Seventy-first  Semi-Annual 

CONFERENCE 


OF  THfi 


CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LATTER= 
DAY  SAINTS. 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  5th,  6th  and 
7th,  1900,  with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
OF  THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL 
UNION. 


tHE  DESERET  NEWS. 


THE 

SATURDAY 
NIGHT 


NEW. 


24  PAGES. 


Profusely  Illustrated  Tbith  Etchings 
and  Half  Tones,  A  Magazine  and 
a  Daily  Newspaper  Combined,  ; 


Sent  to  any  address  for 


v 


$2.00 


A  YEAR. 


To  regular  subscribers  of 
the  Semi-Weekly  News  , 


$1.50 


A  YEAR. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-first  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  opened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.,  Oct. 
5th,  1900: 

Of  the  general  authorities  present 
there  were,  of  the  First  Presidency, 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles — Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthoii 
H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson  and  Reed 
Smoot;  Patriarch  John  Smith;  of  the 
First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeldsted, 
George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric — William 
B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John 
R.  Winder. 

The  conference  opened  by  the  choir 
and  congregation  singing  the  hymn 
which  begins: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy. 

After  the  opening  prayer,  the  choir 
and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  com- 
mencing: 

Redeemer  of  Israel  our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing,  we  call, 
Our  shadow  by  day  and  our  pillar  by 
night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all! 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

Glorious  prospects  of  the  faithful— Necessity  for 
personal  knowledge  as  to  their  source— Phil- 
osophy of  trials— Care  exercised  in  the  selec- 
tion of  presiding  officers— Examples  of  Christ 
and  Job. 

Brethren  and  Sisters,  I  feel  to  rejoice 
greatly  in  having  this  opportunity  of 
meeting  with  you  this  morning  and  to 
deliberate  upon  all  such  things  and 
talk  about  them,  as  may  pertain  to  our 
present  condition  and  secure  our  future 
prospects.  When  this  Gospel— these 
principles  which  we  have  espoused— 
came  to  our  ears  in  the  different  coun- 
tries and  nations  where  they  found  us, 
of  course  they  opened  up  to  us  certain 
prospects— prospects  that  relate  to  the 
present  time,  and  to  present  time  mat- 
ters, of  the  highest  consequence  in  re- 
lation to  our  temporal  salvation;  and 
again,  prospects  in  reference  to  the  fu- 
ture; what  should  be  the  outcome  of 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God; 
what  should  follow;  what  should  be  the 
results  when  we  have  accomplished 
these  things  that  are  required  of  us; 
what  would  be  the  results  in  the  next 
life. 

Now,  so  far  as  regards  our  temporal 
advantages  and  our  temporal  prospects, 
they  certainly  must  be  far  superior  to 
any  that  were  before  us  before  this 
Gospel  reached  us;  before  the  offer  of 
salvation  saluted  our  ears.  In  the  days 
of  Noah  the  Gospel  which  we  have  es- 
poused was  proclaimed  to  the  people  of 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


his  generation,  and  the  same  prospects 
as  are  presented  to  us  were  presented 
to  them,  temporal  advantages,  temporal 
salvation,  and  spiritual  exaltation  and 
glory;  and  the  circumstances  were  of 
that  character  that  every  person  that 
listened  to  the  voice  of  Noah  could  re- 
ceive clear  manifestations,  satisfactory 
knowledge,  that  what  he  said  came 
from  the  Almighty.  Now  when  we  re- 
ceived these  principles  it  was  clear  to  us, 
I  presume,  that  we  actually  received 
assurances,  the  most  perfect  assur- 
ances, that  what  was  said  to  us, 
was  actually  of  the  Lord,  that  the  par- 
ties that  brought  us  these  principles 
were  actually  inspired  from  the  Most 
High.  The  nature  and  character  of  the 
work  that  each  one  would  necessarily 
have  to  perform,  the  circumstances 
that  would  surround  us  and  the  trials 
and  temptations  to  which  we  had  to 
be  exposed,  would  require  a  perfect  un- 
derstanding, not  through  the  teachings 
of  these  individuals  that  proclaimed  to 
us  these  principles,  but  actual  mani- 
festations and  assurances  that  should 
come  from  the  Lord,  either  by  extra- 
ordinary faith  or  by  a  perfect  reception, 
physical  and  spiritual,  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  a  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as 
was  promised  in  former  days  to  those 
that  should  receive  the  Gospel. 

I  dare  say  that  the  people  that  are 
before  me  this  morning  have  learned 
that  it  was  an  absolute  necessity  to 
have  a  perfect  understanding,  and  an 
understanding  that  could  only  come  di- 
rectly from  the  Lord.  It  would  not  be 
satisfactory  simply  to  turn  over  the 
leaves  of  the  New  Testament  and  to 
see  that  these  principles  were  in  ac- 
cordance with  those  preached  by  the 
Apostles  of  old,  but  to  have  this  knowl- 
edge come  directly  to  themselves  from 
the  Lord.  Now,  I  say  this  in  order  that 
if  there  are  any  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
have  not  advanced  to  this  knowledge 
and  can  not  see  and  understand  clearly 
that  they  have  espoused  the  principles 
of  salvation  and  exaltation  and  glory, 
and  that  directly  from  the  Lord,  it  is 
time  they  were  about  receiving  this  in- 
formation. 

"We  are  not  through  with  our  labors 
yet,  although  we  have  got  through  a 
great  many  of  them  that  have  been 
considerable  of  a  trial  to  us,  and  temp- 


tations, perhaps,  have  been  to  some  of 
us  of  a  nature  that  almost  amounted 
to  a  disposition  to  turn  away 
from  the  principles  that  we  had  re- 
ceived. The  trials  and  temptations 
have  been  very  great  to  many  of  our 
people,  and  more  or  less,  perhaps,  to  all 
of  us.  The  Lord  seems  to  require  some 
proof  on  our  part,  something  to  show 
that  He  can  depend  upon  us  when  He 
wants  us  to  accomplish  certain  things 
in  His  interest.  The  reason  is  that  the 
condition  in  which  we  will  be  placed  in 
the  future,  as  time  passes  along,  as 
eternity  approaches,  and  as  we  move 
forward  in  eternity  and  along  the  line 
of  our  existence,  we  shall  be  placed  in 
certain  conditions  that  require  very 
great  sacrifice  in  the  interests  of  hu- 
manity, in  the  interests  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  in  the  interest  of  His  children 
and  our  own  children,  in  generations  to 
come,  in  eternity.  Jesus  Christ  the  Son 
of  God  was  once  placed  in  a  condition 
that  it  required  the  highest  effort  in 
order  to  accomplish  what  was  neces- 
sary for  the  salvation  of  millions  of  the 
children  of  God.  It  required  the  highest 
effort  and  determination  that  had  to  be 
exercised  before  the  Son  of  God  could 
pass  through  the  ordeal,  the  sacrifice 
that  was  necessary. 

I  believe  that  his  Father  had  edu- 
cated him,  had  passed  him  through 
scenes  that  were  of  a  very  serious 
character,  of  great  trials,  and  he  knew 
just  what  he  could  depend  upon  from 
the  facts  that  were  illustrated  and 
shown  by  his  experience.  We  place 
men  here  from  time  to  time  in  positions 
of  presidents  of  Stakes,  as  Bishops  of 
wards.  We  are  called  upon  sometimes 
to  take  into  consideration  whom  we  will 
place  in  this  Stake  or  that  Stake  of 
Zion  to  preside  over  us.  Perhaps  there 
are  fourteen  thousand  members,  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  in  that  Stake,  or  there 
may  be  fifteen  or  twenty  thousand,  and 
the  prosperity  of  the  people  of  that 
Stake,  to  a  certain  extent  anyway,  de- 
pends upon  the  qualification  of  'that 
president. 

How  can  we  determine  in  or- 
der to  make  the  proper  selection? 
How  are  we  to  determine  so  as  to  make 
a  wise  selection,  in  placing  the  respon- 
sibilities upon  a  man  that  we  nronose 
to  take  this  position?    The  people  of 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


3 


the  Stake  are  greatly  concerned;  they 
want  a  good  man;  they  want  a  wise 
man;  they  want  a  man  that  by  night 
and  by  day  will  think  how  he  can  best 
improve  them,  make  them  happy,  place 
them  in  circumstances    that    will  be 
agreeable,  and  advance  them.  "We  look 
around  to  find  a  man  that  we  feel  has 
a  thorough  interest  in  the  people,  and 
that  is  a  wise  and  a  good  man,  and  it 
is  well  that  we  should.    That  is  our 
business— to  look  after  the  interest  of 
the  Saints,  and  to  place  suclvmen  be- 
fore them  to  look  after  their  interests 
as  will  be  faithful  in  their  calling  and 
will  be  unselfish,    and    will  not  spend 
their  time  in  any  other  direction  than 
that  which  pertains  to  the  general  ad- 
vancement of  those  they  are  appointed 
to    look    after.      Is  it  possible  that 
we  sometimes    make    a  mistake  and 
get     the     wrong     man?     Well  you 
perhaps    should  be  the  judges.  But 
I  can  tell  you  one  thing,  surely,  that  we 
use  our  best  efforts  to  find  the  proper 
man.      How  do  we  do  it?       We  send 
somewhere     about     eighteen  hundred 
missionaries  to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
We  keep  about  that  number  of  mission- 
aries in  the  different  nations.  We  ap- 
point men  here  at  home,  we  place  re- 
sponsibilities upon  them,  large  respon- 
sibilities. We  look  over  the  history  of 
these  men.    Perhaps  this  man  was  a 
Bishop.   Well,  how  did  he  act  and  per- 
form his  duties  as  a  Bishop?    Did  he 
devote  himself  to  the  interest  of  the 
people  of  his  ward  or  was  he  trying  to 
make  himself  wealthy?   Was  his  mind 
devoted       to       saving       what  he 
could     for     himself     and     in  en- 
hancing   his      own      individual  in- 
terests   and  that*  of    his    wife  and 
children  and  neglecting  the  interest  of 
the  people  of  his  ward?     How  is  it? 
We     inquire     around.    We    get  the 
history  of  the  man,  his  past  experiences 
He  has  had  several  calls  here  and  there. 
Did  he  answer  those  calls?     Was  he 
called  as  a  missionary  to  leave  his  wife 
and  his  children  and  go  to  the  nations 
to  be  gone  two  years  or  three  years  or 
four  years,  as  the  case  may  be?  And 
did  he  go,  or  did  he  say:  "Oh,  no;  I 
would  like  to  go  very  well,  but  my  cir- 
cumstances are  not  quite  so  pleasing  or 
advantageous  as  they  ought  to  be  un- 
der such  circumstances  in    order  that 


I  might  go;  I  cannot  go  and  leave  my 
family  very  well." 

Did  he  make  these  excuses,  and  how 
has  he  been  all  along  the  path  of  his 
life  for  the  past  few  years  or  for  many 
years  as  the  case  might  be?  We  judge 
the  man  not  always  by  his  looks  or  ap- 
pearance; not  always  by  hearing  him 
preach  a  sermon;  but  we  judge  him  by 
what  he  has  done  or  failed  to  do  in  the 
past.  That  is  just  the  way  the  Lord 
intends  to  do  with  you  or  me 
exactly.  We  will  be  judged  according 
to  what  we  have  done  or  what  we  have 
failed  to  have  done  all  along  the  line  of 
our  experiences.  When  Jesus  was 
placed  in  a  condition  where  acting  in 
propriety  or  otherwise  confronted  him; 
when  he  saw  before  Him  the  cross  and 
the  immediate  prospects  of  being  placed 
upon  it  and  of  his  undergoing  those 
excruciating:  tortures  that  he  had  seen 
others  experiencing,  then  his  nature 
failed  as  it  were  and  he  said:  Father 
if  it  be  possible  that  this  experience  or 
this  cup  pass  from  me,  let  it  pass. 

That  is  the  way  he  told  the  Lord.  But 
notwithsanding,  he  said:  If  this  can- 
not be  done,  Thy  will  be  done,  and  not 
mine.  So  he  was  placed  upon  the  cross 
and  suffered  that  excruciating  torture.. 
Supposing  that  he  had  failed,  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  the  people  of  the 
Lord,  his  sons  and  daughters,  would 
have  failed  to  be  put  into  the  posi- 
tion of  having  the  opportunity  that  you 
and  I  have  today.  They  would  have 
failed  for  a  long  time,  to  say  the  least. 
Of  course  the  provisions  would  have 
been  made  and  the  work  of  the  Al- 
mighty would  have  been  proceeded  with, 
but  there  would  have  been  a  halt  there. 
But  the  Lord  knew  just  what  he  could 
depend  upon,  and  therefore,  he  selected 
that  son  of  His,  our  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  he  has  wrought  out  that 
great  work  of  redemption  for  the  hu- 
man family,  the  living  and  the  dead. 

Now  brethren  and  sisters,  what  have 
these  principles  we  have  espoused  done 
for  us?  Are  you  satisfied?  I  am,  per- 
fectly and  fully  satisfied.  I  have  gone 
through  a  great  many  things  that  were 
very  unpleasant,  far  from  being  agree- 
able, all  along  the  line,  and  I  do  not 
know  how  much  further  or  what  else 
will  be  required  of  me  of  this  charac- 
ter; but  I  am  satisfied  with  what  the 


•1 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  has  done  for  me  and  what  I  ex- 
pect He  will  do  in  regard  to  my  tem- 
poral affairs,  temporal  salvation,  and 
also  in  regard  to  the  future. 

My  hopes  in  reference  to  the  future 
life  are  supremely  grand  and  glor- 
ious, and  I  try  to  keep  these  prospects 
bright  continually;  and  that  is  the 
privilege  and  the  dut"  of  every  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  suppose  I  am  talking  now 
to  some  Latter-day  Saints  that  have 
been  sorely  tried  and  they  have 
thought  sometimes,  perhaps  like  the 
Savior  felt,  that  he  had  no  friends, 
that  his  friends  had  all  gone;  and 
-everything  was  going  wrong,  and  every- 
thing was  disagreeable,  and  his  circum- 
stances were  continuing  to  get  worse 
and  worse,  and  those  that  he  depended 
upon  for  assistance  failed  perhaps  to 
render  the  assistance  expected,  and  all 
that  sort  of  thing.  Likewise  everything 
sometimes  becomes  dark  to  us  and 
we  almost  forget  the  relationship 
that  we  stand  in  to  the  Lord  and  be- 
gin to  feel  as  though  it  was  not  what 
we  expected. 

I  wonder  if  there  are  a  few  here  with- 
in the  sound  of  my  voice  that  have 
feelings  of  this  kind,  like  old  Job  had, 
for  instance.  A  poor  man  who  won- 
dered why  his  children  were  taken  from 
-him;  why  his  herds  were  destroyed 
and  why  his  houses,  his  dwelling,  went 
up  in  flames,  and  why  he  was  left  with- 
out anything.  He  formerly  was  a 
very  wealthy  man,  then  was  left  with- 
out anything.  Well,  his  friends  came 
about  him.  They  were  supposed  to  be 
friends.  They  were  friends  formerly. 
They  came  about  him  and  wanted  to 
show  him  that  these  evils  came  upon 
him  because  he  had  failed  to  do  his  duty 
in  the  past;  because  he  had  committed 
some  sin.  That  was  the  kind  of  ideas 
that  they  communicated  to  him.  But 
there  was  nothing  of  the  kind.  It  was 
not  so.  They  were  vastly  mistaken.  The 
Lord  had  a  certain  position  in  which  He 
sought  to  place  Job  in  the  future  at 
some  future  time  when  years  and  years 
had  rolled  away  perhaps,  and  he  wanted 
to  try  him.  He  wanted  to  educate  him 
so  that  he  would  not  complain,  no  mat- 
ter how  illy  he  thought  himself  treated 
~by  the  Lord.  That  was  a  glorious  trial 
of  Job's  It  has  come  down  in  his- 
tory; his  experiences  and  his  trials,  and 


it  has  been  a  wonderful  consolation  to 
the  people  of  the  Lord  to  read  the  his- 
tory of  his  experiences  and  his  trials 
and  how  well  he  passed  through  them. 

The  religion  that  we  have  received, 
the  principles  of  exaltation  and  glory 
that  you  and  I  have  received,  bring 
upon  us  persecution,  or  else  they  are 
not  those  principles  which  we  thought 
they  were.  They  bring  upon  us  trou- 
ble upon  the  right  hand  and  upon  the 
left,  but  we  should  seek  to  be  calm  and 
cool  as  Job  learned  to  be  calm  and  cool 
under  circumstances  of  the  most 
uphappy  character.  We  should  learn 
to  do  this  and  there  are  things 
that  are  provided  for  us  by  which  we 
can  learn  this.  Think  now  of  how 
much  worse  you  and  I  might  be,  and 
then  think  of  what  superior  blessings 
we  actually  possess.  We  know  that  in 
the  future  after  we  have  passed 
through  this  life,  we  will  then 
have  our  wives  and  our  children 
with  us.  We  will  have  our 
bodies  glorified,  made  free  from  every 
sickness  and  distress,  and  rendered 
most  beautiful.  There  is  nothing  more 
beautiful  to  look  upon  than  a  resur- 
rected man  or  woman.  There  is  noth- 
ing grander  that  I  can  imagine 
that  a  man  can  possess  than  a  resur- 
rected body.  There  is  no  Latter-day 
Saint  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  but 
that  certainly  has  this  prospect  of  com- 
ing forth  in  the  morning  of  the  first 
resurrection  and  being  glorified,  exalted 
in  the  presence  of  God,  having  the  priv- 
ilege of  talking  with  our  Father  as  we 
talk  with  our  earthly  father. 

What  a  glorious  thing!  You  will 
know  no  prison  walls,  your  friends 
turning  away  from  you,  your  being  dis- 
possessed of  your  property,  being  driven 
from  your  home,  being  cast  into  prison, 
being  defamed.  These  things  do  not 
hurt  you  one  particle.  They  do  not  de- 
stroy your  prospects,  which  are  still 
glorious  before  you.  And  then  we 
should  understand  that  the  Lord  has 
provided,  when  the  days  of  trouble  come 
upon  the  nations,  a  place  for  you  and 
me,  and  we  will  be  preserved  as  Noah 
was  preserved,  not  in  an  ark,  but  we 
will  be  preserved  by  going  into  these 
principles  of  union  by  which  we  can 
accomplish  the  work  of  the  Lord  and 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


S 


surround  ourselves  with  those  things 
that  will  preserve  us  from  the  difficul- 
ties that  are  now  coming  upon  the 
world,  the  judgments  of  the  Lord.  We 
can  see,  as  we  read  in  the  newspapers, 
that  they  are  coming  upon  the  nations 
of  the  ungodly;  and  they  would  have 
been  upon  us  if  we  had  stayed  among 
the  nations,  if  the  Lord  had  not  inclined 
our  ears  and  brought  salvation  to  us, 
we  would  have  been  as  they  are. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  to  say 
God  bless  you.  Here  are  my  counselors. 
We  are  one.  We  are  united.  We  do 
not  quarrel  with  each  other.  We  speak 
well  of  one  another  because  we  ought 
to  do  it,  and  we  think  we  are  worthy  of 
being  well  spoken  of  by  each  other. 
And  here  we  have  twelve  men  sitting  in 
front  with  us  —  Twelve  Apostles, 
There  are  many  of  these  that  you  know. 
You  know  them  from  hearing  what  they 
have  accomplished.  You  have  a  per- 
sonal acquaintance  with  some  of  us. 
Now  they  are  with  us  heart  and  soul. 
We  are  united  together.  We  do  not 
quarrel  with  each  other.  We  do  not 
slander  one  another,  but  we  go  where 
counsel  requires  and  we  are  heart  and 
soul  together.  What  for?  Not  to  make 
ourselves  rich,  not  to  make  ourselves 
wealthy,  but  to  see  what  we  can  ac- 
complish in  the  interests  of  the  people, 
and  we  are  laboring  continually  to  see 
what  we  can  do.  We  come  together 
every  week  and  we  talk  about  what  we 
can  do  for  the  people.  What  can  we  do 
for  these  forty-two  or  forty-three 
Stakes  of  Zion?  Are  some  of  the  pre- 
siding Elders,  some  of  the  presidents 
of  these  Stakes,  getting  too  old  to  ad- 
minister to  the  people?  Are  some  of 
them  neglecting  their  interests?  We 
talk  these  things  over.  We  study  and 
consider  them.  We  try  to  ascertain 
what  they  are  doing  and  what  their 
feelings  are  and  how  they  manifest 
them  in  the  presence  of  the  people.  Are 
they  working  for  themselves?  Are  they 
trying  to  see  how  much  money  they  can 
get  into  this  bank  or  the  other,  or  are 
they  engaged  heart  and  soul  in  doing 
what  should  be  done  in  their  respective 
responsibilities?  Well,  we  are  not  idle 
in  these  things. 

You  will  have  a  number  of  speakers 
here     during     this     conference,  you 


will  probably  have  in  the  neighborhood 
of  Twenty  speeches  here.  When 
the  brethren  arise  to  speak  yovt. 
should  ask  the  Lord  to  let  them 
say  something  that  you  want  to  know, 
that  they  may  suggest  something  ta- 
you  that  will  be  of  some  advantage. 
If  you  have  any  desire  to  know  certain 
matters  that  you  do  not  understand, 
pray  that  these  brethren  in  their  talks 
may  say  something  that  shall  enlighten 
your  mind  in  reference  to  that  which 
troubles  you,  and  we  will  have  a  grand 
and  glorious  Conference,  a  better  one 
than  we  have  ever  had  before.  Strange 
as  it  may  appear,  our  last  Conference 
always  seems  the  best,  and  may  this  be 
the  case;  and  you  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  your  hearts  rise  up  to  the  Lord  and 
exercise  faith  while  our  brethren  are 
talking  to  you.  We  will  not  be  disap- 
pointed, and  you  will  not  go  home,  you 
will  not  retire  from  this  Conference, 
without  feeling  you  have  been  greatly 
and  abundantly  blessed.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

Spirit  of  Union  among  the  Presidency  and  Twelve- 
—Indebtedness  is  bondage — Labor  should  be 
created  for  the  young— Beneficent  results  of 
tithe- paying— Avoid  Procrastination. 

I  am  truly  grateful  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  this  privilege  of  speaking 
at  our  Semi-annual  conference  to  the 
Saints  of  the  Most  High,  and  I  shall 
claim  an  interest  in  the  opening  prayer 
made  by  Brother  Young,  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  will  attend  those  who  ad- 
dress this  congregation.  I  shall  also- 
ask  you,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  give  me  your  faith  and  prayers,  as 
requested  by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord; 
for  I  have  had  experience  enough  in 
speaking  to  the  Saints  to  know  that 
without  their  faith  and  prayers  and  the 
assistance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I 
can  say  nothing  that  will  be  of  interest 
to  the  people.  I  have  no  desire  in  my 
heart  to  say  aught  this  morning  but 
that  will  be  for  the  benefit  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  of  the  opinion  that  there  is  not 
a  soul  present  in  this  vast  audience  but 
can  say  that  the  Lord  has  truly  blessed 
them  in  more  ways  than  one  since  our 
last  conference.  I  am  thankful  that 
the  principles  of  the  Church  to  which 
we  belong  are  so  broad  that  they  not 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


only  cover  our  spiritual  welfare,  but  ex- 
tend farther  and  cover  our  temporal 
welfare.  As  President  Snow  referred 
this  morning'  to  our  material  interests, 
I  wished  to  myself  that  the  people  of 
this  Church  knew  the  true  feelings  and 
desires  of  the  Presidency  and  Twelve 
Apostles  of  this  Church  with  regard  to 
the  material  interests  of  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church.  I  bear  testimony 
to  you  concerning  what  President  Snow 
said  in  regard  to  the  unity  that  exists 
among  the  Presidency  of  this  Church 
and  the  Twelve  Apostles.  Unity  and 
love  truly  exist  with  them,  and  I  would 
that  the  same  spirit  extended  to  every 
member  of  the  Church.  My  belief  is 
that  if  that  unity  and  love  existed 
among  all  the  people,  together  with  a 
determination  to  do  only  that  which 
God  requires,  the  power  of  the  Church 
and  of  the  members  thereof  would  be 
so  far-reaching  that  all  hell  and  the 
devil  himself  could  have  no  power 
over  this  organization.  I  do  not  believe 
that  the  love,  union  and  determination 
of  the  Presidency  and  Twelve  were  ever 
greater  since  the  Church  was  organized 
than  at  the  present  time.  Our  desire  is 
to  do  nothing  but  that  will  advance  the 
interests  of  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of 
God.  We  want  the  people  to  be  pre- 
pared for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God 
— which  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  nearer  than  many  of  us  an- 
ticipate. 

I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  be  prayerful  and  humble,  and  to  seek 
the  same  spirit  that  the  Presidency  and 
the  Apostles  have;  and  I  promise  you 
that  you  shall  have  a  testimony  that 
they  are  working  for  your  interest  and 
for  the  advancement  6f  the  Church  of 
God  upon  this  earth.  The  quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  visit  every  Stake 
in  the  Church.  They  go  into  the  homes 
of  the  people;  they  listen,  not  only  to 
the  complaints  of  the  people,  but  also 
to  the  desires  of  the  Saints,  and  they 
know  the  true  feelings  of  their  hearts, 
they  know  their  virtues  and  their 
short-comings.  I  do  not  believe,  there- 
fore, that  there  are  any  better  capable 
of  judging  as  to  what  the  members  of 
this  Church  require  than  the  Apostles 
and  the  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
Moreover,  they  labor  to  this  end,  to 
advance  not   only   the   spiritual  wel- 


fare of  the  Saints,  but  also 
their  temporal  interests.  There  is 
scarcely  a.  day  passes  without  some  of 
them  meeting  together  to  consider  mat- 
ters of  great  importance  to  the  people, 
and  among  them  none  greater  than  the 
salvation  of  our  youth.  These  ques- 
tions are  talked  over  and  the  brethren 
become  familiar  with  and  instructed 
regarding  them,  and  then  they  go  forth 
to  teach  the  people  how  to  avoid  many 
conditions  and  evils  that  are  existing, 
some  of  which  have  been  so  trying  to 
the  souls  of  the  Later-day  Saints. 

I  desire  now  to  mention  one  thing 
that  has  brought  sorrow  to  many  a 
home,  and  that  is,  so  many  Latter-day 
Saints  running  in  debt  and  not  know- 
ing how  to  get  out  of  it.  It  is  my  hope 
and  desire  that  the  warning  which  has 
been  sounded  among  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  for  the  last  year  or  more,  advising 
the  Saints  to  keep  out  of  debt,  and 
those  who  are  in  debt  to  get  out  as  soon 
as  possible,  will  be  heeded  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints;  for  I  tell  you  that  to  an 
honest  man  there  is  no  bondage  con- 
trolled by  human  laws  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth  greater  than  the  bondage 
of  debt.  I  trust  that  the  note  of  warn- 
ing which  has  been  given  by  the  Apos- 
tles in  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  the 
quarterly  conferences,  will  be  heeded 
by  those  who  are  in  debt  and  by  all 
people.  Ask  God's  blessings  upon  your 
efforts  in  this  direction,  and  at  the 
same  time  remember  the  Lord  in  your 
tithes  and  your  offerings,  and  He-  will 
bless  you  and  so  shape  your  circum- 
stances that  relief  will  come  unto  you 
who  are  in  debt.  And  when  you  are 
relieved,  do  not  go  in  debt  any  more. 
The  improvement  made  by  the  people 
in  this  regard  during  the  past  six 
months  is  marvelous,  from  all  I  hear, 
and  I  pray  God  that  this  improvement 
will  continue  until  the  time  shall  come 
when  not  only  the  Church  will  be  ab- 
solutely out  of  debt,  but  when  each  of 
the  members  of  the  Church  will  be  able 
to  say,  "I  owe  no  man  a  dollar  that  I 
cannot  pay."  Then  when  we  are  in 
this  position,  whatever  call  may  be 
made  upon  us  or  wherever  we  may  be 
called  to  go  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
we  can  say  that  we  are  ready  to  go  and 
fulfill  the  call  without  being  under  ob- 
ligations to  anyone;  we  can  perform 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


7 


the  duty  that  God  requires  at  our 
hands,  because  we  are  free.  How  much 
better  this  would  be  than  to  be  in  the 
position  that  some  of  the  brethren  are 
in  at  present.  President  Snow  report- 
ed this  morning  that  some  who  were 
called  on  missions  replied  that  they  had 
a  desire  to  go,  but  their  circumstances 
were  such  that  they  really  could  not 
leave.  These  "buts"  are  put  in  a  great 
many  times  when  they  have  no  right 
to  be  put  in  by  men  holding  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God,  who  are  sup- 
posed to  be  minute  men  and  ready  to 
go  anywhere  when  called. 

I  also  desire  this  morning  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  early  days  of  this  great 
commonwealth  of  ours.     Allow  me  to 
refer  you  to  the  memory  of  that  great 
man,  President  Brigham  Young,  and  to 
some  of  the  fundamental  principles  per- 
taining to  our  temporal  welfare  which 
he  taught  so  strongly.     One  thing  that 
he  advocated  long  and  loud  was  that 
the  people  should  place  themselves  in 
a  position  to  create  labor  for  their  sons 
and  daughters.    Are  we  doing  this?  I 
am  afraid  that  we  have  almost  forgot- 
ten that  there  was  such  a  principle  ad- 
vanced.    Who  taught  home  manufac- 
ture   more    than    President  Brigham 
Young?     Who   preached   oftener  and 
stronger  and  put  his  money  into  those 
institutions   more   than   did  President 
Brigham  Young?   We  are  raising  young 
men  by  the  thousands  in  this  fair  State 
of  ours,  and  do  we  ever  stop  to  think 
what  they  are  going  to  do  for  a  living? 
I  hope  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
will  think  of  this,  and  that  we  will,  so 
far  as  possible,  establish  such  industries 
here  as  will  give  employment  to  our 
youne-  men  and  young  women.    I  also 
feel  that  the  fathers  and  mothers  of 
this  Church  should  begin  to  realize  the 
importance  of  instructing  their  boys  to 
prepare  themselves  for  future  life  by 
learning  some  kind  of  trade.   Our  boys, 
as  a  rule— and  I  think  that  the  parents 
are  at  fault  in  many  instances — seem  to 
drift  along  without  caring  anything 
about   the   responsibilities  of  life,  or 
thinking  of  how  they  are  goiner  to  ful- 
fill the  requirements  that  will  be  made 
of  them  as  husbands  and  fathers.  They 
do  not  stop  to  consider  these  things.  I 
want  to  say  that  this  is  not  an  un- 
developed country  now  as  it  used  to  be, 
not  has  it  unlimited  homesteads  for  all 


new  comers,  and  we  ought  to  begin  . 
to  think  what  our  sons  and  daughters, 
especially  our  sons,  are  going  to  do  for 
a  living  in  the  future.  Take  almost 
every  institution  that  is  started  now  by 
the  people  here,  where  skilled  labor  is 
required,  and  do  we  find  Utah  boys  at 
the  head  of  the  different  departments? 
Take,  for  example,  the  Provo  Woolen 
Mills.  Can  I  get  a  Utah  boy  to  start 
in  the  dye  room  and  learn  the  trade, 
and  stick  to  it  until  he  knows  every 
requirement  of  this  department?  No, 
I  cannot.  The  result  is,  we  are  com- 
pelled to  send  east  to  get  a  man  who 
has  lived  in  a  community  where  it  was 
absolutely  necessary  for  him  to  learn 
every  detail  of  the  business,  in  order 
to  take  charge  of  that  department, 
and  it  is  so  with  other  departments.  I 
hope  we  will  begin,  as  fathers  and 
mothers,  to  see  our  responsibility  in  re- 
gard to  our  children,  and  take  care  that 
they  learn  a  trade.  So  far  as  I  am 
personally  concerned,  if  I  were  pos- 
sessed of  millions  of  money  I  would  de- 
sire every  son  of  mine  to  have  a  trade 
at  his  fingers'  ends,  so  that  if  every- 
thing were  swept  away  from  him  he 
could  fall  back  on  his  trade  and  make 
an  honest  living.  I  wish  that  every  son 
in  this  fair  State,  and  especially  in  this 
Church,  was  in  this  position. 

I  had  a  young  man  come  to  me  a 
short  time  ago  and  ask  for  an  explana- 
tion of  some  remarks  he  had  heard 
Brother  Grant  make  concerning  tithing. 
He  said  that  at  a  meeting  the  other 
day  he  had  heard  Brother  Grant  ex- 
press the  belief  that  a  man  who  paid 
his  tithing  honestly— one-tenth  of  all 
God  gave  him— would  be  better  pre- 
pared to  meet  his  obligations  with  tjf.e 
nine-tenths  and  it  would  go  further 
than  the  whole,  and  he  did  not  believe 
it.  He  said  he  came  to  me  as  one  who 
had  studied  financial  matters,  and 
would  like  to  have  me  explain  how 
ninety  cents  could  go  farther  than  one 
dollar.  I  thought  a  minute  or  two  and 
then  decided  to  take  his  own  case  for 
an  example.  I  asked  him  if  he  would 
object  to  my  taking  his  own  case  to 
prove  to  him  the  truth  of  what  Brother 
Grant  had  said.  Certainly  not,  he  said. 
All  right,  said  I,  I  will  prove  to  you  by 
your  own  acts  that  what  Brother  Grant 
said  was  an  absolute  fact,  and  I  be- 
lieve it  is  so  in  nine  hundred  and  ninety- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


nine  cases  out  of  a  thousand,  if  not  in 
every  case.  I  then  remarked  to  him, 
"I  was  going-  to  a  conference  not  long 
ago,  and  I  saw  you  out  driving  on  the 
Sabbath  with  a  two-seated  rig,  at  a 
time  when  you  ought  to  have  been  at 
meeting."  "Yes,"  he  said,  "I  remem- 
ber." "What  did  you  pay  for  that  rig?" 
I  asked.  "It  only  cost  me  four  dollars," 
he  replied.  "What  are  vou  getting  a 
month?"  "Forty-five  dollars  a 
month."  "Then,"  said  I,  "this  would 
almost  have  paid  your  tithing 
on  your  wages  for  that  month  and  you 
could  have  claimed  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  instead  of  breaking  the  law  of 
God  pertaining  to  the  Sabbath."  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  law  of  tithing  is  not  a 
question  of  dollars  and  cents  alone.  I 
believe  that  the  man  who  pays  his  hon- 
est tithing  to  God  will  not  only  be 
blessed  by  God  himself,  but  that  the 
nine-tenths  will  reach  farther  than 
would  the  ten-tenths  if  he  did  not  obey 
that  law;  for  the  man  who  believes  in 
the  law  of  tithes  and  offerings,  be- 
lieves also  in  the  other  requirements 
made  by  God  of  him,  and  he  does  not 
spend  money  in  breaking  the  Sabbath 
day,  nor  in  going  to  places  where  his 
very  soul  is  in  danger  of  partaking  of 
things  that  are  not  good  for  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  to  receive.  I  testify  as 
Brother  Grant  testified;  I  testified  to 
that  young  man  that  I  believed  what 
Brother  Grant  had  said,  and  he  was 
compelled  to  say  that  he  had  never 
thought  of  it  in  that  light  before. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  thou- 
sands of  dollars  spent  by  the  people  in 
breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom  more 
each  year  than  all  your  cash  tithing 
amounts  to.  This  vast  sum  is  sent  out 
of  this  State  and  for  what?  Not  for 
the  necessities  of  life,  but  for  articles 
the  use  of  which  cause  the  people  to 
break  a  commandment  that  God  has 
given  us.  Let  us  remind  ourselves  of 
the  positions  that  we  hold.  Let  us  un- 
derstand what  we  are— that  we  are 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  that 
we  are  the  children  of  God,  that  we 
have  a  special  work  to  do  here,  and 
that  the  Priesthood  which  has  been 
given  us  has  been  given  for  a  purpose. 
We  should  realize  the  importance  of, 
this    authority,    and  labor   to  the  end 


that  we  will  not  do  anything  contrary 
to  the  spirit  of  God  or  the  laws  of  thi9 
Church. 

There  is  another  thing  with  our 
young  people,  as  well  as  the  people  gen- 
erally, that  I  desire  to  call  you  atten- 
tion to  and  that  is,  procrastination — 
putting  off  till  tomorrow  what  we 
ought  to  do  today,  and  thinking  that  we 
will  live  our  religion  a  little  better  next 
year.  The  old  saying  that  to  travel  by 
the  road  of  bye  and  bye  will  reach  the 
home  of  never,  is  just  as  true  today  as 
it  ever  was.  Let  us  live  our  religion 
today.  Let  us  do  the  duty  of  today. 
Let  us  pay  our  tithes  that  we  owe  to- 
day. Let  us  do  everything  required  of 
us  today,  and  not  put  it  off  for  some 
future  time. 

My  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
God;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  Living  God;  that  his  successors 
down  to  and  including  President  Snow 
have  been  called  of  God,  and  that  they 
have  given  the  people  the  word  of  God. 
I  hope  and  trust  that  this  same  testi- 
mony will  be  so  strong  in  the  hearts  of 
every  member  of  this  Church,  and  es- 
pecially in  the  hearts  of  the  young  men 
and  young  women,  that  no  matter  what 
trial  or  temptation  may  come  in  our 
way,  we  can  say,  Thy  will,  O  Father, 
be  done,  and  not  mine.  If  we  get  in 
this  position  this  Church  will  grow  and 
increase,  and  we  will  be  blessed,  not 
only  spiritually,  but  in  every  way  that 
God  can  bless  a  son  or  daughter  of  His. 
To  this  end  I  ask  God's  blessings  upon 
the  Church  and  upon  the  people,  and 
may  peace  and  plenty  be  yours  forever, 
with  a  glorious  salvation  in  the  king- 
dom of  God,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Growth  of  the  spirit  of  Union— Building  of  Temples 
and  vicarious  work  for  the  dead— Thoughts 
and  desires  of  the  Paints  should  be  directed 
to  their  ancestors—  Valuable  suggestions  up- 
on this  subject. 

Brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  greatly 
rejoiced  in  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  to  us  this  morning,  and  in  the 
spirit  of  union  alluded  to  by  President 
Snow.  I  can  testify  that,  so  far  as  I 
have  been  able  to  observe,  the  most 
perfect  union  exists  among  the  First 
Presidency  and  Twelve;'  and  so  far  as 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


9 


my  observation  has  gone,  I  can  also  tes- 
tify that  there  is  a  spirit  of  union  and 
harmony  among  the  First  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies,  and  with  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric,  and  with  the  Patriarch, 
and  with  very  many,  if  not  all,  of  the 
Stake  presidencies,  the  Bishops  and 
counselors  of  wards,  and  the  presi- 
dencies of  quorums.  And  I  believe  that 
this  spirit  of  oneness  and  union  is  grow- 
ing upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There- 
in is  the  strength  of  this  Church. 

There  is  a  subject  that  is  very  near  to 
my  heart,  and  I  would  like  to  say  a  few 
words  upon  it  this  morning,  if  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  shall  give  me  freedom 
of  speech;  otherwise  I  should  wish  that 
it  might  be  taken  entirely  from  my 
mind,  because  I  desire  to  speak  to  the 
Saints  only  that  which  the  Lord  desires 
I  should  speak,  and  which  will  be  most 
suitable  for  the  occasion.  I  will  first 
read  from  an  address  to  the  Saints  by 
the  mighty  prophet  of  these  latter 
times,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  These 
were  his  words: 

And  again,  verily  thus  saith  the  Lord, 
let  the  work  of  my  Temple,  and  all  the 
works  which  I  have  appointed  unto  you, 
be  continued  on  and  not  cease;  and  let 
your  diligence,  and  your  perseverance, 
and  patience,  and  your  works  be  re- 
doubled, and  you  shall  in  no  wise  lose 
your  reward,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 
And  if  they  persecute  you,  so  persecut- 
ed they  the  prophets  and  righteous  men 
that  were  before  you.  For  all  this  there 
is  a  reward  in  heaven. 

And  again,  I  give  unto  you  a  word  in 
relation  to  the  baptism  for  your  dead. 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you 
concerning  your  dead:  When  any  of 
you  are  baptized  for  your  dead,  let  there 
be  a  recorder,  and  let  him  be  eye-wit- 
ness of  your  baptisms;  let  him  hear 
with  his  ears,  that  he  may  testify 
of  a  truth,  saith  the  Lord: 

That  in  all  your  recordings  it  may 
be  recorded  in  heaven;  whatsoever  you 
bind  on  earth,  may  be  bound  in  heaven; 
whatsoever  you  loose  on  earth,  may  be 
loosed  in  heaven; 

For  I  am  about  to  restore  many 
things  to  the  earth,  pertaining  to  the 
Priesthood,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts." 

In  another  place: 

"Now  the  nature  of  this  ordinance 
consists  in  the  power  of  the  Priesthood, 
by  the  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ, 
wherein  it  is  granted,  that  whatsoever 
you  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in 
heaven,  and  whatsoever  you  loose  on 
earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  Or, 
in  other  words,  taking  a  different  view 


of  the  translation,  whatsoever  you  re- 
cord on  earth  shall  be  recorded  in 
heaven;  and  whatsoever  you  do  not 
record  on  earth,  shall  not  be  recorded  in 
heaven;  for  out  of  the  books  shall  your 
dead  be  judged,  according  to  their  own 
works,  whether  they  themselves  have 
attended  to  the  ordinances  in  their  own 
propria  persona,  or  by  the  means  of 
their  own  agents,  according  to  the  or- 
dinance which  God  has  prepared  for 
their  salvation  from  before  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world,  according  to  the 
records  which  they  have  kept  con- 
cerning their  dead. 

It  may  seem  to  some  to  be  a  very 
bold  doctrine  that  we  talk  of — a  power 
which  records  or  binds  on  earth,  and 
binds  in  heaven.  Nevertheless  in  all 
ages  of  the  world,  whenever  the  Lord 
has  given  a  dispensation  of  the  Priest- 
hood to  any  man  by  actual  revelation, 
or  any  set  of  men,  this  power  has  al- 
ways been  given.  Hence,  whatsoever 
those  men  did  in  authority,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  and  did  it  truly  and  faith- 
fully, and  kept  a  proper  and  faithful 
record  of  the  same,  it  became  a  law  on 
earth,  and  in  heaven,  and  could  not 
be  annulled  according  to  the  decree  of 
the  great  Jehovah.  This  is  a  faithful 
saying!     Who  can  bear  it? 

And  again,  for  the  precedent,  Mat- 
thew xvi,  18,  19,  "And  I  also  say  unto 
thee,  that  thou  art  Peter:  and  upon 
this  rock  I  will  build  my  Church;  and 
the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it;  and  I  will  give  unto  thee 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth 
shall  be  bound  in  heaven;  and  whatso- 
ever thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be 
loosed  in  heaven." 

Are  not  these  most  glorious  words, 
my  brethren  and  sisters?  Even  in 
those  early  days  of  the  Church  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  exercised 
very  greatly  concerning  the  temples  of 
the  Lord,  so  much  so,  that  the  word  of 
the  Lord  came  to  him,  and  from  him 
to  the  people,  that  they  must  not  cease 
the  work  of  His  temple,  and  all  the 
works  which  He  had  appointed.  Spe- 
cial stress  was  laid  on  this  subject  of 
the  temple.  The  spirit  of  temple-work 
has  rested  down  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  from  that  day  until  this,  and  I 
doubt  not  will  rest  upon  them  with  great 

power  from  now  until  the  morning  of 
the  resurrection,  and  from  the  morning 
of  the  resurrection  until  the  thousand 
years  of  the  Millennium  have  expired. 
This  spirit  will  grow  stronger  and 
brighter  with  this  people.  Was  it  not 
upon  President  Young  and  the  Pio- 
neers? Almost  the  first  words  he  ut- 
tered concerning  this  land  were  made 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


upon  this  block,  when,  striking  his  cane 
upon  the  ground,  he  said,  "Here  we  will 
build  a  temple  of  God."  How  glorious^ 
ly  that  prediction  has  been  fulfilled! 
That  Temple  has  been  erected,  though 
he  did  not  live  to  see  its  completion— 
a  monument  to  the  faith,  the  determi- 
nation and  the  good  works  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Not  only  is  there  a 
Temple  on  this  block,  but  there  is  one 
at  St.  George,  one  at  Manti,  and  one  at 
Lo-an.  And  shall  we  cease  building 
Temples?  No;  other  Temples  will  be 
built.    There  is  a  reason  for  this. 

Strangers  come  into  our  midst,  and 
they  gaze  upon  the  Temple.  In  many 
instances  they  say  it  is  a  magnificent 
building,  a  great  accomplishment  to 
have  been  commenced  in  the  early  days 
of  the  settlement  of  this  country  and 
to  have  been  carried  on  at  such  vast  ex- 
pense until  finally  completed.  It  cer- 
tainly was  a  great  accomplishment. 
But,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  value 
of  that  building  is  not  in  its  outward 
appearance,  not  in  the  expense  that 
has  been  put  in  it,  not  in  the  beauty  of 
its  architecture,  nor  in  the  richness  of 
its  furnishings.  The  value  of  that 
Temple  is  in  the  ordinances  which  are 
performed  therein  for  the  living  and  the 
dead. 

The  keys  of  this  great  power  of  bind- 
ing and  sealing,  referred  to  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  with  us. 
That  power  breaks  down  the  barriers 
of  the  grave.  By  it  both  the  living  and 
the  dead  are  made  to  stand  before  the 
Lord  as  if  there  were  no  such  thing 
as  mortal  time.  Moreover,  the  dead 
are  made  equal  with  the  living. 
Glorious  thought!  Do  we  not  see  that 
God  is  no  respecter  of  persons?  The 
man  who  lived  upon  earth  in  a  time 
when  the  light  of  the  Gospel  had  been 
extinguished,  and  who  therefore  lived  in 
ignorance  of  the  Gospel,  will  not  be 
consigned  to  endless  misery  because 
he  did  not  accept  an  opportunity  that 
never  came  to  him,  but  the  mercy  and 
justice  of  God  will  reach  out  to  that 
man  and  he  will  have  the  opportunity 
in  the  other  life.  Therein  is  the  virtue 
and  force  of  the  binding  and  sealing 
power.  It  reaches  into  the  spirit  world 
to  every  soul,  no  matter  how  humble  or 
obscure  that  soul  has  been  on  earth. 
The^  light  of  the  Gospel  will  break  in 


upon  him,  and  there  will  be  a  time  ip. 
the  other  life  for  repentance  and  refor- 
mation. Then  shall  the  people  of  the 
earth  go  forth  in  the  temples  of  God 
and  do  a  vicarious  work  for  those  be- 
hind the  veil,  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world  has  done  a  vicarious  work  for  us 
all.  We  will  taste  of  the  fruits  of  His 
great  work  in  our  salvation;  so  will  the 
dead  receive  the  good  fruits  of  our 
work  in  their  behalf  in  the  temples  of 
God. 

Is  it  not  time,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  our  minds  should  run  back  and  be 
interested  in  the  fate  and  condition  of 
our  ancestors?  Shall  we  not  be  inter- 
ested in  every  soul  that  has  passed 
away?  Must_  not  the  chain  be  made 
complete,  and  the  dead  be  connected 
with  the  living,  and  the  living  with  the 
dead?  Otherwise,  we  shall  be  rejected 
as  a  church;  for  the  Apostle  has  told 
us  that  we  without  them  cannot  be 
made  perfect,  nor  they  without  us. 

Some  thoughts  have  come  to  my  mind 
in  relation  to  this  great  and  glorious 
subject,  and  these  thoughts  have  rela- 
tion to  the  missionary  work  of  this 
Church.  We  are  calling  upon  many 
able-bodied  young  men  to  go  forth  and 
proclaim  the  Gospel  of  salvation  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  This  glorious  duty 
and  privilege  is  today  resting  upon  the 
young  men  of  Israel.  But  there 
are  many  who  are  not  in  a  position  to 
accept  a  call  of  this  kind.  Many  are 
deeply  engrossed  in  the  affairs  of  life  in 
a  way  perchance  that  they  cannot  be 
spared  to  take  upon  them  this  great  re- 
sponsibility. Then  there  are  those  who 
are  so  advanced  in  years  that  it  would 
not  be  wisdom  for  them  to  go  forth  and 
proclaim  the  Gospel.  Must  it  be  said  of 
them  that  they  shall  be  denied  the  priv- 
ilege of  becoming  saviors  upon  Mount 
Zion,  because  of  the  infirmities  of  age 
and  the  engrossing  cares  of  life?  No,  it 
shall  not  be  so  said.  There  is  a  chance 
for  them.  If  they  cannot  go  forth  into 
the  world  to  win  souls  unto  Christ,  let 
them  go  forth  into  the  temples  of  God 
and  spend  a  portion  of  their  time  in 
working  for  the  salvation  of  the  dead. 
I  believe  that  the  soul  of  one  who  is 
dead  is  just  as  precious  in  the  sight  of 
God  as  the  soul  of  one  who  is  living. 
Need  the  father  say  to  his  family, 
"There-is  not  rmich-.ojpportunity  now-for 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


11 


me  to  do  good;  my  days  of  usefulness 
are  past."  No;  your  days  of  usefulness 
are  still  with  you;  your  opportunities 
are  still  present;  go  forth  and  perform 
this  great  labor. 

But  it  Will  be  said  by  many  in  the 
Church  that  their  employment  or  their 
business  connections  are  such  that  they 
cannot  give  any  time  to  temple  work. 
What  shall  be  done  in  such  cases?  Men 
are  spending  their  whole  time,  not  alone 
in  providing  for  themselves  and  their 
families  the  comforts  of  life,  but  to  ac- 
cumulate means  and  build  up  a  fortune. 
This  is  being  done  by  hundreds  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints;  for  God  is  blessing  and 
multiplying  His  goodness  upon  the  peo, 
pie,  and  the  windows  of  heaven  are. 
opened  unto  us,  until  many  are  becom- 
ing rich  in  this  world's  goods.  Is  it  not 
so?  If  you  do  not  believe  it,  go  to  some 
of  the  Stake  conferences  and  see  the 
expensive  vehicles  that  are  tied  all 
around  the  meeting  house.  Do  people 
walk  to  meeting  any  more?  Not  except 
they  live  within  a  half  a  block  of  it  or 
so.  If  they  live  a  mile  or  a  mile  and  a 
half  away,  they  never  think  of  walking. 
And  they  do  not  need  to 
walk;  for  God  has  blessed  them 
with  horses  and  carriages, 
by  means  of  which  they  can  ride  to 
meeting  in  comfort.  They  are  being 
blessed  in  all  their  affairs  and  multi- 
plied exceedingly,  until  it  has  come  to 
that  condition  that  some  of  our 
brethren  in  the  Church  hardly  know 
what  to  do  with  their  means. 

The  question  with  them  is.  Where 
shall  we  invest  our  riches?  Put  money 
in  the  sugar  factory?  Yes,  by  all 
means,  because  it  is  a  good  investment; 
it  pays  a  good  dividend.  It  did  not 
pay  a  good  dividend  when  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church  were  urging  the 
people  to  take  hold  of  the  industry 
and  contribute  of  their  means  to  estab- 
lish it.  They  could  not  see  it  then; 
but  now  they  can  see  it,  and  sugar 
stock  can  hardly  be  purchased  at  pres- 
ent, it  is  so  desirable.  However,  as  I 
was  saying,  the  people  hardly  know 
where  to  put  their  savings. 

Now,  I  want  to  tell  the  men  of 
means  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  of 
a  good  investment;  where  they  can 
place  some  of  their  means    to  bring 


them  in  a  hundred  per  cent.  Find  me 
an  investment  in  this  country  today 
that  pays  twelve  per  cent,  or  perhaps 
fifteen  per  cent,  and  I  will  point  out 
to  you  a  most  splendid  enterprise.  But 
this  investment  that  I  allude  to  will 
pay  one  hundred  per  cent,  and  never 
fail.  What  is  it?  Lay  up  some  of 
your  treasures  in  heaven.  Invest  with 
the  Lord.  Put  some  of  your  means  in- 
to His  temple. 

If  you  are  so  busily  employed  in 
looking  after  your  material  interests, 
which  are  so  vast  and  varied  that  it 
takes  all  your  time,  send  your  son  to 
the  temple,  and  support  him  while  he 
works  there  for  you.  If  you  have  no 
son,  perhaps  you  have  a  good  neighbor, 
a  man  of  God,  who  has  no  means  of  his 
own  and  no  employment;  send  him  to 
the  temple,  and  provide  well  for  him 
while  he  is  there;  look  after  his  bodily 
wants,  and  let  him  work  for  your  dead 
and  save  your  ancestors. 

Perhaps  you  will  tell  me  that  you 
have  no  list  of  your  ancestors;  you 
have  not  even  a  single  name. 
I  take  it  that  that  is  no  excuse. 
If  you  cannot  do  a  work  for 
your  own  dead,  do  a  work  for  your 
neighbor's  dead.  Assist  that  poor  man 
across  the  way  who  has  perhaps  hun- 
dreds and  thousands  of  names,  but  has 
no  means  and  no  way  of  having  them 
officiated  for,  and  verily  you  shall  in  no 
wise  lose  your  reward.  When  an  Elder 
is  sent  into  the  world  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel, if  circumstances  are  favorable,  he 
goes  first  to  his  relatives  and  acquaint- 
ances, and  then  he  preaches  the  Gospel 
to  the  world.  So  we  must  labor  at 
home.  If  we  cannot  get  information 
concerning  our  own  dead,  let  us  expend 
a  portion  of  our  means,  if  we  have  any, 
for  the  salvation  of  the  dead  of  others. 
In  this  we  will  manifest  the  spirit  of 
true  charity. 

As  it  is  at  present,  we  find  that  in 
some  instances  brethren  are  building  up 
fortunes  for  their  children  to  quarrel 
over  and  spend  when  they  are  gone.  We 
know  by  experience  that  we  cannot 
take  these  things  with  us  from  this 
life,  and  the  result  is.  all  we  accumu- 
late of  this  world's  goods  is  left  be- 
hind, and  trouble  generally  arises 
among  children  over  such  things. 

I  am  reminded  of  an  occurrence  that 


12 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


is  said  to  have  actually  happened.  One 
of  our  rich  brethren  died,  and  after  a 
time  his  spirit  returned  to  earth.  He 
visited  a  friend,  and  this  is  the  language 
that  he  used  in  speaking  to  that  friend: 
"What  a  fool  I  have  been.  I  spent  days 
and  weeks,  months  and  years  upon  the 
earth  in  accumulating  means,  and  I 
was  abundantly  successful.  I  built  up 
a  big  fortune,  and  then  I  was  called 
away.  I  passed  into  the  spirit  world, 
and  left  it  all  for  my  children  to  quar- 
rel over.   "What  a  fool  I  have  been." 

Is  there  not  a  text  in  his  words?  It 
might  have  occurred  to  that  man,  while 
he  was  talking  to  his  friend,  that  he 
could  have  founded  an  institution  of 
learning,  or  endowed  a  hospital,  or  bet- 
ter than  that,  he  could  have  creat- 
ed a  temple  fund;  that  is  to  say, 
he  could  have  provided  amply 
for  each  one  of  his  children,  and 
with  the  remainder,  or  a  goodly 
portion  of  it,  could  have  created  a 
temple  fund,  to  be  used  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  dead;  and  had  the  fund  been 
sufficiently  large,  the  interest  only,  and 
not  the  principal,  might  have  been  ex- 
pended to  save  his  dead  and  the  dead 
of  others.  Perhaps  the  thought  occurred 
to  him  that  if  he  had  done  this,  while 
his  body  rested  in  the  grave  and  his 
spirit  dwelt  in  the  spirit  land,  the 
means  that  God  had  given  him  on  earth 
would  be  doing  a  great  and  glorious 
work  and  perpetuating  his  memory  up- 
on earth.  This  is  one  way  in  which  we 
can  perpetuate  our  memories. 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  a  most 
glorious  subject  to  contemplate.  And 
not  only  shall  the  brethren  be  saviors 
upon  Mount  Zion,  but  the  sisters,  too, 
shall  share  in  this  glorious  work;  for 
they  can  go  to  the  temple  and  assist  in 
officiating  for  the  dead.  The  sisters  as 
well  as  the  brethren  shall  have  credit 
on  the  books  for  their  share  in  this 
grand  work.  Brethren  and  sisters,  here 
are  the  temples  before  us.  Now  let  me 
ask  the  question,  Who  shall  be  worthy 
to  go  into  them  and  to  do  the  work 
that  I  have  indicated?  You  know  some- 
thing of  the  power  and  sacredness  of 
the  work;  you  know  something  of  this 
binding  and  sealing  power;  you  know 


the  great  responsibility  of  exercising 
that  power.  I  ask  you,  Who  shall  be 
worthy  to  go  into  these  temples?  We 
have  been  told  by  our  Prophet  and 
President  that  the  man  who  does  not 
pay  his  tithing  in  this  Church  shall  not 
have  access  to  them.  Not  that  he  shall 
be  coerced,  not  that  he  shall  be  fright- 
ened, by  this  saying  of  the  President's; 
but  simply  because  he  is  unworthy  to 
go  into  the  temple.  If  he  violates  this 
great  commandment  of  God — the  law  of 
tithing— then  he  is  not  worthy  to  re- 
ceive and  participate  in  the  blessings  of 
the  House  of  the  Lord.  It  is  a  simple 
proposition.  The  Bishop  shall  not  rec- 
ommend him;  the  president  of  the 
Stake  shall  not  recommend  him.  They 
cannot  do  it.  It  would  not  be  pleasing 
in  the  sight  of  God.  And  they  who  vio- 
late the  other  commandments — and! 
there  are  many  who  disregard  the  au- 
thority of  the  Priesthood,  who  slight 
the  counsels  of  the  servants  of  God,  and 
who  will  not  give  ear  to  their  teachings 
— are  not  worthy  to  go  into  the  house  of 
the  Lord  and  officiate  for  the  living  and 
the  dead.  And  that  shows  a  very  close 
connection  between  the  living  and  the 
dead,  between  this  world  and  the  other 
world;  for  you  can  scarcely  mention 
the  work  for  the  dead,  except  you  shall 
say  something  concerning  the  living; 
and  you  can  scarcely  speak  of  the  liv- 
ing, except  you  shall  say  something 
concerning  the  dead. 

I  believe  that  God  speaks  to  us  as  if 
we  were  in  eternity,  and  that  whenever 
He  gives  a  commandment  or  a  law  un- 
to this  Church,  it  is  done  as  if  there 
were  no  such  thing  as  death  or  a  veil 
dividing  us  from  His  presence.  His 
laws  are  permanent  and  eternal  in  their 
nature;  they  are  binding  upon  this 
world  and  upon  the  world  to  come; 
they  are  binding  upon  the  living  and 
binding  upon  the  dead. 

As  I  have  said,  this  is  a  glorious 
theme  for  contemplation,  and  could  not 
be  exhausted  in  a  sermon  a  month  long. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 
By  Prophets  long  foretold. 
Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


13 


AFTERNOON  SESSION— 2  P.  M. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  la- 
bor fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Jonathan  G.  Kimball. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah, 
Guide  us  to  the  promised  land. 

We  are  weak,  but  Thou  art  able. 
Hold  us  with  Thy  powerful  hand. 

ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 
Individual  Re=ponsibtiity  of  the  Saints— Neglect  of 
duties  of  the  Priesthood  deprecated— Baneful 
effects  of  bad  example— Officers  should  be 
wisely  selected— Saints .  should  not  take 
their  hands  from  the  plow. 
My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I 
feel  very  grateful  this  afternoon  that 
the  Lord  is  mindful  of  his  people.  I 
thank  him  for  the  prosperity  that  is  at- 
tending the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  the 
liberty  that  we  enjoy,  and  for  the  mar- 
velous way  in  which  he  has  operated 
upon  the  people  in  many  sections  of  the 
earth  to  bring  about  the  freedom  that 
his  servants  enjoy  today.  In  standing 
before  you  this  afternoon  I  feel  very 
humble,  and  I  pray  that  the  power  and 
inspiration  of  God  may  rest  upon  me 
that  I  may  be  led  to  give  forth  the 
words  that  he  would  have  me  speak  on 
this  occasion;  for  he  knows  the  hearts 
of  this  people  and  the  teachings  that 
will  be  best  adapted  to  their  needs.  I 
have  greatly  enjoyed  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given  here  today.  I  do 
not  know  that  I  ever  heard  President 
Snow  speak  when  his  voice  sounded 
clearer  or  more  forceful  than  it  did  this 
morning,  and  this  reminded  me  of  the 
change  that  ofttimes  comes  over  men 
when  they  are  called  of  God  to  certain 
positions.  In  many  instances  their 
bodies  and  their  minds  seem  to  be  re- 
novated and  renewed  by  the  power  of 
God  within  them.  I  felt  in  listening 
to  President  Snow's  words  to  glorify 
the  name  of  our  Eternal  Father  for  his 
goodness  and  for  the  abundant  mani- 
festations of  his  approval  of  this  peo- 
ple. 

There  is  a  matter  that  I  have  thought 
of  a  great  deal  of  late  in  connection 
with  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
and  that  is  the  individual  responsibility 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  under. 
I  doubt  very  much  if  in  our  different 
callings  we  appreciate  this  as  we  ought 


to  do.  There  is  too  great  a  tendency 
on  the  part  of  those  who  bear  the  Holy 
Priesthood  to  try  to  shift  responsibility 
onto  the  presiding  officers  of  the  wards 
or  the  Stakes  or  the  Church.  Did  we 
ever  think  of  the  fact  that  every  one 
of  us  should  be  as  interested  in  the 
work  of  God  as  our  brother  or  our  sis- 
ter? We  ought  not  to  try  to  shift  re- 
sponsibility onto  some  one  else;  but  we 
ought  to  secure  a  clear  conscience  be- 
fore God  by  faithfully  discharging  the 
duty  whereunto  we  have  been  called, 
be  that  duty  ever  so  humble. 

Every  quorum  of  the  Priesthood  is 
necessary  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  If 
it  were  not,  it  never  would  have 
been  given  to  us.  I  have 
been  alarmed  at  the  dis- 
regard of  duty  shown  by  many  men 
who  have  been  honored  with  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God.  Especially 
is  this  the  case  in  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood, and  in  many  instances  it  is  to  be 
found  among  the  Elders  and  Seventies. 
This  ought  not  to  be.  I  feel  that  we 
will  never  arrive  at  the  condition  which 
we  would  like  to  attain  until  there  is  a 
renewal  of  interest  in  all  the  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood.  Our  heavenly  Father 
has  placed  each  quorum  in  the  Church 
to  perform  an  especial  labor.  The  duty 
of  the  Deacon  is  different  from  that  of 
.he  Teacher,  the  duty  of  the  Teacher 
is  different  from  that  of  the  Priest,  the 
duty  of  the  Priest  is  different  from  that 
of  the  Elder,  the  duty  of  the  Elder 
from  that  of  the  Seventy,  the  Seventy 
from  that  of  the  High  Priest,  and  the 
High  Priest  from  that  of  the  Apostle. 
In  some  of  the  Stakes  we  discover  that 
such  an  officer  as  a  Priest  has  not  been 
heard  of;  the  homes  of  the  people  have 
never  been  visited  by  Priests,  and  they 
have  never  heard  of  a  quorum  of 
Priests  in  their  Stake.  The  quorum  of 
Teachers  is  almost  as  badly  neglected 
in  some  quarters;  as  also  is  the  quorum 
of  Deacons. 

Now  there  is  a  great  and  a  grand 
work  for  the  Deacons,  the  Teachers  and 
the  Priests  to  perform,  as  well  as  for 
the  Elders  and  the  Seventies.  If  we  are 
not  faithful  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood, 
how  can  we  expect  to  advance?  If  we 
do  not  fulfill  the  duties  whereunto  God 
has  called  us,  how  can  we  expect  him 
to  honor  us  with  greater  things.  There 


14 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


is  no  young  man  in  this  Church  who 
has  been  honored  with  the  Priesthood 
of  the  Dea<^r>  and  has  been  faithful  in 
discharging  the  duties  of  that  calling, 
hut  what  has  been  honored  with  some 
higher  calling  and  Priesthood.  This  is 
true  also  of  the  Teachers  and  Priests. 
There  is  always  room  for  advancement 
in  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God. 
Our  Eternal  Father  will  always  honor 
those  who  honor  Him  and  His  author- 
ity. 

I  feel  that  there  are  officers  of  Stakes 
and  wards  who  have  taken  upon  them- 
selves a  grave  responsibility  in  main- 
taining men  and  women  in  positions  in 
this  Church  who  have  not  magnified 
or  even  appreciated  the  callings  where- 
unto  the  Lord  has  called  them.  And 
I  fear  that  in  some  instances  whole 
Stakes  have  suffered  by  the  example 
of  some  member  of  the  Stake  Presiden- 
cy, of  the  High  Council,  or  of  some 
other  organization  of  the  Priesthood. 
Men  have  pointed  to  a  brother  who  per- 
haps has  been  retained  as  a 
High  Councilor  or  as  a  Stake 
President,  who  has  not  honored  the 
Priesthood  that  has  been  conferred  up- 
on him,  and  whose  example  has  not 
been  a  £ood  one  before  the  youth  of 
Zion,'  and  they  have  justified  them- 
selves in  evil  conduct  by  reason  of  such 
examples.  The  presiding  officers  in 
Stakes  and  wards  have  been  lenient  in 
many  instances.  People  have  been 
tolerated  who  have  not  observed  the 
Word  of  Wisdom;  others  have  been  tol- 
erated who  have  not  paid  tithing-,  and 
still  others  who  have  violated  other 
laws  of  God;  and  this  course  has  been 
followed  in  some  instances  because  of 
the  desire  of  the  brethren  to  keep  these 
people  in  the  Church  and  save  their 
souls.  The  question  is,  is  it  better  to 
maintain  officers  in  the  Church  under 
these  conditions,  for  the  sake  of  their 
own  feeling's,  than  to  make  changes 
which  would  benefit  the  people  in  gen- 
eral? And  is  it  not  a  fact  that  those 
who  do  retain  officers  in  the  Church  who 
do  not  prize  the  Priesthood  and  have 
no  interest  in  the  work,  are  assuming  a 
great  responsibility?  President  Snow, 
President  Cannon  or  President  Smith 
cannot  go  into  all  the  Stakes  and  wards 
in  Zion.  They  therefore  send  the  Apos- 
tles; and  the  Apostles  never  go  except 


they  are  sent  by  the  Presidency.  They 
go  into  these  Stakes  authorized  to  per- 
form certain  labor,  and  if  they,  on  ac- 
count of  leniency,  retain  men  in  office 
whose  example  they  know  is  bad,  are 
they  not  shouldering  upon  themselves 
the  responsibility  of  the  unsatisfactory 
conditions  found  in  those  Stakes.  If 
this  be  true  of  the  general  authorities 
of  the  Church,  it  is  also  true  of  the 
Stake  authorities,  when  they  retain  in 
office  Bishops  or  officers  in  any  of  the 
different  associations  who  are  not  do- 
ing- their  duty?  Do  you  believe,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  Stake  Presi- 
dents will  be  justified  in  whose  Stakes 
we  have  never  heard  tell  of  a  Priests' 
quorum  or  a  Teacher's  quorum,  and  if 
we  have  heard  tell  of  a  Teachers' 
quorum,  those  Teachers  were  not  doing 
their  duty?  And  where  Bishops  allow 
this  condition  to  exist,  they  as  well  as 
the  Stake  Presidents  are  taking  upon 
themselves  responsibilities  I  should  not 
like  to  assume. 

Stake  Presidents  and  Counselors, 
High  Councilors.  Bishops  and  Counsel- 
ors ought  to  have  the  guidance  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
in  the  selection  of  men  to  fill 
offices.  Because  a  man  holds 
a  certain  degree  of  priesthood, 
it  does  not  follow  that  he  will  make  a 
good  Teacher  or  a  good  Priest,  or  that 
he  will  make  a  good  man  to  instruct 
the  people  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Bishops 
and  counselors  and  Stake  officers  should 
study  this  matter.  They  ought  not  to 
send  Teachers  into  the  homes  of  the 
people  who  will  visit  for  two  or  three 
hours  and  never  do  any  teaching. 
They  ought  to  send  men  out  who  are 
filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  who  will 
go  into  the  homes  of  the  Saints  and 
pray  with  them,  and  who  will  make  a 
study  of  the  people  under  their  watch- 
care.  Such  brethren,  when  they  see  a 
member  of  a  family  who  is  not  a  tithe- 
payer,  will  labor  with  that  member  up- 
on that  point;  and  if  there  is  a 
member  who  is  not  an  observer  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  they  will  labor  with 
that  one  upon  that  particular  point, 
and  so  on.  They  will  find  all  the  de- 
fects and  weaknesses,  and  in  the  spirit 
of  love  and  kindness  they  will  labor 
with  those  brethren  and  sisters  who  are 
delinquent  and  will  try  to  reform  them. 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


15 


We  send  out  many  Elders  into  the  mis- 
sionary field  and  spend  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  dollars  to  carry  the  Gospel 
abroad.  Is  it  not  just  as  important  that 
these  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  should 
be  active  and  alive  to  their  duty,  and 
that  the  members  of  those  quorums 
should  prize  the  office  they  hold  suffi- 
ciently to  keep  the  commandments 
which  God  has  given  them,  in  order 
that  their  example  may  be  good  before 
the  people?  We  find  Stake  officers  and 
ward  officers  who  do  not  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  They  have  their  cup 
of  tea  or  their  cup  of  coffee,  or  they 
are  given  to  smoking,  and  perhaps  in 
some  instances  to  drinking,  and  yet 
they  are  tolerated. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  speaking 
this  way  I  do  so  with  the  feeling  that  I 
would  expect  to  be  dealt  with  if  I  did 
not  honor  the  Priesthood  that  God  has 
conferred  upon  me  sufficiently  to  let  to- 
bacco, whisky  and  other  things  that 
God  has  forbidden  alone.  I  feel  that 
any  officer  in  this  Church  who  will  per- 
sist in  indulging  in  these  things  and 
setting  a  bad  example  before  the  peo- 
ple ought  to  have  at  least  sufficient  in- 
terest in  the  work  of  the  Lord  to  give 
up  his  position  to  some  one  who  will 
prize  and  magnify  the  position  that  God 
has  called  him  to.  I  do  not  believe  that 
men  who  are  living  in  open  violation  of 
the  commandments  of  God  prize  their 
calling.  They  may  think  they  do;  they 
may  think  that  they  love  the  work  of 
the  Lord;  but  their  very  acts  show  that 
they  do  not.  When  it  comes  to  laying 
aside  their  little  cup  of  tea  as  Relief 
Society  workers  or  as  other  workers  in 
the  Stakes  of  Zion,  some  cannot  do  it, 
not  even  for  the  sake  of  the  example. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
this  is  an  important  matter.  Every 
Deacon,  every  Teacher  and  every  Priest 
ought  to  ask  himself  the  question 
whether  or  not  he  is  magnifying  the 
Priesthood  that  God  has  honored  him 
with.  For  it  is  an  honor  to  be  a  Dea- 
con in  the  Church  of  Christ.  It  is  a 
greater  honor  than  any  that  can  be 
conferred  upon  men  in  the  political 
world,  because  this  work  that  we  are 
engaged  in  is  God's  work,  not  the  work 
of  man,  and  God  will  honor  those  who 
honor  the  positions  that  are  given  to 
them  in    His    Church.      Now,  where 


Teachers  are  not  doing  their  duty,  shall 
the  President  of  the  Church  be  held  re- 
sponsible? Would  it  be  manly  for  the 
Bishop  of  a  Ward  to  say  that  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  is  responsible  be- 
cause his  ward  is  not  up  to  the  mark 
m  fulfilling  the  obligations  that  the 
Lord  has  placed  upon  them?  It  appears 
to  me  that  this  is  not  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel.  The  spirit  of  the  Gospel  is  for  ev- 
ery man  to  do  his  duty  and  not  try  to 
shift  any  responsibility  onto  somebody 
else.  We  are  told  that  we  are  agents 
unto  ourselv.es,  and  that  we  ought  to 
be  engaged  in  bringing  to  pass  much 
righteousness.  When  we  are  placed  to 
preside  over  a  Ward  it  is  not  necessary 
to  go  to  the  President  of  the  Church  to 
ask  about  every  little  matter,  but  we 
are  entitled  to  the  spirit  of  God  and 
to  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  our  calling.  If  we  are  ener- 
getic and  are  working  in  the  calling 
whereunto  the  Lord  has  called  us,  he 
will  reveal  many  great  and  important 
things  unto  us,  and  he  will  bring  to  our 
minds  many  suggestions  and  ideas  with 
regard  to  the  government  of  our  Ward. 
So  with  presidents  of  Stakes  and  High 
Councils  and  other  officers  of  the 
Church. 

I  am  interested  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  would  like  to  see  these  quorums 
of  the  Lesser  Priesthood  in  a  good  ac- 
tive condition.  It  is  thought  by  some 
that  we  have  concentrated  our  energies 
too  much  upon  Sunday  school  work  or 
upon  Mutual  Improvement  work,  and 
we  have  not  given  that  attention  which 
we  ought  to  do  to  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood.  If  we  have  erred  in  this 
direction,  we  ought  to  correct  it  and  la- 
bor diligently  to  see  that  every  quorum 
is  in  good  live  condition.  No 
Stake  of  Zion  can  be  up  to 
the  mark  whose  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  are  inactive.  Inactivity  is 
death,  and  there  are  too  many  dead 
members  in  the  Priesthood.  The  man 
who  will  grow  in  this  Priesthood  and 
come  to  the  front  is  the  man  who  labors. 
And  as  with  the  man,  so  with  the 
quorum.  The  Stake  President  who  will 
develop  himself  and  his  Stake  is  the 
one  who  is  actively  engaged  in  his 
calling.  If  he  is  not  thus  engaged,  in- 
stead of  growing  he  will  wither  up,  and 
his  Stake  will  suffer.    Now  it  appeara 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  me  that  the  progress  of  the  work 
of  God  in  the  wards  and  in  the  Stakes 
is  of  greater  importance  than  the  feel- 
ing of  any  man  or  woman;  and  it  would 
seem  to  me  that  Latter-day  Saints  who 
actually  believe  that  this  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  when  they  know  that 
changes  can  be  made  which  will  bene- 
fit the  work  of  God,  they  will  not  feel 
hurt  or  that  an  injustice  is  being  done 
by  such  changes.  I  believe  that  some 
censure  has  been  merited  by  some  Stake 
officers  for  not  making  changes  that 
•ought  to  have  been  made.  I  believe 
that  if  they  had  made  these  changes 
manfully  and  under  the  influence  of  the 
spirit  of  God,  and  explained  to  those 
affected  why  they  were  necessary,  the 
brethren  would  not  have  felt  half  as 
bad  as  it  has  been  supposed  they  would. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  his  goodness 
and  for  the  blessings  which  this  people 
are  enjoying  at  the  present  time.  The 
thing  for  us  to  do  is  to  hold  on  to  the 
end;  not  simply  to  go  part  of  the  way, 
but  to  go  all  the  way,  doing  the  will  of 
our  Father  from  day  to  day  so  far  as 
it  is  made  clear  to  us. 

Our  labor  for  salvation  reminds  me 
very  much  of  an  experience  that  was 
brought  to  my  attention  this  season  by 
a  colony  of  our  people  going  into  Wyo- 
ming. I  heard  of  one  or  two  of  them 
who  became  discouraged  before  they 
got  to  the  Summit  in  Parley's  canyon, 
and  one  or  two  more  became  discour- 
aged when  they  got  to  some  other  sum- 
mit; while  others  turned  back  as  they' 
were  going  or  after  they  got  there. 
Now  those  people  did  not  receive  any 
reward.  Their  time  was  thrown  away. 
Others,  after  they  got  there  and  en- 
gaged in  the  toil  which  was  necessary 
to  settle  up  any  new  country,  became 
discouraged  and  they  also  left.  And 
others  will  leave.  This  has  been  the 
history  of  the  settlement  of  all  our  new 
countries.  I  am  told  that  at  least  one- 
half  of  the  people  that  went  to  Cache 
Valley  in  early  days  returned  because 
they  did  not  think  they  could  live 
there.  In  listening  to  Brother  Judd 
Brother  Ricks,  Brother  Card  and  other 
brethren  who  are  having  experience  in 
this  same  line,  I  can  sympathize  with 
them,  for  our  experience  is  similar  to 
theirs.  There  are  some  people  who 
turn  back  all  along  the  way.  So  it  is 
•  on  our  journey  and  search  for  salva- 


tion. Some  are  afraid  of  the  water; 
they  dare  not  go  into  the  water  to  be 
baptized.  Then  there  are  others  who 
after  they  are  baptized  are  afraid  of 
something  else.  They  cannot  make 
the  sacrifice,  as  they  consider  it,  of 
paying  their  tithing.  They  cannot  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  They  cannot 
be  honest,  or  virtuous,  or  truthful. 
The  result  is,  we  find  one  turning  off 
here,  and  another  there,  and  leaving 
the  ship  Zion.  Now,  only  those  are 
benefitted  who  continue  in  their  search 
for  salvation,  and  in  their  journey  to- 
ward eternal  life.  Only  those  receive 
a  reward  who  pass  through  the  hard- 
ships and*  the  discouraging  conditions 
arid  continue  in  the  way  of  life  unto  the 
end.  If  we  turn  back  any  time  before 
then,  our  labors  have  been  in  vain  and 
we  will  not  receive  the  reward.  We 
are  told  that  blessed  is  the  man  who 
endureth  temptation,  for  he  shall  re- 
ceive a  crown  of  life  which  the  Lord 
has  promised. 

My  brethern  and  sisters,  whatever 
position  we  have  been  called  to  occupy 
in  this  Church,  or  whatever  quorum 
of  Priesthood  we  are  members  of,  the 
only  way  we  can  receive  the  promised 
reward  is  to  labor  constantly  and  to 
keep  the  Spirit  of  God.  If  we  will  do 
this,  we  will  love  the  work-  of  God 
more  every  day  of  our  lives.  I  thank 
God  that  this  has  been  my  experience. 
I  have  felt  better  every  day  in  the 
labors  which  the  Lord  has  called  me 
to  perform,  and  my  pleasure  in  them 
increases.  I  know  this  is  the  case  with 
all  men  and  women  that  work  to  bring 
about  righteousness.  Those  who  en- 
dure trials  and  temptations,  those  who 
are  full  of  zeal  and  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  from  morn  until  night,  you  will  al- 
ways know  just  where  to  find  them. 
Great  and  glorious  will  be  their  re- 
ward. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  I 
have  that  this  is  his  work.  I  re- 
ceive new  testimonies  every  day  of  my 
life.  I  know  that  God  is  with  this  peo- 
ple, and  I  know  that  He  will  bless 
everything  that  is  undertaken  as  indi- 
cated through  the  Pr^>w  of  God.  It 
is  enough  for  us  to  know  that  the 
Lord  has  indicated  through  His  mouth- 
piece what  should  be  done,  and  it  is  for 
us  to  give  heed    unto    it.     May  God 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


17 


grant  that  we  may  have  His  Spirit  in 
all  our  labors;  that  we  may  be  true  to 
the  testimonies  we  have  received;  that 
we  may  love  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 
not  be  jealous  of  any  department  that 
is  thriving;  but  that  we  may  desire,  as 
Bishops  and  Stake  Presidents,  to  con- 
centrate our  efforts  upon  the  part  of 
the  work  which  is  a  little  delinquent, 
and  see  to  it  that  it  is  brought  to  the 
front,  in  order  that  every  department 
of  the  Priesthood  may  be  united.  If 
it  is  possible  for  the  Presidency  of  this 
Church  and  the  Apostles  to  be  united 
to  a  man,  that  the  president  of  the 
quorum  of  the  Apostles  can 
say  to  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  that  nothing  in  righteousness 
can  be  required  of  these  men  that  will 
not  be  done,  so  it  is  possible  for  this 
to  be  said  of  the  Seventies,  and  of  the 
High  Priests,  and  of  the  Elders,  and 
of  every  department  of  the  Priesthood, 
if  all  men  will  labor  to  bring  this  re- 
sult about.  God  grant  that  this  may 
be  the  case;  that  we  may  be  encour- 
aged, and  that  the  blessings  of  God 
may  attend  every  effort  which  we  put 
forth  toward  the  upbuilding  of  His 
kingdom.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

"The  Holy  City"  was  sung  by  Horace 
S.  Ensign. 

ELDER  M.  F.  COWLEY. 

Patrick  Henry's  eloquent  plea  for  freedom— Regard 
of  the  Saints  for  the  Constitution— Work  of 
the  Adversary — How  to  obtain  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord— The  duty  to  sustain  the 
Government  —  The  redemption  of  Zion — 
Striking  experience  at  Galveston. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  grate- 
ful for  another  conference,  and  for  the 
opportunity  of  being  associated  with 
you.  It  is  our  duty  to  obtain  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  and  it  does  not  depend 
solely  upon  the  authority  of  the  Church. 
There  is  a  responsibility,  as  stated  by 
Elder  Woodruff,  resting  upon  every 
member.  It  is  not  confined  to  those  who 
bear  the  respective  offices  in  the  Priest- 
hood, but  it  extends  to  all  Saints,  male 
and  female.  As  I  view  it,  there  ought 
to  be  some  advancement  on  the  part 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  whole,  and 
on  the  part  of  the  Priesthood,  during 
the  time  that  intervenes  between  our 
general  conferences.  I  always  feel  im- 
pressed when  listening  to  my  brethren, 


no  matter  what  the  subject  may  be 
which  suggests  itself  to  their  mieds. 
The  one  thing  that  is  always  obligatory 
upon  every  Saint  is  to  do  the  duty  that 
devolves  upon  him  at  the  moment.  We 
have  heard  Brother  Ensign  sing  about 
Jerusalem,  the  beautiful  city.  We  some- 
times read  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  84th  section,  a  beautiful 
song  which  the  Lord  said  should  be 
sung  in  the  last  days.    He  says: 

"For  I,  the  Almighty,  have  laid  my 
hands  upon  the  nations,  to  scourge 
them  for  their  wickedness: 

"And  plagues  shall  go  forth,  and  they 
shall  not  be  taken  from  the  earth  until 
I  have  completed  my  work  which  shall 
be  cut  short  in  righteousness, 

"Until  all  shall  know  me,  who  remain, 
even  from  the  least  unto  the  greatest, 
and  shall  be  filled  with  the  knowledge 
of  the  Lord,  and  shall  see  eye  to  eye." 

President  Snow,  Elder  Smoot  and  Elder 
Clawson  testified  this  morning  that  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles  are  united  and  see 
"eye  to  eye."  I  wish  to  say  that  this 
ought  to  be  the  status  of  the  Presiding 
Council  of  Seventies,  and  I  presume  it 
is.  It  ought  to  be  the  condition  of  ev- 
ery council  of  Seventies  throughout  the 
Church.  It  ought  to  be  the  condition  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  this  Church, 
and  I  suppose  it  is.  It  ought  to  be  the 
condition  of  the  presiding  authorities  of 
every  quorum  in  the  Holy  Priesthood 
down  to  the  presidency  of  the  last  quor- 
um of  Deacons,  which  has  been  estab- 
lished in  the  Church.  It  ought  to  be 
the  condition  of  every  Stake  presidency, 
of  every  High  Council,  of  every  Bishop- 
ric, of  the  presiding  authority  of  every 
branch,  of  every  Elder,  of  the  presi- 
dency of  every  mission,  of  every  con- 
ference president  and  of  every  Elder  in 
every  mission  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
There  should  be  an  absolute  unity 
throughout  the  Church.  And  this  unity 
can  only  be  brought  about  by  a  com- 
mon enjoyment  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is 
tho  only  thine:  on  this  earth  or  in  the 
heavons  that  will  brinir  people  to  a 
unity  of  the  faith.  It  was  this  spirit 
which  led  us  in  the  first  place  to  em- 
brace the  Gospel,  and  when  we  were 
baptized  we  received  a  title  to  the  cora- 
pambnship"  or  tne  jnoly  GftostT,  and  we 
were  promised  that  he  should  guide  us 
into  all  truth. 


IS 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


I  would  like  to  impress  upon  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  that  we  ought    to  be 
guided  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  ev- 
everything  that  affects  the  welfare  of 
this  people.    No  Latter-day  Saint  bear- 
ing the  Holy  Priesthood  ought  to  go 
to  any  place  without  the  companionship 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.      I    do  not  care 
whether  it  is  a  dance,  to  enjoy  a  little 
innocent  recreation,  or  whether  it  is  a 
political  meeting,  to  consider  the  great 
questions  ot  the  day,  he  ought  to  take 
the  Priesthood  of  God  with  him  and  en- 
joy the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
in  what  he  says  and  does.    By  that  I 
do  not  mean  that  we  ought  to  use  our 
Priesthood  in  any  manner  that  is  not 
justifiable,  but  I  do  mean  to  say  that 
we  ought  always  to  remember  that  we 
are  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  there  is 
no  consideration  affecting  the  welfare 
of  this  people  in  which  we  are  justified 
in     separating     ourselves     from  the 
thought  that  we  are  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  that  the  highest  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  this  people  is  to  establish  the 
Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  upon  the 
earth.  I  feel  that  we  have  broken  away 
to  a  great  extent  from  the  old  fashioned 
spirit  of  the  Gospel,  if  you  will  allow 
me  to  use  that  expression.    I  think 
^sometimes  that  we  have  not  so  much 
faith  in  God  as  had  the  patriots  who 
founded  this  country.    When  they  pre- 
pared the  Declaration  of  Independence 
they  invoked  the  inspiration  of  the  su- 
preme God  to  guide  them  in  the  fram- 
ing of  that  document.    And  they  se- 
cured that  inspiration.    It  was  guided 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord 
had  a  hand  in  it.   You  remember,  per- 
haps, reading  what  purports  to  be  a 
speech  delivered  by  Patrick  Henry  in 
the  Congress  at  Philadelphia,  at  a  time 
when  men  were  afraid  to  stand  up  for 
what  they  considered  to  be  the  rights 
of  the  colonists  of  this  country  and  to 
establish  upon  this  land  a  government 
that  should  be  free  from  allegiance  to 
every    other    government.      In  that 
memorable  address  he  made  this  state- 
ment: 

"It  is  not  given  to  our  poor  human 
intellect  to  climb  the  skies,  to  pierce 
the  councils  of  the  Almighty  One.  But 
methinks  I  stand  among  the  awful 
clouds  which  veil  the  brightness  of  Je- 
hovah's throne.     Methinks  I  see  the 


Recording  Angel— pale  as  angel  is  pale, 
weeping  as  an  angel  can  weep— come 
trembling  up  to  the  throne,  and  speak- 
ing his  dread  message: 

"  'Father!  The  Old  World  is  baptized 
in  blood.  Father!  It  is  drenched  with 
the  blood  of  millions,  butchered  in  war 
in  persecution,  in  slow  and  grinding 
oppression.  Father,  look!  With  one 
glance  of  Thine  eternal  eye,  look  over 
Europe,  Asia,  Africa,  and  behold  every- 
where a  terrible  sight— men  trodden 
down  beneath  the  oppressor's  feet,  na- 
tions lost  in  blood,  murder  and  su- 
perstition walking  hand  in  hand  over 
the  graves  of  their  victims,  and  not  a 
single  voice  to  whisper  hope  to  man.' 

"He  stands  there  (the  angel),  his 
hand  trembling  with  the  black  record 
of  human  guilt.  But  hark!  The  voice 
of  Jehovah  speaks  out  from  the  awful 
cloud:  Let  there  be  light  again.  Let 
there  be  a  New  World.  Tell  my  peo- 
ple the  poor,  downtrodden  millions,  to 
go  out  from  the  Old  World.  Tell  them 
to  go  out  from  wrong,  oppression  and 
blood.  Tell  them  to  go  out  from  the 
Old  World,  to  build  my  altar  in  the 
New." 

In  the  closing  words  of  the  speech, 
he  made  this  significant  remark: 

"As  God  lives,  my  friends,  I  believe 
that  to  be  His  voice.  Yes,  were  my 
soul  trembling  on  the  wing  of  eternity, 
were  this  hand  freezing  in  death,  were 
my  voice  choking  with  the  last  strug- 
gle, I  would  still,  with  the  last  gasp  of 
that  voice,  implore  you  to  remember 
the  truth  God  has  given  America  to  be 
free." 

This  was  the  spirit  of  Nephi.  Nephi 
declared  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  that 
God  had  decreed  that  this  land  should 
be  a  land  of  liberty,  and  that  there 
should  not  occupy  it  any  people  that 
would  hold  in  servitude  any  other  class 
of  people.  So  that  when  in  ^he  his- 
tory of  this  great  country  the  question 
arose  regarding  the  slavery  of  the  black 
race,  it  was  a  foregone  conclusion  that 
that  section  of  the  nation  which  es- 
poused their  freedom,  would  gain  the 
victory  over  those  who  sought  to  main- 
tain slavery,  because  God  had  decreed 
that  the  people  of  this  land  should  be 
free. 

What  I  desire  to  call  your  attention 
to  is  the  fact  that  the  hand  of  Al- 
mighty God  is  in  all  these  things,  and 
when  I  see  Latter-day  Saints  breaking 
away  and  feeling  that  they  ought  to  be 
free  from  any  considerations  that 
would  benefit  the  work,  I  feel  that  they 
are  not  true  to  the  history  of  the  coun- 
try in  which  we  dwell  and  to  that  pa- 


* 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


10 


triotism  which  God  decreed  the  Latter- 
-day Saints  should  exhibit.  For  I  say 
that  in  this  land  there  are  no  people 
that  have  so  great  a  respect  for  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  as 
have  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There  are 
no  people  that  can  have  the  respect 
for  it  that  they  can.  I  do  not  wish 
to  impeach  the  respect  of  other  people 
for  that  glorious  instrument,  but  the 
depth  of  the  respect  that  is  entertained 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  based  upon 
their  knowledge  of  the  purposes  of 
God  concerning  this  land  and  the  in- 
stitutions which  God  inspired  the  people 
to  found.  The  Roman  empire  prior  to 
the  coming  of  the  Savior  tol- 
erated all  classes  of  religions,  no 
matter       what  dogmas  they 

taught,  and  this  policy  was  main- 
tained until  the  Son  of  God  came  and 
established  His  Church.  His  Church, 
however,  came  in  contact  with  the  in- 
stitutions of  men,  but  it  did  not  seek 
to  injure  any  of  these  men.  It  was 
established  for  the  salvation  of  the 
human. family,  to  lift  them  upon  a  high- 
er plane,  and  to  point  them  the  way  to 
eternal  life.  It  was  the  only  plan  of 
salvation,  devised  in  the  heavens  above. 
Because  of  the  freedom  granted  to  all 
religions  by  the  Roman  empire,  Jesus 
was  enabled  to  establish  His  Church 
upon  the  earth.  So  in  these  last  days 
God  inspired  the  founders  of  this  coun- 
try for  the  same  purpose.  They  sought 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  when 
they  framed  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence and  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.  We  read  in  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  God  raised 
up  men  and  inspired  them  to  frame  the 
constitution  of  this  land,  and  many  of 
these  men  laid  down  their  lives  in  de- 
fense of  human  liberty  and  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  a  government  upon  this 
land  which  should  be  a  palladium  of 
human  rights,  unequalled  by  any  other 
civil  government  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth!  ~~ God  says  He  inspired  the  Con- 
stitution; and  every  law  made  in  pur- 
suance thereto  He  declares  to  be  a  righ- 
teous law,  and  every  law  not  in  pur- 
suance thereto  an  unrighteous  law: 
'And  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than 
these  cometh  of  evil."  He  further  states 
that  the  Saints  of  God  are  justified  in 
upholding  the  institutions  of  this  coun- 


try ;^and_in  those  days  when  the  Con- 
stitution had  not  been  infringed  and 
trampled  upon  by  ungodly  men,  he  said 
that  no  man  had  occasion  to  break  the 
laws  of  the  land  in  keeping  the  laws 
of  God.    He  also  said  that  righteous- 
men  should  be  selected  to  administer 
the  affairs  of  government,  men  who  • 
would  uphold  the  Constitution  of  the 
country  and  who  would  maintain  the-' 
rights  of  the  people  in  every  State. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  we  have  not  got  out  of  the  woods: 
yet.  No  circumstances  will  arise  in  this 
country  that  will  affect  the  welfare  of' 
this  people,  either  from  a  religious,  a' 
political,  a  financial,  a  social,  business,, 
scientific,  or  any  other  standpoint,  butt 
what  Almighty  God  is  bound  to  have 
something  to  say  in  regard  to  them. 
He  may  not  come  out  and  say  it 
through  the  voice  of  the  Prophet  of.. 
God;  but  it  is  expected  that  every  Lat-  - 
ter-day  Saint  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  he  will  get  the  will  of  the  Lord  to  • 
Guide  him  in  all  these  matters.  What- 
did  Moses  say  to  those  who  sought  his^ 
rebuke  of  some  persons  that  tea* 
prophesied  in  Israel?  Why,  said  he,  "E 
would  to  God  that  all  the  Lord's  people 
were  prophets."  We  ought  to  be  proph- 
ets, and  we  ought  to  seek  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord  on  every  subject 
that  arises.  If  we  will  do  this,  we  shall 
know  for  ourselves.  Unless  we  feel  this 
way  I  believe  I  am  justified  in  saying: 
that  it  will  be  a  long  time  before  we 
shall  be  able  to  sing  this  song  con- 
tained in  the  84th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  In  all  affairs,  in 
whatever  arises,  we  ought  to  seek  the 
mind  and  will  of  God  thereon,  and  try 
to  understand  what  will  be  for  the  best, 
interests  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
are  justified  in  so  doing.  There  is  not: 
one  principle  of  the  Gospel  that  will\ 
lead  me  to  entrench  upon  the  right  of  a: 
Methodist,  a  Baptist,  a  Catholic,  an  in- 
fidel or  any  other  man,  no  matter  what 
his  religion  or  his  politics  may  be.  There- 
is  not  one  covenant  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood that  will  lead  me  to  do  this.  I; 
have  read  the  secret  oaths  and  cove- 
nants of  some  of  the  combinations  that 
exist  in  this  land,  and  I  want  to  raise 
my  voice  against  the  Latter-day  Saints 
identifying  themselves  with  these 
"tares,"  which  are  being  bound  in  bun- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


diet  prepared  for  the  burning.  Their 
covenants  are  the  cords  that  bind  them. 
I  say  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  who 
J  keeps  his  covenants  made  in  the  waters 
of  baptism  or  elsewhere  will  be  a  good 
citizen  and  will  never  infringe  upon  the 
rights  of  any  people;  but  he  will  take  a 
course  that  will  exalt  the  people  and 
that  will  tend  to  the  maintenance  of 
fret-dom  ux>on  this  land.  We  are  in- 
terested in  this  country.  This  is  the 
land  of  Zion.  This  is  the  land  where 
Adam  dwelt.  This  is  the  land  where 
he  built  his  altar  and  offered  sacrifice 
to  God.  This  is  the  land  where  the  Gos- 
pel was  first  revealed  to  the  children  of 
men.  This  is  the  land  where  the  ordi- 
nance of  baptism  was  first  performed 
upon  this  earth.  This  is  the  land  where 
the  Holy  Ghost  was  first  given  to  man. 
This  is  the  land  that  God  has  always 
led  people  to  when  He  wanted  to  secure 
unto  them  the  best  of  freedom.  He  led 
people  from  Jerusalem  at  different 
times,  and  he  established  them  upon 
this  land.  He  gave  them  Prophets 
and  Apostles  and  inspired  men,  and  He 
bes^owea  upon  them  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty  to  guide  them  in  all  walks 
Of  life. 

I  feel  impressed  upon  this  subject.  It 
seems  to  me  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  not  controlled  as  they  ought  to  be 
.  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel  in  some 
of  the  walks  of  life.  It  is  the  risrht  of 
everv  man  and  woman  in  this  Church 
to  have  a  testimony  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
as  to  how  to  act  in  all  these  matters. 
I  have  sought  the  Lord  in  regard  to 
these  things  long  ago  and  this  is  how  I 
feel.  Let  me  remind  you  that  the  devil 
is  not  dead.  The  adversary  of  righte- 
ousness is  working  his  leaven  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  He  is  trying  to 
destroy  the  youth  of  this  people  by  se- 
ducing them  from  the  paths  of  chastity 
and  virtue;  by  filling  their  minds  with 
skepticism,  and  by  establishing  in  their 
hearts  the  idea  that  there  are  some 
things  connected  with  the  people  of 
God  concerning  which  the  servants  of 
God  ousht  to  keep  their  mouths  shut. 
Now,  I  know  the  men  that  founded  this 
commonwealth  and  the  enterprises  of 
this  land.  They  came  here  when  it  was 
a  howling  wilderness  and  laid  the  foun- 
dations of  material  prosperity  in  these 
mountain     valleys.     They  established 


the  institutions  of  learning.  They 
have  built  the  Temples  of  God  from 
Cache  Valley  on  the  north  to  St.  George 
on  the  south.  And  I  know  that  they 
have  been  men  of  God,  every  one  of 
them,  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
down  to  President  Lorenzo  Snow.  I 
know  that  the  servants  of  God 
have  His  mind  and  will;  and  the 
Latter-day  Saints  can  have  it  too.  I 
want  to  tell  you  how  you  can  get  it. 
As  I  started  out  to  say,  it  is  by  the 
daily  performance  of  every  duty  that 
devolves  upon  us.  You  show  me  a 
man  who  is  constantly  engaged  in 
prayer  and  supplication,  and  I  will  point 
to  you  a  man  that  does  not  have  to  be 
preached  to  in  regard  to  the  subject 
of  tithing;  he  does  not  have  to  be  urged 
to  send  his  children  to  Sunday  school, 
and  to  get  his  boys  into  the  quorums  of 
the  Lesser  Priesthood.  He  is  so  full  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  that  he 
wants  them  there  all  the  time.  The 
man  who  attends  to  his  family  prayers 
and  to  his  secret  prayers,  the  man  who 
pays  his  tithes  and  offerings,  the  man 
who  shows  his  willingness,  when  called 
upon,  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth  or  to  act  in  the  capacity 
of  a  Deacon  at  home,  that  is  the  man 
who  will  obtain  the  mind  and  the  will 
of  the  Lord.  I  have  seen  not  only  the 
hand  of  the  Lord,  but  the  hand  of  the 
adversary  working  its  way  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Satan  is  seeking  to 
divide  them  and  to  poison  their  minds 
in  regard  to  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  and  the  leaders  in  the  various 
Stakes  of  Zion.  Men  have  said  that 
they  must  not  seek  for  counsel,  and  at 
the  same  time  they  have  sought  coun- 
sel from  men  who  possess  the  spirit  of 
apostasy.  They  have  sought  counsel 
from  men  who  to  my  personal  knowl- 
edge have  secured  their  livelihood  from 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  have  spent 
their  nights  playing  cards  and  talking 
against  the  Authorities  of  this  Church. 
You  can  seek  counsel  from  that  class  of 
men,  but  if  you  seek  counsel  from 
President  Snow  or  from  Apostle  Mer- 
rill, who  presides  over  the  Cache  Val- 
ley Stake,  or  from  some  of  the  brethren 
who  preside  over  the  Stakes  in  Idaho— 
I  say  if  you  seek  counsel  .from  these 
men  as  to  what  would  be  for  the  best 
interests  of  the  people  in  this  inter- 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


211 


mountain  region,  oh,  you  are  going  to 
the  wrong  kind  of  men!  Now,  I  want  to 
say  that  I  am  going  to  these  men  for 
my  counsel.  I  propose,  God  being  my 
helper,  (I  do  not  say  this  boastingly, 
for  I  feel  that  I  am  the  weakest  among 
my  brethren)  to  know  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord  on  all  subjects; 
and  whether  in  casting  a  political  vote 
or  in  lifting  my  hand  to  support  the 
Prophet  of  God,  I  propose  that  the  chief 
consideration  in  my  heart  shall  be,  what 
is  the  will  of  the  Lord?  I  want  to  know 
His  will.  Are  we  the  people  of  God,  or 
are  we  not?  Has  God  changed?  No. 
Has  the  everlasting  Gospel  changed? 
No,  and  it  never  will.  It  is  the  same 
yesterday,  today  and  forever. 

There  are  a  certain  class  of  pious 
men  among  us  that  I  call  hypocrites. 
They  are  "too  good"  to  do  anything 
that  is  not  considered  just  right  by  the 
world,  whether  it  is  right  in  the  sight 
of  God  or  not.  They  are  after  the  or- 
der of  the  men  who,  in  the  days  of 
Jesus,  sought  to  bring  Him  into  disre- 
pute, and  even  impeached  the  honor  of 
His  birth,  because  they  did  not  un- 
derstand it.  They  are  the  kind  of  men 
that  condemned  Rahab,  the  harlot,  be- 
cause she  hid  the  spies.  Why  did  she 
hide  the  spies?  Was  it  to  infringe  upon 
the  rights  of  the  people  of  Jericho  that 
she  hid  them  and  preserved  them  from 
those  miserable  minions  of  the  law?  No, 
she  did  it  for  righteousness  sake,  to 
protect  innocent  men  in  their  liberties. 
What  does  the  Apostle  Paul  say  about 
that  woman?  He  said  it  should  be  ac- 
counted unto  her  for  righteousness. 
God  commanded  Abraham  to  offer  up 
his  son  Isaac,  and  yet  it  had  been  writ- 
ten. Thou  shalt  not  kill.  Abraham 
withheld  not  his  son.  He  took  him  to 
the  altar.  He  prepared  the  kindling 
wood,  and  proposed  to  sacrifice  his  son 
upon  the  altar,  in  obedience  to  the  com- 
mand of  God.  He  did  not  know  that 
God  would  provide  a  ram  in  the  thicket, 
or  that  he  would  send  an  angel  to 
say.  "Lay  not  thine  hand  upon  the 
lad,  neither  do  thou  anything 
unto  him  for  now  I  know  that  thou 
fearest  God.  seeing-  that  thou  hast 
not  withheld  thy  son,  thine  only  son, 
from  me." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  do  not  want 
to  be  hypocrites.,  and  we  do  not  want 
to  be  so  cowardly  that  we  are  afraid 


to  ask  God  for  His  Holy  Spirit  and  for 
that  inspiration  which  has  been  sought 
for  by  men  of  this  country  from  the 
days  of  George  Washington  down  to 
the  present.  There  are  no  people  in 
these  United  States  who  have  been 
more  patriotic  to  the  institutions  of  our 
country  than  the  Latter-day  Saints^ 
Have  they  ever  lifted  their  hands 
against  the  Stars  and  Stripes?  No. 
Have  they  ever  lifted  their  voice 
against  the  institutions  of  this  country?' 
No.  And  I  wish  we  had  no  men  that 
would  raise  their  voice  against  the  ad- 
ministration of  our  country,  but  would 
uphold  and  sustain  it,  no  matter  what 
might  be  the  politics  thereof,  and  treat 
the  men  who  are  elected  to  office  in  our 
country  with  that  respect  which  is  due 
to  them  by  virtue  of  their  high  position 
and  the  trust  committed  to  them  by  the 
franchise  of  the  American  people.  But 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  true 
to  their  country.  They  have  furnished 
soldiers  to  fight  its  battles,  some  of 
whom  have  laid  down  their  lives  in 
defense  of  the  Stars  and  Stripes  on  the 
soil  of  Cuba  and  in  the  Philippine  Isl- 
ands. Whenever  this  people  have  taken 
issue  with  any  enactment,  it  has  been 
in  a  lawful  manner.  They  have  tested 
the  constitutionality  of  laws  passed  by 
the  Congress  of  the  United  States  di- 
rected against  them.  When  there  has 
been  a  ruling  in  the  courts  of  our  Terri- 
tory that  has  been  esteemed  unconsti- 
tutional, it  has  been  appealed  to  the 
highest  court  in  the  Territory.  When 
that  body  has  sustained  the  lower  court 
they  have  appealed  it  to  the  Supreme 
Court  of  the  United  States,  but  they 
have  never  lifted  the  hand  of  violence; 
thev  have  never  resorted  to  mobocracy 
cr  to  anything  of  that  kind.  When  the 
Sunreme  Court  has  given  its  decision 
the  Saints  of  God  have  rendered  obedi- 
ence to  that  decision.  I  say  that  we 
have  made  more  sacrifices  in  the  inter- 
est of  respect  to  our  country  than  any 
other  class  of  people  in  it.  My  advice 
is  to  sustain  those  men  who  will  sus- 
tain the  enterprises  which  have  been 
established  by  sacrifice  among  the  peo- 
ple of  God.  I  want  to  see  men  sustained 
in  this  coui.try  to  administer  the  affairs 
of  the  government  who  will  not  turn 
aside  the  citizens  of  any  State  when 
they  are  oppressed  by  mobocracy  by 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


saying  "Your  cause  is  just,  but  we  can 
■do  nothing  for  you."  I  want  to  see  men 
sustained  in  this  land  who  will  uphold 
the  Constitution  of  our  country,  and 
who  will  dare  defend  its  citizens  in 
e\ery  State  and  every  Territory. 

I  want  to  encourage  you,  brethren 
-and  sisters,  to  do  your  duty,  to  pay  your 
tithing,  and  to  say  your  prayers,  and 
to  sustain  the  quorums  of  the  Priest- 
.hood.  I  wish  that  our  Lesser  Priest- 
hood quorums  would  take  up  such  a 
program  as  we  have  in  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations.  I  wish  that 
all  the  members  of  the  Priesthood 
would  exalt  their  quorum  and  make  it 
the  chief  consideration  in  the  Church, 
"because  God  has  founded  it.  He  found- 
ed the  Deacon's  quorum,  the  Teacher's 
quorum  and  the  Priest's  quorum.  All 
these  other  associations  outside  of  the 
•quorums  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  are 
3ielps  in  government,  and  good  ones 
■too,  and  ought  to  be  sustained  in  their 
place.  If  we  will  seek  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord  on  all  subjects  the  Lord 
will  bless  us;  He  will  advance  us;  and 
the  words  of  the  Prophet  Lorenzo 
Snow  will  be  fulfilled  in  the  not  far  dis- 
tant future  by  steps  being  taken  look- 
ing to  the  redemption  of  Zion  and 
planting  the  feet  of  the  people  of  God 
on  that  land.  Why  were  they  driven 
from  this  land?  Well,  I  believe  that 
they  were  driven  from  the  land  of  their 
inheritance  because  they  became  like 
the  world.  They  would  not  accept  the 
XJnited  Order;  they  would  not  listen  to 
the  counsels  of  the  Prophet  of  God 
upon  all  subjects,  which  they  could 
liave  done  without  interfering  with  the 
welfare  or  interests  of  any  people  upon 
the  face  of  this  land.  Let  us  not  for- 
get that  we  are  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
■are  not  narrow-minded,  either.  Do  not 
we  send  the  Gosnel  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth  and  ask  the  Elders  to  preach 
it  without  money  and  without  price? 
Are  we  not  willing  to  make  any  sacri- 
fice for  their  salvation?  When  they 
Slave  smitten  us  on  the  one  cheek,  have 
we  ever  knocked  them  down?  When 
they  have  mobbed  our  Elders  and  slain 
them,  have  we  ever  returned  the  com- 
pliment in  the  same  way?  No,  our 
•course  has  been  one  constant  chain  of 
•devotion  to  principle  and  to  human  lib- 
erty upon  this  land. 


Let  us  do  our  duty,  and  then  some 
day  we  will  sing  this  song  that  I  am 
about  to  read;  and  there  will  be  more 
in  it  than  there  is  in  a  great  many 
songs  we  sing.  Some  of  the 
songs  we  sing  do  not  amount  to  much, 
because  we  do  not  exemplify  them  in 
our  lives.  I  have  helped  to  sing  'We 
thank  the,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  when 
I  knew  we  hardly  meant  it,  especially 
if  anything  outside  of  religious  matters 
came  from  the  Prophet  of  God.  Lots  of 
times  we  sing  "The  Spirit  of  God  like 
a  fire  is  burning."  But  after  a 
while  we  will  sing  this  song  which 
eame  to  my  mind  when  I  first  arose. 

"And  plagues  shall  go  forth." 

That  reminds  me  of  Brother  W.  T. 
Jack  and  myself  in  Galveston  last 
spring.  I  shall  always  remember  it,  for 
as  we  entered  that  city  I  said  to  Bro- 
ther Jack,  "I  would  like  to  lift  up  my 
voice  in  this  city  and  say  that  the  judg- 
ments of  God  are  coming  upon  the  peo- 
ple." But  we  only  had  a  few  hours 
there  and  not  much  money  to  hire  a 
hall,  so  we  let  it  go,  and  we  left  upon 
the  train  for  Houston.  I  had  a  feeling 
of  sadness  in  my  heart  that  I  had  not 
lifted  my  voice  in  that  city  and  warned 
the  people  of  the  judgments  that  were 
coming  upon  the  earth.  Brother  Jack 
will  remember  our  conversation.  There 
was  an  editor  there,  Mr.  Clarence  Ous- 
ley,  who  entertained  us  kindly,  and  who 
wrote  a  column  and  a  half  regarding 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  what  he  had 
seen  in  Salt  Lake  City.  He  came  here 
and  looked  around  the  city,  and  though 
he  came  with  prejudice,  he  left  with  a 
feeling  that  these  were  a  good  people, 
and  he  wrote  a  column  and  a  half  in 
our  favor.  What  occurred  to  him  dur- 
ing the  flood  at  Galveston?  He  gathered 
the  neighbors  into  his  house,  and  he 
and  his  family  and  every  soul  in  the 
house  were  saved.  The  judgments  of 
God  went  all  around  them,  but  they 
were  spared.  Now  we  want  to  warn  the 
nations.  I  was  down  in  Chicago  a  year 
ago  with  President  Kelsch.  I  had  been 
down  in  the  Southern  States  and  in  the 
Southwestern  States  also.  I  am  glad 
that  in  Chicago  and  in  other  cities  in 
our  land  the  Elders  are  not  afraid  to 
stand  up  and  defend  every  principle  of 
the  Gospel.    We  are  living  in  a  land 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


2:) 


of  liberty.  It  is  a  land  upon  whic 
God  has  decreed  to  establish  and  main- 
tain His  government  forever.  I  am 
glad  therefore.  that  these  El- 
ders dare  to  defend  the  truth, 
no  matter  what  it  is.  God  bless 
them.  The  more  the  truth  is  assailed 
the  more  of  the  Holy  Ghost  they  enjoy 
in  defending  it.  After  a  while  God  wijl 
rule  upon  this  land.  He  said  that  Jesus 
Christ  should  be  the  king  of  this  land 
and  no  human  king  should  reign  here. 
It  was  a  foregone  conclusion  that  Max- 
imilian could  not  remain  Emperor  of 
Mexico,  for  this  is  a  land  of  freedom. 
God  laid  the  foundations  of  it  that  He 
might  bring  forth  His  Church  and  es- 
tablish His  Priesthood  upon  this  land. 
Therefore,  I  say  do  not  forget  that  you 
are  Latter-dav  Saints.  At  the  same 
time  we  can  remember  the  injunction 
of  Jesus.  He  said:  "Make  to  your- 
selves friends  of  the  mammon  of  un- 
righteousness." If  you  will  follow  His 
counsel  you  won't  forget  that,  and  you 
can  make  to  yourselves  friends  of  the 
mammon  of  unrighteousness  without 
being  unrighteous  yourself. 

I  am  going  to  read  to  you  this  beauti- 
ful song  and  then  sit  down.  If  I  have 
said  anything  wrong,  I  am  willing  to  be 
corrected  by  President  Snow  or  any  of 
the  brethren.  I  want  to  learn  the 
truth.  I  want  to  be  controlled  by  the 
truth.  I  want  my  heart  to  be  in  the 
work  of  God.    I  do  not  want  to  have 


tiany  political  or  financial  interests  which 
would  make  the  work  of  God  secondary. 

'And  they  shall  lift  up  their  voice, 
and  with  the  voice  together  sing  this 
new  song,  saying: 

"The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion. 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  His  people, 
Israel, 

According  to  the  election  of  grace, 
Which  was  brought  to  pass  by  the  faith 
And  covenant  of  their  fathers. 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  His  people, 
And  Satan  is  bound  and  time  is  no 
longer; 

The  Lord  hath  gathered  all  things  in 
one; 

The  Lord  hath  brought  down  Zion  from 
above. 

The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from 
beneath. 

"The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought 

forth  her  strength; 
And  truth  is  established  in  her  bowels; 
And  the  heavens  have  smiled  upon  her; 
And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of  her 

God; 

For  He  stands  in  the  midst  of  His 
oeople. 

"Glory,  and  honor  and  power  and  might, 
Be  ascribed  to  our  God;  for  He  is  full 

of  mercy, 
Justice,  grace  and  truth  and  Deace, 
For  ever  and  ever,  amen." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  respect  the 
Prophet  of  God,  listen  to  his  counsel 
and  do  not  seek  to  give  him  counsel. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the 
Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 


SECOND  DAY. 


Oct.  6,  10  a.  m. — The  choir  and  congre- 
gation sang  the  hymn  which  begins: 
Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue. 

Prayer  by  Elder  George  Reynolds. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  millennial  morn. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

I  want  to  say  just  a  few  words.  What 
I  say  may  not  be  necessary  to  a  large 
portion  of  this  audience,  but  I  want 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  understand 
and  think  of  the  object  of  their  coming 
together.  It  is  only  once  in  six 
months  that  we  have  such  an  oppor~ 


tunity  as  we  have  today,  and  I  wish 
to  remind  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
the  advantages  we  receive  today  or  to- 
morrow, while  gathered  here,  will  be 
according  to  the  spirit  that  we  exer- 
cise individually.  The  Elders  may  ad- 
dress you  here,  and  yet  no  particular 
advantage  is  secured  unless  you  have 
the  spirit  and  exercise  the  faith  that 
it  is  our  privilege  to  exercise,  that  we 
may  be  blessed  to  understand  such 
things  as  may  be  spoken.  We  had  a 
beautiful  meeting  yesterday,  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  poured  out 
greatly  upon  the  Elders  who  spoke.  We 
wish  the  same  today,    and  we  would 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


like  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  forget 
everything  outside  of  the  meeting,  and 
try  to  exercise  faith  that  the  speakers 
may  advance  such  principles  as  will  be 
most  to  our  service. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 
TempleTwork — Baptism  for  the  dead — To  be  born 
of  water  and  of  the  Spirit — Be  diligent  in  the 
Search  for  Genealogies — Work  of  thellGenea- 
lcgical  Society — Missionaries  should  keep 
records — Religion  classes.  " 

Our  meetings  were  enjoyed  very  much 
yesterday,  and  to  me  they  were  spiritual 
feasts.  I  hope  that  our  meetings  today 
and  tomorrow  may  be  like  them,  that 
we  may  enjoy  a  rich  portion  of  the 
Holy  Spirit. 

I  was  much  impressed  yesterday  with 
Brother  Clawson's  remarks  concerning 
temple  work.  I  thought  to  myself, 
What  a  glorious  principle  this  is!  How 
thankful  we  are  that  the  Lord  brought 
this  forth  through  His  servant  Joseph. 
It  was  in  the  latter  years  of  his  life 
that  he  was  more  deeply  impressed  to 
lay  this  matter  of  salvation  for  the 
dead  before  the  Saints;  but  it  was  not  a 
new  principle.  Though  he  preached  and 
wrote  upon  this  subject  a  year  or  two 
only  before  his  death,  still  we  find  this 
principle  referred  to  in  the  revelations 
given  to  him  in  the  early  years  of  the 
Church.  In  that  glorious  vision  given 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Sidney  Rig- 
don  concerning  the  different  glories,  we 
are  told  about  a  certain  class  that  had 
not  received  the  Gospel  while  alive,  but 
had  received  it  in  prison  after  death. 
This  shows  that  the  Lord  gave  His 
Saints  to  understand  at  that  early  day 
that  there  is  an  opportunity  for  salva- 
tion after  death.  It  manifests  the  great 
mercy  of  God,  and  places  salvation  be- 
yond the  narrow  bounds  within  which 
it  is  placed  by  other  denominations. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  could  not  have  re- 
ceived this  from  man,  because  man  did 
not  teach  this  doctrine.  It  was  re- 
vealed to  him,  and  he  gave  it  unto  the 
people.  In  looking  upon  and  examin- 
ing this  principle,  we  cannot  help  but 
be.  struck  with  the  wisdom  and  mercy 
of  God  in  providing  salvation  for  the 
many,  many  millions  that  have  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Even 
before  this  allusion  to  the  principle  of 
salvation  for  the  dead  was  made,  it  was 
given  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph.  That 
first  night  when  he  received  a  visit 
from  the  Angel  Moroni,  the  angel  ex- 


plained to  him  several  principles  that 
were  not  known  to  the  world,  and  he 
also  explained  several  chapters  of  the 
prophets.  Among  others,  he  alluded  to 
the  prophecy  in  Malachi,  to  the  effect 
that  Elijah  should  be  sent  to  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers  and 
the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children. 
"Who  had  understood  the  deep  meaning 
in  these  words?  When  the  Lord  re- 
vealed more  to  Joseph  we  began  to  un- 
derstand it,  and  now  we  know  that  that 
prophecy  pertains  to  salvation  for  the 
dead.  I  suppose  that  the  boy  Joseph 
did  not  understand  the  import  of  the 
prophecy  at  the  time,  but  the  Lord 
wanted  these  things  brought  forth. 
They  were  not  evolved  as  the  Church 
grew,  but  they  were  principles  given 
before  the  world  was.  Hence  in  these 
first  revelations  to  the  Prophet  they 
are  pointed  at  and  indicated,  and  grad- 
ually, as  the  people  were  ready  for 
them,  they  were  explained. 

These  principles  are  not  new.  They 
were  understood  by  the  prophets  of 
old  and  by  the  writers  of  the  New 
Testament.  Paul  alludes  to  the  or- 
dinance of  baptism  for  the  dead.  I  have 
attended  several  funerals  in  England, 
and  I  have  been  surprised  to  hear  them 
repeat  the  29th  verse  of  the  15th  chap- 
ter of  I  Corinthians: 

"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all?  Why  are  they  then  bap- 
tized for  the  dead?" 

How  few  understood  the  meaning  of 
the  words  in  this  verse!  Paul  under- 
stood them,  and  I  believe  the  first-day 
Saints  understood  this  principle  clearly, 
for  Paul  uses  this  as  an  argument  in 
favor  of  the  resurrection.  What  would 
be  the  use  of  being  baptized  for  the 
dead  if  the  dead  rose  not?  That  was 
his  argument.  The  Saints  no  doubt 
practiced  the  principle  in  those  days, 
because  we  find  in  the  Church  after- 
wards that  decrees  were  made  against 
the  custom  of  being  baptized  for  the 
dead.  Some  ten  hundred  years  after,  up 
in  Russia,  when  some  of  their  princes 
were  converted  to  Christianity,  they 
felt  impressed  to  ask  for  that  ordinance 
to  be  performed  for  their  forefathers. 
Whether  they  had  any  knowledge  from 
the  history  of  the  first-day  Saints,  or 
not,  I  do  not  know;  but  such  an  or- 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


25 


dinance  was  actually  performed  in  Rus- 
sia. The  Apostle  Peter  undertood  the 
principle  of  salvation  for  the  dead,  and 
our  Savior  understood  it,  and,  I  believe, 
laid  it  before  the  congregation  in  Naz- 
areth. After  he  had  been  out  teaching 
and  returned  to  his  home  at  Nazareth, 
he  was  called  upon  to  read  from  the 
roll,  as  was  the  custom  in  their  syna- 
gogues, and  when  it  was  handed  to 
him  he  read  from  the  61st  chapter  of 
Isaiah.  When  I  was  in  Nazareth  I 
visited  that  synagogue  (at  least,  they 
tell  us  its  is  the  same),  and  when  I 
stood  inside  that  old  building,  I  won- 
dered where  He  had  stood  when  He 
spoke  on  that  occasion,  and  I  thought 
of  the  glorious  doctrine  that  He  alluded 
to — salvation  for  the  dead.  I  wish  to 
read  a  few  verses  from  this  chapter: 

"The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  God  is  upon 
me;  because  the  Lord  has  anointed 
me  to  preach  good  tidings  unto  the 
meek;  he  hath  sent  me  to  bind  up  the 
broken-hearted,  to  proclaim  liberty  to 
the  captives,  and  the  opening  of  the 
prison  to  them  that  are  bound; 

I 

"To  proclaim  the  acceptable  year  of 
the  Lord,  and  the  day  of  vengeance  of 
our  God;  to  comfort  all  that  mourn." 

He  read  these  verses,  which  describe 
His  own  mission.  Among  other  things, 
His  mission,  He  tells  us,  was  to  liberate 
the  captives  and  to  open  their  prison 
doors.  This  part  of  His  mission  He  did 
not  f  Jifill  while  living  in  the  flesh,  so 
far  as  we  have  any  account,  but  we 
have  an  account  that  He  fulfilled  it 
afterwards.  Peter  tells  us  that  He 
preached  to  the  spirits  in  prison— those 
that  Job  speaks  of  when  he  says  that 
they  should  be  brought  forth  out  of  the 
pit  and  out  of  their  prison.  Jesus  went 
and  opened  their  prison  doors;  He  led 
captivity  captive;  He  brought  joy  to 
the  many  millions  that  were  waiting  in 
prison,  for  His  coming,  who  were  there 
because  at  one  time  they  had  rejected 
the  Gospel.  They  belonged  to  the  ante- 
diluvians, and  when  Noah  preached  the 
Gospel  to  them  they  rejected  him; 
hence  they  had  a  long  time  to  wait,  but 
finally  the  joyful  tidings  came  to  their 
prison  house.  Jesus  went  and  preached 
the  Gospel  to  them,  and  salvation  was 
offered  to  them  once  more.  They  had 
learned  by  sad  experience  what  it 
meant  to  reject  the  Gospel. 


This  doctrine  of  salvation  for  the 
dead  docs  not  have  the  effect,  as  some 
f=ay,  to  make  men  neglect  the  present 
opportunity,  thinking  that  there  will  al- 
ways be  a  chance  for  them.  For  there 
is  punishment  meted  out  to  those  who 
reject  the  Gospel.  It  was  a  long  time 
for  the  antediluvians  to  wait  before 
the  door  of  grace  was  opened  unto 
them.  We  endeavor  to  impress  upon  the 
hearts  of  men  the  necessity  of  repenting 
and  of  living  according  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God  in  this  life.  We 
want  all  men  to  understand  that  there 
is  a  law  which  must  be  obeyed  by  every 
one  who  shall  enter  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Jesus  laid  it  down  to  Nicodemus 
when  he  said  that  no  man  can  enter 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  except  he  is 
born  of  the  water  and  of  the 
spirit.  The  many  millions  that  have 
passed  away  without  having  obeyed 
this  ordinance,  if  they  shall  enter 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  must  be  born 
of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  and  as  this 
cannot  be  done  in  the  spirit  world,  God 
has  provided  that  that  ordinance  may 
be  performed  for  them  here  upon  the 
earth.  We  cannot  avoid  obedience  to 
this  law  and  still  be  permitted  to  enter 
the  kingdom  of  God.  Here  is  the 
mercy  and  grace  of  God  manifested  un- 
to His  children,  in  that  He  has  devised 
means  whereby  they  can  receive  the 
blessings  even  after  they  have  departed 
from  this  life.  You  who  have  entered 
the  Temples  of  God  and  performed  or- 
dinances for  your  dead,  know  what  a 
glorious  work  it  is.  Tou  have  unself- 
ishly labored  for  your  relatives,  and 
you  have  been  blessed  in  doing  so,  for 
your  testimonies  have  been  strength- 
ened, and  you  have  felt  that  you  were 
in  the  presence  of  departed  beings,  and 
that  you  were  bringing  blessings  unto 
them. 

The  reason  why  I  dwell  on  this  sub- 
ject this  morning  is  because  many  of 
the  Saints  who  are  imbued  with  a  love 
for  their  relatives,  and  who  would  like 
to  enter  the  Temples  and  do  work  for 
them,  cannot  do  so  because  they  have 
not  their  genealogy.  Now,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  we  want  you  to  be  dili- 
gent in  your  search  for  genealogies. 
For  this  is  a  day  in  which  the  hearts  of 
the  children  are  turned  unto  the 
fathers.     As  soon  as  the  Prophet  Jo- 


26 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


seph  brought  this  doctrine  before  the 
world  and  the  necessity  arose  of 
searching  for  the  fathers,  the  hearts  of 
the  people  were  turned  that  way.  The 
Lord  worked  on  the  hearts  of  men,  gen- 
ealogical societies  sprang  up  every- 
where; men  began  to  search  for  the 
the  names  of  their  forefathers,  and 
many  works  have  been  published  on 
this  subject.  Those  who  put  forth  these 
efforts  had  no  idea  of  salvation  for  the 
dead,  but  the  work  of  these  devoted 
men  has  come  to  the  Saints  as  a  very 
great  blessing.  We  want  to  gather  up 
all  we  can  in  this  regard.  Many  of  the 
Saints  are  not  acquainted,  perhaps,  with 
the  fact  that  we  have  a  genealogical 
society  in  our  midst.  We  have  some 
four  hundred  volumes  on  genealogies, 
and  we  want  to  get  more.  We  would 
like  to  get  all  that  is  published,  both 
in  England  and  in  this  country,  that 
can  be  of  any  aid  to  the  Saints;  and 
as  the  same  spirit  works  upon  the 
hearts  of  men  in  Germany,  Denmark 
and  other  countries,  we  want  to 
gather  the  information  collected 
there.  They  are  working  now  in  those 
countries  in  this  direction. 
In  Denmark,  Sweden  and  Norway  it 
will  be  a  difficult  task  to  gather  genealo- 
gies, on  account  of  the  change  that  for- 
merly took  place  in  names,  the  children 
being  called  after  the  first  name  of  the 
father.  This  changes  the  surname  from 
one  generation  to  another,  like  it  was 
in  olden  times.  In  the  Bible  we  read 
of  Simon  Bar-jona.  "Bar"  means 
son — Simon  Jonason.  Hence  it  is  hard 
to  trace  the  names  of  families  in  those 
countries.  Yet  there  are  several  ar- 
chives in  Denmark  where  we  can  obtain 
genealogy,  and  as  the  opportunity  opens' 
in  Sweden  and  Norway  we  want  to 
have  brethren  there  to  work  in  this  line. 
We  have  agents  in  Germany  and  Swit- 
zerland, so  that  our  German  and  Swiss 
brethren  can  be  helped  in  getting  names 
of  their  relatives.  The  same  may  be  said 
concerning  New  England.  The  society 
is  trying  to  open  communication  with 
all  the  countries  from  where  the  Saints 
have  come.  Now  it  costs  a  little  to  get 
work  of  this  kind  done,  and  we  would 
like  our  brethren  who  are  interested  in 
obtaining  genealogy  to  become  mem- 
bers of  the  society.  It  requires  only  a 
small  entrance  fee,  and  you  will  get 


that  back  in  paying  less  for  your  names 
and  in  having  the  chance  to  visit  the 
library  and  search  the  books  that  are 
already  on  hand.  All  that  is  paid  in  will 
go  toward  increasing  our  library  of  gen- 
ealogical works.  I  hope  that  this  mat- 
ter will  be  remembered  by  the  Saints. 
If  you  write  to  the  Genealogical  Soci- 
ety at  the  Historian's  office,  you  can 
obtain  all  the  information  we  can  give 
you  and  we  will  help  you  to  get  more. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  in  regard 
to  records.  We  advise  our  missionaries 
to  keep  diaries  on  their  missions  and  to 
jot  down  the  events  of  their  lives.  These 
by  and  by  will  be  very  precious.  Many 
of  our  brethren  from  the  early  decades 
of  the  Church  have  kept  records.  We 
would  like  to  get  hold  of  these  day- 
books at  the  Historian's  office,  sq  that 
if  there  is  any  new  matter  or  anything 
that  might  give  a  sidelight  upon  events 
already  known,  we  may  obtain  the  in- 
formation. We  have  men  at  the  office, 
such  as  Andrew  Jenson  and  others,  who 
are  well  .acquainted  with  the  events  of 
our  Church  history,  and  who  can  soon 
gather  out  of  such  day-books  things 
that  are  not  known  and  that  will  be  a 
help  to  us.  We  would  not 
ask  children  who  have  possession 
of  their  father's  records  to  give 
them  to  the  office;  but  if  they  would 
lend  them  to  us,  we  would  gather  from 
them  what  would  be  of  use  in  our 
Church  history.  There  may  be  some 
who  would  like  to  have  them  deposited 
in  the  Historian's  office,  and  we  would 
be  glad  to  take  them,  mark  them,  and 
keep  them  safely.  We  are  a  people  that 
make  history  every  day;  but  we  want 
this  history  written  by  ourselves.  When 
you  read  history  you  find  many  a  char- 
acter that  is  described  to  you  far  dif- 
ferent from  the  reality,  because 
his  history  has  been  written  by 
an  enemy.  Many  of  the  sects  that  have 
sprung  up  since  the  days  of  the  Apos- 
tles have  been  represented  to  us  in  a 
very  unfavorable  light,  because  their 
histories  were  written  by  their  enemies. 
We  do  not  want  coming  generations  to 
read  our  history  in  a  different  light 
from  the  real  truth. 

Before  I  sit  down  there  is  another 
matter  that  I  would  like  to  lay  before 
our  brethren.  It  is  now  time  for  school. 
During  the  summer  months  our  religion 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 


classes  have  not  been  maintained,  ex- 
cept in  a  few  places.  Now  that  the 
school  year  has  commenced  we  hope 
that  the  superintendents  and  teachers 
of  religion  classes  will  see  to  it  that  the 
classes  are  again  started  and  that  re- 
newed interest  is  taken  in  this  good 
work.  We  have  just  issued  a  new  edi- 
tion of  outlines,  explaining  the  religion 
class  movement  and  the  procedure,  and 
any  of  our  superintendents  or  teachers 
can  obtain  this  by  writing  to  Superin- 
tendent Maeser.  "We  hope  that  this 
work  will  not  lag,  but  that  we  will  all 
see  the  necessity  of  giving  our  children 
that  kind  of  education  that  they  can- 
not obtain  in  our  district  schools,  and 
that  we  cannot  give  at  home  because 
we  have  not  the  time.  This  religion 
class  movement  has  been  established  in 
order  that  our  children  may  be  trained 
religiously  as  well  as  mentally  and 
physically,  and  I  trust  that  we  will  not 
neglect  it.  May  God  bless  you,  breth- 
ren and  sisters;  may  our  conference  be 
a  feast  indeed  unto  all  present,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

"My  Shepherd  is  the  Lord  my  God" 
was  sung  by  Sister  Luella  Ferrin. 

ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

Proper  care  of  Ohildrer — The  duties  of  Teachers — 
Consequences  of  neglecting  the  people — The 
duty  of  paying  tithing — Promise  of  a  man  like 
utto  Moses. 

I  have  heard  it  remarked  that  it  paid 
a  good  many  people  to  come  to  confer- 
ence to  hear  the  singing  alone.  But  a 
great  many  things  are  treated  upon  in 
the  general  conference  which  supply 
many  wants  and  answer  many  inquiries 
among  the  Saints.  We  are  here  for 
mutual  improvement  and  for  instruc- 
tions which  will  apply  to  us  when  we 
get  home.  There  is  no  doubt  in  my 
mind  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints 
throughout  the  Church  were  fully  up 
to  their  duties  we  would  have  condi- 
tions superior  to  what  they  are  now. 
There  is  a  laxity  on  the  part  of  many 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believe, 
however,  the  Saints  are  improving.  Still 
there  is  room  for  more  improvement  in 
the  affairs  of  our  lives.  We  have  an 
organization  in  this  Church  which  the 
Lord  has  given  us.  It  was  not  insti- 
tuted by  man,  but  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.   This  organization  has 


been  multiplied  somewhat  in  the  last 
few  years,  and  no  doubt  will  be  multi- 
plied more  in  the  future  as  we  advance 
and  become  better  acquainted  with  the 
Gospel.  There  are  a  great  many  of 
our  young  people  born  and  reared  in 
these  mountains  who  need  our  care  and 
attention  as  well  as  that  of  their  par- 
ents. 

I  have  thouerht  sometimes  that  many 
fathers  and  mothers  do  not  give  that 
attention  to  their  children  which  they 
ought  to  have.  They  turn  them  over 
to  the  organizations  of  the  Church;  in 
the  first  place,  to  the  Primary,  and  then 
to  other  associations  as  they  grow  old- 
er; and  they  neglect  them  at  home.  I 
have  heard  young  men  say  that  their 
fathers  never  asked  them  to  pray  in  the 
family,  and  I  have  heard  girls  say  the 
same.  This  shows  a  lack  of  attention 
on  the  part  of  parents.  I  am  quite  con- 
fident that  many  of  the  organizations  in 
the  Church  are  neglected.  Take  for  in- 
stance, the  Teacher's  quorum.  Every 
ward  in  the  Church  is  supposed  to  have 
efficient  men  to  labor  as  Teachers 
among  the  people.  I  believe  that  this 
important  organization  in  the  ward  is 
in  many  instances,  materially  neglected. 
If  the  duties  of  Teachers  were  carried 
out  as  the  Lord  designed  they  should 
be,  we  would  see  a  marked  improve- 
ment in  the  midst  of  the  peonle.  These 
Teachers  are  not  confined  to  spiritual 
things.  They  can  talk  and  advise  about 
temporal  things  also.  In  many  in- 
stances, however,  Teachers'  visits  are 
hurried  over  while  in  others  they  are  put 
off.  If  the  Teacher  is  expected  to  visit 
once  a  month,  he  puts  it  off  till  the  last 
day  before  the  Bishop  requires  him  to 
report,  and  then  he  hurries  around  and 
does  not  take  the  time  that  ought  to  be 
taken.  I  know  whereof  I  speak  in  re- 
gard to  this  matter,  because  in  the 
early  days  I  was  trained  under  Brother 
Jedediah  M.  Grant.  When  the  Teachers 
in  the  district  where  he  labored  all  did 
their  duty,  it  was  called  a  reformation. 
We  had  quite  a  reformation  in  all  the 
Church  at  that  time.  I  remember 
very  distinctly  in  the  ward  where  I 
lived,  Brother  Grant  on  one  occasion 
called  all  the  Teachers  to  the  stand.  We 
met  in  the  bowery,  and  had  a  board 
about  sixteen  feet  long,  put  on  some 
posts  for  the  stand.   There  were  twelve 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  us  in  the  ward,  and  we  had  to  stand 
up  there  in  a  row.  He  wanted  us  all 
to  pray,  each  one  in  his  turn,  com- 
mencing on  the  right  and  going  to  the 
left.  Someone  asked  Brother  Grant 
afterward  why  he  did  that,  and 
he  replied  that  he  wanted  to 
see  whether  those  young  men 
had  the  spirit  of  prayer,  so  that  he 
could  judge  if  they  prayed  in  the  house- 
holds of  the  Saints.  I  was  quite  a  boy 
at  the  time,  and  when  it  came  to  my 
turn  I  hesitated  a  moment  or  so. 
Brother  Grant  happened  to  be  kneel- 
ing right  behind  me,  and  he  turned 
around,  grabbed  me  by  the  leg  with  his 
hand  and  said,  "Now,  you  pray."  Well, 
it  nearly  scared  all  the  pray  out  of 
me.  But  it  was  an  object  lesson  and  one 
that  was  very  profitable  to  me.  How 
many  of  the  Teachers  who  go  into  your 
homes,  gather  the  family  together  and 
pray  with  the  family  or  ask  some  of  the 
family  to  pray?  I  question  whether 
this  is  very  strictly  attended  to.  Now, 
it  is  the  Teacher's  duty  to  talk  about 
all  matters  of  interest  to  the  Saints, 
connected  with  the  kingdom  of  God.  It 
,  is  their  business  to  inquire  of  the  fam- 
ily if  they  pay  their  tithes  and  offerings, 
that  the  poor  may  be  sustained  and  the 
hands  of  the  Bishop  upheld.  In  going 
into  the  congregations  of  the  Saints  it  is 
very  seldom  that  I  hear  an  Elder  pray 
for  the  Bishop,  or  for  his  counselors, 
or  for  the  Teachers.  Teachers  need  not 
discuss  the  condition  of  the  weather,  for 
this  is  not  part  of  their  duty.  They 
should  go  into  the  houses  of  the  Saints 
enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that 
they  may  have  a  refreshing  from  the 
Lord  with  that  family.  They  go  there 
to  bless  the  family  and  to  do  them  good, 
and  in  order  to  do  this  successfully 
they  must  concentrate  their  minds  on 
the  object  of  their  labor  in  the  midst  of 
the  people.  By  these  means  the  Saints 
are  instructed  in  their  homes.  When 
we  find  invalids  in  the  households  of 
the  Saints  who  are  unable  to  attend  the 
gatherings  of  the  people  we  can  com- 
fort and  bless  them.  If  this  were  car- 
ried out  as  the  Lord  has  designed  it, 
the  people  would  become  more  and 
more  united,  and  they  would  be  deter- 
mined to  do  their  duty  in  paying  their 
tithes  and  offerings  and  in  attending 
their    meetings.     If    the    tea'chers  did 


their  duty  in  every  ward,  people  would 
feel  that  they  ought  to  go  to  meeting. 
I  have  heard  people  say,  "We  have  not 
seen  a  Teacher  in  our  house  for  a  year,'r 
or  for  six  months,  as  the  case  may  be. 
This  is  not  as  the  Lord  designed  it  and 
there  is  some  responsibility  resting  up- 
on the  presidents  of  Stakes  and  their 
counselors  in  regard  to  this  matter. 
The  Lord  gave  a  revelation  to  President 
Taylor  in  his  time  on  this  subject.  It 
does  not  matter  how  isolated  the  Saints 
may  live,  they  are  in  somebody's  ward, 
and  they  should  be  sought  after  if  it 
takes  two  or  three  days  to  find  them. 
I  can  remember  when  Brother  Preston 
was  president  of  the  Cache  Stake  and 
I  was  one  of  his  counselors,  it  took  us 
just  one  month  to  get  around  the  Stake 
and  visit  the  Saints,  and  then  we  could 
not  get  to  all  the  wards.  The  Stake  at 
that  time  ran  from  Logan  to  the  Mon- 
tana line.  Stakes  now  are  smaller,  and 
they  are  within  the  reach  of  every 
President.  The  wards  are  within  the 
reach  of  every  Bishop,  and  the  teachers 
can  find  the  people,  if  they  are  so  in- 
clined. Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes 
should  be  aroused  to  the  importance 
of  this  matter,  because  when  the  people 
are  neglected,  the  Church  is  neglected, 
the  poor  are  neglected,  the  tithes  and 
offerings  are  neglected.  Hence  we  can- 
not afford,  as  officers  in  the  Church,  to 
neglect  our  duty.  If  we  do  the  Lord  will 
hold  us  to  account  for  it. 

I  believe  that  a  president  of  a  Stake 
should  have  a  meeting  with  his  coun- 
selors at  least  every  week.  They  should 
sit  down  together,  sing  and  pray  to- 
gether, and  see  what  the  Lord  will 
suggest  to  be  done  in  that  Stake  of 
Zion.  I  think  Apostle  Lyman  has  ad- 
vocated this  idea.  I  do  not  know  how 
far  it  is  attended  to,  but  I  say  to  you, 
my  brethren,  it  ought  to  be  attended  to 
in  every  Stake  of  Zion.  Then,  follow- 
ing in  the  same  line,  every  Bish- 
op in  the  Church  should  meet 
with  his  counselors  and  talk  over  mat- 
ters pertaining  to  the  ward.  Just  as 
sure  as  you  do  this,  you  will  always 
find  something  to  talk  about  that  will 
be  of  interest  and  benefit  to  the  ward. 
If  we  do  not  come' up  to  the  expecta- 
tions of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
it  is  because  we  fail  to  some  extent. 
We  may  not  fail  as  individuals,  but  we 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


29 


fail  collectively.  If  we  all  did  our  duty 
the  Church  would  be  improved  and  the 
tithes  and  offerings  would  be  increased. 
I  understand  they  have  increased;  but 
they  have  not  increased  enough  yet,  be- 
cause the  Saints  throughout  the  Church 
do  not  all  pay  their  tithing.  We  call 
upon  all,  whether  in  the  Church  or  not, 
to  pay  their  tithing.  Some  who  are 
not  in  the  Church  will  do  it  if  you  call 
upon  them  and  ask  them.  Represent  to 
them  that  they  are  living  upon  the  land 
of  Zion  and  that  this  is  the  principle 
upon  which  the  land  is  to  be  sanctified 
and  to  bring  forth  of  its  strength,  and 
you  would  find  that  peopje  who  are  not 
in  the  Church  would  pay  their  tithing 
and  it  would  be  the  means  of  bringing 
them  into  the  Church,  because  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  would  work  upon 
them  and  He  would  manifest  Himself 
to  them  by  dream  and  by  vision,  until 
they  would  see  the  propriety  of  joining 
the  Church. 

These  are  questions  that  have  my  at- 
tention from  time  to  time,  and  I  think 
they  are  of  importance  to  the  Church. 
You  will  read  it  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  that  the  Lord  at  some  time 
•or  other  was  going  to  raise  up  a  man 
like  unto  Moses,  to  lead  the  people  out 
of  bondage.  Well,  that  man  may  be 
President  Snow,  for  aught  I  know.  The 
Lord  seems  to  be  working  upon  his 
mind  to  try  and  lead  His  people  out  of 
bondage.  President  Snow  is  working 
at  it  all  the  time.  He  wants  to  get 
the  Church  and  the  people  out  of  bond- 
age. Therefore,  I  say,  the  man  like 
unto  Moses  may  be  President  Snow,  for 
aught  I  know.  I  do  not  know  who  it 
is.  If  it  is  not  President  Snow,  it  will 
be  some  man  a  great  deal  like  him, 
whom  the  Lord  will  raise  up  in  a 
natural  way. 

I  was  much  delighted  with  the  re- 
marks of  Brother  Clawson  and  Brother 
Lund  in  regard  to  Temple  work.  I  can 
bear  testimony  that  they  are  true.  The 
Lord  manifsts  Himself  unto  His  Saints 
in  the  Temples.  These  manifestations 
are  private.  They  are  not  talked 
abroad,  but  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  entered  into  these 
sacred  places  have  had  manifestations 
:from  God  in  approval  of  the  work  they 
were  doing  for  their  kindred  dead.  Let 

us  not  neglect  this  important  thing,  in 


connection  with  the  other  duties  that 
pertain  to  our  calling. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  the 
Saints  and  fill  all  our  hearts  with  love 
toward  one  another;  that  we  may  put 
away  our  bickerings  and  our  fault- 
finding, and  turn  unto  the  Lord  with 
full  purpose  of  heart,  that  He  may  en- 
dow us  richly  with  His  Spirit;  that  our 
mission  on  the  earth  may  be  filled  up 
in  usefulness,  so  that  when  we  get 
through  it  may  be  said  of  us, Well  done 
good  and  faithful  servant,  enter  thou 
into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

BlndhIoogd8epitrf:lrnH,ble^Sing  p0wer  of  th°  Meat- 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  hum 
bly  pray  that  our  Father  who  is  in 
Heaven  will  bless  me  with  a  portion  of 
His  Holy  Spirit  this  afternoon,  that 
what  I  shall  say  may  be  in  accordance 
with  His  mind  and  will.  I  feel  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  all  that  I 
have  heard  during  this  conference.  I 
have  felt  so  much  like  we  always  feel, 
I  suppose,  at  our  conferences— that  this, 
is  one  of  the  best  conferences  that  I 
have  ever  attended. 

There  is  a  question  that  I  would  like 
to  speak  to  you  upon  a  little.  It 
seems  to  be  very  much  in  line  with  the 
remarks  of  several  of  the  previous 
speakers.  To  commence  with,  I  desire 
to  make  a  quotation  that  was  made  by 
Elder  Clawson  yesterday.  It  is  the 
words  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  to  Peter 
(Matt.  16,  13-19.)  the  presiding  Apostle! 
after  Peter  had  received  the  revelation 
from  God  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ 
Jesus  said: 

"Whom  do  men  say  that  I,  the  Son 
of  Man,  am? 

''And  they  said,  some  say  that  thou 
art  John  the  Baptist;  some  Elias;  and 
others,  Jeremiah,  or  one  of  the  pro- 
phets. 

"He  saith  unto  them,  but  whom  sav 
ye  that  I  am?  * 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said 
thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona- 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed 
it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven. 


30 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


"And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  that  thou 
art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will 
build  my  church;  and  the  gates  of  hell 
shall  not  prevail  against  it. 

"And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  and  whatso- 
ever thou  shalt  bind  on  earth,  shall  be 
bound  in  heaven;  and  whatsover  thou 
shalt  loose  on  earth,  shall  be  loosed  in 
heaven." 

It  is  the  latter  remark  I  wish  to  re- 
fer to  more  particularly.  Peter  at  that 
time  held  the  same  position  that  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow  holds  today,  and 
this  was  a  very  great  endowment  that 
he  received  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
to  bind  on  earth  and  it  should  be  bound 
in  heaven,  or  to  loose  on  earth,  and  it 
should  be  loosed  in  heaven.  This  same 
power  has  been  bestowed  in  these  days. 
It  is  our  custom  when  we 
marry  a  wife  to  go  to  the 
man  who  holds  this  great  power 
and  by  His  authority  we  are  sealed  to- 
gether in  the  holy  bonds  of  matrimony 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  according 
to  the  promise  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  we  will  be  husband  and  wife  in 
eternity.  There  are  many  other  eter- 
nal blessings  that  have  been  given  un- 
to the  children  of  men.  I  wish  to  re- 
fer to  a  great  promise  that  the  Lord 
made  unto  Abraham,  our  forefather. 
The  Lord  was  very  much  pleased  with 
Abraham  and  his  course  in  life.  But 
Abraham  would  be  a  very  unpopular 
man  today.  Out  of  all  the  millions  of 
people  that  dwelt  upon  the  earth  then, 
the  Lord  saw  fit  on  one  occasion  to 
visit  His  servant  Abraham,  and  while 
He  was  there  He  gave  him  command- 
ments.    He  said  unto  Abraham: 

"Get  thee  out  of  thy  country,  and 
from  thy  kindred,  and  from  thy  father's 
house,  unto  a  land  that  I  will  shew 
thee; 

"And  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  na- 
tion, and  I  will  bless  thee,  and  make 
thy  name  great;  and  thou  shalt  be  a 
blessing; 

"And  I  will  bless  them  that  bless 
thee,  and  curse  them  that  curseth  thee; 
and  in  thee  shall  all  families  of  the 
earth  be  blessed." 

Here  is  another  instance  of  a 
man  whom  the  Lord  visited  and 
conferred  divine  authority  upon, 
to  bless  the  children  of  men, 
and  they  should  be  blessed,  or  to 
curse  them  and  they  should  be  cursed, 
in  accordance  with  the  authority,  Abra- 


ham blessed  his  son  Isaac;  Isaac 
blessed  his  son  Jacob;  Jacob  blessed  his 
twelve  sons  from  his  four  wives,  and 
they  became  the  founders  of  the  house 
of  Israel.  In  this  Jacob  officiated  as 
a  Patriarch,  and  he  not  only  blessed 
his  sons,  but  he  prophesied  what  should 
befall  them,  even  unto  the  latest  day. 

I  refer  to  these  instances  that  we  may 
have  before  our  minds  the  fact  that  it 
has  been  the  custom  in  various  ages 
of  the  world  to  exercise  this  divine  au- 
thority for  the  benefit  of  the  children 
of  men.  Enoch,  the  Prophet  of  God, 
also  officiated  in  this  Patriarchial  or- 
der, and  Enoch  was  a  friend  of  God. 
The  Lord  our  God  talked  unto  him  as 
one  man  talks  to  another,  and  Enoch 
became  so  familiar  with  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Father  that  he  not  only  led 
his  people  out  of  bondage,  but  he 
brought  them  to  see  eye  to  eye.  They 
became  of  one  heart  and  of  one  mind, 
and  the  Lord  was  so  pleased  with  them 
that  He  took  Enoch  and  his  city  unto 
Himself. 

I  wish  to  draw  your  attention  es- 
pecially to  the  Patriarchial  order 
that  has  been  revealed  in  these  last 
days  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God.  We  have  a  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  patriarchal 
order  in  our  Church.  That  man  is 
Brother  John  Smith.  He  always  sits 
here  with  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  Why  is  it  that  he  occupies 
this  exalted  position  when  sitting  be- 
fore the  people  in  their  general  confer- 
ences? It  is  because  the  Lord  acknowl- 
edges a  Patriarch  as  a  man  who  is  en- 
dowed with  a  very  high  office  in 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  and 
who  has  a  special  endowment  given  un- 
to him  for  a  special  purpose.  If  there 
is  any  man  in  this  Church  who  has  a 
special  calling  for  life  it  is  a  Patriarch. 
I  have  sometimes  thought,  however, 
from  remarks  which  I  have  heard  from 
men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood,  that 
the  ignorance  regarding  the  Patriarch- 
al order  is  extremely  dense  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

In  order  that  you  may  better  under- 
stand my  remarks,  I  wish  to  refer  to  a 
conversation  that  I  had  the  other  day 
with  a  gentleman  in  one  of  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.  One  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
had  been  around  in  that  locality,  mak- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


3 


ing  some  changes  in  the  ward.  What 
is  the  duty  of  the  Apostles?  We  are 
informed  by  the  Apostle  Paul  that  they 
are  placed  in  the  Church  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ,  and  to  bring  the  people 
to  a  unity  of  the  faith.  All  these  men 
on  my  right  and  on  my  left  are  engaged 
in  this  kind  of  a  calling  from  one  year's 
end  to  another.  As  I  was  saying,  one 
of  the  Twelve  had  been  around  and  he 
found  a  certain  Bishop  presiding  over  a 
ward.  He  felt  impressed  that  it  would 
be  well  to  make  a  change  in  that  ward. 
The  Bishop  was  quite  aged,  but  he  had 
been  a  faithful  man  all  his  days;  so 
faithful  indeed  that  this  Apostle  felt 
impressed  that  if  he  could  get  the  con- 
sent of  the  First  Presidency  this  man 
should  be  ordained  a  Patriarch.  The 
change  was  accordingly  made.  What 
was  the  result?  This  Bishop  began  to 
complain  immediately  that  he  had  been 
laid  upon  the  shelf,  and  that  he  had 
been  dropped  from  his  calling  as  a 
Bishop  without  receiving  any  special 
notice  that  this  change  was  going  to 
take  place  in  his  ward. 

Before  proceeding  any  further,  let  me 
explain  a  moment.  As  I  understand  the 
order  of  this  Church,  a  man  who  is 
called  to  be  a  Bishop  is  called  to  that 
office  for  the  especial  purpose  of  looking 
after  the  business  affairs  of 
that  ward,  and  when  through 
old  age,  sickness  or  incapacity 
he  becomes  disqualified  to  perform  the 
duties  of  that  office,  or  when  through 
his  faithfulness  he  is  called  to  a  greater 
ordination  in  the  Church,  it  is  right 
and  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God  that 
this  change  should  take  place.  When 
the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church 
informs  a  Bishop  that  he  is  released 
from  presiding  over  a  certain  ward, 
there  is  just  as  much  propriety  about  it 
as  there  would  be  if  that  man  were  pre- 
siding over  a  mission  and  he  were  re- 
leased from  that  mission  by  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church.  I  am  now  called 
to  preside  over  the  Colorado  mission.  I 
do  not  expect  that  I  shall  stay  there 
all  the  balance  of  my  life,  and  if  I  re- 
ceive a  release  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church  at  any  time  in  the 
future,  I  assure  you  I  shall  never  enter 
any  complaint  against  them,  or  any- 
body else,  rc>r  being  released.    I  want 


to  say  to  the  Bishops  of  wards,  you  are 
not  called  there  for  life;  but  when  you 
are  released  from  your  Bishopric  your 
Priesthood  is  never  taken  away  from 
you,  except  through  transgression. 

Now  to  return  to  this  Bishop  of  whom 
I  was  speaking.  The  Apostle  had  felt 
inspired  of  God  to  recommend  to  the 
First  Presidency  of  this  Church  that 
said  Bishop  be  ordained  a  Patriarch. 
Did  that  man  appreciate  that  patri- 
archal order  which  was  bestowed  upon 
him?  No,  he  did  not.  Now,  let  me 
make  a  auotation  to  those  who  are 
laboring  in  this  calling: 

"The  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  in- 
separably connected  with  the  powers  of 
heaven,  and  the  powers  of  heaven  can- 
rot  be  controlled  nor  handled  only 
upon  the  principles  of  righteousness." 

This  man,  I  understand,  said  that  he 
had  never  received  the  spirit  of  the 
patriarchal  order.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  there  never  was  a  man  in  the 
Church  of  God  that  received  the  spirit 
of  any  calling  whereunto  he  was  called 
until  he  started  to  administer  in  that 
calling.  If  I  am  called  on  a  foreign 
mission  and  expect  to  get  the  spirit  of 
that  mission,  I  must  go  to  work  and 
prepare  myself  and  begin  to  seek  after 
the  Lord.  It  is  the  same  with  a  Patri- 
arch or  any  other  officer  in  the  Church 
of  God.  Now  regarding  this  change 
being  made  without  any  notice  to  the 
Bishop,  which  seemed  to  give  him  so 
much  offense.  There  is  no  man  under 
the  sound  of  my  voice  that  can  cite  me 
to  an  instance  where  the  Lord  has  ever 
said,  "I  will  come  and  tell  you  when 
1  will  need  you  for  some  other  kind  of 
a  work."  I  have  heard  this  kind  of 
talk  until  I  am  tired  of  it.  To  me 
its  always  an  indication  of  men's  ignor- 
ance concerning  the  glorious  promises 
connected  with  the  Holy  Priesthood.  I 
have  heard  of  an  instance  where  a  man 
said  that  he  had  been  laid  upon  the 
shelf.  I  have  heard  of  others  who  have 
actually  been  offered  the  privilege  of  be- 
ing ordained  a  Patriarch  and  have  re- 
fused it,  because  they  felt  like  they 
were  being  degraded  rather  than  ex- 
alted in  the  Priesthood.  I  say  again 
that  the  Lord  never  informs  people 
when  he  is  going  to  make  a  change.  In 
his  own  time  he  comes  and  makes  the 
change.  Let  us  see  what  one  of  the 
greatest   men   that   e'»r  lived,   m  my 


32 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE 


opinion,  said  when  a  change  of  this 
kind  was  made  with  him.  He  was  a 
man  whose  character  I  have  always  ad- 
mired. I  have  loved  his  memory,  and 
I  love  his  descendants  today.  As  I  re- 
member, he  was  occupying  the  position 
next  to  the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator 
to  this  Church — exactly  the  same  high 
and  exalted  position  that  President 
George  Q.  Cannon  occupies  in  the 
Church  today.  I  refer  to  Hyrum  Smith. 
The  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  came 
unto  him  without  any  notice  whatever, 
and  he  did  not  complain  about  it,  he  did 
not  feel  like  he  had  been  laid  on  the 
shelf.  The  word  of  the  Lord  is  as  fol- 
lows: 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  let 
my  servant  William  be  appointed,  or- 
dained, and  anointed,  as  a  counselor 
unto  my  servant  Joseph,  in  the  room  of 
my  servant  Hyrum,  that  my  servant 
Hyrum  may  take  the  office  of  Priest- 
hood and  Patriarch,  which  was  ap- 
pointed unto  him  by  his  father,  by 
blessing  and  also  by  right. 

"That  from  henceforth  he  shall  hold 
the  keys  of  the  patriarchal  blessings 
upon  the  heads  of  all  my  people, 
,  "That  whoever  he  blesses  shall  be 
blessed,  and  whoever  he  curses  shall  be 
cursed:  and  whatsoever  he  shall  bind 
on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven;  and 
whatsoever  he  shall  loose  on  earth  shall 
be  loosed  in  heaven; 

"And  from  this  time  forth  I  appoint 
unto  him  that  he  may  be  a  Prophet,  and 
a  Seer,  and  a  Revelator  unto  my 
Church,  as  well  as  my  servant  Joseph." 

The  last  paragraph  contains  a  special 
appointment  unto  Hyrum  Smith  and 
does  not  refer  to  Patriarchs  in  general, 
without  they  receive  a  similar  commis- 
sion from  the  Lord.  But  the  power  to 
seal  on  earth  and  it  shall  be  sealed  in 
heaven  belongs  to  every  Patriarch 
in  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Did  Hyrum  Smith  stand  up  and  tell  his 
brother  Joseph  that  he  was  occupying 
the  position  of  one  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  and  stood  as  the 
second  man  in  the  kingdom,  and  he  did 
not  wish  to  be  released  from  that  posi- 
tion to  become  the  Patriarch  of  the 
Church?  No,  he  did  not.  Why?  Be- 
cause he  realized  it  was  the  mind  and 
will  of  God  ,and  instead  of  being  a  step 
backward  in  the  Church,  it  was  a  step 
forward;  in  other  words,  it  was  a  step 
into  another  department  which  was 
equally  honorable.    More  than  that,  it 


was  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  and  this 
should  always  be  considered  above  all 
other  things.  Hyrum  Smith  went  forth 
and  officiated  in  that  calling,  and  here 
is  his  descendant  today,  the  Patriarch 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Another  thing.    When  I  received  my 
patriarchal  blessing  there  was  a  clause 
in  it  which  has  always  been  a  warning 
unto  me.    My  blessing  concluded  like 
this:    "I  seal  these  blessings  upon  your 
head  according  to  your  faithfulness  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God."  I 
advise  all  you  Patriarchs  when  you 
bless  the  children  of  men  to  put  in  a 
clause  of  this  kind,  because,  as  I  have 
said,     the  blessings    and  powers  of 
heaven  are  inseparably  connected  with 
the  Priesthood,  and  they  can  only  be 
controlled  and  handled  upon  the  princi- 
ple of  righteousness.    The  young  man 
said  to  Jesus,  "What  shall  I  do  to  be 
saved?"    Jesus  told  him  to  sell  all  his 
goods,  give  them  to  the  poor,  and  follow 
him.    That  was  the  condition.  When 
Jesus  promised  a  blessing  to  the  in- 
dividual or  the  people  he  always  added 
something  that  they  should  do  to  secure 
the  blessing.    Said  he,  "Blessed  are  the 
meek:  for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 
Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.    'Blessed  are 
they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after 
righteousness:  for  they  shall  be  filled. 
Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted 
for  righteousness  sake:  for  theirs  is  the 
kingdom  of  heaven."    If  you  will  no- 
tice, Jesus  always  put  in  a  condition 
upon  which  the  blessing  could  be  re- 
ceived by  the  children  of  men.    I  sug- 
gest  to   +he  Patriarchs   that   in  your 
blessings  you  also  add  a  condition.  As 
we  were  told  yesterday  by  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  at  the  opening  of  the 
conference,  God  will  judge  us  by  what 
we  do  and  not  merely  by  what  we  say 
I  have  known  people  to  receive  Patri- 
archal blessings  which  have  not  been 
fulfilled,  and  their  sons  and  daughters 
have  stood  up  in  reproach  and  made  it 
known  that  their  father's  or  their  moth- 
er's blessing  had  not  been  fulfilled.  But 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  there  would  be 
very  few  Patriarchal  blessings  unful- 
filled, if  those  who  received  them  would 
remember  that  no  blessing    can  be 
vouchsafed  unto  the  children  of  men, 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


33 


excepting  through  their  faithfulness  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 
God  bless  you  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Jesus,  I 
My  Cross  Have  Taken." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Rulon  S.  Wells. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Angus 

M.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Saints  cannot  plead  Ignorance  as  an  excuse — A 
constant  effort  necessary— The  Lord  does  not 
expect  impossibilities  of  His  children— What 
the  Lord  requires  of  His  people  i*  the  Word  of 
Wisdom— Encouraging  home  industries. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having  the 
opportunity  of  again  assembling  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  con- 
ference. I  have  listened  with  much  in- 
terest and  pleasure  to  the  remarks  that 
have  been  made  thus  far,  and  while  I 
stand  before  you  I  most  earnestly  de- 
sire that  the  same  good  spirit  that  has 
inspired  the  remarks  of  the  previous 
speakers  may  be  with  me.  There  is  no 
other  desire  in  my  heart  than  that  I 
may  be  able  to  say  something  that  shall 
be  beneficial  to  those  who  listen  as  well 
as  to  myself,  and  which  may  be  calcu- 
lated to  strengthen  our  determination 
to  serve  the  Lord.  I  believe  that  every 
true  Latter-day  Saint  desires  to  know 
the  mind  and  will  of  God  and  to  have 
the  strength  of  character  to  perform, 
in  the  daily  walk  of  life,  those  duties 
that  will  tend  to  advance  the  cause  of 
God  upon  the  earth.  If  we  have  not 
this  desire  in  our  hearts,  then  we  are 
not  true  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  before  us  in  the  written  word,  and 
from  time  to  time  we  have  our  minds 
refreshed  by  the  outpouring  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  upon  those  who  are  called 
upon  to  preach  to  us.  There  is  there- 
fore no  excuse  for  the  Latter-day  Saint 
who  does  not  keep  the  commandments 
of  God.  We  cannot  say  that  we  do  not 
know  what  our  duties  are,  because  they 
are  fo  often  and  so  forcibly  brought  to 


our  minds  by  those  who  speak  to  us.  I 
realize  that  it  requires  a  constant  ef- 
fort on  the  part  of  each  and  every  one 
of  us  to  make  a  success  of  our  lives. 
It  requires  no  effort  at  all  to  roll  down 
the  hill,  but  it  does  require  an  effort 
to  climb  to  the  summit.  It  needs  no  ef- 
fort to  walk  in  the  broad  way  that 
leads  to  destruction;  but  it  needs  an 
effort  to  keep  in  the  straight  and  nar- 
row path  that  leads  to  life  eternal,  and 
we  are  told  that  but  few  find  this  path. 
The  all-important  thing  for  you  and  me 
is  to  discover  whether  we  are  walking 
in  the  straight  and  narrowr  path  that 
leads  to  life  eternal,  and  if  we  are  not, 
wherein  have  we  allowed  the  adversary 
to  blind  our  minds  and  to  cause  us  to 
depart  from  that  path  wrhich  will  lead 
us  back  into  the  presence  of  God?  Each 
one  should  search  his  own  heart  to  find 
out  wherein  he  has  failed,  and  then  he 
should  diligently  seek  unto  our 
heavenly  Father  for  the  assistance 
of  His  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  may  come 
back  into  the  straight  path.  By  the 
assistance  of  our  Heavenly  Father  there 
is  no  obligation  and  no  law  in  the 
Church  that  we  cannot  fulfill.  The 
Lord  will  give  us  the  strength  and  the 
ability  to  accomplish  every  duty  and 
labor  that  rests  upon  us  in  an  accepta- 
ble manner  in  His  sight.  The  only 
question  is,  have  we  the  disposition? 
I  heard  yesterday  of  a  Bishop  who  said 
that  he  could  not  give  up  drinking  cof- 
fee. I  do  not  believe  that  that  man 
tells  the  truth.  I  think  he  lacks  the 
disposition  to  try  and  give  up  the  habit. 
I  believe  emphatically  in  the  statement 
of  Nephi.  If  there  is  one  character 
more  than  another  whose  history  is  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon  who  has 
inspired  me  with  respect  and  with  a 
desire  to  follow  in  his  footsteps,  that 
character  is  Nephi.  When  he  came  to 
his  father's  tent,  after  conversing  with 
the  Lord,  his  elder  brethren  were  com- 
plaining against  their  father  because 
he  had  asked  them  to  go  back  to  Jeru- 
salem for  the  plates  of  brass.  They 
said  that  he  required  a  hard  thing  of 
them.  But  when  Nephi  came,  his  father 
blessed  him  because  he  did  not  mur- 
mur.    The  record  says: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi, 
said  unto  my  father,  I  will  go  and  do 
the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


manded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giv- 
eth  no  commandments  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a 
way  for  them  that  they  may  accom- 
plish the  thing-  which  he  commanded 
them." 

This  is  the  spirit  that  should  animate 
every  Latter-day  Saint. 

They  went  up  after  the  plates  and 
were  driven  out.  The  elder  brethren 
desired  to  go  back  to  their  father;  but 
Nephi  said  unto  them,  "As  the  Lord 
liveth,  and  as  we  live,  we  will  not  go 
down  unto  our  father  in  the  wilderness 
until  we  have  accomplished  the  thing 
which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  us." 
They  then  gathered  up  their  gold  and 
their  silver  and  their  precious  things 
and  went  up  once  more  to  try  to  get 
the  plates.  Laban  stole  their  wealth 
and  tried  to  destroy  them.  Nephi's 
brethren  commenced  to  murmur  again, 
and  they  took  a  rod  and  beat  him  with 
it.  As  they  did  so  an  angel  of  the  Lord 
stood  before  them,  and  he  commanded 
them  to  go  up  again,  promising  that 
God  should  deliver  Laban  into  their 
hands.  I  call  the  attention  of  the  young 
men  and  young  ladies  to  this,  for  I 
have  heard  many  of  them  say,  "Oh,  if  I 
could  only  see  an  angel,  I  would  be- 
lieve and  forever  after  be  faithful." 
The  seeing  of  an  angel  amounts  to  noth- 
ing, unless  you  are  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  No  sooner  had 
the  heavenly  messenger  departed  than 
these  elder  brethren,  who  were  lacking 
in  faith  and  did  not  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  commenced  to  mur- 
mur, and  instead  of  having  faith  in 
the  promises  of  the  angel,  they  said 
unto  Nephi,  "How  is  it  possible  that 
the  Lord  will  deliver  Laban  into  our 
hands?  Behold,  he  is  a  mighty  man, 
and  he  can  command  fifty,  vea,  even  he 
can  slay  fifty;  then,  why  not  us?"  Did 
this  discourage  Nephi?  Did  he  lack 
faith?  No;  he  believed  in  the  promises 
of  the  angel  of  God,  and  he  said  unto 
them,  "Let  us  go  up  again  unto  Je- 
rusalem, and  let  us  be  faithful  in  keep- 
ing the  oommandments  of  the  Lord;  for 
behold  He  is  mightier  than  all  the 
earth,  then  why  not  mightier  than  La- 
ban and  his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his 
tens  of  thousands?"  They  went  up  and 
were  successful. 

God  has  commanded  the  Latter-day 


Saints  to  keep  His  commandments. 
Ever  since  I  can  remember  we  have  had 
preached  unto  us  what  our  duties  and 
obligations  are.  Well  do  I  remember, 
when  a  boy,  hearing  President  Brigham 
Young.in  the  conferences  that  were  held 
in  the  old  bowery,  teach  the  Latter-day 
Saints  their  duties  and  obligations.  I 
say  as  Nephi  of  old  said,  that  God  has 
required  nothing  at  our  hands  save  He 
will  prepare  a  way  whereby  we  can  ac- 
complish it.  What  does  God  require 
at  our  hands?  He  requires  that  we 
shall  overcome  our  selfishness;  that  we 
shall  be  honest  in  our  dealings  with 
Him,  and  that  we  shall  pay  an  honest 
tithing.  I  want  to  make  a  little  ex- 
planation here  with  regard  to  my  re- 
marks that  were  quoted  by  Brother 
Smoot.  Any  young  man  who  would  go 
around  and  make  the  statement  that  I 
said  ninety  cents  would  pay  more  debts 
than  one  dollar,  simply  states  what  is 
not  true.  It  is  like  hearing  a  man  say, 
"I  killed  John  Jones  in  self-defense," 
and  then  quoting  him  as  saying,  "I 
killed  John  Jones,"  and  leaving  the 
"self-defense"  off.  I  say  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  that  God  will  bless  the 
man  who  is  honest  with  Him,  and  that 
the  nine-tenths  will  go  further  and  will 
bring  down  upon  his  head  the  blessing 
of  God  more  than  though  he  robbed 
God  and  kept  the  ten-tenths.  That  is 
what  I  said,  and  I  repeat  it. 

I  have  heard  taught  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  all  my  life  that  they  should  obey 
the  Word  of  Wisdom;  and  I  say  that  a 
Bishop,  a  father  of  a  ward,  who  so  far 
forgets  his  duty  and  the  example  which 
he  should  set  as  to  break  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  is  unworthy  to  occupy  that 
position;  and  if  he  does  not  repent,  it 
is  only  a  question  of  a  short  time  before 
his  resignation  will  be  tendered  to  him, 
and  he  will  have  to  accept  it.  The  day 
is  gone  by  when  the  Lord  will  trifle 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  He  has 
said  that  His  Spirit  shall  not  always 
strive  with  man.  In  the  very  first  sec- 
tion of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants the  Lord  says: 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

"And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


35 


shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which  he 
has  received,  for  my  Spirit  shall  not 
always  strive  with  man,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts." 

We  have  been  letting-  out  High  Coun- 
cilors and  Bishops  that  were  failing  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and 
there  will  be  more  of  them  let  out  un- 
less they  repent.  It  is  a  disgrace  for 
a  man  blessed  with  the  Priesthood  of 
God  and  with  a  testimony  that  God 
lives  burning  in  his  heart,  to  be  so  weak 
that  a  little  insignificant  cup  of  coffee 
is  his  master.  How  he  must  swell  up 
in  vanity  when  he  thinks  what  a  won- 
derful man  he  is  that  a  cup  of  coffee  is 
his  master!  The  example  is  pernicious. 

Now  we  desire  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  shall  be  free  from  the  bondage 
of  debt.  The  Prophet  of  God  has 
sounded  the  key-note  to  the  people, 
"Pay  your  obligations,  and  do  not  go  in 
debt."  We  pray  to  God  day  after  day 
to  bless  and  prosper  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  then  we  squander  our  sub- 
stance in  breaking  a  commandment  of 
God.  There  is  today  more  money  spent 
in  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom  than 
there  is  paid  in  cash  tithing  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Very  few  of  the  people 
stop  to  reflect  upon  what  good  that 
money  would  do  in  helping  their  broth- 
ers and  sisters  to  pay  their  obligations. 
The  Apostle  James  says  that  faith 
without  works  is  dead. 

"What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren, 
though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?    Can  faith  save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and 
destitute  of  daily  food, 

"And  one  of  you  say  unto  them,  depart 
in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled;  not- 
withstanding ye  give  them  not  those 
things  which  are  needful  to  the  body; 
what  doth  it  profit? 

"Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works, 
is  dead,  being  alone." 

The  prayers  do  not  amount  to  much 
of  those  Latter-day  Saints  who  pray 
for  the  Lord  to  bless  and  prosper  the 
Saints  that  they  may  get  out  from  the 
bondage  of  debt,  and  who  at  the  same 
time  go  on  squandering  their  substance 
in  breaking  one  of  the  commandments 
of  God.  What  does  money  do?  Why 
a  dollar  of  money  has  the  same  effect  as 
a  drop  of  blood  in  the  human  body.  It 
is  a  circulating  medium.    It  goes  over 


and  over  and  over  again.  We  find  that 
the  heart  of  man  beats,  on  an  average, 
about  seventy-six  times  every  minute, 
and  that  it  handles  four  ounces  of  blood 
every  time  it  beats.  In  other  words,  it 
handles  nineteen  pounds  a  minute.  Mul- 
tiply that  by  sixty,  and  you  will  find 
how  much  it  handles  in  an  hour.  Mul- 
tiply that  by  twenty-four,  and  you 
will  find  how  much  it  handles  in  a 
day.  Over  twelve  tons!  I  have  figured 
this  out  since  I  have  been  sitting  here 
on  the  stand.  Over  twelve  tons  in 
twenty-four  hours,  and  yet  there  is  only 
about  eighteen  pounds  of  blood  in  the 
human  body;  but  it  goes  over  and  over 
again.  It  is  exactly  the  same  with  a 
dollar.  It  is  calculated  that  every  dol- 
lar does  at  least  twenty-five  dollar's, 
worth  of  work  in  a  year,  and  I  have- 
known  it  to  do  more  than  that  in  a  sin- 
gle week.  Now  we  spend  nearly  a  mil- 
lion dollars  a  year  in  breaking  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  and  every  dollar  of  that 
money  goes  out  of  this  country.  God 
said  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  was 
given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  for  their 
temporal  salvation,  and  I  say  that  if  we 
had  obeyed  it  we  would  be  the  richest 
people  in  this  inter-mountain  country, 
because  the  millions  upon  millions  that 
we  have  spent  since  we  came  here  in; 
breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom  would? 
have  stayed  right  here  in  this  country, 
instead  of  being  sent  away  as  it  has 
been,  and  we  would  have  had  more 
wealth  than  any  of  the  intermountain 
States  if  we  had  obeyed  this  simple 
commandment. 

I  know  that  the  policy  of  Pres- 
ident Brigham  Young  in  advocating 
to  the  people  that  they  support  home 
manufacture  and  keep  their  money  at 
home  to  build  up  the  country,  is  the  true 
policy  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  fol- 
low. I  wear  home-made  clothes.  I 
have  done  it  ever  since  I  was  a  little 
boy.  Why?  Because  I  believe  it  is- 
better  for  this  community  that  I  pay- 
twenty  dollars  for  a  suit  of  clothes  than 
that  the  wool  be  sent  East  and  bring 
only  one  dollar  back. 

I  believe  it  is  better  to  have  the  nine- 
teen dollars  circulating  around  here.  I 
heard  Bishop  Farrell  some  years  aero 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  tell  a  very 
good  story  on  home  manufacture.  He 
said  he  believed  in  home  manufacture 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


because  it  benefited  him  as  well  as  other 
people.  He  said  that  when  he  was 
coming  down  to  conference  he  met  at 
the  depot  a  brother  to  whom  he  owed 
five  dollars  for  making  some  shoes  for 
his  children.  He  gave  this  brother  the 
live  dollars,  and  he  turned  around  and 
handed  the  money  to  another  brother 
whom  he  owed,  and  he  handed  it  to  an- 
other, and  he  handed  it  to  another,  and 
the  fourth  brother  came  up  and  handed 
it  back  to  Brother  Farrell,  saying  "I 
owe  you  six  dollars,  here  is  five  of  it," 
and  Brother  Farrell  put  the  money  back 
into  his  pocket.  That  money  paid  five 
hundred  per  cent  in  debt  there  in  just 
about  the  same  length  of  time  that  it 
takes  me  to  tell  the  story.  But  if  the 
Bishop  had  bought  the  imported  goods 
it  would  not  have  paid  the  five  hundred 
per  cent,  because  it  would  have  gone 
out  of  the  country.  I  went  to  a  negro 
minstrel  show  once,  and  there  were 
about  ten  or  fifteen  on  the  stage.  One 
of  them  rushed  in  with  his  hat  off  and 
said,  "which  of  these  here  niggers  am 
lost  two  dollars?"  holding  up  a  two 
dollar  bill.  There  hadn't  any  of  them 
lost  two  dollars.  "Well,"  he  said,  "if 
none  of  you  have  lost  it,  I  found  these 
two  dollars  right  by  the  door  here  and 
it  is  my  money."  They  said  all  right, 
and  he  put  it  in  his  pocket.  No  sooner 
had  he  got  it  in  his  pocket  than  up 
jumped  a  nigger  and  said:  "Look  here, 
George  Washington  Jones,  you  owe  me 
two  dollars;  pay  your  honest  debts!" 
He  handed  the  two  dollars  to  him.  An- 
other nigger  jumps  up  and  says:  "Look 
here,  Julius  Cseser  Brown,  you  owes 
me  two  dollars;  pay  your  debt."  He 
got  it,  and  in  this  way  it  went  clear 
round.  When  the  last  man  got  it,  up 
jumps  George  Washington  Jones,  and 
says:  "Here,  give  me  back  the  two 
dollars;  you  owes  me  two  dollar^  '  No 
sooner  had  he  got  it  in  his  pocket  than 
&  fellow  rushes  in  and  said  "which  of 
■you  niggers  has  found  two  dollars?" 
George  Washington  Jones  took  it  out 
of  his  pocket  and  said:  "Here,  take 
your  money  and  go  home;  we've  all 
paid  our  debts." 

I  desire  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  all  pay  their  debts.  One  reason 
why  I  desire  this  is,  I  am  in  debt  my- 
self and  I  want  to  pay  my  debts.  I 
want  to  live  to  see  the  day  when  I  shall 
owe  no  man  anything.   I  want  the  Lat- 


ter-day Saints  to  not  only  pray  for  me 
but  to  keep  a  little  more  money  in  the 
country  so  that  I  will  stand  a  better 
chance  to  get  some  of  it.  If  they  will  . 
keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  do 
less  praying,  I  will  be  obliged  to  them. 
I  believe  in  the  saying  of  the  Savior: 

-He  that  hath  my  commandments 
and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me!  and  he  that  loveth  Me  shall  be 
loved  of  My  Father,  and  I  will  love 
him,  and  will  manifest  myself  to  him." 

If  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God 
He  will  love  us,  and  the  Savior  will 
manifest  Himself  unto  us.  If  we  fail 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God, 
there  is  no  promise  made  to  us.  The 
Savior  said:  -Not  every  one  that  say- 
eth  unto  me  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."  It  is  the  keeping  of  the  com- 
mandments of  God  that  causes  men  to 
grow  and  to  become  strong  and  power- 
ful in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 
God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

Sister  Judith  Anderson  sang,  "Flee  as 
a  Bird  to  Ton  Mountain." 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

A  fundamental  principal  of  the  Gospel— The  "great 
and  marvelous  work" — How  to  receive  a  testi- 
mony— Union  among  the  Twelve — The  Law  of 
Tithing. 

I  am  exceedingly  thankful  for  the 
privilege  of  attending  this  conference, 
and  I  think  we  can  congratulate  each 
other  for  the  great  privilege  that  is 
vouchsafed  unto  us  in  the  redemption 
that  ha.s  been  made  for  us  by  our  Re- 
deemer. Jesus  Christ  said,  "No  man 
cometh  unto  me,  except  the  Father 
draw  him."  The  fundamental  principle 
of  the  doctrine  of  Christ  was  that  those 
who  would  do  the  will  of  the  Father 
should  know  of  the  doctrine.  Apostle 
James  said:  "If  any  of  you  lack  wis- 
dom, let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to 
all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not; 
and  it  shall  be  £iven  him."  We  have 
tested  these  princiDles  and  I  think  we 
are  highly  favored  in  having  the  privi- 
lege of  living  upon  the  earth  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times,  when 
the  Gospel  is  restored.  I  have  proved 
in  my  experience  that  if  we  will  ask, 
the  Father  will  answer.  Before  the 
Church  was  established  upon  the  earth. 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


37 


when  it  was  known  that  there  was  a 
Seer  in  the  land,  men  went  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  asked  him  what  the 
Lord  desired  concerning  them,  and  it 
was  told  them  that  a  great  and  a  mar- 
velous work  was  about  to  come  forth, 
and  that  all  who  desired  to  take  part 
in  this  work  had  the  opportunity.  The 
promise  was  given  that  if  we  would  ask 
we  should  receive;  if  we  would  knock, 
it  should  be  opened  unto  us;  if  we 
sought,  we  should  find.  At  that  time 
there  was  but  one  man  upon  the  earth 
who  knew  that  God  lived,  and  the  rev- 
elations that  came  unto  him  were  very 
simple,  easy  to  be  understood.  The 
Lord  told  those  who  desired  to  know 
His  mind  and  will  concerning  them  that 
it  would  be  impossible  for  anybody  to 
be  engaged  in  this  marvelous  work 
save  he  was  full  of  love  and  had  faith, 
hope  and  charity,  "being  temperate  in 
all  things  whatsoever  shall  be  in- 
trusted to  his  care."  When  the  Priest- 
hood was  restored  to  the  earth,  those 
upon  whom  it  was  conferred  were  in- 
structed not  to  exercise  unrighteous 
dominion,  but,  with  all  long-suffering, 
patience,  and  love  unfeigned,  preach 
the  restored  Gospel,  entreat  and  warn 
the  people. 

The  Gospel  came  to  me  in  a  very  sim- 
ple manner  through  a  small  tract — "The 
Only  Way  to  be  Saved."  That,  with 
the  "Voice  of  Warning,"  gave  me  the 
first  intelligence  I  had  concerning  this 
marvelous  work.  By  the  grace  of  God 
He  led  me  into  His  Church,  and  gave 
me  a  testimony  concerning  this  work. 
In  my  experience  from  that  day  to  the 
present  I  have  been  enabled,  in  com- 
mon with  those  who  have  taken  the 
Lord  at  His  word  and  have  sought  and 
found,  to  know  that  the  work  which  we 
are  engaged  in  is  of  God  and  that  we 
are  living  in  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times,  and  that  this  is  the 
"marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  pre- 
dicted by  the  Prophet  Isaiah.  In  the 
29th  chapter  of  Isaiah  we  read: 

"Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Foras- 
much as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips 
do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their 
hearts  far  from  me,  and  their  fear 
toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of 
men: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 


do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  peo- 
ple, even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der'; for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men 
shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of 
their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

It  had  a  very  small  beginning.  Two 
men— Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery — were  ordained  to  the  Aaronie 
Priesthood  by  John  the  Baptist.  They 
were  ordained  to  the  Apostleship  by 
Peter,  James  and  John.  From  that 
very  small  beginning,  look  at  the  won- 
derful work  that  our  Father  has  doner 
This  vast  body  of  people  here,  in  sol- 
emn assembly,  members  of  the  Church' 
of  Jesus  Christ,  is  evidence  of  what 
the  Lord  has  done.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the 
earth,  in  fulfillment  of  the  prediction 
that  the  Lord  would  gather  His  elect 
from  the  north,  and  from  the  south, 
from  the  east,  and  from  the  west,  and? 
deliver  them  from  the  hands  of  the- 
enemy.  What  enemy?  The  prince 
of  darkness.  And  God  has  given  unto 
us  a  living  testimony.  We  are  not  de- 
pendent upon  others.  We  have  been 
taught  of  God,  and  He  has  given  us 
the  knowledge  that  we  have  concerning; 
Him.  For  He  is  a  God  of  revelation, 
and  we  know  it.  He  promised  that  the 
signs  should  follow  the  believer,  and 
they  do.  We  know  that  it  is  by  the 
grace  of  God  that  we  have  been  put 
in  possession  of  this  knowledge;  and  in 
our  experience  and  schooling,  referred 
to  by  our  beloved  President  in  the 
opening  of  the  Conference,  we  know 
that  the  Lord  has  sustained  and  is 
capable  of  sustaining  us  through  all 
the  vicissitudes  of  life  and  through  all 
the  persecution  and  ridicule  we  may 
have  to  meet.  We  know  that  He  lives, 
and  that  He  is  a  rewarder  of  those 
that  diligently  seek  Him.  I  say  there- 
fore that  we  can  afford  to  be  charit- 
able. We  never  would  have  known 
what  to  do  if  we  had  not  humbled 
ourselves  before  the  Lord  and  sought 
Him  for  knowledge.  We  had  to  be 
converted  to  believe  that  we  would  re- 
ceive, if  we  asked  in  the  proper  man- 
ner. We  were  told  to  ask  the  living 
and  true  God,  in  the  name  of  Je- 
sus Christ,  with  humility  in  our  hearts, 
and  we  would  be  answered.  I  know 
that  that  is  true,  for  I  asked  and  re- 
ceived.     I  know  that  the  Church  of 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Christ   is   a   church  of  revelation,  and 
that    the    spirit    of    prophecy  is  in 
the    Church.     Brethren   are    set  apart 
to  go  upon  missions  and  prophecies  are 
made     concerning    them     and  their 
missions,  and  when  they  return  they  in- 
variably tell .  us  that  every  word  pre- 
dicted was  literally  fulfilled.    Who  in- 
spired those  blessings?    Our  Father  in 
heaven,  by  the  power  of  His  Spirit,  for 
He  is  doing  His  own  work.    Man  is  a 
manifest  failure  without  the  Spirit  of 
■God.    Take  Paul  for  example,  the  great 
Apostle  to  the  Gentiles.    Under  the  do- 
minion of  the  Prince  of  Darkness  he 
was  a  rabid  persecutor  of  the  Saints. 
But  when  he  was  under  the  influence 
of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  Light  and  Truth, 
he  was  a  very  different  man.  While 
operating  by  his  own  wisdom,  he  was 
striving  to  bring  men  and  women  into 
trouble  because  they  dared  to  worship 
the  living  and  true  God  and  testify  of  a 
risen  Redeemer;  but  when  he  was  under 
the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  he 
was  more  valiant  for  the  truth.  Those 
who  are  opposed  to  us  and  misrepresent 
us,    what    influence    are    they  under? 
What  good  does  it  do  them?  They  waste 
a  great  deal  of  time  and  talent  in  vilify- 
ing the  people  of  God  and  trying  to 
make  them  a  "stink  in  the  nostrils"  of 
all  people.    Do  we  vilify  those  who  do 
not  believe  as  we  do?    No,  we  have 
charity  concerning  them.    We  lay  be- 
fore them  the  principles  of  the  everlast- 
ing Gospel  and  plead  with  them  to  take 
advantage  of  it.    We  are  the  friends  of 
the  people,   and  we  have  traveled  a 
great   deal   in   their  behalf.     We  are 
minute  men.    We  go  where  we  are  sent. 
We  are  subject  to  our  file  leader.  We 
sustain  President  Lorenzo     Snow  as 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator.   We  know 
.him,  having  been  associated  with  him 
for  a  long  time.    He  presided  over  the 
■quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  he  was  anxi- 
ous to  have  us  united  as  one  man.  He 
lias  lived  to  see  that  union.  He  besought 
the  Lord  that  this  might  be  brought 
about,    and    the    testimony   which  he 
bore  yesterday  shows  that  it  has  been 
fulfilled.    He  has  only  to  express  him- 
self that  he  wishes  us  to  do  anything, 
and  that  is  sufficient,  because  we  love 
cur  Father  in  heaven,  and  we  are  de- 
voted to  His  work.   Seven  times  I  have 
crossed  the  Atlantic.  I  never  went  except 


when  I  was  sent.  I  never  ask  any  ques- 
tions, only  that  I  may  be  where  the 
Lord  wants  me  to  be.  For  I  am  so 
thankful  to  Him  for  the  glorious  re- 
demption He  has  wrought  out  for  me, 
and  I  appreciate  so  much  the  knowledge 
that  He  has  given  unto  me.  To  my 
mind  He  is  the  first  consideration.  I 
reverence  my  glorious  Creator,  and  I 
worship  Him  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  as  he  hath  appointed. 

I  have  a  living  testimony  concerning 
this  work  and  I  persuade  men  to  be 
reconciled  to  God,  obey  the  Gospel,  be 
kind  to  themselves,  and  make  the  rec- 
ord of  a  well-spent  life.  I  show  them 
the  advantages  that  we  have  in  being 
honored  to  assist  in  this  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder.  Who  built  the 
Temples  in  St.  George,  Manti,  Salt  Lake 
and  Logan?  Look  at  our  meeting 
houses;  look  at  our  magnificent  homes, 
Who  has  brought  this  to  pass?  Our 
Father  in  His  glorious  providences. 
If  we  cannot  see  and  understand  this, 
it  is  time  that  we  had  our  eyes  opened. 
He  does  not  ask  anything  of  us  but 
what  is  consistent.  I  want  to  bear  my 
testimony  with  regard  to  the  law  of 
tithing.  I  know  that  it  is  a  correct  prin- 
ciple. The  Lord  has  done  to  me  what 
He  has  said:  "Prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  if  I  will  not 
open  to  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 
In  my  experience  I  am  a  living  witness 
that  that  is  true.  If  any  of  us  do  not 
have  this  knowledge,  it  surely  is  a  dis- 
grace to  us,  because  it  has  been  decreed 
in  the  heavens  from  the  beginning  that 
whoso  would  do  the  will  of  the  Father 
should  know  of  the  doctrine,  and  that 
redeems  us  from  doubt,  ignorance  and 
from  death. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  these  princi- 
ples. I  love  my  brethren.  I  love  my 
President,  and  whenever  he  utters  any- 
thing that  he  wishes  me  to  do,  by  the 
grace  of  God,  I  hope  to  be  able  to  do  it. 
The  only  way  that  the  Kinkdom  of  God 
will  ever  be  established  upon  the 
earth  is  by  giving-  our  hearts  to  God 
and  by  saying,  "Father,  thy  will,  not 
mine,  be  done."  If  we  will  listen  to  Him, 
keep  His  commandments,  and  walk 
humbly  and  faithfully  before  Him,  He 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


39 


will  lead  us  back  into  His  presence  in 
His  glorious  kingdom,  through  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Extensive  ground  covered  by  administration  of  the 
Eiders  — A  great  field  yet  to  b=i  reached — The 
Lord  will  break  down  the  barriers — Earnest 
aDd  devoted  labor  necessary — Immediate  re- 
sponsibilities of  the  Saints. 

At  the  introduction  of  this  work,  the 
Lord  laid  it  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  they  were  to  go  into  all  the  world 
and  preach  the  Gospel  unto  every  crea- 
ture. They  that  received  it  were  to  be 
blessed,  and  they  that  rejected  it  were 
to  be  condemned;  and  upon  those  who 
did  reject  it  His  judgments  were  to  be 
poured  out  in  His  own  time  and  in  His 
own  way.  "When  we  think  of  the  small 
start  that  was  made,  it  is  wonderful 
the  extent  that  has  been  covered  in  the 
ministrations  of  the  Elders  from  thajt 
time  to  the  present.  We  find  represent- 
ed in  this  congregation  people  of  many 
nationalities,  and  in  this  conference  are 
men  who  are  defenders  of  the  faith  and 
expounders  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  from  Mexico  and  Canada,  and 
from  the  various  mission  fields  upon  the 
American  continent,  where  they  have 
been  laboring  to  disseminate  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel.  They  are  here  to 
represent  bodies  of  people  who  have 
received  the  Gospel.  The  growth  of 
the  work  truly  is  a  marvel  to  all  who 
will  stop  and  think  of  it.  Nevertheless, 
only  a  limited  portion  of  that  work 
has  been  accomplished  as  yet.  There 
are  many  countries  in  the  world  un- 
touched, because  it  has  been  impossible 
for  us  to  make  our  way  in  them.  The 
character  of  the  governments  that  exist, 
the  extreme  prejudice  that  abounds  in 
the  hearts  of  people  of  various  coun- 
tries through  their  lack  of  information, 
has  led  to  their  rejecting  the  Gospel  in 
one  sense,  and  has  prevented  extending 
the  truths  thereof  as  our  Father  designs 
they  shall  be  extended  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  As  fast  as  openings  can 
be  made  looking  to  the  extension  of 
free  thought  and  free  action,  the  Elders 
are  carrying  the  olive  branch  of  peace, 
backed  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and 
fulfilling  the  obligation  resting  upon 
them.  Wherever  the  effort  has  been 
made  to  introduce  this  Gospel  and  the 
spirit  of  intolerance  has  manifested  it- 


self to  a  degree  that  has  prevented  the 
accomplishment  of  that  work,  our 
Father  in  heaven  will,  in  His  own  time, 
have  a  controversy  with  those  nations 
and  people  who  so  determine  to  hedge 
up  the  advance  of  the  work  which  He 
is  seeking  to  establish.  Their  rejec- 
tion of  it  forebodes  to  them  trouble  of  a 
serious  kind.  It  may  be  necessary  that 
upheavals  shall  occur  and  changes  be 
wrought  that  may  cause  bloodshed  and 
confusion.  The  doors  must  be  opened.  It 
is  the  decree  of  Providence  that  such 
shall  be  the  case.  His  children 
cannot  be  judged  by  his  word  until  a 
knowledge  of  it  has  been  sounded  in 
their  ears,  at  least  to  some  extent.  And 
if  governmental  matters  are  such  that 
free  speech  is  prohibited,  and  if  words 
of  peace  fail  to  accomplish  a  change  in 
these  conditions,  I  am  one  of  those  who 
believe  that  in  the  providences  of  God, 
those  governments  will  be  scourged  and 
humiliated  in  some  form  or  another 
that  sh  ill  lead  to  the  opening  of  the 
doors  whereby  this  Gospel  may  be 
sounded  in  the  ears  of  the  people  of 
those  nat  Ions. 

We  have  accomplished  but  a  limited 
Dart  cf  the  great  work  that  has  been 
assigned  unto  us.  It  is  true,  some  of 
the  more  liberal  governments  of  the 
world  have  treated  us  with  reasonable 
kindness  and  have  guarded  our  rights 
as  well  as  could  be  expected,  consider- 
ing the  prejudices  that  exist  in  the 
minds  of  people  against  the  introduc- 
tion of  any  new  idea,  whether  in  manu- 
facture, in  invention,  in  government  or 
in  religion.  Especially  are  men  slow  to 
receive  religious  views  that  may  come 
in  contact  with  their  inborn  prejudices. 
Rut  the  work  of  Almighty  God  deliv- 
ered to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
has  a  destiny,  the  highest  that  could  be 
imagined,  so  far  as  its  extension  and 
growth  are  concerned.  There  is  no 
reason  for  us  to  doubt  the  fulfillment  of 
the  Almighty's  purpose  in  regard  to 
this,  when  we  remember  what  has  been 
accomplisned  But  a  few  brief  years 
ago,  in  a  village  to  the  eastward  of  us, 
^  few  uersons  made  a  covenant  with 
Almighty  God  that  they  would  obey  His 
will  and  meet  the  requirements  of  His 
Gospel.  They  plighttd  their  faith  in 
the  waters  of  baptism,  that  His  stand- 


40 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE 


ard,  v.nf  ai  led  to  the  breeze,  should  nev- 
er be  lowered  in  this  world  until  the 
uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  should 
hear  the  warning  voice  of  a  servant  of 
God.  We  may  imagine  sometimes  that 
we  have  accomplished  the  mission  that 
was  assigned  unto  us;  but  we  have  only 
touched  the  edges  of  the  work.  This 
work  is  to  become  the  joy  of  the  whole 
earth.  Providence  has  decreed  it.  No 
power  can  stay  its  progress.  It  may 
meet  with  rebuffs;  enemies  may  seek 
to  hedge  its  way;  barriers  may  be 
thrown  across  its  path;  but  they  will 
be  blown  out  of  the  way  as  the  wind 
gathers  the  straws  and  carries  them 
from  place  to  place,  or  as  the  breezes 
gather  the  ocean  waves  and  whip  to 
pieces  that  which  our  Father  wishes  to 
destroy. 

In  order  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
may  fulfill  the  great  destiny  that  God 
has  designed  for  them,  it  will  require 
an  earnest  and  a  most  devoted  labor  in 
every  given  direction.  We  must  exhibit 
our  fidelity  to  him  by  the  use  of  the  tal- 
ents which  he  has  given  us,  looking  to 
the  betterment  of  everything  that  may 
come  under  our  influence,  and  in  ex- 
tending the  principles  of  right,  justice 
and  mercy  as  far  as  we  may  have  the 
power  so  to  do.  No  greater  mercy  can 
be  extended  to  the  human  race  than  to 
carry  to  them  the  eternal  truths  which 
our  Father  has  revealed,  which  shall 
point  to  them  the  way  of  life  and 
open  up  to  them  an  understanding  of 
the  ministry  they  should  perform  to 
make  themselves  acceptable  to  our  Fa- 
ther in  heaven.  We  may  have  thought 
that  our  work  was  nearly  completed,  in- 
asmuch as  barriers  seemed  to  be  in  our 
way  in  some  nations,  and  the  nations 
that  had  received  us  and  given  us  so 
liberally  of  their  people  now  seem  to 
be  but  fields  for  the  gleaning.  We  have 
perhaps  forgotten  that  all  this  earth  is 
covered  with  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
our  God.  and  that  while  the  nature  of 
the  governments  under  which  they  live 
or  the  prejudices  in  which  they  have 
been  indoctrinated  shut  their  hearts  in 
some  measure  to  the  advance  of  the' 
Gospel  in  their  midst,  our  Father's  pur- 
pose in  regard  to  them  is  that  they  shall 
have  the  privilege  of  hearing  that  mes- 
sage.  And  he  will  so  shape  this  earth, 


by  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond  its 
bounds,  by  wars  and  rumors  of  wars, 
and  by  the  contention  and  strife  that 
will  appear  in  various  parts  of  the 
earth,  that  door  after  door  will  be 
opened,  until  the  seed  shall  be  sown  and 
the  light  of  eternal  truth  be  allowed 
to  shine  in  the  dark  places  and  the 
manifest  wisdom  of  the  glory  of  God 
be  seen  which  shall  change  the  hearts 
of  the  people  and  lead  them  to  a  love 
of  the  principles  of  eternal  truth. 

We  are  a  people  who  believe  in  the 
continued  extension  of  our  doctrines 
among  the  people  of  the  world.  We  left 
the  village  to  the  eastward;  we  planted 
our  standard  in  Ohio,  in  Missouri  and 
in  Illinois;  we  have  planted  it  beneath 
the  shades  of  these  grand  old  moun- 
tains, our  "friends"  pushing  us  forward 
to  the  accomplishment  of  our  destiny, 
not  recognizing  the  fact,  and  we  not 
sensing  it  ourselves  altogether,  that  it 
was  the  divine  purpose  to  utilize  us 
for  the  regeneration  and  uplifting  of 
the  human  race;  that  from  the  moun- 
tain sides  we  should  proceed  in  every 
direction,  looking  to  the  well-being  and 
interest  of  our  Father's  children,  her- 
alding His  truths  among  the  people, 
and  thereby  freeing  ourselves  from  that 
responsibility  which  has  been  placed 
upon  us. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  the  field 
is  before  us,  and  that  field  is  the  earth. 
God's  children  are  our  brothers  and 
our  sisters,  their  rights  should  be  as 
sacred  to  us  as  our  own  rights.  It  is 
laid  upon  us  to  carry  to  them  the 
knowledge  that  God  is  their  Father  and 
our  Father;  that  Jesus  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world;  that  He  has  restored  the 
keys,  opened  the  door,  pointed  out  the 
road,  and  selected  us  who  have  bowed 
to  His  shrine  and  recognized  His  hol^ 
will,  to  become  the  fore-front  of  man- 
kind in  disseminating  every  principle 
that  shall  tend  to  the  ennobling  and  up- 
lifting of  man.  To  this  end  you  have 
pledged  your  faith,  your  lives,  your 
fortunes,  your  sacred  honor;  and  to  this 
end  the  men  who  have  been  selected  to 
guide  and  counsel  have  directed  their 
energies  in  the  past  and  will  direct 
them  in  the  future,  never  slackening 
until  the  voice  of  truth  shall  be  heard 
in  every  land  and  in  every  climel 

We  have  not,  in  many  instances,  as 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  F.  JOHNSON. 


41 


fully  prepared  ourselves  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  this  duty  as  we  should 
have  done.  We  have  not  secured  unto 
ourselves  that  species  of  education  and 
prepared  ourselves  in  an  understanding 
of  the  laws  and  customs  of  nations  suf- 
ficiently to  fully  qualify  us  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  work  of  sowing 
the  seeds  wherever  opportunity  might 
offer.  But  the  oportunities  will  be 
given.  Doors  will  be  opened,  light  and 
truth  will  be  shed  forth,  the  stand- 
ard that  our  Father  has  thrown  to  the 
breeze  will  float  in  these  lands  and 
climes,  and  the  truth  will  be  made 
known,  at  least  to  such  an  extent  as  to 
free  us  from  responsibility  of  their 
blood,  which  would  rest  upon  us  if  the 
effort  were  not  made  to  give  them  the 
knowledge  that  our  Father  has  given 
the  Holy  Phiesthood  unto  His  children 
and  has  turned  the  keys  by  which  the 
dead  millions  shall  be  redeemed.  He 
purposes  the  opening  of  the  door  of 
every  land,  that  every  human  being 
ma-"  have  the  privilege  of  saying  yes 
or  no  to  His  word. 

While  we  speak  thus  upon  these  ques- 
tions affecting  the  interests  of  our 
fellow-men,  we  must  not  forget  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  surround  us.  Our 
eyes  should  be  upon  the  standard, 
watching  its  movements,  and  looking  to 
the  accomplishment  of  our  Father's 
purposes.  It  was  His  purpose  that  this 
nation  of  ours  should  become  the  leaven 
of  liberty  that  should  leaven  the  lump, 
until  every  doorway  should  be  opened 
for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  His 
children.  It  is  accomplishing  its  mis- 
sion, and  His  blessing  will  abide  with 
it  so  long  as  the  prospects  of  liberty 
and  the  opening  of  doors  for  His  Gos- 


pel shall  manifest  themselves  in  its  on- 
ward movement. 

May  heaven's  blessings  and  peace 
abound  with  you;  may  we  love  the 
truth:  may  we  love  the  principles  of 
liberty;  may  we  love  to  extend  those 
principles;  and  may  we  love  the  souls 
of  men  more  than  we  love  our  own 
lives;  utilize  the  talents  the  Father  has 
given  us,  and  see  that  men  shall  learn 
of  His  ways  and  walk  in  His  paths,  is 
mv  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  B.  F.  JOHNSON. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
a  pleasure  that  I  did  not  expect,  to 
have  the  privilege  of  standing  here  to 
bear  my  humble  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  words  this  day  spoken  in  your 
hearing — the  truth  of  the  great  fact 
that  God  has  set  His  hand  to  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  great  purpose  of 
gathering  together  all  things  in  one 
in  Christ.  I  feel  to  express  my  grati- 
tude that  God  has  given  me  the  privi- 
lege of  living  in  this  day  of  the  harvest 
time  of  the  earth — a  period  toward 
which  all  energies,  all  desires  and 
hopes  have  been  directed  from  the  ear- 
liest times.  I  know  that  God  lives;  I 
know  that  Jesus  Christ  lives;  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
the  Most  High  God.  It  is  a  pleasure 
to  me  to  look  around  upon  this  vast 
assembly  and  say  to  you  that  this  is 
my  testimony,  and  that  I  know  that  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  is  the  work  of  God. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Light 
and  Truth." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  Oct.  7th,  10  a.  m.— The  choir 
and  congregation  sang: 

The  time  is  far  spent,  there  is  little  re- 
maining 

To  publish  glad  tidings  by  sea  and  by 
land, 

Then  hasten  ye  heralds,  go  forward 
proclaiming: 
Repent  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
at  hand. 

Prayer  by  Elder  John  Nicholson. 


Singing  by  the  choir: 

Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 

Uttered  or  unexpressed; 
The  motion  of  a  hidden  fire, 

That  trembles  in  the  breast. 

The  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
were  presented  by  President  George  Q. 
Cannon,  for  the  votes  of  the  assem- 
blage, as  follows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in 
all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon,  as  first  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

As  members  of  the  council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor.  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson  and  Reed 
Smoot. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as  Prophets, 
Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church,  John  Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John 
R.  Winder  as  his  first  and  second  coun- 
selors. 

Anthon  H.  Lund  as  Church  Historian 
and  general  church  recorder. 

As  trustee-in-trust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshippers  know  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  Lorenzo  Snow. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education,  Lorenzo  Snow, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
Sharp. Joseph  F.  Smith, John  Nicholson 
and  George  H.  Brimhall. 

As  general  superintendent  of  Church 
schools,  Karl  G.  Maeser. 

As  secretary  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education,  George  Reynolds. 

As  members  of  the  board  of  examin- 
ers, Karl  G.  Maeser,  George  H.  Brim- 
hall,  Joshua  H.  Paul,  James  H.  Linford 
and  John  M.  Mills. 

As  secretary  of  the  board  of  examin- 
ers, John  M.  Mills. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety: 

Zina  D.  H.  Young,  president;  Jane  S. 
Richards,  first  vice  president;  Bath- 
sheba  W.  Smith,  second  vice  president; 
Sarah  J.  Cannon,  third  vice  president; 
Emmeline  B.  Wells,  secretary-  M.  Isa- 
bella    Home,     treasurer.  Directors: 


Roumania  B.  Pratt,  Lucy  S.  Cardon, 
Mary  Pitchforth,  Elizabeth  J.  Steven- 
son, Aurilla  Hatch,  Martha  B.  Cannon, 
Julina  L.  Smith,  Rebecca  Standring, 
Emelia  D.  Madsen,  Susan  Grant,  Har- 
riet E.  Brown,  Helena  E.  Madsen, 
Hattie  Brown,  Emma  Woodruff,  Emily 
S.  Richards,  Ellis  R.  Shipp,  Julia  P.  M. 
Farnsworth. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Sunday 
schools: 

George  Q.  Cannon,  general  superin- 
tendent; Karl  G.  Maeser,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Horace  S.  En- 
sign, general  secretary;  George  Rey- 
nolds, general  treasurer.  Members  of 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Board:  George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C. 
Griggs,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  W. 
Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure, 
John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  William 
D.  Owen  Seymour  B.  Young,  George  D. 
Pyper,  Henry  Peterson. 

General  authorities  of  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  associa- 
tions: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  general  superintend- 
ent; Joseph  F.  Smith,  Heber  J.  Grant, 

B.  H.  Roberts,  assistants;  Thomas  Hull, 
secretary  and  treasurer;  Evan 
Stephens,  music  director;  Horace  S. 
Ensign,  assistant  music  director. 

Board  of  Aids— Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, Junius  F.  Wells,  Milton  H.  Hardy, 
Rodney  C.  Badger,  Geo.  H.  Brimhall, 
Edw.  H.  Anderson,  Douglas  M.  Todd, 
Nephi  L.  Morris,  Willard  Done,  Le  Roi 

C.  Snow,  Frank  Y.  Taylor,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Jos.  W.  Mc- 
Murrin, Reed  Smoot,  Briant  S.  Hinck- 
ley, Moses  W.  Taylor. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tions: 

Elmina  S.  Taylor,  president;  Maria  Y. 
Dougall,  first  counselor;  Martha  H.  Tin- 
gey,  second  counselor;  Ann  M.  Cannon, 
secretary  and  treasurer;  Joan  Campbell, 
recording  secretary. 

Board  of  Aids— Adella  W.  Eardley. 
Sarah   Eddington,     Agnes  Campbell, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


43 


Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Minnie  J.  Snow,  May 
Booth  .  Talmage,  Rose  W.  Bennett, 
Emma  Goddard,  Alice  K.  Smith,  Eliza- 
beth C.  McCune,  Ruth  M.  Fox,  Julia  M. 
Brixen,  Helen  W.  Woodruff,  Augusta 
W.  Grant,  Mary  A.  Freeze,  Susa 
Y.  Gates. 

General  authorities  of  the  Primary 
associations: 

Louie  B.  Felt,  president;  Lillie  T. 
Freeze,  first  counselor;  Josephine  B. 
West,  second  counselor;  May  Anderson, 
secretary  and  treasurer;  Olive  Der- 
bid^e.  assistant  secretary;  Euphemia  I. 
Burnham,  recording  secretary. 

Board  of  Aids — Aurelia  S.  Rogers, 
Lulu  Greene  Richards,  Camilla  C.  Cobb, 
Cornelia  H.  Clayton,  Belle  S.  Ross,  S. 
E.  Hyde,  Zaidee  W.  Miles. 

Officers  of  Religion  Classes — Anthon 
H.  Lund,  general  superintendent-  Karl 
G.  Maeser,  assistant  superintendent; 
Rudger  Clawson,  assistant  superintend- 
ent. 

Leader  and  Director  of  the  Taberna- 
cle Choir — Evan  Stephens,  with  Horace 
S.  Ensign  as  his  assistant;  John  J.  Mc- 
Clellan  as  organist,  and  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  choir. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  gen- 
eral conference. 

All  the  voting  was  affirmatively  unan- 
imous. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

A  paramount  consideration — Good  men  should  be 
selected  for  office — One-sided  education  unsat- 
isfactory— Exhortation  to  Stake  Presidents 
and  Bishops — A  day  of  separation  approaching. 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  me  to  look 
upon  this  vast  concourse  of  people.  The 
building  is  crowded  to  its  utmost  capac- 
ity, and  I  rejoice  in  meeting  so  many  of 
my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  as- 
sembled on  this  occasion  to  worship  the 
Lord  our  God.  It  is  on  occasions  of  this 
kind  that  the  power  of  the  people  is 
manifest.  When  we  come  togethei 
united  in  our  hearts  in  prayer  to  Al- 
mighty God,  there  is  a  strength  devel- 
oped among  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
forces  itself  upon  the  notice  of  the 
civilized  world.  There  is  a  powei 
among  the  Saints,  endowed  as  they  are 
with  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  cannot  be 
witnessed  in  any  other  congregation  on 
the  earth.  It  is  not  a  loud  and  boister 
ous  demonstration,  but  it  is  a  cuiet 
power   that  penetrates   to   the  hearts 


of  the  human  family  who  contemplate 
the  great  work  which  this  people  have 
undertaken  to  accomplish,  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit,  for  the 
amelioration  of  the  condition  of  man- 
kind. God  has  been  kind  to  His  sons 
and  daughters,  and  especially  so  to 
those  who  have  taken  upon  them  the 
name  of  Christ.  True,  we  are  a  small 
people;  but  if  we  do  anything  out  of 
the  ordinary  it  is  heralded  abroad  to 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  we  are 
published  from  one  end  of  this  land  to 
the  other. 

I  do  not  suppose  that  I  could  mention 
the  word  "politics"  in  this  congregation 
without  arousing  the  ire  of  some  on  the 
outside,  and  perhaps  some  on  the  in- 
side, and  having  to  meet  the  remon- 
strance of  manyof  my  friends.  But  there 
are  points  of  doctrine,  if  you  choose  to 
call  them  so,  which  press  upon  me  to 
that  extent  that  I  would  rather  main- 
tain silence  than  to  be 
called  upon  to  speak  and 
not  give  them  forth.  Some  things 
have  come  to  this  earth  that  are  para- 
mount to  all  other  considerations  with 
me.  The  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness  are  beyond  all  other  con- 
siderations that  have  ever  entered  into 
my  heart.  But  what  do  these  words 
mean?  To  me  they  mean  that  I  will 
support  the  institutions  that  God  sus- 
tains; that  I  will  sustain  the  organiza- 
tion which  He  has  so  many  times  testi 
fled  to  me  that  He  has  inaugurated 
for  the  accomplishment  of  the  sal- 
vation of  his  sons  and  daughters  whom 
He  has  sent  into  this  vast  school  of 
experience.  Will  I  serve  God,  or 
will  I  serve  Mammon?  is  tbe  question 
that  arises  in  my  breast,  and  I  feel  it 
in  my  soul. 

If  the  hereafter  is  important  to  me, 
what  is  the  condition  of  my  soul  today? 
I  may  have  to  leave  this  state  of  ex- 
istence any  moment,  or  I  may  live  for 
years.  But  what  situation  am  I  in? 
How  does  the  Almighty  view  me  as  a 
man  whom  He  has  elected  to  bear  the 
holy  vessels  of  the  Lord,  to  receive  His 
Priesthood,  and  to  assist  in  bringing  to 
pass  His  righteous  purposes  in  the  lat- 
ter days?  If  I  am  not  in  a  saved  condi- 
tion this  moment,  I  am  in  a  bad  plight, 
because  I  have  no  assurance  that  life 
will  be  lengthened  out  to  me.  I  believe 
in  laboring  for  my  friends;  but  I  have 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


no  friend  in  this  world  that  stands  be- 
tween me  and  my  God.  Then  if  I  have 
elected  to  follow  Him,  what  will  I  do  as 
one  who  has  taken  upon  him  this  re- 
sponsibility? I  tell  you  one  thing  that 
I  will  do:  I  will  support  good  men  in 
every  position.  I  care  not  what  prop- 
osition may  be  submitted  to  me,  I  will 
sustain  good  men.  For  it  is  written, 
"When  the  wicked  rule,  the  people 
mourn."  When  the  righteous  rule,  the 
people  rejoice.  In  every  condition, 
spiritual  and  temporal,  moral,  political, 
religious,  and  in  every  sense  of  the 
word,  I  stand  before  God  as  a  man  who 
has  covenanted  before  Him  and  before 
His  people,  solemnly  in  sacred  places, 
that  I  will  sustain  Him  and  His  king- 
dom and  people.  I  am  not  a  covenant- 
breaker,  unless  I  depart  from  the  coun- 
sels of  the  Spirit  of  God  within  me.  I 
seek  to  have  that  spirit  constantly  with 
me;  and  when  there  is  any  doubt  I 
seek  light  from  the  source  that  He  has 
appointed  to  direct  me  in  the  things  of 
life,  here  and  hereafter. 

Am  I  talking  about  politics?  No. 
But  I  tell  you  one  thing  that  burns  in 
me,  and  I  pray  to  God  that  it  may 
never  be  extinguished.  The  last  words 
that  our  late  President  said  to  me  were, 
"Sustain  good  men,  and  put  good  men 
into  office."  Good  men,  not  drunkards, 
not  immoral  men.  None  of  this  class  of 
individuals  shall  rule  over  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  with  my  consent,  or  by  my 
vote  and  acquiescence.  I  ask  you, 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  latter-day  sin- 
ners, men  in  the  Church  and  men  out 
of  the  Church,  shall  we  have  men  who 
are  just  and  upright,  whether  they  are 
Mormons,  Jews  or  Gentiles?  Shall  we 
have  men  who  are  honorable  and  will 
seek  the  interests  of  the  honest  of  every 
nation  and  creed?  Tou  know  as  well 
as  I  do,  that  the  perpetuity  of  this  peo- 
ple, the  perpetuity  of  the  nation,  de- 
pends upon  the  virtue  that  is  developed 
in  the  midst  of  the  people.  It  is  a  re- 
proach to  any  nation,  or  to  any  indi- 
vidual, to  be  unvirtuous.  I  feel  for  one 
that  the  day  is  come  when  the  voice  of 
this  people  shall  be  raised  for  good  men 
to  rule  over  us.  What  do  I  care  about 
party  feeling!  A  lot  of  men  meet  to- 
gether and  get,  up  names,  among  them 
some  shyster  that  has  foisted  himself 
into  notice  through  some  means  or 
other  of  his  own  making,  and  they  rush 


that  upon  me,  and  because  I  would  not 
vote  for  such  men  two  or  three  years 
ago,  they  said,  "You  are  a  mugwump." 
Well,  I  would  rather  be  a  know-nothing 
than  to  subscribe  to  conditions  which 
will  make  me  responsible  for  the  actions 
of  the  wicked.  I  will  not  do  it,  I  do  not 
care  who  it  cuts,  nor  what  the  conse- 
quences may  be.  I  say  it  to  the  nation, 
I  say  it  to  the  world:  As  God  lives,  I 
will  never  support  a  man  that  I  know 
is  a  wicked  man,  for  any  office.  The 
word  of  the  Prophet  of  God  has, been 
given  to  me,  as  it  has  to  you,  and  we 
have  got  to  take  cognizance  of  these 
things. 

There  is  another  subject — education. 
Educate  our  children!  That  is  right  and 
good.  A  great  share  of  our  attention  is 
given  now  to  educating  our  youth — and 
how?  Well,  I  would  not  have  to  go  far 
in  this  State  to  find  an  example.  In  the 
early  days  here  we  owned  lots  in  the 
ten-acre  field,  and  in  the  five-acre  plat, 
and  in  the  city  plat,  and  we  paid  taxes 
on  them.  By  and  by  harder  times  came, 
taxes  increased,  and  we  sold  the  ten- 
acre  lot  to  pay  the  taxes  on  the  other. 
Then  the  five-acre  lots  went,  and  by  and 
by  the  city  lots  began  to  go.  Here  is  a 
case  of  a  badly  balanced  estate — plenty 
of  realty,  but  no  cash  to  keep  up  the 
current  expenses.  That  is  the  condition 
in  which  our  educational  affairs  are  at 
the  present  time.  We  educate  one  side 
of  the  individual,  and  the  other  side  re- 
mains unimproved.  Why  do  I  say  tha. . 
Because  all  that  goes  to  make  the 
foundation  of  life,  that  builds 
up  a  country,  and  that  develops  the 
mines  and  the  manufactures,  is  left  out 
of  the  education.     It  is  all  letters! 

Educate  a  young  man  in  mineralogy 
in  our  schools,  and  what  does  he  know? 
Take  him  into  the  field,  where  you  think 
he  will  be  useful,  and  you  will  find 
that  one  of  the  most  unlearned  of  men 
who  has  made  a  little  practical  study 
of  this  subject  will  go  around  him  a 
dozen  times  a  day.  Why?  Because 
the  educated  man  cannot  apply  the 
knowledge  he  has  received.  Educate 
him  as  a  surveyor.  Well,  he  has  to-  go 
into  the  field  to  labor  and  practice  for 
a  long  time  before  he  becomes  proficient 
in  that  department.  The  education  is 
good,  but  where  the  school  drops  them 
we  leave  them,  and  the  result  is,  they 
have  to  get  some  other  occupation  to 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


45 


make  a  living.  Where  are  the  shoe- 
makers, and  the  manufacturers  of  wool- 
len and  cotton  goods?  Is  there  a  man 
educated  in  Utah  that  can  go  right  into 
a  woollen  or  a  cotton  factory  and  un- 
derstand the  business?  Is  there  a  man 
that  can  go  into  the  south  and  take 
up  the  business  of  manufacturing  cot- 
ton goods?  There  is  not  such  a  man 
educated  in  the  State,  unless  he  is  down 
South,  and  I  doubt  there  being  any 
there  who  could  go  into  the  cotton  fac- 
tory and  know  what  to  do  with  the  ma- 
chinery and  the  cotton.  This  is  a 
languishing  industry  in  Utah. 

There  was  an  ox  killed  in  one  of  the 
settlements,  with  a  certain  brand  on 
the  hide.  That  ox-hide  was  sold,  and 
in  about  eight  or  ten  months  it  re- 
turned to  that  settlement  in  the  shape 
of  sole  leather,  with  the  same  brand 
on  it.  From  the  time  it  left  Wellsville 
until  it  was  returned  here  it  had  passed 
through  the  hands  of  eleven  men,  and 
we  paid  them  for  handling  it.  This  is 
the  system  that  we  have  been  following. 
If  it  had  not  been  for  the  mercy  of  God, 
who  saw  our  ignorance  and  slothfulness 
and  put  it  aside,  this  people  would  have 
been  in  poor  temporal  circumstances  in 
these  mountains.  But  I  do  believe  that 
the  time  has  come  and  sufficient  in- 
formation has  been  given  us,  that  if  we 
do  not  take  hold  of  these  things  and 
do  them  properly,  God  will  make  us 
responsible  and  we  will  suffer  for  it. 
I  believe  in  education,  but  I  want  to 
see  the  boys  and  girls  come  out  with 
an  education  at  their  fingers'  ends  as 
well  as  in  their  brains,  that  they  may 
be  able  to  support  themselves.  Take 
our  girls  who  are  educated  and  receive 
commissions  to  teach,  and  if  they  can- 
not get  schools,  what  do  they 
do?  They  clerk  in  a  store,  or  do 
■something  or  other  that  people  can  do 
who  have  had  very  little  education,  and 
their  time  has  been  wasted,  because 
their  education  has  not  been  in  the 
rigbt  direction. 

I  believe  today  that  God  intends  that 
this  people  shall  take  hold  of  thest 
manufacturing  institutions,  and  put 
•their  sons  and  daughters  to  such  laboi 
as  is  suited  to  them.  Educate  them 
in  these  things  as  well  as  in  letters. 
If  we  do  not  do  this,  where  shall  we 
draw  from  for  men  with  the  capacit> 


to  build  up  Zion  and  make  it  a  perfect 
home0  It  has  been  stated  that  Utah 
includes  within  her  borders  all  that  is 
necessary  to  make  the  people  wealthy. 
But  we  are  neglecting  the  very  means 
that  God  had  put  in  our  hands  to  edu- 
cate our  children  in  the  right  way.  The 
time  has  come,  in  my  opinion,  when  oui 
schools,  instead  of  having  so  much  in 
the  line  of  gymnastics,  should  give 
good  manual  training.  They  are  good 
to  develoD  the  muscles  it  is  true,  if 
they  developed  them  with  the  hoer  or 
the  ax,  or  the  plow,  or  something  that 
is  useful,  it  would  do  them  more  ^ood. 
If  we  could  have  our  little  farms,  our 
blacksmith  shops,  our  turning  lathes, 
our  carpenter's  shops,  our  factories,  and 
educate  our  children  in  these  things  a& 
they  go  along,  we  would  turn  out  men 
who  could  be  moulded  and  used  for  the 
benefit  and  unbuilding  of  the  Zion  of 
our  God.  Zion  has  to  be  built  up,  and 
we  want  men  who  are  capable  of  super- 
intending in  every  department.  God 
designs  that  men  should  be  educated 
for  this  purpose. 

There  are  two  or  three  more  subjects, 
but  I  forget  them.  Perhaps  I  have 
said  enough.  However,  I  have  said 
what  is  in  my  heart;  and  I  say  to  the 
Presidents  of  Stakes,  and  to  the  quor- 
ums of  the  Priesthood,  did  you  hear  the 
words  that  were  spoken  by  one  of  the 
brethren  in  relation  to  this  matter? 
There  is  President  Snow  and  his  two 
counselors,  and  here  are  the  Twelve 
Apostles;  I  testify  from  actual  knowl- 
edge that  these  men  are  one,  spiritually 
and  in  every  way  that  Christ  is  one 
with  the  Father,  to  the  extent  of  their 
knowledge.  The  Presidents  of  Seven- 
ties are  one  with  the  Twelve.  Why 
cannot  every  quorum  of  Seventy  be  one 
with  the  Presidents  of  the  Seventies? 
Why  cannot  the  Elders  be  one,  the 
High  Priests  be  one,  and  all  of  us 
come  together  as  one  man.  No,  you  will 
hear  men  say,  I  cannot  do  that;  I  can- 
not swallow  that  doctrine.  Where  does 
it  come  from?  From  the  head.  You 
cannot  swallow  it?  It  is  the  only  medi- 
cine that  will  cure  you.  I  wish  that  the 
great  body  of  the  Church  could  cleanse 
itself  and  be  delivered  from  the  corrup- 
tion which  surrounds  it.  But  we  can- 
not just  yet.  Here,  however,  is  the 
antidote  for  the  ills  to  which  human 


*6 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE 


life  is  heir:  It  is  to  be  one  before  God. 
I  testify  here  today  that  unless  we  are 
one  we  will  not  be  received  by  our 
Savior  when  He  conies. 

Presidents  of  Stakes,  when  will  you 
see  that  the  Bishops  do  their  duty? 
Bishops,  when  will  you  see  that 
those  under  your  charge  do  their 
duty?  How  long  will  you  pro- 
crastinate? How  many  times 
will  you  have  to  be  taught  this  subject. 
I  say  to  you,  brethren,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord,  rise  up  and  from  this  time 
forth  see  that  your  wards,  your  Stakes 
and  your  quorums,  are  thoroughly 
renovated,  and  that  the  people  attend 
their  meetings.  If  they  do  not,  there 
will  be  a  great  deal  of  dropping  off  in 
the  near  future;  for  God  will  not  submit 
to  this  land  being  polluted.  I  tell  you 
the  day  is  not  far  distant  when  you 
will  see  a  separation  between  the  sheep 
and  the  goats.  I  felt  impressed  with 
this  when  it  was  mooted  the  other  day 
by  a  man  who  had  a  right  to  teach  it, 
who  said  that  the  things  before  this 
people  will  try  them  to  the  uttermost, 
and  we  have  to  round  up  our  shoulders 
and  prepare  for  them,  or,  as  God  lives, 
we  will  turn  our  backs  upon  the  Church 
of  Christ.  That  is  the  condition,  and  I 
testify  to  it.  How  long  will  we  hold 
back  and  say,  "Oh!  I  am  floating  with 
the  current;  I  go  along  as  the  current 
takes  me,  and .  Brother  So-and-So  and 
I  hobnob  together,  and  I  guess  we  are 
all  right."  Oh!  you  do  not  know  the 
consequences  of  neglect.  If  you  did, 
brethren  and  sisters,  you  would  not 
neglect  the  principles  that  God  has 
given. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you 
in  every  particular.  Do  not  let  the 
summer  pass  and  the  harvest  end  and 
you  be  forced  to  say,  Lo,  my  soul  is  not 
saved.  Now  is  the  summer,  and  when 
the  harvest  shall  end  let  it  be  that  you 
are  in  the  kingdom  with  those  whom 
Christ  has  established.  May  God  grant 
eternal  life  to  the  people.  God  bless  our 
Presidency,  and  the  people,  and  give 
us  strength  that  we  may  overcome  and 
not  do  anything  harshly.  I  have  been 
cautioned  by  the  Spirit  not  to  do  it;  but 
it  is  all  I  can  do  to  keep  it  down  some- 
times. Do  nothing  rashly.  Be  moder- 
ate and  wise  in  all  things.  Let  God 
rule,  whose  right  it  is  to  rule,  and  He 


will  bring  all  things  out  for  the  good  of 
His  people,  if  we  do  our  duty;  which 
may  God  grant,  for  Christ's  sake. 
Amen. 

"Come  unto  Me"  was  sung  by  Brother 
Anthony  C.  Lund. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Our  labors  relate  to  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual 
things — Temple  work — Laws  and  ordinances 
administered  now  the  same  as  administered  in 
the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — Law  of 
Tithing — Necessity  for  greater  Union— Home 
industries. 

I  am  requested  to  occupy  the  few 
minutes  that  remain  of  this  forenoon 
meeting.  I  most  earnestly  endorse  all 
the  subjects  that  have  been  dwelt  upon 
by  the  Apostles  during  our  Conference, 
and  I  sincerely  hope  that  these  import- 
ant matters  will  find  an  abiding  place 
in  the  memory  of  the  people.  We  are  en- 
gaged in  a  temporal  as  well  as  in  a 
spiritual  labor.  You  must  continue  to 
bear  in  mind  that  the  temporal  and  the 
spiritual  are  blended.  They  are  not 
separate.  One  cannot  be  carried  on 
without  the  other,  so  long  as  we  are 
here  in  mortality.  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  on  the 
earth  is  a  physical  organization  as  well 
as  a  spiritual  organization.  We  need 
practical  faith — that  is,  we  need  to 
practice  the  principles  of  our  faith. 
Without  the  practice  of  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  we  can  never  realize  our 
hopes  and  expectations  concerning  the 
results  of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

We  are  engaged  in  temple  work.  We 
have  built  four  temples  in  this  land, 
and  we  built  two  temples  in  the  eastern 
country  before  we  came  here.  During 
the  lifetime  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
one  of  the  two  was  built  and  dedicated, 
and  the  foundation  of  the  other  was 
laid  and  the  walls  had  well  progressed 
when  he  was  martyred.  It  was  finished 
by  the  efforts  of  the  people  under  the 
most  trying  circumstances  and  in  pov- 
erty, and  was  dedicated  unto  the  Lord. 
The  ordinances  of  the  house  of  God 
were  administered  therein  as  they  had 
been  taught  to  the  leading  authorities 
of  the  Church  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  himself.  The  same  Gospel,  the 
same  ordinances,  the  same  authority 
and  blessings  that  were  administered  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  taught 
by  him  to  his  associates  are  now  being 
enjoyed  by  and  taught  to  the  Latter- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


47 


day  Saints  in  the  four  temples  that 
have  been  built  in  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  When  you  hear  anybody 
say  that  we  have  changed  the  ordin- 
ances, that  we  have  transgressed  the 
laws,  or  have  broken  the  everlasting 
covenants  which  were  entered  into  un- 
der the  personal  administration  of  the 
•Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  tell  them  for  me, 
tell  them  for  President  Snow,  for  Presi- 
dent Cannon,  and  for  all  those  who  are 
living  today  who  received  blessings  and 
ordinances  under  the  hands  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that 
they  are  in  error.  The  same  Gos- 
pel prevails  today,  and  the  same 
ordinances  are  administered  to-day, 
both  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead, as 
were  administered  by  the  Prophet,  him- 
self, and  delivered  by  him  to  the. 
Church.  So  far  as  I  know,  there  is  not 
an  ordinance  of  the  Church  now  en- 
joyed or  practiced  that  was  not  re- 
vealed to  the  Church  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  know  of  no  new  doc- 
trine that  has  been  revealed.  Princi- 
ples that  were  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  have  grown  and  developed  more 
fully  and  clearly  to  the  understanding; 
but  we  have  received  nothing  new  that 
I  know  of.  Yet  if  we  should  receive 
something  new,  through  the  proper 
channels  of  the  Church,  we  should  be 
as  ready  and  willing  to  receive  it  as 
we  were  or  would  be  to  receive  the 
same  at  the  hands  of  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph himself. 

The  law  of  tithing  is  no  new  doctrine. 
The  revelation  upon  that  principle  was 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
The  only  trouble  is,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  more  or  less  neglected  to 
obey  that  law.  It  is  to  the  credit  of 
President  Snow  and  his  administration, 
and  to  the  credit  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  they  have  hearkened  to  his 
counsel  and  that  many  of  us  observe 
that  law  more  faithfully  today  than  we 
have  done  in  years  past.  So  far  as  I  am 
personally  concerned  (and  I  think  I 
could  speak  for  some  others  of  my  ac- 
quaintance, although  I  prefer  that  they 
should  speak  for  themselves),  the 
preaching  of  the  law  of  tithing  within 
the  last  year  and  a  half  has 
made  not  one  whit  of  difference 
with  me.  My  tithing  today  is  the  tenth 
of     all     that     God     gives   me.  My 


tithing  heretofore  has  been  the  tenth 
of  all  that  the  Lord  has  given  unto  me. 
It  has  been  my  pleasure  as  well  as  my 
bounden  duty  to  pay  my  tithing  to  the 
Church  every  year  on  everything  that 
the  Lord  has  made  me  steward  over. 
The  man  who  does  not  believe  in  this 
principle  ignores  a  revelation  of  God 
made  known  through  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith.  It  is  a  commandment  unto 
the  people,  with  promise.  It  is  essential 
to  the  temporal  welfare  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  sectarian  world  keeps  up  their 
revenue  by  begging,  by  passing  around 
the  collection-box  every  time  they  as- 
semble for  worship.  They  beg  from  the 
people  for  the  maintenance  of  their 
churches.  In  their  case  the  burden  falls 
upon  those  who  are  willing  to  contrib- 
ute of  their  substance.  -Chose  who  are 
not  willing  or  not  so  disposed,  bear  no 
part  of  the  burden.  This  is  unequal. 
It  is  not  just.  Furthermore,  it  is 
a  system  of  the  world,  devised  by 
man;  and  if  there  were  a  blessing  at- 
tached to  the  maintenace  of  their 
churches,  those  who  were  unwilling  to 
contribute  would,  of  necessity,  not  be 
entitled  to  the  blessing.  In  the  law  of 
God  more  is  not  asked  of  one  man  than 
of  another.  The  Lord  has  placed  the 
duty  or  burden  if  duty  with  compen- 
sating blessings  can  be  called  a  burden 
equally  upon  every  individual.  His  re- 
quirement is  a  just  one,  and  it  is  sim- 
ply to  give  one-tenth  of  what  He  gives 
to  us  as  the  reward  of  our  industry, 
economy  and  perseverance.  If  my  one- 
tenth  is  large  the  payment  of  it  is  no 
more  of  a  burden  upon  me  than  it  is 
ucon  the  man  whose  tenth  is  a  small 
amount.  It  is  only  a  tenth  for  all — no 
more,  no  less.  The  Lord  requires  no 
more,  under  this  law;  and  the  interests 
of  the  Church  would,  under  existing 
circumstances,  require  no  more  if  all 
the  people  would  observe  the  law. 
Therefore,  those  who  neglect  this  privi- 
lege neglect  their  opportunity  to  re- 
ceive a  blessing  at  the  hands  of  God. 
They  are  not  law-abiding  members  of 
the  Church;  for  a  man  who  keeps  all 
the  laws,  save  one,  and  offends 
in  not  keeping  that,  he  is  a  law-break- 
er, and  he  is  not  in  harmony  with  the 
purposes  of  the  Almighty.  When  he  is 
-veighed  in  the  balance,  he  must  of  ne- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


rcsvsit;-  be  found  wanting,  because  he 
has  disobeyed  one  law  at  least  that  has 
been  given  for  his  own  good  as  well  as 
for  the  maintenance  of  the  temporal 
interests  of  the  Church.  It  is  the  law 
of  revenue  for  the  Church.  We  do  not 
come  to  you  begging,  nor  asking  favors. 
We  merely  ask  you  to  do  your  duty  as 
we  do  ours,  to  obey  the  law  of  God  as 
we  do,  and  thereby  put  yourselves  in 
harmony  with  the  requirements  of  God, 
by  which  you  help  yourselves  to  the 
favor  and  blessing  of  the  Almighty, 
and  assist  in  maintaining  the  tempor- 
al interests  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on 
earth. 

We  ask  you  also  to  be  united,  to  be 
one.  The  brethren  have  said  a  good 
deal  during  this  conference  about  one- 
ness. I  believe  in  union.  I  believe  that 
except  we  are  one  in  those  things  which 
pertain  to  the  building  up  of  Zion,  we 
are  not  God's  children.  But  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  we  are  not  one.  There 
is  not  that  union  amongst  us  that 
should  exist;  sometimes  when  President 
Snow  tells  a  brother  what  he  would  like 
him  to  do,  he  at  once  turns  on  his  heel 
and  says  that  comes  in  contact  with 
his  manhood  and  his  independence,  and 
he  ^refers  to  follow  the  bent  of  his  own 
mind  rather  than  to  take  such  counsel. 
In  that  respect  we  are  not  always  one. 
And  I  want  to  say  that  this  lack  of  one- 
ness is  not  confined  to  the  people.  It 
reaches  into  the  higher  ranks  of  the 
Priesthood,  if  I  have  any  power  to  dis- 
cern spirits. 

Let  me  read  what  the  Lord  says: 

■'And  now,  verily  verily  I  say  unto 
you  concerning  the  laws  of  the  land 
it  is  my  will  that  my  people  should 
observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I 
command  them." 

This  is  the  first  point.  It  is  the  hub 
of  the  wheel. 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is 
constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights 
and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind, 
and  is  justifiable  before  me; 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you, 
and  your  brethren  of  my  Church,  in 
befriending  that  law  which  is  the 
constitutional  law  of  the  land; 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man, 
whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  these, 
cometh  of  evil. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free, 
therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and  the 
law  also  maketh  you  free; 


"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule 
the  people  mourn; 

"Wherefore,  honest  men,  and  wise 
men,  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should 
observe  to  uphold;  otherwise  whatso- 
ever is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil." 

The  question  in  my  mind  is  this: 
Who  is  to  judge  who  are  the  good  men 
and  the  wise  men?  If  you  leave  me 
to  judge,  I  say  one  man;  if  you  leave 
Brother  Brigham  to  judge,  he  may  say 
another  man;  or,  if  we  leave  it  to  the 
people  to  judge,  one  says  this  is  the 
wise  man,  and  another  says  that  is  the 
wise  man.  The  question  with  me  is: 
Am  I  in  a  frame  of  mind,  that  when 
I  get  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  to  who 
is  the  right  man,  will  I  obey  it,  no 
matter  if  it  does  come  contrary  to  my 
convictions  or  predilections?  If  I 
reel  that  I  can  obey  the  word  of  God 
on  this  matter,  then  I  am  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  the  work  of  God.  If 
I  cannot  do  it,  I  am  not  in  harmony 
with  that  spirit. 

We  believe  in  home  industry.  We 
believe  in  self-protection.  We  want 
the  people  to  patronize  home  indus- 
tries, that  they  may  not  languish  or 
fail  in  our  midst.  Today  we  have  a 
woolen  factory  down  in  Provo.  It  has 
been  there  for  many  years.  President 
Young  was  the  practical  founder  of  it. 
He  inaugurated  it.  What  for?  That 
we  might  make  our  own  blankets,  and 
not  have  to  import  them;  that  we 
might  make  our  own  wearing  ap- 
parel, employ  our  own  people,  keep  our 
money  at  home,  and  grow  wealthy,  as 
the  Lord  has  designed  we  should.  But 
what  is  the  result?  Eighty-five  per  cent 
of  the  goods  manufactured  at  that  fac- 
tory has  to  find  a  market  in  the 
east,  or  west,  for  the  want  of 
support  at  home.  We  have  to 
send  our  goods  abroad  to  sell  them. 
Think  of  it!  only  fifteen  per 
cent  of  the  product  of  the  woolen  mills 
at  Provo  are  consumed  by  the  people  at 
home;  and  yet  that  factory  has  not  ca- 
pacity enough  to  furnish  one-half  of 
what  the  people  here  require— not  one- 
o.uarter,  Brother  Smoot  says,  and  he 
knows.  How  loyal  we  are  to  the  prin- 
ciples that  have  been  taught  us  by 
Brigham  Young!  How  loyal  we  are  to 
our  own  interests!  Are  you  not  ashamed 
of   these   facts?     I   wear  home-made 


ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 


49 


clothes,  and  I  am  proud  of  them.  I 
have  worn  but  little  else  for  years.  If 
I  have  to  pay  a  little  more  for  them 
than  for  eastern  goods — which  I  do  not 
think  I  do — they  are  more  serviceable, 
and  it  is  far  cheaper  in  the  long  run. 
But  no!  Some  of  our  people  would 
rather  buy  shoddy  from  the  east,  made 
by  eastern  workmen  from  rags  gathered 
from  pest  houses  and  from  the  gutters, 
and  ground  up  and  mixed  into  your 
cloth  that  you  buy  from  the  world. 
You  would  rather  have  this  than  pat- 
ronize home  manufacture.  Are  you 
ashamed  of  my  appearance?  These 
clothes  that  I  wear  are  of  home-made 
cloth;  the  wool  is  from  Utah  sheep, 
made  up  by  Utah  workmen  at  the  Provo 
factory;  and  the  clothes  themselves 
were  cut  and  made  by  Utah  tailors  at 
John  C.  Cutler's.  I  am  not  ashamed  of 
them.  I  therefore  admonish  you  to  look 
to  our  home  industries.  Not  only  is  the 
Provo  factory  manufacturing  goods; 
but  there  are  factories  elsewhere.  There 
is  one  in  Ogden,  another  in  Logan  and 
still  others  on  a  small  scale.  They  all 
are  struggling  against  great  odds,  be- 
cause the  people  are  not  in  sympathy 
with  them;  in  fact,  they  .discriminate 
against  them  by  buying  their  shoddy 
goods  from  the  east  instead  of  patron- 
izing home  industries.  I  am  ashamed 
of  that  conduct.  I  think  every  honest 
and  intelligent  man  ought  to  be  ashamed 
of  such  conduct.  We  ought  to  be  loyal 
enough  to  one  another  to  sustain  our- 
selves and  make  ourselves  independent. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

'As  the  Dew  from  Heaven  Descend- 
ing" was  sung  by  Sister  Luella  Ferrin 
and  the  choir. 

Benediction  by  Bishop  William  B. 
Preston. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING  IN  THE  AS- 
SEMBLY HALL. 

Owing  to  the  large  body  of  people  un- 
able to  gain  access  to  the  Tabernacle, 
ar  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  in  the  afternoon,  begin- 
ning at  2  p.  m.,  at  which  Elder  Heber 
J.  Grant,  of  the  quorum  of  the  Apostles, 
presided. 

The  Temple  choir  and  congregation 
sang: 


Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion. 

Prayer  by  Elder  George  Romney. 
Singing: 

O,  say  what  is  truth. 

ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  a  free  people — A  word  to 
the  Missionaries — Danger  of  becoming  "rusty" 
in  the  service  of  the  Lord — An  age  of  oppor- 
tunities for  the  young — How  to  sustain  author- 
ity. 

I  am  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  be  with  you  on  this  oc- 
casion, and  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  lifting  up  my  voice  in  your  pres- 
ence in  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  it  has  been  re- 
vealed in  this  age  of  the  world.  And 
I  sincerely  trust  that  while  I  occupy 
this  position  I  may  be  blessed  of  the 
Lord  and  have  the  inspiration  of  His 
Spirit  resting  upon  me;  for  without 
that  Spirit  I  know  that  my  words 
would  be  as  a  sounding  brass  or  as  a 
tinkling  cymbal  in  the  midst  of  this 
great  body  of  people.  But  on  the  other 
hand  I  also  know  that  when  men  speak 
by  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  their  words  are  of  great  worth  to 
the  children  of  men,  not  only  to  those 
who  may  hear  the  words  that  are 
spoken,  who  are  in  the  congregation, 
but  to  the  person  that  does  the  speak- 
ing as  well.  For  all  men  are  instruct- 
ed by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  feel 
that  the  people  who  have  attended  our 
Conference  and  who  have  listened  to  the 
testimonies  and  instructions  that  have 
been  imparted  by  the  Apostles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  know  in  their  hearts 
that  the  brethren  have  been  inspired 
and  that  they  have  not  been  giving 
them  anything  that  has  been  cunningly 
devised,  but  that  they  have  been  deliv- 
ering the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
power  of  God  has  been  made  manifest 
in  the  utterances  of  His  servants. 
There  should  be  with  us  as  a  people  a 
disposition  to  receive  the  coun- 
sels that  have  been  imparted,  and 
an  anxiety  that  we  may  be  in  harmony 
with  the  servants  of  the  Lord  who  have 
been  chosen  to  direct  the  affairs  of  His 
Church  in  these  times.  It  is  a  glorious 
thing  to  have  the  feeling  in  our  hearts 
that  we  are  in  accord  with  the  authority 
of  the  Lord  and  to  feel,  inasmuch  as 
we  have  put  our  hands  to  the  plow  and 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  entered  into  covenant  with  the 
Lord  to  serve  Him  and  to  keep  His 
commandments,that  the  keeping  of  His 
commandments  is  the  greatest  desire 
that  we  have,  and  that  we  have  no 
other  God  before  the  Lord,  our 
God;  that  we  have  not  set  our  af- 
fections upon  any  other  thing,  but 
that  we  have  an  eye. single  to  the  keep- 
ing of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
and  a  determination  to  sustain  and  up- 
hold His  Priesthood.  I  take  it  that  this 
is  a  very  grave  responsibility,  and  that 
men  and  women  who  have  entered  in- 
to covenant  with  the  Lord  should  ex- 
amine themselves  and  seek  to  put 
themselves  in  such  a  condition  that 
they  would  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
that  when  we  hear  the  voice  of  the 
Good  Shepherd  we  will  be  able  to  un- 
derstand it,  and  have  a  disposition  to 
be  in  line  with  the  authority  that  God 
has  upon  the  earth. 
.  The  rights,  independence  and  liberty 
of  no  man  can  be  infringed  upon  in  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  God. 
We  hear  when  we  are  away  from  home 
as  missionaries  among  the  nations 
many  things  concerning  the  bondage  of 
the  people,  that  we  are  priest-ridden, 
and  that  we  are  not  allowed  to  do  the 
things  that  we  desire  to  do;  but  we 
know  by  our  own  experiences  that 
this  is  not  the  case.  I  know  as  an  in- 
dividual, having  been  born  and  reared 
in  the  midst  of  this  people,  that  no  man, 
no  authority,  no  priest,  or  apostle,  or 
president  has  ever  attempted  in  the 
slightest  degree  to  interfere  with  the 
liberty  that  God  has  given  me.  I  have 
had  as  g^eat  liberty  in  the 
midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
as  any  man  could  possibly  enjoy  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth.  When  I  bear 
this  testimony  I  realize  and  understand 
that  in  this  great  congregation  of 
people  every  man  and  every 
woman  who  has  received  the  Gos- 
pel and  who  is  acquainted  with  the 
spirit  and  doings  of  the  wonderful  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged  know  that 
what  I  say  is  true.  Tou  all  know  it,  be- 
cause you  have  all  had  the  same  experi- 
ence, every  member  of  the  Church 
knows  that  we  are  a  free  people. 

I  have  thought  in  listening  to  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made  by  some  of 
the  brethren,  that  there  might  be  some- 


thing said  to  the  missionaries.  A  good 
many  things  have  been  said  regarding 
the  teaching  of  the  Gospel  and  the  send- 
ing of  men  abroad  to  lift  up  their  testi- 
monies in  defense  of  the  truth;  and  it 
falls  to  my  lot  occasionally,  in  fact  quite 
often,  to  travel  among  the  people  and 
to  associate  with  missionaries  and  to 
be  in  the  company  of  men  who  have  re- 
ceived authority  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
and  whose  special  calling  it  is  to  ad- 
minister words  of  salvation  to  the  na- 
tions, as  they  are  directed  by  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  I  often  listen  to  the 
testimonies  of  returned  missionaries. 
I  have  met  a  number  during  this  con- 
ference, and  their  faces  have  been 
aglow  with  joy  and  happiness  and  with 
testimony  concerning  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  they  feel  that  they  have 
spent  a  good  and  a  profitable  time  while 
they  have  been  away  from  home  acting 
as  ambassadors  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  And  they  have  spent  a  profit- 
able time,  have  been  filled  with  the 
power  of  God,  and  have  been  instru- 
ments in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  of  ac- 
complishing a  great  deal  of  good.  They 
have  removed  prejudice  from  the  minds 
of  the  people,  through  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord.  Others  have  been  converted 
to  the  truth,  and  have  been  made  to 
know,  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  mes- 
sengers of  salvation,  holding  divine 
authority,  have  ministered  in  their 
midst.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  fill  a  mis- 
sion. It  is  a  good  thing  to  have  it  to  our 
credit  that  we  have  gone  abroad  in  the 
world  and  that  we  have  returned  in 
honor  without  bringing  disgrace  upon 
our  name,  upon  the  name  of  our  par- 
ents, or  upon  the  name  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

But  the  performance  of  a  mission  to 
the  nations  is  a  small  thing  in  the 
winning  of  the  race  upon  which  we  are 
now  set  out  for  eternal  life.  Many  a 
man  returns  from  a  mission  who  has 
valiantly  maintained  his  position,  who 
has  stood  up  in  the  presence  of  oppos- 
ir~  multitudes  and  with  the  power  of 
God  resting  upon  him  has  borne  tes- 
timony to  the  truth  of  the  glorious  Gos- 
pel, and  his  words  have  pierced  the 
hearts  and  intellects  of  the  people,  and 
they  have  been  made  to  feel  that  they 
were  listening  to  the  truth.  Many  a 
man  has  filled  a  mission  of  this  charac- 


ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 


51 


ter  and  has  done  honor  to  the  cause 
that  he  represented,  but  has  returned 
home  feeling,  in  a  little  while,  that  he 
ought  to  rest  from  the  ministry  that 
someone  else  should  take  up  the  labors 
here  at  home.  I  desire  to  lift  my  warn- 
ing voice  to  returned  missionaries.  I 
desire  to  plead  with  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  as  I  feel  it  to  be  my  duty  to 
do,  and  that  it  pertains  to  the  respon- 
sibilities that  rest  upon  me  to  lift  up 
my  voice  and  cry  aloud  to  the  mission- 
aries, the  Seventies  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
they  shall  not  seek  for  rest,  that  they 
shall  not  feel  that  they  have  accom- 
plished their  salvation,  or  that  they  are 
secure,  merely  because  they  have  filled 
a  mission  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gos- 
pel. I  feel  when  I  greet  a  young  Elder 
returning  from  abroad  that  the  grav- 
est period  of  his  life  stands  before  him 
when  he  returns,  when  there  is  fear 
that  he  may  become  a  little  careless, 
that  he  may  have  a  disposition  to  seek 
after  the  rest  that  many  have  sought 
after,  and  in  seeking  after  that 
rest  they  have  found  not  only  rest 
but  rust.  They  are  becoming  rusty  in 
the  service  of  the  Lord,  and 
they  are  not  willing  to  labor  at 
home  as  they  did  abroad.  What  a  glor- 
ious feeling  we  have  had,  when  we  have 
gone  away  from  our  homes,  impelled  by 
the  spirit  of  truth,  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel among  the  children  of  men.  I  sup- 
pose that  every  missionary  that  re- 
sponds to  an  appointment,  goes  away 
from  his  family  and  friends  with 
a  determination  in  his  heart 
that  he  will  do  honor  to  his  call- 
ing. I  have  met  hundreds  of  mission- 
aries in  the  old  country,  sometimes 
boys  who  have  beep  indifferent  to  the 
responsibilities  of  the  Priesthood  at 
home;  but  I  do  not  now  recall  having 
ever  met  one  in  all  the  hundreds  with 
whom  I  have  been  brought  in  contact 
v/ho  reached  the  missionary  field  with 
a  feeling  of  indifference,  with  a  disposi- 
tion to  oppose  authority,  with  a  feeling 
in  his  heart  that  he  would  question  the 
counsels  of  the  men  who  presided  over 
him.  You  who  have  filled  missions 
know  that  you  go  into  the  world  with 
these  thoughts  uppermost  from  the  very 
moment  that  you  respond,  that  you  will 
be  obedient,  that  you  will  hearken  to 


counsel,  that  you  will  be  zealous  in  car- 
rying out  counsel,  and  that  you  will 
keep  yourself  clean  and  pure,  and 
tweet  before  the  world.  What  is  the 
result?  Men  return  who  have  never 
had  experience  before,  and  they  are 
filled  with  the  power  of  God,  filled  with 
the  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  it  is  this  testimony  and  this  vigor, 
and  this  life  that  I  feel  anxious  that  the 
brethren  should  preserve  within  them 
after  having  returned  home.  It  can  be 
preserved,  it  can  be  maintained 
through  their  entire  lives,  if  they  will 
only  return  with  a  determination  to 
hearken  to  counsel  and  be  obedient  to 
those  who  preside  in  the  Church  and  be 
diligent  in  the  discharge  of  the  duties 
that  rest  upon  them.  In  traveling  and 
visiting  among  the  people,  when  talk- 
ing to  the  Bishops  about  returned 
missionaries  with  whom  I  have  been  ac- 
quainted, asking  how  they  were  doing 
in  their  callings  at  home,  the  answer 
has  often  been  given,  "they  are  not  do- 
ing anything."  Brother  So  and  So 
"will  not  act  as  a  Teacher,  he  will  not 
act  in  the  Sunday  school,  he  will  not 
act  in  the  Improvement  associations. 
He  returned  and  bore  us  a  good  testi- 
mony, but  we  have  seen  but  little  of 
him  since  that  time." 

I  plead,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  with 
young  men.  Great  and  glorious  oppor- 
tunities are  before  them.  This  is  an 
age  of  opportunities  for  young  men. 
The  Priesthood,  the  Apostles,  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church,  are  conferring 
honois  upon  the  young  men  of  Israel, 
paths  are  opening  on  every  hand  in 
which  we  can  labor,  opportunities  are 
being  made  everywhere  wherein  we  can 
work  for  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord  and  for  the  salvation  of 
the  souls  of  men  and  women  here  at 
home.  When  we  are  abroad  we  some- 
times travel  ten  miles  to  attend  a  meet- 
ing, and  would  a  hundred  miles,  if 
need  be,  that  we  may  meet  with  some 
one  that  would  be  willing  to  listen  to 
the  testimony  we  have  concerning  the 
Gospel,  that  we  might  explain  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel.  And  how  our 
hearts  are  aglow,  and  we  are  filled  with 
the  Are  of  the  Holy  Ghost  when  men 
listen,  when  we  see  that  they  are  con- 
vinced of  the  truth.  What  a  dreadful 
thirg  it  is  after  being  abroad  and  be- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  filled  with  this  happiness,  that  we 
should  return  home  to  smoulder  away 
and  die,  become  indifferent  and  cold  to 
the  duties   that   rest  upon  us!    I  plead 
with  Bishops,    and  I  plead  with  the 
presidents  of  Quorums  and  with  the 
presidents  of    Stakes,    to  throw  their 
arms  around  returning  missionaries, 
young  men;  to  point  out  the  troubles 
that  are  in  their  paths,  the  temptations 
that  will  beset  them,  the  fearfulness  of 
turning  away  from  the  path  of  duty  and 
of  becoming  careless    and  neglectful 
concerning   the    things    of    God.  We 
ought  not  to  return  and  feel  that  we 
have  given  to  the  Lord  two  years  or 
more     of   our     time,   and  that  now 
we     will     be     justified     in  seeking 
after     the     things     of     the  world 
to    the   exclusion    of  the   things  per- 
taining to  our  duties.    But  we  should 
be    more  anxious,  if    anything,  when 
we  return  to  set  a  goodly  example  be- 
fore the  people,  that  when  the  young 
men  and    young    women,    who  have 
known  us  when  we  have  not  been  so 
careful  and  so  diligent, look  upon  us  in  a 
year  after  our  return — in  ten  years  after 
our  return — they  will  say,  "Surely  the 
power  of  God  came  to  that  man.  The 
testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  was  given 
him,  and  when  he  returned  and  bore 
record  that  he  knew  this  work  to  be 
true,  it  was  a  solemn  truth,  and  God 
had  given  him  that  assurance,  for  his 
whole  life  and  his  conduct  before  us, 
ever  since  he  has  returned,  has  testified 
all  the  time  that  he  had  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth  of  the  Gospel."  And  we  should 
not  have  to  bear  the  responsibility  of 
testifying  to  the  truth  before  the  peo- 
ple and  then    turning  away  from  the 
path  of  duty. 

God  bless  the  missionaries  at  home 
find  abroad  wherever  they  may  be; 
bless  those  who  have  returned  and  who 
are  returning,  that  they  may  be  filled 
with  the  missionary  spirit  at  home,  for 
there  is  need  of  the  missionary  spirit 
in  all  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion. 
There  is  need  at  home  for  men  who  are 
devoted  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 
who  feel  that  it  is  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance all  the  time.  It  is  a  glorious 
thought  that  we  are  given  to  the  Lord, 
that  we  are  given  to  the  accomplishment 
of  His  work,  and  that  we  have  the  cour- 
age and  determination  to  hearken  to 


the  counsel  of  the  Lord,  and  honor  the 
Lord  by  the  observance  of  His  laws 
upon  the  earth  and  by  sustaining  the 
authority  of  His  holy  Priesthood.  We 
cannot  sustain  the  Priesthood  by  the 
mere  lifting  of  our  hands.  The  man 
who  sustains  the  Priesthood  is  the  man 
who  responds  to  the  appointments  that 
are  given  him,  the  man  who  says  "yes" 
to  the  Bishop,  and  to  the  president  of 
the  Stake,  the  man  who  responds  in  his 
quorum.  The  man  who  is  always  work- 
^g  willingly  and  dutifully,  is  the  man 
who  sustains  the  authority  of  God. 
There  is  no  other  way  to  sustain  that 
authority. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  seek  after 
His  spirit  and  to  be  filled  with  His 
power,  that  we  may  magnify  our  call- 
ings and  accomplish  much  righteous- 
ness, is  my  prayer  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.KIMBALL. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  One  thing 
I  specially  like  about  our  conference'  is 
the  plain  talk  that  has  been  given  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  realize  that 
some  of  you  have  fairly  crawled  in  your 
seats  for  fear  the  brethren  would  say 
something.  It  is  a  spirit  that  is  creep- 
ing into  the  hearts  of  our  people.  My 
father  once  in  preaching  prophesied 
that  goods  would  be  as  cheap  here  as 
they  were  in  the  streets  of  New  York; 
and  after  the  spirit  subsided  a  little,  he 
turned  to  President  Young  and  said, 
"Well,  President  Young,  I  have  done  it 
now."  President  Young  said,  "Never 
mind,  Brother  Kimball,  let  it  go."  He 
didn't  believe  it  either.  But  it  came 
to  pass.  I  want  to  ask  you  Latter-day 
Saints  if.  when  men  are  inspired  of  God 
and  you  exercise  faith  for  them,  as  you 
have  done  in  this  conference,  they  are 
to  be  always  held  accountable  for  what 
they  say  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  It  is  bad  enough  to  be  held 
personally  responsible  when  a  man  is 
not  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit.  I 
have  been  fearful  that  some  of  us  have 
become  cowardly  in  our  hearts  in  advo- 
cating the  principles  of  the  doctrines  of 
Christ.  I  remember  in  laboring  among 
the  Elders  in  the  Southern  States,  the 
question  came  up,  shall  we  go  when 
they  tell  us  to  go?   Well,  I  said,  if  you 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


53 


do  you  will  all  be  home  in  three  weeks. 
You  ought  to  go  when  you  feel  im- 
pressed by  the  Spirit  to  go,  and  when 
you  are  not  you  are  to  hold  the  fort 
and  let  God  take  care  of  you.  That 
is  the  kind  of  doctrine  I  believe  in;  I 
don't  know  whether  I  live  up  to  it  or 
not.  I  have  a  little  boy  at  home.  I 
didn't  know  how  to  train  children,  and 
when  he  was  a  little  fellow  we  made 
him  give  up  to  every  little  child  that 
came  in  to  visit  us,  till  today 
he  hasn't  got  grit  enough  to 
take  his  own  part,  and  we  have  him 
come  home  crying  because  somebody 
has  whipped  him.  And  now  I  have  to 
go  to  work  and  train  that  boy  to  fight, 
if  he  ever  gets  on  in  this  world.  I  have 
another  little  boy  growing  up,  and  I 
tell  you  I  don't  bother  myself  about 
these  things.  I  believe  in  being  loyal 
and  true  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  believe  in 
doing  right.  And  I  believe  in  men  being 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  women,  too.  I  don't  know  that  I  can 
tell  you  how  I  feel  during  this  confer- 
ence, any  better  than  to  tell  you  how 
I  felt  whenil_was  down  to  the  Chica- 
maugua  Park,  when  they  were  mobil- 
izing soldiers  for  the  war.  They  mo- 
bilized forty  thousand  soldiers  at  that 
place,  and  one  day  I  saw  there  nine 
thousand  soldiers  under  dress  parade, 
and  I  heard  the  martial  music,  and  I 
saw  them  pass  under  the  great  flag  of 
the  United  States,  and  every  one  of 
them  doffed  his  hat  when  he  came  to 
the  flag.  My  blood  coursed  rapidly 
through  my  veins,  and  I  felt  as  if  I  was 
eight  or  ten  feet  tall,  and  that  I  would 
like  to  so  to  the  war  and  see  how  it 
felt.  I  don't  know  how  long  the  feel- 
ing would  have  lasted,  but  I  never  felt 
better  in  my  life.  I  never  felt 
more  inspired  with  that  kind  of  inspira- 
tion and  loyalty  to  the  United  States 
than  I  did  on  that  one  occasion.  It  has 
been  the  occasion  of  my  life,  and ,  I 
learned  that  I  was  patriotic,  that  I  was 
loyal,  that  the  blood  of  the  revolution- 
ary fathers  coursed  through  my  veins, 
and  I  was  mighty  glad  to  find  it  out 
I  felt  just  the  same  way  during  this 
conference,  and  I  wouldn't  be  afraid  of 
all  the  world,  all  the  devils  in  hell,  if  I 
could  always  have  the  same  soirit  of 


inspiration  that  has  actuated  me  during 
this  conference. 

It  is  getting  so  a  man  dares  not  to 
open  his  mouth  for  fear  he  will  say 
something,  for  fear  he  will  tread  on 
what  they  term  holy  ground.  I  think 
we  ousht  to  be  wise,  and  I  think  that 
during  the  times  that  are  coming  the 
Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  keep  their 
feet  warm  and  their  heads  cool. 

I  remember  a  time  not  long  ago,  during 
our  troublous  times,  a  very  nice,  promi- 
nent Gentile — he  was  very  much  aroused 
and  excited  about  matters — who  raised 
his  hand  in  indignation  (I  guess  he 
thought  I  would  run),  and  he  roared 
like  a  lion:  "Keep  your  hands  off  from 
the  State,  and  you  see  to  it  that  your 
authorities  do  the  same."  I  said  look 
here  and  I  wasn't  very  cool  either — 
I  don't  think  I  had  an  overload  of  the 
Spirit  myself.  I  said,  look  here,  my 
friend,  you  were  not  born  here  like  I 
was,  in  these  mountains.  I  was  brought 
up  in  the  mountains.  I  don't  know 
anything  else  but  liberty,  like  the  birds 
that  fly  in  the  air,  and  I  love  this 
country  because  my  fathers  and  my  no- 
ble loved  ones  are  buried  over  here  on 
the  hill,  over  sixty  of  them.  I  love  this 
country  because  I  have  been  with  my 
father  as  a  child  when  he  walked 
around  the  site  of  this  great  tabernacle 
before  it  was  built.  My  father's  oxen 
and  his  mules  and  his  wagons  hauled 
rock  for  that  temple  when  I  was  a 
child.  My  father  and  my  mother,  whom 
I  loved  and  venerated,  came  to  this 
country  as  pioneers.  I  can't  tell  you 
about  our  temples,  about  our  worship, 
about  our  marriages,  about  the  Holy 
Ghost,  about  the  Priesthood— I  can't 
tell  you,  no  man  can  tell  you,  unless 
you  have  the  Spirit  of  God;  but  I  want 
to  tell  you  now,  I  shall  not  be  cowardly 
and  stop  my  tongue,  but  you  must  keep 
your  hands  off  the  Church,  and  you 
must  respect  the  men  that  I  honor,  or 
you  and  I  will  no  longer  be  friends.  A 
man  is  a  cowardly  craven  that  will  sit 
by  for  fear  of  trouble  and  allow  men  to 
be-little  and  abuse  him  and  call  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  everything 
under  heaven.  I  don't  believe  in  war.  I 
believe  in  loving  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  But  I  tell  you  when 
you    respect    the    authorities  your- 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


self,  other  people  will  respect 
them,  and  the  world  widl.  The 
Gentile  world  and  the  people  of 
this  city  and  State  would  have  respected 
the  authorities  more  than  they  do  had 
our  own  people  set  the  example.  That 
is  what  I  want  to  tell  you,  and  I  have 
told  you,  and  I  am  not  going  to  take 
it  back  either. '  I  am  not  going  to  make 
any  apologies  because  I  have  made  that 
statement.  It  is  true,  just  as  true  as  the 
Lord  lives.  If  you  honor  your  wife  and 
speak  well  of  her,  other  people  will  do 
so.  If  you  do  not  honor  your  children 
and  you  have  a  hired  girl  in  the  house 
and  you  do  not  treat  them  kindly,  the 
girl  herself  will  treat  your  own  child- 
ren unkindly. 

Now  I  feel  that  we  ought  to  honor 
God.  "We  ought  to  be  loyal  to  our  coun- 
try, and  I  believe  that  honest  men 
ought  to  rule  this  nation,  that  honest 
and  good  men  ought  to  rule  this  coun- 
try. It  is  a  mighty  poor  time  for  us  now 
to  sit  down  and  feel  bad  about  it,  if  any 
mistakes  are  made.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  while  I  am  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  I  have  my  franchise,  and  my  cit- 
izenship, and  I  have  my  vote,  and  I 
have  a  right  to  cast  it.  And  if  every 
single  man  and  woman  that  is  entitled 
to  their  franchise,  instead  of  going  and 
howling  after  the  trouble  is  over,  would 
shake  themselves  and  realize  that  they 
are  members  of  this  great  nation  and 
great  State,  and  go  to  their  primaries 
and  cast  their  ballot,  I  tell  you  mighty 
few  dishonest  men  would  find  their  way 
into  our  State  and  into  the  offices.  But 
it  is  your  fault,  because  we  do  not 
do  our  duty  as  American  citizens.  I 
claim  that  every  man  and  every  woman 
in  this  nation  that  has  the  franchise — 
that  own  property,  that  pays  taxes — 
has  a  right  to  go  to  the  primaries  and 
see  to  it  that  honest  men  go  into  the 
convention,  and  then  you  leave  the 
matter  in  their  hands  and  let  them  do 
the  rest,  and  hold  them  responsible. 

Now  I  pray  God  to  bless  you.  I  feel 
to  be  loyal,  I  feel  to  be  true  to  the  cause 
of  Christ,  and  I  want  to  be  saved  in 
the  kingdom  of  God;  and  I  want  to  go 
where  my  father  went  and  where  my 
mother  went.  I  want  to  be  with  this 
people.    I  want  to  see  all  the  world 


saved,  and  I  want  to  see  the  Gospel 
preached  to  every  tongue  and  people  as 
a  witness,  anl  I  will  be  mighty  glad 
when  the  end  comes.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you.  Amen. 

Sister  May  Young  sang  a  solo. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

I  desire,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
the  words  that  I  shall  speak  may  be 
dictated  by\the  Holy  Spirit.  I  have  re- 
joiced exceedingly  in  this  conference  in 
the  words  that  have  been  spoken  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  feel  that  the 
Lord  has  greatly  favored  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  giving  them  the  instruc- 
tions that  He  has  given  through  the 
mouths  of  His  servants;  and  I  pray 
that  we  may  be  faithful  and  true  in 
carrying  out  these  instructions  that  will 
be  for  our  good  and  blessing. 

1  desire  to  raise  my  voice  in  warning 
to  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  young 
men  and  young  women,  who  come  to 
this  city  to  attend  school  or  to  find  work. 
I  desire  to  caution  them  to  see  that 
they  are  under  proper  influences,  and 
know  something  of  the  families  that 
they  are  living  with,  something  of  their 
environments,  for  we  are  all  influenced 
to  a  great  degree  by  our  surroundings. 
It  is  a  -reat  deal  better  or  easier  for 
us  to  do  right  and  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  when  we  are  under 
good  influences;  and  it  is  a  great  deal 
easier  to  do  wrong:  when  we  are  under 
conditions  of  wrongdoing,  or  where  oth- 
ers set  the  examples.  And  especially 
are  the  youth,  the  young  men  and 
maidens  of  Zion,  or  of  any  community 
or  of  any  people,  inclined  to  be  influ- 
enced by  conditions  which  surround 
them.  I  feel  that  this  is  a  very  im- 
portant matter.  There  are  things  that 
are  of  more  importance  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints'  parents  than  the  mere  earn- 
in*g  of  dollars  and  cents  by  their  sons 
and  their  daughters;  and  the  question 
ought  not  to  be,  when  their  sons  and 
daughters  come  to  this  city,  or  to  any 
other  city,  to  obtain  employment,  "How 
much  money  can  they  get?"  The  con- 
sideration ought  to  be,  in  part  at  any 
rate,  what  are  the  conditions 
that  will  surround  them  in  this  po- 
sition or  in  this  employment? 
I    feel    that    great    evil    has  come 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


55 


through  a  lack  of  observance  of 
this  counsel,  and  through  parents 
sending  their  sons  or  their  daughters, 
or  permitting  them  to  go,  to  the  larger 
cities  to  obtain  employment  in  hotels 
and  in  families  that  are  not  good,  or 
in  other  places  where  they  have  not 
been  under  proper  restraint.  It  is  a 
very  good  thing  for  us  all  to  be  placed 
under  proper  restraint.  It  is  a  good 
thing  for  us  to  have  good  influences 
thrown  around  us.  Is  it  possible  that 
fathers  and  mothers  can,  in  view  of 
these  conditions  that  will  surround 
their  daughters,  permit  them  to  come 
into  these  cities,  leaving  their  homes 
and  natural  guardians  to  obtain  em- 
ployment without  knowing  of  their 
surroundings  and  knowing  that  these 
shall  be  good?  There  are  very  many 
Latter-day  Saints  that  cannot  get  help, 
either  girls  or  young  men.  They  can- 
not get  the  assistance  they  need  on 
their  farms  and  in  their  families  be- 
cause they  do  not  live  handy  enough 
to  Main  street,  or  because  other  con- 
ditions are  not  satisfactory  to  those 
who  are  seeking  employment.  I  feel 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint  to  know  in  what  kind  of  a  fami- 
ly their  sons  or  daughters  are  living, 
where  they  are  found  at  night,  and 
what  conditions  and  influences  they  are 
under.  It  would  be  a  great  surprise 
to  many  of  the  fathers  and  mothers, 
perhaps,  if  they  were  to  walk  down  our 
Main  street  here  some  Saturday  night 
about  11  o'clock  and  find,  to  their 
astonishment,  that  there  were  more 
young  men  and  young  women  upon  the 
street  at  that  hour  than  can  be  found 
at  any  time  of  the  day  during  any  of 
the  week  days.  Now,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  many  of  you  who  have  allowed 
your  sons  and  daughters  to  come  to 
this  city  to  go  to  school  or  to  obtain 
employment  and  think  they  are  all 
right,  that  they  are  keeping  proper 
company,  you  would  be  surprised,  per- 
haps, if  you  personally  would  take  a 
stroll  down  Main  street  and  find  some 
of  your  sons  and  daughters  upon  that 
street  in  an  unseemly  hour  of  the  night, 
and  not  in  proper  company  either. 
Young  people  who  frequent  the 
streets  of  this  city,  or  any  other 
city,  at  a  late  hour,  with  no 
other  view  than  simply  to  walk  up  and 


down  to  be  seen  or  to  see,  if  they  are 
not  very  careful,  will  lose  their  stand- 
ing in  the  Church  of  Christ,  they  will 
break  away  from  the  restraint  of  the 
parental  home,  and  they  will  lose  their 
virtue  that  is  ten  thousand  times  more 
dear  to  them  than  all  the  money  they 
will  ever  be  able  to  earn  in  their  life. 

This  is  something  that  parents  ought 
to  give  their  attention  to,  for  we  realize 
that  the  devil  is  not  opposed  to  im- 
morality. He  is  not  even  opposed  to 
prostitution.  The  sanctimonious  of  the 
world  are  not  opposed  to  these  things. 
We  have  never  heard  in  all  our  lifetime 
the  great  cries  raised  against  prostitu- 
tion and  such  like  vices  practiced  in  the 
world  that  we  have  heard  against 
patriarchal  marriage.  It  was  because 
this  principle  is  of  God;  but  the  works 
of  the  devil  are  not  found  fault  with 
by  the  agencies  of  the  devil.  There  are 
very  many  in  the  world  that  are  op- 
posed to  conditions  of  restraint  placed 
upon  young  people,  but  there  is  a  large 
majority  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
God  upon  the  earth  that  consider  laxity 
in  these  things  to  be  of  a  very  grave 
character,  because  the  devil  is  pleased 
with  such  as  yield  to  such  things.  We 
are  told  that  we  are  the  servants  of 
whosoever  we  list  to  obey.  If  we  list 
to  obey  the  teachings  of  God  and  His 
counsels,  we  are  the  servants  or  the 
handmaidens  of  God.  If  we  list  to  obey 
satan,  we  are  satan's  servants.  I  feel 
that  the  conditions  that  are  arising  in 
some  quarters  in  this  city  and  in  other 
cities,  are  alarming,  and  fathers  and 
mothers  ought  to  give  their  attention 
to  these  things.  They  ought  to  try 
to  keep  their  sons  and  daughters  under  * 
a  proper  influence  and  from  improper 
associates.  You  may  feel  that  they  are 
all  right,  that  you  have  trusted  them, 
and  probably  many  of  them  can  be 
trusted;  but  it  is  not  a  good  thing  to 
expose  them  to  conditions  that  bring 
them  into  temptation  and  danger,  that 
are  against  morality,  virtue,  honesty 
and  truth. 

I  believe  that  sorrow  will  be  brought 
to  many  of  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  if  they  do  not  give  these  matters 
proper  attention.  Your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters had  a  thousand  times  better  stay 
at  home,  if  their  clothes  are  not  quite 
so  good,  than  go  away  from  home  to 
be  exposed  to  the  conditions  which  are 


56 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


found  in  the  cities,  and  wreck  their  lives 
and  make  themselves  miserable  and 
useless  in  the  service  of  their  God.  I 
feel  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  ought 
to  see  to  it  that  their  sons  and  daugh- 
ters find  employment  and  lodgings  in 
the  Latter-day  Saints'  homes.  And  this 
is  not  boycotting  either,  for  the  protest- 
ants  and  the  Catholics  do  it,  and  no 
fault  is  found  with  them.  And  we  are 
just  as  free  as  any  other  people  to  ad- 
vise people  what  to  do,  and  I  do  advise 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  see  to  it  that, 
their  sons  and  daughters  find  employ- 
ment or  lodgings  in  the  homes  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  when  they  come  to  the 
city  to  spend  the  winter  or  look  for 
work. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  and  give  us 
the  spirit  of  this  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged,  and  help  us  to  do  right  and 
live  faithfully  before  Him,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Lucy  Grant  and  the  choir  sang 
"Beautiful  City." 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

Dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would 
have  preferred  to  have  heard  from 
Elder  Grant  the  remainder  of  this 
meeting,  but  he  insists  that  I  shall  oc- 
cupy a  portion  of  the  time,  and  I  hum- 
bly pray  that  our  heavenly  Father  will 
bless  me  with  the  light  of  His  holy 
Spirit  that  I  may  have  something  to  say 
to  you  that  shall  be  appropriate  to  the 
occasion. 

If  there  is  one  thing  above  another 
that  impresses  itself  upon  my  mind  at 
the  present  moment,  it  is  the  obligation 
that  is  placed  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  all  the 
world.  A  short  time  ago  I  was  in  Can- 
ada. While  the  weather  looked  pleas- 
ant, as  we  were  passing  along  over  the 
prairie  a  thunder  shower  came  up  be- 
fore we  reached  the  village  of  Cards- 
ton.  I  believe  it  was  a  little  more  se- 
vere than  anything  I  ever  saw  or  heard. 
During  the  progress  of  the  storm  it 
killed  eight  or  ten  head  of  cattle  and  a 
similar  number  of  horses,  knocked 
senseless  Brother  Jenson  and  all  hie 
family,  set  his  house  on  fire,  killed  his 
dogs,  knocked  to  pieces  a  few  telegraph 
poles  and  scared  everybody  pretty  near 
to  death.  I  was  out  in  the  buggy,  and 
I  know  what  my  feelings  were.  How 


easy,  I  thought,  it  would  be  for  one  of 
those  bolts  of  lightning  to  strike  us. 
We  could  see  the  electricity  running 
along  on  the  barbed  wire  as  we  passed 
by  a  ranch,  and  a  great  many  places  the 
lightning  struck. 

Now,  I  say  to  you  young  men  who  are 
under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  lightning 
is  going  to  strike  all  through  this  coun- 
try. The  next  day  when  we  were  in  a 
public  meeting,  getting  up  a  subscrip- 
tion to  furnish  a  few  farmers  with  teams 
— they  having  lost  theirs  during  the 
storm — I  asked  the  people  if  they  would 
not  subscribe  and  give  a  few  cattle  and 
horses;  sufficient  were  obtained  in  a 
few  moments,  and  arrangements  were 
made  to  furnish  teams  to  those  who 
had  lost  theirs.  Lightning  is 
going  to  strike  all  over  this  country  in 
a  short  time. 

In  regard  to  preaching  this  Gospel, 
I  will  tell  you  how  I  look  at  it.  The 
Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
"Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  to  every 
nation."  He  had  renewed  unto  him 
the  same  commission  that  was  given 
unto  the  ancient  Apostles.  How  far 
have  we  obeyed  this  commandment? 
We  have  spent  most  of  our  time  in 
Scandinavia  and  in  the  British  isles, 
and  more  recently  in  the  United  States. 
There  are  hundreds  of  millions  of  peo- 
ple that  have  never  heard  the  Gospel. 
How  long  will  it  be  before  the  Lord 
comes?  I  don't  believe  He  will  ever 
come  until  the  sound  of  this  Gospel 
goes  into  all  the  world,  to  every  crea- 
ture. How  long  will  He  have  to 
postpone  His  coming  if  we  do  not  make 
faster  progress  than  we  are  making 
at  the  present  time? 

I  feel  to  continue  in  the  strain  of 
Elder  McMurrin's  remarks  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  speak  of  the  Elders  of 
Israel  here  at  home.  I  would  say  to 
you,  Elders,  do  not  be  surprised  if  you 
are  called  again.  President  Snow  an- 
nounced to  the  Twelve  the  other  day 
that  he  expected  them  to  open  up  the 
doors  of  the  Gospel  unto  other  nations 
of  the  earth  where  it  had  not  before 
been.  What  does  that  mean?  It 
means  that  where  only  one  of  the 
Twelve  goes  there  will  hundreds — 
possibly  thousands — of  Elders  go.soon- 
er  or  later.     While  the  brethren  were 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


57 


going  over  the  various  nations  where 
the  Gospel  had  not  been  preached,  they 
spoke  of  Russia,  of  Prussia  and  of 
Hungary,  and  they  spoke  also  of  Per- 
sia and  of  Austria  and  of  those  na- 
tions that  are  in  central  Europe.  Be- 
sides, we  have  all  South  America, 
which  is  being  settled  up  by  the  white 
races  to  a  very  great  extent.  "We  have 
all  of  Africa.  The  Gospel  must  go  to 
Africa  just  as  well  as  to 
the  white  people  wherever  they 
are.  We  have  all  of  the 
numerous  nations  of  India  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to.  And  I  may  say  that  in 
the  southern  part  of  Africa  today  there 
are  many  millions  of  intelligent  people 
to  whom  the  Gospel  must  be  preached. 
And  some  of  the  best  families  of  theLat- 
ter-day  Saints  were  gathered  from 
South  Africa  in  early  days.  It  is  true 
we  are  preaching  a  little  in  Australia 
and  in  New  Zealand,  and  upon  the  Pa- 
cific Islands,  and  have  made  consider- 
able progress  in  those  places,  but  we 
have  only  made  a  start.  That  you  may 
comprehend  the  importance  of  doing 
our  duty  in  this  respect,  let  me  show 
you  the  value  that  our  Lord  and  Savior 
placed  upon  the  preaching  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  On  one  occasion  there 
were  certain  young  men  who  had  been 
faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments. 
I  refer  to  several  of  His  Apostles.  And 
they  came  to  Him  and  they  wanted  to 
get  their  reward,  and  He  said  to  Peter, 
the  Apostle:  "Peter,  what  desirest  thou 
of  me?"  And  Peter  said:  "I  would  that 
I  might  return  speedily  with  Thee  into 
Thy  Father's  kingdom."  And  He  asked 
John,  "What  desirest  thou?"  John  an- 
swered, "I  would  that  I  might  tarry 
upon  the  earth  to  bring  souls  unto  Thee 
until  Thou  comest  again  in  Thy  glory." 
Then  Jesus  turned  again  to  Peter  and 
said,  "Blessed  art  thou  Peter,  for  thou 
hast  desired  a  good  thing,  and  it  shall 
be  given  unto  thee  even  in  accordance 
with  thy  desire."  But,  turning  unto 
John  He  said,  "More  blessed  is  my  ser- 
vant. John,  because  he  desires  to  tarry 
upon  the  earth  to  bring  souls  unto  me, 
and  to  do  a  greater  work  than  he  has 
yet  done,  and  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I 
will  make  him  a  flaming  sword  of  fire 
and  a  ministering  angel  unto  all  those 
who  shall  be  heirs  of  salvation  to  them 
that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  and  to  you 


(referring  to  Peter)  and  your  brother 
James,  will  I  give  the  keys  to  minister 
unto  him,"  and  He  committed  this  min- 
istry unto  these  three  men.  Here  is  a 
good  example,  showing  that  the  preach- 
ing of  the  everlasting  Gospel  was  great- 
er than  to  go  into  the  kingdom  of  our 
God  and  to  dwell  with  Him 
with  the  Father.  Why?  Is 
there  any  reason  given  for 
this?  Yes,  we  have  a  reason  here 
in  a  revelation  given  to  Oliver  Cowdery 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
The  Lord  says:  "I  would  have  you  re- 
member how  great  is  the  value  of 
souls  in  the  sight  of  God."  For  he 
says  God  so  loved  the  world  that  He 
gave  His  only  begotten  Son  that  who- 
soever believeth  on  Him  should  not 
perish  but  have  everlasting  life.  And 
He  says,  "If  it  so  be  that  you  labor 
all  your  days  preaching  repentance  un- 
to this  people  and  bring  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  my  Father's  kingdom,  how 
great  will  be  your  joy  with  that  one 
soul  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father;  and 
if  your  joy  shall  be  great  with  one  soul, 
how  great  shall  it  be  if  you  bring 
many!"  Here  is  shown  the  value  our 
Father  and  our  God  places  upon  the 
souls  of  of  the  children  of  men.  Out- 
side of  proving  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  are  at  home,  and  choosing 
men  of  wisdom  to  guide  in  the  affairs 
of  His  kingdom,  there  is  that  great  and 
mighty  work  to  preach  the  everlasting 
Gospel  to  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues 
and  people;  and  you  are  promised  your 
reward.  The  Apostle  Paul  has  said: 
"Eye  hath  not  seen  nor  ear  heard,  nor 
hath  it  entered  into  the  heart  of  man, 
the  things  which  God  hath  in  store  for 
them  that  love  Him  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments." 

We  have  been  told  by  Brother  Kim- 
ball that  he  saw  the  soldiers  of  the 
United  States  marching  forth  to  war 
against  other  nations.  It  filled  him 
with  a  desire  to  go  himself  in  the 
armies  of  his  country.  I  want  to  say 
to  the  Elders,  there  is  a  music  that  is 
prepared  for  the  Elders  of  Israel  in 
preaching  the  everlasting  Gospel;  yea, 
there  is  music  which  is  prepared  of 
God.  He  says:  "I  will  send  my  holy 
angels  before  your  face  to  prepare  your 
way  before  you.  They  will  be  upon 
your  right  and  upon  your  left  hand  to 


58 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


bear  you  up,  and  I  will  go  before  your 
face.  The  music  of  the  angels  is  sung 
unto  those  who  are  in  the  ministry  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  heard  Elder  Golden  Kimball  say 
in  the  city  of  Ephraim,  Sanpete  coun- 
ty, that  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  worrying  about  their  sons 
for  fear  they  will  never  return  to  the 
land  of  Zion.  I  would  rather  have 
every  son  that  I  have  lay  down  his  life 
in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
abroad,  if  it  was  necessary,  than  in  any 
other  field  of  labor  that  I  can  possibly 
think  of,  especially  if  they  were  labor- 
ing under  the  direction  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church.  But  when  a  man 
is  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  he  is  safer 
than  in  any  other  service.  You  may 
imagine  you  are  safer  here  at  home,  at- 
tending to  your  daily  avocations,  but 
when  you  are  in  the  service  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  all  is  well  with  you. 

Now,  young  men,  prepare  yourselves 
to  preach  the  Gospel  of  repentance  unto 
the  children  of  men,  for  the  coming  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  near  at  hand, 
and  it  will  require  renewed  diligence  on 
our  part  to  go  forth  and  fulfill  our  mis- 
sions and  be  in  readiness  for  the  com- 
ing of  our  Savior.  He  said  he  would 
cut  short  His  work  in  righteousness.  It 
is  said  that  He  will  come  as  a  refiner's 
fire  and  as  fuller's  soap,  to  purify  the 
sons  of  Levi.  We  have  been  reminded 
here  of  the  judgments  and  the  miseries 
that  are  coming  upon  the  nations.  It 
is  true  as  God  lives.  He  says:  "I  will 
burn  them,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  by 
the  brightness  of  my  coming,  and  I 
will  leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch; 
yea,  all  those  that  are  proud  and  they 
that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble,  for 
the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn  them 
up."  Take  all  those  that  are  proud  and 
all  those  that  do  wickedly  from  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  there  will  be 
but  few  men  left,  and  the  words  of 
Jesus  Christ  will  be  fulfilled  in  his 
prophecy  in  the  24th  chapter  of 
Matthew,  wherein  he  says,  "as  in  the 
days  of  Noah  so  shall  it  be  in  the  days 
of  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man."  How 
many  men  and  women  were  there  that 
would  listen  to  the  Prophet  Noah? 
There  were  but  few,  and  I  say  that  to- 
day, compared  with  the  inhabitants 
that  live,  but  few  men  will  receive  the 


truth;  therefore,  be  humble  and  put 
away  all  pride,  all  vanity  and  nonsense 
of  every  kind,  serve  the  Lord,  and  de- 
vote yourselves  to  His  service. 

I  testify  to  this  congregation,  that 
these  men  who  have  gone  forth  and  ful- 
filled faithful  missions,  have  not  feared 
the  world  nor  the  things  of  the  world, 
but  the  Lord  has  led  them  to  the  hon- 
est in  heart,  and  the  honest  in  heart 
have  received  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  the  gifts  and  blessings  have 
been  poured  out  upon  them  as  a  stream 
of  living  fire,  for  truly  the  promise  was 
made,  as  said  John  the  Baptist,  "Be- 
hold I  baptize  you  with  water,  but 
there  is  one  coming  after  me  who  will 
baptize  you  with  fire  and  the  Holy 
Ghost.  I  have  seen  when  your  sons, 
the  Elders  of  Israel,  have  preached  the 
Gospel,  promising  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
the  people  if  they  would  repent  of  their 
sins  and  laid  their  hands  upon  their 
heads;  I  have  seen  people  stand  up  and 
prophesy  and  testify  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son;  I  have 
heard  them  speak  in  tongues, and  others 
have  interpreted,  not  by  the  power  of 
man  tut  by  the  power  of  God,  and  the 
signs  have  followed  the  believers.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  God.  I  know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  has 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  he  is 
a  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of  this 
Church  to  guide  us  on  to  salvation;  and 
I  pray  that  God  will  bless  him  and 
lengthen  out  his  years  upon  the  earth, 
that  he  may  live  to  see  Zion  redeemed 
from  its  bondage,  and  that  we  may  be 
blessed  and  prospered  as  a  people.  Jo- 
seph Smith  gave  a  definition  in  regard 
to  those  who  understood  the  Spirit  of 
God.  He  said:  Show  me  a  man  or  a 
woman  who  has  the  Spirit  of  God 
with  him  or  her,  and  I  will  show 
you  a  man  or  woman  whose  greatest 
desire  is  to  build  up  the  Church  of  God 
upon  the  earth.  Is  this  out  desire,  my 
brethren  and  sisters?  I  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  may  rest  upon  this  con- 
gregation, and  that  Elder  Grant  may 
be  filled  with  the  fire  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  He  may  speak 
as  a  man  having  authority  and  not 
as  the  Scribes  and  the  Pharisees, 
that  he  may  deliver  the  word  of  God 
unto  us  here  this  afternoon,  and  I  pray 
that  it  may  sink  into  good  and  honest 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


59 


"hearts  and  bring  forth  fruit  to  the  hon- 
or and  glory  of  God.  May  God  bless  all 
under  the  sound  of  my  voice.  And  if 
there  are  any  strangers  here,  I  invite 
them  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  and 
I  will  promise  them  that  they  shall 
know  that  God  lives,  and  that  He  has 
sent  us,  His  people,  to  gather  His  Israel 
from  the  four  Quarters  of  the  earth, 
and  that  the  little  stone  that  Daniel 
saw  is  rolling  forth.  Daniel  said  he  saw 
a  stone  that  was  cut  out  of  the  moun- 
tain without  hands,  and  it  rolled  forth 
and  became  a  great  mountain  and  filled 
the  whole  earth.  He  spoke  of  those 
who  would  oppose  the  progress  of  this 
rock,  that  they  should  be  as  the  chaff 
of  the  summer's  threshing  floor,  and 
there  should  be  no  place  found  for 
them. 

Blessed  are  the  honest  in  heart. 
Rlessed  are  they  whose  hearts  are  to 
build  up  the  kingdom  of  God.  My 
testimony  is,  and  it  will  always  be,  if 
you  will  sustain  the  authorities  of  this 
Church,  God  will  bless  you.  If  you  do 
your  duty,  God  will  bless  you  and  pros- 
per you  in  the  land  of  Zion.  If  you 
do  not  do  your  duty,  the  Spirit  of  God 
will  not  be  with  you,  and  you  will  not 
be  prospered.  I  say  to  the  ungodly,  Do 
not  oppose  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is 
not  the  work  of  Joseph  Smith.  It  is  not 
the  work  of  Lorenzo  Snow.  It  is  the 
work  of  God,  the  Heavenly  Father.  He 
can  raise  ud  a  nation;  he  can  cast  it 
down.  He  can  raise  ud  an  individual, 
or  he  can  cast  him  aside.  I  say  unto 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  words 
of  Jesus  will  be  applied  unto  them  in 
their  fulfillment,  Whosoever  shall  fall 
upon  this  stone  shall  be  broken,  but 
whomsoever  this  stone  shall  fall 
upon  shall  be  ground  to  powder.  Show 
me  a  man  that  has  ever  lifted  up  his 
hand  against  the  Church  of  God  that 
today  is  prospered  in  the  earth.  May 
God  bless  us  that  we  may  be  as  our 
fathers,  for  the  building  up  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  for  righteousness 
and  virtue  and  purity  and  for  the 
spread  of  the  principles  of  righteousness 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  which  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 
I  have  rejoiced    exceedingly    in  the 
conference   we  have   had  the  privilege 


of  attending.  I  have  been  much  pleased 
with  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
in  this  overflow  meeting  this  afternoon; 
and  trust  that  the  remainder  of  the 
time  I  may  occupy,  I  may  do  so 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

I  love  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  love  to  minister  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  have  had  ex- 
quisite joy  in  this  labor,  and  particular- 
ly have  I  rejoiced  that  upon  some  oc- 
casions I  have  been  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  God  in  touching  the  hearts 
of  those  who  have  grown  careless  and 
negligent  in  their  duties,  and  they  have 
seen  fit  to  reform  their  ways  and  to  be 
more  diligent  in  His  service  than  they 
have  ever  been.  It  requires  a  con- 
stant warfare  on  the  part  of  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  for  him  to  make  a  suc- 
cess. We  cannot  measure  the  work  of 
God  by  the  things  of  this  world.  God 
tells  us  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
there  is  no  gift  greater  than  the  gift 
of  salvation.  We  as  Latter-day  Saints 
have  all  started  out  for  the  gift  of  sal- 
vation, and  we  should  so  order  our  lives 
that  when  we  have  finished  our  work 
we  shall  be  worthy  to  go  back  into  the 
presence  of  our  Father,  and  be  worthy 
not  only  to  receive  exaltation  our- 
selves, but  also  to  receive  our  wives 
and  our  children  that  have  been  sealed 
unto  us  that  we  shall  possess  them. 
No  amount  of  testimony,  no  amount  of 
knowledge,  even  knowledge  that  this  is 
God's  work,  will  ever  save  a  man  so 
that  he  will  have  his  wives  and  his 
children,  but  the  keeping  of  the  com- 
mandments of  God  will  entitle  him  to 
that  blessing.  That  is  the  only  way 
that  they  can  possess  them  in  the  next 
world,  for  those  they  have  will  be 
taken  away,  unless  they  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God. 

I  wish  to  call  your  attention  to  the. 
many  failures  that  have  been  made  be- 
cause of  failure  to  keep  the  command- 
ments. The  Lord  told  Oliver  Cowdery 
and  David  Whitmer  that  if  they  lab- 
ored all  their  lives  in  brin^ins;  but  one 
soul  to  the  knowledge  of  God  they 
should  have  great  joy.  Notwithstanding 
this  revelation,  these  men  did  not  re- 
main faithful,  notwithstanding  these 
men  saw  the  an^el  of  God;  notwith- 
standing they  gave  their  testimony  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  which  they  de- 


60 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


clare  that  they  knew  that  the  plates 
had  been  translated  by  the  gift  and  pow- 
er of  God,  for  "His  voice  hath  declared  it 
unto  us;  wherefore  we  know  of  a  surety 
that  the  work  is  true."  And  again  they 
testify  that  the  angel  came  down  and 
they  beheld  and  saw  the  plates  and  the 
engravings  thereon,  and  they  say:  "It 
is  marvelous  in  our  eyes,  nevertheless 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  commanded  us 
that    we    should  bear    record  Of  it; 
wherefore,    to  be    obedient    unto  the 
commandments  of  God,  we  bear  testi- 
mony of  these  things.    And  we  know 
that  if  we  are  faithful  in  Christ  we 
shall  rid  our  garments  of  the  blood  of 
all  men,  and  be  found  spotless  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  Christ,  and  shall 
dwell  with  Him  eternally  in  the  heav- 
ens." Notwithstanding    all    this,  they 
failed  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  and  fell  by  the    wayside.  Take 
Sydney  Rigdon,  who  was  with  Joseph 
Smith  when  he  received  that  great  vis- 
ion   and  revelation  wherein  it  is  de- 
clared that  they  saw  Jesus  Christ  who 
came  into  the  world  to  bear  the  sins  of 
the    world;    and    the  testimony  which 
they     bore    of    Jesus     was:  "After 
the        many        testimonies  which 
have  been  given  of  him,  this  is  the  tes- 
timony, last  of  all,  which  we  zive  of 
Him,  that  He  lives,  for  we  saw  Him, 
even  on  the  right  hand  of  God,  and  we 
heard  the  voice  bearing  record  that 
He  is  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father." 
And     they    testify    that    they  saw 
the     angels     and     those   that  were 
sanctified  singing  praises  to  God.  I  say, 
notwithstanding  they  saw.  the  Savior 
and  bore  His  testimony,  this  man  Sid- 
ney Rigdon,  fell  by  the  wayside.    I  say 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  no  amount  of 
knowledge,  no  amount  of  testimony,  no 
amount  of  sealing  in  the  temples  of  God 
to  our  wives  and  children  will  save  us; 
but  the  keeping  of  the  commandments 
of  God,  being  honest  in    our  dealings 
with  God  and  with  out  fellow  men,  pay- 
ing our  tithing,  obeying  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  doing  our  duty  as  Latter- 
day  Saints — these  are  the  things,  and 
the  only  things  that  will  save  us. 

What  does  the  Lord  say?  "Although 
a  man  may  have  many  revelations,  and 
have  power  to  do  many  mighty  works, 
yet  if  he  boasts  in  his  own  strength  and 
sets  at  nought  the  counsels  of  God  and 


follows  after  the  dictates  of  his  own  will 
and  carnal  desires,  he  must  fail  and  in- 
cur the  vengeance  of  a  just  God  upon 
him."  It  is  easy  for  us  to  fail  to  be 
honest  with  Almighty  God  in  the  pay- 
ment of  our  tithes  and  offerings,  and  to 
follow  the  dictates  of  our  own  wills. 
The  devil  is  ready  to  blind  our  eyes  with 
the  things  of  this  world,  and  he  would 
gladly  rob  us  of  eternal  life,  the  great- 
est of  all  gifts.  But  it  is  not  given  to 
the  devil,  and  no  power  will  ever  be 
given  to  him  to  overthrow  any  Latter- 
day  Saint  that  is  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God.  There  is  no  power  given 
to  the  adversary  of  men's  souls  to  de- 
stroy us  if  we  are  doing  our  duty.  If 
we  are  not  absolutely  honest  with  God, 
then  we  let  the  bars  down,  then  we 
have  destroyed  part  of  the  fortifications 
by  which  we  are  protected,  and  the  de- 
vil may  come  in.  But  no  man  has  ever 
lost  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  no  man 
has  ever  turned  to  the  right  or  to  the 
left,  who  had  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  who  was  attending  to  his  duties, 
who  was  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
who  was  paying  his  tithing,  who  was 
responding  to  the  calls  and  duties  of  his 
office  and  calling  in  the  Church. 

May  God  bless  us!  May  the  teachings 
of  this  conference  abide  with  us,  and 
may  God  help  all  of  us  to  be  true  to 
Him,  is  my  prayer  and  desire.  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Karl  G.  Maeser. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 
At  the  Tabernacle,  2  p.  m.— The  choir 
and  congregation  sang: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days, 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 
To  lighten  our  minds  wi'J.  its  rays. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Charles  W.  Penrose. 
The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Unfold, 
ye  portals." 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

The  redemption  of  Zion  Many  Saints  now  living- 
will  go  to  Jackson  County — Testimony  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God  and  an 
honora'ile  aid  iro  al  man-  A  reformation  in 
progress — Consecration  will  be  established. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  will  read  a  few 
verses  embraced  in  the  sixty-third  sec- 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


61 


tion  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants: 

"And  now,  behold,  this  is  the  will  of 
the  Lord  your  God  concerning  His 
Saints,  that  they  should  assemble  them- 
selves together  unto  the  land  of  Zion, 
not  in  haste,  lest  there  should  be  con- 
fusion, which  bringeth  pestilence. 

"Behold,  the  land  of  Zion,  I,  the  Lord, 
holdeth  it  in  mine  own  hand; 

"Nevertheless,  I,  the  Lord,  rendereth 
unto  Caesar  the  things  which  are 
Caesar's; 

"Wherefore,  I,  the  Lord,  willeth  that 
you  should  purchase  the  lands  that  you 
may  have  advantage  of  the  world,  that 
you  may  have  claim  on  the  world,  that 
they  may  not  be  stirred  up  unto  anger; 

"For  Satan  putteth  it  into  their  hearts 
to  anger  against  you,  and  to  the  shed- 
ding of  blood; 

"Wherefore,  the  land  of  Zion  shall  not 
be  obtained  but  by  purchase  or  by 
blood,  otherwise  there  is  none  inherit- 
ance for  you. 

"And  if  by  purchase,  behold  you  are 
blessed; 

"And  if  by  blood,  as  you  are  forbid- 
den to  shed  blood,  lo,  your  enemies  are 
upon  you,  and  ye  shall  be  scourged 
from  city  to  city,  and  from  synagogue 
to  synagogue;  and  but  few  shall  stand 
to  receive  an  inheritance." 

These  words  were  spoken  of  the  Lord 
to  Joseph  the  Prophet  in  1831. 

Now  the  time  is  fast  approaching 
when  a  large  portion  of  the  people  that 
I  am  now  addressing  will  go  back  to 
Jackson  county.  A  great  many  people 
that  are  now  dwelling  in  the  State  of 
Utah  will  have  this  privilege.  Whether 
I,  President  Cannon,  President  Smith, 
or  all  the  brethren  of  the  Twelve  will 
go  back  I  know  not.  But  a  large  por- 
tion of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  now 
dwell  in  these  valleys  will  go  back  to 
Jackson  county  to  build  a  holy  city  to 
the  Lord,  as  was  decreed  by  Jehovah 
and  revealed  through  Joseph  Smith. 

A  word  or  two  about  Joseph  Smith. 
Perhaps  there  are  very  few  men  now 
Uving  who  were  so  well  acquainted 
with  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet 
as  I  was.  I  was  with  him  oftentimes.  I 
visited  him  in  his  family,  sat  at  his  ta- 
ble, associated  with  him  under  various 
circumstances,  and  had  private  inter- 
views with  him  for  counsel.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
Cod;  I  know  that  he  was  an  honorable 
man,  a  moral  man,  and  that  he  had  the 
respect  of  those  who  were  acquainted 


with  him.  The  Lord  has  shown  me  most 
clearly  and  completely  that  he  was  a 
Prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  held  the 
Holy  Priesthood  and  the  authority  to 
baptize  people  for  the  remission  of  their 
sins  and  to  lay  hands  upon  them  for 
the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that 
they  might  receive  a  knowledge  them- 
selves in  relation  to  these  things.  I 
am  one  that  has  received  from  the  Lord 
the  strongest  revelation  concerning  the 
truth  of  this  work.  That  manifesta- 
tion was  with  me  powerfully  for  hours 
and  hours;  and  whatever  circumstances 
may  occur  in  my  life,  as  long  as  mem- 
ory lasts  this  perfect  knowledge  will 
remain  with  me.  I  shall  never  forget 
the  first  time  I  saw  Joseph  Smith.  It 
was  in  Father  Johnson's  house,  in  the 
township  of  Hiram,  in  the  State  of 
Ohio,  about  twenty-five  miles  from 
Kirtland.  It  was  near  Father  John- 
son's where  the  mob  tarred  and  feath- 
ered him.  When  I  saw  him  he  was 
standing  in  the  doorway.  Before  him 
was  a  small  bowery  occupied  by  about 
a  hundred  and  fifty  or  two  hundred  men 
and  women.  There  for  the  first  time  I 
heard  his  voice.  When  I  heard  his  tes- 
timony in  regard  to  what  the  Lord  had 
revealed  to  him,  it  seemed  to  me  that 
he  must  be  an  honest  man.  He  talked 
and  looked  like  an  honest  man.  He  was 
an  honest  man. 

Through  this  man,  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Lord  has  said  to  us  what  I  have  been 
reading.  As  some  of  the  brethren 
stated  in  their  addresses  here,  I  think 
that  there  was  need  of  a  reformation 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believo 
that  that  reformation  has  already  com- 
menced. One  of  the  evidences  of  this 
to  me  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
throughout  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion  have 
done  that  which  they  never  did  before 
in  regard  to  paying  their  tithing. 
They  have  paid  twice  the  amount 
of  tithing  this  year  and  last  year 
than  they  paid  two  years  ago.  It 
is  wonderful  how  the  Saints  have  re- 
formed in  this  duty  especially  in  view 
of  the  fact  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  always  had  trouble  to  reform 
themselves  in  money  matters.  They 
could  not  do  it  in  the  day  in  which  this 
revelation  was  given.  Joseph  tried  to 
develop  them  so  that  they  would  con- 


62 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


form  to  the  law  of  consecration,  which 
is  in  advance  of  the  law  of  tithing,  and 
is  a  principle  which,  as  sure  as  I  am 
speaking,  you  and  I  will  one  day  have 
to  conform  to.  When  that  day  comes 
we  will  be  prepared  to  go  to  Zion.  We 
will  not  take  possession  of  the  land  of 
Zion  by  force.  If  we  should  do,  it 
would  turn  out  to  us  as  it  did  with  the 
people  who  were  upon  the  land  of  Zion 
when  this  revelation  was  given.  As 
the  Lord  here  tells  us,  there  are  only 
two  ways  in  which  we  can  come  into 
possession  of  that  land.  One  way  is 
by  purchase,  "and  if  by  purchase,  be- 
hold you  are  blessed."  The  other  way 
is  by  blood,  "and  if  by  blood,  as  you 
are  forbidden  to  shed  blood,  lo,  your 
enemies  are  upon  you,  and  ye  shall  be 
scourged  from  city  to  city,  and  from 
synagogue  to  synagogue,  and  but  few 
shall  stand  to  receive  an  inheritance." 
These  are  the  words  of  God.  They  did 
not  come  to  us  today,  nor  yesterday, 
nor  last  year,  but  they  did  come  to  the 
people  of  God  some  years  ago.  They 
came  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
were  upon  the  land  of  Zion  at  that  time. 
I  do  not  know  that  it  would  be  right 
to  say  that  they  are  of  more  import- 
ance to  us  than  they  were  to  them. 
But  there  is  this  about  it:  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  these  valleys  have  had 
an  experience  that  the  Saints  then  did 
not  have.  We  have  learned  that 
which  they  did  not  learn.  They  were 
badly  persecuted  and  driven  forth  from 
the  land  of  Zion,  and  as  the  revelation 
says,  "but  few  shall  stand  to  receive 
an  inheritance."  There  are  some  per- 
haps within  the  sound  of  my  voice  who 
will  receive  an  inheritance  in  Jackson 
county  before  they  pass  into  the  next 
life. 

I  have  not  heard  at  any  previous  con- 
ference such  talk  as  has  been  given  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  at  this  confer- 
ence. It  is  talk  that  bears  upon  it  re- 
formation and  preparation.  When  we 
think  of  the  wonderful  reformation  that 
has  been  accomplished  in  the  matter  of 
tithing,  it  is  a  manifestation  that  a 
grand  preparation  is  coming.  Do  you 
suppose  that  the  Lord  would  ever 
send  you  and  me  back  to  Jackson 
county  until  He  could  feel  per- 
fectly assured  that  we  would 
do  thoFe  things    which    the  people  of 


Jackson  county  failed  to  do  for  lack 
of  experience  and  faith?  Jackson  coun- 
ty is  the  place,  the  point  that  we  should 
have  continually  in  view.  A  brother 
the  other  day  said  that  he  had  a  thous- 
and dollars  and  he  was  keeping  it  to 
purchase  land  in  Jackson  county,  as 
soon  as  it  would  be  proper  to  do  so. 

We  cannot  consider  ourselves  pre- 
pared, however,  to  go  back  to  Jackson 
county  when  we  fail  to  pay  our  tithing. 
I  do  not  wish  to  say  very  much  about 
tithing,  for  I  think  I  have  said  enough. 
In  the  settlements  that  we  traveled 
through  coming  from  St.  George,  I 
talked  very  strongly  about  it,  because 
I  knew  it  was  a  command  of  the  Lord 
that  the  people  should  repent  and  re- 
form from  the  great  neglect  that  we 
had  all  been  guilty  of  more  or  less.  I 
felt  determined  about  it  then  with  all 
my  heart  and  soul,  and  I  did  not  know 
but  that  the  Saints  might  think  I  was 
going  a  little  too  far.  To  ease  their 
minds  upon  this  I  told  them  that  I 
should  never  come  again  to  talk  to 
them  as  I  talked  at  that  time.  But  I 
said  they  must  do  what  they  had  been 
told  if  they  calculated  to  be  Latter- 
day  Saints.  The  reformation  in  this 
line  has  been  effectual.  There  are 
some,  I  am  told,  that  do  not  think  it  is 
right  to  pay  tithing.  That  need  not 
surprise  anybody.  But  the  great  mass 
of  the  people  are  doing  well  in  relation 
to  this. 

Let  us  all  exercise  faith  for  the  Lord 
to  open  the  way  that  we  may  go  back 
to  Jackson  county.  A  short  time  ago 
something  occurred  in  this  connection 
that  was  a  little  extraordinary.  Two 
men  came  here — good,  honest  men,  as 
I  have  every  reason  to  believe — and  to 
our  surprise  they  wanted  to  establish 
a  union  between  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  the  Josephites.  We  asked  them  to 
explain  themselves.  They  said  they 
had  received  a  revelation  that  the  time 
had  now  come  to  build  a  Temple  in 
Jackson  county,  and  in  order  that  this 
might  be  accomplished,  they  had  felt 
it  was  their  duty  to  go  to  the  Jose- 
phites. They  do  not  believe  in  the  Jo- 
sephites any  more  than  we  do;  but  they 
went  there  and  had  a  conversation  with 
the  president  and  counsel  of  the  Jo- 
sephites.    It  was    proposed  that  they 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


63 


send  four  of  their  elders,  that  we  send 
four  of  our  Elders.and  that  the  Hedrick. 
ites  (to  which  body  these  two  men  be- 
longed) have  four  of  their  elders, 
and  that  all  these  Elders  should 
meet  on  the  land  of  Zion  and  see  if 
they  could  not  make  some  arrange- 
ment by  which  the  Temple  could 
be  built.  Of  course,  we  could  see  very 
well  that  there  was  no  use  trying  in 
that  direction;  but  they  seemed  to  have 
faith  that  it  could  be  effected.  In  part 
these  men  may  have  had  a  manifesta- 
tion. I  believe  that  they  were  about 
right  on  the  point  that  the  time  had 
arrived  to  build  a  Temple;  at  least,  the 
time  is  arriving  when  that  Temple 
should  be  built;  but  it  will  not  be 
built  by  that  class  of  people.  It  will  be 
built  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  con- 
nection with  the  Lamanites. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  let  us  try  and  be  as  perfect 
as  we  possibly  can  be  from  day  to  day. 
No  religion  has  in  it  such  prospects 
as  has  the  religion  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Nothing  was  ever  introduced  to 
man  equal  to  it  in  its  grand  and  glori- 
ous advantages.  We  ought  to  enjoy 
our  religion  to  such  an  extent  as  to  be 
happy  most  all  the  time.  We  should 
never  allow  ourselves  to  get  into  a  po- 
sition where  we  cannot  secure  some 
happiness.  The  prospects  that  have 
been  opened  up  to  us  are  grand.  In 
the  next  life  we  will  have  our  bodies 
glorified  and  free  from  sickness  and 
death.  Nothing  is  so  beautiful  as  a  per- 
son in  a  resurrected  and  glorified  con- 
dition. There  is  nothing  more  lovely 
than  to  be  in  this  condition  and  have 
our  wives  and  children  and  friends  with 
us.  So  long  as  we  are  faithful,  noth- 
ing can  prevent  us  from  getting  all 
the  enjoyment  that  can  be  secured 
through  prospects  of  this  kind.  Wheth- 
er we  are  in  prison,  or  whether  we  are 
in  poverty,  these  prospects  are  always 
before  us,  if  we  live  our  religion.  Now, 
brethren  and  sisters,  be  faithful,  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  and  do  not 
forget  the  teachings  that  you  have  had 
during  the  three  days  of  this  confer- 
ence. Amen. 

"Jerusalem"  was  sung  by  Horace  S. 
Ensign. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Coming  of  Christ  is  near— Preparation  needed  for 
the  event — The  Church  lead  continuously  by 
revelation— Work  of  warning  the  nations— 
Benefits  oi  prosecuting  the  Ministry  withont 
purse  or.  script— The  Gospel  should  be  carried 
to  many  nations  not  yet  warned. 

In  looking  at  this  congregation  and 
thinking  that  I  might  have  to  speak  to 
it,  a  great  fear  has  come  over  me,  and 
I  feel  as  though  I  never  was  weaker 
in  my  life  or  had  more  dread  of  speak- 
ing. The  spirit  of  God  has  been  here 
and  has  rested  upon  the  brethren  who 
have  spoken,  and  it  seems  as  if  every- 
thing has  been  said  that  is  necessary  to 
enlighten,  to  strengthen  and  to  build 
up  the  members  of  this  Church.  In 
the  remarks  that  I  shall  make  I  trust 
that  I  shall  have  the  Spirit  of  God  also, 
as  well  as  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
what  I  say  may  be  dictated  by  the 
Spirit  and  be  of  profit  to  all  of  us.  In 
my  public  ministry  I  have  never  felt 
satisfied  unless  I  was  instructed  and 
edified  myself  in  the  remarks  which  I 
made,  and  generally  I  have  been  more 
strengthened  and  edified  by  my  own  re- 
marks than  perhaps  any  member  of  the 
congregation  has.  I  think  this  should 
be  the  case.  I  believe  all  speakers, 
when  they  speak  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
are  edified  by  the  Spirit  of  God  which 
rests  upon  them. 

I  have  had  resting  upon  my  mind  now 
for  some  time  a  feeling  to  call  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  tell  them  that 
the  coming  of  the  Lord  is  near,  even 
at  our  doors.  I  have  been  greatly  im- 
pressed with  this  feeling.  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  coming,  and  I  feel  that,  as  a 
people  and  as  individuals,  we  ought  to 
prepare  for  His  coming.  It  ought  to 
be  our  study  every  day  how  we  can 
best  prepare  for  His  coming.  While  the 
angels  themselves  do  not  know  when 
He  will  come,  yet  they  do  know,  and 
we  know  also,  —for  God  has  revealed 
it  to  us,— that  Jesus  will  come.  He 
will  come  suddenly,  when  the  world  is 
unprepared  for  Him,  and  when  He  will 
be  least  expected  by  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  and  perhaps  by  us.  He 
commands  us  to  be  "looking  forth 
for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  for 
He  cometh  in  an  hour  you  think  not." 
There  may  be  many  of  us,  and  I  hope 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


there  will  be,  who  will  be  prepared  for 
that  great  and  glorious  event. 

In  view  of  the  certainty  of  His  com- 
ing, I  think  it  is  our  duty  to  prepare 
for  it  by  every  means  in  our  power. 
The  Lord  has  revealed  unto  us  that 
which  He  wants  us  to  do,  and  though 
we  do  not  receive  written  revelations 
(the  men  who  have  held  the  keys  have 
not  always  felt  led  to  write  revelatioas 
as  the  Prophet  Joseph  did),  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  do  receive 
revelations,  and  they  are  as  binding 
upon  the  people  as  though  they 
were  printed  and  published  throughout 
all  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  The  oracles  of 
God  are  here,  and  He  speaks  through 
His  servant  whom  He  has  chosen  to 
hold  the  keys.  He  gives  revelations  to 
others  also  concerning  many  matters, 
but  it  is  reserved  for  one  man,  and  one 
man  alone  at  a  time,  to  give  revelations 
to  the  Church.  "We  have  been  blessed 
as  a  people  with  an  abundance  of  reve- 
lation. Some  have  deceived  them- 
selves with  the  idea  that  because  rev- 
elations have  not  been  written  and  pub- 
lished,therefore  there  has  been  a  lessen- 
ing of  power  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
This  is  a  very  great  mistake,  as  we  will 
find  out  sooner  or  later.  This  Church 
has  been  continually  led  by  the  spirit 
of  revelation.  The  spirit  of  revelation 
has  been  here  in  our  conference.  The 
addresses  that  have  been  delivered 
have  been  made  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  they  are  the 
word  of  God  unto  this  people,  binding 
upon  them,  and  they  will  be  judged  by 
these  words  that  we  have  heard.  If  we 
do  not  listen  to  these  instructions  and 
counsels  and  abide  by  the  word  of  God 
as  it  is  given  to  us  from  time  to  time, 
we  shall  be  held  to  a  strict  accounta- 
bility. 

If  it  be  true,  as  I  testify  it  is,  that 
the  coming  of  the  Lord  is  not  far  dis- 
tant, ought  we  not  as  a  people  and  as 
individuals  to  prepare  ourselves  by  lis- 
tening to  the  instructions  that  we  re- 
ceive, and  putting  our  households  and 
all  our  affairs  in  such  a  condition  that 
if  the  Lord  should  come  suddenly  upon 
us  we  should  be  prepared  for  His  com- 
ing? We  should  see  to  it  that  nothing 
is  left  undone  by  us,  no  commandment 
unfulfilled,  no  counsel  or  instruction 
disregarded;  but  that  our  lives  and  the 
lives  of  our  families  as  far  as  we  can 


control  them,  are  brought  into  such  a 
condition  as  to  be  prepared  for  that 
glorious  event;  that  we  shall  have  oil 
in  our  lamps,  and  the  lamps  be  trimmed 
and  burning,  that  when  we  lay  down  at 
night,  if  the  Lord  should  come,  as  He 
has  said  he  would,  like  a  thief  in  the 
night,  we  would  not  be  unprepared  for 
His  coming. 

Many  who  are  now  within  the  sound 
of  my  voice  have  been  promised  that 
they  shall  live,  if  they  have  faith,  to 
behold  the  second  coming  of  the  Lord. 
The  Lord  has  also  promised  that  certain 
events  shall  take  place  while  men  that 
are  standing  in  the  generation  in  which 
these  promises  were  made  will  yet  be 
alive.  All  these  promises  go  to  show 
that  it  is  not  wise  for  us  to  put  off  the 
day  of  preparation  and  to  think,  "Oh! 
the  Lord  delayeth  His  coming.  He  may 
come  while  my  children,  or  my  grand- 
children, or  some  of  my  posterity  are 
living,  but  he  will  not  come  in  my  day." 

I  know  there  is  a  great  work  to  be 
done  before  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and 
for  one  I  want  to  do  all  in  my  power 
to  perform  the  part  that  is  allotted  to 
me.  I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  when  the  Lord  comes  our  garments 
?hall  be  clean  and  unspotted  from  the 
blood  of  this  generation;  that  we  shall 
not  have  left  undone  anything  that  God 
has  commanded  us  to  do  in  connection 
with  the  generation  in  which  we  live. 

"We  have  been  laboring  as  a  people 
and  as  individuals  with  a  good  deal  of 
zeal  and  devotion.  Elders  have  gone 
forth  and  have  spent  the  best  years  of 
their  lives  in  proclaiming  the  word  of 
the  Lord  to  the  people.  We  have  sent 
to  foreign  lands  and  have  brought  those 
who  have  embraced  the  Gospel  to  Zion. 
When  I  think  of  the  labors  of  this  peo- 
ple in  this  direction,  I  am  amazed  at 
what  they  have  done.  How  willing  the 
Elders  have  been  to  go  and  spend  their 
means  to  save  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth!  There  is  nothing  like  it  in  his- 
tory, that  I  know  anything  about.  In 
this  respect  we  have  been  indefatigable. 
Nevertheless,  there  is  a  great  deal  to  be 
done.  I  believe  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  shown  more  of  a  disposition 
to  save  other  people  than  they  have  to 
save  themselves.  This  class  has  been 
more  willing  to  do  that  which  is  neces- 
sary to  save  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men  than  they  have  been  to  save  their 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


65 


cwn  souls.  They  have  been  careless 
and  indifferent  concerning  the  salvation 
of  themselves  and  their  families.  Presi- 
dent Young  used  to  say  that  there  were 
many  men  that  were  willing  to  die  for 
their  religion  who  would  not  live  it.  So 
there  are  many  men  willing  to  make 
great  sacrifices  for  the  salvation  of 
others  who  are  apparently  indifferent 
about  that  which  is  necessary  for  their 
own  salvation.  This  is  not  right.  It 
is  a  personal  matter  with  us  as  to 
whether  we  are  preparing  ourselves  and 
our  families  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 
Are  we  doing  all  that  we  can  to  prepare 
ourselves  and  our  households,  so  that 
when  He  comes  we  shall  not  be  caught 
unprepared? 

This  talk  that  we  have  heard  so  much 
of  concerning  tithing  is  a  preparatory 
step.  I  believe  President  Snow  has  been 
moved  upon  by  the  power  of  God  to 
stir  this  people  up  to  diligence  upon  this 
point.  There  are  other  things  contin- 
gent upon  the  payment  of  tithing.  Pres- 
ident Snow  has  told  us  this  afternoon 
what  one  thing  is,  and  that  we  should 
prepare  ourselves  for  it.  We  are  not 
groping  as  blind  men  to  find  the  path, 
for  the  Lord  has  made  the  path  plain 
before  us.  We  are  not  in  the  dark;  but 
it  is  necessary  that  we  should  exercise 
faith  in  God  and  beseech  Him  continu- 
ally to  give  unto  us  the  strength  and 
grace  necessary  to  perform  the  labors 
that  have  to  be  done  in  order  to  prepare 
ourselves  as  we  should  do. 

There  is  one  labor  that  has  rested  up- 
on my  mind  with  great  weight  for  some 
time.  I  have  looked  at  the  nations  of 
the  earth  and  have  examined  somewhat 
into  the  labors  of  our  Elders.  We  have 
about  eighteen  hundred  Elders  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  in  various  places,  and 
they  are  doing  the  work  most  thorough- 
ly. Men  and  women  have  gone  forth 
and  have  spent  their  time  with  the  great- 
est pleasure,  forsaking  home,  leaving 
business,  and  devoting  themselves  for 
years  to  the  warning  of  the  people  con- 
cerning the  calamities  that  the  Lord  is 
about  to  pour  out  upon  the  nations  of 
the  earth.  Both  men  and  women  are 
doing  this  work  with  all  diligence  and 
faithfulness.  I  was  told  a  day  or  two 
ago  concerning  a  young  lady  who  is  out 
in  the  ministry.  Her  brother  has  just 
returned  from  a  mission.      In  coming 


from  his  mission  he  had  called  upon  her 
and  they  had  visited  some  places  to- 
gether. I  asked  her  parents  why  she 
did  not  return  with  her  brother.  They 
said  she  did  not  want  to  return.  She 
has  only  been  out  eighteen  months,  she 
is  busily  engaged  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  she  feels  desirous  to  complete 
her  mission  before  she  returns  home. 
This  spirit  is  on  our  sisters,  as  well  as 
on  our  Elders,  and  they  do  all  in  their 
power  to  warn  the  people,  until  in  some 
lands  and  some  cities  there  is  scarcely 
a  house  that  has  not  been  visited  or 
that  has  not  had  a  tract  delivered  to  it. 

According  to  the  last  report 
received  from  Great  Britain, 
two  hundred  and  seventy-four  Elders 
are  laboring  in  that  land,  with  faithful- 
ness and  assiduity,  spending  time  and 
means  and  in  a  certain  sense  wearing 
themselves  out  in  order  to  deliver  the 
message  of  salvation  that  God  has  com- 
mitted to  them.  This  work  has  now 
been  going  on  for  upwards  of  sixty 
years,  and  there  is  scarcely  an  ear  that 
has  not  heard  the  message. 

Concerning  the  missions  in  this  coun- 
try, this  land  has  been  warned  now  for 
seventy  years.  God  commanded  the 
Elders  in  early  days  to  warn  the  peo- 
ple, and  away  back  in  Kirtland  and 
Missouri  He  said  that  the  leading  El- 
ders of  the  Church  had  done  their  duty, 
and  there  was  none  of  the  blood  of  this 
generation  on  their  garments;  but 
those  who  had  not  labored  as  they  had 
done  were  to  continue  in  the  field  until 
it  could  also  be  said  of  them  that  their 
garments  were  clean  from  the  blood  of 
this  generation.  In  that  early  day  the 
Lord  spoke  in  this  manner.  On  one  oc- 
casion He  said:  "Behold,  I  sent  you 
out  to  testify  and  warn  the  people,  and 
it  becometh  every  man  who  hath  been 
warned,  to  warn  his  neighbor. 

"Therefore  they  are  left  without  ex- 
cuse, and  their  sins  are  upon  their  own 
heads." 

The  Lord  appeared  to  be  determined 
to  cut  his  work  short  in  righteousness. 
I  do  not  wish  to  detract  from  the  labors 
of  the  Elders  in  our  own  land;  but  this 
land  has  been  warned.  I  feel  that  we 
can  stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of 
our  great  Creator  free  from  the  blood 
of  this  generation  in  these  United 
States.  It  is  true,  we  have  not  told 
every    man,    woman    and    child  about 


66 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


these  things.  God  requires  us  to  preach 
His  Gospel  and  to  warn  the  inhabitants 
of  all  lands,  and  then  if  they  do  not 
take  warning  and  warn  their  neighbors, 
their  sins  rest  upon  their  own  heads, 
and  our  garments  are  clean. 

How  long  has  this  great  work  which 
God  has  established  been  a  theme  for 
newspaper  writers?  Ever  since  we  came 
to  these  valleys  they  have  known  about 
us;  they  have  had  thousands  of  testi- 
monies borne  to  them  concerning  this 
work;  they  have  seen  it  grow  and 
spread;  they  have  seen  and  heard  of 
our  Elders  traveling  through  their 
cities  and  visiting  foreign  lands;  and 
now  the  warning  voice  of  the  judgments 
of  God  is  following  the  testimony  of  the 
Elders.  As  far  back  as  December,  1832, 
the  Lord  said: 

'And  after  your  testimony  cometh 
wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people; 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the 
testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall 
cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and 
men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground,  and 
shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the 
voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice  of 
lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  the  voice  of  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
heaving  themselves  beyond  their 
bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commo- 
tion; and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall  fail 
them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  peo- 
ple." 

The  Lord's  judgments  are  following 
the  warning  voice  that  has  be.\;n  raised 
by  the  Elders  of  this  Church.  If  an- 
other Elder  did  not  lift  his  voice,  and 
if  another  tract  were  not  distributed  in 
this  land  of  ours,  the  Elders  have  done 
their  duty,  and  this  nation  cannot  in  the 
day  of  judgment  rise  up  against  the 
Elders  of  this  Church  and  say  that  they 
did  not  bear  testimony  to  them  con- 
cerning this  work.  I  am  now  telling 
you  my  own  views.  Our  Elders  spend 
two  years  or  more  in  the  missionary 
field  and  they  baptize  on  an  average  not 
exceeding  four  souls,  or  about  two  a 
year.  I  would  not  dare  to  tell  you  how 
much  money  is  spent  as  well  as  time  to 
do  this. 

I  will  tell  you  another  thing  connected 
with  this,  inasmuch  as  it  occurs  to  my 
mind.  Many  of  those  who  are  brought 
into  the  Church  under  the  present  sys- 
tem of  preaching  with  purse  and  with 
scrip,    instead    of    without  purse  and 


without  scrip,  have  not  the  faith  to 
stand  as  they  would  have  if  they  en- 
tertained Lhe  Elders  and  furnished 
them  with  what  they  needed,  as  God 
has  commanded.  I  do  not  believe  we 
are  getting  so  good  a  class  of  converts 
under  this  system  as  under  the  old  sys- 
tem which  was  followed  by  the  early 
Elders  of  this  Church.  Our  converts 
showed  their  faith  by  feeding  and 
clothing  the  Elders  and  by  giving  them 
money  when  necessary.  By  taking  this 
course  they  proved  themselves  to  be  the 
disciples  of  the  Son  of  God,  for  the 
Lord  says: 

"Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me, 
and  the  same  will  feed  you,  and  clothe 
you,  and  give  you  money. 

"And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes 
you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  no 
wise  lose  his  reward: 

"And  he  that  doeth  not  these  things 
is  not  my  disciple;  by  this  you  may 
know  my  disciples."  (Doc.  and  Gov.  84: 
89—91.) 

But  now  our  Elders  go  and  spend 
their  own  money,  and  people  in  some 
cases  will  not  feed  and  entertain  them. 
Of  course,  I  believe  there  are  many 
places  where  the  people,  but  especially 
the  Saints,  are  exceedingly  kind  to  the 
Elders,  and  while  there  may  be  some 
exceptions,  there  are  very  good  people 
being  gathered  out  now. 

In  this  land  of  ours,  what  warnings 
there  have  been!  The  blood  of  the  mar- 
tyrs shed  upon  this  soil  is  crying  to 
God.  The  expulsion  of  the  Saints  from 
Ohio,  the  expulsion  from  Jackson  coun- 
ty, from  Clay  county,  from  Caldwell 
county,  in  Missouri,  and  from  Illinois- 
are  they  not  testimonies?  I  take  it  that 
they  are,  and  God  will  hold  them  as 
testimonies  against  the  guilty  men  and 
women  who  have  done  these  things,  as 
well  as  against  those  who  have  never 
lifted  their  hands  or  their  voices  to  re- 
dress any  wrong  that  has  been  prac- 
ticed upon  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Then  since  we  came  to  these 
mountains,  this  whole  nation  has 
been  almost  convulsed  by  this  Mor- 
mon question.  It  has  agitated  the  peo- 
ple everywhere.  All  the  newspapers 
in  the  land  have  discussed  it  in  all  its 
phases.  Is  not  this  a  warning?  What 
more  can  we  do  than  we  have  done  in 
this  direction?  Or  shall  we  all  go  out 
and  allow  ourselves  to  be  martyred. 
Hundreds  of  Elders  now  in  the  mis- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


67 


sionary  fields  might  leave  this  nation, 
and  go  to  peoples  who  have  never  heard 
the  sound  of  the  Gospel;  I  would  carry 
the  tidings  of  salvation  to  lands  that 
are  now  locked  in  tyranny,  where  the 
people  cannot  breathe  the  air  of  free- 
dom; and  I  would  risk  imprisonment, 
and  even  death,  in  order  that  these 
peoples  might  be  warned.  No  doubt 
thousands  of  them  are  praying  to  our 
heavenly  Father  to  send  them  the  truth 
of  heaven;  for  there  are  other  souls  who 
want  the  truth  besides  those  who  have 
received  it.  When  this  Gospel  was  first 
carried  to  Europe  thousands  were  pray- 
ing for  God  to  send  the  truth  to  them. 
When  they  heard  the  message  they  re- 
ceived it  gladly.  So  in  other  places 
where  the  Elders  have  gone.  But  there 
are  many  nations  yet  to  be  warned, 
and  we  have  this  work  to  do.  I  will 
not  say  that  we  ought  to  do  it 
before  the  Lord  comes,  for  I  do  not 
know  when  He  will  come.  But  this  duty 
is  incumbent  upon  us;  for  by  people  out 
of  every  nation  under  heaven  Zion  is 
to  be  built  up.  Every  land  and  every 
nationality  will  have  to  contribute  of 
its  strength  and  numbers,  in  greater  or 
less  degree,  to  fulfill  the  words  of  God 
concerning  the  building  up  of  Zion. 
Oriental  lands  now  untouched  by  the 
Elders  of  the  Church  have  to  be  pene- 
trated and  the  honest  souls  sought  out. 
In  this  work  God  will  precede  His  El- 
ders. He  will  send  His  angels  before 
them,  as  He  has  done,  to  prepare  the 
people  to  receive  them  and  to  listen  to 
their  message. 

My  feeling  is  that  we  should  with- 
draw our  efforts  to  a  great  extent  from 
the  countries  where  we  have  been 
spending  so  much  time  and  means  with 
so  little  fruits.  Let  the  Gospel  be  sent 
to  lands  afar  off,  where  tyranny  reigns; 
and  when  the  Gospel  goes  there.  God 
will  soften  the  hearts  of  the  rulers,  and 
greater  freedom  will  follow.  It  has 
been  so  in  Germany;  it  will  be  so  in 
Russia,  in  the  Latin  countries,  and  in 
the  countries  of  eastern  Europe.  God 
is  working  with  the  nations,  and  He 
will  work  with  us  if  we  will  do  our 
duty.  Then  we  can  stand  before  our 
Father  with  our  skirts  clean  from  the 
blood  of  this  generation,  having-  done 
our  whole  duty. 

If  it  should  cost  us  our  liberty,  as  it 
may  do  at  times;  if  it  should  cost  us  our 


lives,  as  it  may  do,  to  carry  this  Gospel 
to  every  land,  it  would  be  no  more  than 
others  have  suffered  in  the  same  cause. 
God  has  said  in  this  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants: 

"And  whoso  layeth  down  his  life  in 
my  cause,  for  my  name's  sake,  shall 
find  it  again,  even  life  eternal: 

"Therefore  be  not  afraid  of  your  ene- 
mies, for  I  have  decreed  in  my  heart, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  I  will  prove  you  in 
all  things,  whether  you  will  abide  in  my 
covenant,  even  unto  death,  that  you 
may  be  found  worthy." 

And  again  He  says: 

"And  all  they  who  suffer  persecution 
for  my  name,  and  endure  in  faith, 
though  they  are  called  to  lay  down 
their  lives  for  my  sake,  yet  shall  they 
partake  of  all  this  glory. 

"Wherefore,  fear  not  even  unto  death; 
for  in  this  world  your  joy  is  not  full,  but 
in  me  your  joy  is  full." 

In  another  revelation  the  Lord  tells 
us: 

"Let  no  man  be  afraid  to  lay  down  his 
life  for  my  sake,  for  whoso  layeth  down 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it  again; 

"And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay  down 
his  life  for  my  sake,  is  not  my  disciple." 

It  is  a  test  by  which  His  disciples  may 
be  known.  But  while  we  should  not 
shrink  from  complying  with  every  re- 
quirement, we  ought  to  avoid  persecu- 
tion and  death  by  every  means  in  our 
power  that  would  be  honorable  and 
consistent  with  our  duties  and  obliga- 
tions. But  in  preaching  this  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  we  ought  not 
to  be  afraid  of  our  liberty  or  our  lives. 
It  has  cost  the  liberties  of  Elders  in 
Austria,  Norway  and  other  places  al- 
ready; but  it  has  been  followed  by 
greater  freedom.  The  efforts  of  the 
Elders  have  been  crowned  with  success 
in  this  respect.  It  has  seemed  as  though 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  has  had  a 
loosening  effect  in  many  places  upon 
the  people. 

In  this  connection  I  think  we  should 
teach  our  young  men  all  the  languages 
of  the  earth.  Let  them  seek  by  study, 
by  faith,  by  the  gift  of  tongues  and  by 
the  gift  of  interpretation  to  understand 
the  languages  of  men.  Our  Mutual  Im- 
provement associations  should  devote 
themselves  to  the  study  of  languages, 
that  we  may  have  a  people  here  famil- 
iar with  every  language  spoken  under 
heaven.  What  was  the  gift  of  tongues 
given  for  if  not  for  this?     Was  it  given 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  the  brethren  and  sisters  to  get  up 
and  talk  in  tongues  in  fast  meeting? 
That  is  a  small  thing,  very  good  in  its 
place;  but  what  we  want  is  to  have  men 
that  can  go  to  any  nation  and  speak 
the  language  of  that  nation  by  the 
power  of  God,  first  having  sought  by 
faith  and  by  study  to  obtain  the  lan- 
guage and  the  gift  of  interpretation.  I 
talk  this  way  because  I  know  that  the 
gift  of  tongues  and  the  gift  of  interpre- 
tation can  be  obtained,  to  enable  an 
Elder  to  speak  to  the  people  and  to  un- 
derstand them  when  they  speak  to 
him.  We  should  utilize  these  gifts  that 
God  has  given  for  this  purpose.  Many 
of  our  Elders  who  go  out  into  foreign 
lands  do  acquire  the  language  by  that 
gift  and  are  able  to  speak  it  with  a  fa- 
cility that  surprises  other  people.  On 
the  Sandwich  Islands  I  know  that  the 
people  were  astonished  by  the  facility  by 
which  the  language  was  acquired  by  our 
Elders  and  the  correctness  with  which 
it  was  spoken  by  them.  So  it  has  been 
in  Germany.  I  have  had  sons  there 
who,  in  a  very  few  weeks  were  able  to 
express  their  thoughts  in  the  German 
language.  Other  men  have  had  sons 
there  whose  efforts  have  been  attended 
with  the  same  results.  So  it  will  be  if 
we  send  our  Elders  to  any  land — to 
France,  to  Spain,  to  Protugal,  Italy  and 
all  along  the  Mediterranean,  to  the  isles 
of  Greece,  up  to  the  Danubian  princi- 
palities, and  into  Austria  with  its  nu- 
merous nationalities,  to  Hungary,  Po- 
land, and  to  Russia.  Almost  all  these 
lands  are  sealed  against  us  at  the  pres- 
ent time.  We  have  not  made  any  great 
effort  to  enter  some  of  them.  What 
has  been  done  has  been  done  in  a  spas- 
modic way.  Now  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  that  the  time  has  come  for  us  to 
break  forth  and  lay  siege,  so  to  speak, 
to  these  lands,  whereby  an  entrance 
may  be  effected  and  the  Gospel  be 
preached  to  the  people.  If  the  time  has 
come  for  Elders  to  go  to  Japan,  let 
Japan  be  penetrated.  After  a  while 
perhaps  an  opening  may  be  made  in 
Corea,  And  in  Manchuria,  and  in  China, 
and  these  lands  be  penetrated  by  the 
Elders  with  this  message  of  salvation, 
as  soldiers  of  Christ.  Our  young  men 
go  to  the  Philippines  and  to  Cuba,  and 
they  have  been  willing  to  lay  down  their 
lives  for  their  country.  Young  men 
from  this  State  have  done  so,  and  have 


thus  shown  their  patriotism.  Let  us  in 
like  manner  show  our  patriotism  to  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  for  the  salvation 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  great  leader.  Now 
is  the  time  for  us  to  do  this,  and  we 
shall  be  blessed  in  doing  it.  God  will 
be  with  us  and  will  bless  us,  as  He 
has  done  in  every  effort  that  we  have 
made  to  do  His  will.  It  is  His  will  that 
this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  should  be 
preached,  that  every  ear  mav  hear  the 
sound  of  it;  not,  perhaps,  by  direct  con- 
tact with  every  individual,  but  by  the 
signs  that  accompany  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  the  wonderful  events  that  are 
taking  place. 

The  Spirit  of  God  is  moving  upon  the 
people  in  all  lands,  and  in  many  coun- 
tries they  are  waiting  in  solemn  antici- 
pation of  what  is  going  to  happen.  All 
the  nations  of  the  earth  feel  that  some- 
thing remarkable  is  likely  to  happen, 
but  they  do  not  know  what.  The  hon- 
est in  heart  in  those  lands,  when  they 
hear  the  glad  tidings  that  God  has  pro- 
vided a  refuge  to  which  thev  can  flee 
as  He  did  in  the  days  of  Noah,  will 
be  led  co  rejoice.  God  has  founded 
this  land  and  the  government  for  the 
express  purpose  that  Zion  might 
be  built  upon  this  land,  and  that  the 
people  of  all  nations  might  come  here 
singing  His  praises  and  thanking  Him 
that  from  the  darkness  and  the  threat- 
ening evils  by  which  they  are  surround- 
ed He  has  provided  a  way  of  escape,  a 
safe  place,  that  when  calamities  and 
judgments  come  upon  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  they  can  stand  in  holy 
places  and  be  secure  by  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God.  What  a  glori- 
ous theme  this  is  for  the  Elders  to  car- 
ry to  the  down-trodden  of  the  nations 
of  the  earth  who  groan  in  darkness  and 
who  see  no  way  of  deliverance!  Nor 
will  it  be  the  down-trodden  alone  who 
will  listen  to  these  tidings.  Men  in  high 
places  and  of  commanding  positions 
will  yet  listen  to  them,  and  they  will 
take  note  of  this  extraordinary  people 
who  have  done  such  a  remarkable  work 
and  who  are  now  traversing  the  globe 
to  bring  from  every  land  all  who  will 
listen  to  their  message;  to  bring  them 
with  all  their  traditions  to  this  place 
which  we  call  Zion,  where  they  can,  by 
the  fusing  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
be  consolidated  into  one  united  people. 
It  is  already  the  most  wonderful  thing 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


69 


that  has  ever  taken  place  upon  the 
earth;  but  if  we  will  do  our  duty  on  the 
lines  that  I  have  been  speaking,  how 
much  more  influence  will  we  have  and 
how  much  more  will  our  God  be  glori- 
fied! The  world  will  see  and  wonder  at 
what  is  done  by  those  who  are  laboring 
in  the  Lord's  name,  without  taking  any 
credit  to  themselves,  but  ascribing  all 
power  and  success  to  Him  and  His  Holy 
Spirit.  These  will  be  additional  testi- 
monies to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
that  God  is  in  this  great  movement, 
and  that  he  is  preparing  the  way,  as 
the  prophets  have  predicted,  for  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ. 

Before  closing,  I  wish  to  say,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  you  will 
take  these  things  to  heart  and  prepare 
yourselves.  If  you  are  not  living  as  you 
should  do,  regulate  your  households  and 
strive  to  live  according  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  the  counsels  of 
His  servants.  Bring  your  lives  into 
complete  subjection  to  the  will  of  God. 
If  there  is  anything  in  you  or  in  your 
families  that  is  not  in  accordance  with 
the  laws  of  God,  divest  yourselves  of 
it  as  fast  as  you  can  by  faith  and 
prayer.  Let  us  be  a  holy  people.  Oh! 
when  I  hear  the  brethren  spending  time 
talking  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  I 
feel  to  say,  are  we  still  little  children 
that  we  have  to  be  talked  to  in  this  way 
meeting  after  meeting?  It  is  disgrace- 
ful that  a  people  who  know  as  much  as 
we  do  should  have  to  be  talked  to  about 
those   little  habits   concerning  which 


God  has  spoken  so  plainly.  The  law  of 
tithing  ought  to  be  so  understood  that 
every  man,  woman  and  child  would 
obey  it  gladly,  for  it  is  accompanied  by 
great  promises,  and  it  will  prepare  the 
way  for  greater  things,  as  President 
Snow  has  told  us. 

I  pray  God  that  that  which  has  been 
said  during  this  conference  may  sink 
deep  into  all  our  hearts.  I  pray  God  to 
bless  you  all,  to  be  with  you,  to  fill  you 
with  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  preserve  your 
lives,  to  preserve  your  generations,  that 
you  yourselves  or  some  of  your  pos- 
terity, if  you  should  happen  to  pass 
away  before  that  time,  may  be  num- 
bered among  the  Saints  of  God  who 
shall  enter  into  that  millennial  glory 
which  is  prepared  for  the  faithful,  and 
that  none  of  us  may  ever  be  destitute 
of  a  man  or  men  to  stand  before  the 
Lord,  bearing  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
throughout  all  the  generations  to  come, 
until  time  shall  be  no  more,  which  is 
my  prayer  for  you  all  and  for  myself, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward  and  the 
choir  sang  the  anthem,  'When  Thou 
Comest." 

The  final  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Francis  M.  Lyman. 

Conference  then  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  the 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done 
by  Arthur  Winter, 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual  General  Conference. 


The  general  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  at  the  Tabernacle  Salt  Lake  City, 
Sunday  evening,  Oct.  7,  1900,  at  7 
o'clock.  General  Superintendent  Geo. 
Q.  Cannon  presiding.  There  were  pres- 
ent of  the  general  superintendency, 
Geo.  Q.  Cannon  and  Karl  G.  Maeser; 
most  of  the  members  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union  Board,  several  of 
the  Apostles,  and  a  number  of  Stake 
superintendents,  ward  officers  and  Sun- 
day school  workers.  The  conference 
was  opened  by  the  Tabernacle  choir, 
conducted  by  Prof.  Evan  Stephens, 
singing,  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills 
We  Bless  Thee." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  W. 
Taylor.  The  choir  and  congregation 
sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of 
salvation." 

General  Secretary  Horace  S.  Ensign 
called  the  roll,  which  was  responded  to 
by  thirty-two  Stakes  and  the  Iosepa 
colony. 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT 
GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

We  desire  whatever  may  be  said  this 
evening  by  those  who  shall  speak  to  be 
said  briefly  and  to  the  point.  There  are 
several  subjects  that  will  be 
brought  before  the  meeting,  and  we 
desire  to  get  through  with  our  business 
so  that  we  can  dismiss  at  the  proper 
time. 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  see  such  a 
large  congregation  here  this  evening.  It 
is  an  evidence  of  the  interest  that  is 
taken  in  the  great  work  of  training  our 
children  in  the  principles  that  belong 
to  our  religion  and  of  preparing  them 
by  proper  instruction  for  the  duties  of 
life  as  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have 
every  reason  to  be  encouraged.  Every 
man   and  woman  that  Is  engaged  in 


this  work  throughout  the  Church  has 
great  cause  to  be  encouraged  at  the 
results  of  their  labors.  The  Sunday 
school  work  is  prospering,  and,  it  is 
enlisting,  as  it  should  do,  the  energy, 
the  talent  and  the  skill  of  a  great  many 
people  who  labor  in  this  cause,  prompt- 
ed entirely  by  motives  of  love— love  for 
the  salvation  of  their  fellows. 

I  pray  that  while  we  are  together  this 
evening,  we  may  have  the  Spirit  of  God 
resting  upon  us,  and  if  there  are  any 
here  who  have  any  subject  that  they 
would  like  talked  about,  we  would  be 
glad  to  get  hints  from  them,  or  have 
them  come  to  the  stand  and  mention  it, 
so  that  the  subject,  if  deemed  worthy 
of  attention,  may  receive  some  com- 
ment from  the  brethren  of  the  Board.  I 
ask  God  to  bless  us  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  MILLS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  As  Latter- 
day  Saints  we  are  all  striving  to  the 
same  end.  Our  duty  here  upon  earth  is 
to  live  in  such  a  way  that  when  we 
have  finished  our  work  here,  we  may 
go  back  into  the  presence  of  God.  We 
have  various  organizations  +o  help  us  to 
this  end,  above  all,  we  have  a  story  to 
tell  that  no  other  people  can  tell;  and 
unless  we  are  ready  and  willing  to  tell 
that  story,  we  are  not  doing  our  duty. 
We  should  not  be  of  that  class  of  people 
that  Rousseau  spoke  of  when  he  said, 
"Some  men  live  to  be  a  hundred  years 
old  who  die  at  their  birth."  We  ought 
always  to  be  alive  to  do  our  duty;  and 
if  we  do  this  we  shall  find  that  our 
work  will  be  well  accomplished  and  we 
shall  reach  the  end  we  seek. 

The  aim  in  a  Sunday  school  is  to 
make  Latter-day  Saints.  If  we  are  go- 
ing to  make  Latter-day  Saints  of  the 
children,  we  certainly  ought  to  be  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  ourselves.  Teachers 
ought  to  live  up  to  the  minor  duties. 


72 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


They  should  not  delve  into  the  myster- 
ies. These  minor  duties  form  a  good 
foundation  for  our  characters;  and  if 
we  work  harmoniously  in  this  respect, 
we  shall  be  able  to  accomplish  that 
which  we  desire.  In  our  Stake  confer- 
ences, which  are  held  annually,  it  is 
necessary  that  all  officers  participate 
in  that  work;  that  representatives  be 
sent  from  every  Sunday  school  to  the 
annual  stake  conference,  in  order  that 
they  may  get  the  instructions  that  are 
given  there,  and  take  them  back  to  the 
various  districts  from  which  they  come. 
But  even  in  this  case,  not  all  of  the 
people  in  the  Stake  can  go  to  the  an- 
nual Stake  conferences;  and  for  that 
reason,  in  some  Stakes,  particularly  in 
the  Sanpete  Stake,  the  Weber  Stake, 
and  the  Utah  Stake  of  Zion,  there  have 
been  district  conferences  appointed,  and 
in  these  district  conferences  the  same 
work,  largely,  is  taken  up  that  is  taken 
up  in  the  Stake  conferences.  In  these 
district  conferences  more  people  can  be 
enlisted.  All  of  the  people  of  the  dis- 
trict in  which  the  conference  is  held, 
can  attend,  making  comparisons  and 
witnessing  the  exercises.  The  exercises 
to  be  rendered  here  are  the  best  to  be 
found  in  all  of  the  schools  of  the  dis- 
trict, and  the  superintendents,  seeing 
these,  may  introduce  many  things 
which  will  improve  their  own  schools. 
And  a'lways  only  the  best  of  the  exer- 
cises of  all  the  districts  ought  to  be 
brought  before  the  Saints  in  the  Stake 
conference,  and  then  the  Stake  officers, 
visiting  all  the  district  conferences,  are 
enabled  to  see  the  work  that  is  done  in 
the  various  parts  of  their  Stakes  better 
than  they  can  see  it  in  the  Stake  annual 
conference;  and  the  members  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
who  visit  the  district  conferences  can 
see  the  work  that  is  done  in  these  vari- 
ous districts.  In  the  central  Stakes  the 
work  done  in  the  district  conferences 
has  been  very  effective  in  rousing  peo- 
ple to  their  duties,  and  this  work  would 
be  even  more  effective  in  the  outlying 
Stakes,  if  district  conferences  were  held 
regularly.  The  general  board  would 
therefore  urge  the  holding  of  such  con- 
ferences. We  have  found  in  our  visits 
to  Stake  conferences  that  in  some  cases 
there  is  a  very  poor  representation  from 
remote  sections  of  the  Stake.  In 
some    cases    people    have    to  come 


from  fifty  to  a  hundred  miles  to 
attend  Stake  conferences;  and 
there  are  usually  enough  people  in 
these  remote  parts  to  form  good  dis- 
trict conferences.  Now  if  we  will  all 
be  energetic  in  our  work  in  the  Stake 
conferences,  and  in  the  district  confer- 
ences, and  in  our  ward  Sunday  schools, 
we  shall  see  unparalleled  improvement 
in  our  Sunday  school  work.  If  we  will 
live  up  to  the  minutest  duties,  there  is 
no  doubt  that  we  will  reach  the  great 
end  in  view.  But  although  this  is  our 
duty;  although  we  are  expected  to  do 
all  this  work;  although  we  are  expect- 
ed to  go  through  this  life  and  perform 
all  our  duties,  still  we  have  our  own 
free  agency.  As  officers  and  teachers 
we  can  do  as  we  please.  We  should 
not  stand  in  the  road  of  the  progress 
of  the  children  placed  under  our  charge. 
If  we  can't  keep  pace  with  the  work  of 
God,  we  should  step  aside,  and  let  the 
great  work  go  on.  If  we  do  wrong  we 
shall  have  to  meet  the  consequences  of 
our  wrong  doing.  If  we  do  right  we 
shall  have  our  reward. 
/ 

"Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free, 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright — 
Bless  him  with  wisdom,  love  and  light — 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  wind. 

Freedom  and  reason  make  us  men; 
Take  these  away,  what  are  we  then? 
Mere  animals,  and  just  as  well 
The    beasts  may  think    of  heaven  or 
hell." 

Let  us,  then,  brethren  and  sisters, 
be  energetic  in  the  great  work  the  Lord 
has  called  us  to  perform  through  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  and  always 
be  ready  to  work.  I  ask  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  us  in  our  endeavors,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ASSISTANT     SUPT.     KARL  G. 
MAESER. 

My  dear  fellow  laborers,  among  the 
many  features  in  the  Sunday  school 
work,  the  importance  of  concert  recita- 
tion is,  in  some  of  our  Sunday  schools, 
not  sufficiently  appreciated,  and  I  have 
been  instructed  by  President  Cannon  to 
lay  this  matter  before  this  conference. 

It  is  desired  by  the  Sunday  School 


:  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Union  Board  that  concert  recitation  be 
practiced  in  every  Sunday  school 
throughout  our  Union  every  Sunday, 
for  five  minutes  or  so,  before  the  differ- 
ent departments  disperse  for  their  reci- 
tations, that  all  may  be  together,  the 
theological,  second  intermediate,  first 
intermediate  and  primary,  and  all  have 
the  benefit  of  the  training  of  that  par- 
ticular feature.  Many  of  our  Sunday 
school  superintendents  do  not  appreci- 
ate the  importance  of  this  feature.  A 
concert  recitation  has  the  tendency  of 
photographing,  so  to  speak,  the  subject 
on  the  minds  of  the  scholars,  so  that 
they  do  not  forget  it.  They  are  carried 
along  with  it,  but  it  is  not  desirable 
to  make  the  exercise  monotonous  by  a 
too  frequent  repetition  of  the  same  sub- 
ject. The  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
have  recommended  six  subjects,  to  start 
with:  The  Lord's  Prayer,  the  Ten  Com- 
mandment, the  Articles  of  Faith,  the 
words  by  which  the  bread  and  the  water 
of  the  Sacrament  are  consecrated,  the 
Testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses  and 
the  presentation  of  the  Authorities  of 
the  Church  as  published  in  the  Supple- 
ment to  the  Leaflets.  These  are  six 
subjects  giving  material  for  six  weeks 
in  succession,  one  subject  each  Sunday. 
Then  they  can  all  be  repeated  three  or 
four  times  without  becoming  monoton- 
ous and  wearisome  to  the  pupils.  In 
regard  to  the  Ten  Commandments  and 
the  Articles  of  Faith,  the  Sun- 
day School  Board  desires  that  the 
number  of  each  of  the  Commandments 
and  of  the  Articles  of  Faith  should 
be  repeated  by  the  school — the  "first" 
commandment,  the  "second,"  the 
"third,"  and  so  also,  the  "first"  article, 
the  "second,"  and  the  "third,"  and  so 
on.  It  would  be  well  if  our  teachers 
conducting  the  concert  exercises  would 
first  familiarize  themselves  with  the 
subjects.  Do  not  stand  before  the  class 
and  make  mistakes.  As  long  as  you 
cannot  trust  yourself,  keep  your  card 
before  you;  but  let  the  teacher  try  as 
soon  as  he  can  to  stand  before  the  class 
without  a  note,  a  book,  or  a  card,  so 
that  he  may  set  an  example  to  the  pu- 
pils. That  is— what  we  want  them  to 
learn  and  know,  we  want  to  first  learn 
and  to  know  ourselves.  There  is  this 
further  benefit  to  be  derived,  a  concert 
recitation  harmonizes  the  minds  of  the 


73 

pupils  of  the  whole  school,  about  in  the 
same  way  as  the  singing  does.  It  is  a 
means  of  disciplining,  harmonizing,  and 
subduing  the  restless  heterogenous 
spirits  of  which  a  school  is  composed. 

Objections  have  been  made  by  many 
of  our  professional  teachers  to  this 
concert  recitation.  They  think  that  it 
is  too  mechanical.  Let  it  be  so.  If 
we  should  not  teach  any  religious  prin-^ 
ciple  to  the  children  until  they  are  cap- 
able of  understanding  it — if  that  prin- 
ciple should  be  adopted,  there  would  be 
a  danger  of  it  leading  our  children 
away  from  the  Lord.  "We  could  not 
teach  them  to  pray.  We  should  not 
have  the  little  child,  three  or  four  years 
old,  kneeling  at  its  mother's  knee,  say- 
ing its  evening  prayer.  We  do  not 
catechise  the  child;  we  do  not  analyze 
the  meaning  of  that  prayer.  We  teach 
the  child  to  repeat  it,  although  it  does 
not  understand  it  thoroughly.  If  we 
should  wait  until  the  children  under- 
stand all  the  prayer,  we  should  not 
teach  them  to  pray.nor  teach  them  any- 
thing about  God,  nor  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, nor  anything  of  the  Di- 
vine nature,  until  they  are  four- 
teen or  fifteen  years  old,  when 
they  would  be  weaned  away  and 
have  no  taste  for  Divine  things.  This 
is  a  wrong  principle  altogether.  Teach 
them  from  the  beginning.  I  could  bear 
my  testimony  in  regard  to  these  mat- 
ters, from  my  own  experience.  But 
keep  concert  recitations  up,  my  fellow 
teachers,  from  one  Sunday  to  another. 
Commence  with  those  six  subjects 
which  the  Sunday  School  Union  has 
recommended.  Perhaps  a  passage  from 
the  scriptures  may  be  judiciously  in- 
troduced by  the  superintendent  once  in 
a  while.  A  passage  of  scripture,  a  short 
one,  of  two  or  three  lines — not  more — 
will  occasionally  answer  for  a  concert 
recitation.  Make  your  school  familiar 
with  good  passages  of  scripture,  with 
the  sayings  of  wise  men,  of  servants 
of  God.  These  are  the  subjects  sug- 
gested for  concert  recitation,  and  the 
more  you  practice  these,  the  more  good 
you  will  find  growing  out  of  it. 

A  auestion  is  asked:  "Is  it  preferable 
to  repeat  the  same  exercise  in  concert 
three  or  four  times  consecutively,  or 
change  the  subject  each  Sunday?"  If  I 
have  not  been  perfectly  plain  on  that 
subject,  I  repeat  what  I  wanted  to  say. 


74 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Change  the  subject  from  one  Sunday  to 
another;  otherwise  it  would  be  monot- 
onous. One  Sunday  recite  in  concert  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  the  following  Sunday  the 
Ten  Commandments,  the  next  the  Arti- 
cles of  Faith,  and  so  on.  There  are 
subjects  for  six  Sundays  for  them,  and 
then  take  them  over  again  two  or  three 
times,  in  order  not  to  become  monoton- 
ous. The  children  will  thus  be  made 
quite  familiar  with  them.  Any  superin- 
tendent may  introduce  other  subjects, 
as  for  instance  extracts  from  the  Ser- 
mon on  the  Mount,  verses  from 
standard  hymns   of  the  Church,  etc. 

APOSTLE  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  will  say  that  six  months  azo  I 
tried  to  sing  "O,  My  Father,"  and 
failed.  I  am  going  to  try  again,  and 
if  I  fail  tonight,  I  will  try  again  each 
six  months  from  now.  (Brother  Grant 
then  sang  the  hymn,  "O,  My  Father," 
through,  with  organ  accompaniment  by 
Prof.  Stephens.) 

PRESIDENT   GEORGE    Q.  CANNON. 

I  think  Brother  Grant's  perserverance 
in  learning  to  sing  is  something  very 
admirable.  I  suppose  if  some  of  us  who 
have  met  with  him  in  council  and  heard 
him  join  with  us  in  singing  had  been 
asked  if  it  would  be  possible  for  him 
ever  to  be  able  to  do  what  he  has  done 
tonight,  I  think  the  universal  reply 
would  have  been  in  the  negative.  But 
he  has  persevered,  and  I  think  it  is  as 
good  an  illustration  of  the  success  of 
perserverance  as  I  ever  met  with  or 
heard  of  in  this  Church;  and  I  trust  he 
will  continue,  for  he  takes  great  en- 
joyment in  singing,  and  he  certainly 
has  made  very  wonderful  improvement 
considering  the  difficulties  he  has  had 
to  contend  with. 

APOSTLE  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  & 
Covenants,  that  the  Lord  delights  in 
the  song  of  the  heart,  "yea,  the  song 
of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me, 
and  shall  be  answered  with  a  blessing 
upon  their  heads."  I  love  the  hymn, 
"O,  My  Father."  I  love  the  hymns, 
"Come,  come  ye  Saints,"  and  "We 
thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet;" 
and  if  I  lack  the  ability  to  sing  them 
well,     I     do     not     lack     the  abil- 


ity to  appreciate  and  love 
the  words,  and  I  am  deter- 
mined to  learn  to  pray  to  the  Lord  in 
the  songs  of  Zion.  My  determination 
to  learn  is  such  that  I  have  sung  some 
of  our  hymns  115  times  in  one  day. 

I  have  been  appointed  tonight  to 
speak  on  Cottage  Sunday  schools.  I 
wish  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  wherever  there  is  opportunity  to 
have  cottage  Sunday  schools,  and  get 
our  young  people  to  attend,  who  are 
not  now  attending  our  regular  Sunday 
schools,  we  want  them  organized.  We 
want  all  the  young  people  to  have  the 
benefits  of  attending  school.  We  don't 
want  a  single,  solitary  one  of  our  child- 
ren neglected.  We  understand  that 
people  who  are  not  of  us  are  estab- 
lishing schools  in  private  homes.  It 
is  said  that  the  Catholics  boast  that  if 
they  can  have  the  children  to  educate 
until  they  are  thirteen  years  of  age, 
they  will  defy  the  world  to  turn  them 
away  from  Catholicism.  If  they  can 
make  this  boast,  then  if  we  as  fathers 
and  mothers  and  teachers  in  the  Sabbath 
schools  do  our  duty,  we  can  defy  the 
world  to  turn  our  little  ones  away  from 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Even'  mis- 
sionary who  is  sent  out  into  the  world 
is  instructed  by  the  Apostles  that,  under 
no  circumstances  are  they  to  baptize  a 
man's  wife  without  the  consent  of  her 
husband,  and  under  no  circumstances 
are  they  to  baptize  children  without  the 
consent  of  the  parents.  We  do  not  send 
men  abroad  to  steal  children  from  the 
people  of  the  world;  but  the  missionar- 
ies from  the  world  come  here,  and  they 
say,  there  is  no  need  of  getting  after 
these  old  hard  headed  "Mormons,"  as 
we  can  do  nothing  with  them,  we  will 
have  to  work  with  their  children.  Let 
the  Latter-day  Saints  be  alive  and  look- 
ing after  every  one  of  their  children, 
and  then  there  will  be  no  danger  of 
their  being  stolen;  and  one  of  the  best 
ways  is  to  have  these  cottage  Sunday 
schools  where  there  is  no  opportunity 
for  our  children  to  get  to  the  regular 
Sunday  schools.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

Last  Friday  evening  there  was  quite  an 
important  meeting  held  in  this  city. 
At  that  meeting  there  were  very  many 
topics  discussed  in  regard  to  Sunday 
school    work;  and.  by    the    way,  the 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


75 


meeting  was  composed  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union  board,  the  sup- 
erintendents of  stakes  and  their  as- 
sistants and  aids. 

Before  the  close  of  the  meeting,  a 
question  came  up  as  to  the  advisability 
of  buying  out  the  Juvenile  Instructor, 
that  the  Sunday  School  Union  board 
might  own  it.  Of  course  you  under- 
stand that  George  Q.  Cannon  &  Sons 
have  sold  out  their  publishing  business 
to  the  Deseret  News.  Some  of  the 
brethren  at  this  meeting  in  question, 
thought  the  time  opportune  to  buy 
out  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  that  it 
might  be  owned  by  the  Union.  The 
question  was  discussed,  and  we  had  al- 
ready bought  it  without  asking  Presi- 
dent Cannon  anything  about  it.  But 
finally  he  talked  to  the  meeting,  and 
he  said  that  he  thought,  too,  that  the 
time  was  ripe  for  the  Sunday  School 
Union  to  own  the  Juvenile  Instructor. 
And  upon  the  motion  of  one  of  the 
brethren,  a  committee  was  appointed 
to  confer  with  President  Cannon,  and 
see  if  terms  could  be  made  looking  to 
its  purchase.  This  committee  desire  me 
to  say  tonight  that  since  that  meeting 
on  Friday  evening,  they  have  been 
working  looking  to  the  end  that  the 
Juvenile  Instructor  might  become  the 
property  of  the  Union.  We  cannot  re- 
port in  full  tonight  as  to  the  outcome 
of  our  labors;  but  we  are  quite  sure 
that  the  deal  will  be  consummated,  and 
we  hope  to  have  all  our  plans  matured 
so  that  we  can  report  to  you  at  the 
coming  convention,  and  perhaps  the 
deal  will  be  consummated  then.  Presi- 
dent George  Q.  Cannon  has  met  us 
more  than  half  way  as  far  as  we  have 
gone,  and  he  has  told  us  he  is  not  a 
hard  man  to  deal  with,  and  I  think  we 
will  be  able  to  consummate  this  ar- 
rangement.If  we  do, then  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
want  you  to  support  that  paper  as  loy- 
ally in  the  future  as  you  have  in  the 
past.  We  would  have  you  bear  in  mind 
that  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  board 
is  not  the  Sunday  School  Union.  If  this 
paper  is  bought  and  we  continue  to 
publish  it.  it  will  be  published  by  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union, and  every 
superintendent  and  every  teacher  and 
every  boy  and  every  girl  conected  with 
the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  belong 
to  that  union,  and  therefore  we  expect 


your  support.  Also,  while  we  haven't 
got  President  Cannon's  consent  yet,  we 
expect  he  will  consent  to  remain  the 
editor  of  the  paper.  We  will  report 
further  on  this  at  the  coming  conven- 
tion. 

The  committee  on  convention  also  de- 
sire me  to  report  that  everything  is 
working  along  harmoniously,  and  we 
believe  that  we  will  have  a  good  time. 
We  expect  to  welcome  you  just  as 
heartily,  we  expect  to  feed  you  just 
as  well,  we  expect  to  have  just  as  good 
a  program,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  if 
you  will  each  come  with  as  much  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  with  you  this  time  as 
you  did  last — and  I  am  quite  sure  you 
will — you  will  enjoy  yourselves  individ- 
ually and  collectively,  and  the  conven- 
tion will  be  a  great  success.  We  feel 
on  behalf  of  the  committee  to  say  this 
to  you. 

Elder  John  Robinson  sang  in  his  us- 
ual sweet  style,  "Grant  us  Thy  peace." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Here  is  a  question:  "We  have  but  one 
baptizing  day  in  each  year  in  our 
Stake.  Thus  we  nearly  always  have 
children  over  eight  years  old  in  our 
schools  that  are  not  baptized."  This  I 
think  to  be  a  very  great  mistake.  I  be- 
lieve in  this  Stake  of  Zion  there  is  a 
baptizing  day  in  each  month,  and  all 
the  children  that  reach  the  age  of  eight 
years,  and  all  others  who  desire  it,  may 
be  baptized,  without  waiting  any  long- 
er than  one  month.  We  think  it  is  all 
wrong  that  children  should  be  kept  for 
nearly  a  year  after  they  are  eight  years 
of  age  before  they  are  permitted  to  be 
baptized,  and  we  would  recommend  to 
all  the  Bishops  and  to  the  presidents  of 
all  the  Stakes,  to  institute  the  prac- 
tice of  baptizing  once  in  each  month  in 
all  the  Stakes,  and  as  far  as  possible  in 
all  the  wards,  so  that  all  the  children 
may  be  baptized,  when  they  are  eight 
years  old,  according  to  the  command- 
ment that  is  given  to  us  in  the  revela- 
tion. We  think  that  the  parents  as  well 
as  the  Bishops  should  take  very  great 
pains  in  carrying  out  the  instructions 
that  are  given  us  in  the  revelations  re- 
specting the  proper  teaching  of  their 
children  in  the  first  principles  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  faith  in 
God,  and  in  His  Son,  so  that  they  may 


76 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


be  prepared  for  baptism  when  they  are 
eight  years  old.  Amen. 

APOSTLE  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  re- 
quested to  soeak  for  a  moment  or  two 
upon  the  question  of  Sunday  school 
concerts,  that  is,  having  Sunday  even- 
ing concerts  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Sunday  school  for  the  purpose  of  rais- 
ing funds  for  defraying  expenses  of 
various  kinds.  I  would  say  that  it  is 
the  desire  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  of  President  Cannon, 
who  presides  over  this  organization, 
that  you  do  not  hold  what  are  called 
sacred  concerts  upon  the  Sabbath  day 
and  make  a  charge  for  the  same. 

There  is  a  custom  in  several  of  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  for  members  of  the  brass 
band  to  get  together  upon  the  Sabbath 
day  for  the  purpose  of  practicing, 
claiming  that  it  is  the  only  time  when 
they  can  get  together;  but  this  is  not 
approved  of  by  the  brethren.  We, 
therefore,  recommend  to  you — to  the 
musical  fraternity — that  you  do  not  get 
together  and  practice  brass  bands  upon 
the  Sabbath  day.  I  may  say  the  same 
as  to  secular  songs  in  the  Sunday 
schools.  The  idea  is,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  they  do  not  wish  you  to  zet 
up  schemes  to  make  merchandise  out  of 
the  people  on  the  Sabbath  day,  in  any 
way,  shape  or  form. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  that  we  may 
understand  our  duties  in  these  and  all 
other  respects,  and  comply  with  them. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

APOSTLE  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

It  is  delightful  to  meet  with  so  many 
people  who  are  interested  in  the  Sunday 
school  cause.  I  do  not  know  of  a  better 
cause  in  connection  with  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  it  embraces,  directly  or 
indirectly,  all  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  are  none  so  aged,  nor  hardly  any 
£»o  young,  but  they  are  interested  in 
the  Sunday  school  cause.  It  has  be- 
come popular,  because  everybody  favors 
the  work,  and  everybody  seems  willing 
to  do  their  part.  This  cause  has  been 
very  materially  benefited  by  the  organ 
spoken  of  here  by  our  brother,  the 
Juvenile  Instructor,  and  I  don't  know 
but  what  we  have  come  to  feel  as 
though  it  was  our  organ  already.  It 


has  always  been  the  organ  of  the  Sun- 
day schools,  and  it  has  always  seemed 
to '  me  as   though  it  was  ours;  and 
whatever  it  lacks  of  being  ours,  it  will 
come  to  be  fully  ours  in  the  future,  un- 
der the  same  management  or  control,  so- 
far  as  its  editorial  department  is  con- 
cerned, as  it  has  been  in  the  past.  "We 
are  well  agreed,  I  believe,  all  that  have 
heard  the  subject  mooted,  that  it  is  very 
desirable  that  the  organ  should  belong 
to  us,  that  we  should  own  it,  if  we  are 
able  to  make  the  terms  to  suit  President 
Cannon,  and  I  have  no  doubt  we  can. 
There  are  120,000  people  who  are  work- 
ers, teachers  or  pupils,  in  this  organiza- 
tion; that  is,  about  one-third  of  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  included  in  this 
great  movement.    It  has  its  branches 
and  departments  in  every  ward  and  in 
every  mission  everywhere— except  the 
cottages,  and  now  the  proposition  is  to 
take  it  into  the  cottages,  that  is,  to  the 
homes  of  the  people— some  of  their 
homes— so  that  the  Sunday  school  is  so 
accommodating  that  if  you  cannot  go 
to  the  Sunday  school,  we'll  take  the 
Sunday  school  to  you,  just  as  has  been 
done  with  conferences.  The  general  con- 
ferences, stake  conferences,  ward  con- 
ferences, and  all  other  kinds  of  confer- 
ences among  the  people    are  taken 
to      the      people      in      order  that 
all    the    people    may    be  benefited. 
And    in    the    Sunday    school    is  em- 
braced     all      mutual  improvement 
work,  all  the  primary  classes,  all  the 
religion  class  members,   everybody  is 
included.    That  is  the  reason  the  house 
is  full  here  tonight.    It  takes  every- 
body in.    And  those  that  it  has  not  al- 
ready taken  in,  it  is  willing  to  take  in 
in  the  future.    We  are  determined  to 
have  it  so  arranged  that  everybody 
shall  be  interested:  that  parents  shall 
be  interested  in  their  children,  by  their 
own  attendance  also,  and  the  benefits 
of  the  Sunday    school  cause  will  be 
found  on  every  hand.    We  bespeak,  as 
we  have  done  in  the  past,  for  the  Sun- 
day schools  the"  right  of  way  (if  that 
is  the  proper  term),  for    the  Sunday 
morning:,    that    all    Sunday  mornings 
shall  be  devoted  to  the  Sunday  school 
cause,  and  that  nothing  shall  interfere, 
or    at    least    as    rarely    as    can  be 
arranged.    President  Cannon  has  been 
as    jealous    for    the    Sunday  School 
Union,  and  more  so,  than  he  ever  has 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


77 


for  the  Juvenile  Instructor.  He  has 
always  stood  up  and  guarded  the  cause, 
and  he  has  been  listened  to,  and  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  general 
authorities,  have  always  been  willing 
that  the  Sunday  schools  should  have 
the  Sunday  morning,  and  then  other 
times  for  conferences,  such  as  are  need- 
ed, so  that  every  encouragement  is 
given  that  can  be  given  by  the  general 
authorities.  I  believe,  too,  that  the 
Bishops  are  very  attentive  as  a  rule  to 
the  Sunday  schools.  We  hear  of  noth- 
ing hardly  placed  in  the  way  of  the 
Sunday  school  cause  at  the  present 
time.  Since  the  schools  have  been 
graded  and  departments  established,  we 
do  not  need  auite  as  many  teachers  as 
we  used  to,  and  we  find  the  schools  well 
supplied  with  able  men  and  women.  The 
Sunday  school  is  taken  care  of  very 
much  by  the  single  sisters  in  the 
Church.  They  are  very  devoted  and 
faithful.  I  do  not  know  of  any  class 
of  people  that  can  possibly  be  more  at- 
tentive and  faithful  than  the  young  la- 
dies have  been  throughout  the  Church. 
And  the  young  men  are  laboring,  and 
the  Sunday  school  cause  is  popular  be- 
cause everybody  takes  hold  of  it  and 
gives  it  encouragement. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  There  is  no  one 
that  needs  to  feel  that  the  work  is  not 
great  enough,  good  enough  and  import- 
ant enough  for  his  missionary  service; 
and  we  want,  to  see  the  cause  advocated 
until  every  child  in  Zion  that  belongs 
to  Latter-day  Saint  parents,  and  every 
child  that  is  not  otherwise  occupied  by 
other  people,  in  other  Sunday  schools 
is  welcomed  as  a  scholar  to  our  schools. 
And  our  schools  are  converting.  They 
are  converting  and  they  are  baptizing, 
not  without  the  consent  of  the  parents 
at  all,  but  they  are  baptizing  and  bring- 
ing members  into  this  Church,  and  they 
have  been  doing  it  for  twenty-five 
years.  When  I  was  in  England,  I  re- 
member, quite  a  number  of  people  were 
baptized  in  the  Nottingham  branch, 
through  the  Sunday  schools;  and  this 
cause  is  accomplishing  a  wonderful 
work  in  Zion.  It  is  accomplishing  a 
wonderful  work  throughout  the  world; 
and  there  is  no  people,  I  think  I  may 
safely  say,  that  has  made  the  start, 


and  that  are  so  firmly  and  fully  estab- 
lished in  the  Sunday  school  cause  as  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  think  there  is 
nothing  in  the  world  to  compare  with 
it.  We  challenge  the  world  to  show  us 
anything  to  compare  with  what 
we  have  accomplished.  May  the  Lord 
bless  and  sustain  us  in  the  future  as  He 
has  done  in  the  past,  that  our  cause 
may  be  altogether  successful. 

President  Smith  wants  to  know  if  I 
want  to  say  something  in  regard  to  sec- 
ular songs  in  the  Sunday  school.  I  have 
never  heard  of  them,  brethren;  I  have 
never  heard  of  them  in  the  Sunday 
school.  They  do  not  have  them  in  the 
Sunday  school;  and  I  believe  I  never 
heard  of  but  one  sacred  concert  for  the 
benefit  of  Sunday  schools.  And  that  was 
the  last  one;  there  will  never  be  another. 
I  did  hear  a  sacred  concert  proposed  for 
Sunday  evening,  in  order  to  raise  means 
for  the  missionaries  who  were  in  the 
field  abroad.  But  when  it  was  sug- 
gested that  it  would  be  better 
to  hold  it  on  another  night, 
the  brethren  and  sisters  all  took  to  it 
in  a  moment,  and  it  was  well  advertised 
and  made  a  very  great  success,  and 
made  money;  but  it  was  on  Monday 
night  instead  of  Sunday  night.  We  can- 
not be  too  careful  to  instil  into  the 
minds  of  the  young  people  the  sacred- 
ness  of  the  Sabbath  day,  that  it  should 
be  kept  holy,  and  that  they  may  appre- 
ciate the  sacrament  that  the  Lord  has 
commanded  to  be  administered  on  the 
Sabbath  day;  that  they  may  appreciate 
it  and  enjoy  it,  and  realize  the  value  of 
partaking  of  it,  and  keep  the  Sabbath 
day  holy.  That  is  one  of  the  very  im- 
portant parts  of  our  Sunday  school 
work,  and  I  believe  it  is  accomplishing 
its  purpose  in  that  regard.  The  Lord 
bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Lizzie  Thomas-Edwards  sang 
beautifully  the  solo,  "The  Angel's  Call," 
violin  obligato  by  Bro.  Geo.  E.  Skelton 
and  accompaniment  by  Prof.  John  J. 
McClellan. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

At  the  meeting  to  which  Brother 
Summerhays  referred,  a  decision  was 
reached  with  regard  to  the  publication 
of  the  Sunday  school  leaflets  next  year. 
It    was    found    by  the  reports  of  the 


4 


78 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


brethren,  that  the  leaflets  that  we  have 
published  of  late  have  been  so  lengthy, 
so  important,  containing  so  much  mat- 
ter, that  most  of  the  schools  are  a  long 
way  behind,  and  are  not  prepared  to 
take  up  new  ones;  and  consequently  it 
was  decided  that  at  the  end  of  the 
present  year,  when  the  forty  numbers 
promised  on  the  Articles  of 
Faith  are  published,  we  would  cease  for 
a  time  to  publish  any  more  leaflets. 
But  we  have  on  hand  a  large  number 
of  those  already  published,  and  it  was 
suggested  that  they  be  bound  together 
according  to  their  subjects;  that  is, 
those  on  the  Life  of  Christ  be  bound  to- 
gether, those  on  Old  Testament  history 
be  bound  together,  those  on  the  Book 
of  Mormon  be  bound  together,  those  on 
the  Articles  of  Faith  be  bound  together, 
so  that  they  can  be  advantageously 
used  in  the  various  departments  where 
most  suitable  to  the  intellectual  ad- 
vancement of  the  pupils.  I  would  add 
we  have  numbers  still  on  hand  for  sale 
of  nearly  all  the  leaflets  that  nave  been 
published  since  the  commencement. 

Another  subject  of  which,  as  treas- 
urer of  the  Union,  I  wish  to  remind 
the  brethren,  is  that  of  the 
nickel  donation.  You  all  know  that  we 
ask  but  one  nickel  once  a  year  for  the 
Sunday  school  cause,  and  the  day  the 
collection  is  taken  up,  is  the  last  Sun- 
day in  this  month — the  last  Sunday  of 
each  October.  What  I  wish  to  ask  this 
evening  is,  that  treasurers  and  superin- 
tendents who  forward  moneys  to  me 
will  please  do  so  promptly.  Last  year's 
donation  I  have  had  dribbling  in  until 
two  or  three  weeks  ago,  when  I  received 
another  remittance  on  last  year's  ac- 
count. As  you  are  aware,  the  Sunday 
schools  are  increasing  in  numbers,  and 
the  total  number  of  teachers  and  pupils 
is  also  increasing  at  a  rapid  rate.  This 
means  that  our  expenses  are  increas- 
ing. Therefore,  it  is  very  desirable  that 
the  funds  collected  should  not  be  .scat- 
tered all  over  the  country,  but  be  in 
the  hands  of  the  treasurer  for  the 
necessary  expenses  for  which  the  nickel 
fund  is  used.  Those  brethren  who  do 
not  send  in  all  they  have  collected  be- 
fore the  Convention— which,  I  take  It, 
will  be  the  greater  portion — may  bring 
or  send  it  in  at  the  time  of  our  conven- 
tion at  the  middle  of  November. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

I  would  not  like  to  let  this  subject 
of  the  leaflets  pass  without  making 
some  remarks  upon  them.  I  consider 
the  leaflets  the  finest  kind  of  literature 
for  our  children.  The  only  objection— 
if  it  can  be  called  an  objection— that  I 
have  heard  mentioned  in  connection 
with  them,  is  that  they  are  not  graded, 
and  that  they  are  too  long  for  one  Sun- 
day's exercises.  But  I  have  been  great- 
ly impressed  with  their  value.  They 
contain  an  amount  of  information  in  a 
condensed  space  that  must  be  of  ex- 
ceeding value  to  everyone  who  is  a  stu- 
dent. "When  speaking  of  students,  I 
may  include  all  who  are  pupils 
in  our  Sunday  schools  up  to  the  mature 
man.  I  consider  them  excellent,  and 
they  should  be  read,  and  they  should  be 
taught  to  our  children.  We  have  con- 
cluded to  suspend  the  further  publica- 
tion of  them  for  the  time  being-  in  order 
that  the  schools  may  catch  up,  that  we 
may  not  have  a  mass  of  literature  on 
our  hands  that  is  not  used  and  waste 
our  means  in  that  way.  I  think  this  is 
a  subject  that  ought  to  receive  the  at- 
tention of  all  the  superintendents;  and 
if  there  are  leaflets  on  hand  in  any 
Sunday  school  they  should  be  used,  and 
the  classes  given  the  instructions  that 
are  contained  in  the  leaflets.  There  is 
a  great  deal  of  information  to  be  gained 
from  them,  and  I  am  sure  they  will  be 
valuable  not  only  to  the  children  of  the 
Sunday  school  but  to  all  who  will  de- 
vote time  to  their  perusal. 

Now  in  regard  to  the  "Nickel"  fund  I 
may  say  that  I  have  been,  from  the 
very  beginning,  opposed  to  levying  any 
serious  burden  on  Sunday  schools,  and 
it  was  a  long  time  before  my  consent 
could  be  obtained  to  even  making  a 
nickel  donation,  for  I  hoped  that  we 
would  be  able  to  sustain  our  Sunday 
schools  without  anything  of  that  kind. 
Hut  the  necessity  for  some  funds  to  do 
work  that  we  thought  necessary  for 
the  schools  and  for  their  advancement 
compelled  us  to  take  into  consideration 
the  idea  of  making  a  small  collection 
such  as  a  nickel  once  a  year,  and  I  do 
hope  that  all  the  superintendents  will 
appreciate  the  spirit  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  board  in  this  respect,  and 
will  at  least  do  their  part  in  bringing 
about   and   in   collecting     this  small 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


79 


amount  at  the  time  that  is  appointed. 
You  may  depend  upon  it  that  every 
cent  is  used  in  the  most  economical  and 
careful  manner. 

A  question  has  been  presented  to  us, 
sent  up  to  the  stand,  of  this  character: 
"There  are  children  who  attend  our 
Sunday  schools  whose  parents  are  op- 
posed to  the  children  being-  baptized 
although  the  children  desire  to  be  bap- 
tized. They  have  refused  their  con- 
sent to  the  present  time,  and  the  ques- 
tion is  asked,  What  shall  be  done  with 
those  children  in  administering  the 
Sacrament?  Shall  they  be  deprived  of 
the  Sacrament  because  of  their  non- 
baptism.  We  have  considered  this 
question,  and  President  Smith  and 
Brother  Lyman  and  myself  being  now 
on  the  stand  here,  have  decid- 
ed that  children  who  are  desirous  to 
be  baptized  and  who  are  prevented  by 
those  who  have,  them  in  charge,  their 
parents  or  guardians,  from  complying 
with  this  ordinance,  that  they  should 
have  the  sacrament  administered  to 
them;  and  this  will  apply  to  all  cases 
of  this  kind  in  our  Sunday  schools. 
Where  the  children— mark  you,  I  want 
you  to  mark  this — where  the  children 
are  desirous  to  obey  this  law  and  are 
prevented  from  doing  so,  that  they  shall 
receive  the  Sacrament  or  have  it  ad- 
ministered to  them. 

Now  I  would  like  to  make  a  few  re- 
marks upon  another  subject  that  has 
been  mentioned  here,  the  "Juvenile  In- 
structor." You  have  heard  from  Brother 
Summerhays  concerning  it.  When  I 
was  spoken  to  the  other  evening  in  re- 
lation to  this,  I  expressed  myself,  after 
I  had  heard  a  good  many  remarks,  as 
favorable  to  the  sale  to  the  Sunday 
School  Union.  I  have  felt  for  some  time 
that  this  would  probably  be  a  better  ar- 
rangement. I  have,  I  may  say,  looked 
upon  the  Juvenile  Instructor  as  a 
pet.  It  is  the  only  publication  that 
has  existed  for  the  long  time  in  the 
Church  that  it  has,  that  has  not  re- 
ceived support  outside  of  its  subscrip- 
tion. The  means  it  has  required  to 
sustain  it  have  come  out  of  my  private 
funds.  I  have  published  it  now  for 
thirty-five  years.  It  is  the  oldest  publi- 
cation now  existing  in  the  Church  ex- 
cepting the  Millennial  Star  and  the 
Deseret  News  It  has  been  a  labor  of  love 
Willi  me,  because  I  have  felt  that  it  was 


identified  with  the  Sunday  school  cause; 
and  at  the  commencement  of  its  publi- 
cation I  felt  (I  had  just  returned 
from  long  missions  I  had  filled)  that 
there  was  a  great  field  in  our  State  for 
the  improvement  of  our  little  children 
in  the  organization  of  Sunday  schools 
among  them,  and  the  Juvenile  In- 
structor has  done  its  part,  no 
doubt,  in  maintaining  this  idea  and 
contributing  to  the  success  of  the  Sun- 
day schools,  and  I  feel  that  there  is  a 
great  mission  yet  for  it  to  perform.  I 
am  willing,  under  the  circumstances, 
that  it  should  go  as  the  brethren  desire. 
It  has  been  remarked,  so  I  have  been 
told,  that  it  is  a  private  institution. 
Well,  it  has  been.  Fortunately  it  has 
been  so.  It  could  not  have  lived  if  it 
had  not  been  sustained  by  private 
funds.  There  have  been  many  times 
during  the  thirty-five  years  that 
have  passed  that  its  publication  could 
not  have  continued  without  such  aid. 
Other  magazines  have  tried  and  have 
failed  because  of  causes  which,  if  they 
had  operated  upon  it,  would  have 
caused  it  to  be  suspended.  I  was  very 
glad,  indeed,  to  feel  the  spirit 
that  was  manifested  the  other 
evening  in  relation  to  this  before 
I  expressed  myself  in  that  meeting 
—  expressed  my  willingness  to 
have  the  publication  transferred.  I 
thought  these  few  words  from  me  were 
due  this  assembly  this  evening. 

Before  sitting  down,  there  is  another 
subject  that  I  think  has  been  touched 
upon  by  Brother  Lyman  and  others  in 
relation  to  the  Sabbath  day,  that  I  wish 
to  say  a  word  upon.    Brethren  and  sis- 
ters, we  ought,  with  all  our  energies, 
with  all  the  powers  we  have,  to  en- 
deavor to  have  our  children,  and  the 
rising  generation  among  us,  respect  the 
Sabbath  day.    I  was  greatly  pleased  in 
Canada  to  find  how  strict  they  were  in 
enforcing  the  law  against  violators  of 
the  Sabbath.   I  feel  that  there  ought  to 
be  some  ordinance,  or  some  rule  or  law 
put  in  force  that  will  stop  these  public 
and  private  violations  of  the  Sabbath 
day.  Its    desecration    is    shocking  to 
the     sense     of     those     who  believe 
in  the  sacredness    of    that    day,  and 
who  believe    that    God    has  actually 
commanded     us     to     meet  together 
and      make      our    offerings    on  that 
day,  to  keep  it  holy  and  to  avoid,  as 


8i 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


much  as  possible,  all  kinds  of  work  on 
that  holy  day.  Even  cooking  and  house- 
hold work,  all  such  labor,  ought  to  be 
as  much  as  possible  lessened.  For  many 
years  in  my  own  family,  it  was  agreed 
that  we  would  do  nothing  on  the 
Sabbath  day  that  could  be  avoid- 
ed, and  we  provided  beforehand  our 
food,  so  that  we  would  not  be  under 
the  necessity  of  breaking  the  Sabbath  in 
cooking  it.  I  believe  that  is  a  good  rule. 
And  we  should  not  allow,  if  we  can 
prevent  it.  the  gangs  of  young  men  and 
boys  that  we  see  around  the  street  cor- 
ners on  the  Sabbath  evenings. 
Let  us,  as  a  united  people,  as 
united  Sunday  school  workers,  use  our 
personal  influence  to  check  this  tenden- 
cy that  is  so  painfully  apparent  among 
us.  We  are  a  religious  people,  and 
when  we  contrast  Salt  Lake  City  in 
these  respects  with  the  manner  in 
which  the  Sabbath  is  observed  in  com- 
munities that  do  not  make  the  profes- 
sions that  we  do,  it  brings  the  blush 
of  shame  to  us  to  see  how  much  behind 
we  are  in  this  respect;  and  I  hope  that 
our  united  influence  will  be  used  in  the 
right  direction,  to  check  these  viola- 
tions of  the  holy  day  that  God  has  set 
apart  for  worship  and  for  the  rest 
of  His  people. 

APOSTLE  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

There  is  always  a  question  as  to  what 
are  the  best  means  to  raise  money,  to 
meet  the  local  expenses  of  our  Sab- 
bath schools.  Sometimes  we  have  had 
a  committee  go  round  to  beg,  to  ask 
for  contributions  for  the  Sabbath 
school.  Now  I  have  found  that  the  way 
that  gave  the  greatest  amount  of  sat- 
isfaction and  did  most  to  develop  the 
talent  that  we  have  in  our  Sunday 
schools,  was  to  give  an  entertainment, 
inviting  the  parents,  and  the  people 
generally,  to  attend,  and  charging  so 
much  admission,  giving  them  the  worth 
of  their  money  in  the  entertainment 
that  was  provided.  It  is  not  very  pleas- 
ant to  ask  our  teachers  in  the  Sunday 
school  to  go  around  and  beg,  to  take  up 
a  subscription  or  anything  of  that  kind. 
It  gives  a  great  deal  more  satisfaction 
when  we  h  fr.-e  one  of  the  best  enter- 
tainments that  we  can  get.  I  am  re- 
minded now  of  the  sacramental  set  that 
was  presented  to  the  North  ward  of 
Nenhi  by  the  Primary  association.  It 
had  upon  it:  "Presented  by  the  Primary 
Association."  The  means  was  raised 
bv  entertainments.  People  were  well 
naid  that  attended  those  entertain- 
ments, and  had  an  opportunity  of  de- 
veloping the  talent  that  was  in  the 
Primary  association.  I  thought  of  this 
while  nve  were  speaking  upon  having 
Sunday  evening  concerts.  It  had  been 
suggested,  some  one  reported,  at  one 


of  our  metings,  that  they  have  a  Sun- 
day school  concert  and  pay  so  much  for 
admittance.  There  is  no  occasion  for 
anything  of  the  kind.  I  think  our  chil- 
dren should  be  taught  that  the  Sab- 
bath is  the  day  of  rest  and  recuperation 
If  we  could  only  understand  this  we 
would  find  there  was  philosophy  in  do- 
ing as  little  as  we  possibly  could  on 
the  Sabbath  day.  I  have  heard  of  con- 
tractors in  building  railroads  and  hav. 
ing  a  great  many  teams,  making  them 
work  every  day,  Sunday  included,  and 
they  found  that  they  made  a  mistake, 
that  they  could  do  more  by  resting  on 
the  Sabbath  day.  Every  principle  of 
the  GosDel  is  a  natural  principle,  and 
it  is  natural  we  should  rest  one  day  in 
seven.  We  would  live  longer,  feel  hap- 
pier and  brighter,  if  we  would  only  lis- 
ten to  the  kindly  suggestions  that  we 
call  the  commandments  of  our  beloved 
Father  in  heaven. 

ELDER  J.  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

The  committee  on  convention  would 
like  to  give  notice  to  the  Stake  surjer- 
intendencics  that  they  would  like  them 
to  report  immediately  to  our  general 
scretary  in  regard  to  the  number  of 
delegates  they  expect  to  send  to  our 
coming  convention.  We  would  also  like 
to  say  to  the  superintendents  of  Sun- 
day schools,  that  we  expect  you  to 
send  two  delegates  from  each  school,  at 
least.  We  would  like  this  information 
immediately — within  the  next  two 
weeks.  You  can  imagine  what  would 
be  the  result  if  we  provided  for  two 
delr^ates  from  each  school  and  you 
sent  us  four.  Our  committee  on  en- 
tertainment would  simply  be  over- 
whelmed, and  therefore  we  would  like 
this  information  right  away.  The  date 
of  our  convention  is  the  12th  and  13th 
of  November. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

There  has  not  been  so  much  traveling 
backward  and  forward  in  the  galleries 
this  evening:  as  I  have  sometimes  wit- 
nessed, but  I  think  there  has  been  en- 
tirely too  much,  and  it  is  a  very  great 
breach  of  good  manners  for  people  to 
come  to  meetings  of  this  kind  and  be 
traveling  backward  and  forward  and  be 
disturbing  those  who  have  come  to  hear 
and  enjoy;  and  I  hope  that  in  our  fu- 
ture meetings  our  ushers  will  take  the 
necessary  steps  to  prevent  this  conduct. 

The  choir  then  sang,  "From  afar 
gracious  Lord  Thou  didst  gather  Thy 
flock." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Brigham  Young. 

HORACE  S.  ENSIGN, 
F.  E.  BARKER,  Gen.  Sec'y- 

Reporter. 


New 

Publications 


NOW  ON  SALE 
BY  THE 


Deseret  News. 


RISE  AND  FALL  OF  NAUVOO, 


By  B.  H.  Roberts.  Ready  November  10th. 
Cloth,  $1.25. 


MISSOURI  PERSECUTIONS, 

By  B.  H.  Roberts.   Cloth,  $l.£k 

SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING 
AND  THE  DEAD, 


1  Liberality  of  the  Mormon  Faith),  by  Charles  W. 
Penrose,  a  pamphlet  of  13  pages.    Priee  3  cents! 

2  for  5  cents. 


LIFE  OF  A  PIONEER* 


By  Capt.  James  S.  Brown,  520  pages,  bound  in 
cloth.    Price  $2.00. 


THE  GREAT  SALT  LAKE, 


116  pages,  embossed  Princess  covers,  by  Dr.  James 
E.  Taimage.    Price  25  cents. 


LIFE  OF  D.  V.  PATTEN, 


By  L.  A.  Wilson,  7*  pages,  bound  in  board.  Price 
20  cents. 

AND  "THE 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH." 

Written  by  appointment  by  Dr.  James  15.  Talmage. 
Cloth  $1.00,  leather  $1  50,  Morocco.  f2.50> 

SPECIAL  DISCOUNTS  TO  DEALERS  AND  AGENTS, 


TO  MISSIONARIES: 


To  aid  Missionaries  in 
their  fields  of  labor  the 

Semi- Weekly 
News 

Will  be  sent  to  subscrib- 
ers sent  in  by  them  at 

ONE  DOLLAR  A  YEAR. 

This  offer  applies  only  to  sub- 
scribers in  the  missionary  field. 


