Om.  diundhsd.  Jwsdflih, 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

conffflct 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

Odtob&h  3,  4, 5, 1W 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

MINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OP  AMERICA 


■99 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JJul  &doL  jd£.  TftovnotL 

The  latest  edition  comas  to  you  in  four  different  binding*.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  game. 

Missionary  Edition  50c — by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed  $1.50 

Full  Morocco   $3.50 

J>AojfL  fibwJboi^  to  (p/wph&L 

AND 

TTLoIAca,  StoJiisA.  J-Ajojtl  iha  Hook  ofc  7ft&inwtL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth.  .$1.25 

JOuf.  io  Jlvwfajgjf 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

dU&ioty.  t>HL  JthsL  gAuAcL 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 
For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Twelfth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Twelfth  Semi  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  3,  4,  and  5, 
1941. 

The  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  to  capaci- 
ty at  each  session  of  the  Conference. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  the 
entire  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  were  broadcast  for  the  benefit 
of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  though  convalescing  from  a  recent  seri- 
ous illness,  was  present  at  the  Friday  morning,  Saturday  morning  and 
Sunday  afternoon  sessions.  President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services  at  all  the  general 
sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill, 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  and  Harold 
B.  Lee. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas 
G.  Smith.  . 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  Richard 
L.  Evans,  and  Oscar  A.  Kirkham.* 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:    Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants,:    Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 
Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 
Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 
Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 

*Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death 
of  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  High  Priests,  Sev- 
enties, Elders ;  General,  Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  the  Auxiliary  As- 
sociations, from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  John  H.  Taylor,  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  New  England;  Nicholas  G.  Smith, 
Northwestern  States.  All  other  Mission  Presidents  were  excused  from 
attendance  at  this  Conference,  having  been  requested  to  remain  in  their 
various  mission  fields. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning, 
October  3,  at  10  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  services. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  combined  choruses 
of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  Bonneville,  Cottonwood,  Emi- 
gration, Ensign,  Highland,  and  Wells  Stakes.  Brother  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant,  who  is  presiding  on  this  occasion, 
and  also  President  Clark,  I  now  announce  the  opening  of  the  112th  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  know  that  I  express  your  feelings  and  the  loving  sentiments  of  the 
entire  Church  when  I  say  that  we  are  thankful  and  grateful  that  President 
Grant  has  sufficiently  recovered  from  his  recent  illness  to  be  present  at 
this  Conference. 

All  official  meetings  are  announced  in  the  Conference  Folder.  Copies 
of  the  Folder  are  obtainable  at  the  Tabernacle  entrances,  and  all  persons 
interested  are  requested  to  provide  themselves  with  a  copy  and  become 
acquainted  with  the  announcements  therein  contained. 

Notice  of  all  unofficial  gatherings  will  be  given  in  the  Deseret  News. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL,  the  proceedings  of 
this  Conference  are  being  broadcast.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore, 
to  make  some  announcements  which  to  you  who  are  present  might  seem 
unimportant  or  non-essential. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  President  Grant  and 
his  two  Counselors,  all  the  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  all 
the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  six  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and 
all  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


PRESIDENT  DAY ID  O.  McKAY 


3 


The  combined  choruses  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O 
Ye  Mountains  High" — Penrose. 

Elder  J.  Emmett  Bird,  President  of  the  Kolob  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  combined  choruses  of  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang 
"Holiness  Becometh  the  House  of  the  Lord" — Evan  Stephens.  (Ar- 
ranged for  Singing  Mothers  by  Wade  N.  Stephens)  Director :  Josephine 
Brower  of  the  Wells  Stake. 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST 
APRIL  CONFERENCE— 1941 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  for  the  in- 
formation of  the  Conference  the  following  report  of  changes : 

Special  Appointments : 

Hugh  B.  Brown,  appointed  Religious  Coordinator  of  military  camps, 
with  headquarters  in  California. 

Marion  G.  Romney,  one  of  the  five  Assistants  to  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  appointed  Assistant  Managing  Director  of  the 
Church  Welfare  Plan. 

J.  Karl  Wood,  principal  of  the  seminary  at  Hyrum,  Utah,  appointed 
Supervisor  of  the  Church  Seminary  system. 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

Ernest  C.  Rossiter,  manager  of  Temple  Square  Hotel,  appointed 
to  succeed  Eugene  M.  Cannon  as  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission. 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  second  counselor  in  Granite  Stake  Presidency, 
appointed  to  succeed  President  W.  W.  Seegmiller  of  the  Western  States 
Mission. 

William  L.  Warner  of  Richfield,  Utah,  member  of  Sevier  Stake 
Presidency,  appointed  to  succeed  President  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  of 
the  Texas  Mission. 

Walter  Miller  of  Taber,  Alberta,  Canada,  appointed  to  preside  over 
the  newly-formed  Western  Canadian  Mission,  with  headquarters  at 
Edmonton,  Alberta.  President  Miller  is  under  the  supervision  of  the 
presidents  of  Alberta,  Lethbridge,  and  Taylor  Stakes. 

New  Stake  Organised : 

The  South  Salt  Lake  Stake  was  organized  August  31,  1941,  by  a 
division  of  Wells  and  Grant  Stakes,  and  consists  of  Burton,  Columbus, 
Central  Park,  Eldredge,  Southgate,  and  Miller  wards.  The  Wells 
Stake  is  now  composed  of  Belvedere,  Ivins,  Jefferson,  McKay,  McKinley, 
Waterloo,  Wells,  and  Whittier  Wards.  The  Grant  Stake  is  now  com- 
posed of  East  Mill  Creek,  Grandview,  Hillcrest,  Wandamere,  Wilford, 
and  Springview  Wards. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

William  A.  Pettit  chosen  president  of  the  Pasadena  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed President  Bertram  M.  Jones. 

Claudius  Brown  chosen  president  of  the  Twin  Falls  Stake,  to  sue-  ■ 
ceed  President  Jesse  W.  Richins. 

Christian  Call  chosen  president  of  the  Idaho  Stake,  to  succeed  Presi- 
dent Alonzo  J.  Gilbert. 

Dermont  Madsen  chosen  president  of  the  Moroni  Stake,  to  succeed 
President  Joseph  R.  Christiansen. 

Axel  J.  Andresen  chosen  president  of  the  newly-organized  South 
Salt  Lake  Stake. 

Owen  G.  Reichman  chosen  president  of  the  Bonneville  Stake,  to 
succeed  President  Marion  G.  Romney. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

St.  Anthony  Third  Ward,  Yellowstone  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  St.  Anthony  First  Ward. 

San  Bernardino  Second  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formed  by 
a  division  of  the  San  Bernardino  Ward  and  from  the  Colton  Branch. 

Bonneville  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Yale  and  Yalecrest  Wards. 

Springview  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Wandamere  Ward. 

Eldredge  Ward,  South  Salt  Lake  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Miller  Ward. 

Capitol  Ward,  Washington  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Washington  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Homedale  Ward,  Nampa  Stake,  formerly  Homedale  Branch. 

San  Bernardino  Second  Ward,  formerly  Colton  Branch  and  part 
of  San  Bernardino  Ward. 

Ivins  Ward,  St.  George  Stake,  formerly  Ivins  Branch. 

Flagstaff  Ward,  Snowflake  Stake,  formerly  Flagstaff  Branch. 

La  Cienega  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  formerly  La  Cienega  Branch. 

Rockport  Ward,  Summit  Stake,  formerly  Rockport  Branch. 

Everett  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  Everett  Branch. 

New  Independent  Branches : 

Canal  Zone  Branch,  independent  of  any  stake  or  mission,  to  be 
accountable  directly  to  Church  headquarters  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Hawthorne  Branch,  Reno  Stake. 

Ward  Disorganised : 

Rosette  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake,  merged  with  Park  Valley  Ward 
— new  unit  to  be  known  as  the  Park  Valley  Ward. 

Ward  Transferred: 

Papago  Ward  transferred  from  Phoenix  Stake  to  Maricopa  Stake. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


5 


Ward  Name  Changed: 

San  Bernardino  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  name  changed  to 
San  Bernardino  First  Ward. 

Branch  Name  Changed: 

Snake  Valley  Branch,  Nevada  Stake,  name  changed  to  Garrison 
Branch. 

Obituary ; 

Rulon  S.  Wells,  senior  president  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
member  of  the  Council  of  Seventy  for  48  years,  former  European 
Mission  President,  and  member  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Y.  M.  M. 
I.  A.  for  29  years,  died  May  7,  1941. 

John  Wells,  counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric  for  20  years, 
died  April  18,  1941. 

B.  Cecil  Gates,  Church  music  composer,  conductor,  and  director, 
former  member  of  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  General  Board  and  of  the  Church 
General  Music  Committee,  died  August  29,  1941. 

Alfred  Cornelius  Rees,  member  of  the  General  Board  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union,  and  former  president  of  the  East  German 
Mission,  died  July  26,  1941. 

Mrs.  Stringham  Stevens  (Beatrice  Farley  Stevens),  member  of  the 
General  Board  of  the  National  Woman's  Relief  Society  since  1937, 
chairman  of  the  Society's  music  committee,  and  also  active  in  M.  I.  A. 
and  Primary  work,  died  June  19,  1941. 

Mrs.  Isaac  Brockbank  (Mary  Park  Brockbank),  98  years  old,  be- 
lieved to  be  the  last  surviving  pioneer  of  1847,  died  August  18,  1941. 

L.  A.  Ramsey,  noted  Utah  artist,  who  has  painted  a  number  of 
religious  portraits  and  subjects  for  the  Church,  died  May  11,  1941. 
Fourteen  of  his  portraits  now  hang  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple. 

Bishops  who  have  passed  away  while  in  the  service : 

Bishop  J.  Alma  Smith  of  the  Bridgeland  Ward,  Duchesne  Stake, 
died  March  28,  1941,  after  having  served  2y2  years. 

Bishop  John  O.  Smith  of  the  Malta  Ward,  Raft  River  Stake,  died 
April  28,  1941,  after  having  served  Ay2  years. 

Bishop  Milton  Bodell,  Herriman  Ward,  West  Jordan  Stake,  died 
June  18,  1941,  after  having  served  five  years. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

With  gratification  to  our  Father  in  Heaven  for  the  preservation  of 
the  life  of  our  beloved  President,  it  is  now  my  supreme  joy  to  announce 
our  next  speaker,  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Dag 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  shall  not  speak  loud,  I  would  like  the  people  at  the  rear  of  the 
room,  if  they  are  hearing  me  now,  to  raise  their  hands.  (Many  hands 
were  raised.)    Thank  you. 

EXPLAINS  CONDITION  OF  HEALTH 

The  doctor  gave  me  only  twenty  minutes,  but  I  have  concluded  to 
take  a  lot  more  than  twenty  minutes.  By  not  speaking  loud  I  do  not 
believe  it  will  hurt  me ;  I  hope  not  at  least. 

I  have  been  asked  for  a  year  and  a  half,  in  fact  a  little  longer  than 
that,  "How  do  you  feel?"  I  have  said,  "Better  than  yesterday,"  and  I 
believe  it  is  true,  but  the  improvement  has  been  limited,  and  I  am  not 
yet  in  good  health.  Judging  from  the  newspapers  one  would  think  I 
was  in  first  class  condition,  but  they  overdid  it. 

I  am  very,  very  happy  to  be  here  this  moirning,  grateful  beyond  my 
power  of  expression  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  when  I  realize  that 
I  could  not  move  my  left  arm  at  all,  nor  my  left  leg;  that  I  could  not 
possibly  touch  my  chin  with  my  fingers ;  that  one  of  my  eyes  was  crooked ; 
and  that  my  mouth  was  twisted.  I  feel  very  happy  that  I  look  quite 
natural,  in  fact  I  think  I  look  better  than  I  am. 

I  thought  I  was  better  than  I  am,  and  the  doctor  had  only  allowed 
me  two  hours  a  day.  I  spent  four  hours  and  twenty  minutes  one  day, 
and  I  felt  so  fine  that  after  dinner  I  went  down  to  the  doctor's  office  to 
insist  on  having  four  hours  a  day,  only  to  be  sent  home  and  sent  to  bed. 
He  discovered  that  my  blood  pressure  had  gone  out  of  sight,  and  so  I 
have  not  tried  to  fool  him  since.  However,  I  am  glad  to  say  that  he  has 
now  given  me  two  and  a  half  hours  a  day  instead  of  two,  to  attend  to  the 
duties  that  devolve  upon  me. 

I  went  to  the  wonderful  banquet  that  was  held  in  Provo  for  fifty- 
year  students  at  the  Brigham  Young  University,  and  it  lasted  over  three 
hours.  I  did  not  get  to  sleep  until  along  about  one  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing. Then  I  attended  the  Commencement  exercises  which  lasted  another 
three  hours  the  following  day.  I  tried  my  best  to  go  to  sleep  in  the  back 
seat  of  a  car  while  driving  from  Provo  to  Salt  Lake,  and  failed.  The 
following  day  I  got  a  sentence  of  ten  days  in  bed.  So  I  am  not  looking 
for  a  sentence  today.  The  doctor  told  me  that  he  thought  twenty  min- 
utes should  be  my  limit,  and  that  I  ought  to  go  to  one  meeting  a  day 
only  during  this  Conference.  I  telephoned  to  him  this  morning  that  I 
had  had  a  very  strenuous  day  yesterday,  but  I  had  had  a  wonderfully 
good  night  last  night,  and  I  wanted  more  than  twenty  minutes. 

He  said:  "I  will  come  to  your  house  at  twelve  o'clock  today  to  see 
how  you  are.   I  am  not  going  to  take  a  chance." 

A  SERMON  DELIVERED  IN  THE  PAST 

Instead  of  trying  to  prepare  a  sermon  I  have  decided,  as  Brother 
Preston  Nibley  gave  me  on  the  first  Sunday  of  September  his  book, 
Presidents  of  the  Church,  which  he  has  just  published, — he  told  me  this 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


was  the  first  copy  off  the  press — to  read  something  from  it.  I  have  read 
it  through  since  then ;  that  is,  I  have  read  part  of  it,  and  had  my  family 
read  the  rest  to  me.  I  am  very  pleased  with  the  book,  and  I  find  there 
are  several  long-winded  talks  of  mine  in  it.  I  have  decided  that  the  talk 
which  I  made  when  I  became  the  President  of  the  Church  is  as  good, 
if  not  better,  than  I  can  possibly  make  in  my  present  condition  of  health, 
so  I  am  going  to  read  from  that,  and  I  am  going  to  read  slowly ;  I  am 
not  going  to  read  loudly,  and  if  the  people  in  any  part  of  the  house  are 
not  hearing  me  I  wish  they  would  raise  their  hands,  and  I  shall  try  to 
raise  my  voice  a  little,  but  not  very  much. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITHES  BLESSING 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  as  you  know  died  on  November  19,  1918, 
and  the  night  that  he  died  I  visited  him.  His  hand  was  strong,  and  he 
shook  hands  with  me  vigorously  and  freely  and  made  the  following 
statement : 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless  you,  you  have  a 
great  responsibility.  Always  remember  this  is  the  Lord's  work,  and 
not  man's. 

I  wish  to  the  Lord  that  all  the  people  would  remember  that,  who 
are  members  of  the  Church,  and  try  to  seek  the  Lord  first  and  not  some- 
thing else. 

The  Lord  is  greater  than  any  man.    He  knows  who  he  wants  to 
lead  his  Church  and  never  makes  any  mistake.   The  Lord  bless  you. 

These  are  the  last  words  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  spoke  to  anybody. 

PLEDGES  MADE  IN  FIRST  ADDRESS 

In  my  first  address  I  said : 

I  feel  humble  beyond  any  language  with  which  God  has  endowed 
me  to  express  it,  in  standing  before  you  here  this  morning,  occupy- 
ing the  position  in  which  you  have  just  voted  to  sustain  me.  I  recall 
standing  before  an  audience  in  Tooele,  after  having  been  sustained 
as  president  of  that  Stake  when  I  was  a  young  man  23  years  of  age, 
pledging  to  that  audience  the  best  that  was  in  me.  I  stand  here  today 
in  all  humility,  acknowledging  my  own  weakness,  my  own  lack  of  wis- 
dom and  information,  and  my  lack  of  ability  to  occupy  the  exalted 
position  in  which  you  have  voted  to  sustain  me.  But  as  I  said  as  a 
boy  in  Tooele,  I  say  here  today,  that  by  and  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord,  I  shall  do  the  best  that  I  can  to  fulfill  every  obligation  that 
shall  rest  upon  me  as  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  the  full  extent  of  my  ability. 

I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  liberal  with  his  means  than  I  am 
with  mine,  in  proportion  to  what  he  possesses,  for  the  advancement 
of  God's  Kingdom.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom any  more  closely  than  I  will  observe  it.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  be 
any  more  conscientious  and  prompt  in  the  payment  of  his  tithes  and 
his  offerings  than  I  will  be.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  willing  to 
come  early  and  go  late,  and  to  labor  with  full  power  of  mind  and 
body,  than  I  will  labor,  always  in  humility.    I  hope  and  pray  for  the 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

blessings  of  the  Lord,  acknowledging  freely  and  frankly  that  with- 
out the  Lord's  blessings  it  will  be  an  impossibility  for  me  to  make  a 
success  of  the  high  calling  whereunto  I  have  been  called.  But,  like 
Nephi  of  old,  I  know  the  Lord  makes  no  requirement  of  the  children 
of  men  save  He  will  prepare  a  way  for  them,  whereby  they  can  ac- 
complish the  thing  which  he  has  required.  With  this  knowledge  in 
my  heart  I  accept  the  great  responsibility  without  fear  of  the  con- 
sequences, knowing  that  God  will  sustain  me  as  He  has  sustained  all 
of  my  predecessors  who  have  occupied  this  position,  provided  always, 
that  I  shall  labor  in  humility  and  in  diligence,  ever  seeking  for  the 
guidance  of  His  Holy  Spirit;  and  this  I  shall  endeavor  to  do. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOOD  WILL  EXISTING 

I  think  that  we  as  a  people  have  very  great  cause  to  rejoice  in 
the  era  of  good  will  and  fellowship  that  is  existing  towards  us  as  a 
people  among  those  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  in  comparison  with  the 
conditions  that  existed  some  years  ago.  I  do  not  know  of  any  single 
thing  that  has  happened  in  my  experience  during  the  long  time  that 
I  have  been  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  [46  years 
at  that  time]  that  has  impressed  me  more  profoundly  with  the  change 
in  sentiment  towards  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  the  reception  that 
was  accorded  to  me  December  last  when  I  went  to  Kansas  City  and 
delivered  a  speech  upon  the  accomplishments  of  Mormonism.  When 
I  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  in  the  leading  hotel  in  that  wonderful  and 
progressive  city  ...  I  was  permitted  to  stand  up  within  ten  miles  of 
Independence,  the  place  from  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  ex- 
pelled, by  an  expulsion  and  exterminating  order  of  the  governor  of 
the  State,  Governor  Boggs,  and  to  proclaim  the  accomplishments  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints;  to  relate  the  prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith,  to 
give  to  those  men  that  were  there  assembled — over  300  of  the  leading 
influential  business  men  of  the  city — the  testimony  of  Josiah  Quincy 
regarding  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — 


KANSAS  CITY  SPEECH 

You  are  all  aware  of  that  wonderful  testimony  to  the  effect  that  of 
all  the  men  whom  he  had  ever  met,  the  Prophet  was  one  of  the  greatest, 
etc.  It  takes  over  a  page  arid  a  half  to  relate  it,  so  I  shall  not  read  any 
part  of  it. 

To  repeat  to  them  the  great  pioneer  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints;"  to  relate  the  hardships,  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  have  that  body  of  representative  men 
receive  that  address  with  approval,  applaud  it  in  many  places,  and 
many  of  them  come  to  me  after  the  meeting  and  shake  hands  and 
congratulate  me  upon  the  address;  and  to  have  some  of  the  members 
of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  that  great  club — the  Knife  and  Fork 
Club  of  Kansas  City — (which  I  understood  is  second  only  to  the 
Gridiron  Club  at  Washington) — to  have  them  say  that  they  hoped 
for  a  return  date  so  that  they  could  hear  more  of  our  people — 

I  was  requested  afterwards  to  return  and  make  a  speech  before  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  I  was  requested  in  the  first  speech  to  tell  only 
of  the  accomplishments  of  the  Church  financially  and  otherwise,  but  the 
request  came  afterwards  to  return  and  tell  of  our  faith,  and  later  I  de- 
livered an  address  quoting  the  Articles  of  Faith  and  giving  the  best 
that  was  in  me.   The  secretary  said  that  he  wished  that  the  six  thousand 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


members  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  could  have  a  copy  of  the  speech. 
I  told  him  we  had  a  printing  office  ten  miles  away,  and  that  he  should 
have  six  thousand  copies.  I  do  not  know  whether  he  ever  delivered  them 
or  not,  but  I  mailed  them. 

To  have  them  say  that  they  hoped  for  a  return  date  so  that  they 
could  hear  more  of  our  people;  and  then  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact 
that  the  Prophet  and  his  followers  in  the  early  days  were  expelled 
from  Missouri;  that  many  of  them  were  murdered;  that  all  kinds  of 
crimes  were  committed  upon  the  people;  that  their  property  was 
confiscated;  that  we  have  never  received  anything  for  our  property  that 
belonged  to  us  in  that  section,  that  today  some  of  the  valuable  country 
we  traveled  over  there  is  the  very  property  that  our  people  owned, 
(for  when  you  follow  up  many  abstracts  of  valuable  property  you  will 
find  that  the  title  centers  in  the  bishop  of  the  Mormon  Church) — 

I  told  them  I  owned  indirectly  through  the  Church  half  of  Kansas 
City,  but  I  could  not  get  any  of  it. 

I  say  to  stop  and  reflect  that  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  of  which  no  tongue  can  tell  and  no  pen  can 
paint  the  conditions;  and  then  to  realize  that  there  is  a  feeling  in  that 
community  now,  among  the  people  residing  in  the  very  place,  so  to 
speak,  'from  which  President  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  of  the  Living 
God  and  others  were  driven  out;  to  be  invited  to  go  there  and  be 
asked  to  talk  of  the  accomplishments  of  Mormonism,  and  to  have  that 
talk  received  with  open  arms,  shows  the  most  wonderful  change  in 
sentiment. 

HONORED  AT  A  DINNER 

And  to  have  a  dinner  given  to  me  three  years  ago  by  the  leading 
people  of  this  city,  and  to  have  telegrams  from  New  York  to  San  Fran- 
cisco of  good  will  and  congratulations ;  to  have  our  newspapers,  all  of 
them,  give  splendid  accounts,  and  to  have  the  paper  that  used  to  abuse 
us  give  us  the  finest  kind  of  treatment  today — the  change  that  has  come 
about,  I  am  grateful  for  beyond  all  my  power  of  expression. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  ADVISED  TO  KEEP  COMMANDMENTS 

I  announced  here  at  the  Priesthood  meeting  last  night,  and  I 
have  decided  to  announce  it  again,  that  we  expect  all  the  General 
Officers  of  the  Church — [and  when  I  say  all  I  mean  all],  each  and 
every  one  of  them,  from  this  very  day,  to  be  absolute  full  tithe-payers, 
to  really  and  truly  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  and  we  ask  all  of 
the  officers  of  the  Church  and  all  members  of  the  General  Boards, 
and  all  Stake  and  Ward  officers,  if  they  are  not  living  the  Gospel  and 
honestly  and  conscientiously  paying  their  tithing,  to  kindly  step  aside 
unless  from  this  day  they  live  up  to  these  provisions. 

I  repeat  it  and  emphasize  it  today,  we  do  not  want  any  man  or  any 
woman  occupying  a  position  who  is  not  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God. 

We  feel  that  in  all  the  Stakes,  every  Stake  President,  every 
counselor  to  a  Stake  President,  every  Stake  Clerk,  and  every  High 
Councilor,  standing  at  the  head  of  the  people  in  the  Stake — we  ask 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

them  to  kindly  step  aside  unless  they  are  living  up  to  these  laws.  They 
are  given  the  responsibility  of  presiding,  and  every  officer  who  is  a 
presiding  officer  should  say  from  today:  I  am  going  to  serve  the 
Lord,  so  that  my  example  will  be  worthy  of  imitation. 

No  man  can  teach  the  Word  of  Wisdom  by  the  Spirit  of  God 
who  does  not  live  it.  No  man  can  proclaim  this  Gospel  by  the  Spirit 
of  the  Living  God  unless  that  man  is  living  his  religion;  and  with 
this  great  undertaking  that  we  have  before  us  now  we  must  renew 
our  loyalty  to  God,  and  I  believe  beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  that 
God  inspires  and  blesses,  and  multiplies  our  substance  when  we  are 
honest  with  Him. 

I  not  only  believe  it,  but  I  know  it.  The  great  majority  of  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  are  honest  tithepayers  are  the  most  prosperous 
of  all  the  people.  I  am  not  talking  of  individual  exceptions.  God  says 
that  "When  you  do  what  I  say,  I  am  bound,"  and  He  has  said  that  people 
rob  Him  in  their  tithes  and  their  offerings,  and  we  want  it  stopped. 

I  want  to  leave  with  this  vast  audience  my  deep  appreciation  of 
all  that  has  been  said  here.  I  endorse  it  with  all  my  heart,  and  I 
renew  again  everything  that  I  said  in  the  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  at 
the  close  of  our  Conference  six  month  ago,  and  I  renew  it  again 
today.  I  ask  every  man  and  woman  occupying  a  place  of  responsi- 
bility whose  duty  it  is  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  live  it 
and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  so  that  their  example  will 
teach  it;  and  if  they  cannot  do  it  we  will  go  on  loving  them,  we  will 
go  on  putting  our  arms  around  them,  we  will  go  on  praying  for  them 
that  they  may  become  strong  enough  to  live  it.  But  unless  they  are 
able  to  live  it  we  ask  them  to  please  step  aside  so  that  those  who  are 
living  it  can  teach  it.  No  man  can  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  and  with  power  from  on  high 
unless  he  is  living  it.  He  can  go  on  as  a  member  and  we  will  never 
put  a  block  in  his  way,  because  the  Gospel  is  one  of  love  and  of  for- 
giveness, but  we  want  true  men  and  women  as  our  officers  in  the 
Priesthood  and  in  the  Relief  Societies,  and  in  all  the  organizations, 
and  a  man  has  no  right  to  be  in  a  High  Council  who  cannot  stand  up 
and  say  that  he  knows  the  Gospel  is  true  and  that  he  is  living  it. 

TESTIMONY  AS  TO  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

Now  I  have  a  lot  more.  The  doctor  said  I  was  to  speak  but  once. 
I  am  going  to  speak  again,  so  I  think  I  will  quit  for  this  time.  I  rejoice 
beyond  all  the  power  of  expression  which  God  has  given  me  that 
I  know  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  rejoice  that  there  came  into  my  heart  as  a 
boy,  probably  not  quite  sixteen,  when  I  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  faith- 
fully and  diligently  and  prayerfully,  a  perfect  assurance  that  it  was  true 
and  I  have  never  met  anything  since  then,  and  that  is  nearly  seventy  years 
ago,  that  has  ever  weakened  my  faith  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  am  grateful  that  there  came  into  my  heart  a  love  and  admiration 
for  Nephi,  and  I  am  grateful  that  that  man  believed  and  taught  and  de- 
clared that  God  asked  nothing  of  men  but  what  He  prepared  the  way 
whereby  they  could  do  that  thing  that  He  required.  There  is  nothing 
that  God  asks  of  you  or  of  me  but  what  you  could  do,  and  do  easily,  and 
if  you  do  it  God  will  bless  you,  and  if  you  do  not  do  it  you  will  lose  your 
faith  and  we  will  have  to  labor  with  you  to  try  to  warm  up  your  hearts 
and  get  you  back  again. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


PRAISES  PAST  LEADERS 

God  lives.  God  directs  the  affairs  of  this  Church.  Tin's  is  the  work 
of  God.  And  the  men  whom  the  Lord  has  chosen,  as  recorded  in  this 
book,  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith — I  knew  and  loved  them  all  except  the 
Prophet,  and  I  loved  him  with  all  my  heart  because  of  the  testimony  of 
my  dear  mother  that  he  was  the  finest  man  that  ever  lived ;  and  the  same 
testimony  time  and  again  was  given  by  Sisters  Eliza  R.  Snow  and  Em- 
meline  B.  Wells  and  the  other  leading  women  of  the  Relief  Society.  My 
mother  was  president  for  thirty  years  of  the  Thirteenth  Ward  Relief 
Society.  I  grew  up  as  a  little  boy  in  the  Relief  Society  meetings,  and  the 
sisters  who  knew  the  Prophet  Joseph,  fine,  lovely,  intelligent,  wonderful 
women,  all  stated  that  he  was  the  most  noble,  splendid  man  that  ever 
lived. 

I  was  intimate  from  the  time  I  was  a  child  of  six  with  Brigham 
Young.  I  attended  many  times  his  prayer  meetings  in  the  Lion  House. 
On  two  occasions  when  he  was  praying  I  turned  and  looked.  It  seemed 
as  though  he  had  the  Lord  right  there  talking  to  him  and  asking  him  what 
he  wanted  and  telling  him  what  he  needed. 

I  was  very  glad  the  last  time  I  saw  him  and  shook  hands  with  him 
to  have  him  smile  and  make  me  a  promise.  I  had  been  elected  Assistant 
Cashier  of  Zion's  Savings  Bank.  I  was  not  only  the  assistant  cashier, 
but  I  was  the  janitor,  the  paying  and  receiving  teller,  the  bookkeeper  and 
the  whole  thing.  I  closed  the  bank  Wednesday  evenings  and  put  a  sign 
on  the  door,  "This  bank  will  open  at  12 :30  tomorrow.  The  assistant 
cashier  has  gone  to  Fast  meeting." 

BLESSED  THROUGH  MAKING  A  GENEROUS  DONATION 

We  used  to  have  Fast  meetings  on  Thursdays,  and  while  I  happen 
to  think  of  it  I  will  tell  you  about  one  of  those  Fast  meetings. 

Bishop  Edwin  D.  Woolley  made  an  exceptional  talk  and  he  pleaded 
with  the  people  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord  and  to  be  generous  with  their 
money,  and  he  was  generous  with  his.  I  know  it  because  I  used  to  help 
him  in  keeping  his  books.  Among  other  things  he  said,  "The  Lord  re- 
wards men  four-fold."  I  happened  to  have  fifty  dollars  in  my  pocket. 
The  bank  had  not  opened  and  I  could  not  deposit  it.  After  the  meeting  I 
handed  the  money  to  the  Bishop  and  he  said,  "My  boy,  why  five  dollars 
would  be  your  share  of  this."  I  said,  "Brother  Woolley,  didn't  you  say 
the  Lord  rewards  four-fold  ?  My  dear  mother  needs  a  couple  of  hundred 
dollars."  {Laughter).  He  smiled  and  said,  "My  boy,  do  you  expect  to 
get  it  quicker  if  I  take  that  other  forty-five  dollars  ?"  He  had  taken  the 
five  and  shoved  forty-five  back  to  me.  I  said,  "I  certainly  do.  I  thought 
you  were  inspired  in  your  talk  and  I  believe  every  word  you  said." 

Walking  to  the  bank  an  idea  popped  into  my  head.  I  went  into 
Wells-Fargo  Bank,  where  I  had  worked,  and  made  arrangements  for 
them  to  cash  my  draft  on  New  York  for  a  sum  sufficiently  large  to  take 
care  of  all  I  could  possibly  buy  of  certain  bonds  within  forty-eight  hours. 


; 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

They  said,  "Certainly  your  credit  will  be  good  if  you  get  authority  from 
the  man  to  whom  you  are  shipping  the  bonds."  So  I  wired  the  man  in 
New  York,  whom  I  knew,  and  I  made  $218.50  in  two  days.  I  went  to 
the  Bishop  and  told  him  that  the  Lord  did  not  give  me  sufficient  in  addi- 
tion to  pay  all  the  tithing,  that  I  had  to  dig  up  the  difference  between 
twenty-one  and  a  fraction  dollars  and  eighteen  dollars  and  fifty  cents  to 
pay  my  tithing.    I  got  my  two  hundred  dollars. 

I  have  had  my  prayers  answered  time  and  time  again,  and  not  only 
have  I  had  my  prayers  answered  but  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that 
God  hears  and  answers  the  prayers  of  honest  people.  I  know  He  saved 
the  life  of  my  little  girl  when  she  was  dying,  who  is  now  the  head  of  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 'Association. 


AN  INSPIRED  PATRIARCHAL  BLESSING 

I  know  that  He  inspired  John  Rowberry  to  give  me  a  blessing  that 
I  should  leave  Tooele  and  become  one  of  the  leading  men  in  the  Church, 
and  it  came  true.  And  he  said,  "I  saw  something  while  blessing  you 
that  I  dare  not  put  in  your  blessing,"  and  it  came  to  me  as  plain  as  though 
a  voice  had  said  it,  "He  saw  you  as  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  I  afterwards  thought,  "My  gracious,  I  must 
be  silly  to  think  that  that  is  true,",  and  I  never  breathed  it  or  said  a  word 
about  it  until  that  came  to  me.    He  gave  me  a  marvelous  blessing. 

And  he  blessed  that  little  girl.  She  was  very,  very  sick,  a  child  just 
a  few  months  old.  He  gave  her  a  fine  blessing,  and  then  he  turned  to 
me  and  said,  "While  we  were  blessing  the  child  did  you  get  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  that  she  should  live  ?"  I  said  "No."  He  said :  "I  did.  Go 
to  that  desk  and  get  a  piece  of  paper,  and  let  me  give  this  child  her  pa- 
triarchal blessing."  He  promised  her  many,  many  things,  and  he  prom- 
ised her  life.   She  lived  and  those  things  have  been  fulfilled. 

DAUGHTER  HEALED  BY  THE  POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

When  she  was  dying  in  Washington  and  I  was  praying  to  the  Lord 
to  spare  her  life,  it  came  to  me  as  plain  as  any  voice  ever  spoke,  although 
I  heard  nothing :  "Send  for  the  Elders  to  rebuke  the  destroyer,  and  your 
child  shall  live." 

Brother  George  Q.  Cannon  and  Brother  Hiram  B.  Clawson  were  in 
Washington  at  the  time.  I  sent  for  them,  they  blessed  her  and  prom- 
ised her  life  and  many  things,  all  of  which  have  been  fulfilled ;  and  among 
other  things,  they  announced  that  the  adversary  had  decreed  her  death, 
but  by  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  they  rebuked 
this  decree  and  promised  her  life. 

Before  leaving  Washington  I  was  in  the  boarding  house  where  the 
children  had  been  sick,  and  the  lady  who  kept  the  boarding  house  had 
left  for  the  day.  Her  husband  was  there  and  he  said  to  me :  "I  will  have 
to  tell  you  a  joke  on  my  wife.  She  believes  in  spiritualistic  mediums." 
So  do  I  but  I  believe  they  are  inspired  of  the  devil.  I  said  to  the  man, 
"I  am  glad  to  hear  your  message."  He  told  me  that  his  wife  went  to  the 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  13 

i 

medium,  and  the  medium  said :  "I  see  two  little  girls  in  your  home,  and 
I  see  that  the  older  one  is  taken  sick.  I  now  see  that  the  next  one  is  sick. 
And  I  see  them  sick  nigh  unto  death.  I  now  see  the  younger  girl  die.  I 
see  her  body  put  in  a  coffin,  and  I  see  it  taken  to  a  railroad  station.  I 
see  it  go  through  great  cities,  I  now  see  it  cross  a  great  river,  I  now  see  it 
go  through  some  more  great  cities,  and  I  see  it  cross  another  great  river. 
Now  I  see  it  travel  through  a  sparsely  settled  country."  You  all  know 
that  forty  years  ago,  after  crossing  the  Mississippi  and  the  Missouri 
rivers,  the  country  this  side  of  Omaha  was  a  sparsely  settled  country. 
"I  see  it  go  west,  west,  climbing  mountains,  mountains,  mountains.  I 
see  it  stop  and  go  south  a  little  way" — from  Ogden  to  Salt  Lake.  "I 
see  the  coffin  taken  off  the  train,  then  taken  to  a  side  hill  and  buried,  in 
a  place  almost  completely  surrounded  by  mountains." 

Thank  God  for  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  that 
rebuked  the  decree  of  death !  The  medium  who  told  what  was  going  to 
happen,  told  what  the  devil  would  like.  But  thank  God  for  the  Priest- 
hood, and  she  is  alive  and  well,  and  is  the  mother  of  seven  fine  children 
and  the  grandmother  of  eight  more. 

God  bless  you  one  and  all,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 


The  combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang 
"Cradle  Song" — Brahms.  Director  Meryl  T.  Cardall  of  the  Emigration 
Stake. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  In  common  with  you,  I  have  been  inspired 
and  made  grateful  by  the  message  which  has  been  delivered  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  the  representative  of  God  on  this  earth.  May  we  heark- 
en to  what  he  has  said,  may  we  obey  his  counsel  in  all  things.  I  know 
him  to  be  a  righteous  man,  a  man  whom  God  loves,  and  to  whom  God 
reveals  His  mind  and  His  will,  and  this  is  my  testimony  to  you  and  to 
the  world.  May  God  spare  him  yet  many  years  to  guide  and  direct  this 
people. 

THE  CHURCH  IN  A  PROSPEROUS  CONDITION 

I  thought  perhaps  I  might  begin  my  remarks  by  saying  to  you  a  few 
things  about  the  Church  in  general.  As  I  have  explained  to  you  before, 
we  build  at  the  beginning  of  each  year  a  budget  in  which  we  allocate  to 
the  various  activities  of  the  Church  certain  funds  which  we  hope — and 
as  to  which  our  hopes  have  always  been  realized — you  brethren  and 
sisters  will  furnish  by  your  tithes  and  offerings.  And  may  I  say  here, 
with  gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  with  congratulations  to  you 
and  to  the  Church  generally,  that  this  promises  to  be  the  banner  year  of 
the  Church  in  the  matter  of  tithes  and  offerings.  We  are  living  within 
our  budget,  and  we  are  doing  this  so  far,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

the  cost  of  building  and  of  materials  generally  which  we  have  to  use  in 
our  work  has  considerably  advanced. 

Our  great  building  projects  completed  during  the  year,  or  which 
are  now  going  on,  are  the  Idaho  Falls  Temple,  which  we  are  pushing 
rapidly  to  a  conclusion;  the  Joseph  Smith  Memorial  building  down  at 
the  Brigham  Young  University  which  is  finished  and  will  be  dedicated 
soon,  and  the  various  Ward  buildings  which  we  are  building  all  over  the 
Church. 

We  have  been  most  grateful  for  your  work  in  carrying  on  the  beau- 
tification  program.  All  over  the  Church  it  is  noticeable  that  we  are  im- 
proving our  yards,  cleaning  them  up,  painting  our  buildings,  repairing 
the  fences,  things  that  we  should  do,  because  the  Lord  loves  order  and 
He  loves  us  to  live  in  orderly  places. 

The  Relief  Society  just  now  is  making  a  drive,  as  you  know,  to  reach 
one  hundred  thousand  members.  We  hope  that  all  Bishops  will  cooper- 
ate with  the  presidents  of  the  Relief  Societies  of  their  Wards  in  helping 
to  attain  this  desired  end. 

THE  TRUE  MEANING  OF  FAST  OFFERINGS 

There  has  been  some  good  deal  of  talk  among  the  people  with  ref- 
erence to  Fast  offerings,  and  I  should  like  to  repeat  here  what  was  said 
yesterday,  both  by  President  McKay  and  by  myself,  before  the  Bishops : 
Do  not,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  members  of  the  Church  generally,  get 
the  impression  that  a  dollar  is  the  ceiling  on  Fast  offerings.  A  dollar  is 
the  ceiling  which  we  said  we  hoped  you  might  at  least  reach  for  one  year, 
but  the  real  ceiling  of  the  Fast  offering  is  the  price  of  two  meals  per 
month  for  the  twelve  months :  not  a  dollar,  but  the  price  of  the  meals. 
If  you  have  a  five  cent  meal,  then  twelve  times  ten  would  be  one  dollar- 
twenty  cents ;  if  you  have  a  ten  cent  meal  it  would  be  two-forty  a  year ; 
if  you  have  a  fifteen  cent  meal,  it  would  be  three  dollars  and  sixty  cents ; 
and  if  you  have  a  twenty  cent  meal — and  most  of  you  eat  that  kind  of 
meal — then  you  owe  the  Lord  and  the  poor  four  dollars  and  eighty  cents 
as  your  Fast  offering. 

WORK  GOING  ON  IN  FOREIGN  LANDS 

We  are  glad  to  say  that  the  missionary  work  is  going  forward  in 
these  war  times  in  foreign  countries.  We  are  having  some  difficulty 
in  getting  missionaries  into  some  countries,  but  we  hope  and  shall  try 
to  carry  on  to  the  full  extent  possible  this  missionary  work  in  foreign 
lands. 

CHURCH  ACTIVITIES  IN  ARMY  CAMPS  AND  DEFENSE  INDUSTRIES 

You  have  already  heard  of  the  appointment  of  Brother  Hugh  B. 
Brown  to  help  in  the  army  camps.  We  may  say  that  Brother  Brown 
is  being  received  most  kindly.  He  is  going  around  to  the  different 
camps,  he  is  trying  to  get  in  touch  with  the  sons  whom  you  have  sent 
into  those  camps.  He  is  trying  to  arrange  so  that  these  boys  who  are 
there  can,  if  they  wish,  carry  on  their  work  as  Latter-day  Saints. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  15 


Recently  we  asked  the  Bishops  to  notify  you  that  we  could  supply, 
through  the  Deseret  Book  Company,  three  books  that  you  might  send  to 
your  sons  who  are  in  the  army  camps,  at  cost.  You  can  send  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Articles  of  Faith  by  Brother  Talmage,  and  a  Song  Book,  for 
one  dollar  and  three  cents,  or  if  you  send  another  Song  Book  it  costs  one 
dollar  thirty-three  cents.  I  think  there  are  few  if  any  Latter-day  Saints 
who  could  not  send  their  boys  in  the  camps  these  books  properly  inscribed. 
I  can  assure  you  from  the  reports  that  we  have  received  that  practically 
nothing  you  can  do  will  do  more  to  hold  these  boys  along  the  road  that  you 
want  them  to  travel  than  for  you  to  send  these  books.  We  have  arranged 
that  where  the  people  are  tob  poor  to  spend  a  dollar  on  their  sons,  we 
can  take  care  of  it. 

We  are  also  trying  to  organize  the  defense  workers  who  are  work- 
ing in  defense  industries,  particularly  on  the  Western  Coast ;  we  are  ar- 
ranging with  the  Presidents  of  the  Stakes  in  that  section  to  cooperate 
together  and  coordinate  their  labors  to  bring  these  young  boys  into  the 
Wards,  where  they  are  in  the  Stakes,  and  into  the  Branches,  where  they 
are  in  the  Missions,  so  that  they  can  participate  in  Church  activities.  We 
are  trying  to  arrange  so  that  no  one  will  be  neglected  or  be  forgotten,  and 
that  everybody  will  have  an  opportunity,  every  young  man  who  wishes 
it,  to  continue  his  activities  in  Church  work  to  the  utmost  limit  that  is 
possible  under  the  conditions. 

SEES  PERILOUS  TIMES 

We  come  here  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  all  of  us,  with  faith, 
we  hope  with  testimony.  We  come  here  in  the  hope  that  the  Lord  will 
inspire  those  who  speak  to  us,  so  to  speak  that  we  may  gain  strength, 
increased  knowledge,  that  our  testimonies  will  be  intensified  and  made 
stronger  to  the  end  always  that  we  may  be  able  to  live  the  Gospel  and 
enjoy  its  blessings.  We  all  know  how  we  ought  to  live,  I  do  not  need 
to  tell  you  about  that,  but  I  do  perhaps  need  to  exhort  myself  and  to 
exhort  you  to  live  as  we  know  we  ought  to  live. 

I  have  in  the  past,  for  the  last  eight  years,  talked  about  the  perilous 
times  that  were  coming,  and  now  about  the  perilous  times  that  we  are 
in.  I  do  not  intend  to  go  over  that  ground  again,  but  I  do  call  your 
attention  to  the  fact  that  we  urge  upon  you  thrift,  economy,  getting  out 
of  debt,  and  keeping  out  of  debt.  We  have  told  you  about  the  bad  effects 
of  interest ;  we  have  told  you  about  the  war  prosperity,  and  the  depres- 
sion which  is  to  come.  All  that  has  been  said  in  the  past,  all  that  I  have 
said,  I  want  to  incorporate  here  by  reference.  We  said  these  things  when 
it  was  unpopular  to  say  them,  when  we  were  thought  to  be  going  against 
the  course  we  should  go,  but  now  everybody  is  talking  about  these  things, 
and  we  do  hope  that  the  people  will  realize  that,  after  all,  the  old  virtues 
are  the  sound  ones,  the  old  virtues  are  the  things  upon  which  we  must 
build.  . 

I  have  also  talked  about  our  participation  in  the  war,  and  I  told 
you  years  ago  that  there  was  to  be  an  effort  to  take  our  boys  across  the 
Water.   You  do  not  need  to  have  any  doubt  about  it  now,  I  suppose. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

It  is  not  only  being  sought  for  on  the  other  side,  but  it  is  being  planned 
for  on  this  side. 

I  have  also  spoken  about  what  I  will  call  commodity  insurance,  re- 
membering that  sometime  you  may  be  ill,  that  sometime  you  may  be 
thrown  out  of  employment,  sometime  you  may  have  death  in  your  homes ; 
remembering  that  your  crops  may  sometimes  fail.  We  have  urged  you 
to  get  enough  material  together  so  that  you  would  have  some  insurance 
against  those  conditions.  I  am  talking  about  foodstuffs  and  the  things 
that  are  necessary  in  our  living.   I  renew  that  suggestion. 

WARNING  AGAINST  COMMUNISM 

I  have  been  preaching  against  Communism  for  twenty  years.  I  still 
warn  you  against  it,  and  I  tell  you  that  we  are  drifting  toward  it  more 
rapidly  than  some  of  us  understand,  and  I  tell  you  that  when  Commun- 
ism comes,  the  ownership  of  the  things  which  are  necessary  to  feed  your 
families  is  going  to  be  taken  away  from  us.  I  tell  you  freedom  of  speech 
will  go,  freedom  of  the  press  will  go,  and  freedom  of  religion  will  go. 

I  have  warned  you  against  propaganda  and  hate.  We  are  in  the 
midst  of  the  greatest  exhibition  of  propaganda  that  the  world  has  ever 
seen,  and  all  directed  toward  one  end.   Just  do  not  believe  all  you  read. 

EARLY  LEADERS  REBUKED  BY  THE  LORD 

The  First  Presidency  was  organized  in  March  of  1833.  In  May 
of  that  year  the  Lord  gave  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet,  and  I  am  going 
to  read  a  few  verses  from  that  revelation,  because  I  think  the  instruc- 
tions and  the  admonition  and  the  command  here  given  are  of  the  last 
and  ultimate  importance  today. 

But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light 
and  truth. 

But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  servant  Frederick  G.  Williams, 
you  have  continued  under  this  condemnation; 

You  have  not  taught  your  children  light  and  truth,  according  to 
the  commandments;  and  that  wicked  one  hath  power,  as  yet,  over 
you,  and  this  is  the  cause  of  your  affliction. 

I  am  reading  from  the  93rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

And  now  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you — if  you  will  be  deliv- 
ered you  shall  set  in  order  your  own  house,  for  there  are  many  things 
that  are  not  right  in  your  house. 

Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Sidney  Rigdon,  that  in  some  things  he 
has  not  kept  the  commandments  concerning  his  children ;  therefore,  first 
set  in  order  thy  house. 

Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Joseph  Smith  Junior,  or  in  other 
words, I  will  call  you  friends,  for  you  are  my  friends,  and  ye  shall  have 
an  inheritance  with  me — ■ 

I  called  you  servants  for  the  world's  sake,  and  ye  are  their  ser- 
vants for  my  sake — 

And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  Joseph  Smith  Junior, — you  have  not 
kept  the  commandments,  and  must  needs  stand  rebuked  before  the 
Lord; 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  17 


Your  family  must  needs  repent  and  forsake  some  things,  and  give 
more  earnest  heed  unto  your  sayings,  or  be  removed  out  of  their 
place. 

What  I  say  unto  one  I  say  unto  all;  pray  always  lest  that  wicked 
one  have  power  in  you,  and  remove  you  out  of  your  place. 

My  servant  Newel  K.  Whitney  also,  a  bishop  in  my  Church, 
hath  need  to  be  chastened,  and  set  in  order  his  family,  and  see  that 
they  are  more  diligent  and  concerned  at  home,  and  pray  always,  or 
they  shall  be  removed  out  of  their  place. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TO  TEACH  CHILDREN 

Now,  as  I  see  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  the  crying  need  of 
the  Church  today.  We  must  set  in  order  our  own  houses,  we  must  see 
that  our  children  are  properly  taught;  they  must  understand  what  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  are,  and  we  shall  not  have  our  skirts  clear 
if  we  do  not  do  all  that  is  in  our  power,  not  alone  by  precept,  but  by 
example,  in  bringing  them  to  live  according  to  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel. In  no  other  way  can  salvation  and  exaltation  come,  and  our  troubles 
will  be  great,  even  as  the  Lord  told  the  First  Presidency  over  a  hundred 
years  ago,  our  troubles  will  be  great  if  we  fail  in  teaching  our  children 
properly.  We  are  coming  too  much  to  the  point  where  we  condone  sin 
instead  of  forgiving  the  repentant  sinner,  and  there  is  a  great  difference 
between  those  two  things.  The  Lord  has  said  He  cannot  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance,  and  yet  He  has  proclaimed  time  and 
time  again  His  willingness  to  extend  mercy,  to  extend  forgiveness,  to 
receive  back  that  person  who,  sinning,  has  sincerely  repented,  and  by 
this  ye  shall  know  that  they  have  repented,  namely,  that  they  confess 
their  sins  and  forsake  them. 

It  is  becoming  a  practice  today  to  try  to  coax,  cajole,  buy  children  to 
be  good.  We  hesitate,  some  of  us,  to  say  to  children,  you  must  not  do 
this,  you  must  not  do  that,  and  to  our  young  people  we  hesitate  to  do 
this,  because  we  may  offend  them.  The  Lord  has  made  it  perfectly  clear, 
from  Adam  until  now,  and  has  told  us  in  no  unmistaken  words,  that 
there  are  certain  things  "thou  shalt  not"  do.  Adam  fell  because  he 
violated  one  "Thou  shalt  not."  Moses  from  Sinai  gave  a  whole  series 
of  commandments,  only  one  of  which  has  not  "Thou  shalt  not"  in  it. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  our  young  people  welcome,  they  expect 
that  we  shall  tell  them  what  to  do  and  what  not  to  do,  and  what  not  to 
do  must  be  told  them  in  such  language,  in  such  terms,  and  with  such 
emphasis  that  they  are  not  left  in  doubt.  Try  this  on  your  young  people 
and  you  will  be  amazed  at  the  response  you  will  get.  They  are  hunger- 
ing for  the  Gospel.  See  to  it  that  we  do  not  starve  them;  they  must 
be  fed. 

My  time  is  up.  May  the  Lord  bless  you.  May  He  bless  all  of  us. 
May  He  increase  our  faith,  our  testimony.  May  He  give  us  all  of  the 
things  that  we  need  spiritually  and  temporally,  so  that  we  can  perform 
our  duties,  so  that  we  can  set  our  houses  in  order,  so  that  we  can  save 
our  children,  for  their  sakes,  for  our  own  sakes,  because  otherwise  the 
Lord  will  not  bless  us,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3 


First  Day 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that  you  appreciate  my  position 
here  this  morning.  I  have  been  impressed  as  you  have  with  the  spirit 
of  this  Conference  thus  far,  particularly  to  have  our  leader  talk  to  us 
as  he  has.  We  do  believe  that  which  we  have  heard. 

FOLLOWING  GOOD  ADVICE  BRINGS  SECURITY 

If  we  could  carry  to  our  homes  the  counsel  that  President  Clark  has 
given,  and  if  we  could  carry  out  this  advice  in  our  administrative  work 
in  the  Ward  and  the  Stakes,  I  am  sure  we  would  find  a  reawakening. 
On  one  occasion  the  Lord  said  to  His  disciples : 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  His  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
His  will  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or 
whether  I  speak  of  myself. 

This  has  a  far-sweeping  significance.  In  the  last  five  years,  perhaps 
six,  we  have  been  advised  of  steps  we  should  take  to  make  ourselves 
economically  secure.  We  have  passed  through  one  economic  tragedy 
we  were  not  prepared  to  meet,  for  we  had  been  laboring  in  some  degree 
of  lethargy ;  so  I  repeat  that  we  were  not  prepared  to  take  care  of  the 
economic  needs  of  our  people.  The  result  was  that  we  became  more  or 
less  confused  in  our  thinking  and  lost  sight  of  some  of  the  old  standards 
that  had  been  set  up  in  the  Church. 

PRESIDENT  YOUNG'S  EPISTLE  TO  SAMUEL  BRANNAN 

I  am  reminded  now  of  an  epistle  that  President  Young  sent  to  the 
Saints  in  California  by  Samuel  Brannan.  Brother  Brannan  intercepted 
the  Mormon  people  on  their  way  westward  out  on  Green  River.  You 
remember  he  had  instructions  to  take  a  group  of  Saints  then  residing  in 
the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States  around  Cape  Horn  and  up  to  San 
Francisco,  and  it  was  originally  intended  that  they  should  later  join 
the  Saints  in  the  Rocky  Mountains.  They  settled  in  1846  around  San 
Francisco  Bay,  and  in  1847,  when  Samuel  Brannan  learned  of  the  coming 
of  the  pioneers  under  the  leadership  of  Brigham  Young,  he,  with  two 
others  set  out  across  the  mountains  and  over  the  Oregon  Trail,  and  about 
the  last  of  June,  1847,  met  the  Mormon  leader  on  Green  River.  He 
remained  with  the  pioneers  and  came  into  the  Valley  with  them,  and  as 
he  was  about  to  leave,  President  Young  gave  some  very  definite  instruc- 
tions in  an  epistle  which  Brother  Brannan  was  to  take  back  to  the  Saints. 

Among  other  things,  the  President  wrote  this : 

We  feel  to  say  to  those  who  are  unitedly  engaged  with  Brother 
Brannan  in  laboring  for  the  good  of  the  whole,  that  the  poor,  the 
widow,  and  fatherless  may  not  want,  that  you  will  be  blessed  if  you 
keep  your  contracts  to  the  end  of  the  two  years,  and  labor  diligently 
in  your  several  occupations ;  and  when  that  time  shall  expire,  we  hope 
you  will  be  able  to  cancel  all  your  obligations  and  have  enough  to  give 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


19 


each  family  an  inheritance  or  stewardship,  that  he  may  commence, 
as  it  were,  anew  in  the  world,  just  as  we  are  commencing  here  at  this 
place  (Salt  Lake  City).  We  do  not  believe  in  having  all  things  in 
common  and  on  general  principles,  as  some  have  taught,  both  in  the 
Church  and  out,  but  we  believe  that  it  is  right  for  every  man  to  have 
his  stewardship,  according  to  the  ability  that  God  has  given  him. 

Now  the  reason  he  said  that  at  that  time  was  that  he  wanted 
the  Saints  to  understand  that  they  should  be  individualistic,  should  stand 
on  their  own  foundation,  and  that  they  should  work  for  what  they  got, 
giving  full  value,  maintaining  an  integrity  consistent  with  their  standing 
as  members  of  the  Church. 

The  epistle  is  an  interesting  one  and  all  of  it  is  worth  our  reading, 
but  the  point  I  wish  to  emphasize  is  the  point  that  President  Young  made 
with  Samuel  Brannan,  that  the  Saints  must  be  consistent,  must  be  loyal 
to  their  trust,  but  must  stand  independently  and  aloof  except  for  the 
help  that  they  themselves  might  contribute  to  a  common  cause. 

SUCCESS  OF  THE  WELFARE   PLAN  DEPENDS   UPON  LOYALTY 

The  President  pointed  out  that  it  was  the  duty  of  the  leading  brethren 
to  look  after  those  who  were  unfortunate,  and  who  could  not  make  their 
contribution  because  of  illness  or  physical  defect  or  otherwise,  that  all 
the  membership  of  the  Church  should  contribute  their  part  and  do 
their  part.  In  this  instruction,  as  I  see  it,  is  the  very  essence  of  the 
success  of  our  Welfare  Program.  Not  in  what  we  receive,  but  in  what 
we  do,  in  what  we  contribute  in  our  own  Wards  and  Stakes.  We  have  not 
been  so  successful  in  the  production  of  commodities,  not  so  successful 
as  we  would  like  to  be,  and  yet  we  feel  there  has  been  attained  a  degree 
of  success  because  of  the  loyalty  of  the  men  and  women  who  have  sought 
to  do  their  part.  When  men  and  women  will  go  down  on  projects  and 
work  in  the  mornings  and  the  evenings  ;  will  assemble  at  our  storehouses, 
women  who  are  busy  in  their  homes,  yet  are  willing  to  assemble  in  the 
storehouses  and  do  their  part  in  furthering  this  great  program — I  say 
when  men  and  women  will  do  that  we  need  not  fear  the  outcome,  al- 
though the  material  things  may  not  be  so  plentiful  as  we  would  like.  It 
is  in  the  spirit  of  the  thing  that  we  feel  the  power  and  the  strength  of 
this  effort. 

So  my  brethren  and  sisters — my  time  is  limited — if  I  may  just  say 
this :  if  we  will  DO,  we  will  know  of  the  doctrines.  If  we  will  contribute 
of  our  energies,  and  our  efforts,  we  can  accomplish  much.  Brother  Clark 
has  pointed  out  what  may  be  accomplished  in  the  Fast  if  we  do  our  part, 
and  then  concentrate,  centralize  that  in  the  great  divisions  of  the 
Stakes  and  the  Regions,  and  finally  the  central  storehouse.  What  may  we 
not  be  able  to  do  to  help  meet  that  which  confronts  the  Latter-Day  Saints, 
and  may  confront  them  when  the  time  of  need  comes ! 

So  I  repeat  the  words  of  the  Savior ;  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but 
His  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  His  will  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  The 
doctrine  He  was  teaching  was  not  His,  but  belonged  to  God,  as  every 
bit  of  energy  and  effort  that  is  put  forth  under  the  Welfare  Plan  for  the 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

benefit  and  blessing  of  the  people  is  in  harmony  with  the  will  and  purposes 
of  God.  If  we  do  His  will,  we  will  know  of  its  effectiveness  and  of  its 
blessings.  And  may  God  help  us  to  do  this,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  sure,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  were  all  pleased  to  hear  the 
President  of  the  Church,  and  to  know  that  he  was  able  to  stand  before  us 
and  address  us  in  the  opening  of  this  Conference.  If  I  were  to  undertake 
to  comment  on  his  remarks  I  would  say  that  the  principles  that  he  laid 
down  when  he  became  the  President  of  the  Church  have  actuated  his 
life  in  the  years  that  have  succeeded.  He  has  been  an  example  unto  the 
members  of  the  Church.  He  has  been  full  of  persuasion,  and  has  taught 
us  well  as  a  people.  I  believe  we  are  so  well  taught  that  if  we  should  do  as 
well  as  we  know,  and  leave  undone  the  things  we  know  we  ought  not  to  do, 
we  would  be  in  the  way  of  salvation.  We  have  need  therefore  of  being 
impressed  with  the  necessity  of  doing  things  we  know  we  ought  to  do. 

A  WAR  FOUGHT  FOR  A  PRINCIPLE 

Our  Savior  has  been  an  example  to  us  in  all  things.  I  call  attention 
to  the  war  that  took  place  in  heaven  of  which  we  read  in  the  Bible,  the 
12th  chapter  of  Revelation,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  where  one  of 
our  Father's  sons  who  was  regarded  as  a  noble  and  great  one,  presented 
a  plan  for  our  salvation  that  would  oblige  us  to  comply  with  the  law 
without  the  exercise  of  our  agency,  and  he  would  take  away  from  our 
Father  in  heaven  His  honor  and  His  glory.  In  that  council  in  heaven 
the  Firstborn  of  the  Father  in  the  spirit  came  forward  with  a  simple  but 
forceful  declaration :  "Father,  thy  will  be  clone,  and  the  glory  be  thine 
forever." 

The  battle  was  fought,  whatever  its  nature,  upon  this  platform  of 
principles,  and  we  have  reason  to  believe  that  we  were  among  those  who 
stood  with  the  Savior,  our  Elder  Brother,  true  and  faithful,  and  those 
who  rebelled  were  cast  out  and  down,  and  God's  purposes  and  His  will 
are  made  to  obtain  in  the  plan  of  man's  salvation.  The  Savior  is  our  great 
exemplar  and  we  are  instructed  by  Scripture  that  we  should  walk  in  the 
light  as  He  is  in  the  light,  with  the  promise  that  we  will  have  fellowship 
one  with  another,  and  His  blood  will  cleanse  us  from  all  sin.  We  have 
good  reason  to  believe  that  the  principle  which  the  Savior  presented 
in  the  council  of  heaven,  pertained  not  to  the  spirit  life  alone,  but  to  our 
existence  here  on  the  earth. 

Of  course  the  earth  was  not  framed  at  that  time,  but  the  end  is  known 
unto  God  even  from  the  beginning.  Provision  was  made  even  at  that 
time  for  redeeming  mankind  from  a  fall  that  had  not  yet  taken  place, 
through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  and  that  was  one  of  the  purposes  of 
His  being  chosen,  and  that  we  might  all  have  forgiveness  of  sin  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  The  Father  gave 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


21 


the  Son,  and  the  Son  gave  Himself,  the  greatest  gift  that  ever  was  given, 
the  greatest  sacrifice  that  ever  was  made,  the  greatest  service  that  ever 
was  rendered.  We  are  asked  to  follow  in  His  footsteps,  and  I  think  that 
means  that  we  should  be  willing  to  give  all  we  have,  if  need  be,  and  our 
lives,  if  necessary,  for  the  Cause,  to  aid  in  the  purpose  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  the  saving  of  His  children. 

We  are  not  so  much  interested  in  our  own  welfare  as  we  should  be, 
and  we  can  apply  this  spirit  of  the  Christ  to  our  individual  lives  in  this 
respect. 

"Thy  will  be  done"  meant  of  course  that  we  will  do  the  things  that 
will  please  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  when  we  are  doing  His  will  we 
are  pleasing  Him.  I  want  to  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  apparent 
that  many  of  us  are  doing  things  that  are  not  pleasing  to  our  Father 
in  heaven,  and  we  know  it,  so  we  have  need  to  be  reminded. 

The  Scriptures  tell  us  that  faith  is  the  first  principle  of  revealed 
religion,  the  foundation  of  all  righteousness,  and  the  moving  cause  in  all 
action.  Faith  being  the  foundation  of  all  righteousness,  we  may  conclude 
logically  that  our  unrighteousness  is  due  to  a  lack  of  faith.  I  am  sure, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  had  the  faith  that  we  should  have,  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  expects  of  us,  there  is  no  requirement  made  of  us  but 
that  we  would  gladly  respond  to  it ;  and  the  blessings  held  out  to  us  we 
would  take  advantage  of. 

TEMPLE  MARRIAGE  A  GREAT  BLESSING 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  disappointment  to  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church  and  to  the  Lord  that  many  of  its  members  will  satisfy  themselves 
to  be  married  with  a  ceremony  until  death  separates  them — a  time 
marriage.  We  call  those  marriages  performed  in  the  Church  outside 
of  the  Temples  civil  marriages,  and  those  in  the  Temple,  Temple  mar- 
riages. I  want  to  explain  to  you  that  the  Temple  marriages  have  all  the 
elements  of  a  civil  marriage,  that  a  man  performing  a  Temple  marriage 
has  authority  of  law  the  same  as  those  who  perform  the  civil  marriages 
outside  of  the  Temple,  and  also  has  authority  in  the  holy  Priesthood,  by 
special  appointment,  the  sealing  power  by  which  the  man  and  woman 
are  sealed  as  husband  and  wife  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  and  not  only 
that,  but  some  of  the  greatest  blessings  our  Father  has  for  His  children, 
intended  for  the  very  elect  of  the  Lord,  are  pronounced  upon  them 
through  their  faithfulness  in  the  keeping  of  their  covenants,  blessings 
that  are  attainable  in  no  other  way  but  in  the  marriage  relation  in  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant. 

The  leaders  in  the  Wards,  particularly  the  Bishops  have  the  principal 
responsibility  of  teaching  the  young  people,  or  seeing  that  they  are 
taught  what  their  opportunities  are  in  the  matter  of  marriage  and  of 
receiving  the  sacred  ordinances  of  the  holy  endowments  in  the  Temple 
of  the  Lord  which  are  to  prepare  them  to  enter  into  and  receive  an 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  They  should  be  so  well  instructed 
that  when  a  young  man  comes  to  the  Bishop  for  a  recommend  who  has 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

not  complied  with  the  prescribed  conditions  so  as  to  be  worthy  to  go  to 
the  Temple,  he  could  consistently  deny  him  the  privilege. 

BLESSINGS  TO  BE  SOUGHT  THROUGH  WORTHINESS 

There  are  a  great  many  members  of  the  Church  who  have  been 
married  in  the  Temple  who  have  not  been  worthy  of  the  Temple  bless- 
ings. They  have  need  of  repentance. 

We  have  others  who  have  not  gone  to  the  Temple  because  they 
could  not  have  a  recommend.  They  know  they  are  not  living  the  Gospel 
so  as  to  be  worthy  to  receive  those  great  blessings  pertaining  to  the 
endowment  and  the  sealing  of  husband  and  wife,  and  this  is  displeasing  in 
the  sight  of  the  Lord. 

And  there  are  others  who  could  have  a  recommend  to  go  to  the 
Temple,  but  choose  to  be  married  for  time  and  in  civil  marriage  rather 
than  a  marriage  in  the  Temple  of  the  Lord. 

NEGLECT  OF  OPPORTUNITIES  BRINGS  REGRET 

Now  let  me  tell  you  of  an  experience  I  had  while  presiding  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  A  lady  came  to  me  as  the  President  of  the  Temple, 
sobbing  in  her  sorrow,  in  her  disappointment.  I  heard  her  story.  She 
said  that  she  and  her  husband  were  members  of  the  Church,  and  could 
have  gone  to  the  Temple,  but  they  did  not  give  serious  thought  to  it, 
and  after  they  had  two  children  the  husband  died.  Later,  she  married 
a  man  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  these  two  children — a  boy  and 
a  girl — had  now  arrived  to  their  teens,  and  in  the  genealogical  class  where 
they  were  studying  they  had  learned  that  those  who  had  not  been  born 
under  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  must  of  necessity  be  sealed  to 
their  parents,  and  so  they  came  to  their  mother  and  wanted  to  know  if 
they  could  be  sealed  to  the  father  and  the  mother.  The  facts  are  that  the 
parents  had  neglected  being  sealed  in  life,  and  after  the  death  of  the 
husband,  and  father,  the  wife  had  neglected  going  to  the  Temple  to 
be  sealed  to  the  husband  and  have  the  children  sealed  to  their  parents,  she 
has  now  married  outside  of  the  Church,  and  the  doors  of  the  Temple 
are  closed  against  her.  Not  only  is  she  deprived  of  the  blessings  of  the 
holy  endowment  and  of  being  a  sealed  wife  to  a  man  for  eternity,  but 
her  children  have  not  the  privilege  of  being  sealed  to  their  parents. 
These  parents  have  done  their  children  a  very  great  injustice  in  not  having 
been  married  in  the  Temple  that  the  children  might  be  born  under  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant. 

And  that  represents  but  one  class,  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  had  a  letter  at  one  time  from  one  of  our  northern  settlements,  I 
think  it  came  from  a  Ward  Teacher  who  made  representations  that  a 
couple  could  have  gone  to  the  Temple,  but  they  lived  a  long  distance 
from  the  Temple ;  they  intended  to  go  but  they  kept  putting  it  off  until 
they  had  three  children,  and  then  the  husband  was  taken  sick  and  died. 
Later  on  a  good  brother  came  along  and  courted  this  widow  and  she 
married  him  for  time,  with  the  understanding  that  he  would  go  to  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


23 


Temple  with  her  and  stand  as  proxy  for  her  husband,  that  she  might 
be  sealed  to  her  husband  and  have  her  children  sealed  to  them.  The  time 
went  by  and  this  promise  was  neglected,  until  now  she  has  three  children 
by  her  second  husband,  and  the  second  husband  thinks  now  that  he  has 
just  as  much  right  to  that  woman  as  the  first  husband,  and  the  woman 
seemed  to  be  in  doubt  as  to  what  was  the  right  thing  to  do,  or  what  her 
privileges  were.  Of  course,  she  not  having  been  sealed  to  any  man,  has 
her  choice.  She  can  be  sealed  to  whichever  one  she  likes.  When  she 
mourned  the  loss  of  her  husband  I  suppose  she  thought  she  could  never 
love  another,  but  time  heals  the  wound,  and  another  man  comes  into 
her  life,  and  now  she  is  in  a  position  where  she  must  judge  between  a  live 
man  and  a  dead  man,  and  usually  they  prefer  a  live  man,  (laughter)  and 
the  live  man  has  the  advantage  over  the  dead  man,  he  is  present  to  plead 
his  cause.  And  so  if  the  woman  decides  in  favor  of  the  second  husband 
which  is  her  right,  if  she  desires  it,  and  is  sealed  to  him,  the  only  way 
she  can  have  her  children  is  to  have  them  sealed  to  her  and  to  the  man 
to  whom  she  is  sealed.  The  children  having  been  young  while  their 
father  lived,  and  this  man,  if  he  has  been  a  good  stepfather,  the  children 
have  learned  to  love  him  and  respect  him  as  such  and  they  want  to  be 
sealed  to  their  mother.  The  only  way  to  be  sealed  to  her  is  to  be  sealed 
to  this  man.  They  are  perfectly  willing,  even  when  they  are  grown  up 
and  can  decide  for  themselves. 

How  about  the  first  husband,  the  father  of  those  children?  He  has 
lost  his  wife ;  he  has  lost  his  children,  through  neglect,  being  indifferent 
to  his  own  interests  and  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  concerning  him. 
As  I  have  said,  it  is  a  displeasure  to  the  Lord  if  any  of  these  members  of 
the  Church  should  not  be  living  so  as  to  get  a  recommend  to  the  Temple, 
or  if  those  who  are  worthy  do  not  go  to  the  Temple  for  those  blessings. 

These  represent  certain  classes.  I  want  to  tell  you  there  are  in  this 
Church  today  more  than  30,000  men  over  twenty  years  of  age  that  hold 
some  office  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  that  have  never  been  advanced  to 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  That  means  they  have  never  been  to  the 
Temple  and  received  their  endowments.  It  means  that  if  they  are  married 
they  have  married  outside  of  the  Temple.  It  means  they  are  in  danger 
of  losing  their  wives  and  their  children,  and  they  are  doing  an  injustice 
to  their  children,  bringing  up  their  family  without  giving  them  the 
privilege  of  being  born  under  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant. 

And  so  the  Prophet  Joseph  has  left  of  record  this  statement,  that 
whenever  the  Lord  offers  a  man  a  blessing  and  he  rejects  that  offer,  that 
man  is  damned. 

We  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that  there  are  incentives  held  out  to  us 
to  do  the  things  we  know  we  ought  to  do  to  obtain  salvation,  and  condem- 
nation awaits  us  if  we  neglect  those  duties. 

I  see  my  time  has  expired.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  help  He  has 
given  me,  for  I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  spoken  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  concerning 
us.  There  are  many  other  things  just  as  important  as  those  of  which 
I  have  been  speaking  and  wherein  we  are  showing  some  neglect.  So  in 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

the  spirit  of  humility,  and  in  love,  faith,  hope,  and  charity  I  would  call 
upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  need  of  it  to  repent  while  they  have 
the  opportunity  and  make  their  calling  and  election  sure,  and  may  God 
help  us  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Before  we  close  this  session  I  think  it  appropriate  to  read  an  appeal 
that  has  come  to  the  First  Presidency  from  the  Chief  of  Police  of  Salt 
Lake  City. 

My  Dear  Brethren:  The  Ward  Teachers  pamphlet  for  August, 
1941,  appealed  to  Latter-day  Saints  to  obey  traffic  laws,  to  stop  the 
waste  of  human  life  and  property  resulting  froni  a  disregard  of  these 
laws.   What  a  timely,  important  message. 

May  I  urge  that  this  matter  again  be  brought  to  the  attention  of 
all  those  who  attend  this  Conference. 

We  stress  the  importance  of  keeping  our  bodies  healthy  and 
strong  through  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is  almost  as 
important  to  achieve  the  same  results  by  obviating  accidents,  both  to 
ourselves  and  to  others.  There  is  a  definite  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  shoulders  of  each  Latter-day  Saint. 

Our  problem  is  to  try  to  convince  everyone  as  to  the  seriousness 
of  this  situation.  This  is  difficult,  for  deaths  and  accidents  have  in- 
creased despite  numerous  safety  campaigns.  Fewer  than  24,000  were 
killed  by  bombs  in  Britain  during  1940.  More  than  34,000  were  killed 
by  automobiles  in  the  United  States  during  1940. 

The  1940  record  for  accidents  and  fatalities  was  appalling;  but 
the  1941  figures  to  date  are  staggering.  There  is  a  more  wanton 
disregard  for  life  and  property  than  ever  before.  Hence  this  personal 
appeal,  for  we  have  our  share  locally. 

We  desire  that  everyone  may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing  at  Con- 
ference and  we  earnestly  hope  that  all  may  be  able  to  return  to  their 
respective  homes,  free  from  all  accidents  and  harm. 

EDUCATION,  ENFORCEMENT,  ENGINEERING,  all  play 
their  part  in  a  safety  program.  However,  the  human  equation  is  the 
most  important  of  all.  Therefore,  particularly  during  Conference 
please  be  careful. 

Keep  mentally  alert  while  walking  or  driving.  Remember,  150 
pounds  or  so  of  human  flesh  is  certainly  not  a  fit  antagonist  for  3000 
pounds  of  steel. 

Human  life  is  sacred.  It  should  be  preserved  in  every  way  pos- 
sible.   In  this,  as  in  all  other  things,  let  us  be  real  Latter-day  Saints. 

One  other  reminder.  Please  do  not  leave  clothing  or  other  valu- 
able property  in  your  automobiles  unless  you  are  there  to  watch 
over  it. 

With  the  kindliest  of  personal  regards,  I  remain, 
Respectfully, 

REED  E.  VETTERLI, 

Chief  of  Police 

That  is  an  appeal  which  needs  no  comment.   Let  us  heed  it. 
The  combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will 
now  sing,  "Holy  Art  Thou,"  by  Handel ;  Director :  Mrs.  Olive  Rich  of  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


25 


Bonneville  Stake.  The  solo  part  will  be  sung  by  Sister  Ruth  Jensen 
Clawson. 

May  I  express  to  you  our  sincere  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the 
Singing  Mothers  for  the  inspirational  service  they  have  rendered  this 
session. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder  German  E.  Ellsworth,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  this  afternoon  at  2  o'clock. 

The  combined  choruses  of  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang 
"Holy  Art  Thou" — Handel.  Director:  Olive  Rich  of  the  Bonneville 
Stake.    Soloist:   Ruth  Jensen  Clawson. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  German  E.  Ellsworth. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Friday,  October  3. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  services. 

The  combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of 
Bonneville,  Cottonwood,  Emigration,  Ensign,  Highland,  and  Wells 
Stakes  furnished  the  music  for  this  session.  Brother  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant  thought  it  advisable  for  him  to  rest  this  afternoon. 
His  two  Counselors  are  present,  all  the  Twelve  Apostles,  five  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve,  six  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  all  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  combined  choruses  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel" — Words  by  Phelps. 

Elder  Henry  C.  Jacobs,  President  of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang 
"America,  the  Beautiful" — Ward.  Director:  Ila  Wheelright  of  the 
Ensign  Stake. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  lawyer  said : 

Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law?  Jesus  said 
unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.    This  is  the  first  and  great 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  Birst  Dag 

commandment.  And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself.   (Matthew  22:36:39) 

The  world's  greatest  need  in  this  its  most  tragic  and  its  most  terrible 
hour  is  spiritual  regeneration  and  applied  religion.  And  it  is  concerning 
this  need  that  I  desire  to  speak  today.  I  appeal  to  you  for  serious  con- 
sideration of  those  great  fundamental  religious  ideals,  those  basic  laws 
of  God  which  from  the  beginning  all  good  people  have  had  a  desire  and 
an  ambition  to  obey.  Those  who  appreciate  and  really  understand  modern 
Christian  civilization  believe  in  being  honest,  they  believe  in  being  true, 
and  they  believe  in  doing  good  to  all  men. 

LOVE  YOUR  ENEMIES 

Anciently  it  was  said : 

An  eye  for  an  eye  and  a  tooth  for  a  tooth. 

Only  the  beast-like,  those  not  endowed  with  that  gift  of  reason  and 
feeling  with  which  man  is  endowed  can  practice  such  a  revengeful  and 
selfish  teaching.   The  words  of  the  Savior  are : 

But  I  say  unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you, 
do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully 
use  you,  and  persecute  you. 

And  he  adds : 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect.  (Matthew  S  :38-48) 

This  is  real  religion.  Measured  by  this  perfect  standard  which  the 
Savior  laid  down  and  in  accordance  with  which  He  Himself  lived,  where 
will  you  and  where  will  I  be  classified  ? 

Again  Paul  says : 

Remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  he  said,  It  is  more 
blessed  to  give  than  to  receive.    (Acts  20:35) 

And  the  Psalmist  records : 

/ 

Keep  thy  tongue  from  evil,  and  thy  lips  from  speaking  guile. 
(Psalms  34:13.) 

This  again  is  real  religion.  Measured  by  such  a  standard  where 
would  a  fair  classification  put  you  and  me  ?  Again : 

If  any  man  among  you  seem  to  be  religious,  and  bridleth  not  his 
tongue,  but  deceiveth  his  own  heart,  that  man's  religion  is  vain.  Pure 
religion  and  undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this:  To  visit  the 
fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself  unspotted 
from  the  world.  (James  1:26-27.) 

In  this  most  tragic  and  terrible  hour,  will  all  good  people  not  agree 
that  this  is  real  religion?  And  judged  by  these  high  and  perfect  stand- 
ards let  me  ask  again,  where  would  a  calm  and  a  fair  judgment  put  you 
and  me? 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


27 


NO  CHILD  HUNGRY  OR  COLD 

While  the  Gospel  plan  is  perfect  and  we  mortals  may  not  be  able  to 
live  that  plan  perfectly,  we  can  make  an  effort  in  that  direction,  and  the 
greater  the  effort,  the  more  nearly  perfect  will  be  the  result.  What  a 
glorious  condition  would  prevail  in  the  world  if  we  could  practice  in  high 
degree  these  teachings  of  real  religion,  the  love  of  God,  and  the  brother- 
hood of  man.  What  a  glorious  condition  would  prevail  if  no  child  any- 
where were  hungry,  barefooted,  or  poorly  clothed ;  if  every  child  had  a 
well-balanced  diet,  and  a  comfortable  home  in  which  to  live,  with  ample 
health  and  educational  opportunities;  if  all  who  are  able-bodied  could 
secure  work  so  as  to  make  it  possible  for  them,  by  the  sweat  of  the  brow, 
to  earn  their  living ;  if  those  who  are  unable  to  work  and  earn  could,  with 
genuine  willingness  and  love,  be  cared  for  in  real  comfort,  then  truly 
the  conditions  prevailing  would  be  glorious.  And  let  us  remember  and 
realize  that  real  practical,  unselfish,  applied  religion  can  bring  about  this 
greatly  desired  condition. 

We  all  need  that  genuine  Christian  spirit  which  not  only  acts  so 
effectively  as  a  spur  to  promote  human  happiness,  comfort  and  welfare, 
but  which  reacts  upon  ourselves,  stimulates  our  growth  and  development 
and  encourages  in  us  a  general  community  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
well  doing.  Man  thus  actuated  will  not  only  lead  a  better  individual  life 
but  he  will  help  to  build  a  stronger  and  a  better  nation. 

MAN  TO  HAVE  DOMINION 

Man  was  made  to  be  free,  to  rule  and  to  have  dominion.  And  this 
does  not  mean  a  dominion  to  be  gained  by  military  power  or  by  brute 
force  but  by  the  power  of  love,  unselfishness  and  understanding. 

It  is  because  some  of  the  leaders  of  men  today  lack  spirituality  and 
proper  adherence  to  religious  ideals  and  standards  that  the  whole  world 
is  filled  with  war  and  cries  of  war.  Men  may  call  out  peace,  peace,  but 
there  is  no  peace.  The  whole  world,  every  nation  therein,  is  preparing 
for  war,  or  for  so-called  defense,  at  a  rate  and  at  a  cost  unknown  and 
unheard  of  before  even  in  man's  wildest  imagination.  And  all  this  has 
come  about  because  of  the  selfishness,  greed,  envy,  hate,  ambition  and 
the  tyranny  of  some  of  the  leaders  of  mankind.  Nothing  but  spiritual 
regeneration,  and  a  return  to  the  religion  of  justice,  fairness  and  love 
can  remove  from  the  world  the  causes  of  this  mighty,  this  unparalleled 
conflict. 

RIDING  DRUNKENLY  TO  A  FALL 

Let  me  ask  you  if  the  training  given  to  our  young  people  these  days 
is  providing  a  solution  to  the  great  problems  with  which  our  beloved 
country  and  all  other  nations  are  confronted  ?  Was  Agnes  Bryson  right 
when  she  said : 

Crime  is  increasing,  poverty  is  increasing,  indecency  is  flaunting 
itself,  dishonesty  in  private  life  and  in  public  life  in  these  days  often- 
times causes  but  little  comment. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  Firs*  Day 

And  she  concludes : 

We  are  riding  drunkenly  to  a  fall. 

You  know  that  those  moral  and  religious  standards  which  civilized 
people  have  looked  upon  throughout  the  ages  as  well  founded  and  as 
controlling  principles  are,  in  some  quarters  today,  treated  with  disdain 
and  with  contempt.  In  many  places  cruel  and  merciless  brute  force  has 
replaced  reason  and  a  feeling  of  fair  dealing.  The  ruling  agency  of  some 
leaders  is  violent  and  irrational  emotion.  One  civilized  and  free  nation 
after  another  has  been  conquered  by  the  use  of  force  as  devoid  of  reason 
as  is  that  force  the  tiger  uses  when  he  devours  a  lamb.  We  are  seeing 
in  these  days  how  it  may  be  possible  for  force  unguided  by  religion, 
morals  or  honor  to  conquer  the  world: 


POWERFUL  BEAST,  HELPLESS  PREY 

What  some  are  calling  a  "New  Order"  follows  the  oldest  order 
known.  It  is  not  unlike  the  practice  of  the  powerful  beast  devouring  its 
helpless  prey.  It  is  an  order  whose  motives  are  prompted  by  envy,  hatred 
and  malice.  It  is  an  order  that  takes  from  man  his  freedom  and  makes 
it  impossible  for  the  individual,  however  righteous,  trustworthy,  tal- 
ented, ambitious  or  competent,  to  work  effectively,  to  rise  and  to  make 
his  contribution  to  the  good  of  mankind  by  rendering  the  highest  human 
service  of  which  he  is  capable.  This  so-called  new  order  is  distinctly, 
yes,  violently  against  the  progress  and  welfare  of  the  masses  of  the  people. 
It  would  destroy  the  very  foundations  of  free  government.  This  plan 
displaces  the  rule  of  moral  principle  with  that  of  selfishness,  force  and 
greed. 

PEACE  THAT  PASSETH  UNDERSTANDING 

Compare  such  a  condition  with  the  spirit  of  real  religion  expressed 
in  the  scriptures  as  "The  love  of  Christ  which  passeth  knowledge"  (Eph. 
3:19)  "and  the  peace  of  God  which  passeth  all  understanding." 
(Phil.  4:7) 

APPALLING  ATTACK  ON  INNOCENTS 

As  an  illustration  of  what  has  come  into  the  world  for  lack  of 
justice,  honor  and  religion,  we  need  only  remember  that  it  is  but  thirteen 
years  since  in  the  City  of  Paris  the  governments  of  nearly  all  the  nations 
of  the  world  united  with  their  fellow  governments  in  a  pledge,  covenant 
and  treaty  to  renounce  war  and  to  proceed  to  the  settlement  of  inter- 
national differences  and  disputes  by  means  of  peaceful  discussion  and 
arbitration.  The  leaders  of  some  nations,  contrary  to  these  their  solemn 
and  sacred  pledges,  began  at  once  extensive  preparations  for  war.  The 
democratic  nations,  taking  it  for  granted  that  the  other  powers  were 
honest  and  would  keep  faith,  did  little  in  the  way  of  making  military 
preparations  and  thus  brought  about  the  unfortunate  situation  which 
has  led  to  the  downfall  of  France  and  to  the  appalling  attack  that  is  now 
being  made  on  Great  Britain  and  its  people. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


29 


HOLDING  PISTOL  AT  NEIGHBOR'S  HEAD 

Is  using  force  the  wise  way  of  proceeding  to  get  even  that  which 
may  be  fairly  and  justly  due?  All  truly  civilized  peoples  around  the 
world  will  unitedly  answer,  "No."  Babson  is  probably  right  when  he 
says: 

Anything  gained  today  by  holding  a  pistol  at  your  neighbor's  head 
will  surely  be  lost  tomorrow. 

We  must  in  our  country  do  away  with  those  activities  which  are 
carried  on  for  selfish  and  for  personal  interests  with  little  or  no  regard 
for  human  personality  or  for  the  good  and  welfare  of  the  people  or  of 
the  nation.  Pressure  methods,  mob  rule,  whatever  its  form,  must  be 
overcome  if  we  are  to  preserve  our  form  of  government.  It  was  internal 
dissension,  lack  of  unity,  yes,  it  was  the  lack  of  the  spiritual  values  of 
which  I  am  speaking  that  brought  ruin  to  that  once  great,  powerful  and 
glorious  French  Republic. 

PLEDGES  FLAGRANTLY  DISHONORED 

What  a  sorry  condition  our  world  is  in  when  in  it  there  are  nations 
whose  promises  and  pledges  are  flagrantly  and  openly  dishonored !  Such 
actions  lead  only  to  the  making  of  new  agreements  whose  terms  contain 
provisions  of  ever-increasing  severity  and  harshness.  There  appears  to 
be  no  limit  to  the  demands  which  some  government  officials  make  of 
their  victims.  Conditions  today  in  many  conquered  countries  are  bad, 
but  it  appears  they  will  continue  to  grow  worse.  The  rights  promised 
to  the  conquered  people  may,  at  any  moment,  be  taken  away  because  of 
the  lack  of  integrity  on  the  part  of  the  conquerors.  The  plan  seems  to 
be  to  so  lower  the  morale  of  these  unfortunate  ones  as  to  make  them 
positively  helpless. 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  FREEDOM 

Our  national  defense  program  sets  forth  the  idea  of  our  giving 
assistance  to  those  who  are  struggling  to  secure  a  world  order  built  on 
such  moral  foundations  of  justice,  cooperation,  freedom  and  unselfish- 
ness that  war  will  be  impossible  and  will  be  done  away  with  forever ; 
that  the  light  of  liberty  shall  not  be  extinguished,  that  the  blessings  of 
peace  and  freedom  shall  be  preserved,  and  that  all  people  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  living  together  as  equals.  We  are  struggling  to  maintain 
our  five  great  fundamental  individual  liberties,  namely,  freedom  of  re- 
ligion, freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the  press,  freedom  of  assembly, 
and  freedom  to  petition  the  government  for  redress  of  grievances. 

NATURAL  ABILITY  RICHLY  REWARDED 

Our  country  has  had  an  unparalleled  development  and  growth  be- 
cause here  in  this  land  of  freedom  men  and  women  who  exhibit  excep- 
tional ability  and  capacity  for  achievement  are  given  an  opportunity  to 
rise  quickly  to  positions  and  opportunities  of  ever-increasing  importance. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Dap 

President  Nicholas  Murray  Butler  says  that  of  the  chief  administrative 
officers  of  twelve  of  the  greatest  railway  companies  in  our  country,  five 
began  their  services  as  clerks,  two  as  office  boys,  one  as  fireman,  one  as 
locomotive  engineer,  one  as  a  track  laborer,  one  as  a  stenographer,  one 
as  a  telegraph  operator,  and  one  as  a  rodman  in  a  surveying  party.  This 
indicates  how  in  a  free  country  opportunities  and  positions  of  the  highest 
order  are  open  to  those  who  possess  exceptional  native  ability. 

LEADERS  COMPETENT  AND  RIGHTEOUS 

The  right  to  work,  to  earn  and  to  save,  and  the  right  by  the  use  of 
savings  to  increase  productive  power  and  thus  to  provide  the  ever- 
increasing  number  of  human  needs  is  a  fundamental  of  our  form  of 
government  which  we  must  preserve.  The  liberty  of  which  I  speak  and 
the  Christian  ideals  which  are  its  foundation  will  carry  civilization 
forward  swiftly  generation  after  generation  if  we  can  but  have  the 
leadership  of  those  who  as  leaders  are  the  most  competent  and  the  most 
righteous.  Progress  and  development  depend  upon  the  ability,  the 
capability  for  achievement  and  the  high  moral  and  religious  standards 
of  those  who  lead. 

WHICH  ?  FIGHT  OR  ARBITRATE 

Need  I  ask  you  or  people  generally  which  is  right  and  righteous, 
which  is  wise,  which  conforms  to  the  methods  of  modern  education  and 
civilization, — to  fight  or  to  arbitrate?  One  is  the  method  of  force,  the 
other  the  method  of  intelligence  and  reason ;  one  the  method  of  the  brain- 
less beast,  the  other  the  method  of  man  who  is  created  in  the  image  of 
God. 

LEAST  MAY  BE  GREATEST 

Our  own  Church  is  a  well-nigh  perfect  example  of  true  democracy. 
Our  Bishops,  our  Stake  Presidents,  other  Ward  and  Stake  officials,  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  our  missionaries  may  come  from 
any  or  all  of  the  various  walks  of  life.  No  one  in  the  Church  occupies 
a  place  so  humble  that  he  cannot  find  ample  opportunity  somewhere  in 
this  organization  to  exercise  his  leadership  if  he  has  a  good  character 
and  if  by  nature  he  has  been  blessed  with  unusual  ability  to  lead. 

IN  UNITY  THERE  IS  STRENGTH 

And  it  is  not  only  the  right  but  the  duty  of  the  officials  in  the  Church 
to  use  the  ability  and  intelligence  the  Creator  has  given  them.  These 
leaders  are  expected  when  matters  are  being  discussed  to  express  their 
own  personal  views  fully  and  completely.  But  when  a  majority  of  any 
Church  group  has  reached  a  decision,  that  decision  becomes  the  decision 
of  the  whole  group  and  all  are  expected  to  sustain  that  decision  whether 
or  not  it  agrees  with  their  original  views.  Our  Church  people  realize 
that  in  unity  there  is  strength  and  that  a  house  divided  against  itself 
cannot  stand. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN  N I  ON 


31 


FREEDOM  AND  JUSTICE  FOR  ALL 

Let  us  therefore  forever  unite  in  our  prayers  and  in  our  efforts  to 
preserve  that  great  principle  of  "freedom  and  justice  for  all"  for  which 
our  forefathers  so  nobly  fought,  so  freely  bled  and  in  many  cases  gave 
their  lives  so  gloriously  on  the  field  of  honor.  Let  us  stand  for  and 
practice  that  dependability  which  Dr.  Thomas  Nixon  Carver  calls  the 
greatest  modern  saving  device.  Let  us  be  honest,  let  us  be  true,  let  us 
try  to  be  unselfish  and  struggle  always  to  do  good  to  all  men.  Accord- 
ing to  the  standard  set  for  the  Boy  Scouts,  let  us  do  our  daily  good  turn, 
let  us  help  other  people  at  all  times  and  may  we  by  thus  practicing  the 
teachings  of  real  religion  acquire  truly  a  genuine  spiritual  regeneration 
and  know  and  feel  in  our  hearts  that  love  of  Christ  which  passeth 
knowledge,  that  peace  of  God  which  passeth  all  understanding,  I  humbly 
pray. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Thanks  to  President  McKay  for  the  few  moments  of  warning.  It 
is  said  that  to  be  forewarned  is  to  be  forearmed,  but  I  am  a  little  doubt- 
ful about  it  now. 

APPRECIATION  OF  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

I  was  very  much  impressed  this  morning  with  that  rich  testimony 
that  came  to  us  from  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  do  not  know  how 
many  of  us  regard  his  testimony  as  we  should  do — the  testimony  of 
a  prophet  of  God.  As  I  looked  at  him  I  thought  of  the  prophets  of  old. 
They  occupied  no  greater  position  than  does  he,  if  as  great,  for  in  these 
the  latter  days  many,  many  wonderful  things  have  been  revealed  and 
inaugurated  that  were  not  heard  of  in  the  ancient  order  of  the  Church, 
in  the  centuries  that  are  past.  To  me  his  message  was  most  impressive, 
and  I  marveled  at  his  strength. 

I  believe  if  there  ever  was  a  time  when  men  and  women  should  hold 
to  the  principles  of  truth  and  be  absolutely  genuine  in  their  endeavors 
and  in  their  appeals  to  the  Lord,  it  is  now.  And  it  gives  us  all  renewed 
faith  and  courage  to  behold  a  man  like  President  Grant,  whose  many 
years  of  righteous  living  have  made  him  so  valuable  to  the  children  of 
men,  not  only  in  this  Church,  but  out  of  the  Church ;  all  men  must  be 
profited  by  listening  to  him. 

PREPARATION  FOR  COMING  EVENTS  STRESSED 

I  was  greatly  impressed  by  those  words  of  President  Clark  that  we 
should  prepare  for  the  great  things  that  are  coming.  There  are  organiza- 
tions that  are  formed  now,  that,  it  is  claimed,  will  serve  as  a  cushion  when 
the  fall  comes,  and  it  will  come,  for  there  cannot  be  a  continuation  of 
conditions  as  they  now  exist,  there  never  can  be  a  government  of  peace 
under  the  present  propaganda.  It  is  the  thing  that  has  rocked  the  old 
world  and  put  it  in  the  war,  and,  unless  a  change  takes  place,  it  will  throw 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Dag 

this  country  into  conflict  just  as  surely  as  we  are  here.  Nothing  but  the 
supreme  power  of  God  can  withstand  the  blow  that  is  to  come,  and  I 
take  it  He  will  very  likely  allow  men  to  carry  on  as  they  will.  But  here 
in  this  Church  we  know  the  truth.  Here  we  sit  in  council  and  in  con- 
ference. Here  we  are  well  informed,  and  we  do  not  need  to  do  any 
guessing  about  it.  We  know  that  just  as  surely  as  the  world  is  at  war, 
just  so  surely  will  this  country  be  thrown  into  conflict,  unless  the  power 
of  right  prevails.  Only  those  who  are  prepared  will  be  able  to  stand. 

This  Church  must  be  held  as  a  unit  of  the  great  commonwealth 
of  the  country.  Men  and  women  must  stand  by  the  principles  and  ideals 
of  this  Church,  and  they  must  know  the  things  whereof  they  speak.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that  nothing  but  pure  knowledge  will  save  a 
man,  and  that  means  there  is  a  great  deal  of  knowledge  in  this  world 
that  is  not  pure  or  good  or  genuine.  But  the  wise  use  of  pure  knowl- 
edge will  save  men. 

THE  GOSPEL  RESTORED  IN  POWER 

The  plan  of  salvation  .has  been  outlined  carefully  for  us.  There 
is  not  a  man  or  a  woman  who  holds  membership  in  this  Church  but  who 
knows  in  his  heart,  with  all  the  surety  that  can  be  crowded  into  a  mind 
and  heart,  that  the  Lord  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  ;  that  that  boy  received 
the  revelations  that  he  said  he  did,  and  the  visitation  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son ;  and  that  he  was  so  filled  with  the  power  of  God  that  he  carried 
with  him  that  influence  so  long  as  he  lived  in  the  earth.  He  left  his 
testimony,  he  left  the  written  word,  he  gave  to  the  children  of  men  so 
much  doctrine  that  as  long  as  the  earth  stands  they  will  not  be  able  to 
consume  or  understand  it  all,  for  those  principles  were  pertaining  to 
eternal  life,  as  well  as  here.  This  is  the  preparatory  state. 

QUOTATIONS  FROM  PRESIDENTS  OF  THE  CFIURCH 

I  want  to  read  something  that  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  from 
this  stand  some  years  ago: 

"Men  and  women  should  become  settled  in  the  truth  and  founded  in 
a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  depending  upon  no  person  for  borrowed  light, 
but  trusting  only  upon  the  Holy  Spirit,  who  is  ever  the  same,  shining 
forth  and  forever  testifying  to  the  endurance  of  the  Priesthood,  who 
live  in  harmony  with  the  laws  of  the  Gospel,  of  the  glory  and  will  of 
the  Father.  They  will  then  have  light  everlasting  which  cannot  be 
obscured.  By  its  shining  in  their  lives  they  will  cause  others  to  glorify 
God,  and  by  their  well-doing  put  to  silence  the  ignorance  of  foolish  men, 
and  show  forth  the  praises  of  Him  who  hath  called  them  out  of  darkness 
into  His  marvelous  light." 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  said  not  long  ago  : 

"No  people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  have  ever  been  blessed  as 
have  been  the  Latter-day  Saints.  No  other  people  have  ever  had  the 
manifestations  of  kindness  and  mercy  and  long-suffering  of  God,  that 
have  been  bestowed  upon  us,  and  we,  above  all  men  and  women  upon  the 
earth,  should  live  God-like  and  upright  lives. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  33 


STUDY  OF  THE  WORD  OF  GOD  URGED 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  these  principles  of  salvation  which  the 
Lord  has  revealed,  and  which  He  renews  constantly  unto  us,  through 
the  voices  of  His  prophets,  are  the  word  of  God  unto  us.  I  am  wondering 
if  this  group  of  people  known  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  read  the  doctrines 
of  Christ  as  they  ought  to  read  them.  I  am  wondering  if  we  put  in  as 
much  time  studying  and  re-reading  as  we  should. 

Jesus  said: 

I  am  the  way,  the  truth  and  the  light.  No  man  cometh  unto  the 
Father  but  by  me. 

And  He  also  said : 

Search  the  scriptures,  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life,  and 
they  are  they  which  testify  of  me. 

I  wonder  how  many  of  us  read  the  Book  ,0/  Mormon  and  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  the  revelations  of  God 
that  come  to  us  by  way  of  speech  and  sermon  and  in  song. 

KNOWLEDGE  OF  CHURCH  HISTORY  IMPORTANT 

I  think  we  are  facing  today  a  crisis  that  the  Church  has  never  faced 
before.  There  are  so  many  things  in  this  world  that  lead  men  and  women 
astray,  that  lead  the  youth  of  Zion  away  from  us — propaganda  and 
vicious  habits,  things  that  have  not  had  such  sway  in  the  world  before 
as  they  do  at  the  present  time.  I  wonder  if  men  with  families  have 
provided  themselves  with  enough  reading  matter  so  that  their  sons  and 
daughters  may  be  informed  as  to  the  conditions  of  things  that  have 
happened  and  that  will  happen,  according  to  the  revelations  of  God.  How 
many  of  us  have  the  History  of  the  Church  in  our  homes,  the  docu- 
mentary evidence  of  the  Church.  In  that  history  we  shall  find  a  record  of 
the  hand  dealing  of  God  with  this  people,  from  the  days  of  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  until  the  time  of  Brigham  Young ;  the 
foundation  principles  that  brought  into  existence  the  revelations  con- 
tained in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  organization  of  the  Church,  the 
trials  of  the  members  of  the  Church  in  Nauvoo  and  in  Missouri,  and 
their  trips  back  and  forth  into  Kirtland. 

Many  boys  and  girls  there  are  who  are  attending  the  schools  of  our 
country,  who  pay  no  attention  at  all  to  these  wonderful  references.  The 
history  of  the  Church,  which  records  the  manifestations  of  God  and  the 
revelations  which  He  has  given,  should  be  where  young  people  can  read 
it,  and  where  men  and  women  can  review  it. 

In  their  reading  they  should  seek  the  Holy  Spirit,  it  is  the  power 
of  God ;  it  is  the  thing  that  gives  unto  the  children  of  men  knowledge. 
"No  man  speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus  accursed ;  and  no 
man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

The  Holy  Ghost  ministers  unto  the  children  of  men,  and  it  will 
bear  testimony  to  any  boy  or  girl  who  will  read  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church  and  the  scriptures,  and  who  will  do  it  soberly,  with  a  desire  to 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

know.  It  will  give  unto  them  a  testimony,  even  though  they  be  young. 
And  to  those  who  are  old,  it  will  enlarge  their  circle  of  understanding.  It 
will  establish  faith  in  our  hearts,  and  by  that  faith  we  will  prepare  for 
the  future  that  awaits  us  in  this  life,  and  will  be  made  strong  to  meet  the 
trials  ahead.  It  will  be  the  thing  that  will  help  each  and  every  one  of 
us  to  say,  I  listen  and  I  obey  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  I  will  do 
my  very  best  to  sustain  and  establish  the  cause  of  Christ. 

Out  of  this  knowledge  comes  power,  and  when  men  have  knowl- 
edge and  they  want  to  use  that  power  that  comes  from  it,  they  can  do  it 
in  their  homes,  in  their  fields,  in  places  of  business,  and  in  places  where 
they  are  thrown  together  among  men  who  do  not  believe  as  we  do.  We 
will  have  the  power  of  truth  and  cannot  be  swerved. 

A  TESTIMONY  AS  TO  THE  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Brothers  and  sisters,  my  time,  I  am  sure,  is  gone.  I  am  happy  to  be 
here.  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  Heber  J. 
Grant  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  as  the  anointed  one  of  our  Eternal 
Father,  to  give  and  to  lead  and  to  guide;  and  associated  with  him  are 
his  Counselors  and  the  Twelve,  and  all  who  are  assisting  in  the  leadership 
of  the  Church.  If  we  stand  by  them  we  will  carry  out  the  plan  of  our 
eternal  Father,  and  I  pray  that  we  may  do  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  great  source  of  joy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with 
you  today  and  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Conference.  I  pray  that  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  may  attend  me  in  what  I  shall  say,  that 
I  may  say  those  things  that  are  in  harmony  with  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  which  we  have  espoused.  I  rejoice  greatly  in  this 
conference.  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  be  with  you  today,  and  to  hear 
the  fine  testimonies  that  have  been  borne,  the  wonderful  instructions 
that  have  been  given  by  those  who  have  spoken. 

I  have  been  greatly  impressed,  especially  by  the  testimony  of 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  a  very  remarkable  testimony,  it  seems 
to  me,  that  he  has  given  to  us  today,  and  the  work  that  he  has 
accomplished.  He  is  indeed  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  and  has  declared 
unto  us  the  principles  of  truth  which  we  have  had  occasion  to 
espouse,  and  which  we  are  attempting  to  carry  out  to  the  very  best 
of  our  ability.  I  rejoice  in  all  the  things  that  have  been  said  and 
done. 

EXPRESSES  DESIRE  TO  LIVE  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  observance  of 
every  principle  of  the  Gospel,  to  the  very  best  of  my  ability,  in 
harmony  with  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  I  desire,  as  far  as  it  is  in 
my  power,  to  do  my  part  for  the  advancement  of  this  work.  I 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


35 


rejoice  with  you  today.  I  have  a  great  desire  to  live  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness,  to  the  very  best  of  my  ability.  I 
realize  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  given  instructions  so  that  we  may 
understand  and  carry  out  in  our  lives  these  principles.  I  am 
heartily  in  accord  with  everything  that  has  been  said,  every  instruc- 
tion that  has  been  given  to  us. 

I  endeavor,  to  the  very  best  of  my  understanding  and  power, 
to  live  up  to  every  commandment,  every  principle  of  the  Gospel.  I 
have  great  faith  and  testimony  in  every  revelation  the  Lord  has 
given  to  us.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  law  of  tithing  is  indeed 
a  principle  of  promise  and  blessing,  a  principle  that  should  bp  fully 
espoused  and  carried  out  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  My  desire  is  to 
live  the  Gospel  in  every  respect,  to  be  careful  and  faithful  in  the 
observance  of  the  principle  of  Fast  offering,  and  everything  that 
the  Lord  has  made  plain  to  us,  because  I  am  sure  that  every  principle 
of  the  Gospel  that  the  Lord  has  given  is  so  easy  to  live,  if  we  but 
have  a  desire  and  willingness  to  conform  to  it.  We  have  no  oc- 
casion to  be  backward  or  careless  in  the  observance  of  these  prin- 
ciples. 

TESTIMONY  AS  TO  THE  OBSERVANCE  OF  THE  LAW  OF  TITHING 

I  can  state  that  the  law  of  tithing  is  a  very"  easy  principle,  in 
my  opinion.  I  have  never  had  any  difficulty  in  observing  that  prin- 
ciple, because  I  know  it  is  true.  I  know  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
accompany  the  observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing.  The  Lord 
gives  great  blessings  to  every  one  who  observes  it,  and  I  am  sure 
that  we,  as  a  people,  can  appreciate  the  benefits  and  blessings  that 
come  to  us  by  the  observance  of  this  principle  and  every  other 
principle  that  the  Lord  has  given,  because  they  are  intended  for 
our  welfare. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  THE  LAWS  OF  THE  GOSPEL  BRINGS  BLESSINGS 

I  have  never  had  the  least  difficulty  in  observing  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  I  realize  that  there  are  great  blessings  attached  to  the 
observance  of  that  principle.  The  Lord  desires  us  so  to  live  that 
we  may  have  His  blessings  continually,  to  walk  in  His  paths,  to 
live  His  laws.  To  live  these  principles  is  so  easy,  comparatively, 
and  yet  so  important  and  so  vital  to  our  welfare  and  progress.  Every 
member  of  the  Church  should  be  willing  to  observe  these  things 
readily,  promptly  and  faithfully,  and  realize  the  blessings  that 
follow  the  observance  of  these  things. 

Now  I  desire  to  say  to  you  again  that  in  the  matter  of  every 
other  principle  the  Lord  has  given,  I  am  desirous  of  living  each 
principle.  I  have  never  had  difficulty  in  observing  them.  I  am 
trying  to  do  that  which  the  Lord  has  asked  of  us,  as  fully  as  pos- 
sible, as  faithfully  as  possible.  I  realize  that  these  blessings  are  to 
be  given  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  and  his  family,  and  I  have  en- 
deavored, to  the  very  best  of  my  ability,  with  my  family,  to  live  in 
harmony  with  the  observance  of  all  these  principles. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

I  have  experienced  great  joy  and  satisfaction  through  the  observ- 
ance of  these  things  to  the  very  best  of  my  ability.  To  Sister 
Cannon  it  has  been  a  very  easy  thing  to  observe  the  principle  of 
tithing,  to  fully  observe  it  and  carry  it  out,  and  she  has  had  great 
blessings  in  doing  it,  also  our  children,  every  one  of  the  family,  who 
tries  to  do  these  things.  We  have  endeavored  to  teach  all  of  our 
children  so  they  will  realize  the  great  blessings  that  will  come  to 
them  through  these  things.  Inasmuch  as  they  will  do  right,  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  will  attend  them.  These  are  eternal  principles. 
They  are  divine,  and  are  intended  for  our  welfare  and  progress. 

RESTORATION  OF  THE  AARONIC  PRIESTHOOD 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  few  words  from  section  thirteen 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  In  the  beginning  of  the  work  which 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  did,  under  instructions  from  the  Lord, 
he  was  given  the  opportunity  to  receive  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
We  read,  in  the  introduction  to  Section  13,  of  the  ordination  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  in 
Harmony,  Susquehanna  County,  Pennsylvania,  May  15th,  1829, 
under  the  hands  of  an  angel,  who  announced  himself  as  John,  the 
same  that  is  called  John  the  Baptist  in  the  New  Testament.  The 
angelic  visitant  averred  that  he  was  acting  under  the  direction  of 
Peter,  James  and  John,  the  ancient  Apostles  who  held  the  keys  of 
the  Higher  Priesthood,  which  was  called  the  Priesthood  of  Mel- 
chizedek. 

The  promise  was  given  to  Joseph  and  Oliver  that  in  due  time 
the  Priesthood  of  Melchizedek  would  be  conferred  upon  them.  John 
the  Baptist  conferred  the  authority  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  upon 
these  men  in  the  following  words : 

Upon  you,  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah  I  confer 
the  Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of 
angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again  from 
the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto  the 
Lord  in  righteousness. 

That  great  blessing  was  given  to  them  at  that  time,  and  was 
followed  by  the  restoration  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

THE  CHURCH  ORGANIZED  BY  DIVINE  INSTRUCTION 

In  the  twentieth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the 
following  revelation  was  given  to  the  brethren : 

"Revelation  on  Church  Government,  given  through  Joseph 
the  Prophet,  in  April,  1830." 

Preceding  the  giving  of  this  revelation  the  Prophet  wrote : 

We  obtained  of  Him  (Jesus  Christ)  the  following,  by  the  spirit 
of  prophecy  and  revelation,  which  not  only  gave  us  much  informa- 
tion, but  also  pointed  out  to  us  the  precise  day  upon  which,  according 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  37 

to  His  will  and  commandment,  we  should  proceed  to  organize  His 
Church  once  more  here  upon  the  earth. 

The  Lord  again  attested  the  genuineness  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. He  gives  commandments  respecting  baptism.  We  find  des- 
criptions of  duties  of  the  special  officers  of  the  Priesthood,  the 
mode  of  baptism,  the  keeping  of  records  of  the  Church.  The  revela- 
tion begins  with  the  following  words: 

The  rise  of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  these  last  days,  being  one  , 
thousand  eight  hundred  and  thirty  years  since  the  coming  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  the  flesh,  it  being  regularly  organ- 
ized and  established  agreeable  to  the  laws  of  our  country,  by  the  will 
and  commandments  of  God,  in  the  fourth  month,  and  on  the  sixth  day 
of  the  month  which  is  called  April — 

Which  commandments  were  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  Junior,  who 
was  called  of  God,  and  ordained  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  be 
the  first  Elder  of  this  Church; 

And  to  Oliver  Cowdery,  who  was  also  called  of  God,  an  Apostle 
of  Jesus  Christ,  to  be  the  second  Elder  of  this  Church,  and  ordained 
under  his  hand; 

And  this  according  to  the  grace  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  to  whom  be  all  glory,  both  now  and  forever.  Amen. 

After  it  was  truly  manifested  unto  this  first  Elder  that  he  had 
received  a  remission  of  his  sins,  he  was  entangled  again  in  the  vanities 
of  the  world; 

But  after  repenting,  and  humbling  himself  sincerely,  through 
faith,  God  ministered  unto  him  by  an  holy  angel,  whose  countenance 
was  as  lightning,  and  whose  garments  were  pure  and  white  above  all 
other  whiteness; 

And  gave  unto  him  commandments  which  inspired  him; 

And  gave  him  power  from  on  high,  by  the  means  which  were  be- 
fore prepared,  to  translate  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

Which  contains  a  record  of  a  fallen  people,  and  the  fulness  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Gentiles  and  to  the  Jews  also, 

Which  was  given  by  inspiration,  and  is  confirmed  to  others  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  is  declared  unto  the  world  by  them — 

Proving  to  the  world  that  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  true,  and  that 
God  does  inspire  men  and  call  them  to  his  holy  work  in  this  age  and 
generation,  as  well  as  in  generations  of  old, 

Thereby  showing  that  he  is  the  same  God  yesterday,  today  and 
forever.  Amen. 

Therefore,  having  so  great  witnesses,  by  them  shall  the  world  be 
judged,  even  as  many  as  shall  hereafter  come  to  a  knowledge  of  this 
work; 

And  those  who  receive  it  in  faith,  and  work  righteousness,  shall 
receive  a  crown  of  eternal  life; 

But  those  who  harden  their  hearts  in  unbelief,  and  reject  it,  it 
shall  turn  to  their  own  condemnation — 

For  the  Lord  God  has  spoken  it;  and  we,  the  elders  of  the  Church, 
have  heard  and  bear  witness  to  the  words  of  the  glorious  Majesty  on 
high,  to  whom  be  glory  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 

By  these  things  we  know  that  there  is  a  God  in  heaven,  who  is 
infinite  and  eternal,  from  everlasting  to  everlasting  the  same  un- 
changeable God,  the  framer  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  all  things  which 
are  in  them; 

And  that  he  created  man,  male  and  female,  after  his  own  image 
and  in  his  own  likeness,  created  he  them, 

And  gave  unto  them  commandments  that  they  should  love' and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


serve  him,  the  only  living  and  true  God,  and  that  he  should  be  the 
only  being'  whom  they  should  worship. 

But  by  the  transgression  of  these  holy  laws,  man  became  sensual 
and  devilish,  and  became  fallen  man. 

Wherefore  the  Almighty  God  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  as  it 
is  written  in  those  scriptures  which  have  been  given  of  him. 

He  suffered  temptations  but  gave  no  heed  unto  them; 

He  was  crucified,  died,  and  rose  again  the  third  day; 

And  ascended  into  heaven,  to  sit  down  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
Father,  to  reign  with  almighty  power  according  to  the  will  of  the 
,  Father. 

That  as  many  as  would  believe  and  be  baptized  in  his  holy  name, 
and  endure  in  faith  to  the  end,  should  be  saved. 

That  leads  to  a  revelation  given  in  a  section,  where  some  very 
important  instructions  are  given. 


Brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  from  a  revela- 
tion given  by  the  Lord  in  the  hundred  and  twenty-first  section. 
It  is  called  "A  Prayer  and  Prophecies,  written  by  Joseph  the  Seer, 
while  in  Liberty  Jail,  Clay  County,  Missouri,  March  20th,  1839," 
where  he  was  suffering  terrible  experiences,  and  where  he  had  to 
endure  many  hardships,  many  indignities.  He  was  true  and  faithful 
through  it  all,  and  he  received  many  instructions  at  that  time, 
which  are  of  great  concern  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  those 
who  have  in  their  hearts  a  love  of  truth,  justice,  freedom  and 
righteousness.  Let  me  read  you  part  of  that  section : 

A  Prayer  and  Prophecies  written  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  while 
a  prisoner  in  the  jail  at  Liberty,  Missouri,  dated  March  20th,  1839. 

The  Prophet  with  several  companions  had  been  months  in  prison. 
Their  petitions  and  appeals  directed  to  the  executive  officers  and  the 
judiciary  had  failed  to  bring  them  relief.  Fervent  appeals  to  the  Lord 
in  behalf  of  the  suffering  Saiints — The  curse  of  the  Lord  to  fall  upon 
those  who  contend  against  His  will — Men  though  called  may  not  be 
chosen — The  rights  of  the  Priesthood  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaveen — Unrighteous  exercise  of  the  powers  of  the  Priest- 
hood leads  to  apostasy — Powers  of  the  Priesthood  to  be  exercised 
in  justice  and  mercy. 

O  God;  where  art  thou?  And  where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth 
thy  hiding  place? 

How  long  shall  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and  thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure 
eye,  behold  from  the  eternal  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy  people,  and 
of  thy  servants,  and  thine  ear  be  penetrated  with  their  cries? 

Yea,  O  Lord,  how  long  shall  they  suffer  these  wrongs  and  unlaw- 
ful oppressions,  before  thine  heart  shall  be  softened  toward  them,  and 
thy  bowels  be  moved  with  compassion  toward  them? 

O  Lord  God  Almighty,  Maker  of  heaven,  earth,  and  seas,  and 
of  all  things  that  in  them  are,  and  who  controllest  and  subjectest  the 
devil,  and  the  dark  and  benighted  dominion  of  Sheol — stretch  forth 
thy  hand;  let  thine  eye  pierce;  let  thy  pavilion  be  taken  up;  let  thy 
hiding  place  no  longer  be  covered;  let  thine  ear  be  inclined;  let  thine 
heart  be  softened,  and  thy  bowels  moved  with  compassion  toward  us; 

Let  thine  anger  be  kindled  against  our  enemies;  and  in  the  fury 
of  thine  heart,  with  thy  sword  avenge  us  of  our  wrongs. 


REVELATION  GIVEN  IN  LIBERTY  JAIL 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


Remember  thy  suffering  saints,  O  our  God!  and  thy  servants  will 
rejoice  in  thy  name  forever. 

My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  afflic- 
tions shall  be  but  a  small  moment; 

And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high;  thou 
shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes; 

Thy  friends  do  stand  by  thee,  and  they  shall  hail  thee  again  with 
warm  hearts  and  friendly  hands. 

Thou  art  not  yet  as  Job;  thy  friends  do  not  contend  against  thee, 
neither  charge  thee  with  transgression,  as  they  did  Job; 

And  they  who  do  charge  thee  with  transgression,  their  hope  shall 
be  blasted,  and  their  prospects  shall  melt  away  as  the  hoar  frost 
melteth  before  the  burning  rays  of  the  rising  sun; 

And  also  that  God  hath  set  to  his  hand  and  seal  to  change  the 
times  and  seasons,  and  to  blind  their  minds,  that  they  may  not  under- 
stand his  marvelous  workings;  that  he  may  prove  them  also  and  take 
them  in  their  own  craftiness; 

Also,  because  their  hearts  are  corrupted,  and  the  things  which 
they  are  willing  to  bring  upon  others,  and  love  to  have  others  suffer, 
may  come  upon  themselves,  to  the  very  uttermost; 

That  they  may  be  disappointed  also,  and  their  hopes  may  be  cut 

off; 

And  not  many  years  hence,  that  they  and  their  posterity  shall  be 
swept  from  under  heaven,  saith  God,  that  not  one  of  them  is  left  to 
stand  by  the  wall. 

Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine 
anointed,  saith  the  Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they  have 
not  sinned  before  me,  saith  the  Lord,  but  have  done  that  which  was 
meet  in  mine  eyes,  and  which  1  command  them. 

But  those  who  cry  transgression,  do  it  because  they  are  the 
servants  of  sin,  and  are  the  children  of  disobedience  themselves. 

And  those  who  swear  falsely  against  my  servants,  that  they  might 
bring  them  into  bondage,  and  death — 

Woe  unto  them,  because  they  have  offended  my  little  ones,  they 
shall  be  severed  from  the  ordinances  of  mine  house. 

Their  basket  shall  not  be  full,  their  houses  and  their  barns  shall 
perish,  and  they  themselves  shall  be  despised  by  those  that  flattered 
them. 

They  shall  not  have  right  to  the  Priesthood,  nor  their  posterity 
after  them,  from  generation  to  generation. 

It  had  been  better  for  them  that  a  millstone  had  been  hanged 
about  their  necks,  and  they  drowned  in  the  depth  of  the  sea. 

Woe  unto  all  those  that  discomfort  my  people,  and  drive,  and 
murder,  and  testify  against  them,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts;  a  genera- 
tion of  vipers  shall  not  escape  the  damnation  of  hell. 

Behold,  mine  eyes  see  and  know  all  their  works,  and  I  have  in 
reserve  a  swift  judgment  in  the  season  thereof,  for  them  all; 

For  there  is  a  time  appointed  for  every  man,  according  as  his 
works  shall  be. 

God  shall  give  unto  you  (the  saints)  knowledge,  by  his  Holy 
Spirit,  yea,  by  the  unspeakable  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  has  not 
been  revealed  since  the  world  was,  until  now; 

Which  our  forefathers  have  awaited  with  anxious  expectation 
to  be  revealed  in  the  last  times,  which  their  minds  were  pointed  to, 
by  the  angels,  as  held  in  reserve  for  the  fulness  of  their  glory. 

A  time  to  come  in  the  which  nothing  shall  be  withheld,  whether 
there  be  one  God  or  many  Gods,  they  shall  be  manifest. 

All  thrones  and  dominions,  principalities  and  powers,  shall  be 
revealed  and  set  forth  upon  all  who  have  endured  valiantly  for  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Dug 

A  number  of  things  more  were  said  in  the  section. 
I  will  read  a  little  further : 

How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall 
stay  the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to 
stop  the  Missouri  River  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up-stream, 
as  to  hinder  the  Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven, 
upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are 
they  not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this 
world,  and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this 
one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with 
the  powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  con- 
trolled nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to 
exercise  control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens 
withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when 
it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the 
pricks,  to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

We  have  learned,  by  sad  experience,  that  it  is  the  nature  and 
disposition  of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority, 
as  they  suppose,  they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous 
dominion. 

Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue 
of  the  Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness, 
and  meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile.  .  .  . 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to 
the  household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly, 
then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the 
doctrine  of  the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from 
heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy 
scepter  an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy 
dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory 
means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee  for  ever  and  ever. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  to  you  that  the  instructions 
given  are  of  very  great  concern  to  us  all.  Latter-day  Saints,  they 
are  as  important  as  they  were  when  they  were  first  given.  They  are 
of  great  interest,  just  as  much  as  they  were  when  the  revelation  was 
first  given. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  with  you,  and  His  choice 
mercy  to  attend  us  all,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Songs  My  Mother 
Taught  Me" — Dvorak.  Director:  Erma  Steffensen  of  the  Highland 
Stake. 


ELDER  JAMES  JUDD 


41 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  should  like  to  hear  from  Elder  Hilton  A.  Robertson,  former 
President  of  the  Japanese  Mission.  He  was  recently  in  the  hospital.  We 
hope  he  has  sufficiently  recovered ;  and  if  he  is  in  the  audience  will  he 
please  come  forward  and  occupy  one  of  these  seats  on  the  platform,  near 
the  pulpit.  He  performed  an  excellent  mission  in  reopening  the  Japanese 
Mission,  and  we  have  not  heard  his  report  since  he  returned  home. 

ELDER  JAMES  JUDD 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

I  feel  very  humble,  but  yet  I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  of 
reporting  the  Australian  Mission.  Sister  Judd  and  I  are  thankful  to  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  to  the  Presiding  Authorities  of  this  Church, 
that  they  saw  fit  to  call  us  to  go  into  that  foreign  land  as  their  representa- 
tives. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  young  men  that  were  sent  there  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  the  sacrifices  that  their  parents  made,  that  they  might  be  ambas- 
sadors of  truth.  They  were  real  representatives  of  their  families.  They 
were  true  disciples  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  and  they  took  advantage 
of  every  opportunity  that  was  given  them  to  deliver  their  message  to 
those  people  who  were  sitting  in  darkness,  or  who  had  been  misled  by 
men  and  women  who  were  not  familiar  with  our  teachings.  It  was 
surprising  to  me  to  see  the  courage  that  these  young  men  had.  They 
would  meet  up  with  men  and  women  who  had  had  years  of  experience, 
who  had  spent  their  life  in  studying  the  Bible,  but  yet  they  would  approach 
them  and  explain  our  principles  in  a  very  clear  and  convincing  way,  and 
would  leave  an  impression  upon  the  minds  of  those  people. 

I  doubt  very  much  whether,  since  this  Church  was  organized,  we 
have  had  the  publicity  in  the  Australian  Mission  that  we  have  had  the 
past  three  years,  through  the  efforts  of  the  Elders,  and  through  the  help 
which  we  have  received  from  the  various  organizations  here  in  Salt  Lake. 
The  Elders  were  very  active  in  basketball,  and  by  so  doing  it  afforded 
them  an  opportunity  to  associate  with  hundreds  of  young  men.  The 
Australian  people  are  very  broadminded.  They  take  to  every  kind  of 
sports,  and  as  basketball  was  new  to  them  they  were  anxious  to  learn 
the  fundamentals  of  that  game.  Even  the  police  force  of  the  city  of 
Sydney  was  anxious  that  their  younger  members  be  taught  this  game; 
and  the  Chief  of  Police,  in  addressing  about  three  hundred  young  men 
whom  the  Elders  were  going  to  teach  the  game,  said : 

"These  young  Mormon  gentlemen  have  come  from  America.  They 
do  not  smoke ;  they  do  not  partake  of  intoxicating  drinks ;  they  do  not 
profane;  they  do  not  make  vulgar  statements,  and  when  you  are  in 
their  presence  see  that  you  do  likewise." 

Just  before  I  left  Australia,  when  I  was  completing  my  necessary 
papers  to  leave  that  foreign  land,  Chief  Connor  said  to  me : 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

"Do  you  know  when  your  Elders  are  going  to  return  ?  When  they  do, 
the  police  force  of  Sydney  wants  to  be  the  first  to  welcome  them  back  to 
the  shores  of  Australia" — and  the  police  force  is  composed  of  about 
twenty-two  hundred  men. 

Our  teaching  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  having  a  great  effect  upon 
the  minds  of  those  people.  On  one  occasion  there — it  was  on  Boxing 
Day,  which  is  the  day  after  Christmas,  and  one  of  their  most  popular 
holidays,  and  being  summer-time  the  people  go  to  the  ocean  shores  and 
the  beaches  by  the  thousands — we  were  on  Manly  Beach.  The  water  was 
rough,  and  the  life-guards  were  very  active  in  saving  many  that  were 
being  drifted  out  into  the  current.  While  a  number  were  being  drifted 
out  Sister  Judd  tried  to  take  a  moving  picture.  Thousands  on  the  shore 
were  watching  the  scene,  and  while  so  doing  a  young  gentleman  bumped 
into  her.  And  he  turned  around  and  said : 

"Pardon  me!  Ah,  an  American,  huh?"  (If  she  had  been  an  Aus- 
tralian she  would  have  said:  "I  am  sorry.") 

She  said:  "Yes,  and  there  are  a  number  of  others  standing  right 
over  there." 

He  came  over,  thinking  that  he  was  going  to  give  us  a  real  treat. 
He  had  a  package  of  American  cigarettes. 
He  said,  "Have  a  cigarette." 

One  of  the  Elders  said  :  "I  never  smoke."  The  man  made  the  same 
offer  to  the  second,  and  to  the  third.  The  same  reply :  "I  never  smoke." 
He  withdrew  the  package  of  cigarettes,  threw  down  the  one  he  was 
smoking,  and  said : 

"Yes,  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  he  put  out  his  hand  and  shook  the 
hands  of  the  Elders,  and  was  more  pleased  to  meet  them,  because  they 
did  not  smoke,  than  if  they  had  accepted  his  cigarettes.  This  young  man 
had  met,  on  the  shores  of  England,  with  some  of  our  Mormon  Elders. 
He  knew  our  principles. 

At  the  time  the  cablegram  was  received  from  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church  for  the  evacuation  of  all  the  Elders  from  Australia, — five 
days  after  that  message  was  received  all  but  a  very  few  were  on  their 
way  home.  At  that  time  most  of  the  Branches  were  in  charge  of  the 
Elders.  Due  to  their  departure  it  left  most  of  our  Branches  in  a  dis- 
organized condition,  but  the  local  brethren  realized  the  responsibility 
which  was  resting  upon  them.  Every  Branch  was  completely  organized, 
and  they  are  at  the  present  time  very  active  in  carrying  on  their  duties. 
We  have  some  of  the  finest  tithe-payers  there  that  there  are  in  the 
Church.  They  pay  their  other  offerings ;  they  attend  their  meetings ; 
they  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

The  Australian  people  are  a  very  polite  people.  They  are  hospitable 
and  friendly.  They  are  determined,  and  when  they  start  out  to  accomplish 
anything  they  are  going  to  accomplish  it.  I  think  that  that  has  been  well 
proven,  due  to  their  wonderful  fighting  in  the  World  War,  and  also  that 
which  they  are  doing  at  the  present  time.  Due  to  the  war  we  have  been 
robbed  of  a  great  many  of  our  Priesthood.  At  the  present  time  more  than 


ELDER  W.  W.  SEEGMILLER 


43 


twenty-five  percent  of  the  Priesthood  are  in  the  service  of  their  country, 
and  one  who  was  acting  as  a  member  of  a  Branch  presidency  at  the 
commencement  of  the  war  is  at  the  present  time  a  Major  in  the  Australian 
Army,  and  is  in  active  service  in  Lybia. 

The  Mission  is  under  the  leadership  of  President  and  Sister  Elvon 
Orme  and  the  members  there  are  going  to  carry  on.  Sister  Judd  did  a 
wonderful  work  in  the  Relief  Society  there.  She  made  a  great  many 
friends,  not  only  members  of  our  Church,  but  also  outside.  One  of  her 
very  closest  friends  was  a  granddaughter  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
who  was  not  a  member  of  our  Church,  but  she  came  to  our  home  quite  f  re-  . 
quently.  Sister  Judd  gave  her  a  book,  The  Way  to  Perfection,  of  which 
Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  is  the  author,  and  when  she  saw  the  name 
of  the  author  she  said :  "Why,  that  is  my  cousin."  During  a  number  of 
conversations  she  said:  "  I  have  learned  more  of  the  Church  through 
my  visits  to  your  home  than  I  ever  did  before." 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us,  that  we  may  all  be  able  to  accept  any 
position  we  may  be  called  upon  to  fill  by  those  who  are  placed  to  preside 
over  us.  I  know  that  they  are  men  of  God.  I  know  that  they  are  inspired 
to  give  us  the  counsel  and  advice  that  they  are  giving  us  in  these  meetings. 
May  we  accept  it  in  the  same  spirit  in  which  it  is  given,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  W.  W.  SEEGMILLER 

Former  President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

When  Elder  Sylvester  Cannon  talked  about  a  revelation  having 
been  received  in  Liberty  Jail,  I  thought,  what  a  paradoxical  name — 
Liberty  Jail !  Then  I  was  reminded  that  it  is  no  more  paradoxical  than 
many  things  we  do  today  in  the  name  of  liberty.  Again  I  thought, 
sin  is  bondage,  and  righteousness  is  liberty,  so  all  who  would  be  free 
need  only  obey  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  given  by  the 
Prince  of  Peace  and  the  Author  of  Liberty. 

When  I  received  a  telegram  in  Denver,  notifying  me  that  my  suc- 
cessor had  been  appointed,  I  confess  that  I  read  it  with  disconsolate 
feelings.  It  was  not  a  pleasant  thing  to  contemplate  leaving  the  thousands 
of  friends  and  hundreds  of  missionaries  in  the  Western  States  Mission. 
I  loved  my  work.  I  was  engrossed  in  it.  I  felt  that  it  was  my  life,  and  so 
I  confess  disappointment.  But  on  more  mature  consideration  I  became 
firmly  convinced  that  the  decision  of  the  Brethren  that  Mission  Presidents 
shall  be  often  rotated,  released  and  exchanged,  is  the  proper  order,  and 
I  am  sure  that  President  Elbert  R.  Curtis  will  be  a  blessing  to  that 
Mission,  and  that  the  Mission  will  grow  and  advance  more  rapidly 
because  of  his  coming. 

It  was  hard  to  leave  Denver.  I  wondered  just  how  we  would  go 
through  with  it.  But  I  am  happy  to  be  here.  This  is  a  great  privilege. 
I  am  happy  to  be  in  our  humble  little  cottage.  I  am  happy  to  be  in  the 
Bonneville  Ward.  When  the  Bishop  asked  me  what  I  wanted  to  do  there 
I  said :  'Whatever  you  want  me  to  do,"  and  he  notified  me  in  a  few  days 


\ 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

that  I  was  the  Adult  Aaronic  Priesthood  supervisor  of  that  Ward.  I 
had  rather  have  that  position  than  any  other  position  in  the  Ward,  had 
I  felt  at  liberty  to  take  my  choice,  because  I  feel  a  great  opportunity  has 
come  to  me  to  continue  missionary  work. 

When  I  met  with  the  Priesthood  of  Bonneville  Ward  and  Bonneville 
Stake  I  said  to  Sister  Seegmiller :  "Is  there  a  finer  body  of  men  in  the 
world?  If  there  is,  I  don't  know  where  to  find  it."  Could  a  man  be 
associated  with  any  men,  anywhere,  that  it  would  be  such  a  privilege? 
I  cannot  conceive  of  a  place  where  they  could  be. 

The  new  Bonneville  Ward  is  where  I  live,  and  I  am  happy  to  be 
there.  I  am  happy  to  be  here.  I  know  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  true.  Sometimes  I  wonder,  in  the  varied  activities  of  missionaries,  if 
we  forget  that  our  calling  is  to  bear  testimony  that  the  Gospel  has  again 
been  revealed,  that  it  is  here,  and  realize  full  well  that  we  missionaries 
are  disciples  of  Jesus  Christ,  just  the  same  as  was  Peter,  James,  and 
John. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  thing  I  hope  all  new  missionaries 
will  remember  is  that  they  are  called  to  preach  the  Gospel,  that  they  are 
called  to  bear  witness.  It  is  a  simple  thing  to  preach  truth,  because  truth 
is  simple,  truth  is  convincing.  That  is  all  we  have  to  do,  as  missionaries, 
is  to  be  faithful  and  true  and  diligent  and  preach  the  truth. 

I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  hope  that  I  shall  always  have 
strength  to  endure  and  be  active  in  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing  before  you 
this  afternoon.  While  President  Grant  was  giving  his  wonderful  testi- 
mony this  morning,  I  thought  how  happy  our  members  and  friends  in 
the  European  Missions  would  be  if  they  could  have  the  privilege  that  we 
now  have  of  being  in  this  historic  Tabernacle  and  listening  to  the  Prophet 
of  God. 

PROGRESS  BEING  MADE  IN  EUROPEAN  MISSIONS 

In  reporting  for  these  European  Missions  I  am  happy  to  state  that 
headquarters  continue  to  be  maintained  in  ten  of  the  twelve  Missions. 
The  headquarters  of  the  French  Mission  at  Paris  has  been  closed,  but 
we  have  district  headquarters  in  Belgium  and  the  French  part  of  Switzer- 
land, where  more  than  ninety  percent  of  our  French  members  reside. 

The  Palestine-Syrian  Mission  is  also  in  charge  of  two  district 
presidents,  one  at  Aleppo,  Syria,  and  the  other  at  Beirut,  Lebanon.  These 
district  presidents  and  acting  Mission  Presidents  are  all  local  brethren. 
They,  with  their  counselors  or  committees  assisting  them,  are  doing  an 
exceptionally  fine  work.  With  the  exception  of  a  few  of  the  smaller 
Branches,  all  meetings  are  being  held  as  usual.  District  conferences 
are  held  twice  a  year  in  addition  to  an  annual  gathering.  These  yearly 
conferences  or  conventions  generally  last  two  or  three  days. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


45 


SUCCESSFUL  CONFERENCE  OF  DANISH  MISSION 

The  one  held  at  Copenhagen,  headquarters  of  the  Danish  Mission, 
this  year  continued  throughout  the  entire  week.  We  quote  from  the 
acting  President's  report: 

We  have  now  completed  our  tenth  annual  M.  I.  A.  Convention 
which  this  time  covered  a  period  of  one  week.  The  convention  was 
opened  on  June  22  with  two  very  well  attended  meetings  at  10  a.m. 
and  7  p.  m.  Many  Saints  and  friends  had  gathered  from  near  and 
far.  In  spite  of  the  difficulties  the  Saints  willingly  responded  to  the 
invitation  to  attend  the  convention.  The  railway  fares  have  been  raised 
25  per  cent,  it  thus  being  a  rather  heavy  expense  on  the  young  people. 

The  program  for  the  various  arrangements  included  very  won- 
derful meetings,  music,  dance,  excursions,  a  theater  evening  where 
the  King  and  Queen  honored  us  with  their  attendance;  this  was  a 
great  experience  for  many  of  the  visitors,  who  had  never  seen  the 
Sovereigns. 

When  our  visitors  left  Copenhagen  many  of  them  shed  tears  for 
joy,  expressing  their  appreciation  for  the  privilege  which  had  been 
theirs  to  attend  the  best  and  most  spiritual  convention  in  the  Danish 
Mission.  I  am  sure  they  went  home  to  their  Branches  filled  with  this 
one  thought:  To  do  better  in  the  future  and  labor  with  greater  zeal 
and  interest  for  the  marvelous  cause  in  which  they  are  engaged. 

CONFERENCE  AT  LIEGE 

The  following  paragraph  is  taken  from  a  letter  from  the  French 
Mission : 

On  June  8  we  held  the  semi-annual  District  Conference  in  Liege. 
We  held  three  meetings.  After  one,  a  light  meal  (soup,  with  meat, 
vegetables,  and  potatoes)  was  offered  free  of  cost  to  each  member 
and  friend,  thanks  to  members'  gifts.    This  little  thing  is  gold  now. 

We  welcomed  eleven  new  members,  who  were  baptized  and  con- 
firmed— four  men,  five  women,  one  boy  and  one  girl — making  a  total 
of  thirteen  baptisms  since  January.  It  was  a  spiritual  conference,  and 
we  all  felt  the  Holy  Spirit  among  us. 

This  little  meat  that  they  had  at  this  free  meal  was  as  gold  to  them 
now.  You  know,  all  their  letters  are  censored,  so  they  cannot  write 
all  they  would  like  to.  Those  few  words  tell  volumes. 

These  two  reports  are  typical  of  the  encouraging  news  that  comes 
from  all  our  European  Missions.  Nearly  all  of  them  report  baptisms. 
The  amount  of  tithing  and  Fast  offerings  is  quite  generally  maintained 
and  in  at  least  two  of  the  Missions  an  increase  is  shown.  Considerable 
missionary  work  is  still  being  carried  on,  especially  is  this  true  in  the 
British  Mission,  where,  it  is  reported  in  a  letter  just  recently  received, 
there  are  twenty-seven  regular  missionaries  working.  Besides,  over 
three  hundred  home  missionaries  have  been  called  in  the  various  Branches 
and  are  devoting  at  least  one  or  two  evenings  each  week  in  tracting, 
visiting  inactive  members,  selling  and  obtaining  subscriptions  to  the  Star, 
etc. 


\ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dug 


CONFERENCES  IN  BELFAST  AND  DUBLIN 


In  this  letter  also  we  are  given  a  report  from  our  members  in  Ireland, 
from  which  we  quote  the  following: 

Have  just  returned  from  a  visit  to  north  and  south  Ireland,  and 
was  able  to  hold  two  separate  conferences  in  Belfast  and  Dublin.  The 
Dublin  Saints  are  all  very  fine,  and  are  supporting  continually  one 
missionary  in  the  field. 

The  Belfast  Saints  have  suffered  somewhat  badly  in  a  recent  air 
raid.  None  of  them  has  suffered  any  injury  or  death;  some  of  them, 
however,  lost  some  of  their  belongings.  In  one  case  a  complete  home 
was  destroyed.  Some  of  our  members  have  had  miraculous  escapes. 
Members  in  England,  Scotland,  Wales,  and  Ireland  are  all  well.  Slight 
damage  was  done  by  enemy  action  to  premises  No.  16. 

The  district  conferences  held  in  the  Swiss  Mission  were,  considering 
the  unusual  conditions  that  prevail,  especially  well  attended.  At  Zurich 
there  were  over  600  present ;  at  Berne  about  500 ;  and  at  Basel,  650.  The 
mission  publications  from  the  British,  Norwegian,  Swedish,  Danish, 
Netherlands,  and  South  African  Missions  are  being  received  quite 
regularly.  We  also  receive  letters,  but  not  quite  so  often,  from  the  East 
and  West  German  Missions,  Czechoslovakian  and  Palestine-Syrian 
Missions.  All  letters  come  air  mail,  via  the  Clipper,  and  with  the  exception 
of  those  from  the  French-Swiss  district  and  the  Swiss  Mission,  all  are 
censored. 


The  acting  Mission  Presidents,  the  District  Presidents,  and  our 
brethren  and  sisters  assisting  them  are  all  doing  exceptionally  fine  work. 
We  are  proud  of  them.  They  express  appreciation  to  all,  and  especially 
are  they  grateful  to  the  First  Presidency  for  what  they  have  done  and  are 
doing  in  their  behalf. 


They  appreciated  very  much  the  visit  of  President  Grant.  Oh,  how 
grateful  I  am  now  that  he  visited  all  of  those  Missions,  that  our  people 
there  had  the  opportunity,  many  of  them,  of  meeting  him  and  shaking 
hands  with  him,  and  all  of  them — including  hundreds  of  friends — of 
hearing  his  wonderful  testimony !  What  a  comfort  and  what  a  strength 
that  is  to  them  now  in  this  time  of  trial ! 

LOVE  OF  THE  GOSPEL  IN  THE  HEARTS  OF  THE  EUROPEAN  SAINTS 

I  believe  sometimes  that  they  even  appreciate  the  Gospel  more  than 
we  do  here  at  home,  the  way  they  attend  their  meetings,  their  sacrament 
meetings,  their  testimony  meetings.  No  time  is  wasted  there,  when  they 
have  an  opportunity  to  bear  testimony.  They  love  the  Gospel  and  are 
doing  their  very  best  to  live  it.  They  not  only  say :  "We  believe  in  being 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men," 
but  they  are  trying  to  live  those  principles  in  their  lives.  What  a  wonder- 
ful influence  for  good  in  the  world  it  would  be  if  all  Latter-day  Saints 


PRAISE  FOR  ACTING  MISSION  PRESIDENTS 


PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  VISIT 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN  47 


could  not  only  say  "We  believe  these  things,"  but  could  truthfully  say, 
"We  are  honest ;  we  are  true ;  we  are  chaste  ;  we  are  benevolent ;  we  are 
doing  good  to  all  men,"  if  we  could  in  very  truth  say,  "If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these 
things ;  we  are  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  we  are  keeping  the  Sabbath 
Day  holy ;  we  are  paying  our  tithes  and  our  offerings."  Such  an  example 
would  do  more  good  than  all  the  preaching  we  are  now  doing. 

Oh,  Latter-day  Saints,  where  much  is  given,  it  is  said,  much  is 
required.  These  principles  have  been  given  to  us,  and  if  we  could  only 
live  them ;  you  cannot  estimate  the  good  that  it  would  do  throughout  the 
world  if  truthfully  it  could  be  said  we  are  living  these  principles.  They 
are  given  to  us  for  our  happiness  here  upon  this  earth. 

A  SINCERE  TESTIMONY 

God  lives,  brethren  and  sisters.  He  is  our  Father.  We  are  all 
His  children.  He  loves  us,  even  as  we  love  our  children,  only  He  has  a 
greater  capacity  for  love.  Because  He  loves  us  He  has  given  us  these 
principles  to  make  us  happy  here  in  this  life.  "Man  is  that  he  might  have 
joy,"  we  are  told.  I  want  to  testify  to  you  brethren  and  sisters  this  after- 
noon that  if  we  lived  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  in  these  days 
we  would  have  joy  in  this  life;  we  would  have  a  heaven  here  upon  this 
earth,  because  all  these  principles  are  given  to  us  for  our  happiness  and 
our  joy  in  this  life,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  wait  until  the  life  to  come. 
We  would  have  love  at  home,  and  "there  is  beauty  all  around  when 
there's  love  at  home." 

I  testify  to  you  in  all  sincerity  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  all  those 
who  have  succeeded  him  have  been  prophets  of  God  to  His  people  in  this 
day.  How  grateful  I  am  for  the  association  of  President  Grant !  No  one 
can  estimate  the  good  that  he  has  done,  not  only  here  among  his  people, 
but  throughout  the  world ;  the  better  public  relations  that  have  been 
brought  about  by  his  contact  with  thousands  of  business  men  in  all  capaci- 
ties, at  gatherings  of  all  kinds,  conventions,  meetings,  and  banquets  given 
by  Chambers  of  Commerce,  where  after  his  talks  all  have  arisen  in  a 
body  and  cheered  at  length  because  of  his  faith-inspiring  remarks.  I 
want  to  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  he  is  appreciated  and  loved, 
not  only  here  at  home  but  abroad,  and  especially  by  our  brethren  and 
sisters  in  our  European  Missions. 

May  our  Father  in  Heaven  continue  to  bless'  him,  our  people  in 
war-torn  Europe,  and  all  of  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Former  President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

To  stand  in  this  position  before  this  tremendous  audience,  subdues 
one's  spirit  and  one's  feelings.  I  cannot  stand  here  and  behold  this  great 
building,  without  thinking  of  the  sacrifice,  and  the  wisdom  and  the 
genius  that  went  into  it,  by  that  generation  which  preceded  us.  It  is 


\ 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

still  a  commodious,  pleasant,  wonderful  place  to  meet.  I  don't  know 
where  we  can  go  and  find  more  spiritual  uplift,  more  inspiration,  than 
we  can  receive  here  from  time  to  time  in  these  wonderful  Conferences. 

As  my  wife,  Sister  Christiansen,  and  I  approached  this  Block  this 
morning,  and  saw  silhouetted  against  the  sky  the  form  of  the  Angel  Moro- 
ni, I  said  to  her:  "Think  of  the  significance!  Doesn't  he  look  majestic?" 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  go  away  and  then  return  to  Zion  and 
participate  here  we  learn  to  appreciate  more  deeply  the  significance  of 
the  things  upon  this  Block.  I  couldn't  help  but  think  of  what  that  figure 
represents, — the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  last 
time,  for  the  benefit  of  man,  for  his  edification  and  for  his  salvation. 

Joseph  Smith,  a  simple,  humble  boy,  was  the  servant  of  God  in 
filling  this  great  mission.  He  was  an  ordinary  young  man,  with  a  very 
ordinary  name — Smith — and  yet  the  work  that  he  did  was  not  at  all 
ordinary,  for  he  was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  bringing 
about  one  of  the  greatest  episodes  that  has  ever  come  to  the  children  of 
men  since  the  time  of  the  Savior — I  suppose  the  greatest  since  that  time. 
His  name  is  honored  and  revered.  Also  his  name  is  talked  against.  But, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  can  very  well  sing : 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah ! 

Jesus  anointed  that  Prophet  and  Seer — 
Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation  ; 

Kings  shall  extol  him,  and  nations  revere. 

Some  people  ask:  "If  what  Joseph  Smith  did,  and  what  you  claim, 
is  divine  and  of  God,  why  is  it  that  there  was  so  much  persecution,  and 
has  been  so  much  ridicule  in  the  past  ?  Why  is  it  that  this  thing  had  such 
a  struggle,  and  has  been  so  despised"  ? 

To  answer  that  question  all  we  need  to  do  is  to  ask  another :  Why 
was  Wycliffe  tormented  and  driven  and  persecuted,  and  why  were  his 
books  found  and  burned  ?  Wycliffe,  as  you  know,  translated  the  Bible 
into  the  English  language.  Why  was  Tyndale,  who  also  translated  it 
from  the  Greek  language,  hunted  and  persecuted  by  his  enemies  ?  Why 
should  there  be  such  a  tremendous  force  against  the  work  of  these  two 
men  ?  Surely  there  was  nothing  in  the  Bible  that  would  destroy  any  one, 
or  their  faith  or  their  integrity.  Why  were  the  bones  of  the  man  I  first 
named,  finally  dug  up  and  thrown  into  the  river?  Why  was  Tyndale 
burned  at  the  stake  for  what  he  did  ?  They  suffered  the  martyr's  crown 
for  doing  the  work  that  God  had  foreordained  them  to  do. 

So  with  Joseph  Smith  and  his  work  in  translating  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  He  suffered  the  martyr's  crown,  as  did  these  great  men,  and 
because  this  happened  to  him  is  no  reason  that  the  work  he  did  is  not 
of  God.  If  I  were  on  the  outside  and  knew  what  I  know  now,  I  would 
begin  to  investigate  because  of  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions  that 
this  people  had  in  the  early  days,  and  because  Joseph  Smith  and  his 
brother  were  martyred  for  the  cause  that  they  espoused ;  because 
wherever  there  is  driving  of  any  extent  you  might  look  and  find  that 
it  is  the  work  of  God  that  is  being  driven  by  the  adversary  of  all  good. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN  49 


And  so  it  was  with  the  Church,  and  so  it  was  with  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
which  has  been  so  much  ridiculed. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  report  that  I  make  at  this  time  is  the 
last  official  report  I  shall  make  as  former  President  of  the  Texas  Mission. 
I  do  it  in  all  humility  and  with  thanks  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
blessings  unnumbered  that  He  has  given  to  me  and  my  wife  and  my 
family.  I  was  overwhelmed  when  the  call  came,  but  I  have  always 
believed  that  the  Lord  would  make  us-  ready  for  those  things  which  He 
calls  us  to  do,  if  we  are  willing  to  accept  the  call. 

We  have  formed  a  great  and  beautiful  association  of  and  a  friend- 
ship with  those  wonderful  people  in  Texas  and  Louisiana.  I  too  can  say 
that  they  love  the  Gospel  most  dearly.  They  will  travel  miles  and  miles 
to  hear  it  and  to  partake  of  it  and  to  listen  to  the  word  of  the  Lord 
spoken  by  the  Elders.  We  have  one  branch  away  out  in  the  west  plains 
of  Texas,  where  we  found  one  family  and  soon  located  others,  that 
meets  every  Sunday.  Five  of  these  families  travel  from  thirty-five  to 
sixty  miles  every  Sunday,  and  return.  One  of  these  men  used  to  live  in 
the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  he  told  me  the  last  time  I  saw  him:  "It  was 
difficult  for  us  to  go  about  six  blocks  to  Church  when  I  was  out  there, 
but  I  will  tell  you  that  we  appreciate  going  sixty  miles  and  return  to 
Fort  Stockton  now,  in  order  to  partake  of  the  sacrament  and  renew 
our  covenants  and  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord." 

In  the  Rio  Grande  Valley,  those  people  living  in  that  beautiful 
paradise  there  travel  at  least  twenty-five  miles  every  Sunday  morning, 
have  their  sacrament  meeting  following  Sunday  School,  and  Priesthood 
meeting  previous  to  Sunday  School.  Their  Relief  Society  meets  also 
along  with  the  Mutual,  on  Tuesday  evenings. 

The  people  in  the  Texas  Mission  have  been  diligent  in  trying  to  build 
up  their  places  of  meeting.  They  have  succeeded  in  building  eight 
buildings  in  which  to  meet,  since  we  have  been  down  there,  in  addition 
to  a  mission  home.  Two  of  these  buildings  were  built  and  the  ground 
provided,  without  calling  upon  the  Church  for  any  aid,  and  I  tell  you 
those  buildings,  modest  as  they  are,  are  a  compliment  to  the  Church. 
That  is  the  way  they  love  to  meet,  the  way  they  love  to  work  for  the  Lord, 
and  cherish  that  which  is  of  most  worth  to  them.  This  is  manifested  also 
in  a  steady  increase  in  tithes  and  offerings  and  in  the  number  observing 
these  commandments. 

I  don't  know  where  one  could  look  for  a  finer  experience,  a  more 
sweet  experience,  than  to  labor  with  your  sons  and  your  daughters.  To 
hear  them  bear  testimony  of  the  help  that  the  Lord  has  given  them  from 
time  to  time,  manifesting  His  power  and  His  spirit  through  them,  in  the 
Priesthood  which  they  hold ;  to  have  them  stand  with  tears  in  their  eyes 
and  thank  their  Heavenly  Father  for  their  parents,  and  for  the  privilege 
that  they  have  of  finding  life  anew  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  would  touch 
your  hearts,  as  it  has  mine,  deeply,  time  and  time  again.  I  think  there  is 
nothing  more  holy,  more  sacred,  almost,  than  a  young  man  or  a  young 
woman  who  has  been  rejuvenated,  who  has  been  transformed-  after 
coming  in  contact  with  the  Lord  through  prayer  and  through  manifesta- 
tions such  as  I  have  spoken  of. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  only  a  few  in  the  Church  who  are 
called  to  do  regular  missionary  work,  but  all  of  us  are  called  to  live  our 
religion.  I  believe  that  those  thousands  who  come  to  see  the  things  of 
interest  upon  this  Block  are  entitled,  when  they  meet  up  with  us  here  in  the 
cities  and  places  in  Utah  and  other  States  where  the  Mormons  pre- 
dominate, to  expect  and  to  find  just  the  same  type  of  devotion  to  our 
religion  among  us  as  they  find  invariably  among  your  boys  and  girls  in  the 
mission  field. 

I  have  said  it  once  before,  but  I  have  reason  to  repeat  it :  I  believe 
that  more  good  can  come  from  having  one  of  these  strangers  from  with- 
out our  gates  come  here  and  find  us  living  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
that  we  have  espoused ;  and  that  Gospel  which  we  send  these  thousands 
of  young  men  out  to  have  them  accept — than  from  many  eloquent 
sermons  from  those  who  are  qualified  to  speak.  I  know  this,  because  I 
have  met  many  men  and  women  who  visit  here  and  return.  Most  of  them 
have  been  deeply  impressed.  A  few  of  them  have  registered  some  dis- 
appointment in  some  of  the  things  that  they  have  beheld.  We  can't  af- 
ford to  have  that  done.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  would  have  the  faith  and 
the  strength  to  live  our  religion,  our  progress  would  be  doubled,  at  least, 
and  we  would  be  known  the  world  over,  more  rapidly  than  we  are  now, 
for  good,  and  for  being  a  people  great  among  the  people  of  the  world. 
We  can't  afford  to  be  indifferent  to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  that  we 
hold.  From  2nd  Nephi  may  I  read  this  verse,  where  he  says : 

Woe  unto  him  that  has  the  law  given,  yea,  that  has  all  the  command- 
ments of  God,  like  unto  us,  and  that  transgresseth  them  and  that  wasteth 
the  days  of  his  probation,  for  awful  is  his  state. 

Those  of  us  who  have  received  the  Gospel  are  expected  to  more 
closely  account  for  our  actions  and  our  lives,  I  believe,  than  those  who 
have  never  come  in  contact  with  it.  Let  us  live  so  that  we  may  merit  the 
choice  blessings  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  be  thankful  and  grateful  that  the 
greatest  blessings  that  He  has  offered,  those  of  eternal  life  and  exaltation 
in  His  kingdom,  are  not  at  all  dependent  upon  the  business  conditions  of 
the  world,  nor  upon  man's  poor  power  to  direct  and  govern  the  affairs  of 
men  here  upon  the  earth.  They  are  given  to  us  and  are  receivable  upon 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  God. 

I  wish  here  to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  instrument  in  God's  hands,  and  that  these  men  sitting 
here  on  the  stand  are  servants  of  the  Lord,  endowed  with  the  holy  power 
of  the  Prieshood  to  direct  this  people.  I  am  grateful  for  the  association 
that  I  have  had  with  these  men,  and  for  the  devotion  that  I  see  in  them, 
the  unselfish  motives  that  they  have  in  the  work  that  they  do.  I  have  been 
edified  in  their  presence  when  they  have  come  into  our  mission  and  into 
our  various  meetings  here  at  home. 

May  I  say  this — I  have  never  .said  it  before,  and  I  know  that  Sister 
Christiansen  would  not  approve  of  it — I  hope  she  doesn't  hear  me — but, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  my  dear  wife  for  the 
good  that  she  has  done  among  the  members  and  missionaries  in  Texas 
and  Louisiana,  and  for  the  help  that  she  has  given  me  and  my  children, 


\ 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  51 

who  I  feel  filled  their  mission  as  they  should  have  done.  I  thank  God 
for  them,  and  I  thank  Him  for  the  privilege  that  I  have  had. 

Now  I  am  ready  to  do  as  I  have  told  our  missionaries  to  do  when 
they  get  home :  Preach  the  Gospel  whenever  you  talk,  and  if  the  Bishop 
asks  you  to  be  janitor,  be  janitor.  Accept  any  call  that  is  given  you,  if  it 
comes  from  those  presiding  over  you.  I  now  stand  in  the  same  position ; 
I  am  ready ;  I  am  anxious  now  to  teach  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  hundred  and  fifty  young  men  and  women  that  I  meet  every 
day.  I  have  delighted  in  it  the  past  month,  and  1  find  them  delighting 
in  learning.  Why?  This  is  the  work  of  God.  It  is  the  truth  ! 

May  God  bless  us  all,  I  pray,  in  His  name,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Will  you  please  keep  in  mind  the  Chief  of  Police's  appeal  and 
admonition  to  keep  mentally  alert  while  walking  or  driving. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "The  Lord  Is  My  Light" 
— Allitson.    Director :    Nellie  Bennion  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Again  I  express  our  gratitude  and  sincere  appreciation  of  the  rich 
contribution  to  our  services  by  our  Singing  Mothers.  God  bless  them. 

Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta  Temple,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday,  October  4,  at  10  a.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Saturday  morning, 
October  4,  at  10  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  exercises. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  the  presence  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  at  this  session.  The  exercises  will  be  conducted  under  his  presi- 
dency and  supervision. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

Yesterday,  when  the  list  of  those  who  have  passed  away  was  read, 
one  name  was  omitted  because  her  demise  took  place  after  the  list  was 
made  up.  I  very  sorrowfully  announce  the  passing  of  Sister  Joseph  F. 
Merrill,  beloved  wife  of  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  She  passed  away  Monday,  September  29,  1941.  Our  hearts 
beat  as  one  in  sympathy  with  our  fellow-worker  in  his  bereavement. 

So  far  as  I  can  observe,  all  the  General  Authorities  who  are  in  the 
city  are  present  on  the  stand  in  their  places  this  morning. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top" — 
Beesley. 

Elder  Albert  L.  Larsen,  President  of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

The  Pasadena  Stake  male  quartet,  A.  M.  Gish,  director,  sang  "Lead 
Kindly  Light"— Dudley  Buck. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled:  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also 
in  me.  (John  14:1) 

Such  were  the  words  given  by  Jesus  to  His  Apostles  just  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  Last  Supper.  If  He  could  offer  such  consolation  on 
that  solemn  occasion,  facing  betrayal  and  death  as  He  was,  I  am  sure 
that  He  would  say  the  same  to  the  people  today,  many  of  whom  feel 
discouraged  and  distressed.  The  Savior  also  gave  an  antidote  to  trouble, 
which  is  belief  in  God.  Absolute  faith  in  Christ  will  drive  out  fear  and 
will  alleviate  sorrow.  We  have  a  beautiful  hymn  written  by  Sister 
Woodmansee,  that  expresses  that  thought : 

When  dark  and  drear  the  skies  appear, 

And  doubt  and  dread  would  thee  enthrall, 

Look  up,  nor  fear,  the  day  is  near, 
And  Providence  is  over  all. 

It  is  true  the  world  is  passing  through  a  period  of  transition,  of 
sorrow,  and  to  many  of  despair.  Nations  are  being  subjected  to  tyranny. 
The  four  devastating  Horsemen — War,  Famine,  Pestilence,  and  Death 
— are  galloping  seemingly  unchecked.  The  daily  press  announced  re- 
cently— "The  greatest  battle  of  annihilation  in  all  history."  Freedom 
of  the  individual  to  speak,  to  act,  and  to  work  is  being  shackled.  Systems 
of  government  heretofore  advocated  as  the  best  and  safest  for  mankind 
are  being  questioned.  Religious  truths,  once  held  sacred,  are  now  doubted, 
ridiculed,  or  rejected.  In  some  parts  of  the  world,  even  hell  itself  seems 
to  have  broken  loose,  spreading  hatred,  terror  and  death  in  its  wake. 
Now  as  never  before  we  should  put  our  trust  in  God,  "stand  fast  in  the 
faith,  quit  ourselves  like  men,  be  strong." 


54 

Saturday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PLAN 

Many  of  you  heard  this  morning  the  program  given  by  the  Church 
Welfare  Committee.  The  Church  Welfare  Plan  was  organized  just  five 
and  a  half  years  ago,  the  underlying  purpose  of  which  is  three-fold,  viz : 

1.  To  supply  in  a  helpful  and  dignified  manner  food,  clothing  and 
shelter  to  every  person  so  in  need. 

2.  To  assist  men  and  women  who,  through  misfortune,  ill  luck,  or 
disaster,  find  themselves  without  gainful  employment,  to  become  once 
again  self-supporting;  and 

3.  To  increase  among  the  members  of  the  Church  the  true  spirit  of 
the  brotherhood  of  Christ,  having  in  mind  in  all  their  service  the  divine 
saying,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

The  plan  is  not  something  new,  but  rather  a  means  of  uniting  along 
well  established  lines  quorum,  auxiliary,  and  ecclesiastical  groups  in 
their  efforts  to  serve  one  another  and  the  Church.  Presidencies  of  Stakes, 
Bishoprics  of  Wards,  quorum  officials,  Relief  Society  officers,  now  work 
unitedly  instead  of  independently  in  giving  relief  and  helpfulness  to 
those  who  merit  assistance.  The  only  modification  or  addition  in  the 
ecclesiastical  organizations  of  the  Church  is  the  uniting  of  several  Stakes 
in  what  is  called  a  Region. 

NUMBER  OF  PERSONS  NOW  ENGAGED 

The  latest  report  (furnished  upon  request  by  Elder  Roscoe  Eard- 
ley),  shows  that  there  are  now  serving  on  Welfare  Committees  9,754 
persons;  that  there  are  83  storehouses  already  completed  or  in  process 
of  being  built;  that  during  1941,  and  still  active,  there  are  1,590  quorum 
projects ;  that  173  homes  were  built  during  1939-40  with  quorum  assist- 
ance, and  92  thus  far  during  1941. 

An  interesting  development  of  the  Welfare  Plan  during  1941  was : 

First.  The  number  of  persons  who  had  been  working  on  Church- 
directed  projects  who  found  employment  in  defense  and  private  industry. 

Second.  The  increased  number  of  faithful  quorum  members,  Re- 
lief Society  sisters,  and  others  who  donated  their  labors  to  carry  the 
Welfare  Plan  forward. 

Of  such  voluntary  service  you  heard  some  encouraging  examples 
this  morning.    Here  are  others : 

During  the  first  eight  months  of  1941  in  the  Salt  Lake  Region  1,055 
persons  were  assisted  by  Personal  Welfare  committees  of  Priesthood 
quorums,  Ward  Work  directors,  and  Church  Welfare  employment 
departments.  Proportionately  good  records  have  been  made  by  other 
Regions,  including  northern  Utah,  which  centers  at  Ogden;  southern 
California,  which  centers  at  Los  Angeles,  and  eastern  Idaho,  which 
centers  at  Idaho  Falls. 

In  addition  to  the  1,590  quorum  projects  already  named,  Priesthood 
groups  have  been  organized  to  assist  at  storehouse  centers  and  on  other 
projects  under  the  direction  of  the  Regions.   Assistance  has  been  given 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


53 


BRINGS  NEW  CHEER 

Notwithstanding  the  topsy-turviness  of  the  world  generally,  I  bring 
to  you  this  morning  a  word  of  encouragement,  a  note  of  cheer,  a  mes- 
sage of  hope  and  faith.  I  say  this  first  because  I  have  faith  in  the  over- 
ruling power  of  Providence.  Man,  through  his  littleness,  through  his 
rejection  of  the  Gospel,  his  selfishness  and  weakness,  brings  contention 
and  strife  upon  himself.    He  is,  as  Emerson  says : 

A  divinity  in  disguise.  A  god  playing  the  fool.  It  seems  as  if 
heaven  had  sent  its  insane  angels  into  our  world  as  to  an  asylum, 
and  here  they  will  break  out  into  their  native  music  and  utter  at 
intervals  the  words  they  have  heard  in  heaven.  Then  the  mad  fit 
returns  and  they  mope  and  wallow  like  dogs. 

But  a  wise  Father  will  work  out  of  men's  mistakes  and  blunders 
greater  blessings  than  they  might  have  obtained  with  their  own  wisest 
foresight.  Gloomy  clouds  often  hang  heavily  about  us,  but  the  rains 
that  descend  from  them  often  prove  a  blessing.  So  it  may  be  with  the 
ominous  clouds  lowering  today  over  civilization. 

I  do  not  believe  in  the  advocacy  of  discouragement  and  gloom; 
better,  the  gospel  of  Hope.  Remember,  the  Church  of  Christ  is  estab- 
lished never  more  to  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  another  people.  The 
Gospel  has  not  yet  been  preached  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and 
people,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord  will  open  up  the  way  for  the  con- 
summation of  His  purposes. 

There  are  many  things  as  a  Church  for  which  we  should  be  grateful 
and  hopeful,  and  I  am  going  to  name  some  of  these  this  morning. 

CHURCH  CONDITIONS 

Conditions  were  never  more  favorable  or  more  promising  in  the 
Church  than  today.  Priesthood  quorums  were  never  more  active  as 
groups  than  they  are  today.  More  presidencies  of  quorums  are  sensing 
their  responsibilities  as  presiding  officers,  and  as  a  result  are  striving 
more  earnestly  to  set  their  quorums  in  order. 

The  Auxiliary  associations  show  progress  all  along  the  line. 

The  Relief  Society,  numbering  over  ninety  thousand,  now  extends 
to  all  Latter-day  Saint  women  the  opportunity  for  service  and  develop- 
ment which  comes  through  membership  in  this  society,  and  the  officers 
hope  that  at  the  end  of  the  year  1941  nine  thousand  more  women  will 
join  their  ranks,  thus  increasing  their  membership  to  one  hundred  thou- 
sand by  the  Centennial  year. 

TITHING 

As  we  heard  yesterday,  the  tithes  of  the  people  show  a  most  encour- 
aging increase  over  last  year,  and  indeed,  over  any  previous  year. 

FAST  OFFERINGS 

Fast  offerings  also  reflect  a  more  general  adherence  to  this  impor- 
tant phase  of  Church  policy  and  true  Christian  practice. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


55 


in  the  building  of  meeting  houses,  the  renovating  of  buildings  already 
erected,  and  in  beautifying  public  grounds. 

During  the  past  three  months,  in  the  Salt  Lake  Region,  926  Priest- 
hood quorum  members  have  donated  labor  at  Welfare  Square,  and  1,500 
Relief  Society  workers  have  assisted  in  preserving  foods  for  storing. 
Men  and  women,  eager  to  help,  have  sometimes  traveled  great  distances. 
For  example,  five  Relief  Society  workers  living  136  miles  distant  from 
the  regional  cannery,  came  at  their  own  expense.  Sisters  from  another 
Stake,  35  to  60  miles  away  from  the  cannery,  came  on  a  number  of  occa- 
sions, supplying  .their  own  transportation  and  bringing  their  own  lunches. 
This  group  included  not  only  the  Relief  Society  workers  but  a  number 
of  younger  women  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciation, accompanied  by  their  Stake  and  Ward  officers. 

EXCELLENT  RESULTS 

During  the  past  summer,  Stake  Presidents,  accompanied  by  Priest- 
hood quorum  members  have  come  to  Welfare  Square  to  work  on  Welfare 
projects.  The  same  procedure  has  been  followed  by  a  number  of  bish- 
oprics with  excellent  results.  Part  of  the  work  accomplished  by  these 
men  has  been  the  loading  and  unloading  of  more  than  200  cars  of  wheat. 
As  a  result  of  these  activities,  it  is  estimated  that  fully  one-third  more 
has  been  produced  during  1941  than  during  other  years  since  the  Wel- 
fare Plan  was  inaugurated. 

A  further  important  development  has  been  the  closer  cooperation 
between  the  Relief  Society  organizations,  the  Ward  Welfare  commit- 
tees, and  the  Priesthood  quorums.  Closer  association  of  the  brethren 
and  sisters  in  Welfare  Work  has  prepared  the  way  to  meet  more  effi- 
ciently any  emergencies  that  may  arise  in  the  future. 

EUROPEAN  MISSIONS 

As  we  heard  yesterday,  encouraging  word  comes  even  from  our 
branches  in  war-torn  Europe.  In  Great  Britain  the  historic  publication, 
The  Millennial  Star,  is  issued  every  week,  as  it  has  been  practically  every 
week  since  1840. 

We  might  go  on  enumerating  conditions  evidencing  the  progress 
in  the  Church,  but  time  will  not  permit. 

In  the  light  of  all  these  facts,  and  many  others  we  might  mention, 
are  we  not  justified  in  having  our  souls  lifted,  our  hearts  encouraged,  and 
our  hopes  brightened?  Our  plain  duty  is  to  move  forward  with  a  de- 
termination to  do  what  the  Lord  requires  of  us,  "to  deal  justly,  to  love 
mercy,  and  to  walk  humbly  with  our  God." 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  LOVE 

Absolute  trust  in  the  Lord  will  awaken  a  desire,  at  least,  to  try  to 
live  in  accordance  with  Christ's  teachings,  chief  of  which  is  to  LOVE, 
not  hate  one  another.    Now,  as  perhaps  never  before,  all  men  and  es- 


V 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


pecially  Latter-day  Saints  should  preach  and  practice  the  gospel  of  love, 
and  decry,  as  well  as  deplore,  manifestations  of  ill-will  and  hate. 

He  that  hateth  his  brother  is  in  darkness,  and  walketh  in  dark- 
ness, and  knoweth  not  whither  he  g-oeth,  because  that  darkness  hath 
blinded  his  eyes. 

In  answer  to  a  lawyer's  question,  which  is  the  great  commandment 
in  the  law,  Jesus  answered  in  one  word,  "Love,"  and  then  He  specifically 
stated  whom  we  should  love ;  first,  the  Lord  "with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind;"  and,  second,  "thy  neighbor  as 
thyself." 

The  opposite  of  Love  is  Hate.  As  Christ  is  the  personification  of 
love,  so  Satan  is  the  embodiment  of  hate. 

Hate  is  cruel  and  vicious ;  even  when  unexpressed  and  smouldering, 
it  consumes  the  individual  as  surely  as  when  it  bursts  into  flame.  Hate 
feeds  on  envy.  It  prompts  and  justifies  unrighteous  conquest;  it  looks 
for  weaknesses  in  others ;  lives  in  the  realm  of  iniquity  and  feeds  on 
falsehood  and  slander ;  it  injures  the  hater  even  more  than  the  hated.  It 
"is  of  all  things  the  mightiest  divider,  nay,  is  division  itself." 


Rejection  of  the  Gospel  of  Love,  which  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
brought  on  the  World  War  that  began  in  1914,  with  what  result? 

Seven  million  men  killed,  twenty  million  wounded,  five  million 
of  whom  were  maimed  and  crippled  for  life.  Six  million  men  im- 
prisoned. Twenty  million  women  in  Europe  deprived  of  a  home  of 
their  own.  Countless  millions  who  suffered  privations  in  the  trenches, 
and  in  lonely  homes  of  the  poor.  Fifty  billion  dollars  worth  of  ma- 
terial and  property  destroyed.  One  hundred  billion  dollars  to  provide 
for  the  cost  of  the  war  and  interest. 

Hatred  smouldering  in  the  hearts  of  Germans  against  men  and  na- 
tions who  imposed  upon  Germany  what  to  the  Germans  were  unjust  terms 
of  peace  is  the  cause  of  the  present  world-wide  conflict.  As  a  result, 
millions  of  men  are  again  being  slaughtered,  homes  broken  up,  property 
destroyed,  women  and  children  massacred,  nations  subjugated  or  prac- 
tically obliterated,  the  right  of  self-government  destroyed,  and  liberty 
itself  threatened. 

Terrible  as  things  are,  I  repeat,  I  still  have  faith  that  God  will  over- 
rule all  for  the  good  of  humanity. 


There  are  things  in  the  world  which  we  may  and  should  despise,  but 
we  can  condemn  the  evil  without  hating  the  man.  We  should  develop 
an  aversion  for  the  things  which  we  ourselves  can  and  should  resist  or 
overcome,  and  for  the  things  which  Christ  hated.  We  can  have  an  aver- 
sion for  the  works  of  the  flesh  as  enumerated  by  Paul,  among  which  are 
adultery,  fornication,  uncleanness,  lasciviousness,  hatred,  wrath,  strife, 
seditions,  heresies,  envyings,  murders,  drunkenness,  revelings  and  such 


WAR  A  RESULT  OF  REJECTING  THE  GOSPEL 


EVILS  TO  BE  CONDEMNED 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


57 


like ;  "of  the  which  I  tell  you  before  as  I  have  also  told  you  in  times 
past,  that  they  which  do  such  things  shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
God." 

1 

ATTENTION  TO  LITTLE  THINGS  VITAL  IN  ERADICATING  HATE 

When  the  rich  young  ruler  asked  Jesus  "what  great  thing  may  I 
do  to  obtain  eternal  life  ?"  the  Master  called  his  attention  not  to  any  one 
great  thing,  but  to  several  specific  commandments. 

So  there  may  not  be  any  great  act  we  may  do  to  eradicate  hate,  war, 
and  suffering  in  the  world ;  but  there  are  many  little  but  very  important 
duties  within  our  power  and  province  to  accomplish. 

This  is  a  time  when  men  and  women  should  curb  their  tempers,  and 
when  prompted  to  condemn  others,  to  hold  their  tongues.  In  national 
affairs,  for  example,  there  are  those  who  think  actual  participation  in 
the  European  conflict  will  be  necessary  to  end  the  struggle  and  to  bring 
about  peace.  There  are  others  who  think  such  a  step  would  be  most 
tragic.  The  interventionist  and  the  isolationist  each  has  equal  rights  to 
his  views,  and  each  may  be  equally  sincere  in  expressing  them.  My 
message,  therefore,  today,  is  to  keep  hate  and  enmity  out  of  the  con- 
troversy. 

Then,  too,  an  election  is  approaching.  Candidates  and  policies  will 
come  before  us  for  consideration.  In  times  past,  political  campaigns 
have  engendered  animosity  and  sometimes  personal  hatred.  Hate  thus 
harbored  indicates  an  inferior  grade  of  intelligence,  a  low  degree  of 
culture. 

ELIMINATE  HATRED 

I  know  of  no  better  way  to  bring  about  harmony  in  the  home,  in 
the  neighborhood,  in  organizations,  peace  in  our  country,  and  in  the 
world  than  for  every  man  and  woman  first  to  eliminate  from  his  or  her 
heart  the  enemies  of  harmony  and  peace  such  as  hatred,  selfishness, 
greed,  animosity  and  envy. 

Why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but 
considerest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Pertinent  to  this  thought,  Charles  Wagner,  author  of  The  Simple 
Life,  makes  this  comment : 

Each  person's  base  of  operations  is  the  field  of  his  immediate 
duty,  neglect  this  field,  and  all  you  undertake  at  a  distance  is  com- 
promised. First,  then,  be  of  your  own  country,  your  own  city,  your 
own  home,  your  own  church,  your  own  work-shop;  then,  if  you  can, 
set  out  from  this  to  go  beyond  it.  That  is  the  plain  and  natural  order, 
and  a  man  must  fortify  himself  with  very  bad  reasons  to  arrive  at 
reversing  it. 

Brethren  and  sisters:  "Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled,  ye  believe 
in  God,"  believe  also  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — a  belief  such  as  the 
Savior  had  in  mind  on  that  solemn  occasion  will  express  itself  in  action. 
So  in  conclusion : 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

Keep  your  faith  in  the  God  above, 

And  faith  in  His  righteous  truth; 
'Twill  bring  you  back  to  your  absent  love 

And  the  joys  of  a  vanished  youth. 

You'll  smile  once  more  when  your  tears  are  shed, 

Meet  trouble  and  swiltfy  rout  it; 
For  faith  is  the  strength  of  the  soul  inside, 

And  lost  is  the  man  without  it. 

May  increased  faith  and  trust  in  the  Lord  and  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  supplant  the  spirit  of  contention  and  hate  now  so  rampant,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President  of  the  New  England 

Mission 

It  is  a  joy  to  me  to  come  across  the  Continent  from  Boston  to 
attend  this  Conference  of  the  Church,  and  I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  say 
something  that  will  be  helpful  to  us  all. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  MISSIONARIES  LARORING  IN  NEW  ENGLAND 

The  parents  of  some  of  our  missionaries  in  New  England  are  present 
here  to-day,  and  you  may  be  assured  that  your  boys  and  girls  are  doing  a 
fine  work  in  the  cities  where  they  have  been  called"  to  labor.  They  are 
clean,  honest,  and  true;  and  have  become  fine  students  of  the  Gospel. 
They  would  hardly  like  me  to  speak  about  their  work,  for  they  have 
learned  the  secret  of  success  because  they  have  forgotten  themselves  and 
think  only  of  the  work  of  God.  They  realize  their  call  to  the  service  of  the 
Church,  and  they  know  that  there  is  no  sphere  of  life  in  which  a  man 
can  more  certainly  lay  out  all  his  talents  than  in  the  service  of  his  Maker. 
They  come  in  contact  with  all  kinds  of  people,  human  beings  in  every 
conceivable  relation,  and  there  is  no  life  so  rich  or  so  full  of  those  joys 
which  come  from  serving  people  at  the  point  of  their  greatest  need.  They 
realize  that  the  Master  is  calling  and  they  give  answer.  He  calls  not  to 
comfort  nor  to  power,  as  the  world  reckons  power :  He  calls  for  heroic 
service.  Your  sons  and  daughters  have  taken  up  the  cross  to  follow 
Him,  and  this  they  are  doing  nobly.  You  are  very  happy,  I  know,  in 
having  them  in  the  field,  and  you  may  rest  assured  that  we  will  do  all 
we  can  for  them.  They  will  honor  the  call,  for  they  are  working  under 
the  direction  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  their  lives  are  made  beautiful 
in  consequence. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

I  should  like  to  say  a  few  words  to  the  Seventies  assembled  here 
this  morning,  because  we  are  interested  in  you  and  the  great  work  which 
the  Lord  has  appointed  you  to  do.  We  are  the  men  who  are  ordained 
to  go  forth  to  give  the  message  of  the  Master  to  the  world.  You  have 
discovered  that  the  most  significant  factor  in  human  life  is  to  be  found  in 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


59 


the  ability  to  make  response  to  great  principles  and  great  ideals ;  in  you  is 
power  for  great  action  by  faith,  and  hope,  and  love.  In  a  word,  you  are 
to  show  yourselves  responsive  to  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  who  speaks 
through  all  of  you  to  the  souls  of  men.  The  message  is  a  word  of  duty 
uttered  from  above,  it  is  also  the  word  of  highest  privilege  uttered  from 
within.  "If  thou  wilt  enter  into  LIFE,  keep  the  commandments." 
"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  mind, 
and  with  all  thy  strength."  This  is  the  first  imperative  which  you,  my 
brother  Seventies,  must  abide  by  if  you  would  "enter  into  life."  Be 
sure  of  God !  By  simple  living  and  loving  worship,  by  purifying  your- 
selves, by  continual  moral  obedience  keep  close  to  Him.  You  are  giving 
help  in  ushering  in  the  Kingdom  of  God.  The  King  is  calling  and  you  are 
answering.  It  is  a  great  living  duty,  a  duty  of  love  and  thanksgiving. 
From  now  on  more  than  ever  before,  you  are  to  hear  the  admonition  of 
Paul :  "Wherefore,  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift 
of  God  which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands.  For  God  hath 
not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear ;  but  of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of  a  sound 
mind."  You  are  responsible  to  teach  the  Restoration  of  the  Gospel  to 
the  world,  and  your  hearts  must  be  prepared  for  this  great  responsibility. 

You  recall  from  your  history  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  brought 
the  Seventies  into  existence  in  February,  1835.  It  was  a  glorious  occasion 
for  it  followed  within  a  few  days  the  calling  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  in 
fulfillment  of  the  revelation  given  before  the  organization  of  the  Church. 
These  twelve  men  were  chosen  from  those  who  went  up  in  Zion's  Camp 
and  the  Three  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  were  to  select  and  ordain 
them.  Another  meeting  was  called  for  February  28,  and  the  brethren  were 
chosen  from  those  who  went  to  Missouri  in  Zion's  Camp  and  these 
brethren  constituted  the  first  Quorum  of  Seventy.  Hazen  Aldrich,  Joseph 
Young,  Levi  W.  Hancock,  Leonard  Rich,  Zebedee  Coltrin,  Lyman  Sher- 
man, and  Sylvester  Smith  were  called  to  the  office  of  the  President  of  this 
Quorum  of  Seventy.  These  brethren  and  those  appointed  to  form  the 
first  Quorum  were  ordained  under  thhe  hands  of  the  First  Presidency. 
And  says  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

The  Seventy  are  also  called  to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  to  be 
especial  witnesses  unto  the  Gentiles  and  in  all  the  world;  thus  differing 
from  other  officers  in  the  Church  in  the  duties  of  their  calling. 

POWER  IN  THE  PRIESTHOOD  TO  BRING  ABOUT  CHANGES 

We  do  not  have  any  individual  organizations  of  the  Priesthood  in 
the  New  England  Mission,  but  we  are  teaching  the  few  members  we  have 
the  meaning  and  power  of  the  various  offices  of  the  Priesthood,  and  in  our 
Youth  organizations  we  are  emphasizing  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel 
and  the  coming  of  John  the  Baptist  and  Peter,  James,  and  John  who 
restored  the  full  power  of  God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brethren. 
This  power  we  have  to-day,  and  it  is  the  one  thing  that  is  to  bring  a  new 
life  of  Faith  into  the  world.  It  is  a  truth  of  the  highest  importance,  for 
man  is  made  in  the  image  of  God.  "God  created  man  in  His  own  image ; 
in  the  image  of  God  created  He  him."  Man  is  divine;  and  in  this  day 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

when  people  are  speaking  of  the  hours  of  doom,  we  must  stir  that  gift  of 
God  within  us  and  within  the  world,  for  man  can  rise  above  sin  and 
wrong  and  bring  about  the  supremacy  of  Truth.  We  recall  the  last 
words  that  Jesus  uttered  when  He  sent  His  disciples  forth : 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  teaching  them  to  observe 
all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you. 

That  is  the  message  that  must  ring  true  in  our  hearts  to  go  forth 
into  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel.  We  are  told  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  we  who  are  divine  in  the  sight  of  God  sent  into  this 
life  for  a  divine  and  holy  purpose.  If  we  will  remember  these  divine 
words  of  Paul  the  Apostle  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  for 
we  will  look  up  and  not  down ;  and  we  will  not  leave  this  awful  feeling 
of  doom  and  despair,  in  our  hearts,  for  God  lives,  and  we  have  everything 
of  beauty  and  truth  and  goodness. 

UNITED  EFFORT  NECESSARY  TO  SUCCESS 

Let  me  say  in  conclusion  to  all  of  us  Seventies.  We  will  be  united 
as  never  before  for  this  great  cause.  And  if  we  are  united,  we  will  keep  in 
mind  these  words  of  Paul : 

For  I  am  persuaded,  that  neither  death,  nor  life,  nor  angels,  nor  prin- 
cipalities, nor  powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to  come,  nor  height, 
nor  depth,  nor  any  other  creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate  us  from  the  love 
of  God. 

It  is  in  God's  love  that  we  will  be  able  to  love  mankind  and  in 
loving  mankind  we  will  love  God,  and  it  is  with  this  spirit,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  Elders,  the  missionaries,  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  are  going  forth  in  the  New  England  Mission ;  never  with 
hate,  never  with  unkindness,  never  with  anything  false,  but  with  Truth, 
with  kindness,  with  hope,  and  with  a  knowledge  in  their  hearts  that 
they  are  the  servants  of  the  living  God.  This  is  what  I  wanted  to  say 
to  you  as  your  servant  and  fellow-laborer  and  brother,  and  as  a  co-laborer 
with  our  fine  boys  and  girls  in  New  England. 

God  bless  us  all  that  the  truth  of  this  message  of  the  living  God  may 
live  in  our  hearts  forever,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President 
of  the  Temple  Square  Mission 

As  you  are  aware,  I  am  laboring  in  the  Temple  Square  Mission. 

EARLY  GUIDE  SERVICE 

My  first  contact  with  guide  service  was  when  I  was  a  young  boy 
running  up  and  down  the  dusty  streets  in  my  bare  feet.  We  were  living 
in  one  of  the  houses  of  Grandfather  Taylor,  and  because  of  the  interest 
in  him,  strangers  who  came  to  visit  Salt  Lake  City  were  taken  by  the 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


61 


hack  driver  past  grandfather's  homes.  The  hack  driver  would  always 
stop  and  make  explanations  of  who  lived  in  the  house  or  houses  and 
something  about  the  doctrines  and  practices  of  the  Church.  We  boys 
used  to  line  up  quite  near  to  the  carriage  and  listen  to  the  stories  that  were 
told  by  the  driver.  When  the  driver  was  through  and  commenced  his 
way  up  the  street,  we  trotted  along  in  the  dust  and  said  in  our  indignation : 
"Liar,  liar,  liar."  Mother  didn't  approve  of  it  very  much,  not  because 
we  weren't  telling  the  truth  but  because  of  the  company  we  were  keeping. 
She  had  the  fine  philosophy  of  life  that  it  is  never  worthwhile  to  get 
even  or  to  hurt  people,  when  trying  to  put  over  your  own  cause.  She 
also  had  in  mind  the  good  people  who  were  riding  in  the  carriage  who 
had  to  listen  to  what  was  told  them. 

BEGINNING  OF  THE  BUREAU  OF  INFORMATION 

It  was  in  1901  that  the  thought  came  to  some  of  the  brethren  that 
it  would  be  a  good  thing  if  the  Church  would  provide  an  organization  to 
take  care  of  this  situation  and  enable  our  visiting  friends  to  hear  the 
story  from  our  point  of  view  instead  of  allowing  men  who  were  preju- 
diced and  who  were  not  familiar  with  the  ways  of  life  and  doctrines  of 
the  Church  to  do  all  of  the  teaching.  The  matter  was  presented  to  the 
M.  I.  A.  General  Board  and  it  resulted  in  a  committee  being  organized  to 
look  after  the  strangers,  especially  those  who  were  visiting  within  this 
sacred  Block.  Later  it  was  taken  over  by  the  First  Presidency,  and  a 
number  of  missionaries  were  called  to  labor  on  the  Block.  In  the  com- 
mencement of  any  new  type  of  work  the  servants  of  the  Lord  are  not 
only  inspired  in  effecting  its  organization  but  they  also  have  the  inspira- 
tion to  choose  the  type  of  men  who  will  pioneer  the  movement.  Even 
though  the  organization  is  important,  it  is  just  as  important  to  select  the 
right  man  to  commence  it.  Brother  Benjamin  Goddard  was  chosen  to  do 
this  work,  and  he  laid  a  splendid  foundation  on  which  others  who 
followed  him  might  build.  Others  might  continue  to  add  to  the  building 
and  perhaps  to  polish  the  stones  but  without  such  a  solid  foundation  and 
introduction,  I  am  quite  sure  that  it  would  not  be  going  along  as  efficient- 
ly as  it  is  today. 

Succeeding  Brother  Goddard  was  President  Levi  Edgar  Young; 
after  him,  Joseph  S.  Peery,  and  then  Joseph  J.  Cannon.  Each  one  has 
done  a  magnificent  work  in  this  Temple  Square  Mission. 

INTEREST  IN  THE  WORK  MANIFESTED 

The  guides  are  all  interested  in  the  work.  They  are  real  missionaries. 
They  are  trying  to  do  everything  they  can  to  inspire  and  put  into  the 
hearts  of  men  and  women  a  knowledge  and  testimony  of  the  truthfulness 
of  this  great  work.  Sometimes  when  we  discuss  releasing  missionaries 
they  come  and  ask  that  extensions  might  be  made  in  their  case  because 
they  love  the  work  and  do  not  desire  to  be  released. 

This  year  we  have  had  around  416,000  people  come  to  the  Block 
as  visitors.  This  is  something  like  89,000  more  people  than  we  had  last 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4 


Second  Day 


year.  Today,  because  of  war  conditions  and  employment  possibilities 
in  different  parts  of  the  country,  and  because  Europe  is  not  open  to 
travel,  people  are  traveling  extensively  in  this  country. 

Among  some  of  the  interesting  things  to  the  tourists  as  they  visit 
the  Block  are  the  way  we  handle  our  young  people,  both  in  a  religious 
and  a  social  way ;  our  Temple  work  and  the  conception  we  have  of  the 
justice  of  God  in  requiring  both  the  living  and  dead  to  do  the  same  things 
in  order  to  receive  the  same  rewards ;  that  men  and  women  are  able 
to  obtain  help  and  assistance,  even  though  they  may  be  on  the  other  side. 
To  them  it  is  a  new  and  thought-provoking  doctrine.  They  are  interested 
in  our  conception  of  marriage  and  family  relationship,  both  here  and 
hereafter.  The  doctrine  that  men  and  women,  if  they  are  faithful  and 
true,  may  have  each  other,  may  have  their  children,  may  have  their 
fathers  and  mothers  in  the  eternities,  is  startling  but  satisfying.  In 
speaking  to  a  group  one  time,  mention  was  made  that  women  might  have 
their  husbands  on  the  other  side.  A  woman  spoke  up  and  said,  "What ! 
No  rest  in  heaven"  ?  Undoubtedly  this  lady  had  not  had  such  a  happy 
married  life,  but  as  we  talk  about  the  Temple  work  and  its  possibilities, 
I  notice  that  the  older  people  who  are  in  the  crowd  look  at  each  other  and 
draw  a  bit  closer  and  one  can  almost  hear  them  say,  "That  is  what  we 
would  like  to  have  happen  to  us."  And  the  young  couples  who  are 
traveling,  perhaps  on  their  honeymoon,  hold  each  other's  hand  more  firmly 
and  one  can  almost  hear  them  say,  "God  being  willing,  we  will  live  this 
life  righteously  and  have  each  other  forever  and  ever." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  keep  us  as  we  walk  through  life,  that  the 
inspiration  and  power  of  God  shall  always  be  with  us  and  that  we  shall 
take  a  happy  interest  in  men  and  women  not  of  our  faith,  that  they,  too, 
might  see  and  understand  the  beauty  of  the  Gospel  and  eventually,  be- 
cause of  the  righteousness  of  their  lives,  find  their  way  back  into  the 
presence  of  God,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer, Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  shall  now  be  favored  with  another  selection  from  the  Pasadena 
Stake  Male  Quartet.  You  will  perhaps  be  interested  to  know  that  this 
quartet  is  made  up  of  Brother  George  Waite,  first  tenor,  from  Eastmont 
Ward;  Brother  Monte  Green,  baritone,  from  the  Montibello  Ward; 
Brother  Geert  Hulshoff ,  basso,  of  Belvedere  Ward ;  Albert  Gish,  second 
tenor,  Monrovia  Ward.  All  are  High  Priests  in  Pasadena  Stake.  They 
call  the  quartet  Melkomen,  which  contains,  you  will  recognize,  the  first 
syllable  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  The  brethren  will  now  sing  for 
us,  "The  Story  of  Old,"  by  Parks ;  director,  Brother  A.  M.  Gish. 


The  male  quartet  from  Pasadena  Stake  sang  "The  Story  of  Old." 
— Parks. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


63 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

All  my  life  I  have  looked  with  the  spirit  of  reverence  upon  this 
building.  I  never  dreamed  that  one  day  I  should  be  privileged  to  sit  upon 
these  red  plush  seats.  Since  living  within  a  stone's  throw  of  Temple 
Block,  my  mother  was  always  anxious  that  we  attend  the  two  o'clock 
afternoon  session  each  Sunday,  and  as  a  boy  I  used  to  say: 

Mother,  it  does  not  do  any  good  for  me  to  go  over  there,  I  just 
go  to  sleep.    I  cannot  stay  awake  in  the  Tabernacle. 

Well,  son,  that  shows  there's  a  good  spirit  there.  (Laughter) 
There  is  nothing  to  be  afraid  of,  and  I  want  you  to  go. 

But  she  was  not  speaking  of  today ;  for  I  am  afraid. 

CONDITIONS  IN  THE  NORTHWEST 

I  come  from  the  great  Northwest  where  I  am  laboring  with  young 
men  and  women  that  are  gloriously  fine.  There  are  about  130  of  them 
in  our  Mission,  and  about  11,000  members  of  the  Church  that  we  have 
on  record  scattered  throughout  the  Northwestern  States — a  glorious  part 
of  the  world,  the  most  beautiful  perhaps  of  all  the  world.  They  are  busy 
now  because  of  the  conditions  that  prevail  in  creating  armament  and 
ships,  erecting  airports  and  providing  facilities  so  that  the  United  States 
will  be  ready.  There  is  not  very  much  unemployment  in  the  Northwest. 
Our  farmers  are  having  some  difficulties  up  around  the  Missoula  district, 
the  rains  have  been  so  copious  that  the  wheat  is  sprouting  in  the  shocks ; 
they  are  unable  to  thresh  it.    This  has  been  a  wet  year. 

The  Saints  in  the  Mission  are  living  the  Gospel.  The  tithes  have 
almost  doubled  this  year  over  last  year,  and  the  missionaries  have  dis- 
tributed more  Books  of  Mormon  than  ever  before.  The  people  are  open- 
minded  and  kind  to  us.  Rarely  do  we  hear  anyone  criticise. 

VISIT  TO  ALASKA 

Recently  it  was  my  privilege  to  travel  to  the  far  north  and  visit 
Alaska,  which  is  part  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.  We  have 
established  there  in  Fairbanks  a  nice  Branch  of  the  Church.  The  mission- 
aries went  there  last  winter.  During  the  summer  months  we  had  six 
missionaries  laboring  in  Alaska.  The  two  that  were  assigned  to  Anchor- 
age have  been  very  successful  in  establishing  a  Branch  which  now  is 
functioning  on  its  own.  The  Branch  President,  Brother  Joseph  Tibbitts, 
is  in  charge,  and  the  soldier  boys,  those  of  the  airport,  many  of  them 
members  of  our  Church,  are  in  attendance,  and  they  find  a  great  deal  of 
comfort  in  being  permitted  to  go  to  a  Branch  of  the  Church  and  parti- 
cipate there  in  the  Sunday  School  and  the  Mutual  Improvement 
organization. 

The  Government  is  doing  a  tremendous  job  in  that  part  of  the 
world.  There  is  a  great  airbase  at  Fairbanks,  hangars  the  like  of  which 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4 


Second  Day 


I  have  never  seen  in  my  life.  Likewise  in  Anchorage,  a  city  of  2500 
people,  now  they  have  12,000  people  living  there.  In  three  or  four 
days  they  erect  themselves  little  homes,  hammering  together  some  two- 
by-fours  and  nailing  cellotex  on  the  sides.  They  are  taking  their  families 
into  these  places  and  are  rearing  them.  Rents  are  very  high  and  the 
Government  is  paying  tremendous  wages  to  the  workers  there. 

As  Brother  Greenwood  was  talking  this  morning  in  the  Wel- 
fare meeting,  warning  our  people  about  leaving  home  and  security 
to  go  away  to  work  at  jobs  that  will  perhaps  last  but  a  few  months,  I 
thought  of  what  happened  when  I  was  in  Alaska.  One  man  had  taken 
his  family  all  the  way  to  Anchorage,  and  it  takes  a  week  on  the  ocean 
to  get  there — to  get  one  of  those  big  paying  jobs  that  of  course  would 
be  shortlived.  He  passed  away  and  left  his  wife  and  three  little  children 
there  with  his  mother-in-law,  with  no  visible  means  of  support,  but 
thank  God  she  had  found  a  little  Branch  of  the  Church.  We  were  able 
to  finance  her  trip  back  to  the  States,  where  she  was  provided  for,  and 
where  she  had  friends  who  could  help  her  become  located. 

HAPPINESS  IN  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  grateful  for  a  Church  that  is  practical,  grateful  for  a  Church 
that  reaches  into  our  everyday  lives  and  makes  us  happy.  No  one  can 
live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  not  be  happy.  No  matter  what  our 
difficulties  may  be  or  what  our  trials  may  be,  there  is  always  someone 
near  by  in  our  Church  to  help  us.  I  found  it  to  be  true  in  Europe ;  in 
South  Africa  likewise,  and  in  the  far  north  of  Alaska;  always  the  same 
spirit,  always  the  same  love;  always  the  desire  upon  the  part  of  the 
presiding  Authorities  to  bless  and  encourage  and  protect.  What  a 
Church  is  ours!  What  love  goes  out  to  the  people!  What  love  and 
devotion  are  expressed  by  the  people  and  shown  by  the  people  for  their 
leadership!  How  glorious  it  is  to  have  men  who  are  willing  to  sacrifice 
and  give,  as  our  leaders  do,  to  be  with  us  and  to  bless  us ! 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to  me  and  mine  to 
associate  with  the  young  people  of  the  Church. 

FULFILMENT  OF  A  PATRIARCHAL  BLESSING 

When  I  was  a  lad,  the  Patriarch,  placing  his  hands  upon  my  head, 
said  that  my  life  should  be  cast  with  the  youth  of  the  Church.  As  a 
Bishop  I  took  that  to  be  my  responsibility  and  labored  with  the  young 
people.  I  labored  for  some  thirteen  years  on  the  General  Board  of  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and  as  a  Mission  President.  The  work 
with  these  lovely  young  men  and  women  who  come  out  into  the  mission 
field  has  been  the  joy  of  my  life,  and  they  keep  my  wife  and  myself 
buoyant  in  our  spirits  and  feeling  every  day  to  thank  the  Lord  for  our 
opportunities.  And  so  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  and  helped  us  in  the  work 
that  has  been  ours  to  do,  and  we  are  so  grateful. 

THE  TEMPLE  AT   CARDSTON  PRAISED 


I  would  like  to  mention  that  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


65 


there  is  an  institution  that  bears  a  great  influence  among  the  people  there, 
especially  the  membership  of  our  Church.  The  leader  of  that  institution 
is  President  Edward  J.  Wood.  I  am  speaking  of  the  Cardston  Temple. 
I  have  discovered  that  permitting  the  missionaries  to  have  one  trip  to 
the  Cardston  Temple  has  revitalized  their  lives,  for  they  have  not  realized 
just  what  temple  activity  meant  until  they  came  under  the  spell  of  that 
man. 

A  MISSIONARY  HEALED  THROUGH  FAITH 

Not  so  very  long  ago  a  group  of  our  missionaries  were  leaving 
Vancouver  to  take  this  trip  over  to  Cardston  to  the  Temple.  One  of  these 
missionaries  had  had  a  drooping  eyelid  from  his  birth,  and  had  been 
operated  upon  by  the  doctors,  and  had  come  under  doctors'  care,  but  had 
never  been  helped  in  the  slightest  degree.  In  talking  with  his  District 
President  he  was  talking  about  that  eye,  it  worried  him  a  bit.  The  District 
President  said: 

Well,  you  know  what  happened  to  me.  I  had  a  blessing  here  last 
May  and  my  eyesight  has  been  restored  and  I  do  not  even  wear  my 
glasses  any  more.  Why  don't  you  have  your  eye  fixed  while  you  are 
over  there  this  time?  Why  not  have  President  Wood  give  you  a 
blessing? 

The  missionaries  went  over  to  the  Temple  and  finished  their  visit 
and  were  just  on  the  point  of  leaving.  President  Wood  came  into  the 
room  just  before  they  were  going  out  of  the  temple  and  said: 

I  understand  there  are  some  people  here  who  want  blessings.  The 
spirit  of  healing  is  in  the  Temple,  and  if  your  faith  is  right,  and  if  the 
Lord  is  willing,  you  may  have  the  blessing  you  desire. 

That  young  Elder  stood  there  and  heard  those  remarks,  and  then 
President  Wood  bowed  his  head  and  began  to  pray.  This  Elder  said 
to  me : 

President  Smith,  while  he  was  praying  the  most  wonderful  feeling 
came  over  me  I  shall  never  forget  it  all  the  days  of  my  life.  That 
eyelid  went  up,  and  I  walked  out  of  the  temple  with  my  eye  healed. 

As  I  stood  and  looked  at  him  and  noticed  that  that  eye  was  more 
open  than  the  left  one,  I  marveled  at  his  condition.  A  month  had  passed 
since  the  occurrence,  I  had  heard  about  it  and  was  wondering  whether 
it  would  remain  so,  but  it  has  remained  so,  and  he  has  called  in  all  his 
one-eyed  photographs  from  the  missionaries  and  says  he  wants  to  give 
them  one  with  his  two  eyes  open  instead  of  just  the  one. 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  no  matter  what  difficulties  and 
trials  come  to  us  we  always  have  access  to  our  Heavenly  Father  who 
will  always  reward  us  if  we  are  humble.  Remember,  when  we  do  what 
He  says  then  we  have  a  promise. 

May  God  bless  us  all  to  remember  this  fact,  that  it  is  through  our 
faith  and  through  our  works  that  our  blessings  come,  and  not  through 
what  others  may  do  for  us.  May  peace  be  in  your  homes,  and  joy  and 
happiness  be  with  you  always,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

ELDER  KENNETH  R.  STEVENS 

Former  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  This  is  an  unusual  surprise  to  me,  for  I 
had  not  expected  that  the  opportunity  would  be  provided  for  me  to 
occupy  this  position.  Neither,  however,  did  I  anticipate  that  a  call  would 
place  me  in  charge  of  one  of  the  Missions  of  this  Church. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Gospel 
in  the  land  of  Tahiti,  in  the  South  Pacific.  They  are  some  1500  strong, 
and  in  addition  to  those  who  claim  membership  in  our  Church,  I  also 
bring  you  greetings  from  some  more  than  20,000  residents  of  those 
islands  who  have  an  appreciation  of  our  program,  and  though  they  do 
not  claim  membership  in  our  Church,  principally  because  of  the  habits 
which  make  it  impossible  for  them  to  conform  to  our  standards,  yet  they 
appreciate  the  value  of  our  program  in  their  midst  and  would  hesitate  to 
see  it  taken  out  entirely.  They  truly  mourned  the  loss  of  the  missionaries 
when  they  were  withdrawn  from  those  islands,  and  they  look  forward 
to  the  time  when  they  may  return. 

I  rejoice  that  while  being  in  the  midst  of  that  people  I  came  to  learn 
through  their  legends  that  there  was  a  time  when  they  believed  in  the 
Gods  of  heaven  as  we  do,  even  a  plurality  of  Gods,  and  that  they  believed 
in  the  creation  of  this  earth  even  as  our  doctrine  teaches.  This,  however, 
has  been  explained  away  and  replaced  by  modern  Christian  doctrine 
which  teaches  of  a  God  who  is  everywhere  present,  and  so  small  He 
dwells  in  the  human  heart,  but  who  has  no  parts  nor  passions,  and  by  a 
different  story  of  the  creation.  And  so  it  thrilled  me  when  our  missionar- 
ies preached  Mormonism  to  have  those  people  nod  their  heads  and  say, 
"It  sounds  like  the  old  doctrine  which  was  common  to  our  people." 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  humility  that  I  appreciate  my  member- 
ship in  the  Church.  I  hold  it  dearly  sacred,  and  trust  that  I  may  continue 
to  be  favored  with  activity  in  the  Church,  because  I  realize  that  only  in 
that  service  is  there  safety  for  each  of  us. 

My  testimony  helps  me  to  understand  that  it  is  God's  Church  to 
which  we  belong,  that  it  was  established  under  His  own  immediate 
supervision,  and  that  the  Church  membership  will  be  held  individually 
responsible  for  its  degree  of  adherence  to  the  principles,  ordinances,  and 
covenants  which  we  accept. 

And  may  I  express  my  appreciation  to  my  parents  who  helped  me 
establish  a  foundation  for  the  testimony  I  have  of  the  Gospel.  My  father 
gave  his  life  for  the  Gospel  in  the  missionary  service  of  the  Church 
while  laboring  in  New  Zealand;  and  this  sacrifice,  while  he  was  but  a 
young  man,  made  an  indelible  impression  on  my  mind  that  our  Church 
must  have  the  Truth.  The  teachings  of  my  widowed  mother  and  the 
close  and  intimate  friendship  and  association  which  we  have  been  per- 
mitted to  enjoy,  have  further  aided  me  in  standing  by  the  Truth  when  I 
might  have  been  tempted  to  do  wrong.  I  am  thankful  that  she  still  lives 
and  continues  to  find  joy  and  happiness  in  the  program  of  the  Church. 

God  bless  us  all.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


67 


PRESIDENT  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to  stand 
before  you  and  bear  my  testimony  in  this  General  Conference.  I  have 
been  delighted  with  the  spirit  of  the  Conference  thus  far  and  with  the 
messages  we  have  heard.  I  am  more  than  pleased  that  our  beloved 
President  is  able  to  be  with  us  and  that  God  has  given  him  the  measure 
of  health  which  he  enjoys.  I  want  to  assure  him  that  my  prayer  for  him 
daily  is  that  God  will  prolong  his  life  so  long  as  it  is  sweet  for  him  and 
within  the  purposes  of  God  that  he  should  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
Church.  I  enjoyed  the  message  of  each  of  his  Counselors,  and  recom- 
mend to  all  of  us  that  we  carry  those  messages  in  our  hearts  and  strive  to 
live  their  import  and  purpose. 

I  was  very  much  pleased  with  what  President  McKay  gave  us  this 
morning,  with  the  message  of  cheer  and  comfort.  He  indicated  that 
while  we  should  be  cheerful  we  should  recognize  the  presence  of  certain 
evil  practices  within  our  midst.  Some  of  those  practices  have  come 
down  to  us  from  the  past,  and  one  hundred  years  of  our  life  have  not 
been  sufficient  to  eradicate  them  from  our  midst. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINT  BELIEF  REGARDING  GOD 

In  all  our  history  we  have  claimed  the  right  to  worship  God  ac- 
cording to  the  dictates  of  our  conscience,  and  we  have  added  we  extend  to 
other  people  the  same  privilege.  We  have  done  that,  we  have  offered 
in  many  instances  the  facilities  of  the  Church  for  the  worship  of  other 
denominations.  We  are  a  tolerant  people,  but  I  wish  to  suggest  this 
morning  that  in  the  idea  of  toleration  which  we  foster  we  should  never 
think  of  adopting  the  practices  of  other  people  which  are  not  according 
to  our  standards  and  beliefs. 

We  can  never  for  a  moment  fail  to  recognize  the  fact  that  we  do 
worship  God  in  a  different  manner  from  most  people;  that  the  type  of 
God  to  which  reference  was  just  made  is  not  the  one  we  worship.  We 
must  always  teach  our  children  that  the  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith  of 
the  identity  and  personality  of  God  and  Jesus  Christ  was  real,  and  that 
as  Latter-day  Saints  we  should  accept  it  as  such.  We  should  always 
teach  them  the  necessity  of  living  the  standards  of  the  Church — honesty, 
uprightness,  integrity  and  virtues  of  many  kinds,  and  chastity. 

DIFFERENCE  BETWEEN  RIGHT  AND  WRONG  SHOULD  BE  TAUGHT 

Many  people  believe  that  naturally  and  inherently  we  know  the  differ- 
ence between  right  and  wrong.  I  am  not  a  psychologist,  but  I  have  grown 
up  with  the  belief  that  we  have  a  God-given  conscience  that  teaches  us  to 
do  what  we  know  to  be  right  and  restrains  us  from  doing  what  we  know 
to  be  wrong,  but  I  am  a  firm  believer  in  the  fact  that  our  idea  of  right 
and  wrong  has  grown  out  of  the(  revelations  of  God  to  mankind,  and 
that  it  is  established  in  the  minds  of  our  children  by  the  teachings  of  their 
mothers  and  their  fathers.  If  they  fail  to  learn  through  our  neglect  that 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

certain  things  are  wrong  and  do  them,  there  is  then  the  responsibility 
lying  at  the  doors  of  their  fathers  and  mothers.  It  is  our  duty  as  fathers 
and  mothers  to  teach  them  frankly  these  things.  It  is  our  duty  as  leaders 
in  the  Priesthood  quorums  to  discuss  these  things,  to  come  to  a  mutual 
understanding  of  what  is  right  and  what  is  wrong,  and  to  avail  ourselves 
of  public  opportunity  to  teach  our  children  so  that  no  child  growing  up  in 
our  midst  can  say  he  has  never  been  taught. 

I  reiterate  what  I  said  here  at  one  time,  that  when  a  person  can  go 
to  an  officer  of  the  Church  and  say,  "Nobody  has  ever  taught  me  that 
a  certain  grievous  sin  that  we  decry  is  a  sin,"  somebody  is  at  fault,  for 
every  man  and  woman  in  our  communities  should  know  that  adultery 
and  fornication  and  kindred  practices  are  sinful  in  the  sight  of  God 
and  in  the  sight  of  this  community.  And  in  all  our  liberality  and  in  all 
the  concession  that  we  may  make  to  the  belief  of  other  people,  allowing 
them  to  worship  how,  when,  where,  and  what  they  may,  we  can  never 
recede  from  our  standards  and  adopt  theirs,  and  be  true  to  the  trust  that 
God  has  placed  in  us,  and  true  to  the  heritage  that  we  have  received  from 
our  fathers  and  our  mothers. 

A  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  GOSPEL  ADDS  STRENGTH  AGAINST  TEMPTATION 

I  believe  it  is  a  fortunate  thing  and  a  truth  that  we  are  superior 
in  our  private  lives  to  our  ancestors,  and  I  believe  that  superiority  has 
grown  out  of  the  testimony  that  has  been  handed  down  to  us  from  our 
parents,  and  through  the  inspiration  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father  that 
this  work  is  true,  that  it  has  given  us  a  devotion  which  other  people  lack 
for  the  standards  of  righteousness  and  uprightness,  of  truth  and  integrity. 

I  believe  that  we  should  stress  them  more,  I  believe  that  we  should 
lay  special  stress  upon  the  necessity  of  honesty  in  our  dealings  one  with 
another,  for  the  love  of  a  man  for  his  fellowmen  cannot  be  fostered 
when  he  takes  advantage  of  him  in  business  relations  or  social  contact. 

I  pray  that  God  will  give  us  His  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  may  live 
these  standards,  that  we  may  keep  them  dear  to  our  hearts,  that  we  may 
have  the  grace  and  the  gift  of  appealing  to  our  young  people  with  con- 
fidence. When  a  boy  comes  to  me  and  says,  "I  have  done  a  certain  thing, 
but  I  could  not  tell  it  to  my  father ;  I  could  not  tell  it  to  my  Bishop,"  I 
feel  that  there  has  been  a  barrier  raised  between  those  people  and  him 
that  ought  to  be  removed,  that  never  should  have  existed.  And  when 
another  boy  comes  to  me  and  says,  "I  have  stopped  this  practice  because 
my  Bishop  and  came  to  me  and  put  his  arm  around  me,  he  is  my  friend," 
I  know  that  in  that  instance  at  least  there  was  no  barrier  and  the  Spirit 
of  God  had  full  play  between  those  two,  and  that  boy  is  well  upon  his 
way.  That  is  my  feeling,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  it  sincerely  and 
honestly.  I  believe  we  should  teach  these  things  more  carefully,  more 
intimately  in  our  homes,  in  our  quorums,  and  in  our  contacts  socially  one 
with  another.  I  may  even  be  the  keeper  of  my  neighbor's  son  in  that 
respect,  and  if  I  see  an  opportunity  to  help  I  have  an  obligation  and 
duty  to  do  so. 

May  God  help  us  to  meet  these  responsibilties  fully,  completely. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


69 


honorably,  that  the  generation  that  grows  up  at  our  feet  may  call  us 
blessed  because  of  the  light  that  we  have  held  to  them  in  the  battle  of  life, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
will  guide  and  direct  me  in  my  remarks  this  morning. 

THE  AMERICAN  CONSTITUTION  INSPIRED 

As  the  Bible  is  referred  to  as  "the  law  and  the  testimony"  in  a  re- 
ligious sense,  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  "the  law  and  the 
testimony"  of  American  democracy.  Its  framers  were  inspired  men, 
and  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
accepts  it  as  such  in  view  of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  indicating  that  the  Lord  had  a  hand  in  the  framing  of  this  great 
document.  I  quote  from  Section  101  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Verse  77,  wherein  the  Lord  declares : 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I 
have  suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  _  for  the 
rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles. 

The  American  Constitution  or  Bill  of  Rights  was  paid  for  with  the 
life  blood  of  our  Revolutionary  fathers,  and  men  for  generations  before 
them  fought  kings,  died  in  battle,  suffered  imprisonment,  and  in  some 
instances  were  executed  in  order  to  win  personal  freedom. 

EVENTS  FORETOLD  BY  JEFFERSON 

The  chief  author  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  Thomas  Jef- 
ferson, was  not  only  an  inspired  man  in  what  he  advocated,  but  I  believe 
he  was  blessed  with  the  gift  of  prophecy*  I  should  like  to  read  a  Jeffer- 
sonian  prophecy  to  you : 

The  spirit  of  the  times  may  alter,  will  alter.  Our  rulers  will 
become  corrupt,  our  people  careless.  A  single  zealot  may  become 
persecutor,  and  better  men  be  his  victims.  It  can  never  be  too  often 
repeated,  that  the  time  for  fixing  every  essential  right,  on  a  legal  basis, 
is  while  our  rulers  are  honest,  and  ourselves  united.  From  the  con- 
clusion of  this  war  (of  the  Revolution)  we  shall  be  going  down  hill. 
It  will  not  then  be  necessary  to  resort  every  moment  to  the  people 
for  support.  They  will  be  forgotten,  therefore,  and  their  rights  dis- 
regarded. They  will  forget  themselves,  but  in  the  sole  faculty  of 
making  money,  and  will  never  think  of  uniting  to  effect  a  due  respect 
for  their  rights.  The  shackles,  therefore,  which  shall  not  be  knocked 
off  at  the  conclusion  of  the  war,  will  remain  on  us  long,  will  be  made 
heavier  and  heavier,  till  our  rights  shall  revive  or  expire  in  a  con- 
vulsion. 

AN  APOSTASY  FROM  TRUE  DEMOCRACY 

And  as  I  view  conditions  today  in  the  light  of  Jefferson's  prophecy, 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Dag 

a  great  apostasy  has  taken  place  from  "the  law  and  the  testimony"  of 
American  democracy,  or  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  Just 
as  there  has  been  an  apostasy  from  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
there  has  been  an  apostasy  from  those  divinely  given  principles  of  Gov- 
ernment which  have  been  transmitted  to  us  by  the  inspired  men  who 
founded  this  great  nation. 

What  is  apostasy  ?  Webster  defines  apostasy  as  being :  "Abandon- 
ment of  what  one  has  voluntarily  professed ;  total  desertion  of  principles 
or  faith." 

Stop  and  think  for  a  moment  if  you  will,  of  the  statement  of  Jeffer- 
son and  then  of  what  is  transpiring  today.  "A  single  zealot  may  become 
persecutor."  And  a  situation  of  this  kind  is  evidenced  in  our  Govern- 
ment today  wherein  bureaucrats  call  free  men  before  them,  try  them, 
and  sentence  them.  In  addition  thereto,  bureaucrats  have  assumed  the 
right  or  taken  the  privilege  of  enacting  law,  depriving  the  national  as- 
sembly and  representatives  of  the  people  of  the  sole  right  to  legislate,  and 
have  deprived  the  judiciary  of  its  right  to  try  offenders  of  the  law. 

The  people  have  been  f  orgotten  by  the  administrators  of  their  Gov- 
ernment. There  is  no  question  about  it.  Many  Governmental  policies 
now  in  operation  are  being  imposed  upon  the  people  without  their  consent 
or  knowledge.  In  contemplation  of  these  conditions,  it  can  readily  be 
seen  that  a  great  apostasy  from  "the  law  and  the  testimony"  of  the 
American  democracy,  the  Constitution,  is  taking  shape  and  form. 

Furthermore,  the  people  are  being  lulled  to  sleep  by  an  opiate  called 
"borrowed  prosperity."  As  Jefferson  indicated,  the  people  are  so  in- 
clined toward  the  gaining  of  wealth  they  are  forsaking  the  fundamental 
law  of  this  great  republic. 

A  new  danger — American  being  arrayed  against  American  in  a  new 
line  of  class  demarkation  which  will  divide  this  great  nation,  and,  as  has 
been  said,  "a  house  divided  against  itself  cannot  stand." 

One  of  these  groups  in  the  face  of  a  national  emergency  is  literally 
lying  down  on  the  job,  while  our  boys  are  in  the  military  camps  without 
proper  weapons  in  their  hands  to  learn  the  science  of  war.  In  the  days 
of  George  Washington  and  Abraham  Lincoln  such  a  situation  would 
have  been  handled  as  rebellion,  and  it  should  be  handled  as  such  today 
if  America  and  American  institutions  are  to  continue. 

One  of  the  great  fundamentals  advocated  by  the  founders  of  this 
American  nation  was  that  of  frugal  administration  of  government  af- 
fairs. Never  before  in  the  history  of  the  world  has  there  been  such  an 
extravagant  expenditure  of  the  people's  money. 

Someone  made  reference  to  four  or  five  freedoms.  We  have  had 
more  than  four  or  five  freedoms,  for  I  think  of  at  least  the  sixth  one— 
the  right  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  for  every  man  to 
work  how,  when,  or  where  he  will — and  that  right  has  disappeared.  It 
is  gone  and  now  lies  in  the  hands  of  a  group  who  rule  the  laboring  class 
of  the  United  States. 

I  point  out  these  few  facts  to  you  in  substantiation  of  the  point  that 
as  a  people  and  a  government  we  are  on  the  high  road  of  apostasy  from 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


71 


that  inspired  Bill  of  Rights  bequeathed  to  us  by  the  founders  of  this 
great  republic. 

SOUTH  CAROLINA  POLITICS 

One  of  the  most  insidious  practices  was  again  drawn  to  our  attention 
during  the  last  two  weeks,  with  reference  to  a  Senatorial  primary  held 
in  South  Carolina.  There  were  three  candidates  in  the  field  for  the  office 
of  United  States  Senator ;  and  as  usual  there  was  the  favored  candidate. 
He  called  upon  the  "powers  that  be,"  returning  to  his  State  with  the 
announcement  to  the  voters  that  $28,000,000  would  soon  be  spent  for 
the  development  of  certain  power  projects. 

This  grant  transmuted  into  votes,  did  not  quite  win  the  nomina- 
tion.   A  run-off  was  required.    The  favored  candidate's  48  per  cent 
of  the  total  vote  was  close  to  a  majority,  but  to  make  it  doubly  sure, 
another  $1,056,000  P.  W.  A.  grant  was  made  in  favor  of  the  capital 
of  the  State.    ( Time,  September  29,  1941 ) 

I  say  this  candidate  will  be  an  expensive  senator.  He  will  have  cost 
the  voters  of  his  State  and  of  the  United  States  $29,056,000.  More  than 
that,  he  is  not  worth  one  cent  as  a  representative  of  the  people  of  his 
State,  for  he  is  responsible  to  those  who  made  it  possible  for  the  Federal 
Government  to  spend  $29,056,000  for  his  State.  He  will  become  nothing 
more  or  less  than  a  rubber  stamp. 

In  the  light  of  the  above  practice,  a  new  form  of  apostasy  is  taking 
place,  in  that  politicians  and  government  agencies  bid  for  the  votes  of 
the  people ;  and  when  the  votes  of  the  people  are  placed  on  the  auction 
block  to  be  purchased  by  the  highest  bidder,  what  will  the  outcome  be  ? 

DESTRUCTION  OF  FOOD  DECRIED 

The  founders  of  this  great  country  believed  in  thrift  and  in  con- 
serving all  of  the  country's  resources,  but  again  apostasy  has  been  in 
the  hearts  of  men.  During  the  last  ten  years  funds  have  been  expended 
without  regard  to  amounts,  to  use,  or  to  the  benefits  derived  from  such 
wild  expenditures — food  was  destroyed  when  there  were  hungry  mouths 
that  should  have  been  provided  with  it.  But  thank  God,  in  the  Kingdom 
of  the  Christ  now  upon  the  earth,  there  are  some  modern  Josephs  of 
Egypt  who  during  the  time  of  wild  spending  and  destruction  of  food 
advised  this  people  to  conserve  their  resources  against  the  day  of  need. 
The  day  of  need  has  arrived,  as  had  been  predicted.  Millions  of  people 
in  stricken  Europe  will  feel  the  pangs  of  hunger.  This  day  is  now  rec- 
ognized by  those  who  were  responsible  for  the  destruction  of  food,  ad- 
vising us  to  produce  more,  to  practice  the  principle  of  conservation. 
Would  it  not  have  been  a  wiser  policy  to  have  heeded  the  inspired 
servants  of  God  seven  or  eight  years  ago  and  saved  that  which  was  de- 
stroyed ? 

While  the  policy  of  producing  more  food  and  conserving  it  is  being 
advocated  on  one  hand,  yet  on  the  other  hand  those  who  are  responsible 
for  national  finances  continue  to  spend  lavishly  and  without  reservation 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

on  projects  which,  in  the  ultimate,  will  be  of  but  little  benefit  to  the 
people  as  a  whole. 

What  will  be  the  ultimate  outcome  of  it  all  ?  Thomas  Jefferson  has 
predicted  what  it  will  be,  and  may  I  repeat  his  statement  to  you : 

The  shackles,  therefore,  which  shall  not  be  knocked  off  at  the  conclu- 
sion of  the  war,  will  remain  on  us  long,  will  be  made  heavier  and 
heavier,  until  our  rights  shall  *  *  *  expire  in  a  convulsion. 

If  our  rights  expire  in  a  convulsion,  the  body  politic  now  being 
slowly  drugged  by  the  opiate  of  a  borrowed  prosperity,  will  suffer  a 
major  financial  operation,  which  will  cause  the  death  of  the  world's 
greatest  democracy ;  and  the  vultures  and  the  buzzards  of  some  foreign 
"ism"  will  be  waiting  the  moment  to  step  in  and  devour  the  carcass. 

THE  POSITION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

There  should  be  no  question  with  reference  to  the  stand  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  with  reference  to  the 
principles  of  American  democracy,  for  Brigham  Young  declared : 

I  expect  to  see  the  day  when  the  Elders  of  Israel  will  assist  civil 
and  religious  liberty  and  every  constitutional  liberty  bequeathed  to 
us  by  our  fathers,  and  spread  these  rights  abroad  in  connection  with 
the  Gospel  for  the  salvation  of  all  nations.  I  shall  see  this  whether 
I  live  or  die.    (J.  of  D.  p.  553) 

Again  he  declared : 

I  do  not  lift  my  voice  against  the  great  and  glorious  Govern- 
ment guaranteed  to  every  citizen  by  our  Constitution,  but  against 
those  corrupt  administrators  who  trample  the  Constitution  and  just 
laws  under  their  feet.    (J.  of  D.  p.  555) 

And  in  making  an  effort  for  the  preservation  of  our  great  Bill  of 
Rights,  may  we  do  so  energetically  and  willingly  that  others  seeing  our 
example  will  be  inspired  to  follow  after  us  and  not  for  one  moment  to 
continue  in  the  lethargy  we  are  now  in,  for  we  may  find  ourselves  in  the 
position  of  a  conquered  and  trampled  France,  best  stated  in  the  words 
of  old  Marshal  Petain  when  he  pronounced  the  following  requiem  over 
his  stricken  country: 

Our  spirit  of  enjoyment  was  stronger  than  our  spirit  of  sacri- 
fice. We  wanted  to  have  more  than  we  wanted  to  give.  We  tried 
to  spare  effort,  and  met  disaster. 

After  apostasy  there  is  always  an  opportunity  of  restitution  and 
restoration.  I  would  to  God  that  another  angel  could  fly  through  the 
midst  of  heaven,  as  did  that  angel  that  John  the  Revelator  saw,  that 
angel  which  returned  to  earth  and  brought  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ! 
Oh,  if  such  an  angel  could  now  fly  through  the  midst  of  the  heavens, 
warning  and  forewarning  the  American  people  of  what  ultimately  lies 
before  them,  what  a  blessing  it  would  be!  But,  on  the  other  hand,  I 
wish  to  assure  you  the  Lord  will  not  send  an  angel.  It  is  not  necessary, 
for  His  restored  Church  is  upon  the  earth,  and  at  its  head  there  stands 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


73 


a  Prophet,  a  Revelator,  and  a  Seer  who  has  warned  this  people  and  the 
American  people  over  a  period  of  many  years. 

And  now,  I  pray  that  those  who  belong  to  this  Church  will  hearken 
to  that  warning.  I  sincerely  hope  the  American  nation  will  turn  for 
counsel  toward  these  great  mountains  where  the  House  of  the  Lord  is 
established,  where  His  inspired  servants  may  be  found,  and,  above  all, 
that  this  nation's  people  will  hearken  to  that  counsel,  to  achieve  the 
place  that  Thomas  Jefferson  predicted  would  be  our  blessing  if  we  fol- 
lowed the  fundamentals  of  government  as  laid  down  by  the  founders 
of  this  great  nation,  and  to  avoid  the  catastrophe  that  now  lies  imme- 
diately ahead : 

Let  us  then  with  courage  and  confidence  pursue  our  own  Federal 
and  republican  principles,  our  attachment  to  our  Union  and  repre- 
sentative government.  Kindly  separated  by  Nature  and  a  wide 
ocean  from  the  exterminating  havoc  of  one  quarter  of  the  globe;  too 
high  minded  to  endure  the  degradations  of  the  others;  possessing  a 
chosen  country,  with  room  enough  for  our  descendants  to  the  hun- 
dredth and  thousandth  generation;  entertaining  a  due  sense  of  our 
equal  rights  to  the  use  of  our  own  faculties,  to  the  acquisitions  of  our 
industry,  to  honor  and  confidence  from  our  fellow-citizens,  resulting, 
not  from  birth,  but  from  our  actions  and  their  sense  of  therrt;  en- 
lightened by  a  benign  religion,  professed,  indeed  and  practised  in 
various  forms,  yet  all  of  them  including  honesty,  truth,  temperance, 
gratitude,  and  the  love  of  man;  acknowledging  and  adoring  an  over- 
ruling Providence  which  by  all  its  dispensations  proves  that  it  delights 
in  the  happiness  of  man  here  and  his  greater  happiness  hereafter; 
and  with  all  these  blessings,  what  more  is  necessary  to  make  us  a 
happy  and  a  prosperous  people?  Still  one  thing  more,  fellow  citizens, 
a  wise  and  frugal  government,  which  shall  restrain  men  from  injuring 
one  another,  which  shall  leave  them  otherwise  free  to  regulate  their 
own  pursuits  of  industry  and  improvement,  and  shall  not  take  from 
the  mouth  of  labor  the  bread  it  has  earned.  This  is  the  sum  of  good 
government,  and  this  is  necessary  to  close  the  circle  of  our  felicities. 

As  members  of  this  Church  we  know  what  our  relationship  to  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  is.  We  know  what  our  responsibili- 
ties are,  for  God  has  revealed  them  to  us.  I  sincerely  pray  as  citizens 
of  the  United  States,  as  members  of  this  great  Church,  we  will  set  an 
example  which  will  create,  if  it  is  possible,  a  restitution  of  all  those 
glorious  privileges  and  blessings  that  we  have  lost  and  are  losing — and 
we  will  arouse  America  by  our  example. 

I  testify  to  you  that  the  destiny  of  this  Church  is  leadership ;  it  is 
God's  Church,  it  is  His  work,  and  as  Brigham  Young  declared,  the 
Elders  of  the  Church  will  not  only  carry  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  but  they  will  also  carry  those  principles  of 
freedom  and  equal  rights,  which  will  be  beneficial  to  all  flesh. 

May  we,  in  the  spirit  of  the  martyred  Emancipator,  approach  this 
task : 

With  malice  toward  none,  with  charity  for  all,  with  firmness  in 
the  right  as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,  let  us  strive  on  to  finish 
the  work  we  are  in,  to  bind  up  the  nation's  wounds,  to  care  for  him 
who  shall  have  borne  the  battle  and  for  his  widow  and  his  orphan,  to 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Dag 

do  all  which  may  achieve  and  cherish  a  just  and  lasting  peace  among 
ourselves  and  with  all  nations. 

that  in  the  end,  "this  Government  of  the  people,  by  the  people,  and  for 
the  people  shall  not  perish  from  the  earth." 

This  I  humbly  pray  will  be  its  blessing,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  singers  from  the  Pasadena  Stake  have  contributed  to  the  in- 
spiration of  this  very  important  meeting.  We  appreciate  the  service 
they  have  rendered  and  sincerely  thank  them. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 
Elder  William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Mount  Ogden 
Stake,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  2  p.  m.,  Saturday  afternoon, 
October  4. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  director;  Alexander  Schreiner, 
organist. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man" — 
Phelps. 

Elder  Leland  E.  Anderson,  President  of  the  South  Sanpete  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Jesus,  Word  of  God" — 
Mozart. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  again  the  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  capa- 
city. I  can  see  people  standing  in  the  gallery  and  in  the  doorways.  We 
welcome  you  to  this  the  fourth  session  of  this  the  112th  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


75 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  having  again  the  oppor- 
tunity of  attending  one  of  the  great  General  Conferences  of  the  Church. 
I  pray  that  I  may  be  directed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God,  so  that  what- 
ever I  may  say  may  be  acceptable  to  Him  and  profitable  to  you. 

PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  COVENANTS 

I  listened  with  a  great  deal  of  interest  to  the  sermon  of  the  President 
of  the  Church  yesterday,  and  ever  since  I  have  had  in  my  heart  the  feeling 
to  say  to  my  assembled  brethren  and  sisters  that  they  would  do  well  to 
memorize,  or  at  least  learn  very  carefully,  the  first  extract  that  he  read 
from  his  sermons,  the  one  in  which,  when  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the  Church,  he  made  as  it  were  a  covenant  with  God  and  the  people 
as  to  how  his  conduct  would  be.  It  would  be  well,  I  think,  if  every  one  of 
us,  in  our  respective  callings  and  activities,  would  make  just  such  a  cove- 
nant with  the  Lord  and  with  those  whom  we  are  called  to  serve. 

THE  CONFERENCE  GATHERINGS  REMARKABLE 

I  am  always,  on  occasions  like  this,  and  many  other  occasions,  made 
to  marvel  at  the  vitality  and  the  steady  growth  of  the  restored  Church 
of  Christ.  Two  evenings  ago  I  attended  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  pageant 
in  this  great  building.  It  was  filled  to  overflowing,  and  thousands  were 
turned  away.  As  announced  by  President  McKay,  in  the  four  sessions 
of  this  Conference,  all  held  on  week  days,  the  Tabernacle  has  been  filled 
to  capacity,  with  many  standing.  It  is  remarkable,  an  evidence  of  that 
which  binds  together  this  great  kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

Perhaps  the  most  remarkable  thing  about  these  great  gatherings 
is  that  there  are  so  many  men  here.  A  friend,  not  of  this  State,  nor  of 
our  faith,  who  has  been  visiting  some  of  the  meetings  of  this  Conference, 
told  me  yesterday  of  the  deep  impression  made  upon  him  by  these 
gatherings,  and  emphasized  the  fact  that  there  were  so  many  men  present. 
It  is  a  unique  thing  in  the  history  of  religion,  at  least  in  the  history  of 
modern  religion.  In  this  Church,  at  least,  it  seems  that  the  men  are 
catching  up  with  the  women,  and  that  is  some  accomplishment ! 

PROGRESS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  have  been  thinking  today,  as  I  looked  over  this  vast  body  of 
Priesthood,  officers  of  the  Church,  that  if  Brigham  Young  and  those  as- 
sociated with  him,  who  laid  the  foundations  of  this  structure  could  see, 
as  I  believe  they  do  see,  this  building  with  its  main  floor  chiefly  filled 
with  Bishops  and  their  counselors  and  Stake  Presidents  with  their  coun- 
selors, they  would  and  must  feel  the  thrill  that  we  feel.  Their  dreams  are 
being  realized.  I  really  wish  that  all  of  you  could  be  on  this  stand  and 
see  the  faces  of  this  vast  assemblage  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Yet  I  suppose 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

none  should  be  filled  with  marvel,  or  wonder,  at  the  growth  of  the  Church. 
After  all,  we  have  something  precious  to  offer  the  world.  Our  traffic 
is  in  truth ;  and  truth  is  the  strongest  cement  for  holding  human  organi- 
zations together.  We  offer  the  world  truth ;  and  truth  so  organized  for 
human  needs,  and  so  brought  within  human  understanding,  that  it  be- 
comes the  answer  to  the  deep  questions  which  lie  in  every  human  heart, 
in  every  human  soul.  We  answer  these  questions.  We  offer  that  for 
which  humanity  is  hungering.  I  look  forward  to  the  time  when  this 
Church,  because  it  is  founded  in  truth,  shall  lead  in  all  matters  of  right- 
eousness throughout  the  world,  until  the  very  end,  when  every  knee  shall 
bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord. 

Now,  whenever  I  think  about  the  progress  of  the  Church  I  think 
also  about  the  devoted  thousands  who  make  our  progress  possible.  The 
statement  made  by  President  McKay  this  morning  was  certainly  thrilling 
to  all  of  us,  with  respect  to  the  progress  of  the  Church.  It  has  come 
about  because  thousands  and  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  de- 
votedly performed  their  duties,  done  their  work,  lived  the  law  as  they 
understood  it.  Consequently  the  Church  is  growing,  and  I  believe  is 
acceptable  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  even  though  not  all  are  doing  the 
best  they  might  do  in  behalf  of  the  Lord's  great  cause. 

PERSONAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

That  leads  me  to  a  principle  which  I  would  like  to  lay  before  you, — 
a  very  simple  one,  known  to  all ;  but  sometimes  the  simplest  things  are 
the  most  important ;  and  sometimes,  too,  the  simplest  things  are  those 
which  are  most  easily  forgotten.  Membership  in  this  Church  involves 
personal  responsibility.  The  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  presents^ 
the  doctrine  of  individual  salvation.  There  is  no  mass  salvation  in  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  One  by  one  we  enter  into  the  glory  of  the  Lord.  I 
make  my  covenants  alone.  I  go  into  the  waters  of  baptism.  No  one  can  do 
that  for  me  if  I  live  on  earth.  Faith,  repentance,  baptism,  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  all  the  things  that  pertain  to  the  Gospel ;  I  must  accept 
myself.  I  cannot  place  the  burden  upon  any  one  else.  One  of  the  simplest, 
as  I  have  said,  of  all  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  one  of  the  most 
important,  is  that  we  accept  personal  responsibility  for  the  work  of  God's 
kingdom. 

This  is,  I  think,  illustrated  nowhere  better  than  in  our  Temple  work. 
We  have  thousands  of  names  on  our  records,  but  we  must  do  the  work 
for  them  name  by  name,  name  by  name;  and  even  then,  after  that  has 
been  done,  each  one  of  the  dead,  having  this  work  done  for  him  here, 
must,  upon  his  own  volition,  accept  the  work  done,  before  it  becomes 
effective. 

We  should  all  try  to  cultivate  the  feeling  of  personal  responsibility 
for  the  work  of  these  latter  days.  A  church  is  but  a  collection  of  individ- 
uals. Any  organization,  a  nation,  is  but  a  collection  of  individuals.  The 
church  is  no  greater  than  the  sum  total  of  the  activities  of  the  individ- 
uals belonging  to  it;  the  nation  is  no  greater.  We  should  accept  this 
personal  responsibility :  This  is  my  Church,  not  my  Bishop's  Church,  my 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


77 


Stake  President's  Church,  President  Grant's  Church.  In  my  field  of 
activity,  within  my  calling,  I  am  just  as  responsible  for  the  welfare  of 
this  Church  as  any  one  of  the  brethren  who  may  preside  over  the 
different  divisions  of  the  Church.  Only  as  we  understand  that  principle 
and  practice  it  are  we  going  to  make,  really,  this  splendid  organization 
into  one  fully  acceptable  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

With  respect  to  this  great  Conference  the  same  principle  applies.  Are 
the  instructions  given  from  this  stand  for  me  or  for  my  neighbor? 
There  is  a  temptation,  as  we  sit  here  and  hear  the  old  principles  of  the 
Gospel  discussed  over  and  over  again  to  say  to  ourselves,  "Why,  that  is 
for  my  neighbor.  Brother  Jones,  just  around  the  corner,  needs  this 
instruction.  I  will  pass  it  on  to  him  when  I  get  home."  But  the  counsel 
is  meant  for  me.  These  Conference  instructions  have  no  virtue,  no  value, 
to  me  unless  I  accept  them  as  if  they  were  directed  to  me,  to  be  built  into 
my  life,  to  be  used  by  me  in  my  daily  work. 

No  person  can  accept  full  responsibility,  personal  responsibility, 
as  he  should,  for  the  welfare  of  this  work,  unless  he  learns  the  great 
secret  art  of  self-forgetfulness.  We  must  learn  to  forget  ourselves  in  a 
great  cause,  to  submerge  ourselves  in  that  great  cause,  to  surrender  to 
that  great  cause.  The  soul  of  man  never  grows  to  its  full  stature  if  the 
individual  stands  up  before  us  while  we  are  thinking :  What  am  I  getting 
out  of  this  thing?  Only  those  who  have  learned  to  give  themselves  to 
a  cause  enable  their  souls  to  grow  to  full  stature.  That  also  is  of  impor- 
tant consideration  for  us  here. 

VISIT  TO  THE  CANADIAN  MISSION 

I  have  just  returned  from  the  Canadian  Mission,  a  splendid  Mission, 
in  good  condition,  presided  over  by  our  colleague  and  good  friend,  David 
A.  Smith.  I  met  the  missionaries  there,  and  over  and  over  again  they 
said :  "This  is  the  happiest  time  of  our  lives.  We  never  had  as  good  a  time." 
The  reason  is,  of  course,  that  they  were  practicing  the  very  art  of  self- 
forgetfulness.  They  were  giving  themselves  to  a  cause.  After  we  return 
from  our  missions  if  we  give  ourselves  to  the  great  cause  of  the  Lord  at 
home,  we  shall  have  equal  satisfaction,  equal  joy.  There  is  no  reason 
why  our  missionary  service  should  be  any  happier  than  any  other  Church 
service,  if  we  but  learn  the  great  principle  of  self-forgetfulness,  or  sur- 
rendering to  a  great  cause. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CITIZENSHIP 

I  wonder  if  I  dare  to  say  that  if  we  dig  down  into  the  motives  of 
humanity  we  shall  find  that  the  horrors  of  this  day,  the  war,  and  all  the 
troubles  that  surround  us  at  this  time,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  are 
rooted  in  the  failure  of  men  to  assume  personal  responsibility  for  the 
organization  to  which  they  belong.  In  democratic  governments,  at  least 
— and  all  the  European  nations  now  at  warfare  have  a  democratic  basis, 
though  they  have  departed  from  it — if  every  man  in  those  countries  had 
sensed  his  personal  responsibility  for  his  nation,  I  doubt  whether  this 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  .  Second  Day 

warfare,  these  bloody  horrors,  would  be  upon  the  world  as  they  are  at 
the  present  time. 

We  are  too  prone,  I  think,  to  look  for  complex  causes,  for  things 
far  away,  when  in  fact  the  issues  strike  home  into  our  firesides  within  the 
simplicity  of  life  and  action.  Life  is  not  very  complex,  after  all,  if  we 
analyze  it  thoroughly  and  well.  This  is  not  President  Roosevelt's 
country.  It  is  my  country,  and  I  must  help  to  make  it  what  it  should  be. 
This  is  not  President  Grant's  Church.  It  is  mine,  and  I  have  to  help 
make  it  what  it  should  be.  That  is  my  message  to  you  here  today. 

LOVE  FOR  THE  LORD  SHOWN  IN  KEEPING  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

Now,  in  the  minute  or  two  left  for  me  let  us  just  bring  these  thoughts 
together  by  saying  that  to  be  personally  responsible  for  the  welfare  of 
this  Church  we  must  do  what  President  Grant  has  told  us  to  do,  to  keep 
the  commandments,  to  speak  well  of  the  Church,  to  find  no  fault,  to  look 
for  the  good,  and  to  perform  the  duties  assigned  to  us.  In  our  little 
field  of  labor,  whatever  it  may  be,  let  us  do  our  work  as  faithfully  as 
President  Grant  does  it  in  his  field.  Then  all  together  we  shall  be  able 
to  build  a  marvelous  institution,  one  acceptable  to  our  Father  in  heaven, 
the  Kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

Keeping  the  commandments  has  been  President  Grant's  message  to 
this  Church  from  the  beginning.  I  jotted  down  here,  as  I  thought  of  this 
subject,  that  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith :  "If  thou  lovest 
me"- —  and  this  morning  we  had  a  marvelous  sermon  on  love  as  against 
hate,  one  that  will  linger  long  in  our  memories —  "If  thou  lovest  me  thou 
shalt  serve  me  and  keep  my  commandments."  Then  we  have  the  promise 
given  through  the  same  latter-day  Prophet : 

"He  that  is  faithful,  the  same  shall  be  kept." — That  means  a  great 
deal :  "He  that  is  faithful,  the  same  shall  be  kept  and  blessed  with  much 
truth."  And  then  the  saying  of  the  ancient  prophet  comes  back  to  me, 
that  if  we  do  all  these  things,  brethren  and  sisters,  men  and  women  of 
the  Church,  accepting  our  responsibility  as  individual  members  of  the 
Church,  the  promise  by  the  prophet  of  old  will  come  true : 

One  man  of  you  shall  chase  a  thousand,  for  the  Lord  your  God, 
he  it  is  that  fighteth  for  you. 

NEPHl's  WORDS  TO  HIS  BRETHREN 

I  think  perhaps  I  can  take  one  minute  more,  then  I  am  through. 
Nephi  had  his  difficulties.  His  brothers  did  not  support  him,  did  not 
support  their  father,  Lehi,  were  in  rebillion  against  the  Lord.  Then, 
one  day  their  brother  Nephi  took  them  in  hand  and  tried  to  remedy  the 
situation,  to  convert  them : 

And  I  said  unto  them:  Have  ye  inquired  of  the  Lord? 

And  they  said  unto  me:  We  have  not;  for  the  Lord  maketh  no 
such  thing  known  unto  us. 

Behold,  I  said  unto  them:  How  is  it  that  ye  do  not  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord?  How  is  it  that  ye  will  perish,  because  of 
the  hardness  of  your  hearts? 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


79 


Do  ye  not  remember  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  said?  If 
ye  will  not  harden  your  hearts,  and  ask  me  in  faith,  believing  that  ye 
shall  receive,  with  diligence  in  keeping  my  commandments,  surely 
these  things  shall  be  made  known  unto  you. 

This  is  the  simplest  of  all  formulas  to  win  the  Lord's  favor  handed 
down  from  ancient  days — to  reach  out  to  the  Lord,  to  trust  Him,  to 
keep  His  commandments.  If  we  do  this,  all  that  we  need  shall  be  given 
us,  and  all  shall  be  well  with  us,  as  individuals  and  as  builders  of  the 
Lord's  latter-day  kingdom. 

God  bless  us  and  make  us  faithful  in  these  things,  and  help  us  to 
understand  more  fully  the  meaning  of  the  Gospel,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  I  have  felt  just  as  you  have 
felt  during  this  Conference,  but  particularly  so  during  the  remarks 
of  President  Grant,  for  I  have  watched  him  as  long  as  I  have 
memory,  and  as  he  was  talking  there  kept  occurring  and  recurring 
to  me  an  incident  that  I  want  to  pass  on. 

INCIDENTS  FROM  PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  EARLY  LIFE 

It  has  been  my  privilege,  during  the  last  few  days,  to  examine 
the  records  of  the  Thirtieth  Quorum  of  Seventy,  and  in  my  examina- 
tion of  this  quorum  of  Seventy  I  discovered  that  it  is  the  quorum 
to  which  President  Grant  belonged,  and  that  sixty-six  years  ago, 
when  he  was  but  nineteen  years  of  age,  he  joined  this  quorum  of 
Seventy,  and  then  one  of  the  first  things  that  President  Grant  said 
I  copied  down,  and  I  want  to  read  to  you  just  what  he  did  say.  This 
was  on  June  16,  1876. 

President  Grant  stated  he  was  pleased  to  meet  with  the  brethren; 
bore  an  excellent  testimony  in  regard  to  paying  tithing,  and  felt  well 
in  the  work  of  God,  and  felt  to  do  his  duty  in  the  kingdom. 

Then  again  this  statement :  March  29th,  1877 — and  remember 
now,  President  Grant  was  but  twenty  years  of  age. 

He  was  gratified  at  being  present;  realized  that  the  consideration 
of  religion  should  be  uppermost  in  our  minds;  desired  means  and 
wealth  to  do  good,  and  not  to  use  in  damning  himself;  wished  always 
to  have  this  spirit  with  him. 

There  are  many  other  things  that  were  said  by  him  that  I  shall 
not  read,  but  that,  in  and  of  itself,  is  enough  to  give  to  us  the  real, 
true  insight  of  this  great  man.  It  seems  to  me  that  God  has  con- 
tinued His  method  of  appointing  leaders.  You  recall  how  David 
was  called.  God  seems  to  have  had  His  desires  answered,  in  putting 
His  fingers  on  the  youth  who  He  knew  would  go  forward  with  the 
work  in  a  way  that  would  please  Him. 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 


.A  VALIANT  SOLDIER 

Now,  today  I  received  a  letter  from  the  far-off  regions  of  New 
Zealand,  and  in  that  letter  I  received  pome  very  cheering  news  to 
me.  Our  boys  in  New  Zealand  who  belong  to  this  Church,  who  are 
in  the  war,  were  not  lost  as  reported.  They  have  been  found,  nearly 
all,  or  all  of  them,  and  taken  into  prison  camps.  Brother  George 
Katene,  one  of  the  stalwart  Elders  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  in  that  land  far  from  his  home  has  been  signally 
honored.  He  has  been  marked  with  the  decoration  of  Great  Britain, 
for  his  valor — and  may  I  say  that  he  is  one  of  the  graduates  of 
our  Maori  Agricultural  College. 

GRATITUDE  EXPRESSED  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  jotted  down  a  few  things  that  I  thought  I  would  like  to  men- 
tion here,  and  if  I  can  get  through  with  them  in  just  a  few  minutes  I 
will  be  very,  very  happy. 

When  I  read  of  the  sorrow  and  distress  that  is  abroad  upon 
the  earth  today  I  hold  as  the  most  precious  gift  God  may  give  to  me 
my  citizenship  in  these  United  States,  this  blessed  land  of  Joseph. 
My  heart  is  poured  out  in  constant  gratitude  for  this  glorious  Gospel 
upon  which  we  are  feasting  here  today.  But  for  it  I  should  not  be 
here,  and  perhaps  should  not  have  had  earthly  tabernacle.  In 
humble  gratitude  I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  was  born  a 
generation  removed  from  the  terrible  onslaught  made  by  Satan  to 
destroy  this  work  in  its  inception,  and  that  those  heroes  who  pre- 
ceded me  so  discouraged  the  Evil  One,  by  their  holy  faith  and 
devotion,  that  there  came  a  lull  in  the  persecution,  and  in  that  lull 
I  was  born.  I  think  I  have  in  my  veins  some  of  the  blood  of  those 
who  suffered  and  were  tempted,  so  I  have  obtained  my  physical 
persecution  in  an  easy  way.  But  come  what  will,  I  hope  I  may 
never  deny  that  knowledge  which  is  in  my  heart  today. 

satan's  power  to  tempt 
Abraham  Lincoln  is  quoted  as  stating  this : 

I  believe  we  are  all  agents  and  instruments  of  Divine  Providence. 
I  hold  myself  in  my  present  position,  and  with  the  authority  invested 
in  me,  as  an  instrument  of  Providence.  I  am  conscious  every  moment 
that  all  I  am  and  all  I  have  are  subject  to  the  control  of  a  Higher 
Power,  and  that  Power  can  use  me  in  any  manner  and  at  any  time  as 
in  His  wisdom  might  be  pleasing  to  Him. 

I  believe,  however,  that  one  so  suave  and  so  cunning  as  his 
Satanic  Majesty,  in  order  to  induce  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  as  he  did,  with  his  offer  if  He  would  bow  down  and  worship 
him,  is  capable  of  bringing  to  us  other  temptations  and  other  trials 
than  physical  trials,  and  I  rely  wholly  and  solely  upon  the  answer 
of  Christ  to  Satan.  It  is  a  comfort  to  me :  "Thou  shalt  worship  the 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


81 


Lord  thy  God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  Thereupon  the 
devil  left  Him,  and  angels  came  and  ministered  to  Him. 

god's  power  made  manifest 

So  in  this  rocky  fastness,  and  in  this  great  desert  land  of  ours, 
God  established  this  Church.  To  our  forefathers  be  the  glory.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  there  came  to  them,  if  not  angelic  inferences, 
help,  sustaining  power.  It  was  the  power,  at  least,  of  God,  that  made 
them  continue  on  in  what  they  did,  until  we  find  ourselves  as  we 
are  today.  So  the  Lord  brought  about  exactly  what  the  Prophet 
Isaiah  declared  would  be  brought  to  pass: 

For  as  the  earth  bringeth  forth  her  bud,  and  as  the  garden  causes 
the  things  that  are  sown  in  it  to  spring  forth;  so  the  Lord  God  will 
cause  righteousness  and  praise  to  spring  forth  before  all  the  nations. 

This  has  been  literally  fulfilled  in  my  lifetime,  so  with  gratitude 
in  my  heart  I  praise  my  Heavenly  Father.  I  thank  Him  for  all  that 
has  come  to  me,  and  all  that  has  come  and  is  coming  and  will  con- 
tinue to  come  to  this  great  Church. 

Lincoln's  words  fulfilled 

God  the  eternal  Father,  I  thank  Thee  that  we  have  men,  even 
in  these  great  warring  armies,  who  may  go  forth  with  this  Gospel  of 
ours  in  their  hearts,  because  those  men  will  scatter  peace,  comfort 
and  cheer  to  all  with  whom  they  come  in  contact. 

Let  me  again  tell  you  what  Lincoln  said,  and  he  said  this  just 
before  Congress  convened  in  1862 : 

Fellow  citizens,  we  cannot  escape  history.  We  of  this  Congress 
and  of  this  administration  will  be  remembered  in  spite  of  ourselves. 
No  personal  significance  or  insignificance  can  spare  one  or  the  other 
of  us.  The  fiery  trials  through  which  we  pass  will  light  us  down  with 
honor  or  dishonor,  to  the  last  generation. 

That  is  true.  What  was  true  then  is  true  of  this  Church  today. 
The  history  of  this  up-till-now  fearless  people,  who  have  made  the 
Church  what  it  is,  shows  that  they  have  done  so  on  a  few  funda- 
mental things,  some  of  which  are  the  following:  Implicit  faith  in 
God;  confidence  and  trust  in  each  other;  scrupulous  honor  and 
integrity;  thrift,  and  the  God-given  privilege  of  industrious  labor, 
and  a  feeling  of  repugnance  that  is  akin  to  disgrace,  when  any  of 
us  must  carry  the  burden  of  debt. 

These  are  some  of  the  glorious  things  for  which  I  am  thankful 
to  my  Heavenly  Father  today. 

admonitions  of  the  savior 

These  are  some  of  the  glorious  things  that  our  fathers  practiced. 
That  is^why  we  are  here  today,  enjoying  all  the  blessings  of  health 
and  strength,  wealth  and  power,  but  above  all  these  temporal  bless- 
ings, a  spiritual  contentment  which  solaces  us  from  day  to  day. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

It  is  also  the  reason  we  can  draw  near  to  Christ's  admonition 
recorded  in  St.  Matthew,  Chapter  5,  verses  43-48. 

Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neigh- 
bour, and  hate  thine  enemy. 

But  I  say  unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you, 
do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully 
use  you,  and  persecute  you; 

That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which  is  in  Heaven: 
for  He  maketh  His  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  on  the  good,  and  sendeth 
rain  on  the  just  and  on  the  unjust. 

For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you,  what  reward  have  ye?  Do 
not  even  the  publicans  the  same? 

And  if  ye  salute  your  brethren  only,  what  do  ye  more  than  others? 
Do  not  even  the  publicans  so? 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect. 

THE  WORK  OF  STAKE  MISSIONARIES 

During  the  first  eight  months  of  1941,  your  Stake  missionaries 
disposed  of  4,812  Standard  Works  of  the  Church  and  3,873  other 
books;  performed  1,776  baptisms;  and  brought  into  communion 
with  the  Church  3,695  inactive  members. 

My  time  is  up.  I  offer  a  sincere  prayer  to  God  that  He  will  not 
only  bless  us,  but  bless  every  nation  and  every  people  and  every 
tribe  of  people  that  exists  upon  the  earth,  and  prepare  the  backs 
for  the  stripes  that  some  shall  receive ;  and  to  those  who  receive 
nothing  but  plaudits,  let  them  receive  them  in  humility  and  in  all 
praise  to  God  for  His  mercies  to  us,  all  of  which  I  ask  in  Jesus' 
name,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  prophet  Azariah  said  to  young  and  old : 

The  Lord  is  with  you  while  ye  be  with  him,  and  if  ye  seek  him 
ye  will  be  found  of  him.    But  if  ye  forsake  him,  he  will  forsake  you. 

THE  COST  OF  TRANSGRESSION 

This  is  partnership  with  God.  I  wish  you  would  consider  with  me, 
for  a  few  moments,  this  question :  What  does  it  cost  not  to  serve  Jesus 
Christ  ?  The  figures  to  me  are  astronomical.  With  my  poor  mathematical 
mind  I  cannot  soar  to  their  heights.  But  I  can  go  and  look  at  the  wretched 
inmates  of  the  prison ;  I  can  look  at  men  and  women  who  are  crushed 
beneath  sin ;  I  can  visualize  those  battlefields  over  the  waters,  those 
valleys  that  are  running  red  with  human  blood, — and  I  ask  myself  what 
does  it  cost  not  to  serve  Jesus  Christ  ?  The  answer  is  before  me.  Beneath 
the  stars  of  heaven  there  is  no  sight  so  pathetic  as  the  wreck  of  a  human 
being,  and  a  home  covered  with  shame  is  a  tragedy. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  83 

The  Lord  said: 

Behold,  the  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity;  and  it  must  needs  be 
that  the  children  of  men  are  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  both  the 
Gentiles  and  also  the  house  of  Israel. 

Old-fashioned,  you  will  say.  Yes,  they  may  seem  so.  They  are  not 
the  empty  words  of  philosophy,  so  called,  but  they  are  the  true  words 
of  God. 

And  again : 

And  the  whole  world  lieth  in  sin,  and  groaneth  under  darkness 
and  under  the  bondage  of  sin. 

Is  that  true?  Are  we  not  under  bondage,  with  these  billions  of 
dollars  of  national  debt  over  us  like  a  dark  shadow?  The  Lord  says 
every  man  who  is  in  debt  is  in  bondage.  Do  you  not  think  that  the  word 
of  the  Lord  should  be  heeded,  and  that  we,  as  individuals,  should  get  out 
of  debt,  and  then  we  will  have  more  force  with  our  Government  ?  But  the 
world  is  in  bondage.  The  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity,  and  therefore 
the  Lord  said :   "Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation." 

Speaking  of  our  country,  I  think  the  business  men  are  largely  to 
blame  for  these  chaotic  conditions.  The  Lord  says :  "Search  out  good 
and  wise  men" — not  of  any  party;  not  of  any  church,  but  search  out 
these  good  men  and  put  them  in  charge  of  our  civil  affairs.  But  if  you 
ask  a  business  man  to  run  for  office,  he  becomes  a  Pharisee,  a  political 
Pharisee.  He  says :  "I  don't  like  to  enter  into  the  slime  of  politics."  But 
who  has  made  it  a  slime?  The  men  who  were  unworthy  to  hold  office. 
Business  men  say :  "We  can't  be  elected."  Well,  when,  in  the  name  of 
heaven,  will  you  be  any  stronger?  Why  not  enter  the  conflict?  There 
ought  to  be  common  ground  where  good  and  wise  men  may  stand,  and 
their  influence  will  be  felt  at  headquarters  in  Washington. 

"Isn't  repentance,"  as  Carlyle  says,  "of  all  acts  of  men,  the  most 
divine?"  The  reward  of  repentance  is  a  new  man,  a  new  birth.  Think 
of  the  sweet  influence  that  repentance  brings.  It  changes  the  heart.  It 
makes  us  feel  that  we  have  no  more  disposition  to  do  evil,  but  to  do  good 
continually.  Our  Heavenly  Father  entreats  us  to  be  correct  in  manner, 
proper  in  our  conduct,  and  an  example  and  a  light  unto  all  mankind.  Oh, 
the  strength,  the  beauty  there  is  in  purity  of  heart !  Emerson  said :  "My 
strength  is  as  the  strength  of  ten,  because  my  heart  is  pure." 

You  know  the  old  story  of  the  student  who  created  a  monstrous 
being  from  materials  gathered  in  the  tomb  and  the  dissecting-room.  Of 
course,  it  is  a  fable.  The  monster  acquired  life.  The  student  was  unable 
to  control  him.  This  monstrosity  strangled  the  student,  killed  his  bride 
and  others  of  his  loved  ones,  and  finally  found  an  end  in  the  North  Sea. 
By  permitting  this  intemperance  are  we  not  constructing  a  monstrous 
being  that  will  prove  to  be  our  master ;  and  this  monster  of  adultery — 
for  unchastity  is  the  dominant  evil  of  the  age.  These  great  evils  will 
strangle  our  youth  and  kill  all  that  we  cherish  most  dear,  and  yet  we 
are  responsible. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

If  we  had  done  our  full  duty  our  people  in  the  tops  of  these  moun- 
tains would  not  be  afflicted  with  these  beer  stands  and  liquor  stores. 
We  had  the  power — we  have  the  power  now  to  prevent  it.  Should  we 
not,  in  the  majesty  and  strength  of  a  free  people,  rise  up  and  crush  this 
destroyer,  before  it  crushes  us  ? 

WARNING  TO  AMERICA 

About  our  nation  Moroni  said — and  his  word  is  greater  than  all  the 
statesmen  of  ancient  or  modern  times — he  is  speaking  of  the  United 
States  of  America : 

And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the 
decrees  of  God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  in- 
iquities until  the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness 
of  the  wrath  of  God  upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have 
hitherto  done. 

Then  Webster,  the  great  expounder  of  the  Constitution,  catches  the 
inspiration  of  the  Nephite  prophet,  and  in  his  matchless  eloquence  he 
adds  to  this  warning : 

But  if  we  and  our  posterity  reject  religious  instruction  and  au- 
thority, violate  the  rules  of  eternal  justice,  trifle  with  the  injunctions 
of  morality,  and  recklessly  destroy  the  political  Constitution  which 
holds  us  together,  no  man  can  tell  how  sudden  a  catastrophe  may 
overwhelm  us,  that  shall  bury  all  our  glory  in  profound  obscurity. 
Should  that  catastrophe  happen,  let  it  have  no  history!  Let  the  hor- 
rible narrative  never  be  written!  Let  its  fate  be  like  that  of  the  lost 
books  of  Livy,  which  no  human  eye  shall  ever  read;  or  the  missing 
Pleiad,  of  which  no  man  can  ever  know  more  than  that  it  is  lost,  and 
lost  forever. 

FAITH  EXPRESSED  IN  THE  FUTURE 

If  America  falls,  we  will  be  the  ones  who  have  robbed  ourselves 
of  our  glorious  heritage,  but  I  am  not  afraid  that  this  republic  will  fall. 
I  believe  the  Constitution  is  going  to  endure  until  the  King  of  Kings 
comes  in  glory.  He  shall  reign  over  the  earth,  from  the  rivers  to  the 
ends  of  the  earth.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is  filled  with  divine  prophecies, 
and  divine  promises  to  this  American  nation.  Speaking  of  it  the  Lord 
says : 

And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and 
there  shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the 
Gentiles. 

And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations.  ^ 
For  he  that  raiseth  up  a  king  against  me  shall  perish,  for  I,  the 
Lord,  the  king  of  heaven,  will  be  their  king,  and  I  will  be  a  light  unto 
them  forever,  that  hear  my  words.    (II  Nephi  10:11,  12,  14.) 

I  am  not  afraid  of  any  dictator  coming  over  and  conquering  us.  I 
cherish,  in  the  fondest  and  deepest  faith,  the  belief  that  the  Star  Spangled 
Banner  shall  reign  over  this  land,  and  that  no  alien  flag  shall  ever  be 
permitted  to  be  the  "abomination  and  desolation"  in  free  America.  But 
all  that  depends  upon  the  people  serving  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  God  of 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


85 


the  land.  If  we  serve  Him — and  here  is  our  glorious  opportunity — He 
will  fortify  us  against  all  nations,  and  though  the  world  combine  in 
arms  and  attempt  to  invade  us,  every  true  American  will  meet  them  in 
battle  array  and  send  them  back  in  the  confusion  of  retreat,  for  when 
God  is  with  us,  who  can  be  against  us  ? 

And  the  Star  Spangled  Banner  in  triumph  shall  wave 
O'er  the  land  of  the  free,  and  the  home  of  the  brave, 

if  we  remember  God  and  seek  Him  while  He  may  be  found.  This  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "My  Redeemer  Lives" — B.  Cecil  Gates. 
Richard  P.  Condie,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

You  will  agree,  I  am  sure,  that  that  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful 
musical  compositions  ever  written.   The  Choir  sang  it  impressively. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  conscious  at  this  moment  of  a  tre-  ' 
mendous  responsibility.   I  am  full  of  fear  and  apprehension,  and  I 
confess  to  you  that  when  the  call  came  to  me  to  serve  in  a  high  position 
in  this  Church  I  was  full  of  doubts  and  misgivings.  Yet  I  pledge  to 
you  my  best  efforts,  with  the  help  of  God. 

RECOLLECTIONS  OF  PAST  TEACHINGS 

When  President  Grant  spoke  yesterday  there  came  out  of  my  boy- 
hood three  stimulating  memories.  One  of  these  was  the  visit  of  President 
Wilford  Woodruff  to  Logan  when  I  was  a  boy.  I  remember  his  testi- 
mony. He  spoke  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  as  one  of  his  associates, 
and  he  told  us  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  mighty  man,  full  of  faith,  full 
of  courage,  and  full  of  integrity,  but  he  said  when  Joseph  Smith  assumed 
his  responsibility  as  a  leader  of  the  people,  he  was  meek  and  humble  as  a 
child.  I  shall  never  forget  the  fervent  testimony  of  President  Woodruff. 

The  second  memory  that  came  to  me  was  President  Heber  J.  Grant's 
visit  to  Logan,  also  when  I  was  a  boy.  I  remember  his  sermon  on  temper- 
ance and  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  shall  never  forget  what  he  said  on 
that  occasion. 

The  third  memory  is  a  recollection  of  seeing  and  hearing  that  vener- 
able, scholarly  and  cultured  leader,  President  Lorenzo  Snow.  He  spoke 
of  the  law  of  the  tithe,  and  urged  the  people  to  honor  that  great  law, 
and  he  said  if  they  would  do  so  the  Lord  would  lift  them  out  of  their 
economic  distress.  There  are  many  people  living  in  the  Church  who  can 
remember  the  admonition  of  this  great  leader. 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

QUOTATION  FROM  "RAYS  OF  LIVING  LIGHT" 

Thirty  odd  years  ago  I  was  a  missionary  over  in  England.  I  remem- 
ber distributing  a  tract  written  by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose.  That 
tract  was  called  "Rays  of  Living  Light."  To  me  it  has  always  been 
a  masterpiece,  for  Brother  Penrose  explained  the  Gospel  magnificently 
in  that  little  booklet.  I  have  frequently  pondered  the  last  paragraph  in 
this  Gospel  tract,  and  I  am  taking  the  liberty  of  reading  it  to  you  this 
afternoon,  in  view  of  the  many  things  which  we  have  heard  concerning 
the  trouble  and  gloom  of  these  last  days. 

Said  President  Penrose: 

"This  is  a  day  of  warning.  It  will  be  followed  by  a  time  of  judg- 
ments. The  Lord  is  about  to  shake  terribly  the  kingdoms  of  this  world. 
War,  pestilence,  famine,  earthquake,  whirlwind,  and  the  devouring  fire, 
with  signs  in  the  heavens  and  on  the  earth,  will  immediately  precede  the 
great  consummation  which  is  close  at  hand.  These  are  the  last  days. 
All  that  has  been  foretold  by  the  holy  prophets  concerning  them  is  about 
to  be  literally  fulfilled.  The  everlasting  Gospel  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  as  one  of  the  signs  of  the  latter  days.  Israel  is  being  gathered.  The 
elect  of  God  are  assembling  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth.  The  way 
is  opening  for  the  redemption  of  Judah.  Soon  all  things  will  be  in  com- 
motion: 'men's  hearts  failing  them  for  fear  and  looking  for  the  things 
that  are  coming  on  the  earth.'  The  places  of  refuge  appointed  are  in 
Zion  and  in  Jerusalem.  The  Lord,  even  Jesus  the  Messiah,  will  come 
to  His  holy  Temple.  He  will  be  glorified  in  His  Saints,  but  will  'take 
vengeance  on  them  that  know  not  God  and  obey  not  the  Gospel.'  He 
will  break  in  pieces  the  nations  as  a  potter's  vessel.  He  will  sweep  the 
earth  as  with  a  besom  of  destruction.  He  will  establish  righteousness 
upon  it  and  give  dominion  to  His  people.  'The  meek  shall  inherit  the 
earth  and  the  wicked  be  cut  off  forever.'  Therefore,  repent  and  turn 
unto  Him,  all  ye  nations,  and  obey  Him,  all  ye  people,  for  these  words 
are  true  and  faithful  and  are  given  by  His  Spirit !  Salvation  has  come 
unto  you ;  reject  it  not  lest  ye  fall  and  perish.   The  time  is  at  hand !" 

THE  EXAMPLE  OF  THE  PIONEERS 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  great  Gospel  tract  has  found  place  in 
many  homes  in  this  nation  and  in  old  England.  And  so  I  say  we  are 
living  in  the  last  days,  and  when  these  events  are  transpiring.  There 
is  confusion  in  the  world.  We  are  beset  with  difficulties,  and  sometimes 
I  think  it  is  well  for  us  to  hark  back  to  the  days  of  the  pioneers  to  get 
our  bearings  and  to  learn  the  principles  upon  which  they  succeeded. 
Those  sturdy  people  who  laid  the  foundation  of  all  we  have  and  are,  were 
men  and  women  of  faith.  They  were  obedient  to  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord.  They  knew  that  freedom  is  a  priceless  treasure.  How  could 
they  fail? 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  say  that  freedom  in  the  earth  must  be 
safeguarded,  and  it  will  be  safeguarded,  brethren  and  sisters,  because 
Jesus  Christ  was  the  great  advocate  of  equal  rights,  and  His  precepts 
will  eventually  prevail.  I  firmly  believe  that  Thomas  Jefferson  received 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


87 


his  inspiration  to  write  the  Declaration  of  Independence  from  the  Holy 
Scriptures,  and  that  he  was  familiar  with  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ  as  told 
in  the  New  Testament. 

May  God  bless  you.  May  He  bless  this  Church.  May  He  prosper 
the  cause  of  truth  in  all  the  earth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  It  is  a  great  relief  when  one's  name  is 
announced.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  once  said  that  "There  is  no 
pain  so  awful  as  that  of  suspense."  I  quoted  that  to  President  Clark 
once  and  he  answered  in  substance,  "Well,  you  ought  to  be  pretty  well 
purified  by  now,  then."  But  if  being  held  in  suspense  will  help  to  purify 
a  person  then  I  do  not  object  to  being  so  held. 

I  want  to  qualify  under  the  teachings  of  the  Apostle  John,  who — 
when  explaining  that  when  the  Lord  should  appear  "we  shall  be  like  Him ; 
for  we  shall  see  Him  as  He  is" — said,  "And  every  man  that  hath  this  hope 
in  him  purifieth  himself,  even  as  He  is  pure."  (1st  John  3  :2-3) 

A  TESTIMONY  BRINGS  RESPONSIBILITY 

I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  to  express,  for  the  confidence  of  the 
Brethren  and  the  great  mercy  and  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  me,  and  I 
appreciate  the  opportunity  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  from  this  stand 
for  I  know,  with  you,  that  God  lives;  that  Adam  fell  that  man  might 
be ;  that  Jesus  Christ  was  and  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world ;  that  by  suffering  in  a  manner  beyond  our  power  to  understand, 
He  wrought  out  the  great  atonement,  thereby  paying  for  the  sin  of  Adam 
unconditionally  and  for  the  sins  of  all  men  upon  condition  of  their 
individual  repentance ;  and  that  by  reason  thereof  all  men  shall  be  resur- 
rected and  stand  before  the  judgment  bar  of  God  to  be  judged  upon  their 
individual  records  made  during  their  life  upon  this  earth ;  that  when  all 
the  excuses,  explanations  and  protestations  are  made  and  brushed  aside, 
the  final  all-important  question  for  every  one  of  us  to  measure  ourselves 
against  will  be,  "How  nearly  did  I  in  the  living  of  my  life  upon  the 
earth  conform  to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ."  I  know, 
too,  that  a  righteous  judgment  will  be  made,  and  that  if  through  right- 
eous living  we  have  brought  ourselves  within  reach  of  the  great  plan  of 
mercy,  then  we  shall,  through  the  atoning  blood  of  the  Savior,  be  washed 
clean  and  received  into  the  mansions  of  our  Father.  We  all  know  these 
things  and  we  each  have  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  a  knowledge  that  through  him  the  Lord 
restored  the  Gospel  in  these  last  days  and  again  organized  His  Church 
upon  the  earth ;  that  the  men  who  now  stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church 
hold  the  keys  of  the  holy  Priesthood  and  that  they  have  been  chosen 
by  the  Lord  to  lead  His  people  and  are  sustained  and  upheld  by  Him  in 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

their  ministry.  It  is  the  knowledge  of  these  things  that  makes  us  brothers 
and  sisters. 

THE  TRUE  MEANING  OF  BROTHERHOOD 

There  are  many  people  who  admire  the  activities  and  accomplish- 
ments of  the  Church ;  who,  when  they  see  the  results  obtained  through, 
and  by  the  Church,  think  that  fellowship  with  such  an  organization 
would  be  desirable,  but  who  have  no  idea  of  what  binds  us  together.  Even 
among  us,  as  members  of  the  Church,  there  are  those  desiring  to  be 
known  as  members  and  willing  to  take  some  part  in  our  activities,  who 
as  yet  do  not  know  wherein  lies  the  power  which  sustains  this  people. 
Therefore,  they  do  not  care  to  be  known  as  a  peculiar  people.  They  accept 
and  fellowship  with  the  Church  so  long  as  their  standing  in  the  world  is 
not  interfered  with.  They  are  our  brothers  and  sisters,  in  fact  all  people 
are,  but  not  in  the  same  peculiar  sense  as  are  those  who  have  the  testimony 
and  knowledge  of  which  we  have  spoken. 

alma's  EXPERENCE 

Mormon  speaks  of  Alma  and  the  sons  of  Mosiah  as  still  being 
"brethren  in  the  Lord"  after  having  been  separated  for  fourteen  years. 
Let  us  recall  for  a  moment  their  experience  to  determine  what  it  was 
that  made  them  "brethren  in  the  Lord."  As  young  men,  they  "went  about 
to  destroy  the  Church  of  God"  and  "to  lead  astray  the  people  of  the 
Lord."  As  they  pursued  their  evil  course,  an  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared 
unto  them,  his  voice  shook  the  earth;  he  questioned,  and  instructed 
Alma  about  many  things.  But  the  last  words  which  Alma  heard  and 
the  most  impressive  were,  "And  now  I  say  unto  thee,  Alma,  go  thy  way, 
and  seek  to  destroy  the  Church  no  more  .  .  .  and  this  even  if  thou  wilt  of 
thyself  be  cast  off."  The  angel  spoke  other  words  which  Alma  did  not 
hear  because  he  was  overcome  with  fear.  His  soul  was  racked  with 
eternal  torment  and  he  wandered  through  much  tribulation.  Repenting 
nigh  unto  death,  he  remembered  all  his  sins  and  of  this  experience  he 
says: 

So  great  had  been  my  iniquities,  that  the  very  thought  of  coming 
into  the  presence  of  my  God  did  rack  my  soul  with  inexpressible 
horror. 

Oh,  thought  I,  that  I  could  be  banished  and  become  extinct  both 
soul  and  body,  that  I  might  not  be  brought  to  stand  in  the  presence 
of  my  God,  to  be  judged  of  my  deeds. 

And  now,  for  three  days  and  for  three  nights  was  I  racked,  even 
with  the  pains  of  a  damned  soul. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  as  I  was  thus  racked  with  torment,  while 
I  was  harrowed  up  by  the  memory  of  my  many  sins,  behold,  I  re- 
membered also  to  have  heard  my  father  prophesy  unto  the  people  con- 
cerning the  coming  of  one  Jesus  Christ,  a  Son  of  God,  to  atone  for  the 
sins  of  the  world. 

Now,  as  my  mind  caught  hold  upon  this  thought,  I  cried  within 
my  heart:  O  Jesus,  thou  Son  of  God,  have  mercy  on  me,  who  am  in 
the  gall  of  bitterness,  and  am  encircled  about  by  the  everlasting  chains 
of  death.  (Alma  36:14-18.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


89 


He  was  then  granted  f  oregiveness,  his  pain  left  and  he  was  harrowed 
up  by  the  memory  of  his  sins  no  more.  The  light  of  the  Gospel  broke  in 
upon  his  vision  and  joy  entered  his  soul.  His  statement  to  those  who 
stood  around  him  was, 

I  have  repented  of  my  sins,  and  have  been  redeemed  of  the  Lord; 
behold  I  am  born  of  the  spirit. 

And  the  Lord  said  unto  me:  Marvel  not  that  all  mankind,  yea, 
men  and  women,  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  people,  must  be 
born  again;  yea,  born  of  God,  changed  from  their  carnal  and  fallen 
state,  to  a  state  of  righteousness,  being  redeemed  of  God,  becoming 
his  sons  and  daughters; 

And  thus  they  become  new  creatures;  and  unless  they  do  this, 
they  can  in  nowise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God.  (Mosiah  27:24, 
25,  26.) 

From  the  time  of  this  experience  to  the  end  of  their  lives  Alma  and 
the  sons  of  Mosiah  not  only  refrained  from  their  former  evil  activities, 
but  never  again  could  they  remain  passive  toward  the  progress  of  the 
truth. 

Alma  near  the  close  of  his  life,  recounting  this  experience  to  his 
son  Helaman,  said, 

But  behold,  my  limbs  did  receive  their  strength  again,  and  I  stood 
upon  my  feet,  and  did  manifest  unto  the  people  that  I  had  been  born 
of  God. 

Yea,  and  from  that  time  even  until  now,  I  have  labored  without 
ceasing,  that  I  might  bring  souls  unto  repentance;  that  I  might  bring 
them  to  taste  of  the  exceeding  joy  of  which  I  did  taste;  that  they  might 
also  be  born  of  God,  and  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost.  (Alma 
36:23-24.) 

It  was  this  being  born  again,  as  explained  by  Alma,  which  made 
them  "brethren  in  the  Lord." 

The  experience  of  each  individual  who  is  really  born  again  is  similar 
to  this  experience  of  Alma  and  the  sons  of  Mosiah,  although  it  may  not 
be  so  dramatic.  The  effect  upon  each  person's  life  is  likewise  similar. 
No  person  whose  soul  is  illuminated  by  the  burning  Spirit  of  God  can  in 
this  world  of  sin  and  dense  darkness  remain  passive.  He  is  driven  by  an 
irresistible  urge  to  fit  himself  to  be  an  active  agent  of  God  in  furthering 
righteousness  and  in  freeing  the  lives  and  minds  of  men  from  the  bondage 
of  sin. 

CHANGE  WROUGHT  ON  PETER  BY  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  experience  of  Peter.  On  the  night  of  the 
Master's  trial,  he  denied  thrice  that  he  was  one  of  the  disciples  of  Jesus ; 
and  after  the  crucifixion,  he  with  other  disciples  returned  to  his  fishing. 
Then  came  the  day  of  Pentecost,  and  Peter  was  born  again.  He  never 
thereafter  denied  being  a  disciple  of  Jesus.  Henceforth,  his  whole  energy 
was  devoted  to  the  building  of  the  kingdom.  The  change  wrought  in  his 
heart  is  apparent  when  we  contrast  his  words  and  actions  on  the  night  of 
the  trial  with  his  words  and  actions  shortly  thereafter  when,  through  his 
and  John's  administration,  the  lame  man  had  been  healed  and  because 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Dag 

of  the  interest  aroused  thereby,  Peter  and  John  were  called  before  the 
Jewish  High  Priests  "and  commanded  .  .  .  not  to  speak  at  all  nor  teach 
in  the  name  of  Jesus." 

But  Peter  and  John  answered  and  said  unto  them,  Whether  it  be 
right  in  the  sight  of  God  to  hearken  unto  you  more  than  unto  God, 
judge  ye. 

For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things  which  we  have  seen  and 
heard.   (Acts  4:18-20.) 

AN  EXPRESSION  BY  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 

Parley  P.  Pratt  gives  expression  to  the  feelings  of  those  who  in  our 
time  have  really  been  born  again,  in  these  words : 

If  I  had  been  set  to  turn  the  world  over,  to  dig  down  a  mountain, 
to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  or  traverse  the  deserts  of  Arabia,  it 
would  have  been  easier  than  to  have  undertaken  to  rest,  while  the 
priesthood  was  upon  me.  I  have  received  the  holy  anointing,  and  I 
can  never  rest  till  the  last  enemy  is  conquered,  death  destroyed,  and 
truth  reigns  triumphant. 

From  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  it  is  apparent 
that  every  member  of  the  Church  should  have  something  of  this  same 
spirit,  for  he  said,  "Let  the  Saints  remember  that  great  things  depend  on 
their  individual  exertion,  and  that  they  are  called  to  be  co-workers  with 
us  and  the  Holy  Spirit  in  accomplishing  the  great  work  of  the  last  days." 

One  of  the  great  tasks  before  us  this  day  is  to  bring  the  unconverted 
within  our  ranks  to  a  testimony  and  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  For  to  every  individual,  whether  in  the 
Church  or  out  of  the  Church,  this  testimony  must  come  if  they  are  to 
become  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Lord ;  if  they  are  to  be  "born  of  God, 
changed  from  their  carnal  and  fallen  state  to  a  state  of  righteousness, 
being  redeemed  of  God,  becoming  His  sons  and  daughters." 


TRUE  CONVERSION  COMES  THROUGH  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

To  the  accomplishment  of  this  conversion  are  directed  all  the  ac- 
tivities of  the  Church.  The  great  Welfare  Program  has  within  it  the  pos- 
sibilities of  reaching  multitudes  of  men  and  women  and  of  leading  them 
to  this  rebirth.  The  spirit  of  the  Welfare  Program  is  to  bring  both  the 
receiver  and  the  giver  to  the  common  ground  on  which  the  Spirit  of  God 
can  meet  them.  For  after  all  a  testimony  is  received  and  a  rebirth  is  ex- 
perienced only  by  the  Spirit. 

Now  the  way  to  obtain  this  rebirth,  after  all  we  can  do,  is  to  call 
upon  the  Father  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Soon  after  burying  our  baby  I 
once  talked  to  a  fellow  workman  on  a  construction  job  who  had  recently 
lost  his  wife.  He  said  to  me,  in  substance,  "I  would  wade  through  the 
Great  Salt  Lake  on  my  knees  if  I  could  have  the  assurance  of  meeting  my 
wife  again."  That  is  not  the  way  to  obtain  a  witness  from  the  Lord. 
Moroni  gave  the  key  when  he  said  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that 
ye  would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these 


/ 


■ 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  91 


things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real 
intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto 
you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of 
all  things.    (Moroni  10:4,  S.) 

Alma's  experience  also  points  the  way.  Listen  to  him  again : 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  as  I  was  racked  with  torment,  while  I 
was  harrowed  up  by  the  memory  of  my  many  sins,  behold,  I  remem- 
bered also  to  have  heard  my  father  prophesy  unto  the  people  concern- 
ing the  coming  of  one  Jesus  Christ,  a  Son  of  God,  to  atone  for  the  sins 
of  the  world. 

Now,  as  my  mind  caught  hold  upon  this  thought,  I  cried  within 
my  heart:  O  Jesus,  thou  Son  of  God,  have  mercy  on  me,  who  am  in 
the  gall  of  bitterness,  and  am  encircled  about  by  the  everlasting  chains 
of  death.    (Alma  36:17,  18.) 

The  course  Alma  took,  that  is,  to  cry  unto  the  Lord  in  sincere  repen- 
tence — is  the  way  for  all  men.  And  until  this  course  is  followed  by  men 
and  nations,  no  rebirth  will  come  to  men,  nor  relief  to  nations. 

STEADFASTNESS  BRINGS  GROWTH  AND  POWER 

Not  only  must  we  all  have  the  experience  which  first  makes  us 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Lord,  but  having  obtained  this  we  must 
continue  day  by  day  through  the  years  to  maintain,  and  build  upon  it, 
as  did  Alma  and  the  sons  of  Mosiah.  They  did  it  by  studying  the  scrip- 
tures and  by  prayer  and  fasting.   Of  them  it  is  written : 

Now  these  sons  of  Mosiah  were  with  Alma  at  the  time  the  angel 
first  appeared  unto  him;  therefore  Alma  did  rejoice  exceedingly  to 
see  his  brethren;  and  what  added  more  to  his  joy,  they  were  still  his 
brethren  in  the  Lord;  yea,  and  they  had  waxed  strong  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth;  for  they  were  men  of  a  sound  understanding  and 
they  had  searched  the  scriptures  diligently,  that  they  might  know  the 
word  of  God. 

But  this  is  not  all;  They  had  given  themselves  to  much  prayer, 
and  fasting;  therefore  they  had  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  the  spirit 
of  revelation,  and  when  they  taught,  they  taught  with  power  and  au- 
thority of  God.   (Alma  17:2,  3) 

God  help  all  honest  men  to  be  born  again  and  come  to  be  of  sound 
understanding  and  to  know  the  word  of  -  God  and  maintain  the  spirit 
thereof  by  study,  fasting,  prayer,  and  work,  that  we  may  be  blessed  with 
His  power  and  authority,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  seek  your  faith  and  prayers  as  I 
stand  here  to  speak  to  you,  for  I  desire  to  say  nothing  but  that  which 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  would  lead  me  to  say.  I  have  no  set  theme. 

The  theme  of  this  Conference  seems  to  be  obedience.    I  know  of 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  •  Second  Dag 

nothing  that  is  of  greater  importance  to  members  of  the  Church,  and  if 
I  may  be  so  led  I  would  like  to  add  a  few  words  in  regard  to  this  im- 
portant topic. 

THOSE  WHO  MAY  BE  BAPTIZED 

A  few  months  ago,  when  I  was  in  one  of  the  mission  fields,  meeting 
with  a  group  of  missionaries,  one  of  them  asked  me  this  question : 

Shall  we  baptize  men  into  this  Church  when  they  say  they  believe 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  they  believe  that  the 
Lord  appeared  to  him,  and  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  indeed  the  Church  of  Christ  upon  the  earth,  and  yet 
they  have  not  forsaken  all  of  their  sins? 

He  stated  that  this  question  had  been  discussed  among  the  Elders. 
Some  took  one  view,  some  another.  Some  held  that  if  we  accepted  a 
man  who  so  expressed  himself,  that  eventually  he  would  repent  of  all  his 
sins.  I  said  in  answer  to  him :  "I  shall  read  to  you  what  the  Lord  Himself 
has  said,  and  we  will  see  if  that  will  not  answer  your  question."  I  am 
going  to  read  those  words  here  this  afternoon  : 

And  again,  by  way  of  commandment  to  the  Church  concerning 
the  manner  of  baptism. — All  those  who  humble  themselves  before  God, 
and  desire  to  be  baptized,  and  come  forth  with  broken  hearts  and 
contrite  spirits,  and  witness  before  the  Church  that  they  have  truly 
repented  of  all  their  sins,  and  are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  having  a  determination  to  serve  Him  to  the  end,  and 
truly  manifest  by  their  works  that  they  have  received  of  the  Spirit 
of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of  their  sins,  shall  be  received  by  baptism 
into  His  Church. 

Then  I  asked  if  that  did  not  answer  the  question.  The  missionaries 
concluded  that  it  did.  But  yet  this  question  arose :  We  keep  the  man 
out  who  has  not  forsaken  all  his  sins  and  yet  confesses  that  this  is  the 
Church  of  Christ ;  but  think  of  the  great  many  who  are  in  the  Church, 
the  great  number  who  violate  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  yet 
we  do  nothing  about  it. 

CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP  WILL  NOT  ESCAPE  JUDGMENT 

I  answered:  "True,  unless  it  is  a  grievous  sin  we  do  not  excom- 
municate people  from  the  Church.  We  try  to  teach  them  their  duty. 
We  try  to  bring  them  to  repentance.  We  try  to  make  them  understand 
the  truth.  But  after  they  are  in  the  Church,  if  they  will  not  do  these 
things  and  will  not  hearken  to  our  counsels,  you  may  be  assured  that 
they  are  going  to  be  judged  according  to  their  works." 

The  fact  that  they  are  members  of  the  Church  will  not  save  them. 
Every  man  and  every  woman  will  have  to  answer  for  the  deeds  done  in 
the  body. 

Then  again  an  ancient  prophet  said : 

Wo  unto  him  that  has  the  law  given,  yea,  that  has  all  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  like  unto  us,  and  that  transgresseth  them,  and  that 
wasteth  the  days  of  his  probation,  for  awful  is  his  state. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  93 


Now,  when  people  come  into  this  Church  they  should,  by  all  means, 
subscribe  to  the  regulations  which  the  Lord  Himself  has  laid  down  by 
commandment.  But  does  that  mean  that  after  we  are  in  the  Church,  after 
we  have  confessed  our  sins  and  have  forsaken  them,  that  we  can  return 
to  them  after  membership  has  been  secured?  That  would  not  be  con- 
sistent. Woe  unto  all  those  who  are  disobedient  after  they  have  made 
the  preparation  which  is  expressed  in  this  commandment  which  I  have 
read  to  you — woe  unto  them.  Mark  you,  the  Lord  says  before  a  man 
comes  into  the  Church  he  must  have  a  desire ;  he  must  come  with  a  broken 
heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

What  is  a  broken  heart?  One  that  is  humble,  one  that  is  touched 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  which  is  willing  to  abide  in  all  the  cove- 
nants and  the  obligations  which  the  Gospel  entails. 

BAPTISM  A  COVENANT  TO  CONTINUE  FAITHFUL 

Further  we  read  that  he  must  forsake  all  of  his  sins.  Does  that 
mean  merely  until  he  gets  into  the  Church,  and  then  he  may  return  to 
them  again  ?  I  call  your  attention  to  the  words  of  Paul,  speaking  himself 
in  regard  to  baptism  and  membership,  and  rather  rebuking  some  of  the 
members  of  the  church  when  he  said : 

How  shall  we,  that  are  dead  to  sin,  live  any  longer  therein? 

Every  baptized  person  who  has  fully  repented,  who  comes  into  the 
Church  with  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  has  made  a  covenant 
to  continue  with  that  broken  heart,  with  that  contrite  spirit,  which  means 
a  repentant  spirit.   He  makes  a  covenant  that  he  will  do  that. 

Then  again  we  read  here,  in  this  admonition  and  commandment,  that 
he  is  to  endure  to  the  end.  It  is  essential  that  we  endure  to  the  end.  In 
the  revelation  that  was  given  to  the  Church,  this  same  revelation,  at  the 
time  the  Church  was  organized,  the  Lord  said  this : 

And  we  know  that  all  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  worship  the  Father  in  His  name,  and  endure  in 
faith  on  His  name  to  the  end,  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

Now,  I  believe  the  Lord  meant  what  He  said.  I  think  this  is  true. 
Baptism  is  not  merely  a  door  into  the  kingdom,  which  entitles  us  to 
enter,  bringing  with  us  a  trail  of  sins  unrepented  of.  It  is  not  that  at  all. 
We  must  not  enter  that  door  until  our  hearts  are  humble,  our  spirits 
contrite,  and  we  give  the  assurance  that  we  will  serve,  the  Lord  in  faith- 
fulness and  righteousness  to  the  end. 

Again : 

And  we  know  that  justification  through  the  grace  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  just  and  true; 

That  is,  if  we  come  into  this  Church  with  a  broken  heart  and  a 
contrite  spirit,  with  a  determination  to  forsake  all  our  sins  and  live  faith- 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

fully  to  the  end,  then  we  are  justified,  and  the  sanctification  of  the  blood 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  efficacious,  and  we  receive  the  blessings. 

We  know  also  that  sanctification  through  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  just  and  true,  to  all  those  who  love  and 
serve  God  with  all  their  mights,  minds,  and  strength. 

Again  here  we  are  involved:  it  is  our  duty,  as  members  of  the 
Church,  to  serve  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  mights,  with  all  our 
minds,  with  all  our  strength,  and  as  it  is  stated  in  another  revelation, 
with  all  our  hearts.  That  is  our  duty, — not  to  serve  Him  half-heartedly, 
not  to  accept  a  portion  of  the  commandments  only,  not  to  receive  only 
those  things  which  appeal  to  us,  and  refuse  to  accept  those  principles 
which  do  not  appeal  to  us.  We  should  be  converted  in  full  to  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

"take  heed  and  pray  always" 

But  there  is  a  possibility  that  man  may  fall  from  grace  and  depart 
from  the  living  God; 

Therefore  let  the  Church  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest  they 
fall  into  temptation — 

Not  only  the  Church  collectively,  but  you  and  me ;  let  us  take  heed. 

Never  in  the  history  of  the  world,  that  is,  in  the  history  of  the 
Church,  have  there  been  so  many  temptations,  so  many  pitfalls,  so  many 
dangers,  to  lure  away  the  members  of  the  Church  from  the  path  of  duty 
and  from  righteousness,  as  we  find  today.  Every  day  of  our  lives  we 
come  in  contact  with  these  temptations,  these  dangers.  We  should 
continue  in  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  faith,  remembering  that  there  is  this 
possibility  that  we  may  turn  from  the  grace  of  the  living  God,  and  fall, 
unless  we  continue  in  that  humility,  in  the  exercise  of  faith  and  obedience 
to  every  principle  of  truth. 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  SHOULD  BE  REVERED 

In  another  of  these  revelations  the  Lord  says- — I  think  I  will  read  it, 
instead  of  attempting  to  quote  it : 

And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  commandment  to  beware  concerning 
yourselves,  to  give  diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

For  you  shall  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the 
mouth  of  God. 

For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  truth,  and  whatsoever  is  truth  is 
light,  and  whatsoever  is  light  is  Spirit,  even  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ. 

And  the  Spirit  giveth  light  to  every  man  that  cometh  into  the 
world;  and  the  Spirit  enlighteneth  every' man  through  the  world,  that 
hearkeneth  to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit. 

So  we  are  commanded  here  to  give  heed  concerning  ourselves,  each 
of  us  individually,  as  to  the  words  of  eternal  life,  how  we  hold  them.  We 
should  hold  them  sacred.  It  is  just  as  much  my  obligation,  and  yours, 
after  baptism,  to  be  humble,  to  have  that  contrite  spirit,  that  broken  heart, 
and  the  desire  to  forsake  all  sin,  as  it  was  before  we  came  into  this 
Church  through  the  waters  of  baptism. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


95 


MORTALITY,  THE  FOUNDATION  FOR  PERFECTION 

I  often  think,  and  I  suppose  you  do,  too,  of  that  great  and  wonderful 
discourse — the  greatest  that  was  ever  preached,  so  far  as  we  know — 
which  we  call  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  in  which  instructions  of  various 
kinds  were  given  by  our  Lord  for  the  benefit  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  all  ages,  by  which,  if  we  will  only  hearken  to  those  teachings, 
we  may  come  back  again  into  the  presence  of  God,  the  Father,  and  His 
Son  Jesus  Christ. 

I  often  think  of  that  which  is  really  a  summation : 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven 
is  perfect. 

I  have  heard  many  discourses  upon  that  with  which  I  could  not 
agree,  not  fully,  because  I  believe  the  Lord  meant  just  what  He  said, 
that  we  should  be  perfect,  as  our  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect.  That  will 
not  come  all  at  once,  but  line  upon  line  and  precept  upon  precept,  example 
upon  example,  and  even  then  not  as  long  as  we  live  in  this  mortal  life, 
for  we  will  have  to  go  even  beyond  the  grave  before  we  reach  that 
perfection  and  shall  be  like  God. 

But  here  we  lay  the  foundation.  Here  is  where  we  are  taught  these 
simple  truths  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  this  probationary  state,  to 
prepare  us  for  that  perfection.  It  is  my  duty,  it  is  yours,  to  be  better  today 
than  I  was  yesterday,  and  for  you  to  be  better  today  than  you  were  yester- 
day, and  better  tomorrow  than  you  were  today.  Why?  Because  we  are 
on  that  road,  if  we  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  we  are 
on  that  road  to  perfection,  and  that  can  only  come  through  obedience 
and  the  desire  in  our  hearts  to  overcome  the  world.  That  is  all. 

WEAKNESSES  CONQUERED  THROUGH  CONCENTRATED  EFFORT 

There  should  be  no  sin  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  No  man  should  attempt  to  excuse  himself  because  he  has  this 
failing  or  that.  If  we  have  a  failing,  if  we  have  a  weakness,  there  is 
where  we  should  concentrate,  with  a  desire  to  overcome,  until  we  master 
and  conquer.  If  a  man  feels  that  it  is  hard  for  him  to  pay  his  tithing, 
then  that  is  the  thing  he  should  do,  until  he  learns  to  pay  his  tithing.  If 
it  is  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  is  what  he  should  do,  until  he  learns  to 
love  that  commandment. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  the  members  of  the  Church,  and 
protect  us  from  evil.  We  know  that  the  world  is  full  of  evil.  It  is  a 
wicked  world.  The  Lord  has  said  that.  We  have  come  out  of  it.  We 
don't  belong  to  it,  although  we  are  in  it.  If  we  are  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  we  have  no  right  and  we  should  have  no  desire  to 
partake  of  those  things  which  belong  to  the  world,  which  are  contrary  to 
the  kingdom  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  guide  us  in  righteousness,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

The  Choir  sang  "How  Lovely  Are  The  Messengers" — Mendelssohn. 
Elder  James  Brown,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  October  5,  at  10  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  October  S,  at  10  o'clock. 

Every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  was  occupied  far  in  advance  of  the  time  to  commence  this 
session  of  the  Conference.  In  addition,  the  large  Assembly  Hall  immedi- 
ately south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  with  people,  amplifying  equip- 
ment having  been  installed  so  that  those  who  could  not  be  accommodated 
in  the  Tabernacle  could  listen  to  the  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast 
by  radio. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  meeting. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting.   Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Due  to  the  inclemency  of  the  weather  President  Grant  has  con- 
sidered it  advisable  not  to  come  down  to  the  session  this  morning,  but  in 
all  probability  he  will  be  with  us  this  afternoon. 

There  are  on  the  stand  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  six  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  all  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  Tabernacle  is  crowded  to  capacity,  people  standing  in  the  aisles, 
the  galleries,  and  the  doorways,  and  we  are  informed  that  the  Assembly 
Hall  is  also  filled  with  an  overflow  meeting. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "For  the  Strength  of 
the  Hills" — Evan  Stephens. 

Elder  Hervin  Bunderson,  President  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  here  today.  A  few  weeks  ago  as  I  lay  on  a 
hospital  bed,  not  knowing  just  when  I  would  get  out,  I  was  looking 
forward  to  the  opportunity  I  might  have  of  meeting  with  you  brethren 
and  sisters  again.    I  would  like  to  take  this  occasion  to  thank  those  who 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  97 


\ 


sent  flowers  and  messages  of  encouragement  to  me.  I  have  no  other  way 
of  reaching  many  of  you,  but  with  all  my  heart  I  thank  you  for  your 
kindness. 

ENCOURAGEMENT  FOR  WOMEN  TO  JOIN  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

This  Conference  is  usually  preceded  by  the  Conference  of  our 
National  Woman's  Relief  Society,  an  organization  of  which  I  am  proud 
and  for  which  I  am  grateful.  They  set  us  a  fine  example  in  attendance 
and  program.  I  wonder  at  times  if  some  of  the  women  of  the  Church 
really  appreciate  that  wonderful  organization,  the  first  society  for  women 
in  all  the  world  that  has  persisted.  I  suggest  today  that  you  men  encourage 
your  wives  and  daughters  to  become  members.  It  is  the  department 
in  the  Church  that  the  Lord  particularly  provided  for  women.  I  think 
it  would  be  fine  to  surprise  the  Relief  Society  by  helping  to  increase 
their  membership  to  100,000,  yes,  and  make  it  200,000  while  we  are  at 
it.  I  am  sure  it  would  prove  a  real  blessing  for  all  wives  to  attend  the 
Relief  Society  meetings  in  the  Wards  and  Branches  in  which  they  live. 

THE  AARONIC  PRIESTHOOD  DEMONSTRATION 

The  other  night  I  saw  here  on  the  platform  a  group  of  your  boys  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  I  think  that  was  a  marvelous  demonstration 
and  I  wonder  if  anybody  ever  heard  any  finer  singing  than  they  treated 
us  to.  It  was  lovely.  I  feel  to  commend  the  Presiding  Bishopric  for 
the  splendid  work  that  they  are  doing  in  supervising  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. Let  us  all  give  them  a  hand  in  the  Wards  and  Stakes  in  which 
we  live. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  ABSORBS  ALL  TRUTH 

Last  night  this  house  was  filled  with  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood. 
They  were  standing  all  around  the  gallery  and  seated  in  the  aisles.  I 
might  mention  other  groups  that  are  all  intended  to  develop  character. 
Is  it  not  wonderful  to  belong  to  a  Church  that  absorbs  everything  that 
is  praiseworthy?  Every  good  thing  is  a  part  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  This  is  His  Church.  He  directed  its  organization ;  He  gave  it 
His  name.  Sometimes  we  carelessly  refer  to  it  as  our  Church  but  it  is 
not  ours.  I  feel  grateful  that  I  have  the  privilege  of  having  my  name 
enrolled  on  the  records  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

As  we  go  to  and  fro  in  the  world  other  church  leaders  think  that 
we  are  trying  to  take  their  membership  away  from  them  to  add  to  our 
numbers.  That  is  not  what  we  are  trying  to  do.  We  are  trying  to  add 
something  to  what  they  already  have.  They  do  not  have  anything  that 
is  important  for  exaltation  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  that  is  not  a  part  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  All  the  churches  together  do  not  have  any 
more  virtues  or  laws  and  regulations  set  up  by  the  Lord  than  has  this 
one  little  Church.  All  that  they  have  that  is  desirable  we  have,  and  in 
addition,  Divine  Authority.  We  are  a  small  organization,  but  we,  if  we 
do  our  duty,  will  be  the  leaven  that  will  leaven  the  lump. 


\ 


e>8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

We  have  had  wonderful  weather  up  to  this  morning,  and  now  we 
are  reminded  of  the  fact  that  while  we  are  here  in  comfort,  across  the 
seas,  perhaps  at  this  very  hour,  millions  of  men  are  facing  one  another 
upon  the  battlefield  destroying  each  other  and  in  many  cities  lives  are  be- 
ing wiped  out  by  the  thousands.  Why  ?  Because  they  have  failed  to  adopt 
the  Christian  teachings  that  were  given  by  our  Lord.  That  is  why. 
There  could  not  be  any  war  if  the  so-called  Christian  nations  really 
lived  according  to  the  teachings  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  gave  to  them. 
Surely  we  ought  to  be  grateful  this  morning  that  we  have  been  permitted 
to  receive  the  Gospel  and  partake  of  the  blessings  that  result  from 
honoring  it. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  there  are  some  here  who  were  blinded  and  had 
difficulty  to  understand  the  Gospel,  but  when  the  light  came  how  beautiful 
it  must  have  been.  How  satisfying  to  understand  that  everything  that 
is  desirable  in  all  the  world  may  be  enjoyed  by  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

OUR  MISSIONARIES  AND  SOLDIERS  NEED  ENCOURAGEMENT 

I  am  thinking  this  morning  of  our  representatives  in  the  missionary 
field,  scattered  throughout  the  different  sections  of  this  country  and  in 
some  foreign  lands.  Pray  for  them,  brethren  and  sisters.  They  need 
the  help  of  the  Lord  and  they  need  our  faith  and  prayers.  Write  to  them 
and  encourage  them,  that  when  they  get  a  letter  from  home  they  will 
know  that  they  are  remembered  all  the  time. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  our  men  who  have  gone  into  the  army 
of  the  United  States.  They  need  our  encouragement  and  I  hope  that 
those  of  us  who  know  any  of  these  men  will  find  time  occasionally  to  send 
them  a  few  lines  and  inspire  in  them  a  determination  to  live  up  to  the 
ideals  of  their  forebears  and  of  the  Church  that  they  represent,  because 
these  men  who  have  gone  out  from  Zion  do  represent  the  Church. 

THE  TABERNACLE  CHOIR  RECEIVES  PRAISE 

This  morning  we  have  enjoyed  this  marvelous  Tabernacle  Choir. 
Do  you  realize  what  it  is  doing?  I  wonder  if  you  know  how  many 
people  appreciate  the  members  of  the  Choir.  These  singers  interest  them 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  a  way  that  none  of  the  rest  of  us  can 
because  they  have  the  facility  of  the  great  organ  and  the  combination  of 
their  tuneful  voices  inspired  with  a  desire  to  bless  mankind. 

Some  time  ago  I  received  a  request  from  a  fine  Catholic  man  in 
Northern  California  who  was  injured  in  the  World  War.  He  said,  "I 
wish  you  would  have  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sing  something  for  me  on 
a  certain  Sunday."  He  explained  that  he  had  to  go  on  the  operating 
table  the  next  day  to  have  his  leg  taken  off  and  wanted  to  have  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  sing  for  him.  He  mentioned  the  song  he  desired  to 
have  sung.  I  telephoned  to  the  Choir  leader  and  asked  if  it  were  possible. 
He  said,  "No,  the  program  is  already  prepared,  but  say  to  that  good 
man  that  if  he  will  listen  in  we  will  sing  something  that  will  be  pleasing 
to  him." 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


99 


I  wrote  him  that  they  were  going  to  sing  and  that  it  would  be  some- 
thing he  would  enjoy.  He  asked  the  hospital  attendant  if  he  could  have 
the  privilege  of  bringing  a  radio  into  his  room,  but  was  told  that  radios 
were  not  allowed  in  that  hospital.  He  was  greatly  disappointed.  Then 
he  sent  for  the  Superintendent  and  finally  convinced  him  that  he  was 
entitled  to  a  radio.  He  told  him  he  was  going  to  lose  his  leg,  that  he 
was  an  ex-soldier  in  a  government  hospital  and  that  the  radio  would 
not  bother  anybody  else.  And  so  he  gained  permission  to  have  the  radio 
in  his  room.  Then  he  sent  for  his  folks  who  lived  sixty  or  seventy  miles 
north.  They  came  down  and  sat  around  his  bed  and  enjoyed  the  music. 
When  this  great  choir  was  singing  he  listened  with  genuine  satisfaction, 
the  result  of  which  was  that  the  next  morning  when  the  doctor  examined 
him,  he  said:  "There  is  no  necessity  of  taking  you  into  the  operating 
room,  man,  your  leg  is  getting  all  right.   We  will  not  take  it  off." 

In  a  few  days  my  friend  wrote  to  me  and  said :  "I  wonder  if  other 
people  would  think  what  I  think,"  inferring  that  he  had  been  healed  by 
hearing  the  hymns  of  praise  that  the  Lord  loves  to  hear. 

I  want  to  say  to  this  Tabernacle  Choir  that  is  only  one  of  the  many 
blessings  that  we  could  trace  to  them  if  we  had  time,  for  others  have 
come  to  my  attention. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  THE  COMMANDMENTS  BRINGS  BLESSINGS 

How  blessed  we  are  in  this  Church !  We  have  these  lovely  flowers 
on  the  stand  and  can  enjoy  the  comfort  of  this  building  while  it  is 
snowing  outside.  Here  we  are  fed  the  bread  of  life  and  are  promised 
every  blessing  we  can  desire  if  we  will  be  faithful,  but  we  will  only  receive 
these  blessings  and  enjoy  them  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  He  has  told  us  in  great  plainness  that  the  world  will  be 
in  distress,  that  there  will  be  warfare  from  one  end  of  the  world  to  the 
other,  that  the  wicked  shall  slay  the  wicked  and  that  peace  shall  be  taken 
from  the  earth.  And  He  has  said,  too,  that  the  only  place  where  there 
will  be  safety  will  be  in  Zion.  Will  we  make  this  Zion?  Will  we 
keep  it  to  be  Zion,  because  Zion  means  the  pure  in  heart  ? 

When  I  look  into  the  faces  of  you  good  people  here,  when  I  mingle 
with  you  in  your  homes,  in  the  Wards  and  Stakes  of  the  Church,  I 
wonder  if  we  really  appreciate  the  opportunities  that  are  ours  to  set  an 
example  to  the  world,  that  they  too  may  desire  to  know  what  the  Lord  has 
given  to  us.  Then,  as  I  see  some  of  the  brethren  and  sisters  a  little 
careless  in  their  attitude  towards  their  blessings  I  wonder  if  they  realize 
that  these  blessings  may  be  lost. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  only  be  a  benefit  and  blessing  to 
us  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  We  cannot  live  like  the 
world  and  hope  to  have  the  favor  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  must 
live  as  the  Lord  indicates  that  we  should  live.  It  is  true  that  He  has 
said  that  if  we  will  keep  His  commandments,  if  we  will  be  worthy  of  His 
blessings  He  will  exalt  us;  and  when  the  final  test  comes  when  Satan 
and  his  cohorts  will  be  trying  in  every  way  to  destroy  the  world,  the 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

Lord  says,  "I  will  come  down  from  heaven  for  the  preservation  of  my 
people." 

Are  we  going  to  be  worthy  of  that  preservation?  Because  only 
those  who  are  worthy  will  be  preserved.  And  after  all  He  has  given  to 
us — and  He  has  bestowed  upon  us  everything  that  He  has  given  anybody 
that  ever  lived  in  the  world  that  is  worthwhile — He  has  said  that  unless 
we  keep  His  commandments  we  will-  forfeit  our  blessings  and  the 
calamities  that  are  already  abroad  in  the  earth  and  are  spreading  day 
by  day  will  find  us. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  such  in- 
formation, to  know  that  God  is  interested  in  us  and  to  know  He  has 
provided  a  way  for  our  safety  not  only  here  but  for  our  eternal  exaltation 
as  well.  How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  that  we  are  considered  worthy  to 
have  our  names  upon  the  records  of  His  Church  as  members  in  good 
standing.  How  embarrassed  we  will  be,  when  we  check  on  ourselves, 
if  we  find  that  our  names  are  not  there  and  that  we  are  not  entitled  to 
the  blessings  of  eternal  life  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  very  plainly  that  all  our  blessings  are  predicated 
upon  obedience  to  His  laws  and  His  laws  are  so  plain.  Faith,  repentance, 
baptism,  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  the 
first  principles.  Then  He  offers  other  things,  including  Temple  work, 
salvation  for  the  dead  and  missionary  work  in  all  the  world.  In  our 
great  universities  we  have  marvelous  training,  but  I  want  to  say  that 
without  the  training  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  those  who  graduate 
from  the  great  universities  of  the  world  will  be  disappointed  that  they 
have  not  earned  a  place  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom. 

A  GOOD  EXAMPLE  IS  EXPECTED  OF  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

This  is  the  Lord's  Church.  This  is  His  world.  He  has  prepared  it 
for  us  and  given  us  the  opportunity  to  dwell  here  under  the  most  favor- 
able circumstances  of  any  people  that  has  ever  lived  upon  the  earth.  Are 
we  grateful  for  it?  Do  we  manifest  by  our  conduct  day  by  day,  in  our 
association  with  our  fellows,  that  we  do  appreciate  it  ? 

The  Lord  has  said,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least 
of  these,  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me."  Are  we  thinking 
of  that?  Do  you  realize  that  every  soul  in  the  world  is  precious  to 
Him,  and  that  we  have  the  key  that  may  be  turned  to  open  the  door 
of  life  and  salvation  to  millions  of  God's  children  who  do  not  understand  ? 
Are  we  appreciative  of  it  ?  If  we  are,  then  let  us  put  our  own  homes  in  or- 
der. Husbands  and  wives  should  live  together  in  peace  and  happiness.  The 
man  who  should  be  dearest  of  all  in  the  world  to  the  wife  is  her  husband, 
and  the  woman  who  should  be  most  precious  in  all  the  world  to  the 
husband  is  his  wife,  and  not  anything  but  death  should  separate  them. 

Let  us  be  examples  of  righteousness  to  our  children,  have  our  family 
prayers  and  ask  the  blessing  upon  the  food.  Let  our  children  see.  that 
as  husbands  and  wives  we  are  affectionate  with  one  another.  While 
there  is  yet  time  take  the  opportunity  as  husbands  and  wives  to  bless 
each  other  with  your  love,  with  your  kindness  and  your  helpfulness  in 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


101 


every  way.  Take  opportunity  while  there  is  yet  time  to  teach  your 
sons  and  daughters  how  to  live  to  be  happy.  The  Lord  has  said  that  it 
is  our  duty  to  do  so  and  if  we  fail  to  teach  them  the  Gospel — faith, 
repentance,  baptism  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  when  eight  years  of  age — the  sin  be  upon  our  heads.  Let  us 
not  be  found  sinful  in  that  regard.  Let  our  homes  be  sanctuaries  of 
peace  and  hope  and  love.  Wherever  we  go  let  us  radiate  sunshine  that 
will  attract  others  and  will  make  them  desire  to  know  what  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  really  is. 

As  I  stand  here  this  morning  and  realize  the  blessings  that  have 
come  to  me  through  the  faith  and  devotion  of  my  forebears,  my  father, 
my  grandfathers,  my  greatgrandfathers  and  their  wives,  all  members 
of  the  Church,  is  it  any  wonder  that  I  have  pride  in  my  ancestors?  Oh, 
how  proud  we  are  to  trace  ourselves  back  to  these  great  men  and  women 
who  have  lived  and  kept  the  commandments  of  God  and  have  set  ex- 
amples in  the  world.  How  pleased  we  are  to  say,  "These  were  my  fore- 
bears." There  is  another  thought  that  should  be  in  our  minds,  and  that 
is,  when  we  join  them  in  heaven,  if  we  are  permitted  to  do  so,  will  they 
be  proud  of  us  ?  They  will  be  proud  only  if  we  have  kept  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  if  we  have  been  worthy  of  exaltation  in  the  Celestial 
Kingdom. 

Now  brethren,  the  storm  is  on — not  the  snowstorm — but  the  storm 
of  malice  and  hatef ulness  and  disagreeable  feeling,  and  bitterness  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  Let  us  not  partake  of  it ;  no  matter  what 
group  we  may  have  belonged  to  in  the  past,  let  us  come  into  the  sanctuary 
of  the  House  of  the  Lord  and  attune  ourselves  to  the  spirit  that  is 
always  present  when  He  is  there.  Then  when  we  go  out  we  can  resist 
the  temptations  that  sometimes  threaten  to  destroy  us,  and  in  turn 
destroy  our  families. 

TESTIMONY  AND  BLESSING 

I  know  that  God  lives ;  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God ;  I  know  that  this 
Church  was  organized  by  Him  for  the  blessing  of  all  mankind  who  would 
be  worthy  to  accept  it  or  who  would  prepare  themselves  to  accept  it.  We 
need  not  hesitate  to  divide  with  our  non-Mormon  neighbor  the  truths 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  if  we  have  qualified  to  do  so.  If  we  will 
store  our  minds  so  that  we  know  what  it  means  and  as  opportunity  offers 
drop  the  words  of  encouragement  and  help  that  they  need  they  will 
bless  us  forever. 

There  are  people  living  in  this  city  and  elsewhere,  not  members  of 
the  Church,  who  are  probably  listening  in  to  this  program  this  morning. 
They  have  not  yet  joined  the  Church,  but  they  know  that  there  is  some- 
thing comforting  and  uplifting  that  comes  from  this  house  when  we 
have  services  here,  and  I  have  had  some  of  them  say  to  me,  "It  is  a 
blessed  privilege  that  we  have  to  sit  at  home  and  listen  over  the  radio 
to  the  program  that  you  have  down  there  at  the  Tabernacle." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  peace  be  with  you.   God  bless  you.  Let 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

us  each  here  this  morning  renew  our  determination  to  be  worthy  of  our 
membership  in  this  Church  and  determine  that  as  far  as  it  is  possible  we 
will  do  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  do  to  bless  His  other  children,  for 
inasmuch  as  we  do  it  unto  these,  His  other  children,  He  has  said  we 
are  doing  it  unto  Him. 

Think  what  it  will  mean  if,  instead  of  having  been  selfish  trying 
to  save  only  our  own  little  family,  we  can  count  by  the  dozens  and  by 
the  hundreds  men  and  women  that  we  have  influenced  to  accept  the 
Gospel  of  our  Lord.  Then  will  we  feel  blessed  indeed  and  enjoy  their 
love  and  appreciation  forever. 

I  pray  that  we  may  so  live  that  He  who  knoweth  all  things  will 
welcome  us  and  say :  "Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant ;  thou  hast 
been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things. 
Enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord." 

That  this  glorious  greeting  may  be  for  us  and  all  that  we  may  be 
able  to  influence  in  the  world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11 :00  a.  m.,  Mountain  Standard 
Time,  the  regular  weekly  nation-wide  broadcast  of  choral  and  organ 
music  and  brief  spoken  word  was  presented  as  part  of  the  General  Con- 
ference proceedings.  This  program  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network,  through- 
out the  United  States  and  Canada,  and  by  short  wave  transmission  to 
many  foreign  lands.  The  broadcast  originated  with  Radio  Station  KSL, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  exclusive  of  routine  introductory  and  closing  an- 
nouncements, was  as  follows : 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans :  With  the  passing  of  another  week  of 
life  we  pause,  according  to  the  custom  of  many  years,  to  welcome  you 
again  within  these  hallowed  walls,  shadowed  by  the  everlasting  hills  of 
the  West.  This  is  the  638th  nationwide  performance  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  Temple  Square,  heard  each  week  at  this  hour  through 
the  facilities  of  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations. 

The  audience  that  fills  the  Tabernacle  this  morning  is  gathered 
here  from  out  of  many  lands. 

*  *  * 

We  begin  with  one  of  the  vigorous  hymns  of  the  restoration  by 
William  W.  Phelps,  as  arranged  by  the  conductor, — -"Now  Let  Us  Re- 
joice in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 

"Now  Let  us  Rejoice,"  by  Wm.  W.  Phelps,  arranged  by  Corn- 
wall  Choir 

"Nocturne,"  by  Grieg  Organ 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  As  this  traditional  hour  from  Temple 
Square  continues,  we  turn  to  the  works  of  Franz  Joseph  Haydn,  to 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  103 


present  from  "The  Passion"  the  chorus  known  as  "Lamb  of  God."  It 
begins  with  words  from  St.  Luke  which  are  among  the  most  unforget- 
table of  all  scripture — "Father  forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what 
they  do."  (Luke  23  :34) 

"Lamb  of  God,"  from  "The  Passion,"  by  Haydn  Choir 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  There  seems  to  have  come  to  dwell 
among  us  the  spirit  of  escape.  Perhaps  it  has  always  been  present,  but 
the  tenseness  of  our  times  makes  it  more  apparent.  We  seem  to  want  to 
escape  reality;  to  postpone  the  day  of  settlement;  to  prefer  present 
pleasure  to  future  happiness;  to  escape  the  consequences  of  our  own 
mistakes.  There  are  some  who  seek  to  escape  by  borrowing  rather  than 
face  the  restrictions  of  a  sound  economy.  There  are  some  who  would 
rather  mortgage  the  future  than  curtail  their  appetites.  There  are  some 
who  would  like  to  escape  from  truth,  because  acceptance  of  it  isn't  con- 
venient to  their  way  of  thinking  or  living.  There  are  some  who  count 
heavily  on  mercy  and  the  opportunities  of  the  moment,  rather  than 
on  justice  and  the  certain  reckoning  of  the  future.  Some  have  become 
materially  and  spiritually  insolvent — bankrupt,  both  in  the  things  of 
this  world  and  in  things  of  the  realm  beyond — and  rather  than  facing 
the  facts  and  paying  the  price  and  beginning  again  on  humble  but  sub- 
stantial foundations,  they  prefer  continuing  on  borrowed  time,  always 
with  the  shadow  of  inevitable  consequences  hanging  over  them,  but  never 
looking  at  things  quite  squarely.  No  doubt  there  would  be  less  of  the 
spirit  of  escape  if  we  could  bring  ourselves  to  the  realization  that  there  is 
no  such  thing  as  permanent  postponement.  Retribution  cannot  forever 
be  outdistanced.  The  judgments  of  men  may  be  slow,  but  they  are  sure, 
and  yet  more  certain  are  the  judgments  of  God.  No  one  was  ever  able  to 
cheat  at  anything  permanently.  No  one  has  ever  been  able  to  postpone 
a  time  of  reckoning  forever — even  though  he  may  have  departed  this  life 
before  he  faced  the  facts — for  it  is  written  in  the  record  of  scripture : 

Verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape ;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  And  the  rebellious  shall 
be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  for  their  iniquities  shall  be  spoken  upon 
the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed."  (D.  and  C.  1 :2,3) 

And  since  there  is  no  way  of  permanent  escape,  to  all  who  seek  an 
easy  way  out  it  should  be  said :  Face  the  issues  as  they  come ;  pay  the 
price,  whatever  it  is;  make  your  peace;  put  your  house  in  order,  and 
build  on  sure  foundations  for  that  future  wherein  no  mistakes  have  yet 
been  made. 

"High  on  the  Mountain  Top"  by  Ebenezer  Beesley  Organ 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  For  the  hymn  just  concluded  we  are 
indebted  to  Ebenezer  Beesley — "High  on  the  Mountain  Top  a  Banner 
is  Unfurled,"  as  arranged  by  the  organist. 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

"To  Thee  O  Lord,"  by  Kalinnokoff  Choir 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  We  close  now  from  Temple  Square 
with  a  chorus  from  Mendelssohn's  "Elijah,"  combining  a  scriptural  text 
from  Isaiah  and  the  Psalms — "And  then  shall  your  light  break  forth  as 
the  light  of  morning  breaketh — -Lord,  our  Creator,  how  excellent  thy 
name  is  in  all  the  nations!  Thou  fillest  heaven  with  thy  glory!" 

"And  then  shall  your  Light  Break  Forth,"  by  Mendelssohn 

 Choir 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say, 
What  Is  Truth  ?"— Jaques. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  convinced  that  we  cannot  afford  to  be  so  distracted  by  the 
exigencies  which  these  perilous  times  have  put  upon  us  as  to  forget  the 
fundamental  institutions,  principles  and  virtues  upon  which  our  national 
life  and  civilization  are  founded.  We  of  the  Church  are  constantly 
having  our  attention  directed  to  these  fundamentals  and  they  have  been 
and  will  be  made  the  subject  matter  for  addresses  at  this  Conference. 
It  is  upon  one  of  these  fundamental  institutions  of  society -that  I  wish 
to  speak  today — the  home.  I  am  painfully  aware  of  the  fact  that  I  can 
scarcely  hope  to  add  a  single  new  thought  to  this  old  subject.  I  am 
hopeful,  however,  that  I  may  be  able  to  refresh  your  own  thinking  a  little 
about  this  all-important  institution. 

THE  FAMILY  RELATIONSHIP  THE  FIRST  FORM  OF  GOVERNMENT 

To  get  anything  like  an  adequate  idea  of  the  place  of  the  home  in 
our  civilization  and  society,  I  think  it  necessary  to  look  back  upon  its 
history. 

It  would  not  be  possible  to  trace  even  the  outline  of  its  development 
in  the  time  allotted  to  me.  May  I,  however,  merely  call  attention  to  a 
few  well  recognized  facts  concerning  it.  The  government  initiated  in 
and  growing  out  of  the  home  was  the  first  known  form  of  human  gov- 
ernment. The  head  of  the  family  came  to  be  the  chieftain  of  the  tribe 
or  clan  and  his  lineal  descendants  were  accorded  the  inherited  right  of 
sovereignty.  The  patriarchs  were  not  only  prophets,  they  were  law- 
givers and  their  peoples  were  submissive  to  their  will.  In  this  respect 
earthly  governments  came  to  be  prototypes  of  divine  government,  for 
the  very  genius  of  divine  government  is  fatherhood  and  a  recognition 
of  the  family  relationship.  God,  the  Creator,  is  the  Father,  the  Propri- 
etor, and  the  Ruler;  men,  the  children,  bound  by  the  ties  of  filial  obli- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


105 


gation,  are  the  subjects  of  government, — amenable  in  all  respects  to  the 
will  and  dictates  of  the  Father. 

Then,  too,  throughout  the  history  of  civilization,  blood  ties  and 
race  have  been  the  strongest  cohesive  factors  in  the  grouping  of  society. 
Many  of  the  greatest  nations  have  been  but  enlarged  families  with  blood 
strains  of  remarkable  purity. 

THE  HOME  THE  FOUNDATION  OF  SOCIETY 

The  home  has  ever  been  the  center  of  economic  interest.  It  has 
undoubtedly  produced  a  greater  part  of  the  wealth  of  the  world  and 
it  has  also  spent  it. 

It  is  the  primary  educational  institution.  Important  as  schools  have 
been  they  have  never  occupied  a  position  more  than  complementary  to 
the  home,  which  is  the  nursery  not  only  of  all  human  beings  but  of  all 
virtue. 

Governments  which  have  attained  high  place  in  the  world's  history 
and  affairs  have,  I  think  without  exception,  been  those  which  have  given 
due  recognition  to  the  home  as  a  fundamental  institution  of  society.  They 
have  enacted  laws  for  its  protection  and  advancement,  and  crimes  against 
the  home  and  its  sanctity  have  been  regarded  as  among  the  most  heinous 
offenses. 

In  this  connection  I  recall  the  statement  of  an  eminent  man  who  at 
one  time,  speaking  in  the  British  House  of  Parliament  against  the  im- 
position of  a  tax  on  the  homes  of  the  poor,  said,  in  substance,  "My  home 
may  be  a  poor  and  rude  one;  the  roof  may  leak;  the  wind  may  enter; 
the,  rain  may  enter,  but  the  King  of  England  with  all  his  army  cannot 
enter.  My  home  is  my  castle,  sacred  and  inviolate  to  me  and  my  family." 
Such  a  conception  of  home  has  lain  at  the  very  foundation  of  English 
and  American  law  and  government  and  that  conception  is  in  no  small 
way  responsible  for  the  rights  and  liberties  which  we  now  enjoy. 

VALUE  OF  OLD-FASHIONED  HOME  LIFE 

What  is  its  prospect  in  this  dramatic  evolution  of  persons,  things 
and  institutions  which  is  now  in  process?  I  would  not  venture  a  sure 
prediction  but  I  do  agree  with  Dr.  Henry  Van  Dyke  who  said  that  "If 
old-fashioned  American  family  life  vanishes  nothing  can  take  its  place." 

What  was  an  old-fashioned  American  home,  or  rather  I  should  say, 
what  is  it,  because  I  am  thankful  to  note  that  there  are  still  some  such 
homes  left  in  the  land?  You  know  what  it  is.  You  know  that  it  is  not 
just  a  house,  however  grand  and  imposing  the  house  may  be  and  however 
embellished  it  may  be  with  costly  furniture,  rich  hangings  and  floor 
coverings  woven  of  the  toil  of  far-off  Persia.  You  know  that  it  is  not  a 
mansion  wherein  reside  a  man  and  a  woman,  fretting  under  the  bonds 
of  a  marriage  contract,  a  poodle  dog  and  a  retinue  of  servants  whose 
chief  function  it  is  to  see  that  the  three  chief  occupants  of  the  house, 
the  man,  the  wife  and  the  dog,  enjoy  equality  of  right  and  privilege. 
And  you  know  that  such  an  old-fashioned  home  is  not  ordinarily  located 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

among  the  costly  residences  of  the  rich.  You  know  that  it  is  usually  to 
be  found  among  the  modest  and  humble,  but  not  among  the  poor  of  the 
land  for  they  are  not  truly  poor  who  maintain  a  real  home.  You  know 
that  in  an  old-fashioned  American  home  you  will  find  a  large  family  of 
happy  boys  and  girls,  for  whom  father  and  mother  willingly,  patiently 
and  lovingly  devote  lives  of  toil  and  service ;  not  for  ostentation  and  pride 
and  the  gratification  of  selfish  desires  but  to  fulfill  high  conceptions  of 
duty  and  the  laws  of  God.   Are  such  homes  happy? 

AN  IDEAL  HOME 

I  used  to  live  in  the  heart  of  a  city.  My  nearest  neighbor  lived  in 
a  real  home.  He  had  a  yard  in  which  his  children  might  play.  They 
had  flowers  and  gardens,  trees  and  welcome  shade  from  the  summer 
sun.  His  girls,  educated,  cultured  and  refined  helped  their  mother  with 
housework.  His  boys  assisted  in  keeping  up  the  place  outside.  They 
loved  their  home.  It  belonged  to  them  all.  The  feeling  of  ownership 
and  proprietorship  was  with  them.  It  begat  thrift,  economy  and  indus- 
try. Their  common  interest  stimulated  mutual  confidence  and  affection 
that  cement  and  enrich  the  natural  ties  of  family.  They  were  happy  and 
content  and  they  were  splendid  citizens. 

FAMILY  LIFE  IN  APARTMENTS  NOT  IDEAL 

Most  of  the  other  people  who  resided  in  my  neighborhood  lived  in 
large  apartment  houses.  Some  few  had  children.  These  boys  and  girls 
had  no  yards,  no  gardens,  no  flowers,  no  places  to  play,  no  property  to 
care  for  and  no  responsibility.  They  came  to  my  lot  and  my  neighbor's. 
I  did  not  blame  them.  They  had  no  place  to  go.  They  injured  and 
destroyed  the  flowers,  shrubs,  and  lawns  and  other  property.  I  forgave 
them.  They  had  had  nothing  of  their  own  of  similar  kind  consequently 
they  had  never  learned  how  to  care  for  property. 

The  girls  who  lived  in  these  apartments  did  not  do  housework.  There 
was  not  much  to  be  done,  and  besides  they  had  no  time  for  it  because  it 
takes  all  the  time  of  these  girls  to  take  care  of  themselves.  It  is  a  big 
job.  Their  first  task  of  the  day  is  to  prepare  themselves  for  public  pre- 
sentation. I  have  not  time  to  describe  the  perplexities  of  that  operation. 
Suffice  it  to  say  that  it  requires  a  very  great  deal  of  labor  and  material 
to  produce  the  finished  product.  Then  there  are  the  daily  movies,  the 
teas,  the  auto  rides,  the  dances  and  the  cabarets  all  requiring  constant 
re-arrangement  of  toilet  and  appearance  and  involving  an  immense-  ex- 
penditure of  energy.  These  girls  of  the  apartments  are  really  hard-work- 
ing girls.  They  have  my  sympathy,  but  like  the  boys  they  do  not  have 
real  homes,  and  I  fear  they  are  not  learning  to  be  real  women. 

Yet  this  life  of  the  apartment  is  the  new  home  life ;  perhaps  here 
depicted  in  the  extreme.  Its  advocates  say  that  it  is  more  desirable  than 
the  old  home  life ;  that  it  has  more  conveniences,  ease  and  luxury  and 
less  of  work  and  responsibility.  They  clinch  the  argument  by  declaring 
that  it  costs  less.  It  does,  and  it  is  worth  less,  The  old-fashioned  American 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


107 


family  life  costs  more  but  it  is  worth  more.  It  costs  more  in  work,  self- 
sacrifice,  patience,  sleepless  nights,  heart-aches,  and  loving  service,  but 
the  smile  of  a  babe,  the  kiss  of  a  beautiful  daughter,  and  the  handclasp 
of  a  manly  boy  are  worth  more  than  all  the  cost. 

REQUIREMENTS  FOR  THE  MAKING  OF  GOOD  HOMES 

The  cry  of  the  world  is  for  men  and  women.  I  know  of  no  place 
where  they  can  be  found  except  in  the  homes  of  the  people.  The  homes 
which  produce  real  men  and  women  must  be  presided  over  and  main- 
tained by  men  of  strength  and  courage,  of  virtue  and  of  vision,  and  by 
women  of  tenderness,  unselfishness,  and  infinite  patience  and  love — en- 
dowments of  God  for  the  motherhood  of  the  race.  Good  living  is  the 
first  requirement  of  every  parent.  God  pity  the  unfortunate  parent  who 
comes  to  the  realization,  as  some  day  all  must  surely  do,  that  the  sins  of 
the  child  are  chiefly  attributable  to  his  or  her  own  bad  example  or  neglect. 

Criminologists  tell  us  that  most  of  our  delinquencies  originate  in 
bad  or  neglected  homes.  Economists  say  that  the  training  of  the  home 
is  largely  responsible  for  the  thrift,  industry,  and  prosperity  of  the  na- 
tion. Doctors  advise  us  that  the  health  of  the  people  depends  on  its  care 
and  teachings,  and  the  eugenist  assures  us  that  the  whole  trend  of  human 
happiness,  intelligence,  goodness  and  endurance  depends  on  it. 

Do  you  know  that  statisticians  have  scientifically  calculated  that  the 
United  States  will  support  a  population  of  not  to  exceed  two  hundred 
million  people,  and  that  we  are  very  rapidly  approaching  "this  point  of 
saturation"  ?  The  character  of  the  nation  and  its  destiny  depend  almost 
entirely  on  the  families  who  shall  make  up  the  two  hundred  million.  Will 
they  be  families  descended  from  the  old  stocks  of  America  who  set  up 
her  great  institutions  and  who  have  fought  for  and  fostered  her  liberty, 
her  equity  and  her  justice,  or  will  they  be  families  in  the  stream  of  whose 
blood  does  not  course  the  great  impulses,  the  indomitable  will,  and  ideal- 
ism which  have  been  and  are  the  genius  of  our  Democracy?  Such  ques- 
tions must  give  pause  and  concern  to  every  lover  of  America. 

THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  IDEAL  HOMES  A  GREAT  MISSION 

To  the  members  of  our  Church  the  home  has  an  enlarged  signifi- 
cance that  is  subordinate  to  nothing  else  in  life,  for  it  constitutes  not 
only  the  source  of  our  greatest  happiness  here  in  this  life,  but  also  the 
foundation  of  our  exaltation  and  glory  in  the  life  to  come.  After  all,  it 
is  essentially  a  religious  institution.  It  has  its  origin  in  religious  cere- 
mony. It  is  the  fulfillment  of  divine  command.  Its  government  is  of 
a  religious  nature,  and  the  finest  of  its  products  are  spiritual. 

So  it  is  here  in  the  humble  and  yet  exalted  institution  of  the  home 
that  I  find  the  greatest  opportunity  and  mission  for  men  and  women.  I 
am  sorry  to  say,  however,  that  the  record  does  not  in  all  cases  disclose  a 
very  creditable  response  to  this  big  opportunity  and  obligation.  Modern 
education  has  not  always  produced  good  home  makers.  Recently  pub- 
lished data  informs  us  that  the  average  number  of  children  in  the  lam- 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Dag 

ilies  of  the  boot-blacks  of  America  is  slightly  over  four,  while  the  average 
number  of  children  in  the  families  of  school  teachers  is  slightly  under 
two.  Now  it  may  be  that  two  school  teachers  exercise  more  and  better 
influence  than  four  boot-blacks,  but  how  long  w«l  it  take  on  the  present 
respective  rates  of  increase  for  the  boot-blacks  to  crowd  out  the  school 
teachers  ?  I  present  this  illustration  from  a  popular  scientist,  not  in  de- 
rogation of  people  who  follow  humble  vocations,  but  to  emphasize  the 
fact  that  the  world  supply  of  intelligence,  goodness  and  beauty  is  largely 
a  matter  of  propagation. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINT  HOMES 

There  is.  in  this  respect  a  traditional  and  rather  well  advertised  dis- 
tinction which  our  people  enjoy.  They  have  been  noted  for  their  large 
families  and  had  they  been  better  understood  they  would  be  famous 
for  their  good  families.  Children  have  been  our  best  crop  and  in  the 
good  old  homes  there  has  been  an  abundance  of  them.  Eight,  ten  and  a 
dozen  in  a  family  were  common  numbers. 

What  families  they  have  been !  In  days  of  privation  and  striving 
how  they  have  stood  together !  The  sacrifices  which  they  have  made, 
one  for  another ;  the  love,  the  service,  and  nobility  which  have  come  from 
these  great  homes  will  probably  never  be  known  to  many,  but  those  who 
know  of  it  and  speak  of  the  accomplishments  of  our  Church  in  the  first 
century  of  its  existence,  mention  first  the  noble  fathers  and  mothers  who 
in  log  cabins  of  the  frontier  or  mansions  of  luxury  have  served  faith- 
fully as  priests  and  priestesses  in  the  temple  of  the  home. 

Our  Church  calls  to  its  members  and  to  all  people  to  maintain  the 
integrity,  the  purity  and  the  high  purposes  of  this  sacred  institution.  I 
trust  that  no  one  will  ever  so  yield  to  the  insidious  appeals  of  selfishness, 
vanity,  and  the  world,  as  to  be  swerved  from  so  doing. 

CHILDREN  THE  JOY  OF  THE  HOME 

To  warn  of  a  great  danger  I  must  speak  of  it  more  specifically.  I 
do  so  most  reverently.  If  it  shall  please  the  Lord  to  send  to  your  home 
a  goodly  number  of  children,  I  hope,  I  pray,  you  will  not  deny  them 
entrance.  If  you  should,  it  would  cause  you  infinite  sorrow  and  remorse. 
One  has  said  that  he  could  wish  his  worst  enemy  no  more  hell  than  this, 
that  in  the  life  to  come  someone  might  approach  him  and  say,  "I  might 
have  come  down  into  the  land  of  America  and  done  good  beyond  com- 
putation, but  if  I  came  at  all  I  had  to  come  through  your  home  and  you 
were  not  man  enough  or  woman  enough  to  receive  me.  You  broke  down 
the  frail  footway  on  which  I  must  cross  and  then  you  thought  you  had 
done  a  clevfer  thing." 

ETERNITY  OF  THE  MARRIAGE  COVENANT 

I  said  that  for  our  Church  the  home  had  a  great  religious  signifi- 
cance. We  believe  that  the  marriage  compact  is  not  for  life  only  or 
"until  death  doth  part"  but  for  all  eternity;  that  when  the  covenant  is 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


109 


entered  into  in  the  proper  manner  and  place  and  sealed  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  which  is  the  delegated  authority  of  God  to  man, 
it  becomes  an  everlasting  union,  an  eternal  institution  into  which  there 
shall  enter  all  children  born  in  such  wedlock,  and  that  the  ties  of  kinship 
so  created  are  eternal  ties  recognized  in  heaven  as  on  earth.  Our  heaven 
is  little  more  than  a  projection  of  the  sacred  institutions  of  our  homes 
into  eternity. 

The  spirits  of  men,  which  are  the  literal  children  of  the  Father,  are 
by  Him  permitted  to  take  on  mortality  through  a  home,  it  being  the  chief 
purpose  of  the  administrators  of  the  home  to  guide  the  spirits  so  en- 
trusted to  their  keeping  back  to  the  eternal  presence  whence  they  came. 

So  it  is  that  we  strive  so  diligently  to  maintain  our  children  in  the 
bond  of  this  eternal  covenant  and  union.  We  do  not  fear  death  because 
death  does  not  break  this  bond.  We  must  all  go  by  way  of  it  to  find  place 
in  the  eternal  family  circle.  But  we  do  fear  sin  that  may  deprive  us  of 
the  presence  of  a  loved  one  when  we  meet  in  our  future  homes. 

We  deplore  divorce.  It  strikes  at  the  very  foundation  of  the  home. 
The  number  of  divorces  among  our  people  is  relatively  low. 

Perhaps  this  mere  glimpse  into  our  philosophy  of  life  and  heaven 
and  exaltation  will  serve  to  justify  our  undying  interest  in  the  homes 
of  the  people. 

We  rely  on  these  institutions  to  produce  the  manhood  and  the 
womanhood  for  the  Church  and  the  nation.  Respect  for  law,  order  and 
established  institutions  must  come  from  good  family  life  if  it  comes  at 
all.  Boys  and  girls  who  grow  up  to  call  father  "the  old  man"  and  mother 
"the  old  woman"  are  not  likely  to  be  easily  amenable  to  the  necessary 
restrictions  which  society  imposes.  If  they  cannot  respect  and  love  home 
and  parents,  their  affection  and  regard  for  any  worthy  cause  and  insti- 
tution are  doubtful. 

RELIGION  A  SAFEGUARD 

So,  I  do  not  question  the  dominant  place  of  home  in  our  civilization, 
but  I  am  concerned  about  the  kind  of  homes  we  shall  maintain.  I  believe 
the  nation  would  be  infinitely  more  secure  if  the  influence  of  pure  religion 
could  come  to  every  home.  I  have  confidence  in  family  prayer.  It  would 
be  far  better  if  the  Sabbath  were  observed  as  a  holy  day  rather  than  a 
holiday.   The  enemies  of  society  are  not  reverent,  God-loving  people. 

We  live  in  a  Christian  nation,  founded  on  Christian  principles.  The 
only  real  hope  for  the  world  lies  in  the  democracy  and  altruism  of  Christ. 
Christian  homes  are  the  answer. 

Years  ago  it  was  a  common  thing  to  see  in  houses  placards  or  framed 
mottos,  worked  in  attractive  designs  and  colors,  hung  ,  over  walls  and 
mantels,  bearing  the  inscription :  "God  bless  our  home."  It  is  not  fash- 
ionable to  display  these  mottos  now.  One  never  sees  them  any  more.  I 
trust,  however,  that  if  they  may  not  hereafter  hang  on  the  walls  of  our 
houses,  they  may  be  deeply  inscribed  in  our  hearts.  God  bless  our  homes ! 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  length  of  time  that  has  elapsed  since  the  April  Conference  has 
only  served  to  impress  upon  me  the  sacredness  of  the  position  I  am  now 
called  to  occupy.  I  am  therefore  dependent  upon  the  Spirit  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  today,  and  pray  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

THE  LORD  CONCERNED  IN  THE  WELFARE  OF  HIS  CHILDREN 

I  trust  the  words  that  I  shall  speak  to  you  this  morning  will  be 
words  of  wisdom  and  words  guided  by  the  spirit  of  this  great  Con- 
ference. 

During  the  last  five  and  a  half  years  my  mind  has  been  occupied 
largely  in  matters  that  pertain  to  the  safety  and  welfare  of  this  people. 
In  my  study  of  this  subject  and  my  attention  to  these  matters,  I  have 
become  impressed  with  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  that  has  dic- 
tated counsel,  wisdom,  and  revelation  sufficient  for  our  needs.  That 
the  Lord  is  concerned  about  the  welfare  of  this  people  there  can  be  no 
question,  as  is  evidenced  by  a  revelation  given  early  in  the  history  of  this 
Church  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  these  words : 

And  it  is  my  purpose  to  provide  for  my  Saints,  for  all  things  are 
mine. 

But  it  must  needs  be  done  in  mine  own  way.  (D.  &  C.  104:15,  16.) 

I  received  some  time  ago  a  letter  from  a  friend  that  suggests  the 
concern  of  our  Father,  and  the  way  by  which  His  concern  will  be  mani- 
fest.  I  quote : 

For  over  a  century  men  have  been  preaching  the  gospel  of  sal- 
vation but  have  never  lifted  their  eyes  beyond  the  old  sectarian 
concept  of  a  salvation  men  have  to  die  to  get.  When  we  become 
conscious  of  the  fact  that  there  is  no  time  limit  upon  the  saving  prin- 
ciples and  powers  of  the  Gospel  but  that  they  may  be  drawn  upon 
to  meet  the  problems  of  today  and  tomorrow,  as  well  as  of  the  Here- 
after, we  will  then  become  the  people  who  will  be  the  light  of  the 
world. 

I 

INSPIRED  LEADERSHIP  THE  PRESENT  NEED 

The  dispensation  in  which  you  and  I  live  is  intended  to  be  a  dem- 
onstration of  the  power  and  effectiveness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  meet  these  everyday  problems  here  and  now.  The  Lord  declared  in 
1838: 

For  thus  shall  my  Church  be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light 
may  be  a  standard  for  the  nations; 

And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon 
her  stakes,  may  be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm, 
and  from  wrath  when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon 
the  whole  earth.    (D.  and  C.  115:4-6.) 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


111 


The  uncertainty  of  the  leadership  of  men  of  the  world  in  this  day 
is  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  we  have  many  changing  programs  that 
over  night,  and  day  by  day  seem  to  fluctuate  between  poles  of  the  great- 
est of  uncertainty.  We  hear  much  about  "the  abundant  life,"  and 
"social  security,"  and  there  are  some  I  fear  who  are  believers  in  the 
thought  that  these  goals  will  come  from  the  working  out  of  the  philoso- 
phies of  men.  Enterprising  newspaper  writers  have  suggested  as  you 
gather  to  this  Conference  that  you  are  coming  here,  perhaps,  as  you  have 
never  done  before  to,  hear  words  of  direction  and  counsel  from  those 
who  stand  as  your  Church  leaders,  and  well  you  might  come  in  this  day, 
for  the  Prophet  has  declared : 

Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret 
unto  his  servants  the  prophets.    (Amos  3:7.) 

Last  night  as  we  left  the  Priesthood  meeting  you  heard  the  thunder 
roar,  you  saw  the  lowering  of  clouds,  and  you  said  to  yourselves :  "Well, 
it  looks  like  we  are  going  to  have  storms  tomorrow."  And  yesterday 
morning  and  the  day  before  as  the  sun  came  up  on  a  cloudless  sky  you 
said,  "Well,  it  looks  like  we  will  have  fair  weather."  And  you  who  have 
thus  been  able  to  read  most  accurately  the  signs  of  the  weather  might 
well  listen  to  what  the  Master  said  to  those  in  His  day  as  He  used  these 
expressions  as  a  parable : 

O  ye  hypocrites,  ye  can  discern  the  face  of  the  sky;  but  can  ye 
not  discern  the  signs  of  the  times?  (Matthew  16:3.) 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN 

My  purpose  in  the  few  minutes  that  I  stand  here  will  be  to  give  you 
something  of  what  the  Lord  has  said  pertaining  to  this  day,  and  what 
might  be  the  expectation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  concerning  the  way 
by  which  the  Lord  would  guide  us  to  safe  shores.  Not  only  has  the  Lord 
given  us  the  plan  to  follow,  but  He  has  given  us  in  the  revelations  one 
of  the  basic,  if  not  the  most  basic  reason  for  the  ills  that  beset  mankind. 
This  is  what  the  Lord  said,  and  I  suppose  as  you  understand  this  you 
will  recognize  in  it  the  reason  for  selfishness  and  for  jealousies  that 
develop  into  bitterness  and  hatred,  and  finally  into  war  and  bloodshed. 
Here  is  the  simple  statement  of  the  Lord : 

But  it  is  not  given  that  one  man  should  possess  that  which  is 
above  another,  wherefore  the  world  lieth  in  sin.    (D.  and  C.  49:20.) 

While  the  world  today  is  groping  for  a  solution,  (and  I  repeat  that 
some  of  our  people,  I  am  afraid,  have  the  mistaken  notion  that  they 
must  look  to  some  development  of  the  philosophies  of  men  in  this  nation 
or  copied  from  nations  abroad,  to  solve  present  problems)  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  for  over  one  hundred 
years  the  Lord  has  given  us  the  way,  and  the  plan  by  which  might  come 
the  ultimate  solution  of  all  the  economic  problems  of  this  day.  Listen 
to  what  the  Lord  said  in  a  revelation : 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Dag 

For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and  in  holiness;  her  borders 
must  be  enlarged;  her  stakes  must  be  strengthened;  yea,  verily  I  say 
unto  you,  Zion  must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments. 

Therefore,  I  give  unto  you  this  commandment,  that  ye  bind  your- 
selves by  this  covenant,  and  it  shall  be  done  according  to  the  laws 
of  the  Lord. 

Behold,  here  is  wisdom  also  in  me  for  your  good. 

And  you  are  to  be  equal,  or  in  other  words,  you  are  to  have  equal 
claims  on  the  properties,  for  the  benefit  of  managing  the  concerns  of 
your  stewardships,  every  man  according  to  his  wants  and  his  needs, 
inasmuch  as  his  wants  are  just — 

And  all  this  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church  of  the  living  God,  that 
every  man  may  improve  upon  his  talent,  that  every  man  may  gain 
other  talents,  yea,  even  an  hundred  fold,  to  be  cast  into  the  Lord's 
storehouse,  to  become  the  common  property  of  the  whole  Church — 

Every  man  seeking  the  interest  of  his  neighbor,  and  doing  all 
things  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God.  (D.  and  C.  82:14-19.) 

THE  REVELATION  PERTAINING  TO  THE  UNITED  ORDER 

One  year  prior  to  the  receiving  of  that  revelation  the  Lord  gave 
the  details — the  minutest  of  details — of  the  organization  we  have  come 
to  call  the  United  Order.  He  told  us  how  consecrations  were  to  be  made 
and  were  to  be  received ;  He  told  us  how  the  residue  or  surpluses  were 
to  be  handled  and  distributed ;  He  told  us  something  about  the  establish- 
ment of  stewardships  and  private  ownerships,  and  how  those  within 
such  an  organization  should  act.  This  is  not  the  first  time  that  such  an 
organization  has  been  given  to  this  people.  We  read  that  shortly  after 
the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior  the  followers  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  es- 
tablished an  order  where  they  had  all  things  in  common,  and  two  hundred 
years  after  the  Savior's  coming  we  find  a  people  on  this  continent  of 
which  it  was  said  that  they  likewise  were  living  in  close  bonds  of  fellow- 
ship and  love,  so  much  so  that  there  was  not  to  be  found  a  happier  people 
anywhere  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 

BEGINNING  OF  THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PLAN 

Five  and  a  half  years  ago  when  I,  under  an  assignment  from  the 
First  Presidency,  accompanied  Brother  Melvin  J.  Ballard  throughout 
the  Church  to  make  the  initial  announcement  of  the  present  movement 
known  as  the  Church  Welfare  Plan,  he  was  asked  everywhere :  "Is  this 
the  beginning  of  the  United  Order?"  And  to  all  such  questioners 
Brother  Ballard's  answer  was  the  same  :  "No,  it  is  not  the  beginning 
of  the  United  Order,  but  it  may  be  that  in  this  movement  the  Lord  may 
be  giving  His  people  an  examination  to  see  how  far  they  have  come 
toward  a  condition  where  they  might  live  as  one." 

As  I  have  thought  about  that  question,  and  as  I  have  thought  about 
his  answer,  I  have  had  difficulty  understanding  how  a  people  who  are 
not  able  to  sacrifice  to  a  point  where  they  can  pay  a  tenth  of  their  in- 
terest annually  and  abstain  from  two  meals  on  the  first  Sunday  of  the 
month  and  pay  that  as  an  offering  for  the  care  of  the  needy,  I  have 
difficulty  in  understanding  how  we  can  believe  that  many  of  our  people 
are  more  than  ten  percent  ready  for  the  United  Order. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


113 


Furthermore,  I  have  difficulty  understanding  that  they  would  be 
able  to  live  in  the  United  Order  were  it  to  be  instituted  in  this  day.  I 
also  have  grave  doubts  that  prosperous  times  will  make  possible  that 
happy  day  spoken  of.  I  fear  we  must  yet  see  more  difficult  and  trying 
times  than  any  we  have  yet  passed  through  before  such  a  day  can  come. 

There  are  some  things  of  which  I  am  sure,  and  that  is  that  contrary 
to  the  belief  and  mistaken  ideas  of  some  of  our  people,  the  United  Order 
will  not  be  a  Socialistic  or  Communistic  set-up ;  it  will  be  something 
distinctive  and  yet  will  be  more  capitalistic  in  its  nature  than  either 
Socialism  or  Communism,  in  that  private  ownership  and  individual 
responsibility  will  be  maintained.  I  am  sure  also  that  when  it  comes  it 
will  come  from  the  leaders  of  this  Church  whom  you  sustain  as  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators,  and  will  not  come  from  some  man  who  does  not 
occupy  that  position.  It  will  not  come  as  a  political  program,  legislated 
by  men  not  possessed  of  that  authority.  I  am  also  convinced  that  the 
time  is  here  when  Zion  must  put  on  her  beautiful  garments  preparatory 
for  the  second  coming  of  the  Savior,  and  I  believe  firmly  that  that 
preparation  is  in  progress.  I  am  likewise  persuaded  that  the  Church 
Welfare  Plan  is  contributing  mightily  to  that  preparation. 

It  is  more  than  just  a  coincidence  that  our  Presidency,  in  1936, 
from  this  stand  announcing  the  beginning  of  this  Welfare  movement, 
made  this  significant  statement : 

No  pains  must  be  spared  to  wipe  out  all  feeling  of  diffidence, 
shame,  or  embarrassment  on  the  part  of  those  receiving  relief.  The 
Ward  must  be  one  great  family  of  equals. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  THE  PLAN  TO  HELP  THE  POOR 

I  have  seen  from  a  humble  beginning  an  organization  grow  to  where 
now  there  has  been  produced  throughout  the  Church  great  quantities  of 
foodstuffs.  I  have  seen  a  system  of  equitable  distribution  of  those  food- 
stuffs grow  up  under  the  guidance  of  our  leaders,  so  much  so  that  the 
eighty-three  storehouses  we  now  have,  or  that  are  in  course  of  construc- 
tion, may  each  have  an  equitable  supply  of  all  these  commodities,  and  as 
great  a  variety  as  though  they  were  here  in  the  center  part  of  the  Church. 
I  remember  also  that  no  Bishop  today  who  is  faithful  in  bearing  his  re- 
sponsibility may  say  that  he  cannot  take  care  of  faithful  members  of  his 
Ward  because  he  has  insufficient  funds.  I  know  that  in  these  years  we 
have  been  striving  to  a  great  end,  and  we  have  been  led  by  the  hand  of 
our  Father. 

We  have  come,  yes,  in  a  day  when  "The  way  of  the  Lord,"  as  He 
described  it,  would  be  applied,  when  the  poor  would  be  exalted,  or  in 
other  words  stimulated  to  success  and  pride,  and  uplifted  because  the 
rich  have  been  made  low,  or  in  other  words,  because  the  rich  have  been 
made  humble  and  willing  to  give  of  their  substance,  their  time,  and  their 
talent,  and  their  wisdom,  and  their  example  that  the  poor  might  be  thus 
guided  and  directed.  I  have  seen  team  work  and  cooperation  grow,  and 
I  have  ,  seen  the  Priesthood  take  its  place  in  blessing  this  Church  tem- 
porally and  spiritually  in  a  most  glorious  way. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 


PREPARATION  NECESSARY  BEFORE  THE  SECOND  COMING  OF  CHRIST 

I  am  persuaded  that  the  days  of  trial  and  tribulation,  the  time  for 
testing  the  fidelity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  here  as  has  been  foretold. 
I  am  also  convinced  that  you  and  I  will  not  be  prepared  for  the  living  of 
the  Celestial  law  in  preparation  for  the  Second  Coming  if  we  are  not  able 
to  live  the  law  of  tithing,  and  pay  our  Fast  offerings,  and  subscribe  whole- 
heartedly to  the  workings  of  the  Welfare  Plan  at  the  present  time.  In 
my  mind  there  is  grave  doubt  that  any  man  can  abide  the  day  of  the 
Second  Coming  who  is  not  willing  and  able  to  follow  the  leadership  of 
these  men  whom  the  Lord  has  set  to  counsel  and  guide  us  in  this  day. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  we  are  not  dependent  alone  upon  the  faith 
of  those  who  lived  centuries  ago,  or  even  a  hundred  years  ago,  for  reve- 
lations that  were  given  unto  them  in  that  day.  In  this  day  He  has  given 
us  leaders  who  are  possessed  of  the  same  spirit  of  revelation.  This  is 
what  the  Lord  said,  speaking  to  those  who  held  Apostleship : 

And  this  is  the  ensample  unto  them,  that  they  shall  speak  as 
they  are  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the 
mind  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  (D.  and  C.  68:3,  4.) 

INSPIRED  WORDS  OF  PAST  CHURCH  LEADERS 

It  should  not  be  necessary  today  for  us  to  expect  new  written  reve- 
lation on  every  point  when  we  have  these  men  thus  possessed  of  that 
same  spirit  of  revelation.  A  brief  review  of  the  past  instruction  of  our 
leaders  should  only  serve  to  warn  the  disobedient  and  to  encourage  the 
obedient  to  continue  faithful.  Today  listen  to  the  words  of  President 
Wilf ord  Woodruff  that  he  spoke  more  than  forty  years  ago : 

So  far  as  temporal  matters  are  concerned,  we  have  got  to  go  to 
work  and  provide  for  ourselves.  The  day  will  come  when  you  will 
see  the  necessity  for  making  your  own  shoes  and  clothing,  raising 
your  own  food,  and  uniting  together  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord.  We  will- be  preserved  in  the  mountains  of  Israel  in  the  day  of 
God's  judgment. 

I  therefore  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  prepare  for  that 
which  is  to  come. 

Have  you  made  that  preparation?  Have  you  become  a  self-sus- 
taining people  ?  We  were  warned  to  be  so  by  a  man  whom  we  sustained 
as  the  representative  of  our  Heavenly  Father  here  upon  this  earth.  Today 
we  are  suffering  from  difficulties  between  capital  and  labor.  Are  you 
aware  that  our  leader  of  nearly  forty  years  ago  told  us  something  that 
if  we  would  have  heeded  would  have  guided  us  safely  past  some  of  the 
ills  of  the  present  time. 

Lorenzo  Snow  spoke  these  words : 

Ye  toiling  millions  who  in  the  sweat  of  your  faces  earn  your  daily 
bread,  the  day  of  your  redemption  draweth  nigh.   Cease  to  waste  your 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


115 


wages  on  that  which  helps  to  keep  you  in  want.  Regard  not  the  wealth 
of  your  enemy  and  your  employer  as  your  oppressor.  Seek  for  the 
union  of  capital  and  labor.  Be  provident  when  in  prosperity.  Do  not 
become  a  prey  to  designing  men  who  seek  to  stir  up  strife  for  their 
own  selfish  ends.  Strive  for  your  rights  by  all  lawful  means,  and 
desist  from  violence  and  destruction.  Dissipation  and  vice  are  the 
chains  that  bind  you  to  slavery. 

Men  and  women  of  wealth,  use  your  riches  to  give  employment 
to  the  laborer;  take  the  idle  from  the  crowded  centers  of  population, 
and  place  them  on  the  unfilled  areas  that  await  the  hand  of  industry. 
Unlock  your  vaults,  unloose  your  purses,  and  invest  in  enterprises 
that  will  give  work  to  the  unemployed  and  relieve  the  wretchedness 
I  that  poisons  the  moral  atmosphere  around  you.  Make  others  happy 
and  you  will  be  happy  yourself. 

We  have  heard  much  said  in  this  Conference  about  keeping  out  of 
debt  and  avoiding  speculation.  From  this  stand  just  nine  years  ago 
now,  from  the  inspired  lips  of  our  late  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  he 
spoke  these  words ;  (and  they  should  be  something  of  a  condemnation 
to  those  who  disregarded  his  words,  and  should  be  something  of  a  bless- 
ing to  those  who  listened  to  and  kept  ^hat  counsel.)  This  is  what  he  said 
referring  to  and  warning  against  borrowing  and  going  into  debt : 

I  fear  that  under  existing  conditions  we  are  gradually  drifting 
toward  a  paternal  government,  a  government  which  will  so  entrench 
itself  that  the  people  will  become  powerless  to  disrupt  it,  in  which 
the  lives  and  liberties  of  the  people  at  large  may  be  jeopardized.  They 
are  pouring  millions  of  dollars  in  this  time  of  need  into  sources  for 
the  benefit  of  the  people,  and  it  is  a  great  benefit  and  perhaps  sal- 
vation, 'but  it  is  going  to  result  in  this,  I  am  going  to  make  this  state- 
ment, that  if  the  present  policy  is  continued  it  will  not  be  long  before 
the  government  will  be  in  the  banking  business,  it  will  be  in  the 
farming  business,  it  will  be  in  the  cattle  and  sheep  business,  for  many 
of  these  debts  will  never  be  paid.  This  will  mean  the  appointment  of 
innumerable  agencies.  The  government  now  is  overloaded  with  com- 
missions and  agencies,  some  of  them  administering  the  very  laws  that 
Congress  itself  has  enacted.  Someone  else  should  be  administering 
those  laws.  If  you  want  to  save  yourselves  from  the  bondage  of  debt 
and  political  influences  which  are  not  of  your  own  choosing,  I  ask 
you  to  think  of  what  I  have  said. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  men  today  who  have  told 
us  repeatedly  and  also  warned  against  the  evil  and  vice  of  liquor  in,  our 
midst.  We  have  been  told  that  we  must  patronize  and  foster  home  in- 
dustry, to  avoid  speculation,  to  make  savings  in  foods  and  clothing  for 
at  least  a  year.  We  have  had  our  leaders  plead  with  us  to  pursue  a  course 
that  would  tend  to  keep  us  out  of  war.  I  admonish  you  in  all  sobriety 
and  seriousness  to  listen  and  heed  before  it  is  too  late. 

Oh,  may  we  not  be  those  of  whom  the  Lord  complained : 

In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel;  but, 
in  the  day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me.  (D.  and 
C.  101:8.) 

Remember  that  the  Lord  said : 

For  if  you  will  that  I  give  unto  you  a  place  in  the  celestial  world, 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

you  must  prepare  yourselves  by  doing  the  things  which  I  have  com- 
manded you  and  required  of  you.    (D.  and  C.  78:7.) 

SAFETY  IN  FOLLOWING  COUNSEL  OF  CHURCH  LEADERS 

Today  you  and  I  are  here  because  we  listened  to  the  counsel  of 
President  Brigham  Young,  and  turned  deaf  ears  to  the  pleadings  of  men 
like  James  J.  Strang,  Sidney  Rigdon  and  others  who  would  have  led  us 
from  the  path  of  truth  and  right.  I  bear  you  my  witness  in  all  humility 
that  if  your  children  and  my  children,  our  grandchildren,  our  great- 
grandchildren, remain  faithful  to  this  Church  it  will  be  because  you  and 
I  remained  steadfast  in  the  testimony  that  these  men  are  the  prophets 
of  the  living  God  and  that  we  must  follow  their  counsel  if  we  would  be 
saved  in  the  days  of  peril.  Therefore,  "stand  ye  in  holy  places  and  be 
not  moved,"  that  we  might  abide  the  day  of  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man  and  be  caught  up  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  to  meet  our  Redeemer 
when  He  comes  on  earth  to  reign,  and  reign  with  Him  a  thousand  years 
with  our  children  and  the  redeemed  of  our  Father's  house,  I  pray  humbly, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  must  confess  that  as  disturbing  as  it  is  to  stand  before  this  congre- 
gation it  is  not  so  much  so  as  the  experience  I  have  already  been  through 
this  morning  in  presenting  the  nationwide  broadcast.  I  never  approach 
the  microphone  before  a  broadcast  without  fear  and  trembling,  even 
though  I  have  presented  nationwide  broadcasts  from  this  pulpit  every 
week,  with  rare  exceptions,  for  nearly  twelve  years.  I  have  a  great  deal 
of  respect  for  five  or  ten  minutes  of  time ;  I  know  what  it  is  worth  on 
the  radio.  I  know  that  it  is  sufficient  time  for  a  man  to  get  himself  into 
a  great  deal  of  trouble.  I  know  that  multiplied  by  the  number  of  people 
here,  it  is  a  great  responsibility,  and  I  know  that  a  message  can  come 
forth  in  that  time  if  the  Lord  so  directs,  and  to  this  end  I  ask  your  faith 
and  prayers. 

A  SURVEY  RESULTING  IN  REARRANGEMENT  OF  THE 
TEN  COMMANDMENTS 

I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Carlton  Culmsee  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity for  inviting  my  attention  to  a  survey  recently  conducted  by  a 
professor  of  psychology.  The  survey  queried  students  and  teachers  in 
two  of  the  major  institutions  of  learning  in  America,  one  in  the  far 
west,  and  one  in  the  middle  west.  The  result  announced  in  the  press 
earlier  in  the  year,  was  the  rearrangement  of  the  order  of  the  Ten 
Commandments.  The  presumption  of  rearranging  the  order  of  the  Ten 
Commandments  is  exceeded  only  by  the  manner  in  which  they  were  re- 
arranged. These  many  students  and  teachers  were  asked  to  list  the  Ten 
Commandments  in  what  they  considered  to  be  the  order  of  their  im- 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


117 


portance,  and  the  results  indicate  facts  with  which  you  and  I  are  already 
familiar. 

For  example,  the  Fourth  Commandment,  referring  to  observance 
of  the  Sabbath  day  was  moved  to  ninth  place.  I  am  sure  that  we  see 
the  evidences  of  this  feeling  all  about  us.  I  would  hesitate  to  make  the 
mistake  that  some  in  ancient  Israel  made  in  particularizing  too  much 
on  what  should  and  should  not  be  done  on  the  Sabbath  day,  but  I  am 
sure  that  most  Latter-day  Saints  know  when  they  are  keeping  the 
Sabbath  day  and  when  they  are  not  keeping  it,  in  spite  of  all  the 
rationalizing  that  we  do.  I  must  confess  I  am  still  old-fashioned  enough 
to  be  shocked  to  go  among  the  Wards  and  Stakes  and  find  Ward  or  Stake 
officers  excused  for  deer  hunting,  or  pheasant  hunting,  or  for  fishing' — ■ 
not  fishers  of  men,  by  the  way.  I  am  not  sure  that  this  is  not  a  day  on 
which  to  catch  up  with  all  the  odd  jobs  that  have  been  neglected  during 
the  week.  I  am  sure  that  it  is  not  a  day  for  public  celebration  or  for 
athletic  contests.  I  am  disturbed  in  my  thoughts  when  buses  come  into 
my  neighborhood  and  take  our  young  men  and  women  off  for  a  day  of 
Sabbath  skiing.  I  am  sure  in  my  own  heart  that  it  is  not  a  day  for 
patronizing  places  of  commercial  entertainment,  and  I  am  sure,  to  repeat, 
that  we  know  in  our  hearts  when  we  are  and  when  we  are  not  keeping 
this  day  of  rest  and  worship  and  good  works. 

Another  of  the  significant  changes  in  this  survey  was  the  moving  of 
the  Third  Commandment  to  tenth  place.  That  has  reference  to  profanity, 
to  the  taking  of  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain.  The  students  so  queried 
considered  that  of  least  importance.  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  it 
would  have  been  eliminated  entirely,  except  that  there  was  the  place  to 
fill,  and  they  had  to  include  it  somewhere.  Our  brother,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  has  recently  written  two  articles  that  have  appeared  in  current 
issues  of  the  Improvement  Era  on  the  proper  use  of  the  name  of  Deity, 
which  I  commend  for  your  reading  and  re-reading.  I  am  sure  that  this 
revolting  practice  of  prevalent  profanity  is  grievous  in  the  sight  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  an  offense  to  every  sensitive  and  thoughtful  and 
reverent  man  or  woman. 

Another  most  significant  change  was  this:  The  First  Command- 
ment was  relegated  to  the  seventh  position,  that  one  that  has  reference  to 
the  Lord  God  and  our  relationship  to  Him.  In  other  words,  it  means 
that  in  the  thinking  of  these  university  students,  and  I  believe  they  are 
a  barometer  of  thinking  generally,  the  Lord  has  been  relegated  to  a  place 
of  secondary  importance  in  the  scheme  of  religion,  and  religion  in  their 
minds  has  been  reduced  to  a  system  of  ethical  standards,  and  when  we 
reduce  religion  to  a  mere  code  of  ethics  we  have  stripped  it  of  its  life 
and  power. 

The  complete  order  of  rearrangement  was  as  follows,  with  the 
original  scriptural  number  in  parenthesis : 

1.  Thou  shalt  not  kill.  (6) 

2.  Thou  shalt  not  steal.  (8) 

3.  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery.  (7) 

5.  Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother.  C5) 

6.  Thou  shalt  not  covet.  (10) 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

7.  I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  thou  shalt  have  no  other  Gods  before 
me.  (1) 

8.  Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  me  a  graven  image.  (2) 

9.  Remember  the  Sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy.  (4) 

10.  Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord,  thy  God  in  vain.  (3) 

I  am  sure  that  the  Lord  knew  what  He  was  doing,  that  He  is  enough 
of  a  teacher,  to  state  first  things  first,  and  I  repeat,  that  the  presumption 
of  rearranging  the  order  of  the  Ten  Commandments  according  to  their 
supposed  current  social  importance  is  exceeded  only  by  the  significance 
of  the  order  of  this  rearrangement.  The  fact  is  if  we  were  to  keep  the 
First  Commandment — and  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  hearts,  and 
have  no  other  Gods  before  Him — all  the  others  would  follow  in  due 
course  without  any  difficulty  whatever. 

TRUTH  NEEDS  NO  EMBELLISHMENT 

I  am  aware  that  we  live  in  an  age  of  great  exaggeration,  of  un- 
guarded statement,  of  propaganda,  as  has  so  frequently  been  spoken 
of  in  this  conference — that  shouting  is  sometimes  thought  to  be  a  sub- 
stitute for  truth,  that  there  are  those,  the  type  of  which  you  know  as  well 
as  I,  who  believe  if  they  shout  a  thing  long  enough  and  loud  enough 
some  of  it  will  be  believed  regardless  of  its  inherent  truth  or  falsity. 

It  was  invited  to  my  attention  recently  by  a  student  of  Scripture, 
not  of  our  Church,  that  the  Savior  of  the  world  seldom  indulged  in 
the  use  of  modifiers  or  intensifiers,  or  adjectives.  He  simply  stated  plain 
truth  without  undue  embellishment,  and  I  think  this  is  a  thought  to  keep 
well  in  mind  in  this  day  when  everything  is  represented  as  being  "colos- 
sal" "stupendous"  or  "Gargantuan"  or  "ultra"  or  something  of  the  kind 
■ — whatever  it  is  the  "greatest"  of  whatever  it  is.  In  the  face  of  such 
statements  I  remind  myself  that  a  truth  quietly  spoken  carries  its  own 
weight,  and  we  must  go  about  our  business  quietly  and  earnestly  with 
"the  warning  voice,  every  man  to  his  neighbor,  in  mildness  and  in  meek- 
ness," (Doctrine  and  Covenants,  38:41),  proclaiming  that  which  we 
know  to  be  true,  with  tactfulness,  with  plainness,  and  with  unceasing 
diligence  on  all  occasions. 

If  you  can  imagine  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  littered  with  extrava- 
gant adjectives,  you  know  what  I  mean.  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart, 
for  they  shall  see  God" — "Blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall  inherit 
the  earth."  What  could  add  to  such  conclusive  statements  ?  So,  without 
any  adjectives,  I  wish  to  add  my  testimony  to  yours  that  I  know  that  God 
lives ;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  that  Joseph  Smith  and  all  of  his  successors 
have  been  the  representatives  of  God  our  Father  on  the  earth  in  this 
dispensation — and  that  all  men  may  come  to  that  knowledge,  and  that  we 
who  have  it  may  walk  in  harmony  with  it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  "Thy  Word  is  a  Lantern" — Purcell. 
Elder  Paul  C.  Child,  President  of  the  Pioneer  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  119 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday,  October 
5,  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity.  An 
overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of 
the  Tabernacle,  and  a  great  many  other  people  assembled  on  the  grounds, 
where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed,  they 
were  able  to  listen  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference  as  broadcast 
from  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session — J. 
Spencer  Cornwall,  director.    Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  time  has  arrived  for  the  opening  of  this  the  last  session  of  this 
the  112th  Semi- Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

An  overflow  meeting  is  now  being  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  two_ 
of  the  brethren  are  there  presiding. 

The  exercises  as  rendered  here  and  the  sermons  given  will  be  given 
there  over  the  radio. 

Those  who  are  standing  and  desire  seats  may  find  them  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  President  Grant,  his 
Counselors,  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the 
Twelve,  six  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  all  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 

The  Choir  sang,  "Prayer  of  Thanksgiving." 

Elder  H.  Clay  Cummings,  President  of  the  Wasatch  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang,  "Lost  in  the  Night"— Christiansen. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  SUSTAINED 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  who  were  sustained 
by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  congregation,  as  follows: 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5 


Third  Day 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

Richard  R.  Lyman  Harold  B.  Lee 

ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  THE  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

ASSISTANTS  TO  THE  TWELVE 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

THE  FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  121 
GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

SEMINARY  SUPERVISORS 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

John  H.  Taylor 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Donna  D.  Sorensen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Green  Hinckley,  Superintendent 
Adele  Cannon  Howells,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Janet  Murdoch  Thompson,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  have  been  wonderfully  thrilled  by  the 
spirit  of  this  Conference.  We  have  had  a  most  excellent  time.  I  feel 
personally  as  if  I  had  been  fed  on  the  bread  of  life  for  three  days  here 
while  this  great  congress  of  the  Church  has  been  in  session.  That  is  a 
good  thought  I  take  it — congress. 

I  feel  that  we  have  been  greatly  blessed  in  the  Conference.  We 
have  been  thrilled  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  The  more  I  have  listened  to 
their  fine  work  the  better  pleased  I  have  been. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


123 


THE  VALUE  OF  GOOD  LEADERSHIP 

This  thought  has  been  in  my  mind  while  listening  to  the  Choir: 
What  would  we  do  without  this  addition  to  our  service  ?  And  what  would 
we  do  without  the  help  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church? 
Leadership  is  what  we  need,  and  we  have  leadership  in  this  dispensation 
of  the  Lord ;  there  is  leadership  everywhere.  It  only  remains  to  be 
sought  out,  and  that  too  by  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  There 
has  been  leadership  in  every  dispensation  of  the  Church,  and  the  finest 
kind  of  leadership.  Good  leadership  means  effective  work ;  poor  leader- 
ship means  poor  work.  That  is  a  rule  that  will  always  be  in  force. 

ENOCH  CALLED  TO  A  GREAT  WORK 

I  take  it,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Church  is  well  satisfied  with 
its  present  leadership,  including  the  addition  of  the  new  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

There  was  leadership  in  the  days  of  the  antediluvians  from  Adam 
down  to  Noah.  It  is  not  very  much  enlarged  upon  in  the  Scriptures,  but 
there  was  good  leadership  there.  The  Lord  spoke  to  Enoch  and  said  to 
him :  "Go  unto  this  people  and  call  upon  them  to  repent  from  their  sins, 
or  they  will  be  destroyed."  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  fell  upon  Enoch,  and 
he  was  called  upon  to  do  a  great  work,  but  he  endeavored  to  get  the  Lord 
to  excuse  him  because  he  was  of  a  stammering  tongue.  The  Lord  com- 
manded him  to  go  and  he  would  be  prospered,  and  he  did  a  great  work. 

I  have  a  few  items  here  in  respect  to  Enoch.  It  says : 

The  fear  of  the  Lord  was  upon  all  nations,  so  great  was  the 
glory  of  the  Lord,  which  was  upon  the  people.  And  the  Lord  blessed 
the  land,  and  they  were  blessed  upon  the  mountains,  and  upon  the 
high  places,  and  did  flourish. 

And  the  Lord  called  His  people  Zion,  because  they  were  of  one 
heart  and  one  mind,  and  dwelt  in  righteousness;  and  there  were  no 
poor  among  them. 

It  was  an  ideal  condition.  So  great  was  their  righteousness  that 
they  were  finally  caught  up  into  heaven. 

And  Enoch  continued  his  preaching  in  righteousness  unto  the 
people  of  God.  And  it  came  to  pass  in  his  days,  that  he  built  a  city  that 
was  called  the  City  of  Holiness,  even  Zion. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  Enoch  talked  with  the  Lord;  and  he  said 
unto  the  Lord:  Surely  Zion  shall  dwell  in  safety  forever.  But  the 
Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  Zion  have  I  blessed,  but  the  residue  of  the 
people  have  I  cursed. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  showed  unto  Enoch  all  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth;  and  he  beheld,  and  lo,  Zion,  in  process  of  time, 
was  taken  up  into  heaven.  And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch;  Behold 
mine  abode  forever. 

You  can  see  by  this  that  Enoch  accomplished  a  great  work.  At  one 
time  the  Lord  said  unto  him :  "Enoch,  walk  with  me."  An  invitation 
from  the  Lord  to  His  servant  to  walk  with  Him.  Enoch  must  have  felt 
very  much  complimented  by  this  invitation. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Dag 

THE  LORD'S  PROMISE  TO  ENOCH 

And  there  is  just  a  little  more  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  if  you 
are  not  getting  tired.  Perhaps  it  will  rest  you  if  I  speak  rapidly : 

And  Enoch  beheld  the  Son  of  Man  ascend  up  unto  the  Father;  and 
he  called  unto  the  Lord,  saying:  Wilt  thou  not  come  again  upon  the 
earth?  Forasmuch  as  thou  art  God,  and  I  know  thee,  and  thou  hast 
sworn  unto  me,  and  commanded  me  that  I  should  ask  in  the  name  of 
thine  Only  Begotten;  thou  hast  made  me,  and  given  unto  me  a  right  to 
thy  throne,  and  not  of  myself,  but  through  thine  own  grace;  where- 
fore I  ask  thee,  if  thou  wilt  not  come  again  on  the  earth. 

A  very  pertinent  question. 

And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  As  I  live,  even  so  will  I  come  in 
the  last  days,  in  the  days  of  wickedness  and  vengeance,  to  fulfil  the  oath 
which  I  have  made  unto  you  concerning  the  children  of  Noah; 

And  the  day  shall  come  that  the  earth  shall  rest,  but  before  that 
day  the  heavens  shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil  of  darkness  shall  cover 
the  earth;  and  the  heavens  shall  shake,  and  also  the  earth;  and  great 
tribulations  shall  be  among  the  children  of  men,  but  my  people  will  I 
preserve. 

*  *  * 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  Enoch  saw  the  day  of  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man,  in  the  last  days,  to  dwell  on  the  earth  in  righteousness  for 
the  space  of  a  thousand  years; 

But  before  that  day  he  saw  great  tribulations  among  the  wicked; 
he  also  saw  the  sea,  that  it  was  troubled,  and  men's  hearts  failing  them, 
looking  forth  with  fear  for  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty  God,  which 
should  come  upon  the  wicked.  , 

And  the  Lord  showed  Enoch  all  things,  even  unto  the  end  of  the 
world;  and  he  saw  the  day  of  the  righteous,  the  hour  of  their  redemp- 
tion; and  received  a  fulness  of  joy. 

These  wonderful  words  are  found  in  the  seventh  chapter  of  the 
Book  of  Moses  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  It  gives  us  the  wonderful 
truth  of  the  consummation  of  the  promises  of  the  Savior  to  return  to 
the  earth  in  the  latter  days,  and  'we  can  depend  upon  it  because  the 
announcement  was  made  by  the  Lord  Himself  that  He  would  return. 
So  we  have  that  assurance,  and  we  have  the  further  assurance  of  a 
millennium,  a  thousand  years  of  peace  and  righteousness.  So  we  can  be 
sure  that  these  prophecies  will  be  fulfilled.  Whenever  the  Lord  speaks 
it  is  to  our  interest  to  give  attention  and  to  receive  His  words,  for  we 
know  that  His  words  never  fail.  If  He  makes  a  promise  He  keeps 
the  promise,  but  it  is  not  always  so  with  man. 

I  rejoice  in  standing  before  you.  I  am  thankful  for  my  membership 
in  the  Church,  for  the  opportunity  to  give  service.  From  my  heart  and 
soul  I  pray  that  His  peace  and  blessing  may  rest  upon  the  members  of 
the  Church  in  every  land  and  clime,  in  the  worthy  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


125 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  My  heart  has  been  stirred  with  deep 
gratitude  for  the  teaching  and  testimonies  of  my  brethren  during  this 
Conference,  and  for  my  membership  in  this  Church  and  my  association 
with  you  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  EARTH  BEING  PREPARED  FOR  THE  COMING  OF  CHRIST 

It  has  been  made  plain  to  us  today,  as  we  have  been  taught  all  our 
lives,  that  judgment  should  befall  the  nations  until  men's  hearts  should 
fail  them  with  fear,  and  as  Brother  Sonne  pointed  out  yesterday,  quoting 
the  words  of  Brother  Penrose,  that  the  nations  of  this  earth  should 
be  broken  up  like  the  potter's  vessel.  Notwithstanding  these  judgments, 
I  take  it  there  is  little  any  of  us  can  do  about  it  because  the  Lord  is  to 
continue  His  judgments  among  the  nations  until  they  shall  beat  their 
swords  into  plough-shares  and  their  spears  into  pruning-hooks,  and  learn 
war  no  more. 

Inasmuch  as  we  can  do  little  about  this,  we  should  be  more  concerned 
with  the  opposite  force  that  is  operating  in  the  earth.  We  are  not  un- 
mindful of  the  message  of  Mormonism  to  the  world,  that  He  has  sent 
His  messenger  to  prepare  the  way  of  His  coming,  and  He  shall  come 
quickly  to  His  Temple,  and  He  shall  come  cleansing  and  purifying  as 
refiner's  fire  and  fuller's  soap.  And  so  the  thing  that  should  concern  us 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  if  we  are  in  harmony  with  His  great  plan  of 
preparation,  is  to  prepare  for  His  coming. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  from  the  50th  Psalm,  as  I  think  David 
saw  this  relating  to  our  day  and  the  great  work  that  should  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men : 

The  mighty  God,  even  the  Lord,  hath  spoken,  and  called  the  earth 
from  the  rising  of  the  sun  unto  the  going  down  thereof." 

Your  missionary  boys  have  been  called  into  the  earth  from  the 
rising  of  the  sun  unto  the  going  down  thereof,  declaring  that  the  mighty 
God  hath  spoken. 

Out  of  Zion,  the  perfection  of  beauty,  God  hath  shined. 

And  how  has  He  shined  out  of  Zion,  the  perfection  of  beauty?  By 
sending  forth  His  ambassadors  of  eternal  truth  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  to  bear  witness  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

Our  God  shall  come,  and  shall  not  keep  silence;  a  fire  shall  devour 
before  Him,  and  it  shall  be  very  tempestuous  round  about  Him. 

He  shall  call  to  the  heavens  from  above,  and  to  the  earth,  that  He 
may  judge  His  people. 

Gather  my  Saints  together  unto  me;  those  that  have  made  a  cove- 
nant with  me  by  sacrifice. 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

SACRIFICE  REQUIRED  OF  ALL  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Not  only  were  our  pioneer  fathers  and  mothers  required  to  sacrifice 
in  order  that  they  might  prove  themselves  worthy  to  stand  among  the 
Saints  of  God  who  are  to  be  gathered  in  these  latter  days,  but  we  are 
required  to  make  sacrifices  also.  We  may  not  be  required  to  forsake  our 
homes  and  go  into  new  lands ;  we  may  not  be  required  to  lay  our  loved 
ones  away  by  the  side  of  the  road ;  we  may  not  be  driven  out  by  friends  and 
ridiculed  and  reviled,  but  the  Lord  nevertheless  expects  sacrifices  at  our 
hands.  And  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  think  the  Lord  does  not  let  such 
sacrifices  go  unrewarded. 

FAITH  SHOWN  BY  THE  MOTHER  OF  JESSE  KNIGHT 

Some  of  you  will  have  read  with  interest  the  book  recently  published 
by  J.  Will  Knight  on  the  Knight  Family,  and  I  find  there  an  incident  that 
appealed  to  me  as  a  reward  of  sacrifice.  If  you  have  read  it,  you  will 
recall  that  Brother  Jesse  Knight's  mother  had  been  married  before  she 
married  Jesse's  father,  and  after  becoming  a  widow  and  burying  two 
children,  she  gathered  with  the  Saints  in  Kirtland;  and  as  she  arrived 
there,  the  brethren  were  around  trying  to  gather  contributions  from  the 
scanty  means  of  the  Saints  in  order  to  be  able  to  liberate  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  Sister  Knight  turned  her  purse  upside  down  and  gave  them 
all  she  had ;  I  think  some  fifty  dollars.  The  Lord  of  Israel  and  the  angels 
in  heaven  could  not  overlook  a  sacrifice  of  that  kind.  She  later  married 
Jesse's  father,  and  raised  a  family.  Then  her  husband  died  and  she  moved 
to  St.  George.  When  she  came  to  visit  Jesse  on  one  occasion,  she  failed  to 
say  anything  to  him  about  becoming  active  in  the  Church.  For  many 
years  Jesse  had  done  very  little,  and  finally,  when  she  was  about  to  return, 
he  said : 

"Mother,  how  is  it  you  are  not  preaching  to  me  as  you  usually  do  ?" 

She  answered :  "Jesse,  I  have  prayed  in  the  Temple  for  my  children 
many  times,  and  on  one  occasion  the  Lord  made  known  to  me  that  I  was 
not  to  worry  about  you  any  more,  that  you  would  one  day  understand  for 
yourself — and  I  never  intend  to  argue  again  with  you  about  religion." 

And  you  know  how  literally  this  promise  was  fulfilled,  for  soon  after 
Jesse  did  understand,  and  he  rendered  a  great  service  to  the  Church. 

MANIFESTATIONS  OF  FAITH  AMONG  THE  SAINTS 

There  is  hardly  a  family  among  the  Saints  but  what  could  testify 
of  the  sacrifices  that  have  been  made  for  the  Gospel  in  this  last  dispensa- 
tion. I  remember  working  with  a  young  man  before  I  went  on  my 
first  mission.  He  had  been  driven  from  his  home,  and  his  young  wife  had 
deserted  him  because  as  he  was  passing  a  street  corner  one  evening  in  an 
eastern  city,  on  his  way  home  from  work,  he  stopped  at  a  street  meeting 
and  listened  to  the  testimonies  of  our  missionaries,  and  their  explanation 
of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  which  he  explained  pierced  his  heart  like 
a  two-edge  sword.  He  joined  the  Church  and  his  people  cast  him  out. 
I  was  with  him  when  he  received  a  telegram  announcing  the  birth  of  his 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


127 


child.  He  did  not  have  the  spirit  of  hardness  or  retaliation.  He  said, 
with  feelings  of  emotion  and  tears  in  his  eyes :  "The  only  desire  I  have 
in  my  soul  is  some  day  to  stand  on  that  same  street  corner  and  proclaim 
to  the  people  of  my  own  town  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ." 

We  may  not  have  to  make  such  sacrifices  as  have  been  made  in  years 
gone  by,  but  as  I  travel  through  the  Church  and  witness  the  marvelous 
manifestations  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  feel  impressed  that 
the  Lord  truly  has  gathered  His  Saints  who  have  made  a  covenant  with 
Him  by  sacrifice.  In  all  the  Auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church  we  see 
how  people  give  of  their  time  and  their  talents  for  the  building  up 
of  the  Kingdom.  Right  here,  we  witness  the  sacrifice  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  members  to  carry  on  their  great  work.  We  just  presented  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  pageant,  and  in  its  preparation  there  were  those, 
such  as  Sister  Evelyn  Wood  and  Brother  Lee  A.  Palmer,  who  worked 
through  two  nights  without  any  sleep ;  the  boys  came  night  after  nighty 
to  practice.  We  enjoy  what  is  going  on  but  we  little  realize  the  sacrifice 
back  of  it  all.  We  sat  here  and  listened  to  a  wonderful  quartette  of  our 
brethren  from  Southern  California,  and  I  am  sure  they  paid  their  own 
transportation  to  come  here  and  sing  for  us.  The  sacrifices  made  for 
missionary  and  Temple  work  are  marvelous.  There  is  a  spirit  of  sacrifice 
in  the  heart  of  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  been  touched  with 
the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  by  which  this  work  is  moving 
onward  in  the  world. 

PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD  TO  THOSE  WHO  SERVE  HIM 

We  often  have  quoted  to  us  the  third  chapter  of  Malachi,  which  I 
feel  relates  to  this  people  in  our  day  and  time,  when  the  Lord  was  to 
send  His  messenger  and  prepare  the  way  for  His  coming.  Then  He 
indicates  that  from  their  fathers'  days  they  had  departed  from  Him,  and 
they  asked  how,  and  he  said:  "In  payment  of  your  tithes  and  offerings. 
Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse,  for  ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole 
nation,"  meaning  the  nation  of  Israel. 

Then  He  promises  to  pour  out  the  blessings  of  heaven  upon  them 
if  they  will  return  unto  Him,  and  we  usually  stop  at  about  that  point. 
I  desire  to  read  the  latter  part  of  that  chapter,  commencing  with  the  13th 
verse : 

Your  words  have  been  stout  against  me,  saith  the  Lord.  Yet  ye 
say,  What  have  we  spoken  so  much  against  thee? 
Ye  have  said,  It  is  vain  to  serve  God. 

Have  you  ever  heard  such  a  conversation  in  the  midst  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints? 

And  what  profit  is  it  that  we  have  kept  His  ordinance,  and  that 
we  have  walked  mournfully  before  the  Lord  of  hosts? 

And  now  we  call  the  proud  happy;  yea,  they  that  work  wickedness 
are  set  up;  yea,  they  that  tempt  God  are  even  delivered. 

We  often  hear  people  remark  that  the  wicked  are  blessed  even  above 
many  of  the  faithful  Saints,  and  that  is  what  Malachi  of  old  heard. 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

Then  they  that  feared  the  Lord  spake  often  one  to  another;  and 
the  Lord  hearkened,  and  heard  it,  and  a  book  of  remembrance  was 
written  before  Him  for  them  that  feared  the  Lord,  and  that  thought 
upon  his  name. 

And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  in  that  day 
When  I  make  up  my  jewels;  and  I  will  spare  them,  as  a  man  spareth 
his  own  son  that  serveth  him. 

Then  shall  ye  return,  and  discern  between  the  righteous  and  the 
wicked,  between  him  that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth  him  not. 

Those  of  us  who  have  labored  in  different  parts  of  the  Church  and 
have  faith  in  the  promises  of  the  prophets  have,  I  am  sure,  deep  down  in 
our  souls  a  desire  that  when  the  God  of  Israel  fulfills  this  promise, 
when  He  makes  up  His  book  of  remembrance,  when  He  writes  therein 
the  names  of  His  jewels,  we  wish  to  see  recorded  therein  the  names  of 
those  whom  we  loved  and  among  whom  we  have  labored. 

EVIDENCES  OF  FAITH  SEEN  AMONG  THE  PEOPLE 

I  think  back  to  the  time  when  I  labored  as  a  missionary  as  a  young 
man  in  Holland,  to  the  kindness  of  those  Dutch  people,  and  their  faith- 
fulness in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord ;  I  am  sure  that  if  it 
shall  ever  by  my  privilege  to  enter  into  His  presence,  where  the  book  of 
remembrance  shall  be  opened  and  His  jewels  shall  be  remembered,  I 
would  not  be  happy  if  my  Dutch  friends  were  not  there.  And  I  feel 
the  same  about  the  Saints  among  whom  I  have  labored  as  a  Bishop  in 
three  different  Wards,  and  as  a  President  of  a  Stake  in  California,  and 
the  good  Southern  Saints  in  the  South  where  I  had  the  privilege  to 
preside. 

As  I  travel  through  the  Stakes  of  Zion  and  see  the  people  come 
from  great  distances,  to  listen  to  the  representatives  of  the  General 
Authorities  who  are  sent  unto  them,  I  feel  to  say,  God  bless  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  They  truly  are  evidencing  their  faith  in  God  and  in  His  great 
Latter-day  work  by  the  sacrifices  they  are  willing  to  make. 

Some  years  ago  I  heard  President  Grant  from  this  pulpit  in  a  Priest- 
hood meeting  promise  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  if  they  would  pay  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings,  the  Lord  would  bless  them  with  increased 
power  and  leadership  in  their  own  families.  I  was  in  a  Stake  of  Zion 
a  few  weeks  ago  where  a  Bishop  was  released  after  a  service  of  twenty- 
three  years,  and  when  we  called  him  to  speak,  he  told  the  great  joy  he 
had  had  in  witnessing  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  members  of 
his  Ward  because  of  their  faithfulness.  He  told  of  one  brother  and 
sister  who  had  paid  their  tithing  conscientiously  and  regularly  for  all 
those  years,  and  he  said  they  have  a  posterity  of  some  eighty-odd  and 
there  is  not  one  but  pays  his  tithing  and  keeps  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

INSTANCES  RELATED  OF  FAITHFUL  TITHE-PAYERS 

When  I  was  president  of  the  Rotterdam  Branch  in  Holland  many 
years  ago,  a  sister  came  to  me  after  the  meeting  one  Sunday  morning, 
and  said:  "Brother  Richards,  I  have  only  earned  a  quarter  this  week. 
(That  is  ten  cents  American  money).    Should  I  pay  tithing  on  it?" 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


129 


I  looked  at  her  for  a  minute,  and  then  said :  "Sister,  if  this  were  my 
Church,  I  would  not  take  your  tithing.  But  it  is  not  my  Church,  it  is 
the  Lord's  Church,  and  tithing  is  a  principle  upon  which  blessings  of  the 
Lord  are  predicated;  and  sister,  if  you  have  only  earned  twenty-five 
cents  this  week,  I  surely  do  think  you  need  a  blessing,  so  I  would  advise 
you  to  pay  your  tithing  and  be  blesssed."  And  I  wrote  her  a  receipt  for 
two  and  a  half  cents.  (We  happened  to  have  a  coin  of  that  denomination 
in  Holland).  She  later  emigrated  to  Utah  and  raised  a  fine  family. 

Many  of  those  people  lived  under  very  meager  circumstances,  and 
could  not  save  anything  from  week  to  week.  And  when  we  brought  them 
the  Gospel,  they  would  say,  "You  would  not  expect  us  to  pay  tithing, 
would  you?"  And  I  would  give  them  the  same  answer.  I  have  seen 
family  after  family  emigrate  to  this  land,  own  their  own  homes,  drive 
their  own  automobiles,  educate  their  children,  and  send  their  boys  and 
girls  on  missions.  I  want  to  tell  you  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  has  not  gone 
out  of  this  Church. 

I  stood  on  the  porch  of  a  beautiful  home  in  Idaho  a  few  weeks  ago 
with  160  acres  of  as  fine  irrigated  land  as  I  ever  saw,  surrounding  that 
home,  and  the  good  brother,  a  convert  to  the  Church,  said  to  me :  "My 
wife  said,  'Father,  if  the  Church  asked  for  it,  would  you  give  it  to 
them'  ?"  And  he  straightened  up  and  said,  "I  replied :  'Yes,  mother,  and 
there  would  not  be  a  penny  against  it  either.'  "  Surely  the  Lord  has  been 
gathering  His  Saints  together  unto  Him,  those  who  have  made  a  covenant 
with  Him  by  sacrifice. 

CLOSING  TESTIMONY  AND  BLESSING 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  This  is  His  work,  and  He  is  busy  preparing  the  way  for  His 
coming.  It  is  important  that  we  harmonize  our  lives  with  His  great 
program  of  preparation,  and  when  the  voice  of  the  Lord  comes  unto  us 
that  we  heed  it  and  that  we  follow  the  leadership  of  those  who  are  sent 
to  guide  us  in  the  way  of  eternal  truth.  May  the  Lord  bless  every  man 
and  woman  in  this  Church  for  their  sacrifices  for  the  building  up  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Abide  With  Me"— Monk. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

ACKNOWLEDGING  THE  HAND  OF  THE  LORD  IN  TRIALS 

Many  years  ago,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  became  acquainted  with 
a  teaching  in  the  59th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  to 
avoid  offending  God  we  must  be  willing  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in  all 
things.  That  teaching  came  strongly  to  my  mind  when  we  followed 
the  casket  of  the  mother  of  our  seven  children  to  the  hillside.  It  again 
came  to  my  mind  nearly  two  years  later  when  the  body  of  our  oldest 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

son,  a  fine,  upstanding,  clean  young  man  was  being  lowered  into  the 
grave.  There  came  over  me  at  that  time,  as  I  witnessed  that  lowering, 
one  of  the  most  satisfying  feelings  I  ever  had,  and  these  words :  "The 
boy  is  absolutely  secure." 

I  felt  to  thank  the  Lord  that  that  was  the  case  because  I  had  thai 
same  feeling  with  respect  to  his  mother.  And  more  recently  the  same 
thought  has  come  to  me.  I  stood  the  test  before.  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
with  the  Lord's  help  as  I  have  received  it  in  the  past,  I  shall  stand  it 
again. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  LIVING  OUR  RELIGION 

When  I  heard  two  returned  Mission  Presidents  speak  Saturday 
afternoon,  each  appealing  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  live  their  religion. 
I  felt  that  there  is  no  advice  that  perhaps  is  more  important  than  that. 
I  felt  then  as  I  have  felt  many  years  during  the  past,  that  we  are  under 
an  obligation  to  do  that  very  thing. 

When  we  go  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  when  we  partake  of  the 
Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  when  we  stand  on  our  feet  and  bear 
testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  we  are  thereby  obligated  as 
strongly  as  I  know  how  it  is  possible  to  obligate  a  human  soul  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  But  it  is  not  easy  to  do  this.  The  influence 
of  heredity,  of  environment  and  of  evil  power  that  is  in  the  earth, 
personified  or  headed  by  Satan  himself,  are  all  opposed  to  our  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  To  overcome  all  of  these  we  must 
struggle,  but  may  I  say  that  my  own  belief  is  that  the  Lord  gives  every 
one  of  us  the  strength  to  keep  His  commandments  if  we  will  worthily 
and  earnestly  seek  His  help  that  we  may  do  it. 

We  are  faced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  those  of  us  who  stand  here  in 
the  pulpit  with  a  very  heavy  responsibility.  You  have  come  from  far  and 
wide;  you  have  come  to  be  spiritually  fed;  you  have  come  up  to  be 
strengthened  and  instructed.  Out  of  all  the  many  timely  questions  and 
problems  which  face  us,  which  shall  we  talk  about?  It  has  been  my 
custom  to  think  of  this  matter  days  before  the  Conference  opens  and  try 
to  get  if  I  can  some  help  in  suggestion.  I  have  done  that  same  thing 
for  this  occasion,  and  I  have  committed  to  writing  some  notes  that  I  will 
read  in  part,  if  not  in  all.  The  time  is  very  short. 

In  the  time  allotted  to  me  today  I  purpose  speaking  of  a  very  live 
issue  that  is  disturbing  all  liberty-loving  Americans,  none  more  than 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  an  issue  that  many  fear  to  discuss  publicly, 
especially  the  politicians. 

PRACTICAL  RELIGION  THE  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD 

It  is  trite  to  speak  of  the  world-wide  troublous  times  now  existing 
and  of  the  chaotic  conditions  that  prevail  everywhere.  These  matters 
furnish  themes  that  are  discussed  in  religious  meetings  perhaps  more 
frequently  than  in  other  ordinary  types  of  assemblies.  This  is  true  for 
the  reason,  probably,  that  more  and  more  thoughtful  people  are  coming 
to  believe  that  a  cure  for  the  ills  of  this  troubled  world  will  be  found,  if 
it  is  found  at  all,  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  131 

In  this  view  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  unit.  Their  religion  is  a 
very  practical  religion — the  one  taught  by  the  Master.  In  the  25th 
chapter  of  Matthew  we  find  a  beautiful  parable,  the  closing  words  of 
which  are  as  follows : 

Then  shall  the  righteous  answer  him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we 
thee  and  hungred,  and  fed  thee?  or  thirsty,  and  gave  thee  drink?  When 
saw  we  thee  a  stranger  and  took  thee  in?  or  naked  and  clothed  thee? 
or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say  unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto 
you,  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me. 

THE  VALUE  OF  LIBERTY 

A  notable  application  of  this  doctrine  of  the  Master  is  found  in  the 
Welfare  Program  of  the  Church.  But  the  doctrine  of  service  is  not 
limited  in  its  applications  to  the  primary  necessities  of  life — food,  shelter 
and  clothing.  There  are  things  of  greater  value  than  these  and  things 
for  which  men  have  given  their  lives  all  down  through  the  ages.  Liberty 
is  one  of  these,  national  liberty  and  personal  liberty,  the  liberty  to  talk, 
to  work,  to  worship  and  to  exercise  our  God-given  free  agencies,  so 
long  as  we  do  not  infringe  upon  similar  rights  of  others. 

We  live  in  America,  in  a  nation  whose  founders  declared  to  all  the 
world  that  "we  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident  that  all  men  are 
created  equal,  that  they  are  edowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  in- 
alienable rights,  that  among  these  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of 
happiness; — That  to  secure  these  rights  governments  are  instituted 
among  men,  deriving  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the  governed." 
You  recognize,  of  course,  that  these  statements  are  quoted  from  the 
Declaration  of  Independence. 

To  secure  these  rights  the  colonists  fought  the  War  of  Independence 
through  8  years  of  blood,  tears  and  terrible  sufferings.  To  them  liberty 
was  more  precious  than  life.  For  when  it  was  won  they  would  bequeath 
to  their  descendants  the  priceless  heritage  of  freedom. 

A  few  years  after  winning  the  war  the  founders  of  this  Republic 
published  another  epoch-making  document  from  which  I  quote  the  fol- 
lowing : 

We  the  people  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  form  a  more 
perfect  union,  establish  justice,  insure  domestic  tranquility,  provide  for 
the  common  defense,  promote  the  general  welfare,  and  secure  the 
blessings  of  liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  posterity,  do  ordain  and  estab- 
lish this  Constitution  for  the  United  States  of  America. 

The  Constitution  thus  spoken  of  consisted  of  seven  Articles  and 
became  the  supreme  law  of  the  land  in  1788.  Soon  a  Bill  of  Rights  in 
the  form  of  ten  Amendments  to  the  Constitution  was  proposed  by  Con- 
gress in  1789  and  become  a  part  of  this  great  document  two  years  later. 

The  first  of  these  ten  amendments  is  as  follows : 

Congress  shall  make  no  law  respecting  an  establishment  of 
religion,  or  prohibiting  the  free  exercise  thereof;  or  abridging  the 


\ 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

freedom  of  speech,  or  of  the  press;  or  the  right  of  the  people  peaceably 
to  assemble  and  to  petition  the  Government  for  a  redress  of  griev- 
ences. 

Thus  by  action  of  the  people  two  history-making  documents  publi- 
cised to  all  the  world  the  fact  that  in  America  was  founded  a  nation, 
the  purpose  of  which  was  to  secure  to  every  citizen  the  inalienable  right 
to  "life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  Hence  our  government 
exists  for  the  individual  rather  than  the  individual  for  the  government. 
To  this  concept  of  the  purpose  of  government,  totalitarianism  is  diamet- 
rically opposed,  for  it  asserts  that  the  individual  exists  for  the  State. 
Personal  liberty  is,  therefore,  non-existent  in  a  totalitarian  State. 

But  between  principle  and  practice  there  is  frequently  a  wide  gulf. 
It  was  because  of  their  religion  that  the  Mormons  suffered  violent 
persecution,  and  were  finally  driven  from  the  boundaries  of  civilization 
— f  rom  the  settled  areas  of  a  land  that  guaranteed  religious  liberty.  And 
this  was  in  America,  the  only  country  in  all  the  world  in  which,  at  the 
time,  religious  liberty  was  guaranteed  by  the  fundamental  law  of  the 
land.  But  the  Mormons  might  have  said  as  did  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
"Father  forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do."  The  coming 
of  the  Mormons  to  the  arid  wilderness  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  proved  to 
be  not  only  a  great  blessing  for  them  but  for  the  nation  also. 

I  speak  of  these  things  only  in  passing.  They  presented  problems 
that  were  successfully  solved  by  the  settlers  of  these  arid  regions.  We  are 
faced  today  with  many  other  weighty  problems,  the  solution  of  which 
prevailed  then.  There  are  many  dangers  that  threaten  our  inherited 
liberties,  both  those  of  the  country  and  those  of  the  individual  citizen. 
Indeed,  as  I  see  it,  this  country  has  never  faced  a  darker  situation.  This 
is  due  to  many  factors,  one  of  which  I  shall  discuss  briefly. 

THE  "CLOSED  SHOP"  A  MENACE  TO  LIBERTY 

The  very  foundations  upon  which  this  country  has  been  builded  to 
become  great  and  mighty  are  gravely  threatened  and  her  basic  principles 
of  personal  liberty  are  fast  fading  away.  Time  will  permit  of  mentioning 
only  one  of  these.  But  it  is  the  most  basic  of  all,  the  one  emphasized  in 
the  Declaration  of  Independence — "The  right  to  life,  liberty  and  the 
pursuit  of  happiness."  When  we  deny  an  able-bodied  man  "the  right 
to  work"  we  rob  him  of  his  independence  and  destroy  his  happiness. 
It  is  this  denial  that  faces  myriads  of  willing  workers  in  America  today, 
because  a  new  tyranny — one  never  dreamed  of  by  the  founders — has 
arisen,  that  of  "the  closed  shop"  including  the  check-off  system. 

PROFESSOR  DOUGLAS  JOHNSON'S  VIEWS 

Discussing  this  new  tyranny  Professor  Douglas  Johnson  of  Colum- 
bia University  says — and  I  summarize  a  few  of  his  paragraphs— that 
he  was  born  when  every  American  was  a  free  man — free  to  work  when, 
where,  and  how  he  pleased.  Were  he  born  in  this  age  of  bureaucratic 
control  of  industry  and  Union  tyranny  over'  labor,  he  would  not  be 
employed  at  the  factory  unless  he  joined  the  Union.    He  would  not  be 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


133 


admitted  to  the  Union  unless  a  shortage  of  labor  appeared  in  prospect. 
But  if  admitted  he  would  have  to  pay  from  $50  to  $200  or  more  in  initia- 
tion fees  in  addition  to  dues  and  special  assessments.  The  money  for 
these  payments  he  would  never  see,  for  it  would  be  deducted  from  his 
pay  before  he  would  receive  it. 

Once  on  the  job  he  would  likely  be  told  to  go  slow  "for  we're  not 
going  to  work  our  heads  off."  If  a  fellow  workman  should  be  dis- 
charged for  negligence  and  laziness  a  strike  would  be  called  demanding 
his  reinstatement  on  the  spurious  plea  that  he  was  let  out  for  Union 
activities — a  violation  of  the  law.  If  a  worker  refused  to  strike,  believing 
the  discharge  was  merited  and  attempted  to  continue  work,  he  would  be 
in  danger  of  being  severely  handled  and  beaten,  his  car  wrecked,  his 
home  picketed,  etc.  No  protection  for  him  would  come  from  the  sheriff, 
and  the  governor  of  the  State  would  not  order  out  the  militia  to  stop  mass 
picketing  for  fear  of  bloodshed. 

Prof.  Johnson  goes  on  to  say  (I  have  omitted  many  of  the  details) 
this  is  not  a  mad  dream  but  a  calm  statement  of  what  has  been  happening, 
day  after  day,  some  of  it  here,  some  there,  to  countless  American  citizens 
— happening  to  honest  family-loving,  God-fearing  American  laboring 
men. 

He  asserts  that  a  vast  majority  of  our  laboring  men  are  outside  of 
Unions.  A  vast  majority  of  those  inside  are  decent,  honest,  law-abiding 
citizens.  Most  of  those  inside  and  outside  of  Unions  are  liberty-loving. 
But  all  of  them  are  held  under  a  tyranny  utterly  un-Amercan  both  in 
its  origins  and  in  its  effects.  It  is  a  tyranny  which  denies  to  American 
workers  their  most  fundamental  rights,  limits  their  freedom,  stifles 
their  initiative,  checks  their  energies  and  holds  them  down  to  the  low 
level  of  their  less  competent  and  less  diligent  fellows.  It  is  a  tyranny 
which  preserves  the  right  to  strike  (which  nobody  opposes  in  normal 
times)  while  denying  to  the  many  the  "right  to  work."  It  places  moderately 
paid  workers  at  the  mercy  of  highly  paid  agitators.  Most  of  all  it  saps 
the  independence  of  the  worker,  dampens  his  ambition  and  shuts  for 
him  the  door  of  hope  of  a  better  future,  lock-stepping  him  with  indolent, 
less-competent  and  less  ambitious  associates. 

Thus  while  the  American  laborer  has  gained  much  from  the  Union 
movement,  which  no  one  would  wish  to  see  him  lose,  he  has  also  lost 
much  which  Prof.  Johnson  indicates  but  which  I  shall  not  consider  here. 

In  the  foregoing  I  have  summarized  a  part  of  Dr.  Johnson's  article. 
He  illustrated  his  statements  by  a  number  of  specific  examples  the 
mention  of  which  I  omit.  We  all  know  the  situation,  at  least  in  a  general 
way,  and  we  know  it  is  rapidly  becoming  worse,  and  that  the  "closed 
shop"  system  is  rapidly  spreading.  This  is  a  system  of  force  that  places 
plants  and  institutions  employing  labor  in  the  hands  of  selfish,  irrespon- 
sible labor  leaders,  agitators  and  organizers  who  force  owners,  manage- 
ments, laborers,  the  public  and  even  government  officials  to  do  their 
unrighteous  bidding.  Thus  freedom  is  crushed  and  the  guarantees  of 
our  inspired  Constitution  are  thrown  to  the  winds.  Where  the  "closed 
shop"  comes  in  freedom  goes  out,  and  the  inalienable  right  to  "life, 
liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness"  vanishes. 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

Now  of  one  thing  I  feel  sure.  The  vast  majority  of  the  patriotic 
liberty-loving  people  of  America  want  the  guarantees  of  our  inspired 
Constitution  maintained.  They  want  this  choice  land  still  to  be  and  to 
remain  the  "land  of  the  free  and  the  home  of  the  brave." 

I  have  presented  briefly  and  inadequately  only  one  aspect  of  the 
gravely  threatening  situation.  I  hasten  to  say  that  the  "closed  shop" 
did  not  arise  from  nothing.  It  is  seemingly  the  natural  end  result  of  many 
contributing  factors.  Capital  and  management  are  far  from  blameless 
in  their  treatment  of  labor  and  the  public.  Iniquitous  ambition,  un- 
restrained selfishness,  rank  injustice,  severe  oppression  and  cruel  wrong 
have  characterized  both  sides  of  the  relations  of  capital  and  labor.  "The 
pot  cannot  call  the  kettle  black."  But  many  laws  have  been  passed  to 
control  capital  and  management.  None  has  yet  been  passed  to  control 
labor,  strange  to  say.  What  then  is  needed  if  liberty  and  right  are  to 
be  preserved?  Action,  and  still  more  action.  The  Lord  helps  those 
engaged  in  a  good  cause. 

THE  RIGHTS  OF  CAPITAL  AND  LABOR  CALL  FOR  UNITY 

Obviously  both  capital  and  labor  should  be  controlled  in  the  interest 
of  the  public  welfare  and  human  freedom,  which  certainly  includes  the 
"right  to  work."  To  secure  this  right  why  not  let  every  one  opposed  to 
the  tyranny  and  evils  of  the  "closed  shop"  join  a  right-to-work  league 
which  shall  secure  through  suitable  legislative  action  an  opening  of  the 
gates  of  opportunity  to  every  one  who  is  able  and  willing  to  work,  inde- 
pendent of  membership  in  any  labor  union  or  other  organization.  In  other 
words,  let  us  unite  without  delay  to  secure  the  laws  and  regulations  neces- 
sary to  insure  to  every  worker  the  "right  to  work"  without  which  the 
noble  declaration  that  each  of  us  has  the  inalienable  right  to  life,  liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  happiness  becomes  an  idle  mockery. 

But  a  far  better,  much  quicker,  more  desirable  and  vastly  simpler 
plan  is,  under  existing  conditions,  apparently  in  the  realm  of  the  ideal 
and  therefore  it  must  await  the  coming  of  better  days.  I  refer  to  the 
Golden  Rule  plan. 

There  is  a  disagreement  between  employer  and  employee.  In  the 
light  of  Christ's  teachings  what  is  the  right  thing  to  do  ?  Obviously  these 
two  parties  should  sit  down  and  talk  things  over,  each  strongly  motivated 
to  treat  the  other  as  he  would  like  to  be  treated,  if  all  the  circumstances 
were  reversed.  Let  each  one  try  hard  to  put  himself  in  the  other's  shoes. 
To  do  this  each  one  would  have  to  recognize  the  other  as  a  brother,  and 
both  should  keep  in  mind  their  obligations  to  the  public.  Love  and  right, 
not  hate  and  force  must  be  the  means  employed  to  determine  what  is 
fair,  honest,  just  and  humane.  Neither  will  ask  for  nor  expect  anything 
the  Golden  Rule  could  not  award. 

ECONOMIC  PEACE  THROUGH  APPLICATION  OF  THE  GOLDEN  RULE 

If  a  full  sense  of  brotherhood,  actuated  by  the  real  spirit  of  the 
Golden  Rule,  were  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  every  employer  and  of 
every  employe  in  America,  and  of  every  one  else  who  has  any  kind  of 


\ 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


135 


relations  with  his  fellow  men,  then  industrial,  social,  and  economic  peace 
in  America  would  be  born  in  a  day.  But  alas  this  ideal  condition  is  not 
in  the  offing.  Instead  we  are  faced  with  reality  and  a  condition  so  preg- 
nant with  evil  that  we  can  save  ourselves  only  by  immediate,  unceasing, 
wise,  and  powerful  efforts.  The  preservation  of  our  inherited  liberties 
and  of  our  God-given  free  agencies  is  worth  every  thing  necessary  for 
us  to  give  in  order  that  we  might  re-possess  and  maintain  them.  Other- 
wise, will  not  the  America  of  the  future  be  devoid  of  the  essentials  that 
have  made  the  America  we  inherited,  a  land  of  glorious  promise? 

Latter-day  Saints,  is  not  our  beautiful  doctrine  of  eternal  progres- 
sion absolutely  opposed  to  that  of  the  "closed  shop"?  Force  is  the 
weapon  used  to  bring  about  the  "closed  shop."  But  force  when  used  as  a 
weapon  is  Satan's  club  and  therefore  destructive  of  human  rights. 

Let  us  act  before  it  is  too  late.  May  love,  diligence  and  divine 
wisdom  characterize  all  our  efforts  to  preserve  our  liberties  and  faith- 
fully aerve  the  Lord  I  pray  in  the  Master's  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  do  not  think  I  ever  appreciated  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  more 
in  my  life  than  I  do  at  this  time  and  have  done  during  the  past  few  days. 
There  is  a  story  told  of  a  great  king  who  built  a  big  castle  and  stretched 
the  wires  from  tower  to  tower.  The  only  time  the  wires  from  tower  to 
tower  played  a  tune  was  when  the  tempest  came  up.  I  believe  if  there 
ever  is  a  time  when  we  appreciate  the  Gospel  it  is  in  time  of  storm,  it  is 
in  time  of  tempest.  That  is  when  the  Gospel  plays  its  best  tunes — when 
the  storms  rage  the  worst.  May  we  always  hear  the  music. 

GRATITUDE  EXPRESSED  FOR  KINDNESS 

I  would  think  myself  and  ourselves  most  thoughtless  if  we  did  not 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  people  of  the  Church  for  their  kindness 
towards  us.  It  is  strange  that  Brother  Merrill  and  I  should  be  called  upon, 
one  right  after  the  other.  I  certainly  sympathize  with  him  in  the  trial  he  is 
going  through.  From  Hawaii,  Canada,  and  Mexico,  and  every  point  of 
this  Church  has  come  kindness.  Whatever  has  been  our  lot  in  the  way  of 
grief,  if  you  folks  had  your  way,  from  President  Grant  and  his  splendid 
Counselors  down,  you  would  take  up  this  flood  of  sympathy  to  drive  this 
trouble  from  our  hands.  We  do  feel  to  express  thanks  to  you  today. 

LITTLE  CHANGE  IN  HUMAN  NATURE 

I  think  it  is  just  good  sense  that  I  should  say  very  little  on  this  occa- 
sion. I  have  been  impressed  with  one  thing  particularly  in  this  Conference 
and  it  is  that  we  are  emphasizing  fundamentals.  In  a  sense,  I  would  not 
like  to-  be  considered  old-fashioned,  but  remember  there  is  nothing  quite 
so  important,  quite  so  full  of  gold  as  real  fundamentals.  Your  Ford 
has  changed  its  model ;  your  airplane  has  decidedly  changed ;  steam 


\ 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

engines  change,  but  this  human  anatomy  has  not  changed  very  much- — it 
is  pretty  much  the  same  model.  I  agree  that  for  looks  some  of  our  models 
should  be  changed,  but  we  are  pretty  much  the  same.  Once  in  a  while  we 
ought  to  take  a  look  on  the  compass  and  see  where  the  storm  is  taking  us. 
We  must  get  back  on  the  old  track. 

The  other  day  a  good  society  lady — I  say  that  respectfully — called  in 
a  doctor.  The  baby  had  a  terrible  cold  on  its  lungs.  She,  of  course, 
expected  him  to  give  her  some  hifiluting  brand  new  1942  prescription. 
But  he  didn't.  He  said. 

"My  dear,  if  I  were  you,  I  would  put  a  mustard  plaster  on  that  child 
just  as  quickly  as  you  possibly  can." 

"But,"  she  said,  "doctor,  isn't  that  old-fashioned?" 

The  sound  answer  came.  "Yes,  madam,  and  so  is  your  baby." 

RESTRAINT  NECESSARY  IN  BUILDING  OF  CHARACTER 

Just  one  story  I  want  to  leave  with  you  folks  today.  Some  good 
Bishop  in  Ogden  told  it  to  the  Lesser  Priesthood  group  a  year  ago,  and 
I  pass  it  on  to  you.  This  is  something  that  President  Clark  and  some 
of  the  other  brethren  continually  hammer  on — restraint.  Some  men  who 
go  on  transgressing  think  they  are  the  only  men  who  have  human  ap- 
petites— I  am  using  the  words  of  President  Clark  to  me  the  other  day 
when  a  pitiful  case  came  before  us.  He  said :  "That  is  the  trouble  with 
these  men,  they  think  they,  are  the  only  ones  in  the  world  that  have  ap- 
petites." I  am  telling  you  that  in  my  judgment,  if  something  does  not  curb 
the  appetites  of  America  and  American  people,  the  Lord  knows  where  we 
are  going. 

Here  is  the  story:  In  Arabia  to  breed  a  thoroughbred  horse  they 
have  him  go  through  some  particular  definite  education.  They  start 
him  out  when  he  is  a  few  months  old  or  a  few  weeks  old,  (we  had  better 
stay  with  months  I  think  to  be  safe).  They  teach  that  colt  that  when 
he  hears  the  bell  ring  he  is  to  run  to  his  master's  tent  and  be  ready  for 
service.  When  the  horse  is  about  a  year  and  a  half  old  he  is  put  through 
the  "acid"  test.  They  let  him  go  without  water  for  three  or  four  days. 
Then  he  is  so  thirsty  he  will  actually  eat  mud.  They  then  put  him  in  a 
corrall  next  to  a  running  brook.  When  they  are  all  ready,  they  turn  him 
loose.  He  makes  a  bee-line  for  the  flowing  water  charging  as  hard  as  his 
fleet  feet  will  take  him.  Then  they  ring  the  bell.  If  he  stops  and  runs 
back  to  his  master's  tent  he  is  a  thoroughbred.  If  he  runs  for  water  he  is 
a  cull,  and  they  don't  use  him  for  breeding  purposes. 

That  is  a  good  story.  It  applies  to  human  beings.  There  is  no 
civilization  without  restraint,  and  we  do  not  want  to  forget  it.  Since 
I  heard  that  story  I  have  been  reading  about  horses.  I  read  about 
Napoleon's  horse,  Washington's  horse,  and  some  of  those  thorough- 
breds that  the  army  has  picked  out — horses  that  have  gone  down  in 
history.  There  is  no  horse  that  has  interested  me  more  than  the  horse 
whose  hide  is  stuffed  this  minute  in  Washington  D.  C.  in  one  of  the 
museums.  Do  not  forget,  with  all  your  blooded  horses  in  America,  that 
really  when  put  to  the  test,  those  that  amount  to  something  come  from 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


137 


the  Arabian  blood.  This  horse  I  am  talking  about  had  a  wonderful  master. 
The  cannon  booms !  He  and  his  steed  are  twenty  miles  away.  The  rider 
leaps  into  the  saddle.  Thomas  Buchanan  Read  made  heroes  of  these  two 
brave  fellows  in  that  famous  poem.  And  So  and  So  "was  fifteen  miles 
away" ;  the  next  verse  ends  "ten  miles  way" ;  the  next  verse  and  "he  is 
five  miles  away."  Then  we  come  up  to  the  battle  front.  The  men  are 
retreating  in  a  riot.  Here  comes  that  valiant  horse  with  that  valiant  man — 
Phil  Sheridan ;  with  his  sword  pointing  toward  heaven  he  thundered  out. 
"Boys  we  are  going  back."  I  saw  that  play.  I  saw  the  horse  come  on  the 
stage.  He  was  lathered  from  head  to  foot,  his  grand  old  nostrils  steaming 
out  "fire."  He  was  ready  for  game  after  going  the  twenty  miles.  He  was 
a  thoroughbred.  The  defeat  was  turned  into  victory  because  of  that 
horse  that  day.  Why  did  he  have  it  in  him?  Because  of  a  breed  that 
came  from  Arabia,  a  breed  that  learned  restraint,  a  breed  that  learned 
to  take  it  on  the  chin.  We  have  got  to  be  the  same.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

\ 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  question  has  frequently  been  mooted  whether  the  ideals  em- 
bodied in  the  teachings  of  Jesus  can  ever  be  reduced  to  practice  in  this 
stubborn  world.  He  glorified  the  peacemaker  and  the  pure  in  heart  and 
him  that  hungers  after  righteousness  and  He  said  that  the  meek  shall 
inherit  the  earth.  In  that  brief  summing  up  is  embodied  all  the  essentials 
for  the  perfect  society.  Stated  in  the  skeptical,  calculating  language  of 
the  day,  the  question  is,  will  these  notions  work,  or  must  they  forever 
remain  beautifully  conceived,  fanciful  abstractions  isolated  by  an  impas- 
sable interval  from  the  realm  of  reality.  Certainly  the  gap  is  wide  between 
the  beauties  of  association  they  envision  and  the  ugliness  of  what  actually 
is. 

NEED  FOR  BETTER  CONDITIONS  AMONG  MANKIND 

In  this  arrogant,  self-seeking,  strife-ridden  age  there  seems  to  be 
no  place  for  the  meek  except  in  submission  to  indignity  and  in  cringing 
servility.  Humility  is  a  virtue  known  by  little  else  than  its  name.  Hunger 
after  righteousness  is  displaced  by  lust  for  power  and  greed  for  gain 
while  the  voice  of  the  peacemaker  is  drowned  out  by  the  din  of  war. 
But  these  conditions  do  not  bring  mankind  satisfaction,  hence  cannot  be 
the  permanent  order  of  a  desirable  world.  Rather  they  bring  violent 
dissatisfactions.  They  rest  upon  force,  cruelty,  chicanery,  and  fraud ; 
they  result  in  resentment,  contention,  turmoil,  anxiety,  fear  and  unrest. 
The  very  turbulence  of  the  unrest  and  the  dissatisfaction  is  convincing 
evidence  of  men's  feeling  that  they  are  entitled  to  a  more  serene  and 
peaceful  way  of  life  than  they  are  now  experiencing.  There  can  be  no 
question  about  the  desirability  of  the  ideal.  The  issue  raised  is  whether 
mankind  can  achieve  it. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Dbij 

THE  TEACHINGS  OF  JESUS  INTENDED  FOR  ALL  MANKIND 

We  can  perhaps  approach  our  question  with  a  better  understanding 
if  we  remember  that  Jesus  was  not  primarily  concerned  with  any  tem- 
porary or  localized  condition.  His  outlook  compassed  the  whole  race, 
and  its  possible  destiny ;  His  vision  swept  over  the  whole  range  of  time 
and  existence.  The  practicability  of  His  teachings  must  be  tested  from 
this  long-range  view.  He  came  to  a  race  proud  of  its  heritage,  vivid  in 
its  memory  of  a  long  independence  and  cherished  greatness,  galled  by 
and  resentful  of  its  political  eclipse  as  a  subject  province  of  the  empire, 
and  unyielding  in  its  hope  of  return  to  national  independence  and  former 
glory.  To  all  this  Jesus  paid  no  attention  at  all.  He  and  His  followers 
had  no  voice  in  the  existing  political  government.  They  exercised  no 
influence  in  shaping  its  course.  Apparently  He  never  sought  to  influence 
it  or  to  reform  or  correct  it.  Instead  of  trying  to  reform  the  State  He 
was  trying  to  reform  men. 

Many  men  in  this  world  have  worked  out  patterns  for  what  they 
conceived  to  be  the  ideal  State,  but  when  they  had  finished  they  found  they 
had  no  people  fitted  to  live  in  such  state.  Jesus  saw  with  unerring  clear- 
ness that  society  can  be  nothing  better  than  a  reflection  of  the  men  and 
women  who  comprise  it.  The  ideal  state  can  come  only  when  created 
and  peopled  by  men  and  women  who  embody  its  ideals  in  their  lives. 
His  first  business,  therefore,  was  with  individuals,  to  teach  them  how  to 
live,  individually  and  in  relation  to  their  f  ellowmen.  Advancement  in  that 
purpose  would  assure  a  parallel  betterment  of  the  collective  body. 

The  prescription  for  the  kind  of  living  He  enjoined  involves  the  con- 
trol of  self  within,  self-discipline,  the  supremacy  of  individual  vir- 
tues over  baser  instincts,  self-government  which  raises  the  individual  to 
a  plane  where  his  conduct  is  above  the  compulsions  of  an  overhanging 
law.  This  is  only  to  say  that  there  is  involved  the  bringing  of  the  finer 
spiritual  qualities  of  human  nature  into  mastery  over  its  more  carnal 
animal  instincts.  The  fruition  comes  with  a  complete  spiritual  supremacy. 

PERFECTION  GAINED  BY  DEGREES 

But  this  does  not  mean  that  the  way  to  it  is  divorced  from  the 
daily  routine  of  mortal  life.  It  does  not  mean  that  the  principles  of  living 
laid  down  by  Jesus  are  inapplicable  to  the  world  in  which  mortal  man 
lives.  It  signifies  rather  that  in  that  degree  in  which  men  and  women 
spiritualize  their  lives  they  may  enjoy  the  kingdom  of  heaven  on  earth. 
Life  as  it  is  lived  in  this  earth  among  men  with  their  divergent  interests, 
their  conflicting  purposes  and  their  crusading  antagonisms  is  the  training 
ground  for  the  cultivation  and  the  development  of  the  desired  virtues. 
Wherever  and  in  whatever  degree  any  of  His  teachings  are  observed, 
to  that  extent  they  bear  fruit  in  betterment  of  conditions  of  living,  both 
individual  and  collective  living.  Politically  viewed  they  state  the  condi- 
tions basic  to  a  well  ordered  free  government. 

The  whole  perfected  pattern,  of  course,  cannot  be  realized  at  once. 
The  imperfect  will  be  mixed  in  with  the  perfect  till  the  perfect  win 
supremacy  .  In  all  human  things  progress  is  a  process  of  growth ;  ad- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


139 


vancement  is  by  degrees.  It  is  accomplished  by  teaching  and  acceptance 
and  conformance. 

So  in  considering  the  practical  workability  of  the  ideals  we  must 
keep  our  attention  fixed  on  end  results  and  must  not  be  confused  or 
disconcerted  by  passing  episodes  or  the  deeds  of  immaturity  which  seem 
so  entirely  irreconcilable  with  the  possibility  of  ever  in  this  world  bring- 
ing the  ideal  and  the  real  into  unison.  Look,  for  instance,  upon  the 
state  of  the  peacemaker  and  the  meek.  If  all  men  were  pure  in  heart  and 
were  disposed  to  peace  and  in  humility  of  spirit  desired  only  righteous- 
ness, the  problem  of  life  would  be  simple.  But  a  distressing  perplexity 
is  introduced  when  one  man  wants  to  be  at  peace  and  his  immediate 
associate  wants  strife,  when  one  man  wants  to  do  the  right  while  another 
desires  unjust  advantage,  when  one  man  in  meekness  of  spirit  desires  to 
adjust  with  his  contending  neighbor,  and  that  neighbor  arrogantly  de- 
mands unconditional  surrender  to  his  own  unbending  will.  The  un- 
yielding offender  must,  until  he  learns  better,  be  restrained.  Compulsions 
must  be  invoked.  But  artificially  imposed  restraints,  outward  coercions 
can  never  be  anything  but  temporary  expedients.  They  afford  no  cure 
for  the  evil  they  are  designed  to  repress.  So  long  as  wrong  is  held  in 
suppression  by  force,  the  force  will  still  have  to  be  maintained. 

THE  WAY  OF  PEACE  IS  THROUGH  RIGHTEOUSNESg 

That  is  all  basic  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus.  His  ideal  of  government 
is  self-government.  His  concern  was  for  purging  out  of  the  human 
heart  the  ignoble  desire  supplanting  it  with  worthy  purpose.  To 
this  end  He  taught  the  principle  of  overcoming  evil  with  good,  of  sup- 
planting fear  with  confidence,  of  substituting  love  for  hatred,  of  doing  to 
others  what  we  should  like  them  to  do  to  us,  of  being  generous  and  un- 
selfish and  gentle  and  kind,  instead  of  cruel  and  selfish  and  vengeful  and 
insolent.  We  may  withstand  the  invader  of  our  homes,  but  so  long  as  he 
has  the  will  to  invade  we  can  know  no  contentment.  A  nation  may  repel 
the  onslaught  of  a  devastating  foe  but  so  long  as  the  foe  stands  ready 
to  strike,  the  nation  may  never  lay  down  its  arms.  To  maintain  itself 
as  a  perpetual  armed  camp  would  be  intolerable  as  well  as  impossible. 
Security  and  lasting  peace  of  mind,  the  inescapable  conditions  of  national 
peace  and  prosperity,  can  come  only  when  the  enemy  has  ceased  to  want 
to  invade.  This  comes  through  teaching  the  better  way,  through  soul- 
conversion  that  threat  and  force  and  compulsion  bring  no  enduring 
rewards.  In  the  end  the  way  of  the  peace-maker  and  the  meek  must 
prevail. 

In  that  respect  the  history  of  the  world  teaches  but  one  lesson.  No 
world  conqueror  has  ever  been  able  to  perpetuate  his  empire.  When 
the  force  that  created  it  was  no  longer  adequate  to  its  maintenance,  it 
has  crumbled  before  the  onslaught  of  the  subject  peoples  who  have 
nursed  their  grievances  awaiting  the  day  of  retribution.  The  present 
attempt  at  swollen  dominion  is  foredoomed  to  failure.  It  has  within 
itself  the  seeds  of  its  own  destruction.  It  rests  upon  force  and  will  be 
broken  by  force  and  in  the  end  nothing  but  suffering  will  have  resulted 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

From  there  the  world  will  have  to  pick  up  again  and  begin  piecing 
together  its  shattered  fragments  of  faith  and  belief  and  start  building 
anew  on  the  spiritual  principles  inherent  in  the  teachings  of  Christ. 

In  a  vague  generalized  way  men  have  been  sensing  the  impossibility 
of  preserving  a  free  way  of  life  unless  it  is  kept  on  a  spiritual  foundation. 
Nearly  a  year  before  the  outbreak  of  the  present  war  a  group  of  eminent 
and  observant  British  leaders  warned  that  the  nation  must  make  its 
choice  between  spiritual  restoration  and  annihilation. 


THE  NEED  FOR  SPIRITUALITY  FELT 

A  little  more  than  a  year  ago  now  forty  men  of  prominence  in 
religious,  scientific  and  philosophic  circles  called  upon  the  American 
people  to  rouse  themselves  to  the  danger  that  lies  in  the  undermining 
of  religious  belief  and  practice.  Recognizing  that  so  long  as  armed 
aggression  is  rampant  in  the  world,  peaceably  inclined  peoples  must  pre- 
pare themselves  to  repel  it,  they  nevertheless  issued  the  solemn  caution 
that  unless  a  spiritual  and  moral  resuscitation  is  worked  and  respect  for 
religious  values  built  up,  we  shall  arm  in  vain. 

These  are  but  illustrations  of  the  cry  that  is  going  up  from  many 
quarters  indicating  an  uneasiness  of  feeling  that  something  basic  upon 
which  our  security  rested  has  been  slipping  away.  But  I  have  not  found 
any  of  them  telling  us  very  clearly  what  these  spiritual  elements  are, 
nor  how  to  bring  them  back  into  our  national  life.  Our  original  question 
recurs:  Can  the  idealisms  of  Jesus  be  made  to  work? 

CHRISTIAN  IDEALS  THE  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  GOOD  GOVERNMENT 

Perhaps  the  best  answer  to  that  question  is  that  despite  imperfec- 
tion discouraging  failures  and  retrogressions  they  are,  to  a  degree, 
already  working  in  the  world  and  for  nearly  two  thousand  years  have 
been  modifying  and  tempering  and  shaping  the  very  thought  processes 
of  men  and  reflecting  themselves  in  the  best  conceived  principles  of 
civil  governments  themselves. 

Our  own  government  is  the  leading  example  of  this  undeniable 
fact.  It  is  the  product  of  Christ's  teachings.  These  have  bedded  them- 
selves in  its  very  framework.  Its  central  doctrine  assumes  the  Father- 
hood of  God,  and  the  worth  and  dignity  of  man  as  a  child  of  God.  The 
declaration  that  all  men  are  created  equal  and  that  they  are  God-endowed 
with  certain  rights  which  are  inalienable  and  inviolable — the  right  to 
life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness — derives  out  of  1800  years  of 
persistent  teaching  about  the  reality  of  God  and  the  immortality  of  the 
human  soul. 

The  ideas  that  form  our  standards  of  behavior,  by  which  our  con- 
duct is  evaluated  as  being  good  or  bad,  by  which  our  laws  are  shaped 
which  control  in  our  best  concepts  of  good  taste  and  neighborly  pro- 
prieties come  out  of  our  long  tradition  in  the  precepts  of  the  Man  of 
Galilee. 

When  the  politician  or  the  orator  condemns  evils  and  promises  cures 
and  the  institution  of  better  ways,  even  though  insincerely  and  for  selfish 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


141 


ends,  he  rests  his  case,  though  perhaps  unconsciously,  upon  the  basis  of 
Christian  ideals,  all  of  which  demonstrates  how  deeply  these  have  pene- 
trated into  the  thought  habits  of  our  people. 

THE  TREND  TOWARDS  RELIGIOUS  DISBELIEF 

But  today  it  seems  fairly  apparent  that  even  among  the  most  en- 
lightened nations  these  ideas  have  been  losing  ground  as  guiding  prin- 
ciples. Our  own  nation  has  strayed  far.  At  the  outset  they  were  accepted 
as  part  of  a  firm  religious  belief.  Christ  taught  a  religion,  not  merely 
a  code  of  ethics.  It  centered — as  all  religion  must — in  God,  whom  Jesus 
described  as  the  Father  whose  will  He  had  come  to  do,  and  whose  Son  He 
was,  and  whose  promises  formed  the  basis  of  our  future  hopes.  We  have 
been  surrendering  these  convictions.  The  last  century  is  generally  char- 
acterized as  an  irreligious  one.  The  discoveries  of  science  were  startling 
Men  grew  in  their  assumption  of  self-sufficiency.  They  thought  they 
would  be  able  to  explain  everything  upon  the  theory  "of  pure  mechanism 
with  mind,  body  and  soul  the  result  of  chemical  and  physical  actions." 
Jesus  ceased  to  be  the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  of  men  and  became  only 
one,  perhaps  the  greatest,  in  a  succession  of  great  moralists.  His  teach- 
ings became  not  the  Gospel  of  salvation  of  divine  origin  but  a  code  of 
ethics,  with  religion  flouted  as  mere  formalism  and  the  church  the  ex- 
ponent of  an  archaic  superstition.  This  is  striking  faith  at  its  source. 
With  its  underpinning  gone  it  has  no  anchorage.  It  was  His  claim  to 
divinity  that  gave  to  the  teachings  of  Jesus  their  authoritative  sanction. 
Robbed  of  that  sanction  they  had  no  binding  force  upon  men.  As  mere 
ethical  precepts  they  have  proved  themselves  wholly  insufficient  as  the 
present  unhappy  state  of  the  world  attests. 

LOSS  OF  FAITH  IN  GOD  SETS  MANKIND  ADRIFT 

Robert  Gordon  Sproul,  president  of  the  University  of  California 
recently  said: 

There  is  a  great  need  for  some  directive  force  to  rally  the  recupera- 
tive powers  of  mankind  and  win  the  race  with  catastrophe.  Education 
cannot  provide  such  a  force,  important  as  it  is,  because  it  is  not  the 
minds  but  the  souls  of  men  that  must  be  regenerated  if  catastrophe  is 
not  surely  to  come.  Men  must  listeen  to  God  and  obej',  but  they  listen 
to  Hitler  and  Stalin,  and  grovel.  Our  American  heritage  cannot  long 
endure  without  a  firmly  grounded  religious  faith." 

With  God  denied  there  is  none  to  whom  man  owes  reverence.  With 
reverence  gone  man  is  adrift.  Each  one's  notions  have  equal  status  with 
every  other  one's  notions,  and  no  one  knows  what  he  ought  to  believe ; 
respect  for  authority  dies  out  because  there  is  nothing  authoritative  left; 
veneration  for  parental  authority  breaks  down  and  reverence  for  law 
ceases  to  command  allegiance. 

All  these  consequences  are  clearly  revealed  in  the  course  of  events, 
even  in  our  own  land.  We  of  this  generation  received  this  great  govern- 
ment of  ours  from  the  generations  which  had  gone  before  sound  in  its 
principles,  Its  Constitution  was  everywhere  held  in  reverence ;  Its  laws 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

were  obeyed.  No  one  doubted  its.  superiority  over  every  other  form  of 
government  on  earth.  Every  one  had  unshaken  faith  in  its  perpetuity. 
We  pass  it  on  with  that  faith  terribly  shaken.  Its  people  are  torn  by 
dissension.  They  do  not  trust  each  other.  They  are  not  sure  that  after 
all  our  system  of  government  is  better  than  any  other.  They  have  grown 
cynical  and  doubt  if  good  is  to  be  found  anywhere. 

INTERNAL  THREATS  MENACE  FREEDOM 

Unbelief  is  the  menacing  evil  of  the  world.  Among  professedly 
Christian  peoples  relatively  few  could  be  found,  in  all  probability,  who 
would  not  agree  that  the  ideal  of  living  depicted  by  the  Master  is  highly 
to  be  desired.  But  they  do  not  really  believe  His  message.  If  Christians 
actually  believed  they  would  trust  and  if  they  trusted,  envy  and  jealousy 
and  greed  and  hatred  would  be  subdued.  Saying  nothing  about  a  foreign 
war,  leaving  that  to  one  side,  our  internal  disorders  threaten  the  perpet- 
uation of  the  principles  on  which  the  nation  was  founded.  This  manifests 
itself  in  the  dividing  of  people  up  into  classes,  kept  apart  by  mutual 
mistrust,  with  its  consequent  train  of  suspicions,  envies,  abuses  and  re- 
taliations which  blind  them  to  their  undeniable  interdependence  among 
themselves,  their  reciprocity  of  interests  and  their  identity  of  goals.  We 
set  them  off  as  the  rich  and  the  poor ;  the  worker  and  the  employer ;  the 
laborer  and  the  capitalist,  giving  each  its  opposite  as  if  their  welfares 
were  inherently  antagonistic. 

There  is  inescapable  interdependence  among  all.  Whether  men  pon- 
der in  the  night  the  mysteries  of  the  universe  and  seek  to  learn  its  secrets, 
whether  they  dig  the  metals  out  of  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  whether 
they  spin  them  into  steel  or  build  that  into  the  sky-scraper  or  the  factory 
or  the  cottage,  whether  they  have  the  white  and  supple  fingers  of  the 
violinist  or  the  grimed  hands  of  the  mechanic,  whether  their  days  are 
spent  in  the  counting  house  or  sitting  beside  the  bed  of  the  sick  and  dying, 
whether  they  tend  to  flocks  and  herds,  or  till  the  land,  all  have  had  to 
labor  together  to  build  the  mighty  giant  which  is  America. 

POWER  IN  PERSUASION 

How  stupid,  then,  that  they  should  be  separated  into  warring  classes 
in  hostile  camps !  How  silly  to  suppose  that  one  can  be  permanently 
bettered  by  the  crippling  of  the  other !  How  futile  to  hope  that  unity  of 
purpose  and  cooperative  endeavor  can  be  legislated  into  being  or  com- 
pelled by  punitive  statutes  administered  with  undefensible  injustice  and 
stupidity.  It  is  placing  a  low  estimate  on  the  intelligence  of  all  the  groups 
to  assume  that  the  great  majority  of  them  under  just  and  impartial 
guidance  could  not  be  led  into  peaceful  and  mutually  beneficial  under- 
standings. The  few  recalcitrants  could  soon  be  effectively  disciplined. 
The  ways  of  persuasion  and  voluntary  self-disciplining,  of  humility  of 
spirit,  of  appealing  to  the  instincts  of  righteousness,  the  ways  of  peace, 
are  so  infinitely  more  fruitful  of  enduring  results. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  143 


THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

In  the  spread  and  perpetuation  of  the  Christian  principles  that  found 
expression  in  this  cherished  government  of  ours,  the  Church  played  the 
principal  role.  It  has  a  great  stake  in  freedom.  It  must  be  equally  zealous 
to  preserve  and  maintain  it.  It  is  its  duty  whenever  that  is  threatened, 
either  by  direct  assault  or  the  insidious  undermining  of  the  principles  on 
which  it  rests,  to  raise  its  voice  in  warning  and  in  protest  and  to  throw 
its  whole  influence  into  the  scales  to  preserve  that  freedom  under  which 
men  may  live  and  grow  toward  the  ideals  taught  by  the  Master. 

May  God  speed  the  day  of  this  happy  consummation,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Several  months  ago  I  stood  at  President  Grant's  bedside  when  he  lay 
in  the  hospital  in  Los  Angeles.  When  I  think  how  far  he  has  come 
since  that  time  on  the  road  to  recovery,  I  am  deeply  grateful  at  this 
moment  to  be  able  to  announce  that  he  is  here,  and  will  give  us  instructions 
and  blessings  at  the  conclusion  of  this  great  Conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  would  like  to  talk  about  forty  minutes — I  see  there  are  only  ten. 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  instead  of 
not  being  able  to  move  a  finger  or  an  arm  or  my  left  leg,  and  being  unable 
to  see  straight  out  of  my  left  eye,  that  instead  of  my  mouth  being  all 
puckered  up  in  a  corner,  I  am  looking  natural  and  feeling  natural,  and  I 
expect  that  I  feel  a  whole  lot  better  than  I  really  am. 

I  was  requested  to  speak  only  twenty  minutes  at  the  opening  session 
of  this  Conference,  and  I  spoke  forty ;  and  then  last  night  I  spoke  forty- 
seven  minutes — so  that  I  have  been  overdoing  what  was  considered  to 
be  wise. 

ENDORSEMENT  OF  PRECEDING  SPEAKERS 

I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  the  Conference.  I  listened  to  some  of 
it  at  home,  of  course,  over  the  radio.  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  every- 
thing said  by  the  second  counselor  to  the  Presiding  Bishop,  and  I  endorse 
what  Brother  Merrill  has  said  here  today,  and  what  our  last  speaker, 
Brother  Bowen,  has  said.  I  noticed  that  Brother  Bowen  laid  down 
several  sheets  of  paper  and  did  not  read  what  was  on  them.  I  hope  that 
when  he  turns  in  his  manuscript  for  publication  he  will  put  it  all  in, 
because  I  endorse  everything  that  he  said  and  I  endorse  what  he  was 
going  to  say,  without  knowing  what  it  was.  (Laughter) 

DECRIES  CONDITIONS  IN  AMERICA 

I  am  sure  we  all  love  America.  I  am  sure  there  are  no  more  patri- 
otic people  on  the  face  of  the  earth  than  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  in  fact, 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

our  belief  is  that  the  men  who  established  this  country  were  blessed  of 
God,  that  they  were  inspired  of  God,  and  as  we  depart  from  those  things 
we  are  not  doing  that  which  is  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  think 
that  without  doubt  we  are  getting  just  about  as  far  away  as  we  can  at  the 
present  time — shall  I  say,  politically.  I  do  not  care  how  you  put  it.  We 
are  starting  on  the  broad  path  that  leads  to  destruction,  and  had  we 
stayed  in  the  straight  and  narrow  path  we  would  not  need  to  be  ar- 
ranging to  be  in  a  war.  The  Lord  points  out  the  way,  and  if  we  walk 
in  it  all  will  be  well. 

Many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  surrendered  their  independence ; 
they  have  surrendered  their  free  thought,  politically,  and  we  have  got 
to  get  back  to  where  we  are  not  surrendering  the  right.  We  must  stay 
with  the  right  and  if  we  do  so  God  will  bless  us. 

ADVICE  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINT  BOYS  IN  THE  ARMY 

I  understand  there  are  a  lot  of  our  boys  here  today  that  are  in  the 
army.  I  hope  and  pray  and  plead  that  every  boy  will  feel  in  his  heart : 
"I  want  to  know  what  is  right  and  clean  and  pure  and  holy,  and  I  want 
God  to  help  me."  I  want  every  Latter-day  Saint  soldier  to  get  down  on 
his  knees  and  pray  God  to  help  him  to  lead  a  clean  life,  and  to  preach  the 
Gospel  while  he  is  in  the  army.  The  army,  as  a  rule,  is  a  demoralizer  of 
the  morals  of  men,  to  a  very  great  extent.  They  think :  "Oh,  well ;  we 
are  going  to  be  killed  anyway — let's  have  a  h — 1  of  a  good  time."  Do 
not  wish  for  any  such  good  time ;  there  is  no  good  time  anywhere  for 
any  human  being  except  by  doing  good  and  doing  right.  There  is  a  peace, 
a  joy,  and  a  happiness  that  come  from  doing  the  right  that  nothing  else  can 
compare  with.  There  are  no  people  in  all  the  world  that  are  as  happy 
and  as  contented  as  the  true  Latter-day  Saints,  and  there  are  no  people 
that  are  much  more  miserable  than  those  that  finally  apostatize.  I  have 
met  them  and  I  have  not  forgotten  when  one  man  laughed  at  me  because 
I  believed  firmly  in  the  Church,  and  its  principles  and  doctrines.  He  said 
that  anyone  who  believed  in  such  things  lacked  intelligence.  This  man 
was  an  apostate.   I  was  able  even  as  a  boy  to  say  to  him  : 

The  life  of  the  apostate  is  a  greater  testimony  to  me  than  any- 
thing else  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  I  am  engaged,  except 
the  teaching  of  my  beloved  mother.  I  have  seen  good  men  change 
and  become  bad  men  and  then  apostatize,  but  I  have  never  known  a 
good  man,  a  tithepayer,  an  observer  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  to 
ever  apostatize.  I  have  found  men  lying  against  the  Church  after 
they  apostatized. 

AN  UNFRIENDLY  NEWSPAPER 

The  gentleman  said: 

Do  you  mean  to  call  me  a  liar? 

I  said : 

No,  I  do  not  want  to  call  you  a  liar;  that  would  not  be  gentle- 
manly. But  what  is  the  difference  between  lying  yourself  and  hiring 
somebody  else  to  lie? 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


145 


None. 
I  said : 

There  is  a  newspaper  today,  in  this  town,  that  was  foreordained 
figuratively  before  it  was  born,  to  lie  about  the  Mormons  and  it  is 
fulfilling  its  foreordination.  I  am  working  in  a  bank  and  I  see  the 
list  of  patriotic  apostates  and  anti-Mormons  who  put  up  the  money 
to  keep  it  alive,  and  your  name  was  among  them. 

He  said: 

The  paper  does  not  lie. 

I  said: 

My  friend,  I  will  make  you  acknowledge  it  lies,  if  you  dare  to 
challenge  me. 

I  challenge  you. 

All  right,  I  said,  I  went  to  a  meeting  in  what  is  called  the  Liberal 
Institute.  It  ought  to  have  been  called  Headquarters  for  lying  about 
the  Mormons,  instead  of  Liberal  Institute.  You  sat  on  the  stand 
within  ten  feet  of  the  speaker,  and  I  sat  on  the  front  row  within  ten 
feet  of  the  speaker.  Now,  I  will  tell  you  everything  that  happened  in 
that  meeting,  which  you  heard  and  I  heard,  now  I  will  tell  you  what 
was  published,  and  now  I  will  tell  you  that  every  word  of  it  was  a  lie, 
and  if  you  say  it  was  not  a  lie  you  are  a  liar. 

He  said : 

The  paper  lied  that  time. 

I  am  going  to  take  as  long  as  I  want,  you  know,  and  if  anybody  gets 
tired  and  wants  to  go  out  he  or  she  has  my  permission.  Being  an  insur- 
ance agent  I  am  not  easily  offended.  {Laughter) 

The  fact  remains,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  had  a  glor- 
ious Conference,  and  I  wish  that  I  could  have  been  here  at  all  of  the 
meetings,  but  wisdom  suggested  that  I  do  not  come.  I  think  that  probably 
I  spoke  too  much  last  night,  but  everything  I  said  I  meant,  and  I  do  not 
take  back  a  word  that  I  said. 

THE  GOOD  OF  THE  PEOPLE  UPPERMOST  DESIRE 

People  have  come  into  my  office  and  complained  about  editorials 
that  were  in  the  Church  newspaper,  and  I  have  endorsed  those  editorials 
with  all  my  heart,  and  I  do  not  give  the  snap  of  my  finger  for  the  opinion 
of  those  who  did  not  endorse  them.  I  simply  feel  that  they  were  for 
the  best  good  of  the  people.  I  have  no  other  desire,  I  have  never  had, 
and  I  never  will,  other  than  to  try  to  find  out  what  is  for  their  best  good. 

I  heard  that  one  of  the  men  sitting  on  this  stand  today  was  twitted 
• — it  may  not  be  true — that  he  had  surrendered  his  manhood  and  voted 
the  way  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  wanted  him  to  vote.  He  had  voted 
the  opposite  ticket  from  what  he  was  expected  to  vote.  I  heard  that  this 
good  brother  who  sits  here  said,  "The  Presidency  did  not  tell  me  how 
to  vote."  I  heard  that  he  got  down  on  his  knees  and  prayed  to  the  Lord 
to  help  him  to  know  how  to  vote,  and  he  voted  contrary  to  the  way  he 
had  originally  intended  to  vote,   I  wish  more  people  would  get  down  on 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


their  knees,  and  perhaps  they  would  vote  differently — that  is  my  belief. 
He  said  to  this  man : 

Don't  go  away  with  any  idea  that  if  the  Presidency  ever  did  ask 
me  to  vote  a  certain  way  that  that  is  not  the  way  I  would  vote.  It  is 
the  way  I  will  vote.  , 


Now,  brethren,  I  have  said  it  here,  and  I  will  say  again,  that  as  a 
youngster  I  never  wanted  anything  more  than  I  wanted  to  be  the  first 
Governor  of  the  State  of  Utah.    I  received  a  telegram  saying : 

Sixty  per  cent  of  the  convention  in  Ogden  has  agreed  to  vote  for 
you  on  the  first  ballot,  you  are  sure  to  be  nominated.  We  believe  it  will 
be  unanimous  before  we  get  through  voting. 

I  read  the  telegram  to  Heber  M.  Wells,  my  brother-in-law,  who  had 
been  nominated  for  the  position  on  the  Republican  ticket.    He  said : 

Well,  Heber,  all  that  I  have  I  owe  to  you.  You  took  my  note  for 
an  interest  in  your  business,  and  the  dividends  paid  the  note;  and  I 
sold  my  interest  and  got  a  home  to  start  with.  When  I  was  defeated 
the  first  time  I  ever  ran  for  office  you  went  around  with  a  list  headed 
by  this  statement:  We  subscribe  for  stock  in  the  State  Bank,  Heber 
J.  Grant  to  be  President,  and  Heber  M.  Wells,  Cashier,  and  as  a  result 
you  gave  me  twice  as  good  a  job  as  I  had  in  the  City  Hall.  If  you 
want  to  be  the  Governor  I  will  resign  although  it  will  almost  damn 
me  with  my  party,  and  I  will  campaign  for  you. 

I  thanked  him.   I  said : 

I  will  let  you  know  in  an  hour — maybe  less. 

I  walked  to  the  office  of  the  President  of  the  Church,  Wilford 
Woodruff,  a  man  nearly  ninety  years  of  age,  and  I  handed  him  the  tele- 
gram and  I  said : 

President  Woodruff,  please  tell  me  how  to  answer  it. 

Those  of  you  that  knew  Brother  Woodruff  know  that  he  was  a 
terror  to  nearly  all  shorthand  clerks — he  talked  so  fast.  And  he  talked 
just  as  fast  as  I  ever  heard  him  when  he  said  to  me : 

What  are  you  coming  to  me  for?  Why  don't  you  answer  your 
own  telegrams?  Haven't  you,  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
sufficient  wisdom  to  answer  a  telegram  without  bothering  me? 


Thank  you,  Brother  Woodruff;  thank  you.  Had  you  thought 
that  I  could  do  any  good  as  the  Governor  of  the  State — that  young 
man  as  I  am  I  could  do  any  good  for  the  people,  you  would  have  said, 
Heber,  the  Lord  bless  you.  I  hope  you  will  be  elected.  I  shall  send 
a  telegram  that  it  will  be  a  personal  favor  to  me  if  my  name  never 
comes  before  the  convention. 

Ah,  that  is  good,  that  is  good,  that  is  good. 

And  that  is  the  telegram  I  sent ;  and  today  I  thank  the  Lord  from 
the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  I  did  not  become  the  Governor,  because  I 


REFUSAL  TO  BECOME  FIRST  GOVERNOR 


I  said: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


147 


had  never  studied  along  that  line ;  I  was  not  qualified  for  the  job,  and  I 
would  not  have  made  one-half  as  good  a  Governor  as  Governor  Wells 
did,  because  he  had  a  patriot,  he  had  a  diplomat,  he  had  a  great  statesman 
as  a  father,  one  of  the  greatest.  I  understand  that  Brigham  Young  said : 

Daniel  Wells  is  my  statesman,  Heber  Kimball  is  my  prophet, 
and  I  am  a  business  man  looking  after  the  best  interests  of  the  people. 

Jesse  N.  Smith,  according  to  Joseph  F.  Smith  one  of  the  best  read 
and  the  best  informed  man  in  the  Church,  said  to  me  that  in  his  judg- 
ment there  were  two  great,  wonderful,  outstanding  men,  politically,  in 
the  United  States,  and  they  were  Daniel  H.  Wells  and  Abraham  Lincoln, 
and  in  his  judgment  Daniel  was  the  greater  of  the  two. 

So,  I  say,  Heber  was  educated  along  the  proper  lines  for  that  work, 
and  he  was  a  very  good  Governor.  I  had  made  money,  and  plenty  of  it, 
and  Heber  had  not,  and  I  would  not  have  made  as  good  a  Governor  and 
it  would  have  been  a  mistake  for  me  to  have  been  elected.  But  I  wanted 
it  all  right  to  start  with. 

I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  this  Gospel  is  true,  and  I  know 
that  what  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  to  me — the  last  words  that  he  uttered — 
is  true :  "The  Lord  makes  no  mistake.  The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy !" 
The  Lord  has  made  no  mistake,  although  I  say  it  myself,  because  I  have 
given  my  life,  the  best  of  it,  to  this  Church,  and  shall  do  so  as  long  as 
I  live. 

god's  guidance  given  to  those  who  seek  it 

Now,  brethren,  get  down  on  your  knees  and  pray  to  God  to  guide 
you  in  all  you  do.  Do  you  think  that  there  are  a  lot  of  people  holding 
the  highest  offices  in  the  Government  of  the  United  States  that  are 
praying  for  guidance,  men  who  voted  for  the  repeal  of  the  liquor  law  ? 
Do  you  mean  that  the  men  who  drink  their  cocktails  right  along — and 
we  are  spending  billions  of  dollars  for  whiskey — and  some  of  them  are 
now  in  high  places — that  those  are  the  men  whom  God  is  directing?  If 
you  do,  I  do  not.  I  tell  you  that  no  greater  crime  was  ever  committed 
than  the  repealing  of  the  Prohibition  law.  Billions  of  dollars  squan- 
dered, and  poverty,  and  heartaches,  and  death  and  damnation  to  many 
men,  have  come  because  of  liquor. 

Now,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  our  boys.  I  give  them  my  blessing, 
and  I  have  the  right  to  bless  them,  and  I  promise  them  that  if  they  will 
be  prayerful  God  will  give  them  joy  even  in  the  army,  if  they  will  live 
sweet  and  clean  lives.  I  do  hope  and  pray  that  they  will  be  like  the 
Lamanites  who  were  converted  and  who  when  they  went  into  war  none 
of  them  lost  their  lives.  A  marvelous  story  that  you  will  find  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  sanctify  all  that  has  been  said  here,  from  the 
start  of  this  Conference  to  the  close.  I  thank  Him  for  the  ease,  the 
perfect  ease,  that  I  had  in  talking  last  night  for  forty-seven  minutes.  I 
want  to  say  that  I  love  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  love  the  word  of  God ; 
and  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  thank  God  that  the  Gospel  is  one  of  for- 
giveness. 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 


A  STORY  REGARDING  FORGIVENESS 

I  shall  tell  you  one  incident  in  my  life. 

A  man  was  cut  off  the  Church  for  adultery,  and  asked  to  be  restored. 
President  John  Taylor  wrote  a  letter  to  the  brethren  that  had  taken 
action  against  the  man,  in  which  he  said :  "I  want  every  man  to  vote  his 
own  convictions,  and  not  to  vote  to  make  it  unanimous  unless  it  is  unani- 
mous." 

When  the  matter  was  presented  and  voted  upon,  the  vote  stood 
half  for  and  half  against  restoration. 

Later  he  came  up  again,  and  a  majority  were  in  favor  of  his  being 
baptized. 

Finally,  all  of  the  men  that  were  at  the  trial,  except  one,  voted  to 
let  him  be  baptized.  President  John  Taylor  sent  for  me  and  told  me  I 
was  the  only  man  that  stood  in  the  way  of  this  man's  being  baptized, 
and  he  said: 

How  will  you  feel  when  you  meet  the  Lord,  if  this  man  is  per- 
mitted to  come  up  and  say  he  repented  although  his  sins  were  as 
scarlet,  and  you  refused  to  let  him  be  baptized? 

HEEDS  SACRED  BOOK 

I  said: 

I  will  look  the  Lord  squarely  in  the  eye,  and  I  will  tell  Him  that 
any  man  that  can  destroy  the  virtue  of  a  girl  and  then  lie  and  claim 
that  she  was  maligning  him  and  blackmailing  him,  will  never  get  back 
into  this  Church  with  my  vote.  You  said  in  your  letter  to  vote  our 
convictions,  and  I  will  vote  them  and  stay  with  them  unless  you  want 
me  to  change. 

He  said : 

Stay  with  your  convictions,  my  boy. 

I  walked  to  my  home,  only  one  block  away.  I  picked  up  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  I  was  reading  it  prayerfully  and  humbly,  and 
marking  passages.  Instead  of  its  opening  at  the  bookmark,  it  opened 
at  the  passage : 

Wherefore,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  ought  to  forgive  one  another; 
for  he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his;  trespasses  standeth  con- 
demned before  the  Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the  greater  sin. 

I  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  re- 
quired to  forgive  all  men. 

I  shut  up  the  book  and  rushed  back  to  the  President,  and  I  said, 
"I  give  my  consent." 

Brother  Taylor  had  a  habit,  when  something  pleased  him,  of  shak- 
ing himself  and  laughing.  He  shook  himself  and  laughed,  and  said: 
"My  gracious,  Heber,  this  is  remarkable;  what  has  happened?"  And  I 
told  him.  He  said :  "Heber,  when  you  left  here  a  few  minutes  ago  did 
you  not  think :  what  if  he  had  defiled  my  wife  or  daughter?  And  when 
you  thought  that  did  you  not  feel  as  if  you  would  like  to  just  knock  the 
life  out  of  that  man  ?" 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


149 


I  said,  "I  certainly  did." 
"How  do  you  feel  now?" 

"Well,  really  and  truly  Brother  Taylor,  I  hope  the  poor  old  sinner 
can  be  forgiven." 

"You  feel  a  whole  lot  better,  don't  you?" 
I  said,  "I  certainly  do." 

He  added :  "I  put  that  clause  in  that  letter  for  you  and  my  son. 
You  have  learned  a  lesson  as  a  young  man.  You  have  learned  a  good 
lesson,  that  this  Gospel  is  one  of  forgiveness  of  sin,  of  awful  sin,  if  there 
is  true  repentance,  and  it  brings  peace  into  your  heart  when  you  forgive 
the  sinner.  It  brings  peace  when  you  love  the  man  that  you  hated,  pro- 
vided the  man  turns  to  doing  right.  You  have  learned  a  lesson  in  your 
youth.   Never  forget  it."   And  I  never  have. 

A  CLOSING  BLESSING 

But  there  is  one  thing  that  is  necessary — and  I  warn  you  all — and 
that  is  this:  "By  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his  sins — 
behold,  he  will  confess  them  and  forsake  them."  If  he  has  not  truly 
repented  President  Taylor  said  his  being  baptized  will  do  him  no  good. 

Now,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  bless  the  people  of  the  world.  I  pray  with  all  my  heart  and 
soul  that  any  man — I  do  not  care  who  he  is  or  how  high  his  position, — 
that  is  doing  anything  to  get  us  into  war,  that  he  may  be  confounded ; 
and  I  pray  that  we  will  all  pray  for  guidance  with  all  our  hearts  and 
souls.  I  feel  as  though  it  might  be  well  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
set  aside  a  day  to  pray  and  to  fast  and  to  ask  the  Lord  to  preserve  us 
as  a  nation  from  getting  into  a  war. 

God  bless  you,  one  and  all,  and  every  honest  soul — and  every  wicked 
soul  that  repents — I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Daily  the  Latter-day  Saints  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  and  inspire 
and  preserve  the  President  of  the  Church.  In  the  future  when  we  thus 
pray  let  us  also  ask  Him  for  power  to  follow  President  Grant's  righteous 
life,  for  I  testify  to  you  that  he  is  a  righteous  man  and  sets  a  worthy 
example  to  all  Israel.  Let  us  ask  also  that  we  might  have  power  and 
ability  to  do  what  he  has  asked  us  to  perform  as  officers  and  members 
of  the  Church.  We  will  associate  with  our  prayer  that  God  will  bless 
him,  these  two  petitions — first,  that  we  may  be  righteous  as  he  in  our 
daily  lives,  in  our  dealings  with  our  f ellowmen ;  secondly,  that  we  might 
have  increased  power  to  perform  our  duties  in  the  Church.  Then  I  am 
sure  that  the  spirit  of  this  great  Conference  will  be  carried  to  our  homes 
and  will  abide  in  our  hearts  and  the  prayer  we  offer  for  President  Grant's 
preservation  will  be  answered  in  blessings  upon  our  own  heads. 

I  am  sure  you  would  have  me  express  at  this  time  appreciation  of 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Dag 

the  inspiring  songs  given  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  also  those  rendered 
by  combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  and  the 
quartet  of  High  Priests  from  Pasadena  Stake. 

I  think  it  highly  fitting  for  us  to  express  appreciation  for  the  silent 
messages  of  appreciation  and  love  that  have  come  during  this  Conference 
from  these  beautiful  flowers  placed  here  by  thoughtful  hearts.  We  want 
the  donors  to  know  that  we  appreciate  these  gorgeous  bouquets,  "nature's 
jewels,"  depicting  God's  goodness  and  glory. 

President  Edward  J.  Wood  of  the  Alberta  Temple : 

I  believe  that  it  would  be  with  the  consent  of  all  here  if  we  should 
stand  and  offer  a  silent  prayer  for  thirty  seconds  to  show  President  Grant 
our  faith. 

President  David  0.  McKay : 

President  Grant  suggests  that  we  join  with  the  one  who  offers  the 
benediction  whom  we  will  have  express  the  prayer  that  you  now  suggest. 
We  will  continue  to  pray  vocally  and  silently  in  our  homes.  A  silent 
prayer,  a  prayer  of  the  heart,  even  that  of  a  little  child,  will  be  heard  of 
God. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing,  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb,"  from  the 
"Messiah"  by  Handel,  and  after  the  benediction  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  for  six  months. 

President  Samuel  G.  Dye  of  the  Ogden  Stake  will  offer  the  benedic- 
tion and  will  express  our  prayerful  wishes  for  President  Grant's  health 
and  restoration. 

The  Choir  sang,  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb"' — Handel  (the  "Messiah"). 
Elder  Samuel  G.  Dye,  President  of  the  Ogden  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  musical  exercises  at  the  Friday  sessions  were  furnished  by  the 
combined  choruses  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  Bonneville, 
Cottonwood,  Emigration,  Ensign,  Highland,  and  Wells  Stakes ;  the 
Pasadena  Stake  Male  Quartet,  A.  M.  Gish,  director,  furnished  numbers 
for  the  Saturday  morning  meeting ;  and  at  the  Saturday  afternoon  and 
Sunday  sessions  the  music  was  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  director. 

The  congregation  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and 
Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor  and  assistant  conductor,  respectively,  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

Accompaniments  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Organ  accompaniments  and  solo  pres- 
entations for  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 


Ashton,  Bishop  Marvin  O  135 

Gratitude  for  kindness,  135 — Little  change  in  human  nature,  135 — 
Restraint  necessary  for  the  building  of  character,  136. 

Authorities  present    1 

Authorities  sustained  119 

Auxiliary  officers  sustained  ...122 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   31 

Appreciation  for  President  Grant,  31 — Preparation  for  coming  events, 
31 — The  Gospel  restored  in  power,  32 — Quotations  from  Presidents  of 
the  Church,  32 — Study  of  the  word  of  God  urged,  33 — Knowledge  of 
Church  History  important,  33 — A  testimony  as  to  the  leaders  of  the 
Church,  34. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E  137 


Need  for  better  conditions  among  mankind,  137 — Perfection  gained  by 
degrees,  138 — The  way  to  peace  is  through  righteousness,  139 — The 


need  for  spirituality  felt,  140 — The  trend  towards  religious  disbelief, 
141 — Loss  of  faith  in  God  sets  mankind  adrift,  141 — Internal  threats 
menace  freedom,  142 — Power  in  persuasion,  142 — Responsibility  of  the 
Church,  143. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  102 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   82 

The  cost  of  transgression,  82 — Warning  to  America,  84 — Faith  ex- 
pressed in  the  future,  84. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q.   34 


Expresses  desire  to  live  the  Gospel,  34 — Testimony  as  to  the  observance 
of  the  law  of  tithing,  35 — Observance  of  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  brings 
blessings,  35 — Restoration  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  36 — Church  or- 
ganized under  divine  instructions,  36 — Revelation  in  Liberty  jail,  38. 


Changes  in  Church  Officers   3 

Chief  of  Police   24 

Appeal  for  obedience  to  traffic  laws,  24. 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   47 

Church  Welfare  Committee  sustained   121 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr   13 


The  Church  in  a  prosperous  condition,  13 — True  meaning  of  Fast  offer- 
ings, 14 — Work  going  on  in  foreign  lands,  14 — Church  activities  in  army 
camps  and  defense  industries,  14 — Sees  perilous  times,  15 — Warning 
against  Communism,  16 — Early  leaders  rebuked  by  the  Lord,  16 — Our 
responsibility  to  teach  children,  17. 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger   -  -  122 

The  value  of  good  leadership,  123 — Enoch  called  to  a  great  work, 
123 — The  Lord's  promise  to  Enoch,  124. 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  103 

Broadcast  announcements,  103. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  116 

A  survey  resulting  in  the  rearrangement  of  the  Ten  Commandments, 
116 — Truth  needs  no  embellishment,  118. 

First  Day,  Afternoon  meeting   25 

First  Day  Morning  meeting    2 

General  Authorities  sustained  -  119 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  sustained  122 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   6 

Explains  condition  of  his  health,  6 — A  sermon  delivered  in  the  past,  6 
President  Joseph  E.  Smith's  blessing,  7 — Pledges  made  in  first  address, 
7 — Grateful  for  the  spirit  of  good-will  existing,  8 — Kansas  City 
Speech,  8 — Honored  at  a  dinner,  9 — Praises  past  leaders,  11 — Blessed 
through  making  generous  donation,  11 — Inspired  patriarchal  blessing, 
12 — Daughter  healed  by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  12. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  143 

Endorsement  of  preceding  speakers,  143 — Decries  conditions  in  America, 
143 — Advice  to  Latter-day  Saint  boys  in  the  army,  144 — An  unfriendly 
newspaper,  144 — The  good  of  the  people  uppermost  desire,  145 — Refusal 
to  become  first  Governor,  146 — God's  guidance  given  to  those  who  seek 
it,  147 — A  story  regarding  forgiveness,  148 — Heeds  sacred  book,  148 — 
Closing  blessing,  149. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   79 

Incidents  from  President  Grant's  early  life,  79 — Gratitude  expressed 
for  blessings,  80 — Satan's  power  to  tempt,  80 — God's  power  made 
manifest,  81 — Lincoln's  words  fulfilled,  81 — Admonitions  of  the  Savior, 
81 — The  work  of  Stake  missionaries,  82. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.  -   67 

Latter-day  Saint  idea  regarding  God,  67 — Difference  between  right 
and  wrong  should  be  taught,  67 — Testimony  of  the  Gospel  adds  strength 
against  temptation,  68. 

Judd,  Elder  James   41 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  110 

The  Lord  concerned  in  the  welfare  of  His  children,  110 — Inspired 
leadership  the  present  need,  110 — The  Lord's  Plan,  111 — Revelation 
pertaining  to  the  United  Order,  112 — Beginning  of  the  Welfare  Plan, 
112 — Purpose  of  the  Plan  to  help  the  poor,  113 — Inspired  words  of 
past  leaders,  114. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   25 

Love  your  enemies,  26 — No  children  hungry  or  cold,  27 — Man  to  have 
dominion,  27 — Riding  drunkenly  to  a  fall,  27 — Powerful  beast,  helpless 
prey,  28— Peace  that  passeth  understanding,  28 — Appalling  attacks  on 
innocents,  28 — Holding  pistol  at  neighbor's  head,  29—Pledges  flagrantly 
dishonored,  29 — Fundamentals  of  freedom,  29— Natural  ability  richly 
rewarded,  29 — Leaders  competent  and  righteous,  30 — Which?  Fight 
.  or  arbitrate  ?  30 — Least  may  be  greatest,  30 — In  unity  there  is  strength, 
30 — Freedom  and  justice  for  all,  31. 


INDEX 


153 


McKay,  President  David  0   2 

Opens  first  session,  2. 

McKay,  President  David  O  -   5 

Expresses  gratitude  at  presence  of  President  Grant,  5 

McKay,  President  David  O   24 

Reads  appeal  from  Chief  of  Police,  24. 

McKay,  President  David  O   25 

Excuses  President  Grant's  absence,  25. 

McKay,  President  David  O  -   41 

Announces  illness  of  Hilton  A.  Robertson,  41. 

McKay,  President  David  O   51 

Plea  for  safety,  51. 

McKay,  President  David  O   51 

Expresses  gratitude  to  Singing  Mothers,  51. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   51 

Expresses  pleasure  at  presence  of  President  Grant,  51. 

McKay,  President  David  O   52 


Brings  new  cheer,  53 — Church  conditions,  53 — Tithing,  53 — Fast  Offer- 
ings, 53 — Church  Welfare  Plan,  54 — Number  of  persons  now  engaged, 
54— Excellent  results,  55 — European  Missions,  55 — The  Gospel  of 
love,  55 — War  a  result  of  rejecting  the  Gospel,  56-^-Evils  to  be  con- 


demned, 56 — Attention  to  little  things  vital  in  eradicating  hate,  57 — 
Eliminate  hatred,  57. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   62 

Announces  Pasadena  male  quartette,  62. 

McKay,  President  David  0   74 

Praises  singing  of  Pasadena  Quartette,  74. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   74 

Announces  opening  of  afternoon  session,  2nd  day,  74. 

McKay,  President  David  0   85 

Praises  Tabernacle  Choir,  85. 

McKay,  President  David  O   96 

Announces  President  Grant's  absence,  96. 

McKay,  President  David  O  '  119 

Announces  opening  of  last  session,  119 

McKay,  President  David  0  143 

Speaks  of  President  Grant's  recovery  from  illness,  and  announces  him 
as  the  speaker,  143. 

McKay,  President  David  O  149 

Asks  Saints  to  follow  President  Grant's  advice,  149. 

McKay,  President  David  O  150 


Asks  one  who  offers  benediction  to  pray  for  President  Grant,  150. 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   44 

Progress  being  made  in  European  Missions,  44 — Successful  conference 
of  the  Danish  Mission,  45 — Conference  at  Liege,  45 — Conferences  in 
Belfast  and  Berlin,  46 — Praise  for  acting  mission  presidents,  46 — 
President  Grant's  visit  to  Europe,  46 — Love  of  the  Gospel  in  the  hearts 
of  the  European  Saints,  46 — A  sincere  testimony,  47. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F  129 

Acknowledging  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  trials,  129 — Importance  of  living 
our  religion,  130— Practical  religion  the  need  of  the  world,  130 — 
The  value  of  liberty,  131 — The  "closed  shop"  a  menace  to  liberty, 
132 — Professor  Douglas  Johnson's  views,  132 — Rights  of  capital  and 
labor  call  for  unity,  134— economic  peace,  through  application  of  the 
Golden  Rule,  135. 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   20 

A  war  fought  for  a  principle,  20 — Temple  marriage  a  great  blessing, 
21 — Blessings  to  be  sought  through  worthiness,  22 — neglect  of  oppor- 
tunities brings  regret,  22. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand  125 

The  earth  being  prepared  for  the  coming  of  Christ,  125 — Faith  shown 
by  the  mother  of  Jesse  Knight,  126 — Promises  of  the  Lord  to  those 
who  serve  Him,  127 — Evidences  of  faith  seen  among  the  people,  128 — 
Testimony  and  blessing,  129. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  104 

Family  relationship  the  first  form  of  government,  104 — The  home 
the  foundation  of  society,  105 — Value  of  old-fashioned  home  life,  105 — 
The  ideal  home,  106 — Family  life  in  apartments  not  ideal,  106 — 
Requirements  for  the  making  of  good  homes,  107 — The  establishment 
of  ideal  homes  a  great  mission,  107 — Latter-day  Saint  homes,  108 — ■ 
Children  the  joy  of  the  home,  108 — Eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant, 
108 — Religion  a  safeguard,  109. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   87 

A  testimony  brings  responsibility,  87 — True  meaning  of  brotherhood, 
88 — Alma's  experience,  88 — Change  wrought  on  Peter  by  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  89— An  expression  of  Parley  P.  Pratt,  90— True 
conversion  comes  through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  90 — Steadfastness 
brings  growth  and  power,  91. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  meeting   74 

Second  Day,  Morning  meeting   51 

Seegmiller,  Elder  William  W   43 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    96 

Encouragement  for  women  to  join  the  Relief  Society,  97 — Aaronic 
Priesthood  demonstration,  97 — The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  absorbs 
all  truth,  97 — Our  missionaries  and  soldiers  need  encouragement,  98 — 
The  Tabernacle  Choir  receives  praise,  98 — Obedience  to  the  command- 
ments brings  blessings,  99 — A  good  example  is  expected  of  members 
of  the  Church,  100 — Testimony  and  blessing,  101. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   91 

Those  who  may  be  baptized,  92 — Church  membership  will  not  escape 
judgment,  92 — Baptism  a  covenant  to  continue  faithful,  93 — "Take  heed 
and  pray  always,"  94 — The  word  of  the  Lord  should  be  revered,  94 — 


INDEX 


155 


Mortality  the  foundation  for  perfection,  95— Weaknesses  conquered 
through  concentrated  effort,  95. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   63 

Conditions  in  the  Northwest,  63— Visit  to  Alaska,  63 — Happiness  in 
the  Gospel,  64 — Fulfilment  of  a  patriarchal  blessing,  64 — The  Temple 
at  Cardston  praised,  64 — A  Missionary  healed  through  faith,  65. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   85 

Recollections  of  past  teachings,  85 — Quotation  from  "Rays  of  Living 
Light,"  86 — The  example  of  the  Pioneers,  86. 

Stevens,  Elder  Kenneth  R   66 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  ...102 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   60 

Early  guide  service,  60 — Beginning  of  the  Bureau  of  Information,  61 — 
Interest  in  the  work  manifested,  61. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  session   119 

Third  Day,  Morning  Session    96 

Vetterli,  Reed  -   24 

Appeal  to  obey  traffic  laws,  24. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   75 

President  Grant's  covenants,  75 — Conference  gatherings  remarkable, 
75 — Progress  of  the  Church,  75 — Personal  responsibility,  76 — Visit  to 
Canadian  Mission,  77 — Responsibility  of  citizenship,  77 — Love  for  the 
Lord  shown  in  keeping  the  commandments,  78 — Nephi's  words  to  his 
brethren,  78. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   69 

The  American  Constitution  inspired,  69 — Events  foretold  by  Jefferson, 
69— North  Carolina  politics,  71 — Destruction  of  food  decried,  71 — 
Position  of  the  Church,  72. 

Wood,  Elder  Edward  J  150 

Suggests  prayer  for  President  Grant,  150. 

Young,  Clifford  E   18 

Following  good  advice  brings  security,  18 — President  Young's  epistle 
to  Samuel  Brannan,  18 — Success  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  19. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    58 

Tribute  to  missionaries  laboring  in  New  England,  58 — The  responsi- 
bility of  the  Seventy,  58 — Power  in  the  Priesthood  to  bring  about 
changes  59 — United  effort  necessary  to  success,  60. 


1 


(Book  diswdquMdsihA, 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.   We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 

following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Unto  the  Hills  (The  Spoken  Word) 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Pioneer  Stories 

by  Preston  Nibley  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government 

by  John  A.  Widtsoe  .$1.75 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Prompt  Service  by  McriL 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

The  Text  Book  for  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorums  lor  1942 

Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentor; 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  In 
the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  early  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

SPECIALLY  PRICED  AT  $2.00 


Stories  of  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

(Their  Authors  and  Composers) 
By 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

"The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been  a  singing  people.  Some 
of  their  greatest  sermons  and  messages  have  come  through  the  avenue  of 
song." 

So  writes  the  author,  George  D.  Pyper,  in  this  fascinating  story  of  an 
essential  feature  in  the  lives  of  a  culture  loving  people. 

Well  illustrated  throughout,  this  work  will  take  a  high  place  in  literary 
circles,  and  will  win  a  permanent  spot  in  the  hearts  of  all  lovers  of  great 
and  good  music. 

PRICE — $1.50 


VISUAL  AIDS 

To  be  visually  prepared  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  assets  to  a  teacher. 

For  particulars  and  descriptive  literature  we  invite  you  to  communicate 
with  us. 

We  are  prepared  to  give  demonstrations  in  all  types  of  equipment 
and  to  offer  our  Three  S  plan:  SURVEY,  SUGGESTIONS,  SERVICE. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPMY 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah 


