5ixty=Ninth 
Semi=Annual 
Conference 


-OF— 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS, 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  6th,  7th  and 
9th,  1898,  with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


Also  an  Account  of  the  General  Conference  of 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 


COPYRIGHTED  1898.    ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED. 


Deseret  News  Company. 
1898. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

OF 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Sixty-ninth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  commenced  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10 
a.  m.  on  Thursday,  Oct.  6,  1898,  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow  presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present  on 
the  stand  there  were  o'f  the  First 
Presidency — Lorenzo  Snow,  George 
Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph  F.  Smith;  of 
the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles- 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Brigham 
Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Mar- 
riner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley  and  Abraham 
Owen  Woodruff;  Patriarch, John  Smith; 
of  the  First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enties—Seymour B.  Young,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  George  Reynolds  and  Jona- 
than G.  Kimball;  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric— "William  B.  Preston,  Robert 
T.  Burton  and  John  R.  Winder. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 
Our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 

Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliverer,  our  all. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  John  Nich- 
olson. 


The  hymn  which  begins  as  folio wa 
was  sung  by  the  choir: 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 
Zion,  kept  by  power  divine; 

AH  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 
Though  the  world  in  arms  combine; 

Happy  Zion, 
What  a  favored  lot  is  thine. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

OPENING  REMARKS , 

Brethren  and  sisters,  at  the  com- 
mencement of  this  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference I  wish  to  say  a  few  words.  I 
suppose  that  many  of  the  audience 
now  before  me  have  come  from  a  long 
distance  to  meet  with  us  in  'this  gen- 
eral conference;  and  that  all  have  been 
moved  to  gather  here  by  pure  motives 
-by  a  desire  to  improve  and  perfect 
themselves  in  matters  that  pertain  to 
their  usefulness  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
In  order  that  we  may  not  be  disap- 
pointed in  this,  it  becomes  necessary 
that  we  prepare  our  hearts  to  receive 
and  profit  by  the  suggestions  that 
may  be  made  by  the  speakers  during 
the  progress  of  the  Conference,  which 
may  be  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  I  have  thought,  and  still  think, 
that  our  being  edified  does  not  so  much 
depend  upon  the  speaker  as  upon  our- 
selves. When  we  come  together  on 
occasions  like  this  we  are  entitled  to 


2  GENERAL  C 

leceive  something  that  will  he  of  great 
importance  to  us  in  our    lives.  We 
ought   to   understand— and  I  presume 
that  we  do  generally— that  the  work 
which  we  have  come  into  this  life  to 
perform  cannot  be  dene  to  the  glory 
of  God  or  to  the  satisfaction  of  our- 
selves merely  by  our  own  natural  in- 
telligence.    We  are  dependent  upon  the 
Spirit  of    the  Lord  to  aid  us  and  to 
manifest  to  us  from  time  to  time  what 
is  necessary  for  us  to  accomplish  un- 
der  the  peculiar   circumstances  that 
may  surround  us.     It  is  the  privilege 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  when  they  get 
into  difficulties,   to  have  supernatural 
power  of  God,  and  in    faith,  day  by 
day;  to  secure  from  the  circumstances 
which  may  surround  us  that  which  will 
be  beneficial  and    advance    us  in  the 
principles  of  holiness   and  sanctifica- 
tion,  that  we  may  as  far  as  possible 
be  like  our  Father.      It  certainly  is 
possible  to  advance  ourselves  toward 
the .  perfections  of  the  Almighty  to  a 
very  considerable  extent,    to    say  the 
least     In  fact,  we  are  commanded  to 
be  perfect,  even    as    our    Father  in 
heaven  is  perfect.      From  everything 
that  arises,  whether  if  be  of    a  dis- 
agreeable nature  or    of    a  pleasant 
character,  we  should  derive  informa- 
tion and  secure  power  to  serve  our- 
selves in  the  path  of  exaltation  and 
glory  over  which  we  are  moving.  I 
know  that  we  should  never  have  been 
able  to  endure  the  severe  trials  that 
we  have  experienced  during  the  past 
few  years,  had  we  not  been  gradually 
educated  in  times  past  and  prepared 
to  struggle  with    difficulties    as  we 
passed  along. 

I  desire  to  suggest  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  this  morning  that  they  should 
not  lose  sight  of  the  object  which  has 
prompted  us  to  gather  ourselves  to- 
gether, that  we  may  not  return  to  our 
homes  without  having  received  lessons 
of  encouragement  to  assist  us  in  the 
surrounding  difficulties.  It  is  impos- 
sible for  Latter-dav  Saints  to  move 
along  in  the  path  of  glory  we  are  now 
treading  unless  they  devote  them- 
selves fully  and  wholly  to  the  work 
and  make  the  preparation  which  is  ab- 
solutely necessary  to  meet  and  over- 


OhFERENCE 

come  the  temptations  that  might  other- 
wise overpower  us.  Here,  I  suppose, 
are  brethren  and  sisters  who  hold  im- 
portant positions  in  the  Church  and 
have  most  solemn  and  pleasing  duties 
to  perform,  and  it  is  their  ardent  de- 
sire that  they  may  be  properly  quali- 
fied to  discharge  these  sacred  duties 
satisfactorily  to  themselves  and  in  a 
way  that  shall  promote  the  interests 
of  those  they  preside  over. 

There  is  something  grand  in  the  con- 
sideration of    the  fact  that  the  Lord 
loves  us  with  a  most  ardent  love.  The 
love  that  a  woman  exercises  toward 
her  offspring  cannot    equal    the  love 
that  God  exercises  towards  us.  He 
never  leaves  us.     He  is  alwTays  before 
us,  and  upon  our  right  hand  and  our 
left  hand.      Continually  He  watches 
over  us.      The  antideluvians  rejected 
the  Lord  in  their  day.     The  message 
which  He  sent  to  them  was    of  the 
highest  importance.      Upon  their  ac- 
ceptance    of     the   message  depend- 
ed    their     temporal     and  spiritual 
salvation.         But      they  rejected 
it.       When      the     Lord  communi- 
cates to  man  that  which  pertains  to 
his  most  important  i!it°rests,  it  is  a 
solemn  and  serious  thing  ft  v  him  to 
reject  so  direct  a  message.     liut  the 
antideluvians  rejected  the  message.even 
the  fullness  of  the  Gospel,  as  it  is  now 
preached  to  us.     If  they  had  then  em- 
braced   (he   opportunity    thv.y  migiiL 
have  received  the  fullness   of  the  Gos- 
pel and  been  prepared, when  Christ  was 
crucified  and  arose  from  the  dead,  to 
receive  through  the  resurrection  of  their 
glorious  bodies,  free  from  /disease  and 
corruption — the  most    glorious  object 
that  ever  man  set    his    mind  upon. 
Those  people  failed  to  embrace  that 
opportunity;  but  the  Lord  did  not  fail 
to  love  them  and  to  have  regard  for 
them,  and  He  gave  them  another  op- 
portunity, although  it  was  about  two 
thousand  five  hundred    years  after- 
wards.    After  Jesus  was  crucified,  He 
went  and  visited  that  people  and  gave 
them  the  opportunity  of  receiving  that 
which  they  rejected  when  Noah  pro- 
claimed to    them    the    principles  of 
spiritual  and  temporal  salvation. 
Now,  in  some  respects  we  differ  from 


■ 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


any  other  class  of  people.  Opportuni- 
ties are  before  us  which  are  not  before 
them,  though  at  some  future  time  they 
will  have  the  same  opportunities  as 
we  have  received  and  acted  upon.  But 
our  prospects  are  different  from  their 
prospects;  things  are  required  at  our 
hands  which  are  not  required  of  them; 
and  there  could  not  be  placed  before 
men  more  glorious  prospects  than  are 
placed  before  the  Saints.  No  mortal 
man  could  wish  anything  greater  or 
that  will  ultimately  prove  more  satis- 
factory. Everything  that  pertains  to 
perfect  peace,  happiness,  glory  and  ex- 
altation is  before  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  should  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this,  and 
keep  it  actively  before  us.  We  should 
not  let  our  prospects  be  darkened  in 
the  least  by  doing  that  which  is  not 
acceptable  before  the  Lord. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  the 
Lord  may  be  with  us  during  this  Con- 
ference; that  He  may  be  with  those 
who  address  you,  and  especially  with 
you,  that  you  may  receive  and  com- 
prehend some  principle  or  some  sug- 
gestion that  will  be  of  the  most  sacred 
importance  to  you. 

The  brethren  will  now  address  you, 
and  through  the  exercise  of  your  faith 
you  will  be  greatly  and  abundantly 
blessed;  which  may  God  grant,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 
Condition  of  missionary  fields— Preparation  for  the 

ministry  —  Relating  to  immigration— Providing 

employment— efficacy  of  faith. 

The  six  months  that  have  passed 
since  our  last  General  Conference  was 
held  here  have  not  been  particularly 
fruitful  in  changes  in  the  missionary 
field,  or  in  any  other  direction,  except- 
ing the  loss  of  our  beloved  President. 
The  Elders  have  been  blessed  in  their 
labors  in  all  the  countries  where  they 
are  endeavoring  to  propagate  the  Gos- 
pel, and  more  have  returned  from  their 
fields  than  the  number  of  those  who 
have  gone.  We  have,  therefore,  a 
smaller  number  of  Elders  now  in  the 
various  fields  than  we  had  at  our  last 
Conference.  There  is  one  thing  that 
has  been    noticed    in  the  reports  that 


have  come  from  the  fields,  and  that  is, 
there  is  more  diligence  on  the  part  of 
the  missionaries  and  a  better  class  of 
work  is  being  done.  There  has  been 
more  care  taken  in  sending  out  mis- 
sionaries; more  strictness  observed  to 
have  men  go  out  who  would  not  bring 
discredit  to  the  name  of  Latter-day 
Saint  by  their  indiscretions  or  by  their 
lack  of  faithfulness.  It  may  be  said,  I 
think,  truthfully,  that  the  standard  is 
being  raised.  Our  young  men  are  en- 
tering more  into  the  spirit  of  the  work, 
and  are  seeking  to  qualify  themselves 
in  a  manner  that  will  be  more  accepta- 
ble to  the  Lord  and  more  satisfactory 
to  their  fellow  servants.  There  is 
plenty  of  room  for  improvement  in 
this  respect.  There  was  a  time- 
probably  many  of  you  can  remember — 
when  if  a  man  were  called  on  a  mission 
it  was  frequently  asked  what  he  had 
done  that  he  should  be  called  On  a 
mission.  But  now  the  question  is  asked, 
if  a  man  is  eligible  and  not  called, 
"What  have  I  done  that  I  should  not 
be  called  to  go  and  preach  the  Gos- 
pel?" I  think  that  is  the  rule  at  the 
present  time  among  the  Saints  through- 
out Zion.  It  is  looked  upon  as  an 
honor  to  go  out  and  preach  the  Gospel. 
I  was  talking  to  several  strangers  last 
night,  and  we  were  conversing  about 
our  sending  out  missionaries,  and  how 
quickly  they  responded  to  the  call.  I 
remarked  that  a  young  man  was  al- 
ways looked  upon  more  favorably  by 
the  gentler  sex  if  he  were  called  on  a 
mission  than  he  would  be  if  he  were 
not  called.  I  believe  this  is  true.  I 
believe  the  girls  among  us  look  with 
favor  upon  the  young  men  who  are 
called  to  go  on  missions,  and  they  feel 
that  their  lovers  are  slighted  if  they 
are  not  called  when  they  are  at  the 
proper  age;  and  if  they  marry,  they 
feel  as  though  their  husbands  are  not 
taken  notice  of  as  they  should  be  if 
they  are  not  called.  This  is  a  good 
spirit  and  feeling. 

We  want  our  young  men  to  qualify 
themselves  for  this  labor.  Education 
is  easily  procured  now.  There  was  a 
time,  in  the  early  days,  when  educa- 
tion was  not  common— that  is,  it  was 
net  uncommon  for  very  able  men  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  but  meager  education.     This  was 
the  case  with  the  first  and  most  promi- 
nent Elders  in  the  Church.      But  all 
this  has  changed.     In  those  days,  if  a 
man  were  not  educated  it  did  not  at- 
tract much  attention,  for  the  reason 
that  education  was  not  general— that 
is,  higher  education;  but  now,  through 
the  increase  of  colleges  and  universities 
and  educational  facilities,  it  is  rather 
discreditable  to  a  man    not  to  be  edu- 
cated, because  education  is  within  the 
reach   of  all.      Therefore,  our  young- 
men  who  "go  on  missions  should  bear 
this  in  mind  and  should  endeavor  to 
qualify  themselves  for  their  missions. 
There  is  no  reason  why  we  should  be 
behind  any  people  in  this  respect.  It 
should  be  a  stimulus  to    our  young 
men  to  seek    for    education    and  to 
qualify  themselves,   when   they  know 
that  this  is  the  feeling  and  the  opinion 
of  the  world  concerning  men  who  go 
forth  as  ministers  of  the  Gospel.  But 
a  great  many  lose  their  faith  because 
they  do  not  understand  how  to  avail 
themselves  of    the  advantages  which 
they  have.     This  is  especially  so  in  re- 
gard to  college  education.     Our  young 
men  who  go  away  to    get  education 
come  back  in  many  instances  with  their 
faith  weakened,  because  they  do  not 
revere  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and 
hold  fast  to  them  as  immutable  truths. 
But,  notwithstanding  these  drawbacks, 
I  am  sure  we  are  all  gratified  at  the 
progress  that  is  being  made  by  our 
young  people,  and  I  hope   it   will  con- 
tinue.     Some  perhaps  may  not  use 
their  education  aright,  and  may  have 
their  faith  weakened;  but  this  is  not 
the  case  generally,  and  I  trust  will  not 
be  the  case,  but  that  our  young  people 
will  learn  to  obtain  higher  education 
without  becoming  imbued  with  the  be- 
lief and  the  skepticism  that  prevails 
in  the  world. 

Our  Elders  among  the  nations  have 
been  very  successful,  the  Lord,  is  bless- 
ing them,  tnd  great  progress  is  being 
made  in  various  directions.  We  are 
warning  the  people,  and  we  are  bring- 
ing the  honest  in  heart  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth.  There  is  one  course 
that  has  been  taken  which  I  think 
will  be  att^rded  with  good  effects,  that 


is,  counseling  the  Saints  in  the  various 
lands  where  they  embrace  the  Gospel 
to  remain  quiet  for  awhile;  to  not  be 
anxious  to  break  up  their  homes  to 
gather  to  Zion.  This  counsel  is  being 
given  by  the  Elders  now  in  various 
lands,  and  it  will  be  attended  with  ex- 
cellent effects,  because  the  converts 
will  be  accustomed  to  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel,  and  acquainted  with  the 
circumstances  which  surround  the 
people,  and  more  familiar  with  thi 
trials  they  may .  have  to  meet.  Their 
faith  will  become  stronger,  and  they 
will  be  better  able  to  withstand  the 
trials  and  difficulties  they  will  have  to 
contend  with  when  they  do  emigrate 
to  Zion.  Most  of  you  know  how  this 
operates.  A  man  that  is  new  in  the 
Church  and  has  no  experience  is  not 
in  a  position  to  resist  trials  that  he 
could  subsequently.  By  having  the 
Saints  remain  in  the  places  where 
they  dwell  they  gain  experience  and 
strength.  Besides  this,  they  are 
able  to  help  the  Elders,  and  the  Elders 
do  not  find  it  so  difficult  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  because  they  have  the  support 
and  the  assistance  of  those  who  are 
members  of  the  Church  and  who  live 
in  organized  branches  of  the  Church. 
I  am  sure  that  we  will  see  the  good 
effects  of  this.  We  shall  not  have  so 
many  spending  means  and  time  to  come 
here,  and  then  apostatizing,  and  be- 
coming tired  and  desiring  to  return 
again  to  where  they  came  from.  This 
effect,  I  am  sure,  will  be  noticeable 
throughout  the  wards  and  Stakes  of 
Zion. 

In  our  own  land  the  Lord  has  been 
very  kind  to  us.  He  has  prospered  us. 
He  has  given  us  good  crops,  and  the 
people  are  in  better  circumstances, 
speaking  generally,  than  they  were  a 
year  ago.  And  He  will  continue  to 
bless  us.  There  is  one  thing  that  we 
should  attend  to  as  a  people,  and  that 
is,  diversify  our  pursuits.  Our  cities 
should  not  be  crowded  with  unem- 
ployed men.  There  is  plenty  of  op- 
portunity in  this  State  for  men  to 
work  out  for  themselves  a  subsistence. 
I  often  think  of  how  it  was  when  the 
people  landed  here  in  the  beginning. 
They    had    but    very    little    to  eat, 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


5 


very  little  clothing,  and  but  few  tools; 
but  they  came  on  this"  ground,  and 
they  built  themselves  houses — such  as 
they  were — and  they  turned  in  and 
cultivated  the  soil,  to  raise  their  food, 
and  they  succeeded  without  anyone 
but  the  Lord  to  help  them.  If  our 
brethren  who  are  unemployed  would 
ask  those  who  have  had  experience, 
they  could  tell  them  how  to  make  a 
living  without  expecting  somebody  to 
feed  them  or  to  furnish  them  with 
that  which  they  need.  It  is  wrong  for 
them  to  walk  around  unemployed.  In 
the  spring  of  the  year,  if  they  have 
not  some  other  employment,  they 
should  get  a  piece  of  land  (there  are 
plenty  of  people  who  would  let  them 
have  a  piece  on  some  terms)  and  raise 
their  own  food,  or  try  to  raise  it.  Have 
somebody  teach  them  how  to  do  it,  if 
they  do  not  know  themselves.  Our 
people  are  willing  to  assist  the  in- 
dustrious and  the  persevering.  None 
need  go  short.  There  is  plenty  of 
room  on  every  hand.  You  need  not 
go  out  of  the  State  of  Utah;  there  is 
land  in  abundance  to  be  obtained  here, 
and  obtained  easily;  and  if  we  can  get 
land  and  are  healthy,  every  man  ought 
to  be  able  to  sustain  himself  and  his 
family.  There  is  no  reason  why  he 
should  not.  Our  young  men  should 
not  be  contented  to  be  looking  around 
for  somebody  to  give  them  employ- 
ment. Every  man  should  seek  to  be 
able  to  employ  himself,  and  not  be 
hanging  around  stores  and  offices  ask- 
ing for  somebody  to  give  him  em- 
ployment. Let  him  strike  out  for 
himself,  and  make  a  living  for  himself. 
He  can  do  it  in  this  country.  There 
are  plenty  of  facilities  for  every  young 
man.  There  is  no  need  to  go  to  Cali- 
fornia, Montana,  or  to  the  mines;  go 
to  some  place  in  the  State  and  build 
the  State  up,  build  up  Zion,  and  take 
example  from  those  who  have  pre- 
ceded us,  who  have  shown  what  can 
be  done  in  building  up  a  commonwealth 
and  making  a  rich  people.  For,  not  - 
withstanding  our  difficulties,  we  are  a 
comparatively  rich  people. 

I  alluded  to  a  conversation 
I  had  last  evening  With 
some      gentlemen.       Another  thing 


I  mentioned  comes  to  my  mind,  and 
when  it  was  told  wonder  was  expressed 
how  we  could  do  it.  I  related  how 
years  ago,  before  the  railroad  was 
completed,  we  sent  down  every  year 
for  several  years  500  teams,  500  team- 
sters, and  guards,  and  loaded  those 
teams  with  provisions  to  feed  the 
poor,  whom  the  teams  brought  up,  and 
also  to  feed  the  teamsters.  This  was 
done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Thou- 
sands of  people  were  brought  into  this 
country  in  this  way.  Now,  we  did 
not  think  that  was  very  heavy.  I  never 
heard,  that  I  know  of,  a  murmur  from 
anybody  respecting  this  labor.  Just 
think  of  the  cost  of  it!  The  hiring 
of  500  teams  for  the  summer  (it  was 
practically  a  whole  year's  work),  500 
men  and  guards,  and  then  the  pro- 
visions to  feed  the  people  who  were 
brought  from  the  Missouri  up  here. 
We  can  do  great  works  if  we  are 
united  and  have  faith.  But  where 
people  have  no  faith,  and  they  say,  "I 
cannot,"  "It  is  too  much."  They 
ought  to  feel  that  they  can  do  anything 
that  is  right.  We  as  a  people  can  do 
anything  the  Lord  requires  of  us.  We 
ought  to  have  faith  in  these  directions. 
But  we  fall  into  the  ways  of  the  world 
and  into  thinking  as  they  do.  Why, 
if  we  do  that,  we  become  a  common- 
place people,  of  no  value  particularly. 
The  strength  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  their  faith.  By  that  they  can  ac- 
complish anything  they  set  their 
hearts  to  do  if  it  is  right.  God  will 
be  with  them  and  sustain  them.  He 
has  done  it  all  the  time.  We  have 
accomplished  apparent  impossibilities 
through  the  power  and  blessing  of  God 
and  the  faith  of  the  people.  If  we 
have  faith  we  can  accomplish  all 
things  that  are  required  at  our  hands. 
We  should  not  say,  "I  cannot  do  it" — 
"it  is  too  much  for  us."  That  ought 
not  to  be  the  feeling  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint.  We  can  preach  the  Gospel,  we 
can  gather  the  people,  we  can  build 
temples,  we  can  build  houses  of  wor- 
ship, and  we  can  do  everything  that 
is  required  of  us,  by  the  principle  of 
faith,  actively  exhibited  in  works. 
But  the  feeling  that  has  been  growing 
among  us  is  to  drop  on  somebody  else 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  them  to  help  us.  You  would  be 
surprised  to  know  how  many  there  are 
who  come  and  want  the  Church  to 
help  them.  They  pile  on  to  the 
Church,  and  forget  that  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  have  to  exercise  faith 
themselves.  If  they  get  into  a  close 
place  instead  of  going  to  God  and 
asking  Him  to  help  them,  and  having 
faith  that  God  is  able  to  assist  them 
in  carrying  their  loads  and  open  the 
way  before  them,  they  must  come  to 
the  Church.  "Cannot  the  Trustee- 
in-Trust  help  me  do  this?"  They  can- 
not build  meeting  houses;  they  cannot 
do  this  or  the  other;  it  is  too  much 
for  them;  and  they  want  the  Church 
to  help  them.  Well,  it  is  a  wrong 
feeling.  We  should  seek  to  help  our- 
selves, and  to  call  upon  God,  who  is  as 
near  the  individuals  in  the  settlements 
as  He  is  to  us.  He  is  as  willing  to 
listen  to  the  prayers  of  an  Elder  in 
the  remotest  parts  of  the  earth  as  He 
is  in  Zion.  He  is  willing  to  hear  all 
our  cries,  if  we  have  faith.  I  tell  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  must  cul- 
tivate this  faith  and  this  confidence  in 
God.  One  reason,  I  believe,  that  the 
Lord  has  required  the  Elders  to  go 
without  purse  or  scrip  is  that  we  may 
have  faith  developed  in  the  earth,  that 
the  Elders  shall  come  back  filled  with 
faith.  Why?  Because  God  has  heard 
and  answered  their  prayers  in  the 
utmost  extremity.  When  they  have 
been  in  the  greatest  difficulty  and  it 
has  seemed  impossible  for  them  to  get 
relief,  the  Lord  has  heard  their  prayers. 
These  men,  returning  by  hundreds  as 
they  are,  ought  to  have  faith  and  to 
increase  faith  throughout  the  entire 
community.  There  is  no  doubt  they 
do  have  a  good  effect.  This  communi- 
ty is  being  elevated  by  this  kind  of 
training.  But  there  is  still  plenty  of 
room  for  us  to  cultivate  faith,  and  not 
imagine  that  we  must  fall  on  the 
Church  for  everything  that  we  need  or 
that  we  have  difficulty  In  accomplishing. 
The  Trustee-in-Trust  cannot  respond 
to  all  the  calls.  There  is  not  means 
enough  at  his  command.  Therefore, 
we  should  seek  individually  to  do  our 
part  towards  this  work.  It  should  be 
our  pleasure  to  labor  for  Zion  in  every 


direction  ar^|  to  the  utmost  of  our 
power.  There  is  no  labor  on  the 
earth  so  pleasurable  as  laboring  for 
Zion,  whether  in  the  ministerial  field 
or  at  home  in  any  field  that  may  be 
assigned  us.  There  is  no  greater  work, 
and  no  work  that  God  smiles  upon  and 
blesses  as  He  does  that.  The  man 
that  does  it  is  a  happy  man,  and  will 
be  a  happy  man,  who  labors  for  Zion 
with  singleness  of  purpose  and  with  his 
heart  devoted  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  MATHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

Guidance  ot  the  Holy  Spirit — Perpetuity  of  the 
Church — Divine  authority  of  the  Priesthood — The 
power  of  Faith — Necessity  of  strictness  in  the 
payment  of  Tithing. 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  am  grati- 
fied for  the  privilege  of  meecing  with 
you  at  this  Conference,  and  I  desire,  in 
performing  my  duty,  to  enjoy  the  sug- 
gestions of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  object, 
as  I  understand  it,  of  our  general  con- 
ferences,, and  proportionately  the  Stake 
and  ward  conferences  of  the  Church,  is 
that  we  may  be  strengthened  in  our 
faith,  that  we  may  be  encouraged  in  the 
performance  of  our  duties. 

There  is  no  question  of  greaiter  im- 
portance than  the  one  which  every  man 
and  woman  should  ask  himself  or  her- 
self personally:  'Am  I  doing  my  duty 
as  a  Latter-day  Saint?"  Am  I  living  in 
strict  harmony  with  the  sacred  coven- 
ants which  I  have  made  witn  the  Lord? 
If  I  am  there  is  a  testimony  in  my 
heart  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  me, 
and  if  I  am  not  there  is  a  testimony 
that  I  am  not  as  acceptable  as  I  should 
be."  And  if  any  one  who  is  not  doing 
his  full  duty  is  not  chided  by  the  Holy 
Spirit,  he  is  in  a  dangerous  condition, 
for  he  has  deadened  the  influence  of  the 
power  within  him. 

I  have  been  impressed  so  many  times 
that  it  almost  seems  to  be  a  hobby  in 
my  own  mind,  by  the  statement  that 
President  Woodruff  made  to  us  on  sev- 
eral occasions;  I  think  not  only  in  this 
tabernacle  but  in  other  places  through- 
out the  Church,  and  possibly  in  his 
writings;  that  President  Brigham 
Young  appeared  to  him  on  a  certain 
occasion,  I  believe  it  was  when  he  was 


ELDER  MATH  IAS  F.  COWLEY. 


in  exile'  in  Arizona.  President  Woodruff 
was  on  hi's  way  to  attend  a  conference 
and  the  departed  Prophet  presented 
himself  to  this  living'  Apostle,  in  the 
flesh,  and  President  Woodruff  asked 
him:  "Are  you  going  to  attend  confer- 
ence with  us,  President  Young?  and  will 
you  address  us  on  the  occasion ?"  'Presi- 
dent Toung  replied  to  him:  "Brother 
Woodruff,  I  have  done  my  talking  in 
the  flesh;  that  remains  for  you  to  do; 
hut  there  is  one  thing  I  want  you  to  do 
and  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  is  to  tell 
them  to  get  the  spirit  of  God  and  keep 
it  with  them."  This  sounds  a  little  pe- 
culiar because  it  is  the  common  injunc- 
tion that  is  laid  down  in  the  Scriptures, 
that  has  been  written  in  the  revelations 
of  God  in  every  dispensation  and  has 
been  uttered  by  every  Prophet,  and  for 
that  matter  it  has  been  urged  by  every 
faithful  Elder  in  his  ministration,  ana 
by  every  faithful  Bishop  of  the  Church, 
and  every  president  of  a  Stake,  to 
seek  for  the  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  to  cultivate  it  that  it  may  be 
unto  us  a  constant  companion.  Con- 
sidering this  it  would  seem  a  little  pecu- 
liar that  a  departed  Prophet  of  God 
should  come  to  a  living  Prophet  and  tell 
such  an  apparently  common  message. 
But  it  is  not  common;  it  is  the  import- 
ant key-note  to  everything  in  this 
Church.  When  the  Latter-day  Saints 
first  heard  the  sound  of  the  Gospel  in 
their  native  lands,  they  were  led  to  re- 

a* 

ceive  it  with  joy  and  satisfaction,  but 
they  were  unacquainted  with  the  whis- 
perings of  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  had  been 
taught  for  many  generations  that  the 
living  Spirit  of  God  as  it  was  enjoyed 
in  the  ministrations  of  the  Savior  and 
his  Apostles  in  the  land  of  Palestine 
during  their  ministrations  on  the  earth, 
was  not  to  be  expected  in  this  enlight- 
ened age;  and  that  the  conditions  Which 
were  associated  with  the  various  dis- 
pensations of  the  Gospel  committed  to 
man  from  the  time  of  Adam  down  to 
the  present  day,  the  conditions  asso- 
ciated with  the  enjoyment  of  the  spirit 
of  revelation  to  guide  every  man  and 
woman  that  should  embrace  the  Gos- 
pel, were  not  to  be  expected  in 
the  nineteenth  century.  And  con- 
sequently when  the  Gospel  was 
restored     to     the     earth,     and  the 


Eiders  went  forth  declaring  the  same, 
it  was  a  matter  of  astonishment  to 
those  who  heard  it  and  who  did  not 
have  the  spirit  to  receive  it,  and  were 
not  looking  for  such  a  message;  but 
the  hearts  of  those  who  received  the 
Gospel  had  been,  in  most  instances, 
prepared  for  it.  They  were  looking  for 
such  a  message.  Their  hearts  were 
filled  with  joy  and  pleasure  when  they 
embraced  the  Gospel.  They  received 
a  living  testimony  for  themselves. 
That  testimony  was  not  con- 
fined to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  nor 
to  his  immediate  associates.  It  was  not 
confined  to  any  council  or  quorum  in 
the  holy  Priesthood,  but  the  promise 
was  universal;  that  whosoever  -would 
receive  the  Gospel  might  not  only  re- 
ceive a  remission  of  their  sins,  but  also 
a  living  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Spirit;  they  should  know  that  God  had 
spoken  from  the  heavens;  they  should 
receive  a  witness  that  their  sins  had 
been  remitted;  and  when  this  testimony 
came  to  those  who  embraced  it,  what 
joy,  wlhat  satisfaction  it  produced  in 
their  hearts!  And  during  all  the  his- 
tory 'Of  'tlhis  Church,  now  sixty- 
eight  and  one-half  years  in 
this  dispensation,  it  fis  so  organized 
and,  in  the  purposes  of  God,  is  so  de- 
signed as  to  perpetuate  itself.  Men 
have  passed  away;  the  Prophet  of  God 
and  his  brother,  Hyrum,  who  stood  by 
him  in  all  the  trials  and  tribulations 
of  life,  and  who  was  also  a  Prophet  of 
the  living  God,  they  laid  down  their 
lives;  they  sealed  their  testimony  with 
their  blood;  but  the  work  did  not  die 
with  them.  The  Lord  had  organized  the 
Church  in  such  a  way  that  when  the 
Presidency  was  dissolved  by  the  death 
of  the  Prophet,  Twelve  Apostles  should 
preside  over  the  Church,  until  the 
Presidency  should  be  organized  again; 
and  so  this  organization  has  been  per- 
petuated on  the  earth;  and  when  men 
have  been  called  to  positions,  they  have 
been  called  by  the  spirit  of  revelation 
from  God,  just  as  literally,  and  just  as 
distinctly  as  those  that  Paul  spoke  of 
in  the  13th  chapter  of  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostlles.  When  the  Apostles  were  as- 
sembled and  considering  the  appoint- 
ment of  Elders  to  laibor  (in  the  minis- 
try, and  as  they  fasted,  the  Hoiy  Ghost 
said  unto   them:    "Separate  unto  me 


8  GENERAL 

Barnabas  and  Saul  for  the  work  where 
unlto  I  have  called  them."  And  they 
were  called  by  the  Spirit  of  revelation, 
and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those 
who  had  been  called  of  God 
to  administer  in  His  name 
in  the  flesh;  and  this  is  the 
only  way  that  the  work  of 
the  Lord  has  ever  been  per- 
petuated in  the  earth  in  any 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel.  It  was  so 
■in  the  days  of  Moses,  who  had  received 
the  higher  Priesthood,  which  holds  the 
keys  otf  receiving  revelations  from  God 
far  the  government  of  His  affairs 
among  the  children  of  men,  and  With- 
out which  Priesthood,  the  Lord  has  said 
the  power  of  Godliness  is  not  manifest 
unto  men  in  the  flesh.  But  Moses 
honored  this  Priesthood,  and  he  sought 
to  sanctify  all  his  people,  just  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  hlis  successors  have 
sought  to  sanctify  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  they  might  come  to  a  high- 
er standard  in  the  enjoyment  of  the 
Gospel,  and  the  authority  and  power 
of  the  holy  Priesthood.  He  sought  to 
sanctify  them  that  they  rmight  have  the 
the  manifestations  of  the  glory  of  God, 
and  he  sought  to  promote  them  to  that 
standard,  but  when  he  wenlt  up  to  com- 
mune with  tlhe  Lord  on  Mount 
Sinai,  he  had  to  draw  a  boundary  Mne, 
and  say  to  them  that  they  should  not 
pass  over  it  because  of  their  unworthl- 
ness;  and  he  went  up  and  communed 
with  the  Lord,  and  he  received  the 
mind  and  will  of  the«Lord;  and  when  he 
came  dawn  to  communicate  it  to  the 
House  of  Israeli,  they  could  not  look 
upon  his  eountenace,  because  it  shone 
with  the  Spirit  of  God— it  shone  with 
that  power  of  Godliness  which  was  re- 
flected through  the  Priesthood  which 
the  Prophet  Moses  held;  but  they  could 
not  be  sanctified,  far  the  reason  that 
they  rejected  the  higher  Jaw  of  the 
Gospel,  which  had  been  delivered  to  the 
Prophet  Mioses  and  through  which  he 
sought  to  sanctify  them.  As  they  were 
unworthy  to  continue  in  these  higher 
blessings  the  Lord  decreed  that  they 
should  continue  in  the  ordinances  of  the 
Lesser  Priesthood-the  administration  of 
sacrifices,  symbolical  of  the  sacrifice  of 
the  Son  of  God  for  the  redemption  of 
mankind.  He  was  called  to  do  that 
work;  to  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
House  of  Israel;  a  man  that  was  called 
of  God  by  revelation--a,  man  that  had 
been  faithful. 


CONFERENCE 

Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun,  was  always 
inspired  with  that  faith  in  God  spoken 
of  this  morning  by  President  Cannon. 
He  did  not  stagger  at  the  command  of 
God,  or  at  the  purposes  of  the  Al- 
mighty in  designing  the  plan  for  en- 
tering into  the  land  which  had 
been  promised  to  Abraham  and  his  seed 
after  him  for  an  everlasting  posses- 
sion. You  may  read  in  the  later  chap- 
ters of  iDeuteronomy  how  Joshua  was 
called.  The  Lord  said  unto  Moses: 
"Take  unto  thee  Joshua,  the  son  of 
Nun,  in  whom  is  the  spirit  of  wisdom, 
and  lay  thine  hand  upon  him."  He  was 
called  of  God  by  revelation,  and  was 
oirdained  to  stand  'at  the  head  of  the 
House  of  Israel  and  to  preside  in  the 
admlinistratdon  of  those  ordinances 
which  were  symbolical  of  the  atone- 
ment of  the  Savior,  and  which  con- 
tinued in  Israel  until  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  God,  who'  introduced  the  Gospel 
again  in  i'ts  fulness  and  restored  the 
higher  Priesthood. 

The  work  of  God  in  this  generation 
has  been  established  just  as  literally 
as  it  was  anciently.  The  brethren  who 
have  been  called  to  preside  over  this 
Church  have  been  selected  by  the 
Spirit  of  revelation,  and  it  has  been 
manifest  very  strikingly  af  late  in  the 
calling  of  President  Lorenzo  Snow, 
and  of  brethren  to  preside  over  mis- 
sions. Brethren  have  communed  with 
the  Lord;  they  have  sought  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord  to  know  'about 
these  matters,  and  they  have  received 
it  by  the  (Spirit  of  revelation.  I  want 
to  bear  my  testimony  concerning  the 
principle  of  faith.  We  do  not  have  it  as 
we  o'ught  to  have  it;  it  is  not  exempli- 
fied in  our  lives  as  it  ought  to  be;  we 
ought  to  have  the  faith  that  character- 
ized Nephi,  when  he  was  sent  to  ob- 
tain the.  plates  af  Lalban,  and  when  his 
brethren  staggered  af  the  thought  of 
their  going  to  face  the  probable  danger 
of  performing  that  duty  which  had 
been  assigned  to  them  by  their  father, 
or  by  the  Lord  through  their  father, 
the  Prophet  Nephi  said  unto  them: 
"The  Lord,  God,  giveth  no  command- 
ment unto  the  children  of  men,  save 
that  He  will  prepare  a  way  for  them 
to  accomplish  the  thing  which  He 
commandebh  them."  That  statement, 
enunciated  by  the  Prophet  Nephi,  is 
as  true  today  as  it  was  then.  The  evi- 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLED. 


9 


dences  oif  the  truth  of  this  work  are 
stamped  upon  the  mind  (by  the  exercise 
of  the  principle  of  faith.  We  may  not 
be  able  to  coimmunicate  by  mere  ver- 
bal statement  or  by  letter  the  Spirit 
and  testimony  of  this  work,  but  it  is  as 
tangible  to  us  as  it  is  to  the  human 
body  when  you  receive  a  shock  of  elec- 
tricity. You  cannot  describe  the  sensa- 
tion so  that  others  can  feel  it  and 
understand  it;  they  must  have  the  cur- 
rent of  electricity  turned  into  their  own 
souls  in  order  to  understand  it.  It  is 
just  as  possible  to  receive  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  oif  this  work  as  it  is 
tangible  to  the  human  body  to  be 
shocked  wiibh  electricity. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
the  labors  of  the  Elders  abroad.  I  re- 
joice when  I  see  them  returning  with  a 
good  report,  having  been  schooled  in 
that  experience  which  oan  be  obtained 
alone  by  tihe  exercise  of  faith  in  God 
by  going  forth,  without  money  and 
without  price,  to  declare  the  Gospel 
unto  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Educa- 
tion is  not  alone  to  be  olbtained  from 
books  and  in  universities,  col- 
leges and  in  seminaries  of  learning. 
There  is  an  education  that  comes 
through  the  revelations  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  to  man  that  is  higher  than 
every  other  class  of  education,  and 
compared  with  which  all  other  systems 
of  education  sink  into  insignificance. 
What  do  we  know  about  the  earth  even 
upon  which  we  stand?  What  do  we 
know  albonxt  the  planets  that  roll  in 
space?  Very  little;  (but  when  the  time 
comes,  we  will  receive  a  know- 
ledge of  these  things  by  revelation  from 
God— when  these  sciences  will  be  writ- 
ten upon  by  the  Spirit  of  revelation 
resting  upon  men  of  God— men  who 
exalt  the  Lord  above  all  else.  These 
things  will  be  revealed  from  heaven, 
and  we  will  understand  them  in  their 
true  light,  and  we  will  understand 
them  perfectly. 

I  exhort  you  to  pray  to  God  for  His 
spirit;  strive  to  keep  it  with  you;  the 
only  way  to  do  that  is  to  do  your  sim- 
ple duty.  There  is  nothing  so  import- 
ant as  the  simple  duty  of  the  hour — 
that  is  the  duty  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints..  It  is  their  duty  to  nave  family 
prayer  in  the  evening,  and  to  call  God 
into  their  midst. They  should  teach  their 


posterity  to  pray;  teach  them  to  ask  a 
blessing  on  their  food.  It  is  the  duty  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint  to  pay  his  tith- 
ing and  to  pay  it  fully,  not  to  make  a 
feeble  attempt  at  it  by  paying  one- 
half,  or  one-fifth,  or  four  fiftns,  but  by 
paying  his  full  one- tenth  of  his  inter- 
est annually.  If  it  is  not  one-tenth,  it 
is  not  thoroughly  and  completely  tith- 
ing. When  you  baptize  a  man  in  water, 
if  you  do  it  with  his  right  hand  not 
immersed,  the  Elder  on  the  bank  in 
charge,  requests  the  one  administer- 
ing to  do  it  over  again,  and  immerse 
the  whole  body  in  the  water,  that  it 
may  be  truly  a  baptism  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  in  similitude  of  the  resur- 
rection of  the  Son  of  God.  As  Latter- 
day  Saints,  we  ought  to  be  just  as 
thorough  in  the  performance  of  our 
duties,  our  simple  duties  in  the  Gospel, 
our  prayers,  our  thanks,  our  offerings, 
our  attention  to  the  Priesthood  of  God 
in  complying  with  the  calls  to  carry 
the  Gospel  abroad,  or  to  labor  at  home, 
as  a  merchant  is  in  looking  after  the 
interests  of  his  establishment.  If  we 
were  so,  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  would 
be  more  abundantly  poured  out  upon 
this  people.  There  would  be  more  liv- 
ing witnesses  by  their  experiences  of 
the  power  of  God  among  the  people 
than  there  are.  I  want  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony that  no  man  or  woman  ever  gets 
tired  of  paying  tithing  so  long  as  they 
observe  these  simple  duties.  It  is  one 
of  the  grandest  testimonies  to  the 
truth  of  this  work,  that  no  man  who 
conscientiously  lives  it,  who  reflects 
and  studies  upon  it  according  to  the 
best  opportunities,  and  time  and  abil- 
ity that  he  has,  ever  tires  of  what  the 
world  call  "Mormonism;"  but  when 
you  find  a  man  that  has  fallen  by  the 
wayside,  you  can  trace  in  his  course 
the  neglect  of  some  duty  or  the  viola- 
tion of  some  covenant  which  he  has 
made  with  his  God. 

May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren 
sisters,  and  enable  us  to  live  nearer  t" 
him  and  keep  His  commandments  more 
strictly  in  all  respects,  that  we  may 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Priesthood  and 
the  spirit  and  power  which  belongs  to 
this  work;  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  sang, 
We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John 
Smith. 


2  p.  m. 

The  hymn  which  begins  as  follows 
was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion; 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam, 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 

will  come. 
Prayer  by  Elder  George  C.  Parkin- 
son. 

Singing: 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 

By  Prophets  long  foretold, 

When,  with  harmonious  lay, 

The  sheep  of  Israel's  fold 

On  Zion's  hill  His  praise  proclaim, 

And  shout  hosanna  to  His  name. 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Missionary  work  in  the  Orient— Opposition  encoun- 
tered—Changes  in  Palestine — An  American 
Colony, 

I  hope  that  I  may  be  in  possession  of 
the  same  spirit  that  inspired  our 
brethren  who  addressed  us  this  morning 
I  feel  happy  to  be  in  your  midst,  to 
see  so  many  faces,  happy  faces,  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  as  I  see  here  before 
me  today. 

When  you  last  met  in  general  Con- 
ference, 1  did  not  have  the  pleasure  to 
be  with  you,  as  I  was  then  laboring 
among  the  Saints  in  the  Orient.  I  had  a 
very  interesting  mission  'to  that  part  of 
the  earth.  As  you  know,  we  have  a 
number  of  Saints  in  the  Turkish  em- 
pire. During  the  massacres  which  oc- 
curred in  Armenia  a  few  years  ago,  our 
brethren  and  sisters  there  w^re  left 
without  any  Elders  from  Zion  to  pre- 
side over  them.  The  Presidency  of  the 
Church  sent  Brother  Hintze  and  myself 
over  there  last  December  to  organize 
the  Church  more  fully.  We  found  that 
the  Saints  there,  though  left  without 
Elders  from  Zion  to  preside  over  them, 
had  not  lost  the  spirit  of  the  work.  It 
is  quite  a  testimony  to  me  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  works  the  same,  makes 
the  same  manifestations  wherever  it  is 
enjoyed.   The    Saints    there  enjoy  the 


spirit    of    the    Gospel,  rejoice  in  that 
which    they    have    received,    and  the 
Spirit   had   led   them  to  a  right  under- 
standing. I  was  pleased  to  see  them  so 
well  grounded  in  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  especially  when  I  thought  of 
their  not  having  access  to  any  of  our 
Church  works.  Only  a  few  of  the  Saints 
were  able  to  read  English,  and  we  have 
not  yet  any  of  our  Church  works  trans- 
lated into  Turkish.  A  few  tracts  have 
been  published,  but  the  works  of  the 
Church    have   not  yet  been  translated 
into   that  language   and  consequently 
our    brethren    and  sisters  there  have 
not    been    able    to  read  our  accepted 
works    except    the    Bible,  nor  any  of 
our  published  sermons;   and    still  we 
found  them  in  full  accord  with  the  be- 
lief and  faith  of  the  Church,  showing 
that  the  Spirit  of  God  leads  into  all 
truth.  They  were  very  happy  to  have 
us  come  and  visit  them.  We  found  quite 
a  number  ready  to  receive  the  Gospel, 
and  had  the  joy  of  leading  quite  a  num- 
ber into  the  waters  of  baptism.  Some 
had  been  baptized,  but  for  the  want  of 
an    Elder  had  not  been  confirmed  mem- 
bers.   They   were   glad  to  receive  'this 
blessing.  We  organized  a  branch  of  the 
Church      at      Aintab.       I     do  not 
think  that  such  a  condition  will  again 
arise  there,  as  that  of  the  Saints  of  the 
largest  branch  being  left    under  the 
presidency  of  a  Priest  only.  We  found 
brethren    there    worthy    of  presiding, 
worthy  of  the  Priesthood,  and  ordained 
them. 

We  also  found  that  our  adversary 
was  not  pleased  with  our  work,  nor 
with  the  work  of  the  Saints.  Persecu- 
tion was  raised  against  the  Saints  there, 
the  mob  disturbed  some  of  our  meet- 
ings, but  the  Lord  was  with  us;  none 
was  hurt,  and  it  caused  more  Of  a  spirit 
of  inquiry  amongst  the  people.  The 
government  and  the  officers  of  the  gov- 
ernment were  friendly  to  us  and  prom- 
ised us  protection.  I  found  that  it  was 
mostly  members  belonging  to  different 
Christian  denominations  which  raised 
this  persecution  against  our  people.  The 
Turks  themselves  did  not  act  in  any' 
way  unfriendly  towards  us.  They  won- 
dered what  all  this  turmoil  was  about, 
and  came  to  us  and  wanted  to  know 
What  we  really  believed.  While  the 
Turkish  government  is  not  one  that  an 


ELDER  A  NTH  ON  H.  LUND. 


11 


American  would  like  to  live  under,  still 
it  gives  greater  religious  liberty  to  our 
Saints  than  they  would  be  permitted  to 
enjoy  in  countries  like  Greece,  Italy,  or 
Spain.  The  Mohammedans  do  not  in- 
terfere with  our  brethren  in  the  exer- 
cise of  their  religion,  or  forbid  them  to 
believe  as  they  desire,  but  give  freedom 
to  worship  God  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  their  conscience.  I  may  qualify 
this  by  saying  that  the  Mohammedans 
themselves  do  not  enjoy  this  freedom 
to  the  same  extent  as  the  Christians.  If 
a  Mohammedan  should  leave  his  re- 
ligion and  join  any  other  religion  in  that 
land,  he  would  be  ostracised  from  the 
society  of  his  relatives  and  friends,  and 
would  be  in  danger  even  of  his  life.  But 
as  to  the  Christians,  the  Mohammedans 
are  willing  that  they  do  as  they  please 
in  regard  to  their  religion,  and  I  be- 
lieve the  more  contention  they  see 
amongst  the  Christians  the  more  they 
like  it. 

When  persecution  was  raised  against 
us,  the  Saints  were  desirous  of  our  ap- 
pealing to  the  government  for  help, 
but  on  second  thought  we  felt  that  this 
would  not  be  wise.  We  did  not  like  to 
raise  strife  between  the  Mohammedans 
and  the  Christians.  It  is  not  a  long 
time  since  a  great  many  Christians  lost 
their  lives  in  Armenia,  and  we  were 
afraid  that  we  might  be  the 
cause  of  starting  this  race 
hatred  between  the  two  parties, 
and  we  thought  it  would  be  better  to 
suffer  a  little  wrong  than  to  be  the 
cause  of  wrong  being  done.  I  told  the 
Saints  that  I  did  not  think  the  perse- 
cution would  amount  to  much,  and  I 
knew  that  the  Lord  was  able  to  protect 
His  Saints. 

Wherever  the  Gospel  has  been  intro- 
duced it  has  always  met  with  opposi- 
tion. The  Turkish  mayor  of  Aintab 
said  to  me,  when  I  asked  him  to  look 
after  our  people,  that  they  should  not 
suffer  any  wrong  at  the  hands  of  their 
enemies,  "Wherever  a  message  of 
truth  is  sent,  those  bearing  it  will  suf- 
fer persecution."  I  knew  the  sentiment 
was  true,  but  it  sounded  curious  to 
hear  it  from  his  lips.  He  promised 
to  protect  the  'Saints,  and  I  learn  from 
them  that  he  has  fined  some  of  the 
mobocrats. 


I  believe  there  is  a  great  future  for 
our  people  in  that  land;  and  that  there 
are  many  of  the  honest  in  heart,  and  I 
hope  our  brethren  will  find  them.  They 
love  to  hear  the  Gospel.  They  love 
the  truth,  and  when  they  receive  it 
they  enjoy  the  Spirit,  and  the  signs  fol- 
low them  that  believe,  even  in  that  far 
off  land. 

In  company  with- Elders  Hintze, May- 
cock,  Larson  and  Nishan,  the  latter  a 
native  Elder,  I  visited  the  Holy  Land, 
and  traveled  over  the  places  so  famil- 
iar and  so  interesting  to  us  from  read- 
ing the  Scriptures.  We  examined  the 
country  and  the  conditions  existing 
there  carefully  with  a  view  of  finding 
a  place  of  gathering  for  the  Saints. 

You  remember  that  in  the  forties 
Apostle  Orson  Hyde  was  sent  to  that 
land,  and  that  he  dedicated  it  unto 
the  Lord,  and  for  the  gathering  of  the 
Jews.  That  land  had  been  cursed  on 
account  of  the  iniquity  of  its  people, 
and  for  hundreds  of  years  it  has  been 
a  testimony  to  the  world  that  the  Lord 
honors  the  words  of  his  •servants,  the 
words  spoken  by  the  inspiration  of  His 
Spirit.  Moses,  thousands  of  years  ago, 
was  permitted  to  see  the  future  and 
prophesied  concerning  it,  warning  the 
people  of  Israel  that  if  they  did  not 
obey  the  commandments  of  God  they 
should  be  scattered  amongst  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  You  who  have  read 
history  know  how  literally  this  proph- 
ecy has  been  fulfilled,  and  that  the  land 
given  to  Abraham  and  his  seed  has 
been  occupied  by  strangers,  and  that 
the  blessings  of  God  which  once  made 
that  land  a  delightful  place  in  which 
to  dwell,  were  withdrawn  and  it  was 
turned  into  a  barren  and  forbidding 
land.  Brother  Hyde  went  there  and 
blessed  it.  The  mission  given  to  the 
servants  of  God  was  to  pro- 
claim the  Gospel  to  the  Gentiles  first 
and  then  to  the  Jews.  This  was  declared 
very  early  by  the  Lord  as  the  mission 
given  to  His  servants.  His  chosen  peo- 
ple were  not  forgotten.  They,  also, 
should  receive  the  Gospel  message;  but 
this  time  the  first  should  be  the  last. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  was  inspired  to 
send  Brother  Hyde  to  that  land,  and 
look  at  the  change!  A  spirit  has  come 
over  the  Jews,  over  the  House  of  Israel, 
to  gather  to  that  land.    This  was  not 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


felt  by  them  before  'but  since  that  time. 

This  spirit  has  come  upon  them  in 
whatever  part  of  the  earth  they  dwell, 
We  found  in  traveling-  in  that  land 
whole  settlements  of  Jews  who  have 
gathered  there  of  late  years.  In  talk- 
ing with  them  (Brother  Hintze  being 
a'ble  to  talk  the  language)  we  learned 
that  they  were  not  gathering  in  faith; 
it  was  not  because  they  believed  that 
the  Lord  had  opened  the  way  before 
them,  but  they  had  a  desire  to  go  there. 
A  learned  Jewish  doctor  told  us  that 
his  people  wanted  to  become  again  a 
nation.  They  longed  to  be  once  more  a 
people  upon  the  earth,  and  'to  own  the 
land  given  to  their  fathers. 

In  Jerusalem  we  found  quite  an  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  the  Jews;  dur- 
ing the  last  three  years,  fifteen  thou- 
sand had  settled  there.  The  sultan  is  not 
pleased  with  this  and  has  prohibited 
the  Jews  from  emigrating  into  Pales- 
tine, but  still  the  movement  is  going  on, 
the  Zion  movement  among  the  people  of 
Israel,  and  they  are  looking  forward  to 
inhabiting  that  land.  It  is  one  of  the 
signs  of  the  times.  Before  long  I  believe 
the  Lord  will  touch  the  hearts  of  that 
people  and  they  will  believe  in  Jesus 
as  their  Messiah.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
has  the  prophecy  that  when  they  do  be- 
lieve in  Him  that  land  shall  be  given 
them  again  as  their  inheritance.  I  do  not 
believe  that  time  is  far  distant.  I  believe 
that  the  time  is  hastening  when  the 
Lord  will  accomplish  what  he  has 
spoken  by  His  servants  the  Prophets. 

While  in  Jerusalem  we  met  a  colony 
of  Americans.  These  people  have  been 
impressed  that  they  live  in  the  last  days 
and  that  the  coming  of  'Christ  is  near, 
and  so  they  have  sold  out  their  posses- 
sions, taken  their  means  with  them  to 
Jerusalem  that  they  might  live  there 
when  Christ  comes,  •believing  that  He 
will  come  to  Mount  Olivet. 

We  spent  a  very  pleasant  evening 
with  them.  They  lived  in  the  united 
order,  having  everything  in  common, 
and  they  use  their  time  in  doing  good, 
in  going  to  the  sick  and  helping  the 
poor.  So  far  they  are  doing  a  good 
work.  Mrs.  Spofford,  the  president 
and  leader  of  the  society,  told  us  that 
in  studying  the  Scriptures  they  have 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  Christ 
will  soon  appear,  and  she  said:  "We 


were  struck  very  much  by  the  proph- 
ecy uttered  by  Zachariah  in  the  14th 
chapter,  10th  verse,  and  also  by  the 
prophecy  of  Jeremiah,  concerning  Je- 
rusalem, in  the  31st  chapter,  in  which 
it  is  foretold  how  the  city  of  Jerusalem 
shall  be  built  on  certain  lines.  When 
reading  the  chapters  closely  we  find 
that  the  time  alluded  to  is  the  latter 
days,  and  it  is  said  there  that  the  city 
of  Jerusalem  should  be  built  from  the 
tower  of  Hananeel  to  the  king's  wine 
presses  and  from  there  to  the  valley 
of  the  dead  bodies  and  of  the  ashes." 
She  pointed  out  to  us  this  fact,  that 
the  city  is  being  built  now  exactly 
on  these  lines.  They  did  not  know  at 
first  where  the  tower  of  Hananeel  was. 
Nobody  seemed  to  know,  and  if  you 
look  into  books  giving  descriptions  of 
Jerusalem,  that  place  is  not  designated, 
but  a  few  years  ago  when  they  were 
digging  the  foundations  of  the  Grand 
hotel  in  Jerusalem  they  discovered  the 
foundations  of  a  tower  and  among  in- 
scriptions found  was  the  name  of  Ha- 
naneel. This  made  them  believe  that 
this  must  have  been  the  tower  of  Ha- 
naneel. Taking  that  for  a  starting 
point,  and  to  the  king's  wine  presses 
and  down  to  the  valley  of  ashes,  Je- 
rusalem is  being  built  as  thus  described 
These  people  took  this  to  be  one  of  the 
signs  of  the  times.  I  take  it  to  be  one 
of  the  signs  of  the  times,  that  God  is 
working  upon  His  people,  His  chosen 
people,  and  that  they  are  gathering  to 
that  land. 

As  for  our  people  gathering  there,  we 
feel  that  our  brethren  should  be  well 
grounded  in  the  faith  before  we  move 
them,  and  still  being  in  their  infancy 
it  would  be  better  to  strengthen,  the 
branches  and  have  more  come  into  the 
Church,  and  then  gradually  gather 
them  down  to  a  place  selected  in  the 
Holy  Land,  and  this  is  a  work  that  will 
be  accomplished.  There  will  be  a 
Zion  in  the  East  as  well  as  in  the 
West,  "for  the  law  shall  go  forth  out  of 
Zion  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from. 
Jerusalem." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  delight  in 
dwelling  upon  these  things.  I  see  the 
Lord  is  working  with  the  nations.  He 
is  gradually  accomplishing  His  pur- 
poses, and  His  work  will  grow  in  the 
earth,  and  all  the  opposition  in  the 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 


13 


world  will  not  stop  it.  He  has  re- 
vealed His  will  to  men.  He  has  estab- 
lished His  kingdom  upon  the  earth, and 
it  will  grow  until  it  becomes,  as  Da- 
niel saw,  a  kingdom  that  will  fill  the 
whole  earth. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful 
and  true  and  to  have  a  share  in  His 
kingdom  forever,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER    MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

An  occasion  for  self-scrutiny— The  labor  committed 
to  the  Saints  by  the  Lord— The  Church  the  most 
perfect  of  all  organizations— Local  officers  should 
be  active  and  discreet— No  unworthy  person 
should  be  recommended  to  enter  the  holy  Tem- 
ples—The great  work  for  the  dead. 

In  arising  before  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  desire  to  make  you  hear 
the  few  words  I  may  speak  to  you  this 

afternoon. 

In  looking  over  this  congregation,  I 
realize  that  we  all  have  an  object  in 
view  in  coming  to  the  Conference  from 
distant  parts,  and  as  was  observed  this 
morning,  perhaps  a  large  majority  of 
the  congregation  here  today  is  from 
remote  parts  of  the  country.  We  are 
here  to  be  instructed.  We  are  here 
to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  We  are  here  to  have  a  re- 
freshing from  the  Lord  in  our  assem- 
blings together  during  the  Conference. 
It  is1  a  good  time  to  reflect,  it  is  a  good 
time  to  look  over  our  history,  that  is 
our  private  history  and  our  private  life 
and  the  acts  thereof.  It  is  a  good  time 
to  sit  in  judgment  upon  ourselves  and 
judge  ourselves  as  to  our  standing  and 
fellowship  with  the  Lord.  The  Lord 
has  been  very  merciful  to  us,  very 
merciful  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
are  constrained  to  acknowledge  the 
hand  of  the  Lord  in/ His  kind  dealings 
with  us  in  this  mountain  country. 

Those  who  have  had  a  few  years 
experience  can  see  visibly  that  the  ele- 
ments have  been  tempered.  The  earth 
has  been  blessed  and  sanctified  for  the 
good  of  the  people,  so  much  so  that 
it  produces  in  abundance  to  the  husi- 
bandm'an;  it  rewards  him  for  his  toil; 
while  but  a  short  time  ago  it  looked 
as  though  the  country  was  a  barren 
waste.  But  we  find  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  the  earth;  has  blessed  the  peo- 
ple; has  multiplied  them  in  the  good 


things  of  the  earth,  so  much  so  that 
all,  or  seemingly  all,  have  all  the  boun- 
ties of  the  earth. 

The  Lord  has  also  given  unto  us  the 
charge  of  His  work  in  the  earth;  giv- 
en unto  us  the  charge  of  organizing 
His  people,  to  teach  them  the  Gospel, 
and  to  send  the  Gospel  to  the  distant 
parts  of  the  earth,  as  we  have  been 
hearing  this  afternoon.  This  charge 
and  labor  has  been  committed  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  are  obligat- 
ed to  the-  Lord  to  preach  the  Gospel 
in  all  the  world,  to  every  nation  and 
to  every  people.  This  is  the  work 
that  we  have  in  hand;  this  is  the 
labor  that  is  marked  out  for  us; 
and  we  come  together  from  time 
to  time  at  the  conferences  of  the 
Church,  and  we  usually  hear  from  the 
brethren  who  are  posted  with  regard  to 
the  spread  of  the  work  in  other  lands 
and  in  our  own  land,  and  we  are  led 
to  exclaim:  "Praise  the  Lord  for  His 
goodness  and  for  His  mercy  and  His 
long-suffering  to  us  as  His  people." 

We  have,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  a  beautiful  organization,  corm 
plete  in  all  its  details,  such  as  no  other 
people  has;  such  as  was  not  in  the  wis- 
dom of  man  to  give  to  the  people.  I 
often  think  about  it,  think  about  how 
we  are  situated,  the  circumstances  un- 
der which  we  are  placed.  We  are  not 
left  to  depend  upon  ourselves,  upon  our 
judgment  in  matters  of  Interest  that 
pertain  to  ourselves.  We  have  been  ad- 
vised to  seek  counsel  of  each  other,  to 
seek  'the  counsels  of  the  Lord.  In  the 
midst  of  counsel,  it  is  .said,  there  is 
safety.  I  have  thought  sometimes 
that  we  did  not  appreciate  this  beau- 
tiful system  that  the  Lord  has  revealed 
and  made  known  to  man  under  which 
we  may  live  and  have  full  fellowship 
with  each  other.  I  have  thought,  my 
'brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  we  were 
a  little  more  careful,  and  should  give 
a  liftle  more  attention  to  the  organiza- 
tion that  we  have,  Lt  would  save  us  a 
great  deal  of  trouble  and  also  save  our 
brelthren  trouble. 

I  have  said  that  I  thought  it  was  a 
good  thing,  and  I  say  it  from  experi- 
ence, for  the  authorities  of  a  ward,  the 
organizations  of  the  Priesthood  in  a 
ward,  to  have  their  meetings  frequent- 
ly. The  Bishop  in  a  ward  should  call  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


brethren  together,  especially  his  coun- 
selors, and  talk  over  the  interests  of  the 
people  there.  Counsel  together,  call  in 
others  that  have  interest  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  advise  together  about  all 
matters  relating  to  the  interests  and 
welfare  of  the  people  that  live  there. 
Old  wards  need  this,  and  new  wards 
also  need  ft — to  know  the  condition  of 
all  of  the  people  and  to  specially  know 
the  condition  Of  the  young  people,  in 
this    ward    organization;  and  if  it  be 
found    that    there    are  matters  of  in- 
terest and  problems  that  they  cannot 
solve,     then     they     may     apply  to 
the     president     of     the     Stake,  and 
take  him  into  their  confidence  and  ap- 
ply to  him  for  the  counsels  of  the  Lord; 
and  if  the  problem  is  such  that  he 
can  not  solve  it,  then'  there  is  another 
source  that  he  may  apply  to  and  get 
the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  on  all 
matters  relating  to  the  interests,  relat- 
ing to  the  welfare,  relating  to  the  es- 
tablishing of  the  people  in  the  faith  of 
the    Gospel.     We'  want    to  encourage 
faith,  as  was  said  this  morning;  we 
want  to  instill  that  faith  into  our  chil- 
dren and  into  the    young  people.  I 
believe  faith  is  increasing  in  the  land, 
however,  but  we  find  it  will  be  through 
our  efforts,  through    our    labors  that 
faith  will  be  increased  in  the  minds  of 
the  people. 

I  have  had,  in  connection  with  others, 
some  experience  with  people,  young 
people  especially,  and  middle-aged  peo- 
ple, too,  sometimes,  who  procure  en- 
dorsements or  recommends  from  the 
Bishop  of  their  ward  where  they  live, 
and  I  have  been  led  to  question  wheth- 
er the  Bishop  knew  much  about  the 
person  that  he  recommended,  if  he  was 
fully  familiar  with  his  life.  Now  this 
should  not  be.  We  ought  to  be  famil- 
iar with  the  affairs  that  are  under  our 
care  and  under  our  jurisdiction,  and 
this  can  be  brought  about  by  holding 
as  I  said  before,  these  councils.  Why, 
we  have  an  ex-ample  of  this  in  the 
Church,  a  striking  example.  The  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  hold  their  council 
and  call  in  the  brethren  with  them  and 
counsel  upon  given  matters.  They 
hold  it  every  week,  and  counsel  and 
talk  over  matters  pertaining  to  the 
Church,  the  whole  Church.  Of  course 
they  are  not  supposed  to  come  down 


to  the  details  of  a  Stake  or  to  the  de- 
tails of  a  ward;  they  are  looking  after 
the  general  interests  and  welfare  of 
the  whole  Church  here  and  abroad  in 
all  the  world.  Such  counsels  in  a 
ward  capacity  and  in  a  Stake  capacity 
would  have  good  results;  they  certainly 
would  have  no  bad  results.  If  the 
Bishop  of  a  ward  were  to  call  the 
Priesthood  together  they  could  talk 
over  matters  of  interest  to  the  ward, 
of  labors  that  there  are  to  accomplish, 
and  take  into  consideration  the  propri- 
ety of  making  their  influence  felt  in  all 
the  associations  of  the  organization— in 
every  association  in  the  ward.  These 
organizations  and  associations  in  the 
ward  make  up  the  grand  total  of  the 
Church;  they  make  up  the  grand  to- 
tal in  the  greater  organization;  and 
they  have  to  be  watched  over  and 
cared  for  and  looked  after  with  a  dili- 
gent eye. 

Now  we  are  singularly  situated; 
there  are  a  great  many  things  that 
need  to  be  watched  over,  and  that  need 
to  be  looked  after  in  order  that  we 
may  retain  the  faith,  retain  our  fel- 
lowship, retain  our  favor  with  the  1 
Lord.  Somebody  has  to  do  it.  The  1 
Lord  has  made  these  appointments.has 
given  us  these  organizations,  and  when 
the  Elders  go  out  into  the  different 
Stakes  of  Zion,  new  wards  are  to  be 
organized,  new  Stakes  are  to  be  organ- 
ized, the  matter  is  canvassed  and  looked 
over  carefully,  and  good  men  are 
sought  for,  diligent  men  are  sought  for, 
in  order  that  they  may  have  a  proper 
organization,  in  order  that  the  people 
may  have  proper  care  and  proper  at- 
tention when  the  ward  or  the  Stake  is 
thus  organized. 

We  might  bring  this  down  in  detail 
even  in  a  ward.  When  we  have  teach- 
ers, to  select,  when  we  have  Priests  to 
select,  when  we  have  brethren  to  select 
for  various  positions  and  labors,  we 
want  to  canvas  the  matter,  look  it 
over,  and  counsel  together  about  these 
things  that  the  greatest  good  may  be 
effected  by  our  labors,  and  that  the 
greatest  good  may  be  accomplished 
through  our  labors  in  our  various  call- 
ings in  the  ministry  whereunto  we 
are  appointed. 

Tt  is  desirable  that  no  unworthy  peo- 
ple go  into  the  sacred  places — go  into 


ELDER  MARRINER   W.  MERRILL. 


15 


the  houses^  of  the  Lord.  They  would 
not  want  to  go  there  themselves  if 
they  understood  matters  properly.  It 
is  not  desirable  to  have  unworthy  peo- 
ple go.  And  who  is  to  know?  It  is 
not  fair  to  suppose  that  the  President 
of  the  Stake  in  endorsing  these  people 
personally  knows  them  all. 

President  Taylor  once  said,  in  speak- 
ing on  this  same  subject,  and  giving 
counsel  and  advice,  that  if  they  were 
unacquainted  with  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church  and  had  not  had  experience, 
they  should  at  least  have  experience 
in  a  ward  somewhere,  before  they 
sought  to  go'  to  the  Temple. 
He  said  they  ought  to  be  at 
least  a  year  in  some  ward  under 
some  bishopric,  before  they  sought  to 
go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord.  We  find 
it  very  desirable  to  have  good  people 
present  themselves  at  the  doors  of 
the  house  of  the  Lord,  who  has  en- 
trusted us  with  this  work,  pertaining 
to  our  kindred  that  are  passed  away; 
has  entrusted  us  with  the  work  to  have 
our  families  and  our  progenitors 
labored  for  and  organized  under  the 
holy  Priesthood;  the  children  sealed  to 
the  parents  from  one  generation  to  an- 
other, and  to  see  that  the  work  for  the 
dead,  as  well  as  for  the  living,  goes 
forward,  as  has  been  indicated  by  the 
erecting  of  temples  to  the  name  of  the 
Most  High. 

I  remember  in  mv  early  experience 
in  the  Church  that  I  never  contemplat- 
ed that  there  would  be  more  than  one 
temple.  T  thought  that  would  be  all 
that  would  be  needed  for  the  work  of 
the  dead;  but  as  it  has  rolled  On,  as 
we  gain  experience,  we  find  that  the 
work  of  the  Lord  is  expanding,  and  we 
are  also  expanding  in  our  views  with 
regard  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  We 
are  more  enlightened  now  than  we  were 
before  the  temples  were  built.  We 
have  greater  desires  in  many  respects 
to  hunt  up  and  look  after  our  kindred, 
to  look  after  the  genealogies  of  our 
forefathers  who  have  died  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  Now  this  is 
one  of  the  things  in  connection  with 
a  great  many  others  that  we  have  to 
<3o.  We  must  not  lose  sight  of  it  in 
our  day  nor  in  our  lifetime.     We  must 


not  have  it  said  when  we  go  to  '  the 
other  side  of  the  veil,  when  we  meet 
our  kindred  there  and  they  perhaps  ask 
us  what  we  have  done  for  them — we  do 
not  want  to  have  to  say  we  have  done 
nothing  for  them.  It  would  be  much 
more  desirable  to  say  we  have  done 
all  we  could.  We  have  hunted  up  and 
down  the  earth;  we  have  traveled 
abroad  to  find  records  and  genealogies 
of  our  kindred;  we  have  done  all  that 
we  could.  How  many  of  us  can  say 
this  today,  up  to  date?  We  have  had 
four  temples  going  now  for  some  time 
and  the  people  have  been  invited  to  at- 
tend to  these  matters,  and  how  many 
could  say  up  to  date  that  they  have 
done  all  they  could  for  their  kindred  that 
have  passed  away?  I  presume  that 
there  are  many  that  can  say  it  and 
there  are  a  great  many  that  can't  say 
it.  It  is  advisable,  therefore,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  not  lose  sight  of 
this  important  labor,  as  well  as  educat- 
ing and  training  our  sons  and  our 
young  people  to  become  ministers  of 
the  Gospel  to  be  faithful  representa- 
tives, honorable  representatives  of  our 
people  and  of  our  Church.  I  repeat  that 
in  the  midst  of  these  labors  we  should 
not  lose  sight  of  ithe  importance  of  at- 
tending to  these  matters  in  the  tem- 
ples of  the  Lord,  because  there  is  a 
purpose  and  a  design  in  these  things, 
and  those  that  enter  into  the  spirit  of  it 
can  comprehend  it  and  understand  it. 
When  they  come  and  make  a  com- 
mencement they  want  to  stay  longer, 
they  want  to  stay  a  year,  some  of  them, 
and  continue  their  labors  because  they 
enter  into  the  spirit  of  it.  They  see  the 
importance  of  it  more  and  more  as  they 
■progress  in  the  work. 

'There  are  a  great  many  things  for 
our  consideration  as  live,  active  Lat- 
ter-day Saints;  a  grea't  many  duties 
and  responsibilities  that  are  upon  us, 
but  there  is  nolthing  required  at  our 
hands  but  that  we  may  accomplish 
through  our  diligence  and  our  faithful- 
ness in  observing  and  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord. 

I  would  urge  upon  you,  my  brethren, 
the  Bishops  and  presidents  of  fo takes, 
who  may  be  here,  to  try  the  experiment 
if  you  have  not  tried  it,  and  have  your 
counsel  meetings  occasionally,  once  a 
week  or  oftener;  counsel  together  with 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


your  brethren,  and  whatever  is  done 
let  it  be  done  with  common  consent 
from  the  head  of  the  ward,  from  the 
head  of  the  .Stake,  from  the  head  of  the 
Church,  let  it  all  be  done  by  com- 
mon consent:  then  everything-  will 
be  harmonious.  We  want  to  work 
in  harmony,  we  want  no  friction, 
we  do  not  want  discord,  we 
do  not  want  contention  among 
the  Saints;  we  want  peace  and  the  good 
spirit  of  ithe  Lord  in  -our  homes  and  in 
our  families.  We  desire  that  above  all 
other  things.  We  Want  that  union,  that 
strength  that  will  make  us  valiant  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  the  way  to 
get  it  is  to  seek  for  it,  look  after  it, 
and  attend  to  this  beautiful  organiza- 
tion that  the  Lord  has  given  us,  and 
work  together,  counsel  together  in 
all  matters  pertaining  to  us  spiritually, 
and  pertaining  to  us  temporarily.  We 
Tsed  to  do  this,  I  think,  more  than  we 
do  now.  Those  of  us  who  went  up  into 
Cache  valley  a  good  many  years  ago 
to  open  up  that  country  and  develop  it. 
had  to  do  this,  because  we  were  sur- 
rounded by  the  enemy,  the  red  men, 
who  were  on  our  path.  They  killed 
some  of  our  brethren  and  we  were 
driven  together.  We  had  to  talk  and 
counsel  together,  and  work  unitedly. 
If  we  went  to  the  canyon  for  anything 
we  had  to  go  in  force.  One  man  did 
not  start  off  alone,  it  was  not  safe,  but 
we  went  in  force,  we  worked  unitedly 
in  that  district  of  country.  And  thus  it 
was  under  the  wise  counsel  of  President 
Young,  who  would  come  to  us  and  talk 
to.  us  like  a  father,  told  us  what  to  do 
to  save  ourselves.  Naturally  we  wanted 
to  scatter  all  over  the  country,  but  there 
would  not  have  been  a  town  anywhere. 
He  counseled  with  us  and  advised  us 
what  to  do,  and  we  can  see  and  have 
seen  the  good  in  so  doing.  It  is  a  good 
thing  to  do  now,  to  counsel  together  and 
be  agreed  upon  matters  pertaining  to 
our  interests,  and  in  doing  this  we  learn 
to  love  one  another.  We  learn  to  respect 
each  other.  We  won't  want  to  pass 
over  the  Bishop  of  our  -ward  and  go 
somewhere  else;  we  won't  want  to  ig- 
nore the  President  of  the  Stake  and  go 
to  someone  else;  nor  we  won't  want  to 
pass  over  the  Apostles  when  they  come 
around,  but  we  will  have  the  spirit  of 


humility,  that  we  may  take  counsel  to- 
gether for  our  good.  I  am  sure  it  will 
result  in  good  to  the  wards  and  to  the 
Stakes  without  doubt.  We  may 
know,  through  this  means,  everybody 
in  our  ward.  The  Bishop  may  become 
acquainted  with  every  young  man.  If  the 
president  of  the  Elders'  quorum, 
doesn't  know  him  personally,  why 
his  brother  knows  him,  his  counselors 
know  him,  the  president  of  the  Elders' 
quorum  knows,  him,  some  of  the  Priest- 
hood there  know  him,  some  of  the  High 
Council  may  be  there  that  may  know 
him;  what  a  nice  thing-  it  would  be  for 
the  Bishop  to  be  acquainted  with  all 
these  affairs.  Talk  these  matters  over 
together,  .  and  not  hurt  anybody, 
but  work  for  the  salvation  and 
unification  of  the  people  in  the  district 
where  we  live.  We  may  find,  in  counsel- 
ing together,  that  there  are  some  fami- 
lies that  are  careless,  that  are  indiffer- 
ent. We  may  find  also  that  the  teachers 
are  a  little  indifferent,  and  that  they 
do  not  visit  everybody,  and  they  only 
make  a  visit  occasionally.  You  may 
find  in  couseling  together  many  things 
you  might  correct.  You  may  find  that 
some  family  is  not  living  the  lives  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  not  paying  their 
tithing  unto  the  Lord,  and  not  doing 
their  duty  in  helping  to  support  the 
poor,  and  so  on.  They  can  foe  kindly 
looked  after,  cared  for,  and  watched 
over,  and  talked  over  in  a  gentle  way, 
that  they  may  be  brought  back  into  the 
fold  and  into  full  fellowship  with  the 
Church  of  Christ. 

Perhaps  '  I  am  lengthening  out  too 
long  in  imy  remarks.  But  I  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  work  is 
true;  I  know  it  is  from  the  Lord,  and 
I  bear  record  of  this.  I  have  had  many 
testimonies  from  my  youth  up;  testi- 
mony upon  Itestimony  with  regard  to 
the  truth  of  this  work,  and  I  bear  you 
this  testimony,  that  this  work  is  true, 
that  the  eye  of  the  Lord  is  upon  us,  and 
He  has  organized  His  Church  accord- 
ing to  His  mind  and  will,  and  accord- 
ing to  the  dictations  of  His  spirit,  and 
the  brethren  who  stand  at  our  head  are 
inspired  men  of  God.  We  have  reason 
many  times  to  hear  record  of  this,  be- 
cause we  have  seen  it  made  manifest 
so  plainly  to  us.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL.  17 

ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL.  I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 

An  ambition  that  is  not  wordly— A  great  Mission-  that  there  is  a  very  great  labor  de- 
ary responsibility-Special  reference  to  the  volving  upon  this  people.  As  was 
Seventies.  stated  by  President  George  Q.  Cannon, 

I  trust,  while  I  stand    before    you,   we  cannot  say  that  we  have  the  num- 
that  I  may  be  governed  and  influenced   ber  of  missionaries  laboring  throughout 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord;  for  I  can  as-    the  nations  of  the  earth  that  we  had 
sure  you  that  I  have  only  one  ambition,    six  months    ago.      In    the  Southern 
only  one  desire  burning  in  my  heart,    States  alone  there  have  been  over  one 
and  that  is,  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep    hundred   and   twenty-five     Elders  re- 
His    commandments.       I    understand   leased  since  the  20th  of  June,  and  Oin 
my  labors  to  be  to  preach  the  Gospel    the  20th  of  June  there  were  five  hun- 
comtinually  among  the  children  of  men;    dred  and  eighty  Elders  laboring  in  that 
that  my  calling  and  labors  are  well-    mission;     and  Elder    Rich,  who  pre- 
defined; and  I  do  not  ask  any  Seventy    sides,  stated  that  there  should  be  re- 
in the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  do    leased  from  that  mission  another .  one- 
what  I  am  not  willing  to  perform  my-    hundred  and  twenty-five  Elders.  Take 
self.     I  am  a  candidate  in  the  Church   that  mission    alome,  then,  and  there 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  take  up  the  cross    should  be  sent,  into  that  field  of  labor 
and  follow  the  Savior,  and  preach  the    at  least  two  hundred  and  'fifty  more 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth;  and    Elders  as  soon  as  it  can  possibly  be 
I  am  willing,  if    the  customs  of    the    done.    I  feel  myself  that  it  is  a  time  to 
country  will  permit  it  and  I  am  so  di-    thrust  in  the  sickle;  for  the  Lord  has 
rected  by  the  Spirit  of    the  Lord,    to    softened  the  hearts  of  the  children  Of 
travel  without  purse  or  scrip,  to  addict   men  towards  this  people,  and  Satan, 
myself  to  fast  and  to  pray,    and  to    in  his  anger,  is  trying  to  raise  up  per- 
live  near  unto  the  Lord,  that  he  may   secution  against  our  people,  and  it  is 
soften  the  hearts  of    the  children    ol   already    developing    in    the  Southern 
men  towards  me.     I  have  only  one  am-    States.     I  feel,  my  brethren,  that  we 
bition,  viz.,  to  follow  in  the  footsteps    should  put  ourselves  in  a  condition  to 
of  my  father  and    emulate    his    ex-    undertake  and  carry  out    this  labor, 
ample.     While  I  believe  it  to  be  my    especially  the  Seventies^  whose  labor 
right,  notwithstanding  I  am  a  member   it  is  to  continually  preach  the  Gospel, 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat-   We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
ter-day  Saints,  to  work  for  any  gift   that  the  High  Priests  are  to  preach  as 
that  can  be. given  by  this  great  nation    their  circumstances  will  permit;  but 
or  by  the  people  of  this  State,  yet  I   there  are  no  such  words  found  in  the 
have  no  ambition  in  that  direction.    I   Doctrine  and  Covenants  regarding  the 
realize  that  there  is  danger  in  specu-    Seventies.     I  went  into  a  qporum  of 
lation;  but  I  claim  the  right  to  specu-    Seventies  only  a  few  nights  ago — one  of 
late,  if  I  am  honest  and  straightfor-    the  best  quorums,  too,  that  I  have  met 
ward  in  my  dealings.    I  claim  that  it  with —  and  we  found  eighteen  Seventies 
is  my  right  to  become  rich  and  to  sur-    out  of  thirty-five  that  have  never  filled 
round  myself  with  the  riches  of  the   missions  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
wtorld,  inasmuch  as  I  use  it    for  the    So  we  find  it  all  through  the  Church, 
good  of  the  children  of  men.      But  I   It  is  my  opinion  that  there  are  but  few 
have  no  further  ambition  in  that  di-    quorums  in  the  Church  in  which  you 
rection,  unless  I  am  specially  called  by   cannot  find  twenty  Seventies  that  have 
those  appointed  to  labor  in  the  Church,    never  filled  missions  to  the  nations  of 
have,  however,  an  ambition  to    be    the  earth,  and  I  look  upon  it  as  one  of 
saved  m  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,    the  most  unfortunate  things  that  can 
yesire  to  understand  the  Gospel,  the   befall  a  man-to  be  robbed    of  that 
Plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  if  there   privilege.     While  it  is  true  that  many 
8  any  greater  ambition  that  can    be   of  our  brethren  have  filled  honorable 
given  unto  the  children  of  men,  I  pray    and  wonderful  missions  at  home,  yet 
you  to  point  out  the  pathway.  we  look  to  Seventies  to    fill    up  this 


IS 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE • 


number;  and  I  pray  the  Lord  to  move 
upon  them  mightily  by  His  Spirit,  that 
we  may  be  able  to  supply  our  brethren 
in  the  next  year  with  three  hundred 
Seventies  that  are  willing  to  take  upon 
themselves  this  labor. 

I  realize,  my  brethren,  that  we  should 
be  charitable.  I  do  know  that  our 
brethren  are  in  debt,  that  they  are  in 
trouble  and  in  difficulty.  It  is  only 
two  weeks  ago  since  I  personally  in- 
terviewed eight  bright,  intelligent  men 
who  were  perfectly  able,  physically, 
mentally,  and,  for  aught  I  know,  every 
other  way  except  financially,  to  go  on 
missions,  and  these  eight  brethren  all 
declared  that  they  were  in  debt  and 
unable  to  go.  I  felt  impressed  by  the 
Spirit  to  prophesy  to  them  and  to 
promise  them  that  if  they  would  have 
faith  they  could  pay  their  obligations 
in  the  next  six  months,  if  they  would 
make  a  covenant  with  the  Lord  that 
they  would  take  up  this  labor  and 
preach  the  Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  But  it  leaves  a  very  grave  re- 
sponsibility upon  the  Bishops  and  the 
presidents  of  Stakes;  for  when  you 
send  that  class  of  men,  they  leave  be- 
hind them  probably  large  families  to 
be  taken  care  of.  I  feel  that  that  is 
one  reason  that  so  many  young  men 
have  been  called — men  who  were  not 
Seventies— because  many  of  them  had 
no  families  to  leave  behind.  But  I 
say  to  you, my  brethren  and  sisters,  in- 
asmuch as  this  is  my  calling,  that  it 
devolves  upon  this  people,  notwith- 
standing there  is  a  great  expense  to 
it.  From  a  human  standpoint,  it 
would  seem  as  if  it  Avould  take  from 
our  people  nearly  all  their  means  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  nation. 
Yet,  if  I  understand  the  matter  aright, 
when  the  angel  came,  that  was  the 
message  he  delivered  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

I  do  not  desire  to  occupy  more  Of 
your  time;  but  I  did  desire  to  call  your 
attention  to  that  part  of  our  labor  that 
is  devolving  upon  the  people.  I  pray 
the  Lord  that  He  will  continue  to  bless 
us,  and  bless  the  earth,  that  it  shall 
yield  forth  of  its  strength,  so  that  our 
people  may  free  themselves  from  debt, 
and  take  up  this  labor;  that  it  may  not 


be  necessary  to  hunt  and  search  as  we 
now  are  under  the  necessity  of  doing, 
to  find  men  to  send  forth  to  the  na- 
tions. I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  our 
brethren,  the  Apostles,  for  my  sympa- 
thy is  with  them.  I  desire  to  say  to 
the  people  that  I  hope  the  time  will 
never  come  when  it  will  be  necessary 
for  any  of  our  people,  through  their 
strife  and  their  troubles — their  politi- 
cal troubles— <to  make  any  further 
trouble  for  their  brethren;  for  when  I 
look  back  to  that  aged  servant  of  God 
—President  Wilford  Woodruff— who  has 
passed  away,  and  when  I  think  of  our 
other  brethren  who  follow  him,  how 
true  and  how  faithful,  how  full  of  in- 
tegrity they  are;  they  have  never 
swerved,  but  they  have  been  steadfast 
and  have  fought  valiantly  for  the 
cause  of  Christ,  and  just  as  they  get 
here  and  have  established  themselves 
seemingly  permanently,  and  it  seems 
when  it  ought  to  have  been  a  time  of 
peace  and  rest  for  our  brethren,  some 
of  us  who  became  restless  and  got  the 
spirit  of  the  world  had  to  make  more 
trouble  for  them.  I  pray  the  Lord 
that  He  may  soften  our  hearts,  that  we 
may  love  the  Priesthood,  that  we  may 
honor  them,  that  we  may  serve  the 
Lord  and  keep  His  commandments, aind 
have  the  Spirit  of  God  burning  in  our 
hearts  like  a  living  fire.  This  is  my 
desire,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

This  is  God's  work— Human  weaknesses— Payment 
of  Tithing— Every  day  duties. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  while  I  stand  before  you  this  af- 
ternoon I  shall  have  your  faith  and 
prayers  in  the  testimony  that  I  may 
bear  and  in  the  few  remarks  that  I 
may  make.  It  is  very  unexpected  to 
me  to  have  to  stand  before  you  at  this 
time;  but  I  always  esteem  it  a  priv- 
ilege to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  great  latter  day  work,  and  also  to 
that  which  is  being  accomplished  by 
the  labors  of  our  brethren.  I  under- 
stand and  realize  that  we  are  accom- 
plishing the  work  that  God  has  de- 
signed; that  we  are  fulfilling  His  pur- 
poses; that  this  is  His  work,  and  not 


ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 


19 


ours;  and  that  according  to  His  good 
pleasure,  according  to  His  divine  will, 
all  things  will  be  brought  about,  and 
the  words  of  His  servants  will  be  ful- 
filled, until  this  earth  is  prepared  for 
the  reign  of  His  Son.    I  have  no  doubt 
of  this  on  my  mind.    All  things,  what- 
soever   they    are,  that    the  Lord  has 
willed  in  the  restoration  of  His  Gos- 
pel, in  the  gathering  of  His  people,  in 
the  building  up  of  His  kingdom,  will  be 
brought  about.     And  though   our  ef- 
forts from  day  to  day  may  seem  but 
small  and  insignificant,  yet  in  the  end 
they  will  fulfill  the  purposes  designed 
of  God.   Therefore,  as  a  people  we  have 
every  cause  for  encouragement.  God 
will  not  leave  us  to  ourselves.    He  will 
not  forsake  us.    He  will  not  give  us 
over  into  the  power   of  our  enemies. 
He  will  not  permit  that  His  kingdom 
in   this    dispensation    shall    be  over- 
thrown.   Though  we  are  weak,  though 
we  commit  follies,  yet  in  these  respects 
we  are  not    different    from  those  who 
have  gone  before  us.    We  are  told,  in 
the  various  divine  records    that  have 
reached  us,  that  those  to  whom  God 
gave  His  revelations,  on  whom  He  im- 
posed the  responsibility  of  performing 
His   work,  and    who  were  His  repre- 
sentatives to  the  people,  were  men  of 
like  weaknesses  as  ourselves.    We  are 
furthermore  told  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon that  God  gives  men  weaknesses, 
that  by  having  weaknesses  they  may 
be  better  prepared,  be  better  able  to 
do   what    He  requires.     There  is  one 
thing  of  which  we  are  satisfied,  that 
there  is  none  that  is  perfect  save  God. 
We  are  instructed  to  seek  to  be  per- 
fect, even  as  God  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ    a^re    perfect;    and    that  Jesus 
Christ  so  advised  shows  to  me  that  it 
is  possible  for  us  so  to  be.    The  Savior 
■  not  say  this  in  derision,  or  in  irony; 
hut  he  so  encourages  us  all  that  we 
may  seek  to  reach  that  which  is  per- 
fect as  near  as  we  possibly  can,  and 
by   so    doing   we   progress.    We  have 
long  since  learned  that  obstacles,  as 
far   as    the    Church  of  Christ  is  con- 
cerned,   are    things    to  be  overcome. 
When  we  speak  of  obstacles  we  mean 
that  they  are  things  that  stand  in  our 
rath,  not  to  prevent  our  progress,  but 


that    we    may  triumph  by  overcoming 
them;  for  most  of  us  have  learned  with 
the  youthful  Prophet  Nephi  that  God 
never  gives  a  commandment  to  men 
but  he  provides  the  way  by  which  that 
commandment  can  be  obeyed.  In  other 
words,  the  Lord  does  not.  ask  impossi- 
bilities of  us.    Many  things  that  have 
been  done  by  this  people  through  the 
grace  of  God  and  by  His  help,  in  gath- 
ering together  to  these  mountains,  and 
the  things  that  have  been  accomplished 
since  we  gathered  here,  not  only  show 
the  overshadowing  hand  of  God  in  our 
favor,  that  He  has  been  with  us  all. 
the  time,  that    He  has  protected  us, 
and  that  He  has  directed  His  servants 
who  have  led  us,  but  also,  looked  at 
humanly,  we  may  say  that  this  people 
have  performed  miracles  in  that  which 
they  have  accomplished  in  the  building 
up    of    this    community  in  this  inter- 
mountain    region.     But    our  history,, 
when  read  in  future  ages,  should  the 
world  continue  as  it  is  now — which,  of 
course,  we    do    not    expect;  but  if  it 
were  possible  in  the  future  to  look  on 
the  present    as    we  now  look  into  the 
past,    if    our  history  could  be  read  in 
this  light,  removed  from  the  obstruc- 
tions that  at  present  obscure  the  view 
of  things  as  they  really  are,  we  shall 
be  surprised  at  what  we  have  accom- 
plished through  God's  help,  the  influ- 
ence   that    we    have    wielded   .in  the 
world,  the  results  of  the  ministry  of 
the  Elders,  and  the  changes  that  we 
have  produced  in  the  world's  history. 
We  are  a  small  people,  but,  as  we  often 
say,  our  numbers  are  not  commensu- 
rate with  our  influence.    God  has  giv- 
en us  power — power  above  our  num- 
bers, and  this  is  so   because   we  are 
seeking    to    serve    Him.    He  has  also 
made  us  a  wealthy  people.    We  may 
not  have    many    multi-millionaires  in 
our  midst;  but  when  we  take  the  riches 
of  this  people,  head  for  head,  I  do  not 
believe  this  Avide  world  over  we  can 
find  any  community  of  a  quarter  of  a 
million  of  people  taking  them  as  we 
would  take  ourselves,  who  are  so  well 
situated  with  regard  to  material  pros- 
perity as  we  are.    And  this  is  but  the 
beginning.    How  often  have  we  heard 
the  servants  of  God  promise  us  that  if 


:20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we    would    be    faithful  to  God,  if  we 
would  keep  His  commandments,  if  we 
would  pay  our  tithing,  if  we  would*  be 
honest  with  the  Lord  and  generous  in 
our  donations,  that  He  would  bless  u.3 
to  an  extent  that  we  could  not  at  pres- 
ent conceive.    I  believe  this  is  so.  The 
little  that  we  have  done  has  brought 
its  reward.    We  none  of  us  claim  that 
we,  as  a  people,  faithfully  observe  the 
law  of  tithing;  yet  the  Lord  has  abun- 
dantly blessed  us.    True,  we  have  been 
thrifty,  we  have  been  patient,  we  have 
been  persevering,  we  have  been  eco- 
nomical— all  of  which  virtues  tend  to 
the  increase  of  material  wealth.  But 
why  have  we  been  so?   We  have  been 
so  because  it  is  the  genius  of  the  Gos- 
pel that  men  should  be  thrifty,  eco- 
nomical and  temperate  in  all  things; 
and  that  the  virtues  which  have  an 
especial  effect  upon  man's  present  con- 
dition should  be  observed  as  well  as 
those    that    more    particularly  affect 
man's    future    life.    The  Lord  is  now 
blessing    us    abundantly  in  our  flocks 
and    herds,  in  our    crops,    and    in  all 
other  respects  in  which  we  materially 
increase,  and  I  believe  He  will  look  to 
us  to  honor  His  law.    Now  is  a  most 
convenient  time,  a  most  proper  time- 
never  a  better  time — when  we  should 
be  faithful  to  the  Lord  in  paying  our 
tithes    and    our    offerings;    that  the 
hands, of  the  servants  of  God  who  bear 
the    responsibilities    of    this  Church 
should  be  loosened;  that  they  should 
not  be  held  under  the  burden  of  debt 
and  the  responsibilities  that  weigh  so 
heavily  upon  their  shoulders — the  re- 
sponsibilities which  President  Wood- 
ruff felt  so  keenly,  and  which  should 
not  be  upon  those  who  bear  authority 
and  presidency  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.    They  should  be  relieved  from 
these  burdens  by  all  of  us  doing  our 
duty,  by  us  observing  those  laws  that 
we    acknowledge,    in    our  testimonies, 
come  from  God.     These  things  affect 
us   all.     We    are    bound    up   in  the 
Church.    What  would  we  be  if  it  were 
not    that    we    are    members    of  the 
Church?    What  should  we  be  without 
the  Church?    What  should  we  amount 
to?    Where  would  our  salvation  be? 
What  could  we  accomplish  alone  and 


singlehanded,  or  in  a  disorganized 
condition  to  further  the  purposes  of 
God  and  prepare  men  for  -  the  coming 
of  His  Son  Jesus  and  for  that  time 
when  the  earth  is  to  be  filled  with  a 
knowledge  of  God,  when  His  purposes 
are  to  be  accomplished,  not  only  in  the 
redemption  of  the  living,  but  also  in 
the  redemption  of  the  dead.  Without 
us,  we  are  told,  they  who  have  gone 
before  cannot  be  made  perfect,  and  we 
without  them  would  be  insufficient  for 
the  fulfillment  of  the  purposes  of  God. 
All  the  various  generations  of  men 
have  to  be  welded  together  in  indis- 
soluble links,  so  that  as  one  great 
whole,  as  one  united  family,  we  may 
be  prepared  for  the  great  final  con- 
summation, when  all  things  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  created  and  made 
shall  be  returned  to  him  in  the  condi- 
tion in  which  they  were  when  he  pro- 
nounced them,  at  the  beginning,  very 
good.  But  in  view  of  this  great  con- 
summation we  sometimes  lose  sight  of 
the  fact  that  it  is  little  by  little  that 
all  these  great  things  are  accomplished. 
We  lose  sight  of  that  truth  that  is 
taught  in  the  verses  our  children  learn 
in  the  primary  departments  in  the 
schools,  that  it  is  "the  little  drops  of 
water  and  little  grains  of  sand"  that 
go  to  make  up  the  ocean  and  the  land 
of  which  this  earth  is  composed.  It  is 
the  little  actions  of  our  lives  that  go 
to  make  up  our  characters.  It  is  the 
minutes  that  make  the  days,  and  the 
days  that  make  the  years,  and  the 
years  that  make  eternity.  So  it  is  'with 
us  in  our  everyday  walk;  in  the  ful- 
fillment of  our  everyday  duties  we 
shall  bear  off  the  kingdom  of  God 
triumphant;  not  so  much  by  .deeds  'of 
heroism  that  few  of  us  may  be  called 
upon  to  perform,  but  by  the  daily,  pa- 
tient, continuous  performance  of  our 
every  day  duties,  laborious  though 
they  may  be,  wearisome  though  they 
may  be,  tiresome  though  they  may  be, 
and  drudgery  though  they  may  some- 
times be.  It  is  by  the  performance  of 
these  duties  that  we  are  building  up 
the  kingdom  of  God,  that  we  are  ac- 
complishing His  purposes,  and  that 
will  eventually  bring  us  that  perfec- 
tion of  character  that  will  enable  us, 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  A  SMITH. 


through  the  mercy  and  blessing  of  God 
and  the  atonement  of  His  Son,  to  en- 
ter into  His  eternal  presence,  and  reign 
with  Him  through  the  years  to  come. 
May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  God  bless  this  conference,  that 
all  that  is  said  and  done  herein  may 


have  God's  approval,  is  my  prayer, 
through  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Light  and  truth  the  world  are  waking. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Charles  W. 
I'oinr.ise. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Friday,  Oct.  7th,  10  a.  m. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Come  all  ye  sons  of  Zdon, 
And  let  us  praise  the  Lord; 

His  ransomed  are  returning, 
According  to  His  word. 

Prayer  by  Elder  George  B.  Wallace. 
The  hymn  which  begins  as  follows, 
was  sung  by  the  choir: 

Great  God,  attend  while  Zion  sings 
The   joy     that    from    Thy  presence 
springs; 

To  spend  one  day  with  Th&e  on  earth 
Exceeds  a  thousand  days  of  mirth. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

The  right  of  the  Saints  to  participate  in  affairs  of 
the  Church— All  should  be  interested— Spiritual 
and  temporal  affairs  inseparable— Necessity  for 
mutual  aid,  industry  and  enterprise— True  order 
of  equality— Principle  of  stewardship— Thoughts 
on  home-building  —  Difficult  personal  exper- 
iences. 

It  is  with  a  feeling  of  great  depend- 
ence upon  the  Lord  that  I  arise  to 
speak  to  you  for  a  short  time.  I  sin- 
cerely desire  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  guided  in 
my  remarks  by  the  Spirit  of  wisdom 
and    by  the    inspiration  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  the  con- 
ference so  far.    I  was  heartily  in  ac- 
cord with  the  remarks  that  were  made 
by  the  brethren  who  spoke  to  us  yes- 
terday.   I  trust  that  the  same  good 
spirit  may  continue  with  us  through- 
out the  conference.    It  is  a  great  priv- 
ilege that  Latter-day  Saints  enjoy,  to 
come  to  this  Tabernacle  once  or  twice 
a  year   to  listen  to  the  voices  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  who  have  been 
chosen  as   our  leaders,   and   to  par- 
take of  the  spirit  which  accompanies 
the  gatherings  of  the  Saints  on  occa- 
sions like   this,   and   to   participate  in 


the  business  which  may  be  brought  be- 
fore the  people  for  .their  consideration 
and  approval.    We    come  together  as 
officers  and  members  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  each 
and   all    of  us   having   rights  and  the 
privilege  to  participate  in  the  affairs 
of    the    Church,    as    to  the  spirit  and 
principle  of  government,  in  the  contin- 
uance   of   our    organizations,  in  sus- 
taining the  measures  that  may  be  pre- 
sented before  us  or  that  may  come  up 
for    consideration    by  the  people.  We 
are  commanded  indeed  that  we  shall 
meet  together  in  conference  to  attend 
to    the  business   of  the  Church.  It  is 
here  that  we  have  the  privilege  of  ex- 
pressing our  faith  and  confidence  or 
otherwise  in  those  men  who  have  been 
appointed  to  fill  the  various  positions 
as  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
from  the  First  President  down  to  the 
last  general  officer  in  the  Church.  This 
is  not  a  mere  form.    There  is  efficacy 
in  it.    It  means  something.   And  it  is 
a  matter  that  we  should  all  appreciate 
and  take  part  in  intelligently,  feeling- 
ly, and  with  an  earnest  desire  in  our 
hearts  to  see  the  Church  of  Christ  es 
tablished  upon  the  foundation  of  direct 
revelation  and  inspiration  from  the  Al- 
mighty.   We  should  come  here  with  a 
determination  in  our  hearts  to  sustain 
that  which  is  good,  and  to  discounte- 
nance that  which  may  not  be  good.  It 
is  our  privilege  and  right  to  determine 
by  the  Spirit  of  God  between  the  right 
and   the  wrong,   between   that  which 
will  build  up  and  sustain  the  work  of 
the  Lord  in  the  earth  and  that  which 
in  its  nature  will  tend  to  disintegrate 
and  destroy  or  to  divide  the  people  of 
God  in  the  earth.    Every  member  of 
the  Church  should  be  deeply  interest- 
ed in  the  welfare  of  the  whole  Church. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Those  who  are  called  to  official  posi- 
tions in  the  Church  are  not  by  any 
means  the  only  ones  who  have  an  in- 
terest in  the  welfare  or  the  advance- 
ment of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Every 
true  and  faithful  Latter-day  Saint 
ought  to  feel  as  earnest  a  desire  in  his 
or  her  heart  for  the  advancement  of 
the  cause  of  Zion  and  for  the  firm  es- 
tablishment of  the  principles  of  truth 
in  the  earth  as  President  Snow,  or  his 
counselors,  or  any  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles, or  any  of  the  leading  authorities 
of  the  Church.  This  Church  is  not  es- 
tablished for  one,  or  for  a  few;  but  the 
great  plan  of  salvation  and  eternal  life, 
which  has  been  revealed  to  "man  in  this 
latter  day,  is  for  the  purpose  of  sav- 
ing and  exalting  all  mankind  who  will 
yield  obedience  to  the  requirements 
that  are  made  of  them.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  argue  the  point  that  all 
men  must  receive  the  truth  and  obey 
it  in  order  to  be  benefitted  by  it.  The 
Lord  has  spoken  from  the  heavens, 
and  men  must  become  acquainted  with 
this  fact.  This  truth  must  be  declared 
unto  men,  and  they  must  receive  it  be- 
fore they  can  be  benefited  by  this 
great  revelation  in  the  latter  day.  All 
men  must  believe;  they  must  repent  of 
sin  and  forsake  it,  in  order  that  they 
may  be  restored  to  fellowship  with 
the  Lord  and  be  brought  into  His  fold, 
be  numbered  as  His  children  and  be- 
come entitled  to  the  special  gifts  and 
blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  God  which 
are  promised  unto  those  who  are  born 
again. 

Having  gathered  together,  as  we 
have  done,  in  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  we  have  great  responsi- 
bilities resting  upon  us.  It  is  our  busi- 
ness, whatever  the  world  may  say 
about  it,  to  look  after  the  temporal 
as  well  as  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the 
people  of  God.  We  cannot  divide  the 
temporal  from  the  spiritual,  or  the 
spiritual  from  the  temporal.  We  can- 
not give  advice  and  counsel  to  the  peo- 
ple calculated  to  benefit  them  spirit- 
ually that  will  not  also  benefit  them 
temporally:  neither  can  we  give  to  the 
people  advice  or  admonition  which 
will  be  beneficial  to  them  from  a  tem- 
poral point  of  view  that  will  not  tend 
to  benefit  and  strengthen  them  spirit- 


ually. We  are  of  a  dual  nature.  We 
are  not  all  spiritual,  neither  are  we  all 
temporal.  The  spiritual  and  the  tem- 
poral are  blended  together.  It  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  in  the  cause  of  re- 
demption, in  which  we  are  engaged, 
that  the  temporal  welfare  of  the  people 
should  be  looked  after,  and  their  tem- 
poral salvation  secured  unto  them  as 
well  as  their  spiritual  salvation.  It  is 
for  this  purpose  that  the  Lord  Al- 
mighty has  gathered  us  out  of  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  called  us  into 
the  tops  of  these  mountains,  where  we 
can  be  organized  according  to  the  pat- 
tern that  He  has  given  to  us,  and 
where,  by  means  of  appointing  officers 
in  the  Church  to  look  after  the  people, 
all  the  people  may  be  guarded  from  the 
evils  of  the  world  by  the  shepherds 
that  are  placed  over  them  in  the  vari- 
ous organizations  of  the  Church,  from 
the  Presidency  down  to  the  Teacher, 
who  is  called  to  minister  unto  the  peo- 
ple in  their  homes.  And  it  is  not  one 
of  the  least  considerations  that  th<B 
people  should  be  provided  with  employ- 
ment, and  be  put  in  a  position  where 
■they  can  obtain  homes  for  themselves, 
so  that  they  may  all  become,  if  they 
are  not  already,  self-sustaining  and, 
so  far  as  temporal  wants  are  con- 
cerned, absolutely  independent.  It  is, 
of  course,  impossible  for  any  individual 
to  become  entirely  independent  of  oth- 
ers. The  Lord  Almighty  has  not  de- 
signed that  we  should  atand  severally 
or  alone  in  the  world.  He  has  made  us 
social  beings,  and  He  has  ordained 
that  we  shall  help  one  another  and  be 
associated  with  each  other.  There- 
fore, no  man  or  woman  can  be  abso- 
lutely independent  of  all  others.  There 
is  a  certain  degree  of  dependency  that 
must  exist.  It  is  perfectly  natural  and 
proper  that  it  should  be  so.  And  that 
consistent  and  natural  relationship 
should  not  be  ignored  nor  forgotten; 
for  the  moment  we  forget  or  ignore  this 
principle  we  become,  us  It  were,  a  law 
unto  ourselves,  and  under  those  con- 
ditions we  are  an  element  of  disorder 
and  of  contention.  It  is  a  law  of  God, 
which  should  be  recognized  by  us, 
that  we  should  love  one  another,  that 
we  should  extend  the  helping  hand  to 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


23 


each  other,  that  we  should  seek  to  do 
good  one  to  another,  and  that  we 
should  uphold  one  another  in  that 
which  is  right  and  acceptable  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord.  But  it  does  not  fol- 
low that  we  should  be  dependent  one 
upon  another  for  the  food  that  we  eat, 
for  the  raiment  we  wear,  and  for  the 
shelter  we  need.  We  will  take,  for  in- 
stance, the  family  unit.  In  a  family 
organization  the  wife  assists  the  hus- 
band, the  husband  assists  the  wife, 
the  children  assist  the  parents,  and  the 
parents  watch  over  and  protect  the 
children.  Thus  they  are  united  togeth- 
er as  one  family.  Now,  in  that  family 
each  member  can  do  something  that 
is  worthy  of  his  hire,  so  to  speak. 
Every  member  of  the  household 
should  be  industrious,  frugal  and  pru- 
dent, and  diligent  and  earnest  in  seek- 
ing the  welfare  and  benefit  of  every 
member  of  the  family.  The  family 
should  be  in  a  position  to  take  posses- 
sion of  a  portion  of  the  earth  that  the 
Lord  has  given  to  us,  for  an  inherit- 
ance: and  by  means  of  industry  and 
labor  and  the  exercise  of  wisdom,  they 
should  be  able  to  obtain  out  of  the 
earth,  and  from  the  flocks  and  herds 
and  the  other  means  of  wealth  which 
the  Lord  has  placed  within  our  reach, 
all  that  is  necessary  to  sustain  the 
family  and  make  it  independent,  so  far 
as  its  food,  raiment  and  habitation  are 
concerned.  And  if  all  the  families  that 
compose  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  were  in  a  position 
to  sustain  themselves  out  of  the  earth 
or  by  the  skill  of  their  labor  the  whole 
Church  would  be  independent  in  this 
respect.  Of  course  it  is  necessary 
that  labor  should  be  diversified.  It  is 
not %  necessary,  nor  would  it  be  pru- 
dent, for  us  all  to  be  farmers.  It  would 
not  do  for  us  all  to  be  mechanics,  or 
manufacturers.  or  merchants.  Ac- 
cording to  the  multiplicity  of  labor  or 
of  openings  for  industry  that  exist  in 
a  community  will  be  the  independence 
of  the  community  and  employment  for 
the  people. 

But  there  are  many  people  who  seem 
to  be  unable  to  obtain  labor,  and  they 
come  around  from  time  to  time  asking 
if  the  brethren  cannot  give  them  em- 


ployment. This  should  never  be  in  any 
community,  and  especially  in  a  com- 
munity of  Latter-day  Saints.  This 
country,  in  the  beginning,  was  called 
Deseret — the  honey  bee — signifying  in- 
dustry; Utah,  in  the  early  days, 
was  likened  to  the  hive  of  bees,  in 
which  every  bee  was  busy  and  was 
supposed  to  be  able  to  do  something 
toward  building  up  and  strengthening 
the  entire  colony.  This  should  be  the 
condition  of  the  people  of  Zion.  Every 
individual  should  be  in  a  position  to 
add  something  to  the  wrealth  of  the 
whole.  Everyone  should  be  increasing, 
improving,  and  advancing  in  some 
way,  and  accomplishing  something  for 
his  or  her  good  and  for  the  good  of  the 
whole. 

Then  again,  it  is  written  that  "it  is 
not  given  that  one  man  should  possess 
that  which  is  above  another."  Of 
course,  there  is  some  allowance  to  be 
made  for  this  expression.  A  man  who 
has  ability  superior  to  another  man, 
and  who  is  able  to  manage  and  control 
larger  affairs  than  another,  may  pos- 
sess far  more  than  another  who  is  not 
able  to  control  and  manage  as  much  as 
he.  But  if  they  each  had  what  they 
were "  capable  of  managing  and  of  us- 
ing wisely  and  prudently,  they  would 
each  have  alike.  It  is  like  the  quart 
and  the  pint  measures.  You  cannot 
put  a  quart  into  a  pint  measure;  but 
you  can  put  a  pint  into  a  quart  meas- 
ure, and  then  you  can  duplicate  it.  If 
the  pint  measure  is  full,  that  is  all  it 
has  capacity  to  hold;  if  the  quart 
measure  is  full,  it  can  hold  no  more; 
and  they  are  equal,  so  far  as  their 
capacity  is  concerned.  I  never  expect 
to  see  the  day  when  we  shall  come  to 
the  iron  bedstead  plan— that  if  a  man 
be  too  long  for  the  bedstead  he  will 
have  to  be  shortened  to  fit  it;  or  if  he 
be  too  short,  he  will  have  to  be 
stretched  out.  I  expect  to  see  every 
man  a  steward  over  his  inheritance, 
and  I  expect  to  see  every  man  man- 
age his  inheritance  according  to  the 
light  and  wisdom  that  he  possesses  and 
in  accordance  with  his  capacity  for 
managing.  If  his  capacity  is  greater 
than  another's  he  will  have  more  than 
another,    because    he  cannot  be  cur- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tailed  in  his  liberties  or  rights  to  do 
good  and  to  magnify,  to  enlarge,  to  in- 
crease, to  be  greater  and  better,  be- 
cause there  is  another  that  cannot  be 
as  great  or  as  good  as  he.  "What  is 
meant  then  by  this  passage  which  says 
that  it  is  not  given  that  one  man 
should  possess  that  which  is  above 
another?  I  take  it  that  in  part  at 
least  it  means  this:  It  is  not  right  for 
one  man,  because  of  superior  advan- 
tages that  he  may  possess  in  a  social 
or  financial  way,  or  in  any  other  way, 
to  take  advantage  of  others  and  to  de- 
prive them  of  that  which  naturally  and 
rightfully  belongs  to  them.  I  under- 
stand, too,  that  it  is  not  right  for  men 
to  combine  together  in  order  to  op- 
press their  fellow  beings  and  to  take 
advantage  of  them.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  forbids  this,  and  commands  that 
it  shall  not  be  in  the  midst  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Furthermore,  the 
Lord  requires  that  when  men  have 
abundance  they  shall  be  as  humble,  as 
economical  and  as  prudent  in  the 
management  of  their  abundance  as  the 
man  who  possesses  much  less  is  ex- 
pected to  be  prudent  and  economical 
in  the  management  of  that  which  la 
given  to  him. 

I  want  to  make  an  application  of 
this  principle  in  the  matter  of  home- 
steads. Only  a  few  days  ago  I  visited 
a  locality  where  I  looked  over  a  broad 
extent  of  country,  containing  large 
fields,  some  of  them  enclosed,  some  of 
them  partly  enclosed.others  not  fenced 
at  all;  many  of  them  cultivated  nicely 
and  carefully,  others  filled  with  weeds 
and  noxious  growths.  The  latter  were 
•not  being  made  useful  to  man,  and  I 
said  to  myself,  why  should  this  be? 
Here  are  opportunities  for  many  men 
to  be  employed.  Some  man  possesses 
here  more  than  he  is  capable  of  Con- 
trolling, more  than  he  can  wisely  han- 
dle, and  he  is  simply  half-doing  or" 
quarter-doing  that  which  should  be 
done,  and  in  a  sense  he  is  depriving 
others  of  privileges  that  they  should 
enjoy.  I  asked  who  owned  a  certain 
field  there.  I  was  told  who  owned  it. 
What  is  the  reason  it  is  not  cultivated? 
The  answer  came,  Because  the  man 
that    owns    it  has  1,800  acres  of  land 


here,  moire  or  less,  and  possessioms  in 
other  parts  of  the  country  and  he  has 
more    than    he  can  attend  to,  so  his 
farm  here  is  left  to  go  to  weeds.  He 
cuts  one  crop  of  lucern  a  year,  where- 
as if  it  were  properly  attended  to  three 
crops  might  be  secured.    I  said  to  my- 
self, Here  is  an  exemplincati-m  of  the 
word  of  the  Lord  that  it  is  not  given 
that    one    man    should    possess  that 
which  is  above  another.    This  man  has 
more    than    he  can  attend  to.  That 
1,800  acres  of  land  more  or  less  ought 
to  be  divided  up.    Other  men  ought  to 
be    invited    there,  and    they  ought  to 
have  the  privilege  of  cultivating  that 
soil,  and  getting  three  times  tne  wealth 
out    of    it  that  this  man  gets.  They 
would  have  an  inheritance  that  they 
could  attend  to,  that  they  could  labor 
wisely  upon,  and  that  they  could  ac- 
complish something  with.   Then,  point- 
ing   to    another    field,  I  asked  whose 
field  is  this.     I  was    told    that  that 
belonged  to  another  man,  who  had  a 
thousand  acres  or  more.    Now,  a  thou- 
sand acres  of  land,  when  it  is  properly 
cultivated,  will  produce  a  great  deal 
towards  the  sustenance  of  man,  and  a 
number  of  men  could  make  a  living  off 
that  land;  whereas  it  is  doing  the  man 
who  now  holds  it,  and  who  is  unable 
to    give    it  the  proper  attention,  one- 
third  the  good  perhaps  it  ought  to  do. 
This  T  consider  to  be  unwise  steward- 
ship.   Our  sons  and  our  daughters  who 
are  seeking  homes  are  under  the  neces- 
sity of  going  to  Idaho,  or  to  Arizona, 
or  to  Mexico,  or  to  Wyoming,  to  find 
land,    when    there  are  fields  on  fields 
nearer  home  that  should  be  opened  up 
and  made  into  homes  for  our  young 
men    and    women.     Why    should  the 
wealthy,     because    they  are  weajthy 
monopolize  the  land,  when  they  them- 
selves cannot  cultivate  it  as  it  ought 
to  be?    It  is  a  wrong  principle,  and  1 
think  advice  and  counsel  might  proper- 
ly be  given  to  some  of  these  rich  men 
that  have  large  tracts  of  land  here  in 
this  valley  in  which  we  live  or  else- 
where which  they  cannot  use  wisely  or 
profitably,  to  persuade  them  to  divide 
it  up  with  their  children  or  with  some- 
body else's  children,  upon  such  terms 
as    the   young   people   will    be  able  to 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


25 


make  homes  for  themselves  near  the 
parental  roof,  instead  of  having-  to  go 
a  long  distance,  and*  leave  the  land 
here  to  be  taken  up  by  strangers.  I 
will  relate  one  other  circumstance.  T 
asked  about  another  farm  there,  and 
was  told  that  the  brother  who  owned 
it  possessed  more  than  a  thousand 
acres  of  land,  all  under  mortgage.  How 
did  he  get  it  mortgaged?  T  asked. 
Well,  this  good  brother,  in  the  land 
boom  that  we  had  some  years  ago,  con- 
ceived the  idea  that  he  could  make 
lots  of  money  by  securing  land  and 
then  selling  it  out  again  at  an  advance; 
but  the  bottom  of  the  boom  fell  out, 
the  money  that  he  borrowed  to  buy 
the  land  with  drew  interest,  and  he 
could  not  make  the  interest  out  of  the 
land  that  he  possessed;  the  result  is 
that  in  a  short  time  it  will  go  into  the 
hands  of  Eastern  people,  who  have  ad- 
vanced money  to  this  good  brother. 
The  meaning  of  that  is  that  a  large 
tract  of  land  together  with  all  the  im- 
provements thereon,  will  ere  long  go 
into  the  hands  of  strangers,  to  be  held 
by  them  in  large  quantities  and  prob- 
ably at  exorbitant  prices,  so  that  our 
young  people  will  be  una'o'e  to  pur- 
chase it,  and  will  be  compelled  to  go 
elsewhere  to  seek  homes  for  them- 
selves, or  else  pay  large  interest  into 
the  coffers  of  money  lenders.  This  is 
all  wrong.  I  said  to  my  friend  that  it 
was  a  great  pity,  the  people  of  the 
neighborhood  could  not  form  a  union 
and  each  contribute  a  portion  of  the 
means  necessary  to  create  a  fund  suffi- 
cient to  redeem  this  land  and  hold  it 
among  themselves.  That,  however, 
did  not  seem  to  be  feasible,  because 
every  man  had  all  -the  land  he  could 
use,  and  nearly  every  one  had  more 
than  he  could  use,  and  therefore  had 
their  hands  full  to  attend  to  their  own 
affairs;  besides,  they  did  not  have  any 
means  to  spare  to  help  another  brother 
out  of  his  trouble  or  to  secure  those 
lands  to  the  people  at  home. 

Now,  I  do  not  object  to  good  people 
owning  land  here,  no  matter  where 
they  live  or  where  they  come  from. 
But  this  is  the  point:  You  and  J  have 
come  here  to  live  and  stay.  We  have 
not  come  here  to  speculate  and  make 


money,  and  then  take  it  away.  We 
came  here  to  make  our  home,  to  live 
and  to  die  here.  But  there  are  people 
who  come  here  simply  to  make  money: 
and  after  they  have  made  money  out 
of  the  people,  they  are  only  too  willing 
to  go  somewhere  else  and  spend  it. 
That  is  not  building  up  Zion,  or  the 
people  at  home.  That  is  not  looking 
after  our  interests  here. 

I  do  not  know  just  how  this  matter 
can  be  worked  out;  but  I  am  satisfied 
that  there  is  a  solution  to  it.  If  I  had 
a  thousand  acres  of  land,  and  I  could 
only  attend  to  a  hundred  acres,  I 
would  try  to  get  nine  other  families  to 
come  on  to  the  land.  I  would  parcel 
out  my  thousand  acres  between  my- 
self and  these  nine  families;  and  I 
would  say  to  them,  "Here  is  the  land; 
cultivate  it,  and  pay  me  out  of  the 
products  of  your  labor  from  year  to 
year  such  an  amount  as  you  can  afford 
until  you  have  paid  for  the  land,  and 
then  I  will  give  you  a  deed  to  it."  If 
I  had  more  land  than  I  could  take  care 
of.  I  would  invite  other  men  to  come 
with  me  and  build  up  a  community, 
and  thus  give  to  others  a  chance  to  live 
as  well  as  myself.  Will  any  of  the 
brethren  do  this  that  have  more  than 
they  can  take  care  of? 

We  have  had  a  bountiful  harvest. 
The  Lord  has  blessed  the  earth,  has 
made  it  extremely  fruitful,  and  the 
people  have  been  greatly  prospered. 
New  let  us  remember  each  other.  Let 
us  look  after  the  poor  and  the  op- 
pressed and  those  who  need  counsel 
and  succor.  Let  us  each  be  interest- 
ed in  the  other.  Let  us  not  leave  it  all 
to  President  Snow,  and  his  counselors, 
and  the  Twelve  Apostles;  not  leave  it 
to  the  Bishops  and  their  counselors,  or 
to  the  official  members  of  the  Church. 
Let  every  man  who  possesses  wealth 
or  an  inheritance  in  Zion,  that  can 
part  with  a  portion  of  it  to  a  brother 
in  some  reasonable  way,  do  so  in  order 
to  help  his  brother  and  to  build  up  our 
country.  Those  who  have  come  to  live 
and  to  die  in  this  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged,  it  is  our  business  to  look 
after  them  first;  and  when  we  have 
^oked  after  them  to  the  utmost,  then 
do  as  much  good  to  others  as  we  possi- 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bly  can.  Our  mission  in  the  world  is 
to  do  good  to  all  mankind. 

These  are  some  of  my  feelings  and 
thoughts  in  relation  to  home-building. 
Many  of  our  people  have  had  to  move 
away    from    here    and  go  to  distant 
parts,  separating    from    kindred  and 
the  homes  of  their  birth,  in  order  to 
find  homes  for  themselves.    This  is  all 
right;    and    whenever    it    !s    done  it 
should  be  done  under  the  counsel  and 
with  the  knowledge  and  blessing  of  the 
authorities  of  the  Church.    Every  man 
holding    a  standing    in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  if 
he  wants  to  move  from  one  place  to 
another,  should  take  his  recommenda- 
tion from  the  Bishop  of  the  ward  where 
he  lives,  to  locate  in  some  other  place 
where    he    can    find    members  of  the 
Church.    I  say  this  is  essential.    It  is 
designed  of  the  Lord  that  we  should 
form  communities,  that  we  should  as- 
sociate   together,    be  one  people,  and 
have  one  faith,   one  Lord,  one  hope, 
and  one  baptism;   that  we  should  be 
united    in    the  labors  of  life,  and  the 
labors  of  life  should  be  to  p -omote  the 
welfare    of    mankind,  to    ir crease  the 
happiness  of  the  children  of  men  and 
their    knowledge    of  those  things  that 
pertain  to.  eternal  life.    For  we  have 
the  words  of  eternal  life,   no  matter 
what    people    think    or    say  about  it. 
We  cannot  stop  to  listen  to  their  ca- 
vilings,  their  disputations,  and  their  de- 
nials of  the  truth.    We  know  that  we 
have    received    the    truth.    We  know 
that  we  have  received  a  portion  of  the 
Spirit  of  truth;  not  in  its  fullness,  for 
we  are  not  perfect.    Now  we  only  see 
and  know  in'  part.    We  never  can  see 
rnd  know  and  feel  perfecetly  until  we 
overcome    the    weakness  of  mortality 
and  bring  ourselves  into  subjection  to 
the  laws  of  God.    The  Lord  h-  Tp  us  to 
do    this,    and    strengthen  us  in  every 
good    desire    of  our    hearts.    For  we 
must    build  up    and    beautify  Zion. 
We    should    encourage    the  people  of 
Zion  to  be  industrious  and  self-sustain- 
ing.    We    must  not  depend  upon  one 
another  for  our  existence  in  that  sense 
We  must  be  working  bees  in  the  hive 
of    Deseret,  industrious,    prudent,  in,- 
stant    in    season    and  out  of  season. 


We  must  find  something  useful  for  our 
hands  to  do.  If  we  cannot  find  it  here, 
let  us  go  somewhere  else  acid  seek  for 
it.  If  you  can  find  out  who  1he&t  men 
are  that  own  from  500  to  2,000  acres  of 
land  in  this  valley  or  elsewhere,  more 
than  they  can  attend  to,  go  and  makj 
a  proposition  to  them  to  take  a  hun- 
dred acres  of  their  land,  make  it  fruit- 
ful, and  pay  to  them  so  much  per  an- 
num until  you  have  paid  for  the  land. 
This,  of  course,  is  only  a  suggestion.  It 
may  not  be  worth  very  much;  but  any 
proposition  tending  to  ameliorate  the 
condition  of  mankind  or  to  open  up 
the  way  before  them,  is  worthy  of  be- 
ing tried.  There  is  nothing  like  trying 
except  success,  and  trying  earnestly 
means  success.  This  idea  of  sitting 
down  and  saying,  "I  cannot,"  is  a  fool- 
ish thing.  No  Latter-day  Saint  should 
get  to  this  condition.  We  should  feel 
in  our  hearts  to  say,  "I  will,  I  can,  I 
must;  my  necessities  require  it;  God 
requires  it;  my  fellow  creatures  re- 
quire that  I  should  do  something  for 
the  common  good;  therefore  I  cannot 
sit  down  and  be  idle,  like  a  leech,  suck- 
ing my  nourishment  from  the  life 
blood  of  my  fellow  beings." 

I  talked  a  little  in  this  strain  at  one 
of  our  late  conferences,  and  was  gross- 
ly, insulted  for  it.  I  received  anony- 
mous letters  from  people  who  said, 
"Try  your  own  medicine."  They 
wanted  me  to  do  what  I  had  advised 
others  to  do.  Now,  to  save  such  the 
trouble  of  repeating  their  suggestion, 
I  want  to  tell  them  that  I  have  not  ad- 
vised you  to  do  anything  that  I  have 
not  done  myself  in  the  ..lays  of  my 
youth.  I  know  what  it  is  to  cultivate 
the  desert  soil.  I  know  what  it  is  to 
take  water  from  the  natural  channels 
and  to  conduct  it  upon  the  dry,  parched 
land,  digging  ditches  for  that  purpose. 
I  was  not  a  blacksmith,  but  I  know 
what  it  is  to  have  to  take  off  the  well 
worn  tires  from  our  old  vagons— the 
worn-out  tires  that  were  used  in  cross- 
ing the  plains— and  taking  them  to  the 
blacksmith,  with  a  crooked  stick  for  a 
beam,  and  with  our  crooked  sticks 
for  handles  and  get  the  blacksmith  to 
make  a  plow  out.  of  our  tires.  I  know 
what  it  is  to  herd  cattle  on  the  plains, 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


27 


and  mountains,  and  in  the  canyons;  for 
I  have  done  it  years  and  years  of  my 
life.   I  know  what  it  is  to  go  into  these 
mountains  and  get  wood  for  fuel,  for 
the  winter's  use,   and  also  for  those 
who  would  buy,  in  order  that  I  might 
get  my  school  books,  or  some  clothing 
that  I  needed.    I  know  what  it  is  to  go 
into    the    canyons    and  cut  poles  feu" 
fencing  farms;  for  I  have  done  that, 
too.    Therefore,  I  have  had  some  ex- 
perience in  these  matters,  and  I  only 
say  to  you  that  which  I  would  do  my- 
self,   if    I    were  in  the  circumstances 
that  I  once  was,  or  in  the  condition 
that  some  of  my  brethren  are  in  today. 
Then,  .too,  in  those  days  we  could  not 
go    to    a    brother  and  borrow  of  him 
that  which  we  needed,  because  all  the 
brethren  were  in  the  same  condition. 
We  could  not  borrow  a  plow,  because 
our  brother  did  not  have  a  plow  per- 
chance; or  if  he  did,  he  needed  to  use 
it  himself  at  the  same  time.  Further- 
more, I  know  how  to  set  a  tire  with 
rawhide.    We  used  to  have  to  do  that. 
I  know  how  to  fasten  the  spokes  of  the 
wheel  in  the  hub  by  wrapping  green 
rawhide    around    the    spokes    to  hold 
them  together,  when  we  could  not  do 
anything  else.    And  we  know  what  it 
is  to  work,  and  toil  and  delve  for  a 
living  out  of  the  barren  soil,  and  that, 
too,  before  the  curse  was  removed  from 
this  soil;  for  the  curse  of  sterility  was 
upon    the  soil  when    we  came  to  this 
valley.    Today  there  are  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  acres  of  land  that  are  produc- 
ing rich  harvests  of  grain  and  fruits, 
which,  when  we  came  into  this  valley, 
could    not    be    cultivated  at  all,  and 
would    scarcely     raise    a  sunflower. 
I  have  seen  the  transformation,  and  I 
know  what  has  brought  it  about.  It 
has  not  all  been  the  labor  of  man.  It 
has  also  "been  through  the  blessing  of 
God  upon  the  soil.    God  has  removed 
the    curse,  has    removed  the  sterility 
from  the  s.oil,  and  has  made  it  fruitful. 
Therefore,  I  give  glory,  honor,  praise 
and  adoration  to  God  my  Father,  the 
giver  of  every  good  and  perfect  gift. 
I  acknowledge    His  hand  in  the  pros- 
perity of  this  people  in  this  State.  I 
acknowledge  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 
upon  all  the  Saints,  in  that  they  have 


been  preserved  from  the  hands  of  their 
enemies,  and  from  the  spirit  of  apos- 
tasy and  darkness,  dissension  and  di- 
vision; that  we  have  had  the  spirit  of 
union  in  our  hearts,  and  of  love  one 
toward  another  and  towards  the  Presi- 
dency and  Apostles  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Let 
us  continue  to  cultivate  this  spirit  of 
union  and  love,  and  of  community-in- 
terest. Let  us  adhere  to  it,  cleave  to 
it  with  undivided  and  unyielding  per- 
tinacity, that  we  may  be  indeed  one, 
that  we  may  be  God's  people;  for  un- 
less we  are  one  we  are  not  His.  God 
bless  you,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Sadnts  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word. 

Benediction  by  Elder  C.  D.  Fjelsted. 


2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins, 

Praise  ye  the  Lord!    my    heart  shall 
join 

In  work  so  pleasant,  so  divine, 
Now,  while  the  flesh  is  my  abode, 
And  when  my  soul  ascends  to  God. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Cannon. 

Singing: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled, 

Ye  nations  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land; 

On  Zion's  mount  behold  it  stand. 

PRESIDENT  F.  D.  RICHARDS. 

Self-support— President  Woodruff's  last  addresses 
— Organizing  the  First  Presidency— The  Prophet 
gave  the  keys  to  the  Twelve— Hour  of  God's  judg- 
m  ent — Wars  are  necessary. 

In  comtemplating  the  duty  immedi- 
ately before  me,  I  earnestly  desire  a  lib. 
eral  measure  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  as- 
sist and  strengthen  me,  to  enlighten 
me,  and  to  enable  'me  to  speak  unto 
your  edification.  I  have  been  very  hap- 
py in  listening  to  the  instructions  that 
have  been  given  us.  I  realize  that  these 
occasions  are  designed  for  our  great 
benefit,  as  spiritual  feasts,  to  refresh 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


us  with  the  words  of  life,  the  spirit  of 
faith,  the  consolation  for  our  trials 
and  temptations,  and  the  enrichment 
in  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  by  which  to 
further  progress  in  the  way  of  life. 

Much  of  the  instruction  that  we  have 
had  pertains  to  matters    of    our  self- 
support  and  our  sustenance,  which  is 
not  only  timely  and  appropriate,  but 
very  important,  because  we  need  con- 
tinually an  enlargement,  an  extension 
of  our  opportunities;    and    there  are 
many  young  people  among  us  who  do 
not  sense  the  importance  of  assuming 
the  responsibilities  of  life  and  settling 
down  into  a  position  in  society,  of  tak- 
ing to  themselves  the  character  of  a 
head  of  a  family,  and  of  establishing 
themselves  among  the  Saints  of  Zion. 
It  should  be  realized  by  all  people  that 
the  comforts  of  life  which  we  have, 
whether  we  get  them  directly  or  indi- 
rectly, come  out  of  the  ground  to  us; 
not  only  our  food,   but  our  raiment, 
from  our  hats  to  our  boots,  and  from 
our  feathers  to  the  finest  wear  we  put 
on.     Then   even   the   gold   and  silver 
and  all  precious  jewels  come  forth  out 
of  the  earth.  They  who  till  the  ground 
and  bring  forth  out  of  it  the  neces- 
saries, the  blessings  and  the  comforts 
ot  life,  by  so  much  'improve  and  in- 
crease the  general  happiness  and  good 
of  all.    There  are  no  portions  of  the 
human  family  that  are  so  independent 
and  comfortable  in  the  ways  of  life 
generally  as  those  that  are  on  a  farm 
which  they  can  attend  to  wisely  and 
profitably,  and  obtain  from  it  the  neces- 
saries of  life.    If  we  could  realize  and 
understand    this    more  perfectly,  and 
think  of  it  more  seriously  and  consider- 
ately, it   would   be    better  for  a  great 
many  of  our  young,  ambitious  men  and 
women,  wno  now  are  seeking  for  posi- 
tions  in   life   to  escape  labor  and  toil. 
While  they  are  establishing  associations 
and   fixing   up    measures    to  cultivate 
their    physical    energies   and  develop 
their  muscles,  the  general  labor  that  is 
to  be  done  in  the  cultivation  of  the  soil, 
the  producing  of  all  that  is  necessary 
for  living,  both  in  the  held  for  men  and 
in    the    house    and    dairy  for  women, 
would  furnish  'all  the  physical  culture 
that  they  need;  and  this  properly  as- 


sorted and  used  would  save  consider- 
able expense  in  that  certain  direction. 

Now  it  has  got  to  that,  as  has  been 
hinted  to  us.,  that  if  any.  large  enter- 
prise is  undertaken,  whether  it  be  a 
private  or  a  public  one,  there  is  a  seek, 
in'g  directly  for  something  or  other  in 
the    shape  of    a  bonus.    If  men  come 
among   us   with    capital  to  do  us  any 
good,    to    put    up  some  machinery  or 
anything  of  that  kind,  they  first  lay 
claim  to  some  bonus.    Whereas,  in  the 
beginning  of  this  work,  everybody  was 
expected  to  take  care  of  himself  and  do 
something  to  help  build  up  the  Church, 
the  thing  is  getting  very  fast  turned 
round  the  other  way,  and  people  now, 
if  t'hey  have  been  unfortunate  in  the 
"boom"  or  through  their  own  careless- 
ness, are  expecting  the  Church  to  turn 
in  and  support  them.    We  have  got  the 
thing  headed  around  the  wrong  way  in 
that  respect.   We  ought  to  continue  the 
plan  and  sentiment  of  sustaining  our- 
selves and  of  having  something  to  help 
build  up  the  Church,  as  in  the  begin- 
ning.  This  sentiment,  if  continued  and 
carried  out,  will  grow  and  extend  until 
our  unoccupied  lands  will  be  occupied 
and  cultivated,  and  these  valleys  will 
be  filled  up,  and  our  settlements  extend 
to  Canada  in  the  north,  to  Mexico  in 
the  south,  and  back  to  Missouri  in  the 
east. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  these  instructions 
given  us  for  our  profit.    I  feel  now  like 
speaking  to  you  some  of  my  own  per- 
sonal reflections,  in  a  different  strain. 
The  last  time  we  heard  our  venerable 
and  beloved  President  Woodruff  speak 
to  us  here,  how  delightfully  he  did  ad- 
dress us,  as  if  he  might  not  have  been 
more  than  forty-five  years  of  age!  He 
gave  us  a  good  long  talk— long  enough 
for  a  common  sermon,  and  it  was  in- 
teresting, instructive  and  emphatic.  It 
would  be  good  for  those  who  did  not 
hear  it,  to  get  and  read  it  occasionally. 
His  last  teachings  all  seemed  to  be  giv- 
en with  a  view  on  his  part  that  it  might 
be  possibly  the  last  that  he  would  say 
to  us.     While    hearing    him  speak  in 
that  excellent,  free  and  enlivening  man- 
ner, I  could  not  help  but  think,  "Is  it 
possible  that  this  will  be  the  last  time 
we  shall  hear  him?"     Well,  President 
Woodruff  has  departed  from  us  in  our 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  *  RICHARDS. 


29 


present  relation,  and  has  gone  to  join 
the  holy  throng — the  Prophet  Joseph, 
the  Patriarch  Hyrum,  and  twelve  ot- 
fifteen  of  the  Apostles  that  have  died 
and  gone  during  his  lifetime  and  ours. 
It  is  only  a  few  years  ago  that  Presi- 
dent Snow  and  I  were  ordained  down 
here  in  the  Old  Fort.  We  have  lived 
to  see  the  members  of  nearly  a  whole 
quorum  depart  hence,  and  we  are  left 
behind,  though  we  are  following  them 
up  as  fast  as  time  will  move  us  on. 

Now,  there  are  certain  peculiar  no- 
tions that  people  sometimes  have. 
Once  in  a  while  there  is  one  who  thinks 
we  were  in  a  hurry  to  get  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church  filled  up,  almost  be- 
fore it  was  decent  and  proper  in  their 
estimation.  I  want  to  say  a  little  about 
that.  There  is  no  standard  of  human 
invention,  no  precedent  among  man- 
kind, that  can  determine  how  long  or 
how  short  that  period  shall  be.  But 
the  Lord  has  determined  a  rule  for  it. 
Back  in  the  days  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  was  slain,  and  the  Church  was 
left  without  him  here  upon  the  earth, 
the  whole  people  mourned — mourned  as 
we  have  never  known  how  to  mourn 
since.  I  want  to  tell  you  Saints,  that 
felt  you  mourned  when  President  Young 
died,  when  President  Taylor  died,  or 
now  that  President  Woodruff  has  de- 
parted from  us,  it  is  no  such  mourning 
as  was  felt  through  all  Nauvoo  and 
among  all  the  Saints  when  the  Prophet 
and  Patriarch  were  slain.  It  just 
seemed  as  if  everything  around  us, 
even  the  animals,  the  trees  and  the  hab- 
itations, were  clothed  in  mourning.  We 
felt  his  absence,  because  he  was  to  us 
instead  of  God.  He  directed  us  in  every- 
thing, taught  us  in  all  the  great  prin- 
ciples that  pertain  to  our  salvation  and 
exaltation  throughout  all  this  mortal 
existence  and  clear  into  the  eternities. 
Anybody  that  has  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion, and  who  will  read  the  last  revela- 
tions that  he  gave  us,  cannot  help  but 
wonder  and  admire,  and  comprehend 
something  of  the  great  mind  and  ca- 
pacity of  soul  that  he  had  acquired  dur- 
ing his  short  experience,  in  the  Gospel, 
of  twenty-four  years  here  in  the  flesh. 

Now,  when  he  wras  taken  away,  it 
was  the  first  great  and  terrible  ex- 
perience in  that  line,  and  there  was  no 
rule  left  when  the  Church  organization 


should  be  perfected.  Let  me  cite  you  to 
a  few  facts  in  connection  with  this. 
When  that  event  occurred,  the  Apostles 
were  all  away  throughout  the  United 
States,  on  missions,  except  John  Taylor 
and  Willard  Richards.  They  were  in 
prison  with  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Presi- 
dent Taylor  was  shot  nearly  to  pieces, 
so  that  he  had  like  to  have  died,  ac- 
cording to  all  human  appearance.  Wil- 
lard just  lost  a  drop  of  blood  from  one 
of  his  ears;  a  ball  whistled  so  near  that 
it  broke  his  skin  and  let  a  drop  of  blood 
mingle  with  the  others.  The  Prophet 
Brigham  was  in  Boston,  with  Apostle 
Woodruff.  It  was  a  sad  'and  sorrowful 
time.  Immediately -the  Prophet  Joseph 
was  slain,  one  man  and  anotlier,  and 
another,  who  had  been  taught  by  him 
to  comprehend  some  great  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  came  to  feel  so  important 
that  one^  man  said,  since  Joseph  was 
dead  there  was  no  man  living  to  whom 
he  owed  allegiance.  He  therefore,  in 
the  greatness  of  his  self-importance, 
gathered  up  his  family  with  a  few 
others  and  went  away  to  Texas.  Ly- 
man Wight  was  this  man,  whose  cog- 
nomen among  the  Twelve  was,  "the 
wild  ram  of  the  mountain."  By  and  by 
one  of  his  sons  returned  to  us..  Another 
man,  Alpheus  Cutler,  in  the  greatness 
of  his  experience  and  self-sufficiency, 
took  his  family  and  some  friends  and 
went  to  a  northern  state,  making  a 
camp  of  his  own,  ready  to  build  up  a 
city,  a  people,  a  nation,  and  become  a 
prophet.  George  Miller,  one  of  the  pre- 
siding Bishops,  also  started  with  a -few 
and  went  off  among  the  Poncha  Indi- 
ans. Another  one,  James  J.  Strang, 
who  thought  he  had  the  thing  fixed  so 
it  had  come  to  stay,  went  off  with  a 
few  to  Beaver  Island,  in  Lake  Michigan, 
and  carried  on  his  operations  for  a 
while,  till  by  and  by  one  of  his  follow- 
ers sickened  of  him  and  assassinated 
him.  This  is  the  way  these  great  men, 
who  tho'ught  they  were  somebody,  have 
gone  in  the  'Strength  of  their  own  en- 
dowments, feeling  themselves  as  great 
as  Joseph  the  Prophet.  How  was  it, 
when  the  Prophet  Brigham  came  back 
to  Nauvoo,  that  he  realized  that  the 
powers  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  keys 
thereof  had  come  down  upon  him?  He 
went  and  stood  in  his  place.  Sidney 
Rigdon  wanted  to  become  a  "guardian" 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  the  Church,  to  guide  and  lead  them 
till  he  should  see  Joseph  again.  And 
thus,  one  after  another,  these  different 
influences  wrought.  About  this  time, 
too,  to  fill  up  the  cup  and  make  it  run 
over  and  'to  accomplish  the  wickedness 
of  the  world,  a  mob  got  around  and 
forced  the  Twelve,  when  'they  got  back 
to  Nauvoo,  to  enter  into  an  agreement 
with  them  that  'they  and  the  people 
would  get  up  and  leave  the  country. 
This  they  did.  They  made  their  ar- 
rangements, and,  as  quick  as  we  could 
finish  the  Temple  and  get  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  us,  the  Saints  started 
out  into  the  wilderness  to  find  a  coun- 
try as  far  from  civilization  as  they 
could. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  had  a  feeling  or 
a  premonition  of  what  might  be,  and 
we  find  it  on  the  record  of  his  history 
that  he  felt  forebodings  that  he  might 
not  stay  to  see  that  Temple  completed. 
He  took  the  Twelve  aside — those  who 
were  faithful — and  he  gave  them  their 
endowments  in  'a  holy  place,  in  a  new 
building  that  he  consecrated  for  that 
purpose.  He  placed  upon  them  the 
keys,  'authority  and  powers  which  the 
Lord  and  the  angels  had  conferred 
upon  him.  You  recollect  that  John  the 
Baptist  came  and  ordained  Joseph  and 
Oliver  to  the  Aaroruc  Priesthood.  Peter, 
James  and  John  came  and  ordained  him 
and  Oliver  unto  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood— the  holy  Apostleship.  In  the 
Temple  at  Kirtland,  Moses,  Elias  and 
Elijah  appeared  and  conferred  upon 
him  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel, 
of  the  Gospel  of  Abraham,  and  of  the 
turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children  and  the  children  to  their 
fathers.  Joseph  called  the  brethren 
aside  and  placed  all  these  keys,  powers 
and  blessings,  that  he  had  received, 
upon  them.  You  have  heard  President 
Woodruff  testify  of  this,  and  of  the 
great  work  and  marvelous  power 
thereof.  Well,  these  things  bestowed 
upon  the  brethren  caused  some  men  to 
become  headstrong,  and  in  view  of  what 
they  knew  they  thought  they  could 
build  up  the  Church  unto  God,  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God,  and  stand  at  the 
head  of  it  themselves. 

While  this  was  going  on,  the  powers  of 
the  Priesthood  rested  down  upon  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  and  President  Young 


always  took  pains  to  have  a  majority 
of  them  within  reach,  where  he  could 
arrange  for  any  decision  that  he  found 
it  necessary  to  make.  He  had 
a  great  vison,  in  which  Joseph 
said  to  us  through  him,  "Get  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  keep  it."  That  is  u. 
great  injunction  that  is  upon  us  all.  If 
we  want  to  go  where  these  men  are, 
we  must  get  the  Holy  Spirit  and  walk 
in  the  light  of  it.  After  he  and  the 
Pioneers  had  been  out  here  and  had 
found  this  place  fori  us  to  come  to  live 
in,  and  then  went  back  to  the  Missis- 
sippi river,  in  Winter  Quarters,  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  revelation  of  the 
Lord,  came  upon  him.  It  was  about 
two  years  and  a  half,  on  that  occasion, 
that  the  Church  had  been  without  a 
First  Presidency,  till  the  Lord  made 
manifest  to  them,  in  Winter  Quarters, 
about  December,  1847,  that  the  organ- 
ization s'hould  be  completed.  There  be- 
ing no  good  place  for  it,  they  picked 
out  men  and  set  them  to  work  to  build 
a  tabernacle  in  Kanesville,  for  the  con- 
ference. At  that  conference  the  First 
Presidency  was  accepted,  and,  accord- 
ing to  the  dictation  of  the  revelation, 
they,  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball and  Willard  Richards,  were  upheld 
by  the  unanimous  consent  and  vote  and 
prayers  of  God's  people.  Thus  the  first 
great  calamity  to  the  Church  was  reme- 
died, and  the  fulness  of  the  Priesthood 
Was  again  restored. 

In  1849  the  Presidency  and  the  breth- 
ren got  together  down  in  the  old  fort 
here,  and  there  was  a  series  of  confer- 
ences and  councils  held,  where  four  of 
the  brethren  were  ordained  unto  the 
Apostleship,  to  fill  the  vacancies  made 
by  those  who  had  been  promoted  to  the 
First  Presidency,  and  of  this  number 
were  Brothers  Charles  C.  Rich,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  Erastus  Snow  and  myself.  For 
ten  years  and  a  half  I  was  the  young- 
est member  of  the  quorum,  and  when  I 
look  back  it  seems  marvelous  to  me 
that  I  have  lived  to  see,  in  about  fifty 
years,  nearly  a  whole  quorum  of  Apos- 
tles pass  away  to  the  other  world.  They 
have  gone  to  labor  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  they  cannot  feel  lonesome. 
I  cannot  help  but  think  how  happy 
President  Woodruff  must  be  in  getting 
into  their  society,  and  rejoicing  and 
glorifying  God  in  the  great  work  there 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


31 


of  preparing  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

When  it  came  to  pass  that  President 
Brigham  Young  departed  from  us,  then 
there  was  another  period  when  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  came  upon 
the  Twelve.  During  this  period  it  de- 
volved upon  President  John  Taylor,  the 
President  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
this  continued  for  a  while.  At  that 
time  it  was  so  that  a  number  of  the 
brethren  of  the  Twelve  were  but  young 
men,  not  of  long  experience,  and  we  had 
to  have  a  little  time  to  get  acquainted 
with  each  other,  and  we  had  to  labor  to 
accomplish  the  things  that  were  re- 
quired. During  this  time  some  enter- 
tained ideas  of  one  kind,  some  of 
another.  It  was  thought  that  some 
should  be  brought  to  the  Presidency 
who  were  not  entitled  to  it,  and  we  had 
to  take  a  little  time  to  learn  and  in- 
quire into  the  mind  of  the  Lord  on 
these  matters.  By  and  by,  when  we  had 
come  to  a  proper  state  of  feeling,  to  an 
entire  unanimity,  .and  when  the  Lord 
saw  fit,  He  made  it  manifest  unto  the 
Twelve  that  the  First  Presidency  should 
again  be  organized.  Whereupon  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor  was  called  to  be 
President  of  the  Church,  and  Apostles 
Geo.  Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph  F.  Smith 
were  called  to  be  his  counselors. 

Now,  I  want  'to  say  to  you  that  the 
only  rule  there  is  about  constructing 
the  First  Presidency  is  this:  When  the 
quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  are  of 
one  heart  and  of  one  mind,  and  they  at- 
tain to  that  faith  that  the  Lord  will 
make  manifest  His  will,  then  is  the  time 
when  the  Presidency  are  appointed. 
There  is  no  other  precedent  established, 
only  to  obtain  the  fellowship,  the  union 
and  the  faith  of  the  council  to  prevail 
with  the  Lord  to  make  manifest  these 
things  unto  them. 

So  again,  when  President  Taylor  died, 
we  were  left  in  a  similar  condition,  and 
the  Twelve  held  the  direction  of  affairs. 
By  and  by,  when  it  came  the  proper 
time,  when  we  felt  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  burning  in  all  our  hearts,  wnen 
the  word  of  the  Lord  came  to  President 
Woodruff,  then  another  Presidency  was 
constructed.  It  was  done  by  the  same 
rule — all  were  agreed  and  united,  and 
prevailed  with  the  Lord  to  make  mani- 
fest His  will  about  it. 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are 
some  truths  greater  than  other  truths. 
As  the  Lord  said  to  Abraham, where  you 
see  one  truth  greater  than  another, 
then  you  may  know  there  is  another 
truth  greater  than  that.  The  great 
truth  that  regulates  us  in  all  these 
matters  is  the  truth  of  being  united. 
The  Lord  has  told  us  in  the 
revelations  that  except  'we  are 
one  we  are  not  His.  That  is 
a  great,  capital  truth;  and  If 
you  will  carry  it  with  you  into  your 
wards  and  into  your  Stakes,  as  also 
into  your  families,  you  will  find  a  great, 
capital  blessing  with  it  everywhere. 

When  President  Woodruff  was  taken 
from  us,  how  were  we?  Why,  we  had 
nobody  that  wanted  to  go  off  to  Cal- 
ifornia, to  Canada,  to  Mexico,  or  to  the 
Sandwich  Islands  even,  to  set  up  a 
church  of  his  own;  but  we  were  all 
here — the  two  counselors  that  remained 
and  the  Twelve  Apostles,  fourteen  in 
all.  When  we  were  thus  together,  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  under  those 
circumstances  and  a^  that  time  there 
were  no  opposing,  contending  influ- 
ences. There  was  nobody  wanted  to  go 
away  and  set  up  a  kingdom.  But  we 
were  united.  And  I  want  to  testify 
that  a  great  measure  of  this  blessing  of 
unity,  fellowship  and  love  has  come 
down  upon  us,  and  through  us  to  the 
people,  by  the  untiring  zeal,  energy  and 
devotion  of  President  Lorenzo  Snow. 
While  he  was  President  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  he  labored  diligently  unto  this 
end;  and  I  have  never  seen  a  time,  nor 
have  you  ever  seen  a  time,  in  this  dis- 
pensation, when  there  was  a  more  cor- 
dial, solid  unanimity  in  the  Presidency 
and  Apostles  of  the  Church  than  there 
is  to-day. 

When  we,  as  the  Apostles,  accepted 
the  responsibility  to  preside,  President 
Cannon  took  his  seat  in  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  where  he  occupied  it  before 
he  left  it  as  a  counselor  to  President 
Woodruff.  President  Jos.  F.  Smith  did 
the  same.  The  *  Twelve  Apostles  as- 
sumed the  presidency  of  the  Church,  al- 
though it  was  but  for  a  short  time — 
from  September  2nd  to  September  13th. 
On  the  latter  day  we  were  together, 
and  in  contemplating  the  interests  of 
the  Church,  temporal  and  eternal,  we 
remembered    the    words  of  President 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Woodruff  while  he  was  with  us,  that  he 
did  not  think  the  Church  should  be  long 
without  its  full  organization,  and  it  be- 
gan to  burn  in  our  hearts.  One  after 
another  felt  as  If  a  First  Presidency- 
ought  to  be  organized,  if  the  word  of 
the  Lord  were  so;  and  directly  the  word 
of  the  Lord  was  given  to  us  that  the 
time  had  come  to  organize,  and  so  we 
organized.  President  Lorenzo  iSnow  and 
his  counselors  were  presented,  and  ac-; 
cepted  by  the  brethren  in  council,  as  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  We 
were  all  united  on  it,  our  hearts  were 
warm  in  it,  the  fire  of.  the  Lord  burned 
in  every  bosom,  and  we  could  not  keep 
still  for  the  joy  we  had  in  this  thing. 

Now,  that  is  the  only  rule  there  is  in 
regard  to  filling  or  keeping  open  the  va- 
cancy of  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  It  is  when  the  brethren  are 
united  in  the  love  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  When  the  word  of  the 
Lord  comes  to  us, 'it  tells  us  what  to  do, 
when  to  do,  and  how  to  do.  So  that  no 
one  need  feel  that  we  have  waited  too 
short  a  time  'after  President  Woodruff's 
departure  to  make  it  both  decent  and 
proper  to  fill  the  vacancy.  When  the 
Lord  speaks,  then  is  the  time!  When 
His  mind  is  made  manifest,  we  should 
honor  and  accept  it,  and  carry  it  out 
to  the  uttermost.  I  rejoice  in  that  the 
Lord  is  so  ready  to  make  manifest  to 
us;  that  we  did  not  have  to  wait  two 
years  and  a  half,  nor  a  year  and  a  half, 
for  Him  to  give  it  to  us. 

President  Woodruff  was  full  of  teach- 
ing concerning  the  last  instructions  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  to  the  Apostles, 
and  the  blessings  he  put  upon  them. 
Brother  Woodruff  was  the  last  one  of 
that  distinguished  Council  of  the 
Twelve  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  ad- 
ministered to  personally;  not  in  the 
Temple  (it  was  before  the  Temple  was 
completed),  but  in  a  retired  place,  where 
only  a  very  few  knew  of  It.  It  was 
necessary  that  they  should  have  this 
blessing,  so  that  if  Joseph  should  be 
taken  away  it  might  be  instituted  and 
carried  on  in  the  Temple,  when  the 
Temple  was  completed.  Oh,  blessed  be 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  for  that  he 
caused  it  to  be  brought  about  in  this 
way!  And  blessed  be  His  holy  name, 
too,  that  he  caused  us  to  be  roused  up 
out    of    our    homes  and  sent  out  into 


these  mountains  before  that  war  of  the 
Rebellion  came  upon  us.  Oh,  how  we 
hated  to  go!  But  how  true  the  Lord 
made  His  word  to  come  out  when  He 
said,  "My  people  shall  be  willing  in  the 
day  of  my  power."  He  knew  how  to 
make  us  willing,  although  it  took  mobs 
to  come  upon  us  and  kill  our  brethren, 
the  Prophets. 

Brethren,  this  great  work  is  upon  us. 
The  Lord  has  given  us  some  singular 
features  connected  with  it.  One  of  them 
is  this:  He  has  said  by  the  mouth  of 
the  angel  that  the  hour  of  His  judg- 
ment is  come.  The  'Savior,  in  looking 
down  into  our  time,  as  recorded  in  the 
24th  chap,  of  Matthew,  told  the  breth- 
ren that  in  the  last  days  not  only  should 
false  Christs  and  false  Prophets  ap- 
pear and  try  to  lead  away  many,  but 
He  told  them  that  in  these  times  there 
should  be  wars  and  rumors  of  wars, 
and  great  distress  among  all  nations; 
and  so  great  should  be  the  trouble  and 
distress  that  it  should  be  only  a  vexa- 
tion to  understand  the  report  thereof 
Now  then,  what  do  we  see?  We  have 
already  lived  to  see  wars  in  our  day. 
They  are  a  necessary  concomitant  to 
this  latter-day  work.  They  cannot  be 
avoided.  They  are  a  necessary  part  of 
the  latter-day  program.  Let  me  draw 
your  minds  a  little  to  some  of  the  cir- 
cumstances, and  see  if  it  is  not  so.  I 
look  upon  it  as  part  of  the  great  phil- 
osophy of  the  last  days'  dispensation, 
that  the  wars  of  our  times  are  just  aa 
necessary  in  the  fulfilling  of  the  word 
and  the  work  of  the  Lord  as  are  any 
others  of  His  gracious  promises  made 
to  us.  It  was  necessary  to  have  this 
liberal  government  that  His  Church 
might  be  established  upon  this  land. 
He  could  not  have  done  it  in  any  ot 
the  monarchies  of  the  old  world.  Why 
was  it  that  there  was  a  dissatisfied 
element  called  non-conformists?  It 
was  so  with  them,  between  the  re- 
formers and  the  Catholics,  that  they 
could  not  stay  and  be  comfortable,  and 
they  had  to  go  off  to  Holland,  to  get  a 
retreat  where  they  could  survive,  wor- 
ship God  and  entertain  the  faith  they 
believed  in.  Directly,  when  Columbus 
had  discovered  this  country  and  it 
came  the  proper  time,  these  same  non- 
conformists, afterwards  called  Puritans, 
came  over  to  America  as  fast  as  tihey 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


could — they  who  were  not  tied  up  to 
papacy  nor  to  the  Church  of  England, 
but  who  felt  a  desire  for  more  liberty 
to  worship  God,  came  over  here,  and 
they  became  the  thirteen  little  colonies 
away  down  on  the  Atlantic  coast.  What 
was  the  result  of  it?  They  had  to  have 
a  war,  declare  their  independence,  and 
become  a  people  to  themselves  before 
they  could  obtain  that  liberty  to  wor- 
ship thait  was  required  before  the  Lord 
sent  His  revelations  among-  them.  War 
was  actually  necessary  to  bring-  step  by 
step  the  liberty  the  human  family  has. 

We  get  along  a  little  further,  and  the 
Prophet  Joseph  was  among  us.  The 
Saints  were  driven  from  New  York 
state  to  Kirtland,  from  Kirtland  to 
Missouri,  and  then  from  city  to  city. 
The  first  mission  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles was  to  New  England.  A  few  peo- 
ple receive  it.  The  leading  men  of  the 
Church— the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  Hy- 
rum,  Brigham  and  Heber — were  from 
the  Eastern  states.  Buit  how  was  it  in 
the  South?  When  we  sent  our  Elders  in- 
to the  Southern  States  they  persecuted 
them.  Elders  Wilford  Woodruff  David 
W.  Patten  and  Jedediah  M.  Grant  suc- 
ceeded in  getting  a  few  from  those 
states;  among  the  rest,  Brother  A.  O. 
Smoot,  late  president  of  the  Utah 
Stake.  But  no  considerable  work  was 
ever  done  in  the  'Southern  States  until 
after  the  war  of  the  rebellion.  That 
came  and  destroyed  about  a  million 
souls,  and  that  destruction  produced 
liberty  to  the  sl'aves.  After  that  the 
Gospel  could  go,  and  it  is  having  free 
course  until  there  are  many  scores  of 
our  Elders  there,  and  in  some  of  these 
states  our  people  have  meeting  houses, 
branches,  societies  and  schools.  The 
work  is  being  established  and  taking 
root  among  the  people.  You  see,'  the 
war  was  necessary  to  bring  that  about. 
Of  course,  we  never  could  have  got  into 
the  Southern  States  if  something  had 
not  happened  to  break  off  the  bonds  of 
the  African,  so  that  slavery  might  be 
abolished. 

So  we  may  look  all  along  the  experi- 
ence of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Let  me 
take  you  across  into  the  old  country. 
When  I  was  over  there  in  1895,presiding 
in  Europe,  the  work  was  going  on  in 
Great  Britain,  Scandinavia  and  Swit- 
zerland.  A  voice  came  over  from  Dres- 


den and  wanted  to  know  what  was  this 
doctrine  they  heard  of.  We  adopted 
measures  to  send  it  over  to  them.  How 
did  we  do  it?  Here  is  Brother  Maeser, 
known  to  all  Israel,  the  first  fruits,  I 
may  say,  of  the  German  confederacy. 
We  went  over  there  and  in  the  dead 
hour  of  the  night  baptized  eight  souls 
in  the  river  Elbe.  But  they  could  not 
stay  a  great  while  before  they  were 
driven  away.  Brother  'Maeser,  after  a 
little,  was  put  in  charge  of  a  policeman, 
who  took  him  across  the  province  and 
delivered  him  to  another,  and  he  was 
taken  from  one  place  to  another  until 
he  came  over  to  me  at  Liverpool.  At 
those  times  we  could  do  very  little,  al- 
most nothing.  Brothers  Orson  Spencer 
and  Jacob  Houtz  were  appointed  to  go 
there  and  see  if  they  could  start  a  mis- 
sion. They  went,  and  on  every  appli- 
cation to  preach  in  the  confederacy 
they  were  given  notice  that  they  had 
so  many  hours  to  get  out;  so  they  had 
to  leave.  Again,  Apostle  Orson  Pratt 
and  Brother  William  W.  Riter  were 
sent  over  to  Austria,  to  see  if  perhaps 
over  there  some  better  opportunity 
might  be  found;  but  they  labored  with- 
out being  able  to  establish  a  church. 
The  work  did  not  seem  to  take  hold, 
and  they  came  back  without  accom- 
plishing a  great  deal  in  the  way  of  es- 
tablishing a  church  in  that  country. 
But  latterly  what  has  been  the  fact? 
Why,  when  that  war  arose  between 
France  and  Germany,  over  Alsace  and 
Lorraine,  it  had  the  effect  of  loosening 
up  the  bonds.  Quietly  and  gradually 
our  brethren  are  now  preaching  the 
Gospel  among  that  people,  and  the  work 
of  God  is  progressing,  though  some- 
times the  brethren  are  banished.  Only 
a  little  while  ago  President  Snow's  son 
was  banished  from,  a  province.  When 
they  were  banished  they  did  as  the 
Savior  said — being  driven  from  one 
place  they  fled  to  another. 

Thus  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  going 
on.  These  wars  have  to  occur  to  loosen 
up  the  bonds  of  the  governments  that 
are  so  tight  and  strong  against  relig- 
ious liberty.  I  set  it  down  as  a  fixed 
principle  that  these  wars  are  going  to 
be  as  necessary  to  the  progress  of  lib- 
erty in  this  dispensation  as  are  the  la- 
bors of  our  Elders.  We  have  got  to  ac- 
cept these  things.   And  if  our  sons  have 


34 


GENERAL  COhFERENCE 


to  go  away  in  the  wars,  we  must  arm 
'them  with  the  power  of  God,  with  the 
power  of  faith;  our  prayers^  must  go 
after  them;  and  by  and  by  these  sons 
will  rise  up  to  be  mighty  men  of  Zion; 
when  that  time  comes  that  man  will 
say,  "Let  us  not  go  up  against  Zion,  for 
the  inhabitants  thereof  are  terrible." 
They  will  go  to  other  places,  where  the 
prey  is  easier  to  acquire.  .  So  then  we 
need  not  be  worried.  Mothers,  do  not 
be  troubled  about  your  sons  who  are 
away  in  the  war.  The  Lord's  eyes  are 
over  them;  the  holy  anointing  is  upon 
them.  Most  of  them,  perhaps  all,  have 
the  Priesthood,  and  they  will  call  upon 
the  Lord,  and  He  will  deliver  them, 
make  them  mighty,  give  them  distinc- 
tion, and  they  will  come  as  the  sons  of 
Brother  Brigham  have  come — to  places 
of  prominence,  and  by  and  by  'they  may 
have  to  lead  the  armies  of  Israel.  These 
things  are  a  part  of  the  business. 

"We  want  no  cowards  in  our  band, 
Who  will  our  colors  fly; 

We  call  for  valiant-hearted  men, 
Who're  not  afraid  to  die. 

They  that  are  not  afraid  to  die  are 
the  ones  'that  are  likeliest  to  live.  The 
Lord  has  said,  "'He  that  loseth  his  life 
for  my  sake,  shall  find  it,"  even  life 
everlasting-. 

I  rejoice  in  the  great  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  know  it  is  true.  I  found  that 
out  a  long  time  ago.  I  only  wish  I  could 
do  more  to  further  it  and  to  help  pro- 
mote the  cause.  I  strive  to  live  my  re- 
ligion, and  I  feel  thankful  for  the  de- 
gree of  confidence  and  love  which  you 
show  to  me  from  time  to  time,  as  well 
as  to  all  of  my  brethren.  I  pray  you, 
my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  be  you 
strengthened  in  this  Conference  by  all 
the  counsels  you  get.  Let  every  man 
who  is  the  head  of  a  family  realize  that 
he  wants  to  labor  for  the  benefit  ol 
every  soul  the  Lord  has  given  him  to 
come  forth  out  of  his  loins,  that  he 
may  be  able  to  have  by  and  by  a 
righteous  seed,  a  numerous  seed  in  the 
earth,  and  partakers  of  those  blessings 
that  were  sealed  upon  the  fathers  an- 
ciently, and  have  since  been  sealed 
upon  us,  their  children.  I  pray  the  Lord 
to  bless  you,  to  bless  us  all,  with  health 
of  body,  strength  of  mind,  and  a  spirit 
to  prefer. Zion  and  her  interests  above 
all  things.      In    ancient    times,  when 


Zion's  interests  were  concentrated  on 
the  hill  of  Jerusalem,  David  said: 

"If  I  forget  thee,  O  Jerusalem,  let  my 
right  hand  forget  her  cunning. 

"If  I  do  not  remember  thee,  let  my 
tongue  cleave  to  the  roof  of  my  mouth, 
if  I  prefer  not  Jerusalem  above  my 
chief  joy." 

Let  us  then  make  it  our  study  to  love 
Zion  above  all  things,  and  seek  to  live 
to  bring  her  interests  to  pass.  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  bless  all  the  interests  ol 
Zion,  and  help  us  to  live  to  honor  Him, 
to  love  to  do  His  will  as  long  as  He 
likes  to  have  us  tarry  in  the  flesh,  that 
when  we  go  it  may  be  well  with  us,  as 
we  believe  it  to  be  well  with  these  our 
brethren  who  have  gone  before  us. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Necessity  for  Faith  and  Courage — Example  of 
Nephi — Church  officers  should  be  exemplars— 
The  Church  perpetuated— Prophecies  fulfilled— 
Personal  testimonies. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having  the 
privilege  once  more  of  assembling  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  General  Con- 
ference, and  I  earnestly  desire  that  the 
time  I  may  occupy  this  afternoon  may 
be  for  our  mutual  benefit;  that  the 
Lord  will  inspire  my  inind,  that  I  may 
be  prompted  to  say  something  that  will 
strengthen  our  faith  and  renew  our  de- 
termination to  press  forward  valiantly 
in  the  discharge  of  the  duties  and  the 
obligations  that  rest  upon  us  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  never  had 
any  other  desire  in  standing  before  the 
Latter-day  Saints  than  that  I  might 
be  able  to  say  something  for  their  good 
and  for  my  own  good,  and  that  would 
be  calculated  to  increase  that  deter- 
mination that  ought  to  animate  each 
and  every  Latter-day  Saint,  to  "seek 
first  the  kingdom  of  God." 

I  realize  that  we  all  have  our  weak- 
nesses, and  that  we  do  and  say  many 
things  that  are  not  pleasing  in  the 
sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father;  but  if 
we  desire  above  all  other  things  upon 
this  earth  to  know  the  mind  and  will 
of  God,  and  if  we  desire  the  strength 
of  character,  after  we  shall  learn  the 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


35 


mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
to  carry  it  out  in  our  lives,  I  do  know 
that  God  will  help  us,  and  that  as  we 
grow  in  years  and  in  knowledge  and 
in  understanding  that  we  will  grow 
also  in  the  power  and  the  ability  to  ac- 
complish His  will. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the 
teachings  of  this  conference.  When 
President  Cannon  was  preaching  of 
the  faith  needed  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  there  came  to  my  mind  that 
scripture  which  was  quoted  here  yes- 
terday by  Brother  Cowley,  from  the 
Prophet  Nephi,  that  faithful  man,  and 
I  felt  in  my  heart  that  when  it  came 
my  time  to  speak  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  I  should  quote  that  passage  to 
them,  and  urge  upon  them  to  gain  the 
same  faith  that  Nephi  of  old  had;  and 
I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  was 
borne  here  by  Brother  Cowley  when  he 
quoted  that  passage  to  us  in  our  meet- 
ing. 

I  feel  that  there  is  an  abundance  of 
room  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  cul- 
tivate that  faith.  I  feel  that  we  should 
learn  never  to  become  discouraged.  I 
endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  remarks 
of  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith,  that  we 
should  never  become  discouraged,  but 
that  we  should  always  be  full  of  faith, 
full  of  determination  to  labor  for  the 
onward  advancement  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  upon  the  earth.  I  rejoice  my- 
self that  the  Lord  has  blessed  me 
with  a  hopeful  disposition;  rejoice  in 
the  fact  that  it  requires  a  great  deal 
to  discourage  me  in  any  of  the  things 
nf  this  life.  In  the  battle  of  life  I  am 
not  easily  discouraged.  I  believe  in  the 
saying:  "Tf  there  is  ever  a  time  for  a 
man  to  be  ambitious,  it  is  not  when 
ambition  is  easy,  but  when  it  is  hard." 
Then  is  the  time  for  us  to  labor,  and 
m  the  same  sentence  from  which  I  am 
quoting  are  these  words:  "Fight  in 
the  dark;  if  you  are  down,  die  hard 
and  you  will  not  die  at  all." 

I  believe  there  are  many  Latter-day 
Saints  who  in  sickness  give  up;  they 
surrender  to  the  power  of  the  adver- 
sary; and  I  believe  that  there  are 
many  sleeping  in  their  graves  who 
might  have  lived  to  labor  for  the  on- 
ward advancement  of  God's  kingdom, 


if  they  had  been  determined  to  live, 
determined  that  they  would  not  die, 
unless  in  the  providence  of  God  they 
had  finished  their  labor  here  on  the 
earth.  I  believe  there  is  something  in 
the  will  power  that  God  has  given  to 
us.  I  believe  when  we  determine  with- 
in our  hearts  that  by  and  with  the 
blessings  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father 
we  will  accomplish  a  certain  labor,  God 
gives  the  ability  to  accomplish  that 
labor;  but  when  we  lay  down,  when  we 
become  discouraged,  when  we  look  at 
the  top  of  the  mountain  and  say  it  is 
impossible  to  climb  to  the  summit, 
while  we  never  make  an  effort  it  will 
never  be  accomplished. 

Nephi  said  to  his  father  that  he 
would  go  and  do  the  things  which  the 
Lord  commanded,  and  when  his  breth- 
ren failed  to  get  the  plates  and  they 
came  back  discouraged, '  he  was  not 
discouraged,  but  said  unto  his  breth- 
ren: "Let  us  go  up  again  unto  Jerusa- 
lem; let  us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God,  for  the  Lord  is 
mightier  than'  all  the  earth,  then  why 
not  mightier  than  Laban  and  his  fifty, 
yea  or  even  his  tens  of  thousands." 
And  after  they  had  tried  again  and 
were  discouraged,  he  tried  once  more. 
He  said  to  his  brethren:  "As  the  Lord 
lives  and  as  we  live  we  will  not  go 
down  unto  our  father  in  the  wilderness 
until  we  have  accomplished  that  which 
the  Lord  has  commanded  us."  Now 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  should  re- 
member that  Nephi  succeeded;  we 
should  remember  that  in  the  face  of 
obstacles  he  secured  the  plates  con- 
taining the  precious  words  of  God; 
that  he  secured  the  record  which  was 
beyond  price;  that  was  invaluable  to 
his  desceendants,  and  without  which 
it  would  have  been  difficult  for  many 
of  them  to  have  found  the  straight  and 
narrow  path  that  leads  to  life  eternal. 

if  there  is  one  character  more  than 
another  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that 
I  have  admired  and  whose  example  I 
have  felt  to  emulate,  that  character 
has  been  Nephi  of  old;  never  discour- 
aged, never  disheartened,  always  ready, 
always  determined  to  labor  to  the  best 
of  his  ability  for  the  accomplishment 
of  the  purposes  of  God. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
we  should  have  an  ideal  in  life;  that 
we  should  have  an  objcet  we  wish  to 
reach,  and  that  object  should  be  that 
to  the  full  extent  of  our  ability,  to  the 
full  extent  of  the  power  that  God  has 
given  us,  physical,    intellectual,  and 
spiritual,  we  will  accomplish  His  pur- 
poses here  on  the  earth.     We  should 
have  an  ambition  that  no  man  shall 
do  more  for  the  onward  advancement 
of  God's  kingdom  than  we.  As  laborers 
in  the   different  Stakes  of  Zion,  stand- 
ing as  presidents  of  Stakes  or  as  coun- 
selors to  a  president  of  a  Stake,  no  man 
should  allow  any  other  member  of  that 
Stake  to  be  a  more  honest  tithe  payer 
than  he  is.     I  say  no  man  should  pre- 
side over  a  Stake  unless  he  is  absolute- 
ly honest  with  God  in  paying  his  tith- 
ing.    Why?  .   Because  he  cannot  con- 
scientiously urge  upon  other  people  to 
be  strictly  honest.     If  we  have  been 
careless  in  this  particular  in  the  past, 
let  us  be  careless  no  more.     I  say  no 
man  presiding  over  a  Stake  of  Zion  or 
over  a  ward  should  fail    to    pay  his 
tithes,  or  should  fail  to  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.      Why?  Because 
he  is  unable  to  stand  up  before  a  body 
of  people  and    teach    them    by  the 
demonstration  of  the  spirit  of  God  that 
they  ought  to  obey  these  command- 
ments from  the  Lord.    This  is  our  duty 
— to  place  ourselves  in  a  position  where- 
by when  we  stand  up  to  teach  the  peo- 
ple, we  can  teach  them  by  the  inspi- 
ration of  the  spirit  of  God  as  it  shall 
descend  upon  us;  but  if  we  are  not  ob- 
serving the  commandments  of  God,  we 
can  not  with  power,  and  with  force, 
and  with  strength  urge  upon  other  peo- 
ple that  they  obey  the  commandments 
that  we  ourselves  are  failing  to  obey. 

We  have  heard  here  today  from  the 
lips  of  the  President  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Apostles,  that  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church  at  the  death  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  could  not  be  or- 
ganized. Why?  Because  men  hold- 
ing the  Apostleship  were  not  true  to 
their  covenants  to  God.  That  was 
why  they  were  led  away  from  that 
straight  and  narrow  path.  They  failed 
to  follow  their  file  leader  who  stood  at 
the  head  of  the  quorum  of  the  Apostles. 


They  failed  to  follow  that  man  upon 
whom  the  mantle  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  fell. 

There  are  those  that  know  not  God. 
There  are  those  that  think  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  a  mistaken  people,  that 
they  are  deluded  and  that  they  have 
no  faith  in  the  supernatural;  but  I 
say  here  today  that  I  know  the  mantle 
of  Joseph  Smith  fell  upon  the  Prophet 
Brigham  Young.     I  know  it,  and  I  am 
willing  to  meet  the  testimony  that  I 
bear.    How  do  I  know  it?     I   know  it 
because  of  my  mother,  a  more  honest 
woman  than  whom  never  lived,  a  more 
devoted  Latter-day  Saint  can  not  be 
found;    because    she    and    scores  of 
others  have  told  me  that  they  saw  the 
Prophet  Brigham  Young  when  he  spoke 
with  the  voice  of  Joseph  Smith;  when 
he  looked  like  the  prophet  Joseph;  and 
I  know  that  these  people  are  honest; 
and  in  addition  to  this  I  know  by  the 
inspiration  of  God  to  me  that  Brigham 
Young  was  a  Prophet  of  God.     I  know 
that  those  that  lost  the  spirit  of  God, 
that  failed    to    follow    the  Prophet 
Brigham  Young,  have  come  to  naught. 
There  are  none  who  were    led  away 
from  the  Church  but  those  who  failed, 
to    follow    their    file    leader.  Brig- 
ham    Young     was     the     only  file 
leader    that    amounted    to  anything; 
and     the     Church     of     God  under 
the    leadership    of    God,    using  the 
Prophet  Brigham  Young  as  an  instru- 
ment in  His  hands,  has  grown  and  in- 
creased and    spread  abroad    in  the 
land,  and  has  filled  these  mountains. 
We  are  here  today  what  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said  we  should  be,  "a  mighty 
people    in    the    midst  of  the  Rocky 
Mountains."      I  will  read  to  you  the 
exact  language  of  that  prophecy  ut- 
tered by  Joseph  Smith  with  reference 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints    coming  to 
these  mountains.      "I  prophesied  that 
the  Saints  would  continue    to  suffer 
much  affliction,  and  would  be  driven  to 
the  Rocky    Mountains;     many  would 
apostatize;  others  would    be    put  to 
death  by  our  persecutors,  or  lose  their 
lives  in  consequence  of  exposure  and 
disease,  but  more  would  live  to  go  and 
assist  in  making  settlements  and  build- 
ing cities  and  see  the  Saints  become  a 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


37 


mighty  people  in    the  midst  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains."     Now  I  have  read 
this  in  your  hearing,  and  I  desire  par- 
ticularly to  call  the  attention  of  all 
Israel  to  this  prophecy,  and  to  the  fact 
that  it  has  been  fulfilled.     I  have  done 
this  recently  in  several  of  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.     I  have  done  it  because  there 
is  a  question,  and  an  active  labor  now 
being"  carried  out  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  by  what  is  known  as  the 
Reorganized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  as  Brother  Rich- 
ards, I  think  it  was,  said,  there  is  no 
such  .thing,  as  the  Church  was  never 
disorganized.      But  I  desire    to  call 
your  attention  to  this  one  prophecy. 
The  Prophet  of  God  proclaimed  that 
the  Saints  should  be    driven    to  the 
Rocky  Mountains;  that  they  should  be- 
come in  the  Rocky  Mountains  a  great 
and  mighty,  people,  and  we    are  the 
Saints  and  the  "Josephites"  are  not  in 
it.     So,  if  the  prophecy  was  uttered 
by  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  if  it  has  been 
fulfilled,  and  if    we    are    the  Sainlts, 
then  the  Josephites  will  have  to  reject 
the    chief    corner    stone  upon  which 
their    religion     rests,   which    is  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God. 

Now    there    is    another  thing- — the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  proclaimed  that 
the  Saints  should  be  driven  from  city 
to  city,  from  county  to  county,  from 
state  to  state,  and  finally  driven  out 
of  the  confines  of  the  United  States,  all 
of  which  was  fulfilled.      What  else? 
He  said  the  time  would  come  when  not 
only  a  city,  when  not  only  a  county, 
when  not  only  a  state,  would  array  them- 
selves against  this  handful  of  people 
called  Mormons,  but  it  should  come  to 
pass  that  the  whole    United  States 
should  array  themselves  against  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.     Was  this  prophecy  fulfilled? 
Yes,  to  the  very  letter.      Driven  here 
from  our  homes  in  the  states  to  Mexi- 
can soil,   the  United  States  sent  its 
army  against  us,  not  a  state  militia, 
but  the  army  of  the  United  States  of 
America  against  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,   but  not 
against  the    Josephites.      Please  re- 
member     that.        This  remarkable 
prophecy  must  fall  to  the  ground  if  the 


Josephites  are  in  it  to  the  least  bit  of 
a  small  particle  of  a  degree.     But  as 
if  to  doubly  emphasize  the  words  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  the  United  States 
government  confiscated  all  of  the  prop- 
erty, both  real  and  personal,  belonging 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.      They  finally  discovered 
their  mistake  and  gave  it  back  to  us, 
for  which  we  are  truly    grateful,  but 
we  would  like  them  to  give  back  the 
expense  that  it  cost  to  manage  it  while 
they  had  it.     I  have  picked  up  a  news- 
paper and  read  in  bold  headlines,  "The 
United  States  of    America    versus  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,"  and  I    have    laid    down  the 
paper  and  said,  "Thanks  be  to  God  that 
the  United  States  of  America  has  put 
upon  the    prophecies  of    the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  the  stamp  of  divinity." 
And  I  say  once  more,  thanks  be  to  the 
United  States  that  they  have  put  the 
quietus  on  the  claims  of  the  Josephite 
church,  because  the  United  States  have 
never  arrayed  themselves  against  the 
Josephites.      The  Prophet  Joseph  told 
us  that  our  name  should  be  cast  out 
for  evil  all  over  the  world.     Why,  the 
Josephites  are  beloved;    nobody  casts 
their    name    out    as    evil.  Another 
prophecy  that  was  handled  very  nicely 
in  the  Improvement  Era,  and  to  which 
I  am  really  indebted  for  the  idea  com- 
ing into  my  head:  The  assistant  editor 
took  up  the  question  of  an  interview 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  by  the  late 
Stephen  A.  Douglass,  When  this  Steph- 
en A.  Douglass  was  an  obscure  attor- 
ney   he  met  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  they  conversed  about  the  affairs 
of  the  offices  of  the  government,  and 
in  that  interview  Joseph  told  this  ob- 
scure attorney,  "The  day   will  come, 
Mr.  Douglass,  when  you  will  aspire  to 
be  President  of  the  United  States,  and 
I  say  to  you,  if  you  shall  ever  raise 
your  hand  against  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  you  shall 
be  defeated  in  your  ambition,  and  you 
shall    never    reach    the  presidential, 
chair."     Years  rolled  on,  and  this  ob- 
scure man  became  noted  in  Illinois;  he 
became  a  member  of  the  legislature,  he 
entered  the  halls  of  Congress;  and  he 
finally  aspired  to  the  presidential  chair; 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  thinking  that  he  could  gain  some 
slight  political  advantage  by  opposing 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  he  did  it.  The 
"Deseret  Evening  News"  then  took  up 
his  opposition,  quoted  to  him  what  the 
Prophet  of  God  said — that  he  should 
be  defeated,  told  him  that  he  had  sealed 
his  own  doom.  He  was  defeated.  One 
more  nail,  my  friends,  in  the  coffin  of 
our  Josephite  friends;  because  it  was 
not  the  Josephites  that  Stephen  A. 
Douglass  raised  his  voice  against,  but  it 
was  the  Church  of  Christ  that  Joseph 
Smith,  as  the  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God,  had  established  upon  the  earth, 
and  the  keys  which  he  had  bestowed  up- 
on the  ApOstles.  In  opposing  that  work, 
Stephen  A.  Douglass  sealed  his  doom 
when  he  aspired  to  the  presidential 
chair. 

These  things  should  appeal  to  the 
minds  of  all  young  men  and  young 
ladies  of  Israel.  We  should  realize 
that  we  have  the  Church  of  Christ.  We 
should  realize  that  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  of  God  rests  upon  the  men 
that  lead  this  Church.  Why,  you  take 
men  that  come  from  all  over  the  world, 
and  they  are  surprised  at  the  great 
mind,  as  they  term  it,  that  Brigham 
Young  possessed,  at  the  wonderful 
statesman  he  was.  I  recognize  the 
great  mind  of  Brigham  Young;  I  rec- 
ognize the  great  man  that  he  was,  but 
I  say  to  you  that  it  was  God  speaking 
through  and  directing  Brigham  Young 
that  made  him  the  great  man  that  he 
was.  The  servants  of  God  are  the 
most  humble  men  that  I  have  ever 
been  associated  with  in  my  life.  They 
take  no  credit  to  themselves;  they  re- 
alize that  they  are  dependent  upon 
God  alone,  and  that  without  inspiration 
of  His  spirit  they  are  as  naught.  They 
not  only  realize,  but  they  know,  that 
God  lives  and  that  He  directs  them. 
.  Do  I  know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  is  a 
Prophet  of  God?  Yes,  I  do.  Do  I 
know  that  Wilford  Woodruff  was  a 
Prophet  of  God?  Yes,  I  do.  Do  I 
know  that  John  Taylor  and  Brigham 
Young  were  Prophets  of  God?  Yes,  I 
do.  I  know  it  as  well  as  I  know  when 
I  take  hold  of  the  poles  of  an  electric 
battery,  and  they  turn  on  the  current, 
that  I  have  been  shocked.     Do  I  khow 


that  the  gifts  and  graces  of  the  Gospei 
abound  among  the  Latter-day  Saints? 
I  do.  Do  I  stand  here  today  a  living 
monument,  a  living  witness,  that  God 
has  raised  me  from  a  bed  of  affliction, 
where  I  was  given  up  and  told  that  I 
had  to  die?  Yes,  I  do.  Do  I  know 
that  God  gave  me  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  that  I  should  live  and  not 
die?  Yes,  I  do.  I  say  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  I  know  by  the  revela- 
tions of  the  spirit  of  God  to  me  that 
He  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God; 
and  I  pray  God  that  we  may  all  so  live 
that  this  knowledge  may  be  our  guid- 
ing star,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

Promises  of  God— Restoration  of  the  Priesthood- 
Saints  a  pure  people- Consistency  of  prayer- 
Saints  must  be  just— Confidence  in  the  President. 

I  doubt  very  much  if  it  is  possible  for 
us  to  appreciate  the  blessings  that  we 
enjoy  as  a  people.  It  may  be  that  those 
who  have  been  gathered  from  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  appreciate  the  Gos- 
pel, appreciate  the  light  and  truth 
that  is  vouchsafed  unto  us,  individually, 
who  serve  God  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. I  know  that  my  soul  is  filled 
with  thanksgiving  to  Almighty  God  for 
the  privilege  I  have  of  being  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Christ.  Why  it  should 
be  so  persistently  called  the  "Mormon 
Church"  is  a  curiosity.  The  Lord  has 
given  unto  us  a  promise  that  is  very- 
sweet  to  us,  and  that  is,  that  if  we  will 
love  Him  and  keep  His  commandments 
we  shall  prosper  in  the  land.  He  has 
also  given  unto  us  the  hope  of  a  glori- 
ous resurrection.  We  do  not  doubt  the 
resurrection;  we  do  not  doubt  the  abil- 
ity of  God  to  raise  us  from  the  dead,  for 
He  promised  the  house  of  Israel, 
through  Ezekiel,  that  He  would  bring 
them  out  of.  their  graves,  ana  put  them 
in  the  lands  of  their  possessions,  and 
that  they  should  kncnw  that  He  wa» 
God. 

Let  me  refer  you  to  the  revelation 
that  was  given  'concerning  the  using  of 
wine  for  the  Sacrament.  You  will  find 
it  in  the  27th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  says: 


ELDER   GEORGE  TEAS  DALE 


39 


3.  Wherefore  a  commandment  I  give 
unto  you,  that  you  shall  not  purchase 
wine,  neither  strong  drink  of  your  ene- 
mies : 

4.  Wherefore,  you  shall  partake  of 
none,  except  it  is  made  new  among 
you;  yea,  in  my  Father's  kingdom 
which  shall  be  built  upon  the  earth. 

5.  Behold,  this  is  wisdom  in  me; 
wherefore  marvel  not,  for  the  hour 
cometh  that  I  will  drink  of  the  fruit 
of  the  vine  with  you  on  the  earth,  and 
with  Moroni,  whom  I  have  sent  among 
you  to  reveal  the  Book  of  Mormon  con- 
taining the  fulness  of  my  everlasting 
Gosipel",  to  whom  I  have  committed  the 
keys  of  the  record  of  the  stick  of 
Ephraim: 

6.  And  also  with  Ellas,  to  whom  I 
have  committed  the  keys  of  bringing 
to  pass  the  restoration  of  all'  things 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  the  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began,  con- 
cerning the  last  days: 

7.  And  also  John,  the  son  of  Zach- 
arias,  which  Zacharias  he  (Elias)  vis- 
ited and  gave  promise  that  he  should 
have  a  son  and  his  name  should  be 
John,  and  he  should  be  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  Elias; 

8.  Which  John  I  have  sent  unto  you 
my  servants  Joseph  'Smith  Jr.,  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  to  ordain  you  unto 
this  Priesthood,  which  you  have  re- 
ceived that  you  might  be  called  and  or- 
dained even  as  Aaron: 

9.  And  also  Elijah  unto  whom  I  have 
committed  the  keys  of  the  power  of 
turning  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
to  the  fathers,  that  the  whole  earth 
may  not  be  smitten  with  a  curse: 

10.  And  also  with  Joseph  and  Jacob 
and  Isaac,  and  Abraham,  your  fathers', 
by  whom  the  promises  remain; 

11.  And  also  with  Michael,  or  Adam, 
the  father  of  all,  the  prince  of  all,  the 
ancient  of  days. 

12.  And  also  with  Pater,  and  James, 
and  John,  whom  I  have  sent  unto  you, 
by  whom  I  have  ordained  you  and  con- 
firmed you  to  be  Apostles  and  especial 
witnesses  of  my  name,  and  bear  the 
keys  of  your  ministry,  and  of  the  same 
things  which  I  revealed  unto  them: 

13.  Unto  whom  I  have  committed  the 
keys  of  my  kingdom,  and  a  dispensa- 
tion of  the  Oospel  for  the  last  times, 


and  for  the  fulness  of  times  in  the 
which  I  will  gather  together  in  one  all 
things,  both  which  are  in  heaven  and 
which  are  on  earth: 

14.  And  also  with  all  those  whom  my 
Father  hath  given  me  ouit  of  the  world: 

15.  Wherefore,  lift  up  your  hearts  and 
rejoice,  and  gird  up  your  loins,  and  take 
upon  you  my  whole  armor,  that  ye  may 
be  able  to  withstand  the  evil  day,  hav- 
ing done  all  ye  may  be  able  to  stand. 

16.  Stand,  therefore,  having  your 
loins  girt  about  with  truth,  having  on 
the  breastplate  of  righteousness,  and 
your  feet  shod  with  the  preparation  of 
the  Gospel  of  peace  which  I  have  sent 
mine  angels  to  commit  unto  you. 

17.  Taking  the  shield  of  faith,  where- 
with ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the 
fiery  darts  of  the  wicked; 

18.  And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation 
and  the  sword  of  my  spirit  which  I 
will  pour  out  upon  you,  and  my  word 
which  I  reveal  unto  you  and  be  agreed 
as  touching  all  things  whatsoever  ye 
ask  of  me,  and  be  faithful  until  I  come, 
and  ye  shall  be  caught  up,  that  where 
I  am  ye  shall  be  also.  Amen. 

We  have  the  testimony  of  the  Lord 
as  to  His  having  established  HisChurch 
upon  earth,  having  restored  to  the 
earth  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood  and 
Apostleship,  and  given  unto  man  power- 
on  the  earth  to  preach  His  Gospel  and 
to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  His 
house,  and  we  are  His  witnesses.  I  can 
also  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  the 
expression  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  this  morning  with  regard  to  men, 
besides  the  general  authorities,  being 
anxious  concerning  this  work.  I  know 
that  men  are  anxious  concerning  this 
work,  those  that  are  living  their  relig- 
ion, living  the  principles  of  righteous- 
ness. I  know  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
not  guilty  of  whoredoms  and  abomina- 
tions, and  fornications  and  adultery;  it 
would  be  impossible  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  be  guilty  of  anything  of  the  \ 
kind,  for  a  Saint  is  a  man  who  is 
sanctified,  who  has  accepted  the  prin- 
ciples of  redemption,  whom  God  has  re- 
deemed from  death.  A  Saint  is  a  man 
or  a  woman  that  worships  the  living 
and  true  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  who  acknowledges  His  hand  in 
all  things,  who  has  repented  of  sins 
and  gone  forth  into  the  waters  of  bap- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tism  and  been  immersed  in  the  likeness 
of  the  burial  of  Christ  and  His  resur- 
rection, and  who  has  received  the  effi- 
cacy of  the  precious  blood  of  Christ, 
and  who  has  received  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  who  has  the  fellow- 
ship of  the  Holy  Ghost.    Well,  now  it 
would    be    impossible    for  them  to  be 
adulterers,  fornicators— just  impossible. 
I   want    you  to  distinctly  understand 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  is  like  a  man 
that    went    and  sowed  wheat  and  his 
enemy  came  and  sowed  tares,  >and  we 
have  the  wheat  and  tares  growing  up 
with  the  wheat,  and  the  wheat  gets  the 
character  of  the  tares;  but  it  is  not  so; 
it  is  the  pure  in  heart  that  love  God;  it 
is  the  pure  in  heart  that  love  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel;  it  is  the  pure  in 
heart  that  are  faithful  in  the  testimony 
of  Jesus,  and  in  the  saying  and  doing 
of  His  will  and  the  keeping  of  His  com- 
mandments;   they   love  righteousness 
and  hate  iniquity;  and  every  man  that 
hath  the  hope  of  a  glorious  resurrec- 
tion,   that    hath  the  hope  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  that  hath  the  hope  of  His 
kingdom    to    come,    purifieth  himself, 
even  as  God  is  pure;  and  they  seek  to 
become  perfect;  they  strive  to  be  hon- 
est and  upright  and  full    of  integrity; 
they  strive  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  God  for  their  own  dear  sakes  in  or- 
der that  they  may  please  God  .  If  they 
do  not  do  that,  what  (worth  are  they? 
The  ancient  prophets  were  anxious  that 
they    should    get    this  testimony  that 
they  pleased  God.    My  anxiety  is  com- 
mon with  the  Latter-day  Saints;  we 
are  in  our  humble  way  striving  to  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments,  l 
came  out  of  the  world  for  this,  That  is 
why,    perchance,    I   appreciate    it  so 
much,  to  think  that  my  Father  should 
draw  me  into  His  fold;  that  He  should 
give  me  the  privilege  of  the  schooling 
and   experience   that  I  have  had  since 
the  year  1852. 
i      "We  had  a  powerful  testimony  at  the 
organization    of    the  Presidency.  We 
did   not   meet  together  with  any  such 
f  eeling  or  idea  in  our  hearts,  that  the 
Presidency    should    then  be  organized, 
but  our  Father  in  heaven  by  the  power 
of  His  Spirit  demonstrated  unto  us  in- 
dividually   that   it   was   His  will;  we 
knew  it;  we  had  the  testimony.  When 
I    embraced    this     Gospel  President 


Young  was  presiding,  and  I  have  had 
my  experience  under  Brigham  Young, 
John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodrvff,  and 
Lorenzo  Snow.  I  know  that  tnese  men 
are  men  of  God.  I  know  that  they  were 
pure  in  heart,  and  that  they  are  pure 
in  heart.  I  know  that  their  disposition 
is  the  love  of  righteousness.  They  have 
endeavored,  like  the  rest  of  us,  to 
glorify  God  in  their  good  works,  and  to 
seek  to  establish  His  righteousness. 
That  is  what  we  are  striving  in  our 
humble  way  to  do. 

I  know  that  the  Lord  hears  and  an- 
swers prayers.  I  know  the  infidels  ridi- 
cule the  idea  of  prayer— the  idea  of  ask- 
ing a  blessing  on  the  food.  I  think  it  is 
very  consistent  for  the  man  that  rever- 
ences God  and  acknowledges  His  hano: 
in  all  things,  who  realizes  that  the  Lord 
provides,  and  who  understands  this  in 
his  experience,  to  say:  "Our  Father, 
which  art  in  heaven  we  thank  Thee  for 
this  food,  and  pray  Thee  to  bless  it  to 
the  healing  and  nourishing  of  our 
bodies,  and  let  Thy  Spirit  be  in  our 
hearts,  and  guide  and  direct  us  as  Thy 
children,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen." 
What  is  there  curious  about  that?  Is  it 
curious  that  a  man  should  have  that 
faith  and  confidence  in  God?  And  then 
knowing  his  own  weaknesses  and  his 
own  inability,  that  he  should  plead  be- 
fore the  Lord  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  the  fellowship  of  His  Spirit, 
for  His  protecting  care,  for  His  divine 
light,  and  more,  for  the  testimony  that 
we  know  that  God  lives,  and  that  we 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that  He 
has  established  His  Churcn  on  the 
earth;  that  we  have  been  the  happy  re- 
cipients '  of  its  blessings?  "I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  for  it 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  for 
herein  is  the  righteousness  of  God  re- 
vealed from  faith  to  faith."  There  is  no 
happiness  in  this  world  that  is  superior 
to  the  happiness  of  the  man  or  woman 
that  loves  God  and  keeps  His  com- 
mandments. 

And  again,  we  ought  to  be  just;  we 
want  to  have  a  part  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  just.  There  are  two  resur- 
rections, the  resurrection  of  the  just 
and  the  resurrection  of  the  unjust,  and 
individually  we  will  have  a  part  in  one 
of  these  resurrections.  Now  we  want 
to  be  just  for  our  own  sakes;  we  want 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEAS  DALE. 


41 


to  be  honest,  to  be  upright  and  to  pay 
our  just  debts,  so  that  we  may  owe 
no  man  anything.  We  want  to  be 
just  in  all  of  our  actions  to  all  men  and 
to  treat  all  men  right  whether  they  see 
as  we  do  or  not — it  does  not  make  any 
difference,  they  are  our  brethren.  There 
was  a  time  when  we  did  not  see,  nor 
understand,  and  we  don't  know  what 
may  be  in  the  future  for  them.  Paul 
was  a  persecutor  of  the  Saints,  and  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  called  unto  Him, 
"Why  persecutest  thou  me?"  Perse- 
cuting the  Lord  Jeans?  Why,  yes,  when 
they  persecute  the  Latter-day  Saints 
they  persecute  the  Lord  Jesus,  for  we 
are  His.  We  do  not  represent  our- 
selves, we  represent  Him.  We  plead 
with  the  people  in  Christ's  stead  to  bo 
fully  reconciled  to  God.  These  are  our 
pleadings  all  the  time. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  of 
bearing  my  testimony  at  this  Confer- 
ence; and  when  we  say  I  know  that 
this  work  is  of  the  Lord,  we  mean,  I 
know  that  God  has  established  His 
Church  upon  the  earth  with  Apostles, 
and  Prophets,  and  Evangelists,  and 
Teachers,  and  Pastors,  and  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry  and  for  the  edi- 
fying of  the  body  of  Christ.  I  know 
it.  I  knew  it  a  good  many  years  ago, 
and  I  have  a  living  testimony  of  this 
lact,  and  so  have  you,  so  have  you  my 
beloved  brethren  and  sisters.  I  walked 
down  with  a  young  man  on  the  side- 
walk, and  in  conversing  with  him  com- 
ing to  meeting,  his  testimony  and  con- 
versation carried  me  back  to  the  time 
when  I  was  of  his  age— just  as  devoted 
as  I  knew  how  to  be;  fond  of  being 
in  the  Sunday  school;  fond  of  being  in 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment assoailaitiioins,  and  I'm  the  quorums 
of  'the  Priesthood;  und  of  being  faithful 
in  tithes  and  offerings,  and  in  sustain- 
ing the  Priesthood;  striving  to  iteep 
clean  from  the  blood  and  sins  of  this 
generation;  and  this  reminded  me  of 
the  testimony  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  He  remembers  that  when  he 
held  no  authority  in  this    Church  he 


was  just  as  devoted  to  the  cause  of 
truth  as  he  knew  how  to  be.  It  seems 
that  it  is  natural  for  some  men  to  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments; 
they  have  that  disposition,  and  they 
love  righteousness.  I  say  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  a  righteous  peo- 
ple. This  is  my  testimony.  I  am 
laboring  with  them  all  the  time  and 
have  been  for  a  number  of  years,  as  I 
have  said,  and  for  most  of  the  time 
have  been  more  or  less  engaged  in  the 
ministry.  I  feel  thankful  to  God  my 
eternal  Father  beyond  expression  for 
the  testimony  that  He  has  given  to  me, 
for  the  schooling  and  experience  vou- 
chsafed unto  me,  and  I  pray  God  that 
His  blessings  may  be  continued  unto 
those  holding  His  authority. 

I  have  all  the  confidence  in  the  world 
in  President  Lorenzo  Snow.  Why? 
Simply  because  for  a  number  of  years 
I  have  been  under  his  schooling  in  con- 
nection with  my  brethren  of  the 
Twelve.  We  know  his  worth;  we 
know  that  it  has  been  a  great  benefit 
and  blessing  unto  us;  we  know  it  in 
our  experience,  and  our  hearts  go  out 
to  him  with  all  the  affection  possible, 
for  "we  know  that  we  have  passed 
from  death  unto  life,  because  we  love 
the  brethren;"  we  do,  and  we  sustain 
them  by  our  faith  and  prayers  because 
we  love  them. 

My  beloved  fellow-laborers,  God  bless 
you,  and  give  us  faith  and  power  that 
we  may  be  true  in  our  integrity,  that 
we  may  never  flinch,  that  we  may  be 
enabled  to  remain  and  endure  to  the 
end,  that  when  we  have  flniished  our 
probation  on  earth,  we  may  enter  into 
that  glorious  rest  that  is  promised  un- 
to all  those  that  love  God  and  keep 
His  commandments,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,    nor    toll  nor 
labor  fear. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  E. 
Taylor. 

Conference  adjourned  till  Sunday 
morning,  Oct.  9th,  at  10  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday  Morning,  Oct.  9,  10  a.  m. 
The  Hunting-ton  choir,  led  by  Thomas 
Hardie,  sang    the    hymn    which  be- 
gins: 

Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn, 

And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning, 
That  the  day  is  hasting  on. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Matthias  F.  Cow- 
ley. 

The  same  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Cry  out  and  shout. 

BXiDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Benefits  of  Conference — Instruction  of  the  youth — 
Family  Influence— Force  of  example— Testimony 
to  the  Gospel. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  en- 
joyed the  opportunity  of  meeting  with 
you  in  this  Conference  and  in  seeing 
the  spirit  that  is  manifest  on  the  part 
of  the  Saints  from  all  parts  of  the  coun- 
try where  they  are  located,  in  striving 
to  be  represented  here  upon  this  occa- 
sion. Gatherings  such  as  we  have  twice 
a  year,  bringing  us  from  all  parts  of 
the  land,  enable  us  to  renew  our  old 
acquaintanceship,  and  form  new  friend- 
ships, look  into  each  other's  faces,  and 
drink  in  of  the  spirit  that  pervades 
each  district  of  country  from  which  we 
come.  If  we  utilize  properly  the  talents 
that  our  Father  in  heaven  has  given 
us,  all  on  their  return  to  their  homes 
and  neighborhoods  will  carry  with 
them  a  spirit  of  improvement,  and  a 
determination,  so  far  as  practicable, 
to  awaken  in  their  district  the  deter- 
mination to  more  fully  meet  the  obliga- 
tions and  requirements  of  the  faith 
that  we  have  espoused. 

We  can  only  judge  fairly  by  compari- 
son; and  by  these  associations  that  are 
offered  us  the  opportunity  for  that  com- 
parison is  opened  up  unto  us — gathering 
new  thoughts  and  ideas,  and  comparing 
conditions  as  they  exist  with  ourselves, 
and  as  they  exist,  and  are  seen  and  felt 
in  the  companionship  and  spirit  of 
other  sections'  of  our  country.  We  can 
go  forth  renewed  in  spirit,  aroused  in 
our  determination  to  see  that  the  sec- 


tions from  which  we  come  are  fully  up 
to  the  standard,  as  presented  in  other 
sections  of  the  country,  and  in  the  ex- 
pression of  sentiment  given  to  us  as  we 
shall  meet  former  acquaintances,  and 
of  the  hopes  and  fears  'that  we  our- 
selves entertain,  and  that  are  manifest 
in  the  expressions  of  others  whom  we 
love  and  with  whom  we  probably  min- 
gled in  former  days. 

The  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
we  are  informed  by  the  sacred  scrip- 
tures, is  "the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion." There  are  none  of  us  that  can 
question  this  statement  made  in  former 
times,  who  have  received  the  impress 
of  that  spirit  upon  which  some  of  the 
brethren  have  spoken  during  the  former 
sessions  of  this  conference.  It,  without 
doubt,  meant  fully  the  adoption  of 
rules,  the  acceptance  of  principles,  the 
establishment  of  a  standard,  that 
should  guide  and  govern  our  lives,  or 
the  lives  of  former  day  Saints  while 
they  were  sojourning  upon  the  earth, 
and  that  preparation  necessary  to  pre- 
pare us  for  the  conditions  that  exist  be- 
yond the  veil.  Therefore,  when  we  con- 
sider the  basis  of  the  f  aith  that  we  have 
espoused,  and  that  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  indeed  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  each  one  of  us 
can  look  into  our  oiwn  souls;  we  know 
the  temptations  and  trials  and  beset- 
ments  of  our  own  lives;  we  have  a  full 
understanding  of  our  own  weaknesses! 
and  under  that  faith  which  the  Lord 
has  given  us  in  the  acceptance  of  His 
holy  Gospel,  we  start  in  to  so  fully  and 
thoroughly  educate  ourselves  in  the  un- 
derstanding of  the  same,  that  when- 
ever we  comply  with  each  condition, 
fulfill  each  and  every  obligation,  there 
is  registered  in  our  own  souls,  by  the 
spirit  of  our  Father  the  word  of  ap- 
proval; and  'whenever,  perchance,  in 
the  performance  of  our  part,  and  the 
discharge  of  the  various  duties  and  ob- 
ligations 'that  rest  upon  us,  we  fall  be- 
low the  fulfillment  of  the  sacred  duties 
that  we  have  promised  to  obey,  there 
is  within  us  the  feeling  of  dissatisfac- 
tion, of  uncertainty,  and  of  doubt. 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


43 


Therefore,    my    brothers  and  sisters, 
those  'that  have  received  of  the  impress 
of  the   heavenly   gift,  who  have  been 
partakers  of  that  Gospel  which  is  to  be 
the   power    of    God  unto  salvation  to 
every  one  that  shall  obey  and  fulfill  its 
requirements,  the  opportunities  present- 
ed in  our  gathering-  together  upon  these 
occasions,  in  marking  the  way  of  oui 
advancement  by  comparison  with  oth- 
ers, actuated  by  like  hope,  established 
in  like  determination,  and  pressing  for- 
ward  to    the    accomplishment    of  the 
same  purposes.renew  within  us  that  de- 
termination, and  increase  the  spirit  and 
feeling  to  do  and  be  indeed  the  children 
of  the  Father  who  sent  us  here.  There 
is  but  little  doubt  that  there  are  many 
people  who,  standing  in  our  organiza- 
tion  as    members    of    the    Church  of 
Christ,  are  not  fully  converted  to  our 
principles;  there  are  quite  a  number,  as 
all  of  us  know  who  are  conversant  with 
the  actual  conditions  that  exist  among 
the  people  everywhere,  who  are  in  that 
frame  of  mind  that  they  have  accepted 
of  the  faith,  because  their  parents  ac- 
cepted  it.     There   are  some  who  have 
been  impressed  with  the  idea  that  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day    Saints    conform  to  the 
doctrines  of  the  Scripture,  and  conform- 
ing to  them, they  acepted  of  them  upon 
this  basis,  without  the  particular  ef- 
fort, or  necessary  effort  to  secure  foi 
themselves  'the  witness  of  the  spirit  of 
that  Gospel.    They   rejoice  in  the  evi- 
dences that  are  manifest  upon  some 
occasions    in    discussions    or  debates 
wherein  the  Scriptures  are  utilized  as 
an  argument  in  connection  with  our  fel- 
low men   to  the  destruction  and  over- 
throw of  views  that  they  may  have  en- 
tertained; but  there  are  those  who  re- 
ceive from  the  divine  source  the  wit- 
ness of  that  spirit  which  brings  convic- 
tion to  every  fibre  of  the  human  being; 
that  writes  upon  the  heart;  that  fixea 
'itself  upon  the  brain;  that  establishes 
itself  in  such  a  form  that  no  matter 
what    the  circumstances  or  conditions 
are  in  life  it  is  written  there  not  to  be 
effaced;  and  no  matter  where  the  indi- 
viduals might  be,  or  what  the  circum- 
stances were,  their  witness  for  the  truth 
would  be  given  in  humility  relying  upon 
the  mercies  and  goodness  of  their  Heav- 
enly Father. 


We  are  acquitting  ourselves  as  a  peo- 
ple very  nobly  in  the  efforts  that  we  are 
making  in  scattering  the  seeds  of  the 
Gospel  among  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
Our  brothers,  our  fathers,  our  sons,  are 
performing  their  duties  in  this  respect 
.with  heroic  courage  and  fortitude;  -but 
when    we    look  into  the  internal  con- 
cerns of  our  country  and  s>tate  and  see 
the  needs  and  necessities  of  hosts  of  oui 
young  men  especially  (when  I  use  the 
word  hosts,  I  use  it  in  the  sense  that 
there    are    many)  who  are  moral,  up- 
right, earnest,  and  devoted,  so  far  as 
that  is  concerned  to  the  regular  duties 
and  responsibilities  of  life,  but  whose 
minds  have  net  been  touched  with  the 
sacred  fire,  whose  hearts  have  gone  out 
in  the  various  directions  in  the  accom- 
plishment of  their  walks  in  life,  so  far 
as  the  temporal  duties  of  life  are  con- 
cerned, and  who  have  been  led  to  think 
perchance  father  and  mother,  carried 
away  in  their  enthusiasm  for  the  faith 
that  they  have  espoused,  are  not  alto- 
gether  in    that    condition  or  frame  of 
mind    that    would    impress  them  with 
that  which  seems  so  dear  to  father  and 
mother,    we    realize   that  every  effort 
made  in  the  direction  of  the  improve- 
ment and  establishment  in  their  minds 
of  a  proper  understanding  of  the  Gos- 
pel is  a  duty  we  owe  to  them.   I  realize 
that  in  our  anxiety  sometimes  as  par- 
ents in  these  matters,  the  constant  fol- 
lowing of  our  sons,  the  constant  effort 
to  impress  them  with  the  same  relig- 
ious fire  that  has  been  aroused  in  our 
breasts,  may  in  some  instances  be  over- 
done, as  remarked  to  me  upon  one  oc- 
casion by  an  eminent  man  in  our  na- 
tion who  classes  himself  as  an  infidel. 
"I  became  infidel,"  he  remarked,  "to  the 
faith  of  my  fathers  for  the  reason  of 
the    strict    anxiety    upon    the  part  gf 
father  and  mother  to  impress  me  with 
their  faith."    While  this  should  not  be 
an  excuse  on  the  part  of  men  for  dis- 
regarding the  wishes  of  moral  fathers 
and  mothers,    who    sought  to  impress 
upon    the    minds  of  their  children  the 
sacred  obligation  they  owed  to  their 
Father  in  heaven,  there  may  be  in  some 
few  instances  cause  for  complaint  on 
the    part    of    thoughtless     boys  and 
thoughtless    girls    in    connection  with 
this  matter.    It  seems  to  me  that  the 
proper  application  of  our  home  govern- 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men!,  the  seeking  to  secure  the  aid  and 
assistance  of  the  boys  and  the  girls  in 
the  discharge  of  the  duties  of  that 
home,  in  their  taking  part  in  family 
prayer,  in  their  assisting  in  the  saying 
of  grace  at  the  table,  in  their  being 
kindly  and  gently  pled  with,  in  striv-. 
ing  to  awaken  in  their  minds  that  sa- 
cred reverence  or  love  for  the  Supreme 
Being,  would  bridge  most  of  the 
chasms  that  are  found  in  the  way  ot 
the  development  of  legitimate  and 
proper  faith  in  the  minds  of  some  of 
the  thoughtless  ones. 

I  am  a  believer  in  the  thought  that 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  not  recreant  to  their 
faith,  or  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers. 
I  recognize  the  fact  in  my  own  experi- 
ence, as  I  note  the  conditions  that  arise 
in  many  lives,  that  while  there  is  a 
thoughtless  period  that  attends  every 
boy  and  every  girl,  when  'they  pass  a 
certain  stage  in  their  history,  their 
hearts  turn  to  their  home  and  to  the 
influences  of  that  home,  and  to  the 
efforts  that  were  made  to  impress  them 
in  that  home  with  a  sacred  regard  for 
the  name  of  their  Heavenly  Father,  and 
for  the  sacred  laws  that  He  has  given. 
And  inasmuch  as  we  fulfill  the  require- 
ments placed  upon  us  to  teach  our  sons 
and  daughters  the  principles  of  that 
Gospel,  that  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion; have  sought  to  establish  within 
them  honesty;  have  sought  to  fix  upon 
their  minds  that  justice  and  mercy 
and  propriety  and  wisdom  should  gov- 
ern them  as  the  seeds  are  sown;  as 
their  minds  are  guarded;  as  their 
hearts  are  cultivated;  as  they  are  up- 
lifted in  their  being  by  the  upright- 
ness and  consistency  and  prudence  of 
the  examples  of  their  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, one  by  one  they  will  find  them- 
selves taking  their  place  in  the  ranks 
of  that  religion  that  God  has  called  to 
aid  in  carrying  forth  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel  which  He  has  given  to  us  in  our 
day. 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters  that 
you  will  consider  these  matters;  that 
there  shall  be  adopted  in  the  regula- 
tions of  every  home  that  wisdom  and 
prudence  that  should  characterize  the 
Bishop  of  a  ward,  the  Teachers  of 
blocks,  the  High  Priests,  Seventies  and 
Elders,  and  all  that  class  of  men  who 


have  been  made  partakers  of  the  heav- 
enly gift,  that  the  spirit  of  truth, 
striking  our  own  souls  and  vibrating 
therein,  shall  make  its  way  among  the 
children  of  men;  that  all  who  may  en- 
ter our  home  circle  or  our  neighbor- 
hood circle,  shall  feel  and  see  that  our 
hearts  are  in  attune  to  the  principles  of 
right,  mercy,  and  justice  and  the  prin- 
ciples of  propriety  in  everything  that 
tends  to  turn  and  make  man  and  wo* 
man  more  noble  and  true. 

In  connection  with  my  brethren,  I 
desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
truth  Of  the  Gospel,  and  the  sacredness 
of  that  mission  given  of  God  in  the  in- 
troduction of  this  work,  and  to  the  up- 
rightness and  honesty  and  determina- 
tion that  exist  on  the  part  of  those  you 
have  sustained  as  guides  in  connection 
with  this  work,  and  to  the  spirit  of  love 
engendered  in  their  breasts  for  the 
work  of  God  and  the  extension  of  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  on  the  lines  of 
justice  and  right  so  far  as  it  is  possible 
for  man  with  his  weaknesses  to  walk 
in  harmony  with  the  wishes  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  I  bear  you  my  wit- 
ness that  this  is  indeed  the  Gospel  of 
Christ;  that  it  will  be  indeed  a  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  man  and 
every  woman  that  shall  adopt  its  rules 
and  walk  in  the  way  marked  out  by 
the  revealed  will  of  our  Father  in  the 
day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  That 
God  may  bless  you  all,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  F.   M.  LTMAN. 

Organization  of  the  Church  in  harmony  with  the 
will  of  God— Man  is  that  he  might  be  saved- 
Favorable  time?  for  the  Saints— Man's  obligations 
to  his  Maker  first — Young  people  should  marry— 
Time  snould  be  economized  for  righteousness. 

It  affords  me  much  pleasure,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  meet  with  you 
on  this  important  occasion — the  day  on 
Which  is  to  be  'consummated  the  begin- 
ning of  a  new  administration  in  the 
Church  under  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
and  his  brethren.  This  great  body  of 
people  gathered  from  all  directions  give 
evidence  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
still  alive  in  the  earth;  that  this  Church 
is  growing,  gaining  strength  and  poweii 
spreading  .abroad  in  the  earth,  'accom- 
plishing the  design    of   our  Heavenly 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


Father.  Our  children  and  those  whp 
are  brought  into  the  Church,  from 
abroad  add  strength  to  this  great  work, 
and  the  Lord  will  fulfill  His  purposes. 
His  favor  and  blessing  are  over  the  peo- 
ple, and  they  are  being  established;  the 
stakes  of  Zion  are  increasing,  the  wards, 
the  quorums,  the  associations  and  the 
missions  are  increasing  in  the  earth, 
and  we  are  the  witnesses  that  the  gifts 
and  graces  of  theGospel  attend  upon  the 
ministry  of  the  Lord's  servants.  The 
will  of  the  Lord  is  made  known  to  the 
people,  and  they  are  not  long  left  in 
doubt,  or  to  wonder  or  surmise;  for  we 
have  attained  that  degree  of  humility, 
union  and  faith  that  insures  to  all  Israel 
the  mind  of  the  Lord  in  regard  to  His 
purposes.  It  is  manifest  in  our  present 
experience  how  readily  all  Israel  has  dis- 
covered and  learned  from  the  Lord  His 
mind  in  regard  to  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  and  the  steps  that  are  neces- 
sary to  be  taken  in  order  that  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  may  be  com- 
plete and  perfect;  for  as  long  as  the 
Church  is  under  the  necessity  of  mov- 
ing without  the  chief  presiding  quorum 
—the  three  High  Priests  designated  by 
the  Father  and  sustained  by  the  peo- 
ple— the  organization  is  not  complete.; 
and  in  order  that  the  Church  may  have 
all  the  blessings  ,the  gifts  and  graces, 
the  inspiration  and  favor  of  God,  it  is 
quite  desirable  that  every  department 
of  this  Church  should  be  in  complete 
organization.  I  say  that  in  this  move- 
ment that  we  have  witnessed,  and  that 
we  witness  today,  is  an  evidence  that 
the  Church  is  advancing,  that  the  peo- 
ple are  becoming  schooled  and  better 
tried  and  proven  in  the  doctrines  and 
discipline  of  the  Church..  The  Lord  has 
spoken  to  His  Prophets  and  Apostles, 
and  has  announced  His  will;  and  today 
the  world  shall  see  that  Israel  is  a 
united  people,  that  they  see  eye  to  eye, 
and  in  your  hearts,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  well  as  in  ours,  shall  be 
the  evidence,  positive  and  unquestion- 
able, that  the  mind  and  will  of  God 
has  been  spoken  from  the  heavens.  Let 
every  Latter-day  Saint  in  hie  and  her 
own  heart  ask  the  Father  that  he  or 
she  may  really  feel  and  know,  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  the 
organization  of  this  Church  is  in  har- 
mony with  the  mind  and  will    of  the 


45 

Father;  and  those  who>  thus  seek  the 
will  of  God  shall  know  it  in  their  hearts 
and  souls. 

The  work  is  advancing;  it  is  growing 
apace  and  spreading  quietly  in  the 
earth;  the  Gospel  is  being  preachod; 
the  people  gathered  and  established; 
the  resources  and  facilities  of  Zion  are 
developing  on  every  hand,  and  we  are 
becoming  a  very  remarkable  people. 
The  Lord  will  magnify  and  sustain 
His  people;  He  will  correct  them,  re- 
prove them,  restrain  them,  and  inspire 
them.  He  will  inspire  every  man  who 
bears  responsibility  in  this  Church. 
Every  man  presiding  in  missions  abroad 
every  man  laboring  abroad  and  lift- 
ing his  voice  to  the  world,  calling  upon 
all  men  to  repent  and-  turn  unto  the 
Lord,  will  be  sustained  by  the  power  of 
God;  and  those  who  preside  at  home, 
in  the  organizations  of  Priesthood,  in 
the  stakes,  in  the  wards,  in  the  associ- 
ations and  organizations  of  our  bretn- 
ren  and  sisters,  will  all  be  blessed  and 
sustained.  We  will  learn  valuable  les- 
sons at  times,  no  doubt,  by  the  things 
we  suffer,  and  sometimes  possibly  by 
the  mistakes  we  make.  But  the  Lord 
knows  our  hearts,  our  conduct,  and  our 
thoughts,  and  He  will  purge  us  *aid 
prove  us,  and  will  save  us  to  the  utter- 
most, if  We  will  but  be  saved.  It  is  the 
design  of  the  Father  that  all  His  chil- 
dren should  be  Saved.  Men  were  not 
created  to  be  damned;  but  they  were 
created  to  be  saved.  Men  have  come 
to  the  earth  and  obtained  their  bodies 
that  they  might  be  saved,  that  they 
may  be  enlarged  and  developed,  and 
that  they  m'ay  walk  in  the  footsteps  of 
our  Elder  Brother,  Jesus,  to  salvation. 
In  Him  we  should  discover  the  very  ex- 
ample of  purity,  of  humility  and  of 
obedience  to  God  that  should  be  fol- 
lowed by  each  of  us.  It  will  be  neces- 
sary, if  we  would  be  the  heirs  of  God 
and  joint  heirs  with  the  Son,  rhlat  as  He 
had  but  the  will  of  God,  so  must  we 
also  have  the  will  of  God.  Our  wills 
must  be  subject  to  the  will  of  the 
Father;  that  What  the  Father  wills  in 
regard  to  us,  We  should  will — it  Should 
be  our  will;  for  He  only  wills  good  to 
us,  lif  e,  prosperity,  peace  and  salvation, 
in  time  and  in  eternity.  We  can  well 
afford  to  exchange  our  wills  for  the  will 
of  God — or,  rather,  that  our  wills  should 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  as  the  will  of  God;  that  we  should 
adopt  the  will  of  God  as  our  will.  '"Not 
my  will,  Father,  but  thine  be  done." 
For  the  will  of  God  is  superior  xo  our 
will.  He  knows  what  will  be  good  for 
us;  He  knows  what  is  good  for  us.  He 
knows  what  will  preserve  us  and  will 
save  us  from  the  power  of  Satan,  from 
the  grasp  of  that  personage  who  would 
drag  us  down  into  the  same  condition 
that  he  is  in.  The  Lord  knows  exactly 
what  is  best  for  us;  and  what  our  Elder 
Brother  has  accomplished  and  attained 
to — we  also  are  the  sons  of  God,  the 
junior  brethren  and  the  sisters  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  He  designs  that 
we  should  come  up  as  He  came  up,  and 
accomplish  what  He  has  accomplished, 
and  be  worthy  of  the  favor  .and  blessing 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  time  and  in 
eternity,  and  this  can  only  be  obtained 
by  serving  the  Lord,  as  He  serves  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

Then,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
very  important  that  we  should  learn  to 
live  unitedly,  to  be  humble,  to  be  faith- 
ful in  the  discharge  of  the  duties  that 
devolve  upon  us,  and  to  fulfill  the  re- 
quirements of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
Now  we  are  entering  upon  times  and 
conditions  that  are  to  be  favorable  to 
the  Church,  and  favorable  to  everybody 
else.  Good  times  are  coming  upon  the 
people — prosperous  times.  As  we  have 
been  so.  abundantly  blessed  this  year, 
so  may  we  be  blessed  the  coming  year, 
and  so  on  for  the  future.  And  when 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  are  so  abund- 
antly bestowed  upon  us,  we  ought  to 
make  good  use  of  them.  We  ought  to 
listen  to  the  counsel  of  wisdom,  and  to 
profit  by  our  past  experience,  to  refrain 
from  contracting  obligations  that  we 
are  unable  to  meet.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  should  begin  now,  if  they  have 
not  already,  to  meet  all  their  obliga- 
tions. I  believe  with  the  favorable  con- 
ditions that  are  opening  up  to  us  and 
to  the  people  of  the  world,  that  we 
ought  to  learn  to  meet  our  obligations; 
free  ourselves  from  mortgages  entirely. 
The  Lord  will  open  the  way  if  we  will 
make  good  use  of  the  blessings  that  He 
has  bestowed  upon  us,  that  we  may 
meet  all  our  obligations..  But  remem- 
ber the  Lord  first!  I  am  frequently  ap- 
proached by  brethren  to  know  what 
they  shall  do.    "If  I  pay  my  tithing,  I 


have  other  obligations  and  embarrass- 
ments that  weigh  me  down.  Shall  I, 
under  these  circumstances,  pay  my  ob- 
ligations to  the  Lord?"  I  say,  Yes. 
First  of  all  a  man  should  meet  his  ob- 
ligations to  his  Maker  -He  who  has 
furnished  us  the  earth  upon  which  we 
live,  .and  all  the  wealth  thereof.  We 
ought  to  remember  our  obligations  to 
Him;  for  we  are  in  this  work  for  eternal 
salvation  and  exaltation,  eternal  life, 
and  to  become  the  heirs  of  God,  through 
our  faithfulness,  that  whatever  of 
wealth  the  Lord  possesses  we  shall  be 
His  heirs,  and  joint  heirs  with  the  Son, 
Who  has  received  from  the  Father  all 
things  and  all  power  in  heaven  and  on 
earth.  If  we  would  be  sharers  in  this, 
we  must  remember  first  our  obligations 
to  the  Lord;  for  they  are  older  than  the 
obligations  to  any  man.  Pay  the  obli- 
gations in  the  order  of  their  seniority 
—as  they  are  due.  First  meet  all  our 
obligations  to  the  Lord  properly,  and 
then  tell  the  Father  that  we  want  to 
be  conscientious  and  honest  with  every- 
body else— with  our  brothers  and  our 
sisters  as  we  are  with  Him,  Now  is  the 
time  that  we  manifest  our  faith  in  the 
Lord,  and  prove  Him;  and  I  want  to 
bear  record  that  no  man  has  ever  failed 
to.  find  the  promises  of  the  Lord  relia- 
ble. No  man  has  ever  paid  his  tithing 
properly  but  what  has  been  abundantly 
blessed.  I  want  to  say,  too,  that  no 
man  has  ever  paid  his  just  obligation* 
to  his  brother  but  what  he  has  been 
abundantly  blessed.  There  is  a  compen- 
sation that  always  comes  in  answer  io 
the  performance  of  every  right  and 
proper  duty  between  man  and  his 
Maker,  between  man  and  his  brother; 
for  I  say  that  a  man  will  not  be  honest 
with  his  Maker  if  he  be  not  honest  with 
his  brother.  Be  honest  with  the  Lord 
and  then  honest  with  the  brethren. 
Be  honest  with  the  world,  and  con- 
scientious with  them  in  all  our 
obligations  and  covenants;  for  they  are 
our  brethren— unbaptized,  so  far  as  that 
is  concerned,  but  they  are  our  brethren, 
the  sons  and  the  daughters  of  God,  and 
our  conduct,  our  dealings,  contracts  and 
business  obligations  with  them  should 
be  most  conscientious,  honest  and  up- 
right. If  so,  then  they  will  see  that  we 
are  conscientious  and  honest  in  our 
dealings  with  our  father  in  heaven.  They 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M  LVMAA 


47 


will  have  confidence  in  us,  and  will  be- 
lieve our  professions.  Then,  I  say, 
brethren  and  sisters,  remember  the 
Lord  in  these  time's.  Let  us  go  forward 
and  discharge  the  duties  tha't  devolve 
upon  us.  It  is  a  splendid  time  now  to 
pay  our  debts. 

It  is  a  splendid  time  now,  also,  for 
the  young  people  to  enter  into  marriage. 
Young  men  and  young  women  who  are 
twenty  years  of  age  and  upwards 
should  see  to  it.  Parents:  'should  advise 
and  counsel  with  them,  that  they  should 
enter  into  marriage.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  a  people  that  believe  in  the 
principle  of  marriage.  They  believe  it 
is  one  of  the  most  sacred  command- 
ments and  requirementsi  of  the  Lord 
that  men  and  women  should  marry,  and 
should  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth, 
and  fill  it  with  the  son's  and  daughters 
of  God,  training  and  leading  them  in 
the  ways  of  righteousness  by  their  ex- 
ample and  by  their  instructions.  Let  me 
exhort  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
Bishops,  Presidents,  leading  men, moth- 
ers in  Israel  see  to  it  that  your  sons 
and  daughters  and  those  under  your 
care  are  thoroughly  taught  in  regard 
to  this  principle.  We  are  not  a  people 
with  one  idea  only;  not  alone  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  not  alone  the  law  of  tithing; 
but  the  law  of  marriage,  the  law  of  hon- 
esty, of  virtue,  of  charity  and  of  up- 
rightness among  the  people  and  be- 
tween each  other.  We  believe  in  all 
these  doctrines,  and  we  believe  that  if 
a  man  would  be  saved  and  exalted  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God  he  must  do  all 
that  it  is  possible  for  man  to  do.  All 
the  requirements  of  the  Lord  must  be 
accomplished  if  we  would  attain  to  all 
that  is  to  be  obtained  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  Father.  And  every 
Latter-day  Saint  has  started  out  for 
that— the  obtaining  of  eternal  life,  and 
the  greatest  degree  of  glory  that  can 
be  obtained  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 
Then  to  obtain  this  I  say  that  the  full 
and  perfect  law  of  the  Father  must  be 
observed.  We  are  to  be  rewarded  fof 
our  works.  We  must  earn  what  we  ob- 
tain. We  have  our  sins  upon  us  and  we 
cannot  atone  for  them  ourselves;  they 
have  been  atoned  for  by  the  Son  of 
God.  But  we  must  repent  of  them, 
which  we  can  do.  Every  man  can  re- 
Pent  who  will;  for  the  spirit  of  repent- 


ance, a  gift  of  God,  waits  upon  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  as  does  the  light  of  day, 
as  does  air,  heat  and  cold,  and  all  these 
conditions  that  attend  closely  upon  the 
movements  of  mankind.  So  does  th<» 
spirit  of  faith,  of  humility,  of 
righteousness  and  virtue  always  at- 
tend upon  the  people.  These 
two  spirits  are  anxious  that 
we  should  entertain  them.  Why  will  we 
not?  R  is  according  to  the  will  of  man 
that  he  turns  against  the  truth  and 
closes  his  heart  against  it.  The  truth 
may  be  here  abundantly  on  every  hand, 
and  we  can  close  our  hearts  against  it. 
Let  us  not  do  this,  my  brethren  a,nd 
sisters.  It  is  only  a  little  season  that 
we  live  here.  This  probation  of  ours  is 
very  brief.  I  discover  this  when  I  find 
that  in  a  little  time  I  shall  be  an  old 
man,  ready  to  pass  away;  and  my 
brethren  the  same.  Now  I  have  passed 
half  a  hundred,  and  when  men  get  to 
that  age  they  become  old  men,  and  xt te* 
that  their  race  to  the  end  is  very  rapid; 
they  get  old  in  a  very  short  time;  years 
and  periods  become  brief.  Now  we 
want  to  be  prepared,  and  remember 
that  it  is  only  a  little  span.  Ninety 
years,  such  as  President  Woodruff  ived", 
will  be  looked  upon,  when  he  passes  be- 
yond and  looks  back  over  his  career  of 
the  past  in  mortality,  as  just  a  brief, 
brief  span.  It  would  seem  as  though 
we  could  almost  hold  our  breath  that 
long,  to  get  over  without  doing  anything 
that  is  wrong.  Let  us  shun  evil.  Let 
us  seek  to  know  the  mind  and  will  of 
the  Lord,  obtain  the  Holy  Ghost  and  en- 
joy it  all  the  day  long,  and  the  Lord  will 
lead  us  gently  home.  Oh!  whaJt  joy  and 
happiness  there  is  when  we  are  serving 
God  with  full  purpose  of  heart  all  the 
time,  when  sin  ceases  to  afflict  us,  when 
temptations  and  trials  are  kept  far 
from  us.  The  path  is  straight,  it  is  nar- 
row, but  it  is  easy  and  most  pleasant. 
Let  us  try  and  walk  it,  and  be  faithful 
in  the  discharge  of  every  duty. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  in  regard  to 
this  work.  It  is  the  work  of  our  Father 
who  dwells  in  heaven.  It  is  the  work 
established  by  Him,  and  not  by  man. 
When  I  hear  the  brethren  say,  as  was 
testified  to  here  by  Brother  John  Henry 
Smith,  that  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  I  say  to  myself,  Why  tne 
Christian  world  acknowledge  that.  But 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  question  in  the  Christian  world  Is, 
where  is  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  that  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation?  -  I  would  testify  to  afll  this 
'great  assembly  here — brothers,  sisters, 
friends,  strangers — that  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  was  re- 
stored in  its  ancient  power  and  purity 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We 
possess  it  today.  We  have  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  which  is  His  authority  and 
power.  It  is  in  the .  earth,  and  with  all 
our  imperfections,  weaknesses  and  fol- 
lies, yet  hath  the  Lord  maintained  us, 
and  He  will  do  if  we  are  fairly  faithful. 
The  more  faithful  we  are  the*  more  will 
we  witness  the  power  of  God  and  the 
more  readily  will  everything  be  accom- 
plished that  comes  along  which  needs 
the  attention,  of  the  Lord  and  of  His 
servants;  the  more  readily  and  perfect- 
ly will  every  gap  be  filled,  and  you  will 
find  the  Church  of  God  will  move  so 
regularly  and  smoothly  along  that  there 
will  never  be  a  ripple.  We  may  have  a 
rough  road  to  travel  over,  as  we  have 
had  in  the  past;  we  may  have  difficul- 
ties and  trials,  and  the  world  may  be 
measurably  arrayed  against  us,  and  try 
to  destroy  us  or  do  us  harm,  feeling  all 
the  time,  no  doubt,  in  their  hearts  that 
they  are  doing  the  greatest  possible 
good  and  are  anxious  for  our  salvation; 
but  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  our 
Father  who  dwells  in  heaven — that 
Father  whom  Jesus  taught  His  disciples 
to  pray  to,  "Our  Father,  which  art  in 
heaven" — that  same  great  Parent  over- 
looks these  affairs,  and  is  guiding  and 
controlling  the  destinies  of  this  people, 
as  He  is  the  destinies  of  all  other  peo- 
ple; and  with  this  people  abides  today 
that  Gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God 
unto1  salvation,  and  it  will  endure  and 
accomplish  what  the  Lord  has  designed 
it  shall  accomplish — the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 
Instructions  should  embrace  temporal  as  well  as 
spiritual  subjects—  Some  duties  of  officers  of 
the  Church  and  of  parents — Avoid  evil  speaking 
and  contention— Periodicity  of  times  of  plenty 
and  scarcity.  Husband  the  products  of  the 
earth. 

I  would  like  your  attention,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  for  the  few  moments 


that  I  may  stand  before  you,  for  I  be- 
lieve it  is  difficult  to  make  all  of  this 
vast  congregation  hear  the  words  of  the 
speaker.  Some  very  good  things  have 
been  said  in  testimony  and  otherwise 
which  have  been  lost  to  a  portion  of  the 
congregation;  but  I  believe  if  we  were 
quiet  throughout  this  building  that  it 
would  not  be  very  difficult  to  hear  an 
ordinary  voice  in  every  part  of  it. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  during  the 
meetings  that  have  been  held  here  and 
have  listened  with  attention  to  the  re- 
marks of  my  brethren.  Great  things 
have  been  said;  great  ideas  have  been 
advanced;  great  principles  have  been 
dwelt  upon,  for  our  brethren  have 
spoken  of  those  things  that  pertain  to 
eternal  life.  I  have  felt  to  say  in  my 
heart:  if  we  have  not  the  Gospel,  the 
Lord  have  mercy  upon  us,  for  our  fel- 
low-men will  not  have  mercy,  the  world 
will  not  have  mercy  upon  this  people; 
but  if,  as  we  testify,  we  have  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Son  of  God,  who  can  prevail 
against  us?  Not  the  world,  nor  the  ad- 
versary of  our  souls,  if  we  live  in  har- 
mony with  the  revelations  of  God  that 
He  has  given  unto  us.  I  know  that  we 
have  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.  I 
do  not  know  that  I  will  be  saved  in  His 
celestial  kingdom,  but  I  know  that  He 
has  revealed  to  me  all  that  is  necessary, 
in  the  past  and  the  present,  and  will 
reveal  unto  me,  personally,  and  by  the 
instructions  of  my  brethren,  all  that  is 
necessary  to  guide  me  in  the  future, 
that  I  may  return  back  into  His  pres- 
ence. I  know  this  to  be  so;  that  it  is 
the  truth;  and  my  desire  for  you  is  like 
the  desire  I  have  for  myself,  to  again 
meet  with  you  in  the  presence  of  our 
eoramoo  Father  in.  His  celestial  king- 
dom. 

If  people  expect  that  we,  who  are  here 
in  these  stands,  are  to  confine  ourselves 
to-  the  spiritual  necessities  of  the  king- 
dom of  God,  they  are  somewhat  mis- 
taken. We  have  to  deal  with  that 
which  is  before  us,  the  every  day  life 
which  we  live  in  the  localities  where  our 
homes  and  interests  are  situated.  We 
can  come  here  and  feel  well  for  a  short 
time,  but  if  we  lay  aside  the  spirit  we 
obtain  at  these  conferences,  and  which 
we  will  find  in  our  meetings  at  home 
if  we  attend  them— if  we  lay  that  spirit 
aside,  the  course  of  life  will  seem  too 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  10UNG. 


49 


strong  for  us.    I  never  saw  a  time  in 
my  life,  in  my  experience,  when  it  was 
more  necessary  to  be  humble  in  prayer, 
in  public,  in  private,  and  in  family  wor- 
ship than  at  'the  present  time.    I  never 
saw  a   time    in   the    history   of  this 
Church,  so  far  as  my  knowledge  ex- 
tends, wben  we  were  more  tempted  to 
omit  these  commandments  of  the  Lord; 
something   intervenes,  something  pre- 
vents the   husband  and  the  wife  from 
gathering  their  families,  their  children, 
in  their  household  and  observing  this 
duty.   O,  I  haven't  time  to  pray  this 
morning.    The  temptation  is  great  to 
omit  it.   I .  testify  unto  this  congrega- 
tion that  if  you  will  go  to  your  homes 
throughout  the  length    and  breadth  of 
the  land  and  will    humbly  seek  your 
Father  in  prayer  and  in  supplication,  in 
private  and  in  public,  as  your  duty  may 
call  and  the  spirit  direct,  that  you  will 
grow  and  increase  and  life  will  become 
a  ten-fold  pleasure  to  you.    I  testify  to 
you  that  you  will  create  a  sentiment 
and  a  feeling  in  the  hearts  'of  your  sons 
and  daughters  that  you  will  marvel  at, 
and  rejoice  to  see  the  reformation  that 
will  take  place  in  all  the  households  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  who  observe  this 
simple  duty.    Try  it.    Let  every  man 
and  every  woman  go  from  this  Confer- 
ence with  a  determination  to  observe 
these   requirement's   which    God  has 
made  of  them.   We  go  into  the  Stakes 
and  visit  the  people  a  great  deal,  and 
we  find  much  that  needs  talking  about. 
In  some  Stakes  that  I   have  visited  in 
the  past— I  will  say  in  the  last  year — 
I  find  occasionally  that  the  President  of 
the  Stake  has  lost  his  grip  to  some  ex- 
tent, lost  'his  influence,  and  that  there 
are  opposing    forces    arrayed  against 
him  among   his  brethren,  and  sisters-— 
that  tie  his   hands,  to  a  great  extent. 
Why  these  people  have  a  power.  One 
of  the  brethren  said  that  when  he  faced 
the  people  before  him,  who  are  in  the 
image  of    our    God  and  our  Savior,  it 
made  him  tremble.    These  people  have 
a  force  and  a  power.    If  you  are  not  in 
sympathy  with  me  when  I  stand  here 
to  teach  you,  then  I  have  no  influence. 
You  have  this  power  in  your  wards,  in 
your  societies  and  in  your  associations. 

In  visiting  some  of  the  wards  I  have 
had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  the  Relief 
Societies,  and  I  asked  one  person  in  re- 


lation to  the  visits  of    the    Bishop  to 
their  meetings.     "Why,"  the  president 
said  to  me,  "the  Bishop  never  visits  us; 
he  never  attends  our  meetings."  Here 
is  a  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  Bishop 
in  something  that  is  very  essential,  and 
they  should  repent  of   this,  and  every 
meeting  that  is  held,  every  interest  of 
that  ward,  should  be  his  especial  care, 
and  make  it  his  duty  to  supervise  it  as 
far  as  need  be,  and  be  in  perfect  har- 
mony with  them  and  have  them  in  per- 
fect   harmony  with  him    in  all  their 
labors.     I    go    again  to  the  Sabbath 
school,  and  on  one  occasion  I  said  to  the 
presiding  officer:    "Who  are  those  little 
boys  on  those  back  benches?"  "Why," 
he  said  to  me  in  a  whisper,  "those  are 
our  hoodlums.    We  work  with  them  as 
best  we  can.    You  see  that  brother  is 
a  mild  tempered    man.     He  sits  right 
there  by  those  little  fellows  trying  to 
keep  them  in  order;  and  we  use  every 
effort  and  all  the  persuasion  that  we  are 
capable  of  to  get  them  to  observe  order, 
but  I  tell  you,  Brother  Young,  with  all 
they  get  from  here,  their  parents  are 
indifferent  as  to  what  their  children  do. 
Parents  neglect  their  children  and  they 
run  hither  and  thither  all  the  week  long 
and  when  they  come  into  the  Sabbath 
school  it  is  almost  useless  to  try  to  keep 
them  quiet  and  orderly  for  the  little  fel- 
lows have  been  neglected  and  disorderly 
the  whole  week."    Fathers  and  mothers 
do  not  second  the  efforts  of  these  excel- 
lent, disinterested  teachers  who  go  Sab- 
bath after  Sabbath  to    their  Sunday 
schools,  and  seek  to  inform  their  chil- 
dren's minds  that  they  may  grow  up 
useful  men  and  women  in  the  Church  of 
Christ.    There  is  a  neglect  in  this  de- 
partment throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  land.    Will  the  people  of 
this  Conference  go  from  here  and  take 
up  these    subjects    and    say   in  their 
hearts:    With  the  help  of  God  we  wtfll 
aid  the  Sabbath  schools,  for  they  can- 
not do  it  all?  The  president  of  a  Sltake 
cannot  do  everything;  the  Bishop  can- 
not   do  everything;     but    we  are  all 
neglectful  in  some  things,  and  here  are 
evils  that  must  be  corrected. 

I  And  in  some  localities  that  there  is 
a  disregard  of  the  principle  of  tithing 
as  well.  Who  is  forced  to  pay  tith- 
ing? Nobody;  the  principle  upon 
which  some  of  the  brethren  work  with 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


whom  I  am  acquainted  is,  they  say  in 
their  hearts,  and  they  have  said  it  to 
me:  "I  want  to  bind  the  Lord.  He 
has  promised;  I  want  to  fulfill  my  part 
of  that  promise  that  it  may  be  verified 
to  me."  They  are  punctual  and  they 
strive  to  discharge  that  obligation.  If 
we  do  it  not,  we  have  no  promise,  but 
we  have  a  promise  if  we  fulfill  it, 
and  though  we  may  do  it  imperfectly 
but  with  a  good  and  honest  heart  and 
if  we  are  striving  to  do  our  duty  in 
this  respect,  God  ds  bound  to  fulfill  His 
part.  He  always  does  it,  as  was  testi- 
fied of  here  by  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken  this  morning.  God  always  ful  ■ 
fills  His  pant.  Now,  brethren,  try  it. 
If  you  come  here  and  listen  to  the 
words  of  inspiration  from  our  Presi- 
dency, from  our  brethren,  the  leading 
men,  they  fall  upon,  stony  ground  if 
you  do  not  heed  them.  You  must  not 
do  this.  Go  from  here  with  the  deter- 
mination that  with  the  help  of  God  you 
will  fulfill  yoiur  obligations. 

There  is  another  thing  that  I  find  a 
great  evil  among  some  of  the  people, 
and  that  is  moral  cowardice.  A  brother 
offends,  and  they  have  not  the  moral 
courage  to  go  to  him  and  say:  "You 
have  offended  me;  let  us1  make  it  right, 
brother,  so  that  we  can  live  in  harmo- 
ny." Brethren,  and  sisters,  make  up 
your  minds  to  take  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  study  what  God  says 
upon  this  subject;  when  you  go  to 
your  homes.,  read  it;  and  with  the  help 
of  God  keep  enmity  and  jealousy  out 
of  your  hearts.  God  has  commanded 
it  and  He  demands  it  at  our  handsi — 
that  we  have  no  such  feelings.  He  de- 
mands it  this  day,  because  they  are 
evils  in  our  midst.  Let  me  have  the 
moral  courage,  and  instead  of  saying 
as  I  have  heard  men.  say:  "I  will  get 
even  with  him,"  let  me  go  to  the  man 
if  I  have  got  anything  to  say  to  him 
and  say  it  in  as  mild  a  spirit  as  I 
can  command  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit,  of  God,  and  say  to  him:  "Let 
us  heal  these  differences."  That  brings 
peace,  that  brings  love  and  joy,  and  the 
love  of  God  will  increase  in  the  midst 
of  the  people. 

"We  are  too  apt  to  make  a  man  an 
offender  for  a  word.  If  God  was  to 
make  you  and  I  an  offender  for  a  word, 
we  never  would  rise  above  the  existence 


we  have  here;  we  never  could  see  any- 
thing better  than  we  have  here;  but 
He  would  have  you  to  never  sit  in 
judgment  upon  your  fellowmen.  Let 
God  judge,  whose  right  it  is  to  judge. 
Who  knows  what  his  providences  are? 
If  I  am  injured,  or  tempted,  or  should 
have  to  meet  sorrow  or  sickness  or 
death,  if  I  have  lived  according  to  the 
light  that  He  has  given  me,  am  I  not 
safe  in  every  particular?  O,  yes.  God 
will  overrule;  but  don't  let  me  sit  in 
judgment  upon  my  fellow  man;  let 
God  judge;  and  let  me  say  in  my 
heart,  However  constrained  my  cir- 
cumstances may  be,  I  acknowledge  the 
hand  of  God  in  everything. 

Now,  beware  of  the  leaven  of  the 
Gentiles,  I  suppose  this  is  too  plain 
talk  for  this  time  of  year,  under  the 
circumstances.  What  do  I  mean  by 
it?  I  mean  by  that  that  you  have  re- 
ceived a  knowledge  of  the  Holy  One, 
and  the  leaven  of  the  Gentiles  is  to 
leaven  that  knowledge  that  you  have 
received  from  God  Himself  until  it  is 
entirely  obscured. 

Now,  there  is  a  great  harvest;  the 
earth  groans  with  her  harvest.  Look- 
ing backward  need  I  cite  you  to  the 
past  few  year's  experience  that  we  have 
had,  need  I  say  to  you  that  the  day 
was  when  your  cattle  was  worth  noth- 
ing? The  man  that  owned  the  most 
cattle  was  among  the  poorest  in  Zion. 
Today  we  are  beginning  to  talk  of  cat- 
tle kings.  There  was  no  demand  for 
them;  no  demand  for  grain  today;  but 
a  little  while  ago,  there  was  no  demand 
for  property  in  Salt  Lake  and  through- 
out the  State.  Bye  and  bye,  men  were 
aroused  and  went  in  a  sense  crazy. 
These  men  are  not  all  dead,  and  they 
are  liable  to  go  crazy  again.  Plenty 
will  follow  a  dearth,  and  dearth  will 
follow  plenty.  We  are  thriving  i'n  every 
particular,  in  every  manner,  in  wealth, 
material  wealth  that  is  useful,  that 
builds  us  up,  that  feeds  and  clothes  us, 
that  gives  us  homes  and  habitations, 
beautiful  orchards,  gardens,  farms- 
all  that  we  desire.  We  are  wonderfully 
blessed  in  material  wealth  here. 
Brethren  do  you  not  suppose  that  there 
will  come  a  time  when  these,  all  these 
things  will  be  changed?     Why  I  know 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


5] 


that  such  action  will  come.  I  do  not 
know  when,  but  mark  it,  whenever 
there  Is  a  flush,  ^t  seems  to  me  that  the 
opposite  follows.  It  is  so  in  the  rains 
that  fall  upon  the  earth;  when  we  have 
deep  snows  in  the  mountains  and 
plenty  of  water  here,  in  a  little  time 
this  plentiful  supply  is  followed  by  a 
drougth.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  comes 
in  streaks. 

Well,  now,  this  is  so  in  our  lives. 
God  will  temper  these  things  to  the 
good  of  His  people.  When  the  earth 
yields  in  abundance  is  the  time  to  take 
care  of  it.  When  you  have  plenty  of 
grain,  plenty  of  wealth  and  the  abund- 
ance of  the  earth  is  given  to  you,  I 
say  to  you»  go  from  this  Conference  and 
take  care  of  it.  Brother  George  God- 
dard  said  yesterday  a  thing  that  was 
written  upon  my  mind  and  has  been 
ever  since  I  saw  the  fields  north  and 
South:  Seeing  the  enormous  quantity 
of  the  products  of  the  earth,  I  felt  in 
my  heart  that  a  scarcity  may  follow 
this  plenty.  I  do  pray  that  the  Saints, 
above  all  men,  will  take  care  of  the 
bounties  that  the  Lord  has  given  them. 

There  is  a  great  deal  that  comes  to 
my  mind  in  relation  to  this  matter, 
but  I  haven't  time  to  talk  about  it,  and 
I  do  not  think  it  would  be  profitable 
to  do  it  here,  but  I  can  touch  upon  the 
points  that  I  had  in  my  mind  and  that 
come  to  me  standing  here,  for  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  be  mindful  of. 

One  of  the  great  things  for  us  to  do 
is  to  be  mindful  of  our  children,  our 
sons  and  daughters.  Now  some  of  you 
who  live  in  the  country  permit  your 
daughters  to  come  to  this  city  to  get 
work.  They  come  here  to  work  for  a 
livelihood,  to  get  themselves  clothing 
and  to  help  their  families,  and  for 
other  reasons.  Our  girls  want  to  ap- 
pear as  well  as  anybody.  They  are 
certainly  as  good  looking  as  any  other 
class  of  young  ladies  I  have  met  in  my 
travels  on  the  earth,  and  they  want  to 
show  their  good  looks  and  be  a  little 
fashionable.  We  cannot  help  that;  I 
do  not  know  that  they  can.  But  there 
is  a  great  difference  between  this  and 
permitting  them  to  be  surrounded  by 
circumstances  through  which  they 
might  be  led  astray.     If  it  is  necessary 


for  them  to  go  out  to  work,  try  to  see 
that  they  get  a  situation  where  they 
at  least  will  be  respected,  and  return 
to  you  as  they  left  you,  with  their  vir- 
tue not  destroyed,  but  willing  to  come 
into  the  family  circle,  and  the  family 
circle  willing  to  receive  them. 

I  rejoice  with  you.  God  bless  you, 
and  let  us  one  and  all  go  from  this  Con- 
ference .with  the  determination  that  we 
will  live  as  God  would  have  us  live, 
that  we  may  attain  unto  the  great 
blessing  of  eternal  life. 

May  God  be  with  us  in  our  homes 
and  in  our  habitations  throughout  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  land,  and 
strengthen  us  in  the  cause  of  truth,  for 
I  believe  in  my  heart  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  the  only  people  that  are 
striving  intelligently  to  be  saved  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  God. 
Amen. 

The  Huntington  choir  sang  the  an- 
them : 

The  song  of  the  Redeemer. 
Benediction  by  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 


2  p.  m. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  choir  and 
congregation: 

God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 

His  wonders  to  perform. 
Prayer  by  Elder  Anthon  H.  Lund. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

God  of  Israel,  hear  our  prayer. 

The  solo  parts  were  sung  by  Siste.' 
Lizzie  Thomas-Edward  and  Brother 
Thomas  Ashworth,  and  the  quartet  by 
these  and  Sister  Mabel  Cooper  and 
Brother  Willard  Chrisitopherson, 

The  quorums  of  Priesthood  were 
present  in  solemn  assembly  for  the  pur- 
pose of  voting,  in  that  capacity,  for  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
They  were  arranged  as  follows: 

The  Twelve  Apostles  in  their  usual 
seats  on  the  main  stand. 

On  the  south  part  of  the  sband,  the 
Patriarchs,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes, 
with  their  counselors,  and  High  Coun- 
cilors. 

On  the  north  part  of  the  st'and,  the 
Bishops  and  their  counselors,  with  the 
Presifling  Bishopric  in  front  of  them. 

The  High  Priests  in  the  north  center 
of  the  body  of  the  house;  the  quorum 
presidents  in  front. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  Seventies  in  the  south  center  of 
the  body  of  the  house,  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  in  front. 

The  Elders  immediately  behind  the 
High  Priests. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  on  the  north 
side  of  the  house. 

The  gallery  was  occupied  by  the 
people  in  general. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 
said: 

This  is  a  very  solemn  occasion, 
and  the  spectacle  from  the  stand  is 
most  impressive.  It  is  difficult  to  re- 
press emotion  on  seeling  such  an  as- 
sembly. "We  have  come  together  this 
afternoon  in  solemn  assembly,  to  vote 
for  the  authorities  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Every  one  present  is  entitled  to  vote — 
to  vote  as  he  pleases — that  is,  every 
member  of  the  Church.  They  can 
either  vote  for  or  against.  Every  one 
has  perfect  liberty.  And  it  is  well 
that  you  should  understand  the  method 
of  voting.  The  brethren  will  be  called 
upon  in  their  various  quorum  capa- 
cities to  vote.  If  their  vote  is  an  af- 
firmative vote,  they  will  rise  from  their 
seats  and  raise  their  right  hands. 
When  they  have  thus  voted,  if  there 
are  any  negative  votes— they  having 
kept  their  seats — they  can  rise  and 
vote.  And  each  one  as  I  have  said, 
will  have  perfect  liberty  to  vote  as  he 
pleases. 

The  order  of  voting  by  quorums  was 
as  follows: 

First — The  Twelve  Apostles. 

Second— The  Patriarchs,  Presidents 
of  Slakes  and  their  counselors,  and  the 
High  Councilors. 

Third— High  Priests. 

Fourth — Seventies. 

Fifth— Elders. 

Sixth— Bishops  and  their  counselors. 

Seventh  —  Priests,  Teachers  and 
Deacons. 

Eighth— The  entire  congregation. 

In  each  instance  President  Cannon 
announced  the  vote  to  sustain  the  au- 
thorities successively,  then  said  to  the 
voting  quorum:  Are  you  prepared  to 
vote  upon  this  question?  If  so,  arise 
to  your  feet  and  raise  your  right  hands. 
"When  the  arffimativc  vote  was  cast  he 


called  for  those  opposed,  to  arise  to 
their  feet. 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelatcr,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  que  rum  of  the 
Twelve  Apcstles — Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, Erigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Ly- 
man, John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teas- 
dale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor, 
Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Arlthon  H.  Lund, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley  and  Abraham  0. 
"Woodruff. 

All  the  voting  was  unanimous,  and 
it  was  so  announced,  until  the  nega- 
tive vote  upon  sustaining  the  members 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
was  called  from  the  Elders.  Two  of 
these  arose  to  their  feet.  President 
Cannon  addressing  them,  asked  who 
they  objected  to  and  for  what  reason? 

Each  of  these  two  Elders  said  he  ob- 
jected to  John  "W.  Taylor,  and  the  rea- 
son was  certain  objectionable  remarks 
made  by  him  in  Conference  on  Friday, 
October  7th. 

They  were  asked  if  they  would  come 
to  the  stand  at  the  close  of  the  session 
and  see  whether  Brother  Taylor  could 
make  the  matter  right  with  and  satis- 
fy them.  Both  replied  that  they  were 
willing  to  do  this. 

The  voting  for  members  of  the  quo- 
rum of  the  Twelve  Apostles  then  went 
forward  uninterrupted  and  was  unani- 
mous, until  the  negative  vote  of  the 
entire  Congregation  was  called  for.  At 
this  point  a  number  of  members  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir,  probably  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  of  both  sexes,  arose  to 
their  feet. 

On  being  asked  by  President  Can- 
non who  they  objected  to  and  the  rea- 
son for  it,  they  replied  that  they  object- 
ed to  John  W.  Taylor  on  account  of 
some  disparaging  remarks  he  had  made 
in  Conference  regarding  the  choir,  on 
Friday,  October  7th.  They  were  asked 
if  they  were  willing  that  Brother  Tay- 
lor should  personally  meet  with  the 
choir  and  endeavor  to  make  the  mat- 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


ter  right  to  their  satisfaction.  They 
signified  that  this  arrangement  was 
agreeable  to  them. 

It  was  then  announced  by  President 
Cannon  that  a  vacancy  had  been  cre- 
ated in  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  by  the  removal  of  President 
Snow  from  it  to  assume  the  position 
of  President  of  the  Church.  It  had 
been  decided  that  this  vacancy  should 
be  filled,  and  announced  the  name  of 
Rudger  Clawson  for  the  position.  The 
mind  and  word  of  the  Lord  had  been 
obtained  upon  the  selection  of  Brother 
Clawson  for  this  office. 

A  motion  was  made  and  put  to  the 
several  quorums  and  to  the  entire  con- 
gregation, -that  Rudger  Clawson  be 
ordained  an  Apostle,  be  one  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  and  a  member  of  that 
council.  The  voting  was  unanimously 
affirmative. 

The  following  authorities  were  then 
presented  to  the  entire  congregation 
to  be  voted  upon  in  the  usual  way 
which  obtains  at  ordinary  General 
Conferences,  and  were  unanimously 
sustained: 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch     'to     the      Church— John 

Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  -the  Seven- 
ties—Seymour B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  as  his 
first  and  John  R.  Winder  as  his  sec- 
ond counselor. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  Church 
historian  and  general  Church  recorder, 
with  John  Jaques,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose and  Andrew  Jenso'n  as  his  assist- 
ants. 

As  'the  General  Church  Board  of 
Education — Lorenzo  Snow,  George,  Q. 
Cannon,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  Willard 
Young,  Anihon  H.  Lund,  James  Sharp, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  Nicholson  and 
George  H.  Brimhall. 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  'the  body  of 
religious  worshippers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — Lorenzo  Snow. 

John  Nicholson  as  olerk  of  'the  Gen- 
eral Conference. 


53 

It  Was  stated  thait  the  release  of  the 
presidency  of  the  European  mission 
had  been  contemplated,  and  that  one 
of  the  number,  Elder  Edwin  F.  Parry, 
had  already  returned.  By  unanimous 
voite  of  the  Conference  Elders  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseiph  W.  McMurrin 
were  'also  released,  aind  Plate  D.  Lyman 
appointed  bo  preside  over  'the  European 
mission,  with  James  L.  McMurrin  arid 
Henry  W.  Naisbitt  as  his  counselors. 

Similar  unanimous  action  was  taken 
with  regani  'to  releasing  Brother 
Lautensock  from  the  position  of  presi- 
dent over  the  German  mission  and  the 
appointment  of  Arnold  H.  Schuithess 
to  succeed  him. 

President  Cannon  remarked  that 
there  was  no  other  Church  in  the 
world  the  officers  of  which  were  sub- 
jected to  such  an  ordeal  as  had  been 
applied  to  those  who  had  been  voted 
on  here  today,  and  he  felt  'thankful  for 
the  unanimity  that  had  prevailed. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  very 
trying  position  that  I  occupy  before 
you  this  afternoon.  It  isi  true,  as 
President  Cannon  has  said,  thait  I  have 
been  placed  in  some  trying  situations. 
I  was  with  Elder  Joseph  Standing  at 
the  time  of  his  martyrdom,  and  was 
myself  exposed  for  a  few  moments  to 
martyrdom,  but  I  escaped  through  the 
providence  of  the  Lord.  I  have  been 
placed  behind  prison  bars  for  the  tes- 
timony of  Jesus,  and  that  was  a  very 
trying  situation.  When  I  came  out  of 
the  penitentiary  I  was  told  that  the 
Lord  wanted  me  to  labor  as  President 
of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  and  I  assure 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that 
was  a  great  surprise  to  me  at  that 
time,  and  very  trying.  I  had  been 
brought  up  in  Salt  Lake  City;  all  my 
interests,  all  my  associations,  and,  as 
I  thought,  all  my  expectations  were  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  it  was  a  great 
trial  for  me  to  be  called  away.  No 
inducements  were  offered,  but  I  was 
told  that  the  Lord  would  bless  and  sus- 
tain me  in  that  appointment,  and  I 
testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  have  been  sustained  in  my  presi- 
dency of  the  Box  Elder  Stake  of  Zion, 
and  I  have  enjoyed  my  labors  there. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


There  is  a  good  people  in  that  Stakes — 
a  people,  I  believe,  'who  are  trying  to 
serve  the  Lord.  They  have  sustained 
me  and  I  have  felt  blessed  and  pros- 
pered in  my  labors  there.  This  later 
call  that  has  come  has  proven  to  be  a 
very  great  surprise.  I  had  no>  knowl- 
edge of  it;  I  had  no  notice  of  it  what- 
ever, only  as  it  has  come  to  me  today 
in  this  meeting.  My  patriarchal  bless- 
ing, that  was  given  a  number  of  years 
ago,  indicated  that  I  would  be  called 
to  a  high  appointment  in  the  Church  in 
the  due  time  of  the  Lord,  and  I  pre- 
sume that  this  is  the  appointment  now. 
I  feel  very  weak;  1  feel  very  humble. 
I  know  that  unless  I  can  enjoy  the 
spirit  of  the  apostleship  and  the  faith 
and  prayers  and  the  support  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters  of  this  Church  I 
cannot  stand,  I  cannot  succeed  in  this 
labor;  and  therefore  I  earnestly  pray 
that  God  will  be  with  me,  and  that  I 
may  have  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT    LORENZO  SNOW. 

A  serious  ordeal— A.  godlike  resolve— The  Saints 
increasing  In  strength— Will  have  greater  power 
in  the  future— glory  and  dominion  in  eternity. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  to  me  is, 
as  it  undoubtedly  is  to  you,  a  solemn 
scene.  It  is  wonderful  what  the  Elders 
of  Israel  have  succeeded  in  securing; 
it  is  perfectly  marvelous  the  union  of 
feeling  and  of  action,  found  nowhere 
else  in  the  world,  among  such  a  great 
number  of  people  as  are  here  this  af- 
ternoon. I  never  felt  more  humble 
than  I  do  on  this  occasion.  It  is,  as 
was  said  by  President  Cannon,  a  seri- 
ous ordeal  through  which  we  have  to 
pass  from  time  to  time — to  be  pre- 
sented here  before  the  people,  and  all 
of  our  past  acts  and  doings  viewed  by 
them,  and  we  depend  upon  their  sanc- 
tion and  approval  or  rejection.  This 
belongs  to  them.  The  Holy  Spirit  of 
light,  that  brings  intelligence  to  us 
and  an  understanding  of  sacred  things, 
belongs  to  every  member  of  the 
Church.  They  have  a  right  to  pass 
their  opinion  upon  those  that  are  pre- 
siding over  them.  The  works  and 
the  labors  that  the  officers  perform  in 


the  presence  of  this  people  may  be 
known  and  understood  by  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church — in  a  general  way, 
at  least.  There  may  be  some  things 
that  the  First  Prsidency  do;  that  the 
Apostles  do,  that  cannot  for  the  mo- 
ment be  explained;  yet  the  spirit,  the 
motives  that  inspire  the  action  can  be 
understood,  because  each  member  of 
the  Church  has  a  right  to  have  that 
measure  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  they 
can  judge  as  to  those  who  are  acting 
in  their  interests  or  otherwise. 

Now,  brethren,  this  much  I  say,  and 
I  say  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord:  I 
will  endeavor  to  be  devoted  to  your 
interests  and  the  interests  of  the  king- 
dom of  God.  I  will  serve  you  to  the 
best  of  my  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing, in  reference  to  that  which  will 
promote  your  interests  in  connection 
with  the  interests  of  the  Almighty.  I 
will  do  this,  the  Lord  being  my  helper. 

It  is  an  easy  thing  for  us  to  rise  here 
and  raise  our  right  hands  in  token  of 
our  approval  of  what  is  presented  be- 
fore us.  I  can  do  that  without  any 
trouble,  and  so  can  you.  But  there 
is  something  involved  in  this  rising 
here  and  raising  our  right  hands  in  ap- 
proval of  the  propositions  presented; 
there  is  a  meaning  to  it;  something 
that  ought  to  be  well  considered,  and 
that  is,  acting  in  the  future  in  accord- 
ance with  this  manifestation  of  our 
approval.  Now,  I  know — and  I  know 
it  well;  no-body  can  know  it  better- 
that  if  this  mighty  Priesthood  and 
these  Latter-day  Saints  that  are  before 
me  will  act  up  to  that  which  they 
have  approved  by  raising  their  right 
hands  and  in  accordance  with  the  mo- 
tives that  undoubtedly  inspired  them, 
the  progress  of  this  Church  will  be 
more  rapid  than  it  has  been  in  the 
past.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  be- 
coming stronger.  They  are  much 
stronger  at  this  Conference  than  they 
were  at  the  last,  as  a  general  thing. 
There  are  some,  no  doubt,  that  are 
weaker,  that  have  not  the  strength 
and  the  faith  they  had  six  months  ago; 
but  the  people,  speaking  generally, 
are  much  stronger  and,  if  called  upon, 
could  endure  more  and  make  higher 
sacrifices  than  they  could  have  done 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


55 


six  months  ago.  There  is  a  satisfac- 
tion in  this  consideration. 

In  this  solemn  assembly,  let  us  decree 
in  our  hearts,  let  us  inwardly  testify 
to  the  Dord,  that  we  will  be  a  better 
people,  a  more  united  people  at  our 
next  Conference  than  we  are  today. 
This  should  be  the  feeling-  and  deter- 
mination of  every  man  and  woman 
present  in  this  solemn  assembly.  T 
feel  in  my  heart  that  I  will  try  to  be 
more  devoted  than  I  have  been  in  the 
past  to  the  interests  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  the  carrying-  out  of  His 
purposes.     We  are  bound  to  rise  and 
to  advance  in  power  and  in  influence 
in  the  midst  of  the  world.     There  may, 
as  has  been  suggested  by  one  of  the 
speakers,  be  opposition  to  meet  of  a 
nature  that  we  have  never  met  before; 
such  things  have  come  in  the  past,  and 
will  come  in  the  future;  but  I  will  as- 
sure you  that  if  we  will  do  our  duty 
with  a  determination  that  we  will  be 
prepared  for  everything;   we  will  go 
through  successfully    any  future  diffi- 
culties that  may  arise  no  matter  how 
serious  they  may  be.     "We  have  done 
wonders;  we  have  passed  through  dif- 
ficulties and  made  sacrifices  that  are 
marvelous,  when  we  consider  their  na- 
ture.   And  we  have  done,  and  will  do 
in  the  future,  that  which    we  never 
could  have  done  unless  we  had  edu- 
cated ourselves  by  the  spirit  and  power 
of  God.     We  are  a  mighty  people,  and 
growing  mightier  as  trials    and  diffi- 
culties arise.     I  can  imagine  that  at 
some  future  period,  in  the  other  life, 
we  will  pass  through  an  ordeal  that 
will  be  as  close  and  as  serious  to  us  as 
we  have  passed  through   today;  for 
our  past  course  and  conduct  will  be 
fully  understood.      What  a  pleasure 
and  consolation  we  have  in  thinking 
of  the  past,    the    sacrifices  we  "have 
made,  the  purity  of  our  motives,  and 
the  feelings  that  have  exercised  us  in 
the  past  in  having    done    right  and 
passed  through  ordeals  that  were  of 
an  unpleasant  nature.     Coming  before 
this  mighty  people  here,  what  a  pleas- 
ure there  is  in  thinking  that  we  have 
done  heretofore  about  as  well  as  we 
knew  how,  having  kept  our  consciences 
tolerably  clear.     You  who  are  seated 


here  will  have  opportunities  of  stand- 
ing in  the  presence  of  multitudes,  and  I 
can  easily  imagine,  yonder  in  the  next 
life,  after  we  have  passed  along  per- 
haps a  thousand  years  or  more,  that 
many  of  you  who  are  here  today  will 
have  an  audience  before  you  of  your 
own  posterity.  I  am  as  sure  of  it  as  I  am 
that  I  am  talking  to  you;  I  know  it 
just  as  well  as  I  know  anything.  Now 
we  are  starting  in.  Most  of  us,  no 
doubt  ,have  sons  and  daughters  who 
will  continue  faithful  to  your  counsels, 
and  in  the  other  life  they  will  be  with 
you  and  increase  with  you.  It  was 
said  to  Abraham  on  one  occasion  that 
his  posterity  should  be  as  numerous  as 
the  sands  upon  the  sea  shore  and  as  the 
stars  in  the  firmament.  His  offspring- 
are  being  increased  generation  after 
generation. 

It  is  well  for  us,  once  in  a  while  to 
look  away  ahead  and  see  what  will  be 
the  result  of  all  the  sacrifices  and  labors 
that  we  endure  and  perform  in  this 
life.  This  existence  is  but  a  moment; 
but  the  other  life  is  continuous  from 
eternity  to  eternity.  This  is  Sunday, 
and  we  are  not  pleased  to  talk  very 
much  on  Sunday,  or  any  other  day,  on 
matters  of  politics;  but  I  sometimes 
think  that  our  friends  here  make  them- 
selves a  great  deal  of  trouble  and  there 
are  no  fruits  to  their  labors  and  ex- 
ertions. No  matter  what  condition  we 
are  in,  we  ought  to  have  that  under- 
standing that  we  can  do  all  our  labors 
whatever  they  may  be,  as  the  Lord 
pleases  that  we  should  do  them.  We 
should  perform  them  right  and  be  faith- 
ful in  every  calling  and  position  that 
we  occupy.  Whatever  may  be  the  dif- 
ficulties or  the  temptations  that  a  per- 
son may  labor  under,  he  should  so 
govern  and  control  himself  that  in 
every  condition  he  may  act  wisely  and 
in  a  way  that  will  increase  his  in- 
telligence, power  and  faith.  It  is  a 
grand  position  that  we  occupy.  Our 
future  is  glorious.  We  could  not  de- 
sire more  for  our  happiness  than 
has  been  prepared  for  us.  Those  who 
endure  unto  the  end  shall  sit  upon 
thrones,  as  Jesus  hath  overcome  and 
sat  down  upon  His  Father's  throne. 
All  things  shall  be  given  unto  such 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men  and  women,  so  we  are  told  in  the 
revelations  we  have  received.  In  view 
of  these  pnospcts,  what  should  we  not 
be  willing-  to  sacrifice  when  duty  re- 
quires? It  is  a  great  thing,  we  say, 
for  a  man  to  be  an  Apostle;  yet  there 
are  things  you  can  look  forward  to 
which  are  greater  than  this.  A  man 
has  no  reason  to  envy  his  friend  be- 
cause he  happens  to  get  a  little  higher 
than  himself.  The  glory  that  is  before, 
us  is  open  to  every  man  and  every  wo- 
man, through  this  Gospel,  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  glory  and 
exaltation,  in  the  fulness  thereof.  We 
have  learned  some  things  that  are 
more  valuable  to  us  than  a  gold  mine 
of  the  highest  richness  could  possibly 
be.  We  are  the  offspring  of  God,  He 
is  our  Father,  and  we  have  a  mother 
in  the  other  life  as  well.  These  wo- 
men that  are  sealed  to  us  for  time  and 
eternity  will,  with  our  children  be  ours 
in  the  other  life,  going  on  in  honor  and 
gl'ory.  The  Lord  has  revealed  this  to 
us,  and  we  know  it  is  so.  Is  it  not 
something  grand  to  know  these  things? 
So  I  say,  we  should  be  a  holy  people, 
a  sanctified  people,  a  people  that  God 
loves,  and  worthy  of  being  directed 
in  the  highest  path  of  glory  and  exal- 
tation. 

It  ias  been  a  grand  assembly  this 
afternoon.  We  do  not  gee  it  every 
day  in  our  lives.  How  soon  such  a 
gathering  as  this,  for  such  a  purpose 
will  be  again,  God  only  knows,  unless 
He  has  revealed  it  to  someone,  and  I 
doubt  whether  He  has. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless 


you.  I  say  it  from  my  heart,  and  I 
feel  it— God  bless  you.  I  feel  that  it 
belongs  to  me,  and  my  brethren  here, 
to  be  longsuffering,  kind,  always  ready 
to  forgive,  and  to  cherish  the  highest 
love  for  every  man  and  woman  who  is 
trying  to  do  the  will  of  God.  Do  not 
be  discouraged,  brethren.  If  you  can- 
not become  perfect  at  once;  if  you  see 
that  you  have  weaknesses  which  have 
brought  you  into  some  trouble,  do  not 
be  discouraged;  but  repent  of  that 
which  you  have  done  wrong,  by  which 
you  have  lost  more  or  less  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  tell  the  Lord  what  you  have 
done,  and  resolve  in  your  hearts  that 
you  will  do  it  no  more.  Then  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  be  upon  you.  I 
say  again,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
God  bless  you,  to  the  full  extent  of  that 
word,  and  fill  you  with  His  Holy  Spirit; 
and  may  we  all  so  live  that,  when  we 
go  forth  from  this  life  into  the  next, 
we  may  have  such  glorious  scenes  as 
we  have  here  this  afternoon.  Amen. 

Mrs.  Emily  E.  Woodward  of  Boston, 
with  much  sweetness,  sang  a  solo, 
Come  Unto  Him  All  Ye  That  Labor. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

Benediction  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done  by 
Arthur  Winter  and  E.  H.  Hol't. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET    SUNDAY   SCHOOL  UNION 


Its  Annual  General  Conference. 


The  general  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  was  held  at  the  Tabernacle, 
Sunday  evening',  October  9th,  1898,  at  7 
o'clock.  There  were  present,  of  the 
general  superintendency,  George  Q. 
Cannon,  George  Goddard  and  Karl  G. 
Maeser;  all  of  the  members  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board, 
and  aids,  several  of  the  Apostles,  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  and  many  Stake 
superintendents,  ward  officers  and  Sun- 
day school  workers. 

The  conference  opened  with  the  sing- 
ing of  "America"  by  Professor  Evan 
Stephens'  juvenile  class,  numbering 
about  300  children. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Andrew 
Kimball.  The  juveniles  then  sang 
"We  Ever  Pray  for  Thee."  General  Sec- 
retary Geo.  D.  Pyper  then  called  the 
roll,  which  was  responded  to  by  twen- 
ty-nine Stakes. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  presented  the 
general  Sunday  school  authorities,  and 
they  were  sustained  as  follows: 

George  Q.  Cannon,  general  superin- 
tendent; George  Goddard,  first  assist- 
ant general  superintendent;  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  second  assistant  general  super- 
intendent; Geo.  D.  Pyper,  general  sec- 
retary; George  Reynolds,  general  treas- 
urer; Leo  Hunsaker,  stenographer. 

As  members  of  the  ,Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board:  George  Q.  Can- 
non, George  Goddard,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C.  Griggs, 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W. 
Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George  Teas- 
dale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew  Kim- 
ball, and  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

As  aids  to  the  board:  L.  John  Nut- 
tall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett, 
John  M.  Mills,  W.  B.  Dougall,  W.  D. 


Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young  and  C.  D. 
Fjeldsted. 

First  Assistant  General  Superintend- 
ent George  Goddard  said: 

"I  feel  truly  grateful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  privilege  of  meeting  so 
many  of  you  here  in  the  interest  of  our 
Sunday  schools.  And,  as  I  notice  so 
many  in  the  congregation  before  me 
and  so  many  of  the  juveniles  behind 
me,  it  would  be  a  gratification  to  my- 
self and  the  other  authorities  of  our 
schools,  if  all  the  Sunday  school  chil- 
Iren  and  all  the  teachers  and  officers 
)f  our  Sunday  schools  that  are  here 
tonight  will  please  rise  to  their  feet, 
that  we  may  see  how  much  of  a  con- 
gregation of  Sunday  school  workers 
we  have  got.  (Almost  the  entire  con- 
gregation arose.) 

"Forty-nine  years  ago  there  was  not 
me  Sunday  school  amongst  the  Latter- 
day  Saints;  today,  we  have  over  a 
thousand.  We  have  over  12,000  teach- 
ers in  our  Sunday  schools,  and  over 
100,000  Sunday  school  children— the 
largest  numerically  of  any  organization 
in  the  Church.  We  have  forty  organ- 
ized Stakes  of  Zion.  Out  of  these 
forty  Stakes,  twenty-seven  Sunday 
school  conferences  have  been  held,  and 
some  members  of  our  Union  Board 
have  been  present  at  each,  since  our 
last  April  conference.  The  labor  now 
devolving  upon  the  Sunday  School 
Union  Board  is  very  great.  We  have 
correspondence  all  over  the  world.  We 
meet  every  Thursday,  hold  about,  on 
an  average,  a  two  hours'  meeting,  and 
that  scarcely  gives  us  time  to  get 
through  the  business  that  is  required. 
The  needs  of  all  these  schools  are  of 
that  character  that  the  Nickel  Fund 
is  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  require- 


58 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


inents  of  the  growing  conditions  of  our 
/outh.  Think  of  the  mighty  army! 
We  have  got  between  twelve  and  fif- 
teen thousand  Sunday  school  officers 
and  teachers  devoting  their  time  to 
the  work  without  any  compensation.  I 
say  God  bless  tb-  Sunday  school 
workers  for  the  love  they  take  in  train- 
ing the  youth  of  zjion  to  become  citi- 
zens fit  for  any  part  of  the  civilized 
world. 

I  was  requested  to  close  my  remarks 
by  singing  a  song,  and  a  soner  that  had 
a  good  chorus  to  it.  Six  months  ago, 
at  our  last  April  Conference,  while 
sitting  on  this  stand  here,  a  young  lady 
came  up  and  asked  me  to  rise  on  my 
feet,  and  she  placed  on  my  left  breast 
a  gold  medal,  the  head  line  of  which 
simply  reads,  "Who's  on  the  Lord's 
Side?"  That  fact  reminded  me  that  I 
could  not  make-a  better  selection  than 
to  sing  that  very  same  song. 

Elder  Goddard  sang,  "Who's  on  the 
Lord's  Side?"  At  the  end  of  the  second 
verse  he  asked  every  one  who  would 
like  to  be  on  the  Lord's  side  when  the 
Savior  ccmes  to  rise  to  their  feet  as  an 
expression  of  that  desire,  while  he 
should  sing  the  last  verse.  (The  full 
congregation  arose  and  joined  in  the 
chorus.) 

Treasurer  George  Reynolds  said  he 
simply  desired  to  make  two  or  three 
business  announcements.  The  first  was 
that  at  our  last  conference  the  general 
board  promised  that  they  would  issue 
during  the  present  year  forty  leaflets: 
but  finding  that  if  they  issued  forty 
only  they  would  have  to  leave  off  the 
iesisons  at  a  point  that  was  undesirable, 
they  had  decided  to-  is.sue  eight,  more: 
so  that  forty-eight  leaflets  will  be  is- 
sued this  year,  concluding  with  the 
Book  of  Mormon  lessons  at  the  end  of 
the  monarchy  and  the  establishment 
of  the  republic  amongst  the  Nephites. 
But  the  board  found  in  their  visits  that 
nearly  all  the  schools  are  behind;  in 
fact,  it  could  not  be  otherwise  with 
those  who,  with  care,  teach  the  leaflets, 
for  very  few  of  the  leaflets  can  be  con- 
sidered, digested  and  understood  in  one 
Sabbath  morning.  It  would  take  three 
mornings  with  many  of  those  lessons  to 
understand  them  properly.  Therefere, 
the  board  had  decided  to  cease  the  pub- 


lication of  the  leaflets  for  a  few  months, 
to  enable  the  schools  to  ,  catch  up,  and 
also  for  those  who  want  to  go  over  the 
lessons  the  second  time  to  perfect 
themselves  therein,  that  they  may  have 
the  opportunity  of  so  doing.  So  the 
leaflets  will  be  published  to  the  end  of 
the  present  year  and  then  the  Union 
board  will  cease  for  a  short  time  to  is- 
sue any  more.  He  invited  the  Stake 
superintendents  and  ward  superintend- 
ents and  other  officers  interested,  to 
call  at  the  office  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  in  the  Templeton  build- 
ing, rooms  408  and  409,  to  examine  some 
object  lesson  charts,  published  by  Ban- 
croft Bros.  &  Co.,  San  Francisco— les- 
sons which  they  claimed  were  highly 
valuable  in  the  Sunday  school  cau-se. 
They  were  more  particularly  intended 
to  illustrate  passages  of  Scripture 
wherein  natural  objects  were  spoken  of, 
such  as  the  different  seeds,  herbs,  min- 
erals, money  and  measures,  and  the 
different  kinds  of  wood,  etc. 

Elder  Reynolds  also  announced  that 
the  annual  Sunday  school  conference 
of  Uintah  Stake  would  he  held  on  the 
last  Saturday  and  Sunday  of  this 
month,  the  29th  and  30th  of  October, 
and  that  of  the  Emery  Stake  on  the  5th 
and  6th  of  November.  Other  Stake 
Sunday  school  conferences  would  be 
announced  later. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  read  t 
letter  signed  by  the  general 
superintendency  on  the  subject  of  the 
nickel  fund.    Continuing  he  said: 

"We  wish  it  understood  distinctly 
that  on  this  nickel  Sunday  we  desire  a 
nickel  from  every  man,  woman  and 
child  connected  with  the  Sunday  school. 
And  if  any  one  wants  to  pay  'a  dollar, 
five  dollars,  ten,  or  even  fifty  or  a 
hundred  dollars,  we  won't  say  no.  We 
are  perfectly  willing  to  have  you  put  a 
hundred  dollar  bill  in  the  nickel  en- 
velope, if  you  feel  like  doing  so.  Every 
dollar  that  has  ever  been  paid  in  on 
this  nickel  Sunday  has  been  used  for 
the  salvation  of  our  children.  As  has 
been  stated  here  by  Brother  Goddard, 
the  board  meets  regularly  eVery  week 
and  considers  matters  connected  with 
the  interests  of  the  Sunday  schools; 
they  devote  their  time  and  talents  for 
the  benefit  of  the  Sunday  school  cause, 
and  have  done  it  without  remuneration. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


59 


They  have  traveled  hundreds  and  thou- 
sands of  miles  in  the  interest  of  the 
Sunday  schools.  And  it  needs  this 
small  contribution  to  furnish  them  with 
the  sinews  of  war,  so  to  speak.  We 
trust  that  every  Sunday  school  super- 
intendent will  see  that  there  is  a  sum 
equal  at  least  to  the  total  number  of 
officers,  teachers  and  pupils  in  the 
school, reckoning  at  five  cents  eachjand 
we  would  be  pleased  if  you  sent  more, 
because  a  proper  use  will  be  made  of 
all  the  funds  placed  in  our  hands." 

"It  is  the  desire  of  our  general  super- 
intendent, George  Q.  Cannon,  that  the 
Sunday  schools  should  not  have  nickel 
Sundays  for  local  purposes.  "We  have 
found  that  the  system  of  nickel  day 
every  Sunday  in  the  year,  or  at  least 
once  a  month,  has  grown  up  on  ac- 
count of  this  nickel  fund  of  the  Sun- 
day School  Union.  The  nickel  Sunday 
has  become  popular,  and  a  great  ma- 
jority of  the  superintendents  and  offi- 
cers of  Sunday  schools  have  seen  how 
well  the  nickel  Sunday  has  worked  and 
have  inaugurated  this  system  for  the 
benefit  of  their  local  Sunday  schools. 
It  has  been  and  is  the  desire  and  ex- 
pressed wish  of  our  general  superinten- 
dent that  this  be  done  away  with  and 
that  we  have  the  nickel  Sunday  only 
for  the  benefit  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  Board,  and  also  for  the  benefit  of 
the  Stake  Sunday  schools,  who  receive 
one-fifth  of  the  amount  collected.  We 
trust  that  you  and  every  one  will  make 
this  an  individual  matter  and  be  more 
earnest  and  ardent  workers,  and  there 
will  be  no  difficulty  in  collecting  these 
funds." 

Elder  Horace  S.  Ensign  then  sang 
the  sacred  solo,  "Jerusalem,"  and  his 
magnificent  baritone  voice  charmed  the 
large  and  appreciative  audience. 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  said: 

"I  have  been  informed  that  there  is 
an  indifference,  a  growing  indifference, 
noticeable  in  different  places  in  rela- 
tion to  Sunday  schools,  and  that  there 
is  not  that  interest  apparent  that  has 
been  and  that  should  be.  Of  course, 
every  movement  of  this  kind  must  be 
sustained  by  energy  and  by  those  who 
are  engaged  in  the  movement  taking 
an  interest  in  it  and  giving  it  their  at- 
tention and  bestowing  thought  and  la- 
bor upon  it.     Various  suggestions  have. 


been  made  as  to  how  this  shall  be 
remedied  and  what  steps  should  be 
taken  to  infuse,  shall  I  say  new  life, 
to  infuse  life  a  little  more  than  we 
have  'at  present,  into  every  department 
of  our  Sunday  schools.  I  need  not 
dwell  before  this  audience  upon  the  im- 
portance of  Sunday  school  work.  It  Pies, 
it  may  be  said,  at  the  foundation  of 
every  association  we  have  among  us. 
The  children  that  go  to  Sunday  school 
soon  become  young  men,  and  join  the 
Mutual  Improvement  associations;  and 
the  girls  grow  to  be  young  ladies  and 
they  have  their  functions  to  attend  to, 
and  they  are  more  efficient  in  the  path 
of  success  if  they  are  trained  in  the 
Sunday  school  as  they  should  be. 

"Now,  I  have  in  my  hand  some  mem- 
oranda regarding  Sunday  school  work, 
and  the  holding  of  a  convention  for 
Sunday  school  workers.     My  proposi- 
tion is  that  we  should  hold  a  Sunday 
school   convention     during   the  latter 
part  of  November  or  the  beginning  of 
December  next;   that  we  should  have 
this  not  too  near  the  Christmas  holi- 
days;   that   it   last   two   days,  Mon- 
day and  Tuesday;  that  three  meetings 
be  held  each  day;  that  the  Stake  dele- 
gates be  guests  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board  apportioned  among 
the  Sunday  schools  of  this  city  while 
they  stay  here;  that  badges  shall  be 
prepared  for  the  visitors,  for  we  want 
our  brethren  and  sisters  to  come  and 
visit  us  and  take  part  in  this  conven- 
tion; that  President  Angus  M.  Cannon 
and  his  counselors,  the  presidency  of 
this  Stake,  be  asked  to  give  the  pre- 
ceding Sunday  evening  to  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union,    and  that  the 
board   divide   the  visitors  among  th° 
various  wards  to    speak     on  Sunday 
school  matters  and    help    vivify  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  city.      I  trust 
that  the  presidency  of  this  Stake  will 
see  their  way  clear  to  permit  this  and 
that  it  will  not  interfere  with  anything 
they  may  have  in  mind.     The  speakers 
chosen  should  be  notified  as  soon  as 
possible,  to  give  them  time  to  prepare, 
so  that  in  the  event  of  any  being  un- 
able to  attend,  the  opportunity  may  be 
given  to  the  board    to    select  others. 
That  is,  if  some  are  selected  to  prepare 
for  this  and  tbey  cannot  fulfill  the 
expectation  or  requirement,  the  board 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


shall  receive  notice  in  time  that  others 
may  be  selected  for  the  purpose;  and  a 
committee  of  three  should  be  chosen 
from  the  members  of  the  board  to  ar- 
range the  details  of  the  convention  and 
take  charge  of  the  preparatory  work. 
Now  these  are  points  that  I  have  writ- 
ten, so  that  you  might  get  a  clear  idea 
of  the  object  of  the  move.  Here  is  a 
suggestive  program  £or  the  Sunday 
school  convention: 

"Monday  morning,  address  of  wel- 
come; the  objects  of  the  convention; 
the  Sunday  school  treatise;  Sunday 
school  teacher's  meeting;  how  to  reach 
delinquent  scholars. 

"Monday  afternoon,  subjects:  How  to 
best  maintain  order  in  the  school;  how 
to  use  the  Leaflets;  the  use  of  the 
Mickel  Fund:  home  reading  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Sunday  school. 

"Monday  evening,  how  to  grade  the 
Sunday  school;  the  relationship  of  the 
Church  to  the  Sunday  school;  the  Sun- 
day school  as  an  auxiliary  to  the 
home;  the  home  as  an  auxilary  to  the 
Sunday  school. 

"Tuesday  morning.  Kindergarten  and 
infant  classes  in  the  Sunday  school; 
punctuality — how  best  secured;  the 
Sunday  school  superintendent;  the 
Sunday  school  teacher. 

On  Tuesday  afternoon,  Sunday  school 
choirs  and  their  relationship  to  con- 
gregational singing;  lesson  on  the  pre- 
sentation of  the  authorities;  how  to 
conduct  Stake  Sunday  school  confer- 
ences; the  program  for  1899  Stake  con- 
ferences. 

"Tuesday  evening,  how  best  to  pre- 
pare a  Sunday  school  lesson;  the  Bible 
in  the  Sunday  school;  the  Book  of 
Mormon  in  the  Sunday  school;  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  Sacrament  in  the 
schools.  Each  meeting  to  be  opened 
by  a  half  hour's  singing  practice  of 
such  songs  as  will  be  recommended  to 
be  sung  at  the  1899  Sunday  school  con- 
ferences, and  such  to  be  closed  by  re- 
marks from  the  general  superintendent, 
and  his  assistants,  as  we  may  wish. 

"Now  these  subjects  we  would  like  to 
have  treated  upon.  If  the  committee 
can  sec-  where  some  improvements 
can  be  made  in  this,  of  course  I  shall 
be  in  favor  of  their  having  latitude  to 


change  or  to  suggest  additional  sub- 
jects." 

Elder  Seymour  B.  Young  moved  that 
the  suggestions  be  adopted  by  this 
meeting.  Carried.  General  Superin- 
tendent George  Q.  Cannon  then  ap- 
pointed Elders  George  Reynolds, 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays  and  George  D. 
Pyper  as  the  committee  to  arrange  the 
details  of  the  convention  and  take 
charge  of  the  preparatory  work. 

Continuing  General  Superintendent 
Cannon  said:  "I  would  like  you  to 
take  hold  of  this  energetically  and  let 
us  have  something  that  will  be  credit- 
able and  interesting, that  all  who  attend 
may  go  away  instructed  and  infused 
with  rife  and  with  a  determination  to 
lift  the  Sunday  school  and  make  it 
what  it  should  be.  This  committee  can 
take  the  necessary  steps  to  invite  such 
persons  or  brethren  and  sisters  from 
afar  as  they  may  deem  proper;  but  it 
is  a  general  invitation  and  we  would 
like  you  all  to  come,  and  we  will  do  the 
best  that  can  be  done  to  entertain  you, 
and  give  you  a  chance  to  teach  us  in  our 
wards.  Give  us  your  ideas  and  tell  us 
what  you  do,  so  that  we  may  get  a  mu- 
tual benefit  in  mingling  together  in  that 
manner. 

"I  may  say  that  Brother  Heber  J. 
Grant's  remarks  about  the  nickel  fund 
are  in  strict  accord  with  my  feelings.  I 
do  not  want  our  Sunday  schools  to  be- 
come begging  institutions,  or  to  become 
burdensome  to  our  children.  Do  not 
make  the  poor  children  who  cannot 
give  the  nickel  feel  badly.  Avoid  that, 
because  the  feelings  of  children  are 
very  delicate.  "We  should  not  do  any- 
thing that  would  make  them  feel  that 
they  are  inferior  in  any  way  to  any- 
body else.  I  hope  that  what  has  been 
said  will  be  remembered  by  all  the 
teachers  and  superintendents." 

Second  Assistant  Karl  G.  Maeser  said: 
"Members  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  board  have  occasionally  visited 
annual  Sunday  school  conferences 
when  they  have  felt  disappointed  in 
some  measure  in  not  getting  that  kind 
of  information  regarding  the  condition 
of  the  Sunday  schools,  which  they  de- 
sired, and  I  ^ave  been  requested,  there- 
fore, to  speak  in  regard  to  the  way  and 
manner   in   which    the  Sunday  school 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


61 


conferences  should  be  conducted.  Now, 
the  nature  and  object  of  an  annual 
Sunday  school  Stake  conference  is  three 
fold.  The  first  object  is  to  present  to 
all  the  Sunday  schools  in  that  stake 
pattern  and  model  exercises.  Upon  this 
subject  I  need  not  speak  now.  I  refer 
to  the  instructions  that  were 
given  upon  this  point  at  the 
last  April  Conference,  when  we 
met  here.  The  second  point  or  object 
of  our  annual  Sunday  school  Stake 
conference  is  to  give  the  visiting1  mem- 
bers of  the  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
am  opportunity  to  obtain  as  much  in- 
formation in  regard  to  the  condition  of 
the  Sunday  schools  in  the  Stake  as  time 
and  circumstances  will  permit.  That 
can  be  obtained  in  two  ways:  These 
visiting  members  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  Board  witness  the  class  exer- 
cises, according  to  the  instructions 
given  upon  that  subject  at  the  last 
April  Conference.  These  are  the  best 
class  exercises  upon  the  various  sub- 
jects that  have  been  selected  by  the 
Stake  superintendeney— the  best  class 
exercises  that  can  be  found  in  the 
Stake.  That  gives  the  visiting  breth- 
ren the  opportunity  of  seeing  the  con- 
dition, or  judging  of  the  condition  of 
the  Sunday  schools.  Eight  class  exer- 
cises of  the  best  kind  should  be  given, 
two  on  Saturday  morning  and  after- 
noon; two  Sunday  morning;  two  on 
Sunday  afternoon.  Then  there  is  al- 
ways something  from  a  primary,  first 
intermediate,  second  intermediate,  and 
theological,  class,  and  concert  recita- 
tions of  some  kind;  the  next  point  at 
which  we  can  get  our  information 
about  the  conditions  of  the  Sunday 
schools  comes  from  the  reports  of  the 
superintendents  of  the  different 
schools..  The  Sunday  School  Union 
Board  have  drawn  up  twenty-one 
points  upon  which  they  would  like  to 
have  answers  given.  A  copy  of  this 
will  be  sent  to  every  Sunday  school 
superintendent  throughout  Zion.  Each 
superintendent  should  prepare  himself 
for  this  and  not  come  up  and  talk  a 
'goody  goody'  talk  for  five  or  six 
minutes  or  more  and  then  sit  down 
without  saying  anything  about  his 
Sunday  school.  This  is  the  second 
point  that  gives  us  necessary  informa- 
tion in  regard  to  the  condition  of  the 


Sunday  school.  The  third  point  is  to 
give  the  visiting  members  of  the  Sun- 
day School  Union  Board  an  opportunity 
to  give  instructions.  These  instruc- 
tions are  based  upon  the  answers 
which  the  superintendents  give  in  re- 
porting their  Sunday  schools.  The  Sun^- 
d'ay  School  Union  members  will  note 
conditions  and  the  different  points, 
based  upon  the  observations  which 
.hey  have  found  and  made  during  the 
class  exercises,  which  is  the  second 
point  upon  which  we  can  base  our 
instructions.  The  third  is  the  ques- 
tions which  should  be  handed  in  by 
Sunday  school  officers  and  teachers, 
questions  which  have  arisen  on 
Sunday  school  work  and  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel,  which  are  expected  to  be 
taught  in  the  Sunday  schools.  Suppose, 
now,  we  get  six  of  these  questions  in- 
every  one  of  these  meetings,  then  we 
have  twenty-four  questions  handed  in 
during  the  conference,  twenty-four  im- 
portant Sunday  school  points  under 
consideration.  And  if  there  is  any 
point  that  we  may  not  have  the  author- 
ity or  capacity  to  answer,  we  will  take 
it  home  and  report  it  to  the  Sunday 
School  Union  Board,  where  it  will  be 
disposed  of;  and  if  the  board  has  not 
the  authority  to  answer  it,  our  general 
superintendent,  George  Q.  Cannon,  is  a 
member  of  the  First  Presidency,  and 
there  we  can  get  it  from  the  fountain- 
head,  and  you  get  your  answer  in  due 
time. 

"And  then  the  next  point  that  I  would 
like  to  have  called  your  attention  is, 
that  it  is  not  our  mission  to  talk  mere- 
ly to  the  comparatively  few  Sunday 
school  workers  that  are  attending  our 
annual  Sunday  school  Stake  confer- 
ences. It  is  not  very  likely  that  we 
shall  have  all  the  officers  and  teachers 
of  the  whole  Stake  present,  but  we  want 
to  reach  them  all.  We  are  not  coming 
merely  to  make  some  talk,  to  say  some 
nice  things,  etc.,  and  then  go  home 
again.  When  we  come  it  is  for  the  pur- 
pose of  putting  questions,  so  to  speak, 
alongside  the  Sunday  school  work,  how 
it  should  be  conducted,  so  that  when 
we  come  around  again  another  year,  all 
these  points  will  have  been  carried  out, 
at  least  as  nearly  as  possible,  and  then 
new  questions  can  be  put,  becausp  the 
Sunday  school  work  is  advancing  and 


62 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


progressing.     Think    of    what    it  was 
twenty  or  thirty  years  ago    and  com- 
pare it  with  today!    There  is  no  stand- 
ing still,  we  are  going  onward  continu- 
ally.  Now  it  is  impossible  for  every  one 
of  us  to  remember  all  the  points  that 
have  been  brought  up  during  a  confer- 
ence.  The  board,  therefore,  desires  that 
all  the  officers  and  teachers  should  come 
prepared  with  paper  and  pencil  and  let 
us  see  you  caking  notes,  as  we.  see  now 
in  this  and  in  every  semi-annual  con- 
ference, and  then  the  following  Sunday 
throughout    the    whole    Stake  there 
should  be  a  special  teachers'  meeting 
held,  for  the  benefit  of  those  that  have 
not  had  the  privilege  of  attending  the 
Stake    conference.     And    these  points 
that  have  been  made  during  the  confer- 
ence   should    be    brought  before  that 
teachers'  meeting  and  explained  there 
while    they    are    still    fresh  upon  the 
minds    of    those    who    were  present; 
but  if   j-ou   wait  three  or   four  weeks 
before  you  do  so,  you  forget  your  notes 
and  the  instructions  will  measurably 
fade  from    your    minds.  Therefore, 
care  should  be  taken  that  superintend- 
ents remind  the  officers  and  teachers 
before  the  conference  comes  off,  that 
they  ma.-"  come  prepared,  so  that  those 
who  are  present  may  take  down  all 
the  important  points,  and  afterwards 
bring  them  to  the  knowledge    of  all 
their  fellow  laborers  throughout  the 
Stake,  and  thus  the  work  of  the  Sun- 
day schools  may  go  on    for  another 
year,  better  and    better,  always  on- 
ward and  nearer  to  God  our  Eternal 
Father,    and    benefitting    the  youth 
whom  God  has  placed  into  our  keep- 
ing." 

Prof.  Bassett's  juvenile  class  then 
beautifully  sang  "In  May." 

Elder  Joseph  W.  Summerhays  said: 
When  the  year  1899  shall  have  passed, 
fifty  years  will  have  elapsed  since  the 
first  Sunday  school  was  organized  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints;  and  it  has  been  proposed 
that  we  commemorate  the  event  by 
holding  a  jubilee  throughout  the 
Church.  It  was  intended  that  some 
final  instructions  would  be  given  at 
this  conference,  but  as  the  fifty  years 
do  not  end  until  the  second  Sunday  in 


December,  there  is  plenty  of  time. 
The  committee  will  make  their  final  re- 
port  at  the  next  April  conference,  ft, 
the  meantime,  however,  Sunday 
school  superintendents  throughout  the 
Church  are  requested  to  forward  to 
the  general  secretary,  George  D. 
Pyper,  at  an  early  date,  the  history  of 
their  organizations  which  will  be  en- 
tered up  in  suitable  form  for  some 
future  day.  A  history  of  every  Sun- 
day school  and  of  every  Stake  organi. 
zation  is  desired. 

Elder  Joseph  M.  Tanner  said:  it 
very  frequently  happens  that  buildings 
are  not  sufficiently  warm  and  the  little 
Sunday  school  children  suffer  from 
cold  and  sometimes  contract  diseases. 
He  had  had  sufficient  opportunity  to 
observe  this  imperfect  condition  in  pro- 
viding for  the  convenience  and  comfort 
of  our  children.  If  the  janitor  is  ever 
in  doubt  as  to  the  necessity  of  warm- 
ing the  rooms,  that  doubt  should  be  re- 
solved in  favor  of  the  children  and  the 
buildings  be  warmed.  He  hoped  that 
superintendents  would  give  it  their  at- 
tention, and  see  that  as  the  cold  season 
comes  on  the  buildings  are  prop- 
erly warmed.  In  the  winter  time  when 
the  cold  is  severe,  there  is  but  little 
trouble,  but  it  is  during  the  fall  and 
spring  of  the  yeai  when  they  think 
they  can  get  along  without  fire,  that 
the  children  suffer  most. 

First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  Goddard  said  he  felt  very 
thankful  to  the  many  Stake  superin- 
tendents. Many  of  them  had  very 
hard  work  to  perform,  manr  miles  to 
travel  away  from  their  homes  almost 
every  Sunday  in  the  year,  visivlDg 
throughout  their  entire  Stakes.  "Goo. 
bless  those  men  and  every  other  hon- 
est, enthusiastic  worker  in  our  schools, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen." 

Professor  Stephens'  juvenile  class 
then  sang,  "Courage  Shall  Our  Watch- 
word Be,"  so  beautifully  that  it  had  to 
be  repeated.  The  class  also  repeated 
"We  Ever  Pray  for  Thee." 

The  conference    then    closed,  Eldei 
Seymour  B.  Young 
benediction. 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER, 
General  Secretary. 


