^  ,  

V  S 

NINETY-FOURTH 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Ghrist 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

3 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

October  5,  6  and  7 
1923 

With  a  Full  "Report  of 
all  the  Discourses 

Pnblished  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  o£  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

\'f  

HISTORY  OF 
the  CHURCH 


Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians 
and  published  by  the  Church .^D 


IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 


"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 


Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol.  3.50  " 
Full  Morocco — Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  6.00  " 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  Church  History  in  all  of 
the  activities  of  the  Church. 


SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOGUE  FREE 


Completing  the  First  Period. 


Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol. 


$2.50  postpaid 


44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Ninety-Fourth  Semi-Annual  Conference 

of 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

FIRST  DAY 

The  94th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
at  10  a.  m.,  Friday,  October  5,  1923. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards  *,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin 
J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :   Hyrum  G  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H.  Rob- 
erts, J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles 
H.  Hart  **. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and 
the  following  assistants,  Andrew  Jenson,  B.  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  were  well  represented  from  the  various  stakes 
of  Zion,  also  their  counselors,  patriarchs,  bishops  of  wards  and  their 
counselors  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers  representing  the 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood  and  men  and  women  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church. 

*Orson  F.  Whitney  was  absent  owing  to  illness,  and  David  O.  McKay, 
is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

**Levi  Edgar  Young  w0as  absent  owing  to  duties  at  the  University  of 
Utah,  but  present  at  subsequent  meetings. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Mission  presidents  as  follows  were  in  attendance:  B.  IT.  Rob- 
erts, Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  John  M. 
Knight,  Western  States  ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California  ;  Brigham  S. 
Young,  Northwestern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Joseph  Ouinney, 
Jr.,  Canada;  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple 
Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

All  the  seats  were  occupied  in  the  Tabernacle,  including  the  gal- 
lery, choir  stands  and  the  body  of  the  house.  People  from  all  parts 
of  the  Church  were  present. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang.  "We  thank  thee.  ()  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  E.  Magleby, 
president  of  the  South  Sevier  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  certainly  an  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  building  so  well  filled 
at  the  first  session  of  our  semi-annual  conference.  I  feel  truly  grateful 
to  the  Lord  for  his  blessings  to  us  as  a  people  during  the  past  year. 
Our  harvests  have  been  very  abundant.  There  is  a  feeling  of  con- 
tentment today  throughout  this  intermountain  country,  where  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  located,  that  is  very  different,  financially  speaking, 
from  what  it  was  two  years  ago  today. 

We  are  grateful  indeed  for  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  the 
people  during  the  past  two  years,  and  we  humbly  pray  that  they  may 
be  continued  upon  the  Saints,  that  the  land  may  yield  abundantly, 
and  that  peace  and  prosperity  may  continue  with  all  of  the  people  gf 
the  Lord.  Above  all  it  is  the  desire  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
and  the  General  Authorities  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  grow  in 
the  light,  the  knowledge,  and  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  which  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  again,  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  While  we  rejoice  in  the 
material  prosperity  of  the  people,  we  rejoice  more  in  the  growth  of  faith 
and  knowledge  and  the  love  of  God  and  a  desire  to  serve  him  on  their 
part. 

president's  visit 

During  the  past  six  months  we  have  had  the  privilege  of  receiv- 
ing a  visit  from  the  President  of  the  United  States,  who  spoke  from 
this  stand,  and  who  later  visited  the  Southern  part  of  our  State.  We  all 
know  that  he  has  since  been  called  from  this  life.  As  I  stated  here 
upon  one  occasion,  I  am  very  grateful  that  President  Harding  had  the 
opportunity  of  meeting  and  mingling  with  the  people  of  our  State  and 
of  the  adjoining  States,  where  so  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
located.    I  rejoiced  when  he  said  to  me  as  I  was  dining  with  him  in 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


the  Yellowstone  Park,  that  his  good  opinion  of  our  people  had  been 
enhanced  by  his  visit  among  them.  I  am  grateful  that  the  high  office 
lie  held  until  his  death  is  now  occupied  by  a  man  who  I  believe  with  all 
my  iieart  is  worthy  of  that  exalted  position.  I  desire,  and  I  am  sure 
that  al!  Latter-day  Saints  desire,  that  the  inspiration  that  comes  f  rom 
God  may  be  given  to  President  Coolidge  in  the  great  office  which 
he  holds,  and  that  wisdom  may  come  to  him  and  his  cabinet  in  directing 
the  affairs  of  our  beloved  country. 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  much  to  be  thankful  for.  We  are 
just  completing  in  Idaho  Falls  a  magnificent  hospital,  which  when 
completed  and  furnished,  will  cost  about  four  hundred  thousand  dol- 
lars, and  will  be  a  lasting  monument  to  the  integrity  of  our  people  and 
their  devotion  to  God.  Otherwise  we  would  not  have  had  the  means  to 
have  created  such  a  magnificent  structure  in  our  adjoining  state. 

TEMPLE  DEDICATED 

There  has  been  dedicated  a  temple  to  the  Most  High  God  in  a 
foreign  land,  the  first  that  has  ever  been  erected  outside  the  confines  or 
dependencies  of  the  United  States.  The  cost  of  the  Alberta  Temple, 
including  furniture,  equipment,  lawns,  grounds,  and  in  fact  the  build- 
ing complete,  is  seven  hundred  and  eighty-one  thousand,  four  hun- 
dred and  seventy-nine  dollars  and  ninety  cents — over  three  quarters  of  a 
million  dollars  expended  there  in  completing  a  house  to  God,  dedicated 
for  sacred  purposes.  Many  of  us  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  the 
sessions,  eleven  in  all,  at  each  of  which  the  dedicatory  prayer  was  read, 
and  remarks  were  made  upon  more  than  one  occasion  by  all  of  the 
General  Authorities  who  were  in  attendance,  by  many  of  the  officers 
of  the  Church,  and  by  many  of  the  people  who  were  there  as  visitors. 

I  rejoice  in  being  able  to  say  that  that  same  sweet,  peaceful,  God- 
like and  inspiring  spirit  that  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  enjoying 
at  the  dedication  of  the  Logan  Temple,  of  the  Manti  Temple,  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  and  the  one  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  was  present 
with  us  upon  all  of  the  occasions  when  we  met  in  the  Alberta  Temple. 
I  rejoice  that  there  was  a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
during  all  of  the  eleven  sessions  that  were  held  in  that  Temple,  and 
that  those  who  were  present  partook  of  that  spirit,  and  that  the  visitors 
and  the  local  people  were  satisfied  in  their  hearts  and  able  to  bear 
witness  that  the  Lord,  by  the  rich  outpourings  of  his  Spirit  was  with 
us  throughout  the  sacred  services. 

There  stands  out  in  my  mind  in  the  various  dedications  of  temples 
that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  attending,  a  feeling  of  gratitude  and 
thanksgiving  to  God  that  I  was  permitted  to  be  present  at  these  dedi- 
cations, and  to  partake  of  the  spirit  that  was  always  present.  It  is 
the  spirit  that  giveth  life,  while  the  letter  killeth ;  and  I  can  testify  that 
the  spirit  of  the  living  God  has  been  present  at  the  time  of  the  dedication 
of  each  and  all  of  the  temples  that  I  have  had  the  great  privilege  and 
honor  of  attending. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SPIRITS  ATTUNED 

If  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  live  the  gosped  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  our  spirits  are  perfectly  attuned,  so  that  we  really  partake  of 
the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  that  is  present  in  the  conference  gather- 
ings of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  I  know  that  no  faithful  Latter-day 
Saint  could  have  been  present  at  Logan,  at  Manti,  at  Salt  Lake  City, 
in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  or  in  Cardston  at  the  dedication  of  the  several 
temples  but  what  he  or  she  was  thrilled  by  the  spirit  of  God  that  was 
present  upon  all  of  those  occasions.  No  Latter-day  Saint  has  attended 
any  of  those  sessions  who  has  not  gone  away  with  an  increased  love 
of  God,  with  an  increased  desire  to  serve  God,  with  a  renewed  deter- 
mination to  live  more  faithful  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
that  we  have  espoused. 

It  call  to  mind  two  occasions  while  in  the  missionary  field  that 
were  remarkable  to  me,  for  they  compared  in  my  affections  and  in 
my  feelings  with  the  blessed  experiences  incident  to  the  dedication  of 
these  temples.  One  of  them  was  when  we  had  all  of  the  Elders  of  the 
British  mission  and  representatives  from  Europe  present  at  Bradford 
— several  hundred  missionaries,  and  we  had  a  spiritual  feast.  We  had 
what  would  be  called  "a  red  letter  day,"  spiritually.  The  Lord  God 
Almighty  blessed  us  abundantly  upon  that  occasion.  I  call  to  mind 
another  instance  in  Rotterdam,  where  many  of  the  missionaries  of  the 
Netherlands  mission,  including  Belgium  and  Holland,  and  many  from 
the  Swiss  and  German  mission  were  present.  Our  meeting  lasted  until 
midnight,  and  I  am  sure  that  no  one  of  the  many  elders  who  were 
assembled  there  was  the  least  bit  weary  because  of  the  length  of 
the  meeting.  There  were  tears  of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  the 
living  God  for  an  abiding  knowledge  and  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  shed  in  great  profusion  upon  that 
occasion.   The  fear  of  God  was  with  us,  and  we  rejoiced  exceedingly. 

CUMORAH  CONFERENCE 

On  the  22nd  day  of  last  month  we  had  the  privilege — four  of  the 
General  Authorities  from  this  city  and  one  who  was  located  at  Brooklyn 
as  the  president  of  the  Eastern  States  mission,  Brother  Brigham  H. 
Roberts — of  being  present  at  the  wonderful  conference  held  at  the 
Joseph  Smith  farm,  in  the  Sacred  Grove,  and  at  the  Hill  Cumorah, 
celebrating  the  one-hundredth  anniversary  of  Joseph  Smith's  first 
view  of  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  later  translated. 
A  very  remarkable  conference  for  three  days  was  held  there.  A  rich 
outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  was  experienced.  I  am  grate- 
ful, indeed,  to  President  Brigham  H.  Roberts  for  arranging  that  con- 
ference, for  I  am  free  to  confess,  that  in  the  multitude  of  duties  and 
responsibilities  resting  upon  me,  I  might  have  neglected  that  one- 
hundredth  anniversary.  I  feel  grateful  to  Brother  Roberts  that  he  did 
not  allow  it  to  pass  without  a  very  splendid  conference.  It  was  one 
that  each  and  every  person  who  attended  will  look  back  to  with  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


same  pleasure  and  joy  and  satisfaction  with  which  we  look  back  upon 
the  dedication  of  our  temples,  and  the  passing  of  other  mile-stones,  so  to 
speak,  in  the  history  of  this  Church. 

IN  THE  SACRED  GROVE 

I  remarked  in  the  first  meeting  that  we  were  sorry  beyond  expres- 
sion that  President  Roberts'  health  was  such  that  he  could  not  be 
present,  that  it  seemed  to  me  very  much  like  the  great  play  of  Hamlet 
with  Hamlet  left  out.  Brother  Roberts  had  prepared  a  very  remarkable 
program,  covering  many  episodes  and  historical  matters  in  connection 
with  the  rise  of  the  Church  through  the  one  hundred  years,  nearly,  of 
its  history;  and  there  were  no  words  with  which  we  could  convey 
adequately  our  regret  that  the  man  to  whom  we  were  indebted  for  all 
of  these  labors  could  not  take  a  more  active  part  than  he  did  because  of 
his  poor  health  upon  that  occasion;  and  yet  we  rejoiced  that  he  was 
able  to  lift  up  his  voice  on  several  occasions  during  that  conference,  and 
also  to  be  present  during  some  of  the  meetings,  although  his  health 
was  such  that  he  had  to  withdraw  from  a  few  of  them  before  their  close. 
I  have  expressed,  and  heard  others  who  were  present  express  sincere  and 
heartfelt  regret  that  the  prayer  delivered  by  Brother  Roberts  in  the 
Sacred  Grove  on  Sunday  morning,  Sept.  23,  was  not  taken  down  in 
writing.  I  cannot  remember  when  my  heart  has  been  more  stirred,  and 
when  I  have  had  my  affection  called  out  to  the  Lord  more  perfectly 
than  upon  the  occasion  when  Brother  Roberts  uttered  that  prayer  in  the 
Sacred  Grove,  where  the  Lord  God  Almighty,  and  where  Jesus  Christ 
our  Redeemer,  had  appeared  and  conversed  with  the  prophet,  or  more 
properly  speaking,  with  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  afterward  the  prophet 
of  the  living  God. 

FAITH  INCREASED 

We  know,  of  course,  that  the  world  doubts  that  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  spoke  in  that  grove  to  Joseph  Smith ;  but  there  is  no  Latter- 
day  Saint  living  who  has  kept  the  commandments  of  God,  and  has 
received  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  are  engaged  in  his 
work,  who  has  any  doubt  in  his  or  her  mind  that  the  Lord  God  Al- 
mighty, that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior 
of  mankind,  did  talk  to  that  boy.  And  those  of  us  who  had  the  privilege 
of  assembling  in  that  Grove  Sunday  morning,  Sept.  23,  and  partaking 
of  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper,  in  witness  to  God  of  our  remem- 
brance of  the  death  and  suffering,  and  of  the  atoning  blood  of  our 
Redeemer,  and  who  listened  to  the  inspiring  words  of  the  prayer  of  sup- 
plication by  Brother  Roberts,  had  our  fa'th  increased  and  strengthened, 
and  had  our  hearts  mellowed  in  gratitude  to  the  living  God  for  the  rich 
outpourings  of  his  Spirit  at  that  sacred  spot.  I  believe  that  if  I  had  more 
thoroughly  partaken  of  the  spirit  of  that  conference  prior  to  going  there, 
that  arrangements  would  have  been  made  to  have  had  hundreds  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  present.    It  was  only  a  very  short  time  prior  to  this 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


one-hundredth  anniversary  that  I  felt  impressed  that  I  ought  to  go  there. 
Last  May  I  thought,  perhaps  1  would  go,  but  scarcely  felt  the  full  inspi- 
ration of  it.  However,  just  before  the  conference  was  to  be  held,  the 
impression  came  to  me  that  it  would  be  a  very  serious  mistake  if  the 
man  whom  the  Lord  had  seen  fit  to  honor  in  placing  him  to  preside  over 
the  Church  of  Christ,  established  through  the  instrumentality  of  that 
boy  who,  one  hundred  and  three  years  ago,  conversed  with  God,  the 
Lather,  and  the  Savior,  and  one  hundred  years  ago  saw  for  the  first  time 
the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated,  did  not 
attend  that  celebration.  I  was  very  grateful  that  two  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  happened  to  be  in  the  East  at  the  time,  so  that  they  could 
also  be  there;  and  in  thinking  the  matter  over  I  felt  that  it  would  be 
very  fitting  indeed  for  one  of  the  blood  relatives  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  be  there  at  that  remarkable  celebration  of  the  one-hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  first  view  of  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  transcribed. 

NEW  INSPIRATION 

I  have  read  within  the  past  few  weeks  what  a  lot  of  rot  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is,  what  an  absurd,  ridiculous  book  it  is.  I  want  to  say 
that  it  was  my  pleasure  to  be  very  intimately  acquainted  with  the  late 
William  W.  Riter,  than  whom  there  are  few  men  in  all  the  Church 
who  were  greater  readers  and  greater  students  and  who  had  more 
analytical  and  thoughtful  minds.  The  last  time  that  I  heard  Brother 
Riter  speak  was  in  a  meeting  in  the  ward  where  I  reside.  He  was  a  man 
who  read  and  studied  a  great  deal.  Among  other  things  he  made  the 
statement,  which  was  greatly  to  my  surprise,  that  for  many  many  years 
he  had  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through  regularly  every  year.  I 
never  dreamed  that  he  would  take  the  time  to  do  so.  And  he  said  that 
he  found  new  inspiration,  new  uplifting  thoughts,  that  he  enjoyed  the 
book,  he  believed,  more  each  time  that  he  read  it  than  he  had  previously 
done.  He  said  that  nobody  could  find  anything  in  that  book  that  was 
not  calculated  to  uplift  mankind,  and  to  improve  them ;  that  there  was 
no  book  that  more  perfectly  inspired  a  love  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  by  its  contents,  than  did  the  Book  of  Mormon ; 
that  there  was  not  one  single  incident,  not  one  paragraph  in  that  whole 
book,  that  could  offend  the  most  sensitive  soul.  I  have  regretted  beyond 
expression  that  the  very  remarkable  and  splendid  sermon  that  he  gave 
that  night  was  not  taken  down  in  shorthand. 

THE  ARIZONA  TEMPLE 

I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  inform  the  people  that  the  work  on  the 
Arizona  temple  is  progressing  satisfactorily,  that  next  month  we  hope 
to  lay  the  corner-stone  and  deposit  some  records  in  that  stone,  and 
that  we  hope  in  the  near  future  to  have  that  building  completed  for 
sacred  ordinance  work. 

We  are  making  very  extensive  improvements,  almost  completed 
now,  giving  greater  facilities  for  taking  care  of  larger  numbers  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


/ 


people  in  the  Salt  Lake  temple.  Many  of  those  improvements,  however, 
have  had  to  be  made  underground  because  of  the  conditions  that  face  us. 
We  have  made  some  improvements,  also,  in  the  Logan  temple  for 
increased  capacity  in  doing  temple  work  there. 

There  have  been  changes  in  the  following  missions : 

Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson  has  been  made  the  president  of  the  Swedish 
mission,  succeeding  Gideon  E.  Hulterstrom. 

John  S.  Hansen  has  been  made  president  of  the  Danish  mission, 
succeeding  Carl  E.  Peterson. 

Angus  T.  Wright  has  been  made  president  of  the  New  Zealand 
mission,  succeeding  George  F.  Taylor. 

Ernest  LeRoy  Butler  has  been  made  president  of  the  Samoa  Mis- 
sion succeeding  John  Quincy  Adams. 

MISSIONARIES  SAFE 

Martin  A.  Robertson  has  been  appointed  to  succeed  Lloyd  Ivie 
as  president  of  the  Japan  mission.  Brother  Ivie  has  not  yet  returned. 
We  received  a  cablegram,  however,  from  him,  stating  that  our  mission- 
aries in  Japan  were  safe.  We  have  not  yet  had  a  letter  from  him  since 
the  terrible  catastrophe  of  earthquake  and  fire  in  that  land,  but  we  are 
grateful  indeed  to  the  Lord  that  all  of  our  missionaries  in  Japan  were 
preserved  during  the  awful  calamity  that  came  to  that  country. 

Albert  R.  Peterson  has  been  made  president  of  the  Norwegian  mis- 
sion, succeeding  August  S.  Schow. 

Fred  J.  Tadje  has  been  made  president  of  the  Swiss  and  German 
mission,  succeeding  Serge  F.  Ballif. 

Charles  S.  Hyde  has  been  made  president  of  the  Netherlands  mis- 
sion, succeeding  John  T.  Lillywhite. 

The  work  in  all  of  our  missions  is  progressing  very  favorably 
indeed.  We  are  thankful  for  the  splendid  labors  being  performed  in 
all  of  the  missions  throughout  the  world.  The  one  cry  that  comes 
to  us  from  every  mission  is:  Send  us  more  elders.  The  people  are 
becoming  interested  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  "We  could  use  twice 
as  many  elders,"  is  the  word  that  comes  from  many  of  the  missions. 

IMPRESSIVE  SLOGAN 

The  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of  the  Church  have  aji 
impressive  slogan  this  year.  They  stand  for  spiritual  growth  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  through  family  and  secret  prayers.  I  wish  to  com- 
mend the  young  people  for  adopting  this  slogan.  I  am  convinced  that 
one  of  the  greatest  and  one  of  the  best  things  in  all  the  world  to  keep 
a  man  true  and  faithful  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  is  to 
supplicate  God  secretly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  guidance 
of  His  Holy  Spirit.  I  am  convinced  that  one  of  the  greatest  things 
that  can  come  into  any  home  to  cause  the  boys  and  girls  in  that  home  to 
grow  up  in  a  love  of  God,  and  in  a  love  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
is  to  have  family  prayer,  not  for  the  father  of  the  family  alone  to  pray, 
but  for  the  mother  and  for  the  children  to  do  so  also,  that  they  may 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


partake  of  the  spirit  of  prayer,  and  be  in  harmony,  be  in  tune,  to  have 
the  radio,  so  to  speak,  in  communication  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  believe  that  there  are  very  few  that  go  astray,  that  very  few  lose  their 
faith,  who  have  once  had  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and  who  never 
negiect  their  prayers  in  their  families,  and  their  secret  supplications  to 
God.  I  am  grateful  for  this  slogan.  I  am  also  grateful  that  in  addition 
to  this  slogan  die  fifty  thousand  or  more  of  our  young  ladies  are  being 
requested  that  thev  shall,  during  the  next  six  mo  llhs,  observe  rigidly 
and  strictly  the  \Vord  of  Wisdom. 

If  you  or  I  possessed  a  letter  from  the  late  President  Warren  G. 
Harding,  I  am  sure  that  we  weald  prize  it,  that  we  would  hold  ii  as  a 
keepsake  all  the  days  of  our  lives,  and  that  we  would  leave  it  as  a  legacy 
for  our  posterity — a  communication  from  a  man  that  had  been  honored 
by  being  the  President  of  our  great  country.  Do  we  ever  stop  to  think 
that  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  the  Maker  of  all  that  we  see  in  this 
great  universe,  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  the  Father  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  the  spirit  and  in  the  flesh,  has  communicated  with  us, 
that  he  has  given  us  counsel  and  advice  such  as  will  lead  us  back  into 
his  presence,  that  will  give  us  vigor  of  body  and  of  mind? 

A  MATTER  OF  REGRET 

And  yet  there  are  hundreds,  there  are  thousands  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  whom  the  Lord  God  Almighty  has  given  a  testimony  and 
a  knowledge  that  he  lives,  a  knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  a  knowl- 
edge that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and 
who  are  able  to  bear  that  witness  and  to  testify  of  it  at  home  and 
abroad,  who,  when  the  Lord  God  Almighty,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and 
earth,  tells  them  what  is  good  for  them,  physically  and  spiritually,  and 
writes  them  a  letter,  neglect  to  pay  any  attention  to  it.  I  am  sorry  to 
say  that  today  there  are  many  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints — some  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  leading  men  and  women 
in  this  Church,  who  are  having  social  gatherings  and  who  think  that  it 
shows  a  spirit  of  liberality  and  of  broadness  to  drink  wine  and  to  have 
their  tea  and  coffee  and  to  play  their  cards,  and  to  do  those  things  that 
we  have  been  taught  are  not  good  for  us.  I  am  going  to  read  to  you 
a  letter  from  the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints : 

"Revelation  given  through  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  at  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  February  27,  1833."  Ninety  long  years  ago  since  the  Lord  wrote 
this  letter  to  you  and  to  me,  and  to  every  man  and  woman  and  child  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  What  is  there  in  all  the  world  so  valuable  as  wisdom  ?  Noth- 
ing. The  one  thing  of  all  others  that  King  Solomon  sought  after  was 
wisdom.  "Abstinence  from  wine,  strong  drink,  tobacco  and  hot  drinks 
enjoined — moderation  in  the  eating  of  meat — wholesome  foods — prom- 
ises to  those  who  live  according  to  these  precepts. 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests,  as- 
sembled in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  and  also  in  Zion. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


GIVEN  WITH  PROMISE 

"To  be  sent  greeting:  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation 
and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God,"  in  a  letter 
telling  you  telling  me,  the  will  of  God  "in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  Saints 
in  the  last  days — 

"Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,"  don't  forget  that  promise,  "adapted 
to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  Saints,  wh'o  are  or  can  be 
called  Saints. 

"Behold  verily  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of 
wisdom  by  revelation — 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you, 
behold  it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only  in  assembling 
yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

"And  behold,  this  should  be  wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of  the  vine, 
of  your  own  make. 

"And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing  of 
your  bodies." 

I  remember  hearing  the  most  eloquent  address  that  I  heard  dur- 
ing all  of  the  campaign  for  prohibition  of  liquor  delivered  by  Dr. 
Geisel,  a  lady  who  was  connected  with  the  Battle  Creek  Sanitarium  in 
Michigan,  and  she  stated  that  there  were  scores  and  hundreds  of  doc- 
tors that  had  become  absolutely  convinced  from  their  scientific  investi- 
gation, from  their  personal  experience,  that  alcohol  or  strong  liquors 
were  absolutely  worthless  as  medicine  when  taken  internally,  but  that 
they  were  good  for  the  washing  of  the  body,  that  there  was  a  stimulat- 
ing and  invigorating  effect  that  those  who  were  sick  enjoyed  by  washing 
their  bodies  with  alcohol. 

FAVORABLY  IMPRESSED 

I  remember  after  hearing  her  remarks  in  the  Twenty-fifth  ward 
Sunday  school  that  morning,  that  I  asked  permission  to  ride  to  the 
depot  with  her  in  the  automobile.  She  had  a  watch  lying  in  front  of  her 
and  agreed  to  talk  within  ten  minues  of  train  time.  In  going  to  the 
train  I  said :  "Dr.  Geisel,  I  am  delighted  to  hear  that  your  investigations 
in  America,  France  and  Russia  regarding  alcohol  confirm  what  we 
knew  seventy-five  years  ago  through  a  revelation  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet."  And  I  told  her  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and 
she  said  she  was  coming  back  here  some  time  to  spend  an  entire  sum- 
mer vacation,  that  she  had  found  so  many  remarkable  things  in  our 
faith  and  our  doctrines,  that  she  wanted  to  investigate  them. 

"And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with  judg- 
ment and  skill. 

"And  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath  ordained  for 
the  constitution,  nature,  and  use  of  man — 

"Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season  thereof; 
all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

"Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving;  nevertheless  they  are  to  be  used 
sparingly ; 

"And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times  of 
winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine." 

TEACHINGS  CONFIRMED 

I  remember  recently  reading'  that  many  of  the  doctors  had  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  excessive  use  of  meat  was  one  of  the  great  causes 
of  cancer,  and  of  many  other  of  the  diseases  that  are  destroying  the 
human  race.  Year  by  year  the  inspiration  comes  to  men  through  study 
and  research  to  confirm,  one  by  one,  the  teachings  that  came  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  living  God  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  of  this  last 
dispensation. 

All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff  of 
life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of  heaven, 
and  all  wild  animals  than  run  or  creep  on  the  earth. 

"And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine  and 
excess  of  hunger. 

"All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine;  that 
which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground — 

"Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the  horse, 
and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  barley  for  all  useful  animals,  and  for 
mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grain." 

Now,  O  ye  Saints,  listen  to  the  promise  of  the  Lord  God  Almighty 
in  this  letter  written  to  you  as  to  what  shall  he  your  heritage  if  you 
obey  these  simple  words  of  wisdom : 

"And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
to  their  bones ; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

'And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. .Amen." 

Let  me  read  the  last  verse  once  more : 

"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

BENEFIT  OF  OBEDIENCE 

In  the  same  book  you  will  find  it  recorded  that  there  is  a  law  irre- 
vocably decreed  in  heaven,  before  the  foundations  of  the  world,  upon 
which  every  blessing  is  predicated,  and  when  we  receive  a  blessing  we 
receive  it  because  we  fulfil  the  law  upon  which  the  blessing  is  predi- 
cated. I  wish  to  bear  my  witness  here  that  I  believe  with  all  my  heart 
and  soul  that  if  I  had  not  obeyed  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  1  had  not 
kept  these  commandments,  that  I  would  not  be  standing  before  you 
this  day  as  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  believe  that  I  would  not  be  alive  but  for  having  obeyed  this 
commandment,  but  for  having  fulfilled  the  law  which  was  irrevocably 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


decreed  before  the  foundation  of  the  world,  whereby  I  was  entitled  to 
live. 

We  have  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation  revealed  to  us — temporal  salvation,  spiritual  salvation. 
We  have  the  gospel  that  will  bring  to  us  life  eternal  in  the  presence  of 
God  our  Father,  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer,  and  of  our  loved  ones 
who  have  gone  before,  who  have  been  faithful. 

REJOICE  IN  TESTIMONIES 

I  thank  the  Lord  God  Almighty  for  the  faith,  for  the  integrity,  for 
the  devotion  to  him  and  the  gospel  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  lives  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  they  were  true,  even  to  the  clay  of  their  martyrdom. 
I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  at  the  Hill  Cumorah,  at  the  Joseph  Smith 
farm,  and  at  the  Sacred  Grove,  regard' ng  these  men.  I  rejoice 
in  the  marvelous  integrity  and  devotion  to  God  of  Brigham  Young 
in  the  days  of  apostasy,  in  the  days  when  murder  was  in  the  hearts  of 
many  who  had  once  been  Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  that  when  men 
said  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  fallen  prophet,  Brigham  Young  was  as 
true  as  steel,  and  would  have  given  his  life  at  any  time  for  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  accomplishments  of  Brigham 
Young. 

I  rejoice  in  the  integrity  and  devotion  to  God  of  John  Taylor,  of 
Wilford  Wodruff,  of  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  with 
whom  I  was  intimately  associated  "for  forty-one  years  this  identical 
month.  I  know  the  hearts  of  these  men.  I  knew  the  inmost  desires  of 
their  lives,  that  which  they  desired  most  to  accomplish,  and  I  know 
that  every  one  of  these  men  loved  God  with  all  his  heart,  and  with  all 
his  being,  that  they  all  loved  the  people  of  God,  and  that  the  one  and  only 
thing  in  their  heart's  desire  above  everything  else  in  the  world,  was  the 
advancement  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  spread  of  it,  that  men 
who  knew  not  the  truth  might  learn  and  accept  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation. 

LOYAL  TO  COUNTRY 

I  know  that  their  thoughts,  their  prayers,  their  ambitions,  were  all 
for  the  good  of  this  people  and  their  advancement  spiritually  and  mor- 
ally, intellectually  and  patriotically.  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that 
no  men  ever  graced  the  footstool  of  God  who  were  more  loyal  to  their 
country,  who  believed  more  firmly  that  the  Lord  God  Almighty  inspired 
the  men  who  brought  freedom  to  this  country  under  George  Washing-, 
ton  and  inspired  the  men  who  wrote  the  Constitution  of  our  beloved 
country.  I  thank  God  for  these  men,  and  with  all  the  power  of  my 
being  I  pray  God  that  I,  having  been  honored  in  my  weakness  and  my 
lack  of  strength  in  comparison  to  them,  may  lead  this  people  as  they  did, 
in  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  leads  to  life  eternal.  I  desire  to 
read  just  two  paragraphs  from  the  prayer  given  at  the  dedication  of  the 
Alberta  temple: 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"We  thank  thee,  O  Father,  for  the  knowledge  which  we  possess,  that  thou 
dost  live,  and  that  thy  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and  our  Savior,  and 
that  thy  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God.  And,  O  Father,  may  we  ever  be  true  and  faithful  to  the,  gospel  of  thy 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  revealed  through  thy  servant  Joseph. 

"We  especially  pray  thee,  O  Father  in  heaven,  to  bless  the  youth  of  thy 
people  in  Zion  and  in  all  the  world.  Shield  them  from  the  adversary  and  from 
wicked  and  designing  men.  Keep  the  youth  of  thy  people,  O  Father,  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  path  that  leads  to  thee,  preserve  them  from  the  pitfalls  and 
snares  that  are  laid  for  their  feet.  O  Father,  may  our  children  grow  up  in  the 
nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Give  unto  them  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work  as  thou  hast  given  it  unto  us,  and  preserve  them  in 
purity,  and  in  the  truth." 

And  I  say  unto  you,  O  fathers  in  Israel ;  if  you  will  set  an  example 
by  being  honest  before  God  in  the  payment  of  your  tithes,  if  you  will 
observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  you  will  observe  your  family  and  your 
secret  prayers,  God  will  give  you  strength  to  preserve  the  youth  of 
Zion  as  mentioned  in  this  supplication. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  pour  out  upon  us  richly  his  Holy  Spirit 
during  this  conference,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  was  just  thinking  of  that  part  of  the  hymn  that  we  have  been 
singing  which  ,says :  "What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  he  has  said  ? 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled."  I  feel  filled  to  overflow- 
ing with  joy  and  satisfaction  and  testimony  concerning  the  great  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  rejoice  in  the  strength  and  power,  phy- 
sically and  spiritually,  which  is  possessed  by  our  beloved  President, 
Heber  J.  Grant.  I  can  bear  my  humble  testimony  to  the  truth  and  in- 
spiration of  the  wonderful  discourse  to  which  we  have  listened,  and  in 
saying  that,  I  but  feebly  express  the  sentiments  of  this  great,  congre- 
gation. 

THE  SPIRIT  AND  POWER  OF  GOD  WITH  THE  CHURCH. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Lord  my  God.  I  am  filled  with  gratitude  in  my 
soul  today  for  all  his  mercies  to  me,  and  I  can  see  many  of  those  things 
which  will  be  in  the  day  when  "the  veil  o'er  the  earth"  will  be  not  only 
"beginning  to  burst,"  but  when  it  shall  burst  over  all  the  earth,  clothed 
with  the  light  of  God,  blessed  with  the  presence  of  its  Redeemer  and 
King,  and  all  things  be  subdued  unto  him  who  is  our  living  head. 
God  be  praised  this  morning  for  the  things  that  we  have  heard  from 
the  leader  of  this  people.  It  is  evident  that  the  Lord  is  with  him,  as 
he  has  been  for  many,  many  years,  and  that  the  same  spirit  and  power 
brought  to  earth  from  on  high  by  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  here  today,  and  have  been 
with  the  Church  from  the  time  of  its  organization  down  to  the  present 
moment. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  13 


THE  SUCCESSORS  TO  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH  MEN  OF  GOD 

Those  great  men  who  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
presidency  of  this  Church  were  indeed  men  of  God.  I  was  acquainted 
with  them  all  personally,  as  President  Grant  has  testified  concerning  his 
acquaintance.  I  knew  the  men ;  I  knew  their  private  feelings,  their  in- 
most souls.  I  was  familiarly  acquainted  with  each  of  them,  and  shared 
the  joy  of  their  confidence  and  their  good  will,  and  the  manifestations 
of  God  to  them  in  private  as  well  as  in  public.  I  can  testify,  as  I  am 
willing  to  do  to  all  the  world,  that  they  were  indeed  men  of  God,  clothed 
upon  with  the  power  of  that  holy  Priesthood  restored  to  earth  in  the 
last  days  through  divine  messengers  sent  from  on  high  to  introduce  the 
work  of  the  last  dipensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  I  am  very  thank- 
ful to  be  here  this  morning.  It  is  better  than  anything  else  I  can 
think  of,  to  be  here  with  this  great  congregation  and  listen  to  the  words 
of  inspiration  that  have  come  to  us  today.  I  rejoice  in  the  past,  I  feel 
full  of  happiness  and  peace  for  the  present,  and  my  soul  is  filled  with 
joyful  anticipation  because  of  the  future.  I  know  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  and  I  also  know  a  little  of  what  it  will  be  when  tha't  vieil  of 
the  covering  is  taken  away,  and  the  light  of  the  Lord  shines  out  from 
above,  from  the  Most  High,  and  the  earth  is  redeemed  and  clothed  upon 
with  his  glory  and  his  power.  I  am  thankful  for  this  testimony  in  my 
heart.  I  know  it  has  come,  not  from  any  great  effort  of  mine,  any 
great  abilities  or  learning  of  mine,  but  by  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  me. 
I  know  that  he  has  been  with  me  all  the  days  of  my  ministry  in  this 
Church.  I  was  ordained  an  elder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  according  to  a  certificate  which  I  carry  with  me,  on 
the  sixth  day  of  January,  1851,  and  from  that  time  to  the  present  I  have 
felt  that  I  am  an  Elder  in  Israel,  a  servant  of  the  Most  High  God, 
that  I  was  dedicated  to  his  service  anywhere  and  everywhere  and  at  all 
times,  under  all  circumstances  and  seasons,  in  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth;  and  I  have  realized  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  supporting  me  in 
all  the  efforts  I  have  been  able  to  make  for  the  furtherance  of  this  great 
divine  cause  in  the  world.  I  know  that  the  Lord  is  with  this  people, 
that  he  has  been  with  them  from  the  beginning,  that  he  has  been  with 
those  who  have  been  called  to  lead  them  from  the  beginning,  and  that 
he  will  continue  so  to  do.  1  know  that  he  will  be  with  us,  every  one 
of  us,  if  we  will  carry  out  the  things  that  have  been  taught  to  us  this 
morning.  They  are  not  new"  by  any  means ;  delivered  in  a  new  way, 
perhaps,  and  in  an  impressive  manner  that  comes  right  down  into  our 
souls,  but  they  are  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  have  been  delivered  to'  this 
people  from  the  time  of  the  organization  of  the  Church;  and  the  work 
has  been  gradually  developing,  getting  bigger,  stronger,  mightier,  hav- 
ing more  influence  in  the  earth. 

PLEASURE  IN  THE  PROGRESS  OF  TEMPLE  WORK. 

When  we  hear  these  glad  reports  concerning  the  spread  of  the  work 
in  foreign  lands,  it  gives  us  pleasure  and  gives  us  courage  to  still  press 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


forward  and  do  our  part  in  the  great  cause.  The  building  of  these 
temples  which  have  been  dedicated  to  the  Lord  is  a  wonderful  mark 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  of  its  promise  to  us.  The  building  of  the  Al- 
berta temple — some  will  call  it  the  Cardston  temple,  or  the  Canadian  tem- 
ple, but  it  is  the  Alberta  temple,  that  is  the  name  of  it — the  building  of  that 
structure  upon  English  soil  is  an  indication  to  us  of  what  the  Lord  will 
do.  The  temples  will  not  be  confined  altogether  to  Zion,  even  though 
that  may  cover  both  North  and  South  America.  The  work  will  spread 
forth  in  other  lands  as  the  veil  o'er  the  covering  continues  to  burst. 
The  spiritual  and  temporal,  the  heavenly  and  earthly,  will  be  closer,  in 
being  joined  together,  and  the  time  will  come  when  we  shall  have  plenty 
of  work  to  do,  in  the  millennial  season,  the  one  thousand  years,  the  one 
"day  of  the  Lord,"  when  we  get  communications  from  the  priesthood 
behind  the  veil  to  the  priesthood  in  the  earth,  in  the  temples  that  will 
be  erected.  In  those  holy  conversations  we  read  about  in  the  revela- 
tions of  God,  concerning  the  building  of  a  house  to  him,  that  day  is  not 
very  far  off,  as  the  Lord  sees  things.  It  may  be  quite  a  while  as  we 
see  them,  but  they  are  real,  and  that  which  God  has  promised  concern- 
ing them  will  surely  come  to  pass.  The  wonderful  work  that  is  going 
on  in  these  temples  now  is  but  an  indication  of  that  which  is  to  come. 
The  building  of  the  temple  in  Hawaii,  shows  that  we  go  to  the  heathen, 
as  we  have  been  invited  to  do  sometimes  by  £>ur  good  Christian  friends, 
going  to  the  Islands  of  the  sea,  fulfils  the  command  of  the  Lord.  These 
things  will  be  increased  and  multiplied,  and  temples  will  be  built  in  the 
north  and  in  the  south,  in  the  east  and  the  west,  so  that  all  that  needs 
to  be  done  in  the  great  work  of  redemption  for  the  dead,  as  well  as  for 
the  living,  will  be  accomplished,  and  brought  about  just  as  it  has  been 
revealed  by  the  prophets. 

OUR  DUTY  TODAY. 

The  great  thing  for  us  Latter-day  Saints  today,  gathered  here  in 
conference,  representing  the  people  that  could  not  get  here — for  this 
is  a  representative  body  in  conference  assembled,  representing  the  Saints 
in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion — the  thing  for  us  to  do  is  to  take  the  word  of 
the  Lord  today,  to  do  that  which  the  Lord  requires  of  us,  obey  his  com- 
mandments, walk  in  obedience  to  his  sayings,  keep  in  the  line  of  duty,  in 
the  strait  and  narrow  way,  and  not  go  off  to  the  side,  to  the  right  or 
to  the  left,  and  not  get  mixed  up  in  those  entangling  alliances  which 
some  of  our  people  enjoy  with  the  institutions  of  the  world.  I  don't 
want  to  say  one  word  against  those  institutions  that  are  established 
in  the  world,  in  the  way  of  charity  or  literature  or  science,  real  sci- 
ence, or  art,  or  anything  that  is  called  religion,  even  though  it  be  not 
much  of  a  religion,  but  beneficial  in  its  sphere,  I  would  not  say  a  word 
against  them.  But  for  us,  what  should  we  do,  elders  in  Israel,  ser- 
vants of  the  living  God,  called  of  God  in  the  latter-days  to  hold  this 
divine  authority  to  preach  the  gospel  to  all  the  world,  to  every  nation 
and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people?  That  is  what  these  temples  sig- 
nify to  me.    This  was  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  the  beginning.  The 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


15 


gospel  was  brought  from  heaven  to  earth  for  all  the  world,  and  it  is  our 
business  to  see  that  it  goes  there  as  far  as  we  can. 

WE  BELIEVE  IN  JESUS  CHRIST;  THIS  IS  HIS  CHURCH 

Now.  what  is  our  duty?  Our  duty  is  to  walk  in  the  straight  way, 
and  find  out  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  do  it  as  far  as  we  have  power,  in 
the  weakness  of  our  human  bodies,  teach  it  to  our  children,  bring  them 
up  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  keep  them  in  the  path.  It  is  a  sad  thing 
when  our  people  stray  off  into  organizations  that  are  not  in  conson- 
ance with  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  his  ways.  It  is  not  a  good  thing  to 
be  tangled  up  with  them,  my  brethren.  It  is  good  to  stay  in  this 
Church.  When  we  came  into  it  we  were  baptized  into  it  over  head 
and  ears,  and  feet,  the  whole  of  us,  body  and  spirit.  The  soul  of  man 
went  into  the  water  of  baptism,  and  so  we  belong  to  the  Lord.  We 
took  upon  us  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer;  we  belong  to 
him,  and  he  purchased  us  by  the  price  of  his  own  blood.  To  say  that 
we  do  not  believe  in  Christ  is  so  ridiculous  that  we  need  not  say  any- 
thing in  trying  to  confute  it.  This  is  his  Church ;  he  started  it ;  he  has 
continued  with  it ;  he  is  with  it  today.  The  Spirit  manifested  today 
in  the  leader  of  the  Church  is  the  Spirit  of  Christ.  Don't  you  know 
that?  I  am  sure  you  do.  I  need  not  say  anything  on  that.  You  feel 
it  not  only  "in  your  bones,"  but  in  the  .soul  of  you,  the  spirit  of  you.  It 
is  within  you.  You  feel  that  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  with  us  here 
today,  and  has  been  with  the  president  through  all  his  administration, 
and  he  is  growing  with  the  years.  He  is  getting  younger  in  mind  and 
body,  and  he  is  full  of  light  and  life  and  power,  and  I  am  proud  of  be- 
ing associated  with  him.  Thank  God  for  the  privilege.  I  thank 
God  for  being  a  member  of  this  Church.  It  is  a  wonderful  privilege. 
It  is  a  great  blessing  from  on  high,  to  be  baptized  into  Christ,  to  try  and 
put  on  Christ  in  life  and  labor  and  spirit  and  energy  and  power ;  to  be 
with  him  and  to  feel  that  I  can  approach  God  the  Father  through  and 
by  him  and  have  fellowship  with  him,  as  well  as  with  my  brethren 
and  sisters  in  the  Church.  It  is  by  that  Spirit  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  me  and  guided  me  through  the  years  that  have  passed,  and  I 
bless  and  praise  and  glorify  his  holy  name  in  the  congregation  today. 

ZIOX  WILT.  PROSPER  REGARDLESS  OF  THE  EFFORTS  OF  HER  OPPONENTS 

I  know  that  this  work  will  go  on  and  I  know  that  it  has  prospered 
in  the  past,  in  this  respect  that  I  am  about  to  mention,  and  will  go  on  in 
the  future.  The  Lord  promised  that  all  that  is  formed  against  Zion 
shall  not  only  not  prosper,  but  it  shall  be  turned  to  the  welfare  and 
benefit  of  Zion.  Now  be  assured  that  this  will  be  the  case;  that  the 
present  efforts  being  made  by  those  who  are  not  of  us,  but  who  are 
against  us,  that  whatever  they  may  do,  whatever  they  may  say,  will  be 
turned  around  in  the  sequel,  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  salvation  of 
men,  through  and  by  this  Church  and  its  priesthood.  That  is  as  sure 
as  that  the  sun  rises  in  the  morning  after  it  has  appeared  to  set  at 
night.    This  work  will  go  on  and  on,  and  we  will  see  it,  if  we  live 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


long  enough  on  the  earth,  and  I  suppose  we  will  if  we  get  away.  I 
don't  know  how  much  we  shall  see  whem  we  get  out  of  the  body,  but  we 
will  see  a  good  deal  more  than  we  can  while  we  are  in  the  body.  But 
we  will  see  that  this  promise  is  fulfilled.  All  these  schemes,  these  plots 
and  plans,  and  all  these  ridiculous  efforts  that  are  being  made  will 
show  up  to  be  so  ridiculous,  so  feeble,  so  false,  that  they  will  turn 
around  to  the  good  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  to  the  glory 
of  God  and  the  salvation  of  men.  So  do  not  be  discouraged  by  any- 
thing that  may  be  said  against  the  Church  or  its  leaders.  It  has  been 
said  from  the  beginning,  right  from  the  start.  Before  Joseph  Smith 
go,t  even  direction  to  organize  the  Church,  he  was  assailed  by  the  most 
religious  people  in  his  vicinity.  But  the  things  which  they  said  against 
him  eventually  turned  around  to  strengthen  him  in  the  minds  of  decent 
and  reasonable  and  religious  people  and  so  will  it  be  in  the  future.  We 
need  not  be  concerned  about  that.  Only  let  us  be  concerned  with  our 
own  lives  and  labors,  and  the  performance  of  our  duties. 

WE  NEED  NOT  BE  CONCERNED.  OUR  DUTIES  ARE  PLAIN. 

They  are  very  plain.  They  are  set  down,  most  of  them,  in  black 
and  white.  We  can  read  them  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  wish 
all  our  elders,  priests,  teachers  and  deacons,  would  become  fully 
acquainted  with  Section  107  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Many  of 
them  do  not  know  much  about  it.  It  is  there  in  the  book  we  read,  and 
all  the  revelations  contained  therein  have  the  ring,  in  my  ears,  of  the 
gospel  of  the  light  and  love  of  God,  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion. Now  my  brethren,  let  us  be  acquainted  with  what  the  Lord  has 
revealed,  and  take  it  into  our  souls.  Let  us  realize  and  feel  that  we 
are  a  part  of  this  work,  a  true  and  living  and  active  working  part. 
Every  man  called  to  hold  the  Priesthood  is  called  of  God  to  work  in  thir 
great  Latter-day  cause,  that  God  has  revealed,  and  if  we  will  take  the 
advice,  received  by  us  this  morning  from  our  President,  whose  right 
it  is  to  direct  us,  we  will  be  going  right  all  the  time.    I  am  sure  of  that. 

CENTENNIAL  CELEBRATION  OF  THE  VISITS  OF  MORONI 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  great  manifestation  of  his  power  on  the 
Hill  Cumorah  and  in  the  Sacred  Grove.  I  have  been  to  those  places 
and  I  felt  the  importance  of  the  things  that  were  done  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  the  Hill  Cumorah,  which  the  brethren  visited,  on  the  crown  of 
which  they  held  a  splendid  meeting,  participated  in  by  a  great  many 
people  not  of  our  faith.  This  meeting  was  commemorative  of  one  of 
the  most  wonderful  events  that  have  ever  occurred  in  this  world.  The 
first  thing  of  importance  in  the  revelations  of  God  in  the  latter-days 
was  the  manifestation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  in  that  Sacred  Grove 
to  the  boy  Joseph.  The  next  in  importance,  and  as  an  opening  of  the 
work  of  the  last  days  was  the  visits  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  in  his  bedroom.  When  being  reminded  in  his  soul  of  the  import- 
ance of  the  message  he  had  already  received,  and  feeling  that  he  had 
not  been  faithful  and  true  to  the  spirit  of  it  in  his  own  life,  although 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE  17 


he  had  not  done  anything  of  very  great  consequence  that  was  wrong, 
he  humbly  confessed  to  God — and  by  this  you  shall  know,  the  Lord  says, 
when  a  man  repents,  "behold,  he  will  confess  his  sins  and  turn  away 
therefrom."  That  is  real  repentance.  Joseph  repented,  and  while  in  this 
mood,  this  angelic  visitation  came.  I  understand  it  to  some  extent.  I 
have  had  what  I  call  dreams,  some  people  call  them  by  other  names.  I 
can  see  that  gathering  of  light  in  that  chamber  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  can  see  the  form  of  the  Angel  Moroni  appearing  right  in 
that  light,  not  standing  on  the  floor  but  above  the  floor,  so  that  Joseph 
could  see  him  and  the  beautiful  glory  that  surrounded  his  personality, 
and  I  bear  testimony  that  he  was  a  real  personage,  that  he  did  come  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph.  What  he  revealed  has,  in  a  very  large  measure, 
been  fulfilled,  and  that  which  has  not  been  fulfilled  will  all  come  to 
pass. 

Read  the  account  of  that  vision.  Brother  Ivins  read  it  here  in 
the  tabernacle,  a  week  ago  last  Sunday.  Read  it  yourselves.  It  is 
published  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  just  as  Joseph  revealed  it  to  the 
world.  The  vision  or  revelation  that  he  received  from  the  Father  and 
the  Son  is  told  there  in  his  own  words.  Then  follows  the  account  of 
the  visitations  of  the  Prophet  Moroni,  three  distinct  times  in  the  one 
night.  Moroni  feeling  impressed  to  repeat  it  so  that  Joseph  should  not 
forget  it,  and  adding  other  things  that  he  had  not  thought  of  himself 
when  he  first  came.  Three  times  he  appeared  to  the  Prophet.  They 
were  real  appearances,  and  what  Joseph  saw  and  what  he  heard  were 
from  God.  Moroni  was  a  messenger  from  on  high.  There  has  been 
a  little  discussion  I  have  been  told,  by  a  few  of  our  brethren  holding 
some  kind  of  a  priesthood  class,  a  little  distance  from  the  center  of 
this  city,  over  the  wonderful  question  whether  it  was  Moroni  or 
Mormon  who  sealed  the  records  called  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They 
called  up  a  friend  of  mine  at  eleven  o'clock  at  night,  after  discussing 
it  for  three  hours,  to  know  which  was  the  right  thing;  and  he  re- 
plied :  "Why  you  have  been  singing  it  for  the  last  forty  or  fifty 
years :  'Sealed  by  Moroni's  hand,  it  has  for  ages  lain,  to  wait  the  Lord's 
command,  from  dust  to  speak  again."  Yes,  we  have  been  singing  it, 
and  how  much  do  we  know  wha£  we  are  singing  sometimes?  I  merely 
mention  that  so  we  may  call  to  mind  what  we  sing,  and  what  we  pray, 
and  what  we  have  agreed  to  do,  and  what  our  covenants  are,  what  we 
are  here  for.  We  spend  a  good  deal  of  time,  I  think,  in  some  of  our 
classes  in  discussing  matters  that  are  not  of  very  much  moment.  It  does 
not  matter  much  to  me  whether  it  was  Moroni  or  his  father  Mormon 
who  sealed  the  record,  although  it  is  best  to  be  accurate  and  right  in  all 
things.  Be  careful  to  be  right,  and  do  not  add  to  what  God  reveals. 
When  you  speak  his  word,  give  it  as  it  is. 

NEED  OF   PROPER  UNDERSTANDING  OF  THE  SCRIPTURE. 

Now,  my  brethren,  that  was  a  real  visitation  that  came  to  Joseph, 
and  if  we  will  read  it  carefully,  we  will  see  how  wonderfully  was  opened 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


up  and  prefaced,  the  things  that  were  to  come  in  the  bringing  forth  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  in  its  acceptance  by  prayerful  souls  and  rejection, 
by  the  world.  Many  things  that  are  of  great  moment  were  revealed  to 
Joseph  at  that  time,  and  they  are  recorded  in  that  simple  statement  of 
his,  which  you  can  read  in  this  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  is  a  very 
precious  document,  as  it  contains  revelations  given  to  Moses  the  Pro- 
phet, about  things  in  the  beginning  when  the  earth  was  made,  first 
spiritual  and  afterwards  temporal.  Many  things  are  in  the  Book  of 
Genesis,  which,  historically,  were  evidently  traditions  among  the  people, 
during  the  time  from  Adam  down  to  the  time  of  Moses,  which  was  over 
twenty-four  centuries — don't  forget  that — and  many  stories  are  told 
about  things  that  occurred,  and  I  fear  that  some  of  them  are  mingled 
together  in  the  same  chapter,  different  things  occurring  that  are  put 
in  such  a  way  that  we  sometimes  are  a  little  mistaken  in  our  views  con- 
cerning them.  In  regard  to  the  manifestation  of  God  to  Abraham,  there 
is  no  need  to  say  that  one  of  those  three  men  whom  we  read  of  in  Gen- 
esis 18,  came  to  Abraham  when  he  was  sitting  in  his  tent  door  in  the  heat 
of  the  day,  and  ate  veal  with  him.  was  God  Almighty.  There  is  no 
need  to  suppose  that,  and  if  you  will  read  the  chapter  carefully  you  will 
find  that  God's  conversation  with  Sarah  and  Abraham  at  that  time 
might  be  entirely  separated  from  the  story  of  those  three  men.  I  merely 
mention  that,  now,  because  some  of  our  elders  are  using  that  chapter 
as  an  argument  to  prove  that  our  heavenly  Father  is  a  personage  of 
tabernacle,  and  they  can  prove  that  without  going  to  those  narratives 
that  are  told  there  or  elsewhere. 

Now  I  think  that  it  is  a  very  important  thing  to  get  the  word  of  the 
Lord  as  it  comes  to  us,  as  we  can  read  it,  as  we  can  receivd  it  in  our 
hearts,  ourselves :  but  do  not  add  to  it  or  take  away  from  it.  Let  us 
keep  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  preach  it  to  the  world.  We  are  called 
to  this.  This  is  our  ''job"  ;  this  is  our  business.  Every  elder  of  the  Church, 
every  man  holding  the  Priesthood,  is  called  to  be  a  minister  for  God, 
and  among  the  peoples,  to  set  as  good  an  example  as  he  can,  consider- 
ing the  weaknesses  of  human  nature.  We  are  none  of  us  entirely  per- 
fect :  but  we  expect  to  "go  on  unto  perfection,"  by  keeping  the  will  and 
word  of  the  Lord.  By  and  by  we  will  arrive  at  that  position  when  we 
will  receive  our  bodies,  quickened  with  the  power  of  an  endless  life, 
and  they  become  spiritual ;  and  our  spirits,  which  are  the  sons  and  the 
daughters  of  God,  are  embodied  in  them  to  be  continued — to  be  con- 
tinued, to  be  unrestricted  in  their  united  existence  ;  not  for  a  time  or  a 
season;  spirit  and  element  inseparably  connected,  receiving  a  fulness 
of  joy.  And  the  time  will  come  when  we  will  receive  that  grand  glory, 
a  resurrection  of  our  mortal  bodies  to  become  .spiritually  united  with 
our  spiritual  beings,  the  sons  and  the  daughters  of  God,  and  all  eternity 
will  be  before  us  and  will  open  to  us  glory  and  honor  and  power  and 
dominion  and  increase,  perpetually,  forever  and  ever.  That  is  what 
is  coming  to  us,  and  it  will  pay  us  for  all  the  difficulties  and  troubles 
through  which  we  are  called  upon  to  pass  sometimes,  here  in  this  mor- 
tal state.    We  can  let  them  go  by. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W .  PENROSE 


19 


WE  MUST  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL  IN  ALL  THE  WORLD. 

There  is  a  ridiculous  song  being"  sung,  popularly — I  forget  the  title 
— but  it  is  "Let  the  rest  of  the  world  go  by."  Well,  we  can't  do  that. 
We  can't  let  the  rest  of  the  world  go  by ;  we  must  go  to  all  the  world 
and  preach  the  gospel,  to  every  creature,  to  every  kindred  and  tongue 
and  family  and  person,  so  far  as  we  can  reach  them,  and  we  have  done 
pretty  well  through  the  hundred  years  that  have  intervened  between 
the  time  when  Moroni  came,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  brought 
forth,  and  the  present  day.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  is  pretty  well  satis- 
fied with  us,  with  all  our  infirmities  and  all  our  weaknesses,  our  short- 
comings and  our  lack  of  faithfulness  which  applies  to  some  people,  it 
not  to  others. 

THE  LORD  WELL  PLEASED  WITH  HIS  PEOPLE. 

With  all  that,  I  believe  that  on  the  whole  the  Lord  is  well  pleased 
with  this  people,  and  his  Spirit  is  with  them,  and  his  power  is  with 
them.  I  believe  that  the  authority  and  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood 
are  being  manifested  in  a  greater  degree  than  ever  before  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church,  and  the  work  going  on  in  the  temples  is  something 
astonishing  when  we  come  to  read  the  reports  from  the  presidents  of 
those  temples,  what  they  have  done  and  what  they  are  preparing  to'  do. 
It  is  something  wonderful,  and  it  shows  that  the  Lord  is  working  in  the 
world,  as  well  as  we  are.  We  want  to  take  the  words  that  Jesus  said 
about  himself :  "My  Father  worketh  hitherto,  and  I  work."  Let  us 
feel  the  same.  The  Lord  is  working  for  us  and  with  us.  Now  let  us 
work  and  do  our  duty  and  the  Lord  will  be  with  us,  and  everything 
predicted  concerning-  the  glory  and  building  up  and  prevalence  of  this 
great  Latter-day  work  will  come  to  pass.  The  Lord  will  live  and  rule 
and  reign  in  Mount  Zion  and  in  Jerusalem,  and  before  his  ancients, 
gloriously.  He  will  bless  everyone  who  labors  in  his  cause  in  faithful- 
ness and  sets  a  good  example  to  his  fellows. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now  I  do  not  want  to  occupy  much  time.  I  am  very  thankful  for 
the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony.  I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  what  we  have  heard  this  morning  is  true,  and  you 
know  it  in  your  hearts.  I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Savior 
of  the  world.  It  is  through  his  atoning  blood  that  we  gain  remission 
of  our  sins,  given  to  us  in  the  waters  of  baptism.  It  is  by  His  power 
that  we  live  and  move,  and  by  it  that  we  receive  this  authority  which 
God  has  given  to  us  to  labor  in  his  cause  ;  and  he  will  be  with  us  if 
we  are  wih  him  in  keeping  his  commandments  and  walking  in  his 
ways. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  mission  of  the  President  of  the  Church. 
Presdient  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  great  leader  in  Israel,  and  we  give  the 
glory  of  his  work  to  the  Lord,  as  he  does.    I  feel  honestly  and  sincere- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ly  in  my  soul  today  that  all  that  I  have  been  able  to  do,  through  the 
years  that  I  have  labored,  has  been  by  the  blessing  and  providence  and 
leading  of  Almighty  God,  and  his  Spirit  has  been  with  me,  and  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  having  it  and  enjoying  it  with  Latter-day  Saints 
in  different  countries  that  I  have  visited,  no  matter  what  their  language, 
no  matter  what  their  customs,  no  matter  what  their  ways  or  surround- 
ings, the  Spirit  of  God,  the  same  Spirit  that  we  feel  here  in  Zion  is,  meas- 
urably, enjoyed  by  them,  and  so  I  can  say  of  the  whole  Church.  We 
have  one  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism,  and  one  hope  of  our  calling. 
W e  are  one  with  the  powers  of  God ;  and  by-and-by  we  will  be  united 
with  them,  and  crowned  with  glory  on  the  right  hand  of  our  Father, 
which  may  God  grant,  for  Christ's  sake,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR 

(President  of  the  Garfield  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  delighted  to  have  the  opportunity 
this  morning  of  looking  into  the  faces  of  so  many  Latter-day  Saints. 
Were  I  to  attempt  to  express  the  great  love  that  I  have  for  this  work,  it 
would  be  difficult  for  me,  indeed.  I  have  enjoyed  immensely  this 
morning  the  testimonies  and  messages  that  have  been  given  to  us  by 
the  President  of  the  Church  and  his  First  Counselor,  President  Charles 
W.  Penrose.  I  was  particularly  impressed  with  the  paragraph  of  that 
wonderful  dedicatory  prayer  which  was  read  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that,  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
the  majority  of  us  who  are  here  assembled  have  so  destined  and  shaped 
our  lives  that  it  matters  very  little  what  may  be  said  to  us,  but  that 
the  important  thing  to  us  is,  what  can  we  do  as  parents  in  Israel  to  shape 
the  destiny  of  our  boys  and  our  girls?  I  rejoice  in  the  great  keynote 
that  was  sounded  by  our  beloved  President,  that  if  we,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  will  observe  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  if  we  will  live  exem- 
plary lives  we  will  be  able  to  have  influence  and  power  with  the  youth 
of  Zion.  I  believe  that  the  youth  of  Zion  will  become  thoroughly  quali- 
fied; however,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  in  our  part  of  the  coun- 
try we  are  drifting  in  a  degree,  and  we  feel  that  some  of  the  insin- 
cerity that  is  manifested  by  us  as  parents  is  being  reacted  in  the  in- 
dolence and  in  the  idleness  of  our  children,  and  in  their  failure  to  fully 
perform  their  duties  as  members  of  this  great  Church. 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  meeting  we  had  this  morning.  I  have 
never  before  experienced  such  a  spirit,  and  never  before  had  the  feeling 
within  my  soul  that  the  veil  was  so  thin  as  when  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
was  speaking  this  morning,  and  1  felt  that  he  is  the  prophet  of  the 
Lord  to  our  great  Church. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
J.  am  delighted  with  the  pleasure  and  privilege  that  I  have  had 
in  laboring  in  the  Garfield  stake  of  Zion.  I  might  say  that  in  our 
stake  we  have  eight  wards  and  two  branches.  It  is  one  hundred  twenty- 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


21 


five  miles  across  our  stake ;  however,  we  are  delighted  to  say  to  you 
that  we  believe  absolutely  in  the  statement  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  as  re- 
corded in  the  scripture,  where  he  said : 

"And  hath  made  of  one  blood  all  nations  of  men,  for  to  dwell  on 
all  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  hath  determined  the  times  before  appoint- 
ed, and  the  bounds  of  their  habitation ;  that  they  should  seek  the  Lord, 
if  haply  they  might  feel  after  him,  and  find  him,  though  he  be  not  far 
from  every  one  of  us." 

I  am  delighted  to  say  that  we  have  been  preserved_and  reserved  by 
the  Lord  to  come  forth  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world.  We  who  are 
living  out  in  the  southern  part  of  this  state,  are  happy,  contented,  and 
are  seeking  and  finding  the  Lord.  Hundreds  of  our  people  have  strong 
testimonies  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  may  we  enjoy  this  conference  as  we  have 
never  before  enjoyed  any  conference,  and  may  we  take  the  message 
back  to  our  people  that  the  greatest  thing  that  will  redound  to  our 
welfare  and  make  for  success  in  the  rearing  of  our  children,  is  the 
example  that  is  set  by  parents.  May  the  Lord  bless  you  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  LARKIN 

(President  of  the  Curlew  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  this  morning  to  be  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  am  thankful  that  I  have  been  born  in  this  day  and  time 
when  God  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens,  when  he  has  restored 
the  Priesthood  to  the  earth,  and  has  given  man  authority  to  preach 
the  gospel.  I  am  thankful  that  I  have  the  privilege  of  being  here 
this  morning  and  listening  to  the  remarks  of  our  beloved  President. 
He  certainly  has  given  to  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,the  key  that  will 
enable  us  to  enter  our  Father's  kingdom.  I  am  thankful  that  he  has 
inspired  his  servants  as  he  has  done  in  these  last  days  to  lead  and  guide 
the  people.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  if  we  will  listen  to  their  words  that  we  will  gain  a  sal- 
vation and  exaltation  in  our  Father's  kingdom,  if  we  will  follow  the 
instructions  given  to  us  this  morning — observe  our  individual  and 
family  prayers,  and  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  seems  to  me 
that  if  we  will  do  those  three  things  we  will  be  led  to  do  other  things, 
for  by  so  doing  we  will  be  led  to  keep  the  commandments  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  given  to  us. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  know  that  I  stand  here 
this  morning,  that  the  gospel  is  true,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet 
of  God,  that  he  was  raised  up  in  this  the  last  dispensation,  to  establish 
his  work  here  in  the  earth.  I  know  it,  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  and  inspire  our  hearts  to  keep  the  commandments  that  he  has 
given  to  us  through  his  servants.    I  want  to  say  to  you  here  that  if  we 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


will  follow  the  counsel  that  is  given  to  us  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
we  will  never  go  very  far  estray. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  regarding  one  other  thing, 
and  that  is  the  matter  of  the  home  evening  that  the  Latter-day  Saint 
parents  have  been  counseled  and  advised  to  hold  with  their  families. 
If  you  will  call  your  families  together,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  once 
a  week  and  hold  a  home  evening  with  them,  pray  with  them,  and 
sing  with  them,  it  will  be  one  of  the  greatest  helps  to  you  in  holding 
your  boys  and  girls  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord.  That  is  my  experience, 
that  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  here  this  morning. 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  with  the  desire  to  serve  him  and 
keep  his  commandments,  that  in  the  end  we  may  gain  eternal  life.  I 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  AUSTIN 

(President  of  the  1'remunt  Stake  of  Zion) 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  1  rejoice  in  having 
the  opportunity  of  attending  (his  conference,  and  listening  to  the  in- 
spiring words  of  our  beloved  President  Heber  j.  Grant.  Surely  the 
testimony,  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  message  of  the  Prophet  of 
God  must  have  found  the  innermost  parts  of  our  souls.  The  Lord 
is  with  this  people,  and  with  his  servants  whom  he  has  given  charge 
concerning  this  great  Latter-day  work. 

Surely  the  people  of  the  world  must  discover  that  we  love  them 
when  we  send  thousands  of  our  boys  and  girls  to  the  ends  of  the  earth 
to  cry  repentance  unto  mankind,  and  to  deliver  the  message  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  to  tlrs  people.  My  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  thank  God  that  I  was  born  of  goodly  parents,  who  hearkened  untq 
the  voice  of  the  elders  in  a  foreign  land,  and  that  they  gathered  with 
this  people.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  my  standing  in  the  Church,  and 
for  my  association  with  the  General  Authorities,  and  the  brethren 
and  sisters  of  this  Church. 

We  have  a  splendid  people  in  the  state  of  Idaho.  They  are  serv- 
ing the  Lord,  determined  to  keep  his  commandments,  and  establish 
the  truth,  that  men  everywhere  may  know  that  our  Father  has  set 
his  hand  to  accomplish  his  work  and  to  save  bis  children,  to  bring 
about  peace  in  the  earth  and  good  will  to  men.  May  the  Lord  bless 
us  and  help  us  to  accomplish  every  desire  of  our  hearts,  and  to  this 
end  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

PART  OF  TIIK  HILL  CUMORAH  PURCHASED 

I  forgot  one  item  that  we  have  here,  namely  that  we  are  now  the 
owners  of  a  part  of  the  Hill  Cumorah.  The  Church,  a  few  weeks 
ago,  purchased  a  farm  of  ninety  odd  acres,  which  embraces  the  West 


PRESIDENT  HE  HER  J.  GRANT 


23 


slope  of  the  Hill  Cumorah,  about  one-third  of  the  way  up  the  hill. 
There  is  a  nice  farm  house,  and  it  is  a  very  fine  piece  of  property. 
Elder  Willard  Bean,  in  charge  of  the  Memorial  Home,  or  the  Smith 
Farm,  wrote  us  that  he  could  purchase  this  property,  and  we  are  glad 
now  that  at  least  part  of  the  hill  is  in  the  posession  of  the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  Truth?"' 
The  closing  payer  was  offered  by  Elder  Albert  Choules,  pres- 
ident of  the  Teton  stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Crant  presided. 

The  meeting  was  opened  by  the  choir  and  the  congregation  singing, 
''How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Robert  D.  Young,  president  of  the 
Sevier  stake. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Snell  sang  a  sacred  solo  entitled,  "Fear  Not  Ye,  O 
Israel." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  happy  to  be  able  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  inspiration  of  the  addresses  made  this  forenoon.  I 
was  deeply  impressed  by  the  opening  address  of  President  Grant,  and, 
as  to  one  of  the  stake  presidents,  to  me.  it  seemed  that  seldom  had 
we  had  such  an  opportunity  to  recognize  the  nearness  of  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  to  that  divine 
power  which  we  know  guides  this  Church.  I  noted  also  with  great 
rejoicing  the  constant  reference  to  the  great  event  that  occurred  in  New 
York  state  just  a  little  over  one  hundred  years  ago — one  of  the  very- 
great  events  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

TRUTH   NEEDS   NO  BOLSTERING 

I  was  reminded  by  a  remark  made  by  President  Penrose  of  a  state- 
ment made  to  me  by  one  of  my  young  friends  not  very  long  ago,  who 
had  been  studying  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Me  said:  ''1  have  been 
devoting  some  time  to  the  study  of  the  pre-historic  remains  in  South 
and  North  America  and  they  are  a  wonderful  confirmation  of  the  truth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon."  "But,"  he  added,  and  he  added  it  impres- 
sively, "as  I  have  read  and  studied  the  Book  of  Mormon  I  have  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  I  have  no  need  of  confirmation  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  that  wonderful  book  by  the  remains  of  pre-historic  peoples 
found  anywhere  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  because  I  have  discovered 
that  the  book,  within  itself,  carries  its  own  witness  of  its  truthfulness." 
T  was  glad  to  have  this  young  friend  bear  this  testimony,  for  I  knew 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thereby  that  he  learned  the  chief  lesson  that  comes  to  every  member 
of  this  Church  who  discovers  for  himself,  by  the  testimony  of  the 
Spirit,  that  this  is  indeed  the  work  of  God.  It  is  almost  a  truism, 
that  if  we  deal  with  high  truth,  a  great  truth,  such  a  truth  carries 
within  itself  evidence  of  its  correctness.  That  is,  one  does  not  need 
go  outside  the  truth  for  evidence  to  sustain  that  truth.  This  is  one  of 
the  characteristics  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  within  it  are  all 
the  evidences  that  man  may  need  to  establish  the  conviction  that  lies 
at  the  foundation  of  a  living,  perfect  and  continuous  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  this  work. 

As  we  read  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  or  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  or  any  of  the  works  produced  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  we  observe  this  wonderful  characteristic 
— that  each  revelation,  within  itself,  carries  to  those  who  read,  study, 
and  live  it,  a  witness  of  its  truth.  One  does  not  need  to  search  the 
world  for  evidence  of  the  truth  of  this  work.  The  evidence  lies  within 
the  work  itself. 

TRUTH  ALWAYS  COMES  IN  LIGHT 

In  the  remarkable  visitation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  it  seems  to  me,  we  have  an  illustration  of  the  fact  that 
truth  carries  with  it  the  evidence  of  its  authenticity.  It  may  seem 
unnecessary  to  say  this  to  Latter-day  Saints,  yet  young"  people  espe- 
cially, and  sometimes  older  people  think  that  they  must  go  far  afield 
to  secure  evidences  of  the  truth  of  the  revelations  to  Joseph  Smith. 
1  have  been  impressed  deeply  in  reading,  as  I  have  done  time  and 
time  again,  the  simple,  direct  story  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  con- 
cerning the  visitations  of  Moroni,  with  the  internal  evidence  of  the 
truthfulness  of  that  account.  Note  for  instance,  as  remarked  by 
President  Penrose  this  morning,  that  the  angel  came  in  light,  not  in 
darkness.  Truth  always  comes  in  light,  it  can  not  come  in  darkness; 
It  doe.suiot  come  hooded  and  covered  and  formless ;  it  does  not  come  as 
do  initiations  into  the  secret  societies  of  the  world ;  but  it  comes  in  open 
daylight,  or  in  a  light  above  that  of  daylight;  which  makes  it  clear 
and  understandable  tol  the  human  mind.  It  has  always  been  to  me  an 
evidence  of  the  truthfulness  of  Joseph's  simple  story,  that  the  Prophet 
declares  in  all  sincerity  that  Moroni  came  in  a  burst  of  light ;  that  out 
of  thq  light,  as  pictured  by  President  Penrose  this  morning,  came  the 
figure  and  form  of  Moroni,  as  the  Prophet's  eyes,  through  the  power 
resting  upon  him,  were  able  to  recognize  the  happenings  in  that  room. 

The  story  itself,  direct  and  simple,  is  a  splendid  piece  of  literature 
which  carries  with  it  conviction  that  here  is  a  man  who  is  telling  the 
simple  truth,  just  the  thing  he  saw,  just  the  thing  that  he  believed  to 
have  happened,  the  thing  that  he  knew,  in  fact,  had  happened.  Those 
who  tell  falsehoods  and  attempt  to  deceive  the  generations  of  men, 
seldom  speak  with  that  lucid  clearness,  wiht  that  simplicity  of  style 
which  characterize  the  wonderful  story  of  Moroni's  visitation,  found 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


25 


in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  President  Penrose  recommended  us 
to  read. 

THE  WONDERFUL  PEDAGOGY  OF   MORONl's  TEACHING 

President  Penrose  also  called  attention  to  the  wonderful  pedagogy 
of  Moroni's  teaching.  The  angel  came  to  impress  upon  the  boy 
Prophet  the  message  that  he  had  been  sent  to  deliver.  Three  times!  he 
rehearsed  the  message,  and  the  night  had  passed  by  the  time  the  third 
telling  had  been  completed.  The  boy,  worn  with  the  night's  vigil— 
because  his  spirit  dwelt  in  a  mortal  body — went  out  to  labor  in  the 
field,  when  for  the  fourth  time  the  angel  came  to  him,  and  there  in 
full  daylight,  to  make  certain  to  the  boy's  mind  char  this  ching  was 
not  a  delusion  of  the  night,  in'  the  full  glare  of  the  sun,  the  angel  came 
again  and  repeated  the  same  message  to  the  boy. 

I  am  an  old  teacher  of  boys  and  girls,  and  I  stand  in  admiration 
before  the  wise  method  of  teaching  employed  by  the  Angel  Moroni  in 
impressing  upon  the  mind  of  the  boy  the  tremendous  story  that  he  was 
to  initiate  in  this  last  period  in  the  history  of  the  world.  This  is 
another  evidence  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  remarkable  vision.  This 
seventeen-year-old  boy  had  no  background  of  experience  or  training, 
beyond  that  which  belonged  to  the  back  woods  of  New  York,  to  enable 
him  to  manufacture  and  lay  before  the  world  such  a  truly  wonderful 
system:  of  pedagogy  as  lies  in  the  simple  story  of  Joseph's  communica- 
tion with  the  Angel  Moroni. 

It  has  been  said,  and  I  believe  properly,  that  if  any  person  will 
read  with  care  the  account  of  the  first  vision  referred  to  this  morning 
by  President  Grant,  when  the  Almighty  Father  of  us  all,  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  appeared  to  the  boy  in  the  grove  in  Palmyra,  and  will 
read  in  that  connection  the  full  story  of  the  visitation  of  Moroni,  in 
those  two  episodes  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  lie  the  germs  of  every- 
thing that  happened  later  in  the  history  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
At  the  very  beginning  of  the  career  of  the  Prophet,  before  the  Church 
was  founded,  at  the  initial  time,  the  whole  future  was  reviewed;  as  a 
seed  is  planted  which  produces  a  complete  plant.  Thus,  in  the  seeds 
sown  in  the  Prophet's  mind  and  placed  before  his  understanding  in 
the  first  two  great  visitations  lie  the  germs  of  all  that  the  Prophet 
was  to  develop  throughout  his  life,  or  that  we  are  developing  today. 
This,  also,  is  a  convincing  evidence  to  me  of  the  simple  truthfulness 
of  all  that  pertains  to  the  work  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Wherever 
we  turn,  whatever  we  touch  of  the  work  he  did.  to  those  who  care 
to  read  and  think  properly,  comes  the  conviction,  that  here  was  a  boy 
who  saw,  who  knew,  who  told  the  truth,  who  was  not  capable  of  false- 
hood, who  made  no  attempt  to  garnish  or  change  or  enlarge  that  which 
had  come  to  him. 

THE  DIVINE  NATURE  OF  THE  MANIFESTATION 

Not  only  are  all  these  things  wonderful,  and  many  more,  with 
respect  to  the  great  anniversary  which  we  are  practically  celebrating  at 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  conference,  but  one  thing,  almost  above  all  others,  makes  us  feel 
the  divine  nature  of  the  whole  manifestation.  As  the  visit  continued 
throughout  the  night,  upon  each  occasion  the  Angel  Moroni,  at  a  cer- 
tain time,  not  clearly  described  to  us  in  the  story  as  given  us  by  the 
boy,  quoted  from  the  Bible.  Certain  quotations  were  quoted  just  as 
they  stand  in  the  Bible.  Some  few  were  changed.  One  in  particular 
was  changed  and  to  such  a  degree  that  it  is  found  among  the  latter- 
day  revelations,  as  Section  2  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants:  "Behold 
I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
Prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 
And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to 
the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 
If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his 
coming."  Moroni  had  shown  the  boy  a  picture  of  the  past,  of  the 
present  and  of  thei  future,  of  something  that  had  happened,  that  existed, 
that  should  happen.  Then  this  seventeen-year-old  boy  was  taught  that 
to  accomplish  that  which  was  pictured,  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood 
of  Almighty  God  would  be  necessary.  The  plan  of  a  railroad  may 
easily  be  projected,  but  it  takes  power  to  build  the  railroad.  The  boy 
was  told  that  it  would  require  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  to 
accomplish  the  coming  work  that  had  been  revealed  to  him,  laid  bare 
to  him,  during  that  long  night  and  on  the  following  day,  and  that  that 
authority  would  extend  into  the  past,  to  save  those  who  had  died 
without  obeying  the  law.  Elijah  was  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  children 
to  the  fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children.  P>y  this 
doctrine,  all  time  is  made  one,  all  events  are  made  parts  of  a  great 
progressive  plan :  all  things  and  time  are  united,  with  God  at  their 
head.  As  this  principle  is  elaborated,  it  becomes  perhaps  the  most 
tremendous  of  all  the  principles  restored  in  these  latter-days  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophef  Joseph  Smith.  Need  I  say  that  the 
fact  that  the  need  of  this  principle  to  cement  all  the  other  principles  and 
teachings  of  Moroni  is  a  great  evidence  of  the  truth  of  the  Prophet's 
story  of  Moroni's  Aasitations? 

TRUTH  EVER  SHAPES  THE  DESTINY  OE  HUMANITY 

Has  the  sword,  the  cannon,  or  the  implements  of  warfare  shaped 
human  destiny?  No.  A  truth;  a  true  idea,  presented  to  the  earth 
has  ever  shaped  the  destinies  of  humanity.  Men  had  forgotten  the 
Gospel  of  Christ.  Then  the  Christ  came,  laid  down  his  life  for  our 
redemption  and  among  other  truths  restored  the  one  that  man  shall 
not  sleep  forever  in  the  grave.  This  glad  truth  of  eternal  life,  as  it 
bursts  upon  the  earth,  has  changed  the  field  of  human  activity  for  nearly 
two  thousand  years.  It  has  made  wars  and  stopped  wars,  but  the  effect 
of  the  wars  of  the  nations  has  been  small  in  comparison  with  the 
influence  of  that  tremendous  truth  that  man  after  death  shall  live 
again.  Similarly  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  sent  out  over  the  earth  the 
mighty  truth  that  under  the  priesthood  there  is  a  coherence  of  all  time ; 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  W1DTS0E 


17 


and  that  the  dead  shall  not  only  live  again,  but  may  gain  that  which 
they  failed  to  win  on  earth,  that  the  power  of  the  priesthood  transcends 
the  limitations  of  time,  and  is  endless.  Therefore  we  build  temples. 
Already  this  truth  is  beginning  to  reshape  the  views  of  men,  and  in 
time  it  will  help  remodel  our  warring  world.  Truths  guide  humanity 
whether  recognized  or  not.  Let  me  paraphrase  two  lines  from  the 
Irish  poet: 

"One  man  with  a  dream,  at  pleasure, 
May  go  out  to  conquer  a  crown; 
And  two.  with  a  new  truth's  measure, 
May  trample  a  kingdom  down." 

That  is  the  power  of  great  truths. 

WE  ARE  MADE   FEARLESS  AND  UNAFRAID  BY  TRUTH 

Those  who  have  truth  are  not  afraid,  they  are  fearless  and  un- 
afraid. Latter-day  Saints  have  truth ;  therefore,  there  is  no  fear  in 
their  hearts.  Every  page  of  the  history  of  this  Church  proclaims  its 
truth.  Every  line  in  holy  writ  proclaims  the  truth  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work.  Every  chapter  in  the  history  of  this  Church  from  the 
Prophet  Joseph  to  the  Prophet  Heber  J.  Grant,  proclaims  the  same 
truth.  With  the  sword  of  truth  we  shall  wiri  the  battle  in  which  God 
has  enlisted  us. 

I  remember  reading,  when  a  boy,  a  helpful  passage  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Let  me  read  it  here  in  conclusion.  As  a  lad 
I  felt  fear,  sometimes  of  men.  but  more  often  of  the  dark  outside 
forces.  I  often  wondered  if  this  persecuted  people  after  all  would 
be  able  to  accomplish  all  that  was  pictured  in  its  destiny.  Then  I  found 
in  my  reading  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  this  passage  which  has 
been  a  joy  and  a  help  and  a  strength  to  me  all  my  life,  for  the  Lord 
said  to  his  people  in  Llarmony,  Pennsylvania,  before  the  Church  was 
organized : 

"Therefore,  fear  not,  little  flock;  dro  good;  let  earth  and  hell  combine 
against  you,  for  if  ye  are  built  upon  my  rock,  they  cannot  prevail. 

"Behold,  I  do  not  condemn  you;  go  your  ways  and  sin  no  more:  perform 
with  soberness  the  work  which  T  have  commanded  you. 

"Look  unto  me  in  every  thought;  doubt  not,  fear  not. 

"Behold  the  wounds  which  pierced  my  side,  and  also  the  prints  of  the 
nails  in  my  hands  and  feet;  be  faithful,  keep  my  commandments,  and  ye  shall 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

What  do  we  care  for  the  slanderer  or  the  liar ;  what  do  we  care 
for  the  enemy  who  arises  to  defeat  our  holy  purposes?  We  have  the 
truth,  the  mightiest  weapon  God  has  given  to  his'  people,  and  we  shall 
win,  in  the  end,  if  we  do  the  thinsrs  that  God  requires  us  to  do.  May 
we  be  strong  in  God's  service  and  in  that  sendee  may  we  be  fearless 
and  unafraid,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

While  the  President  was  speaking'  this  morning  he  referred 
to  the  very  important  incidents  connected  with  the  celebration  of  the 
one-hundredth  anniversary  of  the  visit  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  While  my  soul  was  thrilled  with  the  recital 
of  that  memorial  service,  I  was  asking-  myself  the  question  : 

What  is  the  purpose  in  the  bringing  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon? What  was  the  primary  object  and  purpose  of  the  Lord  in 
revealing  the  existence  of  those  plates  to  the  world  in  this  generation? 
I  recognize  that  there  are  many  reasons  why  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  and  is  needed.  What  a  comfort  it  brings,  what  enlightening 
knowledge  it  gives  to  us  concerning  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  the 
American  continent,  and  also  how  it  magnifies  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
in  his  ministry  among  men  upon  this  continent,  as  another  witness 
for  him  and  for  the  Lord's  work. 

TO  BRING  TO  PASS  THE  REDEMPTION   OF  THE  LAMANITES 

But  I  thought  of  one  of  the  revelations  in  the  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  that  gives  more  specific  information  upon  this  subject, 
and  with  your  permission  I  shall  read  a  few  verses  from  the  third 
section.    The  Lord  said  : 

"Nevertheless,  my  work  shall  go  forth,  for  inasmuch  as  the  knowl- 
edge of  a  Savior  has  come  unto  the  world1,  through  the  testimony  of  the 
Jews,  even  so  shall  the  knowledge  of  the  Savior  come  unto  my  people. 

"And  to  the  Nephites,  and  the  Jacobites,  and  the  Josephit.es,  and  the 
Zoramites,  through  the  testimony  of  their  fathers. 

"And  this  testimony  shall  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Lamanites, 
and  the  Lemuelites,  and  the  Ishmaelites,  who  dwindled  in  the  unbelief  be- 
cause of  the  iniquity  of  their  fathers,  whom  the  Lord  has  suffered  to  destroy 
their  brethren  the  Nephites,  because  of  their  iniquities  and  their  abomina- 
tions. 

"And"  for  this  very  purpose  are  these  plates  preserved,  which  contain 
these  records — that  the  promises  of  the  Lord  might  be  fulfilled,  which  he 
made  to  his  people; 

"And  that  the  Lamanites  might  come  to  the  knowledge  of  their  fathers, 
and  that  they  might  know  he  promises  of  he  Lord,  and  that  they  may 
believe  the  gospel  and  rely  upon  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ  and  be 
glorified  through  faith  in  his  name,  and  that  through  their  repentance 
the}-  might  be  saved,  Amen." 

For  this  very  purpose,  therefore,  were  these  plates  preserved,  to 
bring  to  pass  the  redemption  of  the  children  of  father  Lehi,  known  in 
North  and  South  America,  in  Central  America,  and  in  Mexico,  as 
the  American  Indians  and  some  of  the  natives  upon  the  isles  of  the 
sea.  I  feel,  therefore,  that  as  we  celebrate  the  anniversary  of  this 
appearance  and  the  first  knowledge  and  information  concerning  this 
sacred  volume  of  Scripture,  it  is  a  most  fitting  time  for  our  attention 
to  be  called  to  the  uncompleted  task  which  yet  rests  upon  the  priest- 
hood and  the  membership  of  this  Church — to  see  to  it  that  the  Book  of 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


29 


Mormon  accomplishes  its  full  and  complete  mission  in  being  an  in- 
strument in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  bringing  to  pass  the  redemption 
of  the  Lamanites.  Men  have  predicted  the  extermination  of  the 
Indians.  They  have  foretold,  as  they  thought,  a  time  to  come  when  the 
Indians  would  be  no  more.  But  the  Lord  has  spoken  upon  that  sub- 
ject and  said  that  the  Lamanites  shall  flourish.  No  power  can  defeat 
the  purposes  of  the  Almighty.  I  have  seen  evidences  in  my  own 
missionary  work,  having  had  the  great  privilege  and  pleasure  of 
laboring  a  portion  of  the  time  at  least,  for  ten  years,  among  the 
Indians,  which  convinced  me  that  the  day  of  their  redemption  is 
coming.  The  Lord  gave  me  to  see  and  understand  during  that  labor 
that  he  was  performing  many  things  in  preparation  for  their  re- 
demption. He  is  giving  them  a  language  at  the  expense  of  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  who  in  its  generosity  has  spent  millions 
of  dollars  in  training  and  preparing  the  Indians  in  the  English  language, 
until  the  records  show  that  in  this  country  at  least,  nearly  sixty  per 
cent  of  all  the  Indians  read  or  write  the  English  language.  The 
government  has  generously  provided  for  them  allotments  of  land  that 
will  be  ample  to  sustain  them  and  their  posterity  for  generations  to 
come,  if  only  they  will  preserve  these  lands.  I  have  seen  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  at  work  in  preparing  the  way  for  their  redemption,  and  I 
wish  to  bear  witness  to  you  that  their  redemption  shall  come,  and  that 
the  day  of  their  redemption  is  near  at  hand,  when  these  thousands, 
yea  these  millions  of  Lamanites  on  this  Western  Continent  who  have 
the  blood  of  Lehi  in  their  veins,  or  of  his  descendants,  shall  be 
touched  by  the  power  of  the  Almighty,  and  the  day  of  their  redemption, 
when  it  does  come,  will  be  one  of  power. 

I  desire  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  young  men  and  young  women, 
shall  appreciate  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  read  it  and  prepare  their 
hearts  and  themselves  so  that  when  the  time  does  come  that  they  shall 
ibe  called  to  go  forth,  that  they  shall  be  prepared  to  go  and  discharge 
the  obligations  which  the  Lord  has  placed  upon  us  as  the  custodians 
of  this  record,  to  see  to  it  that  it  does  fulfil  its  mission.  Its  mission 
is  not  completed  yet. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  was  given  as  a  new  witness  to  the  wotld. 
The  very  best  evidence,  perhaps,  that  the  Lord  ever  has  given  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  is  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Men  may 
scoff  at  the  idea  of  the  Father  and  Son  having  visited  him  in  the 
Sacred  Grove ;  they  may  think  that  they  can  dispose  of  it  to  their 
own  satisfaction  at  least,  by  calling  it  a  fraud  or  a  delusion,  but 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  real  substantial  thing.  It  is  the  miracle 
of  "Mormonism."  It  cannot  be  disposed  of  in  any  such  manner.  It 
must  be  reckoned  with,  it  must  be  accounted  for,  and  all  who  diligently 
and  earnestly  seek  to  account  for  it  shall  come  to  acknowledge  what 
Joseph  Smith  said  is  indeed  the  truth,  that  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God 
he  translated  the  records  from  the  plates  that  were  placed  in  his  hands, 
that  record  which  is  known  among  us  as  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


stands,  and  it  shall  stand  forever  and  ever,  and  it  cannot  be  defeated  nor 
can  it  be  thrown  down. 

TO  BLESS,  BENEFIT  AND  SAVE  THE  PEOPLE  OF  THE  WORLD 

I  believe  also  that  the  Lord  raised  up  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
brought  it  forth,  and  in  connection  with  it  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  for  a  given  and  definite  purpose,  to  be  a  benefit  and 
salvation  to  the  peoples  of  this  world.  I  think  that  our  Father  in 
heaven  is  very  much  like  an  earthly  father.  He  is  more  or  less  limited 
in  his  power  to  do  things  because  of  law  that  he  observes  and  must 
observe.  An  earthly  father  cannot  set  aside  the  law  of  the  land,  nor 
can  he  veto  the  law  of  nature.  If  that  father  has  a  wicked  and  re- 
bellious son  who  violates  the  law  of  the  land  or  the  law  of  God  or  the 
law  of  nature,  that  earthly  father's  great  anxiety  cannot  save  his  son. 
All  that  earthly  father  can  do  is  to  warn  his  son  of  the  danger,  point 
out  the  difficulties  that  are  before  the  boy,  plead  with  him  to  change 
his  course,  and  afier  he  has  made  his  appeal  he  can  point  out  the  way  of 
safety,  and  then  the  father's  powers  to  save  are  ended.  All  his  over- 
weaning  love  for  that  boy  cannot  go  further.  Our  heavenly  bather  is 
very  much  in  the  same  condition.  You  will  discover,  if  you  will  read 
the  first  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  what  the  Lord 
said  as  he  gave  this  wonderful  address  in  the  First  Section  to  all  the 
world  through  his  servant  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Reading  from 
the  seventeenth  verse  we  find  the  following: 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come 
upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith, 
Jun.,  and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets — " 

Let  me  now  read  from  the  twenty-second  verse : 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established, 
"That  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 
the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken  it;  these  commandments  are  of 
me,  and1  were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their  weakness,  after  the  manner 
of  their  language,  that  they  might  come  to  understanding." 

I  understand  from  this  that  the  Lord  plainly  knew  the  condition 
of  the  world,  what  it  was  in  1830,  and  what  it  would  De  today  m  the 
year  192'3.  Knowing  the  calamities  that  were  coming  to  his  children, 
unless  they  changed  their  course,  knowing  their  disposition  that  there 
would  be  no  repentance  in  their  hearts,  and  yet  with  a  great  desire 
to  save  them,  he  called  upon  his  servant.  Joseph  Smith,  to  warn  men, 
to  call  repentance,  and  others  to  join  in  this  great  proclamation  to  all 
men:  "Repent,  for  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand.''  And  not  only  to 
warn  men  that  there  was  peril  and  danger  ahead,  but  to  offer  the 
means  of  escape  from  the  perils  that  would  come.  Our  merciful 
Father  never  has  left  his  children  in  a  condition  of  dire  peril  from  which 


ELDER  M EL  VI N  J.  BALLARD 


31 


they  could  not  extricate  themselves,  either  in  the  days  of  Noah,  in  the 
days  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  or  in  the  days  of  the  Redeemer  him- 
self, or  in  these  latter-days, — it  is  all  the  same.  He  has  always  in 
ample  time  given  his  sons  and  daughters  full  and  complete  warning-  of 
the  perils  and  dangers  that  are  ahead  of  them,  and  has,  in  that  con- 
nection, clearly  pointed  out  the  way  of  escape.  That  has  been  true  in 
this  dispensation,  and  the  warning  has  been  proclaimed  on  the  islands 
of  the  sea,  in  the  continents  of  the  world,  and  through  the  states  of  the 
United  States,  and  among  even  Pagan  nations,  the  warning  voice  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  has  been  heard,  for  nearly  one  hundred  years,  and 
it  is  a  warning  voice  that  also  comes  with  a  kind  invitation  to  all  the 
Father's  children,  showing  the  means  of  escape,  which  is  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  restored  again  among  men.  I  stand  here 
without  any  fear  and  say  without  any  danger  of  anybody  successfully 
being  able  to  prove  the  contrary,  that  if  the  warning  voice  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  elders  of  this  Church  had  been  heeded 
by  the  nations  of  the  earth,  we  would  not  have  seen  the  dreadful 
calamity  of  war  through  which  we  have  passed,  that  these  problems 
could  have  been  solved  and  averted.  The  means  was  provided,  and 
the  means  was  rejected,  and  then  when  our  Father  has  clone  this, 
though  he  be  God,  is  yet  limited  -to  law,  by  obedience  to  which  he 
became  God,  and  he  must  honor  the  same,  he  cannot  step  beyond  those 
limitations  and  set  aside  the  law.  The  law  must  take  its  course, 
and  when  men  refuse  the  offer  and  tender  the  Lord  has  given  by 
which  they  may  be  saved,  they  cannot  blame  the  Lord  if  calamities, 
judgments  and  destructions  come  upon  them.  The  Lord  cannot  avert  it, 
it  must  take  its  course,  and  yet  our  Father  in  his  kindness  and  mercy 
has  offered  the  way  and  the  means  of  escape. 

god's  voice  crying  repentance  through  the  elements 

Now  1  want  to  bear  witness  of  something  else :  You  will  find 
it  recorded  in  one  of  the  revelations  to  the"  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  the  elders  of  this  Church,  that  after  the  testimony  of  the  elders 
should  come  the  testimony  of  lightnings,  of  thunder,  of  earthquakes, 
of  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond  its  bounds,  and  of  destruction, 
the  elements  being"  engaged  in  bearing  testimony — the  thunder  would 
cry  repentance.  And  yet  in  that  same  revelation  the  Lord  said  they 
would  not  heed  that  warning  voice  no  more  than  they  had  heeded  the 
warning  voice  of  his  servants.  But  I  want  to  call  the  attention  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  indeed  if  1  had  the  power,  the  attention  of  all 
the  world  to  the  fact  that  God  is  speaking  through  the  elements.  The 
earthquakes,  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond  its  bounds,  bringing  such 
dire  destruction  as  we  have  seen  are  the  voice  of  God  crying  re- 
pentance to  this  generation,  a  generation  that  only  in  part  has  heeded 
the  warning  voice  of  the  servants  of  he  Lord.  Oh,  that  men  would 
hear  the  voice  of  the  elements  proclaiming  repentance,  and  if  they  shall 
not  hear  it  they  shall  be  visited  with  dire  calamity,  for  this  is  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


day  of  settlement,  the  day  of  reckoning,  the  hour  of  God's  judgment  has 
come.  I  rejoice  not  in  the  prospects  of  the  chastisement  that  awaits 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  I  desire  that  they  would  save  themselves.  The 
means  is  yet  at  hand.  By  repentance  and  by  turning  to  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  they  may  find  that  salvation,  but  without  it  there  is  no  salvation 
for  this  world. 

SIGNS  OF  THE  SECOND  COMING  OF  CHRIST 

When  Jesus  spoke  to  his  disciples  in  answer  to  their  query  :  "Show  us 
when  the  end  of  the  world  shall  come,  and  the  time  of  thy  coming,"  he 
told  of  certain  signs  that  would  indicate  the  time  of  his  coming,  the 
very  signs  that  the  world,  if  they  only  had  eyes  to  see,  could  be  be- 
holding today:  Said  he:  judge  the  matter  even  as  you  would  judge 
the  coming  of  spring.  When  you  see  the  fig  tree  putting  forth  its 
leaf,  ye  know  that  summer  is  near,  and  so  when  you  see  these  signs, 
you  may  know  that  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man  is  nigh  at  hand. 
I  believe  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  just  geologist  enough  to 
know  the  time  when  this  earth  would  quake,  when  the  processes  of 
nature  should  go  forth  to  cause  great  upheavals,  and  knew  the  hour, 
just  as  an  astronomer  can  predict  the  time  of  eclipse.  The  Lord  Jesus 
knew  when  that  would  happen,  and  he  knew  it  was  coincident  and 
immediately  preceding  the  wonderful  events  that  would  happen  in  pre- 
paration of  his  coming. 

YOU  SHALL  SEE  WONDERFUL  THINGS  COME  TO  PASS  IN  THIS  GENERATION 

These  are  the  last  days  spoken  of  by  the  prophets  of  old.  These 
are  the  signs.  Oh,  Latter-day  Saints,  let  us,  though  we  be  in  Zion, 
be  not  asleep,  for  this  is  the  day  when  no  man  can  be  at  peace,  nor 
shall  we  remain  at  peace  in  sin  or  in  transgression ;  for  everything 
will  be  shaken  that  is  not  built  upon  righteousness,  and  every  man, 
whether  in  Zion  or  elsewhere,  who  does  not  keep  the  commandments 
of  God,  shall  be  shaken  and  shall  fall,  and  shall  feel  the  chastening 
hand  of  the  Almighty.  Oh,  let  us  be  good,  obedient  children,  that  we 
may  learn  in  time,  the  lessons  the  Lord  wants  us  to  learn,  and  if 
we  shall  do  it,  if  we  shall  keep  the  advice  and  counsel  of  the  President 
of  this  Church,  in  the  address  given  this  morning,  the  judgments 
shall  pass  over  us  as  they  did  in  the  days  of  ancient  Israel,  and  those 
who  keep  the  commandments  of  God  have  no  need  to  fear,  and  they 
will  discover  that  the  Lord  has  seen  this  from  the  beginning,  and  he 
has  known  where  to  plant  this  people,  and  this  people  shall  here  be 
preserved  if  only  they  shall  serve  the  Lord.  They  need  not  fear  any- 
thing else,  only  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  you 
shall  see  wonderful  things  come  to  pass,  even  in  this  generation. 

THIS  IS  AN  INDIVIDUAL  TESTING  TIME 

May  the  Lord  teach  us  to  be  obedient,  to  be  humble,  to  be 
peaceable,  and  to  be   faithful,  to  stand  in  this  testing  time,  for 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


33 


this  is  a  testing  time,  when  individuals  are  being  tested — no  great  assault 
against  the  Church,  but  a  mighty  assault  on  the  part  of  the  evil  one 
against  every  individual.  This  is  an  individual  testing  time,  and  the 
enemy  is  at  work,  and  he  is  in  the  midst  of  this  people,  seeking  to 
capture  souls  that  he  may  have  them  on  his  side  in  the  coming  conflict, 
for  there  is  a  coming  conflict,  and  the  powers  of  the  evil  one  on  the 
earth,  and  in  hell  shall  be  arrayed  in  deadly  conflict  for  the  victory 
of  rulership  and  power  and  dominion  over  this  earth  against  the  Son 
of  God.  And  the  hosts  of  the  righteous,  living  and  dead,  shall  be 
victorious,  and  the  evil  one  and  all  his  power  shall  be  overcome.  But 
there  is  coming  the  time  of  strife,  and  there  will  be  no  peace  from  this 
day  until  that  conflict  is  ended,  by  the  victory  that  shall  come  to  the 
Lamb  of  God  and  his  faithful  Saints.  And  may  the  Lord  shorten 
those  days  for  the  elect's  sake,  and  preserve  us  on  the  side  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters,  I  pray  in  his  holy 
name.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  have  enjoyed  the  tremendous  inspiration  of  our  heavenly  Father 
that  has  been  poured  out  upon  us  during  this  conterence.  Nearly 
every  speaker  thus  far  has  referred  to  the  visit  of  Moroni.  When 
the  21st  day  of  September  came,  very  naturally,  like  the  rest  of 
you,  I  thought  of  this  visit.  I  read  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  that 
wonderfully  concise  and  convincing  story  of  the  life  of  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith. 

MORONI'S  MESSAGE. 

As  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe  has  already  said,  the  Angel  Moroni 
repeated  his  message  three  times,  once,  twice,  thrice  in  a  single  night, 
.and  by  that  time  daylight  appeared.  Again  the  following  day,  Sep- 
tember 22,  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  but  seventeen  years  of  age,  found  his 
way,  guided  by  the  vision  of  the  night  before,  to  the  Hill  Cumorah 
and  there  discovered  the  plates.  The  message  was  repeated  for  the 
fourth  time.  In  this  message  many  passages  of  scripture  were  re- 
ferred to  and  quoted.  I  read  these  references.  While  but  a  part  of 
the  third  chapter  of  Malachi  was  quoted,  I  read  it  all. 

THE  LAW  OF  TITHING. 

The  part  of  this  chapter  which  refers  to  the  law  of  tithing  I 
read  with  very  great  interest.    It  says: 

"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein 
have-we  robbed  thee?    In  tithes  and  offerings. 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat 
in  mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that 
there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  xeceive  it."'    (Malachi,  3:8,  10.) 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  a  wonderful  promise.  It  looks  as  if  the  faithful  are 
to  be  rewarded  in  the  near  future.  Reports  I  have  heard  of  late  are 
to  the  effect  that  the  prices  of  our  crops  generally  are  very  good.  The 
price  of  wool,  the  price  of  wheat,  the  price  of  potatoes  and  the  price  of 
heets — all  these  prices  are  very  satisfactory.  We  are  comparatively 
large  producers  of  alfalfa  seed,  and  it  is  reported  that  in  all  probability 
we  shall  receive  this  year  an  unusually  high  price  for  this  product. 
The  prices  of  the  products  of  our  farms  are  also  comparatively  high. 
It  looks  as  if  the  day  of  prosperity  is  coming.  The  hearts  of  the 
people  are  filled  with  good  cheer.  As  a  rule  they  are  looking  forward 
with  fine  satisfaction  to  the  future.  The  Lord  has  said  it.  and  his 
words  cannot  fail:  ''Prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts, 
if  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a 
blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  AND  ITS  PROMISES. 

The  President  in  his  remarks  this  morning  referred  in  his  usual 
clear-cut  and  forceful  way,  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  In  this  Word 
of  Wisdom,  "the  letter  from  the  Lord,"  as  President  Grant  called  it 
this  morning,  there  are  four  clear-cut  and  most  desirable  promises 
made  to  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  the  things  con- 
tained in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  "walking  in  obedience  to  me  command- 
ments." 

The  first  of  these  choice  and  desirable  promises  is  health.  What 
more  desirable  blessing  can  anybody  Wish  ?  Yet  the  Lord  says  very 
clearly  that  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  the  sayings  in 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments, 
"shall  receive  health."  Is  health  not  a  rich  compensation  for  the 
effort  required  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  in  this  "letter 
from  the  Lord"? 

After  health  what  would  we  naturally  select  as  a  choice  blessing 
if  we  were  given  the  right  to  choose  it?  In  this  "letter  from  the  Lord'' 
it  says  very  clearly  that  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  the 
sayings  in  this  Word  of  Wisdom,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments, shall  have  this  second  choice  blessing,  which  is  wisdom. 
Certainly  we  all  desire  to  be  wise.  Few  of  us  see  a  single  day  in  all 
the  years  of  our  lives  in  which,  if  we  had  wisdom,  we  could  not  use 
it  to  advantage.  The  second  great  promise  to  those  who  will  keep 
and  do  these  sayings  is  wisdom. 

After  health  has  been  secured  and  wisdom,  what  third  great 
gift  or  blessing  would  we  naturally  desire?  Would  it  not  be  knowl- 
edge, the  third  great  promise  contained  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom? 
The  promise,  in  this  "letter  from  the  Lord,"  is  clear-cut  and  unequi- 
vocal, that  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  the  sayings,  con- 
tained in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments, shall  find  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  yea,  even  hidden  treas- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  35 

l 

ures.  Can  you  imagine  greater  compensation  or  greater  reward  for  any 
effort? 

If  to  these  three  choice  blessings  or  promises  a  fourth  were 
added,  can  anyone  imagine  a  blessing  more  choice  or  more  desirable 
than  the  fourth  promise  in  this  Word  of  Wisdom,  namely,  that  the 
Lord  himself  gives  unto  all  those  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these 
sayings,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  "a  promise  that 
the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and 
not  slay  them." 

These  four  most  choice  and  desirable  blessings,  the  Lord  himself 
promises  to  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings, 
and  walk  in  obedience  to  the  commandments.  These  four  are,  first 
health ;  secondly,  wisdom ;  thirdly,  knowledge,  yea,  even  hidden 
treasures  of  knowledge ;  and  fourthly,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them  as  the  children  of  Israel  and  not  slay  them. 

ENFORCE  THE   ANTI-CIGARETTE  LAW 

Since  this  Word  of  Wisdom  teaches  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for 
man ;  and,  further,  since  I  am  a  Mutual  Improvement  worker — one 
of  the  General  Superintendency — and  our  Mutual  Improvement  or- 
ganization has  had  a  slogan  referring  to  the  use  and  sale  of  tobacco,  I 
desire  to  make  a  few  remarks  concerning  our  so-called  anti-cigarette 
legislation.  I  am  glad  to  be  able  to  say  that  so  far  as  I  know,  in  the 
whole  State  of  Utah,  there  is  not  one  individual  who  is  not  satisfied 
with  the  legislation  upon  this  subject  which  we  now  have  on  our 
statute  books.  Since  all  the  people  seem  to  like  the  law,  and  since 
all  the  people  seem  to  be  in  favor  of  enforcing  it,  as  a  Mutual  Improve- 
ment worker  I  appeal  to  you  now,  stake  presidents,  high  councilors, 
bishops,  and  bishops'  counselors,  and  leading  men  in  every  part 
of  the  Church,  and  out  of  it  for  that  matter,  to  do  your  utmost  to 
have  this  splendid  law  enforced.  Since  it  is  unlawful  for  those  under 
twenty-one  years  of  age  to  have  tobacco  in  any  form  in  tneir  possession, 
and  further,  since  it  is  unlawful  for  any  individual  in  the  State  of 
Utah  to  sell  or  give  to  minors  tobacco  in  any  form,  we  have  a  splendid 
opportunity  by  enforcing  this  law  to  keep  our  young  people  from  using 
cigarettes.  All  good  citizens  too  should  be  interested  in  seeing  to  it 
that  only  those  who  are  paying  a  license  for  the  privilege  of  so  doing 
be  permitted  to  sell  cigarettes.  A  considerable  amount  of  good  is  being 
accomplished  too  by  suppressing,  under  the  law,  all  advertising  of 
tobavCO  in  any  form  on  bill  boards.  If  the  citizens  generally  will 
see  to  it  that  this  law  is  enforced,  the  number  of  boys  who  smoke 
cigarettes  will  be  rapidly  and  materially  decreased. 

Since  we  are  placing  such  emphasis  on  this  matter  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  some  may  feel  as  did  the  man  in  the  mission  field  when 
he  asked  the  missionary :  "Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  with  this 
doctrine  you  call  'Mormonism,'  you  propose  to  conquer  the  whole 
world?" 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  GOSPEL  WILL  ULTIMATELY  CONQUER  THE  WORLD 

I  can  reply  as  did  the  boy  missionary :  "Well,  I  will  not  say  that 
witli  'Mormonism'  we  expect  to  conquer  the  whole  world,  but  I  do 
desire  to  say  to  you  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  ultimately 
conquer  the  whole  world,  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  gospel 
we  teach."  Men  may  criticize,  men  may  ridicule,  men  may  find  fault, 
but  nevertheless  this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  There  is 
not  one  before  me  now  in  this  great  audience  who  cannot  testify  that  he 
has  been  made  better,  he  has  been  made  stronger,  he  has  been  made 
happier  in  proportion  to  the  degree  of  accuracy  with  which  he  has 
lived  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
He  who  has  found  sorrow,  he  who  has  found  regret,  has  found  this 
sorrow  and  this  regret  because  he  has  failed  to  live  in  accordance  with 
these  teachings. 

We  seek  all  that  is  virtuous,  all  that  is  lovely,  all  that  is  upright, 
all  that  is  uplifting  in  all  the  world.  It  is  our  aim  to  secure  all  these 
things,  to  produce  a  generation  of  splendid  people  the  like  of  which  the 
world  has  never  known. 

ANOTHER  PROMISE  OF  THE  LORD 

Before  closing  I  desire  to  refer  to  one  other  promise  the  Lord  has 
made : 

"Jesus  answered  them  and  said,  my  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his 
that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  (John 
7:16,  17.)  Keep  the  commandments.  Live  in  accordance  with  the 
teachings.  Struggle  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  example  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Do  these  things  and  the  promise  is  to 
all  the  people  forever,  you  shall  know  of  the  doctrine.  There  is  no 
uncertainty,  there  is  no  question,  there  is  no  doubt,  positively  none. 
The  statement  unequivocally  is :  "He  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

SPLENDID  LEADERS  IN  THE  CHURCH 

To  be  associated  with  you  who  are  now  sitting  before  me,  you 
splendid  men,  wonderful  men,  remarkable  men,  and  glorious  women, 
is  the  joy  and  pride  of  my  life.  I  thought  as  I  sat  here  this  morning 
when  the  President  began  calling  some  of  the  stake  presidents :  "Who 
can  imagine  what  is  contained  in  the  hearts  of  these  excellent  men  who 
are  in  this  audience?  Who  knows  what  they  could  say  if  they  were 
given  an  opportunity  to  stand  before  this  audience  and  speak?" 

I  was  in  a  stake  conference  only  last  Saturday  and  Sunday. 
I  wanted  the  Stake  President  to  speak,  but  he  said  only  a  few  words. 
At  a  later  meeting  I  insisted  saying :  "speak  again,"  Again  he  said  but 
a  few  words.  He  did  not  seem  to  desire  to  make  a  real  address.  When 
Sunday  night  came,  however,  and  the  building  was  crowded  with  the 
young  people  of  the  stake  at  the  Mutual  Improvement  meeting,  I  ex- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


37 


plained  that  on  the  regular  program  for  that  particular  session  there 
were  three  different  topics  intended  for  three  different  speakers.  All 
the  visitors  but  the  two  Mutual  Improvement  workers  had  returned  to 
Salt  Lake  City.  So  I  said  to  the  president:  "Mr.  President,  here  is  a 
topic  upon  which  I  desire  you  to  speak.  The  subject  is  prayer." 
Without  warning,  without  notice,  up  he  stood :  and  by  the  Spirit  and 
power  of  God  he  testified,  and  thrilled  us,  through  and  through, 
with  his  own  personal  experiences  as  a  result  of  placing  his  confidence 
and  trust  implicitly  in  the  Almighty. 

"we  stand  for  divine  guidance" 

In  free  America,  in  this  Christian  country,  the  country  of  Wash- 
ington, the  country  of  Lincoln,  the  country  of  Franklin,  the  country  of 
Roosevelt,  the  country  of  Harding,  can  any  loyal  citizen  object  to  the 
work  that  is  being  done  by  our  great  Mutual  Improvement  organization ! 
As  President  Grant  has  already  said,  our  slogan  for  this  year  is  on  the 
subject  of  prayer.  Like  those  great  statesmen  who  devised,  who 
created,  who  under  divine  inspiration  wrote  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  we  Mutual  Improvement  workers,  one  hundred  thousand 
strong,  today  have  for  our  slogan  the  following:  "We  Stand  for 
Divine  Guidance."  May  we  have  this  guidance,  may  we  be  able  to 
distinguish  the  whisperings  of  the  still  small  voice,  may  we  be  able 
to  live  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  great  Master,  thus 
placing  our  trust  and  confidence  in  divine  providence.  If  we  do  this, 
our  faith  is  founded  on  a  rock,  it  will  not,  it  must  not,  it  cannot  fail. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Granite  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  trust  the  Lord  will  inspire  the  few  remarks  that  I  may  make 
on  this  occasion.  I  was  delighted,  and  my  being  was  thrilled  with 
happiness,  in  the  free  and  inspirational  talk  that  was  given  this  morn- 
ing by  our  President.  While  listening  to  the  remarks  made,  in  the 
forenoon  session,  as  well  as  this  afternoon,  I  felt  that  I  have  a  duty 
devolving  upon  me  as  the  president  of  a  stake  of' Zion,  to  carry  this 
message  back  to  the  people  in  our  stake.  It  is  true  that  only  a  .small 
part  of  the  Saints  can  gather  in  these  conferences.  The  great  mass 
of  the  people  are  at  home,  and  the  strength  and  the  efficacy  of  this 
work,  in  this  conference,  will  be  felt,  I  am  sure,  if  the  representatives 
who  are  gathered  here  will  take  the  message  given,  and  the  spirit 
thereof,  to  their  respective  people  at  home.  I  feel  that  I  should  call  the 
priesthood  of  our  stake  together  and  in  a  humble  way  impress  them 
with  the  importance  and  dignity  of  the  messages  that  we  have  been 
listening  to,  and  will  listen  to,  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference. 

I  sense  very  deeply  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  as  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  and  when  I  remember  the  convenants  that  I  have  made 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  the  Lord,  and  recognize  my  membership  in  this  Church,  I  almost 
tremble  in  the  fear  that  I  am  not  measuring'  up  to  that  which  the  Lord 
expects  of  me  as  a  member  of  this  Church. 

As  a  high  priest  in  the  Church,  I  should  live  a  life  that  would 
be  well  worthy  of  imitation  by  all  the  people  who  live  in  our  midst. 
I  would  like  the  high  priests  in  our  stake  of  Zion  to  cleanse  them- 
selves, to  purify  themselves,  and  put  themselves  in  harmony  with  the 
divine  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  so  that  they  may  enjoy  every  grace, 
gift  and  power  pertaining  to  their  high  and  holy  calling  in  the  Church, 
and  stand  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  so  that  every  boy  and 
every  girl  observing  their  lives,  and  things  that  they  do  before  their 
fellow  men,  can  see  hope  and  good  cheer,  and  go  on  and  do  the  things 
that  are  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God  the  eternal  Father. 

I  believe  the  seventies  living  in  our  midst  should  so  order  their 
lives  that  they  may  enjoy1  the  .spirit  of  that  office  and  calling,  and  have 
a  desire  within  their  hearts  to  proclaim  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  all  who 
will  give  heed  to  their  warning  voice  and  the  testimony  that  they  have 
in  their  hearts.  I  realize  that  right  in  our  wards,  in  our  own  commun- 
ities, there  are  people  who.  I  am  sure,  are  hungering  after  the  word 
of  God.  When  seventies  are  called  to  a  holy  calling,  it  appears  to  me  that 
they  should  so  order  their  lives  that  they  may  always  have  within  iheir 
hearts  and  souls,  a  burning  witness  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  of  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  work  that 
we  are  engaged  in,  and  be  in  the  front  ranks  always  in  the  purity  of 
their  lives,  in  their  example,  and  in  delivering  the  word  of  the  Lord 
that  may  come  to  them  to  bear  off  this  message,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  and  be  magnified  in  the  sight  of  all  men  in  carrying  this  message. 

I  would  like  to  see  the  elders  in  our  midst  stand  as  a  home  guard, 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  and  ordering  their  lives  so  that 
they  also  may  give  hope,  courage,  and  inspiration  to  their  neighbors ; 
that  their  neighbors  may  see  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  lives 
of  those  who  hold  this  holy  Priesthood,  an  example  that  they  will  feel 
to  follow  after,  and  see  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  those  things  which 
will  convince  them  of  its  divinity ;  and  that  the  children  and  the  peo- 
ple at  home,  will  see  the  power,  the  strength,  and  the  inspiration  that 
emanate  from  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  of  God. 

I  know  it  is  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord  that  men  who  hold 
this  Priesthood  should  magnify  it  for  the  salvation  of  the  children  of 
men.  I  hope  our  boys  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood  will  see  in  the  lives 
and  examples  of  the  elders  in  the  Church,  something  that  they  can  emu- 
late and  follow  after,  as  they  witness  their  acts  and  their  deeds  in  the 
Church ;  that  they  may  be  led  to  go  on  and  keep  the  commandments  of 
our  eternal  Father.  I  hope  that  no  man  who  holds  the  Priesthood 
will  ever  be  a  stumbling  block  to  any  boy  who  has  a  desire  in  his 
heart  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

After  hearing  what  I  have  listened  to  this  day,  especially  from 
the  President  of  the  Church,  I  feel  that  I  want  to  go  back  to  my 
stake  of  Zion  and  try,  with  all  the  power  that  the  Lord  gives  me,  to 


ELDER  ERANK  Y.  TAYLOR 


39 


build  up  our  people  in  the  faith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  to 
have  them  keep  the  commandments  and  do  that  which  is  right  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord. 

There  was  reference  made  here  by  one  of  the  brethren  to  our  homes. 
I  believe  that  I  need  to  set  my  house  in  order.  I  believe  that  the 
people  in  this  Church  need  to  set  their  houses  in  order,  and  that  their 
homes  should  be  houses  of  prayer,  where  the  Scripture  is  read,  where 
the  word  of  God  is  given,  that  the  boys  and  girls  may  grow  up  under 
the  fear  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  worship  him  in  our  homes.  I 
think  that  our  auxiliary  organizations  are  doing  a  wonderful  work, 
which  is  accomplishing  great  good  in  the  midst  of  Israel,  and  yet  the 
Lord  expects  me,  and  you,  as  fathers  in  this  Church,  to  be  responsible 
for  the  faith  of  our  boys  and  girls.  I  was  pleased  with  the  remarks 
of  one  of  our  brethren  in  speaking  of  what  he  termed  our  "home 
evening."  I  think  we  should  return  to  good  old  principles  again,  and 
have  our  homes  as  places  of  worship,  where  the  Lord  may  be  exalted 
and  his  word  taught,  and  the  -right  example  set.  I  believe  that  we 
would  not  have  so  many  of  our  boys  wandering  away  from  the  in- 
fluence, touch  and  power  of  their  fathers,  if  we  would  gather  them 
close  together  with  us  in  our  homes,  more  often  than  we  do,  and  not 
depend  too  much  upon  the  Mutuals  and  upon  the  Sunday  schools  and 
other  organizations.  The  Lord  has  said  that  he  will  hold  us  responsi- 
ble for  the  conduct  of  our  children,  and  none  of  us  will  be  held 
blameless  unless  we  do  our  full  duty  along  the  lines  of  teaching  them 
the  way  of  the  Lord.  Our  children  are  more  valuable  to  us  than  our 
flocks  and  our  herds,  our  bank  accounts,  and  the  honors  of  men.  No 
man  will  be  honored  before  God  who  neglects  his  children,  and  he 
will  hold  us  reseponsible  as  to  how  we  teach  and  how  we  are  directing 
them.  I  feel,  furthermore,  in  regard  to  our  home  evenings,  that  in 
these  gatherings  we  ought  to  have  worship  of  God  the  eternal  Father, 
in  view,  and  they  should  be  occasions  when  the  father  can  know  his 
boy  John,  and  John  may  know  his  father ;  where  the  parents  may  get 
up  close  to  their  children,  so  that  there  shall  be  such  harmony,  peace 
and  love,  as  the  Lord  intends  should  exist  in  our  midst.  Furthermore, 
I  believe  that  too  many  of  us  send  our  boys  to  Mutual,  too  many  of 
us  send  our  boys  and  girls  to  Sunday  school,  too  many  of  us  send  our 
boys  and  girls  to  the  amusement  places,  instead  of  going  with  them, 
we  do  not  go  to  chaperon  them,  to  be  in  touch  with  them,  and  find 
out  what  they  are  doing.  In  a  measure  we  could  give  dignity  and  grace 
and  inspiration  to  places  of  this  kind  if  the  fathers  and  mothers  would 
put  aside  their  earthly  affairs  and  mingle  more  with  their  loved  ones. 
In  the  future  we  should  then  have,  growing  up  in  the  Church,  glorious 
and  well  behaved  boys,  and  beautiful  and  amenable  girls,  who  would 
glorify  the  work  of  the  Lord.  May  the  blessings  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  abide  with  us,  that  we  may  accomplish  his  purposes.  May  we 
return  to  our  stakes  and  wards,  carrying  to  our  membership,  the  mes- 
sage of  our  inspired  leader  who  stands  as  the  representative  of  God 
upon  the  earth,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  SAMUEL  W.  PARKINSON 

{President  of  the  Franklin  Stake  of  Zion) 

If  I  survive  this  shock,  I  .shall  he  very  grateful.  President  Grant 
has  afforded  me  a  great  honor,  and  also  has  placed  upon  me  a  great 
responsibility.  I  humbly  pray  that  the  few  moments  I  may  occupy  I 
shall  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  indeed  enjoyed  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  conference  thus  far.  I  have  been  coming  to  conference  for 
many  years,  I  think  it  will  date  back  thirty  or  thirty-five  years.  I  have 
attended  conferences  and  have  listened  to  the  prophets  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  assure  you  that  my  testimony  has  been  strengthened.  Indeed, 
I  might  say,  I  have  received  a  testimony  in  listening  to  the  prophets  of 
the  Lord  explain  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  It  is  a  great  opportunity 
to  come  and  behold  the  wonderful  sight  that  is  before  me  on  this  oc- 
casion. I  feel  very  grateful  for  it,  to  come  into  this  wonderful  tab- 
ernacle and  be  associated  with  men  and  women  of  the  Lord,  the 
leading  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  to  listen  to  the  beautiful  music 
furnished  by  this  world-renowned  choir. 

I  remember  the  dedicatorial  services  of  the  temple,  thirty  years 
ago,  when  President  Woodruff  was  president  of  the  Church  ;  he  stood 
out  on  the  platform  and  said :  "Attention,  all  Israel.  We  are  about 
to  dedicate  this  temple  to  the  Lord."  I  remember  going  into  the 
temple  and  listening  to  those  services,  and  I  want  to  bear  you  my 
testimony,  at  this  time,  that,  although  I  was  only  a  boy,  I  obtained 
a  testimony,  in  that  temple,  of  the  divinity  of  "Mormonism."  I  have 
tried  to  keep  a  close  touch  with  the  Church  from  that  time  until  the 
present,  and  I  feel  proud,  and  rejoice  to  know  that  I  am  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  to  know 
that  we  have  such  great  men  and  women  at  the  head  of  this  Church, 
men  who  are  gifted,  men  and  women  who  are  qualified  to  advise  us 
in  the  ways  that  we  should  go.  My  testimony  unto  you  this  afternoon 
is  that  Toseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  that  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  unto  this  people.  It 
is  my  desire  to  carry  out  the  instructions  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.  T  feel  proud  that  I  have  been  called  to  preside  over  the  Frank- 
lin stake  of  Zion,  in  Idaho,  one  of  the  youngest  stakes  in  the  Church. 
T  feel  proud  of  this  calling,  and  it  is  my  purpose  and  my  desire  at 
all  times,  to  carry  back  to  the  people  the  counsel  and  instructions  that 
are  delivered  to  us  in  these  conferences,  regarding  their  duties  in  the 
Church.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  magnify  our  callings, 
is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE 

(President  of  the  Boise  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  have  been  thrilled  beyond  adequate  expression  by  the  instruc- 
tion and  the  inspiration  of  this  conference.    The  address  of  Pres- 


ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE 


41 


ident  Grant,  in  our  opening  session,  seemed  to  affect  me  more  deeply 
than  I  have  been  touched  by  anything  I  have  ever  heard  from  his 
lips.  I  know  that  he  speaks  with  divine  authority  and  that  he  stands 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  upon  the  earth  as  the  representative  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

President  Penrose  referred  to  the  commandments  of  God  as  stand- 
ing out  before  us  in  black  and  white,  which,  fortunately  for  us,  is  true. 
This  statement  brought  to  my  mind,  however,  a  wish  that  all  of  life's 
problems  might  stand  out  as  black  and  white  before  our  eyes,  that  we 
might  be  able  to  differentiate  clearly  between  the  right  and  the  wrong, 
the  true  and  the  false,  as  we  differentiate  and  recognize  the  lines  of 
demarcation  between  black  and  white.  But,  alas,  too  often  life's 
problems  present  themselves  as  a  mingling  of  the  two  as  shades  ot 
gray,  and  it  is  sometimes  quite  impossible  to  determine,  with  our 
natural  minds,  where  the  black  leaves  off  and  the  white  begins. 

One  has  said  that  it  is  given  to  every  man  to  know  so  much  as 
whether  or  not  he  knows.  To  know  a  thing,  it  must  be  made  compre- 
hensible and  convincing  to  our  understanding.  In  the  solution  of 
such  problems  as  1  refer  to,  we  need  human  intelligence  plus  some- 
thing else,  namely :  the  light  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  To  him  who  has  been 
baptized  by  authority,  following  his  sincere  faith  and  repentance,  is 
given  the  championship  of  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  light  to  his  path, 
illumination  to  his  mind,  and  warmth  to  his  soul.  It  is  true  that  fires 
will  not  burn  except  they  have  fuel,  whether  they  be  fires  of  love, 
fires  of  industry,  fires  of  achievement,  or  fires  of  holy  zeal.  These 
fires  must  be  fed  that  they  might  burn.  Those  who  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost  should  cultivate  and  encourage  the  Spirit,  that  light  might  be 
thrown  upon  their  path,  that  their  way  may  be  made  clear,  that 
their  minds  may  be  illuminated,  and  that  they  may  clearly  differentiate 
between  right  and  wrong.  Keep  the  fires  burning  within  your  souls ; 
do  not  let  them  go  out ;  for  remember,  you  cannot  rekindle  ashes. 

Dr.  Widtsoe's  interesting  reference  to  truth  brought  to  my  mind 
something  I  read  a  few  years  ago  to  the  effect  that  as  air,  fuel,  and 
water,  in  proper  proportions  are  necessary  to  sustain  the  body,  so 
inspiration,  truth  and  purpose,  in  equally  proper  proportions,  are 
necessary  to  sustain  the  mind.  As  we  reason  upon  this  hypothesis 
we  can  readily  reach,  I  think,  three  safe  deductions:  first,  that  inspir- 
ation with  insufficient  truth  and  purpose  means  lack  of  common  sense, — 
insanity.  It  means  a  light  without  organizing  truth  and  without 
a  directing  hand  to  make  it  applicable  to  the  utility  of  life.  Secondly, 
truth  without  sufficient  inspiration  and  purpose  gives  to  the  world 
its  mere  theorists,  its  pedants ;  men  who  have  fine  theoretical  con- 
ceptions, and  yet  without  the  practicality  of  their  application  to  the  needs 
of  every  day.  Thirdly,  purpose  with  scant  inspiration  and  truth  gives 
us  our  mere  dreamers ;  men  who  project  fine  conceptions,  but  never 
reach  a  conclusion ;  men  who  are  going  somewhere  always,  but  never 
arrive.    P>ut  the  infallible  outcome  of  inspiration,  truth  and  purpose 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


properly  compounded  by  the  hand  of  work,  always  brings  personal 
power,  achievement,  success,  wether  it  be  in  temporal  or  spiritual 
things. 

Our  light  may  be  a  little  one.  but  we  must  make  it  shine.  The 
crying  need  of  the  hour  is  for  us  to  do  the  very  best  we  can  with 
what  we  have  and  what  we  are.  We  must  have  confidence  and  faith 
in  ourselves.  We  should  see  to  it  that  we  have  confidence  and  faith 
in  our  brethren,  and  in  our  Church  and  in  our  God.  As  necsesary 
as  these  things  are.  it  is  likewise  important  that  we  should  so  con- 
duct ourselves  that  our  fellowmen  and  our  God  can  have  faith  and 
confidence  in  us. 

I  know  with  all  my  soul  that  my  heavenly  Father  lives ;  that  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  is  my  Redeemer ;  that  he  came  to  earth,  that  he 
marked  the  way,  that  he  died  on  Calvary's  hill,  and  redeemed  a  fallen 
world,  and  that  he  opened  the  door  for  the  resurrection  of  the  dead, 
as  an  actuality  and  not  a  mere  belief. 

In  the  language  of  another,  may  I  say : 

I  asked  an  angel  for  some  motto  sweet, 
Some  rule  of  life  by  which  to  guide  my  feet ; 
I  asked  and  paused  :  he  answered  soft  and  low  : 
"God's  will  to  know!" 

Will  knowlege,  then,  suffice,  dear  angel.  I  cried. 
But  ere  the  question  into  silence  died 
The  answer  came:  Nay,  this  remember,  too: 
"God's  will  to  do!" 

Once  more  I  asked :    "Is  there  more  slill  lo  tell"  ? 
And  once  again  the  answer  sweetly  fell : 
"Yea,  this  one  thing  all  other  things  above : 
"God's  will  to  love!" 

Oh,  that  we  may  love  God's  will  and  thereby  be  led  to  know  his 
will  and  carry  on  to  do  his  will,  that  through  us  his  will  may  be  done 
on  earth  as  it  is  done  in  heaven,  that  his  kingdom  may  come,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN 

(President  of  the  Alpine  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  greatly  in  the  spirit  of 
the  meetings  of  this  conference,  thus  far ;  and  my  spirit  and  feeling 
have  been  in  accord  with  the  principes  of  the  gospel  and  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne  by  those  who  have  spoken.  1  hope  and  trust  that 
I  may  be  able  to  stand  true  and  faithful  to  the  covenants  I  have  made, 
that  I  may  always  be  found  sustaining  those  who  preside  over  me 
in  the  Church ;  that  in  the  stake  of  Zion  where  I  have  been  called  to 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN 


43 


preside,  my  life  be  such  that  it  will  not  be  a  stumbling  block  to 
the  members  of  the  Church,  but  that  it  will  be  an  inspiration,  and 
help  them  to  roll  on  the  work  which  the  Lord  has  established  in  this 
Church. 

I  was  impressed  with  one  of  the  subjects  that  was  asked  and 
outlined  for  our  consideration  in  the  Parents'  class  of  our  Sunday 
school:  "Wherein  are  we  different  from  the  people  of  the  world?" 
It  is  a  great  subject,  an  important  subject  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  striking  feature 
in  which  we  are  different  from  the  people  of  the  world.  There  is 
nothing  like  it  in  all  the  world.  The  Word  of  Wisdom  was  spoken  of 
here  by  our  President  this  morning.  If  the  Latter-day  Saints  could 
live  in  harmony  with  that  law  and  uphold  the  Word  of  Wisdom  among 
the  people,  what  a  power  this  people  would  have  in  the  world  !  We  would 
certainly  be  different  from  many  of  the  people  of  the  world.  When 
we  speak  of  the  law  of  tithing,  the  means  by  which  the  Church  is  sup- 
ported, the  method  that  we  have  of  receiving  and  disbursing  the  tithes 
of  the  people,  oh,  how  different  from  the  people  of  the  world!  And 
when  we  speak  of  our  marital  relations,  being  united  together  in  the 
bonds  of  matrimony  by  the  authority  of  God,  which  binds  on  earth  and 
in  heaven,  I  say  again,  we  are  different  from  the  world.  May  we,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  let  our  light  so  shine  before  the  world  that  they 
may  see  the  good  works  of  this  people  and  be  led  to  glorify  his  name. 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Do  what  is  right.'' 

Elder  Allen  Park,  president  of  the  Gunnison  stake,  offered  the 

closing  prayer,  and  the  Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Saturday 

morning. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

Meeting  opened  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Saturday,  October  6,  1923. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  opening  hymn  was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  "Guide 
us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  E.  Browning,  president  of 
the  Weber  stake  of  Zion. 

A  sacred  solo  was  sung  by  Mrs.  J.  E.  Ellsworth,  "Come,  ye 
blessed  of  my  Father." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  respond  to  the 
call  of  the  President  to  occupy  this  position  for  a  short  time.  I  earn- 
estly pray  that  I  may  have  aid  and  assistance  from  our  Father,  in 
the  hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  under  his  inspiration 
that  will  be  of  some  value  to  us  in  our  great  work. 

ACHIEVEMENTS  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH. 

I  am  sure  that  we  have  all  been  impressed  with  the  thought  that 
we  cannot  celebrate  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  memorable 
event  which  brought  to  us  the  great  volume  of  Scripture  which  lies 
largely  at  the  basis  of  our  work,  without  contemplating  the  achieve- 
ments of  the  Lord's  prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  I  do  not  desire  to  be 
extravagant  or  to  go  beyond  the  bounds  of  plain,  safe  statement  of 
truth,  when  I  say  that  no  other  man  who  has  lived  since  the  time  of 
the  Redeemer,  has  made  such  a  contribution  to  the  philosophy,  the 
enlarged  conception,  and  the  righteousness  of  civilization  and  the 
world,  as  did  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  That,  perhaps  was  to  be 
expected,  since  it  was  through  his  instrumentality  that  the  gospel  ot 
Jesus  Christ  was  restored  to  the  earth.  I  do  not  claim  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  brought  to  us  new  things,  or  original  ideas  in  great 
abundance  because  he  restored  rather  than  originated  the  conceptions 
of  life,  which  constitute  the  theology  of  the  holy  gospel.  What  he 
did  also,  was  to  interpret  and  construe  the  gospel  so  that  it  touches  all 
the  affairs  of  life,  and  weaves  itself  into  the  fabric  and  tissue  of  all 
life  and  civilization. 

A  REMARKABLE  CONCEPTION  OF  CIVIL  GOVERNMENT. 

Among  the  large  contributions  which  Joseph  Smith  made  was 
that  remarkable  conception  of  civil  government  which  he  gave  to 
the  world,  for  it  was  he  who  emphasized,  if  he  did  not  first  teach. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


45 


the  doctrine  that  all  governments  are  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit 
of  men ;  and  it  was  he  who  first  plainly  declared — assuming  that  some 
attention  had  been  given  to  the  same  thought  before — that  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  great  land  in  which  we  live  came  from  the  inspiration 
of  God  through  men  who  were  raised  up  for  the  purpose  of  estab- 
lishing it  as  an  instrument  of  government.  I  have  always  been  grate- 
ful for  these  conceptions  of  government  and  I  have  felt  in  recent 
years  that  until  the  great  ideas  of  government  which  he  promulgated 
among  this  nation  find  their  place  more  securely  and  firmly  in  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  the  citizenship  of  this  country,  America  will 
never  achieve  her  great  destiny  and  will  never  be  what  she  was  in- 
tended to  be,  the  beacon  light  of  liberty  and  freedom  and  civil  right- 
eousness to  all  the  world. 

My  attention  has  recently  been  directed,  by  my  colleague, 
Brother  Richard  R.  Lyman,  to  a  book  which  is  off  the  press  but  a 
few  months,  in  which  the  author,  Mr.  Clarence  True  Wilson,  sets 
forth  rather  more  clearly  than  I  have  ever  seen  it  stated  before,  the 
conception  of  government  which  has  been  taught  in  this  Church  for 
nearly  a  hundred  years.  The  author  points  out  that  for  more  than 
thirty  years  he  has  studied  all  the  works  which  have  been  written 
upon  the  Constitution  of  this  country,  the  influences  which  brought 
it  about,  and  the  influences  exercised  upon  its  framers,  which  culmin- 
ated in  the  form  and  plan  of  government  which  find  expression  in 
that  great  document.  He  says  that  never  in  all  his  research  has  he 
discovered  a  single  author  who  attributes  the  Constitution  to  the  in- 
fluence of  the  Bible  and  God.  He  points  out  that  some  contend  that 
influences  derived  from  the  Assyrian,  the  Babylonian,  the  Greek,  and 
the  Roman  attempts  at  Republican  government  found  their  expres- 
sion in  this  great  document. 

INFLUENCE  OF  THE  BIBLE  ON   THE  CONSTITUTION. 

He  .says  that  most  commentaries  on  the  Constitution  pay  homage 
to  the  influence  of  the  common  law  of  England  and  the  English 
experiment  in  free  government,  but  in  no  works  on  this  great  docu- 
ment does  he  find  a  single  expression  which  indicates  that  it  was  the 
Holy  Bible,  the  scriptures  of  the  Lord,  which  furnished  the  founda- 
tion for  this  great  instrument  of  government,  and  yet,  says  he,  the 
Bible  is  the  only  book  with  which  all  the  framers  of  the  Constitu- 
tion were  intimately  familiar.  It  was  the  book  which  they  had  read 
from  their  childhood  to  their  maturity.  It  was  the  book  from  which 
they  learned  their  spelling;  it  was  the  book  from  which  they  learned 
their  English,  it  was  their  thief  literature;  and  he  asks  this  question: 
"Is  it  not  reasonable,  natural  and  logical,  to  draw  the  inference  that 
it  was  the  influence  of  the  Scriptures  of  the  Lord  wnich  permeated 
the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  those  patriotic  men  in  the  formulation 
of  the  greatest  instrument,  which  Gladstone  says,  ever  fell  from  the 
pen  of  man?"    Time  will  not  permit  to  make  anything  like  an  analy- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ticai  comparison  between  the  fundamental  institutions  of  our  govern- 
ment, as  they  were  esablished  in  the  Constitution,  and  the  Hebrew  gov- 
ernment which  was  established  under  the  hand  of  God,  and  which  pre- 
vailed for  so  many  centuries  under  his  divine  guidance.  It  might 
be  said,  however,  in  a  moment,  that  there  is  not  a  single  fundamental 
institution  of  this  country,  ordained  and  established  under  the  Con- 
stitution, that  does  not  have  something  like  a  counterpart  in  the  Israel- 
itish  form  of  government  which  prevailed  prior  to  the  time  of  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  SHALL  MENTION  BUT  A  FEW  ITEMS 

There  has  been  no  king  in  this  country.  Do  you  know  that 
Washington  was  upon  several  occasions  requested,  almost  demanded, 
to  assume  the  role  of  king,  for  that  was  the  form  of  government  which 
was  best  known  to  those  who  established  this  one.  He  persistently 
declined,  and  the  makers  of  our  Constitution  saw  the  wisdom  of  his 
action.  They  recognized  too  that  kings  and  the  so-called  divine 
right  of  kings,  were  not  compatible  with  the  great  spirit  of  liberty 
and  democracy  which  was  to  underly  the  structure  of  our  government. 
Does  it  not  seem  somewhat  significant  that  in  the  Israelitish  form  of 
government,  for  a  period  of  four  hundred  and  seventy  years,  there 
were  no  kings  to  rule  in  Israel,  in  spite  of  the  repeated  demands  of 
the  people  for  a  king,  that  they  might  be  like  other  nations.  They 
were  told  that  God  was  their  king,  and,  that  no  king  should  rule 
them  so  long  as  they  subscribed  to  the  great  principles  of  truth  and 
righteousness  which  the  Lord  had  laid  down  for  them  to  follow. 

Then,  too,  in  the  Israelitish  form  of  government  there  were 
no  class  distinctions.  It  is  true  that  there  was  the  order  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  that  the  priesthood  exercised  righteous  authority  over  the 
people,  but  class  distinctions  were  absolutely  forbidden. 

The  twelve  tribes  were  united  together  for  governmental  pur- 
poses, and  so  our  thirteen  colonies  were  united. 

I  wish  I  had  the  time  to  show  how  the  ten  commandments  have 
lain  at  the  basis  and  foundation  of  substantially  all  our  penal  law. 
There  is  not  one  of  them  which  has  not  been  in  some  way  or  other 
enacted  into  the  laws  of  the  States  of  the  Lnion. 

So  might  be  pointed  out,  if  time  would  permit,  a  large  list  and 
line  of  comparisons  which  establish  a  very  close  relation  between  the 
government  which  predominated  during  the  time  that  the  children  of 
Israel  were  governed  by  their  judges,  and  the  government  established 
here.  I  wonder  how  many  know  that  in  that  form  of  government 
which  prevailed  in  olden  times,  there  were  three  departments  which 
are  comparable  to  our  three  departments  of  government,  namely,  the 
legislative,  the  executive  and  the  judicial.  Perhaps  it  is  not  generally 
understood  that  the  judiciary  held  supremacy  in  the  old  time  as  in 
reality  it  holds  supremacy  now.  For  while  the  three  departments  of 
government  are  usually  said  to  be  co-ordinate,  every  student  of  our 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


47 


institutions  knows  that  it  is  the  Supreme  court  of  the  United  States 
which  has  the  last  word  to  say  with  reference  to  the  interpretation 
of  law  and  its  enforcibility  in  this  country.  Time  will  not  permit 
further  detail,  but  there  is  abundant  evidence  to  warrant  the  con- 
clusion that  the  fathers  drew  liberally  on  their  knowledge  of,  and 
training  in,  the  Hebrew  scripture,  in  building  the  democracy  of  the 
New  World. 

how  the  Principles  of  this  government  can  endure. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  state  these  points  of  comparison 
and  draw  your  attention  to  these  things  for  this  purpose — we  all  love 
this  country,  we  love  America,  we  want  the  principles  of  government 
which  we  espouse  to  endure.  I  ask  this  question :  Will  these  princi- 
ples of  government  endure?  Is  the  Constitution  safe  for  the  future, 
and  for  the  generations  to  come  ? 

I  answer  the  question  in  this  way,  that  the  Constitution  and  the 
sacred  principles  which  it  unfolds  in  the  form  of  government,  will 
endure  if  the  people  of  America  will  subscribe  to  and  defend  and 
uphold  the  fundamental  principles  of  religious  righteousness  upon 
which  it  is  built,  and  not  otherwise.  Righteousness,  in  its  last 
analysis,  is  a  religious  term.  God  is  the  author  of  righteousness.  The 
f ramers  of  laws  have,  to  a  large  extent,  recognized  that  doctrine. 
The  gospel  is  the  compilation,  the  aggregation  of  all  principles  of 
righteousness,  and  into  the  form  of  government  which  we  uphold  and 
support  there  has  been  woven  the  principles  of  individual  and  com- 
munity righteousness  which  are  underlain  by  truth  which  emanates 
from  God  himself.  You  can't  have  a  good  government  without  good 
people,  and  goodness  is  a  religious  term.  Much  as  many  of  our  phil- 
osophers would  contend  that  it  is  to  be  defined  in  terms  only  of 
ethics,  and  of  social  convention  and  understanding,  I  maintain  that 
all  true  morality  is  supported  by  and  finds  its  basis  in  religion,  and 
we  cannot  hope  in  this  country  of  ours  to  sustain  the  great  Con- 
stitution— and  you  know  that  that  is  a  matter  of  much  concern  now — 
unless  we  adopt  into  our  lives  those  principles  of  civic  righteousness 
and  of  morality  and  of  truth  which  underly  it.  I  wish  that  could 
be  said  to  the  whole  people.  I  am  just  as  thoroughly  convinced  that 
there  is  a  dependence  upon  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the  carrying 
forward  of  the  great  principles  of  government,  which  we  espouse  in 
this  nation,  as  I  am  that  our  own  work  depends  upon  his  pravidem  ; 
and  his  protection  and  his  guidance. 

the  principles  of  this  government  a  part  of  the  gospel. 

Indeed  I  regard  these  great  principles  of  government  as  a  part 
of  the  blessed  gospel  that  God  has  given  to  his  children,  and  so  we 
must  sustain  them.  To  us  is  committed  the  obligation  and  the  op- 
portunity of  maintaining  these  great  principles  of  righteousness  in 
their  undiluted  truth  and  beauty.    We  must  conserve  them,  we  must 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


preserve  them  for  the  generations  to  come.  America  must  not  fall 
from  the  standards  of  truth  and  righteousness  that  underly  the  struc- 
ture of  her  government. 

So,  I  say  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  has  made  the  greatest  contri- 
bution toward  proper  conception  of  civic  government  that  has  ever 
jbeen  given  by  any  man  in  all  these  years  of  history.  We  are  in- 
debted to  him,  so  are  all  our  fellow  citizens  though  they  know  it  not. 

Do  we  love  America?  Why!  We  worship  the  sacred  principles 
upon  which  America  and  her  government  stand.  There  are  no  truer 
Americans,  there  are  no  Americans  who  have  a  broader,  more  com- 
prehensive view  of  the  righteousness  of  government,  than  do  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  make  the  statement  with  deliberation,  know- 
ing that  it  is  true. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  keep  these  sacred  principles  inviolate, 
sustain  the  government,  engender  respect  for  law,  and  uphold  the 
mighty  Constitution,  that  lies  at  the  basis  of  all  our  institutions.  We 
could  repeat  with  propriety  the  prayer  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  the  Kirtland  temple,  which  prayer,  he  said,  was  given  by  revela- 
tion from  God : 

"Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  ;  have 
mercy  upon  the  rulers  of  our  land ;  may  the  principles,  which  were 
so  honorably  and  nobly  defended,  namely,  the  Constitution  of  our  land, 
by  our  fathers,  be  established  forever.'" — Doc.  &  Cov.  109  :54. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Wherever  I  go  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  my  duty  calls 
me,  meeting  them  in  the  various  wards  and  stakes  and  in  the  missions, 
I  find  them  imbued  with  a  spirit  of  deep  earnestness,  hopefulness, 
confidence,  trust  and  faith,  mingled  with  concern  and  serious  thought. 
They  are  happy :  nevertheless,  their  happiness  is  more  than  levity, 
for  in  their  rejoicing  there  is  thoughtfulness  and  deep  interest  as  to 
their  present  and  future. 

We  rejoice  that  the  work  of  God  is  progressing,  that  through  the 
ages  "one  unceasing  purpose  runs" ;  that  all  that  is  past  has  been  in 
preparation  for  that  that  now  is,  and  is  for  that  which  is  to  come;  that 
there  was  a  beginning,  even  as  there  shall  be  an  end,  to  this  particular 
phase  of  the  Lord's  purposes  concerning  his  children. 

THE  PURPOSE  IN  THE  CREATION  OF  THE  WORLD 

The  earth  was  created  primarily  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  divine 
purposes  respecting  man.  The  astronomer  regards  it  as  one  of  the 
stellar  units ;  the  geologist  looks  upon  it  as  the  field  for  his  investiga- 
tion ;  but  beyond  such  conceptions  we  regard  it  as  one  of  the  many 
spheres  created  with  definite  purpose,  in  which  (he  destiny  of  the 
human  race  is  the  chief  element  and  was  the  principal  concern  of  the 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


49 


Creator,  in  bringing  it  into  existence.  We  read,  as  the  Lord  revealed 
unto  his  friend  and  servant,  Abraham,  that  before  the  earth  was 
framed  the  Creator  and  those  immediately  associated  with  him  looked 
out  into  space  and  said :  We  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will 
make  an  earth  whereon  these  unembodied  .spirits  may  dwell ;  and  we 
will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  whatsoever  the  Lord 
their  God  shall  command  them. 

CLOSE  RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  EARTH  AND  MAN 

Now,  that  being  the  purpose  for  which  this  world  was  created, 
we  can  readily  understand  that  there  is  a  very  close  relationship  between 
earth  and  man.  We  read  that  when  the  transgression  in  Eden  was 
passed  upon  by  the  voice  of  judgment  the  Lord  said  unto  Adam : 
"Cursed  is  the  ground  for  thy  sake ;  *  *  *  Thorns  also  and  thistles 
shall  it  bring  forth  to  thee ;  *  *  *  In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 
eat  bread." 

This  seemingly  dire  pronouncement  would  be  nothing  but  fiction 
did  it  not  mean  that  a  great  change  came  upon  the  earth  itself  under 
the  curse:  and  the  Scriptures  reveal  a  very  significant  relationship 
between  the  development  of  earth  processes  and  that  of  mankind. 
Tndeed  the  earth  has  been  personified.  Righteous  Enoch,  we  are 
told,  regarded  it  as  a  being  conscious  and  sentient,  for  we  read: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Enoch  looked1  upon  the  .earth;  and  he  heard 
a  voice  from  the  bowels  thereof,,  saying:  Wo,  wo  is  me,  the  mother  of  men; 
I  am  pained,  I  am  weary,  because  of  the  wickedness  of  my  children.  When 
shall  T  rest,  and  be  cleansed  from  the  filthiness  which  is  gone  forth  out  of 
me?  When  will  my  Creator  sanctify  me  that  T  may  rest,  and  righteous- 
ness for  a  season  abide  upon  my  face?"  (Moses  7:48). 

Following  further  revelation  unto  this  prophet  and  seer,  concern- 
ing the  then  future  development  of  the  human  race  and  the  purposes  of 
God  concerning  such,  he  cried  out  in  anguish  to  the  Lord:  "When 
shall  the  earth  rest?"  Tt  was  then  shown  unto  him.  that  the  resurrected 
Christ  would  return  to  the  earth  in  a  dispensation  to  be  known  as 
the  last,  the  dispensation  of  fulness  and  restitution ;  and  that  he,  the 
Lord,  would  inaugurate  the  millennial  reign  of  peace.  "And  the  day 
shall  come  that  the  earth  shall  rest,  but  before  that  dav  the  heavens 
shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil  of  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth ;  and 
the  heavens  shall  shake,  and  also  the  earth  ;  and  great  tribulations  shall 
he  among  the  children  of  men,  but  my  people  will  I  preserve." 

Has  it  not  been  made  known  unto  us  that  we  may  sanctify  the  earth 
or  defile  it  according  to  our  acts?  There  is  a  close  connection  be- 
tween the  righteousness  or  sinfulness  of  mankind  and  the  occurrence  of 
natural  phenomena,  benign  or  malignant  as  we  regard  them,  good 
or  bad,  -preserving  or  destroying  as  the  case  may  be.  Now  the  gross 
materialist  may  say  there  is  no  relationship  between  the  righteousness 
of  man  and  earthquakes,  or  between  man's  probity  and  floods.  But 
there  is !  i  , 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


MAN  AND  EARTHLY  PHENOMENA 

Touching  this  matter,  I  read  to  you  my  own  words,  including 
scriptural  citations,  spoken  on  an  earlier  occasion :  We  learn  from 
Scripture  that  Adam's  transgression  brought  about  a  fallen  condition, 
not  of  mankind  alone,  but  likewise  of  the  earth  itself.  In  this  and  in 
numerous  other  epochal  events,  wherein  the  direct  interposition  of 
Divine  action  is  affirmed,  nature  is  seen  to  be  in  intimate  relation 
with  man. 

Thus  the  sins  of  mankind  may  produce  calamity  in  the  form  of 
destructive  phenomena,  which  we  may  properly  call  natural  because 
deserved ;  and  human  righteousness  may  invoke  peaceful  and  benefi- 
cent cooperation  of  the  elements. 

''Cursed  is  the  ground  for  thy  sake"  was  the  Divine  fiat  to  the 
first  man.  In  contrast,  note  the  assurance  given  to  Israel  that  by 
faithfulness  the  seasons  should  be  made  propitious,  that  nurturing 
rains  should  come,  bringing  such  harvests  that  the  people  would  lack 
room  to  store  their  products.    (See  Mai.  3:8-12). 

Abject  apostasy  from  the  laws  of  God  in  Xoah's  time  brought 
about  the  Deluge,  in  which  "were  all  the  fountains  of  the  great  deep 
broken  up,  and  the  windows  [more  properly  flood-gatesj  of  heaven 
were  opened.'' 

Enoch,  who  lived  before  Noah,  was  sent  to  proclaim  repentance 
to  the  degenerate  race,  and  so  great  was  the  power  and  authority  vested 
in  him  that  "he  spake  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  the  earth  trembled, 
and  the  mountains  fled,  even  according  to  his  command ;  and  the 
rivers  of  water  were  turned  out  of  their  course."  He  foresaw  the 
coming  of  the  Xoachian  flood,  and  the  events  of  history,  including  the 
Savior's  ministry,  down  to  the  days  of  the  Lord's  second  advent,  when 
"the  heavens  shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil  of  darkness  shall  cover 
the  earth ;  and  the  heavens  shall  -  shake,  and  also  the  earth." 
(Moses  7:13,  61). 

As  a  fit  setting  for  the  tragedy  on  Calvary,  a  pall  of  darkness 
fell  about  the  place,  and.  when  the  crucified  Lord  expired,  "the  earth 
did  quake,  and  the  rocks  rent."    (Matt.  27:51). 

DISRUPTION    SIGNALIZED  THE   SAVIOR'S  DEATH 

On  the  Western  Continent,  widespread  disruption  signalized  the 
Savior's  death :  and  destruction  befell  the  wicked  who  had  flouted 
prophetic  warnings  and  inspired  admonitions  to  repentance.  Many 
of  the  Nephites  had  forgotten  the  signs  and  wonders  by  which  the  faci 
of  the  Lord's  birth  had  been  made  known,  and  had  fallen  into  abom- 
inable wickedness.  Then,  at  the  time  of  the  crucifixion,  great  and 
terrible  tempests  broke  over  the  land,  with  thunderings,  lightnings, 
and  both  elevations  and  depressions  of  the  earth's  crust,  so  that  moun- 
tains were  sundered,  and  many  cities  destroyed  by  earthquake,  fire, 
and  the  inrush  of  the  sea.    For  three  hours  the  unprecedented  holo- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


51 


caust  continued;  and  then  thick  darkness  fell,  in  which  it  was  found 
impossible  to  kindle  a  fire.  The  awful  gloom  was  like  unto  the  dark- 
ness of  Egypt  in  that  its  clammy  vapors  could  be  felt.  This  condition 
lasted  until  the  third  day,  so  that  a  night  a  day  and  a  night  were  as 
one  unbroken  night;  and  the  impenetrable  blackness  was  rendered  the 
more  terrible  by  the  wailing  of  the  people,  whose  heartrending  refrain 
was  everywhere  the  same :  "O  that  we  had  repented  before  this  great 
and  terrible  day!"  Then,  piercing  the  darkness,  a  Voice  was  heard, 
proclaiming  that  destruction  had  befallen  the  people  because  of  wick- 
edness, and  that  those  who  had  lived  to  hear  were  the  more  righteous 
of  the  inhabitants,  to  whom  hope  was  offered  on  condition  of  more 
thorough  repentance  and  reformation.    (3  Nephi,  Chap.  8). 

MODERN  PROPHECY  ON  THE  SUBJECT 

As  was  foreseen,  aye,  and  foretold,  by  the  Christ  himself  and  by 
his  prophets  who  lived  before  his  mortal  birth  and  by  those  who  lived 
after,  in  the  earlier  ages,  and  by  the  prophets  of  the  present  dispensa- 
tion, great  destruction  has  come  and  shall  come  upon  the  earth  because 
of  the  sins  of  the  human  race.  In  section  88  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  that  section  known  unto  us  as  the  "Olive  Leaf"  as  named 
by  the  prophet  who  received  the  word  from  the  Lord  and  gave  it  unto 
the  people  in  1832,  December  27,  it  is  thus  declared : 

"For  not  many  days  hence  and  the  earth  shall  tremble  and  reel  to  and 
fro  as  a  drunken  man;  and  the  sun  shall  hide  his  face,  and  shall  refuse  to 
give  light;  and  the  moon  shall  be  bathed  in  blood;  and  the  stars  shall  be- 
come exceedingly  angry,  and  shall  cast  themselves  down  as  a  fig  that 
falleth  from  off  a  fig-tree. 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the 
people. 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that 
shall  cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground 
and  shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the 
voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and1  the  voice  of  the 
waves  of  the  sea  heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts 
shall  fail  them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people." 

THE  RECENT  CALAMITY  IN  JAPAN 

What  has  been  called  the  greatest  calamity  in  history  is  fresh 
in  our  minds.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  human  beings  have  lost 
their  lives  in  the  great  seismic  disturbances  in  Japan.  I  have  only  to 
say  that  the  occurrence  of  such  earthquakes  is  in  accordance  with 
predictions.  The  Lord  forbid  that  I  should  assume  to  pass  judgment 
upon  those  who  are  immediately  affected,  upon  those  who  have  lost 
their  lives  through  such  catastrophies.  It  is  beyond  the  wisdom  of 
men  to  correctly  deduce  resuhs  bv  applying  general  laws  or  causes  to 
individual  cases ;  and  whenever  the  judgments  of  the  Lord  are  per- 
mitted to  fall  upon  the  earth  and  upon  ifs  inhabitants,  there  are  many 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  innocent  who  suffer  with  the  guilty.  Many  go  down  who  are 
not  personally  culpable  and  who  are  not  directly  responsible  for  that 
which  has  come. 

RIGHTEOUS  AND  CULPABLE  SUFFER  TOGETHER 

We  know  the  Lord  does  permit  these  calamities  to  come  upon 
those  who,  according  to  our  means  of  judgment  and  powers  of 
analysis,  may  not  have  deserved  the  fate,  but  death,  remember,  is  not 
finality.  It  is  that  which  follows  death  with  which  we  should  have 
concern.  Many  are  allowed  to  die  in  tempest  and  earthquake,  whose 
death  is  but  a  passage  into  the  blessed  realms,  because  they  are  deserv- 
ing of  blessings;  while  unto  others  death  does  come  as  a  judgment; 
and  the  Lord  knows  who  fall  because  of  their  sins  and  who  are  per- 
mitted to  fall  because  of  their  righteousness. 

We  have  an  instance  in  point  concerning  the  connection  of  afflic- 
tion and  distress  with  individual  culpability.  You  remember  the  Lord 
and  his  apostles  once  came  to  a  blind  beggar  upon  the  street  near  the 
temple  gates;  "And  his  disciples  asked  him,  saying,  Master,  who  did 
sin.  this  man,  or  his  parents,  that  he  was  born  blind?" 

Incidentally  let  us  note  that  those  who  asked  that  question  had  an 
understanding  of  premortal  existence,  for  surely  the  man  could  not 
have  sinned  in  the  flesh  and  brought  upon  him  blindness  at  birth  as 
a  result.  But  the  explanation  given  by  the  Lord  is  the  important  point 
for  us  to  consider:  "Jesus  answered,  Neither  hath  this  man  sinned, 
nor  his  parents ;  but  that  the  works  of  God  should  be  made  manifest 
in  him."  The  Lord's  purposes  were  worked  out  in  the  case,  for  the 
man  was  healed,  and  the  instance  stands  as  a  testimony  for  or  against 
those  who  have  become  acquainted  with  the  circumstance. 

Incident  to  a  period  of  cruel  intolerance  in  religious  matters  among 
the  aboriginal  people  of  this  continent,  we  read  that  evil-hearted  perse- 
cutors put  to  death  many  women  and  children  by  burning,  thinking 
that  bv  this  means  they  could  terrify  the  rest  intol  a  denial  of)  their  faith. 
The  Prophets  Alma  and  Amulek.  were  forced  to  witness  the  awful 
scenes.  Though  themselves  in  bonds  they  were  brought  there  to  witness 
the  agony  of  the  victims ;  and  Amulek  with  zeal  and  righteous  indigna- 
tion desired  fo  invoke  the  power  of  God  to  save  those  innocent  suf- 
ferers :  "P>ut  Alma  said  unto  him  :  The  Spirit  constraineth  me  that  I 
must  not  stretch  forth  mine  hand  ;  for  behold  the  Lord  receiveth  them 
up  unto  himself,  in  glory ;  and  he  doth  suffer  that  they  may  do  this 
thing,  or  that  the  people  may  do  this  thing  unto  them,  according  to 
the  hardness  of  their  hearts,  that  the  judgments  which  he  shall  exer- 
cise upon  them  in  his  wrath  may  be  just ;  and  the  blood  of  the  innocent 
shall  stand  as  a  witness  against  them,  vea,  and  crv  mightily  against 
them  at  the  last  day."    (Alma  14:11). 

NATIONS  AS  WELL  AS  INDIVIDUALS  HELD  TO  ACCOUNT 

The  Lord  deals  with  individuals;  and  salvation  is  an  individual 
affair;  but,  nevertheless,  he  deals  also  with  nations,  for  he  is  the  God 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


53 


of  nations,  which  are  set  up  or  put  down,  are  preserved  or  destroyed, 
according  to  their  fitness ;  and  all  this  is  done  in  the  Lord's  due  time 
and  way.  "Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord,"  sang  the 
psalmist.  "Righteousness  exalteth  a  nation ;  but  sin  is  a  reproach  to 
any  people,"  declared  the  author  of  the  book  of  Proverbs. 

It  has  been  pointed  out  that  a  distinguishing  feature  of  the  last 
days  and  of  the  imminence  of  the  second  coming  of  Christ  would  be 
the  proclaiming  of  the  gospel  amongst  all  nations.  "And  this  gospel  of 
the  kingdom1  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all 
nations ;  and  then  shall  the  end  come,"  said  the  Lord  himself  in  the 
flesh  on  the  very  eve  of  his  great  sacrifice.  So  also  in  these  latter- 
days  the  Lord  has  made  plain  the  fact  that  nations  shall  be  held  to 
account.  In  a  commandment  to  the  elders  of  his  Church,  given  in 
February,  1831,  and  recorded  in  section  43,  he  said: 

"Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not.  Call  upon  the  nations  to  repent, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free,  saying:  Prepare  yourselves  for  the 
great  day  of  the  Lord; 

"For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up  my  voice  and'  call  upon  you  to 
repent,  and  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say  when  the  day  cometh  when  the 
thunders  shall  utter  their  voices  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  speaking  to  the 
ears  of  all  that  live,  saying — Repent,  and  prepare  for  the  great  day  of  the 
Lord? 

"Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings  shall  streak  forth  from  the  east 
unto  the  west,  and  shall  utter  forth  their  voices  unto  all  that  live,  and  make 
the  ears  of  all  tingle  that  hear,  saying  these  words — Repent  ye,  for  the  great 
day  of  the  Lord  is  come? 

"And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying: 
Hearken,  O  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear  the  word's  of  that  God  who 
made  you. 

"O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickpns  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would  not! 

"How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of 
thunderings,  and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice 
of  famines  and  pestilences  of  .every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump, 
and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long, 
and  by  the  voice  of  glory  and  honor  and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and 
would  have  saved  you  with  an  everlasting  salvation,  but  ye  would  not!" 

In  another  revelation,  section  84,  we  read : 

"For  I,  the  Almighty,  have  laid  my  hands  upon  the  nations  to  scourge 
them  for  their  wickedness. 

"And  plagues  shall  go  forth,  and  they  shall  not  be  taken  from  the  earth 
until  I  have  completed  my  work,  which  shall  be  cut  short  in  righteousness — 

"Until  all  shall  know  me,  who  remain,  even  from  the  least  unto  the 
greatest,  and  shall  be  filled  with  knowledge  of  the  Lord." 

Yet  further: 

"And  thus,  with  the  sword  and  by  bloodshed  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
shall  mourn,  and  with  famine  and  plague  and  earthquake  and  the  thunder 
of  heaven,  and  the  fierce  and  vivid  lightning  also,  shall  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth  be  made  to  feel  the  wrath,  and  indignation,  and  chastening  hand  of 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


an  Almighty  God,  until  the  consumption  decreed  hath  made  the  full  end  of 
all  nations.  (87:6). 

Now,  I  do  not  believe  in  trying  to  explain  away  the  words  of 
God  that  predict  calamity,  but  are  nevertheless  full  of  assurance  unto 
the  righteous,  be  it  a  righteous  man  or  a  righteous  nation.  We  should 
awaken  to  their  dread  import.  The  Lord  is  dealing  with  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  his  Spirit  has  departed  in  large  measure  from  nations 
that  have  defied  him  and  his  commandments,  and  as  a  result,  they, 
being  left  largely  to  themselves,  war  with  one  another,  and  seek  all 
means  by  which  they  can  destroy  one  another  most  expeditiously. 
'Now,  the  Lord  is  not  the  author  of  these  evil  things ;  the  nations  are 
bringing  these  inflictions  upon  themselves,  and  there  shall  be  a  consum- 
mation brought  about  as  the  Lord  hath  decreed,  which  shall  mean 
an  end  of  all  nations  as  such,  if  they  will  not  observe  the  law  and  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  their  God. 

THE  WAV  OF  ESCAPE 

Is  there  any  way  of  escape?  Yes,  there  is.  The  Lord  sent  word 
by  his  prophets  unto  the  wicked  city  of  Nineveh,  and  the  cry  was 
raised  in  her  streets:  "Yet  forty  days,  and  Nineveh  shall  be  over- 
thrown." Then  from  the  king  upon  his  throne,  down  to  the  beggar 
in  the  streets,  the  people  wailed  because  of  their  wickedness,  and 
opened  their  hearts  to  the  warning  voice.  They  fasted  and  prayed, 
and  confessed  their  sins  before  the  Lord,  and  Jonah,  the  prophet  who 
had  been  sent  unto  them,  looked  on  to  witness  the  destruction  of  the 
city,  and  seemed  indeed  to  be  disappointed  because  he  was  denied  a 
view  of  the  spectacle  he  awaited.  But  the  Lord  reasoned  with  the 
prophet  in  this  wise :  The  people  have  turned  to  me,  and  have 
repented  of  their  sins.  Shall  I- destroy  them  when  they  have  turned 
unto  me? 

Even  now,  if  the  nations  will  turn  unto  the  Lord  it  shall  be 
unto  them  as  it  was  unto  Nineveh — they  shall  be  spared ;  but  if  they 
will  not,  then  the  Lord  will  permit  the  predicted  judgments  to  come 
upon  them  until  they  are  brought  to  a  realization  of  the  fact  that  they 
do  depend  upon  the  Lord  (Sod  of  heaven  and  of  earth.  The  forces 
of  nature  are  co-operating-  and  are  permitted  to  wreak  destruction  and 
the  end  is  not  yet.  Latter-day  Saints,  remember  the  admonition  of 
the  Lord:  "Stand  ye  in  holy  places,"  and  we  cannot  do  that  unless  we 
are  holy.  "Stand  ye  in  holy  places,  and  be  not  moved,"  but  await 
the  working  out  of  the  Lord's  purposes,  the  while  living  lives  of 
righteousness  and  crying  repentance  unto  the  people  of  the  world. 

the  time  of  Christ's  advent  is  near 

This  is  the  day  of  consummation,  and  the  coming  of  the  Lord  is 
nearer  than  we  are  willing  to  admit.  Let  us  not  seek  to  set  times  or 
dates,  for  such  we  are  told  shall  never  be  made  known  until  the. day  ot 
the  Lord's  coming :  not  even  the  angels  in  heaven  are  to  know  before- 


'ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


time.  Therefore,  away  with  all  attempts  to  fix  times  for  the  Lord. 
But  he  has  told  us  that  the  time  of  his  advent  is  near ;  and  it  is  over 
a  hundred  years  nearer  than  it  was  when  he  spake  first  to  his  prophet 
in  this  dispensation.  I  pray  that  we  be  prepared,  and  that  we  be  found 
ready  for  the  consummation  of  the  ages,  the  coming  of  the  Lord  in  his 
might  and  majesty  to  rule  and  reign.    I  ask  this  in  his  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  feel  dependent  this  morning  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
guide  me.  in  what  I  shall  say.  Nor  is  this  an  uncommon  feeling, 
for  when  I  stand  before  the  people  I  have  a  spirit  of  timidity  and  feel 
my  weakness. 

EVENTS  OF  A  HUNDRED  YEARS  AGO 

A  number  of  the  speakers  have  referred  to  topics  in  relation 
to  those  most  important  events  which  occurred  one  hundred  years 
ago,  and  I  desire  to  add  one  or  two  thoughts  in  this  direction.  In 
the  year  1820,  when  the  declaration  was  made  to  Joseph  Smith  by 
the  Father  and  the  Son  that  the  truth  was  about  to  be  restored,  that 
youth  was  fourteen  years  of  age.  Nevertheless  his  story  created 
a  good  deal  of  consternation  and  ridicule  in  the  world,  and  brought 
upon  him  much  criticism,  and  even  persecution.  It  seems  to  the 
world  a  strange  thing,  and  an  impossible  thing,  that  the  Lord  would 
call  upon  a  youth,  inexperienced,  untrained,  lacking  in  the  education 
of  the  world,  to  stand  at  the  head  of  any  great  marvelous  work ;  and 
also  a  very  strange  thing  that  any  one  with  such  a  common  name 
as  Joseph  Smith  should  be  called.  When  the  elders  go  forth  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  and  bear  witness  and  testimony  to  the  truth  of  his  words, 
the  people,  in  ridicule,  state :  "Surely  the  Lord  would  not  call  upon 
anyone  by  that  name.  It  is  so  common.''  It  did  not  have  even 
the  aristocratic  "y"  in  it.  (Smyth).  I  suppose  the  Lord  desired  to  try 
the  faith  of  the  people,  at  any  rate  we  do  know  that  his  ways  are  not 
the  ways  of  men.  Perhaps,  if  Joseph  Smith  had  been  named  Martin 
Luther,  or  John  Calvin,  or  John  Knox,  or  John  Wesley,  or  some  other 
John,  it  might  have  had  more  weight  with  the  disbelieving  world. 
But  to  be  an  ordinary,  common,  every-day  Smith  was  more  than  they 
could  stand.  And  yet  this  is  the  way  the  Lord  works.  The  world,  I 
suppose,  has  an  idea  that  anyone  with  such  a  name,  if  he  has  any 
qualifications  whatever,  those  qualifications  would  be  what  the  name 
might  suggest — the  qualificatons  of  brawn  and  muscle,  and  not  of 
spirituality  and  intelligence. 

JOSEPH  smith's  contrirution  to  spiritual  thought 

It  has  been  stated  here  this  morning  that  Joseph  Smith  gave 
to  the  world  the  greatest  contribution  in  civil  government  that  the 
world  has  ever  known  since  the  days  of  our  Redeemer,  and  I  can 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testify  that  likewise  he  has  added,  or  given  a  contribution  to  the  world 
in  spiritual  thought,  and  religious  government,  that  is  greater  than 
anything  that  has  been  given  to  the  world  since  the  days  of  our 
Redeemer. 

No  matter  if  his  name  is  common,  the  youth,  young  and  un- 
educated, and  untrained  in  the  things  of  the  world,  I  am  fully  in 
accord  with  the  expressions  and  sentiment,  recorded  in  that  beautiful 
hymn  by  President  John  Taylor,  one  verse  of  which  I  shall  read 
because  it  appeals  to  me,  and  we  so  seldom  hear  it  sung. 

"Of  noble  seed,  of  heavenly  birth, 

He  came  to  bless  the  sons  of  earth; 

With  keys  by  the  Almighty  given, 

He  opened  the  full  rich  stores  of  heaven; 

O'er  the  world  that  was  wrapped  in  sable  night, 

Like  the  sun,  he  spread  his  golden  light; 

He  strove,  O,  how  he  strove  to  stay 

The  stream  of  crime  in  its  reckless  way; 

With  a  mighty  mind  and  a  noble  aim, 

He  urged  the  wayward  to  reclaim: 

'Mid  foaming  billows  of  angry  strife, 

He  stood  at  the  helm  of  the  ship  of  life." 

And  so  I  recognize  him  as  the  one  who  stood  by  appointment 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  at  the  helm  of  the  ship  of  life,  possessed 
of  the  Priesthood,  clothed  in  power  and  authority  to  establish  the 
work  of  the  Lord  for  the  last  time,  that  men  might  be  brought 
to  repentance,  might  have  the  opportunity,  the  privilege  of  embracing 
righteousness  and  truth  and  finding  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

WITNESSES   TESTIFY  TO  JOSEPiLS   WONDERFUL  MANIFESTATIONS 

Now  just  one  other  thought:  If  this  young  man  bad  come  before 
the  world  declaring  his  testimony,  bearing  witness  to  the  wonderful 
manifestations  of  the  power  of  the  Lord  as  made  known  to  him 
in  marvelous  vision,  and  had  stood  alone,  then  there  might  be  some 
question  raised  in  regard  to  that  statement  or  testimony ;  but  in  keeping 
with  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  the  promises  that  he  has  made  from 
the  beginning  that  all  things  shall  be  established  by  witnesses,  others 
were  called  to  testify,  to  bear  witness  with  Joseph  Smith  that  the 
things  of  which  he  spoke  and  of  which  they  spoke  were  true. 

ANCIENT  PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

In  the  revelations  given  anciently  by  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  who 
lived  upon  this  continent,  the  promise  was  made  that  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  as  recorded  in  that  early  day,  should  be  preserved  to  come  forth 
in  this  age  of  the  world's  history  as  a  testimony  unto  the  world  thai 
God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Nephi  says  of  that  which  he 
wrote  and  that  which  should  be  written  by  the  prophet  succeeding  him : 

"Wherefore,  these  things  shall  go  from  generation  to  generation  as 
long  as  the  earth  shall  stand;  and  they  shall  go  according  to  the  will  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


57 


pleasure  of  God;  and  the  nations  who  shall  possess  them  shall  be  judged 
of  them  according  to  the  words  which  are  written. 

''For  we  labor  diligently  to  write,  to  persaude  our  children,  and  also 
our  brethren,  to  believe  in  Christ,  and  to  be  reconciled  to  God;  for  we 
know  that  it  is  by  grace  that  we  are  saved  after  all  we  can  do.    .    .  . 

"And  we  talk  of  Christ,  we  rejoice  in  Christ,  we  preach  of  Christ, 
we  prophesy  of  Christ,  and  we  write  according  to  our  prophecies  that  our 
children  may  know  to  what  source  they  may  look  for  a  remission  of 
their  sins." 

And  then  still  prophesying  in  relation  to  these  things  which  are 
written  Nephi  says: 

"Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  will  proceed  to  bring  forth  the  word's  of 
the  book;  and  in  the  mouth  of  as  many  witnesses  as  seemeth  him  good 
will  he  establish  his  word;  and  wo  be  unto  him  that  rejecteth  the  word 
of  God!" 

Again,  in  relation  to  this  record,  he  says: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Lord  God  shall  bring  forth  unto 
you  the  words  of  a  book,  and  they  shall  be  the  words  of  them  which  have 
slumbered. 

"And  behold1  the  book  shall  be  sealed;  and  in  the  book  shall  be  a 
revelation  from  God,  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  ending 
thereof. 

"Wherefore,  because  of  the  things  which  are  sealed  up,  the  things 
which  are  sealed  shall  not  be  delivered  in  the  day  of  the  wickedness  and 
abominations  of  the  people.    Wherefore  the  book  shall  be  kept  from  them." 

And  we  may  judge  that  we  are  still  living  in  the  days  of  wickedness 
and  ahomination,  because  the  things  which  were  sealed  have  not  yet 
been  delivered  to  the  world,  nor  have  they  been  delivered  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  In  relation  to 
this  matter.  Mormon  writes,  as  we  find  it  in  the  26th  Chapter  of  the 
Third  Book  of  Nephi,  as  follows : 

"And  when  they,"  that  is,  the  people  who  live  now,  "shall  have 
received  this,  which  is  expedient  that  they  should  have  first,  to  try  their 
faith,  and  if  it  shall  so  be  that  they  shall  believe  these  things  then  shall 
the  greater  things  be  made  manifest  unto  them. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  they  will  not  believe  these  things,  then  shall 
the  greater  things  be  withheld  from  them,  unto  their  condemnation." 

ARE  WE  PREPARED  FOR  NEW  REVELATION? 

We  have  not  prepared  ourselves  yet  to  receive  the  things  which 
were  sealed,  and  which  the  prophet  was  not  privileged  to  interpret 
and  to  publish — to  our  condemnation,  to  our  shame,  and  to  the  con- 
demnation of  all  the  world.  To  our  shame,  I  say,  because  we  have 
not  learned  through  our  study,  our  faith  and  our  perseverance,  these 
lesser  things  which  have  been  given  and  have  been  revealed,  contained 
in  the  record  now  made  manifest  to  us,  known  as  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  it  behooves  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  follow  the  counsels,  the 
advice,  and  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  as  revealed  in  this  record  and 
in  other  records.  These  letters  referred  to  by  President  Grant,  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  from  the  Lord,  contained  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  must  study,  master  that  which  they  con- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tain ;  thai  is,  make  it  a  part  of  our  lives,  and  keep  the  commandments, 
and  live  in  accord  with  every  word  that  has  been  revealed  from  the 
mouth  of  God,  and  if  we  will  not  do  it,  those  other  things  cannot 
be  given  unto  us — to  our  condemnation. 

Oh  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  keep  the  commandments  of  tht 
Lord,  honor  him  and  his  word,  be  faithful  and  endure  in  all  things  to 
the  end,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 

I  have  been  attending  conference  in  this  tabernacle  pretty  regularly 
since  the  year  1867.  That  is  fifty-six  years.  1  can  «ay  with  entire 
sincerity  that,  during  all  those  years  I  never  attended  a  better  opening 
service  of  the  conference  than  we  had  yesterday  forenoon,  which  was 
the  opening  session  of  this  conference.  Never  was  the  power  of  presi- 
dency, the  power  and  spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  of  God, 
made  more  plainly  manifest  to  the  congregation  of  the  Saints  than  in 
that  meeting  yesterday  morning.  So,  also,  in  each  of  our  meetings  we 
have  had  a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  not  by  any  means  what  we  ought  to 
be  in  respect  to  living  our  religion,  and  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  ;  and  yet,  I  believe  that,  in  the  main  the  Lord  approves  of  the 
work  and  labors  of  his  faithful  Saints.  I  am  glad  to  report  that  the 
tithes  of  the  people  have  increased  a  little  over  what  they  were  a  year 
ago  at  this  time,  and  that  the  people  seem  to  be  more  faithful  in 
observing  that  law  and  paying  their  tithes  while  they  have  the  means 
to  pay,  monthly,  or  at  any  season,  whenever  the  means  comes  into  their 
hands.  They  seem  to  be  more  faithful  in  honoring  the  Lord  by  con- 
tributing to  this  work  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes. 

This  wrork  is  growing  and  it  is  a  power  in  the  land  ;  a  power  for 
good  and  not  for  evil.  It  is  an  agency  of  peace  and  good  will.  It 
labors  with  me  and  with  you  through  the  teachers,  of  the  wards  and 
in  other  ways,  to  have  peace  in  our  homes ;  peace  in  the  family.  And 
that,  I  say,  is  a  good  thing,  for,  after  all,  the  home  is  the  foundation 
of  civil  society;  of  civilization  itself;  and  there  is  no  organization 
in  the  world,  that  I  know  of,  that  so  labors  with  humankind,  with  its 
membership  individually  and  collectively,  so  that  we  may  have  peace 
and  good  will  and  good  order  and  good  government,  as  this  organ- 
ization does.  It  is  quite  true,  as  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards  has 
stated  to  us  this  morning,  that  this  organization  called  "Mormonism," 
is  a  distinct  and  an  added  contribution  to  the  stability  and  permanency 
of  our  civil  government.  It  is  not  an  organization  in  opposition  to 
any  government,  or  to  any  church,  for  that  matter,  for  we  are  com- 
manded here  in  the  book  of  revelations  which  were  given  through 
the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  contend  against  no  church,  save  it  be 
the  church  of  the  devil,  which  means  that  we  should  contend  against 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


59 


wickedness  and  sin  and  all  that  goes  with  that,  but  that  we  are  not  to 
contend,  not  to  quarrel,  not  to  fight  among  ourselves  or  with  our 
neighbors  and  friends  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  nor  with  any  church 
or  any  organization  whatsoever.  Our  mission  is  peace  and  good  will ; 
good  order  ;  security  of  life  and  property  and  the  general  upbuilding 
of  the  community. 

It  is  astonishing  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  must  be,  I 
think,  td  every  student  of  history,  to  know  the  opposition  which  is  met 
by  an  organization  of  this  kind  with  such  righteous  intent  and 
producing  such  excellent  results  as  are  apparent  to  all  the  world ;  which 
men  cannot  help  but  see — the  good  works  which  have  been  accomp- 
lished by  this  organization.  It  is  astonishing,  I  say,  that  it  should  still 
meet  with  so  much  opposition.  It  is  true  that  when  anything  like 
this  comes  into  the  world  and  sets  itself  up  to  be  that  which  the  world 
has  not  hitherto  received:  to  be  a  little  better,  so  to  speak,  at  least  in 
advanced  thought,  and  also  in  achieving  results  for  good,  which  have 
not  hitherto  been  accomplished :  and  something  in  advance  of  any- 
thing that  the  world  has  hitherto  received ;  it  is  natural  I  say  that 
contention  should  be  aroused  against  it  for  a  short  time  until  its  mean- 
ing and  purpose  and  achievements  can  be  a  little  more  clearly  under- 
stood. It  is  true  that  when  people  come  to  us  and  say.  here  we  have 
something  better  than  you  have,  this  that  you  have  was  good,  in  its  time, 
and  was  a  sincerity  once,  but  you  have  "changed  the  laws,  transgres- 
sed the  ordinance,  and  broken  the  everlasting  covenant.''  Now  we 
have  brought  you  the  old,  true  and  everlasting  principles  back  again, 
restablished  with  divine  authority.  Naturally,  that  arouses  in  human 
nature  a.  spirit  of  resentment,  for  human  nature,  you  know,  rarely 
changes  ;  but  when  the  thing  has  been  put  to  the  test  and  demon- 
strated;  when  it  has  existed  and  grown  for  nearly  a  hundred  years, 
and  its  works  are  apparent,  and  its  principles  are  known  to  all  men 
who  will  look  into  it  with  unprejudiced  minds,  ought  it  not  to  receive 
more  favorable  consideration  ?  Yet,  even  now,  in  this  twentieth  cen- 
tury, with  never  before  such  means  of  information  and  communication 
between  countries  and  peoples,  knowledge  increased  until  books  and 
papers  are  published  by  the  million,  many  people  running  to  and  fro, 
people  coming  and  going  and  visiting,  learning  and  knowing  concern- 
ing us  ;  yet.  in  a  country  as  liberal  as  England,  there  could  be  raised, 
and  was  raised  during  last  year  such  a  howl,  going  aip  there  in  good 
old  liberal  England  as  to  what  great  and  terrible  things  the  "Mormons" 
were  doing,  bringing  over  shiploads  of  young  girls  to  be  made  polyga- 
mous wives,  and  all  that  sort  of  stuff  and  nonsense  that  anybody  who 
would  take  the  least  pains  to  investigate,  anyone  who  had  only  ordin- 
ary intelligence  would  know  was  absolutely  absurd  and  ridiculous,  and 
yet  it  was  believed  by  the  million. 

I  recall  that  some  fifty  years  ago,  after  the  Pacific  Railroad  was 
built  across  our  coun'ry,  Governor  Stanford  of  California,  president 
of  the  Central  Pacific  Railroad,  with  whom  I  happened  to  come  in 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


contact  a  few  times,  made  this  statement,  and  1  believe  he  made  it  also 
to  President  Young  himself ;  but  this  statement  I  heard,  that  he  con- 
sidered that  the  property  values  of  the  Central  Pacific  Railroad,  as  it 
was  then  called,  were  safer  in  the  territory  of  Utah  in  consequence  of 
the  "Mormon"  Church  being  there,  than  were  the  property  values  of 
their  lines  in  other  states  of  the  Union.  That  was  fifty  years  ago. 
Since  that  time  we  have  been,  and  are  being  much  better  known  as 
to  our  purpose ;  as  to  our  intent ;  as  to  the  righteousness  of  the  people. 
During  these  fifty  years,  times  without  number,  men  who  have  had 
large  interests,  large  investments,  men  of  prominence,  high  character 
and  great  ability,  men  who  cannot  be  hired  with  small  sums  of  money, 
but  who  command  the  highest  salaries  have  said  repeatedly,  and  I 
heard  one  of  them  say  in  substance,  the  same  thing  within  the  last 
few  weeks :  "We  consider  your  organization  a  direct  contribution  to 
safety,  to  observance  of  law  and  order,  to  that  which  is  permanent,  and 
we  appreciate  it."  That  is  the  voice  of  that  class  of  men;  the  judg- 
ment of  which  one,  I  will  say,  to  paraphrase  the  language  of  Hamlet, 
the  judgment  of  which  one  must  in  your  opinion  outweigh  a  whole 
multitude  of  others — others  who  are  rampant,  loud-mouthed,  blatant, 
defaming,  crying  down  the  Church,  complaining  of  the  Church.  I 
would  rather  take  the  judgment  of  the  men  whom  I  have  referred  to 
than  the  judgment  of  these  others.  There  are  some  that  we  have 
among  us.  and  always  will  have,  I  suppose,  once  in  awhile,  one  here 
and  one  there,  a  loud,  blatant  hireling,  here  and  there,  full  of  sound 
and  fury,  who  will  get  up  and  defame  and  try  to  tear  down  the 
Church,  signifying  nothing.  They  do  not  amount  to  anything.  They 
put  me  in  mind  of  a  story  that  my  Catholic  friend,  Joseph  Geoghegan 
used  to  tell.  He  told  the  story  of  an  Irishman  who  came  to  this 
country  and  secured  a  good  job.  He  wrote  back  to  his  friend:  "Pat, 
he  says,  "come  over.  I  have  got  an  iligant  job.  Oh,  it  is  a  beautiful 
job.  I  am  tearing  down  a  protestant  church,  and  I  am  getting  paid 
for  it."  So  that  is  the  case,  too,  with  some  of  these  others  who  yelp 
rather  loudly  against  the  "Mormon"  Church. 

The  "Mormon"  Church,  as  an  organization,  stands  for  peace. 
It  was  organized  by  the  Prince  of  Peace,  himself.  It  will  subdue  the 
world  through  the  process  of  peace — not  force.  I  was  glad  to  note 
that  President  Coolidge  the  other  day,  and  I  was  rather  surprised  at 
the  advanced  thought  that  he  gave  out,  speaking  of  the  Red  Cross'  he 
said :  "Here  is  an  organization  that  goes  about  doing  good  without 
any  compulsion  ;  without  any  force.  In  our  civil  government  we  are 
still  compelled  to  use  force,  but  the  higher  law  is  to  secure  the  cooper- 
ation and  harmony  of  society  by  moral  suasion  and  without  the  use 
of  force."  Now,  that  is  exactly  what  the  "Mormon"  Church  organ- 
ization is  doing.  There  is  no  force,  in  this  sense,  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ ;  no  compulsion  whatever.  Every  man  and  every  woman 
is  absolutely  free — free  to  do  as  they  please  with  respect  to  the  Church ; 
to  live  in  it ;  to  obey  its  principles  and  pay  tithes  or  not,  as  they  please, 


ELDER  CHARLES  IV.  NIB  LEY 


61 


but  they  are  persuaded  and  constrained  by  the  power  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord ;  they  are  grateful  to  be  impelled  by  a  spirit  which  comes 
from  God,  and  which  teaches  them  to  yield  willing  obedience  to  the 
righteousness  of  its  principles,    If  there  is  anything  lovely,  or  of  good 
report,  or  praiseworthy,  they  seek  after  these  things.    That  is  one  of 
the  articles  of  our  faith,  and  so,  I  say  to    my    discontented  non- 
"Mormon"  friends,  possess  your  souls  in  patience!    The  "Mormon" 
Church  is  here  to  stay.    The  "Mormon"  Church  is  here  to  fill  its 
mission,  which  is  a  mission  of  peace ;  which  contributes  to  good  gov- 
ernment; to  good  order;  to  righteous  living;  to  all  that  makes  for  a 
higher  and  better  civilization.    And  it  is  accomplishing  great  results 
in  respect  to  this.    Is  it  not  a  good  thing,  think  you,  for  an  organiza- 
tion to  have  brought  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  from  distant 
lands,  from  all  over  the  world,  and  planted  them  here?    They  are 
infinitely  better  off  here.    They  own  their  own  homes ;  they  own 
their  own  land;  they  are  free  men,  free  women.    Isn't  all  that  good? 
That  is  what  all  our  Chambers  of  Commerce,  Commercial  Clubs,  and 
other  organizations  of  that  kind,  are  seeking  for — to  bring  people  here 
who  will  build  homes;  who  will  help  build  up  the  country,  cultivate 
the  isoil  and  increase  production  of  the  necessaries  of  life.    I  say,  all 
that  is  good.    I  believe  that  everyone — even  those  embittered  in  their 
narrow  souls  against  the  Church  must  concede  this.    For  it  is  good. 
Then,  what  is  there  wrong  about  it?   I  can  find  nothing  in;  the  Church 
discipline  that  is  wrong.    Nothing  in  the  Church  principles  that  is 
wrong.  Individuals  may  sometimes  go  wrong.  You  and  I,  we  may  go 
wrong,  and  do,  doubtless,  at  times,  but  the  principles  that  govern  this 
organization;  all  that  this  organization  stands  for,  makes  for  right- 
eousness and  for  the  well-being  of  the  citizens  of  this  country,  for 
that  which  Elder  Richards  so.  forcefully  and  plainly  pointed  out  to  us 
this  mornnig,  the  establishing,  upholding,  maintaining  of  the  govern- 
ment of  these  United  States.    That  is  what  this  organization  is  here 
for.    I  repeat,  it  is  to  bring  peace  to  the  world,  not  contention.  It 
begins,  as  I  said  before,  at  the  home.    It  spreads  to  the  little  com- 
munity governed  by  the  bishop  of  the  ward ;  all  the  agencies,  all  the 
powers  of  the  Priesthood  that  can  be  used  to  promote  well-being  by 
persuasion ;  by  long-suffering ;  by  kindness  and  knowledge,  by  love 
unfeigned;  no  force,  no  compulsion!    All  these  are  used  to  promote 
the  well-being  of  humankind.    What  a  splendid  thing  it  is  to  be  en- 
gaged  in  a   work   of  this   kind.      These    agencies    our  Church 
is  using  every  day  to  bring  to  pass  the  establishment  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  on  the  earth,  and  I  say  that  is  a  splendid  thing,  the  best  that 
man  can  be  engaged  in. 

Only  the  other  day  a  very  prominent  gentleman  from  New  York, 
who  is  in  charge  of  large  interests  in  this  state,  said  to  me:  "Through 
your  organization  you  .seem  to<  have  your  feet  more  solidly  on  the 
ground,  with  more  of  that  which  makes  for  safety  and  security  right 
here  in  Utah,  than  we  find  in  any  other  part  of  the  country." 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  say  in  closing  that  we  have  it  of 
record,  that  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  the  time  would  come 
when,  through  secret  organizations  taking  the  law  into  their  own 
hands,  not  being  governed  by  law  or  by  due  process  of  law,  but  becom- 
ing a  law  unto  themselves,  when,  by  those  disintegrating  activities, 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  would  be  so  torn  and  rent 
asunder,  and  life  and  property  and  peace  and  security  would  be  held 
of  so  little  value,  that  the  Constitution  would,  as  it  were,  hang  by  a 
thread.  But  he  never  said,  so  far  as  I  have  heard,  lhat  that  thread 
would  be  cut.  I  believe,  with  Elder  Richards,  that  this  Constitution 
will  be  preserved,  but  it  will  be  preserved  very  largely  in  consequence 
of  what  the  Lord  has  revealed  and  what  this  people,  through  listen- 
ing to  the  Lord  and  being  obedient,  will  help  to  bring  about,  to  sta- 
bilize and  give  permanency  and  effect  to  the  Constitution  itself.  That 
also  is  our  mission.  That  also  is  what  we  are  here  for.  1  glory  in 
it.    I  praise  Cod  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  that  I  am  a  member  of  it. 

I  know  the  work  is  true.  The  Lord  has  established  it.  You  know 
that  also,  and  when  the  hands  of  the  elders  at  the  waters  of  baptism 
were  laid  upon  your  heads  and  it  was  said  unto  you,  "Receive  ye  the 
Holy  Ghost',  that  you  did  receive  and  have  continued  to  receive  until 
there  has  grown  within  you  a  power,  a  potency,  a  spirit  which,  when 
you  yield  to  and  live  by,  makes  you  better  everv  way.  You  know  that 
it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  lo  this  people,  to  this  nation,  and 
to  all  the  world,  and  the  time  will  come,  as  the  prophet  of  the  old 
Bible  has  declared,  when  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  con- 
fess that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to  the  glory  of  God  the  bather.  But  it 
will  never  be  done  by  force.  The  knee  will  willingly  bow,  gladly 
bow  and  acknowdedge  that  here  is  the  best  government ;  here  is  the 
best  that  has  been  produced  on  earth  in  the  way  of  good  government 
and  good  ordef  and  security  and  justice  and  righteousness  and  mercy, 
just  as  men  do  now  acknowledge,  those  thinking  men  and  wise  men 
that  have  investigated  this  system,  that  here  is  the  best  there  is  any- 
where that  can  be  found.  So  in  time,  all  over  the  world,  the  knee  will 
bow,  the  acknowledgment  will  be  made,  not  through  force  nor  com- 
pulsion, but  willingly,  loyally,  with  gratitude  and  praise  to  God  that 
he  has  so  established  his  work  that  man  may  see  what  he  has  done, 
and  they  will  glorify  his  name  and  adhere  to  it. 

That  the  Lord  will  hasten  it  all  in  his  time,  I  humbly  pray,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

(Member  of  Congress,  Former  President  of  the  Uintah  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  the  brethren  were  called  so  un- 
expectedly yesterday  from  their  places  in  the  audiences,  to  speak,  the 
words  of  the  late  President  Anthon  H.  Lund  came  to  me,  which  he 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


63 


spoke  many  years  ago  to  a  group  of  missionaries  who  were  leaving 
for  their  fields  of  labor.  1  happened  to  be  one  of  that  band.  Said 
he,  "When  you  are  called  to  speak,  it  matters  not  how  suddenly  that 
call  conies,  if  you  will  remember  the  "sixth  verse  of  the  fourteenth 
chapter  of  Revelations,  and  if  you  have  a  testimony  that  the  prophecy 
therein  recorded  has  been  fulfilled,  bear  that  testimony  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  occasion  will  give  you  utterance. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  this  morning  that  I  know  the  gospel  is 
true,  and  that  the  angel  has  come  to  which  the  Revelator  referred 
when  he  said : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and1  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come;  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

This  conference  has  partaken  somewhat  of  the  nature  of  a  com- 
memorative service  of  that  event.  Two  great  events  have  rather 
grown  together  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  namely :  the  coming  of 
the  Angel  Moroni,  in  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy  that  I  have  quoted, 
and  the  work  that  we  are  doing  in  our  temples,  for  the  dead.  Some 
one  has  said  that  the  truest  test  of  any  doctrine  is  whether  or  not  it 
can  lie  and  is  being  translated  into  the  lives  of  those  who  believe  it.  One 
of  the  speakers  yesterday,  in  referring  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  said  that 
the  greatest  evidence  of  its  truth  is  found  in  the  book  itself.  So  with 
"Mormonism"  as  a  whole,  the  greatest  evidence  of  its  truthfulness  is 
found  in  its  teachings  and  in  its  practices,  and  in  the  effects  it  has  had 
upon  the  lives  of  those  who  have  accepted  it.  The  building  of  temples, 
the  constant  work  being  done  therein,  the  desire  that  comes  into  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  men  and  women  everywhere  to  work  for  their  dead 
relatives,  are  direct  fulfilments  of  the  prophecy  that  Moroni  made  that 
God  would  send  Elijah  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children, 
and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  he  come  and  smite  the 
earth  with  a  curse.  Where  else  in  all  the  world  are  the  hearts  of  the 
children  turning  to  the  fathers  that  have  gone  before?  T  feel  an  absolute 
assurance,  this  morning,  that  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  that  have  gone  be- 
fore are  turning  to  their  children,  else  why  the  desire  to  do  this  work- 
that  is  being  done  in  our  temples,  and  the  desire  that  comes  into  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  the  children  of  men  everywhere,  who  accept  the 
gospel,  to  come  to  these  temples.  How  the  words  of  our  President  yes- 
terday morning  appeal  to  us  who  are  living!  How  we  have  thrilled  as 
we  have  listened  to  those  who  have  spoken,  and  we  want  the  instructions 
they  have  given  unto  us  to  become  translated  into  our  lives.  How  we 
have  resolved  to  reflect  those  teachings,  to  make  of  ourselves  examples 
worthy  of  imitation ! 

Oh,  I  am  not  afraid  of  the  assaults  without,  if  we  can  but  set 
our  own  houses  in  order ;  if  we  can  keep  our  own  lives  clean,  I  am  not 
afraid  of  the  result.   They  who  fight  this  work  forget  one  thing,  namely : 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  assurance  given  to  every  individual  member  of  its  truthtuiness. 
What  does  it  matter  to  us  if  they  fight  our  leaders?  We  do-  not  sus- 
tain these  men  solely  because  they  are  good  men.  We  sustain  them 
because  there  is  an  assurance  in  our  hearts  that  God  has  spoken 
from  the  heavens,  that  he  did  send  the  Angel  Moroni  to  reveal  the 
Book  of  Mormon  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Before  they  can  up- 
root in  our  souls  the  testimony  that  our  faith  has  planted  there,  nay, 
that  the  Spirit  of  God  has  planted  there,  concerning  the  truthful- 
ness of  "Mormonism,"  they  must  do  more  than  attack  the  leadership 
of  this  Church ;  they  must  convince  us  that  we  are  wrong,  that  our 
homes,  started  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  are  not  good  homes.  Oh, 
I  know  they  attack  "Mormonism"  because  they  say  it  is  not  conducive 
to  good  homes.  How  little  they  know  of  what  they  speak  when  they 
say  that ! 

A  few  months  ago  I  happened  to  be  in  the  office  of  a  man  who 
holds  a  high  position  in  this  government.  I  noticed  above  his  desk 
a  picture  of  Brigham  Young.  I  commented  upon  it.  He  said:  "Yes, 
I  am  making  a  collection  of  the  photographs  of  all  the  great  men  that 
have  been  born  in  Vermont.  I  regard  Brigham  Young  as  one  of  the 
greatest,  because,"  said  he,  "he  taught  the  necessity  of  home  building, 
the  necessity  of  going  out  upon  the  land  and  possessing  it ;  and  if  all  the 
people  everywhere  would  teach  and  practice  it  as  Brigham  Young 
taught  it,  America  would  be  safe." 

They  who  seek  to  uproot  this  testimony  in  our  souls  must  con- 
vince us  that  our  fathers  and  mothers  were  wrong  when  they  bore  tes- 
timony to  us  as  little  children,  day  after  day  of  the  truthfulness  of  this 
work,  of  the  divinity  of  Joseph  Smith's  mission.  They  must  show  me 
that  my  own  mother  when  she  sent  me  forth  as  a  missionary,  was 
mistaken  when  she  said:  "Though  your  going  grieves  me,  and  I  am 
sorry  for  the  parting,  yet  I  want  you  to  go,  and  I  want  you  to  remem- 
ber this  one  thing :  I  can  bear  to  see  you  go ;  and  I  can  bear  to  see 
you  come  back,  if  necessary,  in  your  casket,  if  God  wills  it,  but  I 
cannot  bear  to  have  you  come  back  unclean  or  untrue  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel  which  I  know  to  be  true." 

More  than  that,  God  takes  these  missionaries  who  go  out  as  stam- 
mering, hesitating  boys  and  girls,  standing!  upon  the  street  corners 
in  humility,  asking  for  his  help,  and  makes  of  them  mighty  preachers 
of  the  gospel,  insomuch  that  they  are  able  to  confound  the  learned 
men  of  the  world.  Those  who  would  destroy  this  work  must  make 
these  men  and  women  believe  that  that  spirit,  which  enables  them  to  do 
that,  is  a  delusion  and  a  snare. 

More  than  that  they  must  make  us  all  believe  that  the  testimony 
which  has  come  to  us  in  the  lonely  hours  of  our  lives,  when  we  have  been 
alone  upon  the  mountain  tops  or  out  on  the  prairies,  when  God  has  been 
with  us  and  the  conviction  has  come  overwhelmingly  to  our  souls  of 
the  truthfulness  of  this  work  and  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  false.    They  must  make  us  believe  that  when 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


65 


we  have  sat  in  the  meetings  of  this  conference  and  listened  to  the  in- 
spiring words  of  our  beloved  president  and  other  speakers,  and  the 
witness  is  given  to  us  that  what  they  say  is  true,  is  a  delusion  and  a 
snare. 

For  be  it  known  that  "Mormonism"  rests  upon  the  testimony  that 
God  gives  to  his  children  of  its  truthfulness.  If  you  will  do  the  work 
you  shall  know  whether  these  men  speak  of  God  or  whether  they  speak 
of  themselves. 

In  humility  add  with  all  the  earnestness  of  my  soul  I  bear  tes- 
timony that  I  know  that  the  Angel  Moroni  came  and  revealed  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  that  Joseph  Smith  w:as  the  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God  of  establishing  upon  the  earth  God's  Church,  through 
which  his  gospel  may  he  preached  to  all  the  world;  and  I  bear  wit- 
ness of  its  truthfulness  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the 
day  of  salvation." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Robert  I.  Burton,  presi- 
dent of  the  Mt.  Ogden  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  ad j  ourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  afternoon  meeting  was  opened  at  2  o'clock,  October  6,  1923. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  choir  and 
congregation  would  sing  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

After  the  singing  of  the  hymn,  Elder  Joseph  R.  Murdock,  of  the 
Wasatch  stake  of  Zion.  offered  prayer. 

A  solo,  "Be  thou  faithful  unto  death,"  was  ,sung  by  Elihu  Call. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  am  very  glad,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  the  am- 
plifiers installed,  and  I  hope  they  are  in  working  order,  for  I  have 
such  a  cold  and  hoarseness  that  hut  for  these  helps  I  fear  .1  would 
not  be  able  to  make  you  all  hear.  I  sincerely  hope  to  be  able  to  say 
something  to  you  this  afternoon  which  will  be  worthy  of  your  hear- 
ing. 

A  PHASE  OF  THE  ANGEL  MORONl'S  MESSAGE. 

In  the  brief  period  of  time  which  I  have  been  invited  to  oc- 
cupy this  afternoon,  I  desire  to  speak  upon  that  phase  of  the  Angel 
Moroni's  message  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  which  relates  directly 
to  the  salvation  for  the  dead,  or  as  we  commonly  speak  of  it,  gene- 
alogy and  temple  work.  Genealogy  and  temple  work  go  hand  in  hand. 
In  both  are  seen  the  spirit  of  Elijah  and  the  accomplishment  of  one 
would  be  impossible  without  the  accomplishment  of  the  other,  that  is 
to  say,  the  temple  work  and  salvation  for  our  (dead,  would  be  impossible 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  accomplishment  without  first  having  a  knowledge,  some  genealogy, 
of  our  dead.  I  realize  that  there  are  many  people  who  do  not  ac- 
cept of  the  visitation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith 
as  a  truth,  therefore  I  desire  to  read  three  verses  from  the  Old 
Testament,  which  all  good  Christians  claim  to  believe,  and  which 
bears  upon  this  subject. 

SCRIPTURE  "REARING  ON  THE  SUBJECT. 

I  will  read  the  first,  the  fifth  and  the  sixth  verses  of  the 
fourth  chapter  of  Malachi: 

"For,  behold,  the  day  cometh,  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven;  and  all  the  proud, 
yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly;  shall  be  stubble;  and  the  day  that  cometli 
shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  'it  shall  leave  them  neither 
root  nor  branch. 

"Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord : 

"And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the 
heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with 
a  curse." 

I  doubt  if  there  was  any  man  living  at  the  time  of  the  visita- 
tion of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  Joseph  Smith  who  could  properly  in- 
terpret this  passage  of  scripture.  There  was  very  little  information 
among  men  upon  the  earth  at  that  time  in  regard  to  this  very  im- 
portant principle  of  the  salvation  for  the  dead,  and  the  visitation  of 
the  Angel  Moroni  and  his  message  were  the  first  word  in  this  dis- 
pensation in(  regard  to  the  matter.  The  angel,  referring  to  this 
same  subject,  while  addressing  the  boy  Joseph  said: 

"For  behold,  the  day  cometh  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the  proud, 
yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  burn  as  stubble ;  for  they,  that  come  shall 
burn  them,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither  root 
nor  branch." 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers;  if  it  were 
not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 

THE  INTERPRETATION. 

An  explanation  of  the  meaning  of  these  passages  of  scripture 
is  given  in  the  128th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
reads  as  follows: 

"It  is  sufficient  to  know,  in  this  case,  that  the  earth  will  be  smitten  with 
a  curse  unless  there  is  a  welding  link  of  some  kind  or  other  between  the 
fathers  and  the  children,  upon  some  subject  or  other — and  behold  what  is  that 
subj«ct?  It  is  the  baptism  for  the  dead.  For  we  without  them  cannot  be  made 
perfect ;  neither  can  they  without  us  be  made  perfect.  Neither  can  they  nor  we 
be  made  perfect  without  those  who  have  died  in  the  gospel  also." 

It  would  seem  from  the  quotation  made  by  the  angel  to  Joseph 
that  the  earth  would  be  wasted  at  the  coming  of  our  Lord,  if  we  do 
not  do  this  important  work,  if  the  hearts  of  the  children  be  not,  in 


ELDIiR  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


67 


this  dispensation,  turned  unto  their  fathers ;  which,  interpreted  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  means :  if  we  do  not  consider  our  dead  ances- 
tors, those  who  have  gone  before,  obtaining  sufficient  knowledge 
and  genealogy  concerning  them  that  will  enable  us  to  go  into  the 
temples,  builded  for  that  purpose,  and  there  perform  this  import- 
ant work  of  baptism.  But  be  it  known,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
and  friends,  that  not  only  is  it  necessary  that  our  dead  who  have 
not  had  the  opportunity  in  life  of  hearing  and  embracing  the  gos- 
pel shall  have  the  opportunity  of  hearing  it  on  the  other  side 
and  shall  have  the  privilege  of  baptism  by  proxy  by  their  living 
friends,  but  it  is  necessary  that  every  ordinance  of  the  gospel  that 
is  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  shall  also  be  administer- 
ed by  proxy  for  the  dead. 

Some  will  say  they  do  not  believe  in  this  proxy  business.  To 
me,  one  may  as  well  say  that  he  does  not  believe  in  the  atonement 
which  was  wrought  out  by  our  Lord  and  Savior  for  the  redemption 
of  the  human  family;  for  that  is  certainly  a  work  of  proxy.  He 
becomes  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  mankind.  We  become  the  re- 
cipients of  the  blessings  of  the  atonement,  so  far  as  being  redeemed 
from  our  individual  sins  is  concerned,  only  when  we  have  accepted 
him  as  such,  and  when  we  have  accepted  of  his  mission  as  the  Re- 
deemer and  Savior  of  the  world.  So  men  are  authorized  to  act  for 
the  Lord  by  authority  given  them,  and  do  for  their  dead  kindred,  a 
proxy  work;  thus  they  may  become  Saviors  of  men.  So  that  with 
those  for  whom  the  work  shall  be  done  properly,  as  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed it  through  his  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph,  when  they  ac- 
cept of  the  work  done,  it  becomes  efficacious  for  their  salvation. 

RESPONSIBILITY  UPON  THE  PERSON,  THE  CHURCH  AND  THE  WORLD. 

With  regard  to  this  expression:  if  it  were  not  so  the  whole 
earth  would  be  smitten,  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming,  it 
seems  to  me  that  this  refers  not  only  to  the  individual  members  of 
the  Church,  but  to  the  Church  as  a  whole,  and  not  only  to  us,  but 
to  the  people  of  the  world.  Elijah  came  in  fulfilment  of  the  pre- 
diction that  he  would  come  before  the  great  and  glorious  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  and  he  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  on  the  third  day  of  April, 
1836.  the  keys  of  the  dispensation  of  the  turning  of  the 
hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers;  and  he  told  them  on  that  oc- 
casion that  by  this  they  might  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day 
of  the  Lord  was  nigh,  even  at  our  doors.  Eighty-seven  and  one- 
half  years  have  passed  since  that  time.  We  are  that  much  nearer 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord,  and  his  coming  is  assured. 
Is  the  earth  going  to  be  wasted  at  his  coming?  I  firmly  believe  from 
my  experience  and  observation,  and  from  what  history  tells  us,  that 
there  has  never  been  a  time  since  the  visitation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to 
Joseph  Smith,  when  there  has  been  so  much  wickedness  as  now  in  the 


68 


GENERAL  C  X)  NFER  EX  C  E 


world  and  so  much  destruction  of  life  and  property,  all  fulfilling 
the  predictions  of  the  prophets,  being  signs  of  the  time  of  the  com- 
ing of  our  Lord  and  Savior. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  ELIJAH. 

When  Elijah  delivered  his  message,  there  went  forth  to  the 
world  a  spirit,  even  the  spirit  of  Elijah,  which  was  seen  in  Great 
Britain,  in  the  parliament  of  that  great  nation;  for  almost  immedi- 
ately, we  learn  from  the  history,  they  enacted  laws  making  it  oblig- 
atory  upon  the  parish  clerks  and  others  in  the  subdivisions  of  the 
government  of  Great  Britain  that  they  keep  correct  records,  rec- 
ords of  births,  records  of  deaths,  records  'of  marriages,  etc.,  the 
very  data  that  are  required  to  enable  us  to  perform  the  work  for 
our  dead  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord;  and  a  place  was  designated  for 
the  safe  keeping  of  these  records  as  they  became  completed.  In  Great 
Britain,  in  other  nations  of  Europe,  and  throughout  the  United 
States,  from  that  time  went  forth  a  spirit  and  a  desire  among  men 
to  know  of  their  kindred  dead,  such  as  had  never  been  witnessed  be- 
fore, and  genealogical  societies  were  organized,  and  men  and  women 
of  wealth  and  nobility  have  expended  their  fortunes  and  years  of 
their  time  in  searching"  for  the  very  information  that  we  desire  and 
need  in  order  to  discharge  ourselves  of  the  obligations  resting  up- 
on us  concerning  the  dead,  and  we  have  now  accessible  all  through 
the  country,  libraries  containing  thousands  and  thousands  of  print- 
ed histories  of  families  and  ol  branches  and  of  counties  and  shires 
and  parishes,  and  1  think  that  the  people  of  the  world  are  doing  their 
duty  in  this  respect,  perhaps  as  well  as  are  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  have  builded  temples  at  great  cost  and  are  maintaining  them  ar 
great  expense,  and  there  are  but  a  few  of  us  who  have  been  very 
active  in  looking  after  our  kindred  dead. 

IMPORTANCE    OF    TEMPLE  WORK. 

The  importance  of  this  work  was  stated  emphatically  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  when  he  said  that  the  Lord  has  never  laid  upon  this 
people  a  greater  responsibility  than  that  of  looking  after  their  dead, 
which  means,  inquiring  after  them,  learning  of  them,  building  tem- 
ples and  redeeming  them  by  administering  unto  them  the  saving  or- 
dinances of  the  gospel. 

The  gospel  is  preached  to  the  world ;  it  is  the  poor  of  the  world 
who  are  receiving  the  gospel.  This  work  in  the  Church  is  being 
performed  by  the  poor  of  the  Church.  Think  it  over,  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  have  men  of  means,  we  have  men  who  could  well  afford 
to  inquire  after  their  dead,  make  extended  research,  and  could  pay 
for  proxy  work  in  having  that  work  done,  and  men,  too,  who  are 
active  in  other  religious  lines  of  work,  who  seem  never  to  have  let 
this  important  question  enter  into  their  minds ;  who  have  never  been 
active  in  obtaining  genealogy  and  in  doing  temple  work.    My  motive 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


69 


is,  in  speaking  these  few  words  this  afternoon,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  might  inspire  in  the  minds  of  some  of  my  brethren  and  sisters 
who  have  been  neglectful  of  this  responsibility,  a  desire  and  a  de- 
termination to  take  up  this  work,  to  learn  where  their  responsibilities 
lie,  and  to  discharge  themselves  faithfully  of  these  responsibilities, 
while  they  have  the  opportunity. 

AN    OPPORTUNITY   TO   WORK   AT  HOME. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  extend  my  remarks  upon  this  sub- 
ject, which  is  one  of  the  most  glorious  and  most  important,  and  many 
examples  of  faithfulness  on  the  part  of  our  people  are  worthy  of 
the  emulation  of  the  whole.  I  would  that  all  could  know  the  sac- 
rifices which  some  are  making  in  these  temples,  and  in  obtaining 
a  genealogy  for  their  dead.  Those  who  cannot  go  abroad  to  preach 
the  gospel,  who  are  physically  disqualified,  men  who  are  wrapped 
up  in  business  and  professions,  so  that  they  cannot  answer  the  call, 
have  an  opportunity  here  at  home  to  ido  a  work  for  which  they  are 
well  adapted,  where  they  can  use  their  means  to  the  very  best  ad- 
vantage and  accomplish  just  as  great  and  glorious  a  work  as  if 
they  were  abroad  in  the  world  preaching  the  gospel.  Will  you  do 
it,  brethren  and  sisters?  That  is  the  question.  Are  we  going  to 
be  as  the  world — hearers  of  the  word  and  not  doers  of  it,  deceiving 
ourselves?  T  trust  this  will  not  be  the  case.  God  help  us  to  dis- 
charge our  duty  faithfully,  that  the  earth  may  not  be  wasted  at  his 
coming  and  that  we  may  not  be  reproached  when  our  life's  work  is 
ended,  with  having  neglected  our  dead,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  feel  very  weak  this  afternoon,  and  I  desire  your  assistance  and 
the  blessing  of  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  some- 
thing that  will  be  profitable  to  you. 

GRATITUDE  AND  THANKS  EXPRESSED 

My  soul  is  filled  with  a  deep  gratitude  that  I  cannot  express, 
for  membership  in  this  wonderful  organization.  I  am  thankful  that 
my  lot  has  been  cast  with  this  people,  I  am  grateful  that  I  was  born 
of  goodly  parents,  and  that  the  environment  of  my  life  has  been  such 
that  I  have  participated  in  the  greatest  blessings  that  the  Lord  has 
bestowed  upon  his  children.  While  listening  to  the  brethren  who 
have  addressed  us,  I  have  felt  to  pour  out  my  soul  in  thanksgiving  be- 
cause of  what  we  are  enjoying.  No  other  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth  have  been  honored  as  we  have  in  having  been  given  the  know  - 
ledge of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord.  Think  of  belonging  to  a  Church  that 
has  deposited  with  it  the  information  and  authority  that  is  necessary 
for  all  humanity  to  possess  before  they  can  realize  the  purpose  of  their 
creation. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  sometimes  feel  that  we  do  not  appreciate  the  Holy  Bible,  and 
what  it  contains,  and  these  other  scriptures,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  that  have 
been  referred  to  by  our  beloved  President  as  letters  from  our  heaven- 
ly Father.  They  may  be  so  received,  at  least  they  are  his  advice  and 
his  counsel  to  all  the  children  of  men  given  to  them  that  they  may 
know  how  to  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities,  that  their  lives 
may  not  be  spent  in  vain.  One  of  the  sorrowful  things  in  life  is 
to  see  a  man  or  a  woman  laid  away  in  Mother  earth  with  a  realiza- 
tion of  the  fact  that  they  have  refused  the  greater  blessings  that  our 
Father  offered  to  them,  and  have  continued  grasping  at  the  bubble 
that  has  itself  disappeared.  When  I  think  of  the  millions  of  God's 
children  in  the  world,  and  realize  how  little  they  are  striving  for 
the  things  that  are  really  worth  while,  I  feel  sad,  but  when  I  see 
tins  body  of  people  here  today — representatives  of  the  great  Church 
that  bears  the  name  of  the  Redeemer — and  realize  that  we  who  have 
accepted  the  gospel  have  been  chosen,  as  it  were,  from  among  the 
multitude  of  our  father's  children  to  understand  him  and  to  know 
why  we  are  here,  my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  and  praise  to  Him 
for  his  blessings  unto  us. 

We  believe  in  a  pre-existence.  The  Lord  has  taught  us  that  in 
the  Scriptures,  but  there  are  millions  of  those  who  profess  belief 
in  the  Floly  Bible  who  do  not  believe  in,  or  at  least  do  not  under- 
stand, what  pre-existence  really  means.  They  do  not  realize  that 
we  lived  before  we  came  here ;  they  do  not  comprehend  that  this 
body  has  been  given  to  us  as  a  reward  for  faithfulness  in  the 
spirit  world  before  we  came  here.  They  do  not  know  that  by  par- 
taking of  certain  ordinances  prescribed  by  our  heavenly  Father,  we, 
as  husbands  and  wives,  may  be  united  for  time  and  eternity  and  en- 
joy the  companionship  of  our  children  for  ever.  How  thankful  we 
should  be  for  that  knowledge  that  has  come  to  us. 

As  I  stand  here  now,  realizing  that  from  infancy  until  manhood 
I  had  the  teaching  of  a  loving  father  and  a  tender,  sweet  mother,  and 
that  I  had  explained  to  me  what  I  should  do  in  order  to  prepare  for 
eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  our  Father,  I  feel  grateful  indeed. 

If  I  were  to  think,  as  many  of  the  people  of  the  world  think, 
that  now  my  beloved  parents  are  gone,  they  have  passed  out  of  my 
life  forever  and  that  I  will  never  see  them  again,  that  would  deprive  me 
of  one  of  the  greatest  joys  that  I  have  in  life,  the  contemplation  of 
meeting  them  again,  and  receiving  their  welcome  and  their  affection, 
and  of  thanking  them  from  the  depths  of  a  grateful  heart.  These  are 
some  of  the  blessings  that  appeal  to  me  as  coining  through  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ. 

THIS  LIFE  IS   NOT  THE  END. 

I  am  thankful  that  there  has  been  revealed  to  us  and  made  plain 
in  this  latter-day  that  this  life  is  not  the  end,  that  this  is  but  a  part  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


71 


eternity,  and  that  if  we  take  advantage  of  our  privileges  here,  that 
this  is  but  the  stepping  stone  to  greater  and  more  desirable  conditions. 
We  are  all  of  us  passing  rapidly  to  that  time  when  we  will  be  called 
hence.  If  we  did  not  understand  that  there  is  a  future  life,  if  we 
did  not  realize  that  there  is  something  more  than  the  influence  that 
we  have  received  thus  far,  if  there  was  not  anything  but  the  vanity 
and  vexation  of  life  for  us  to  live  for  there  are  many,  it  seems  to 
me,  who  would  grow  weary  in  the  struggle  that  is  to  be  made  for 
existence  here.  But  in  the  mercy  of  our  heavenly  Father  he  has 
bestowed  upon  us  the  most  wonderful  gifts  that  come  to  human  kind. 
Think  of  the  tenderness  of  our  fathers  and  mothers,  reared  as  we  are 
under  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord ;  think  of  the  homes 
of  prayer  wherein  we  have  been  taught  that  we  must  pray  to  our 
heavenly  Father  if  we  would  be  pleasing  unto  him.  Think  of  the 
teachings  that  have  come  to  us  of  honesty,  of  industry,  of  integrity, 
of  sobriety,  of  purity,  and  cleanness  of  life.  Think  of  the  blessings 
that  have  come  to  us,  inspiring  in  us  charity  for  those  who  are  less 
fortunate  than  ourselves.  All  the  ideals  and  virtues  that  mankind 
has  known,  or  will  know,  have  been  bestowed  upon  the  members  of 
this  great  Church. 

NO  DOUBT  AS  TO  THE  OUTCOME 

We  are  not  in  doubt  as  to  what  the  outcome  will  be.  The  Lord 
has  not  only  said  unto  us,  ''In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions," 
"I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you,"  but  in  the  day  and  age  in  which 
we  live  the  Lord  has  described  the  very  places  lo  which  his  children 
may  hope  to  go.  He  has  explained  to  us  that  there  are  various  de- 
grees of  glory,  has  described  to  us  certain  requirements  which  must 
be  complied  with  if  we  would  enjoy  those  degrees  of  glory.  The 
man  who  drinks  with  the  drunken,  and  who  lives  an  immoral  life, 
and  who  gives  himself  up  to  evil  things,  should  not  hope  to  go  into 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  heavenly  Father,  for  the  Lord  has  said 
he  cannot  go  there.  But  the  people  of  the  world  do  not  understand 
that.  There  are  those  who  profess  Christianity,  who  believe  that  even 
the  murderer  who  has  imbrued  his  hands  in  the  blood  of  his  innocent 
victim  may,  by  saying  the  words,  "I  believe  in  Jesus  Christ,"  be 
ushered  into  the  presence  of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  This  is 
false  doctrine  and  I  am  thankful  that  this  people  are  not  deceived 
by  such  teachings,  but  that  on  the  contrary  we  are  placed  in  a  con- 
dition to  know-  how  we  may  obtain  the  blessing  of  Celestial  glory, 
and  not  be  disappointed. 

SOME  CHOICE  BLESSINGS  THAT  WE  ENJOY. 

I  am  glad  that  there  is  in  this  great  organization  a  determination 
to  sustain  the  laws  of  the  land  in  which  we  live.  I  am  grateful  for 
this  great  government  that  our  heavenly  Father  gave  to  us,  for  he 
has  said  that  he  raised  up  wise  men  to  prepare  for  us  the  Constitution 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  this  great  nation,  and  I  am  thankful  that  he  lias  given  unto  us  the 
revelation  that  as  long  as  the  people  of  this  land  work  righteousness, 
that  he  will  he  their  God  and  their  king,  and  that  no  other  kings  shall 
dwell  upon  this  land.  It  is  pleasing  to  know  that  this  land  has  been 
consecrated  to  liberty,  and  that  the  way  was  prepared  for  the  coming 
of  the  gospel  in  this  great  and  wonderful  nation. 

1  am  thankful  to  know  that  all  that  is  good  and  pure  and  holy,  all 
thai  is  sweet  and  that  is  worth  while  in  life,  may  be  enjoyed  by  the 
members  of  this  Church  within  the  folds  of  the  Church.  There  has 
not  been  withheld  from  us  one  single  blessing  that  mankind  may 
enjoy,  because  of  our  membership  in  this  Church.  (  )n  the  contrary, 
the  Lord  has  taught  us  to  be  brothers  and  sisters  in  very  deed,  and. 
not  only  has  he  given  to  us  the  Old  Testament  scriptures  and  the  New- 
Testament  scriptures,  but  he  has  given  to  us  the  American  volume  of 
scripture  that  supplements  the  teachings  of  the  divine  mission  of  our 
Lord,  and  in  our  day  has.  revealed  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  the  doctrines  that  are  necessarv  for  us  to  observe  in  order  that 
we  may  have  the  companionship  of  our  wives  and  our  children,  our 
fathers  and  our  mothers,  throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 

These,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are  some  of  the  choice  blessings 
that  the  Lord  has  bestowed  upon  us  in  this  day,  and  1  wonder  if  we 
appreciate  them.  All  that  he  has  asked  of  us  in  return  for  the  ful- 
ness of  the  earth,  all  that  he  has  asked  of  us  in  return  for  the  bless- 
ings of  this  life,  all  that  he  has  asked  us  to  do  in  order  that  we 
may  enjoy  eternal  life  in  his  celestial  kingdom,  is  to  follow  the  simple 
teachings  of  our  Lord,  that  he  has  given  to  the  children  of  men, 
that  all  men  may  follow  if  they  will,  and  while  doing  it,  peace  of 
mind,  contentment  and  happiness  may  be  theirs.  The  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  not  a  difficult  road  to  follow,  it  is  the  pathway  of  peace,  and 
gives  assurance  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  when  life's  labor  on 
earth  is  completed.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  does  not  reqire  us  to 
torment  ourselves  with  physical  pain.  On  the  contrary  it  teaches 
us  that  we  may  so  live  that  health  and  vigor  and  strength  will  be  ours, 
and  that  we  can  avoid  the  pains  and  anguish  that  are  the  result  of 
violation  of  our  Father's  laws. 

ARE  WE  WORTHY  TO  BE  CALLED  SAINTS? 

I  am  grateful  for  that  wonderful  Word  of  Wisdom,  simple  as  it 
is,  and  as  the  Lord  says,  "adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  or 
the  weakest  of  all  wdio  are  or  can  be  called  Saints."  I  pause  to  ask 
this  great  congregation,  are  we  worthy  to  be  called  Saints  ?  All 
who  hope  to  be  called  Saints  should  certainly  be  observers  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  And  what  does  it  mean  to  us?  It  gives  us 
sweetness  of  life,  it  takes  from  us  the  poisonous  vapors  that  many 
people  breathe  as  the  result  of  smoking  tobacco.  It  avoids  for 
us  that  nauseating  condition  that  is  the  result  of  chewing  tobacco. 
It  preserves  us.  if  we  observe  it,  from  the  infirmities  due  to  taking 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


73 


into  our  systems  the  narcotics  contained  in  tea  and  coffee,  and  from 
the  disatsrous  effects  of,  liquor  and  hot  and  strong  drink.  Our  heaven- 
ly Father,  not  only  tells  us  what  we  should  avoid,  but  tells  us  what 
we  may  use  with  profit.  He  has  said  to  us  that  all  grain,  all  whole- 
some herbs,  the  fruit  of  the  vine  etc.,  are  good  for  man.  Flesh  of 
beast  and  fowls  of  the  air;  and  these  things  he  refers  to  we  may  use 
wlith  prudence  and  thanksgiving ;  and,  I  want  to  emphasize  with 
thanksgiving. 

THE  LORD  OF   LORDS  OUR  TEACHER 

Brethren  and  sisters,  you  have  had  the  greatest  instructor  that 
the  world  knows  anything"  about.  You  have  had  for  your  school 
master  the  King  of  kings,  the  Lord  of  lords,  the.  Creator  of  the 
heavens  and  the  earth ;  who  in  his  wonderful  tenderness  and  con- 
sideration for  us  in  this  day,  has  sent  his  prophet  into  the  world  to 
explain  to  us,  and  to  make  clear  to  our  minds  the  things  that  he  gave 
to  the  world  hundreds  of  years  ago  that  have  been  misunderstood 
and  have  been  misinterpreted  very  much  to  the  detriment  of  our 
bather's  children.  But  in  our  day  he  has  renewed  to  us  the  truth,  has 
given  to  us  the  blessed  teachings  that  should  qualify  us  to  be  men  and 
women  after  his  own  heart,  has  held  out  to  us  the  promise  that  if 
we  will  do  the  things  that  he  advises  our  lives  will  be  pure  and  holy, 
peace  will  be  our  portion  here,  and  we  shall  dwell  with  him  through- 
out the  ages  of  eternity.  What  more  could  he  give  unto  us,  or,  as  has 
already  been  quoted  by  one  of  the  brethren :  "W  hat  more  can  he 
say  than  to  you  he  has  said,  you  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 
fled?" 

THANKFUL  FOR  NOBLE  MEN  TO  REPRESENT  X'S  IX  Till'.  NATION. 

I  felt  grateful  today  when  one  of  the  members  of  the  House  of 
Bepresentatives  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  our  great 
legislative  bod}',  stood  here  as  a  humble  representative  of  the  com- 
munity in  which  he  lives,  as  an  Elder  of  the  Church  and  testified 
of  the  truth,  while  at  Washington  he  should  radiate  an  influence  for 
the  uplift  of  every  soul  that  he  comes  in  contact  with  without  be'ng 
contaminated  with  the  evils  that  beset  mankind.  He  is  a  legislator 
of  the  greatest  nation  on  earth,  but  he  is  more,  he  is  a  representative 
of  our  heavenly  Father,  with  authority  to  officiate  in  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  for  the  blessing  of  mankind.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  him  and  his  brethren  wdio  are  there  with  him.  I  am  thankful 
that  by  reason  of  faith  and  good  works  we  see  men  rising  from  the 
ranks,  year  after  year,  to  stand  in  high  places  in  our  government, 
not  to  tear  it  down,  not  to  break  in  pieces  the  structures  that  have  been 
reared  by  others,  but  to  show  where  the  better  way  lies,  to  say  to 
the  children  of  men  who  are  crying  out  for  a  change,  and  who  are 
not  satisfied  with  conditions :  Let  us  legislate  that  we  may  all  live 
m  peace  in  the  land  and  that  we  all  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  while  we  live  upon  the  earth. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


LET  US  NOT  CHANGE  OUR  BLESSINGS  FOR  FOOLISH  ATTRACTIONS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  thankful  for  my  membership  in 
this  Church.  I  am  grateful  to  be  permitted  to  have  the  companionship 
of  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  prize  my  citizenship  in  this  great 
nation,  and  from  the  depths  of  my  soul  I  am  thankful  that  my 
lot  has  been  cast  with  you.  This  great  government  was  established  by 
our  Father,  this  land  was  prepared  by  him,  and  the  particular  part  of 
it  that  is  inhabited  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  beautified  until 
the  eyes  of  the  world  are  turned  towards  us,  because  of  the  pictur- 
esqueness  and  the  grandeur  of  the  home  that  the  Lord  has  prepared 
for  us.  He  has  blessed  us  with  all  this  and  with  every  comfort,  with 
the  loving  companionship  and  'association  of  wives  and  husbands  and 
parents  and  children  and  the  presidency  of  the  Priesthood  of  out- 
Lord.  Let  us  not  be  blinded  by  the  cunning  of  the  adversary  to 
exchange  any  of  these  wonderful  gifts  for  the  foolishness  that  at- 
tracts mankind,  for  the  pitfalls  that  have  been  prepared  by  the  enemy 
of  all  righteousness.  This  is  our  Father's  work,  this  is  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  ali  those  who 
believe  and  obey  it,  and  I  pray  that  we  who  are  here  this  day,  may 
return  to  our  homes  with  renewed  determination  to  be  loyal  and  faith- 
ful to  those  things  that  are  righteous,  and  that  we  will  live  to  honor 
him  who  gives  all  we  enjoy,  and  who  offers  us  the  blessings  of 
eternal  life,  eternal  progress,  eternal  increase  in  his  celestial  king- 
dom. May  the  Lord  help  us  to  merit  his  blessings,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

No  person  who  has  attended  the  sessions  of  this  conference  is  more 
thankful  to  our  heavenly  Father  than  am  I.  I  want  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  know  that  whenever  one  of  the  general  conferences  is 
held,  and  I  am  unable  to  attend,  I  feel  greatly  the  loss  of  it.  1  con- 
stantly pray  to  my  heavenly  Father  that,  on  account  of  conditions  that 
prevent  me  from  attending  the  conferences,  I  may  partake  of  the  same 
spirit  that  is  manifested  through  all  of  the  speakers  when  I  have  the 
privilege  of  reading  the  reports. 

APPRECIATION    OF    CONFERENCE    AND    THE  SPEAKERS. 

In  standing  before  you  this  day  I  crave  the  assistance  of  my 
heavenly  Father  in  what  I  may  say  at  this  conference.  I  trust  that 
I  may  have  the  same  degree  of  his  spirit  that  has  been  enjoyed  by  all 
the  former  speakers.  I  have  never  attended  conference  where  the 
testimonies  had  such  an  effect  upon  me,  beginning  with  that  of  the 
President  of  the  Church  and  continuing  with  every  speaker  that  fol- 
lowed him.  My  soul  and  spirit  said :  "Amen"  to  the  many  truths 
uttered,  and  to  the  testimonies  borne.  I  have  heard  President  Grant 
bear  his  testimony  to  his  knowledge  of  this  gospel  many  times.  I  have 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


75 


heard  him  speak  since  he  has  been  President  of  the  Church,  but  never 
in  my  life  have  I  been  impressed  with  the  power  that  he  exercises, 
through  the  gift  of  God,  as  in  his  opening  address  at  this  conference. 
As  President  Penrose  stood  upon  this  stand,  a  servant  who  has 
declared  the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  for  seventy-two  years, 
I  believe,  even  before  any  of  the  other  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  were  born,  and  with  the  power  that  he  exercised,  granted  to  him 
by  God;  and  the  truths  that  were  uttered  rang  through  my  soul,  and 
I  thanked  God  for  such  men. 

CONDITIONS  IN  THE  CHRISTIAN  WORLD 

Much  has  been  said  at  this  conference  as  to  the  conditions  existing 
in  the  world,  based  upon  the  predictions  of  the  prophets  of  the  liv- 
ing God.  It  called  to  my  attention  the  fact  that  on  July  27,  this  year, 
Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  I  were  in  Sweden,  and  at  that  time  the 
great  Baptist  congress  or  conference  of  the  Baptist  churches  in  all 
the  world  was  held  there,  and  an  account  of  the  meetings  held  upon 
that  day  was  cabled  to  the  New  York  Times.  I  am  going  to  take 
the  time  now  to  read  from  the  New  York  Times  of  July  28.  this 
year,  a  report  of  that  particular  meeting.  It  is  dated,  Stockholm,  July 
27: 

"The  Christian  church  has  no  message  today  for  a  dying  world.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  Christian  church  is  preaching  many  gospels,  and  the  result 
is  confusion  and  failure,"  said  the  Reverend  Doctor  Curtis  Lee  Laws,  of  Brook- 
lyn, in  addressing  the  Baptist  World  Alliance  here  today.  "Audiences  arc  being 
rent  asunder  today,"  he  said,  "and  those  who  have  long  been  brethren  are  in 
warring  camps  contending,  not  only  over  non-essentials,  but  also  over  the  very 
fundamental  principles  of  Christianity.  If  this  theological  war  is  fought  to  a 
finish,"  he  said,  "at  least  the  present  generation  will  perish  for  lack  of  vision. 
Believing  in  the  sincerity  and  high  moral  character  of  these  theologians,  I  beg  of 
them,  in  the  name  of  Christ  and  perishing  humanity,  that  they  will  quietly  and 
lovingly  gather  about  the  table  with  God's  book  before  them  and  let  them  settle 
every  disputed  question.    That  book  is  the  ultimate  ground  for  authority." 

A  MESSAGE  FOR  THE  WORLD 

I  might  add,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  a  message  in  the 
world  today  for  all  its  peoples.  God  has  revealed  to  his  servants  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  was  given  through  his  ser- 
vants, as  a  message  to  the  world,  and  humble  as  our  missionaries  may 
be  in  presenting  that  message  to  the  world,  dying,  as  the  minister  has 
already  said,  for  want  of  a  message,  if  it  were  heeded  by  the  world 
today,  existing  conditions  could  not  be  as  they  are.  It  is  true  that  there 
is  a  suffering"  world,  it  is  true  that  there  are  dissensions;  among  all  the 
sects  of  the  world,  it  was  true  when  God  spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
calling  his  particular  attention  to  it,  and  it  will  be  true  until  the  world 
accepts  the  message  that  God  has  given  in  this  last  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  time.  Ridicule,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  not  going  to 
change  that  message,  and  the  mere  fact  that  someone  says  that  in  this 
enlightened  age,  the  people  of  this  dispensation,  in  this  day  of  under- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


standing  and  enlightenment,  will  never  believe  that  the  Angel  Moroni 
appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  he  did  deliver  the 
golden  plates  to  him,  just  as  the  Prophet  testified. 

THE  PROBABILITY  OF  ITS  TRUTH 

Mere  ridicule  of  such  a  statement  does  not  make  it  untrue.  Is  it 
any  more  difficult  to  believe  that  an  angel  from  heaven  did  just  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  stated,  deliver  those  plates  to  him  and  usher  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  practically  every  prophet  in  every  dispensation 
has  predicted — is  it  any  more  difficult  to  believe  that  than  for  the 
world's  Christian  people  to  believe  the  Bible?  Isn't  it  just  as  probable, 
if  they  want  to  use  that  word,  as  when  Moses  is  credited  with  the  power 
conferred  upon  him  by  God,  to  have  the  waters  of  the  Red  Sea  divide 
and  the  people  of  Israel  go  across  dry-shod,  is  there  any  more  mystery 
about  one  than  there  is  about  the  other?  If  God's  power  with  Elijah 
could  enable  him  to  stand  upon  the  banks  of  the  Jordan  and  smite  the 
waters  of  the  river  and  cause  them  to  divide  hither  and  thither,  and  he 
cross  over  dry-shod,  isn't  it  just  as  probable,  even  to  a  skeptic,  that  the 
truth,  as  delivered  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  as  it  occurred? 
There  are  too  many  recitals  of  incidents  in  the  Bible  that  are  much  more 
miraculous  than  the  fact  that  an  angel  from  heaven  showed  to  the 
boy  prophet  where  the  records  were  concealed. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  MOTHER 

Together  with  Brother  Widtsoe  1  had  the  privilege  of  visiting 
Europe  during  the  months  of  July  and  August.  While  thus  upon  a 
special  mission,  and  by  the  assistance  of  Brother  Widtsoe,  I  had  the 
privilege  of  visiting  the  Scandinavian  countries.  I  also  took  the  time 
during  my  last  visit  to  go  there,  primarily,  I  will  say,  to  visit  my 
mother's  old  home.  While  a  young  man  1  used  to  say  to  mother  :  "Some 
day  we  will  go  back  to  the  old  home."  I  left  it  too  late,  as  so  many 
things  are  put  off  until  it  is  too  late;  for  my  mother  died  when  she  was 
sixty  years  old.  But  I  made  up  my  mind  that  sooner  or  later  I  would 
go  to  the  old  home  and  see  some  of  my  relatives  there.  1  haven't  the 
time  today  to  express  to  you  the  feelings  I  had  when  I  stood  upon  the 
very  spot  where  she  was  born,  and  when  I  saw  the  old  homestead  as  it 
was.  When  I  went  into  the  old  cow-shed  and  opened  the  old  door 
that  she  had  opened  perhaps  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  times,  when  I 
looked  upon  the  spring  back  of  the  house,  that  I  had  heard  her  speak 
of  when  I  was  a  boy  and,  as  I  stood  under  the  shade  of  that  wonderful 
tree  her  mother  had  planted  and  which  she  used  to  tell  me  about ;  and 
as  1  saw  conditions  surrounding  that  homestead,  I  want  to  say  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  thanked  God  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  reached  my  mother,  and  that  she  knew 
it  was  true,  when  she  was  but  a  girl.  All  opposition  and  all  persecution 
on  the  part  of  her  father  and  her  mother  and  her  loved  ones  never  had 
one  iota  of  influence  upon  her  testimony  that  God  lived  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


77 


A  YOUNG  CONVERT  S  TELLING  TESTIMONY 

My  cousins  brought  to  me  the  old  family  Bible,  and  as  I  lifted  the 
lid  I  saw  a  writing  and  at  the  bottom  of  the  last  page  of  it  the  name 
"Anna  Kirstine  Mauritz-datter."  I  could  not  read  the  writing,  but  I 
asked  Brother  Widtsoe  to  copy  it  as  quickly  as  possible,  then  tell  me 
what  was  in  it.  I  desired  to  have  it  translated  word  for  word.  It  was 
a  message  to  her  parents  written  on  the  day  that  she  left  home — the  day 
she  was  driven  from  home  by  a  loving  father  and  mother  who  thought 
that  she  would  not  be  gone  very  long,  but  that  she  would  soon  return 
and  ask  forgiveness,  and  deny  that  she  knew  that  God  lived  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  She  was  only  a  girl,  then,  but  I  am  going  to  take 
time  now  to  read  to  this  congregation,  that  letter,  because  it  gives  forth 
the  spirit  that  makes  women  such  as  she.  It  is  filled  full  of  the  spirit 
of  our  fathers  and  mothers  who  were  willing  to  sacrifice  all  in  this 
world  for  the  gospel's  sake ;  aye,  it  is  the  spirit  of  a  missionary,  teaching 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  was  written  in  her  own  hand-writing, 
and  it  was  the  last  farewell  of  a  girl  who  loved  her  country,  who  loved 
her  father  and  mother,  and  who  loved  her.  home,  but  who  loved  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  more : 

"A  few  words  from  your  daughter  Kirstine,  Dear,  tny  parents  :  Pray  God 
for  courage  to  accept  this  great  truth  contained  in  this  book  and  now  restored, 
so  that  rejected  knowledge  may  not  be  a  testimony  against  you  on  God's  great 
day  to  come.  I  pray  God  that  on  that  great  day  we  may  be  able  to  gather  together 
in  joy  and  happiness,  and  that  we  may  then  be  crowned  to  God's  glory,  and  that 
he  may  say  to  us  all:  'Come  now,  my  faithful  children,  you  shall  be  rewarded 
for  your  labors.'  This  matter,  and  my  desire  that  you  may  know  the  truth  and 
accept  it,  have  made  me  shed  in  secret  many  burning  tears,  and  they  have  been 
increased  when  I  have  thought  of  the  ungodliness  of  mankind.  The  years  are 
speeding  on,  the  day  is  approaching  when  all  must  listen  to  the  Shepherd  and 
render  obedience  to  his  will,  or  receive  punishment.  The  great  King  is  coming 
to  reign  and  to  rule.  Sin  and  evil  will  be  banished.  May  God  grant  that  you  may 
be  among  the  worthy  ones.  My  heart  grows  tender  when  I  think  of  these  things. 
God  give  that  all  mankind  may  repent.  I  shall  pray  to  my  heavenly  Father  that 
all  who  read  these  lines  may  comprehend  the  true  purpose  of  his  holy  book,  and 
may  lay  down  the  burden  of  sin.  That  which  I  have  written  is  for  all  who  may 
read  these  lines.    I  pray  God  to  lead  you  into  eternal  lift. 

'  Kirstine  Maurits-datter,  Drammen,  Sept.  1,  1854." 

NOT  ASHAMED  ANYWHERE  OF  THE  RESTORED  GOSPEL  OF  CHRIST 

I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  I  am  not  ashamed 
of  the  testimony  of  the  mother  that  gave  me  birth.  I  care  not  where  I 
go  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  whether  it  be  with  kings,  potentates,  or 
any  class  of  people  in  the  world,  I  want  them  all  to  know  that  I  am  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  pray 
God  that  I  may  have  strength  to  do  those  things  that  he  wants  me  to  do, 
to  say  those  things  that  he  wants  me  to  say,  to  live  in  a  way  that  he 
wants  me  to  live,  and  bear  a  testimony  of  his  truth  and  of  his  work,  that 
will  be  worthy  of  a  man  who  comes  from  a  mother  such  as  I  had. 

THE  BURDEN  OF  WAR  THE  RESULT  OF  THE  BURDEN  OF  SIN 

Yes,  the  burden  of  sin  today,  the  cause  of  the  World  war,  and  the 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

if 

resulting  burdens  of  debt,  are  on  the  backs  of  the  people  of  Europe,  and 
if  they  are  fortunate  enough  to  live,  and  if  there  is  peace  in  the  world  for 
another  hundred  years,  they  will  not  entirely  remove  the  burdens  that 
have  been  placed  upon  them  as  a  result  of  the  world  war. 

Let  me  cite  you  a  case:  Take  England,  with  her  forty-five  mil- 
lions of  people.  I  mean  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  not  all  of  her  col- 
onies nor  any  of  them.  What  do  we  find?  Forty-five  millions  of 
people  carrying  a  burden  of  over  eight  hundred  dollars  for  every  man, 
woman  and  child.  We  find  the  average  tax  imposed  upon  them  equal 
to  one  hundred  and  two  dollars  every  year,  for  every  man,  woman 
and  child.  We  find  that  the  costs  of  the  last  war,  to  England,  were 
more  than  the  maintaining  of  the  British  government  for  two  hundred 
and  twenty-six  years,  including  all  former  wars.  We  find  hardly  a 
home  in  all  England  but  what  there  came,  through  that  war,  the  death 
of  one  or  more  of  the  family.  We  find  unrest  even  there,  and  1  want 
to  say  now  to  the  good  people  here  that  I  pray  God  that  the  time  never 
will  come  when  the  English  speaking  peoples  of  the  world  will  become 
enemies.  I  never  want  to  see  a  conflict  between  England  and  America  ; 
for  if  it  ever  comes,  just  as  surely  as  God  lives,  the  English  speaking 
peoples  of  the  world  will  not  thereafter  control  the  destinies  of  the 
world. 

WORLD  CAN  BE  SAVED  ONLY  BY  A  KNOWLEDGE  OF  GOD  AND  THE  USE  OF 

COMMON  SENSE 

I  have  started,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  upon  a  subject  that  will 
take  too  much  time.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God,  and  the  only  thing,  it  seems  to  me,  that  will  save  the  world  today 
is  to  acknowledge  God  and  use  good  common  sense.  I  hope  and  trust 
that  the  members  of  the  Church  will  be  even  more  willing  to  serve  God 
than  they  have  been  in  the  past.  Look  to  your  homes,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  See  that  the  home  is  made  the  place  where  all  in  it  will  thank 
God  for  his  many  mercies,  and  are  willing  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
all  things.  May  God  bless  not  only  our  people  here,  but  bless  all  the 
peoples  of  the  world,  and,  as  we  often  pray,  hasten  the  day  when  Zion 
shall  be  redeemed,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission.) 

I  do  not  know  that  I  have  ever  attended  a  conference  when  I  have 
felt  more  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  power  of  testimony  than  in 
this  conference;  and  I  trust  that  I  may  enjoy  a  continuation  of  God's 
Holy  Spirit  and  be  led  to  say  that  which  he  would  have  me  say  at 
this  time. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  growing  and 
will  continue  to  grow  until  it  fills  the  earth.  Daniel,  a  prophet  of 
God,  made  such  a  prediction,  and  it  will  not  fail  for  God's  word  has 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN  N  ION 


79 


never  failed.  Men  have  failed  but  his  word  has  never  failed,  neither 
has  the  word  of  his  servants.  Wicked  men,  for  periods  of  time,  have 
prevented  his  power  from  growing  in  the  earth,  but:  when  opportunity 
has  come  and  when  it  has  been  expedient,  he  has  restored  it  again. 
This  power  he  gave  unto  Adam  and  it  has  been  in  the  earth;  whenever 
his  authority  has  been  in  the  earth  in  the  different  dispensations  of  the 
gospel.  The  strength  of  the  Church,  it  has  been  said,  does  not  lie  in 
its  numbers,  or  in  its  wealth,  or  even  in  its  educational  work,  but  it 
is  vested  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which  the  Lord  our  God  has 
revealed. 

We  are  accounted  a  strange  people  and  a  peculiar  people  by  some, 
and  it  is  true,  in  a  way,  that  we  are.  Our  belief  separates  us  from 
the  rest  of  the  world  gathered  together  in  the  great  churches  of  the 
day.  As  they  meet  to  worship  our  Father,  they  are  taught  doctrines 
that  are  not  in  harmony  with  the  gospel  as  the  Lord  gave  it  unto 
Adam,  Noah,  and  Abraham  and  unto  all  who  represented  him  in  the 
earth  before  the  Christ,  and  as  he  restored  it  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times.  Think  of  the  millions  of  people  called  Christians 
'who  today  are  worshiping  a  Father  without  body  or  parts  or  passions 
and  who  sits  on  the  top  of  a  topless  throne — something  that  really 
could  not  be ;  yet  men  and  women  enlightened  by  the  theology  of  men 
and  by  the  science  of  the  earth  believe  that  their  Father  and  your 
Father  and  mine  is  without  a  body  and  without  form.  They  believe 
also  that  they  had  their  beginning  here.  Go  where  you  may  you  will 
find  few  if  any  public  speakers  in  any  of  the  churches  of  the  day  who 
teach  the  ante-mortal  state  of  man.  They  do  not  believe  in  preexist- 
ence.  They  believe  that  Christ  existed  before  but  that  man  had  his 
beginning  here.  They  believe  that  a  man's  life  here  is  the  end  of  his 
opportunity  to  work,  that  the  Lord  has  provided  a  way  for  him  and  all 
he  has  to  do  is  to  acknowledge  the  Christ  and  be  saved  regardless  of 
the  life  that  he  has  lived. 

It  is  no  wonder  that  mere  boys  and  girls  who  are  sent  into  the 
world,  can  "hold  their  own"  with  the  great  leading  minds  of  the  country 
who  study  the  scripture  for  their  guide.  These  missionaries  have  the 
truth,  the  power  of  truth.  The  fact  that  a  man  is  on  the  right  side 
and  has  the  right  to  operate  and  to  stand  for  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  makes  him  strong.  It  is  no  wonder  that  boys  in  the  missionary 
field  can  hold  meetings  night  after  night,  occupying  one  and  two 
hours  at  a  time,  preaching  to  the  congregations  of  the  world  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  when  we  know  that  they 
have  the  truth. 

The  things  that  our  missionaries  accomplish  are  almost  miracles. 
During  the  past  summer,  in  the  Central  States  Mission,  two  of  our 
missionaries,  and  one  of  them  with  only  a  few  months'  experience, 
have  held  as  many  as  ten  meetings,  night  after  night.  The  same 
congregation  of  people  came  again  and  again  to  hear  them  discuss  the 
principles  of  revealed  religion :  that  God  who  sits  enthroned  in  yonder 


80 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


heavens  is  an  immortal  Being  who  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bone  and 
that  we  are  his  children,  fashioned  and  made  after  him ;  that  we  lived 
before  we  came  into  this  world ;  that  we  did  not  come  here  as  a  matter 
of  chance  but  that  we  came  here  according  to  appointment ;  that  some 
were  leaders,  some  were  followers,  some  were  men  of  faith ;  that  this 
time  that  is  allotted  unto  men  here  in  the  great  school  called  life  is 
but  preparatory  for  the  future  which  surely  must  come  to  every  son 
and  everv  daughter  of  our  father  in  heaven:  that  to  those  who1  have 
not  had  the  privilege  of  receiving  the  gospel  of  the  living  God  in  mor- 
tality, .shall  be  given  a  chance  in  the  hereafter. 

These  are  only  a  few  of  the  things  that  God  has  revealed  which 
make  life  of  interest  and  worth  while,  which  cause  men  and  women 
to  say  to  themselves :  I  believe  the  voice  of  that  young  man  or  that 
young  woman  ;  the  logic  appeals  to  me.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  world  is  filled  with  honorable  men  and 
honorable  women,  if  we  could  only  reach  them.  It  takes  time  to 
change  them,  it  is  true,  because  they  have  lived  believing  they  are 
right.  They  ought  not  to  be  condemned ;  God  will  not  condemn  them 
until  he  gives  them  a  chance.  That  is,  why  we  are  here  today.  That 
is  why  this  Church  lives.  That  is  why  the  work  of  (Joel  will  grow. 
Our  father  will  give  his  children  a  chance.  He  gives-  his  missionaries 
opportunities.  He  is  by  their  side.  If  the  veil  could  only  be  lifted,  we 
could  see  that  his  representatives  are  with  them  in  the,  earth.  It  is  not 
the  power  of  man  they  possess,  but  the  power  of  the  eternal  God,  be- 
cause they  are  only  acting  in  his  name.  They  are  his  agents,  his  represent- 
atives sent  into  the  world  in  this  da)-  to  give  the  people  a  chance  to  be 
redeemed. 

The  strength  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  vested  in  the  truth  which  God  has  revealed.  Men  need  only  be 
willing  to  serve  him,  and  by  his  power  miracles  are  wrought  from 
the  pulpits.  By  his  power  miracles  are  wrought  through  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  through  the  speaking  in  tongues,  through  the  logic  given 
unto  his  children  unto  the  convincing  of  the  honest  in  heart  that  he  lives 
and  that  the  world  is  not  without  him,  that  his  Priesthood  is  here  in 
the  earth,  and  that  the  authority  to  act  in  his  name  is  here. 

May  God  give  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  power  to  continue  to  edu- 
cate their  children,  whom  they  hold  in  trust  for  him,  so  that  the  Lord 
may  be  able  to  use  them  for  the  glorifying  of  his  name,  through  his 
Son  who  died  that  we  might  live,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission.) 

When  the  president  of  the  Church  was  speaking  yesterday  morn- 
ing, the  feelings  of  that  vast  congregation  were  such  as  were  described 
by  the  two  disciples  who  walked  with  Jesus  after  his  re.»urrection. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


81 


They  said :  "Did  not  our  heart  burn  within  us,  while  he  talked  with 
us  by  the  way,  and  while  he  opened  to  us  the  scriptures?"  And 
our  hearts  burned  with  the  fire  of  the  Spirit  which  has  been 
rekindled  and  renewed  by  President  Penrose  and  the  rest  of  the 
speakers  as  we  have  listened  to  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  they 
have  delivered. 

This  Church,  I  boldly  proclaim  and  devoutly  believe,  has  blessed 
the  United  States  of  America  and  all  the  world  by  its  existence  and 
by  the  doctrines  it  has  taught.  It  has  given  to  this  nation  especially, 
and  to  the  world  a  treasure-house  of  scripture.  I  refer  to  the  sacred 
Nephite  record,  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Let  us  take  from  this  treasure- 
house  one  or  two  of  the  gems  of  truth.  One  of  these  gems  is  as 
follows : 

"And  there  was  not  any  man  who  could  do  a  miracle  in  the  name 
of  jesus,  save  he  were  cleansed  every  whit  from  his  iniquity." (Ill 
Nephi  8:3.) 

Isn't  this  a  clarion  call  to  purity  of  life?  The  cleaner  our  lives, 
the  purer  our  thoughts,  the  greater  will  be  our  power,  by  the  prayer 
of  faith,  to  heal  those  who  are  afflicted  with  bodily  ills.  It  is  the 
truth  that  the  many  mighty  miracles  that  Jesus  the  Redeemer  wrought 
was  due  to  the  fact  that  he  lived  so  close  to  the  Father,  lived  so 
perfectly  the  celestial  laws  of  God,  that  unto  him  was  given  that 
superhuman  power. 

Another  truth:  God  said:  "For  my  work  is  not  yet  finished; 
neither  shall  it  be  until  the  end  of  man,  neither  from  that  time  hence 
forth  and  forever." 

"The  works  of  God  continue,  and  worlds  and  lives  abound ; 
improvement  and  progression  have  one  eternal  round." 

Over  the  portals  of  the  prison  house  which  God  hath  prepared 
for  the  sinners,  the  sectarian  world  has  written  this  inscription: 
"Abandon  hope  all  who  enter  here."  But  the  Church  ot  Jesus  Christ 
has  written  above  the  entrance :  "Prisoners  of  hope ;"  for  God's  mercy 
endureth  forever,  and  shall  reach  the  penitent  and  repentant  when 
wrongs  have  been  fully  expiated  for,  even  to  the  uttermost  farthing. 

Again,  in  the  world  today,  who  are  denying  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  also  his  resurrection?  Some  of  the  very  people  who  have 
brazenly  declared  that  this  Church  is  not  a  Christian  Church.  Go 
to  that  splendid  book  of  Mosiah  and  read  the  soul  stirring  testimony 
therein  concerning  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ,  delivered  by  Abinadi, 
who  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood  and  suffered  death  by  fire 
for  daring  to  proclaim  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  and  through  his  atonement  came  forgiveness  of  sins  and  a  re- 
demption from  the  grave. 

These  are  some  of  the  gems  from  the  treasure-house  of  scripture 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  given  to  the 
world ;  and  I  glory  in  and  am  thankful  to  God  for  the  comfort  and 
instruction  in  that  book.    It  is  true  that  many  of  the  learned  are  de- 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nying  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ.  To  he  learned  is  good,  says  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  if  they  hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God ;  when 
scholarship  is  made  tributary  to  the  truth  of  God,  then  blessed  is 
he  who  uses  his  powers  of  learning  in  promulgating  that  truth.  It 
was  the  common  people  who  heard  Jesus  gladly.  These  ministers  who 
arise  in  the  pulpit  and  deny  Christ's  divinity  and  resurrection,  are 
under  the  condemnation  of  the  Redeemer  who  said :  "That  every 
idle  word  that  men  shalh  speak,  they  shall  give  account  thereof  in 
the  day  of  judgment."  The  words  which  deny  the  divinity  of  the 
Redeemer  are  idle  words  and  shall  have  to  be  accounted  for  in  the 
day  of  the  great  jugment. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  gospel  is  true  and  of  God. 
It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  because  through  the  gospel 
have  come  to  light,  life  and  immortality,  and  Jesus  Christ  hath  abol- 
ished death  and  brought  redemption  from  sin,  death  and  the  grave. 
I  bear  my  humble  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God ; 
and  that  President  Grant  stands  in  the  power  and  right  of  his  calling 
as  President  of  the  Church  :  and  oh,  how  blessed  are  we  who  listened 
to  his  inspiring  teachings  yesterday  morning,  when  to  every  heart 
was  brought  home  the  great  truth  that  he  is  favored  of  God  and 
magnified  in  his  calling  as  President  of  this  Church  and  the  leader 
of  this  great  people.  This  testimony  I  bear  in  humility,  in  truth,  and 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  also  the  General  Officers 
of  the  Church.  They  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings, 
by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembly,  as  follows : 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  hirst  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
James  E.  Talmage 
Stephen  L.  Richards 


George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 


Richard  R.  Lyman 
Melvin  J.  Ballard 
John  A.  Widtsoe 


Orson  F.  Whitney 
David  O.  McKay 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


83 


PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
and  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  SEVEN  PRESIDENTS  OF  SEVENTY 

Seymour  B.  Young  Rulon  S.  Wells 

Brigtiam  H.  Roberts  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Levi  Edgar  Young 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-!  N  -TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trnstee-in-Trust,  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  Wm.  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Penrose  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Willard  Young  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Arthur  Winter, 

Sec.  and  Treas. 

COMMISSIONERS  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Stephen  L.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  Edward  P.  Kimball,  and 

B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Asst.  Organists 
John  J.  McClellan,  Organist  George  C.  Smith,  Sec.  and  Treas. 

And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir 

CLERK  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  to  say  that  I  have  been  very  gratified  indeed  with  our  meet- 
ings here  today.  I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  abundantly  blessed  us  in  our 
gatherings  and  that  we  have  had  a  rich  outpouring  of  his  Holy  Spirit. 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  we  have  to  limit  our  brethren  to  a  very 
few  minutes  when  they  speak  here.  There  is  hardly  one  of  the  brethren 
who  has  stood  upon  his  feet  but  what,  I  am  sure,  could  edify  this  con- 
gregation for  an  hour  or  more  if  the  opportunity  were  presented ;  but 
if  you  stop  to  think  of  the  fact  that  there  are  twenty-six  of  the  general 
authorities,  and  that  we  are  anxious  to  hear  from  the  mission  presi- 
dents and  from  as  many  stake  presidents  as  we  possibly  can,  you  will 
realize  that  we  can  only  barely  have  testimonies  borne  by  most  of  the 
brethren  in  these  conference  meetings. 

The  congregation  sang  "High  on  the  mountain  top,'5  and  the  closing 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wallace  Calder,  president  of  the  Uintah 
stake  of  Zion. 

The  meeting  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  10  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

Sunday,  October  7,  1923. 

At  10  o'clock  President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening 
of  the  conference  meeting.  All  the  seats  in  the  Tabernacle  were  occu- 
pied and  every  available  standing  space  in  the  building,  while  many 
were  unable  to  get  in.  An  amplifying  device  had  been  arranged  so  that 
the  large  congregation  assembled  at  the  Bureau  of  Information  and  also 
in  the  Barratt  Hall  were  able  to  hear  the  speakers  in  the  Tabernacle.  In 
the  Assembly  J  [all,  at  which  an  overflow  meeting  was  held,  under  the 
direction  of  Bishop  David  A.  Smith,  separate  speakers  were  provided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang.  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  S.  Allen,  of  the  Taylor  stake 
of  Zion. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  to  say  that  Brother  Whitney's  health  is  of  such  character 
that  he  has  not  been  able  to  be  with  us  during  our  conference,  so  far, 
and  he  feels  that  he  cannot  come  this  morning  nor  this  afternoon. 
1  am  pleased  to  inform  you,  however,  that  his  health  has  very  greatly 
improved,  during  the  past  six  months,  and  that  he  is  again  able 
occasionally,  in  fact  nearly  always,  to  meet  with  us  once  a  week  in 
the  temple  in  the  regular  council  meeting  of  the  Presidency,  the 
Apostles  and  the  Patriarch.  But  considering  the  state  of  his  nerves 
at  the  present  time,  he  does  not  feel  that  it  is  wisdom  to  he  here  and 
mingle  with  a  large  crowd.  lie  is  with  us  in  spirit  and  we  hope 
and  pray  that  he  may  be  here  in  vigor  of  body  and  mind  six  months 
from  today. 

The  choir  sang,  ''1  saw  a  mighty  angel  fly." 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Like  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  I  am  very  thankful  this  morning 
for  these  amplifiers,  for,  like  him,  I  am  suffering  from  a  cold  which 
somewhat  affects  my  voice. 

TRUE  AND  FALSE  EVOLUTION. 

A  gentleman  said  to  me  some  time  ago:  "Do  vou  believe  in  evo- 
lu'ion?" 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  said,  "Yes  sir,  I  do.''  And  then  I  said,  "You  will  remember 
that  there  are  two  views  of  this  question  of  evolution,  one  bears  upon 
true  evolution  and  the  other  bears  upon  what  I  call  false  evolution." 
And  I  called  his  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  scriptures  tell  us — we 
find  it  in  the  first  chapter  of  Genesis — that  God  created  animals  after 
their  kind — that  of  man  and  that  of  animal — and  it  is  set  forth  beauti- 
fully in  these  words : 

"And  the  evening  and  the  morning  were  the  fifth  day. 

"And  God  said,  Let  the  earth  bring  forth  the  living  creature  af- 
ter his  kind,  cattle,  and  creeping  thing,  and  beast  of  the  earth  after 
his  kind  :  and  it  was  so. 

"And  God  made  the  beast  of  the  earth  after  his  kind,  and  cattle 
after  their  kind,  and  everything  that  creepeth  upon  the  earth  after 
his  kind :  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good. 

"And  God  said.  Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  like- 
ness;" [and  we  might  add:  after  our  kind],  "and  let  them  have 
dominion  over  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  over  the  fowl  of  the  air,  and 
over  the  cattle,  and  over  all  the  earth,  and  over  every  creeping  thing 
that  creepeth  upon  the  earth. 

"So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,"  [and  we  might  add: 
after  his  kind]  "in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him:  male  and  female 
created  he  them." 

ONE  KIND  OF  ANIMAL  NEVER  CHANGES  INTO  ANOTHER  KIND. 

And  so  I  remarked  that  following  this  test  and  this  view  set 
forth  by  the  scriptures,  one  kind  of  animal  never  changes  into  another 
kind,  that  an  elephant  never  changes  into  a  man,  because  if  he  did 
there  would  be  a  tremendous  reduction  of  avoirdupois,  and  as  a  matter 
of  fact  he  does  not.  Neither  is  a  mouse  changed  into  a  giraffe.  But 
I  did  remark  that  animals  might  be  improved  after  nieir  kind  and 
along  their  line,  as  we  know  to  be  the  case.  And  then  I  added  also,, 
that  man  may  be  improved  along  bis  own  line  by  education,  by  study 
and  reflection  and  by  worship  of  the  God  of  heaven. 

TESTIFYING  IN  SONG  AND  SERMON  THAT  JOSEPH  SMITH   IS  A  PROPHET 

OF  GOD. 

I  was  thrilled  with  the  opening  song  this  morning.  It  was 
wonderful  that  a  great  congregation  of  people,  numbering  thousands, 
should  be  testifying  in  song  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God; 
and  mark  you,  they  have  been  singing  that  song  into  their  lives  and 
into  the  hearts  of  their  children  for  many  years.  I'  have  also  re- 
joiced, oh,  how  much,  in  the  testimonies  of  this  congregation,  in  the 
remarks  of  our  President  and  the  brethren  who  have  spoken.  And  let 
me  remind  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  on  Friday  night  there 
was  a  great  body  of  men  gathered  in  this  tabernacle — nineteen  hun- 
dred forty-five  filled  the  auditorium  of  the  tabernacle — and  these 
men.  these  solemn,  earnest,  and  determined  men,  consisting  of  the 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


87 


Presidency  and  other  general  authorities  of  the  Church — high-priests, 
seventies,  elders,  bishops  and  members  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood — 
represented  and  stood  for  divine  authority.  Oh.  how  thankful  I  am 
that  all  of  the  authority  of  God  pertaining  to  his  work  does  not  rest 
Upon  the  President  of  the  Church,  who  is  the  prophet.  He  carries 
a  great  responsibility,  let  me  tell  you,  in  holding  the  keys,  and  by  these 
keys  this  divine  authority  is  distributed  down  through  the  Church, 
and  rests  upon  all  the  male  members  of  the  Church.  God  is  no  re- 
specter of  persons,  because  this  glorious  authority  and  blessing  even 
reaches  to  the  women  of  the  Church,  for  they  will  share  and  do  share, 
in  this  divine  authority  through  their  husbands,  which  emphasizes 
most  powerfully  the  great  principle  of  marriage  for  time  and  mar- 
riage for  eternity,  because  this  divine  authority  not  only  comes  tc 
us  upon  earth,  but  goes  with  us  into  eternity. 

CHURCH  GOING  FORWARD  WITH  INCREASING  TEMPORAL  AND  SPIRITUAL 

POWER. 

Tt  seems  to  me,  brethren  and  sisters,  after  one  hundred  years, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  which  is  involved 
the  kingdom  of  God,  shows  forth  great  strength  in  spirituality  and 
increasing  temporal  power.  If  it  were  all  spiritual,  the  Church  would 
be  top-heavy.  If  it  were  all  temporal,  the  Church  would  be  top-heavy; 
but  the  spiritual  and  the  temporal  are  fitly  joined  together  by  a 
dividing  line  that  is  invisible — you  cannot  see  it  but  you  know  it  is 
there — the  spiritual  merges  into  the  temporal,  the  temporal  merges 
into  the  spiritual,  and  thus  the  Church  of  God  is  established  and  will 
be  built  up  on  the  earth. 

And  now  you  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  why  we  have  to  do 
temporal  tilings  as  well  as  spiritual  things.  Some  people  find  fault 
with  this  and  they  think  the  leaders  of  the  Church  ought  not  to  be 
interested  in  temporal  things.  Weil,  if  they  were  not  interested  in 
temporal  things  the  Church  of  God  could  not  continue,  would  not  be 
built  up.  So  I  rejoice  in  the  temporal  as  well  as  in  the  spiritual. 
Think  of  the  great  things  that  have  been  accomplished  already,  spiritu- 
ally and  temporally.  Look  at  these  great  temples  of  God  that  are 
temporal  and  material  in  part,  but  they  represent  to  us  great  spiritual 
blessings,  because  I  fancy  we  could  not  rise  to  glory  and  exaltation 
without  the  blessings  imparted  unto  us  in  the  temples  of  God  .  There 
you  see  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual  fitly  joined  together. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  glory  in  these  things.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  it  throughout  my 
whole  being.  My  soul  responds  to  this  testimony,  and  I  know  and  re- 
joice in  the  fact  that  whatever  of  Priesthood  and  authority  I  enjoy 
and  am  able  to  exercise  have  come  down  to  me  from  the  Lord  through 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet.      Oh,  how  I  do  revere  the  memory  of 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  man.  I  do  not  worship  him.  No,  I  do  not  worship  him,  but 
I  reverence  his  good  name,  and  I  reverence  the  authority  that  he 
held  and  exercised,  and  I  reverence  the  authority  that  is  held  by  one 
of  his  successors,  our  present  leader,  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I 
sustain  him  with  all  my  heart  as  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  and 
the  president  of  the  Church.  Oh,  how  sweet  to  me  is  the  knowlege 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  because  if  he  was  not  the  Christ,  if  his  blood 
was  not  shed  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  his  Church  would  not  be, 
and  could  not  exist  in  the  earth.  This  is  the  testimony  I  bear  and 
the  testimony  that  1  leave  with  you.  I  pray  God's  blessing  upon  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Eastern  States 

(Mission.) 

Recalling  the  remarks  of  Elder  Reed  Smoot  made  yesterday, 
respecting  the  sacrifices  and  the  burdens  England  incurred  in  the 
World  War,  I  wish  to  say  that  I  was  very  proud  of  England,  the 
land  of  my  birth,  because  I  could  not  help  but  remember  that  England 
made  those  sacrifices,  and  took  upon  herself  those  great  burdens  of 
debt,  not  because  of  any  iniquity  on  her  part,  but  because  she  was 
determined  that  international  obligations  and  treaties  should  be  some- 
thing more  than  mere  "scraps  of  paper."  Also  I  could  not  but  remem- 
ber that  when  she  went  to  the  side  of  Belgium  and  France,  she  did  so 
in  the  interest  of  world-freedom,  and  against  and  to  destroy  the  men- 
ace of  autocracy,  which  endangered  the  freedom  of  t'.ie  world.  Also 
1  could  not  help  but  remember  that  our  own  burdens  in  the  same  great 
war  were  made  comparatively  light  because  England's  burden  had  been 
made  so  heavy.  My  heart  was  moved  with  great  sympathy  for  Eng- 
land by  these  reflections,  and  I  pray  that,  under  the  blessings  <M 
Almighty  God,  she  may  be  relieved  of  those  great  burdens  assumed  in 
this  great  cause  of  human  freedom  as  against  autocracy,  something 
before  a  hundred  years  shall  elapse.  You  will  pardon  me,  but  I 
thought  it  was  due  that  this  much  at  least  should  be  said  in  the  exten- 
sion of  what  was  said  yesterday,  since  just  at  this  particular  junction 
our  shores  are  being  visited  by  England's  great  war  Prime  Minister, 
Mr.  Lloyd  George.  T  am  sure,  however,  you  will  not  expect  me  to  say 
anything  further  upon  this  subject;  but  you  will  most  likely  expect 
me  to  make  some  reference,  in  the  nature  of  a  report,  concerning  the 
Eastern  States  mission,  and  our  summer  campaign  in  that  mission. 

Our  mission  comprises  the  most  densely  populated  territory  within 
the  United  States.  It  extends  from  Maine  to  Maryland  and  West 
Virginia,  ft  is  the  industrial,  commercial,  financial,  and  manufactur- 
ing district  preeminent  of  the  United  Sta'es.  Its  population  is  equal 
to  the  population  of  the  whole  of  the  United  States,  nearly,  at  the  time 


ELDER  BRIGUAM  H.  ROBERTS 


89 


our  Church  was  organized.  During-  the  last  six  months  we  have  had 
a  varying  number  of  missionaries,  from  one  hundred  and  thirty  to 
one  hundred  and  forty  in  the  field.  This  force  constitutes  an  irregular 
and  here  and  there  broken  line  of  workers,  extending  through  the 
twelve  states  that  comprize  the  mission.  You  can  well  understand  that 
our  numbers  are  very  insignificant  for  so  great  a  field  of  labor.  We 
have  less  than  five  thousand  as  a  membership  of  our  Church,  in  that 
great  mass  of  people,  a  very  little  leaven  indeed  to  leaven  so  large  a 
lump  of  territory  and  of  population.  Yet  1  am  happy  to  report  that 
the  workers  of  this  thin,  long  line  are  extremely  faithful  and  devoted 
to  the  work  in  which  they  are  engaged. 

MISSION  MOTTO 

( )ne  of  the  mottoes  by  which  they  are  guided  in  maintaining  their 
spiri  tial  uplift  is — 

"A  mission  in  the  Eastern  States  means  absolute  consecration  of 
one's  self  to  the  service  of  God  and  fellozv  men;  with  all  light-minded- 
ness, folly  and  sin  eliminated.'' 

We  recognize  absolutely  the  great  doctrine  of  the  Christ,  expressed 
in  these  terms:  ''Without  me  ye  can  do  nothing."  And  so,  as  a  word  of 
good  cheer  to  each  other  to  be  spoken  in  moments  of  sensed  weakness 
or  hesitance,  we  say  to  each  other  :"  Immanuel !"  which,  being  Interpreted 
is,  "God  with  us."  And  if  God  be  with  us,  we  shall  not  and  cannot  fail. 

These  are  principles  that  actuate  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are 
performing  missionary  work  in  the  Eastern  States.  Our  faith  is  in 
God;  our  trust  is  in  him;  we  realize  that  he  is  the  source  of  wisdom 
and  of  power,  and  that  if  he  does  not  sustain  this  work;  if  he  does  not 
magnify  it  in  the  eyes  of  men.  and  does  not  give  us  the  ability  to  set 
forth  the  great  message  that  he  has  committed  to  his  Church  in  the 
earth,  then  we  can  do  nothing. 

the  summer's  campaign 

The  outstanding  feature  of  our  work  during  the  last  six  months 
has  been  the  summer  campaign,  commenced  on  the  15th  day  of  May, 
the  ninety-fourth  anniversary  of  the  restoration  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood to  the  eanh,  the  first  divine  authority  officially  communicated  to 
man  in  this  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  There  was  a  recon- 
secration  of  our  missionaries  in  the  Eastern  States  that  day  to  the  work 
of  the  Eord.  We  had  abandoned  our  lodgings,  the  elders  took  in  their 
small  grips  all  their  earthly  possessions,  a  little  clothing  and  a  few 
books,  in  a  way  burned  their  bridges  behind  them,  and  went  out  trust- 
ing in  God  to  open  the  way  for  food  and  raiment  and  lodging.  I  think 
very  likely  if  I  had  not  myself  had  some  experience  in  this  kind  of  work, 
and  had  not  learned  how  God  can  and  will  open  the  doors  of  deliverance 
for  his  servants,  supplement  their  efforts  by  his  own  powerful  aid.  1 
should  not  have  dared  to  put  your  sons  and  daughters  to  this  great  test 
of  faith  and  patience  and  endurance.    But  recalling  the  providences  of 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  to  me  in  the  early  days  of  my  own  missionary  experience,  I  did 
not  hesitate  to  put  them  to  the  test,  and  the  result  has  been  glorious. 
They  were  not  left  to  themselves  ;  God  abundantly  opened  doors  to  them. 
While  they  went  out  seeking  disciples,  they  themselves  in  many,  many 
cases,  found  God.  They  also  found  disciples,  and  it  is  a  matter  that 
greatly  encourages  me  that  we  found  so  many  of  God's  disciples  in  the 
Eastern  States  mission.  He  has  caused  it  to  be  written  in  one  of  his 
revelations  that  "whosoever  receiveth  God's  servants,  that  clothes  them 
or  feeds  them,  or  gives  them  money,  the  same  is  his  disciple,  and  by  Lhis 
we  know  God's  disciples."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  Sec.  84:87-91).  And  we 
found  many  disciples.  I  kept  in  close  touch  with  the  development  of 
this  work.  Through  the  kindness  of  one  of  the  brethren  in  the  mission, 
I  had  placed  at  my  disposal  an  automobile.  We  found  a  chauffeur, 
among  the  elders,  and  so  I  visited  many  of  the  missionaries  out  in  their 
fields  of  labor,  where  they  were  traveling,  two  and  two.  I  joined  with 
them  in  the  rural  meetings  that  they  were  holding,  and  witnessed  their 
sublime  effort  at  fulfilling  the  duties  and  obligations  as  servants  of 
God,  right  in  the  field.  So.  throughout  the  summer  I  watched  the  devel- 
opment of  this  experiment  of  preaching  the  gospel,  trusting  in  the  Lord 
to  open  the  way. 

THE  CONFERENCE  AT  CUMORAH 

This  summer  campaign  of  four  months  was  to  culminate  in  the 
conference  that  we  held  at  Cumorah,  a  fitting  climax,  I  thought  it 
would  be,  to  the  splendid  labors  of  the  missionaries  in  our  Eastern 
States  mission.  I  trust  it  turned  out  to  be  a  great  conference.  There 
was  one  thing  said  about  it  in  the  Rochester  Herald  that  I  would  like 
to  put  in  the  record  of  this  conference,  that  it  might  have  a  permanent 
lodgment  in  the  history  of  that  event.  It  was  written  by  no  tyro  of  the 
press,  but  a  man  of  comprehension,  and  I  think  also  of  deep  feeling. 
It  consists  of  but  two  brief  paragraphs  but  the  passage  is  of  high  value 
as  an  historical  note.  It  is  found  in  the  Roclicstcr  Herald  of  Sept.  22, 
1923,  and  is  as  follows  : 

"Unfolding  like  some  graphic  panorama  pf  the  past,  epic  in  implications 
am!  dramatic  in  content,  the  story  of  an  ancient  civilization  that  peopled  the 
plains  and  hills  in  this  vicinity  was  the  chief  topic  of  discussion  before 
the  centennial  conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  today.  Reaching  so  far  back  into  the  dim  yesterdays  of  history, 
back  to  days  more  than  2,500  years  ago,  this  story  came  with  a  strange 
emphasis  in  tite  very  places  where  its  climaxes  and  denouements  are  sup- 
posed to  have  been  reached.  The  narrative  is  the  very  basis  of  'Mormon' 
theology  and  belief  and1  leads  directly  up  to  the x  revelation  given  through 
Joseph  Smith  of  the  foundations  of  the  'Mormon'  Church. 

"The  speakers  at  the  conference  told  the  story  with  the  simplicity  and 
directness  of  a  Norse  saga.  As  point  after  point  of  drama  of  the  lost  tribes, 
of  their  rise  to  a  great  civilization  and  of  their  final  downfall  in  the  bitter- 
ness of  war  was  related,  those  not  conversant  with  the  tale  were  gripped 
and  fascinated  by  the  strangeness  of  the  recital,  and  when  a  speaker 
dramatically  pointed  to  the  earth  and  mentioned  that  upon  the  very  spot 
where  he  stood'  some  of  the  epic  events  might  have  taken  place,  there  was  a 
decided  thrill  to  being  there." 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


91 


We  tried  to  so  arrange  the  program  of  the  conference  that  we 
should  live  again  in  the  places  and  near  places  where  the  chief  events 
took  place  in  which  the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  had  its  origin 
■ — we  tried,  I  say,  to  live  again,  so  far  as  we  could  in  story  and  testi- 
mony and  song,  through  the  great  epic  events  that  resulted  in  the  crea- 
tion of  this  latter-day  work.  It  is  unnecessary  for  me  to  recount  the 
visitation  of  angels  and  the  revelations  in  which  the  work  had  its 
origin.    You  are  familiar  with  them  all. 

THE  MESSAGES  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

There  is  just  one  other  thing,  however — nay,  perhaps  two,  that 
I  want  to  call  your  attention  to.  The  great  outstanding  thing  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  the  fact  of  the  visit  of  the  Redeemer  to  the  inhabit- 
ants of  this  western  world,  and  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  that 
he  delivered  here ;  the  Church  which  he  brought  into  existence,  the 
divine  authority  which  he  established  here  in  the  western  world.  This 
is  what  makes  the  Book  of  Mormon  of  so  much  importance — it  is  a  new 
witness  for  God  and  Christ  and  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  These  things 
being  true,  makes  the  advent  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  into  the  world 
the  greatest  literary  event  of  the  world  since  the  writing  of  the  Deca- 
logue by  the  finger  of  God,  and  bringing  it  forth  by  the  great  Prophet 
Moses ;  or  the  collection  and  the  publication  of  the  testimony  in  the 
New  Testament  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that  he  is  the  resurrection 
and  the  life  of  men  ;  the  greatest  event  since  the  recording  of  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount,  or  the  summary  of  the  law  by  Christ :  for  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  supplemental  to  all  this,  the  necessary  part  to  a  consistent 
whole  which  manifests  the  mercy  and  the  justice  of  God  in  providing 
these  great  things  of  the  gospel  for  the  men  of  the  Western  world,  as 
well  as  to  men  in  the  Eastern  world. 

The  other  thing  referred  to  is  this:  The  Book  of  Mormon  con- 
tains a  wonderful  message  to  the  great  Gentile  nation — the  United 
States  of  America — whose  rise  and  supremacy  it  predicts.  If  you  go 
no  further  back  than  1830,  when  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  brought  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  world,  it  remains  one  of  the  mightiest  prophecies 
that  is  of  record — this  prophecy  of  the  rise  of  a  great  Gentile  nation, 
upon  this  land  of  America.  Here  and  there  also  we  catch  glimpses  of 
the  fact  that  the  inspired  men  whom  God  raised  up  to  found  this  nation, 
and  whom  God  also  raised  up  to  preserve  it  by  their  wise  counsels — 
here  and  there,  I  say,  we  get  glimpses  of  the  fact  that  God  has  inspired 
their  minds  to  understand  the  great  principles  upon  which  this  nation 
of  ours  may  maintain  its  pride  of  place  in  this  Western  world,  and 
in  the  whole  world.  For  instance,  in  his  very  last  public  address,  made 
before  the  Historical  Society  of  New  York,  in  1852,  Daniel  Webster 
said : 

"Let  me  say,  gentlemen,  that  if  we  and  our  posterity  shall  be  true 
to  the  Christian  religion,  if  we  and  they  shall  live  always  in  the  fear  of 
God,  and  shall  respect  his  commandments,  if  we  and  they  shall  maintain 
just,  moral  sentiments  and  such  righteous  convictions  of  duty  as  shall  con- 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tro!  the  heart  and  life,  we  may  have  the  highest  hopes  of  the  future  fortunes, 
ot  our  country;  Dut  if  we  and  our  posterity  rej.ect  religious  instruction 
am"  authority,  violate  the  rules  of  eternal  justice,  trifle  with  the  injunctions 
ot  morality,  and  recklessly  destroy  the  political  constitution  which  holds 
us  together,  no  man  can  tell  how  sudden  a  catastrophe  may  overwhelm 
us  that  shall  bury  all  our  glory  in  profound  obscurity." 

And  recently,  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  for  August  of  this  year,  one 
of  the  foremost  statesmen  in  these  modern  times,  in  a  very  brief  article, 
more  widely  read  I  think,  and  more  largely  commented  upon,  than  any 
other  utterance  that  has  been  made  of  late,  said  this,  when  treating  of 
the  subject:  "The  Road  Away  from  Revolution."  Mr.  Wilson,  Ex- 
president  of  the  United  States,  for  it  was  he  who  wrote  the  article 
referred  to,  said : 

"The  sum  of  the  whole  matter  is  this:  that  our  civilization  cannot  sur- 
vive materially  unless  it  be  redeemed  spiritually.  It  can  be  saved  only  by 
becoming  permeated  with  the  spirit  of  Christ,  and  being  made  free  and 
happy  by  the  practices  which  spring  out  of  that  spirit. 

Only  thus  can  the  discontent  be  driven  out,  and  all  the  shadows  lifted 
from  the  road  ahead." 

But  before  Mr.  Webster  made  this  utterance  of  warning',  and 
long  before  1 'resident  Wilson  uttered  these  sublime  words  of  warning 
to  the  American  Nation,  the  Rook  of  Mormon,  ages  ago,  but  brought 
forth  into  the  world  in  1830,  contains  this  message  from  God  in  respect 
of  all  this  spoken  by  Webster  and  by  Mr.  Wilson: — 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  [referring  to  America]  and  what- 
soever nation  shall  posses  it  shall  be  free  from  bondage  and  from  cap- 
tivity, and  from  all  other  nations  under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve 
the  Cod  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  who  hath  been  manifested 
by  the  tilings  which  we  have  written." 

Such  are  the  two  great  messages  of  the  Hook  of  Mormon  revealed 
now  some  hundred  years  ago,  and  they  constitute  the  sublimest  message 
ever  delivered  to  the  world,  because  the  witnesses  whose  words  are 
within  the  book,  testify  of  the  Christ  and  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  of 
the  eternal  life  of  man  and  his  power  to  become  indeed,  not  only  the 
sons  of  God,  but  the  glorified  sons  of  God:  and  also  because  it  gives 
to  us  a  sublime  message  for  the  great  Gentile  nation  of  this  land,  telling 
them  the  conditions  upon  which  they  may  continue  to  enjoy  the  favor 
and  blessing  of  God,  and  maintain  their  place  and  power  for  good  in 
the  world. 

God  has  made  his  Church — this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
dav  Saints — his  herald  to  the  world  concerning  these  things.  May  the 
Lord  make  us  equal  to  so  great  a  mission,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang.  "An  angel  from  on  high."  solos  by  Sister  Sarah 
Wood  and  J  [yrum  Christensen.  This  hymn  was  sung  on  the  Hill 
Cumorah  recently  on  the  occasion  of  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
visits  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.   On  the  present 


ELDER  SERGE  E.  BALLIF 


93 


occasion  only  three  of  the  verses  were  sung.  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
read  the  remainder  of  the  words  as  follows: 

The  time  is  now  fulfilled, 

The  long  expected  day; 
Let  earth  obedient  yield, 

And  darkness  flee  away; 
Remove  the  seals,  be  wide  unfurled 
Its  light  and  glory  to  the  world. 

Lo,  Israel  filled  with  joy, 

Shall  now  be  gathered  home, 
Their  wealth  and  power  employ 

To  build  Jerusalem; 
While  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine; 
And'  fill  the  earth  with  truth  divine. 

Words  by  Parley  P.  Pratt. 

ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 

(  Former  President  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission.) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  assure  you  that  my  heart 
and  soul  have  been  touched  to  their  very  depths  with  the  things  we 
have  heard  during  this  conference. 

We  are  here  assembled  in  answer  to  prayer  one  hundred  years 
ago,  when  that  boy  prophet  went  into  the  woods  and  called  upon 
God.  I  want  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
beyond  all  question  of  doubt  that  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
spoke  to  him  in  distinct  and  clear  tones  in  answer  to  his  question: 
"Which  of  all  the  religions  in  the  world  is  correct?"  The  answer 
came,  without  a  doubt :  "They  are  all  wrong,"  and  these  words  re- 
sound throughout  the  ends  of  the  earth  today — that  all  the  other  Chris- 
tian denominations  are  wrong;  they  are  founded  upon  a  false  founda- 
tion. 

I  rejoiced  in  our  first  session  of  this  splendid  conference,  when 
I  heard  our  president  relate  the  experiences  of  the  past  six  months, 
when  he  told  of  his  dedicating  the  temple  at  Cardston.  He  also  re- 
lated his  attendance  at  a  conference  in  Rotterdam.  It  was  my  pleas- 
ure to  be  in  attendance  at  that  conference,  and  at  that  time  I  said 
that  I  never  before  had  felt  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  such  power 
manifested  as  it  was  at  that  time.  It  was  also  my  good  pleasure  to 
be  called  by  the  president  to  attend  the  conference  at  Bradford,  in 
England,  to  which  he  has  made  reference,  and  there  again  we  heard 
some  wonderful  testimonies  which  made  an  impression  upon  my 
soul,  which  never  can  be  eradicated.  I  also  had  the  pleasure  of  ac- 
companying our  president  through  Germany,  through  Norway,  Swe- 
den, and  Denmark ;  and  I  also  had  the  pleasure  of  once  being  in  a 
room  with  him  at  one  o'clock  in  the  morning.  He  called  me  in,  and 
he  took  a  newspaper  and  read  from  it  in  the  light  of  the  midnight 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sun.  And  I  have  thought:  O,  what  a  joy  it  would  have  been  to 
me  could  I  have  attended  that  service  at  Cardston — the  dedication 
of  that  temple.  We  have  heard  that  a  number  of  the  leading  au- 
thorities of  the  Church  were  present  and  men  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church  gathered  at  that  most  wonderful  gathering.  There  were  the 
presidency,  the  prophet  who  holds  the  keys,  the  only  man  upon  the 
earth  who  holds  the  keys  and  the  powers  to  commune  with  God  for 
the  good  and  for  the  advancement  of  his  people  here  upon  the  earth. 
Those  keys  were  conferred  upon  him  when  he  met  there  to  dedicate 
that  temple.  There  were  not  alone  these  men,  living  here  in  the 
flesh,  but  I  have  felt,  deep  down  in  my  soul,  that  that  great  man, 
our  prophet  and  president,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  great  leader  Brig- 
ham  Young,  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  were  present  in  spirit. 
Why?  Because  they  are  not  alone  interested  in  the  work  of  the 
living  here  upon  the  earth,  but  they  know  the  conditions  on  the 
other  side,  they  know  that  there  are  thousands  who  are  waiting  for 
the  ordinances  that  will  be  performed  in  that  sacred  temple.  The 
doors  will  be  unlocked  and  they  will  be  made  free  through  its  or- 
dinances. It  must  have  been  a  grand  and  glorious  vision  and  sight 
to  see. 

In  ispeaking  of  the  services  to)  which  President  Roberts  has 
referred,  this  morning,  at  the  Hill  Cumorah,  I  thought  when  our 
president  said  that  the  prayer  offered  on  that  occasion  was  not  re- 
corded, that  we  are  making  history  today  for  the  unborn  generations, 
and  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  uttered  a 
prayer  inspired  of  Almighty  God,  and  oh,  what  a  joy  it  would  be 
for  generations  to  come  to  be  able  to  read  that  divine  instrument.  I 
know,  although  I  did  not  see  the  Angel  Moroni  when  he  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  beyonjd  all  question  of  doubt,  he  did  de- 
liver those  sacred  records  to  the  boy  prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  I  re- 
ceived a  testimony  of  this  before  I  was  born.  My  mother  received 
the  gospel  in  her  native  land,  and  when  she  passed  through  the  shadows 
of  death  to  bring  me  into  this  world  she  sealed  upon  me  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  great  work. 
If  the  president  will  just  permit  me  to  do  so,  I  would  like  to  read 
something.  In  my  meditation  after  the  first  session  of  the  conference, 
these  words  came  to  me : 

O,  stop  and  tell  me,  Red  Man, 
Who  are  you,  why  you  roam, 
And  how  you  get  your  living; 
Have  you  no  God,  no  home? 

With  stature  straight  and  portly, 
And  decked  in  native  pride, 
With  feathers,  paints  and  brooches, 
He  willingly  replied: 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 


95 


"I  once  was  pleasant  Ephraim, 

When  Jacob  for  me  prayed; 
But  oh,  how  blessings  vanish, 

When  man  from  God  has  strayed ! 

O,  my  brethren  and  .sisters,  those  words  resound  in  my  soul !  O, 
now  unhappy,  how  unfortunate  is  man  when  he  is  left  unto  himself 
and  the  Spirit  of  God  is  withdrawn  from  him! 

"Before  your  nation  knew  us. 

Some  thousand  moons  ago, 
Our  fathers  fell  in  darkness, 

And  wandered  to  and  fro. 

'"And  long  they  lived  by  hunting 

Instead  of  works  and  arts, 
And  so  our  race  has  dwindled 

To  idle  Indian  hearts. 

''Yet  hope  within  us  lingers, 

As  if  the  Spirit  spoke, 
He'll  come  for  your  redemption, 

And  break  your  Gentile  yoke. 

"And  all  your  captive  brothers 

From  every  clime  shall  come, 
And  quit  their  savage  customs, 
To  live  with  God  at  home. 

"Then  joy  will  fill  your  bosoms, 
And  blessings  crown  our  days, 

To  live  in  pure  religion, 

And  sing  our  Maker's  praise." 

I  want  to  say  a  word,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  about  the  Swiss 
and  German  mission.  I  believe  that  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  missions 
in  all  the  world.  I  believe  that  the  blood  of  Israel  is  found  in  rich 
abundance  in  those  lands.  There  are  ninety  millions  of  people  in  Ger- 
many, Austria,  Hungary,  Poland,  and  the  borders  of  Russia.  It  has 
been  my  pleasure  to  travel  over  that  land  and.  I  want  to  say  that  God 
has  touched  the  hearts  of  those  people ;  he  has  prepared  them ;  they 
have  gone  through  the  burning  siege  of  persecution;  they  have  suf- 
fered ;  and  I  want  to  say  that  the  poor  people  in  Germany  today  are 
suffering,  they  are  going  through  an  ordeal  that  few  people  in  the 
world  have  gone  through.  The  rich  are  growing  richer;  but  the  poor, 
honest  people,  many  of  them,  I  fear,  will  be  hungering  before  another 
year  passes  by.  I  am  in  touch  with  President  Tadje,  of  the  Swiss 
and  German  mission,  a  good,  faithful  servant  of  the  Lord.  In  that 
mission  we  have  thirteen  conferences,  and  he  is  visiting  them.  He  has 
been  in  very  poor  health  for  a  short  time,  but  today  his  health  is  re- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


stored  and  he  is  traveling  among  those  conferences  and  increasing 
the  numbers,  and  the  great  thing  that  he  needs  today  is  help.  The 
people  are  ready,  they  are  waiting  for  the  gospel.  Oh,  if  we  could 
just  go  through  that  land — the  borders  of  Russia  and  all  through  that 
country!  Those  people  are  impregnated  with  the  blood  of  Israel.  They 
are  waiting  for  the  message,  and  we  are  living  in  the  last  dispensation, 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  when  God  has  spoken,  and  he 
has  called  us,  and  our  mission  is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
to  warn  the  world  and  establish  his '  kingdom  here  upon  the  earth. 
Oh,  my  brethren,  let  us  help  these  people!  They  are  hungering  and 
thirsting,  they  are  traveling  from  sea  to  sea  and  hunting  for  the 
word  of  God. 

I  want  to  say  just  a  few  words  about  our  missionaries.  Those 
boys  over  there  are  working  with  all  the  might  and  strength  and  power 
they  have.  God  qualifies  and  fits  them  for  their  mission.  The  Lord 
transforms  them  when  they  come  into  the  mission  field  as  humble 
elders,  faithful  and  true  to  their  covenants.  1  want  to  endorse  the  re- 
marks of  President  Roberts.  I  know  through  exnerience,  beyond  the 
question  of  doubt,  that  the  best  way  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  way  that  our  Maker,  the  lowly  Master,  without  a  place  to 
lay  his  head,  proclaimed  his  mission  among  his  children  I  am  convinced 
that  if  your  sons  will  go  into  the  mission  field,  depending  upon  God  and 
not  upon  their  pocket-books,  1  promise  you  that  the  Lord  will  come 
to  them,  he  will  come  to  their  rescue  :  he  will  bless  them  and  provide 
them  with  food  and  with  every  necessity  of  life. 

The  other  day  I  met  a  person  here  in  the  city  and  he  said :  "Well, 
it  is  a  mighty  nice  thing  to  go  out  on  a  mission  and  draw  a  big  salary 
and  have  a  good  time,  like  you  have." 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  this  is  not  a  Church  with  a  hired 
ministry.  I  have  been  in  the  mission-field  in  1890,  1904  and  1920.  1 
have  spent  twelve  years  of  my  life  in  the  mission  field,  and  I  never 
have  received  one  penny  of  salary,  not  one  penny.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  me.  He  has  raised  up  friends  to  minister  to  my  wants,  and 
I  want  it  understood,  absolutely,  so  far  as  I  know,  .so  far'  as  f  am  con- 
cerned, there  is  no  paid  ministry  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  But,  on  the  contrary,  when  a  man  goes  into  the  mis- 
sion field  depending  upon  the  Lord,  he  will  bless  him  and  raise  up 
friends  and  give  him  money  and  clothing,  all  that  he  needs.  I  know 
it,  I  demonstrated  it  in  this  last  mission.  We  had  many  elders  there 
who  went  from  month  to  month,  depending  upon  the  Lord  to  take  care 
of  them.  I  hope  Brother  Stoff  is  here  in  this  house — one  of  our  mis- 
sionaries who  depended  upon  the  Lord.  At  one  time  he  was  called 
to  go  several  hundred  miles.  He  hadn't  a  penny  in  his  pocket,  and  he 
said :  How  can  I  go  and  attend  that  conference  ?  He  did  not  ask  me, 
but  he  went  direct  to  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord  knew  his  condition,  and 
he  prayed  to  him:  "O  Father,  I  am  called  to  fill  a  mission;  open  the 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 


97 


way  for  me."  Two  days  passed1  by  and  no  answer  came  to  his  prayer. 
The  third  day  he  started  out.  He  said :  I  am  going  if  I  have  to  walk. 
He  met  a  man,  as  he  left  the  building,  who  said :  "Where  are  you  go- 
ing?" 

"I  am  going  to  a  conference." 

He  put  his  hand  in  his  pocket  and  gave  him.  1  think,  two  hundred 
marks.  It  was  not  very  much,  but  it  was  more  than  enough  to  pay 
his  way.  How  did  that  happen?  Was  that  a  chance?  Was  that  luck? 
No,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  chance  and  luck.  The  Lord  sent  that 
man  in  answer  to  his  prayer  and  he  administered  to  his  wants  and 
made  it  possible  for  him  to  go  and  attend  that  conference.  Give  the 
Lord  a  chance  and  he  will  bless  his  servants.  This  is  his  work,  and!  he 
has  set  his  hand  to  accomplish  it  here  in  the  earth.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission) 

I  rejoice  very  much,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  opportunity 
afforded  me  of  being  present  in  this  great  conference,  and  I  have  re- 
joiced, more  than  I  expect  to  be  able  to  tell,  in  the  spirit  of  the  coiv 
ference,  and  in  the  remarkable  things  that  have  been  brought  forth 
from  the  servants  of  the  Lord  by  the  power  aqd  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  My  heart  was  made  glad,  in  the  opening  ses- 
sion, by  the  manifestation  of  the  power  of  God,  and  the  spirit  of  pres- 
idency and  leadership  that  were  so  evident  in  the  counsels  and  in- 
structions that  were  imparted  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  in  his 
opening  address.  I  surely  felt  in  my  soul  that  the  Lord  our  God 
was  present,  that  he  was  directing  and  guiding  his  work  in  keep- 
ing with  the  promises  that  have  been  made,  both  by  the  prophets 
of  this  dispensation,  and  by  the  prophets  of  the  Lord  from  the  very 
beginning  of  time.  There  has  been  sounding  in  my  ears  the  declar- 
ation made,  again  and  again,  by  the  Lord  of  heaven  in  the  revela- 
tions that  were  given  to  the  prophet  of  this  dispensation  in  the  be- 
ginning of  this  work.  You  who  are  familiar  with  the  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  know  that  many  of  those  revelations  commence 
with  language  something  like  this :  "Behold,  a  marvelous  and  won- 
derful work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men."  I 
could  not  help  but  think,  as  I  looked  upon  this  vast  congregation, 
how  wonderfully  the  promise  of  the  Lord  has  been  fulfilled  that 
was  made  through  the  mouth  of  his  prophet,  even  before  there  was 
any  Church  organization.  I  take  it  that  nowhere  upon  the  face  of 
the  whole  earth  this  Sabbath  day  is  there  such  a  gathering  to  worship 
God  as  we  have  here  in  this  great  tabernacle,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
thousands  who  are  gathered  in  other  buildings  upon  this  ground. 


98 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


It  seems  astounding  to  me  that  men  who  observe  the  ever  increas- 
ing strength  of  this  cause  cannot  discern  the  hand  of  God  and  his 
power  in  this  work  of  the  latter  times. 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  laboring  in  the  British  mission, 
I  attended  upon  one  occasion  a  lecture  that  was  delivered  by  Mr. 
Charles  H.  Bradlaugh.  His  lecture  was  entitled,  "Is  Christianity 
a  persecuting  religion?"  And  he  told  a  most  terrible  story  of  the 
things  that  had  been  perpetrated  in  the  name  of  religion.  A  young 
man  in  the  congregation  wanted  to  know  from  him  if  it  was  not 
an  evidence  of  the  power  of  God  and  the  existence  of  God,  that  those 
early  Christians  in  the  meridian  of  time,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  the  wisdom  and  strength  of  the  nations  were  opposed  to  them, 
were  preserved  and  made  to  prosper?  I  wondered  what  manner 
of  answer  could  be  made.  [  thought  in  my  own  soul:  ''Surely  the 
history  of  those  early  Christians  is  an  evidence  of  the  protecting 
hand  of  God."  I  was  very  greatly  surprised  when  that  great  in- 
tellectual giant  made  answer,  for  his  answer  was :  "Young  man, 
away  out  in  the  Western  part  of  America  there  is  a  people  whose 
history  is  more  wonderful  than  anything  that  has  ever  been  written 
of  the  early  Christians.  That  people  have  not  only  been  opposed  by 
the  nations  of  the  world,  but  they  have  had  to  contend  with  the  re- 
ligious prejudices  of  all  mankind,  and  in  spite  of  all  this  opposition, 
the}'  have  made  more  wonderful  advancement  than  was  ever  made 
by  the  early  Christians.  I  speak  of  the  'Mormon'  Church  of  Utah. 
Do  you  think  their  preservation  is  an  evidence  of  the  power  of  God  ?" 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  don't  know  what  may  have  been  in 
the  minds  of  that  company  of  men  who  heard  that  lecture,  but  in 
my  own  soul  there  was  a  very  great  degree  of  joy  and  satisfaction 
in  the  thought  that  when  Mr.  Bradlaugh,  with  all  his  intelligence, 
sought  for  a  religious  organization  that  would  parallel  the  history 
of  the  early  Christians,  he  had  to  go  to  my  people  and  to  my  Church, 
and  I  was  convinced  that  he  singled  out  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  reason  that  they  more  completely  di3 
parallel  the  history  of  the  early  Christians  than  any  other  religious 
denomination  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 

When  I  was  on  my  last  mission  in  Great  Britain  I  picked  up 
in  one  of  the  great  cathedrals,  a  pamphlet  which  was  headed :  "Why 
I  am  a  Roman  Catholic."  I  think  it  would  not  be  amiss  right  here 
to  read  a  paragraph  or  two  from  that  pamphlet.  It  was  written  by 
a  Catholic  priest : 

And  again,  when  Luther,  Calvin,  Henry  VIII,  and  their  followers  were 
starting  in  their  mad  career,  either  the  true  religion  was  then  in  the  world  or  it 
was  not.  There  isn't  any  room  for  argument  in  relation  to  that  declaration. 
Of  necessity  the  true  religion  was  either  in  the  world  or  it  was  not.  If  it 
was  they  committed  grievous  crimes  in  making  new  religions  to  oppose  it. 
And  if  the  scriptures  be  true,  that  statement  is  just  as  true  as  the  first  de- 
claration, for  we  can  read  in  the  scriptures  of  divine  truth  the  testimony  of 
the  Apostle  Paul,  that  "though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven  preach  any  other 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  Mc'MURRIN 


99 


gospel  unto  you  than  that  which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him  be 
accursed." 

So  declared  the  ancient  man  of  God  as  he  was  lit  up  by  the  in- 
spiration and  power  of  God.  So  that  this  priest  was  fully  justified 
in  making  the  statement  that  I  have  read,  that  if  the  true  religion 
was  in  the  world  in  the  days  of  those  reformers,  the  reformers  com- 
mitted a  grievous  sin  in  seeking  lo  establish  other  religions  in  op- 
position to  the  truth. 

If  it  was  not,  they  were  powerless  to  create  it.  It  takes  a  Christ,, 
not  a  Luther,  to  create  a  Christianity.  On  either  supposition,  there- 
fore, Protestantism  is  not  the  true  religion  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  believe  in  that  doctrine.  It  matters  not  how  earnest  may  have 
been  the  desire,  or  how  anxious  to  do  good  on  the  part  of  the  men 
that  we  speak  of  as  the  reformers,  if  the  true  religion  had  vanished 
from  the  earth,  they  did  not  have  power  to  create  it  or  restore  it. 
Thank  God,  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  we  do  not  assume 
an  authority  without  revelation,  like  the  religions  of  the  day.  We  are 
in  harmony  with  the  declaration  that  is  made  by  this  Catholic  priest: 
that  because  of  the  absence  from  among  men  of  the  truth  of  God  that 
was  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family,  it  was  necessary 
that  the  author  of  that  religion  who  is  the  source  of  power  and  au- 
thority should  restore  it.  The  message  of  "Mormonism"  is  that  in  the 
dispensation  in  which  we  live  the  Lord  our  God,  and  his  Son,  our 
Redeemer,  and  holy  angels,  who  formerly  exercised  authority  as  mor- 
tal men,  have  come  to  earth  in  their  resurrected  bodies  and  they  have 
restored  that  lost  authority.  When  the  infidel  could  see  the  marvel- 
ous character  of  this  work,  when  the  Catholic  priest  could  discern  the 
fact  that  if  the  truth  of  God  had  been  lost  from  the  earth,  it  could 
only  be  restored  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  surely  we  who  have 
received  the  restored  gospel  ought  to  comprehend  that  fact,  and  in  our 
souls  there  should  be  that  joy  that  passeth  understanding. 

I  am  glad  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  testi- 
mony and  understanding  is  in  the  hearts  of  the  men  and  women  who 
have  been  assigned  to  labor  as  missionaries  in  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  California  mission,  and  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  they  are  young  men  and  young  women, 
that  they  have  had  but  little  experience,  by  the  mysterious  power  of 
God  there  has  come  into  their  souls  an  absolute  conviction  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  according  to  their 
strength  and  power  and  ability,  they  are  delivering  that  message  to 
the  people  in  the  California  mission.  God,  in  some  mysterious  way, 
touches  the  hearts  of  men  and  women,  no  matter  how  weak  the  in- 
strument that  delivers  his  word,  and  brings  conviction  to  the  souls 
of  men,  and  they  come  out  from  the  darkness  that  is  in  the  world  and 
from  the  religious  nonsense  that  many  are  teaching,  and  receive  gladly 
the  truth  of  God  that  has  been  revealed.  It  has  been  revealed, 
men  and  women,  the  heavens  have  been  opened,  the  Lord  our  God 


100 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


has  made  his  appearance,  divine  authority  has  been  conferred  upon 
men.  I  would  to  God  that  we  had  the  power  to  declare  it  in  the 
ears  of  all  who  live,  for  it  is  the  truth  of  God.  May  our  Father  in 
heaven  so  bless  us  that  we  may  be  true  to  the  faith  and  work  out  our 
salvation,  and  so  let  our  light  shine  before  men  that  they  will  be  led 
from  darkness  to  the  light  that  has  thus  been  made  manifest,  and 
plant  their  feet  in  the  path  that  has  been  revealed — for,  as  God  Al- 
mighty lives,  the  truth  has  been  revealed  that  will  take  men  back  into 
the  presence  of  the  Lord  our  God.  May  we  all  travel  in  that  path 
faithfully  all  the  days  of  our  lives,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

(Patriarch  of  the  Church.) 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the 
opportunity  to  add  my  testimony  to  the  glorious  truths,  and  principles 
that  have  been  treated  in  this  conference. 

It  was  my  privilege  to  attend  the  dedicatory  services  of  the 
Alberta  Temple,  and  I  am  very  grateful  for  that  sacred  privilege. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren  concerning  their 
visit  at  the  Hill  Cumorah.  Kver  since  my  early  childhood,  the 
story  of  Joseph  the  Prophet  concerning  his  wonderful  experiences 
lias  been  a  very  touching  story  in  my  life,  and  I  can  scarcely  read  it 
or  bear  it  related  without  tears  coming  to  my  eyes.  It  was  a  most 
astounding  declaration,  for  a  boy  seventeen  years  of  age  to  make  to 
his  friends  or  his  loved  ones  in  a  little  family  gathering,  that  his 
name  had  been  named  by  heavenly  messengers,  and  the  statement 
made  that  his  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  ill  in  all  the  world, 
among  all  kindreds,  tongues  and  peoples.  Hundreds  of  us  living 
bear  the  testimony  from  experience  in  the  world,  among  all  civilized 
nations,  that  this  is  a  fact,  for  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith  has  been 
heard  and  is  spoken  of  today  for  good  and  ill  in  all  the  vvorld  among 
civilized  nations  thereof. 

Another  very  startling  declaration  made  to  that  boy  was  that  he 
was  to  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  receiving  that 
glorious  message  which  had  been  foretold  hundreds  of  years  before, 
that  in  the  last  days  the  Lord  would  restore  the  keys  and  powers 
of  the  holy  Priesthood  at  the  hands  of  Elijah  the  Prophet.  Some 
one  was  to  be  prepared  to  receive  the  keys.  This  youth  declared  to 
his  father  and  his  mother,  his  brothers  and  his  friends  that  this 
message  had  been  delivered  unto  him  during  the  night  of  September 
21,  1823.  About  twelve  years  later  this  glorious  truth  was  fulfilled, 
for  the  Prophet  and  his  associates  declared  that  the  Prophet  Elijah 
came  and  delivered  to  them  in  the  Kirtland  temple  these  most  glorious 
keys  of  power,  and  many  have  borne  witness  that  these  keys  have 
been  turned  for  the  blessing  of  both  the  living  and  dead. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


101 


I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
from  my  brief  experience  in  the  Church,  that  these  keys  of  power 
are  in  the  Church  today,  and  that  not  only  those  in  the  Church  but 
hundreds  out  of  the  Church  have  been  influenced  by  this  glorious 
mission  of  Elijah,  for  their  hearts  are  being  turned  toward  their 
fathers,  both  living  and  dead.  Genealogical  organizations  all  over 
the  world  have  been  and  are  being  organized.  Great  efforts  have 
been  put  forth,  and  family  circles,  both  in  the  Church  and  out  of  the 
Church,  have  been  organized,  records  have  been  established  and  hun- 
dreds of  people  know  not  why  they  are  making  this  great  effort; 
but  little  by  little,  as  time  goes  on,  more  of  the  representatives  of  the 
families  hear  the  sound  of  the  everlasting  gospel  and  come  out  of 
the  world,  if  they  are  not  already  out  of  it,  and  are  privileged  through 
the  inspiration  of  the  call  of  the  Lord  to  go  into  these  holy  houses 
prepared  for  him,  and  dedicated  to  his  name,  for  his  purposes,  that 
in  the  day  of  the  Lord  the  great  curse  which  was  referred  to  by  the 
Prophet  Elijah  should  not  come  upon  the  earth,  but  that  the  families 
may  be  united  in  the  bonds  of  a  family  circle  forever  and  forever. 
I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  keys  of  this  great  work 
are  in  the  hands  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church  today  upon  the  earth, 
and  I  am  very  grateful,  indeed,  that  I  have  been  permitted  to  officiate 
for  both  living  and  dead  in  these  sacred  houses. 

My  heart  is  full  of  the  warmth  of  the  truth  concerning  these 
blessings,  and  I  pray  that  God  will  continue  to  bless  us,  that  we  may 
do  our  part  when  called  to  labor,  whether  at  home  or  abroad,  that 
his  glorous  blessings  may  come  to  all,  that  the  families  of  the  world, 
the  great  posterity  of  Adam  and  Eve  may,  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord 
be  enabled  to  find  their  own  names  and  places  in  the  fold  of  Christ. 
I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may  all  find  our  places,  that 
we  may  be  able  to  stand  in  them  and  be  found  in  them  when  the  Lord's 
call  comes  to  us.  Whether  the  service  required  of  us  be  small  or 
great,  may  the  Lord  find  us  in  our  places  and  prepared  to  serve  and 
labor  to  bring  about  his  glorious  purposes. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  all  our  endeavors  to  do  good  in  all 
the  world,  to  know  the  truth,  to  defend  it,  and  to  live  it,  in  our  homes 
and  in  our  labors  wherever  called  to  labor,  that  his  blessings  may  be 
upon  this  great  work  and  all  who  are  engaged  in  it,  from  the  Presi- 
dent to  the  least  and  last  one  called,  whether  at  home  or  abroad,  is 
my  prayer  and  blessing  for  us  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  inspired  hymn  that  Elder  Ballif  read  was  also  one  of  the 
hymns  sung  at  the  conference  at  the  Hill  Cumorah.  The  author  of 
it  is  William  W.  Phelps. 

David  O..  McKay  is  absent  from  us,  as  you  all  know,  he  is  per- 
forming an  excellent  work,  presiding  over  the  European  mission  and 


102 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


also  over  the  British  mission,  and  is  accomplishing  a  splendid  labor. 
We  hear  from  him  frequently.    He  is  thoroughly  enjoying  his  work. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "God  is  our  refuge  and  strength.-' 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  E.  Frank  Birch,  president  of  the  Tin- 
tic  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  a.m.,  Sunday  morning,  October  7,  1923. 

Elder  David  A.  Smith,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  presided. 

Music  and  singing  were  furnished  by  the  Holliday  ward  choir, 
Cottonwood  stake,  under  the  direction  of  Charles  R.  Pike,  with  Tracy 
Y.  Cannon,  organist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Don  C.  Walker,  Rigby,  Idaho. 
The  choir  sang,  "Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell." 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  nnto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God1,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come;  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

During  this  most  splendid  conference,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
frequent  reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  we  commemorate 
in  this  conference  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  coming  of  that 
angel  to  earth  with  a  dispensation  of  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach 
unto  the  children  of  men  everywhere.  Truly  it  is  remarkable  to  review 
the  past  one  hundred  years  of  achievement  by  this  people,  and  it  is  mar- 
velous when  we  contemplate  that  from  that  humble  beginning  there  has 
grown  the  mighty  Church  of.  which  we  now  form  a  part.  And  truly 
we  cannot  contemplate  without  believing,  it  seems  to  me,  that  this 
Church  is  the  answer  to  those  prophetic  words,  when  we  contemplate 
that  this  gospel  has  been  and  is  being  preached  in  all  the  world  as  a 
witness  unto  all  people  everywhere,  and  the  honest  in  heart  from  out  the 
nations  of  the  earth  are  being  gathered  together  in  bodies  and  in  organ- 
izations, and  are  being  taught  more  fully  in  the  gospel  plan. 

We  note,  from  the  scripture  that  I  have  read,  that  this  gospel  is 
eternal.   It  is  everlasting  ;  it  is  unchangeable ;  it  is  today  what  it  was  yes- 


ELDER  REV  L.  PRATT 


103 


terday,  and  will  always  continue  to  be  the  same.  There  are  manv 
churches  uponi  the  face  of  the  earth ;  there  are  many  systems  that  are 
called  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  I  should  like  to  analyze  this  morn- 
ing, for  a  few  brief  moments,  this  word.  I  shall  refer  you  to  the  defini- 
tion of  the  gospel  as  given  by  Paul  in  his  epistle  to  the  Roman  Saints. 
He  says,  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ ;  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth ;  to  the  Jew 
first,  and  also  to  the  Greek."  So  that  we  see  in  this  gospel  as  established 
very  distinctly  two  things :  it  is  eternal,  and  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  the  salvation  of  all  men  who  will  believe  it.  And  the  Savior  said, 
"'He  that  believes  on  me,  the  work  that  I  do  he  will  do  also."  So  that 
true  belief  implies,  not  a  lip  confession,  but  works  that  will  harmonize 
our  lives  with  the  principles,  the  ordinances,  the  teachings  of  the  gospel, 
and  the  commandments  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  An  article  of  our 
faith  states,  "We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  man- 
kind may  be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel." 

We  have  in  the  world  a  great  many  faiths  and  a  great  many  gos- 
pels. But  let  us  apply  the  test  for  a  moment  to  them.  We  find 
recorded  in  scripture,  words  to  this  effect,  that  no  unclean  thing  can 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  The  man  who  is  a 
thief,  who  is  a  liar,  who  is  an  adulterer,  who  is  unclean  in  any  sense 
of  the  word,  cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  But 
the  gospel  is  given  as  a  power  of  salvation  from  those  very  things. 
Now,  I  ask  you  to  reflect  for  a  moment  and  answer  the  question  to 
yourselves :  In  all  the  history  of  the  great  Catholic  church,  has  it  been 
able  to  save  the  world  from  sin?  I  do  missionary  work  in  a  Catholic 
country,  and  I  recognize  the  fact,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  are 
many,  many  sincere  people  who  live  the  best  they  can,  considering  the 
light  that  they  have,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  sin  exists  today  perhaps 
to  a  greater  degree  than  it  has  ever  existed  before  in  that  Catholic 
country,  and  the  "power  of  God  unto  salvation"  of  the  Catholic  people 
is  not  being  manifest  through  their  church  nor  through  the  gospel  that 
they  preach. 

Now,  I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  three  or  four  hun- 
dred years'  existence  of  the  Protestant  churches  in  the  world,  have  the 
Protestant  gospel  been  able  to  rid  the  world  of  sin?  It  seems  to  me, 
as  we  read  in  the  current  press  that  we  are  constrained  to  believe  that 
perhaps  as  much  today  as  in  any  age  of  the  world's  history,  there  is 
crime,  there  is  vice,  and  there  is  disloyalty  among  the  children  of  men, 
people  professing  to  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  1  ask  you.  if  it  is 
what  Paul  says  the  gospel  is,  why  then  is  it  not  operative  in  the  lives 
of  these  people  ?  Can  they,  consistent  with  the  scripture  teaching,  be 
saved  in  our  Father's  kingdom  before  some  power  is  applied  in  their 
lives  to  cleanse  them  from  sin  and  save  them  from  it?  Why,  no.  In 
the  Book  of  Revelation,  the  Apostle  John  says,  ''Come  out  of  her 
[speaking  of  Babylon],  my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins, 
and  that  ye  receive  not  her  plagues." 


104 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


Has  the  gospel,  as  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
as  restored  by  the  angel  that  flew  through  the  midst  of  heaven  one  hun- 
dred years  ago  been  a  power  unto  salvation,  unto  the  children  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  who  have  received  it?  You  know  yourselves  that  it 
has  been ;  in  some  instances,  of  course,  more  and  in  some  instances  less. 
But  because  it  has  not  operated  in  the  full  cleansing  from  sin  of  all 
those  who  have  received  it,  judge  not  that  the  whole  system  is  wrong, 
for  those  who  have  obeyed  it  have  been  able  to  overcome  the  tendencies 
in  their  nature  that  were  contrary  to  the  precepts  of  our  Father  in 
heaven ;  they  have  been  able  to  harmonize  their  lives  to  his  will. 

Attention  has  been  called  during  this  conference  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Our  beloved  President  calls  that  document  a  letter  sent  from 
our  Father  in  heaven  to  his  children  here  for  their  guidance.  Now. 
those  who  have  lived  it  have  found  even  a  temporal  salvation.  They 
have  found  their  bodies  made  healthier,  stronger ;  their  resistance 
greater,  their  minds  keener;  and  their  intellects  brighter;  and  they 
have  wisdom,  yea  even  hidden  treasures  of  wisdom,  and  the  hand  of  the 
destroyer  has  passed  those  people  by  as  it  has  not  passed  any  other 
people  on  the  face  of  the  earth ;  for  statistics  prove  the  wonderful  fact 
that  the  death-rate  per  thousand  among  the  "Mormon"  people  is  lower 
than  perhaps  among  any  other  people  in  all  the  world.  If  it  can  do 
this,  then  it  is,  in  its  operation  in  our  lives,  the  very  power  of  God  unto 
salvation. 

On  the  first  Sunday  of  last  month  I  was  in  San  Antonio,  Texas, 
in  a  fast  meeting,  and  we  had  our  Saints  bear  their  testimonies  upon 
that  day,  as  they  do  at  home,  testifying  of  the  goodness  of  our  heavenly 
Father  to  them ;  and  one  little  woman,  in  fear  and  trembling,  stood  up 
in  the  back  of  the  hall.  She  had  only  been  a  member  of  the  Church 
for  five  months,  but  she  testified  that  she  knew  the  gospel  to  be  true, 
and  she  gave  as  one  of  her  reasons  the  following;  "From  my  infancy,  in 
the  home  of  my  parents,  I  was  given  coffee  to  drink.  I  grew  up  with 
the  idea  that  I  could  not  live  without  it.  When  I  became  a  wife,  in  my 
home,  we  continued  to  use  it.  But  for  the  last  five  or  six  years  I  have 
been  practically  a  nervous  wreck.  I  did  not  know  what  was  the  matter 
with  me.  All  I  wanted  was  my  coffee.  I  did  not  care  for  food.  I 
was  becoming  so  weakened  that  it  looked  as  if  I  would  have  to  take  to 
my  bed.  And  the  elders  of  the  Church  of  jesus  Christ  came  to  me  with 
the  message  of  the  gospel,  and  among  other  things  they  taught  me  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  and  the  Lord  has  said  that  coffee,  among  other 
things,  is  not  good  for  man."  She  testified  that  she  could  not  sleep,  she 
could  not  rest,  she  was  nervous  and  near  to  break  down,  but  when  she 
received  the  waters  of  baptism,  she  discarded  along  with  her  other 
bad  habits,  the  habit  of  coffee  drinking.  And  she  says,  "Here  I  stand, 
a  witness  before  God  today,  that  1  have  been  benefited  ;  my  health  has 
returned  to  me ;  my  appetite  has  returned  ;  my  ability  to  rest  and  sleep 
has  returned." 

Can  we  say.  then,  that  the  gospel,  as  we  have  received  it,  is  not  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation?    It  is  even  in  that  sense  in  the  life  of 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


105 


that  little  woman?  And  so  it  will  be  in  every  other  instance  wherein 
we  apply  it. 

All  the  ills  of  this  world  can  be  corrected  by  living  the  principles 
of  this  restored  gospel.  There  need  be  no  more  war,  there  need  be  no 
more  bloodshed,  there  need  be  no  more  strife,  there  need  be  no  more 
dishonesty  between  and  among  the  children  of  men,  if  men  will  only  live 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  No  man  needs  to  knock 
at  the  door  of  heaven  with  his  garments  soiled  with  the  sins  of  the 
world  and  of  the  generations  in  which  he  lives,  if  he  will  apply  the 
blessed  principles  of  repentance,  if  he  will  receive  repentantly  and  in 
faith  the  ordinance  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins ; 
for  although  his  sins  may  be  as  scarlet,  in  the  blessed  blood  of  our 
Redeemer,  through  compliance  with  these  ordinances,  he  will  be  washed 
white  as  snow,  and  he  shall  enter,  a  new-born  creature,  into  the  king- 
dom of  God,  even  as  a  little  child,  even  in  the  similitude  of  that  com- 
parison made  by  the  Redeemer  himself,  when  his  disciples  asked,  "Who 
is  the  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven?"  and  he  called  a  little  child 
and  placed  him  in  their  midst,  and  said,  "Whosoever  therefore,  shall 
humble  himself  as  this  little  child,  the  same  is  greatest  in  the  kingdom 
of  heaven." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I 
know,  and  bear  you  my  witness  here  today,  that  verily  the  angel  did 
fly  and  he  did  come  and  he  did  converse  with  the  boy  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  he  did  deliver  in  due  time  into  his  hands  the  records  that 
were  for  the  first  time  shown  him  a  hundred  years  ago,  and  the  boy, 
through  the  inspiration  and  revelations  direct  from  our  Father  in 
heaven,  translated  that  most  wonderful  book,  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It 
contains  a  history  of  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  It  is  being 
preached  in  all  the  world,  and  it  will  continue  to  be  preached  until  every 
creature  shall  have  heard  the  warning  message. 

It  is  being  preached,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  a  double  pur- 
pose, first  to  save  those  who  will  accept,  who  will  believe  and  who  will 
obey  the  sacred  teaching  of  the  gospel ;  and  second,  it  is  being  preached 
as  a  witness  against  those  who  will  not  do  so.  I  tell  our  missionaries, 
in  the  mission  when  they  are  discouraged  sometimes  with  the  fact  that 
more  are  not  receiving  the  gospel,  that  if  they  are  conscientiously  and 
humbly  and  earnestly  declaring  their  message  in  the  world,  they  are 
ridding  themselves  of  all  responsibility.  The  responsibility  of  carrying 
this  message,  of  a  truth,  rests  upon  the  membership  of  this  Church,  but 
when  we  carry  it  forth,  as  I  have  said,  and  declare  it  to  the  people,  then 
we  roll  the  responsibility  from  off  our  shoulders  onto  the  shoulders  of 
the  people  of  the  world  and  they  are  left  without  an  excuse. 

We  have  not  done  it  all,  by  any  means,  owing  to  the  magnitude  of 
the  work  in  the  missionary  field.  We  at  home,  I  sometimes  think,  little 
realize  it.  I  wonder,  sometimes,  if  we  at  home  are  inculcating  into  our 
family  spirit  the  missionary  spirit  of  this  Church.  WTe  cannot,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  side-step  the  issue,  it  is  before  us.  The  signs  of 
the  time  point  to  the  fact  that  the  end  is  near.    One  of  the  brethren 


106 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


said  yesterday,  "how  hear  we  are  not  willing'  even  to  recognize."  And 
still  I  recall  that  this  gospel,  this  everlasting  gospel,  this  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  must  yet  be 
preached  even  more  extensively  than  it  ever  has  been  preached ;  for  the 
Savior  said  that  as  the  culminating  incident  that  should  precede  his 
second  coming,  "And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in 
all  the  world,  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations ;  and  then  shall  the  end 
come."  Until  we  have  done  our  full  duty  that  responsibility  weighs 
heavily  upon  us. 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  attend  this  Church.  I  further 
testify  that  not  only  do  I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  man 
chosen  of  God  to  initiate  this  great  movement  in  the  world  was  a  pro- 
phet of  God,  but  likewise  that  each  of  his  successors,  even  to  the  man 
who  stands  in  our  midst  today,  Heber  J.  Grant,  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
He  speaks  with  divine  appointment  and  by  divine  power,  and  it  is  for  us 
to  listen  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  comes  through  him.  We  should 
cast  out  from  us  evil,  and  just  so  far  as  the  gospel  has  not  been  able  to 
perfect  us,  it  illustrates  the  fact  that  it  is  not  applied  in  our  lives  to  the 
full  extent  that  it  might  be  applied.  If  I  drink  liquor,  if  I  smoke  tobac- 
co, if  I  lie,  if  I  gamble,  if  I  steal,  it  is  not  an  evidence  that  the  gospel  is 
not  true;  it  is  merely  an  evidence  that  I  might  have  all  the  wires  and 
globes,  but  the  current  of  light  is  not  turned  on  in  my  life.  The  Holy 
Ghost,  that  was  given  me  as  a  spiritual  birth  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  is 
not  permitted  to  operate,  because  I  choose  to  love  darkness  rather  than 
light. 

So  let  us  clean  up  our  own  houses.  Let  us  take  the  word  of  the 
Lord  that  came  to  us  in  the  opening"  address  of  this  conference,  and 
as  parents  live  and  breathe  in  our  family  circle  such  a  spirit  that  we  can 
correct  the  evil  tendencies  of  the  age  in  our  own  children.  I  am  a 
parent,  and  1  realize  what  that  means.  No  one  knows  better  than  I. 
perhaps,  what  a  great  responsibility  it  is  to  keep  boys  and  girls 
going  just  right.  My  boys  and  girls  have  to  live  out  in  the  world;  they 
are  not  surrounded  with  all  the  environments  here,  and  if  it  were  not 
for  a  home  influence,  they  would  be  just  like  the  world,  I  am  sure: 
so  we  have  to  strive  to  keep  that  alive. 

I  do  not  wish  to  occupy  more  of  your  time.  May  the  Lord  bless 
you  and  help  us  to  live  more  in  harmony  with  his  teachings,  and  to 
clean  up  our  own  homes  and  our  own  lives,  that  we  may  live  so  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  be  in  our  lives  in  very  deed  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY 

(President  of  the  Canadian  Mission.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisterss  If  there  ever  was  a  time  when 
I  stood  in  the  presence  of  a  congregation  of  people  and  needed  the 


ELDER  JOSEPEI  QUINNEY 


107 


Spirit  of  God,  it  is  the  present  time.  I  appreciate  fully  the  great 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  an  elder  who  is  called  upon  to  occupy 
a  place  of  this  kind  in  delivering  the  message  of  life  and  .salvation 
to  the  children  of  men,  therefore  I  do  humbly  pray  with  all  the  power 
that  I  have  that  I  shall  be  directed  in  my  remarks  this  morning  by  the 
Spirit  and  influence  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

If  there  is  any  one  thing  that  has  impressed  itself  upon  me  more 
than  another  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  it  is  the  positive- 
ness  with  which  the  message  has  been  delivered  to  the  Saints  residing 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  I  am  convinced,  as  I  have  listened  to  these 
messages  of  truth,  that  God  has  never  permitted  anything  to  come 
into  the  world  pertaining  to  life  and  salvation  but  what  that  message 
has  carried  with  it  a  positiveness  that  has  not  been  misunderstood.  And 
I  have  wondered,  as  I  have  listened  to  these  inspired  discourses,  as 
they  have  come  from  the  lips  of  the  Prophet  and  the  apostles  of 
the  Lord,  how  it  is  possible  for  us  to  doubt  the  divinity  of  this  great 
and  mighty  work  as  it  has  been  established  in  this  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times. 

I  have  wondered  if  there  could  have  been  any  other  way  of  present- 
ing and  introducing  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Chrict,  other  than  the  way 
in  which  it  was  introduced  into  the  world.  God  has  a  message 
to  deliver.  Who  but  he  could  have  delivered  that  message  with  more 
positive  understanding?  When  I  reflect  upon  that  vision  that  came 
to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  I  realize  and  appreciate  its  power 
and  importance.  I  must  come  to  the  conclusion  that  God  has  estab- 
established  his  work  here  upon  the  earth,  because  of  ttie  fact  that  it 
was  so  important  that  he  came  and  introduced  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
who  is  the  author  of  our  salvation,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  com- 
manded him  to  listen  to  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  This,  to  my  mind, 
is  the  greatest  event  in  the  history  of  the  human  race  and  bears  wit- 
ness of  the  fact  that  whenever  God  has  a  message  to  deliver  to  the  child- 
ren of  men  pertaining  to  their  eternal  salvation  he  speaks  to  them  in  no 
uncertain  terms  and  impresses  upon  their  souls  the  necessity  of  coming 
in  contact  with  the  divine,  in  order  that  they  may  become  qualified  to 
assume  the  great  responsibilities  that  are  resting  upon  them  from  time  to 
time.  Subsequently,  when  it  became  necessary  to  fulfil  the  prophecy 
that  we  have  heard  read  to  us  this  morning,  that  same  positiveness, 
that  same  assurance  accompanied  the  message  that  was  delivered  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  was  delivered  to  him  when  God,  in  his  maj- 
esty and  glory,  together  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  him. 

I  would  like  to  read  again  a  passage  because  of  the  strength  and 
the  power  that  it  conveys.  It  refers  to  a  time  when  God's  judgments 
were  to  be  poured  out  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  as  a  witness  that 
he  had  spoken  through  the  instrumentality  of  his  holy  angels,  and  sub- 
sequently through  his  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  here  upon  the  earth: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the 


108 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth  and  to 
every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for 
the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven, 
and  earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

Now,  in  connection  with  the  delivery  of  this  message,  I  want  to  call 
attention  to  one  or  two  important  things ;  first  of  all,  this  message  of  the 
gospel  should  come  in  the  day  of  God's  judgment,  and  it  should  come 
in  a  time  when  we  were  to  call  upon  him  and  worship  him  who  made 
heaven  and  earth  and  the  sea  and  the  fountains  of  waters.  And  this  is 
a  day  of  God's  judgments.  So  important  and  so  mighty  was  this  gospel 
message  that  was  committed  to  this  angel  that  it  was  necessary  for  him 
to  come  not  only  once  in  that  night  when  he  delivered  himself  with  the 
power  and  glory  of  God,  hut  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  repeat  that 
message — not  just  once  or  twice  or  thrice,  with  the  identical  words,  ac- 
companied with  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  that  he  held,  but  it  be- 
came necessary  upon  the  following  day  for  him  to  appear  with  the  same 
glory  and  majesty  and  power,  so  that  there  would  be  no  mistake  made  in 
the  delivering  of  that  gospel  message. 

And  these  are  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  make  this  work 
stand  out  as  the  great  gospel  plan  of  God,  as  he  has  revealed  it  to  the 
children  of  men  through  his  divine  and  inspired  prophet  in  this  day  and 
time.  And  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  as  we  carry  this  message  to 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  we  are  convinced  as  we  give  our 
testimony  that  God  speaks,  and  speaks  with  that  power  that  causes 
strength  to  be  added  to  the  testimonies  that  we  have  in  the  mission 
field,  and  we  are  able,  through  this  divine  power  of  God  to  develop 
that  love  within  our  souls  for  the  hearts  and  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  so  that  they  may  understand  and  appreciate  what  God 
has  said  in  this  day  and  time.  It  is  a  mighty  message,  a  message, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  sons  and  our  daughters  are  car- 
rying with  them  in  humility;  and  understanding  the  powrer  there 
is  in  humility,  they  pray  as  they  never  prayed  in,  all  their  lives 
before,  so  that  they  can  come  in  direct  contact  with  that  union  that 
connects  them  with  God  the  eternal  Father. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that 
God  speaks  to  his  prophets  here  upon  the  earth,  because  I  am  a 
living  witness  in  seeing  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  in  the  convinc- 
ing of  the, honest  in  heart  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work,  I  have 
heard  them  testify  that  they  have  been  lit  up  to  that  extent  that 
they  have  had  the  courage  of  their  convictions  to  come  and 
apply  for  baptism  and  testify  of  God's  great  and  mighty  power.  I 
know  that  he  lives,  and  I  know  that  this  is  his  Church.  I  am  a 
living  manifestation  of  his  power.  I  have  been  raised,  as  it  were, 
from  the  dead,  to  life  eternal,  and  I  bear  witness  of  God's  power 
as  it  has  been  made  manifest  through  his  holy  priesthood. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY 


109 


God  grant  that  we  will  appreciate,  as  the  days  come  and  go, 
the  power  there  is  in  this  Church,  the  divine  instruments  that 
we  have  in  proclaiming  and  living  this  great  religion  that  has 
come  to  "-us.  O,  may  we  be  humble  and  prayerful  and  bring  into 
our  very  souls  a  love  for  one  another  and  appreciate  the  injunction 
that  Christ  himself  gave  when  he  made  that  declaration  in  answer  to 
the  question,  Which  of  all  the  commandments  is  the  greatest?  "Love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  with 
all  thy  mind,"  and  then,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

God  grant  that  we  will  take  advantage  of  this  privilege  granted 
unto  us  of  cultivating  that  divine  love,  that  there  will  be  strength 
added  to  the  testimonies  that  we  already  have,  that  we  may  have  the 
courage  of  our  convictions  and  convey  this  truth  in  power  and  in 
strength,  to  the  convincing  of  the  thousands  who  are  ready  to  under- 
stand it  and  accept  it.  God  bless  these  remarks  to  our  good  and  us 
to  the  service  of  God  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  tenor  solo  was  sung  by  Elder  John  Bowers,  entitled,  "Hosanna." 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission.) 

I  Avill  read  a  few  of  the  words  of  Moroni  to  the  people : 

"Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be 
wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how  merciful 
the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation  of  Adam,  even 
down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it  in  your 
hearts." 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  verse  is  a  preparation  to  the  people 
who  may  read  this  holy  book,  that  they  shall  have  in  their  hearts 
a  desire  to  know  the  truth,  and  to  have  brought  to  their  remembrance 
the  fact  that  God  has  been  good  to  his  children  upon  the  earth ;  and 
that,  irrespective  of  the  many  things  that  they  have  done  which  have 
been  evil  in  his  sight,  God  has  been  willing  to  forgive  them,  make  him- 
self manifest  to  them,  and  bear  record  of  the  truthfulness  of  his  word. 
W  hen  we  realize  how  good  God  has  been  to  us,  then  desire  and  hope 
come  into  our  hearts,  and  make  us  humble  before  God,  and  we  rather  feel 
that  God  will  also  be  merciful  unto  us,  his  children,  and  bring  testimony 
into  our  hearts.  I  dare  say  that  whoever  reads  this  holy  book,  and 
reads  this  first  verse,  will  have  a  desire  that  God  shall  be  merciful  to 
him,  as  he  has  been  merciful  unto  his  people  before: 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

What  we  can  know  and  find  out  for  oursleves  is  the  truthfulness 


110 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


of  God's  word  to  us  as  found  in  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  If  we  shall  have  real  intent  in  our  hearts  to  know,  then  God. 
will  manifest  the  truth  of  these  things  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Some,  even  among  our  own  people,  will  think  from  reading  these  words 
that  they  can  commence  at  the  beginning  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
read  it  through  and  a  divine  testimony  will  come  of  the  truthfulness 
of  the  book.  We  are  forgetting  that  we  must  have  a  desire  in  our 
hearts  to  know  and  have  real  intent  and  sincerity  back  of  us ;  and  then 
shall  the  testimony  of  God  the  eternal  Father  come  to  us  as  to  the  truth- 
fulness of  this  holy  book. 

God  always  has  left  testimony  and  has  borne  the  same  to  all  of 
his  people  that  they  may  know  of  the  truthfulness  of  his  work.  It 
is  the  testimony  given  to  us  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of 
God  that  makes!  us  know  of  its  truthfulness.  I  am  not  leaving  out  the 
fact  that  we  must  study,  that  we  shall  seek  God,  that  God  is  intelligence  ; 
I  am  not  forgetting  all  of  these  things,  but  by  the  power  and  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  comes  testimony  in  our  hearts. 

God,  speaking  unto  his  people  at  the  baptism  of  the  Savior,  bore 
record  to  the  people  and  to  the  world,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son."  When 
he  appeared  to  the  Nephites,  God  bore  testimony  again,  "This  is  my 
beloved  Son."  In  this  day,  unto  Joseph  Smith,  God  again  bore  testi- 
mony, "This  is  my  Son."  And  who  can  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
or  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  or  the  Bible,  the  simple  testimony  of 
God,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,"  and  with  a  prayer  in  his  heart,  with- 
out feeling  that  God  is  speaking  to  us,  and  that  we  know  for  a  surety 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son? 

You  remember  when  the  sons  of  Helaman  went  out  to  war  for 
their  liberty  against  their  own  people  that  they  said  in  speaking  to 
the  people,  "We  do  not  doubt  our  mothers  knew  it."  The  testimony 
of  God  had  been  given  to  the  two  thousand  by  the  testimony  of  their 
mothers  at  home.  It  was  that  simple,  beautiful  statement,  that  came 
from  the  lips  of  the  mother  that  made  the  boys  seek  after  God  the 
eternal  Father,  and  they  did  not  doubt,  because,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  came  testimony  into  their  hearts. 

As  a  boy,  I  used  to  go  to  fast  meeting  and  wonder  why  father 
and  mother  would  insist  that  I  go  to  a  meeting  of  that  kind,  where 
men  and  women  were  standing  up  one  after  another  and  saying,  "I 
know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God."  How  well  they  knew  that,  as  I  sat  Sunday 
after  Sunday  in  the  meeting  hearing  what  to  me  are  now  beautiful 
testimonies,  that  testimony  was  coming  into  my  heart  and  helping  me 
to  understand  that  God  indeed  does  live  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
Son. 

You  mothers  and  fathers,  bear  testimony  in  our  fast  meetings,  and 
our  other  meetings,  as  to  the  truthfulness  of  God's  work,  that  the 
people  may  hear  your  testimony,  but  I  sometimes  wonder  how  often 
we  take  our  boys  and  our  girls  on  one  side,  or  how  often  we  gather 


ELDER  JOHN  II,  TAYLOR  111 

them  before  the  family  fire,  and  when  all  is  peaceful  and  quiet,  bear 
testimony  as  fathers  and  mothers  to  the  girl  and  the  boy  and  let  them 
know  from  our  lips  that  God  lives  and  that  he  has  spoken  again  in 
these  latter  clays.  That  testimony  shall  stay  with  the  boys  and  with 
the  girls  and  go  with  them  into  many  lands  and  fields,  and  some  day, 
because  of  the  simple  testimony  from  the  father  and  the  mother,  that 
boy  and  that  girl  shall  bear  testimony  unto  the  world  of  the  truthfulness 
of  God's  gospel,  because  you  made  it  possible  and  softened  their  hearts 
that  they  wanted  to  know1  for  themselves  as  to  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  grateful  for  this  gospel.  I  am  glad  that  it  is  a  gospel  where 
you  have  to  fight  your  own  fight ;  for,  not  forgetting  the  beloved 
mercies  of  God  the  eternal  Father  and  his  Son — not  forgetting  all  of 
these  wonderful  things — after  all,  it  is  an  individual  fight  with  the 
help  of  God  to  win  your  life  through  and  make  it  worth  while.  Jesus 
Christ  presented  his  plan,  and  the  son  of  the  morning  presented  his 
plan.  We  accepted  the  plan  of  Christ,  and  now  Satan,  it  seems  to  me, 
would  lull  us  into  the  sleep  of  forgetfulness  that  we  havd  accepted  the 
plan  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  meant  free  agency,  and  brought  us  to 
the  fighting  ranks,  into  the  front  of  the  line ;  and  he  sought  to  substi- 
tute his  plan  which  lost  out  once,  and  must  ever  lose  because  it  is  not  a 
just  plan.  If  we  win  out,  it  is  through  the  mercies  of  God  and  the 
lives  that  we  live.  I  would  rather  lose  the  fight  and  pay  the  penalty, 
and  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  than  to  belong  to  something 
that  would  make  me  feel  that  I  could  disobey  the  laws  of  God  and  still 
so  back  into  the  presence  of  my  Maker. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us.  May  the  sweet  testimony  of 
his  Spirit  come  into  our  hearts  and  into  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and 
girls,  that  this  Church  may  continue  to  grow  and  increase  in  spiritual 
power  and,  because  of  the  lives  of  the  people  and  the  testimonies  that 
God  has  given  to  us,  stand  out  as  a  living  testimony  to  the  world  that 
this  indeed  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission.) 

My  soul  has  been  stirred,  as  never  before,  during  the  sessions  of 
this  conference. 

I  desire  that  I  may  have  the  same  sweet  spirit  that  has  influenced 
the  remarks  of  my  brethren.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  one  thought 
that  has  impressed  me. 

Frequent  reference  has  been  made  to  the  holy  scriptures,  the 
Bible,  the  ISook  of  Mormon,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  as  the  in- 
spired word  of  God.    As  I  listened  to  the  opening  address  of  Presi- 


112 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


dent  Grant,  and  others  of  the  brethren  who  have  spoken,  1  have  felt 
in  my  heart  their  testimony  and  words  of  instruction,  were  just  as 
binding  upoq  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  any  part  of  the  written  word. 

"Holy  men  of  old  wrote  and  spoke  as  they  were  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost." 

Prophets  of  God  live  today,  and  when  moved  upon  by  that  same 
power,  their  message  is  of  equal  force  upon  the  world  and  particularly 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  the  word  of  God  spoken  or  written  centuries 
ago. 

All  who  listened  to  the  testimony  and  instructions  of  President 
Grant  must  have  felt,  in,  their  souls,  that  he  spoke  as  one  having  au- 
thority, commissioned  of  God  to  declare  his  message  to  the  Saints  of 
latter  days.  The  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every 
one  that  believes,  and  obeys  its  teachings.  A  testimony  of  its  truth 
is  not  reserved  for  the  presiding  brethren  of  the  Church.  It  is  with- 
in the  power  of  every  baptized  believer  to  have  assurance  and  testi- 
mony that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  thac  Joseph  Smith 
not  only  was,  but  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  also  that  those  who 
are  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today  have  the  same  authority  and  power 
possessed  by  Joseph  Smith.  We  will  reserve  that  witness  of  the 
Spirit  in  direct  proportion  to  our  obedience  to'  law.  If  we  are  im- 
plicit and  absolute  in  our  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God 
we  shall  know  the  truth.    Jesus  said  to  the  Jews  who  believed  in  him, 

"If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed,  and 
ye  shall  know  the  truth  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 

I  read  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  one : 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance;" 
"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and  does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven ;" 

"And  he  that  repents  not.  from  him  shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which 
he  has  received,  for  any  spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts." 

"And  again  verily  I  say  unto  you,  -  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh," 

"For  1  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  Cometh  ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace 
shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own 
dominion." 

We  must  keep  ourselves  clean  and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of 
the  world. 

!  have  here,  a  clipping  that  was  forcibly  brought  to  my  mind 
this  morning.  Reference  was  made  by  one  of  the  speakers  to  the  fact 
that  a  minister  of  one  of  the  great  Protestant  churches  in  a  convention 
recently  held,  declared  that  the  churches  had  no  message  for  the 
world.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  has  a 
message  for  the  world,  which  is  definite  and  positive.  That  message 
was  delivered  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  early  part  of  the 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


113 


nineteenth  century,  by  messengers  sent  from  the  presence  of  God.  It 
is  the  message  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness  and  power. 
The  clipping  1  have  is  from  a  Minneapolis  paper  and  reports  the  Rev. 
C.  E.  Ames  of  the  Congregational  church  as  saying: 

"In  a  spiritual  sense  there  is  a  crying  need  today  for  pioneers  to 
lead  us  into  new  lands  away  from  the  worship  of  idols.  We  need  not  so 
much  scribes  and  priests  as  we  need  prophets.  Prophets  are  spiritual  pioneers, 
pilgrims,  pathfinders.  The  spiritual  pathfinder  needs  faith  to  venture,  courage 
to  endure,  a  vision  of  freedom  to  strive  for.  He  cannot  be  satisfied  with  the 
life  about  him.  He  loses  smug  content  in  a  desire  for  better  things.  In- 
spired by  the  living  Christ,  the  prophet  for  our  day  must  lead  by  voice  and 
life.  He  cannot  permit  the  message  God  has  given  him  to  be  throttled 
by  any  force  economic,  social  or  military.  He  may  not  be  praised ;  far  more 
probable  his  lot  will  be  persecution,  but  he  will  lead  the  world  to  new  lands 
of  spiritual  growth  and  happiness." 

Truly  the  world  is  in  need  of  prophets,  spiritual  pathfinders.  We 
have  them!  Joseph  Smith  was  the  pioneer  in  the  dispensation  in 
which  we  live.  He  directed  the  attention  of  the  world  away  from  the 
worship  of  idols,  taught  the  personality  of  God  and  of  his  son  Jesus 
Christ  and  revolutionized  the  popular  idea  of  an  incomprehensible 
Deity.  He  taught  men  the  fundamental  doctrine  of  salvation.  Faith 
in  God,  faith  in  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  neces- 
sity of  personal  purity,  and  repentance,  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  and  every  other  principle  and  doctrine  taught  by  Christ 
and  his  apostles. 

It  has  not  been  necessary  to  call  a  convention  of  the  elders  of 
the  Church  to  consider  fundamentals  in  order  to  enrich  the  articles 
of  our  faith.  They  will  be  the  same  in  all  dispensations  of  time;  and 
will  lead  the  people  of  the  world  to  spiritual  growth  and  happiness. 
Joseph  Smith  did  not  permit  the  message  God  had  given  him  to  be 
throttled  by  any  power,  social,  economic,  or  military;  though  his  lot 
was  persecution,  hounded,  driven  and  plundered  by  his  enemies,  he 
bore  solemn  testimony  until  death  that  he  had  seen  the  Father  and 
the  Son  in  glorious  vision,  that  holy  men  as  ministering  angels  had 
visited  him  and  conferred  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  upon 
him  with  all  the  keys  and  powers  of  former  gospel  dispensations, 
and  that  under  their  direction  the  Church  of  Christ  had  been  estab- 
lished never  more  to  be  thrown  down.  We  Latter-day  Saints  are  his 
witnesses  that  these  things  are  true. 

In  the  days  when  Christ  was  upon  the  earth  he  called  the  atten- 
tion of  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  to  the  fact  that  many  of  them 
said  in  their  hearts,  had  we  lived  in  the  days  of  the  prophets,  we 
would  have  done  differently  than  our  fathers.  But  he  said  unto 
them : 

"Woe  unto  you,  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites !  because  ye  build  the 
tombs  of  the  Prophets,  and  garnish  the  sepulchres  of  the  righteous,  and  say, 
if  we  had  been  in  the  days  of  our  fathers,  we  would  not  have  been  partakers 


114 


CONFERENCE  PRO  CEEDINGS 


with  them  in  the  blood  of  the  prophets.  Wherefore,  ye  be  witnesses  unto 
yourselves,  that  ye  are  the  children  of  them  which  killed  the  prophets.  Ye 
serpents,  ye  generation  of  vipers,  how  can  you  escape  the  damnation  of  hell?" 

Joseph  Smith  undaunted  and  unafraid  went  to  a  martyr's  doom 
in  1844.  Future  generations,  no  doubt,  will  adore  the  name  of  the 
prophet  of  this  dispensation  whom  their  sires  put  to  death. 

Missionaries  of  the  Church  are  calling  the  attention  of  the  world 
to  these  great  truths  and  warning  them  of  the  judgments  that  are 
about  to  come  upon  the  earth.  This  year  is  the  centennial  anniversary 
of  the  visit  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pre- 
paratory to  the  bringing  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  In  our  mis- 
sion, the  Western  states,  we  have  stressed  the  coming  forth  of  this 
volume  of  scripture,  this  new  witness  for  God,  and  kept  it  prominent- 
ly before  the  people.  Some  of  our  friends  have  been  wrought  up  in 
their  souls  and  have  endeavored  to  stay  our  progress.  One  such  was 
kind  enough  to  distribute  a  little  pamphlet  through  the  eastern  part 
of  South  Dakota.  I  desire  to  read  a  portion  of  what  appeared  in 
the  article.    It  was  unsigned  : 

"In  spite  of  their  awful  doctrines,  they  get  followers.  There  are  multitudes 
of  poor,  deluded  folk  that  want  something  different.  They  are  easy  prey 
to  the  schemes  of  men  and  devils.  The  'Mormons'  are  skilled  deceivers. 
They  use  the  Bible  to  teach  repentance,  faith  and  baptism,  but  hold  back 
their  awful  doctrines.  They  teach  that  God  once  was  as  we  are  now.  and  that 
we  may  become  what  God  is  now.  They  teach  that  we  have  a  heavenly  Father 
and  a  heavenly  Mother." 

That  is  an  awful  doctrine  isn't  il  ?  1  have  not  time  to  read  all 
of  this  pamphlet.    I  call  your  attention  to  the  closing  paragraph. 

"They  say  that  Joseph  Smith  can  make  scripture  as  good  as  the  Bible,  that 
God  has  many  revelations,  as  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants and  other  publications  of  their  Church.  Records  are  kept  of  thousands 
of  living  persons  wdio  are  baptized  in  their  temples  for  the  redemption  of  the 
dead.  Their  writings  can  be  produced  to  show  that  they  teach  these  things. 
The  above  is  enough  to  condemn  the  whole  system ;  for  they  set  up  their  writings 
equal  to  the  Bible  and  leave  place  for  added  revelation.  Gods  word  is  a  finished 
revelation,  and  woe  to  him  that  adds  to  or  takes  away !" 

My  time  has  expired.  It  is  not  necessary  to  make  any  comment 
in  the  presence  of  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  shows; 
however,  the  attitude  of  the  world  towards  a  prophet  of  God.  The 
crying  need  of  the  hour  is  for  inspired  men.  We  have  them  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  are  leading  Israel  by  the  power  of 
God.  May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings,  that  we  may  appreciate  to  the 
full  our  responsibilities.  Let  us  turn  our  faces  towards  the  rising 
sun,  set  our  hearts  like  flint  against  the  evils  of  the  world,  and  en- 
deavor to  reduce  to  practice  in  our  lives  the  counsels  and  instructions 
that  have  been  given  and.  will  yet  be  given  at  the  sessions  of  this 
conference,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


115 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

( Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

I  rejoice,  this  morning,  that  I  find  my  soul  in  harmony  with 
the  remarks  of  this  conference.  I  thank  God  for  this,  and  pray  that 
while  I  shall  stand  before  you,  he  will  assist  me  in  the  remarks  I  may 
make.  Enough  has  been  said  already  during  this  conference  to  assure 
us  our  salvation,  if  we  believe  and  put  into  practice  the  good  advice 
and  admonition. 

In  looking  over  the  congregation  today,  judging  from  the  ex- 
pressions on  your  faces,  I  am  satisfied  that  those  who  have  attended 
feel  that  they  can  go  to  their  homes  fully  determined  to  carry  out  the 
instructions  received.  It  will  not  be  long  before  many  of  us  are  again 
plunged  into  the  affairs  of  business  and  some  will  perhaps  forget  this 
wholesome,  elevating  influence. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  accompany  President  Grant  and  others 
to  Canada  for  the  purpose  of  attending  the  dedicatory  services  at 
the  temple,  and  for  four  days  most  of  the  General  Authorities  were  in 
meetings  almost  continuously  for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  hours  each 
day.  Every  moment  of  the  time  was  a  joy  to  me,  and  I  thought  while 
there,  how  easy  it  would  be  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  if  I 
could  constantly  be  surrounded  with  such  an  influence.  This  cannot 
be,  it  seems,  for  we  must  labor  to  provide  food  and  comforts  for  our- 
selves and  families,  and  our  labors  take  us  into  channels  where  that 
spirit  is  not  always1  present.  Some  of  us,  I  am  afraid,  feel  it  is 
sufficient  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  as  they  pertain  to  our 
spiritual  welfare.  We  attend  sacrament  meetings,  our  priesthood  meet- 
ings and  other  meetings  that  are  held  for  our  benefit  and  edifica- 
tion. Our  lives  are  clean  in  thought  and  action,  yet  many  times  we 
overlook  the  fact  that  it  is  also  necessary  that  we  so  live  that  our 
every  action  may  be  influenced  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  In  the  world 
today,  it  seems,  people  think  mainly  of  their  selfish  interests,  hoping 
constantly  to  get  about  them  those  things  which  will  bring  luxury  and 
comfort,  and  in  their  anxiety  to  gather  about  them  luxuries,  they 
forget  God  and  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  and  Savior,  and  sometimes 
those  who  are  active  in  their  Church  work  give  way  to  selfishness  and 
greed,  when  it  comes  to  business  activities. 

On  our  way  home  from  Canada,  President  Grant  received  a 
telegram  from  the  Commercial  Club,  at  Great  Falls,  asking  that  while 
there,  President  Grant  and  party  be  guests  of  the  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce. President  Grant  answered  he  had  had  a  hard  week  and 
would  prefer  to  spend  the  evening  quietly.  But  another  telegram  came, 
requesting  that  President  Grant  and  party  be  guests  of  the  Chamber 
of  Commerce  at  Great  Falls.  Upon  arriving  we  were  met  at  the  train 
by  a  committee  who  took  the  party  by  automobile  to  tRe  Rainbow  hotel, 
where  arrangements  had  been  made  to  hold  a  reception.  Remarks  were 
made  by  leading  citizens.    In  their  statements  of  welcome  they  ex- 


116 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


pressed  a  desire  to  be  friendly  with  the  members  of  the  Church,  and 
encouraged  them  lo  come  to  that  country  to  settle.  They  stated,  not 
those  words,  but  in  thought,  that  they  were  not  concerned  with  the 
teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  were 
very  much  interested  with  the  effect  of  those  teachings  upon  the 
members  of  the  Church  who  had  gone  there  to  settle.  A  leading  banker 
made  this  statement:  ''We  have  discovered  that  where  we  have  *Mor- 
mon'  families  in  our  community,  they  are  a  hard-working"  class  of 
people ;  they  farm  intelligently,  and  confer  with  one  another  as  to 
the  best  method  of  farming  and  if  need  be,  they  co-operate  with 
one  another  to  get  the  best  results  in  their  farming.  Only  a  few  days 
ago  my  attention  was  called  to  a  condition  where  one  of  them  had  been 
taken  sick.  His  crops  were  ready  to  be  harvested ;  he  did  not  have 
the  means  to  harvest  them  himself.  His  associates,  seeing  his  con- 
dition, fixed  a  time,  went  in  a  body  and  harvested  the  crops  and  saved 
them  for  him.  This  is  the  class  of  people  we  want  to  come  amongst 
us.  If  we  have  more  of  them  we  will  have  fewer  I.  W.  W's.  and  Bol- 
shevists.'' I  do  not  know  whether  this  man  made  the  statement  purely 
through  selfishness  or  not  but  1  do  know  he  had  discovered  in  those 
few  farmers  who  had  gone  there  a  condition  that  should  always  be 
manifested  in  the  actions  of  those  who  believe  in  the  teachings  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

While  this  condition  is  seen  by  those  who  hope  to  make  capital 
out  of  it,  many  of  us  who  should  see  it  and  feel  the  importance  of 
cultivating  this  spirit  of  fellowship,  have  very  little  time  to  do  so.  It 
is  through  our  thoughts  and  actions  that  we  succeed.  If  our  thoughts 
are  unclean,  our  actions  will  become  unclean.  If  our  thoughts  are 
selfish,  then  we  will  become  selfish.  We  may  attend  our  meetings, 
pay  our  tithes  and  offerings,  but  at  the  same  time  hold  ourselves  aloof 
from  the  Saints,  and  thus  fail  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  fellowship 
and  personal  contact,  which  is  so  helpful  and  comes  only  through 
mingling  with  each  other  in  the  spirit  of  friendship  as  taught  by  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  W  hether  we  are  engaged  in  operating  a  store, 
laboring  in  a  professional  capacity,  or  in  any  other  of  the  activities  of 
life,  we  should  not  permit  the  spirit  of  selfishness  to  enter  into  our 
hearts.  We  should  look  upon  our  brother  in  need  as  one  to  whom  we 
should  stretch  a  helping  hand. 

The  other  day,  I  heard  a  man  from  Los  Angeles  make  the  state- 
ment :  "We  must  look  to  Utah  for  subsistence.  Our  farming  ground 
is  being  rapidly  built  up.  Utah  must  supply  our  meat,  our  poultry, 
our  eggs,  our  butter  and  our  cheese."  Many  times,  when  farseeing 
men  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  have  made  an  attempt  to  have  the  people  in 
their  district  see  the  importance  of  co-operation  and  recognize  that 
they  may  be  more  helpful  to  one  another  in  producing"  to  the  best 
advantage  and  for  the  purpose  of  putting"  their  produce  upon  the 
market  to  the  best  advantage,  there  have  been  some  who.  in  each 
case,  in  the  spirit  of  rebellion,  refused  to  lend  aid  to  this  movement, 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


117 


feeling  that  the  leaders  had  a  selfish  motive  in  advising  the  people 
in  this  manner.  There  are  a  few  in  our  midst  who  have  this  spirit  and 
they  mistrust  every  man  who  tries  to  do  good,  and,  perhaps,  because 
of  that  mistrust,  on  the  part  of  a  few,  the  large  majority,  rather  than 
force  their  ideas  upon  others,  sit  back  content  with  looking  after  their 
own  affairs,  and  because  of  this  we  fail  to  accomplish  all  that  we 
might  accomplish. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brehtren  especially,  that  it  is  just  as 
important  for  us  at  times  to  discuss  in  our  priesthood  meetings  our  local 
affairs  as  they  pertain  to  our  business,  the  crops  we  should  raise  and 
the  best  method  of  producing  or  marketing,  as  it  is  that  we  discuss 
things  which  pertain  alone  to  our  spiritual,  welfare.  In  all,  we  should 
be  guided  through  prayer,  faith  and  works,  remembering  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  to  Nephi,  as  found  in  III  Nephi  18:15-25 : 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  ye  must  watch  and  pray  always,  lest  ye 
be  tempted  by  the  devil,  and  ye  be  led  away  captive  by  him. 

"And  as  I  have  prayed  among  you  even  so  shall  ye  pray  in  my  church, 
among  my  people  who  do  repent  and  are  baptized  in  my  name/  Behold  I  am 
the  light;  I  have  set  an  example  for  you. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  words  unto  his 
disciples,  he  turned  again  unto  the  multitude  and  said  unto  them : 

"Behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  "you,  ye  must  watch  and  pray  always 
lest  ye  enter  into  temptation ;  for  Satan  desireth  to  have  you,  that  he  may 
sift  you  as  wheat. 

"Therefore  ye  must  always  pray  unto  the  Father  in  my  name; 

"And  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  which  is  right, 
believing  that  ye  shall  receive,  behold  it  shall  be  given  unto  you. 

"Pray  in  your  families  unto  the  Father,  always  in  my  name,  that  your 
wives  and  your  children  may  be  blessed. 

"And  behold,  ye  shall  meet  together  oft;  and  ye  shall  not  forbid  any 
man  from  coming  unto  you  when  ye  shall  meet  together,  but  suffer  them  that 
they  may  come  unto  you  and  forbid  them  not; 

"But  ye  shall  pray  for  them,  and  shall  not  cast  them  out;  and  if  it  so 
be  that  they  come  unto  you  oft  ye  shall  pray  for  them  unto  the  Father, 
in  my  name. 

"Therefore,  hold  up  your  light  that  it  may  shine  unto  the  world.  Behold 
I  am  the  light  which  ye  shall  hold  up — that  which  ye  have  seen  me  do.  Behold 
ye  see  that  I  have  prayed  unto  the  Father,  and  ye  all  have  witnessed. 

"And  ye  see  that  I  have  commanded  that  none  of  you  should  go  away, 
but  rather  have  commanded  that  ye  should  come  unto  me,  that  ye  might  feel 
and  see;  even  so  shall  ye  do  unto  the  world;  and  whosoever  breaketh  this 
commandment  suffereth  himself  to  be  led1  into  temptation."    *    *  * 

The  Lord  in  his  wisdom  has  given  us  a  commandment  which  is  a 
guide:  (III  Nephi  18:28-30.) 

"And  now  behold,  this  is  the  commandment  which  I  give  unto  you,  that 
ye  shall  not  suffer  any  one  knowingly  to  partake  of  my  flesh  and  blood  un- 
worthily, when  ye  shall  minister  it ; 

"For  whoso  eateth  and  drinketh  my  flesh  and  blood  unworthily  eateth 
and  drinketh  damnation  to  his  soul;  therefore  if  ye  know  that  a  man  is 
unworthy  to  eat  and  drink  of  my  flesh  and  blood  ye  shall  forbid1  him. 

"Nevertheless,  ye  shall  not  cast  him  out  from  among  you,  but  ye  shall 
minister  unto  him  and  shall  pray  for  him  unto  the  Father,  in  my  name;  and 
if  it  so  be  that  he  repenteth  and  is  baptized  in  my  name,  then  shall  ye  re- 
ceive him,  and  shall  minister  unto  him  of  my  flesh  and  blood." 


118 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


Yesterday,  in  this  building,  one  of  our  bishops  told  us  what  was 
being  accomplished  in  his  ward  by  way  of  leaching  the  young  men, 
holding  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  how  to  become  active  in  Church  work. 
Young  men  holding  the  Lesser  Priesthood  are  generally  of  an  age 
when  they  learn  mainly  through  observation.  Think  of  the  effect  upon 
these  young  men  just  beginning  their  ministry  in  the  Church,  knowing 
that  men  should  not  partake  of  the  Sacrament  unless  they  are  clean  in 
their  lives  and  in  their  actions,  when  we  disobey  this  instruction :  let 
Vis  partake  of  the  Sacrament  often  and  witness  anew  that  we  are 
willing  to  take  upon  us  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

I  see  that  my  time  is  up.  I  pray  that  when  we  go  to  our  homes 
we  will  not  feel  that  it  is  sufficient  for  us  to  labor  in  a  spiritual 
capacity  alone,  but  that  it  is  also  necessary  to  keep  with  us  such  spiritual 
guidance  in  our  every-day  walks  of  life,  and  apply  to  all  we  undertake 
to  do,  the  Golden  Rule.  In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  we  are  one  big  family,  and  to  receive  the  blessings  promised 
should  keep  in  mind  that  fact,  remembering  the  words  of  the  Savior: 
"Pray  always,  lest  ye  be  led  into  temptations,"  for  no  man  can  pray  as 
God  would  have  him  pray,  with  a  spirit  of  envy,  malice  or  selfishness 
in  his  soul. 

God  grant  that  through  our  efforts  to  serve  him  we  will  prove 
our  worthiness  to  receive  his  blessings,  which  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Let  the  mountain  shout  for  joy." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  L.  Rich,  of  the. 
Bear  Lake  .stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

The  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assemblv  Hall  at 
2  o'clock.  October  7.  1923. 

Elder  John  Wells,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  presided. 

As  in  the  morning  session  the  Holliday  ward  choir  furnished  the 
singing  under  the  direction  of  Charles  R.  Pike,  with  Tracy  Y.  Cannon 
as  organist. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Don  C.  Walker,  Rigby, 
Idaho. 

The  choir  sang,  ''This  is  the  day  which  the  Lord  hath  made." 

ELDER  NEPHI JENSEN 

( Former  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission.) 

I  am  truly  thankful  for  the  privilege  of  coming  into  this  holy 
place  on  this  beautiful  day  to  worship  the  God  of  our  fathers.    I  am 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


thankful  that  I  have  in  my  heart  a  desire  to  bow  my  head  and  lift  my 
heart  in  praise  to  the  Maker  of  all. 

I  returned  home  from  a  mission  to  Canada  last  April,  rather 
worse  for  wear.  I  was  a  little  better  than  a  corpse  and  not  quite  as 
good  as  an  invalid.  But  through  the  mercy  and  goodness  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  I  have  been  greatly  strengthened  in  my  body  dur- 
ing the  last  six  months.  I  am  thankful  with  all  my  heart  for  the 
testimony  that  I  have  that  God  does  hear  his  children  wdio  come  un- 
to him  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite  spirits,  in  the  times  of  their 
need  and  their  distress.  I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father 
shall  attend  me  in  my  utterances  this  afternoon.  During  my  term  of 
missionary  service  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada  I  learned  that  there 
is  very  little  that  any  of  us  can  do,  in  and  of  ourselves,  to  bring  to 
pass  the  righteousness  of  God  in  the  wrorld.  I  have  learned  to  know 
that  there  is  only  one  power  anywhere  that  can  really  purify  and 
ennoble  the  human  heart,  and  that  is  the  power  of  God's  Holy  Spirit. 

During  the  last  year  or  two  I  have  had  occasion  to  read  three 
noteworthy  books.  All  three  of  these  books  are  addressed  to  the 
great  theme  of  "salvaging  the  wrecked  civilization  of  the  world."  One 
of  these  books  was  written  by  a  great  teacher  of  psychology,  Dr.  G. 
Stanley  Hall.  The  second  was  written  by  a  distinguished  man  of 
letters,  H.  G.  Wells.  The  last  was  written  by  an  English  philosopher, 
G.  Bernard  Shaw.  All  three  of  these  distinguished  men  attempt  to 
answer  the  big  question,  "How  can  we  save  the  wrecked  civilization 
of  the  world?" 

G.  Stanley  Hall  gave  to  his  book  the  name,  Morale.  In  it  he 
attempts  to  show  that  the  spiritual  and  intellectual  wellbeing  of  the 
world  depends  upon  physical  wholesomeness.  He  arrives  at  the  con- 
clusion that  all  that  we  need  to  save  the  world  from  ruin  is  more 
abundant  physical  health.  The  professor  did  not  seem  to  remem- 
ber that,  if  the  heart  is  evilly-disposed,  the  more  of  vitality  and 
strength  there  is  back  of  it  the  more  there  is  of  fuel  to  feed  the 
flames  of  passion.  Morale,  in  the  sense  in  which  Dr.  G.  Stanley  Hall 
uses  that  word,  will  not  save  the  world. 

H.  G.  Wells  took  for  the  title  of  his  book,  Salvaging  Civilization. 
Mr.  Wells  is  an  intellectualist.  He  is  a  profound  believer  in  the 
supremacy  of  mind  over  matter,  lie  believes  in  education.  In  hi? 
book  he  goes  on  to  say,  in  effect,  that  what  the  world  needs  is  more 
education,  more  enlightenment.  Mr.  Wells  seems  to  have  forgotten 
that  the  brighter  the  mind,  if  it  is  attached  to  an  evilly-disposed  heart, 
the  greater  its  power  for  evil  in  the  world.  The  recent  history  of 
the  world  written  in  the  blood  of  millions  killed  upon  the  battle- 
field, and  the  tears  of  weeping  widows  and  orphans,  confirms  the 
truth,  that  brightness  of  mind  without  rightness  of  heart  leads  to 
frightfulness,  and  the  wreckage  of  the  world. 

The  last  of  these  writers,  the  philosopher,  G.    Bernard  Shaw, 


120 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


took  for  the  title  of  his  book,  Back  to  Methuselah.  You  know  Mr. 
Shaw  is  an  evolutionist.  He  tells  us  in  his  book  that  there  is  in 
operation  in  the  world  a  universal  principle  of  evolution,  social  evo- 
lution, political  evolution,  and  moral  evolution;  and  that  the  only 
reason  why  the  human  race  is  not  saved  is  because  men  and  women 
do  not  live  long  enough.  He  contends  that  if  man  could  live  a 
thousand  years,  so  that  the  process  of  evolution  could  do  its  effective 
work  the  race  of  man  would  be  saved  from  evil  and  error.  But  the 
philosopher  seems  to  have  forgotten  that  the  longer  a  bad  man  lives 
the  worse  he  becomes. 

Now,  the  strange  thing,  to  me,  about  these  three  great  books 
is  the  fact  that  all  three  of  these  writers,  of  international  note,  claimed 
to  believe  in  the  supremacy  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  moral  and  ethical 
teacher  of  the  world.  Mr.  Hall,  Mr.  Wells,  and  Mr.  Shaw  all  be- 
lieve that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  greatest  moral  and  ethical  teacher 
the  world  has  ever  seen.  Now,  just  why  these  three  men  should 
not  recommend  to  the  human  race  Christ's  panacea  for  the  ills  of  the 
world,  I  am  not  able  to  understand.  That  remedy  is  found  in  one 
simple  sentence  in  the  first  chapter  of  Mark's  gospel.  In  this  chap- 
ter we  read : 

"Now  after  that  John  was  put  in  prison,  Jesus  came  into  Galilee, 
preaching  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  saying.  The  time 
is  fulfilled,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand ;  repent  ye,  and  be- 
lieve the  gospel." 

In  that  simple  sentence  is  found  the  cure  for  all  the  ills  of  the 
world.  In  it  is  found  the  only  medicine  that  can  save  this  sin-sick 
world. 

When  I  think  about  it.  I  am  reminded  that  sometime  ago  Mr. 
Bok,  one  of  our  great  American  writers,  made  an  offer  to  the  world 
of  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  for  the  best  plan  for  bringing  peace 
to  the  world.  Some  time  subsequent  to  the  publication  of  this  offer, 
a  Florida  newspaper  came  out  with  a  short  editorial,  in  which  the 
writer  said,  "We  win  in  two  words — Stop  fighting."  You  can  turn 
the  world  from  wrecklessness  and  sin  to  righteousness  and  peace, 
with  just  two  words,  "Stop  sinning." 

Does  this  command  apply  to  me?  Yes.  It  includes  you  and 
me.  and  all  mankind.]  When  you  and  I  and  all  our  neighbors  are 
peaceable  the  peace  of  the  world  will  be  secure.  And,  by-the-by,  it 
is  not  the  usual  sins  that  damn  the  world.  I  used  to  say  to  my  com- 
panions in  the  missionary  field,  "You  need  not  be  concerned  about 
the  sin  of  robbing  a  bank,  because  you  are  not  going  to  rob  any  bank." 
It  is  just  the  little  daily  sins  of  you  and  me,  of  wrong-thinking,  that 
damn  our  souls. 

Now,  one  of  these  little  prevailing  sins  which  I  have  found  since 
I  came  home  is  the  sin  of  pride.  You  know  we  have  a  lot  of  people 
who  worship  the'r  automobiles  more  than  they  worship  God.  There 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


121 


are  many  who  have  more  pride  in  their  professional  skill  than  they 
have  in  the  beauty  and  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In 
my  profession,  I  frequently  meet  young  members  of  the  bar.  When 
some  of  these  young"  men  have  read  two  or  three  law  books,  and 
have  got  about  two  legal  ideas  into  their  heads,  they  begin  to  think 
that  they  are  too  wise  to  take  any  stock  in  gospel  truth. 

Now,  you  cannot  get  into  heaven  in  that  sort  of  a  spirit.  You 
cannot  ride  into  the  presence  of  God  on  a  high  horse.  Jesus,  the 
greatest  of  all  teachers,  said,  "Except  ye  become  as  this  little  child, 
ye  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  What  we  need  is  more  child- 
ishness of  heart  and  less  childishness  of  mind.  We  need  more  of 
old-fashioned  humility  and  devotion  in  the  Church.  Humility  is 
nobility. 

Just  a  few  weeks  ago  I  was  invited  to  spend  a  few  moments 
in  looking  over  a  splendid  Packard  sedan,  that  had  cost  $5,000.  I 
did  not  buy  it.  A  friend  of  mine  was  the  buyer.  Now,  while  we 
were  admiring  this  beautiful  car,  a  young  man  spoke  up,  "It's  heaven 
inside  of  it."  There  are  some  of  our  people  who  seem  to  think  that 
when  they  get  into  a  sedan  they  are  in  the  celestial  glory.  Now, 
don't  misunderstand  me ;  I  haven't  anything  against  the  automobile. 
It  is  a  splendid  instrument  of  utility  in  the  commercial  and  indus- 
trial world.  It  is  also  a  legitimate  source  of  pleasure  used  in  mod- 
eration. 

Many  of  us  have  become  engulfed  in  the  mad  swirl  of  worldly 
pleasure.  Our  age  is  coming  to  be  an  age  of  gratification.  It  should 
be  an  age  of  glorification.  In  every  age  of  the  world  when  the 
children  of  men  have  given  themselves  over  to  pleasure,  and  selfish 
gratification,  there  has  been  a  marked  decadence  physically,  morally 
and  intellectually  of  the  race.  And  in  every  age  of  the  world  when 
mankind  have  remembered  in  meekness  and  gratitude  the  God  of 
heaven,  and  have  worshiped  him,  they  have  progressed  and  ad- 
vanced, in  all  of  the  fine  things  that  make  for  the  ennoblement  of  the 
children  of  men. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  let  me  make  this  appeal  to  you.  Be 
not  deceived  by  the  glitter  of  this  vain  world.  There  is  a  deeper 
joy  than  the  pleasure  of  gratification.  There  is  the  joy  of  knowing 
God,  of  having  sacred  fellowship  with  him  through  the  Holy  Spirit. 
That  is  the  deepest  and  the  purest  joy  in  the  world.  We  cannot 
have  this  joy  unless  we  live  near  to  God  and  serve  him  and  keep 
his  commandments. 

I  am  thankful  with  all  my  heart  for  the  humble  part  I  have 
had  in  telling  the  world  of  the  great  things  of  God's  latter-day  glory. 
I  love  the  truth ;  I  love  this  work ;  I  love  this  people ;  I  love  to  wit- 
ness their  advancement  and  their  progress;  and  1  pray  that  God 
will  help  us  to  be  true  to  the  truth  and  faithful  to  the  faith,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


122 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  grateful  for  the  oppor- 
tunity I  have  of  standing  before  you  for  a  few  moments  and  report- 
ing conditions  and  affairs  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission.  I 
have  come  to  a  realization  as  never  before,  of  the  great  value  of  a 
human  soul.  To  the  degree  that  I  stand  at  the  head  of  that  organ- 
ization, I  have  been  entrusted  with  the  most  precious  things  that 
God  has  in  the  earth  and  that  we,  as  parents,  possess  in  our  families, 
your  sons  and  daughters.  We  are  endeavoring,  so  far  as  lies  in  our 
power  and,  according  to  the  best  judgment  we  possess,  to  guide  them 
in  those  wavs  that  will  make  of  them  what  God  intended  they  should 
be. 

We  realize  in  the  mission  field,  as  in  no  other  place  in  life,  the 
real  meaning  of  life.  And  I  want  to  say  to  you,  that  your  sons 
and  daughters  are  among  the  most  noble  creatures  it  has  ever  been 
my  good  fortune  to  affiliate  with.  They  do  not  hesitate  at  the  per- 
formance of  any  noble  duty,  no  matter  how  humble  or  how  much  it  may 
call  for  what  we  term  sacrifice.  But  when  I  think  of  that  term  sac- 
rifice, I  am  constrained  to  the  conviction  that  we  are  entirely  mis- 
taken respecting  it.  We  think  it  is  a  sacrifice,  some  of  us,  to  keep 
our  sons  and  daughters  in  the  mission  field.  There  is  no  blessing 
that  comes  to  a  father  or  a  mother  equal,  in  my  judgment,  to  main- 
taining in  the  mission  field  for  the  length  of  time  necessary  one  of 
the  members  of  their  family,  because  of  the  value  it  is  to  their  fam- 
ily and  particularly  to  the  young  man  or  young  woman. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  criticism  and  attack  by  those  who  have 
constituted  themselves  the  judges  of  this  community  and  this  or- 
ganization and  this  work.  I  think  the  best  answer  that  can  be  given 
men  who  attack  this  organization,  this  Church,  is  the  lives  and  ac- 
complishments of  the  boys  and  girls  who  go  into  the  mission  field; 
because  they  learn  the  best,  the  most  vital,  the  most  enduring  thing 
that  can  be  learned  in  all  the  world.  Your  sons  and  daughters 
stand  up  in  the  communities  of  Christendom  affirming,  with  all  ser- 
iousness and  in  humility,  that  God  has  spoken,  that  they  have  re- 
ceived a  witness  of  that  fact.  They  have  stamped  upon  their  lives 
the  great  fact  that  God  is  our  Father  and  that  their  duty  to  him 
and  his  children  is  the  greatest  consideration  of  life.  And  that  duty 
teaches  them  the  strictest  and  most  beautiful  morality.  It  teaches 
them  honesty;  it  teaches  them  service,  service  to  God  and  his  chil- 
dren. Can  there  be  formed  or  found  in  all  the  world  a  higher  idealism 
than  the  worship  of  God  and  the  service  of  his  children?  And  when 
people  attack  this  organization  and  this  community,  they  are  attack- 
ing the  highest  idealism  known  to  man,  found  in  the  worship  of 
God  and  doing  good  to  humanity. 

We  sometimes  think  that  the  missionaries  are  subjected  to  great 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


123 


sacrifice.  I  have  an  instance  in  mind.  There  is  in  the  mission  a 
young  woman.  She  comes  from  Sevier  county.  Her  name  is  Velma 
Nebeker.  She  is  educated,  beautiful,  and  possesses  all  of  the  requi- 
sites not  only  for  a  successful  missionary  but  for  a  woman  fitted  to 
occupy  the  highest  social  position,  a  woman  who  some  day  will  make 
her  mark  and  write  her  name  large  in  the  history  of  this  commu- 
nity. She  is  a  paragon  of  excellence  as  respects  appearance  and  dress. 
The  mission  needed  a  teacher  on  the  Indian  reservation  at  Wolf  Point, 
a  most  forbidding  place.  Our  Church  sits  on  a  little  hill,  wind-swept. 
It  is  desolate.  It  is  on  the  great  arid/  bottoms  of  the  Missouri  river, 
mostly  of  mud,  stunted  cottonwoods,  and  poor  growth  of  grass.  In- 
habiting that  particular  part  of  the  country  is  a  tribe  of  Indians,  and 
there  has  been  established  among  them,  or  was  established  during 
the  days  of  Elder  Ballard,  of  the  Council  of  the.  Twelve,  an  Indian 
school.  We  have  an  enrollment  of  nearly  thirty  pupils,  and  we  teach 
from  the  primary  up  to  the  sixth  grade.  This  young  woman,  among 
her  other  accomplishments,  is  a  school  teacher.  The  mission  needed 
just  her  stamp  of  woman  for  the  performing  of  the  duties,  necessary 
to  the  instructing  of  those  little  Indian  children.  I  called  her  into 
the  office.  I  had  been  praying  for  a  month  as  to  the  selection  that 
should  be  made,  because  I  recognized  its  importance.  And  when  I 
called  her  into  the  office — Wolf  Point  is  the  most  abhorent  to  all 
the  missionaries,  because  it  is  the  most  difficult  and  sacrificial  place 
in  which  to  labor — and  said  to  her,  "Miss  Nebeker,  I  want  you  to 
go  to  Wolf  Point,"  her  face  blanched.  The  tears  shot  from  her  eyes, 
but  she  set  her  teeth  and  said,  "I'll  go."  She  went,  and  I  said  to 
her  before  she  departed,  "I  want  to  say  to  you  that  when  you  re- 
turn from  your  mission  you  will  say — and  I  know  it  now  as  well 
as  I  shall  know  it  in  the  future — that  your  labors  in  Wolf  Point  have 
been  the  very  crown  of  your  missionary  labor."  She  is  a  heroine, 
and  you  men  and  women,  parents  in  Israel,  have  hundreds  of  young 
people  out  in  the  mission  who  are  just  like  that.  They  do  not  hes- 
itate at  any  duty.  There  is  no  sacrifice  they  are  called  upon  to  per- 
form that  they  do  not  go  willingly,  depending  upon  the  Almighty  not 
only  for  the  knowledge  that  they  disseminate  but  for  their  food  and 
their  shelter. 

We  have  recently  concluded  our  great  summer  work,  in  which 
the  boys  (not  the  young  ladies,  because  we  do  not  entrust  to  them 
that  duty)  have  gone  into  all  the  surrounding  country,  through  Ore- 
gon, Washington,  parts  of  Idaho,  all  of  Montana,  and  into  British 
Columbia,  proclaiming  the  gospel  without  purse  or  scrip.  And  I 
want  to  say  to  the  parents  of  these  young  men  and  women,  if  you 
want  to  give  your  sons  and  daughters  the  very  best,  or  leave  for  them 
and  fix  in  their  lives  the  very  best  that  you  can,  there  is  nothing  that 
can  be  bestowed  that  will  be  of  as  much  value  as  missionary  experi- 
ence. They  go  out  in  humility,  but  they  acquire  information  with 
great  rapidity,  and  some  of  our  boys  who  come  from  the  remote  dis- 


124 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


tricts  come  into  the  mission  field  crude,  it  is  true ;  their  grammar  is 
poor;  their  knowledge  of  the  gospel  is  almost  nil;  but  in  a  few  week-, 
you  commence  to  see  a  fire  in  their  eyes,  you  commence  to  see  a 
bearing  and  a  manner  in  their  attitude  toward  one  another  and  the 
world,  you  begin  to  see  an  intelligence  shooting  forth  from  their 
whole  being  that  was  not  there  when  they  came.  They  improve  with 
remarkable  rapidity,  and  it  makes  of  them  the  kind  of  men  and  women 
that  the  world  needs  for  its  regenerating,  for  its  saving;  because  if 
it  is  saved,  it  will  be  by  men  and  women  who  possess  the  quali- 
fication and  the  understanding  that  these  young  men  and  women 
have  who  go  out  into  the  world  as  missionaries. 

And  when  they  come  back  to  you,  they  will  understand  that  the 
highest  duty  they  have  to  perform  is  the  duty  of  marriage — parent- 
hood, good  citizenship,  as  children  of  God  our  Father.  And  it  can- 
not but  be  that  this  community  will  rise  to  an  eminence  that  has  been 
and  will  be  enjoyed  by  no  other  people,  because  of  the  younger  peo- 
ple of  the  community  and  the  teachings  that  they  receive  in  the  mis- 
sionary field  which  fit  them  for  the  great  duties  of  life.  They  learn 
that  it  is  themselves  who  are  responsible  to  themselves  and  to  God 
for  that  which  they  do  in  life.  They  learn  the  value  of  life.  They 
know  what  time  means.  They  are  preparing  for  eternity.  And  I 
want  to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  encourage  the  young  people  to  go 
on  missions. 

Do  not  write  discouraging  letters  to  the  missionaries  as  to  your 
circumstances,  if  it  can  possibly  be  avoided ;  it  affects  them  in  their 
labors;  it  affects  them  in  the  finest  duties  they  have  to  perform,  not 
only  there,  but  it  seriously  affects  their  future.  So  encourage  them, 
keep  them  out  there,  though  you  may  have  to  struggle  to  get  the 
money  to  maintain  them.  If  you  do  not  send  them  as  much  as  you 
have  been  in  the  habit  of  sending  them,  let  them  live  on  less ;  it  can 
be  done.  There  are  young  men  in  the  mission,  and  young  women, 
too,  who  are  living  on  very  much  less  than  some  others  are  using. 
And  even  though  you  have  to  restrict  the  amount  you  are  sending 
them,  make  every  effort  to  keep  them  in  the  missionary  field. 

And  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  here  at  home,  I  wonder  if  you 
are  measuring  up  to  the  standards  of  the  young  men  and  women  you 
are  sending  us  to  the  missionary  field?  Do  you  have  in  your  thoughts 
always  that  God  is  our  Father,  that  you  are  amenable  to  him  for 
every  act  of  your  lives  ?  Do  you  know  that  we,  as  we  stand,  are  great 
radio  stations,  sending  off  into  the  universe  just  what  w'e  are?  What 
we  think,  what  we  say,  what  we  do,  is  written  in  the  great  volumes 
of  the  future,  and  you  will  read  it,  you  will  hear  again  the  things 
that  you  have  said.  The  things  that  you  have  done  you  will  know. 
The  very  thoughts  of  your  hearts  will  be  inscribed  upon  volumes  that 
will  live  eternally.  . 

Let  us  remember,  brethren  and  sisters,  our  duty  to  God  and 
these  children  of  ours,  who  are  his.    They  are  the  greatest  heritage 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


125 


that  God  has  conferred  upon  us.  Let  us  be  careful  of  them.  Let  us 
teach  them  in  the  right,  so  that  when  we  as  well  as  they  stand  in  the 
presence  of  the  great  Judge  and  he  shall  say,  "What  is  the  judgment 
of  this  man?"  and  another  shall  say,  "What  is  written  on  his  heart?'' 
that  written  on  our  hearts  and  lives  may  be  the  great  desire  to  serve 
God,  to  labor  for  his  children  to  help  him  in  the  great  work  which  he 
has  established  in  the  earth,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

And  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters are  the  finest  objects  in  all  the  world.  Those  with  whom  I  have 
the  pleasure  of  laboring,  I  love  almost  as  if  they  were  my  very  own. 
Let  us  cherish  them — not  only  those  who  are  there  but  those  who  are 
here.  Our  neighbors'  children  are  our  children;  because  they  are 
the  children  of  God.  Let  us  labor  and  save  them  and  all  mankind  and 
enjoy  the  missionary  spirit;  for  that  is  the  spirit  in  which  God  ex- 
pects all  his  children  who  know  his  truth  to  labor. 

That  we  may  so  labor,  that  we  may  so  live,  that  we  may  so  help 
that  we  may  redeem  ourselves,  our  kindred,  and  help  the  Lord  in 
this  great  work  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "O  Lord  remember  me,"  was  sung  by  Beulah 
Huish. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

(Assistant  Church  Historian.) 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  attended  the  dedication  of  the  temple  at  Card- 
ston,  Alberta,  Canada,  and  in  speaking  of  the  dedication  of  a  temple, 
we  Latter-day  Saints  naturally  ask  ourselves  the  question :  Why  do 
we  build  temples  ?  And  why  did  ancient  Israel  build  temples  ?  Did 
they  erect  sacred  buildings  for  the  same  purpose  that  we  build  temples, 
or  why  was  it  that  they,  even  when  traveling  in  the  wilderness,  erected 
a  tabernacle,  which  was  dedicated  to  God  as  a  temporary  structure  in 
which  the  children  of  Israel  expected  that  God  would  be  nearer  to 
them  than  anywhere  else  on  their  camp  ground? 

The  prophets  of  old  frequently  sought  God  on  the  tops  of  moun- 
tains, and  sometimes  they  would  seek  him  in  forests,  or  even  in  the 
caves  of  the  earth.  Christ  himself,  on  a  certain  occasion,  took  three  of 
his  disciples  with  him  to  the  top  of  a  mountain  where  the  glorious 
transfiguration  took  place.  At  other  times  Christ  went  to  the  top 
of  the  Mount  of  Olives,  near  Jerusalem,  and  there  poured  out  his  heart 
in  prayer  and  devotion  to  God,  his  Father.  Yet  the  people  of  God 
have  been  trained  to  believe  that  while  the  Lord  can  be  found  anywhere, 
and  that  we  cannot  hide  in  any  place,  be  it  ever  so  remote,  where  the 
presence  of  Deity  cannot  be  felt,  there  is,  nevertheless,  something  very 
important  attached  to  the  matter  of  erecting  a  house  to  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  even  in  the  building  and  dedicating  of  a  meetinghouse,  a  taber- 
nacle, and  especially  in  the  building  and  dedicating  of  a  temple  which 


126 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


is  considered  the  holiest  of  all  structures  that  we  read  of  in  the  history 
of  sacred  architecture. 

THE  TABERNACLE 

We  find  that  the  children  of  Israel,  after  they  had  crossed  the  Red 
Sea  and  were  encamped  in  the  wilderness  of  Sinai  ( where  thev  spent 
40  years),  erected  a  sacred  structure  in  which  they  could  commune 
with  God.  The  Prophet  Moses  had  spent  40  days  with  the  Lord  on 
Mount  Sinai  and  God  had,  with  his  own  finger,  inscribed  on  two  tab- 
lets of  stone  the  ten  commandments  which  Moses  brought  down  from  the 
mountain  ;  and,  in  order  to  have  a  safe  place  as  a  depository  for  these 
sacred  tablets  the  "Ark  of  the  Covenant"  was  made  and  the  "Tabernacle 
erected.  The  Tabernacle  was  only  a  tent,  45  feet  long  by  15  feet  wide, 
pitched  in  an  enclosure  which  contained  about  one  quarter  of  an  acre 
of  land,  as  we  measure  land  in  America.  Inside  of  that  enclosure  stood 
the  Tabernacle,  facing  east.  The  Tabernacle  itself  was  divided  into  two 
parts,  of  which  one  part,  called  the  "Holy  Place,"  was  30  feet  long  and 
15  feet  wide,  while  the  other  part,  called  the  "Holy  of  Holies'"  (or  Sanc- 
tum Sanctorum) ,  was  15  feet  in  width,  length  and  height — thus  making 
a  complete  cube.  This  Tabernacle  became  known  among  the  children 
of  Israel  as  the  "Tent  of  Jehovah ;"  it  was  also  called  the  "Sanctuary" 
and  the  "Tabernacle  of  the  Congregation."  In  that  part  of  the  Taber- 
nacle called  the  "Holy  of  Holies"  was  placed  the  sacred  box  known 
as  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant.  It  was  only  a  small  box  about  4y2  feet 
in  length  and  about  2y2  feet  in  width  and  height,  but  it  was  covered 
with  gold.  In  this  chest,  made  of  shittim  wood,  the  two  tablets  of  stone 
were  placed  and  the  priests  only  had  access  to  it. 

TEMPLE  OF  SOLOMON 

The  Tabernacle  was  the  abode  of  the  Lord,  so  to  speak,  while  the 
children  of  Israel  traveled  in  the  wilderness,  and  also  for  many  years 
after  they  reached  the  promised  land.  But  in  due  course  of  time,  after 
the  Canaanites  had  been  subdued,  and  after  the  reign  of  the  Judges  and 
King  Saul,  King  David,  inspired  of  the  Lord,  became  desirous  of 
building  a  house  unto  God's  holy  name.  The  Lord  at  that  time  said 
that  he  had  dwelt  in  a  tent  so  far,  but  would  accept  of  a  house  that 
might  be  erected  to  him,  in  which  his  presence  might  dwell.  But  David 
was  not  permitted  to  build  the  house,  because  of  his  transgression,  and 
because  he  had  been  a  man  of  blood  and  war.  The  Lord,  however, 
directed  that  his  son  Solomon  should  build  the  house  which  in  due 
course  of  time  was  done,  and  thus  came  into  existence  the  Temple  of 
Solomon. 

Solomon's  temple  was  only  a  small  building  measuring  about 
90  feet  in  length  and  30  feet  in  width  and  height.  Hence,  it  was  not 
larger  than  many  of  our  meeetinghouses.  But  the  children  of  Israel 
were  proud  of  their  temple  because  of  the  very  costly  ornaments  with 
which  it  was  embellished.  The  temple  was  practically  covered  with 
gold — not  simply  with  gold  leaf,  but  with  gold  plate — as  we  understand 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN SON 


127 


it.  and  was  therefore  a  very  costly  building  when  finished,  so  much  so- 
that  the  enemies  of  Israel,  such  as  Egyptians,  Assyrians  and  Baby- 
lonians, were  frequently  tempted  to  take  Jerusalem,  that  they  might 
plunder  the  temple  of  its  gold  and  silver,  its  precious  stones  and  the 
precious  golden  vessels  used  for  sacred  ordinances  in  the  building. 
In  Solomon's  temple,  which  stood  upon  Mount  Moriah  (one  of  the 
four  hills  upon  which  Jerusalem  is  built),  the  children  of  Israel  wor- 
shipped about  four-hundred  years.  Then  the  captivity  came,  when 
Nebuchadnezzar  attacked  Judah  with  his  armies,  took  Jerusalem,  de- 
stroyed the  temple  and  carried  away  to  Babylon  the  golden  vessels  and 
the  costly  ornaments  which  had  been  placed  in  the  temple,  some  of 
which  had  been  obtained  from  Tyre,  Abyssinia,  Egypt  and  other  places. 

TEMPLE  OF  ZERUBBABEL 

But  at  the  end  of  seventy  years  the  children  of  Israel  returned 
to  their  native  land,  by  permission  of  King  Cyrus.  He  told  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  to  go  back  to  their  land  and  there  build  a  temple  where 
they  had  formerly  worshipped.  So  Israel,  led  by  Zerubbabel  and  other 
valiant  leaders,  returned  to  the  land  of  Israel  and  there  built  a  new 
temple,  which  became  known  as  the  temple  of  Zerubbabel.  But  some 
of  the  older  people  who  had  seen  the  temple  of  Solomon,  and  now 
watched  the  erection  of  the  new  temple,  wept  because  it  was  not  so 
costly  a  building  as  the  first  temple  was.  It  was  a  larger  structure 
and  contained  more  walls  and  more  cubic  feet  by  one-third  than  the 
temple  of  Solomon,  but  the  people  of  Israel  did  not  have  the  gold  and 
silver  and  the  precious  stones  to  ornament  it  with.  That  is  why  the 
people  wept,  and  not  because  the  second  temple  was  a  smaller  building 
than  the  first  one. 

TEMPLE  OF  HEROD 

The  people  of  Israel,  after  the  return  from  captivity,  enjoyed  that 
second  temple,  known  as  the  temple  of  Zerubbabel,  for  something  like, 
five  hundred  years.  In  the  meantime  the  children  of  Israel  had  been 
deprived  of  their  national  independence,  had  been  conquered  by  the 
Greeks  and  afterwards  by  the  Romans,  and  finally  the  Romans  ap- 
pointed a  certain  man  to  be  king  of  the  Jews.  He  was  a  wicked  man,, 
very  wicked,  indeed,  according  to  history,  but  he  conceived  of  the  idea, 
in  order  to  become  popular  with  the  Jews,  that  he  would  rebuild  the 
Jewish  temple,  lie,  therefore,  pulled  down  some  of  the  old  walls,  and 
erected  them  anew,  better  than  before,  and  then  finished  them  with  lav- 
ish ornaments.  We  sometimes  speak  of  this  building  as  the  third  temple 
of  the  Israelites.  In  one  sense  it  was  only  one  temple,  because  the  three 
successive  buildings  were  erected  upon  the  same  site.  Herod  simply 
rebuilt,  or  re-constructed  the  former  temple.  It  was  this  so-called 
Temple  of  Herod  in  which  the  Savior  worshipped,  and  that  is  also  the 
temple  of  which  the  Savior  said  that  it  would  be  destroyed,  because  of 
the  wickedness  of  the  people,  and  that  not  one  stone  should  be  left  upon 
another  of  the  building.   Any  visitor  to  Jerusalem  today  will  find  that 


128 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


the  Savior's  prediction  has  been  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.  There  is 
not  one  stone  left  upon  another  of  the  temple  of  Herod,  nor  of  the 
temple  of  Zerubbabel,  but  there  are  remnants  left  of  Solomon's  work, 
certain  portions  pertaining  to  the  original  foundations  still  being  in 
existence,  and  in  the  cavities  under  the  foundation  of  the  temple  are  the 
so-called  Solomon's  stables,  where  the  great  king  is  supposed  to  have 
kept  his  horses.  Thus  we  find  in  Jerusalem  today  workmanship  dating 
back  to  about  3000  years,  while  the  temple  of  Herod,  as  you  know,  was 
destroyed  by  the  Romans  seventy  years  after  the  birth  of  the  Savior. 

NEPHITE  TEMPLES 

Next  permit  me  to  draw  your  attention  to  the  Xephites  who  occupied 
the  land  of  America.  A  certain  statement  made  by  Nephi  and  recorded 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  has  caused  some  criticism  or  discussion.  The 
Nephites  had  been  in  America  only  a  short  time,  and  we  estimate  that 
there  could  not  have  been  more  than  300  souls  of  them  altogether  at 
the  time  that  Nephi  wrote  the  following : 

"And  I,  Nephi,  did1  build  a  temple;  and  I  did  construct  it  after  the  man- 
ner of  the  temple  of  Solomon,  save  it  were  not  built  of  so  many  precious 
things;  for  they  were  not  to  be  found  upon  the  land;  wherefore  it  could 
not  be  built  like  unto  Solomon's  temple.  But  the  manner  of  the  construction 
was  like  unto  the  temple  of  Solomon;  and  the  workmanship  thereof  was  ex- 
ceeding fine." 

Many  of  you  brethren  who  are  comfortably  fixed  financially, 
could,  single  handed,  build  a  temple  like  Solomon's  temple  with  your 
own  means.  You  might  be  obliged  to  follow  the  example  of  Nephi  in  not 
furnishing  the  building  with  so  much  silver  and  gold  or  so  many  pre- 
cious things  as  did  Solomon,  but  I  venture  to  say  that  it  was  quite  pos- 
sible for  a  small  number  of  Nephites  to  erect  a  temple  as  large  as  that 
erected  by  Solomon,  omitting  the  costly  ornamentations. 

It  is  also  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  the  Savior,  after 
his  resurrection,  appeared  to  the  Nephites  in  "the  temple  in  the  Land 
Bountiful."  We  do  not  know  how  many  more  temples  were  erected 
by  them.  On  my  recent  visit  to  South  America,  I  saw  a  number  of 
temple  ruins,  and  I  could  not  help  thinking  that  perhaps  I  stood  face 
to  face  with  some  of  the  walls  and  temple  ruins  which  had  been  erected 
by  the  God-fearing  Nephites  over  2,000  years  ago.  Of  course,  I  have 
no  way  of  proving  that  these  temples  were  erected  by  the  Nephites,  but 
such  was  my  first  thought  when  I  saw  the  remnants  of  the  temple  of  the 
sun  in  Cuzco,  Peru,  and  other  temple  ruins  elsewhere. 

TEMPLES  ERECTED  BY  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  erected  eight  temples  since  the  organi- 
zation of  the  Church,  all  of  which  have  been  dedicated  and  used  for  holy 
ordinances.  Besides  these  completed  temples,  three  other  temple  sites 
have  been  dedicated,  upon  one  of  which  a  temple  is  in  course  of  erection, 
at  Mesa,  Arizona. 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


129 


TEMPLE  SITE  AT  INDEPENDENCE 

The  Church  was  not  much  more  than  a  year  old  when  the  subject 
of  temple  building  became  popular  among  its  members,  as  the  Lord  had 
commanded  his  people  to  erect  such  buildings.  Almost  immediately 
after  the  arrival  of  the  first  colony  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  Missouri, 
a  temple  site  was  dedicated  at  Independence,  Jackson  county,  August 
3,  1831,  but  nothing  further  has  hitherto  been  done  toward  the  erection 
of  that  temple,  as  the  Saints  were  expelled  from  Jackson  county  by 
mobs,  in  1833.  The  temple  site  is  now  in  the  hands  of  the  so-called 
Hedrickites,  but  the  Saints  expect  in  the  future  to  erect  a  magnificent 
house  of  the  Lord  in  Independence. 

KIRTLAND  TEMPLE 

On  the  1st  of  June,  1833,  the  Lord  directed  the  Saints  to  build 
a  temple  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  and  on  July  23,  1833,  the  corner  stones 
were  laid.  In  less  than  three  years  after  that  the  temple  was  completed 
and  on  March  27,  1836,  it  was  dedicated  by  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet. 
One  week  later,  April  3,  1836,  the  Savior  and  other  holy  personages 
appeared  in  the  temple  and  committed  sacred  keys  of  the  Priesthood 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  Among  others,  Elijah,  the 
Prophet,  appeared  and  delivered  to  the  elders  named,  certain  keys 
whereby  the  Saints  since  have  been  enabled  to  perform  sacred  ordinances 
for  themselves  and  their  friends  and  relatives  beyond  the  veil.  The 
Kirtland  temple  passed  out  of  the  hands  of  the  Saints  through  per- 
secutions of  apostates  and  mob  element.  It  is  a  rock  building  80  feet 
long  and  60  feet  wide ;  the  walls  are  50  feet  high  and  the  top  of  the 
tower  is  1 10  feet  above  the  ground.  This  temple  is  situated  on  an  ele- 
vation overlooking  the  surrounding  country,  about  two  and  one-half 
miles  from  Willoughby  and  18  miles  from  the  center  of  Cleveland, 
Ohio. 

TEMPLE  SITE  IN  FAR  WEST,  MISSOURI 

Ground  was  broken  for  a  temple  in  Far  West,  Missouri,  July  3, 
1837,  and  the  corner  stones  were  laid  July  4,  1838.  Nothing  further 
was  done  until  April  26,  1839,  when  the  twelve  apostles,  in  fulfilment 
of  a  revelation,  held  a  secret  meeting  or  conference  on  the  temple  site 
and  re-commenced  the  building  of  the  temple  by  rolling  a  large  stone 
up  to  one  of  the  corners.  This  temple,  which  would  have  been  110  feet 
long  and  80  feet  wide,  according  to  plan,  was  never  built,  because 
the  Saints  were  driven  from  Missouri,  in  1839.  The  site,  however,  is 
now  owned  by  the  Church. 

NAUVOO  TEMPLE 

Soon  after  the  Saints  had  settled  in  Illinois,  preparations  were 
made  for  the  erection  of  a  temple  and  the  corner  stones  of  such  a 
building  were  laid  in  Nauvoo,  Hancock  county,  Illinois,  April  6,  1841. 
At  the  time  of  the  Prophet's  martyrdom  the  walls  were  up  to  the  win- 


130  CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 

dows  of  the  first  story,  but  under  the  direction  of  President  Brigham 
Young,  the  temple  was  so  far  completed  that  the  attic  story  could  be 
dedicated  Nov.  30,  1845,  and  endowments  were  given  in  that  part  of 
the  building  during  the  winter  of  1845-46.  The  whole  building  was 
privately  dedicated  by  Joseph  Young,  April  30,  1846,  and  publicly 
dedicated  by  Orson  Hyde,  May  1,  1846.  No  endowment  had  been 
given  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  but  the  ordinance  of  washing  of  feet  was 
attended  to  in  that  building.  Joseph  the  Prophet  gave  sacred  endow- 
ments to  certain  leaders  of  the  Church  as  early  as  May,  1842,  or  about 
four  years  prior  to  the  completion  of  the  Nauvoo  temple. 

There  was  no  baptismal  font  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  but  such  a  font 
was  built  in  the  basement  of  the  Nauvoo  temple  and  baptism  for  the 
dead  performed  in  it  as  early  as  November,  1841.  The  Nauvoo  temple, 
which  was  128  feet  long  from  east  to  west  and  88  feet  wide,  with  a 
spire  165  feet  high,  was  burned  by  an  incendiary  October  9,  1848,  and 
the  walls  were  blown  down  by  a  hurricane,  May  27,  1850.  There  is 
now  not  one  stone  left  upon  another  of  that  magnificent  edifice  which 
cost  the  Church  nearly  a  million  dollars. 

,  ST.  GEORGE  TEMPLE 

Although  a  temple  had  been  in  course  of  erection  in  Salt  Lake  City 
since  1853,  it  was  decided  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  erect  a 
temple  in  southern  Utah,  and  the  site  for  such  a  building  was  dedicated 
in  St.  George,  Utah,  Nov.  9,  1871,  by  George  A.  Smith,  and  the  ground 
broken  the  same  day.  The  mason  work  was  commenced  March  10, 
1873,  the  lower  part  of  the  building  was  dedicated  Jan.  1,  1877,  and  the 
whole  building  was  dedicated  April  6,  1877,  by  Daniel  H.  Wells.  This 
temple  is  141  feet  long  and  93  feet  wide.  The  walls,  built  of  red  sand- 
stone, measure  84  feet  from  the  ground  to  the  top  of  the  parapets,  and 
the  tower  is  135  feet  high.  Its  erection  represents  an  outlay  of  at 
least  $500,000. 

LOGAN  TEMPLE 

The  temple  site  of  Logan,  Cache  county,  Utah,  was  dedicated  May 
18,  1877,  and  the  corner  stones  were  laid  Sept.  17,  1877.  Seven  years 
were  spent  in  its  erection  and  the  building  was  dedicated  May  17,  1884. 
The  Logan  temple,  which  occupies  an  elevation  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
city  of  Logan,  is  171  feet  long  and  95  feet  wide.  The  walls  are  82  feet 
high  and  there  are  two  towers,  the  one  on  the  east  end  being  170  feet 
and  the  one  on  the  west  end  165  feet  high.  The  cost  of  construction 
is  estimated  at  about  $800,000. 

MANTI  TEMPLE 

The  temple  site  at  Manti,  Sanpete  county,  Utah,  was  dedicated  by 
President  Brigham  Young  April  25,  1877,  and  the  ground  was  broken 
five  days  later,  April  30,  1877.  The  corner  stones  were  laid  April  14, 
1879,  but  prior  to  that  date  much  work  had  been  done  and  considerable 
means  expended  in  preparing  the  ground,  as  the  temple  is  built  on  the 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


131 


top  of  a  hill,  known  since  1849,  as  Temple  Hill,  in  the  outskirts  of  the 
City  of  Manti.  This  temple,  which  is  visible  from  nearly  all  parts  of 
Sanpete  Valley  is,  like  the  Logan  temple,  171  feet  long  and  95  feet  wide. 
The  walls  are  about  85  feet  high.  The  east  tower  is  179  feet  and  the 
west  tower  169  feet  high.  The  building,  which  was  dedicated  May  21, 
1888,  including  the  preparations  of  the  ground,  cost  about  $1,000,000. 

SALT  LAKE  CITY  TEMPLE 

The  temple  site  in  Salt  Lake  City  was  selected  by  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  July  28,  1847,  four  days  after  the  arrival  of  President 
Brigham  Young  in  the  Great  Salt  Lake  Valley,  and  dedicated  Feb.  14, 
1853.  The  corner  stones  were  laid  April  6,  1853,  the  capstone  placed 
in  position  April  6,  1892,  and  the  building  dedicated  by  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  April  6,  1893.  Hence,  the  erection  of  the  Salt  Lake 
temple  took  40  years  and  the  estimated  cost  is  $4,000,000.  The  Salt 
Lake  City  temple  is  built  of  beautiful  granite,  quarried  in  the  mouth 
of  Little  Cottonwood  canyon,  about  20  miles  from  Salt  Lake  City. 
It  stands  on  the  east  half  of  the  Temple  Block  and  occupies  a  central 
position  in  Salt  Lake  City.  This  temple  is  1861/2  feet  long  and  99  feet 
wide.  It  has  three  towers  on  the  east  and  also  three  on  the  west  end. 
The  main  tower,  which  is  the  central  tower  on  the  east  end,  is  225  feet 
high  and  is  surmounted  by  a  statue  of  the  Angel  Moroni.  The  Salt 
Lake  temple  is  by  far  the  largest  and  most  costly  temple  building  erected 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

HAWAIIAN  TEMPLE 

On  the  occasion  of  a  visit  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  Elder  Reed  Smoot,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
Bishop  Charles  W.  Nibley,  in  the  summer  of  1915,  the  erection  of 
a  temple  at  Hawaii  was  discussed,  and  on  the  first  of  June,  1915,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  the  presence  of  the  two  brethren  named, 
selected  and  dedicated  a  spot  at  Laie,  on  the  island  of  Oahu,  for  the 
erection  of  a  temple.  The  matter  was  laid  before  the  general  confer- 
ence, held  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Oct.  3,  1915,  and  it  was  then  decided  by 
unanimous  vote  to  erect  a  temple  in  Hawaii,  in  the  interest  of  the  Poly- 
nesian Saints.  Work  on  the  building  was  begun  early  in  1916  and 
the  temple  dedicated  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Nov.  27,  1919.  The 
Hawaiian  temple  is  situated  on  an  eminence  commanding  an  unob- 
structed view  of  the  ocean.  It  is  built  in  the  shape  of  a  Grecian  cross 
and  measures  102  feet  from  east  to  west  and  78  feet  from  north  to 
south.  The  central  portion  of  the  edifice,  which  has  no  towers,  rises 
to  a  height  of  50  feet  and  the  temple  grounds  are  most  beautifully 
ornamented  with  all  kinds  of  tropical  vegetation. 

ALBERTA  TEMPLE 

A  temple  site  at  Cardston,  Alberta,  Canada,  was  dedicated  July 
27,  1913,  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  Later  the  corner  stone  was 
laid,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  David  O.  McKay,  of  the  Council  of 


132 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


Twelve.  The  temple,  which  is  built  in  the  shape  of  a  Maltese  cross, 
measures  165  feet  from  north  to  south  and  the  same  distance  from  east 
to  west.  The  walls  are  three  feet  thick  and  the  height  of  the  building 
110  feet.  Like  the  Hawaiian  temple  it  has  no  towers.  The  sacred 
edifice  was  dedicated  Aug.  26,  1923,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
in  the  presence  of  many  of  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church.  This 
temple,  known  as  the  Alberta  temple,  occupies,  like  all  other  temples, 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  elevated  ground,  which  overlooks  much  of  the 
surrounding  country,  and  has  cost  about  $782,000.  It  is  the  first  temple 
erected  outside  of  territory  belonging  to  the  United  States,  and  it  is 
considered  quite  appropriate  that  a  temple  should  be  built  in  a  British 
dominion,  as  the  British  Empire  has  contributed  so  many  thousands 
of  faithful  converts  to  the  great  latter-day  work. 

ARIZONA  TEMPLE 

The  site  for  a  temple  in  Mesa,  Arizona,  was  dedicated  December  1, 
1921,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  is  now  in  course  of  construc- 
tion.   The  corner  stone  will  probably  be  laid  next  month. 

Now,  just  a  word  or  two  in  conclusion:  The  Latter-day  Saints 
having  erected  eight  temples  in  these  last  days,  and  knowing  now  for 
what  purposes  temples  in  our  day  are  erected  they  should  be  energetic 
in  attending  to  the  sacred  ordinances  which  have  been  revealed.  It 
is  true  that  the  children  of  Israel  built  their  temples  different  to  ours, 
as  the  ordinance  work  in  them  was  done  by  men  bearing  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  while  the  temples  built  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  offi- 
ciated in  by  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Consequently,  the  internal 
arrangements  of  the  temple  of  the  Israelites  were  different  to  ours. 
The  temple,  erected  in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  was  also  different  in  the  inner 
arrangements  to  those  subsequently  built,  but  commencing  with  the 
Nauvoo  temple,  and  ending  so  far  with  the  Canadian  temple,  the  interior 
of  all  the  temples  are  in  most  particulars  the  same,  and  used  for  holy 
ordinances. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  true  and  faithful  in  the  discharge  of  our 
duties,  regarding  temple  work,  so  that  we  indeed  may  become  saviors  on 
Mount  Zion  and  do  what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do  in  the  temples,  while 
we  are  trying  also  to  be  faithful  in  all  things  which  the  Lord  has  com- 
manded us,  1  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  S.  TAYLOR 

(Former  President  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission.) 

After  an  absence  of  nearly  three  years  from  the  midst  of  the 
Saints  of  Zion  it  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  have  the  privilege  of  once 
more  associating  with  you  and  of  listening  to  the  inspiring  talks 
which  have  been  given  by  the  leaders  of  this  people. 

I  will  report  that  the  work  in  New  Zealand  is  progressing  in  a 
satisfactory  manner.    In  relation  to  the  elders  and  sisters  who  are 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  TAYLOR     *  133 


laboring  there,  Brother  Young  has  relieved  me  of  ten  minutes  of  my 
time  by  describing  the  elders  and  sisters  of  that  mission.  You  who 
have  boys  or  girls  there  have  ocassion  to  be  proud  of  them.  Of  all 
the  things  that  have  been  spoken  during  this  conference,  my  mind 
has  been  most  impressed  with  the  rem'arks  of  President  Grant,  made 
at  the  opening  of  this  conference,  wherein  he  urged  upon  the  Later- 
day  Saints  the  necessity  of  family  and  secret  prayers.  I  would  call 
to  your  attention  the  fact  that  it  was  the  prayer  offered  by  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith  which  opened  this  dispensation  of  the  gospel,  which 
brought  again  to  the  world  the  knowledge  which  they  had  lost,  a  knowl- 
edge of  God  our  eternal  Father  and  of  his  son  Jesus  Christ,  that 
they  are  living,  immortal  beings.  And  it  was  the  prayers  of  that  same 
boy,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  which  gave  unto  us  the  revelations 
which  are  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  You  will  find, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  studying  these  various  revelations,  that  they 
were  invariably  given  in  answer  to  prayer. 

Your  boys  and  girls  who  are  laboring  in  the  missionary  fields 
are  receiving  knowlege  that  they  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  God ;  they  know  that  the  leaders  of  this  Church  are  inspired  men, 
called  of  God  to  perform  the  labors  of  leading  this'  people  and  teach- 
ing them  the  principles  of  eternal  life. 

I  have  been  somewhat  surprised,  during  my  experience  in  that 
land,  to  find  that  quite  a  number  of  our  boys  have  never  been  in 
the  habit  of  attending  meetings ;  so  much  have  they  neglected  the 
opportunities  that  have  been  offered  them  that  they  have  never  heard 
an  apostle,  or  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  deliver  a  sermon. 
Have  any  of  you  sons  and  daughters  in  this  condition?  Tt  is  doubt- 
less true  that  many  of  you  are  living  in  remote  villages,  but  question 
yourselves'  have  yon  sons  and  daughters  who  have  never  heard  one 
of  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  raise  his  voice  and  address 
the  Latter-day  Saints?  If  so,  you  are  neglecting  your  opportunities; 
you  are  depriving  your  sons  and  your  daughters  of  blessings  that  of 
right  belong  to  them. 

During  my  labors  in  that  land,  I  had  the  extreme  pleasure  of 
welcoming  to  the  mission  the  first  of  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  to  visit  that  mission.  The  work  of  the  Lord  has  been  carried 
on  there  for  some  sixty-two  years,  and  the  Saints  had  prayed  times 
without  number  that  one  or  more  of  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  might  be  sent,  that  they  might  have  the  pleasure  and  privilege 
of  hearing  their  testimony,  and  we  certainly  rejoiced  in  the  blessings 
that  were  brought  to  us  when  Elder  David  O.  McKay  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  and  President  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  paid  a  visit  to  that 
land.  During  the  conference  we  have  heard  a  number  of  references 
to  certain  inspired  meetings  that  have  been  held  in  different  parts 
of  the  earth.  I  can  testify  to  you  that  during  the  visit  of  Elder  McKay 
and  President  Cannon  we  had  one  of  those  inspired  meetings.  Those 
who  had  the  privilege  of  attending  that  meeting  will  never  forget  the 


134  *     CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


spirit  which  was  poured  out  and  the  testimonies  which  were  offered  at 
that  time. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  labor  of  the  ministry.  I  know  that  I  am 
engaged  in  the  work  of  God,  that  th;s  Church  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that'  only  throng*  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel,  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  we  can  hope  for  an 
entrance  into  and  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  testify 
of  these  things,  for  I  know  that  they  are  true.  I  testify  that  God 
has  heard  and  answered  my  prayers  and  the  prayers  of  the  elders 
laboring  in  the  New  Zealand  mission,  and  I  testify  unto  you  that  if 
you  will  seek  him  in  earnestness  and  in  faith,  he  will  answer  unto 
you  the  desires  of  your  hearts. 

May  we  earnestly  seek  him  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Chiist.  Amen. 


ELDER  CARL  E.  PETERSON 

{Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission) 

It  is  now  four  years  and  a  half  since  I  had  the  privilege  of  attend- 
ing our  general  conference,  and  it  is  over  four  years  since  I  left 
for  my  mission  to  preside  over  the  Scandinavian  mission.  Norway 
and  Denmark,  four  years  ago,  were  called  the  Scandinavian  mission. 
In  1920,  it  was  decided  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  make 
two  missions  out  of  the  Scandinavian  mission,  naming  one  the  Nor- 
wegian and  the  other  the  Danish  mission.  Copenhagen  has  always 
been  the  headquarters  for  the  Scandinavian  mission  from  the  very 
first  time,  seventy  years  ago,  when  Apostle  Erastns  Snow  came  to 
Copenhagen  to  open  the  gospel  door  to  the  Scandinavian  people. 
From  that  time,  until  the  mission  was  divided,  Copenhagen  has 
been  the  headquarters,  and  in  one  sense  we  may  call  it  yet  the  head- 
quarters, as  far  as  Norway  and  Denmark  are  concerned,  because  the 
publications  of  the  Church  are  still  published  in  the  Danish  language, 
and  both  Norway  and  Denmark  are  supplied  with  the  literature  of 
the  Church  from  Copenhagen,  with  the  exception  of  a  semi-monthly 
paper  called  Morgenstjernen  which  was  published  in  Norway  since 
it  became  an  independent  mission.  However,  in  the  first  place,  it 
was  decided  that  the  Scandinavian  Star  should  be  the  periodical  for  the 
two  missions,  but  for  some  reason  permission  was  given  to  the  Nor- 
wegian people  to  publish  their  own  Star,  in  Christiania.  Other- 
wise, Copenhagen  is  supplying  the  mission  with  all  the  other  books. 

We  had  a  wonderful  time,  a  glorious  time,  a  time  of  rejoicing 
over  in  those  countries.  This  is  not.  my  first  experience  in  Norway, 
Sweden,  and  Denmark;  because  I  have  spent  over  thirteen  years  as 
a  missionary  in  those  countries,  and  hence,  I  am  well  acquainted  with 
the  conditions  of  the  people,  and  their  characteristics.  The  Scan- 
dinavian people  are  highly  educated.    They  are  progressive,  indepen- 


ELDER  CARL  E.  PETERSON 


135 


dent,  and  intellectual ;  they  have  the  best  school  system  that  can  be 
found  in  the  world  ;  in  fact,  Denmark  stands  right  at  the  top  of  the 
ladder  as  far  as  education  is  concerned.  And  I  say  to  you  that  yon 
cannot  go  from  one  end  of  Denmark  to  the  other  and  find  a  normal 
boy  or  girl,  eight  years  old.  who  cannot  read  and  write.  I  say  this 
because  I  know  it  is  a  fact. 

We  have  enjoyed  freedom  and  liberty  to  preach  the  gospel  in 
Denmark  as  you  have  right  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  We 
are  not  ridiculed.  We  are  respected  wherever  we  go.  If  you  appear 
as  respectable  men  and  women,  you  will  be  respected  and  honored, 
and  in  particular  by  what  is  termed  the  better  class  of  people.  The  most 
highly  educated  people  are  the  most  tolerant.  With  them  you  can  have 
interesting  conversations,  even  from  the  king  on  his  throne.  He  is 
willing  to  listen  to  you  if  you  get  the  privilege  of  visiting  him.  It 
may  be  connected  with  a  great  deal  of  difficulty  and  peliminaries  on 
the  part  of  the  American  minister  before  you  get  the  privilege,  but 
if  you  get  it,  you  will  be  received  by  him  and  he  will  enter  into  conver- 
sation with  you  relative  to  the  religious,  the  social,  and  economic  con- 
ditions prevailing  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  He  will  go 
into  details  as  to  the  resources  of  our  glorious  state.  He  seems  to  be 
familiar  with  conditions  existing  here.  And  he  will  carry  on  an  in- 
teresting conversation,  whether  you  desire  to  speak  to  him  in  Danish, 
French,  German,  or  Italian  or  in  the  English  language.  He  speaks 
perfectly  the  English  language.  So  you  do  not  need  to  be  afraid  if 
you  go  over  there,  some  of  you,  perhaps  thinking  that  you  are 
scholars — you  need  not  be  afraid  to  employ  the  most  complicated 
sentences  and  phrases  that  you  may  desire  to  employ  in  your  conver- 
sation, indicating  to  him  that  you  are  highly  educated  and  capable, 
because  he  will  understand  every  phrase  and  word  that  you  can  utter 
to  him  in  the  English  language  and  will  reply  to  you  in  just  as 
beautiful  and  perfect  English  as  if  he  had  resided  in  the  United  States 
all  his  life.  And  we  find  the  same  characteristic  all  through 
the  whole  country  of  Denmark.  The  people  are  highly  educated, 
they  are  tolerant,  they  are  willing  to  listen  to  you  if  you  have  anything 
to  give  them.  They  care  not  wdiether  you  represent  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  or  any  otber  church;  they  will 
listen  to  you  just  as  well  because  you  are  a  "Mormon,"  as  we  are 
called,  as  if  you  were  a  member  of  any  other  church ;  it  makes  no 
difference. 

The  question  with  the  Danish  people  is  this :  Has  this  person  who 
introduces  himself  as  a  special  representative  of  a  church  or  of  a 
nation  anything  in  particular  to  impart  to  us  that  we  are  not  familiar 
with?  If  he  has  something  new,  something  interesting,  something 
educational,  something  poetical,  something  elevating  the  Danish 
people  will  listen  to  it  with  the  greatest  attention,  and  you  will  never 
be  disturbed  in  any  town  or  village,  but  you  will  be  protected.  In 
fact,  the  highest  authorities  asked  me  the  question  whether  we  ever 


136 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


had  any  trouble.  I  said,  "No,  never."  "But,"  said  they,  "  if  trouble 
ever  should  occur,  let  us  know  and  we  will  send  you  all  the  necessary 
protection  you  desire;  because  you  have  just  as  much  right  and 
privilege  to  proclaim  the  doctrines  that  you  believe  to  be  correci 
as  any  other  church  or  denomination." 

O,  there  is  so  much  to  say  regarding  the  Danish  people !  And  I 
speak  this  because  I  am  not  Danish.  If  I  were,  you  would  say  that 
I  was  egotistic,  but  because  I  am  not,  I  speak  without  restraint;  be- 
cause I  have  found  the  Danish  people,  from  the  king  on  the  throne  to 
the  most  humble,  to  be  endowed  with  these  beautiful,  admirable 
characteristics.  And  I  say  it  to  you  who  have  ambitions  to  go  to 
Denmark  as  representatives  of  the  Church,  and  ask  you  the  prepare 
yourselves,  because  you  will  go  to  a  people  who  are  highly  educated 
and  expect  something  from  you  when  you  come  to  them ;  and  if  you 
desire  pleasure  and  satisfaction  and  joy  in  the  ministry  in  Denmark, 
you  must  prepare  yourself ;  for  the  time  has  come  when  the  Danish 
people  will  never  listen  any  more  to  illiteracy  or  ignorance.  I  say  this 
to  you  from  practical  observation  and  experience.  Whenever  we 
have  capable  elders,  people  flock  in  great  numbers  to  listen 
to  them,  and  on  the  other  hand  when  we  are  not  favored  with  such 
representatives,  the  meetings  are  very  small,  and  very  few  come,  and 
they  come  only  as  a  matter  of  duty.  Hence,  I  say  to  you,  "Let  us 
prepare  ourselves  for  the  great  work  that  lies  before  us,  because  the 
world  is  growing  along  intellectual  lines  and  there  are  better  people 
living  today,  yes,  more  intellectual  people  living  in  the  world  today, 
than  ever  before.  There  are  more  choice  spirits  coming  to  the  world 
today  than  ever  in  the  past,  and  there  will  be  still  more  as  the  millen- 
nial dawn  draws  near  at  hand,  because  they  will  come  here  to  enjoy  the 
privileges  of  taking  upon  themselves  bodies  to  be  prepared  for  the 
great  blessings  in  store  for  those  who  are  permitted  to  enter  into 
the  glorious  millennial  reign  of  Jesus  Christ  when  he  shall  come. 

Well,  I  must  close.  God  bless  you.  I  thank  you  for  your  atten- 
tion. I  rejoice  in  having  this  privilege  of  attending  this  most  en- 
thusiastic and  interesting  conference.  God's  Spirit  has  been  poured 
out  upon  all  the  congregations  that  I  have  attended  during  this  con- 
ference. I  pray  God's  blessing  upon  President  Grant,  upon  all  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  and  the  Latter-day  Saints,  at  home  and 
abroad,  that  the  day  may  speedily  come  when  righteousness  shall  pre- 
vail upon  the  earth  and  truth  shall  be  acknowleged  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  the  other,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

( Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

The  afternoon  has  been  well  spent.  We  have  heard  from  the 
previous  speakers  much  that  has  been  very  profitable  and  it  is  not 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


137 


my  intention  to  keep  this  congregation  more  than  a  few  minutes. 
Were  I  to  give  way  to  my  feelings,  I  would  rather  not  speak,  but 
as  President  Grant  has  sent  over  six  of  us  to  address  you  this  after- 
noon, I  feel  that  I  should  not  be  doing  my  duty  unless  I  spoke  to 

y°u-  i   ':     1 1 H  .Ml 

This  conference  has  been  one  that  will  be  long  remembered. 
We  have  been  fed  with  the  bread  of  life.  We  have  received  the  word 
of  God  from  those  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  after  the  order  of  his 
Son,  and  they  have  given  us  instructions  concerning  our  spiritual 
upbuilding"  and  comfort,  and  concerning  our  temporal  affairs.  The 
scriptures  have  been  opened  to  us;  the  experiences  in  the  lives  of  our 
brethren  have  been  given  to  us  with  profit  and  benefit,  and  I  hope 
when  we  go  home  we  shall  do  so  determined  to  put  into  practice 
these  instructions  and  take  to  our  families  the  spirit  of  this  great 
conference.  Let  me  suggest  that  around  our  home  fires  in  the  even- 
ing, we  tell  our  sons  and  daughters  and  others,  our  impressions  of  the 
conference,  reciting  the  instructions  and  advice  that  we  have  received. 
It  is  very  necessary  that  this  be  done,  as  not  more  than  one  out  of  every 
forty  Latter-day  Saints  have  heard  the  speakers  during  this  conference. 

"Mormonism"  is  to  me  a  modern  marvel;  and  how  did  it  come? 
It  came  from  that  overwhelming  idea  of  the  boy  prophet,  Joseph, 
to  go  into  the  woods  and  ask  his  Father,  in  faith  believing,  which 
church  should  he  join,  and  in  that  simple  prayer  of  a  boy,  and  the 
visit  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  who  came  in  answer  to  that  prayer,  has 
brought  about  this  wonderful  work  of  which  we  are  a  part.  The 
Lord  chose  to  take  an  unlettered  boy  unlearned  and  unsophisticated 
in  the  things  of,  the  world,  but  with  a  simple  child-like  faith 
to  start  his  great  work,  and  on  that  boy's  prayer  began  the  whole 
structure  of  "Mormonism." 

There  is  something  unique  about  this  great  work.  It  was  not  split 
off  from  any  sect  or  party  like  nearly  all  the  sects  of  the  day  have  been, 
but  it  came  direct  from  our  Father  in  heaven  when  the  set  time  had  come 
to  establish  his  great  work  in  the  latter  days,  and  the  message  of  the  gos- 
pel appealed  to  the  honest  in  heart ;  to  those  who  were  sweet  in  their  lives 
and  habits.  Wherever  the  gosple  went,  they  picked  up  these  rugged, 
frugal,  honest,  God-fearing  people,  and  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  they  accepted  the  gospel  and  upon  them  came  the  spirit 
of  gathering.  This  gathering  came  to  them  as  a  part  of  the  power 
and  gift  of  this  great  work,  and  will  come  upon  all  those  who  accept 
the  gospel  in  foreign  lands. 

•Another  part  of  this  great  miracle  of  "Mormonism"  is  to  be 
seen  right  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  where  men  and 
women  who  previously  held  all  shades  of  theories  and  ideas  concerning 
religious  matters,  and  many  of  them  rooted  deeply  in  the  traditions 
of  the  world,  on  hearing  the  sound  of  the  gospel,  their  minds  were 
clarified ;  they  understood  its  principles ;  they  come  here  and  mingle 
with  one  another  until  there  has  been  welded  here  a  solid  body  of 


138 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


people  with  the  highest  ideas  of  spirituality  and  religion  that  the  world 
has  yet  seen. 

We  should  be  thankful  that  we  have  been  permitted  to  come  on 
the  earth  in  this  dispensation,  when  this  wonderful  gospel,  with  all 
its  gifts  and  powers  and  blessings,  has  been  restored,  and  we  have 
been  permitted  to  partake  of  these  blessings.  Mighty  men  and  pro- 
phets of  old,  men  who  have  headed  dispensations  and  whose  works 
are  partly  recorded  in  the  Scriptures,  have  longed  for  this  time;  and 
some  have  desired  to  live  in  this  dispensation,  when  the  Lord  intended 
to  gather  together  the  works  of  all  dispensations  and  establish  his 
Church,  never  more  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people. 

Let  me  ask  you,  as  a  bishop,  to  go  home  with  determination  to 
observe  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy  before  the  Lord ;  to  pay 
your  tithes  and  offerings  in  the  time  and  the  season  thereof;  to  sit 
down  alone  with  your  conscience  once  a  month  and  see  what  the  Lord 
has  given  you,  and  tithe  it  there  and  then.  Remember  your  sacrament 
meetings,  and  renew  your  determination  to  be  at  the  table  of  the 
Lord  to  partake  of  the  emblems  of  his  body  and  blood  in  remembrance 
of  his  sufferings,  and  renew  your  covenants  with  him.  Nothing 
should  interfere  with  this  duty  and  privilege,  for  it  is  a  privilege 
of  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  be  present  at  the  Lord's  table  to  partake 
of  the  sacrament  and  remember  of  his  death  and  suffering's. 

Let  us  continue  that  friendly,  neighborly,  helpful  cooperation  among 
the  communities  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Let  us  build  up  business 
on  cooperative  principles  of  mutual  helpfulness  and  ownership.  Let 
us  get  rid  of  some  of  our  envy  and  pride  and  let  us  also  get  rid  of 
the  habit  of  spending  in  excess  of  our  earnings.  Let  us  avoid  spec- 
ulation, and  if  we  have  spare  means  to  invest,  let  it  be  done  in  well 
established  and  well  developed  businesses  and  institutions.  Let  us 
free  ourselves  from  the  bondage  of  debt.  The  Lord  never  intended 
his  people  to  be  in  bondage  to  any  community  or  to  any  person.  We 
can  only  keep  out  of  bondage  by  keeping  out  of  debt. 

In  the  very  nature  of  things  we  may  expect  panics.  We  may 
expect  hard  times.  The  chastening  hand  of  the  Lord  will  be  felt 
throughout  the  world,  but  the  man  who  is  out  of  debt,  who  owns  his 
home,  who  owns  the  land  he  cultivates,  who  is  not  borrowing,  will  not  be 
seriously  affected  by  panics. 

Above  all,  let  us  train  our  young  people,  around  the  family  table, 
in  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  the  obligation  we  owe  to  the  Lord 
and  to  one  another  as  Latter-day  Saints,  remembering  our  secret 
prayers,  as  well  as  our  family  prayers  night  and  morning,  for,  after 
all,  it  rests  upon  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  children  of  Zion 
to  train  them  in  the  fear  and  admonition  of  the  Lord. 

Sometimes  I  think  the  world  is  ripening  for  destruction,  but  I 
do  hope  and  pray  the  Lord  will  stay  the  avenging  angels  until  the 
honest  in  heart  throughout  the  world,  particularly  the  House  of 
Israel,  have  heard  the  gospel  and  have  had  the  opportunity  of  gathering 
to  Zion. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


139 


May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  his  spirit  be  with  us.  May  this 
conference  be  one  long  to  be  remembered,  for  its  deep  spirituality 
and  the  influences  that  have  come  through  associations  with  one 
another,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Christ  our  Passover,"  solo  by  Miss  Ellis  Timpson, 
was  sung  by  the  choir.  Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Willard  C. 
Burton,  of  the  Granite  stake  of  Zion. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

The  final  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Sunday  afternoon,  October  7,  1923,  at  2  o'clock.  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Prayer  and  Praise." 

Invocation  by  Elder  Nephi  L.  Morris,  of  the  Salt  Lake  stake  of 
Zion. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  Pilgrim's  Chorus." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

My  Brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  my  dependence  upon  the  Lord,  as 
I  stand  before  this  vast  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have 
thought,  since  the  beginning  of  the  conference,  that  if  answer  were 
needed  to  the  world,  the  people  of  the  world  who  do  not  understand, 
justifying  the  faith  and  works  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  these  great 
assemblies  of  people,  which  have  come  together  on  this  occasion  would 
be  sufficient. 

"if  this  be  the  work  of  men." 

Soon  after  the  death  and  resurrection  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  when  he  had  commissioned  his  disciples  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  all  creatures,  and  their  ministry  had  fairly  commenced,  they  were 
taken  on  one  occasion  and  cast  into  prison.  Then  people  came  to 
the  Jewish  high  priests  and  said  to  them  :  These  men  whom  we  cast 
into  prison  are  preaching  among  the  people,  they  are  healing  the  sick 
and  causing  the  blind  of  see,  and  working  great  miracles.  So  the 
disciples  were  cited  to  appear  before  their  accusers  and  they  took 
counsel  that  they  might  kill  them.  Then  we  are  told  here  in  Acts 
that, 

"There  stood  up  cue  in  the  council,  a  Pharisee,  named  Gamaliel,  a  doctor  of 
law,  had  in  reputation  among  all  the  people,  and  commanded  to  put  the  apostles 
forth  a  little  space ; 

"And  said  unto  them,  Ye  men  of  Tsrael,  take  heed  to  yourselves  what  ye 
intend  to  do  as  touching  these  men. 

"For  before  these  days  rose  up  Theudas,  boasting  himself  to  be  somebody; 
to  whom  a  number  of  men,  about  four  hundred,  joined  themselves;  who  was 
slain;  and  all,  as  many  as  obeyed  him,  were  scattered  and  brought  to  naught. 


140 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


"After  this  man  rose  up  Judas  of  Galilee  in  the  days  of  the  taxing,  and 
drew  away  much  people  after  him ;  he  also  perished ;  and  all,  even  as  many  as 
obeyed  him,  were  dispersed. 

"And  now  I  say  unto  you,  Refrain  from  these  men,  and  let  them  alone;  for 
if  this  counsel  or  this  work  be  of  men,  it  will  came  to  naught : 

"But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow  it." 

WHY  THE  SPEAKER  THOUGHT  OF  THIS  QUOTATION. 

I  have  thought  of  that  scripture,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during 
the  proceedings  of  this  conference,  and  particularly  so  because  of  two 
clippings  which  I  hold  in  my  hand,  taken  from  recent  publications,  one 
of  them  from  a  journal  which  is  published  by  one  of  our  most  im- 
portant religious  denominations ;  the  other,  from  a  daily  newspaper. 
From  the  first  of  these  clippings  I  read  as  follows : 

OPPOSING  THE  CHURCH 

"Only  those  who  have  had  occasion  to  live  for  a  time  in  a  part  of  the  country 
entirely  dominated  by  'Mormons'  are  able  to  estimate,  with  any  degree  of  ac- 
curacy, the  strength  and  danger  of  'Mormon'  influence  in  our  Western  states. 
Never  have  I  heard  Christ  preached,  or  the  necessity  of  a  personal  Savior.  Never 
do  I  hear  of  missionaries  going  out  to  convert  people  to  Christ.  They  talk  only 
of  converting  them  to  'Mormonism.'  In  Sunday  schools  and  Church  schools 
emphasis  is  placed  upon  the  Book  of  Mormon  rather  than  upon  the  Bible, 
and  in  one  text  they  are  explicitely  told  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  higher 
authority  than  the  Bible." 

WHY  MAKE  RESPONSE? 

In  the  clipping  from  the  daily  paper,  if  it  is  correct — and  I  have 
no<  doubt  that  it  is — a  man  professing  to  be  a  teacher  of  righteousness, 
in  a,  public  address  recently  delivered,  referring  particularly  to  the  pro- 
ceedings at  the  memorial  services  recently  held  at  the  Hill  Cumorah, 
declared  that  the  "Mormon"  Church  was  the  most  ignorant  church  in 
the  world,  and  that  the  proceedings,  upon  this  occasion,  when  the  one- 
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  appearance  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to 
Joseph  Smith  was  commemorated,  were  all  rot,  rot,  rot.  When  I 
read  it  I  thought  of  this  scripture  which  I  have  read  from  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles.  To  this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  I  suppose 
it  would  appear  unnecessary — in  fact  I  have  heard'  the  word  ridiculous 
used — that  attention  be  paid  to  such  statements  as  these  which  I  have 
just  quoted,  and  in  fact  that  is  true,  but  it  nevertheless  does  at  times 
become  necessary  for  the  Church  to  make  response  to  statements  of 
this  kind,  for  there  are  people,  many  of  them  good  people,  people  who 
love  the  truth  and  desire  it,  who  are  misled  and  strongly  prejudiced 
because  of  statements  such  as  this  that  I  have  quoted  being  made  by 
men  in  whom  they  have  confidence.  If  those  charges  were  true,  if  it 
were  true  that  the  Church  taught  doctrines  which  led  men  and  women 
away  from  Christ,  rather  than  to  him,  if  it  were  true  that  the  Church 
encouraged  or  in  any  degree  endeavored  to  keep  its  members  in  a 
condition  of  ignorance,  in  this  age  of  enlightenment  and  intelligence 
in  which  we  live,  these  criticisms  would  be  justified. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


141 


DOCTRINES  BEST  EVIDENCE 

But  if  on  the  other  hand,  they  are  not  true,  if  they  are  not  founded 
upon  facts,  persons  making  them  assume  very  grave  responsibility, 
for  they  either  discuss  questions  upon  which  they  are  not  informed, 
and  in  regard  to  which  they  are  ignorant  and  thus  convey  improper 
impressions,  or  else  they  wilfully  misrepresent  the  truth  in  order  that 
they  may  prejudice  their  hearers.  The  doctrines  of  the  Church  are 
the  best  evidence  of  what  the  Church  teaches.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
itself  is  the  best  evidence  of  what  it  is.  The  opinions  of  men  may 
differ  in  regard  to  it,  but  when  we  take  the  book  itself,  when  we  care- 
fully study  it,  when  we  understand  its  contents,  we  there  find  the 
evidence  of  its  worth,  or  otherwise.  I  know  that  abstract  statements, 
either  mine  in,  favor  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  or  yours  in  opposition 
to  it,  would  not  be  sufficient  to  convince  thoughtful  minds,  people  who 
desire  to  know  the  truth  of  its  contents,  hence,  we  go  to  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon itself.  I  wonder,  and  I  have  often  asked  myself  the  question,  why 
people  professing  to  be  followers  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  people 
whose  mission  is  to  bring  others  to  faith  in  the  divinity  of  his  mission, 
to  convert  the  world  to  the  great  truth  that  he  is  its  Redeemer,  I  have 
wondered  why  men  who  place  so  much  stress  upon  this  should  object 
when  other  testimony  comes,  when  other  corroborating  evidence  is 
produced  which  justifies  their  attitude  and  confirms  the  very  thing 
that  they  are  teaching;  and  yet  that  condition  has  always  existed. 

Elder  Roberts  declared  to  us  this  morning,  better  than  I  can  say  it, 
the  importance  of  this  scriptural  record,  particularly  to  the  people 
of  these  United  States.  It  is  important  also,  to  the  people  of  the  world, 
for  it  is  given  to  the  world.  It  is  of  special  importance  to  the 
scattered  remnants  of  the  house  of  Israel.  It  is  of  special  importance 
to  the  Jew,  for  it  comes  as  a  message  to  him  as  well ;  and  the  whole 
burden  of  the  message  which  it  brings  is  that  great  truth  that  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  born  of  the  virgin  Man,',  crucified  upon  Calvary,  and 
risen  from  the  dead,  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  The  title  page  of 
the  book  itself,  if  you  will  turn  to  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  estab- 
lishes this  fact.  This  title  page,  by  the  way,  was  not  written  by  Joseph 
Smith,  it  was  inscribed  upon  the  plates  and  translated  by  him  as  he 
found  it.  and  it  gives  evidence  to  the  world  of  the  purpose  in  its 
preservation.  "It  is  an  abridgment  of  the  record  of  the  people  of 
Nephi,  and  also  of  the  Lamanifes. — Written  to  the  Lamanites,  who  are 
a  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel ;  and  also  to  Tew  and  Gentile. 

.An  Abridgment  taken  from  the  Book  of  Ether  also,  which 
is  a  record  of  the  people  of  Tared,  who  were  scattered  at  the  time  the 
Lord  confounded  the  language  of  the  people,  when  they  were  building 
a  tower  to  get  to  heaven."  The  special  purpose  in  the  preservation 
of  the  plates,  and  the  bringing  forth  of  the  record  in  this  dispensation 
is  declared  to  be:  "To  the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  eternal  God,  manifesting  himself  unto  all 
nations."    That  is  the  purpose  of  it. 


142 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


TESTIMONY  FROM  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

At  a  time  long  ago,  when  the  truth  was  brought  into  question, 
the  Prophet  Isaiah  said :  "To  the  law  and  to  the  testimony :  if  they 
speak  not  according  to  this  word,  it  is  because  there  is  no  light  in  them." 
In  the  mouths  of  two  or  three  witnesses  shall  the  truth  be  established. 
So  I  am  just  going  to  turn  and  read  here,  first  from  the  Hook  of 
Mosiah,  the  testimony  which  is  borne  in  that  book  upon  this  important 
question : 

"For  behold,  the  time  cometh,  and  is  not  far  distant,  that  with  power,  the 
Lord  Omnipotent  who  reigneth,  who  was,  and  is  from  all  eternity,  to  all  eternity, 
shall  come  down  frcm  heaven  anions  the  children  of  men,  and  shall  dwell  in  a 
tabernacle  of  clay,  and  shall  go  forth  amongst  men,  working  mighty  miracles, 
such  as  healing  the  sick,  raising  the  dead,  causing  the  lame  to  walk,  the  blind  to 
receive  their  sight.    *    *  * 

"And  also  his  blood  atoneth  for  the  sins  of  those  who  have  fallen  by  the 
transgression  of  Adam,  who  have  died  not  knowing  the  will  of  God  concerning 
them,  or  who  have  ignorantly  sinned.    *    *  * 

"And  moreover,  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  shall  lie  no  other  name  given  nor 
any  other  way  nor  means  whereby  salvation  can  come  unto  the  children  of  men, 
only  in  and  through  the  name  of  Christ,  the  Lord  Omnipotent." 

And  yet  intelligent  men.  through  the  publications  which  they  send 
out  to  the  world,  declare  that  they  have  never  heard  Christ  taught  as 
a  personal  Redeemer  by  the  "Mormon"  people. 

ANOTHER  WITNESS 

These  words  of  Mosiah  were  uttered  one  hundred  twenty-five 
years  before  Christ,  before  his  birth  into  the  world.  Again  another 
witness  :  A  great  concourse  of  people  were  garnered  together  upon 
this  continent,  discussing  the  words  of  the  prophets  who  had  declared 
that  Christ,  after  his  crucifixion  at  Jerusalem,  should  appear  here, 
when  they  heard  a  voice  as  though  it  came  from  heaven  declare  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father.  Casting  their  eyes  up  towards  heaven, 
they  tell  us  that  they  saw  a  man  descending  and  that  he  was  clothed 
in  a  white  robe.  He  came  down,  stood  in  their  midst,  stretched  forth 
his  hand,  and  said : 

"Behold.  T  am  Jesus  Christ  whom  the  prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world.  Behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world,  and  1  have  drunk  out  of 
that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath  given  me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father 
in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world." 

Evidence  again  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  and 
his  teachings  in  this  book. 

Now  turn  over  again,  long  after  his  death,  four-hundred  years 
had  elapsed,  when  Mormon,  writing  here  in  the  book  which  bears 
his  name,  gives  this  witness  :  "  And  these  things  doth  the  Spirit  mani- 
fest unto  me;  therefore  I  write  them  unto  you  all." — addressed  to  us, 
the  people  who  live  here  in  the  time  when  this  record  was  to  come 
forth  : 

"And  for  t His  cause  I  write  unto  you,  that  ye  may  know  that  ye  must  all 
stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of  Christ,  yea,  every  soul  who  belongs  to  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


143 


whole  human  family  of  Adam ;  and  ye  must  stand  to  be  judged  of  your  works, 
whether  they  be  good  or  evil ;  , 

"And  also  that  ye  may  believe  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  ye  shall  have 
among  you;  and  also  that  the  Jews,  the  covenant  people  of  the  Lord,  shall  have 
other  witness  besides  him  whom  they  saw  and  heard,  that  Jesus,  whom  they  slew, 
was  the  very  Christ  and  the  very  God. 

"And  I  would  that  I  could  persuade  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth  to  repent  and 
prepare  to  stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of  Christ." 

"The  Lord  hath  commanded  me,   yea,   even  Jesus  Christ." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  might  open  this  book  at  almost  any 
chapter,  almost  any  page,  and  read  to  you  there  the  testimony  of 
one  prophet  after  another,  from  the  time  that  Lehi  left  Jerusalem, 
six  hundred  years  before  Christ,  until  four  hundred  years  after  his 
coming,  in  which  the  whole  burden  of  the  appeal  which  they  made 
to  their  people  and  the  burden  of  the  testimony  that  they  bore,  was  that 
in  the  meridian  of  time  the  Redeemer  should  come,  and  that  through 
him  the  bonds  of  death  would!  be  broken,  and  the  people  of  the  world 
redeemed  from  the  transgression  of  Adam.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing 
that  in  the  face  of  all  of  this,  men  can,  in  some  way,  associate  as 
they  do  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  a  publication  tending  to  lead  people 
away  from  Christ  and  from  Christianity,  despite  its  contents. 

this  is  Christ's  church. 

The  Presiding  Bishop  called  our  attention,  yesterday,  to  the  fact 
that  this  is  Christ's  Church ;  it  bears  his  name.  He  opened,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Father,  this  gospel  dispensation.  This  Church 
was  organized  for  the  purpose  that  the  world  might  know  the  Redeemer 
as  he  is,  and  be  brought  to  repentance,  redemption  and  everlasting 
life,  through  obedience  to  his  gospel.  Tt  seems  to  me  that  this  should 
set  at  rest  the  foolish  statements  made  in  this  publication  to  which  I 
have  referred.  I  want  the  young  men  and  women,  if  they  are  here,  who 
are  not  familiar  with  the  book,  and  I  want  the  members  of  the  Church 
who  are  not  familiar  with  its  contents,  to  know  that  there  is  no  ne- 
cessity for  alarm  because  of  the  unjustifiable  things  that  people  say 
about  the  Church,  for  as  I  said  before,  the  Church  must  be  judged 
by  what  it  is,  not  by  what  people  say  of  it.  Those  words  of  Isaiah, 
uttered  more  than  two  thousand  six  hundred  years  ago,  are  just  as 
applicable  to  us  today  as  they  were  applicable  to  the  people  to  whom 
he  spoke :  "If  they  speak  not  according  to  the  law  and  the  testimony, 
it  is  because  there  is  no  light  in  them." 

AS  TO  IGNORANCE 

Now,  my  brethern  and  sisters,  just  a  word  in  regard  to  the 
statement  made  by  this  pretended  teacher  of  righteousness,  that  the 
"Mormon"  Church  is  the  most  ignorant  church  in  the  world.  I  want 
to  ask  the  people  of  the  world  this  one  question :  Can  they  point 
to  an  instance  in  the  history  of  the  past  where  ignorance  and  achieve- 
ment and  accomplishment  have  gone  hand  in  hand?  I  am  sure  the 
answer  would  be,  No.    People  do  not  advance  in  ignorance.  People 


144 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


do  not  develop  in  ignorance.  So  far  as  I  am  aware,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  first  religious  body  to  declare 
that  "the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  not  ignorance;  the  first  to 
declare  that  "men  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance."  I  do  not  mean 
to  apply  that  to  secular  education,  but  it  is  only  through  the  proper 
development  of  the  intelligence  of  man,  assisted  by  the  gift  of  God, 
our  Father,  that  men  can  come  to  understand  his  great  purposes,  the 
plan  of  human  redemption  which  has  existed  from  the  beginning  of 
time,  and  its  application  to  us,  who  live  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times.  I  have  thought  of  it  as  I  have  looked  at  these 
great  congregations  of  people.  Looking  backward  for  one  hundred 
years,  does  the  accomplishment  of  the  Church  indicate  the  work  of 
an  ignorant  people?  It  is  not  yet  one  hundred  years  since  the  Church 
came  into  existence.  Its  members  at  the  time  of  its  organization,  were 
very  few.  It  was  in  poverty,  but  thank  the  Lord,  not  in  ignorance.  From 
that  small  beginning,  ask  yourself  the  question :  what  has  been  its 
accomplishments?  The  people  of  the  great  congregation  are  here,  and 
they  are  but  a  small  representation  of  the  whole,  coming  into  these 
mountain  valleys,  to  a  place  regarded  as  undesirable  by  all  other 
people,  not  going  to  the  Pacific  Coast  because  of  the  gold  that  was 
there  to  lure  people  on,  not  to  the  great  plains  and  fields  of  Oregon 
where  it  was  evident  that  a  country  existed  which  was  susceptible  of 
a  high  degree  of  agricultural  development,  but  stopping  here  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  the  Church  gathered  in  its  poverty.  It 
gathered  in  from  various  nations,  people  in  poverty,  and  from  this 
spot  reached  out  to  the  north  and  south,  and  the  east  and  west,  until 
towns  and  villages  and  hamlets  sprang  up.  In  every  productive  valley 
of  the  intermountain  country,  has  intellectual  development  kept  pace 
with  the  secular  development  which  has  occurred.  We  only  need 
refer,  and  we  do  so  with  pride,  to  the  educational  status  of  the  State 
of  Utah  today.  There  may  be  states  which  are  slightly  in  advance, 
there  may  be  states  which  have  accomplished  slightly  more,  but  no  other 
people  under  similiar  circumstances  have  developed  a  system  of  education 
equal  to  that  which  has  been  developed  by  the  people  of  these  inter- 
mountain valleys,  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  came  here  in  their 
poverty.  I  say  it  without  fear  of  successful  contradition. 

AS  TO  PATRIOTISM  AND  DEVOTION 

What  does  the  record  of  their  past  history  show,  their  record 
as  devoted  and  patriotic  citizens  of  the  country  in  which  they  live? 
The  great  Mexican  war — we  would  not  regard  it  as  a  great  war  now, 
although  in  a  sense  it  was  at  the  time — came  just  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  moving  in  their  poverty  with  their  families  to  seek  a  home 
here  in  the  west.  When  the  call  came  for  men  they  gave  them  in  the 
service  of  their  country,  a  thing  with  which  we  are  familiar,  but 
which  the  world  knows  very  little  of.  Those  five  hundred  members  of 
the  Mormon  Battalion  accomplished  a  march  which  we  are  told  is 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS  145 


without  precedent  in  the  history  of  the  world,  the  circumstances  under 
which  it  was  accomplished  considered. 

The  war  of  the  Rebellion  came,  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  re- 
mained steadfast  to  the  government,  offered  and  gave  their  services.  The 
war  with  the  Philippines  came,  the  "Mormon"  pepole  did  their  full 
share  in  bearing  the  burdens  of  that  war. 

Then  came  the  great  World  War.  The  government  asked  Utah 
for  seven  hundred  forty-six  men  for  the  United  States  Army.  She 
furnished  two  thousand,  two  hundred  forty-four  men.  The  govern- 
ment asked  for  one  hundred  twenty-six  men  to  go  into  the  marine 
service  and  the  State  furnished  three  hundred  forty-six.  Independent 
of  this,  Utah  furnished  one  battery  of  artillery  composed  of  one 
thousand  five  hundred  men.  The  total  number  of  men  asked  for  was 
eight  hundred  seventy-two  in  all  branches  of  the  service,  and  the  State 
furnished  four  thousand  eight  hundred  thirty-one  men.  The  Red 
Cross  asked  us  for  three  hundred  fifty  thousand  dollars,  and  we  gave 
them  five  hundred  twenty  thousand  dollars.  The  first  Liberty  Loan 
apportioned  us  six  million,  five  hundred  thousand  dollars,  and  we 
took  nine  million,  four  hundred  thousand  dollars  of  that  issue.  The 
second  Liberty  Loan  asked  us  to  take  ten  million  dollars  and  we  took 
sixteen  million,  two  hundred  thousand  dollars.  The  Young  Men's 
Christian  Association  and  other  similar  organizations  asked  us  for 
one  hundred  thousand  dollars,  and  we  gave  them  one  hundred  five 
thousand  dollars.  The  request  was  made  that  we  furnish  seventeen 
million  one  hundred  thousand  dollars,  and  we  gave  twenty-six  million 
two  hundred  ninety-one  thousand  dollars.  The  third  Liberty  Loan 
came  after  this  in  which  an  equal  proportion  was  given.  This  does 
not  include  the  liberal  contributions  made  by  the  auxiliary  associations 
of  the  Church.  It  does  not  include  the  large  amount  of  wheat  which 
had  been  accumulated  by  the  Relief  Societies  of  the  Church,  the  only 
incident  of  such  a  character  that  occurred  in  the  war,  or  could  occur 
in  the  world,  for  there  was  no  other  body  that  had  so  gathered  together 
a  large  quantity  of  wheat  that  could  be  turned  over  in  bulk  in  case 
of  emergency  as  was  done  at  that  time. 

NOT  THE  WORKS  OF  IGNORANCE 

I  quote  these  figures,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  part  of  the 
evidence.  The  evidence,  the  law  and  the  testimony  are  here  to  show 
that  the  works  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  not  been  the  works  of 
ignorant  people.  I  myself  have  gone  into  a  country  where,  for  three 
hundred  years  there  had  existed  what  was  called  a  high  degree  of 
civilization.  I  did  not  see  a  plow  that  was  not  made  of  wood  and 
being  pulled  by  oxen,  with  the  yoke  lashed  to  their  horns.  I  did  not 
see  a  modern  wagon,  but  the  old-fashioned  carts  and  the  old-fashioned 
plows,  with  which  people  plowed  and  bore  their  burdens  in  the  valley 
of  the  Nile,  thousands  of  years  ago.  Twenty  years  after  the  time  that 
eight  small  "Mormon"  colonies  were  established  in  the  north  of  Mexico, 


146 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


they  had  accomplished  more,  looking  to  the  advancement  and  develop- 
ment of  that  people  in  the  introduction  of  modern  methods  of  agri- 
culture, modern  agricultural  machinery,  improved  varieties  of  fruits 
and  grains,  than  had  been  accomplished  before  since  the  day  of  the 
conquest;  evidence  sufficient  of  the  intelligence,  the  integrity,  and  the 
industry  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 
That  has  always  appealed  to  me  as  a  definite  and  certain  law.  Ignorant 
people  do,  not  accomplish  the  work  of  intellectuals,  and  vice  versa. 

So  I  wonder  what  can  be  the  mental  process  by  which  a  man 
reaches  the  conclusion  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  the  most  ignor- 
ant people  in  the  world.  It  is  not  a  new  thing;  it  has  been  going 
on  since  the  beginning  of  time,  since  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
and  I  expect  will  continue  to  go  on  just  the  same;  and  that  is  another 
thing  that  the  Hook  of  Mormon  here  tells  us  will  occur,  and  another  one 
of  the  evidences  of  the  truth  of  this  book;  for  it  seems  to  provide  for 
just  about  every  criticism  that  can  be  made.  Moroni,  the  last  man  to 
write  in  it,  says : 

"The  Lord  hath  commanded  men,  yea,  even  Jesus  Christ. 

"And  I  said  unto  him :  Lord,  the  Gentiles  will  mock  at  these  things,  because 
of  our  weakness  in  writing ;  for.  Lord,  thou  hast  made  us  mighty  in  word  by 
faith,  hut  thou  hast  not  made  us  mighty  in  writing;  for  thou  hast  made  all  this 
people  that  they  could  speak  much,  because  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  thou  hast 
given  them  : 

"And  thou  hast  made  us  that  we  could  write  but  little,  because  of  the 
awkwardness  of  our  hands.    *    *  * 

"And  when  I  had  said  this,  the  Lord  spake  unto  me,  saying:  Fools  mock, 
but  they  shall  mourn;  and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for  the  meek,  that  they  shall 
take  no  advantage  of  your  weakness." 

This  has  been  exemplified  many  times  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

This  book,  as  has  been  testified  before,  is  the  very  embodiment  of 
the  spirit  of  Americanism.  We  hear  a  lot  about  that  in  these  days. 
In  its  simplicity  it  lays  down  those  fundamental  principles  of  democ- 
racy  upon  which  every  republican  form  of  government  must  be  based 
and  founded.  It  teaches  us  that  there  should  be  no  king  to  dictate  upon 
this  land.  It  teaches  us  that  the  will  of  the  people,  the  voice  of 
the  people  shall  govern,  and  that  minorities  should  submit  to  majorities. 
It  teaches  us  also  that  the  time  may  come  when  majorities  will  go 
wrong,  "and  when  that  time  cometh,"  saith  the  Lord,  "then  my  judg- 
ments shall  hang  over  this  people." 

FEET  UPON  SAFE  GROUND 

Now  my  brethren  and  sisters,  where  differences  of  opinion  exist, 
whether  it  be  in  regard  to  our  temporal  affairs  or  whether  it  be 
in  regard  to  spiritual  affairs,  or  faith  in  God,  by  which  we  hope  to 
attain  to  eternal  life  in  his  presence,  there  must  be  some  basic  law  to 
which  we  can  refer  and  from  which  there  can  be  no  further  appeal, 
which  is  the  end  of  controversy ;  otherwise  I  may  assert  and  you  may 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  147 


deny,  and  controversy  would  never  cease.  As  it  applies  to  our  civil 
affairs,  the  temporalities  and  their  control,  that  tribunal  is  the  civil 
law,  the  law  which  we  ourselves  have  made.  As  it  applies  to  God 
and  his  purposes,  the  law  is  his  written  and  spoken  word.  From  it 
there  can  be  no  just  appeal.  So  in  civil  affairs  we  honor  and  respect 
and  uphold  the  civil  law,  and  in  things  which  pertain  to  the  word 
of  the  Lord  we  adhere  to  his  written  word,  as  it  is  contained  here  in  the 
Bible  and  in  the  Rook  of  Mormon.  The  Book  of  Mormon  has  been 
before  the  world  now  for  nearly  one  hundred  years.  No  one  has 
ever  pointed  out  an  error  in  principle  that  is  in  it.  Men  may  ridicule, 
they  may  scoff,  but  that  does  not  constitute  argument,  nor  evidence. 
They  are  the  last  arguments  to  which  the  vanquished  always  resort 
— ridicule,  abuse,  misrepresentation ;  and  I  suppose  they  will  be  applied 
to  us. 

So  I  feel  that  our  feet  are  upon  perfectly  safe  ground,  that  all 
that  has  been  said  in  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Joseph 
Smith,  and  the  bringing  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  is  true.  I 
know  it  to  be  true,  the  opinions  of  men  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 
The  time  will  come  when  men  will  know  it  to  be  true — just  as  the 
last  words  in  the  book  tell  us  that  it  will.  Let  me  read  this  last 
communication  to  conclude  my  remarks.  These  are  the  words  of 
Moroni : 

A  CALL  TO  COME  TO  CHRTST. 

"I  exhort  you  to  remember  these  things  ;  for  the  time  speedily  comcth  that 
ye  shall  know  that  I  lie  not.  for  ye  shall  sec  me  at  the  bar  of  God  ;  and  the  Lord 
will  say  unto  you  :  Did  T  not  declare  my  words  unto  you,  which  were  written 
by  this  man,  like  as  one  crying  from  the  dead,  yea,  even  as  one  speaking  out  of 
the  dust? 

"I  declare  these  things  unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  prophecies.  And  behold, 
they  shall  proceed  forth  out  of  the  mouth  of  the  everlasting  God ;  and  his  word 
shall  hiss  forth  from  generation  to  generation. 

"And  God  shall  show  unto  you,  that  that  which  I  have  written  is  true. 

"And  again  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  come  unto  Christ,  and  lay 
hold  upon  every  good  gift,  and  touch  not  the  evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean  thing.*  * 

"Yea,  come  unto  Christ,  and  be  perfected  in  him,  and  deny  yourselves  of 
all  ungodliness ;  and  if  ye  shall  deny  yourselves  of  all  ungodliness,  and  love 
God  with  all  your  might,  mind  and  strength,  then  is  his  grace  sufficient  for  you, 
that  by  his  grace  ye  may  be  perfect  in  Christ ;  and  if  by  the  grace  of  God  ye  are 
perfect  in  Christ,  ye  can  in  nowise  deny  the  power  of  God. 

"And  again,  if  ye  by  the  grace  of  God  are  perfect  in  Christ,  and  deny  not 
his  power,  then  are  ye  sanctified  in  Christ  by  the  grace  of  God,  through  the 
shedding  of  the  blood  of  Christ,  which  is  in  the  covenant  of  the  Father  unto  the 
remission  of  your  sins,  that  ye  become  holy,  without  spot. 

"And  now  I  bid  unto  all,  farewell.  I  soon  go  to  rest  in  the  paradise  of 
God,  until  my  spirit  and  body  shall  again  reunite,  and  I  am  brought  forth 
triumphant  through  the  air,  to  meet  you  before  the  pleasing  bar  of  the  great 
Jehovah,  the  Eternal  judge  of  both  quick  and  dead.  Amen." 

Solo  by  Louise  Watson,  "The  words  of  our  God  endureth  forever." 


148 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  are  five  members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  that  have 
not  had  the  opportunity  of  speaking  to  us,  and  I  had  the  names  of 
some  of  our  honored  returned  missionaries  who  have  presided  in  some 
of  the  foreign  missions,  on  my  list.  Time  will  not  permit  of  our  breth- 
ren speaking  to  us,  as  I  am  sure  they  would  like  to  do,  but  we  are  going 
to  stay  here — those  of  us  who  are  not  so  hungry  that  we  are  anxious 
to  get  away — until  we  hear  from  these  brethren  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  testimonies  that  have  been  given 
during  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  I  believe  firmly  not  only  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  but  in  the  destiny  of  the  Government  of  the 
United  States.  I  am  impressed  more  and  more  with  the  truth  that 
the  advent  of  the  Government  of  the  United  States  in  1789  wras  the 
great  fore-runner  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  remember  reading  of  the  sinking  of  a  German  submarine  by 
an  American  boat,  in  1918 ;  and  the  sailors  and  soldiers  of  the  German 
government  were  finding  a  watery  grave.  The  American  boat  put 
to  and  ran  up  on  one  of  the  masts  a  signal  with  the  words :  "Wait,  we 
are  coming  to  save  you."  And,  sure  enough,  the  American  sailors,  in 
life-boats,  put  towards  the  spot  where  the  German  submarine  had 
been  hit,  and,  in  a  few  moments,  the  German  sailors  were  placed  in 
the  life-boats  and  brought  safely  to  an  American  boat,  given  food, 
and  were  assured  that  their  lives  would  be  spared.  In  commenting 
on  this  incident,  the  President  of  the  United  States  declared  that  the 
policy  of  the  American  army  and  the  American  navy  should  be  to 
spare  German  lives  wherever  they  could. 

I  have  often  thought  of  that  event  in  our  history,  because  I  believe 
it  is  a  symbol  of  Americanism.  I  know  it  to  be  the  spirit  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.    It  is  the  spirit  of  true  Americanism. 

In  reading  recently  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  I  thought 
of  the  eloquent  words  of  James  Russell  Lowell  when  he  was  at  the 
court  of  France.  Guizot,  the  French  statesman,  said  to  him  :  "How 
long  will  the  Government  of  the  United  States  endure?"  And  the 
reply  of  James  Russell  Lowell  was  :'  "Just  so  long  as  the  ideals  of  the 
founders  of  this  government  endure."  This  incident  has  been  told 
in  the  remarkable  letters  of  the  great  statesman  Guizot,  and  it  is 
something  for  us  to  remember. 

I  believe  that  the  English  speaking  race,  represented  by  Great 
Britain  and  the  United  States,  will  be  the  race  that  will  bring  peace 
lo  the  world.  The  United  States  will  work  hand  in  hand  with  Great 
Britain,  the  nation  that  has  stood  for  freedom  and  liberty — from  the 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


149 


days  of  the  Witenagemot,  or  the  assembly  of  the  wise  men,  of  Alfred 
the  Great,  when  that  great  'king  declared  that  the  laws  of  England 
should  be  based  upon  the  Ten  Commandments.  The  Magna  Charta, 
the  Petition  of  Rights,  the  Bill  of  Rights,  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  .States  and  its  forerunner,  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  all 
are  the  expressions  of  a  liberty-loving  race,  which  is  intuitive.  It  is 
stamped  in  the  very  .soul  of  the  English  speaking  race.  From  time  of 
old  to  the  present,  the  English  people — the  British  and  the  Americans 
— have  stood  for  the  highest  ideals  of  liberty  and  freedom  and  are  stand- 
ing for  them  today. 

Chief  Justice  Marshall  on  one  occasion  declared  that  the  reason 
the  Americans  understand  liberty  and  freedom  is  because  their  laws 
must  be  the  expression  of  the  economical,  social  and  intellectual  ideals 
of  the  people.  When  the  Latter-day  Saints  came  to  these  valleys  the 
very  first  law  was  an  economic  one.  It  created  roads  and  bridges. 
And  another  law  established  the  first  university  west  of  the  Missouri 
river.  It  was  a  law  that  was  an  expression  of  the  intellectual  life 
of  the  people,  and  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  the  words  of  Chief 
Justice  Marshall  have  been  exemplified  in  the  history  of  the  "Mormon" 
people.  Their  laws  have  always  been  just;  they  have  been  expressions 
of  the  lives  of  the  people  who  have  tried  to  live  right,  who  have  aimed 
to  live  justly  and  up  to  the  very  highest  ideals  that  a  God-given 
religion  could  place  in  their  hearts.  I  believe  that  the  "Mormon" 
people,  in  a  sense,  were  the  forerunners  of  that  great  ideal  which 
today  our  nation  stands  upon.  The  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  not  a  league  of  friendship,  but  it  was  a  document  that 
bound  the  states  together  in  one  great  union ;  and  though  it  took  many 
years  to  work  this  idea  out,  and  finally  a  great  civil  war  to  maintain 
it,  it  was  the  ideal  of  Washington,  and  of  Hamilton,  and  Chief  Justice 
Marshall  and  Abraham  Lincoln. 

Following  down  that  early  period  when  the  Church  was  organized 
and  which  grew  in  the  wilderness,  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young, 
Orson  Pratt,  and  the  host  of  other  Americans  who  had  come  from  New 
England  stood  for  that  expression  of  liberty.  The  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  is  the  embodiment  of  the  organic  law  of  the  land,  which 
is  the  highest  expression  of  our  civic  and  political  liberties,  whereby 
we  live  under  government  and  whereby  we  come  to  know  equality  and 
justice. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  stand  for  Americanism  in  the  true  sense 
of  the  term.  A  great  French  economist  declares  that  the  five  institu- 
tions of  civilization  are  the  home,  industry,  the  state,  the  school,  and 
religion  as  expressed  in  the  church. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  this  day  that  our  history  proves,  that  we 
as  Latter-day  Saints  have  not  only  taken  a  stand  firmly  for  the  Consti- 
tution and  the  Declaration  of  Independence  but  have  given  meaning  to 
those  great  documents.  The  pioneer  history  of  this  state  declares  that 
we  stand  for  the  five  institutions  of  civilization,  because  by  them  and 


150 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


through  them  we  may  go  back  to  our  God,  for  one  of  these  institutions 
is  religion,  and  our  religion,  as  we  understand  it,  and  as  we  hold  it 
sacredly  in  our  souls,  comes  in  its  purity,  in  its  dignity,  in  its  power 
from  God  whom  we  worship.  And  so.  we  are  Americans,  and  the 
words  of  Lowell  will  be  true  so  long  as  America  is  Christian;  so 
long  as  we  live  to  the  ideals  of  our  fathers  America  will  live  and  it 
will  be  preserved  forever  and  ever.  The  Abby  Genty,  the  great  French 
lecturer  and  scholar  of  the  time  of  the  French  revolution,  when  he  was 
noticing  the  beauty  and  grandeur  of  the  new  American  government, 
in  contrast  to*  the  government  of  France,  declared  that  the  new  nation 
across  the  Atlantic  would  not  only  be  the  nation  that  will  usher  in  the 
new  political  and  civic  liberty  of  all  the  world,  but  it  will  be  the  nation 
to  re-establish  the  go,spel  of  peace  and  the  laws  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

We  have  been  instructed,  admonished,  and  at  times  thrilled,  by 
the  exceptionally  good  talks  we  have  heard,  even  from  the  beginning 
of  this  conference.  Our  thoughts  have  naturally  turned,  at  this  cen- 
tennial season,  to  the  circumstances  connected  with  the  coming  forth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Those  not  of  us  have  tried  to  account  for  the 
phenomena  of  "Mormonism"  upon  some  theory  other  than  the  true  one, 
just  as  they  attempted  to  explain  away  the  Savior  and  his  works.  The 
argument  against  the  Savior  has  been  briefly  stated  and  answered  thus : 

"Upon  the  theory  that  Christ  was  a  mythical  person,  the  result  of  the 
fancy  and  fairy  stories  of  his  disciples  after  his  death,  then  we  must  con- 
clude that  the  leader  of  the  greatest  movement  for  the  converting,  purifying, 
inspiring  and  uplifting  of  the  race  which  the  world  has  ever  known  is  the 
product  of  myth,  fancy,  overwrought  imagination,  and  pious  disposition.  If 
this  be  true,  then  it  is  also  true  that  error  is  better  than  truth,  and  the 
race  moves  upward  under  the  beneficient  influence  of  falsehood.  But  this 
absurd  and  untrue  theory  which  forces  such  conclusions  must  be  rejected." 

The  same  argument  may  be  applied  to  the  rise  and  growth  of 
so-called  "Mormonism,"  said  by  Professor  George  Trumbull  Ladd,  of 
Yale  University,  to  be  one  of  the  most  remarkable  phenomena  of  the 
Nineteenth  century.  It  has  been  peculiar  in  the  way  it  has  announced 
foundation  principles,  contrary  to  the  belief  held  by  the  world.  Let 
me  illustrate:  Judge  Samuel  Chase,  a  United  States  Circuit  Judge, 
in  passing  the  death  sentence  upon  one  John  Fries,  convicted  for 
treason,  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century,  used  this  admonition, 
which  fairly  expresses  the  Christian  doctrine  as  Veld  at  that  time, 
as  to  repentance  after  death.    Said  Judge  Chase  to  the  prisoner : 

"I  suppose  you  are  a  Christian,  and  as  such  I  address  you.  Be  assured, 
my  guilty  and  unhappy  fellow  citizen,  that  without  serious  repentance  of  all 
your  sins,  you  cannot  expect  happiness  in  the  world  to  come ;  and  to  your 
repentance  you  must  add  faith  and  hope  in  the  merits  and  mediation  of  Jesus 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


151 


Christ.  These  are  the  only  terms  on  which  pardon  and  forgiveness  are  promised 
to  those  who  profess  the  Christian  religion.  Let  me,  therefore,  again  entreat 
you  to  apply  every  moment  you  have  left  in  contrition,  sorrow  and  repentance. 
Your  day  of  life  is  almost  spent  and  the  night  of  death  fast  approaches.  Look 
up  to  the  Father  of  mercies  and  God  of  comfort.  You  have  a  great  and  immense 
work  to  perform  and  but  little  time  in  which  you  must  finish  it.  There  is 
no  repentance  in  the  grave,  for  after  death  comes  judgment,  and  as  you  die 
so  must  you  be  judged.  By  repentance  and  faith  you  are  the  object  of  God's 
mercy;  but,  if  you  will  not  repent  and  have  faith  and  dependence  upon  the 
merits  of  the  death  of  Christ,  but  die  a  hardened  and  impenitent  sinner, 
you  will  be  the  object  of  Gods  justice  and  vengeance.  If  you  will  sincerely 
repent  and  believe  God  has  pronounced  his  forgiveness,  there  is  no  crime 
too  great  for  his  mercy  and  pardon." 

This  expresses  the  supposed  Christian  doctrine  that  "as  the  tree 
falls,  so  must  it  lie."  Judge  Chase  afterwards  became  a  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States.  Enemies  sought  his  downfall, 
and  he  was  impeached  and  tried  before  the  United  States  Senate. 
At  least  two  counts  in  the  indictment  against  him  grew  out  of  the 
trial  of  the  Fries  case;  but  there  was  not  one  word  of  criticism  as  to 
this  sectarian  doctrine  just  quoted.  I  thought  last  evening,  as  we 
listened  to  the  beautiful  compilation  of  our  scriptures  by  Brother 
Widtsoe  and  presented  in  the  oratorio,  what  a  striking  contrast  be- 
tween the  old  dogma  of  no  repentance  after  death  and  our  present 
conception  of  the  Spirit  of  Elijah. 

They  have  sought  to  explain  away  so-called  "Mormonism"  upon 
various  theories.  Years  ago  we  had  to  meet  in  discussion  of  the 
myth  of  the  "Manuscript  Found."  To-day,  we  need  pay  no  attention 
to  that.  For  example,  in  the  late  popular  history  of  the  United  States, 
issued  from  Washington,  D.  C,  in  eleven  volumes  by  the  American 
Educational  League,  with  Doctors  Willey  &  Rines  as  the  learned 
editors,  no  attention  is  given  to  this  old  "Spaulding  romance"  except 
to  consign  it  to  the  rubbish  heap.  As  an  illustration  of  the  futility 
of  the  efforts  of  those  who  fight  the  Church,  it  must  seem  like  the 
irony  of  fate  to  such  men  as  Theodore  Schrceder — a  lawyer  of  this 
city  of  a  score  of  years  ago,  who  spent  much  time  and  money  in 
developing  the  false  theory  that  Sidney  Rigdon  was  the  author  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon, — that  his  writings  should  be  cited  as  authority  for 
the  rejection  of  the  Spaulding  myth  but  his  own  theory  not  so  much  as 
mentioned  by  the  United  States  history  referred  to. 

We  heard  this  afternoon  from  the  article  read  by  President  Ivins 
the  statement  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  place  reliance  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Well,  we  have  learned  that  it  does  throw  light  upon  the 
Hebrew  Scriptures.  ■  For  instance,  in  the  Beatitudes :  "Blessed  are  the 
poor  in  spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  The  Book  of 
Mormon  version  is :  "Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit  who  come  unto  me, 
for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  And  again,  "Blessed  are  they  who 
do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness,  for  they  shall  be  filled." 
The  Book  of  Mormon  adds,  "with  the  Holy  Ghost."    And  so  we 


152 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


might  go  on  with  several  other  examples.  During  the  past  month 
the  Literary  Digest  presented  four  translations  of  the  Beatitudes 
in  parallel  columns.  It  seemed  to  me  that  no  additional  light  or  beauty 
are  thrown  upon  the  earlier  translations ;  and  yet  through  the  Prophet 
joseph  we  have  the  significant  version  I  have  referred  to. 

In  connection  with  what  President  Grant  said,  in  reference  to 
spiritual  manifestations  at  certain  European  conferences,  it  is  easy 
for  me  to  understand  how  that  could  be.  If  I  may  have  a  moment 
more,  I  would  like  to  give  a  personal  testimony  of  coming  into  the 
presence  of  the  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  on  one  occasion  at 
a  quarterly  conference  held  at  Logan.  I  had  just  returned  from  a 
long  itinerary  and  was  as  weary  as  it  has  ever  been  my  experience 
to  be — both  in  body  and  in  mind.  As  a  result  of  the  influence  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  which  was  enjoyed  by  President  Smith  and  his 
audience,  at  the  close  of  that  meeting  I  was  as  free  from  all  sense 
of  weariness  as  I  had  ever  been.  In  a  studied  effort  I  could  not  detect 
the  slightest  indication  of  fatigue  either  in  body  or  mind.  My  time 
is  up.    May  the  Lord  bless  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  look  out  upon  the  faces  of  this 
vast  congregation,  I  am  deeply  impressed  with  the  power  and  the  in- 
fluence that  seems  to  be  felt  by  all  who  are  present.  There  must  be 
something  peculiar  about  the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  whenever  they 
gather  together  there  is  a  power  and  an  influence  that  is  felt  by  all 
who  are  present,  that  is  peculiar  to  us.  I  have  been  led  to  reflect :  what 
is  it  that  is  different  from  the  gatherings  of  those  who  are  not  of 
our  faith  and  the  gatherings  of  a  nature  other  than  these  religious 
conferences?  And  the  answer  has  come  to  me:  It  is  because  the 
great  multitude  of  people  that  congregate,  that  come  together  upon 
these  occasions  are  men  and  women  who  have  faith  in  God  and  have 
repented  of  sin,  who  have  received  a  remission  of  those  sins  in  the 
waters  of  baptism  and  after  that  they  have  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  It  is  then  the  presence  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  animates  these  general  assemblies  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  characterizes  them  as  different  from  all 
other  gatherings  of  people  throughout  the  entire  world;  for  in  no 
other  church  are  there  people  who  have  been  thus  blessed  and  favored 
of  the  Lord,  for  they  have  not  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Among  the  different  things  that  were  contained  in  the  message 
of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  that  notable 
night  of  September  21,  1823,  was  the  reference  to  the  holy  scriptures, 
wherein  it  was  set  forth  that  the  day  was  nigh  at  hand  when  Elijah 
the  Prophet  would  come  and  restore  the  keys  of  the  turning  of  the 


ELDER  RULON  S:  WELLS 


153 


hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  their  children.  When  we  realize  how  completely  this  has  been 
fulfilled,  it  adds  to  the  numerous  testimonies  which  we  have  received 
of  this  great  work  of  the  Lord.  Surely  the  Prophet,  at  that  early 
period  of  his  life,  could  not  have  comprehended  to  any  marked  extent, 
the  great  work  that  was  involved  in  those  words.  Temples  have  been 
erected  and  work  has  been  done  in  those  temples  for  millions  of  peo- 
ple. We  build  these  places  and  we  call  them  holy,  erected  to  the  name 
of  the  Lord  and  dedicated  unto  his  service. 

The  people  who  have  been  blessed  by  receiving  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  are  called  Latter-day  Saints.  What  do  we  mean  by  Saint?  We 
mean  a  sanctified  being,  or  a  holy  being.  Faith  in  God,  repentance 
from  sin,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sin  and  the  re- 
ception of  the  Holy  Ghost  will  make  them  worthy  of  the  name  by 
which  the  Lord  permits  them  to  be  called.  Do  we  have  that  name 
because  we  are  sanctified  beings?  Oh,  no;  but  because  we  have  started 
out  right  and  are  in  the  process  of  sanctifying  ourselves  and  preparing 
ourselves  to  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God.  A  sanctified  being,  a  holy 
being,  is  one  whose  sins  have  been  remitted,  one  who  has  been  made 
holy  by  receiving  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Wherever  the  Lord  plants  his  feet  it  becomes  a  sacred  and  holy 
place.  What  was  it  that  the  Lord  said  to  Moses  at  the  time  of  his 
appearance  in  the  burning  bush:  "Put  off  thy  shoes  from  off  thy 
feet,  for  the  place  whereon  thou  standest  is  holy  ground."  Only 
those  who  are  holy  are  permitted  to  stand  upon  holy  ground.  Strangers 
Who  come  into  our  midst  wonder  why  they  may  not  go  into  the 
temples  that  we  have  erected.  They  marvel  that  the  doors  are  closed 
against  them.  Many  who  have  been  in  our  temples  before  their  dedi- 
cation have  also  wondered  why  they  may  not  continue  to  go  there. 
Strangers  do  not  always  understand  it,  but  this  is  the  reason :  Because 
they  have  not  been  sanctified  by  having  sealed  upon  them  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  This  permission  is  given  only  to  those  who  have 
received  this  marvelous  gift,  and  many  who  have  received  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  unless  they  have  retained 
the  remission  of  their  sins  by  living  right,  are  not  permitted  to  stand 
upon  that  holy  ground.  Who  then  shall  enter  into  the  temple  of  the 
Lord?  I  find  an  answer  to  that  question  in  holy  writ,  where  a  ques- 
tion is  asked  somewhat  similar  in  its  nature: 

"Who  shall  ascend  into  the  hill  of  the  Lord?  or  who  shall  stand 
in  his  holy  place  ? 

"He  that  hath  clean  hands,  and  a  pure  heart ;  who  hath  not  lifted 
up  his  soul  unto  vanity,  nor  sworn  deceitfully. 

"He  shall  receive  a  blessing  from  the  Lord,  and  righteousness 
from  the  God  of  his  salvation." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  becomes  necessary,  then,  that  we  not 
only  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  that  we  retain  it  by  re- 
taining the  remission  of  our  sins.    Let  us  then,  be  prepared  and  worthy 


154 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


to  go  into  these  sacred  houses,  and  carry  out  our  part  as  suggested  in 
the  message  that  was  given  to  us  through  the  Angel  Moroni,  when  the 
Prophet  Elijah  should  come  and  enable  us  to  go  into  these  houses 
and  perform  the  labors,  not  only  for  the  dead,  but  also  for  the  living. 

God  help  us  to  be  worthy,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  deeply  impressed  with  the 
remarks  of  my  brethren  during  this  conference.  The  impression  was 
made  at  the  beginning  of  the  service  in  the  remarks  of  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  and  so  on  each  day,  each  session  has  added  to  my  pleasure  and 
happiness  in  listening  to  the  wonderful  testimonies  that  have  been  borne. 
I  was  reminded  this  afternoon  of  the  chivalry  of  the  American  people, 
of  the  American  soldiers  and  the  American  sailors  during  the  Spanish- 
American  war,  at  the  great  naval  battle  in  San  Diego  harbor,  at  the 
conquering  of  the  Spanish  navy,  and  the  taking  of  many  prisoners. 
During  the  very  heat  of  that  terrible  naval  engagement  the  Spanish 
ships,  many  of  them,  were  set  on  fire  and  the  sailors  were  seen  cling- 
ing to  the  rigging  and  to  the  bows  and  bulwarks  of  the  vessels, 
and  jumping  overboard  to  save  them  from  being  burned.  The  Ameri- 
can sailors  began  to  shout  for  victory,  but  Admiral  Schley  issued  the 
command  that  they  should  cease  shouting,  for  could  they  not  see  their 
fellow  men  clinging  to  burning  vessels  and  going  down  into  the  ocean 
to  their  death !  So  the  shouting  and  the  hurrahing  ceased.  After 
the  close  of  the  war,  thirteen  thousand  Spanish  prisoners  were 
found  in  the  possession  of  the  American  forces-,  and  by  order  of  that 
Christian  gentleman,  President  William  McKinley,  those  prisoners 
were  taken  to  a  place  of  safety  and  there  fed  during  the  winter, 
kept  in  good  comfortable  quarters,  and  in  the  following  spring, 
placed  in  American  vessels  and  conveyed  home  to  their  own  country  to 
the  shores  of  Spain  without  cost  to  themselves  or  to  the  country  from 
which  they  came.  That  was  an  ideal  of  President  McKinley.  I 
have  always  felt  to  honor  him  as  a  true  Christian  gentleman.  He  made 
a  journey  across  the  plains  and  through  this  western  country,  and  had 
appointments  to  speak  in  different  places  in  the  West,  Salt  Lake  among 
the  rest,  but  while  in  California,  his  wife  was  taken  severely  ill,  and  he 
had  to  hurry  home,  and  therefore  his  engagements  were  canceled.  1 
went  to  Ogden  to  see  him  as  he  passed  through  that  city,  and  I  heard 
him  speak  a  few  words  from  the  rear  platform  of  his  car.  I  was  still 
more  impressed  with  the  dignity,  with  the  scholarship  and  with  the 
tenderness  of  that  great  man,  the  President  of  the  American  Republic. 

Now  as  to  the  gospel : 

In  fulfilment  of  the  prediction  of  Malachi,  as  quoted  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  by  the  Angel  Moroni,  Elijah  the  Prophet  appeared  to 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


155 


Joseph  Smith  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  and  committed  to  him  the  keys 
of  the  restoration  of  the  ordinances  for  the  dead.  Today  we  are  wit- 
nesses that  there  are  six  temples  now  finished  and  dedicated  in  which 
ordinances  for  the  dead  are  ministered.  On  the  26th  day  of  July,  two 
days  after  the  pioneers  landed  in  this  country,  it  is  said  that  President 
Brigham  Young,  the  great  pioneer  of  the  west,  placed  his  cane  on  the 
position  on  this  block  where  the  temple  now  stands  and  said :  "On  this 
spot  we  will  build  the  temple  of  the  Lord,"  and  although  he  lived  to 
lay  the  cornerstone  and  dedicate  it  at  the  beginning  of  the  building, 
he  did  not  live  to  see  its  completion,  but  he  led  in  the  dedication  of  the 
first  temple  that  was  completed  in  Utah.  That  was  in  1875,  if  I  remember 
rightly,  the  temple  of  St.  George  was  dedicated,  and  he  presided  at 
the  dedicatorial  services.  Then  further  on  came  the  dedication  of  the 
Logan  temple,  under  President  Taylor,  then  the  dedication  of  the  Manti 
temple,  under  the  President  of  the  Twelve,  Wilford  Woodruff ;  then 
came  finally  the  fulfilment  of  that  wonderful  vision  of  President  Wood- 
ruff's. Lie  said  in  relating  it,  that  some  years  before  the  Salt  Lake  temple 
was  finished,  he  saw  himself  seated  on  the  front  steps  of  the  temple. 
President  Brigham  Young  came  and  said  to  him :  "Brother  Woodruff, 
take  the  keys  and  unlock  the  doors  of  the  temple,  and  bid  the 
people  enter."  President  Woodruff  in  relating  this  at  the  dedica- 
torial services  of  the  temple,  said  he  was  very  much  surprised  that  he 
should  be  commissioned  to  dedicate  the  Salt  Lake  temple,  while  Presi- 
dent Taylor  was  still  living;  but  when  the  temple  was  finished,  in 
1893,  President  Taylor  had  passed  away  to  his  eternal  and  great  reward, 
and  President  Woodruff  had  been  elected  and  ordained  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  Almighty.  Then  he  said  he  could  see  why  he  was  com- 
missioned to  dedicate  that  holy  house,  years  before  its  completion. 
President  Woodruff  dedicated  two  temples,  one  at  Manti  and  the  one 
in  Salt  Lake  Cily.  President  Taylor  dedicated  the  Logan  temple ;  and 
now  recently  our  beloved  President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  led  in  the  build- 
ing and  the  finishing  and  the  dedication  of  two  other  temples,  one  on  the 
Hawaiian  islands,  and  one  in  Canada.  I  pray  with  all  my  heart  that 
he  may  live  to  dedicate  very  many  more.  When  I  visit  our  temple  here 
in  Salt  Lake,  which  I  take  the  opportunity  of  doing  occasionally,  I 
rejoice  to  see  the  anxiety  that  seems  to  possess  the  people  in  prosecuting 
this  work  for  the  redemption  of  their  dead  kindred.  This  temple  and, 
I  believe,  all  the  other  temples  are  filled  to  their  capacity  in  this  glorious 
work  of  redemption  for  the  dead.  I  am  satisfied  that  this  is  but  an- 
other great  evidence  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  of  the  divine  organi- 
zation of  the  true  Church  of  Christ  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith.  These  great  events  of  building  new  temples  and 
dedicating  them,  and  the  gathering  of  the  people  to  these  sacred  build- 
ings to  perform  their  duties  and  their  obligations  to  the  dead,  are  addi- 
tional evidences  to  me  of  the  truth  of  "Mormonism." 

But  beyond  and  far  greater  is  the  knowledge  that  I  possess  in 
my  own  heart,  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  to  me  in  the  inmost  recesses 


156 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


of  my  soul,  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel  as  proclaimed  now 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  divine  mission  of  the  Savior,  the  great 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  facts  brought  to  my  mind  as 
vividly  and  as  earnestly  and  as  truly  as  the  thought  and  the  knowledge 
of  my  own  existence.  I  know  today  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  di- 
vinely inspired  as  a  prophet  of  God.  May  the  Lord  increase  this  knowl- 
edge for  us  all,  I  pray,  and  make  our  testimonies  bright  and  real  and 
sure,  that  we  may  be  encouraged  to  go  on  with  the  great  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged,  until  the  redeeming  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
shall  reach  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth,  and  every  one  of  our 
Father's  children  shall  have  the  privilege  of  receiving  these  great  truths, 
and  thus  bring  to  pass  their  redemption,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  exceedingly  to  have  had  to  limit  the  time  of  any  of  the 
brethren  in  these  conferences.  I  am  sure  that  every  speaker,  judging 
by  myself,  would  have  been  pleased  to  occupy  more  time  in  talking 
to  the  Saints.  When  we  stand  up  to  speak  and  the  Lord  blesses  us 
with  the  light  and  inspiration  of  his  Spirit,  it  is  rather  a  difficult 
matter  not  to  want  to  talk  and  keep  on  talking.  I  confess  freely,  that 
it  is  very  seldom  when  I  am  addressing  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  I 
do  not  have  very  many  ideas  come  into  my  mind  that  I  would  like  to 
express ;  but  1  feel  the  necessity  of  not  continuing  my  remarks,  as  a 
rule,  longer  than  1  have  done  in  the  past.  I  therefore  regret  that  it  is 
not  possible  to  give  the  brethren  the  opportunity  and  the  chance  to 
more  fully  express  themselves ;  but  I  am  sure  that  many  of  them  who 
have  been  limited  to  ten  minutes  have  done  themselves  proud,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  in  testifying  to  us  during 
the  short  time  that  was  allotted  them. 

Now  to  the  law  and  testimony  as  we  believe  in  it. 

BELIEF  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

"We  believe  that  all  religious  societies  have  a  right  to  deal  with  their 
members  for  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  such 
societies;  provided  that  such  dealings  be  for  fellowship  and  good  standing;  but 
we  do  not  believe  that  any  religious  society  has  authority  to  try  men,  on  the 
right  of  property  or  life,  to  take  from  them  this  world's  goods,  or  put  them 
in  jeopardy  of  either  life  or  limb,  or  to  inflict  any  physical  punishment  upon 
them.  They  can  only  excommunicate  them  from  their  society,  and  withdraw 
forrn,  them  their  fellowship." 

"We  believe  that  men  should  appeal  to  the  civil  law  for  redress  of  all 
wrongs  and  grievances,  where  personal  abuse  is  inflicted  or  the  rights  of  property 
or  character  infringed,  where  such  laws  exist  as  will  protect  the  same;  but, we 
believe  that  all  men  arc  justified  in  defending  themselves,  their  friends  and 
property,  and  the  government,  from  the  unlawful  assaults  and  encroachments 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


157 


of  all  persons  in  times  of  exigency,  where  immediate  appeal  cannot  be  made  to 
the  laws,  and  relief  afforded." 

I  spent  considerable  time  while  Brother  Ivins  w'as  preaching,  look- 
ing through  a  lot  of  old  papers  for  a  few  words  that  I  wanted  to  read 
to  this  congregation.  It  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  honored,  by  playing  a 
game  of  golf  with  the  President  of  the  United  States.  It  also  fell  to 
my  lot,  when  a  very  noted  attorney,  Judge  James  A.  Emery,  came  here 
to  make  a  very  important  speech  as  an  industrial  expert,  to  be  invited 
to  play  a  game  of  golf  with  him.  And  after  playing  that  game  of  golf, 
I  had  the  privilege  of  hearing  him  deliver  his  speech  at  the  Country 
Club.  He  expressed  pleasure  in  coming  back  to  Ultah  and  he  an- 
nounced— I  do  not  know  that  I  can  give  his  words — that  the  people 
of  Utah  stood  like  a  great  rock  in  the  ocean  against  the  waves  of  dis- 
content. 

A  ROCK  OF  CERTAINTY. 

I  just  wish  to  read  one  little  tribute  from  his  address : 

"In  renewing  an  old  acquaintanceship  comes  a  peculiar  source  of  in- 
spiration. I  have  been  impressed  with  the  continuing  evidence  which  the  light 
of  Utah  has  had  in  the  development  of  the  state.  Tell  me  what  a  man  thinks 
and  I  will  tell  you  what  he  does.  This  community  has  stood  like  a  rock  of 
certainty  and  decision  in  the  midst  of  radicalism  and  discontent.  Utah  has  stood 
as  one  of  the  cornerstones  of  reliability  in  the  American  political  structure." 

That  is  from  one  of  the  great  lawyers  of  the  United  States.  After 
his  speech,  1  had  the  pleasure  of  riding  to  the  Country  Club  in  the 
automobile  with  him,  and  afterwards  of  having  a  little  ride  to  en- 
joy some  of  the  scenery.  The  gentleman  owning  and  driving  the 
automobile,  was  not  a  member  of  our  Church,  but  in  complimenting 
judge  Emery  upon  his  magnificent  address,  he  said:  "Credit  is  due 
to  the  'Mormon'  people  for  not  defending  those  things  that  are  con- 
trary to  the  fundamental  laws,  and  the  sustaining  of  the  institutions  of 
our  country,"  or  some  words  to  that  effect ;  and  the  Judge  said :  "Why, 
everybody  knows  that."  I  might  add :  except  some  people  here  at 
home. 

We  hear  a  great  deal  about  the  wonderful  influence  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" priesthood  and  the  tyranny  of  it ;  and  this  reminds  me  of  a  little  in- 
cident in  my  own  life.  When  I  was  a  vice-president  of  the  Chamber 
of  Commerce  and  a  certain  gentleman  was  made  the  secretary,  I  sug- 
gested that  we  have  that  gentleman  write  a  pamphlet  upon  the  resources 
and  attractions  of  Utah,  inviting  people  to  come  here  and  make  perma- 
nent homes — but  of  course  we  do  not  want  anybody  to  come,  so  we 
are  told! 

FALSE  AND  TRUE  PROPAGANDA. 

And  he  wrote  that  pamphlet,  and  I  suggested  that  after  the  cost  of 
setting  up  the  type  had  been  returned  and  we  had  had  our  investment 
returned,  that  this  man  have  an  increase  of  salary  because  of  the 


158 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


selling  of  the  pamphlet.  A  few  months  later  he  thanked  me  for  having 
made  that  motion,  because  he  said  that  he  was  getting  $20  or  $25  per 
month  from  it  and  it  was  adding  to  his  meager  salary.  I  said :  "It 
is  contemptible  for  any  man  to  receive  thanks  from  his  fellow-man 
in  a  favor  that  he  did  not  extend.  I  did  not  nominate  you,  and  suggest 
that  you  write  that  pamphlet  because  I  wanted  to  increase  your  salary, 
although  I  did  announce  that  it  would  increase  it.  I  nominated  you 
to  write  that  pamphlet  because  I  knew  you  would  have  to  tell  the  truth 
in  your  writing,  and  that  the  truth  printed  in  that  pamphlet  would  brand 
the  articles  that  you  had  written  upon  this  city  years  ago  as  a  United 
States  official,  as  plain,  simple  lies.  That  is  why  I  nominated  you,  sir. 
Among  other  things,  you  said  that  the  "Mormon"  Priesthood  controlled 
the  people  in  every  city,  in  every  home,  and  all  over  this  Territory, 
and  that  they  were  getting  rich  by  robbing  the  people,  in  the  articles 
you  wrote  for  eastern  publication.  In  this  pamphlet  you  say  that  in 
no  other  state  or  territory  of  the  United  States  are  such  splen- 
did opportunities  for  settlers  to  be  found  as  in  Utah  and  that  the 
city,  community  and  territorial  taxes  are  lower  than  in  any  other  state 
or  territory  in  the  Union.  What  a  pity  that  these  robbers  could  not 
be  exported  to  rob  other  people  by  reducing  their  taxes !"  About  that 
time  he  looked  as  if  he  would  like  to  hit  me  instead  of  thanking 
me.  I  decided  that  I  was  quick  enough  to  dodge  if  he  should  at- 
tempt to  do  so. 

AUTHORITY  OF  PRIESTHOOD. 

Now,  with  reference  to  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  God 
and  how  it  is  to  be  exercised :  The  Prophet  of  the  living  God  was  im- 
prisoned in  Liberty  jail  and  there  was  a  desire  that  he  should  be  tried 
and  executed ;  but  all  the  prison  doors  in  all  the  world  can  not  prevent 
the  revelations  of  the  mind  and  the  will  of  God  coming  to  those  that 
are  entitled  to  receive  them ;  and  while  in  Liberty  jail  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  received  one  of  the  very  greatest  of  all  the  great  revela- 
tions from  God  that  are  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I 
read  from  Section  121 : 

"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure  ?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the 
Almighty  from-  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints, 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

"That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ;  the  Spirit 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


159 


of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or 
the  authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  1  ittle  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they  will 
immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  diminion. 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen." 

INSPIRED  WORDS. 

Now,  I  want  to  emphasize  the  balance  of  this  revelation,  given  in 
a  jail.  With  all  the  power  of  a  State  trying  to  take  away  the  liberty 
of  Joseph  Smith,  they  could  not  prevent  the  communication  of  that 
prophet  with  the  heavens,  and  he  received  the  following  inspired  words 
that  should  never  be  forgotten  by  any  bishop  or  any  president  of  a 
stake,  or  any  apostle,  or  any  president  of  the  Church  as  long  as  they 
hold  office  in  this  Church: 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood, only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness,  ,and 
by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom  thou 
hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood 
shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion," 

MORE  PRICELESS  THAN  WEALTH. 

More  priceless  than  all  the  wealth  of  all  the  world  is  to  have  the 
Holy  Ghost  as  our  constant  companion. 

"and  thy  scepter  an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and 
thy  dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  with  out  compulsory  means 
it  shall  flow  unto  thee  for  ever  and  ever." 

We  are  an  ignorant  people,  are  we?  Why,  Dr.  Winship  an- 
nounces that  we  have  the  best  laws  on  education  of  any  state  in 
the  United  States,  and  yet  the  majority  of  the  legislature  come  from 
the  ignorant  "Mormons." 

We  are  a  vile  people,  are  we  ?  Consider  this :  the  governor  of 
Arizona  announced  that  if  we  had  our  just  dues  we  would  not  have 
been  robbed  of  between  twenty-five  hundred  and  three  thousand  per 
cent  of  some  of  the  taxes  in  Arizona,  namely :  that  we  were  entitled  to 
twenty-five  or  thirty  inmates  in  the  state  penitentiary  and  only  had 
one.  He  also  announced  that  we  were  being  robbed  because  we  did 
not  have  six  or  seven,  in  proportion  to  our  population  in  the  insane 
asylum. 


160 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


When  it  comes  to  divorces — the  crying  evil  of  the  age — we  are  not 
in  it  at  all! 

When  it  comes  to  marrying,  we  can  lead  them  every  time. 

When  it  comes  to  fulfilling  the  first  great  commandment  of  God : 
to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth — we  lead.  Utah's  best  crop,  and 
Canada's  and  Mexico's  best  crop,  in  every  true,  loyal,  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saint  family,  is  babies. 

Our  death-rate  is  lower.    Our  birth-rate  higher. 

BY   THEIR  FRUITS. 

"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them,"  and  we  are  at  the  defiance 
of  the  world  in  all  the  vital  statistics  that  go^  to  show  that  we  are  a 
Christian  people,  that  we  do  acknowledge  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Savior 
and  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  are  living  up  to  his  teachings.  We  are 
at  the  defiance  of  any  honest  man  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  to  point 
out  that  we  do  not  lead  in  all  those  things;  and  the  Savior  said,  "By 
their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

Speaking  of  the  accomplishments  in  our  Mexican  colonies,  that 
great  president  and  warrior  who  ruled  Mexico  with  an  iron  hand  for 
so  many  years — Porfirio  Dias,  when  he  visited,  just  a  short  time  before 
he  was  driven  from  his  country,  the  fair  in  Chihuahua,  when  he  came 
to  the  exhibits  of  industry  and  frugality;  when  he  saw  the  products 
of  our  canning  factories,  our  harness  factories,  the  shoe  factories; 
when  he  saw  the  exhibits  from  our  academy  there — as  fine  an  academy 
as  is  in  all  Utah,  barring  only  Logan,  Ogden,  Salt  Lake,  and  Provo, 
our  four  principal  cities — when  he  saw  all  the  exhibits  there,  that 
warrior,  whom  nobody  would  expect  to  shed  a  tear,  when  he  saw  what 
this  "ignorant"  people  had  done  in  Mexico,  wiped  his  eyes  and  said: 
"What  could  I  not  do  with  my  beloved  Mexico  if  I  had  more  citizens 
like  these  'Mormons?'" 

In  Canada  we  have  made  a  record  second  to  no  people. 

GOOD  COLLEGE  RECORDS. 

In  every  college  of  the  United  States  where  our  boys  have  gone, 
in  every  university  attended  by  them,  they  have  made  a  record  that 
is  the  equal  to  the  best.  We  expended  of  the  Church  funds  and  the 
people's  funds,  last  year,  a  million  dollars  because  we  are  a  lot  of 
ignoramuses  and  want  to  keep  the  people  in  ignorance.  "The  Glory 
of  God  is  intelligence." 

Let  me  read  some  more  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

"Whatever  principles  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise 
with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through 
his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in 
the  world  to  come. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — ■ 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


161 


Latter-day  Saints  realize,  know  and  comprehend  that  one  of  the 
greatest  duties  devolving  upon  them  is  to  gain  knowledge,  and  to  study 
and  get  information  out  of  good  books. 

"If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy, 
we  seek  after  these  things." 

God  lives,  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
the  true  and  the  living  God;  and  this  work  called  "Mormonism"  is 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer,  and  is  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation;  and  all  the  disbelief  of  the  world,  all  the  opposition  of  all 
the  world  cannot  stop  it,  God  has  established  it  and  it  wi.l  go  on  and 
on  until  it  has  Milled  its  destiny!  And  may  God  help  you  and  me 
and  every  soul  that  has  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  to 
live  the  Gospel,  that  our  acts  may  preach  it,  is  my  prayer  and  1  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Deseret  News  has  been  broadcasting  all  the  remarks  made 
here  this  morning  and  this  afternoon. 

I  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  and  thanks  to  all  the  Saints  for 
the  very  remarkable  and  splendid  order  we  have  had  during  all  our 
conference  meetings.  I  believe  it  has  been  the  very  best  of  any  con- 
ference I  have  ever  attended. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  very  large  attendance.  I  am  thankful 
for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  all  those  who  have  spoken. 

I  am  grateful  indeed  that  President  Penrose,  who  will  soon  be 
92  years  of  age,  has  been  able  to  be  with  us  and  lift  up  his  voice  in 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work. 

We  will  now  ask  you  to  arise  and  President  Penrose  will  offer  the 
benediction. 

The  choir  sang  "Inflammatus."  solo  by  Miss  Dolores  Seal. 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose. 
The  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
Professor  B.  Cecil  Gates.  Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  played  the  accom- 
paniments, interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P. 
Kimball  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson ;  and  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  by  Frederick  E.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Austin,  Elder  Mark   22 

Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities  of  the  Church  General   82 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   28 


To  Bring  to  Pass  the  Redemption  of  the  Lamanit.es,  28 — To  Bless, 
Benefit  and  Save  the  People  of  the  World,  30 — God's  Voiee 
Crying  Repentance  Through  the  Elements,  31 — Signs  of  the 
Second  Coming  of  Christ,  32 — You  shall  See  Wonderful  Things 
Come  to  Pass  in  this  Generation,  321 — This  is  an  Individual  Test- 


ing Time,  32. 

Ballif,  Elder  Serge  F   93 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   78 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   80 

Chipman,  Elder  Stephen  L   42 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger    85 


True  and  False  Evolution,  85 — One  Kind  of  Animal  Never 
Changes  Into  Another  Kind,  86 — Testifying  in  Song  and  Sermon 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God',  86 — Church  Going  For- 
ward with  Increasing  Temporal  and  Spiritual  Power,  87 — Test- 


mony,  87. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B   62 

General  Authorities  Present     1 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  1,  83 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


President's  Visit,  2 — Temple  Dedicated,  3 — Spirits  Attuned,  4 — 
Cumorah  Conference,  4 — In  the  Sacred  Grove,  5 — Faith  Increased, 
5 — New  inspiration.  6 — The  Arizona  Temple,  6 — Missionares  Safe, 
7 — Impressive  Slogan,  7 — A  Matter  of  Regret,  8 — Given  with 
Promise,  9 — Favorably  Impressed,  9 — Teachings  Confirmed,  10 
— Benefit  of  Obedience,  10 — Rejoice  in  Testimonies,  11 — Loyal 


to  Country,  11. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   22 

Part  of  the  Hill  Cumorah  Purchased,  22. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   82 

Presented  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   84 

Regrets  Lack  of  Time. 
Grant,  President  Heber  j   85 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney's  Health. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  101 

Elder  David  O.  McKay  in  Europe. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  148 

Further  Speakers. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  156 


Belief  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  156 — A  Rock  of  Certainty,  157 
— False  and  True  Propaganda,  157 — Authority  of  Priesthood  158 — 
Inspired  Words,  1,59— More  Priceless  Than  Wealth,  159— By 
Their  Fruits,  160— Good  College  Records,  160. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  161 

Closing  Remarks. 


INDEX  163 

Hale,  Elder  Heber  Q   40 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  150 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  139 


"If  This  Be  the  Work  of  Men,"  139— Why  the  Speaker  Thought 
of  This  Quotation,  140 — Opposing  the  Church,  140' — Why  make 
Response?  140 — Doctrines  Best  Evidence,  141 — Testimony  from 
Book  of  Mormon,  142 — Another  Witness,  142 — This  is  Christ's 
Church,  143 — As  to  Ignorance,  143— As  to  Patriotism  and  Devo- 
tion, 144 — Not  the  Works  of  Ignorance,  145 — Feet  Upon  Safe 
Ground,  146 — A  Call  to  Come  to  Christ.  147. 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi  118 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  125 

The  Tabernacle,  126 — Temple  of  Solomon,  126 — Temple  of  Zerub- 
babel,  127— Temple  of  Herod,  127— Nephite  Temples,  128— 
Temples  Erected  by  Latter-day  Saints,  128 — Temple  Site  at  Inde- 
pendence, 129 — Kirtland  Temple,  129 — Temple  Site  at  Far  West, 
Missouri,  129 — Nauvoo  Temple,  129 — St.  George  Temple,  130 — 
Logan  Temple,  130 — Manti  Temple,  130 — Salt  Lake  City  Temple, 
131 — Hawaiian  Temple,  131 — Alberta  Temple,  131 — Arizona  Tem- 


ple, 132. 

Knight,  Elder  John  M  Ill 

Larkin,  Elder  Joseph  J   21 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   33 


Moroni's  Message,  33 — The  Law  of  Tithing,  33 — The  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  Its  Promises,  34 — Enforce  the  Anti-Cigarette  Law, 
35 — The  Gospel  Will  Ultimately  Conquer  the  World,  36 — Another 
Promise  of  the  Lord,  36 — Splendid  Leaders  in  the  Church,  36 — 


We  Stand  for  Divine  Guidance,  37. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   97 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W   58 

Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present   1 

Officers  of  the  Church,  General   83 

Parkinson,  Elder  Samuel  W   40 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W   12 


The  Spirit  and  Power  of  God  With  the  Church,  12 — The  Succes- 
sors to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  Men  of  God,  13 — Pleasure  in  the 
Progress  of  Temple  Work,  13 — Our  Duty  Today,  14 — We  Be- 
lieve in  Jesus  Christ;  This  is  His  Church,  15 — Zion  jvill  Prosper 
Regardless  of  the  Efforts  of  Her  Opponent,  15 — We  Need  not  be 
Concerned,  Our  Duties  Are  Plain,  16 — Centennial  Celebration  of 
the  Visits  of  Moroni.  16 — Need  of  Proper  Understanding  of  the 
Scripture,  17— We  Must  Preach  the  Gospel  in  All  the  World, 
19— The  Lord  Well  Pleased  With  His  People,  19— Testimony,  19. 


Peterson,  Elder  Carl  E  134 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  102 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr  106 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   44 


Achievements  of  Joseph  Smith,  44 — A  Remarkable  Conception  of 
Civil  Government,  44 — Influence  of  the  Bible  on  the  Constitution, 
45 — I  Shall  Mention  But  a  Few  Items,  46 — How  the  Principles  of 
This  Government  Can  Endure,  47 — The  Principles  of  This  Gov- 
ernment a  Part  of  the  Gospel,  47. 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   65 

A  Phase  of  the  Angel  Moroni's  Message,  65 — Scripture  Bearing 
On    the    Subject.    66 — The     Interpretation,    66 — Responsibility 


164 


CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS 


Upon  the  Person,  the  Church  and  the  World,  67 — The  Spirit  of 
Elijah,  68 — Importance  of  Temple  Work,  68 — An  Opportunity  to 
Work  at  Home,  69. 

Roberts,  Elder  B  H   88 

Mission  Motto,  89 — The  Summer's  Campaign,  89 — The  Conference 
at  Cumorah,  90 — The  Messages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  91. 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr  20 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   55 

Events  of  a  Hundred  Years  Ago,  55 — Joseph  Smith's  Contribution 
to  Spiritual  Thought,  55 — Witnesses  Testify  to  Joseph's  Wonder- 
ful Manifestations,  56 — Ancient  Prophecy  Fulfilled,  56 — Are  We 
Prepared  for  New  Revelations?  57. 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   69 

Gratitude  and  Thanks  Expressed,  69 — This  Life  is  Not  the  End, 
70 — No  Doubt  as  to  the  Outcome,  71 — Some  Choice  Blessings  that 
We  Enjoy,  71 — Are  We  Worthy  to  be  Called  Saints?,  72 — The  Lord 
of  Lords  Our  Teacher,  73 — Thankful  for  Noble  Men  to  Represent 
Us  in  the  Nation,  73 — Let  Us  Not  Change  Our  Blessings  for 
Foolish  Attractions,  74. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G  100 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  115 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   74 

Appreciation  of  Conference  and  the  Speakers,  74 — Conditions  in 
the  Christian  World,  75— A  Message  for  the  World,  75— The 
Probability  of  Its  Truth,  76— A  Tribute  to  Mother,  76— A  Young 
Convert's  Telling  Testimon3',  77 — Not  Ashamed  Anywhere  of  the 
ResrBted  Gospel  of  Christ,  77 — The  Burden  of  War  the  Result 
erf  the  Burden  of  Sin,  77 — World  Can  be  Saved  Only  by  a  Knowl- 
edge of  God  and  the  Use  of  Common  Sense,  78. 

Talmage',  Elder  James  E   48 

The  Purpose  of  the  Creation  of  the  World,  48 — Close  Relationship 
Between  Earth  and  Man,  49 — Man  and  Earthly  Phenomena,  50 — 
Disruption  Signalized  the  Savior's  Death,  50 — Modern  Prophecy 
on  the  Subject,  51 — The  Recent  Calamity  in  Japan,  51 — Righteous 
and  Culpable  Suffer  Together,  52 — Nations,  as  well  as  Individuals 
Held  to  Account,  52 — The  Way  of  Escape,  54 — The  Time  of 
Christ's  Advent  is  Near,  54. 

Taylor,  Elder  Fnftik  Y     37 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H  109 

Taylor,  Elder  George  S   132 

Wells,  Elder  John  .  .  .  .  >  136 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S..  .  /.  152 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   23 

Truth  Needs  No  Bolstering,  23 — Truth  Always  Comes  in  Light, 
24 — The  Wonderful  Pedagogy  of  Moroni's  Teaching,  25 — The 
Divine  Nature  of  the  Manifestation,  25 — Truth  Ever  Shapes  the 
Destiny  of  Humanity,  26 — We  Are  Made  Fearless  and  Unafraid  by 
Truth,  27. 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S  122 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  148 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B  154 


/ 


DESERET  BOOK 

COMPANY 

(IIIHIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIMIIItllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIII  ' 

44  East  So.  Temple  St.  j 


We  can  supply  you  with  1 

BOOKS 

For  all  Departments  of  Sunday  School  Work. 

Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  M.  I.  Associa- 
tions, including  Manuals  and  the  New  Read- 
ing Course. 

Text  Books  for  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  Quorums'  study. 

Church  School,  Seminary  and  Religion  Class 
Text  Books  and  Books  of  Reference. 

Primary  Association;  Stories  to  tell  Children, 
Short  Stories,  Dialogues,  Recitations,  Speak- 
ers and  Music  Books. 

Books  for  every  day  in  the  year,  especially  for 
Summer  reading — Immense  Lines,  new  and 
attractive. 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOGUE  FREE 


Three  Notable  Books 

rEC3iiviiiiiitiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiic2iiiiiiiiniis:ai  i  vsini  iiBiEaiiimi  i  iiiisai  iiiiiiiiiiicsiii  ■■  i  iiiincsi 
ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Church  Historian 
A  History  of  the  Church  from  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  to  the 
present  time,  in  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME,  of  700  pages,  suitably 
illustrated  with  portraits  of  the  leaders,  early  scenes  and  docu- 
ments of  historical  value,  and  original  maps,  showing  the  travels 
of  the  Church  from,  its  organization  to  its  establishment  in  the 
mountains;  also  the  route  of  the  famous  Mormon  Battalion  to  the 
Pacific  Coast. 

It  is  well  printed  and  handsomely  bound,  and  will  be  sold  at 

the  special  low  price,  in  cloth  $1.75 

Three-Fourths  Leather   3.00 

"A  Guide  to  the  study  of  Essentials  in  Church  History"  con- 
taining lessons  for  the  entire  volume  and  arranged  for  a  two 
years'  course,  each  15c,  Doz.  $1.50. 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  THOUGHTS 

A  Series  of  Dissertations  on  Spiritual,  Historical  and  Philosophical  Themes 
BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
The  book  ^s  designated  for  use  in  L.  D.  S.  schools  and  sem- 
inaries, but  as  the  Themes  in  this  work  are  calculated  to  stim- 
ulate study  and  deep  reflection  of  Gospel  truths,  it  will  be  prized 
by  the  thoughtful  reader  everywhere.     Handsomely  bound  in 
cloth,  $1.25. 

Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 

BY  NEPHI  LOWELL  MORRIS 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the 
century  that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Ha^e 
the  Latter-day  Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress 
of  a  hundred  years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the 
title  of  a  Prophet? 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has 
dug  up  old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays 
before  his  readers,  with  photographic  reproductions  of  the  orig- 
inals.  Price,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

444648  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


