sixty=bighth: 


nnual  Conference! 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
:       OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS, 

Tld  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, -April  6$.h,  7th,  8th  and 
10th,  1898,  with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


b  an.  Account  of  the  General  Conference  of 
fe>  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 


COPYRIGHTED  18fl8.    ALL  RIGHTS  RE=yERVED. 


Deseret  News  Publtshinp  Company. 
1898. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Sixty-eighth  annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.  on 
Wednesday,  April  6th,  1898,  President 
Wilford  Woodruff  presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present  on 
the  stand  there  were  of  the  First 
Presidency— Wilford  Woodruff,  George 
Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph  P.  Smith;  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles- 
Lorenzo  Snow,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Mar- 
riner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley 
and  Abraham  Owen  Woodruff:  Patri- 
arch John  Smith:  of  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  of  Seventies — Seymour  B. 
Young,  C.  D.  Fjelstead,  B.  H.  Roberts, 
George  Reynolds  and  Jonathan  G. 
Kimball;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric— 
William  B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton 
and  John  R.  Winder. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  John 
Nicholson. 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 

By  Prophets  long  foretold, 
When  with  harmonious  lay, 

The  sheep  of  Israel's  fold 
On  Zion's  hill  his  praise  proclaim, 
And  shout  Hosanna  to  His  name, 

was  sung  by  the  choir. 


PRESIDENT    WILFORD  WOOD- 
RUFF. 

OPENING  REMARKS . 

I  feel  very  thankful  to  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  with  so  many  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this,  our 
Sixty-eighth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  had  my  fears  that  I  would 
not  be  able  to  attend  this  Conference 
at  all,  as  I  have  been  quite  unwell  the 
last  month;  but  the  last  day  or  two 
I  have  been  blessed  with  better  health. 
It  is  a  great  satisfaction  to  me  to  have 
this  privilege.  I  am  satisfied  myself 
that  there  are  many  thousands  in  the 
spirit  world,  including  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  other  leaders  of  this 
Church,  who  are  quite  as  deeply  inter- 
ested in  this  Conference  and  our  work 
today  as  we  possibly  can  be  ourselves. 
I  hope,  while  we  are  together,  that  we 
may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God;  that  our 
minds  may  be  opened,  and  our  teach- 
ings and  instructions  be  led  in  that 
channel  which  shall  be  unto  the  edifi- 
cation of  the  Saints  and  beneficial  to 
us. 

The  signs  of  the  times  show  that 
the  Lord  has  not  forgotten  His  prom- 
ises, made  through  the  inspiration  of 
Prophets  and  Apostles  in  generations 
that  are  past  and  gone.  There  ha:5 
been  a  great  change  in  the  world  with 
regard  to  "Mormonism"  the  last  year 
of  our  lives,  as  shown  in  the  increase 
of  the  work  and  qf  the  labors  of  the 
Elders  of  Israel  among  all  the  nation"-; 
where  they  have  been  called  to  travel. 
I  hope  and  pray  that^ve  may  be  in  a 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


condition  to  comprehend  our  duties  to- 
day and  what  is  lying  before  us,  that 
the  purposes  of  God  concerning  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints  may  be  carried  out. 
I  trust  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be 
with  not  only  those  who  speak  and 
teach  during  this  Conference,  but  with 
those  also  who  sit  and  hear.  My 
prayer  to  God  is  that  His  blessing  may 
be  over  us,  that  our  minds  may  be 
open  to  comprehend  our  duties,  our 
blessings,  and  those  things  which  are 
required  at  our  hands;  that  we  may 
be  true  and  faithful  in  our  labors 
while  we  dwell  in  the  flesh,  so  that 
when  we  get  through  we  may  be  satis- 
fied with  our  labors  here,  and  be 
justified  when  we  are  called  to  give 
an  account  of  the  deeds  done  in  the 
body.  I  say,  God  bless  you.  I  pray 
for  His  Holy  Spirit  to  rest  upon  us 
as  the  Saints  of  God,  and  upon  those 
who  may  address  us;  which  is  my  de- 
sire in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Dawning  of  a  brighter  day— Predictions  in  relation 
to  the  work  of  God— Guided  by  the  Spirit  of 
prophecy — Trials  and  deliverances,  past,  present 
and  prospective— the  missionary  department- 
Advisability  of  using  women  as  missionaries. 

It  is  gratifying  this  morning  to  see 
so  large  an  assemblage  in  this  building, 
at  the  commencement  of  our  Confer- 
ence, and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  in- 
terest that  is  manifested  today  by  those 
who  are  present  will  be  maintained  dur- 
ing the  Conference,  that  through  that 
interest  we  may  obtain  a  goodly  decree 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  may  all  feel, 
when  this  Conference  closes,  that  it  has 
been  the  best  Conference  we  ever  at- 
tended. This  is  is  the  usual  feeling 
which  those  who  attend  the  Confer- 
ences experience.  At  each  Conference 
the  blessings  of  God  that  are  re- 
ceived appear  to  be  greater  than 
ever  before,  and  of  course  this 
feeling  is  produced  by  the  in- 
terest that  each  one  has  in  attending 
the  meetings  and  in  listening  to  the  in- 
structions and  drinking  into  the  spirit 
of  the  Conference.  It  is  most  gratify- 
ing to  all  of  us  to  see  President  Wood- 
ruff and  to  hear  his  voice.  As  he 
has  said,  he  scarcely  expected  a  few 
days  ago  to  be  able  to  attend  this  Con- 
ference, suffering  as  he  did  from  a  very 


severe  attack  of  cold.  But  he  is  here 
with  us,  and  it  is  a  cause  of  great  satis- 
faction and  pleasure  to  all  to  see  him 
and  to  hear  his  voice,  even  if  it  is  only 
for  a  brief  period. 

As  President  Woodruff  has  said,  the 
progress  of  the  work  is  very  gratifying. 
It  is  an  important  period  in  which  we 
are  living.  A  great  change  has  taken 
place  in  relation  to  this  work  and  its 
bearing  upon  the  nations.  No  doubt 
the  greater  portion  of  this  congregation 
will  remember  the  promises  that  were 
made  by  the  servant  of  God  during  the 
dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  five 
years  ago.  Predictions  were  made  then 
that  seemed  unlikely  to  be  fulfilled, 
looking  at  affairs  as  men  naturally  look 
at  them.  But  not  a  word  was  said 
concerning  the  progress  of  this  work 
and  the  favor  that  it  would  find  from 
that  time  forward  that  has  not  been 
literally  fulfilled. 

As  I  have  said,  a  great  change  has 
taken  place  in  relation  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  It  occupies  a  different  posi- 
tion, in  many,  respects,  to  that  which 
it  has  ever  occupied  before.  It  was  a 
cause  of  consolation  to  the  Saints,  in 
the  dark  hours  that  we  witnessed  some 
ten  or  twelve  years  ago,  to  hear  the  El- 
ders predict  that  a  better  day  was 
about  to  dawn  upon  the  people,  and 
that  we  should  emerge  from  the  trials 
and  difficulties  and  sorrows  of  those 
days  with  greater  influence  and  more 
power,  more  respected  as  a  people  than 
we  ever  had  been.  It  seemed  highly  im- 
probable that  those  predictions  would 
be  fulfilled,  because  the  bitterness  en- 
tertained toward  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  their  religion  was  so  widespread 
and  deep-seated.  But  those  predictions 
have  been  fulfilled. 

We  have  often  been  surrounded  by 
very  difficult  circumstances,  and  there 
have  been  many  times  in  our  history 
when  it  seemed  as  though  this  work  of 
God  would  be  overthrown  and  all  his 
purposes  brought  to  naught.  Those  who 
have  fought  against  this  work  have  in- 
dulged in  those  anticipations.  \The 
measures  which  they  undertook,  and 
which  they  endeavored  to  carry  out, 
had  for  their  object  the  destruction  of 
this  organization  and  the  breaking  up 
of  this  people.  They  supposed  these 
measures  sufficient  to  accomplish  the 
ends  they  had  in  view.  If  they  had 
not  felt  sure  of  this,  they  would,  with- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


3 


out    doubt,  have    tried    other  plans. 

That  which  has  sustained  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  during  their  times  of 
trial  has  been  the  spirit  of  prophecy. 
The  Lord  has  given  to  His  Elders  the 
spirit  of  prophecy.    In  the  midst  of  the 
most  terrible  trials,  when  the  people 
were  broken  up,  driven  out  from  their 
homes  and  possessions,  in  a  state  of 
utter  destitution,  without  food,  without 
proper  clothing-,  without  shelter,  home- 
less wanderers,  scattered  by  the  ruth- 
less  hand    of   violence — in  those  dark 
hours  the  Lord  gave  unto  His  servants 
the  spirit  of  prophecy.    It  rested  upon 
them  in  power,  and  they  predicted  to 
the  people  that  a  better  day  would 
dawn  upon    them,  and    they  would 
emerge  from  their  trials  stronger  and 
better,  more  firmly  rooted  in  the  faith 
which  the  Lord  had  revealed  to  them, 
than    they    were    before,    more  than 
once  in  the  history  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  mobs  driven  them  from 
their  homes — the  places  the  Lord  had 
designated  as  places  of  gathering;  and 
they  were  a   scattered  people,  brok- 
en up,  and  without  an  abiding  place. 
But    under  the  inspiraton    of  the  Al- 
mighty, through  the  spirit  of  prophecy 
that  He  gave  to  His  servants,  and  to 
the     people     themselves,    they  were 
drawn  together  and  held  by  bonds  that 
were    invisible  to    human  eyes.  And 
though  at  times  they  were  widely  sep- 
arated, they  were  drawn  together  to 
the  new  gathering  place,  which  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  through 
His  servants,  and  in  which  they  them- 
selves also  shared,  they  knew  to  be  the 
place  for  them  once  more  to  assemble. 
How  numerous  soever  the  temptatona 
all  around  them  to  induce    them  to 
desert  the  cause  of  God,  to  leave  a  peo- 
ple who  were  so  persecuted  and  who 
had  to  endure  such  trials,  these  in- 
visible bonds  of  which  I  speak  drew 
them  together  and  prompted  them  to 
again  attempt  to  build  up  cities  and 
temples,  where  they  could  worship  the 
Almighty  according  to  the  command- 
ments which  He  had  given  unto  them. 

It  is  truly  marvelous  to  look  back 
upon  the  history  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints;  to  see  the  power  that  had  been 
manifested  in  holding  them  together 
as  they  have  been.  As  I  have  said, 
those  who  framed  plans  against  them, 
supposed  they  could  not  fail  in  des- 
troying the  organization  of  the  Church 


and  separating  the  people  in  such  a 
way  that  they  would  never  again  be 
united.    But  the  people  did  gather  to- 
gether again.   It  was  the  power  of  God 
that  did  this.    It  was  the  spirit  of  pro- 
phecy that  rested  upon  the  servants  of 
God,  which    encouraged    the  people, 
which  told  them  that  the  Lord  had  re- 
vealed and  established  His  Church  on 
the  earth,  and  that  there  was  neither 
power  on  earth  nor  in  hell  that  could 
destroy  it,  or  that  could  thwart  His 
purposes,  as  predicted  by  the  mouths 
of  His  holy  prophets.    As  in  the  past, 
so  it  has  been  of  late  years.  That 
same  spirit  has  rested  upon  the  people. 
And  there  is  this  grand  peculiarity  con- 
nected wth  this  work;  it  has  not  been 
those  men  alone  who  have  been  chosen 
by  the  Lord  to  lead  who  have  had  this 
spirit.They  have  not  prophesied  without 
a  witness  on  the  part  of  the  faithful 
people  themselves  that  that  which  they 
said  was  the  truth  and  from  the  Al- 
mighty.   For  in  the  hearts  of  all  the 
Latter-day   Saints  there  has   been  a 
responsive  echo  to  the  words  of  hope, 
cheer  and  comfort  and  prophesy  that 
have  been  given  by  those  upon  whom 
the  spirit  of  prophecy  has  rested.  The 
people  have  felt  the  spirit,  thev  have 
been  cheered  and  sustained  by  it.  We 
have  seen  this  so  often  that  we  know 
that  that  which  the  Lord  has  spoken 
concerning  His  work  will  be  fulfilled. 

It  is  astonishing,  when  we  reflect 
upon  it,  what  has  been  done  in  this 
respect.  We  have  seen  people  driven 
out  from  their  homes  in  utter  desti- 
tution, crossing  the  plains,  with  im- 
provised wagons,  made  in  the  rudest 
manner,  out  of  the  greenest  material, 
with  cows,  or  oxen,  or  ponies,  or  any- 
thing that  could  be  hitched  up 
to  draw  them;  a  few  personal 
effects  thrown  into  the  wagon, 
with  a  small  amount  of  food, 
many  of  the  men,  and  the  women,  too, 
almost  barefooted,  and  the  children  in 
the  same  condition— all  inspired  by  one 
spirit,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God.  There 
was  nothing  in  their  circumstances, 
that  could  be  seen  by  the  natural  eye 
to  cheer  or  to  sustain  them.  But  they 
were  full  of  hope,  buoyant  in  their  feel- 
ings, traveling  with  as  much  confidence 
and  certainly  as  though  they  knew 
every  step  they  had  to  take  and  that 
there  was  a  good  place  ahead  of  them 
which  they  would  reach  and  in  the 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"pleasures  of  which  they  could  partake. 
We  have  seen  this,  I  say,  and  it  has 
been  an  astonishing-  illustration  of 
what  God  can  do  for  a  people;  of  how 
He  can  sustain  them,  and  inspire  them 
to  do  the  work  that  He  requires  at  their 
liands. 

When  the  Saints  were  in  Iowa  (then 
a  territory),  traveling  through,  and  af- 
terwards at  Winter  Quarters,  the  wo- 
men, in  many  instances,  took  their 
feather  beds,  and  sent  them  down  to 
Missouri  to  sell,  in  order  to  get  a  little 
provision.  All  sorts  of  expedients  were 
resorted  to  in  order  to  get  a  little  food. 
There  was  Missouri  on  the  left,  inviting 
the  people— a  good  land,  food  in  plenty, 
a  land  where  they  could  live  with  com- 
parative ease.  But  did  the  Saints 
swerve?  Did  they,  during  the  dreadful 
days  of  Winter  Quarters,  think  they 
must  desert  that  place  where  so  many 
died  through  exposure  and  the  want 
of  suitable  food,  and  gO'  where  they 
could  get  some  of  the  comforts  and  con- 
veniences of  life?  Were  such  thoughts 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people?  No;  no 
such  feeling  was  manifested.  If  any  de- 
serted then,  they  were  so  few  as  not  to 
be  remembered.  The  people  had  a  mis- 
sion. Each  man,  woman  and  child 
(that  was  old  enough)  felt  that  God  had 
entrusted  to  him  and  to  her  a  mission; 
and  with  unswerving  integrity,  with 
unfaltering  cpurage,  they  maintained 
their  foothold  there  until  the  time  when 
they  could  start  further  west. 

It  was  that  same  spirit  and  intensity 
of  devotion  that  inspired  them  in  com- 
ing to  this  land.  And  what  was  it 
that  kept  the  people  here?  What 
influence  was  there  operating  upon 
them?  Was  there  anything  inviting 
in  this  land?  To  look  at  it  now,  and 
to  imagine  that  this  was  its  condition 
when  the  brethren  and  sisters  came 
here  in  the  first  place,  you  would  say, 
"this  is  an  inviting  country,  a  de- 
lightful place  to  stop."  But  no  such 
sight  as  we  now  witness  was  beheld 
by  them.  Everything  was  forbidding. 
It  looked  as  though  the  people  might 
starve  to  death;  and  after  the 
■crickets  came  it  certainly  looked  for 
a  while  as  though  they  would 
starve  to  death.  Did  the  Latter-day 
Saints  falter  then?  No,  they  did  not. 
What  was  it  that  sustained  them?  It 
was  this  same  spirit  of  prophecy  that  I 
have  alluded  to — the  Spirit  of  God, which 


is  the  Spirit  of  prophecy.  the 
Elders  testified  that  this  was  the  place 
which  God  had  chosen,  and  which  He 
had  appointed  as  a  place  of  gathering 
for  His  Saints;  and  they  themselves 
had  the  same  testimony,  the  same 
spirit.  A  peculiar  love  sprung  up  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  for  this  land, 
even  in  those  days.  There  was  some- 
thing most  attracive  about  its  moun- 
tains and  valleys  and  these  clear 
streams  of  water  that  flowed  from  the 
mountains.  One  thing  that  added  to 
its  charm  was,  it  was  a  land  of  liberty, 
a  land  of  freedom,  a  land  where  mobs 
could  not  come  and  attack  us,  as  they 
had  done  in  the  past;  a  place  where 
the  families  of  the  Saints,  and  the  lead- 
ing men  among  them,  could  go  to  bed 
in  peace  and  quietness,  undisturbed  by 
the  fear  that  they  would  be  attacked 
during  the  night.  This  brought  a 
strange  and  delightful  feeling  of  relief. 
If  they  only  had  bread  to  eat,  or  suffi- 
cient to  sustain  life;  if  they  had  only 
water  to  drink,  I  believe  that  the  great 
bulk  of  the  people — with  scarcely  an 
exception,  I  may  say — would  have  been 
content  to  remain  here  even  under  those 
circumstances.The  idea  of  having  fruit 
such  as  we  now  have,  and  in 
such  abundance,  was  scarcely  an- 
ticipated. If  anticipated  at  all, 
it  was  by  but  very  few,  be- 
cause the  seeds  that  were  sown 
and  the  little  trees  that  grew  up  were 
frozen  down  the  first  two  or  three 
years.  But  there  was  a  contented  and 
a  happy  people  here.  They  went  to 
bed  with  their  doors  unlocked.  There 
was  no  fear  among  them.  They  had 
been  relieved  from  a  terrible  fear. 
Those  who  came  under  those  circum- 
stances could  recall  the  nights  and  the 
hours  they  had  spent  watching  and 
fearing  for  a  mob  to  come  upon  them 
to  drive  them  out  of  their  homes,  to 
burn  their  houses,  perhaps  to  inflict 
upon  them  personal  violence.  They  re- 
membered, too,  that  not  one  of  their 
leading  men  could  go  to  sleep  in  his 
house  without  having  a  guard  to  watch 
him.  The  relief  from  that  condition  of 
affairs  was  such  as  to  bring  happiness 
in  and  of  itself.  But  I  say  again,  it 
was  the  spirit  of  Prophecy  that  rested 
upon  the  Elders  and  upon  the  neoDle 
that  sustained  them.  God  revealed  by 
His  Holy  Spirit  the  future  that  awaited 
the  people.    The  people  knew,  as  they 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q  CANNON. 


5 


knew  that  they  lived,  that  this  work 
was  bound  to  triumph,  that  it  was 
bound  to  be  successful,  that  those  who 
clung  to  it  would  be  successful  with  it, 
and  that  there  was  a  great  and  glorious 
triumph  awaiting  them,  not  only  in 
this  life,  but  in  the  realms  of  bliss  in 
the  life  to  come. 

It  has  been  that  same  spirit  that  has 
rested  down  of  late  years  upon  the 
people.  They  have  been  comforted  and 
sustained  by  the  Spirit  of  God  and  the 
predictions  of  the  servants  of  God.  It 
is  a  wonderful  blessing,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  It  is  well  for  us  to  think 
of  it  today  as  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints;  think  that  we  are  in  this  happy 
condition;  that  the  heavens  are  in  com- 
munication with  us,  because  it  is  from 
heaven  that  we  receive  these  blessings 
that  are  so  delightful  and  that  have 
such  an  effect  upon  us  and  upon  our 
movements.  It  is  a  blessed  thing  to 
think  that  the  heavens  are  with  us  in 
this;  that  we  are  guided  by  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  Jesus;  that  the  gift 
of  prophecy  has  been  restored  in  our 
day,  and  has  been  received  and  enjoyed 
by  men.  Not  a  prediction  has  been 
uttered  concerning  this  work,  so  far  as 
the  work  itself  is  concerned,  that  has 
not  been  fulfilled.  Not  a  hope  has  been 
inspired,  not  an  encouragement  has 
been  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
by  the  prophets  of  God,  that  has  not 
up  to  the  present  hour  been  abundantly 
fulfilled,  as  far  as  we  have  gone.  Much 
yet  remains  to  be  fulfilled.  It  would 
be  impossible  for  the  human  mmd  to 
conceive  of  that  which  remains;  but 
we  see  the  fufillment  of  the  predictions 
as  we  progress  day  by  day.  They  are 
fulfilled  in  our  sight,  when  our  eyes  are 
open  bo  perceive  them.  Therefore,  our 
hearts  ought  to  be  filled  with  gladness 
and  exceeding  thanksgiving  to  'the 
Lord  our  God  that  we  are  in  this  con- 
dition; that  the  Lord  has  not  forgotten 
us;  that  He  has  not  closed  His  ears 
against  us,  nor  His  mouth,  so  that  He 
cannot  speak  to  us;  that  He  has  not 
turned  His  face  away  from  us;  but  that 
He  smiles  upon  us,  that  He  gives  unto 
us  the  comforting,  cheering  and  en- 
lightening influences  of  His  Holy 
Spirit  to  be  with  us. 

Now  we  are  passing  through  other 
trials.  "We  have  emerged  from  those 
that  environed  us  a  few  years  ago.  A 


great  change,  as  I  have  said,  has  taken 
place  in  public  feeling  concerning  us. 
Our  Elders  are  treated  generally  with 
a  great  deal  of  kindness.  Of  the  thou- 
sand Elders  that  are  now  laboring  in 
the  United  States,  the  report  comes 
from  most  of  them  that  they  are  treat- 
ed with  kindness.  Traveling  without 
purse  and  scrip,  they  are  entertained, 
friends  are  raised  up  to  them,  doors  are 
opened  to  them,  and  they  are  treated 
kindly,  and  not  persecuted  to  anything 
like  the  extent  they  were  a  few  years 
ago.  The  same  report  comes  from  the 
five  hundred  Elders  who  are 
now  engaged  in  the  ministry 
in  Europe.  Their  testimony  agrees 
with  the  testimony  of  the  servants 
of  God  in  the  United  States.  This  is 
particularly  the  case  in  the  German 
empire.  There  was  a  time  when  it  was 
almost  at  the  cost  of  personal  liberty 
that  men  preached  the  Gospel  there. 
They  had  to  do  so  in  secrecy,  in  places 
where  the  police  could  not  punish  them 
because  of  the  nature  of  their  gather- 
ings. But  now  this  is  changed.  Re- 
ligious freedom  has  dawned  in  many  of 
these  countries,  and  the  Elders  now 
can  preach  without  being  put  in  jeop- 
ardy as  they  were  a  few  years  ago. 

On  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  there  are 
some  two  hundred  Elders  laboring,  and 
their  labors  are  also  attended  with 
good  results.  They  speak  of  the  mani- 
festation of  the  power  and  blessings 
of  God  in  their  behalf,  and  of  the  kind- 
ly feeling  that  is  manifested  towards 
them  by  those  with  whom  they  are 
brought  in  contact. 

Thus  these  seventeen  hundred  Elders 
are  laboring  now  with  an  efficiency  and 
with  a  success  that  is  unparalled  in 
the  history  of  our  Church.  At  no  time 
has  this  Church  held  an  annual  Con- 
ference where  there  was  greater  cause 
for  gratulation  and  thanksgiving  than 
there  is  today  in  this  Sixty-eighth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Never 
before  were  there  so  many 
Elders  in  the  field.  Never 
before  did  they  meet  with  such  suc- 
cess. Never  before  were  there  so  many 
baptized  in  a  single  year  apparently 
as  there  have  been  during  this  year. 
These  causes  of  thanksgiving  ought  to 
be  remembered  by  us,  and  we  ought  to 
thank  our  God  from  the  bottom  of  our 
hearts  for  that  which  He  is  doing  for 


6 


GENERAL  CONFEREALE. 


us,  for  the  fulfillment  of  the  words  of 
the  servant  of  God  in  the  Temple  when 
it  was  dedicated;  for  he  then  proph- 
esied what  would  be  the  result  of  that 
dedication  and  the  glorious  effects  that 
would  follow  that  work. 

In  our  own  country  here  we  also 
have  cause  for  thanksgiving.  It  is 
interesting  to  the  Saints,  no  doubt,  to 
know,  as  many  probably  do  know, 
that  Brothers  Lyman  and  Cowley 
have  visited  the  conferences  and  the 
Elders  in  the  Southern,  Eastern  and 
Northern  States,  and  their  ministra- 
tions among  those  whom  they  have 
visited  have  been  attended  with  good 
effects,  in  regulating  affairs,  giving 
instructions,  correcting  anything  that 
was  improper  or  that  was  likely  to 
become  improper.  We  have  been 
greatly  gratified  at  hearing  the  reports 
which  they  have  given  to  us  of  the 
results  of  their  labors.  The  Presidents 
and  Elders  in  the  Southern,  Eastern, 
Northern  and  Southwestern  States 
missions  are  doing  excellent  work. 

As  you  know  probably,  Brother 
Anthon  H.  Lund  has  left  here  since 
our  last  Conference  for  Palestine,  ac- 
companied by  Brother  Hintze  (who 
formerly  labored  in  the  Turkish  mis- 
sion and  who  has  a  knowledge  of  the 
language)  and  an  Armenian  brother, 
who  wished  to  return  to  his  own  coun- 
try. The  object  of  their  going  is  to 
endeavor  to  secure  a  place  of  gather- 
ing for  the  Saints  of  the  Orient,  so 
that  they  may  not  be  subjected  to  the 
restrictions  that  are  imposed  upon  im- 
migrants to  this  land  from  those  coun- 
tries. We  do  not  know  how  successful 
they  may  be  in  their  labors;  but  the 
word  we  have  received  is  hopeful  and 
encouraging.  The  Elders  have  been 
greatly  blessed  so  far  in  their  journey, 
and  have  been  successful  at  their  first 
meeting  in  baptizing  quite  a  large 
number  of  people  who  were  prepared 
to  receive  the  Gospel,  and  also  con- 
firming a  number  who  had  been  bap- 
tized, but  who  had  not  been  con- 
firmed because  of  the  absence  of  a. 
bearer  of  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood. 
The  brethren  write  very  encourag- 
ingly on  these  matters,  and  we  hope 
they  will  be  successful  in  finding  a. 
spot,  if  it  be  the  Lord's  will,  whert 
the  Saints  of  the  Orient  can  commence 
to  gather  in  that  land,  so  that  tnt 
principle  of  gathering,  which  the  Lord 


is  impressing  strongly  upon  the  minds 
of  the  converts  to  His  Gospel,  may  be 
carried  out  there. 

The  Twelve  Apostles  at  home,  as  you 
all  know,  have  been  untiring  in  their 
labors  in  visiting  the  various  confer- 
ences and  laboring  with  the  Saints  to 
the  extent  of  their  ability.  Brothers 
John  Henry  Smith  and  John  W.  Tay- 
lor, during  a  few  weeks'  absence,  held 
100  meetings  with  the  Saints  in  the 
various  Stakes  where  they  visited,  and 
the  reports  that  come  to  us  show  that 
these  labors  have  been  attended  with 
excellent  effects. 

The  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies, 
also,  either  accompany  the  Twelve  or 
go  themselves.  They  are  a  traveling 
ministry,  laboring  very  assiduously  in 
their  calling  among  the  various  Stakes 
— those  of  them  who  are  home.  As 
you  know,  two  of  their  number  are 
now  in  Europe,  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission — Brothers  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

A  new  step  has  been  taken,  that  is, 
to  preach  to  the  surrounding  peoples. 
Our  attention  has  been  drawn  to  the 
states  surrounding  us.  Brother  John 
W.  Taylor  has  been  laboring  in  Color- 
ado with  a  number  of  Elders,  and  with 
great  success.  In  Denver,  Pueblo  and 
other  places  they  have  been  the  mean* 
of  bringing  many  to  the  knowledge  of 
the  truth.  In  Idaho  and  Montana, 
also,  the  Elders  have  been  laboring 
and  have  done  and  are  doing  a  good 
work  in  different  places  there,  ana 
they  report  excellent  results.  The  peo- 
ple are  listening  to  them,  and  furnish- 
ing them  with  places  where  they  can 
meet  and  preach  to  the  people.  In 
our  own  State  we  have  heard  of  the 
brethren  taking  hold  and  visiting  their 
neighbors  who  are  not  of  our  faith. 

There  is  a  class  of  people  in  Utah 
who'  think  what  they  do  not  know 
about  the  Mormons  and  their  doctrines 
is  not  worth  knowing,  and  they  are 
fill-/*  with  conceit  respecting  their 
knowledge  of  our  principles,  while  they 
are  densely  ignorant  concerning  us. 
That  which  they  do  know  is  of  so  shal- 
low a  character  that  it  deceives  them. 
They  sometimes  go  away  and  talk  to 
newspaper  people,  and  tell  what  they 
know,  and  how  long  they  have  re- 
sided here,  and  yet  they  really  do  not 
know  anything  about  us.  But  besides 
this  class  there  is  another,  composed 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


7 


of  honest  people  who  are  not  of  our 
faith — honest,  I  mean,  in  regard  to 
morality  and  in  their  conception  of  the 
truth.  A  man  may  be  a  very  honest 
man  financially,  and  yet  not  be  honest 
enough  to  receive  the  truth  of  heaven. 
It  is,  therefore,  no  impugnment  of  a 
man's  financial  honesty  to  talk  about 
his  not  being  honest  enough  to  re- 
ceive the  truth.  Some  of  the  brethren 
thought  they  could  do  a  good  work  in 
the  different  wards  by  visiting  those 
who  are  not  of  our  faith.  Where  this 
has  been  done,  the  reports  are  that  it 
has  been  attended  with  excellent  re- 
sults. Many  of  the  people  in  the  State 
have  read  our  works  with  pleasure, 
and  have  expressed  their  confidence 
in  their  truth. 

This  is  a  good  thing.  It  is  a  labor 
that  should  be  encouraged  among  us. 
Some  of  these  people  have  complained 
of  our  exclusiveness.  Of  course,  we. 
can  understand  why  we  are  exclusive. 
We  have  had  such  a  training  as  to 
make  us  to  a  great  extent  exclusive. 
They  have  had  cause  doubtless  for 
thinking  that  we  in  our  treatment  of 
them,  were  exclusive;  but  where  they 
have  been  brought  in  contact  with  our 
people,  especially  with  our  sisters,  the 
effects,  as  reported  to  us,  have  in- 
variably been  good.  We  have  felt  to 
encourage  the  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  the  Bishops  of  wards  in  this  labor, 
because  we  believe  it  will  be  attended 
with  most  excellent  effects,  and  many 
may  thus  be  brought  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth. 

In  California  the  work  has  been  pro- 
gressing also  in  a  very  satisfactory 
manner.  The  President  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission  wrote  a  letter  to  the 
First  Presidency  a  short  time  since, 
and  said  there  were  three  Elders  there 
that  would  like  to  have  their  wives 
sent  to  them,  as  they  thought  they 
could  do  a  good  work.  About  the 
same  time  we  received  a  letter  from 
the  European  Mission,  the  Presidency 
of  which  suggested  that  where  the 
Elders  could  take  their  wives  with 
them,  and  they  were  prudent  women, 
they  might  do  a  great  deal  of  good. 
Just  about  those  days  a  letter  came 
from  a  president  of  a  Stake,  saying 
there  was  a  young  couple  in  his  Stake 
who  were  about  to  be  married;  but 
the  young  man  had  been  called  on  a 
mission,  and  they  delayed  their  mar- 


riage till  they  could  ask  some  counsel. 
The  young  man  and  the  young  woman 
were  both  morally  and  physically 
capable  of  going  on  a  mission,  and 
they  had  sufficient  means  also.  The 
question  was  asked,  Would  it  be  right 
for  them  to  get  married,  and  for  the 
young  lady  to  accompany  her  hus- 
band? The  First  Presidency  wrote 
back,  "Yes,  if  she  is  such  a  young 
woman  as  you  describe;  let  her  be  sex. 
apart  as  a  missionary  and  go  with 
her  husband  and  preach  the  Gospel 
as  well  as  she  can."  We  said  the  sam& 
In  the  president  of  the  California  mis- 
sion; we  said,  "Yes,  if  these  wives  are 
prudent  women."  We  do  not  want 
unwise  women  sent  any  more  than 
unwise  men,  because  they  could  do 
more  injury  than  they  could  do  good. 
But  if  they  can  get  a  recommend  from 
their  Bishops  as  wise,  suitable  women, 
we  will  set  them  apart  and  send  them 
to  their  husbands,  if  their  husbands 
can  bear  the  expense  of  their  trans- 
portation. Since  then  two  other  ladies 
were  going  to  Europe,  and  the  appli- 
cation came  up  from  the  President  of 
the  Stake  and  his  counselors  to  know 
whether  they  could  not  go  in  the  ca- 
pacity of  missionaries.  They  were 
capable  young  ladies;  they  had  kin- 
dred in  Europe,  one  a  brother  and  the 
other  an  affianced,  and  the  question 
was,  what  should  be  done  about  them. 
We  sent  word  back,  "Yes,  if  they  .are 
the  kind  you  describe,  set  them  apart 
and  let  them  go  as  missionaries  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  as  far  as  they  can, 
to  their  own  sex  and  to  others  who 
will  listen  to  them."  It  seems  as 
though  the  Lord  is  preparing  the  way 
for  the  women  of  this  Church  to  do 
some  good  in  this  direction.  To  some 
lands  and  under  some  circumstances 
suitable  women  might  go  with  their 
husbands  as  missionaries  and  be  able 
to  do  a  great  deal  of  good. 

The  Presidency  of  the  European 
mission  wrote  to  us  of  several  sisters 
who  had  been  there  with  their  hus- 
bands, and  they  described  the  good 
they  had  done  and  the  good  influence 
they  had  carried.  It  was  illustrated 
by  a  conversation  that  was  had  a  short 
time  ago  at  one  of  our  social  gather- 
ings. Brother  George  D.  Pyper  and 
his  wife  had  been  East,  and  in  the 
branch  where  they  had  visited  there 
had  been  frequent  expressions  among 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  had  not  joined  the  Church 
to  this  effect:     "Well,  we  have  seen 
the  Mormon  Elders,  but  we  have  not 
seen  the  Mormon  women;   we  would 
like  to  see  some  Mormon  women,  and 
see    what    kind  of    people  they  are." 
There  was  one  woman  of  some  prom- 
inence that  had  not  joined  the  Church, 
though  her  husband  had;  but  she  had 
expressed  herself  several  times  in  this 
manner.      Sister    Pyper  visited  there, 
and  became  acquainted  with  this  lady, 
and  the  lady  was  so  pleased  at  meet- 
ing   one  of    our  sisters— an  intelligent 
woman,    and  a    woman  that  did  not 
look  as  thought  she  was  a  poor,  down- 
trodden   slave— that    she    entered  the 
Church.    No  doubt,  it  was  due  to  the 
fact    that    she    had  found  that  the 
women    were    as    intelligent,  as  pre- 
sentable   and    as    ladylike    in  their 
sphere  as  the  gentlemen  were  in  their 
sphere.     This  is  encouraging,  and  it 
no  doubt  will  enlarge  our  field  of  oper- 
ations to  a  very  great  extent.  There 
will  be  an  opportunity,  doubtless,  for 
women  who  are  capable  and  who  de- 
sire   to    do    good,  to    go    out,  under 
proper  conditions;  not  to  go  unattend- 
ed and  alone— that  would  not  be  pru- 
dent—but where  they  have  husbands 
who  are  going,  and  they  are  suitable 
in    other    respects,  it  would    seem  as 
though  there  would  be  no  impropriety 
in  their  going  and  bearing  their  testi- 
mony.    Of    course,    they    cannot  ad- 
minister   the    ordinances.     It    is  not 
their  province  to  officiate  in  the  ordin- 
ances  of   the   Gospel.     But  they  can 
bear  testimony;  they  can  teach;  the* 
can  distribute  tracts,  and  they  can  do 
a  great  many  things  that  would  as- 
sist in  the  propagation  of  the  Gospei 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  looking 
at  all  the  work  in  its  entirety,  have 
we  not  cause  to  glorify  God  this  day, 
at  this  Sixty-eighth  Annual  Confer- 
ence? Sixty-eight  years  the  Church 
has  been  organized.  We  look  back  to 
our  sorrows,  our  tribulations  and  that 
which  the  Saints  have  endured,  but 
for  those  who  have  been  faithful  to 
the  truth  there  is  no  sorrow  mingled 
with  our  contemplation  of  those  scenes, 
There  is  no  cause  to  regret  being 
steadfast  and  maintaining  our  integ- 
rity until  today.  And  how  does  the 
future    look?    Radiant    with  promise, 


bright    with    hope,  everything  to  en- 
courage us. 

We  have  our  trials  today  of  a  finan- 
cial character.    Our  people,  many  ot 
them,    are    unemployed.      In  conse- 
quence   of    this,  the  counsel  has  been 
given  to  not  send  the  Saints  here  from 
abroad,   but  rather  to  keen  them  in 
the  branches  until  they  get  groundea 
in  the  faith.    After  a  while,  when  they 
are  established  in  the  truth  and  are 
better  able  to  endure  the  trials  they 
will  have  to  meet  with  in  Zion,  they 
can    gather.    But    now    it  is  not  the 
voice    of    the    Spirit    that  the  Saints 
should  gather  from  the  nations  of  the 
earth  as  they  have  been  doing,  coming 
here  full  of  inexperience,  and  then  un- 
able to  endure  the  trials  that  they  have 
to  contend  with,  and  apostatize.  Let 
them    stay    in  their  branches,  and  if 
they  wish  to  apostatize  let  them  apos- 
tatize   there,    without    being    at  the 
trouble  and  expense  of  coming  to  Zion. 
In  this  way  we  may  raise  up  strong 
branches,  that  will  assist  the  Elders 
in  the  various  fields  of  labor,  and  sus- 
tain and  comfort  them.    This  is  the 
counsel    that    has    been  given  to  the 
Elders,  and  we  think  it  correct  coun- 
sel.   In  the  meantime  those  at  home 
can    be    strengthening  themselves  as 
best  they  can.    As  I  say,  we  are  pass- 
ing   through    trials  of  this  character. 
There  never  has  been  a  time  since  we 
have  been  in  these  mountains  that  we 
have  had  such  things  to  contend  with. 
In  the  early  days  there  was  scarcity 
of  comforts  and  of  money;  but  there 
was  no  debt.    Now  the  great  bulk  of 
the  people — that  is,  of  the  leading  peo- 
ple— are  in   debt.     The  most  prudent 
men    among    us  have  got  entangled. 
This    is    the  condition  of  the  people. 
Shall    we    remain    in  this  condition? 
President  Woodruff  says  he  hopes  not. 
Now  it  is  a  good  chance  to  prophesy; 
but  I  do  not  want  to  assume  that  role 
today.    I  feel  assured,  however,  that 
we  shall  emerge  from  these  financial 
troubles  just  as  we  have  from  other 
trials.    I  do  not  have  the  shadow  of  a 
doubt  in  my  mind  about  it.    But  I  do 
not  wish  to  say  what  I  feel,  for  I  do 
not  want  to  say  too  much  about  these 
things.     But   I   think  we   have  great 
cause    for    hope  and  encouragement. 
Looking  at  the  past,  and  remember- 
ing the  blessings  that  God  has  given 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


9 


to  us,  the  promises  He  has  made  to 
us,  and  the  deliverances  He  has 
wrought  our  for  us,  I  think  we  have 
cause  to  rejoice  today  and  to  put  our 
trust  in  Him.  He  will  bring  us  through 
if  we  will  only  serve  Him.  He  will 
teach  us  where  we  are  ignorant;  He 
will  give  us  knowledge,  and  knowl- 
edge is  power.  Because  there  is  knowl- 
edge among  the  people  is  what  makes 
this  Church  a  rjowerful  organization. 
The  Lord  has  given  unto  us  knowl- 
edge concerning  many  things. 

At  the  present  time  all  Europe  is 
preparing  for  war.  They  do  not  know 
what  may  arise  out  of  these  Chinese 
complications.  America  is  disturbea 
by  the  prospects  of  war  with  Spain. 
Capitalists  are  endeavoring  to  keep 
their  money  in  a  position  where  they 
can  handle  and  control  it.  A  general 
feeling  of  unrest  prevails  throughout 
the  nation.  Now,  as  far  as  we  are 
concerned,  while  we  share  to  a  certain 
extent  in  all  these  feelings  (for  we  are 
part  of  this  nation,  and  nothing  can 
happen  to  the  nation  that  will  not 
affect  us),  there  is  among  us  an  ab- 
sence of  fear,  a  feeling  of  rest,  an  ab- 
sence of  trepidation  concerning  the 
movements  of  the  nation,  and  a  senst 
of  security  that  I  believe  no  other  peo- 
ple on  the  earth  have.  The  reason  of 
it  is  that  we  know  that  God  doeth 
nothing,  except  He  revealeth  it  unto 
His  servants  the  Prophets.  We  know 
the  spirit  of  prophecy  is  in  our  midst, 
and  that  if  there  is  any  danger  threat- 
ening us  we  shall  be  prepared  for  it. 
The  Lord  will  inspire  His  servants 
and  His  people  so  that  they  will  not 
be  found  unprepared. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. God  bless  us  all  during  this  Con- 
ference; bless  every  man  that  shall 
speak,  and  inspire  him  with  the  Spirit 
and  power  of  God;  bless  every  one  that 
shall  listen  that  all  may  rejoice  to- 
gether and  be  mutually  edified;  which 
I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT    JOSEPH    P.  SMITH. 

Righteousness  brings  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual 
blessings — Some  protessing  to  ba  Saints  not  con- 
sistent. 

As  a  few  minutes  remain,  I  have  been 
requested  to  bear  my  testimony.  I 
think   I   can   safely  declare   that  the 


testimony  which  we  have  heard  this: 
morning  from  President  George  Q. 
Cannon  is,  from  first  to  last,  true;  and 
I  do  not  hesitate  to  believe  that  all 
this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints 
can  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the 
remarks  which  we  have  heard.  I  cer- 
tainly bear  my  testimony  to  these 
things;  for  I  not  only  know  by  ex- 
perience of  their  truth,  but  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  bears  record  of  it  to  my 
heart,  as  I  know  it  must  do  to  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  Lord  has 
sustained  His  people.  He  has  guided 
His  servants.  He  has  opened  up  our 
way,  and  from  time  to  time  has  lifted 
the  clouds  of  persecution  and  of  dark- 
ness that  have  lowered  over  oui 
heads,  and  caused  the  sunlight  of  joy 
and  truth  to  shine  down  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  us  in  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  and  has  given  us  of  His 
abundance;  for  He  has  made  the  earth 
fruitful  for  our  sake.  He  has  blessed 
us  abundantly  with  the  products  of 
the  earth  and  with  rich  return  for  our 
labors,  wherein  we  have  labored 
wisely  and  with  prudence  have  used 
the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  be- 
stowed upon  us.  Many  of  us  may 
have  been  unwise  in  the  management 
of  our  affairs,  and  because  of  this  un- 
wisdom we  today  suffer  the  results  of 
our  own  short-sightedness  and  folly. 
Where  this  has  been  the  case,  I  hope 
and  pray  that  we  may  profit  by  this 
experience  for  all  time  to  eo::ie,  and 
that  in  the  future  we  will  live  nearer 
unto  the  Lord,  that  we 'may  have  more 
abundantly  the  light  of  His  Spirit  to 
guide  us,  not  only  in  our  spiritual 
affairs,  but  also  in  all  temporal  affairs. 
The  work  that  we  are  engaged  in  is- 
not  designed  to  be  limited  by  the 
spiritual  necessities  of  the  people 
alone.  It  is  the  purpose  of  God  in 
restoring  the  Gospel  and  the  holy 
Priesthood,  not  only  to  benefit  man- 
kind spiritually,  but  also  to  benefit 
them  temporally.  The  Lord  has  ex- 
pressed this  many  times,  in  the  word 
that  He  gave  to  His  servant  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet;  He  designed  that 
His  people  should  become  the  richest 
of  all  people.  And  this  not  only  means* 
the  richest  of  all  people  in  heavenly 
gifts— in  spiritual  blessings  and  riches, 
but  it  also  means  that  the  people  of 
God  shall  be  the  richest  of  all  people 


IO 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  regard  to  temporal  matters,  li 
faithful  we  have  a  right  to  claim  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  labor 
of  our  hands,  our  temporal  labors. 
The  farmer  has  a  right  to  ask  the 
Lord  for  blessings  upon  his  farm,  upon 
the  labor  that  he  bestows  upon  it. 
He  has  a  right  to  claim  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  the  animals  that  are 
necessary  to  the  cultivation  of  his 
farm.  He  has  a  right  to  ask  God  to 
bless  the  grain  that  he  sows  and  the 
seeds  of  the  fruit  that  he  plant*,  hi 
the  soil.  It  is  his  privilege,  not  only 
to  ask  and  claim  these  blessings  a'  the 
hand  of  the  Lord,  but  it  is  his  right 
and  privilege  to  receive  blessings  from 
God  upon  his  labor,  upon  his  farm, 
and  upon  all  that  he  puts  his  hand 
unto  in  righteousness.  It  is  our  priv- 
ilege to  ask  God  to  remove  the  curse 
from  the  earth,  and  to  make  it  fruit- 
ful. If  we  will  live  that  we  shall  be 
entitled  to  His  favor,  and  that  we 
may  justly  and  righteously  clpim  the 
blessings  and  gifts  that  He  has  prom- 
ised unto  His  Saints,  then  that  which 
we  ask  will  be  given,  and  we  shall 
receive  and  enjoy  them  more  abund- 
antly. It  is  our  privilege  to  ask  God 
to  bless  the  elements  that  surround 
us  and  to  temper  them  for  our  good, 
and  we  know  He  will  hear  and  anrwer 
the  prayers  of  His  people,  ace-mling 
to  their  faith.  Read  the  Scriptures,  if 
we  believe  them,  and  the  testimonies 
that  are  there  borne  of  the  dealings 
of  God  with  ancient  Israel,  and  see  how 
God  blessed  the  people  when  they 
were  faithful  in  keeping  His  c  m- 
mandments.  The  earth  was  made 
fruitful  for  them.  Their  vines  did  not 
cast  their  fruit  before  their  time  Ihey 
were  free  from  mildew,  and  from 
rust,  and  from  the  devouring  insects, 
and  from  drouth,  and  from  every 
casualty  and  destructive  evil.  They 
were  prospered  in  their  outgoings  and 
in  their  incomings,  and  they  had 
abundance,  when  they  served  the 
Lord.  This  is  according  to  the  history 
that  has  been  written  of  the  dealings 
of  God  with  His  ancient  people.  They 
were  blessed  with  the  earlv  and  the 
latter  rains,  and  the  earth  was  made 
fruitful  for  them.  "When  from  Lcoes- 
sity  they  went  out  to  battle  against 
their  enemies,  their  enemies  fled  be- 
fore them  seven  ways,  as  the  Scrip- 
tures tell  us.    In  every  way  did  Goa 


bless  and  prosper  them,  and  made 
them  notable  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  But  when  they  forgot  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings;  when  they 
forgot  their  prayers,  and  became  re- 
bellious and  disobedient  to  the  laws 
and  requirements  of  God,  then  were 
the  rains  withheld,  and  the  earth  be- 
came dust  beneath  their  feet,  their 
vines  cast  their  fruit  before  their 
time;  they  yere  cursed  with  the  blight, 
and  with  the  mildew,  and  with  the 
rust,  and  with  the  grasshopper,  and 
with  the  devouring  insects,  until  the> 
were  brought  down  low  :u  poverty  ana 
in  distress.  The  Lord  felt  after  the 
people  in  ancient  times  in  this  way. 
(See  Deut.  28.) 

Now,  what  was  true  respecting 
God's  dealings  with  the  people  of 
Israel  in  ancient  days  is  true  ar.3  ap- 
plicable today. 

This  is  my  testimony  anil  1  believe 
this  would  be  the  testimony  of  every 
faithful  Latter-day  ?aint.  Every  man 
and  woman  who  has  labored  in  faith 
and  humility,  putting  their  trust  in 
the  Lord,  have  this  testimony  in  their 
hearts.  But  those  who  have  labored 
without  faith,  without  h>pr:.  without 
charity;  those  who  ha /a  not  put  their 
trust  in  the  Lord,  who  have  heevme 
worldly;  who  have  allowed  the  spirit 
of  skepticism  to  enter  into  th'-.ir  hearts; 
who  have  labored  ai  the  infidel  labors, 
without  regard  to  the  duties  that  men 
owe  to  God — such  .is  these  may  in- 
deed be  ba-ren  of  thifc  lrnowl.^lgtv  and 
testimony,  and  may  be  without  the 
consolation,  assurance  and  strength 
this  testimony  gives. 

I  am  not  unaware  of  the  fact  that 
there  is  more  or  less  infidelity  and 
skepticism  in  the  hearts  of  the  people, 
i  am  aware  of  the  fact  that  some  arc 
indifferent  to  the  duties  that  devolve 
upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
have  exhibitons  of  this  spirit  of  infi- 
delity, of  ridicule  and  of  recklessness 
day  after  day  as  we  walk  along  the 
streets  and  as  we  observe  the  con- 
duct of  men.  We  see  it  upon  the  Sab- 
bath day,  when  men  professing  to  be 
members  of  the  Churcn  should  be  but 
are  not  honoring  the  Sabbath  and 
keeping  it  holy.  We  see  it  when  we 
take  into  consideration  the  require- 
ments the  Lord  has  made  of  His  peo- 
ple with  regard  to  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom and  contrast  the  same  with  Iboir 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


1 1 


doings.    As  we  pass  up  and  down  the 
streets,  and  as  we  »o  from  place  to 
place  we  see  how  iitt'.e  regard  is  paid 
by  a  certain  class  to  tliis  instruction 
that  has  been  given  l<>  the  people  to 
make  them  Saints.     We  only  need  to 
go    to    the    mercantile  houses  in  tht- 
country  and  enquire  there  as  to  the 
amount  of  useless  and  hurtful  things 
which  are  imported  into  the  country 
and  sold  day  by  day  and  year  fov  year 
to  the  people.    Some  of  our  pretended 
pious  people,  a  few  years  ago,  Avert? 
shocked  and  horrified   by  seeing  the 
symbol  of  the  All-Seeing  Eye  find  the 
words  "Holiness  to  the  Lord"  in  gilt 
letters    over    the  front  of  Zion's  Co- 
operative Mercantile  Institution.  Es- 
pecially was  this  the  case  with  sonic 
of  our  brethren  when  they  found  these 
letters   over  the  drug  department  of 
Z.  C.  M.  I.    Why  was  it?    Why  some 
of  these  pious(?)  Mormons  round  that 
Z.  C.  M.  I.,  under  rhe  symbol  of  the 
All-seeing  Eye  and  the  sacred  words, 
"Holiness  to  the  Lord,'-  sold  tea  and 
coffee,  and  tobacco,  and  other  things 
possibly  that  Latter-dav  Saints  ought 
not    to    use;    and    at  the  drug  store, 
Z.  C.  M.  I.  kept    liquors    of  various 
kinds  for  medicinal  purposes.    It  was 
terribly  shocking  to  some  of  the  L&t- 
ter-day  Saints  that  under  these  holy 
words  liquor  should  be  kept  for  sale. 
Has  it  ever  injured  me,  in  any  sense 
of  the  word,  because  Z.  C.  M.  I.  drug 
store  kept  liquor  for  .jale?  Has  it  made 
me  a  drunkard?    Have  £  been  under 
-the  necessity  of  guzzling  liquid  poison? 
Have    I    made    myself  a  sot  because 
liquor  was  kept  for  sale  by  Z  C.  M.  I.? 
I  am  not  the  worse  for  it,  thank  the 
Lord.    And  who  else  is?    No  one,  ex- 
cept those  pious  Mormon st  '•')  who  in 
open  day  or  under  the  cover  of  night 
would  go  into  the  drug  store  and  buy 
liquor  to  drink.    They  are  the  ones,  of 
all  others,  who  of  course  would  be  h<  r- 
rified  at  the  fact  that  liquor  was  sold 
in    a    place  of     merchandise.  Those 
who  were  the  most  horrified  at  seeing 
the  All-Seeing  Eye  and   "Holiness  to 
the  Lord"  over  the  front  door  of  Z.  C. 
M.  I.,  I  will  guarantee  are  the  ones 
that  have  bought  the  most  tea  and 
coffee,    tobacco    and    whisky  there. 
Anybody    will    apostatize    with  that 
sort  of  a  spirit,  if  they  do  not  repen\. 
of  it,  because  it  is  a  sordid,  bigoted, 


short-sighted  and  .hypocritical  spirit. 
Latter-day  Saints  cannot  afford  to  in- 
dulge in  such  actions  or  conduct  as 
this,  nor  to  harbor  this  spirit  in  their 
hearts.  It  does  not  matter  to  me  how 
much  tea  and  coffee  Z.  O.  M.  I.  sells, 
so  long  as  I  do  not  buy  it.  If  I  do  not 
drink  it  am  I  not  all  right  ?  And  if 
the  poor  creature  that  wants  it  can 
get  it  there,  that  ought  to  satisfy  hiin. 
If  he  could  not  get  it  there,  he  would 
not  patronize  Z.  C.  M.  T,  at  all,  but 
would  go  somewhere  else  to  deal. 

But  the  object  I  had  in  view  !n  re- 
ferring to  this  matter  was  to  bring  to 
your  minds  how  reckless  some  of  the 
people  are  with  regard  to  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God,  and  how  many 
of  us  will  strain  at  a  gnat  and  swallow 
a  camel;  how  many  of  us  will  criticise 
and  find  fault  with  that  which  exists 
only  in  our  own  imagination,  while 
we  ourselves  are  guilty  of  a  great 
deal  worse  things  than  that  which 
we  criticise  and  condemo. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  people,  and 
although  many  of  us  are  not  living 
up  to  our  privileges  and  are  not  worthy 
to  claim  the  fullness  of  the  blessings 
of  the  Gospel  upon  our  heads,  T  pra> 
God  that  He  will  forgive  our  sins, 
that  He  will  bear  patiently  with  us, 
that  He  will  extend  to  us  long  suffer- 
ing and  forgiveness  and  the  assistance 
of  His  Holy  Spirit,  that  whereas  to- 
day we  are  beset  with  weaknesses 
and  imperfections  and  we  come  far 
short.  we  may  in  time  im- 
prove, repent  of  our  sins,  and  become 
regenerated,  that  we  may  enjoy  the 
fullness  of  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel, 
which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 
Jesus,  I  my  cross  have  taken. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


2  p.  m. 

Opening  hymn  sung  by  the  choir: 

"High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled, 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 
It  waves  to  all  the  world." 
Prayer  by  Elder  Anthony  Ivins. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 
"Awake,  ye  Saints  of  God,  awake! 

Call  on  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer, 
That  He  will  Zion's  bondage  break, 
And    bring   to    naught   the  fowler's 
snare." 


I  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

Necessity  for  Divine  assistance — Leading  object  of 
our  present  life — The  Saints  should  be  progres- 
sive— The  United  Order. 

I  take  pleasure  in  occupying  this 
position  a  short  time,  and  with  the  aid 
of  your  prayers  and  the  exercise  of 
your  faith,  I  would  like  to  say  some- 
thing- that  will  prove  of  mutual  benefit. 
It  is  the  privilege  of  Latter-clay 
Saints  who  have  entered  into  cove- 
nants with  the  Lord,  who  has  revealed 
Himself  in  these  lattsr  times,  to  con- 
stantly improve,  and  especially  under 
circumstances  of  the  present  where 
we  assemble  together  and  can  exercise 
our  faith  in  the  interest  of  those  who 
address  us.  And  no  Latter-day 
Saints  should  withdraw  from  an  as- 
semblage of  this  character  without 
having  received  something  that  will 
be  of  importance  in  the  future  scenes 
of  their  lives.  In  and  of  ourselves  we 
cannot  possibly  comply  with  all  the 
commandments  that  God  has  given 
unto  us.  Jesus  himself  could  not  with- 
out divine  aid  from  His  Father  ac- 
complish His  work.  He  said  on  one 
occasion,  "I  can  of  mine  own  self  do 
nothing,  as  I  hear  I  judge  and  my 
judgment  is  just  because  I  seek  not 
my  own  will  but  the  will  of  the  Fath- 
er who  sent  me."  And  we,  if  it  was 
necessary  for  Him,  our  Lord,  to  have 
divine  assistance,  will  fmd  it  all  the 
more  important  to  receive  His  as- 
sistance. And  in  every  circumstance 
and  condition  surrounding  tru»  Latter- 
day  Saints,  while  in  the  performance 
of  their  duties,  they  are  entitled  to 
supernatural  aid  from  the  Holy  Spirit, 
to  help  in  the  various  conditions  sur- 
rounding them,  and  in  the  duties  that 
they  are  required  to  perform. 

It  is  a  mighty  and  glorious  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged,  and  its  bene- 
fits, so  far  as  we  accomplish  the  la- 
bors assigned  us,  are  attended  with 
the  highest  advantages  to  ourselves. 
I  cannot  imagine  anything  ihat  is  so 
vastly  important  as  to  work  for  and 
obtain  one's  own  individual  exalta- 
tion ond  glory.  That  undoubtedly  Is 
one  great  purpose  for  which  we  came 
into  the  world.  When  we  lived  in  the 
other  life  we  had  no  doubt  some  under- 
standing with  reference  to  our  duties 
in  this  life  when  we  were  permitted 
to    come    to    this    our  second  estate. 


And  very  likely  we  put  ourselves  under 
certain  obligations  that  we  would  dis- 
charge certain  duties  devolving  upon 
us  when  we  came  here  into  our  sec- 
ond estate.  And  we  had  rendered  our- 
selves worthy  to  come  upon  this  earth 
for  the  purpose  of  securing  those 
blessings  that  could  only  be  obtained 
by  observing  the  laws  pertaining  to 
our  present  estate.  There  are  many 
important  things  required  at  our 
hands,  and  many  things  which  we 
can  do,  when  assisted  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  which  may  at  times  seem 
almost  Impossible  to  accomplish,  and 
no  man  or  woman  should  be  discour- 
aged when  they  feel  that  they  cannot 
complete  what  they  would  like  to  per- 
form, but  we  all  should  do  what  we 
can  toward  carrying  out  the  grand 
work  for  which  we  are  here.  Paul 
said,  he  pressed  forward  toward  the 
mark  in  the  high  calling  of  God  in 
Christ  Jesus.  Now  this  is  a  very  good 
principle  for  us  to  keep  constantly  be- 
fore us  day  by  day,  month  by  month 
and  year  by  year.  We  should  labor 
for  perfection  so  far  as  possible,  and 
seek  to  go  onward.  There  is  no  man 
or  woman  who  can  stand  still  any 
great  length  of  time.  In  this  path 
over  which  we  are  moving  we  are  very 
likely  to  go  backward  if  we  undertake 
to  stand  still  or  act  indifferently.  We 
must  push  forward,  because  as  the 
Church  moves  on,  it  is  very  evident 
that  things  of  a  more  difficult  char- 

'  r  are  occurring  constantly,  and  we 
will  find  it  far  from  easy  to  overcome 
♦hem.  Unless  we  improve  as  we  move 
along  we  will  find  it  very  difficult  to 
magnify  our  callings  and  to  perform 
the  work  required  at  our  hands. 
Latter-day  Saints  should  not  permit 
themselves  to  stand  still.  It  is  a  priv- 
ilege we  have  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
enjoy  His  spirit  in  our  labors,  but 
many  of  the  people  lose  that  portion 
of  happiness  that  they  might  enjoy 
because  of  not  reflecting  seriously 
upon  their  duties  and  acting  wisely 
and  prudently. 

We  are  told  that  the  Lord  will  re- 
veal unto  our  minds  things  past, 
things  present,  and  things  to  come. 
There  is  a  certain  amount  of  qualifica- 
tion that  could  be  had  by  becoming 
possessed  of  a  knowledge  of  things 
that  are  past;  that  is  to  say,  in 
reference    to    ourselves,  to  the  things 


PRESIDENT  LOREAZO  SNOtt. 


13 


we  have  done  in  the  past — those  duties 
imposed  upon  us.  There  is  a  satisfac- 
tion and  an  enjoyment  in  such  reflec- 
tions. And  then  when  we  reflect  upon 
the  future,  and  the  exaltation  that  the 
XiOrd  proposes  to  bestow  upon  us  there 
is  joy  in  that.  There  is  great  enjoy- 
ment to  be  had  in  having  done  right  in 
the  past  and  meditating  upon  the 
fact,  and  feeling  that  we  are  doing 
right  now,  because  it  is  the  privilege 
of  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  know 
when  he  is  doing  that  which  pertains 
to  the  things  of  the  Lord.  If  our  past 
conduct  has  been  such,  and  our  pres- 
ent conduct  is  such  that  we  will  be 
entitled  to  receive  glory  and  exalta- 
tion, and  have  our  bodies  free  from 
•disease  and  death,  and  be  crowned 
with  immortal  glory  in  the  midst  of 
-our  wives,  children  and  friends, 
worlds  without  end,  these  are  contem- 
plations which  cause  us  to  enjoy  our- 
selves. This  is  the  way  Latter-day 
Saints  should  live.  At  present  a  great 
■deal  of  trouble,  anxieties  and  vexa- 
tions are  experienced  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  but  we  want  to  overcome 
these  things  and  be  qualified  for  the 
important  duties  required  at  our  hands. 
The  man  who  is  sick  is  disqualified 
to  act  in  things  required  of  a  healthy 
man.  There  is  this  privilege  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint  should  seek  to 
•enjoy,  to  know  positively  that  his  work 
is  accepted  of  God.  I  am  afraid  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  not  much  better 
and  perhaps  they  are  worse  than  other 
people  if  they  do  not  have  this  knowl- 
edge and  seek  to  do  right. 

Paul  was  caught  up  to  the  third 
heaven,  and  he  heard  and  saw  things 
that  were  of  the  highest  advantage  to 
him,  and,  although  he  was  not  per- 
mitted to  say  what  he  saw  and  heard 
there,  on  account  of  the  hardness  of 
the  hearts  of  the  people,  we  can  see 
the  effects  of  it  in  his  teachings  and 
writings  in  that  day.  Paul  said:  "Let 
this  mind  be  in  you,  which  was  also  in 
Christ  Jesus,  who,  being  in  the  form 
of  God,  thought  it  not  robbery  to  be 
equal  with  God."  Well,  that  was  an 
extraordinary  expression  for  Paul  to 
make  at  that  time,  but  there  was  some- 
thing in  it.  John  says:  "Beloved, 
now  are  we  the  sons  of  God,  and  it 
doth  not  yet  appear  what  we  shall  be, 
but  we  know  that  when  He  shall  ap- 
pear   we    shall    be  like  Him,  for  we 


shall  see  Him  as  He  is,  and  every  man 
that  hath  this  hope  in  him  purifies 
himself,  even  as  He  is  pure." 

Every  man  having  this  hope  in  him 
purifies  himself.  There  then  naturally 
arises  a  determination  to  work  for  that 
high  and  noble  position,  to  work  foi 
those  wonderful  promises  made, 
^here  is  an  inducement  to  pursue  a 
course  of  righteousness. 

In  this  system  of  religion  that  you 
and  I  have  received  there  is  something 
grand  and  glorious,  and  something 
new  to  learn  every  day,  that  is  of 
great  value.  And  it  is  not  only  our 
privilege  but  it  is  necessary  that  we 
receive  these  things  and  gather  these 
new  ideas.  This  Church,  in  its  travels 
from  the  beginning,  has  passed 
through,  as  was  told  by  President 
Cannon  this  morning,  the  most  severe 
trials  which  tried  the  heart  and  soul 
of  every  man  and  woman  in  it.  Now 
if  we  had  not  been  pretty  fair  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  the  past  we-  could  not 
have  done  as  well  as  we  have,  and  we 
could  not  have  looked  back  with  so 
much  pleasure  on  what  we  have  ac- 
complished. When  we  get  into  the 
other  life  and  look  back  upon  our  past 
s,  which  we  will  undoubtedly  un- 
derstand, some  of  our  actions  will  be 
of  the  highest  pleasure  to  reflect  upon, 
and  will  add  to  our  enjoyment  in  the 
future  life.  For  instance,  Abraham, 
hen  he  reflects  upon  what  he  ac- 
complished in  this  life,  when  in  obedi- 
ence to  the  command  of  God  he  took 
his  only  son,  through  whom  he  had 
been  promised  glorious  blessings,  up 
on  the  high  mountain  and  was  about 
to  sacrifice  him.  The  Lord  praised 
him  for  doing  this.  Now  if  Abraham 
had  not  been  faithful  for  some  time  be- 
fore this  happened  he  would  not  have 
been  able  to  accomplish  this  thing.  We 
ought  to  improve  ourselves  and  move 
faster  toward  the  point  of  perfection. 
It  is  said  that  we  cannot  be  perfect. 
Jesus  has  commanded  us  to  be  perfect 
even  as  God,  the  Father,  is  perfect. 
It  is  our  duty  to  try  to  be  perfect,  and 
it  is  our  duty  to  improve  each  day, 
and  look  upon  our  course  last  week 
and  do  things  better  this  week;  do 
things  better  today  than  we  did  them 
yesterday,  and  go  on  and  on  from  one 
degree  of  righteousness  to  another. 
Jesus  will  come  by  and  by,  and  ap- 
pear in  our  midst,  as  He  appeared  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  day  when  upon  the  earth  among 
the  Jews,  and  He  will  eat  and  drink 
with  us  and  talk  to  us,  and  explain 
the  mysteries  of  the  Kingdom,  and 
tell  us  things  that  are  not  lawful  to 
talk  about  now. 

We  are  going  back  to  Jackson 
county,  Missouri,  one  of  these  days. 
Now  if  it  was  proper  to  wish  it  I  would 
r.ot  care  if  it  was  tomorrow,  if  word 
should  come  for  us  to  go  back  to 
Jackson  county  and  build  up  a  great 
city  there.  The  day  will  come  when 
Latter-day  Saints  will  be  selected — all 
may  not  be  called  at  once,  but  those 
who  are  worthy  will  be  called.  There 
will  be  no  poverty  in  that  day.  There 
will  be  plenty  of  food,  clothing  and 
other  necessaries  of  life;  and  the 
father  who  has  a  family,  if  called 
suddenly  to  depart  this  life,  will 
know  that  his  wife  and  children  will 
be  taken  care  of,  that  provision  will 
be  made  for  their  sustenance  and  com- 
fort. But  this  is  the  United  Order  that 
we  sometimes  hear  mentioned,  but 
the  time  perhaps  has  not  yet  come  to 
establish  it.  But  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  never  be  satisfied  with  any  other 
arrangement  that  might  be  proposed. 
The  nations  of  the  earth  have  for  a 
long  time  been  trying  to  establish 
some  principle  by  which  they  can  be 
financially  sustained,  united  and  live 
in  peace,  but  have  not  succeeded. 
But  the  Lord  has  revealed  a  principle 
clearly  and  definitely  so  that  there 
will  oe  no  mistake  about  it.  The  sys- 
tem will  bring  financial  union  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  will  be  sat- 
isfied with  it  as  we  are  now  with  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  It  will  suit 
us.  It  is  something  that  is  natural. 
And  then  you  and  I  will  have  no 
trouble  about  our  children's  temporal 
welfare.  This  will  take  place  and  who- 
ever goes  to  Jackson  county  will  meet 
with  that  sympathy  and  friendship 
that  were  not  met  with  in  early  days, 
and  because  of  Ihe  absence  of  which 
the  people  were  allowed  to  be  driven 
out. 

These  are  things  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  ;ind  fcr  every  man  and  woman 
to  think  about,  and  we  should  cum- 
m.-nt'  t->  prepare  and  fit  ourselves  (Vr 
the  United  Order.  As  far  as  spiritual 
things  are  concerned  we  are  pretty 
well  united,  but  when  it  comes  to 
temporalities  we  often  differ.    But  you 


will  see  the  day,  if  you  live  properly, 
observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom  a»id  *o 
that  which  is  required,  you  wnl  go 
back  to  Jackson  county,  many  of  you 
whom  I  am  addressing  this  afternoon. 
I  am  sure  of  this. 

God  bless  you  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  also  President  Woodruff,  the  most 
remarkable  man  that  dwells  on  the 
face  of  the  earth,  and  whom  the  Lord 
has  most  wonderfully  blessed  during 
all  the  scenes  of  life.  It  is  grand  and 
glorious  to  think  what  the  Lord  has 
accomplished  with  Brother  Woodruff, 
and  with  the  Saints  generally.  God 
bless  you,  is  my  prayer  continually, 
Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 
The  need  of  inspiration — The  true  pjth  of  duty. 

It  is  a  source  of  pleasure  to  me  to 
once  more  meet  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  General  Conference,  and  1 
hope  that  what  shall  be  spoken  here 
this  afternoon  may  be  for  our  mutual 
benefit.  It  has  ever  been  my  desire 
in  addressing  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  my  mind  might  be  lighted  up  with 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I 
realize  that,  in  teaching  the  people, 
unless  the  speaker  is  inspired  of  our 
Father  in  Heaven  it  is  impossible  to 
say  anything  that  will  be  of  benefit  or 
worth  to  the  Saints.  I  have  nothing 
particular  upon  my  mind  that  I  desire 
to  talk  upon  in  addressing  you  this  af- 
ternoon. I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks 
of  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  thus 
far  during  this  Conference,  and  I  hopt= 
that  during  its  continuance  we  will  be 
blessed  with  the  light  and  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  from  on  high.  I  rejoice 
in  the  many  testimonies  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  the  Gospel  that  I  have  re- 
ceived. I  rejoice  in  the  evidence  that 
comes  to  me  from  time  tO'  time,  in 
my  labors,  of  the  goodness  of  God  to 
me  and  also  to  you — to  one  and  all.  I 
find,  in  mingling  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  all  who  are  striving  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
are  abundantly  blessed,  and  they  rea- 
lize that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  with 
them,  and  rejoice  in  their  hearts  be- 
cause of  His  goodness  toward  them. 

When  we  stop  to  contemplate  the 
great  hardships  that  our  fathers  and 
mothers  have  had  to  pass  through  in 
establishing  the  work  of  God  in  the 
earth,  it  should  cause  us  to  be  thank- 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


*5 


ful  because  of  our  comparatively  pleas- 
ant surroundings.  I  sometimes  feel 
that  we  know  but  little  of  their  sor- 
rows, and  of  what  they  have  had  to 
endure.  When  we  realize  how  easy 
it  is  for  us  to  live  we  cannot  begin  to 
imagine  what  hardships  they  have  had 
to  pass  through.  I  am  truly  grate- 
ful that  I  have  not  been  called  to  en- 
dure such  trials.  I  never  had  a  desire, 
myself,  to  have  experiences  of  this 
kind.  We  sometimes  meet  people  who 
say  they  would  like  to  have  witnessed 
the  trials  of  the  early  Saints  and  taken 
a  part  in  them,  but  I  have  no  wish  to 
nominate  myself  for  a  martyr.  I  tell 
you  what  I  do  desire;  it  is  to  be  tested 
and  tried  only  so  far  as  is  necessary 
to  qualify  me  for  the  duties  which 
have  been  imposed  upon  me,  and  to 
gain  an  exaltation  in  the  presence  of 
my  Heavenly  Father. 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  from  my 
earliest  recollections  I  have  had  to  lis- 
ten to  the  servants  of  the  Lord  plead- 
ing, with  very  little  success,  with  the 
people  to  live  their  religion.  My  own 
counsel  and  advice  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  to  do  their  duties  to- 
wards God  and  to  keep  the  command- 
ments that  He  has  given  them.  Not- 
withstanding the  brethren  have  labored 
hard  to  teach  the  Saints  their  duties, 
and  have  frequently  repeated  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  unto  this  peo- 
ple, many  of  them  have  not  yet  learned 
the  necessity  of  performing  their  duties. 
I  believe  if  I  were  to  call  for  those  peo- 
ple here  today  who  have  been  taught 
and  believe  all  the  revelations  contained 
in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
to  be  the  inspired  words  of  God,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
God,  nearly  all  who  are  in  this  congre- 
gation would  raise  their  hands  and  say 
they  knew  these  things  to  be  true.  But 
if  I  were  to  call  for  all  those  who  had 
been  absolutely  honest  with  God  in 
keeping  His  commandments,  I  am 
afraid  a  majority  of  the  congregation 
would  not  raise  their  hands.  If  I  were 
to  ask  for  those  who  observed  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  and  who  did  not 
spend  a  portion  of  their  means  for  to- 
baco  and  liquor,  and  who  paid  an  hon- 
est tithing  to  the  Lord,  one-half  of 
those  here  today  would,  I  am  afraid, 
fail  to  lift  their  hands.  A  great 
majority  would  answer  that  they  had 
received  their  endowments  in  the  tem- 


ple of  God,  that  they  had  entered  into 
covenants  with  the  Lord.  They  know 
the  covenants  that  they  have  made 
with  our  Heavenly  r  ather,  and  how 
many  are  there  who  carry  out  these 
covenants  that  they  have  entered  into? 
I  have  heard  a  great  many  people,  in 
my  time,  pray  unto  the  Lord  for  bless- 
ings. And  they  would  dedicate  their 
time  and  strength  and  all  that  they 
possessed  for  the  onward  advancement 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  but  when  they 
are  called  upon  to  help  the  Church  in 
a  financial  way  they  are  very  careful 
to  keep  their  means  hid  from  the  Lord— 
they  keep  it  for  their  own  advancement. 
We  are  not  ready  and  willing  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  but  we  are 
ready  and  willing  to  carry  out  our  own 
wishes.  We  do  not  ask  what  it  is  de- 
sired that  we  should  do,  but  generally 
suit  ourselves  as  to  what  we  would  like 
to  do.  Is  this  right?  No,  it  is  not.  I 
feel  that  there  is  plenty  of  room  for  im- 
provement, and  we  should  improve. 

We  heard  this  morning  about  some 
of  the  trials  and  tribulations  our  fath- 
ers had  to  pass  through,  and  President 
Cannon  said  he  expected  to  see  the  day 
when  our  financial  troubles  would  van- 
ish, as  our  other  troubles  have  dis- 
appeared. I  have  faith  that  all  those 
who  have  been  honest  with  God  in  the 
past  will  scon  be  delivered  from  the 
bondage  of  debt.  I  expect  that  a  great 
many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be- 
fore the  clay  of  that  deliverance,  will 
be  made  to  remember  the  covenants 
which  they  have  made  with  the  Lord. 
They  have  not  been  honest  with  the 
Lord.  As  one  of  the  inspired  men  of 
old  said,  the  people  had  robbed  the 
Lord  in  their  tithes  and  offerings..  I 
say  when  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
pay  an  honest  tithing  unto  the  Lord 
there  will  be  no  need  of  talking  about 
debts  and  of  being  in  the  bondage  of 
debt.  But  the  trouble  is  we  do  not  do 
it.  Scores  of  men  compromise  with 
the  Lord  on  the  basis  of  10  cents  on 
the  dollar,  and  they  rob  Him  of  the 
other  90  cents.  They  discount  their 
debts  to  the  Lord  25  per  cent.  Why,  a 
man  would  be  ashamed  of  himself  to 
go  into  Z.  C.  M.  I.  and  ask  it  to  knock 
off  25  per  cent  from  his  bill,  but  with 
God  they  discount  their  bills  10  cents, 
25  cents  and  50  cents  on  the  dollar, 
and  then  call  themselves  honest.  I 
wish  the  Lord  would  inspire  us  with 


1 6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


3  determination  to  be  honest,  and  that 
the  brethren  could  inspire  this  feeling 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  so  that 
we  would  all  try  to  be  upright  witl 
the  Lord.  A  man  will  say,  "I  owe  m> 
neighbor  and  must  pay  him  before  1 
■can  settle  my  tithing."  Well,  I  know  i 
owe  lots  of  my  neighbors,  and  they  try 
to  collect  from  me.  But  I  owe  God  an 
honest  tithing;.  He  has  given  me  a 
testimony  of  Jesus  and  a  hope  of  eter- 
nal life,  and  I  intend  to  pay  Him  first 
and  my  neighbors  afterwards.  It  Is 
our  duty  to  settle  with  the  Lord  first, 
and  I  intend  to  do  it,  with  the  help  of 
my  Heavenly  Father.  And  I  want 
to  say  to  you,  if  you  will  be  honest 
-with  the  Lord,  paying  your  tithing  and 
^keeping  His  commandments,  He  will 
not  only  bless  you  with  the  light  and 
inspiration  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  but  you 
will  be  blessed  in  dollars  and  cents, 
you  will  be  enabled  to  pay  your  debts, 
and  the  Lord  will  pour  out  temporal 
blessings  upon  you  in  great  abund- 
ance. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  us  by 
the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit  always, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
'Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 

Early  Church  experiences— Revelations  of  the  Gos- 
pel—Faithful payment  of  tithes— New  wine  in  old 
bottles— Destiny  of  our  children— A  work  for  all 
to  do. 

I  esteem  it  a  very  precious  favor  to 
be  privileged  to  meet  with  the  Saints 
In  their  general  Conference;  indeed,  at 
all  times  in  their  assemblages;  and  be- 
ing called  upon  to  speak  to  you  thia 
afternoon,  I  greatly  desire  that  meas- 
ure of  the  Spirit  that  will  enable  me 
to  speak  to  your  edification,  as  I  re- 
alize that  without  it  our  time  will  be 
unprofitably  spent.  We  have  had, 
since  the  opening  of  this  Conference, 
a  great  deal  of  precious  instructions, 
and  recalling  of  past  circumstances  to 
refresh  our  minds  with  things  that  are 
important  and  profitable  unto  us. 

I  was  thinking,  while  listening  to 
the  former  speakers,  how  it  was  with 
us  in  the  beginning  of  this  work.  Peo- 
ple that  are  born  into  the  Church  now, 
enter  into  the  various  temporal  pur- 
suits, such  as  have  been  spoken  ot 
by  previous  speakers,  and  they  seem 
to  think  the  duty  of  paying  tithing 
is  simply  *a  matter  of  convenience.  Out 


youngsters  born  in  the  Church  now, 
a  good  many  of  them,  do  not  enter 
into  the  spirit  of  this  work  as  it  was 
entertained  in  the  beginning. 

Now  my  mind  is  carried  back  to  the 
time  when  the  Gospel  came  to  me  and 
to  my  kindred,  in  the  state  of  Massa 
chusetts,  in  the  year  1838,     when  1 
embraced  it.  The  way  we  looked  upon 
these  things  was  somewhat    on  thia 
wise:    We    were  willing  to  have  our 
names  cast  out  as  evil.      If    we  had 
any  earthly  substance     at      all  ws, 
were  willing  to  lay  it  upon  the  altai 
of  sacrifice  for  the  Lord,  who  gave  it 
to  us.     We  dedicated  it  unto  Him  foi- 
the  establishment  of  His  Church  and 
kingdom.     We  did  not  stop  there.  The 
law  of  tithing  had  not  been  revealed  at 
that  time;  but,  in  addition  to  the  good 
name  that  we  held  among  our  friends 
and  neighbors,  we  gave  a,ll    that  we 
had  and  then    we     placed  ourselves 
upon  the  altar  with  whatever  we  had, 
or  should  have,  to    be     given    to  the 
Lord  in  consideration  of  the  blessed 
Gospel  that  he  had  revealed  to  us.  We 
felt  that  this  was  our  reasonable  duty, 
as  well  as  our  acceptable  service.  It 
was  with  that  spirit  that  people  joined 
the  Church  in  those  days  when  the 
Gospel  was  presented  to  them.    It  was 
in  those  times  that  Presidents  Wood- 
ruff and  Snow  and  others  embraced 
the  Gospel,  when  it  was  first  preached 
among  the  people.      We  gave  every- 
thing to  the  Lord,  feeling  that  it  was 
not  our  own,  but  belonged  to  Him,  to 
do  just  as  He  wished  with  it.  We 
started  in  to  keep  the  commandments 
and  were  baptized  for  the  remission 
of  our  sins,  and  we  received  the  Holy 
Ghost  as  a  Comforter  throughout  our 
future  lives;  and  then,  when  we  came 
to  that,  oh!  how  we    felt     paid  for 
everything  .that  we  had  done,  and  for 
every  sacrifice  we  had  made! 

I  remember  well  the  first  testimony 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  was  given  to 
me,  in  the  first  blessing  of  healing  that 
was  conferred  upon  me  when  I  had 
been  laid  up  with  sickness  for  a  long 
time.  It  was  between  Grand  Prairie 
and  Missouri,  during  a  snow  storm, 
such  as  we  had  last  Sunday,  with  from 
four  to  six  inches  of  snow  on  the 
ground.  I  was  traveling  on  foot  to 
Missouri.  I  recollect,  on  that  blessed, 
snowy  day,  how  glorious  all  things 
were  to  me.      Although  at  this  time 


ELDER  FRANKIN  D.  RICHARDS 


17 


the  Prophet  had  been  put  in  prison, 
and  about  thirty  of  the  brethren  were 
also  imprisoned,  it  was  revealed  to 
me  that  this  was  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  God  was  going  to 
bring'  it  out  triumphantly.  I  knew 
the  Gospel  was  true,  although  I  had 
not  yet  seen  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  Lord  revealed  it  to  me, 
and  I  knew  that  Brother  Joseph  was 
a  Prophet,  not  by  man's  testimony, 
but  in  the  same  way  that  Peter  knew 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  the 
Savior,  when  the  Lord  asked,  "But 
whom  say  ye  that  I  am?"  and  Peter 
answered,  "Thou  art  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God."  And  Christ  said, 
"Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed 
it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is 
in  heaven."  I  had  prayed  to  God  for 
a  knowledge  of  this  Gospel,  and  when 
I  received  this  blessing  I  felt  that  if  I 
owned  the  world  I  would  willingly 
give  it  to  the  Lord  for  the  further- 
ance of  His  work.  When  we  received 
the  Gospel  and  the  testimony  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  we  realized  that  we  had 
indeed  found  the  "Pearl  of  Great 
Price,"  and  the  weaver  of  God  was 
upon  us  and  in  our  hearts.  How 
glorious  it  was  to  listen  to  the  inspired 
men  in  that  day,  expounding  the 
Scriptures  and  explaining  the  prophe- 
cies made  by  Daniel  about  the  stone 
being  cut  out  without  hands.  We  en- 
tertained no  idea  of  the  circumstances 
that  would  attend  the  rolling  forth  of 
that  stone  spoken  of  by  Daniel,  which 
was  to  roll  forth  and  fill  the  whole 
earth.  We  were  but  few  in  number 
then,  but  have  now  lived  to  see  the 
Church  grow  from  a  few  hundred  to 
some  250,000  souls. 

The  law  of  tithing  was  not  revealed 
at  that  time,  but  we  were  commanded 
to  carry  on  the  work  with  our  means. 
The  Temple  at  Kirtland  was  built  in 
this  way.  The  Saints  did  all  the  work 
they  could  on  the  building,  and  then 
went  out  and  obtained  work  here  and 
there,  and  with  the  money  they  earned 
they  purchased  those  things  that  were 
necessary  for  its  completion.  It  was 
done  by  sacrificing  all  that  they  had; 
and  when  we  had  done  all  that  we 
could  do,  Oh!  how  joyous  it  was  to 
know  the    Lord    accepted    the  work, 

when  He  stood  upon  the  breastwork 
2 


of  the  Temple,  conversed  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  Oliver,  and  re- 
vealed to  them  their  duties,  and  in- 
formed them  that  the  Gospel  should  go 
from  there  and  be  preached  throughout 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  had  not 
then  he  preached  throughout  the 
United  States  even,  because  the  north- 
ern men  were  called  abolitionists,  and 
the  southern  slaveholders  had  no  use 
for  us  and  would  not  tolerate  us,  but 
now  it  can  be  spread  throughout  the 
nation. 

What  an  easy  thing  it  is  to  pay  ten 
per  cent  as  a  tithing  unto  the  Lord!  I 
think  this  principle  should  be  taken 
into  the  Sabbath  schools  and  the  Mutu- 
al Improvement  Associations  through- 
out Zion,  and  taught  to  the  young  at 
home.  They  should  be  taught  that 
this  is  one  of  the  means  of  salvation 
in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God, 
and  if  they  are  thoroughly  taught  this 
principle  while  young  they  will  take  to 
it  just  as  naturally  as  small  ducks  take 
to  water,  but  if  you  wait  until  they 
grow  up  before  teaching  them  to  pay 
their  tithing,  they  will  want  to  keep 
it  in  their  pockets.  They  see  father  do 
it,  and  if  father  may  do  it,  certainly 
it  is  not  wrong  for  the  boys  to  follow 
the  father's  example. 

Now  this  great  work  we  are  engaged 
in,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  truly 
wonderful.  The  Lord's  Spirit  has  gone 
forth  among  the  children  of  men,  and 
they  are  beginning  to  listen  to*  the 
Elders.  The  Lord  has  shed  forth  His 
Spirit  upon  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
causing  mankind  to  look  for  the  com- 
ing of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  has  taught 
us  through  revelation  to  pray  for  His 
coming  with  His  Kingdom  and  power 
(Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec.  65;, 
that  we  may  be  prepared  for  it,  and 
that  we  may  be  in  a  condition  to  re- 
ceive further  revelation  as  our  cir- 
cumstances require.  What  have  we 
had  given  to  us  since  we  began  to 
pray  for  these  blessings?  Why,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  has  been  a 
stream  of  revelation  ever  since.  When 
I  first  heard  the  Prophet  speak,  it  was 
a  stream  of  revelation  to  me.  He  was 
placed  in  prison,  and,  when  he  re^ 
ceived  his  liberty  again,  he  went  right 
to  work  shepherding  the  Saints  at. 
Nauvoo  and  round  about  there.  In 
those  days  we  had  not  heard  of  bap- 


IS 


GENERAL  C OA FERENCE 


tism  for  the  dead.  I  remember  when 
the  Prophet  brought  forth  that  doc- 
trine. To  some  it  was  so  strong  it  was 
like  putting  new  wine  into  old  bottles, 
some  of  them  broke  and  the  wine  spilt 
out,  losing  both  bottle  and  wine.  We 
could  not  fully  comprehend  so  glorious 
a  principle.  We  did  not  receive  every- 
thing at  once,  but  it  was  given  to  us 
line  upon  line,  and  in  this  way  it  has 
been  coming  to  us  ever  since  as  our 
circumstances  have  required. 

Now,  are  we  living  up  to  these  things 
as  fast  as  we  get  them?  And  are  we 
living  by  "every  word  that  proceedeth 
from  the  mouth  of  God?"  Are  we  pre- 
paring ourselves  for  the  work  that  is 
before  us?  Are  we  just  in  the  work 
of  preparation?  I  look  upon  it  that  our 
children  who  are  just  growing  up  as 
intimated  by  President  Snow,  are  the 
ones  who  will  be  permitted  to  build  the 
New  Jerusalem.  You  know  the  world 
has  departed  from  the  Lord  and  from 
the  principles  employed  in  building  up 
Enoch's  city,  and  we  and  our  fathers 
have  wandered  from  the  Lord  in  our 
spiritual  affairs.  And  we  are  trying  to 
be  converted  to  the  will  of  the  Lord 
in  our  spiritual  things,  so  that  we  may 
become  converted  in  temporal  things. 
We  are  trying  to  understand  the  Gos- 
pel as  Enoch  understood  it  and  as 
Christ  understood  it,  and  to  do  busi- 
ness as  they  did  it,  living  in  co-opera- 
tion and  managing  our  affairs  in  the 
same  way,  but  many  of  us  are  not 
willing  to  be  taught  in  temporal  mat- 
ters. We  should  seek  to  carry  out  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  We  must 
teach  our  children,  our  families  and 
friends  and  unite  in  building  up  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

We  sometimes  forget  these  things 
are  required  by  the  Lord  in  building  up 
His  Kingdom.  They  are  the  material 
things  God  requires  of  us.  For  our 
earthly  existence,  and  for  the  fruits  of 
the  earth  that  the  Lord  gives  us,  and 
for  everything  we  should  be  thankful. 
We  are  educating  our  Sabbath  school 
children  to  grow  up  and  qualify  them- 
selves to  become  apostles,  judges, 
bishops  and  all  manner  of  officers  in 
the  Church  that  shall  be  needed  to  rule 
the  Kingdom  of  God.  And  our  young 
men  should  think  upon  these  things 
and  remember  that  some  time  the  power 
and  authority  will  come  upon  them  to 
enable  them  to  discharge  these  various 


duties.  This  is  the  precious  land  of 
Zion,  to  be  occupied  by  God's  people. 
When  we  first  came  here,  we  could 
scarcely  imagine  that  we  would  be- 
come 250,000  in  number.  What  is  it  to 
be  in  the  next  sixty  years  if  we  con- 
tinue our  teaching  the  word  of  the 
Lord?  We  should  realize  that  we  are 
in  a  state  of  preparation,  preparing 
our  generations  after  us  to  live  better 
than  we,  and  to  become  sanctified  in 
the  Church. 

We  ought  to  have  a  generation  in  a 
little  while  prepared  to  go  down  and 
build  up  the  New  Jerusalem,  accord- 
ing to  the  promises  of  the  Lord  in  re- 
vealing the  everlasting  Gospel  unto  us. 
We  are  living  too  much  upon  the  frac- 
tional part  of  the  faith,  as  Brother 
Grant  has  been  telling  us.  We  should 
know  that  our  course  is  right,  and  then 
continue  in  it.  It  is  not  half  so  im- 
portant for  our  neighbors  to  know  that 
we  are  honest  as  it  is  for  ourselves  to 
know  it.  We  should  prepare  ourselves 
to  build  up  Zion,  and  we  ought  not 
think  these  things  so  far  off  as  we  do, 
for  it  will  not  be  long  before  we  are 
called  upon  to  do  this  work.  We  ought 
to  raise  men  that  are  fully  qualified  to 
go  into  the  world  and  build  up  the 
Church  and  spread  the  Gospel,  thereby 
building  up  Zion.  We  should  be  will- 
ing to  work  to  this  end.  We  want  to 
increase  our  1,700  missionaries  now  in 
the  field  until  we  can  get  200,000  out, 
and  until  the  work  of  the  Lord  can  be 
echoed  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  the 
north  to  the  south.  I  want  you  to  un- 
derstand, brethren,  that  we  have  not 
come  to  a  comfortable  place,  to  squat 
down  on  it  not  to  move  again,  but  we 
should  labor  and  send  forth  the  Gos- 
pel to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  help 
to  build  up  Zion,  and  the  man  who  is 
too  old  to  go  abroad  should  work  here 
and  help  the  younger  men  to  go. 

There  is  work  for  all  to  do.  It  is 
our  duty  to  teach  righteousness  in  the 
earth.  It  is  your  business  as  truly  as 
it  is  the  business  of  President  Woodruff 
or  any  of  us,  to  preach  and  work 
righiteousnes  in  the  earth.  I  delight  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  We  have  a 
great  work  in  hunting  up  Elders  to 
send  abroad  to  preach  to.  the  people. 
Our  Elders  should  feel  that  we  owe  a 
duty  to  the  human  family.  It  is  our 
duty  to  help  to  gather  Israel  and  help 
to  build  up  Zion,  not  with  the  tenth  of 


ABRAHAM  Oil' EN  WOODRUFF. 


19 


our  incomes  only,  but  with  all  that  we 
have;  directly  and  indirectly  we  should 
give  all. 

Well,  we  are  beginning  to  see  what 
is  before  us.  We  are  beginning  to  un- 
derstand what  blessings  await  those 
who  are  faithful  and  truthful  in  all 
things,  and  to  understand  what  our 
duties  are. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  impart 
strength  unto  us,  and  inspire  us  in  our 
duties  and  make  the  fruits  of  our  la- 
bors to  be  seen  in  our  present  life.  And 
I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  with  His 
spirit  while  we  are  together,  so  that 
Israel  may  read  of  the  good  time  we 
have  had.  And  I  want  to  tell  you, 
brethren,  that  these  things  spoken  of 
regarding  the  coming  of  the  Lord  are 
not  so  far  off.  We  have  been  praying 
to  our  Heavenly  Father,  whom  we  do 
not  behold;  but  His  Spirit  is  here  and 
He  answers  our  prayers,  just  as  when 
we  talk  through  a  telephone  we  are 
answered,  although  we  do  not  see  the 
person  with  whom  we  are  talking,  and 


so  it  is  with  our  Heavenly  Father.  The 
three  great  patriarchs,  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob,  started  with  a  small  be- 
ginning, and  revelation  tells  us  that 
they  have  become  Gods,  and  the  prom- 
ise was  given  to  -them  that  their  seed 
should  be  as  numerous  as  the  sands 
upon  the  seashore.  We  are  their  child- 
ren, and  are  not  the  blessings  of  Abra- 
ham, Issac  and  Jacob  our  blessings? 
It  is  our  privilege  to  be  exalted  in  the 
presence  of  Father  Abraham.  We  have 
great  encouragement  to  work  right- 
eousness and  to  qualify  ourselves  to 
teach  the  nations  of  the  earth  the  Gos- 
pel. God  bless  you.  May  He  bless  us 
all  and  inspire  us  to  labor  for  eternal 
lives,  and  may  we  be  saved  and  exalt- 
ed in  His  presence  with  all  the  faithful 
men  and  women  who  have  lived.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 
Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Can- 
non. 


SECOND  DAY- 


April  7th.  10  a.m. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn, 

And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 
That  the  day  is  hasting  on. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Jonathan  G.  Kim- 
ball. 

Singing  by  the  choir  of  the  hymn 
which  begins: 

What  was  witnessed  in  the  heavens? 

Why,  an  angel,  earthward  bound. 
Had  he  something  with  him  bringing"7 

Yes— the  Gospel— joyful  sound. 

ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 

The  Holy  Spirit  makes  all  things  clear— The  Gospel 
embraces  everything  needed  for  the  advancement 
of  man— Good  effects  of  home  missionary  work — 
Necessity  of  wisdom  ind  union  in  temporal  affaiFS( 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
am  pleased  to  meet  with  you  this 
morning,  and  I  trust  that  I  may  enjoy 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  during  the 
few  moments  that  I  may  address  you, 
as  our  brethren  enjoyed  that  Spirit 
yesterday.  I  have  no  desire  to  speak 
a  word  that  cannot  be  heard  by  every 
soul  that  is  here  this  morning,  and  1 
have  no  desire  to  speak  a  word  that 


will  not  be  dictated  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
of  God.  We  have  learned  in  our  ex- 
perience how  easy  it  is  for  men  to 
speak  to  the  edification  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  those  who  are  seeking 
the  truth  when  they  are  inspired  by 
the  Spirit  of  Almighty  God;  but  with 
all  the  oratory  and  learning  of  men, 
they  are  not  able  to  convert  those  who 
are  honest  in  heart,  except  they  pos- 
sess this  Spirit.  The  men  who  have 
had  the  greatest  success  in  converting 
souls  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  have  not  been  men 
of  very  great  learning;  they  have  been 
men  who  have  been  taught  of  God, 
who  have  been  God-fearing,  humblei 
and  willing  to  give  unto  Him  the  honor 
and  the  glory  for  all  they  were  able  to 
accomplish.  So  I  desire  this  morning 
to  possess  that  same  spirit  of  humility 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  I  may 
be  able  to  edify  the  Latter-day  Saints 
for  a  few  moments  and  to  touch  upon 
some  points  that  will  be  for  the  bene- 
fit of  the  people  in  general,  or  of  some 
of  us  at  any  rate. 

In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  there  is  everything. 


"20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  believe,  that  is  necessary  for  our 
happiness  here  upon  earth  and  for  our 
salvation  in  the  future.  Within  its 
organization  we  can  find  everything  to 
keep  our  minds  occupied,  everything 
to  instruct  us  in  every  labor  of  life, 
and  the  Spirit  of  God  to  guide  us  in 
all  that  we  undertake  to  do.  A  great 
many  ministers  who  are  not  of  our 
faith  have  made  comments  upon  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  some  of 
them  have  remarked  that  all  that  was 
necessary  to  thwart  our  purposes  and 
to  bring  to  naught  the  work  that  has 
been  set  on  foot  by  the  Lord  was  to 
show  up  our  principles;  yet  those  who 
make  such  comments  have  always  been 
of  that  class  that  have  never  under- 
taken to  expose  any  one  of  our  prin- 
ciples, they  knowing  full  well  that  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  which  they 
Iiave  investigated  are  founded  upon 
Scriptures  and  upon  the  word  of  God. 
AH  the  comments  that  I  have  ever 
lieard  or  read  that  our  enemies  have 
■ever  made  upon  the  doctrines  of  Jesus 
that  they  have  avoided  the  direct 
bringing  to  light  of  any  one  of  the 
principles  in  which  we  believe;  but  they 
"have  made  incorrect  assertions,  they 
liave  misrepresented  us  in  various 
ways.  This  may  be  because  they  have 
not  thoroughly  understood  our  motives. 

I  have  in  my  pocket  a  slip  of  paper 
clipped  from  the  Portland  Oregonian  of 
March  26th,  giving  the  opinion  of  one 
Mr.  Stone,  the  secretary  of  the  Young 
Men's  Christian  association.  His  com- 
ments are  very  much  of  the  character 
I  bave  mentioned.  He  says  that  the 
Mormons  who  have  been  members  of 
bis  association  have  not  been  per- 
mitted to  vote  or  hold  office  because 
they  are  not  considered  as  Christians. 
We  are  excluded  from  the  pale  of  the 
Christian  churches,  as  they  term  it, 
and  therefore  our  people  have  been  ex- 
cluded from  voting  or  holding  office  in 
that  assocation. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  upon 
this  matter,  inasmuch  as  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  given  to  joining  these 
various  associations  and  societies  that 
are  not  part  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 
In  this  city  alone  we  have  a  great  many 
young  Latter-day  Saints — at  least,  they 
are  the  children  of  Latter-day  Saints — 
who  belong  to  these  various  associa- 
tions. Now,  we  have  no  objection  to 
people     believing     as     they  desire. 


At  the  same  time  it  is  our  wish  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  should  grow  up 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  First 
implant  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  within  their  hearts,  and 
then  they  cannot  be  contaminated  by 
error,  if  they  are  true  and  faithful  to 
the  principles  of  that  Gospel.  In  va- 
rious places  throughout  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  we  find  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  been  given  to  joining  secret  so> 
cieties  as  well  as  other  associations. 
This  is  forbidden  by  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Son  of  God.  There  is  all  of  the 
brotherhood  and  all  of  the  insurance, 
if  you  please,  contained  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  that  are  necessary  for 
us.  It  is  a  fact  that  there  are  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  else- 
where, who  cannot  find  time  to  attend 
to  their  duties  in  the  Priesthood,  but 
do  find  time  to  attend  to  their  lodge 
meetings.  We  are  running  wild  in 
this  respect.  Irreverence  for  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  is  grow- 
ing out  of  this.  Those  young  men 
who  attend  lodge  meetings  and  do  not 
attend  their  Priesthood  meetings,  what 
reverence  do  they  have  for  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God?  They  have 
very  little,  if  any,  because  they  have 
never  learned  to  reverence  that  Priest- 
hood. 

Our  missionaries,  whose  number  has 
been  increased  some  two  hundred  in 
the  world  during  the  last  year,  have 
also  been  performing  a  great  work  at 
home.  One  hundred  and  forty  have 
been  sent  out  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  the  various  settlements,  to 
bring  in  the  indifferent  and  those  who 
have  been  negligent  in  their  duties,  ana 
to  try  to  get  them  to  take  a  live  in- 
terest in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  to  join  the  various  Improvement 
Associations.  The  effect  that  this 
corps  of  missionaries  has  had  upon  the 
people  in  general  has  been  reported  as 
being  very  good.  Not  only  the  Toung 
Men's  and  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  associations,  but  the 
various  Priesthood  meetings  have 
been  better  attended  than  ever 
before,  or  for  years  before,  at 
any  rate.  The  Presidents  of 
Stakes  have  reported,  in  many  in- 
stances, that  the  Sabbath  schools 
also  have  been  improved  through  the 
work  of  these  brethren,  and  also  that 
the  people  have  shown  a  more  liberal 


ABRAHAM  OWEN  WOODRUFF. 


21 


spirit  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes 
and  donations.  They  have  received 
a  general  wakening  up  in  their  re- 
ligion. I  have  ofttimes  wondered 
how  it  is  that  we  could  afford  to  send 
so  many  missionaries  abroad  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  and  at  the  same  time 
neglect  our  young  men  and  young 
women  here  in  Zion.  When  people 
are  converted  abroad  and  are  brought 
to  Zion,  they  see  the  example  of  some 
of  the  young,  and  they  apostatize  on 
account  of  that.  Therefore,  it  has 
been  deemed  wise  by  the  brethren  to 
send  out  these  missionaries,  that  they 
might  go  into  the  homes  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  teach  them  the 
Gospel.  We  understand  that  there 
are  a  great  many  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  that  have  not  been  able  to 
discharge  their  duties  as  they  should 
have  done;  the  Teachers  have  not  in 
all  cases  visited  the  Saints  as  they 
might  have  done;  the  Priests  have  not 
gone  from  house  to  house  and  ex- 
pounded the  Scriptures  as  it  is  their 
duty  to  do;  and  one  of  the  difficuties 
has  been  that  the  members  of  the 
various  quorums  have  not  had  any- 
thing to  do.  Inactivity  is  death. 
Wherever  there  is  a  body  of  people 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  that  has 
nothing  to  do,  that  quorum  or  body 
will  die  spiritually.  The  Spirit  of 
God  will  not  be  with  men  who  are  in- 
active. The  Spirit  of  God  is  a  spirit 
of  progression.  Therefore,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  we  can  see  the  neces- 
sity of  the  work  that  these  mission- 
aries have  been  performing  here  at 
home.  We  cannot  deny  but  that  there 
has  been  great  need  of  this  work. 
And  they  have  worked  just  as  zealous- 
ly, for  aught  I  know,  and  in  many 
cases  I  know  they  have — as  they  would 
have  done  upon  foreign  missions.  If 
we  could  keep  those  Elders  who  have 
returned  from  missions  and  the  vari- 
ous quorums  of  the  Priesthood  at 
work,  there  would  be  little 
doubt  as  to  the  final  outcome  of  this 
work.  We  wish  to  grow  at  home  as 
well  as  abroad;  not  simply  send  our 
Elders  abroad  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
but  also  encourage  their  work  here, 
that  the  people  may  have  their  interest 
renewed  in  the  Gospel  and  every  man 
be  at  work.  The  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  so  complete 


that  it  reaches  every  man  and  every 
woman  and  every  child. 

Some  things  were  spoken  upon  yes- 
terday of  a  temporal  nature  that  might 
be  taken  to  heart  to  good  advantage 
by  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
cannot  separate  our  temporal  salvation 
from  our  spiritual  salvation.  We  should 
be  a  people  who  believe  in  enterprise, 
in  benefiting  each  other  and  sustaining 
each  other.  There  is  one  thing  in. 
connection  with  this  that  I  would  lika 
to  mention.  There  has  been  too  much 
enmity  or  jealousy  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  relation  to  things  that 
have  been  started  for  the  benefit  of 
the  people.  For  instance,  we  go  into 
a  village  and  we  find  a  blacksmith  or 
a  carpenter  who  has  been  doing  a  good 
work  and  able  to  earn  a  fair  wage, 
perhaps  he  has  become  well  off.  Then 
our  brethren  get  jealous  of  that  brother 
becaue  he  is  progressing,  and  the> 
will  start  up  a  shop  of  the  same  kind 
next  door  to  him,  or  very  near.  The 
result  is,  the  profits  have  to  be  divid- 
ed, and  there  is  not  enough  for  either 
of  them  perhaps;  whereas,  had  they 
gone  into  something  else,  they  would 
have  been  able  to  assist  in  the  general 
prosperity.  Our  people  at  various  times 
get  a  mill  craze.  They  get  a  saw- 
mill craze,  or  a  creamery  craze,  or 
something  of  that  kind;  and  because  of 
their  lack  of  union,  they  are  cutting, 
each  other's  throat  financially.  It  ap- 
pears to  me  that  there  is  in  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  of  Christ 
everything  necessary  for  our  temporal 
salvation  as  well  as  for  our  spiritual 
salvation,  and  if  we  would  only  make 
use  of  this  beautiful  organization,  it 
would  not  be  as  we  find  it  today,  our 
people  underbidding  each  other  till  their 
contracts  are  let  so  low  in  various 
places  that  they  are  unable  to  fill  them. 

Only  a  short  time  ago  I  noted  in  one 
of  our  valleys,  which  furnished  sup- 
plies for  Fort  Duchesne,  that  on  ac- 
count of  their  lack  of  union  in  tem- 
poral affairs,  they  had  underbid  each 
other  until  the  man  who  had  secured 
the  wood  contract  was  unable  to  fill  it, 
and  his  bondsmen  had  to  do  so.  So  it 
is  in  relation  to  the  grain,  and  to  the 
flour,  and  everything  that  is  produced. 
When  the  stores  made  these  contracts, 
the  people  got  the  idea  that  they  were 
making  too  much  money  and  getting 
rich,  so  they  went  in  and  underbid  each 


2  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


other  on  government  contracts  and  got 
them  down  to  such  a  low  figure  that 
they  could  not  possibly  afford  to  de- 
liver at  the  price  contracted  for.  This 
is  a  suggestion,  I  believe,  that  it  would 
be  well  to  give  consideration  in  various 
places.  We  find  that  mail  contracts  in 
Utah  are  contracted  for,  in  many  in- 
stances, by  men  who  do  not  live  in  the 
State.  The  last  ones  that  were  let  were 
awarded  to  men  in  Kentucky,  and  they 
sublet  them  to  our  people,  who  do  the 
work  for  less  than  what  their  horses' 
feed  will  cost  them,  if  their  horses 
were  fed  as  they  should  be.  Therefore, 
we  do  the  work  and  some  one  else  gets 
the  money.  These  matters  pertaining 
to  our  temporal  welfare,  I  believe, 
should  be  given  attention  by  the 
Presidents  of  Stakes.  We  should  not 
be  jealous  of  our  brethren  and  sisters 
when  we  see  they  are  progressing  and 
prospering.  We  desire  that  they  should 
do  well.  We  should  desire  that  not 
only  they  should  do  well,  but  that  all 
Israel  should  do  well,  that  we  may  be- 
come an  independent  people,  and  not 
be  the  payers  of  interest,  but  receive 
interest;  that  we  should  have  money 
to  loan,  instead  of  borrowing  and  hav- 
ing the  shingles  mortgaged  over  our 
wives  and  children  as  they  are  today 
in  many  cases. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  God  may 
rest  upon  this  people,  that  we  may  be 
blessed  spiritually  and  temporally; 
that  the  power  of  God  may  be  manifest 
in  this  Conference;  that  the  brethren 
m-y  all  speak  by  the  power  of  the  Lord; 
that  His  Spirit  may  be  with  each  and 
every  one  of  us;  that  we  may  take  to 
heart  the  instructions  that  are  given  in 
this  Conference,  and  carry  them  to  our 
homes,  that  this  Conference  may  be 
the  means  of  refreshing  us,  as  our 
Conferences  always  do,  to  cause  us  to 
be  a  more  moral  people,  a  better  peo- 
ple in  every  respect;  which  may  God 
grant,  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

ELDER  M.  F.  COWLEY. 

The  hand  of  God  in  past  and  current  events — The 
missionaries  abroad — Mutual  improvement  work 
—Peace  departing  from  the  earth — Repeniance 
needed. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  your 
kind  attention,  that  I  may  be  able  to 
make  you  hear.  My  voice  is  not  very 
strong,  and  we  are  reminded  that  we 


must  talk  loud.  I  also  desire  your  kind 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  suggest  all  that  is  said. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  so  broad 
and  comprehensive  that  it  meets  the 
requirements  of  the  Saints  in  all  con- 
ditions of  life  and  in  all  places,  and  it 
is  impossible  for  us  to  have  any  meas- 
ured instructions,  or  anything  pre- 
arranged. We  are  supposed  to  speak 
and  to  counsel  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  every  Latter-day 
Saint  that  assembles  in  this  Confer- 
ence is  under  obligation  to  take  an  ac- 
tive part  in  the  proceedings  of  the 
Conference,  in  the  way  at  least  of 
having  his  mind  clear  and  free  from 
outside  influences,  and  come  here  with 
a  desire  to  be  instructed  and  to  receive 
the  word  of  the  Lord  through  His  ser- 
vants who  are  called  upon  to  address 
us.  1  have  rejoiced  in  the  instructions 
of  this  Conference  thus  far.  I  have  a 
testimony  in  my  heart  that  every 
word  which  has  been  spoken  and  every 
suggestion  which  has  been  made  is  ap- 
propriate. 

I  recognize  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in 
the  events  that  are  occurring  in  the 
midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
also  abroad  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  It  was  stated  yesterday  that 
the  Lord  had  delivered  His  people 
from  every  kind  of  oppression,  so  far 
as  we  had  gone.  To  my  mind,  this  is 
a  very  striking  evidence  of  the  divin- 
ity of  this  work  and  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 
and  He  will  deliver  His  people  from 
every  condition  that  is  not  as  it  should 
be,  provided  we  do  our  duty.  There 
is  nothing  more  important  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  than  to  understand  oui 
individual  duty  and  to  perform  it 
every  day.  It  is  by  compliance  with 
the  simple  and  plain  obligations  that 
the  Gospel  enjoins  upon  us  that  we  are 
entitled  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  to  guide  us  into  all  truth  and 
to  establish  us  against  every  influence 
that  may  be  brought  to  bear  to  destroy 
our  faith  and  to  turn  us  aside  from 
the  path  which  leads  to  eternal  life. 

This  is  the  day  of  the  Lord's  prepar- 
ation, and  the  work  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  is  being  accelerated  in  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  I  have  enjoyed 
myself  since  our  last  General  Confer- 
ence in  traveling  among  the  Elders  of 
the  Southern  States,   principally,  and 


ELDER  MAT  HI  AS  Fi  COWLEY. 


23 


also  touching  briefly  the  mission  of 
Colorado,  of  the  Northern  States  at 
Chicago  and  Cincinnati,  and  of  the 
Eastern  States  in  the  city  of  New- 
York.  I  have  witnessed  a  good  inter- 
est being  exhibited  by  those  young 
Elders  who  are  abroad  preaching  the 
Gospel  in  those  sections  of  the  coun- 
try. And  I  may  say  the  same  of  the 
Northwestern  States  mission,  compris- 
ing the  states  of  Oregon,  northern 
Idaho  and  Washington,  where  I  visit- 
ed a  few  days  ago  in  company  with 
Elder  John  Henry  Smith.  In  all  of 
these  missions  we  have  found  a  good 
spirit  among  the  Elders;  and  I  am 
happy  to  bring  this  report  to  the  fath- 
ers and  mothers  of  the  sons  and  to 
the  wives  of  their  husbands  who  are 
abroad  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  The  Elders 
usually  are  contented  in  their  mis- 
sionary fields.  They  labor  under  the 
influence  of  that  testimony  which 
gives  them  to  understand  that  their 
mission  upon  the  earth  is  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  to  assist  in  the  gathering 
of  Israel  and  in  the  establishment  of 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon 
the  earth.  But  one  of  the  causes 
which  lead  Elders  at  times  to  be 
homesick  is  the  letters  which  they  get 
from  their  peonle  at  home.  The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  should  not  in  this  way 
discourage  those  who  do  us  the  honor 
of  representing  the  work  of  God 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  The 
letters  that  are  sent  abroad  by  wives, 
by  fathers,  by  mothers,  by  brothers,  to 
the  Elders  that  are  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel, should  be  letters  of  encourage- 
ment, and  not  discouragement.  I  la- 
bored with  one  Elder  many  years  ago, 
in  the  state  of  Virginia,  who  had  a 
large  family  of  children.  His  wife 
was  a  good  Latter-day  Saint,  with  a 
great  deal  of  faith;  and  whenever  she 
had  any  sickness  at  home,  she  kept  it 
from  the  knowledge  of  her  husband 
until  the  patient  was  well,  and  the 
Lord  blessed  her  in  so  doing. 

I  have  read  in  the  newspapers  of 
late  the  comments  of  ten  ministers  of 
modern  Christianity,  published  in 
Portland,  Oregon,  where  Brother  Wil- 
liam Parkinson  and  his  brother  were 
preaching  the  Gospel.  Their  com- 
ments were  on  this  wise:  that  the 
Latter-day  Saint  Elders  were  preach- 
ing   doctrine    that    was    common  to 


Christianity,  but  the  distinctive  fea- 
tures of  Mormonism  were  kept  in  the 
background.  I  want  to  say  that  there 
is  not  a  principle  in  the  Gospel  that 
we  have  espoused  that  is  not  dis- 
tinctive from  the  religions  of  the 
world.  There  may  be  a  common  ac- 
ceptance of  the  mission  of  Christ  as 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind;  but  the 
very  principle  of  faith  in  God  and  in 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  exemplified  in 
the  Elders  traveling  and  preaching 
the  Gospel  without  money  and  with- 
out price,  and  the  faith  which  they 
manifest  in  doing  this  in  the  South- 
ern States  is  a  standing  rebuke  to 
those  who  preach  for  money  and  di- 
vine for  hire.  People  said  to  Brother 
Lyman  and  myself,  in  the  Southern 
States  and  elsewhere,  "Why,  we  could 
not  expect  that  our  ministers  would 
do  as  your  Elders  do,  travel  and 
preach,  going  on  foot  from  place  to 
place  and  from  house  to  house,  not 
missing  the  humblest  and  the  poorest 
in  the  land,  without  remuneration  of  a 
financial  character."  This  is  the 
principle  of  faith  exhibited  in  these 
young  Elders,  and  we  ought  to  en- 
courage this  principle,  and  show  our 
faith,  when  we  are  called  upon  to  car- 
ry the  Gospel  abroad,  by  going  and 
performing  the  duty  assigned  unto  us 
to  the  best  of  the  ability  with  which 
the  Lord  shall  endow  us.  The  state- 
ment was  made  by  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  the  commence- 
ment of  this  Church,  and  repeated 
many  times  in  revelations  given 
through  him  to  David  Whitmer,  to 
Oliver  Cowdery,  to  Ziba  Peterson,  and 
to  other  men,  that  the  harvest  is  great 
and  the  laborers  are  few.  That  state- 
ment is  true  today.  Notwithstanding 
the  expansion  of  the  Church,  and  the 
thousands  of  Seventies  whose  busi- 
ness it  is  to  carry  the  Gospel  and  to 
be  especial  witnesses  of  the  name  of 
Christ  in  all  the  world,  and  the  thou- 
sands of  Elders  from  which  their  ranks 
can  be  supplied — notwithstanding  that, 
the  cry  of  the  presidents  of  the  differ- 
ent missions  is  for  more  Elders.  I  be- 
lieve that  Brother  Kelsch,  of  the 
Northern  States  mission,  has  about 
150  Elders  in  his  mission,  and  says 
that  he  could  use  500  as  well  as  not. 
The  president  of  the  Northwestern 
States  mission,  Brother  Parkinson, 
desires  more  Elders  in  that  mission; 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  only  have  about  18.  Brother 
Elias  Kimball  says  that  he  could  use 
in  the  Southern  States  1,000  instead  of 
500.  I  suppose  that  a  similar  testi- 
mony could  be  borne  by  the  presidents 
of  the  various  missions  in  Europe  and 
on  the  Pacific  islands.  This  should 
inspire  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
with  a  desire  that  our  sons  shall  ac- 
quire a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel. 

I  am  glad  to  see  that  while  this  de- 
mand exists  abroad,  there  is  a  corres- 
ponding increase  of  interest  at  home 
in  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  which  has  been 
so  encouragingly  manifest  this  past 
winter  by  the  missionary  work  accom- 
plished by  the  representatives  of  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
who  have  been  traveling  in  the  vari- 
ous Stakes  of  Zion,  getting  right  to 
the  hearts  of  the  boys,  on  the  street 
and  elsewhere,  and  endeavoring  to 
show  them  the  propriety  of  taking  an 
interest  in  the  Gospel,  the  necessity  of 
laying  aside  every  evil  habit,  and  of 
cultivating  in  their  hearts  the  spirit 
of  purity  and  of  righteousness,  that 
they  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  and  power 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  un- 
derstand that  many  of  these  young 
men,  through  their  labors,  have  de- 
veloped a  marked  talent  for  mission- 
ary work,  in  drawing  into  the  fold  of 
Mutual  Improvement  young  men  who 
had  hitherto  been  indifferent  and 
careless  in  regard  to  this  work.  This 
missionary  talent  should  be  cultivated, 
developed,  and  encouraged  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  wherever  it  exists. 
I  believe,  through  their  labors,  they 
have  added  to  the  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Assocations  through- 
out the  Stakes  of  Zion  about  thirteen 
thousand  members  to  those  that  were 
already  enrolled.  This  Is  a  glorious 
work.  I  have  heard  reports  of  the 
excellent  labors  of  Brother  Alphonso 
Snow,  who  labored  in  the  Oneida 
Stake  and  in  parts  of  Cache  Valley. 
Good  reports  come  from  him  and  his 
associates  in  that  work.  I  understand 
that  the  Elders  who  have  labored  in 
this  Stake  and  in  the  southern  Stakes 
of  Zi>on  have  also  accomplished  a  good 
work  in  their  efforts  among  the  young 
men.  I  rejoice  in  this.  I  commend 
the  young  men  for  their  work  in  the 
cause  of  Mutual  Improvement. 

As  I  said,  the  Lord  is  preparing  the 
people.    He    is  also  preparing  the  na- 


tions of  the  earth.  I  wish  to  read  a 
passage  that  comes  to  my  mind  be- 
fore I  sit  down: 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 

0  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things 
known  unto  all  flesh." 

That  is,  the  things  of  the  Gospel,  the 
revelations  of  God  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  introduction  of  a 
new  dispensation  and  the  authority  of 
God  establshed  upon  the  earth  to  call 
men  to  repentance,  and  to  administer 
by  such  authority  and  power  that 
when  men  are  baptized  in  water  they 
shall  receive  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  provided  they  are  honest,  and 
they  shall  have  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  imposition  of  hands. 
This  is  the  character  of  the  dispensa- 
tion committed  unto  us  in  these  last 
days.  The  Lord  says,  "I  am  willing 
to  make  these  things  known  unto  all 
flesh."  He  has  been  making  them 
known  for  the  last  sixty-eight  years. 
He  has  been  placing  the  people  under 
greater  obligations  by  sending  the 
glad  tidings  of  eternal  life,  and  it  has 
been,  to  a  great  extent,  rejected,  al- 
though now  the  barriers  that  have 
been  established  and  maintained  by 
the  priestcraft  of  the  world  and  by 
other  influences  have,  to  some  extent, 
been  broken  down,  until  the  Elders 
are  reaching  the  honest  in  heart  and 
bringing  many  of  them  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth.  The  revelation  con- 
tinues: 

"For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons, 
and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is. 
not  yet,  but  is  at  hand,  when  peace 
shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and 
the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his 
own  dominion; 

"And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power 
over  His  Saints,  and  shall  reign  in 
their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in 
judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the  world." 

Now,  peace,  to  some  extent,  is  being 
taken  from  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
There  are  rumors  of  wars  in  the  land. 
There  is  agitation  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  These  things  have  been 
predicted  by  the  prophets  of  God,  and 

1  testify  that  every  prophecy  that  has 
been  uttered  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  so  far  as  the  wheels  of  time 
have  brought  it  due,  has  been  verified 
to    the    letter,  as    much    so    as  any 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  10UNG. 


25 


prophecy  that  was  ever  uttered  by- 
Moses,  or  by  Isaiah,  or  by  any  of  the 
ancient  prophets  of  the  living  God. 
War  will  be  poured  out  upon  the  na- 
trons of  the  earth;  and  it  shall  come 
to  pass  among  the  wicked  that  every 
man  that  will  not  take  up  his  sword 
against  his  neighbor  must  needs  flee 
unto  Zion  for  safety.  There  shall  be 
gathered  unto  Zion  out  of  every  na- 
tion under  heaven,  and  it  shall  be  the 
only  people  that  shall  not  be  at  war 
one  with  another.  If  there  is  anyone 
that  doubts  the  inspiration  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  I  want  them  to  read 
that  prophecy,  and  to  remember  that 
the  day  will  come  when  the  people  on 
this  land  of  Zion  will  be  the  only  peo- 
ple that  shall  not  be  at  war  one  with 
another,  and  that  the  day  will  come 
when  those  that  will  not  fight  against 
their  neighbors  will  take  up  their 
flight  to  Zion,  that  they  may  find  a 
place  of  safety.  This  prophecy  agrees 
with  the  prophecy  contained  in  the 
4th  chapter  of  Isaiah  and  also  in  the 
13th  chapter  of  Isaiah,  where  he 
speaks  of  the  judgments  of  God  that 
shall  come  upon  the  wicked,  and  that 
there  shall  be  desolation  among  the 
children  of  men,  because  of  their 
pride,  their  haughtiness,  and  their 
wickedness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  judgments  be- 
gin at  the  house  of  the  Lord.  Let  us, 
therefore,  repent  of  our  sins,  repent 
of  our  folly,  of  our  pride,  of  our  hypoc- 
risy, our  inconsistency  and  our  self- 
righteousness  in  sitting  in  judgment 
upon  others,  while  in  our  own  hearts 
there  are  faults  and  in  our  own  eyes 
there  are  many  beams.  I  rejoice,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  work.  I 
have  a  testimony  of  its  truth.  I  am 
glad  to  say  that  we  are  not  idle  in 
our  ministry;  that  we  rejoice  in  our 
labors;  that  we  are  desirous  of  being 
a  benefit  and  a  blessing  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  they  may  profit  by 
the  ministration  of  the  servants  of 
God.  I  bear  to  you  my  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  this  work.  I  bear  to  my 
young  brethren  a  testimony  concern- 
ing this  work  and  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  To  the 
young  people  especially  I  say,  if  you 
will  take  interest  in  this  work,  if  you 
will  seek  unto  God,  in  humble  prayer, 
and  peruse  the  Book  of  Mormon  with 
a    prayerful    heart    and    these  other 


revelations  of  God,  you  shall  receive 
a  testimony  of  the  truth,  and  you 
shall  know  for  yourselves  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God,  and  that  it  has  come 
to  stay,  to  extend  abroad,  and  to  es- 
tablish itself  throughout  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  May  God  bless  you,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER    BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 
The  spirit  of  the  world  opposed  to  salvation— The 
spirit  of  war  abroad  and  of  peace  in  Zion. 

It  is  a  time  of  rejoicing  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints;  for  God  has  been 
merciful  unto  us  as  a  people  and  as 
individuals  we  have  been  blessed 
and  there  has  been  no  time  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church  when  we  had 
greater  cause  to  serve  the  Lord  than 
this  day.  I  am  aware  of  the  fact 
that  there  are  forces  exercised  in  be- 
half of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  also 
that  opposition  is  beginning  to  rear 
itself  again  more  visibly  than  we  have 
experienced  for  several  years.  Every- 
thing that  has  been  spoken  here  in 
this  Tabernacle  yesterday  and  to-day 
has  full  force  and  is  true,  according 
to  the  ideas  that  I  have;  and  every 
prophecy  of  God  contained  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants and  the  Bible,  and  also  the  oral 
instructions  we  receive,  will  be  ful- 
filled. God  is  directing  His  servants 
in  establishing  His  work  upon  the 
earth.  There  are  obligations  resting 
upon  us  that  other  people  deride,  scoff 
at,  and  treat  as  a  thing  of  naught, 
when  those  very  obligations  prompt 
us  to  use  our  means,  our  time,  and 
every  energy  of  our  natures  in  the 
labor  of  saving  souls.  Yet  the  world 
oppose  us  in  this,  and  do  not  love  us, 
because  the  spirit  of  the  world  is  op- 
posed to  salvation,  wealthy  and 
poor,  the  high  and  low,  the  brethren 
and  sisters  in  this  Church  are  gath- 
ering treasures;  they  are  laying  up 
treasures;  they  are  banking  with  our 
Father  and  God.  No  matter  who  they 
are,  the  deposits  are  being  made,  and 
the  books  are  kept  correctly.  The 
debit  and  the  credit  is  there,  and  we 
cannot  escape  it.  Revelation  has  been 
given  to  us  and  great  favors  shown, 
for  a  particular  and  a  distinct  pur- 
pose, because  God  has  chosen  us  out 
of  the  world,  and  they  do  not  love  us. 
But  a  work  is  given  unto  this  people 


26 


GENERAL  CONFER EACE. 


designed  to  benefit  every  human  being 
that  has  lived  or  that  lives  upon  the 
earth.  It  is  not  confined  to  the  few 
millions  that  dwell  upon  the  earth  to- 
day, but  it  extends  into  the  spirit 
world.  I  care  not  what  we  say  or 
what  we  do,  it  will  be  to  our  own  ex- 
altation or  to  our  own  condemnation. 
The  night  will  come  when  no  man 
can  work.  But  the  day  is  given  to  us 
in  which  we  labor.  I  find  in  my  im- 
mediate circle  of  relatives  and  friends 
that  which  I  witness  among  the  peo- 
ple— a  desire  to  do  right.  "Oh!  I 
want  to  do  good;  I  want  to  live  my 
religion."  But  we  do  not  live  it.  It  has 
been  said  that  that  lower  place  is 
paved  with  good  intentions.  We  do 
not  live  our  religion.  Need  this  peo- 
ple to  be  beholden  to  any  race  of  men, 
to  capitalists,  to  business  men,  to  com- 
binations, to  trusts,  or  to  any  society 
outside  of  their  own  limits?  No. 
There  is  a  magnificent  whole,  complete 
in  every  particular  planted  in  the 
midst  of  this  people,  which  is  unas- 
sailable, only  so  far  as  we  admit  the 
enemy  in  our  hearts.  The  only  vul- 
nerable place  in  our  armor  is 
where  we  ourselves  leave  it  exposed, 
because  God  has  armed  us  at  all 
points.  He  has  made  us  impervious 
to  outside  attacks.  But  when  we  boil 
Inside,  destruction  waits  upon  us. 

What  are  the  signs  of  the  times? 
All  people  will  be  at  war,  save  the 
people  in  Zion.  What  will  preserve 
the  people  in  Zion?  When  Brother 
Cowley  read  a  portion  of  that  revela- 
tion in  relation  to  this  matter,  I  asked 
myself  the  question,  what  will  make 
peace  in  Zion?  Is  it  because  we  find 
disunion  here,  because  we  strew  our 
ways  to  strangers,  or  are  in  debt,  or 
harassed  upon  every  side,  or  we  yield 
to  temptation,  or  we  affiliate  with 
those  who  will  turn  and  rend  us? 
Will  this  bring  peace  to  Zion  while  all 
shall  be  at  war  around  us?  Oh,  no! 
We  all  know  that  peace  will  be  here 
because  God  has  given  it  for  the 
righteousness  of  His  people,  the  union 
of  His  sons  and  daughters,  to  whom 
He  has  delegated  the  greatest  work 
-ever  committed  to  men  upon  the  earth. 
That  is  why  peace  will  be  in  Zion.  It 
occurred  to  me  to  read  a  few  verses 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  relation 
to  this  matter.  Lehi,  speaking  to  his 
family,  says: 


"For,  behold,  he  said,  I  have  seen  a 
vision,  in  which  I  know  that  Jerusalem 
is  destroyed;  and  had  we  remained  in 
Jerusalem,  we  should  also  have  per- 
ished. 

"But,  he  said,  notwithstanding  our 
afflictions,  we  have  obtained  a  land  of 
promise,  a  land  which  is  choice  above 
all  other  lands;  a  land  which  the 
Lord  God  hath  covenanted  with  me 
should  be  a  land  for  the  inheritance 
of  my  seed.  Yea,  the  Lord  hath  cov- 
enanted this  land  unto  me,  and  to  my 
children  for  ever;  and  also  all  those 
who  should  be  led  out  of  other  coun- 
tries by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  I,  Lehi,  prophesy  ac- 
cording to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit 
which  is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none 
come  into  this  land,  save  they  shall 
be  brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated 
unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And 
if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him 
according  to  the  commandments  which 
he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  them;  wherefore,  they 
shall  never  be  brought  down  into  cap- 
tivity; if  so,  it  shall  be  because  of 
iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall  abound, 
cursed  shall  be  the  land  for  their  sakes; 
but  unto  the  righteous  it  shall  be 
blessed  for  ever." 

Will  these  words  come  true?  Do 
we  see  today  the  fulfillment  of  the 
promises  of  Lehi,  a  man  who  led  his 
family,  under  the  hand  of  God,  to  this 
land  which  is  choice  above  all  other 
lands,  for  the  purpose  of  establishing 
a  people  here  who  should,  under  the 
providences  of  God,  write  these  writ- 
ings, deliver  these  prophecies,  hide  up 
this  volume,  to  come  forth  in  the  lat- 
ter days  to  a  people  who  should  be 
established  upon  this  land,  and  who 
should  bring  the  Gospel  to  the  seed  of 
Lehi  and  spread  it  abroad  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth;  who  should  gather 
upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  have  peace 
and  joy,  though  mourning  over  the 
tribulations  of  their  brethren?  Peace 
shall  reign  in  Zion  if  we  are  righteous. 
But  if  iniquity  abound  here,  where  is 
peace  promised  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  that  event?  I  know  of  no 
place  or  refuge  upon  the  earth  that 
will  not  be  affected  when  iniquity 
abounds  in  the  hearts  of  the  sons  of 
our  Father.   Is  that  not  so? 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


27 


"And  behold,  it  is  wisdom  that  this 
land  should  be  kept  as  yet  from  the 
knowledge  of  other  nations;  for  be- 
hold, many  nations  would  overrun  the 
land,  that  there  would  be  no  place  for 
an  inheritance." 

And  Lehi  goes  on  to  prophesy  in  re- 
lation to  this  matter. 

We  are  threatened  with  a  war.  The 
nations  of  the  earth  are  threatened 
with  war.  Turmoil  and  confusion 
are  in  our  own  land.  We  are  strewing 
our  ways  to  strangers.  Your  sons  and 
my  sons  are  joining  with  those  who  are 
not  of  our  faith,  and  I  testify  that  it 
is  a  source  of  infidelity  in  the  minds 
of  those  who  do  these  things.  God 
will  have  a  people  that  will  serve  Him, 
and  they  will  be  a  righteous  people, 
and  the  land  will  be  blessed;  for  I 
testify  to  you  this  day  that  Zion  will 
be  weeded,  the  iniquitous  acts  of  men 
will  bring  their  own  destruction,  and 
Zion  will  be  cleansed  before  this  great 
and  dreadful  day  comes  when  war 
shall  be  among  all  nations,  and  in 
Zion  there  shall  be  peace. 

God  give  us  grace  to  understand  the 
signs  of  the  times,  and  to  know  that 
we  have  no  time  to  spare;  that  the 
time  is  now  when  we  must  prepare 
ourselves,  that  when  those  who  de- 
sire peace  flee  unto  us  they  will  not 
find  us  wanting,  but  the  faith  and 
power  of  God  will  be  in  the  midst  ot 
the  people,  to  the  salvation  of  every 
soul  that  seeks  to  dwell  in  peace  and 
serve  God  in  an  undisturbed  manner. 
May  grace  abound  in  our  hearts,  and 
peace  be  in  our  homes,  in  the  hearts 
of  our  wives  and  children;  and  may 
we  set  our  faces  as  a  flint  to  serve 
God  with  undivided  hearts,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

■Great  cause  for  serving  the  Lord— Righteousness 
brings  peace— The  war  spirit  among  the  nations. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  with  you 
I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the 
services  of  this  Conference,  and  my 
heart  has  been  made  glad  by  reason 
of  the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
upon  His  servants.  I  have  felt  for 
myself  very  much  encouraged  by  the 
words  that  have  been  spoken,  and 
have  felt  reproved  when  reproof  has 
been  administered.  I  rejoice  that 
my  spirit  has  been  so  far  responsive 


to  the  spirit  manifested  through  our 
brethren  who  have  ministered  unto 
us.  Great  truths  have  been  spoken; 
great  testimonies,  far  reaching  in  their 
effects  in  the  earth,  have  been  deliv- 
ered; and  it  does  seem  to  me  that  the 
voice  of  warning  is  being  sounded 
through  this  Conference  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth. 

While  the  brethren  were  speaking 
this  morning  the  following  passage  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  came  very 
forcibly  to  my  mind.  It  is  found  in 
the  88th  section.  The  Lord  addresses 
the  revelation  to  His  servants  who 
were  engaged  in  the  ministry,  and  it 
contains  instructions  to  them;  and  in 
this  particular  part  the  Lord  said: 

"Abide  ye  in  the  liberty  wherewith 
ye  are  made  free;  entangle  not  your- 
selves in  sin,  but  let  your  hands  be 
clean,  until  the  Lord  come; 

"For  not  many  days  hence  and  the 
earth  shall  tremble  and  reel  to  and 
fro  as  a  drunken  man,  and  the  sun 
shall  hide  his  face,  and  shall  refuse 
to  give  light,  and  the  moon  shall  be 
bathed  in  blood  and  the  stars 
shall  become  exceeding  angry,  and 
shail  cast  themselves  down  as  a  fig 
that  falleth  from  off  a  fig  tree. 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh 
wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  peo- 
ple, for  after  your  testimony  cometh 
the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that 
shall  cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of 
her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the 
ground,  and  shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of 
the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the 
voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of 
tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves 
of  the  sea,  heaving  themselves  beyond 
their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commo- 
tion; and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall 
fail  them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all 
people." 

This  revelation  was  given  in  the 
year  1832 — 66  years  ago;  and  has  been 
Cod's  voice  unto  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  If  it  was  wisdom  in  Him  so 
long  ago  to  place  upon  record  this 
His  word,  how  much  more  important 
it  is,  after  the  lapse  of  more  than  half 
a  century,  that  it  should  be  repeated, 
and  especially  in  view  of  the  commo- 
tion that  exists  among  the  children  of 
men,  when  great  dynasties  seem  to  be 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


crumbling  to  pieces,  and  when  nations 
have  been  arming  and  equipping  them- 
selves for  war,  and  when  there  is  evi- 
dence of  the  elements  being  disturbed, 
and  when  by  experience  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth  may  know  that  de- 
structive elements  may  sweep  over 
the  land  at  the  will  of  God. 

I  wish  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that 
the  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to 
my  heart  is  that  there  is  a  wonderful 
significance  in  the  opening  of  the  way 
for  the  proclamation  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  among  the  nations.  The 
Lord  hath  softened  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men,  and  in  fulfillment  of 
the  prediction  of  His  servant,  Presi- 
dent, Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of 
the  Church  of  Christ,  hath  broken 
down  the  barriers  and  opened  up  path- 
ways for  the  servants  of  God,  that 
they  might  cry  repentance  unto  this 
generation,  and  that  the  warning 
might  be  sounded  in  their  ears  be- 
fore judgment  shall  be  poured  out 
upon  them.  The  Lord  in  this  genera- 
tion hath  not  left  Himself  without 
witness  unto  the  children  of  men.  He 
has  not  only  given  this  word  that  I 
have  read  to  you,  for  His  servants  to 
make  proclamation  of  among  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth;  but  He  has 
gathered  together  a  people  from  every 
land,  brought  here  by  the  proclamation 
of  this  warning  message,  and  hath  in 
this  manner  builded  a  monument  of 
warning  unto  this  generation.  It  seems 
to  me  that  He  has  taken  more  pains 
to  proclaim  unto  the  present  genera- 
tion of  men  the  judgments  that  are  in 
store  for  them  than  He  did  in  the  days 
of  Noah;  for  if  the  teachings  of  Noah 
and  the  building  of  an  ark  were  a 
witness  unto  that  generation  of  tht- 
destruction  that  was  threatened,  sure- 
ly the  gathering  together  of  this  peo- 
ple, together  with  every  temple  that 
they  have  erected,  and  every  mighty 
Conference  that  they  have  held,  is 
God's  witness  and  voice  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth  that  the  con- 
troversy He  hath  with  them  is  most 
surely  to  take  place. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you, 
in  connection  with  my  brethren,  that 
the  Gospel  is  true;  that  there  is  virtue 
and  power  in  the  work  of  God,  and 
that  my  confidence  in  its  accomplish- 
ing that  which  hath  been  decreed  con- 


cerning it  is  most  supreme.  And  I 
ould,  if  I  could,  join  with  you  all  in 
sounding  this  warning  unto  the  In- 
habitants of  the  earth,  that  the  hour 
of  God's  judgment  is  at  hand;  and 
He  is  vindicating  His  word  and  hath 
given  unto  the  people  due  warning 
and  an  opportunity  to  repent.  I  trust 
that  He  will  continue  to  do  so — con- 
tinue to  soften  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  and  to  leave  open  the 
gateway  to  their  hearts  until  this  work 
of  warning  shall  be  thoroughly  com- 
pleted to  His  own  great  satisfaction. 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 
The  hymn  which  begins, 

For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we  bless 
Thee, 

Our  God,  our  fathers'  God, 

was  sung  by  the  choir. 

Benediction  by  Elder  George  Rey- 
nolds. 


2  p.  m. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congregation 
of  the  hymn  which  begins, 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free 
"We  here  enjoy. 

Prayer  by  Elder  David  H.  Cannon. 
The  choir  sang: 

Glory  to  God  on  high; 
Let  heaven  and  earth  reply, 
Praise  ye  His  name. 

PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF 

Strange  personal  experiences— Preserved  by  the 
revelations  and  power  of  God — Incidents  of  a 
remarkable  ministry— Great  change  coming  over 
the  earth— The  work  of  God  progressing. 

[At  President  Woodruff's  request, 
President  Cannon  read  the  1st  Section 
of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants.] 

I  want  the  attention  and  the  prayers 
of  the  Saints  who  have  assembled 
upon  this  occasion.  I  have  been  sick 
and  very  weak  in  my  body  for  a 
month  past,  and  did  not  feel  that  I 
would  be  able  to  attend  this  Confer- 
ence till  the  day  before  it  opened.  I 
have  been  blessed  in  this  respect  to 
be  with  you.  I  desire  to  say  some 
things  to  vou,  and  perhaps  some 
strange  things,  too.  I  feel  disposed  to> 
say  something  about  myself,  to  give 
you  a  little  of  the  history  of  my  life, 
because  of  what  I  may  want  to  say, 


PRESIDEN1   WILFORD  WOODRUFF 


29 


before  I  get  through,  to  the  rising 
generation  of  Israel.  My  remarks  may 
be  very  eccentric  to  any  but  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  to  them  also,  I  expect. 

I  suppose  when  I  was  born  the  devil 
knew  what  I  should  be  called  to  do; 
for  there  has  been  from  the  day  I  was 
born  until  the  present  two  powers  with 
me — one  to  kill  me,  the  other  to  save 
me.  I  stand  before  you  today  a  pretty 
sound-looking,  for  a  man  ninety-one 
years  of  age.  I  stand  before  you  with 
a  body  in  which  almost  every  bone  has 
been  broken  except  my  back  and  neck. 
I  have  had  through  my  life  a  power  af- 
ter me  to  take  my  life.  When  I  was 
about  three  years  old  I  was  pushed 
into  a  caldron  of  boiling  water,  which 
had  just  been  taken  off  the  fire.  My 
grandmother  took  me  out,  and  my  skin 
all  dropped  off  excepting  off  my  head 
and  feet.  I  was  wrapped  up  for 
months  in  cotton  and  oil.  That  was 
the  beginning  of  my  troubles.  When 
I  was  twelve  years  of  age  I  was 
drowned;  at  any  rate,  I  lay  in  thirty 
feet  of  water  long  enough  to  drown 
anyone.  After  several  unsuccessful 
attempts,  I  was  brought  up  out  of  the 
water.  This  was  under  the  Farming- 
ton  mill  dam.  I  was  just  as  dead  as 
I  shall  be  thirty  years  hence.  I  lay  on 
my  back  and  saw  the  sun  go  out,  and 
passed  through  all  the  sensations  of 
death  that  any  man  would  in  drown- 
ing. After  an  hour's  labor,  I  was 
brought  around  to  life  again.  I  shall 
not  go  into  the  particulars  of  many  of 
these  things,  but  I  have  passed 
•h  what  may  be  termed  death  a 
number  of  times  in  my  life.  When  I 
was  15  years  old  I  was  in  one  of  those 
Connecticut  blizzards.  I  walked  four 
miles  through  a  wood  into  the  open 
country,  and  I  sought  some  place 
where  I  could  hide  from  the  storm 
and  rest.  There  was  but  one  house 
within  a  mile  of  me — that  was  the 
poor  house,  which  was  about  twenty- 
five  rods  away.  The  man  was  moved 
upon  to  go  up  in  his  garret  to  get  some 
pennyroyal  to  give  to  a  sick  woman, 
and  he  felt  led  to  look  out  of  the  win- 
dow. He  saw  me  crawling  into  the 
hollow  of  a  big  tree.  He  knew  what 
the  result  of  that  would  be  better  than 
I  did.  He  took  his  horse  and  sleigh 
and  came  to  me,  and  when  he  got 
there  I  was  asleep,  and  he  preserved 


my  life.  When  I  was  14  years  old  I 
was  bit  by  a  mad  dog,  and  ought  to 
have  died;  but  I  did  not.  So  I  contin- 
ued on,  until  I  can  say  that  I  have 
broken  both  of  my  legs,  one  twice; 
broken  both  of  my  arms,  breast  bone, 
several  ribs,  and  altogether  been 
through  a  pretty  hard  experience  for 
a  man  who  had  to  be  called  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  at  least.  I  was  a  miller 
by  trade.  I  have  been  in  two  water 
wheels  under  full  head  of  water,  and 
I  suppose  I  ought  to  have  been  killed 
in  either  of  them,  but  I  was  not  hurt. 

That  preserving  power  has  followed 
me  all  the  way  through  my  life.  It 
has  been  with  me  upon  my  missions 
abroad  as  well  as  at  home.  It  has 
followed  me  until  the  present  day,  and 
I  have  been  placed  in  a  great  many 
strange  places. 

I  was  ordained  to  dedicate  this  Salt 
Lake  Temple  fifty  years  before  it  was 
dedicated.  I  knew  I  should  live  to 
dedicate  that  Temple.  I  did  live  to  do 
it.  I  had  a  great  desire  in  my  boyhood 
to  receive  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  to  see 
a  prophet  or  somebody  that  could 
teach  me  the  Gospel  of  Christ  as 
taught  by  the  ancient  Apostles  and  as. 
I  read  of  in  the  New  Testament.  1 
desired  this  with  every  sentiment  of 
my  heart,  and  on  the  first  Gospel 
sermon  I  ever  heard  I  was  baptized, 
with  my  oldest  brother.  I  immediate- 
ly went  to  Kirtland.  I  was  in  Zion's 
Camp  with  the  Prophet  of  God.  I  saw 
the  dealings  of  God  with  him.  I  saw 
the  power  of  God  with  him.  I  saw  that 
he  was  a  Prophet.  What  was  mani- 
fest to  him  by  the  power  of  God  upon 
that  mission  was  of  great  value  to 
me  and  to  all  who  received  his  instruc- 
tions. I  will  refer  to  one  instance. 
A  short  time  before  we  landed  in 
Missouri  Joseph  called  the  camp  to- 
gether. He  there  prophesied  unto  us, 
and  told  us  what  lay  before  us.  He 
gave  us  the  reason  why  chastisement 
was  before  us.  He  says:  "You  con- 
sider me  a  boy  with  the  rest  of  you. 
You  have  not  realized  my  position  be- 
fore the  Lord.  But  there  is  a  chas- 
tisement before  this  camp."  He  told  us 
that  this  would  come  upon  us  because 
he  had  not  been  obeyed  in  his  counsels. 
In  one  hour  after  we  landed  in  Mis- 
souri and  pitched  our  tents  at  Mr. 
Burkett  s,  one  man  began  to  fall  here, 


3© 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


another  there,  and  in  a  few  moments 
we  had  a  dozen  of  our  camp  stretched 
upon  blankets  with  the  cholera.  The 
Prophet  of  God,  when  he  saw  this, 
felt  to  smypathize  with  them,  and  he 
and  Hyrum  laid  their  hands  upon 
Brother  Carter,  the  first  man  that 
was  taken  sick,  but  as  soon  as  they 
did  it  they  were  seized  themselves, 
and  they  both  had  to  leave  the  camp. 
He  said  afterwards:  "I  told  you  what 
was  coming  to  pass,  and  when  afflic- 
tion came  I  stretched  out  my  hand  to 
stay  it,  and  I  came  very  near  falling 
by  it  myself."  That  mission  was  very 
interesting  to  me. 

I  want  to  say  here  that  in  all  my 
life  since  joining  this  Church  and 
kingdom,  notwithstanding  these  pow- 
ers that  have  been  with  me  to  kill 
me,  I  have  always  had  the  revelations 
of  God  with  me.  That  is  something 
I  want  to  talk  about  to  Israel  before 
I  get  through.  The  power  of  God  has 
told  me  what  to  do  and  what  not  to 
do.  While  the  devil  has  had  powei 
to  afflict  my  body  very  seriously,  th?re 
has  been  a  power  with  me  that  has 
saved  me  through  it  all.  And,  when- 
ever I  have  had  the  Holy  Spirit  with 
me  to  tell  me  what  to  do,  I  have  had 
to  do  that.  By  that  I  have  been 
saved.  By  listening  to  that  still  small 
voice  I  am  here  today  with  you.  There 
are  two  reasons  why  I  am  here  today. 
When  I  went  back  after  the  pioneer 
journey,  President  Young  said  he 
wanted  me  to  take  my  family  and  go 
to  Boston,  and  stay  there  till  I  could 
gather  all  the  Saints  of  God  in  New 
England  and  Canada  and  bring  them 
to  Zion.  That  was  the  mission  he 
gave  me  on  my  return  from  the  pio- 
neer journey  to  Winter  Quarters.  I 
went  in  the  spring,  as  he  told  me,  and 
took  my  family.  We  came  one  even- 
ing to  one  of  the  brethren's  houses  in 
Indiana.  Several  of  us  were  th-?re. 
Orson  Hyde  had  a  team  as  well  as  my- 
self. We  drove  into  a  long  yard.  I 
set  my  carriage  within  six  inches  of 
his.  I  had  my  wife  and  children  with 
me.  I  tied  my  animals  to  an  oak  tree 
on  the  other  side  of  where  we  camped. 
I  went  to  bed  in  my  carriage.  As  I 
laid  down,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  lold 
me  to  get  up  and  move  my  carriage. 
1  did  not  ask  the  Lord  what  He 
meant.    I  did  as  I  was  told.    The  same 


Spirit  told  me  to  go  and  move  my 
animals  away  from  that  tree.  I  did 
that.  My  wife  asked  me  why  I  did  it. 
I  told  her  I  did  not  know.  I  had  not 
been  in  bed  twenty  minutes  when 
there  came  a  whirlwind  and  took  thai 
oak  tree,  which  had  stood  there  per- 
haps fifty  years,  split  it  right  through 
the  trunk,  and  it  swept  through  both 
of  those  fences  where  my  carriage  had 
stood.  It  never  touched  Brother  Hyde's 
carriage,  but  it  would  have  crushed 
me  and  my  family  to  the  tarth 
if  I  had  not  listened  to  the  voice  of  the 
Spirit.  After  spending  two  years  and 
a  half  in  New  England  and  Canada, 
getting  the  Saints  out,  I  started  back 
with  the  last  lot,  about  a  hundred, 
from  Boston.  We  landed  in  Pitts- 
burg at  dusk.  We  were  anxious  not 
to  stay  there,  but  to  go  on  to  St. 
Louis.  I  saw  a  steamer  making  steam 
ready  to  go  out.  I  went  to  the  cap- 
tain and  asked  him  how  many  passen- 
gers he  had.  "Three  hundred  and  fif- 
ty." "Could  you  take  another  hun- 
dred?" "Yes."  I  was  just  about  to 
tell  him  we  wanted  to  go  aboard  when 
that  Spirit  said  to  me,  "Don't  go 
aboard  that  steamer,  you  nor  your 
company."  All  right,  said  I.  I  had 
learned  something  about  that  still, 
small  voice.  I  did  not  go  aboard  that 
steamer,  but  waited  till  the  next  morn- 
ing. In  thirty  minutes  after  that 
steamer  left,  it  took  fire.  It  had  ropes 
instead  of  wheel  chains,  and  they  could 
not  go  ashore.  It  was  a  dark  night, 
and  not  a  soul  was  saved.  If  I  had 
not  obeyed  the  influence  of  that  moni- 
tor within  me,  I  would  have  been  there 
myself,  with  the  rest  of  the  company. 
The  Thirteenth  ward  would  not  have; 
had  an  Atwood  for  a  Bishop;  the 
Church  would  not  have  had  a  Leonard 
W.  Hardy  as  Bishop.  They  were  both 
with  me,  and  their  families,  including 
Brother  Samuel  Hardy,  who  is  in  St. 
George  now,  upwards  of  ninety  years 
old.  I  never  disobeyed  that  Spirit 
but  once  in  my  life;  I  did  it  then 
through  the  urgency  of  other  persons, 
and  it  nearly  cost  me  my  life.  I  have 
been  acquainted  with  this  Spirit.  It 
was  not  the  blow  of  trumpets  noi- 
thunder  and  lightning;  it  was  the  still 
small  voice  to  me.  All  the  way  from 
my  boyhood  I  have  been  governed  and 
controlled  by  that  Spirit.  My  missions 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 


3  J 


have  been  by  that  Spirit  of  revelation. 
I  was  told  to  go  to  Fox  Islands  by 
that  same  still  small  voice.      In  the 
time  of  the  great  apostasy  in  Kirtland 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  said  to  me,  "Gel 
you  a  partner  and  go  to  Fox  Islands." 
I  knew  no    more    what    was    in  Fox 
Islands  than  what  was    in    Kolob.  1 
went  there,  however,  baptized  a  hun- 
dred and  brought  them  up  to  Zion  with 
me.     It  was  upon  that  island  where  I 
received  a  letter  from   Joseph  Smith, 
telling  me  that  I  was  called  by  revela- 
tion to  fill  the  place  of  one  of  the 
Twelve  who  had  fallen.    You  will  see 
it  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  That 
thing  was  revealed  to  me  before  I  re- 
ceived the  letter  from  Joseph  Smith, 
but  I  did  not  feel  disposed  to  tell  it  to 
any  mortal  man,  for  I  knew  it  was  my 
duty  to  keep  such  things  to  myself. 
Through  all  my  life  and  labors,  when- 
ever I  have  been  told  to  do  anything  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  have  always 
found  it  good  to  do  it.     I   have  been 
preserved  by  that  power.     That  power 
was  with  me  when  I  went  to  Hereford- 
shire.     I  was  preaching  every  night 
with  Brother  Cordon,  and  one  night  we 
held  a  meeting  in   the  town  hall  at 
Hanley,  in  Staffordshire.     The  Spirit- 
that  still  small  voice — said  to  me,  "This 
is  the  last  meeting  you  will  hold  with 
this  people  for  many  days."  I  told  the 
congregation  so  when  I  got  up.  They 
were  very  much  astonished,  and  asked 
me  where  I  was  going.    I  told  them  I 
did  not  know.   After,  I  went  to  ask  the 
Lord  what  he  wanted  of  me,  and  He 
told  me  to  go  to  the  south.    That  was 
all  the  answer  I  got.    I  took  the  stage 
and  rode  eighty  miles  south.    The  first 
man's  house  I  went  into  was  John  Ben- 
bow's.    I  had  not  been  in  his  house 
fifteen  minutes  till  I  understood  why 
the  Lord  had  sent  me  there.  There 
was  a  people  broken  off  from  the  Wes- 
leyan     Methodists,    who    had  banded 
together  and  called  themselves  United 
Brethren.    They  were  watching  for  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  watching 
for  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  they  read  of 
it  in  the  New  Testament.     The  first 
thirty  days  after  I  got  there  I  brought 
into  the  Church  some  two  thousand, 
with    fifty    ministers,    and    all  their 
chapels,  licensed  according  to  law,  were 
in  my  hands.     There  was  no  blowing 
of  trumpets  about  that.    The  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  told  me  to  go  there,  and  when 
I  got  there  I  saw  why  I  was  sent. 


That  is,  perhaps,  enough  to 
say  about  those  things.  Now,  I 
want  to  say  to  this  congregation,  to 
the  young  men  of  Israel,  to  the  Elders 
of  Israel,  to  all  our  missionaries,  the 
day  has  come  when  the  God  of  heaven 
requires  at  my  hands,  as  the  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  say  unto  you,  it 
is  the  will  of  God  for  you  to  take  this 
course.  Get  the  Spirit  of  God  before 
you  go  on  your  missions  or  anywhere 
else.  Get  the  spirit  of  revelation  with 
you.  And  when  you  get  that  you  are 
safe,  and  you  will  do  exactly  what  the 
Lord  wants  you  to  do.  I  have  felt 
strongly  impressed  to  say  that  to  this 
Conference.  What  can  you  do  with- 
out revelation?  We  cannot  do  the  will 
of  God  and  accomplish  what  is  re- 
quired of  us  without  it.  We  will  make 
no  mistakes  if  we  pursue  that  course. 
That  spirit  is  with  the  Apostles,  and 
with  the  Elders  of  Israel  who  are  true 
and  faithful.  The  rising  generation 
should  labor  to  obtain  the  Spirit  of 
God.  Get  it  within  you  and  it  will  be 
a  continual  monitor  with  you. 

That  is  one  reason,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, why  my  life  has  been  preserved. 
I  will  tell  you  another  reason.  Of 
course,  this  is  my  own  reason  for  it. 
One  reason  why  I  am  here  is  because 
the  Lord  has  chosen  the  weak  things 
of  this  world  to  preach  the  Gospel,  to 
do  His  work,  to  build  up  His  kingdom. 
I  do  not  think  He  has  ever  had  a 
weaker  instrument  on  earth  to  work 
through  than  myself.  The  Almighty 
has  known  that  never  for  a  minute 
since  I  have  been  a  member  of  this 
Church  have  I  had  any  power  to  take 
any  honor  or  glory  to  myself  with  re- 
gard to  anything  that  I  have  been  en- 
abled to  do  in  the  work  of  the  ministry 
or  elsewhere.  Why?  Because  I  have 
known  it  has  come  from  God,  and  not 
from  me.  And  no  other  man  who  has 
engaged  in  this  work  has  had  any  pow- 
er of  himself.  This  power  has  come 
from  God  unto  us,  whereby  we  have 
been  enabled  to  do  the  work  He  has  re- 
quired at  our  hands. 

There  is  a  change  coming  over  the 
earth;  there  is  a  change  coming 
over  the  Christian  world;  and  It 
is  at  our  door.  You  read  the 
revelations  in  the  Bible,  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants appertaining  to  our  day  and  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


generation  before  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  Man.  War!  Yes;  war  is  one  of  the 
troubles  that  belong  to  the  generation 
in  which  we  live.  It  will  come  to  pass, 
and  no  power  beneath  the  heavens  can 
stay  it.  Who  cannot  open  their  eyes 
and  see  the  change  in  the  things  around 
us?  Read  these  revelations — the  revela- 
tion just  read  by  Brother  Cannon,  and 
the  others  in  these  books.  The  God  of 
heaven  has  set  His  hand  to  carry  out 
these  great  purposes  that  you  read  of. 
They  are  as  sure  to  come  to  pass  as 
that  God  lives.  There  is  no  power  on 
earth,  nor  beneath  the  earth,  nor  any- 
where else,  that  can  stay  the  fulfill- 
ment of  these  things.  And  they  are  at 
our  doors. 

I  am  anxious  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  shall  round  up  their  shoulders 
and  bear  off  the  kingdom  of  God.  Many 
in  the  world  have  labored  to  try  the 
overthrow  Mormonism.  They  have 
driven  our  people  from  their  lands. 
They  have  persecuted  and  afflicted  us. 
They  have  put  some  to  death,  for  the 
word  of  God  and  testimony  of  Jesus. 
But  they  have  not  thwarted  the  pur- 
poses of  God  in  any  of  these  things. 
The  Lord,  in  His  mercy  and  wisdom, 
has  led  this  people  to  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains.  It  is  ordained  of  God 
that  Zion  is  to  be  established  here. 
Here  is  the  Tabernacle  that  the 
Prophet  spoke  of  as  a  covering  from 
the  storm  and  the  wind,  etc.  These 
temples  are  here  in  fulfillment  of 
prophecy.  We  have  four  of  them  in  this 
State.  President  Young  was  honored 
of  God  in  the  establishment  of  these 
things.  He  lived  long  enough  to  dedi- 
cate the  corner  stone  of  this  Temple  on 
this  bk  ck,  into  which  the  Latter-day 
Saints  go  and  deliver  their  friends  who 
are  in  the  prison  house,  and  attend 
to  the  ordinances  of  the  house  of  God 
for  them,  in  fulfillment  of  the  ancient 
Prophets,  who  spake  as  they  were 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  the 
effect  that  saviors  should  be  raised 
up  on  Mount  Zion  in  the  latter  days 
while  the  kingdom  is  the  Lord's.  Zion 
has  got  to  arise. 

"Sing,  O  heavens;  and  be  joyful,  O 
earth;  and  break  forth  into  singing,  O 
mountains;  for  the  Lord  hath  com- 
forted His  people,  and  will  have  mercy 
upon  His  afflicted. 

"But  Zion  said,  The  Lord  hath  for- 


saken me,  and  my  Lord  hath  forgotten 
me. 

"Can  a  woman  forget  her  suckling 
child,  that  she  should  not  have  com- 
passion on  the  son  of  her  womb?  Yea, 
they  may  forget,  yet  will  I  not  forget 
thee. 

"Behold,  I  have  graven  thee  upon  the 
palms  of  my  hands;  thy  walls  are  con- 
tinually before  me."  (Isaiah,  49:  13-16.) 

All  that  has  been  spoken  concerning 
Ziion  will  come  to  pass,  and  you  and  I 
today  are  witnesses  of  these  things. 

We  are  here  for  salvation  and  eter- 
nal life.  We  are  here  to  obtain  those 
great  blessings  which  Saints  of  God 
In  every  age  of  the  world  have  obtained 
when  they  have  obeyed  the  command- 
ments of  God.  Shall  we  fail?  No,  we 
shall  not  if  we  do  our  duty.  The  Gospel 
is  just  as  good  today  as  it  was  in 
the  days  of  the  Savior.  As  to  the  glor- 
ious blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
they  have  been  unpopular  in  almost 
every  age  of  the  world.  Take  Christ 
Himself:  where  was  there  a  more  un- 
popular man  than  the  Savior  of  the 
world  in  His  day?  And  His  Apostles 
were  unpopular.  They  were  put  to 
death  for  the  word  of  God  and  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  Christ.  Nevertheless, 
Christ  was  the  Son  of  God;  and  the 
Saducees,  the  Pharisees,  the  Essenes, 
and  all  the  sects  that  warred  against 
Him  were  cursed  and  many  of  them 
were  cast  down  to  hell,  while  He  re- 
mains as  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and 
received  the  honor  and  the  glory  which 
His  Father  had  ordained  for 
Him.  I  want  our  young 
people  especiallv  to  remem- 
ber these  things.  Those  who  are  going 
upon  missions  must  not  neglect  them. 
Unless  you  have  the  Holy 
Ghost  with  you  when  you  go  out 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  you  cannot 
do  your  duty;  but  when  you 
have  that  you  are  safe,  go  where  you 
will,  and  your  words  will  have  their 
effect  in  the  hearts  of  the  honest  and 
meek  of  the  earth. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  to  thank 
God  that  we  are  as  well  off  as  we  are. 
I  feet  to  thank  God  that  we  are  in  the 
position  we  occupy  in  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains.  Here  is  a  safe  place. 
While  in  the  dedication  of  that  Temple 
I  saw  the  judgments  of  God  that  were 
about  to  be  poured  out  upon  this  gen- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


33 


eration.    They  will  come  to  pass.  I 
read  the  other  night  of  a  terrible  flood. 
Who  ever  heard  of  such  a  flood  in 
America   before?     These    floods,  and 
troubles  and  tribulations  are  increasing 
in  the  earth,  and  they  will  increase  un- 
til this  scene  is  wound  up.    I  pray  God 
my  Heavenly  Father  to  bless  you  all, 
to  inspire  our  hearts,  that  the  vision 
of  our  minds  may  be  open  to  compre- 
hend the  position  we  are  in  and  the  re- 
sponsibility we  are  under.   The  eyes  of 
all  heaven  and  earth  and  hell  are  over 
us.   The  eyes  of  the  devils  are  over  us. 
They  labor  for  our    destruction;  but 
they  have  not  power  to  do  it.    We  are 
in  the  hands  of  God.  He  holds  the  keys 
of  the  destinies  of  the  inhabitants  of 
the    earth,    and    He    will     bless  the 
righteous,  no  matter  who  they  are  nor 
where  they  are.    I  am    thankful  to 
listen  to  the  teachings  that    I  have 
heard  at  this  Conference  from  the  El- 
ders of  Israel.    I  rejoice  in  the  progress 
that  has  been  made  during  the  past 
year  in  the  Church  abroad.    There  has 
been  an  addition  to  the  Church  that  we 
have  never  met  with  in  any  other  year 
since  the  organization  of  this  Church. 
And  here  at  home  there  has  been  a 
great  addition.  Our  sisters  have  labored 
faithfully  in  the  Primary  Associations, 
in  the  Mutuallmprovement  associations, 
and  in  every  capacity  in  which  they 
are  called  to  labor.    The  blessings  of 
God  are  with  them,  and  they  are  doing 
much  good.    The  Sunday  schools  have 
also  added  to  their    numbers.  They 
have  now  over  one  hundred  thousand 
members.    The    Young   Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  as  has  been 
said,    have     an     addition     of  about 
thirteen  thousand  as  a  result  of  their 
labors  the  past  year.    God  is  blessing 
those  who  labor  among  them.   If  you 
can  save  a  soul  from  death,  what  bless- 
ings you  will  have  with  that  soul.  As 
the  Lord  said  to  Oliver  Cowdery,  "If 
it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your 
days  in  crying  repentance   unto  this 
people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul 
unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy 
with    him    in    the    kingdom  of  my 
Father."     We  should  continue  in  this 
labor,  that  we  may  gain  the  salvation 
of  the  souls  of  men.   Inasmuch  as  you 
will  do  this,  the  blessings  of  God  will 
attend  you.    Zion  has  got  to  arise  or 
fall.      Which      shall      it      be?  The 
proclamation  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ 


is  in  favor  of  Zion.  All  the  revelation* 
appertaining  to  thiB  day  are  in  favor 
of  Zion,  and  of  preparing  the  way  for 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man.  And 
Zion  will  arise  and  shine. 

God  bless  you,  one  and  all.  Let  us 
do  our  duty  and  seek  to  magnify  our 
religion,  that  when  we  get  through  we 
will  rejoice  in  that.  It  is  better  to  be 
on  the  Lord's  side  than  anywhere  else. 
I  want  salvation.  I  want  to  meet  my 
forefathers  and  my  friends  whom  I 
have  labored  here  to  redeem,  who 
never  heard  the  Gospel  in  their  day 
and  generation.  God  has  given  us  this 
privilege.  We  have  Elders  of  Israel 
laboring  in  all  these  temples  day  by 
day  for  the  salvation  of  the  children 
of  men.  We  have  been  blessed  in  this 
labor,  and  we  will  continue  to  be 
blessed;  and  when  we  get  on  the  other 
side  of  the  veil  there  is  not  one  of  us- 
but  will  rejoice  for  the  good  we  have 
done.  May  God  bless  you.  I  feel  to 
bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  far  as 
I  have  power  to  bless.  Our  daughters 
and  our  mothers  are  laboring  for  the 
salvation  of  Israel  in  their  line,  and  sc- 
are the  Elders  of  Israel  in  their  line. 
But  we  want  to  increase  and  continue 
to  increase,  until  we  have  power  in 
the  earth  to  gather  up  all  the  honest 
and  meek  of  the  earth.  God  bless, 
guide  and  direct  us  all  in  the  path  of 
'  truth  and  righteousness,  for  Jesus' 
sake.  Amen. 

At  the  conclusion  of    his  remarks 
the  vast  congregation  arose  en  masse 
and  in  unison  with  the  choir,  sang: 
We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Providential  preservation  of  President  Wrodruff — 
The  Church  controlled  by  the  power  of  God — He 
vindicates  His  servants — Trouble  results  from 
disunion — Selfishness  defeats  Itself — The  Church 
will  be  cleansed. 

The  instructions  that  we  have  heard 
during  this  Conference  have  been  ac- 
companied by  the  testimony  of  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  I  esteem  it  as  a 
great  privilege  that  we  have  had  this 
afternoon  of  listening  to  the  testimony 
of  President  Woodruff.  If  we  have  not 
all  heard  that  which  he  has  said,  we 
shall  have  the  opportunity  of  reading; 
it.  I  think  it  ought  to  be  esteemed  as 
a  great  pleasure  and  satisfaction  for 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Latter-day  Saints  to  hear  his 
testimony.  President  Woodruff  is  the 
only  surviving  Apostle  who  held  the 
Apostleship  at  the  time  the  Prophet 
Joseph  lived.  He  is  the  only  man 
living  who  received  his  endowments 
at  the  hands  of  the  Prophet  Joseph. 
He  is  the  only  Apostle  living  who  en- 
tered this  valley  when  it  was  pene- 
trated by  the  Pioneers.  To  have  him 
survive  as  long  as  he  has,  and  to 
stand  as  a  witness  in  the  midst  of  this 
people,  is  a  great  boon  to  the  Church. 
There  has  been,  without  doubt,  a 
providence  in  his  preservation.  The 
Lord  has  had  a  purpose  to  accomplish. 
His  testimony,  which  has  so  often  been 
borne  and  listened  to  by  the  members 
of  this  Church  will  have  a  lasting  im- 
pression and  influence  upon  the 
Church.  I  am,  therefore,  for  one, 
greatly  pleased  to  hear  him  once  more 
address  a  congregation  so  large  as 
this  at  our  General  Conference.  If  we 
had  been  asked  years  ago  as  to  who 
would  be  likely  of  the  Apostles  to  sur- 
vive until  now,  we  perhaps  would  not 
have  selected  President  Woodruff,  be- 
cause he  was  a  man  advanced  in  years, 
and,  as  he  has  related  to  us  today,  had 
passed  through  so  many  scenes  of 
trial  and  had  labored  so  hard  physi- 
cally, and  had  so  many  narrow  escapes 
for  his  life,  that  it  seemed  almost  im- 
possible that  he  would  survive  all  the 
others.  But,  as  he  has  told  us,  up- 
wards of  fifty  years  ago,  while  in 
Boston  on  a  mission,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  him  concerning  this  Temple. 

He  has  not  related  that  which  I 
have  heard  him  speak  of  at  other 
times.  There  was  a  discussion  con- 
cerning the  material  of  which  this 
Temple  should  be  built.  Some  of  the 
brethren  advocated  one  material,  and 
some  another;  and  it  looked  as  though 
it  would  not  be  built  of  granite.  But 
President  Woodruff  had  seen  it  in 
granite,  and  he  knew  while  this  dis- 
cussion was  in  progress  that  when 
the  Temple  was  built  it  would  be  built 
of  that  material.  He  also  had  dreams 
before  the  Temple  was  finished  con- 
cerning the  duty  that  had  been  as- 
signed to  him.  The  keys  of  the  Temple 
had  been  given  to  him  by  President 
Young,  and  he  was  told  to  open  the 
Temple,  so  that  the  people  might  go 
in. 


Under  all  the  circumstances,  has 
there  not  been  a  providence  in  this? 
Our  God  does  not  permit  things  of 
this  importance  to  happen  haphazard, 
and  without  His  overruling  power 
and  providence  being  manifested.  He 
has  selected  His  servants,  and  He  hae. 
assigned  them  their  labors;  and  He 
will  preserve  them  from  accidents  and 
from  death  until  they  shall  accom- 
plish that  which  they  have  been  sent 
to  perform— to  fulfill  the  mission  that 
has  been  given  unto  them.  There  is 
no  such  thing  as  accident  in  these 
matters.  It  is  not  by  chance  that  these 
occurrences  happen;  but  there  is  a 
providence  which  the  Lord  exercises 
over  His  people  and  over  the  affairs 
of  His  Church,  and  over  all  things 
that  happen.  They  are  controlled  by 
His  power  for  the  accomplishment  of 
His  purposes.  He  gives  unto  us  our 
agency,  and  that  agency  we  can  exer- 
cise to  the  fullest  extent.  There  is  no 
limit  placed  upon  it.  It  is  contrary  to 
His  mind  and  will  and  to  the  plan  ot 
salvation  that  there  should  be  a  limit 
placed  upon  man's  agency  or  upon  its 
exercise.  But  He  controls  the  results. 
As  President  Young  so  often  told  us, 
He  controls  affairs  so  as  to  bring  to 
pass  His  purposes  and  His  designs; 
and  there  is  no  power  that  can  prevail 
against  Him  and  the  fulfillment  of  His 
purposes.  He  supplements  man's 
weakness,  man's  shortsightedness  and 
man's  inability  by  His  strength,  fore- 
knowledge and  almighty  power.  These 
men  whom  He  has  chosen  to  be  His 
Apostles  are  weak,  fallible  men. 

As  President  Woodruff  has  told  us, 
the  Lord  has  chosen  the  weak  things 
of  the  world,  that  they  might  not 
glory  in  themselves  nor  in  their  own 
strength;  and  the  man  that  does 
claim  the  glory  takes  steps  to  destroy 
his  influence  and  to  lose  his  power 
and  gifts.  .  The  Lord  will  not  bless> 
men  who  seek  to  take  the  glory  to 
themselves.  These  men  are  fallible, 
and  subject  to  all  the  infirmities  of 
human  nature;  but  God  has  chosen 
them,  and  when  they  do  the  best  they 
can,  seeking  to  Him  for  His  Spirit,  He 
inspires  them;  and  where  they  come 
short  He  makes  it  up  by  His  blessing. 
That  which  would  seem  to  the  natural 
eye  to  be  a  mistaken  course  or  polic> 
He    overrules    and    controls  for  His 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


35 


glory.  That  has  been  the  course  in 
this  Church  from  the  beginning.  The 
men  that  have  instructed  the  people, 
from  Joseph  himself  down  through  all 
the  ranks  of  the  Priesthood,  have  been 
fallible  men;  their  judgment  has  been 
imperfect;  their  conclusions  have  per- 
haps not  always  been  as  they  should 
have  been;  but  if  they  have  acted  ac- 
cording to  the  light  they  had  and  the 
Spirit  that  God  has  given  them,  and 
they  have  sought  the  Lord  for  His 
blessing  and  guidance,  then  He  takes 
charge  after  that  and  He  brings  to 
pass  according  to  His  own  good  will 
and  pleasure,  and  His  power  and  wis- 
.dom  are  manifested  in  that  which 
takes  place,  so  that  we  are  perfectly 
fe.  If  it  were  not  for  this,  we  would 
be  appalled  at  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  us.  Any  man  who  feels 
the  weight  of  responsibility  and  thinks 
of  the  dreadful  consequences  that 
might  attend  a  misstep,  could  not  en- 
dure it  if  there  were  not  something 
behind  him  to  sustain  and  buoy  him 
up.  President  Woodruff  could  not 
stand  under  the  pressure  of  the  re- 
sponsibility upon  him,  neither  could 
any  other  man  who  may  be  near  him 
or  connected  with  the  Apostleship  and 
the  Priesthood. 

But  there  is  this  reflection  all  the 
time:  God  can  be  trusted.  God  will 
see  to  it  that  His  servants  are  not  put 
to  shame;  that  they  do  not  become  a 
spectacle  in  the  midst  of  the  people — 
before  the  Saints  or  before  the  world. 
He  has  never  left  His  servants  at  any 
time.  God  be  thanked  this  day  for 
this!  He  has  never  allowed  them  to 
be  covered  with  shame  and  confusion 
through  failure.  But  He  has  sustained 
them,  and  He  has  borne  them  off  vic- 
torious, under  all  circumstances,  when 
they  have  served  Him  and  appealed 
to  His  Holy  Spirit  to  guide  them. 
And  He  will  do  it  from  this  time  forth 
until  the  Lord  Himself  comes  to  reign 
on  the  earth.  This  will  be  the  result 
if  we  continue  to  serve  Him.  Hence 
it  is  that  the  people  are  required  by 
the  Lord — with  these  evidences  before 
them  of  what  God  has  done  and  the 
predictions  that  have  been  fulfilled — 
to  listen  to  the  voice  of  His  servants, 
to  accept  their  counsels,  to  seek  for 
His  word  through  them,  because  He 
has  given  them  power  and  the  author- 


ity, standing  in  His  stead  in  the  midst 
of  the  people,  with  the  full  weight  of 
responsibility  upon  them.  Let  me  ask 
tins  congregation,  can  you  put  your 
finger  on  a  time  when  the  people  of 
this  Church  have  listened  to  the  coun- 
sel of  the  servants  of  God  that  they 
have  had  reason  to  repent  of  it?  Tou 
all  know  that  no  such  thing  has  ever 
occurred.  In  every  instance,  in  the 
deepest  peril,  under  the  most  trying 
and  dark  circumstances,  when  the  peo- 
ple have  listened  to  counsel  God  has 
delivered  them  and  brought  them 
through  safely.  This  you  all  know. 
Hence  it  is  that  God  designs  and  de- 
sires that  His  Saints  shall  listen  to 
the  voice  of  revelation,  to  the  voice  of 
His  Prophet,  to  the  voice  of  men 
whom  He  has  called  to  act  in  His 
stead  in  the  midst  of  the  people.  And 
great  condemnation  will  fall  upon 
those  who  do  not  do  this. 

Of  all  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth  we  should  be  the  most  united. 
In  union  is  our  strength.  But  we  are 
not  united  as  we  should  be.  And  it 
is  this  that  brings  trouble  to  us.  The 
disunion  of  the  people  is  the  source  of 
all  our  trouble.  The  Lord  desires  to 
have  us  a  united  people,  the  people 
that  will  listen  to  His  voice.  And 
what  does  this  mean?  Does  it  mean 
tyranny?  Does  it  mean  oppression? 
Does  it  mean  the  taking  away  of  any 
human  being's  rights?  Does  it  en- 
croach upon  the  liberty  of  any  soul? 
No,  it  does  not.  It  never  has.  Tt 
never  will,  because  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Son  of  God  is  not  a  tyrant.  The 
operations  of  that  Priesthood  are 
beneficent  under  all  circumstances. 
Look  at  the  prosperity  of  this  people. 
See  how  God  has  blessed  them  when 
they  have  listened  to  counsel  and  been 
guided  aright.  All  our  prosperity  is 
traceable  to  this.  Our  misfortunes  are 
traceable  to  our  disobedience  and  neg- 
lect. Everyone  knows  this  that  has 
any  faith  whatever  in  the  work  of 
God.  There  is  nothing  asked  of  any 
man  that  he  cannot  do  with  the  ut- 
most pleasure  and  with  the  freest  ex- 
ercise of  his  agency.  It  has  been  so 
from  the  beginning,  and  it  will  be  so  to 
the  end. 

We  were  told  this  morning,  by 
Brother  A.  O.  Woodruff,  of  the  division 
there  is  among  the  people  in  many 


3« 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


directions.  It  is  a  pitiable  sight  that 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  there 
should  be  such  things,  such  division, 
such  selfishness,  such  injury  done  by 
one  to  another.  It  is  wrong,  and  we 
should  avoid  it.  It  is  contrary  to  the 
will  of  God  that  we  should  be  in  this 
condition.  We  grieve  His  Holy  Spirit 
when  we  yield  to  this  spirit  that  di- 
vides us  and  arrays  us  one  against 
another.  "We  ought  to  understand  that 
selfishness  defeats  itself;  that  God  will 
bless  men  who  love  His  work  and  love 
their  fellow  men,  and  who  do  not  al- 
low selfishness  to  predominate  in  their 
hearts.  That  has  to  be  extinguished 
among  •  the  Latter-day  Saints,  if  we 
ever  would  be  the  people  that  God  has 
said  we  shall  be.  I  believe  the  Lord 
will  weed  out  from  our  midst  all  who 
contribute  to  this  division  among  the 
people  of  God  and  who  will  not  dis- 
miss these  evil  influences.  Unless  we 
are  a  united  people  we  will  not  pros- 
per temporally;  we  cannot  prosper 
spiritually.  We  must  love  the  Lord 
with  all  our  heart,  and  we  must  love 
our  brethren  as  we  do  ourselves.  If 
we  do  not  attain  to  that  we  cannot 
reach  the  standard  He  has  raised  for 
us.  I  do  not  expect  that  any  of  us  will 
get  into  the  celestial  kingdom  until  we 
have  this  Spirit  and  are  imbued  with 
it  and  carry  it  out  literally  in  all  our 
associations  and  dealings  with  our 
fellow  men— until,  in  fact,  we  shall  be 
a  united  people,  living  in  the  United 
Order,  which  must  be  established  be- 
fore the  reign  of  righteousness  can  be 
ushered  in. 

We  come  to  these  General  Confer- 
ences to  be  instructed  in  these  prin- 
ciples, to  have  our  minds  refreshed, 
to  hear  the  testimony  of  the  servants 
of  God,  and  we  ought  to  go  away  im- 
pressed with  these  principles,  and 
profiting  by  them  sufficiently  that  we 
will  make  them  a  part  of  our  lives. 
We  have  been  called  as  Latter-day 
Saints.  By  the  miraculous  power  of 
God  we  have  been  gathered  from  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  It  is  the  greatest 
miracle,  it  may  be  said,  that  ever  was 
seen  by  the  human  family.  It  is  stu- 
pendous. It  is  something  unexampled 
in  the  history  of  our  race.  And  there 
is  a  grand  purpose  in  it,  which  God 
has  revealed.  He  is  gathering  from 
the  nations  of  the  earth  the  elements 
that  are  necessary  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion for  a  new  era,  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  for  the 
establishment  of  the  reign  of  righteous- 


ness. Yet,  notwithstanding,  the  na- 
tions behold  it,  Satan  darkens  their 
eyes  so  that  they  cannot  see  its  grand 
import.  But  to  us  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed this.  And  there  is  this  remark- 
able fact  connected  with  this:  almost 
every  man  and  woman  that  comes 
from  the  nations  has,  himself  and  her- 
self, received  a  testimony  that  they 
ought  to  do  this.  They  have  done  it 
under  a  divine  impulse;  not  by  any 
human  force  that  has  been  brought  to 
bear  upon  them,  but  by  an  inward 
force  that  has  appealed  to  their  souls, 
coming  to  them  irresistibly  from  God. 
These  elements  are  being  gathered 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth  in  this 
miraculous  manner  to  accomplish  the 
purposes  of  our  God.  But  there  will 
be  a  cleansing  in  the  floor— in  the  gar- 
ner, as  it  were.  The  work  of  cleansing 
is  now  going  on.  The  net  gathers  a 
great  many  kinds  of  fish;  but  the  bad 
fish  will  be  thrown  out.  Having  re- 
ceived these  testimonies,  and  being  in 
a  position  to  know  for  ourselves  con- 
cerning the  work  of  God,  it  is  for  us 
to  square  our  lives  to  make  them  agree 
with  the  principles  of  righteousness. 
As  was  read  this  afternoon,  "My  Spirit 
shall  not  always  strive  with  man,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts."  There  never  has 
been  a  time  in  this  Church  since  it3 
organization  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  preached  to  with 
such  diligence  as  they  have  been  of 
late.  The  Twelve  Apostles  are  travel- 
ing constantly,  visiting  conferences, 
and  the  other  brethren  that  are  active- 
ly engaged  in  the  ministry  are  doing 
the  same.  The  people  are  being 
warned  and  taught,  it  seems  to  me, 
with  a  diligence  and  with  a  faith  and 
power  that  I  have  never  seen  before 
in  the  Church.  I  do  not  think  the 
Church  ever  was  preached  to  as  it  is 
being  preached  to  now.  And  this  can- 
not be  done  without  condemnation  fol- 
lowing those  who  resist  the  influence 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  who  harden 
their  hearts  against  the  teachings  of 
God's  servants. 

God  help  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  faithful  to  the  truth,  to  cling  to  it, 
to  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts, 
to  serve  Him  with  all  the  diligence  we 
can;  which  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem. 

Light  and  Truth. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 


THIRD  DAY. 


April  8th,  10  a.m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 
On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call, 
Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 
Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  All! 

Prayer  by  Elder  John  W.  Hess. 
The  hymn  which  begins, 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 

Zion  kept  by  power  divine, 
was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

The  Path  of  Duty  Leads  to  Prosperity— Need  for 
Retrenchment — Future  Expansion  of  Missionary 
Work. 

It  is  always  a  little  difficult  for  me 
to  start  out  upon  a  high  key,  and  I 
have  discovered  that  it  is  more  or  less 
the  case  with  others.  However,  if  you 
will  give  me  your  attention  and  your 
prayers  and  faith,  I  hope  to  be  able  to 
make  you  all  hear  the  few  minutes  I 
shall  occupy  your  attention.  I  have 
been  much  interested  in  our  Confer- 
ence, and  can  say  that  I  heartily  en- 
dorse the  remarks  that  have  thus  far 
been  made  in  our  hearing.  I  was  very 
much  interested  in  the  remarks  of  our 
President  on  yesterday,  though  it  is  not 
very  pleasant  to  contemplate  the  scenes 
that  he  has  passed  through;  the 
troubles  and  ordeals,  going  through 
waterwheels,  having  bones  broken  and 
all  this;  and  I  conclude  that  Very  few 
people  could,  under  such  circum- 
stances, endure  for  a  long  time. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  this  work.  I 
know  it  is  true.  I  know  the  Lord  is 
with  His  people;  the  manifestations  of 
His  power  are  realized  and  felt 
by  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Of 
all  people  we  have  the  most  reason  to 
be  grateful  and  thankful  to  our 
Heaveny  Father.  While,  perhaps,  our 
financial  condition  as  a  body  is  not  so 
desirable  as  we  would  like  it,  yet  I 
believe  that  we  are  as  well  off  financial- 
ly, and  perhaps  better  off,  than  people 
in  other  states  of  our  Union.  It  is  won- 
derful to  me,  when  I  contemplate  the 
affairs  of  our  people,  to  realize  the 
vast  amount  of  money  that  goes  from 
us  in  the  transportation  and  support  of 
our  Elders  on  missions  abroad,  and  in 


the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  our  of- 
ferings.   This  is  a  condition  that  many 
people  do  not  realize,  and  they  do  not 
have  to  cope  with  these  things.  The 
Lord,  however,  requires  these  conditions 
at  our  hands,  and  apparently  He  opens 
up  the  way  and  provides  the  means 
whereby  these  things  are  accomplished. 
The    Elders    are     sent      out,  their 
fares    are    paid,    they   are  supported 
by  their  friends  while  abroad;  and  it 
all  costs  money,  and  the  money  ooraes 
from    somewhere.     The  Lord  through 
His    providences    opens    up  the  way 
whereby    these    things    are  accom- 
plished.     I    was    conversing  with  a 
brother  some  three  or  four  years  ago, 
I  think  at  the  Conference  in  this  city, 
and  he  was  telling  me  his  condition. 
He  was  very  much  depressed  finan- 
cially.   He  had  been  under  the  neces- 
sity    (he    thought)  to  mortgage  his 
home,  and  he    was  very  much  embar- 
rassed.   He  felt  very  bad  over  it,  so 
much  so  that  he  could  hardly  enjoy 
the  Spirit  of  the  Conference.    He  was 
a  very  intimate  friend  of  mine,  and 
he  asked  me  what  to  do.    I  told  him 
that  I  believed  that  I  could  tell  him 
what  to  do  to  extricate  himself.  He 
said  he  would  be  very  glad  to  know 
what    to    do  that    he  might  be  free 
again.    I  said,   "have  you  paid  your 
tithing    of    late    years?"    "Well,"  he 
said,  "no,  not  so  strictly  as  I  ought  to 
have  done."    I  told  him  I  thought  that 
was  one  cause  of  his  financial  trouble. 
I  said  to  him,  "you  go  home  now,  and 
pay  your  tithing  strictly,  as  you  re- 
ceive   it;    don't    you  sign  any  more 
notes    to    anybody;  don't  give  mort- 
gages on  any  more  of  your  property; 
curtail    your    expenses    at  home,  re- 
trench a  little,  for  I  believe  there  is 
room    for    retrenchment;    pay  your 
tithing;  trust  in  the  Lord,  and  ways 
will  be  opened  up  whereby  you  may 
extricate  yourself."    I  met  him  at  this 
Conference,  and  he  said  that  he  wa3 
getting  along  finely.    He  has  near.'y 
all  of  his  debts  paid,  and  he  has  lift- 
ed the  mortgage  from  his  homo.  I 
said,  "then  you  have  paid  your  tith- 
ing, have  you?"    He  said,  "yes,  paid 
my  tithing  strictly  and  honestly." 
I  believe  there  is  a  principle  in  this. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  is  said  that  Paul  may  plant  and 
Apollos  may  water,  but  the  Lord  gl\- 
eth  the  increase.  And  I  have  conclud- 
ed from  my  experience  that  the  Lord 
is  able  to.  The  Lord  gives  us  the 
increase.  He  blesses  some  people 
abundantly  for  a  wise  purpose  in 
Himself.  We  cannot  always  compre- 
hend why  he  blesses  some  men  above 
other  men,  but  there  is  a  purpose  in 
it,  and  I  am  just  as  confident  as  I  am 
that  I  am  standing  before  you,  that 
if  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  this  very 
day,  will  pay  their  tithes  honestly  and 
strictly,  and  cease  to  mortgage  their 
homes,  cease  to  incur  obligations  as 
individuals,  and  begin  a  system  of  re- 
trenchment in  all  their  homes,  the 
Lord  will  prosper  them  and  they  will 
be  free  from  debt — for  is  there  a  fam- 
ily in  Israel  that  cannot  retrench  a 
little?  I  know  that  it  can  be  done;  and 
if  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  do  these 
things  as  a  people,  the  time  is  not  far 
distant  when  we  will  be  relieved  from 
our  financial  troubles.  The  Church 
will  also  be  relieved  of  its  financial 
troubles.  Why  is  the  Church  finan- 
cially depressed?  Because  we  are 
financially  depressed.  We  are  the 
Church— the  people  of  the  Church,  and 
if  we  will  retrench  and  observe  the 
rules  of  propriety  in  regard  to  our 
family  affairs  I  believe  that  we  all 
may  be  relieved;  and  I  believe  the 
time  is  not  far  distant  when  it  may  be 
said  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
they  are  lenders  of  money  and  not  bor- 
rowers. This  should  be  our  situation. 
Now  the  evidence  is  before  the  people 
that  we  come  far  short  of  what  the 
Lord  requires  at  our  hands  in  tithes 
and  offerings.  I  heard  President 
Young  once  say  in  the  old  Tabernacle 
here,  "if  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
pay  their  tithes  honestly,  every  man 
and  every  family,  I  will  pay  all  their 
taxes,  their  school  bills  and  their  gen- 
eral expenses."  It  is  evident  that  the 
people  did  not  do  it.  We  may  search 
the  Church  from  one  end  to  the  other, 
we  mav  search  the  records,  and  we 
will  find  that  there  are  not  many  men, 
(of  course  there  are  some,  and  perhaps 
a  good  number)  that  pay  their  tithing 
in  full.  A  large  majority  of  the  people, 
I  believe,  come  short  in  this,  and  they 
think  they  are  doing  pretty  well  too. 
They  make  themselves  think  they  are 


doing  pretty  well  in  paying  their  tithes 
and  offerings.  This  principle  of  tith- 
ing was  not  instituted  by  man.  The 
authorities  of  the  Church  have  not  in- 
stituted it,  God  revealed  it  in  the 
early  history  of  the  Church,  and  He 
made  it  a  requirement  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  It  is  a  law  of  the  Lord, 
-nd  it  is  important  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  live  up  to  the  law,  that  this 
land  may  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  the 
people. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  make 
you  a  promise  in  my  own  name,  that 
if  you  will  observe  these  things,  begin 
now  to  pay  your  tithes  and  your 
offerings  in  full,  if  you  will  cease  to 
sign  notes,  if  you  will  cease  to  give 
mortgages  on  your  homes,  and  re- 
trench from  this  time  forth,  and  turn 
to  the  Lord  with  full  purpose  of  heart, 
I  will  promise  you  that  the  way  will 
be  opened  up  and  every  faithful  man 
and  woman  will  be  able  to  extricate 
himself  and  herself,  and  the  time  will 
be  in  your  life  time,  when  you  will  be 
a  free  people.  There  are  some  few  peo- 
ple that  are  free  now,  and  they  do  not 
owe  any  man  anything,  and  they  are 
happy  and  contented;  but  too  many  of 
the  people  have  mortgages  on  their 
homes.  I  have  always  raised  my  voice 
against  mortgaging  and  obligating 
ourselves.  Wait  until  we  have  the 
means  and  then  make  the  purchase, 
and  do  not  make  the  purchase  until 
we  have  the  means.  Do  you  not  know 
that  the  whole  system  of  our  banking 
institutions  in  our  midst  is  based  upon 
the  interest  paid  by  the  people  for 
money  borrowed?  It  is  not  a  good 
thing,  in  my  view,  for  individuals  to 
do.  It  may  be  justifiable  in  the  case 
of  some  large  enterprise  that  would 
benefit  the  country  and  people,  but  as 
a  rule  for  individuals  to  pattern  after 
large  corporations,  they  will  fail  if 
they  do  it.  How  many  people  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  in  the  country,  have 
lost  their  homes,  their  families  turned 
out  without  a  shelter  over  their  heads, 
because,  peradventure,  they  have  been 
unwise!  They  thought  they  were  go- 
ing to  make  a  great  deal  of  money  by 
some  speculation,  and  they  have  failed. 
The  Lord  did  not  bless  the  enterprise, 
and  unless  the  Lord  does  so  we  will 
fail  every  time;  no  matter  whether  it 
be    Jews    or    Gentiles,  or  Latter-day 


ELDER  MARRJNER  MERRILL. 


39 


Saints,  that  enter  into  it.  But  if  the 
Lord  will  bless  the  enterprise  it  will 
be  a  success.  As  a  rule,  however,  it 
has  not  been  the  counsel  of  the 
Priesthood,  so  far  as  I  have  learned, 
for  the  people  to  obligate  themselves 
beyond  that  which  they  were  able  to 
meet  at  any  time. 

This  system  of  retrenchment  is  im- 
portant and  necessary.  Not  only  here 
in  the  city,  but  everywhere  through- 
out the  country,  we  see  extravagance 
among  the  Saints,  and  carelessness 
and  indifference  with  regard  to  the 
things  that  the  Lord  blesses  us  with. 
There  is  extravagance  in  the  house- 
hold; there  is  not  that  care  and  at- 
tention bestowed  that  ought  to  be. 
You  will  excuse  me  if  I  talk  about 
myself  and  my  own  family,  but  I  am 
reminded  of  an  incident  that  occurred 
with  me  a  few  years  ago.  I  had  a 
brother  who  emigrated  from  England, 
working  at  my  place.  He  had  left  his 
family  there  and  had  not  the  means 
to  get  them  out.  He  said  to  me  one 
day,  "I  wish  my  family  could  go  to 
your  swill  barrel;  they  would  get 
plenty  of  food  right  from  it  to  supply 
them."  It  set  me  to  thinking.  Do 
my  family  waste  things  like  that?  Do 
they  waste  provisions  to  such  an  ex- 
tent that  this  man  and  his  family 
could  live  out  of  the  swill  barrel?  I 
began  to  examine  the  matter  a  little, 
and  I  had  to  talk  a  little  about  it.  I 
not  only  found  it  was  profitable  to 
talk  at  home,  but  also  to  talk  among 
my  friends  and  neighbors.  There  ha& 
been  more  or  less  of  extravagances 
financially;  it  is  very  important  that 
nothing  should  be  wasted.  President 
Young  used  to  talk  about  these  things 
everywhere  he  went.  I  have  heard  hliu 
in  the  settlements  of  Saints  caution- 
ing the  people  to  be  prudent,  and  to  be 
careful  with  the  means  that  the  Lord 
had  blessed  them  with.  I  believe  we 
ought  to  observe  this  counsel,  and  if 
we  will  do  it,  as  I  said  before,  I  think 
we  may  rely  upon  it  that  the  Lord  will 
open  up  our  way  whereby  we  may  be 
relieved.  President  Cannon  was  al- 
most on  the  point  of  saying  so,  the 
other  day.  I  felt  the  spirit  that  he 
was  possessed  of,  that  he  felt  to  prom- 
ise the  people  that  the  time  would 
come  when  we  would  be  in  a  different 
condition. 


We  are  trying  to  do  the  Lord's 
work,  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
world.  We  are  sending  out  a  few  mis- 
sionaries, but,  I  tell  you,  so  far  as  i 
can  see  in  the  future,  and  understand 
the  future,  we  are  not  sending  out  a 
drop  in  the  bucket  today,  to  what  we 
will  send  out  in  the  future.  Only 
think  of  it  for  a  moment.  We  have, 
it  is  said,  1,700  Elders  abroad  in  the 
world.  Take  these  1,700  Elders,  cut 
them  in  two,  place  half  in  London  and 
half  in  New  York,  two  of  the  great 
cities  of  the  world,  and  the  people  of 
these  cities  would  hardly  know  there 
was  an  Elder  among  them,  because  the 
inhabitants  are  so  numerous.  But  we 
are  doing  the  best  we  can  in  regard 
to  this  matter,  and  the  work  is  in- 
creasing and  progressing  and  spread- 
ing abroad,  and  the  Gospel  of  the 
Kingdom  will  eventually  be  preached 
as  a  witness  to  all  people  and  all  na- 
tions. We  are  here  to  do  that,  ana 
we  want  to  train  our  sons  and  prepare 
them  to  be  honorable  representatives 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  do  not 
want  to  send  men  out  that  are  not 
honorable  men.  We  want  young  men 
to  go  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  this 
work,  and  we  would  like  them  to  have 
a  testimony  from  the  Lord  before  they 
so  and  be  able  to  give  a  reason  for  the 
hope  they  have  within  them.  Then 
when  they  go  into  their  fields  of  labor 
they  are  prepared  to  at  once  take 
hold  of  the  work.  They  go  to  teach 
the  world;  they  do  not  go  to  be  taugh* 
by  the  world.  They  go  from  Zion 
blessed  under  the  hands  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God,  to  teach  the  Gospel  and 
to  warn  the  world.  Young  men  must 
remember  that  they  are  not  sent  abroad 
to  be  taught  of  the  world,  but  we 
must  be  acquainted  with  some  of  the 
principles  and  doctrines  of  the  Church, 
in  order  to  set  before  the  people  thosw 
principles  and  doctrines  that  God  has 
revealed  for  the  salvation  and  redemp- 
tion of  the  human  family. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  that  we 
may  reflect  upon  all  these  things  and 
consider  our  affairs.  We  are  here  in 
this  General  Conference  from  the 
different  parts  of  the  State  and  from 
the  states  surrounding  us.  We  are 
here  to  be  taught;  to  have  our  minds 
stirred  up  by  way  of  remembrance  of 
the  duties  and  responsibilities  that  rest 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
a  peculiar  people— that  peculiar  peo- 
ple which  Isaiah  spoke  of,  and  we  are 
here  to  learn  the  way  of  the  Lord. 
Whether  this  teaching  be  temporal  or 
whether  it  be  spiritual  it  is  all  the 
same  for  us  in  the  advancement  of 
this  work.  We  have  to  be  engaged  in 
temporal  affairs  as  well  as  in  spiritual 
affairs  to  bring  about  the  consumma- 
tion of  God's  purposes  in  the  earth. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  God  may 
be  upon  Zion,  and  upon  her  Stakes, 
that  the  spirit  of  humility  may  possess 
our  souls;  that  we  may  have  an  op- 
portunity to  be  taught,  to  be  instruct- 
ed and  to  follow  in  the  counsels  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God;  then 
we  are  safe,  we  are  upon  the  sure 
foundation;  our  house  is  founded  upon 
the  rock,  and  when  the  winds  come  and 
the  rains  beat  upon  it,  it  will  stand 
unmoved;  but  if  we  are  tossed  to  and 
fro  by  every  wind  of  doctrine,  and 
follow  after  "Christian  Science"  or 
some  other  myth  or  folly,  we  shall  not 
be  saved.  As  one  of  the  brethren 
we  have  all  in  the  Church  of 
Christ  that  will  exalt  and  ennoble  us. 
Our  insurance  agencies  in  the  Church 
are  safe  and  sure,  and  if  we  are  faith- 
ful in  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God  we  will  be  sure  of  eternal  lives. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

A  field  of    usefullness  for  women — Divine  agen. 
cies  at  work. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  guides  us 
in  the  ways  of  all  truth  will  direct 
me  in  what  I  shall  say  this  morning. 
I  bear  testimony  to  the  advice  that 
has  been  given  unto  us  by  Elder  Mer- 
rill. I  was  pleased  with  the  remarks 
that  were  given  on  the  first  day  of  this 
Conference,  because  they  partook  ot 
the  spirit  of  encouragement.  I  feel 
encouraged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  can  see  that  the  spirit  which 
the  brethren  are  imbued  with  is  sim- 
ilar to  that  which  was  possessed  by 
Nephi,  the  Prophet,  while  going  up 
to  the  city  of  Jerusalem  to  get  the  rec- 
ord of  his  forefathers.  His  brothers 
protested  against  him  going  for  this 
purpose,  and  he  answered  them  in  this 
wise: 


"That  as  the  Lord  liveth,  and  as  we 
live,  we  will  not  go  down  unto  out 
father  in  the  wilderness,  until  we  have 
accomplished  the  thing  which  the 
Lord  hath  commanded  us." 

When  I  heard  President  Cannon 
speaking  about  the  success  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord  I  could  see  he  partook  of 
the  same  spirit,  and  the  brethren  that 
have  followed  him  since  the  first  day 
have  also  manifested  that  spirit.  1 
have  been  considerably  impressed  by 
all  the  remarks  that  have  been  made, 
and  I  feel  that  any  one  who  has  not 
been  melted  and  made  tender  and  pli- 
able by  that  which  has  been  said, 
must  be  as  -"old  as  an  iceberg. 

I  desire  to  touch  upon  the  idea  pre- 
sented by  President  Cannon,  that  oc- 
casionally wise  and  prudent  women 
would  be  permitted  to  go  forth  and 
accompany  their  husbands  in  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  I  have  been  away  on  mission- 
ary labor,  more  or  less,  for  some 
months  past;  our  experience  is,  espe- 
cially during  the  pleasant  warm  weath- 
er, that  about  one-half  of  the  men  in 
the  country  are  away  to  the  mines, 
they  are  absent  from  home  looking  af- 
ter their  business,  and  it  would  be  im- 
prudent for  us  to  teach  men's  wives, 
and  to  take  them  into  the  waters  of 
baptism  without  the  consent  of  then 
husbands.  A  great  number  of  men 
in  the  Western  States  and  territories 
are  away  from  home,  and  leave  their 
wives  for  a  season.  It  would  not  be 
wise  for  Elders  to  enter  such  homes, 
in  fact,  they  are  advised  against  this 
and  they  observe  this  counsel.  The> 
do  not  go  to  the  homes  of  women 
where  the  husbands  are  absent,  or 
where  there  are  no  men  folks  living 
in  the  house.  What  is  the  result?  The 
result  is  there  are  thousands  of  fami- 
lies to  whom  we  cannot  explain  our 
views,  simply  because  there  are  no 
men  at  home;  they  probably  would  re- 
ceive us  with  pleasure  and  listen  to 
our  message  if  it  were  practicable  to 
visit  them.  But  I  can  see  now  the 
possibility  of  this  being  corrected.  I 
have  in  view  now,  one  of  the  sisters 
that  was  laboring  in  the  state  of  Colo- 
rado. In  the  district  where  she  re- 
sided there  were  some  five  families 
where  the  husbands  were  away  from 
home.     She  became  acquainted  with 


ELDER  JOHN  W  TAYLOR. 


4i 


those  families.  She  distributed  tracts, 
in  their  midst,  and  they  came  to  un- 
derstand our  views  in  regard  to  our 
religion,  but  so  far  as  the  Elders 
are  concerned  these  families  would 
have  been  passed  by.  There  are 
probably  thousands  of  families  in  this 
condition.  I  iust  mention  this  to  cor- 
roborate the  remarks  of  President 
Cannon,  and  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
good  work  that  women  can  do. 

I  feel  to  rejoice  in  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  and  in  hearing  of  the 
great  success  of  the  Elders  of  Israel 
abroad.  I  was  struck  very  much  with 
a  remark  made  yesterday  by  Elder 
Roberts;  it  was  a  very  slight  remark, 
but  it  impressed  me.  He  said  that 
God  had  witnesses  upon  the  earth  of 
His  work.  The  witnesses  Elder  Rob- 
erts referred  to,  I  presume,  were  the 
Elders  of  Israel  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood and  have  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  desire  to  read  to  you  about 
other  witnesses  which  possibly  he  did 
not  have  in  his  mind.  I  find  in  the 
28th  chapter  of  the  Third  Book  of 
Nephi.  the  following,  spoken  by  Jesus 
Christ  unto  the  Twelve  Apostles  upon 
this  continent: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  when  Jesus  had 
said  these  words,  he  spake  unto  his 
disciples,  one  by  one,  saying  unto 
them,  What  is  it  that  ye  desire  of  me, 
after  that  I  am  gone  to  the  Father? 

"And  they  all  spake,  save  it  were 
three,  we  desire  that  after  we  have 
lived  unto  the  age  of  man,  that  our 
ministry,  wherein  thou  hast  called  us, 
may  have  an  end,  that  we  may  speedi- 
ly come  unto  thee,  in  thy  kingdom. 

"And  He  said  unto  them,  Blessed  are 
ye,  because  ye  desired  this  thing  of 
me;  therefore  after  that  ye  are  seven- 
ty and  two  years  old,  ye  shall  come 
unto  me  in  my  kingdom,  and  with  me 
ye  shall  find  rest. 

"And  when  He  had  spoken  unto  them, 
he  turned  himself  unto  the  three,  and 
said  unto  them,  What  will  ye  that  1 
should  do  unto  you,  when  I  am  gone 
unto  the  Father? 

"And  they  sorrowed  in  their  hearts, 
for  they  durst  not  speak  unto  Him  the 
thing  which  they  desired. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Behold,  1 
know  your  thoughts,  and  ye  have  de- 
sired the  thing  which  John,  my  be- 
loved, who  was  with  me  in  my  minis- 


try, before  that  I  was  lifted  up  ;>y 
the  Jews,  desired  of  me; 

"Therefore  more  blessed  are  ye,  for 
ye  shall  never  taste  of  death,  but  ye 
shall  live  to  behold  all  the  doings  of 
the  Father,  unto  the  children  of  men, 
even  until  all  things  shall  be  fulfilled, 
according  to  the  will  of  the  Father, 
when  I  shall  come  in  my  glory,  with 
the  powers  of  heaven; 

"And  ye  shall  never  endure  the  pains 
of  death;  but  when  I  shall  come  in  my 
glory,  ye  shall  be  changed  in  the  twin- 
kling of  an  eye  from  mortality  to  im- 
mortality: and  then  shall  ye  be  blessed 
in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father. 

"And  again,  ye  shall  not  have  pain 
while  ye  shall  dwell  in  the  flesh,  nei- 
ther sorrow,  save  it  be  for  the  sins 
of  the  world:  and  all  this  will  I  do  be- 
cause of  the  thing  which  ye  have  de- 
sired of  me,  for  ye  have  desired  that 
ye  might  bring  the  souls  of  men  unto 
me,  while  the  world  shall  stand; 

"And  for  this  cause  ye  shall  have 
fullness  of  joy;  and  ye  shall  sit  down  in 
the  kingdom  of  my  Father;  yea,  your 
joy  shall  be  full,  even  as  the  Father 
hath  given  me  fullness  of  joy;  and  ye 
shall  be  even  as  I  am,  and  I  am  even 
as  the  Father;  and  the  Father  and  1 
are  one; 

"And  the  Holy  Ghost  beareth  record 
of  the  Father  and  me;  and  the  Father 
giveth  the  Holy  Ghost  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  because  of  me. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Je- 
sus had  spoken  these  words  He  touched 
every  one  of  them  with  his  finger,  save 
it  were  the  three  who  were  to  tarry, 
and  then  He  departed. 

"And  behold,  the  heavens  were 
opened,  and  they  were  caught  up  into 
heaven,  and  saw  and  heard  unspeak- 
able things. 

"And  it  was  forbidden  them  that 
they  should  utter;  neither  was  it  given 
unto  them  power  that  they  could  utter 
the  things  which  they  saw  and  heard; 

"And  whether  they  were  in  the  body 
or  out  of  the  body,  they  could  not  tell; 
for  it  did  seem  unto  them  like  a  trans- 
figuration of  them,  that  they  were 
changed  from  this  body  of  flesh  into 
an  immortal  state,  that  they  could  be- 
hold the  things  of  God. 

"But  it  came  to  pass  that  they  did 
again  minister  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth:  nevertheless  they  did  not  min- 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


lster  of  the  things  which  they  had 
heard  and  seen,  because  of  the  com- 
mandment which  was  given  them  in 
heaven. 

"And  now  whether  they  were  mortal 
or  immortal,  from  the  day  of  their 
transfiguration,  I  know  not; 

"But  this  much  I  know,  according 
to  the  record  which  hath  been  given, 
they  did  go  forth  upon  the  face  of  the 
land,  and  did  minister  unto  all  the  peo- 
ple.uniting  as  many  to  the  Church  that 
would  believe  in  their  preaching;  bap- 
tizing them;  and  as  many  as  were 
baptized,  did  receive  the  Holy  Ghost; 

"And  they  were  cast  into  prison  by 
them  who  did  not  belong  to  the  Church. 
And  the  prisons  could  not  hold  them, 
for  they  were  rent  in  twain, 

"And  they  were  cast  down  into  the 
earth.  But  they  did  smite  the  earth 
with  the  word  of  God,  insomuch  that 
by  his  power  they  were  delivered  out 
of  the  depths  of  the  earth;  and  there- 
fore they  could  not  dig  pits  sufficient 
to  hold  them. 

"And  thrice  they  were  cast  into  a 
furnace,  and  received  no  harm. 

"And  twice  were  they  cast  into  a  den 
of  wild  beasts;  and  behold  they  did 
play  with  the  beasts,  as  a  child  with 
a  suckling  lamb,  and  received  no 
harm. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  thus  they 
did  go  forth  among  all  the  people  of 
Nephi,  and  did  preach  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  unto  all  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  land;  and  they  were  converted 
unto  the  Lord,  and  were  united  unto 
the  Church  of  Christ,  and  thus  the  peo» 
pie  of  that  generation  were  blessed,  ac- 
cording to  the  word  of  Jesus. 

"And  how  I,  Mormon,  make  an  end 
of  speaking  concerning  these  things 
for  a  time. 

"Behold,  I  was  about  to  write  the 
names  of  those  who  were  never  to 
taste  of  death;  but  the  Lord  forbade, 
therefore  I  write  them  not,  for  they 
are  hid  from  the  world. 

"But  behold  I  have  seen  them,  and 
they  have  ministered  unto  me; 

"And  behold  they  will  be  among  the 
Gentiles,  and  the  Gentiles  knoweth 
them  not. 

"They  will  also  be  among  the  Jews, 
and  the  Jews  shall  know  them  not. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  the 
Lord  seeth  fit  in  His  wisdom,  that  they 
shall  minister  unto    all  the  scattered 


tribes  of  Israel,  and  unto  all  nations, 
kindreds,  tongues  and  people,  and  shall 
bring  out  of  them  unto  Jesus  many 
souls,  that  their  desire  may  be  ful- 
filled, and  also  because  of  the  convinc- 
ing power  of  God  which  is  in  them." 

It  seems  that  these  men  shall  have 
a  peculiar  endowment,  and  that  en- 
dowment shall  be  the  convincing  pow- 
er of  God. 

"And  they  are  as  the  angels  of  God, 
and  if  they  shall  pray  unto  the  Father 
in  the  name  of  Jesus,  they  can  shew 
themselves  unto  whatsoever  man  it 
seemeth  them  good; 

"Therefore  great  and  marvelous 
works  shall  be  wrought  by  them,  be- 
fore the  great  and  coming  day,  when 
all  people  must  surely  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  Christ; 

"Yea  even  among  the  Gentiles  shall 
there  be  a  great  and  marvelous  work 
wrought  by  them,  before  that  judg- 
ment day." 

Now,  you  wonder  why  so  many  Gen- 
tiles are  turning  their  hearts  toward 
the  truth.  We  can  learn  that  there  is  a 
change  brought  about  by  agencies  in 
addition  to  the  witnesses  that  were 
spoken  of  yesterday  by  Elder  Roberts. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JONATHAN  GOLDEN  KIM- 
BALL. 

Thoughts  on  temporal    interests— The    need  of 
being  devotional  and  self-sacrificing. 

I  readily  discover,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  congregation  do  hun- 
ger and  thirst  for  the  word  of  God, 
and  it  is  through  this  that  the  Apostles 
and  those  that  have  spoken  unto  you 
have  been  given  such  great  liberty, 
and  why  you  have  been  fed  by  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  is  now  your 
duty  to  not  only  listen  but  to  digest; 
not  only  to '  make  resolutions,  but  to 
live  up  to  the  instructions  that  have 
been  given,  if  you  expect  to  receive 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

There  is  a  principle  that  I  desire  to 
talk  upon  for  a  few  moments.  I  have 
the  idea,  but  it  is  not  yet  clothed,  but 
I  pray  the  Lord  that  He  may  move 
upon  me  through  your  faith  and 
prayers,  to  explain  my  views  upon  a 
certain  subject.  I  am  very  much  in- 
terested myself    in  the  financial  wel- 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


43 


fare  of  this  people,  because  I  realize 
from  my  own  experience  that  when 
men  are  in  financial  difficulties,  and 
their  honesty  is  in  question,  and  they 
are  unable  to  fulfill  their  agreements, 
it  is  very  difficult  for  honest  men  who 
are  sensitive  to  the  reproach  of  the 
children  of  men  to  feel  joyous  and 
happy,  and  to  appreciate  the  bless- 
ings with  which  they  are  surrounded. 
I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  sun 
not  shine  brightly  to  such  men, 
the  grass  is  not  green,  and  sometimes 
I  fancy,  they  hardly  feel  that  water 
runs  down  hill.  It  is  a  most  terrible 
condition  to  be  in.  One  of  the  great 
difficulties  that  menace  this  people 
is  the  lack  of  employment  for  our 
people.  I  know  how  some  of  us  wor- 
ship gold  and  silver,  but  I  tell  you 
that  is  not  so  great  a  problem  among 
this  people  as  employment.  I  am  not 
in  much  doubt  that  the  time  will  be 
in  these  United  States  when  the  people 
will  worship  work  more  than  they  do 
money,  and  it  is  one  of  the  demands 
that  I  make  upon  thlB  people,  that 
they  see  to  it  that  the  people  of  this 
Church  are  employed.  If  you  have 
large  farms,  and  you  are  poor  and 
poverty  stricken  with  so  much  land, 
see  to  it  that  the  people  are  given  em- 
ployment. Then  the  people  must  see 
to  it  that  they  are  willing  to  take  the 
produce  of  the  country  as  pay  for 
their  labor,  and  not  ask  the  farmer  to 
give  them  gold  and  silver,  which  it 
is  very  difficult  for  him  to  get. 

With  all  due  respect  to  some  things 
that  are  being  done,  I  believe  that  it 
is  absolutely  necessary — God  requires 
it  of  this  people — that  they  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings,  and  that  the 
offerings  be  used  for  the  people  that 
are  old,  aged  and  infirm.  It  is  one  of 
the  most  destructive  things  that  has 
happened  in  this  Church  when  strong, 
able-bodied  men  and  women,  and 
young  men  and  women  are  provided 
from  its  offerings  which  are  given  for 
the  poor.  I  know  the  spirit  that  is 
creeping  in  among  this  people.  I  re- 
member a  certain  experience  I  had 
when  the  scarlet  fever  struck  my  fam- 
ily. After  they  had  recovered  I  sought 
most  diligently  in  one  of  our  own 
thriving  settlements  for  a  little  help. 
I  found  families  that  were  poor,  and 
that    were    being    supported    by  the 


Bishop.  When  I  asked  them  to  come 
and  assist  my  wife — and  I  offered  them 
the  best  I  had  (for  which  I  was  grate- 
ful to  my  Heavenly  Father),  that  is, 
tithing  office  scrip— they  said,  "we  can 
get  enough  of  that  without  working." 
I  have  told  some  of  my  brethren  that 
there  is  no  man  in  this  Church  that 
has  been  treated  better  than  I  have 
by  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  and 
I  am  wonder-struck  when  I  think  of 
how  I  have  been  blessed;  but  I  tell  my 
brethren,  "when  you  have  not  employ- 
ment for  me,  say  the  word,  and  I  will 
take  my  family  by  the  hand,  and  I 
will  again  be  a  pioneer  in  the  land." 
We  have  hundreds  of  brilliant  young 
men,  men  that  have  •  experience; 
but  they  are  hanging  around 
these  streets  and  starving 
to  death.  Do  you  know  what  is  the 
matter  with  us?  There  is  a  great  deal 
of  pride  connected  with  it.  It  is  not 
a  difficult  thing  to  live  in  a  log  hut  if 
you  have  never  had  anything  better, 
but  it  is  a  difficult  thing  to  drop  to  a 
log  house  when  you  have  been  living 
in  a  castle.  But  our  pride  has  got  to 
be  humbled,  young  men.  There  are  a 
great  many  of  us  that  ought  to  be 
sent  out.  Talk  about  missionary  work; 
they  ought  to  call  out  of  this  city  500 
and  send  them  on  missions  to  colonize 
and  build  up  the  tens  of  thousands  of 
acres  that  are  in  this  great  State  of 
Utah.  If  the  State  of  Utah  is  not  good 
enough  for  you,  go  to  Canada.  That 
is  a  wonderful  country,  and  you  can 
get  rich  and  prosper  if  you  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  Then  you 
can  come  back  to  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
put  on  all  the  style  you  want  to,  if 
you  pay  for  it. 

I  desire  to  read  to  you  from  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  will  put 
my  text  to  the  last  part  of  my  dis- 
course, instead  of  the  first.  I  wish  to 
call  to  your  mind  what  the  Lord 
says: 

"I,  the  Lord,  stretched  out  the 
heavens,  and  built  the  earth  as  a  very 
handy  work,  and  all  things  therein 
are  mine: 

"And  it  is  my  purpose  to  provide  for 
my  Saints,  for  all  things  are  mine; 

"But  it  must  needs  be  done  in  mine 
own  way;  and  behold  this  is  the  way 
that  I,  the  Lord,  have  decreed  to  pro- 
vide for  my  Saints,  that  the  poor  shall 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  exalted,  in  that  the  rich  are  made 
low; 

"For  the  earth  is  full,  and  there  is 
enough  and  to  spare;  yea,  I  prepared 
all  things,  and  have  given  unto  the 
children  of  men  to  be  agents  unto 
thcnselves. 

"Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take 
of  the  abundance  which  I  have  made, 
and  impart  not  his  portion,  according 
to  the  law  of  my  Gospel,  unto  the  poor 
and  the  needy,  he  shall,  with  the 
wicked,  lift  up  his  eyes  in  hell,  being 
in  torment." 

So  that  I  fancy  we  had  better  com- 
mence to  get  generous  and  impart  of 
the  abundance  which  the  Lord  has  giv- 
en us  and  give  employment  to  the 
thousands  of  people  that  are  in  need. 
The  trouble  that  came  upon  the  peo- 
ple in  Kirtland  was  brought  about 
for  these  reasons  which  I  will  read  to 
you: 

"But  behold  they  have  not  learned 
to  be  obedient  to  the  things  which 
I  required  at  their  hands,  but  are  full 
of  all  manner  of  evil,  and  do  not  im- 
part of  their  substance,  as  becometh 
Saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted  among 
them, 

"And  are  not  united  according  to 
the  union  required  by  the  law  of  the 
celestial  kingdom; 

"And  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  un- 
less it  is  by  the  principles  of  the  laws 
of  the  celestial  kingdom;  otherwise 
I  cannot  receive  her  unto  myself; 

"And  my  people  must  needs  be  chast- 
ened until  they  learn  obedience,  if  it 
mvit  needs  be  by  the  things  which 
they  suffer." 

Now,  Zion  will  be  redeemed,  and  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  all  is  not  well  in  Zion; 
but  if  you  wish  to  be  popular  you 
want  to  say  that  all  is  well  in  Zion. 
The  Lord  requires  it  at  the  hands  of 
this  people  that  they  pay  their  tithes 
and  their  offerings,  and  that  they  see 
to  it  that  they  impart  of  the  abundance 
which  the  Lord  has  given,  to  those 
that  need  work,  and  give  them  employ- 
ment. The  hands  of  the  Presidency  and 
the  Apostles  of  this  Church  are  tied 
because  we  are  raising  up  among  this 
people,  what  I  call  paupers.  It  is  not 
the  fault  of  the  people  altogether,  it 
is  because  they  cannot  find  work.  I 
pray  the  Lord  that  He  may  move  upon 
all  of  us  that  are  in  need  of  assist- 


ance, that  we  will  have  the  pride  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  and  not  receive  any- 
thing when  we  are  able  to  work,  un- 
less we  be  furnished  employment. 
That  demand  should  be  made  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  felt  impressed 
that  if  the  time  ever  came  that  I  had 
no  food  for  my  family,  I  would  go 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  as  a 
servant  of  God  I  would  demand  work. 
And  if  you  would  not  give  me  work  the 
Lord  would  take  from  the  abundance 
which  you  are  blessed  with. 

Now  I  want  to  prophesy,  as  the  son 
of  a  prophet,  that  if  this  people  want 
to  be  blessed  they  must  labor  for  Zion; 
for  if  you  labor  for  money  you  shall 
perisb.  You  are  under  covenant,  and  it 
is  a  demand  that  God  makes  of  this 
people  that  they  redeem  Zion.  You 
have  got  to  be  generous,  and  you  have 
got  to  place  all  that  you  have  and 
are  upon  the  altar  and  learn  to  live 
the  law  of  the  celestial  kingdom. 

"But,"  says  one  to  me,  "you 
would  not  preach  that  way  four  years 
ago  when  you  had  something."  Well, 
if  you  have  got  to  learn  to  preach  the 
way  I  am  doing  you  will  learn  it  just 
the  way  I  learned  it.  You  will  pay 
for  it.  The  Lord  will  take  from  you 
what  you  have  if  you  don't  humble 
yourselves,  and  He  will  chasten  you. 
I  want  to  say  to  you  the  Gospel  is  to 
be  preached  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue  and  people.  We  are  spending 
no  less  than  $300,000  a  year,  if  I  have 
figured  right.  If  your  Elders  are 
traveling  without  money  they  spend 
an  awful  sight  of  it,  it  seems  to  me, 
and  you  will  be  called  upon  to  spend  a 
good  deal  more.  You  will  be  called  upon 
to  place  all  that  you  have  and  are  upon 
the  altar;  and  if  you  do  not  have 
your  feet  right  and  know  that  this  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  when  you  are  asked  to 
give  up  your  means,  you  will 
flounder  and  lose  the  faith;  but 
if  you  have  not  got  anything  you  will 
be  just  as  Peter  was.  I  am  in  the 
same  fix.  If  I  leave  this  Church,  where 
in  heaven  will  I  go.  That  is  the  way 
I  feel. 

I  feel  to  bless  the  people.  I  feel  that 
you  are  being  blessed  and  that  you  will 
continue  to  be  blessed  as  long  as  you 
keep  the  commandments  of  God.  When 
you  cease  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  then  the  judgments  of  God  will 


PRESIDEN  T  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


45 


commence  at  the  house  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  pray  that  that  may  be  averted. 
I  pray  that  we  may  not  pass  through 
the  experience  that  the  people  had  in 
Kirtland  because  they  transgressed  the 
laws  of  God.  May  the  Lord  bless  you. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT     JOSEPH     F.  SMITH. 

The  Saints  a  charitable  people- -Idleness  and  pau- 
perism should  not  be  fostered — Value  of  inde- 
pendence and  industry. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been 
unexpectedly  called  upon  to  make  a 
few  remarks  and  as  I  have  not  pre- 
meditated upon  what  to  say,  it  is  just 
occurred  to  me  to  follow  some  of  the 
remarks  that  have  already  been  made 
to  us  this  morning,  by  reading  from 
the  fourth  chapter  of  Mosiah: 

"Believe  in  God;  believe  that  He  is, 
and  that  He  created  all  things,  both 
in  heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that 
He  has  all  wisdom,  and  all  power,  both 
in  heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that 
man  doth  not  comprehend  all  the 
things  which  the  Lord  can  compre- 
hend. 

"And  again:  Believe  that  ye  must 
repent  of  your  sins  and  forsake  them, 
and  humble  yourselves  before  God; 
and  ask  in  sincerity  of  heart  that  He 
would  forgive  you;  and  now,  if  you  be- 
lieve all  these  things  see  that  ye  do 
them. 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you  as  I  have 
said  before,  that  ye  have  known  of 
His  goodness,  and  have  tasted  of  His 
love  and  have  received  a  remission 
of  your  sins,  which  causeth  such  ex- 
ceeding great  joy  in  your  souls,  even 
so  I  would  that  ye  should  remember, 
and  always  retain  in  remembrance, 
the  greatness  of  God,  and  your  own 
nothingness,  and  His  goodness  and  long 
suffering  towards  you,  unworthy 
creatures,  and  humble  yourselves  even 
in  the  depths  of  humility,  calling  on 
the  name  of  the  Lord  daily,  and  stand- 
ing steadfastly  in  the  faith  of  that 
which  is  to  come,  which  was  spoken  by 
the  mouth  of  the  angel; 

"And  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  if 
ye  do  this,  ye  shall  always  rejoice, 
and  be  filled  with  the  love  of  God,  and 
always  retain  a  remission  of  your  sins; 

and  ye  shall  grow  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  glory  of  Him  that  created  you, 

or  in  the  knowledge  of  that  which  is 

just  and  true. 


"And  ye  will  not  have  a  mind  to 
injure  one  another, but  to  live  peaceably, 
and  to  render  to  every  man  according 
to  that  which  is  his  due. 

"And  ye  will  not  suffer  your  children, 
that  they  go  hungry,  or  naked; 
neither  will  ye  suffer  that  they  trans- 
gress the  laws  of  God,  and  fight  and 
quarrel  with  one  another,  and  serve  the 
devil,  who  is  the  master  of  sin,  or  who 
is  the  evil  spirit  which  hath  been 
spoken  of  by  our  fathers;  he  being  an 
enemy   to  all  righteousness; 

"But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk 
in  the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness; 
ye  will  teach  them  to  love  one  another, 
and  to  serve  one  another; 

"And  also,  ye  yourselves  will  suc- 
cor those  that  stand  in  need  of  your 
succor;  ye  will  administer  of  your 
substance  unto  him  that  standeth  in 
need;  and  ye  will  not  suffer  that  the 
beggar  putteth  up  his  petition  to  you 
in  vain,  and  turn  him  out  to  perish. 

"Perhaps  thou  shalt  say,  the  man 
has  brought  upon  himself  his  misery, 
therefore  I  will  stay  my  hand,  and  will 
not  give  unto  him  of  my  food,  nor 
impart  unto  him  of  my  substance  that 
he  may  not  suffer,  for  his  punishments 
are  just. 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  O  man,  whoso- 
ever doeth  this,  the  same  hath  great 
cause  to  repent;  and  except  he  re- 
penteth  of  that  which  he  hath  done, 
he  perisheth  for  ever,  and  hath  no  in- 
terest in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"For  behold,  are  we  not  all  beggars? 
Do  we  not  all  depend  upon  the  same 
Being,  even  God,  for  all  the  substance 
which  we  have;  for  both  food  and  rai- 
ment, and  for  gold  and  for  silver,  and 
for  all  the  riches  which  we  have  of 
every  kind? 

"And  behold,  even  at  this  time,  ye 
have  been  calling  on  His  name,  and 
begging  for  a  remission  of  your  sins. 
And  has  He  suffered  that  ye  have 
begged  in  vain?  Nay  He  has  poured 
out  His  Spirit  upon  you,  and  has 
caused  that  your  hearts  should  be  filled 
with  joy,  and  has  caused  that  your 
mouths  should  be  stopped,  that  ye 
could  not  find  utterance,  so  exceeding 
great  was  your  joy. 

"And  now,  if  God,  who  has  created 
you,  on  whom  you  are  dependent  for 
your  lives,  and  for  all  that  ye  have 
and  are,  doth  grant  unto  you  whatso- 
ever ye  ask  that  is  right,  in  faith,  be- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


lieving  that  ye  shall  receive,  O  then, 
how  had  ye  ought  to  impart  of  the 
substance  that  ye  have  one  to  an- 
other? 

"And  if  ye  judge  the  man  who 
putteth  P"  his  petition  to  you  for  your 
substance  that  he  perish  not,  and  con- 
demn him,  how  much  more  just  will  be 
your  condemnation  for  withholding 
your  substance,  which  doth  not  belong 
to  you  but  to  God,  to  whom  also  your 
life  belongeth;  and  yet  ye  put  up  no 
petition,  nor  repent  of  the  thing  which 
thou  hast  done. 

"I  say  unto  you,  Wo  be  unto  that 
man,  for  his  substance  shall  perish 
with  him;  and  now,  I  say  these  things 
unto  those  who  are  rich,  as  pertaining 
to  the  things  of  this  world. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  the  poor,  Ye 
who  have  not  and  yet  have  sufficient, 
that  ye  remain  from  day  to  day;  I 
mean  all  you  who  deny  the  beggar,  be- 
cause ye  have  not;  I  would  that  ye  say 
in  your  hearts,  that  I  give  not  because 
I  have  not;  but  if  I  had,  I  would  give. 

"And  now,  if  ye  say  this  in  your 
hearts,  ye  remain  guiltless,  otherwise 
ye  are  condemned,  and  your  condemna- 
tion is  just;  for  ye  covet  that  which 
ye  have  not  received. 

"And  now,  for  the  sake  of  these 
things  which  I  have  spoken  unto  you; 
that  is,  for  the  sake  of  retaining  a  re- 
mission of  your  sins  from  day  to  day, 
that  ye  may  walk  guiltless  before  God, 
I  would  that  ye  should  impart  of  your 
substance  to  the  poor,  every  man  ac- 
cording to  that  which  he  hath,  such  =is 
feeding  the  hungry,  clothing  the  naked, 
visiting  the  sick,  and  administering  to 
their  relief,  both  spiritually  and  tem- 
porally, according  to  their  wants; 
m  "And  see  that  all  these  things  are 
done  in  wisdom  and  order;  for  it  is  not 
requisite  that  a  man  should  run  faster 
than  he  has  strength.  And  again:  It  is 
expedient  that  he  should  be  diligent, 
that  thereby  he  might  win  the  prize; 
therefore,  all  things  must  be  done  in  or- 
der. 

"And  I  would  that  ye  should  remem- 
ber, that  whosoever  among  you  that 
borroweth  of  his  neighbor,  should  re- 
turn the  thing  that  he  borroweth,  ac- 
cording as  he  doth  agree,  or  else  thou 
shalt  commit  sin,  and  perhaps  thou 
shalt  cause  thy  neighbor  to  commit  sin 
also. 


"And  finally,  I  cannot  tell  you  all  the 
things  whereby  ye  may  commit  sin;  for 
there  are  divers  ways  and  means,  even 
so  many,  that  I  cannot  number  them. 

"But  this  much  I  can  tell  you,  that 
if  ye  do  not  watch  yourselves,  and 
your  thoughts,  and  your  words, 
and  your  deeds.  and  observe 
the  commandments  of  God,  and  con- 
tinue in  the  faith  of  what  ye  have 
heard  concerning  the  coming  of  our 
Lord,  even  unto  the  end  of  your  lives, 
ye  must  perish.  And  now,  O  man,  re- 
member, and  perish  not." 

I  have  been  reading  the  words  of 
King  Benjamin  to  the  people  as  re- 
corded in  the  fourth  chapter  of 
Mosiah  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
I  don't  know  but  what  they  apply  to 
us  today,  in  many  ways,  as  com- 
pletely as  they  applied  to  those  unto 
whom  they  were  spoken.  Yet,  I  believe 
I  can  confidently  say  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  as  a  rule,  are  among  the 
most  hospitable,  generous  and  kind- 
hearted  people  that  can  be  found  upon 
the  earth.  Not  long  ago  one  of  our 
Elders  returned  from  a  mission  in  the 
South.  There  had  been  a  question 
raised  in  his  mind  as  to  whether  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  Zion  would  be 
as  open-hander"  as  hospitable,  as  kind- 
hearted  and  as  willing  to  receive  and 
entertain  a  stranger  as  were  the  peo- 
ple of  the  South,  and  he  determined 
to  put  the  matter  to  the  test.  The  story 
of  his  visits  to  some  of  our  people  here 
is  published  in  the  Improvement  Era, 
No.  6.  I  canot  give  it  to  you  in  de- 
tail, but  will  only  attempt  a  brief  out- 
line. Representing  himself  as  a  minis- 
ter of  the  Gospel  from  the  state  of 
Tennessee,  traveling  without  purse  or 
scrip,  as  the  Elders  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  were 
generally  doing,  he  called  upon  Brother 
B.  Y.  Hampton  of  the  Hampton  House 
and  asked  for  entertainment  without 
charge.  Brother  Hampton  readily  con- 
sented to  take  care  of  him.  He  next 
called  at  the  Temple  Barber  Shop, 
with  a  similar  representation,  and 
asked  for  a  "shave  and  shingle,"  on 
the  same  terms,  which  was  readily 
complied  with,  and  he  was  asked  to 
"come  again."  He  next  called  upon 
Brother  Henry  Dinwoodey,  and  pre- 
senting himself  a6  before,  asked 
for  means  to  pay  his  fare  on  the  rail- 
road, going  north,  whereupon  Brother 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMPPH 


47 


Dinwoodey  handed  him  out  the  money. 
Needing  a  mainspring  in  his  watch  he 
called  upon  Brother  John  Daynes  and 
Son,  and  introduced  himself  as  before, 
and  they  cheerfully  repaired  his 
watch.  He  then  called  upon  Col. 
Thomas  G.  Webber  of  Z.  C.  M.  I.  and 
in  the  same  guise  asked  for  a  pair  of 
shoes,  which  Col.  Webber  generously 
gave  him.  Having  a  tooth  which  needed 
filling,  he  called  at  the  dental  parlors 
of  Dr.  Fred  Clawson,  whom  he  con- 
vinced, after  some  difficulty,  that  he 
was  not  an  old  friend  and  school  mate, 
but  really  a  minister  of  the  Gospel 
from  Tennessee,  having  a  similar  name, 
the  doctor  readily  consented  to  his 
"having  his  tooth  filled  without  money 
or  price.  Thus  it  was  proven  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  were  as  generous, 
as  kind-hearted,  as  ready  to  help  the 
stranger  of  another  religion,  as  were 
the  good  people  of  the  Southern  States, 
and  for  that  matter  of  any  other  coun- 
try. Having  put  these  people  to  the 
test,  in  other  words,  having  weighed 
them  in  the  balance  and  found  them  not 
wanting  in  each  case  he  fully  ex- 
plained his  motive  and  who  he  was, 
to  their  mutual  delight.  And 
when  the  Elder  returned  their 
gifts  or  declined  to  receive 
the  favors  granted  him  without 
proper  remuneration,  in  each  case, 
as  I  understand,  the  brethren  insisted 
that  what  they  had  done  was  in  good 
faith  on  their  part,  andi  he  was  wel- 
come to  the  same,  believing  that  an 
Elder  who  had  spent  two  years  and  up- 
wards on  a  mission,  laboring  without 
purse  or  scrip,  would  be  likely  to 
stand  almost  as  much  in  need  of  such 
help  as  would  the  strange  minister 
whom  he  had  personated. 

Now  some  of  us  are  a  little  more 
fortunate  than  others.  For  instance, 
I  have  several  doors,  and  beggars 
come  to  all  of  them;  and  if  ever  a 
beggar  was  turned  away  from  one  of 
my  doors  I  never  knew  it.  I  have  al- 
ways, and  so  have  my  family,  contrib- 
uted food,  and  such  clothing  as  we 
could  snare  to  every  one  who  came 
asking  for  it.  Last  summer  a  poor 
boy  came  to  my  house.  I  happened  to 
be  out  of  doors,  around  the  corner  of  the 
house;  I  heard  the  voice  of  a  man,  I 
looked,  and  he  was  sitting  on  a  box. 
I  heard  that  he  was  murmuring  and 
cursing  and  swearing.    I  stepped  out 


and  I  said,  "My  friend,  what  is  the 
matter  with  you?"  He  pointed  to  his 
feet  and  said,  "look  at  my  feet."  The 
remnants  of  shoes  which  he  had  on 
them  were  too  small  for  him.  He  had 
worn  them  through  the  soles  and 
through  the  sides,  and  his  feet  were 
out  upon  the  ground.  They  were 
blistered  and  inflamed  and  painfully 
sore.  He  said  he  had  been  driven  out 
of  Davis  county  by  the  officers  of  the 
law,  and  was  told  that  if  he  did  not 
get  out  of  the  county  he  would  be  put 
in  jail  for  vagrancy,  and  he  had  come 
here  and  asked  for  food,  and  the  peo- 
ple who  had  given  him  food  had  not 
invited  him  into  the  house.  Now  I 
said,  "my  friend,  why  do  you  swear 
about  it?  It  seems  to  me  that  a  man 
in  your  circumstances  ought  to  pray 
rather  than  swear.  It  would  be  much 
more  becoming  in  you  to  humble  your- 
self and  appeal  to  the  Lord  for  a  little 
assistance  from  Him,  rather  than  to 
curse  and  swear  as  I  have  heard  you 
do.  I  said  to  him,  "this  is  my  home, 
this  is  my  family  who  live  here,  I  have 
a  very  large  family  and  I  have  all  I 
can  do  to  provide  for  them.  So  far  as 
I  can  find  or  provide  labor  for  my  chil- 
dren they  are  out  at  work,  indeed 
some  of  them  are  at  work  who  ought 
to  be  going  to  school.  Notwithstand- 
ing all  this,  we  are  willing  to  help  you 
or  any  other  person,  so  far  as  we  can, 
who  comes  to  us  in  need;  but  I  don't 
like  any  one  to  come  upon  my  premises 
and  use  profane  language,  or  curst 
and  swear.  Now,  I  advise  you  never 
to  swear  again,  hold  sacred  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  and  do  a  little  praying, 
and  I'll  promise  you,  you  will  get 
along  better  in  this  world  than  you 
have  done." 

I  then  called  my  wife's  attention  fco 
the  condition  of  this  poor  boy,  and  she 
prepared  him  a  good  warm  bath,  gave 
him  a  clean  undershirt  and  a  pair  of 
socks,  and  a  pair  of  boots,  and  a  good 
breakfast,  and  sent  him  on  his  way. 
This  is  the  way  we  treated  this  poor 
creature.  But  we  do  not  treat  them 
all  that  way.  We  could  not  afford  to 
give  all  that  come  boots  and  socks 
and  clothes  and  baths,  for  we  have  not 
enough  to  go  round,  but  we  have  al- 
ways managed  to  give  something  to 
the  poor,  and  refuse  no  one  who  asks 
for  food.    I  believe  this  is  the  general 


4S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sentiment  and  character  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  think  all  the 
Mormon  people  are  kindly  dis- 
posed, and  are  generous  toward 
the  poor  and  unfortunate,  and  that 
there  is  not  a  Latter-day  Saint  under 
the  sound  of  my  voice  or  anywhere 
that  would  not  divide  his  portion  with 
his  fellow  creature  in  case  of  need. 
I  have  this  testimony  to  bear  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  President  Cannon 
asks  whether  I  would  advise,  where 
men  come  asking  for  food,  that  they 
be  invited  to  do  a  little  work  for  it. 
I  should  most  decidedly  be  in  favor  of 
asking  a  man  who  had  plenty  of  time 
on  his  hands,  and  nothing  else,  and 
who  had  physical  strength,  to  devote 
a  little  of  his  time  and  strength  by 
way  of  compensating  for  that  which 
he  received.  But  you  want  to  watch 
them  a  little;  I  am  not  talking  now  o£ 
the  Latter-day  Saints  who  seek  for 
employment.  There  are  very  few  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  have  to  beg,  in- 
deed I  know  of  none,  and  I  am  sorry 
there  are  any  professing  to  be  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  do  beg;  there  ought 
not  to  be  any  Latter-day  Saint  beg- 
gars. The  beggars  that  we  have  are 
those  that  are  not  of  us,  and  they  are 
sometimes  very  wicked  in  their  hearts, 
and  not  at  all  grateful  at  times  for 
what  they  receive.  I  have  seen  men 
go  away  from  my  door  with  good 
bread  and  butter  in  their  hands  (good 
enough  for  any  king  to  eat,  for  my 
folks  make  good  bread  and  good  but- 
ter, as  good  as  I  ever  ate  on  earth) 
and  when  out  of  the  gate  they  have 
thrown  it  into  the  street.  It  was  not 
food  they  wanted.  They  wanted 
money.  For  what?  That  they  might 
go  to  some  gambling  hell  or  to  some 
drinking  saloon.  Of  course  they  are 
responsible  for  that.  "We  can  only 
judge  by  appearances  and  by  the 
promptings  of  the  good  spirit  within 
us;  and  it  is  better  to  give  to  a  dozen 
that  are  unworthy  than  to  turn  away 
empty  one  worthy  person. 

There  is  another  phase  of  this  ques- 
tion that  I  want  to  refer  to.  There  is 
such  a  thing  as  encouraging  idleness 
and  fostering  pauperism  among  men. 
Men  and  women  ought  not  to  be  will- 
ing to  receive  charity  unless  they  are 
compelled  to  do  so  to  keep  them  from 
suffering.  Every  man  and  woman 
ought  to  possess  the  spirit  of  inde- 


pendence, a  self-sustaining  spirit,  that 
would  prompt  him  or  her  to  say,  when 
they  are  In  need,  "I  am  willing  to 
give  my  labor  in  exchange  for  that 
which  you  give  me."  No  man  ought 
to  be  satisfied  to  receive,  and  to  do 
nothing  for  it.  After  a  man  is  brought 
down  to  poverty  and  is  under  the 
necessity  of  receiving  aid,  and  his 
friends  give  it  him,  he  should  feel  that 
it  is  an  obligation  under  which  he  is 
placed,  and  when  the  Lord  should 
open  his  way  he  would  return  the  gift. 
That  is  the  feeling  we  should  culti- 
vate in  our  hearts,  to  make  us  a  free 
and  independent  people.  The  cultiva- 
tion of  any  other  feeling  or  spirit  than 
this  is  calculated  to  make  paupers,  to 
degrade  and  bring  mankind  down  to 
beggary,  which  is  a  most  wretched 
condition  for  men  to  be  in.  It  is  a  bad 
thing  for  men  to  think  the  world  owes 
them  a  living,  and  all  they  have  to  do 
is  to  beg  or  steal  to  get  it.  When  it 
comes  to  this  class  of  people  I  am  very 
much  of  the  mind  expressed  once  by 
Dr.  Johnson,  when  a  beggar  came  to 
him  and  asked  alms  and  insisted  that 
the  doctor  should  be  generous  in  help- 
ing him,  "for,"  said  he,  "doctor,  you 
know  that  I  must  live."  But  the  doc- 
tor said,  "I  don't  see  the  least  neces- 
sity for  it."  When  a  man  becomes  a 
parasite,  living  upon  the  charity  of  his 
friends,  I  confess  it  is  hard  to  see  the 
necessity  for  him  to  live.  He  is  no 
good  to  any  one.  I  speak  this  way 
only  of  such  as  are  able-bodied,  such 
as  have  their  faculties  and  can  devote 
these  to  some  industry,  to  some  use- 
ful labor.  I  don't  refer  to  the  cripple, 
to  those  who  are  enfeebled  by  age,  be- 
cause I  look  at  them  in  an  entirely 
different  light;  there  is  a  necessity  for 
them  to  live,  and  there  is  a  necessity 
for  us  to  assist  such,  but  there  is  no 
great  need  in  this  world  for  men  and 
women  who. are  able  to  work  and  will 
not  work.  Men  come  to  our  Bishop 
and  to  the  Apostles  and  ask,  "What 
shall  we  do?  "We  are  without  employ- 
ment. "We  cannot  get  anything  to  do, 
and  what  shall  we  do?"  The  Bishop 
says,  "pack  up  your  knapsack,  if  you 
have  one,  or  if  you  have  not  take 
your  bandana  handkerchief  to  put 
your  clothes  into,  if  you  have  any- 
thing but  what  is  on  your  back,  and 
go  out  into  the  outer  settlements 
where  there  is  land  to  take  up,  where 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


there  is  water  to  take  out  of  the  river, 
and  where  there  is  an  opportunity  for 
you  to  take  up  a  farm,  cultivate  the 
soil,  and  eventually  raise  cows,  sheep, 
chickens,  pigs  and  other  useful  ani- 
mals and  produce  from  mother  earth 
enough  to  feed  and  clothe  you,  and 
thereby  make  yourself  an  independent 
citizen,  a  useful  member  of  society, 
and  contribute  something  to  the  wel- 
fare of  mankind,  and  prove  that  the 
world  is  better  for  your  being  in  it. 
-Well,  but,"  one  of  our  good  brethren 
says,  "that  was  all  right  enough, 
Bishop,  in  olden  times,  but  times  are 
different  now."  Of  course  the  times 
are  different  now.  A  boy  starting  out 
in  the  world  now-a-days  as  we  used 
to  do,  without  anything,  sees  his 
neighbors  enjoying  the  possession  of 
good,  comfortable  homes,  he  sees  a 
great  many  people  that  are  rich,  who 
can  ride  in  their  carriages,  and  have 
every  luxury,  and  he,  under  the  im- 
pression that  he  js  as  good  as  they 
and  as  much  entitled  to  riches  as  they 
are,  feels  that  because  he  has  not  as 
much  as  they  have,  he  is  in  some  way 
injured  or  persecuted,  and  envy  and 
enmity  spring  up  in  his  soul  toward 
the  rich,  and  he  feels  that  they  are 
his  enemies  and  that  he  has  a  right  to 
be  theirs.  That  is  wrong.  It  is  just 
as  easy  to  make  a  living  out  of  the  soil 
now  with  comparatively  nothing  to  be- 
gin with  as  it  was  for  the  Pioneers 
when  they  first  came  into  this  valley, 
were  it  not  for  the  pride  that  we  have, 
providing  we  go  where  land  and  watei 
await  the  labor  necessary  to  subdue 
and  utilize  them,  instead  of  idly  cov- 
eting the  possessions  of  others,  ana 
nursing  the  thought  that  we  ought  to 
have  as  good  as  they  have.  If  we  will 
go  to  work  and  earn  and  produce  that 
which  we  need,  we  are  entitled  to  it, 
and  the  Lord  will  bless  every  man  who 
honestly  and  faithfully  undertakes  to 
get  it  out  of  mother  earth.  The  Lord 
Almighty  in  the  beginning,  designed 
that  we  should  earn  our  bread  by  the 
sweat  of  our  brow,  and  we  should 
produce  from  the  earth  that  which  Is 
needful  for  food  and  clothing  and  to 
build  us  habitations.  He  has  provided 
gold  and  silver  and  iron  and  precious 
stones  in  vast  abundance  in  the  earth, 
and  it  is  legitimate  for  men  to  gather 
all  these  from  the  earth,  because  they 


49 


are  useful  for  mankind.  The  Lord 
has  provided  these  things;  and  there 
is  nothing  on  the  face  of  the  globe 
nor  in  its  depths  that  God  has  pro- 
vided for  the  use  of  man,  that  is 
not  legitimate  for  us  to  take  and  use 
if  we  do  so  wisely  and  prudently. 
They  are  all  designed  for  our  good. 

Now  let  us  not  encourage  pauperism, 
or  beggary;  let  us  not  encourage  the 
thought  that  the  Church  or  that  the 
world  owes  any  man  a  living,  except 
it  be  the  worthy  poor— the  Lord's  poor 
—or  by  his  honest  labor  he  earns  it. 
I  heard  a  fellow  one  time  say,  "the 
world  owes  me  a  living  and  I  will  be 
damned  if  I  don't  have  it."  Such  a 
man  as  that  would  have  it  if  he  had 
to  steal  it,  and  after  a  while  he  would 
have  it  if  he  had  to  murder  some  man 
who  had  riches,  in  order  to  rob  him 
of  his  possessions.  This  is  the  spirit 
of  murder  and  robbery.  The  spirit 
which  creeps  into  the  hearts  of  men 
to  receive  alms  and  obtain  something 
for  nothing,  making  them  believe  it  is 
due  them  without  honest  work  is,  in 
part,  the  same  spirit,  at  least  it  is  a 
spirit  that  leads  on  to  murder  and 
robbery,  in  order  that  its  passion 
might  get  what  "the  world  owes"  him, 
as  he  imagines.  Now  the  world  owes 
me  a  living  provided  I  will  go  to  work 
to  produce  it  by  honest  labor.  The 
earth  has  been  good  and  generous  to 
all  those  who  have  honestly  labored 
upon  its  bosom,  and  who  have  sought 
succor  and  assistance  from  it.  It  has 
been  a  good  mother.  It  has  yielded 
in  its  strength  for  the  good  of  man 
when  he  has  put  his  labor  upon  it 
industriously  and  faithfully;  such  have 
reaped  their  harvest  in  its  season  and 
have  partaken  of  its  fruits  in  abund- 
ance. Let  us  seek  then  to  obtain  our 
living  in  this  way,  if  the  Lord  per- 
mits us  to  do  it;  and  if  He  calls  us  to 
any  other  business  let  us  attend  to 
that  as  faithfully  as  we  would  attend 
to  the  cultivation  of  the  soil  if  we  were 
permitted  to  occupy  ourselves  in  that 
direction. 

God  bless  you  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

On  the  mountain's  top  appearing 
Lo!  the  sacred  herald  stands! 
Benediction  by  Elder  George  B.  Wal- 
lace. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE.. 


2  p.  m. 
The  choir  sang: 

O,  God.  our  help  in  ages  past, 
Our  hope  for  years  to  come, 

Our  shelter  from  the  stormy  blast, 
And  our  eternal  home. 

Prayer  by  Elder.  Ellas  H.  Blackburn. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Behold,  the  mountain  of  the  Lord 

In  latter  days  shall  rise, 
On  mountain  tops,  above  the  hills, 

And  draw  the  wond'ring  eyes. 

The  following  abstracts  of  reports 
were  read  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith: 

Synopsis  of  Primary  association  re- 
ports for  year  ending  December  31st, 
1897. 

This  report  lacks  those  of  four 
Stakes  of  Zion. 


No.  of  associations    459 

No.  of  officers   2,893 

No.  of  members   33,449 


Total   36,342 

Showing  an  increase  of   2,190 

No.  of   regular  and  other  meet- 
ings held    14,738 

No.  of  testimonies,  readings  and 

other  exercises   149,953 

Louie  B.  Felt,  President. 


Lillie  T.  Freeze,  First  Counselor. 
Josephine  R.  West,  Second  Counselor. 
May  Anderson,  Secretary  and  Treas- 
urer. 

Synopsis  of  Sunday  school  statistical 
report  for  1897: 

Number  of  Sunday  schools — 
In  the  organized  Stakes  of  Zion.  630 
In  the   foreign   missions   of  the 


Church    361 

Total    991 

Number  of  schools  held  during 

the  year    39,470 

Total  number  of  pupils — males.  48,454 

Females    49,578 

Total  number  of  officers,  teach- 
ers and  missionaries    12,596 


Total    110,728 


Considerably  more  than  one-third 
of  the  children  attending  these  schools 
are  in  the  primary  department  (includ- 
ing the  kindergarten). 

In  the  Stakes  of  Zion  the  average 
number  of  times  school  has  been  held 
during  the  year  is  45%. 

The  most  noticeable  feature  of  the 
report  is  the  great  increase  in  schools 
and  attendance  in  the  foreign  missions 
of  the  Church.    There  are  150  in  the 


Southern  States  mission  alone,  and 
more  than  130  on  the  isles  of  the  Pa- 
cific. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

Restoration  of  the  Gospel— Its  promises  to  the 
obedient — Joseph  Smith  ^ent  of  God— The  Word 
of  the  Lord  unto  all  people — Wo  must  give  onr 
hearts  to  God. 

"There  was  a  man  of  the  Pharisees 
named    Nicodemus,    a    ruler  of  the 

Jews: 

"The  same  came  to  Jesus  by  night, 
and  said  unto  Him,  Rabbi,  we  knoAv 
that  thou  art  a  teacher  come  from 
God:  for  no  man  can  do  these  miracles 
that  thou  doest,  except  God  be  with 
him. 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him. 
Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except 
a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see 
the  kingdom  of  God. 

"Nicodemus  saith  unto  Him,  How 
can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is  old? 
can  he  enter  the  second  time  into  his 
mother's  womb,  and  be  born? 

"Jesus  answered,  Verily,  verily,  I 
say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man  be  born 
of  water,  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"That  which  is  born  of  the  flesh,  is 
flesh;  and  that  which  is  born  of  the 
Spirit,  is  spirit. 

"Marvel  not  that  I  said  unto  thee. 
Ye  must  be  born  again. 

"The  wind  bloweth  where  it  listeth, 
and  thou  hearest  the  sound  thereof, 
but  canst  not  tell  whence  it  cometh, 
and  whither  it  goeth;  so  is  every  one 
that  is  born  of  the  Spirit. 

"Nicodemus  answered  and  said  unto 
Him,  How  can  these  things  be? 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
Art  thou  a  master  of  Israel,  and  know- 
est  not  these  things? 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  We 
speak  that  we  do  know,  and  testify 
that  we  have  seen;  and  ye  receive  not 
our  witness." 

It  has  been  demonstrated  at  this 
Conference  that  the  same  Spirit  that 
existed  in  the  primitive  Chruch  ex- 
ists in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  today.  The  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  by  those 
who  have  addressed  us  have  all  given 
witness  of  the  same  thing,  that  we 
are  living  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
fullness  of  times.    We  are  bearing  oui 


ELDER   GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


testimony  to  the  world  that  the  angel 
that  John  saw  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos, 
when  he  received  that  wonderful  rev- 
elation, showing  things  that  should 
happen  hereafter,  has  come.  In  that 
revelation  was  given  a  description  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  going  into  the 
wilderness,  the  Priesthood  being  taken 
from  the  earth,  Rev.  XII,  the  estab- 
lishment of  false  systems  that  would 
made  all  nations  to  drink  of  the  wine 
of  the  wrath  of  her  fornication.  Rev. 
XVII.  Jchn  also  saw  a  mighty  angel 
fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the 
everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  to  those 
who  dwell  upon  the  earth,  crying  with 
a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory 
to  Him,  for  the  hour  of  His  judg- 
ment is  come.  Rev.  XIV.  We  testi- 
fy that  this  angel  has  come, 
that  this  everlasting  Gospel  has> 
been  restored,  and  that  the  Gospel  of 
the  kingdom  is  being  preached  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  world  for 
a  witness.  We  take  unto  them  the 
glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  We  call 
upon  mankind  everywhere,  no  matter 
what  their  profession  may  be,  to  wor- 
ship the  living  and  true  God,  who 
hath  spoken  in  these  last  days.  We 
cry  unto  them  repentance,  reformation, 
to  cease  from  their  evil  ways,  and  to 
worship  the  living  and  true  God,  and 
to  obey  His  Gospel.  We  entreat  them 
to  be  baptized  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  that  they  may  en- 
joy the  blessings  resulting  therefrom, 
and  that  they  may  be  sanctified  by 
the  precious  blood  of  Christ,  which 
follows  the  water,  and  be  prepared  for 
me  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  We 
promise  unto  them  if  they  will  obey 
this  form  of  doctrine;  if  they  will 
humble  themselves  before  the  Lord, 
and  seek  wisdom  at  His  hands;  if 
they  will  give  unto  the  Lord  the 
broken  heart  and  the  contrite  spirit, 
they  shall  know,  as  we  know,  that 
these  principles  are  true. 

We  are  sending  our  missionaries  all 
the  time,  and  when  they  return  they 
v.<*n  testify  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  wa& 
a  true  Prophet  sent  of  God.  If  they 
did  not  know  it  when  they  staited  out 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  they  obtained 
this  information  before  they  came 
back,  simply  because  our  Father  in 
heaven  is  doing  His  own  work.  It 
does  not  require  an  artificial  education 


to  prepare  a  man  to  declare  the  word 
of  the  Lord  unto  the  peopie.  It  is  not 
by  wisdom,  it  is  not  by  might,  it  is 
not  by  oratory,  it  is  not  by  logic;  but 
it  is  "by  my  Spirit,  saith  the  Lord." 
Our  message  unto  the  people  is  on<; 
that  every  individual  is  interested  in, 
no  matter  what  his  profession  may  be. 
The  word  of  the  Lord  is  to.  every  in- 
dividual. As  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
said  to  His  ancient  Apostles,  so  He 
hath  said  in  these  last  days: 

"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned." 

You  may  ask  why  this  condemna- 
tion should  come  unto  the  people. 
Simply  because  it  is  not  our  message; 
it  is  the  message  of  God  Almighty'. 
Whoso  receiveth  us  receiveth  Him; 
whoso  rejecteth  us  rejecteth  Him. 

The  great  problem  before  the  world 
is,  was  Joseph  Smith  sent  of  God,  or 
was  he  not?  No  matter  how  much 
you  may  vilify  him,  no  matter  how 
much  evil  may  be  said  concerning  him, 
it  is  a  solemn  fact  that  he  was  sent  or 
God,  and  we  bear  testimony  that  wt 
know  it.  We  have  been  gathered  out 
of  the  world.  We  were  Catholics,  we 
were  Protestants  of  various  denomin- 
ations, and  when  the  word  of  the  Lord 
came  to  us  we  obeyed  it.  A  great 
many  of  our  friends  rejected  it;  but 
those  of  us  who  have  obeyed  it  have 
this  living  testimony  that  we  know 
that  God  lives,  we  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  we  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  of  God,  and 
we  know  that  the  Church  of  Christ, 
in  its  present  organized  state  upon  the 
earth,  is  the  Church  of  the  Redeemer, 
and  that  the  signs  follow  the  believer. 
Test  our  principles.  As  far  as  we  are 
concerned  as  a  people,  we  are  a 
variety.  The  wheat  and  tares  are 
growing  together,  are  they  not?  The 
wise  and  the  foolish  virgins  are  living 
together,  are  they  not?  But  the  Lord's 
own  love  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. They  do  not  rob  Him  in  tithes 
and  offerings.  They  are  consistent  tu 
their  profession  and  in  their  faith. 
They  hear  the  word  of  God  and  do  it. 
Although  none  of  us  pretend  to  be 
good  (for  our  Royal  Master  said  that 
no  one  was  good  save  God),  still  by 


5? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


way  of  comparison  we  say  we  have 
the  good,  the  King's  own,  those  who 
love  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. You  may  know  them  when 
you  take  them  by  the  hand.  They  are 
filed  with  thanksgiving  and  praise  to 
God  for  the  redemption  that  He  has 
wrought  out;  and  we  say  with  the 
Psalmist  of  old: 

"O  give  thanks  unto  the  Lord,  for 
"he  is  good;  for  His  mercy  endureth  for 
«ver. 

"Let  the  redeemed  of  the  Lord  say 
■so,  whom  he  hath  redeemed  from  the 
Tiand  of  the  enemy; 

"And  gathered  them  out  of  the  lands, 
from  the  east,  and  from  the  west,  from 
the  north,  and  from  the  south. 

"Oh,  that  men  would  praise  the  Lord 
for  His  goodness,  and  for  his  wonder- 
ful works  to  the  children  of  men!" 
Ps.  CVII. 

We  are  the  redeemed  of  the  Lord. 
We  have  accepted  of  the  principles  of 
redemption,  and  consequently  have 
been  sanctified  in  the  precious  blood 
of  Christ.  Those  who  love  God  and 
keep  His  commandments  represent 
Htm  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  They 
love  one  another,  and  they  are  known 
"by  their  works.  Their  faith  is  mani- 
fested by  their  works.  Then  we  have 
a  class  that  are  not  so  good,  that  aie 
not  so  faithful.  They  have  not  the 
faith  of  the  Gospel  so  much  as  this 
first  class,  who  represent  the  celestial 
kingdom.  But  they  are  those  who  rob 
the  Lord  in  tithes  and  offerings.  They 
are  those  who  are  not  valiant  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus.  They  are  those 
who  do  not  magnify  their  calling. 
Consequently  we  say  they  are  not  so 
good.  Then  we  have  another  class,  I 
presume,  representing  the  telestial. 
They  are  good  for  nothing.  But  we 
call  them  all  good.  These  are  the  sim- 
ple facts  In  the  case.  We  manifest 
our  position  by  our  works.  This  im- 
mense congregation  here,  I  suppose 
we  represent  the  different  degrees  of 
glory.  It  is  to  be  hoped  not.  It  is  to 
be  hoped  that  we  represent  the  celes- 
tial kingdom.  But  according  to  the 
testimony  of  the  Spirit  that  was 
manifested  here  by  some  of  the  breth- 
ren who  spoke,  there  are  quite  a  num- 
ber who  profess  to  be  Latter-day 
Saints,  but    are    not  of  the  celestial 


kingdom,  simply  because  they  do  not 
love  God  and  are  lukewarm. 

I  do  not  know  how  far  we  may 
be  justified  in  going  into  debt; 
but  we  were  admonished  years  ago  by 
President  John  Taylor  to  keep  out  of 
debt.  We  are  too  generous.  We  are 
too  thoughtless.  There  has  been  an 
immense  amount  of  means  spent  for 
educational  purposes.  It  is  a  good 
thing,  if  we  do  not  get  an  arti- 
ficial education.  I  regard  the 
education  of  the  world  as  an 
artificial  education.  You  do  not  see 
faith  manifested;  you  do  not  see  the 
power  of  God  maifested.  You  have  a 
people  that  are  lifted  up  because  of 
their  scholastic  attainments,  like  men 
are  lifted  up  when  they  acquire  the 
riches  of  this  world.  They  are  lifted 
up  in  pride,  and  think  themselves  bet- 
ter than  those  who  have  not  been  so 
fortunate  as  themselves  to  obtain  that 
class  of  an  education.  I  say  it  is  an 
artificial  education.  If  we  are  going 
to  redeem  Zion,  we  will  have  to  re- 
deem it  by  faith.  And  Zion  could  be 
redeemed  today  if  we  would  live  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  But  as  long 
as  we  are  hearers  of  the  word  and  we 
do  not  do  the  will  of  the  Lord,  Zion 
will  never  be  redeemed  by  us.  It  will 
be  redeemed  by  the  laws  of  the  celes- 
tial kingdom.  If  we  cannot  live  the 
laws  of  the  terrestrial  kingdom,  how 
is  it  possible  we  can  attain  to  celestial 
glory?  If  we  cannot  live  the  condi- 
tion that  lead  to  the  celestial  glory, 
we  cannot  obtain  it.  If  we  cannot  live 
the  principles  that  lead  to  the  terres- 
trial glory,  we  cannot  attain  to  it. 

This  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  is  to 
every  individual,  whether  they  are 
Jew  or  Gentile,  bond  or  free,  Catholic 
or  Protestant.  It  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  them  to  cease  from  all  their 
evil  ways;  and  all  their  false  worship, 
and  from  teaching  for  commandments 
the  doctrines  of  men;  for  the  Lord  has 
stretched  forth  His  hand  again.  As 
He  declared  by  the  Prophet  Isaiah: 

"For  as  much  as  this  people  draw 
near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with 
their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  re- 
moved their  heart  far  from  me,  ana 
their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  tht 
precept  of  men; 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 
do  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shali 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their 
prudent  men  shall  be  hid."  [Isa. 
XXIX,  13.  14.] 

Here  is  an  object  lesson — the  gather- 
ing of  this  people  today  at  this  Confer- 
ence, under  the  shadow  of  a  Temple 
of  God,  pointing  to  the  nations  that 
God  has  restored  His  Priesthood  and 
given  authority  to  men  to  officiate  in 
the  ordinances  of  the  House  of  the 
Lord.  Here  is  the  fulfillment  of  the 
prophecy: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last 
days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top 
of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalt- 
ed above  the  hills;  and  all  nations 
shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say. 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob;  and  He  will  teach 
us  of  His  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in 
His  paths."  [Isa.  II,  2,  3.] 

That  is  what  I  came  here  for.  That 
is  what  my  fellow  laborers  came  here 
for.  We  came  to  this  country  to  learn 
the  ways  of  God  and  to  walk  in  His 
paths.  We  had  a  testimony  given  unto 
us  in  the  lands  where  we  were  born, 
God  revealed  himself  unto  us  by  the 
power  of  His  Spirit,  and  bore  testi- 
mony to  us  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
sent  of  God.  We  testified  of  this 
forty-five  years  ago,  and  have  been 
testifying  of  it  ever  since.  We  do  not 
beguile  the  people.  We  are  their 
friends.  We  do  not  teach  them  in- 
correct principles.  We  do  not  dis- 
tribute in  various  counties  anti-Cath- 
olic tracts  or  anti-Protestant  tracts. 
We  have  respect  for  every  man's 
opinion.  We  show  him  the  better 
way.  If  he  has  something  good,  we 
show  him  there  is  something  better, 
we  have  the  truth,  the  light  and  the 
way,  and  we  invite  all  mankind  to 
come  and  assist  us  in  the  establish- 
ment of  the  righteousness  of  God  upon 
the  earth. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Lord  requires  our  appreciation.  He 
wants  us  to  appreciate  Him  and  His 
loving  kindness.  He  wants  us  to  ac- 
knowledge His  hand  in  all  things.  He 
wants  our  hearts.  He  wants  us  to  love 
Him  and  keep  His  commandments. 
This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord,  will  we  do 


it?  Will  we  cease  from  our  conten- 
tion? Will  we  cease  from  our  back- 
biting, our  evil  speaking?  Will  we 
cease  from  all  evil  and  learn  to  do 
right,  and  walk  in  the  light  as  He  is 
in  the  light,  that  we  may  have  sweet 
fellowship  with  each  other,  and  that 
the  blood  of  Christ  may  cleanse  us 
from  all  sin?  This  is  the  question  that 
comes  to  every  individual.  The  word 
of  the  Lord  is  to  us  individually.  Will 
we  love  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, and  seek  to  establish  His 
Zion?  It  is  no  use  coming  to  Con- 
ference and  hearing  the  word  of  the 
Lord  unless  we  do  it.  There  have 
been  powerful  testimonies  borne  here 
from  the  commencement,  when  Pres- 
ident Cannon  referred  to  the  fulfillment 
of  prophecy.  It  is  common  amongst 
us.  We  have  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
and  it  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy.  We 
do  not  say  this  boastingly;  we  say  it 
because  it  is  true.  We  understand  our 
own  nothingness,  our  own  insignifi- 
cance, and  that  we  are  entirely  de- 
pendent upon  God  our  Eternal  Father. 
We  do  not  profess  to  any  partlculai 
virtues;  but  we  are  striving  to  love 
God  and  keep  His  commandments,  and 
to  glorify  Him  in  our  good  works. 
We  preach  the  Gospel  of  righteousness; 
and  we  are  just  as  much  responsible 
to  carry  out  these  principles  as  those 
unto  whom  the  word  is  given  through, 
us.  The  Lord  will  have  our  heartb, 
and  He  will  not  allow  us  to  put  our 
affections  upon  anything  that  would 
overshadow  our  affection  for  Him. 

Let  me  say,  in  conclusion,  that  the 
principle  of  tithing  is  a  correct  prin- 
ciple. The  Lord  requires  one-tenth  of 
everything  that  He  gives  to  us.  I 
never  heard  this  principle  more  sim- 
ply explained  than  by  one  of  our  good 
sisters  in  teaching  a  Primary  class  in 
the  Sabbath  school.  She  said  to  the 
children,  "Supposing  your  father  was 
to  give  you  ten  apples,  and  he  asked 
you  to  give  one  of  them  back  again, 
and  you  would  not  do  it,  would  you 
not  be  considered  very  covetous?" 
Why,  they  smiled  to  think  that  the 
father  should  give  them  ten  apples 
and  they  should  be  unwilling  to  give 
him  one  back  again.  That  is  just  the 
position  we  are  in  when  we  are  not 
willing  to  obey  this  law.  The  Lord 
requires  one-tenth  of  everything  that 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  the  dispensation  of  His  providence 
He  gives  unto  us.  That  is  all  He 
asks,  and  that  we  should  have  our 
ears  open  to  the  cry  of  the  widow  and 
the  fatherless,  that  we  should  be  gen- 
erous and  large-hearted,  that  we 
should  not  be  covetous.  Can  you  not 
understand  this  principle?  We  want 
to  give  Him  half,  or  a  quarter,  or  we 
want  to  bite  a  piece  off  the  apple  and 
give  it  to  Him.  Anything  but  what  is 
due  Him!  Do  not,  for  our  own  sake, 
make  this  record.  As  we  value  our  hap- 
piness and  our  own  advancement,  let 
us  be  true  and  faithful  in  the  discharge 
of  our  duties,  and  not  rob  the  Lord 
our  God;  for  everything  that  we  have 
is  given  unto  us  by  Him.  And  He 
has  declared  that  if  we  will  love  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments,  we  shall 
prosper  in  the  land.  Do  you  believe 
it?  I  bear  testimony  that  the  law  of 
tithing  is  true.  "Prove  me  now 
herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts, 
if  I  will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you 
out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it."  [Mai.  Ill, 
10.] 

I  can  bear  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  remarks  of  Brother  Merrill, 
that  if  a  man  will  love  God  and  keep 
His  commandments,  He  will  deliver 
him  from  all  evil  and  from  all  his 
financial  troubles.  We  exhort  the 
world  to  do  this;  but  here  are  a  num- 
ber of  people,  gathered  from  the  north 
and  the  south,  the  east  and  the  west, 
and  they  demonstrate  that  they  do  not 
appreciate  it.  How  do  they  demon- 
strate it?  By  robbing  Him  in  tithe» 
and  offerings;  by  being  slothful  in 
their  duties;  by  being  indifferent  to 
the  magnifying  of  the  Aaronic  and 
Melchisedek  Priesthoods.  And  Zion 
can  never  be  redeemed  under  such  a 
condition.  I  say  to  all,  especially  to 
myself,  repent,  and  let  us  turn  over  a 
new  leaf;  let  us  cease  our  slothfulness, 
our  indifference,  and  let  it  be  manifest 
to  Almighty  God  that  we  appreciate 
His  loving  kindness,  that  we  appre- 
ciate His  redemption,  that  we  appre- 
ciate the  glorious  hope  of  everlasting 
lives,  in  a  glorious  resurrection,  by  our 
works  being  coupled  with  our  faith  to 
the  glory  of  the  Father,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Impetus  to  mutual  Improvement— Organization 
of  home  beneficent  societies—  The  crisis  in  o>r 
National  affairs. 

I  do  not  remember  having  heard  a 
single  word,  either  read  or  spoken,  by 
our  brethren   during  this  Conference 
that  I  did  not  endorse.    It  seems  to 
me  that  each  one  of  the  brethren  has 
presented  some  item  that  should  cause 
us  to  reflect  seriously  upon  the  good- 
ness and  mercy  extended  unto  us  by 
our  Heavenly  Father.    The  aged  who 
heard  the  cry  in  the  land  from  whence 
they  came,  "Come  out  of  her  my  peo- 
ple, that    ye    be  not  partakers  of  her 
sins,  and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her 
plagues,"  should    rejoice,    and  their 
children  and  their  children's  children 
should  continue  in  that  rejoicing.  One 
suggestion  contained  in  the  remarks 
of  Elder  Merrill  this  forenoon,  of  the 
brother  who  would  have  been  pleased 
to  have  taken  from  his  swill  barrel 
the  food  that  was  applied  in  the  di- 
rection of  providing  for  domestic  ani- 
mals, is  one,  probably,  that  hosts  of 
young  people  whose  homes  have  been 
in  this  mountain  region,  cannot  as  yet 
fully  appreciate.    Fathers  and  mothers 
of  mature  years  may  appreciate  this 
suggestion;  some  of  our  brothers  and 
sisters  who  have  been  unsuccessful  in 
securing      proper    labor,    within  re- 
cent years,  may  have  been  made  to 
taste    in    some    limited  degree  these 
conditions,  as  did  the  early  Pioneers  in 
their  experiences — the  blessing  that  a 
well-stocked    swill    barrel  would  pre- 
sent   to  the    hungry  man  or  woman. 
Each    suggestion    presented    for  our 
consideration    during    this  Conference 
has    been    of    a    practical  character, 
whether  applied  directly  to  the  tem- 
poral conditions  that  surround  us  in 
life    or    to  those  conditions  that  we 
speak  of  as  spiritual.    The  labors  and 
ministrations  of  the  past  few  months 
by  quite  an  army  of  young  men,  un- 
der the  direction  of  President  Wood- 
ruff and  his  aids,  who  made  a  tour  of 
the  various  Stakes  in  Zion,  and  visit- 
ed the  homes  of  the  people,  interviewed 
their  sons  and  their  daughters,  and 
awakened  an  interest  in  the  minds  of 
those  sons  in  those  associations  estab- 
lished in  connection  with  the  work  of 
God,  and  the  calling  in,  as  suggested 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


55 


in  the  remarks  Of  one  of  the  brethren, 
of  about  13,000  souls,  give  to  us  the 
possibilities  of  missionary  work  among 
the  covenant  people  of  God  and  pre- 
sent before  our  vision  the  opportunity 
to  consider  the  possibilities  that  at- 
tend the  spread  of  the  truth  among 
those  spirits  who  have  been  forgotten 
and  reared  among  that  gathered  Is- 
rael who  have  been  called  to  come 
forth  from  among  the  people  of  the 
world.  Many  received  and  believed 
the  testimonies  of  our  young  brethren 
whose  hearts  and  minds  were  bent 
upon  arousing  to  life  by  nurturing  it, 
the  Gospel  that  had  been  planted  in  the 
breasts  of  the  number  that  I  have 
named.  It  cannot  be  anticipated  that 
the  brief  but  earnest  efforts  made 
during  the  winter  season  to  gather 
the  young  men  into  these  associations 
organized  for  them  can  have  accom- 
plished all  that  should  be  desired  in 
connection  with  this  matter.  But  it 
is  a  matter  of  joy  to  those  who  have 
been  engaged  in  this  ministry,  that 
our  Father  did  sweeten  their  words  and 
arouse  to  reflection  the  hosts  of  young 
men  who  will  remain  earnest  and  de- 
voted laborers  within  this  fold,  and 
who,  perchance,  will  be  found  when- 
ever they  will  be  needed  in  connection 
with  the  development  of  the  work  of 
God,  using  the  talents  with  which 
their  Maker  has  endowed  them  for 
the  furtherance  of  His  purposes. 
There  remains,  without  doubt,  large 
numbers  who  may  have  been  aroused 
temporarily  to  reflect  upon  the  sacred 
obligations  of  the  Gospel,  and  who 
may  have  fallen  temporarily  from 
grace  to  be  followed  by  the  laborers 
in  these  various  fields  with  a  devo- 
tion and  earnestness  that  shall  cause 
them  to  continue,  at  least,  to  strive 
to  know  more  fully  of  the  work  of 
God.  With  their  hearts  gladdened 
and  their  minds  aroused,  their  under- 
standings educated,  the  spirit  of  truth 
distilled  upon  those  minds  shall  fasten 
there,  that  none  of  them,  perchance, 
may  fail  in  the  receipt  of  the  impress 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  in  such 
form  as  to  brighten  their  entire  lives. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters, 
fathers  and  mothers,  Bishops  and 
counselors,  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
High  Councilors,  that  the  work  that 
has  been  inaugurated  in  this  direction 


— which  calls  from  the  den  of  infamy, 
from  the  places  where  loafers  congre- 
gate and  from  the  places  where  evil 
and  crime  is  begotten,  through  the 
gathering  together  of  young  men  and 
young  boys,  assailing  each  man  in  the 
spirit  of  that  missionary  labor  which 
has  called  so  many  during  the  brief 
period  of  the  last  winter  season  to  at 
least  enroll  themselves  in  the  hope  of 
a  nobler  and  better  development  of 
themselves,  and  all  maintaining  the 
spirit  of  that  work  who  have  been 
aroused  from  the  sleep  of  idleness  to 
the  understanding  of  the  relationship 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  will  continue  their 
ministrations  until  every  son  and  every 
daughter  in  Zion,  every  stranger  with- 
in her  borders  in  every  home  shall 
hear  the  voice  of  testimony  making  its 
declaration  that  God  indeed  does  live, 
and  that  His  holy  truths  restored  in 
these  latter  days  are  surely  among 
the  children  of  men.  I  trust,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  the  same  spirit 
that  has  actuated  these  young  men 
who  have  gone  forth  to  prove  Zion, 
to  test  the  faith  of  parents,  to  scatter 
the  seeds  of  life,  to  point  out  the  way 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God,  will 
have  touched  your  hearts  in  such  form 
that  in  no  home  where  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel  has  come  shall  the  father  or 
mother,  the  son  or  daughter  fail  in 
any  degree,  having  received  the  sweet 
influence,  heard  the  still  small  voice 
of  the  spirit,  to  nurture  and  care  for 
and  develop  its  force  and  its  power 
within  their  breasts. 

There  is  another  item  that  I  have 
upon  my  mind,  upon  which  I  wish  to 
speak  for  a  few  moments,  as  I  discovei 
in  my  associations  among  the  peopie 
that  there  is  a  continuous  tendency 
for  our  young  men,  as  wall  as  many  of 
our  middle  aged  men,  to  ally  them- 
selves with  the  various  organizations, 
clubs  and  societies  formed  outside  of 
the  Church,  many  of  them  for  the  pur- 
pose cf  insurance,  that  theyf  may  be 
enabled  to  secure,  perchance,  a  few 
hundred  dollars  in  the  interest  of  their 
families,  should  accident  happen  them, 
or  in  their  own  interest  provided  they 
are  enfeebled  and  unable  to  discharge 
the  duties  and  responsibilities  that 
attach  to  them.  It  seems  to  me  that 
in  every  Stake  of  Zion  there  is  ample 
capacity  to  organize  mutual  aid  soci- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFER EACE. 


eties  within  our  own  circles,  among 
oui  own  members,  and  retain  at  home 
any  profits  that  may  ar«se  from  stitch 
organizations.  All  the  organizations 
of  this  character  within  our  State  are 
sending  off  hundreds  of  dollars  to  aid 
in  the  maintenance  of  people  in  other 
sections  of  the  land.  We  have  the 
skill,  we  have  the  ability,  we  ought  to 
have  the  practical  common  sense,  to 
be  able  to  form  and  adjust  these  as- 
sociations within  our  own  circles.  One 
hundred  men,  or  three  hundred,  pay- 
ing their  dollar  a  week  or  dollar  a 
month  into  a  fund  manipulated  and 
managed  by  themselves,  within  their 
own  circle,  and  thus  utilize  to  profit 
and  aid  their  brother  who  may  be 
afflicted,  or  to  pay  to  a  sister  should 
a  brother  be  removed  from  the  home 
circle.  As  it  is,  these  organizations 
are  reviving  their  money  and  sending 
a  certain  percentage  continuously  to 
the  heads  of  the  various  societies  from 
which  they  receive  their  organizations, 
and  keeping  a  portion  of  it  possibly  at 
home.  I  believe  that  care  and  atten- 
tion should  be  bestowed  upon  these 
matters,  and  the  formation  of  mem- 
bership in  those  organizations  that 
look  after  and  guard  you  in  some 
measure  should  not  occur  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  I  would  not 
arouse  a  spirit  of  antagonism  in 
this  respect.  It  is  just  as  legitimate, 
just  as  proper  for  you  to  form  your 
organizations  in  your  circles  in  which 
you  legitimately  move  as  that  others 
should  form  them  and  you  pay  tribute 
to  them. 

I  desire  to  raise  my  voice  in  com- 
mendation of  the  position  that  has 
been  assumed  by  President  McKinley 
and  his  cabinet  on  the  question  affect- 
ing Spain,  and  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  should  be  the 
prayer  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
our  nation  be  preserved  from  war, 
and  that  the  efforts  to  maintain  peace 
should  be  carried  to  the  utmost  limit 
before  bloodshed  should  be  resorted  to. 
I  trust  that  this  feeling  pervades  the 
hearts  of  the  people  called  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  that  all  of  us  feel  within 
our  souls  a  determination  to  stand  for 
the  principles  of  right,  and  sustain  our 
government  in  every  proposition  of 
liberty,  justice  and  mercy  and  the 
maintenance  of  these  principles  of 
righteousness,  the  prevention    of  the 


shedding  of  blood,  to  the  most  reason- 
able extreme.  I  feel,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  thus  give  utterance  to  the 
sentiments  of  my  own  heart  and  mind 
upon  this  question,  and  that  the 
prayers  of  the  people  should  go  up  in 
an  appeal  that  God  shall  guide  the 
destinies  of  this  great  government  in 
such  form  that  its  mission  of  liberty 
to  the  human  race  may  be  accom- 
plished, in  that  way  that  life  and 
property,  and  happiness  and  peace, 
and  not  bloodshed,  shall  come  to  the 
children  of  men.  We  recognize  our 
Father's  purpose  in  connection  with 
the  development  of  this  work,  and  the 
world  receiving  the  message  we  have 
to  bear  will  be  remembered  by  Him 
in  the  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  that 
shall  exist  among  the  nations,  and  in 
the  seas  heaving  themselves  beyond 
their  bounds.  But  we  claim,  with 
hands  lifted  to  high  heaven,  that  we 
believe  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  a  revelation  from  God,  and 
opened  the  door  of  liberty  in  such  form 
that  His  sons  and  daughters  should 
be  permitted  to  possess  every  right 
and  every  privilege  that  mortal  should 
be  permitted  to  enjoy  in  the  flesh. 
The  extension  of  these  sentiments  and 
these  views  lie  dearest  to  the  heart  of 
every  man  and  every  woman  who  has 
become  conversant  with  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  trust  that 
we  will  not  permit  ourselves  in  the 
midst  of  the  excitement  that  arises 
to  shout  for  bloodshed,  but  on  the  con- 
trary to  desire  that  God  shall  direct 
the  hand  that  has  been  placed  to  guide 
the  destinies  of  this  nation  at  the  pres- 
ent time,  and  make  the  minds  of 
leading  men  of  the  nation  wise 
and  broad  and  firm  upon  the  princi- 
ples of  right. 

May  heaven's  peace  and  blessing 
abound  in  every  heart;  may  God  be 
glorified,  the' truth  spread,  liberty  in- 
crease, justice  and  mercy  abound,  is 
my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

At  the  conclusion  of  Elder  Smith's 
remarks  the  great  congregation  arose 
and,  with  the  choir,  sang,  with  deep 
feeling, 

"My  country  'tis  of  thee, 

Sweet  land  of  Liberty." 


PRESIDEN1   WILFORD  WOODRUFF 


51 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF 

Origin  of  Zlon'sj  camps— Notable  prophecy  by 
Joseph  Smith — Christ  to  come  to  the  Saints  In  the 
mountains. 

In  1833  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  driven  out  of 
Jackson  County,  Mo.,  for  the  word  of 
God  and  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ. 
There  Bishop  Partridge  was  tarred 
and  feathered  by  the  mob.  That  was 
the  time  of  the  falling  of  the  stars  jn 
that  country.  Soon  afterwards  Bish- 
op Partridge  called  for  volunteers  to 
go  to  Kirtland  to  see  the  Prophet. 
Two  men  volunteered  out  of  those  who 
had  been  driven  from  Jackson  County. 
One  was  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  the  other 
was  Lyman  Wight.  They  went  to 
Kirtland  and  laid  before  the  Prophet 
the  circumstances,  and  the  Prophet 
called  these  two  men,  and  others,  to 
go  abroad  and  gather  up  the  strength 
of  the  Lord's  house  and  to  prepare 
the  camp  of  Zion.  Parley  P.  Pratt 
came  to  my  house.  I  had  just  been* 
baptized.  I  was  engaged  for  a  year  in 
furnishing  lumber  by  contract.  Parley 
P.  Pratt  told  me  it  was  my  duty  to 
lay  aside  all  my  temporal  matters,  go 
to  Kirtland,  and  join  Zion's  camp.  I 
obeyed  his  counsel.  I  arrived  in  Kirt- 
land on  Saturday  and  there  met  with 
Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith  in  the  street. 
I  was  introduced  to  Joseph  Smith.  It 
was  the  first  time  that  I  had  ever  seen 
him  in  my  life.  He  invited  me  home 
to  spend  the  Sabbath  with  him,  and  I 
did  so.    They  had  meeting  on  Sunday. 

On  Sunday  night  the  Prophet  called 
on  all  who  held  the  Priesthood  to 
gather  into  the  little  log  school  house 
they  had  there.  It  was  a  small  house, 
perhaps  14  feet  square.  But  it  held 
the  whole  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  were  then  in  the  town  of 
Kirtland,  and  who  had  gathered  to- 
gether to  go  off  in  Zion's  camp.  That 
was  the  first  time  I  ever  saw  Oliver 
Cowdery,  or  heard  him  speak;  the 
first  time  I  ever  saw  Brigham  Young 
and  Heber  C.  Kimball,  and  the  two 
Pratts,  and  Orson  Hyde  and  many 
others.  There  were  no  Apostles  in  the 
Church  then  except  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery.  When  we  got  to- 
gether the  Prophet  called  upon  the 
Elders  of  Israel  with  him  to  bear 
testimony  of  this  work.     Those  that 


I  have  named  spoke,  and  a  good  many 
that  I  have  not  named,  bore  their 
testimonies.  When  they  got  through 
the  Prophet  said,  "Brethren  I  have 
been  very  much  edified  and  instruct- 
ed in  your  testimonies  here  tonight, 
but  I  want  to  say  to  you  before  the 
Lord,  that  you  know  no  more  concern- 
ing the  destinies  of  this  Church  and 
kingdom  than  a  babe  upon  its  mother's 
lap.  You  don't  comprehend  it."  I 
was  rather  surprised.  He  said  "it  is 
only  a  little  handfull  of  Priesthood 
you  see  here  tonight,  but  this  Church 
will  fill  North  and  South  America — it 
will  fill  the  world."  Among  other 
things  he  said,  "it  will  fill  the  Rocky 
Mountains.  There  will  he  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  Latter-day  Saints  who  will 
be  gathered  in  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
and  there  they  will  open  the  door  for 
7  establishing  of  the  Gospel  anions 
the  Lamanites,  who  will  receive  the 
Gospel  and  their  endowments  and  the 
&43yhSTs  of  God.  This  people  will  go 
into  the  Rocky  Mountains;  they  will 
there  build  temples  to  the  Most  High. 
They  will  raise  up  a  posterity  there, 
and  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  dwell 
in  these  mountains  will  stand  in  thi? 
flesh  until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man.  The  Son  of  Man  will  come  to 
them  while  in  the  Rocky  Mountains." 

I  name  these  things  because  I  want 
to  bear  testimony  before  God,  angels 
and  men  that  mine  eyes  behold  the 
day,  and  have  beheld  for  the  last  fifty 
years  of  my  life,  the  fulfillment  of 
that  prophecy.  I  never  expected  to  see 
the  Rocky  Mountains  when  I  listened 
to  that  man's  voice,  but  I  have,  and 
do  today.  I  will  say  here  that  I  shall 
not  live  to  see  it,  you  may  not  live  to 
see  it;  but  these  thousands  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  children  that  belong  to  the 
Sabbath  schools,  I  believe  many  of 
them  will  stand  in  the  flesh  when  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  visits  the  Zion  of 
God  here  in  the  mountains  of  Israel. 
And  while  I  bear  testimony  before 
God,  angels  and  men,  that  mine  eyes 
behold  the  fulfillment  of  the  revelation 
given  that  night,  I  just  as  much  be- 
lieve the  remaining  part  of  it  will  be 
fulfilled  as  I  stand  here  in  the  flesh. 
I  rejoice  at  seeing  the  progress  of  the 
work  that  lies  before  us.  There  is  a 
great  work  before  this  people  in  the 
fulfillment    of    these    prophecies  that 


58 


GENERAL.  CONFEREE  CE 


have  been  given.  Joseph  Smith  was 
full  of  revelation.  He  foresaw  this 
people,  and  this  work  until  it  was 
wound  up. 

My  prayer  to  God  is  that  we  may 
pursue  such  a  course  that  we  may  en- 
joy and  receive  all  these  blessings,  and 
our  posterity  after  us.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

The  volume  of  progress  Increasing — The  Renins  of 
peace  and  the  8  lrlt  of  patriotism— Portents  of 
war— Hospitality  of  southern  people— Salvation 
and  life  In  the  Gospel . 

The  time  of  this  Conference  is  very 
precious,  but  it  is  sufficient  for  us  to 
bear  our  testimonies  to  one  another 
and  to  speak  of  the  goodness  of  the 
Lord.  This  is  a  great  day  in  Zion;  a 
great  day  for  Israel.  This  is  the 
nucleus  of  the  work  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  This  Tabernacle,  this  great 
Temple,  this  great  people  gathered  to- 
gether, is  the  great  center  for  the  work 
of  the  Lord  in  the  earth,  and  the  honor 
and  the  glory  shall  be  the  Lord's  and 
not  ours.  The  work  is  progressing 
more  rapidly  than  ever  before.  We 
are  working  harder  abroad  and  at 
home.  The  Presidency  and  the  Apos- 
tles, and  home  missionaries  and  for- 
eign missionaries  are  all  laboring  dili- 
gently, and  their  efforts  are  being 
crowned  with  success. 

The  time  will  never  come,  probably, 
until  the  Savior  appears,  when  we  will 
not  have  difficulties  to  overcome  and 
trials  to  pass  through.  We  are  here 
for  that  purpose,  and  every  trial  that 
has  been  given  to  us,  of  every  nature, 
has  been  for  our  benefit,  and  has 
tended  to  try  and  prove  us.  We  may 
be  tried  in  war  as  well  as  in  peace,  but 
we  should  be  peacemakers.  "Blessed 
are  the  peacemakers,  for  they  shall  be 
called  the  children  of  God."  We  want 
peace.  We  should  preach  peace,  teach 
peace,  pray  for  it,  live  for  it,  and  do 
everything  on  earth  for  peace  that  is 
honorable  before  we  engage  in  war. 
We  love  our  country.  We  love  our 
kindred  and  friends,  like  other  people, 
and  are  willing  to  serve  our  country; 
and  there  is  no  doubt,  if  the  difficulties 
are  to  commence  at  the  house  of  the 
Lord,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
be  proven  in  this  regard.  So  far,  we 
have  not  had  occasion  to  engage  in 
the  wars  of  our  country  to  any  very 


great  extent,  but  when  we  have  been 
called  upon  we  have  always  respond- 
ed; and  if  our  nation  should  be  In 
trouble  today,  as  It  seems  to  be  threat- 
ened, the  government  of  our  country 
will  find  as  generous  a  response  from 
this  State  as  from  any  other  state  in 
the  Union,  according  to  the  number 
of  the  people;  for  we  love  the  insti- 
tutions of  liberty  and  of  freedom.  But 
we  want  peace,  because  we  are  a 
peaceable  people,  and  we  want  to 
preach  the  Gospel  that  has  been  re- 
stored to  us.  The  authority  of  the 
Lord  has  been  conferred  upon  us  that 
the  Gospel  may  be  preached  among 
all  nations.  That  is  our  mission,  and 
we  don't  want  war.  The  mothers 
don't  want  war.  The  fathers  don't 
want  war.  We  wish  to  avoid  it  if  it 
can  possibly  be  done.  We  desire  to  be 
numbered  among  the  peacemakers  who 
shall  be  called  the  children  of  God. 
Our  faith  should  be  exercised  to  ob- 
tain peace  and  to  maintain  it  in  the 
earth;  for  war  is  terrible.  It  was  ter- 
rible when  there  was  war  in  heaven, 
and  the  rebels  were  overcome  and  cast 
out,  and  then  peace  reigned  there. 
War  may  come  to  our  country.  Ru- 
mors of  wars  are  heard  in  every  land. 
We  will  see  what  the  Savior  says  in 
regard  to  this  matter: 

"For  as  the  lightning  cometh  out  of 
the  east,  and  shineth  even  unto  the 
west;  so  shall  also  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  man  be. 

"And  Jesus  went  out,  and  departed 
from  the  temple;  and  His  disciples 
came  to  him  for  to  shew  him  the 
buildings  of  the  temple. 

"And  Jesus  said  unto  them,  See  ye 
not  all  these  things?  Verily  I  say  unto 
you,  There  shall  not  be  left  here  one 
stone  upon  another,  that  shall  not  be 
thrown  down. 

"And  as  He  sat  upon  the  mount  of 
Olives,  the  .disciples  came  unto  Him 
privately,  saying,  Tell  us,  when  shall 
these  things  be?  and  what  shall  be 
the  sign  of  Thy  coming,  and  of  the  end 
of  the  world? 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  Take  heed  that  no  man  deceive 
you. 

•  "For  many  shall  come  in  my  name, 
saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  shall  deceive 
many. 

"And  ye  shall  hear  of  wars,  and  ru- 


ELDER  ERA  AC. 

mors  of  wars;  see  that  ye  be  not 
troubled;  for  all  these  things  must 
come  to  pass,  but  the  end  Is  not  yet. 

"For  nation  shall  rise  against  nation, 
and  kingdom  against  kingdom;  and 
there  shall  be  famines,  and  pestilences, 
and  earthquakes  in  divers  places. 

"All  these  are  the  beginning  of  sor- 
rows." 

"Watch,  therefore;  for  ye  know  not 
what  hour  your  Lord  doth  come. 

"But  know  this,  that  if  the  good  man 
of  the  house  had  known  in  what  watch 
the  thief  would  come,  he  would  have 
watched,  and  would  not  have  suffered 
his  house  to  be  broken  up. 

"Therefore  be  ye  also  ready;  for  in 
such  an  hour  as  ye  think  not,  the  Son 
of  Man  cometh. 

"Who  then  is  a  faithful  and  wise 
servant,  whom  his  lord  hath  made 
ruler  over  his  household,  to  give  them 
meat  in  due  season? 

"Blessed  is  that  servant,  whom  his 
lord,  when  he  cometh,  shall  find  so  do- 
ing. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you.  That  he  shall 
make  him  ruler  over  all  his  goods. 

"But  and  if  that  evil  servant  shall 
say  in  his  heart,  My  lord  delayeth  hib 
coming; 

"And  shall  begin  to  smite  his  fellow- 
servants,  and  to  eat  and  drink  with 
the  drunken; 

"The  lord  of  that  servant  shall  come 
in  a  day  when  he  looketh  not  for  him, 
and  in  an  hour  that  he  is  not  aware 
of, 

"And  shall  cut  him  asunder,  and  ap- 
point him  his  portion  with  the  hypo- 
crites; there  shall  be  weeping  and 
gnashing  of  teeth." 

We  have  heard  today  from  Presi- 
dent Woodruff  the  words  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  spoken  sixty-five  years  ago. 
He  told  at  that  time  what  we  see  to- 
day, and  that  this  is  the  preparation 
of  the  people  of  God  for  the  coming  of 
the  Lord  upon  the  earth.  And  He  will 
come,  and  His  coming  will  not  be  de- 
layed. The  end,  however,  is  not  yet, 
but  approaches.  And  it  is  important 
that  those  who  have  received  author- 
ity from  heaven  should  be  like  watch- 
men upon  the  walls  of  Zion,  and  speak 
forth  to  the  multitude  when  God  com- 
mands, and  say,  be  not  troubled,  for 
the  end  is  not  yet.  Be  not  troubled 
because  there  are  wars  and  rumors 
of  wars  in  the  earth,  for  these  things 


'S  M.  LYMAN  59 

must  be;  but  let  Ud  attend  to  our  labor 
and  let  us  pray  that  this  cup  of 
trouble  and  war  may  pass,  because  It 
would  be  terrible.  It  always  has  been 
terrible  and  it  will  always  be,  to  the 
end,  when  wars  and  trouble  come. 
Christians  should  always  pray  and  la- 
bor for  peace.  The  last  thing  for 
Christians  to  ever  do  is  to  fight  for 
peace. 

When  I  listened  to  President  Smith 
this  morning  relating  the  experience 
of  an  Elder  who  had  been  traveling 
here  without  purse  and  scrip,  and  how 
generously  he  was  treated,  I  could  not 
help  but  remember  how  not  only  one 
Elder  was  treated  in  the  Southern 
States,  but  how  the  Elders  were  treat- 
ed by  the  forties — not  in  a  city  like 
Salt  Lake  City,  but  in  the  country 
where  people  were  sparsely  settled. 
They  would  take  in  forty  and  fifty  of 
us  at  a  time,  and  they  were  not  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  either.  They  would 
feed  us,  and  lodge  us,  take  care  of  us 
and  move  us  for  four  days  at  a  time. 
They  did  this  in  numbers  of  instances 
in  the  Southern  States.  The  Elders 
there  are  feeling  splendidly,  and  their 
influence  among  the  people  and  th-? 
officials  of  the  country  is  good.  The 
great  change  that  has  been  wrought 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people  in  that 
country  is  remarkable,  since  President 
Woodruff  announced,  at  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  that 
that  great  change  would  come.  It  has 
come,  and  the  word  of  God  through 
him  has  been  fulfilled  and  continues 
to  be  fulfilled  and  will  be  to  the  very 
letter.  The  words  of  the  Lord  will  all 
be  verified  that  are  contained  in  this 
sacred  book  (the  Bible),  though  infi- 
dels and  others  may  war  upon  it,  it  is 
the  truth,  it  is  the  word  of  God.  Men 
may  do  as  they  please  with  it,  but  it 
contains  the  truth.  And  it  contains 
the  history  of  the  dealings  of  God 
with  His  children.  The  same  is  true 
with  regard  to  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants. Men  will  war  upon  them,  as 
they  have  upon  the  Bible,  but  they 
will  not  war  any  more  successfully 
or  industriously.  For  these  books,  be 
it  known,  contain  the  words  of  the 
Lord.  I  bear  my  testimony  to  their 
truth  and  divinity,  and  to  the  divinity 
of  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and    of    the    mission    of  the 


6o 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Prophet  Brigham  Young,  and  of  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor  and  of  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  Prophets  of  the 
Lord,  and  their  brethren  who  are  here. 
I  bear  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  youi 
mission  as  well  as  ours.  For  your  mis- 
sion is  just  as  sacred  as  ours.  You  are 
the  children  of  God.  You  have  had 
His  testimony  and  spirit  burning  in 
your  souls.  He  has  endowed  you  rich- 
ly with  it— all  of  us  more  generously 
than  we  deserve.  He  has  thus  led  us 
and  He  has  established  and  settled  utj 
in  the  truth. 

In  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  there 
is  salvation  and  life,  and  they  meet 
every  requirement  of  the  human  heart. 
There  is  not  a  thing  that  the  soul  of 
man  or  woman  needs  in  this  life,  or 
in  the  life  to  come,  that  is  not  met  in 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  this 
organization  which  is  so  perfect  and 
so  complete.  We  can  therefore  afford 
to  be  generous.  I  did  thank  the  Lord 
when  I  was  in  the  Southern  States  and 
in  the  Eastern  and  Northern  States, 
that  I  could  stand  before  those  people 
and  invite  their  ministers  to  come  to 
Utah  and  we  would  offer  them  congre- 
gations and  an  auditorium  such  as 
cannot  be  found  elsewhere  in  the 
United  States.  We  invite  them  to 
come  and  lay  their  doctrines  before 
the  people.  We  want  to  know  what 
the  doctrine  of  the  world  is.  We  don't 
want  the  people  kept  in  ignorance  of 
what  there  is  in  the  earth.  If  it  were 
so  would  we  be  found  putting,  today, 
in  our  magazine  for  the  young  people, 
what  we  are  publishing — the  doctrines 
of  Catholics  and  of  Protestants  of 
every  denomination,  written  from 
their  own  standpoint,  and  laying  them 
before  the  people?  Our  pulpits  are 
open  to  all  men  of  reputable  standing 
in  the  world,  who  are  made  welcome 
to  talk  to  us.  It  gave  us  strength  and 
an  influence  in  the  earth  to  be  able  to 
state  these  facts.  Why,  there  is  no 
such  sight  to  be  seen  in  the  world  as 
this  Tabernacle  of  the  Lord.  There  is 
nothing  to  compare  with  it.  In  its 
design  it  is  remarkable.  Just  realize 
what  has  been  accomplished  by  a  poor 
people.  And  if  we  be  poor  today,  the 
way  is  open  to  us  to  have  all  the 
means  we  need.  We  should  retrench 
in  our  living,  and  save  means.  There 
is  means  in  abundance  and  to  spare 


among  the  Latter-day  Saints  today,  to 
meet  all  the  obligations  of  individuals 
and  of  the  people  generally.  And  we 
ought  to  so  order  our  lives  in  harmony 
with  the  instructions  given  us  today 
by  Elder  Merrill,  which  are  so  choice, 
that  we  may  meet  our  obligations. 
Let  those  who  have  ample  themselves 
assist  those  who  have  not.  And  let 
them  live  together  as  one  family  and 
bring  salvation  to  each  and  all.  The 
very  Words  of  Wisdom  given  to  us  for 
the  temporal  salvation  of  the  people 
would,  in  three  years,  meet  all  the  ob- 
ligations of  this  Church  and  of  every 
member  in  it,  if  we  would  observe  that 
counsel.  Not  only  to  save  the  means 
that  are  spent  for  tea,  coffee,  tobacco 
and  liquor,  but  to  eat  less  of  meats 
and  let  the  meat  be  sold  to  others,  and 
let  us  live  upon  the  fruits  and  vege- 
tables. There  is  a  fortune  in  these 
things  for  the  people,  and  in  this  way 
we  can  easily  become  free.  We  ought 
to  be  the  most  independent  people  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth  for  means  of  every 
kind. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  bless  ut> 
during  this  Conference.  Oh,  how  1 
thank  the  Lord  whenever  President 
Woodruff  stands  up  and  talks  to  the 
Church!  And  we  want  that  voice  for 
so  many  years  yet  to  remain  among 
us.  We  do  not  want  his  voice  stilled. 
For  the  voices  of  the  others  of  the 
older  ones  have  been  stilled  who  bore 
the  Apostleship  in  the  days  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph.  President  Woodruff 
is  the  only  man  living  that  enjoyed 
that  honor  during  the  life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph.  Let  me  exhort  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  indeed 
Latter-day  Saints.  Take  care  of  your- 
selves individually  and  be  Saints  of 
God;  and  remember  if  we  do  not  sur- 
vive until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man,  we  are. then,  anyway,  in  the  very 
condition  we  ought  to  be  in  to  pass, 
away.  We  are  ready  to  die  and  to 
meet  the  Lord.  It  is  as  necessary  that 
we  should  be  ready  to  meet  Him  on 
the  other  side,  as  to  be  prepared  for 
Him  at  His  coming  here.  But  He  will 
come,  and  He  will  come  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  nations  of  the  earth.  They 
shall  know  it  and  shall  fear  and  trem- 
ble at  the  coming  of  the  great  God  to 
reign  upon  the  earth.    This  is  my  tes- 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNO lb. 


61 


timony  to  you  and  to  the  world.  And 
I  speak  as  one  who  is  authorized  thus 
to  speak  of  the  Son  of  God,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

"The  Holy  City,"  was  beautifully 
sung  by  Brother  George  D.  Pyper. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Praise  God  from  Whom  All  Blessings 
Plow. 

Conference  adjourned  till  10  a.  m. 
Sunday,  April  11th. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


FOURTH  DAY. 


Sunday,  April  10th,  10  a.m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion; 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Orson  Smith. 
Singing  by  the  choir  of  the  hymn 
which  begins: 

Lo!  the  mighty  God  appearing. 
From  on  high  Jehovah  speaks! 

Eastern  lands  the  summons  hearing, 
O'er  the  west  His  thunder  breaks. 

Earth  behold  Him! 
Universal  nature  speaks. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

Contemplation  of  past  and  present— Prepara- 
tion for  the  future — Saving  results  of  self-denial 
— Existence  and  progress  of  man  eternal — Mag- 
nanimity of  Moses  and  fidelity  of  Abraham — The 
return  to  Missouri. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  for  our  instruc- 
tion this  morning,  in  part  at  least,  I 
will  read  some  paragraphs  in  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"My  disciples,  in  days  of  old,  sought 
occasion  against  one  another,  and  for- 
gave not  one  another  in  their  hearts, 
and  for  this  evil  they  were  afflicted, 
and  sorely  chastened; 

"Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes, standeth  condemned  before 
the  Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him 
the  greater  sin.  (Doc.  and  Cov.,  Sec. 
64,  pars.  8  and  9.) 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining these  two  Priesthoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying 
their    calling,    are    sanctified  by  the 


Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their 
bodies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham, 
and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the 
elect  of  God; 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father, 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him; 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
Priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
Priesthood,  receiveth  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  my  Father,  which  he  can- 
not break,  neither  can  it  be  moved." 
(Doc.  and  Cov.,  Sec.  84,  pars.  33  to  40.) 

With  the  exercise  of  your  faith,  I 
wish  to  say  a  few  words,  perhaps  not 
altogether  in  connection  with  what 
I  have  read,  but  as  the  Spirit  shall 
dictate.  I  always  feel  very  dependent 
and  humble  when  I  stand  before  and 
attempt  to  address  a  people  that  have 
been  serving  the  Lord  and,  at  least 
as  a  general  thing,  are  worthy  to  be 
called  Latter-day  Saints,  a  people  that 
have  received  a  knowledge  of  the 
things  of  God,  and  are  moving  onward 
in  the  path  of  exaltation  and  glory  to 
the  fulness  of  their  salvation.  As  I 
believe,  when  we  come  together  as  we 
have  this  beautiful  morning,  it  be- 
comes our  privilege  to  receive  instruc- 
tion from  those  persons  that  address 
ws,  and  if  we  do  not  the  fault,  gen- 
erally, is  in  ourselves.  It  is  our  priv- 
ilege   as    Latter-day    Saints  to  seize 


62 


GENERAL  C OA  FERE  ACE 


upon  those  opportunities  that  are 
afforded  us  to  make  a  proper  prepar- 
ation for  the  scenes  that  are  before  us 
and  in  which  we  may  be  called  to  act; 
and  as  the  difficulties  which  we  hav* 
to  meet  shall  increase  upon  us  per- 
haps and  become  harder  to  overcome, 
we  need  more  strength  in  order  to  re- 
sist the  temptations  and  to  discharge 
the  obligations  that  devolve  upon  us. 
I  suppose  it  would  be  with  Latter-day 
Saints  generally  as  with  me  in  regard 
to  this  point — that  as  we  advance  in 
years  and  come  nearer  to  what  we 
generally  consider  as  the  time  of  our 
departure  into  the  other  life  we  are 
more  inclined  to  devote  our  thoughts 
and  reflections  upon  those  things  that 
we  anticipate  we  may  receive  in  the 
next  life,  the  circumstances  that  may 
surround  us  there,  and  the  proper 
preparation  that  we  have  made  and 
are  making  to  reach  that  which  we 
anticipate.  I  know  it  is  so  with  me. 
In  my  85th  year  it  naturally  occurs  to 
me  that  it  is  very  well  to  take  into 
consideration  these  matters,  and  deep- 
ly too;  to  reflect  upon  the  past,  to  sec 
whether  we  have  improved  the  oppor- 
tunities along  the  line  of  our  trave», 
and  been  making  the  proper  prepara- 
tion; and  if  we  have  not  done  this,  to 
seek  now  to  make  amends  with  double 
diligence.  We  have  a  perfect  right  to 
understand  something  of  what  we  may 
receive  in  the  other  life.  We  have  to 
suffer  almost  everything  in  accom- 
plishing the  duties  that  are  imposed 
upon  us  in  moving  along  in  this  line 
that  we  have  chosen.  In  the  past,  if 
we  had  time  we  might  relate  the  vari- 
ous sacrifices  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  been  called  to  make;  and  if  they 
did  not  make  these  sacrifices  their 
own  consciences  would  condemn  them, 
because  of  the  light  which  they  had 
received  and  the  knowledge  they  had 
of  what  they  should  do.  It  has  proved 
very  truly  with  the  Latter-day  Saints 
what  Jesus  said  on  a  certain  occasion, 
when  He  compared  the  kingdom  of 
God  to  a  man  seeking  pearls.  Having 
found  one  of  very  great  value,  he  wen: 
and  sold  all  that  he  possessed  that  he 
might  secure  that  pearl.  Then  again 
He  compared  it  unto  a  man  that  found 
a  treasure  in  a  field,  which,  having 
found,  he  went  and  sold  everything 
that  he  possesssed  in  order  that  he 
might  come  in  possession  of  that  treas- 


ure. That  has  been  the  case  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  been 
called  to  suffer  and  to  sacrifice  that 
which  was  more  dear  to  ourselves 
than  our  lives,  and  some  have  been 
called  to  sacrifice  their  mortal  exist- 
ence, having  been  placed  in  circum- 
stances that  they  could  not  avoil 
suffering  the  loss  of  their  lives.  We 
are  called  upon  daily  to  make  sacri- 
fices. The  Lord  requiring  this  at  our 
hands,  and  we  as  a  general  thing 
having  complied,  it  is  our  privilege  to 
know  something  in  regard  to  the  fu- 
ture— what  will  be  the  result  of  this 
sacrifice,  what  will  be  the  result  of 
traveling  upon  this  path.  Indeed  a 
Latter-day  Saint  can  hardly  sustain 
himself  in  the  Church  of  God  unless  he 
does  get  some  knowledge  nt  this  kind, 
that  cannot  be  unfolded  ov  common 
wisdom.  We  are  no  better  than  other 
people  if  this  be  not  so. 

I  have  read  something  that  is  very 
peculiar  in  3-egard  to  the  promises  that 
are  made,  and  which  I  know  will  be 
fulfilled,  if  we  on  our  part  do  our  duty. 
I  have  not  lived  in  this  Church  for 
about  sixty-two  years  without  finding 
out  something.  I  devoted  myself  to 
be  worthy  to  receive  something  that 
no  mortal  man  can  receive  except 
through  the  spirit  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  the  Lord  has  shown 
me  things  and  made  me  to  understand 
them  as  clearly  as  the  sun  at  noon- 
day in  regard  to  what  shall  be  the  out- 
come of  those  Latter-day  Saints  thut 
are  faithful  to  their  callings.  Jasus 
says: 

"He  that  receiveth  me  receiveth.  my 
Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father, 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom,  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him." 

This  is  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  Now,  if  it  were  in  the  New 
Testament  some  people,  though  they 
might  not  understand  it,  would  pass 
it  as  being  true,  because  it  was  in 
the  Bible.  Weil,  I  am  just  as  sure  of 
its  truth  as  if  it  were  found  in  the 
New  Testament.  And  the  New  Testa- 
ment bears  us  out  in  this  doctrine. 
Jesus  said,  as  recorded  in  the  Revela- 
tion of  St.  John: 

"To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant 
to  sit  with  me  on  my  throne,  even  as 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


63 


I    also    overcame,  and    am  sat  down 
with  my  Father  in  his  throne." 

There  are  many  Scriptures  bearing 
upon  this  point.    I  believe  in  this.  I 
believe    that    we    are    the    sons  and 
daughters    of    God,  and  that  He  has 
bestowed  upon  us  the  capacity  for  in- 
finite wisdom  and  knowledge,  because 
He  has  given  us  a  portion  of  Himself, 
we  are  told  that  we  were  made  in  His 
own  image,  and  we  find  that  there  is 
a  character  of  immortality  in  the  soul 
of  man.    There  is  a  spiritual  organism 
within  this  tabernacle,  and  that  spirit- 
ual organism  has  a  divinity  in  itself, 
though  perhaps  in  an  infantile  state; 
but  it  has  within  itself  the  capability 
of  improving  and  advancing,  as  the 
infant  that  receives  sustenance  from 
its  mother.    Though  the  infant  may 
be  very  ignorant,  yet  there  are  possi- 
bilities in  it  that  by  passing  through 
the  various    ordeals    of    childhood  to 
maturity  enable  it  to  rise  to  a  superi- 
ority   that    is    perfectly  marvellous, 
compared  with  its  infantile  ignorance. 
Why  and  how    is    it   that   this   is  ac- 
complished?   Because  it  possesses  the 
susceptibilities  and  the  capabilities  of 
its  father.    So  in  regard  to  ourselves. 
There   is   a   divinity  within  ourselves 
that  is  immortal  and  never  dies.  Thou- 
sands and  thousands  of  years  hence 
we  will  be  ourselves,  and  nobody  else, 
so    far    as  our    individuality  is  con- 
cerned.     That    never    dies    from  all 
eternity  to  all  eternity.  Immortality 
never  dies,   and  it  is  immortal.  We 
are  as  children  growing  and  increas- 
ing in  knowledge  and  wisdom.  Some 
men  we  read  of,  like  Elijah,  Elisha, 
Samuel,  or  Moses,  great  prophets,  ad- 
vanced themselves  to  that  degree  of 
knowledge,  and  develop  their  immor- 
tal possibilities  to  an  extent  that  is 
perfectly  astonishing.    And  you  and  I 
will  have  to  advance  in  this  line  until 
we  control  those  things  that  the  world 
cannot  possibly  do. 

As  I  read  here,  there  was  one  thing 
that  the  disciples  of  the  Savior  did  not 
accomplish — they  did  not  succeed  in 
establishing  that  union  of  spirit  and 
feeling  that  they  ought  to  have  had, 
and  the  Lord  chastened  them  for  it. 
The  Lord  requires,  that  men  should 
forgive  one  another,  even  seventy  times 
seven.  And  even  if  the  party  does  not 
ask  forgiveness,  we  are  to  forgive  for 
a  certain  number  of  times.    He  that 


forgives  not  his  brother,  we  are  told, 
there  remaineth   in   him   the  greater- 
sin— that  is,  he  is  a  greater  sinner  than 
the  person   that  offended   him.  The 
Lord  requires  us  to  love  our  neighbor 
as  we  do  ourselves— a  pretty  difficult 
matter     under   many  circumstances; 
but  we  will  have  to  reach  that  point 
of  perfection,  and  we  will  reach  it. 
Moses,  through  the  divinity  that  was 
always  with  him,  did  some  extraor- 
dinary   things.     The  people  of  Israel 
had  abused   him  in   every  condition. 
They  continually  went  contrary  to  his 
counsel,  and  on  a  certain  occasion  they 
appointed  a  captain  to  take  them  back 
into    Egyptian    bondage.     It  was  as 
much  as  he  could  possibly  bear  to  put 
up  with  their  indignities.    Finally  the 
Lord  became  angry,  His  patience  be- 
came exhausted,  and  He  made  up  His 
mind    that    He    would  destroy  every 
one  of  them,  except  Moses,  and  He 
would  take  him  and  make  him  what 
he    proposed    to    do    with    Israel — a 
mighty  nation.    There  are  very  few  in 
these  days  but  would  have  jumped  at 
that  opportunity,  to  become  as  it  were 
the  starter  of  a  new  world,  of  a  mighty 
and    an    everlasting    kingdom.  That 
was  proposed  to  Moses  by  the  Lord. 
Well,  Moses  had  educated  himself  by 
the  spirit  of  God  that  he  was  able  to- 
act  in  that  way  that  he  might  save 
the  house  of  Israel  on  that  very  ex- 
traordinary occasion.    He  called  upon 
th->  Lord  with  mighty  faith,  and  con- 
versed with  Him.    He  tried  to  explain 
to  Him  that  it  was  not  a  good  proposi- 
tion at  the  least.   He  argued  with  Him 
as  one  man  argues  with  another.  How 
was  he  capable  of  doing  this?  Why, 
he  had  seen  God  face  to  face,  as  some 
men    have    seen    Him  in  these  latter 
days,  and  he  knew  that  he  could  rea- 
son and  talk  with  Him.    He  told  the 
Lord  that    if    He    did  what  He  pro- 
posed— destroy      Israel — the  nations 
around  would  say  that  He  had  under- 
taken a  task  that  He  could  not  suc- 
ceed in  accomplishing.    Well,  the  Lord 
changed   His  mind,  so  it  reads,  and 
did  not  that  which  He  had  intended 
to  do.    Now,  whether  the  Lord  had  a 
disposition  in  this  matter  to  try  Moses, 
may  be  a  question;   but  the  distinct 
understanding  with  Moses  was  that  if 
He    did    not  plead  with  the  Lord  all 
Israel  would  be  destroyed.    It  was  the 
divinity  within  Moses,  brought  up  to 


64 


G&NERAL  conference. 


such  a  high  point,  that  enabled  him 
to  do  this.  There  was  a  divinity  with- 
in Abraham  also.  No  mortal  man 
could  have  done  what  Abraham  did — 
taking  up  on  Mount  Moriah  his  only 
son  as  a  sacrifice — except  he  were  in- 
spired and  had  a  divinity  within  him 
to  receive  that  inspiration.  We  read 
of  these  extraordinary  manifestations 
in  the  lives  of  the  prophets.  We  find 
men  at  the  present  day  that  never 
could  have  done  what  they  have  done, 
never  could  have  made  the  sacrifices 
they  have,  unless  there  had  been  a 
receiving  and  comprehending  of  the 
language  of  divinity — the  Spirit. 

As  to  our  receiving  these  wonderful 
things  about  which  I  have  read  to  you, 
I  am  just  as  sure  of  it  as  I  am  that 
I  am  talking  to  you  today.  Although 
it  seems  marvelous,  it  is  here  so  stat- 
ed, and  I  know  the  Lord  tells  that 
which  is  true.  When  He  gives  com- 
fort to  His  Saints  in  His  promises, 
those  promises  when  fulfilled  are  vast- 
ly greater  than  the  words  seem  to  have 
indicated.  President  Woodruff  could 
not  have  gone  through  the  scenes  that 
he  has,  and  come  out  alive  as  He  has, 
unless  there  had  been  a  divinity  within 
him — a  part  of  God  himself — receiving 
and  understanding  that  divine  Spirit 
that  came  to  him  and  enabling  him  to 
accomplish  what  he  has.  Other  men 
might  be  mentioned  in  the  same  way. 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  with  whom 
I  was  intimately  acquainted  for  years, 
as  well  as  I  was  with  my  brother,  I 
know  him  to  have  been  a  man  of  in- 
tegrity, a  man  devoted  to  the  interests 
of  humanity  and  to  the  requirements 
of  God  all  the  days  in  which  he  was 
permitted  to  live.  There  never  was  a 
man  that  possessed  a  higher  degree 
of  integrity  and  more  devotedness  to 
the  interest  of  mankind  than  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  can  say  this 
from  a  personal  acquaintance  with 
him. 

Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  had  a 
lovely  Conference,  and  the  weather  has 
been  very  beautiful.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  us  abundantly.  Here  we  are, 
gathered  from  many  of  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  it  has  been  a  most 
marvelous  accomplishment.  God  alone 
could  have  accomplished  it.  And  the 
prospects  before  us  are  grand  and 
glorious.    The  time  is  speedily  coming 


— we  do  not  want  to  talk  very  much, 
though,  about  going  to  Jackson  Coun- 
ty, Missouri,  because  through  our 
foolishness  and  weakness  we  would 
not  care  anything  about  building 
houses  and  making  ourselves  com- 
fortable here.  I  know  when  we  first 
started  a  colony  in  Brigham  City,  the 
people  generally  thought  it  was  non- 
sense, perfectly  useless,  to  plant  peach 
trees,  apple  trees,  currant  bushes  and 
the  like,  because  we  were  going  to 
Jackson  County  so  speedily;  and  it 
was  with  the  utmost  effort  that  we 
were  enabled  to  disabuse  them  of  this 
idea.  We  are  not  going  tomorrow,  nor 
next  day,  this  week  or  next  week;  but 
we  are  going,  and  there  are  many — 
hundreds  and  hundreds  within  the 
sound  of  my  voice  that  will  live  to  go 
back  to  Jackson  County  and  build  a 
holy  temple  to  the  Lord  our  God.  Be 
prepared  to  do  these  things  that  have 
been  taught  us  during  this  Confer- 
ence, and  make  ourselves  worthy,  and 
we  will  receive  everything  that  I  have 
read  to  you  in  this  section.  We  have 
not  time  to  explain  these  things.  We 
bear  our  testimony  in  regard  to  what 
we  know,  and  what  God  has  done  for 
us,  and  what  we  hope  to  do  with  His 
assistance,  and  leave  it  in  that  way. 

God  bless  you,  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  love  to  serve  you,  and  to  do  every- 
thing that  the  Lord  enables  us  to  do, 
because  we  expect  to  be  together  in 
the  other  life,  from  all  eternity  to  all 
eternity.  May  God  help  us,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

At  the  conclusion  of  President  Snow's 
discourse  the  choir  sang: 

O,  my  Father  Thou  that  dwellest, 

In  the  high  and  glorious  place! 
When  shall  I  regain  Thy  presence, 

And  again  behold  Thy  face? 
In  Thy  holy  habitation 

Did  my  spirit  once  reside; 
In  my  first  primeval  childhood 

Was  I  nurtured  near  Thy  side? 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
The  oath  and  covenant  of  the  Priesthood— The 
promise  to  those  who  abide  conditions— The 
fate  of  those  who  whdllyrenounce  them— The  house 
of  God  a  house  of  order— His  will  as  conveyed 
through  His  servants  should  be  obeyed— Anony- 
mous false  accusers. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  the 
faiith,  the  goodwill  and  the  prayers  of 
my  hearers,  that   I   may   be   able  to 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


65 


speak  the  truth,  and  that  the  Lord  may 
give  me  a  knowledge  of  His  will,  that 
what  I  say  may  be  in  accordance 
therewith  and  for  the  benefit  of  all  of 
us.  If  I  should  fall  to  speak  toward 
that  pillar  in  front,  I  ask  my  brethren 
behind  me  to  call  me  to  order;  for  it  is 
one  of  my  failings  to  turn  to  the  right 
and  to  the  left  when  I  am  speaking. 
Not  that  I  am  disobedient  in  my  spirit, 
but  I  do  not  bear  in  mind  always  that 
which  is  for  the  best  good. 

I  will  take  the  liberty  of  re-reading  a 
portion  of  the  Scripture  that  was  read 
this  morning  by  President  Lorenzo 
Snow;  not  that  I  expect  to  throw  any 
additional  light  upon  the  subject,  but 
may  perhaps  continue  it  to  some  little 
extertt: 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining of  these  two  Priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnify- 
ing their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the 
Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their 
bodies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and 
the  Church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect 
of  God; 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father, 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him; 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
Priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cov- 
enant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved; 

"But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant, 
after  he  hath  received  it,  and  alto- 
gether turneth  therefrom,  shall  not 
have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world 
nor  in  the  world  to  come." 

This  makes  a  very  serious  matter  of 
receiving  this  covenant  and  this  Priest- 
hood; for  those  who  receive  it  must, 
like  God  himself,  abide  in  it,  and  must 
not  fail,  and  must  not  be  moved  out  of 
the  way;  for  those  who  receive  this 
oath  and  covenant  and  turn  away  from 


it,  and  cease  to  do  righteously  and  to 
honor  this  covenant,  and  will  to  abide 
in  sin,  and  repent  not,  there  is  no  for- 
giveness for  them  either  In  this  life  or 
in  the  world  to  come.  That  is  the  lan- 
guage of  this  book,  and  this  is  doctrine 
and  truth  which  was  revealed  from 
God  to  men  through  the  instrumental- 
ity of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet.  And 
this  word  is  reliable.  It  is  God's  word, 
and  God's  word  is  truth;  and  it  be- 
comes necessary  for  all  those  who  en- 
ter into  this  covenant  to  understand 
this  word,  that  they  may  indeed  abide 
in  it,  and  may  not  be  turned  out  of  the 
way. 

In  connection  with  this  Scripture 
which  I  have  read, I  will  take  the  liberty 
of  reading  a  little  more,  upon  a  similar 
subject,  from  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
And  while  these  words  which  I  shall 
now  read  were  the  words  of  a  Prophet 
who  lived  anciently  upon  this  continent, 
and  were  given  before  the  coming  of 
Christ  in  the  flesh,  and  before  the  Gos- 
pel was  established  in  its  fullness,  with 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  in  the  earth,  yet 
it  relates  to  the  same  oath  and  cove- 
nant that  is  spoken  of  in  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  when 
king  Benjamin  had  thus  spoken  to  his 
people,  he  sent  among  them,  desiring  to 
know  of  his  people,  if  they  believed  the 
words  which  he  had  spoken  unto  them. 

"And  they  all  cried  with  one  voice, 
saying.  Tea,  we  believe  all  the  words 
which  thou  hast  spoken  unto  us;  and 
also,  we  know  of  their  surety  and 
truth,  because  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  Omnipotent,  which  has  wrought 
a  mighty  change  in  us,  or  in  our  hearts 
that  we  have  no  more  disposition  to  do 
evil,  but  to  do  good  continually." 

What  a  glorious  condition  was  this! 
a  condition  in  which  the  Lord  God  Om- 
nipotent, by  the  power  of  His  Spirit, 
had  wrought  a  mighty  change  in  the 
hearts  of  that  people,  that  they  no 
longer  had  any  desire  to  do  evil,  but 
were  filled  only  with  a  fervent  desire 
to  do  that  which  was  good.  This  was 
indeed  a  great  change,  and  yet  it  is 
precisely  that  change  that  comes  today 
to  every  son  and  daughter  of  God  who 
repents  of  his  or  her  sins,  who  humble 
themselves  before  the  Lord,  and  who 
seek  forgiveness  and  remission  of  sin  by 
baptism  by  immersion,  by  one  having 
anthority  to  administer  this  sacred  or- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


dinance  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
For  it  lis  this  new  birth  that  was  spoken 
of  by  Christ  to  Nicodemus  as  absolute- 
ly essential  that  men  might  see  the 
Kingdom  of  God,  and  without  which 
no  man  could  enter  into  the  Kingdom. 
Each  of  us  can  remember,  perhaps,  the 
change  that  came  into  our  hearts  when 
we  were  baptized  for  the  remission  of 
our  sins.  Perhaps  it  is  not  proper  for 
one  to  speak  of  himself  or  of  his  own 
experiences,  because  there  may  be  those 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice  who  ob- 
ject to  a  man  speaking  of  himself,  and 
especially  when  he  shall  say  any  good 
of  himself;  yet  I  speak  not  of  myself, 
I  speak  of  the  influence  and  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  that  I  experienced 
when  I  had  been  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  my  sins.  The  feeling  that  came 
upon  me  was  that  ot  pure  peace,  or 
love  and  of  light.  I  felt  in  my  soul 
that  if  I  had  sinned — and  surely  I  was 
not  without  sin — that  it  had  been  for- 
given me;  that  I  was  indeed  cleansed 
from  sin;  my  heart  was  touched  and 
I  felt  that  T  would  not  injure  the  small- 
est insect  beneath  my  feet.  I  felt  as 
though  I  wanted  to  do  good  every- 
where to  everybody  and  to  everything. 
I  felt  a  newness  of  life,  a  newness 
of  desire  to  do  that  which  was 
right.  There  was  not  one  particle 
of  desire  for  evil  left  in  my  soul.  I 
was  but  a  little  boy,  it  is  true,  when  I 
was  baptized;  but  this  was  the  influ- 
ence that  came  upon  me,  and  I  know 
that  it  was  from  God,  and  was  and 
ever  has  been  a  living  witness  to  me 
of  my  acceptance  of  the  Lord. 

Oh!  that  I  could  have  kept  that  same 
spirit  and  that  same  earnest  desire  in 
my  heart  every  moment  of  my  life 
from  that  day  to  this.  Yet  many  of 
us  who  have  received  that  witness, 
that  new  birth,  that  change  of  heart, 
while  we  may  have  erred  in  judgment 
or  have  made  many  mistakes,  and 
often  perhaps  come  short  of  the  true 
standard  in  our  lives,  we  have  re- 
pented of  the  evil,  and  we  have  sought 
from  time  to  time  forgiveness  at  the 
hand  of  the  Lord;  so  that  until  this 
day  the  same  desire  and  purpose  which 
pervaded  our  souls  when  we  were  bap- 
tized and  received  a  remission  of  our 
sins  still  holds  possession  of  our  hearts, 
and  is  still  the  ruling  sentiment  and 
passion  of  our  souls.  Though  we  may 
at  times  be  stirred  to  anger,  and  our 


wrath  move  us  to  say  and  do  things 
which  are  not  pleasing  in  the  sight 
of  God,  yet  instantly,  on  regaining 
our  sober  senses  and  recovering  from 
our  lapse  into  the  power  of  darkness, 
we  feel  humble,  repentant,  and  to  ask 
forgiveness  for  the  wrong  that  we 
have  done  to  ourselves,  and  perchance 
to  others.  The  great,  earnest,  over- 
whelming desire,  which  is  born  of 
the  truth  and  of  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple who  obey  the  truth,  assumes  sway 
and  again  takes  possession  of  our 
souls,  to  lead  us  on  in  the  path  of 
duty.  This  is  my  testimony,  and  1 
know  it  is  true. 

"And  we,  ourselves,  also,  through 
the  infinite  goodness  of  God,  and  the 
manifestations  of  His  Spirit,  have 
great  views  of  that  which  is  to  come; 
and  were  it  expedient,  we  could  proph- 
esy of  all  things. 

"And  it  is  the  faith  which  we  have 
had  on  the  things  which  our  king  has 
spoken  unto  us,  that  has  brought  ut> 
to  this  great  knowledge,  whereby  we 
do  rejoice  with  such  exceeding  great 
joy."  [Mosiah,  Book  of  Mormon,  chap. 
5,  vs.  3  and  4.] 

Here  now  in  the  following  words  is 
what  I  wish  to  call  your  attention  to, 
it  being  especially  in  harmony  with  the 
reference  I  have  read  from  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  in  relation  to  the 
oath  and  covenant  of  the  everlasting 
Priesthood: 

"And  we  are  willing  to  enter  into  a 
covenant  with  our  God  to  do  His  will, 
and  to  be  obedient  to  His  command- 
ments in  all  things,  that  He  shall  com- 
mand us,  all  the  remainder  of  our 
days,  that  we  may  not  bring  upon 
ourselves  a  never  ending  torment,  as 
has  been  spoken  by  the  angel,  that  we 
may  not  drink  out  of  the  cup  of  the 
wrath  of  God. 

"And  now,  these  are  the  words  which 
King  Benjamin  desired  of  them;  and 
therefore  he  said  unto  them,  Ye  have 
spoken  the  words  that  I  desired;  and 
the'  covenant  which  ye  have  made  is 
a  righteous  covenant."  [Mosiah,  chap. 
5,  vs.  5  and  6.] 

Surely,  it  is  a  righteous  covenant. 
It  could  not  be  other  than  a  righteous 
covenant;  for  the  covenant  was  with 
God,  to  do  His  will,  to  be  obedient  to 
His  commandments  in  all  things  all 
the    remainder    of   their    days.  Cer- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  I  SMITH. 


67 


tainly  this  is  good;  this  is  a  proper 
covenant  to  make  on  the  part  of  falli- 
ble man,  and  it  is  an  eternal  covenant, 
entered  into  with  that  Eternal  God 
who  deals  with  His  children  not  as 
temporal  or  mortal  beings,  who  appear 
to  live  but  a  short  span  in  the  earth 
and  then  pass  away,  but  who  deals 
with  reference  to  the  immortality  of 
their  being.  There  is  nothing  that  God 
has  done  for  the  children  of  men  that 
is  solely  of  a  temporal  character.  He 
deals  with  us  with  a  view  to  our  eter- 
nal being,  our  immortality;  with  refer- 
ence to  the  fact  that  we  are  His  chil- 
dren, or  ought  to  be,  and  will  be  when 
we  enter  into  this  covenant  and  ob- 
tain the  change  of  heart  which  enter- 
ing into  this  covenant  is  sure  to  bring 
to  the  honest  in  heart. 

"And  now,  because  of  the  covenant 
which  ye  have  made,  ye  shall  be  called 
the  children  of  Christ,  His  sons,  and 
His  daughters;  for  behold,  this  day 
He  hath  spiritually  begotten  you;  for 
ye  say  that  your  hearts  are  changed 
through  faith  in  His  name;  therefore, 
ye  are  born  of  Him,  and  have  become 
His  sons  and  His  daughters. 

"And  under  this  head,  ye  are  made 
free,  and  there  is  no  other  head  where- 
by ye  can  be  made  free.  There  is  no 
other  name  given  whereby  salvation 
cometh;  therefore,  I  would  that  ye 
should  take  upon  you  the  name  of 
Christ,  all  you  that  have  entered  into 
the  covenant  with  God,  that  ye  should 
be  obedient  unto  the  end  of  your  lives. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  who- 
soever doeth  this,  shall  be  found  at 
the  right  hand  of  God,  for  he  shall 
know  the  name  by  which  he  is  called; 
for  he  shall  be  called  by  the  name  ot 
Christ."  [Mosiah,  5th  chap.  vs.  7,  8 
and  9.] 

Think  of  that!  Who  understands 
its  import,  the  scope  of  its  meaning? 
"Ye  shall  be  called  by  the  name  of 
Christ." 

"And  now  it  shall  come  to  pass, 
that  whosoever  shall  not  take  upon 
them  the  name  of  Christ,  must  be 
called  by  some  other  name;  therefore, 
he  findeth  himself  on  the  left  hand  of 
God. 

"And  I  would  that  ye  should  re- 
member also,  that  this  is  the  name 
that  I  said  I  should  give  unto  you  that 
never  should  be  blotted  out,  except  it 


be  through  transgression;  therefore, 
take  heed  that  ye  do  not  transgress, 
that  the  name  be  not  blotted  out  of 
your  hearts."  [vs.  10  and  11.] 

In  other  words,  as  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  has  it: 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  It  be  moved; 

"But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant, 
after  he  hath  received  it,  and  alto- 
gether turneth  therefrom,  shall  not 
have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world 
nor  in  the  world  to  come." 

I  wish  to  admonish  this  vast  con- 
course of  people  to  take  this  great 
truth  to  their  hearts.  Let  it  take  pos- 
session of  your  minds,  think  upon  it, 
consider  well  your  standing,  and  your 
continuance  in  repentance  and  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  and  in  the  love  of 
truth,  and  in  the  earnest  desire  to  do 
right  and  forsake  all  evil.  Consider 
yourselves  and  see  whether  you  have 
transgressed  this  great  covenant  into 
which  you  have  entered,  because  if 
you  have  and  you  do  not  repent  of  it, 
but  continue  in  disobedience  to  this 
covenant,  and  choose  to  remain  in  sin, 
then,  as  God  lives,  and  as  He  has 
spoken  in  His  word,  there  is  no  for- 
giveness for  you  in  this  world  nor  in 
the  world  to  come.  If  God's  word  Is 
true  at  all,  then  this  is  true;  and  it 
applies  to  such  of  us  as  have  entered 
into  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant, 
having  been  born  again,  or  spiritually 
begotten  of  Christ,  and  having  be- 
come the  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 

I  continue  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon : 

"I  say  unto  you,  I  would  that  ye 
should  remember  to  retain  the  name 
written  always  in  your  hearts,  that  ye 
are  not  found  on  the  left  hand  of  God, 
but  that  ye  hear  and  know  the  voice 
by  which  ye  shall  be  called,  and  also, 
the  name  by  which  He  shall  call  you; 

"For  how  knoweth  a  man  the  mas- 
ter whom  he  has  not  served,  and  who 
is  a  stranger  unto  him,  and  is  far  from 
the  thoughts  and  intents  of  his  heart? 

'And  again:  Doth  a  man  take  an 
ass  which  belongeth  to  his  neighbor, 
and  keep  him?  I  say  unto  you,  Nay; 
he  will  not  even  suffer  that  he  shall 
feed  among  his  flocks,  but  will  drive 
him  away,  and  cast  him  out.    I  say 


68 


GENERAL  CO  NFERENCE. 


untn  you,  even  so  .shall  It  be  among 
you,  if  ye  know  not  the  name  by  which 
ye  are  called. 

"Therefore,  I  would  that  ye  should 
be  steadfast  and  Immovable,  always 
abounding  in  good  works,  that  Christ, 
the  Lord  God  Omnipotent,  may  seal 
you  his,  that  you  may  be  brought  to 
heaven,  that  ye  may  have  everlasting 
salvation  and  eternal  life,  through 
the  wisdom,  the  power,  and  Justice, 
and  mercy  of  Him,  wno  created  all 
things,  in  heaven  and  in  earth,  who  is 
God  above  all.  Amen."  [Book  of  Mor- 
mon, Mosiah,  5th  chap.  12  to  15  vs.] 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  this  kind  of 
instruction    contained    within    the  lids 
of  this  sacred  book,  which  it  would  be 
well  for  us  as  believers  in  Christ,  as 
sons  and  daughters  of  God,  having 
been   spiritually     begotten     by  Him, 
having  been  born  anew,  and  the  old 
man  of  sin  having  been  put  away,  the 
carnal,  devilish  and  sensual  desires  of 
our  human  natures  having  been  sub- 
dued or  conquered  and  banished  from 
our  souls  and  the  new     desire  for 
righteousness  and  purity  having  been 
begotten  within  us,  that  we  have  been 
redeemed   from     the     spiritual  death 
which  came  upon  our  first  parents,  and 
which  by  reason  of  the  fall  is  upon  all 
flesh    until    they    repent  of  their  sins 
and  receive  a  remission  of  them  by 
baptism,  or  by  the  new  birth — that  is, 
by  the  birth  of  the  water  and  of  the 
Spirit;  for  the  birth  of  the  Spirit  comes 
by  or  through  the  birth  of  the  water, 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  We 
are    first    required  to  be  buried  with 
Christ  in  baptism,  typical  of  His  death 
and  burial,  burying  the  "old  man"  with 
his  sensual  and  devilish  nature,  and 
rising  to  a  newness  of  life,  and  thus 
by  the  spiritual  baptism  which  follows 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands  we  be- 
come a  son  or  a  daughter  of  God,  an 
heir  of  God  and  a  joint  heir  with  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  through  this  ordinance  that 
men  are    begotten    spiritually.      It  is 
the   door   through  which   Jesus  him- 
self   passed.      He    is    the    door,  the 
light    and     the     life    of     the  word; 
and    if    anyone    enter    by  Him,  then 
shall     he     have     eternal     life;  but 
whoso  attempteth  to  get  through  in 
any  other  way  shall  be  counted  a  thief 
and  a  robber,  and  we  may  well  judge 
how  far  he  will  succeed. 


This  is  the  Gospel  that  we  have  cov- 
enanted to  obey.  We  have  entered  into 
the  bond  of  that  new  and  everlasting 
covenant  agreeng  that  we  would  obey 
the  commandments  of  God  in  all  things 
whatsoever  He  shall  command  us. 
This  is  an  everlasting  covenant 
even  unto  the  end  of  our  days.  And 
when  1b  the  end  of  our  days  ?  We  may 
think  it  has  reference  to  the  end  of 
our  mortal  life;  that  a  time  will  come 
after  we  have  finished  this  probation 
when  we  can  live  without  obedience  to 
the  commandments  of  God.  This  is  a 
great  error.  We  shall  never  see  the  day, 
in  time  nor  eternity,  when  it  will  not  be 
obligatory,  and  when  it  will  not  be  a 
pleasure  as  well  as  a  duty,  for  us  as 
His  children,  to  obey  all  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  throughout  the  end- 
less ages  of  eternity.  It  is  upon  this 
principle  that  we  keep  in  touch  with 
God,  and  remain  in  harmony  with  His 
purposes.  It  is  only  in  this  way  that 
we  can  consummate  our  mission,  and 
obtain  our  crown  and  the  gift  of  eter- 
nal lives,  which  is  the  greatest  gift  of 
God.  Can  you  imagine  any  other 
way  ? 

God  has  established  all  things  in  their 
order.  The  house  of  God  is  a  house 
of  order,  and  not  a  house  of  confusion. 
In  this  house,  God  himself  is  the  su- 
preme head,  and  He  must  be  obeyed. 
Christ  is  in  the  image  and  likeness  of 
His  being,  His  begotten  Son,  and  He 
stands  as  our  Saviour  and  our  God. 
We  must  walk  in  His  paths,  and  ob- 
serve His  precepts  to  do  them,  or  we 
will  be  cut  off.  Next  unto  God  and 
Christ,  in  the  earth  is  placed  one  unto 
whom  the  keys  of  power  and  the  au- 
thority of  the  Holy  Priesthood  are 
conferred,  and  unto  whom  the  right 
of  presidency  is  given.  He  is  God's 
mouthpiece  to  His  people,  in  all  things 
pertaining  to  the  building  up  of  Zion 
and  to  the  spiritual  and  temporal  sal- 
vation of  the  people.  He  is  as  God's 
vicegerent;  I  do  not  hesitate  to  an- 
nounce this  truth;  for  it  is  His  word, 
and  therefore  it  is  true.  The  people 
who  have  entered  into  covenant  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
must:  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  him 
who  is  placed  to  preside  over  them; 
and  secondarily,  to  those  who  are 
called  to  act  with  him  as  his  counsel- 
ors in  the  Holy  Priesthood.    It  takes 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  E.  SMITH. 


69 


this  council  of  three  to  constitute  the 
presiding  and  governing  authority  of 
the  Priesthood  in  the  earth.  God  the 
Father,  God  the  Son,  and  God  the  Holy 
Ghost,  constitute  the  Godhead  and  the 
matchless  governing  quorum  over  all 
the  creations  of  the  Father.  Three 
men  stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church 
on  the  earth.  Yet  there  are  those  who 
call  themselves  Saints  who  hesitate 
not  to  rise  up  in  condemnation  of  and 
to  express  words  of  hatred  and  malice 
toward  these  men  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints!  Of  course,  they 
often  do  it  clandestinely;  ashamed  of 
their  own  acts,  too  cowardly  to  at- 
tach their  names  to  their  own  writings; 
but  they  nevertheless  rise  up  against 
these  men — men  whose  only  thought 
is  to  do  good  to  all  mankind,  whose 
greatest  care  is  for  the  welfare  of  the 
people  of  the  Lord,  and  whose  constant 
endeavor  is  to  unite  them  and  cause 
them  to  labor,  each  in  his  place  and 
calling,  to  help  build  up  Zion.  They 
earnestly  desire  that  every  man  shall 
be  a  working  bee  in  "the  hive  of 
Deseret,"  in  the  house  of  God.  If  any 
man  feels  offended  at  me,  let  him 
come  to  me  like  a  man,  and  tell  me 
wherein  I  have  done  wrong,  and  thus 
give  me  a  chance  to  explain  myself.  I 
am  ashamed  of  some  people  who  pro- 
fess to  be  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have 
on  my  desk  anonymous  letters,  teem- 
ing with  a  spirit  of  violence,  hatred, 
malice  and  condemnation  toward  me, 
and  my  brethren,  especially  toward 
President  Cannon  and  myself,  for  what 
we  have  never  done,  or  thought  of 
doing  in  the  world,  condemning  us  for 
evils  that  exist  only  in  their 
own  wicked  imaginations;  for  no 
man  with  the  Spirit  of  God 
in  his  heart  will  ever  condemn 
these  men  openly,  in  secret  or  through 
anonymous  letters,  numbers  of  which 
are  sent  to  us  from  time  to  time.  Par- 
don me  for  referring  to  this  matter, 
because  it  is  perhaps  trivial;  but  I 
look  upon  the  authors  of  anonymous 
letters  as  sneaks,  as  cowards  of  the 
lowest  type,  as  among  the  meanest  of 
God's  creatures.  If  a  man  has  any 
fault  to  find  with  me,  let  him  come  to 
me;  or  if  he  has  any  fault  to  find  with 
Brother  Cannon,  let  him  go  to  him. 
Let  him  pour  out  his  grievances  to  us, 
and  give  us  a  chance  to  explain  or  to 


make  reparation  if  we  have  done 
wrong;  and  let  him  not  cowardly  hide 
himself  behind  a  nom  de  plume,  or 
anonymous  letters  breathing  wrath 
and  vengeance  toward  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  and  of  the  people.  We  have 
to  reprove  sometimes  in  sharpness;  but 
if  by  reproving  we  have  wounded  them 
unnecessarily,  we  will  pour  out  a 
double  portion  of  the  balm  of  meek- 
ness, humility  and  love  toward  them, 
that  we  may  heal  the  wounds  we  have 
made,  just  as  the  Prophet  has  said  in 
the  121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.    Read  it  for  yourselves. 

Now,  these  thoughts  have  simply 
come  to  me  on  the  spur  of  the  mo- 
ment. They  may  have  been  unneces- 
sary altogether.  But  I  feel  Justified, 
so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  in  making 
these  remarks.  If  these  threatening 
letters  were  from  backsliders  or  an- 
tagonistic Gentiles,  we  would  not  be 
surprised;  but  when  they  come  signed 
"Your  brother  in  the  Gospel"  we  sup- 
pose, though  of  course  we  do  not  know, 
that  they  come  from  men  who  profess 
to  be  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  other  day  I  spoke  of  counsel 
that  was  often  given  to  some  of  our 
poor  brethren  who  were  seeking  work; 
among  other  things,  that  they  should 
go  out  into  the  new  parts  of  the  coun- 
try and  take  up  land,  cultivate  the  soil, 
and  build  themselves  up  among  begin- 
ners in  new  settlements,  and  thereby 
establish  homes  for  themselves.  I 
have  been  told  that  I  had  better  try 
the  medicine  myself.  Now,  I  want  to 
tell  those  who  do  not  know  it  that  I 
have  tried  that  very  medicine.  The 
first  plow  that  I  plowed  with  in  this 
valley  was  made  from  wagon  tires. 
We  did  not  have  any  plows  from  the 
East.  It  was  all  we  could  do  to  bring 
ourselves  into  this  valley  with  suffi- 
cient to  keep  soul  and  body  together 
when  I  came  here  in  1848.  We  then  fed 
on  close  rations  until  the  Lord  gave 
us  the  fruits  of  our  labors  from  the 
soil.  I  know  what  it  is  to  go  out  on 
to  the  deserts  and  break  up  the  bar- 
ren ground,  and  then  go  to  the  creeks 
and  make  ditches  to  convey  the  water 
from  their  natural  channels  upon  the 
soil.  I  know  what  it  is  to  earn  my 
living  by  the  sweat  of  my  brow.  1 
have  done  it  before;  and  if  the  Lord 
wills,  and  will  give  me  strength  to  do 
it,  I  can  do  it  again.    I  am  not  above 


7o 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


(loin*  it,  if  the  Lord  requires  it.  1 
believe  there  is  no  labor  on  earth  more 
essential  to  the  wellbelng  of  a  com- 
munity or  more  honorable  than  the 
labor  which  Is  necessary  to  produce 
food  from  mother  earth.  It  is  one  of 
the  most  noble  occupations.  And  next 
to  it  is  the  tending  of  the  flocks  of 
sheep  and  cattle.  This  fs  another 
noble,  occupation,  if  it  is  only  carried 
on  properly  and  righteously.  These 
are  the  foundation  of  the  prosperity 
of  every  community  in  the  world. 
When  the  farming  community  is  pros- 
perous, when  the  Lord  blesses  the 
earth  and  makes  it  fruitful,  then  the 
blacksmith,  the  carpenter,  and  those 
who  follow  other  pursuits,  will  also  be 
prosperous.  But  when  the  earth  re- 
fuses to  yield  of  its  strength  for  the 
good  of  mankind,  then  all  other  busi- 
ness is  stagnant  and  will  languish. 
Therefore,  let  us  till  the  earth;  let  us 
cultivate  the  soil;  let  us  produce  our 
own  living  out  of  the  earth,  by  the 
blessing  of  God,  as  far  as  we  possibly 
can,  always  keeping  in  mind  that  we 
have  entered  into  a  solemn  covenant 
with  God,  which  is  an  eternal  cove- 
nant, and  from  which  He  cannot  de- 
part or  be  moved,  and  which  we  can 
only  fail  in  by  ourselves  transgressing 
that  new  and  everlasting  covenant 
and  turning  away  from  it. 

God  help  us  to  be  true  and  faithful 
to  our  calling  and  standing  in  His 
Church,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Though  in  the  outward  church  below 
The  wheat  and  tares  together  grow, 
Jesus  e're  long  will  weed  the  crop, 
And  pluck  the  tares,  in  anger,  up. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Tay- 
lor. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

Assembly  hall,  2  p.  m. 

As  the  great  Tabernacle  was  not 
near  large  enough  to  accomodate  the 
people,  an  overflow  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  choir  singing  the  hymn  which 
begins 

Great  God,  attend  while  Zion  sings. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Willard 
Done. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn, 

God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 
His  wonders  to  perform. 


ELDER  DAVID  H.  CANNON. 

I  trust  that  while  I  shall  endeavor 
to  address  you,  I  may  have  the  benefit 
of  your  faith,  that  our  Father  may  sug- 
gest words  to  my  mind  that  will  be 
beneficial  to  those  who  are  here  as* 
sc-mbled 

I  have  re  joiced  very  much  in  the  tes- 
timony of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  was 
manifest  through  the  Prophets  and 
Apostles  of  God  who  have  addressed 
us  during  the  " t  rious  meetings  of  this 
Conference.  And  I  feel  that,  so  far, 
it  has  been  t<>  me  one  of  the  best  Con- 
ferences that  it  has  been  my  privilege 
to  attend,  because  of  the  plain  manner 
in  which  our  duties  have  been  made 
manifest  to  us  as  a  people.  And  1 
felt,  when  listening  to  our  venerable 
President  Woodruff  in  his  testimony 
regarding  the  financial  condition  of 
this  Church,  that  I  would  not  only  my- 
self endeavor  to  do  my  duty  and  pay 
my  tithes  and  offerings,  but  that  1 
would  use  my  influence  with  those 
whom  I  associate  with  in  the  Stake 
where  my  labor  calls  me,  to  get  others 
to  do  likewise.  For  I  believe  it  to  be 
a  veritable  truth  that  if  we  as  a  people 
would  draw  near  unto  the  Lord  and 
observe  the  commandments  that  He 
has  given  to  us  more  strictly,  greater- 
prosperity  would  attend  our  efforts, 
and  we  would  become  free  from  the 
thraldom  of  debt  with  which  we  are 
ait  the  present  time  oppressed. 

I  am  satisfied  that  this  work  with 
which  we  have  become  identified, is  "the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation"  to  all 
who  will  render  obedience  to  its  re- 
quirements, and  that  it  is  destined  in 
the  due  time  of  the  Lord  to  revolution- 
ize the  whole  world  and  bring  man- 
kind generally  into  a  condition  when 
"every  knee  will  bow  and  every  tongue 
confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,"  to 
the  honor  and  glory  of  God  our  eternal 
Father. 

At  the  time  of  the  dedication  of 
the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  I  remember 
with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  the  prom- 
ises that  were  made  to  the  people  by 
President  Woodruff,  that  if  we  would 
go  forth  from  that  time  and  seek  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and 
conform  our  lives  to  the  requirements 
of  the  Gospel,  that  our  sins  as  a  people 
though  as  scarlet    should  become  as 


ELDER  DAVID  H.  CANNOA. 


71 


white  as  wool,  and  that  we  should  be 
free  to  serve  God,  and  have  greater 
influence  in  the  midst  of  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  that  the  persecution 
that  is  being  brought  to  bear  upon  the 
people  would  cease.  I  say  I  remember 
these  predictions  with  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure;  and  I  have  watched  with 
equal  satisfaction  the  fulfillment  of 
every  prediction  that  was  ever  made  to 
the  people. Wherever  we  have  gone  forth 
laboring  to  promote  righteousness  in 
the  earth,  God  has  blessed  our  labors, 
and  His  Spirit  has  attended  His  people 
in  their  undertakings.  His  servants 
have  gone  forth  to  the  nations  and 
have  had  influence  and  power  wher- 
ever they  have  traveled,  to  an  extent 
that  was  never  before  experienced 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church 
upon  the  earth.  And  if  the  Saints  con- 
tinue to  improve  in  their  lives,  as  a 
people,  this  Spirit  will  continue  to  in- 
crease, and  more  success  will  attend 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

I  notice  in  traveling  among  the 
Saints  and  in  our  experience  in  the 
Temple,  in  the  House  of  God,  at  St. 
George,  where  my  labors  are  more 
particularly  known,  that  there  is  a 
great  improvement  in  the  people  with 
regard  to  the  work  that  is  necessary 
for  the  redemption  of  their  kindred 
dead.  Many  more  people  are  coming 
to  the  House  of  the  Lord.  Many  there 
are  that  are  desirous  of  obtaining  their 
genealogical  records,  that  they  may  be 
able  to  perform  the  work  necessary 
for  the  redemption  of  their  kindred 
dead.  The  spirit  of  this  labor,  I  be- 
lieve, is  increasing  throughout  the 
Stakes  of  Zion,  as  also  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  And,  while  I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  it  is  proper  for  us  as  a  peo- 
ple to  turn  our  attention  exclusively 
to  any  one  direction,  to  carry  out  one 
branch  or  one  part  of  the  Gospel,  yet 
I  believe  that  as  a  people  we  need  to 
disturb  ourselves  a  little  in  regard  to 
this  vicarious  labor.  I  have  said  very 
many  times,  when  addressing  the  peo- 
ple, that  I  do  not  know  what  the 
Saints  would  do  if  called  from  mor- 
tality and  permitted  to  meet  their 
kindred  who  have  preceded  them  to 
the  spirit  world,  I  do  not  know  what 
excuse  they  could  offer  for  not  having 
done  more  for  the  amelioration  of  their 
condition;  because,  in  many  instances, 


these    people    have    lived  within  the 
shadow  of  the  Temple,  in  close  prox- 
imity   with    the  House  of  God.  The 
people  have   been   reminded   of  their 
tithes     and    offerings     wherein  the 
Saints  could  place  blessings  and  en- 
dowments in  the  Holy  Priesthood  in  the 
hands  of  the  kindred  dead,  and  some 
have  been  perfectly  indifferent  in  re- 
gard to  this  matter.   In  many  instances 
men  and  women  Who  have  consider- 
able of  their  genealogies  have  failed 
to  go  into  the  Temple  to  do  the  neces- 
sary work.    There  are  other  instances 
where  they  have  done  all  that  they 
could  do.    To  these  I  have  nothing  to 
say,  but  to  the  ones  that  have  failed, 
and  who  do  not  attend  to  anything  In 
this  line.   I  have  been  wondering  what 
these  would  say  if  they  should  be  sum- 
moned to  the  presence  of  their  friends 
in  the  spirit  world.    We  believe  that 
we  have  identified  ourselves  with  the 
Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.    We  be- 
lieve    that     it    is    necssary    for  a 
man     or    woman,    in    order    to  be 
eternally      saved    in    the  presence 
of  our  God,  to  go  down  into  the  water 
and  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of 
their  sins;  then  receive  the  imposition 
of  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;   and  all  that  is  necessary  to 
save  a  person  in  immortality  in  the 
Celestial  Kingdom   of   our   Father,  is 
equally  necessary  for  those  who  have 
died  without  a  knowledge  of  the  pre- 
cious principles  with  which  you  and  I 
have  become  so  familiar.    And  if  the 
Elder  who  goes  forth  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth  experiences  joy  in  meeting 
those  that  he  has  had  the  privilege 
of  conductine  into  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism, I  say  if  he    experiences    joy  at 
reaching  them,  how  much  more  joy  will 
he  experience  when  he  meets  those  indi- 
viduals into  whose  hands  he  has  placed 
keys  of  power  and  Priesthood  that  will 
enable  them  to  pass  from  their  present 
condition  into  the  presence  of  the  Fa- 
ther and  partake  of  glory  and  immor- 
tality  in   His  Celestial  Kingdom;  not 
only  going  down  into  the  waters  and 
being  baptized  for  the  individual  who 
is  unable  to  receive  this  ordinance  for 
himself  or  herself,  but  coming  up  out  of 
the  water  and  receiving  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  if  it  be  a  brother  of  suffi- 


72 


X/  A'  //.  CONFERENCE. 


cient  age,  receiving  the  Holy  Priesthood 
for  him,  and  then  all  the  other  bless- 
ings that  are  necessary  for  him  to  en- 
Joy.   I  say  that  If  an  Individual  has  joy 
In  meeting  them,  what  joy  will  they 
have  when  they  meet  the  Individual 
who      performed      all      the  ordi- 
nances that  saved  them,  doing  the  work 
for  them  vicariously.    I  cannot  think  of 
anything  that  would  be  of  greater  joy 
to  the  person  when  he  meets  his  friend 
than  this  labor  would  afford.   Then  we 
have  the  simpler  ordinances,  that  we 
term  simple  because  they  are  so  easy 
of  accomplishment,  by  which  they  can 
have  sealed  husband  and  wife  for  time 
and  all  eternity,  and  have  conferred 
upon  them  the  privilege  of  coming  forth 
in  the  morning  of  the  first  resurrection, 
clothed  with    glory,    immortality  and 
eternal    life  and  all  the  blessings  of 
Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  and  all  the 
other  blessings  that  pertain  to  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant.    Then  if  they 
have  had  children  and  the  children  have 
passed  away  without  a  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel,  they  gather  the  names  and 
do  the  work  that  is  necessary  for  them, 
and  seal  the  children  to  the  parents, 
and  this  is  the  work  that  was  spoken  of 
and  looked  forth  to,  when  the  Prophet 
Elijah  should  come  to  turn  the  hearts 
of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children. 
Now,  this  is  why  the  Latter-day  Saints 
build  temples:    They  are  calculated  to 
exalt  us  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  of 
our     God.      But     there    are  labors 
for  us  to  perform  which  should  oc- 
cupy every  moment  of  time  that  we 
have  to  spare,  going  forth  and  labor- 
ing in  whatever  capacity  we  may  be 
called  upon  to  labor.   And  as  the  Lord 
blesses  our  labors,  we  should  take  a 
tenth  of  that  which  we  receive  and  pay 
it  to  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord;  then 
pay  our  fast  offerings,  that  there  may 
be  plenty  in  the  hands  of  the  Bishop 
to  provide  for  the  wants  of  the  poor 
in  the  ward  where  we  reside;  then  go- 
ing forth  and  performing  every  duty 
that  is  necessary  for  us  to  perform. 
If  there  is  anything  that  has  caused, 
my  heart  to  rejoice  in  my  labors  in 
connection  with  this  people,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  it  is  the  provision  that 
God  our  Father  has  made  for  the  re- 
demption of  mankind,  both  living  and 
dead,  and  the  opportunities  that  are 


afforded  the  people,  those  who  are  so 
disposed,  of  laboring  to  bring  about 
His  purposes  upon  the  earth,  assisting 
in  accomplishing  that  which  is  neces- 
sary to  firmly  establish  this  Gospel  in 
the  earth.  And  if  we  do,  as  a  people, 
all  that  is  necessary  for  us  to  do,  that 
is  in  our  power,  the  heavens  will  be 
opened  and  the  blessing  of  the  Al- 
mighty will  descend  upon  us,  prosper- 
ity will  atend  all  our  labors,  and  we 
will  have  that  peace  of  mind  and  that 
contentment  and  joy  in  contemplating 
the  great  plan  God  has  instituted  for 
the  redemption  of  the  people.  I  say 
we  will  have  such  joy  in  contemplat- 
ing these  things  that  will  make  us  so 
happy  that  we  will  never  regret  labor- 
ing for  Him  and  for  His  purposes  In 
the  earth. 

May  God  bless  you,  and  may  we  as 
a  people  ever  remember  the  import- 
ance of  the  age  in  which  we  live,  and 
not  lose  sight  of  the  signs  of  the  times 
in  which  we  live,  and  may  be  per- 
form our  duties  to  His  acceptance, 
through  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

At  the  close  of  Elder  Cannon's  re- 
marks the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  were  presented  by  Elder  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  and  sustaind  by  unan- 
imous vote. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  see  in  this 
assembly  a  large  body  of  our  Seventies, 
whom  I  am  very  glad  to  welcome  to 
our  General  Conference. 

Some  four  or  five  weeks  ago  and  also 
a  month  previous  to  that  date,  we 
published  an  invitation  for  the  Seven- 
ties to  meet  with  us  in  this  hall,  on 
Sunday,the  10th  inst.,at  2  o'clock  p.m. 
And  I  find  that  very  many  of  the 
Seventies  have  come  to  accept  of  the 
invitation,  and  are  here  this  afternoon. 

Yesterday  the  First  Presidency  ad- 
vised us  not  to  make  of  it  an  exclu- 
sively Seventies'  meeting.but  to  have  it 
an  overflow  meeting  as  usual,  for  the 
benefit  of  all  the  Saints  that  might 
wish  to  assemble.  Consequently  their 
suggestion  was  the  keynote  to  us,  and 
we  cheerfully  and  gladly  adopt  the 
counsel  they  gave  us  on  this  matter. 
But  I  believe  that  there  was  nothing 
in  their  minds  to  prevent    us  from 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


73 


saying  whatever  we  considered  neces- 
sary to  say  to  our  brethren  of  the 
Seventies  who  should  assemble  here 
today. 

Then,  by  way  of  conveying  some  of 
our  wishes  to  the  Seventies  that  are 
scattered  through  all  the  Stakes  of 
Zion,  we  wish  to  remind  you  that  we 
have  1,700  brethren,  and  nearly  all  of 
those  are  Seventies,  laboring  in  the 
ministerial  field  today  as  missionaries 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  They 
are  laboring  in  all  the  states  of 
the  Union,  they  are  also  laboring 
in  all  the  Scandinavian  countries, that 
Is,  in  Denmark,  Sweden  and  Norway, 
also  in  Germany  and  in  Holland,  or 
the  Netherlands;  also  a  small  corps  of 
missionaries  are  now  laboring  in  the 
Holy  Land,  under  the  direction  of 
Apostle  Anton  H.  Lund.  We  have 
a  large  corps  of  missionaries  in  the 
British  mission, and  upon  the  Sandwich 
Islands,  upon  the  Society  Islands,  up- 
on the  Samoan  Islands,  in  New  Zea- 
land, in  Australia  and  pretty  much  in 
all  the  civilized  world  wherever  Chris- 
tian nations  are  known,  and  wherever 
Christianity  is  preached.  "We  have 
missions  in  all  those  lands  and  islands 
of  the  seas  representing  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  hope  that  our  brethren  of  the 
Seventies  have  become  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  they,  to  a  large  extent, 
are  the  missionary  corps  of  the  Church, 
and  from  these  quorums  of  Seventies 
the  brethren  are  chosen  who  go  out 
on  missions;  or  if  they  are  chosen  from 
the  Elders'  quorums,  when  they  are 
sent  forth  they  are  ordained  Seventies, 
and  sent  with  the  Gospel  message  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth — as  minute 
men,  calling  upon  the  people  of  the 
world  to  repent  of  their  sins.  We  have 
some  very  excellent  missionaries  in 
the  field  today.  But  we  want  to  im- 
press upon  the  minds  of  our  brethren 
who  preside  over  these  quorums  and 
those  who  are  members  of  the  same, 
and  also  upon  the  minds  of  the  Elders 
the  necessity  of  us  all  preparing 
ourselves  to  be  better  missionaries  in 
the  future  than  we  have  been  able  to 
send  out  in  the  past.  We  desire  an 
improvement  all  the  time.  We  desire 
that  our  brethren  should  be  imbued 
with  the  spirit  of  improvement,  and 
that  in  every  Elder  and  Seventy  that 
is  called  out,  the  Presidency    of  the 


Church  and  the  Apostles  shall  find 
a  fit  representative  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  a  man  that  knows  the  hope 
that  is  within  him  and  can  give  a 
reason  for  that  hope  in  good,  intelli- 
gent English  language,  or  in  what- 
ever language  he  may  be  called  upon 
to  teach  the  Gospel,  and  that  will  de- 
pend upon  the  nation  or  people  to 
whom  he  is  sent.  Now,  in  connection 
with  this,  I  want  to  suggest  to  my 
Danish,  Swedish,  Norwegian  and  Ger- 
man brethren,  and  brethren  from  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  that  you  maintain 
the  gift  and  power  of  speaking  you: 
own  native  tongue  or  language  in 
your  family  circles.  And  those  who 
can  speak  German,  Danish,  Swedish, 
Norwegian  or  French  and  who  are  na- 
tives of  these  countries,  that  every  one 
will  maintain  their  native  tongue 
and  dialect,  speak  it  in  the  family  cir- 
cles and  train  their  children  to  speak 
the  same  as  well  as  the  English,  so 
that  when  they  are  called  and  sent  out 
our  young  Elders  may  be  prepared  to 
preach  and  teach  immediately,  and 
thus  gain  an  advantage  in  time,  and 
time  saved  is  expense  saved.  And 
those  Elders  who  come  from  foreign 
missions  and  who  have  been  in  the 
habit  of  speaking  foreign  languages, 
by  all  means  take  every  opportunity  to 
speak  in  those  languages  that  you  may 
maintain  the  knowledge  you  have 
gained  while  you  have  been  in  a  for- 
eign nation,  and  continue  to  be  able 
to  speak  fluently  those  different  dia- 
lects and  tongues,  that  when  you  are 
again  called  you  will  be  prepared  to 
go  immediately  into  the  field  and  labor 
as  efficient  Elders,  having  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  the  language  in  which 
you  are  called  to  teach.  We  also  wish 
our  Seventies  and  Elders  to  learn  all 
they  can,  to  make  themselves  pro- 
ficient by  attending  to  their  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  and  their 
Sunday  schools,  for  in  both  of  these 
institutions  are  to  be  found  wonderful 
facilities  for  learning  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel,  that  they  may  be  able 
to  give  a  reason  intelligently  for  the 
hopes  that  are  within  them.  As  I 
have  said  before,  mutual  improvement 
and  individual  improvement  are  the  or- 
der of  the  day. 

Now,  in  regard  to  dealing  with  mem- 
bers of  quorums  who  are  careless  or 
delinquent:  There  was  a  brother  came 


74 


<  1ENKRAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  me  today  und  presented  his  recom- 
mendation from  a  quorum  in  the  south, 
also  his  genealogy,  which  was  taken 
from  the  quorum  record,  and  he  stated 
that  he  had  been  Identified  with  no 
quorum  since  leaving  the  south,  and 
that  was  as  much  as  eight  or  ten 
years  ago.  He  said.  "I  have  been  very 
careless,  but  I  hope  the  brethren  will 
not  cast  me  off.  I  have  been  a  wan- 
derer, a  trader,  a  stock  man,  and  I 
have  been  wandering  around  all  over 
creation  and  not  attending  to  my 
duties  as  a  Seventy  during  all  that 
time:  yet  I  would  like  very  much  to  be 
received  into  a  quorum,  where  I  am 
going  to  locate,  and  I  would  not  like 
to  be  cast  out  from  the  midst  of  my 
brethren."  I  said,  "Brother,  there 
are  no  persons  that  I  have  ever  met  that 
were  too  old  to  repent  of  their  sins,  of 
their  baekslidings,  careless  ways  and 
to  turn  over  a  new  leaf,  serve  the 
Lord  and  keep  His  commandments.  If 
you  are  one  of  those  who  desire  to  do 
this  you  can  certainly  receive  the 
benefit  of  your  good  resolutions;  and 
if  you  will  prove  to  your  brethren  that 
you  are  indeed  repentant  and  that  you 
will  do  better,  they  will  have  no  desire 
to  cast  you  off."  The  Gospel  of  life 
and  salvation  is  a  Gospel  of  repent- 
ance. Jesus  truly  said,  when  Peter 
asked  Him  how  many  times  we  should 
forgive  our  erring  brother,  and  said  as 
a  suggestion,  shall  we  forgive  him 
seven  times?  Jesus  said  to  him,  not 
only  shall  you  forgive  him  seven  times, 
but  you  shall  forgive  him  seventy 
times  seven,  if  he  repent.  Now,  this 
is  a  wide  latitude,  and  I  am  not  re- 
sponsible for  it;  but  I  am  satisfied  in 
this  matter  that  it  is  a  very  great  and 
inestimable  favor  and  blessing  that 
the  Lord  has  given  unto  His  children, 
that  as  often  as  they  will  repent  and 
forsake  their  sins,  He  will  f  -rgive 
them.  We  all  need  to  repent  every 
day  of  our  lives,  and  we  all  need  Ibe 
spirit  of  repentance,  and  we  all  ought 
to  cultivate  this  spirit  r»f  forgiveness 
one  to  another.  For  the  Lord  has 
said,  "If  you  forgive  not  each  other  his 
trespasses,  the  Lord  will  not  forgive 
you  your  trespa^se-i.'  Now,  In  deal- 
ing with  scattered  and  careless  mem- 
bers of  Seventies,  we  dtsire,  as  we 
have  ir.strurt.il  nr  b  ethr^n  y  ihe 
presidency  of  these  quorums, that  these 
brethren  shall  be  labored  with,  that 


they  shall  be  sought  after,  that  they 
shall  be  earnestly  taught  with  hu- 
mility and  kindness  the  way  of  life, 
that  they  shall  be  admonished  from 
time  to  time  in  the  quorum  meetings. 
If  you  cannot  get  them  to  act  with  you, 
go  to  them  and  meet  with  them  in 
their  own  houses  and  labor  with  them 
by  their  own  firesides  in  the  spirit  of 
meekness  and  love  unfeigned,  seeking 
their  welfare  and  salvation,  and  only 
desiring  that  through  their  repentance 
they  may  be  forgiven,  and  learn  to  lay 
hold  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 

There  has  been  very  much  said  dur- 
ing this  Conference  regarding  the  way 
that  we  show  our  determination  to  be 
in  accord  with  our  brethren,  to  be  in 
unison  with  them,  to  be  united  with 
them  in  every  good  word  and  in  every 
good  work.  And  who  has  not  felt  his 
heart  or  her  heart  burn  within  his 
bosom  during  the  services  of  this  great 
Conference,  in  listening  to  the  voice  of 
our  President,  Wilford  Woodruff,  and 
hearing  his  admonitions?  He  stands 
a  living  monument  of  God's  mercy 
and  pleasure  in  preserving  his  life 
and  keeping  a  living  witness  within 
his  breast  of  the  truths  of  the  Gospel 
that  he  embraced  when  in  the  days  of 
his  youth;  always  maintaining  that 
same  living  witness  that  the  same 
light  burned  brightly,  for  it  has  never 
gone  out  of  his  heart  for  one  moment 
since  he  received  it.  See  what  a  wit- 
ness and  testimony  he  has  borne  of 
these  facts  to  the  people  during  this 
Conference.  I  say  never  for  one 
moment  has  the  light  gone  out  of  his 
heart,  and  I  do  not  think  it  has  ever 
burned  dimly;  for  the  power  of  God 
has  been  manifest  in  him  from  that 
day  and  hour  unto  the  present  time. 
See  the  watch-care  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  and  of  the  holy  angels  of  God's 
presence,  how  they  have  been  over 
that  man  and  guarded  him  and  pre- 
served him  to  do  the  work  that  he  is 
called  upon  to  do  at  this  stage  and  in 
this  age  of  the  Church.  And  so  I  be- 
lieve we  might  testify  of  those  associ- 
ated with  him — his  Counselors  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  today.  They  have 
shown  by  their  works,  labors,  teach- 
ings and  constant  endeavors  among 
the  people  to  lead,  guide,  counsel  and 
admonish  in  all  meekness  and  in  all 
humility  and  by  the  power  of  God 
manifested  to  them,  that  their  lamps 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G  KIMBALL 


75 


have  never  grown  dim,  but  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  burned  within 
their  hearts  all  the  time;  and  there  is 
burning  within  their  hearts  today  a  de- 
sire for  the  welfare  of  Israel,  a  de- 
sire for  the  gathering  of  Israel,  a  de- 
sire that  the  Gospel  may  be  preached 
in  every  land  and  that  the  chosen  seed 
of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob  may  be 
gathered  from  all  the  nations  whither 
they  have  been  scattered.  Now,  this 
is  the  course  they  are  taking.and  what 
ought  we  to  do,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  especially  my  brethren  of 
the  Seventies  and  Elders,  what  ought 
to  be  our  course  in  life?  Should  we 
not  possess  in  our  hearts  the  same 
light  and  the  same  love  of  truth  that 
they  have  evidenced,  and  should  we 
not  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
them  and  be  united  in  all  things  with 
our  brethren  who  preside  over  us, 
seeking  diligently  to  know  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  be  led  by 
that  Spirit  which  comes  from  Him  all 
the  time,  into  the  way  of  life  and 
truth,  making  our  words  and  actions 
agree  entirely?  And  when  we  testify 
that  we  have  received  the  Gospel,  that 
we  have  a  living  witness  in  our  hearts, 
should  we  not  keep  that  lamp  constant- 
ly and  brightly  burning,  that  it  may 
never  grow  dim  through  carelessness 
on  our  part? 

I  wish  to  remind  you  today,  my 
brethren  of  the  Seventies,  that  there  is 
a  very  great  necessity  for  every  one, 
every  president  and  member  of  these 
quorums  to  be  united  together  and  to  be 
ready  for  the  word  of  counsel  from  our 
file  leaders  all  the  time,  and  to  prepare 
ourselves  for  any  field  of  action  or 
labor,  or  any  duty  that  we  may  be 
called  upon  to  perform.  Let  us  re- 
member another  thing,  that  though 
we  may  be  called  upon  to  perform 
some  political  duty  or  labors  that  are 
secular  and  not  connected  with  our 
calling  as  Seventies,  this  should  not 
take  us  outside  of  the  influence  of  the 
Church  nor  of  the  brethren  who  pre- 
side over  us.  "We  should  be  subject 
to  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  to  the  law  of 
the  Gospel,  which  means  a  determina- 
tion to  carry  out  all  the  requirements 
made  of  us  and  to  perform  every  duty 
as  servants  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  feel 
that  we  are  in  duty  bound  to  so  con- 
duct our  lives  that    no  reproach  may 


come  to  us,  and  that  we  shall  not  bar 
ourselves  from  having  the  light,  even 
the  lamp  of  the  Holy  Spirit  constantly 
burning  within  our  hearts.  I  felt 
called  to  make  these  remarks,  for  I 
have  seen  with  some  sorrow,  recently, 
that  some  of  our  brethren  who  are  in 
political  positions  have  turned  a  deaf 
ear  to  the  admonitons  of  their  brethren, 
and  who  have  seemingly  put  at  de- 
fiance every  wish  or  suggestion  that 
might  be  made  to  them.  And  I  want 
to  raise  my  voice  in  admonition  to  my 
brethren  about  the  matter,  and  to  call 
the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
one  and  all,  to  the  fact  that  we  owe 
allegiance  to  our  heavenly  Father, 
and  that  between  us  and  Him  stand 
our  brethren  who  preside  over  us,  and 
that  if  we  wish  to  maintain  an  in- 
fluence with  God  and  with  the  heavens, 
we  must  subject  ourselves  to  the  coun- 
sel of  our  leaders,  and  labor  diligently 
and  faithfully  in  the  cause  of  Christ. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to 
do  good,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 

I  pray  the  Lord  that  I  may  be  wise 
in  what  I  shall  say,  and  be  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord;  for 
I  have  no  desire  to  express  my  own 
feelings. 

I  frankly  confess  that  I  am  disap- 
pointed; and  when  I  am  disappointed 
you  find  it  out,  for  it  shows  upon  the 
very  lineaments  of  my  face.  I  am  not 
like  a  brother  I  once  had — and  he  was 
the  only  one  I  ever  did  have  like  that 
— when  he  was  disappointed  and  felt 
badly,  he  could  whistle  and  sing.  1 
cannot  whistle  or  sing  when  I  feel  dis- 
appointed. 

I  have  not  learned  the  lesson  of  obe- 
dience yet,  but  I  shall  before  I  get 
through.  It  is  our  duty  when  we  are 
confronted  with  anything  that  we  do 
not  understand,  or  go  against  any  ob- 
struction, to  plow  around  it.  I  have 
always  been  accustomed  to  going  over 
it.  If  I  ran  against  a  snag  when  plow- 
ing, it  did  me  a  whole  lot  of  good  to 
see  my  team  pull,  to  test  the  plow  and 
see  how  good  it  was.  I  have  broken 
many  a  plow  and  done  considerable 
damage  by  not  plowing  around  the  ob- 
stacle. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


There  is  an  animal  that  when  It 
reaches  out  with  its  feelers  and  runs 
against  anything,  it  pulls  Its  feelers 
hack  and  crawls  Into  Its  shell,  and  I 
suppose  remains  there  and  reflects  until 
the  scene  changes. 

Now,  we  were  very  desirous  of  meet- 
ing with  the  Seventies  in  a  special  con- 
ference meeting.  We  are  not  deprived 
of  the  privilege  of  talking  to  them  as 
It  Is;  for  the  brethren  of  the  authori- 
ties have  seemingly  reconsidered  the 
previous  arrangements  we  made.  It 
was  with  their  consent,  (I  desire  that 
fully  understood  by  the  Seventies), and 
their  full  approval  that  this  notice  was 
sent  to  you  to  be  here,  at  2  p.  m.  today. 
Out  of  it  great  good  has  come,  because 
hundreds  of  Seventies  would  not  have 
been  here  had  it  n^t  been  for  the  no- 
tice. Some  have  come  long  distances 
and  they  have  been  fully  rewarded  by 
what  they  have  heard.  If  they  will 
follow  out  the  counsels  that  have  been 
given  to  them  by  the  Presidency  of  this 
Church,  and  by  the  Apostles,  they  need 
no  further  instructions  from  us,  be- 
cause when  they  return  to  their  homes 
they  will  not  neglect  their  duties  a* 
Latter-day  Saints.  You  know,  we 
should  be  like  clay  in  the  hands  of  the 
potter.  We  have  got  to  be  ground, 
moulded  and  fashioned  into  a  vessel 
of  honor.  And  a  great  many  of  us  are 
lumpy,  although  some  of  these  old 
Seventies  have  been  ground  for  sixty 
years.  It  has  taken  a  long  time  to 
grind  them,  so  that  they  will  become 
tractable  like  little  children.  It  will 
take  just  as  long,  perhaps,  to  grind  ah 
the  lumps  out  of  me,  and  other  young 
men. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  the  Gospel 
is  true.  I  can  preach  it  a  great  deal 
better  than  I  can  live  it.  Under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God  men  of- 
ten say  things  that  are  a  marvel  to 
them.  "Sudden  strokes  of  ideas"  come 
to  them  when  they  stand  upon  theii 
feet  that  they  never  thought  of  before. 
It  may  be  very  sudden  and  brief;  but 
every  man  that  has  spoken  under  that 
Spirit  knows  there  is  such  a  thing  as 
the  Holy  Ghost;  that  is,  the  Spirit  of 
inspiration  and  revelation.  That  is 
the  lesson  that  we  have  to  learn.  1 
often  think  of  our  Elders  that  you  have 
sent  out  into  the  world.  Many  of 
them  were  wayward,  careless,  and  in- 
different;   their    parents  were  unable 


to  touch  their  hearts  in  some  instances. 
They  seemed  determined  to  have  their 
own  way,  even  though  it  be  a  bad  way. 
When  a  father  or  mother  said  anything 
to  them  about  their  bad  associations, 
they  would  not  believe  it.  I  have  done 
so  myself  when  I  was  wayward,  and 
when  my  mother  counseled  me  that 
those  young  men  were  not  proper  as- 
sociates for  me,  I  could  not  believe  it. 
I  sympathize  with  a  young  man  that 
has  had  bad  companions  and  improp- 
er associates.  Yet,  when  those  young 
men  repent  of  their  sins,  and  get  a 
glimmering  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel, 
they  are  just  like  clay  in  the  hands  of 
the  potter.  And,  as  one  of  the  Apostles 
that  has  lately  visited  the  Southern 
States  stated  to  me,  that  when  he  com- 
pared what  he  saw  in  the  South  with 
what  he  had  seen  at  home,  the  South- 
ern mission  grows  bigger  and  larger 
every  day.  Yes,  and  it  will  keep  grow- 
ing larger,  too.  It  is  not  the  only 
mission  on  the  earth  either,  for  they 
are  all  growing  larger. 

Now  about  your  boys.  I  have  la- 
bored among  the  Elders  who  are  work- 
ing in  the  South  and  I  have  never  seen 
the  time  in  my  Ave  years'  experience 
there,  that  Elders  have  rebelled  against 
the  counsel  that  was  given  them.  They 
sometimes  put  their  own  interpretation 
upon  that  counsel,  but  always  acted 
to  the  best  of  their  ability.  When  a 
man  does  that,  he  does  pretty  well;  he 
is  trying  to  do  right  and  to  carry  out 
the  instructions.  I  never  had  a  diffi- 
culty in  the  South  with  an  Elder,  ex- 
cepting one.  He  told  the  people  things 
that  never  did  transpire  and  never 
will.  That  was  the  only  time  I  had 
occasion  to  say  a  harsh  word  and  to 
correct  an  Elder.  I  have  never  felt 
the  Spirit  so  manifest  at  home  as  1 
have  when  surrounded  by  our  Elders 
in  council  meetings  in  the  mission 
fields.  It  is  often  asked,  Wbat  are 
they  doing  in  the  South?  I  speak  of  it 
because  I  am  familiar  with  that  mis- 
sion. I  am  familiar  with  the  workings 
of  the  South.  There  are  few  men  as 
familiar  with  the  Southern  States  mis- 
sion as  I  am;  because  I  have  been  in 
touch  with  it  almost  constantly  for  the 
last  seven  years.  We  find  they  are 
trying  to  educate  your  five  hundred  El- 
ders to  pay  their  tithing,  and  it  is  sur- 
prising how  people  criticise  the  Presi- 
dent of  that  mission  on  that  subject. 


JO  A  A  THAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


If  some  of  the  kind  people  are  moved 
upon  by  the  Spirit  to  give  your  sons 
money,  they  pay  their  tithing,  and  it  is 
sent  to  Chattanooga.  And  you  will 
find  every  one  of  these  Elders'  names 
upon  the  tithing  records.  They  paid 
a  large  tithing  last  year.  The  Lord 
will  open  the  way  before  the  Elders. 
They  will  not  suffer  in  the  South.  They 
are  treated  like  kings.  What  is  the 
reason?  They  have  struck  the  key 
note,  and  I  hope  they  have  struck  it 
everywhere  in  the  world,  and  that  is, 
to  pray,  fast,  travel  without  purse  and 
scrip,  pay  their  tithing,  and  climb  out 
of  old  ruts.  I  heard  that  a  missionary 
committee  of  brethren  have  been  ap- 
pointed to  counsel  with  the  brethren  ot 
the  authorities,  so  that  the  European 
mission  can  be  placed  on  a  higher  plat- 
form. It  makes  my  heart  rejoice.  I 
wish  they  would  take  the  headquarters 
in  Liverpool  and  place  it  on  a  hill  some- 
where, that  it  may  be  seen.  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  move  upon  His  Elders  that 
they  may  reach  a  higher  standard  ot 
perfection.  God  intended  His  people 
to  be  progressive,  and  He  never  in- 
tended them  to  locate  themselves  in 
the  slums  of  the  world.  And  I  told 
the  Elders  laboring  in  the  South  so. 
God  does  not  ask  you  to  go  in  the 
slums  and  remain  over  night,  getting 
contagious  skin  diseases  that  are 
prevalent  in  such  places.  You  can 
visit  them,  but  I  ask  of  you  Elders, 
to  go  in  respectable  places  when  upon 
your  missions,  for  you  are  servants  ot 
God.  And  if  people  do  not  keep  them- 
selves clean  they  are  unworthy  to  have 
our  Elders  sleep  in  their  beds.  I  would 
rather  rest  in  the  woods.  Our  Elders, 
through  their  great  kindness,  have 
brought  upon  themselves  skin  diseases 
that  have  afflicted  them  for  years  and 
years,  and  the  Lord  does  not  require 
it.  The  Holy  Ghost  will  not  dwell  in 
unclean  tabernacles,  nor  in  unclean 
places. 

I  desire  to  tell  you  how  the  South 
got  out  of  trouble.  Tou  know  the  diffi- 
culties that  Elder  John  Morgan  coped 
with.  And  let  me  say  here,  that  man 
laid  a  broad  foundation,  and  no  man 
can  take  the  honor  from  him,  because 
it  is  his,  through  his  faith,  persever- 
ance and  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.  He 
worked  under  great  difficulties,  that 
very  few  men  in  this  Church  have  met 


with,  except  the  early  Apostles  and  the 
men  who  commenced  this  work.  He 
went  to  the  South  in  abject  poverty, 
and  he  made  railroad  officials  his 
friends,  and  he  built  up  a  reputation 
for  honesty  that  can  never  be  shaken. 
He  made  business  men  his  friends, 
from  which  associations  all  his  suc- 
cessors have  received  benefit.  The  Chat- 
tanooga Times,  in  1884,  when  bitterness 
was  at  its  highest  ebb,  said,  to  shake 
the  hand  of  John  Morgan  was  to  be 
his  friend.  I  was  introduced  to  a  pas- 
senger agent  at  Memphis,  Tenn.,  by 
the  general  passenger  agent  of  the  East 
Tennessee  railway,  and  he  said,  "I  can 
give  you  no  better  recommend  of  Mr.. 
Kimball  than  to  say,  if  he  applied  to 
me  for  one  thousand  railroad  tickets  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  had  no  money  with 
him  to  pay  the  same,  I  would  feel  per- 
fectly secure  in  letting  him  have  them." 
This  is  the  reputation  John  Morgan 
established  in  the  South.  His  succes- 
sors have  followed  in  his  wake. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  fully 
comprehend  the  persecution,  hardships 
and  difficulties  Elders  Morgan,  Roberts 
and  Spry  had  to  meet.  They  and  the 
Elders  laboring  under  their  direction 
were  hounded,  hunted,  whipped,  shot 
at,  and  some  were  killed.  I  stand  be- 
fore you  as  a  living  witness  of  these 
things. 

I  was  in  the  South  on  my  first  mis- 
sion in  the  year  1884,  and  it  was  the 
dark  period  in  the  life  of  the  mission. 
Hardly  a  day  passed,  that  letters  were 
not  received  at  the  office  at  Chatta- 
nooga, stating  that  Elders  had  been 
threatened,  whipped  or  surrounded  by 
mobs,  and  Elders  would  ask  if  they 
should  hold  the  fort.  All  that  could 
be  said  was  as  Jesus  had  stated, 
"When  they  persecute  you  in  one  place, 
flee  ye  to  another." 

The  Lord,  through  His  servant,  the 
Prophet  Wilford  Woodruff,  told  you 
Latter-day  Saints,  at  the  time  that 
great  Temple  [pointing  to  the  Temple) 
was  being  dedicated,  that  the  bitter- 
ness would  be  taken  out  of  the  hearts 
of  our  enemies,  and  their  hearts  would 
be  softened  towards  us. 

The  Elders  who  were  laboring  in  the 
South  at  the  time  of  the  dedication, 
and  there  were  160  of  them,  testify  that 
a  very  marked  and  radical  change  has. 
taken  place  in  their  experience,  for  the 


78 


<;/  \  AAV//,  CONFERENCE. 


wmds  of  the  Prophet  are  being  ful- 
filled. 

Some  Elders  now  laboring  In  the 
South  fancy  tli.y  arc  the  only  ones 
who  ever  traveled  without  money.  El- 
ders were  never  more  faithful,  ener- 
getic ami  persevering  than  at  present, 
yet  thousands  of  Elders  have  been  just 
as  true  and  faithful. 

I  tilled  my  first  mission,  and  thought 
money  was  an  essential,  which  to  some 
Elders  it  Is,  yet  the  only  time  I  laid 
out  in  the  woods  was  with  a  $10  bill  in 
my  pocket  and  I  thanked  the  Lord 
when  the  money  was  gone. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  cease  yout 
severe  criticisms  of  the  Presidents  or 
missions.  Stop  finding  fault,  and  re- 
frain from  troubling  Elders  about  their 
returning  home.  They  are  being  edu- 
cated in  the  Gospel,  and  being  taught 
to  obey  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  that 
seemingly  cannot  reach  their  hearts 
at  home.  And  this  rewards  them  for 
all  sacrifices.  Our  sons  are  there  be- 
ing taught  to  obey  the  law  of  tithing. 
Some  of  our  good  brethren's  names 
would  not  be  found  on  the  tithing  rec- 
ords if  their  wives  did  not  pay  tithing 
on  egers  and  butter. 

In  conclusion,  I  desire  to  state  that 
I  feel  well  and  honor  and  respect  men 
who  love  God  and  keep  His  command- 
ments; men  who  are  truthful,  honest 
and  do  not  fear  men.  I  love  great 
generals  and  leaders  like  Moses,  a  man 
who  loved  God,  and  followed  His  coun- 
sel, yet  was  not  afraid  to  express  his 
views.  The  Lord  loved  him  because 
of  his  manhood,  and  loyalty  to  Hia 
people. 

I  desire  to  say  to  you,  Seventies,  and 
the  Latter-day  Saint"  the  closer  I  get 
to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and 
Twelve  Apostles,  the  more  I  love  them, 
because  I  know  they  are  kind  men,  and 
they  love  God,  and  they  love  His  work 
and  His  people.  That  is  my  testimo- 
ny. If  you  have  feelings  against  the 
brethren,  go  to  them.  If  your  brothei- 
offends  you,  go  to  him.  Try  to  fix 
things  up  and  do  not  let  us  have  jar- 
rings  and  bitterness,  do  not  let  us  have 
apostasy  in  our  hearts.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

ELDER   MARRINER  W  MERRILL. 

I  wish  to  say  a  few  woris  in  testi- 
mony, relative  to  what  President  Sey- 


mour B.  Young  referred  to  To  my 
mind  what  he  referred  to  is  quite  an 
important  matter:  With  regard  to  the 
foreign  people,  the  Scandianvian,  Ger- 
man, French  and  every  people  who 
speak  foreign  languages,  teaching 
their  children  to  speak  the  niothir 
tongue,  to  speak  the  foreign  lmguage 
that  the  fathers  and  mothers  are  ac- 
quainted with.  In  some  instances 
where  the  mother  is  acquaintej  with 
the  foreign  language  and  ..he  father  is 
not,  or  the  father  is  acquainted  and 
the  mother  is  not,  a  great  d-;al  of  pains 
should  be  exercised  by  th  ?  parents  in 
teaching  their  children  their  language. 
We  are  sending  Elders  to  different 
parts  of  the  world;  and  a  grftat  major- 
ity of  our  Elders,  I  believe,  have  to 
learn  a  foreign  language,  if  they  ar<J 
sent  to  a  foreign  country.  This  should 
be  measurably  avoided  in  the  future, 
because  our  foreign  popularion  is  scat- 
tered all  over  the  country.  »re  have  a 
great  many  Scandinavian  and  German 
people  in  the  country  and  I  am  sorry 
to  say  that  a  good  many  of.  those  peo- 
ple who  emigrated  here  a  number  of 
years  ago  have  utterly  failed  to  teach 
their  children  their  own  language.  1 
had  occasion  a  short  time  ago  to  look 
for  some  missionaries  to  go  to  Sweden, 
Norway  and  Denmark,  and.  of  course, 
among  that  class  of  people  I  expected 
to  find  young  people  able  to  speak  their 
mother  tongue,  but  in  this  I  was  sadly 
disappointed.  I  only  found  a  very  few 
that  could  speak  their  mother  tongue. 
In  no  case  did  I  find  any  one  that  was 
reared  up  and  born  here  and  of  foreign 
parentage,  that  could  read  the  lan- 
guage. Now,  I  think  this  is  a  great 
mistake.  The  children  may  just  as 
well  learn  two  languages  as  to  only 
learn  one,  and  they  can  do  it  quite 
readily  when  they  aie  young.  I  re- 
member marrying  a  couple,  I  think  it 
is  about  thirteen  or  fourteen  years  ago; 
the  brother  was  an  American  and  the 
sister  a  Swedish  lady,  and  she  could 
talk  English  very  fluently,  as  also  the 
Swedish  language.  When  they  came 
to  get  married,  I  asked  them  if  they 
would  promise  me,  should  they  be 
blessed  with  children,  that  they  would 
teach  those  children  the  mother  tongue, 
that  is,  teach  them  the  Swedish  lan- 
guage. Of  course  the  brother  could 
not  speak  that  language.  They 
promised     me      that      they  would. 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 


79 


and  I  took  occasion  to  visit  them 
about  six  weeks  ago,  and  after 
hunting  them  up  I  went  into  the  house 
to  renew  acquaintance.  Of  course  they 
knew  me,  but  I  would  not  have  known 
them.  I  asked  them  about  it,  and  the 
mother  said,  "Yes,  we  have  four  chil- 
dren," they  had  lost  one  or  two,  'and 
every  one  of  these  can  now  talk 
Swedish  to  you,  if  you  can  understand 
them."  They  brought  those  children  to 
talk  and  sing  for  me,  and  the  little 
children  were  quite  young,  the  oldest 
being  about  twelve  years  old,  or  nearly 
so.  The  mother  said  they  talked  very 
correctly.  Of  course  1  could  not  Judge 
as  to  that,  but  suffice  it  to  say  they 
could  talk  their  mother  tongue;  and 
that  sister  carried  out  and  kept  the 
promise  they  had  made,  to  the  very 
letter.  The  father  comes  in  and  takes 
the  little  girl  on  his  knee,  but  he  does 
not  know  a  word  she  says.  I  was  very 
much  pleased  in  listening  to  thsse  chil- 
dren talk  their  mother  tongue.  Now 
this  will  apply  to  all  the  foreign  broth- 
ers and  sisters.  You  brethren  that  have 
been  to  Germany,  do  not  forget  the 
German  language,  the  language  that 
you  have  so  studiously  acquired  when 
you  were  preaching  the  Gospel.  Now, 
the  German  people  are  quite  numerous 
in  this  State,  and  every  one  of  them 
ought  to  take  greater  pains  in  teaching 
their  boys  their  own  language.  Now, 
Brother  Young  referred  to  this,  and  I 
thought  you  were  not  impressed  with 
the  idea  so  fully  as  you  ought  to  be 
with  regard  to  this  important  matter, 
for  I  tell  you  it  is  important.  There 
was  a  young  man  raised  by  the  side  of 
me  and  his  family  lived  by  the  side  of 
me  for  forty  years;  they  had  a  family 
of  boys,  and  they  were  good  boys  too, 
Both  father  and  mother  were  Norwe- 
gian. A  little  while  ago  one  of  the 
boys  was  sent  to  Norway  on  a  mission, 
and  it  was  with  a  great  deal  of  diffi- 
culty that  he  learned  the  language. 
He  had  not  learned  it  at  home  and  did 
not  make  a  success  learning  it  on  his 
mission,  did  not  make  a  success  learn- 
ing his  mother  tongue.  Now,  if  you 
take  children  in  their  infancy  you  can 
soon  teach  them  a  foreign  language. 
Talk  in  that  language  to  the  baby  and 
it  will  soon  learn  what  you  are  talking 
about.  Now,  this  thing  ought  to  be  ob- 
served throughout  the  whole  Church. 
We  are  here  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  all 


people,  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and 
tribes.  If  we  can  learn  the  language 
here  at  home,  how  much  better  it  is 
than  to  spend  months  when  you  go 
abroad  to  learn  the  foreign  language. 
You  people  that  know  the  French  lan- 
guage ought  to  cultivate  it  and  not  for- 
get it,  but  practice,  talk  and  read  it. 
The  Germans  ought  to  read  their  lan- 
guage and  have  the  children  read  it, 
and  so  with  the  Scandinavian  people. 
They  ought  to  have  books  and  teach 
the  children  to  read  the  language  as 
well  as  to  speak  it.  It  is  one  thing  to 
read  it  and  another  thing  to  speak  it. 
It  is  not  everybody  that  can  speak  it 
that  can  read  it  correctly.  We  ought 
to  take  these  matters  into  considera- 
tion. I  think  we  have  time  to  devote 
to  this  important  matter.  Now  I  think 
that  is  enough. 

I  want  to  say  something  in  relation 
to  what  Brother  David  H.  Cannon, 
President  of  the  St.  George  Temple, 
said. 

Temple  work  has  been  my  theme  and 
labor  for  a  great  many  years,  and,  of 
course,  those  subjects  naturally  im- 
press themselves  upon  my  mind.  It  is 
a  very  important  matter,  laboring  in 
the  interest  of  our  kindred  dead.  We 
feel  sometimes  that  we  have  done  a 
great  amount  of  labor  in  the  Temple. 
We  have  four  Temples  now  in  opera- 
tion, and  they  are  open  most  of  the 
year,  and  people  are  going  there,  but 
we  are  just  commencing  now;  we  will 
continue  during  our  life  time  to  work 
here,  and  the  life  time  of  our  children, 
and  the  life  time  of  our  children's 
children,  and  then  through  the  Millen- 
nium, and  how  much  longer  I  am  not 
prepared  to  say,  but  suffice  it  to  say 
the  work  will  go  on  and  continue  to 
go  on  during  these  periods.  Now,  I 
suppose  there  are  people  here  in  this 
congregation  that  have  almost  lived 
under  the  shadow  of  some  Temple,  and 
have  done  nothing.  You  are  liable,  as 
well  as  myself,  to  be  called  to  the  other 
side  to  meet  your  children  and  relatives 
that  have  died  without  the  Gospel,  and 
who  will,  no  doubt — no  question  in  my 
mind — receive  the  Gospel  if  we  will  give 
them  the  opportunity. 

Now  I  want  to  exhort  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  consider  these  mat- 
ters more  seriously.  Remember  the 
obligations  to  your  ancestors.  If  it  had 
not  been  for  them,  you  and  I  would 


So 


<;/■  \7  A'.  //.  r<  >. v /■/■: A' /:\\(  /■:. 


not  have  nn  existence.  Remember  our 
kindred,  and  our  fathers,  and  see  to  it 
that  the  hearts  <>f  the  fathers  are 
turned  to  the  children  and  the  hearts 
of  the  children  are  turned  to  the  fath- 
ers. God  bless  you.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

Oo,  ye  messengers  of  glory, 
Run,  ye  legates  of  the  skies. 

Benediction  by  Elder  M.  W.  Merrill. 


Tabernacle,  2  p.  m. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Glorious  things  of  thee  are  spoken, 

Zion,  city  of  our  God! 
He  whose  word  can  not  be  broken, 

Chose  thee  for  His  own  abode. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Abraham  Hatch. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  Ho- 
sannah. 

THE   GENERAL,  AUTHORITIES. 

were  presented  to  the  Conference  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon,  as  fol- 
lows: 

Wilford  Woodruff,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Lorenzo  Snow  as  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  —  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith. 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley  and 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church — John 
Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seven- 
ties— Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Weils 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  as  his 
first  and  John  R.  Winder  as  his  sec- 
ond counselor. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  Church 
historian  and  general  Church  recorder, 


with  John  Jaques,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose and  Andrew  Jenson  as  his  assist- 
ants. 

As  the  General  Church  Board  of 
Education— Wilford  Woodruff,  Loren- 
zo Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  Willard  Young,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  James  Sharp.  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  John  Nicholson. 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshippers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints— Wilford  Woodruff. 

John  Nicholson  as  clerk  of  the  Gen- 
eral Conference. 

All  of  the  voting  to  sustain  the  au- 
thorities was  unanimous. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 

Signs  of  the  times— Fulfilment    of    prophecy — 
Spirit  of  war — Work  for  the  dead. 

I  have  been  requested  to  occupy  a 
few  moments  of  your  precious  time 
this  afternoon.  I  greatly  desire  the 
sweet  and  enlightening  influences  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  direct  what  I  shall 
say  to  you,  that  the  time  may  be  oc- 
cupied acceptably  and  profitably.  I 
have  been  greatly  edified  in  the  in- 
structions that  have  been  given  from 
day  to  day  during  this  protracted  and 
exceedingly  interesting  Conference. 
A  great  deal  has  been  brought  for- 
ward for  our  consideration,  deeply  in- 
teresting, and  should  be  exceedingly 
profitable  unto  us. 

We  are  living  in  times  of  momentous 
importance,  times  which  are  marvel- 
ously  significant  from  every  point  of 
view  in  which  we  may  consider  the 
conditions  of  the  human  family  at 
the  present  time,  whether  religiously 
or  politically,  or  whatever  view  we 
may  take  of  it.  Jesus,  when  on  the 
earth,  informed  His  associates  that 
in  the  latter  times  there  should  come 
many  false  Christs,  and  there  would 
be  a  great  deal  of  wars  and  rumors 
of  wars  in  the  earth,  etc.  This  same 
Jesus,  risen  from  the  dead,  and  again 
speaking  to  His  Prophet  in  the  last 
days,  has  spoken  to  us  more  definitely 
and  significantly  upon  this  point  than 
He  did  at  that  time  to  the  brethren 
with  Him.  He  was  pleased  to  say  to 
His  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  on  the  25th 
day  of  December,  1832,  the  day  cele- 
brated as  the  anniversary  of  the  birth 
of  Christ,  that  there  should  come  wars 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


in  this  land,  and  specifically  stated 
that  they  should  commence  in  the 
state  of  South  Carolina.  This  revela- 
tion was  preserved  in  the  archives  of 
the  Church  until  July,  1851.  Some 
nineteen  years  after  this  revelation 
was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  it 
was  brought  out  and  published  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  Since  then  it  has 
become  common  property  to  all  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  who  have  been 
pleased  to  examine  the  revelations  of 
God  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  was 
stated  that  this  was  to  be  the  com- 
mencement of  wars  that  should  cause 
the  death  and  misery  of  many  souls. 
It  was  not  until  1861 — about  ten  years 
after  this  revelation  was  published — 
that  this  was  fulfilled.  And  it  was  not 
done  in  a  corner,  nor  in  any  obscure 
part  of  the  earth,  but  it  was  fulfilled 
just  as  the  Prophet  said  it  should  be. 
The  first  guns  of  that  war  were  dis- 
charged at  Fort  Sumter,  in  Charleston 
harbor,  South  Carolina.  It  is  now  a 
matter  of  national  history,  and  all 
the  human  family  should  know  that 
it  was  given  to  Joseph  Smith  in  1832, 
some  twenty-nine  years  before  it  oc- 
curred, and  which  cost  this  nation  so 
much  anguish  and  the  lives  of  nearly 
a  million  of  precious  souls. 

This  has  come  to  pass,  and  the  same 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  given  us 
through  the  same  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  understand  that  the  day  is 
near  at  hand  when  peace  shall  be  taken 
from  the  earth,  and  that  it  has  be- 
gun to  be  taken  from  the  earth.  These 
things  have  been  read  in  our  hearing 
during  this  Conference.  Now,  we  may 
as  well  understand  that  as  the  other 
great  revelation  of  1832  was  fulfilled, 
which  the  whole  human  family  know 
who  are  of  civilized  or  semi-civilized 
condition,  just  so  certain  is  this  also 
likely  to  be  fulfilled.  It  furthermore 
states  in  the  revelation  that  has  been 
read  to  us,  that  the  time  will  come 
when  all  nations  shall  be  at  war;  when 
every  man  that  will  not  take  up  his 
sword  to  defend  himself  against  his 
neighbor  will  have  to  flee  to  Zion. 
These  prophecies  indicate  a  growing 
tendency  in  that  direction.  And  I  won- 
der if  the  latter  part  that  I  have  just 
quoted  is  not  already  tasted  in  its 
bitterness  in  the  island  of  Cuba  near  to 
our  coast  though  they  have  not  the 
chance  to  flee  to  Zion,  but  have  to  take 


up  their  sword  against  their  neighbors 
and  have  to  contend  for  their  liberties, 
and  are  at  the  present  time  in  a  hor- 
ribly distressed  condition,  objects  of 
the  charity  of  the  whole  nation  and  of 
the  other  nations  of  the  earth. 

Living  then  in  times  when  these 
tremendous  prophecies  are  hanging 
over  the  heads  of  the  human  family, 
partly  fulfilled,  partly  unfulfilled,  and 
when  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  with 
his  message  in  these  last  days  de- 
claring the  Gospel  revealed  again  and 
bringing  especially  the  word,  "the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come,",  shall 
we  take  no  notice  of  these  great  and 
wonderfully  significant  sayings?  The 
brethren  who  have  ears  to  hear  and 
hearts  to  understand,  will  feel  the 
necessity  of  maintaining  closer  busi- 
ness relations  than  we  have  been  in 
the  habit  of  doing  for  the  last  decade 
to  two.  If  we  had  hearkened  to  the 
good  counsels  that  were  given  to  us 
by  our  President,  and  made  it  a  point, 
as  they  and  the  officers  of  our  cities 
and  counties  did,  to  make  once  a  year 
a  clean  sheet,  and  get  no  further  into 
debt,  we  would  have  been  in  a  much 
stronger  business  condition  today 
than  we  now  are,  and  many 
men  would  have  saved  them- 
selves sleepless  hours  who  now 
have  to  lie  awake  to  study  how  they 
are  going  to  raise  the  money  to  meet 
their  obligations  and  to  save  their 
homes  from  being  taken  away  from 
them. 

We  live  in  a  time  when  the  na- 
tions of  all  the  earth  are  so  disunitedly 
united  that  the  tension  of  their  con- 
nection is  drawn  to  its  utmost  limit  in 
many  places.  We  need  not  only  to 
notice  the  case  here  on  our  coast,  but 
it  is  so  on  the  other  side  of  the  globe. 
Nations  are  ready  to  go  to  war,  and 
anxious  for  the  opportunity.  It  seems 
as  if  the  spirit  of  war  had  gone  forth 
until  great  men  who  pose  as  patriots, 
and  would  like  to  be  considered  states- 
men, are  ready  and  clamoring  for  war. 
Latter-day  Saints  have  always  taught 
the  principles  of  peace  and  good  will. 
This  came  to  us  through  our  Savior. 
But  He  told  us  that  we  were  going  to 
come  to  a  time  when  we  would  have 
contention  and  strife  even  in  our 
families;  when  a  man's  enemies  should 
be  they  of  his  own  household — another 
affirmative  statement  of  that  terrible 


8a 


CI  \  I  R.  //.    (  ONFERENCE. 


consummation  that  was  before  re- 
ferred to.  The  world  are  tending  to 
that.  But  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
tending  to  peace,  to  union,  to  fellow- 
ship, and  love.  While  in  the  midst  of 
our  deepest  affliction,  harrassed,  tor- 
mented, scattered  and  peeled,  and 
ooming  here  as  far  as  we  could  get 
away  from  civilization  to  make  a 
home.  I  say  while  we  have  been  pass- 
ing through  these  things  we  have  had 
a  peace  within  us;  we  have  a  settled 
conviction  of  the  knowledge  of  God; 
we  know  that  He  has  accepted  us  as 
His  children;  we  know  that  He  has 
manifested  himself  to  us  frequently 
by  gifts  and  blessings  and  manifesta- 
tions not  a  few.  Thus  have  we  been 
right  along.  And  while  we  do  not 
nor  are  we  under  any  necessity  to, 
make  any  great  demonstration  or  in- 
dulge in  any  spread-eagle  discourses 
to  convince  the  people  that  we  are  at 
peace,  and  that  we  wish  they  would 
keep  the  peace,  that  has  been  the  way 
we  have  felt.  But  the  Lord  has  told 
us  that  Zion  would  be  the  only  people 
on  the  earth  that  would  be  at  peace 
in  the  earth.  Therefore,  we  want  to 
overcome  evil  with  good,  cultivate  this 
spirit  and  the  keeping  of  the  command- 
ments of  God,  and  get  that  spirit  that 
Brother  Joseph  was  talking  to  us  of 
this  morning,  to  know  that  we  are 
born  again,  that  His  Spirit  is  in  u,s, 
that  we  live  by  it  and  are  guided  by 
those  principles;  that  it  is  the  light 
that  leadeth  our  feet,  and  we  want  to 
live  so  as  to  keep  it  growing  brighter 
and  brighter  till  the  perfect  day. 

Considering  these  are  the  times  and 
conditions  in  which  we  live,  it  seems 
to  me  that  the  teachings  we  have  had 
during  this  Conference  have  been 
wonderfully  adapted  to  our  condition, 
not  only  the  spiritual  portion,  but  the 
exhortation  to  the  wise  management 
of  our  temporal  concerns.  I  would 
urge  the  brethren  to  make  all  reason- 
able effort  to  get  out  of  debt,  and 
live  honest  and  honorable  before  all 
men.  If  you  have  but  little,  realize 
that  that  much  comes  as  near  being 
yours  as  anybody's,  except  the  Lord's, 
who  has  made  you  the  steward  over 
it. 

We  see  then  that  the  growth  and 
tendency  of  all  influences  existing 
among  the  human  family  are  towards 
discord,   violence,   warfare,  contention 


and  strife.  The  union  that  used  to  be 
felt  among  people  in  neighborhoods  is 
being  lost.  The  confidence  of  men 
with  men  is  being  lost.  We  hear  it 
common  among  the  people  that  we 
must  treat  every  man  in  that  way 
that  we  do  not  know  but  he  may  turn 
to  be  dishonest. 

Now,  in  the  light  of  the  great  work 
that  is  going  on,  we  want  to  cultivate 
every  grace  and  virtue,  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  and  the  cove- 
rts we  have  made  with  each  other. 
It  is  our  integrity,  our  faithfulness, 
and  our  devotion  to  do  these  things 
and  to  walk  in  the  law  of  the  Lord, 
that  we  may  have  the  light  of  His 
Spirit  to  increase  with  us  constantly 
—it  is  this  that  is  going  to  enable  us 
to  get  through  and  accomplish  the 
work  that  is  laid  upon  us  for  our- 
selves and  for  our  dead.  I  want  to 
say  that  in  our  appointing  the  Elders 
to  the  nations  we  have  an  eye  con- 
tinually to  their  efforts  among  their 
kindred  in  distant  lands,  and  the  ob- 
taining of  the  genealogy  of  their  an- 
cestry, that  they  may  labor  for  their 
dead. 

I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
I  sense  it  continually.  The  only  thing 
that  I  have  to  concern  myself  about  is 
to  be  able  to  live  it,  to  be  counted 
worthy  of  the  multiplied  blessings 
which  He  has  bestowed  upon  us.  In 
other  lands  people  are  dying  by  the 
hundreds  and  thousands,  through 
famine  and  terrible  diseases  and  pesti- 
lences, which  are  God's  messengers 
sent  forth  to  convince  the  people.  As 
it  was  said  to  an  ancient  Prophet, 
when  the  judgments  of  the  Lord  were 
in  the  earth  people  would  learn 
righteousness.  Perhaps  they  will;  but 
I  am  afraid  it  is  going  to  be  too  late 
for  the  great  mass  of  them,  the  way 
they  act.  It  seems  as  if  the  human 
family  were  anxious  to  become  drunk 
with  blood  and  imbrue  their  hands  in 
each  other's  blood.  And  what  a  work 
will  it  be  when  peace  is  taken  from 
the  earth!  Let  us  cultivate  peace. 
Let  us  walk  in  all  the  ways  of  the 
Lord  and  serve  Him  continually. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  God  may 
be  upon  all  the  interests  of  Zion;  that 
the  spirit  of  this  Conference  may  go 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth  as  far  as 
there    are    Saints  or  honest    in  heart 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


that  want  to  hear  and  to  learn  of  it, 
that  it  may  be  a  blessing  and  a  benefit 
to  us  and  to  the  human  family;  that 
the  work  of  the  Lord  may  go  on  and 
prosper,  increase  and  spread  abroad 
until  the  Gospel  has  gone  to  all  na- 
tions, and  until  all  the  ends  of  the 
earth  shall  be  made  to  know  that  He 
is  God,  and  that  there  is  none  else  in 
the  earth  like  unto  Him.  And  may 
His  blessings  be  upon  us,  and  upon 
all  we  have  to  do  with — our  persons, 
our,  families,  our  flocks,  our  herds, 
our  gardens  and  our  orchards,  and  all 
that  the  Lord  hath  made  us  the  stew- 
ards over,  in  the  name  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Prophetic  promises  concerning  the  land  of  America 
and  Its  people— It  is  choice  above  all  other  lands 
— Designs  of  God  in  regard  to  it — Law  in  relation 
to  war — Course  of  the  government  of  our  nation 
commended— Our  duty  to  our  country. 

The  remarks  which  have  been  made 
by  Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards  con- 
cerning the  position  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  are  in,  and  particularly 
our  position,  and  his  reference  to  the 
revelation  that  was  read  the  other 
day  concerning  the  necessity  there 
would  be  for  those  who  desired  peace 
to  flee  to  Zion,  suggests  the  reading 
of  some  promises  and  predictions  that 
the  Lord  has  made  concerning  this 
land.  Lehi,  before  his  death,  in  speak- 
ing about  this  land  to  which  he  and 
his  family  had  been  led,  made  the  fol- 
lowing remarks: 

"Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated 
unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And 
if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  Him 
according  to  the  commandment  which 
he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  them;  wherefore,  they 
shall  never  be  brought  down 
into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because 
of  iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall 
abound,  cursed  shall  be  the  land  for 
their  sakes;  but  unto  the  righteous  it 
shall  be  blessed  for  ever." 

His  son  Jacob  also  spoke  concerning 
this  land,  and  those  who  had  charge 
of  the  records  have  left  on  record  some- 
thing that  He  has  said  respecting  it: 

"But  behold,  this  land,  saith  God, 
shall  be  a  land  of  thine  inheritance, 
and  the  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon 
the  land. 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  lib- 
erty unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there  shall 


be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall 
rise  up  unto  the  Gentiles; 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against 
all  other  nations." 

Here  is  a  promise  given  to  the  peo- 
ple of  this  land,  that  if  we  will  serve 
the  God  of  this  land  no  nation  shall 
prevail  against  us;  for  the  Lord  says 
he  will  fortify  this  land  against  all 
other  nations.  Of  course,  it  is  under- 
stood that  to  have  this  we  must  be  a 
righteous  nation. 

Other  prophets  have  spoken  in  sim- 
ilar language.  It  is  recorded  by  Mor- 
oni, in  the  book  of  Ether,  as  follows: 

"And  now  we  can  behold  the  decrees 
of  God  concerning  this  land,  that  it  is 
a  land  of  promise,  and  whatsoever 
nation  shall  possess  it,  shall  serve  God, 
or  they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  ful- 
ness of  his  wrath  shall  come  upon 
them.  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath 
cometh  upon  them  when  they  are 
ripened  in  iniquity; 

For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is 
choice  above  all  other  lands;  where- 
fore he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve 
God,  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it 
is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity 
among  the  children  of  this  land,  that 
they  are  swept  off. 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye 
Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  de- 
crees of  God,  that  ye  may  repent,  and 
not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until 
the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not 
bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  you,  as  the  inhabitants 
of  the  land  hath  hitherto  done. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it, 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from 
captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve 
the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ,  who  hath  been  manifested  by 
the  things  which  we  have  written." 

These  are  great  promises  which  the 
Lord  has  given  unto  the  inhabitants 
of  this  land;  not  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  alone,  but  to  all  the  people  of 
the  land.  You  remember,  no  doubt, 
the  effort  that  was  made  to  establish 
a  king  on  this  land  of  North  America, 
and  the  destruction  which  resulted  to 
many  of  those  who  attempted  it.  The 
word  of  God  as  recorded  in  this  Book 
of  Mormon,  which  was  revealed 
through    the     Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


concerning  the  results  of  any  attempt 
to  set  up  a  king  on  this  land,  was 
literally  fulfilled  In  that  instance. 
Mnximilllan  was  destroyed,  and  the 
attempt  to  establish  an  empire  was 
brought  to  naught.  The  Mexican  peo- 
ple, inspired  wth  a  grand  patriotism 
and  an  Intense  love  for  country,  rose 
up,  led  by  a  pure  descendant  of  Lehi— 
a  pure  Lamanite— and  overthrew  the 
armies  of  Europe  that  were  brought 
here  to  conquer  the  land  and  to  es- 
tablish upon  this  sacred  soil— this  soil 
dedicated  by  the  Almighty  to  liberty 
and  freedom— an  empire.  The  flower 
of  the  French  army,  and  most  dis- 
tinguished of  her  generals,  with  the 
Emperor  Napoleon  himself  as  the  de- 
signer of  the  enterprise,  backed  and 
sustained  by  Austria,  were  ignomin- 
ious] y  overthrown  and  brought  to 
shame  and  confusion.  The  Lord  ful- 
filled His  word  exactly  as  it  had  been 
predicted  long  before.  Upwards  of 
six  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of 
the  Savior  Ether,  a  Prophet  of  God, 
had  made  predictions  concerning  this 
land.  Not  long  after  that  Lehi  made 
similar  predictions.  Shortly  after  that 
Jacob,  a  Prophet  of  God,  made  pre- 
dictions concerning  the  fate  of  those 
who  should  attempt  to  bring  the  in- 
habitants of  this  land  into  bondage, 
and  he  said  that  no  king  should  be 
established  upon  the  land.  So  that  we 
have  on  record  great  predictions  by 
these  three  men  of  God  concerning 
the  future  of  America.  This  is  a  sa- 
cred land.  It  is  a  land  choice  above 
all  other  lands  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  It  was  kept  hidden  from  the 
nations  for  long  centuries,  and  the 
reason  for  this  has  been  given  to  us; 
it  was  that  the  land  might,  not  be  over- 
run by  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
that  it  might  be  reserved  for  the  great 
drama  of  the  last  days. 

It  is  a  remarkable  thing,  and  we 
would  be  incapable  of  understanding 
the  reason  why  this  land  had  been 
hidden  for  so  many  centuries  from  the 
knowledge  of  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
if  the  Lord  had  not  revealed  it.  There 
is  said  to  be  a  record  among  the 
Scandianvians  that  some  of  that  race 
penetrated  the  western  sea  and  land- 
ed on  the  coast  of  North  America. 
This  may  or  may  not  be  so.  The 
Welsh  also  claim  that  a  prince  of  their 
blood    also    reached    this  land.  The 


Irish  also  have  a  tradition  that  some 
of  their  race  penetrated  the  western 
ocean  and  reached  the  land.  But  who- 
ever did  this.  If  any,  left  nothing  on 
record  to  incite  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  the  belief  that  there  lay  hidden, 
enveloped  In  the  mists  of  the  western 
sea,  a  large  hemisphere  such  as  the 
continent  of  North  and  South  America. 
The  knowledge  of  it  was  completely 
hidden,  as  completely  as  if  it  did  not 
belong  to  our  globe.  Navigators  sailed 
to  and  fro;  but  through  the  long  cen- 
turies that  elapsed  from  the  confusion 
of  tongues  at  the  Tower  of  Babel,  when 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  were 
scattered,  until  the  time  that  Colum- 
bus, inspired  of  God,  went  from  court 
to  court,  pleading  with  the  govern- 
ments of  nations  to  give  him  the  means 
to  penetrate  the  ocean  and  find  what 
he  supposed  was  the  Indies — during 
all  that  time  the  knowledge  of  this 
land  was  kept  from  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth.  Is  not  this  wonderful? 
How  can  we  account  for  it?  There  is 
only  one  way,  and  that  is  the  way  the 
Lord  accounts  for  it;  He  tells  us 
through  His  servant  that  the  knowl- 
edge of  this  land  should  be  kept  from 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  because  if 
it  were  not  they  would  overrun  the 
land.  It  was  a  land  too  choice  to  be 
left  unoccupied,  possessed  of  too  many 
of  those  elemnts  that  enrich  indi- 
viduals and  peoples.  The  nations  of 
the  earth  would  have  swarmed  here 
by  the  hundreds  of  thousands,  and 
there  would  have  been  no  place  found 
upon  the  land  for  the  great  events  that 
are  taking  place  now  and  for  the  peo- 
ple who  now  possess  the  land.  There 
would  have  been  no  room  for  the 
Church  of  Christ,  no  room  for  the 
kingdom  of  God,  no  room  for  the  gath- 
ering of  the  millions  that  will  yet 
come  to  Zion,  to  build  up  the  kingdom 
of  God  on  this  land  and  to  prepare  the 
way  for  the  establishment  of  the  New 
Jerusalem;  for  this  is  the  favored  land 
upon  which  the  New  Jerusalem  will 
be  established.  We,  therefore,  can  see 
today  how  the  Lord  has  prepared  the 
way  for  the  gathering  of  the  people 
from  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
how  His  providence  has  been  over  this 
choice  land  above  all  other  lands. 
There  is  plenty  of  room  here;  not 
crowding  upon  anybody;  not  com- 
pelled to  come  as  conquerors  have  in 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


85 


other  ages  who  have  overrun  other 
lands  and  driven  out  or  destroyed  the 
people  who  occupied  the  land.  In  order 
that  they  might  possess  it.  No  neces- 
sity for  this;  for  God  has  made 
abundant  provisions.  He  has  kept  in 
reserve  this  glorious  land,  in  order 
that  in  the  last  days  His  kingdom 
could  be  established,  and  that  under 
the  inspiration  which  He  should  give, 
a  government  might  be  founded — a 
government  of  liberty,  a  government 
of  freedom,  giving  to  all  the  utmost 
liberty  they  could  desire,  and  promis- 
ing to  those  who  should  possess  the 
land  many  precious  things;  for  He 
has  told  us  that  none  should  be 
brought  here  except  they  should  come 
by  His  permission.  Therefore,  the 
emigration  that  has  come  from  the  be- 
ginning, and  that  is  still  coming, 
comes  by  the  permission  of  the  Al- 
mighty. He  is  watching  over  it,  and 
He  will  control  it  and  bring  to  pass 
His  purposes  in  connection  with  it. 
He  has  told  us  that  if  we  will  only 
worship  the  God  of  this  land,  Jesus 
Christ,  we  cannot  be  brought  into 
bondage  or  into  captivity  by  any  other 
nation.  The  powers  of  Europe  may 
band  together  and  indulge  in  hopes  of 
conquering  this  nation;  but  the  Lord 
has  said— and  it  will  be  fulfilled  if  we 
do  right— that  they  will  be  defeated 
in  all  their  schemes,  and  this  shall  be 
a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  righteous. 
This  nation  of  ours,  so  glorious  in  its 
past,  so  glorious  in  its  prospects  of 
the  future,  will  stand  and  never  be 
overthrown,  unless  the  inhabitants  of 
the  land  reject  Jesus  Christ,  the  King 
and  the  God  of  the  land.  Now  we 
know  the  conditions  upon  which  vic- 
tory will  be  assured  to  us  as  a  nation. 
If  this  nation  had  listened  to  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet  of  God;  if  they  had 
been  counseled  by  him,  God  would 
have  adopted  this  nation  and  its  gov- 
ernment, and  made  it  His;  for  the 
promises  are  to  that  effect.  Now,  what 
the  future  will  be  depends  upon  the 
conduct  of  those  who  possess  the  land 
and  upon  the  administration  of  affairs 
in  the  land. 

There  is  one  thing  that  has  glad- 
dened me  very  much  during  this  re- 
cent agitation  concerning  war;  I  have 
been  pleased  exceedingly  at  the  course 
that  has  been  taken  by  the  adminis- 
tration in  this    threatened  difficulty. 


There  has  been  so  manifest  a  desire 
and  determination  on  the  part  of 
President  McKinley  and  those  imme- 
diately connected  with  him,  to  keep 
down  excitement,  to  prevent  the  cir- 
culation of  falsehood  and  everything 
that  would  disturb  the  public  mind 
and  inflame  it  against  Spain,  that  I 
have  been  very  much  pleased. 

In  connection  with  this  I  would  like 
to  read  a  revelation  which  the  Lord 
has  given  to  us  as  a  people,  because 
I  see  in  the  conduct  of  the  adminis- 
tration some  features  that  agree  with 
the  instructions  of  the  Lord.  The 
Lord,  in  speaking  about  the  plan  that 
He  recommended  to  His  ancients, 
says: 

"Behold,  this  is  the  law  I  gave  unto 
my  servant  Nephi,  and  thy  fathers 
Joseph,  and  Jacob,  and  Isaac,  and 
Abraham,  and  all  mine  ancient  Proph- 
ets and  Apostles. 

"And  again,  this  is  the  law  that  I 
gave  unto  mine  ancients,  that  they 
should  not  go  out  unto  battle  against 
any  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  or  people, 
save  I,  the  Lord,  commanded  them. 

Here  is  a  law  given  that  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  as  well  as  to  us  as  a  people. 
It  is  the  law  by  which  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  should  be  governed,  and 
we,  as  Latter-day  Saints  especially, 
should  understand  this  law  and  ba 
governed  by  it;  and  not,  as  we  have 
been  told  at  this  Conference,  indulge 
in  warlike  demonstrations  or  manifest 
a  bloodthirsty  disposition.  We  should 
be  a  peaceful  people,  seeking  peace, 
and  endeavoring  to  escape  all  the  hor- 
rors of  war,  and  to  avert  them  from 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  particularly 
our  own  nation.    The  Lord  says: 

"And  if  any  nation,  tongue,  or  peo- 
ple, should  proclaim  war  against 
them,  they  should  first  lift  a  standard 
of  peace  unto  that  people,  nation,  or 
tongue." 

I  have  been  impressed  (and  I  say  this 
aside  from  any  political  bias,  not  wish- 
ing political  feeling  to  enter  into  a 
question  of  this  kind)  with  the  conduct 
of  the  administration  in  relation  to 
this.  There  has  seemed  to  me  to  be  a 
determination  on  the  part  of  President 
McKinley  and  those  immediately  as- 
sociated with  him  to  push  off  war  and 
to  do  all  in  their  power  to  avert  it. 
Because  of  their  apparent  hesitation 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


some  have  become  Inflamed  against 
them,  and  have  felt  that  the  dignity 
of  the  nation  was  not  being  main- 
tained, and  that  we  were  not  doing 
as  we  should  do  to  punish  Spain  for 
her  supposed  action  In  relation  to  the 
destruction  of  the  battleship  Maine, 
and  because  of  her  treatment  of  the 
Cubans.  The  feelings  of  our  nation 
have  been  stirred  up  by  reports  in  the 
newspapers,  many  of  which  have  been 
incorrect  and  without  foundation. 
While  the  examination  concerning 
the  destruction  of  the  Maine  was  go- 
ing on,  the  administration  has  been 
under  the  continued  necessity  of  pub- 
licly denying  the  false  stories  that 
had  obtained  circulation;  and  they  did 
this  in  the  interests  of  peace,  to  keep 
the  people  of  our  nation  from  being 
misled  and  stirred  up  to  such  a  de- 
gree of  indignation  that  they  could 
not  be  controlled.  I  have  admired  this, 
and  I  have  thanked  God  that  this 
spirit  has  been  given  unto  the  men 
that  have  our  nation  and  its  affairs 
in  charge,  because  I  have  recognized 
how  much  it  agreed  with  what  the 
Lord  has  said.  Spain  has  not  yet  pro- 
claimed war  against  this  nation;  but 
if  she  has  countenanced  (which  I  do 
not  believe  she  did)  the  destruction  of 
the  battleship  Maine,  or  even  if  the 
ruling  powers  in  Spain  have  done  it, 
and  were  determined  to  have  war  with 
us,  the  Lord  says  we  should  lift  up  a 
standard  of  peace  unto  that  nation. 
That  is  the  duty  of  this  nation.  That 
is  the  duty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
when  their  enemies  come  against  them 
to  make  war  upon  them.  We  must 
proclaim  peace;  do  all  in  our  power 
to  appease  the  wrath  of  our  enemies; 
make  any  sacrifice  that  honorable  peo- 
ple can  to  avert  war,  with  all  its  hor- 
rors, entailing  as  it  does  dreadful  con- 
sequences so  numerous  that  they  can- 
not be  mentioned.  It  is  our  duty,  I 
say,  as  a  nation.  The  influence  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  be  used  in 
this  direction.  We  should  seek  to 
quell  these  feelings  of  anxiety  to  fight 
and  to  shed  blood.  Our  influence 
should  go  forth  like  oil  poured  upon 
the  troubled  waters,  quieting  the 
waves  of  discontent  and  wrath  that 
are  aroused  by  this  fearful  spirit.  The 
Lord  then  tells  us  what  should  be 
done: 


"And  if  that  people  did  not  accept 
the  offering  of  peace  neither  the  sec- 
ond nor  the  third  time," 

Not  only  ought  we  to  extend  the 
offering  of  peace  the  first  time  to  a 
nation  that  proclaims  war  against  us. 
but  again  the  second  time;  and  if  that 
should  be  rejected,  again  the  third 
time;  and  if  it  be  rejected  the  third 
time,  then 

"They  should  bring  these  testimonies 
before  the  Lord." 

Go  to  the  Lord,  and  say,  "Here  are 
our  testimonies.  We  have  offered  peace 
the  first  time;  we  have  offered  it 
twice;  we  have  offered  it  three  times; 
but  our  offerings  are  rejected,  and  this 
nation  is  determined  to  have  war  with 
us.  Now  we  bring  these  testimonies 
before  thee,  Lord." 

"Then  I,  the  Lord,  would  give  unto 
them  a  commandment,  and  justify 
them  in  going  out  to  battle  against 
that  nation,  tongue,  or  people, 

"And  I,  the  Lord,  would  fight  their 
battles,  and  their  children's  battles, 
and  their  children's  children's,  until 
they  had  avenged  themselves  on  all 
their  enemies,  to  the  third  and  fourth 
generation. 

"Behold,  this  is  an  ensample  unto  all 
people,  saith  the  Lord  your  God,  for 
justification  before  me. 

I  do  not  look  for  our  nation  to  do 
this.  It  is  scarcely  to  be  expected,  in 
the  nature  of  things,  that  they  would 
do  it.  But  it  is  the  true  principle,  and 
we  as  a  people  should  use  our  influ- 
ence for  this  purpose.  Our  prayers 
should  ascend  to  God;  our  petitions 
should  ascend  to  the  government  of 
our  nation  to  do  everything  that  hon- 
orable people  can  to  avert  war.  We 
have  no  fear  of  the  effect  of  the  com- 
binations against  us.  Spain  might  in- 
flict great  damage  upon  our  coasts. 
Her  naval  strength  is  equal  if  not  su- 
perior to  ours.  We  have  a  very  ex- 
tended line  of  seacoast,  and  a  diffi- 
cult line  to  defend  against  a  strong 
naval  power.  And  we  might  suffer  in 
the  beginning.  But  the  promise  of  God 
is  that  if  we  will  do  right  as  a  nation, 
if  we  will  serve  Him,  they  shall  not 
have  power  over  us,  or  be  able  to 
bring  us  into  bondage;  and  in  the  end 
we  shall  prevail.  This  is  a  glorious 
promise  which  is  made  to  the  inhab- 
itants of  this  land.    I  would  to  God 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


87 


that  the  whole  nation  would  believe 
it.  I  would  to  God  that  they  would 
accept  the  testimonies  of  the  past,  the 
prophecies  that  have  been  referred  to 
this  afternoon;  for  I  say  to  you,  as  I 
would  like  to  say  to  this  entire  nation, 
i  nere  are  prophets  of  God  in  the  land. 
The  word  of  God  is  in  the  midst  of  the 
people.  The  Lord  reveals  His  mind 
and  will  unto  His  servants  the  Proph- 
ets. The  Droofs  of  it  are  before  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  There  is 
abundant  evidence  to  substantiate  the 
statements  which  have  been  made  that 
the  Lord  has  revealed  His  will,  and 
that  there  are  Prophets  in  the  land. 
And  if  the  nation  would  believe,  the 
Lord  would  make  them  the  great  and 
mighty  power  that  we  are  told  by  the 
ancient  Prophets  this  nation  might 
become. 

To  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  these 
principles  are  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance. I  do  not  want  to  see  our  young 
men  get  filled  with  the  spirit  of  war 
and  be  eager  for  the  conflict.  God  for- 
bid that  such  a  spirit  should  prevail 
in  our  land,  or  that  we  should  con- 
tribute in  any  manner  to  the  propaga- 
tion of  a  spirit  of  that  kind!  But  one 
may  say,  "Is  it  not  our  duty  to  defend 
our  country  and  our  flag?  Is  it  not 
our  duty  to  maintain  the  institutions 
which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us?" 
Certainly  it  is.  And  it  is  no  part  of 
cowardice  to  take  the  plan  that  the 
Lord  has  pointed  out.  No  man  need  be 
afraid  that  the  Lord  or  any  just  man 
will  look  upon  him  as  a  coward. 

There  was  a  time  when  men  who  be- 
came angry  at  each  other  fought 
duels.  A  man  of  honor  considered  it 
his  duty,  if  he  received  an  insult,  to 
challenge  the  insulter,  and  the  man 
that  was  challenged  had  the  choice  of 
weapons,  and  they  fought  in  single 
combat  to  avenge  their  honor.  And 
such  a  feeling  prevailed  on  this  ques- 
tion that  brave  men  were  liable  to  be 
charged  with  cowardice  if  they  did  not 
fight.  It  took  the  bravest  kind  of  men 
to  refuse  to  fight.  But  it  is  not  an 
evidence  of  true  courage  to  be  willing 
to  rush  into  a  fight.  Sometimes  the 
bravest  of  people  shrink  from  any  such 
action  as  this;  when  the  time  comes  to 
fight,  however,  they  are  the  bravest, 
and  the  slowest  to  yield. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  a  command 
in  connection  with  this  subject  that 


is  worth  while  for  us  to  bear  in  mind: 
"For  he  will  give  unto  the  faithful 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept; 
and  I  will  try  you  and  prove  you  here- 
with; 

"And  whoso  layeth  down  his  life  in 
my  cause,  for  my  name's  sake,  shall 
find  it  again,  even  life  eternal: 

"Therefore  be  not  afraid  of  your  ene- 
mies, for  I  have  decreed  in  my  heart, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  I  will  prove  you 
in  all  things,  whether  you  will  abide 
in  my  covenant,  even  unto  death,  that 
you  may  be  found  worthy." 

In  this  revelation  the  Lord  requires 
us  to  be  a  brave  people,  a  true  and 
faithful  people.  As  one  of  our  hymns 
says: 

"We  want  no  cowards  in  our  band, 

Who  will  our  colors  fly; 
We  call  for  valiant-hearted  men, 

Who're  not  afraid  to  die." 

This  is  the    kind    of    people  that 
are  wanted  in  the  Church  of  Christ; 
not  cowards,  or  men  who  will  shirk 
and  fly  in  the  hour  of  danger.  Such 
people  are  not  wanted.    At  the  same 
time    the    Lord    expects    us  to  be  a 
peace-loving    people,    willing    to  do 
everything  in  our  power  for  peace,  to 
preserve  the  lives  of  the  human  family, 
to  deliver  every  person,  to  the  extent 
of  our  ability,  from  all  the  evils  that 
Satan  would  bring  upon  them.  There- 
fore, I  hope  if  there  is  a  disposition 
not  to  clamor  for  war  that  it  will  not 
be  attributed  to  cowardice  or  to  the 
fear  of  losing  life.    God  has  command- 
ed us  to  be  ready  to  lay  down  our  lives 
whenever  it  shall  be  necessary.    If  it 
should  be  to  defend    our   religion,  we 
have  in  days  past  shown  our  fearless- 
ness in  that  direction.    Speaking  gen- 
erally, our  people  have  not  been  afraid 
to  lay  down  their  lives  for  their  re- 
ligion.   We  should  be  equally  willing, 
if  it  should  be  necessary,  to  lay  down 
our  lives  for  our  country,  for  its  in- 
stitutions, for  the  preservation  of  its 
liberty,   that  these  glorious  blessings 
and  privileges  shall  be  preserved  to  all 
mankind,  and  especially  to  those  with 
whom  we  are  immediately  connected. 
A    man    is  of    very  little  value  that 
would    not    be    willing    to    take  the 
chances  in  a  contest  where  these  im- 
portant interests  were  at  stake;  for 
these  interests  are  of  far  more  value 
than  life  itself.    I  believe  that  the  day 
will  come,  or  is  here  now,  that  if  this 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


people  called  Latter-day  Saints  should 
be  required  to  go  to  defend  their 
country  and  Its  institutions,  their 
homes  and  their  religion,  and  the  rights 
of  their  fellow-men,  there  would  be  an 
almost  universal  response  In  favor  of 
that.  Therefore,  that  which  I  say  upon 
these  points  is  not  in  favor  of  shrink- 
ing from  the  defense  of  everything 
that  is  right,  or  of  doing  anything  that 
would  be  craven  and  unworthy  of 
honorable  people.  I  would  not  like  to 
see  our  government  put  itself  in  a  po- 
sition that  it  would  not  stand  fair  be- 
fore all  the  nations  of  the  earth;  and 
every  effort  that  we  make  for  peace 
will  make  us  stand  fair,  because  there 
is  a  feeling  throughout  the  world 
that  the  American  people  are  strong 
enough  to  be  magnanimous,  and  that 
when  they  are  magnanimous,  it  is  not 
prompted  by  any  craven  or  unworthy 
feeling. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  en- 
deavored to  lay  before  you  some  of  the 
promises  that  God  has  made  to  us. 
I  say  "us,"  because  we  are  inhabitants 
of  this  land  and  possessors  in  com- 
mon with  our  fellow  citizens.  I  have 
read  this  to  you  so  that  if  you  need 
comfort  it  may  be  imparted  unto  you. 
There  need  be  no  trepidation  in  our 
hearts  concerning  the  threatening  as- 
pect of  affairs.  If  war  should  come, 
it  will  no  doubt  come  because  of  the 
determination  of  Spain  to  force  it 
upon  us.  I  feel  confident  that  there 
is  no  disposition  on  the  part  of  our 
own  government,  whatever  may  be 
the  feeling  of  the  masses  of  the  people, 
to  create  war.  The  freedom  of  Cuba 
has  nothing  particularly  to  do  with 
us,  only  this  far:  They  are  on  our 
borders,  and  the  atrocities  which  have 
been  committed  have  been  of  so  aw- 
ful a  character  that  we  would  be  less 
than  human  if  we  did  not  sympathize 
with  them.  Our  government  is  amply 
justified  in  demanding  that  these 
atrocities  shall  cease.  We  would  be 
less  than  human  if  we  could  sit  quiet- 
ly by  and  see  people  massacred  and 
starved  to  death  as  they  have  been 
and  are  being  on  the  island  of  Cuba. 
It  is  not  the  newspaper  correspondents 
alone  who  have  brought  these  tidings 
to  us;  but  men  of  the  highest  repute 
have  told  of  the  conditions  there.  I 
have  myself  had  communications  upon 
the  subject  from  one  of  the  leading 


men  in  this  nation,  who  visited  Cuba 
personally.  Of  course,  we  all  have 
seen  what  the  newspapers  have  said. 
Under  these  circumstances,  men  and 
women  who  have  the  least  feeling  for 
their  fellow  creatures  must  cry  out 
against  the  continued  perpetration  of 
such  horrors,  and  the  word  should  go 
forth  that  they  must  cease.  We  cannot 
allow  a  continuation  of  these  scenes 
while  we  have  the  power  as  a  nation 
to  put  an  end  to  them.  Then  if  Spain 
is  determined,  because  of  this  position 
that  we  have  assumed,  to  make  war 
upon  us,  let  us  do  the  best  we  can 
under  the  circumstances.  But  I  hope 
that  Spain  will  see  the  folly  of  continu- 
ing this,  and  will  give  those  poor, 
wretched  people  the  liberty  they  are 
contending  for. 

I  pray  God  the  Eternal  Father  to  be 
with  us  as  a  people,  to  fill  us  with 
sentiments  of  justice  and  mercy,  with 
comprehensive  views  concerning  our 
relationship  to  mankind  in  general, 
and  the  duties  that  devolve  upon  us 
because  of  our  position.  For  I  say  to 
you  this  day  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  some  respects,  occupy  the 
most  influential  position  of  any  people 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  according 
to  our  numbers.  And  our  influence 
will  be  felt  more  and  more,  especially 
if  we  will  only  be  united.  It  is  our  union 
that  gives  us  power.  Take  that  away 
from  us  and  we  are  weak  as  water. 
But  united,  bound  together  in  holiness, 
in  purity,  and  in  the  love  of  liberty 
and  of  truth,  we  are  the  strongest 
people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
God  grant  that  this  may  continue,  and 
increase,  until  all  shall  be  fulfilled 
that  has  been  spoken  concerning  Zion 
and  this  glorious  land  >f  ours.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF 

Historical  incidents — Keys  of  power  from  Joseph  to 
the  Twelve— Founders  of  our  nation  Inspired — 
Afflictions  awaiting  the  world — Importance  of  re- 
deeming the  dead. 

At  the  close  of  this  Conference  I 
have  a  desire  to  bear  my  testimony 
before  you  upon  a  few  principles.  I 
have  rejoiced  very  much  during  this 
Conference  in  listening  to  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Apostles  and  Elders  who 
have  spoken.  It  has  brought  to  my 
remembrance  a  little  of  my  history. 


PRESIDEN1   WILFORD  WOODRUFF 


89 


In  April,  1838,  while  in  the  town  of 
Kirtland,  in  walking  across  the  street 
I  met  two  men  who  held  the  Apostle- 
ship.  They  said  to  me,  "Brother 
Woodruff,  we  have  something  that  we 
want  you  to  join  us  in."  Said  I,  "What 
is  it?"  "We  want  another  Prophet  to 
lead  us."  "Whom  do  you  want?" 
"We  want  Oliver  Cowdery.  Joseph 
Smith  has  apostatized."  After  listen- 
ing to  them,  I  said  to  them:  "Unless 
you  repent  of  your  sins  you  will  be 
damned  and  go  to  hell,  and  you  will 
go  through  the  fulness  of  eternal 
damnation,  and  all  your  hopes  in  this 
life  will  pass  before  you  like  the  frosi 
before  the  rising  sun.  You  are  false. 
Joseph  Smith  has  not  apostatized. 
He  holds  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth,  and  will  hold  them  until 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  whether 
in  this  world  or  in  the  world  to  come." 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  those  men  did 
repent  pretty  soon,  turned  to  the 
Church,  and  died  in  it. 

I  feel  thankful  today  that  Joseph  F. 
Smith  is  with  us  as  a  son  of  Hyrum 
Smith.  He  bears  a  true  and  faithful 
testimony  of  his  father.  I  would  to 
God  that  Joseph  Smith  had  a  son  in 
the  flesh  who  would  do  as  Joseph  F. 
Smith  does  here — bear  testimony  to 
the  truth  of  his  father.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  has  no  son  that  stands 
in  the  midst  of  the  Church  of  God  and 
bears  record  of  his  father.  He  never 
has  had;  possibly  never  will  have. 

I  will  give  you  a  testimony  here  that 
will  show  you  where  I  stand  with  re- 
gard to  this  matter.  Joseph  Smith 
never  ordained  his  son  Joseph,  never 
blessed  him,  never  set  him  apart,  to 
lead  this  Church  and  kingdom  on  the 
face  of  the  earth.  When  he  or  any 
other  man  says  he  did,  they  state  that 
which  is  false  before  high  heaven. 

The  last  speech  that  Joseph  Smith 
ever  made  to  the  quorum  of  the  Apos- 
tles was  in  a  building  in  Nauvoo,  and 
it  was  such  a  speech  as  I  never  heard 
from  mortal  man  before  or  since.  He 
was  clothed  upon  with  the  Spirit  and 
power  of  God.  His  face  was  clear 
as  amber.  The  room  was  filled  as 
with  consuming  fire.  He  stood  three 
hours  upon  his  feet.  Said  he:  "You 
Apostles  of  the  Lamb  of  God  hare 
been  chosen  to  carry  out  the  purposes 
of  the  Lord  on  the  earth.  Now,  I 
have  received,  as  the  Prophet,  seer  and 


revelator,  standing  at  the  head  of  this 
dispensation,  every  key,  every  or- 
dinance, every  principle  and  every 
Priesthood  that  belongs  to  the  last 
dispensation  and  fulness  of  times.  And 
I  have  sealed  all  these  things  upon 
your  heads.  Now,  you  Apostles,  if_ 
you  do  not  rise  up  and  bear  off  this 
kingdom,  as  I  have  given  it  to  you, 
you  will  be  damned." 

I  am  the  only  witness  left  on  earth 
that  can  bear  record  of  this,  and  I 
am  thankful  that  I  have  lived  to  see 
the  day  in  which  I  stand.  I  am  thank- 
ful to  see  the  sons  of  these  Prophets 
and  Apostles  holding  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood in  our  day  and  generation.  I  do 
not  believe  the  day  will  ever  come — 
it  is  too  late  in  the  day,  in  my  opinion 
—when  any  Elder  in  this  Church  will 
be  called  to  stand  before  any  two  of 
the  Apostles  with  us  today  and  give 
unto  them  the  declaration  that  I  gaAie 
unto  the  two  Apostles  I  have  referred 
to.  I  do  not  think  any  of  the  Apostles 
will  occupy  that  position.  I  have  faith 
to  believe  that  these  men  who  bear 
the  Apostleship  will  hold  it  and  live 
their  religion.  They  have  been  called 
and  ordained  of  God  for  this  purpose. 
I  do  not  think  that  one  of  them  will 
apostatize.  I  believe  they  will  be  with 
you  and  with  this  Church  while  they 
stand  in  the  flesh,  true  and  faithful 
to  God. 

Brother  Cannon  has  been  laying  be- 
fore you  something  with  regard  to  the 
nation  in  which  we  live  and  what  has 
been  said  concerning  it.  I  am  going 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  this  assembly, 
if  I  never  do  it  again  in  my  life,  that 
those  men  who  laid  the  foundation  of 
this  American  government  and  signed 
the  Declaration  of  Independence  were 
the  best  spirits  the  God  of  heaven 
could  find  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
They  were  choice  spirits,  not  wicked 
men.  General  Washington  and  all  the 
men  that  labored  for  the  purpose  were 
inspired  of  the  Lord. 

Another  thing  I  am  going  to  say 
here,  because  I  have  a  right  to  say  it. 
Every  one  of  those  men  that  signed 
the  Declaration  of  Independence,  with 
General  Washington,  called  upon  me, 
as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
in  the  Temple  at  St.  George,  two  con- 
secutive nights,  and  demanded  at  my 
hands  that  I  should  go  forth  and  at- 
tend to  the  ordinances  of  the  House  of 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  for  them.  Men  are  here,  I  believe, 
that  know  of  this,  Brothers  J.  D.  T. 
McAllister,  David  H.  Cannon  and 
James  G.  Bleak.  Brother  McAllister 
baptized  me  for  all  those  men,  and 
then  I  told  those  brethren  that  it  was 
their  duty  to  go  Into  the  Temple  and 
labor  until  they  had  got  endowments 
for  all  of  them.  They  did  it.  Would 
those  spirits  have  called  upon  me,  as 
an  Elder  in  Israel,  to  perform  that 
work  if  they  had  not  been  noble 
spirits  before  God?    They  would  not. 

I  bear  this  testimony,  because  it  is 
true.  The  Spirit  of  God  bore  record 
to  myself  and  the  brethren  while  we 
were  laboring  in  that  way. 

What  has  been  said  with  regard  to 
this  nation  and  to  our  position  is  com- 
ing to  pass.  All  the  powers  of  earth 
and  hell  will  not  stay  the  hand  of 
Almighty  God  in  the  fulfillment  of 
those  great  prophecies  that  have 
to  come  to  pass  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 
You  who  have  gathered  here  are  my 
witnesses  of  this.  I  feel  as  though  the 
day  has  come  when  every  Elder  and 
every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  stop 
and  consider  the  position  he  is  in  and 
the  covenants  he  has  entered  into.  Is 
there  anything  on  the  face  of  the  earth 
that  will  pay  you  to  depart  from  the 
oracles  of  God  and  from  the  Gospel  of 
Christ?  Is  there  anything  that  will 
pay  you  to  lose  the  principles  of  sal- 
vation, to  lose  a  part  in  the  first  resur- 
rection with  the  privilege  of  standing 
in  the  morning  of  the  resurrection 
clothed  with  glory,  immortality 
and  eternal  life  at  the  head  of 
your  father's  house?  No,  there  is 
nothing.  I  feel  sorry  many  times  when 
I  see  men  who  have  the  Priesthood 
forget  almost  that  they  have  any  in- 
terest in  the  work  of  God. 

I  feel  to  thank  God  that  I  have  lived 
as  long  as  I  have,  and  to  see  as  much 
as  I  have  in  fulfillment  of  the  words 
of  the  Prophet  of  God.  His  days  were 
few.  The  lives  of  great  men  have  been 
strange.  The  idea  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God,  only  laboring 
three  years  and  a  half  in  the  ministry 
and  then  He  was  put  to  death!  His 
apostles,  too,  were  put  to  death,  ex- 
cepting John  the  Revelator,  and  they 
would  have  killed  him  if  they  could 
have  done  so.  He  lived  because  God 
wanted  him  to  live.    We  live  in  the 


last  dispensation  and  in  the  midst  of 
the  great  work  that  all  the  Patriarchs 
and  Prophets  since  God  made  the 
world  have  spoken  of.  Afflictions  and 
tribulations  await  the  world.  The 
destroying  angels  have  got  their  sharp 
sickles  in  their  hands,  and  they  are 
going  to  reap  the  earth.  Everything 
that  has  been  spoken  by  the  prophets 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  will  come  to  pass  in  the  genera- 
tion in  which  we  live.  Do  not  forget 
it.  I  thank  God  we  are  as  well  as  we 
are;  that  we  have  as  many  as  we  have 
who  are  united  together  in  the  Priest- 
hood. Let  us  try  to  live  our  religion, 
do  our  duty,  and  magnify  our  calling 
while  we  are  here.  The  eyes  of  all 
heaven  are  over  us.  The  eyes  of  the 
world  are  over  us.  The  eyes  of  the 
angels  are  over  us.  The  Lord  has 
looked  upon  us  and  upon  the  house  of 
Israel  to  be  saviors  of  the  nations. 
We  are  here  to  fulfill  these  principles. 

I  pray  God  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  as  Elders  of  Israel  and  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  we  may  prize  these 
principles,  and  that  we  may  do  oui 
duty  what  time  we  spend  here  in  the 
flesh.  These  Apostles  and  all  the 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood  have  a 
great  work  upon  them.  Every  father, 
and  mother  has  a  great  responsibility 
resting  upon  them,  to  redeem  their 
dead.  Do  not  neglect  it.  You  will 
have  sorrow  if  you  do.  Any  man  will 
who  neglects  the  redemption  of  his 
dead  that  he  has  power  to  officiate  for 
here.  When  you  get  to  the  other  side 
of  the  veil,  if  you  have  entered  into 
these  Temples  and  redeemed  you  pro- 
genitors by  the  ordinances  of  the 
House  of  God,  you  will  hold  the  keys 
of  their  redemption  from  eternity  to 
eternity.  Do  not  neglect  this!  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

The  anthem, 
God  of  Israel,  hear  our  prayer, 
was  sung  by  the  choir. 

Benediction  by  Elder  C.  W.  Penrose. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking 
the  account  of  the  proceedings  wa^ 
done  by  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Annual  General  Conference. 


Minutes  of  Annual  Sunday  School 
Conference  held  in  the  Tabernacle, Salt 
Lake  City,  Sunday  evening,  April  10, 
189c',  at  7  p.  m. 

The  General  Superintendency,  Mem- 
bers and  Aids  of  the  Union  Board, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  several 
Apostles,  a  large  number  of  Stake  and 
Ward  Officers  and  Sunday  School 
workers  were  present. 

The  choir,  under  the  direction  of 
Prof.  Evan  Stephens,  sang: 

Great  God  attend  while  Zion  sings. 

Prayer  was  offerel  by  LM"r  Andrew 
Kimball. 

The  choir  sang:  Lord,  Thou  wilt 
hear  me  when  I  pray.  Elder 
Seymour  B.  Young  called  the 
roll,  which  was  responded  to  by 
twenty-nine  out  of  the  thirty-seven 
Stakes.  He  also  presented  the  Gen- 
eral Sunday  School  Authorities,  who 
were  unanimously  sustained  as  fol- 
lows: 

George  Q.  Cannon,  general  superin- 
tendent; George  Goddard  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Karl  G.  Mae- 
ser,  second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent; George  Reynolds,  general 
treasurer. 

As  members  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board:  George  Q.  Can- 
non, George  Goddard,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C.  Griggs, 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W. 
Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon  and  An- 
drew Kimball. 

As  aids  of  the  board:  L.  John  Nut- 
tall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett, 
John  M.  Mills,  W.  B.  Dougall.  W.  D. 
Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young  and  C.  D. 
Fjeldsted. 


FIRST   ASSISTANT   GENERAL  SU- 
PERINTENDENT GEORGE 
GODDARD 

requested  all  Sunday  school  teachers 
and  Sunday  school  children  present  to 
rise  to  their  feet.  In  response  to 
this  request  almost  the  entire  vast 
congregation  arose. 

FIRST  ASSISTANT  SUPERINTEND- 
ENT GEORGE  GODDARD 
then  said.  It  is  very  pleasing  to  see 
so  many  that  are  interested  in  the 
youth  of  Zion.  You  may  have  noticed 
that  when  Brother  Seymour  B.  Young 
called  the  names  of  the  thirty-seven 
Stakes  of  Zion,  representatives  of  all 
responded  with  the  exception  of  eight. 

During  the  last  year  annual  Sunday 
school  conferences  have  been  held  in 
every  one  of  those  Stakes,  and  at  each 
of  these  conferences  one  or  more  of 
the  members  of  the  general  board 
have  had  the  privilege  of  being  pres- 
ent. 

It  is  very  gratifying,  and  I,  for  one, 
felt  extremely  grateful  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  while  listening  to  the  statistics 
that  were  read  the  other  day.  Dur- 
ing the  last  year  we  have  had  an  in- 
crease of  165  Sunday  schools,  and  of 
between  five  and  six  thousand  Sunday 
school  children.  These  are  very  en- 
couraging facts. 

In  these  annual  conferences  there  is 
one  subject  that  we  seldom  forget  to 
speak  about,  it  is  to  train  our  chil- 
dren in  concert  singing  in  the  Sunday 
schools;  to  teach  them  to  sing  and 
take  part  in  the  praises  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father.  And,  in  connection  with 
that  subject,  I  have  been  led  to  recom- 
mend that  the  fathers  and  the  mothers 
bring  their  hymn  books  with  them 
when  they  come  to  our  religious  as- 
semblies.     Who  is  expected  to  take 


92 


ni:si:i<i:r  sun  day  school  union. 


part  In  the  Blnglng?  All  the  Latter- 
duy  Saints  have  the  privilege  of  Join- 
ing In  the  song.  It  Is  good  to  have 
choirs  to  keep  up  the  tone  of  the  song 
and  to  lead;  but  to  enjoy  the  singing, 
If  you  cannot  sing  without  making 
discord,  you  must  follow  and  take  note 
of  what  Is  being  sung  and  enjoy  the 
principle  or  the  doctrine  that  is  con- 
tained In  that  song  In  our  prayers 
one  person  speaks,  all  the  rest  close 
their  eyes  and  open  their  ears  and 
when  the  prayer  is  ended  for  a  re- 
sponse, they  say  amen. 

Our  Sunday  school  institution  is  a 
very  elaborate  one.  The  grand  object 
and  chief  aim  of  our  Sunday  school 
efforts  are  to  train  up  our  children  to 
become  Latter-day  Saints;  that  when 
they  grow  up  they  may  show  by  their 
daily  example  that  they  have  been 
taught  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
and  that  they  have  been  trained  to 
true  religious  habits. 

There  are  two  grand  principles  that 
have  been  especially  spoken  upon 
during  this  conference.  Since  1852  it 
has  been  my  privilege  to  attend 
eighty-five  conferences  in  this  city, 
and  I  feel  that  the  one  that  has  just 
terminated  has  been  better  than  any 
conference  hitherto  held.  And  I  am 
going  to  prophesy  about  this  confer- 
ence. There  will  be  more  tithe  payers, 
resulting  from  the  instructions  given 
at  this  conference,  than  there  has  ever 
been  from  any  previous  conference. 
More  will  go  away  from  this  confer- 
ence and  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
than  have  ever  left  any  previous  con- 
ference. The  Saints  are  improving. 
The  object  of  our  conferences  is  to 
make  better  Saints  than  we  have 
been,  and  to  remind  us  of  the  duties 
that  we  must  henceforth  more  rigidly 
observe. 

Many  subjects  have  yet  to  be  treated 
upon  in  relation  to  our  Sunday  schools. 
But  I  feel  grateful  to  acknowledge  the 
hand  of  my  Heavenly  Father  that  has 
been  over  us  in  this  direction.  God 
bless  the  superintendents,  the  teachers 
and  the  children  connected  with  our 
schools. 

We  are  waiting,  anxiously  waiting, 
for  the  superintendent  of  some  Stake 
of  Zion  to  send  word  to  headquarters 
that  not  only  the  superintendents  but 
all  the  teachers  and  children,  that  ar.e 
old  enough  to    learn    anything,  are 


strict  observers  of  the  law  of  tithing 
and  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Superin- 
tendents, will  you  kindly  labor  to  this 
end  .that  we  may  show  forth  the 
fruits  of  our  labors,  scattered  through 
the  Stakes  of  Zion.  And  that  this  may 
be  the  case,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  LARS  E.  EGGERTSEN, 

superintendent  of  Utah  Stake,  said: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  the 
pleasure  this  evening  of  representing 
the  Stake  superintendencies  of  Zion. 
My  remarks  will  be  specially  addressed 
to  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  Goddard. 

Brother  George  Goddard,  this  occa- 
casion,  with  permission,  has  been  se- 
lected by  the  Stake  superintendencies 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  Zion  as  a 
fitting  occasion  to  express  to  you  our 
esteem  for  the  untiring  efforts  with 
which  you  have  labored  in  the  Sunday 
school  cause,  for  holding  up  before  us, 
both  in  precept  and  example,  that  en- 
sign of  the  millennium — the  Word  of 
Wisdom;  for  showing  to  us  what  a 
complete  and  consecrated  devotion  to 
a  noble  cause  means.  Accept,  there- 
fore, our  appreciation  of  your  wise 
counsel;  our  love  by  reason  of  your 
solcitude  in  our  behalf;  our  determi- 
nation to  be  true  to  the  principles 
that  have  caused  you  to  be  so  devoted- 
ly interested  in  bringing  God's  chil- 
dren near  to  Him.  We  say  with  the 
poet: 

"Master,  go  on,  and  I  will  follow  Thee 
To  the    last    gasp,  with    truth  and 
loyalty." 

We  thank  God  for  one  whose  life  has 
exemplified  Christ's  teaching,  "Let 
your  light  so  shine  before  men  that 
they  may  see  your  good  works  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."  Accept  the  veneration 
which  we  would  offer  to  one  who  has 
had  an  unfaltering  faith  in  God's 
laws;  the  reverence  we  feel  for  one 
whose  life  has  been  unselfish. 

"He  who  strives  the  world  to  lift  and 

save 

By  deeds  of  sweet  self-sacrifice 
And  noble  Christian  love, 
Will  find  e'en  though  he  seek  an  early 
grave, 

His  image,  pure  as  morning  skies 
Reflected  there  above." 

Among  the  number  who  do  you  honor, 
some  are  crowned  with  hairs  of  silver 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


93 


and  are  named  among  the  first  in  the 
great  Sunday  school  cause  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  There  are  those,  who, 
for  many  years,  have  borne  the  heat 
of  much  anxiety.  And  there  are  those 
who  first  knew  you,  when  as  little 
children,  they  heard  your  voice  in 
melody  sing,  "Who's  on  the  Lord's  side, 
who?" 

Tonight,  Brother  Goddard.we  united- 
ly ask  you  to  accept  a  token,  and  to 
permit  us,  by  the  hand  of  one  of  Zion's 
fair  daughters,  to  place  upon  your 
breast  this  medal,  inscribed  as  follows: 
"To  George  Goddard,  April  10th,  1898. 
Who'se  on  the  Lord's  side,  who?  From 
Zion's  Sunday  School  Stake  Superin- 
tendencies,  representing  37  Stakes,  630 
Schools,  10,429  officers  and  teachers 
and  88,497  pupils."  And  at  the  same 
time  we  assure  you  by  this  token  that 
we  shall  ever  strive  to  follow  your 
precepts  and  emulate  your  worthy  ex- 
ample. We  also  ask  you  to  accept 
this  purse,  the  contents  of  which  you 
are  to  use  in  the  manner  that  will  give 
you  the  most  joy. 

Sister  Alice  McLachlan  then  pinned 
the  gold  clasp  and  medal  on  Brother 
Goddard's  bosom,  and  the  purse  con- 
taining $100  was  handed  him. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  and  congrega- 
tion sang  "Who'se  on  the  Lord's  side, 
who  ?." 

To  Elder  George  Goddard,  First  As- 
sistant General  Superintendent 
Latter-day  Saints'  Sunday  Schools, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah: 

Dear  Brother: — In  connection  with 
the  medal  and  purse  presented  to  you 
by  the  various  Stake  superintendencies 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  Zion,  it  may 
not  be  improper  to  give  you  a  brief  out- 
line of  the  movement  from  its  incep- 
tion, and  it  is  with  that  object  in  view 
that  this  sketch  is  written. 

Let  us  say  by  way  of  introduction 
that  this  movement  has  been  in  mind 
for  two  years,  but  the  method  of  pro- 
cedure was  not  definitely  settled  until 
the  beginnig  of  the  present  year.  Since 
the  idea  first  presented  itself,  several 
of  the  Stake  Sunday  school  superin- 
tendents were  consulted,  and  each  one 
expressed  himself  in  favorable  terms, 
and  pledged  co-operation  in  whatever 
might  be  undertaken. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Utah  Stake 
superintendency     in  January,  1898  ,  a 


formal  motion  was  carried,  that  a 
letter  be  written  to  each  Stake  super- 
intendent, explaining  the  matter,  and 
asking  for  $1,  and  for  suggestions  as 
to  what  would  be  suitable  for  a  pres- 
ent, and  best  express  to  you  the  feel- 
lings  of  the  Sunday  school  workers. 

To  this  letter  came  a  hearty  response 
from  nearly  all  of  the  Stakes,  some 
giving  one  suggestion,  some  another; 
a  number  felt  that  the  amount  pro- 
posed was  entirely  inadequate.  Those 
who  did  not  make  any  suggestion  left 
the  matter  with  the  Utah  Stake  officers 
to  select  whatever  they  thought  proper. 
Among  the  letters  most  ardently  ad- 
vocating that  more  should  be  done 
than  was  at  first  intended,  was  that 
of  the  superintendency  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Stake,  these  brethren  being 
really  the  fathers  of  the  idea  which 
has  now  taken  bodily  shape — that  the 
present  to  you  be  a  medal  and  a  purse. 
It  was  acted  upon,  a  report  was  made 
to  the  various  Stake  officers,  and 
again  encouragement  in  the  labor  of 
love  was  given.  Almost  every  letter 
has  had  words  something  like  the  fol- 
lowing: 

"I  heartily  concur  in  the  idea  of 
making  a  present  to  Superintendent 
George  Goddard,  who  has  labored  so 
long  and  so  faithfully  in  behalf  of 
the  Sunday  schools  of  Zion,  and  think 
that  too  much  cannot  be  done  for  him. 
Enclosed  you  will  find  a  postoffice  or- 
der and  if  you  need  more,  let  us 
know." 

Not  only  did  the  Stake  officers  re- 
spond to  the  suggestion,  but  private 
parties  who  heard  of  the  affair  inci- 
dentally, desired  and  asked  for  the 
privilege  of  contributing  for  the  pur- 
pose of  showing  the  esteem  in  which 
you  are  held  by  all  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Arrangements  were  made  with  your 
co-laborers  in  the  general  superin- 
tendency, Brothers  George  Q.  Cannon 
and  Karl  G.  Maeser,  to  have  the  pre- 
sentation made  at  the  regular  Deseret 
Sunday  school  conference  on  the  even- 
ing of  April  10,  1898,  and  a  short  pro- 
gram was  arranged  with  their  consent 
and  approval. 

The  letters  relating  to  the  affair  have 
been  carefully  filed  and  will  be  pre- 
served for  future  reference;  they  form 
a  portion  of  the  history  of  what  was, 
up  to  the  present  time,  perhaps,  the 


94 


P i.SI'.R  I:  T  Sf  NDA  }   SCHOOL  UNION. 


largest  surprise  party  in  the  history 
of  the  world. 

And  now,  dear  brother,  in  behalf  of 
all  the  Sunday  schools  of  Zlon,  per- 
mit us  to  congratulate  you  upon  the 
work  you  have  done,  a  general  sum- 
mary of  whkh  you  have  compiled  as 
follows: 

"Fourteen  months'  mission  to  Cana- 
da, by  hand-cart  to  Missouri  river,  in 
1857  and  1858. 

"Three  years  gathering  rags  for 
paper,  1861-62-63,  as  a  mission. 

"  Nine  years  superintendent  Thir- 
teenth ward  Sunday  schools,  from  1867 
to  1876. 

"Nine  years  superintendent  Salt 
Lake  Stake  Sunday  school,  from  1873 
to  1882. 

"Twenty-seven  years  clerk  to  Pre- 
siding Bishop  Edward  Hunter,  from 
1856  to  1883. 

"Twenty-five  years  first  assistant 
general  superintendent  of  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union,  from  1872. 

"Ten  years  clerk  of  general  confer- 
ence, from  1874  to  1884. 

"Four  years  clerk  of  the  School  of  the 
Prophets. 

"Three  years  clerk  and  treasurer  to 
the  Salt  Lake  Assembly  Hall,  from 
1877  to  1S80. 

"Twenty  years  Teacher  in  Thlrtenth 
ward. 

"Twenty  years  member  of  Taber- 
nacle choir. 

"Twenty-five  years  member  Thir- 
teenth ward  choir. 

"Twenty-two  years  member  of  the 
Old  Folks'  committee  from  1875. 

"Paid  in  tithing,  temple  and  fast 
offerings  over  $12,000,  or  an  average  of 
$270  a  year  for  over  forty-four  years. 

"During  the  past  forty-four  years,  I 
have  missed  very  few  ward  meetings, 
Tabernacle,  quorum,  and  fast  meet- 
ings. 

"I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  being 
present  at  over  eighty  of  our  general 
conferences  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  at- 
tending nearly  every  meeting  at  each 
conference. 

"I  am  now  between  81  and  82  years 
old,  and  during  the  past  three  years, 
have  traveled  between  twenty  and 
thirty  thousand  miles  in  the  interest 
and  for  the  benefit  of  the  youth  of 
Zion  who  are  connected  with  our  Sun- 
day schools. 


"I  use  neither  tea,  coffee,  tobacco, 
wine,  beer,  or  liquor,  and  I  am  blest 
of  the  Lord  with  good  health,  which 
causes  my  heart  to  rejoice  exceed- 
ingly." 

We  ask  God  to  spare  your  life  until 
you  are  entirely  satisfied.  We  know 
that  so  long  as  any  one  of  the  thou- 
sands of  children  shall  be  alive,  who 
have  heard  your  voice  in  songs  of 
prayer  and  praise,  and  in  exhortation, 
you  will  not  be  forgotten;  and  after 
all  the  present  generation  shall  pass 
away,  your  labors  will  be  read  of  by 
the  Saints,  and  encouragement  will  be 
occasioned  in  the  hearts  of  the  faith- 
ful, who  cannot  but  know  of  some  of 
the  difficulties  which  you  have  over- 
come by  your  persistent  and  untiring 
efforts  to  advance  the  interests  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth. 

Your  brethren  in  the  Sunday  school 
cause,  and  in  behalf  of  the  Stake 
superntendencies, 

LARS  E.  EGGERTSEN, 
ALFRED  L.  BOOTH, 
WM.    S.  RAWLINS. 

E.  H.  HOLT,  Sec'y  Utah  Stake. 

Father  reverend  and  friend  beloved, 
And  brother,  true  through  many  years: 
Reap  here  tonight,  a  little  sheaf 
From  seeds  thous't  sown  in  smiles  and 
tears. 

Reap  from  our  o'er  laden  hearts 
A  mite  of  what  thous't  scattered  there — 
In  "Seeds  of  Kindness:"  let  thy  song 
Prove    its    own    worth:  its  truth  de- 
clare. 

Our  good  absorbs  the  very  life: 
Thine  every    thought    our  constant 

weal: 

What  pleasure,  in  return,  for  us, 
To  feebly  show  the  love  we  feel. 
No,  not  in  vain  thine  earnest  word — 
Thy  noble  voice  in  song  and  prayer: 
The  youth  throughout  the  land  have 
heard 

And  pondered  o'er  their    sense  most 
rare. 

And  many  a  valiant  hero  brave 
Stands  "On  the    Lord's    Side"  firm 

today; 

Who  but  for    thee  might  still  have 

been 

But  loitering,  heedless,  on  the  way. 
Give  us  the  joy  with  thee  to  feel 
That  love  to  love  may  here  express 
Its  very  self  in  gratitude; 
For  loving  deeds  and  power  to  bless. 
pow  blest  thou. art  in  ripened  age; 
How  blest  to  work  while  life  shall  last; 
In  deeds  of  good  still  be  thou  blest 
Forever  more,  as  in  the  past. 

To  Brother  George  Goddard,  from 
Evan  Stephens. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


95 


GENERAL,  SUPERINTENDENT 
GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 

said.       To    me    this    is    an  unusu- 
ally    interesting     occasion;      and  I 
am    sure    every    heart    present  re- 
joices   exceedingly     in     this  oppor- 
tunity    of     expressing     the  feelings 
that  we  all  have  towards  Elder  George 
Goddard.      There    has    nothing  been 
said  here  that  he  has    not  deserved. 
There  is  no  eulogy  that  has  been  pro- 
nounced that  is  unmerited.  Brother 
George  Goddard  has  been  especially 
endowed  in  this  direction.     His  labors 
have  been  indefatigable.      And  none 
who  have  known  his  course  can  feel 
otherwise  than  that  this  testimonial  is 
well  deserved.  I  thought,  while  Brother 
Eggertson  was  describing  the  feelings 
which  prompted  and  speaking  of  the 
testimonial,  that  there  is  another  oc- 
casion— I  hope  that  it  is  some  distance 
off,  that  is  if  it  involves  the  life  of  our 
beloved  brother — an  occasion  when  he 
will  be  crowned  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  the  Lamb.      That  time  will  come 
and  we    shall    witness    it;  because 
George  Goddard,  as  I  fully  believe,  will 
be  faithful  to  the  end,  and  will  earn 
a  crown  of  glory  in  the  presence  of  God 
and   the  Lamb.      That  he     may  be 
blessed  during  the  remainder  of  his 
life,  that  he  may  have  physical  vigor — 
you  all  know  that  his  voice  has  been 
prserved;  I  trust  it  will  be  while  he 
shall  live — physical  vigor  to  go,  as  he 
delights  in  going,  to  visit  the  various 
conferences  of  the  Church  in  the  vari- 
ous Stakes  of  Zion,  until  the  Lord  shall 
be  fully  satisfied  with  his  labors,  and 
he  himself  feel  that  he  has  completed 
the  work    assigned    to    him  below, 
which  is  my  prayer  in  his  behalf,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

I  dislike  to  change  the  course  of 
pleasure  and  joy  that  we  have  tasted 
because  of  this  movement  in  favor  of 
Elder  Goddard.  I  have  been  on  his 
track  for  a  great  many  years  and  I 
have  never  found  a  person  disposed  to 
speak  otherwise  than  to  this  great  cred- 
it and  honor.  He  lives  in  the  hearts  of 
all  the  Saints,  the  children  and  their 
parents  and  everybody.  And  I  wonder 
why  we  shall  not  emulate  the  great 
example  that  he  has  set  before  us.  1 
trust  we  may,  and  that  when  we  have 


come  to  the  weight  of  years  that  he  is 
under  tonight,  that  good  things  can  be 
said  of  us,  and  that  we  too  may  live 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people  because  of 
our  many  years  of  faithful  labor. 

I  desire  to  speak  a  few  words  to  you 
in  regard  to  the  subject  of  presiding 
in  the  Sunday  schools,  that  is  by  the 
superintendents.    We  have  noticed  oc- 
casionally that  the  superintendent  of 
a  Sunday  school  is  inclined  to  be  so 
generous  that  he  divides  up  the  honor 
of  presiding  with  his  assistants,  when 
he  is  present  himself.    And  I  wonder 
sometimes  if  the  brethren  have  not 
taken  from  what  they  have  seen,  or 
what  appears  before  us,  in  presiding  in 
the    general    conferences    and  other 
places,  that  the  duty  of  a  president  or 
a  superintendent    is  intended    to  be 
shared  and  divided,  so  that  one  may 
be  president  on  one  ocasion  and  his  as- 
sistant or  counselor  upon  another.  1 
believe  that  the  proper  way  is  for  the 
superintendent  to  preside,  when  he  is 
present,  and  to  direct  all  the  affairs  of 
the  Sunday  schools  as  a  superintendent 
or  president  should  do.    So  that  visit- 
ing a  Sunday  school  you  may  know 
who   the    superintendent    is,  or  know 
who  the  presiding  person  is  in  that 
school.  It  is  the  duty  of  a  president  or 
superintendent  to  preside  when  present; 
when  he  is  absent  it  is  the  business 
of  his  first  assistant  or  counselor;  and 
in  the  absence  of  the  superintendent 
and  the  first  assistant  it  is  the  duty  of 
the  second    assistant.    But    the  man 
whose  duty  it  is  to  preside  cannot  lay 
off     that     responsibility;     it     is  his 
business  to  exercise  it;   not  that  he 
should  do  all  that  is  to  be  done,  but 
what  is  done  should  be  under  his  presi- 
dency and  direction,  when  present.  We 
notice  here  in  our  general  conference 
that  President  Cannon  and  President 
Smith  are  called  upon  to  present  tht 
business  before  the  conference,  just  as 
President  S.  B.  Toung  here  acting  as 
the  clerk,  calls  the  roll  and  presents  the 
authorities    of    the    Sunday  school. 
Brother  Goddard,  as  the  first  assistant 
superintendent,  here,  does   his  talking 
and  often  the  work  as  general  superin- 
tendent.   But  in  the  presence  of  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  George  Q.  Cannon, 
who  is  the  head  and  who  is  the  chief, 
everything  is  conducted  here  just  as  he 
directs.   I  have  noticed  that  Bishops  as 
well  in  their  council  and  ward  meeting* 


96 


DESE RET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


and  presidents  of  Stakes  also,  some- 
times surrender  their  meetings  to  the 
counselors  Instead  of  the  chief  or  pres- 
ident attending  to  the  business  of  pre- 
siding. My  view  of  this  Is,  In  order  to 
avoid  confusion,  that  the  chief  or  presi- 
dent who  is  called  to  preside  is  en- 
titled to  the  presiding  Inspiration  ot 
the  occasion,  and  that  the  presiding  in- 
spiration rests  upon  his  first  assistant 
in  the  absence  of  the  superintendent 
or  president.  But  otherwise  conducted 
we  find  it  produces  confusion.  I  want- 
ed to  make  this  suggestion.  I  have  one 
more  word  to  say  and  then  I  will  finish. 
The  time  is  precious. 

I  have  noticed  in  my  travels  through- 
out the  Church  that  the  Sunday  schools 
and  the  parents  of  the  Sunday  school 
children  are  not  patronizing  the  organ 
of  the  Sunday  schools  as  it  ought  to 
be  patronized.  They  are  not  failing 
on  every  occasion,  for  there  are  many 
wards  where  the  Juvenile  Instructor  is 
well  sustained,  but  we  find  very  many 
wards  where  it  is  not  sustained  as  it 
ought  to  be.  It  should  be  in  every  fam- 
ily; it  should  be  in  the  homes  of  the 
people.  It  is  worthy  of  the  patronage 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  want 
to  see  it  patronized  and  encouraged  by 
the  Church.  It  is  suited  to  the  parents, 
it  is  suited  to  the  children  and  all  ages; 
it  is  an  authority,  it  speaks  with  the 
voice  of  authority  unto  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  ought  to  be  thoroughly  well 
patronized  by  all  the  people. 

God  bless  you  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. Workers  in  the  Sunday  schools, 
do  not  weary,  but  live  to  win  the  same 
kind  of  crown  which  President  Cannon 
says  shall  be  placed  upon  the  brow  of 
Elder  Goddard  and  if  you  desire  such 
a  name,  win  it  for  yourself  by  follow- 
ing the  footsteps  of  that  great  man  in 
the  Sunday  school  cause.  Amen. 

SECOND    ASSISTANT    KARL  G. 
MAESER 

said.  It  will  be  scarcely  necessary  on  my 
part  to  say  with  how  much  of  my 
whole  heart  I  rejoice  in  what  we  have 
witnessed  in  honor  of  our  fellow-labor- 
er, Brother  Goddard.  And  I  add  my 
prayer  and  blessing  to  what  has  been 
said  and  done  in  his  behalf  on  the  pres- 
ent occasion. 

The  subject  that  has  been  assigned 
me  to  speak  on  for  a  few  minutes  Is 


the  way  and  manner  in  which  annual 
Sunday  School  Stake  conferences 
should  be  conducted.  According  to  the 
view  of  the  Sunday  School  Union 
Board,  all  the  exercises  of  our  annual 
Stake  conferences  should  be  patterns 
and  models  for  everything  that  is  done 
in  the  Sunday  schools;  so  that  when 
the  superintendents,  teachers,  officers 
and  pupils  of  the  various  Sunday 
schools  of  the  Stake  return 
home  they  can  say,  "That  is 
the  way  it  was  done  at  con- 
ference, and  that  is  the  way  it  should 
be  done  in  our  Sunday  school."  This 
means  in  regard  to  the  discipline,  seat- 
ing, good  order  and  also  in  the  carry- 
ing out  of  the  program.  The  singing 
also  should  be  a  pattern.  There  3hould 
be  two  or  three  choirs,  the  best  that  can 
be  found  in  the  Stake,  to  perform  the 
singing,  so  that  the  Sunday  schools  of 
the  Stake  may  have  something  on  that 
point  as  a  pattern  and  model  to  fol- 
low after.  The  marching  to  the  various 
classes,  the  recitation  of  the  classes 
that  have  exercises,  should  be  done  in 
such  a  beautiful,  well  trained  way,  that 
all  the  other  Sunday  schools  can  take 
pattern  and  follow  them. 

There  has  been,  to  the  sorrow  and  re- 
gret of  the  members  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  Board,  here  and  there 
among  the  conferences,  a  failure  in  re- 
gard to  these  matters.  Programs  have 
been  made  but  they  were  not  carried 
out.  I  remember  in  two  or  three  in- 
stances during  my  last  visit  in  the 
South,  that  a  thorough  program,  very 
neatly  laid  out,  was  presented  to  me, 
but  when  it  came  to  its  execution 
there  was  nobody  to  respond.  The  su- 
perintendent was  full  of  excuses.  This 
is  not  a  pattern  or  model.  There  Is 
sufficient  time  given  to  all  the  super- 
intendents to  have  the  necessary  ar- 
rangements made  previous  to  the  Sun- 
day school  conferences;  so  that  when 
the  teachers,  superintendents  and  rep- 
resentatives of  the  various  Sunday 
schools  gather  together  they  may  see 
something  that  serves  them  as  a  guide 
in  their  labors.  Every  Sunday  school 
conference  should  be  a  stepping  stone 
and  an  improvement  upon  the  one  that 
has  been  held  the  year  before;  so  that 
when  the  members  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  Board  come  around  they 
can  notice  the  progress,  not  only  by  the 
reports  that  are  made  by  the  superin- 


DESEkEl  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


97 


tendents,  but  also  by  the  various  exer- 
cises that  constitute  the  program  of  the 
conference  during  the  Saturday's  and 
Sunday's  exercises.  The  Sunday  School 
Union  Board  desire  that  the  superin- 
tendents and  officers  of  the  Sunday 
schools  will  act  on  this  matter,  that 
from  now  on  we  shall  notice  in  our  vari- 
ous visits  a  marked  improvement  in 
this  direction. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  circumstance 
that  I  wish  to  relate.  A  large  court 
room  was  filled  with  judge,  jury  and 
spectators.  An  interesting  trial  was  on, 
a  woman  being  accused  of  un-Chris- 
tian-like  conduct  by  a  drunken  hus- 
band. In  the  accusation  it  was  said  that 
she  was  not  a  proper  person  to  rear  her 
children.  When  the  accusation  was 
read  by  the  clerk,  the  judge  turned  to 
the  accused  and  said  to  her,  "Madam, 
what  have  you  to  say  to  the  charges?" 
She  said  in  reply,  "May  it  please  your 
honor,  I  have  taught  my  children  to 
the  best  of  my  ability  to  be  honest, 
God-fearing  and  sober,  good  children." 
There  was  one  of  her  little  girls,  four 
years  of  age,  sitting  upon  one  of  the 
high  stools  in  the  court  room  at  the 
mother's  side.  The  judge  said,  "Madam, 
I  will  prove  you  "  and  so  said  to  the 
little  girl,  "What  is  your  name?"  She 
said,  "My  name  is  Mary."  "Mary," 
said  the  judge,  "Can  you  pray?"  With- 
out any  answer,  the  little  child  climbed 
from  the  high  stool,  knelt  down  upon 
the  floor  of  the  dirty  court  room  and 
lifted  her  little  eyes  to  heaven  and 
clasping  her  hands  repeated,  without 
one  stop  or  break,  the  i-iord's  prayer. 
When  she  had  closed  the  prayer  and 
said  amen,  every  heart  in  that  room 
was  melted  and  every  eye  filled  with 
tears.  "Gentlemen  of  the  jury,"  said 
the  judge,  "I  instruct  you  to  give  your 
verdict  in  favor  of  this  woman,  for  a 
mother  who  can  so  teach  her  children 
in  the  way  of  true  Christianity  is  in- 
deed a  proper  person  to  rear  those 
children,  and  they  should  be  left  in  her 
charge." 

I  relate  this,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  impress  upon  your  minds  the 
wonderful  power  for  good  that  can 
be  made  and  impressed  forever  upon 
the  hearts  of  our  little  children  in 
these  wonderful  Sunday  schools  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  where  they  are  be- 


ing taught  and  made  acquainted  with 
these  noble  principles,  not  only  of  the 
Lord's  prayer,  but  of  living  its  pre- 
cepts and  the  wonderful  example  that 
is  contained  within  its  tones  and  utter- 
ances. 

In  relation  to  our  friend,  Brother 
George  Goddard,  I  will  quote:  "If  I 
should  die  tonight  you  would  drop  a 
tear  on  my  pale,  cold  brow  and  say 
good  things  about  me.  O,  do  not  wait 
till  I  am  dead,  let  me  hear  those  good 
things  now,  and  let  me  feel,  while  the 
heart's  warm  blood  is  coursing  through 
my  veins,  that  I  have  gained  love  and 
esteem  from  those  I  love  best."  I  am 
glad  that  we  did  not  wait  until  Brother 
Goddard  was  dead  before  we  showed 
him  our  love  and  something  of  our  ap- 
preciation for  his  noble  life  work. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS" 

said.  As  treasurer  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  Board  I  wish  to  report 
that  I  have  received  from  the  various 
Stakes  on  Nickel  Fund  account  for 
1897,  $2,860. 

This  is  in  excess  of  the  collections 
of  previous  years.  But  I  will  say  that 
during  the  same  period  the  Union  haa 
distributed  in  literature — charts,  leaf- 
lets, and  books,  to  the  different  Stakes 
and  to  the  various  missions  of  the 
Church  more  than  this  amount  by  sev- 
eral hundred  dollars.  And  I  would 
ask  if  the  Stake  treasurers  have  any 
means  on  hand  that  they  will  kindly 
send  it  to  me  as  soon  as  possible  so 
that  I  may  close  this  account  on  my 
books. 

I  will  now  read  the  suggested  dates — 
Saturdays  and  Sundays — on  which  the 
forthcoming  annual  Stake  Sunday, 
school  cnferences  will  be  held: 

April  30th  and  May  1st,  Sanpete 
(Manti);  May  7th  and  8th,  St. 
George;  14th  and  15th,  Parowan;  21st 
and  22nd,  Millard;  28th  and  29th,  Juab; 
June  11th  and  12th,  Utah;  18th  and  19th, 
Wasatch;  25th  and  26th,  Malad;  July 
2nd  and  3rd,  Wayne;  9th  and  10th, 
Sevier — Bear  Lake;  16th  and  17th, 
Morgan— Star  Valley;  23rd  and  24th, 
Bingham;  30th  and  31st,  Bannock; 
August  6th  and  7th,  Alberta;  13th  and 
14th,  Boxelder— Cassia;  20th  and  21st, 
Cache — San  Juan;  27th  and  28th, 
Tooele;  September  10th  and  11th, Sum- 
mit— Beaver(Adamsville) ;  17th  and  18th;. 


98 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Oneida— Kanab;  24th  and  25th,  Weber 
— Panguitch. 

Should  a  Stake  superintendency  wish 
to  change  its  dates,  they  may  submit 
their  wishes  to  the  General  Board  and 
if  possible  they  will  be  complied  with. 

We  have  Just  received  from  the 
publisheres  No.  4  of  our  Bible  Charts. 
It  is  a  very  admirable  collection, 
treating  on  incidents  connected  with 
the  life  of  our  Savior  and  His  Apos- 
tles. These  charts  are  now  on  sale 
at  the  office  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  in  the  Templeton  building. 

I  wish  now  to  draw  the  attention  of 
those  superintendents  and  teachers 
who  use  the  leaflets  that  this  month 
a  change  is  made  from  the  Bible  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  For  many  months  past 
our  leaflets  have  been  devoted  to  Bible 
subjects,  and  having  considered  the 
ten  commandments  it  was  thought  a 
good  place  to  turn  from  the  Bible  for 
a  time  and  resume  Book  of  Mormon 
history,  which  has  been  taken  up  at 
the  point  wliere  the  last  leaflet  on  that 
subject  closed.  Studies  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon  will  probably  be  continued 
•during  the  whole  of  the  present  year. 

On  the  back  of  miniature  card  No. 
12,  accompanying  No.  2  Book  of  Mor- 
mon Chart  is  what  appears  to  be  an 
error  in  the  lesson  statement  and  in  the 
questions  and  answers.  The  picture 
on  the  card  represents  the  baptism  of 
King  Limhi  by  the  Prophet  Alma.  In 
this  lesson  it  Is  stated  that  Alma  and 
his  people  reached  the  land  of  Zara- 
hemla  from  the  land  of  Lehi-Nephi  be- 
fore Limhi  and  his  people  did.  Though 
no  exact  statement  is  made  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  in  regard  to  this,  yet  the 
presumption,  from  the  historical  nar- 
rative, is  very  strong  that  Limhi  and 
his  people  reached  there  before  Alma 
and  his  people.  Therefore  those  who  are 
•teaching  from  this  chart,  when  they 
reach  this  point,  will  please  draw  at- 
tention to  this  apparent  error. 

A  quartette  was  sung  by  Brother 
Thomas  Ashworth  and  assocates. 

iGENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT 
GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 
said.  I  will  tell  you  heaven  is  not  far 
off;  it  seems  as  though  it  had  come 
down  here  close  to  us.  That  is  the  feeling 
as  though  there  were  heavenly  beings 
here,  and  a  very  sweet  spirit.  I  am 
cure  you  all  feel  it. 


I  wish,  before  making  any  further 
remarks,  to  propose  that  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  be  a  member  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board. 
The  business  of  choosing  members  of 
this  board  I  have  done  but  little  about; 
but  it  struck  me  this  evening  that 
President  Smith's  name  should  be 
among  the  members  of  this  board.  All 
who  are  in  favor  of  this  will  manifest 
it  by  raising  the  right  hand.  (Vote 
unanimous).  I  am  sure  he  will  accept 
of  it 

I  see  I  am  put  down  for  some  re- 
marks. I  want  to  speak  in  the  first 
place  upon  the  "Nickel  fund."  For 
many  years  I  was  opposed,  very  stren- 
uously opposed,  to  take  up  subscrip- 
tions from  the  Sunday  schools.  I  felt 
we  should  manage  our  affairs  without 
imposing  the  least  burden  upon  the 
children  or  parents;  that  there  should 
be  nothing  in  the  shape  of  assessments, 
if  you  call  it  such,  collected  from  the 
Sunday  schools.  As  the  general  super- 
intendent, I,  for  one,  did  not  want  any- 
thing of  this  kind  that  would  be  the 
least  unpleasant,  and  for  a  great  many 
years  this  has  been  carried  out.  My 
views  upon  this  point  prevailed; 
though  there  were  many  times 
it  seemed  as  though  some- 
thing of  this  kind  should 
be  done,  because  of  the  necessities  of 
the  Union.  But  we  were  able  to  get 
along  and  keep  out  of  debt.  We 
managed  our  affairs  so  that  there  was 
no  debt,  and  we  have  since  managed 
them  so  that  there  is  no  debt.  But 
it  was  thought  necessary,  eventually, 
to  establish  what  is  called  the  "Nickel 
fund,"  a  contribution  of  five  cents  from 
each  child, once  a  year;  and  as  we  have 
been  told  tonight  by  our  treasurer, 
that  more  than  the  value  of  these 
contributions  have  been  returned  to 
the  schools,  the  purpose  being  not  to 
burden  the  people,  not  to  burden  the 
children,  not  to  burden  their  parents, 
and  not  to  have  anything  of  this  kind 
associated  with  the  Sunday  school 
movement.  But  I  have  learned  of  late 
that  there  is  a  disposition  in  some  of 
the  Stakes  to  take  up  local  subscrip- 
tions for  the  "Nickel  fund,"  that  is  for 
purposes  connected  with  the  local 
organizations. 

Now,  I  wish  to  express  myself  on 
this  point  before  this  conference  or 
gathering  of  Sunday  school  workers. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


99 


I  want  to  say  that  I  am  not  in  favor 
of  anything  of  this  kind.  Let  us  not 
permit  ourselves  to  be  drawn  into 
measures  of  this  kind.  Let  us  conduct 
this  movement  without  resorting  to 
taxation  of  this  character,  and  bring- 
ing ourselves  into  disrepute.  I  feel 
that  this  is  very  important,  and  feel 
impressed  upon  this,  for  I  heard  lately 
of  several  collections  of  this  kind  being 
taken  up  in  the  various  Stakes  or 
wards.  Let  us  get  along  with  good 
management  without  doing  this.  Do 
not  burden  the  people,  and  do  not  bring 
our  annual  nickel  fund  into  disrepute. 
I  trust  that  our  superintendents  and 
those  in  charge  of  our  Sunday  schools 
will  avoid  everything  of  this  kind.  Do 
it  in  some  other  way.  It  can  be  done 
with  good  management.  Do  not  make 
our  Sunday  schools  collecting  agencies. 
"We  have  now  for  twenty-six  years  had 
this  organization  and  it  has  not  been 
burdensome,  it  has  not  been  oppressive, 
or  become  odious  through  taxation, 
and  let  us  avoid  it. 

Another  point  that  I  have  felt  very 
much  impressed  upon  of  late,  it  is  in 
relation  to  the  character  of  our  litera- 
ture. There  is  a  disposition  to  intro- 
duce different  kinds  of  studies  in  the 
Sunday  schools.  I  have  written  some 
on  this  point  in  the  Juvenile  Instruc- 
tor. There  are  168  hours  in  our  week. 
Out  of  those  16S  hours  we  devote  one 
hour  and  a  half  to  the  instruction  of 
our  children.  We  have  about  one 
hour  and  a  half  out  of  the  168.  Now 
shall  we  introduce  other  studies  in 
the  schools  to  occupy  the  attention 
and  engage  the  minds  of  our  children? 
I  think  it  wrong;  and  I  wish  to  say 
this  to  those  assembled,  it  is  wrong. 
Let  us  devote  the  one  and  a  half  hours 
that  the  school  occupies  to  the  study 
of  the  word  of  God,  where  the  children 
are  old  enough  to  read  and  understand 
it.  And  our  theological  classes,  in- 
stead of  having  different  works  in  the 
classes,  let  us  confine  the  study  to  the 
Scriptures— the  word  of  God.  The  ob- 
ject of  our  Sunday  schools  is  to  make 
Latter-day  Saints  of  our  children, 
that  was  the  object  in  view  when  the 
Sunday  schools  were  organized.  Let 
us  use  this  time  for  this  purpose  and 
for  no  other.  If  our  children,  young 
men  or  others,  wish  to  study  other 
works,  let  them  take  the  time  outside 
of  the  Sunday  schools.      They  hav<= 


plenty  of  time.  One  hundred  and  sixty- 
six  and  a  half  hours  are  left  to  them 
to  sleep  and  perform  their  various 
labors  and  to  study.  That  gives  them 
ample  opportunity  to  acquire  a  knowl- 
edge of  that  which  they  may  desire 
to  obtain  in  connection  with  their 
Sunday  school  studies.  I  think  you 
will  all  see  the  propriety  of  this. 
Let  us  give  our  children  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  our  Scriptures,  of  the 
word  of  God,  the  Bible,  that  is,  the 
Old  and  New  Testaments,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price; 
the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  is 
too  advanced  for  our  young  children, 
but  the  older  ones  can  read  it.  I  de- 
sire to  impress  upon  you  the  necessity 
of  making  our  children  thoroughly 
familiar  wth  the  contents  and  teach- 
ings of  these  books.  I  know 
the  children  would  be  more  benefited 
by  them,  by  reading  and  paying  at- 
tention to  them,  than  anything  that 
we  can  do  or  say  for  them  in  the  shape 
of  lessons  or  giving  them  other  sub- 
jects or  books  to  read.  I  trust  that 
all  will  see  the  propriety  of  this. 

I  have  been  led  in  visiting  the  con- 
ferences and  in  talking  to  the  Sunday 
school  children,  to  dwell  upon  the  im- 
portance of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
have  also  written  upon  the  same  sub- 
ject. I  know  it  is  thought  by  some  to 
be  a  thread-bare  subject;  but  I  have 
felt  impressed  to  talk  to  the  children 
and  to  cease  talking  to  the  parents  in 
the  Church  upon  that  subject.  The* 
have  had  instruction  enough.  I  have 
felt  to  leave  this  with  themselves.  But 
I  have  desired,  and  have  so  expressed 
myself,  that  our  children  should  be 
brought  up  to  be  a  new  generation,  so 
to  speak,  that  there  will  not  be  a  tea 
drinker,  a  coffee  drinker,  a  tobacco 
user,  a  liquor  or  beer  drinker  in  the 
whole  generation;  that  we  may  have 
a  generation  that  can  say  "I  never 
tasted  tea  and  coffee,  I  never  tasted 
tobacco,  I  never  use  any  of  these  in- 
toxicants;" that  a  whole  generation 
shall  grow  up  in  that  way.  It  can 
be  done  through  the  agencies  of  the 
Sunday  schools;  for  every  child  can 
be  so  taught.  But  if  parents  use 
these  articles,  the  children  can  say, 
"Well,  my  parents  grew  up  under 
different  circumstances  to  those  that 
surround  me;  but  I  am  not  going  to 
taste  these  articles;  I  am  not  going  to 


IOO 


/ >  ESKRE  T  SI  NDA  Y  SCHOOL  UNION 


acquire  the  least  desire  for  them,  and 
know  anything  about  their  influence 
upon  my  body." 

I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  urging 
this  course  upon  the  children,  and  have 
said  If  you  will  do  this  you  will  have 
satisfaction  during  your  life,  and  we 
will  raise  up  a  generation  of  this  kind, 
very  diefferent  to  the  generation  to 
whom  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  been 
preached  now  for  over  sixty  years. 
So  much  on  that  point.  i 

I  do  not  want  to  trespass  upon  your 
time;  we  have  had  so  many  meetings. 
But  there  is  one  point  I  would  like 
to  mention,  and  that  is  that  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations 
should  endeavor,  we  wish  to  say  that 
to  the  brethren  in  charge,  as  much  as 
possible,  to  refrain  from  taking  the 
superintendents  of  the  Sunday  schools 
as  missionaries,  or  to  act    in  other 

capacities. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
glorify  God  with  all  our  hearts  for 
what  He  is  doing  for  our  children.  1 
feel  as  though  we  were  going  to  raise 
a  mighty  generation.  Every  heart 
should  be  encouraged  for  that  which 
God  has  done  and  is  doing  for  us.  The 
future  before  us  is  of  the  grandest  de- 
scription. If  we  will  open  our  eyes 
to  see  and  look  with  the  eye  of  faith, 
we  will  see  how  rapidly  God  is  ful- 
filling His  promises,  and  how  glorious 
is  the  prospect  of  the  fulfillment,  the 
future  fulfillment  of  those  that  are 
yet  unfulfilled.  God  bless  you  all,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

FIRST  ASSISTANT  SUPERINTEND- 
ENT GEORGE  GODDARD 
said.  I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for 
what  my  eyes  have  seen  and  what  my 
hands  have  received  from  Thy  servants 
and  Thine  hand-maidens.  I  ask  Thee  to 
accept  my  thanks  and  gratitude,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH: 

I  feel  also  very  grateful  for  the 
recognition  that  has  been  given  me  this 
evening  by  President  Cannon  and  this 
body  of  teachers  of  Sunday  schools,  and 
I  hope  to  be  able  to  labor  in  connection 
with  my  brethren  in  the  Sunday  school 
cause,  as  I  always  have  done,  and 
more  faithfully,  if  possible,  in  the 
future,  and  as  opportunity  may  pre- 
sent. I  have  always  had  a  lively  in- 
interest  in  the  youth  of  Zion  and  in  the 
children  of  Zion,  and  I  have  always 
felt  that  nothing  I  could  do  would  be 
too  much,  if  it  could  be  directed  in 
the  interset  and  welfare  of  the  children 
of  the  people  of  God.  I  feel  very  grate- 
ful for  the  recognition  and  of  the  calling 
to  which  I  have  been  called  this  even- 
ing. I  feel  very  grateful  to  the  brethren 
in  my  spirit  for  the  kindness  and  for 
the  high  appreciation  which  they  have 
manifested  toward  Brother  George 
Goddard  for  his  faithful  and  efficient 
labors  in  the  Sunday  school  cause.  I 
feel  that  they  have  done  honor  to 
themselves  in  thus  recognizing  the 
faithful  and  valient  services  of  this  our 
veteran  brother  in  this  cause.  And  may 
God  bless  Brother  Goddard  and  con- 
tinue his  health  and  strength  many 
years  to  come,  that  he  may  pursue  his 
labors  as  heretofore  in  the  interest  of 
the  young  people  of  Zion.  May  the 
Lord  bless  those  who  contributed  this 
beautiful  medal  and  purse  of  money 
for  his  benefit,  and  I  feel  that  the 
Lord  will  bless  them  therefor.  Amen. 

Guide  Us  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah  was 
sung. 

Benediction  by  Elder  George  Teas- 
dale. 

LEO  HUNSAKER, 
Secretary    pro  tem.  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union. 


