NINETY-SEVENTH 

ANNUAL 

CONFE 

RENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

- 

April  3,  4,  5  and  6,  1927 

With  a  Full  Report  of 
A 11  the  Discourses 

as 

m 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young 

This  Great  Book  Should  be  in  Every 
Home  Library 

No  Latter-day  Saint  home  library  is  complete  without  the  unique 
volume,  "Discourses  of  Brigham  Young."  Thousands  still  living  were 
thrilled  with  the  inspired  wisdom  of  the  great  colonizer.  They  heard 
the  words  fall  from  his  lips  that  were  a  comfort  and  a  guide  to  them 
in  their  daily  living. 

Those  same  words,  now  in  print,  can  help  and  inspire  the  new 
generations.  The  youth  should  be  encouraged  to  read  this  great  book. 
It  will  help  them  to  know  Brigham  Young  as  they  have  never  known 
him  before.  They  can  appraise  his  doctrine,  not  by  tradition  or  garbled 
account,  but  by  the  perusal  of  sermons  accurately  transcribed. 

"Discourses  of  Brigham  Young"  will  be  sent  to  any  address  for 
$2.50  postpaid.  Special  price  to  members  of  Priesthood  Quorums — $2.00 
postpaid.    Orders  will  be  filled  mail  C.  O.  D.  at  $2.00  each,  if  desired. 

Latter-Day  Saint  Hymns 

The  New  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  is  now  ready. 

It  contains  419  songs  with  music.    Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 

a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 
$1.00  Postpaid. 

Write  for  prices  to  Wards  on  quantity  orders. 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Seventh  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  Ninety-seventh  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  opened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  on  Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  April  3,  1927. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

Every  seat  in  the  main  hall,  galleries  and  choir  stand  about  the 
great  organ  was  occupied,  and  many  hundreds  were  standing  in  the 
aisles.  There  was  also  a  crowded  house  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  where 
an  overflow  meeting  was  conducted  by  Elder  J.  Golden  Kimball,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Many  were  unable  to  gain  entrance  into 
either  building,  but  assembled  at  the  Bureau  of  Information  building 
and  listened  to  the  Tabernacle  services  as  they  came  over  the  radio. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve :  Rudger  Clawson,*  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,f  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman, 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch.% 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells, §  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Rey  L. 
Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A. 
Smith,  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

*Reed  Smoot  absent,  owing  to  serious  illness  of  his  wife. 

r  James  E.  Talmage  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  mission. 

tHyrum  G.  Smith  absent,  on  account  of  illness. 

SJoseph  W.  McMurrin  absent,  owing  to  serious  illness  of  his  daughter. 


GEXERAL  CONFERENCE 


Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-six  stakes  of  Zion. 

The  Priesthood  Quorums,  including  the  high  priests,  seventies  and 
elders,  and  bishops  and  their  counselors,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church, 
were  in  attendance;  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  both  of  men 
and  of  women  were  present,  and  also  members  of  the  Board  of 
Education. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance,  as  follow :  Henry  H. 
Rolapp,  Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States ;  Wm.  R. 
Sloan,  Northwestern  States ;  Chas.  H.  Hart,  Canada ;  John  G.  Allred, 
Northcentral  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt. 
Mexico ;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

The  choir  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Peter  G.  Johnston,  of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "They  that  sow  in  tears." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  has  been  customary  at  the  April  Conferences  to  make  announce- 
ments and  to  read  some  statistics.  We  regret  the  absence  of  Elder 
Reed  Smoot,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  I  have  a  telegram  from  him 
reading  as  follows : 

TELEGRAM  FROM  ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

"I  send  greetings  to  the  Saints  assembled  at  the  General  Conference.  Al- 
lie's  serious  sickness,  only  thing  that  prevents  my  presence.  Blessings  of  God  is 
the  only  power  that  can  save  her.  I  would  appreciate  the  faith  and  prayers  of 
the  people  assembled,  asking  our  heavenly  Father  to  grant,  if  it  is  his -will,  that 
she  be  given  further  life,  with  renewed  health  and  strength." 

Reed  Smoot. 

OTHER  AUTHORITIES  ABSENT 

The  Presiding  Patriarch  is  absent  on  account  of  ill  health. 

As  you  all  know,  Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  is  presiding  over  the  European  mission,  and  cannot,  therefore, 
■be  with  us.  I  regret,  on  account  of  the  serious  illness  of  a  daughter 
of  Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
that  he  alsois  absent.  All  the  others  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance  today. 

CHANGES  AND  [RELEASES 

There  has  been  a  change  in  the  presidency  of  the  Lethbridge  stake, 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown  being  honorably  released,  and  Asael  E.' 
Palmer  appointed  president ;  a  change  also  in  the  Maricopa  stake,  J.  W. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Lesueur  being  honorably  released  and  James  Robert  Price  being  sus- 
tained as  president. 

Changes  and  releases  in  the  mission  field:  John  H.  Anderson  has 
been  released  as  president  of  the  Swedish  mission,  and  Andrew  Johnson 
appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Ernest  LeRoy  Butler  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Sa- 
moan  mission,  and  Willard  !L.  Smith  appointed  as  president. 

Brigham  S.  Young  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  North- 
western States  mission  and  William  R.  Sloan  appointed  as  his  successor. 

Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Canadian 
mission,  and  Charles  H.  Hart  appointed  as  his  successor. 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  East- 
ern States  mission,  and  Henry  H.  Rolapp  appointed  as  his  successor. 

New  wards  have  been  {organised :  Kimball  ward,  St.  Joseph  stake ; 
Cedar  Third  ward,  Parowan  stake;  Manila  ward,  Lyman  stake;  Lan- 
kershim  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake;  Littlefield  ward,  Moapa  stake; 
Ogden  Twentieth  ward,  Ogden  stake ;  and  the  Graham  and  Hibbard 
wards  in  the  St.  Joseph  stake  have  been  combined. 

We  mourn  the  loss  of  the  following  bishops  since  our  last  meeting : 
John  A.  Hunt  of  St.  Charles  ward,  Bear  Lake  stake;  Edgar  O.  Nielson 
of  Cleveland  ward,  Bannock  stake;  Edwin  Olpin  of  Pleasant  Grove 
First  ward,  Alpine  stake,  and  John  J.  Burgner  of  Darby  ward,  Teton 
stake. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

Following  is  a  list  of  expenditures  'from  the  tithes  of  the  Church 
for  the  year  1926: 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes — There  has  been  returned  from  the 
tithes  to  the  stakes  and  wards  for  operation,  maintenance,  and  build- 
ing construction,  $1,530,243.64. 

Education — Expended  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  Church 
schools,  $837,810.47. 

Temples — Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance,  and  oper- 
ation of  temples,  $322,500.36. 

Charities — For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable 
purposes,  including  hospital  treatment,  $187,570.43. 

Missions — For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions, 
and  for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in  the 
missions,  $738,737.75.    Total  $3,616,862,65. 

Other  Charities — In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes,  as 
before  named,  there  have  also  been  disbursed  the  Fast  Offerings,  other 
charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief  Society,  in  the  sum  of 
$436,055.44,  which  amount,  added  to  the  $187,570.43  paid  from  the 
tithes,  makes  the  total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church, 
$623,625.87. 

There  were  transferred  from  the  California  mission,  at  the  time  of 
the  organization  of  the  Los  Angeles  stake  of  Zion,  the  Adams  ward 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


chapel  and  other  chapels  to  the  value  of  $200,000.  The  California 
mission  at  the  present  time  owns  chapels  of  a  value  of  over  $400,000. 
The  chapel  at  Oakland  is  as  fine  a  chapel,  and  holds  about  as  many 
people,  as  any  of  our  ward  chapels  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  It  has 
been  decided  to  organize  another  stake  of  Zion  in  Northern  California, 
with  San  Francisco,  Oakland  and  surrounding  country  to  compose  that 
stake. 

There  have  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church  and 
paid  to  missionaries,  to  assist  in  their  maintenance,  $128,299.65. 

REPORT  OF  THE  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

"President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors,  Building. 

'  Dear  Brethren:  As  the  Church  Auditing  Committee,  we  have  to  report  that 
the  accounting  of  the  Church,  as  shown  by  the  records  in  the  First  Presidency's 
office  and  in  the  office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  is  all  that  could  be  desired. 
The  receipts  and  disbursements,  the  revenues  and  expenses  of  the  Church  are  so 
carefully  and  accurately  kept  that  the  present  worth  or  financial  status  of  the 
Church  is  clearly  shown.  The  affairs  of  the  Church  are  wisely  administered,  and 
the  present  showing  is  excellent.  It  is  gratifying  to  know  that  the  credit  of  the 
Church  comes  under  the  very  highest  rating,  but  it  is  still  more  gratifying  to 
know  that  the  Church  is  under  no  necessity  at  present  to  use  its  credit  in  the  com- 
mercial world  by  borrowing  money. 

"(Signed) 

"HENRY  H.  ROLAPP, 
"JOHN  C.  CUTLER, 
"PETER  G.  JOHNSTON, 

"Auditing  Committee." 

STATISTICS 

Church  Growth — Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the 
Church  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  19,701. 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions,  15,024. 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and 
missions,  6,663. 

There  are  now  96  stakes  of  Zion,  915  wards,  77  independent 
branches  connected  with  the  stakes,  and  27  missions  and  734  branches 
in  the  missions. 

Social  Statistics — Birth  rate,  31  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate,  13.9  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  7.7  per  thousand. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  72  per  cent. 
Persons  recommended  to  the  temple,  58,958,  or  6  per  cent  more 
than  in  1925. 

Missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1926  2  188 

Local  missionaries   '  '  '  ~? 

Engaged  m  missionary  work  m  stakes    1  14Q 

Total   3 

The  Assistant  Historian  of  the  Church,  Elder  Andrew  Jenson,' has 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


handed  me  a  compilation  of  the  missionaries  that  have  been  in  the  field 
from  the  year  1830  until  1926.  The  lowest  number  is  16  missionaries, 
the  first  year  of  the  Church.  The  highest  number  sent  out  in  anv 
year  is  1,313,  in  1925;  1,235  in  1926,  and  1,211  in  1919.  The  total 
is  between  35,000  and  40,000  missionaries  that  have  been  sent  into 
the  field.  \  jl  I 

REPORTS  FROM  THE  MISSIONS 

Speaking  of  the  missions,  I  will  read  some  few  requests  from  a 
number  of  mission  presidents : 

The  Northcentral  States:  "We  shall  be  losing  about  twenty  mis- 
sionaries in  the  next  twenty  days,  which  will  bring  us  down  to  about 
fifty-seven.    Our  greatest  need,  therefore,  is  more  missionaries." 

Central  Statess  "We  need  long-term  missionaries  more  than  any- 
thing else  right  at  the  present  time." 

California  mission:  "We  are  parting  with  short-term  missionaries 
almost  daily,  and  need  fifty  elders  and  twenty-five  lady  missionaries  to 
care  properly  for  the  districts  that  are  open.  More  missionaries  will  be 
released  during  the  next  three  months  than  the  foregoing  number." 

Australian  mission:  "In  this  report  we  have  four  fewer  missionaries 
than  a  year  ago,  and  in  February  we  have  nine  who  will  leave  this  mis- 
sion, and  unless  we  receive  recruits  very  fast  we  will  be  very  short- 
handed  by  the  first  of  March." 

German- Austrian  mission:  "Our  work  is  going  forward  by  leaps 
and  bounds.  We  are  needing  four  or  five  elders  each  month  in  order 
to  hold  our  present  field.   We  should  be  opening  new  fields." 

Danish  mission :  "Elders  are  needed  as  we  will  soon  be  seriously 
handicapped  on  account  of  so  many  who  will  receive  releases  to  return 
home." 

Swedish  mission :  "During  the  coming  month  there  will  be  about 
five  other  elders  released.  We  would  appreciate  receiving  more  breth- 
ren, especially  those  who  understand  Swedish ;  or  better  still  if  they 
can  speak  it." 

The  French  and  Swiss-German  missions  also  make  the  same  ap- 
peal. 

(At  this  point  President  B.  H.  Roberts  remarked:  "I  wish  to  join 
the  chorus  in  behalf  of  the  Eastern  States  mission.") 

I  might  say  that  the  chorus  will  be  unanimous,  for  I  do  not  believe 
there  is  a  single  mission  that  has  not  made  appeals,  but  I  have  just  put 
down  a  few  to  read  here  this  afternoon. 

(President  B.  H.  Roberts:  "President  Grant,  remember  our  great 
population  in  proportion  to  our  number.") 

I  find  that  each  and  every  mission  president  is  thoroughly  con- 
verted that  he  needs  more  missionaries  than  the  others. 

There  is  another  thing  that  I  rejoice  in,  above  everything  else  in 
our  missionary  work,  and  that  is,  all  the  missionaries  are  thoroughly 
convinced  that  their  mission  president  is  the  finest  of  all  the  mission 
presidents,  and  that  their  mission  is  the  best,  although  it  may  be  in  far- 
off  Australia,  or  any  other  place.    The  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Lord  upon  our  missionaries  is  such  that  they  rejoice  and  are  happy  in 
their  labors. 

VISITS  SINCE  LAST  CONFERENCE 

Since  our  last  conference  lit  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  be  actively 
engaged  in  visiting  some  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  have  visited  the  Big 
Horn  section  of  the  country  and  other  sections  of  Wyoming  and 
Montana.  I  also  visited  some  of  the  wards  in  the  San  Luis  valley, 
dedicating  a  small  chapel  in  Wyoming  and  one  in  Denver,  Colorado. 
I  visited  the  St.  Joseph,  Maricopa  and  Los  Angeles  stakes,  and  some 
of  the  stakes  in  Utah,  holding  meetings  with  the  Saints  in  Arizona  and 
dedicating  two  chapels  there  and  four  in  the  Los  Angeles  stake.  I 
have  had  the  pleasure  of  holding  meetings  with  the  Saints  and  mis- 
sionaries in  Omaha  and  Lincoln,  Nebraska ;  Rock  Springs  and  Green 
River,  Wyoming.  This  was  the  first  time  that  I  have  had  the  pleasure 
of  being  at  Lincoln,  the  capital  of  Nebraska,  or  at  Green  River  and 
Rock  Springs.  In  addition  'I  have  visited  a  number  of  the  wards  in 
the  different  stakes  here  in  Utah,  dedicating  chapels,  during  the  last 
six  months. 

FAVORABLE  ATTITUDE  TOWARDS  THE  CHURCH 

There  is  a  most  wonderful  change  in  the  attitude  of  the  people 
of  the  world  towards  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  find  no  difficulty  what- 
ever in  getting  publicity  in  the  various  papers ;  and  when  I  travel,  in 
different  cities  in  the  east  and  west,  the  north  or  the  south,  those  who 
have  interviewed  me  have  given  correct  reports  of  the  interviews. 
Brother  James  E.  Talmage  is  also  getting  splendid  publicity  in  the 
European  papers.  He  has  extensive  notices  and  there  seems  to  be  no 
prejudice  in  the  press  of  Great  Britain  at  the  present  time. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  OF  THE  FORMER  ATTITUDE  IN  ENGLAND 

When  I  was  in  Europe,  as  the  president  of  the  European  mission, 
during  the  entire  three  years  that  I  was  there,  they  published  no  article 
that  we  presented,  and  no  report  of  a  favorable  nature  was  ever  pub- 
lished in  any  of  the  papers.  I  call  to  mind  visiting  one  of  the  great 
London  papers  that  had  published  from  seven  to  ten  columns  of  the  vilest 
statements  regarding  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  took  with  me  a  letter 
of  introduction  from  the  manager  of  the  shipping  house  in  Liverpool 
with  which  we  had  done  business  for  over  60  years,  vouching  for  the 
integrity,  not  only  of  myself  but  of  all  my  predecessors  as  the  presidents 
of  the  European  mission  of  the  Church.  The  editors  of  this  paper 
positively  refused  to  make  any  refutation  of  the  slanderous  articles  they 
had  published,  or  to  publish  a  single  thing  that  I  wrote,  announcing 
that  they  thought  they  had  published  exactly  what  they  ought  about 
the  "Mormon"  people.  I  told  them  that  I  defied  them  to  find  a  man  that 
had  written  any  of  those  articles  who  could  furnish  them  with  a  certi- 
ficate of  character,  but  that  I  carried  with  me  a  certificate  of  my 
integrity  and  honesty,  signed  by  all  the  non-"Mormon"  bankers  in  Salt 
Lake  City  at  that  time;  that  I  also  had  letters  from  bankers  and  in- 


PRESIDENT  HEBEK  J.  GRANT 


/ 


fluential  business  men  from  New  York  to  San  Francisco ;  that  I  did 
not  carry  with  me  any  recommendation  from  "Mormon"  institutions 
or  from  "Mormons."  Had  I  done  so,  I  told  the  editor,  it  would  be 
like  writing  a  letter  myself :  "To  Whom  It  May  Concern :  The  bearer, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  is  honorable.  Respectfully,  Heber  '].  Grant."  He  said, 
"Never  mind  your  opinion,  Mr.  Grant,  we  will  not  publish  anything  re- 
garding your  people."  I  happened  to  remember  that  the  gentleman's 
name  was  Robinson.  As  I  reached  the  door  and  put  on  my  two-story 
hat — which  it  is  necessary  to  wear  in  Europe,  if  you  are  considered  any- 
body— I  turned  around,  took  it  off  and  said: 

"I  understand  that  your  name  is  Robinson,  that  the  editor-in-chief, 
to  whom  my  letter  is  written,  is  out  of  the  city."  He  said :  "Yes,  that 
is  right."  "Are  you  acquainted  with  Phil  Robinson?"  "Yes."  "Would 
you  believe  anything  and  everything  that  Phil  Robinson  says  about  the 
'Mormons?'"  He  said:  "I  certainly  would."  I  said:  "Was  he  the 
correspondent  of  the  London  Daily  Telegraph,  one  of  the  two  greatest 
— and  I  emphasized  'greatest'  because  his  paper  was  not  one  of  the 
two — in  London?"  He  said:  "He  was."  "And  you  would  believe 
everything  he  wrote?"  "I  would."  "  Buy  his  book  entitled  Sinners  and 
Saints  and  you  will  find  that  everything  you  have  published  about 
the  'Mormons'  is  a  lie,  pure  and  simple.  If  you  can't  afford  two  shillings, 
I  will  buy  the  book  and  present  it  to  you  with  my  compliments."  He 
said :  "You  astonish  me."  I  said :  "You  are  not  the  first  man  who 
has  been  astonished  when  confronted  with  the  truth  regarding  the  'Mor- 
mon' people.  I  have  met  your  kind  from  Tokyo,  Japan,  to  London,  who 
have  refused  to  publish  the  truth  about  the  'Mormons.'  "  He  said, 
"Write  a  half  column."  I  said,  "Thanks  for  small  favors,  large  ones 
received  with  greater  thanks.  Seven  to  ten  columns  of  falsehoods  writ- 
ten against  our  people,  and  a  half  column  allowed  for  refutation !" 
Within  a  couple  of  hours  he  had  the  half  column.  He  kept  it  the  usual 
30  or  60  days  and  returned  it  with  the  usual  printed  slip  that  I  have 
seen  many  times :  "The  Editor  regrets  that  he  cannot  find  space  for 
the  enclosed  manuscript,  and  it  is  returned."  When  I  see  those  "regrets" 
J  cannot  but  think  of  the  saying:  "Polite  lying  is  an  accomplishment. 
It  lubricates  business,  varnishes  unpleasant  facts,  and  promotes  friend- 
ships." 

TRIBUTES  PAID  TO  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Since  that  time  there  have  been  thousands  of  splendid  tributes 
paid  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  before  me  one  which  was  written, 
I  think,  seven  years  ago  this  coming  June.  I  have  never  heard  it  quoted 
in  this  Tabernacle,  so  I  am  going  to  read  it.  It  is  from  Franklin  K. 
Lane,  secretary  of  the  interior,  as  I  remember,  under  President  Wilson : 

"Cross  the  border  you  come  down  into  Utah. 

"Never  speak  disrespectfully  of  the  'Mormon'  Church.  It  has  as  law-abiding, 
steady,  hard-working,  kindly  a  group  of  people  in  Utah  as  will  be  found  anywhere 
this  round  globe  over.  Brigham  Young  may  not  have  been  a  prophet  of  Al- 
mighty God,  but  he  worked  a  miracle  when  he  crossed  from  the  Missouri  river 
over  that  desert,  leading  his  band  of  a  few  hundred  followers  with  their  push- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


carts,  going  out  into  that  unknown  waste,  and  turned  the  land  that  lies  around 
Salt  Lake  City  into  a  garden. 

"I  brought  from  Egypt,  several  years  ago,  the  greatest  irrigation  expert  in 
the  world,  perhaps,  the  man  who  built  the  Assuan  Dam  upon  the  Nile— Sir  Wil- 
liam Willcocks,  the  man  who  claims  to  have  discovered  where  the  Garden  of 
Eden  was  located,  at  the  junction  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers — and  I 
sent  him  to  look  over  the  irrigation  enterprises  of  the  United  States,  and  he 
said :  'Nowhere  else  have  I  seen  people  who  understand  so  wisely  how  to  apply 
water  to  land  as  around  Salt  Lake  City.' 

"Utah  has  wonderful  beauty  in  it  as  well  as  great  stretches  of  desert  that  are 
to  be  reclaimed.  We  have  just  discovered  a  new  beauty  spot  there,  Bryce 
canyon." 

And  many  of  them  are  just  discovering  Cedar  Breaks,  Zion  canyon 
and  the  north  rim  of  the  Grand  canyon,  also. 

As  I  stated  before,  I  say  again,  I  rejoice  in  the  change  of  sentiment 
of  the  press  of  Great  Britain,  the  splendid  fruits  that  are  attending 
President  James  E.  Talmage  in  getting  publicity  in  the  newspapers. 

MONUMENT  TO  THE  THREE  WITNESSES  DEDICATED 

I  had  the  pleasure  here,  yesterday,  of  dedicating  a  little  monument 
to  the  memory  of  the  Three  Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

THOUSANDS  IN  ALL  PARTS  HAVE  A  TESTIMONY 

I  rejoice  that  there  are  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  people 
from  the  country  of  the  midnight  sun,  Scandinavia,  to  South  Africa, 
from  Canada  to  South  America,  and  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  reach- 
ing clear  out  to  New  Zealand  and  Australia,  who  can  testify  that  God  has 
seen  fit  to  answer  their  earnest  prayers  and  has  given  to  them, 
as  is  promised  here  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  a  testimony  regarding  this 
remarkable  and  wonderful  record.    I  read  the  words  of  Moroni : 

"Now  I,  Moroni,  write  somewhat  as  seemeth  me  good ;  and  I  write  unto  my 
brethren,  the  Lamanites ;  and  I  would  that  they  should  know  that  more  than  four 
hundred  and  twenty  years  have  passed  away  since  the  sign  was  given  of  the 
coming  of  Christ. 

"And  I  seal  up  these  records,  after  I  have  spoken  a  few  words  by  way  of  ex- 
hortation unto  you. 

"Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be 
wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how'merciful 
the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation  of  Adam  even 
down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it  in  your 
hearts. 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  wi  uld 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true ; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things 
"And  whatsoever  thing  is  good  is  just  and  true;  wherefore  nothing  that  is 
good  denieth  the  Christ,  but  acknowledged  that  he  is." 

CHRIST   IS  DENIED  BY  MANY 

The  Christ  is  denied  today  by  hundreds  of  thousands  of  peo- 
ple. Many  of  the  men  who  are  teaching  in  our  great  universities 
are  denying  that  Christ  was  the  son  of  God.    Many  men  who  are 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


teaching  from  the  pulpit  do  not  acknowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  was 
in  very  deed  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  World, 
coming  to  the  earth  with  a  definite  mission. 

While  in  Europe  I  purchased  a  book  by  Senator  Albert  J.  Bever- 
idge  entitled  The  Young  Man  and  the  World.  One  of  his  chapters  was 
devoted  to  the  young  man  preparing  for  the  ministry.    He  said : 

"Any  man  who  assumes  to  teach  the  Christian  faith,  who,  in  his  own  secret 
heart  questions  that  faith,  commits  a  sacrilege  every  time  he  enters  the  pulpit. 

"He  is  like  the  chemist's  grain  of  wheat,  perfect  in  all  its  constituent  ele- 
ments except  the  mysterious  spark  of  life,  without  which  the  wheat  grain  will 
not  grow. 

"If,  then,  you  do  not  believe  what  you  say,  and  believe  it  with  all  your 
soul,  believe  it  in  your  heart  of  hearts,  do  not  try  to  get  other  men  to  believe  it. 
You  will  not  be  honest  if  you  do.  The  world  expects  you  to  be  sure  of  your- 
self. How  do  you  expect  to  make  other  people  sure  of  themselves  if  you  are 
not  sure  of  yourself? 

"I  would  rather  be  sure  that  when  a  man  dies  he  will  live  again  with  his 
conscious  identity,  than  to  have  all  the  wealth  of  the  United  States,  or  to  occupy 
any  position  of  honor  or  power  the  world  could  possibly  give,"  said  a  man 
whose  name  is  known  to  the  railroad  world  as  one  of  the  ablest  transportation 
men  in  the  United  States.    *    *  * 

"A  few  years  ago  a  certain  man  with  good  opportunities  for  the  investigation 
and  a  probability  of  sincere  answers,  asked  every  young  preacher  whom  he  met 
during  a  summer  vacation  these  questions : 

"'First:  Yes  or  no;  do  you  believe  in  God,  the  Father;  God  a  person,  God 
a  definite  and  tangible  intelligence — not  a  congeries  of  laws  floating  like  a  fog 
through  the  universe;  but  God,  a  person  in  whose  image  you  were  made?  Don't 
argue;  don't  explain;  but  is  your  mind  in  a  .condition  where  you  can  answer 
yes  or  no?' 

"Not  a  man  answered  'Yes.'  Each  man  wanted  to  explain  that  the  Deity 
might  be  a  definite  intelligence  or  might  not;  that  the  'latest  thought'  was  much 
confused  upon  the  matter,  and  so  forth  and  so  on. 

"Second :  Yes  or  no ;  do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  the  .Son  of  the  living 
God,  sent  by  him  to  save  the  world?  I  am  not  asking  whether  you  believe  that 
he  was  inspired  in  the  sense  that  the  great  moral  teachers  are  inspired — nobody 
has  any  difficulty  about  that.  But  do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  God's  very 
Son,  with  a  divinely  appointed  and  definite  mission,  dying  on  the  cross  and  raised 
from  the  dead — yes  or  no?' 

"Again  not  a  single  answer  with  an  unequivocal,  earnest  'Yes.'  But  again 
explanations  were  offered  and  in  at  least  half  the  instances  the  sum  of  most 
of  the  answers  was  that  Christ  was  the  most  perfect  man  that  the  world  had 
seen  and  humanity's  greatest  moral  teacher." 

I  maintain  that  Christ  could  not  have  been  humanity's  greatest 
moral  teacher  unless  he  was  in  very  deed  the  Son  of  God,  because 
he  announced  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God,  that  he  was  the  express  image 
of  his  Father,  and  that  those  who  had  seen  him  had  in  very  deed 
seen  the  Father ;  therefore  if  the  foundation  of  his  structure  were  false, 
he  could  not  be  a  great  moral  teacher. 

"Third.  Do  you  believe  that  when  you  die  you  will  live  again  as  a  con- 
scious intelligence,  knowing  who  you  are  and  who  other  people  are? 

"Again  not  one  answer  was  unconditionally  affirmative.  'Of  course,  they 
were  not  sure  as  a  matter  of  knowledge.'  'Of  course,  that  could  not  be  known 
definitely.'  'On  the  whole,  they  were  inclined  to  think  so,  but  there  were  very 
stubborn  objections,'  and  so  forth  and  so  on. 

"The  men  to  whom  these  questions  were  put  were  particularly  high-grade 


10 


GEXERAL  CONFERENCE 


ministers.  One  of  them  had  already  won  a  distinguished  reputation  in  New 
York  and  the  New  England  states  for  his  eloquence  and  piety.  Every  one  of 
them  had  had  unusual  success  with  fashionable  congregations. 

"But  every  one  of  them  had  noted  an  absence  of  real  influence  upon  the 
hearts  of  their  hearers,  and  all  thought  that  this  same  condition  is  spreading 
throughout  the  modern  pulpit. 

"Yet  not  cne  of  them  suspected  that  the  profound  cause  of  what  they  called 
'the  decay  of  faith,'  was  not  in  the  world  of  men  and  women,  but  in  themselves. 
How  could  such  priests  of  ice  warm  the  souls  of  men?  How  could  such  apostles 
cf  interrogation  convert  a  world?" 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  SAINTS 

I  rejoice  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  living  can  answer  without  a 
moment's  hesitation  all  three  of  those  questions,  "Yes,  yes,  yes."  The 
very  foundation  of  the  Church  rests  upon  the  fact  that  a  boy  not  yet 
15  years  of  age  saw  God  himself,  a  glorified  man,  beyond  the  power  of 
any  individual  to  describe,  and  that  God  introduced  Jesus  Christ  to  this 
boy.  The  very  foundation  of  the  Church  rests  upon  the  further  fact 
that  the  man  who  baptized  the  Savior  of  the  world,  John  the  Baptist, 
laid  his  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
ordained  them  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with  the  authority  to  baptize 
each  other  and  commanding  them  to  do  so ;  that  Peter,  James  and  John, 
the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  laid  their  hands  upon  the  heads 
of  these  men  and  ordained  them  to  the  apostleship,  giving  to  them  the 
power  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  build  up 
his  Church  in  the  world. 

There  is  no  Latter-day  Saint  that  would  deny  the  vision  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  which  I  have  quoted  time  and  time  again,  and  per- 
haps did  so  at  our  last  conference,  stating : 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  aind  daughters  unto  God." 

MARRIAGE  FOR  TIME  AND  ETERNITY 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  every  man  and  every  woman  married  in 
the  temples  of  the  Lord  are  married  for  time  and  for  all  eternity. 
What  an  absurdity  for  us  to  believe  in  a  ceremony  uniting  our  wives  to 
us  for  eternity  if  there  were  no  existence  beyond  the  grave. 

The  Church  is  also  founded  upon  the  fact  that  Moroni  came  and 
delivered  the  plates  to  Joseph  Smith.  We  have  no  doubt  as  to  the  in- 
dividuality of  Moroni  who  delivered  these  plates. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION,  WITH  TESTIMONY  AND  COMMENTS  THEREON 

It  seems  that  there  are  others  who  lack  faith  in  addition  to  those 
that  I  have  referred  to  in  my  quotation  from  Senator  Beveridge's  book. 

Away  back  in  1910,  January  31,  Reverend  T.  H.  Martin  made  some 
very  remarkable  confessions  that  were  published  in  the  Anaconda 
Standard.    A  man  challenged  me.  after  I  had  read  these  statements  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


commented  upon  them,  and  said  I  would  get  myself  into  trouble  because 
it  was  only  a  lot  of  "Mormon"  lies ;  that  no  minister  ever  delivered  such 
a  sermon,  and  he  warned  me  to  stop  or  I  would  get  into  trouble.  The 
warning,  however,  did  not  take  root  nor  yield  any  fruit.  The  next 
time  that  I  spoke  he  asked  me  if  I  had  seen  the  Anaconda  Standard. 
I  told  him  no,  but  inasmuch  as  I  gave  the  exact  date  that  it  appeared, 
it  was  up  to  him  to  bring  an  Anaconda  Standard  and  to  come  and  show 
me  that  it  was  not  in  it.  The  very  next  time  that  I  saw  fit  to  preach 
upon  this  subject  was  in  the  North  Sanpete  stake  of  Zion.  After  my 
sermon  Elder  Barrus  Cox  came  to  me,  and  said : 

"Brother  Grant,  I  am  the  identical  elder  who  sent  that  Anaconda 
Standard  to  the  Liahona,  from  which  they  published  extracts.  I  have 
an  extra  copy.    Would  you  like  it?" 

I  told  him  J  needed  it  in  my  business,  and  he  gave  it  to  me;  so 
I  have  read  this  sermon  with  my  own  eyes  in  the  Anaconda  Standard. 
Reverend  Martin  said : 

"For  a  long  time  the  following  questions  have  been  uppermost  in  my  mind : 
"Is  the  church  anything  but  a  mere  social  organization?  Is  the  Christianity 
of  today  the  true  doctrine  of  the  Christ  of  the  Bible?  Has  the  so-called  Chris- 
tianity of  today  anything  in  it  that  ought  to  attract  more  than  any  other  creed 
that  is  supposed  to  help  humanity?  Is  not  the  church  of  today  being  boycotted 
and  that  justly  ? 

"I  know  that  such  interrogations  will  not  be  very  savory  to  many  people,  but 
knowing  something  concerning  the  church  from  top  to  bottom,  and  as  I  fear  God, 
and  would  rather  be  true  than  be  esteemed,  I  fearlessly  propound  them.  *  *  * 
But  with  all  of  this  I  maintain  that  the  Christianity  of  the  present  is  face  to  face 
with  a  lamentable  loss.  The  Christianity  of  today  has  acquired  much,  but  in 
its  getting  it  has  lost  its  own  soul,  it  has  lost  the  Holy  Ghost." 

I  declare  in  all  soberness  that  all  over  the  wide  world  wherever 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  gone,  (the  gospel  revealed  to  us  through 
the  Prophet  of  the  living  God,  Joseph  Smith),  the  Holy  Ghost  has 
been  bestowed  upon  men  and  women  by  the  hundreds  and  thousands,  if 
not  tens  of  thousands,  and  they  are  willing  to  testify  to  their  knowledge 
regarding  the  divinity  of  this  work  and  to  bear  witness  that  God  has, 
by  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  them,  given  them  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  also  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

"No  true  man  will  dare  to  refute  this  argument,  for  go  where  you  may  in 
Christendom  tqday  you  will  find  that  our  religion  is  void  of  the  supernatural 
clement  which  the  Bible  claims  it  must  have  in  order  to  exist." 

Go  all  over  the  wide  world,  wherever  you  will  today,  and  you  will 
find  that  the  supernatural  element  does  exist  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 

"The  commission  to  the  early  Christian  teachers  was  that  they  must  be  im- 
bued with  power  from  on  high  and  then  go  and  baptize  all  nations  in  the  name 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  power  was  always  manifested  when  they  performed 
the  deed." 

And  that  power  has  been  manifested  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
all  over  the  world. 

"The  Christian  religion  of  the  present  is  merely  a  social  code  and  has  nothing 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  it  whereby  it  could  claim  a  divine  origin.  It  is  truly  pitiable  to  behold  the 
church  religion  of  today  trying  to  save  this  sinful  world. 

"We  have  lost  our  magnet.  The  Christ  who  said  he  would  draw  all  men  to 
him  if  he  is  lifted  up  is  disobeyed  and  ignored  in  the  multiplicity  of  our  present 
church  life.  Since  we  have  presented  many  substitutes  to  the_  world  for  genu- 
ine spiritual  power,  but  they  are  of  no  more  value  in  the  saving  of  the  sinner 
than  an  artificial  heart  would  be  in  pumping  blood  through  the  arteries.  We  are 
like  men  trying  to  run  an  engine  without  steam. 

"The  church  of  today  is  the  church  of  man,  not  the  church  of  God.  I  pre- 
dict its  crashing  to  pieces  like  a  ship  on  the  rocks  before  a  heavy  sea,  in  the 
near-by  years,  unless  there  is  a  mighty  turning  to  God  in  our  ranks." 

I  announce  to  all  the  world  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  in  very  deed  the  Church  of  God,  and  that  there  are 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  who  have  been  given  this  knowledge 
just  as  absolutely  and  as  perfectly  as  I  have  it. 

"We  have  a  great,  educated,  school-made  ministry,  but  an  unconverted 
ministry." 

We  have  a  great  converted  ministry.  I  remember  on  one  occa- 
sion preaching  in  Phoenix,  with  the  late  President  John  Henry  Smith. 
The  legislature  was  in  session  at  the  time.  They  called  upon  us  at  the 
hotel  and  asked  if  we  would  condescend  to  preach,  stating  that  they  had 
rented  the  opera  house  and  would  crowd  it  to  overflowing.  As  we  were 
in  the  habit  of  renting  our  own  houses  and  generally  failing  to  get  an 
audience  we  very  kindly  condescended.  They  fulfilled  their  pledge. 
The  house  was  crowded  to  overflowing.  Some  of  the  good  people  came 
from  Mesa,  about  twenty  miles  away.  After  the  meeting  one  of  the 
Saints  told  me  that  a  man  in  front  of  her,  turned  to  his  friend,  and, 
with  the  word  "damn,"  that  some  people  claim  is  only  emphasis  and 
not  swearing,  said  with  emphasis,  "That  man  is  an  earnest  talker." 
Pretty  soon  he  said,  with  emphasis,  again:  "That  man  is  a  good 
talker."  Pretty  soon  he  said,  with  double  emphasis:  "That  man  be- 
lieves every  word  he  is  saying." 

TESTIMONY  OF  A  MINER 

On  another  occasion  I  remember  being  with  Elder  John  Henry 
Smith  and  Charles  W.  Penrose  in  Park  City.  The  opera  house  was 
filled  to  overflowing,  and  men  were  standing  up.  Someone  after- 
wards told  one  of  our  brethren  that  he  heard  a  man  sixteen  hundred 
feet  under  the  earth,  one  of  the  miners,  turn  to  his  friend  and  say: 
"Did  you  hear  those  three  'Mormons'  preach?"  "Yes."  "What  did  you 
think  of  it?"  "Oh,  I  did  not  pay  much  attention."  "Well,  I  want  to  say 
to  you,  away  down  here  sixteen  hundred  feet  in  the  earth,  that  what 
those  men  said  rings  in  my  ears.  They  said,  each  one  of  them,  they 
knew  that  God  lives,  they  knew  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  the  Son  of  God.  They  said  they  knew  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  have  been  dropping  into  their  meetings  occa- 
sionally since  then.  They  have  a  little  bit  of  a  rented  hall  but  they  have 
decided  to  organize  a  ward  here  instead  of  a  branch  and  to  build  a 
meeting  house,  and  I  have  sent  ten  dollars  in  an  envelope  'from  an  un- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


known  friend.'  There  were  no  if's,  no  and's,  no  but's,  about  what  those 
men  said.    It  was  an  absolute,  direct  declaration  of  their  faith." 

KNOWLEDGE  COUNTS  IN  TESTIMONY 

I  remember  one  occasion  when  a  professor,  who  was  studying  in 
Berlin  in  preparation  for  his  doctor's  degree,  said  to  my  daughter,  who 
was  there  studying  the  German  language,  that  it  was  a  shame  the  way 
the  three  young  elders  murdered  the  German  language,  and  how  poorly 
they  had  explained  our  faith.  He  said  that  he  had  read  a  hundred  tracts 
about  our  faith  and  all  our  Church  books,  and  he  would  be  very  glad  to 
stand  up  and  deliver  a  lecture  of  an  hour  on  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  make  a  fair  explanation  of  it.  I  was  very  glad  that  my 
young  daughter  gave  him  to  understand  that  he  did  not  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  or  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  God,  and  she  would  prefer  to  have  those  young  boys  who  murdered 
the  German  language  declare  those  three  things,  than  to  have  some- 
body explain  that  which  he  thought  was  the  faith  of  somebody  else. 

It  is  knowledge  that  counts.  I  have  had  as  high  as  twenty  mis- 
sionaries arrive  at  once  in  the  Liverpool  office,  scarcely  one  of  whom 
had  ever  stood  upon  his  feet  to  say  a  word  about  the  gospel,  and  I  have 
known  the  entire  lot  of  them  to  run  out  of  ideas  in  less  than  two  hours, 
after  I  had  told  them  that  we  sometimes  held  meetings  for  five  hours, 
and  that  they  would  be  permitted  to  speak  as  long  as  they  desired.  Those 
same  elders,  who  did  not  deliver  more  than  a  half  dozen  sentences, 
have  returned  to  the  Liverpool  office  at  the  end  of  two  years,  and  they 
have  delivered  clear-cut  sermons,  bearing  testimony  of  the  absolute 
knowledge  that  God  had  given  them  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged. 

"We  have  a  great  host  on  our  Church  rolls,  but  they  are,  with  but  few 
exceptions,  an  unconverted  host." 

We  have  a  converted  host.  It  is  very  seldom  indeed  that"  any  in- 
dividual out  in  the  world  receives  "Mormonism,"  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  except  with  the  opposition  of  family  and  friends  and  relatives. 
Very  many  young  men  have  been  turned  out  of  their  homes  by  their 
parents  for  embracing  the  gospel.  I  could  give  you  incident  after  in- 
cident where  young  men  and  young  women  have  been  cast  out  as  a  thing 
of  evil,  by  their  own  parents,  for  embracing  "Mormonism."  It  is  not 
popular.  It  has  never  been  popular,  and  nothing  short  of  an  absolute 
conversion  in  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  would  lead  them  to  embrace 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

"There  are  periods  in  the  Christian  era  we  look  back  upon  with  wonder  and 
admiration.    In  those  days  men  were  convicted  of  sin  and  a  judgment  to  come." 

In  our  day  men  are  convicted  of  sin  and  a  judgment  to  come,  and 
all  over  the  world  where  that  conviction  comes  into  their  minds  they 
go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  and 
they  do  receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"Then  the  more  than  human  element  was  visible  in  our  creeds." 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  more  than  human  element  is  visible  today  in  the  Church  of 
Christ  all  over  the  world. 

"Holy  men  had  heavenly  visions." 

Holy  men  and  holy  women  have  had  heavenly  visions  by  the  hun- 
dreds and  the  thousands  in  our  Church. 

TESTIMONY  OF  HEALING 
"Sickness  was  cured  by  spiritual  power." 

I  could  stand  here  and  relate  to  you  by  the  hour  instances  where 
sickness  has  been  cured  by  spiritual  power  in  this  Church  of  Christ, 
where  men  and  women  and  children  who  have  been  given  up  to  die 
have  been  healed  by  the  power  of  Almighty  God.  I  spoke  here  of 
Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  being  among  those  who  are  absent. 
Brother  McMurrin  was  shot  clear  through  his  vitals,  and  the  bullets 
lodged  right  under  the  skin  on  his  back.  I  heard  John  Henry  Smith 
promise  that  man,  when  blessing  him,  by  the  authority  of  the  apostle- 
.ship  of  the  living  God,  that  he  should  live  and  not  die,  as  he  had  re- 
ceived these  wounds  while  guarding  the  servants  of  the  living  God,  and 
that  there  should  be  left  upon  his  body  no  physical  weakness  because  of 
these  terrible  wounds  that  he  had  received.  I  have  it  from  the  lips  of 
Brother  McMurrin  himself  that  he  has  never  felt  any  physical  weakness 
because  of  these  wounds. 

While  relating  this  incident  in  the  Farmers'  ward,  upon  one 
occasion,  Stanley  Taylor,  the  one-armed  hackman,  arose  and  said : 
"Brother  Grant,  it  was  in  my  hack  that  Brother  McMurrin  was 
picked  up  and  carried  to  his  home.  I  heard  the  doctors  say :  "Take 
his  dying  statement,  because  no  man  ever  lived  who  was  in  such  a 
condition."  But  he  did  live.  Right  at  that  identical  time  a  man 
was  shot  in  this  city,  with  one  bullet  through  him,  exactly  where 
the  twp  went  through  Brother  McMurrin,  and  he  died  on  time. 

The  very  last  time  that  I  had  the  pleasure  of  conversing  with 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  except  the  night  before  he  died,  he 
said  : 

"Heber,  I  never  saw  you  looking  better.  I  recall  that  as  I  was 
in  the  hospital  when  you  were  operated  upon,  the  chief  surgeon,  Dr. 
Allen  Fowler,  turned  to  me  and  said :  'Mr.  Smith  you  don't  need 
to  discuss  the  possibility  or  the  probability  of  this  man  living.  He 
has  to  die.  It  would  be  a  miracle  if  he  were  restored  to  health,  and 
this  is  not  the  day  of  miracles.'  " 

I  give  to  the  Lord  Almighty  the  credit  and  the  glory,  for  it  is 
by  his  power  that  I  am  here  today.  There  were  nine  doctors  pres- 
ent when  I  was  operated  upon,  and  eight  of  them  said  I  had  to  die. 
The  nurse  told  me  this  the  day  I  was  leaving  the  hospital.  I  said : 
"I  have  no  desire  to  meet  the  eight,  but  I  would  like  to  meet  the 
ninth,  the  one  who  said  I  would  live."  I  asked  him  why  he  dis- 
agreed with  all  the  other  doctors.  He  was  a  southerner  and  he 
said  :   "Mr.  Grant,  I  just  took  a  chance,  sir.   I  have  felt  the  pulse  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRAXT 


15 


thousands  of  gentlemen  in  my  life,  but  I  never  felt  a  pulse  just  like 
yours,  sir.  That  heart  of  yours  never  missed  one,  single,  solitary  beat 
during  the  one  hour  and  three-quarters,  sir,  that  you  were  under 
the  knife,  and  I  said  to  myself :  'that  heart  will  pull  him  through' ; 
so  I  just  took  a  chance." 

ON  OBSERVING  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM — ANOTHER  TESTIMONY 

We  have  in  our  Doctrine  and  Covenants  a  revelation  which 
says : 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
tin's  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

One  of  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  that  each  and 
every  Latter-day  Saint  shall  keep  what  is  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom ;  that  we  shall  abstain  from  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  liquor. 
Had  I  not  lived  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  had  my  blood  not  been  pure. 
I  am  convinced  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  I  would  not  have 
been  entitled  to  that  wonderful  promise  contained  in  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  that  those  who  obey  this  Word  of  Wisdom  shall  be 
blessed,  and  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  them  by  as  he  did 
the  children  of  Israel  and  not  slay  them.  I  am  convinced  that  my 
heart  would  not  have  had  pure  blood,  had  I  not  fulfilled  the  law, 
and  I  would  not  be  standing  here  before  you  today. 

Upon  one  occasion  when  my  brother,  Joseph  Hyrum  Grant, 
(who  in  later  years,  presided  over  the  Davis  stake  of  Zion)  was  in 
charge  of  a  livery  stable  in  this  city,  a  number  of  employes  of  the 
Z.  C.  M.  I.  shoe  factory  were  enjoying  an  outing  at  Calder's  Park, 
now  known  as  Nibley  Park.  My  brother  who  had  charge  of  the 
transportation,  called  their  attention  to  the  fact  that  a  storm  was 
threatening,  and  he  urged  them  to  return  home,  stating  that  a  part 
of  the  road  between  the  park  and  Salt  Lake  City  was  a  turnpike  and 
there  was  danger  of  this  long  drag  being  overturned  in  a  storm  and 
in  the  darkness.  But  they  passed  a  resolution  that  they  would  hold 
the  firm  blameless  if  any  accident  occurred. 

Going  home  in  the  darkness  the  vehicle  was  overturned  and 
several  people  were  quite  seriously  injured.  One  of  the  girls  had 
a  number  of  bones  broken  and  as  a  result  of  her  injuries  and  ex- 
posure in  the  storm,  pneumonia  set  in.  The  doctor  in  attendance 
declared  that  she  could  not  live,  and  would  probably  die  before 
morning.  My  brother  felt  very  much  distressed  about  the  matter, 
having  been  the  driver  of  the  vehicle.  He  asked  me  to  go  with  him 
to  administer  to  that  girl,  stating  that  he  had  received  the  witness 
of  the  spirit  that  she  should  live. 

When  we  stepped  up  to  the  bed,  I  told  him  that  she  was  dying 
and  would  be  dead  before  we  could  get  our  hands  off  her  head.  He 
turned  deathly  pale  and  declared  that  he  had  received  a  manifesta- 
tion of  the  Lord,  and  that  he  knew,  as  he  knew  that  the  gospel  is 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


true,  that  if  we  would  bless  her  she  would  live.  We  did  bless  her, 
and  in  confirming  the  anointing  I  was  impressed  to  promise  her 
that  the  bones  should  knit,  that  she  should  be  made  well  and  go 
back  and  run  her  machine  in  the  Z.  C.  M.  I.  shoe  factory.  I  did 
not  know  that  she  had  been  running  a  machine  or  what  was  her 
work.  That  evening  I  met  the  superintendent  of  that  factory  and 
he  said :  "I  have  just  returned  from  the  home  of  Marie  DeGray, 
and  she  was  dying.  I  am  convinced  she  is  dead  by  now."  I  said : 
"Brother  Rowe,  you  go  up  into  your  office  and  sit  down  and  write : 
'Marie  DeGray  is  not  dead.  Marie  DeGray  will  not  die,  but  she 
will  get  well  and  come  back  and  run  her  machine  in  your  factory.' 
It  has  been  manifested  to  me  by  the  spirit  of  the  living  God."  He 
said :  "I  don't  need  to  write  it,  because  from  what  you  say,  I  know 
that  she  will  live." 

STILL  ANOTHER  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  HEALING  POWER 

He  then  related  to  me  an  incident  which  had  occurred  in  his 
own  family.  Said  he:  "In  London,  before  I  came  to  this  country, 
one  of  my  daughters  was  very  sick,  and  the  attending  physician 
said  she  could  not  live  till  morning."  He  sent,  as  I  remember,  three 
miles  across  the  great  city  of  London,  for  Junius  F.  Wells  and  his 
companion  to  come  and  administer  to  his  daughter,  and  she  was 
restored  to  health.  "The  next  day,"  said  Brother  Rowe.  "the  doc- 
tor came  to  my  home  and  handed  me  a  written  certificate,  duly 
signed,  stating  that  my  daughter  was  dead.  I  invited  him}  into  the 
parlor  and  introduced  him  to  the  'corpse.'  So  when  you  tell  me  that 
this  girl  will  recover,  I  accept  your  statement,  for  I  know  that  the 
healing  power  of  God  is  in  this  Church,  as  well  as  I  know  that  I 
live." 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  GIFT  OF  TONGUES 

"Holy  men  spoke  with  other  tongues  as  the  spirit  gave  them  utterance." 

Holy  men  and  holy  women  have  spoken  with  other  tongues,  as 
the  spirit  has  given  them  utterance.  One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith 
reads : 

"We  believe  in  the  gift  of  tongues,"  and  in  the  interpretation 
thereof.  Karl  G.  Maeser — than  whom  no  more  devoted  Latter- 
day  Saint  ever  lived — told  me  with  his  own  lips  of  such  an  incident 
as  I  took  a  trip  with  him  to  Baker  City.  He  said :  "Brother  Grant, 
the  night  that  I  was  baptized  I  looked  up  into  heaven  and  said : 
'Oh,  God,  I  have  found,  as  I  believe,  the  gospel  of  thy  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  I  have  rendered  obedience  to  it  by  going  down  into  the 
waters  of  baptism.  Give  to  me  a  manifestation,  give  to  me  an 
absolute  witness  of  the  spirit  that  I  have  found  the  truth,  and  I 
pledge  to  you  if  necessary  my  life  for  the  advancement  of  this 
cause.'  " 

At  that  time  Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards  was  president  of 
the  European  mission,  with  headquarters  at  Liverpool.    He  went 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


17 


over  to  Germany  to  be  present  at  the  baptism  of  the  first  converts 
to  the  gospel  in  that  great  empire.  Walking  from  the  place  where 
he  was  baptized  to  his  home,  a  distance  of  several  miles,  Brother 
Maeser  expressed  a  desire  to  converse  upon  different  principles  of 
the  gospel,  through  an  interpreter.  That  interpreter  was  Brother 
William  Budge,  afterwards  president  of  Bear  Lake  stake,  and 
finally  president  of  the  Logan  temple.  Brother  Maeser,  who  under- 
stood no  English,  asked  questions  in  German,  and  Brother  Rich- 
ards, who  understood  no  German,  answered  them  in  English ; 
Brother  Budge  interpreting  the  questions  and  answers.  After  a  few 
questions  had  been  asked  and  answered  through  the  interpreter, 
Brother  Richards  said :  "Do  not  interpret  those  questions,  I  un- 
derstand them ;"  then  Brother  Maeser  said :  "Do  not  interpret 
those  answers,  I  understand  them."  They  conversed  for  miles,  the 
questions  in  German,  the  answers  in  English ;  neither  man  under- 
standing the  language  of  the  other.  They  arrived  at  the  River 
Elbe  and  while  crossing  the  bridge  they  were  separated ;  when  they 
reached  the  other  side  Brother  Maeser  asked  another  question,  and 
Brother  Richards  said:  "Interpret  it,  Brother  Budge."  When  the 
answer  came,  Brother  Maeser  said  :  "Interpret  it."  His  next  ques- 
tion was :  "How  was  it,  Apostle  Richards,  that  we  understood  each 
other,  and  now  we  cannot  understand?"  Brother  Richards  told 
him  that  one  of  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  the 
gift  of  tongues  and  the  interpretation.  Then  he  said :  "God  has 
given  to  you  and  to  me  this  night  the  privilege  of  partaking  of  one 
of  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  by  having  the  interpretation  of  tongues. 
Brother  Maeser,  you  have  received  a  witness  from  God  that  you 
-  have  found  the  truth." 

Brother  Maeser  told  >me :  "I  trembled  like  a  leaf,  and  I  again 
raised  my  eyes  to  heaven  and  said :  'Oh,  God,  I  have  received  the 
witness  that  I  asked  for,  and  I  pledge  to  you  my  life,  if  need  be,  for 
this  cause.'  " 

Every  Latter-day  Saint  knows  that  Karl  G.  Maeser  did  give  his 
life  ;  that  he  labored  without  ceasing,  without  any  thought  of  per- 
sonal advancement,  personal  honor  or  credit,  but  he  labored  untir- 
ingly for  the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom  at  home  and  abroad, 
as  a  missionary  in  his  native  land,  and  at  the  head  of  our  great 
educational  system. 

TESTIMONY  OF  PROPHECY  THROUGH  THE  GIFT  OF  TONGUES 

When  I  was  a  child,  in  a  Relief  Society  meeting,  Eliza  R.  Snow, 
by  the  gift  of  tongues,  and  Zina  D.  Young,  by  the  interpretation 
thereof,  promised  that  child  playing  on  the  floor — in  the  home 
where  Grandma  Whitney,  my  mother,  Eliza  R.  Snow,  Zina  D. 
Young,  Clara  Kimball  and  other  leading  Relief  Society  sisters  in 
early  days  were  meeting — that  that  child  should  grow  to  man- 
hood and  become  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  My  mother 
often  said  tor  me '.    "Heber,  behave  yourself,  and  you  will  some  day 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  one  of  the  apostles  in  the  Church."  I  always  laughed  at  her  and 
said :  "Get  it  out  of  your  head.  Every  mother  thinks  her  son  will 
be  the  president  of  the  United  States  or  something  wonderful.  I 
have  no  ambitions  in  that  regard." 

When  I  was  called  to  be  one  of  the  apostles  she  asked  me  if  I 
remembered  that  meeting  in  the  home  of  the  late  William  C. 
Staines  on  the  corner  of  South  Temple  and  Fifth  East.  I  told  her 
I  did.  "Do  you  remember  anything  that  was  said?"  I  replied: 
"No."  "Well,"  she  said,  "do  you  remember  Aunt  Eliza  talking  to 
you  on  the  floor?"    I  said.    "Yes,  but  I  did  not  understand  it." 

"Of  course,  you  did  not,  because  she  spoke  by  the  gift  of  tongues." 
Then  she  said  :  "Do  you  remember  anything  that  Aunt  Zina  said?" 
"Yes.  I  do.  mother.  I  remember  that  she  lifted  her  hand  and  said 
that  I  would  become  a  great  big  man." 

So  when  I  became  tall  I  used  to  think  of  it  occasionally,  that 
Aunt  Zina  said  I  would  be  a  big  man.  My  mother  responded  :  "She 
said  nothing  of  the  kind ;  she  said  you  would  be  a  great  big  man  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  you  would  be 
an  apostle."  That  is  why  I  have  told  you,  knowing  that  the  gift  of 
tongues  was  in  the  Church. 

I  wish  to  say  to  you  that  my  wife,  who  is  dead,  prom|ised  me, 
by  the  gift  of  tongues,  that  I  should  live  to  proclaim  this  gospel  in 
many  lands  and  in  many  climes,  and  after  she  passed  away,  and  at 
a  time  when  eight  doctors  out  of  nine  said  I  had  to  die,  I  had  not 
then  proclaimed  this  gospel  "in  many  lands  and  in  many  climes,"  but 
I  recovered,  and  since  then  I  have  lifted  up  my  voice  in  the  far-off  land 
of  Japan,  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales, 
Germany,  France,  Belgium,  Holland.  Switzerland,  Norway,  Sweden, 
Denmark,  Canada  and  Mexico,  bearing  witness  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  tha*.  every  gift, 
every  grace,  every  power  that  this  man  says  should  be  in  the  true 
Church  of  Christ,  is  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  have  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

That  God  may  help  me  and  you  and  every  soul  within  the 
sound  of  my  voice  who  has  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  Gos- 
pel of  Christ  so  to  live  it  that  other  men,  seeing  our  devotion  and 
seeing  our  integrity  and  our  determination  to  live  the  lives  of  saints 
may  be  inspired  to  investigate  the  message  that  we  have  to  bear  to 
them,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  all  humility,  and  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 


Solo,  "Come  ye  blessed,"  was  sung  by  Jessie  Evans.. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


19 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  and  praise  to  the  Lord,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  I  stand  befqre  this  vast  congregation  and  observe  what 
President  Nibley  just  called  my  attention  to,  that  it  is  made  up  largely 
of  men.  As  I  think  of  it,  it  would  appear  almost  unnecessary  that  I 
express  the  thoughts  which  I  desired  to  present  to  you.  I  shall  read 
first  from  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Zechariah,  as  I  wish  to  make  his 
words  the  basis  of  the  brief  remarks  that  I  expect  to  make. 

SPEAK  THE  TRUTH 

"These  are  the  things  that  ye  shall  do ;  Speak  ye  every  man  the  truth  to 
his  neighbor;  execute  the  judgment  of  truth  and  peace  in  your  gates: 

"And  let  none  of  you  imagine  evil  in  your  hearts  against  his  neighbor  ;  and 
love  no  false  oath :  for  all  these  are  things  that  I  hate,  saith  the  Lord." 
(Zechariah  8:16-17.) 

THE  CHURCH  CRITICISED 

It  is  now  nearly  one  hundred  years  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  effected.  Three  years  hence  and  a  century 
will  have  elapsed  since  that  event  occurred.  From  the  time  of  its  organ- 
ization the  Church,  and  those  who  make  up  its  membership,  have  been 
misunderstood  and  misrepresented. 

The  Church  has  been  referred  to  as  an  organization  founded  upon 
a  pernicious  superstition  and  delusion,  and  the  man  who  was  chosen 
to  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  the  opening  of  the  pres- 
ent gospel  dispensation  and  organization  of  the  Church,  as  either  a 
wilful  imposter  or  a  deluded  incompetent. 

Those  who  have  identified  themselves  with  the  Church,  and  make 
up  its  membership,  have  been  accused  of  establishing  a  new  form  of 
religion,  a  religion  founded  upon  Mosaic  law,  following  the  creed  of 
Islam,  rather  than  the  gospel  plan  as  it  was  taught  by  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  They  have  been  ridiculed,  abused  and  persecuted,  in  some 
instances  unto  death. 

At  this  period  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  after  its  doctrines  have 
been  before  the  world  for  a  century,  and  its  history  and  accomplish- 
ments are,  or  should  be,  well  understood,  it  would  be  supposed  that  these 
criticisms  and  misrepresentations  would  have  ceased,  and  it  is  obvious 
that  where  they  are  resorted  to,  it  is  the  result  either  of  inexcusable 
ignorance,  or  wilful  desire  to  deceive  those  who  are  not  well  informed 
as  to  the  truth,  which  in  either  case  would  be  wrong,  because  no  one  is 
justified  in  sitting  in  judgment  upon  another  where  the  merits  of  the 
case  are  not  understood,  and  wilfully  to  misrepresent  the  truth  is  a 
very  grave  offense. 

That  the  campaign  of  misrepresentation,  ridicule  and  abuse,  the 
methods  to  which  people  always  resort,  when  reason  and  argument  fail, 
is  still  being  vigorously  prosecuted  is  evidenced  by  the  following  to 
which  I  desire  to  call  your  attention.    These  clippings  from  which  I 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


am  about  to  read  are  only  a  few  from  the  many  which  I  have  collected 
during  the  past  year. 

AN  EXAMPLE 

"There  are  many  signs,"  this  speaker  says,  "having  the  appear- 
ance of  being  hopeful  that  the  old  'Mormondom'  known  in  the  days  of 
Brigham  Young  is  crumbling  and  that  a  new  system  slightly  nearer  the 
Christian  ideal  is  being  built  up.  Many  'Mormons,'  not  of  the  old 
school,  no  longer  regard  Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet  with  a  mission 
from  God,  which  Joseph  Smith  claimed,  and  many  do  not  accept  the 
present  heads  of  the  Church  as  called  of  God.  The  present  leaders  of 
the  Church  would  nor.  dare  to  represent  themselves  as  the  mouthpiece 
of  God  to  the  membership.  Apostasy  among  the  male  portion  of  the 
membership  is  growing  fast,  and  the  Church  would  have  been  bankrupt 
seven  years  ago  if  it  were  not  for  the  women  and  children  who  alone  pay 
tithes." 

The  speaker  held  up  to  ridicule  certain  of  the  "Mormon"  pioneers 
and  made  fun  of  what  he  deemed  as  the  superstition  of  the  "Mormon" 
doctrines.  The  alleged  betrayal  of  women  by  "Mormons"  was  de- 
picted as  were  methods  which  he  declared  existed  early  in  Southern 
Utah  history  where  the  "Mormons"  hurled  Gentiles  from  the-  cliffs. 
The  audience  which  listened  to  these  remarks  loudly  applauded  them. 

A  REPLY  TO  THE  ACCUSATIONS 

If  these  statements  were  true,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  might 
be  some  justification  for  the  hope  expressed  by  the  minister  who  ut- 
tered them  that  the  bulwarks  of  the  Church  are  crumbling,  that  the 
time  is  coming,  and  is  not  far  distant,  when  it  will  collapse,  and  the 
fond  hopes  of  those  who  have  opposed  it  from  the  beginning  will  be 
realized.  But  fortunately  for  the  Church,  and  unfortunately  for  those 
who  oppose  it,  this  is  not  the  case. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  A  CHRISTIAN  COMMUNITY 

The  inference  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  not  a  Christian  organization  is  too  absurd  to  require  any  extended 
comment.  The  foundation  upon  which  the  Church  rests  is  faith  in 
God  the  eternal  Father,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  constitute  the  God-head.  The  Church  teaches  and  its  members 
testify  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  by  him  the  worlds 
were  created,  and  that  through  the  redemption  wrought  out,  because 
of  the  atonement  which  he  made,  all  mankind  are  redeemed  from  death, 
the  penalty  which  was  pronounced  upon  our  father  Adam  because  of 
transgression,  and  that  through  obedience  to  the  doctrines  which  he 
taught  we  may  be  redeemed  from  personal  sin.  We  bear  witness  to 
the  world  that  there  is  no  other  name  under  heaven,  nor  is  there  any 
other  means  by  which  man  can  attain  to  glory,  exaltation  and  eternal 
life  except  through  the  medium  of  Christ  our  Lord. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


21 


APOSTASY  NOT  GROWING 

If  apostasy  is  growing  fast  we  are  not  aware  of  it,  and  the  careful 
record  which  is  kept  of  those  who  become  members  of  the  Church,  and 
those  who  withdraw  from  it,  would  certainly  provide  this  information 
were  it  true.  It  is  true  that  not  all  who  obey  the  gospel  and  identify 
themselves  with  the  Church  remain  steadfast  in  the  faith,  and  it  has 
always  been  so,  but  there  are  fewer  in  number  who  go  back  to  the  world 
and  its  devious  paths  than  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church.  A  net 
cast  into  the  sea,  the  Savior  says,  gathers  fish  of  all  kinds,  and  the 
Church  in  this  dispensation  does  not  differ  from  the  Primitive  Church 
in  that  respect. 

TITHES  ARE  PAID  BY  MEN  AND  WOMEN 

If  the  statement  that  only  women  and  children  pay  tithes,  and  but 
for  thern  the  Church  would  have  been  bankrupt  seven  years  ago  is  true, 
the  women  and  children  are  entitled  to  great  credit,  for  it  chanced  just 
at  the  time  that  this  statement  was  made  that  the  tithes  paid  showed 
greater  returns  for  the  year  than  ever  before  in  the  history  of  the 
Church. 

STRONG  BELIEF  IN  THE  DIVINE  MISSION  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

If  it  is  true,  as  stated,  that  the  members  of  the  Church  no  longer 
regard  Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet,  with  a  message  from  God  to  the 
people  of  the  world,  and  that  the  men  who  preside  over  the  Church 
are  no  longer  recognized  as  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  to  the  mem- 
bership, then  indeed  are  we  without  hope,  for  we  are  immediately  re- 
duced to  the  c'ondition  of  these  critics.  The  Lord  has  declared  that 
where  there  is  no  revelation  and  prophecy  the  people  perish. 

Never  before  since  the  organization  of  the  Church  has  there  been 
such  overwhelming  proof  of  the  divine  calling  of  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  the  inspiration  of  his  successors  in  office  as  at  the  present 
time,  for  the  past  century  has  not  proved  him,  or  them,  to  have  been 
wrong,  while  it  has  added  greatly  to  the  evidence  which  existed  at  the 
time  the  Church  was  founded,  both  from  a  scriptural  and  historical 
point  of  view  to  prove  that  he  was  divinely  called  to  do  the  work  which 
he  accomplished. 

PROPHECIES  ON  THE  LATTER-DAY  DISPENSATION 

During  his  personal  ministry  but  few  people  accepted  Jesus  Christ 
as  the  Son  of  God  and  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Notwithnstanding  the 
fact  that  the  Jewish  people  were  looking  forward  to  the  coming  of 
their  Messiah,  they  rejected  Christ,  and  have  vainly  looked  forward  for 
the  coming  of  another  since  the  time  of  his  appearing.  Another  has 
not  come,  and  will  not  come  until  he  shall  return  to  reign  in  power, 
majesty  and  dominion  upon  the  earth.  Then,  and  not  until  then,  will 
Judah  fully  appreciate  the  error  of  his  rejection. 

Just  as  definitely  as  the  prophets  had  foretold  the  coming  of  the 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Christ,  and  the  work  which  he  was  to  accomplish,  the  greatest  accom- 
plishment since  the  creation  of  man,  for  it  involved  the  redemption  of 
mankind  from  the  fallen  condition  into  which  transgression  had  plunged 
them,  so  definitely  did  they  foretell  the  coming  of  another  epochal 
event,  second  only  to  the  appearance  of  the  Messiah  himself. 

The  time  of  its  accomplishment  was  at  a  period  referred  to  as  the 
latter  days,  a  time  when  spiritual  darkness  would  cover  the  earth,  and 
gross  darkness  the  minds  of  the  people.  A  time  when  the  laws  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ  would  be  transgressed,  the  ordinances  of  his  Church 
changed,  and  the  everlasting  covenant  broken. 

At  this  time,  when  these  conditions  prevailed,  the  Lord,  just  prior 
to  his  crucifixion,  declared  to  his  disciples  that  a  light  would  break  forth 
among  those  who  sit  in  darkness,  which  light  would  be  the  fulness  of  his 
everlasting  gospel,  a  light  which  the  people  of  the  world  at  large  would 
not  perceive,  and  from  which  they  would  turn  because  of  the  precepts 
of  men. 

John,  the  beloved  disciple  of  our  Lord,  looking  forward  to  that 
time,  tells  us  that  the  opening  of  this  greatest  of  all  gospel  dispensa- 
tions, greatest  because  the  Lord  has  said  that  in  it  he  will  gather  all 
things  together  in  one,  and  consummate  his  work,  would  be  ushered  in  by 
an  angel  whom  he  saw  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven  having  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people. 

While  the  primary  purpose  of  this  restoration  was  to  prepare  the 
world  for  the  second  coming  of  the  Redeemer,  and  bring  all  people, 
Jew  and  Gentile,  atheist,  infidel  and  professed  Christian,  to  recognition 
of  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  submission  to  his  will, 
there  were  certain  well  defined  purposes  to  be  accomplished  before  this 
is  to  be  consummated. 

Scattered  Israel  is  to  be  gathered  and  established  in  the  land  given 
to  them  to  be  an  everlasting  inheritance,  in  accordance  with  the  promise 
made  by  the  Lord  to  Abraham,  and  repeated  to  his  sons  Isaac  and  Jacob. 
The  promise  sealed  upon  the  head  of  Joseph,  the  son  of  Jacob,  when 
the  latter  sealed  the  heirship  of  that  branch  upon  the  head  of  Ephraim, 
and  extended  the  promise  which  had  already  been  made  to  the  utmost 
bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills,  a  promise  which  is  being  fulfilled,  as 
witnessed  in  the  coming  together  of  this  great  congregation,  whose 
genealogy  traces  direct  to  Ephraim.  Judah  is  to  re-possess  Palestine, 
the  Promised  Land  of  his  fathers.  The  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house 
is  to  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  be  exalted  above 
the  hills,  and  many  people  are  to  be  gathered  to  it  in  order  that  they 
may  be  taught  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 

The  prophet  Isaiah,  speaking  of  the  House  of  Israel,  says : 

"Thou  shalt  be  brought  down,  and  shalt  speak  out  of  the  ground,  and  thy 
speech  shall  be  low  out  of  the  dust,  and  thy  voice  shall  be,  as  of  one  that  hath  a 
familiar  spirit,  out  of  the  ground,  and  thy  speech  shall  whisper  out  of  the  dust. 
*    *    And  the  vision  of  all  is  become  unto  you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that  is 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS 


23 


sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  that  is  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I  pray  thee : 
and  he  saith,  I  cannot ;  for  it  is  sealed : 

"And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him  that  is  not  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I 
pray  thee :  and  he  saith,  I  am  not  learned.  Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch 
as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me. 
but  have  removed  their  hearts  far  from  ine,  and  their  fear  toward  me  is  taught 
by  the  precept  of  men : 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  peo- 
ple, even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder :  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

Referring  to  the  same  period  the  prophet  Ezekiel  says : 

"Moreover,  thou  son  of  man,  take  thee  one  stick,  and  write  upon  it,  For  Judah, 
and  for  the  children  of  Israel  his  companions :  then  take  another  stick,  and  write 
upon  it,  For  Joseph,  the  stick  of  Ephraim,  and  for  all  the  house  of  Israel  his  com- 
panions:  And  join  them  one  to  another  into  one  stick;  and  they  shall  become 
one  in  thine  hand." 

THE  PROPHECIES  FULFILLED 

If  the  events,  to  which  the  scripture,  to  which  I  have  referred, 
have  not  occurred,  if  Ephraim  is  not  being  gathered  to  the  tops  of  the 
mountains,  where  they  are  being  taught  the  way  of  the  Lord  that  they 
may  walk  in  his  paths,  if  the  Jews  are  not  beginning  to  re-possess  Pal- 
estine, the  Promised  land,  if  the  house  of  Israel  has  not  been  brought 
down,  and  has  spoken  low  out  of  the  dust,  with  the  voice  of  a  familiar 
spirit,  if  an  angel  has  not  restored  the  everlasting  gospel  to  be  preached 
to  all  nations,  if  the  record  of  Judah  and  of  Ephraim  have  not  come 
together  for  the  purpose  of  uniting  the  entire  Israelitish  family,  if 
these  things  have  not  occurred  I  say,  then  we  must  look  to  the  future 
for  their  accomplishment,  for  they  are  the  unchangeable  decrees  of  the 
Lord,  and  his  word  never  fails. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  the  record  which  was  delivered  to  Joseph 
Smith,  and  which  was  translated  by  him,  and  published  to  the  world  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  was  the  record  of  the  stick  of  Ephraim.  The 
Bible  is  the  record  of  the  hand-dealing  of  the  Lord  with  the  House  of 
Judah.  The  two  have  been  brought  together  to  the  confounding  of 
false  doctrine,  both  bearing  witness,  as  they  do,  to  the  divine  mission  of 
Christ  our  Lord. 

When  the  keys  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood  were  conferred  upon 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  later  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood under  the  hands  of  Peter,  James  and  John,  the  words  of  John 
the  divine  were  fulfilled,  for  authority  was  restored  to  earth  to  preach 
the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  and  administer  all  of  the  ordinances  of  the 
Church. 

OUR  CLAIM,  TESTIMONY  AND  APPEAL 

The  restored  Church  has  never  resorted  to  ridicule,  abuse  or  mis- 
representation. It  has  never  persecuted  any  person  because  of  his  or 
her  religious  belief,  nor  any  person  because  he  had  no  religious  con- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


victions.  it  is  true  that  its  members  have  been  drawn  from  other 
denominations,  and  from  among  people  who  were  not  professors  of  re- 
ligion at  all.  We  pray  for  all  men  who  seek  to  do  good,  for  it  is  a  part 
of  our  creed  that  everything  which  is  good,  or  induces  men  to  do  good 
cometh  of  God. 

We  do,  however,  claim  the  right  to  carry  the  message  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  to  all  men ;  it  is  our  mission,  as  it  was  the  mission  of  the 
disciples  of  Christ.  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  he  said  to  his  disciples, 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature,  he  that  believeth  and  is  bap- 
tized shall  be  saved,  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned. 

We  bear  testimony  to  all  people  that  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely 
called  to  the  work  which  he  accomplished.  That  he  was  not  an  im- 
poster,  but  a  chosen  vessel  of  the  Lord.  That  he  did  receive  the  plates 
which  contained  the  record  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  translated  them 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God.  We  do  not  expect  all  people  to  accept 
the  message  which  we  bear,  it  would  be  contrary  to  prophecy  if  they 
did. 

We  do,  however,  appeal  to  those  who  differ  from  us  to  speak  the 
truth,  that  honest  men  and  women  be  not  led  astray  by  their  sophistry 
and  misrepresentations.  Time  will  determine  who  is  right,  and  we  abide 
the  verdict  of  the  future  for  our  vindication. 

May  the  Lord  our  God  keep  us  all  in  the  path  of  truth,  righteous- 
ness, and  virtue,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Telephone  calls  from  various  parts  of  the  state  report  exceptionally 
fine  radio  reception  this  morning.  Reports  from  Provo  are  to  the 
effect  that  the  lower  floor  of  the  Provo  tabernacle  is  crowded  and  the 
people  are  hearing  every  word. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang,  "The  Inflammatus,"  Laurinda 
Brewerton,  soloist. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  H.  Melvin  Rollins,  presi-  . 
dent  of  the  Lyman  stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  announced 
that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of 
God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

After  the  singing  the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  James 
Robert  Price,  president  of  the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Grant  us  peace." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IV INS 


25 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

Here  is  a  printed  card  of  radio  instructions  which  reads,  The  speaker 
is  to  speak  in  a  conversational  tone.  He  must  not  shout,  he  must  not 
get  too  far  away  from  this  little  microphone — "Little  Mike,"  as  they 
call  it — and  he  must  not  strike  the  pulpit  because  this  fellow  objects  to 
being  jarred. 

The  thought  occurred  to  me  that  probably  in  a  short  time  instruc- 
tions will  be  given  advising  the  speaker  not  to  speak  too  loud  because 
the  natives  of  Australia  or  the  natives  of  Africa,  listening  in,  haven't 
the  same  kind  of  ear-drums  as  ours,  and  you  may  hurt  them. 

Such  may  be  the  developments  of  science. 

THE  SAINTS  BETTER  UNDERSTOOD 

I  have  been  interested  in  the  proceedings  of  this  conference.  I  am 
delighted  to  see  this  magnificent  audience,  notwithstanding  the  rain 
storm.  It  takes  more  than  xain  to  keep  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  a 
conference.  We  have  heard  of  those  who  criticize  this  work,  and  we 
have  seen  all  through  our  lives  the  opposition  that  has  been  manifested 
to  it.  This  opposition,  however,  is  being  overcome  by  the  gradual 
growth  and  spread  of  intelligence  and  knowledge  regarding  us,  so  that 
we  are  becoming  better  understdod  and  appreciated. 

PERSISTENCE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

From  the  very  beginning  the  world  has  been  at  a  loss  to  account 
for  "Mormonism."  Only  the  other  day  we  had  in  the  President's  of- 
fice a  distinguished  visitor.  •  He  said  he  had  been  at  our  tabernacle,  en- 
joyed our  services,  noted  the  class  of  people;  and  what  he  had  heard 
and  seen,  including  his  observation  of  the  developments  that  were  be- 
ing made  here  by  the  Church,  and  the  people  of  the  Church,  had  im- 
pressed upon  his  mind  the  thought  that  there  was  something  more  to 
this  than  he  had  ever  imagined. 

In  the  days  of  the  prophet,  when  he  was  laying  the  foundations  of 
this  great  work,  he  had  few  friends  indeed.  On  every  hand  he  met  ridi- 
cule, contumely,  hatred,  persecution,  mobbing,  tar  and  feathers.  All 
through  his  life  such  was  his  portion  and  you  can  easily  understand 
how  painful  it  was  to  endure  it.  Surely  he  did  not  get  much  out  of 
it  in  a  worldly  way,  and  yet  he  stood  firm,  and  accomplished  the  work 
which  the  Lord  gave  him  to  do.  It  was  said  in  his  day :  "This  man 
Joseph  Smith  is  something  of  a  marvel.  He  is  a  leader.  He  carries 
people  with  him,  but  when  he  dies,  that  will  be  the  end  of  'Mormon- 
ism.' "  Well,  he  was  martyred  with  his  brother;  the  Saints  were  driven, 
and  a  new  leader — Brigham  Young — took  hold  of  the  reins. 

I  recall  very  well,  as  a  boy  in  Brigham  City,  working  in  the  hotel, 
when,  noted  travelers  stayed  there — railroad  builders — such  men  as 
Stanford,  Huntington  and  others  of  that  class.  I  heard  them  discuss- 
ing this  very  point.   I  was  only  19  years  of  age,  but  I  kept  my  ears  open. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


They  marveled  at  the  wonderful  capacity  of  Brigham  Young  as  a 
leader,  but  they  concluded — and  that  rather  surprised  me — they  con- 
cluded that  when  Brigham  Young  should  die,  that  would  be  the  end  of 
the  whole  thing ;  it  would  all  go  to  pieces. 

Well,  it  will  be  50  years  this  very  year  since  Brigham  Young  died. 
We  have  had  five  presidents  since  that  time.  President  Grant  being  the 
fifth,  and  still  this  thing  called  "Mormonism"  persists.  Not  only  so, 
but  it  is  greater  today  than  it  ever  was.  It  is  more  powerful,  has  more 
influence.  It  is  richer,  it  is  stronger  in  faith,  and  more  potent  in  every 
way  for  good,  for  righteousness,  than  ever  before  since  the  day  that  the 
prophet  had  the  first  great  manifestation  from  heaven. 

THE  POWER  THAT  LEADS  AND  GUIDES 

What  power  is  it  that  brings  you  here?  I  never  saw  a  congrega- 
tion like  this  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  Religious  congregations  which 
I  have  attended  elsewhere  are  very  largely  composed  of  ladies,  not  men. 
Our  good  sisters  more  naturally  take  to  spiritual  longings  and  spiritual 
life  than  men  do.  In  religious  circles  everywhere  else  the  ladies  pre- 
dominate. But  look  at  this  congregation.  Here  you  see  strong,  virile, 
hard-headed,  forward-looking,  determined  men.  They  know  what  they 
are  about.  They  are  cultured,  they  are  well  read.  They  have  traveled 
as  missionaries  more  than  any  other  people  have  traveled.  So  that  I 
say  they  are  better  informed,  more  cultured,  and  have  had  more  advan- 
tages of  education  which  comes  from  travel  than  any  body  of  men  that 
can  be  picked  in  any  state  or  territory  of  all  the  United  States.  Hence 
they  are  not  the  kind  of  people  who  can  be  misled.  They  are  not  mis- 
informed.   On  the  contrary,  they  know  what  they  are  about. 

What  power,  then,  what  mysterious  power  is  it  that  has  led  and 
guided  them  and  that  still  leads  and  guides  them  and  holds  them  to- 
gether as  they  are  held?  Let  me  tell  you  what  it  is.  I  will  read  from 
the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  84 : 

"And  this  greater  priesthood  administereth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the  key 
of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  Gcd. 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is. manifest. 

"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  priesthood, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto  man  in  the  flesh." 

That  is  what  holds  these  people  together — the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood. And  in  the  administration  of  it  we  have  seen  and  do  see  the 
power  of  godliness;  not  a  form  of  godliness,  mind  you,  but  the  power 
of  godliness.  Paul  said  that  in  the  latter  days  men  would  be  "having 
a  form  of  godliness  but  denying  trfe  power  thereof ;"  but  what  I  refer 
to  is  the  power  of  godliness.  Have  you  ever  seen  it  manifested  in  your 
lives?  We  heard  of  it  this  morning  from  the  leader  of  the  Church  as 
manifested  in  the  healing  of  the  sick.  We  see  it  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord;  we  see  it  in  the  sick  rooms;  we  see  it  manifested  in  presidencies 
cf  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards. 

In  all  the  leadership  of  the  priesthood  you  see  that  same  power  of 
godliness.    This  is  a  little  different  from  the  overruling  and  general 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


27 


power  of  God  that  is  over  all  nations  and  peoples.  "He  hath  made  of 
one  blood  all  nations  for  to  dwell  on  the  face  of  the  earth  and  fixed 
the  bounds  of  their  habitations."  That  is  the  overruling  power  of  God 
in  all  nations.  We  can  trace  it  readily  in  this  nation  from  the  days  of 
Washington,  and  even  before,  down  to  the  present  day.  The  power  of 
God  is  with  this  nation.  But  this  power  of  the  Priesthood,  that  the  Lord 
defines  in  this  scripture  that  I  have  read,  is  just  a  little  different.  It 
is  the  power  of  godliness,  of  godly  lives.  It  is  the  power  of  godly  men 
and  godly  women,  through  the  ordinances  of  the  Priesthood  made  mani- 
fest ;  and  everyone  shares  in  it. 

WE  HAVE  THE  WORDS  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE 

If  I  should  ask  you  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  priests,  teachers 
and  deacons,  who  hold  the  priesthood,  to  arise,  it  would  be  seen  that 
practically  every  one  here  holds  the  Priesthood,  which,  as  I  have  read 
to  you,  contains  and  holds  and  reveals  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of 
God.   That  is  what  the  world  lacks,  that  is  what  they  haven't  got. 

President  Ivins  told  us  this  morning  about  those  people  who  have 
passed  resolutions  against  us,  and  who  say  there  is  going  to  be  a  great 
apostasy,  there  is  little  or  no  tithing  paid,  and  all  that.  Why,  I  have 
heard  that  sort  of  stuff  all  my  life.  It  is  not  worth  listening  to.  They 
say  "These  'Mormon'  people  will  get  rid  of  all  that  foolishness,  and 
those  visions  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  prophets,  and  they  will 
come  over  to  us."  Come  over  to  you !  What  in  the  name  of  common 
sense  have  you  to  offer?  Husks — merely  a  form  of  godliness — no 
power  in  it ;  never  was,  never  will  be.  It  isn't  there.  We  are  sorry  for 
you,  brothers.  We  would  be  glad  to  help  you.  We  have  no  ill  will,  no 
ill  feelings ;  but  when  you  talk  of  our  leaving  what  we  know  we  have, 
and  going  over  to  you — oh,  please  don't  mention  it.  We  can  say  as  Peter 
said  to  the  Savior,  when  many  could  not  stand  the  strong  doctrine  that 
the  Savior  laid  down.    I  will  quote : 

"From  that  time  many  of  his  disciples  went  hack,  and  walked  no  more 
with  him. 

"Then  said  Jesus  unto  the  Twelve,  Will  ye  also  go  away? 

"Then  Simon  Peter  answered  him,  Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  Thou  hast 
the  words  of  eternal  life. 

"And  we  believe  and  are  sure  that  thou  art  that  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God." 

That  is  what  we  have  here — "the  words  of  eternal  life,"  the  power 
of  godliness  made  manifest  to  men  in  the  flesh.  Do  you  see  that  power 
of  godliness  made  manifest  anywhere  else  in  the  world?  Look  around 
you  and  see  if  you  can  find  it.  I  haven't  seen  it  elsewhere,  but  I  do 
know  it  is  here.  I  see  it  here  every  day  of  my  life.  I  have  seen  this 
power  made  manifest  in  the  mission  field  very  often. 

THE  MISSIONARY  AND  HIS  FLOCK 

Only  the  other  day  I  received  a  letter  from  a  young  missionary  in 
a  foreign  country,  and  he  told  me  he  had  often  heard  the  elders  who 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


returned  from  missions  say  that  about  the  hardest  part  of  their  mission 
was  to  leave  their  field  of  labor.  He  said :  "I  never  believed  them,  but 
last  night  we  held  a  meeting  at  which  Elder  So  and  So  was  presiding, 
and  now  I  know  it  is  true." 

This  elder  had  been  released  to  return  home.  He  had  built  up  a 
little  branch  of  some  twenty  members  in  the  two  or  three  years  that 
he  had  been  there.  They  were  his  flock.  They  had  partaken  of  his 
spirit.  He  had  brought  them  from  darkness  into  light.  For,  let  me  tell 
you,  darkness  covers  the  earth  today,  spiritual  darkness,  in  the  absence 
of  the  knowledge  of  God.  People  do  not  know  it,  but  darkness  covers 
the  earth  and  gross  darkness  the  minds  of  the  people.  This  is  a  light 
shining  in  darkness,  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not.  They  do 
not  know  it,  but  it  is  here  just  as  truly  as  the  Savior  said  it  would  be. 
And  so  this  young  man,  when  bidding  adieu  to  his  little  flock,  told  them 
how  he  had  been  called  on  that  mission;  how  keenly  his  parents  had 
felt  to  see  him  leave  home,  because  of  the  tenderness  and  love  in  their 
hearts  for  him :  how  it  had  taken  of  his  means  very  considerably  to  go 
there  and  stay  two  years  and  more;  and  what  joy  he  had  had,  notwith- 
standing all  the  sacrifices,  in  bringing  that  little  flock  into  the  fold. 

They  had  partaken  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  key  of  the  knowledge 
of  God,  and  now  he  was  to  leave  them.  They  had  in  their  hearts  bound- 
less gratitude  towards  him.  They  were  in  tears  ;he  was  in  tears  with  them. 
That  was  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  and  the  spirit  of  godliness,  the  power 
of  godliness,  made  manifest  before  that  people.  I  mention  this  to  show 
that  it  exists  in  the  mission  field  and  here  at  home,  where  we  work  for 
it,  just  as  strongly  as  it  ever  did  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  THE  POWER  THAT  LEADS 

Let  me  read  just  another  portion  of  this  same  revelation.  By  the 
way,  this  revelation  was  given  in  1832,  when  some  of  the  first  elders 
had  returned  from  short  missions  and  were  telling  of  this  very  kind  of 
experience  to  the  prophet,  and  he  inquired  of  the  Lord  and  received 
this  revelation: 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of  which  I 
have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling  (don't  forget  that,  brethren)  are 
sanctified  by  the  spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  \braham 
and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 

''And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the  Lord  ■ 
ror  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  father ; ' 

I  "^ww6  thal  rtceiv,ethu  ml  Father  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
lore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him. 

hood"And  thiS  acCOrding  to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the  priest- 

"Therefore  all  those  who  receive  the  priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved." 

That  is  the  power  that  leads  and  governs  this  Church  if  the  people 
want  to  know  it.  That  is  what  brings  you  here;  that  is  what  holds 
you  together.    That  is  what  impels  us  to  go  on  missions  and  <Wve  of 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


29 


our  lives  to  the  work.  These  people  say,  "We  will  call  these  'Mormons' 
over  and  they  will  come  to  us."  I  think  of  the  words  of  Hamlet  in  the 
play :  "Could  you  this  fair  mountain  leave  to  feed  and  batten  on 
this  moor?"    I  don't  think  so.    They  won't  get  many. 

THE  POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD  PARAMOUNT 

Now,  my  friends,  just  one  word  and  I  close.  I  am  glad  to  know 
of  the  great  work  that  is  done  by  the  Boy  Scouts.  Splendid!  I 
hope  it  will  be  kept  up.  But  I  would  like  to  say  to  you  presidents  of 
stakes  and  bishops — bishops  especially,  for  they  preside  over  the  lesser 
priesthood:  In  all  the  fine  work  of  the  Boy  Scouts,  don't  forget  the 
deacons'  quorums,  nor  the  teachers,  nor  the  priests.  We  approve  of  the 
good  work  that  is  done  in  other  directions.  "If  there  is  anything 
lovely,  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things." 
They  are  a  part  of  our  religion.  But  let  it  be  understood  now  and  for- 
ever in  our  hearts  that  the  paramount  thing  is  the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God,  the  knowledge  of  God ;  for  the  Savior  himself 
said :  "And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only 
true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent." 

A  man  is  spiritually  alive  who  has  that  knowledge.  We  have  it 
and  we  can  keep  it  if  we  will  magnify  our  callings.  Therefore,  magnify 
the  Priesthood,  glorify  the  priesthood  from  the  president  of  the  Church 
down  to  the  last  deacon.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  enjoyed  greatly  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference ;  the  valiant  testimony  of  our  President,  and  the  splendid 
analysis  of  present-day  conditions  by  President  Ivins  this  morning,  and 
the  declaration  of  unshakable  faith  by  President  Nibley,  this  afternoon. 
I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  that  which  has  been  spoken. 

AN  EVIDENCE  OF  THE  GENUINENESS  OF  THE  WORK 

It  is  an  evidence  of  the  genuineness  of  this  work,  that  we  can 
gather  here  in  large  numbers,  from  conference  to  conference,  to  hear 
taught  the  same,  simple  principles.  They  must  be  true,  otherwise  we 
would  not  be  satisfied  to  come  here,  time  and  time  again,  to  hear  ex- 
pounded the  few,  easily  understood  truths  of  the  gospel.  If  a  man  eat 
good  wholesome  food  regularly,  his  body  is  kept  in  good  condition  and 
he  feels  well;  physical  happiness  is  his.  If  he  has  access  to  truth,  ac- 
cepts it  and  practices  it  regularly,  he  becomes  spiritually  contented.  So 
I  feel  that  these  great  gatherings,  continually  growing  in  numbers  and 
importance,  form  a  mighty  evidence  of  the  correctness  of  the  latter-day 
work,  established  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet. 

I  am  glad  to  know  that  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  is 
not  beyond  my  reach.  A  few  principles,  relatively,  constitute  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ ;  they  are  given  for  the  definite  purpose  of  bringing 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


happiness  and  joy  to  man  in  this  life  and  in  the  life  hereafter,  it  is 
possible  for  a  man  to  obey  all  of  them.  The  Lord  has  so  ordained  it 
that,  in  giving  his  spiritual  laws,  they  are  within  the  easy  comprehension 
rind  full  power  of  all  honest  men  and  women. 

WE  SHOULD  PRACTICE  ALL  THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  should  like  to  impress  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  must, 
as  a  body  of  worshipers,  receivers  of  the  Latter-day  truth,  accept  and 
practice  as  best  we  can  all  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  observe  a  tend- 
ency to  make  a  selection  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  to  say: 
"This  one  I  like  and  shall  practice;  that  one  I  am  not  so  thoroughly 
converted  to,  and  I  shall  not  practice  it."  The  object  of  the  gospel,  hu- 
man happiness,  may  be  won  only  if  one  practices  completely  the  set  of 
laws  and  principles  which  we  call  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Let  me  draw  a  comparison  from  the  physical  world.  The  white 
light  that  comes  from  the  sun  is  made  up  of  many  colors,  varying  from 
violet,  through  all  the  colors,  to  deep  red.  If  we  take  all  these  colors 
and  mix  them  carefully,  pure  white  light  appears,  but  if  one  color  is 
missing,  the  resulting  light  is  impure.  Even  so  with  the  great  spirit- 
ual spectrum ;  only  when  all  the  principles  of  the  gospel  are  practiced 
with  all  our  might,  are  we  able  to  win  for  ourselves  the  spiritual  con- 
tentment and  happiness  which  should  characterize  the  private  and  pub- 
lic lives  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

OUR  DUTY  IN  SERVING  THE  DEAD 

As  I  have  said,  the  Lord  has  not  given  us  more  laws  than  we  can 
understand  and  obey.  We  are  told  to  care  for  ourselves,  that  we  may 
increase  in  righteous  stature ;  we  are  to  render  service  to  our  fellow- 
men  ;  and  we  are  instructed  to  help  open  the  gospel  door  for  those  who 
have  passed  into  the  other  life  without  having  accepted  the  gospel.  I 
desire  to  say  something  about  the  commandment  to  devote  a  part  of 
our  strength  and  means  to  serving  the  dead  who  have  not  heard  or  ac- 
cepted the  gospel.  The  principle  of  salvation  for  the  dead  is  one  of 
the  most  effective  in  tempering  human  character,  in  making  men  un- 
selfish, and  in  enabling  them  to  walk  in  the  paths  laid  out  for  mankind 
by  the  Savior.  Moreover,  the  doctrine  of  salvation  for  the  dead  uni- 
fies all  the  other  principles  of  the  gospel.  When  we  consider  that  this 
gospel  principle  implies  that  the  Lord,  in  his  mercy  and  love  for  his 
children,  has  made  it  possible  for  every  soul  who  loves  and  will  obey 
truth  to  receive  salvation,  we  begin  to  glimpse  the  unspeakable  love, 
and  the  fulness  of  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  for  his  children.  All 
that  we  do  within  the  Church,  whether  for  ourselves  or  in  preaching 
the  gospel  to  the  living,  can  be  interpreted  in  terms  of  this  great  funda- 
mental principle  which  holds  together  all  the  other  principles  of  the 
gospel.  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life  of  man."  We  have  been  told  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  without  our  dead  we  cannot  be  saved ;  or,  as  he  stated  it  "the 
salvation  of  our  dead  is  essential  to  our  salvation."  We  have  believed 
this  doctrine,  we  believe  it  today,  and  as  a  result  we  have  become  a 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


31 


mighty  temple-building  people,  the  only  temple-building  people  in  all 
the  world,  today.  There  are  thoughtful  men  who  declare  that  the 
great  blessings  that  await  this  people  may  be,  after  all,  an  effect  of  our 
possession  and  use  of  sacred  houses  dedicated  to  the  Lord  in  which 
holy  ordinances  for  the  living  and  the  dead  are  consummated. 

OUR  NEARNESS  TO  THE  SPIRIT  WORLD 

Ninety-one  years  ago  today  the  ancient  Prophet  Elijah  stood  before 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  temple  and  delivered 
to  this  generation  the  keys  of  salvation  for  the  dead.  Since  that  event 
the  spirit  of  that  work  has  been  poured  out  upon  all  nations  and  there 
has  been  developed  a  new  feeling  with  respect  to  our  ancestors.  Men 
are  beginning  to  look  into  the  other  world;  and  never  before  has  the 
spirit  world  seemed  so  near  to  us  as  at  the  present  time.  It  seems  as 
if  President  Nibley's  suggestion  may  be  carried  even  further  than  per- 
haps he  intended — that  we  shall  soon  be  able,  even  by  mechanical  means, 
to  come  so  near  to  the  veil  that  separates  the  living  and  the  dead  as  to 
be  absolutely  certain,  through  the  use  of  every  human  sense,  that  the 
vast  spirit  world  lies  about  us.  I  speak  into  this  microphone  and  by 
some  mysterious  process  my  words  are  spread  throughout  space,  through 
an  unknown  world,  which  yet  is  known — a  world  that  I  cannot  touch, 
and  yet  just  as  real  as  the  world  I  know  by  touch  and  by  every  other 
sense.  Two  months  ago,  I  picked  up  the  newspaper  of  that  day,  and 
read  on  the  front  page  that  that  forenoon  a  person  in  New  York  had 
called  up  London,  and  another  in  London  had  answered  his  New  York 
friend  over  the  radiophone  and  that  others  had  conversed  over  the  in- 
strument, through  space,  during  the  whole  of  that  day — perhaps  the 
most  eventful  day  of  the  period  since  our  last  conference.  Such  de- 
velopments, discoveries  and  new  powers  won  by  man,  bring  us  nearer 
to  the  unseen  world  in  which  I  have  no  doubt  the  dead  live,  among 
other  beings  of  whom  we  have  only  slight  knowledge.  The  world  no 
longer  argues,  as  in  the  past,  against  life  hereafter,  because  fact  crowds 
upon  fact,  and  the  logic  of  men  is  convincing,  that  there  must  be  life 
after  this,  and  that  that  life  is  not  greatly  different  from  the  life  we 
have  lived  on  this  side,  so  far  as  the  utilization  of  the  laws  of  right- 
eousness is  concerned. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  AGE  DRAWN  TOWARD  THE  DEAD 

In  yet  another  way  has  the  spirit  of  the  age  been  drawn  toward 
the  dead,  for,  since  the  memorable  visit  of  the  Prophet  Elijah,  men 
and  women  by  the  thousands  have  given  themselves  to  the  discovery  of 
the  genealogies  of  the  world.  Thousands  of  volumes  have  been  pub- 
lished, dealing  entirely  with  the  records,  names  and  salient,  vital  data 
pertaining  to  those  who  have  lived  upon  the  earth,  giving  us  exactly  the 
identification  needed  for  our  work  in- the  temples.  I  look  upon  this  as 
one  of  the  great  gifts  to  our  people,  for,  though  we  are  one  of  a  city 
and  two  of  a  family,  we  are  nevertheless  so  many  that  we  touch,  prac- 
tically, every  family  within  the  civilized  parts  of  the  world  from  which 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we  have  come.  The  necessary  work  in  genealogy  has  been  done  for  us, 
to  a  great  extent. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  assembled  in  this  great  conference,  I  believe 
the  Lord  requires  of  us  that  we  all  set  our  houses  in  order  in  this  re- 
spect, that  each  man  and  woman,  every  family,  set  about  to  secure,  just 
as  completely  as  may  be  possible,  a  record  of  their  dead,  so  that  thereby 
the  genealogies  of  the  human  family  may  be  gathered  and  increased 
in  number,  and  we  may  have  ample  material  with  which  to  labor  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord.  Such  work  is  not  difficult  to  do.  It  may  be  done 
by  any  man  or  woman.  The  intricacies  of  arranging  names  in  sys- 
tematic genealogies  may  be  done  by  those  who  are  experts  in  such  work, 
but  every  man  and  every  woman  in  Zion  may  gather  names,  later  to  be 
fully  arranged,  and  should  give  some  little  time  to  such  work.  With 
respect  to  gospel  principles,  perhaps  none  is  more  important  in  develop- 
ing spiritual  power  and  strength  than  that  which  pertains  to  the  sal- 
vation for  the  dead.  Whether  we  are  near  a  temple  or  far  away  from 
it,  we  may  be  able  to  give  some  little  time  to  the  important  work  of 
gathering  the  names  of  our  dead  and  arranging  them  for  use  in  the 
temples.  The  Church  maintains  the  Utah  Genealogical  Society,  which 
upon  request  will  give  ample  help  in  such  genealogical  endeavors.  Like- 
wise, to  prevent  duplication  of  temple  work,  even  if  we  increase 
in  numbers,  the  Church  has  provided  and  completed,  since  our 
last  conference,  a  Temple  Index,  which  permits  every  person  who  goes 
into  a  temple  to  assure  himself  that  the  person  for  whom  he  is  working- 
has  not  been  served  before. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  ELIJAH  RESTING  UPON  THE  PEOPLE 

Thus,  within  and  beyond  the  Church,  the  spirit  of  Elijah  is  operat- 
ing and  is  resting  upon  the  people.  I  trust  that  this  spirit  may  enter 
even  more  completely  into  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  they 
may  continue  to  be  a  temple-building  people,  that  we  may  use  our 
temples  more  abundantly,  that  we  may  provide  ways  and  means,  by 
earnest  effort,  through  which  such  work  may  be  done.  I  feel  assured 
in  my  own  heart,  from  my  own  experience  and  the  experience  of  my 
friends,  that  those  who  give  themselves  in  wisdom  and  with  propriety 
to  this  work  will  round  out  their  spiritual  experiences,  enrich  their  lives, 
and  find  a  new  and  abiding  joy  in  all  duties  pertaining  to  life  under 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

TESTIMONY 

I  know  that  this  afternoon  is  a  precious  one.  Many  should  be 
heard  here  today,  before  this  great  congregation.  I  am  happy  to  have 
had  this  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  you,  and  of  speaking 
briefly  upon  an  important  gospel  principle.  I  bear  witness  to  the  exist- 
ence of  God,  the  Father  of  our  spirits ;  to  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ, 
his  Son ;  to  the  divine  mission  of  ^Joseph  Smith,  and  to  the  truth  of  the 
faith  that  brings  joy  and  happiness  to  faithful  members  of  the  Church. 
I  know  this  work  is  true.  God  bless  us  and  establish  us  in  the  testi- 
mony of  the  truth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ..  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


33 


Jessie  Williams  sang  a  solo,  "The  Voice  in  the  Wilderness." 
(Isaiah  40.) 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  Former  President  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission  .' 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  view  of  the  announcement  made  by 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  this  morning,  in  regard  to  my  being  released 
from  the  Presidency  of  the  Eastern  States  mission,  I  think  it  is  quite 
likely  that  the  parents,  the  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends  of  those 
who  are  now  in  the  Eastern  States  on  missions,  would  be  glad  to  receive 
word  from  that  mission  as  to  the  general  welfare  of  their  sons  and 
daughters.  I  am  happy  to  report  to  you  that  it  is  a  general  time  of 
health  with  us,  that  all  is  well  with  your  kindred  and  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  is  a  common  heritage,  it  seems  to  me,  to  all  those  who  are 
now  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  Eastern  States. 

I  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  unto  the  Lord  and  to  the  authorities 
of  the  Church  that  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  laboring  during  the 
past  five  years  in  that  mission.  It  has  been  a  time  of  great  joy  and  sat- 
isfaction to  me  to  be  conscious  of  the  esteem  and  friendship  of  the  five 
hundred  young  people  with  whom  I  have  come  in  contact  since  I  began 
my  labors  in  the  Eastern  States.  To  receive  the  friendship  and  feel 
the  supporting  influence  of  their  confidence  has  produced  in  me  a  joy 
unspeakable.  While  I  acquiesce  fully  in  the  release  that  has  come  to 
me,  and  recognize  the  wisdom  of  it,  you  will  have  to  forgive  me  if  I 
confess  also  that  I  received  the  word  with  some  degree  of  personal  sad- 
ness. I  feel  honored  in  the  selection  of  my  successor,  and  I  wired  that 
word  to  the  secretary  of  the  mission  last  night,  and  congratulated  the 
mission  upon  the  appointment  of  Elder  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  and  I  pray 
for  a  continuation  of  the  esprit  de  corps,  may  I  call  it,  of  the  mission. 
I  am  very  sure  that  the  mission  force  will  give  to  him  all  the  loyalty 
and  the  support  they  have  given  to  me,  and  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
without  let  or  hindrance  will  continue  to  expand  even  as  it  has  in  the 

Past-       ^  ,         .         .  . 

The  Eastern  States,  in  my  judgment,  is  one  of  the  noblest  missions 

in  the  world.  Within  its  boundaries  are  thirty-three  millions  of  people; 
and  of  the  cities  in  the  United  States  that  have  a  population  of  four 
hundred  thousand  and  over,  of  the  fifteen  such  cities,  eight  are  within 
the  boundaries  of  the  Eastern  States !  I  am  happy  in  the  reflection  that 
there  has  been  continued  growth  ill  the  work,  that  each  successive  year 
in  the  five  of  my  administration  has  been  greater  in  its  success  than  in 
the  one  that  preceded  it.  During  the  time  of  my  labors  there  has  been 
an  increase  of  four  chapel  buildings  in  the  mission;  that  is,  it  will  be 
four  when  the  one  under  construction  at  the  present  time  is  completed. 
I  was  very  happy  before  leaving  New  York  to  secure  for  the  Man- 
hattan or  New  York  branch  of  our  mission  more  adequate  quarters, 
and  more  worthy  of  the  chief  branch  of  our  mission.  We  secured 
quarters  in  the  Carnegie  building.    We  have  now  a  beautiful  hall  with 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


suitable  classrooms  in  it  to  assemble  the  classes  of  our  Sabbath  school, 
and  also  obtained  one  of  the  smaller  halls  for  mid-week  services  for  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  and  the  Relief  Society, 
so  that  we  will  be  more  suitably  located  hereafter  than  in  the  imme- 
diate past,  at  least,  in  that  important  branch. 

We  are  expending  in  the  mission  about  eight  thousand  dollars 
yearly  in  rental  for  halls.  This  has  been  an  increase  in  this  item  from 
three  thousand  dollars  yearly  to  eight  thousand.  We  have  been  suc- 
cessful in  obtaining  better  halls  and  more  of  them,  but  of  course  at 
considerable  increase  of  expense. 

Among  the  outstanding  features  of  our  work  in  the  Eastern  States 
during  my  administration  has  been  the  holding  of  five  mission  schools. 
These  schools  have  brought  in  about  one-third  of  the  whole  mission 
force  at  a  time  to  each  school  for  intensified  training  during  four  solid 
weeks,  and  if  I  could  take  time  to  recite  the  curriculum  of  these  schools 
you  would  agree  with  me  that  the  training  is  both  intensive  and  com- 
prehensive. 

It  has  been  my  pleasure  to  write  thirteen  new  tracts  for  the  mis- 
sion since  the  opening  of  my  administration ;  and  these  have  not  only 
been  used  in  the  Eastern  States  mission,  but  other  missions  also  have 
taken  up  some  of  them  in  their  work,  and  altogether,  year  after  year, 
the  work  has  grown.  I  am  extremely  happy  to  be  conscious  of  the  fact 
that  we  quit  service  on  a  "rising  market." 

There  is  one  circumstance  that  I  shall  take  the  liberty  of  referring 
to  a  little  in  more  detail.  In  New  York  City  alone,  that  is,  in  greater 
New  York,  there  are  two  millions  of  the  House  of  Judah,  and  for  the 
last  several  years  I  have  been  wondering  how  we  could  make  an  ap- 
proach to  those  people,  attract  their  attention,  and  have  the  material  to 
present  to  them  that  would  place  in  their  hands  the  great  message  that 
God  has  for  that  branch  of  the  House  of  Israel.  In  very  many  of  the 
revelations  to  the  Church,  where  the  Lord  sets  forth  this  latter-day 
work,  you  will  find  this  phraseology  often  employed  when  referring  to 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel — "first  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  then  unto 
the  Jews."  That  occurs  quite  a  number  of  times  in  the  revelations  con- 
tained in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  and,  of  course,  being  in  the  midst 
of  so  large  a  population  of  the  Jews,  one's  thought  would  naturally  go 
out  to  them  with  a  desire  to  get  some  word  of  our  message  over  to 
them.  Well,  during  the  past  six  months,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  way 
has  wonderfully  opened  up  in  that  direction,  in  the  city  of  Bing- 
hampton,  Broome  county,  New  York,  a  name  that  will  be  familiar  to 
many  of  you  who  are  acquainted  with,  the  history  of  the  Church,  for  it 
is  territory  in  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  operated  during  the 
translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  also  in  the  early  movements  of 
the  Church.  It  is  only  about  twenty-three  miles  from  this  city  that 
the  Colesville  branch  was  organized,  which  was  the  first  community 
unit  to  begin  the  great  work  of  the  gathering  together  of  our  people  to 
the  west.  .  It  was  the  Colesville  branch  that  as  a  body,  and  by  coopera- 
tive methods  of  mutual  assistance,  moved  through  the  states  of  New 
York  and  Ohio,  halting  for  a  while  in  Kirtland,  and  then  continuing 


ELDER  BRiGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


35 


their  journey  through  Indiana  and  Illinois,  and  so  on  into  Missouri, 
and  to  the  western  borders  of  that  state,  and  made  the  first  settlements 
in  Jackson  county,  Missouri.  Well,  in  Binghampton,  near  where  this 
stream  of  western  migration  started,  came  our  opening  for  an  approach 
to  the  House  of  Judah.  There  is  in  that  place  a  converted  Jew,  who 
is  converted  to  Christianity,  but  not  to  our  gospel,  the  true  Christi- 
anity. He  accepts  Christ  as  the  Messiah  of  the  Jews,  and  he  publishes 
a  magazine  entitled  The  Redeemed  Hebrew.  He  received  a  paper  from 
a  Jewish  Rabbi,  in  Canada,  in  which  the  Rabbi  set  forth  his  reasons  for 
rejecting  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Messiah,  and  concluded  that  it  would  be 
sin  for  him,  and  disloyalty  to  Jehovah  for  him  to  accept  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth as  the  Messiah.  The  article  was  published  and  an  invitation  ex- 
tended to  Christian  ministers  to  answer  the  Rabbi,  an  editorial  note 
stating  that  the  paper  which  should  most  completely  answer  the  Rabbi 
would  be  published  in  the  magazine.  It  may  be  a  bit  out  of  good  taste 
for  me  to  say  it,  perhaps,  but  the  paper  which  I  submitted  to  the  maga- 
zine was  accepted  and  published  as  a  reply  to  the  Rabbi.  After  the 
first  article  was  published,  I  thought  it  needed  a  little  amplification, 
and  so  I  sent  in  a  second  article,  and  that,  too,  was  published.  Then  it 
seemed  to  me  that  we  had  just  reached  the  threshold  of  the  subject, 
and  there  was  just  a  fine  opening  made  for  proclaiming  our  message, 
God's  message  to  the  Jews,  as  we  may  gather  it  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon;  for,  as  pointed  out  by  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  this 
morning,  the  outstanding  feature  of  our  Book  of  Mormon  scriptures 
is,  that  the  book  shall  be  a  witness  to  the  Gentiles  and  especially  to  Jews, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  the  very  Eternal  God,  mani- 
festing himself  to  all  nations.  That  is  found,  as  you  all  know,  on  the 
title  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
declared  was  not  his  composition.  He  found  it  engraven  on  the  title 
page  of  the  gold  plates. 

When  I  sent  this  third  article  to  the  editor  of  The  Redeemed  He- 
brew he  informed  me  that  it  made  thirteen  pages  of  his  magazine ;  and 
as  he  expected  to  devote  the  whole  magazine  to  that  paper,  he  said  he 
could  publish  sixteen  pages  nearly  at  the  same  cost  as  thirteen,  and  would 
I  supplement  what  I  had  written  with  something  further.  I  did  so. 
When  that  was  published  it  made  eighteen  pages  instead  of  sixteen ; 
but  he  refused  to  select  the  part  to  be  cut  down,  and  I  did  not  have  the 
heart  to  sacrifice  any  part  of  it,  so  the  eighteen  pages  were  published. 

In  the  supplemental  matter  I  sent  to  him,  I  used  what  I  have  before 
used  as  a  theme,  I  think  in  this  tabernacle;  namely,  "A  Prophetic  Page 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon."  I  am  sorry  that  we  do  not  have  here  one 
of  the  older  editions  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  because  then  I  could 
conscientiously  tell  you  that  all  the  prophecies  that  I  referred  to  were 
upon  one  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  but  in  our  more  recent  edi- 
tions, in  dividing  the  pages  into  two  columns  for  each  page,  that  par- 
ticular group  of  prophecies  are  distributed  over  two  pages.  But  it 
only  makes  sufficient  matter  for  one  page,  and  I  think  I  may  still  say 
that  it  is  a  "prophetic  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon."  You  will  find 
it  now  in  your  current  editions  on  page  101  and  page  102 ;  in  the  older 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


editions  it  occupied  page  122.  Of  course,  I  shall  not  have  time  to  enter 
into  a  discussion  of  all  these  prophecies  of  this  page— there  are  five  of 
them;  but  suffice  it  to  say  that  the  first  prophecy  predicts,  that  many 
shall  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  and,  second,  that  they  shall  carry 
the  words  of  that  book  unto  the  remnants  of  the  land,  meaning  of 
course,  the  American  Indians,  descendants  of  the  Nephites  and  the 
Lamanites  of  ancient  times ;  and  third,  that  the  remnants  of  those  an- 
cient people  shall  know  their  origin,  that  they  are  descendants  of  Israel ; 
the  gospel  shall  be  declared  among  them,  that  they  shall  believe  it,  the 
scales  of  darkness  shall  fall  from  their  eyes,  and  before  many  genera- 
tions pass  away,  they  shall  become  a  white  and  delightsome  people. 
Then  we  come  to  the  prophecies  that  are  germane  to  what  I  want  to 
tell  you.   It  is  declared  on  this  prophetic  page: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Jews  which  are  scattered  also 
sJiall  begin  to  believe  in  Christ." 

That  is  a  subject  that  I  have  had  under  consideration  during  many 
years,  and  I  have  made  a  considerable  collection  of  utterances  from 
prominent  Jewish  Rabbis  that  indicate  a  marked  change  of  mental  atti- 
tude on  the  part  of  leading  Jews  towards  Jesus  of  Nazareth.  I  think 
perhaps  one  of  the  most  striking  of  these  utterances,  and  one  that  indi- 
cates the  whole  shifting  of  thought  on  the  part  of  Jews  toward  the 
Christ,  was  uttered  March  25,  1901,  by  Rabbi  Isador  Singer,  Doctor 
of  Philosophy,  in  New  York  City.    He  said : 

"I  regard  Jesus  of  Nazareth  as  a  Jew  of  the  Jews,  one  whom  all  Jewish 
people  are  beginning  to  love.  His  teaching  has  been  an  immense  service  to  all 
the  world  in  bringing  Israel's  God  to  the  knowledge  of  hundreds  of  millions  of 
mankind.  The  great  change  in  the  Jewish  thought  concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
I  cannot  better  illustrate  than  by  this  fact.  When  I  was  a  boy  had  my  father, 
who  was  a  very  pious  man,  heard  the  name  of  Jesus  uttered  from  the  pulpit  of 
our  synagogue,  he  and  every  other  man  in  the  congregation  would  have  left  the 
building,  and  the  rabbi  would  have  been  dismissed  at  once.  Now  it  is  not  a 
strange  thing  in  many  synagogues  to  hear  sermons  preached  eulogistic  of  this 
Jesus,  and  nobody  thinks  of  protesting.  In  fact,  we  are  all  glad  to  claim  Jesus 
as  one  of  our  people." 

About  a  year  ago  Rabbi  Wise  of  New  York,  in  Carnegie  Hall,  the 
hall  that  is  near  to  ours  now  in  the  Carnegie  Building,  before  a  record 
crowd  in  his  lecture  room  declared  that : 

"Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  a  man,  not  a  myth,  as  I  had  been  taught 
in  my  earlier  manhood  Jesus  was ;  that  is,  he  existed,"  said  the  Rabbi. 
"I  accept  this  despite  the  information  I  had  been  led  to  believe  earlier 
in  my  life,  a  notion  that  Jesus  was  a  myth,  and  never  existed.  I  tell 
you,  and  I  will  repeat  these  words  to  every  Jew  in  the  world  if  need 
be:  Jesus  was,  and  we  must  accept  this  fact  at  once.  Shall  we  not 
say  that  this  Jew  [Jesus]  is  soul  of  our  soul,  and  that  the  soul  of  his 
teaching  is  Jewish,  and  nothing  but  Jewish?  The  teaching  of  Jesus, 
the  Jew,  is  a  phase  of  the  spirit  which  has  led  the  Jew  Godward." 

I  could  continue  to  read  to  you  many  excerpts  of  this  kind,  more 
than  twenty  such  excerpts  are  written  in  the  third  article  of  The  Re- 
deemed Hebrew,  that  I  told  you  about.  It  merely  tends  to  show  that 
the  Jew  is  "beginning  to  believe  in  Christ."    He  has  not  yet  accepted 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


37 


him  as  the  Son  of  God,  as  God  manifested  in  the  flesh,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  and  the  one  who  fulfills  the  Messianic  prophecies  of  the 
Old  Testament.  There  is  nothing  in  this  movement  that  indicates  be- 
lief of  Jesus  in  that  way ;  but  there  is  much  that  proclaims  the  fact  that 
the  Jews  are  "beginning"  to  admire,  they  are  beginning  to  accept  as 
a  great  religious  teacher  this  Jesus  of  Nazareth ;  to  respect  him.  Ulti- 
mately that  respect  will  turn  to  love,  and  love  will  turn  to  acceptance  of 
him  as  the  Son  of  God.  There  will  be  some,  at  least,  of  the  House  of 
Judah  who  will  begin  to  react  toward  this  message,  this  proclamation, 
that  our  Book  of  Mormon  makes  as  to  the  Deity  of  the  Christ,  "the 
Eternal  God"  manifested  in  the  flesh. 

The  second  part  of  this  prophecy  is  that  not  only  shall  "the  Jews 
which  are  scattered  begin  to  believe  in  Christ,"  but  "they  shall  begin  to 
gather  in  upon  the  face  of  the  land ;"  that  is,  begin  to  gather  to  their 
promised  land,  to  Palestine. 

I  remember  that  the  British  Consular  reports  of  1856,  said  that 
less  than  fifteen  thousand  Jews  were  in  all  Palestine.  Twenty  years 
later  this  number  had  increased  to  sixty-five  thousand.  Then  came 
the  Zionite  movement,  under  the  leadership  of  Dr.  Herzal,  supplemented 
later  by  the  influence  of  Israel  Zangwell,  a  Jewish  writer  of  some  note, 
and  what  is  known  as  the  "Zionite  movement"  received  an  impetus,  and 
began  to  grow  in  the  minds  of  the  Jews  until  there  began  what  we  may 
now  call  the  modern  gathering  together  of  the  Jews  in  Palestine.  The 
gathering  is  continuing.  Millions  of  dollars  have  been  subscribed  by 
that  people  to  establish  their  exiled  brethren  in  the  land  of  their  fathers, 
and  the  ambition  is  to  resume  the  national  history  of  the  Jewish  people. 
That  movement  has  grown  until  it  has  attained  large  proportions,  and 
very  wide  interest  in  the  world.  This  prophecy,  then,  is  in  course  of 
fulfilment — "The  Jews  that  are  scattered  are  beginning  to  gather  in 
upon  the  land  of  their  forefathers,  to  the  land  of  Palestine  and  to  Jeru- 
salem !" 

We  may  pause  here  to  ask  what  is  the  motive  power,  what  is  be- 
hind all  this  movement — this  change  in  the  mental  attitude  of  that  peo- 
ple towards  Christ ; — this  gathering  together  of  the  Jews  in  Palestine  ? 
This  is  the  explanation  of  it:  In  the  Kirtland  Temple,  in  1835,  Israel's 
great  prophet,  Moses,  appeared  to  Joseph  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
delivered  to  them  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel  and  the  restora- 
tion of  the  Ten  Tribes  from  the  land  of  the  North.  In  1840,  in  pur- 
suance of  this  work,  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  an  apostle 
of  this  new  dispensation,  a  Jew,  by  the  way,  was  appointed  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  to  a  special  mission  to  the  Holy  Land,  to  Palestine,  to 
dedicate  that  land  for  the  gathering  of  the  Jews  to  Jerusalem,  and  to 
bless  the  Jews  with  a  disposition  to  return  to  their  land  and  to  their 
city.  The  mission  of  Orson  Hyde  is  well  known  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints;  how,  under  very  great  difficulties,  trials  and  hardships,  he 
made  his  way  to  Jerusalem,  went  to  the  summit  of  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
and  there  wrote  out  a  prayer  that  God  put  into  his  heart,  dedicating  the 
land  of  Palestine  for  the  return  of  the  Jews,  and  for  the  renewal  of 
their  national  existence.    That  prayer — and  it  is  a  most  wonderful 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prayer — has  been  published  many  times  in  our  periodicals.  It  is  pub- 
lished also  in  the  History  of  the  Church,  which  is  derived  chiefly  from 
the  office  journal  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Orson  Hyde,  returning  from 
his  mission  when  in  Alexandria,  also  wrote  to  the  Millennial  Star  of 
the  then  current  date  and  there  made  a  rather  wonderful  prediction. 
He  said  in  substance  that  it  was  by  political  power  that  Judah  had  been 
broken  and  scattered  abroad,  and  that  it  would  be  by  the  exercise  of 
political  power  that  Judah  would  be  restored ;  and  furthermore  he  de- 
clared that  England  would  be  the  leading  national  power  that  would 
befriend  Judah,  and  aid  him  in  the  re-establishment  of  his  people  in  the 
land  of  Palestine.  This  was  published  in  the  Millennial  Star  of  1842, 
and  may  be  found  by  those  curious  enough  to  seek  for  the  source  of 
this  information. 

That  is  the  source  of  the  power  underlying  the  development  of  this 
great  work.  God  is  moving  underneath  all  these  facts — this  changing 
of  the  mental  attitude  of  Jews  towards  Jesus — this  latter-day  gathering 
of  the  Jews  to  the  land  and  this  city  of  their  fathers. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  predictions  of  Orson  Hyde,  the 
man  set  apart  to  perform  this  special  mission,  in  behalf  of  Judah,  are 
being  wonderfully  fulfilled.  The  defeat  of  the  Turks  in  the  World 
War  was  by  British  forces  under  the  English  General  Sir  Edmund 
Allenby.  The  official  entrance  of  General  Allenby  into  Jerusalem  on 
the  11th  of  December,  1917,  and  the  subsequent  course  of  England  in 
respect  of  Palestine;  the  fact  that  Great  Britain  now  holds  the  admin- 
istration of  the  affairs  of  that  land  tfnder  the  appointment  of  the  League 
of  Nations, — this  fills  out  the  story  of  Elder  Orson  Hyde's  mission, 
and  prophecy.  The  policy  of  England  in  respect  to  its  administration 
of  the  affairs  of  Palestine  as  foreshadowed  in  the  declaration  by  Lord 
Balfour  when,  on  the  2nd  of  November,  1919,  he  said  officially,  and 
with  the  approval  of  France,  Italy  and  President  Wilson  of  the  United 
States : 

"His  Majesty's  Government  view  with  favor  the  establishment  in  Palestine 
of  a  National  home  for  the  Jewish  people,  and  will  use  their  best  endeavors  to 
facilitate  the  achievement  of  this  object." 

England  has  ever  since  consistently  pursued  that  policy ;  and  is 
now  pursuing  it. 

I  regret  that  I  have  taken  more  time  than  I  should  have  done,  but 
I  think  these  matters  of  sufficient  importance  to  have  entered  upon  the 
record  of  this  conference,  and  I  wish  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  cannot  but  regard  the  opening  that  has  come  to  us  in  the  Eastern 
States  to  furnish  material  by  which  we  may  approach  our  cousin  Judah 
with  the  message  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  an  opening  of  the  way  by 
the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  may  not  have 
made  that  very  clear  to  you,  but  I  feel  it  in  my  own  heart,  and  I  pray 
that  God  will  bless  this  branch  of  his  people,  the  Jews,  and  that  the 
time  will  come  when  we  shall  have  larger  access  to  these  people  in  the 
proclamation  of  God's  message  to  them.  I  hope  so,  and  pray  for  it,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


39 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  Southern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  the  President  of  the  Church  was  deliv- 
ering his  sermon  this  morning,  I  thought,  What  a  great  spiritual  com- 
fort and  sustaining  power  it  is  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  hear  him 
speak  in  the  spirit  of  testimony,  and  truly  his  testimony  is  invaluable 
to  the  Church.  In  Atlanta  a  few  years  ago  we  accepted  an  invitation 
for  President  Grant  to  speak  in  a  Unitarian  Church.  At  the  close  of 
his  sermon  the  minister  said :  "Mr.  Grant,  I  wish  I  had  your  earnest- 
ness, your  testimony,  and  your  faith."  I  felt  that  that  minister  voiced 
the  feeling  of  millions  of  people  in  the  earth  whose  religious  beliefs  are 
vague  and  therefore  not  very  comforting. 

In  the  133rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord  sets 
forth  the  mission  of  the  Church.    He  says : 

"And  for  this  cause,  that  men  might  be  made  partakers  of  the  glories  which 
were  to  be  revealed,  the  Lord  sent  forth  the  fulness  of  his  gospel,  his  everlast- 
ing covenant,  reasoning  in  plainness  and  simplicity — 

"To  prepare  the  weak  for  those  things  which  are  coming  on  the  earth,  and 
for  the  Lord's  errand  in  the  day  when  the  weak  shall  confound  the  wise,  and 
the  little  one  become  a  strong  nation,  and  two  shall  put  their  tens  of  thousands  to 
flight.  !    '  i 

"And  by  the  weak  things  of  the  earth  the  Lord  shall  thrash  the  nations  by 
the  power  of  his  Spirit." 

And  are  not  the  elders  preaching  in  plainness  and  in  simplicity? 
They  are  preaching  in  the  power  of  the  spirit  of  testimony. 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people. 
For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall  cause 
groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground  and  shall  not 
be  able  to  stand.  And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings, 
and  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves 
of  the  sea,  heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds." 

When  your  sons  come  into  the  mission  field,  I  meet  them  in  a 
spirit  of  love  and  sympathy,  for  I  feel  that  these  young  men  need  sym- 
pathy and  love.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  prefers  mercy,  prefers  executing 
mercy  rather  than  judgment.  As  I  stand  before  these  splendid  young 
men,  I  have  no  doubt  of  their  ability  to  preach  the  gospel.  I  believe  in 
them,  for  in  my  heart  are  the  words  of  the  Lord,  which  are  as  follows : 
"For  the  power  is  in  them  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves. 
And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward." 
And  when  the  Lord  says  the  power  is  in  them,  who  shall  doubt  the  ability 
of  these  young  men  of  Israel  to  preach  the  gospel,  if  they  magnify  their 
calling  ? 

Recently  I  honorably  released  a  young  man,  and  he  told  me  some 
of  his  history.  He  said:  "I  am  the  fifth  son  of  a  family  to  have  filled 
a  mission,  and  it  has  cost  my  father,  who  is  a  poor  farmer,  over  eight 
thousand  dollars  to  keep  me  and  my  brothers  in  the  mission  field."  This 
case  is  by  no  means  uncommon,  but  it  shows  the  background  of  this 
missionary  work;  a  background  of  sacrifice  and  sacred  devotion  to  the 
work  of  the  Lord.   And  shall  we  forget  this  sacrifice?   Who  would  not 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  willing  to  help  these  fine  young  men,  brethren  and  sisters  ?  When 
they  come  into  the  mission  field,  I  look  at  them  and  try  to  think  of  their 
fathers  and  their  mothers  who  have  reared  them,  and  I  say  to  myself : 
"With  the  help  of  God,  it  is  my  duty  to  continue  this  noble  work  and  to 
help  the  parents  develop  the  power  that  God  has  given  their  sons,  as 
ministers  of  his  word,  to  preach  the  everlasting  gospel." 

To  the  testimony  of  my  brethren  I  add  my  testimony :  I  know,  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  our  Redeemer 
and  our  Savior,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  resurrection  and  the  life. 
By  the  same  power  I  have  been  favored  with  a  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  man  sent  from  God,  a  messenger  of  the  Almighty,  a  choice 
being  raised  up  by  the  Lord  to  complete  the  glorious  work  of  having 
all  dispensations  merge  into  this,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
that  God  "might  gather  together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which 
are  in  heaven  and  which  are  on  earth;"  and  prepare  the  world  for 
the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God:  and  this  testimony  I  humbly 
bear,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WM.  J.  HENDERSON 

President  of  the  Pamguitch  Stake  and  Recently  Returned  from  a 
Short-term  Mission  in  the  Southern  States 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  thankful  to  our  heavenly  Father, 
and  to  the  brethren  who  preside  over  the  Church,  that  I  have  had  the 
wonderful  opportunity  and  experience  of  a  short-term  mission  in  the 
Southern  states.  I  am  on  my  way  home  from  that  mission,  where  I 
have  been  laboring  as  a  missionary  since  last  October.  That  mission  is 
a  wonderful  field  of  labor.  The  leading  thought  in  my  mind,  almost 
continuously,  in  laboring  with  the  young  men  sent  out  to  preach  and 
teach  the  gospel  in  that  land,  was,  What  a  blessing  it  would  be  to  the 
elders  and  to  the  people  of  that  mission  and  other  missions,  if  men  of 
experience  could  be  constantly  associated  with  them.  I  am  thoroughly 
convinced  that  it  was  through  the  inspiration  of  our  heavenly  Father 
that  short-term  missionaries  were  called  into  the  field.  The  men  needed 
to  carry  forward  short-term  missions,  especially  in  the  Southern  states 
where  I  have  labored,  would  be  the  busy,  the  active  men,  men  who  are 
doing  things,  who  have  their  fingers  on  the  financial  pulse  of  the 
country,  as  well  as  affairs  spiritual.  The  mission  needs  the  professional 
men — the  doctors,  the  lawyers,  the  educators,  the  financiers,  men  who 
measure  up  with  the  general  practical  conditions  as  we  find  them. 

There  are  some  wonderful  cities  in  the  South,  which  have  been 
making  rapid  progress  during  the  last  few  years.  There  are  men  in 
the  South  with  keen  minds,  up-to-date,  who  are  doing  things,  men  of 
intelligence,  approachable,  willing  to  listen.  If  we  send  missionaries 
who  are  qualified  to  take  up  the  principles  of  life  and  salvation  with 
this  class  of  men,  it  would  be  a  great  strength  to  that  mission.  It  would 
also  be  a  source  of  great  strength  to  the  young  elders.    They  need 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  HENDERSON 


41 


encouragement,  sympathy,  someone  to  help  them  to  get  started  in  this 
great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

I  have  in  mind  one  small  city  of  42,000  people.  I  was  told,  by  a 
member  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  that  the  payroll  of  that  city 
was  three  hundred  thousand  dollars  a  day.  I  was  also  in  Birmingham, 
Alabama,  where  a  member  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  said  that 
the  payroll  of  that  wonderful  city  was  four  million  two  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars  a  week.  The  south  is  filling  up  with  wonderful  industries 
from  the  north.  They  have  all  of  the  latest  modern  improvements  in 
these  great  cities.  They  have  spent  millions  of  dollars  for  water  sys- 
tems, and  for  other  improvements.  Many  of  those  wonderful  cities  are 
modern,  up-to-date  in  every  respect,  and  forging  ahead  with  marvelous 
rapidity. 

We  have  an  excellent  membership  in  the  South.  Many  choice 
men  and  women  who  have  received  the  testimony  of  the  elders.  They 
have  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
They  are  devoted  to  the  work,  are  giving  their  time  and  their  talents 
to'  the  cause,  willing  to  serve,  and  assume  responsibility.  It  is  a  great 
work.  The  training  that  our  boys  and  girls  are  getting  in  the  mission 
field  is  admirable.  We  can  scarcely  conceive  of  the  worthy  training  they 
are  receiving",  but  they  need  the  help  of  more  of  our  men  of  ability,  who 
have  had  greater  experiences  in  the  gospel.  I  am  hoping  and  praying 
continuously  that  men  of  this  class  may  be  separated  for  a  short  time 
from  their  business  cares,  and  see  their  way  to  give  a  few  months  of  their 
time  to  assist  these  young  men  in  carrying  forward  the  testimony  that 
we  have  received  of  this  wondrous  latter-day  work.  I  am  sure  that  it 
will  profit  them,  their  families,  and  their  associates.  They  will  get 
more  out  of  it  themselves  than  they  will  be  able  to  give  to  others.  That 
has  been  the  experience  of  our  missionaries ;  and  we  feel  indebted  to 
our  heavenly  Father  for  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  us. 

I  have  often  heard  people  say :  "We  have  made  a  sacrifice  to  go 
on  a  mission.  I  have  made  a  sacrifice  to  send  my  son,  or  my  daughter 
on  a  mission."  It  never  appealed  to  me  as  a  sacrifice  at  all.  It  has 
always  appealed  to  me  as  a  glorious  privilege  and  opportunity  to  be 
called  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  to  preach  and  teach  the  gospel,  and 
to  administer  in  its  ordinances.  I  have  proved  it  a  great  privilege  and 
a  blessing.  I  have  received  more  personal  joy  in  preaching  and  teach- 
ing the  gospel  and  mingling  and  associating  with  our  young  men  in  the 
mission  field,  than  I  have  ever  received  in  any  other  way. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  move  upon  the  hearts  of  our  busy  men 
throughout  the  Church,  to  be  anxious  to  fill  a  short-term  mission,  and 
assist  in  carrying  on  this  work  and  labor.  You  have  no  idea  of  the 
wonderful  good  that  you  cart  accomplish,  and  the  encouragement  that 
you  will  be  able  to  give  the  younger  missionaries.  And  they  need 
encouragement.  When  our  boys  and  girls  are  started  out  properly  and 
rightly  in  the  mission  field,  they  become  strong  men  and  women,  and 
are  able  to  accomplish  a  great  amount  of  good.  They  develop,  grow, 
and  increase  in  power  and  ability  to  a  remarkable  extent.    That  is  my 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testimony  of  the  wonderful  improvement  and  advancement  that  our 
sons  and  daughters  have  made  in  the  mission  field.  For  this  reason 
and  others,  I  do  pray  that  the  mission  presidents  throughout  the  United 
States  will  be  blessed  in  the  future  more  than  in  the  past  with  the  pres- 
ence of  men  of  ability,  and  experience,  who  can  do,  greater  service  in 
carrying  forward  this  latter-day  work. 

I  have  received  many  testimonies  in  regard  to  the  truth  of  this 
latter-day  work.  I  know  that  it  is  true.  I  know  that  the  testimony 
which  the  young  men  and  women  who  are  called  into  the  mission  field 
have  received  through  their  parents  is  supplemented  and  developed  as 
soon  as  the  responsibility  comes  to  them.  It  will  grow,  and  they  will 
make  good,  if  they  have  the  proper  care  and  training,  in  starting  out 
in  the  mission  field.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Lord  now  victorious." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Can  you  beat  that  in  any  land  or  any  clime?  [Referring  to  the 
wonderful  rendition  of  the  anthem,  just  sing.]  There  will  be  a  con- 
cert given  here  Tuesday  evening  by  the  choir.  The  admission  price  is 
twenty- five  and  fifty  cents,  and  we  owe  it  to  the  choir  to  give  them  a 
rousing  reception.  I  think  our  music  today  very  superior  indeed.  I 
rejoice  exceedingly  in  it. 

Brother  David  K.  Udall  will  come  to  the  stand  on  Monday  morn- 
ing to  offer  the  opening  prayer.  Brother  Udall  has  been  appointed 
president  of  the  Arizona  Temple.  The  Temple  will  be  completed  within 
a  few  weeks,  but  will  not  be  dedicated  until  after  the  October  confer- 
ence.   It  will  cost  us  about  three  quarters  of  a  million  dollars. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Carl  K.  Conrad,  president  of  the 
Nevada  stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  Monday,  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  April 
4,  1927. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  April  3,  1927. 

Elder  J.  Golden  Kimball,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  pre- 
sided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  Dutch  choir,  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
Elder  A.  Van  Roosendaal,  conductor;  Elder  Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the 
organ. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey 
pursue." 


V 


ELDER  RUSSELL  H.  BLOOD 


43 


The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  Q.  Cannon. 
The  choir  sang,  "All  hail  the  risen.  Redeemer."    The  solo  parts 
were  sung  by  Jane  Van  Roosendaal  and  Mrs.  Vant  Hof . 

ELDER  RUSSELL  H.  BLOOD 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

I  feel  it  a  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  before 
a  general  conference  of  the  Church.  This  is  the  first  opportunity  that 
I  have  had  since  October,  1921,  to  attend  a  general  conference  of  the 
Church  and  during  the  larger  part  of  the  intervening  time  I  have  been 
in  Europe. 

It  was  my  privilege  to  labor  during  the  latter  part  of  the  time 
among  the  French-speaking  people,  and  I  can  assure  you  that  I  bring 
back  from  those  countries  some  of  the  fondest  memories  of  my  life. 
The  French  mission  was  reorganized  at  the  commencement  of  1924, 
at  which  time  the  French-speaking  people  of  Belgium,  and  those  of  the 
French  cantons  in  Switzerland,  and  the  people  of  France,  were  united 
under  one  head.  Up  to  that  time  there  had  been  missionaries  laboring 
in  Belgium  and  Switzerland,  and  years  ago  missionaries  had  done  work 
in  France,  but  these  countries  had  not  been  grouped  together  as  a 
French  mission,  until  1924. 

I  am  sure  that  the  movement  that  was  taken  by  ]the  authorities  was 
the  proper  one.  While  our  labors  will  perhaps  be  slow  among  the 
French  people,  for  some  time,  because  of  the  fact  that  they  have  not 
heard  of  the  teachings  of  our  Church  and  because  missionaries  have 
not  been  among  them,  yet  I  am  confident  that  we  have  a  great  work 
to  perform  among  those  who  speak  the  French  language. 

I  can  say  truthfully  that  there  are  no  finer  people  to  associate  with 
than  those  in  Belgium,  in  France,  and  in  Switzerland.  Some  misunder- 
standing has  arisen  here  in  our  country  with  respect  to  the  French 
people,  and  some  of  us  have  been  prone  to  criticize  them  for  conditions 
that  have  been  forced  upon  them ;  and,  perhaps,  also,  for  their  attitude 
toward  the  people  of  the  United  States ;  but  could  you  go,  as  I  have 
gone,  and  as  many  others  have,  through  the  war-torn  countries  of 
France  and  Beligum,  I  am  sure  that  you  would  then  appreciate  more 
fully  the  conditions  under  which  they  have  been  laboring  in  the  past 
few  years.  There  are  four  or  five  divisions  of  France  which  were 
completely  devastated  during  the  war,  and  these,  by  the  way,  were  the 
agricultural  districts.  Not  only  were  homes  destroyed,  but  much  of 
the  land  was  damaged  to  such  an  extent  that,  perhaps,  it  can  never  be 
reclaimed.  However,  the  French  government  is  spending  large  sums 
of  money  in  an  effort  to  clear  the  shell-strewn  land,  and  to  remove  the 
effects  of  war  throughout  this  territory.  Their  homes,  their  means  of 
livelihood,  were  taken  from  them,  and  then  we,  who  have  not  been 
touched  to  such  an  extent,  criticize  them  because  of  the  fact  that  they 
feel  they  are  overburdened  and  because  they  have  expressed  their  feel- 
ings. 


44 


GE  NE  HAL  CONFERENCE 


I  like  the  French  people.  I  like  the  way  they  extend  their  hos-  ■ 
pitality  to  all  those  who  go  among  them,  and  especially  to  our  mission- 
aries. When  missionaries  go  into  their  homes  they  are  received,  and 
the  people  listen  to  their  message.  True,  it  is  entirely  new  to  them  and 
they  cannot  understand,  as  we  do,  some  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
but  we  are  making  an  effort  to  teach  them,  and  they  are  earnestly  in- 
vestigating our  teachings. 

There  are  no  people  more  energetic  than  the  Belgians,  and  while 
their  country  is  small,  they,  too,  have  suffered  under  similar  condi- 
tions to  those  that  exist  in  France.  Their  country,  also,  was  destroyed ; 
their  homes  were  taken  from  them ;  they  had  no  place  to  go.  Fathers 
and  sons  were  taken  out  of  the  homes  and  the  wives  and  daughters  were 
left  to  "carry  on."  It  is  a  pitiful  sight,  in  passing  through  Belgium  at 
the  present  time,  to  see  the  women  working — working  too  hard — in  the 
fields,  working  in  the  shops  and  factories,  working  along  the  canals 
and  rivers  pulling  the  boats  laden  with  products  and  sharing  their  part 
of  the  labor  in  loading  and  unloading  the  boats  at  their  destinations. 
These  sights  are  very  common.  The  women  are  working  just  as  hard 
as  the  men  to  rebuild  their  beautiful  and  beloved  little  country,  and  we 
who  have  known  their  sacrifices,  and  witnessed  their  sturdy  determina- 
tion to  rehabilitate  their  lands  sympathize  also  with  the  Belgians  for 
what  they  have  passed  through,  and  admire  them  for  what  they  are 
doing. 

Switzerland  was  not  touched  as  these  other  countries  were  by  the 
war.  It  is  a  most  delightful  country,  as  most  of  you  know.  It  is  called 
"the  playground  of  the  world,"  and  truly  it  is  a  playground,  beautiful 
and  inviting.  There  the  people  are  a  little  more  care-free  than  they 
are  in  the  other  parts  of  the  French  mission ;  and,  being  in  general  a 
Protestant  country,  they  are  less  difficult  to  approach  on  religious 
matters. 

So,  summing  up  the  conditions  as  they  exist  at  the  present  time  in 
France,  Belgium  and  Switzerland,  I  can  truthfully  say  that  I  believe 
our  missionaries  will  accomplish  just  as  great  a  work  among  the  French 
speaking  people  as  has  been  accomplished  among  the  British,  the  Nor- 
wegians, the  Dutch,  the  Germans  and  those  of  other  parts  of  the  world, 
if  we  continue  to  work  to  that  end ;  and,  for  one,  I  feel  to  encourage 
those  who  have  the  opportunity  of  going  to  France,  or  to  the  French 
mission  to  accept  the  call,  and  devote. their  time,  efforts  and  talents  to 
the  building  up  of  the  Lord's  work  in  those  countries.  The  gospel  is 
for  all  mankind.  It  is  not  alone  for  the  British  people,  although  our 
first  missionary  labors  in  Europe  were  among  them,  but  it  is  intended 
for  other  nations  of  Europe  and  for  those  in  the  far  parts  of  the  earth. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  the  change  that  comes  into  the  lives  of 
those  who  have  accepted  the  gospel.  It  is  interesting  to  note  the  differ- 
ence in  home  life;  the  change  of  conditions;  the  better  feeling  that 
exists  between  father  and  son,  between  mother  and  daughter.  There 
seems  to  be  kindled  in  their  hearts  a  new  love  for  one  another  and  for 
their  fellow-men,  and^truly  that  is  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Christ. 


ELDER  RUSSELL  H.  BLOOD 


45 


It  has  been  my  privilege  to  watch  these  changes  in  the  lives  of 
some  of  those  with  whom  I  have  been  associated,  and  I  declare  unto 
you  that  the  gospel  is  molding  the  lives  of  those  who  receive  it  and  are 
living  it.   I  believe  that  we,  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  should  devote  our  time  and  talents  to  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  Lord's  work,  because,  after  all,  we  are  here  but  a  short 
period  of  time  and  it  is  our  duty  to  give  these  glad  tidings  that  we  have 
received  to  others  who  have  not  been  so  fortunate  as  we  have  been  in 
being  born  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.    I  feel  and  believe  as 
did  Nephi  of  old  when  he  said,  "I  will  go  and  do  the  thing  which  the 
Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  command- 
ments unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them 
that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing  which  he  commandeth  them.''  I 
believe  that  where  the  Lord  has  laid  down  a  rule,  where  he  has  given 
a  commandment,  that  in  every  case  he  provides  the  way  by  which  we. 
his  children,  may  fulfil  these  commandments  which  have  been  given 
unto  us.    So,  is  there  any  reason  that,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  should 
falter?   Is  there  any  reason  why  we  should  not  heed  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ?   Is  there  any  reason  why  we  should  not  perform 
the  duties  assigned  us  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church?    I  say  there 
is  no  reason.    I  believe  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  to 
observe  the  principles  of  the  gospel  in  his  life.    I  believe  that  it  is  the 
duty  of  every  man,  woman  and  child  who  has  been  baptized  into  this 
Church  not  only  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  but  to  strive 
also  to  give  some  new  hope,  some  encouragement,  to  those  who  have  not 
been  blessed  as  we  have  been. 

When  we  are  traveling  in  the  world,  we  find  that  the  conditions 
which  exist  among  Christian  people  are  appalling,  i.  e.,  we  find  such 
diversity  of  opinion  with  reference  to  the  teachings  of  Christ.  We  find 
that  different  sects  are  teaching  various  doctrines,  and  the  result  is 
that  the  world  at  large  is  thrown  into  confusion.  It  is  difficult  for  one 
who  has  not  heard  the  teachings  of  a  commissioned  servant  of  the  Lord 
to  select  the  principles  and  doctrines  that  he  should  follow  in  his  search 
for  the  way  of  salvation.  It  is  the  hope  and  purpose  of  our  missionary 
work  to  give  guidance,  and  point  the  way,  to  those  who  are  seeking 
truth,  and  I  am  glad  to  say  that  so-  far  as  my  travels  have  revealed,  our 
missionaries  are  accomplishing  that  purpose.  There  is  no  work  in  the 
world  that  gives  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  as  does  the  missionary 
work.  To  go  forth,  bearing  the  Priesthood,  to  give  a  reason  for  the 
hope  that  is  within  us;  to  go  out  and  stand  for  truth  and  for  righteous- 
ness, against  the  evil  forces  which  are  constantly  opposing,  is  a  great 
privilege,  a  choice  blessing. 

The  missionaries  in  France  are  devoting  their  time  willingly ;  they 
are  working  conscientiously.  They  know  the  obstacles  before  them. 
They  realize  that  the  French  have  not  in  the  past  received  the  gospel 
as  have  the  other  people  in  Europe,  because  they  have  not  had  these 
teachings  as  some  of  the  other  people  have  had  them.    Therefore  the 


/ 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

missionaries  are  devoting  extra  time  and  additional  effort  for  the 
furtherance  of  this  noble  work. 

I  commend  very  highly  the  faithful  and  conscientious  efforts  of  all 
those  with  whom  I  was  privileged  to  labor,  because  they  are  men  of 
true  character — they  are  men  who  have  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  at  heart. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  going  to  Palestine,  about  two  years  ago,  and 
while  traveling  there  many  things  occurred  that  have  strengthened  my 
testimony  and  increased  my  understanding  of  the  great  value  of  our 
teachings.  On  one  occasion  I  entered  the  Church  of  the  Nativity  at 
Bethlehem — a  church  which  has  been  erected  over  the  birth-place  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior.  I  had  two  companions  with  me,  and  as  we  viewed 
with  reverence  the  interesting  things  within  the  church,  our  attention 
was  drawn  to  long  strips  of  carpet  and  small  mats  which  seemed  to  sep- 
arate the  floor  space  into  various  sections.  We  walked  on  through  the 
church  toward  the  back  where  we  were  conducted  through  a  small  door 
down  a  few  steps  to  the  manger,  the  very  place,  we  were  told,  in  which 
the  Christ-child  had  been  born.  But  our  curiosity  was  again  aroused 
when  we  noticed  that  an  Arab,  wearing  the  Mohammedan  costume  and 
armed  with  a  rifle  was  standing  guard  over  this  sacred  place,  and  it 
was  upon  inquiry  that  we  learned  the  reason  for  this  unusual  condi- 
tion. A  few  years  previous  to  our  visit  the  different  Christian  de- 
nominations who  had  been  worshipping  at  the  same  time  in  this  church 
had  not  agreed  upon  some  particular  topic  of  discussion  and  a  battle 
had  arisen ;  a  real  genuine  fight  in  which  several  were  wounded.  As  a 
result  of  this  it  was  decided,  perhaps  unanimously,  by  these  Christian 
sects,  these  pseudo-Christians,  may  I  call  them,  to  divide  the  Church 
into  sections  designating  a  particular  section  to  each  sect ;  and  in  order 
that  there  should  be  no  further  confusion  or  fighting  they  also  decided 
to  place  an  Arab  guard,  not  a  Christian,  but  an  Arab  guard,  over  the 
birthplace  of  the  Savior.  Imagine  such  a  condition!  How  disgusting 
it  seems  to  us  to  know  of  the  necessity  of  having  an  armed  Arab  guard 
standing  in  that  most  sacred  place  to  keep  Christians  from  killing  one 
another. 

That  brings  to  mind  the  very  thing  that  exists  today  throughout 
Europe,  that  exists  generally  throughout  all  the  world — the  lack  of 
brotherly  love  and  respect  for  the  rights  of  others.  Hatred  often  arises 
among  Christian  denominations — not  love  for  their  fellow-men ;  not  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  but  in  their  place  antagonism,  strife  and 
contention. 

Now  that  my  mission  has  been  completed  and  I  am  back  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  you. 
I  am  happy  in  the  knowledge  that  we,  as  a  body,  are  united.  We  are 
making  an  effort  to  wipe  out  the  differences  that  exist  throughout  the 
Christian  world,  by  earnestly  teaching  the  true  gospel  of  the  Lord ;  the 
gospel  of  good  will  and  fellowship ;  the  gospel  of  peace.  True,  we  are 
having  difficulty  in  winning  our  way  and  bringing  people  to  the  light 
of  gospel  truth.  Perhaps,  in  numbers,  we  shall  for  a  long  time  be  in 
the  minority,  but  we  have  the  assurance  that  to  us  has  been  given  the 


ELDER  RUSSELL  H.  BLOOD 


47 


true  and  everlasting  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  know  that  the  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  was  a  true  prophet  of  God,  and  we  know  that  in  these, 
the  last  days,  we  are  being  directed  by  the  Lord  through  his  servants. 
This  is  his  Church;  we  are  his  children  and  it  is  our  privilege  to  re- 
ceive the  blessings  which  he  has  promised  us,  provided  we  are  faithful 
and  true  to  all  the  covenants  we  have  made  with  him. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  true  work  of 
the  Lord.  I  know  that  we  are  living  in  a  day  and  age  when  it  behooves 
everyone  of  us  to  hold  firm  and  steadfast  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  strengthen  all  of  us,  that  he  may  give  us  his 
Spirit  at  all  times  to  guide  and  direct  us  in  all  that  we  do,  so  that 
eventually  we  shall  attain  salvation  in  his  kingdom.  May  God  bless  us 
all.  May  the  spirit  of  this  conference  influence  our  lives,  and  may  we 
carry  to  our  homes  the  determination  to  go  on  in  this  work  and  to  do 
the  things  which  will  bring  us  happiness  and  joy,  not  only  in  this  life 
but  in  the  life  to  come.  I  pray  for  these  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EUGENE  J.  NEFF 

Former  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission 

Last  evening  I  had  decided  that  I  ,would  come  to  conference 
early  this  morning,  that  I  might  gain  entrance  to  the  Tabernacle 
and  hear  the  keynote  of  this  conference  given  by  the  President  of 
the  Church,  when  a  party,  casually,  informed  me  that  I  was  to  be 
one  of  the  speakers  here  this  morning.  I  assure  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  desire  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  the 
few  moments  I  may  stand  before  you.  I  have  stood  before  many 
large  congregations,  hut  I  have  never  stood  before  any  that  I  did 
not  feel  reliance  on  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  give  me  utterance.  I 
have  preached  the  gospel  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  spending  eight 
years  of  my  life  there.  I  have  stood  before  thousands  of  tourists 
and  aboard  steamers,  enroute  to  and  from  that  land,  the  governor  in 
his  palace,  and  defended  the  word  of  the  Lord  before  him.  I  have 
stood  in  large  hotels  before  five  hundred  or  more  of  their  prominent 
citizens  in  a  reception  given  to  Prince  Otoni,  a  Japanese  who  is  the 
head  of  ten  million  Buddhists  of  Japan.  I  have  stood  in  our  confer- 
ence assemblies  in  Honolulu,  in  our  beautiful  chapel  there,  where 
we  have  had  a  congregation  as  large,  or  nearly  as  large,  as  the 
congregation  here  today.  I  have  also  met  with  our  Hawaiian  peo- 
ple in  a  little  grass  hut,  when  only  four  or  five  of  us  would  be  gath- 
ered together,  sitting  on  the  mats  and  there  preaching  the  gospel  to 
one  another.  But,  as  I  say,  I  never  stand  before  a  congregation  of 
any  size  or  kind  but  that  I  feel1  reliance  on  the  holy  Spirit  to  give 
me  utterance. 

I  was  pleased  this  morning  to  hear  this  splendid  choir  of  the 
Dutch  people.  Like  Brother  Kimball,  I  am  a  descendant  of  the 
Dutch  people,  my  father  being  one  of  the  Pennsylvania  Dutch,  who 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


emigrated  to  Utah  in  1847.  I  am  thankful  also  that  God  has  made 
as  one  all  nations  of  men,  that  he  has  gathered  us  from  the  north 
and  from  the  south,  from  the  east  and  the  west,  from  the  isles  of 
the  sea,  and  that  all  over  the  world  he  has  sent  his  messengers  of 
salvation,  and  the  people  have  come  to  Zion.  I  regret,  however, 
that  some  of  those  who  have  mlade  such  sacrifices  to  come  to  Zion, 
who  have  made  all  but  the  supreme  sacrifice  to  come  to  Zion,  have 
come  only  to  apostatize.  I  also  know  missionaries  who  have  spent 
years  in  the  mission  field  bringing  salvation  to  the  souls  of  people 
who  sat  in  darkness,  who  have  returned  home  and  neglected  the 
chance  of  salvation  to  their  own  souls. 

As  I  said  before,  I  have  spent  eight  years  in  the  land  of  sun- 
shine and  flowers,  in  the  land  of  fair  Hawaii,  the  land  said  to  be  the 
only  place  under  the  sun — the  only  part  of  the  garden  that  was  not 
touched  by  the  curse  on  man.  Those  little  dots,,  as  they  appear  on 
our  map,  in  the  Pacific  ocean,  really  seem  to  be  a  part  of  the  par- 
adise which  has  not  received  the  measure  of  the  curse  which  some 
of  the  other  nations  have  received.  The  gospel  has  been  firmly 
established  there.  We  have  there  the  third  largest  mission  in  the 
Church,  with  fourteen  thousand  members,  with  baptisms  exceeding 
all  except  two  others  in  the  Church. 

It  was  partly  through  the  instrumentality  of  George  Q.  Can- 
non, I  believe,  the  father  of  Brother  John  Ql  Cannon,  who  offered 
the  opening  prayer,  that  the  work  was  established  there. 

The  Lord  has  always  been  mindful  of  the  seed  of  Lehi,  and  as 
early  as  1842,  the  Prophet  Joseph,  by  revelation,,  sent  Parley  P. 
Pratt,  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  and  Ziba  Peterson  on  a  mission  to  Mis- 
souri to  bring  the  message  of  salvation  to  the  seed  of  Lehi.  While 
their  mission  was  not  altogether  successful  as  far  as  conversion  was 
concerned,  yet  it  showed  the  deep  interest  which  the  prophet  had  in 
that  chosen  people,  the  seed  of  Lehi. 

Before  the  prophet's  death  he  sent  missionaries  to  the  Society 
Islands,  and  they  labored  there  and  opened  up  that  mission. 

Three  years  after  the  pioneers  arrived  here  in  Utah,  in  1850,  at 
the  conference  held  in  October  of  that  year,  Brigham  Young  called 
ten  missionaries  to  go  to  Hawaii  and  open  up  the  work  there.  Some 
people  thought  it  was  wrong  to  take  the  strength  of  their  manhood 
out  of  the  valleys  at  that  time  and  send  men  to  the  nations  abroad ; 
they  needed  them  here ;  they  wanted  to  redeem  this  desert.  Why 
should  they  go  to  Hawaii  and  other  lands  on  missions,  when  it 
seemed  that  their  services  were  most  needed  here  in  Utah,  in  re- 
deeming the  country  from  its  barrenness  ? 

In  those  days  many  missionaries  went  on  foot  over  the  plains 
third  class  on  the  boat,  and  second  on  the  railroad— if  there  was 
any  second.  Things  have  changed  since  then,  and  today  we  go  on 
beautiful,  palatial  ocean  liners,  with  all  the  conveniences  of  the 
world,  and  we  go  first  class.  Not  so  with  these  first  missionaries 
who  went  to  Hawaii.   They  embarked  on  the  voyage,  and  worked 


ELDER  EUGENE  J.  NEFF 


49 


their  way  to  the  port  of  Honolulu,  arriving-  there  and  wending  their 
way  up  through  the  narrow  streets  to  find  lodging  for  the  night, 
and  the  next  day  repairing  to  Punchbowl  Hill,  or,  some  say,  Pacific 
Heights ;  and  there  they  knelt  in  prayer  and  dedicated  the  land  of 
Hawaii  and  themselves  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  That  was  in  1850.  Since  that  time  there  have  been  over 
eight  hundred  missionaries  go  to  Hawaii.  There  have  been  many 
hundreds  and  thousands  converted.  Today  we  are  reaching  back 
and  working  for  the  forefathers  of  those  people  and  are  doing  work 
for  them,  in  the  temple  at  Laie.  Truly  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  reached  out  for  the  salvation  and  redemption  of  the  Hawaiian 
people. 

Elder  George  Q.  Cannon,  who  was  the  youngest  of  the  first 
missionaries  to  go  to  Hawaii,  went  from  Lahaina  to  Wailuku,  going 
down  the  valley  of  Iao  and  to  the  city  of  Wailuku.  As  he  crossed 
the  Wailuku  river,  his  foot  slipped  and  he  fell  into  the  water.  Dis- 
couraged he  arose  and  intended  to  retrace  his  steps,  but  the  Lord 
revealed  to  him  that  he  was  to  go  to  the  city  of  Wailuku  and  there 
the  way  would  be  opened  up  before  him,  so  he  continued  on  his  way. 
Now  it  happened  that  a  certain  chief  who  lived  in  that  city  had  a 
manifestation  that  a  white  man  would  come  that  day  to  him  with 
the  message  of  salvation.  He  related  this  to  his  little  girl.  As 
Brother  Cannon  came  along,  the  girl  saw  him  and  ran  to  her  father 
informing  him  that  the  white  man  had  come.  The  chief  went  out 
and  invited  Brother  Cannon  into  his  home  and  Brother  Cannon 
taught  him  the  gospel.  That  was  the  means  of  opening  up  the  work 
in  that  place.  Brother  Cannon  learned  the  language  and  with  the 
other  elders  went  from  city  to  city,  and  at  Pulehu  they  performed 
the  first  baptisms.  It  was  in  this  village  that  Elders  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Hugh  J.  Cannon  and  E.  Wesley  Smith,  in  1921,  the  latter  then 
presiding  in  Hawaii,  were  visiting  when  they  were  led  to  pray.  As 
they  were  praying  under  a  beautiful  pepper  tree,  one  of  the  Ha- 
waiian brethern  had  a  manifestation.  As  they  finished  the  payer, 
Elder  McKay  officiating,  the  native  elder  said  to  Brother  E.  Wes- 
ley Smith :  "Did  you  see  an  arm  extended  while  Brother  McKay 
was  praying?"  Brother  Smith  answered  that  his  eyes  were  closed 
and  he  did  not.  The  other  brethren  seemed  to  sense  an  unusual  feel- 
ing as  if  visitors  from  the  unseen  were  present,  and  when  they  were 
leaving  the  place  Elder  McKay  declared  that  the  veil  between  them 
and  the  spirit  world  was  very  thin.  Elder  Cannon  spoke  up  and 
said,  "There  was  no  veil."  I  believe  that  the  spirit  of  his  father 
was  present  upon  that  occasion,  as  he  loved  the  people  of  those 
islands.  I  believe  that  he  loves  them  today  and  that  he  is  interested 
in  them  as  much  as  he  ever  was. 

The  first  missionaries  went  from  this  section  around  to  another 
little  town  on  the  east  side  of  the  island,  and  there  they  gathered  in 
a  grass  hut  one  hundred  people  to  hear  the  message  of  these  strange 
white  mem  As  they  all  sat  around  the  mat  and  heard  the  voice  of 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  missionary  from  Utah,  they  were  transfigured  before  George  Q. 
Cannon,  and  he  saw  ninety-seven  of  them  become  white,  and  three 
of  them  remained  dark.  He  did  not  understand.  He  did  not  know 
why  it  was  that  three  of  them  would  remain  dark  and  all  the  rest 
should  become  light.  He  received  a  partial  answer  to  this  manifes- 
tation when  it  was  learned  that  ninety-seven  of  those  people  in 
meeting  at  this  time  joined  the  Church,  became  devout  members, 
lived  and  died  Latter-day  Saints,  while  three  of  them  never  did.  It 
is  said  that  they  will  become  a  white  and  delightsome  people.  They 
are  delightsome  at  present,  and  I  believe  they  are  going  to  become 
white.  They  are  growing  whiter  from  year  to  year.  I  have  said  to 
myself  and  to  some  of  my  intimate  friends  that  I  thought  the  Ha- 
waiian people  would  become  white  and  delightsome,  through  inter- 
marriage. I  do  not  know  whether  that  is  according  to  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Church  or  not,  but  they  jhave  married  the  oriental 
races  and  married  white  people  on  the  islands  to  such  an  extent 
that  today  there  are  more  half  casts  than  there  are  pure  Hawaiians. 

Possibly  the  natives  appear  light  to  us  and  dark  to  people  who 
are  not  acquainted  with  them1.  When  we  are  laboring  among  them 
we  do  not  notice  their  dark  skin,  we  are  one  with  them.  We  are 
not  two  nations  but  one  nation  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  remem- 
ber that  twenty-five  years  ago,  on  my  first  mission,  when  I  first 
arrived  in  Honolulu,  I  saw  the  little  ^Hawaiian  boys  diving  for  pen- 
nies dropped  from  the  boat.  I  thought  they  were  dark,  but  they  do 
not  look  dark  to  me  today.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  only  record 
that  reveals  the  origin  of  these  people,  although  some  people  have 
endeavored  to  connect  them  with  the  negro,  which  cannot  be  done. 

During  the  time  of  the  Johnston  Army  difficulty  all  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  islands  and  in  other  lands  were  called  home  to  Utah. 
Several  thousand  of  the  natives  had  joined  the  Church  and  for  a 
while  they  were  left  without  missionaries.  The  Church  bought 
land  at  Lanai  for  the  purpose  of  gathering  the  members  of  the 
Church  there.  Walter  M.  Gibson,  an  adventurer  and  an  ambitious 
man,  joined  the  Church  and  was  sent  to  the  islands  as  a  missionary. 
He  was  to  go  to  the  Society  Islands,  but  he  landed  in  Honolulu  and 
thought  that  place  was  good  enough  for  him,  so  he  stayed.  He 
represented  himself  as  an  elder  and  had  his  certificate  and  other  cre- 
dentials to  show  and  thus  won  the  natives  who  believed  him  to  be 
one  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  He  gathered  the  people  together 
at  Lanai  and  ruled  over  them  with  a  high  hand.  He  took  advan- 
tage of  their  native  simplicity  and  established  himself  among  them 
with  almost  supreme  power.  A  report  reaching  President  Young 
of  conditions,  he  sent  Elders  Ezra  T.  Benson  and  Lorenzo  Snow, 
who  were  apostles,,  and  Elders  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  William  Cluff, 
down  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  to  adjust  the  trouble  there  with  Gib- 
son. Elders  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  William  W.  Cluff  had  been  mis- 
sionaries in  the  islands  and  were  therefore  acquainted  with  the  peo- 
ple and  their  language,  Elder  Smith  speaking  it  very  fluently.  When 


ELDER  EUGENE  J.  NEFF 


51 


the  brethren  arrived  they  discovered  that  Walter  M.  Gibson  had 
organized  the  members  of  the  Church  in  various  ranks,  charging  them 
for  the  Priesthood  he  conferred  according  to  the  importance  of  the  of- 
fice. He  was  also  collecting  their  tithing  and  spending  it  as  he  pleased 
and  thus  he  was  becoming  rich  at  their  expense.  The  missionaries  en- 
deavored to  get  Gibson  to  repent,  but  he  would  not,  and  so  they  had  to 
cut  him  off  the  Church.  After  laboring  diligently  and  with  much 
difficulty,  they  finally  got  the  native  Saints  to  understand  that  they  had 
been  deceived.  The  brethren  predicted  that  Walter  M.  Gibson  would 
lose  his  influence  and  power  and  would  eventually  die  in  the  gutter  if 
he  did  not  repent.  After  this  he  rose  in  power  on  the  islands  for  a  while 
but  eventually  was  forced  to  leave  and  went  to  San  Francisco  where 
the  prophecy  was  literally  fulfilled.  Mr.  Gibson  -endeavored  to  con- 
vince the  Saints  that  the  missionaries  were  usurpers,  and  he  said : 
"Hearken  to  them,  if  you  will,  but  you  know  what  I  have  done  for  you." 
Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith  who  was  spokesman  for  the  brethren  said  in  sub- 
stance :  "This  man  whom  you  uphold  as  a  leader  and  a  representative 
of  the  brethren  in  Salt  Lake  City  is  a  usurper.  He  was  not  sent 
here.  He  has  gathered  you  and  has  changed  the  ordinances  and  trans- 
gressed the  laws  of  the  Church,"  and  finally  the  people  were  convinced. 

The  people  after  they  were  convinced  gathered  again  at  Laie, 
where  a  gathering  place  was  established  and  where  the  temple  now 
stands. 

I  rejoice  in  having  had  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  Hawaii.  These 
eight  years  have  been  the  sweetest  years  of  my  life,  and  I  long  to  see 
the  interests  of  the  Hawaiian  people  promoted.  I  want  to  see  them 
grow,  as  I  know  they  will  grow  under  the  able  leadership  of  Presi- 
dent William  M.  Waddoups.  The  work  is  growing  there,  and  it 
is  marvelous  how  many  God  has  called  together  from  that  land.  People 
today  almost  concede  the  Hawaiian  people  to  the  "Mormon"  Church. 
I  have  never  seen  Chinese  and  Japanese — those  who  we  claim  are  not 
susceptible  to  the  truth- — intermarry  with  the  Hawaiian  race  without 
their  descendants  becoming  susceptible  to  the  gospel,  and  we  are  bring- 
ing them  now  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

I  see  my  time  is  up.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  the  people 
through  these  sessions  of  conference,  that  we  may  be  inspired  of  the 
Lord  in  gathering  together  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

"Blessed  is  he  who  can  play  upon  the  harp  of  life  the  harmony  of  God, 

Who  can  see  in  lofty  heights,  and  moonlit  plains, 

And  wooded  dell,  and  flowing  fields  of  grain, 

The  love  of  his  own  Maker ; 

Who  can  hear  in  song  of  bird  and  buzz  of  bee, 

In  rippling  rills  and  mighty  cataract's  fall 

The  voice  of  his  own  Creator; 

Who  counts  himself  as  one  small  part  of  God's  great  whole, 

Yet  forms  a  golden  link  in  life's  unbroken  chain. 

Who  sees  and  knows  and  feels  God's  presence  everywhere : 

He  has  learned  the  harmony  of  love  and  life, 

Of  God  and  man." 

Amen. 

A  male  chorus  from  the  choir  sang,  "Rock  of  my  refuge." 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  very  desirous  that  what  I  may  say  to  you  good  people  will  be 
under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

I  have  been  in  the  service  for  a  long  time.  If  I  have  ever  been 
vain — and  no  doubt  I  have  been — I  think  men  are  really  more  vain 
than  women,  and  that  is  a  hard  blow ! — I  have  no  ambition  at  the  close 
of  my  life  other  than  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  give 
service,  and  do  my  duty. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  have  ever  had  a  greater  desire  in  delivering 
a  message  to  the  people  than  the  hope  that  the  Lord  will  burn  it  into 
their  hearts.  After  years  of  experience,  I  have  learned  that  it  is  not 
what  you  say  that  counts,  it  is  what  you  feel.  It  is  not  what  the  speaker 
delivers,  it  is  what  he  thinks.  If  Latter-day  Saints  are  to  fulfil  their 
destiny  among  the  children  of  men,  they  must  do  their  own  thinking, 
and  men  and  women  and  children  in  this  Church,  if  they  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  are  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  are 
entitled  to  inspiration,  to  revelation,  to  dreams  and  visions,  for  their 
own  salvation.  But  that  is  as  far  as  you  can  go,  and  any  person  who 
thinks  he  is  living  so  close  to  God  that  he  can  direct  this  Church,  unless 
he  repents,  he  will  apostatize,  as  surely  as  God  lives.  God  never  gave 
us  inspiration  and  revelation  to  take  the  place  of  the  prophet  of  the 
living  God. 

I  am  a  great  believer  in  looking  forward,  not  downward.  I  am 
not  a  believer  in  looking  backward,  except  for  wisdom  and  for  the 
experience  that  others  have  had.  With  me  it  is  the  future.  But  I  want 
to  tell  you  there  can  be  found  a  great  vision  in  the  past,  and  what 
Brother  Neff  has  said  about  the  brethren  in  the  Hawaiian  mission  can 
be  said  of  other  men.  When  I  think  of  men,  I  think  of  my  father.  He 
was  a  young  man — they  were  all  young  men  at  the  time  of  the  great 
apostasy,  when  there  was  not  a  quorum  in  the  Church,  from  the  presi- 
dency down,  that  was  not  shaken — when  Hyrum  Smith,  the  patriarch, 
the  brother  of  Joseph,  whispered  in  father's  ear,  "You  are  to  go  to 
England  for  the  salvation  of  the  Church." 

One  thing-  I  desire  to  get  before  you  is  this :  Our  people  are  sensi- 
tive to  some  things,  they  are  full  of  criticism.  God  never  created  a  man 
that  could  please  all  the  "Mormon"  people — and  if  any  one  ever  tries 
to  please  all  of  them,  he  will  fail.  You  cannot  please  all  the  people.  The 
Savior  did  not  please  all.  They  crucified  him  and  killed  all  his  witnesses. 
And  so  it  has  been  throughout  history.  Some  people  do  not  think  you  can 
write  anything  by  inspiration  and  read  it.  But  I  want  to  ask- the  peo- 
ple, after  all  the  experience  I  have  had,  "How  can  you  tell  when  you 
have  the  spirit — when  you  pray  and  when  you  administer?  I  have  never 
been  able  to  tell  until  it  comes,  and  when  it  has  come  to  me  and  I  have 
thought  I  had  it,  some  people  did  not  think  so. 

I  have  before  me,  in  a  written  document,  something  I  am  going  to 
say.   You  may  not  remember  it,  but  I  will  say  it  anyway.    I  never  wrote 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


53 


a  book  in  my  life  and  never  will,  but  I  have  written  thousands  of  things 
and  pigeon-holed  them  and  never  read  them  to  anyone  else  but  myself. 
I  want  to  advise  this  people,  if  the  Lord  ever  does  give  you  an  inspira- 
tion, for  heaven's  sake  write  it  down  and  remember  it.  If  Joseph  Smith 
the  prophet  had  not  done  that,  you  would  never  have  had  some  things 
contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  have  in  my  possession  an 
inspired  writing  'by  my  father  that  no  one  in  this  Church  outside  of  a 
few  of  his  family  has  ever  read  and  no  doubt  it  never  will  be  in  print. 
Why?  Because  it  was  given  to  Heber  C.  Kimball  for  his  own  good, 
for  his  own  encourgement,  and  it  would  surprise  you  more  than  any- 
thing you  have  ever  received,  if  I  should  stand  here  and  read  what  God 
revealed  to  his  servant  Heber  C.  Kimball.  But  it  was  not  for  the 
Church. 

I  am  about  to  read  something  to  you.  You  know  I  am  a  native. 
I  guess  I  look  like  it  too,  don't  I  ?  I  was  born  in  these  valleys,  up  here 
on  the  hill,  six  years  after  the  pioneers  arrived.  I  do  not  remember 
much  about  their  hardships  and  about  the  famine,  but  I  certainly  look 
like  I  had  passed  through  the  famine !  I  recall  that  the  first  thing  these 
great  men  did,  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  followers,  was  to 
select  their  inheritances.  Heber  C.  Kimball  had  the  privilege  of  tak- 
ing one  of  these  city  blocks.  And  now  his  posterity  are  a  race  of  peo- 
ple that  we  think  numbers  more  than  two  thousand.  He  went  up  on 
the  hill,  dug  the  rocks  out,  and  built  a  stone  wall  around  the  block. 
And  I  was  kept  inside  of  it  on  Sundays.   And  I  hate  rock  walls  yet ! 

I  will  read  to  you  from  a  talk  I  made  in  San  Francisco  about  four 
years  ago.  I  have  never  delivered  it  or  read  it  since.  I  desire  to  find 
out  what  you  think  about  it.  It  is  about  "The  Most  Beautiful  of  Cities," 
and  it  begins  with  a  quotation. 

Kenneth  L.  Roberts  said :  "There  is  frequently  a  peacefulness 
and  tranquility  about  various  ancient  things  like  old  furniture  and  old 
books  and  old  clothes  and  old  cities,  provided  they  were  good  before 
they  began  to  grow  old,  that  tend  to  soothe  the  minds  of  those  who 
associate  with  them." 

"The  inhabitants  of  the  youngest  states  and  the  newest  cities  are 
the  ones  that  emit  ear-splitting  screams  of  wounded  pride  and  injured 
innocence  at  the  mildest  and  most  justified  of  criticisms."  "Mormons" 
may  modestly  advertise  Salt  Lake  City  as  a  wonder,  or  an  enchanted 
city  and  it  might  sound  by  comparison  with  New  York,  Chicago,  or  San 
Francisco  like  a  child's  description  of  a  new  henhouse,  which  may  or 
may  not  be  an  exaggeration.  I  read  Brisbane's  comments  as  he  passed 
through  Salt  Lake  and,  being  a  native,  I  branded  him  as  a  poor 
humorist. 

I  am  told,  in  a  mild-mannered  way,  that  Salt  Lake  City  would  have 
had  a  population  of  500,000  people,  if  350,000  hadn't  gone  to  California. 
We  have  a  process  of  cleaning  our  city  of  all  growlers  and  kickers. 
We  smoke  'em  out  and  then  the  atmosphere  clears,  the  sun  shines,  the 
grass  turns  green  and  the  flowers  grow,  and  we  honestly  can  claim  Salt 
Lake  to  be— "the  Most  Beautiful  of  Cities." 


54 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


The  following  excerpts  were  taken  from  an  article  entitled  "The 
West  as  I  Saw  Her."  I  read  the  article  while  in  California,  and  if  I 
had  not  written  it  down,  I  never  would  have  had  it,  because  I  am  like 
you  people,  I  only  hold  a  pint  and  I  soon  run  out!  The  article  was 
written  by  Shaw  Desmond,  Irish  author  and  publisher,  in  the  March 
number  of  Scribner's  Magazine.  The  article  is  based  on  the  writer's 
experience  gathered  during  three  visits  to  America  in  which  he  spent 
nearly  a  year,  lecturing  in  the  chief  cities  and  covering  some  50,000 
miles: 

"There  is  a  City  of  Dreams  in  America  as  little  known,  so  far  as 
1  have  read  her  guide-books,  as  one  of  Rider  Haggard's  Lost  Cities  of 
Africa.  Nobody  that  I  have  met  in  America  knows  anything  about  this 
city,  and  this  especially  applies  to  those  who  say  they  have  visited  it. 

"It  is  easily  the  most  beautiful  city  I  have  seen  on  the  North  Amer- 
ican continent.  I  think  it  must  be  one  of  the  most  beautiful  cities  in 
the  world,  and  the  way  to  it  in  mid-winter  is  hard  and  cold  and  cruel ; 
then,  all  at  once,  it  burst  upon  me,  'my  City  Beautiful.'  I  was  running 
into  Salt  Lake.  Once  more  I,  with  whom  the  Indians  had  ridden  along 
the  invisible  trail  by  the  side  of  which  the  iron  rails  had  been  laid,  seen 
by  the  eye  of  imagination,  was  looking  at  a  tented  wagon,  at  the  'prairie- 
schooner'  of  the  old  days,  about  it  a  body  of  silent  men,  with  mouths  of 
leather  and  jaws  of  steel  as  they  broke  through  the  last  pass  in  the 
mountains  to  find  the  land  of  promise  laid  out  before  them  with  the 
snow-capped  mountains  eternally  sentinelling,"  [Do  you  feel  that?  I 
feel  that  in  every  fibre  of  my  being]  "inside  which  they  were  to  build 
their  city,  the  city  to  be  the  most  beautiful  of  the  cities  of  the  continent. 

"Europe  believes  two  things  about  Salt  Lake  and  believes  them 
periodically.  It  believes  that  every  man  there  has  at  least  four  wives 
and  that  every  now  and  then  its  streets  'run  with  blood.'  (Europe  still 
has  confused  ideas  about  avenging  angels.)  My  first  difficulty  in 
Salt  Lake  was  to  find  a  'Mormon.'  "  [They  are  hunting  for  them  yet !] 
"A  red-faced  man  in  a  wondrous  uniform  of  gold  and  crimson  with  a 
badge  in  his  hat  looked  like  the  real  thing,  but  upon  near  inspection  and 
conversation,  turned  out  to  be  a  Baptist  and  a  red-hot  Baptist  at  that. 
He  had  some  mystic  job  at  'meeting  strangers,'  though  I  did  not  find 
that  he  'took  them  in.'  I  rather  think  they  had  to  be  Baptist  strangers. 
Salt  Lake  City  is  the  city  of  shocks.  I  received  shocks  to  every  pre- 
conceived opinion  I  had  ever  had  about  the  'Mormons,'  not  only  did  I 
discover  that  plural  marriages  are  unknown,  but  that  it  was  quite  im- 
possible, save  by  a  doubtful  effort  of  imagination,  to  separate  the  sheep 
from  the  goats,  that  is  to  say,  the  'Mormon'  from  the  Gentile;  and  to 
you  kind  reader  I  leave  it  to  decide  which  are  sheep  and  which  are 
goats."  [And  you  have  to  have  inspiration  to  separate  them  today.  I 
am  in  favor  of  ear-marking  and  labeling  them,  so  you  will  know  them!] 
"I  discovered  a  quiet  respect  for  the  'Mormons'  by  their  Gentile  friends, 
a  constant  and  ever-flowing  tribute  to  'Mormon'  industry,  'Mormon' 
art,  'Mormon'  initiative.  The  'Mormons,'  I  discovered,  were  not  '100' 
but  '101'  per  cent  Americans,  obvious  by  their  loyalty  to  the  American 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


55 


flag,  proud  of  their  American  citizenship,  and  proving  it  all  by  shedding 
their  blood  under  Uncle  Sam  in  the  great  war."  [By  the  way,  the  Kim- 
balls  were  just  as  loyal,  for  Heber  C.  Kimball  had  thirty  grandsons  in 
the  world  war.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  not  one  of  them  was  killed — 
and  they  did  not  run,  either.] 

"I  hold  no  brief  for  the  'Mormon'  outlook,"  says  this  Irish  poet, 
"but  in  a  rather  lengthy  stay  in  Salt  Lake,  during  which  I  was  afforded 
unexampled  opportunities  of  investigation  free  from  'suggestion,'  I 
accumulated  enough  genuine  data,  checked  from  Gentile  sources,  to 
cause  a  revelation  of  the  real  'Mormon,'  whenever  it  is  given  to  the 
world.  I  made  hosts  of  friends  at  Salt  Lake,  where  I  lectured  to  all 
sorts  and  conditions  of  men  and  women,  from  the  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce to  a  lecture  under  the  auspices  of  the  University  of  Utah.  I  came 
to  the  city  without  expectations,  I  left  it  with  the  picture  of  its  icy 
snows  under  the  dawns  descending,  as  I  lay  in  my  room  with  its  glass 
walls,  left  with  the  memory  for  all  time  of  its  broad  streets,  of  its  giant 
organ,  upon  which  my  'Mormon'  friend  permitted  me  to  play,  of  its 
white  'Mormon'  temple,  its  lake  of  the  dead  and  the  limitless  sage  and 
salt  surrounding  it.    It  remains  for  me  a  remembrance  unforgetable." 

Did  you  ever  hear  a  "Mormon"  talk  like  that  ?  Did  you  ever  hear 
a  "Mormon"  damn  this  country?  Well,  I  want  to  advise  them  to  quit  it. 
Every  "Mormon,"  son  and  daughter,  ought  to  lift  up  his  voice  in  praise 
to  God  that  he  led  those  great  prophets  and  their  people  to  a  place  of 
safety.  Think  of  it  for  one  minute,  my  father,  among  the  rest,  was 
driven  from  his  homes  five  times !  No  wonder  they  felt  to  praise  God 
and  dedicate  this  place  to  his  service. 

I  have  now  come  to  what  I  want  to  burn  into  you,  and  I  wish  the 
Lord  would  give  me  the  power  to  do  it. 

A  NEW  GENERATION  HAS  ARISEN 

A  prophet  in  the  wilderness  was  still  crying,  but  there  were  few  to 
pay  heed — there  was  scarcely  anyone  to  listen — material  force  was  in 
evidence  in  its  might.  It  seemed  so  foolish  to  rely  on  so  slender  a 
thing  as  Divine  support. 

It  ought  to  be  self-evident  to  a  Pagan  that  arrogance  and  earthly 
power  can  vanish  over  night,  all  that  is  not  built  upon  God  shall  fail. 
To  trust  to  material  standards  of  strength  brings  calamity ;  material 
force,  as  apart  from  God  and  opposed  to  him,  cannot  succeed.  Why 
can't  race-"Mormons"  understand  that? 

A  new  generation  has  arisen !  The  people  seem  so  content,  so  free 
from  all  concern ;  but  like  the  Jews,  in  the  days  of  Joseph,  they  can  be 
hurled  from  their  high  position  into  the  bitterness  of  slavery.  And 
we  are  going  into  slavery  and  bondage,  and  debt,  as  fast  as  we  can  go ! 

We  older  men  think  our  story  should  be  told  of  our  pioneer  fathers 
and  mothers,  and  the  faith  of  our  ancestors,  and  we  write  a  book,  preach 
a  sermon  or  two,  and  think  our  task  is  ended. 

This  new  generation  that  has  arisen  have  discovered  over  night 
that  a  new  world  has  been  born  and  that  the  United  States  of  America 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  about  to  assume  the  responsibility  of  saving  the  world,  and  they  are 
content  and  satisfied. 

At  no  time  in  the  history  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  people  has  there 
been  greater  danger  for  the  new  generation.  The  danger  comes  from 
ease,  idleness,  and  luxury;  as  there  never  was  a  time  when  the  people 
were  spending  their  means  as  prodigally  as  now  and  ever  reaching  out 
after  material  things. 

The  prodigal  dollar  seems  to  be  swallowing  all  that  is  great  and 
noble  with  some  of  the  new  and  rising  generation. 

To  my  mind  many  of  the  "Mormon"  people  are  becoming  content 
and  self-satisfied.  They  show  evidence  of  falling  down  in  their  spirit- 
ual efforts.  I  know  it  takes  courage  to  say  it.  I  know  that  if  we  say 
anything  to  criticize  the  "Mormon"  people,  they  are  disturbed.  Well, 
they  need  to  be  disturbed !  What  they  need  is  a  little  dynamite !  It 
seems  to  me  a  great  deal  of  that  which  has  been  gained  by  faith,  adver- 
sity, sacrifice  and  years  of  hard  work  is  being  let  loose  of  by  the 
thoughtless  and  careless. 

Our  fathers  and  mothers  died  for  the  faith  and  we  are  living  on 
the  faith  of  our  pioneer  ancestors :  But  behold  !  another  generation  has 
arisen,  and  in  the  very  instant  of  our  self-content  the  silence  is  broken 
by  our -being  hurled  from  our  mighty  purpose. 

Joseph  Smith,  the  mighty  prophet,  was  chosen  of  God  to  send 
forth  the  message  of  salvation  to  the  children  of  men — he  was  martyred 
— but  that  was  not  the  end.   It  was  the  beginning  of  this  great  work. 

President  Brigham  Young  rightfully  succeeded  him,  and  his  fol- 
lowers with  him  fled  to  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

Brigham  Young  led  the  way  for  the  first  treckers  of  adverture- 
some  spirit  in  the  year  1847,  and  he  and  his  followers  were  the  original 
builders  in  what  Daniel  Webster  christened  "The  Great  American 
Desert." 

On  entering  the  Salt  Lake  Valley,  Divine  Intelligence  at  once 
manifested  itself  in  all  his  deliberations.  "This  is  the  place."  Why,  to 
some  people  that  has  become  a  chestnut,  a  hoary  chestnut !  But  it  was 
inspiration  from  God.  "This  is  the  place."  There  beat  in  the  heart  of 
this  great  man — he  was  a  master,  a  prophet  of  God — a  great  load  of 
care,  the  destiny  of  his  people!  How  I  have  suffered  for  just  being 
the  father  of  a  family,  the  destiny  of  my  children !  .  And  here  was  a 
great  prophet,  with  the  destiny  of  a  great  people. 

One  has  to  believe  to  understand  the  destiny,  object,  and  purpose 
of  this  people.  The  leaders  understood  and  believed ;  they  knew ;  God 
revealed  it  to  them.  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  followers  said, 
We  will  make  this  barren  waste  bloom  and  furnish  clean,  unsullied 
wealth  for  thousands  of  poor  people  from  all  over  the  world,  who  have 
been  crushed  under  the  Juggernaut  of  our  Christian  civilization — we 
are  going  to  plant  them  under  the  shadow  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  we 
will  create  an  Eden  out  of  the  desert,  we  will  lay  out  townsites,  cities, 
and  build  churches  and  schoolhouses  and  raise  wheat  and  vegetables. 
God's  children  shall  be  converted  to  the  gospel  of.  Jesus  Christ  and  be 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


57 


given  land.  They  shall  have  a  chance  for  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit 
of  happiness.  They  shall  know  their  toil  will  bring  them  some  returns, 
so  that  they  can  have  a  home  and  a  hope  for  the  future. 

It  was  a  big  thought,  a  great  idea,  manifested  by  Divine  Intelli- 
gence.  He  was  a  prophet.   He  had  a  vision  of  the  future. 

These  great  leaders  did  not  want  the  land  and  water  for  them- 
selves— they  wanted  men  to  be  God's  agents — stewards  for  God,  and 
hold  the  land  in  trust  as  a  sacred  inheritance.  This  land  was  to  belong 
to  the  lowly  of  the  earth  and  to  be  saved  for  the  hewers  of  stone  and 
the  drawers  of  water. 

When  I  think  of  my  father,  who  had  his  inheritance,  owned  the 
land  where  most  of  the  Capitol  grounds  are  and  away  off  to  the  left, 
I  remember  that  he  took  these  poor  English  people  that  had  emigrated 
from  Europe,  and  took  them  up  on  the  hill,  showed  them  a  lot,  and  asked 
them  if  they  would  build  a  home,  and  they  said  they  would,  and  it  cost 
them  $2.50!  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  the  brethren  never  speculated  and 
made  money  off  the  people.   Any  charges  to  the  contrary  are  false. 

These  valleys  in  the  mountains  were  to  be  made  to  bloom  and  blos- 
som for  the  poor,  whose  hope  is  the  land,  that  gave  them  birth  and  life 
and  would  receive  them  in  its  bosom  when  they  died  and  made  a  safe 
return  to  their  home. 

Just  take  the  time  to  think  of  the  thousands  of  acres  of  lonely, 
thirsty  land  waiting  for  centuries  to  be  reclaimed  from  the  ruins  of 
ages.  They  saw  in  vision  green  fields,  and  farms,  just  as  Josepk  Smith 
prophesied  it  would  be.  "It  is  the  place  where  you'll  find  all  the' things 
your  souls  are  hungering  for.  Where  the  people  will  own  big  farms, 
with  green  fields  of  wheat  and  grass,  with  purple  blossoms  and  long 
rows  of  fruit  trees  and  vegetables."  Is  that  true?  It  should  be  true, 
and  that  was  the  intent  and  purpose  of  our  leaders.  My  father  pleaded 
with  his  family,  almost  as  he  would  plead  for  life,  to  keep  their  inherit- 
ance. I  am  the  only  one  of  them  on  the  block,  and  I  am  trying  to  sell, 
too! 

All  will  be  most  beautiful,  in  the  Desert !  Through  those  words 
I  can  get  a  vision.  I  have  a  moving-picture  mind.  It  was  a  vision,  a 
dream  come  true.    Nobody  was  there  to  despoil  their  dream. 

A  new  generation  has  arisen.  Think  of  your  pioneer  fathers  and 
mothers  who  built  better  than  they  knew.  Think  of  the  men,  women, 
and  children  toiling  in  sweat  shops,  with  little  food,  families  without 
money,  without  hope  and  without  fuel,  facing  cold  winters  in  these 
great  cities,  who  have  been  gathered  to  a  barren  empire  which  our 
ancestors  have  transformed  into  an  Eden — a  land  of  liberty — a  home 
for  the  oppressed  of  God's  children,  where  they  can  have  life,  liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  happiness  to  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  their  conscience.  The  stranger  has  found  his  way  amongst  us  and 
many  of  us  have  "sold  our  inheritance  for  a  mess  of  pottage"  and  are 
seeking  elsewhere  hoping  for  more  ease,  more  idleness,  more  luxury. 
In  this  once  lonely,  sage-covered,  wind-swept  valley  there  should  be 
erected  a  granite  monument  and  written  thereon  this  epitaph : 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


''Who  seeks  for  heaven  alone  to  save  his  soul, 
May  keep  the  path,  but  will  not  reach  the  goal, 
While  he  who  walks  in  love  may  wander  far, 
Yet  God  will  bring  him  where  the  blessed  are." 

Henry  VanDyke. 

On  that  occasion,  looking  upon  those  people  in  the  San  Francisco 
chapel  and  I  prophesied;  (You  know  I  am  a  son  of  a  prophet.)  and  our 
young  elder  there,  Joseph  E.  Larkin,  wrote: 

"A  prophecy  made  by  President  J.  Golden  Kimball  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  at  a  meeting  held  in  the  San  Francisco  L.  D.  S. 
chapel,  March  16,  1924,  and  is,  as  near  as  I  remember,  as  follows : 

"  'I  prophesy  that  before  many  of  you  go  to  the  other  side  you 
will  have  a  burning  desire  in  your  hearts  to  return  to  the  places  where 
the  leaders  of  the  Church  have  counseled  the  Saints  to  settle,  and  you 
will  give  anything  in  the  world  to  have  a  home  there.'  " 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  told  that  North  and  South  America  is 
Zion,  but  with  all  of  its  beauty  and  splendor  and  wonderful  opportu- 
nities, there  is  no  place  in  the  world  as  safe  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
as  where  God's  servants  had  their  inheritance.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Hark,  hark,  my  soul,"  with  Jane  Van  Roosendaal, 
Nellie  Katwyk  and  Nellie  Bruin  singing  the  solo  parts.  v 

President  Kimball  announced  that  the  audience  had  certainly  appre- 
ciated the  music  rendered  by  the  Choir,  "I  always  feel  to  bless  our 
singers.';1 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Arthur  Barnes. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  2  o'clock,  Sunday  afternoon,  April  3. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells,  of  the  Irirst  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  Dutch  choir,  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
Elder  A.  Van  Roosendaal,  conductor;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation."  . 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  R.  S.  Collet. 
Miss  Nellie  Bruin  sang  a  solo,  "Save  me,  O  Lord." 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

Former  President  Northwestern  States  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is  a  great  privilege  I  enjoy  in 
standing  before  you  for  a  few  moments.  During  that  time  I  trust  that 
I  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  conference,  which  has  marked  the  pre- 
ceding meetings  of  the  morning.  I  have  recently  returned  from  a  mis- 
sion to  the  Northwestern  states.  It  was  a  glorious  period  in  my  life. 
One  of  my  regrets  is  that  every  man  in  our  communities  may  not  have 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


59 


the  pleasure  and  enjoy  the  profit  of  presiding  over  a  mission.  It  is  one 
of  the  finest  and  most  developing  experiences  that  can  come  into  the 
life  of  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

Perhaps  the  most  baffling  and  most  difficult  problem  to  overcome 
in  missionary  labor  is  the  indifference  of  the  world  to  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  learn  that  men  of  intelligence,  who  are  other- 
wise engaged  in  the  deep  quest  for  truth,  give  no  consideration  to  the 
most  wonderful  and  vital  philosophy  that  has  ever  been  revealed  to 
the  world,  in  the  system  incorporated  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  establishes  an  idealism 
that  is  incomparable,  in  the  history  of  the  world,  except  where  the  truth 
has  formerly  existed.  Men  who  are  seeking  the  good  of  their  fellows, 
if  they  would  but  heed  the  call  of  the  gospel,  could  accomplish  to  the 
fullest  of  their  heart's  desire.  I  was  disappointed  in  men  whom  I  met, 
men  of  high  character,  men  of  intelligence,  men  with  vast  intellectual 
understanding,  but  who  were  incapable,  apparently,  of  seeing  either  the 
philosophy  or  the  wondrous  saving  power  incorporated  in  the  system 
of  theology  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  And  yet 
when  I  come  to  draw  comparisons  between  the  indifference  of  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  and,  unhappily,  the  indifferences  manifest  among  the 
people  here  at  home,  I  am  not  so  greatly  astonished. 

Today  marks  the  97th  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  How  far  have  we  who 
have  lived  in  the  light  of  that  gospel  progressed  under  this  wonderful 
system  that  God  has  given  us  for  our  development?  You  have  but  to 
ask  yourselves  what  effect  it  has  had  in  our  lives ;  and  as  it  has  affected 
our  lives,  so  have  we  made  progress.  As  we  advantaged  ourselves  of 
that  which  the  gospel  has  for  all  men,  and  particularly  for  those  of  us 
who  have  been  reared  in  it,  to  that  degree  are  we  extended  in  the 
breadth  and  depth  of  our  understanding.  The  gospel  is  of  a  character 
that  a  man  may  be  benefited  by  it  if  he  will,  but  it  has  no  help  for  the 
man  who  fails  to  take  advantage  of  that  which  it  offers.  It  is  a  perfect 
system  of  self-development.  A  man  can  rise  to  the  most  exalted  heights, 
if  he  will ;  or  he  may  loiter  by  the  way,  waste  the  day-light  until  he  is 
overtaken  in  his  darkness  and  thence  must  grope  his  way,  because  he 
failed  to  take  advantage  of  the  light. 

Today  is  our  day,  brethren  and  sisters.  We  cannot  hope,  when 
the  night  comes,  when  the  grave  has  demanded  its  own,  for  the  develop- 
ment and  progress  that  is  available  to  us  today.  These  bodies  of  ours 
God  has  given  us  for  development.  We  are  separated  from  them  when 
we  go  into  the  grave.  We  are  not  ourselves,  we  are  only  partial  when 
the  body  and  the  spirit  are  separated.  Why  will  we  loiter,  instead  of 
developing  that  which  is  perfect,  the  human  soul.  Separated,  it  is  a 
divided  thing;  together,  it  may  rise  to  the  most  exalted  height.  We 
preach  to  the  world  faith.  Have  we  faith?  We  preach  to  the  world 
repentance.  Do  we  repent?  Do  we  place  our  feet  each  day  upon  the 
mistakes  of  yesterday,  using  them  as  stepping  stones  to  a  higher  life, 
to  the  new  birth  symbolized  by  the  baptism  of  water?    Have  we  taken 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  ourselves  every  day  the  new  birth  of  the  Spirit?  Have  we  risen  to 
more  exalted  heights?  Are  we  in  closer  communion  with  God  than 
we  were  yesterday?  If  not,  we  have  failed  to  take  advantage  of  the 
opportunity  offered  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

The  prophet  said,  "You  must  acquire  capacity."  To  do  what.'  To 
endure,  to  suffer,  to  wait,  to  be  patient,  to  plod,  ever  with  the  goal  in 
view  of  the  service  of  the  Almighty  and  the  salvation  of  his  children. 
The  reason  God  is  God  is  because  he  has  acquired  all  for  which  we  are 
laboring.  To  the  degree  that  we  fail  in  acquisition  and  development,  to 
that  degree  must  we  wait  before  we  can  come  into  the  presence  of  him 
who  has  overcome  all  things. 

It  is  true  that  we  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  it  is  only  of 
value  to  us  as  we  profit  by  what  it  offers.  Are  we  profiting?  That  is 
for  us  to  answer.  If  we  are  not  honest,  if  not  truthful,  do  not  love  our 
neighbors;  if  we  are  not  devoted  to  the  service  of  God,  we  have  lost, 
have  failed  in  development,  failed  in  expansion.  We  have  failed,  as  the 
Prophet  adjured  us,  in  the  acquisition  of  capacity. 

The  glorious  thing  in  this  gospel  to  me  is,  as  the  Prophet  has  told 
us,  that  we  must  acquire  capacity  that  we  may  learn  how  to  be  gods 
ourselves.  The  most  tremendous  thought  that  was  ever  revealed  to 
the  human  family  was,  that  we,  the  sons  of  God,  may  rise  to  be  what 
he  is.  That  is  the  most  glorious  thing  that  ever  animated  the  human 
heart  or  stimulated  the  human  mind,  that  we,  weak,  erring  though  we 
are,  may  be  even  as  God,  our  Father.  What  a  tremendous  thought. 
Can  we  do  it  by  permitting  ourselves  to  be  engaged  in  the  grovelling 
things  of  the  world,  or  descend  into  the  filth  that  marks  the  age  in 
which  we  live,  or  shall  we  rise  above  it  ?  As  Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball 
said  here  this  morning,  shall  we  think  for  ourselves?  Shall  we  be  of 
those  who  radiate  the  light  of  the  gospel  of  the  Son  of  God,  or  shall  we 
follow  after  the  world,  partaking  of  what  the  world  has  to  offer  and 
sharing  in  the  sufferings  that  must  inevitably  ensue?  Sin  is  death,  as 
righteousness  and  the  works  of  God  are  salvation.  Let  us  hold,  as 
Shakespeare  says,  a  mirror  up  to  our  souls  wherein  we  may  see  re- 
flected what  we  are.  We  are  radio  stations.  From  us  emanates  just 
what  we  are.  We  are  sending  out  into  the  universe  these  flashes  that 
come  from  the  human  heart,  that  come  from  the  soul  which  is  a  god  in 
embryo. 

This  people,  after  97  years  of  activity  and  teaching,  should  be  as  a 
city  set  upon  a  hill.  And,  as  was  said  here  this  morning,  Salt  Lake 
City  is  a  noted  city,  by  reason  of  its  history,  its  manner  of  establish- 
ment, the  circumstances  which  produced  the  development  of  this  inter- 
mountain  country.  We  are  a  noted  people,  by  reason  of  the  achieve- 
ments of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  This 
is  a  remarkable  city.  But,  if  we  were  living  as  the  Almighty  intends 
that  we  should  live,  we  would  be  so  remarkable  that  no  man  or  woman 
would  come  among  us  but  would  testify  of  the  truth  that  this  is 
indeed  the  city  of  the  Saints,  a  place  where  God  abides. 

I  am  anxious  for  our  people.    I  am  anxious  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 


-ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


61 


Christ  may  be  extended  to  the  world.  We  can  preach  it.  May  all  of 
us  in  our  lives  so  manifest  the  glories  of  the  gospel  that  men  and  women 
shall  praise  God  because  of  having  seen  manifest  in  us  the  gospel  of 
his  Son.   This  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  ANDERSON 

Former  President  Swedish  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  sincerely  pray  that  God  may 
inspire  me  with  his  holy  Spirit  in  what  I  shall  say. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  a  message  to 
the  world :  they  declare  that  God  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and 
all  that  is  in  them;  that  he  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits;  that  we  lived 
with  him  in  the  eternal  world;  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  only  be- 
gotten Son,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Further,  that  God 
arranged  a  plan  before  this  earth  was  organized  by  which  his  sons 
and  daughters  who  would  obey  could  return  into  his  presence. 

The  fundamental  of  that  plan  is  faith  in  God  and  in  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  Jesus,  in  speaking  to  the  Jews,  called  their  attention  to  this 
very  important  fact.  He  asked  them,  "Do  ye  believe  in  God?"  They 
claimed  to  believe  in  God.  Then  he  said,  "Believe  also  in  me."  Have 
the  people  of  the  world  the  message  of  Jesus  Christ?  Do  they  actually 
believe  in  him  as  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the  world?  Christ  says, 
"Whither  I  go  ye  know,  and  the  way  ye  know.  Thomas  saith  unto  him, 
Lord,  we  know  not  whither  thou  goest ;  and  how  can  we  know  the  way  ? 
Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  am  the  way,  the  truth  and  the  life:  no  man 
cometh  unto  the  Father,  but  by  me."  Jesus  is  the  way,  the  truth  and 
the  light ;  no  man  cometh  back  to  God  except  through  Jesus  Christ. 

This  plan  requires  not  only  faith  in  God  and  in  his  Son,  but  it 
requires  repentance  from  sin,  leaving  off  wickedness  and  all  that  which 
is  wrong  before  God ;  for  if  one  desires  to  enter  into  the  presence  of 
God,  one's  sins  must  be  taken  away.  The  plan  provides  baptism  for 
the  remission  of  sins.  And  in  order  that  one  may  remain  faithful  and 
true  to  God,  so  that  he  shall  not  falter  by  the  way-side,  a  further 
arrangement  is  provided,  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  leads 
men  and  women  into  all  truth,  leads  them  back  to  God,  and  makes 
it  possible  for  them  to  live  that  Christ-like  life  which  shall  eventually 
prepare  them  for,  and  entitle  them  to,  eternal  life. 

We  read  in  the  holy  scriptures  that  Jesus  took  Peter,  James  and 
John  upon  the  Mount  and  there  conversed  with  Moses  and  Elias,  and  a 
cloud  over-shadowed  them,  and  a  voice  was  heard  from  the  cloud  say- 
ing, "This  is  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,  hear  ye  him." 
Was  this  voice  only  to  Peter,  James  and  John?  It  was  the  voice  of  God 
to  all  his  children,  born  and  unborn,  declaring  that  this  was  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  the  well  beloved.  "Hear  ye  him."  Have  the  people  of 
the  world  caught  the  echo  of  the  sound  of  that  voice?  Has  faith  entered 
into  their  souls?  Do  they  believe  Jesus  Christ  to  be  the  very  Son  of 
God,  as  the  Father  declared  he  was?    More  than  a  hundred  years  ago 


(»2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  same  voice  came  back  to  the  earth  and  declared  to  the  boy  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  that  this  was  his  beloved  Son  and  to  hear  him,  and  from 
that  day  to  this  the  message  has  gone  forth  from  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  God  has  again  spoken,  declared  anew 
the  divinity  of  his  Son,  the  way  to  salvation,  the  plan  prepared  for  his 
children,  that  it  might  be  possible  for  them  to  return  to  him  and  gain 
eternal  life. 

What  the  world  needs  today  is  a  spiritual  awakening,  a  realization 
of  what  God  requires  of  them,  a  turning  away  from  sin,  seeking  the 
way  to  which  Jesus  Christ  calls  attention. 

Jesus  remarked  to  his  disciples,  when  he  sent  them  out  to  preach 
the  gospel  and  to  baptize  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  "I  will  be  with  you  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world." 
But  what  requirements  did  he  make?  "Observe  all  things  whatsoever 
I  have  commanded  you."  That  warning  is  to  all  the  world,  to  those  who 
accept  Jesus  Christ  and  the  gospel  plan.  They  are  required  to  observe 
and  keep  all  of  the  commandments  and  the  sayings  of  Jesus.  If  it  so 
be  that  we  do  that,  he  will  be  with  us  even  to  the  end  of  the  world. 
Salvation  and  exaltation  are  promised  only  upon  condition  that  we 
remain  faithful  unto  the  end. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  this  afternoon  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  restored  and  that  this  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  established 
upon  the  earth.  I  also  bear  witness  to  you  of  the  truth  of  the  saying  of 
Jesus  when  he  said  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  likened  unto  a  pearl 
of  great  price,  that  when  men  found  it  they  went  and  sold  all  that  they 
possessed  that  they  might  possess  that  pearl  of  great  price. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  means  more  to  me  than  all  the  gold  and 
silver  of  this  world,  and  all  that  this  world  has  to  offer.  I  prize  my 
standing  in  this  Church  above  all.  And  I  pray  that  God  will  bless  you, 
and  each  of  us,  that  we  may  continue  faithful  unto  the  end,  and  those 
who  have  not  yet  made  covenant  with  God,  that  they  may  seek  until 
they  shall  find.  Go  to  God  and  he  will  not  turn  away  from  you  tyut 
will  show  you  the  way,  the  truth,  that  shall  eventually  save  and  exalt 
you  in  his  presence.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

Former  President  Canadian  Mission 

I  believe  I  appreciate  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  one 
who  is  called  upon  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus 
Christ.  Four  years  ago,  it  was  my  privilege  to  enter  the  ministry  in 
the  Dominion  of  Canada.  During  that  length  of  time  there  have  been 
many  experiences  which  have  come  to  me,  for  which  I  am  grateful. 
Like  President  Young,  I  feel  that  if  it  were  possible  for  every  man  to 
be  called  into  the  ministry,  what  a  wonderful  blessing  it  would  be  to 
him.  I  appreciate  beyond  my  power  to  express  to  you  today  the  honor 
that  came  to  me  to  preside  over  one  of  the  missions  of  the  Church.  I 
am  grateful  to  the  authorities  of  the  Church  that  they  have  had  confi- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


63 


dence  in  me  that  has  given  me  inspiration  and  encouragement  to 
work  in  that  part  of  God's  vineyard.  I  am  grateful  that  I  have 
been  associated  with  young  men  and  women  who  have  devoted  them- 
selves to  the  work  of  the  ministry,  in  bearing  their  testimony  concern- 
ing this  great  and  mighty  work.  I  am  grateful  that  I  succeeded  a  man 
who  had  spent  a  number  of  years  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  whose 
experience  taught  me  many  things.  I  am  grateful  that  there  has  been 
a  man  chosen  and  selected  to  take  my  place  who  is  filled  with  the  testi- 
mony of  this  work,  whose  fine  intelligence  and  spirit  will  count  much 
for  his  leadership  in  that  part  of  the  world.  It  was  my  privilege  to  ac- 
company him  during  three  or  more  weeks  through  different  parts  of 
the  mission,  and  I  want  to  say  in  favor  of  President  Charles  H.  Hart, 
that  he  has  won  for  himself  a  place  in  the  hearts  of  those  with  whom 
he  has  come  in  contact.  I  am  sure  that  his  leadership  will  bring  many 
souls  to  a  knowledge  of  this  work.  I  am  grateful  for  my  honorable  re- 
lease. I  am  grateful  for  the  responsibilities  that  now  confront  me. 
And  through  the  help  of  God  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  shall  always  be 
engaged  in  some  activity  where  my  life  will  touch  the  hearts  of  men 
and  women  and  inspire  them  to  a  greater  realization  of  the  greatness  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  This  period  of  my 
life  in  the  Canadian  mission  has  been  the  greatest  since  I  can  remember. 
I  have  filled  missions  before,  but  I  believe  that  I  have  a  deeper  under- 
standing of  life  as  it  fits  into  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  than 
I  ever  have  had  before.  My  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this 
work  has  grown,  and  my  joy  has  been  when  the  opportunity  has  come 
to  me  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  men  and  women,  on  the  streets, 
in  the  halls  and  in  the  cottages,  bearing  witness  to  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ. 

ijust  prior  to  the  time  of  my  departure  from  the  mission  field,  I 
was  invited  into  a  home,  and  in  the  course  of  our  evening's  conversation, 
naturally  we  drifted  upon  those  principles  that  we  were  advocating. 
The  gentleman  of  the  home  made  this  statement,  "I  believe  that  you 
have  one  of  the  finest  and  best  religions  that  I  have  ever  known,  but 
there  is  one  thing  that  I  cannot  understand  or  comprehend :  Why  is  it 
necessary  in  this  day  and  time  to  have  a  prophet,  or  prophets  of  God?" 
I  asked  him  if  he  accepted  the  Bible  as  being  the  word  of  God.  His 
reply  to  me  was  that  he  accepted  this  sacred  record. 

"You  believe,  do  you,  that  Adam,  in  the  beginning,  talked  with 
God,  and  that  it  became  necessary  for  God  to  reveal  to  him  his  mind 
concerning  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  at  that  time?"  He  said,  "I  ac- 
cept that  without  any  mental  reservations." 

"You  accept  the  thought,  do  you,  that  is  expressed  in  Holy  Writ, 
that  God  directed  Noah  through  the  light  and  power  of  his  Holy  Spirit 
to  do  the  work  that  he  did,  and  that  Noah  was  in  constant  communi- 
cation with  him  concerning  the  work  that  he  should  do,  in  order  to 
bring  the  gospel  message  to  those  who  were  then  living?" 

"I  accept  of  that,"  he  said. 

"And  you  accept  the  historical  record  that  Enoch  talked  with  God, 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  that  all  that  Enoch  did  in  bringing  to  pass  the  proper  interpretation 
of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  was  a  necessary  thing  in  his  day?" 

"I  accept  that  without  any  mental  reservations,"  he  said  again. 
And  so  we  went  down  through  the  prophets  until  we  came  to  the  day 
of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  We  asked  him  the  question  if 
he  accepted  in  his  heart  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  as  it  is  recorded 
in  the  New  Testament,  and  that  that  plan  of  life  and  salvation  affected 
human  life  here,  hereafter,  and  in  the  days  before  we  came  into  the 
earth.  He  said,  "So  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  see  and  understand,  I 
believe  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  he  is  the  author  of  such 
a  plan  as  you  suggest,  and  that  he  was  guided  and  directed  by  the  spirit 
of  revelation  in  all  the  things  that  he  accomplished  while  he  was  upon 
the  earth;  that,  through  his  sonship,  through  his  mission  as  the  Mes- 
siah, as  the  Redeemer  of  the  human  race,  he  brings  not  only  salvation 
here  upon  the  earth  but  an  exaltation  through  obedience  to  his  prin- 
ciples in  the  kingdom  of  God,  in  the  hereafter." 

I  said  to  him,  "If  you  believe  all  of  that,  I  think  that  I  am  able  to 
reason  with  you  and  show  you  how  necessary  it  is  to  accept  Joseph 
Smith  as  an  instrument  in  God's  hand  in  bringing  to  pass  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ." 

He  replied,  "I  would  be  glad  if  you  could  impress  that  thought  in 
my  heart  and  in  my  mind." 

We  therefore  referred  to  that  passage  of  scripture  that  we  so  fre- 
quently use  in  the  ministry,  the  revelation  of  John,  while  he  was  upon 
the  isle  of  Patmos :  "And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of 
heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 
Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters."  And  I  asked  him  if 
he  believed  in  that  scripture. 

He  said,  "I  must  accept  of  it,  if  I  accept  of  Jesus  Christ  the  Lord, 
because  it  was  his  gospel  that  the  angel  was  to  bring." 

"Then  you  must  accept  the  thought  that  either  that  angel  has  come 
and  delivered  his  message,  or  that  he  is  to  come." 

"I  believe,"  said  he,  "that  that  angel  must  come  or  that  he  has 
come." 

Then  we  spent  the  remainder  of  the  evening  in  explaining  to  him  the 
claims  that  were  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  concerning  the  ad- 
vent of  the  angel  Moroni,  bringing  to  him  the  everlasting  gospel,  as  we 
see  it  and  understand  it  and  feel  it,  as  we  read  those  passages  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  We  were  able  to  come  to  a  conclusion  that  the  gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  Master  had  been  restored  to  the  earth.  His  heart  was 
lifted  and  there  seemed  to  be  a  spirit  take  possession  of  him  and  he 
praised  God.  From  the  expressions  that  followed,  weeks  afterwards 
I  am  sure  of  his  appreciation  of  the  knowledge  and  the  feeling  that  he 
had  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  there  is  no  need  in  all  the  world 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


65 


that  is  of  greater  importance  to  us  than  to  have  a  deeper  meaning  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master.  I  wonder,  sometimes,  if  we  under- 
stand that  passage  of  scripture  that  is  so  frequently  quoted  in  the 
world:  "For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten 
Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  ever- 
lasting life."  I  wonder  if  we  catch  the  significance  and  the  depth  of 
that  thought,  that  love.  We  know  our  love  for  our  own  offspring,  and 
how  difficult  it  would  be  for  us  to  sacrifice  any  one  of  them  for  a 
cause,  unless  we  were  commanded  of  God.  I  believe  that  we  can  under- 
stand pretty  well  what  Abraham  was  up  against  when  he  was  com- 
manded by  God  the  eternal  Father  to  offer  his  son  Isaac  as  a  sacrifice. 
But  that  was  not  comparable  to  the  love  that  God  had  for  his  children 
here  upon  the  earth,  that  he  would  offer  his  only  begotten  Son  to  re- 
deem mankind,  to  introduce  into  the  world  a  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
that  by  yielding  obedience  to  it  we  would  receive  our  exaltation  in  God's 
celestial  kingdom.  And  that  is  what  the  message  of  Jesus  Christ  means 
to  every  man  and  woman  in  this  world,  so  far  as  they  are  able  to  under- 
stand it. 

I  am  thankful,  beyond  my  power  to  express,  that  I  have  had  the 
opportunity  of  bearing  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  that- the  gospel  of  redemption  was  instituted  by  him  in  the 
eternal  worlds  before  his  advent  into  mortality,  that  I  was  a  party  with 
you  in  accepting  of  that  plan.  I  am  grateful  that  I  have  had  the  priv- 
ilege of  bearing  witness  that  the  restoration  of  that  gospel  has  come  to 
mankind  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  stand  as  a  living  witness  to  the  healing  power  of  God,  my  eternal 
leather.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  God,  I 
should  not  be  here  today,  I  should  have  passed  on  years  ago.  But 
through  the  love  of  God,  through  his  son  Jesus  Christ,  the  recognition 
of  his  Priesthood,  the  healing  power  thereof,  I  have  been  permitted  to 
live  on  the  earth,  to  leave  my  testimony  not  only  at  home  but  in  many 
of  the  nations  of  the  world  and  on  the  islands  of  the  seas.  I  bear  it 
to  you  at  this  particular  time,  and  ask  God  to  bless  it  and  sanctify  it 
to  our  use  and  us  to  his  service,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "God  is  with  his  people,"  Elder  D.  Jongejan  sing- 
ing the  solo  part. 

ELDER  E.  L.  BUTLER 

Former  President  Samoan  Mission 

When  I  was  introduced  as  one  who  has  been  president  of  the 
Samoan  mission,  I  imagine,  possibly  many  of  you  felt  somewhat  as 
Brother  Parry,  who,  when  I  was  bringing  some  children  with  me 
through  the  Temple  grounds  with  a  party  of  tourists  a  week  or  so  ago, 
asked  if  there  were  any  missionaries  present,  and  if  so  to  stand  up. 
When  I  arose,  he  said,  "Brother,  where  were  you  a  missionary?"  I 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


said,  "In  Samoa."  And  he  said,  after  scratching  his  head,  "All  right, 
I'll  bite.    Where  is  Samoa?" 

I  assure  you  that  it  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  me  to  be  here  today.  I 
certainly  enjoyed  the  first  meeting  of  this  conference  in  the  Tabernacle 
this  morning,  the  good  sermons  of  President  Grant  and  President  Ivins. 
It  has  been  nearly  six  years  since  I  had  the  opportunity  of  attending 
a  general  conference  of  our  Church.  I  have  been  in  the  islands  for  five 
years  and  four  months  on  this,  my  second,  mission  to  Samoa.  In  all,  I 
have  spent  about  nine  years  in  the  islands. 

Possibly  that  mission  seems  insignificant  to  many  in  this  audience, 
but  it  might  surprise  some  of  you  to  tell  you  that  we  have  more  ad- 
herents to  our  Church  in  Samoa  than  we  have  in  the  whole  great  con- 
tinent of  Australia.  And  I  believe  there  are  just  as  faithful  souls  among 
the  Saints  in  that  mission  as  there  are  in  any  other  mission  in  the  world. 
I  believe  that  last  year  we  had  more  converts  in  that  mission,  with  our 
eighteen  missionaries,  than  they  had  with  somewhat  more  than  forty 
in  the  Australian  mission.  They  are  sincere  converts,  and  they  are  a 
fine  race  of  people.  And  what  I  would  like  to  say  today,  if  God  will 
bless  me  with  his  Holy  Spirit  while  I  stand  before  you,  is  something 
that  will  cause  the  mothers,  the  fathers,  or  the  brothers  and  sisters,  or 
those  who  are  supporting  their  loved  ones  in  the  various  mission  fields, 
to  feel  that  their  means  are  not  wasted.  I  want  to  thank  the  fathers  and 
the  mothers,  yes,  and  the  brothers  and  the  sisters,  of  those  missionaries 
we  have  in  Samoa  for  the  hearty  support  they  have  given  them, 
in  the  way  of  encouraging  letters,  and  in  the  money  expended 
to  care  for  those  missionaries  while  they  are  in  the  mission  field. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  your  means  and  your  kind  words  are  not  wasted. 
Those  missionaries  are  giving  an  account  of  themselves,  are  doing  a 
splendid  work ;  and  the  prophet  of  God  is  not  wrong  when  he  is  sending 
out  somewhat  more  than  1,200  missionaries  each  year  to  different  parts 
of  the  world.  As  Brother  Young  and  Brother  Quinney  have  said,  it  is 
one  of  the  grandest  opportunities  that  comes  into  a  man's  or  a  woman's 
life.  Many  of  us  who  are  in  this  audience  are  missionaries  or  have 
been  missionaries.  Some  of  you  are  sending  your  boys  and  girls  ;  some 
of  you  are  waiting  for  their  return.  Sometimes  we  feel  that  it  is  a  sac- 
rifice, that  it  is  hard  to  raise  the  means  to  support  John  while  he  is 
away,  or  Mary  while  she  is  in  the  mission  field.  But  it  is  just  as  es- 
sential that  we  work  for  the  development  of  the  spiritual  side  of  the 
nature  of  our  children  as  it  is  that  we  work  for  the  development  of  their 
mentality,  or  the  development  of  the  physical  side  of  their  natures. 
With  all  due  respect  to  the  work  accomplished  by  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations of  our  Church,  the  greatest  training  our  children  get  is  when 
they  are  in  the  mission  field  preaching  the  gospel. 

I  want  to  tell  of  a  few  little  incidents  that  happened  while  I  was 
in  the  mission  field,  just  to  illustrate  the  experiences  that  your  sons 
have.  After  I  left  Salt  Lake  City  and  while  we  were  on  board  the 
steamer,  I  was  in  charge  of  a  company  of  eleven  missionaries  a  num- 
ber of  them  going  to  Honolulu,  the  others  to  the  Samoan  mission.  On 


ELDER  E.  iL.  BUTLER 


67 


the  way  between  here  and  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  there  was  on  board 
an  officer  of  the  Reorganized  Church,  and  we  had  many  opportunities 
for  a  discussion  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  At  Honolulu  another 
officer  of  the  Reorganized  Church  came  on  board,  and  he  asked  the 
privilege  of  explaining  to  these  young  men  the  difference  between  our 
doctrines  and  those  of  the  Reorganized  Church.  He  said,  "Some  day 
we  expect  to  have  all  you  'Mormons'  come  in  with  us  in  the  true 
Church."  I  said,  "All  right,  brother,  but  if  you  want  to  explain  your 
side  of  the  question  to  these  young  men,  I  think  it  no  more  than  fair 
that  I  have  a  chance  to  answer  you  and  have  them  all  listen."  He  said 
that  was  fair.  I  said,  "I  have  no  doubt  that  any  one  of  them  could 
answer  you  all  right,  but  I  ask  that  privilege." 

We  went  to  one  of  the  largest  staterooms  on  the  boat,  and  for  an 
hour  and  a  half  this  man  explained  the  principles  of  his  religion  and 
the  difference  between  the  "Mormon"  Church  and  the  Reorganized 
Church.  We  did  not  have  time  that  day  to  finish  our  discussion,  -but 
the  next  day  we  met  in  this  same  stateroom  and  for  about  an  hour  and 
a  half  I  answered  his  arguments  one  by  one  to  the  best  of  my  ability. 
I  felt  satisfied  when  these  young  men  came  up  and  shook  my  hand  and 
said,  "Thank  God,  we  are  'Mormons.'  " 

Brethren  and  sisters,  as  mission  presidents,  we  are  doing  all  we 
can  for  the  development  of  your  boys  and  girls  who  are  placed  under 
our  care.  We  are  doing  our  best  for  their  benefit,  to  see  that  the  spirit- 
ual side  of  their  natures  are  developed  as  they  should*  be.  But  do  not 
expect  too  much  of  the  mission !  Do  not  expect  too  much  of  a  mission 
president.  I  say,  do  not  expect  too  much,  but  do  all  you  can  at  home 
before  they  go  on  missions  to  see  that  they  live  their  religion.  Do  not 
believe  that  old  saying  that  a  rough  and  ready  boy,  or  one  who  has 
sown  his  wild  oats,  makes  the  best  missionary.  It  may  be  true  to  the 
extent  that  the  boy  or  girl  who  has  the  energy  in  them  makes  the  best 
missionary,  but  it  is  not  true  that  the  one  who  has  sown  wild  oats  makes 
the  best  missionary.  That  is  not  true,  because  he  has  to  overcome 
many  of  the  characteristics  developed  through  his  life  before  he  can 
be  a  true  missionary. 

We  have  a  varied  experience  in  our  mission.  We  have  to  learn 
another  language,  and  we  meet  and  do  most  of  our  work  among  the 
islanders,  the  natives.  But  we  also  have  the  opportunity  of  meeting 
the  white  people  who  are  there.  One  or  two  instances  I  would  like  to 
relate. 

About  three  years  ago,  my  wife  and  I  were  asked  by  a  chaplain  of 
the  navy  in  Tonga  Tonga,  Tutuila,  Samoa,  to  take  charge  of  his  service. 
(This  is  in  line  with  the  statement  of  President  Grant  this  morning, 
speaking  of  the  tolerance  that  is  shown  today  toward  our  work.)  The 
chaplain  sat  in  the  back  of  the  hall.  We  had  an  audience  of  about 
forty-five  or  fifty,  consisting"  mainly  of  the  officers  of  the  U.  S.  Navy 
with  their  wives.  Governor  Kellogg  of  American  Samoa  was  present. 
We  did  our  best  to  present  the  truths  of  the  gospel  to  those  people.  Most 
of  them  had  never  heard  the  principles  of  our  religion.  You  can  judge  of 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  success  by  the  fact  that  when  that  meeting  was  closed,  from  the  Gov- 
ernor down,  every  one  came  and  shook  our  hands  and  invited  us  into 
their  homes — something  which  had  never  been  done  before.  Later  we  had 
an  opportunity  of  holding  service  there  a  number  of  times.  The  youngest 
elder  in  our  mission  at  that  time,  Elder  Benham,  from  Clinton,  held  serv- 
ice there.  At  one  time  when  the  chaplain  had  gone  away  the  Governor 
came  to  me  and  told  me  that  he  was  going  to  ask  one  of  our  missionaries 
to  take  charge  of  the  Thanksgiving  service  for  the  Navy,  because  the 
chaplain  would  be  away.  Elder  Benham,  who  had  associated  with  these 
people,  was  chosen  to  take  charge  of  that  service.  That  chaplain  had  ex- 
perienced difficulty  in  getting  more  than  five  to  ten  out  to  his  services, 
but  on  the  morning  when  Elder  Benham  went  down,  the  sailors,  the 
officers,  got  together  and  they  were  practically  all  unanimous  in  their 
decision  to  attend  the  service — because  of  their  love  and  respect  for  the 
"Mormon"  missionary;  not  because  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  but  on  account  of  their  love  and  respect  for  that  young 
man  who  was  holding  the  service. 

We  had  the  opportunity  of  entertaining  Sir  Charles  Fergusson,  the 
Governor  General  of  New  Zealand,  and  Lady  Fergusson  at  our  mission 
headquarters  in  Apia,  Samoa,  together  with  Sir  George  Richardson, 
the  Governor  of  Western  Samoa,  and  Lady  Richardson,  his  wife. 
I  presented  both  of  those  gentlemen  with  a  volume  of  the  book,  The 
Fruits  of  Mormonism,  by  Dr.  F.  S.  Harris  and  N.  I.  Butt.  I  learned 
afterwards  that  the  gentlemen  read  those  books.  They  acknowledged 
to  me  that  they  did  not  know  anything  about  "Mormonism,"  but  they 
told  one  of  our  elders  later,  when  they  visited  one  of  the  other  islands, 
that  they  were  interested  in  our  doctrines.  At  the  time  that  I  was  re- 
leased to  come  home  and  my  successor,  Elder  Willard  Smith,  from 
Canada,  was  appointed  to  take  my  place,  we  called  upon  Sir  George 
Richardson  at  his  home.  I  might  say,  incidentally,  that  it  is  the  old  home 
of  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  which  is  now  the  Government  home.  Our 
mission  headquarters  are  in  the  shadow  of  the  hill  upon  which  is  located 
the  grave  of  Robert  Louis  Stevenson.  We  called  at  the  home,  and  met  Sir 
George  Richardson  and  Lady  Richardson,  and  introduced  President 
Smith  and  his  wife.  Afterwards  we  met  him  in  his  office,  and  we 
talked  over  business  affairs,  and  he  said  that  he  had  great  respect  for 
the  work  we  are  doing  in  Samoa,  and  said  that  as  far  as  it  is  in  his 
power,  he  will  give  us  his  support.  He  said  that  he  and  his  wife  had 
often  talked  about  the  character  of  the  "Mormon"  elders.  He  said 
there  had  been  many  come  to  Samoa  since  he  had  been  there,  three 
and  a  half  years,  and  he  had  never  known  one  of  them  to  commit  an 
act  that  would  bring  disrepute  upon  his  name.  And  he  said,  "You 
know,  Elder  Butler,  how  many  young  men  I  have  had  to  send  back  to 
New  Zealand  because  of  their  acts  in  coming  to  this  island.  Why  is 
it  that  your  boys  come  out  here,  young  men,  and  can  stay  here  three 
years,  and  we  never  hear  of  a  smirch  upon  one  of  their  names,  but  our 
boys  come  from  New  Zealand  in  governmental  capacity  for  govern- 
ment positions,  and  we  have  to  send  a  certain  per  cent  of  them  back, 


ELDER  E.  <L.  \BUTLER 


69 


because  their  acts  are  something  that  bring  a  stigma  upon  the  gov- 
ernment?" I  said,  "It  is  the  government  that  they  have  in  their  own 
homes  and  the  teachings  under  which  they  are  reared." 

I  feel  that  I  have  talked  long  enough.  I  pray  the  blessings  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  upon  this  audience,  upon  our  conference,  and  I  want 
all  of  you  fathers  and  mothers  to  feel  that  whatever  you  expend  in 
sending  your  boys  and  girls  upon  missions  is  well  expended. 

God  bless  you  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

Just  before  Christ  ascended  into  heaven,  he  addressed  his  apostles 
as  follows :  "All  power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth.  Go  ye 
therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost:  teaching  them  to  ob- 
serve all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you."    (Matt.  28:18-20.)  „ 

In  obedience  to  that  command  the  apostles  of  old  and  others 
preached  the  gospel,  first,  in  Palestine,  and  later,  in  the  surrounding 
countries.  Paul,  the  apostle  of  the  Gentiles,  was  the  first  missionary, 
as  far  as  history  tells  us,  to  testify  of  the  risen  Redeemer  in  Syria,  Asia 
Minor,  Greece,  Italy,  etc.  It  is  not  known  into  how  many  countries  the 
missionaries  of  the  earlier  Christian  Church  extended  their  operations, 
but  it  is  an  established  fact  that  they  preached  in  most,  if  not  in  all,  the 
countries  bordering  on  the  Mediterranean.  Some  legends,  at  least, 
would  have  Thomas  and  others  preach  the  gospel  in  England,  as  well 
as  in  far-off  India.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  world  was  not 
known  to  the  people  in  those  days  as  it  is  now.  For  instance,  America 
was  perhaps  not  known  to  the  people  of  the  eastern  world,  nor  was  the 
south  part  of  Africa  known  to  the  nations,  in  the  northern  countries, 
until  centuries  later. 

The  angel  designed  to  restore  the  gospel  anew  in  our  day  is 
heralded  by  John  the  Revelator  in  the  following  language:  "And  I 
[John]  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,  saying  with  a  loud  voice, 
Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come: 
and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the 
fountains  of  waters."    (Rev.  14:6.) 

While  the  prediction  reads  that  the  angel  had  the  everlasting  gos- 
pel to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  it  is  not  to  be  supposed 
that  he  personally  would  have  to  proclaim  it  with  his  own  voice,  or  by 
his  own  exertion  to  everybody.  The  natural  conclusion  is,  that  men  in 
mortality  would  be  called,  as  had  been  the  case  in  all  former  dispensa- 
tions, to  do  the  missionary  work  among  their  fellow-men.  Thus  it  was 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  chosen  as  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  to  usher  in  a  new  dispensation,  and  no  sooner  had  he  been  favored 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  a  glorious  vision,  early  in  the  spring  of  1820  (in  which  he  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son),  than  he  bore  testimony  of  what  he  had  seen  and 
heard.  Afterwards  he  received  several  visits  from  the  Angel  Moroni, 
in  whose  appearance  the  Latter-day  Saints  see  the  fulfilment  of  John's 
prediction.  Several  years  passed  during  which  other  holy  messengers 
restored  the  Priesthood  to  the  earth  through  the  instrumentality  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  as  soon  as  the  Church  was 
organized  missionary  labors  were  commenced  in  earnest.  And  while 
Oliver  Cowdery  is  credited  with  preaching  the  first  gospel  sermon  ever 
delivered  by  any  elder  of  the  Church  in  our  dispensation,  it  is  but  fair  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  he  should  be  called  the  first  Latter-day 
Saint  missionary,  for  ever  since  he  had  received  his  first  vision,  in  1820, 
he,  even  in  the  midst  of  severe  persecutions  and  sufferings,  ceased  not 
bearing  his  testimony  to  the  effect  that  he  had  conversed  with  angels 
and  had  been  chosen  of  the  Lord  to  introduce  a  new  gospel  dispensation. 

By  careful  study  of  the  early  historical  documents  of  the  Church 
we  have  been  able  to  ascertain  that  the  Church  sent  out  at  least  sixteen 
missionaries  in  1830,  including  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  al- 
ready named.  In  addition  to  these,  David  Whitmer,  Samuel  H.  Smith, 
Joseph  Smith,  Sr.,  Don  Carlos  Smith,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Hyrum  Smith, 
Newel  Knight,  Richard  Ziba  Peterson,  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  Sidney 
Rigdon,  Frederick  G.  Williams,  John  Murdock  and  Orson  Pratt,  all 
performed  missionary  labors,  in  several  of  the  states  in  1830.  The 
record  also  shows  that  fifty-eight  missionaries  were  sent  out  from  the 
headquarters  of  the  Church  to  preach  the  restored  gospel,  in  1831, 
seventy-two  in  1832,  forty-one  in  1833,  one  hundred  eleven  in  1834,  and 
so  on. 

Until  1837,  the  preaching  by  the  elders  was  confined  to  the  United 
States  and  Canada,  but  in  1837,  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  others  opened  up 
the  great  missionary  work  which  since  that  time  has  been  carried  on 
continuously  in  the  British  Isles.  In  1843,  the  first  missionaries  were 
called  to  preach  the  restored  gospel  to  a  people  who  did  not  under- 
stand the  English  language.  I  have  reference  to  the  Society  Islands 
mission,  which  was  opened  early  in  1844  by  Noah  Rogers,  Addison 
Pratt  and  Benjamin  F.  Grouard,  who  were  called  as  missionaries  to  the 
islands  of  the  Pacific  in  1843.  Two  or  three  thousand  natives  of 
Tubuai,  the  Tuamotu  Islands,  and  adjacent  groups  soon  became  identi- 
fied with  the  Church. 

During  the  exodus  of  the  Saints  from  Nauvoo  in  1846  and  1847, 
missionary  labors  were  somewhat  at  a  standstill,  as  many  of  the  young 
brethren  who  had  previously  been  engaged  in  the  missionary  fields 
were  chosen  as  pioneers,  or  as  soldiers  in  the  Mormon  Battalion,  but 
after  the  Saints  had  found  a  more  nearly  permanent  home  in  the  valleys 
of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  missionary  labors  were  carried  on  with  vigor 
and  much  success.  Then  it  was  that  the  first  missionaries  were  called 
to  continental  Europe,  and  also  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands ;  soon  branches 
of  the  Church  were  raised  up  in  several  European  countries,  and  mis- 
sions established,  most  of  which  are  in  existence  to  this  day.  Alto- 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


71 


gether  the  Church  has  established  about  forty  distinct  missions,  known 
by  the  following  titles :  United  States,  Canadian,  Palestine,  Tahitian, 
French,  Italian,  Scandinavian,  Swiss,  Icelandic,  South  American,  Ger- 
man. Maltese,  West  Indian,  Gibralter,  South  African,  Chinese,  New 
Zealand,  Siam,  Netherlands,  Samoan,  Austrian,  Finnish,  Mexican, 
Turkish,  Belgian,  Tongan,  Japan,  Armenian,  etc. 

The  missionary  labors  in  the  United  States  have  been  grouped  in- 
to several  distinct  missions,  each  of  which  includes  several  states,  such 
as  the  Eastern  States,  the  Northern  States,  the  Southern  States,  the 
Indian  Territory,  the  Central  "States,  the  Western  States,  the  North- 
western States,  the  California  and  the  Northcentral  States.  The  orig- 
inal Scandinavian  mission  has  also  been  divided  into  the  Swedish, 
Danish,  and  Norwegian  missions.  Also  the  British  mission  has,  at 
times,  been  segregated  into  smaller  groups  which  have  been  known 
under  different  titles,  such  as  the  English,  the  Welsh,  the  Scotch  and 
the  Irish.  By  recognizing  these  general  sub-divisions  we  find  that 
the  Church  since  its  organization,  in  1830,  has  established  about  forty 
distinct  and  separate  missions,  of  which  twenty-seven  are  still  in  exist- 
ence. 

After  a  thorough  study  of  Church  history,  and  by  gathering  in- 
formation from  all  possible  sources,  we  are  now  able  to  state  from 
actual  count  that  the  Church,  since  its  first  organization  in  1830,  and 
until  the  close  of  the  year  1926,  has  sent  approximately  35,275  mission- 
aries out  from  the  headquarters  of  the  Church  to  preach  the  gospel  in 
many  lands  and  climes.  But  this  number  does  not  by  any  means  rep- 
resent all  the  missionaries  who  have  labored  for  the  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel. For,  while  the  elders  delegated  and  sent  out  from  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church  usually  opened  up  the  several  missions  throughout  the 
world,  thousands  of  local  elders  (that  is,  converts  who  in  the  different 
states  and  countries  were  ordained  to  the  ministry)  have  labored  with 
equal  zeal  and  success ;  and  particularly  in  countries  where  the  English 
language  is  not  universally  spoken,  these  local,  or  native,  elders  have 
had,  in  many  instances,  even  more  success  than  some  of  those  sent  out 
from  headquarters.  In  earlier  days  there  were  perhaps  twenty  local 
missionaries  to  each  American  elder  in  the  British  Isles,  the  Scandi- 
navian countries,  and  even  in  Germany  and  Switzerland.  That  rule, 
however,  has  been  reversed  in  later  years  when  most  of  the  missionary 
work  has  been  done  by  American  elders.  But  taking  a  retrospective 
glance  at  the  missionary  operations  of  the  Church,  during  the  ninety- 
seven  years  of  its  existence,  we  are  safe  in  making  the  assertion  that, 
at  least,  70,000  elders  and  missionary  sisters,  called  and  set  apart  regu- 
larly to  the  ministry,  have  been  engaged  in  actual  missionary  labors  in 
the  world,  by  maintaining  that  the  local,  or  native,  elders  have  equalled 
in  number  the  missionaries  sent  out  from  Church  headquarters. 

In  view  of  these  facts,  it  may  consistently  be  left  to  the  good  judg- 
ment of  fair-minded  persons  who  are  interested  in  the  great  Latter- 
day  work,  commenced  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  under  divine  guid- 
ance, whether  the  elders  and  missionaries  of  the  Church  have  been  true 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  their  calling  to  preach  the  gospel  as  they  have  been  commanded,  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  And  especially  when  it  is 
considered  that  this  great  host  of  laborers  in  God's  vineyard  have 
preached  and  labored  mostly  without  purse  or  scrip,  or  at  least  have 
done  their  work  at  their  own  expense,  or  at  the  expense  of  parents, 
relatives  and  friends. 

If  there  are  any  countries  in  the  world  which  have  not  been  cov- 
ered by  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries,  it  is  surely  not  the  fault  of  the 
Church,  nor  is  it  to  be  ascribed  to  any  neglect  on  the  part  of  its  mission- 
aries. It  is  mostly  due  to  the  fact  that  religious  liberty  does  not  exist 
in  all  nations,  and  that,  in  many  instances,  our  elders  have  been  pro- 
hibited by  stringent  laws  from  ful filing  the  divine  command.  In  several 
countries  they  have  even  been  forbidden  to  land,  and  in  other  countries 
where  they  have  succeeded  in  landing,  they  have  been  imprisoned  and 
banished.  I  am  convinced  that  the  Church  authorities  have  always  been 
willing,  and  are  still  willing,  to  send  elders  to  every  nation  under  the 
sun,  whose  governments  and  inhabitants  would  be  willing  to  receive 
them.  God  grant  that  the  elders  of  modern  Israel  may  soon  enjoy  the 
privilege  of  preaching  the  gospel,  without  hindrance,  in  all  the  world. 
Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  and  instructions  we  have 
received  from  our  brethren,  and  in  the  excellent  music  which  has  been 
rendered  here  in  this  session  of  conference.  Surely  our  hearts  have 
been  filled  and  we  have  rejoiced  in  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father. 
No  greater  work  was  ever  undertaken  than  that  of  saving  the  souls  of 
the  children  of  men.  No  greater  work  has  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
ever  undertaken  than  to  save  the  souls  of  his  children.  It  is  the  grandest, 
the  greatest  undertaking  that  ever  has  been  inaugurated.  Even  he  who 
fashioned  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  all  things  that  in  them  are, 
has  no  greater  work  than  that  of  saving  his  own  children.  We  find 
that  in  the  revelations  of  God  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as  recorded 
in  The  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Indeed,  it  is  the  writings  of  Moses,  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  through  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet, 
wherein  he  says,  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  We  may  look  out  upon  this  great 
universe  in  which  we  live ;  the  planet  on  which  we  stand,  the  earth, 
is  merely  a  little  speck  in  that  great  universe ;  yet,  he  it  is  who  made 
that  universe.  And  this  earth  upon  which  we  stand,  with  all  of  its 
wonderful  mechanism,  with  the  wonderful  revolutions  which  this  earth 
makes  upon  its  own  axis,  once  in  twenty-four  hours,  giving  us  day  and 
night,  and  then  upon  its  orbit  around  the  sun  in  its  allotted  time  of  365 
days  5  hours  46  minutes  and  48'  seconds,  year  in  and  year  out  with 
mathematical  precision !  What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is !  The  other 
planets  make  similar  revolutions  in  their  allotted  times.   And  then  again 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


73 


we  look  farther  out  into  the  universe  and  see  those  glittering  stars,  each 
one,  as  we  are  told  by  astronomers,  is  a  blazing  sun,  having  its  own 
planetary  system  similar  to  the  one  of  our  own  solar  system.  How 
marvelous  is  the  work  of  God,  all  over  this  universe! 

Is  there  anything  greater  than  the  making  of  a  universe?  Yes, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  God's  children.  The 
worlds  have  been  created  to  become  the  habitations  of  the  children  of 
God.  Shall  they  be  of  greater  consequence  than  the  children  of  God 
themselves?  Oh,  no!  The  great  work  of  God  is  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  his  children.  And  it  has  been  written 
that  though  a  man  shall  labor  his  whole  life  and  save  but  one  soul, 
how  great  shall  be  his  joy  with  that  soul  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 
These  reflections  ought  to  make  us  think  seriously  of  this  work  of 
God,  with  which  we  are  identified,  and  in  which  we  should  have  our 
part,  for  he  has  invited  us  to  have  part  with  him  in  that  great  and  glo- 
rious work.  How  great  shall  be  our  joy,  or  how  great  shall  be  the  joy 
of  those  men  and  women  who  go  out  into  the  world,  who  leave  their 
homes,  their  fathers  and  their  mothers,  their  wives  and  their  children, 
and  all  that  they  love  and  hold  dear,  and  go  out  and  devote  years  of 
their  time  in  helping  our  Father  in  heaven  to  accomplish  his  great  and 
glorious  work  of  bringing  his  children  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth, 
that  they  may  have  eternal  life ! 

This  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  within  it  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation,  it  is  working  upon  those  who  have  embraced  it, 
who  have  received  it,  and  the  result  is  that  this  people  are  the  best  peo- 
ple on  all  the  face  of  the  earth.  It  is  working  in  their  lives!  Th^ey 
are  learning  how  to  do  something  for  their  fellow-men ;  they  are  learn- 
ing how  to  control  themselves  and  to  become  better  men  and  better 
women  day  by  day.  And  as  we  come  from  week  to  week,  partake  of 
the  emblems  of  our  Lord's  suffering,  to  our  Sacramental  meetings,  and 
there  with  clean  hands  and  pure  hearts,  we  are  indeed  eating  and  drink- 
ing eternal  life  into  our  souls.  Why?  Because  in  doing  so  we  are 
keeping  this  command  of  God  and  bearing  witness  that  we  do  always 
remember  Christ,  who  gave  his  life  as  a  ransom  for  all  mankind.  But 
we  must  come  to  the  table  of  the  Lord  in  a  repentant  mood ;  full  of 
faith,  manifesting  our  faith  in  him 'as  the  Savior  of  the  world,  for  there 
is  no  other  name  given  under  heaven  whereby  men  and  women  can  be 
saved. 

I  say  that  this  gospel  is  working.  It  is  sanctifying  and  purifying 
our  hearts  ;  if  we  are  living  it,  and  practicing  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  it  is  sanctifying  our  hearts,  it  is  making  us 
better  men  and  better  women  than  we  were,  we  are  growing  in  the 
knowledge  of  God  and  in  good  works  day  by  day.  That  is  the  plan 
that  the  Almighty  had,  and  he  expects  that  his  children  shall  derive  the 
benefit  if'  they  will  only  obey  him. 

The  saving  of  a  human  soul!  What  a  great  work  it  is.  Even 
though  that  soul  be  only  your  own,  what  a  great  and  glorious  work  it  is, 
if  you  shall  only  succeed  in  that! 


74 


GENERAL  C  ONFERENCp 


What  is  a  soul  ?  You  know  .there  are  a  great  many  peculiar  ideas 
in  the  world  regarding-  what  a  soul  is.  Men  have  an  idea  that  it  is 
something  fluttering  around  on  the  inside  of  this  anatomy,  and  they 
call  it  a  soul.  Contrast  their  vague  conception  of  that  soul  with  the 
clear,  concise  definition  that  was  given  to  the  prophet  Joseph  in  that 
glorious  revelation  known  to  us  as  Section  88,  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  "And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man."  Our 
spirits  which  came  from  God,  begotten  of  him  in  the  eternal  worlds, 
and  for  which  this  world  was  created,  and  our  bodies  that  we  obtained 
in  coming  here,  constitute  our  souls.  The  spirit,  dwelling  in  this  body, 
animating  it  and  making  it  alive,  is  a  child  of  God. 

There  are  many  things  to  accomplish  in  bringing  to  pass  the  soul's 
immortality  and  its  eternal  life,  but  before  it  can  ever  enter  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God  it  will  have  to  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness,  for 
no  unclean  thing  can  enter  there.  And  so  we  read  in  that  same  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "And  the  resurrection  of  the  dead  is 
the  redemption  of  the  soul."  The  spirit  and  this  body,  in  conjunction, 
make  a  human  soul.  After  a  while  they  separate  and  the  spirit  will 
go  back  to  God,  whence  it  came,  and  the  body,  the  other  part  of  that 
soul,  will  return  to  mother  earth,  whence  it  came,  and  that  separation 
that  takes  place  we  call  death,  the  natural  death,  the  temporal  death. 
But  after  a  while  it  is  to  come  and  take  up  that  body,  this  spirit  is,  and 
become  immortal.  By  what  power  can  that  be  done?  By  your  own 
individual  power?  No.  This  same  revelation  explains  by  what  power 
that  shall  be  done,  for  it  says,  "The  redemption  of  the  soul  is  through 
him  who  quickeneth  all  things" — through  him  who  created  man  in  the 
very  beginning,  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  who  makes 
the  grass  to  grow,  who  makes  the  birds  to  fly,  the  fish  to  swim,  the 
beasts  to  rove  upon  the  fields — every  living  thing.  Through  him  who 
quickeneth  all  things,  through  him  shall  be  brought  to  pass  this  resur- 
rection from  the  dead  which  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul.  Redemption 
from  what?  From  death  and  the  grave.  Therefore,  we  read  on,  "This 
soul  must  needs  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness."  Why?  "That 
it  may  be  prepared  for  celestial  glory."  That  is  what  the  revelation 
says.  Hence  the  gospel  has  been  revealed,  that  we  might  sanctify  and 
purify  our  lives  from  all  unrighteousness. 

That  is  what  the  gospel  is  for,  and  it  is  working  upon  this  com- 
munity. We  are  not  all  perfect ;  we  are  a  long  way  short  of  it,  but  it  is 
working.  It  is  making  us  better  men  and  women  than  we  were,  we  are 
growing  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  in  good  works  day  by  day.  Let 
us  continue  to  advance  and  to  grow.  Let  us  lay  hold  on  eternal  life  by 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  by  cleansing  and  purifying  our- 
selves from  all  unrighteousness.  That  is  what  the  gospel  teaches  us 
and  that  is  what  it  is  for.  Now  we  hear  of  the  glad  tidings  that  come 
from  the  mission  field,  how  our  boys  and  girls,  our  young  men  and 
women,  who  go  out  as  missionaries,  are  placing  splendid  examples  be- 
fore the  people  in  the  world.  What  splendid  news  we  hear  of  our 
young  men  and  our  young  women  everywhere  throughout  all  the  mis- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


75 


sions  of  the  world !  And  we  also  hear  a  good  report  of  our  young  men 
and  our  young  women  here  at  home.  They  are  the  best,  the  cleanest,  the 
purest  men  and  women,  boys  and  girls,  that  are  to  be  -found  in  all  the 
world,  freer  from  the  contamination  of  the  world,  freer  from  those 
terrible  diseases  that  afflict  a  wicked  and  a  corrupt  world.  Let  us  con- 
tinue to  walk  in  the  truth,  let  us  continue  to  abide  in  that  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  will  cleanse  and  purify  us  from  all  unright- 
eousness. 

This  is  the  work  of  a  lifetime.  Do  not  get  the  thought  that  you 
are  good  enough  just  as  you  are,  for  though  good  as  you  are  and  clean 
as  you  are,  honest  as  you  are,  virtuous  as  you  are,  we  can  all  improve, 
every  one  of  us.  Let  us  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  in  good 
works.  Let  us  not  approach  the  world  in  that  Pharisaical  spirit,  "I  am 
holier  than  thou."  Oh,  no  ;  for  "we  are  all  sinners,  and  if  any  man 
think  he  is  without  sin,  he  deceiveth  himself  and  the  truth  is  not  in 
him."  What  advantage,  then,  have  we  over  the  world?  Why  do  our 
missionaries  go  out  into  the  world  if  they  are  not  perfect,  if  they  are 
not  free  from  sin  and  also  have  need  to  practice  repentance?  Do  our 
missionaries  need  to  repent?  Of  course,  they  do;  so  do  you,  and  so  do 
I,  and  so  does  every  child  of  God.  And  there  is  no  progress  without 
repentance  from  sin,  and  without  faith  in  God.  These  are  matters  for 
daily  practice  in  these  things  that  pertain  to  sanctifying  and  cleansing 
ourselves  from  sin. 

Good?  Who  is  there  that  is  good?  Remember  the  Pharisee  who 
came  to  the  Savior  and  said,  "Good  Master,  what  good  thing  shall  I  do, 
that  I  may  obtain  eternal  life?"  And  the  Savior  turned  around  to  him 
and  said,  "Why  callest  thou  me  good?  There  is  none  good  but  one, 
that  is  God."  That  tells  the  story.  We  are  weak,  mortal,  human  beings, 
but  we  have  received  the  gospel,  that  has  within  it  the  power  of  God  to 
cleanse  us  from  those  sins  and  from  that  weakness.  Why  do  we  go 
out  to  the  world?  Because  we  received  that  gospel,  and  it  is  our  duty 
to  promulgate  it  and  carry  it  to  the  farthest  ends  of  the  earth.  We  have 
advantages  that  the  world  does  not  have.  And  what  are  they?  We 
have  the  help  of  God.  And  how  does  he  help  us?  By  giving  us  the 
Holy  Ghost.  But  he  does  not  give  us  that  holy  Spirit  until  we  have  been 
through  this  cleansing  process,  until  we  have  faith  in  him,  until  we  have 
repented  of  our  sins,  until  our  sins  have  been  remitted  by  our  being 
baptized,  and  buried  with  him  by  baptism  unto  his  death  and  then  come 
forth  in  the  likeness  of  his  glorious  resurrection.  Then  we  are  pre- 
pared to  receive  that  marvelous  gift.  And  that  is  what  we  have  re- 
ceived, and  that  is  the  way  the  Lord  helps  us  to  gain  the  victory  over 
evil — by  his  help,  the  sweet  companionship  of  his  holy  Spirit,  and  every 
man  and  every  woman  who  receives  this  gospel  has  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  It  remains  with  them.  Its  influence  is  felt  wherever  they 
go.  And  those  who  come  in  contact  with  them  feel  in  their  souls  that 
this  is  a  servant  of  God,  or  a  handmaiden  of  God,  sent  to  them  with 
a  message  of  life  and  salvation;  for  they  have  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;  that  is  what  our  elders  go  out  with.    They  go  out  prepared, 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


having  been  endowed  with  power  from  on  high.  They  go  out  pre- 
pared to  bestow  that  gift  upon  their  fellow-men,  that  they  may  have  the 
same  advantages  which  the  Lord  in  his  mercy  and  goodness  has  granted 
unto  us. 

That  is  the  gospel.  Let  us  appreciate  it.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  It  is  working  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Let  us  en- 
deavor to  make  it  work  with  all  the  children  of  God  with  whom  we  can 
possibly  come  in  contact,  for  they  are  all  the  children  of  God,  precious 
souls  in  his  sight.  He  desires  to  save  them.  He  loves  them.  He  so 
loved  them  that  he  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  into  this  world,  that 
they  might  not  perish,  that  those  who  belong  to  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments, obey  his  gospel,  might  obtain  eternal  life. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  bless  us  all ;  may  his  Spirit 
be  our  constant  guide  and  companion ;  may  we  all  grow  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  truth  day  by  day  and  in  good  works,  that  we  may  glorify  our 
Father  in  heaven,  that  those  who  see  us  shall  glorify  him  and  glorify 
his  work,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  'Tnflammatus,"  Mrs.  Jane  Van  Roosendaal  sing- 
ing the  solo  part. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Thomas  Leishman. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  second  day  of  the  conference  opened  Monday  morning  at 
10  o'clock,  April  4,  1927,  with  clear  skies  after  the  rain  of  the  pre- 
ceding day. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  K.  Udall,  presi- 
dent of  the  Arizona  temple. 

A  duet,  "See  the  mighty  angel  flying,"  was  sung  by  J.  A.  Boshard 
and  Bob  Robinson. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  ask  your  support  and  faith  for  me  dur- 
ing the  few  moments  that  I  shall  stand  before  you. 

The  keynote  of  the  conference,  as  it  was  given  by  President  Grant 
yesterday,  and  quite  strongly  supported  by  the  speakers  who  followed — 
his  counselors  and  others  included,  was  the  divine  mission  of  the  Mes- 
siah, and  also  the  divine  appointment  of  Joseph  Smith  to  be  the  restorer 
of  the  gospel. 

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  LORD  JESUS  CHRIST 

If  I  may  have  the  power  of  utterance,  I  would  like  to  dwell  for  a 
few  moments  on  the  mission  of  the  Savior.  We  have  no  authentic  pic- 
ture of  the  Savior,  as  we  have  no  absolutely  authentic  picture  of  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet.  But  we  do  have  a  pen  picture  of  the  Savior  that 
has  behind  it  reasonably  good  authority.  It  was  published  some  years 
ago  in  the  Millennial  Star,  and  subsequently  in  the  Juvenile  Instructor. 
I  am  very  sure  that  Latter-day  Saints,  and  those  who  missed  seeing 
this  description  would  be  very  pleased  to  hear  it  now.  We  must  take 
it  for  what  it  is  worth,  but  I  may  say  that  it  is  a  matter  and  a  descrip- 
tion of  very  peculiar  interest.  It  is  taken  from  a  letter  from  Publius 
Lentulus  to  the  Senate  of  Rome  concerning  Jesus  Christ : 

A  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

"It  being  the  usual  custom  of  Roman  Governors  to  advertize  the  Senate  and 
people  of  such  material  things  as  happened  in  their  respective  provinces,  in  the 
days  of  the  Emperor  Tiberias  Caesar,  Publius  Lentulus,  President  of  Judea, 
wrote  the  following  epistle  to  the  Senate  concerning  the  Savior : 

"Conscript  fathers :  There  has  appeared  in  these  our  days,  a  man  of  great 
virtue,  named  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  yet  living  amongst  us,  and  of  the  people  is 
accepted  for  a  prophet  of  truth,  but  his  disciples  call  him  the  Son  of  God.  He 
raiseth  the  dead  and  cureth  all  manner  of  diseases — a  man  of  stature  somewhat 
tall  and  comely,  with  a  very  reverend  countenance,  such  as  the  beholders  may 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


both  love  and  fear ;  his  hair  of  the  color  of  a  filbert  full  ripe,  and  plain  to  his 
ears,  but  thence  downward  it  is  more  orient,  curling  and  waving  about  his 
shoulders ;  in  the  midst  of  his  head  is  a  wave  or  partition  of  his  hair  after  the 
manner  of  the  Nazarites ;  his  forehead  plain  and  very  delicate;  his  face  without 
spot  or  wrinkle,  beautiful  with  a  lovely  red;  his  nose  and  mouth  so  formed  that 
nothing  can  be  reprehended ;  his  beard  thickish,  in  color  like  the  hair  of  his  head, 
not  very  long  but  forked;  his  look  innocent  and  mature;  his  eyes  grey,  clear  and 
quick;  in  reproving  he  is  terrible;  in  admonishing,  courteous  and  fair  spoken; 
pleasant  in  conversation,  mixed  with  gravity.  It  cannot  be  remembered  that 
any  have  seen  him  laugh,  but  many  have  seen  him  weep.  In  proportion  of  body 
most  excellent;  his  hands  and  arms  most  delectable  to  behold;  in  speaking,  very 
temperate,  modest  and  wise.  A  man  of  singular  beauty,  surpassing  the  children 
of  men." 

isaiah's  prediction  of  the  coming  of  the  lord 

The  coming  of  the  Savior  was  predicted  by  ancient  prophets  who 
looked  forward  to  that  event  with  joy  and  gladness  of  heart.  In  the 
ninth  chapter  of  Isaiah  we  find  these  words : 

"For  unto  us  a  child  is  born,  unto  us  a  son  is  given;  and  the  government 
shall  be  upon  his  shoulder :  and  his  name  shall  be  called  Wonderful,  Counsellor, 
The  mighty  God,  The  everlasting  Father,  The  Prince  of  Peace. 

"Of  the  increase  of  his  government  and  peace  there  shall  be  no  end,  upon  the 
thrcne  of  David,  and  upon  his  kingdom,  to  order  it,  and  to  establish  it  with 
judgment  and  with  justice  from  henceforth  even  forever.  The  zeal  of  the  Lord 
of  hosts  will  perform  this." 

T  certainly  feel,  my  brethren  and  sister.s,  that  these  wonderful 
words  could  not  then,  and  could  not  now,  be  applied  to  any  man  in  the 
flesh  upon  the  earth  except  the  Messiah.  And  I  may  add  that  his  birth 
was  attended  by  a  number  of  extraordinary  incidents,  giving  proof  that 
the  heavens  approved  of  his  coming  and  rejoiced  in  his  advent. 

THE  ANNUNCIATION 

This  very  remarkable  circumstance  occurred  just  prior  to  his 
natal  day : 

"And  in  the  sixth  month  the  angel  Gabriel  was  sent  from  God  unto  a  city 
of  Galilee,  named  Nazareth, 

"To  a  virgin  espoused  to  a  man  whose  name  was  Joseph,  of  the  house  of 
David;  and  the  virgin's  name  was  Mary. 

"And  the  angel  came  in  unto  her,  and  said,  Hail,  thou  that  art  highly  favored, 
the  Lcrd  is  with  thee :  blessed  art  thou  among  women. 

"And  when  she  saw  him,  she  was  troubled  at  his  saying,  and  cast  in  her 
mind  what  manner  of  salutation  this  should  be. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  her,  Fear  not,  Mary :  for  thou  hast  found  favor 
with  God. 

"And,  behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  in  thy  womb,  and  bring  forth  a  son,  and 
shalt  call  his  name  Jesus. 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  the  Highest :  and  the 
Lord  God  shall  give  unto  him  the  throne  of  his  father  David : 

"And  he  shall  reign  over  the  house  of  Jacob  forever;  and  of  his  kingdom 
there  shall  be  no  end. 

"Then  said  Mary  unto  the  angel,  How  shall  this  be,  seeing  I  know  not  a  man  ? 

"And  the  angel  answered  and  said  unto  her,  The  Holy  Ghost  shall  come 
upon  thee,  and  the  power  cf  the  Highest  shall  overshadow  thee  :  therefore  also 
that  holy  thing  which  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  God." 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


79 


THE  BIRTH  OF  CHRIST 

It  was  an  extraordinary  incident.  And  then  again  we  read  in  the 
second  chapter  of  Luke  the  very  interesting  account  of  his  actual  birth : 

"And  so  it  was,  that,  while  they  were  there,  the  days  were  accomplished  that 
she  should  he  delivered. 

"And  she  brought  forth  her  first  born  son,  and  wrapped  him  in  swaddling 
clcthes,  and  laid  him  in  a  manger ;  because  there  was  no  room  for  them  in  the  inn. 

"And  there  were  in  the  same  country  shepherds  abiding  in  the  field,  keeping 
watch  over  their  flocks  by  night. 

"And,  lo,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
shone  round  about  them  :  and  they  were  sore  afraid. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not :  for,  behold,  I  bring  you  good  ti- 
dings of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people. 

"For  unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Savior,  which  is  Christ 
the  Lord. 

"And  this  shall  be  a  sign  unto  you ;  You  shall  find  the  babe  wrapped  in  swad- 
dling clcthes,  lying  in  a  manger. 

"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel,  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly  host 
praising  God,  and  saying, 

"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward  men. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  the  angels  were  gone  away  from  them  into  heaven, 
the  shepherds  said  one  to  another,  Let  us  now  go  even  unto  Bethlehem,  and  see 
this  thing  which  is  come  to  pass,  which  the  Lord  hath  made  known  unto  us. 

"And  they  came  with  haste,  and  found  Mary,  and  Joseph,  and  the  babe  lying 
in  a  manger. 

"And  when  they  had  seen  it,  they  made  known  abroad  the  saying  which  was 
told  them  concerning  this  child. 

"And  all  they  which  heard  it  wondered  at  those  things  which  were  told 
them  by  the  shepherds. 

"But  Mary  kept  all  these  things,  and  pondered  them  in  her  heart. 

"And  the  shepherds  returned,  glorifying  and  praising  God  for  all  the  things 
that  they  had  heard  and  seen,  as  it  was  told  unto  them." 

THE  DOUBTING  OF  THE  JEWS 

Now,  we  see  the  birth  of  the  Savior  was  attended  by  a  number  of 
very  extraordinary  incidents,  but  it  seems  that  his  birth  was  hidden 
from  his  people,  the  Jews,  generally.  And  I  think  it  was  due  to  the  fact 
that  they  were  unbelievers.  They  could  not  bring  themselves  to  ac- 
knowledge that  this  babe  who  was  cradled  in  a  manger  was  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Savior.  It  was  true  they  were  looking  for  him,  but  they  ex- 
pected him  to  come  with  demonstrations  of  power,  as  King  of  kings  and 
Lord  of  lords.  The  great  mistake  that  the  Pharisees,  the  Sadducees 
and  others  made  in  respect  to  this  important  event  was  that  they  had 
their'eyes  upon  the  second  coming  of  the  Savior,  and  therefore  over- 
looked his  first  coming.  It  was  a  sad  mistake  upon  their  part.  I  think 
it  was  rather  fatal  to  their  welfare,  the  lack  of  this  knowledge ;  and 
wherever  there  was  a  lack  of  faith,  the  Savior  could  do  but  very  little. 

JOHN  THE  BAPTIST  EVEN  IN  DOUBT  ( 

Even  John  the  Baptist,  the  forerunner  of  Christ,  was  somewhat  in 
doubt  concerning  him.    We  read  in  Matthew  11:2-4: 

"Now  when  John  had  heard  in  the  prison  the  works  of  Christ,  he  sent  two 
of  his  disciples, 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  he  that  should  come,  or  do  we  look  for  an- 
other ? 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  them,  Go  and  shew  John  again  those  things 
which  ye  do  hear  and  see : 

"The  blind  receive  their  sight,  and  the  lame  walk,  the  lepers  are  cleansed, 
and  the  deaf  hear,  the  dead  are  raised  up,  and  the  poor  have  the  gospel  preached 
to  them." 

CHRIST  ORGANIZED  HIS  CHURCH 

The  particular  attention  that  I  wish  you  to  give  in  respect  to  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Savior  is  this,  that  when  he  entered  upon  his  min- 
istry, which  embraced  but  a  short  period  of  time,  he  organized  his 
church  with  apostles  and  prophets,  pastors  and  teachers,  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders,  with  bishops,  priests,  teachers  and  deacons.  He 
gave  to  the  world  a  complete  plan  of  redemption,  and  in  connection  with 
this  plan  of  redemption  the  Savior  preached  the  gospel,  the  everlasting 
gospel,  which  was  before  and  which  would  be  after,  and  continuous. 
He  said  to  his  apostles  on  one  occasion:  "Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but 
I  have  chosen  you,  and  ordained  you,  that  ye  should  go  and  bring  forth 
fruit."  And  this  utterance  of  the,  Savior  signified,  I  think,  the  author- 
ity by  which  his  apostles  were  called  and  sent  forth,  and  also  indicated 
in  a  way  the  will  of  God,  because  the  Savior  said,  "I  came  not  to  do  mine 
own  will,  but  the  will  of  him  that  sent  me."  And  so  of  course  we 
must  assume  that  it  was  the  will  of  the  Father  that  he  should  organ- 
ize this  church  and  put  into  it  these  various  authorities. 

Christ's  marvelous  doings  created  a  profound  impression 

The  marvelous  work  accomplished  by  the  Savior,  and  his  doings 
and  sayings  made  a  profound  impression  upon  the  world  in  his  day, 
and  upon  the  world  in  our  day.  It  was  the  great  central  theme  that  is 
described  by  the  Bible.  The  prophets  of  old  were  looking  down  to  his 
day,  and  after  his  crucifixion  the  prophets  were  looking  back  to  his 
day.  It  is  said  in  the  scriptures  that  Christ  "went  about  doing  good," 
and  in  reflecting  upon  that  expression  I  have  wondered  in  my  own 
mind  if  a  greater  compliment  or  greater  praise  could  be  given  to  any 
man  than  that  he  went  about  doing  good.  But  mark  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  fact  that  he  did  go  about  doing  good  brought  down  perse- 
cution upon  him.  It  was  not  for  any  evil  thing  that  he  did  that  he  was 
persecuted,  because  he  was  without  sin.  a  righteous  man.  It  was  be- 
cause of  his  righteousness. 

under  the  spirit  of  persecution 

Paul,  the  apostle,  in  one  of  his  epistles  to  Timothy  said :  "Yea, 
and  all  who  live  a  godly  life  in  Christ  Jesus  shall  suffer  persecution." 
And  persecution  began  with  him  very  early  and  continued  throughout 
his  life.   He  said  to  his  disciples  upon  one  occasion : 

"Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  hate  you,  and  when  they  shall  separate  you 
from  their  company,  and  shall  reproach  you,  and  cast  out  your  name  as  evil,  for 
the  Son  of  Man's  sake. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


81 


"Rejoice  ye  in  that  day  and  leap  for  joy:  for,  behold  your  reward  is  great 
in  heaven :  for  in  the  like  manner  did  your  fathers  unto  the  prophets.    *    *  * 

"But  woe  unto  you,  when  all  men  shall  speak  well  of  you!  for  so  did  their 
fathers  to  the  false  prophets." 

Now,  I  apprehend,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  would  be  very 
difficult  for  anyone  of  us  to  rejoice  and  "leap  for  joy"  under  the  spirit 
of  persecution,  and  yet  we  are  enjoined  to  do  that,  and  I  think  if  we 
could  do  it,  it  would  be  a  very  proper  thing,  a  very  fine  thing.  Under 
that  spirit  of  persecution  Jesus  the  Lord  was  finally  brought  before 
Pontius  Pilate  and  under  some  very  extraordinary,  foolish  charges,  he 
was  condemned  to  death.  The  following  is  what  purports  to  be  the 
death  warrant  of  Jesus  Christ ;  if  it  be  true,  and  it  seems  to  be,  you  will 
find  it  very  instructive: 

"THE  DEATH  WARRANT  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

"Sentence  rendered  by  Pontius  Pilate,  Acting  Governor  of  Lower  Galilee, 
that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  shall  suffer  death  on  tne  cross. 

"In  the  year  XVII  of  the  Empire  of  Tiberias  Caesar,  and  the  4th  of  March, 
the  city  of  holy  Jerusalem;  Annas  and  Caiaphas  being  priests,  sacrificers  of  the 
people  of  God.  I,  Pontius  Pilate,  Governor  of  the  Praetory,  condemn  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  to  die  on  the  cross  between  two  thieves — the  great  and  notorious  evi- 
dence of  the  people  saying : 

"1.    He  is  a  seducer. 

"2.    He  is  seditious. 

"3.    He  is  the  enemy  of  the  law." 

And  yet  Christ  said  he  came  not  to  do  away  with  the  law,  nor  to 
condemn  it,  but  to  fulfil  the  law,  because  he  was  the  Lawgiver. 

"4.    He  calls  himself  falsely  the  Son  of  God." 

Is  not  that  an  extraordinary  charge  to  have  been  brought  against 
the  Savior — that  he  called  himself  the  Son  of  God  ?  And  the  very  peo- 
ple who  brought  the  charge  and  prosecuted  him  to  the  bitter  end  were 
also  sons  of  God. 

"5.    He  calls  himself  King  of  Israel." 

Now  mark  the  sixth  charge  brought  against  the  Savior.  You  will 
see  how  extraordinary  it  is : 

"6.  He  entered  into  the  temple  followed  by  a  multitude,  bearing  palm 
branches  in  their  hands. 

"Order  the  centurion,  Quintos  Cornelius,  to  lead  him  to  the  place  of  execu- 
tion.   Forbid  any  person  whomsoever,  poor  or  rich,  to  oppose  the  death  of  Jesus. 

"Witnesses  : 

"Daniel  Robani, 

"(A  Pharisee) 
"Janus  Zorobabel 
"  Capet, 

"(A  citizen)." 

Jesus  shall  go  out  of  the  city  by  the  gate  Strenuous.   Here  is  a  note : 

"The  above  sentences  are  engraved  on  a  copper  plate,  which  was  found  in 
an  antique  vase  of  white  marble,  while  excavating  in  the  city  of  Aquilla,  in  the 
kingdom  of  Naples,  in  the  year  1825.    It  was  discovered  by  the  Commission  of 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Arts,  attached  to  the  French  Armies.  At  the  evacuation  of  Naples  it  was  found 
enclosed  in  a  box  of  ebony*  in  the  sacristy  of  Courtem.  Mr.  Dennon,  of  tte  Com- 
mission of  Arts,  caused  a  model  to  be  made  of  the  plate.  At  the  sale"of  his 
curiosities  it  was  bought  by  Lord  Howard  for  5,844  francs  (f243,  10s).— 
Ccurricr  drs  EtatS  Unis.'' 

THE  APOSTLES  ALSO  SUFFERED  PERSECUTION 

1  might  say  in  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  apos- 
tles of  the  Savior  suffered  also  most  seriously  from  the  spirit  of  perse- 
cution.  All  of  the  apostles,  as  I  remember  it,  except  one,  gave  their  lives 
for  the  testimony  of  Jesus.  John  only  escaped  because  of  the  promise  of 
the  Master,  who  said  that  he  should  live  until  Christ's  second  coming. 

I  am  sure  a  contemplation  of  these  things  will  be  very  profitable  to 
us.    The  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  feel  very  humble  this  morning,  and  my  soul  is  filled  with  grati- 
tude to  our  heavenly  Father  for  membership  in  this  Church.  Of  all  the 
blessings  that  have  come  to  me  in  life  the  most  precious  is  the  knowl- 
edge that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  his  work,  because  that  comprehends 
all  other  blessings  that  I  may  hope  to  enjoy  in  this  life  or  in  the  life  that 
is  to  come. 

THE  WEATHER  FIFTY-SEVEN  YEARS  AGO 

Fifty-seven  years  ago  today,  I  am  informed  by  good  authority — 
the  testimony  of  my  mother — there  were  two  feet  of  snow  on  the 
ground  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  And  when  I  contrast  this  beautiful 
morning — the  sun  shining,  birds  singing  and  flowers  in  bloom — I  have 
an  impression  that  there  is  quite  a  difference  in  the  climatic  conditions. 
And  I  also  have  reason  to  believe  that  there  is  a  very  great  difference 
in  the  general  condition  of  our  country  and  the  circumstances  sur- 
rounding the  membership  of  this  Church,  since  April  4,  fifty-seven 
years  ago. 

MANY  CHANGES  IN  OUR  LIVES 

It  is  peculiar  how  many  things  transpire  in  our  lives  in  a  short 
period  of  time.  If  you  men  and  women  who  are  here  who  have  passed 
fifty  years  of  age  will  review  and  consider  how  many  remarkable  cir- 
cumstances have  transpired,  how  many  inventions  and  discoveries  have 
been  recorded,  within  your  memory,  you  will  realize  that  we  are  mov- 
ing at  a  very  rapid  pace. 

THE  GOSPEL  WILL  BE  PROCLAIMED  IN  POWER 

The  Lord  revealed  to  one  of  his  prophets  that  at  the  coming  forth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  he  would  commence  his  work  among  the  na- 
tions for  the  restoration  of  his  people.  When  we  realize  with  what 
speed  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  may  be  disseminated  now  as  compared 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


83 


with  the  year  1830,  we  can  see  that  the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  and  the 
opportunity  to  know  is  offered  to  men.  It  will  not  be  long  now,  until 
in  every  part  of  this  world  the  gospel  may  be  heard  through  the  servants 
of  the  Lord  proclaiming  it  in  power.  Our  heavenly  Father  will  adjust 
conditions  in  the  world  so  that  the  gospel  may  be  preached.  The  great 
World  War  has  readjusted  the  boundary  lines  and  changed  conditions 
in  some  nations,  and  the  conflict  that  is  now  on  in  China,  and  the  earth- 
quakes and  other  disturbances  that  are  afflicting  mankind,  will  be  in 
preparation  of  the  further  promulgation  of  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

MISSION  OF  THE  MEN  WHO  BEAR  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

Your  mission  is  a  very  remarkable  one,  you  men  who  bear  the 
Priesthood.  LTpon  you  has  been  conferred  divine  authority.  You  did 
not  obtain  your  right  to  preach  and  teach  the  gospel  and  officiate  in  its 
ordinances  as  a  result  of  training  in  a  college  or  university.  You  re- 
ceived your  authority  from  men  divinely  commissioned  to  act  as  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  and  it  was  conferred  upon  you  by  those  who  re- 
ceived it  direct  from  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  MISSION 

Joseph  Smith  was  only  a  boy  when  the  hands  of  Peter,  James  and 
John  were  laid  upon  his  head  and  he  was  ordained  to  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood, — he  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  A  little  later  Joseph  Smith  was 
directed  to  organize  a  Church.  He  was  only  a  young  man,  but  he  or- 
ganized it  under  the  direction  of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  And  it  is 
patterned  after  the  Church  which  was  organized  by  the  Savior  when 
he  was  upon  the  earth.  I  have  no  doubt  there  were  many  who  looked 
upon  this  young  man  as  an  upstart,  and  thought  it  was  ridiculous  that 
one  who  had  not  been  educated  to  become  a  leader  should  presume  to 
lead.  But  he  was  like  the  other  servants  of  our  heavenly  Father  who 
have  lived  upon  the  earth,  who  have  been  called  by  the  Lord  to  perform 
a  special  labor,  and  the  lack  of  knowledge  pertaining  to  the  things  of 
this  world  did  not  preclude  the  possibility  of  the  Lord's  giving  unto  him 
information  that  made  him  equal  and  even  superior  in  many  respects 
to  those  who  had  possessed  great  earthly  opportunities  that  were  de- 
nied him. 

It  has  always  been  a  source  of  satisfaction  to  me  that  this  youth 
possessed  such  a  character  that  his  father  and  his  mother,  his  brothers 
and  sisters,  yes,  and  his  uncles  and  aunts,  who  were  much  older  than 
he  was,  were  impressed  with  his  testimony  and  were  glad,  notwithstand- 
ing it  was  unpopular  so  to  do,  to  ally  themselves  with  him  and  his 
teachings. 

TESTIMONY  OF  PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH 

I  have  here  a  document  that  was  printed  in  the  Deseret  News,  in 
the  year  IS'51.  It  is  a  statement  of  an  uncle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  there  are  a  few  things  in  it  that  I  think  may  be  interesting 
to  you.    It  indicates  the  faith  of  this  good  man,  who,  by  the  way,  was 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  first  stake  president  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  I  refer  to  John  Smith. 
He  became  Patriarch  of  the  Church.  He  was  an  uncle  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  was  born  in  1781.  This  is  his  statement.  I  will 
read  only  a  portion,  because  it  is  somewhat  lengthy : 

"It  is  now  upwards  of  twenty-one  years  since  the  organization  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  six  members,  most  of  whom  are 
numbered  with  the  dead." 

Before  proceeding  1  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
this  was  written  not  long  before  the  death  of  this  good  man. 

"Soon  after  its  organization  I  heard  the  gospel  through  my  nephew,  Joseph 
Smith,  Jr.,  and  obeyed  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  by  entering  in  at  the 
door,  which  is  baptism. 

"If  the  Presidency  and  Twelve  who  are  now  living  had  not  been  servants  to 
the  cause  when  Joseph  lived,  they  would  not  have  been  worthy  to  fill  the  ex- 
alted stations  which  they  now  occupy ;  and  always  remember  'That  he  who  is 
the  greatest  among  you  must  be  the  servant  of  all.' 

"Bring  up  your  children  in  the  way  they  should  go,  that  they  may  be  orna- 
ments to  the  society  and  a  blessing  unto  you  in  your  old  age;  and  remember 
that  God  will  not  hold  you  guiltless  if  you  should  neglect  to  attend  to  this  mat- 
ter. Remember  also  to  teach  them  to  pray;  and  cause  your  sons  to  take  part  in 
the  family  prayer;  and  beware  what  company  they  keep,  for  'evil  communi- 
cations corrupt  good  manners.' 

"Let  not  your  daughters  mix  with  the  sons  of  the  stranger  whom  you  know 
nothing  about,  and  who  are  not  of  the  house  of  Israel;  but  gather  your  children 
together,  and  teach  them  the  principles  of  truth  and  righteousness,  and  teach 
them  to  obey  the  laws  of  God,  and  the  day  will  come  that  they  will  arise  and 
bless  you. 

"Teach  unto  them  every  truth  which  God  has  revealed.  Instill  into  their 
young  minds  every  principle  that  will  make  them  a  noble  race,  and  remove  from 
their  paths  everything  that  is  contrary  to  God  and  his  commandments.  *  *  * 
You  will  then  have  a  race  of  children  who  will  rise  in  the  midst  of  Israel,  and 
will  break  the  shackles  of  superstition,  and  be  fit  beings  to  carry  on  the  work 
which  their  fathers  commenced;  and  the  Spirit  of  God  will  assist  you  in  doing 
these  things,  provided  you  put  forth  all  your  energies  with  your  might.    *    *  * 

"Let  every  elder  of  Israel  put  on  'the  garments  of  righteousness,  teaching 
by  precept  and  example  the  true  principles  which  exalt  the  mind,  expand  the 
understanding,  and  make  man  a  fit  companion  for  his  Creator.  Never  dishonor 
the  high  and  holy  calling  which  has  been  placed  upon  him  by  teaching  and  suf- 
fering to  be  taught  in  his  home  or  anywhere  that  he  has  influence  or  power  to 
control,  doctrines  that  are  not  of  God.    *    *  * 

"I  must  conclude,  for  I  feel  the  infirmities  of  age  creeping  on,  and  knowing 
not  when  the  Lord  shall  require  me  hence,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  of 
adding  my  mite  to  the  testimonies  of  the  thousands  who  are  scattered  through- 
out the  globe,  and  of  those  who  are  gdne  beyond  the  veil,  and  who  sealed  theirs 
with  their  blood.  *  . 

r  J'1?  Ki,rt!.an<J;  0hio-  four  brothers  sat  in  the  patriarchal  seat  in  the  temple 
of  God,  and  I  only  of  that  number  am  left  to  tell  the  tale ;  and  as  I  am  now  past 
the  time  allotted  to  man  to  live,  it  is  reasonable  that  I  also  will  be  gathered  unto 
my  fathers  in  the  time  appoi-nted  of  God. 

"I  therefore  bear  my  testimony,  which  I  wish  translated  into  every  language 
and  read  to  every  Saint,  and  printed  wherever  the  type  is  used;  that  the  world 
may  see  and  hear  what  I  have  to  say;  for  if  I  were  young  I  would  visit  them, 
when  they  should  hear  from  my  hps  that  God  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens  • 
that  he  has  again  condescended  to  send  his  angels  to  visit  fallen  man,  and  point 
out  the  way  whereby  he  can  be  saved.  He  appointed  Joseph  Smith  a  prophet 
and  revealed  unto  him  his  commandments. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


85 


"l  testify  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet,  Seer,  Revelator,  and  a  man  of 
God;  and  what  was  revealed  through  him  will  prove  life  and  salvation  to  those 
who  believe  and  obey,  or  death  and  condemnation  to  all  who  count  it  as  naught, 
and  harden  their  hearts  against  the  truths  he  preached  and  practiced.  I  knew 
him — " 

I  want  to  impress  this  paragraph  upon  your  minds : 

"1  knew  him  when  at  his  mother's  breast,  I  watched  and  counselled  his 
youth,  but  when  God  spoke  and  taught  him,  I  bowed  to  his  superior  knowledge, 
and  although  he  was  a  boy  and  I  an  old  man,  and  his  Uncle,  yet  I  was  not 
ashamed  to  learn  true  principles  from  him,  and  like  Paul  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel, 
drank  in  the  truths  which  flowed  frcm  the  prophet's  lips. 

'*[  was  in  jail  with  him  and  his  brother  Hyrum  a  few  hours  before  they 
were  killed,  and  I  can  testify  before  God,  that  they  died  innocent  of  any  crime, 
and  that  they  sealed  their  testimony  with  their  blood. 

"I  testify  to  all  men,  that  I  know  that  the  angel  has  appeared  which  John 
the  Revelator  saw,  who  had  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue  and  people,  saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and  giye  glory 
to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come. 

''And  I  call  on  all  men,  priests  and  people,  kings,  potentates  and  rulers,  to 
cease  their  strife,  come  and  obey  the  gospel,  gather  with  Israel,  obey  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  that  you  a'nd  your  dead  may  be  saved  and  brought  up  in  the 
first  resurrection. 

"1  say  to  the  Saints  that  by  the  power  of  the  holy  priesthood  vested  in  me, 
as  Patriarch,  I  bless  you,  and  I  say  unto  you,  Be  faithful  and  you  shall  be  blessed 
in  your  basket  and  your  store ;  you  shall  have  all  blessings  which  were  promised 
to  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob;  and  the  Lord  will  preserve  you  as  in  the  hollow 
of  his  halnd,  and  no  power  shall  stay  the  work,  for  everything  that  shall  be 
brought  against  it  will  fail.    *    *  *" 

He  concludes  by  signing  himself  "Jotm  Smith,  Patriarch  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

I  read  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  purpose  of  calling  at- 
tention to  the  fact  that  that  was  the  class  of  people  from  whom  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  sprang.  Men  and  women  who  had  faith  in  God, 
who  were  readers  of  the  scriptures,  who  believed  in  the  power  of  God, 
and  who,  where  it  would  be  natural  for  them,  because  of  their  age,  to 
direct  the  youth  of  their  own  household,  were  humble  in  their  souls,  and 
prepared  to  bow  to  the  superior  wisdom,  not  of  the  boy,  but  of  our 
heavenly  Father  who  inspired  him. 

It  is  a  beautiful  testimony  to  me  because  in  the  evening  of  his  life, 
when  he  was  all  ready  to  pass  to  the  great  beyond,  he  wanted  to  leave 
that  testimony  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  much  more  in  the 
document,  but  I  do  not  feel  like  I  ought  to  take  the  time  to  read  it. 

TESTIMONY  OF  PRESIDENT  GEORGE  A.  SMITH 

I  have  another  short  document  which  is  from  his  son,  and  I  shall 
read  a  short  paragraph  from  it,  which  has  a  bearing  also  upon  some- 
thing which  you  may  be  glad  to  know.  This  is  from  the  historical  dis- 
courses of  President  George  A.  Smith,  a  counselor  to  Brigham  Young, 
reported  by  David  W.  Evans,  in  the  year  1869 : 

"We  look  around  today  and  behold  our  city  clothed  with  verdure,  beautiful 
with  trees  and  flowers  and  with  streams  of  water  running  in  almost  every  direc- 
tion, and  the  question  is  frequently  asked.  'How  did  you  ever  find  this  place?' 


86 


( /  / l NERAL  CONFEREN CE 


I  answer,  We  were  led  to  it  by  the  inspiration  of  God.  After  the  death  of  Joseph 
Smith,  when  it  seemed  that  every  trouble  and  calamity  had  come  upon  the  Saints, 
Brigham  Young,  who  was  President  of  the  Twelve,  then  the  presiding  quorum 
of  the  Church,  sought  the  Lord  to  know  what  they  should  do  and  where  they 
should  lead  the  people  for  safety.  While  they  were  fasting  and  praying  daily 
on  this  subject,  President  Young  had  a  vision  of  Joseph  Smith,  who  showed  him 
the  mountain  we  now  call  Ensign  Peak,  immediately  north  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  an  ensign  fell  upon  that  peak,  and  Joseph  said,  'Build  under  the  point  where 
the  colors  fall,  and  you  will  prosper  and  have  peace.'  The  Pioneers  had  no  pilot 
or  guide,  none  of  them  had  ever  been  in  the  country  or  knew  anything  abput  it. 
However,  they  traveled  under  the  direction  of  President  Young  until  they  reached 
this  valley.  When  they  entered  it  President  Young  pointed  to  that  peak,  and  said, 
T  want  to  go  there.'  He  went  up  to  the  point  and  said,  'This  is  Ensign  Peak. 
Now,  brethren,  organize  your  exploring  parties,  so  as  to  be  safe  from  Indians ; 
go  and  explore  where  you  will,  and  you  will  come  back  every  time  and  say,  This 
is  the  best  place.'  They  accordingly  started  out  exploring  parties,  and  visited 
what  we  now  call  Cache,  Malad,  Tooele  and  Utah  valleys,  and  other  parts  of 
the  country  in  various  directions,  but  all  came  back  and  declared  this  was  the 
best  spot." 

THE  FAITH  OF  ASAEL  SMITH  AND  DESCENDANTS 

Asael  Smith  believed  in  this  latter-day  gospel.  He  was  the  father 
of  John  Smith,  the  first  man  to  whom  I  referred,  who  was  the  father 
of  George  A.  Smith,  who  was  the  father  of  John  Henry  Smith,  who 
was  my  father,  and  I  have  a  son  in  Germany  preaching  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ— the  sixth  generation  in  the  Church  in  our  line,  doing  his 
mite  as  each  of  these  individuals  has  done  in  this  one  family.  And 
then  we  have  many  other  families  of  that  early  day  represented  in  the 
mission  field.  Some  of  the  men  upon  this  stand  are  descendants  of 
those  who  were  in  the  Church  in  an  early  day. 

MEN  OF  STRONG  CHARACTER  HAVE  PROCLAIMED  THE  GOSPEL 

There  are  throughout  the  organized  stakes  of  Zion,  men  of  strong 
character,  men  who  think  and  reason  for  themselves,  men  who  have 
tested  the  value  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  by  observing  its  teach- 
ings, men  who  have  not  been  afraid  to  go  into  the  world  and  proclaim 
an  unpopular  doctrine,  men  who  have  been  willing  to  offer  t'heir  lives 
in  order  that  the  gospel  might  be  proclaimed.  It  is  to  humble  men  like 
these  who  do  not  exalt  themselves  in  the  eyes  of  their  fellows,  who 
believe  in  the  divine  mission  of  our  Savior,  who  know  as  they  know 
they  live  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  revealed  himself  in  this  latter 
day,  that  our  Lord  has  given  a  living  testimony  of  the  truth.  This 
great  Church  has  been  presided  over  by  men  who  have  been  specially 
prepared,  specially  taught,  specially  equipped  for  that  high  honor  that 
has  been  conferred  upon  each  as  he  has  taken  his  place.  Our  heavenly 
Father  in  his  wisdom  has  surrounded  these  leaders  of  Israel  with  oth- 
ers who  like  themselves  have  faith  and  who  do  not  bow  to  the  individ- 
ual, because  of  his  personality  or  individuality  as  president  of  the 
Church,  but  who  recognize  him  as  the  mouthpiece  of  our  heavenly 
Father  and  sustain  him  and  uphold  him  and  pray  for  him,  and  love  him, 
in  order  that  they,  too,  may  receive  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father! 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


87 


There  is  no  other  organization  like  this  in  the  world.  There  are 
no  other  people  led  as  this  people  are  led.  It  is  truly  said  that  those  who 
preside  are  just  men.  It  is  through  them  that  our  heavenly  Father  will 
perform  his  work.  It  is  through  them  that  the  gospel  must  be  taught, 
and  I  call  your  attention  to  this  fact :  Not  one  of  these  men  who  have 
presided  over  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  but  has 
been  willing"  to  give  his  life  for  it  if  need  be.  The  first  one  did  give  his 
life,  and  the  others  have  been  just  as  willing,  if  .need  be,  in  order  that 
the  work  of  our  heavenly  Father  may  be  perpetuated,  and  that  all  men 
might  be  called  to  repentance.  The  man  who  presides  over  us  today  is 
not  presiding  because  of  his  own  native  ability.  He  is  not  presiding 
because  he  is  the  son  of  some  great  potentate,  but  he  is  in  the  position 
he  occupies  because  our  Father  in  heaven  knows  the  integrity  of  his 
soul.  Realizing  the  determination  he  would  have  to  carry  this  message 
to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  he  prepared  him  for  the  high  calling  that 
has  been  conferred  upon  him.  Fie  presides  as  the  representative  of 
i   our  heavenly  Father. 

LET  US  TEACH  OUR  CHILDREN  THE  GOSPEL  IN  THE  HOME 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  remember  the  teachings  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  The  good  man  to  whom  I  have  referred,  and  whose 
instructions  I  read,  who  was  one  of  the  early  patriarchs  of  the  Church, 
advised  us  to  teach  our  children.  If  there  is  anything  needed  among 
the  people  today  more  than  another,  it  seems  to  me  it  is  that  we  shall 
honor  Home  Evening,  as  it  was  recommended  to  us  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith ;  that  we  shall  meet  with  our  children  around  our  own  fire- 
places and  teach  them  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  And  if  we  will  do  that,  we  have  been  promised  that 
the  Lord  will  add  his  blessing. 

TESTIMONY 

Fifty-seven  years  ago  today  I  first  saw  the  light,  not  very  far 
from  where  I  now  stand.  It  has  been  fifty-seven  years  of  experience, 
with  some  privations,  some  difficulties,  some  anxieties,  and  much  hap- 
piness. In  your  presence  I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  oppor- 
tunity that  has  come  to  me.  I  am  grateful  to  have  the  companionship 
of  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  this  wonderful  organization,  and  there 
has  not  been  a  day  since  I  arrived  at  the  age  of  accountability ;  there 
has  not  been  a  moment  of  time  since  I  had  the  power  to  reason  and 
think  and  understand  for  myself  that  I  have  not  known  as  I  know  that 
I  live  that  this  is  my  Father's  work.  God  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  the 
splendid  privileges  that  are  ours.  Help' us  to  be  worthy  of  him  who 
gave  us  {life  and  being  and  honored  us  with  his  holy  Priesthood  ;  and 
in  kindness  and  love  let  us  reach  after  those  who  do  not  understand, 
drawing  them  by  cords  of  kindness  and  love,  that  they,  too,  may  par- 
take with  us  of  this  blessing  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation 
to  all  those  who  will  believe  and  obey. 

That  the  Lord  may  give  us  this  power,  and  that  we  may  pass  it  on 


88 


G  F.N  URAL  CONFERENCE 


to  our  children  and  our  children's  children  to  the  latest  generation,  that 
in  his  own  due  time,  when  he  shall  gather  his  jewels,  we,  who  have  had 
this  great  opportunity,  may  find  our  names  enrolled  in  the  Lamb's  book 
of  life,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Notwithstanding  I  was  born  in  the  Church  and  have  passed  my 
sixty-sixth  birthday,  I  feel  but  a  mere  child  in  this  great  latter-day  work. 
In  speaking  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  afternoon,  I  will  call 
your  attention  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  his  servant,  Moses,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Book  of  Moses,  first  chapter  and 
thirty-ninth  verse:  .  - 

THE  WORK  AND  THE  GLORY  OF  THE  LORD 

"Behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory— to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  * 
eternal  life  of  man." 

I  conclude  from  these  words  that  with  the  Lord  the  salvation  of 
man  was  the  end  he  had  in  view,  and  that  all  other  works  of  his  are  but 
a  means  to  that  end.  In  these  last  days,  after  a  period  of  spiritual  dark- 
ness has  been  over  the  earth  and  the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  for  centuries,  our  Father  has  restored  anew  the  gospel, 
established  his  Church,  and  restored  the  holy  Priesthood,  having  the 
same  end  in  view. 

THE  GOSPEL  TO  BE  TAUGHT 

The  gospel  is  the  law  of  the  Lord  by  which  all  men  are  to  be  judged 
and  to  be  condemned  or  justified  according  to  merits,  therefore  justice 
demands  that  the  gospel  be  taught  unto  all  men.  The  Lord  has  most 
graciously  provided  that  this  shall  be  done,  that  those  who  do  not  have 
the  opportunity  of  hearing  the  gospel  in  the  flesh  shall  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  hearing  it  in  the  hereafter,  and  that  those  who  have  not  the 
opportunity  of  receiving  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel  in  life  may 
have  the  work  done  for  them  vicariously  by  their  kindred  who  come 
after  them.  This  principle  of  the  living  working  for  the  dead,  and  of 
the  dead  looking  to  the  living  to  do  the  necessary  work  for  them,  is  what 
is  called  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and 
the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  it  has  the  same  end  in  view, 
that  of  the  salvation  |of  men. 

I  think  the  President  of  this  Church  has  the  same  motive  concern- 
ing the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  children  of  men  generally  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  has,  and  that  is  to  bring  about,  by  the  means  at  his 

command, — the  organizations,  institutions  and  workers  in  this  Church,  

the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  It  would  please  the  President  of 
this  Church  more  than  anything  else  if  we  who  are  members  of  the 
Church  would  be  true  and  faithful  to  our  covenants  and  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


89 


FAITH  THE  MOVING  CAUSE 

If  we  had  sufficient  faith,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  sure  that 
there  would  be  no  doubt  in  regard  to  our  salvation.  Faith  is  the  mov- 
ing cause  of  all  action.  It  is  the  foundation  of  all  righteousness,  and 
righteousness  is  the  thing  that  is  going  to  save  men  and  women  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  One  of  the  purposes  of  our  meeting  together  in  these 
conferences  is  that  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  be  more  firmly 
established',  that  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  is 
always  present  in  these  conference  meetings,  and  the  instructions  that 
are  given,  we  may  be  reminded  of  our  first  love,  of  this  the  gospel  of 
our  Redeemer ;  that  we  may  be  reminded  of  the  manner  of  men  and 
women  we  should  be.  The  very  elect  of  mankind  have  been  chosen 
out  of  the  world,  and  very  few  indeed,  in  the  language  of  the  scripture 
— one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family — to  carry  on  the  work  of  our  Father, 

looking  to  the  saving  of  his  children. 

/ 

TESTIMONIES  HAVE  STRENGTHENED  FAITH 

Those  who  were  present  yesterday  morning  at  the  opening  meet- 
ing of  this  conference  and  heard  the  remarks  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant' must  have  been  deeply  impressed,  as  I  was,  with  the  strength  of 
character  and  of  testimony  of  this  our  beloved  President.  Many  evi- 
dences were  brought  forth  proving  the  truth  of  this  work,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God;  and  a  powerful  testimony 
was  borne  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  and 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  The  testimonies  of  others  of  the  brethren  have 
been  in  accord,  all  calculated  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  to  convince  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church.  We, 
each  and  all  of  us,  ought  to  feel  as  our  Father  in  heaven  feels  in  re- 
gard to  man's  salvation,  and  that  so  far  as  we  have  the  power  we  should 
endeavor  to  lead  men  and  women  with  whom  we  may  be  associated  to 
an  investigation  of  the  truth,  and  possibly  through  the  blessing  of  the 
Lord  to  membership  in  his  Church,  and  finally  to  salvation. 

FURTHER  CONCERNING  TESTIMONY. 

I  realize  that  some  are  less  credulous  than  others.  The  evidences 
presented  which  have  convinced  us  beyond  question  or  doubt  seem  to 
be  insufficient  for  the  converting  of  many  of  our  Father's  children. 
For  this,  of  course,  we  are  sorry. 

Nature's  testimony  of  God  is  incontrovertible.  Men  may  question 
the  authenticity  and  the  truth  of  the  scriptures,  perhaps,  but  the  evidence 
of  nature  is  incontrovertible.  The  Apostle  Paul  in  reasoning  with  the 
Romans  used  this  expression : 

"For  the  invisible  things  of  God  from  the  creation  of  the  world  are  clearly 
seen,  being  understood  by  the  things  that  are  made,  even  his  eternal  power  and 
Godhead  ;  so  that  they  are  left  without  excuse." 

Men  are  known  by  their  works.  A  prophet  is  known  by  his  works. 
The  tree  that  bringeth  forth  fruit  is  judged  by  the  fruit.    The  things 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

which  God  uur  Father  has  created,  all  that  we  see  in  nature,  are  his 
handiwork  and  testify  of  his  existence,  of  his  power,  and  of  his  love. 
Hence  we  sing  that  beautiful  hymn:  , 

"Earth,  with  her  ten  thousand  flowers, 
Air,  with  all  its  beams  and  showers, 
Heaven's  infinite  expanse, 
Sea's  resplendent  countenance — 
All  around,  and  all  above 
Bear  this  record,  God  is  Love." 

There  are  other  evidences.  The  Savior  said  to  one  of  his  apostles, 
St.  John,  20th  chapter: 

"Thomas,  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed;  blessed  are  they 
that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed." 

The  Lord  expects  men  and  women  to  receive  the  testimony  of  those 
who  have  seen  : 

"And  many  other  signs  truly  did  Jesus  in  the  presence  of  his  disciples,  which 
are  not  written  in  this  book ; 

"But  these  are  written  that  ye  might  believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  might  have  life  through  his  name." 

The  scriptures  tell  us  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any 
private  interpretation,  "for  prophecy  came  not  in  olden  times  by  the  will 
of  men,  but  holy  men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Ghost."  The  scriptures,  then,  are  the  product  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  they  are  written  that  they  might  testify  of  him.  And  they  have  so 
thoroughly  testified  of  him  that  men  believing  on  him,  by  reason  of  the 
testimony  of  these  scriptures,  have  reasoned  out  also  a  philosophy,  that 
God,  who  is  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  a  personal,  immortal  and 
glorified  being. 

Let  me  read  to  you  of  Henry  Ward  Beecher's  conclusions,  drawn 
from  the  scriptures.    He  says  : 

"I  am  compelled  to  say  that  1  must  form  an  ideal  of  God  through  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ.  Christ  is  indispensable  to  me.  My  nature  needs  to  fashion  the 
thought  of  God,  though  I  know  him  to  be  a  spirit,  into  something  that  shall 
nearly  or  remotely  represent  that  which  1  know.  1  hold  before  my  eyes  there- 
fore a  glorified  form.  But  after  all  the  glory,  whatever  may  be  the  nimbus  and 
the  effulgence  round  about  it,  it  is  to  me  a  glorified  form  of  a  glorified  man, 
and  I  therefore  fashion  to  myself  out  of  the  spirit,  that  which  has  to  me  as  it 
were  a  divine  presence  and  a  divine  being ;  namely,  a  divine  man."  ■ 

Why  cannot  other  intelligent  men  and  women  reach  the  same  con- 
clusion from  these  same  scriptures?  It  seems  to  require  more  evidence 
to  convince  some  than  others.  To  me  these  are  convincing  evidences, 
and  the  fact  that  we  teach  truly  scriptural  doctrine  is  one  of  the  strong 
evidences  of  the  truth  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

THE  LORD  HAS  RAISED  UP  WITNESSES  TO  TESTIFY 

Now  again  the  Lord  has  raised  up  witnesses  who  are  to  testify, 
and  the  people  who  hear  them  are  supposed  to  believe,  and  if  they  do 
not  believe  they  will  be  left  without  excuse. 


ELDER  GEORGE  E.  RICHARDS 


91 


I  will  read  from  the  first  chapter  and  eighth  verse  of  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles : 

"But  ye  shall  receive  power,  after  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon  you; 
and  ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judea,  and  it* 
Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth." 

That  is  the  kind  of  witnesses  the  apostles  of  the  Lord  were  to  be 
in  his  day,  and  in  this  day  he  has  also  special  witnesses,  and  the  people 
are  expected  to  hear  their  testimony. 

You  remember  the  parable  given  by  the  Savior,  of  the  rich  man 
and  the  poor  man,  how  that  the  rich  man  found  himself  in  torment  after 
life,  because  of  his  neglect  to  do  the  things  he  knew  he  should  have  done, 
and  when  he  appealed  to  Father  Abraham  to  send  someone  from  the 
dead  down  to  earth  to  visit  his  five  brothers  and  warn  them  that  they 
might  not  come  to  that  place  and  condition  of  torment,  the  answer  was, 
"They  have  Moses  and  the  prophets.  Let  them  hear  them.  And  if 
they  hear  not  Moses  and  the  prophets,  neither  would  they  be  persuaded 
though  one  were  sent  from  the  dead."  * 

THEIR  TESTIMONIES  WILL  STAND  AGAINST  THE  WORLD 

These  testimonies  borne  by  the  servants  of  God  in  this  day  will 
stand  against  the  world.  Men  of  the  world  need  a  tutor,  a  Phillip,  to 
explain  the  scriptures  to  them  so  that  they  may  understand  them. 

MONUMENT  TO  THE  THREE  WITNESSES  AND  THEIR  TESTIMONY 

Last  Saturday  we  unveiled  a  beautiful  monument  here  to  the  mem- 
ory of  Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer  and  Martin  Harris,  the  Three 
Witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  who  testified  that  an  angel  of  God 
came  down  from  heaven  and  brought  and  laid  before  their  eyes,  that 
they  beheld  and  saw,  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  through  Joseph  Smith;  that 
they  heard  a  voice  from  heaven  saying  that  the  plates  had  been  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  and  that  voice  commanded  them  to 
bear  record  to  the  world,  and  they  gave  their  record  and  testimony  to 
the  world. 

Another  testimony,  that  of  eight  reputable  men,  who  declared  that 
Joseph  Smith,  having  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated  in  his  possession,  showed  the  plates  to  them  and  that  as  many 
of  the  leaves  as  he  had  translated  they  did  handle  with  their  hands  and 
they  saw  the  engravings  which  were  upon  the  plates,  and  declared  that 
they  had  the  appearance  of  ancient  work  and  of  curious  workmanship. 

BOOK. OF  MORMON  TESTIFIES  OF  THE  WITNESSES 

I  shall  read  to  you  what  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  telling  of 
these  witnesses  who  should  be  raised  up,  long  centuries  yet  to  come,  after 
this  prediction.    It  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Ether  5  :3,  4: 

"And  unto  three  shall  they  be  shown  by  the  power  of  God;  wherefore  they 
shall  know  of  a  surety  that  these  things  are  true. 

"And  in  the  mouth  of  three  witnesses  shall  these  things  be  established  ;  and 


<>2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  testimony  of  three,  and  this  work,  in  the  which  shall  be  shown  forth  the 
power  of  God  and  also  his  word,  cf  which  the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost  bear  record — and  all  this  shall  stand  as  a  testimony  against  the 
world  at  the  last  day." 

Why?  Because  men  and  women  learning  of  these  things  are  sup- 
posed to  accept  the  testimony  of  these  witnesses. 

The  testimony  of  all  these  witnesses  is  a  direct  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  declare  that  it  contains  the  fulness 
of  the  everlasting  gospel  as  restored  through  an  angel,  as  the  plates 
from  which  this  book  was  translated  were  given  to  Joseph  by  an  angel. 
And  thus  the  vision  of  John  the  Revelator  on  Patmos  was  fulfilled, 
when  he  saw  that  an  angel  should  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven  having  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  etc. 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH  SMITH 

Those  witnesses  and  their  testimony,  to  me  (perhaps  I  am  more 
credulous  than  some),  is  an  equally  strong  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith, 
who  translated  from  those  plates  the  Book  of  Mormon,  is  a  true  prophet 
of  God ;  and,  being  a  true  prophet  of  God,  his  story  of  his  first  expe- 
rience when  he  went  into  the  woods  to  pray,  and  in  answer  to  his  prayer 
the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him,  must  have  been  true.  For, 
had  it  been  false,  he  would  have  been  a  great  imposter,  and  God  never 
would  have  used  an  imposter  in  bringing  to  light  this  truth,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  So  that  these  testi- 
monies are  to  me  just  as  strong  evidence  that  Joseph  Smith's  story  of 
the  visitation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  is  true,  and  that  means  that 
God  the  eternal  Father  is  a  personage  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones 
and  spirit,  a  glorified  immortal  being,  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  like 
the  Father.  To  me  it  is,  also  satisfactory  evidence  that  what  the  Lord 
told  Joseph  Smith,  as  Joseph  explains  it  to  us,  is  true  in  regard  to  a 
universal  apostasy,  and  the  intention  of  the  Lord  to  restore  his  gospel 
and  his  Church  in  the  near  future.  The  visitation  of  the  angel  Moroni 
to  Joseph  is  an  established  fact  by  these  witnesses,  by  their  testimony, 
also  the  visitation  of  John  the  Baptist  and  the  conferring  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver,  and  iater  the  visitation  of  Peter, 
James  and  John,  who  held  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  who  conferred 
upon  Joseph  and  Oliver  the  keys  of  that  Priesthood. 

Now  just  a  word  or  two  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  con- 
clusion.   We  read  in  the  20th  section : 

"Therefore,  having  so  great  witnesses,  by  them  shall  the  world  be  judged, 
even  as  many  as  shall  hereafter  come  to  a  knowledge  of  this  work. 

"And  those  who  receive  it  in  faith,  and  work  righteousness,  shall  receive  a 
crown  of  eternal  life; 

"But  those  who  harden  their  hearts  in  unbelief,  and  reject  it,  it  shall  turn 
to  their  own  condemnation." 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Chrfst.  Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION 


93 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance  at 
this  conference,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  that  which 
the  Lord  would  have  me  say. 

I  do  not  know  just  what  effect  the  testimonies  of  men,  who 
have  been  members  of  the  Church  for  many  years,  have  upon  those 
who  do  not  know  the  truth,  or  just  how  far  they  may  be  led  through 
such  testimonies  to  investigate  the  gospel.  But  there  is  one  thing  by 
which  they  must*  be  impressed,  and  that  is  that  an  organization  that  has 
held  its  own  without  a  change  for  nearly  a  century  is  almost  without  a 
parallel  in  the  world.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
has  not  changed  in  its  doctrine.  It  is  almost  one  hundred  years  since 
the  Church  was  organized,  and  the  doctrines  that  were  taught  by  those 
early  elders  are  still  taught  by  the  men  and  women  of  the  present  time. 

Those  early  leaders  taught  that  man  had  an  ante-mortal  state,  and 
we  have  held  to  that  doctrine  for  a  century.  In  my  experience  I  have 
not  found  any  man  able  to  prove  that  doctrine  to  be  untrue ;  on  the 
contrary,  I  have  read  the  testimonies  of  hundreds  of  men  and  listened 
to  thousands  of  them  bear  testimony  that  it  is  true,  and  give  good  scrip- 
tural evidence  for  it.  The  elders  of  the  Church  testified  in  the  begin- 
ning concerning  the  Father  and  the  Son  appearing  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  declared  unto  the  children  of  men  that  he  is  a  per- 
sonal being.  The  Church  has  taught  this  doctrine  since  that  time,  for 
nearly  one  hundred  years,  and  in  my  experience  I  have  never  found  nor 
read  of  anyone  who  has  been  able  successfully  to  prove  that  it  is  not 
true,  or  that  it  was  not  a  doctrine  from  the  beginning  of  time. 

These  principles  of  the  gospel  must  surely  find  lodgment  in  the 
hearts  of  the  honest  wherever  they  are  found  and  where  men  are  able 
to  study  them.  I  glory  in  the  fact  that  the  Church  has  never  wavered  in 
the  least  in  all  its  history  in  doctrine  or  in  organization ;  that  it  has  con- 
stantly grown  until  it  has  become  the  greatest  organization  in  all  the 
world,  in  its  order  and  system,  in  the  excellence  of  its  social  scheme, 
in  the  perfection  of  its  doctrines,  and  in  its  spiritual  power.  The^ 
things  must  certainly  attract  the  attention  of  men.  They  are  a  warn- 
ing to  the  children  of  men  that  the  Lord  has  spoken,  and  the  lives  of 
men  who  testify  of  these  things  and  live  in  accordance  with  these  prin- 
ciples must  be  taken  into  consideration  by  those  who  oppose  them  and 
say  they  are  not  true.  The  Lord  will  undoubtedly  call  such  to  an  ac- 
counting sooner  or  later. 

I  have  heard  men  and  women  by  the  hundreds  testify  that  they 
know  the  gospel  is  true ;  that  its  principles  have  been  revealed  from 
the  Lord ;  that  they  know  they  lived  before  they  came  into  this  world ; 
that  they  know  that  God  our  eternal  Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and 
bones ;  that  they  do  know  that  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  is  among 
the  children  of  men  and  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  does  reveal 
and  will  constantly  reveal  his  mind  unto  his  servants  here  in  mortality. 


<>4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


They  have  testified  unto  me  that  they  know  they  have  heen  born  again; 
that  the  doctrines  which  they  had  heen  taught  previously  were  false; 
namely,  that  the  Father  through  his  Son  had  done  all  that  there  was  to 
do,  and  left  nothing  for  them  to  do  but  to  acknowledge  Christ  and  be 
saved.  They  have  testified  that  they  have  found  that  there  was  some- 
thing for  them  to  do;  that  they  must  needs  be  baptized  and  receive  the 
laying  on  of  hands  through  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  on  the  earth. 
As  a  result  they  were  baptized  by  fire  and  born  again  into  a  newness 
of  life;  they  were  thereby  able  to  comprehend  that  the  Father  and  his 
Son  were  personal  beings;  they  were  able  to  comprehend  that  they 
lived  before  they  came  into  the  world ;  they  were  able  to  understand  the 
need  of  baptism  for  the  dead,  as  well  as  for  the  living;  they  were  able 
to  see  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant ;  they  were  able  to  see  the 
great  plan  of  our  Father  and  to  realize  that  this  life  is  just  a  part  of 
the  existence  of  a  human  being.  This  knowledge  made  them  in  reality 
new  individuals,  they  were  thenceforth  different  in  their  lives. 

Not  long  ago  I  had  a  conversation  with  a  sister  eighty-two  years 
of  age  who  had  just  been  baptized  into  the  Church.  She  told  me  that 
she  had  been  so  bitter  all  her  life  that  she  would  not  even  talk  about 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  according  to  the  "Mormon"  idea  of  it,  and 
while  visiting  with  a  friend  who  belonged  to  this  Church  she  had  made 
the  request  that  religion  be  not  discussed  at  all.  The  good  sister,  who 
was  a  very  dear  friend  of  hers,  said,  "All  right,  we  will  not  discuss  re- 
ligion." But  she  left  the  Book  of  Mormon  open  where  this  other  sister 
could  find  it.  She  also  left  some  tracts  which  she  had  purchased  where 
they  might  be  read  by  her  friend  if  she  so  desired.  The  sister  told 
me  that  she  was  so  prejudiced  when  she  saw  that  book  open  that  she 
turned  around  and  backed  up  to  it  and  closed  it  for  fear  she  might 
see  something  she  would  believe.  However,  at  length,  she  read  a 
pamphlet,  and  then  another.  She  finally  read  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  was  baptized.  She  told  me  that  she  had  reared  a  good  family,  which 
she  had  loved  as  only  a  mother  can  love.  She  said  she  thought  she  had 
been  as  happy  as  a  person  could  be  when  she  was  rearing  her  little 
children,)  and  when  they  grew  to  manhood  and  womanhood  she  had  the 
privilege  of  living  with  them.  She  was  still  near  them  but  now  they 
were  so  enraged  at  her  joining  the  Church  that  they  would  hardly  let 
her  visit  them.  Notwithstanding  this  she  had  never  been  so  happy  in 
all  her  life  as  she  has  been  since  she  joined  the  Church.  She  had  found- 
nothing  else  to  compare  with  the  happiness  she  has  found  through  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph 'Smith  the  Prophet  in  this  day.  In 
the  hours  of  the  night  when  she  awakens  she  finds  herself  never  alone; 
she  has  much  to  think  about,  much  to  read,  and  much  to  do.  She  said 
to  me,  "I  have  been  born  again.  I  know  that  I  lived  before  I  came  into 
this  world,  and  I  know  that  my  Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones, 
and  I  know  that  the  Lord  has  spoken  in  these  the  last  days  and  has 
revealed  unto  Joseph  Smith  the  truth.  I  am  born  again."  And  she 
said  also,  'T  could  no  more  go  back  to  my  old  way  of  thinking  and  my 
old  way  of  worshiping  the  Lord  than  I  could  go  back  to  yesterday." 

Truly  these  testimonies  written  and  spoken,  distributed  in  all  parts 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION 


95 


of  the  earth  where  Christians  reside,  must  awaken  in  the  hearts  of  the 
honest  of  the  earth  a  desire  to  love  the  Lord. 

My  testimony  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  I  know 
there  has  been  no  change  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church.  I  have  read 
the  writings  of  the  early  elders  of  this  Church  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  those  who  were  with  him — Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball, Willard  Richards,  Wilford  Woodruff,  and  all  those  mighty  men. 
I  have  read  many  of  their  sermons  recorded  in  the  Journal  of  Dis- 
courses, and  in  the  other  histories  that  were  kept  and  are  now  in  exist- 
ence. I  have  made  it  a  matter  of  investigation  for  many  years,  and  I 
have  never  found  any  change.  The  same  spirit  which  prompted  those 
men  prompts  the  men  and  women  of  today,  and  it  is  the  greatest  testi- 
mony to  the  children  of  men,  or  ought  to  be,  that  there  is  one  guiding 
hand  which  directs  and  governs  the  destinies  of  this  Church. 

I  know  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  lives  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  his  prophet  and  is  his  prophet,  and  that  the  power  of  his 
priesthood  and  his  prophetic  appointment  was  delivered  to  Brigham 
Young,  who  followed  him,  and  that  it  is  here  in  the  earth  today,  with 
President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  know  there  is  no  other  organization  under 
the  shining  sun  that  holds  the  Priesthood  and  the  power  of  God  to 
administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  on  this  earth.  I  know  that 
the  history  of  this  Church  must  be  recognized  and  reckoned  with.  1 
know  men  who  say  there  is  no  such  thing  as  revelation  in  our  day,  yet 
the  Book  of  Mormon  has  never  been  proved  to  be  untrue  by  any  man 
who  has  written  or  spoken  about  it.  I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  judgments  of  God  are  just,  and  that  his  rewards  are  certain 
and  sure.    I  take  great  pleasure  in  bearing  this  testimony  unto  you. 

I  take  great  pleasure  and  happiness  in  my  work  in  the  mission  field, 
where  I  have  been  for  a  long  time,  and  where  I  have  traveled  among 
the  children  of  men  in  the  six  states  of  the  Central  States  mission — 
fifteen  millions  of  people.  There  is  a  great  body  of  men  and  women 
there  who  bear  testimony  constantly  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  The 
work  of  God  our  eternal  Father  is  greater  today  than  it  has  ever  been 
before  and  more  surely  established  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men, 
for  witnesses  such  as  this  fine  old  sister  I  have  referred  to  are  found 
in  almost  all  of  the  counties  of  the  states  where  I  preside.  And  what  is 
true  of  that  woman  is  true  of  others,  whom  the  Lord  God  our  eternal 
Father  has  raised  up  as  witnesses  in  all  parts  of  the  world ;  their  testi- 
monies are  the  same. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  be  happy  in  a  knowledge  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  that  he  has  reserved  us  to  come  forth  in 
this  day  and  generation  of  time  when  the  fulness  of  his  gospel  is  in 
the  earth.  I  pray  that  we  may  be  able  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God  and  walk  in  his  paths  and  sustain  him  through  his  priesthood,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mbuntain  top." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Mark  Austin. 
The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFEREN(  'E 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  fcegan  at  2  o'clock  in  the  Tabernacle. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lewis  R.  Anderson,  president  of  the 
Manti  temple. 

A  baritone  solo  was  sung  by  Wm,  H.  Russell.  "Open  the  gates  of 
the  temple." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

In  the  few  minutes  that  are  mine  to  occupy,  I  would  like  to  say 
something  for  the  especial  benefit  of  the  stranger  within  our  gates — 
something  that  may  help  him  or  her  to  a  better  understanding  than 
possibly  they  now  possess  of  what  the  world  terms  "Mormonism."  It 
may  also  serve  as  a  reminder  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  especially  to  the 
younger  or  less  experienced  members  of  the  Church. 

A  COMMON  ERROR 

The  commonest  error  in  relation  to  "Mormonism"  is  the  notion 
that  it  is  a  new  religion,  and  that  it  originated  with  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
Nineteenth  Century.  Those  who  hold  this  view,  and  allow  it  to  limit 
their  vision  of  the  subject,  will  never  understand  "Mormonism"  aright. 

For  this  reason :  They  are  considering  only  a  part  of  it — a  very 
important  part,  it  is  true,  but  still  only  a  part ;  and  their  comprehension 
o^f  that  is  necessarily  imperfect,  since  some  knowledge  of  the  subject 
in  its  entirety  is  essential  to  a  thorough  understanding  of  any  part 
thereof. 

THE  TRUE  TITLE 

The  only  new  thing  about  "Mormonism"  is  the  nickname  that  it 
now  bears.  Its  true  title  is  "The  Everlasting  Gospel"  (Rev.  14:6),  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  did  not  originate  with  Joseph  Smith,  nor 
with  any  other  man.  It  is  not  a  product  of  human  wisdom.  It  is  of 
divine  origin.  It  was  instituted  in  the  heavens  before  the  earth  was 
formed,  as  the  means  of  uplift  and  promotion  for  "the  lesser  intelli- 
gences," in  the  midst  of  whom  the  Great  Creator  found  himself  at  the 
beginning,  and  who  became  his  sons  and  daughters,  first  in  the  spirit 
and  afterwards  in  the  flesh. 

THE  GOSPEL'S  ANTIQUITY 

It  is  the  gospel  of  Christ,  but  it  did  not  make  its  first  appearance 
upon  this  planet  at  the  time  of  Christ's  crucifixion.    While  it  seemed 
new  to  that  generation,  who  were  "astonished  at  his  doctrine,"  in  real- 
ity it  was  older  than  all  the  ages,  older  than  Earth  itself,  and  had  been 
'  given  to  man  again  and  again  before  any  preaching  of  it  by  the  ancient 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNE\ 


97 


Apostles.  It  was  a  restored  gospel  then,  as  it  is  a  restored  gospel  now, 
and  had  been  revealed  from  God  out  of  Eternity  at  the  very  beginning 
of  Time. 

THE  MACHINERY  AND  THE  POWER 

The  gospel  is  more  than  a  code  of  laws  and  ordinances,  an  em- 
bodiment of  eternal  principles,  obedience  to  which  must  precede  en- 
trance into  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  The  machinery  is  one 
thing;  the  power  that  moves  the  machinery  is  another.  God  is  the 
author  and  giver  of  both.  Divine  authority,  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood, comes  with  the  gospel,  to  make  operative  for  man  its  laws  and 
ordinances  and  the  eternal  principles  of  which  it  is  composed.  The  gifts 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  are  also  necessary — imperatively  so,  in  order  to  ren- 
der effective  the  great  plan  of  salvation,  exaltation  and  eternal  glory. 
Faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  indis- 
pensable parts  of  the  celestial  machinery ;  but  of  what  avail,  if  the 
power  were  not  turned  on? 

The  fall  of  man  and  man's  redemption  from  the  fall,  are  basic 
principles  of  the  divine  plan — the  very  foundations  upon  which  it  rests. 
If  Adam  had  not  fallen,  had  not  become  mortal  and  subject  unto  death, 
he  and  his  descendants  would  not  have  been  in  a  position  to  avail  them- 
selves of  the  gospel's  uplifting  powers.  In  other  words,  the  spirit  would 
have  had  no  body,  and  consequently  would  have  been  incapable  of  ex- 
altation. And  if  Christ  had  not  died  to  redeem  mankind,  the  machinery 
for  human  uplift  would  have  stood  still  and  death  would  have  been  per- 
petvfal.  All  that  went  before  would  have  been  in  vain.  Adam  fell  to 
give  us  mortal  life.    Christ  died  to  give  us  life  eternal. 

THE  DISPENSATIONS 

There  is  only  one  gospel,  but  there  are  many  gospel  dispensations — 
as  those  periods  are  termed  when  God  has  spoken  to  man  and  revealed 
these  saving  principles,  these  exalting  powers.  ''Mormonism,"  as  com- 
monly understood,  stands  for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  in  this  Lat- 
ter-day Dispensation.  But  that  is  not  all.  It  stands  for  the  gospel  itself 
in  all  the  dispensations,  ancient  and  modern. 

How  many  dispensations  there  are,  I  know  not.  But  this  I  know : 
Whatever  their  number  or  the  names  by  which  they  may  bje  properly 
known,  they  are  all  inter-related,  are  links  of  one  great  chain,  parts  of 
one  vast  whole;  and  each,  from  the  beginning,  has  prepared  the  way 
for  its  successor,  the  dispensation  that  was  to  follow.  Before  I  finish, 
1  hope  to  point  out  snme  of  those  relationships. 

The  relative  importance  of  these  dispensations  is  not  to  be  gauged 
by  the  brief  accounts  given  of  them  in  the  Bible.  That  sacred  record 
was  intended  to  emphasize  the  history  and  mission  of  the  House  of 
Israel,  through  which  was  to  come  the  Savior  of  Jhe  World.  Other 
things  of  vital  importance  are  only  glanced  at.  The  Bible  merely  hints 
at  the  existence  of  the  Land  of  Zion,  the  visit  of  the  Savior  to  the  Ne- 
phrites, and  the  great  events  that  were  to  take  place  upon  this  chosen 
ground. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


JOSEPH  THE  PROPHET 

Speaking  of  Joseph  Smith.  There  are  those  who  think  that  we 
worship  him.  We  do  not.  We  love  him  and  revere  his  memory.  He 
was  God's  prophet — that  is  our  testimony  concerning  him ;  and  he  stands 
at  the  head  of  this  last  and  greatest  of  the  gospel  dispensations — that  is 
his  proper  place.  He  never  claimed  anything  beyond  it.  Why  should 
we  claim  it  for  him? 

It  is  sometimes  charged  that  we  give  him  a  standing  next  to  Jesus 
Christ.  I  know  of  no  warrant  for  such  an  assertion,  nor  for  such  a 
belief ;  and  I  am  fairly  well  acquainted  with  the  Church's  history,  doc- 
trines, and  divine  revelations.  Joseph,  himself,  testifies  that  Adam 
stands  next  to  Christ,  and  Noah  next  to  Adam,  in  the  Priesthood. 

adam's  presidency 

Joseph  Smith  also  declares  that  Adam  presides  over  all  the  gospel 
dispensations,  including  this,  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
Each  has  its  own  immediate  presiding  authority ;  but  the  great  head  of 
the  human  family,  the  prince  and  patriarch  of  our  race,  presides  over 
them  all. 

Is  an  illustration  desired  ?  We  have  one  right  at  hand.  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  the  now  visible  head  of  the  Church,  by  virtue  of  his 
general  presidency  presides  over  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  over  all  our  out- 
side missions,  over  every  organization  and  institution  in  the  Church ; 
and  yet  each  one  of  these  has,  under  him  and  those  associated  with' him, 
its  local  head,  its  immediate  presiding  authority.  In  like  manner  Father 
Adam  presides  over  all  the  gospel  dispensations. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD 

Joseph  Smith,  in  a  great  discourse  on  Priesthood,  says : 

"The  Priesthood  was  first  given  to  Adam ;  he  obtained  the  First  Presidency, 
and  held  the  keys  of  it  from  generation  to  generation.  *  *  *  The  Priest- 
hood is  an  everlasting  principle.  *  *  *  The  keys  have  to  be  brought  from 
heaven  whenever  the  Gospel  is  sent.  When  they  are  revealed  from  heaven,  it 
is  by  Adam's  authority."    {History  of  the  Church,  vol.  3,  pp.  385-386.) 

Adam  was  the  first  on  earth  to  receive  the  gospel  and  to  exercise 
the  powers  of  the  Priesthood.  By  means  of  it  he  was  redeemed  from 
endless  death;  and  he  taught  his  children  these  truths  and  transmitted 
them  to  posterity. 

It  was  decreed  by  the  Almighty,  in  Adam's  day,  that  the  gospel 
"should  be  in  the  world  until  the  end  thereof."  How  can  this  be  har- 
monized with  the  idea  and  the  need  of  gospel  restorations?  In  this 
way :  The  gospel,  because  of  the  world's  unworthiness,  has  been  with- 
drawn at  times,  leaving  but  a  partial  illumination  to  guide  mankind. 
But  those  withdrawals  have  been  only  temporary.  Whenever  condi- 
tions have  become  favorable,  and  the  Lord's  purposes  have  demanded 
it,  the  fulness  of  the  Truth  has  been  restored — brought  back  again ; — 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


99 


and  by  these  repeated  restorations,  forming  a  continuous  chain  of  dis- 
pensations, the  Almighty  has  made  good  his  decree,  that  the  gospel 
''should  be  in  the  world  until  the  end  thereof." 

ANCIENT  OF  DAYS 

Says  Joseph  Smith:  "I  saw  Adam  in  the  Valley  of  Adam-ondi- 
Ahman.  He  called  together  his  children  and  blessed  them  with  a  patri- 
archal blessing."  This  vision  was,  of  course,  retrospective,  having  ref- 
erence to  the  time  when  Adam  dwelt  upon  the  earth.  In  another  place 
the  Prophet  refers  to  the  same  incident  in  these  words : 

"Three  years  previous  to  the  death  of  Adam,  he  called  Seth,  Enos,  Cainan, 
Mahalaleel,  Jared,  Enoch  and  Methusaleh,  who  were  all  high  priests,  with  the 
residue  of  his  posterity  who  were  righteous,  into  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ahman, 
and  there  bestowed  upon  them  his  last  blessing.  *  *  *  And  Adam  stood  up 
in  the  midst  of  the  congregation,  and  notwithstanding  he  was  bowed  down  with 
age,  being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  predicted  what  should  befall  his  posterity  to 
the  latest  generation."  (History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  3,  p.  388;  Doctrine  land 
Covenants  107:53-56.) 

This  alone  indicates  a  relationship  between  Adam's  dispensation 
and  ours.  But  there  is  more  to  the  same  effect.  The  world  has  not  seen 
the  last  of  Father  Adam.  He  is  coming  again — coming  as  the  Ancient 
of  Days,  to  fulfill  the  prophecy  of  Daniel  concerning  him.  And  he  will 
come  to  the  very  place  where,  bowed  with  the  weight  of  his  nine  cen- 
turies (men  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  those  days),  he  blessed  his 
posterity  before  the  close  of  his  earthly  career.  In  the  Valley  of  Adam- 
ondi-Ahman,  now  in  Western  Missouri,  almost  within  hailing  distance 
of  the  ancient  site  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  where  the  New  Jerusalem  is 
to  rise,  will  sit  the  Ancient  of  Days,  counseling  his  worthy  children  and 
preparing  them  for  the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God. 

A  CLOSE  RELATIONSHIP 

Adam's  mighty  blessing  upon  his  posterity,  forecasting  the  history 
of  the  human  race — the  mightiest  patriarchal  blessing  ever  given — taken 
in  connection  with  his  prospective  return  into  the  midst  of  his  right- 
eous descendants,  upon  the  precise  spot  where  he  bestowed  his  farewell 
benediction  and  uttered  his  wonderful,  all-telling  prophecy,  shows  a  very 
close  relationship  between  the  first  and  the  final  dispensations  of  the 
gospel. 

ENOCH  AND  ZION 

And  what  of  other  gospel  dispensations?  What  of  Enoch,  the 
seventh  from  Adam  in  the  patriarchal  succession?  What  of  him  and 
his  period?  Was  it  not  prophetic  of  our  day — symbolical  of  the  build- 
ing up  of  Zion  in  this  dispensation?  What  is  said  of  Enoch  and  his 
city,  sanctified  by  the  Law  of  Consecration,  without  which  there  can  be 
no  Zion,  and  consequently  no  coming  of  the  Christ?  Moses  says :  "And 
the  Lord  called  his  people  Zion,  because  they  were  of  one  heart  and  one 
mind,  and  dwelt  in  righteousness,  and  there  was  no  poor  among  them." 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Such  a  condition  will  be  again,  and  the  Lord  will  come  again,  as  he  has 
promised : 

"As  I  live,  even  so  will  I  come  in  the  last  days,  in  the  days  of  wickedness 
and  vengeance.  *  *  *  And  righteousness  will  I  send  down  out  of  heaven, 
and  truth  will  I  send  forth  out  of  the  earth,  to  bear  testimony  of  mine  Only 
Begotten;  and  righteousness  and  truth  will  I  cause  to  sweep  the  earth  as  with 
a  flood,  to  gather  out  mine  elect  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth,  unto  a 
place  which  I  shall  prepare,  an  Holy  City,  that  my  people  may  gird  up  their 
loins,  and  be  looking  forth  for  the  time  of  my  coming;  for  there  shall  be  my 
tabernacle,  and  it  shall  be  called  Zion,  a  New  Jerusalem. 

"'And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch  :  Then  shalt  thou  and  all  thy  city  meet 
them  there,  and  we  will  receive  them  into  our  bosom,  and  they  shall  see  us  ;  and 
we  will  fall  upon  their  necks,  and  they  shall  fall  upon  our  necks,  and  we  will 
kiss  each  other.  And  there  shall  be  mine  abode,  and  it  shall  be  Zion,  which  shall 
come  forth  out  of  all  the  creations  which  I  have  made;  and  for  the  space  of  a 
thousand  years  the  earth  shall  rest."    (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Moses  7:60-64.) 

In  other  words,  the  Zion  of  Enoch  foreshadowed  the  Zion  of  the 
Last  Days,  with  which  it  is  destined  to  blend.  And  not  only  Enoch, 
but  all  the  patriarchs,  prophets,  and  apostles  who  have  lived  on  Earth 
since  Time  began,  will  come  with  Christ  "when  the  Lord  brings  again 
Zion." 

AS  IT  WAS  SO  IT  SHALL  BE 

Noah,  whose  other  name  is  Gabriel,  the  Angel  of  the  Resurrection 
— how  could  we  do  without  him  ?  He  holds  the  keys  to  bring  us  forth 
from  the  grave.  He  is  one  of  our  ancestors.  His  three  sons  repeopled 
the  earth  after  the  Flood;  Shem  peopling  Asia;  Ham,  Africa;  and 
Japheth,  Europe.  We  are  from  Shem,  through  Abraham  and  the  House 
of  Israel,  though  mixed  with  the  children  of  Japheth,  the  Gentiles. 

In  Noah's  day  "a  veil  of  darkness"  covered  the.  earth ;  and  accord- 
ing to  revelation  a  like  condition  is  to  characterize  the  Last  Day,  thus 
foretokened.  The  spiritual  part  of  that  prophecy  is  even  now  fulfilling. 
What  could  be  darker  in  a  spiritual  way  than  "the  gross  darkness"  that 
covers  the  modern  world  in  relation  to  the  things  of  God?  Flounder- 
ing— floundering — like  blind  men  among  breakers,  not  knowing  how  to 
swim,  nor  in  which  direction  lies  the  shore !  Such  is  the  plight  of  even 
the  wisest  among  them. 

Of  Noah's  day,  it  is  written:    "As  the  days  of  Noe  were,  so  shal 
also  the  coming  of  the  son  of  man  be."    And  it  was  the  Son  of  Man 
though  I  prefer  to  call  him  the  Son  of  God — who  said  it.   Baptized  with 
water  in  the  days  of  Noah,  the  earth  will  yet  be  baptized  with  fire  and 
with  the  Holy  Ghost. 

ABRAHAM  AND  THE  COVENANT 

Our  relationship  with  Abraham,  I  have  already  touched  upon.  W 
are  among  his  descendants,  and  are  actually  taking  part  in  the  fulfil 
ment  of  the  promise  made  to  him  by  Jehovah,  that  in  his  seed  should 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth  be  blessed.  Are  we  not  blessing  the  nations 
by  carrying  to  them  the  gospel,  and  by  administering  its  sacred  or- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


101 


ciinances  for  the  living  and  the  dead?  The  great  fulfilment  of  that 
covenant  is  in  Jehovah  himself,  who  came  through  the  lineage  of  Abra- 
ham, to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world.  But  a  part  fulfilment  is  in  the 
world-dispersion  of  the  children  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  the 
blood  of  Israel,  the  blood  that  believes,  supplemented  by  the  present-day 
gathering  of  Israel,  whose  right  it  is  to  prepare  the  way  before  the  God 
of  Israel  who  is  coming  to  reign. 

MISSION  OF  THE  CHRIST 

Christ  redeemed  all  mankind,  "treading  the  wine  press  alone;"  but 
the  House  of  Israel  prepared  the  way  for  his  coming,  and  continued 
the  work  that  he  began.  This  is  especially  true  of  the  prophets  who 
foretold  his  advent,  and  the  apostles  who  preached  his  gospel  to  Jew 
and  gentile.  Nor  let  the  modern  apostles,  seventies  and  elders  be 
overlooked,  who  are  now  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  Gentiles,  and  ere 
long  will  carry  it  to  the  Jews. 

Nobody,  I  hope,  connects  the  Savior's  mighty  mission  only  with 
the  age  in  which  he  was  crucified.  That  was-  but  a  part  of  it.  The 
death,  on  Calvary  was  no  more  the  ending  of  that  divine  career,  than 
the  birth  at  Bethlehem  was  its  beginning.  The  Savior's  mission  is  uni- 
versal, extending  from  eternity  into  time  and  back  again  into  eternity. 
All  the  ages  of  the  past,  all  the  gospel  dispensations,  from  Adam  to 
Joseph  Smith,  are  parts  of  the  all-embracing  mission  of  the  world's 
Redeemer.  It  is  all  Christ's  work,  from  the  hour  of  his  election  in  the 
Eternal  Councils,  down  to  the  Millennial  Reign,  during  which  he  will 
sanctify  the  earth  and  prepare  it  for  celestial  glory. 

The  Mosaic-Judaic  Dispensation  was  but  preparatory  to  the 
Christian  Dispensation ;  and  the  Christian  Dispensation  was  a  forerun- 
ner to  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  They  are  linked  to- 
gether, and  are  no  more  to  be  considered  independently  and  apart,  than 
are  the  histories  of  the  United  States,  Great  Britain,  the  Roman  Empire, 
and  the  parent  nations  that  preceded  them.  They  are  all  parts  of  one 
stupendous  whole. 

The  first  and  second  comings  of  the  Savior  complement  each  other. 
As  Lamb  then ;  as  Lion  now ;  not  again  to  be  sacrificed,  but  to  ascend 
the  Throne  of  David  and  reign  over  the  House  of  Israel  forever.  It 
was  to  prepare  the  way  before  the  glorious  advent  of  the  King  of  kings, 
that  God's  prophet,  revelator  and  seer,  Joseph  Smith,  was  raised  up,  or 
rather  sent  down,  to  play  his  noble  part  in  the  winding  up  scene  of  the 
great  Drama  of  the  Ages. 

And  this  is  "Mormonism,"  the  everlasting  gospel,  the  bond  that 
unites  the  present  and  the  past,  the  children  and  the  fathers ;  that  binds 
together  all  the  gospel  dispensations,  all  things  that  are  Christ's  both 
in  heaven  and  on  earth.  It  is  not  an  earthly  growth.  It  is  not  of  human 
planting.  Its  roots  are  grounded  in  eternity,  and  its  branches  have  borne 
fruit  through  all  the  centuries  of  time. 

Well  might  Brother  Nibley  say,  as  he  said  yesterday,  "What  has 
the  world  to  offer  in  the  place  of  it  ?" 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

An  editorial  in  a  local  paper,  last  Sunday  morning,  referring  to 
this  great  assembling  of  Latter-day  Saints,  contained  the  following  com- 
ment : 

A  PEOPLE  OF  STRONG  CONVICTIONS 

"Those  who  attend  this  conference  will  see  a  host  of  sincere  believers — in- 
deed, they  more  than  believe,  they  'know'  as  many  of  them  will  assert.  Naturally 
it  took  a  people  of  strong  convictions  to  stick  it  out  in  this  valley  when  the  pio- 
neers came  here  in  1847.  Quite  as  naturally  a  strong  community  would  grow 
out  of  this  beginning." 

It  is  true,  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people  of  strong  convictions ; 
and  convictions — convictions  of  the  truth — are  the  strongest,  most  po- 
tent factors  in  the  world.  It  has  been  truly  said  that  no  historic  event 
is  so  important  as  the  advent  of  a  conviction  of  a  new  truth.  "The 
power  of  such  conviction  in  the  human  soul  is  to  build  up  institutions, 
to  change  the  course  of  events,  and  to  alter  the  tendencies  of  human 
affairs;  and  among  all  convictions  there  are  none  so  strong,  permanent, 
and  unconquerable  as  religious  convictions."  "Ideas,"  says  Paxton,  "go 
booming  through  the  world  louder  than  cannon.  Thoughts  are  mightier 
than  armies." 

TWO  POTENT  CONVICTIONS 

If  I  were  to  couch  in  definite  terms  two  of  the  most  potent  con- 
victions in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  would  name:  First, 
an  abiding  assurance  that  the  gospel,  as  taught  by  tlic  Redeemer  zvhen  \ 
he  lived  among  men  and  which  was  later  modified,  changed  and  cor- 
rupted by  men,  has  been  restored  by  the  Redeemer  in  its  purity  and  ful- 
ness; and  second,  following  naturally  the  first,  a  conviction  in  the 
heart  of  every  member  of  this  Church  that  the  responsibility  rests  upon 
the  membership  of  the  Church  to  preach  the  restored  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  It  is  this  second  conviction  of 
which  I  wish  to  speak  this  afternoon. 

A  DESIRE  TO  MAKE  ALL  PEOPLE  CHRISTIANS 

Springing  out  of  this  sense  of  responsibility  to  bear  witness  to  all 
people,  is  the  desire  to  Christianize  the  world.  Some  Protestant  min- 
isters do  not  like  to  .consider  "Mormons"  Christians.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
the  fact  remains  that  the  paramount  desire  in  every  Latter-day  Saint's 
heart  is  to  make  all  people  Christians,  and  that  is  a  conviction  second 
only  in  power  and  urgency  to  the  testimony  that  God  has  spoken  in  this 
dispensation.  "Go  ye  and  teach  all  nations,"  said  the  Savior  to  his  dis- 
ciples. "This  promise  is  unto  you  and  to  your  children  and  to  all  that 
are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call,"  said  Peter 
on  the  day  of  Pentecost.  "Proclaim  these  things  to  the  world,"  said 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  through  inspiration  in  this  age.  "that  faith  might 
be  increased  in  the  world,  that  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be 
established." 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


103 


WHAT  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ARE  DOING  TO  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL 

I  know  of  no  other  religious  conviction  that  has  affected  the  daily 
life  of  a  people  more  potently  than  this  desire  to  have  every  nation  hear 
the  message  of  this  latter-day  gospel  of  peace.  Very  few  indeed  are 
the  homes  in  the  Church  that  have  not  been  influenced  by  it.  At  the 
present  time  the  people  are  supporting  over  2,000  of  their  sons  and 
daughters  in  various  parts  of  the  world  at  a  monetary  sacrifice  of  ap- 
proximately $1,800,000  a  year.  To  know  just  how  keenly  this  responsi- 
bility is  felt  and  how  willingly  discharged,  I  will  ask  you  to  recall  in- 
dividual cases :  A  young  man  was  called  from  this  city  to  go  on  a 
mission  to  the  Pacific  Islands.  He  responded  and  gave  his  message  to 
the  world  as  best  he  could.  A  few  weeks  ago  he  came  into  my  office 
and  said :  "I  have  been  home  a  year,  and  I  have  succeeded  during  that 
year  in  paying  all  but  $100  of  the  $600  debt  I  had  when  I  returned.  In 
another  two  months  I  will  have  it  all  paid,  and  my  tithing  in  full  be- 
sides." "Well,  was  it  worth  it?"  said  I.  "Twice  as  much,"  he  promptly 
replied.  "I  would  not  have  missed  that  experience  for  anything."  I 
met  a  young  man  when  I  was  coming  home  from  the  Eastern  States 
mission  who  had  spent  all  his  earnings  in  that  mission,  and  also  several 
hundred  dollars  besides,  which  a  banker  in  his  home  town  had  furnished 
him,  merely  upon  the  young  man's  promissory  note.  He  has  paid  his 
note  since  coming  home,  and  although  he  has  been  in  il>  health  part  of 
the  time,  he  rejoices  in  his  missionary  service.  I  met  a  mother  on  the 
train  whose  son  was  then  in  the  mission  field.  She  said  she  was  hav- 
ing a  difficult  time  to  pay  the  taxes  and  other  expenses  and  to  keep  her 
son  in  the  field,  and  sympathetically  I  suggested  that  perhaps  he  might 
better  be  released.  She  turned  in  her  seat  suddenly  and  said :  "Brother 
McKay,  I  would  rather  work  these  fingers  to  the  bone  than  to  have  my 
boy  come  home  before  his  duty  is  performed."  These  illustrations  show 
that  this  conviction  to  preach  to  the  world  is  one  which  moves  to  action. 
It  is  truly  powerful,  permanent  and  we  hope  unconquerable. 

I  have  said  two  thousand  missionaries  are  now  in  the  field.  Presi- 
dent Grant  reported  in  his  opening  remarks  that  there  have  been  ap- 
proximately between  35,000  and  40,000  missionaries  sent  into  service 
since  1837.  One  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  informed  me  the  other 
day  that  if  we  include  local  missionaries  the  number  will  approximate 
70,000.  Suppose  that  we  consider  just  for  illustration,  that  there  have 
been  35,000  foreign  missionaries  out.  Crediting  each  missionary  with 
an  earning  capacity  of  $100  per  month  and  his  average  expense  in  the 
mission  field  at  $40  a  month,  and  assuming  that  each  missionary  has 
averaged  two  years  in  the  field,  this  desire  to  Christianize  the  world  has 
cost  the  members  of  the  Church  $117,600,000.  That  is  not  including 
the  amount  of  money  spent  by  the  Church  for  the  return  fares  of  the 
elders,  nor  the  amount  of  money  spent  on  chapels  and  halls  in  the  mis- 
sion fields.  If  you  add  merely  the  sum  expended  by  the  Church  to  that 
spent  by  the  people  during  that  time  you  will  find  that  there  has  been 
expended  by  this  Church  for  missionary  purposes  alone,  approximately 
$121,500,000,  over  three-fifths  of  the  assessed  valuation  of  Salt  Lake 
City  during  1926,  and  nearly  one-sixth  the  total  assessed  valuation  of 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  State  of  Utah.  In  other  words,  the  people  have  given  in  value, 
three-fifths  of  the  city's  assessed  valuation  in  an  expression  of  a  desire 
to  make  the  world  believe  in  Christianity.  I  use  that  term  in  its  proper 
sense — belief  in  'Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Evidently 
there  is  a  force  behind  this  conviction  that  the  world  needs  Christian- 
izing. 

WHY  THE  WORLD  NEEDS  CHRISTIANIZING 

But  does  the  world  need  Christianizing?  Our  Protestant  brethren 
say,  "Why  don't  you  send  your  elders  out  to  the  heathen,  why  go  to 
Christian  nations?"  As  I  have  said,  our  mission  is  to  the  whole  world. 
We  believe  so-called  Christian  nations  need  the  message  as  well  as  the 
so-called  heathen  lands,  and  Christian  ministers  by  their  own  statements 
confirm  this  belief.  For  example :  Recently  in  the  Literary  Digest 
under  a  glaring  heading,  "The  crack  of  doom  has  sounded  for  Protest- 
antism," one  Reverend  Herbert  Parrish  says  that  it  is  his  conviction 
that  "the  sooner  Protestantism  disappears  from  American  life  the  bet- 
ter. Its  narrow  sectarian  spirit,  fostering  division,  incapable  of  a  large 
synthesis  of  values,  of  unity,  unfits  it  to  represent  our  national  religious 
life.  *  *  *  As  a  moral  guide  it  is  superficial,  depending  on  the 
exterior  force  of  state  legislation  to  effect  the  redemption  of  the  race. 
As  a  mystical  experience  it  is  sentimental,  without  intelligence,  and  with 
narrow  vision.  As  a  teaching  force  it  is  vague,  negative  and  uncertain. 
As  an  organization  it  is  illogical  and  chaotic."  That  I  consider  a  very 
severe  arraignment  of  Protestantism  by  a  Protestant  pastor.  I  do  not 
know  him,  nor  do  I  know  by  what  authority  he  speaks.  But  having 
this  in  mind  yesterday,  as  I  listened  to  President  Grant  quote  a  minister's 
prognostication  as  printed  in  the  Anaconda  Standard,  I  thought,  well, 
here  is  another  Pastor  proving  that  minister's  prognostication  correct. 

Probably  a  more  trustworthy  and  authentic  authority  is  Henry 
Emerson  Fosdick,  one  of  the  leading  thinkers  in  our  nation  today,  who 
commenting  on  the  need  of  modern  religious  leadership  writes : 

"No  society  ever  has  been  healthy  whose  religious  life  was  unhealthy.  Even 
those  who  are  impatient  of  contemporary  formulations  of  faith,  those  who  are 
outside  the  churches,  and  alienated  from  their  denominational  loyalty,  should  still 
be  deeply  concerned  about  the  fortunes  of  religion.  A  society  which,  providing 
for  the  future,  builds  great  factories,  immense  railroad  systems,  and  even  in- 
numerable schools,  but  does  not  care  whether  the  future  has  a  wholesome  relig- 
ious life,  is  playing  a  fatally  short-sighted  game. 

"In  view  of  this  fact  the  situation  which  we  face  is  serious.  Much  of  our 
contemporary  Christianity  is  not  making  people  better,  but  worse.  It  accentuates 
bitterness,  brings  out  meanness,  sanctions  ignorance  and  bigotry,  divides  those 
ivho  might  otherwise  be  brotherly,  and  lapses  from  its  high  possibilities  into  a 
force  for  spiritual  deterioration  and  decay:" 

Are  not  these  statements  and  others  that  might  be  given,  sufficient 
answer  regarding  the  need  of  working  for  the  Christianizing  of  the 
world  ? 

ARE  THE  SO-CALLED  "MORMONS"  CHRISTIANS  ? 

However,  a  more  important  question  for  us  today  is  this  :  "Are  the 
so-called  'Mormons'  true  Christians  and  does  the  Church  of  Jestis  Christ 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


105 


of  Latter-day  Saints  contain  the  elements  ot  a  world-wide  Christian 
religion?"  It  is  my  sincere  belief  and  testimony  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  commonly  called  "Mormons,''  are  Christians  in  the  truest  and 
fullest  sense  of  the  term,  and  that  this  Church  is  world-wide  in  its 
comprehensiveness,  in  organization,  and  in  its  blessing  and  salvation 
of  the  human  family.  As  true  Christianity  should  and  as  it  did  in  the 
days  of  the  Savior,  "Mormonism"  combines  the  essential  elements  in  the 
teachings  of  Israel's  prophets,  priests  and  sages  ;  and  in  accepting  the 
Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testament  as  the  Savior  of  mankind,  it  fulfils  the 
noblest  aspirations  of  the  Hebrew  race,  thereby  indicating  a  world- 
wide scope  so  far  as  Israel's  people  and  Israel's  God  are  concerned. 

All  that  is  "virtuous,  lovely,  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy"  in  the 
teachings  of  all  the  great  religious  teachers  of  mankind — teachings  that 
today  are  influencing  hundreds  of  millions  of  God's  children,  are  com- 
prehended in  the  ethical  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  What 
Charles  Foster  Kent  says  of  the  effect  of  true  Christianity,  is  equally 
true  of  "Mormonism:" 

"It  simply  and  satisfactorily  unites  religion  and  ethics  by  emphasizing  relig- 
ion and  by  giving  to  ethics  the  inspiration  of  a  strong  personal  faith.  It  appeals 
to  the  individual  will  through  both  the  reason  and  the  emotions.  Thereby  it 
touches  and  completely  commands  the  whole  man :  his  intellect,  his  feelings,  his 
faith  and  his  acts.  It  sets  before  men  a  worthy  goal ;  in  the  present  life  true 
happiness,  won  through  self-denial  and  service,  and  preserved  by  faith  that  frees 
men  from  the  harrassing  fears  and  worries  of  life.  For  the  future  it  holds  out 
the  sure  promise  of  individual  peace  and  joy  and  growth,  since  the  object  of  its 
faith  is  the  God  of  the  living,  whose  beneficent  rule  is  revealed  in  every  phase 
of  human  experience." 

"Mormonism"  is  an  authoritative  religion,  yet  at  the  same  time  the 
most  thoroughly  democratic  Church  on  earth — a  combination  that  is 
well  worthy  of  serious  thought.  It  emphasizes  the  universal  bonds  of 
human  brotherhood.  It  seeks  by  training  the  individual  conscience  and 
will  to  establish  a  closely  knit,  world-wide  fraternity.  It  glorifies  hu- 
manity and  all  normal  human  relations.  It  is  a  spiritual  force  emanating 
from  God  himself. 

At  one  time  it  grieved  me  to  know  that  this  Church  was  not  num- 
bered among  Protestant  churches.  But  now  I  realize  that  the  Church 
of  Christ  is  more  than  a  protest  against  the  errors  and  evils  of  Catholi- 
cism. This  Church  was  established  in  the  only  way  in  which  the  Church 
of  Christ  can  be  established,  by  direct  authority  from  God.  Thus 
founded  it  invites  the  whole  world  to  come  to  a  Church  recognized  by 
God  himself,  and  which  offers  every  advantage  that  the  human  mind, 
the  emotions  and  desires  may  contemplate  in  the  ful filing  of  the  in- 
dividual mission  on  this  earth.  "It  is  an  ever-broadening  wave  of 
direct  personal  influence,  destined  ultimately  to  touch  and  transform 
all  men,  so  that  they  like  Jesus  shall  become  Godlike."  "Mormonism," 
as  true  Christianity,  "subdues  selfishness,  regulates  the  passions,  sub- 
ordinates the  appetites,  quickens  the  intellect,  exalts  the  affections.  It 
promotes  industry,  honesty,  truth,  purity,  kindness.  It  humbles  the 
proud,  exalts  the  lowly,  upholds  the  law,  favors  liberty,  is  essential  to 
it,  and  would  unite  men  in  one  great  brotherhood." 


i06 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  WORLD  OUR  FIELD  OF  ACTIVITY 

Most  earnestly  do  I  hope  that  we  shall  never  lose  the  great  con- 
viction that  the  world  is  our  field  of  activity.  Can  you  think  of  any- 
thing more  potent  in  moving  a  people  to  action  ? 

THIS  ENTAILS  GREAT  RESPONSIBILITY  ON  US  AT  HOME 

But  what  a  responsibility  this  entails  of  leading  good  men  and  good 
women  all  over  this  world  to  know  God,  and  to  know  what  their  mis- 
sion is  on  earth !  Fathers  and  mothers,  fellow  workers,  do  you  fully 
realize  today  what  it  means  to  assume  the  responsibility  of  carrying 
the  message  of  peace  and  good  will  to  all  men?  The  base  of  our  opera- 
tions must  be  here  at  home.  Neglect  your  duty  here  and  all  you  under- 
take abroad  will  be  compromised,  because  people  can  rightfully  ask : 
What  do  you  do  at  home?  What  life  are  you  living  at  home?  "What 
you  are,"  says  Emerson,  "sounds  so  loud  in  my  ears  I  cannot  hear  what 
you  say."  Every  elder  therefore  who  goes  abroad  to  preach  this  gospel 
must  first  live  the  gospel  to  the  best  of  his  ability,  and  have  a  conviction 
in  his  heart  that  he  is  preaching  the  truth.  True,  at  first  this  testimony 
may  be  somewhat  indefinite;  but  all  our  children  have  it  to  some  extent. 
They  breathe  it  as  they  breathe  the  mountain  air,  but  they  often  neglect 
to  define  it,  to  express  it  in  the  plane  of  consciousness.  It  is  the  duty 
of  presidents  of  stakes,  bishops  of  wards,  to  make  definite  in  the  minds 
of  missionaries  this  testimony  of  the  truth.  Through  study,  service, 
humility  and  prayer,  this  testimony  will  increase. 

QUALIFICATIONS  OF  MISSIONARIES  AND  THE  HOME 

Another  qualification  is  this :  Every  elder  should  be  a  Christian 
gentleman  always.  A  gentleman — who  is  he?  "Whoever  is  open" — 
nothing  to  hide,  no  downcast  look  because  of  the  consciousness  of  guilt ; 
"whoever  is  loyal" — loyal  to  the  truth,  to  virtue,  to  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom— "true,  of  humane  and  affable  demeanor,  honorable  himself  and 
in  his  judgment  of  others,  faithful  to  his  word  as  to  law,  and  faithful 
alike  to  God  and  to  man — such  a  man  is  a  true  gentleman,"  and  such  a 
man  the  elder  of  this  Church  should  be  who  goes  out  to  Christianize  the 
world. 

Brethren,  it  is  a  wonderful  school  to  which  we  send  our  young 
men  and  women — the  best  in  all  the  world.  I  weigh  that  sentence  care- 
fully— the  best  school  in  all  the  world !  But  it  must  never  be  considered 
a  reform  school  for  those  who  are  the  instructors  therein.  Keep  young 
men  who  need  reforming  at  home  until  they  attain  that  degree  of  lead- 
ership which  this  Church  requires. 

In  conclusion,  then,  with  the  abiding  assurance  in  our  hearts  that 
God  has  restored  the  true  gospel  of  Christ;  with  the  unshakable  con- 
viction that  he  desires  all  mankind  to  hear  this  gospel,  and^that  upon 
the  Church  rests  the  responsibility  of  proclaiming  it  to  the  world;  let 
us  first  conform  our  own  lives  to  gospel  standards,  first  set  in  order 
our  own  homes,  our  own  states,  and  then  continue  to  Christianize  the 
world;  for 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


107 


"Now  the  whole  world  hears. 
Or  shall  hear,— surely  shall  hear  at  the  last, 

Though  men  delay,  and  doubt,  and  faint  and  fall,  

That  promise  faithful :— 'Fear  not,  little  flock! 
It  is  your  Father's  will  and  joy  to  give 
To  you  the  Kingdom  !'  " 

Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  feel  very  keenly  the  responsibility  that  is  upon  me  this  moment, 
and  yet  I  am  glad  to  add  a  few  words  to  those  already  spoken.  We 
have  assembled  here  to  be  instructed,  and  I  suppose  it  is  true  in  the  case 
of  each  of  the  other  speakers,  as  I  know  it  is  with  me,  that  it  is  im- 
possible to  express  all  the  thoughts  that  arise  in  the  mind  as  we  listen 
to  these  services. 

PURPOSE  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  the  purpose  of  these  conferences  is  that 
we  who  assemble  here  may  hear  instruction.  Moreover  that  the  in- 
struction may  be  as  seed  planted  in  our  souls,  taking  root  and  growing, 
causing  reflections  in  our  minds.  No  doubt  when  we  return  to  our 
homes  we  enlarge  upon  the  things  we  have  heard,  and  through  faith 
and  study  gain  greater  knowledge,  and  thus  draw  nearer  to  our  heav- 
enly Father  in  the  truth.  If  we  do  not,  then  we  are  not  obtaining  the 
full  benefit  of  the  meetings  and  the  instructions  given  by  the  brethren. 
It  is  our  privilege  and  duty,  therefore,  to  study  and  enlarge  upon  the 
things  that  here  are  spoken. 

THE  FAITH  OF  YOUNG  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

,  Reference  has  been  made  by  some  of  the  speakers  to  sentiments 
uttered  by  those  not  of  our  faith,  and  who  are  not  kindly  disposed  to- 
wards the  Church  and  its  members,  to  the  effect  that  the  youth  of 
"Mormonism" — and  I  place  that  word  in  quotation  marks — are  not 
walking  in  the  footsteps  of  their  fathers,  and,  that  in  time  the  children 
will  depart  from  the  faith  and  accept  the  teachings  of  the  so-called 
"Christian"  sects  of  the  world.  As  one  of  the  fifth  generation  in  the 
Church  I  testify  that  I  know  this  is  not  true,  and  that  there  is  faith  in 
Israel  among  the  young  people. 

The  gospel  is,  as  the  Savior  said,  like  a  net  cast  in  the  sea,  which 
gathers  of  all  kinds,  and  naturally  there  will  be  some  that  will  have  to 
be  cast  out  because  they  are  not  good.  Without  a  doubt  there  are  those 
who  come  into  the  Church  with  ulterior  motives,  and  some  who  are 
always  weak  in  the  faith.  These  latter  may  become  discouraged  and 
depart  from  the  Church  because  they  have  not  understood  the  truth. 
Again,  we  know  it  to  be  a  fact  that  the  unrepentant  transgressor  will 
deny  the  faith  and  turn  away  in  a  spirit  of  bitterness.  However,  I  am 
assured,  and  I  have  that  assurance  in  my  heart  through  the  teachings 
I  have  received  from  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  from  the  inspiration 


108 


GENHR.  I L  C  VNFE  RENCE 


that  has  come  to  me  from  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  through  his  ser- 
vants, that  the  majority  of  this  people  will  always  remain  true. 

SIGNIFICANT  QUOTATION   FROM  DANIEL 

Elder  Whitney  this  afternoon  referred  to  the  prophesying  of  Dan- 
iel concerning  the  restored  gospel  and  the  Priesthood.  Let  me  present 
a  verse  that  Daniel  uttered  which  to  us,  and  to  all  the  world,  if  they  will 
receive  it,  is  very  significant : 

"And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom  • 
which  shall  never  he  destroyed ;  and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other  peo- 
ple, but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall 
stand  forever. 

"Forasmuch  as  thou  sawest  that  the  stone  was  cut  out  of  the  mountain 
without  hands,  and  that  it  break  in  pieces  the  iron,  the  brass,  the  clay,  the  silver, 
and  the  gold ;  the  great  God  hath  made  it  known  to  the  king  what  shall  come  to 
pass  hereafter;  and  the  dream  is  certain,  and  the  interpretation  thereof  sure." 

That  is  the  statement  of  an  ancient  prophet  concerning  this  latter 
day  work — this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  which  has  now  been  restored, 
and  the  organization  the  Lord  has  established,  in  other  words,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  will  never  be  destroyed. 
It  shall  not  be  given  to  other  people.  While  many  will  come  into  the 
Church,  and  some  will  go  out  of  it,  the  great  majority  of  its  members 
will  remain  true  and  faithful  to  the  truth,  and  the  Kingdom  is  bound 
to  grow  until  jt  shall  fill  the  earth. 

WORLDLY  RELIGIOUS  SYSTEMS 

I  think  that  the  Protestant  ministers,  to  whom  Elder  McKay  re- 
ferred— Mr.  Parrish  and  Mr.  Fosdick — have  spoken  better  than  they 
knew  in  their  arraignment  of  the  Protestant  world.  Not  only  do  their 
remarks  apply  to  Protestantism,  but  to  all  creeds,  sects  and  parties  that 
are  not  recognized  of  the  Lord,  for  he  has  decreed  that  in  this  dispen- 
sation of  the  fulness  of  times  he  would  break  in  pieces  and  bring  to 
naught  every  work  that  js  not  of  him.  He  declared,  through  Paul,  that 
it  was  "according  to  his  good  pleasure,  which  he  hath  purposed  in  him- 
self, that  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  he  might  gather 
together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven  and  which 
are  on  earth ;  even  in  him."  And  as  he  has  decreed,  so  he  will  fulfil. 
All  things  that  pertain  to  the  salvation  of  man  have  been  restored  in  this 
dispensation  preparatory  to  the  coming  of  Christ  and  the  setting  up  of 
his  kingdom  with  absolute  authority  over  all  the  earth.  When  that 
time  comes,  and  Christ  reigns,  all  that  now  exists  contrary  to  that 
Kingdom  and  in  conflict  with  it  must  come  to  an  end.  If  people  are 
engaged  in  works  which  are  not  approved  of  the  Lord,  the  earlier  they 
come  to  an  understanding  of  the  truth  and  come  out  of  them  and  learn 
to  serve  the  Lord,  the  better  it  is  for  them.  It  is  far  better  to  know  the 
truth  and  forsake  error  than  to  remain  in  the  systems  of  the  world  which 
are  not  approved  by  the  Lord  and  therefore  in  due  time  must  cease  tc 
exist.  That  day  is  near  at  hand,  and  because  of  it  the  Lord  has  sent 
forth  his  servants  in  the  world  proclaiming  his  gospel  and  crying  re- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


109 


pentance,  that  all  who  will  may  hear  and  escape.  It  is  within  the  reach 
of  all  who  are  willing  to  forsake  error,  to  know  the  truth  and  the 
established  work  of  the  Lord. 

THE  ENEMY  SHALL  NOT  OVERCOME 

When  the  Priesthood  was  restored  to  Joseph  Smith  by  John  the 
Baptist  (I  speak  now  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood)  the  promise  was  made 
that  it  should  remain  on  the  earth  and  should  not  be  taken  away.  So 
we  look  for  the  Church  with  all  its  power  to  grow  and  develop  until 
all  the  righteous  are  gathered  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  For  it  is  the 
will  of  our  Father  that  all  who  are  willing  to  serve  him  and  seek  light 
and  truth  shall  have  the  opportunity.  In  a  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  January  2,  1831,  before  the  Church  was  one 
year  old,  the  Lord  said : 

"Wherefore,  gird  up  your  loins,  and  be  prepared.  Behold,  the  kingdom  is 
yours,  and  the  enemy  shall  not  overcome." 

I  have  faith  in  that.  He  has  given  to  us  the  kingdom.  He  has 
made  us  the  promise  that  the  enemy  of  the  kingdom  shall  not  overcome. 
We  may  have  trouble.  We  have  had  trouble.  We  may  meet  with  op- 
position, but  that  opposition  shall  fail  in  its  endeavor  to  destroy  the 
work  of  God. 

Now  the  Lord  has  said  something  more  in  the  verses  which  follow 
the  one  I  have  given  you,  and  these  are  very  significant  and  very  timely  : 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  ye  are  clean,  but  not  all ;  and  there  is  none  else 
with  whom  I  am  well  pleased." 

THERE  ARE  SOME  TARES  IN  THE  CHURCH 

The  Lord  could  not  say  he  was  well  pleased  with  all  the  members 
of  the  Church.  For,  even  then,  as  now,  there  were  some  in  the  Church 
who  were  not  clean.  Nevertheless  he  did  declare  this  Church  was  the 
only  one  with  which  he  was  well  pleased.  He  could  not  say  that  of  the 
systems  and  organizations  extant  which  will  not  hearken  to  his  word 
and  obey  his  commandments,  but  set  up  doctrines  of  their  own,  con- 
trary to  his  laws  and  ordinances.  It  is  only  natural,  since  he  did  estab- 
lish his  Church,  to  speak  of  it  in  the  terms  which  he  did  and  while  ex- 
pressing satisfaction  with  the  organization  as  a  whole  yet  point  out 
forcibly  the  fact  that  there  were  in  the  Church  some  tares  guilty  of  sin. 
After  making  this  statement  he  further  says: 

"For  all  flesh  is  corrupted  before  me ;  and  the  powers  of  darkness  prevail 
upon  the  earth,  among  the  children  of  men,  in  the  presence  of  all  the  hosts  of 
heaven — 

"Which  causeth  silence  to  reign,  and  all  eternity  is  pained,  and  the  angels 
are  waiting  the  great  command  to  reap  down  the  earth,  to  gather  the  tares  that 
they  may  be  burned  ;  and,  behold,  the  enemy  is  combined." 

GREAT  THINGS  TO  TAKE  PLACE  IN  THIS  AGE 

So  the  Lord  points  out  the  fact  that  great  things  are  to  take  place 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  earth  in  this  day.  The  gospel  has  been  restored,  and  the  king- 
dom given  to  his  Saints  according  to  the  prophecy  of  Daniel.  It  is  not 
again  to  be  removed,  destroyed,  or  given  to  other  people,  and  in  his 
own  way  and  time  he  is  going  to  break  down  all  other  systems,  that  his 
kingdom  may  prevail  and  that  he  may  come  and  reign  as  Lord  of  lords 
and  King  of  kings  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth. 

THE  RESTORED  CHURCH  NOT  TO  BE  REMOVED 

Again  in  reference  to  this  same  matter,  which  is  in  harmony  with 
that  which  we  have  heard  this  afternoon  from  the  other  speakers,  the 
Lord  said : 

"And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  rest  of  my  servants,  go  ye  forth  as  your 
circumstances  shall  permit,  in  your  several  callings,  unto  the  great  and  notable 
cities  and  villages,  reproving  the  world  in  righteousness  of  all  their  unrighteous 
and  ungodly  deeds,  setting  forth  clearly  and  understandingly  the  desolation  of 
abomination  in  the  last  days. 

"For,  with  you  saith  the  Lord  Almighty,  I  will  rend  their  kingdoms ;  I  will 
not  only  shake  the  earth,  but  the  starry  heavens  shall  tremble. 

"For  I,  the  Lord,  have  put  forth  my  hand  to  exert  the  powers  of  heaven ; 
ye  cannot  see  it  now,  yet  a  little  while  and  ye  shall  see  it,  and  know  that  T  am, 
and  that  I  will  come  and  reign  with  my  people. 

"I  am  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  beginning  and  the  end.  Amen." 

So  again  in  these  modern  scriptures  the  Lord  has  called  attention 
to  the  fact  that  he  is  going  to  destroy  systems  and  organizations  and 
combinations  that  are  false.  And  how  is  he  going  to  do  it?  By  giving 
their  members  the  truth,  if  they  will  receive  it ;  by  giving  them  the  priv- 
ilege of  coming  out  of  those  organizations  to  receive  the  truth  and  have 
every  opportunity  to  come  into  his  kingdom,  for  his  hand  is  out- 
stretched ready  to  greet  them.  If  they  will  not  come ;  if  they  will  not 
receive  his  message,  then  of  course  they  must  fall  with  their  systems. 
Truth  will  prevail ;  truth  will  stand  when  all  else  is  removed,  and  it  is 
destined  to  cover  the  face  of  the  earth. 

FALSE  SYSTEMS  TO  BE  DESTROYED 

In  one  of  these  scriptures  I  have  presented,  the  Lord  said  the 
angels  are  waiting  to  reap  down  the  earth.  I  heard  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  make  the  statement,  in  this  very  spot  where  I  now  stand,  at 
a  conference  of  the  Church,  that  these  angels  had  been  sent  forth  on 
their  mission  to  reap  down  the  earth,  to  tie  in  bundles  the  tares  for  the 
burning  and  to  gather  the  Saints  of  God.  I  heard  him  make  this  state- 
ment on  several  occasions.  Moreover  he  said  from  that  time  forth,  and 
that  was  about  the  year  1894,  earthquakes,  pestilence,  war,  famine, 
plague,  and  other  commotions  among  both  men  and  the  elements  would 
increase  and  continue  until  the  coming  of  Christ. 

In  the  revelation  known  to  us  as  the  "revelation  on  war,"  the  Lord 
declared  that  he  had  decreed  the  overthrow  of  nations,  "until  the  con- 
sumption decreed  hath  made  a  full  end  of  all  nations."  In  that  day, 
when  this  shall  come  to  pass,  the  nation  set  up  by  the  Lord  must  reign 
supreme  and  all  other  powers,  kingdoms,  organizations  and  societies 
shall  pass  away,  for  so  it  is  decreed. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


111 


ADVICE  AND  ADMONITION  TO  THE  SAINTS 

Now,  just  a  word  or  two  in  conclusion,  as  advice  and  admonition 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  I  do  not 
feel  that  we  ought  to  sit  down  and  take  things  easy,  to  partake  of  all 
the  sins  and  follies  of  the  world  and  their  systems  and  do  just  as  they 
do  in  all  respects.  We  should  strictly  observe  the  Sabbath  day.  We 
should  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We  cannot  afford  to  discard  the 
doctrine  of  prayer.  If  we  turn  away  from  these  principles  which  mean 
so  much  to  us,  we  cannot  be  approved  of  the  Lord.  The  world  is  turn- 
ing from  these  fundamental  principles.  They  do  not  mean  to  the  or- 
dinary individual  in  the  world  what  they  used  to  mean.  Many  pro- 
fessed ministers  of  Christ  are  making  light  of  these  sacred  things ;  not 
all  of  them,  for  there  are  yet  some  who  are  devout  and  sincere  in  the 
things  they  are  teaching.  However,  a  great  many  professed  teachers 
of  the  gospel  have  discarded  the  fundamental  truth  upon  which  sal- 
vation is  based.  We  should  not  pin  our  faith  in  men,  or  in  their  phil- 
osophies and  their  worldly  teachings.  The  world  is  full  of  doctrines 
and  vain  philosophy  diametrically  opposed  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
And  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  follow  the  ad- 
monition the  Lord  has  given  us  to  stand  in  holy  places  and  be  not 
moved,  and  be  just  a  little  more  firm  in  the  keeping  of  his  command- 
ments. We  should  make  a  more  careful  search  of  the  Scriptures  and 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord. 

We  have  no  business  violating  the  Sabbath  day.  In  the  Priest- 
hood conferences,  which  have  been  held  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  during  the 
past  three  months,  we  have  put  a  great  deal  of  stress  upon  this  prin- 
ciple. We  have  been  teaching  the  people  the  necessity  of  observing  the 
Sabbath  day  and  keeping  it  holy.  I  regret  very  much  that,  even  in  com- 
munities of  Latter-day  Saints,  this  doctrine  is  not  looked  upon  as  it 
ought  to  be  by  some ;  that  we  have  those  among  us  who  seem  to  feel 
that  it  is  perfectly  right  to  follow  the  custom  of  the  world  in  this  re- 
gard. They  are  partakers  of  the  ideas  and  notions  of  the  world  in  vio- 
lation of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  But  if  we  do  this  the  Lord 
will  hold  us  accountable,  and  we  cannot  violate  his  word  and  receive  the 
blessings  of  the  faithful. 

We  cannot  afford  to  discard  the  doctrine  of  prayer.  We  should 
be  teaching  our  children  in  our  homes  to  pray ;  we  should  pray  in  secret, 
and  in  our  hearts,  and'before  our  families.  Without  the  spirit  of  prayer 
we  cannot  please  the  Lord ;  we  cannot  stand  before  him  in  favor  if  we 
are  not  willing  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in  all  things  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments.  These  are  the  words  he  has  given  us  by  revelation. 

NECESSARY  TO  WALK  IN  THE  FULL  LIGHT  OF  TRUTH 

We  cannot  afford  not  to  pay  our  tithing,  nor  can  we  afford  to  turn 
away  from  any.  other  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  fully  endorse  the  re- 
mark made  by  one  of  the  speakers  here  yesterday,  that  it  is  necessary 
for  us  to  walk  in  the  full  light  of  the  truth,  not  in  part  of  the  truth  only. 
I  haven't  the  privilege  of  discarding  some  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 


112 


GENER.  IL  CONFERENCE 


pel  and  believing  others,  and  then  feel  that  1  am  entitled  to  the  full  bless- 
ings of  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  Jf  we  want 
exaltation,,  if  we  want  the  place  which  the  Lord  has  prepared  for  those 
who  are  just  and  true,  then  we  must  be  willing  to  walk  in  the  full  light 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  keep  all  the  commandments.  We 
cannot  say  that  some  of  them  are  small  and  insignificant  and  therefore 
the  Lord  will  not  care  if  we  violate  them.  We  are  commanded  to  live 
by  every  word  that  proceeds  from  the  mouth  of  God.  "Why  call  ye  me 
Lord,  Lord,"  he  says,  "and  do  not  the  things  that  I  say?"  So  he  spoke 
to  his  disciples  when  he  was  with  them,  and  he  has  also  spoken  to  us 
in  this  day  in  a  similar  way,  saying:  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  com- 
mandments." 

I  pray  that  we  may  all  walk  in  the  light  of  the  truth  as  it  has  been 
revealed  to  us,  observing  to  do  all  things  required  by  the  Lord,  which, 
through  our  faithfulness  and  perseverence,  will  insure  our  exaltation 
in  the  Kingdom  of  God.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

INTRODUCING  STAKE  PRESIDENTS  \ 

I  have  been  calling,  from  time  to  time,  for  brief  remarks,  not  to 
exceed  five  or  six  minutes,  from  some  of  the  stake  presidents.  All  of 
the  stake  presidents,  with  the  exception  of  one,  who  happened  to  be  ab- 
sent, have  had  the  privilege  of  either  opening  or  closing  our  meetings 
by  prayer.  But  there  have  been  so  many  changes  made  of  late  in  stake 
presidencies,  that  there  are  about  thirty-six  of  them  at  present  who 
have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  speaking.  We  will  now  call  on  some 
of  those  who  have  been  longest  in  office,  asking  them  to  occupy  five 
or  six  minutes. 

ELDER  C.  ALVIN  ORME 

President  of  the  Tooele  Stoke  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  As  I  approach  this  position  there  is  a 
scriptural  saying  which  comes  to  my  mind,  to  the  effect  that,  "The 
place  whereon  thou  standest  is  holy  ground." 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  that  we  have  heard  during  this  con- 
ference. As  I  came  into  the  building  yesterday  morning,  President  Grant 
was  delivering  his  opening  address,  and  I  rejoiced  in  the  testimony 
which  he  had  in  his  heart  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  necessity  of  obedience  unto  that  which  has  been 
revealed  by  the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — the  sacred 
ordinances  of  the  House  of  the  Lord,  in  the  temple  marriages  and 
other  ceremonies,  and  in  the  testimonies  of  the  healing  power  that  has 
been  in  the  Church  since  its  organization.  That  power  which  char- 
acterized the  ancient  Church,  and  the  power  and  authority  given  unto 
the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  during  his  ministry,  to  heal  the 


ELDER  C.  ALVIN  ORME 


113 


sick,  to  open  the  eyes  of  the  blind,  and  cause  the  lame  to  walk,  is  in  this 
Church.  I  add  my  testimony,  to  those  which  have  been  given  during 
this  conference,  that  those  principles  and  powers  and  gifts  are  with  the 
Church,  and  that  we  enjoy  them.  As  men  and  women  in  Israel  who 
have  had  these  precious  truths  and  gifts  given  to  us,  may  we  treasure 
them,  prize  them  highly,  and  live  by  the  revelations  which  God  our 
Father  has  given  for  our  salvation.  May  we  walk  in  his  paths  and  at- 
tain the  degree  of  glory  and  eternal  life  that  he  has  promised  unto  the 
faithful,  which  all  who  have  been  baptized  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  and  who  have  had  hands  laid  on  them  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  being  born  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  shall  have 
by  living  according  to  that  which  God  has  revealed.  I  bear  testimony 
tc  these  things  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BYRON  O.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Roosevelt  Stake  of  Zion 

My  (tear  brethren  and  sisters:  This  is  certainly  a  surprise  to  me, 
and  I  assure  you  that  I  am  in  need  of  your  sympathy  and  faith,  that  the 
time  I  may  occupy  may  be  for  our  mutual  benefit  and  blessing. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  all  the  testimonies  which  have  been  borne  dur- 
ing this  conference.  The  inspiration  of  the  Lord  has  been  with  those 
who  have  spoken,  and  1  am  sure  that  the  Saints  who  have  been  gath- 
ered together  here  have  found  joy  in  listening  to  them. 

From  my  youth  I  have  been  taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
In  my  early  youth  my  father  paid  little  attention- to  the  Church  and  its 
organization,  but  during  all  that  period  of  some  seventeen  years,  I  have 
heard  my  mother  repeatedly  say  she  never  ceased  to  pray  that  he  might 
yield  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  accept  the  same  of 
his  own  volition.  Though  he  was  born  of  Latter-day  Saint  parents,  as 
was  the  case  with  many  "Mormon"  youths  at  that  time,  he  went  into 
neighboring  states  and  places,  and  for  a  time  seemed  to  lose  the  faith, 
but  later  accepted  it  and  has  been  true  to  it  ever  since. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  was  born  of  goodly  par- 
ents, that  through  them  a  testimony  of  the  truth  has  come  to  me.  I  do 
not  hesitate  to  think  that  perhaps  it  would  have  been  difficult  for  me 
to  accept  the  gospel,  had  I  been  found  in  the  world  as  many  peo- 
ple have  been.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunities  that  have  come  to  me,  in 
the  responsibilities  that  have  been  given  to  me,  because  out  of  them  I 
have  found  joy  and  satisfaction,  and  I  have  seen  in  my  brethren  a  desire 
for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  the  people  about  them.  In  the  councils 
of  my  brethren,  into  which  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  being  called,  and 
in  joining  with  them,  I  have  never  seen  aught,  nor  heard  aught  that  was 
not  good,  never  any  manifestation  or  desire,  or  intent  to  injure  any,  but 
always  the  spirit  of  service  and  consideration,  that  those  who  make  up 
the  Church  and  those  not  of  the  Church  should  be  benefited  and  blessed. 
Nothing  but  good  has  ever  been  evidenced  in  their  intent  and  their  pur- 
poses. To  these  testimonies  also  have  come  the  testimonies  of  the 
Spirit,  and  in  trial  and  in  responsibilities  that  I  have  borne  I  have  seen 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


evidences  of  the  truth  of  this  work.  I  do  not  doubt  it.  I  have  never 
had  any  doubt  as  to  the  integrity  of  the  men  who  have  been  called  of  the 
Lord  to  lead  this  work. 

I  see  in  the  scriptures,  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church,  in  the 
writings  of  those  whose  minds  have  been  drawn  out  to  write  of  the 
things  of  the  Lord,  and  teach  the  people,  that  which  is  for  our  good.  I 
rejoice  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  To  me  it  is  an  indisputable  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  this  work.  Its  very  existence  demonstrates  to  me,  together 
with  a  knowledge  of  its  coming  forth,  that  it  is  of  the  Lord.  So  also 
with  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  The  thought  came  to  me  while  some  of 
the  brethren  were  speaking  this  morning  that  it  is  a  strange  thing  that 
the  records  which  were  found  seemingly  so  mysteriously,  that  made  up 
part  of  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  should  find  their  way  into  the 
hands  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  yet,  if  the  Lord  had  a  servant  on 
earth,  if  he  had  a  prophet  in  existence,  isn't  it  only  natural  that  it  should 
find  its  way  into  his  hands,  and  should  be  published  to  the  world? 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  peace 
of  the  gospel  has  come  into  my  soul,  and  I  am  satisfied  without  any 
doubt  whatever  of  its  truth.  I  see  in  its  principles  a  philosophy  that 
would  serve  the  human  race,  principles  that  will  mean  our  salvation 
temporally  and  spiritually;  and  I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  little  service  that  I  can  render,  the  little  value  that  I  may  be  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  myself,  in  all  the  things  that  I  may  be  able 
to  do,  and  that  the  Lord  may  help  me  to  do,  is  of  little  consequence  un- 
less the  Lord  helps  me  and  helps  others  to  understand  me  and  my  en- 
deavors to  keep  his  commandments  and  to  serve  in  this  work.  It  seems 
to  me  that  the  frailties  of  human  kind,  the  weaknesses  of  human  nature, 
and  the  littleness  of  men,  particularly  of  myself,  grow  upon  me  from 
time  to  time,  and  I  recognize  how  much  I  need  the  blessing  and  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and  his  help  to  uphold  me  and  guide  me  in  the  work  that  I 
am  called  upon  to  do. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  with  satisfaction  and  with  joy,  and  with 
a  continued  testimony  of  his  goodness  unto  us.  I  thank  him  for  these 
things  that  have  come  into  my  life,  for  the  privileges  and  blessings  that 
have  come  to  me  through  the  gospel,  and  I  do  it,  and  bear  my  testimony 
unto  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  WAYNE  H.  REDD 

President  of  the  San  Juan  Stake  of  Zion 

The  thought  of  standing  before  this  vast  audience  and  speaking  to 
the  Saints,  and  to  those  who  may  be  listening  in  over  the  radio,  almost 
overawes  me.  But  I  am  happy  in  the  thought  that  I  am  associated  with 
this  class  of  people.  I  feel  that  the  greatest  knowledge  in  this  world 
is  a  knowledge  of  God,  for  the  Savior  said  to  know  Jesus  Christ  is  life 
eternal ;  and  I  feel  the  greatest  thing  that  anyone  can  do  in  this  world 
is  to  conquer  himself  and  to  bring  himself  into  line  with  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 


ELDER  WAYNE  H.  REDD 


115 


The  Lord  in  his  goodness  and  mercy  to  me  gave  me  a  testimony, 
while  yet  in  my  teens,  and  as  I  have  labored  in  the  Church  from  that 
day  to  this,  it  has  grown  brighter,  until  I  feel  that  I  know  that  the  gos- 
pel is  true,  whether  I  know  anything  else  in  the  world  or  not. 

I  have  a  great  many  things  for  which  to  be  thankful,  as  one  who 
comes  from  the  land  of  magnificent  distances  and  the  home  of  the  noble 
red  men.  I  feel  that  the  thing  that  we  have  most  to  be  thankful  for, 
that  has  happened  in  our  neighborhood  in  recent  years,  is  the  fact  that 
the  Indians  who  have  harrassed  the  people  in  that  section  since  the  set- 
tlement of  that  country  a  few  years  ago,  are  rounded  up,  and  the  gov- 
ernment has  come  there  and  taken  charge  of  them  and  settled  them,  and 
has  chosen  one  of  our  people  to  teach  them  how  to  live  better.  One  of 
our  returned  elders  is  the  man  who  is  looking  after  them.  The  govern- 
ment is  now  putting  their  children  in  school  and  they  are  fed  and 
clothed,  and  it  is  not  necessary  for  them  to  pillage  the  settlers  and  to 
harrass  the  women  and  children. 

The  Lord  is  good  to  his  people,  in  every  section  where  they  turn 
unto  him  and  serve  him.  The  greatest  desire  of  my  life  is  that  I  may 
be  worthy  of  the  confidence  that  my  brethren  have  imposed  in  me.  I 
have  every  confidence  in  those  who  preside  over  me.  Never  in  my  life 
have  I  seen  anything  in  their  conduct  that  would  cause  me  to  lose  con- 
fidence in  them.  I  know  that  the  Church  of  Christ  is  growing,  and  that 
those  who  are  seeking  after  the  Lord  may  find  him.  I  have  said  a 
great  many  times  that  I  think  it  is  about  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world 
to  know  that  the  Lord  lives,  if  men  will  be  honest,  truthful,  virtuous, 
attend  to  their  prayers,  and  live  a  Christ-like  life.  I  want  to  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  if  our  boys  and  girls  will  but  function  in  the 
organizations  of  the  Church,  take  part  therein,  and  live  clean  lives,  they 
will  know  that  the  Lord  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  resur- 
rection is  a  reality,  the  most  wonderful  knowledge  in  all  the  world. 

May  we  all  be  true  to  the  covenants  we  have  made  with  one  an- 
other, and  to  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  which  is  implanted  within 
our  hearts ;  and  be  obedient  in  all  things,  that  we  may  be  saved  in  his 
kingdom,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  general  priesthood  meeting 
would  be  held  Monday  evening  at  7  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

Benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Geo.  W.  Green,  former  counselor 
in  the  presidency  of  the  Lethbridge  stake  of  Zion. 

Meeting  adjourned  till  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Tuesday,  April  5,  1927. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  conference  reassembled  on  Tuesday  morning,  April  5,  1927, 
at  10  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening  hymn,  "O  say 
what  is  truth?"  which  was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  R.  Sheppard, 
president  of  the  Logan  temple. 

A  duet,  "O  God,  our  help  in  ages  past,"  was  sung  by  Arlene  Davis 
and  Hyrum  J.  Christensen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

Words  fail  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  adequately  to  express  my 
feelings,  in  attending  this  conference.  1  have  been  thrilled  by  the  testi- 
monies which  have  been  borne  in  my  hearing"  by  the  presiding  author- 
ities of  the  Church. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  given  unto  me  to  render  serv- 
ice in  the  mission  field.  That  service  has  brought  into  my  life  a  joy 
that  is  more  than  pleasure,  a  joy  that  is  greater  than  happiness.  It  is  a 
privilege  to  attend  the  sessions  of  conference,  held  here,  semi-annually, 
and  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  these  gatherings,  to  worship  with  you 
before  the  Lord.  "Man,"  says  one  great  philosopher,  ''is  incurably  re- 
ligious.   The  desire  to  worship  is  inherent,  inborn." 

We  read  frequently  in  the  public  press  that  there  are  some  fifty 
million  people  in  the  United  States  identified  with  the  various  churches 
in  this  country ;  that  there  are  between  fifty  and  sixty  million  people 
who  are  not  identified  or  affiliated  with  any  church  organization.  There 
is,  however,  a  tremendous  amount  of  personal  religion  in  the  world. 
I  find  in  my  association  with  the  people  that  are  not  identified  with 
any  of  these  organizations  that  they  are  deeply  religious,  many  of  them, 
that  they  think  for  themselves,  and  it  is  from  this  class  that  the  majority 
of  our  converts,  in  the  Western  States  mission,  come. 

I  asked  a  prominent  clergyman  in  the  state  of  Colorado,  a  short 
time  ago,  what  his  greatest  problems  were.  He  answered  me  that  the 
three  great  characteristics  of  present-day  church  life  are,  our  intense 
triviality,  the  uncertainty  of  our  position,  and  our  complacency,  na- 
tional, civic  and  religious.  Said  he,  "We  have  sociability  instead  of 
sacraments,  statistics  instead  of  salvation."  I  assured  him  that  we  were 
not  so  situated,  and  stressed  the  fact  that  we  were  not  uncertain  with 
regard  to  our  position  on  fundamental  doctrines  of  the  Church.  The 
burden  of  our  message  to  the  world  has  been  that  God  has  spoken  and 
that  he  has  delivered  his  word  and  restored  his  gospel  anew  to  the 
children  of  earth,  in  the  nineteenth  century.    We  have  renewed  the 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


117 


promise  that  has  come  flown  through  the  ages  from  the  Master's  lips, 
that  if  men  will  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments  and  yield  obe- 
dience to  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  they  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  is  of  God,  or  whether  we  speak  of  ourselves. 

I  asked  a  lady  a  few  days  ago  why  she  was  not  identified  with 
any  of  the  churches  of  the  world,  and  she  replied,  "Because  in  my  in- 
vestigation of  the  various  systems  of  religion,  I  have  discovered  so 
many  theological  contradictions."  We  invited  her  to  make  a  thor- 
ough investigation  of  the  claims  made  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
assured  her  that  she  would  find  no  theological  contradictions ;  but,  on 
the  contrary,  she  would  discover  that  the  Church  is  built  upon  a  solid 
foundation ;  that  it  is  built  upon  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  and  upon  the 
foundation  of  apostles  and  prophets,  the  Savior  of  the  world  being 
the  chief  cornerstone;  and  that  she  would  find  peace  to  her  soul  if 
she  would  obey  the  commandments  of  God  and  the  fundamental  doc- 
trines that  are  taught  by  the  Church.  She  has  later  assured  me,  hav- 
ing come  into  the  Church,  that  she  has  had  greater  joy  in  the  few 
months  she  has  been  identified  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  than  in  all  her  experience  up  to  joining  the  Church. 

There  is  only  one  way  that  we  may  be  satisfied  of  the  truth,  and 
that  is  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  promised  to 
every  individual  who  obeys  the  gospel  of  the  Master.  The  clergyman 
to  whom  I  have  referred  made  this  statement:  "Christ  is  the  supreme 
issue  confronting  the  world  at  the  present  time."  Our  declaration  to 
the  world  is  that  they  may  know  the  Christ  if  they  obey  his  gospel. 
Through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  they  may  be  assured  of  his  real- 
ity, and  the  efficacy  of  his  atonement  in  redeeming  the  world.  He  de- 
clared to  his  disciples  that  all  power  was  given  him  in  heaven  and  in 
earth  and  instructed  them  to  go  out  and  preach  the  gospel  of  repent- 
ance, baptizing  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  pf  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  teaching  people  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  he  had 
commanded  them.  He  had  said  to  his  disciples  that  no  man  knoweth 
the  Father  save  the  Son.  Neither  knoweth  any  man  the  Son,  save  the 
Father,  and  him  to  whom  he  will  reveal  him.  He  invited  men  and 
women  everywhere  to  come  unto  him,  and  to  take  upon  themselves  his 
yoke,  for  he  said,  "My  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light."  Ampli- 
fying the  statement  of  the  Master,  the  Apostle  Paul  declared  that  no 
man,  speaking  by  the  Spirit,  calleth  Jesus  accursed,  and  no  man  can  say 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  affirm  that  the  Church  which  we  represent  out  in  the  world, 
this  Church,  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  organized  it ;  he  owns 
it,  and  it  is  his\  and  the  organizations  represented  here  today  are  the 
instrumentality  through  which  our  Father  may  promulgate  the  glorious 
truths  of  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

1  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know, 
as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  these  things  are  true,  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  those  who  have  been 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


associated  with  him  are  men  of  God  and  are  the  mouthpiece  of  our 
Father  unto  the  children  of  men. 

Reference  was  made  to  the  fact  that  some  of  the  younger  genera- 
tion would  deny  the  faith.  I  call  to  mind  that  we  have  in  the  Western 
States  mission  at  least  one  who  was  associated  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  Nauvoo.  I  attended  a  meeting  in  a  small  town  where  he  re- 
sides and  listened  to  his  testimony.  I  listened  to  the  testimony  of  his 
son  and  his  grandson,  and  his  great-grandson,  and  every  one  of  them 
testified  that  he  knew  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God.  The 
man  who  had  been  an  eye  and  ear  witness  to  the  power  that  rested  upon 
the  prophet  of  the  nineteenth  century  was  no  more  sure  of  his  position 
than  the  youngest  man  who  bore  his  testimony,  because  he  had  re- 
ceived that  witness  from  the  Holy  Spirit. 

May  God  help  us  to  appreciate  our  responsibility  and  to  render 
service  in  the  cause  of  Christ,  that  the  world  may  be  left  without  excuse 
in  the  day  of  judgment,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  of  the  Northcentral  States  Mission 

I  sincerely  desire  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  I  may  be  inspired 
by  that  same  spirit  which  has  characterized  this  conference  thus  far. 

One  of  the  ancient  prophets,  as  he  saw  in  prophetic  vision  the  in- 
troduction of  this  great  work,  said  that  it  was  to  be  a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder.  It  is  not  only  to  be  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  in 
one  way,  but  in  every  way. 

Another  prophet,  in  speaking  of  the  ministry  of  this  great  work, 
said  that  in  the  latter  days  the  Lord  would  gather  his  Israel,  one  of  a 
city  and  two  of  a  family  and  bring  them  to  Zion,  where  he  would  give 
them  pastors  after  his  own  heart,  who  would  teach  them  with  knowledge 
and  with  understanding. 

When  the  Redeemer  was  in  the  world  he  chose  twelve  pastors. 
What  was  the  status  of  these  pastors?  Certainly  they  were  men  after 
God's  own  heart.  The  Lord  passed  by  men  like  Gamaliel  who  educated 
one  of  those  pastors,  and  at  whose  feet  one  of  those  pastors  listened 
and  was  taught ;  passed  by  Herod  and  all  of  the  mighty  men,  so  far  as 
worldly  wisdom  was  concerned,  and  went  out  into  Galilee  and  chose 
ordinary  fishermen.  He  took  those  twelve  men  away  to  the  mount, 
and  said  to  them:  "You  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you, 
and  ordained  you,  and  I  give  you  power."  That  power  which  he  gave 
those  men  afterwards  concerned  the  whole  world.  Even  the  Roman 
Empire  was  shaken  to  its  foundations,  for  they  defied  it  when  they 
had  Peter  and  John  before  them  as  prisoners,  and  charged  them  that 
they  should  not  preach  Jesus  Christ  any  more  in  Jerusalem.  The  sim- 
ple answer  of  Peter  and  John  was :  "Shall  we  obey  man  or  God  ?'"  and 
the  Roman  Empire  said:  "If  ye  do  not  obey  man,  we  will  incarcerate 
you  with  chains  and  ball."  And  they  put  them  into  prison,  but  that 
power  which  God  had  given  them  released  them  from  that  prison  and 
they  went  back  and  said,    W e  are  preaching  things  that  we  know ;  we 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


119 


are  not  preaching  that  which  we  have  believed  or  which  we  think  is  cor- 
rect. We  are  preaching  that  thing  which  we  do  know.  They  knew  not 
only  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  but  they  knew  that  his  doctrines  were  of 
God,  by  the  same  power  that  they  knew  he  was  the  Christ.  They  knew 
that  his  doctrines  contained  the  elements  of  salvation. 

Now  what  kind  of  pastors  has  the  Lord  raised  up  in  this  day  and 
generation  ?  What  of  these  forty  thousand  men  who  have  been  sent 
forth  to  preach  this  gospel  from  the  beginning  of  this  Church,  in  1830? 
Where  were  they  educated  ?  Where  were  they  trained  ?  Whence  came 
their  knowledge?  They  were  men  after  God's  own  heart,  and  one  of 
the  things  that  characterized  these  ministers  was  that  they  went  out 
and  declared  the  things  which  they  knew.  Not  from  book-learning ; 
not  from  scholastic  education,  but  by  the  same  power  that  Peter  knew, 
and  they  knew  by  the  same  power  that  Peter  knew,  and  they  declared 
as  Paul  did  when  he  said,  ""Brethren,  I  come  not  to  you  with  the  wis- 
dom of  men,  nor  the  learning  of  the  world,  but  with  the  revelations  of 
Jesus  Christ."  And  these  young  men  and  women  have  faith.  They 
have  been  largely  young  men  and  women  who  have  gone  out  into  the 
world — men  and  women  after  God's  own  heart.  And  they  have  borne 
witness,  and  that  witness  has  been  effective  because  it  has  been  inspired. 

Not  long  ago  in  our  mission  one  of  our  young  lady  missionaries, 
only  twenty  years  of  age,  was  invited  to  dine  with  a  sectarian  preacher. 
As  soon  as  the  luncheon  was  over  he  proceeded  to  ridicule  her  and  her 
religion.  She  was  young  in  the  field,  and  not  able  to  cope  with  him  and 
his  learning,  and  after  he  had  spoken  at  some  length  in  ridicule  of  the 
message  that  she  had  been  sent  forth  to  proclaim,  she  simply  gathered 
her  wraps  and  hat,  and  stood  at  his  door,  and  in  the  majesty  of  her 
young  womanhood,  and  in  the  power  of  her  calling,  she  bore  testimony 
that  she  knew  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God.  The  wife  pushed 
her  husband  aside  and  went  over  and  put  her  arms  around  the  girl  and 
hugged  her  and  said,  "That  is  the  kind  of  testimony ;  that  is  the  spirit 
that  will  win  the  world." 

God  has  chosen  pastors  after  his  own  heart,  and  he  has  planted  in 
the  hearts  of  those  pastors  an  individual  testimony  that  God  lives.  Is 
it  not  true  all  over  the  missions?  Ask  these  mission  presidents,  if  the 
young  men  and  women  who  come  to  them,  many  times  without  this 
testimony,  do  not  in  a  few  months  time  stand  up  and  say,  "I  know  the 
Church  is  true."  That  is  the  thing  the  world  needs  today— men  and 
women  who  know  whereof  they  speak,  and  who  are  able  to  back  up 
what  they  say  by  the  prophecies  and  teachings  of  the  prophets  of  God. 

One  elder  said  not  long  ago:  "We  want  to  preach  the  things  the 
Lord  has  revealed,  and  then  go  to  these  scriptures  and  prove  that  that 
is  the  thing  he  revealed  in  ages  past." 

This  is  the  work  of  God.  He  is  gathering  Israel  from  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  and  he  is  bringing  them 
to  Zion.  He  is  doing  it  by  the  very  power  which  he  introduced  into 
this  great  work  and  planted  in  the  hearts  of  the  young  men  and  women 
of  Zion,  who,  I  testify,  will  never  fail  to  proclaim  this  truth  to  the 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world.  1  have  been  associated  with  these  young  men  and  women  to  the 
delight  of  my  soul,  knowing  that  there  arc  no  hotter  men  and  women 
in  all  the  world  than  these  whom  God  has  sent  out  to  preach  the  gospel. 

1  bring'  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  the  Northcentral 
States  mission,  the  love,  the  faith,  and  a  testimony  of  the  integrity  and 
the  virtue  of  the  young  men  and  women  who  comprise  that  mission.  God 
bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Send  us  more  help.  Men  and  women  who 
do  not  know  will  know,  if  they  come  into  the  field  and  will  live  a  godly 
life  and  follow  the  instructions  of  the  brethren.  They  will  know  the 
truth  and  will  be  able  to  stand  up  with  their  brethren,  shoulder  to 
shoulder,  and  testify  that  they  know  this  work  is  true. 

May  God  be  mindful  of  his  people  ever,  and  bless  them  so  that 
the  testimony  which  they  now  have  may  increase  and  grow.  May 
we  be  witnesses  to  the  world,  for  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  it,  not  to  convert  the  world,  but  as  a  witness,  and  then  shall 
the  end  come.  May  we  make  this  witness  ring"*  from  one  end  of  the 
earth  to  the  other,  and  fulfil  the  responsibility  which  God  has  placed 
upon  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege  of 
being  a  missionary,  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  sure 
that  all  of  the  missionaries,  at  times,  become  more  or  less  restless,  and 
rather  anxious  about  the  advancement  of  the  work  in  the  mission  field. 
At  times  we  feel  that  the  work  is  rather  slow  and  that  we  are  not  quite 
accomplishing  what  we  should  accomplish.  This  feeling  undoubtedly 
comes  because  of  the  love  of  the  gospel  that  we  have  in  our  hearts  and 
the  knowledge  that  it  is  the  gospel  of  salvation,  and  that  without  it  men 
and  women  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  Therefore,  we  are 
anxious  that  the  gospel  may  come  to  the  knowledge  and  understanding 
of  all  of  the  men  and  women  of  the  earth. 

Recently  I  was  approached  by  a  gentleman  who  has  charge  of  a 
radio  station.  He  made  inquiry  as  to  whether  we  wanted  to  use  a  time 
on  the  Sabbath  clay  to  deliver  our  message  to  the  people  by  radio,  reach- 
ing perhaps  three  million  people.  We  have  commenced  that  service  at 
home  and  undoubtedly  this  kind  of  education,  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  will  be  established  in  the  different  parts  of  the  earth,  so  that  all 
may  have  the.  privilege  of  listening  in  and  obtaining  some  understand- 
ing of  the  gospel  we  are  preaching. 

The  Lord  is  opening  the  way,  and  as  we  come  to  the  large  cities 
and  are  shut  out  of  the  buildings,  and  it  is  very  difficult  to  get  in  touch 
with  the  people,  the  Lord  is  opening  a  way  whereby  we  can  reach  them 
in  their  homes  and  explain  the  gospel  to  them.  I  am  sure  that  we  will 
never  abandon  the  personal  labor  of  the  missionary,  but  we  will  some 
day  reach  more  of  the  homes  than  we  are  reaching  at  the  present  time. 

This  gospel  is  a  strenuous  one.  It  makes  men  and  women  work. 
It  requires  great  service  at  the  hands  of  people  who  belong  to  the 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


121 


Church,  Jand  if  jinen  and  women  want  to  find  an  easy  church,  an  easy 
way  to  get  religion,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  the  place  for  them. 
\\  e  require  service  at  the  hands  of  the  people,  and  the  nearer  men  and 
women  live  up  to  the  gospel  precepts,  the  stronger  and  the  better  they 
are.  We  are  not  afraid  for  our  young  people  who  understand  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ.  We  are  afraid  for  our  young  people  when  they  are 
ignorant  and  untrained  in  the  beautiful  truths  and  doctrines  that  we 
teach  in  our  Church.  We  are  convinced  and  have  proof  of  the  fact  that 
if  our  young  people  will  study  and  learn  the  beautiful  truths  of  the 
gospel  that  there  is  no  danger  of  their  going  astray  or  accepting  other 
teachings.  We  are  not  withholding  books  from  them.  We  are  not 
keeping  them  from  association  with  men  and  women.  In  fact  we  send 
them  out  by  the  thousands  that  they  may  come  in  contact  with  the 
trained  and  the  untrained,  that  they  may  more  thoroughly  become  fa- 
miliar with  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  just  as  surely  as  they  will 
go  out  and  study  the  gospel  and  acquire  a  knowledge  of  its  principles 
and  become  educated  in  its  service  and  acquire  humility  that  they  may 
have  the  Spirit  of  God,  our  young  people  will  always  stay  with  us  and 
will  grow  up  to  be  men  and  women  who  will  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments. 

I  am  rather  surprised,  as  I  travel  among  the  people,  at  their  attitude 
in  regard  to  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  had  the  opinion  when  I 
was  young  that  everyone  believed  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  our  great 
duty  perhaps  in  a  missionary  line  would  be  to  preach  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  great  mission.  But  we  find  that  it  is  necessary  in  this  day  to 
preach  Jesus  Christ  and  him  crucified.  In  fact  that  was  the  message 
and  the  admonition  of  the  prophet  to  the  first  elders  who  went  out  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  gospel.  The  instructions  of  today  seem  almost 
like  repetitions  of  what  has  happened  in  the  past.  We  read  in  the  Hook 
of  Mormon  about  Korihor  and  Nehor  and  others  who  went  out  and 
preached  against  the  coming  of  the  Savior,  and  told  the  people  that  he 
was  not  to  come,  and  that  it  was  not  necessary  to  put  faith  in  him,  that 
in  the  end  they  should  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  know  that 
we  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God  unless  we  acknowledge 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God,  we  know  that  he  came  upon  the  earth 
and  gave  his  life  that  we  might  live  again. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  as  a  people  to  stand  true  and 
firm  in  the  faith  of  our  fathers.  I  trust  that  we  will  not  give  up  our 
faith  in  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  I  trust  that  we  shall  never 
do  anything  that  may  cause  us  to  lose  our  faith  and  so  make  us  ashamed 
of  the  gospel  or  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  is  a  prophet  of  God 
and  restored  to  us  the  gospel  of  salvation.  May  we  love  our  Savior, 
be  true  to  his  teachings  and  follow  out  his  admonitions,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  WM.  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  N orthzvestern  States  Mission 
This  is  truly  an  inspirational  sight,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
stand  in  the  presence  of  these  mighty  servants  of  our  eternal  Father, 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  I  assure  you  I  feel  my  weakness  and  my  humility  this  morning  as, 
perchance,  I  have  never  felt  it  before  in  all  my  life. 

I  read  an  article  in  the  February  issue  of  Current  History.  The 
article  is  entitled  "The  Re-building  of  Pre-Historic  America  and  Ameri- 
can Art."  The  writer  said  most  of  us  believe  it  was  Columbus-  who 
discovered  America,  but  that  facts  are  now  available  to  prove  that 
America  had  been  peopled ;  that  great  cities  and  towns  had  flourished 
here,  not  only  of  tens  and  hundreds,  but  of  thousands,  many  hundreds 
of  years  before  the  time  of  Columbus. 

As  I  listened  to  the  remarks  of  President  John  M.  Knight  I  was 
reminded  of  an  experience  which  I  had  three  years  ago  in  his  mission. 
Down  in  an  Indian  pueblo, — south  of  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico,  I  met 
an  Indian  by  the  name  of  Pablo  Chito.  He  speaks  English,  Spanish 
and  French  and  nine  different  Indian  dialects.  In  my  conversation 
with  him  I  said:  "Pablo,  how  do  you  account  for  these  many  tribes 
of  Indians,  and  where  do  they  all  reside?"  He  said,  "They  are  all  resi- 
dents of  the  state  of  New  Mexico."  "Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  each 
of  them  speaks  a  different  dialect  and  that  not  one  tribe  understands 
the  language  of  the  other?"  He  said  that  was  true.  I  said,  "Pablo, 
have  you  ever  read  the  Bible?"  He  said,  "Yes,  I  have."  I  said:  "Do 
you  remember  the  48th  and  49th  chapters  of  Genesis,  where  old  father 
Jacob  called  his  son  Joseph,  and  he  with  his  two  sons,  Ephraim  and 
Manasseh,  met  that  good  old  Patriarch?  Father  Jacob  crossed  his 
hands  and  laid  his  left  hand  on  the  head  of  Manasseh  and  his  right  hand 
upon  the  head  of  Ephraim.  Joseph,  seeing  the  mistake  of  his  father, 
went  to  correct  him,  and  said,  "Father,  you  have  your  right  hand  upon 
Ephraim,  and  Ephraim  is  younger."  Father  Jacob  said,  "Joseph,  I 
know  what  I  am  doing.  Manasseh's  blessings  shall  be  great,  but 
Ephraim's  blessings  shall  be  greater.  Ephraim  shall  become  a  multitude 
of  nations."  Then  in  the  next  chapter  we  read  of  his  calling  his  twelve 
sons  together,  and  he  said  unto  Joseph :  "Joseph's  blessings  shall  ex- 
tend above  those  of  his  progenitors.  Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough  by  a 
well,  and  his  branches  shall  run  over  the  wall,  and  they  shall  become 
a  multitude  of  nations,"  etc.  I  said.  "Pablo,  have  you  read  that?"  He 
said,  "Yes,  I  have,"  and  he  said,  "I  would  like  to  tell  you  something, 
Mr.  Sloan.  Do  you  see  that  little  house  yonder?"  As  he  pointed, 
he  said:  "That  house  was  built  four  generations  before  Columbus  dis- 
covered America.  You  think  that  he  was  the  first  man  to  discover 
America."  Then  he  said :  "Mr.  Sloan,  I  have  a  diary  that  goes  back 
twenty-three  generations  before  Columbus  discovered  America,  and 
there  were  many  white  men  here  before  Columbus'  day."  This  struck 
me  with  a  force  that  I  had  never  felt  in  my  life  before,  -and  I  have  tried  * 
to  analyze  his  statement.  This  man's  diary  goes  back  twenty-three  gen- 
erations before  Columbus  discovered  America.  I  have  done  some  little 
temple  work  myself  and  I  have  been  figuring  back  to  enumerate,  if  I 
could,  just  what  a  numerous  posterity  that  would  mean,  and  I  have  only 
gone  back  twenty-one  generations.  If  you  read  that  wonderful  Book 
of  Mormon  you  will  see  that  there  have  been  thousands  and  millions 
of  people  who  have  lived  on  the  American  continent,  and  Mr.  Hampden, 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


123 


in  his  article  in  Current  History,  enumerates  them  as  millions  and  mil- 
lions of  people. 

Just  recently  I  received  a  letter  from  one  of  the  missionaries  in 
the  Northwestern  States  mission  in  which  he  recounted  this  experience 
to  me.    He  said :    "President  Sloan,  we  called  on  a  man  and  left  with 
him  a  Book  of  Mormon."    I  do  not  know  why  the  missionary  should 
have  done  this  without  any  explanation  whatsoever  as  to  the  contents  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  as  to  its  purpose.    But  he  said  the  man  took 
the  book  and  as  he  read  it  he  found  that  it  spoke  of  a  wonderful  people 
which  came  from  Jerusalem.   They  lived  upon  this  continent  for  a  few 
years  and  then  they  divided  and  subdivided,  and  conflicts  arose,  and  a 
curse  was  placed  upon  some  of  these  people  and  a  dark  skin  was  the 
result  of  this  curse.    This  man  thought  to  himself,  "Can  this  be  the 
negro  race  of  people?"    Then  as  he  read  further  along  in  the  book  he 
found  that  some  day  these  people  were  to  become  white  and  delightsome 
again,  and  he  could  not  imagine  that  this  would  be  the  negro  people. 
One  day  after  reading  from  this  book  and  thinking  much  about  it  he 
went  to  visit  his  daughter  who  lived  just  a  half  block  distant  from  where 
he  was  then  residing.    He  spent  the  afternoon  and  stayed  all  night  at 
his  daughter's  home.   During 'the  night,  after  he  had  retired  and  fallen 
asleep,  he  had  what  you  may  call  a  dream  or  a  vision,  or  what  you  will. 
He  was  taken  into  a  valley  through  which  a  river  of  water  was  run- 
ning.  Trees  were  on  both  sides  of  the  stream,  and  among  the  trees  and 
on  each  side  of  the  river  were  numerous  tents  of  Indians,  or  tepees,  or 
wigwams,  as  you  wish  to  call  them.    The  Indians  were  there  in  hun- 
dreds, going  about  their  daily  duties,  etc.   He  saw  nothing  to  this,  how- 
ever, except  a  large  tribe  of  Indians.    Then  this  part  of  the  dream 
closed  and  he  was  carried  over  into  his  own  home,  into  his  own  bed- 
room, and  lying  on  a  little  center  table  near  his  bed  was  a  copy  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.    He  saw  the  book  lying  there  and  as  he  beheld  the 
cover  of  it  he  saw  a  light  emanating  from  the  book,  and  it  arose  about 
twelve  inches  above  the  book.   There  it  stood  for  a  second  or  two  and 
then  gradually  ascended  clear  into  the  heavens.    He  connected  the  two 
together  and  the  next  day  he  sought  the  elders.   He  said :   "You  did  not 
tell  me  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  a  history  of  the  American  Indians. 
Now  I  know  it  is.    I  know  it  is  a  record  of  God's  dealings  with  those 
people,  because  he  revealed  it  to  me  in  my  dreams  last  night." 

These  experiences,  the  testimony  of  President  Ivins  and  of  the 
many  other  brethren  who  have  spoken  during  this  conference,  have 
encouraged  me  in  this  work,  and  my  knowledge  of  this  truth  that  we 
are  promulgating ;  and  my  desire  and  my  ambition  is  to  do  more  in  the 
future,  if  God  will  give  me  strength,  to  further  his  purposes  in  the 
earth. 

We  are  working  hard  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission.  We 
have  a  wonderful  group  of  young  men  and  young  women.  Only  two 
weeks  ago,  Sister  Powell,  one  of  our  girls  twenty  years  old,  and  her 
companion  were  compelled  to  move  their  place  of  residence,  and  they 
secured  a  little  home  not  far  from  where  they  had  been  living.  When 
they  went  into  the  little  home  they  found  that  the  stove  and  the  lights 


124 


X  ERA L  CONFERENCE 


had  to  be  connected  with  the  gas.  Sister  Powell  telephoned  to  the  gas 
company  office  for  them  to  send  a  man  up  to  connect  the  gas.  When  the 
man  received  the  call  on  the  other  end  of  the  phone  he  said:  "Who  is 
talking,  please?"  She  gave  her  name.  "Your  house  number,  please?" 
She  gave  her  number.  He  said:  "Will  you  tell  me  the  business  you 
are  engaged  in?"  She  said,  "We  are  'Mormon'  missionaries  working 
in  the  city  of  Portland."  "  'Mormon'  missionaries!  This  is  quite  pe- 
culiar," he  said.  "Only  yesterday,  as  1  have  been  investigating  and 
studying  and  praying  for  light,  and  that  God  would  bless  me  and  lead 
me  to  the  truth,  a  voice  whispered  to  me  and  said,  the  'Mormons'  are 
going  to  call  you  up.  And  here  you  are  calling  me  up  as  a  member  of 
the  'Mormon'  Church.  I  am  not  going  to  send  a  man  to  connect  the 
gas,  but  I  am  coming  myself." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  time  is  up.  I  am  happy  to  bring  you 
the  love  and  greetings  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Northwestern  States 
mission,  and  in  the  words  of  the  wonderful  vision  of  the  Prophet,  re- 
corded in  the  seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 

"Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabitants 
thereof,  for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there  is  no  Savior.'' 

I  bear  you  this  witness,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  and  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  God's 
revealed  truth,  and  I  believe  a  man  can  get  nearer  the  Lord  by  reading 
that  book  than  any  other  book  in  the  world.  I  believe  the  missionaries 
today  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission  are  nearer  God  than  they 
possibly  have  been  for  some  time,  because  they  are  reading  that  book 
today.  They  are  praying  about  it,  and  God  is  answering  their  prayers. 
1  pray  that  he  shall  continue  to  bles^  us.  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

Former  President  of  the  Uintah  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  While  1  am  greatly  surprised  now,  I 
appreciate  that  President  Grant  has  allowed  me  to  enjoy  in  peace  the 
meetings  thus  far.  jl  have  listened  and  have  been  thrilled  with  the 
messages  of  this  conference. 

Xot  long  ago  in  the  city  of  W  ashington  I  was  invited  to  speak  in 
one  of  the  large  churches  of  that  city  on  the  question  of  "What  is 
'Mormonism?'  "  At  the  close  of  the  talk  opportunity  was  given  for  the 
asking  of  questions.  One  gentleman  prefaced  his  question  with  re- 
marks about  as  follows:  "At  the  time  of  the  organization  of  the  Church 
there  were  many  Christian  denominations  in  the  world,  hundreds  of 
them,  each  trying  as  best  it  could. to  teach  the  message  of  Christ.  Your 
Church  came  as  a  discordant  note,  so  to  speak.  You  have  been  the 
cause  of  much  trouble.  Peace  has  been  taken  from  some  homes  because 
of  your  message.  Those  who  have  joined  your  Church  and  lived  their 
religion  have  suffered  much  persecution.  Much  dissension  and  dis- 
cussion have  come  as  a  result  of  it,  and  your  own  people  have  suf- 


ELDER  DOS  B.  COLTON 


125 


fered  much  in  being  driven  from  the  east  to  the  west,  and  have  become 
more  or  less  an  isolated  people.  Query:  Why  'Mormonism' ?  Why 
all  of  this  turmoil  and  strife?    Mas  it  been  worth  while?" 

I  shall  not  have  time  this  morning  to  answer  in  full  that  question, 
but  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  two  or  three  of  the  points 
that  I  made  in  answering  that  gentleman.  In  the  city  of  Washington, 
a  year  ago  this  last  winter,  the  leading  daily  paper  published  for  many 
weeks  articles  by  the  leading  authors  of  the  country  under  the  heading, 
"What  my  religion  means  to  me."  I  invited  this  man's  attention  to 
the  fact  that  in  every  case  except  one  these  authors  had  said  they  had 
been  compelled,  during  the  course  of  their  lives,  to  revise  their  ideas 
of  religion ;  that  they  had  been  taught  in  the  days  of  their  youth  that 
the  God  whom  they  worshipped  was  a  personal  being  with  a  body 
and  with  limitations.  As  they  went  out  into  the  world  and  began  their 
study  in  the  colleges,  they  discovered  that  if  (there  is  a  God  he  could  not 
be  circumscribed  with  limitations.  They  saw  the  evidence  upon  every 
hand  of  his  power  and  of  his  evefywhereness  and  they  were  compelled, 
so  they  said,  to  change  their  ideas  of  the  being  whom  they  had  wor- 
shipped, and  were  forced  to  accept  God  as  a  force  or  as  an  omnipresent 
power  in  all  the  universe.  In  many  cases  these  authors  for  a  time 
wandered  without  any  religion,  but  came  back  to  the  conviction  that 
there  is  some  force,  some  ipower,  some  influence,  and  that  power  and 
influence  they  had  learned  to  call  God.  But  they  rejected  entirely  the 
idea  of  a  personal  God.  This  gentleman  recalled  reading  all  of  these 
articles.  Then  I  said  to  him,  we  are  told  in  the  scripture,  that  to  know 
God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  has  sent  is  life  eternal. 

It  is,  then,  of  vital  importance,  is  it  not,  to  know  him?  The  ques- 
tion carries  its  own  answer.  To  know  him  is  the  greatest  blessing  that 
can  come  to  a  human  soul.  But  the  question  is,  how  does  "Mormon" 
philosophy  solve  the  problem  and  reconcile  the  omnipresence  of  God 
and  yet  proclaim  him  a  personal  being? 

"Mormon"  philosophy,  !I  say,  has  given  an  answer  to  that  question. 
It  has  said,  and  does  say,  that  God  is  a  personal  being,  but  that  emanat- 
ing from  him  is  a  light  which  fills  the  immensity  of  space.  The  light  of 
the  sun,  the  light  of  the  moon,  the  light  of  the  stars — the  light  of  all 
the  heavenly  bodies.  Radio  proves  the  presence  of  at  least  something 
that  permeates  every  known  object,  no  matter  how  opaque  the  substance. 
There  is  found  in  all  the  universe  a  substance,  which  for  lack  of  a  better 
term  we  call  ether,  In  the  131st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
it  is  (revealed  to  us  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  immaterial  matter. 
But  all  the  forces  and  everything  that  is  in  existence  (and  we  know 
that  the  ether  is  in  existence)  is  but  a  finer  matter.  I  am  not  saying 
what  it  is.  I  do  not  know.  It  only  proves,  however,  that  there  is  a 
force,  a  something  everywhere,  and  whether  that  be  the  instrument  by 
which  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  light  that  emanates  from  him,  operates 
and  fills  the  immensity  of  space,  perhaps  is  yet  to  be  discovered.  Suf- 
fice it  to  say  that  there  is  such  an  instrumentality.  This  is  in  accordance 
with  ^David's  description  of  God,  for  he  said,  "If  I  ascend  up  into 
heaven,  thou  art  there ;  if  I  make  my  bed  in  hell,  behold,  thou  art  there. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


If  I  take  the  wings  of  the  morning,  and  dwell  in  the  uttermost  parts 
of  the  sea;  even  there  shall  thy  hand  lead  me.  and  thy  right  hand  shall 
hold  me." 

So  "Mormon"  philosophy  answers  the  question  that  has  puzzled  the 
thinkers  of  the  day,  in  revealing  how  God  can  be  a  personal  God  and 
yet  be  omnipotent.  Emanating  from  him  is  the  light  which  proceedeth 
forth  from  the  presence  of  the  Father  to  fill  the  immensity  of  space. 
Ancient  scriptures  abundantly  attest  the  fact  that  God  is  a  personal 
being,  and  this  is  supplemented  by  the  revelations  of  this  day  which  at 
once  answer  the  question  that  'God  may  be  and  is  a  personal  being,  and 
at  the  same  time  his  power  and  presence  and  influence  are  felt  through- 
out all  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  universe.  So  that  "Mormonism" 
has  answered  one  of  the  great  perplexing  questions  of  the  day,  and 
that  alone  would  justify  its  existence. 

Another  question,  and  I  must  be  brief:  Next  to  the  great  and 
important  question  of  finding  God  is  to  find  out  who  is  man,  and  to 
that  question  "Mormon"  philosophy  has  given  a  definite  and  reasonable 
answer.  No  man  who  thinks  can  believe  anything  else  than  that  man  is 
a  dual  being.  As  we  stand  by  the  bier  of  a  loved  one,  we  know  that 
something  has  departed.  Evolution,  if  it  were  accepted  as  truth,  ex- 
plains only  the  body.  That  which  we  love,  that  which  reasons,  that 
which  thinks,  that  which  has  ambition,  that  which  distinguishes  man 
and  makes  him  a  little  lower  than  the  angels,  but  much  higher  than  the 
animals  of  the  earth;  that  which  is  really  man  must  be  explained.  So 
far  as  I  have  found,  after  extensive  reading  and  earnest  research, 
"Mormon"  philosophy  alone  gives  a  reason  and  answer  to  the  question, 
Who  and  what  is  man?  He  is  composed  of  spirit  and  body  which 
make  up  the  soul,  or  the  completed  man,  and  that  spirit  did  not  have  its 
origin  by  accident.  It  was  and  is  the  creation  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  the  material  of  which  it  is  made  is  only  finer  matter,  as  explained 
in  the  131st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  If  it  exists  it  is 
.something  and  is,  therefore,  matter. 

I  could  give  you  the  explanations  of  Christian  thinkers  everywhere. 
I  am  sure  if  you  were  to  "compare  them  with  our  answer  and  explana- 
tion as  to  the  origin  of  man  you  would  admit  at  once  that  "Mormon" 
philosophy  has  given  an  answer,  not  only  consistent  with  logic,  but  con- 
sistent with  the  revealed  word  of  God.  We  do  not  believe  as  Lyman 
Abbott,  for  instance,  said,  that  it  is  possible  when  that  first  monkey- 
man  stood  up  in  the  primeval  forest,  that  God  breathed  into  that  body 
the  soul  that  we  inherit.  We  do  not  believe  that.  Every  man  has  a 
spirit,  is  himself  a  child  of  God,  created  just  as  naturally  and  just  as 
much  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  nature  as  is  the  body  itself. 
We  are  all  God's  children. 

And  so,  in  further  answer  to  the  question,  Why  "Mormonism?"  Not 
only  to  reveal  God,  whom  to  know  its  eternal  life,  but  to  reveal  man,  his 
origin,  his  relationship  to  Deity,  his  wonderful  mission  here  and  here- 
after. 

Another  answer,  and  an  answer  that  is  worth  while,  given  in  no 
other  philosophy,  is  the  doctrine  concerning  home.    Sometimes  it  has 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLT ON 


127 


been  said  by  ill-advised  people  that  "Mormonisrn"  is  not  conducive  to 
good  homes.  O,  how  utterly  foreign  to  the  truth  is  such  a  thought! 
"Mormon"  philosophy  has  revealed  to  the  earth  that  home  is  the 
only  unit,  when  properly  /commenced  and  fully  appreciated,  that  shall 
endure  forever,  and  reveals  to  man  the  wonderful  relationship  that 
does  and  shall  forever  exist  between  man  and  wife,  between  father  and 
mother,  and  children,  and  gives  us  a  picture  of  what  it  really  is  to 
become  one  in  God's  great  family.  No  more  ennobling  truth  was  ever 
taught  to  the  children  of  men. 

Now  we  see  why  Elijah  the  prophet  should  be  sent  to  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to 
the  fathers,  lest  the  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse,  for  it  comprehends 
the  binding  in  one  of  all  the  children  of  our  Father  into  his  great 
family.  That  alone  justifies  the  existence  of  "Mormonisrn."  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  with  all  due  respect  to  every  other  religion  of  the 
world,  I  do  not  believe  there  is  any,  other  people  who  look  upon  the 
sacred  relationship  of  home  as  we  do.  We  believe  that  the  binding  to- 
gether of  man  and  wife,  the  sealing  of  the  children  to  their  parents 
for  eternity,  will  ultimately  bring  into  one  fold  all  the  children  of  God. 

In  brief,  then,  Why  "Miormonism  ?"  To  reveal  God,  whom  to  know 
is  eternal  life.  To  reveal  man — who  he  is,  and  what  his  relationship 
to  Deity  is, — and  to  proclaim  to  him  how  to  organize  the  one  unit — 
home — that  shall  endure  forever.  These  are  some  of  the  reasons,  in 
brief,  for  the  establishment  of  the  "Mormon"  religion  in  the  midst  of  the 
other  religions  of  the  world.  This  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  the  means  for  salvation,  endless  joy,  endless  increase,  hap- 
piness and  progress  forever,  worlds  without  end. 

God  help  us  fully  to  appreciate  the  biggest  and  best  thing  in  all  the 
universe,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HENRY  N.  MICKELSEN 

President  of  the  Lost  River  Stake  of  TAon 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  somewhat  like  Paul  of  old  said, 
probably  one  of  the  weakest  or  the  least  of  you.  I  appreciate  more  than 
words  can  express  my  fellowship  and  membership  in  this  great  work. 

I  have  not  had  the  privilege  as  some  have  had  of  being  born  under 
the  covenant,  but  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  studying  for  myself.  There- 
fore, in  my  mature  age,  I  became  a  convert  to  this  Church,  and  I  can 
say,  as  the  scriptures  say,  that  the  little  seed  which  was  sown  within  me 
has  developed  and  grown.  Wherefore  we  know,  if  that  be  the  case, 
that  we  are  not  in  error  but  are  continuing  in  the  light.  I,  too,  with 
the  rest  of  you,  in  another  sense,  make  the  same  statement  as  did  Paul  : 
"But  I  certify  you,  brethren,  that  the  gospel  which  was  preached  of  me 
is  not  after  man,  neither  did  I  receive  it  of  men,  but  by  and  through  the 
revelations  of  Jesus  Christ." 

That  is  why  we  are  all  here.   We  have  not  received  this  gospel  of 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


man.  but  through  the  revelations  of  Jesus  Christ.  Not  perhaps  through 
a  direct  message,  hut  hy  the  influence  that  he  has  left  us. 

I  always  appreciate  hearing  someone  speak  concerning  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  That  hook  is  the  reason  for  my  standing  before  you  to- 
day. 1  believed  it  to  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  in  reading  it,  said 
to  my  wife:  "If  the  Bible  is  the  word  of  the  Lord,  there  is  no  question 
in  this  world  that  this  book  is  also  the  word  of  the  Lord."  As  the 
Bible  is  the  history  of  the  hand-dealings  of  the  Lord  with  the  people 
on  the  eastern  hemisphere,  so  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history  of  his 
dealings  with  the  people  on  the  western  hemisphere.  One  substantiates 
the  other,  and  together  they  give  us  a  strong  testimony. 

1  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price  are  true  and  from  the  Lord.  No  wonder  we  gather 
here  as  a  host.  No  wonder  men  live  and  want  to  live  worthy  lives  that 
they  may  continue  to  grow  in  this  great  work,  that  when  we  have 
finished  our  mission  here  we  may  take  with  us  the  intelligence  which 
we  have  gained  here.  We  should,  therefore,  be  thankful  to  each  other 
and  continue  to  work  in  the  Lord's  cause,  spending  our  means  and  liv- 
ing in  such  a  way  that  our  brethren  who  are  not  of  our  faith  may  see 
our  good  works  and  join  with  us. 

A  young  woman  from  New  York  City  made  the  statement  that  it 
was  foolish  for  the  people  in  this  intermountain  country  to  build  such 
a  house  as  we  are  gathered  in,  that  as  far  as  religious  worshipers  are 
concerned  it  would  be  impossible  for  those  who  are  residing  in  this  city 
to  fill  it.  And  yet  here  it  is  filled  to  overflowing  every  conference.  Why 
is  it?  It  is  because  we  all  grow  together  in  this  Church.  One  is  not 
greater  than  the  other,  only  we  respect,  of  course,  our  brethren  who  are 
over  us  in  authority.  But  we  grow  together,  we  grow  in  intelligence, 
and  we  all  take  part.  That  is  the  reason  that  we  are  here  today  enjoy- 
ing the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  great  testimonies  that  have  been  borne. 

It  is  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  that  it 
will  grow,  and  that  we  will  be  exalted  in  our  Father's  kingdom  if  we 
continue  faithful  and  do  our  bit  by  taking  part  in  this  great  organiza- 
tion. May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  our  righteous  undertakings,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  COLEN  H.  SWEETEN 

President  of  the  Curlew  Stake  of  Zion 

My  testimony  has  been  greatly  strengthened  during  this  confer 
ence.  In  listening  to  the  calls  of  our  mission  presidents  for  more  mis 
sionaries,  I  feel  very  proud  of  the  little  stake  that  I  have  been  asked  t 
preside  over,  for  we  sense  the  responsibility  of  preaching  the  gospel  not 
only  to  the  world,  but  to  the  people  who  live  in  our  stake  who  may  not 
understand  the  gospel.  The  small  stake  that  I  preside  over  has  but 
1,250  people.  A  year  ago  we  had  eleven  long-term  missionaries  in  the 
field.  When  the  call  came  from  President  Grant  for  short-term  mis- 
sionaries ten  of  our  brethren  volunteered.  This  is  very  pleasing  to  us 
who  preside  over  that  stake  of  Zion.    During  the  last  winter  we  have 


ELDER  COLEN  H.  SWEETEN 


129 


had  fourteen  long-term  missionaries  in  the  field  and  three  short-term, 
missionaries. 

We  quite  often  hear  people,  who  are  trying  to  criticise,  say  that 
our  people  are  not  sincere  in  their  belief.  I  do  not  see  how  any  person, 
with  a  sane  mind,  can  say  that,  after  listening  to  the  report  that  Elder 
David  O.  McKay  read  to  us  yesterday  of  the  time  and  money  that  have 
been  spent  by  the  members  of  this  Church,  and  after  knowing,  as  1 
know,  of  the  effort  our  people  are  putting  forth  in  our  little  stake  to 
preach  the  gospel  to  people  who  do  not  understand  it.  I  know  that  we 
are  sincere,  and  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  people  who 
do  not  think  we  are  sincere  have  never  been  humble  enough  themselves 
to  ask  their  Father  in  heaven  that  they  might  understand  the  gospel. 
There  is  one  truth  that  we  cannot  get  away  from,  and  it  is  this :  We 
cannot  understand  the  gospel  without  the  assistance  of  our  Father  in 
heaven.  We  find  in  our  organizations  that  wherever  those  in  charge 
attempt  to  accomplish  the  work  themselves,  with  their  own  power,  with- 
out asking  for  the  assistance  of  their  Father  in  heaven,  they  fail.  But 
wherever  they  are  humble  and  pray  for  the  assistance  of  our  Father 
in  heaven,  he  will  always  come  to  their  rescue  and  help  finish  the 
work  they  are  called  to  perform.  If  the  people  of  the  world  who  do 
not  understand  the  gospel,  and  are  always  criticising,  would  get  down 
on  their  knees  with  a  prayerful  heart  and  ask  their  Father  in  heaven  to 
help  them  to  understand  the  truth  and  the  beauties  of  the  gospel,  I  am 
sure  that  bur  heavenly  Father  would  come  to  their  rescue.  I  know  he 
has  done  this  for  me,  and  that  he  will  do  it  for  others.  I  know  that 
the  gospel  is  true,  and  that  by  trying  to  help  others  in  this  life  we  help 
ourselves.  We  always  get  more  out  of  the  effort  of  doing  our  duty 
than  we  put  into  it.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  perform  our  obligations 
here  on  the  earth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALFRED  H.  BELLISTON 

President  of  the  Juab  Stake  of  Zdon 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  recently  complimented  a  gentleman  for 
having  splendid  terminal  facilities.  That  part  is  not  bothering  me  at 
present.  I  would  like  to  have  a  self-starter.  Elder  Geo.  F.  Richards, 
in  one  of  the  meetings  of  this  conference,  said  that  it  required  greater 
intelligence  to  create  an  idea  than  it  did  to  find  words  with  which  to 
express  it.    I  have  an  idea  that  there  is  truth  in  that  statement. 

I  rejoice  this  morning  in  being  numbered  among  this  people,  and 
in  having  the  privilege  of  rendering  service  in  this  great  organization, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  a  most  wonder- 
ful organization.  It  has  nurtured  me  from  my  infancy.  It  has  pro- 
vided for  me  all  the  facilities  which  I  consider  essential  for  my  prog- 
ress and  development.  I  am  not  saying  how  well  I  have  observed  and 
taken  advantage  of  the  opportunities  that  have  been  afforded,  but  it  has 
always  provided  a  means  for  the  exercise  of  my  ambitions  and  for  my 
development.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  in  my  teens  I  became  interested  in 
the  Church  and  its  doctrines  and  organizations,  and  received  the  bene- 


130 


GENERAL  CONFEREM  E 


fits  of  its  teachings;  that  early  in  my  young  manhood  the  Lord  blessed 
me  with  wholesome  surroundings  and  gave  me  the  privilege  and  op- 
portunity of  associating  with  men  and  women  of  greater  wisdom  than 
1  had,  who  were  interested  in  my  life  and  directed  my  footsteps  in  the 
ways  of  truth ;  that  it  became  my  privilege  to  perform  a  mission  to  the 
world,  and  that  even  before  my  return  from  that  mission,  several 
months,  in  fact,  I  was  chosen  a  member  of  the  bishopric  of  my  ward. 
1  have  not  been  out  of  the  harness  since.  As  a  representative  of  the 
third  generation  in  the  Church,  1  am  happy  today  to  say  that  the  faith 
if  still  with  the  family  and  has  not  waned  in  the  least  from  the  days  of 
my  grandfather  who  embraced  the  gospel  in  his  native  land,  England. 

A  wonderful  organization,  I  said.  It  has  been  an  inspiration  dur- 
ing this  conference,  as  it  has  during  many  others  that  I  have  been  priv- 
ileged to  attend,  to  witness  the  great  body  of  men  of  intelligence,  busy 
men,  who  give  their  time  and  their  talents  for  the  furtherance  of  this 
work,  and  to  look  into  the  faces  of  thousands  who  have  been  called  to 
positions  in  this  Church  to  minister  for  the  people  and  teach  them  the 
doctrines  of  Christ,  that  they  may  grow  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord.  I  say 
that  it  is  an  inspiration  at  this  moment  to  see  such  men  as  1  see  before 
me.  We  ,do  not  seek  positions  in  this  Church,  but  they  come  to  us  as  a 
rule  through  faithfulness,  and  I  doubt  not  that  the  majority  of  these 
brethren  who  are  before  us,  received  their  appointments  with  reluctance, 
feeling  their  incapacity  and  inability  to  discharge  the  duties  and  re- 
sponsibilities that  would  rest  upon  them  in  serving  the  people  and  ad- 
ministering in  the  various  offices  to  which  they  have  been  called. 

As  a  parent  I  feel  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  provision  has  been 
made  in  the  organizations  of  the  Church  to  supplement  the  home  and 
give  proper  teachings  unto  our  children  in  the  Sunday  schools,  in  the 
Religion  class  and  other  organizations ;  that  means  are  provided  where- 
by they  can  be  taught  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  be  led  to  fear  him  and 
keep  his  commandments.  It  is  wonderful  when  we  contemplate  these 
things  how  kind  the  Lord  has  been  to  us,  how  merciful  he  is  to  us. 

I  feel  that  this  work  is  growing.  I  wish  I  could  report,  as  the 
brother  before  me  did,  with  respect  to  the  missionary  work.  I  think 
it  is  a  wonderful  report  that  he  has  just  given.  I  felt  that  we  were  one 
of  the  smallest  stakes  in  the  Church,  but  we  have  nearly  three  times  the 
number  of  people  that  the  brother  who  has  just  spoken  has  in  his  stake. 
It  is  something  to  be  proud  of  for  a  stake  with  so  few  members  to  furn- 
ish as  many  missionaries  as  he  reports  has  been  furnished  by  his  stake.  I 
can  see  how,  in  the  future,  that  can  strengthen  the  wards  in  his  stake. 
These  missionaries  coming  back  to  the  stake  with  their  experience  and 
the  zeal  that  they  acquire  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  their  missionary 
efforts,  will  repay  ten-fold  for  all  the  sacrifices  that  are  made  now 
in  sending  them  abroad.  I  think  that  this  is  one  thing  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  the  world  is  jealous  of,  this  mis- 
sionary system,  the  strength  it  brings  to  the  people.  It  was  said  recentlv 
in  a  convention  by  a  certain  man  who  had  heard  many  from  Utah  ex- 
press themselves  that  he  wondered  how  it  was  that  the  men  from  Utah 
when  assembled  in  conventions  could  express  themselves  so  clearly.  This 


ELDER  ALFRED  H.  BELLISTON 


131 


gave  the  opportunity  to  explain  to  this  gentleman  our  missionary  sys- 
tem, for  practically  all  of  the  male  members  of  the  Church  have  the 
privilege  in  their  early  manhood  of  going  out  and  proclaiming  the 
gospel,  thus  developing  themselves  to  become  useful  and  efficient  in 
expressing  their  ideas  and  views  on  different  questions  pertaining  to 
civil  life.  I  am  proud  today  to  be  numbered  among  this  people,  and  to 
have  the  pleasure  of  serving  them  in  our  stake.  I  trust  that  we  may 
grow  and  be  united  in  our  effort  to  serve  the  Lord  and  accomplish  his 
purposes. 

May  God  add  his  blessings  unto  all  of  us,  that  we  may  do  our  duty 
faithfully,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN 

President  of  the  Alpine  Stake,  Recently  Returned  from  a  Short-Term 

Mission  in  California 

In  the  fall  of  1925,  when  President  Grant  announced  that  he 
desired  men  of  experience  to  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the  world,  I  was 
sitting  by  my  counselor,  President  Clark,  and  I  suggested  to  him : 
''There  is  an  opportunity  for  you."  He  answered :  "You  have 
my  consent."  I  thought  that  if  I  had  his  consent  and  could  get 
the  consent  of  the  President,  I  should  be  delighted  to  go  into  the  world 
and  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  The  President  told 
me  that  if  I  could  arrange'  my  affairs  he  would  be  delighted  to  have 
me  go,  and  I  responded  to  the  call.  I  landed  in  San  Francisco  on  the 
4th  day  of  January.  I  did  not  go  in  the  fall,  on  account  of  the  business 
interests  that-  needed  to  be  adjusted  before  I  left.  I  labored  in  San 
Francisco  but  a  very  short  time,  and  then  was  called  to  labor  in  Oak- 
land. From  Oakland  I  was  called  to  labor  in  San  Jose,  and  at  the  first 
conference  we  held  there,  President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  being  present, 
I  asked  him  if  he  had  any  objections  to  my  asking  the  bishops  in  our 
stake  to  recommend  missionaries  to  come  down  there  and  assist  me 
in  the  work.  He  said  he  had  none  whatever ;  if  the  bishops  would 
recommend  them,  he  thought  it  could  be  arranged.  I  am  delighted  to 
announce  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  present  that  we '  had  twenty 
missionaries  from  the  Alpine  stake,  laboring  in  the  San  Jose  conference, 
while  I  was  there.  I  was  somewhat  selfish  in  the  matter,  because  I 
realized,  being  president  of  the  stake,  that  when  those  missionaries  re- 
turned they  would  strengthen  us  very  materially,  and  besides  it  would 
do  them  good  and  it  would  do  good  to  the  people  of  the  world. 

After  I  had  labored  in  the  mission  field  six  months  I  was  not 
satisfied.  I  liked  the  work  so  well  that  I  asked  permission  to  remain 
longer,  and  I  did  so  with  consent.  I  enjoyed  my  labors  immensely.  It 
was  the  joy  of  my  life.  Most  of  you  are  aware  that  later  on  we  were 
overtaken  in  an  accident,  where  eight  of  our  missionaries  were  hit  by  an 
automobile,  seven  of  whom  were  knocked  down  and  five  had  to  be 
taken  to  the  hospital.  I  want  to  say  that  at  the  hospital  we  received 
very  fine  treatment  from  the  doctors,  the  nurses  and  the  attendants. 
They  were  all  good  to  us,  and  during  our  stay  with  them  the  mission- 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


aries  taught  the  gospel  to  the  people  in  the  hospital.  While  we  were 
sick  we  spoke  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  them,  and  succeeded  in  placing 
twenty-five  copies  of  that  book  among  the  nurses,  the  doctors,  and 
the  chief  nurse  of  the  hospital.  We  talked  of  the  gospel  to  every  nurse 
that  waited  upon  us,  and  I  think  that  some  good  will  come  out  of  this 
serious  accident.  I  cannot  understand  why  such  an  accident  should 
have  happened  to  a  group  of  missionaries,  choice,  pure-minded,  in- 
dustrious young  people,  who  were  willing  to  labor  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  I  do  not  suppose  that  the  Saints  in  early  days  in  Missouri  under- 
stood -Why  it  was  that  persecutions  were  heaped  upon  them.  I 
suppose  that  the  relatives  of  John  the  Baptist  could  not  understand  why 
he  had  to  go  to  prison  and  was  finally  beheaded.  I  do  not  suppose 
that  the  Saints  in  ancient  days  understood  why  Paul  and  Silas  should 
be  imprisoned,  and  why  Paul  should  be  shipwrecked  and  beaten  with 
many  stripes  a  number  of  times.  I  do  not  understand  these  things, 
but  I  do  know  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm,  and  is  able  to  sanctify 
all  these  conditions  to  the  good  of  his  people.  When  I  regained  con- 
sciousness at  the  hospital  (I  was  unconscious  for  two  or  three  hours), 
and  found  the  doctors  sewing  up  my  head,  and  discovered  what  had 
happened, to  me,  it  seemed  to  me  that  I  was  hurt  everywhere  from 
head  to  foot.  I  had  two  gashes  in  my  head,  my  face  was  all  skinned 
up,  my  lips  were  skinned,  my  hands  and  my  side  also,  and  there  was  a 
gash  in  one  leg,  and  the  other  leg  was  broken.  Well,  it  hit  every 
place  about  me  but  the  most  prominent  part,  and  that  was  my  stomach. 

I  revisited  the  hospital  to  find  out  how  the  nurses  were  getting 
a-long  with  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  found  them  interested  and 
reading  the  Book.  Among  the  nurses  was  a  Chinese,  girl  who  could 
speak  English,  and  who  claimed  that  she  was  a  Christian.  I  induced  her 
to  take  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  read  it.  She  said  she  had  a  brother 
who  was  a  Ph.  D.  at  the  Lick  Observatory,  at  Mount  Hamilton.  I 
made  a  trip  up  to  Mount  Hamilton  and  had  the  opportunity  of  talking 
to  him  and  getting  acquainted  with  him.  I  told  him  I  knew  his  sister. 
I  left  him  my  card  and  the  Articles  of  Faith,  and  told  him  who  I  was. 

I  appreciated  the  opportunity  of  laboring  in  the  mission  field 
and  am  glad  to  return.  California  has  good  roads,  and  many  flowers, 
although  they  are  not  so  fragrant  as  Utah  flowers.  They  have  good 
fruit,  but  I  do  not  think  the  flavor  is  quite  so  good  as  is  the  flavor 
of  our  fruit  at  home.  I  think  the  people  at  home  are  as  beautiful  as 
the  people  of  California,  but  we  find  some  fine  people  in  California, 
splendid,  sincere  people.  As  a  result  of  the  accident  we  had  many 
friends  raised  up  to  us,  Catholic  and  Protestant,  who  entertained  us 
and  welcomed  us  into  their  homes,  and  had  radio  programs  and  regep- 
tions  for  us,  and  this  gave  us  the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel 
to  them.  • 

I  do  not  feel  to  regret  the  accident  very  much.  I  am  hardly  well 
yet,  but  I  believe  that  I  will  get  better,  and  all  of  the  others  who  were 
hurt  in  the  accident  are  better.  The  young  lady  who  had  to  be  in  the 
hospital  so  long  with  her  head  crushed  is  well  again.  The  doctors 
in  California  said  to  me:    "There  is  no  hope  for  her."  I  said:  "Now 


ELDER   STEPHEN   L.  CHIPMAN 


133 


doctor,  I  have  not  felt  that  way,  I  believe  she  will  get  better."  I  had 
not  seen  the  girl,  and  when  they  wanted  to  take  me  in  to  show  her  to 
me  before  she  left  there,  I  told  them  I  did  not  want  to  see  her  on  account 
of  the  condition  of  her  face.  She  weighs  twenty-four  pounds  more  now 
than  she  did  when  she  went  into  the  mission  field,  and  she  looks  more 
beautiful.  She  is  restored,  and  you  cannot  see  a  scar  or  anything  upon 
her  face.  It  is  wonderful.  When  the  doctor  was  waiting  upon  me 
for  my  foot  upon  one  occasion,  he  remarked  to  my  good  wife  who  was 
present:  "That  is  one  time  when  the  guardian  angels  did  not  have 
charge  of  you."  My  wife  said:  ■  "Doctor,  you  are  mistaken,  that  is 
the  very  time  when  they  did  have  charge  of  us,  and  they  saved  every 
one  of  us."  It  would  have  been  an  easy  matter  for  every  one  of  the 
party  to'  have  been  killed,  but  the  Lord  preserved  our  lives,  and  I  hope 
that  those  who  are  injured,  and  their  parents  and  friends,  will  ap- 
preciate the  kindness  of  the  Lord  in  the  preservation  of  our  lives. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  here  at  home,  that  we  may  set  an 
example  to  the  world  that  will  help  us,  and  help  them. 

The  only  criticism  I  received  while  I  was  away  was  upon  one 
occasion  when  speaking  on  the  street  corner.  A  man  stepped  up  to  me, 
after  the  meeting,  and  said:  "Your  talk  was  fine,  but  your  people 
do  not  live  according  to  what  you  are  teaching)  here  tonight."  I  was 
speaking  on  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism."  I  said  to  him:  "Well,  in 
what  way?"  He  said  that  he  had  lived  in  Idaho,  and  that  our  people 
did  not  live  up  to  their  professions.  I  said :  "I  suppose  there  are 
some  members  of  the  Church  who  do  not  live  up  to  all  they  should," 
but,  I  said,  "the  Savior  himself  got  one  bad  one  out  of  twelve,  and  it  is 
just  possible  that  the  gospel  net  may  gather  in  some,  in  these  days,  who 
are  not  as.  they  should  be."    That  seemed  to  satisfy  him. 

I  want  to  say  that  we  met  hundreds  of  people  who  had  been  on  the 
Temple  Block,  and  who  have  visited  the  Bureau  of  Information,  and  I 
have  yet  the  first  individual  to  meet  who  has  been  heard  to  criticize  or 
be  unkind  to  us  in  our  visits  among  them.  In  every  instance  they  com- 
mended the  splendid  treatment  they  received  here  on  the  Temple  Block 
and  at  the  Bureau  of  Information.  It  is  a  wonderful  missionary  arrange- 
ment for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world  and  pre- 
paring them  to  receive  the  elders.  May  God  bless  them,  each  and  every 
one.  Bless  these  brethren  who  preside  that  we  may  uphold  their  hands 
and  stand  by  them  in  this  glorious  work  of  the  Lord,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  received  telegrams  from  different  sections  announcing 
that  people  in  Idaho  and  other  places  are  listening  in  by  radio  to  the 
proceedings  of  the  conference. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  founda- 
tion, ye  Saints  of  the  Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  Austin. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Wednesday,  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  April 
6,  1927. 


FOURTH  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

On  Wednesday  morning,  April  6,  1927,  at  10  o'clock,  the  con- 
ference reconvened,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  Q.  Hale,  president 
of  the  Boise  stake  of  Zion. 

A  mixed  quartette  sang,  "An  angel  from  on  high." 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  sense  the  responsibility,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  vof 
occupying  this  position.  I  desire  that  I  may  have  your  faith,  that 
I  may  be  inspired  to  say  those  things  that  shall  be  profitable  to  all  of 
us,  I  rejoice  greatly  in  the  testimonies  and  the  instructions  that  have 
been  given  to  us  during  this  conference.  I  am  sure  they  are  calculated 
for  the  welfare,  growth  and  development  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

When  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  upon  the  earth,  and  was  teach- 
ing men  the  principles  of  life  and  truth,  there  were  some  who  followed 
him,  as  we  have  heard,  from  among  whom  he  selected  his  Twelve 
Apostles.  But  a  time  came  when  the  question  was  asked  whether  or 
not  they  would  continue  to  follow  him,  and  Peter  responded :  ""Whither 
shall  we  go,  Lord,  if  we  leave  thee?"  Where  could  they  go  to  find  any- 
thing to  compare  with  that  which  he  had  presented  unto  them?  I  am 
reminded  of  the  remark  made  by  the  Savior  to  some  other  followers  of 
his.   I  would  like  to  read  a  few  words : 

"Then  said  Jesus  to  those  Jews  which  believed  on  him.  If  ye 
continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed : 

"And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free. 

"They  answered  him,  We  be  Abraham's  seed,  and  were  never  in 
bondage  to  any  man:  how  sayest  thou,  Ye  shall  be  made  free? 

"Jesus  answered  them,  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  Whosoever 
committeth  sin  is  the  servant  of  sin." 

At  a  later  time,  when  Jesus  was  about  to  be  crucified,  he  was 
before  Pilate,  the  Roman  Governor,  and  Pilate  asked  him  some  ques- 
tions, and,  besides  others,  if  he  were  a  king.    Jesus  said : 

"Thou  sayest  that  I  am  a  king.  To  this  end  was  I  born,  and  for 
this  cause  came  I  into  the  world,  that  I  should  bear  witness  unto  the 
truth.    Every  one  that  lis  of  the  truth  heareth  my  voice." 

Pilate  said  to  him,  "What  is  truth?" 

In  the  year  1837,  when  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  others  of  the 
apostles  and  elders  were  sent  to  England  for  the  opening  of  the  door  of 
the  gospel  in  that  land,  after  arriving  in  Liverpool  they  traveled  on  to 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  <  CANNON 


135 


Preston,  as  1  remember  it,  and  as  they  alighted  from  the  coach,  or  the 
stage,  at  that  place,  they  saw  a  banner  before  them,  erected  as  a  part 
of  the  celebration  in  honor  of  Queen  Victoria,  and  on  that  banner 
the  words,  "Truth  Will  Prevail."  These  brethren  were  encouraged 
by  the  words  on  that  banner.  They  proceeded  diligently  and  faith- 
fully in  the  prosecution  of  the  work  that  they  were  called  to  perform ; 
and  the  harvest  which  was  reaped  through  the  power  and  influence  of 
the  holy  Spirit  as  a  result  of  their  labors  was  wonderful. 

What  is  truth?  We  are  told  that  it  is  the  knowledge  of  things  that 
have  been,  that  are.  and  that  are  to  be.  The  Latter-day  Saints  have 
accepted  this  gospel  which  we  understand  to  be  the  truth.  When  the 
missionaries  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel,  they  present 
these  things  which  they  declare  have  come  from  the  Lord ;  and  those  to 
whom  the  message  comes  are  invited  to  investigate  carefully,  to  compare 
these  things  with  those  which  were  declared  by  Jesus  and  by  his  apos- 
tles, and  with  those  things  that  are  contained  in  the  scriptures  from  the 
very  beginning. 

In  every  instance  those  who  have  accepted  this  message,  after  care- 
ful comparison  and  investigation,  have  become  convinced  that  these 
principles  are  true,  that  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  conform  exactly 
to  those  which  were  taught  by  the  Savior  and  his  apostles  .in  the  previous 
dispensations,  and  that  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  as  declared  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  is  true.  So  we  have  come  to  accept  these  principles 
as  being  the  truth,  the  everlasting  truth.  In  other  words,  the  gospel 
is  "the  truth,  the  whole  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth."  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  been  taught  and  have  appreciated  the  fact  that  where- 
ever  truth  is  to  be  found  it  is  a  part  of  the  gospel.  It  is  for  our  welfare, 
our  blessing,  and  our  development. 

In  the  world  today  there  are  many  things  that  are  in  the  nature 
of  theories.  The  scientific  method  of  investigation  is  to  experiment, 
to  establish  a  hypothesis  or  a  theory  and  then  to  endeavor  to  prove 
whether  or  not  that  theory  is  correct.  There  are  many  theories  in  the 
world  that  some  people  accept  as  truth,  and  yet  they  are  in  a  status  of 
uncertainty.  But  things  that  are  definitely  and  positively  proved  to  be 
true  are  and  should  be  accepted  and  lived  up  to.  There  are  divine 
truths  which  are  for  the  eternal  welfare  of  men,  and  those  divine  truths 
are  included  and  comprehended  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  If  men 
and  women  accept  the  truth,  that  is,  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
then  they  shall  be  made  free, — free  from  sin,  from  transgression,  from 
superstition,  and  from  all  of  those  things  that  hinder  men's  progress. 

I  believe,  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored  in  this  latter 
day,  in  its  purity  and  fulness,  could  not  have  been  established  and  carried 
forward  as  it  has  been  done  in  any  other  land  than  in  this  land  of 
liberty.  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord  had  in  his  purposes  the  establishment 
of  this  land  of  liberty  that  the  gospel  might  be  restored  here  and  go 
forth  to  all  other  lands,  that  men  might  hear  it  and,  so  far  as  they 
love  truth,  accept  it.  But  even  in  this  land  there  has  been,  and  is  to 
some  extent  today — fortunately  not  nearly  so  much  as  there  was 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


formerly — a  spirit  of  prejudice,  of  superstition  and  sometimes  even  of 
persecution  against  those  who  have  accepted  the  truth. 

When  the  Latter-day  Saints  received  the  message  which  came 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  undertook  to  live  it,  they 
were  persecuted  in  those  early  days.  I  was  recently  reading  a  report 
of  the  Rochester  Historical  Society  of  New  York,  telling  of  the  be- 
ginnings of  "Mormonism ;"  and  in  that  story,  even  today,  they  rehash 
old  fables  and  falsehoods  that  were  told  against  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  other  leaders  of  the  Church  in  those  early  days.  Even 
now  they  are  continuing  to  spread  misrepresentation  by  repeating  those 
things  which  were  used  in  a  prejudicial  way  against  the  early  Church 
leaders.  Well,  the  Church,  organized  in  New  York  state,  moved  west- 
ward, because  the  destiny  of  this  work  was  westward.  They  estab- 
lished themselves  at  Kirtland,  and  they  had  difficulty  there  because 
of  persecution  and  objection  to  the  truth. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  undertaken  to  maintain  a  spirit 
of  kindness  and  patience,  endeavoring  to  promulgate  the  truth  because 
they  love  it,  and  because  they  recognize  it  as  a  pearl  of  great  price. 
Yet  many  people  who  ought  to  be  willing  to  accept  the  gospel  and 
receive  the  benefits  and  blessings  which  come  from  it,  have  opposed 
it  and  have  undertaken  to  persecute  those  who? have  accepted  it.  The 
result  was  that  in  Kirtland  there  came  a  time  when  there  were  very 
dark  days  for  the  Church.  There  were  those  who,  because  of  persecu- 
tion, could  not  stand,  nor  retain  their  love  of  the  truth.  They  were 
affected  more  by  the  persecution  of  men,  and  they  fell  away  from  the 
truth.  This  did  not  change  or  alter  the  truth  itself,  but  it  did  affect 
their  standing  and  blessings  which  they  would  have  been  entitled 
to  receive  if  they  had  retained  their  courage  and  faith  in  the  gospel. 

So  the  people  moved  again  westward  to  Missouri — -the  place  that 
the  Lord  had  designated  as  the  center  stake — and  there  they  undertook 
to  live  the  gospel.  It  is  true  that  they  had  some  failings  and  weaknesses, 
but  nothing  to  compare  with  the  men  who  persecuted  them.  It  was  be- 
cause they  were  a  strange  people — -a  peculiar  people — who  undertook  to 
carry  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  truth,  into  their  every-day  lives  that 
they  were  persecuted  and  driven.  There  came  a  time  when  conditions  in 
the  Church  apparently  were  in  a  very  desperate  status,  because  of  the 
terrible  persecutions.  Joseph  Smith  and  other  leaders  of  the  Church 
were  imprisoned,  and  their  very  lives  were  in  danger.  The  people  were 
driven  and  persecuted  in  every  way  and  some  were  massacred.  Brig- 
ham  Young  and  others  who  were  not  imprisoned  were  doing  everything 
in  their  power  to  remove  the  Saints  from  Missouri,  and  to  find  a  rest- 
ing place  for  them.  There  were  those  among  them  who  could  not  retain 
the  truth,  whereby  they  could  be  free,  and  endure  persecution  and  trial 
and  trouble. 

Finally  the  Saints  were  established  in  Illinois,  and  there  they  built 
a  beautiful  city — the  finest  city  in  the  state  of  Illinois.  They  estab- 
lished a  wonderful  community.  Then  again  persecution  followed,  and 
those  who  ought  to  have  been  able  to  acknowledge  and  understand  the 
truth  of  the  gospel  were  the  ones  who  were  bitterly  persecuting  and 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


137 


opposing  this  work.  So,  after  all  that  effort,  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith,  were  cruelly  martyred,  and  others  of  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  were  in  danger  of  their  lives,  and  the  people 
themselves  were  finally  driven  out  again  and  had  to  find  another  rest- 
ing place. 

So  they  came  westward  to  this  land.  There  were  those,  even  then, 
who  could  not  retain  the  truth,  who  could  not  continue  in  faith,  who 
could  not  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  gospel  is  the  means  whereby  they 
could  be  free  and  overcome  the  bondage  of  sin,  transgression,  supersti- 
tion and  those  other  things  which  are  the  result  of  the  error  that  is 
abroad  in  the  world.  The  Latter-day  Saints  who  still  retained  and  lived 
the  truth  came  to  this  land,  established  themselves  and  began  anew  to 
built  a  community,  where  they  could  live  in  faith,  unity  and  love,  and 
promulgate  the  gospel  abroad.  Notwithstanding  these  different  crises 
that  have  occurred,  the  work  has  gone  steadily  forward.  After  they  had 
become  established  here  these  opposed  to  the  truth  were  not  satisfied. 
Because  of  the  fact  that  they  were  growing,  that  the  truth  was  becom- 
ing established  and  was  prevailing,  persecution  began  again  later  on  and 
continued  for  a  time. 

There  have  been,  therefore,  at  various  periods  in  the  history  of  this 
people  the  various  tests  that  have  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  prove 
their  devotion  to  the  truth,  and  their  willingness  to  maintain  it.  The 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  remains  the  truth.  It  is,  as  stated,  the  whole 
truth,  it  is  divine  truth,  it  is  the  will  of  the  Lord.  When  the  Lord  speaks 
to  man,  through  his  prophets,  as  he  has  done,  as  recorded  in  the  scrip- 
ture, it  becomes  his  word  and  his  will ;  it  becomes  scripture ;  it  becomes 
the  truth  to  mankind.  While  social  and  political  conditions  may  vary 
at  different  periods  of  the  world's  history,  the  fundamental  truths  of 
the  gospel  remain.  Those  precepts  that  are  essential  to  man's  salvation 
endure.  So  these  necessary  principles  of  the  gospel,  restored  in  these 
days,  remain  as  fundamental  truths.  They  are  unchangeable  and  in- 
variable. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  been  loyal  have  accepted  and  re- 
tained these  principles,  and  they  will  always  retain  them,  for  they  are 
true.  There  may  be  those  who  will  fall  away  from  the  truth,  whether 
it  be  as  a  result  of  persecution  or  whether  it  be  because  of  the  pleasures 
of  the  world.  Whether  it  be  the  luxuries  or  the  wealth  that  comes  to 
men,  there  are  those  who  cannot  endure  the  conditions  necessary  to  ob- 
serve the  plain,  simple,  divine  truths  which  make  for  salvation  and  for 
the  blessing  of' mankind.  But  their  failure  does  not  alter  the  truth,  nor 
stay  its  progress. 

Fortunately,  at  the  present  time,  there  is  very  little  persecution  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  anywhere;  but  there  are  influences  of  the  world 
among  us  in  this  community,  and,  in  fact,  influences  in  the  world  every- 
where, that  tend  to  draw  men  and  women  away  from  the  truths  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  We  recognize  the  fact  that  while  the  Latter-day  Saints 
claim  to  possess  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness,  and  are  en- 
deavoring to  live  in  accordance  therewith,  there  are  many  other  people 
in  the  world  who  are  living  in  accordance  with  principles  of  truth  that 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


form  a  part  of  the  gospel.  These  are  essential  for  the  welfare,  growth 
and  development  of  mankind,  in  the  promotion  of  ideals  and  the  prac- 
tices that  shall  enahle  them  to  accomplish  the  greatest  good  in  life,  and 
at  the  same  time  prepare  themselves  for  eternity. 

There  are,  however,  efforts  and  influences  abroad  in  the  <world 
which  tend  to  draw  people  away  from  the  truth,  and  from  these  prin- 
ciples which  make  for  growth  and  development.  Such  influences  are 
at  work  among  us  here.  There  is  a  growing"  tendency  toward  a  spirit 
of  vulgarity,  of  profanity,  and  of  obscenity,  that  is  most  disgusting  in 
its  nature.  If  we  go,  for  instance,  to  the  theatres  today,  we  find  the  use 
of  profanity, — the  taking  of  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain — a  most 
common  and  offensive  practice.  It  is  also  noticeable  in  many  of  the 
magazines  that  are  widely  circulated.  Also,  the  jokes,  stories  and 
actions  on  the  stage,  and  in  magazines,  are,  in  too  many  instances,  so 
vulgar  and  even  obscene  as  to  be  revolting,  to  say  the  least.  They  are 
having  their  influence  upon  many  people,  particularly  the  young  people. 
So,  these  deceptive  efforts  are  abroad,  and  their  purpose  undeniably  is 
to  draw  boys  and  girls,  and  men  and  women,  away  from  the  truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  and  especially  my  brethren  who  bear 
the  Priesthood,  who  carry  responsibility  as  presidencies  of  stakes,  as 
bishoprics  of  wards,  and  all  who  have  received  this  Priesthood,  our 
responsibility  and  our  opportunity — and  also  primarily  the  responsibility 
of  fathers  and  mothers — is  to  endeavor  to  teach  our  children  to  restrain 
themselves  in  those  thoughts,  practices  or  habits  that  will  tend  to  de- 
generate them,  or  tend  to  reduce  their  will-power,  or  their  mastery  of 
themselves.  It  is  our  business  to  train  them,  and  forewarn  them  that 
if  such  habits  are  cultivated,  or  if  they  are  allowed  to  grow  in  their 
minds,  or  any  other  habits  of  like  character,  they  will  tend  to  lead  them 
away  from  this  everlasting  truth. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  every  one  of  us,  that  we  may  recog- 
nize these  signs  and  these  dangers.  We  realize  that  there  are  influences 
abroad  that  are  just  as  insidious,  just  as  dangerous  for  the  maintenance 
of  the  standing  and  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  there  were  in 
the  days  when  persecution  prevailed.  At  the  same  time,  we  as  a  people 
should  recognize  the  great  heritage  that  has  come  to  us  from, our  fathers 
through  their  stability,  of  faith,  devotion,  and  love  of  the  truth ;  and 
measure  up  to  that  responsibility  by  training  our  children  and  those 
under  our  care,  through  example  and  good  counsel,  to  resist  these  habits 
and  tendencies  that  will  lead  them  away  from  the  truth  and  into 
error,  and  cause  them  sadness  and  sorrow.  The  gospel  is  a  great 
ideal,  a  great  set  of  principles,  that  makes  for  growth  and  development, 
for  happiness  and  peace.  It  will  prevail  and  triumph,  whether  or  not 
any  of  us,  individually,  shall  be  able  to  endure  in  faith. 

May  the  Lord  help  and  bless  us  that  we  may  measure  up  to  these 
opportunities  and  responsibilities,  that  we  may  be  able  to  stem  this  tide 
and  these  influences  that  are  abroad,  to  maintain  those  plain  and  simple 
standards  of  truth  and  of  righteousness  that  shall  make  for  happiness, 
peace,  joy,  and  finally  for  salvation,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER   CHARLES  H.  HART 


139 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

As  announced  in  this  conference,  I  have  been  called  to  preside  over 
the  Canadian  mission.  The  call  came  to  me  at  the  close  of  a  busy 
day  on  February  3,  and  on  February  14  I  was  on  my  journey  to  that  his- 
toric field,  opened  nearly  ninety-five  years  ago  by  Joseph  Young,  the 
father  of  our  late  and  beloved  Seymour  B.  Young.  I  thought  it  was 
an  appropriate  thing  to  have  a  Seventy  called  to  that  field,  opened 
by  the  man  who  was  the  first  Seventy  and  the  first  president  of  Seventy 
in  this  dispensation.  He  was  accompanied  by  Phinehas  H.  Young, 
Elial  Strong  and  Eleazer  Miller.  In  six  weeks'  time  they  had  raised 
up  a  branch  of  the  Church  at  Ernesttown,  Ontario. 

The  Reverend  Harry  Emerson  Fosdick,  who  has  been  referred  to 
in  this  conference,  has  just  issued  a  book  bearing  date  August,  1926, 
called  Adventurous  Religion.  By  that  he  means  the  same  spirit  and 
zeal  and  adventurous  living  that  characterized  the  introduction  of  the 
gospel  in  the  days  of  the  Savior.  He  characterizes  the  incidents  con- 
nected with  Paul's  ministry  as  "the  most  influential  uprush  of  spiritual 
power  in  human  history  ;"  that  "Christianity  began  in  a  great  adventure" 
and  that  "the  life  to  which  Jesus  summoned  men  required  insight  and 
bravery  to  undertake,  and  fortitude  to  continue."  If  the  Reverend  Fos- 
dick would  know  of  adventurous  religion  in  this  age,  he  need  only 
consult  the  history  of  the  Canadian  mission. 

Elder  Brigham  Young  made  his  way  to  Canada,  in  December, 
1832,  wading  through  deep  snow  and  crossing  the  lake  when  the  ice 
was  so  thin  that  it  bent  under  the  weight  of  him  and  his  companion, 
who  could  not  walk  together,  the  water  above  the  ice  wetting  their 
shoes.  He  and  his  brother  Joseph  Young  raised  up  a  branch  in  West 
Loughborough,  after  baptizing  forty-five  souls.  Elder  Brigham  Young, 
in  July,  1833,  returned  to  Kirtland,  Ohio,  accompanied  by  some  twenty 
or  thiry  new  converts.  That  was  followed  by  the  labors  of  Elder 
Orson  Pratt.  In  fact,  Elder  Pratt  thought  he  was  the  first  in  this 
dispensation  to  preach  the  gospel  in  Canada.  He  was  followed  by 
Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt,  in  1836,  and  what  wonderful  fruits  these  men 
had  in  the  ministry.  John  Taylor  was  providentially  found  in  the 
city  of  Toronto,  and  afterwards,  as  you  know,  he  became  president  of 
the  Church.  I  am  a  little  ahead  of  my  story,  chronologically.  I  should 
record  the  fact  that  Presidents  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  preach- 
ed in  this  historic  -field.  Old  father  Nickerson  and  his  wife,  of  Mount 
Pleasant,  Ontario,  drove  to  Kirtland  and  brought  the  Prophet  Joseph  and 
Sidney  Rigdon  to  Mount  Pleasant.  There  is  a  graphic  account  of  this 
visit,  by  Lydia  Knight  (whose  maiden  name  was  Lydia  Bailey)  in  her 
History,  on  pages  14  to  23.  Lawyers  abbreviate  by  using  exhibits. 
May  we  refer  to  these  pages  as  an  exhibit  to  be  read  as  an  example  of 
"adventurous  religion." 

Someone  has  suggested  that  Canada  is  really  entitled  to  much 
credit  in  opening  up  the  British  mission,  because  four  of  the  converts 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  Canada  accompanied  Elders  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Willard'Richards  and 
Orson  Hyde  to  the  British  mission,  referred  to  today.  One  of  those 
persons  was  Joseph  Fielding,  the  brother  of  Mary  and  Mercy  Fielding. 

From  this  early  work  we  can  get  some  insight  into  what  the  Lord 
no  doubt  meant  in  telling  Joseph  Smith  to  "be  not  weary  in  well  doing ;" 
that  "from  things  that  are  small  proceedeth  that  which  is  great;"  that 
souls  are  precious  in  the  sight  of  God,  and  if  it  be  that' "one  spends 
all  his  days  in  bringing  save  it  be  one  soul  into  the  fold,  how  great 
shall  be  his  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father."  Mary  Field- 
ing now  stands  at  the  head  of  a  posterity  numbering  several  hundred, 
representing,  as  it  were,  a  great  cone  of  righteous  humanity  with  the 
apex  pointing  to  Mary  Fielding  Smith,  the  wife  of  the  Patriarch, 
and  with  a  base  ever  widening  as  the  years  come  and  go. 

I  had  a  glorious  experience  in  this  mission,  in  "swinging  around 
the  circuit,"  touching  the  great  cities  of  Hamilton,  London,  Toronto, 
headquarters  of  the  mission;  Ottawa,  where  the  Dominion  Parliament 
was  in  session,  the  great  city  of  Montreal;  Halifax,  in  Nova  Scotia; 
the  old  city  of  St.  John,  New  Brunswick ;  and  the  cities  of  Bangor 
and  Portland,  Maine,  and  back  again  to  headquarters. 

While  at  Toronto  a  friend  entertaining  us  for  dinner,  with  evident 
pride,  showed  me  a  copy  of  the  new  Catholic  Encyclopedia.  He  him- 
self had  studied  for  the  Catholic  ministry,  but  was  still  connected  with 
a  protestant  church.  He  explained  to  me  that  this  edition  of  the  Cath- 
olic Encyclopedia  had  been  sponsored  by  the  Knights  of  Columbus.  He 
called  my  attention  to  an  article  under  the  heading  of  "Mormons." 
Hastily  glancing  through  it,  I  was  agreeably  surprised  at  the  fair  treat- 
ment of  the  subject  throughout,  with  the  exception  of  two  or  three 
sentences.  One  sentence  is  very  closely  connected  with  the  important 
event  of  the  erection  and  dedication  the  other  day  of  a  monument  to 
the  Three  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  In  the  edition  of  the 
Encyclopedia  mentioned  there  is  a  statement  that  the  Three  Witnesses, 
whom  we  honor  now  by  a  beautiful  little  monument  upon  these  grounds, 
had  denied  their  testimony.  I  did  not  take  a  copy  of  the  exact  words 
of  the  later  edition,  but  the  earlier  edition,  the  one  copyrighted  in  1911, 
uses  this  language: 

"In  renouncing  'Mormonism'  subsequently,  Cowdery,  Whitmer  and 
Harris,  the  three  principal  witnesses,  declared  this  testimony  false." 

I  am  sure  that  the  Knights  of  Columbus,  if  responsible  for  this 
error,  will  be  pleased  to  correct  it  when  their  attention  is  called  to  it. 
because  the  statement  is  contrary  to  the  facts.  My  father,  James 
H.  Hart,  interviewed  David  Whitmer,  in  1883.  The  interview  was  re- 
duced to  the  form  of  verse,  afterwards  read  and  approved  by  David 
Whitmer.  It  was  published  in  the  October,  1883,  number  of  the  Con- 
tributor, vol.  5,  pages  9  and  10,  to  which  I  again  make  a  reference  for 
the  sake  of  brevity. 

David  Whitmer  said: 

"My  written  statement  I  have  ne'er  denied. 
I  saw  the  angel,  and  I  heard  his  voice 
And  wondrous  things,  that  made  my  heart  rejoice." 


ELDER    CHARLES  .H.  HART 


141 


After  giving  an  account  of  the  visitation  to  him  of  the  angel, 
he  said : 

"If  this  be  not  the  truth,  there  is  no  truth, 
And  I  have  been  mistaken  from  my  youth ; 
If  I'm  mistaken,  you  may  know  from  thence, 
That  there's  no  God,  no  law,  no  life,  no  sense. 

"I  know  there  is  a  God — I've  heard  his  voice, 
And  in  his  power  and  truth  do  still  rejoice; 
Though  fools  may  ridicule  and  laugh  today, 
They  shall  know  the  truth  of  what  I  say." 

"I've  suffered  persecution  at  the  hands 
Of  hireling  preachers,  and  their  Christian  bands ; 
I've  braved  their  hatred,  and  have  them  withstood 
While  thirsting  for  the  youthful  Prophet's  blood. 

"They  came,  four  hundred  strong,  with  visage  bold 
And  said,  'Deny  this  story  you  have  told  ; 
And  by  our  sacred  honor,  we'll  engage 
To  save  you  from  the  mob's  infuriate  rage.' 

"A  mighty  power  came  on  me,  and  I  spake 
In  words  that  made  the  guilty  mobbers  quake ; 
And  trembling  seized  the  surging  crowd,  and  fear ; 
But  left  unharmed,  I  felt  that  God  was  near." 

Had  he  been  disposed  to  deny  his  testimony,  a  good  time  would 
have  been  when  the  mob  came. 

I  would  also  like  to  refer  to  an  affidavit  dictated  by  Charles  M. 
Nielsen,  formerly  a  city  judge  of  this  city,  of  a  court  room  testimony  of 
Oliver  Cowdery.  Again,  I  shall  refer  to  this  as  an  exhibit,  to  be  read 
by  you  later  when  the  same  may  be  published.  It  is  a  court  scene  in 
Michigan,  with  Oliver  Cowdery  prosecuting  a  murder  case.  The  at- 
torney for  the  defense  said  in  a  very  sarcastic  manner : 

"I  hope,  Mr.  Cowdery,  that  when  you  are  going  to  reply  to  my  argument  to 
the  jury  that  you  will  tell  us  something  about  the  angel  who  came  down  in  his 
night  clothes  while  you  and  Joe  Smith  were  digging  golden  plates  out  of  the 
Cumorah  hill,  by  which  you  have  deluded  so  many  thousands  of  our  countrymen, 
by  deceiving  them  in  regard  to  the  coming  forth  of  a  certain  book  callied  the 
Book  of  Mormon." 


The  narrative  continues: 

"Finally  Oliver  Cowdery's  turn  came  to  reply.  I  shall  never  forget  how  his 
face  looked,  no  matter  how  long  I  shall  live.  He  was  as  calm  as  a  summer 
morning.  There  was  no  anger  in  his  face  or  in  his  words.  In  addressing  the 
court  and  the  jury  he  said:  ' 

"  'Oh,  I  do  wish  that  I  could  escape  replying  to  the  challenge  of  my  brother 
attorney  representing  the  defendant  in  this  case,  but  I  can  not.  I  dare  not.  The 
angel  that  appeared  to  us  was  not  a  dream.  It  was  not  in  the  night  time.  It 
was  in  the  day  time  while  the  sun  was  shining  brightly  on  a  clear  beautiful  day. 
We  were  praying  in  turn  as  we  were  kneeling  on  the  ground  and  while  in  the 
attitude  of  prayer,  a  brilliant  light  surrounded  us,  the  glory  of  which  I  can  not 
describe.  It  even  surpassed  the  brilliancy  of  the  sun.  A  beautiful  personage 
stood  before  us,  about  two  feet  from  the  ground,  and  he  told  us  that  his  nam.' 
was  Moroni,  and  he  declared  to  us  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  had  been  translated 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  and  he  commanded  us  to  bear  witness  of  the  fact, 
and  he  said,  'If  you  ever  deny  what  you  have  seen  and  heard  here  from  me  to- 
day, there  is  no  forgiveness  for  you  in  this  life  nor  in  the  life  to  come.'  " 

There  are  other  interesting  matters  contained  in  this  affidavit  that 
you  may  read  at  your  leisure;  also,  another  affidavit  now  being-  pre- 
pared at  my  suggestion  by  Elder  William  H.  Homer,  who  interviewed 
Martin  Harris  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  and  heard  his  dying  declaration, 
and  that  is  the  point  that  I  am  coming  to — the  force  of  a  dying  declara.- 
tion. 

As  President  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  and  I  passed  through  the  town 
of  Bellville,  Ontario,  there  was  on  trial  before  Judge  Logie  a  murder 
case  in  which  the  prosecuting  attorney  presented  an  ante-mortem  state- 
ment, a  dying  declaration,  by  one  Charles  St.  Charles,  a  court  bailiff 
who  had  been  shot  down.  The  principal  testimony  for  the  Crown 
was  a  dying  declaration  of  Mr.  St.  Charles.  The  jury,  after  hearing 
the  evidence,  and  being  instructed  by  the  court  as  to  the  weight  that 
should  be  attached  to  a  dying  declaration,  brought  in  a  verdict  of  not 
guilty,  and  then  a  very  unusual  thing  occurred.  The  judge  evidently 
thought  that  the  jury  had  disregarded  the  instructions  of  the  court  or  the 
argument  of  counsel  for  the  Crown  as  to  the  weight  of  a  dying  declara- 
tion, and  rebuked  the  jury  by  telling  the  defendant  that  he  might  as  easily 
have  been  convicted  as  acquitted  upon  the  testimony  taken,  and  that 
the  court  was  not  satisfied  with  the  verdict  and  would  report  the  case 
further.  The  English  press  in  its  conservative  way  criticized  the 
judge  for  his  invasion  of  the  rights  of  the  jury,  but  it  indicated  the 
weight  he  thought  was  attached  very  properly  to  a  dying  declaration 
under  British  law,  a  rule  so  strong  in  the  law  that  judges  in  the  states 
follow  this  rule,  notwithstanding  the  sixth  amendment  to  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States,  which  guarantees  to  every  man  the  right  to 
be  confronted  by  the  witnesses  against  him.  The  force  of  a  dying  state- 
ment was  understood  in  the  time  of  Shakespeare,  as  indicated  in  his 
play  of  "King  John,"  where  one  Melum,  on  his  death  bed,  gives  evi- 
dence of  the  contemplated  treachery  of  Louis,  a  French  lord.  When 
not  believed  Melum  exclaims : 

"Have  I  not  hideous  death  before  my  view, 
Retaining  but  a  quantity  of  life, 
Which  bleeds  away  even  as  a  form  of  wax 
Resolveth  from  the  figure  'gainst  the  fire? 
What  in  the  world  should  make  me  now  deceive, 
Since  I  must  lose  the  use  of  .all  deceit? 
Why  should  I  then  be  false, 
Since  it  is  true  that  I  must  die  here, 
And  live  hence  by  truth?" 

The  underlying  strength  of  a  dying  declaration  is  given  by  jurists 
of  the  Supreme  Court  of  one  of  our  American  states  as  follows : 

'When  dissolution  is  approaching  and  the  dying  man  has  lost  all  hope  of 
life,  and  the  shadows  of  the  grave  are  gathering  in  around  him' and  his  mind  is 
impressed  with  the  full  sense  of  his  condition,  the  solemnity  of  the  season  and 
hour  gives  to  his  statement  a  sanctity  of  truth  more  impressive  and  potential 
than  the  formalities  of  an  oath,"  etc. 


ELDER    CHARLES   H.  HART 


143 


I  might  say  that  the  testimony  of  each  of  these  three  men  had 
the  weight  of  a  dying  declaration,  as  you  may  plainly  know  from  the 
documents  outstanding  on  that  question.  David  Whitmer,  in  a  dying 
declaration,  as  well  as  these  other  men,  affirmed  the  truth  of  those 
statements ;  so  that  it  is  not  true  that  they  denied  the  testimony  that 
is  attributed  to  them  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  which  is  now  per- 
petuated, not  only  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  but  in  bronze  upon  this 
monument.  I  rejoice  that  our  brethren  were  led  to  erect  a  monument 
to  that  very  important  fact  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

While  at  Toronto,  I  had  an  opportunity  of  going  forward  with  a  little 
commission  that  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  laid  upon  me,  sometime  be- 
fore his  death,  of  following  up  a  discovery  in  that  neighborhood — the  dis- 
covery of  what  is  called  a  "Stone  Cist,"  somewhat  like  the  one  in  which 
the  sacred  plates  were  found  by  Joseph  Smith.  The  following  is  from 
the  Records  of  the  Past,  the  March  and  April  numbers,  1909,  pp.  75 
and  76. 

Discovery  of  stone  Cist  in  Ontario  :  On  the  farm  of  T.  M.  Edmundson,  near 
Streetsville,  in  Peel  county,  (about  22  miles  west  of  Toronto)  in  the  fall  of 
1906.  It  had  slabs  of  stone  for  sides  and  ends,  a  clay  floor  and  no  cap  stones, 
but  these  may  have  been  removed  in  cultivation  years  ago,  without  discovering 
the  side  slabs  which  were  on  level  with  the  ground:  7  feet  x  1  ft.  x  4x/2  feet 
deep.  Stone  cists  have  been  found  in  Tennessee,  Illinois,  at  points  on  the  Dela- 
ware river  and  in  northern  New  Mexico."' 

1  found  some  people  by  that  name  but  have  not  yet  found  Mr. 
T.  M.  Edmundson,  but  I  hope  to  do  so. 

We  had  a  joyful  time  in  meeting  with  the  seventy-five  fine  young 
brethren  and  sisters  who  are  missionaries  in  that  field.  I  did  not  put 
in  my  application,  as  there  are  some  points  connected  with  a  mission 
presidency  that  I  am  not  versed  in  to  begin  with,  but  I  would  like  to 
put  in  my  application  now  for  at  least  one  stake  president  in  each  one 
of  the  eight  districts,  so  that  they  may  be  inclined  to  follow  the  example 
of  President  Chipman  of  Alpine  stake  in  having  a  score  of  their  stake 
'  workers  join  them,  and  then  we  will  be  pretty  well  equipped.  We 
would  also  like  to  have  a  powerful  broadcasting  station  somewhere 
within  the  radius  of  our  mission  field,  and  also  a  moving  picture 
equipment.  It  is  really  a  slow  process  to  hunt  for  men  in  the  mission 
where  you  have  to  persuade  them  to  come  to  our  meetings  and  then 
have  so  few  of  them  there.  We  had  good  meetings  throughout,  but 
light  attendance. 

I  rejoice  in  this  labor,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  These  young 
men  and  young  women  are  going  forward  with  zeal  in  this  work  of 
an  "adventurous  religion."  If  time  permitted  we  might  tell  of  examples 
from  the  experiences  formerly  and  today  in  this  mission,  matching 
those  in  the  ministry  in  the  days  of  Paul.  The  Canadian  missionaries 
have  all  pledged  their  loyalty  and  support  to  this  cause.  They  are 
going  forward  in  response  to  the  commission  given,  as  recorded  in  the 
1st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Hearken.  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken,  ye  people 
from  afar ;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape  ; 
and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither 
heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.    *   *  * 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them." 

And  in  that  same  section  is  a  dignified  presentation  of  the  view 
of  ^he  Lord  in  reference  to  this  Church,  and  it  may  well  be  read  in 
contrast  with  the  indictment  published  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly 
for  March,  1927,  and  referred  to  in  the  Literary  Digest  heretofore 
mentioned  in  this  conference.  Read  that  scathing  indictment,  which 
probably  cannot  be  maintained  upon  all  counts  in  connection  with  the 
dignified  statement  of  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  section 
one,  verse  30  upon  which  we  can,  and  do,  and  must  stand : 

"And  also  those  to  whom  these  commandments  were  given,  might 
have  power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  Church,  and  to  bring  it  forth 
out  of  obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the  only  true  and  living  Church 
upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am  well 
pleased,  speaking  unto  the  Church  collectively  and  not  individually" — 
a  distinction  which  should  always  be  observed  upon  our  part  and  the 
part  of  others. 

Now  if  I  may  conclude  in  the  language  of  that  same  section : 
"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever  ;"  and  that 
is  my  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  believe  this  is  the  third  time  in  my 
life  that  I  have  occupied  a  position  of  this  kind  in  the  Tabernacle  in 
Salt  Lake  City.  I  have  been  on  the  General  Board  of  the  Sunday 
school  for  nearly  twenty  years,  and  twice  I  have  spoken  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  behalf  of  that  organization.  This  is  the  first  time  that 
I  have  been  called  upon  to  speak  in.  general  conference.  I  know,  of 
course,  that  it  is  because  I  have  been  called  to  preside  over  the  Eastern 
States  mission  that  the  President  has  been  kind  enough  to  give  me  this 
privilege. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel  of  Christ. 
I  was  converted  in  the  old  country,  fifty  years  ago,  next  December. 
As  a  young  man  I  felt  very  enthusiastic  about  the  gospel  of  Christ. 
I  can't  remember  the  time,  since  then,  when  I  have  not  had  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  been  called  into  many  dif- 
ferent positions,  civil,  political,  and  otherwise,  but  I  have  always 
been  blessed  by  the  Lord  with  a  knowledge  that  the  gospel  of  Christ, 
as  it  was  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  true,  and  is 
that  which  ought  to  be  preached  to  the  world. 


ELDER    HENRY   H.  ROLAPP 


145 


To  the  extent  of  my  small  ability,  I  shall  go  into  the  world  and 
tell  the  story  of  "Mbrmonism."  I  shall  keep  on  telling  it  until  some- 
one will  believe  it  and  join  the  Church. 

As  I  think  of  the  Church  that  Christ  himself  established,  at  the 
age  that  we  have  attained,  ninety-seven  years,  and  remember  that  the 
apostles  were  not  even  permitted  to  preach  the  gospel  as  we  have  the 
right  to  preach  it,  I  am  glad  of  the  change  in  conditions.  When  a 
person  in  those  days  opened  his  mputh  about  the  gospel  that  the  Master 
had  proclaimed,  he  took  his  life  into  his  hands.  As  I  have  sat  here  and 
listened  to  all  these  men,  these  leaders  of  the  Church,  telling  us  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  and  giving  us  encouragement  in  going  on  with 
the  work,  I  have  recognized  how  much  greater  is  our  opportunity 
for  securing  salvation,  for  securing  a  knowledge  of  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  than  was  given  unto  those  who  lived  in  the  days  of  the 
Master.  Rome  was  the  big  city  when  that  privilege  finally  came,  three 
hundred  or  more  years  after  the  birth  of  Christ.  It  was  Rome,  a  city 
that  was  amongst  the  Gentiles ;  it  was  Rome  that  was  regarded  as  the 
big  Christian  center.  Today  the  Church  of  Christ,  the  big  center  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  is  here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  among  those  who  have 
builded  this  community. 

It  is  true,  as  Brother  Charles  H.  Hart  has  just  been  telling  us, 
that  people  are  beginning  more  patiently  to  listen  to  the  gospel.  There 
isn't  the  same  opposition  to  the  elders  that  there  was  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  years  ago.  We  can  go  out  and  proclaim  the  fact  that  we  belong 
to  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Twenty  or  twenty-five  years  ago  that  was  a 
challenge  for  a  discussion.  Today  it  is  accepted ;  it  is  taken  for  granted. 
The  other  fellow  may  not  believe  it,  but  he  will  stand  and  listen  to 
you.  I  have  experienced  it  in  my  little  life.  I  have  been  acquainted 
with  more  non-"Mormons"  probably  than  I  have  with  persons  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Everyone  knows  that  I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint, 
that  I  am  a  "Mormon,"  and 'they  accept  it,  pay  no  particular  attention 
to  it,  but  they  accept  it  as  a  fact.  That  is  going  to  be  a  great  help. 
I  trust  that  we  in  the  Eastern  States  mission  will  take  advantage  of  that 
situation;  that  we  will  go  forward;  that  we  will  preach  the  gospel 
by  day  and  we  will  preach  it  by  night.  We  will  keep'  on  going.  After 
all,  that  is  the  great  thing — to  get  the  knowledge  or  the  belief  into  the 
hearts  of  men,  and  to  get  them  into  the  Church,  and  get  them  so 
that  we  can  lift  them  up.  When  you  and  I  first  entered  we  did  not 
have  much  of  an  understanding  of  the  gospel.  It  came  to  us  by  in- 
spiration from  God  above,  but  as  we  came  along  and  you  helped  and 
everybody  helped  to  give  us  more  instruction,  we  began  to  see  the 
grandeur  of  it  and  we  appreciated  it. 

I  feel  glad  that  I  am  going  on  a  mission.  Though  it  is  late  in  life, 
probably,  I  shall  do  my  best.  I  know  that  I  have  to  follow  a  great  man, 
a  great  orator,  but  I  shall  do  my  best,  so  long  as  the  Lord  shall  keep 
me  in  that  country,  to  convert  the  people  to  the  fact  that  here  in  Utah 
and  surrounding  states  are  the  Saints  of  God,  those  whom  he  has  select- 
ed, as  a  small  number,  to  bring  out  the  truth  in  the  world.  I  pray  God 
that  he  will  bless  us  all  in  doing  that  which  we  can  do,  at  home  or 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


abroad,  preaching  the  gospel  of  Christ,  so  that  we  may  bring  men  into 
this  communion,  all  of  which  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRED  J.  TADJE 

Former  President  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  very  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father 
for  the  opportunity  that  I  have  had  of  fulfiling  a  mission  ampng 
the  German-speaking  people.  I  am  also  very  happy  to  have  this 
privilege  of  being  home  again  and  enjoying  the  association  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters  here  in  Zion.  My  spirit  has  responded  to  the 
treatment  received  during  this  conference.  I  feel  that  we  have  had 
a  spiritual  feast,  for  which  I  have  longed,  a  number  of  years.  I 
mean  by  that,  I  have  longed  for  the  opportunity  of  meeting  again 
with  the  brethren  and  sisters  in  general  conference  assembled. 

I  should  like  to  state,  briefly  this  morning,  just  what  we  have 
been  doing  in  the  mission  field  during  the  last  four  years.  It  is 
now  just  a  little  over  four  years  since  I  left,  with  my  family,  on 
this  mission,  i  Elder  Charles  S.  Hyde,  who  was  called  to  preside  over 
the  Netherlands  mission,  and  a  group  of  elders,  went  with  us.  We 
left  Salt  Lake  City  on  March  16,  1923.  On  the  evening  of  our  de- 
parture from  this  city  it  was  raining,  and  by  morning  we  were  in 
the  midst  of  a  very  cold  and  violent  snow  storm,  which  made  our 
train  eighteen  hours  late  by  the  time  we  arrived  in  Chicago.  I  be- 
came ill  with  grippe  the  first  night  out  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  I 
believe  because  of  the  cold  train  and  lack  of  hospital  accommoda- 
tions, this  cold  brought  on  a  very  severe  case  of  inflammatory 
rheumatism  with  which  I  suffered  very  severely  on  the  whole  trip, 
and  a  month  after  my  arrival  in  the  mission  field.  By  the  time  we 
reached  Liverpool  I  could  hardly  walk.  Only  with  the  greatest  of 
difficulty  was  I  able  to  move  about,  and  when  we.  arrived  in 
Cologne,  which  is  about  two-thirds  of  the  way  from  Liverpool  to 
Basel,  I  was  rendered  so  weak  that  it  was  impossible  for  me  to  go 
on.  We  remained  there  five  days.  During  all  that  time  I  was  con- 
fined to  a  bed  which  was  furnished  by  a  family  of  Saints.  In  fact, 
they  gave  us  the  best  accommodations  possible.  They  turned  over 
to  us  several  rooms,  which  we  appreciated  very  much.  When  I 
arrived  in  Basel  I  was  almost  a  physical  wreck,  but  I  soon  found  a 
place  to  rest  and  expected  to  be  well  again  in  a  few  days.  In  this, 
however,  I  was  very  m,uch  disappointed,  as  I  was  bedridden  for 
nearly  a  month.  I  did  not  have  the  privilege  when  I  arrived  in  the 
mission  field  of  visiting  in  all  the  branches  and  conferences  with 
elder  Serge  Ballif,  who  was  presiding  over  that  mission,  and  whom 
I  was  to  succeed,  for  within  an  hour  of  my  arrival  in  the  mission 
field,  in  Basel.  I  was  confined  to  my  bed.  When  I  had  recovered 
sufficiently  to  leave  my  bedroom,  conferences  were  arranged  for  all 
of  the  sixteen  districts  in  the  mission.  About  two  weeks  before  I 
was  to  start  on  my  trip  I  suffered  a  relapse  and  was  forced  to  return 


ELDER    FRED    J.  TADJE 


147 


to  bed.  My  condition  became  almost  hopeless,  and  I  began  to 
wonder  how  long  it  was  going  to  last.  Discouragement  had  not 
set  in  yet.  for  I  knew  positively  that  the  Lord's  purpose  in  calling 
me  on  this  mission  was  not  that  I  should  spend  my  days  in  bed  sick. 
That  faith  and  assurance  had  been  given  me  before  I  left  this  city, 
thanks  to  the  Lord,  but  I  became  very  anxious  to  meet  the  elders 
and  the  Saints.  I  began  pleading  with  my  heavenly  Father  to  ren- 
der me  physically  fit,  and  to  enable  me  to  accomplish  the  desires  of 
my  heart.  While  I  lay  there  so  helpless,  the  second  time,  I  gave 
every  consideration  to  the  advisability  of  calling  off  these  confer- 
ences. I  consulted  with  our  mission  secretary.  Elder  Kasteler, 
and  we  both  were  agreed  that  I  would  not  be  able  to  fill  these  con- 
ference appointments.  So  he  was  asked  to  give  the  conference 
presidents  notice  of  the  postponement.  As  he  was  leaving  my  bed- 
room— he  was  not  entirely  out  of  my  sight — the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
enlightened  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  reminded  me  of  an 
experience  which  I  had  had  two  or  three  days  before.  I  asked 
Brother  Kasteler  to  return,  and  I  said  to  him :  "It  will  not  be  nec- 
essary for  you  to  write  the  conference  presidents,  for  I  am  going  to 
be  well  in  time  to  attend  those  conferences." 

What  do  you  think  happened?  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  gave  me 
to  understand  that  if  I  really  wanted  to  I  should  be  able  to  fill  those 
appointments.  Elder  Kasteler  marvelled  about  it,  and  in  spite  of 
my  pains,  I  felt  like  shouting  hosannas  to  the  Lord  for  his  good- 
ness unto  me.  Did  I  really  want  to  be  out  in  the  field?  Yes,  in 
very  deed.  I  knew  positively  that  I  was  going  to  be  well,  for  I 
wanted  to  be  among  those  elders  and  Saints ;  and  so  it  came  true ! 
The  Lord  heard  my  prayers  and  granted  me  the  desire  of  my  heart. 
I  hope  I  shall  never  be  found  ungrateful  to  the  Lord  by  forgetting 
this  incident  and  a  number  -of  others  of  a  similar  character  which  I 
experienced  during  this  last  mission. 

The  physician  warned  me  not  to  leave  on  this  trip.  It  was  the 
rainy  season.  It  had  rained  almost  incessantly.  He  felt  I  was  go- 
ing out  too  soon  after  such  a  siege  of  illness.  He  turned  to  me  and 
said:  "Mr.  Tadje,  if  I  had  complete  control  over  you,  you  would 
not  go  away,  but  you  would  remain  right  here  and  take  baths  and 
other  treatments ;  because  a  recurrence  of  that  rheumatism  through 
the  same  cause  might  incapacitate  you  for  life."  He  was  in  earnest, 
but  I  smiled  and  assured  him  that  nothing  like  that  was  going  to 
take  place,  and  it  did  not,  for  I  never  had  another  .sick  day  on  my 
mission.  My  health  improved  from  day  to  day,  and  it  appeared  that 
traveling  during  the  inclement  season  did  me  good  instead  of  harm. 
When  I  returned  from  my  first  trip,  which  lasted  approximately 
three  months,  I  had  completely  recovered. 

The  mission  made  progress  by  leaps  and  bounds.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  touched  the  hearts  of  the  honest  seekers  for  the  truth. 
No  man  living  can  rightfully  claim  credit  for  the  success  the  mis- 
sion enjoyed.  During  the  last  four  years  over  five  thousand^  souls 
were  baptized  in  the  Church  in  those  countries.    It>  was  a  joy  to 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hold  conferences  because  of  the  host  of  people  who  would  attend. 
Frequently  there  were  a  thousand  and  more  people  in  attendance, 
at  which  four  hundred,  five  hundred,  or  six  hundred,  were  friends 
eager  to  hear  our  message.  It  was  a  common  occurrence  during  the 
years  of  11923  and  1924  to  have  a  good-sized  baptism  after  each  con- 
ference. We  baptized  possibly  from  twenty  or  thirty  to  forty  within 
a  week  or  two  weeks  after  this  conference.  We  held  these  con- 
ferences every  Sunday. 

It  might  interest  you  to  know  that  we  have  splendidly  organ- 
ized Sunday  schools  in  the  mission,  also  Relief  Societies,  Mutual 
Improvement  associations  of  the  Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies, 
and  before  we  were  released  the  -  Primary  organizations  were  al- 
ready functioning  in  a  few  of  the  larger  branches,  but  they  were 
not  known  by  that  name.  This  work  was  done  in  connection  with 
the  Sunday  schools.  Also  a  very  remarkable  work  is  done  in  the 
mission  by  our  choirs.  Organizations  of  one  hundred  voices,  or 
more,  would  furnish  the  music  at  our  special  meeting's  and  confer- 
ences. Our  local  members  in  the  mission  are  very  diligent  in 
•spreading  the  gospel.  I  have  in  mind  a  widow  in  the  city  of 
Chemjnitz,  who  used  to  bring  over  twenty  children  to  Sunday 
school  each  Sunday  morning.  These  were  children  of  her  neigh 
bors.  Several  rows  of  chairs  were  reserved  for  her  each  Sunday 
morning  by  the  superintendency,  and  a  similar  work  was  done  by 
these  brethren  and  sisters  throughout  the  whole  mission. 

Due  to  the  phenomenal  success  in  the  mission,  as  to  making 
converts,  it  became  apparent  that  more  efficient  wor,k  could  be 
done  and  many  new  members  could  be  taught  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  more  efficiently,  and  the  priesthood  and  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions could  be  looked  after  better,  if  the  mission  were  divided.  The 
presiding  brethren  saw  fit  to  do  this,  so  the  division  was  effected 
in  1925.  President  Hugh  J.  Cannon  was  appointed  to  preside  over 
the  western  part  of  the  former  Swiss  and  German  mission,,  and  I 
was  transferred  to  preside  over  the  eastern  part  of  the  mission  with 
headquarters  at  Dresden. 

Many  new  fields  have  been  opened  up  during  the  last  year,  and 
I  am  sure  that  thousands  will  yet  accept  the  gospel  in  that  coun- 
try, provided  the  conditions  remain  as  favorable  as  they  are  at  the 
present  time.  Germany  is  in  very  deed  a  fruitful  field.  Our  mis- 
sionaries are  enjoying  perfect  freedom ;  and  let  me  assure  you  they 
are  doing  a  good  work.  Some  of  them  will  even  do  a  better  work  if 
no  opportunity  is  given  them  by  our  good  parents  here  at  home  to 
spend  money  lavishly,  comparatively  speaking.  Some  elders  get 
along  with  less  than  fifteen  dollars  a  month  in  the  mission,  others 
spend  twenty-five  and  a  number  of  them,  possibly  the  average, 
thirty  dollars  a  month.  I  think  the  parents  should  not  send  more 
than  about  thirty  dollars  a  month  unless  these  elders  are  assigned 
to  labor  in  new  fields.  Remember  high  expenditures  lessen  the 
spirituality  of  the  elders.  The  German  people  are  very  hospitable, 
and  the  members  of  the  Church  even  more  so.    They  give  food. 


'ELDER    FRED    J.  TADJE 


149 


shelter,  clothes  and  money  to  the  Lord's  servants.  You  have  read 
what  the  revelation  says  about  such  people.  We  read  in  Section 
84  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  follows : 

"And  whoso  receiveth  you,  there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before  your 
face.  I  will  be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  left,  and  my  Spirit  shall  be  in 
your  hearts,  and  mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 

"Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me;  and  the  same  will  feed  you,  and  clothe 
you,  and  give  you  money. 

"And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  nowise 
lose  his  reward. 

"And  he  that  doeth  not  these  things  is  not  my  disciple;  by  this  you  may 
know  my  disciples." 

I  feel  that  there  are  many  disciples  in  the  Swiss  and  German 
and  the  German-Austrian  missions,  for  they  do  feed  the  elders  of 
the  Church,  they  give  our  elders  money,  and  they  look  upon  them, 
as  real  servants  of  the  Almighty.  The  Saints  do  more  than  this ; 
they  observe  the  law  of  tithing  in  a  most  remarkable  manner,  and 
they  fail  not  to  donate  liberally  to  the  fast  offering  account.  The 
mission  ranks  very  high  in  these  activities.  I  should  like  to  show 
you  just  by  one  or  two  incidents,  for  I  haven't  time  for  more,  how 
the  attitude  of  the  people  toward  the  Church  and  its  members  has 
changed  in  Germany.  Professor  Thomas  A.  Beal,  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah,  was  invited  to  deliver  a  lecture  on  Utah  and  the  "Mor- 
m(ons;."  at  the  University  of  Berlin,  on  the  night  of  December  15, 
1925.  There  were  from  three  hundred  to  four  hundred  people  in 
attendance,  and  the  address  was  well  received.  Before  1914  this 
would  have  been  an  impossibility.  Also  Elders  David  O.  McKay 
and  James  E.  Talmage,  myself  and  many  other  elders  have  had 
the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel  in  the  school  halls  of 
Prussia  and  in  the  City  Hall  of  Berlin.  This  would  have  been 
simply  impossible  prior  to  the  time  of  the  Great  War. 

I  could  relate  other  incidents  to  show  you  how  the  local  mem- 
bers are  respected  now  in  the  mission,  whereas  formerly  they  were 
despised  by  city  officials.  I  may  possibly  be  permitted  to  relate  an 
incident  that  took  place  at  the  unveiling  of  the  memorial  tablet  in 
honor  of  Karl  G.  Maeser,  so  that  it  will  go  into  the  record.  The 
present  owner  of  the  property  where  Karl  G.  Maeser  was  born  did 
not  object  to  our  erecting  a  tablet  in  his  honor.  I  made  a  number 
of  visits  to  the  place,  and  each  visit  resulted  in  a  religious  conver- 
sation. He  was  always  glad  to  see  me  and  welcomed  me  in  his 
home,  but  of  all  things  in  the  world  religion  interested  him,  the 
least.  He  said  :  "Mr.  Tadje,  I  simply  cannot  believe  in  the  exist- 
ence of  a  God.  I  have  heard  and  seen  too  much  of  ministers  who 
are  insincere ;  therefore,  the  churches  do  not  interest  me.  I  cannot 
and  will  not  trouble  my  mind  about  God  and  religion."  I  would 
hear  that  story  every  time  that  I  conversed  with  him.  At  the  close 
of  the  dedicatorial  services  I  noticed  that  his  little  garden,  in  front 
of  the  house,  had  been  trampled  on  by  our  people,  and  it  did  not 
look  very  good.   I  told  him  how  sorry  I  was  that  we  had  ruined  his 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


little  garden,  but  he  said  to  me  in  all  sincerity:  "Mr.  Tadje,  our 
kind,,  heavenly  Father  will  let  it  grow  again,  I  am  sure."  He  added : 
"You  may  be  surprised  at  hearing  me  talk  that  way,  but,  Mr.  Tadje, 
I  tell  you  my  heart  is  full,  my  feelings  almost  overwhelm!  me;  be- 
cause, what  I  have  seen  and  heard,  today,  convinces  me  that  there 
is  a  just  God  in  heaven."  So  impressive,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
were  the  services  incident  to  the  unveiling  of  this  memorial  tablet. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  pos- 
itively that  the  gospel  is  true ;  I  know  positively  that  the  super- 
natural elements,  to  which  our  esteemed  President  referred  in  his 
opening  remarks,  exist  in  the  Church  today.  The  Lord  has  been 
with  us,  and  may  he  continue  to  bless  us ;  m,ay  we  abide  in  the  faith 
continually  by  observing  his  commandments,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

1  noticed,  by  an  editorial  in  the  paper  this  morning,  that  a  monu- 
ment is  !to  be  erected  in  ,honor  of  the  pioneer  mothers  of  this  great 
country  of  ours.  I  was  thrilled  when  1  read  the  account,  and  happy 
when  I  was  informed  a  ;few  weeks  ago  that  the  monument  de- 
signed in  sculpture,  by  a  Utah  son,  Mahonri  Young,  would  pos- 
sibly be  accepted  by  the  judges  in  the  contest.  As  I  see  before  me 
a  number  of  pioneer  mothers,  I  wish  to  say,  on  this  occasion,  that 
I  am  very  grateful  to  God  that  the  wonderful  work  of  the  pioneer 
mothers,  who  blazed  the  trails  into  the  wilds  of  America,  is  to  be 
recognized.  For,  if  there  ever  lived  fine  womanhood,  women  who 
loved  God  and  gave  to  the  work  of  God  all  that  was  best,  it  was  the 
pioneer  mothers  of  this  country  and  this  great  state. 

Ten  years  ago,  this  morning,  President  Woodrow  iWilson,  before 
the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  proclaimed  war  against  Germany, 
and  the  United  States  entered  that  great  contest.  You  pioneer  mothers 
sent  forth  your  sons  and  your  grandsons.  They  fought  in  the  war, 
they  fell  in  battle,  but  they  honored  you  in  maintaining  the  finer  ideals 
of  civilization.  The  war  was  ended  a  few  years  ago,  but  there  are  some 
things  greatly  needed  by  all  peoples  of  the  world.  The  world  today 
needs  a  higher  morality,  and  to  attain  such  it  must  recognize  the 
existence  of  a  divine  Will  and  Personality,  more  than  ever  before. 
The  idea  that  good  can  be  disassociated  from  the  idea  of  God  is  wrong. 
The  world  since  the  war  needs  a  finer  system,  not  only  of  religion,  but 
of  effort  for  a  larger  righteousness.  This  will  be  the  greatest  pre- 
ventive of  war.  Nations  must  have  a  deeper  consciousness  of  the 
personal  relationship  between  God  and  the  individual,  and  a  broader 
philosophy  of  history  which  attempts  to  unfold  the  divine  purpose  in 
the  rise  and  progress  of  nations.  What  the  world  needs,  therefore,  is 
character,  the  kind  of  character  that  you  pioneer  mothers  taught  your 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


151 


sons  and  your  daughters ;  and  it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which 
brings  out  the  idea  of  a  belief  in  God,  a  God  who  is  righteous  and 
loving — a  person.  This  must  lie  at  the  root  of  character,  and  today  the 
Latter-day  Saints  realize  more  than  ever  that  it  is  revelation  that  gives  a 
new  impulse  to  the  spiritual  advance  of  humanity. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  life  is  a  spiritual  gift  and  a  spiritual  op- 
portunity. Salvation  means  the  recovery  of  life.  It  was  the  Apostle 
Peter  who  wrote  and  said:  "His  divine  purpose  has  granted  to  us  all 
things  that  pertain  to  life  and  to  godliness,  through  the  knowledge  of 
him  who  called  us  by  his  own  glory  and  virtue." 

There  has  been  ushered  into  the  world  a  new  force  in  history,  and 
this  was  accomplished  a  hundred  years  ago  by  a  barefoot  boy,  a  child, 
who  hardly  had  enough  to  eat,  but  who  had  linked  his  life  with  God's. 
His  name  was  Joseph  Smith.  He  was  the  "Mormon"  prophet,  the 
prophet  of  this  new  dispensation,  and  was  born  at  the  beginning 
of  the  nineteenth  century.  It  was  a  new  age  of  the  world's  history. 
The  government  of  the  United  States  had  been  organized.  The  common 
man  had  come  into  his  own.  The  government  under  which  we  live  had 
acclaimed  for  the  first  time  in  all  history  that  man  is  endowed  with 
certain  inalienable  rights,  among  which  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit 
of  happiness.  The  constitution  of  the  United  States  had  written  large : 
"We,  the  people" !  It  was  the  common  man  who  was  speaking,  the. 
man  upon  whose  shoulders  rested  the  great  work  of  the  new  age.  So 
this  new  prophet  came  at  an  opportune  time,  for  a  new  age  had  come ; 
a  new  age  for  the  extending  of  the  message  of  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord 
was  to  be  ushered  in.  To  the  world  this  Joseph  Smith  announced  the 
word  of  God  direct  from  heaven.  The  Priesthood  of  God  was  restored 
with  all  its  rights,  powers  and  blessings.  The  Church  of  Christ  was 
reestablished  and  the  knowledge  of  man's  divine  relationship  to  God 
was  reaffirmed.  The  world  was  given  a  new  faith.  Michelet,  the 
French  historian,  said  at  the  beginning  of  that  century:  "If  there  is 
anything  in  the  world  that  is  needed,  it  is  a  new  faith  in  Christ  our 
Lord."  This,  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  asserted  with  a  clearer 
vision,  a  deeper  knowledge,  the  kingdom  of  God  and  its  establishment 
upon  the  earth.  It  teaches  the  truth  of  God  the  Father  and  the  infinite 
value  of  the  human  soul.  It  restores  the  higher  righteousness  and  the 
commandment  of  love.  It  summons  all  men  to  Christ  and  says  to  them : 
"Rise  up  and  be  God's  children."  All  must  labor  and  put  their  hands, 
hearts  and  minds  to  the  work  of  progress.  Eternal  progression  and  the 
immortality  of  the  soul  give,  us  the  key  to  the  higher  life  beyond.  So 
through  the  work  of  this  prophet  a  new  day  has  dawned  with  a  new  sky 
over  our  heads.  For  in  religion  as  in  other  things  men  are  not  owned 
any  more  but  are  guided.  This  religion  of  Christ,  our  Lord, 
claims  today  that  men  of  truth  are  living  more  than  ever  in  all  history. 
This  man  Joseph  Smith,  therefore,  was  not  a  Calvin  nor  a  Luther  nor 
a  Zwingli.  He  was  far  more  than  they  were ;  he  was  a  prophet  of  fire, 
with  a  moral  intensity,  believing  and  teaching  that. the  Kingdom  of 
Heaven  is  near  at  hand.  He  believed  and  taught  that  wrong  and  injustice, 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


unrighteousness  and  sin,  could  not.  stand  before  the  oncoming  of  the 
kingdom  of  righteousness.  The  hearts  of  men  are  to  be  turned  to  usher 
in  ithe  kingdom  and  the  glory  of  God.  Prophet  and  seer,  he  was  the 
great  interpreter  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ  to  the  new  thought  of  the  new 
world.  He  did  not  arrive  at  truth  by  a  logical  process.  He  perceived 
it.  Truth  was  spiritually  discerned.  So  today,  for  a  nation  to  enter 
into  this  great  program  of  peace  that  we  are  dreaming  and  thinking 
about,  that  nation  must  discern  truth  and  light  direct  from  God. 

Christ  today  is  acclaimed  anew.  There  is  a  superb  explanation  of 
mind  and  thought  and  peace.  Men  of  God  are  entering  on  the  scene  of 
action  as  never  before.  So  lift  up  your  eyes,  O  people  of  the  world ! 
The  supreme  drama  is  enacting.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  we  go 
forth  from  this  conference  with  a  greater  testimony  burning  in  our 
hearts;  may  our  love  for  humanity  increase;  may  our  faith  in  God 
deepen.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Charles  H.  Hart's  remarks  about  the  Catholic  Encyclo- 
pedia have  brought  the  following  memorandum  from  Brother  Orson 
F.  Whitney: 

"President  Grant:  "l  wrote  the  article  on  'Mormons'  for  the  new  Catholic 
Encyclopedia,  by  request  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  at  the  solicitation  of 
Dean  Harris.  He  signed  it,  and  sent  it  to  New  York,  where  it  was  changed, 
things  being  written  into  it  that  the  article,  as  it  left  my  hands,  did  not  contain. 
The  assertion  that  the  Three  Witnesses  denied  their  Testimony  was  one  of  these 
interpolations.  I  protested  to  the  Dean,  and  he  invited  me  to  correct  the  mis- 
statement, which  I  did.  Whether  they  published  my  second  article  in  the  Ency- 
clopedia (as  promised)  I  know  not.  (Signed)        Orson  F.  Whitney." 

Apparently  they  did  not. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Cordon. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

CONCLUDING  MEETING 

The  closing  meeting  of  the  97th  Annual  Conference  session  was 
held  on  Wednesday,  April  6,  1927,  at  2  o'clock,  in  the  tabernacle,  a  large 
congregation  being  in  attendance. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided,  and  announced  that  the  con- 
gregation would  sing  the  hvmn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion." 

After  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  H.  Brimhall. 
The  congregation  sang,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded." 


ELDER   STEPHEN   L.   RICHARDS  153 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

During  the  noon  hour,- 1  called  upon  Brother  Richard  R.  Lyman. 
He  is  detained  at  home  by  sickness.  He  asked  me  to  convey  to  the 
conference  his  love  and  blessing.  I  do  so  cheerfully,  because  I  know 
of  the  depth  of  his  feeling  and  regard  for  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  for  the  work  of  the  Church. 

I  know  that  the  few  moments  which  remain,  the  short  time  in 
which  to  conclude  this  conference,  are  very  precious,  and  I  shall  be 
grateful  indeed  if  I  may  leave  just  a  thought,  prompted  by  the  proper 
spirit,  as  a  contribution  to  the  great  work  of  the  Church.  I  have  been 
thrilled  and  inspired,  as  I  am  sure  you  have  all  been,  by -the  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  and  the  splendid  remarks  which  have  been  made. 

INTELLIGENT  RESPONSE  TO  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  SPEAKERS 

I  have  studied  with  some  care  the  various  congregations  which 
have  assembled  during  the  conference.  I  have  looked  into  the  faces 
of  these  men  who  sit  near  the  stand,  many  of  whom  I  have  the  honor 
to  know.  I  have  seen  in  their  countenances  the  impressions  which  have 
been  made  by  the  inspiring  discourses,  and  I  have  noted  that  throughout 
the  building  on  all  the  occasions  when  meetings  have  been  held,  great 
interest  has  been  given  to  the  proceedings.  It  is  apparent  that  those  who 
have  gathered  have  responded  to  the  spirit  of  the  speakers  and  to  the 
great  truths  to  which  utterance  has  been  given. 

THERE  ARE  THE  WAYWARD,  THE  CARELESS,  THE  INDIFFERENT 

As  I  have  observed  these  congregations  I  have  continually  thought 
of  an  imaginary  congregation  which,  perchance,  might  be  assembled  in 
this  great  "building.  I  have  thought,  and  I  regret  that  my  belief  is  that 
it  is  true,  that  this  building  could  be  filled  with  another  congregation 
of  members  of  the  Church  made  up  of  those  who  are  indifferent,  who 
are  wayward,  who  are  careless  and  negligent,  and  whose  hearts  and 
spirits  do  not  respond  to  the  message  of  truth  as  do  yours.  I  have 
thought  of  these  men  and  women  who  have  come  from  good  families, 
whose  fathers  and  mothers  have  in  some  instances  been  the  very  pillars 
of  the  Church,  and  I  have  wondered,  if  such  a  congregation  were  assem- 
bled, just  what  we  would  say  to  them  and  just  how  we  would  endeavor 
to  reach  them  with  these  great  truths  which  are  embraced  within  the 
gospel  of  Christ. 

OUR  OBLIGATION  TO  INTERPRET  THE  GOSPEL  TO  THE  NEGLIGENT 

These  who  are  wayward  and  indifferent  are  scattered  all  through 
the  stakes  of  Zion  and  the  wards  of  the  Church.  Unfortunately  there 
is  scarcely  a  single  family  where  there  is  not  some  problem,  in  which 
there  is  not  someone  who  does  not  think  and  feel  quite  as  the  faithful 
think  and  feel,  and  to  whom  it  is  difficult  to  give  interpretations  of  the 
gospel  that  may  appeal.    I  would  like  to  say  that  while  I  regard  our 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


greatest  work  to  be  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  abroad  to  the  peoples 
of  the  earth,  that  men  may  know  of  the  truth  and  be  persuaded  to  come 
to  the  fold  of  Christ,  nevertheless,  I  fully  believe  that  our  obligation 
to  take  and  interpret  the  gospel  to  those  who  have  in  some  measure  at 
least  departed  from  the  faith,  is  of  almost  equal  importance,  and  1 
appeal  to  the  men  who  preside  over  the  stakes  and  the  missions  and  the 
wards,  and  who  administer  in  the  various  organizations  of  the  Church, 
to  do  all  that  lies  within  their  power  to  make  the  organizations  of  the 
Church  reach  this  great  multitude  of  good  people  who  are  worth  re- 
claiming, in  whose  blood  courses  that  tendency  to  faith  that  comes  from 
Jgood  ancestry.  I  sometimes  think  that  it  is  infinitely  more  important 
to  retain  for  the  Church  fine,  intelligent  men  and  women,  whose  fathers 
and  mothers  have  been  associated  with  the  Church,  than  it  is  to  secure 
others  from  distant  lands.  I  believe  that  the  message  of  the  gospel 
will  touch  these  people  if  we  can  but  interpret  it  in  terms  that  they  can 
understand,  and  if  we  can  induce  them  to  open  up  their  hearts  to  a 
reception  of  its  great  truths. 

CHANGES  IN  THE  PHYSICAL  WORLD  AND  THE  WAYS  OF  THOUGHT 

Great  changes  have  come  to  us  in  comparatively  few  years.  Only 
a  short  time  ago,  within  my  own  lifetime,  changes  of  so  tremendous 
a  character  and  import  have  come  as  not  only  to  have  revolutionized 
the  physical  world,  but  in  my  judgment,  to  have  very  largely  changed 
men's  attitude  and  way  of  thinking.  My  grandfather  came  with  the 
pioneers  in  1847.  He  did  not  live  seven  years  after  coming  here.  1 
thought  that  if  he  were  to  return  to  this  valley,  and  with  nothing  but 
mortal  eyes  and  wisdom  were  to  see  the  city  and  all  that  has  here  been 
made,  it  would  be  beyond  his  recognition.  1  wonder  if  changes  com- 
parable to  that  have  not  come  about  in.  the  ways  and  thoughts  of  youth. 
Surely  they  are  not  able  to  escape  the  influence  of  their  environment. 
Men  today  worship  at  the  altar  of  success  pretty  much  in  a  godless  way. 
We  have  come  out  of  the  world,  it  is  true,  but  the  world  have  come  in 
among  us.  And  they  have  brought  to  us  their  practices  and  their  ideals. 
We  are  subject  to  their  influence.-  It  is  impossible  to  prevent  men  and 
women  from  responding  in  some  degree  to  the  influences  which  sur- 
round them.  Science  has  revolutionized  our  lives.  It  affords  us  con- 
veniences and  utilities  which  we  use,  and  we  are  not  so  dependent  upon 
divine  aid  as  once  we  were. 

A  PIONEER  EXPERIENCE  SHE  DEPENDED  ON  GOD 

I  recall  a  few  years  ago  visiting"  with  an  old  lady  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  state.  She  was  then  ninety-two  years  old.  She  had  been 
a  pioneer,  and  in  my  conversation  with  her  she  gave  me  some  of  her 
experiences.  She  said  that  during  the  early  days  she  and  her  family 
were  for  weeks  without  food.  "For  one  period  of  three  weeks,"  she 
said,  "we  lived  entirely  on  nettles."  I  said :  "Nettles,  what  do  you 
mean  by  nettles?"    She  said:    "Just  the  common  stinging  nettles  that 


ELDER   STEPHEN  L.   RICHARDS  155 


grow  by  the  ditchbanks."  I  said :  "How  could  you  do  it?"  "Well," 
she  said,  "some  way  or  other  we  got  along.  We  were  so  interested  in 
the  great  work  going  forward,  our  faith  was  such  that  we  managed." 
One  day,  however,  she  said  her  two  little  girls  came  to  her  and  said : 
"Mama,  can't  we  have  a  little  bread?  Right  there  I  went  upon  my 
knees,"  she  said,  "and  I  prayed  God  that  he  would  grant  a  little  bread 
to  those  two  children.  No  sooner  had  I  arisen  -from  my  knees  than  a 
knock  came  at  the  door  and  there  stood  a  neighbor.  In  her  hands  she 
held  two  slices  of  bread  and  a  can  of  milk.  She  said :  'Sister,  I  thought 
perhaps  your  little  ones  might  need  this,  and  I  brought  it  to  them'." 
She  believed  that  her  prayer  had  been  answered.  I  do !  She  depended 
upon  God.  ; 

JUST  AS  NECESSARY  TO  APPEAL  FOR  DIVINE  PROTECTION  TODAY 

But  today  we  do  not  depend  upon  God  for  bread,  at  least  we  do 
not  think  we  do,  but  we  do  depend  upon  him  for  the  bread  of  life.  We 
depend  upon  him  for  inspiration,  and  it  is  just  as  necessary,  if  we 
could  only  make  our  youth  believe  it,  to  appeal  today  for  divine  pro- 
tection and  guidance  as  it  was  in  those  early  days  to  make  appeal  for 
the  sustenance  of  life. 

NEED  OF  INTERPRETING  THE  GOSPEL  IN  THE  LANGUAGE  OF  YOUTH 

Our  boys  and  girls  through  their  education  have  in  many  instances 
reached  an  independence  of  all  these  sacred  things,  the  things  which 
meant  so  much  to  their  fathers  and  their  mothers ;  and  my  observation 
is  that  one  of  the  things  most  needed  today  is  an  interpretation  of  the 
gospel  in  the  language  of  these  boys  and  these  girls,  so  that  they  may 
understand  its  vitality  and  its  import  to  them.  All  the  facilities  of  the 
Church,  all  the  work  that  we  can  do,  in  my  judgment,  should  be  directed 
to  the  saving  of  these  priceless  assets  of  the  Church  and  of  the  Nation, 
and  of  ourselves — our  children.  I  want  them  to  have  a  testimony  which 
I  know  is  the  most  valuable  thing-  that  can  come  to  them.  I  wish  they 
all  could  have  heard  the  testimonies  that  have  been  uttered  in  this  con- 
ference. I  feel  sure  that  the  impression  of  the  spirit  would  have  been 
helpful  to  them. 

TESTIMONY 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
I  wish  I  could  deliver  it  to  every  young  man  and  every  young  woman, 
to  every  wayward  man  and  wayward  woman  in  the  entire  Church.  I 
know  it  just  as  confidently,  just  as  surely,  as  I  know  any  other  fact 
that  has  entered  into  my  life.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God.  All  of  my  feelings,  every  sensation  that  I  can  in- 
terpret, bears  witness  of  that  truth  to  me.  I  know  that  it  is  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  makes  that  knowledge  certain.  I  know,  too,  that  that 
knowledge  will  come  to  every  honest  man  and  woman  and  to  every 
young  man  and  woman  who  strives  for  it  and  who  lives  for  it,  but  I 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


want  us  all  to  help  in  every  way  that  we  can  to  bring  that  knowledge 
to  the  youth  of  our  Church,  and  to  all  those  who  have  fallen  by  the 
wayside.  I  am  grateful  for  that  knowledge.  It  brings  into  my  life  more 
comfort,  more  satisfaction,  more  hope,  more  that  is  worth  striving  for, 
than  all  else,  and  I  am  very  desirous  that  I  may  live  to  be  worthy  of  a 
continuation  of  that  testimony,  that  it  may  grow  and  ripen  arid 
strengthen  within  me. 

My  grandfather  was  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  Carthage  jail. 
He  was  his  intimate  friend  ;  he  was  his  confidential  secretary.  He  knew 
his  thoughts,  I  believe,  as  well  as  one  man  may  know  the  thoughts  of 
another.  He  loved  him.  He  was  perfectly  willing  to  give  his  life  for 
the  prophet.  My  grandfather  has  left  his  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  divinely  chosen,  that  he  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I  know 
that  he  did  not  lie,  and  I  know  that  hundreds  of  other  good  men  who 
knew  this  prophet  have  not  falsified  when  they  have  g'iven  their  testi- 
mony of  his  divine  work. 

God  grant  that  the  testimony  of  this  latter-day  work  may  come 
not  only  to  the  great  hosts  of  faithful  Saints  who,  from  season  to  season, 
gather  here  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord,  but  to  these  hosts  of  worthy 
men  and  women  who  should  be  saved,  who  have  strayed  from  the  path 
of  truth.  I  feel  for  one  to  consecrate  my  efforts  to  their  reclamation 
and  retention  in  the  fold  of  Christ,  and  I  know  that  could  you  speak 
here  you  would  join  in  such  a  dedication.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  you  may  carry  forward  this  great  and  wonderful  work 
to  its  glorious  destiny,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  find  myself  in  full  accord 
with  all  that  has  been  said  in  this  important  conference,  and  earnestly 
do  T  desire  to  add  my  testimony  to  those  which  have  been  borne,  and 
to  speak  of  one  or  two  items,  that  have  already  been  referred  to,  which 
have  been  weighing  very  heavily  upon  my  own  mind  for  more  than  a 
year  past.  I  believe  that  this  representative  gathering  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  an  opportunity  for  the  messages  that  have  been  delivered 
by  the  President  of  the  Church  and  his  associates  to  be  carried, 
in  the  spirit  of  these  instructions,  to  the  various  stakes  of  Zion. 

MEETING  THE  TESTING  TIME 

I  wish  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the  115th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.    The  Lord  said  to  his  Church,  in  1838 : 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you  all :  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may  be  a 
standard  for  the  nations ; 

"And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her  stakes, 

may  be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from  wrath  when  it 

shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth." 
i 

I  have  felt  that  the  Lord  had  in  mind  the  very  perils  that  are 


ELDER    MELVIN    J.  BALLARD 


157 


threatening  the  world  and  are  endangering  the  faith  of  some  neglect- 
ful Latter-day  Saints,  when  he  spoke  of"  finding  a  place  of  defense 
for  us,  a  place  where  we  may  escape  not  only  the  physical  dangers  that 
will  be  in  the  world,  but  those  storms  of  a  moral  character  that  are  far 
more  disastrous  to  people  than  physical  destruction  or  physical  injury-. 
It  has  been  said  during  the  conference  that  as  a  Church  we  are  enjoy- 
ing a  period  of  peace.  I  rejoice  that  after  nearly  a  century  of  struggle 
and  effort,  contending  against  all  kind  of  opposition,  we  have  at  last 
won  the  right  to  exist,  a  right  conceded  now  by  men  and  women  gen- 
erally in  the  world.  Reference  has  also  been  made  to  a  condition  of 
prosperity  that  is  with  us.  I  rejoice  in  that.  I  would  not  change 
the  prosperity  of  the  people,  nor  would  I  stir  up  strife.  I  welcome 
peace,  it  gives  us  a  better  opportunity  to  deliver  our  message  to  the 
children  of  men.  But  the  thing  I  am  concerned  about  is  not  so  much 
what  the  world  thinks  about  us  just  now  as  it  is  our  own  status  with 
reference  to  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  and  how  to  meet  the 
perils  that  are  before  us.  I  am  not  a  pessimist,  and  yet  seeing  and 
feeling  things  most  clearly,  I  want  to  be  one  of  those  watchmen  upon 
the  towers  of  Zion,  with  my  brethren,  who  detect  the  storm  that  is 
coming  and  give  a  fair  warning,  and  point  out  not  only  the  danger,  but 
the  way  to  avert  that  danger.  Therefore,  I  feel  that  we  have  probably 
reached,  in  the  Church,  in  this  period  of  our  peace  and  prosperity,  a 
testing  time  for  us.  If  you  will  read  the  history  of  the  past,  no  dis- 
pensation of  the  gospel  has  ever  had  so  hard  a  time  to  maintain 
itself  as  during  the  period  of  its  own  peace  and  prosperity.  Indeed, 
there  is  no  gospel  dispensation  that  has  yet  survived  its  peace  and 
prosperity.  In  the  time  of  its  trouble,  people  were  united,  and  stood 
shoulder  to  shoulder  and  endured  all  things  and  kept  the  faith  and  died 
for  the  faith.  I  say,  I  am  not  a  pessimist,  nor  do  I  believe  that  we  will 
lose  the  faith,  nor  do  I  believe  that  the  dangers  which  threaten  us  are 
going  to  overwhelm  us,  and  yet  I  am  conscious  of  the  fact  that  mere 
membership  in  this  Church  will  not  save  a  man  or  a  woman.  It  will 
require  something  else.  I  cling  tenaciously  to  the  promise  made  through 
the  Prophet  Daniel,  as  the  Lord  inspired  him,  looking  down  to  our  own 
period  of  time  and  predicting  the  rise  of  this  Church,  insignificant 
as  it  was,  like  a  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  yet  if 
shall  roll  forth  until  it  will  fill  the  whole  earth,  and  it  shall  not  be 
left  to  another  people,  nor  shall  it  fail.  I  have  a  comfort  in  that ;  I 
have  an  abiding  confidence  that  no  matter  what  the  difficulties  are,  the 
majority  of  this  people  shall  survive  even  this  peril,  and  that  we  shall 
demonstrate  the  thing  that  never  has  yet  been  done ;  namely,  maintain 
the  truth  and  defend  it  in  peace  as  well  as  in  times  of  trouble,  and  that 
the  work  shall  go  on  victoriously  until  Christ  shall  come  to  receive  it, 
and  that  it  shall  roll  forth  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth,  for  it  is  the 
last  dispensation  and  it  shall  not  fail.  But  many  of  us  may  fail.  That 
is  my  fear,  that  is  my  anxiety. 

THE  TEMPTATIONS  OF  PEACE  AND  PROSPERITY 

In  the  time  of  our  peace  and  prosperity,  we  may  be  tempted  n>  be 


158 


i 

GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


indulgent  with  ourselves.  All  over  the  world,  I  believe  there  is  a  grow- 
ing spirit,  even  in  the  hearts  of  many  leaders,  to  become  careless,  to 
become  more  or  less  accustomed  to  the  new  order  of  things  that  obtain. 
This,  after  all,  is  most  threatening  to  the  life,  to  the  peace  of  the  people 
and  to  the  stability  of  even  governments  themselves.  The  statement 
of  a  poet  is  still  true,  that : 

"Vice  is  a  monster  of  so  frightful  mien, 
As  to  be  hated,  needs  but  to  be  seen ; 
Yet  seen  too  oft,  familiar  with  her  face, 
We  first  endure,  then  pity,  then  embrace.^" 

We  came  out  of  the  world  to  escape  the  evils  of  the  world,  but, 
as  has  just  been  observed,  these  world  conditions  have  come  to  us. 
We  are  part  of  the  world  and  the  influences  of  the  world  and  the 
practices  of  the  world  will  naturally  have  their  effect  upon  the  lives 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Is  it  possible  that  we  ourselves  are  seeing 
so  much  of  these  things  which  a  hundred  years  ago  when  this  Church 
was  brought  into  existence  would  have  shocked  us ;  the  present  moral 
status,  the  frequency  of  divorce,  and  many  common  practices  that  are 
heralded  abroad  throughout  our  own  country  that  would  have  been 
revolting  then — is  it  possible  that  these  vices  have  been  seen  so  much  by 
us  that  even  some  of  us  begin  to  feel  a  little  bit  calloused  and  almost 
wink  at  them?  I  hope  not.  I  believe  that  this  body  of  people  here 
assembled  have  no  such  feeling  as  to  compromise  or  tolerate  evil.  We 
are  tolerant  of  the  sinner,  b*ut  we  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least 
degree  of  allowance;  and  woe  be  to  the  man  or  woman,  the  leader  in 
the  wards  or  stakes  or  elsewhere,  among  the  young  people,  who  can 
wink  at  sin  and  compromise  with  it ! 

THE  TENDENCY  TO  INDULGENCE  AND  RELAXATION 

Woe  be  ,to  him  who  contributes  to  the  establishment  or  the  per- 
petuation of  a  state  or  condition  that  contributes  to  the  delinquency, 
to  the  sin,  to  the  transgression,  of  boys  or  girls  or  men  or  women.  So 
far  as  we  are  concerned  we  stand  solidly  against  immorality ;  and  let 
me  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  culminating  thing  that 
shall  come  out  of  this  tendency  towards  indulgence,  towards  relaxation, 
is  immorality,  and  immorality  is  the  plague  of  the  world  today,  and  that 
plague  is  threatening  all  about  us,  if  it  is  not  indeed  creeping  into 
the  midst  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Therefore  to  our  standards,  men  of 
Israel,  which  teach  us  to  look  upon  virtue  as  precious  as  life  itself, 
and  that  we  (Would  as  isoon  die  as  to  lose  our  virtue.  There  is  no 
cessation  on  the  part  of  the  enemy  against  this  work.  Though  he 
may  hot  be  conspiring  to  move  mobs  against  us,  nor  to  induce  men 
to  annihilate  us,  he  is  among  the  people  with  new  means  and  ways, 
lulling  them  off  to  sin  a  little,  to  lie  a  little  and  to  steal  a  little, 
and  do  other  things  with  the  promise :  You  will  be  beaten  with  a  few 
stripes,  but  you  will  be  all  right.  It  is  the  doctrine  of  the  devil  which 
is  intended  to  lead  men  gently  down  to  hell,  and  we  cannot  be  ignorant 
of  it  nor  indifferent  toward  it. 


ELDER    MELVIN    J.  BALLARD 


159 


A  WARNING  AND  A  FOREWARNING 

When  the  Lord  gave  the  Word  of  Wisdom  he  used  this  language 
in  (the  4th  verse  of  the  89th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils  and 
designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days, 
I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  vou  this  word  of  wisdom 
by  revelation." 

The  Lord  knew  what  was  coming.  He  knew  iback  in  Daniel's 
time.  He  could  tell  the  nations  what  would  arise.  He  knew  the  times 
of  men's  coming.  He  knew  their  habitations  and  their  limitations  and 
he  could  foretell  them.  God  knew  when  he  spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  which  would  come :  "Knowing,"  said  he,  "the  calamity 
that  would  come  upon  the  earth."  He  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
through  him  sent  a  warning  to  all  the  world  of  the  danger  that  was 
threatening  and  offered  the  means  of  escape.  But  the  Lord  is  very 
much  like  an  earthly  father.  What  can  an  earthly  father  do  to  his 
grown  sons  and  daughters  more  than  to  teach  them  of  the  danger. 
He  cannot  rescue  them  against  their  will,  if  they  are  determined  to 
sin  and  transgress  the  law  of  God  and  man.  They  presently  shall  Come 
into  bonds  and  imprisonment  and  be  subject  to  the  execution  of  the  law, 
and  when  the  judge  renders  his  decision  it  may  be  years  or  a  life  of 
imprisonment  or  even  the  execution  of  the  man  himself.  The  father 
would  be  willing  to  give  his  life  to  save  his  son,  but  he  cannot  do  it, 
neither  can  he  cancel  the  judgment  of  the  court  nor  set  aside  the  majesty 
of  the  law.  So  it  is  with  our  heavenly  Father.  All  he  can  do  is  to 
warn  us,  point  out  the  danger,  show  us  the  way  of  escape,  and  when  we 
resist  it  all  we  bind  God.  We  speak  of  binding  the  devil,  and  the 
devil  will  be  bound  and  have  no  power  over  us  when  we  resist  him,  but 
we  may  resist  the  Lord  in  the  same  manner  and  thus  bind  his  hands 
so  that  he  can  do  nothing  for  us,  for  he  himself  is  ruled  by  law,  he 
cannot  set  aside  the  majesty  of  eternal  law,  nor  save  men  in  their  sins. 
In  the  88th  section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  read : 

'"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  which  is  governed  by  law  is  also 
preserved  by  law  and  perfected  and  sanctified  by  the  same. 

"That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abideth  not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to  become 
a  law  unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide  in  sin,  and  altogether  abideth  in  sin,  can- 
not be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy,  justice,  nor  judgment.  Therefore, 
they  must  remain  filthy  still." 

So  that  God  is  rendered  helpless  in  the  case  of  a  man  or  woman 
in  this  Church  or  out  of  this  Church  who  resists  him  and  who  will  not 
abide  the  law. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  GIVEN  TO  FORTIFY  US 

Now  the  Lord  gave  us  the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  fortify  us  against 
the  temptations  of  the  day,  giving  us  the  power  to  resist,  knowing 
that  the  man  or  woman  who  breaks  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  uses 
tobacco,  tea  and  coffee,  will  weaken  his  or  her  moral  stability.   So  that 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  this  other  period  that  now  has  come,  of  other  temptation  that  leads 
to  graver  sin  and  immorality,  the  individual  has  broken  down  his 
morale,  his  will  and  his  power  to  resist,  notwithstanding'  the  thing  that 
he  does  is  contrary  to  the  will  of  God,  has  lost  the  power  to  stand  when 
greater  temptations  come.  God  was  steeling  us  and  arming  us  and 
fortifying  ns  against  the  plague  that  is  presently  threatening  us. 

ON  MARRIAGE  AND  DIVORCE 

An  article  recently  appearing  in  one  of  our  magazines  stated  that 
the  divorce  rate  is  growing  so  rapidly  that  if  it  continues  in  the  same 
increase  in  proportion  to  marriages,  by  the  year  1936,  there  will  be  as 
many  divorces  each  year  as  marriages  in  the  United  States.  What 
will  that  do  for  the  world  or  for  the  United  States?  It  will  destroy 
the  family  life,  and  when  the  family  life  is  broken  up  and  destroyed 
the  government  will  be  in  peril.  God's  work  can  go  forward  only  by 
men  and  women  in  the  Church  and  in  the  state  observing  the  sanctity 
of  the  marriage  relationship.  Side  by  side  with  us,  in  this  and  other 
states  of  the  union  we  find  forces  tending  to  the  destruction  of  family  I 
life.  In  Russia  and  elsewhere  there  is  a  great  rebellion,  inspired  by 
Bolshevism,  which  teaches  the  doctrine  of  companionship  in  marriage 
that  may  be  changed  and  altered  at  will,  and  that  the  children  are  the 
property  of  the  state.  When  these  doctrines  are  spread  abroad  what 
is  the  antedote  for  them?  It  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  have  that  which  teaches  them  to  prepare  them- 
selves to  come  into  holy  places,  and,  over  holy  altars,  receive  each  other 
by  the  authority  that  binds  on  earth  and  it  is  bound  in  heaven,  in  com- 
panionship as  husband  and  wife,  parent  and  children,  !for  time  and  all 
eternity.  No  planning  for  divorce  here  in  our  own  ranks.  The  evi- 
dence of  the  safety  in  God's  plan  is  manifested,  for  there  are  twice  as 
many  divorces  among  our  own  people  who  are  married  outside  of  the  I 
temple  as  among  those  who  enter  into  this  holy  place  and  receive  each  1 
other  in  this  bond  of  union  that  begins  to  plan  and  to  build  forever  and 
forever,  and  our  divorce  rate  is  1/5  that  of  this  country.  If  we  want 
to  escape  the  plague  of  divorce,  if  we  want  to  escape  the  de- 
struction of  family  life — and  when  this  is  gone  faith  is  gone,  and  there 
shall  come  quickly  other  perils  in  the  wake  of  it,  until  we  shall  be 
threatened  with  the  destruction  of  our  civilization — we  must  preserve 
the  foundation  upon  which  family  life  rests,  eternal  unions.  We  may  be 
found  fault  with  as  being  narrow  and  intolerant  by  some  of  our  outside  ] 
friends,  but  we  stand  for  those  things  that  are  fundamental.  We  al- 
ways shall  stand  for  them,  and  we  refuse  to  be  absorbed  by  present 
world  standards ;  we  expect  to  be  victorious  in  defending  our  own. 
And  presently,  showing  by  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  fruits  j 
of  these  things,  it  will  awaken  surely  in  the  hearts  of  righteous  men  a 
consciousness  that  here  in  "Mormonism"  is  stability,  a  stability  that  will 
save  men,  save  the  family,  save  the  home,  save  the  nation. 

OUR  GREATEST  ASSET  IS  OUR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS 

When  Brother  Pratt  and  I  were  in  South  America  we  presented 


ELDER    MELVIN    J.  BALLARD 


161 


pictures  of  the  achievements  of  the  Church,  and  I  said  to  Brother  Pratt, 
and  have  said  many  times  since,  that  the  greatest  product  we  have  is 
not  our  material  prosperity.    What  I  wanted  was  a  picture  of  tens 
of  thousands  of  "Mormon"  boys  and  girls,  and  we  have  them,  who  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  never  have  used  tea,  coffee  or  tobacco, 
who  are  as  pure,  as  clean  and  undefiled  as  the  angels  of  God.  I 
would  never  have  discovered  the  match  of  these  boys  and  girls  elsewhere 
in  all  the  world,  although  I  would  have  observed  individual  instances,  but 
not  in  community  groups  like  they  may  be  found  here,  the  product  of  this 
Church.    So  that  my  soul  turns  towards  them  in  a  sympathy  today, 
confronted  with  conditions  that  are  strange  and  new.    They  need  us. 
There  is  now  a  warfare  which  will  require  the  closest  cooperation  on  the 
part  of  the  leaders  with  their  people,  on  the  part  of  fathers  and  mothers 
towards  their  sons  and  daughters.    No  wonder  the  Lord  said  that  with- 
out this  principle,  which  joins  parents  and  children  to  each  other  for  time 
-  and  all  eternity,  the  turning  not  only  of  the  hearts  of  the  living  to  the 
dead,  but  of  the  living  children  to  their  earthly  parents,  in  a  union  that 
will  'preserve  the  family —the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted. 
The  great  saving  thing  in  the  world  today  is  this  principle  upon  which 
family  life  is  established  in  this  Church. 

TESTIMONY  j 

Now  the  Lord  bless  us,  brethren,  that  we  shall  go  home  with  an 
awakened  interest  in  the  new  problems  that  have  arisen,  with  a  con- 
sciousness that  the  people,  to  whom  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards,  has 
just  referred,  who  are  in  danger  and  in  peril  because  they  keep  not 
the  commandments  of  God,  that  we  shall  reawaken  their  interest  in 
these  simple  and  yet  all-important  saving  principles.  They  are  the 
only  hope  of  the  world  and  the  only  hope  of  this  Church.  I  know  that 
God  is  with  us.  We  are  not  in  the  dark.  The  light  is  in  the  ship ; 
the  captain  is  inspired.  He  knows  where  he  is  going.  God  is  at  the 
helm  and  the  storms  may  blow,  they  may  become  furious,  but  I  declare 
to  you  as  the  Lord  lives,  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  only  keep 
his  commandments  and  accept  of  the  plan  he  has  offered,  God  is  bound ; 
his  promise  will  be  fulfilled,  we  shall  come  out  victorious  and  shall  be 
far  more  distinguished  than  we  are  today,  if  we  can  only  weather  the 
storm  that  is  threatening.  God  help  us  to  do  so,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains,"  was  sung 
by  Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Early  Sunday  morning,  two  weeks  ago,  I  stood  in  the  grove 
where  Joseph  Smith  first  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son.  I  recalled 
my  first  visit  to  that  place.    Then  I  was  filled  with  the  spirit  of. 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


happiness,  peace  and  love.  At  that  time  I  thought  it  was  perhaps 
because  I  had  pictured  in  my  mind  the  beginning  of  that  farm  when 
my  great-grandfather  and  his  boys  (one  of  them  my  grandfather) 
were  clearing  the  land  and  building  their  house,  using  the  crude 
methods  of  the  year  1820.  Since  my  first  visit  I  have  been  there 
with  members  of  the  Church,  and  they  have  expressed  the  same 
feeling  I  had  then,  which  feeling  has  possessed  me  on  each  visit  to 
that  place.  I  have  been  there  with  those  not  of  our  faith  and  they 
have  mentioned  an  unusual  feeling  of  peace.  Last  Summer  a  group 
of  Protestant  ministers  visited  the  grove,  and  on  leaving,  one  of 
them  said,  speaking  of  Joseph  Smith:  "He  certainly  chose  an  ideal 
setting  for  his  vision,  if  such  a  thing-  could  be."  Another  answered, 
"Yes,,  there  is  certaini}'  a  peaceful  influence  here.  One  could  al- 
most imagine  such  a  thing  to  be  possible." 

I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  that  in  my  soul  I  believe  in  the 
testimony  of  Joseph  Smith.  I  would  like  to  dwell  upon  that  thought, 
if  time  would  permit,  but  1  am  limited  and  have  another  thought  I 
wish  to  leave  with  you,  God  being  my  helper,  and  I  sincerely  pray 
that  he  will  bless  me  that  I  may  give  advice  that  will  have  his 
approval. 

I  am  a  son  of  the  soil.  I  love  the  farm.  I  love  to  dig  and  plow 
and  plant.  I  continued  in  that  occupation  until  called  from  it  by 
the  Church  into  the  position  I  now  occupy.  Where  in  any  line  of 
work  or  endeavor  may  we  find  such  an  opportunity  to  commune 
with  the  living  God?  Let  me  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
from  the  very  beginning  there  has  been  a  relationship  among  God, 
man  and  the  soil,  making  man  dependent  upon  the  soil  for  his  very 
existence,  and  upon  God  for  peace  and  happiness.  When  God  placed 
man  on  the  earth,  he  planted  a  garden  eastward  in  Eden  and  placed 
man  in  it.  Through  transgression  he  was  driven  from  that 
garden  and  was  compelled  to  eat  his  bread  by  the  sweat  of 
his  face.  Father  Abraham  was  led  to  a  land  of  promise  and  Israel, 
his  chosen  people,  established  in  this  land  of  plenty.  Through 
transgression,  they  were  taken  into  bondage  and  finally  because 
of  their  sufferings  and  pleadings,  God  took  mercy  upon  them  and 
led  them  out  of  bondage  through  Moses,  unto  the  promised  land, 
which  he  said  had  been  prepared  for  them— a  promised  land  for  his 
chosen  people.  But  when  they  chose  to  rely  upon  the  words  of 
men  rather  than  the  promise  of  God,  they  were  required  to  wander 
in  the  wilderness  forty  years.  With  the  exception  of  two,  all.  those 
over  twenty  years  of  age  were  deprived  of  enjoying  the  blessings 
faith  would  have  brought  them. 

We  find  in  the  history  of  this  continent  that  when  the  word 
came  to  Lehi  to  preach  to  the  people  at  Jerusalem  and  warn  them 
of  the  destruction  of  that  city,  they  believed  him  not  and  he  was 
driven  from  their  midst.  Nephi,  through  his  faith,  was  promised  by 
the  Lord  that  they  should  be  led  to  a  land  of  promise,  a  choice  land, 
yea,  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands.  And  in  this  day,  a  prom- 
ise has  been  given  to  this  people  that  they  should  be  led  to  a  prom- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


163 


ised  land,  a  land  that  should  be  their  inheritance  forever,  provided 
they  were  faithful  in  keeping  his  commandments,  and  showed  by 
their  works  that  they  were  worthy  to  continue  in  that  inheritance. 

The  other  day  we  had  a  statement  made  to  us,  giving  figures 
showing  the  amount  it  has  cost  to  keep  missionaries  in  the  field. 
I  wonder  how  miany  have  stopped  to  realize  that  most  of  this  vast 
amount  of  money  has  been  taken  from  the  soil.    God  has  given  it 
to  us,  for  he  has  given  us  a  choice  land,  "a  land  choice  above  all 
other  lands,"  for  where  in  all  the  world  can  you  find  a  land  more 
productive  than  that  which  has  been  given  to  us?    I  sometimes 
wonder  if  we  fully  appreciate  this  blessing  which  has  come  to  us. 
I  stood  the  other  day  and  looked  at  those  great  trees  around  the 
home  erected  by  Joseph  Smith  and  his  sons  before  1820,  on  that 
farm  where  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
where  the  angel  Moroni  appeared  on  several  occasions.  They  stand 
there  today,  as  ornaments,  as  a  comfort,  for  they  bring  shade  and 
peace  around  that  home,  giving  the  impression  that  the  builders 
had  looked  to  the  future.    I  wonder  how  many  of  us  are  looking 
to  the  future?    How  many  of  us  are  planting  trees  around  our 
homes,  are  beautifying  our  homes?    Are  we  farming,  looking  into 
the  future,  or  just  farming,  impoverishing  the  soil,  feeling  that  our 
inheritance  is  only  temporary?   There  is  in  the  world  today  a  spirit 
of  strife  and  selfishness  and  contention,  and  I  am  wondering  if  we 
are  permitting  this  spirit  to  come  into  our  midst.     We  should  \k 
living  for  the  future  and  the  hereafter.    As  a  people,  we  believe  in 
co-operation,  not  that    supposed    co-operation    that   breeds  hatred, 
strife,   contention   and   ill-will,   but   that   co-operation,   that  broth- 
erly   love   and    good-will,    which   leads    men    to    reach   the  out- 
stretched hand  to  those  in  need,  to  those  who  suffer,  to  those  who 
hunger,  to  those  who  are  ill.   That  is  the  proper  co-operation,  and 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  it  and  are  expected  to  practice  it. 
As  I  travel  through  the  land,  these  thoughts  come  to  my  mind.  We 
are  establishing  in  some  districts,  dairy  industries,  creameries  or 
cheese  factories.   Are  we  producing  in  abundance  in  order  that  we 
might  have  funds  to  continue  our  missionary  work?  Or,  are  we  con- 
tending with  one  another?  Are  we  feeling  that  the  other  fellow  is 
o-etting  more  gain  out  of  our  product  than  he  is  entitled  to?  Are 
we  leaving  it  for  a  few  to  carry  the  burden,  increasing  the  over- 
head, or  have  we  stopped  to  consider  that  the  more  we  produce, 
the  more  we  get,  the  more  the  manufacturer  gets,  the  more  the 
comjmunity  gets?    It  is  through  co-operation  and  through  produc- 
ing in  abundance  that  we  are  blessed  and  not  through  individual 
effort,  which  often  breeds  a  spirit  of  contention  and  strife.   In  many 
of  our  sections  we  have  been  blessed  with  canning  factories  and 
packing  plants,  in  which  the  products  of  our  farms  may  be  put  into 
a  condition  to  find  market  elsewhere.    They  are  a  blessing  to  us, 
and  aiso  a  curse,  for  I  am  afraid  many  who  have  garden  plots  are 
depending  upon  the  can  for  their  food,  forgetting  the  home  garden. 
Many  fail  to  plant  in  the  Spring  that  they  may  harvest  during  the 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Summer  to  provide  their  families  and  those  depending"  upon  them 
with  good  wholesome  food,  fresh  from  the  soil. 

Let  us  support  the  canning  factories,  let  us  produce  that  they 
may  prosper,  for  when  they  prosper  we  are  bound  to  prosper;  but 
let  us  not  forget  that  there  is  a  means  of  prospering-  in  our  own 
household  and  through  the  opportunities  God  has  given  unto  us. 
We  find  the  spirit  of  contention,  not  with  the  majority,  but  with 
the  few,  and  unfortunately  sometimes  we  let  the  disturbing  ele- 
ment be  the  dominating  factor.  Let  us  co-operate  in  our  labors, 
and  keep  in  mind  the  community  interests.  We  have  sugar  fac- 
tories which  have  been  a  greater  blessing  to  the  farmers  of  this 
community  than  anything  else  that  has  come  among  us.  All  of 
these  industries  come  to  us  to  take  the  products  of  the  farm  and 
turn  them  into  cash,  and  return  that  cash  to  us  from  an  outside 
source,  to  provide  means  for  our  welfare  and  for  the  beautifying  of 
our  homes  and  to  aid  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  All  these  are 
for  our  benefit  and  blessing,  provided  we  acknowledge  the  hand 
of  God  and  co-operate  and  work  for  the  good  of  the  community  and 
forget  our  selfish  interests.  Selfishness  has  no  place  in  this  Church. 
We  as  individuals  must,  if  we  hope  to  succeed,  if  we  hope  to  pros- 
per, if  we  hope  to  have  the  blessings  of  God  continue  with  us,  look 
to  the  welfare  of  our  brethren. 

When  the  pioneers  came  here,  they  could  see  nothing  but  wil- 
derness, but  that  wonderful  man,  President  Brigham  Young,  saw 
into  the  future,  viewed  the  choice  valleys  and  their  possibilities,  saw 
where  water  could  be  stored  in  the  mountains  until  required  and 
used  as  needed.  God  has  provided  for  us  abundantly  and  now  we 
have  discovered  that  he  has  provided  something  else  for  us,  for 
we  have  the  wonders  of  the  world  at  our  very  door.  People  are 
coming  in  great  numbers  to  rest  in  our  scenic  play  grounds.  Their 
impressions  of  us  will  be  formed- through  the  appearance  of  our 
premises  and  by  personal  contact  with  us.  Are  we  prepared  to  re- 
ceive them?  Are  our  homes  and  surroundings  inviting'  and  at- 
tractive? Are  our  lives  such  that  when  they  come  into  our  midst 
they  can  see  our  good  works  and  go  away  with  a  feeling  of  praise 
and  good-will  toward  us  as  a  people?  My  brethren  and  sisters, 
what  a  wonderful  opportunity  has  been  given  to  us,  what  a  won- 
derfully blessed  people  we  are  in  having  been  gathered  together  in 
the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  with  all  these  wonders  about  us,  and 
preserved  and  protected  to  this  day.  And  now  God  is  opening  the 
way  through  which  we  may  preach  the  gospel  to  those  who  are  in 
darkness,  without  expending  our  means  for  that  purpose,  just  by 
living  as  he  would  have  us  live,  by  precept  and  example,  and  by  the 
appearance  of  our  homes  and  our  farms.  Let  us  realize  that  God 
has  blessed  us  abundantly.  Let  us  turn  to  him  in  faith.  Let  us 
co-operate  with  one  another  that  his  kingdom  may  be  built  up  in  the 
earth  and  his  people  blessed  as  he  has  promised  they  would  be 
blessed  in  the  latter  days. 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  two  passages  of  scripture : 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


165 


"Verily  I  say  unto  you  who  have  assembled  yourselves  together  that  you  may 
learn  my  will  concerning  the  redemption  of  mine  afflicted  people :  Behold,  I  say 
unto  you,  were  it  not  for  the  transgressions  of  my  people — speaking  concerning 
the  Church  and  not  individuals,  they  might  have  been  redeemed  now.  But 
behold,  they  have  not  learned  to  be  obedient  to  the  things  which  I  required  at 
their  hands,  but  are  full  of  all  manner  of  evil,  and  do  not  impart  of  their  sub- 
stance as  becometh  Saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted  among  them."  (D.  &  C. 
105:1-3.) 

"Prepare  thy  work  without,  and  make  it  fit  for  thyself  in  the  field."  *  *  * 
"I  went  by  the  field  of  the  slothful,  and  by  the  vineyard  of  the  man  void  of 
understanding; 

"And  lo,  it  was  all  grown  over  with  thorns,  and  nettles  had  covered  the  face 
thereof,  and' the  stone  wall  thereof  was  broken  down. 

"Then  I  saw,  and  considered  it  well:  I  looked  upon  it  and  received  in- 
structions. 

.  "Yet  a  little  sleep,  a  little  slumber,  a  little  folding  of  the  hands  to  sleep ; 
"So  shall  thy  poverty  come  as  one  that  travelleth;  and  thy  want  as  an  armed 
man."    (Prov.  24:27-34.) 

God  grant  that  we  may  receive  and  appreciate  his  blessings, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  enjoyed  beyond  measure  the  faith-promoting  stories  and 
testimonies  concerning  this  great  latter-day  work,  the  manifesta- 
tions of  the  power  of  God,  and  the  testimonies  concerning  the  Book 

of  Mormon.  m  ,  , .     «    •  _ 

Eighteen  hundred  and  ninety-four  years  ago— probably  during 
the  first  week  of  April-our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  passed 
the  last  week  of  his  mortal  life.  He  had  returned  from  a  brief  stay 
in  Perca  and  at  the  close  of  the  Sabbath  arrived  m  Bethany  with  his 
disciples  The  following  day,  the  first  day  of  the  week  and  known  to 
us  as  Sunday,  he  entered  the  city  of  Jerusalem  on  an  ass  s  colt. 

There  were  great  numbers  who  had  heard  of  his  coming  and 
he  was  hailed  :  "Hosanna:  Blessed  is  the  King  of  Israel  that  cometh 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord."  That  day  he  returned  to  the  little  village 
of  Bethany  and  the  next  morning— known  to  us  as  Monday— he 
evidently  again  walked  to  Jerusalem.  Entering  the  temple,  he 
found  the  Court  of  the  Gentiles  crowded-  with  those  who  sold  ani- 
mals merchandise  and  who  exchanged  money.  In  the  majesty 
of  his  power,  he  drove  out  all  the  people  doing  business,  and  said 
unto  them,  "My  house  shall  be  called  the  house  of  prayer ;  but  ye 
have  made  it  a  den  of  thieves." 

Again  he  returned  to  the  little  village  of  Bethany,  and  on  the 
following  day— according  to  those  who  have  given  deep  thought  and 
study  to  the  life  of  the  Master— he  entered  the  temple  once  more 
for  the  last  time,  and  here  he  delivered  that  remarkable  series  of 
reproofs  to  the  scribes  and  Pharisees. 

In  the  evening,  in  the  quiet  little  home  of  Simon  and  his  lam- 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ily — Lazarus,  Martha,  and  Mary — Mary  anointed  his  feet,  and  it 
was  then  that  he  said  that  as  long  as  his  gospel  shall  be  known  the 
act  of  Mary  will  be  remembered. 

The  following  day,  Wednesday,  he  spent  quietly  with  his  dis- 
ciples on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  gave  them  his  last  personal  instruc- 
tions, explained  to  them  some  things  he  had  said  in  the  temple  con- 
cerning the  great  events  that  would  occur  in  the  future  and  others  that 
would  occur  before  his  second  coming. 

On  Thursday  he  asked  his  disciples  to  prepare  for  the  Pass- 
over. Following  the  custom  of  the  Galilean  Jews,,  he  met  in  an 
upper  room  with  his  disciples,  where  he  comforted  their  souls,  ad- 
ministered to  them  what  is  known  as  the  Last  Supper,  prayed  to  his 
Father  to  preserve  and  protect  his  disciples,  and  departed  to  the  Garden 
of  Gethsemane,  where  he  was  arrested. 

One  of  the  outstanding  features  connected  with  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  that  each  person  who  has  faith  in  God  and  who  has 
sincerely  repented  of  his  sins  and  has  been  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  his  sins,  having  had  hands  laid  upon  his  head  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  mlay  know  the  doctrine,  whether  it  is  of  God,  or 
not.  Thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  can 
testify  that  this  is  the  truth,  that  by  obedience  to  this  gospel  they 
have  received  an  inward  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the 
gospel  has  been  restored,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God.  This  promise  of  a  testimony  is  accorded  to  all  people,  even 
as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call. 

Jesus  had  finished  about  two  years  of  his  ministry  and  was 
again  laboring  in  his  own  province  of  Galilee,  having  been  rejected 
in  his  own  home  of  Nazareth.  With  his  disciples  he  toured  Galilee ; 
then,  calling  the  disciples  together,  he  sent  them  out  to  preach  the 
gospel,  giving  them  special  instructions  to  go  not  to  the  Gentiles 
nor  to  the  Samaritans,  but  rather  to  the  lost  sheep  of  the  house  of 
Israel.  While  they  were  away,  the  messengers  came  from  John 
who  was  in  prison,  asking,  "Art  thou  he  that  should  come?  or  look 
we  for  another?"  That  day  the  Master  healed  the  sick,  gave  sight 
to  the  blind,  made  the  lame  to  walk,  and  when  the  day  was  over, 
he  said  to  John's  delegates,  "Go  your  way,  and  tell  John  what  things 
ye  have  seen  and  heard ;  how  that  the  blind  see,  the  lame  walk,  the 
lepers  are  cleansed,  the  deaf  hear,  the  dead  are  raised,  to  the  poor 
the  gospel  is  preached."  They,  no  doubt,  returned  to  John,  and 
John  was  satisfied.  A  short  time  after,  the  Master  heard  that  his 
forerunner  had  been  beheaded,  and  he  exclaimed,  "Among  those  that 
are  born  of  women  there  is  not  a  greater  prophet  than  John  the  Baptist: 
but  he  that  is  least  in  the  kingdom  of  God  is  greater  than  he." 

His  apostles  returned  and  accompanied  him  to  the  east  side 
of  the  lake  of  Galilee.  He  there  labored  and  taught  the  people  for 
three  days,  and  his  disciples  suggested  to  him  that  the  people  would 
better  be  dismissed  to  get  food  in  the  neighboring  villages.  The 
Master  said  that  he  could  not  send  them  away  for  fear  some  would 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


167 


faint,  and  asked  how  much  bread  and  food  they  had.  The  disciples 
answered  that  they  had  a  few  loaves  and  fishes.  Jesus  told  the 
disciples  to  seat  the  people  in  fifties  and  hundreds.  Then  he  broke 
the  bread  and  blessed  it  and  passed  it  to  his  disciples,  who  dis- 
tributed it.  Five  thousand  men,  as  well  as  women  and  children, 
were  fed.  One  can  imagine  the  excitement  that  followed.  Here 
was  a  man  who  could  give  not  only  spiritual  food,  but  could  also 
feed  their  bodies.  Well  might  they  want  to  make  him(  a  temporal 
king. 

He  sent  the  disciples  across  the  lake  and  .dismissed  the  multitude. 
In  the  night  he  walked  across  the  water  before  his  disciples  had  been 
able  to  land  on  the  opposite  side.  They  saw  him  but  faintly 
in  the  early  morning  light  and  were  sore  afraid,  but  Jesus  said 
unto  them,  "Be  of  good  cheer;  it  is  I ;  be  not  afraid."  Peter,  im- 
petuous, bold,  and  a  leader,  asked  the  Lord  if  he  could  come,  and 
was  told  that  he  could.  He  started  to  walk  on  the  water,  but  the 
waves  were  rough  and  he  called  to  the  Lord  to  save  him. 

Landing  at  Capernaum,  he 'was  met  by  people  who  had  hur- 
ried around  the  end  of  the  lake.  There  he  tried  to  impress 
upon  them  that  his  kingdom  was  not  of  this  world,  that  he  had 
given  them  bread  to  feed  their  hunger,  saying,  "Labor  not  for  the 
meat  which  perisheth,  but  for  that  meat  which  endureth  unto  ever- 
lasting life,  which  the  Son  of  man  shall  give  unto  thee,"  and  the 
multitude  said  unto  him,  "Lord,  evermore  give  us  this  bread." 

The  Master  spoke  so  plainly  that  many  of  his  disciples  and  fol- 
lowers discontinued  following  him.  He  then  turned  to  his  apostles 
and,  addressing  Peter,  said :  "Will  ye  also  go  away  ?"  and  that  good 
man  responded,  "Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  thou  hast  the  words  of 
eternal  life.  And  we  believe  and  are  sure  that  thou  art  the  Christ  the 
Son  of  the  living  God." 

Jesus  then  moved  away  from  Capernaum.  The  next  we  hear 
of  him,  he  was  on  his  way  with  his  chosen  disciples  and  probably 
a  few  of  his  close  friends,  in  the  direction  of  Caesarea  Philippi. 
Perhaps  he  was  dejected  because  of  his  inability  to  convince  the 
people  concerning  his  mission,  and  one  of  the  gospel  writers  says 
that  he  went  away  to  pray.  No  doubt  the  disciples  stayed  at  a 
respectful  distance.  Then  he  returned  and,  addressing  his  disciples, 
said,  "Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?"  No  doubt, 
each  one  answered  the  question  in  turn,  "Some  say  that  thou  art 
Tohn  the  Baptist:  some,  Elias ;  and  others,  Jeremiah,  or  one  of  the 
prophets."  It  was  a  common  idea  that  Elijah  would  come  before 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord,  and  they  were  looking  for 
him  to  come  before  the  Messiah.  It  was  also  understood  among 
the  Jews  that  Jeremiah  had  in  his  possession  the  Ark  of  the  Cove- 
nant, that  it  was  hidden  in  Mount  Nebo,  and  would  be  placed  back 
in  the  temple  before  the  coming  of  the  Messiah. 

Then  Jesus  turned  to  his  disciples  and  said,  "But  whom  say 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ye  that  I  am  ?"  and  then  Peter,  to  whom  the  role  of  leadership  had 
fallen,  spoke — doubtless  with  the  approval  and  concurring  voice  of 
his  brethren — "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  I 
can  imagine  what  a  comfort  that  would  be  to  his  Master  to  know 
that  his  disciples  at  least  knew  that  he  was  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God.  No  doubt  this  testimony  had  been  given  by  the 
Father  to  those  twelve  chosen  men  who  were  to  be  Christ's  special 
witnesses  and  who  were  destined  to  carry  his  work  and  the  mes- 
sage of  the  gospel  to  what  was  then  known  as  the  civilized  world. 

Addressing  Peter,  the  Master  answered,  "Blessed  art  thou, 
Simon  Barjona:  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee, 
but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  That 
thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church ;  and  the 
gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it.  And  I  will  give  unto  thee 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven :  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind 
on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven :  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose 
on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven." 

It  is  the  desire  and  intent  of  c*ur  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  that  all 
those  who  accept  his  doctrines  and  live  according  to  his  precepts, 
shall  know  his  doctrine.  At  one  time  he  declared,  "My  doctrine  is 
not  mjne  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak 
of  myself." 

In  Capernaum  he  said :  "No  man  cometh  unto  me,  except  the 
father  which  hath  sent  me  draw  him ;  and  I  will  raise  him  up  at 
the  last  day."  To  all  who  sincerely  desire  to  find  the  truth  and 
understand  and  accept  it  this  is  a  promise,  for  they  will  know  the 
truth,  and  he  will  draw  them  as  he  promised,  and  they  will  receive 
the  testimony  that  is  the  outstanding  feature  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

It  is  our  duty  to  pray  to  the  Father  for  this  testimony.  It  is 
our  privilege  to  receive  it,  and  no  Latter-day  Saint  of  years  of  dis- 
cretion need  be  without  this  testimony.  In  view  of  the  great  prob- 
lems that  are  arising  in  the  world,  I  appeal  to  my  brethren  and 
sisters  to  see  that  there  is  taught  to  their  children  in  the  homes 
the  story  of  the  life  and  mission  of  Jesus  Christ;  also  the  story  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  and  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  through  his  in- 
strumentality, that  there  may  grow  into  their  hearts  faith  in  the  living 
God  and  a  love  for  their  fellow-men,  that  our  young  people  will  grow 
mighty  in  testimony  and  power  to  carry  on  this  great  work. 

I  am  thankful  indeed  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  that 
testimony  which  has  come  to  me.  I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege 
of  laboring  in  the  ministry,  for  the  association  I  have  with  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  May  the  Lord  bless  and  sanctify  this  great 
gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  the  influence  felt  here  may  go 
into  all  the  homes  of  Zion,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER   REY  L.  PRATT 


169 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

"Oh  that  my  words  were  now  written!  Oh  that  they  were  printed  in  a 
book ! 

"That  they  were  graven  with  an  iron  pen  and  lead  in  the  rock  forever ! 

"For  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter 
day  upon  the  earth : 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God : 

"Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  another; 
though  my  reins  be  consumed  within  me." 

Many  times  in  my  life,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  read 
this  wonderful  prediction  of  Job  s  and  have  marveled  at  it,  and  have 
been  very  greatly  impressed  by  it.  I  think  that  in  my  study  of 
the  Scriptures  nothing-  else  has  so  much  impressed  me  as  has  testimony. 
Nothing  else  in  the  history  of  the  Church  to  which  we  belong  has  so 
impressed  me  as  have  the  testimonies  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  In  reading  his  brief  account  of  his  life  as  given  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  I  turn  back  repeatedly  and  read  over  and  over 
again,  with  added  inspiration,  the.  wonderful  testimony  given  in 
so  simple  a  way  concerning  his  vision.  This  good  man,  of  whom 
I  have  read  today,  had  been  persecuted,  he  had  been  singled  out 
and  had  suffered,  and  still  he  was  able  to  testify,  in  an  outburst,  not 
of  reason  why,  but  to  leave  his  testimony  for  the  world,  that  not- 
withstanding all  that  had  come,  or  that  might  come  unto  him,  he 
knew  that  his  Redeemer  did  in  very  deed  live.  And  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  strange  as  it  might  seem.,  inoffensive  towards  any 
human  being,  never  having  harmed  his  fellow-man,  yet  simply  be- 
cause of  the  fact  that  he  recounted  that  he  had  seen  a  vision,  that 
he  knew  that  God  lived,  that  he  had  been  visited  by  him  and  by  his 
Son,  he  was  singled  out  for  persecution.  He  was  invited  to  retract, 
and  was  assured  that  should  he  do  so  persecution  would  cease.  But 
he  testified  in  the  simple  words  that  he  knew  that  he  had  seen  a 
light,  and  that  in  the  light  he  had  seen  two  personages  whom  he 
knew  to  be  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ ;  and  further- 
more, he  knew  that  God  knew  these  things,  and  he  dared  not  other 
than  to  continue  to  testify  of  this  truth.  And  so  he  did  testify,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  day  of  his  death,  and  sealed  his  testi- 
mony with  his  blood. 

In  regard  to  the  matter  of  testimony,  I  have  concluded  that 
those  testimonies  which  have  impressed  me  most  have  not  been 
accompanied  by  reason  why.  They  seem  to  carry  with  them  their 
own  conviction,  and  I  verily  believe-,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
they  were  given  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  same 
Spirit  has  witnessed  to  my  spirit  that  they  are  true. 

It  is  a  remarkable  thing,  when  you  review  the  life  of  Joseph 
Smith  and  the  great  work  he  brought  forth  and  the  wonderful 
things  that  he  testified  of.    We  heard  in  priesthood  meeting  a  re- 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


view  of  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  given  by  Presi- 
dent Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and  of  the  wonderful  things  to  which  Jo- 
seph Smith  attached  his  name — a  document  which  set  forth  that 
there  were  once  mighty  cities  upon  this  land,  and  those  cities  had 
not  been  discovered  at  that  time,  not  even  the  ruins  of  them.  He 
attached  his  name  to  the  assertion  that  there  had  been  a  wonder- 
ful civilization  upon  this  land,  schooled  in  the  arts  and  sciences, 
and  he  was  even  bold  enough  to  affirm  that  the  people  worked  in 
metal,  of  iron  and  steel.  And  he  told  of  books  written  upon  gold  leaf, 
and  that  verily  the  book  he  translated  was  from  engravings  upon  a  book 
of  gold  leaf.  And  still  Joseph  Smith  is  not  supposed  to  have  known  of 
the  existence  of  anything  in  the  world  that  would  corroborate  his 
statement  at  that  time.  We  now  find  that  those  simple  testimonies 
and  statements  are  corroborated  all  the  time  by  the  findings  of  scientific 
men  who  are  delving  into  the  ruins  of  the  country  to  the  south  of  us, 
particularly.  At  last,  steel  instruments  have  been  discovered  on  this 
continent,  and  they  are  attributed  to  the  ancients  who  manufacured 
them  and  used  them. 

The  truth  of  these  statements  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
been  borne  in  upon  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  have  stood  among 
these  majestic  ruins  of  Mexico  and  Central  and  South  America.  I  have 
stood  there  and  tried  to  imagine  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  not  true, 
but  I  have  prayed  that  I  might  know  of  a  surety  for  myself  whether  it  be 
true  or  not.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  in  those  solemn  places,  in  those 
beautiful  ruins,  among  majestic  stones,  larger  than  any  I  have  ever 
seen  in  any  other  architecture  of  this  modern  day,  I  have  had  borne  in 
upon  my  soul  this  truth  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true;  that  it  is 
a  new  witness  for  God  upon  the  earth,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
and  is  a  Prophet  of  God. 

I  have  been  impressed  during  this  conference  by  the  spirit  of 
testimony.  Tears  have  come  to'  my  eyes  more  than  once  during 
this  procedure  because  of  the  spirit  of  testimony  that  has  come  from 
the  speakers  to  me.  And  I  stand  as  a  witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  these  testimonies  are  true. 

We  have  spoken  of  the  testimonies  of  great  men  in  this  Church. 
Now,  the  thought  is,  are  they  alone  entitled  to  a  testimony?  Are 
they  alone  entitled  to  know  whether  there  has  been  a  restoration 
of  the  gospel  or  not?  Are  they  alone  entitled  to  know  that  God 
lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ?  I  think  not.  I  think  that  the 
Savior  has  given  us  ample  reasons  to  assume,  by  reason  of  his 
teachings,  that  all  men,  if  they  will  comply  with  the"  conditions  up- 
on which  a  knowledge  might  come  to  them,  may  know  of  the  truth  of  the 
doctrines  that  he  taught,  which  are  none  other  than  the  doctrines  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  instrument,  in  the  hands  of  God,  in  restoring 
to  the  people  in  this  present  day.  They  may  know  whether  they 
be  of  God  or  whether  they  be  of  man.  There  are  many  people  in 
the  world — I  know  by  contact  with  them — who  would  give  a  very 
great  deal  to  be  able  to  say  that  they  know  that  the  gospel  is  true ; 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


171 


that  they  surely  know,  without  shadow  of  a  doubt,  that  God  lives 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  In  the  face  of  all  the  confusion  and 
conflicting  ideas  that  there  are  in  the  world,  today,  I  know  there 
are  many  honest-hearted  people  who  would  give  a  very  great  deal 
to  be  able  to  say  what  has  been  said  in  this  conference  by  those 
who  have  spoken  in  regard  to  these  things.  But  they  do  not  know. 
How  may  they  know?  "If  any  man  will  do  his  will,"  says  the 
Savior,  "he  may  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or 
whether  I  speak  of  myself."  Are  there  any  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  not  in  possession  of  a  testimony  in  regard  to  these  things?  If 
there  be  such,  I  say  unto  them,  as  I  have  said  to  these  men  in  the 
world,  If  you  will  put  your  lives  in  harmony  with  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  as  they  have  been  restored  in  this  age,  and  if  you  will 
humbly  ask  the  Lord  for  a  testimony  concerning  these  things,  he 
will  bear  witness  unto  you  through  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  you  are 
entitled  to  have  as  a  companion  when  you  comply  with  the  require- 
ments of  the  gospel,  in  unmistakable  terms,  that  the  gospel  is  true,  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

I  admonish  you,  therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  live 
humbly,  to  put  your  lives  in  harmony  with  the  truth.  We,  as  teach- 
ers, should  possess  this  wonderful  testimony,  and  we  bear  a  won- 
derful responsibility  in  teaching  it  to  our  children,  to  our  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  to  our  friends  in  the  world ;  for  all  of  those  people, 
way  out  there,  are  our  Father's  children  and  heirs  unto  salvation, 
if  they  will  but  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  law.  We  have 
a  knowledge  of  the  law  and  the  conditions  thereof,  and  we  should 
teach  them.  There  is  a  wonderful  responsibility  resting  upon  a 
teacher,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  To  those  who  assume  to  teach, 
in  such  a  way  as  to  destroy  the  faith  of  the  youth  of  Zion,  I  tell  you 
there  is  a  terrible  responsibility  resting  upon  them.  There  is  noth- 
ing that  I  would  rather  my  children  have  than  an  implicit  faith  in 
God.  Learning,  riches,  an  influence  in  the  world,  or  in  the  affairs 
of  the  world,  do  not  compare  with  the  great  blessings  of  an  abiding 
faith,  and  I  wish  to  instill  that,  so  far  as  God  gives  me  power,  in  the 
minds  of  my  own  children.  And  so  far  as  he  gives  me  power,  I  shall 
testify,  before  the  world,  with  an  endeavor  to  instil  that  witness  in- 
to the  hearts  of  my  fellow-men. 

I  realize  that  the  time  is  past.  I  am  thankful  unto  the  Lord 
for  the  privilege  to  participate  in  his  work.  I  am  thankful  for  the  op- 
portunity of  bearing  my  testimony  to  you.  Of  a  surety  I  know 
that  God  lives,  and  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  Of  a  surety  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  raised 
up  to  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  restore  to  the 
world  for  the  last  time  the  great  gospel  of  salvation.  I  know  that 
the  gospel  is  true,  and,  in  the  words  of  our  beloved  prophet,  I  know 
that  God  knows  that  I  know  these  things,  and  I  dare  not  other  than 
testify  of  them. 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  to  us,  and  help  us  to  live  so  that 
we  may  merit  them  and  do  good  continuously  upon  the  earth,  that 
we  may  eventually  be  saved  in  his  presence,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Heads  of 
the  Church,  who  were  voted  upon  and  unanimously  sustained  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL   OF   THE   TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  •  GRANT 


173 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay  % 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler 

Peter  G.  Johnston 

0 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

George  C.  Smith,  Sec'y. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK   OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst,  Supt. 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


YOUNG  LADIES'   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  time  has  passed  when  we  are  supposed  to  dismiss,  but 
there  are  a  few  things  that  I  would  like  to  say  and  I  crave  your 
indulgence  while  I  do  so. 

GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  POWER  AND  TESTIMONY 

When  I  was  made  one  of  the  apostles  of  the  Church  we  did  not 
have  twenty  stakes  of  Zion.  We  now  have  ninety-six,  and  we  have 
voted  to  divide  the  Jordan  stake,  which  will  make  ninety-seven,  and 
to  divide  the  Los  Angeles  stake,  which  will  make  ninety-eight,  and 
to  organize  a  new  stake  to  embrace  Oakland  and  San  Francisco  and 
vicinity,  making  ninety-nine  stakes  of  Zion,  or  a  little  more  than 
five  times  as  many  as  there  were  when  I  was  chosen  to  be  one  of 
the  apostles.  . 

Anybody  who  thinks  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  not  growing,  is  ignorant,  to  say  the  least.  Zion  is  growing 
in  power,  strength  and  testimony. 

REGRET  NO  TIME  TO  HEAR  FROM  MORE  STAKE  PRESIDENTS 

I  regret  that  we  did  not  have  the  opportunity  of  hearing  from 
at  least  a  dozen  more  of  our  stake  presidents.  There  are  a  dozen 
men  who  were  ordained  as  far  back  as  1924,  who  have  not  yet  had 
the  opportunity  of  speaking  in  General  Conference.  But  it  seems 
that  we  can  never  quite  get  through,  although  we  have  had  an  extra 
meeting  of  two  hours  in  (this  conference.  In  addition,  Brother  Mc- 
Murrin,  Brother  Smoot,  Brother  Talmage  and  Brother  Hyrum  G. 
Smith  are  away.  Somehow  or  other  we  never  quite  have  time 
enough  to  hear  from  these  presidents  of  stakes.  Occasionally  we 
hear  from  a  few  of  them,  but  I  would  like  to  hear  all  of  the  ninety- 
six  men,  whom  God  has  seen  fit  thus  to  honor,  bear  their  testimony 
for  a  few  moments  before  this  congregation.  I  hope  that  we  may 
hear  from  more  of  them  next  time. 

NEW  STAKE  TABERNACLE  IN  LOS  ANGELES 

Speaking  of  the  division  of  the  Los  Angeles  stake,  I  have  a  tele- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


175 


gram  from  Leo  J.  Muir,  the  chairman  of  the  tabernacle  finance  com- 
mittee, it  having-  been  decided  to  erect  a  tabernacle,  to  be  utilized 
by  both  stakes  after  the  new  one  is  organized : 

"Reports  received  this  morning  from  the  ward  chairmen  in- 
dicate tonight's  total  will  reach  $125,000  pledged  for  the  Los 
Angeles  stake  tabernacle." 

I  can  remember  when  there  were  not  a  half  dozen  Saints  in 
Los  Angeles.  The  Church  will  match  this  $125,000  which  has  been 
pledged  locally,  so  that  there  will'  be  in  southern  California  quite  a 
fine  building,  as  a  further  evidence  of  the  "decaying  of  the  Church." 

OURS  AN  AMERICAN  CHURCH 

There  is  one  thing  that  1  desire  to  emphasize,  and  that  is  that 
we  are  engaged  in  an  American  Church,  born  in  the  land  of  free- 
dom, born  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy.  We  believe  and  teach,  and 
have  taught  from  my  earliest  recollection  that  God  has  protected  and 
fought  on  the  side  of  America  in  all  of  the  struggles  we  have  had 
for  liberty;  that  he  was  with  Washington  and  his  armies.  We  sus- 
tain and  uphold  the  president  of  the  United  States  and  the  officers 
of  this  great  country.  We  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  response  that 
has  been  made  upon  all  occasions  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  calls 
for  money  and  for  men  to  fight  the  battles  of  our  country,  and  in  all 
things  to  sustain  and  uphold  this  country. 

TESTIMONIES  AND  WARNINGS  ENDORSED 

I  want  to  say  that  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  many  splen- 
did remarks  that  have  been  made  here.  I  rejoice  in  the  virtue  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people.  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart, 
however,  the  warnings  that  have  been  given  here.  I  have  the  most 
supreme  and  absolute  contempt  for  men  who  are  guilty  of  proclaim- 
ing that  virtue  should  not  be  maintained;  that  there  is  no  sin  in 
sexual  intercourse.  It  is  the  doctrine  of  devils.  It  is  an  inspira- 
tion from  the  devil  himself,  and  the  men  who  defend  things  of  this 
kind  are  instruments  in  his  hands  to  try  to  destroy  virtue  and  to 
wipe  from  the  earth  liberty  and  right,  and  all  that  is  of  real  genu- 
ine worth  to  humanity. 

CALL  TO  REPENTANCE  OUR  SUPREME  OBLIGATION 

I  want  to  emphasize  that  we  as  a  people  have  one  supreme 
thing  to  do,  and  that  is  to  call  upon  the  world  to  repent  of  sin,  to 
come  to  God.  And  it  is  our  duty  above  all  others  to  go  forth  and 
proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  restoration  again 
to  the  earth  of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  Appeals  are  coming 
from  all  over  the  world  for  more  missionaries.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  should  so  organize  their  affairs,  and  so  shape  their  finances, 
that  more  will  be  ready  and  willing,  especially  those  of  age  and 
experience,  with  a  testimony  and  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  this 
work,  to  go  forth,  not  only  on  short,  but  on  long  missions.  Too 
many  of  us  are  gradually  setting  our  hearts  upon  the  things  of  this 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world.  We  have  so  much  to  look  after,  so  many  business  interests, 
so  many  important  things,  so  far  as  dollars  and  cents  are  concerned, 
that  we  are  neglecting  the  one  great  thing  of  all;  namely,  the 
proclaiming  of  the  gospel,  and  making  what  people  call  sacrifices 
but  what  actually  are  the  exact  oppdsite.  We  have  in  very  deed 
the  pearl  of  great  price.  W e  have  that  which  is  of  more  value  than 
all  the  wealth  and  the  scientific  information  which  the  world  pos- 
sesses. We  have  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  The  first  great  com- 
mandment was  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  hearts,  might, 
mind  and  strength ;  and  the  second  was  like  unto  it,  to  love  our 
neighbor  as  ourselves.  And  the  best  way  in  the  world  to  show  our 
love  for  our  neighbor  is  to  go  forth  and  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  which .  he  has '  given  us  an  absolute  knowl- 
edge concerning  its  divinity. 

God  bless  all  of  the  Saints.  God  bless  the  president  of  the 
United  States  of  America  and  his  cabinet,  and  the  governors  of  our 
states  and  the  mayors  of  our  great  cities.  And  bless  every  honest- 
hearted  man  and  woman  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  give  to 
those  who  seek  for  it  (and  he  will)  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged. 

God  bless  and  multiply  the  substance  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
May  we  cooperate  for  the  advancement  of  the  Church  and  for  the 
advancement  of  this  magnificent  country  that- God  has  given  to  the 
people  who  are  located  in  it,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Praise  God,  from  whom  all  blessings 
flow."  " 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 
The  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by  B. 
Cecil  Gates.  Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on  the  great 
organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander  Schreiner 
and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Stenographic  notes  were  taken  in  the  Tabernacle 
by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson,  and  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  by  Frederick  G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Assembly  Hall,  Morning  Meeting   42 

Assembly  Hall,  Afternoon  Meeting   58 

Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  172 

Allred,  Elder  John  G  118 

Anderson,  Elder  John  H   61 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J    156 


Meeting  the  testing  time,  156 — The  temptations  of  peace  and  pros- 
perity, 157 — The  tendency  to  indulgence  and  relaxation,  158 — A 
warning  and  a  forewarning,  159 — The  Word  of  Wisdom  given  to 
fortify  us,  159 — On  marriage  and  divorce,  160 — Our  greatest  asset 


is  our  boys  and  girls,  160. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   93 

Belliston,  Elder  Alfred  H  129 

Blood,  Elder  Russell  H   43 

Butler,  Elder  E.  L   65 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q  134 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   39 

Chipman,  Elder  Stephen  L  131 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   •  •  77 


The  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  77 — A  description  of  the 
Savior,  77 — Isaiah's  prediction  of  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  78 — The 
annunciation,  78 — The  birth  of  Christ,  79 — The  doubting  of  the 
Jews,  79 — John  the  Baptist  even  in  doubt,  79 — Christ  organized  his 
Church,  80 — Christ's  marvelous  doings  created  a  profound  im- 
pression, 80: — Under  the  spirit  of  persecution,  80 — The  death  war- 
rant of  Jesus  Christ,  81 — The  apostles  also  suffered  persecution,  82. 


Colton,  Elder  Byron  O.  .  .  .  113 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B  124 

Concluding  Meeting   152 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    1 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   24 

Fourth  Day,  Morning  Meeting   134 

Fourth  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   152 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  Church     172 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  172 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  173 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Telegram  from  Elder  Reed  Smoot,  2 — Other  Authorities  absent,  2 — 
Changes  and  releases,  2 — Financial  statement,  3— Report  of  the 
Auditing  Committee,  4 — -Statistics,  4 — Reports  from  the  missions,  5— 
Visits  since  last  conference,  6 — Favorable  attitude  towards  the 
Church,  6 — An  illustration  of  the  former  attitude  in  England,  6 — 
Tributes  paid  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  7 — Monument  to  the  Three 
Witnesses  dedicated,  8 — Thousands  in  all  parts  have  a  testimony,  8 — 
Christ  is  denied  by  many,  8 — The  testimony  of  the  Saints,  10 — 
Marriage  for  time  and  eternity,  10 — An  illustration,  with  testimony 
and  comments  thereon,  10 — Testimony  cf  a  miner,  12 — Knowledge 
counts  in  testimony,  13 — Testimony  of  healing,  14 — On  observing 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  another  testimony,  15 — Still  another  testimony 
of  the  healing  power,  16 — Testimony  of  the  gift  of  tongues,  16 — 


Testimony  of  prophecy  through  the  gift  of  tongues,  17. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J     24 

Concerning  telephone  reports  about  radio  service,  24. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   42 

Announcing  Tabernacle  Choir  concert,  42—  Announcing  opening  of 

Arizona  temple  in  October,  42. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J    112 

Introducing  stake  presidents,  112. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  133 

Concerning  telegrams  of  radio  service,  133. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  152 

Concerning  Catholic  Encyclopedia,  152. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  172 

Presenting  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  "172. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  174 


Growth  of  the  Church  in  power  and  testimony,  174 — -Regret  no  time 
to  hear  from  more  stake  presidents,  174 — New  stake  tabernacle  in 
Los  Angeles,  174 — Ours  an  American  Church,  175 — Testimonies  and 
warnings  endorsed,  175 — Call  to  repentance  our  supreme  obliga- 


tion, 175. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H    139 

Henderson,  Elder  Wm.  J   40 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   19 


Speak  the  truth,  19 — The  Church  criticized,  19 — An  example,  20 — 
A  reply  to  the  accusations,  20 — The  Latter-day  Saints  a  Christian 
community,  20 — Apostasy  not  growing,  21 — Tithes  are  paid  by  men 
and  women,  21 — Strong  belief  in  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph 
Smith,   21 — Prophecies   on   the   Latter-day  dispensation,   21 — The 


prophecies  fulfilled,  23 — Our  claim,  testimony  and  appeal,  23. 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  .      .  .  . ,  69 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden     52 

Knight,  Elder  John  M    .  ..116 


INDEX 


170 


Mickelson,  Elder  Henry  M  127 

McKay,  Elder  David  0  102 

A  people  of  strong  convictions,  102 — Two  potent  convictions,  102 — 
A  desire  to  make  all  people  Christians,  102 — What  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  doing  to  preach  the  gospel,  103 — Why  the  world  tfeeds 
Christianizing,  104 — Are  the  so-called  "Mormons"  Christians?  104 — 
This  entails  great  responsibility  on  us  at  home,  10(5 — Qualifications 
of  missionaries  and  the  home,  106. 

Neff,  Elder  Eugene  J     47 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   25 

The  Saints  better  understood,  25 — Persistence  of  the  Church,  25 — 
The  power  that  leads  and  guides,  26 — We  have  the  words  of  eternal 
life,  27 — The  missionary  and  his  flock,  27 — The  Priesthood  the 
power  that  leads,  28 — The  power  of  the  Priesthood  paramount,  29. 


Orme,  Elder  C.  Alvin   112 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  169 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   62 

Redd,  Elder  Wayne  H  .114 

Richards,  Elder  George  F.   88 


The  work  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord,  88 — The  gospel  ,to  be  taught,  88 
— Faith  the  moving  cause,  89 — Testimonies  have  strengthened 
faith,  89 — Further  concerning  testimony,  89 — The  Lord  has  raised 
Witnesses  to  testify,  90 — Their  testimonies  will  stand  against  the 
world,  91 — Monument  to  the  Three  Witesses  and  their  testimony,  91 
— Book  of  Mormon  testifies  of  the  witnesses.  91 — The  testimony  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  92. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  153 

Intelligent  response  to  the  spirit  of  the  speaker,  153— There  are  the 
wayward,  the  careless,  the  indifferent,  153 — Our  obligation  to  in- 
terpret the  gospel  to  the  negligent,  153— Changes  in  the  physical 
world  and  the  ways  of  thought,  154 — A  pioneer  experience;  she  de- 
pended on  God,  154 — Just  as  necessary  to  appeal  for  divine  pro- 
tection today,  155— Need  of  interpreting  the  gospel  in  the  language 


of  youth.  155— Testimony,  155. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H  ^33 

Rolapp,  Elder  Henry  H  "l44 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   77 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   96 

Sloan,  Elder  Wm.  R  121 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  161 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   82 


The  weather  fifty-seven  years  ago,  82 — Many  changes  in  our 
lives,  82 — The  gospel  will  be  proclaimed  in  power,  82 — Mission  of 
the  men  who  bear  the  Priesthood,  83 — Joseph  Smith's  mission,  83 — 
Testimony  of  Patriarch  John  Smith,  83 — Testimony  of  President 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


George  A.  Smith,  85 — The  faith  of  Asacl  Smith  and  descendents,  86 
— Men  of  strong  Character  have  proclaimed  the  gospel,  86 — Let  us 
teach  onr  children  the  gospel  in  the  home,  87 — Testimony,  87. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  107 

Purpose  of  the  conference,  107— The  faith  of  young  Latter-day 
Saints,  107 — Significant  quotation  from  Daniel,  108 — Worldly  re- 
ligious systems,  108 — The  enemy  shall  not  overcome,  109 — There 
are  some  tares  in  the  Church,  109 — Great  things  to  take  place  in 
this  age,  109 — The  restored  Church  not  to  he  removed,  110 — False 
systems  to  be  destroyed,  110  -Advice  and  admonition  to  the 
Saints,  111 — Necessary  to  walk  in  the  full  light  of  truth,  111. 

Sweeten,  Elder  Colen  H  128 

Tadje,  Elder  Fred  J  146 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H  120 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   116 

Wells,  Elder  John  .  .  165 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   72 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F     96 

A  common  error,  96 — The  true  title,  96 — The  gospel's  antiquity,  96 — 
The  machinery  and  the  power,  97 — The  dispensations,  97 — Adam's 
presidency,  98 — The  Priesthood,  98 — Ancient  of  Days,  99 — A  close 
relationship,  99 — Enoch  and  Zion,  99 — As  it  was  so  shall  it  be,  100 — 
Abraham  and  the  covenant.  100 — Mission  of  the  Christ,  101. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   29 

An  evidence  of  the  genuineness  of  the  work,  29 — We  should  practice 
all  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  30 — Our  duty  in  serving  the  dead,  30 
— Our  nearness  to  the  spirit  world,  31 — The  spirit  of  the  age  drawn 
toward  the  dead,  31— The  spirit  of  Elijah  resting  upon  the  people.  32 
— Testimony,  32. 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S   58 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   150 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 

THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.50 

Full' Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol   6.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 


For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING-$1.75 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 


SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


P.  O.  BOX  1793 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 


Read: 

"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth.  It  treats  the  Restoration  clearly,  and  places  before 
the  people  many  things  that  have  not  been  generally  considered  here- 
tofore. It  will  be  a  means  of  strengthening  the  faith  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  and  will  impart  information  that  is  invaluable.  May  the  spirit 
of  truth  accompany  the  work  and  rest  upon  all  those  who  diligently 
read  it  with  a  desire  to  learn  and  profit  by  the  Restoration  of  the 
Gospel!" 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 
PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


A  HELPFUL  BOOK  IN  THESE  TIMES  OF  CONTROVERSY 

Science  and  Belief  in  God 

By  FREDERICK  J.  PACK 

A  discussion  of  Certain  Phases  of  Science  and  Their  Bearing  Upon 
Belief  in  the  Supreme  Being. 

$2.50  POSTPAID 


Articles  of  Faith 

By  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  .who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  t!he  "Mormons." 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


