


fttfc.  ZCuncftecL  Jwmhf-fi/i&L 


- 


SEMI-ANNUAL 

confffitocf 

■ 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

S&pbmJb&A.  29,  30,  and. 
Odtoboh.  1,  1950 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

y  j>.      ^)'' '  Publj'shsd  by -the  ''/^f^'' 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


disL  Liu  jcclUqjcL  . . . 

"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have  been 
made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  discredited  or 
abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 


JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET  $3.50 

By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.50 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  $2.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT   $1.75 

By  Nephi  L.  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  to  consider  about  him  is  the 
caliber  of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what  they 
accomplished  under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of  their 
testimonies: 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 


HIS  WORK  $3.00 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER  $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS  $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON  $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 
-  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  - 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
September  29,  30  and  October  1,  1950. 

General  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and 
2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  September  30, 
at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  were  broadcast  over 
Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  following 
stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KSVC  at 
Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  (Friday  and  Saturday  morning 
and  Sunday  afternoon  sessions)  and  KBlO  at  Burley  (Friday  and 
Sunday  sessions ) . 

In  Oregon:  The  morning  sessions  over  KSRV  at  Ontario,  and 
the  Sunday  sessions  over  KLBM  at  LaGrande. 

In  Arizona:  By  transcription  over  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

In  Colorado:  By  direct  line  and  transcription  over  KEXO  at 
Grand  Junction. 

The  services  of  the  general  sessions  were  also  televised  over 
KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  and  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  just  south  of 
the  Tabernacle,  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main)  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 
In  addition,  many  who  could  not  find  accommodation  in  any  one  of 
these  buildings  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  listened 
to  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle,  by  means 
of  amplifying  equipment. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  at 
each  of  the  general  meetings.  He  conducted  the  services  at  the 
Friday  morning,  Sunday  morning,  and  Sunday  afternoon  sessions, 
also  the  General  Priesthood  meeting.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  Friday  after- 
noon and  Saturday  afternoon  sessions.  President  David  O.  McKay 
conducted  the  Saturday  morning  meeting. 

Included  in  this  report  of  the  Conference  is  also  a  report  of 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29  First  Day 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast, 
Sunday  morning  from  8:30  to  9:00,  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  Broadcast  from  9:00  to  9:30  a.m. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  *  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  **,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen, 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E. 
Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon 
Stapley.*** 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Marion  G. 
Romney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  and  Alma  Sonne. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  ****  ,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program.. 

Members  of  the  General  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  Seminary  Supervisors,  and  Directors  and  associate  Di- 
rectors of  Institutes. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  Elders;  General,  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of 
Auxiliary  Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

*  President  George  F.  Richards,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  passed  away 
August  8,  1950. 
**  Stephen  L  Richards  was  absent,  visiting  missions  in  Europe. 
*  "Delbert  Leon  Stapley  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death 
of  President  George  F.  Richards. 
****S.  Dilworth  Young  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  3 
FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  commenced  Friday  morning,  September  29,  at 
10  o'clock,  with  President  George  Albert  Smith  presiding  and  con- 
ducting the  services  of  the  first  session. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  welcome  you  to  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Semi-An- 
nual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  are  glad  to  see  so  many  of  you  here.  We  hope  that  those  who 
have  not  seats  will  be  able  to  crowd  in  so  that  no  one  will  be  com- 
pelled to  stand. 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  in  attendance 
except  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  is  visiting  the  European  Missions,  and  President  S.  Dilworth 
Young  who  is  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

These  services,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  Conference,  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North 
Main  Street,  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

This  service,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  Conference,  will  be 
broadcast  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL,  over  the  following  Stations:  in  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar 
City,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KSUB  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal;  in  Ida- 
ho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KV- 
MV  at  Twin  Falls  Friday  and  Saturday  morning  and  Sunday  after- 
noon sessions,  and  the  Friday  and  Sunday  sessions  over  KBIO  at 
Burley;  in  Oregon:  the  morning  sessions  over  KSRV  at  Ontario,  and 
the  Sunday  sessions  over  KLBM  at  LaGrande;  by  transcription  over 
KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona;  and  by  direct  line  and  transcription  over 
KEXO  at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

We  are  very  grateful  to  the  stations  named  for  their  coopera- 
tion in  broadcasting  the  proceedings  of  this  Conference.  We  thank 
them  for  their  service,  which  will  continue  throughout  the  Confer- 
ence. In  the  interest  of  time  we  shall  not  repeat  this  announcement 
at  every  session. 

All  general  sessions  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  five. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  will  be  by  the 
Combined  Chorus  of  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cache  Region  and 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

Salt  Lake  City  Stakes,  with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  con- 
ducting and  with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  Organ. 

We  will  begin  this  service  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Moth- 
ers singing  "The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Delbert  F. 
Wright,  Oakland  Stake,  California. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  hymn  "The  Lord 
Is  My  Shepherd." 

President  Delbert  F.  Wright  of  the  Oakland  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Unto  Thee  I  Lift 
Mine  Eyes." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

This  is  a  beautiful  picture  this  morning,  to  see  the  Lord's  house 
filled  with  his  children  who  have  come  here  to  worship.  Since  our 
last  conference  many  things  have  occurred.  While  our  Singing 
Mothers  were  singing,  I  thought  of  one  of  our  brothers  who  went  to 
the  South  Seas  with  me  about  thirteen  years  ago.  When  we  ar- 
rived at  British  Samoa,  the  people  were  having  a  holiday.  We  had 
been  persuaded  to  stay  aboard  the  boat  at  night  because  it  could 
not  go  around  the  reef,  and  we  could  not  land  in  small  boats  in  the 
dark.  We  were  told  that  the  people  wanted  to  give  us  a  welcome, 
so  there  was  nothing  else  for  us  to  do.  We  could  not  wade  it,  so 
we  had  to  wait  until  they  took  us  in. 

Welcome  in  Apia 

The  boat  anchored,  and  the  next  morning  out  came  a  war  canoe 
all  decorated  and  rowed  by  great  husky  men,  one  oar  to  a  man,  and 
there  were  fifteen  oarsmen  including  the  captain.  They  had  per- 
suaded us  to  wait  because  they  said  they  wanted  to  give  us  a  royal 
welcome,  and  when  we  arrived,  it  was  a  real  welcome.  Everybody 
was  out,  apparently.  People  were  all  along  the  shore.  Among  them 
was  a  group  of  women,  more  than  a  hundred,  all  dressed  in  light- 
colored  dresses  of  tapa  cloth  made  from  the  bark  of  the  mulberry 
tree.  They  had  made  them  themselves  for  that  occasion. 

When  I  saw  this  group  of  Singing  Mothers  all  dressed  alike 
this  morning,  my  mind  went  back  to  Apia  and  Brother  Rufus  K. 
Hardy  who  was  with  me  on  that  trip.  He  has  been  gone  a  long 
time. 

Those  Singing  Mothers  sang  beautifully  at  our  meetings  and  at 
such  celebrations  as  they  had,  as  our  sisters  have  sung  this  morning. 
And  since  that  time  I  have  heard  the  Singing  Mothers  in  many 
places,  but  I  think  I  have  never  been  more  impressed  with  them  than 
I  was  there  in  the  islands. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  5 


Brethren  Who  Have  Gone 

Our  first  meeting  was  in  the  open  air,  and  there  were  between 
two  and  three  thousand  people  whom  the  Singing  Mothers  enter- 
tained. But  the  thought  that  came  into  my  mind  is  that  Brother  Hardy 
is  gone.  He  has  finished  his  work.  Since  our  last  conference  Presi- 
dent George  F.  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  has  finished 
his  mission  and  has  gone  to  find  his  reward.    I  miss  these  brethren. 

I  am  glad  that  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay  is  here  this  morning. 
He  has  had  a  long  siege  of  illness.  I  am  sure  that  Brother  Stephen 
L  Richards  and  those  with  him  are  having  a  real  experience.  In  all 
probability  they  are  in  the  vicinity  of  Jerusalem  today. 

Joy  of  Conference  Meetings 

It  is  a  joy  to  come  to  one  of  these  conference  meetings  and  meet 
people  not  only  from  all  sections  of  the  United  States,  but  also 
from  other  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  gatherings 
of  religious  people  that  meet  anywhere  in  the  world,  and  you  will 
find  no  other  such  place  in  all  the  world  dedicated  to  the  Lord  for 
worship. 

I  would  like  us  all  to  remember  that  this  is  the  Lord's  house. 
You  will  find  no  other  place  in  all  the  world  dedicated  to  the  Lord 
that  gathers  together  a  congregation  such  as  is  here  this  morning, 
many  of  whom  have  come  thousands  of  miles,  not  to  see  and  be 
seen,  but  to  wait  upon  the  Lord.  And  he  has  promised  us  that  if 
even  two  or  three  shall  meet  together  in  his  name,  he  will  be  there 
to  bless  them. 

This  morning,  that  we  may  claim  our  blessings,  there  are  ap- 
proximately ten  thousand  here  in  the  Tabernacle  and  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall — all  at  worship.  There  are  thousands  more  enjoying 
the  conference  by  means  of  radio  and  television.  We  are  here  in 
the  name  of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  I  am  sure  when  we  go 
from  this  conference  back  to  our  homes,  we  will  have  an  intense 
desire  to  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  only  gospel 
that  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

Observance  of  Commandments 

This  morning,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  congratulate  you:  Not 
that  you  are  here,  but  that  you  are  here  to  worship.  What  a  priv- 
ilege it  is  to  worship  the  Lord  and  to  do  it  in  the  way  he  has  indi- 
cated. There  are  some  people  who  are  members  of  the  Church — 
their  names  are  on  the  record,  and  they  have  an  idea  that  that  is  all 
that  is  necessary — but  the  time  will  come  when  they  will  have  to 
face  their  record,  and  their  admission  into  the  celestial  kingdom  will 
be  conditioned  upon  the  way  they  have  observed  the  advice  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  right  here  upon  earth.  How  grateful  we  ought 
to  be,  not  to  be  uncertain  as  to  where  we  are  going. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

I  had  a  man  say  to  me  one  day  after  I  had  taught  the  gospel 
to  him  for  an  hour  or  so  on  a  train,  "I'd  give  a  lot  to  have  the  as- 
surance that  you  have."  And  I  replied:  "You  do  not  have  to  give 
anything  to  have  the  assurance  that  I  have  except  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.  If  you  do  that,  you  will  know  that  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  is  on  earth.  You  will  know  that  the  authority 
of  the  priesthood  is  on  earth." 

How  beautiful  it  is  to  realize  that  men  who  are  worthy  may 
receive  that  priesthood,  and  in  the  authority  that  is  given  them,  do 
so  many  things  that  are  a  blessing  to  our  Father's  other  children. 

Faith  Grows  With  Righteousness 

Within  the  week,  I  listened  to  one  of  the  brethren  who  has  just 
returned  from  the  mission  field.  He  has  been  out  nearly  five  years, 
and  he  told  of  some  of  the  experiences  in  the  field.  He  told  of  peo- 
ple that  had  illness  and  the  doctors  did  everything  they  could  for 
them,  but  they  could  not  heal  them.  But  the  humble  missionaries, 
the  humble  men  who  held  the  priesthood,  placed  their  hands  upon 
the  heads  of  those  who  were  afflicted  and  rebuked  their  ailments, 
and  they  were  healed. 

That  would  not  occur  without  faith,  and  our  faith  is  conditioned 
upon  our  righteous  lives.  We  cannot  live  improperly  and  have  faith 
as  we  should,  but  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  we 
can  have  faith,  and  it  will  grow  and  increase  as  our  righteousness 
increases. 

Political  Campaign 

I  am  happy  to  be  here  with  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in 
the  Lord's  house  to  wait  upon  him.  We  are  right  now  in  the  midst 
of  a  political  campaign  here  in  America.  It  ought  to  be  a  source 
of  education  to  the  people.  It  ought  to  inspire  men  and  women  to 
choose  for  their  officers  in  the  various  sections  of  the  country,  par- 
ticularly in  the  nation,  men  and  women  who  believe  in  God.  That 
is  their  privilege,  but  unfortunately  so  many  times  people  become 
allied  with  a  group,  and  they  insist  on  everybody  supporting  the  in- 
dividual that  they  support,  and  the  result  is  a  campaign  of  bitterness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  you  have  your  agency;  you  do  not  have  to 
be  angry  with  your  brother  and  your  sister  because  they  do  not  see 
as  you  do.  We  are  not  supposed  to  criticize  and  find  fault  with 
the  members  of  the  Catholic  Church,  the  Presbyterian  Church,  the 
Methodist  Church,  because  they  cannot  understand  all  of  the  gospel. 

I  think  it  is  fine  to  encourage  them  to  understand  all  that  they 
have  and  then  add  to  it.  Now  if  that  is  true  in  regard  to  our  re- 
ligious belief,  surely  we  will  not  lose  our  way  during  a  political  cam- 
paign, and  cultivate  anger  and  displeasure  and  hatred  for  those  who 
do  not  believe  as  we  do. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  7 


Constitution  of  the  United  States 

And  that  brings  me  to  something  that  is  frequently  on  my  mind. 
No  nation  in  the  world  has  a  constitution  that  was  given  to  it  by 
our  Heavenly  Father  except  the  United  States  of  America.  I  won- 
der if  we  appreciate  that.  The  Lord  gave  us  a  rule  of  life  for  this 
great  nation,  and  as  far  as  we  have  lived  up  to  it  and  taken  ad- 
vantage of  it,  the  nation  has  grown,  and  the  people  have  been 
blessed.  But  there  are  many  people  who  prefer,  or  at  least  they 
seem  to  prefer,  something  else. 

As  one  man  said  to  me,  "Why  not  try  what  Russia  has  tried 
and  Germany  has  tried?"  And  my  answer  to  him  was,  "Why  try 
something  that  has  already  failed?  Why  not  hold  on  to  what  the 
Lord  has  given?"  The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  writ- 
ten, it  is  true,  by  men,  George  Washington,  Benjamin  Franklin,  and 
others  who  were  their  associates,  but  we  have  in  this  book  that  I 
have  in  my  hand,  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a  revela- 
tion in  which  the  Lord  tells  us  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  prepared  by  men  raised  up  by  him  for  this  very  purpose. 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  ought  to  know  that  there  is  nothing 
better  anywhere  else.  And  so  we  should  cleave  to  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  and  in  doing  so,  earn  the  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

Observance  of  Ten  Commandments 

It  was  a  long  time  ago  that  the  Lord  gave  to  Moses  the  Ten 
Commandments.  If  the  people  of  the  world  had  observed  the  Ten 
Commandments  from  that  time  until  now,  we  would  have  a  different 
world.  There  would  be  millions  of  people  who  would  live  longer 
than  they  have  lived  and  be  happier.  The  Ten  Commandments  are 
in  force  today,  and  if  we  are  good  Latter-day  Saints  and  are  ob- 
serving what  the  Lord  has  advised,  among  other  things,  we  will 
honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  not  make  it  a  day  of  pleasure.  The  Con- 
stitution guarantees  us  liberty  that  no  other  nation  enjoys.  Most 
of  the  nations  are  losing  the  liberties  they  have  had  because  they 
have  not  kept  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

Most  of  the  difficulty  is  the  bid  that  is  made  by  the  leadership 
of  nations  to  people  that  if  they  will  follow  the  plan  that  the  leaders 
map  out,  they  will  be  fed  and  clothed  without  having  to  work  so 
hard  for  it,  but  it  does  not  work.  People  are  being  misled  with  the 
idea  that  they  can  get  something  for  nothing  and  are  not  encour- 
aged to  work  for  what  they  need  and  desire. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  you  are  approaching  a  political  campaign. 
Go  to  the  Lord  in  prayer.  Seek  his  guidance.  We  do  not  want 
to  turn  this  nation  over  to  the  folly  of  the  teachings  of  other  na- 
tions that  have  failed.  What  we  should  do  is  to  cling  to  what  we 
have,  and  it  is  wonderful  what  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  in  this  nation. 

Now  it  does  not  make  any  difference  to  me  what  a  man's  poli- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday.  September  29  First  Day 

tics  is;  as  long  as  he  observes  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  he 
will  be  a  safe  companion  and  associate.  We  should  not  lose  our 
tempers  and  abuse  one  another.  I  want  to  say  that  nobody  ever 
abused  anybody  else  when  he  had  the  spirit  of  the  Lord.  It  is  al- 
ways when  we  have  some  other  spirit. 

Seek  the  Lord 

Seek  the  Lord,  brothers  and  sisters.  We  do  not  have  to  live 
as  they  are  living  in  many  other  parts  of  the  world.  We  can  con- 
tinue to  live  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  worship. 
One  of  the  most  populous  nations  in  all  the  world  restricts  the  peo- 
ple in  their  worship.  They  cannot  worship  as  we  do  here,  and  yet 
there  are  many  people  in  our  land  who  would  like  to  try  what  they 
are  doing  over  there  because  they  want  something  different. 

I  hold  in  my  hand  a  copy  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
in  it  the  Lords  tells  us  another  thing,  to  pray  for  and  sustain  the 
Constitution  of  the  land  and  those  who  represent  us  in  its  offices. 
So,  pray  for  the  President  of  the  United  States,  pray  for  those  who 
have  been  elected  to  Congress,  pray  for  your  governor  and  the  mem- 
bers of  your  legislature.  If  they  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  they 
cannot  go  wrong;  but  without  it  they  can  go  a  long  way  on  the  by- 
path. 

Hawaiian  Centennial 

Here  we  are  this  morning,  on  a  beautiful  day.  No  people  could 
be  more  comfortable  in  worship  than  we  are  this  morning.  I  am  so 
grateful  that  I  am  able  to  be  present.  Recently  I,  with  a  group  of 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  went  to  Hawaii  to  celebrate  the  centennial 
of  preaching  the  gospel  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  Some  of  our  party 
expected  to  find  most  of  the  people  Hawaiian.  But  it  was  found 
there  were  Hawaiians,  Japanese,  Chinese,  Portuguese,  Samoans,  and 
several  other  nations  I  might  name,  all  living  there  at  peace.  When 
our  meeting  was  held  in  a  large  building,  all  of  those  races  were 
there  as  members  of  the  Church. 

Gospel  For  All  People 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  just  for  us.  It  is  for  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world,  all  our  Father's  children,  and  at  the  present  time  we 
have  over  5800  missionaries  out  in  the  world,  from  this  little  Church. 
What  for?  To  go  to  all  these  people  and  say,  "Keep  all  the  good 
things  that  you  have,  keep  all  that  God  has  given  you  that  enriches 
your  life,  and  then  let  us  share  something  with  you  that  will  add  to 
your  happiness  and  increase  your  satisfaction."  That  is  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  happiness  is  conditioned  upon 
our  loving  our  fellow  men,  all  of  whom  are  children  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  9 


Right  here  on  this  block  is  one  of  the  greatest  missionary  fields 
in  the  world.  I  see  a  man  sitting  down  here  in  the  audience  who 
spends  much  of  his  time  with  the  people  on  this  block.  He  is  a  won- 
derful missionary  and  just  as  happy  as  he  can  be  when  he  is  talking 
about  it.  When  we  are  doing  missionary  work  to  bless  the  people, 
we  are  doing  it  under  the  influence  of  the  Lord,  and  we  are  sure  to 
be  happy. 

Spirit  of  Prayer  and  Gratitude 

We  welcome  you  all  here  this  morning.  Let  us  all  come  into 
this  house,  into  the  houses  that  may  be  necessary  to  be  used  for  the 
conference,  with  a  spirit  of  prayer,  the  spirit  of  gratitude.  Let  us 
appeal  to  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  and  then  those  who  address  us  will 
be  inspired.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  live  in  such  a  way  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  can  have  us  in  his  keeping,  that  we  may  have  joy 
and  satisfaction,  and  we  will  have  if  we  have  this  Spirit. 

I  pray  that  his  peace  may  be  with  us  during  the  continuance  of 
this  meeting  and  the  other  meetings  of  the  conference,  that  we  may 
meet  with  a  feeling  of  gratitude  for  all  our  blessings.  And  when  the 
conference  is  concluded,  and  we  return  to  our  homes,  may  we  do  so 
with  the  appreciation  of  the  fact  that  we  did  wait  upon  the  Lord  and 
that  he  fulfilled  his  promise  and  was  with  us  to  bless  us.  I  pray  that 
we  may  be  filled  with  that  spirit  that  comes  from  him,  and  that  is  a 
spirit  of  love,  of  kindness  and  helpfulness  and  of  patience  and  for- 
bearance. Then,  if  we  keep  that  spirit  with  us  in  our  homes,  our  boys 
and  girls  will  grow  up  to  be  what  we  would  like  them  to  be. 

That  the  Lord  may  add  his  blessing,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  George  Albert  Smith  says  that  this  is  a  wonderful 
sight.  To  that  I  agree.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  look  into  the 
faces  of  men  and  women  whose  lives  are  clean;  who  have  faith  in 
God;  who  have  made  covenants  to  serve.  President  Smith  further 
says  that  salvation  comes  through  the  keeping  of  the  commandments 
of  God.  We  do  not  believe  that  salvation  comes  from  lip  service, 
merely  a  confession  with  our  lips  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  It  comes 
through  obedience  to  every  principle  and  eternal  truth  pertaining 
to  our  exaltation.  Let  me  read  to  you  words  of  the  Lord  given  to 
his  disciples  on  this  continent  as  he  stood  in  their  presence. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  whoso  repenteth  and  is  baptized  in 
my  name  shall  be  filled;  and  if  he  endureth  to  the  end,  behold,  him  will 
I  hold  guiltless  before  my  Father  at  that  day  when  I  shall  stand  to  judge 
the  world. 

And  he  that  endureth  not  unto  the  end,  the  same  is  he  that  is  also 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  from  whence  they  can  no  more  return, 
because  of  the  justice  of  the  Father. 

And  this  is  the  word  which  he  hath  given  unto  the  children  of  men. 
And  for  this  cause  he  fulfllleth  the  words  which  he  hath  given,  and  he 
lieth  not,  but  fulfllleth  all  his  words. 

And  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing 
entereth  into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have  washed  their  garments  in 
my  blood,  because  of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance  of  all  their  sins, 
and  their  faithfulness  unto  the  end. 

These  words  that  I  have  read  to  you  are  from  the  twenty-sev- 
enth chapter  of  III  Nephi,  verses  16-19  inclusive. 

Lamb's  Book  of  Life 

One  of  my  great  sorrows  is  that  so  many  members  of  the  Church 
fail  to  recognize  this  truth  which  I  have  read.  We  are  not  going 
to  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God  just  because  our  names  are  on 
the  records  of  the  Church.  It  will  require  more  than  that.  We 
will  have  to  have  our  names  written  in  the  Lamb's  Book  of  Life, 
and  if  they  are  written  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  Life  then  it  is  an  evi- 
dence we  have  kept  the  commandments.  Every  soul  who  will  not 
keep  those  commandments  shall  have  his  name  blotted  out  of  that 
book. 

World  Rejects  Blessings 

I  am  exceedingly  grateful  this  morning  for  the  knowledge  which 
I  have,  limited  as  it  is,  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  of  the  things 
that  have  been  revealed  for  our  salvation;  for  the  opportunities  which 
come  to  us  to  give  service  to  the  Church  and  to  our  fellow  men.  We 
have  so  many  blessings  that  the  world  does  not  have.  The  world 
could  have  them,  but  it  will  not.  As  the  Savior  said,  speaking  par- 
ticularly of  the  Jews,  many  a  time  would  he  have  gathered  them  as 
a  hen  gathers  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  they  would  not. 
I  wish  that  every  honest  soul  in  this  world  would  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon;  would  read  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants;  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  besides  reading  the  Bible.  What  a  glorious  privilege 
is  ours.  The  so-called  Christian  world,  divided  and  subdivided, 
maintains  that  the  Bible  contains  all  of  the  word  of  God.  To  them 
the  Lord  has  never  given  a  revelation.  According  to  its  teachings 
nothing  has  come  from  the  heavens  by  way  of  counsel  and  advice 
or  revelation,  comparable  to  that  which  we  find  in  what  they  are 
pleased  to  call  the  canon  of  scripture. 

Not  long  ago,  as  I  was  on  the  train  coming  home,  a  minister 
said  to  me  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  a  fraud  because  in  the  last 
chapter  of  the  book  of  Revelation  the  Lord  so  declared  it.  Let  me 
read  those  words. 

And  if  any  man  shall  take  away  from  the  words  of  the  book  of  this 
prophecy,  God  shall  take  away  his  part  out  of  the  book  of  life,  and  out 
of  the  holy  city,  and  from  the  things  which  are  written  in  this  book. 
(Rev.  22:19.) 


* 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  11 

I  said  to  him,  "My  good  friend,  don't  you  know  that  when 
that  was  written  we  had  no  Bible?"  This  Bible  was  not  compiled  as 
we  have  it  when  that  was  written.  That  has  reference  merely  to 
this  Book  of  Revelation.  Then  he  was  sorry  that  he  had  spoken. 
Well,  all  they  have  is  what  is  contained  in  this  book  (the  Bible), 
this  record  that  closed  nearly  two  thousand  years  ago. 

Advantages  Enjoyed 

See  the  advantage,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have.  Not  only 
do  we  have  the  revelations  given  to  the  prophets  of  ancient  Israel, 
given  by  our  Savior  when  he  was  on  the  earth  and  by  his  disciples 
in  that  first  century,  but  the  Lord  has  continued  to  speak;  he  has 
given  many  revelations  to  others.  We  have  them.  We  are  blessed 
with  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  contains  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel so  clearly  stated,  that  we  do  not  stumble  over  them.  We  have 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  is  our  book  particularly,  con- 
taining the  revelations  given  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  to  all  the  world  if  it  will  have  them.  This  book 
isn't  just  for  us,  but  we  have  it.  The  world  won't  have  it.  See 
what  it  could  have  if  it  would.  It  could  have  information,  knowledge 
and  wisdom  pertaining  to  the  salvation  of  men,  that  can't  be  found 
in  the  Bible.  I  have  said,  and  I  think  I  am  right,  that  there  isn't 
one  principle  pertaining  to  the  salvation  of  men  that  is  so  clearly 
stated  in  the  Bible,  as  it  has  come  down  to  us,  that  men  do  not 
stumble  over — not  one  thing.  There  is  not  one  principle  they  can  be 
united  on  that  has  been  so  clearly  stated  that  they  don't  find  their 
interpretations  of  it  conflicting. 

The  Vision 

Do  you  want  to  know  about  the  resurrection  of  the  dead?  Who 
is  going  to  be  saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God?  Then  read 
your  Book  of  Mormon.  Read  your  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The 
seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  known  as  The 
Vision,  is  the  clearest,  most  concise  statement  regarding  salvation 
that  I  know  anything  about,  and  I  doubt  if  the  Lord  ever  gave  to 
any  people  at  any  time  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  anything  clearer 
than  this  revelation.  Do  the  people  of  the  world  know  where  they 
are  going  when  they  die?  No.  They  sing  about  a  beautiful  isle 
of  somewhere.  They  don't  know.  Can  they  find  out  in  the  Bible? 
Yes,  we  can  find  it.  They  could  find  it  if  they  had  the  right  inspira- 
tion, but  with  the  added  help  that  we  obtain  from  the  records  the 
Lord  has  given  us.  we  don't  stumble  over  that.  We  don't  stumble 
over  baptism  and  how  it  should  be  performed  and  by  whom.  We 
have  a  clear  and  perfect  understanding  of  the  nature  of  God.  Now, 
I  can  find  that  in  the  Bible;  so  can  you.  So  can  they,  if  they  would 
search  for  it  in  the  spirit  of  faith;  but  they  stumble  over  it;  and  yet 
they  are  not  willing  to  accept  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  given  in 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

the  day  and  dispensation  in  which  they  live  that  would  set  forth 
clearly  to  them  all  these  principles  of  eternal  truth.  How  greatly 
are  we  blessed! 

Book  of  Mormon 

Then  I  have  this  regret,  that  so  many  members  of  the  Church 
do  not  avail  themselves  of  this  information.  The  Lord  was  kind 
enough  and  so  deeply  concerned  in  the  matter  that  he  sent  an  angel 
from  his  presence  to  reveal  the  Book  of  Mormon.  For  ages  he  pre- 
pared the  Book  of  Mormon  that  it  might  come  forth  to  the  con- 
vincing, it  says,  of  both  Jew  and  Gentile  and  the  remnant  upon  this 
land,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  It  was  to  come  forth  in  a  day  when 
men  would  be  denying  the  Christ.  Isn't  that  true?  Is  not  the  world 
today  getting  farther  and  farther  away  from  a  knowledge  concern- 
ing the  Son  of  God?  Are  not  the  peoples  of  the  earth  beginning, 
if  they  have  not  already  reached  the  point,  to  deny  the  literal  resur- 
rection of  the  body  and  are  questioning  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord 
himself  and  his  godhood?  The  Book  of  Mormon  said  that  would 
be  the  case  and  that  it  was  to  come  forth  as  a  testimony,  as  a  wit- 
ness to  men  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  World,  and  that  men  will  be  saved  and  exalted  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  by  keeping  their  hearts  pure  and  obeying  all  of  his  com- 
mandments.  These  things  the  Lord  has  impressed  upon  us. 

Covenant  at  Baptism 

In  conclusion  let  me  read  the  covenant  we  make  when  we  are 
baptized  and  come  into  this  Church. 

All  those  who  humble  themselves  before  God  and  desire  to  be  bap- 
tized, and  come  forth  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite  spirits,  and  witness 
before  the  church  that  they  have  truly  repented  of  all  their  sins,  and  are 
willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  having  a  determina- 
tion to  serve  him  to  the  end,  and  truly  manifest  by  their  works  that  they 
have  received  of  the  spirit  of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of  their  sins,  shall 
be  received  by  baptism  into  his  church.  (D.  &  C.  20:37.) 

What  do  you  get  out  of  that?  I  get  this:  that  every  soul  bap- 
tized, truly  baptized,  has  humbled  himself;  his  heart  is  broken;  his 
spirit  is  contrite;  he  has  made  a  covenant  before  God  that  he  will 
keep  his  commandments,  and  he  has  forsaken  all  his  sins.  Then 
after  he  gets  into  the  Church,  is  it  his  privilege  to  sin  after  he  is 
in?  Can  he  let  down?  Can  he  indulge  in  some  of  the  things  which 
the  Lord  has  said  he  should  avoid?  No.  It  is  just  as  necessary  that 
he  have  that  contrite  spirit,  that  broken  heart,  after  he  is  baptized 
as  it  is  before. 

Power  to  Reach  Members 

Oh,  I  wish  we  had  the  power,  we  who  hold  the  priesthood,  to 
reach  every  soul  who  is  not  faithful,  who  is  not  humbled  in  his  heart 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


13 


— members  of  this  Church — that  we  might  bring  them  back  to  a  full 
understanding  of  the  gospel.  Is  it  true  that  some  among  us  have 
an  idea  that  it  matters  not  that  we  sin  so  long  as  it  is  not  a  grievous 
sin,  a  deadly  sin,  that  we  will  yet  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God? 
Nephi  saw  our  day.  He  said  that  people  would  be  saying  that.  But 
I  say  unto  you,  we  cannot  turn  away  from  the  path  of  truth  and 
righteousness  and  retain  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  he  bless  all 
people.  Oh,  I  wish  that  we  would  all  humble  ourselves  and  seek  the 
truth  which  the  Lord  has  declared  to  us  by  his  own  word  in  this  day 
in  which  we  live.  The  Lord  bless  us  all,  help  us  to  be  true  and  faith- 
ful and  keep  his  commandments,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting. 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

President  George  Albert  Smith  said  this  morning  that  it  was 
not  enough  for  people  to  have  their  names  on  the  records  of  the 
Church  in  order  to  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  but  that  it  was 
necessary  to  keep  the  commandments. 

Then  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  said  the  same  thing  and  read 
to  us  the  covenant  of  baptism,  that  is  the  covenant  which  we  take  in 
the  waters  of  baptism. 

A  Covenant  People 

We  are  a  covenant-making  and  a  covenant-taking  people.  We 
have  the  gospel  which  is  the  new  and  the  everlasting  covenant:  new 
in  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  it  anew  in  our  day;  everlasting  in  that 
its  principles  are  eternal,  have  existed  with  God  from  all  eternity,  and 
are  the  same  unchangeable  laws  by  which  all  men  in  all  ages  may  be 
saved.  The  gospel  is  the  covenant  which  God  makes  with  his  chil- 
dren here  on  earth  that  he  will  return  them  to  his  presence  and  give 
them  eternal  life,  if  they  will  walk  in  the  paths  of  truth  and  righteous- 
ness while  here. 

We  are  children  of  the  covenant  which  God  made  with  Abra- 
ham, our  father.  To  Abraham,  God  promised  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion if  he  would  walk  as  the  Lord  taught  him  to  walk.  Further,  the 
Lord  covenanted  with  Abraham  that  he  would  restore  to  Abraham's 
seed  the  same  laws  and  ordinances,  in  all  their  beauty  and  perfec- 
tion, which  that  ancient  patriarch  had  received.  "For  as  many  as  re- 
ceive this  gospel,"  the  Lord  said  to  him,  "shall  be  called  after  thy 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Pridag.  September  29  P'"t  Dag 

name,  and  shall  be  accounted  thy  seed,  and  shall  rise  up  and  bless 
thee,  as  their  father."  (Abraham  2:10.) 

Now  we  have  this  same  everlasting  covenant.  We  have  the 
restored  gospel,  and  every  person  who  belongs  to  the  Church,  who 
has  passed  through  the  waters  of  baptism,  has  had  the  inestimable 
privilege  of  making  a  personal  covenant  with  the  Lord  that  will  save 
him  provided  he  does  the  things  he  agrees  to  do  when  he  enters  into 
that  covenant  with  God. 

Alma's  Explanation 

Alma  recited  this  personal  covenant  of  salvation  at  the  waters 
of  Mormon  in  language  like  this — all  of  it  is,  of  course,  summed  up 
in  the  promise  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God — but  Alma  gives 
these  particulars:  He  says  that  when  we  go  into  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism we  covenant  that  we  will  come  into  the  fold  of  Christ  and  be 
numbered  with  his  people.  We  covenant  that  we  will  take  upon  our- 
selves the  name  of  Christ  and  be  Saints  in  very  deed.  We  covenant 
that  we  will  bear  one  another's  burdens,  that  they  may  be  light.  We 
covenant  that  we  will  mourn  with  those  that  mourn.  We  covenant 
that  we  will  comfort  those  that  stand  in  need  of  comfort.  We  cove- 
nant that  we  will  stand  as  witnesses  of  Christ  and  of  God  at  all  times 
and  in  all  things  and  in  all  places  that  we  may  be  in,  even  until  death. 
Then,  by  way  of  summary,  Alma  says  we  covenant  that  we  will  serve 
God  and  keep  his  commandments. 

The  Lord's  Part 

In  return,  that  is,  if  we  do  all  these  things,  the  Lord  on  his  part 
promises  us  that  we  will  come  forth  in  the  first  resurrection  and  be 
redeemed  of  him;  that  he  will  pour  out  his  Spirit  more  abundantly 
upon  us  while  we  are  here  in  this  life;  and  that  we  will  have  eternal 
life  in  the  world  to  come. 

I  don't  suppose  that  the  Lord  is  making  any  useless  covenants 
with  any  individual;  and  so,  any  person  who  will  keep  this  covenant, 
and  do  all  the  things  required  by  it,  can  have  in  his  heart  the  as- 
surance that  he  will  go  to  the  presence  of  God  and  have  eternal  life 
in  the  mansions  that  are  prepared. 

Renewing  of  Covenant 

So  important  is  this  covenant  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  that  he  has 
provided  for  us  a  means  and  a  way  to  renew  it  often.  The  ordinance 
whereby  we  renew  this  covenant  is  the  ordinance  of  the  sacrament. 
Every  time  we  partake  of  the  sacrament  worthily,  with  humble  hearts 
and  contrite  spirits,  we  agree  again  that  we  will  take  upon  ourselves 
the  name  of  Christ,  always  remember  him,  and  keep  his  command- 
ments which  he  has  given  us.  And  the  Lord  agrees  with  us  again 
that  we  will  always  have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us;  and  further,  that  we 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKlE 


15 


will  have  eternal  life  in  his  kingdom  in  accordance  with  the  revelation 
which  says, 

Whoso  eateth  my  flesh,  and  drinketh  my  blood,  hath  eternal  life;  and 
I  will  raise  him  up  at  the  last  day.  (John  6:54.) 

To  be  saved  is  to  go  to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  heaven.  To  be 
exalted  is  to  gain  the  highest  heaven  or  degree  within  that  glory.  Not 
only  have  we  been  permitted  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  take  the  cove- 
nant of  salvation,  and  to  renew  it  from  time  to  time,  but  we  have  also 
been  privileged  to  enter  into  covenants  which  will  give  us  exaltation 
in  our  Father's  kingdom.  After  a  man  has  taken  the  covenant  of 
baptism  and  has  pressed  forward  in  righteousness  and  steadfastness 
before  the  Lord,  and  has  desired  to  keep  his  commandments,  and 
manifested  by  his  works  that  he  places  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  first  and  will  let  the  things  of  this  world  take  care  of  them- 
selves, there  comes  a  time  when  he  is  called  and  chosen  and  ordained 
to  the  higher  priesthood.  Ordination  to  the  higher  priesthood  in- 
cludes a  covenant  of  exaltation. 

The  Lord  revealed  this  covenant  to  Joseph  Smith  in  this  lan- 
guage: 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by 
the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies. 

They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abra- 
ham, and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 
And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 

And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him. 

And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to 
the  priesthood. 

Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the  priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  my  Father  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved. 

But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant  after  he  hath  received  it,  and  al- 
together turneth  therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this 
world  nor  in  the  world  to  come.  (D.  &  C.  84:33-41.) 

Fulness  of  Blessings 

Now,  according  to  the  revelations  which  we  have  received,  the 
fulness  of  the  priesthood,  meaning,  I  suppose,  the  fulness  of  the  bless- 
ings of  the  priesthood,  is  had  only  in  the  temples  of  God.  There  is 
an  order  of  the  priesthood  which  is  named  the  new  and  everlasting 
covenant  of  marriage.  When  people  enter  into  that  order  of  mar- 
riage, administered  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord,  by  the  Lord's  servants, 
having  the  Lord's  authority,  they  make  a  covenant  of  exaltation,  a 
covenant  that  will  bring  them  up  in  the  resurrection  as  husband  and 
wife.  The  family  unit  will  continue,  and  they  will  gain  the  highest 
reward  and  the  greatest  honor  and  glory  that  our  Father  can  bestow 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Dag 

on  any  of  his  children.  They  will  be  gods,  even  the  sons  of  God, 
and  all  things  will  be  theirs,  for  they  will  receive  of  the  fulness  of 
the  Father. 

These  covenants  which  we  take  in  the  waters  of  baptism  and 
when  we  partake  of  the  sacrament,  if  we  keep  them,  will  guarantee 
us  a  place  in  the  celestial  world.  These  covenants  which  we  take 
when  we  are  ordained  to  the  higher  priesthood,  and  when  we  enter 
into  that  order  of  priesthood  which  is  the  new  and  everlasting  cove- 
nant of  marriage,  if  we  keep  them,  will  guarantee  us  a  place  of  ex- 
altation in  eternity. 

And  as  with  the  covenant  of  baptism,  so  with  the  covenant  of 
marriage:  I  don't  suppose  the  Lord  is  making  a  useless  covenant  with 
us  or  offering  us  something  that  we  are  not  able  to  obtain.  In  each 
instance,  if  we  keep  our  part  of  the  bargain  and  do  the  things  we 
know  we  should,  the  Lord  has  promised  to  do  his  share  and  keep  his 
part  of  the  bargain  and  give  us  the  promised  reward. 

Baptism  A  Gate 

Sometimes  someone  will  say:  "Well,  I  have  been  baptized  into 
the  Church;  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church;  I'll  just  go  along  and  live 
an  ordinary  sort  of  life;  I  won't  commit  any  great  crimes;  I'll  live  a 
reasonably  good  Christian  life;  and  eventually  I  will  gain  the  king- 
dom of  God." 

I  don't  understand  it  that  way.  I  think  that  baptism  is  a  gate. 
It  is  a  gate  which  puts  us  on  a  path;  and  the  name  of  the  path  is  the 
straight  and  narrow  path.  The  straight  and  narrow  path  leads  up- 
ward from  the  gate  of  baptism  to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  heaven. 
After  a  person  has  entered  the  gate  of  baptism,  he  has  to  press  for- 
ward with  a  steadfastness  in  Christ,  as  Nephi  expresses  it,  having  a 
perfect  brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and  of  all  men;  and  if 
he  endures  to  the  end,  then  he  gains  the  promised  reward. 

And  so  it  is  with  marriage  and  exaltation.  Sometimes  people 
think  they  can  enter  into  the  ordinance  of  celestial  marriage  and  then 
be  indifferent  or  lukewarm  or  even  commit  iniquity  and  sin,  and  yet 
figure  that  eventually,  in  the  eternities  that  are  prepared,  after  they 
have  paid  the  penalties  for  their  sins,  they  will  come  up  as  husband 
and  wife  and  enter  into  their  exaltation.  Such  is  not  the  case.  The 
same  principles  apply  to  marriage  and  exaltation  as  apply  to  bap- 
tism and  salvation.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  gaining  salvation  or 
exaltation  except  by  obedience  to  those  laws  upon  which  the  receipt 
of  these  blessings  is  predicated.  Salvation  never  has  been  and  never 
will  be  the  fruit  of  sin. 

Covenants  To  Be  Kept 

After  we  have  been  baptized,  after  we  have  been  married  in  the 
temple,  after  we  have  taken  all  these  covenants,  we  have  to  keep 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  17 


them.  Every  promise  that  we  receive  is  conditioned  upon  our  subse- 
quent faithfulness.  It  is  expressly  so  stated  in  the  marriage  cove- 
nant itself.  We  have  to  be  obedient,  faithful,  and  diligent,  valiant 
in  the  testimony  of  Christ,  walking  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  his  mouth.  By  such  a  course  we  will  sanctify  our  souls. 
When  we  become  sanctified  and  pure,  we  are  capable  and  eligible 
and  worthy  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  our  Father.  No  unclean  thing 
can  dwell  in  his  presence.  The  whole  process  of  salvation,  this  whole 
probation  that  we  are  undergoing  in  mortality,  is  to  permit  us  to 
cleanse  and  perfect  and  purify  our  souls.  It  is  to  permit  us  to  take 
evil  and  iniquity  and  carnality  and  everything  that  leads  away  from 
God  out  of  our  souls,  and  replace  those  characteristics  with  right- 
eousness and  virtue  and  truth  and  obedience,  which,  if  we  do,  degree 
by  degree,  will  perfect  us  until  eventually  we  are  clean  and  spotless 
and  pure  and  are  able  to  stand  the  glory  of  the  celestial  world.  If 
we  can't  stand  the  glory  of  the  celestial  kingdom,  we  won't  be  able 
to  go  where  God  and  Christ  are. 

Blessings  to  Follow 

We  get  the  greatest  blessings  that  it  is  possible  for  men  to  get 
here  in  this  life  by  living  the  gospel.  The  world  may  be  in  turmoil, 
torn  and  disheveled;  there  may  be  blood  and  carnage  on  every  hand, 
but  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  we  will  get  the  Holy  Ghost 
for  our  companion  and  guide.  Those  who  have  the  Holy  Ghost  get 
the  peace  which  passeth  understanding.  Now,  that  is  the  greatest 
gift  that  a  person  can  get  while  he  dwells  in  mortality. 

And  then  by  having  kept  those  same  commandments  and  having 
walked  in  that  same  path,  having  kept  those  same  covenants,  we  get 
the  sure  promise  that  we  will  be  inheritors  of  a  celestial  exaltation 
in  the  mansions  that  are  prepared.  The  gospel  gives  us  the  greatest 
blessings  it  is  possible  to  receive  in  time,  and  assures  us  of  the  great- 
est inheritance  it  is  possible  to  gain  in  eternity.  How  grateful  we 
ought  to  be  for  it!  How  anxious  we  should  be  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,  and  the  covenants  that  we  have  made,  so  that  we  may 
have  all  the  choice  and  rich  things  the  Lord  promises  the  Saints.  It 
is  my  prayer  that  we  may  so  do,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  during  the  few  moments  that  I  shall 
stand  before  you.  I  have  the  high  honor  and  privilege  of  laboring 
with  the  youth  of  the  Church;  and  it  is  a  distinction  and  an  honor  to 
associate  with  Bishop  Richards  and  Bishop  Isaacson,  who  have  the 
welfare  of  the  young  people  at  heart. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Paul's  Admonition 


The  admonition  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  his  younger  associate 
Timothy  is  so  applicable  to  youth: 

Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the  be- 
lievers, in  word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity. 
(I  Timothy  4:12.) 

Through  the  great  youth  program  of  the  Church,  the  admonition 
of  Paul  to  Timothy  is  being  adhered  to.  On  every  hand  we  see  the 
evidence  in  the  lives  of  these  young  people  of  their  belief,  faith,  char- 
ity, and  purity. 


Sometime  ago  while  I  was  visiting  in  the  southern  part  of  the 
state  with  Sister  Wirthlin,  we  decided  to  remain  overnight  at  Bryce 
Canyon.  We  arrived  in  the  afternoon,  meeting  some  of  the  young 
people  who  were  employed  there.  They  came  to  our  cabin  and  held 
what  I  would  call  a  fireside  chat.  These  young  men  and  women  told 
us  of  ambitions  and  objectives  to  be  achieved  and  of  their  great  faith 
in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  remember  one  young  man 
who  told  us  that  he  come  to  Bryce  Canyon  with  the  hope  of  earning 
enough  money  to  pay  his  school  expenses  for  the  coming  year.  He 
was  promised  a  certain  salary,  but  later  the  manager  indicated  that 
the  salary  could  not  be  paid  in  the  amount  first  mentioned.  The 
young  man  was  deeply  worried,  knowing  that  the  income  for  the 
summer  would  not  be  adequate.  He  said  he  worried  about  it  for 
several  days  and  wondered  whether  or  not  he  should  seek  employ- 
ment elsewhere. 

"Finally,  one  day,"  he  declared,"  as  I  was  driving  out  among  the 
cedars  to  gather  firewood  for  the  lodge,  I  said  to  myself,  'Why  not  ask 
the  Lord  about  it?'  So  I  stopped  the  truck  and  walked  out  among  the 
cedars,  knelt  down,  and  talked  to  my  Heavenly  Father.  And  there 
came  to  my  heart  a  feeling  of  assurance  that  I  should  remain  at  Bryce 
Canyon  and  things  would  work  out.  A  few  days  later  the  manager 
came  to  me  and  said,  'We  have  decided  to  give  you  the  salary  prom- 
ised you  in  the  first  place.'  " 

You  couldn't  convince  that  young  man  that  the  Lord  hadn't  an- 
swered his  prayer.  He  believed  implicitly  in  God,  and  because  of 
that  great  faith  he  took  his  problem  to  the  Lord  and  found  the  solu- 
tion. 

The  next  morning  when  we  went  to  the  lodge  for  our  breakfast, 
I  noticed  on  the  table  the  name  of  the  waitress,  an  old  familiar  Latter- 
day  Saint  name.  When  the  young  lady  came  in,  I  asked  her  where 
she  lived,  and  she  answered,  "I  live  in  Bountiful." 

I  asked,  "I  suppose  you  are  a  member  of  this  so-called  Mormon 


Faith  of  Young  People 


Church?" 


She  replied,  "Yes,  I  am. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  19 


Then  I  asked,  "What  kind  of  church  is  it?" 

She  declared  rather  emphatically,  "It's  a  good  church." 

And  then  I  put  the  next  question  quite  strongly  and  asked  her 
if  she  thought  it  was  the  only  true  church.  In  a  very  positive  way  she 
gave  me  to  understand  that  it  was  the  true  church.  At  that  point 
Sister  Wirthlin  told  the  young  lady  who  I  was,  and  that  ended  it. 
But  the  thrill  of  the  whole  thing  was  that  this  young  woman,  talking 
to  a  stranger,  was  willing  to  bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  she  be- 
longs to  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Faith  of  Serviceman 

Some  four  weeks  ago  I  had  a  rather  interesting  and  inspiring  ex- 
perience. A  young  man  whom  I  have  known  since  he  was  a  boy  came 
into  my  office.  He  said,  "I'm  a  reserve  officer,  and  I  have  been  called 
into  the  army." 

He  had  been  married  only  about  four  or  five  years  and  has  two 
lovely  children,  and  I  sorrowfully  replied,  "Paul,  I'm  sorry,  in  a  way." 

He  said,  "Brother  Wirthlin,  don't  worry  about  me,  I  have  come 
here  this  morning  to  get  some  tracts  that  I  might  do  some  missionary 
work  among  my  companions  in  the  army;  and  furthermore,  I  have  a 
promise,  which  I  look  upon  as  a  divine  promise,  that  I  shall  live  to 
see  the  day  when  my  father,  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  will 
join  it.  I'm  so  impressed  with  that  promise,  I'm  not  worrying  about 
the  experiences  that  are  immediately  ahead  of  me."  Such  faith — so 
simple,  and  so  profound!  This  young  man  will  enjoy  the  blessings 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  because  of  his  sweet,  clean  life  and  his  faith 
in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  priesthood. 

We  often  hear  young  people  bear  their  testimonies  to  the  divin- 
ity of  this  great  work,  and  what  a  thrill  it  is;  although,  at  times,  there 
are  evidences  of  a  negative  attitude  on  the  part  of  older  people.  They 
say  these  young  people  cannot  stand  up  and  testify  that  they  know 
this  is  the  Church  of  God,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  his  Son,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet.  Brothers  and  sisters,  young 
people,  even  a  child  at  the  age  of  eight  who  has  been  baptized,  can 
stand  up  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  bear  sincere 
testimony  that  he  knows  the  Heavenly  Father  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
his  Son,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  chosen  instrument.  There 
is  no  question  about  that  in  my  mind. 

Day  of  Pentecost 

Go  back  to  the  days  of  Peter,  the  Apostle,  after  Christ  had 
left  the  disciples,  and  they  had  received  the  Holy  Ghost.  They 
stood  before  a  great  multitude  of  people  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost 
and  preached  to  them  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The 
throng  of  people  were  so  pricked  in  their  hearts  that  they  arose  as 
one  man  and  asked,  "...  Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?" 
Peter  answered  them  and  said, 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29  First  Day 

.  .  .  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that 
are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call.  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

Any  child  who  attains  the  right  age,  who  has  faith  and  repents 
of  his  sins  and  is  baptized  for  the  remission  of  sin  under  the  hands 
of  authorized  servants  of  God,  can  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  under  the  inspiration  of  that  sweet  spirit,  he  can  bear 
his  testimony.    Did  not  the  Christ  declare: 

But  when  the  Comforter  is  come,  whom  I  will  send  unto  you  from 
the  Father,  even  the  Spirit  of  truth,  which  proceedeth  from  the  Father, 
he  shall  testify  of  me.  (John  15:26.) 

Spirit  of  Testimony 

I  recall  a  friend  of  mine  who  had  a  great  sorrow  to  bear.  He 
had  sought  solace  in  many  places.  Finally,  one  fast  Sunday  he  said 
to  his  wife,  "Let  us  go  over  to  fast  meeting."  He  hadn't  been  too 
active  in  the  Church.  In  the  fast  meeting  he  saw  many  of  the  young 
people  bearing  their  testimonies.  The  spirit  of  testimony  took  hold 
of  him,  and  he  stood  up  and  bore  his  testimony.  That  same  afternoon 
he  asked  another  associate  of  mine  if  he  could  have  some  place  in 
the  activities  of  the  Church,  and  he  was  called  to  serve.  Today  he 
is  a  loyal,  devoted,  and  fruitful  servant  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Now,  what  about  the  young  men  who  are  being  called  into 
the  armed  forces  of  the  nation?  After  all,  we  use  this  axiom:  Old 
men  for  counsel  and  young  men  for  battle.  In  the  bloody  struggle 
of  war,  it  is  youth  who  suffer.  Their  blood  is  spilt;  their  lives  are 
sacrificed;  and  many  are  denied  the  blessings  of  having  a  companion 
and  rearing  a  family.  We  owe  much  to  these  young  men.  First,  we 
owe  them  encouragement.  We  owe  to  them  letters  in  a  constant 
stream  to  keep  them  encouraged,  to  keep  their  faith  built  up.  Then, 
if  death  should  come,  because  of  their  sweet,  clean  lives,  they  will 
regardless  of  what  happens  to  them  if  death  should  come,  because 
of  their  sweet,  clean  lives,  they  will  be  able  to  meet  the  great  Judge 
who  will  extend  his  hand  to  them  and  give  them  that  heavenly  salu- 
tation: "Well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 

Aaronic  Priesthood  Program 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  program  of  the  Church  is  most  vital.  It 
is  a  training  field  for  the  young  men  of  the  Church.  And  what  a 
grand  and  glorious  thing  it  is  to  know  that  a  boy  at  the  tender  age 
of  twelve  can  receive  divine  authority  from  on  high  and  become  a 
servant  of  God.  Whenever  I  think  of  these  twelve-year-old  boys, 
I  always  think  of  another  one  who  lived  nearly  two  thousand  years 
ago — the  boy  Savior  of  the  world,  Jesus  Christ.  At  the  age  of 
twelve  we  find  him  attending  the  Feast  of  the  Passover  with  his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  21 


parents  in  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  and  in  the  course  of  events  he 
found  his  way  to  the  temple.  There  he  was  discussing  the  problems 
of  the  day  with  the  great,  the  wise,  and  the  learned.  Later  his 
mother  missed  him,  and  in  looking  for  him,  found  him  in  the  temple. 
In  effect,  she  said  to  him,  "Do  you  not  know  that  you  have  caused 
your  father  and  me  a  good  deal  of  sorrow  and  grief?"  Then  he 
gave  her  that  memorable  answer,  "...  wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be 
about  my  Father's  business?"  (Luke  2:49.)  That  should  be  the 
slogan  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  in  which  every  boy  at  the  age 
of  twelve  commences  his  ministry  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  Aaronic  Priesthood  affords  opportunities 
that  young  boys  cannot  afford  to  miss,  if  they  will  take  advantage  of 
them;  just  as  Paul  said  to  Timothy, 

Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the  be- 
lievers, in  word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  puritv. 
(I  Timothy  4:12.) 

Auxiliary  Organizations 

Then,  too,  we  have  the  great  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church.  We  have  the  Sunday  School  which  provides  lessons  cov- 
ering the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  we  have  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  and  the  Young  Women's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association.  We  have  our  seminaries  and 
institutes.  We  have  our  great  welfare  program,  too,  which  should 
play  a  pertinent  part  in  training  our  youth  to  be  thrifty,  ambitious, 
and  willing  to  sustain  themselves  by  the  sweat  of  their  brows  and 
the  toil  of  their  hands.  The  Primary  Association  of  the  Church 
makes  a  great  contribution  in  the  spiritual,  vocational,  and  recrea- 
tional training  of  our  children.  It  is  the  Primary  that  takes  the 
child  at  a  tender  age  and  guides  his  footsteps  in  the  paths  of  prayer 
and  faith;  and  it  teaches  him  how  to  use  his  hands  effectively.  The 
Primary  Association  is  closely  related  to  the  young  men  who  be- 
come holders  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  as  it  provides  a  preparatory 
course  for  all  young  men  of  the  Church  who  anticipate  receiving 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  May  I  say,  emphatically,  the  Primary 
Association  has  been  one  of  the  great  factors  in  giving  young  men 
a  vision  of  their  responsibilities  in  the  future.  May  God  always 
bless  and  sustain  the  fine  sisters  who  have  been  and  who  are  carry- 
ing on  this  splendid  work. 

Boy  Scout  Program 

Another  great  and  very  important  project  of  which  little  is 
said  is  that  of  the  Boy  Scout  program.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  as 
the  vocational  and  recreational  program  of  the  Church  for  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  there  is  nothing  finer  than  scouting.  I  say  this 
because  I  have  three  sons,  two  of  them  are  Eagle  Scouts,  and  the 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

other  one  a  Life  Scout.  As  I  have  observed  their  work  in  scouting, 
to  me  it  has  been  almost  comparable  to  a  college  education.  Many 
times  there  are  those  of  us  who  feel  scouting  is  strictly  a  recreational 
program,  but  that  is  only  a  part  of  it.  We  are  faced  today  with 
a  big  problem  in  knowing  what  to  do  with  the  leisure  time  of  our 
boys,  especially  during  the  vacation  period.  The  scouting  program 
will  take  up  all  of  this  leisure  time,  provided  we  encourage  our  boys 
to  participate  in  it. 

About  a  year  ago  a  Scout  was  sent  to  me  for  an  oral  examina- 
tion covering  the  project  of  producing  beef.  I  asked  many  ques- 
tions of  the  scout  pertaining  to  the  production  of  beef,  and  I  was 
quite  surprised  when  he  answered  every  one  of  them  correctly. 
With  the  knowledge  he  has  accumulated  through  the  merit  badge 
project  in  scouting,  he  will  be  able  to  go  forward  in  the  beef  in- 
dustry on  his  own,  although  he  is  tender  in  years. 

There  are  many  other  projects  which  can  be  most  helpful  to 
young  men  in  working  out  their  future  vocations. 

As  a  father  of  three  sons,  and  all  of  them  Scouts,  if  I  were  to 
choose  someone  to  supervise  their  recreation,  I  would  choose  the 
scouters  of  my  own  ward,  because  I  know  they  would  be  in  good 
hands  and  nothing  would  happen  that  would  be  detrimental  to 
their  character. 

Where  we  have  the  right  kind  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  work,  we 
will  have  the  great  scouting  program  supplementing  it;  and  where 
there  is  good  scouting,  there  is  good  Aaronic  Priesthood  work.  I 
plead  with  you  to  support  the  Boy  Scou.ts. 

Missionaries 

I  haven't  forgotten  the  5800  young  men  and  young  women 
out  in  the  world,  meeting  people  far  beyond  them  in  age  and  ex- 
perience. With  the  sword  of  truth  in  their  hands  for  defense  and 
offense,  they  are  convincing  men  they  have  a  great  message,  and 
as  a  result  thousands  of  people  are  accepting  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  this  nation  and  all  over  the  world. 

Support  of  Youth 

So,  we  plead  for  your  support,  for  your  help  in  encouraging 
the  youth  of  the  Church  to  participate  in  the  great  Church  youth 
program,  with  the  aim  that  they  may  be  prepared  when  the  time 
comes  to  take  over  the  responsibilities  that  we  older  people  now 
have.  Returning  to  Paul's  admonition  to  Timothy,  "Let  no  man 
despise  thy  youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers,  in  word, 
in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity."  Impress 
every  young  man  with  his  responsibilities  and  obligations  in  the 
priesthood,  that  when  temptation  crosses  his  path,  he  may  remember 
the  answer  of  the  boy  Savior  in  the  temple  when  he  said,  "...  wist 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


23 


ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  business?"  This  I  humbly 
pray,  will  be  the  blessing  of  every  young  man  and  every  young 
woman  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  indeed  grateful  this  morning,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
for  the  counsel  which  we  have  received.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
counsel  we  have  received  which  has  come  from  the  President  whom 
we  sustain  as  a  prophet,  as  the  mouthpiece  of  God  to  his  children 
here  on  earth.  I  endorse  his  timely  counsel  with  respect  to  our 
conduct  in  the  coming  political  campaigns  and  the  keeping  of  our 
tempers.  I  am  reminded  of  a  story  that  was  told  of  Senator  Chauncey 
Depew  when  he  was  launching  into  a  campaign  for  the  Senate  of 
the  United  States.  His  opponent  came  to  him  and  said,  "Senator, 
let's  make  this  campaign  clean." 

The  Senator  replied,  "I  fully  agree.  If  you  will  promise  not  to  lie 
about  me,  I'll  promise  not  to  tell  the  truth  about  you."  How  clean 
the  campaign  was,  I  am  unable  to  say. 

Never  Lose  a  Friend 

When  I  was  a  youngster  employed  in  the  Senate  of  the  United 
States,  there  came  into  the  office  one  day  a  former  governor  of  this 
state.  While  we  were  visiting,  he  said,  "I'd  like  to  give  you  a 
little  advice." 

I  said,  "That's  fine,  I  appreciate  advice  from  one  of  your  ex- 
perience." 

He  said,  "Never  lose  a  friend  over  politics  or  religion." 

I  have  tried  to  keep  that  counsel  in  my  mind  all  my  life.  I 
was  in  politics  a  little  bit  at  one  time,  for  which  I  have  since  re- 
pented. I  was  successful  in  one  election.  I  was  defeated  in  an- 
other. But  I  am  very  thankful  that  I  can  say  tdday  that  I  still  have 
the  friendship  of  my  opponents.  I  cherish  their  friendship.  I  respect 
the  principles  for  which  they  stood,  and  I  am  sure  they  respect  me 
in  the  same  light. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  children  of  God,  we  are  Saints  of 
the  Most  High  God.  There  is  no  place  in  this  kingdom  upon  the 
earth  for  God's  children  to  make  enemies,  one  with  the  other,  both 
professing  to  be  members  of  the  Church,  over  politics  or  religion. 

Blessings  of  Gathering 

I  am  reminded  now  of  the  opening  prayer.  In  that  prayer  we 
thanked  God  that  he  had  sought  us  out  from  far  and  near  places 
to  gather  here.  How  thankful  we  should  be  that  we  have  been 
sought  out  to  gather  where  we  are.   And  as  I  stand  here  this  morn- 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Dag 

ing,  I  see  two  in  this  congregation  who  have  come  all  the  way  from 
New  Zealand,  two  good  Maori  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  come 
to  receive  the  blessings  in  the  temple  of  God.  These  are  the  only 
two  who  have  had  the  opportunity  to  come  from  New  Zealand  dur- 
ing the  past  thirteen  years.  There  are  thousands  of  us  living  in 
the  shadows  of  the  temples  of  God  upon  whom  there  is  no  financial 
burden  to  go  to  these  temples.  How  I  thrill  this  morning  when  I 
see  this  grand  couple  who  have  saved  and  saved  and  prayed  and 
prayed  that  they  might  one  day  come  to  the  temple  of  God  and 
receive  their  blessings.  They  have  come  eight  thousand  miles  to 
spend  a  few  days  with  us  and  to  return  back  home.  I  trust  that 
they  have  listened  to  the  admonition  which  has  been  given  all 
of  us  this  morning,  to  keep  the  covenants  which  we  have  made  with 
our  God,  to  remember  the  blessings  which  are  theirs  if  they  remain 
faithful  to  the  end. 

I  see  also  our  good  Hawaiian  sister,  Sister  Kauhini,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Oahu  Stake.  I  see  also  some  of 
our  Japanese  and  some  of  our  Indian  friends.  Yes,  I  thank  God 
that  we  have  been  sought  out  from  places  far  and  near  to  gather 
here.  After  this  conference  I  am  going  among  the  Indian  people  of 
the  Southwest  Indian  Mission.  Brothers  and  sisters,  they  are  our 
people.  The  salvation  of  these  people  rests  upon  us.  The  rewards 
to  which  they  are  entitled  must  come  through  us  and  the  service  we 
are  willing  to  render  to  them  and  for  them. 

Love  for  Native  Races 

I  love  these  native  races.  They  have  given  me  something  that 
I  could  have  received  from  no  other  source.  Even  though  some 
classify  them  as  heathen,  yet  I  have  never  seen  the  veil  between 
God  and  man  so  thin  as  I  have  seen  among  these  native  races.  God 
has  restored  his  gospel  for  all  people.  We  have  had  eleven  thou- 
sand missionaries  in  the  field  since  1946,  going  to  all  parts  of  the 
world  where  they  are  permitted  to  go.  As  has  been  mentioned, 
they  are  young,  unexperienced  men  and  women.  But  whether  in 
New  Zealand  or  in  Hawaii  or  among  the  Indians  of  this  nation  or 
wherever  they  may  go  in  the  world,  God  magnifies  his  priesthood, 
and  his  priesthood  speaks  as  having  authority,  and  the  people  give 
listening  ears. 

Sometimes  they  are  warned,  the  people  of  the  world,  to  be- 
ware of  these  Mormon  missionaries;  and  they  are  referred  to  the 
prophecy  that  one  day  false  prophets  would  come  among  them. 
God  never  fulfils  his  purposes  through  false  prophets.  It  is  only 
through  true  prophets  that  he  fulfils  his  purposes  among  men.  It  is 
a  matter  of  historical  record  that  God  said  he  would  scatter  Israel. 
It  is  a  matter  of  historical  record  that  he  said  he  would  gather  Israel 
from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth.  And  this  congregation  today  is 
a  witness  to  the  world  that  it  is  a  matter  of  historical  fact  that 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


25 


through  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  God  is 
gathering  Israel. 

Prophecies  Fulfilled 

God  said  that  in  the  last  days  the  house  of  the  Lord  would  be 
established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  exalted  above  the  hills, 
and  all  nations  would  flow  unto  it.  It  is  a  matter  of  historical  record 
that  he  uttered  that  prophecy  through  one  of  his  prophets.  It  is  a 
matter  of  historical  fact  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  has 
been  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  all  nations  have 
been  flowing  into  it.  It  is  a  matter  of  historical  fact  that  the  stick 
of  Judah  has  been  written  and  is  in  the  hand  of  God  as  one  of  his 
mediums  of  bringing  salvation  to  his  children.  It  is  a  matter  of 
historical  record  that  there  was  also  to  be  a  stick  of  Joseph,  and 
that  these  two  should  be  one  in  the  hand  of  God.  It  is  a  matter 
of  historical  fact  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  now  distributing  this  record,  this  stick  of  Joseph  along  with  this 
stick  of  Judah  to  the  thousands  and  thousands  of  those  to  whom  the 
missionaries  are  going  with  their  testimonies  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel.  It  is  a  matter  of  historical  record  that  God  was  to 
send  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful 
day  of  the  Lord  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers  and 
the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  lest  the  earth  be  smitten 
with  a  curse.  It  is  a  matter  of  historical  fact  that  in  this  dispensa- 
tion Elijah  has  returned  to  the  earth,  for  the  hearts  of  the  children 
have  been  turned  to  their  parents  and  those  of  the  parents  to  the 
children.  We  know  to  whom  that  prophet  came.  It  is  a  matter 
of  historical  record  that  God  said  through  his  Apostle  that  another 
angel  would  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlast- 
ing gospel  to  preach  to  those  who  dwell  upon  the  earth.  To  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  it  is  a  matter  of  histori- 
cal fact  that  that  angel  has  flown  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  and 
the  everlasting  gospel  has  been  restored  to  the  earth.  It  was  said 
by  the  Master  that  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  should  be  preached 
as  a  witness  to  all  nations,  and  then  should  the  end  come.  It  is  a 
matter  of  historical  record  and  fact  that  there  are  right  now  5,840 
missionaries  representing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  out  in  the  world,  bearing  witness  to  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

God's  Kingdom  Established 

Brothers  and  sisters,  what  more  do  we  need  other  than  the 
testimony  of  these  historical  facts  to  confirm  the  fulfilment  of  God's 
prophecies  as  prophesied  by  his  servants?  And  we  know  as  ex- 
plained by  Daniel  that  God  would  set  up  a  kingdom  in  the  last 
days.  We  know  the  story  of  the  image  which  was  seen  by  Nebu- 
chadnezzar in  a  dream  and  the  interpretation  by  Daniel  under  the 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Dag 

power  of  God  of  that  dream.  We  know  that  those  kingdoms  and 
empires  symbolized  by  the  head,  shoulders,  and  breast,  the  belly 
and  thighs,  and  the  legs,  all  passed  away,  and  that  during  the  ex- 
istence of  none  of  those  kingdoms  did  God  set  up  his  kingdom  never 
to  be  destroyed.  But  in  the  days  of  the  kings  symbolized  by  the 
toes,  God  did  establish  his  kingdom  in  the  earth,  and  it  will  never 
be  destroyed. 

Loyalty  to  Priesthood 

The  priesthood  of  God  is  among  men.  Let  us  who  hold  it  be 
faithful  and  loyal  to  this  priesthood.  We  represent  God,  brethren. 
God  must  work  through  you  to  fulfil  his  prophecies;  therefore,  prize 
your  priesthood,  be  loyal  to  it,  be  humble  before  God,  and  you  will 
accomplish  his  purposes  in  the  building  up  of  his  kingdom,  and  this 
work  shall  go  forth  into  all  the  world  and  will  reach  out  and  will 
touch  those  who  are  to  be  brought  out,  two  of  a  family  and  one  of  a 
city,  and  gathered  to  Zion. 

I  repeat,  I  thank  God  that  we  have  been  sought  out  from  far 
and  distant  places  to  gather  here.  I  thank  God  for  the  young 
missionaries  who  many  years  ago  found  my  ancestors  on  the  Isle 
of  Man  and  brought  them  out,  and  they  came  in  poverty  and  found 
their  way  to  Nauvoo.  They  met  the  Prophet.  One  of  these  young 
lads  was  almost  to  be  attacked  and  destroyed  by  a  mob  as  he  was 
lifting  water  from  the  Mississippi  River,  but  his  life  was  spared  as 
it  had  been  prophesied  it  would  be.  Yes,  I  thank  God  with  all  my 
heart  that  we  have  been  gathered  out  from  the  world,  and  I  thank 
God  that  these  people,  these  islanders,  and  these  Indians  are  re- 
sponding to  this  message,  and  that  once  in  a  great  while,  these  peo- 
ple in  their  poverty  find  a  way  to  get  to  Zion  and  go  into  the  temple 
of  God. 

Thanksgiving  for  Natives 

I  offer  up  my  thanksgiving  to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  these 
natives  who  are  here  today.  My,  how  much  I  owe  to  them!  I 
remember  during  the  war  years  that  this  fine  couple  were  both  in 
the  military  service  of  their  country.  And  after  the  service  was 
completed,  as  we  had  no  missionaries  in  New  Zealand,  they  both 
responded  to  mission  calls.  One  day  as  I  was  going  to  visit  them 
in  the  city  of  Rotorua,  I  discovered  that  they  had  built  a  beautiful 
new  house.  As  I  went  into  that  home,  I  noticed  that  over  the  door 
there  was  a  beautiful  little  printed  sign  with  the  name  on  it,  Matthew 
Cowley.  That  was  to  be  my  house  whenever  I  was  visiting  in 
that  area  of  the  mission.  And  when  my  family  and  I  left  New 
Zealand,  it  wasn't  enough  that  we  had  lived  in  their  home,  they 
took  the  blankets  from  the  beds  on  which  we  had  slept  and  in- 
sisted that  we  bring  those  blankets  back  home  with  us. 

Are  these  people,  brothers  and  sisters,  these  islanders  of  the  sea, 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  27 


these  Indians  of  the  reservation,  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?    Yes,  a  thousand  times,  yes! 

God  bless  us  all.  May  we  be  faithful  and  devoted  to  this 
cause,  obedient  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  sustaining  one  an- 
other in  our  respective  positions,  honoring  each  other  in  our  homes, 
preserving  the  integrity  of  our  families,  the  integrity  of  our  priest- 
hood quorums,  and  of  all  the  auxiliaries,  that  God  may  continue  to 
be  and  abide  with  us.  This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  been  speaking  of  a  good  many  things  this  morning. 
I  have  been  looking  around,  and  another  one  who  has  passed 
away  since  our  last  conference  is  Elder  Frank  Evans,  one  of  the 
most  faithful  and  devoted  workers  the  Church  has  had,  and  his 
wife  is  equally  faithful  and  helpful  in  doing  things  for  the  Church. 
I  can  hardly  refer  to  the  passing  of  these  men  and  women  who 
have  worked  so  close  to  us  in  the  office.  I  hope  and  pray  that 
we  will  all  remember  these  good  women  who  are  left  when  their 
husbands  go,  and  not  forget  them. 

Another  thing  while  I  am  on  my  feet,  I  want  to  call  attention 
to  the  fact  that  several  references  have  been  made  to  our  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  order  to  obtain  our  blessings.  1 
would  like  to  refer  to  the  130th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants with  reference  to  that  principle: 

"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life, 
it  will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection.  And  if  a  person  gains  more 
knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through  his  diligence  and 
obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in  the 
world  to  come. 

"There  is  a  law,  [this  is  what  I  particularly  want  to  emphasize] 
irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience 
to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

Now  brethren,  we  have  had  our  attention  called  to  the  fact 
that  we  have  many  blessings  that  other  people  do  not  enjoy.  We 
are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  our  blessings  will 
be  the  result  of  our  obedience  to  the  laws  governing  those  blessings, 
so  let  us  continue  to  set  an  example  among  our  fellows. 

Th«  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing  "My  Soul 
Is  Athirst  For  God." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Arvell  L.  Child 
of  the  Nyssa  Stake,  Oregon,  after  which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


other  stations  named  at  the  beginning  of  the  session.  The  Confer- 
ence will  also  be  broadcast  over  the  television  station  of  KSL, 
channel  five. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dis- 
missal of  the  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Combined  Chorus  of  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cache  Region  and 
Salt  Lake  City  Stakes,  with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  con- 
ducting, and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

Haven't  we  had  a  good  time?  Hasn't  the  Lord  kept  his  part 
of  the  agreement,  that  when  a  few  meet  together  in  his  name  he  will 
be  there  and  that  to  bless  them?   He  has  been  here. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing  to  us,  after  which  Brother 
Child  will  offer  the  benediction. 


Singing  by  the  choir  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  For  God." 
Closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Arvell  L.  Child  of 
the  Nyssa  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 


Friday,  September  29. 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided,  and  at  President 
Smith's  request,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  is  present  and  presiding  and 
has  asked  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  one  of  his  counselors,  to  conduct 
the  services.  • 

These  services,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  Conference,  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  (60  North 
Main)  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 


FIRST  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  29 


This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  five. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Combined 
Chorus  of  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cache  Region  and  Salt  Lake 
City  Stakes,  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting  and 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Moth- 
ers rendering:  "Hear  My  Prayer." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  G.  Carlos 
Smith,  of  the  Big  Cottonwood  Stake,  Utah. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Hear  My  Prayer." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  G.  Carlos  Smith, 
of  the  Big  Cottonwood  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  then  sang  "How  Lovely 
Are  Thy  Dwellings." 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Our  testimonies  have  indeed  been  strengthened  so  far  in  this 
conference,  and  I  share  with  you  in  gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  his  goodness,  for  the  manifestations  of  his  Spirit,  and  above  all 
I  am  grateful  for  the  Church,  for  the  testimony  of  its  truth,  and 
for  the  fellowship  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

Mormon  Church  a  Challenge 

Some  weeks  ago  I  was  handed  a  clipping  taken  from  a  Los 
Angeles  paper  in  which  appeared  a  report  of  some  remarks  made 
over  the  radio  by  one  of  the  distinguished  clergymen  of  Los  Angeles. 
His  broadcasts  are  in  the  nature  of  a  questionnaire,  and  one  of 
the  questions  submitted  to  him  was  this:  "There  are  said  to  be 
more  Latter-day  Saints  in  Los  Angeles  and  its  environs  than  there 
are  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Do  you  not  regard  this  as  a  threat?"  Dr. 
Fifleld,  in  answering  the  question  said, 

No,  I  do  not  consider  this  a  threat.  I  consider  it  a  challenge.  The 
Protestant  churches,  I  think,  have  much  to  learn  from  the  Mormon  Church. 
There  is  no  church  in  the  world  that  does  so  much  for  its  young  people 
as  the  Mormon  Church.  I  personally  know  most  of  the  dignitaries  of  the 
Mormon  Church.  I  visit  in  Salt  Lake  City  frequently,  and  I  know  of  no 
finer  or  more  high-minded  people  anywhere.  They  live  the  cleanest  and 
most  temperate  lives  of  any  religious  sect  that  I  know  of.  Their  people 
support  their  church  generously  with  their  tithing  system,  and  the  church 
in  turn  supports  its  people  and  provides  a  way  for  their  social  care  so  that 
none  of  them  is  on  any  public  relief  roll. 


As  I  read  that,  I  wished  that  were  true.  The  possibilities  of  it 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29    .  Fust  Day 

are  like  the  possibilities  in  the  Church  for  all  things  that  are  in 
harmony  with  the  mind  and  will  of  God.  But  sometimes  some  of 
us  do  not  always  conform.  If  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  conformed 
to  the  counsels  of  the  Church,  this  would  be  verily  true.  But  we  do 
have  within  the  Church  this  possibility.  It  isn't  a  dream.  It's  a 
reality,  if  we  will.    And  then  he  goes  on. 

Of  course,  I  do  not  accept  the  story  of  the  finding  of  the  golden 
plates  and  the  translation  thereof  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the  manner 
related,  but  I  do  think  that  as  a  religious  organization,  holding  its  people 
to  a  high  level  of  culture  and  education  and  social  progress,  the  Mormon 
Church  has  no  parallel  in  our  time.  No,  I  do  not  think  the  Mormon 
Church  is  any  threat  to  other  churches.  I  think  it  is  a  challenge  to  them 
to  do  better  work  with  their  members  and  their  converts. 

President  Clark's  Book 

As  I  read  that,  I  recalled  a  very  constructive  criticism  of  Presi- 
dent Clark's  book,  On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life. 
A  brief  review  of  that  book  appeared  in  the  Unitarian  Christian 
Register  in  the  April  number  of  this  year.  This  is  a  magazine  that  is 
124  years  old,  a  magazine  that  carries  each  month  criticisms  and  re- 
views of  the  leading  theological,  religious,  and  philosophical  books 
as  they  are  published  from  time  to  time.  Outstanding  works  they 
are,  and  it  was  certainly  in  keeping  with  the  dignity  and  the  schol- 
arly atmosphere  of  Brother  Clark's  book  to  have  this  criticism  appear 
in  this  magazine.  In  the  final  statement,  and  that  is  the  point  I 
wish  to  emphasize,  the  critic  says  this:  "It  is  an  excellent  introduc- 
tion to  the  contemporary  position  of  one  of  the  most  influential  re- 
ligions on  the  American  scene."  Now,  of  course,  we  all  like  to  hear 
nice  things  about  our  Church,  but  the  thing  that  we  are  interested  in, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  is  this:  Are  we  worthy  of  this  trust — this 
pedestal  on  which  we  are  placed — as  set  forth  in  these  statements? 
That  is  the  challenge  for  us.  Are  we  meeting  this  challenge?  Do 
we  in  very  deed  in  our  living  represent  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God?  On  one  occasion  the  Savior,  as  he  was  speaking  to  his  dis- 
ciples and  telling  them  of  the  events  that  should  come  to  pass  in  the 
last  day,  after  making  certain  predictions  and  promises,  said,  "And 
this  gospel  of  the  kingdom,"  and  that  was  quoted  here  this  morning, 
"shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  the  nations; 
and  then  shall  the  end  come."  (Matt.  24:14.) 

Witnesses  of  the  Truth 

On  the  Sabbath  day,  as  we  partake  of  the  sacrament,  we  witness 
unto  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  we  will  keep  his  commandments, 
that  we  will  live  in  harmony  with  his  will.  And  so  I  repeat,  we  have 
this  challenge.  Are  we  witnessing  the  truth  to  the  world?  We  can 
only  witness  it  as  we  live  in  harmony  with  those  concepts  that  have 
been  revealed  by  our  Heavenly  Father.  Lip  service  is  not  the  service 
that  is  required  in  this  Church.   It  is  a  constant  daily  service  to  our 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


31 


fellow  men.  I  alluded  to  it  a  minute  ago  with  reference  to  people 
being  on  relief.  We  have  a  challenge  there  to  see  to  it  that  those  of 
our  people  who  are  in  distress  shall  not  be  neglected  but  shall  be 
provided  for,  and  if  we  fail  to  measure  up  to  that  challenge,  and  that 
is  the  reason  why  we  have  people  on  public  relief,  we  are  failing 
in  our  responsibilities  as  leaders  and  members  of  the  Church.  The 
Lord  has  pointed  the  way.  We  should  walk  therein.  We  know  the 
way,  but  it  is  in  our  neglect  and  in  our  failure  to  live  up  to  that 
which  we  know  to  be  true,  that  we  fail  to  witness  that  we  are  keep- 
ing his  commandments,  that  we  are  a  witness  of  the  truth.  This  ap- 
plies not  only  in  this  but  in  other  walks  of  life  also.  We  are  told  in 
James  1:27, 

Pure  religion  and  undeflled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this,  to  visit 
the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself  unspotted 
from  the  world. 

Constant  Service  Required 

In  our  community  recently,  we  had  a  very  serious  tragedy.  One 
of  the  young  men  of  our  city,  a  very  promising  young  man,  met  with 
a  tragic  death.  The  community  responded  in  love  and  sympathy 
to  the  family;  and  when  the  funeral  service  was  held,  it  proved  to 
be  one  of  the  largest  attended  in  a  long  time.  One  couldn't  help 
feeling  the  love  and  the  sympathy  there  manifested.  But  the  next 
day,  then  what?  And  the  days  to  follow.  These  are  the  things  that 
should  give  us  concern.  It  isn't  just  a  spasmodic  move  or  a  ges- 
ture, but  it's  a  constant  service  that  is  required  of  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  we  do,  in  our  various  walks  of  life.  Therein  our  religion 
can  be  exemplified  as  we  each  day  experience  problems  such  as  this. 

Now,  I  do  not  regard  this  as  difficult.  I  believe  we  can  do  it. 
I  believe  the  Lord  is  cognizant  of  our  weaknesses  sufficiently  to 
overlook  them,  and  to  make  it  possible,  in  spite  of  those  weaknesses, 
for  us  to  carry  out  to  the  world  that  we  do  have  a  living,  vital  reli- 
gion, that  we  have  something  that  the  people  can  live  and  exemplify 
in  their  lives.  Otherwise  the  gospel  would  not  mean  to  us  what  it 
does.  I  repeat  again,  it  isn't  a  lip  service.  It  is  one  that  presents  a 
constant  challenge  of  daily  labor,  laboring  for  good,  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  truth,  for  the  amelioration  of  suffering.  We'll  never 
have  peace  in  the  world  in  any  other  way.  It  will  come  only  if  we 
translate  into  our  lives  these  divine  concepts  and  these  truths. 

I  pray,  that  the  Lord  will  give  us  strength  and  power  to  do  this, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  thank  him  for  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  wish  I  had  the 
power  and  the  ability  to  make  that  expression  of  appreciation  more 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Dag 

real,  that  it  might  be  not  only  more  helpful  to  me  but  also  to  those 
with  whom  I  associate. 

Much  Given  and  Expected 

Much  has  been  given  to  us.  Much  is  expected  of  us.  I  sincerely 
feel  that  there  never  was  a  time  when  greater  opportunities  faced  our 
Church.  I  know  that  every  year,  every  score  of  years,  brings  to 
that  group  and  that  generation  like  feelings,  but  truly  great  things 
are  now  being  wrought  in  the  world,  and  great  opportunities  now 
face  us.  Nations  fear  each  other.  There  is  much  that  is  being 
done,  but  we  have  a  task  that  challenges  truly  the  best  that  is 
within  us,  me  in  my  home,  you  in  yours,  all  of  us  wherever  we  may 
be. 

These  lines  from  John: 

He  that  hath  received  his  testimony  has  set  to  his  seal  that  God  is  true. 
(John  3:33.) 

Baptism  of  Karl  G.  Maeser 

I  want  to  refer  to  the  baptism  of  Karl  G.  Maeser,  one  of  the 
great  spirits  of  our  Church,  one  of  the  great  leaders  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  Just  after  his  baptism  in  Germany,  he  said 
these  words: 

On  coming  out  of  the  water,  I  lifted  both  my  hands  to  heaven  and 
said,  "Father,  if  what  I  have  done  just  now  is  pleasing  unto  thee,  give 
me  a  testimony,  and  whatever  thou  shouldst  require  of  my  hands,  I  shall 
do,  even  to  the  laying  down  of  my  life  for  this  cause."  (The  Improve* 
ment  Era  3:25.) 

Soon  after  this  covenant  with  the  Lord,  he  and  President 
Franklin  D.  Richards  of  the  European  Mission  received  the  answer 
to  this  promise  to  the  Lord,  for  while  neither  one  of  them  could 
speak  the  language  of  the  other,  that  is,  Brother  Richards  could 
not  speak  German,  Karl  G.  Maeser  could  not  understand  English, 
yet  the  Lord  gave  them  the  gift  of  tongues  and  of  understanding. 
The  promise  was  fulfilled  at  once.  You  know,  hundreds  of  you 
in  this  audience  today,  that  the  Lord  continued  his  blessings  with 
Karl  G.  Maeser,  for  numbered  among  his  pupils  were  George  Suther- 
land of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States,  Reed  Smoot  of 
the  United  States  Senate,  William  H.  King  of  the  United  States 
Senate,  and  many,  many  others.  I  feel  in  like  fashion  we  have  also 
in  our  hearts  with  all  good  intent  made  a  like  promise  to  the  Lord. 
And  again  I  repeat,  this  is  our  opportunity  to  prove  to  the  Lord  that 
promise. 

Glory  of  the  Gospel 

At  one  of  our  recent  conferences  in  one  of  the  stakes,  we  asked 
a  young  lady  to  tell  of  her  experience  at  a  national  convention.  She 
had  received  lovely  honors.    She  told  the  story  in  some  detail  of 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


33 


what  had  happened  at  the  convention,  but  then  as  the  detail  of  it 
got  wearisome  to  her,  she  took  hold  of  the  stand  and  seemed  to 
rise  several  inches  higher  as  she  said,  "I  want  to  bear  my  testimony. 
That  is  what  is  on  my  heart."  Then  this  youth  in  all  her  glory 
expressed  what  her  testimony  meant  to  her. 

Years  have  been  somewhat  many  in  my  life.  I'm  easily  up  to 
the  top  of  the  crest,  but  I  challenge  myself  with  you,  the  great 
majority  of  this  audience,  if  we  do  not  take  the  opportunity  that  is 
ours  to  serve  him  and  courageously  do  his  will,  he  will  bring  forward 
a  generation  that  will  keep  his  commandments  and  prove  the  glory 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Spirit  of  American  Youth 

I  listened  to  a  talented  pressman  a  few  days  ago  who  had  just 
returned  from  Korea.  He  said  the  question  was  often  asked  of  the 
soldiers  up  in  the  front  lines  what  they  were  fighting  for.  He  told 
only  one  simple  incident.  He  said  they  know.  Down  the  highway 
when  thousands  of  Koreans  were  evacuating  a  city,  there  came  a 
young  fellow  in  a  jeep.  In  the  crowd  that  was  hurrying  on  in  con- 
fusion was  an  old  lady  bent  with  age,  a  large  bundle  on  her  back. 
The  jeep  stopped,  the  GI  boy  threw  the  bundle  in,  then  lifted  the 
old  lady  into  the  seat.  Down  the  road  they  went  to  safety.  Well, 
the  pressman  made  quite  a  bit  of  that  simple  incident,  and  I  believe 
that  I  caught  the  spirit  of  it.  Surely  the  American  youth  know  what 
they  are  fighting  for.  God  bless  them  with  courage  when  they  re- 
turn home,  that  they  will  take  their  place  and  do  their  best.  May 
the  destiny  that  is  theirs  to  have  and  enjoy  be  with  them. 

Service  of  Missionaries 

A  like  spirit  has  gone  out  with  5800  young  men  and  women  in- 
to different  parts  of  the  world.  One  simple,  yet  to  me  a  glorious,  ex- 
perience was  enjoyed  last  month  in  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 
As  is  our  custom,  we  meet  with  all  the  missionaries  as  we  go  through 
a  mission.  Their  testimonies  are  truly  inspiring.  We  are  thrilled  as 
we  listen  to  them.  I  seldom  leave  a  meeting  but  what  I  have  to  hold 
back  my  tears  of  pride  and  joy  for  the  youth  of  this  Church.  I  re- 
ceived a  lovely  reflection  of  their  service  in  one  experience.  A  brother 
came  to  me  after  the  dedication  of  one  of  the  little  chapels  in  the 
mission  and  said,  "Brother  Kirkham,  I  have  been  in  the  Church  now 
for  about  nineteen  years,  and  I  am  extremely  grateful  for  what  God 
has  given  us.  The  light  and  the  truth  of  the  gospel  has  truly  en- 
riched my  life.    Let  me  tell  you  how  it  happened." 

He  said:  "I  had  a  young  missionary  come  to  my  home.  I  used 
to  drink  a  cocktail  occasionally.  I  smoked  freely;  but  the  young  chap, 
clean,  sweet  in  his  nature,  and  in  his  appearance  so  delightful,  came 
to  our  place  and  told  us  that  he  had  something  for  us.  I  called  Mother 
in,  and  we  sat  and  listened.    This  continued  for  several  evenings, 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

until  one  night  when  we  were  quite  free  in  our  conversation  and  felt 
we  knew  each  other  quite  well,  I  took  the  liberty  of  rolling  a  cigaret. 
And  the  young  man  said:  'I  suppose  it's  time  that  I  told  you  about 
another  great  principle  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.'  He  said,  'I  want  to 
read  you  what  we  call  the  Word  of  Wisdom,'  and  he  started  to 
read  to  me.  I  had  taken  the  cigaret  out  of  my  mouth  and,  as  this 
young  chap  read  this  Word  of  Wisdom,  something  happened  to  me. 
I  found  myself  trying  to  crush  that  thing  in  my  fingers.  I  felt  the 
fire  once  but  held  my  nerve  and  kept  crushing  it,  and  I  said,  as  now  I 
say  to  you,  Brother  Kirkham,  he  spoke  the  truth.  This  boy  brought 
me  a  message  from  God  and  cleared  up  my  life." 

Accept  Opportunties 

Well,  these  opportunities  are  also  ours.  Just  over  the  fence  from 
where  we  live  is  someone  waiting  to  hear  us  speak  the  word.  Con- 
sider the  way  we  accept  our  opportunities  in  citizenship.  Yes,  I  ap- 
peal to  every  Latter-day  Saint:  Vote — it's  one  of  the  high  privileges 
of  your  American  citizenship.  Bear  your  testimony  every  opportunity 
that  comes  to  you.  "Stand  up  and  be  counted  with  the  Lord." 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  that  these  great  hours  may  to  us  be 
great  realities  and  opportunities.  May  it  be  said  of  us,  "Much  was 
given  to  you;  much  was  expected;  and  you  did  your  part."  God  bless 
us  and  be  with  us  that  we  may  make  of  our  glorious  religion  a  reality. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  confess,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  call  to  occupy  this 
position  this  afternoon  is  somewhat  unexpected.  I  am  to  give  the 
Church  of  the  Air  sermon  next  Sunday  morning.  It  was  intimated 
that  because  of  that  appointment  I  would  not  be  asked  to  speak  from 
this  stand.  So  I  have  no  special  message  in  my  heart.  I  suppose  I'll 
have  to  depend  upon  the  Lord.  That  is  good  practice  for  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  am  always  happy  to  bear  my  testimony  to  my  brethren  and 
sisters  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  rejoice  in 
it;  I  know  it  to  be  true.  The  truth  of  it  has  lightened  my  life  and  has 
given  happiness  to  me  and  to  my  family.  That  I  can  say  always  to 
my  brethren  and  my  sisters. 

Year  of  Anniversaries 

This  has  been  a  year  of  anniversaries.  A  short  time  ago,  with- 
in the  last  few  weeks,  the  President  of  the  Church  went  to  Ha- 
waii to  celebrate  the  coming  of  the  gospel  to  those  islands  one  hun- 
dred years  ago.  You  have  read  of  what  happened  there.  He  men- 
tioned it  briefly  himself  this  morning  in  his  address. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


35 


It  is  also  a  hundred  years  ago  since  the  gospel  was  brought  to 
the  foreign-speaking  lands  of  Europe.  Up  to  that  time  we  had  only 
once  attempted  to  preach  the  gospel  in  foreign  tongues,  namely  in 
the  South  Sea  Islands.  But  a  hundred  years  ago  the  missionaries  sent 
out  by  the  First  Presidency  of  that  day  entered  the  Scandinavian 
and  other  countries  of  Europe  and  bore  witness  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  They  made  notable  progress 
at  that  time,  a  progress  which  has  resulted  in  a  large  influx  of  men 
and  women,  faithful  men  and  women,  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains 
here. 

Scandinavian  Celebration 

It  was  my  privilege  to  be  sent  to  Scandinavia  a  few  months  ago 
to  take  part  in  the  celebration  which  the  Saints  of  those  countries 
were  holding  and  enjoying,  because  of  the  great  anniversary.  I 
visited  the  three  Scandinavian  countries.  I  was  given  the  privilege 
primarily,  I  suppose,  because  I  am  able  to  speak  a  little  of  the  tongues 
of  those  countries.  I  visited  Denmark,  Sweden,  and  Norway,  in  ad- 
dition to  stopping  briefly  in  England.  I  came  back  feeling  thrilled 
with  the  manner  in  which  the  gospel  had  developed  and  spread  from 
the  humble  beginnings  of  a  hundred  years  ago  in  those  countries. 
You  know,  of  course,  that  here  in  these  valleys,  among  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion,  the  blood  of  those  countries  through  intermar- 
riage has  spread  until  a  large  proportion  of  our  people  here  carry 
some  of  that  blood. 

The  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Scandinavian  countries  had 
planned  large  celebrations.  I  was  able  to  attend  fully  the  ones  in 
Stockholm,  Sweden,  and  in  Oslo,  Norway.  They  were  carefully  laid 
out  after  the  pattern  that  had  been  planned  for  our  celebration  here 
at  home  and  were  splendidly  rendered,  fully  as  well  as  the  celebration 
here  at  home.  I  missed  the  beginning  of  the  celebration  in  Denmark 
because  of  my  hurried  call  and  trip,  but  later  on  I  met  with  the  Danes 
and  enjoyed  their  company  and  partook  of  their  spirit  and  learned 
of  the  excellence  of  their  celebration. 

Gospel  Changes  Men 

It  was  interesting  to  me  to  note  how  the  gospel  changes  the  very 
nature  of  men  and  women,  and  how  faithful  and  devoted  men  and 
women  may  become  to  the  cause  of  truth  once  it  sinks  into  their 
hearts. 

Norway  is  a  long  country,  nearly  a  thousand  miles  long.  Up  in 
the  icy  north,  we  have  two  or  three  branches,  one  very  recently  es- 
tablished, and  I  was  pleased  to  find  in  Oslo,  which  is  nearly  at  the 
south  end  of  the  country,  people  who  had  come  from  the  far  north 
to  celebrate  and  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  coming  of  the  gospel  to 
their  land.  The  same  happened  in  Sweden;  also  in  Denmark,  which 
is  a  small  country.  All  had  a  very  large  representation  of  their 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29  First  Dag 

Church  members  in  attendance  at  the  celebrations.  There  was  a 
spirit  of  faith  and  devotion  like  that  we  have  here  today.  Many  peo- 
ple had  traveled  hundreds  of  miles  to  sit  by  one  another  in  meetings 
like  this  and  to  listen  to  discourses  on  the  simple  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

It  was  interesting  to  note,  also,  how  men  grow  and  develop 
under  the  influence  of  the  gospel  spirit.  Let  a  very  humble  man  be 
touched  by  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  he  becomes 
transformed.  He  is  no  more  the  same  man,  no  longer  the  same  per- 
son. He  has  changed  completely.  I  am  reminded  of  the  statement 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at  one  time,  when  talking  about  the 
children  of  Abraham;  he  said  that  any  person  who  accepts  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  becomes  of  the  seed  of  Abraham.  A  subtle  change 
occurs  in  the  very  physical  system  of  the  man,  which  makes  him  in- 
deed one  who  belongs  to  the  family  of  Abraham,  the  family  of  the 
faithful.  This  notable  change  I  observed  a  good  many  times  on  this 
trip  to  Scandinavia  this  summer,  that  men  are  transformed  for  the 
better,  their  powers  multiplied,  their  vision  increased,  their  under- 
standing and  comprehension  brought  out  in  new  forms  so  much  more 
vigorously  because  of  the  gospel  which  they  have  received,  because 
of  the  truths  of  the  gospel.  I  am  happy  to  bear  this  record  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  at  this  conference. 

Greetings  From  European  Saints 

I  am  very  happy  also  to  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  people, 
our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  covenant,  of  the  faraway  missions  in 
Europe.  They  send  their  greetings  to  you  and  their  blessings  also, 
and  their  blessings  are  quite  worth  while  for  they  come  from  com- 
mon sources.  They  love  you,  they  watch  you;  they  follow  you;  they 
try  to  emulate  and  to  imitate  that  which  you  do  here. 

Meeting  in  Oslo 

Some  years  ago,  I  have  forgotten  just  how  many,  I  had  the  priv- 
ilege to  go  to  Oslo,  the  capital  of  Norway,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  and  Elder  Reed  Smoot.  The  three  of  us  came  into  the  city 
rather  late  in  the  afternoon.  I  think  two  of  us  at  least  were  unan- 
nounced. Perhaps  Brother  McKay  was  announced,  the  president 
then  of  the  European  Mission,  I  am  not  sure  about  that.  But  we  made 
our  way  at  once  to  the  meeting  place  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
shall  never  forget  that  meeting.  We  were  not  expected  by  the  mem- 
bers present.  The  meeting  was  composed  of  the  people,  the  men  and 
women,  who  had  been  called  to  labor  as  missionaries  in  the  city  of 
Oslo.  It  was  a  report  meeting.  One  after  another  the  people,  young 
and  old,  got  up  and  gave  a  report  of  what  they  had  done.  I  recall 
one  elderly  lady  who  said  that  she  hesitated  to  make  her  report,  for 
it  was  such  a  poor  report.  She  had  only  had  time  during  the  last 
month  to  bring  the  gospel  to  two  hundred  different  homes.  I  thrilled 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


37 


as  I  thought  of  the  faith  of  that  woman,  the  strength  of  her  faith; 
and  how  many  of  us  fail  to  appreciate  what  we  have  received  as  she 
did  appreciate  it.  Many  go  by  day  after  day,  having  received  the 
great  gift  of  the  eternal  goSpel,  the  greatest  of  all  gifts,  but  forgetting 
to  pay  back  to  the  Lord  as  he  would  like  us  to  do  a  part  of  our  time 
and  strength  and  power  to  assist  in  the  advancement  of  the  great 
kingdom  of  God  here  upon  this  earth.  I  am  sure  that  good  sister  re- 
ceived the  gift  of  joy  from  her  labors. 

There  is  much  I  might  tell  you  even  after  a  brief  trip  to  Scandi- 
navia this  summer  about  the  conditions  of  the  people.  They  are  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints,  second  to  none  in  the  wards  of  Zion.  I  just 
touched  old  London  for  a  few  days  and  found  it  the  same  wonderful 
old  London,  in  the  same  condition  as  of  the  past.  The  people  there, 
our  people,  are  reported  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  their  covenants 
with  the  Lord,  through  their  baptism  into  the  Church. 

Worldwide  Message 

I  would  like  to  say,  before  I  close  this  brief  report,  that  I  was 
greatly  thrilled  this  morning  as  I  heard  Brother  Cowley  give  his  re- 
port, and  added  to  that  we  have  heard  from  Brother  Kirkham  a  few 
moments  ago.  The  message  of  the  Church  is  not  to  the  valleys  of 
the  mountains  alone.  It  is  not  to  be  confined  in  these  valleys  sur- 
rounded by  these  everlasting  hills.  We  have  a  worldwide  message. 
Our  army  of  missionaries,  five  thousand  eight  hundred  strong  as  was 
reported  this  morning,  implies  our  belief  in  the  spread  of  the  gospel 
over  the  whole  earth.  The  Lord  has  said  himself  that  every  ear  shall 
hear  the  gospel  in  these  latter  days.  That  means  not  only  the  ears 
of  the  people  who  are  here  in  this  beautiful,  blessed  land  of  America, 
but  far  beyond  over  the  seas,  on  the  islands,  everywhere,  the  gospel 
has  been  preached  and  must  continue  to  be  taught.  And  we're  doing 
this  sacred  work  to  the  best  of  our  ability.  As  we  do  that  and  con- 
tinue to  do  it,  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  magnify  us  and  make  us 
powerful  and  strong,  acceptable  to  him.  Let  us  never  forget  the 
worldwide  nature  of  our  obligations  before  the  Lord.  Our  mission- 
ary system  must  be  cherished  and  be  kept  alive  constantly  and  for- 
ever, until  that  last  great  day  comes  and  the  Lord  says  that  the  work 
is  done. 

We  Have  The  Truth 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  bear  you  again  my  testimony  that  I 
know  this  to  be  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  truth.  As  Brig- 
ham  Young  used  to  say,  "Men  ask  me  what  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is,  what  name  does  it  bear?  And  I  say  to  you,  its  name  might  well 
be  truth."  We  and  the  Church,  if  we  are  faithful,  as  we  have  been 
taught  this  morning  by  the  President,  the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  shall 
conquer.  We  cannot  fail.  Truth  is  never  defeated.  It  blesses  all 
who  possess  it.  We  have  the  truth.  If  we  will  keep  the  truth  and  if 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Dag 

we  cherish  it  and  practise  it  in  our  lives,  then  victory  over  error  will 
be  ours  from  the  smallest  household  in  Zion  to  the  farthest  outpost 
of  Zion,  wherever  that  may  be.  Thus  through  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  in  our  day,  the  whole  world  shall  be  blessed. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  fill  us  with  an  understanding  of  this 
mighty  work  laid  out  for  us  in  these  latter  days  and  make  us  able 
to  do  the  Lord's  work,  which  we  can  do  if  we  are  faithful,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang 
the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man." 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  while  I  stand  here 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  be  with  me  because  indeed  it  is  a  frighten- 
ing thing  to  stand  before  so  many  people,  and  I  realize  my  great 
need  of  help. 

President  George  F.  Richards 

I  have  missed  in  this  conference  the  genial  presence  of  President 
George  F.  Richards.  I  would  like  you  to  know  that  I,  as  one  of  the 
members  of  his  Council,  was  very,  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of 
serving  under  his  leadership.  I  regard  him  as  a  truly  great  man — a 
great  soul — a  great  leader.  I  am  sure  that  no  one  had  a  more  firm 
faith  in  the  Almighty  than  did  President  Richards.  I  am  sure  that 
he  was  an  inspired  man  of  God,  and  I  would  like  to  say  to  you  that 
I,  along  with  the  other  members  of  the  Council,  loved  that  man 
deeply;  and  today,  together  with  the  rest  of  you,  I  miss  his  presence 
here. 

Story  of  a  Friend 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  story  about  a  friend  of  mine  whom  I 
shall  call  Bill,  for  the  sake  of  anonymity.  During  Bill's  last  year  at 
school,  he  met  a  lovely  young  woman  named  Helen.  They  became 
very  good  friends,  and  it  wasn't  very  long  until  they  began  to  talk 
about  the  possibility  of  their  getting  married. 

During  that  same  last  year  of  school  Bill  fell  in  with  a  group 
of  fellows  who  were  known  as  the  most  popular  group  on  the  campus. 
They  taught  Bill  some  bad  habits. 

When  Helen  first  saw  Bill  with  a  cigaret  in  his  mouth,  it  nearly 
broke  her  heart.  She  talked  with  him  and  pleaded  with  him,  but 
he  felt  that  smoking  cigarets  was  one  of  the  things  that  went  with 
the  popularity  of  this  group  on  the  campus.  So  her  pleadings  brought 
no  results.  Helen  began  to  wonder  if  she  should  stay  with  Bill  or 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


39 


not,  whether  she  should  allow  their  courtship  to  end  in  marriage. 
She  wanted  to  be  married  in  the  temple,  and  she  knew  that  if  Bill 
continued  to  smoke  cigarets  they  would  not  get  to  the  temple. 

When  graduation  time  came,  Bill  offered  a  formal  proposal  to 
Helen  and  asked  her  to  set  the  date  of  their  wedding.  She  thought 
it  over  long  and  seriously.  She  loved  Bill  a  very  great  deal  and  did 
not  like  the  idea  of  losing  him.  But  neither  did  she  like  the  idea  of 
marrying  a  smoking  man,  one  who  could  not  take  her  into  the  temple 
where  she  had  wanted  to  go. 

After  some  days'  consideration,  Helen  finally  came  to  the  con- 
clusion that  when  school  was  out,  Bill  would  be  separated  from  this 
group  of  boys  and  that  possibly,  if  she  married  him,  under  her  in- 
fluence he  might  leave  off  the  bad  habits  which  he  had  acquired  and 
get  back  into  activity  in  the  Church.  And  then,  probably  within  a 
year  or  so,  they  could  go  to  the  temple  together;  so  she  consented, 
and  they  were  married  by  her  bishop  in  her  living  room  at  home. 

A  year  or  so  went  by,  and  a  lovely  baby  boy  was  born  to  them. 
They  called  him  John.  In  due  time  another  boy  was  born  to  them. 
They  called  him  James,  but  he  was  soon  known  as  Jim. 

Bill  loved  his  two  boys,  and  every  night  after  he  came  home  from 
work,  he  would  play  with  them  and  have  just  a  grand  time.  He  would 
hold  them  way  above  his  head  and  laugh  at  them  and  talk  to  them, 
and  they  would  laugh  back.  Then  he  would  bring  them  down  and 
hug  them  to  him. 

This  show  of  affection  made  Helen  very  happy,  but  Bill  played 
with  them  while  he  had  a  cigaret  in  his  mouth,  and  when  Helen  saw 
those  little  baby  hands  reach  out  for  that  smoldering  white  thing  be- 
tween Bill's  lips,  her  heart  sank,  and  she  began  to  wonder  what  that 
example  might  mean  in  the  future  lives  of  those  boys. 

Years  went  by.  John  became  twenty  years  of  age  and  was 
called  on  a  mission.  He  was  thrilled  with  the  call  and  so  was  his 
mother.  Bill — well,  on  the  night  of  the  farewell  testimonial,  Bill  sat 
on  the  stand  with  his  wife  and  son  and  he  was  just  about  as  proud 
as  any  father  could  be,  because  John  was  really  a  remarkably  fine 
young  man. 

About  three  weeks  after  John's  departure  for  his  mission,  Bill 
was  sitting  one  evening  in  front  of  the  big,  open  fireplace  in  the  living 
room  reading  the  evening  paper  and  smoking  a  cigaret.  While  he 
was  doing  so,  in  came  Jim,  a  young  man  by  this  time.  Jim  said,  "Hi, 
Dad." 

Without  looking  up  from  his  paper,  Bill  said,  "Hello,  Son.  How 
are  you?" 

"I'm  fine,  Dad.  I  want  to  ask  you  a  question." 
"All  right,  Son,  what  is  it?" 
"What's  the  best  brand  of  cigarets?" 

Bill  stiffened  in  his  chair.  For  a  moment  it  seemed  as  if  he  were 
frozen  there.  Then  his  hands  relaxed,  and  the  paper  slipped  from 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

his  fingers  and  fell  to  the  floor.  He  flipped  his  cigaret  over  into  the 
open  fire  and  then  stood  up  and  faced  his  son. 

He  said,  "Jim,  you  cannot  start  to  smoke." 

"But  I  have  started  already,  and  I  want  to  know  what  is  the 
best  brand  of  cigarets?"  «■ 

"Son,  I  am  telling  you,"  Bill  said,  "you  cannot  start  to  smoke." 

"Well,  why  not,  Dad?  You've  smoked  as  long  as  I  can  remem- 
ber, and  it  hasn't  hurt  you  any.  I've  watched  you." 

Those  last  words  Jim  spoke  cut  into  Bill's  heart.  "I've  watched 
you.  I've  watched  you."  Then  Helen  was  right,  Bill  thought  to  him- 
self. All  these  years  Helen  had  told  him  that  his  cigaret  habit — the 
example  he  was  holding  before  his  sons — would  result  like  this,  and 
he  had  never  believed  her.  Now  Helen  was  right.  Here  was  Jim 
saying,  "I've  watched  you.  I've  watched  you." 

Then  Bill  felt  a  consciousness  of  guilt,  a  note  of  self-accusation, 
and  there  were  words  going  through  his  mind  saying,  "I  taught  him. 
I  taught  him.  I  taught  him." 

Bill  shook  himself  and  walked  over  to  his  son  and  took  hold  of 
both  shoulders  and  looked  him  square  in  the  eye  and  said,  "Son,  you 
say  these  cigarets  didn't  ever  hurt  me.  And  you  say  you've  watched 
me.  I  want  you  to  know  that  these  cigarets  have  done  me  more 
harm  than  anything  else  in  my  life.  Nothing  has  hurt  me,  nothing 
has  handicapped  me  so  much  as  these  cigarets.  Why,  I'd  give  any- 
thing that  I  own  if  I  had  never  started  to  use  them,  and  I  don't  want 
to  see  the  same  handicaps  come  to  you.  Why,  Jim,  these  cigarets 
have  raised  a  barrier  between  me  and  happiness  right  here  in  my  own 
home,  and  they  have  caused  your  mother  many  hours  of  weeping. 
I  know  that,  and  I  don't  want  you  to  undertake  a  habit  of  this  kind." 

He  talked  so  earnestly  and  so  unusually  that  Jim  at  first  thought 
that  his  Dad  was  putting  on  an  act  and  told  him  so.  Again  Bill  be- 
gan to  talk  and  plead  with  his  son  never  to  smoke  again,  to  get  rid 
of  this  habit  that  he  had  just  begun. 

Then  Jim,  realizing  that  his  dad  was  really  serious,  said,  "Well, 
Dad,  if  this  cigaret  habit  is  so  bad,  why  haven't  you  quit?" 

Bill  said,  "I've  tried  to  quit.  I've  tried  many  times,  but  I  have 
never  been  able  to — the  habit  is  too  strong.  I'm  just  like  a  slave  to 
this  ciga/et  and  I  don't  want  you  to  become  a  slave.  Now,  Son,  cut  it 
out." 

Jim  said,  "Well,  Dad,  you  see  all  the  fellows  I  go  with — they  all 
smoke.  They'll  think  I'm  a  sissy.  I  couldn't  face  those  fellows  and 
tell  them  I  wasn't  going  to  smoke  any  more.  They  are  the  most 
popular  crowd  I  know. 

Bill  said,  "Popular  or  not,  stop  this  habit  and  if  necessary  get  a 
new  crowd.  Find  new  friends  who  don't  smoke,  but  let  cigarets 
alone." 

Jim  said,  "Well,  I  don't  know  whether  I  can  do  that  or  not. 
I'll  have  to  think  this  over." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


41 


Then  his  dad  said,  "Jim,  I'll  make  a  bargain  with  you.  If  you'll 
quit  smoking,  I'll  quit." 

Jim,  quick  as  a  flash  said,  "Well,  Dad,  you  just  told  me  you 
couldn't  quit.  Are  you  trying  to  lead  me  along?" 

Bill's  answer  to  that  was  that  he  walked  over  to  the  fireplace, 
put  his  hand  in  his  pocket,  pulled  out  the  package  of  cigarets  and 
the  folder  of  matches,  and  threw  them  into  the  open  fireplace.  Then 
he  turned  around  and  faced  his  son  and  said,  "Son,  I've  quit.  I'm 
all  through.  Now,  will  you  do  the  same  thing?" 

"Well  I  don't  know,  Dad,  I've  got  to  think  this  over,"  Jim  said. 
"I'll  tell  you  in  the  morning." 

That  night  Bill  couldn't  sleep.  He  rolled  and  tossed  in  bed  as 
long  as  he  could  stand  it  and  then  got  up  and  went  into  the  living 
room  and  closed  the  door.  He  didn't  turn  on  the  lights.  He  just 
walked  the  floor  there  in  the  dark.  Jim's  words  kept  going  through 
his  head,  "I've  watched  you.  I've  watched  you,"  followed  by  his 
own  sense  of  self-accusation,  "I  taught  him.  I  taught  him." 

It  had  been  a  long  time  since  Bill  had  said  a  prayer.  He  had 
left  that  pretty  much  with  Helen.  But  this  night  he  wanted  more 
than  anything  else  to  have  Jim  quit  smoking;  so  there  in  the  dark- 
ness and  the  stillness  of  his  home  he  slipped  down  on  his  knees  and 
began  to  pray.  He  poured  out  his  soul  to  the  Lord  and  told  him  all 
of  his  faults  and  shortcomings,  confessed  all  of  his  sins  to  the  Lord — 
the  first  time  he'd  ever  done  that.  Then  he  told  the  Lord  about  Jim 
and  their  conversation  of  the  evening. 

He  didn't  pray  with  much  faith.  The  cigarets  had  pretty  well 
weakened  what  faith  he  had,  but  he  did  pray  from  a  sense  of  fear — 
fear  for  the  future  of  that  boy;  and  from  a  sense  of  love — love  for 
a  son  for  whom  he  would  give  his  own  life,  if  necessary.  But  it 
seemed  like  asking  a  great  deal  of  the  Lord  to  erase  in  one  night  an 
example  which  he  had  held  before  his  son  ever  since  that  son  was  a 
tiny  baby. 

At  last  morning  came.  Bill  slowly  climbed  the  stairs  up  to  Jim's 
room  and  went  in  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed.  He  put 
one  hand  on  Jim's  shoulder.  Jim  turned  over,  and  Bill  said,  "Son, 
what's  your  answer?" 

Jim  looked  up  into  his  dad's  tired  face  and  sleepless  eyes  and 
said,  "Dad,  I  surely  don't  want  to  hurt  your  feelings,  but  the  fellows 
— I  couldn't  face  them.  I  guess  I  won't  quit.  I'll  wait  awhile." 

Deeply  disappointed  but  without  saying  another  word,  Bill  got 
up  and  walked  slowly  out  of  the  room.  He  felt  like  he  had  been 
whipped.  But  he  was  more  than  ever  determined  to  keep  his  own 
resolution.  He  would  never  go  back  to  his  cigarets. 

The  next  Sunday  he  went  to  Church,  the  first  time  in  years.  He 
went  again  the  next  Sunday  and  the  next,  and  he  continued  to  go 
and  enjoyed  it. 

About  a  year  afterwards  the  bishop  came  to  him  one  day  and 
said,  "Bill,  how  would  you  like  to  be  ordained  an  elder?" 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29  First  Day 

A  lump  came  into  Bill's  throat,  and  his  eyes  filled  with  tears  as 
he  took  hold  of  the  bishop's  hand  and  said,  "Bishop,  do  you  mean 
that  at  last  I  can  take  Helen  to  the  temple?" 

The  bishop  squeezed  his  hand  and  said,  "Yes,  Bill,  at  last  you 
can  take  Helen  to  the  temple." 

Another  year  went  by,  and  John  came  home  from  his  mission. 
One  day  when  John  and  his  father  were  alone  together,  John  went 
over  and  put  his  arm  around  his  dad  and  said,  "Dad,  I  want  you  to 
know  how  deeply  grateful  I  am  to  you  for  the  wonderful  thing  you 
have  done.  You  know,  as  a  boy  I  always  used  to  think  that  my  dad 
was  just  about  perfect,  and  I  guess  every  boy  thinks  that  his  dad  is 
the  greatest  man  in  the  world.  But  every  time  you  took  a  cigaret, 
it  hurt  me  deep  inside.  I  knew  you  had  a  weakness  you  couldn't 
control.  But  now,  Dad,  all  that  is  over,  and  I  want  you  to  know  how 
grateful  I  am  to  you." 

But  what  about  Jim?  Well,  Jim  is  married  now  and  has  a  little 
boy  of  his  own,  and  he  comes  home  at  night  and  plays  with  this  boy 
just  as  Bill  used  to  play  with  Jim.  And  when  Jim  gets  his  own  little 
son  up  in  his  arms,  that  little  baby,  just  as  his  father  did,  reaches  out 
for  that  smoldering  white  thing  between  his  dad's  lips. 

The  other  day  I  rode  home  on  the  bus  with  Bill,  and  he  was 
telling  me  how  happy  he  is  in  his  new  life.  And  then  he  told  me  about 
Jim,  and  said  that  if  nearly  twenty  years  of  a  bad  example  would 
put  Jim  where  he  now  is,  possibly  another  twenty  years  of  a  good 
example  might  bring  him  back  to  where  he  ought  to  be.  And  I 
thought,  "God  bless  you,  Bill." 

And  God  bless  all  other  men  like  him  in  the  wonderful  struggle 
they  are  making  for  the  right. 

And  God  bless  Jim  and  all  other  boys  like  him  that  they  may 
recognize  tobacco  for  what  it  is — a  narcotic  which  enslaves  human 
beings  and  helps  to  destroy  their  faith  in  God.  This  is  my  prayer, 
in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANCIS  A.  CHILD 

Formerly  President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  Brother  Clifford  Young  said  that 
it  is  a  challenge  to  any  man  to  stand  before  this  audience.  I  bear  my 
humble  testimony  that  to  a  Child  it's  more  than  that. 

Sister  Child  and  I  are  very  appreciative  and  thankful  for  the 
call  we  received  to  preside  over  one  of  the  great  missions  of  the 
Church.  We  arrived  in  Denver  in  December  of  '45  to  take  charge  of 
the  Western  States  Mission.  You  remember  that  that  was  following 
the  war  and  we  had,  to  begin  with,  just  nineteen  missionaries.  They 
were  pretty  well  scattered  over  that  vast  area,  but  we  felt  that  the 
Lord  would  bless  us  if  we  would  apply  ourselves  to  the  work.  We 
asked  the  Lord  to  bless  our  labors,  but  we  can't  expect  him  to  bless 


ELDER  FRANCIS  A.  CHILD 


43 


our  labors  unless  we  labor.  We  appreciated  this  call  very  much, 
first  because  it  brought  us  under  closer  supervision  and  in  close  con- 
tact with  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  whom  we  love  very  dearly 
and,  with  them  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  the  other  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church.  They  have  been  so  considerate  and  so 
kind  personally  and  have  given  so  much  attention  to  the  mission 
where  we  labored,  that  we  feel  very  grateful  to  them. 

We  have  a  very  happy  memory  of  our  tours  of  the  mission,  first 
with  Milton  R.  Hunter,  and  then  with  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  with 
President  Antoine  R.  Ivins  and  Sister  Ivins,  and  with  Thomas  E. 
McKay,  as  Assistant  to  the  twelve,  and  Sister  McKay.  These  were 
all  very  wonderful  experiences.  To  travel  day  after  day  and  to  hold 
conference  every  night  with  these  men  and  women  who  are  inspired 
of  the  Lord  to  do  the  work  is  an  unusual  experience  and  one  you 
can't  forget. 

We  had  some  wonderful  missionaries  come  to  us.  We  received 
the  first  missionaries  from  the  war  service.  They  came  out  of  the 
Army,  off  the  battleships,  and  out  of  the  airplanes,  and  yet  they 
were  marvelous  missionaries.  They  had  received  an  experience  that 
matured  them  and  gave  them  qualities  of  leadership,  and  it  was  won- 
derful to  know  that  they  had  been  in  those  situations  without  losing 
the  testimony  which  they  had  carried  from  their  homes  and  from 
their  wards.  We  received  in  the  four  years  we  were  there  367  mis- 
sionaries. Most  of  them  were  elders  and  considering  the  fact,  as  I 
said,  that  most  of  them  had  had  service  in  the  Army  or  the  Navy,  it 
was  remarkable  to  know  that  not  in  one  instance  did  we  have  occasion 
to  criticize  any  missionary,  any  elder,  for  violation  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  or  for  disregarding  the  standards  of  the  Church.  That 
speaks  very  highly  for  the  training  that  they  had  received  previous 
to  their  missionary  experience. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  friends  out  in  the  mission  field,  I  hope 
some  of  them  are  listening  in,  for  the  friendly  assistance  given  to 
our  missionaries.  They  were  so  kind  and  so  considerate  and  so  help- 
ful. I  am  sure  the  Lord  will  recognize  their  work  as  a  contribution 
to  the  great  missionary  service  of  the  Church,  and  were  Christ  speak- 
ing, I'm  sure  he  would  say  that  in  being  kind  to  these  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  you  were  kind  to  me  because  they  are  my  servants. 

As  I  said  before,  we  had  only  nineteen  missionaries  in  the  field 
when  we  went  out,  and  then  they  began  coming  ten  at  a  time,  twelve 
at  a  time,  fifteen  at  a  time.  We  would  hold  a  little  conference  with 
them,  have  a  testimony  meeting,  and  then  assign  them  out.  I  as- 
signed two  elders  together  in  a  new  city  who  had  never  had  any  ex- 
perience in  missionary  work  with  senior  companions  to  show  them  the 
way.  That  was  a  test  period  in  the  mission,  but  it's  remarkable  how 
the  Lord  sustained  them. 

One  of  our  problems  was  to  find  accommodations  in  the  homes 
of  people  where  they  could  stay  while  they  did  their  labors,  but  the 
Lord  opened  the  way.  Let  me  give  you  one  example:  We  desired 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  Pint  Day 

to  send  two  sisters  to  Lajunta,  Colorado  where  we  were  opening  up 
the  work.  Two  elders  were  sent  there  first  and  they  tried  to  find  some 
place  in  which  the  sisters  could  stay  before  they  moved  there.  They 
couldn't  find  any  place,  but  we  told  the  sisters  to  go  there  and  we 
were  sure  the  Lord  would  provide  a  place  for  them;  not  to  be  dis- 
couraged, but  to  go  there  and  put  an  advertisement  in  the  paper. 
They  did  that  and  on  reaching  Lajunta  they  put  a  small  ad  in  the 
paper  which  read  "Room  desired  in  a  home  with  cooking  privileges, 
for  two  young  women  who  do  not  smoke  and  do  not  drink  and  do  not 
entertain."  The  paper  came  out  at  5:00  o'clock  and  at  8:00  o'clock 
they  had  three  or  four  offers.  The  ad  ran  three  days  and  at  the  end 
of  three  days,  they  had  seventeen  places  to  choose  from.  One  good 
old  couple  said,  "Yes,  we  have  a  place  in  our  home  for  young  women 
like  that.  The  last  ones  we  had  stay  at  our  home  burned  us  out. 
Yes,  if  there  are  any  young  people  that  do  not  smoke,  if  there  are  any 
young  women  that  do  not  drink  and  do  not  entertain,  we  would 
like  to  have  them  in  our  home."  And  so  by  using  that  advertise- 
ment, holding  up  our  standards,  places  were  provided  in  every  city 
to  which  missionaries  were  assigned  without  any  difficulty. 

I  wish  to  thank  the  parents  of  those  wonderful  young  men  and 
young  women  who  came  to  us.  They  were  remarkable — some  had 
their  weaknesses  that  they  had  to  overcome,  but  they  were  great 
missionaries. 

It  is  a  remarkable  experience  to  be  a  mission  president.  I  think 
no  greater  blessing  can  come  to  any  man  in  the  Church,  and  no 
greater  blessing  can  come  to  a  sister  than  to  be  along  with  her  hus- 
band in  that  presiding  position.  We  watched  them  come,  new,  in- 
experienced, bashful,  and  backward,  timid,  and  just  as  tense  as  they 
could  be.  They  were  uncertain  of  their  testimonies,  but  they  were 
•  willing.   They  accepted  their  assignment,  sometimes  in  a  difficult 

part  of  the  mission.  And  they  applied  themselves  and  as  they  applied 
themselves,  they  prayed  to  our  Heavenly  Father  and  he  blessed  them. 
We  watched  them  grow  and  then  we  watched  them  when  they  were 
released.  They  had  gained  spiritual  stature.  They  had  become  strong 
in  their  testimony.  They  were  self-reliant.  They  could  stand  on  their 
feet  and  declare  their  faith  and  uphold  the  standards  of  the  Church. 
I  know  those  young  men  and  young  women  would  all,  if  they  had 
the  opportunity,  stand  up  and  say,  honestly,  that  the  two  years  or 
so  spent  in  the  mission  field  were  the  most  wonderful  two  years  of 
their  lives.  And  I  think  they  will  continue  to  say  that  as  long  as 
they  live. 

A  gentleman  attended  one  of  our  conferences  who  had  been  the 
president  of  a  university,  and  after  he  had  listened  to  the  testimonies 
of  the  missionaries,  especially  the  elders,  he  said  it  reminded  him  of 
when  he  was  a  young  man  and  performed  a  mission,  He  said:  "Since 
that  time  I  have  completed  my  schooling,  I  have  held  various  posi- 
tions as  an  educator,  and  finally  was  appointed  and  selected  as  a 
president  of  a  university,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  now  that  the  ex- 


ELDER  GLENN  G.  SMITH 


45 


perience  that  I  received  when  I  was  a  young  man  in  the  mission  field 
did  more  for  me  in  making  me  what  I  am  than  all  the  schooling  I 
received  that  prepared  me  for  my  educational  career." 

You  mothers  and  fathers,  I  would  admonish  you  to  prepare 
your  children  to  accept  a  mission.  I  say  prepare  because  I  think  it 
should  start  early  in  life.  So  often  our  missionaries  in  their  first  testi- 
mony express  this  thought:  "I  have  prayed  all  my  life  that  I  would 
have  this  opportunity  and  now  I  sincerely  pray  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  I'll  be  a  successful  missionary."  Start  them  out  with  the 
missionary  spirit  early.  You  couldn't  do  anything  better  for  them. 
If  you  would  give  them  the  greatest  heritage,  the  richest  heritage, 
that  could  come  to  them,  send  them  on  a  mission.  If  you  would 
qualify  them  to  meet  the  problems  of  life,  send  them  on  a  mission. 
I  am  sure  that  what  they  receive  there  will  be  a  blessing  to  them 
and  will  qualify  them  in  their  after  years  and  throughout  their  lives. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  and  keep  us  faithful  through  apply- 
ing ourselves  to  the  work  which  has  been  given  to  us  for  it's  our 
work,  given  to  us  for  a  definite  responsibility,  and  we  accept  that 
responsibility  when  we  accept  membership  in  the  Church.  May  he 
help  us  to  magnify  ourselves  in  that  service,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GLENN  G.  SMITH 

Formerly  President  of  the  Texas-Louisiana  Mission 

I  can  say  amen,  brothers  and  sisters,  to  all  President  Child  has 
said  regarding  the  missionaries  and  also  of  the  fear  that  is  in  my 
heart  in  standing  before  such  a  magnificent  congregation. 

We,  too,  spent  four  years  in  the  mission  field  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission,  and,  as  all  good  missionaries  say,  "Ours  was  the 
best  mission  in  the  world.  We  learned  to  love  those  mild,  gentle 
people  and  that  wonderful  Southland.  We  began  to  believe  it  truly 
the  Garden  of  Eden.  The  hearts  of  the  people  were  so  big  and  gen- 
erous we  couldn't  help  but  feel  that  part  of  this  land  must  have  been 
the  Garden  of  Eden.  And,  as  proof  that  it  was,  we  read  that  Adam 
and  Eve  were  driven  out  into  the  cold,  and  dreary  world,  and  the 
prophet  found  his  altar  north  of  Texas.  We  were  wonderfully 
blessed  in  being  permitted  to  labor  among  the  people  of  this  great 
mission. 

There  were  twelve  missionaries  when  we  arrived  at  Houston — 
no  young  Elders  at  all.  The  lady  missionaries  who  were  there 
labored  in  the  office.  There  were  some  elderly  brethren  in  the  field. 
Also  three  couples.  These  missionaries  did  a  wonderful  work.  One 
couple  performed  a  most  wonderful  mission,  baptizing  thirty-seven 
converts  into  the  Church.  They  also  sold  over  six  hundred  copies 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  two  years. 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Fridag,  September  29  F'"t  Dag 

When  the  young  missionaries  began  to  come,  and  there  were 
no  older  ones  for  senior  companions,  how  our  hearts  went  out  to 
them.  I  well  remember  one  in  particular  saying  to  me,  "President 
Smith,  haven't  we  a  senior  companion?"  I  said,  "No."  "Well,  what 
will  we  do?"  "You  will  go  out  in  the  authority  of  the  holy  priest- 
hood of  Almighty  God.  You'll  bear  your  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
this  great  work  and  as  you  apply  yourself,  God  will  grant  unto  you 
wisdom,  understanding,  vision,  and  discernment.  You  will  be  able 
to  meet  the  opposition  in  a  sweet  and  humble  way  and  you  will  be 
the  means  in  God's  hands  in  performing  his  work."  I  bear  solemn 
testimony  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  these  young  men  and 
women  went  into  the  world  with  faith  in  their  hearts  and  a  determi- 
nation to  do  the  thing  the  Lord  wanted  done  and  they  performed  a 
most  magnificent  work. 

The  population  of  the  mission  so  far  as  the  Church  was  con- 
cerned was  approximately  7700  at  that  time.  Before  we  left  it  had 
climbed  to  almost  10,000.  The  missionaries  have  been  successful  in 
that  area.  With  due  respect  to  President  J.  Golden  Kimball's  state- 
ment, "that  the  Gospel  must  be  true  or  the  Elders  would  have  ruined 
it  long  ago,"  I  know  each  one  of  these  fine  missionaries  knows  the 
Gospel  is  true.  These  young  men  and  young  women,  your  sons 
and  daughters,  have  strong  and  fervent  testimonies  of  the  divinity 
of  the  great  work.  I,  too,  like  Brother  Child,  can  say  that  the  best 
thing  you  can  do  for  your  sons  and  your  daughters  is  to  plant  deep 
in  their  hearts  at  a  young  age  a  desire  to  represent  the  General 
Authorities  of  this  great  Church  and  Jesus  the  Redeemer  of  mankind, 
in  bringing  souls  to  him.  "For  though  they  labor  all  the  days  of 
their  lives  and  bring  but  one  soul,  how  great  will  be  their  joy  with 
that  one  soul  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father." 

In  conclusion  may  I  quote  from  Edgar  A.  Guest. 

God  grant  me  this:  the  right  to  come  at  night 
Back  to  my  loved  ones,  head  erect  and  true; 
Beaten  and  bruised  and  from  a  losing  light, 
Let  me  be  proud  in  what  I've  tried  to  do. 

Let  me  come  home  defeated  if  I  must, 
But  clean  of  hands,  and  honor  unimpaired. 
Still  holding  firmly  to  my  children's  trust, 
Still  worthy  of  the  faith  which  they  have  shared. 

God  grant  me  this:  what  e'er  the  fates  decree, 
Or  do  I  win  or  lose  life's  little  game, 
I  still  would  keep  my  children  proud  of  me. 
Nor  once  regret  that  they  must  bear  my  name. 

God  bless  us  as  Latter-day  Saints.  That  we  may  all  measure 
up  in  the  eyes  of  our  children,  as  we  feel  our  parents  have  so  nobly 
done  before  us,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 


47 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 

Formerly  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust  and  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  which  was  so  manifest  during  our  sessions  this  morning  and 
this  afternoon.  I  will  say  "Hawaii  Noka  noi!"  That  is,  there  is  no 
mission  that  goes  beyond  or  exceeds  Hawaii. 

I  have  had  the  privilege  of  laboring  among  the  true  blood  of 
Israel,  through  the  loins  of  Joseph,  through  the  two  branches  of  the 
House  of  Israel — Ephraim  and  Manassa — a  people  whom  the  Lord 
loves — a  people  whom  the  Lord  chastens  and  forgives  because  of 
their  great  faith. 

Hawaii,  during  the  past  one  hundred  years,  has  been  greatly 
blessed  because  of  the  faith  of  that  wonderful  people.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  them  with  a  Temple,  where  they  have  the  privilege  of  going 
into  the  House  of  the  Lord.  And  they  look  upon  that  house  with 
sacred  feelings  in  their  hearts.  Would  that  you  could  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  attending  one  of  the  sessions  in  the  Hawaiian  Temple  at 
Laie  and  witness  there  the  sincerity  and  the  honor  they  feel  for  the 
privilege  which  is  theirs  in  going  into  that  holy  house. 

I  feel  it  within  my  heart  that  I  am  an  Hawaiian.  I  was  born  in 
Hawaii.  I  made  that  statement  once  that  I  was  an  Hawaiian  and 
one  boy  spoke  out  in  that  little  meeting  and  said,  "You  don't  look 
like  it  to  me." 

I  said,  "Son,  why?" 

And  he  said,  "Because  you  haven't  got  the  same  color  skin." 

I  said,  "No,  son,  that's  true.  I  haven't  been  blessed  with  that 
delicate,  brown,  lovely  skin  of  the  Hawaiian,  but  if  you  could  see 
my  heart,  you  could  note  that  I  am  an  Hawaiian." 

I  love  that  people  because  of  their  faith  and  their  love  and  their 
respect  for  the  General  Authorities  of  this  Church.  When  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  visited  them,  they  honored  and  respected  him, 
and  they  love  him  as  their  prophet.  When  they  say  their  morning 
prayers  and  at  night,  they  remember  their  prophet.  They  remember 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  for  they  love  them.  And  when 
the  counsel  goes  out  from  the  headquarters  unto  that  wonderful  peo- 
ple, they  heed  that  counsel  and  they  honor  it. 

The  Lord  said  that  they  should  become  a  white  and  delightsome 
people.  They  are  a  delightsome  people  and  I  feel,  when  they  stand 
before  God  and  their  souls  are  presented  before  him  you'll  find  that 
they  are  a  white  and  delightsome  people.  We  are  not  judged  by  the 
clothes  we  wear,  nor  the  skin  that  covers  these  bodies  but  God  will 
judge  us  by  the  purity  and  the  love  and  the  sincerity  that's  in  our 
hearts. 

The  mission  of  Hawaii  has  also  produced  a  Stake.  It  stands  well 
among  the  leaders  of  the  Stakes  of  this  great  Church.  They  have 
produced  many  missionaries.  During  the  past  year  and  a  half  it  has 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  September  29  First  Day 

been  my  joy  to  present  before  the  First  Presidency  ten  names  of 
Hawaiians  for  missionary  work,  and  they  honored  these  fine  young 
people  and  all  ten  were  assigned  to  labor  in  the  Japanese  Mission, 
in  Japan.  And  they  are  doing  good  work.  I  would  like  to  relate  one 
little  incident  of  Brother  William  Akau  from  Kawaihae,  a  fisherman 
boy,  a  boy  who  was  out  to  sea  fishing  for  a  living.  He  was  called 
on  a  mission.  He  said,  "I'm  not  learned.  I  haven't  had  a  college 
education,  but  I  know  that  God  lives  and  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  divine  prophet  of  God."  And  so  he  hung  his  net  upon  a  branch 
of  a  Kiawi  tree  and  he  went  forth  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  become  a  fisherman  of  men.  In  bearing  his  testimony,  he 
declared  that  he  prayed  sincerely  and  honestly  that  he  might  perform 
an  honorable  mission  and  when  his  work  was  completed  in  the  land 
of  Japan,  that  he  could  return  to  his  little  village  at  Kawaihae  and 
there  pick  up  his  net  on  the  Kiawi  tree  and  go  fishing  again.  Another 
stalwart  boy  had  only  been  in  the  Church  two  years,  married,  and 
had  a  lovely  baby.  His  mother  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church  and 
so  I  spoke  to  the  mother  first,  about  his  going  on  a  mission.  He  was 
a  boy  who  was  well  provided  with  the  necessities  and  comforts  of 
life,  and  the  mother  said:  "Yes,  President  Smith,  it  would  be  an 
honor  unto  us  to  have  our  son  go  on  a  mission."  Then  I  spoke  to 
his  wife.  She  cried  with  joy,  "What  a  grand  blessing  it  would  be 
for  my  husband  to  go  on  a  mission." 

"How  would  you  get  along?" 

"Very  well,  with  my  baby  to  comfort  me." 

"Then  I  spoke  to  the  boy,  who  had  just  purchased  him  a  brand 
new  1948  Packard  automobile,  "Kimo,  how  would  you  like  to  ac- 
cept a  mission?" 

"President  Smith,  I  would  appreciate  the  honor." 

I  said,  "I  have  interviewed  your  mother  and  your  wife;  they  feel 
as  you  do." 

And  so  his  name  was  presented  to  the  First  Presidency.  He  was 
called  upon  a  mission.  He  went  to  Japan  with  his  music.  President 
Clissold  reports  to  me  that  during  the  time  of  study  when  he  could 
hear  the  other  missionaries  studying  aloud,  this  good  boy  was  off 
in  the  corner  of  the  room  playing  his  guitar.  His  first  impression  was 
to  correct  that  and  have  him  join  the  other  missionaries  in  studying 
the  language,  but  he  said  he  felt  perhaps  that  he  was  homesick.  Then 
a  day  or  two  later  again  he  was  playing  his  music  while  the  others 
were  studying.  President  Clissold  hesitated,  then,  to  speak  and  the 
third  time  he  said:  "Well,  perhaps  I  had  better  speak  to  him."  But 
that  morning  he  called  on  him  to  pray.  In  that  little  family  group 
of  missionaries,  he  got  down  upon  his  knees  and  he  humbly  prayed 
in  the  Japanese  language.  It  was  not  a  memorized  prayer.  President 
Clissold  said  it  came  from  his  heart,  and  he  marveled.  The  next 
morning  he  was  called  upon  to  offer  prayer  for  the  food  they  were 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 


49 


eating,  and  again  in  the  language  of  the  Japanese  he  prayed.  He  said, 
"How  are  you  learning  this  language,  Kimo?" 

"Well  he  said,  "You  know  I  go  off  in  a  room  with  my  guitar  and 
while  the  other  missionaries  are  talking  one  with  another  and  ex- 
plaining the  principles  of  the  language  I  listen.  It  goes  in  this  ear, 
the  music  goes  in  that  ear  and  it  can't  get  out.  And  thus,  I've 
learned  the  Japanese  language." 

I  am  proud  of  our  missionaries  in  Japan.  It  seems  to  be  easy 
for  them  to  learn  the  language  among  that  people. 

And  another  thing  they  have  taken  into  that  land  is  kindness 
and  sunshine,  and  love  for  the  music  of  Hawaii.  Through  the  war 
clouds  over  Japan  and  their  defeat,  and  they  were  crushed,  they 
could  see  no  light,  they  could  see  no  joy  in  life,  the  clouds  were 
heavy  over  them;  but  when  the  Hawaiians  arrived  on  the  shores 
of  Japan  with  their  cheer,  with  their  great  love,  and  their  music, 
the  darkest  of  the  clouds  fled  and  light  came  through;  their  souls 
were  touched  with  a  new  interest  in  life. 

I  attended  a  meeting  on  the  island  of  Lanai,  an  island  that 
stands  out  prominent  in  the  history  of  Hawaii  and  the  Church. 
Time  will  not  permit  to  give  you  the  story.  At  one  time  in  Hawaii 
in  1858  when  the  missionaries  were  all  called  forth  because  of  the 
Johnston  Army  trouble  coming  into  Utah,  a  condition  existed  in 
Hawaii  whereby  the  Church  was  practically  destroyed.  The  Saints 
endeavored  to  buy  the  Island  of  Lanai.  An  unscrupulous  man  by 
the  name  of  Walter  M.  Gibson,  cheated  the  natives  out  of  the 
land  which  was  being  purchased  by  the  Church.  The  great  grand- 
father of  Elder  Benson,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  W.  W. 
Cluff,  and  Alma  L.  Smith  were  called  to  go  back  to  Hawaii  to 
reorganize  the  mission  and  establish  again  proper  leadership.  In 
later  years  the  island  was  sold  to  the  Hawaiian  Pineapple  Company. 
At  the  present  time  3500  people  live  upon  that  island.  We  en- 
deavored to  establish  a  meeting  place  over  there.  We  sent  our 
missionaries  to  that  island.  A  little  over  three  years  ago  they  gave 
us  a  six  months  probation  period  and  we  have  built  a  meetinghouse, 
helped  by  the  plantation,  and  we  established  a  nice  little  branch 
where  we  put  our  elders  to  labor.  In  that  length  of  time  we  had 
gained  the  respect  of  the  Hawaiian  Pineapple  Company.  They  are 
very  generous  to  us.  We  have  a  nice  meeting  house,  a  recreation 
hall  free,  and  our  light  and  water  free.  They  furnished  us  paint 
that  we  might  paint  the  building  and  maintain  it.  So  we  have  taken 
a  pride  in  our  lot  and  we  have  nice  flowers  and  a  beautiful  lawn 
which  is  a  credit  to  the  Church.  In  my  last  meeting  on  Lanai  we 
had  145  present,  Hawaiians,  43;  Japanese,  31;  Philippinos,  39;  Chi- 
nese, 10;  Koreans,  9;  Portugese,  2;  and  our  whites  who  were  mainly 
missionaries,  11.  To  mingle  with  the  peoples  of  Hawaii  who  as- 
sociate together  as  one,  and  when  you  labor  among  them,  they  are 
no  longer  Japanese,  Koreans'  Philippinos,  Hawaiians;  they  are  chil- 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  September  29  First  Day 

dren  of  God,  brothers  and  sisters,  who  have  that  same  feeling  in 
their  souls  that  we  have  who  are  assembled  here  in  this  holy  house. 

Much  work  is  being  done  at  the  present  time  among  the 
Philippino  peoples  and  when  you  get  to  know  them  and  understand 
them,  you  will  find  that  they  have  the  same  sweet  feelings  in  their 
hearts  that  the  Hawaiians  have.  They  are  very  generous  in  their 
natures.  Over  in  Pahalla,  the  farthest  place  south  on  the  big  island 
of  Hawaii,  most  of  the  people  in  that  little  branch  are  Philippines, 
and  when  we  held  our  little  meeting  there  and  bade  them  farewell 
and  could  see  their  eyes  fill  with  tears  and  their  cheeks  moistened 
we  felt  to  thank  God  that  we  had  had  the  privilege  and  joy  of  as- 
sociating with  His  children,  though  they  have  not  had  the  privilege 
we  have  had. 

At  our  farewell  social  and  our  meeting  in  the  Temple,  the  land 
of  my  birth,  ( I  was  born  in  Laie ) ,  after  the  talk,  Brother  Kanahele, 
the  first  counselor  in  the  presidency  of  the  Temple,  said,  "President 
Smith,  you  have  hurt  our  feelings." 

I  said,  "What  did  I  say?  What  did  I  do  to  hurt  your  feelings?" 

He  said,  "You  have  been  released  and  you  are  returning  home." 
He  said,  "This  is  your  home  and  therefore  you  have  hurt  our  feel- 
ings." 

From  then  on  I  remembered  that,  and  so,  I,  in  our  farewell 
meeting  mentioned  the  fact  that  I  was  leaving  the  land  of  my  birth 
and  returning  to  my  adopted  land,  and  thus  they  seemed  to  be 
pleased. 

We  have  listened  to  President  Cowley's  talk,  his  feelings  to- 
ward Polynesia.  Sister  Smith  and  I  know  how  he  feels.  Our 
hearts  are  out  there  in  Hawaii.  When  I  see  our  beloved  sisters, 
Abbie  and  Kamaile,  here,  stalwart  in  the  Church — I  have  known 
them  for  many  years — how  pleased  I  am  that  they  are  here  with 
us. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  us  and  may  the  Lord  sustain  us 
and  give  us  courage  to  stand  for  the  right  and  above  all,  that  when 
we  sustain  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  by  raising  our 
hands,  may  we  be  sincere  and  honest  in  that  privilege  that  is  ours 
to  sustain  them,  and  when  they  give  us  counsel  that  might  be  con- 
trary to  a  feeling  that  we  have  within  our  hearts,  let's  uphold  them 
and  sustain  them,  because  they  are  inspired  of  God  and  they  are 
prophets  of  the  Lord.  May  the  Lord  sustain  us  and  bless  us  in 
this  and  give  us  courage  to  do  that  which  is  right,  is  my  humble 
prayer  and  I  pray  for  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  E.  Wesley  Smith,  former  Presi- 
dent of  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing  "He  That 
Keepeth  Israel." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


51 


The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Edward  S. 
Burgess,  Alpine  Stake,  Utah,  after  which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow.  The  proceedings  of  that 
session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  stations  named  in  the  first 
session  of  the  Conference,  and  will  be  televised  over  the  KSL 
television  station,  channel  five. 

Tonight  at  seven  o'clock  here  in  the  Tabernacle  there  will  be 
a  meeting  of  ward  bishoprics  and  others  as  listed  in  the  published 
announcement,  under  the  direction  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Important  calls  and  messages  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the 
dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds. 

The  Choir  music  for  today  has  been  furnished  by  the  Combined 
Chorus  of  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cache  Region  and  Salt  Lake 
City  Stakes,  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Mad- 
sen,  with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  ought  not  to  close  this  meeting  without  expressing  the 
gratitude  which  we  have  for  the  Singing  Mothers  and  Sister  Mad- 
sen,  for  the  excellent  music  which  they  have  furnished  to  us.  There 
has  been  a  spirit  and  soul  in  it  that  does  not  always  attach  to  great 
choruses.    May  the  Lord  bless  them  always. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers:  "He  That 
Keepeth  Israel." 

Closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Edward  S.  Burgess 
of  the  Alpine  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday  morning,  September  30th, 
at  10:00  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10:00  a.m., 
Saturday,  September  30. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided. 
President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, at  the  request  of  President  Smith,  conducted  these  services. 

The  Deseret  Stake  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  Elder  Ladd 
R.  Cropper,  furnished  the  choir  music  for  this  session.  Elder  Roy 
M.  Darley,  Assistant  Tabernacle  organist,  was  at  the  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  now  ready  to  open  the  third  session  of  the  One  Hundred 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

Twenty-first  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

Presiding  at  this  session  is  President  George  Albert  Smith, 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
conducting,  at  President  Smith's  request,  is  David  O.  McKay,  his 
second  counselor. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference.  This  session 
will  also  be  televised  over  KSL  television  station,  channel  five. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  the  Deseret 
Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  director,  and  Elder  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the  Deseret  Stake  Choir  sing- 
ing: "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  after  which  the  opening  prayer  will 
be  offered  by  President  Reed  H.  Beckstead  of  the  East  Jordan  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  the  hymn  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Reed  H.  Beck- 
stead  of  the  East  Jordan  Stake. 

The  Choir  then  sang  "Spirit  of  God." 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  before  you  this 
morning  to  add  my  testimony  to  those  that  have  already  been  given 
you  in  this  conference,  I  seek  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 
I  pray  that  what  I  say  may  be  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  that 
out  of  it' may  possibly  come  a  word  of  encouragement  for  some  of 
us;  for  my  sole  purpose,  in  ministering  as  I  am  called  to  do  to  the 
seventies  and  to  the  Church  generally  is  to  be  helpful,  to  stimulate 
if  I  can  the  faith  and  the  courage  of  the  members  of  the  Church. 

It  has  been  very  wisely  said  that  he  who  carries  a  lantern  to 
light  the  pathway  of  his  brother  sees  more  clearly  his  own.  I  must 
confess  that  in  trying  to  encourage  others,  I  gain  courage,  strength, 
and  faith.  It  is  in  a  spirit  of  love  that  I  minister  and  help  those  that 
need  it,  if  I  can,  realizing  at  the  same  time  that  I  get  joy  and  satis- 
faction out  of  it. 

Visit  to  Canadian  Mission 

Only  a  week  ago  Sister  Ivins  and  I  returned  from  a  visit  to 
the  Canadian  Mission,  where  we  had  the  privilege  of  listening  to 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


53 


the  testimonies  of  almost  160  of  your  sons  and  daughters;  where  we 
heard  their  expressions  of  faith  and  their  determination  to  carry 
on  and  further  the  work  to  which  they  have  been  called  in  the 
service  of  God.  It  was  our  purpose  to  encourage  and  to  stimulate 
them  in  their  faith,  to  help  if  we  could,  to  surmount  any  obstacles 
that  had  presented  themselves  to  them.  Also,  it  was  our  purpose 
to  encourage  the  members  of  the  Church  in  that  area,  to  help  them. 

I  was  very  pleased  to  discover  what  I  think  is  an  awakening 
among  the  people  of  that  area.  In  some  of  the  meetings  we  had 
more  investigators  than  members,  after  excluding  the  missionaries. 
Rather  large  groups  of  investigators  were  present.  In  some  sections 
we  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  people  of  Jewish  ancestry  who 
have  come  into  the  Church.  That  and  other  experiences  that  I 
have  had  in  other  missions  of  the  Church  seem  to  indicate  to  me 
that  there  is  an  awakening  of  interest  among  the  people  with  whom 
we  labor.  I  hope  it  is  real.  I  hope  it  is  an  indication  of  an  in- 
creasing faith  on  the  part  of  the  people  and  their  dependence  upon 
the  Lord  for  his  blessings.  I  hope  it  doesn't  come  from  fear  of 
the  present  conditions  that  prevail  in  the  world  but  rather  from  a 
sincere  desire  to  serve  God  and  enjoy  the  blessings  that  come  from 
the  companionship  of  his  Holy  Spirit. 

They  expect  in  the  Canadian  Mission  to  baptize  more  people 
than  they  did  last  year.  By  a  missionary  who  returned  the  other 
day  from  one  of  the  missions,  I  was  told  that  in  a  single  month  the 
missionaries  had  baptized  almost  as  many  people  as  in  some  previ- 
ous years  in  the  same  territory.  As  I  said,  I  hope  it  indicates  a  true 
increase  in  interest  and  desire  on  the  part  of  the  people  to  approach 
God  and  get  nearer  to  him.  And  I  hope  that  same  spirit  exists 
among  us  who  are  here  at  home.  I  wish  to  assure  the  fathers  and 
mothers  of  those  missionaries  in  the  Canadian  Mission  that  their 
leadership  is  good,  that  the  president  of  that  mission  has  only  the 
welfare  of  the  work  and  the  welfare  of  the  missionaries  at  heart, 
that  it  is  my  judgment  that  he  enjoys  the  Spirit  of  God  in  his  minis- 
try, that  his  wife  is  supporting  him  loyally  and  well.  The  mission- 
aries are  without  exception  in  the  enjoyment  of  health. 

Need  for  Faith 

This  is  a  time  when  we  need  faith,  faith  of  a  very  definite  and 
positive  nature,  the  faith  that  will  lead  us  to  optimism.  I  believe 
that  pessimism  grows  out  of  a  lack  of  faith,  and  that  if  we  have  the 
right  type  of  faith,  we  will  be  optimistic  about  the  future.  It  may  be 
true  that  the  immediate  future  may  have  difficulties  for  us,  but  I 
feel  that  out  of  it  all  will  grow  a  realization  of  the  purposes  of  God. 
And  it  should  be  our  purpose  to  develop  and  maintain  in  our  hearts, 
if  we  can,  faith  in  God  and  in  the  ultimate  consummation  of  his 
purposes — a  faith  that  will  unite  us  in  a  solid,  coherent  group.  We 
must,  of  course,  in  order  to  do  that,  develop  faith  in  each  other. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Day 

Without  that  faith  we  are  not  likely  to  go  far  in  promoting  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  We  must  have  a  faith  that  will  encourage  our 
returning  missionaries.  I  find  as  I  interview  them,  that  they  are 
uncertain.  They  don't  know  just  what  is  going  to  happen  to  them 
because  of  present  chaotic  conditions,  but  we  must  try  to  develop 
in  their  hearts  faith  and  reliance  on  God  that  will  enable  them  to 
plan  as  they  would  like  to  plan,  and  then  carry  on  even  though 
those  plans  may  be  temporarily  interrupted;  the  faith  that  will  lead 
us  to  the  ultimate  consummation  of  the  purposes  of  God,  faith  that 
will  help  us  to  cooperate,  that  out  of  cooperation  may  come  strength. 
If  we  could  properly  unite  our  efforts,  all  of  our  temporal  difficulties 
could  be  overcome,  I  am  sure.  If  and  when  we  overcome,  it  will 
be  only  because  we  unite  in  our  purpose  through  faith  in  each  other. 

Results  of  Cooperation 

I  want  to  tell  you  a  very  pretty  little  thing  that  I  once  saw  that 
illustrates  the  result  of  cooperation.  Most  of  you  know  that  I  spent 
a  time  in  Mexico.  One  time  as  I  was  riding  on  a  cold,  frosty  morn- 
ing through  the  Sierra  Madre  Mountains,  I  ran  on  to  a  little  covey 
of  Messina  partridges.  It  was  cold,  and  they  got  together  for  self- 
protection.  I  noticed  that  each  one  of  those  birds  had  spread  his 
wings,  and  they  had  so  intertwined  them  that  their  bodies  were 
completely  covered  as  a  shield  from  the  frost  and  the  cold;  only 
their  heads  stuck  up  above  that  covering.  And  they  survived.  With- 
out that  united  effort  of  self-protection,  they  might  have  succumbed 
to  the  weather.  But  with  it,  they  came  through  in  comfort,  I  am 
sure. 

Now  if  we  could  so  put  out  our  arms  and  shield  each  other,  if 
we  could  so  support  each  other  through  the  faith  that  we  should 
have  in  each  other,  then  all  the  righteous  purposes  of  God  as  far 
as  this  group  of  people  is  concerned,  I  am  sure,  could  be  realized. 
Can  we  develop  that  faith?  I  think  we  should;  I  think  it  could 
come  as  a  result  of  a  positive  effort  on  our  part. 

Improvements  Noted 

I  have  been  checking  the  records  of  the  various  stakes  that  I 
have  visited  all  this  year,  and  in  many  respects  I  notice,  as  com- 
pared with  previous  years,  that  there  is  a  better  condition  indicated 
in  those  reports,  the  condition  of  greater  faith.  There  are  some 
items  that  show  slipping,  but  many  of  them  show  improvement  in 
the  stakes  that  I  have  visited.  The  use  of  liquor  and  tobacco  seems 
to  be  decreasing,  if  I  can  trust  those  statistics.  The  number  of  peo- 
ple who  hold  family  prayers  seems  to  be  on  the  increase.  The  num- 
ber of  people,  the  percentage  of  those  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
who  observe  the  Sabbath  seems  to  be  on  the  increase.  I  noticed  in 
a  stake  that  I  visited  recently  that  the  attendance  at  sacrament  meet- 
ing has  been  on  a  steady  increase,  showing  a  rising  curve  over  the 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


55 


last  few  years.  I  hope  that  these  indications  are  real,  that  they 
show  a  real  determination  on  our  part  to  live  closer  to  God  and 
serve  him  better. 

Strive  for  Perfection 

I  love  this  service;  I  love  the  people.  I  am  always  encouraged 
when  I  see  these  signs  of  faith  on  their  part.  We're  never  perfect — 
we  will  never  be  perfect — but  we  should  strive  for  perfection,  and 
the  development  of  faith  is  the  thing  that  will  bring  it.  My  faith 
prompts  me  to  believe  that  God  has  a  design  for  the  world  that 
he  expects  us  to  realize.  And  the  best  way  for  us  to  do  that  is  to 
pay  attention  to  today.  Yesterday  has  gone.  It  will  never  come 
back.  Today  is  always  with  us  so  long  as  we  live.  Tomorrow  is 
a  hope  only,  so  today  we  must  look  to  ourselves,  to  our  behavior, 
look  to  our  faith  in  ourselves  and  in  God.  If  we  are  satisfied  with 
it,  all  well  and  good!  If  we  are  not,  let's  increase  it.  Let's  make  such 
changes  in  our  program  and  in  our  attitudes  that  will  increase  that 
faith.  I  have  said  we  should  have  faith  in  each  other.  We  should 
have  faith  in  our  leadership,  in  the  ward,  in  the  stake,  in  the  gen- 
eral officers  of  the  Church.  I  stand  here  to  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  in  all  my  associations  with  the  leadership  of  the  Church  above 
me,  I  have  seen  nothing  but  honest  purpose.  Let's  try  and  develop 
that  type  of  faith.  Let's  develop  a  loyalty  to  the  organization  that 
will  prompt  us  to  live  its  standards.  Overcoming  the  temptations 
of  the  world  and  living  the  standards  of  the  Church  should  be  a 
matter  of  loyalty  to  us,  a  matter  of  self-discipline.  We  should  take 
pride  in  ourselves  that  we  can  live  the  will  of  the  Church,  whether 
we  always  know  the  reason  for  it  or  not.  It  is  my  feeling  and  my 
testimony  that  out  of  the  inspiration  of  God  which  comes  to  these 
brethren,  comes  a  policy  for  the  Church  that  is  wise  and  well- 
designed,  that  will  be  for  the  welfare  and  the  progress  of  every 
man  and  every  woman  that  will  follow  it. 

May  God  g^ive  us  this  faith  in  ourselves,  faith  in  those  who 
lead  us,  faith  in  our  ultimate  destiny  that  will  enable  us  to  carry 
on,  without  misgivings  and  without  fear,  into  the  future;  that  will 
enable  us  to  carve  out  our  destiny;  that  will  ultimately  bring  us 
back  to  the  presence  of  God  in  exaltation,  I  pray,  and  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

I  have  paid  particular  attention  in  this  conference  to  the  prayers 
that  have  been  offered.  They  have  been  indeed  a  good  example 
for  all  of  us  to  follow.  I  hope  that  I  will  receive  in  turn  my  full 
share  of  prayers  asked  in  behalf  of  those  who  take  part  here  in  this 
conference  as  I  am  sure  those  who  have  preceded  me  have  received. 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Day 

In  the  beginning,  as  Adam  and  Eve  were  driven  out  of  the  Garden 
of  Eden,  they  were  shut  out  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord,  but 
the  Lord  did  not  expect  them  to  be  without  some  contact  with  him. 
That  one  avenue  he  left  open  for  man  to  reach  God  while  in  this 
life  of  mortality  was  prayer;  so  Adam  called  upon  God,  and  he 
received  guidance  in  all  things.  Neither  does  God  expect  us  to  get 
along  without  his  help.  Throughout  the  Old  and  New  Testaments 
and  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  Lord  gave  instructions  to  pray  con- 
stantly. The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  filled  with  like  exhorta- 
tions. The  disciples  asked  the  Savior  on  one  occasion,  "Lord, 
teach  us  to  pray." 

Pray  to  Father 

Among  other  things  the  Lord  said,  "Pray  to  our  Father  in 
heaven."  And  herein,  I  think  that  we  need  to  be  careful,  because 
very  often  we  open  our  prayer  with  the  expression  of  praying  to 
our  Father  in  heaven,  then  during  the  prayer  we  use  the  term 
"Lord,"  and  before  we  are  through  it  is  hard  to  tell  whether  we 
are  addressing  the  Father  or  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  We  should 
pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven,  for  he  is  indeed  the  Father  of  all 
mankind  on  the  earth,  and  because  he  is  our  Father,  he  wants  us 
to  come  to  him  often  with  our  joys  and  our  sorrows  and  thank 
him  for  all  that  he  has  given  us.  Then  the  Savior  gave  us  a  good 
suggestive  sample  of  the  things  to  pray  for  and  how  to  pray.  (See 
Luke  11:1-2.) 

As  Jesus  told  his  Disciples,  our  Father  in  heaven  knows  what 
we  are  in  need  of  before  we  start;  yet  he  has  commanded  us  to 
pray.  He  wants  us  to  be  thoughtful  of  others  as  we  are  of  our- 
selves. "Forgive  us  as  we  forgive  our  debtors."  He  did  not  intend 
that  we  should  always  use  the  exact  words  that  he  gave  in  the 
sample  or  to  use  pre-written  prayers.  In  so  doing  we  would  become 
as  those  Christ  referred  to  when  he  said,  "They  draw  near  to  me 
with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me,"  Do  you  think 
Joseph  Smith  would  have  received  that  wonderful  manifestation 
if  he  had  simply  read  a  prayer?  How  much  of  our  heart  goes  into 
a  prayer  of  that  nature?  How  much  faith  can  we  exercise  with 
words  and  thoughts  that  are  not  our  own?  Prayer  without  faith 
is  dead,  and  if  we  add  to  the  faith  which  President  Ivins  has  just 
spoken  to  us  about,  that  prayer,  I'm  sure  will  have  results,  and 
we'll  have  an  increase  of  the  statistics  President  Ivins  has  referred 
to  in  actual  fact  and  continue  as  such. 

Be  in  Tune 

We  do  not  read  our  prayers  in  this  Church,  but  some  of  us  get 
in  almost  as  bad  a  rut.  We  are  so  bound  by  set  words  and  phrases 
at  times  that  we  hardly  remember  what  we  are  saying.  We  must 
have  a  spirit  of  deep  humility,  of  repentance,  an  open  mind,  to 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


57 


receive  the  will  of  God.  We  must  not  be  hampered  by  any  anger 
or  meanness  or  hardness  of  heart,  or  any  selfish  desires.  We  must 
tune  our  minds  and  our  hearts  to  the  Spirit  of  God  just  as  we  tune 
our  radio  to  receive  the  program  from  the  broadcasting  station.  We 
want  no  interfering  static  from  outside  influences.  In  the  attitude 
of  true  repentance  we  should  seek  forgiveness  of  our  past  mistakes 
and  guidance  for  improvement.  I  like  the  little  poem  used  so  much 
in  our  home: 

To  say  my  prayer  is  not  to  pray, 
Unless  I  mean  the  words  I  say, 
Unless  I  think  to  whom  I  speak, 
And  with  my  heart  his  favor  seek. 

Then  let  me,  when  I  come  to  pray, 
Not  only  mean  the  words  I  say, 
But  let  me  strive  with  earnest  care, 
To  have  my  heart  go  with  my  prayer. 

Sincerity  of  Children 

Unless  our  whole  heart  is  in  what  we  are  doing,  we  are  not 
really  praying.  A  child  is  naturally  sincere  and  can  be  taught  to 
pray  almost  with  its  first  words.  His  own  private  prayer  should 
become  a  habit  never  to  be  broken.  If  he  greets  the  day  with  a 
prayer  for  guidance  and  help,  if  he  goes  to  sleep  with  a  prayer  of 
thanksgiving,  more  than  half  the  battle  is  won  in  trying  to  do  right. 
The  Lord  tells  us  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sixty-eighth  sec- 
tion, twenty-eighth  verse: 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord. 

Children  will  learn  more  from  observation  than  they  ever  will 
from  just  being  told.  If  parents  have  a  prayerful  attitude,  the 
children  are  more  than  likely  to  have  the  same.  Family  prayer 
cannot  be  too  highly  praised.  In  no  other  way  can  we  obtain  such 
a  spirit  of  unity,  nor  is  there  any  better  place  for  the  child  to 
learn  to  pray  in  public.  The  Lord  also  tells  us  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  nineteenth  section  and  twenty-eighth  verse: 

And  again,  I  command  thee  that  thou  shalt  pray  vocally  as  well  as 
in  thy  heart;  yea,  before  the  world  as  well  as  in  secret,  in  public  as  well 
as  in  private." 

Family  Prayer 

It  is  surprising  how  soon  a  child  can  take  his  turn  in  family  prayer, 
and  just  think  of  the  good  that  comes  to  the  family.  If  we  kneel 
down  together  and  unitedly  thank  God  for  his  many  blessings; 
pray  for  guidance,  for  peace  and  love  in  our  hearts;  if  we  pray  for 
others  who  are  in  need;  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work  here; 
can  it  help  but  make  our  home  a  better  place?    Can  we  help  but 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

be  more  thoughtful  of  others,  more  kind  and  loving?  A  man  and 
wife  who  will  pray  together  and  pray  vocally  will  have  more  love 
and  contentment  in  their  home.  If  we  would  learn  to  call  upon 
God  more  often,  we  should  not  have  to  call  upon  the  divorce  courts 
so  much.  Teach  your  children  the  one  source  of  strength  that 
will  never  fail  them.  Help  them  to  realize  that  they  have  an  ever- 
lasting friend,  one  that  they  can  call  upon  when  their  hearts  are 
filled  with  joy  as  well  as  when  they  are  filled  with  doubt  or  sadness 
or  despair.  Then  when  they  have  grown  up  and  are  on  their 
own,  living  at  home,  away  at  school,  or  in  the  far-flung  battlefields 
of  war,  they  have  God  as  their  partner;  they  are  not  afraid.  This 
would  bring  peace,  happiness,  and  joy.  A  sin-sick  world  could  be 
lifted  from  its  depths  if  we  could  only  turn  to  the  Lord  in  prayer. 
What  more  could  we  do  for  our  children?  I  pronounce  the  blessings 
of  God  upon  all  who  humbly  seek  him  in  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  is  indeed  a  humbling  experience — to  occupy  this  position. 
I  do,  therefore,  ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  and  that 
the  Spirit  of  God  might  rest  down  upon  me. 

More  than  two  thousand  years  ago  an  ancient  Hebrew  proph- 
et, speaking  for  the  Lord,  said, 

Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein 
have  we  robbed  thee?  In  tithes  and  offerings.  (Malachi  3:8.) 

Faith  Exhibited 

During  the  past  five  and  one-half  years  since  I  was  made  a 
member  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  I  have  had  the  wonder- 
ful experience  and  opportunity  to  travel  throughout  the  stakes  of 
Zion  and  in  the  mission  fields,  I  have  observed  with  much  joy  the 
great  amount  of  faith  expressed  and  exhibited  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Thousands  and  thousands  of  them  are  paying  their  full 
tithes  and  offerings  to  the  Lord,  contributing  in  the  welfare  pro- 
grams, sending  their  sons  and  daughters  into  the  mission  fields, 
and  in  practically  all  respects  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  are  doing  all  of  those  things  and  much  more  because  they 
know  that  God  lives;  they  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  the 
Savior  of  the  world;  they  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God  and  that  the  true  gospel  has  been  restored  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  our  day. 

I  have  ofttimes  felt  that  I  am  sure  God  is  pleased  with  the 
Church  in  general  and  with  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
particular. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


59 


Law  of  Tithing 

On  the  other  hand,  however,  I  have  also  observed  that  there 
are  certain  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — and  possibly  thousands  of  them — who  are  fulfilling  Mala- 
chi's  prophecy  or  prediction  at  the  present  time.  They  are  robbing 
God  in  tithes  and  offerings.  I've  ofttimes  thought  and  have  even 
expressed  the  idea  that  I  believe  that  practically  all  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  if  they  understood 
the  law  of  tithing,  thoroughly;  that  is,  if  they  knew  the  will  of  God 
in  this  respect  and  especially  if  they  could  be  taught  to  know  of  and 
appreciate  the  great  spiritual  blessings  which  would  be  received 
as  a  result  of  rendering  obedience  to  this  law,  they  would  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings  to  the  Lord  in  full.  I  have  suggested  in  priest- 
hood leadership  meetings  as  I  have  traveled  throughout  the  Church 
that  the  leaders  of  the  stakes,  presidents  of  quorums,  bishops,  and 
stake  presidencies  endeavor  to  teach  the  people  the  law  of  tithing. 

Yet  I  also  recognize  the  fact  that  there  are  certain  ones  in  the 
Church  who  would  argue  against  the  law.  They  might  say,  "But, 
Brother  Hunter,  you  quoted  Malachi,  and  he  lived  four  hundred 
years  before  the  Savior  lived.  He  was  a  Hebrew  prophet  and  was 
talking  to  the  Jews.   Would  his  teachings  apply  to  us?" 

I  would  answer,  "Yes,  I  know  that  he  was  a  Hebrew  prophet. 
He  was  talking  to  the  Jews,  and  yet  his  teachings  would  apply 
definitely  to  us.  Why?  Because  he  was  giving  us  the  will  of 
God — the  absolute  mind  and  words  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  which 
he  had  been  commanded  to  teach. 

Law  Given  to  Nephites 

Now  why  can  I  be  so  definite  on  that  point?  Because  of  an 
event  that  took  place  after  the  resurrection  of  the  Savior.  The 
ressurected  Lord  appeared  to  the  Nephites  here  on  this  continent. 
He  taught  them  the  same  gospel  plan  that  he  had  given  to  the  Jews 
while  in  mortality.    On  one  occasion  he  said  to  them, 

After  you  people  left  Jerusalem  a  great  prophet  of  God  came  among 
the  Jews  and  my  Father  commanded  him  to  teach  the  people  certain 
things,  and  since  you  haven't  a  record  of  what  that  prophet  taught,  I 
have  received  instructions  from  the  Father  to  tell  you  what  Malachi 
taught.  (See  III  Nephi  24:1.) 

So  he  gave  them  the  teachings  of  Malachi  and  he  asked  them 
to  write  those  teachings  down.  After  this  had  been  done,  he  ex- 
plained to  them  all  that  Malachi  had  taught. 

He  quoted  the  exact  words  of  Malachi, 

Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say:  Wherein 
have  we  robbed  thee?  In  tithes  and  offerings.  (Ibid.,  24:8.) 

Now  since  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the 
great  Judge,  the  Redeemer,  the  very  One  under  whom  the  gospel 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

came  to  us,  the  gospel  being  named  after  him;  then  certainly  when 
he  says  that  these  teachings  on  tithing  are  the  doctrine  and  will  of 
his  Father,  those  teachings  would  apply  to  us. 

Tithing  Revealed  Anew 

Furthermore,  a  hundred  years  ago  and  a  little  more,  the  Lord 
revealed  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  As 
part  of  that  great  restoration  was  the  restoration  of  the  principle 
of  tithing.  In  a  revelation  to  the  Church  the  Lord  said  that  this 
commandment  would  be  an  everlasting  law  unto  the  priesthood  of 
the  Church.  (D.  &  C.  119:4.)  It  is,  therefore,  a  law  that  you  and  I 
must  obey  if  we  expect  to  receive  the  blessings  that  God  has  in 
store  for  those  who  love  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

Experience  at  Interview 

I  would  like  to  relate  a  little  experience  that  I  had  about  a  year 
ago.  A  young  man  came  into  my  office  to  be  interviewed  to  be 
ordained  a  seventy.  I  asked  him  if  he  would  like  to  be  a  seventy. 
His  face  lighted  up  with  joy;  and  he  said,  "Yes,  Brother  Hunter, 
for  a  long  time  I  have  wanted  to  become  a  seventy.  I  have  never 
been  recommended  before,  but  I  do  hope  that  I  am  now  worthy. 
I  do  hope  that  you  ordain  me  a  seventy  today." 

After  I  got  this  gush  of  enthusiasm  from  him,  I  asked  him  a 
question  rather  point-blank.  I  said,  "Would  you  steal  $150.00 
from  your  neighbor?"  A  look  of  indignation  came  over  his  face. 
If  I  could  have  read  his  thoughts,  he  probably  would  have  been 
thinking,  "Well,  you  have  your  nerve,  Brother  Hunter,  to  think 
that  I  would  steal." 

Finally  he  looked  at  me  and  said,  "No,  sir." 

I  wasn't  exactly  satisfied,  and  so  I  said,  "Would  you  steal  a 
cow  from  your  neighbor?" 

He  shot  back  this  reply  instantly,  "I  wouldn't  steal  thirty-five 
cents  from  my  neighbor." 

I  remarked,  "This  is  very,  very  interesting  to  me,  that  you 
wouldn't  steal  thirty-five  cents  from  your  neighbor;  and  yet,  you 
would  rob  God." 

A  questioning  look  came  over  his  face,  and  he  asked,  "What 
do  you  mean?    I  don't  understand  you." 

Thereupon  I  turned  his  recommendation  card  over  and  read 
these  words,  "Part  tithepayer." 

He  looked  at  me  rather  flushed,  and  I  might  say,  turned  a  little 
red,  twisted  around  in  his  chair  a  little,  and  finally  he  said  to  me, 
"Well,  I  guess  it's  this  way,  Brother  Hunter:  the  Lord  isn't  here 
to  check  up  on  me.  My  neighbor  is.  If  I  robbed  my  neighbor, 
he  would  put  me  in  jail." 

I  replied,  "Brother,  you  are  partly  right  and  partly  wrong.  Cer- 
tainly your  neighbor  would  put  you  in  jail  if  you  robbed  him.  He 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


61 


should  put  you  in  jail,  but  when  you  got  out  of  jail,  your  neighbor 
would  have  no  more  influence  or  claim  on  you.  You  would  have 
paid  your  debt.  But  God  also  is  checking  up  on  us,  and  we  are 
working  with  him  for  eternal  life.  He  declares  that  eternal  life 
is  the  greatest  gift  he  has  in  store  for  man,  and  it  is  reserved  for 
those  that  love  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  To  receive  eternal 
life  in  the  presence  of  God  would  be  worth  more  than  all  the  money 
in  the  world."  And  I  continued  by  saying:  "Now  it  is  my  opin- 
ion and  feeling  that  if  you  or  I  or  any  other  Latter-day  Saint  feels 
that  he  must  rob  somebody,  I  think  probably  it  would  be  far  better 
to  rob  our  neighbor  than  to  rob  God." 

He  replied,  "Well,  I've  never  thought  of  it  that  way  before." 

And  then  I  asked,  "What  are  you  going  to  do  in  the  future?" 

"I  am  going  to  be  a  full  tithepayer,"  came  quickly  the  positive 
and  unqualified  answer. 

I  was  delighted  that  he  took  that  attitude  because  he  now  under- 
stood more  about  the  law  of  tithing  and  had  reached  a  determina- 
tion to  obey  it  in  the  future. 

Covenant  to  Obey 

We  are  told  by  the  prophets  of  God  that  the  earth  is  the 
Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof;  that  you  and  I  are  merely  stewards, 
merely  landlords,  so  to  speak.  Our  rent  is  one-tenth  of  all  that 
we  earn.  Yesterday,  in  a  very  beautiful  way,  Brother  McConkie 
spoke  of  a  covenant  with  God.  Every  one  of  us  has  entered  into 
a  covenant  with  God  to  the  effect  that  we  will  pay  one-tenth  of  all 
that  we  earn  to  the  Lord.  When  we  entered  the  waters  of  baptism 
and  became  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  we  accepted  all  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  including  the 
principle  of  tithing. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  law  of  tithing  in  order  that  he 
might  test  our  honesty.  When  we  use  any  portion  of  God's  one- 
tenth,  we  are  robbing  him. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  law  of  tithing  in  order  that  he  might 
test  our  love  for  him.  He  has  declared  that  if  we  love  him  we  will 
keep  his  commandments;  therefore,  to  the  extent  that  we  pay  a 
full  tithing,  to  that  extent  we  have  given  tangible  evidence  that  we 
do  love  the  Lord  our  God. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  law  of  tithing  to  test  our  obedience. 
The  purpose  is  to  see  if  we  will  be  faithful  in  all  things  that  God 
commandeth  us. 

Furthermore,  the  Lord  has  given  us  the  law  of  tithing  to  test 
our  preparedness  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  enter  exaltation. 

Teachings  of  Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  prophets  of  God  have  taught  the  things  I  have  been  men- 
tioning here  this  morning.   I  would  like  to  quote  from  the  teachings 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

of  one  of  the  great  prophets  in  our  day,  the  Prophet  Joseph  F. 
Smith.    He  said  in  regard  to  tithing,  this: 

By  this  principle  (tithing)  the  loyalty  of  the  people  of  the  Church 
shall  be  put  to  the  test.  By  this  principle  it  shall  be  known  who  is  for 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  who  is  against  it.  By  this  principle  it  shall  be 
seen  whose  hearts  are  set  on  doing  the  will  of  God  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments; thereby  sanctifying  the  land  of  Zion  unto  God,  and  who  are 
opposed  to  this  principle  and  have  cut  themselves  off  from  the  blessings 
of  Zion.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  importance  connected  with  this  principle, 
for  by  it  ye  shall  know  whether  we  are  faithful  or  unfaithful.  In  this 
respect,  it  is  just  as  essential  as  faith  in  God,  as  repentance  of  sin,  as 
baptism  for  the  remission  of  sin,  as  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  [As  you  recall,  the  Savior  said  that  "except  a  man 
have  these,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God."]  For  if  a  man  keep  all  the 
law  save  it  be  one  point,  and  he  offend  in  that,  he  is  a  transgressor  of 
the  law,  and  he  is  not  entitled  to  the  fulness  of  the  blessings  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  But  when  a  man  keeps  all  the  law  that  is  revealed,  ac- 
cording to  his  strength,  his  substance,  and  his  ability  though  what  he  does 
may  be  little,  it  is  just  as  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  God  as  if  he  were 
able  to  do  a  thousand  times  more.  (Joseph  F.  Smith,  Gospel  Doctrine, 
pp.  282-283.) 

President  Smith  also  made  this  statement: 

The  law  of  tithing  is  a  test  by  which  the  people  as  individuals  shall 
be  proved.  Any  man  who  fails  to  observe  this  principle  shall  be  known 
as  a  man  who  is  indifferent  to  the  welfare  of  Zion,  who  neglects  his  duty 
as  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  who  does  nothing  towards  the  accomp- 
lishment of  the  temporal  advancement  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  He  con- 
tributes nothing,  either,  towards  spreading  the  gospel  to  the  nations,  and 
he  neglects  to  do  that  which  would  entitle  him  to  receive  the  blessings 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  (Ibid.,  p.  283.) 

Could  the  Lord  have  established  or  could  he  now  establish 
another  way  to  take  care  of  the  economic  needs  of  the  Church?  I 
am  positive  that  he  could.  He  could  say,  "President  George  Albert 
Smith,  in  yonder  hill  or  mountain  there  is  a  great  deal  of  gold. 
Have  the  brethren  of  the  Church  mine  that  gold.  Use  the  money 
to  build  church  houses,  to  send  missionaries  out  in  the  mission  fields, 
to  take  care  of  all  the  other  needs  of  the  Church.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  faithful  in  the  past  in  paying  many  contributions, 
so  from  now  on  they  can  rest.  They  don't  have  to  pay  any  more 
money  to  the  Church." 

Blessings  to  Follow 

Certainly  he  could  do  that  if  he  wanted  to,  but  he  won't.  He 
is  too  wise  a  God  to  do  that.  He  recognizes  the  great  spiritual 
blessings  which  come  from  paying  tithing.  They  far  outweigh 
the  economic  blessings.  He  recognizes  that  "where  a  man's  treasure 
is,  there  his  heart  will  be  also."  He  recognizes  the  fact  that  if 
we  contribute  much  money  to  help  build  a  church  house,  we  might 
come  to  church  to  get  our  money's  worth.  He  recognizes  the  fact 
that  if  we  give  donation  after  donation  to  the  Church  for  various 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  63 


purposes,  our  contributions  tie  us  into  the  Church.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  we  own  part  of  it.  We  belong  there.  It  develops  us  spiritual- 
ly to  pay  on  welfare,  to  pay  tithes,  to  pay  fast  offerings,  to  pay  and 
pay  into  the  Church. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  blessing,  an  opportunity  in  your 
lives  and  in  my  life  to  have  the  privilege  of  paying  into  the  Church. 
It  helps  us  to  get  rid  of  the  selfishness  in  our  hearts.  It  makes  us 
love  each  other  more.  It  makes  us  love  God  more.  In  fact,  it 
makes  us  more  godly.  In  other  words,  tithing  is  a  spiritual  law 
which  God  has  given  us  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  us  to  come 
back  into  his  presence  and  receive  eternal  life.  Therefore,  his  course 
is  a  wise  course.  Every  wise  Latter-day  Saint  will  accept  it. 
Not  one  of  us  can  afford  to  be  part  tithepayers  nor  non-tithepayers. 
We  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

I  humbly  ask  our  Father  in  heaven  to  let  his  Spirit  rest  down 
upon  you  and  me  and  upon  every  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  whether  he  be  a  full  tithepayer  or  not; 
may  the  full  tithepayers  remain  full  tithepayers;  may  the  part- 
tithepayers  accept  this  principle  of  the  gospel  and  repent  of  their 
past  negligence.  By  doing  so  we  might  all  prepare  ourselves  to 
come  back  into  the  presence  of  God  and  receive  exaltation.  And 
for  this  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  sing- 
ing the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducted  the  singing. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  should  like  to  express  here  my  great 
love  and  admiration  for  President  George  F.  Richards  who  was 
with  us  in  our  last  conference  but  has  since  passed  away.  Of  all 
the  men  I  have  known  in  my  life,  none  has  risen  to  greater  heights, 
in  my  opinion,  than  Elder  George  F.  Richards  in  saintliness,  in 
vision,  in  understanding,  and  in  love,  humility,  and  power. 

Prayers  for  Lamanites 

I  was  glad  that  President  Beckstead  mentioned  in  his  prayer 
the  Lamanite  program.  I  thought,  as  he  was  praying,  "Wouldn't 
it  be  glorious  if  two  hundred  thousand  Latter-day  Saint  families 
every  morn  before  their  breakfast,  in  their  family  prayers,  were 
asking  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  among  the  Lamanites  might  be 
furthered;  and  if  those  same  two  hundred  thousand  families  might 
also  be  on  their  knees  before  they  retired  that  night  to  ask  again, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


among  other  things,  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  might  be  brought 
to  this  great  people?" 


The  Lord  has  devised  a  very  comprehensive  plan,  and  I  have 
a  firm  conviction  that  the  blueprint  that  he  worked  out  many  millen- 
nia ago  will  be  followed,  and  the  structure  will  be  built  in  accord- 
ance therewith. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  dedicated  the  Kirtland  Temple  in 
1836.  His  prayer,  which  he  stated  later  was  a  revelation  from 
the  Lord,  covered  many  matters,  and  in  it  he  made  this  statement: 

And  cause  that  the  remnants  of  Jacob,  who  have  been  cursed  and 
smitten  because  of  their  transgression,  be  converted  from  their  wild  and 
savage  condition  to  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  (D.  &  C. 


Our  Father  began  to  speak  through  the  mouths  of  prophets 
long  centuries  ago,  outlining  in  prophetic  words  the  history  of  those 
many  centuries  which  were  to  follow.  I'm  sure  that  he  inspired  a 
little  boy,  Christopher  Columbus,  to  stand  on  the  quays  in  Genoa, 
Italy,  and  yearn  for  the  sea.  He  was  filled  with  the  desire  to  sail 
the  seas,  and  he  fulfilled  a  great  prophecy  made  long,  long  ago,  that 
this  land,  chosen  above  all  other  lands,  should  be  discovered.  And 
so  when  he  was  mature,  opportunity  was  granted  to  him  to  brave 
the  unknown  seas,  to  find  this  land  which  had  been  cut  off  from 
the  rest  of  the  world  long  centuries,  and  to  open  the  door,  as  it 
were,  to  the  teaching  of  these  people  and  bringing  them  back  to 
their  Heavenly  Father. 

I  have  a  firm  conviction  that  the  Lord  led  the  Pilgrims  and  the 
Puritans  across  the  ocean,  perhaps  permitted  the  persecutions  that 
would  bring  them  here,  so  that  when  they  came  to  the  American 
shores  with  their  righteous  blood  and  their  high  ideals  and  stand- 
ards, they  would  form  the  basis  of  a  nation  which  would  make 
possible  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  I  am  sure  that  since  there 
was  not  religious  liberty,  not  political  liberty  here,  the  Lord  per- 
mitted these  few  poorly-armed  and  ill-clad  men  at  Valley  Forge 
and  elsewhere  to  defeat  a  great  army  with  its  trained  soldiery  and 
its  many  mercenaries,  a  few  against  the  many,  but  the  few  had  on 
their  side  the  Lord  God  of  heaven,  that  gave  them  victory.  And 
there  came  political  liberty  and  religious  liberty  with  it,  all  in 
preparation  for  the  day  when  a  young  boy  would  come  forth  and 
would  seek  and  make  contact  with  the  Lord  and  open  the  doors 
of  heaven  again.  Following  that  great  manifestation  to  Joseph  Smith 
came  the  opening  of  Cumorah  Hill  and  the  speaking  of  the  dead  from 
the  dust. 


Plan  Devised  by  the  Lord 


109:65.) 


Purposes  To  Be  Fulfilled 


I  am  sure  that  all  this  was  for  a  well-planned  purpose.  The 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  65 


Lord  knew  exactly  what  he  was  doing,  and  though  evil  forces  were 
at  play,  they  were  all  brought  to.  bow,  sO  that  the  purposes  of  the 
Almighty  would  be  fulfilled. 

I  should  like  to  quote  to  you  a  paragraph  from  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, stated  by  him  in  1873: 

I  am  looking  for  the  fulfilment  of  all  the  things  that  the  Lord  has 
spoken. 

For  long  centuries  the  Lord  has  said  how  this  chosen  people 
would  fall  into  transgression  and  how  some  centuries  after  Christ 
they  would  be  so  deep  in  sin  they  would  lose  the  faith,  and  that 
certain  ones  of  them  would  be  destroyed.  Now,  Brother  Woodruff 
says  he  knows  that  these  things  will  all  be  fulfilled, 

.  .  .  and  they  will  come  come  to  pass  as  the  Lord  lives.  Zion  is  bound 
to  rise  and  flourish.  The  Lamanites  will  blossom  as  the  rose  in  the  moun- 
tains. I  am  willing  to  say  here  that  although  I  believe  this,  when  I  see 
the  power  of  the  nation  destroying  them  from  the  face  of  the  earth, 
the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy  is  perhaps  harder  for  me  to  believe  than 
any  other  revelation  of  God  that  I  have  ever  read. 

Brother  Woodruff  lived  in  the  day  when  the  Lamanites  were 
being  destroyed.  They  were  the  "Vanishing  Americans"  at  that 
time,  and  they  were  being  persecuted  and  driven  and  killed  and 
reservationed  about  that  time  of  the  nation's  history.  He  continued: 

It  looks  as  though  there  would  not  be  enough  left  to  receive  the  gos- 
pel; but  notwithstanding  this  dark  picture,  every  word  that  God  has  ever 
said  of  them  will  have  its  fulfilment,  and  they,  by  and  by,  will  receive  the 
gospel.  It  will  be  .  a  day  of  God's  power  among  them  and  a  nation  will  be 
born  in  a  day.  The  chiefs  will  be  filled  with  the  power  of  God  and  will 
receive  the  gospel,  and  they  will  go  forth  and  build  the  New  Jerusalem, 
and  we  shall  help  them.  They  are  branches  of  the  House  of  Israel  and 
when  the  fulness  of  the  Gentiles  has  come  in  and  the  work  ceases  among 
them,  then  it  will  go  in  power  to  the  seed  of  Abraham. 

Work  Commenced 

We  are  given  to  understand  that  the  work  commenced  when 
the  book  came  forth,  for  in  Ether,  fourth  chapter,  we  read: 

Therefore,  when  ye  shall  receive  this  record  ye  may  know  that  the 
work  of  the  Father  has  commenced  upon  all  the  face  of  the  land.  (Ether 
4:17.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  us  the  thought  that  the  Lord 
brought  us  out  here  from  the  East  to  bring  the  gospel  to  the  Laman- 
ites. One  of  the  most  important  things  that  can  possibly  happen 
in  this  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  is  to  bring  to  the  La- 
manites a  knowledge  of  God.  He  says: 

.  .  .  there  will  be  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  will 
gather  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  there  they  will  open  the  door  for 
establishing  the  gospel  among  the  Lamanites,  who  will  receive  the  Gospel 
and  their  endowments  and  the  blessings  of  God. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30 


Second  Day 


Brigham  Young  seemed  to  catch  the  vision  of  it.  He  said  that 
the  Lord  could  not  have  devised  a  better  plan  than  to  put  us  where 
we  are  in  order  to  accomplish  that  very  thing  of  educating  and 
teaching  the  Lamanites.  Our  ancestors  came  a  thousands  miles 
across  the  desert,  under  terrific  persecutions  and  hardships,  to  lo- 
cate where  the  Gentiles  had  scattered  the  Lamanites.  They  had 
pretty  well  "reservationed"  them  here  in  the  western  states.  They 
were  in  our  every  county,  and  the  Lord  brought  us  out  here  that 
we  might  teach  them  the  gospel. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  that  work  has  continued  with  some  inter- 
ruptions through  the  century.  Now  the  Lord  has  made  another  step. 
It  seems  to  me  he  is  bringing  the  Lamanites  back  to  us.  They  were 
sent  onto  reservations  all  over  the  west,  and  now  the  largest,  the 
Navajo  Reservation,  will  not  support  its  people.  The  Navajos  are 
being  starved  out.  They  are  coming  back  among  us  into  the  beet 
and  cotton  fields,  on  the  railroads,  and  in  the  mines  to  find  employ- 
ment. They  are  coming  back  into  the  stakes  of  Zion  where  we  have 
stake  missions  and  where  we  have  thousands  of  good  Latter-day 
Saints  who  live  the  gospel,  and  thousands  of  devoted  stake  mission- 
aries who  will  teach  them  the  truth.  Here  is  our  great  opportunity. 
The  Lord  seems  to  have  planned  everything  for  our  sake.  If  we  fail 
our  opportunity,  I  am  sure  the  Lord  will  not  easily  forgive  us. 

Lamanite  Membership 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that  there  are  some  forty  thou- 
sand Lamanite  members  of  the  Church  in  the  world,  including  the 
islands  of  the  sea.  There  are  probably  ten  thousand  Lamanite  mem- 
bers in  North  America  in  the  Mexican  missions  and  the  Indian  mis- 
sion. There  are  902  Lamanite  members  in  the  English-speaking 
missions  in  the  Eastern,  Northern,  Central  States,  and  other  North 
American  missions.  And  this  work  has  gone  forward  splendidly 
under  some  of  our  mission  presidents.  We  have  baptized  1823  La- 
manites in  the  last  two-and-a-half  years  in  the  three  missions  that 
specialize  in  Lamanite  proselyting  in  North  America.  We  have 
baptized  480  Indians  down  in  the  little  Indian  mission,  with  a  token 
number  of  missionaries.  About  an  equal  number  have  been  blessed, 
children  under  eight  years  of  age  who  belong  to  families  of  friends 
and  investigators  and  members,  so  that  we  now  have  more  than 
twelve  hundred  members  there  in  our  short  period  of  missionary 
work.  We  have  approximately  seventeen  hundred  Indian  members 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We  have  baptized  347  in  the  sixty-five  stakes 
which  have  reported  so  far,  in  this  period,  since  the  work  was  in- 
augurated. 

In  the  missions  in  the  United  States  and  Canada,  we  have 
baptized  248  Indians  in  this  short  period.  You  will  be  interested  to 
know  that  we  are  baptizing  more  Indians  for  each  missionary  than 
the  Church  is  baptizing  in  the  rest  of  the  world.  There  were  three 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  67 


and  three-tenths  baptisms  for  each  missionary  in  the  Indian  mission 
in  1949,  compared  to  about  two-thirds  that  many  for  the  other 
missions  in  North  America.  We  have  about  fifty  baptisms  of  Indian 
youth  who  have  come  from  the  reservation  and  who  are  living  in 
the  homes  of  Latter-day  Saints  on  a  daughter-mother  and  son- 
father  basis.  Here  the  Indian  boy  or  girl  becomes  an  unofficial 
member  of  the  family,  and  is  neither  a  servant  nor  a  guest,  where 
foster  parents  are  taking  care  of  them  and  are  giving  them  education 
and  training,  and  they  soon  come  into  the  Church  at  their  own 
request.  We  have  about  fifty-one  Lamanite  missionaries  in  the  mis- 
sion field  now,  and  they  will  be  increasing  very  rapidly,  I  am  sure. 
We  have  a  full-blooded  Navajo  girl  who  goes  into  the  mission 
field  Monday  morning,  the  first  from  that  nation.  We  have  a  Pima 
Indian  in  the  mission  field  now,  and  we  have  a  Catawba  Indian 
coming  from  the  East  who  goes  into  the  mission  home  soon,  en 
route  to  one  of  the  other  missions  in  the  Church.  Brother  (E.  Wes- 
ley) Smith  told  us  yesterday  there  were  ten  Lamanite  missionaries 
from  Hawaii  who  were  over  in  the  Orient,  I  believe. 

Early  Brethren  Quoted 

I  should  like  to  give  you  a  few  quotations  from  some  of  the 
early  brethren.  Joseph  Smith  said  that  this  work  was  extremely  es- 
sential, and  he  sent  Oliver  Cowdery,  Peter  Whitmer,  Parley  P. 
Pratt,  and  Ziba  Peterson  out  as  early  as  October,  1830.  It  wasn't 
very  long  after  the  plates  had  come  out  of  the  Hill  Cumorah.  In 
section  thirty-two  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  says  of  those  Lamanite  missionaries: 

.  .  .  and  I,  myself,  will  go  with  them,  and  be  in  their  midst;  .  .  . 
and  nothing  shall  prevail  against  them.  (D.  &  C.  32:3.) 

And  then  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said, 

.  .  .  and  there  (in  the  Rocky  Mountains)  they  (the  Latter-day  Saints) 
will  open  the  door  for  the  establishing  the  gospel  among  the  Lamanites 
who  will  receive  the  gospel  and  their  endowments  and  the  blessings  of 
God. 

And  Brother  John  Taylor  said: 

.  .  .  the  work  among  the  Lamanites  must  not  be  postponed  if  we 
desire  to  retain  the  approval  of  God. 

Oliver  Cowdery,  even  in  that  early  day,  had  found  the  Navajos 
in  the  far  Southwest,  and  he  reported  it  to  the  brethren,  feeling 
that  it  was  a  very  important  thing.  Then  Wilford  Woodruff  said 
this  further,  as  he  went  down  into  the  southwest,  in  New  Mexico, 
and  visited  among  the  Indians  there.  He  said: 

In  my  short  communication  of  the  second  inst,  I  promised  to  give  a 
fuller  account  of  my  visit  to  the  Isletas  which  I  will  now  endeavor  to  do. 

The  Isletas  are  one  of  the  Pueblo  groups  down  in  New  Mexico. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


I  view  my  visit  among  the  Nephites  one  of  the  most  interesting 
missions  of  my  life,  although  short.  I  say  Nephites,  because  if  there  are 
any  Nephites  on  this  continent,  we  have  found  them  among  the  Zunis, 
the  Lagunas,  and  the  Isletas,  for  they  are  a  different  race  of  people,  alto- 
gether, from  the  Lamanites.  I  class  the  Navajo,  Moquis  (Hopis)  and 
Apaches  with  the  Lamanites,  although  they  are  in  advance  of  many  Indian 
tribes  of  America.  I  class  the  Zunis,  Lagunas,  and  Isletas  among  the 
Nephites. 

And  then  he  goes  on  to  say,  that  as  soon  as  they  dismissed  this 
particular  meeting  among  the  Isletas,  and  were  going  to  leave,  one 
of  the  Nephites  arose. 

.  .  .  full  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  said,  "Friends,  why  do  you 
dismiss  us  and  leave  us  this  way?  This  is  the  first  time  we  have  heard  of 
our  forefathers  and  the  gospel  and  the  things  we  have  looked  for  from 
the  traditions  of  our  fathers.  If  our  wives  and  children  are  weary,  let  them 
go  home.  We  want  to  hear  more.  We  want  you  to  talk  all  night.  Do  not 
leave  us  so." 

Brother  Brigham  Young  said:  "It  is  our  duty  to  feed  and  teach 
these  Indians."  Let  me  quote  a  few  lines  from  him.  He  advised 
us  to  "educate  them  and  teach  them  the  gospel"  so  that  many  gen- 
erations would  not  pass  ere  they  should  become  a  white  and  de- 
lightsome people. 

This  is  the  land  they  and  their  fathers  have  walked  over,  called 
their  own.  And  they  have  just  as  good  right  to  call  it  theirs  today  as 
any  children  have  to  call  any  land  their  own.  They  have  buried  their 
fathers  and  mothers  and  children  here.  This  is  their  home,  and  we  have 
taken  possession  and  occupy  the  land  where  they  used  to  hunt.  Now  the 
game  is  gone,  and  they  are  left  to  starve.  .  .  .  The  Lord  has  given  us 
the  ability  to  cultivate  the  ground  and  reap  bountiful  harvests.  We  have 
an  abundance  of  food  for  ourselves  and  for  the  stranger.  .  .  .  We  are 
living  on  their  possessions  and  at  their  homes. 

I  should  like  to  quote  again  from  President  John  Taylor.  He 


The  work  among  the  Lamanites  must  not  be  postponed  if  we  desire 
to  retain  the  approval  of  God.  Thus  far  we  have  been  content  simply  to 
baptize  them  and  let  them  run  wild  again,  but  this  must  continue  no 
longer;  the  same  devoted  effort,  the  same  care  in  instructing,  the  same 
organization  and  priesthood  must  be  introduced  and  maintained  in  the 
House  of  Lehi  as  amongst  those  of  Israel  gathered  from  Gentile  nations. 
As  yet  God  has  been  doing  all,  and  we  comparatively  nothing.  He  has 
led  many  of  them  to  us,  and  they  have  been  baptized,  and  now  we  must 
instruct  them  further  and  organize  them  into  churches  with  proper  presi- 
dencies, attach  them  to  our  stakes,  organizations,  etc.,  in  one  word,  treat 
them  exactly  in  these  respects  as  we  would  and  do  treat  our  white 
brethren. 


Brigham  Young  put  this  into  practice,  the  proclaiming  the  gos- 
pel to  the  Lamanites,  and  he  sent  missionaries  up  on  the  Salmon, 
over  in  Carson  Valley,  over  into  Moab,  down  on  the  Santa  Clara, 
up  around  Blackfoot,  and  elsewhere.   He  also  sent  a  mission  out 


said: 


History  of  Lamanite  Work 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


69 


to  the  Indian  territory.  We  made  five  attempts  to  establish  the 
work  in  that  area.  There  were  twelve  missionaries  went  in  1855. 
The  missionaries  were  withdrawn  from  almost  all  of  these  places 
when  Johnston's  Army  came  to  Utah.  And  so  the  work  ceased  in 
many  places.  Malaria,  persecution,  and  death  hampered  the  work, 
and  by  1860  the  Indian  territory  mission  work  had  lapsed.  There 
were  few  missionaries  to  send,  the  Civil  War  was  on,  and  condi- 
tions at  hortle  were  difficult,  and  and  we  had  just  begun  to  get  estab- 
lished here  in  the  West.  A  period  of  seventeen  years  elapsed,  and 
those  converts  and  investigators  were  lost,  of  course,  with  no  one 
to  teach  them.  In  1877  another  group  of  missionaries  went  to  the 
Indian  territory.  After  six  months  they  returned.  The  malaria  was 
too  much  for  them.  A  year  later  Elder  George  Teasdale  was  sent 
with  some  other  missionaries,  and  the  work  began  again,  but  they 
also  returned  in  about  six  months.  The  malaria  was  most  severe. 

Two  years  later  a  fourth  attempt  was  made  to  establish  the 
work,  and  missionaries  were  sent  again.  Though  the  malaria  was 
severe,  they  remained,  and  the  mission  went  on  to  the  present  time; 
but  other  changes  that  were  severe  came  upon  the  Indian  work. 
Texas,  Kansas,  Missouri,  and  other  states  were  added  to  the  Indian 
Territory  Mission,  and  it  became  the  Central  States  Mission,  and 
the  emphasis  was  gradually  transferred  from  the  Indians  to  the 
non-Indians.  When  I  was  in  that  mission  in  1914,  no  mention  was 
ever  made  of  Indians,  all  the  work  being  done  among  the  whites. 
About  two  years  ago  President  Francis  Brown  of  that  mission  sent 
missionaries  again  to  work  among  the  Indians  in  Oklahoma,  and 
the  work  is  again  going  forward. 

Our  Responsibility 

It  is  time  now  that  we  began  to  give  proper  emphasis  to  this 
great  work  of  bringing  the  Lamanites  to  a  knowledge  of  their  God. 
It  is  our  responsibility  and  our  opportunity.  Now,  brothers  and 
sisters,  in  the  stakes  and  missions  you  will  have  a  chance  to  teach 
the  Indians.  Let  your  prayers  ascend  to  the  Lord  in  behalf  of  them 
and  then  do  your  utmost  to  bring  them  to  higher  standards,  and 
above  all,  give  to  them  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  and  the  knowl- 
edge of  God,  as  they  once  had. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Lamanite  people,  and  bless  us  that  we 
many  realize  our  responsibilities  toward  them.  This  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

One  often  hears  the  question:  Why  a  church?  I  should  like 
briefly  to  consider  it.  I  shall  hope  to  suggest  to  your  minds  that  the 
question  is  tantamount  to  asking:  Why  religion? 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30 


Second  Day 


Washington's  Farewell  Message 

It  was  one  hundred  fifty-four  years  ago  this  very  month,  his 
second  term  of  office  as  President  of  the  United  States  drawing  to 
a  close,  that  George  Washington  announced  to  the  country  his  de- 
termination to  retire,  and  requested  that  he  not  be  considered  avail- 
able for  re-election  to  the  office  he  was  about  to  lay  down.  He  made 
it  the  occasion  for  a  farewell  message  which  partook  almost  of  the 
nature  of  a  last  testament,  bequeathing  to  his  countrymen  the  fruit- 
age of  his  rich  and  varied  experiences. 

As  a  participant  in  the  long  and  oftentimes  acrimonious  disputes 
which  eventuated  in  the  political  severance  of  the  American  colonies 
from  the  mother  country,  as  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  untrained, 
poorly-disciplined,  ill-equipped,  scantily-clad,  under-provisioned,  and 
ofttimes  unpaid  Continental  Army,  as  witness  to  the  bickerings  and 
jealousies  and  petty  greeds  which,  following  the  war,  so  threatened 
the  wreckage  of  the  infant  nation  that  he  often  wondered  whether  the 
winning  of  the  conflict  with  Britain  would  prove  to  be  a  blessing  or  a 
curse,  as  president  of  the  convention  which  fashioned  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  of  America  and  as  it  first  president,  he  had  seen 
human  nature  at  its  best  and  almost  its  worst.  Under  stresses  and 
strains,  sacrifice  and  suffering,  he  had  seen  men  rise  to  noble  heights 
of  patriotic  devotion.  Likewise,  he  had  seen  them  usurp  and  abuse 
power,  quarrel  and  bicker,  resort  to  petty  scheming  for  advantage, 
exhibit  mean  little  greeds,  and  stoop,  under  the  spur  of  selfish  am- 
bition, to  ignoble  deeds. 

Drawing  upon  this  ripe  knowledge  of  human  behavior  with  all 
its  foibles  and  inconstancy,  he  so  packed  into  that  testamentary 
legacy  perennial  wisdom  that  it  never  grows  old,  but  is  valid  for  all 
peoples  and  all  times. 

Among  the  nuggets  of  pure  gold  tucked  away  in  that  admoni- 
tory address  are  Washington's  observations  about  religion  and 
morality.  Here  is  what  he  said: 

Of  all  the  dispositions  and  habits  which  lead  to  political  prosperity, 
religion  and  morality  are  indispensable  supports.  In  vain  would  that  man 
claim  the  tribute  of  patriotism  who  should  labor  to  subvert  these  great 
pillars  of  human  happiness — these  firmest  props  of  the  duties  of  men  and 
citizens.  The  mere  politician,  equally  with  the  pious  man,  ought  to  re- 
spect and  cherish  them.  A  volume  could  not  trace  all  their  connections 
with  private  and  public  felicity.  .  .  .  And  let  us  with  caution  indulge  the 
supposition  that  morality  can  be  maintained  without  religion.  Whatever 
may  be  conceded  to  the  influence  of  refined  education  on  minds  of  peculiar 
structure,  reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us  to  expect  that  national 
morality  can  prevail  in  exclusion  of  religious  principle.  (Sept.  17,  1796.) 

The  Christian  Church 

Without  doubt,  when  Washington  spoke  about  religion,  he 
had  in  mind  the  Christian  religion.  By  and  large  that  is  the  only 
religion  Western  man  knows.  When  I  speak,  in  what  I  shall  say 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


71 


today,  about  religion  or  the  church,  I  shall  have  in  mind  the  Chris- 
tian religion  and  the  Christian  church,  which  encompasses  the  moral 
and  religious  teachings  of  the  Old  Testament  as  well  as  the  new. 

The  church  has  had  many  ups  and  downs  since  Washington's 
day  as  well  as  before.  It  has  had  periods  of  strength  as  well  as 
periods  of  questionings  and  doubts.  Agnostics  and  atheists  have 
ever  been  with  it.  It  has  taught  that  man,  the  individual  as  well 
as  the  race,  is  of  very  great  consequence.  As  a  child  of  God  en- 
dowed with  divine  attributes,  he  is  capable  of  infinite  advance- 
ment in  the  scale  of  being,  even  to  ultimate  perfection.  He  must 
have  faith  in  himself  and  his  high  destiny.  Thus  far,  the  Christian 
is  a  humanist,  and  the  church  is  humanistic.  But  when  man  loses  his 
humility  and  arrogates  to  himself  a  self-sufficiency  which  denies 
God  or  any  other  power  higher  than  himself,  then  the  church  must 
part  company  with  the  humanistic  creed  or  compromise  its  prin- 
ciples. 

Influence  Weakened 

Under  the  impact  of  agnosticism,  atheism,  and  the  extreme  hu- 
manism which  denies  God  and  makes  man  the  source  of  all  mean- 
ing, the  Christian  church  as  a  body  has  compromised  its  basic  doc- 
trines to  make  its  teachings  more  harmonious  with  the  current  of 
popular  opinion.  And  where  has  it  got  itself?  It  has  lost  its  sav- 
ing faith,  weakened  its  influence,  and  almost  forfeited  its  moral 
leadership.  In  consequence,  men  are  floundering  about  in  confusion, 
not  knowing  what  they  ought  to  do,  but  well-assured  that  the  fair 
promises  of  irreligion  and  unbelief  and  human  sufficiency  have  failed 
them,  and  they  are  casting  about  for  anchorage.  That  is  the  sorry 
plight  of  man  in  this  age. 


Revival  of  Faith  Needed 

Men  of  distinction  in  the  world  of  letters,  scientists,  men  of 
wide  learning  in  almost  every  realm  of  scholarly  research  are  as- 
serting with  great  earnestness  that  the  only  thing  that  can  save  our 
civilization  is  a  revival  of  religious  faith.  In  one  of  his  notable  ad- 
dresses, Robert  Gordon  Sproul,  president  of  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia, said: 

There  is  a  great  need  for  some  directive  force  to  rally  the  recuperative 
powers  of  mankind  and  win  the  race  with  catastrophe.  Education  cannot 
provide  such  a  force,  important  as  it  is,  because  it  is  not  the  minds,  but  the 
souls  of  men  that  must  be  regenerated  if  catastrophe  is  not  surely  to 
come.  .  .  .  Our  American  heritage  cannot  long  endure  without  a  firmly- 
grounded  religious  faith. 

Only  day  before  yesterday,  General  Marshall  said  that  military 
force  alone  cannot  defeat  the  enemies  of  the  United  States.  It  must 
be  buttressed  by  the  weight  of  moral  force. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


These  utterances  are  but  typical  of  the  warnings  that  are  re- 
peatedly being  sounded  by  thoughtful  people  who  are  concerned 
about  the  state  of  men  and  women  in  this  modern  world.  Thus  is 
the  wisdom  of  Washington's  reminder  that  religion  and  morality 
are  indispensable  supports  to  political  prosperity  and  that  morality 
cannot  be  maintained  without  religion  vindicated  by  the  compelling 
logic  of  events  in  this  disordered  topsy-turvy  world.  One  of  the 
most  frequently  urged  indictments  against  the  Soviet  system  of 
government  as  directed  by  the  polit-bureau  is  that  it  seeks  to  destroy 
all  religion  and  forbids  freedom  of  religious  practices  to  its  people. 


If,  then,  it  can  be  conceded,  as  is  so  vigorously  asserted,  that 
a  sound  religious  faith  is  essential  to  the  saving  of  our  blighted  and 
withering  civilization,  the  question  demanding  concrete  and  immed- 
iate answer  is:  How  is  a  religious  faith  equal  to  this  supreme  task 
to  be  regenerated?  I  do  not  assert  or  mean  to  say  that  the  average 
run  of  our  people  is  irreligious  or  anti-Christian.  Christian  stand- 
ards of  morality  have  too  long  been  bred  in  their  bones  for  that. 
The  teachings  of  Christ  still  furnish  the  best  standards  by  which  to 
measure  values  that  the  world  knows,  and  the  people  of  this  land, 
out  of  long  habit,  instinctively  turn  to  them.  At  least  we  pay  lip 
service  to  them.  But  clearly  that  is  not  enough  to  furnish  the  cru- 
sading fervor  essential  to  rousing  the  people  of  the  Christian  nations 
to  that  mighty  endeavor.  It  is  not  a  matter  for  individual,  un- 
coordinated confession  of  faith.  It  requires  action,  unified  action. 
That  means  an  organized  agency  or  instrumentality  to  give  the 
movement  direction  and  solid  purpose.  The  only  such  organization 
at  hand  is  the  church.  That  is  its  office.  But  there  are  too  many 
people  who  profess  religion  and  would  probably  be  insulted  if 
charged  with  being  irreligious  or  non-Christian,  who  at  the  same 
time  refuse  to  unite  with  their  fellows  in  the  effective  practice  of 

religion.  They  tell  us  that  they  do  not  believe  in  organizational  re- 


Who  has  not  heard  amiable,  good  men  say:  "I  have  my  own 
religion  and  do  not  need  to  be  bolstered  up  by  church  affiliation  to 
live  a  good  life?"  Even  if  that  were  so,  it  may  still  be  that  others 
need  the  bolstering  up  their  superior  strength  would  afford,  and 
after  all,  they  owe  some  obligation  to  those  who  need  their  help. 
But  apart  from  that,  if  this  sinking,  trouble-torn  world-order  is  to 
be  saved  through  a  resurgence  of  religious  fervor,  then  it  is  en- 
cumbent on  every  believer  to  throw  in  with  his  might.  We  hear 
much  said  these  days  about  isolationism  and  isolationists.  The 
least  excusable  form  of  isolationism  and  the  most  reprehensible  of 
isolationists  is  that  one  who  holds  himself  aloof  and  refuses  to  lend 


Unified  Action  Required 


ligion. 


Religious  Isolationism 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


73 


his  strength  with  fellow-believers  to  the  supreme  job  of  saving  civili- 
zation and  the  world. 

The  gospel  taught  by  Jesus  is  a  gospel  of  action.  It  does  not 
consist  in  a  passive  profession  of  faith.  Of  himself,  Jesus  said  that 
he  came  to  do  the  Father's  will,  not  to  talk  about  or  profess  it.  He 
made  a  parable  about  the  man  who  heard  his  sayings  and  did  them 
not,  likening  him  to  a  foolish  man  who  built  his  house  upon  the 
sand,  and  when  the  rains  descended  and  the  floods  came  and  the 
winds  blew  and  beat  upon  that  house,  it  fell  because  it  was  built 
upon  the  sand.  That  man  who  heard  his  sayings  and  did  them  he 
likened  to  a  wise  man  who  built  his  house  upon  the  rock,  and  it 
withstood  the  fury  of  rain  and  flood  and  tempest. 

A  Great  Brotherhood 

The  Christian  church  was  not  established  by  isolationists  who 
separated  themselves  from  each  other  or  the  body  of  believers.  They 
were  formed  into  worshipping  bodies  who  collectively  fought  their 
way  to  victory  against  dire  persecutions,  torture,  and  death.  They 
constituted  themselves  a  great  brotherhood  cemented  together  for 
the  fulfilment  of  a  purpose  in  which  they  believed.  Let  him  who  in 
placid  aloofness  luxuriates  in  the  freedom  and  comfort  and  security 
and  ease  which  Christianity  has  brought  to  the  nations,  contemplate 
what  his  status  might  have  been  if  there  had  been  no  Christian 
church. 

Organization  is  but  another  name  for  order  and  stability.  Its 
opposite  is  turmoil  and  confusion  and  weakness  and  ultimate  disin- 
tegration. If  no  political  body  in  the  world  has  ever  been  able  to 
exist  without  orderly  coordinated  authoritative  organization,  how 
can  it  be  presumed  that  religion  can  carry  on  its  high  commission  to 
resuscitate  a  sagging  world  without  the  church  which  is  the  organi- 
zational instrumentality  through  which  it  carries  out  its  great  work? 
Here  is  reason  enough  for  a  church. 

Effect  on  Family  Life 

There  is  one  other  vital  consideration,  namely,  the  effect  on 
family  life  and  succeeding  generations  of  the  neglect  of  participa- 
tion in  organized  church  practices.  A  few  years  ago  I  recited  from 
this  pulpit  the  story  of  a  disturbed  woman's  perplexities.  She  had 
just  visited  a  dear  friend  of  her  college  days  who  by  then  had  a 
well-grown  daughter  and  a  son.  She  was  both  embarrassed  and 
shocked  by  the  behavior  of  these  children.  The  boy  came  and  went 
as  he  pleased,  and  no  questions  asked  or  answered.  The  mother's 
admonitions  and  protests  against  the  indelicate  indiscretions  of  the 
daughter  in  her  behavior  with  young  men  were  met  with  jeers  at 
the  mother's  prudery  and  lack  of  sophistication.  The  last  night  of 
her  visit,  she  was  awakened  by  a  disturbance  in  the  house.  The  girl 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Dag 

had  come  home  from  a  late  party  thoroughly  intoxicated  and  was 
leading  her  escort  in  like  condition  to  her  room  when  they  were 
intercepted  by  the  aroused  parents.  A  noisy  scene  ensued  before 
the  boy  was  finally  sent  off  home  and  the  girl  put  to  bed.  So  the 
embarrassed  visitor  went  home  to  clear  her  head  and  do  some  think- 
ing. She  remembered  the  home  environment  in  which  she  was 
reared. 

The  religious  note  was  strong  in  that  home.  The  Bible  was 
read  and  believed  in.  Daily  the  family  on  their  knees  talked  to  God 
who  was  revered  and  was  a  reality.  They  were  church-going  peo- 
ple and  set  apart  one  day  a  week  as  a  holy  day  on  which  to  do 
reverence  to  the  Author  of  life.  They  sang  majestic  hymns  which 
carried  messages  to  their  expanding  souls.  They  heard  the  simple, 
direct  words  of  the  gospels  whose  grandeur  somehow  carried  over 
into  their  hearts  and  furnished  their  ideals  for  living.  These  ideals, 
through  practice,  were  silently  woven  into  the  pattern  of  their  lives, 
and  they  came  out  with  established  characters  and  stable  guides 
to  conduct  which  made  them  secure  against  the  waves  of  laxity 
which  washed  about  them  with  the  passage  of  time.  Her  home  and 
family  experience  were  typical  of  those  of  the  youth  of  her  time, 
including  the  friend  she  had  just  visited.  That  friend,  along  with 
herself,  in  the  days  of  their  girlhood  association  had  spontaneously 
as  a  matter  of  habit  and  acceptance  observed  the  conventions  and 
proprieties. 

She  explained  that  she  and  her  friend  and  their  associates  had 
in  their  college  years  given  up  the  simple  faith  of  their  youth,  had 
ceased  to  give  credence  to  the  beliefs  which  had  sustained  them, 
had  given  up  their  Bible  reading  and  their  church-going  and  their 
Sabbath  observance  and  their  prayers.  They  could  live  the  good 
life  without  these  "artificial  props."  They  didn't  need  the  church. 
They  said  they  had  their  own  religion,  but  really  it  had  shriveled 
up  to  a  mere  code  of  ethics  now  cut  loose  from  its  roots  and  no 
longer  nourished  from  the  parent  stem.  Then  with  an  incredible 
lack  of  recognition  of  the  relation  of  cause  and  effect,  she  professed 
amazement  at  the  moral  bankruptcy  of  her  friend's  children.  The 
truth  was  that  these  children  by  the  neglect  of  their  parents  had  been 
cut  off  from  the  very  character-forming  influences  upon  which  her 
own  character,  and  her  friend's  character  and  the  character  of  their 
generation  had  depended  for  formation  and  growth. 

Religion  a  Stabilizer 

While  the  instance  I  have  cited  may  in  some  aspects  be  ex- 
treme, it  nevertheless  illustrates  a  result  naturally  to  be  expected. 
The  moral  foundations  established  through  active  participation  in 
the  activities  of  the  church  may  carry  through  for  one  generation, 
but  scarcely  go  beyond  that.    When  parents  detach  themselves 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


75 


from  active  church  affiliations  and  leave  their  children  free  to  neg- 
lect it  too,  they  have  no  right  to  be  surprised  when  their  children 
fall  below  their  own  standards.  Religion  is  a  powerful  stabilizer, 
and  the  church  is  the  medium  through  which  it  is  made  effective. 

I  have  but  merely  mentioned  some  of  the  reasons  why  there 
must  be  a  church  if  religion  is  to  be  a  force  in  the  world  or  wield 
any  influence  or  power.  Many  other  cogent  reasons  will  occur  to 
you. 

The  church,  however,  is  but  a  dry  and  barren  mechanism  un- 
less energized  by  the  burning  faith  of  a  vital  religion.  That  is  the 
spark  that  gives  it  life. 

It  would  seem  to  be  the  part  of  wisdom  that  all  professing  the 
same  creed,  the  rich  and  the  poor,  the  mighty  and  the  humble,  the 
laborer  and  the  professional  man,  the  unlearned  and  the  scholar 
should  rally  together  and  with  united  strength  exert  a  power  in  the 
land. 

Solid  Conviction  Required 

To  merit  the  name,  religion  must  rest  on  solid  conviction.  It 
must  stand  for  something.  It  cannot  temporize  or  compromise.  The 
Christian  church  rests  on  the  premise  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God, 
the  resurrected  Lord,  the  author  of  eternal  life  for  man.  So  long 
as  it  stood  unyielding  on  that  base,  it  was  a  force  in  the  world. 
When  the  guardians  of  the  faith,  in  their  several  denominations, 
wavered  and  watered  the  doctrines  down  till  the  virtue  was  gone 
out  of  them,  they  ceased  to  be  the  prop  and  support  to  morality  and 
political  prosperity  which  Washington  said  was  indispensable.  So 
long  as  that  is  the  case,  the  world  will  totter  and  reel.  We  seem  to 
be  trying  now  to  rear  a  government  whose  proponents  and  sponsors 
cannot  even  invoke  divine  blessing  upon  their  deliberations  or  its 
destiny.  What  chance  do  you  think  it  has  to  heal  the  wounds  of 
the  world? 

If  religion  is  a  necessary  prop  to  the  political  government,  so 
likewise  does  the  religious  body,  the  Church,  need  for  the  protec- 
tion of  its  guaranteed  freedom  a  righteously  administered  civil 
government,  which  depends  upon  an  intelligent  and  jealously  guard- 
ed use  of  the  franchise.  That  is  the  citizen's  protection  against  abuse 
and  usurpation. 

So  far  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  concerned,  I  pray  that  as  Presi- 
dent Smith  admonished  at  the  beginning  of  this  conference,  they 
may  have  the  wisdom  and  honesty  to  put  their  religion  above  their 
partisan  politics  and  unite  together  as  a  solid  phalanx  to  weed  out 
prostitution  of  power  and  debauchery  and  subversion  of  the  God- 
ordained  freedom  guaranteed  by  the  glorious  Constitution  of  this 
land,  by  voting  into  office  without  regard  to  party  affiliation  those 
who  will  preserve  it  unpolluted  and  uncorrupted,  the  protector  and 
guarantor  of  individual  liberty. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30 


Second  Day 


ELDER  LEO  J.  MUIR 

Formerly  President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

Twenty-three  hours  ago  I  left  Los  Angeles  to  attend  this  con- 
ference. The  journey  was  long  and  tedious.  But,  my  dear  friends, 
I  testify  to  you  that  the  little  trip  I  just  made  from  yonder  front 
seat  to  this  pulpit  was  by  far  the  most  exhausting  lap  in  that  journey. 

Lest  you  might  think  there  has  been  some  negligence  or  in- 
difference on  the  part  of  the  First  Presidency  in  not  calling  for  my 
report  previous  to  this  time,  let  me  assure  you  the  fault  has  been 
mine  and  not  theirs.  I  was  here  at  the  last  conference  and  attended 
all  sessions,  except  the  Sunday  morning.  I  thought  that  of  all  ses- 
sions of  the  conference  that  would  be  the  least  likely  to  afford  oc- 
casion for  the  report  of  a  mission  president. 

I  am  delighted  to  be  here  and  to  look  upon  this  vast  and  in- 
teresting audience,  the  following  of  the  leadership  of  modern  Israel. 
I  am  not  going  to  burden  you  with  details  upon  my  mission  experi- 
ence. Suffice  it  to  say  that  to  Sister  Muir  and  myself  it  was  the 
most  enriching  experiene  of  our  lives.  Well,  indeed,  might  anyone 
covet  the  privilege  of  a  mission  presidency.  I  am  sure  my  feelings  in 
this  matter  reflect  the  heartfelt  verdict  of  all  the  men  and  women 
who  have  been  privileged  to  enjoy  such  an  appointment.  The  people 
in  the  mission  field  have  a  simplicity  of  faith  that  to  me  is  ad- 
mirable. In  the  stakes  of  Zion  we  argue  a  good  deal  about  this 
principle  or  that  principle,  and  we  indulge  in  debates  and  didactics. 
Out  in  the  mission  field  the  Saints  take  for  granted  the  verity,  truth- 
fulness and  substantiality  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  And  they  represent  the  acquisition  we  have  made  in 
the  world  in  our  attempt  to  gather  Israel  to  the  fold  of  Christ.  In 
their  total,  especially  when  we  consider  their  remoteness  from  the 
headquarters  of  the  Church,  they  are  a  commendable  acquisition 
and  a  substantial  corroboration  of  the  affirmation  the  Church  makes 
that  it  represents  the  power  and  the  authority  of  God  upon  the 
earth. 

Now,  I  want  to  say  that  I  feel  a  sense  of  pride  in  standing  here 
at  this  pulpit.  This  is  the  greatest  pulpit  in  all  the  world.  I  sin- 
cerely believe  that  more  truth,  more  of  the  logic  and  wisdom  of 
religion,  and  more  of  the  warmth,  substance  and  loveliness  of  cor- 
rect instruction  have  gone  forth  from  this  pulpit  than  from  any  oth- 
er pulpit  on  earth.  One  thing  that  always  pleases  me  is  that  there 
is  no  effort  on  the  part  of  those  who  speak  from  this  pulpit  to  reach 
for  something  exalted,  captivating  or  fascinating.  They  just  labor 
on  diligently  in  the  exposition  of  the  truth.  My  dear  friends,  that's 
what  we  need,  and  every  time  I  come  here  I  find  myself  the  bene- 
ficiary of  a  great  deal  of  truth,  wholesome  truth,  ardently  expressed 
and  yet  so  clearly  and  simply  that  the  wayfaring  man  may  not 
err  in  it. 


ELDER  LEO  J.  MUIR 


77 


Now  I  have  another  thought  about  this  pulpit.  Ezekiel  tells  us, 
I  think  it  is  in  the  36th  chapter,  speaking  for  the  Lord,  that  the 
Lord  will  in  the  latter  days  pour  out  his  spirit  upon  Israel  and  will 
cleanse  Israel  from  all  her  wickedness  and  her  evils,  not  for  her  sake 
particularly,  but  for  his  own  name's  sake,  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ.  And  that  he  will  also  take  out  of  Israel  as  a  people, 
and  I  take  it  also  individually,  their  hearts  of  stone  and  will  put  in 
place  thereof  hearts  of  flesh.  The  Lord  says — and  I  think  he  is 
speaking  to  us — that  he  will  put  his  law  in  our  inward  parts,  in  our 
subconscious  mind,  that  we  shall  react  to  his  law  instinctively,  just 
as  we  breathe,  just  as  the  organs  of  respiration,  the  organs  of  di- 
gestion, the  nervous  system  operate  under  natural  law.  And  he 
further  says  he  will  write  his  law  on  our  hearts  so  that  we  shall 
obey  his  law  and  love  his  law.  Now  isn't  that  a  triumphant  blessing 
promised,  somewhere  in  the  future,  for  the  enjoyment  of  Israel? 
That  we  might  love  the  law  of  the  Lord  and  instinctively  follow  it 
even  as  we  breathe.  Then  he  says  he  will  call  for  the  corn,  sym- 
bolic of  the  vegetation  of  the  earth,  and  renew  it  and  lay  no  famine 
upon  us.  Then,  finally,  toward  the  end  of  the  chapter  we  find  this 
auspicious  promise:  "I  will  yet,  [the  Lord  speaking]  I  will  yet  for 
this,"  for  the  doing  of  these  things,  cleansing,  giving  us  the  heart 
of  flesh,  the  heart  of  love  and  brotherhood,  and  renewing  to  the 
earth  its  Edenic  fruitfulness,  "I  will  yet  for  this  be  enquired  of  by 
the  House  of  Israel  to  do  it  for  them." 

Now  unless  my  understanding  of  prophecy  is  badly  distorted, 
I  feel  confident  that  whenever  that  prayer,  representative  of  modern 
Israel,  is  sent  forth  to  the  Lord  that  modern  Israel  might  enjoy  the 
fulfillment  of  the  prophecies  of  that  marvelous  chapter  in  Ezekiel, 
such  prayer  must  be  uttered  here  at  this  pulpit  and  with  the  voice 
and  the  authority  that  have  presided  here.  This  is  truly  the  House 
of  the  Lord. 

May  God  bless  us,  my  friends,  may  he  bless  the  rank  and  file 
of  this  Church,  everywhere,  with  the  firm  conviction  that  we  stand 
at  the  very  threshold  of  the  richest  and  most  fruitful  fulfillments 
of  prophecy  that  the  world  has  ever  seen,  and  that  we  must,  our- 
selves, do  very  much  toward  their  fulfillment,  is  my  prayer  through 
Christ,  our  Lord,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  will  now  sing  "God  Is  Our  Refuge  and 
Strength." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Glen  S.  Burt, 
Riverside  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  after  which  this  conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  for  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the 
stations  that  have  been  already  named.  The  proceedings  of  this 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

afternoon's  session  will  be  televised  over  KSL,  television  station, 
channel  five. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  has  been 
by  the  Deseret  Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  director  and 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  will  now  sing  "God  Is  Our  Refuge." 


Singing  by  the  choir  "God  Is  Our  Refuge." 

President  David  O.  McKay; 

In  your  behalf  and  in  behalf  of  the  listening  audience  we  desire 
to  express  appreciation  to  the  conductor  and  members  of  the  Deseret 
Stake  Choir  for  their  great  service  and  the  inspiring  music  of  this  day. 
I  am  sure  that  President  Alonzo  Hinckley,  who  at  one  time  presided 
over  this  stake  and  later  became  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  is  pleased  with  this  music. 

The  benediction  will  now  be  offered  by  President  Glen  S.  Burt. 


The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Glen  S.  Burt  of 
the  Riverside  Stake.  Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  afternoon,  September  30, 
at  2:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and,  at  President 
Smith's  request,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services  of  this  meeting. 

The  Choir  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Deseret 
Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  director.  Elder  Roy  M.  Dar- 
ley, Assistant  Tabernacle  organist,  was  at  the  organ. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  present  and  presiding.  He  has 
asked  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  speaking,  to  conduct  the  services. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  79 


Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main)  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  five. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  the 
Deseret  Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  director,  and  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Deseret  Stake  Choir  singing 
"For  The  Strength  of  The  Hills." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  N.  Russell 
Tanner  of  Weber  Stake,  Utah. 


The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  sang  the  hymn  "For  The  Strength  of 
The  Hills." 

President  N.  Russell  Tanner  of  the  Weber  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  sang  "Christian,  the  Morning  Breaks 
Sweetly  O'er  Thee." 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will  now  read 
the  vital  statistical  data,  the  changes  in  the  ward  and  stake  organi- 
zations, and  the  obituaries  of  the  Church. 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing report: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD 
AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1950 

Mission  Changes  and  New  Presidents  Appointed: 

David  I.  Stoddard  appointed  president  of  the  California  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Oscar  W.  McConkie. 

Near  East  Mission,  formerly  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission. 

Evon  W.  Huntsman  appointed  president  of  the  Tongan  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Emile  C.  Dunn. 

Edwin  Q.  Cannon  appointed  president  of  the  West  German 
Mission  to  succeed  Jean  Wunderlich. 

Sylvester  Broadbent  appointed  to  be  president  of  a  new  mis- 
sion to  be  created  in  Montana,  Wyoming,  and  parts  of  North 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Day 

Dakota  and  South  Dakota,  to  be  called  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 

New  Stake  Organized: 

Richland  Stake,  organized  from  the  Yakima  District  of  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Charles  Oscar  Dunn,  president  of  Boise  Stake  to  succeed  Z. 
Reed  Millar. 

Elwood  J.  Corry,  president  of  Cedar  Stake  to  succeed  David 
LeRoy  Sargent. 

June  W.  Black,  president  of  Deseret  Stake  to  succeed  Harold 
R.  Morris. 

Thomas  W.  Muir,  president  of  Emigration  Stake  to  succeed 
George  A.  Christensen. 

Earle  W.  Allen,  president  of  Hyrum  Stake  to  succeed  Edwin 
Clawson. 

Daniel  S.  Frost,  president  of  Kanab  Stake,  to  succeed  Israel 
H.  Chamberlain. 

Davis  Green,  president  of  Minidoka  Stake  to  succeed  J.  Melvin 
Toone. 

Wendell  B.  Christensen,  president  of  Palo  Alto  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Henry  C.  Jorgensen. 

Elmo  P.  Humpherys,  president  of  Reno  Stake  to  succeed  E. 
Vaughn  Abbott. 

James  V.  Thompson,  president  of  Richland  Stake. 

Marden  D.  Pearson,  president  of  Sevier  Stake  to  succeed  Irvin 
L.  Warnock. 

Jesse  M.  Smith,  president  of  Snowflake  Stake  to  succeed  David 
A.  Butler. 

Milan  D.  Smith,  president  of  Union  Stake  to  succeed  C.  Lloyd 
Walch. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Smith  West  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Smith 
Ward. 

Canyoncrest  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Parleys  Ward. 

Crystal  Heights  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Park  Avenue  Ward. 

Salmon  2nd  Ward,  Lost  River  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Salmon  Ward. 

Mesa  10th  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Mesa  6th  Ward. 

El  Paso  2nd  Ward,  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  El  Paso  Ward. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  81 


Beverly  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Sharon 
Ward. 

Phoenix  7th  Ward,  Phoenix  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Phoenix  1st  Ward. 

Laurelhurst  Ward,  Portland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Colonial  Heights  Ward. 

Pasco-Kennewick  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Richland  1st  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Richland  2nd  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Sunnyside  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Toppenish  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Yakima  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Sherman  Oaks  Ward,  San  Fernando  Stake,  formed  by  a  divi- 
sion of  Van  Nuys  Ward. 

Yosemite  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Stockton  Ward. 

Tremonton  3rd  Ward,  South  Bear  River  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Tremonton  2nd  Ward  and  all  of  Evans  Branch. 

Tooele  7th  Ward,  Tooele  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Tooele 
3rd  Ward. 

Farmington  2nd  Ward,  Young  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Farmington  Ward. 

Garden  Heights  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Rosecrest  Ward. 

Tucson  2nd  and  Tucson  3rd  Wards,  Southern  Arizona  Stake, 
formed  by  a  division  of  the  Tucson  Ward. 

Gallup  Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake,  formerly  Gallup  Branch. 

Wards  Transferred: 

Imperial  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formerly  in  the  High- 
land Stake. 

Walla  Walla  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  in  the  Union 
Stake. 

Ward  Names  Changed: 

South  Pasadena  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formerly  El  Sereno 
Ward. 

Seattle  First  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  Queen  Anne  Ward. 
Seattle  2nd  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  West  Seattle  Ward. 
Seattle  3rd  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  University  Ward. 
Seattle  4th  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  South  Seattle  Ward. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Dag 

Tucson  1st  Ward,  Southern  Arizona  Stake,  formerly  Bing- 
hampton  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Lynwood  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Lynwood  Branch. 
Marsing  Ward,  Nampa  Stake,  formerly  Marsing  Branch. 
Fort  Hall  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formerly  Fort  Hall  Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Shoshone  Branch,  Blaine  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  branch 
of  Dietrich  Branch. 

Sunnyslope  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent 
branch  of  Phoenix  3rd  Ward. 

Hermiston  Branch,  Richland  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Fair  Oaks  Branch,  Sarcamento  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Roseville  and  Carmichael  Wards. 

Gallup  Branch,  St.  Johns  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  West- 
ern States  Mission. 

Perris  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  part  of  River- 
side Ward  and  California  Mission. 

Lodi  Branch,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Stock- 
ton Ward. 

Manteca  Branch,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Stockton  Ward. 

Dove  Creek  Branch,  San  Juan  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Western  States  Mission. 

Willcox  Branch,  Southern  Arizona  Stake. 

East  Tod  Park  Branch,  Tooele  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Tod  Park  Branch. 

West  Tod  Park  Branch,  Tooele  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Tod  Park  Branch. 

Stibnite  Branch,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  branch  of 
Emmett  2nd  Ward. 

Weiser  River  Branch,  Weiser  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Weiser  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Discontinued: 

Evans  Branch,  So.  Bear  River  Stake,  disorganized,  membership 
transferred  to  Tremonton  3rd  Ward. 

Turnerville  Branch,  Star  Valley  Stake,  disorganized,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Bedford  Ward. 

Salt  Lake  City  Deaf  Mute  Branch,  attached  to  Park  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

George  F.  Richards,  President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
Roscoe  W.  Eardley,  General  Welfare  Committee. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 


83 


Frank  Evans,  Secretary  of  Finance  to  the  First  Presidency,  and 
Secretary  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 

Mabel  Young  Sanborn,  daughter  of  President  Brigham  Young. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  David  O.  McKay,  of  the  First  Presidency,  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers  and  General  Aux- 
iliary Officers  of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this  General 
Conference. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  presented  the  General  Authorities.  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were 
unanimously  sustained  by  the  Conference,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
David  O.  McKay 

Acting  President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Harold  B.  Lee  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 


The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Dag 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Trustee-in-Trust 

George  Albert  Smith,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L.  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

George  Albert  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

David  O.  McKay  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Mathew  Cowley 

Stephen  L  Richards  Henry  D.  Moyle 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Franklin  L.  West 


Harold  B.  Lee 


Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood 
Joy  F.  Dunyon 


GENERAL  OFFICERS 


85 


Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Clifford  E.  Young 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Alma  Sonne 

Harold  B.  Lee  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Matthew  Cowley  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  William  T.  Lawrence 

T.  C.  Stayner  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  John  Longden 

Leonard  E.  Adams  Walter  Dansie 

J.  Leonard  Love  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 


with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 


Second  Day 


George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 

A.  Hamer  Reiser,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  very  glad  I  made  it  this  far.  At  the  opening  session  of 
the  conference  President  Smith  said  this  was  a  beautiful  picture,  and 
it  certainly  is  a  magnificent  sight,  but  I  would  like  to  have  some  of 
you  brethren  looking  at  it  now. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  you  of  the  radio  audience,  and  you 
who  are  following  the  conference  on  television,  I  am  grateful  for 
the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference  in  this  house  which  was 
dedicated  to  the  service  of  the  Lord.  Nevertheless,  I  always  fear 
and  tremble  as  I  stand  here,  and  I  will  be  very  grateful  if  I  might 
have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  because  I  know  I  need 
the  Lord  now — I  need  him  always.  I  confess  that  I  have  waited  upon 
the  Lord.  I  believe  I  know  my  limitations.  I  have  prayed,  and  I 
have  wanted  to  be  humble,  and  I  believe  my  soul  is  bowed. 

Tribute  to  President  Richards 


I,  too,  would  like  to  pay  tribute  at  this  time  to  President  George 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


87 


F.  Richards.  I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  I  had  the 
privilege  of  knowing  him  intimately.  He  loved  this  people.  He 
loved  this  Church;  and  the  people  loved  him.  These  conferences 
were  a  great  comfort  to  his  soul,  and  he,  in  turn,  always  gave  us 
beautiful  and  wise  counsel.  He  was  truly  one  of  God's  noblemen. 
I  am  particularly  grateful  for  a  blessing  that  I  received  at  his  hands, 
and  I  sincerely  pray  to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  he  will  never  permit 
me  to  forget  that  choice  blessing. 

I  had  a  birthday  a  few  days  ago,  a  month  after  the  passing  of 
President  George  F.  Richards,  and  on  the  day  of  my  birthday  I 
received  a  letter  signed  by  President  George  F.  Richards,  written 
in  his  own  handwriting,  that  his  good  wife  had  kept  and  mailed 
to  me  the  day  before  my  birthday.  He  had  written  that  letter  just 
the  day  before  he  died.  I  shall  always  treasure  that  letter,  and  in 
it  he  gives  me  some  advice  that  I  need. 

This  great  tabernacle  that  we  are  meeting  in  now  was  com- 
menced in  the  year  1863,  nearly  a  hundred  years  ago.  The  Lord 
inspired  the  brethren  to  build  this  house,  and  it  was  first  used  for  a 
general  conference  such  as  this  in  the  year  1867,  and  it  was  dedi- 
cated as  a  house  of  the  Lord. 

Conferences  Strengthen  Spiritually 

Spiritually  I  am  strengthened  as  I  attend  these  great  confer- 
ences of  the  Church.  The  Lord  revealed  to  the  Brethren  that  con- 
ferences should  be  held,  both  general  conference  and  stake  con- 
ference, so  that  we  could  be  spiritually  strengthened  and  instructed 
in  our  duties. 

It  is  very  good  to  be  here  to  worship  God,  our  Eternal  Father, 
together.  We  are  here  for  no  other  purpose.  We  have  no  selfish 
interests.  We  come  here  to  thank  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the 
blessings  that  we  enjoy  as  a  people.  We  come  here  and  unite  our 
faith,  and  when  all  of  us  together  can  unite  our  faith  humbly,  then 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  here  in  rich  abundance.  It  is  good  to  be 
here  and  pray  together,  and  when  we  say  "Amen"  to  these  prayers, 
we  have  prayed  together,  and  the  prayers  have  been  so  beautiful  and 
strengthening.  It  is  good  to  be  here  and  sing  together.  It  is  good 
to  be  here  and  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  we  have  heard  yesterday 
and  today  and  that  we  will  hear  during  the  remainder  of  the  con- 
ference. It  is  good  to  be  here  and  be  taught  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  good  to  be  here  and  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
and  as  is  stated  in  Genesis:  "Truly  this  is  God's  house." 

Missionary  Letter 

As  we  come  here  to  be  instructed  and  to  draw  near  to  the  Lord, 
I  am  reminded  of  a  letter  that  I  received  the  other  day  from  a  nephew 
of  mine  who  is  on  a  mission  over  in  Finland.    Brother  Stephen  L 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

Richards  had  just  been  there  and  spoken  to  these  missionaries,  and 
I  would  like  to  quote  from  a  paragraph  in  this  missionary's  letter. 

Last  week  it  was  a  real  privilege  to  hear  Apostle  Stephen  L  Richards 
and  also  to  see  and  feel  the  example  that  he  is,  the  spirit  which  he  radi- 
ates. I  sometimes  am  afraid  these  Apostles  of  God  which  live  in  our  midst 
today  may  not  be  appreciated  for  what  they  really  are.  Many  people  do 
not  realize  that  these  men  are  truly  Apostles  of  God  in  the  same  sense 
of  the  word  that  Peter,  James,  and  John  were  Apostles  of  God,  our  Father. 
This  great  Apostle  who  was  inspired  of  the  Lord  stood  in  front  of  us  this 
day  and  told  us  about  the  things  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  I  shall  never 
forget  one  thing  that  he  said  to  us:  "The  things  of  men  are  understood 
by  the  spirit  of  men,  and  the  things  of  God  are  understood  by  the  spirit 
of  God." 

Lord  Inspires  Leaders 

I,  too,  know  and  bear  testimony  that  every  one  of  these  Apostles 
is  truly  an  Apostle  of  God,  our  Eternal  Father.  I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony in  all  humility  that  I  know  that  the  Lord  inspires  his  leaders. 
Many  times  I  have  seen  decisions  made  that  for  the  moment  I  could 
not  understand  nor  could  I  comprehend,  but  it  was  only  days,  yes, 
only  hours,  until  I  knew  that  the  decisions  that  had  been  made  were 
truly  the  decisions  inspired  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  have  of  living  in  this  day  and 
age  when  the  gospel  has  been  restored.  I  am  grateful  for  a  little 
old  grandfather  who  in  his  youth  accepted  the  gospel  in  far-off  Den- 
mark. I  am  grateful  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  into  his  bosom 
and  told  him  that  it  was  true.  I  am  grateful  that  he  had  the  courage 
and  that  he  listened  to  that  spirit.  He  had  to  leave  his  native  land, 
his  parents,  and  his  brothers  and  sisters,  never  again  to  see  them; 
but  oh,  how  he  loved  the  Lord,  and  how  the  Lord  blessed  him  all 
the  days  of  his  life. 

Mission  of  Prophet  Joseph 

I  am  grateful  for  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  I  am  grate- 
ful that  he  read  that  passage  of  scripture  because  he  lacked  wisdom. 
He  was  confused.  He  read  that  passage  of  scripture  that  we  ought 
to  read  today  and  practise: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 
But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.  (James  1:5-6.) 

He  believed  in  God,  and  he  went  into  the  Sacred  Grove,  a  natural 
place  for  him  to  go  and  kneel  down  and  pray,  just  back  of  his 
father's  home.  I  don't  suppose  we  can  ever  imagine  how  he  must 
have  felt  when  God  and  his  Son  appeared  to  him.  He  saw  them; 
they  spoke  to  him;  and  as  a  result  of  that  great  event,  one  of  the 
great  events  of  the  ages,  it  has  been  made  possible  for  you  and 
me  to  be  members  of  the  Church  of  God,  our  Eternal  Father.  I  am 
grateful  for  our  parents  and  our  grandparents  who  had  that  faith, 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  89 


who  did  not  have  the  learning  of  men,  but  oh,  they  had  the  faith  of 
God.  Their  testimony  was  indeed  strong.  Yes,  if  we  lack  wisdom, 
let  us  ask  of  God.  He  has  promised  us  if  we  would  seek  after 
him,  we  would  truly  find  him.  I  know  that  God  hears  and  answers 
prayers.  I  can  confess  humbly,  publicly,  that  I  know  I  would  not 
be  able  to  do  my  work  if  the  Lord  withheld  from  me  his  blessings 
in  response  to  my  petitions  and  my  prayers.  God  has  said:  "Pray 
always,  and  I  will  pour  out  my  blessings  upon  you."  Yes,  he  has 
said, 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat 
in  mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if 
I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing, 
that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it.  (Malachi  3:10.) 

Other  promises  and  other  blessings  go  with  all  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord. 

Rededication  of  Lives 

Now  as  we  attend  these  conferences,  oh  if  we  could  rededicate 
our  lives,  and  put  aside  those  things  that  matter  little.  Sometimes  I 
ponder  over  the  things  that  I  have  foolishly  placed  value  on  that 
mean  little  or  nothing. 

I  would  like  to  ask  you,  "When  are  you  the  happiest?"  You're 
the  happiest  when  you  are  trying  your  best  to  serve  the  Lord  with 
all  your  heart,  with  all  your  might,  and  with  all  your  strength.  And 
I  would  like  to  ask  you  when  you're  the  most  unhappy?  You're  the 
most  unhappy  when  you  fail  to  do  those  things  that  the  Lord  has 
commanded  you  to  do.  Happiness,  true  happiness,  comes  from 
serving  the  Lord  every  day  as  best  you  can,  trying  just  a  little  harder 
today  than  you  did  yesterday. 

It  is  marvelous  to  be  associated  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
love  you  as  we  come  to  you  in  your  wards  and  your  stakes.  You're 
a  great  inspiration  to  us.  Sometimes  we  try  to  encourage  you,  but, 
oh,  the  comfort  you  bring  to  us  from  your  faith  and  your  prayers 
and  your  encouragement  to  us. 

Our  Servicemen 

Now  I  would  like  to  say  just  one  word  about  the  servicemen. 
I  wish  you  could  all  have  heard  Brother  McConkie  last  night  at  our 
bishops'  meeting.  My  heart  goes  out  to  this  group  of  boys  who  have 
been  called  away  from  their  loved  ones;  who  have  been  called  away 
from  their  wives,  their  farms,  their  businesses,  their  schools;  many 
of  them  wanted  to  go  on  missions.  They'll  not  have  that  privilege 
now,  at  least  temporarily,  but,  oh,  I  hope  that  as  a  Church,  that  as 
a  people,  not  only  we  who  have  sons  of  our  own,  but  that  all  will 
unite  our  faith  that  the  Lord  will  bless  these  young  men.  They 
didn't  bring  this  on  themselves.    They  go  because  it  is  their  duty 


.  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


to  their  country.  They  don't  like  war;  they  don't  like  hatred;  and 
they  don't  like  killing.  But  they  are  called  into  the  service  of  their 
country.  Many  of  them  have  just  been  married,  some  of  them  only 
married  a  couple  of  years,  some  of  them  only  a  short  time.  They 
are  entitled  to  live  and  to  love  and  to  rear  their  families  and  build 
their  homes.  It  would  not  matter  so  much  if  it  were  some  of  the 
rest  of  us  who  have  nearly  lived  our  lives;  but  may  our  faith  and 
prayers  go  out  to  these  young  men.  Pray  for  them  diligently,  for, 
as  Brother  Bowen  said  this  morning,  "If  this  Church  could  unite 
our  faith,  if  we  can  humble  ourselves  and  petition  the  Lord  regularly 
that  these  boys  may  be  blessed,  I'm  sure  that  God  will  look  down 
in  his  tender  mercy  upon  them."  May  we  pray  every  day  of  our 
lives,  pray  harder  than  we  have  ever  prayed  before  that  God  in 
his  mercy  will  stay  the  hand  of  the  leaders  of  nations,  that  this 
conflict  may  not  become  a  dreadful  conflict  that  could  ruin  thousands 
and  millions  of  innocent  young  men,  leave  many  widows,  and  many 
children  fatherless. 


May  we  write  to  those  young  men  diligently.  May  we  promise 
them  that  we  are  praying  for  them  with  all  the  faith  and  prayer  and 
testimony  that  we  can  muster.  It  isn't  enough  that  we  leave  that 
just  to  the  parents  of  these  boys.  Surely  they  will  write  to  them 
nearly  every  day  of  their  lives.  They'll  need  you.  They  are  not  in 
places  of  worship.  They  are  in  an  environment  that  is  not  good, 
and  you  know  it,  and  I  know  it;  so  when  we  know  that,  is  it  asking 
too  much  that  we  exercise  our  faith  and  our  prayers  in  their  behalf 
that  they  can  come  back,  that  they  can  yet  have  the  privilege  of 
living  and  loving  and  raising  their  families  as  God  intended?  Oh, 
I  am  sure  the  Lord  must  not  be  pleased  with  the  world  conditions 
of  today. 

Many  of  these  young  men  returned  from  the  service  three  or 
four  years  ago.  They  didn't  ever  expect  to  be  called  back  to  the  armed 
services  again.  Some  of  them  signed  up  as  reserve  officers,  but 
they  did  not  expect  to  be  called  back  into  bloody  conflict  in  just 
four  or  five  years.  Many  parents  have  already  received  that  sad 
letter  which  starts  out  "We  regret  to  inform  you."  Oh,  may  we 
pray  to  God  Almighty,  that  he  will  spare  the  lives  of  our  boys, 
that  they  can  come  back  and  fulfil  their  places  in  the  Church  as 
they  have  desired  to  do. 


I  did  receive  a  ray  of  hope  today  when  I  read  that  just  yesterday 
the  United  Nations  commander  directed  the  Lord's  prayer.  Seldom 
has  the  Lord's  prayer  been  uttered  in  such  solemnity  or  in  such  grim 
surroundings.  Yesterday  it  was  spoken  in  a  battered  Korean  capital, 
in  the  legislative  halls  where  glass  came  tinkling  down  from  the 


Letters  of  Encouragement 


The  Lord's  Prayer  in  Korea 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


91 


wrecked  dome  at  intervals,  and  where  the  galleries  were  guarded, 
where  they  kept  close  watch  in  all  directions,  and  where  the  Korean 
guards  stood  outside,  draped  in  grenades.  They  themselves  were 
walking  bombs.  The  leader  of  the  Lord's  prayer  yesterday  was 
General  Douglas  MacArthur.  He  stood  behind  the  speaker's  desk 
on  the  speaker's  platform,  with  light  showing  the  gravity  of  his 
lean  physique.  Before  him  the  congregation  at  this  place  of  thanks- 
giving consisted  of  brass  hats  in  army  uniforms;  haggard,  unshaven 
marines  and  soldiers;  and  many  weary-looking  war  correspondents 
and  other  people.  The  war  air  was  tainted  with  smoke  and  death; 
smashed  and  burning  buildings  stood  along  the  streets;  columns  of 
reverse  refugees  were  now  trying  to  find  home.  Then  Douglas 
MacArthur  came  to  that  part  of  his  address  where  he  was  about 
to  read  the  Lord's  prayer,  and  he  hesitated  for  a  very  long  solemn 
moment,  and  then  that  great  man  raised  his  hands  and  stood  up 
and  asked  everybody  to  quote  the  Lord's  prayer,  and  he  stated,  "In 
humble  and  devout  manifestation  of  gratitude  to  Almighty  God  for 
bringing  this  decisive  victory  to  our  arms,  I  ask  that  all  present 
rise  and  join  me  in  reciting  the  Lord's  prayer."  There  was  the 
rumbling  shuffle  of  many  rising  to  their  feet  such  as  you  might  hear 
in  a  great  church.  Off  came  the  camouflaged  helmets,  the  canvas 
hats,  the  navy  caps,  the  snappy,  blue  air-force  hats — all  were  bowed 
as  they  repeated  the  Lord's  prayer.  It  was  truly  the  act  of  a  Chris- 
tian gentleman.  Oh,  that  that  same  spirit,  that  same  confidence  in 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  could  be  in  the  hearts  of  all  men  who  are 
holding  responsible  positions! 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know 
that  the  spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  understandable.  I  know  that  it 
is  clear.  I  know  that  we  can  hear  it  if  we  will  only  try  and  listen 
to  it  as  it  speaks  to  us.  And  in  closing,  I  would  like  to  give  my  favor- 
ite little  quotation: 

Oh,  the  joy  and  comfort  that  comes  from  feeling  safe  with  a  group 
like  you,  having  neither  to  weigh  my  thoughts  nor  measure  my  words, 
but  pouring  them  out  from  my  heart,  just  as  I  have  today,  chaff  and  grain 
together,  feeling  certain  that  some  kind  friend  here  will  accept  what's 
worth  keeping  and  with  a  breath  of  kindness,  blow  the  rest  away. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"How  Firm  A  Foundation,"  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
speak  to  us.  Elder  Delbert  Leon  Stapley,  newly  sustained  mem- 
ber of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  follow  Elder  Moyle. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed  grateful  for  this  oppor- 
tunity to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  and  to  those  who  listen  in.  I  am 
grateful  to  be  counted  a  member  of  the  great  Church  and  kingdom 
of  God  here  upon  earth.  And  I  am  especially  grateful  that  my  life 
was  touched  as  closely  and  as  intimately  as  it  was  by  the  life  of 
our  departed  President,  George  F.  Richards.  I  want  to  join  with 
my  other  brethren  today  in  paying  respect  to  his  memory.  He  will 
always  stand  in  my  memory  as  a  man  of  God  whose  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  will  ever  burn 
in  my  heart.  It  has  increased  my  testimony  and  the  intensity  thereof 
because  I  know  that  what  he  knew  and  what  he  testified  to  was 
true.  I  am  also  very  grateful  for  the  close  association  I  have  had 
both  in  the  Church  and  out  with  our  departed  brother,  Frank  Evans. 
I  had  the  privilege  of  practising  law  in  the  same  courts  and  in  the 
same  counties  as  did  he.  And  whether  it  was  in  his  profession  or 
in  his  Church  activities,  he  exemplified  the  highest  virtues  that  we 
find  in  our  fellow  men. 

Army  of  Righteousness 

As  I  have  sat  here  during  this  conference  and  looked  into  your 
faces,  I  have  been  conscious  of  the  fact  that  we  represent  but  a 
small  part  of  this  great  body  of  men  and  women  whose  lives  are 
dedicated  to  the  work  incident  to  the  establishing  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  here  on  earth.  If  we  had  a  building  which  would  hold  twenty 
times  as  many  people  as  are  here  today,  we  would  hardly  have  as 
many  people  as  we  meet  every  three  months  in  our  quarterly  con- 
ferences throughout  the  Church.  Just  think  of  it:  A  great  army  of 
righteousness  contending  against  evil!  What  a  power  and  what  a 
force  we  are  in  the  world.  It  was  in  1899  that  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  spoke  these  words: 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  indeed,  as  the  Prophet  loseph  Smith  said 
they  would  be,  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
and  we  are  simply  in  our  infancy.  We  are  beginning  to  grow  and  be- 
come a  mighty  people,  but  we  are  nothing  to  what  we  will  be.  There  is 
no  question  in  my  mind  but  what  the  Lord  is  going  to  multiply  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  bless  them  more  abundantly  in  the  future  than  he  has 
ever  done  in  the  past,  provided  of  course  that  we  are  humble  and  diligent, 
provided  we  seek  for  the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom  and  do  not  do 
our  own  mind  and  will.  (Conference  Report,  April  1899,  p.  28.) 

What  Is  Important? 

I'd  like  to  say  a  few  words  this  afternoon  about  that  Latter 
subject.  There  are  so  many  people  on  the  earth  today  who  desire 
to  do  their  own  will  rather  than  the  will  of  the  Father.  And  when- 
ever I  think  of  these  people,  I  wonder  what  there  is  that  we  can  do 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


93 


in  our  ministry  to  touch  their  lives,  cause  them  to  realize  the  blessings 
that  are  incident  to  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God.  What  is  there  in 
life,  after  all,  that  is  so  important  that  we  cannot  and  should  not 
set  it  aside  to  do  our  full  duty  to  our  maker?  The  Savior  said  to 
his  disciples  of  old: 

Love  not  the  world,  neither  the  things  that  are  in  the  world.  If  any 
man  love  the  world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not  in  him.  (I  John  2:15.) 

Is  there  anything  the  world  has  to  offer  us  today  that  is  as 
precious  as  the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  The  gospel 
brings  comfort  and  joy  into  our  lives,  gives  us  a  sense  of  security 
which  the  world  cannot  offer  to  us.  Some  people  today,  and  today 
is  a  day  of  prosperity,  become  so  attached  to  their  wealth  that  they 
become  sufficient  to  themselves.  They  cease  to  be  dependent  upon 
God.  They  sense  no  necessity  for  any  direction  from  him,  and 
they  go  their  own  way.  Just  as  certainly  as  they  do,  they  gradual- 
ly lead  themselves  on  toward  destruction.  When  the  Lord  blesses 
us  with  wealth  and  with  prosperity,  we  have  a  great  mission  to 
perform.  We  can  utilize  that  which  the  Lord  has  given  us  so  beauti- 
fully to  build  up  his  kingdom,  to  help  one  another,  and  to  accomplish 
good,  and  to  be  the  more  dependent  upon  our  Father  in  heaven 
rather  than  less.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  prosperity,  economically  speak- 
ing, is  not  the  only  force  in  the  world  that  draws  us  away  from  the 
things  of  God  and  builds  us  up  in  our  own  estimation — leads  us  to 
criticize  the  prophets  of  God  here  upon  the  earth,  thinking  that  our 
judgment  and  our  wisdom  are  superior  to  theirs.  It  seems  that 
when  men  gain  power  on  this  earth,  whether  it  be  political  or  other- 
wise, they  build  up  within  themselves  an  egotism  which  destroys 
that  simple  faith  in  God  which  is  so  essential  for  men  who  are 
charged  with  important  responsibilities  in  public  life  and  elsewhere 
to  possess. 


Brother  Bowen  read  to  us  this  morning  from  the  farewell  address 
of  President  George  Washington.  Washington  realized  that  religion 
and  morality  are  the  pillars  which  uphold  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  without  which  the  Constitution  would  fall.  Wash- 
ington also  realized  and  exemplified  in  his  life  the  necessity  for  religion 
and  morality  in  the  lives  of  those  charged  with  the  responsibility  of 
maintaining  our  Constitution,  and  without  which  men  will  be  led 
away  from  the  truth.  Men  will  be  led  to  follow  the  course  which 
will  ultimately  destroy  the  Constitution  rather  than  uphold  it,  against 
their  very  oaths  of  office,  if  they  once  throw  off  the  cloak  of  morality 
and  of  religion.  No  one  can  fail  to  uphold  the  Constitution  and  be  a 
good  citizen,  much  less  a  worthy  public  officer.  One  who  disregards 
the  Constitution  is  not  worthy  of  our  patronage,  politically  or  other- 
wise. 


Religion,  Morality  Necessary 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

It  grieved  me  very  much  this  year  to  hear  a  man  running  for 
public  office  decry  the  fact  that  another  man  in  the  opposite  political 
camp  had  religion  with  him,  as  though  that  totally  disqualified  him 
for  public  office.  When  men,  in  the  exercise  of  the  power  which 
they  hold  by  virtue  of  the  offices  in  the  government  to  which  they 
are  elected,  begin  to  discredit  religion,  they  cease  to  become  fit  to 
hold  public  office.  And  I  hope  and  pray  that  we  as  a  people  shall 
be  led  to  exercise  the  rights  which  are  ours  in  this  great  govern- 
ment of  ours  to  vote  for  those  men  who  have  some  religious  con- 
ception and  who  seek  to  ordain  their  lives  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  truth  and  of  right;  men  who  respect,  uphold,  obey, 
honor,  and  sustain  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Organizations  Spring  Up 

We  have  in  our  midst  social  organizations.  They  seem  to  be 
springing  up  every  day  in  one  shape  or  another;  and  because  there 
is  some  power,  some  distinction,  some  prerogative  that  goes  with 
those  who  become  members  and  the  heads  of  these  organizations 
(whether  they  be  purely  social  or  otherwise),  many  seem  to  think 
that's  more  important  in  their  lives  than  to  magnify  the  callings 
which  are  theirs  in  the  priesthood.  We  have  heard  something  said 
this  morning  about  learning,  and  the  same  thing  holds  true  for 
that.  As  we  become  absorbed  with  the  wisdom  and  the  learning 
and  the  philosophy  of  men,  unless  we  have  a  humility  and  a  faith 
about  us,  we  shall  be  led  astray  just  as  certainly  as  wealth  or  power 
might  accomplish  the  same  purpose.  There  is  a  very  slight  margin 
between  good  and  bad  in  our  lives.  Sometimes  when  I  see  my 
friends  erring  a  little,  I  wonder  why  it  is  they  can't  remove  that 
margin  and  be  as  strong  and  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord  as  their  neighbor. 

I  want  to  say  that  my  heart  goes  out  to  you  brethren  and  sisters 
here  today  and  to  those  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  the  Church  who 
are  so  faithful  to  the  callings  which  are  yours,  and  who  seek  so 
earnestly  to  magnify  the  priesthood  which  is  yours.  I  am  sure  that 
history  in  no  age  of  the  world  could  record  any  greater  faithfulness 
than  we  find  today  in  the  lives  of  our  bishops,  our  stake  presidents, 
and  those  who  labor  under  them  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  this 
Church.  When  I  look  into  the  faces  of  these  brethren  who  have 
returned  from  their  missions  as  mission  presidents,  I  have  a  sense  of 
reverence  for  their  integrity,  their  loyalty,  their  faithfulness,  their 
courage.  These  men  have  been  willing  to  give  up  their  business  and 
their  professions,  leave  their  families  and  homes,  and  go  out  into 
the  world,  and  remain  just  as  long  as  their  call  extends,  not  worrying 
about  what  happens  in  the  future.  There  is  no  wealth,  there  is  no 
political  position,  there  is  no  power  or  social  distinction  which  could 
come  to  these  men  that  could  tempt  them  in  the  least. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


95 


Instil  Faith,  Devotion 

And  so  it  is  our  purpose  in  the  Church  to  go  out  among  the 
people  in  the  wards  and  stakes  and  see  whether  we  can  instill  in  their 
hearts  the  kind  of  faith  and  devotion  which  we  find  in  these  great 
mission  presidents  of  ours.  It  is  one  of  the  joys  of  my  life  to  be 
able, to  go  into  a  mission  and  become  intimately  acquainted  and  as- 
sociated with  these  men  as  they  direct  the  efforts  of  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Israel  in  the  mission  field.  They  give  to  us  an  example 
which  we,  that  is,  most  of  us,  endeavor  to  reflect  in  our  own  lives.  I 
am  sure  that  as  we  reflect  this  into  the  lives  of  those  over  whom  we 
preside,  this  great  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  on  earth  will  con- 
tinue to  grow  and  develop  even  as  President  Grant  said  it  would  in 
1899.  I  am  sure  that  prophecy  is  yet  unfulfilled.  We  are  still  in 
our  infancy,  and  we  still  have  all  these  worldly  forces  and  powers 
to  combat  and  to  overcome. 

We  have  a  few  simple  remedies  which  have  been  given  to  us 
of  the  Lord  by  which  to  accomplish  his  purpose;  I  don't  know  of 
any  remedy  more  effective  than  ward  teaching.  If  the  bishops  and 
the  stake  presidents  would  see  to  it  that  this  work  was  entered  into 
in  the  true  spirit  of  the  priesthood,  the  spirit  of  this  work  as  the  Lord 
intended  it,  we'd  be  able  to  touch  the  lives  of  these  people.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  we'd  even  be  able  to  live  close  to  those  who  hold 
public  office  if  our  ward  teachers  visited  them  once  a  month  and 
called  their  attention  to  the  duties  and  responsibilities  they  owe  to 
the  people  who  elected  them  to  that  office. 

Righteousness  in  Office 

I  would  like  to  say  one  more  word  about  public  office.  There 
seems  to  be  a  tendency  among  us  in  this  state,  and  I  presume  even 
more  so  in  others,  to  think  that  when  we  act  as  mayor  of  a  city  or 
in  a  city  council,  we  are  not  required  to  exercise  that  same  degree 
of  righteousness  that  we  would  in  our  own  individual  lives.  I  have 
particularly  in  mind  today  a  case  where  a  mayor  and  a  city  council 
thought  that  it  was  perfectly  proper  for  them  to  violate  the  laws 
of  the  state  of  Utah  and  to  carry  on  in  their  city  parimutuel  betting, 
gambling  in  one  of  its  worst  forms,  in  connection  with  horse  racing 
held  there  during  one  of  their  city  celebrations.  They  seemed  to 
think,  when  their  acts  were  challenged,  that  because  they  held 
public  office  and  the  city  treasury  received  the  income  from  those 
vices  they  were  completely  justified.  Let  us  stop  for  a  moment  and 
see  where  such  reasoning  would  ultimately  lead  us.  If  every  city 
in  Utah  did  that  same  thing,  then  the  mayors  and  the  city  councils 
would  nullify  the  laws  of  the  state  legislature.  They  would  take 
unto  themselves  powers  that  do  not  belong  to  them.  They  would 
abrogate  the  law  by  their  own  illegal  and  immoral  practices.  But, 
say  the  people  of  this  one  town,  they  don't  all  do  it,  and  we're  the 
ones  that  got  this  idea  up  and  we  ought  to  be  able  to  continue  to 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

profit  by  it.  I  asked  them  one  simple  question.  Who  is  it  that 
comes  to  your  city  to  attend  these  races?  Well,  they  come  from 
all  over  the  state.  Now  isn't  that  the  answer?  Has  any  mayor, 
has  any  city  council  the  right  to  carry  on  illegally,  gambling  in  the 
city  under  the  auspices  of  the  police  power  of  the  city  and  invite 
everybody  else  from  the  state  in,  so  that  city  might  profit  by  preying 
upon  the  weaknesses  of  others,  inviting  as  it  were  the  public  to  come 
there  and  not  only  exhibit  their  weaknesses  but  also  lose  their 
money.  It  cannot  be  any  more  objectionable  for  the  individual  to 
carry  on  gambling  within  the  city  than  it  would  be  for  the  city 
itself.  It  seems  to  me,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  that  those  who  have 
taken  a  solemn  oath  to  uphold  and  sustain  the  laws  and  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  land  should  be  the  last  to  violate  them  no  matter 
in  whose  name  they  might  do  it. 

Exercise  Franchise  Intelligently 

I  hope  and  pray  that  this  coming  election  will  indicate  to  the 
world  the  steadfastness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  determina- 
tion to  move  forward  as  an  army  of  righteousness,  to  fight  evil  in 
all  its  forms  wherever  it  is  met  by  putting  into  office  men  and  women 
who  will  stand  for  our  highest  ideals,  morally  and  religiously.  We 
should  be  discerning  when  we  seek  to  exercise  any  of  the  rights 
that  are  ours.  We  should  see  that  those  rights  are  exercised  in- 
telligently, that  we  know  whom  we  are  voting  for,  and  what  they 
stand  for  when  we  vote  for  them.  It  is  our  privilege,  yes,  our  duty, 
to  know  the  position  legislators  will  take  on  all  matters  of  interest 
to  us.  Will  those  who  seek  our  patronage  at  the  ballot  box,  if 
elected  to  the  legislature  of  this  state,  vote  for  sale  of  liquor  by  the 
drink?  Will  they  vote  for  horse  racing  with  parimutuel  betting, 
gambling  on  the  side?  Will  they  otherwise  let  down  the  bars  of 
morality  and  permit  men  to  come  into  our  communities  and  prey 
upon  the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh.  No  man  ought  to  be  very  proud 
of  his  accomplishments  if  those  accomplishments  consist  of  capitaliz- 
ing upon  the  human  weaknesses  and  frailties  of  others.  Generally 
speaking,  it  is  the  young  people,  the  boys  and  girls,  who  are  natural- 
ly inclined  to  be  a  little  reckless.  They  get  in  the  groove,  as  it  were, 
in  the  habit  of  gambling,  by  learning  that  most  vicous  habit  of  try- 
ing to  get  something  for  nothing.  It  is  prevalent  today  in  the  individual 
lives  of  our  people  and  in  all  of  our  government  units  to  give  the 
people  as  much  as  possible  for  nothing  and  to  see  how  little  the 
people  shall  ultimately  be  required  to  work  for  what  they  get.  I  hope 
and  pray  that  the  day  will  come  when  every  Latter-day  Saint  will 
stand  for  the  enthroning  of  labor  and  industry  and  thrift.  God  bless 
us  to  be  wise,  to  be  discreet  and  discriminating  and  discerning,  and 
to  utilize  every  force  and  every  asset  that  we  have  to  see  to  it  that 
our  governments  are  conducted  by  men  who  uphold  the  Constitution 
unconditionally,  who  believe  in  God,  who  lend  obedience  to  his 


ELDER  DELBERT  LEON  STAPLEY  97 


commandments,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Elder  Delbert  Leon  Stapley,  newly  sustained  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency. 

Congratulations  Brother  Stapley,  upon  the  great  honor  and 
high  responsibility  that  have  come  to  you. 

ELDER  DELBERT  LEON  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  more  keenly  than  ever  that  what 
President  Clark  has  just  said  is  true.  I  am  grateful  I  had  the  stop- 
over privilege  on  the  way  up  to  the  pulpit,  otherwise  I  am  fearful 
I  would  not  have  made  the  grade.  I  stand  before  you  in  all  humility. 
I  am  very  humble  about  this  call,  and  I  know  I  require  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  if  I  fulfil  such  a  high  responsibility.  I  know,  too,  that 
I  require  your  love  and  confidence,  your  faith  and  prayers,  for  it 
is  my  desire  since  receiving  this  appointment,  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord,  to  give  it  the  best  that  I  am  capable  of  giving. 

Love  for  Brethren 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  just  a  little  about  the  call  because  it 
is  a  testimony,  at  least  to  me.  But  first  I  would  like  to  say  that  I 
love  these  brethren,  the  General  Authorities.  I  know  them  all, 
and  I  have  had  the  privilege  as  a  counselor  in  a  stake  presidency 
and  as  president  of  a  stake  to  work  with  them.  I  appreciate  their 
high  spiritual  leadership,  their  fine  counsel  and  advice.  I  have  been 
coming  to  general  conferences  for  a  long  time,  and  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  raise  my  hand  to  sustain  these  brethren,  and  I  have 
always  tried  to  do  just  that.  Most  of  my  life  I  have  been  actively 
engaged  in  the  Church.  I  love  the  Church;  I  love  to  work  in  the 
Church.  I  delight  in  working  with  people.  I  am  sure  this  calling 
gives  me  that  opportunity. 

Call  to  the  Council 

Thursday,  having  some  stake  business  to  transact  just  following 
the  noon  hour,  but  understanding  the  General  Authorities  were  in 
session,  I  thought  I  had  time  to  go  down  the  street  to  visit  a  friend 
of  mine  before  they  returned  to  their  offices.  As  I  got  out  of  the 
elevator  in  the  Hotel  Utah,  whom  should  the  Lord  place  in  my  path 
but  President  George  Albert  Smith.  There  is  no  one  I  would  rather 
see,  for  I  have  known  and  loved  him  for  a  long  time.  As  a  boy  I 
remember  his  coming  into  my  father's  home  representing  the  General 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

Authorities  as  a  stake  conference  visitor.  When  I  went  on  my 
mission  to  the  Southern  States,  President  Smith  set  me  apart  for 
that  mission.  When  my  wife  and  I  were  married  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple,  President  Smith  officiated.  When  he  was  General  Super- 
intendent of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  I  was  super- 
intendent of  the  Maricopa  Stake  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 
During  the  dedication  of  the  Arizona  Temple  at  Mesa,  President 
Smith  and  his  lovely  wife  lived  with  us  for  a  period  of  two  weeks. 
He  has  been  in  our  home,  and  I  have  seen  him  many  times  since. 
To  us  he  is  a  very  dear  person. 

And  so  here  he  was,  blocking  my  way.  He  said,  "President 
Stapley,  you  are  just  the  man  I  am  looking  for."  There  in  the  lobby 
of  Hotel  Utah  he  told  me  that  it  was  the  wish  of  the  Brethren  that 
I  come  on  the  Council.  Well,  I  saw  him  to  the  door,  and  I  am  sure 
I  must  have  looked  like  a  ghost  because  people  were  staring  at  me 
as  I  walked  back  into  the  hotel,  and  I  thought,  surely  everyone 
knows.  I  went  up  to  the  room  and  called  my  wife  from  an  adjoining 
room.  I  just  couldn't  speak,  I  was  so  overcome  with  emotion.  She 
tried  for  a  long  time  to  find  out  what  was  wrong.  She  thought  surely 
something  serious  had  happened  to  me.  Well,  to  some  people,  per- 
haps, it  had.  But  when  I  finally  composed  myself  and  told  her  about 
the  interview  with  President  Smith,  the  only  consideration  I  received 
from  her  was  full  encouragement  to  accept  the  assignment. 

Appreciation  of  Wife 

I  deeply  appreciate  my  good  wife  for  the  position  she  took,  and 
I  know  that  in  this  work  if  it  were  not  for  good  wives,  the  men 
could  not  succeed  in  such  high  callings.  I  have  learned  to  rely  com- 
pletely upon  these  Presiding  Brethren,  and  I  know  when  I  sustain 
them,  as  being  accepted  of  the  Lord,  I  too  am  accepted  of  the  Lord 
and  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  that  is  true  of  all  of  us.  When  we  receive 
and  follow  those  whom  the  Lord  has  chosen,  we  are  accepted  of 
the  Lord  and  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Blessing  Fulfilled 

Now  just  one  other  thing.  As  I  was  passing  through  Salt  Lake 
City  on  my  way  to  the  Southern  States  Mission,  I  received  a  patri- 
archal blessing  from  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  the  father  of  our  present 
Patriarch  to  the  Church.  I  haven't  read  that  blessing  for  some  little 
time,  but  after  this  call  came,  two  things  in  that  blessing  stood  out 
in  my  mind  that  impressed  me  very  greatly.  One  was  that  I  would  be 
called  into  positions  of  responsibility  and  trust.  And  this,  in  a 
measure,  I  have  enjoyed  along  the  way,  but  the  crowning  achieve- 
ment is  in  this  appointment  to  the  apostleship.  And  the  other  was  that 
I  would  travel  much  for  the  gospel's  sake.  Well,  I  didn't  know  when 
and  how  in  the  work  I  was  doing  I  would  be  able  to  realize  this 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


99 


blessing.  I  never  expected  to  be  called  into  this  position,  but  it 
does  open  up  the  way  whereby  this  blessing  will  be  realized.  And 
so  I'm  grateful  to  the  faithful  patriarchs  of  the  Church  who  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  their  calling,  and  for  the  ability  they  have  to  lay  out 
before  us  our  pattern  of  life,  and  I  know  if  we  keep  in  the  way 
of  God's  commandments,  we  will  realize  that  pattern  of  life. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  this  gospel.  It  is  a  great  Church,  and  I 
enjoy  working  in  it,  and  I  hope,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  may 
get  acquainted  with  you  in  this  responsibility  and  gain  your  love 
and  respect  and  confidence.  I  ask  for  your  faith  and  prayers  that 
I  may  serve  you  well,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Delbert  Leon  Stapley  delivering 
his  maiden  talk  as  a  newly  sustained  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and,  as 
you  brothers  and  sisters  know,  he  comes  into  the  Council  with  the 
reputation  of  a  long  life  of  activity  and  usefulness  and  with  our  full 
faith  and  confidence. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  feel  very  humble,  brothers  and  sisters,  standing  before  you 
today,  and  it  is  my  dearest  hope  that  the  spirit  which  has  thus  far 
been  present  in  this  conference  will  continue  with  us  while  I  speak. 
And  to  that  end  may  I  humbly  ask  for  faith  and  your  prayers,  that 
I  may  be  led  to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful  to  you  and  to  all 
who  are  listening  in. 

I  might  begin  by  adding  my  tribute  to  that  great  soul  who  is 
not  with  us  today,  who  was  here  last  time,  President  George  F. 
Richards.  I  have  never  known  a  man  of  finer  spirit,  greater  integrity, 
more  devotion,  more  loyalty  than  President  George  F.  Richards 
possessed  or  exercised  in  his  life. 

Brother  Frank  Evans  also  was  a  splendid  character,  a  man  of 
great  ability,  a  man  whose  place  it  will  be  hard  to  fill. 

We  are  met  here  today  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — and  I  am  impressed  with  that  name, 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  today 
based  on  the  necessity  of  our  remembering  that  name  and  of  our 
yielding  loyalty  and  obedience  thereto. 

Sermon  on  Mount  of  Olives 

Out  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  the  day  before  the  crucifixion,  the 
Lord  preached  a  great  sermon  to  his  Apostles,  in  which  he  spoke  of 
the  times  that  were  to  come.    The  Prophet  Joseph  has  given  us  a 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

revised  translation  of  that  great  speech.  In  that  speech  he  spoke 
of  the  times  when  the  anti-Christ  would  come.  He  also  spoke  of 
the  destruction  of  Jerusalem  and  what  should  precede  that  event, 
apparently  the  destruction  which  came  under  Titus.  You  may  have 
to  read  the  discourse  with  care  to  determine  when  the  Lord  was 
speaking  of  the  one  and  then  of  the  other,  but  the  revised  trans- 
lation will  help  you  in  your  study. 

At  that  time,  the  Apostles  seemingly  felt,  and  they  felt  there- 
after, that  the  second  coming  of  the  Savior  was  near  at  hand.  That 
was  nearly  two  thousand  years  ago.  In  those  early  days  of  the 
Church,  shortly  after  the  Apostles  began  their  work,  there  began  to 
be  "fallings  away"  from  those  who  had  joined  the  Church.  There 
were  a  number  of  things  that  led  to  that:  perhaps  not  a  full  under- 
standing of  the  gospel,  their  association  and  proximity,  their  elbow 
rubbing  with  pagan  religions,  and  other  things.  But  in  that  time, 
Peter  warned  them  of  what  he  called  "damnable  heresies,"  and  the 
Apostle  Paul,  in  his  epistles  to  Timothy  and  to  Titus,  spoke  more 
specifically  of  the  wickedness  and  the  transgressions  which  were 
among  the  people,  and  warned  Timothy  and  Titus  to  warn  the  people. 

In  our  own  modern  revelation,  the  Prophet  Nephi  has  spoken 
of  these  days  when  men  would  set  up  their  own  reason  and  their 
own  learning  against  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  he 
warned  us  to  beware  of  such  doctrines. 

Heresies  Now  Present 

I  want  to  refer  briefly  to  two  or  three  of  the  old  heresies  that 
are  now  present  amongst  us.  You  will  hear  among  our  intellectuals 
not  infrequently  that  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament  is  different  from 
the  God  of  the  New  Testament;  that  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament 
has  evolved  into  the  God  of  the  New — rather  a  rapid  evolution,  if 
it  were  true.  That  doctrine  had  its  base  in  what  we  know  as 
Marcionism,  which  appeared  very  early  in  the  church.  The  doc- 
trines of  Marcion  seem  to  have  been  founded  upon  the  hatred  which 
he  bore  toward  the  Jews  and  his  determination  to  try  to  wipe  out 
belief  in  all  that  God  had  done  with  the  Jews,  and  to  destroy  the 
God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob.  When  that  doctrine  is  re- 
duced down,  it  means  this:  that  God  is  what  man  conceives  him  to 
be;  that  man  creates  his  God,  instead  of  God  creating  man.  No 
greater  falsehood  can  be  promulgated  than  that. 

Arianism 

Another  heresy  which  appeared  in  the  early  days  was  known 
as  Arianism  and  that  was  called  Sabellianism,  which  identified  as 
one  being,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  This  man 
Arius,  apparently  a  resident  of  Alexandria  and  a  member  of  the 
Egyptian  church,  in  order  to  get  away  from  that  concept,  developed 
the  idea,  the  doctrine,  that  Jesus  was  merely  a  mortal  man,  a  man  of 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


101 


exceptional  power,  wisdom,  and  with  a  great  code  of  ethics.  That 
was  in  substance  the  contention.  Marcionism  destroyed  God  and 
Arianism  destroyed  the  Christ.  These  two  false  doctrines  shook  the 
early  Christian  church.  That  doctrine  of  Arianism  is  with  us  today. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  would  seem  that  the  Protestant  churches  them- 
selves are  largely  tinctured  with  it.  They  no  longer,  apparently, 
preach  the  simple  doctrine  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living 
God,  but  on  the  other  hand  they  gloss  that  over  and  talk  about  his 
greatness,  which,  of  course,  he  had.  I  want  us  to  be  warned  against 
the  appearance  of  these  doctrines,  because  they  are  grievous  sins. 

Paganistic  Immorality 

The  third  thing  I  want  to  mention  is  paganistic  immorailty. 
Among  some  ancient  peoples  it  had  advanced,  immorality  had,  to 
such  a  stage  of  depravity  that  they  actually  set  up  in  the  worship  of 
some  of  the  pagan  deities,  religious  prostitutes,  who,  as  a  matter 
of  religion,  offered  themselves  in  the  temple  precincts  to  those  who 
were  devotees  of  that  religion. 

The  same  elements  that  had  to  do  with  that  doctrine  are  at 
work  amongst  us.  There  is  an  effort  made  in  some  quarters  to 
destroy  all  idea  of  the  sanctity  of  chastity.  In  some  quarters  it  is  taught 
that  the  urge  of  sex  is  like  the  urge  of  hunger  and  thirst  and  should 
be  equally  satisfied.  That  doctrine  is  from  the  devil  and  will  lead 
to  destruction  for  any  man,  any  woman,  any  people  that  espouse  it 
and  practise  it. 

Now,  coming  back  to  the  Savior,  he  said:  "For  what  is  a  man 
profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own  soul? 
or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?"  (Matthew 
16:26.) 

Evidence  About  the  Savior 

The  evidence  about  the  Savior  and  his  identity  has  been  ac- 
cumulating over  the  years,  both  by  experience  from  him,  himself, 
and  by  the  testimonies  of  those  who  have  been  privileged  to  receive  a 
testimony  and  a  knowledge  that  he  lives.  We  will  note  some  great 
testimonies. 

On  several  occasions  the  Savior  himself  declared  to  those  who 
were  about  him  that  he  was  the  light  of  the  world,  the  light  that 
shineth  in  the  darkness,  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not.  He 
made  this  statement  to  the  multitude  who  remained  after  he  had 
forgiven  and  dismissed  the  woman  who  was  taken  in  adultery.  He 
made  the  same  statement  to  those  who  were  in  attendance  when 
he  healed  the  man  blind  from  his  birth  at  the  pool  of  Siloam.  He  has 
made  it  in  modern  times,  in  our  modern  revelations,  over  and  over 
again,  where  he  has  said,  changing  it  a  little  bit:  "I  am  the  life  and 
the  light  of  the  world."  (D.  &  C.  12:9.)  When  he  was  in  the 
temple  shortly  before  the  crucifixion,  when  he  was  speaking  to  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


Father,  he  said  his  soul  was  troubled;  should  he  say  save  me  from 
this  hour;  yet,  he  added,  for  the  very  purpose  of  enduring  this  hour 
he  had  come.  He  asked  the  Father  to  glorify  his  name,  and  the 
Father  said:  "I  have  both  glorified  it,  and  will  glorify  it  again." 
(John  12:28.)  Some  of  the  people  thought  it  thundered;  others 
thought  an  angel  spoke.    Jesus  understood. 


There  has  always  been  to  me  a  great  lesson  in  that  incident. 
We  do  not  always  understand  the  Savior.  We  do  not  always 
understand  the  messages  from  heaven.  We  are  not  in  tune.  When 
the  Savior  was  introduced  upon  this  continent,  the  Father  spoke 
from  heaven.  The  people  heard  the  noise  but  did  not  understand. 
He  spoke  again,  but  they  did  not  understand.  Finally,  the  third 
time,  they  heard  and  knew  what  he  said:  "Behold  my  Beloved  Son." 


When  Jesus  was  before  the  Sanhedrin  on  the  night  before  the 
crucifixion,  Annas  and  Caiaphas  were  there,  and  the  rest  of  them. 
Finally,  they  said  to  the  Savior,  "Art  thou  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  Blessed?"  And  he  replied  to  them,  "I  am."  (See  Mark  14:61-62.) 

You  remember  when  he  was  met  by  Martha;  you  remember 
that  colloquy  at  the  time  of  the  death  of  Lazarus.  Just  before  Lazarus 
was  raised,  the  Savior  said  to  Martha,  in  the  course  of  their  con- 
versation and  near  its  end,  "I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life:  he 
that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me  shall  never  die." 
(John  11:25-26.) 

I  want  to  read  you  John's  testimony  found  at  the  beginning  of 
the  gospel: 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and 
the  Word  was  God.  The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  was  not  anything 
made  that  was  made. 

In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men. 

And  the  light  shineth  in  darkness;  and  the  darkness  comprehended  it 
not.  .  .  . 

And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld 
his  glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father,)  full  of  grace 


I  can  only  refer  to  the  great  vision  of  Stephen  and  to  his 
testimony  as  he  died.  After  they  had  gnashed  at  him  with  their 
teeth  and  beaten  him  with  stones,  he  cried  out  that  he  saw  the  Son 
sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father.  And  then,  as  the  scriptures 
say,  before  "he  fell  asleep"  from  his  beating,  he  implored  our  Heav- 
enly Father  to  forgive  them. 

Then  I  refer  to  the  First  Vision  and  its  testimony  when  the 


Lack  of  Understanding 


(III  Nephi  11:7.) 


and  truth.  (Ibid.,  1:1-5,  14.) 


Visions  Given 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  103 


Father  and  the  Son  came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  most  glorious 
vision  ever  recorded  in  history — two  beings,  the  one  introducing  the 
other,  and  the  other  giving  the  instructions.  I  am  always  lifted  up 
by  reading  what  is  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  of  the 
time  when  Joseph  and  Sidney  had  their  vision  and  another  testi- 
mony: 

The  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of  our  understandings  [they  record],  and 
they  were  opened,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round  about. 

And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  received  of  his  fulness; 

And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them  who  are  sanctified  before  his 
throne,  worshiping  God,  and  the  Lamb  who  worship  him  forever  and  ever. 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of 
him,  this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he 
lives!  For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God.  (D.6C  76:19-24.) 

Testimony 

Out  on  the  Mount  of  Olives  on  the  night  before  the  crucifixion, 
just  before  he  went  into  the  garden,  the  Christ  said:  "And  this  is 
life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  this  is  the  testimony  which  we  have. 
This  is  the  testimony  that  we  must  retain.  I  bear  you  my  testimony, 
born  of  the  spirit,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that  as  Peter  said:  "There 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we 
must  be  saved";  (Acts  4:12)  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father;  that  salvation  comes  through  him  and  only  through  him; 
and  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  we  have  the  restored  gospel,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  and  that  all  those  who  have  followed 
him  as  Presidents  of  the  Church  are  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators. 
I  bear  you  this  testimony  in  the  hope  that  it  may  strengthen  others 
as  well  as  strengthen  my  own,  and  I  pray  that  God's  choicest  bless- 
ings be  with  you,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

The  Deseret  Stake  Choir  will  now  sing  "Freedom  and  Brotherly 
Love,"  after  which  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President 
Frederick  Charles  Horlacher,  Nevada  Stake,  and  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  7  o'clock,  when,  in  accordance  with  the 
custom  of  the  Church,  the  General  Meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  this  building.  Only  those  holding  the  Priest- 
hood are  invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not  holding  the  Priesthood 
will  kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter  the  building.  That  ses- 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

sion  will  not  be  broadcast.  The  Assembly  Hall  will  be  opened  for 
television  with  loud  speakers,  and  likewise  Barratt  Hall. 

The  session  tomorrow  morning  at  10:00  o'clock  will  be  broad- 
cast over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
over  the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference.  That 
session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  station,  channel 
five. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on  which  Elder  John  A. 
Widtsoe,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker,  will  be- 
gin at  8:30  a.m.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must  be  in 
their  seats  by  8:20  a.m. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  comes  from  9:00  o'clock  to 
9:30  tomorrow  morning,  immediately  following  the  Church  of  the 
Air.  As  there  is  only  a  thirty  second  break  between  these  two  broad- 
casts, the  doors  will  not  be  opened  after  they  are  closed  for  the 
Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  until  after  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast is  over,  at  9:30. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  choir  music  for  today  has  been  by  the  Deseret  Stake  Choir 
with  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper  conducting  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

We  would  like  to  repeat  at  this  time  the  words  of  commendation 
and  congratulation  which  were  extended  to  this  fine  choir  by  Presi- 
dent McKay  at  the  close  of  the  morning  session. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  the  General  Sessions  of  the 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


Singing  by  the  choir  "Freedom  and  Brotherly  Love." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  Frederick  Charles  Hor- 
lacher  of  Nevada  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  October  1st  at 
10:00  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  October  1. 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10:00  a.m., 
Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  regular  Conference 
session  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  was  presented 
through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  coast-to-coast  network  throughout  the  United  States. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  long  before 
the  time  to  commence  the  broadcast,  as  were  also  the  Assembly 
Hall  to  the  south  of  the  Tabernacle  and  Barratt  Hall  (60  North 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  105 


Main  Street),  with  people  who  had  come  to  hear  the  broadcast  and 
to  attend  the  Conference  meeting.  In  addition,  many  people  who 
could  not  find  accommodation  in  any  of  these  buildings  assembled 
on  the  grounds  and  listened  by  means  of  loud  speaking  equipment 
that  had  been  installed.  The  services  were  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  which  was  presented  in  the  Tabernacle 
from  9:00  to  9:30  a.m.,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  network,  was  written  and  an- 
nounced by  Richard  L.  Evans  and  originated  with  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City. 

(Organ  played  "As  the  Dew,"  and  on  signal  the  organ  and 
choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end  of  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  announcer's  background. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls 
with  music  and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  affiliated  stations 
bring  you  at  this  hour  another  presentation  from  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle  organist,  and  the  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

We  open  with  a  hymn  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  sung  in  a  setting  by 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall:  "The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee;  Lo! 
Zion's  standard  is  unfurled.  The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day,  majestic 
rises  on  the  world." 

(Choir  sang:   "The  Morning   Breaks" — Cornwall) 

Announcer:  With  music  from  the  "Messiah"  we  hear  next  a 
sacred  song  written  around  a  glorious  text  taken  from  Isaiah:  "How 
beautiful  are  the  feet  of  Him  that  bringeth  good  tidings,  that  pub- 
lisheth  peace  .  .  .  that  publisheth  salvation,  that  saith  unto  Zion 
Thy  God  reigneth." 

(Choir  sang:  "How  Beautiful  are  the  Feet" — Handel) 

Announcer:  With  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  we  turn  an 
urgent  utterance  of  time's  passing  and  of  endless  undisclosed  events 
as  symbolized  by  Louis  Vierne  in  an  impelling  impressionistic  piece: 
"Westminister  Chimes." 

(Organist  selection:  "Westminister  Chimes" — Vierne) 

Announcer:  A  sacred  song  by  Tschesnokoff  on  the  heralding 
of  the  message  to  all  men  is  sung  now  by  the  choir:  "Their  voice 
is  gone  out  into  all  the  earth  and  their  words  unto  the  very  ends 
of  the  world." 

(Choir  sang:  "Their  Voice  is  Gone  Out" — Tschesnokoff) 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

Sometimes  we  become  impatient  with  the  present.  We  see  its 
evils,  its  uncertainties,  its  imperfections,  and  eagerly  we  wish  for  the 
day  when  things  will  be  different.  It  is  proper  and  expected  that 
immortal  man  would  hope  for  and  have  faith  in  a  finer  future — but 
of  utmost  importance  also  is  the  power  to  appreciate  the  present. 
No  matter  what  far  futures  lie  before  us  (and  we  earnestly  believe 
that  they  are  limitless  and  everlasting),  yet  always  we  live  in  the 
present.  We  may  sometimes  rebel  at  all  the  uncertainties  and  at 
all  the  undisclosed  events,  but  those  who  would  always  force  the 
future,  who  are  overly  impatient  for  it  to  unfold,  may  let  the  happi- 
ness and  opportunities  and  obligations  of  the  present  pass  them  by. 
Even  if  we  could  positively  forsee  the  road  far  ahead,  this  wouldn't 
alter  the  fact  that  we  always  live  now.  And  happiness,  after  all,  isn't 
so  much  a  matter  of  rushing  the  future  as  it  is  of  learning  to  "respect 
.  .  .  the  present  hour."  To  be  blind  and  indifferent  to  the  possibilities 
for  happiness  today,  is  too  much  like  closing  our  eyes  on  an  endless 
journey,  and  always  wondering  when  we  are  going  to  "get  there." 
There  is  always  that  which  leads  us  on,  that  which  keeps  us  full  of 
faith  concerning  the  everlasting  future,  but  an  important  part  of 
happiness  comes  with  learning  to  live  each  day — in  the  quiet  com- 
panionship of  loved  ones,  with  useful  and  well-loved  work  willingly 
done,  and  with  gratitude  for  friends,  for  food,  for  each  day's  pro- 
tection, and  for  each  day's  endurance.  Whatever  we  would  alter, 
whatever  evils  we  would  outlaw,  this  is  our  day,  our  generation, 
and  we  had  better  learn  to  live  and  to  "labor  while  it  is  called  today," 
being  mindful  of  each  day's  opportunities  and  obligations.  The 
far  future  may  be  better.  We  doubt  not  that  it  will.  But  when  the 
future  comes,  it  will  be  called  the  "present."  When  tomorrow  comes, 
it  will  be  called  "today."  "This  ....  is  the  day  for  men  to  per- 
form their  labors."  And  one  of  the  great  gifts  of  life — one  of  the 
surest  sources  of  happiness — is  the  power  to  appreciate  the  present. 

(Without  announcement:  Men's  Chorus  sang:  "Guide  Me  to 
Thee" — Huish-Cornwall ) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  men's  chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  recall  a  hymn  by  O.  P.  Huish,  as  arranged  by  Mr.  Cornwall, 
"Guide  Me  To  Thee." 

And  now  Alexander  Schreiner  turns  to  a  hymn  tune  by  Joseph 
J.  Daynes:  "Great  God  Attend  While  Zion  Sings." 

(Organ  selection:  "Great  God  Attend  While  Zion  Sings." 

Announcer:  In  closing  from  Temple  Square  the  choir  selects  a 
sacred  song  from  the  writings  of  Camille  Saints-Saens,  on  words 
paraphrased  from  scripture:  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  is  Come 
Behold,  thy  King  cometh  ....  Rejoice  with  all  thy  heart." 

(Choir  sang:  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  is  Come" — Saints- 
Saens-Rogers ) 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  107 


Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of 
the  everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  eleven  hundred  and  second  presentation  con- 
tinuing the  22nd  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  the  Columbia 
network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ.  The  Spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 


Immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  Broadcast,  the  proceedings  of  the  fifth  session  of  the 
Conference  commenced. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  welcome  everybody  to  Conference  this  morning. 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  One-Hundred  Twenty-first  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main  Street)  over  a  loud  speaking  system 
and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  five. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  of  the  Conference 
will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting  and  with  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  and  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  singing  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Prophet." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  John  L.  Clarke, 
Rexburg  Stake,  Idaho. 


Singing  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet." 

President  John  L.  Clarke  of  the  Rexburg  Stake  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Joseph  Smith's  First 
Prayer." 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  I  Third  Day 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

With  President  Smith  and  others  of  the  brethren  and  with  all 
of  you  I  miss  President  George  F.  Richards,  and  our  other  close 
associate,  Brother  Frank  Evans.  However,  who  knows  but  that  they 
may  be  nearer  to  us  than  we  think. 

Text 

"And  the  two  disciples  heard  him  speak,  and  they  followed 
Jesus. 

"Then  Jesus  turned,  and  saw  them  following,  and  saith  unto 
them,  What  seek  ye?  They  said  unto  him,  Rabbi,  (which  is  to  say, 
being  interpreted,  Master,)  where  dwellest  thou?"  (John  1:37-38.) 

About  forty  years  ago,  a  stranger  sat  in  this  Tabernacle  and 
listened  to  a  message  such  as  those  messages  to  which  we  have  listened 
throughout  this  conference.  My  informant  didn't  tell  me  who  spoke 
on  that  occasion,  but  he  thought  it  was  President  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose. As  the  stranger  and  his  host  walked  out  from  that  meeting,  the 
visitor  said  to  his  companion,  I  would  give  all  that  I  possess  if  I 
knew  that  what  that  man  has  said  this  afternoon  is  true." 

Well,  he  would  not  have  to  give  all  that  he  possessed  to  know 
that;  if  he  had  but  followed  the  example  of  these  two  disciples,  he 
might  have  learned,  as  they,  the  truth  of  what  President  Penrose,  or 
whoever  it  was,  gave  on  that  occasion. 

Path  to  Knowledge 

With  your  cooperative  help  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  I 
should  like  to  mark  out  that  path. 

"What  seek  ye?"  and  the  answer,  "Master,  where  dwellest 
thou?"  And  thereby,  "Come  and  see."  These  two  disciples  sought 
Jesus  upon  the  testimony  of  John  the  Baptist,  whom  they  had  been 
following,  and  who  only  a  day  or  so  before,  seeing  Jesus  walking 
near  Jordan,  said,  "Behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  which  taketh  away 
the  sin  of  the  world."  (John  1:29.)  It  seems  that  none  left  John's 
side,  at  that  time,  but  the  next  day  John  repeated  his  testimony,  and 
these  two  disciples,  one  of  whom  was  Andrew,  Simon  Peter's  brother, 
followed  Jesus.  We  can  only  conjecture  how  clearly  or  deeply  they 
sensed  the  fact  that  in  thus  seeking  the  Son  of  Man  they  were  taking 
the  first  step  toward  eternal  life.  But  this  we  do  know,  that  the  Savior 
has  given  the  divine  assurance  that  "...  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou 
hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

Quests  Determine  Successes 


Man's  success  or  failure,  happiness  or  misery,  depends  upon  what 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


109 


he  seeks  and  what  he  chooses.  What  a  man  is,  what  a  nation  is, 
may  largely  be  determined  by  his  or  its  dominant  quest.  It  is  a 
tragic  thing  to  carry  through  life  a  low  concept  of  it. 

The  great  writer  Carlyle  says,  "The  thing  a  man  does  practically 
believe,  the  thing  a  man  does  practically  lay  to  heart,  and  know  for 
certain  concerning  his  vital  relations  to  this  mysterious  universe,  and 
his  duty  and  destiny  there,  that  is  in  all  cases  the  primary  thing  for 
him,  and  creatively  determines  all  the  rest.  This  is  his  religion;  or 
it  may  be  his  mere  skepticism  and  no  religion;  the  manner  it  is  in 
which  he  feels  himself  to  be  spiritually  related  to  the  unseen  world 
or  no  world.  I  say  if  you  tell  me  what  that  is,  you  tell  me  to  a  very 
great  extent  what  the  man  is,  what  the  kind  of  things  he  will  do  is." 

The  All-Important  Quest 

The  disciples'  answer  to  the  question,  "What  seek  ye?"  gives 
a  key  to  man's  highest  and  noblest  quest:  "Master,  where  dwellest 
thou?"  saying  in  effect,  We  desire  to  know  thee  and  thy  teachings. 
They  stayed  with  Jesus  all  that  day,  for  it  was  the  ninth  hour.  And 
later  Andrew  sought  his  brother  Simon  and  said,  "...  we  have 
found  the  Messias,  which  is,  being  interpreted,  the  Christ."  (John 
1:41.)  "If  .  .  .  thou  seek  the  Lord  thy  God,"  is  the  promise  coming 
down  through  the  ages,  "thou  shalt  find  him,  if  thou  seek  him  with 
all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy  soul."  (Deut.  4:29.) 

This,  then,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  the  all-important  quest  of 
life:  To  seek  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  to  know  whom  is  eternal  life. 

How  We  May  Know  God 

The  messages  given  in  this  conference  have  directly  and  indi- 
rectly answered  the  question  of  how  we  may  know  him.  Jesus  ex- 
pressed it  clearly  on  one  occasion  when,  attending  the  Feast  of  the 
Tabernacles  in  Jerusalem,  he  declared  to  the  Jews  who  marveled  at 
his  preaching,  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  (John  7:16-17.) 

In  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  he  expressed  the  same  thought  in 
these  words:  "Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my 
Father,  which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  7:21.) 

His  Will 

These  statements  awaken  in  the  mind  of  the  honest  investigator 
the  great  question,  "What  is  God's  will?"  If  we  knew  it,  surely  we 
would  obey  it. 

Well,  Christ  has  not  left  us  with  that  question  unanswered. 
His  will  is  summarized  in  the  memorable  reply  he  gave  to  the  lawyer 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

who  asked  him  the  question  with  a  desire  to  entrap  him,  "Master, 
which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law?" 

Answered  the  Savior:  "...  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  they 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour 
as  thyself.  On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets."  (Matt.  22-36-39.) 

Further,  regarding  the  will  of  God,  the  Apostle  Peter  particu- 
larized when,  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost,  with  one  accord  the  people 
asked  him  and  the  other  Apostles,  "...  Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do?" 

"Repent,"  answered  Peter,"  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"For  this  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all 
that  are  afar  off  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call." 
(Acts  2:37-39.) 

To  repent — this  we  should  note  carefully — is  to  feel  regret, 
contrition,  or  compunction  for  what  one  has  done  or  omitted  to  do. 
It  means  to  change  one's  mind  in  regard  to  past  or  intended  actions 
or  conduct  on  account  of  regret  or  dissatisfaction.  It  means  to 
conquer  selfishness,  greed,  jealousy,  fault-finding,  and  slander.  It 
means  to  control  one's  temper.  It  means  to  rise  above  the  sordid 
things  which  pure  nature  would  prompt  us  to  do  to  gratify  our 
appetites  and  passions,  and  to  enter  into  the  higher  or  spiritual 
realm. 

Thus  we  become,  in  the  words  of  Peter,  "...  partakers  of  the 
divine  nature,  having  escaped  the  corruption  that  is  in  the  world 
through  lust."  (II  Peter  1:4.)  Then  Peter  adds,  "And  beside  this, 
giving  all  diligence,  add  to  your  faith  virtue;  and  to  virtue  knowl- 
edge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance;  and  to  temperance  patience; 
and  to  patience  godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness;  and  to  brotherly  kind- 
ness charity."  (Ibid.,  1:5-7.) 

Now  note  this  great  promise:  "For  if  these  things  be  in  you, 
and  abound,  they  make  you  that  ye  shall  neither  be  barren  nor 
unfruitful  in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  {Ibid.,  1:8.) 

Joy  Follows  Obedience 

These  are  the  signposts  along  life's  highway  which  if  followed, 
will  lead  any  man  to  do  the  Lord's  will,  to  know  his  Son,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  to  know  whom  is  eternal  life.  And  while 
we  are  gaining  this  great  knowledge  which  leads  to  immortality, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


111 


we  find  the  greatest  joy  in  mortality  that  can  be  experienced  by  the 
human  soul. 

"The  best  of  all  men  are  they  who  realize  in  daily  life  their 
luminous  hours  and  transmute  their  ideals  into  conduct  and  char- 
acter. These  are  the  soul  architects  who  build  their  thoughts  and 
deeds  into  a  plan,  who  travel .  forward  not  aimlessly  but  toward  a 
destination."  All  the  happiness  that  comes  with  spiritual  gifts  may 
be  theirs — love,  joy,  peace,  long-suffering,  gentleness,  goodness, 
faith,  meekness,  temperance,  friendship,  communion  with  the  infinite; 
I  repeat,  communion  with  the  infinite.  All  these  and  a  thousand 
other  blessings  that  God  gives  free  of  charge  are  theirs. 

"Earth  gets  its  price  for  what  earth  gives  us. 

"  'Tis  heaven  alone  that  is  given  away, 

"  'Tis  only  God  may  be  had  for  the  asking."  (Lowell.) 

Life's  Great  Exemplar 

High  in  the  scale  of  manhood  stand  those  who  ceaselessly  as- 
pire toward  life's  great  Exemplar.  This  great  Exemplar  is  Jesus 
Christ,  who  among  all  leaders  in  history  has  wielded  the  greatest 
influence  upon  the  human  family. 

You  have  asked  yourself,  as  have  thousands  of  others,  wherein 
lies  the  secret  of  his  greatness?  You  have  probably  answered, 
"Why,  it  is  in  his  divinity."  Well,  that  is  true,  but  he  came  to  earth 
as  you  and  I,  took  upon  himself  mortality,  and  he  exerted  an  in- 
fluence among  his  fellows,  in  keeping  with  the  natural  laws  just  as 
each  individual  here  exerts  a  natural  influence.  Wherein  is  the 
secret  of  his  greatness,  aside  from  his  divinity?  He  defeated  the 
lawyer  in  argument,  healed  the  sick  where  medicine  failed,  inspired 
the  greatest  music  ever  written,  filled  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
libraries  with  books,  inspired  missionaries  to  go  to  all  the  world, 
even  to  the  darkest  depths  of  Africa;  yet,  in  none  of  the  realms  in 
which  men  and  women  ordinarily  win  their  laurels  do  you  find 
historians  referring  to  Christ  as  having  succeeded. 

 ,   1  Supreme  in  Character 

"In  the  realm  of  character,"  writes  Charles  Jefferson,  "he  was 
supreme.  The  only  thing  which  places  a  man  above  the  beasts  of 
the  field  is  his  possession  of  the  spiritual  gifts  which  develop  that 
Christ-like  character.  Man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a  test  as  to 
whether  he  will  concentrate  his  efforts,  his  mind,  and  his  soul  upon 
the  things  which  contribute  to  the  comfort  and  gratification  of  his 
physical  instincts  and  passions,  or  whether  he  will  make  as  his 
life's  end  and  purpose  the  acquisition  of  spiritual  qualities." 

Aren't  you  students  thrilled — I  hope  you  are — with  the  recent 
tendency  among  the  alleged  best  thinkers,  and  I  think  some  of  them 
are,  particularly  the  man  who  wrote  Man  Does  Not  Stand  Alone, 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

in  their  appeal  for  humanity,  for  mankind  to  rise  above  the  low, 
the  sensual,  and  develop  the  spirit  that  is  within  man.  I  think  we 
have  made  the  turn  from  agnosticism  into  the  realm  of  spirituality. 

Priesthood  Means  Service 

Last  night  we  had  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall, 
Barratt  Hall,  an  estimated  14,000  men  who  hold  the  priesthood.  I 
don't  know  that  you  can  find  a  more  inspirational  gathering  any- 
where on  earth.  Just  to  be  with  them  was  an  inspiration.  To  those 
14,000  and  to  those  250,000  throughout  the  Church  who  hold  the 
priesthood  I  should  like  to  say:  Our  lives  are  wrapped  up  with  the 
lives  of  others.  We  are  happiest  as  we  contribute  to  the  lives  of 
others.  I  say  that  because  the  priesthood  you  hold  means  that  you 
are  to  serve  others.  You  represent  God  in  the  field  to  which  you 
are  assigned.  "Whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find 
it."  (Matt.  16:25.)  This  paradoxical  saying  of  the  Savior  contains 
the  crowning  element  of  the  upright  character — crowning,  I  say. 
Here  we  touch  an  important  phase  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Selfishness  is  subdued,  in  which  greed  and  avarice  must  be  sub- 
ordinated to  the  higher  principles  of  helpfulness  and  of  kindliness. 

"Do  His  Will" 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  (John  7:17.) 
Choosing  the  right  with  unvarying  and  unwavering  determination, 
resisting  temptations  from  within  and  from  without,  cheerfulness  in 
the  face  of  difficulties  and  experiences,  reverence  for  God  and  re- 
spect for  your  fellow  men,  willingness  to  assist  in  the  establishment 
of  the  kingdom  of  God — these,  though  you  might  miss  some  of  the 
emoluments  of  the  world,  will  bring  peace  and  happiness  to  your 
soul,  and  through  obedience  to  the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  bring  immortality  and  eternal  life.  Your  soul  will  rise  in 
ecstasy  and  clearer  understanding  of  that  great  word  of  God  given 
in  modern  revelation:  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.)  That 
friend  who  said  he  would  give  all  in  the  world  if  he  knew  it  was 
true  can  know  if  he  will  follow  the  example  set  down  by  the  Savior. 

In  conclusion,  as  sure  as  you  can  tune  in  on  the  radio  and  hear 
voices  from  afar,  so  sure  am  I  that  God  our  Father  lives,  and  the 
soul  of  man  can  commune  with  him  through  the  Holy  Spirit.  I 
give  you  that  as  my  testimony;  I  know  it.  So  sure  am  I  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  through  whom  and  only  through 
whom  may  mankind  find  happiness  and  peace.  So  sure  am  I  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  through  Joseph  Smith, 
and  the  authority  to  represent  God  on  earth  is  again  given  to  man. 
Oh,  may  he  give  us  power  to  proclaim  these  truths  to  an  unbelieving 
world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


113 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

May  my  words  express  a  love  for  God  and  mankind  while  I 
speak  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  A  few  friends  of  mine  from 
New  York,  members  of  the  Episcopal  Church,  are  in  attendance  at 
these  services.  At  home  they  attend  their  services  at  the  church  of 
St.  John  the  Divine,  one  of  the  most  beautiful  places  of  worship 
ever  erected  in  America.  We  bid  you  welcome.  We  are  glad  to 
have  you  hear  something  of  our  beliefs,  something  of  the  great 
truths  of  the  Living  God.  We  respect  you  in  your  worship  and 
your  religious  beliefs.  It  is  one  of  the  rich  sayings  of  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Prophet,  that  we  believe  in  worshiping  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  our  own  consciences,  and  we  allow  every  man  the  same 
privilege,  let  him  worship  how,  where,  or  what  he  may.  We  honor 
you  in  your  worship. 

Testimonies  of  Church  Members 

You  will  hear  from  this  pulpit  this  morning  the  testimony  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint  who  speaks.  Far  and  wide  in  the  world  you 
will  hear  the  same  testimony  concerning  this  latter-day  work  which 
was  given  to  the  world  by  the  word  of  God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  our  testimony  that  God 
has  given  us  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet,  was  the  founder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Testimony  with  us  is  a  very  divine  thing.  It  is  a  sacred 
trust  and  can  come  only  to  one  who  has  opened  his  heart  and  mind 
to  hallowed  living  with  earnest  prayer  and  deep  faith  in  God  and 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  most  divine  gift  of  all,  and  this  testimony  lies 
deep  in  the  heart  of  every  member  of  the  Church. 

A  Model  City 

When  the  Latter-day  Saints  crossed  the  Mississippi  River  in 
the  winter  of  1846  and  began  their  journey  to  the  far  west,  they 
left  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  a  city  of  beauty  and  high  religious  and 
civic  life.  It  had  been  built  within  a  short  period  of  time,  but  it 
came  to  be,  under  the  direction  of  the  Prophet  of  God,  the  greatest 
city,  morally,  in  America.  There  was  a  civic  consciousness  that  can 
well  become  the  model  of  the  cities  of  our  country  today. 

The  people  were  rich  in  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  they  had  a 
culture  all  their  own.  The  men  and  their  families  were  reduced  to 
humble  circumstances.  They  had  little  to  eat,  but  living  in  their 
wagons  drawn  by  mules  and  oxen,  they  were  making  their  way  to 
their  new  home  in  the  West.  They  carried  copies  of  the  Bible  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon  with  them.   They  had  come  to  love  books  of 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Dag 

literature  and  history,  and  they  sang  their  psalmodies  by  night  and 
by  day. 

Heritage  of  American  Indian 

We  have  heard  some  of  the  brethren  speak  of  the  American 
Indians  in  this  conference.  We  are  carrying  the  gospel  to  all  the 
tribes  of  America,  and  we  have  become  particularly  interested  in  the 
traditions  of  these  people.  The  Night  Chant  of  the  Navajo  and  the 
Hako  of  the  Pawnees  have  been  translated  into  English.  They  are 
mysterious  but  beautiful  dramas.  The  Indians,  if  understood,  de- 
veloped fine  artistic  feeling;  and  it  has  been  said  that  their  traditions 
will  yet  become  the  foundation  for  the  richest  American  literature 
and  feeling.  Everyone  knows  that  the  American  Indian  passed  on 
to  us,  and  through  us  to  the  world,  a  heritage  of  utility  beyond  the 
dreams  of  avarice.  This  was  in  such  homely  things  as  the  inestimable 
food  plants,  which  he  had  brought  from  the  wild  to  a  high  state  of 
domestication.  Few  seem  to  know  that  he  has  prepared  a  second 
heritage  of  beauty,  a  gift  of  fine  arts,  illusions,  and  immaterial  crea- 
tions which  rise  above  mere  utilities  as  the  mountains  rise  above  the 
plain.  "The  English  find  in  the  Arthurian  romance  a  never-failing 
inspiration."  Americans  in  the  future  will  surely  realize  an  epic 
grandeur  in  the  song  sequences  and  world  stories  of  the  first  Ameri- 
cans. We  know  that  they  once  had  their  testimony  of  the  Living 
God  and  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  The  following  short  poem 
will  give  an  idea  of  the  beauty  of  their  thoughts.  It  was  written 
by  a  Tewa  Indian: 

Oh,  our  Mother,  the  Earth;  oh,  our  Father,  the  Sky, 
Your  children  are  we,  and  with  tired  backs 
We  bring  you  the  gifts  that  you  love. 
Then  weave  for  us  a  garment  of  brightness; 
May  the  warp  be  the  white  light  of  morning, 
May  the  weft  be  the  red  light  of  evening, 
May  the  fringes  be  the  falling  rain, 
May  the  border  be  the  standing  rainbow. 
Thus  weave  for  us  a  garment  of  brightness 
That  we  may  walk  fittingly  where  birds  sing, 
That  we  may  walk  fittingly  where  grass  is  green, 
Oh,  our  Mother,  the  Earth;  oh,  our  Father,  the  Sky! 

High  Regard  for  Youth 

We  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  high  regard  for  the  youth  of  the 
world.  It  is  our  desire  to  have  our  homes  influenced  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,  that  our  children  may  grow  in  a  knowledge  of  what  true  re- 
ligion is.  I  think  we  are  all  agreed  that  one  great  need  of  the 
hour  is  to  bring  back  the  fine  concept  of  the  faith  in  God  which 
our  forefathers  had. 

Yesterday  Bishop  Isaacson  in  his  address  referred  with  feeling 
to  this  Tabernacle.    In  the  early  days  of  this  state,  the  Mormon 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


115 


pioneers  built  many  public  buildings  and  memorials  that  bore  wit- 
ness to  their  love  of  the  beautiful.  Everything  that  they  did  to 
create  homes  and  cities  showed  a  mingling  of  definite  religious  feeling 
with  the  creations,  and  they  thought  of  it  all  as  God's  work.  It  was 
from  their  faith  and  trust  that  their  genius  developed  in  the  days 
of  hardship  and  toil.  There  was  something  of  emotional  color  in 
what  they  did,  a  something  that  made  them  strive  to  unite  the  work 
of  their  daily  duties  with  the  light  of  heaven.  It  was  Ruskin  who 
said  that 

The  power  of  the  human  mind  had  its  growth  in  the  wilderness; 
much  more  must  the  conception,  the  love  of  beauty  be  an  image  of 
God's  daily  work. 

Mormon  Tabernacle 

This  Mormon  Tabernacle  expresses  something  of  the  strength 
of  character  and  religious  idealism  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
only  building  of  its  kind  in  the  world,  it  is  unique  in  the  history  of 
American  architecture.  While  its  massiveness  suggests  a  people 
strong  in  spirit,  conviction,  and  purpose,  its  lines  indicate  a  splendid 
adoption  of  scientific  principles  in  architecture.  It  is  a  plain,  oval- 
shaped  building,  studded  with  heavy  entrance  doors  all  the  way 
around;  there  is  no  attempt  at  ornamentation  of  any  kind.  The  build- 
ing is  a  fine  example  of  the  utilizing  of  the  resources  of  the  land  for 
the  purpose  of  having  a  place  for  divine  worship.  The  building  im- 
presses one  as  an  immense,  irresistible  force,  "humanly  super- 
human," an  expression  of  soverign  intelligence  and  feeling.  It  is  as 
the  great  Ibsen  has  said  of  all  art,  "an  illumination  of  life."  The  inter- 
ior impresses  one  with  its  majestic,  vaulted  ceiling,  and  "the  vastness 
of  the  place  grows  upon  one  and  inspires  one  with  mingled  feelings  of 
solemnity  and  admiration." 

World-Famed  Organ 

The  building  of  this  world-famed  organ  is  a  dramatic  story.  It 
is  inseparably  connected  with  the  name  of  Joseph  Ridges,  a  native 
of  England,  who  went  to  Australia  as  a  youth  and  later  emigrated 
to  America.  In  Australia  he  worked  in  an  organ  factory;  while  in 
Sydney,  Elder  Ridges  constructed  a  small  pipe  organ,  and  having 
joined  the  Church,  he  was  advised  to  take  his  instrument  to  Utah. 
He  immigrated  to  Utah,  and  shipped  his  little  organ,  in  tin  cases, 
to  San  Pedro  in  California;  he  afterwards  brought  it  to  Utah  by  ox 
team. 

In  the  early  sixties  Elder  Ridges  was  selected  by  President 
Brigham  Young  to  build  an  organ  in  the  Tabernacle.  After  sub- 
mitting preliminary  drafts  to  President  Young  and  his  counselors, 
Elder  Ridges  began  making  arrangements  for  the  construction  of 
the  instrument  and  was  assisted  by  his  associates,  Shure  Olsen,  Neils 
Johnson,  Henry  Taylor,  Frank  Woods,  and  others.  Meetings  were 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


held  with  these  men  almost  daily,  and  the  reports  of  each  man's 
work  were  heard.  While  one  was  collecting  various  specimens  of 
wood  from  the  canyons  of  Utah,  another  was  making  good  tools 
with  which  to  carve  the  wood,  while  still  a  third  man  was  experi- 
menting in  making  glue.  Specimens  of  wood  were  sent  by  people 
from  all  over  Utah,  and  it  was  finally  decided  that  the  best  wood 
was  found  in  the  hills  around  Parowan  and  in  Pine  Valley,  about 
three  hundred  miles  south  of  Salt  Lake  City.  It  was  a  fine  grain 
of  white  pine  variety,  free  from  knots  and  without  much  pitch  or 
gum.    For  the  large  pipes,  it  was  especially  well-adapted. 

The  large  pipes,  some  of  which  measure  thirty-two  feet,  re- 
quired thousands  of  feet  of  timber.  Over  the  long,  lonely  roads 
labored  the  oxen,  day  by  day,  hauling  the  heavy  logs  to  Salt  Lake 
City.  At  times  there  were  as  many  as  twenty  large  wagons,  each 
with  three  yoke  of  oxen  drawing  its  loads.  The  roads  were  rough 
and  dusty,  and  many  streams  had  to  be  bridged  that  the  wagons 
might  pass  over  them  without  difficulty. 

About  one  hundred  men  were  employed  constantly  in  the  con- 
struction of  the  organ,  and  it  was  dedicated  in  October  1867.  It  is 
a  majestic  creation,  and  to  this  day,  thousands  come  to  listen  to  its 
melodious  strains.   It  is  one  of  the  great  instruments  of  the  world. 


Casting  your  eye  to  the  pinnacle  of  the  center  tower  of  the 
temple,  you  see  Cyrus  Dallin's  statue  of  the  Angel  Moroni,  a  beauti- 
ful creation  by  that  noted  sculptor,  who  was  a  native  of  Springville, 
Utah,  and  who  died  recently  in  Boston.  I  had  the  honor  of  his 
acquaintance.  He  was  one  of  the  noblest  men  I  ever  knew.  One 
time  in  discussing  his  work,  he  said: 

To  believe  in  angels  marks  one  who  lives  near  to  his  God.  It  is  one 
of  the  most  beautiful  concepts  a  man  can  have.  I  am  glad  I  came  to 
believe  that  Moroni,  whoever  he  was  in  history,  came  back  to  earth  again 
as  an  angel  from  God's  throne. 

This  is  why  Dallin  created  his  masterpiece  on  yonder  temple. 


Wherever  you  go,  you  will  find  the  buildings  of  pioneer  days 
always  great  structures  with  artistic  features.  The  State  of  Utah 
had  its  beginning  over  one  hundred  years  ago  when  the  pioneers 
arrived  in  this  valley,  and  it  was  in  1 850  that  the  Territory  of  Utah 
was  organized.  The  people  brought  with  them  their  ideals,  which 
they  had  developed  at  Nauvoo.  That  city  had  a  university  and 
public  schools.  The  people  built  a  "Seventy's  Hall  of  Science," 
which  was  to  have  a  great  library.  This  is  what  a  Methodist  minister, 
a  Mr.  Briar,  wrote  concerning  the  city  before  the  Mormons  had  left 
it: 


Statue  of  Moroni 


Accomplishments  of  Pioneers 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


117 


Instead  of  seeing  a  few  miserable  log  cabins  and  mud  hovels,  which 
I  expected  to  find,  I  was  surprised  to  find  one  of  the  most  romantic 
places  I  had  visited  in  the  west.  The  buildings,  though  many  of  them 
were  small  and  of  wood,  bore  the  marks  of  neatness  which  I  had  not 
seen  equalled  in  this  country.  The  farspread  plain  at  the  bottom  of  the 
hill  was  dotted  over  with  habitations  of  men  with  such  majestic  pro- 
fusion that  I  was  almost  willing  to  believe  myself  mistaken;  and  instead 
of  being  in  Nauvoo,  111.,  among  Mormons,  that  I  was  in  Italy  at  the  City 
of  Leghorn.  ...  I  gazed  for  some  time  with  fond  admiration  upon  the  plain 
below.  Here  and  there  arose  a  tall,  majestic  brick  house,  speaking  loudly 
of  the  untiring  labor  of  the  inhabitants,  who  have  snatched  the  place  from 
the  clutches  of  obscurity,  and  wrested  it  from  the  bonds  of  disease;  and 
in  two  or  three  short  years  rescued  it  from  a  dreary  waste  to  transform 
it  into  one  of  the  first  cities  of  the  west.  ...  I  found  all  the  people  engaged 
in  business — much  more  than  any  place  I  have  visited  since  the  hard  times 
commenced.  I  sought  in  vain  for  anything  that  bore  the  marks  of  immor- 
ality. ...  I  could  see  no  loungers  about  the  streets,  nor  any  drunkards 
about  the  taverns.  ...  I  heard  not  an  oath  in  the  place.  I  saw  not  a  gloomy 
countenance;  all  were  cheerful,  polite,  and  industrious.  I  conversed  with 
many  leading  men  and  found  them  well-informed,  hospitable  and  generous. 
I  saw  nothing  but  order  and  regulation  in  the  society.  .  .  . 

Joseph  Smith  himself  became  a  student  of  Greek  and  Hebrew, 
and  classes  in  the  ancient  languages  were  organized  in  the  Kirtland 
Temple,  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  attended.  The  Mormon  pioneers 
established  schools  in  Utah  at  the  beginning  of  their  activities  here. 
In  1850  they  organized  the  first  university  west  of  the  Missouri  River, 
and  in  1851  a  library  was  brought  across  the  plains  by  ox  team.  It 
had  been  purchased  in  New  York  City  by  Dr.  John  M.  Bernhisel  and 
was  the  finest  collection  of  historical,  philosophical,  scientific,  and 
literary  works  in  the  history  of  the  American  frontier.  This  collec- 
tion contained  the  works  of  the  classical  writers  of  ancient  Greece: 
Homer,  Sophocles,  Plato,  Aristotle;  the  Latin  writers,  Virgil,  Tacitus, 
and  Herodotus;  and  the  modern  great  writers,  Shakespeare,  Milton, 
and  Bacon.  These  are  just  a  few  of  the  authors  of  the  books  that 
were  brought  in  this  great  collection.  The  library  from  the  beginning 
received  copies  of  the  New  York  Herald,  New  York  Evening  Post, 
the  Philadelphia  Saturday  Courier,  and  the  North  American  Review. 
Of  the  scientific  works  there  were  Newton's  Principia,  Herschel's 
Outlines  of  Astronomy,  and  Von  Humboldt's  Cosmos.  The  treatises 
on  philosophy  included  the  works  of  John  Stuart  Mill,  Martin  Luther, 
John  Wesley,  and  Emanuel  Swedenborg. 

Music  and  Drama 

The  ideals  and  daily  lives  of  a  people  are  judged  by  their  stand- 
ards of  amusements.  Among  the  fine  arts  encouraged  by  the  pioneers 
of  Utah  were  music  and  the  drama,  and  hardly  had  the  colonizers 
planted  their  fields  of  grain  and  begun  building  their  homes  when 
they  built  a  theater  in  this  wilderness — a  theater  that  in  pioneer  days 
noted  actors  visited,  among  whom  was  Sir  George  Pauncefort  of 
Drury  Lane  Theatre  in  London.  He  played  Hamlet,  and  from  that 
time  on  great  artists  graced  the  stage  of  the  old  theatre,  including 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

Edwin  Booth,  Lawrence  Barrett,  and  many  others.  So  successful 
were  these  early  pioneers  in  carrying  out  their  ideals  that  M.  B. 
Leavitt,  in  his  Fifty  Years  of  Theatrical  Management,  says: 

Sweeping  as  the  statement  may  seem,  I  do  not  believe  that  the  theater 
has  ever  rested  on  a  higher  plane,  both  as  to  its  purpose  and  its  offerings, 
than  at  Salt  Lake  City,  the  capital  of  Mormondom. 

Love  For  Beauty  and  Truth 

Even  when  the  early-day  Missionaries  went  to  England — and 
this  as  early  as  1837 — they  went  with  open  minds  to  learn  everything 
they  could  that  would  be  conducive  of  the  ways  of  God.  Let  me  here 
recite  to  you  an  example  of  love  for  beauty  and  truth  when  three 
missionaries  from  Salt  Lake  City  in  1857  wended  their  way  to  the 
Missouri  River,  called  as  they  were  on  missions  to  England.  Seymour 
B.  Young,  Phillip  Margetts,  and  David  Wilkins  pulled  their  hand- 
cart from  Salt  Lake  City  to  the  Missouri  River,  where  they  were  able 
to  take  a  train  at  Council  Bluffs  for  New  York.  During  that  long 
journey  on  foot — for  they  walked  all  the  way,  camping  at  night  on 
the  streams  of  water — they  would  have  their  supper,  consisting  of 
dried  meat  and  bread,  and  before  rolling  up  in  their  blankets  to  get 
their  rest,  they  always  had  their  prayer  to  God.'  One  night,  we  are 
told  by  one  of  these  men  in  his  journal,  they  sat  by  their  fire,  and 
Phillip  Margetts,  who  became  one  of  the  noted  actors  of  the  Salt 
Lake  stage  and  who  was  known  in  New  York  and  London  for  his 
ability  as  an  actor,  recited  the  words  of  Hamlet: 

.  .  .  What  a  piece  of  work  is  man!  how  noble  in  reason!  how  infinite 
in  faculties!  in  form  and  moving  how  express  and  admirable!  in  action 
how  like  an  angel!  in  apprehension  how  like  a  god!  the  beauty  of  the 
world!  the  paragon  of  animals! 

And  then  he  gave  another  of  his  favorite  quotations,  from  Macbeth: 

Tomorrow,  and  tomorrow,  and  tomorrow 

Creeps  in  this  petty  pace  from  day  to  day 

To  the  last  syllable  of  recorded  time; 

And  all  our  yesterdays  have  lighted  fools 

The  way  to  dusty  death.  Out,  out,  brief  candle! 

Life's  but  a  walking  shadow,  a  poor  player, 

That  struts  and  frets  his  hour  upon  the  stage, 

And  then  is  heard  no  more.  .  . 

Appreciation  of  Ideals 

To  the  youth,  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  Church,  if  you  could 
only  realize  how  our  forefathers  expressed  their  ideals  of  culture  and 
learn  to  abide  by  those  ideals  today,  you  would  know  what  happiness 
means.  If  this  appreciation  could  grow  in  your  hearts,  there  would 
be  a  revival  of  the  stage  as  we  used  to  have  it,  which  would  be  a  re- 
vival of  the  plays  of  Shakespeare  and  Moliere  and  Corneille,  and 
all  the  masters  of  the  great  literature  of  the  past.  There  would  be 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  119 


an  appreciation  of  music  and  the  drama,  of  literature  and  sculpture, 
and  the  old  ideals  would  come  back  to  us  as  expressed  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith: 

Organize  yourselves;  prepare  every  needful  thing;  and  establish  a 
house,  even  a  house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house  of  faith,  a 
house  of  learning,  a  house  of  glory,  a  house  of  order,  a  house  of  God. 
(D.  &  C.  88:119.) 


And  do  thou  grant.  Holy  Father,  that  all  those  who  shall  worship 
in  this  house,  may  be  taught  words  of  wisdom  out  of  the  best  books, 
and  they  may  seek  learning  even  by  study,  and  also  by  faith,  as  thou 
hast  said.   (Ibid.,  109:14.) 


O  Lord,  we  delight  not  in  the  destruction  of  our  fellow  men:  their 
souls  are  precious  before  thee.  (Ibid.,  109:43.) 


Remember  the  kings,  the  princes,  the  nobles,  and  the  great  ones  of 
the  earth,  and  all  people,  and  the  churches,  all  the  poor,  the  needy,  and 
the  afflicted  ones  of  the  earth.  (Ibid.,  109:55.) 

These  are  just  a  mere  semblance  of  the  teachings  of  Joseph 
Smith.  Think  of  what  they  should  mean  to  the  students  of  univer- 
sities and  colleges.  Think  of  what  America  will  regain  when  nations 
accept  this  divine  truth;  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  expressed  it: 

"I  teach  them  correct  principles  and  they  govern  themselves." 

To  the  youth  of  this  land  I  give  these  words  of  Sir  Francis 
Drake,  who  sailed  up  the  Pacific  Coast  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  then  on  around  the  world: 

Men  pass  away,  but  people  abide.  See  that  you  hold  fast  the  heritage 
we  leave  you,  yea,  and  teach  your  children  its  value,  that  never  in  the 
coming  centuries  their  hearts  may  fail  them,  or  their  hand  grow  weak. 
Hitherto  we  have  been  too  much  afraid.  Henceforth,  we  will  fear  only 
God. 

May  God  ever  direct  us  all  in  our  holy  work,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  Is  Burning." 

President  George  Albert  Smith 

I  am  sure  you  will  be  interested  in  knowing  that  all  of  our 
friends  who  came  to  Conference  today  are  not  in  this  building. 
There  are  2,850  in  Barratt  Hall  and  2,021  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in 
addition  to  the  few  that  are  in  this  building.  (Laughter) 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Many  who  are  not  visibly  present  may  be  listening  to  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  conference  by  reason  of  the  marvels  of  modern 
radio.  I  greet  you  all. 

Cause  of  Troublous  Conditions 

Much  is  said  and  written  these  days  about  the  troublous  con- 
ditions prevailing  locally,  nationally,  and  internationally.  The  war 
in  Korea  during  recent  weeks  has  perhaps  claimed  most  attention  in 
newspaper  headlines.  But  talk  of  war  and  rumors  of  war  also  has 
come  from  other  quarters.  Rising  costs  and  prices  have  likewise 
claimed  much  attention.  Labor-management  troubles  have  shared  in 
the  headlines.  Partisan  politics  have  stirred  up  anger  and  bitterness. 
Looking  in  any  direction  you  will  see  anything  but  harmony  and 
peaceful  conditions.  Why  all  of  this,  one  may  ask.  Are  all  these 
things  necessary?  Does  God  will  them?  In  their  ignorance  some 
say,  "Yes." 

During  the  three  years  we  traveled  about  Europe,  1933-36,  we 
learned  that  the  feeling  was  more  or  less  general  that  there  is  no  God 
whose  children  we  are,  and  who  loves  us  as  a  kindly  parent  loves 
his  children;  if  so,  he  would  not  have  permitted  the  great  World 
War  (the  first  one,  we  now  call  it).  Such  a  statement  implies  that 
God  is  responsible  for  wars — something  that  is  wholly  false.  God  has 
given  "free  agency"  to  every  child  born  into  mortality,  a  priceless  gift 
for  which  each  recipient  will  be  held  accountable.  God  is  not  respon- 
sible for  our  wars  nor  for  any  other  of  our  many  troubles  and  sinful 
acts.  This  truth  is  one  of  the  many  characteristic  teachings  of  Mor- 
monism,  defined  as  the  teachings  and  doctrines  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Law  of  Cause  and  Effect 

We  bring  our  troubles  upon  ourselves,  be  it  ignorantly  or  other- 
wise. We  live  in  a  world  and  a  universe  governed  by  immutable 
laws  which,  if  fully  obeyed,  result  in  beautiful  harmony  and  peace. 
This  is  true  of  both  the  material  and  the  spiritual  realms — so  teach 
authorities  in  the  fields  of  science  and  religion. 

According  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — ■ 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.  (D.  6  C.  130:20-21.) 

Human  experiences  testify  to  the  truth  of  these  statements. 
Scientists  have  long  taught  that  every  phenomenon  in  nature  is  the 


120 

Sunday,  October  1 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


121 


result  of  antecedent  causes.  This  fact  is  commonly  known  as  the 
law  of  cause  and  effect. 

Religion  a  Way  of  Life 

Last  April,  a  few  days  following  the  annual  conference,  a  lady 
spoke  to  me  on  the  street  and  asked  how  I  dared  to  mix  politics  and 
religion  in  a  conference  address.  My  reply  was  that  I  understand 
our  religion  is  essentially  a  way  of  life  and  therefore  covers  in  a 
broad  way  the  whole  field  of  moral  human  relations  as  indicated  by 
articles  eleven,  twelve,  and  thirteen  of  our  faith.  As  you  all  know, 
we  do  not  limit  our  religion  to  the  teaching  of  a  set  of  theological 
doctrines.  One  of  our  fundamental  teachings  is  that  faith  without 
works  is  dead.  ( See  James  2: 14-26. ) 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is 
in  heaven.  (Matt.  7:21.) 

So  said  Jesus  in  his  great  Sermon  on  the  Mount. 

On  another  occasion,  a  lawyer  asked  Jesus, 

Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law? 
Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all 
thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 
This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it.  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself. 

On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets. 
(Ibid.,  22:36-40.) 

These  teachings  we  wholeheartedly  accept.  We  interpret  the 
word  "neighbor"  in  this  commandment  as  meaning  our  fellow  men. 
In  a  brief  amplification  of  the  second  commandment,  Jesus  said: 

.  .  .  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even  so 
to  them:  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets.  (Ibid.,  7:12.) 

This  requirement  is  generally  called  the  Golden  Rule.  This 
requirement  is  implied  in  the  thirteenth  article  of  our  faith,  which 
is  stated  as  follows: 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and 
in  doing  good  to  all  men.  .  .  . 

Repentance  Needed 

I  began  this  talk  by  naming  a  few  of  the  many  troublous  con- 
ditions that  afflict  this  country.  Why  do  these  conditions  exist?  They 
are  all  man-made,  hence  could  be  eliminated  if  men  had  the  desire 
and  the  will  to  eliminate  them.  But  this  will  never  be  done  until  men 
repent  of  their  evil  ways  and  stop  doing  the  things  that  have  brought 
about  these  conditions.  To  be  more  specific,  among  other  things  we 
must  control  our  selfishness,  not  an  easy  thing  to  do;  for  selfishness 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

is  an  inherited  weakness,  an  inborn  quality  that  every  man  possesses 
to  a  greater  or  less  degree.  However,  it  may  be  manifest  in  ways  that 
are  commendable  or  damnable.  In  the  twenty-fifth  chapter  of  Matthew 
is  written  a  beautiful  parable  wherein  the  Lord  said, 

For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave  me  meat:  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye 
gave  me  drink:  .  .  . 

Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me:  I  was  sick,  and  ye  visited  me.  .  .  . 
(Matt.  25:35-36.) 

Asked  when  they  had  done  this,  the  Lord  replied, 

.  .  .  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me.  (Ibid.,  25:40.) 

Yes,  we  serve  the  Lord  by  unselfishly  and  righteously  serving 
our  fellow  men.  And  this  is  what  our  missionaries  at  home  and  abroad 
are  trying  to  do.  As  a  reward,  they  develop  a  deep  love  for  the  people 
among  whom  they  labor  and  experience  joys,  delights,  and  satis- 
factions to  a  degree  and  of  a  nature  that  enables  them  to  say  truth- 
fully they  greatly  enjoyed  their  missions  and  would  gladly  return  to 
them  if  called  to  return.  Yes,  these  missionaries  were  out  there  at 
their  own  expense  giving  their  full  time  to  unselfish  efforts  to  deliver 
a  message  that  if  accepted  and  lived  would  be  an  everlasting  blessing 
to  the  recipients. 

Cause  of  Troubles 

Many  different  answers  may  be  given  to  the  question:  Why  is 
the  world — people  in  every  land  and  clime — in  an  uncertain,  troubled 
condition?  The  nature  of  current  troubles  is  such  that  many  people 
are  looking  ahead  with  fear  and  almost  hopeless  despair  as  to  the 
outcome.  There  are  intelligent  and  informed  people  who  see  the 
third  world  war  as  imminent  and  certain  to  come  in  the  not  distant 
future.  And  hearing  or  knowing  something  of  the  enormous  des- 
tructiveness  of  current  implements  of  war,  they  have  reason  to  feel 
panicky  by  thoughts  of  World  War  III. 

But  why  is  there  danger  of  such  a  war  breaking?  One  answer 
is  the  inordinate,  wicked  selfishness  of  men  in  positions  of  power. 
Was  there  a  more  selfish,  greedy,  ambitious  national  head  than 
Adolph  Hitler  at  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II?  If  uncontrolled,  the 
selfishness  of  men  in  power  will  lead  to  the  deadliest  war  this  world 
has  ever  known. 

But  most  of  our  perplexing  troubles  are  not  of  an  international 
nature.  They  arise  in  our  homes,  communities,  and  nation,  and  many 
of  them  are  also  due  to  some  type  of  wicked  selfishness. 

What  is  the  basic  cause  of  the  inflationary  tendencies  of  the  last 
few  years?  I  know  the  answer  that  economists  usually  give.  It  is 
more  or  less  stereotyped.  I  am  not  an  economist,  only  a  layman,  but 
I  have  an  answer,  and  I  believe  it  is  a  correct  one.  The  basic  cause  is 
selfishness.  But  selfishness  may  be  commendable  or  damnable.  It  is 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


123 


commendable  selfishness  that  motivates  our  missionaries —  their 
desire  to  help  and  bless  their  fellow  men.  They  are  activated  by 
the  spirit  of  the  Golden  Rule.  But  selfishness  ceases  to  be  com- 
mendable when  it  goes  beyond  the  limits  of  the  Golden  Rule.  It 
then  becomes  more  or  less  sinful,  depending,  of  course,  on  the 
circumstances. 

Wage  and  Price  Increases 

About  the  time  of  the  surrender  of  Japan  in  1945,  the  officers 
of  some  labor  unions  began  to  stir  up  an  agitation  for  an  increase 
in  wages.  They  insisted  that  their  members  should  continue  to  have 
the  same  weekly  income  as  they  received  during  the  war — the  same 
for  forty  hours  each  week  as  previously  received  for  forty-eight 
hours.  Hence  a  demand  was  made  for  a  wage  increase  of  thirty  cents 
an  hour.  But  they  insisted  there  should  be  no  increase  in  prices,  no 
increase  in  the  cost  of  living — an  absurdity.  When  the  cost  of  pro- 
duction goes  up,  must  not  prices  also  go  up  if  business  is  to  continue? 
Well,  what  was  the  outcome?  There  were  demands,  strikes,  dis- 
turbances, etc.,  and  finally  a  settlement  was  made,  on  the  recommend- 
ation of  the  President,  giving  a  wage  increase  of  eighteen  and  one- 
half  cents  an  hour.  This  increase  became  general  in  all  the  big  pro- 
duction industries.  How  about  prices?  Of  course  they  rose — the  cost 
of  living  went  up.  On  this  account,  the  following  year  there  were 
more  demands,  agitations,  strikes,  and  finally  settlements  giving 
a  second  wage  increase,  followed  by  another  rise  in  the  cost  of 
living.  This  was  essentially  the  story  of  the  third  year,  of  the 
fourth  year,  and  now  of  the  fifth  year,  the  result  being  an  in- 
flationary spiral,  which  still  continues,  with  the  highest  wages  in 
history  for  labor  in  the  productive  industries  and  a  corresponding 
increase  in  the  cost  of  living.  It  seems,  therefore,  that  increased 
wages  are  largely  responsible  for  inflation  in  this  country  during 
recent  years.  But  a  sad  part  of  the  story  is  that  the  majority  of 
workers  in  the  country  have  been  wronged  by  the  inflation  that  has 
followed  wage  increases — their  incomes  have  not  increased  as  fast 
as  prices  have  risen. 

Inflation  Hurts  Millions 

In  another  way,  inflation  has  hurt  the  millions  of  loyal,  thrifty 
Americans  who  invested  their  savings  in  war  bonds.  A  depreciation  of 
the  purchasing  power  of  the  dollar  has  resulted  in  the  loss  of  many 
billions  of  dollars  to  those  who  bought  the  bonds.  The  many  millions 
of  insurance  policies  of  all  kinds  have  been  deflated,  of  course.  And 
these  facts  seem  not  to  have  bothered  in  the  least  those  who  are 
running  the  government.  At  any  rate,  I  have  not  heard  of  it.  As  a 
matter  of  justice  to  all,  should  not  the  government  do  everything 
feasible  to  keep  the  purchasing  power  of  the  dollar  constant?  Who 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Dag 

has  been  benefited  by  inflation?  Certainly  the  vast  majority  have 
been  hurt. 

Taft-Hartley  Law 

I  spoke  of  labor  union  bosses.  There  are  undoubtedly  officers 
of  labor  unions  who  are  good,  honorable  men  who  are  willing  to 
do  what  is  fair,  right,  and  just  in  their  dealings.  And  certainly  the 
majority  of  members  of  the  labor  unions  are  good,  loyal  Americans 
and  would  not  knowingly  be  guilty  of  doing  things  hurtful  to  their 
fellow  men.  But  it  appears  that  multitudes  of  these  are  misinformed  by 
some  of  their  crafty  leaders  who  have  told  them,  for  instance,  that 
the  Taft-Hartley  labor  law  enslaves  labor  and  that  all  its  congres- 
sional supporters  should  be  defeated  in  the  coming  November  elec- 
tion. But  if  I  understand  the  matter  aright,  this  law  does  limit  the 
power  of  selfish  union  bosses,  but  gives  a  correspondingly  larger 
measure  of  freedom  to  union  members  than  they  hitherto  had.  I  am 
willing  to  trust  informed,  honest,  loyal  American  workers.  All  I 
ask  union  members  to  do  before  they  vote  for  candidates  demanding 
the  repeal  of  this  law  is  to  make  a  study  of  the  law  that  their  leaders 
demand  shall  be  repealed  and  then  vote  conscientiously.  In  this 
country  the  ballot  is  secret.  Everyone  has  the  God-given  right  of 
free  agency,  but  God  will  hold  him  responsible  for  how  he  uses  it. 

Labor  Union  Bosses 

Speaking  of  labor  union  bosses,  may  I  ask  if  you  read  the  Deseret 
News  editorial  published  September  24,  1950,  entitled  "John  L. 
Lewis  Bares  Fangs  Again  With  a  Grisly  Grin  and  Growl."  In  that 
editorial  attention  was  called  to  an  epistle  written  by  Lewis  in  which 
he  says: 

Taft  was  born  encased  in  velvet  pants  and  has  lived  to  rivet  an 
iron  collar  around  the  necks  of  millions  of  Americans.  He  is  the  relent- 
less, albeit  witless,  tool  of  the  oppressors  of  labor. 

Do  you  see  why  I  urge  all  members  of  labor  unions  to  become 
familiar  with  the  provisions  of  the  Taft-Hartley  law  before  they 
vote?  Let  them  see  for  themselves  if  the  law  does  not  give  them 
freedom  rather  than  enslavement. 

Here  is  another  illustration  of  dogmatic  selfishness  shown  by 
union  bosses.  During  several  weeks  recently,  the  General  Electric 
Company  was  trying  to  negotiate  new  contracts  with  one  of  the 
unions  (a  new  one)  representing  its  employees.  In  the  company's 
News  Letter  of  August  4  were  these  statements: 

The  burden  of  I.U.E.'s  argument  is  now  admittedly  that  it  just 
doesn't  count  whenever  we  willingly  offer  or  put  into  effect  any  benefits 
that  do  not  publicly  appear  to  have  been  wrung  out  of  us  by  the  union. 
.  .  .  And  I.U.E.  argues  that  it  can't  afford  to  credit  us  with  anything 
we  are  willing  to  do  voluntarily.  .  .  .  I.U.E.  inferred  that  others  had 
never  been  rugged  enough  in  collectively  bargaining  with  us. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


125 


Do  these  statements  show  any  desire  to  be  fair? 
Price  Increases  Unwarranted 

Speaking  again  of  sinful  selfishness  as  the  chief  factor  in  pro- 
ducing inflation,  may  I  suggest  that  most  of  us  are  more  or  less 
guilty  of  sinful  selfishness — we  go  beyond  the  limits  of  the  Golden 
Rule  in  promoting  our  own  interests.  This  is  understandable  but 
hardly  justifiable  in  the  light  of  our  teachings.  To  the  extent  that  we 
do  thus  go,  we  violate  the  second  great  commandment,  do  we  not? 

When  the  Korean  war  broke,  prices  immediately  went  up.  Why? 
Because  of  the  sinful  selfishness  of  those  who  had  things  to  sell. 
When  goods  become  scarce,  their  price  is  increased.  Why?  For  the 
same  reason.  In  such  cases  the  production  costs  have  not  increased, 
but  the  selfishness  of  vendors  must  be  satisfied. 

About  forty-seven  years  ago  Cache  Valley  in  northern  Utah 
had  a  long  winter.  The  price  of  hay  for  cattle  rose  sharply.  Marriner 
W.  Merrill,  president  of  the  Logan  Temple,  was  told  by  the  manager 
of  his  farm  affairs  that  he  had  several  tons  of  hay  to  spare.  The 
demand  was  keen.  Fifteen  dollars  a  ton  and  more  was  being  offered. 
Brother  Merrill  was  silent  for  a  few  moments  and  then  advised 
that  as  much  hay  be  sold  as  could  be  spared.  And  the  price?  Eight 
dollars  a  ton.  That,  he  added,  is  a  fair  price  for  the  cost  of  production, 
but  do  not  let  more  than  one  ton  go  to  the  same  individual.  If  the 
spirit  he  indicated  prevailed  throughout  all  America,  how  much  better 
it  would  be  for  all  of  us  and  how  much  greater  our  happiness!  Then 
officials  of  corporations  and  labor  unions  would  be  motivated  to  be 
fair  and  honest  in  all  their  negotiations. 

Live  the  Golden  Rule 

Yes,  among  the  troublous  situations  that  America  faces  are 
inflation,  communism,  and  the  monopoly  of  labor  union  bosses;  and 
the  most  imminent  of  these  three  are  inflation  and  monopoly.  Both 
of  these  would  disappear  overnight  if  all  concerned  would  immedi- 
ately repent  and  live  the  Golden  Rule.  And  this  all  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  obliged  to  do  by  the 
covenants  they  made  in  the  waters  of  baptism  and  in  partaking  of  the 
holy  sacrament. 

Testimony 

Now  in  conclusion,  may  I  say  that  three  years  ago  last  April 
I  stood  in  this  pulpit  and  asked  the  question:  "Did  Joseph  Smith, 
the  fourteen-year  old  boy  out  in  the  woods  actually  and  really  see 
two  highly  glorious  heavenly  personages,  God  the  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ  the  Son,  and  hear  the  voice  of  each  one?"  If  a  fair,  openminded, 
competent  judge  were  required  to  make  a  thorough  study  of  all  rela- 
tive material  and  then  give  answer  to  the  question,  it  undoubtedly 
would  be  affirmative — so  strong  is  the  evidence.  For  myself  I  am  very 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

sure  that  just  as  certainly  as  you  are  sitting  there  and  I  am  standing 
here,  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  his  Church.  He,  himself, 
through  the  Holy  Ghost,  has  revealed  this  to  me.  In  answer  to  prayer 
I  have  been  the  happy  recipient  several  times  of  revelation  direct  from 
God,  given  verbally,  once  orally.  Hence  I  positively  know  that  he 
lives.  In  recent  years  I  have  publically  related  some  of  these  experi- 
ences many  times.  Many  thousands  of  other  Latter-day  Saints  have 
testimonies  as  strong  as  mine.  But  all  true  Latter-day  Saints  are 
firm  in  our  precious  faith.  May  all  of  us  let  it  be  our  guiding  light  and 
keep  us  loyal  to  the  leadership  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  earnestly  invite  each  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  say  a 
prayer  that  while  I  stand  before  you,  you  may  get  something  out 
of  what  I  say  that  will  do  you  good,  and  that  what  I  say  will  inspire 
what  you  get.  I  rely  wholly  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct  me 
on  this  occasion. 

Teachings  Not  New 

During  this  conference  I  have  listened  intently  to  everything 
that  has  been  said.  What  has  been  said  has  thrilled  me,  although 
I  have  not  heard  anything  much  that  is  new.  During  the  past  weeks 
I  have  read  many  conference  addresses  given  from  this  pulpit 
during  the  last  twenty-one  years,  and  I  have  not  found  much  in  those 
addresses  that  was  new,  but  I  thrilled  with  every  one  of  them. 

Truth,  sufficient  to  guide  us  through  our  lives  and  back  into  the 
very  presence  of  God,  was  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  during  the  early  years  of  this  last  dispensation.  The  Lord 
counseled  the  brethren  in  that  day  that  they  were  to  pretend  to  no 
new  revelation.  They  were  to  speak  and  teach  what  had  been  revealed 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  the  main,  that  is  what  we  are 
still  doing. 

I  know,  of  course,  that  there  have  been  new  revelations  given 
since  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  know  that  every  man 
who  has  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Church  from  then  until  now  has 
received  revelations  from  the  Lord.  I  know  President  Smith  receives 
them  today.  But  not  many  new  doctrines  have  been  revealed  since  the 
Prophet's  time. 

Build-Up  of  Spirits 

What  we  get  out  of  general  conference  is  a  build-up  of  our 
spirits  as  we  listen  to  those  particular  principles  and  practices  of  the 
gospel  which  the  Lord  inspires  the  present  leadership  of  the  Church 
to  bring  to  our  attention  at  the  time.  He  knows  why  he  inspired 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  127 


Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill  to  give  the  talk  he  just  gave.  He  knows 
why  he  inspired  the  other  brethren  who  have  talked  in  this  conference 
to  say  what  they  have  said.  It  is  our  high  privilege  to  hear,  through 
these  men,  what  the  Lord  would  say  if  he  were  here.  If  we  do  not 
agree  with  what  they  say,  it  is  because  we  are  out  of  harmony  with 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Welfare  Work 

I  desire  to  say  a  word  or  two  about  the  work  that  I  give  a  great 
deal  of  my  time  to,  the  welfare  work.  I  hope  they  will  be  worth  re- 
membering. There  are  few  of  the  brethren  who  so  consistently  go  to 
all  the  stakes  in  the  Church  as  I.  I  go  because  I  am  sent.  I  feel  very 
humble  in  it  and  very  grateful  that  the  brethren  have  enough  con- 
fidence in  me  to  send  me  about  the  Church  to  tell  the  stake  presidents, 
bishops,  Relief  Society  presidents,  and  other  welfare  workers  some 
things  about  the  welfare  program. 

I  thank  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  your  faithfulness  in 
coming  to  the  regional  and  stake  welfare  meetings  that  we  call.  I  have 
never  called  one,  and  I  never  shall  call  one  that  is  not  authorized 
by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church.  Last  year,  of  the  173  stake  presi- 
dents invited  to  attend  the  welfare  budget  meetings,  163  attended. 
Of  the  172  Relief  Society  stake  presidents  invited,  163  attended. 
That  made  the  attendance  record  of  the  Relief  Society  presidents 
about  55/100ths  of  one  percent  better  than  the  record  of  the  stake 
presidents.  The  record  of  attendance  of  the  bishops  and  the  inde- 
pendent branch  presidents  was,  however,  61/100ths  of  one  percent 
better  than  the  record  of  attendance  of  ward  and  independent  branch 
Relief  Society  presidents.  Thus  the  attendance  record  of  the  brethren 
was  about  5/100ths  of  one  percent  better  than  that  of  the  women — 
quite  a  record  for  men.  Welfare  workers  who  attended  those  meet- 
ings traveled  488,323  man-miles  coming  and  going.  You  have,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  made  a  marvelous  record  of  loyalty  to  the 
welfare  plan. 

1951  Welfare  Budget 

Just  now  we  are  in  the  midst  of  touring  the  Church  with  the 
proposed  1951  welfare  production  budget.  We  are  not  inviting  so 
many  people  to  the  meetings  this  year  as  we  did  last  year,  because 
we  want  to  get  down  in  our  conferences  with  you  to  the  discussion 
of  some  of  the  details  of  the  welfare  operations.  We  do  not  feel 
we  need  to  promote  the  welfare  program  as  an  idea  so  much  as  we 
have  done  in  the  past,  because  we  believe  that  most  of  the  people 
are  now  converted.  But  we  do  need  to  perfect  its  operation. 

First,  we  want  to  get  to  the  point  in  the  program  just  as  soon 
as  possible  where  the  necessity  to  call  upon  the  Saints  for  cash 
contributions  to  meet  the  annual  Church  welfare  production  budget 
is  eliminated.  We  are  presently  doing  two  things  to  accomplish  this. 
In  the  first  place,  under  the  direction  of  the  brethren  we  have  taken 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

out  of  the  proposed  budget  a  couple  of  items  which  required  the 
raising  of  cash:  transportation  of  coal  and  cash  for  the  purchase  of 
cloth.  As  a  result,  the  1951  welfare  production  budget  will  be 
$132,000  less  than  it  would  have  been  with  these  two  items  left  in. 

Second,  with  these  items  eliminated,  we  are  urging  that  the 
budget  be  produced  in  commodities  and  not  in  cash.  This  can  only 
be  done  by  getting  in  hand  the  means  with  which  to  produce  the 
commodities — permanent  welfare  production  projects.  We  have 
nearly  enough  projects  to  produce  our  budget  needs,  but  we  are 
a  little  out  of  balance.  Some  projects  are  larger  than  they  need  be, 
while  in  some  places  there  are  no  production  projects.  If,  somehow, 
those  who  have  no  projects  could  buy  into  the  larger  projects,  so 
that  all  the  production  could  be  turned  into  the  welfare  program,  it 
would  help.  All  those  who  have  no  projects  will,  of  course,  need 
to  get  them.  We  are  stressing  this  matter  as  we  go  about  the  Church. 

Not  a  Dole 

Another  thing  we  are  doing  is  emphasizing  the  counsel  given 
by  the  brethren  from  the  beginning  that  the  welfare  program  must 
not  become  a  dole.  Our  people  must  be  given  the  opportunity  to  work 
for  what  they  get.  In  the  spirit  of  the  Master  let  us  give  them  an 
opportunity  to  work  so  that  we  do  not  violate  the  primary  purpose 
of  the  welfare  plan.  When  they  set  if  up,  the  brethren  said,  "Our 
primary  purpose  was  to  set  up,  insofar  as  it  might  be  possible,  a 
system  under  which  the  curse  of  idleness  would  be  done  away  with, 
the  evils  of  a  dole  abolished,  and  independence,  industry,  thrift,  and 
self-respect  be  once  more  established  among  our  people.  .  .  .  Work 
is  to  be  re-enthroned  as  the  ruling  principle  of  the  lives  of  cur 
Church  membership." 

Principle  of  the  Fast 

Now  one  more  point:  We  desire  to  encourage  throughout  the 
Church  the  principle  of  the  fast — abstaining  from  the  eating  of 
two  meals  on  fast  day  and  giving  the  equivalent  thereof  to  the 
bishop.  A  minimum  fast  offering  is  the  equivalent  of  the  two  meals, 
and  a  maximum  fast  offering  may  be  measured  by  the  greatness  of 
one's  heart.  God  bless  you  that  you  may  continue  in  this  great  pro- 
gram with  all  the  energy  of  your  souls. 

If  I  had  time.  I  would  like  to  give  you  a  lesson  on  it  out  of  the 
first  six  verses  of  the  105th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
but  I  do  not  have  time.  I  will  simply  say  this:  The  reason  the  Saints 
did  not  go  back  into  Jackson  County,  Missouri,  and  redeem  Zion  at 
the  time  the  Prophet  came  from  Kirtland  with  Zion's  Camp  was 
because  the  members  of  the  Church  in  Zion  would  not  impart  of 
their  substance,  as  becometh  Saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted  among 
them.  We  may  find  that  just  such  a  consequence  rests  upon  our 
performance. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


129 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  another  great  conference  of  the  Church  draws  near  its 
closing  session,  it  remains  for  each  here  in  attendance  at  the  confer- 
ence or  listening  on  the  air  to  formulate  for  himself  that  which  to 
him  has  been  the  cardinal  teaching  and  central  theme  of  the  con- 
ference and  then  to  apply  it  in  his  own  practice.  As  I  have  sat  here, 
I  have  tried  to  do  that  for  myself.  I  would  like  to  tell  you  what  my 
feelings  are  about  that  which  has  transpired  in  this  conference. 

Influence  of  President  Richards 

The  first  thing  which  has  characterized  it  has  been  the  feeling, 
particularly  among  the  members  of  the  Twelve  and  to  some  degree 
by  all  the  General  Authorities,  and  put  into  words  by  President 
McKay  this  morning,  that  this  conference  has  been  greatly  in- 
fluenced by  President  George  F.  Richards,  and  likewise,  perhaps,  in 
a  degree,  by  all  those  who  have  departed  this  life  as  leaders  of  the 
Church.  President  George  F.  Richards  was  one  of  the  noblest  among 
them.  I  have  felt  his  influence  as  President  McKay  has  expressed 
our  feelings. 

False  Prophets  to  Deceive 

The  second  thing,  that  to  me  has  been  the  cardinal  theme, 
is  that  we  must  prepare  to  meet  that  of  which  the  Master  warned 
when  the  disciples  asked  him  how  they  would  know  that  his  coming 
again  was  nigh  at  hand.  He  said  to  them: 

For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and  shall  shew 
great  signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  de- 
ceive the  very  elect.   (Matthew  24:24.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  his  inspired  version  of  that  same 
scripture,  added  these  significent  words:  "who  are  the  elect,  according 
to  the  covenant."  This  is  what  has  been  said,  in  effect,  in  this  con- 
ference: Unless  every  member  of  this  Church  gains  for  himself 
an  unshakable  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  Church,  he  will  be 
among  those  who  will  be  deceived  in  this  day  when  the  "elect 
according  to  the  covenant"  are  going  to  be  tried  and  tested.  Only 
those  will  survive  who  have  gained  for  themselves  that  testimony. 

Concern  of  Missionary 

I  heard  from  a  young  man  up  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion, who  had  only  been  there  a  few  months — a  fine,  stalwart, 
handsome  young  man — he.  had  just  received  what  he  had  interpreted 
to  himself  as  a  testimony.  He  told  how  he  had  been  anxious  in  the 
circle  where  he  had  lived,  because  members  of  his  own  household 
and  the  circle  of  his  friends  had  ridiculed  ofttimes,  after  the  con- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


ference  had  ended,  what  had  been  said  in  those  conferences,  and 
he  had  been  shocked  about  it.  Then  he  said,  as  the  tears  filled  his 
eyes  after  he  had  borne  his  own  testimony,  "If  I  could  hear  my 
own  father  and  mother  stand  up  and  bear  their  own  testimonies,  it 
would  be  the  greatest  thrill  of  my  life." 


The  other  day  one  of  the  bishops  from  the  Big  Horn  country 
of  Wyoming  came  to  my  office,  and  told  me  that  frequently  there 
came  to  their  conferences  visiting  brethren  who  talked  about  those 
who  criticize  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  about 
the  "isms"  that  are  springing  up  in  apostate  groups.  He  said,  "You 
know,  Brother  Lee,  our  people  don't  know  what  these  brethren  are 
talking  about  up  there  in  our  ward.  We  never  hear  these  criticisms. 
They  accept  you  brethren  as  the  representatives  of  the  Living  God, 
and  we  don't  hear  what  they  say  is  happening  elsewhere." 

As  I  thought  of  that  bishop's  statement,  I  remembered  the  words 
of  Brigham  Young: 

Were  your  faith  concentrated  upon  the  proper  object,  your  confidence 
unshaken,  your  lives  pure  and  holy,  every  one  fulfilling  the  duty  of  his 
or  her  calling  according  to  the  priesthood  and  capacity  bestowed  upon 
you,  you  would  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  it  would  be  as  im- 
possible for  any  man  to  deceive  and  to  lead  you  to  destruction  as  for  a 
feather  to  remain  unconsumed  in  the  midst  of  intense  heat. 

And  then  this: 

I  am  more  afraid  that  this  people  have  so  much  confidence  in  their 
leaders  that  they  will  not  inquire  for  themselves  of  God  whether  they  are 
being  led  by  him.  I  am  fearful  they  settle  down  in  a  state  of  blind  security, 
trusting  their  eternal  destiny  in  the  hands  of  their  leaders  with  a  reck- 
less confidence  that  in  itself  would  thwart  the  purposes  of  God  in  their 
salvation,  and  weaken  that  influence  they  could  give  their  leaders  if  they 
know  for  themselves  by  the  revelations  of  Jesus  Christ  that  they  are 
led  in  the  right  way.  Let  every  man  and  woman  know  by  the  whisperings 
of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  themselves  whether  their  leaders  are  walking  in 
the  way  the  Lord  dictates  or  not. 


To  me,  there  is  a  tremendous  truth.  It  is  not  alone  sufficient 
for  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  follow  our  leaders  and  to  accept 
their  counsel,  but  we  have  the  greater  obligation  to  gain  for  our- 
selves the  unshakable  testimony  of  the  divine  appointment  of  these 
men  and  the  witness  that  what  they  have  told  us  is  the  will  of 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  had  a  shock  and  a  startling  truth  borne  in  upon  me  by  an 
experience  six  months  ago,  when  following  April  conference,  the 
General  Authorities  and  their  wives  met  in  a  semi-annual  party  and 
dinner  up  at  our  Institute  of  Religion  near  the  University  of  Utah. 
As  a  part  of  the  program,  the  committee  in  charge  had  arranged 


Criticism  of  Authorities 


Divine  Appointment  of  Leaders 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


131 


for  a  recital  of  the  conferences  a  hundred  years  ago,  from  the  pre- 
ceding October.  They  read  the  minutes  from  the  conference  of  1 849. 
They  then  brought  quotations  from  the  sermons  delivered  by  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  in  October  1899. 
Then  they  reproduced  on  the  public  address  system  quotations  from 
the  sermons  of  every  one  of  the  present  Presidency  and  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  When  they  put  into  my  hands  the  quotation  from 
the  one  in  that  other  Council  fifty  years  ago,  whose  place  I  was  now 
filling,  I  was  startled,  for  I  was  to  read  the  last  recorded  statement 
of  a  man  who  lost  his  standing  in  the  Council  and  later  his  mem- 
bership in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  was  more  startled  when 
I  read  this  statement  from  his  last  recorded  sermon.  This  is  what  he 
had  said: 

I  know  that  the  children  of  men  never  were  converted  till  they  saw 
that  the  power  of  God  rested  upon  his  servants,  and  the  spirit  of  God 
went  down  into  their  hearts  like  fire. 

He  knew,  and  he  came  to  know  by  the  bitter  experience  of  his 
own  apostasy  that  the  thing  which  lost  him  his  standing  in  the 
Church  was  that  he  lost  his  testimony  of  the  divine  appointment  of 
the  prophets  of  God,  and  that  the  fire  which  once  burned  in  his 
heart  had  gone  out.  When  I  realized  that  one  like  him  had  failed, 
and  that  I  was  now  sitting  in  the  chair  once  occupied  by  him,  it  gave 
me  a  tremendous  feeling  of  responsibility  and  a  fear  lest  I  might 
fall,  by  foolishness  and  because  of  the  deceit  and  cunning  which  I 
have  come  to  believe  may  overtake  any  of  us.  False  prophets  and 
christs,  as  foretold  by  the  Savior,  may  come  to  deceive  us  not  alone 
in  the  name  of  religion,  but  if  we  can  believe  the  history  of  Italy 
and  Germany  and  Russia,  they  may  come  under  the  label  of  poli- 
ticians or  of  social  planners  or  so-called  economists,  deceitful  in 
their  offerings  of  a  kind  of  salvation  which  may  come  under  such 
guise. 

Personal  Testimony 

Five  years  ago,  following  the  death  and  burial  of  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  met  in  one  of  the  most 
solemn  meetings  I  have  ever  attended  as  one  of  the  junior  members 
of  the  Council,  in  one  of  the  upper  rooms  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple. 
They  had  met  there  to  consider  the  appointment  of  a  succeeding 
President  of  the  Church.  The  chairs  usually  occupied  by  the  First 
Presidency  were  vacant,  and  for  hours  the  members  of  the  Twelve, 
each  in  his  turn,  expressed  his  feelings  fully  on  the  matter  of  the 
new  appointment.  After  the  decision  was  made,  President  George 
Albert  Smith  took  his  place  and  called  to  his  side  President  Clark 
and  President  McKay.  There  was  something  that  happened  to  me 
in  that  meeting.  I  was  willing  then,  as  always,  to  listen  to  the  brethren 
and  to  follow  them,  but  as  they  took  their  places  at  the  front  of 
our  council  room,  there  came  into  my  heart  a  testimony  and  an 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Thitd  Day 

assurance  that  these  were  the  men  who  had  been  chosen  by  God's 
appointment,  and  I  knew  it  because  of  the  revelation  of  the  Spirit 
to  my  own  soul. 

May  I  close  with  only  this  one  thought  taken  from  one  of 
our  own  hymns: 

Soon  the  earth  will  hear  the  warning, 
Then  the  judgments  will  descend! 
Oh!  before  the  days  of  sorrow, 
Make  the  Lord  of  Hosts  your  friend. 

Then,  when  dangers  are  around  you. 
And  the  wicked  are  distressed, 
You,  with  all  the  Saints  of  Zion, 
Shall  enjoy  eternal  rest. 

From  "See,  the  Mighty  Angel  Flying" 

God  help  us  to  gain  that  divine,  assuring  testimony  which  I  have 
in  my  soul.  I  know  that  God  lives  and  know  that  this  is  his  work. 
I  know  that  these  men  are  divinely  appointed  servants  of  God. 
And  I  bear  you  this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith 

We  have  a  good  many  people  come  here,  but  not  many  have  the 
privilege  you  have  had  of  sitting  and  listening  to  men  whose  lives  are 
devoted  to  the  service  of  the  Master. 

Brother  Harold  B.  Lee,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
spoken  to  us  and  he  will  be  our  last  speaker  this  morning. 

I  never  come  to  this  Tabernacle  that  I  do  not  feel  an  unusual 
presence,  when  I  think  of  how  it  was  erected  and  how  the  people 
struggled  to  prepare  a  place  for  worship,  and  the  temple  to  the 
east  of  us,  the  Assembly  Hall,  all  these  walls  that  hold  these  build- 
ings— there  is  not  anything  in  all  the  world  like  them.  Many  people 
would  like  to  take  down  these  walls.  I  want  to  say  these  walls  are 
sacred  to  me  because  I  have  played  around  them  ever  since  I  was 
a  child  and  I  have  seen  hundreds  of  men  come  and  go,  working 
around  here. 

This  morning  we  are  in  comfort.  The  houses  that  we  are  in,  and 
the  adjoining  houses,  are  kept  in  order.  The  beautiful  grounds  with 
flowers  and  shrubs,  hundreds  of  people  remark  they  have  never 
seen  anything  like  it  in  all  the  world,  and  yet  this  has  all  been  done 
by  men,  and  some  women,  who  desired  to  make  the  place  where  we 
worship  our  Heavenly  Father  as  comfortable  and  delightful  as 
possible. 

By  the  way,  that  brings  to  my  mind  the  fact  that  one  of  the 
most  faithful  workers  we  have  had  on  this  block,  looking  after  this 
building  and  other  things,  Brother  Ben  Handley,  is  at  home  sick, 
unable  to  be  with  us.  He  has  always  been  here,  always  been  on  hand, 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  133 


and  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  realize  how  much  one  person  may 
mean. 

As  I  look  through  the  congregation  this  morning  I  see  Aunt 
Mary  Smith,  the  widow  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  one  of  the 
older  people  of  the  Church.  She  nearly  always  sits  in  the  same  place, 
or  about  the  same  place,  and  I  am  delighted  to  see  her  here  this 
morning.  I  also  miss  Sister  Ruth  May  Fox,  who  is  past  ninety  years 
of  age  and  not  able  to  be  here,  but  I  am  satisfied  she  will  be  listening 
in.  I  hope  she  will  hear  her  name  mentioned  from  this  House  of  the 
Lord.  We  must  not  only  appreciate  our  own  blessings  and  our  privi- 
leges, but  we  should  keep  in  mind  the  others  who  need  us,  and  I  am 
sure  if  we  do  we  will  continue  to  enjoy  what  we  have  now  and  the 
Lord  will  add  to  it. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus" 
from  the  "Mount  of  Olives." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Shirley  M. 
Palmer,  Oneida  Stake,  Idaho,  after  which  the  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  stations 
named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference.  That  session  will  also  be 
televised  over  the  KSL  television  station,  channel  five. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal 
of  this  meeting  over  the  loudspeaking  system  on  the  grounds. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

After  singing  and  prayer  we  will  be  dismissed  until  2  o'clock. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take  from  this  house  to  our  homes, 
and  wherever  we  may  go,  the  influence  that  comes  from  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  that  is  always  here  when  we  meet  in  worship, 
and  keep  it  with  us  during  the  remainder  of  our  lives. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "Hallelujah  Chorus." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  Shirley  M.  Palmer 
of  the  Oneida  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the 
Tabernacle  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the 
services. 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  choral  singing 
for  this  session. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  closing  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Semi- Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main)  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  throught  KSL,  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  station, 
channel  five. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  this  service  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing 
"Father,  Be  Ever  Near  Us." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Perry  Edward 
Tingey  of  the  Sacramento  Stake,  California. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "Father  Be  Ever  Near  Us." 
The  invocation  was  offered  by  President  Perry  Edward  Tingey 
of  the  Sacramento  Stake. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  mentioned  the  names  of  one  or  two  people  this  morning 
that  have  passed  away,  and  I  think  we  should  call  attention  to 
one  person  whose  name  was  not  mentioned,  whom  all  of  you  do  not 
know,  but  many  of  you  do,  and  that  is  Roscoe  W.  Eardley,  one  of 
the  most  faithful  workers  in  the  Welfare  Organization.  It  so  hap- 
pened that  he  had  his  first  breakdown  several  years  ago  when  I 
was  with  him  at  a  stake  conference,  and  I  did  not  know  that  he  was 
going  to  get  well  again,  but  the  Lord  blessed  him  and  he  came  along 
and  did  a  wonderful  work  after  that  time. 

I  also  wish  to  mention  Sister  Augusta  Grant.  She  has  always 
been  here  when  it  was  possible  for  her  to  do  so.  It  is  not  possible 
for  her  to  be  out  of  the  house  and  I  am  sure  we  all  remember  her  as 
one  of  the  lovely  souls  who  have  given  cheer  wherever  they  have 
gone.  She  is  way  past  ninety  years  of  age  and  I  presume  we  might 
expect  she  would  not  have  much  strength  at  that  age. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Jesus,  Name  of  Wondrous 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


135 


Love,"  after  which  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the 
Twelve  will  address  us. 


Singing  by  the  choir  "Jesus,  Name  of  Wondrous  Love." 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  full  of  anxiety  during 
all  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  It  has  been  said  that  everything 
comes  to  him  who  waits.  I  have  been  waiting  and  waiting,  and  here 
I  stand  well-nigh  exhausted.  It  reminds  me  of  a  young  man  who 
stood  before  his  fellow  missionaries  over  in  Norway  to  bear  his 
testimony  for  the  first  time.  He  said,  "I  am  told  when  you  are  weak, 
you  are  strong;  but  when  I  am  weak,  I'm  just  weak." 

Expansion  of  Church 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  growth  and  expansion  of  the  Church,  in 
the  marvelous  progress  which  it  has  made  since  it  was  organized  in 
the  year  1830. 1  am  proud  of  the  achievements  of  the  men  and  women 
who  first  planted  their  feet  in  these  Rocky  Mountains  and  laid  the 
foundation  for  all  we  have  and  are.  I  am  also  proud  of  the  men 
and  women  who  built  the  great  city  of  Nauvoo  and  erected  there 
a  temple  of  the  Lord.  I  am  equally  proud  of  those  who  built  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple  in  times  of  great  hardship  and  adversity.  I  rejoice  in  the 
success  which  has  attended  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  dispensation, 
and  particularly  in  the  success  of  the  great  missionary  enterprise 
which  is  going  forward  in  the  world.  I  tell  you  the  opposition  is 
crumbling,  and  the  Lord's  work  is  going  forward.  Never  before  have 
we  had  the  friendly  reception  which  we  are  receiving  today  in  all 
the  nations  of  Europe.  Our  message  is  being  listened  to  by  people 
everywhere,  and  the  Lord  is  preparing  the  hearts  of  men  and  women 
for  the  gospel  message;  and  so  I  view  the  situation  throughout  with 
optimism  and  delight,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned. 

World  Attitude  Changing 

Just  before  leaving  London,  I  purchased  a  book.  Its  author  is 
Dr.  Ernest  William  Barnes,  the  famous  Bishop  of  Birmingham, 
England.  I  did  not  get  time  to  read  the  book  as  thoroughly  and 
carefully  as  I  should  have  done,  but  I  noticed  as  I  scanned  through 
its  pages  the  learned  man  called  attention  to  this  one  thing,  namely 
that  infant  baptism  was  unknown  in  the  days  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
his  Apostles.  In  another  place,  he  quoted  the  words  of  Paul,  the 
Apostle: 

Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead 
rise  not  at  all?  Why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the  dead?  (I  Cor.  15:29.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


He  then  concluded  that  there  can  be  no  question  but  that  the 
early  Christians  were  baptized  for  their  dead  relatives  and  friends. 
Why  is  the  attitude  of  the  world  changing  respecting  these  doctrines? 
Because,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  endeavors  of  the  humble  men  and 
women  who  have  gone  forth  as  missionaries  have  been  eminently  suc- 
cessful, and  people  in  all  the  walks  of  life  are  reading  our  literature. 
About  a  year  ago  I  rode  on  the  train  from  northern  England  to 
London.  When  we  came  to  the  city  of  Darlington,  the  door  to  our 
compartment  opened,  and  a  minister  of  the  Church  of  England 
entered.  He  looked  us  over  rather  carefully  and  finally  said,  "I  am 
curious  to  know  why  you  Americans  should  come  from  a  land  of 
plenty  to  a  land  of  scarcity." 

My  companion,  a  young  missionary,  who  was  always  eager  for 
a  gospel  conversation,  turned  to  him  and  replied,  "We  are  mission- 
aries of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  then 
with  characteristic  bluntness,  "commonly  called  Mormons." 


The  minister  was  not  shocked.  I  think  perhaps  he  had  surmised 
who  we  were.  The  young  missionary,  true  to  form  in  all  respects, 
reached  into  his  pocket  and  produced  a  little  card  on  which  were 
printed  the  Articles  of  Faith.  The  minister  read  the  articles  very 
carefully  and  handed  them  back  to  the  missionary  with  the  remark, 
"I  can  believe  most  of  these  fine  declarations  of  faith."  And  then 
good  naturedly,  "Of  course,  I  am  not  prepared  to  believe  that  Zion 
is  to  be  built  upon  the  American  continent."  But  he  went  on  to  talk 
about  these  thirteen  Articles  of  Faith  and  referred  to  them  as  "a 
great  religious  document." 

I  have  always  said,  and  I  now  repeat  it,  there  is  something  more 
than  man's  genius  back  of  these  thirteen  Articles  of  Faith.  How  could 
anyone  devise  a  better  introduction  to  a  gospel  conversation  for 
our  missionaries?  These  articles  are  not  antagonistic.  One  follows  the 
other  in  proper  sequence.  They  are  sound  and  scriptural  and  have 
a  strong  appeal  to  those  who  are  familiar  with  the  Holy  Bible.  They 
are  neither  dogmatic  nor  unfriendly.  The  Prophet  showed  great 
wisdom,  it  seems  to  me,  and  a  rare  insight  into  human  nature,  when 
he  used  the  words,  "we  believe,"  in  presenting  this  powerful  message 
to  the  world.  Is  it  any  wonder  that  they  have  been  translated  into  so 
many  languages?  They  are  not  only  well-stated,  but  they  are  also 
well-selected  from  all  the  beliefs  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They  have 
stood  the  test  of  one  hundred  years,  during  which  time  they  have 
been  analyzed  and  scrutinized  by  thousands  of  investigators.  Not  a 
single  alteration  has  been  necessary.  These  declarations  are  an  im- 
portant part  of  the  Prophet's  literary  and  scriptural  productions. 
They  are  neither  threadbare  nor  obsolete. 


Articles  of  Faith 


Reaction  to  Tracts 


When  our  minister  had  finally  finished  reading  them,  my  mis- 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


137 


sionary  companion  handed  him  another  of  our  tracts.  It  was  the 
one  entitled  "What  Is  Mormonism?"  written  years  ago  by  Elder 
John  A.  Widtsoe.  He  read  it  from  beginning  to  end.  It  was  much 
longer.  It  took  him  an  hour  to  read  it.  He  was  equally  complimentary 
when  he  returned  it  to  us.  "It  is  one  of  the  best  religious  papers  I 
have  read,"  he  said.  Then  my  companion  did  a  bold  thing.  He  reached 
into  his  brief  case  and  took  from  it  another  tract  called  Joseph  Smith 
Tells  His  Own  Story.  Our  friend  read  it,  but  the  expression  on  his 
face  changed.  His  attitude  was  different.  His  friendliness  disappeared. 
He  handed  it  back  without  comment  except  to  say,  "The  answer  to 
that  gospel  tract  is  either  'yes'  or  'no.'  "  And  I  believe  he  was  right. 
There  is  no  middle  ground  upon  which  you  can  consider  the  claims 
of  Joseph  Smith.  He  was  either  prophet  or  fraud,  for  he  did  his 
work  like  one  called  of  God. 


Explanation  of  Joseph  Smith 

I  also  picked  up  in  England  another  book,  written  by  Dr.  James 
Black  of  Edinburgh,  Scotland.  He  was  a  prominent  clergyman  in 
the  Church  of  England  in  Edinburgh.  He  wrote  numerous  articles 
against  the  Latter-day  Saints  over  a  period  of  fifteen  or  twenty  years. 
These  articles  were  bitter  and  were  directed  primarily  against  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  and  against  the  missionaries  who  were  then 
in  England.  One  chapter  in  his  book  is  devoted  to  the  Mormons  in 
Utah,  and  in  it  the  reverend  gentleman  made  a  confession  that  he 
has  failed  after  years  of  study  to  understand  Joseph  Smith.  Said  he 
in  his  statement: 

The  real  problem  in  Mormonism  is  how  an  ill-educated  man  like 
Joseph  Smith  could  have  invented  an  elaborate  system  of  rules  and  ideas 
with  many  historical  references,  ingenious  speculations  and  imaginative 
flights,  and  moreover,  how  he  could  have  expounded  them  in  a  style  of 
writing  apparently  foreign  to  his  ordinary  speech  and  range  of  culture. 

He  goes  on: 

On  the  other  hand,  the  charge  of  his  enemies  that  the  whole  system 
is  merely  an  invention  and  a  fraud  does  not  touch  the  problem,  for  this 
charge  does  not  explain  and  cannot  explain  how  such  an  ill-educated  man 
could  produce  such  an  elaborate  system.  This  is  a  bigger  problem  than 
most  people  imagine.  It  requires  an  exceedingly  able  scholar  to  foist  a 
highly  wrought-out  fraud  to  last  for  over  a  century  upon  the  public. 

Who  will  explain  Joseph  Smith?  Is  there  any  explanation  of 
this  great  prophet  of  the  latter  days?  Only  one,  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  that  is  the  one  which  he  himself  gave.  No  one  will  explain  this 
prophet  of  the  nineteenth  century  except  those  who  accept  him  as  a 
prophet  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  this  great  work  which  has  been  established 
upon  the  earth  in  the  last  days.  May  he  bless  his  servants  and  hand- 
maidens who  are  going  forth  in  the  world  to  present  this  gospel  of 
salvation,  and  may  we  live  so  that  our  lives  may  shine  like  a  beacon 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

light  to  lead  the  world  towards  the  truth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  of  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve.  President  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  will  now  address  us,  and  following  him  Elder  Ezra  Taft 
Benson,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  President  Evans  is  a  man 
whose  voice  is  heard  more  than  that  of  any  other  man  in  the  country. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  sure  that  no  one  knows  as  well  as  I  know  how  much  I 
need  help  as  I  face  this  congregation  here  and  those  who  may  be 
listening  and  looking  on  the  air,  and  I  earnestly  hope  that  I  may 
have  it. 

I  have  jotted  down  from  time  to  time  mentally  or  actually,  these 
past  three  days,  things  that  I  think  it  might  have  been  well  for  me 
to  have  said  at  this  conference,  and  I  have  repeatedly  scratched 
them  out  as  others  have  said  them.  They  make  a  rather  long  list. 

I  heard  some  weeks  ago  a  set  of  figures  presented  by  Brother 
A.  Z.  Richards,  which  I  felt  deserved  wider  circulation  as  a  point 
of  historical  perspective.  I  should  like  to  extract  a  few  of  these  fig- 
ures from  a  longer  list: 

Figures  Quoted 

When  Joseph  Smith  was  born,  the  population  of  the  United 
States  was  about  one-half  the  present  population  of  California. 

In  1820,  the  population  of  the  entire  United  States  was  about 
the  population  of  New  York  City  today. 

In  1830,  when  the  Church  was  organized,  New  York  City  was 
about  one-third  larger  than  Salt  Lake  City  is  today. 

In  1837,  when  our  missionaries  first  went  to  Great  Britain, 
New  York  City  was  smaller  than  Denver  is  today. 

In  1847,  there  were  only  two  United  States  cities  larger  than 
Salt  Lake  City  today;  they  were  New  York  and  Manhattan,  both 
of  which  are  now  part  of  the  present  greater  New  York. 

When  Martin  Harris  went  to  New  York  with  the  Book  of 
Mormon  characters,  New  York  City  was  only  slightly  larger  than 
Salt  Lake  City  is  today. 

Before  Nauvoo  was  abandoned  by  our  people,  Washington, 
D.  C,  was  about  the  same  size  as  Nauvoo,  but  Nauvoo  had  been 
only  three  or  four  years  in  the  making  while  Washington,  D.  C. 
had  been  designated  as  the  seat  of  national  government  more  than 
a  half-century  before  that  time. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS  139 


I  think  these  latter  figures,  and  others  which  might  be  pre- 
sented here,  bring  to  us  with  some  considerable  force  the  kind  of 
people  that  our  pioneer  forefathers  were — people  of  great  courage 
and  conviction.  I  think  we  can  see  from  these  figures,  too,  some- 
thing of  the  basis  of  the  concern  of  some  of  their  neighbors — with 
all  of  the  social,  religious,  political,  and  economic  implications  in- 
herent in  growth  of  this  people,  and  the  vigor  and  purpose  they 
displayed  in  rising  repeatedly  from  their  poverty. 

Two  more  figures  I  think  may  be  of  interest  to  you:  In  1850, 
the  population  of  Utah  has  been  recorded  in  official  records  as  being 
about  1 1,380.  Three  years  later  our  people  started  building  the  mag- 
nificent temple  which  now  stands  to  the  east  of  us. 

Men  of  Courage  and  Faith 

In  1860,  the  population  of  this  state  has  been  recorded  as  being 
about  40,273.  Three  years  later  than  that  they  began  to  build  the 
Tabernacle  in  which  we  meet  today,  which,  when  it  was  projected, 
probably  would  have  seated  about  one  out  of  every  five  people  in 
the  entire  state.  If  we  were  to  do  likewise  today,  proportionately, 
we  should  have  to  project  ourselves  to  the  building  of  an  auditorium 
that  would  seat  considerably  more  than  a  hundred  thousand  people. 

Men  of  courage,  men  of  faith  in  the  future  in  spite  of  all  the 
uncertainties  and  the  drivings  and  the  depredations  that  they  ex- 
perienced, they  began  again  and  again,  and  rose  from  their  poverty 
again  and  again,  to  produce  what  we  see  before  us  and  what  we 
are  the  beneficiaries  of.  These  walls  and  these  buildings  on  Temple 
Square  are  part  of  the  evidence  of  their  purpose  and  their  faith, 
and  I  hope  and  earnestly  believe  that  something  of  their  spirit  still 
lingers  here. 

Uncertainties  Today 

Now  times  have  changed,  but  human  nature  hasn't  changed 
very  much.  We  face  other  uncertainties  today,  and  sympathy  and 
appeals  for  faith  and  prayers  and  for  encouragement  to  our  young 
people  who  face  the  uncertainties  of  our  generation  have  been  ex- 
pressed repeatedly  in  this  conference.  I  should  like  to  add  my  ap- 
peal for  faith,  for  prayers,  and  for  understanding  for  these  young 
people  who  live  in  confusion  and  suspense,  and  who  wonder  when 
they  are  going  to  be  relieved  of  all  this  uncertainty,  when  they  can 
settle  down,  what  they  can  count  on  for  the  future,  whether  to  pur- 
sue their  education  and  their  preparations  for  professions  or  to  give 
it  all  up. 

What  can  they  count  on?  Well,  I  think  it  was  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball or  one  of  his  associates  who  said  that  he  had  started  all  over 
again  seven  different  times  and  left  his  home  and  all  behind  him.  I 
hope  this  generation  will  not  be  faced  with  any  such  extremities, 
but  I  do  know  that  we  must  have  faith  in  the  future,  and  when  we 
see  what  our  forefathers  did  with  what  they  had,  and  the  conditions 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

under  which  they  did  it,  I  feel  sure  that  we  can  surmise  something 
of  what  might  be  expected  of  us,  and  of  what  might  be  accomplished 
by  us,  in  faith,  in  that  unity  of  which  President  Clark  so  often 
speaks,  and  in  righteous  purpose.  There  is  much  expected  of  us  with 
what  we  have,  compared  with  what  our  pioneer  fathers  did  with 
what  was  theirs. 

Year  of  Anniversaries 

They  did  some  other  things  also:  It  has  been  mentioned  that 
this  is  a  year  of  anniversaries.  For  one  thing,  it  is  the  centennial  of 
the  University  of  Deseret,  now  the  University  of  Utah.  The  second 
act  of  the  territorial  legislature,  as  I  recall,  was  the  founding  of 
this  educational  institution.  This  month  we  also  observe  the  seventy- 
fifth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  Brigham  Young  University.  Did 
the  founders  of  these  institutions  have  their  eyes  on  the  future? 
They  believed  in  seeking  knowledge  out  of  the  best  books.  They 
believed  that  "the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  and  "that  whatever 
principle  of  intelligene  we  attain  to  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with  us 
in  the  resurrection."  (D.  &  C.  130:18.)  And  they  established  insti- 
tutions of  learning  wherever  they  went.  The  pursuit  of  learning 
was  an  important  part  of  their  lives. 

Acceptance  of  Truth 

I  am  aware  today,  not  only  of  those  who  are  facing  uncertain- 
ties in  the  armed  forces,  to  whom  our  hearts  and  prayers  go 
out,  but  of  those  who  are  pursuing  knowledge  in  institutions  of 
learning,  who  sometimes  run  into  areas  of  confusion  and  seeming 
conflict  in  their  pursuits.  I  am  grateful  to  belong  to  a  Church  that 
has  committed  itself  to  the  acceptance  of  all  truth,  that  encourages 
its  people  to  pursue  truth  and  to  push  farther  and  farther  the  fron- 
tiers of  human  knowledge.  And  I  am  grateful  also  (and  I  have  said 
this  before)  that  the  things  I  don't  understand  don't  destroy  my 
faith  in  the  things  that  I  do  understand. 

There  is  so  much  that  men  don't  know  that  we  can  afford  to 
wait  for  all  the  answers  where  there  seem  to  be  areas  of  conflict 
and  confusion  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge. 

Observations  at  Mt.  Palomar 

I  was  reading  recently  an  article  on  the  new  telescopes  lately 
put  into  service  on  Mount  Palomar,  California — the  Schmidt  tele- 
scope, a  smaller  one  of  rather  radical  design  with  forty-eight-inch 
lens  and  the  much  larger  one  with  a  200-inch  lens.  Since  early 
1949,  so  says  the  writer,  the  smaller  of  these  two  telescopes  has 
provided  new  clues  on  the  creation  of  the  universe,"  "has  already 
revealed  hundreds  of  thousands  of  island  universes  and  millions  of 
stars  .  .  .  which  had  never  been  seen  before,"  and  can  see  and 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


141 


photograph  "clear,  undistorted  distances  of  three  hundred  million 
light  years  away  or  about  two  thousand  billion-billion  miles!"  And 
the  larger  telescope  penetrates  about  a  billion  light  years  away! 
"What  is  man  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him!" 

And  shall  we  say  that  these  millions  of  stars  that  have  just 
been  "seen"  within  recent  months  did  not  exist  before  we  could  see 
them  with  the  aid  of  these  more  acute  instruments?  I  think  we  should 
ask  ourselves  some  of  the  questions  that  were  asked  of  Job  by  the 
Voice  out  of  the  whirlwind,  and  see  how  many  we  can  answer, 
when  we  run  into  some  of  these  areas  of  seeming  conflict.  If  we 
were  to  sit  down  and  list  those  things  which  have  been  discovered 
even  in  our  own  generation,  which  were  not  before  known,  and 
then  think  of  infinity  and  of  all  that  is  not  yet  known  by  man,  we 
should  be  humble  indeed  in  our  small  knowledge,  even  the  most 
learned  among  us. 

Cling  to  Eternal  Verities 

I  should  like  to  say  to  our  young  people:  Keep  your  lives  well- 
balanced.  Pursuing  any  narrow  field  of  knowledge  or  activity  to 
the  exclusion  of  all  others  will  reach  a  point  of  diminishing  returns. 
Give  some  of  your  time  to  the  things  of  the  spirit,  and  always  re- 
serve some  of  your  means  to  the  purposes  of  your  Father  in  heaven. 
Look  broadly  as  well  as  intently,  and  keep  your  lives  well-balanced 
in  your  pursuits. 

I  would  say  today  to  those  who  are  in  the  classroom,  to  farm- 
ers in  the  field,  to  the  laborers  in  factories,  to  men  pursuing  pro- 
fessions, to  young  men  in  military  service,  to  all  of  us  in  life,  what- 
ever the  discouragements,  whatever  the  seeming  areas  of  conflict 
and  confusion,  whatever  the  infinite  area  of  things  we  don't  under- 
stand, cling  to  these  eternal  verities  always:  that  God  lives,  that 
men  were  made  in  his  image,  that  life  is  purposeful,  that  men  are 
immortal.  Cling  to  the  commandments  and  give  observance  to  them 
and  to  the  knowledge  that  it  is  our  Father's  plan  and  purpose  to 
bring  immortality  and  eternal  life  to  man.  If  we  will  cling  to  these 
eternal  verities  in  simplicity  and  truth  and  keep  our  lives  well- 
balanced  in  all  our  pursuits,  we  shall  reach  a  glorious  end,  with 
ever-growing  knowledge.  By  all  means  seek  knowledge  out  of  the 
best  books,  in  all  fields  of  thought  and  learning  that  are  construc- 
tive, and,  if  possible,  it  would  be  wonderful  to  push  the  frontiers  of 
knowledge  beyond  where  they  are  now.  But  always  keep  lives  well- 
balanced  and  reserve  some  time  for  the  things  of  the  spirit. 

Pursue  Purposes  of  Life 

Now  as  to  this  discouragement  and  confusion:  I  think  the  ene- 
my of  men's  souls  wouldn't  care  too  much  what  means  he  used  to 
render  our  lives  ineffective,  just  so  long  as  he  did  render  them  in- 
effective. I  don't  think  he  would  care  too  much  whether  it  was  by 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

indolence  or  indifference  or  by  withholding  willing  work,  or  by 
doubt,  or  by  discouragement,  or  by  uncertainty — so  long  as  he  could 
render  us  ineffective,  it  would  please  him.  And  it  must  be  our  pur- 
pose to  see  that  we  pursue  our  purposes  regardless  of  the  things  we 
don't  know  which  we  hope  sometime  to  know.  It  must  be  our  pur- 
pose to  pursue  with  all  earnestness  every  righteous  purpose. 

No  matter  how  much  we  may  be  discouraged  or  how  often  we 
are  set  back,  we  must  begin  again  and  again,  if  necessary,  and 
earnestly  pursue  the  purposes  of  life,  full  of  faith  for  the  future. 
Enduring  to  the  end  is  exceedingly  important.  Pursuing  the  oppor- 
tunities and  the  duties  of  every  day  is  exceedingly  important,  and 
repenting  while  there  is  still  time  to  repent  is  also  exceedingly  im- 
portant. 

Prayer  For  Youth 

I  hope  that  we  may  set  our  lives  in  order,  and  that  our  Father 
will  bless  these  young  people  of  ours,  whether  they  be  called  to  the 
service  of  their  country  or  whatever  in  righteousness  they  may  be 
called  upon  to  do,  and  give  them  strength  and  faith,  and  let  them 
be  of  good  courage,  and  help  them  to  keep  their  lives  well-balanced 
and  always  to  keep  their  feet  firmly  on  solid  rock.  May  he  bless  all 
of  us  with  all  our  problems,  with  our  families,  with  our  professions, 
with  our  work,  and  with  all  that  is  ours  to  undertake  in  life. 

I  wish  to  express  to  you  the  conviction  in  my  soul  as  to  the 
reality  of  those  things  which  have  been  spoken  of  here  in  this  con- 
ference, that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the  gospel  has 
been  restored,  that  it  has  within  it  the  answers  to  the  problems  that 
beset  this  generation,  and  the  only  answers  to  permanent  peace.  May 
we  pursue  it  in  unity  and  with  righteous  purpose,  ever  keeping  the 
commandments  and  bringing  our  young  people  with  us,  full  of  faith, 
understanding,  and  courage.  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  come  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  we  approach  the 
close  of  this  glorious  conference,  in  a  spirit  of  fasting  and  prayer, 
in  the  hope  that  the  Lord  will  see  fit  to  sustain  me  during  the  few 
moments  I  stand  before  you.  As  I  have  been  contemplating  with 
anxiety  this  sobering  experience,  I  have  had  reason  to  thank  the 
Lord  many  times  for  his  blessings. 

Support  of  Family 

While  I  was  sitting  alone  in  a  room  at  my  home  following  the 
morning  session  today,  one  of  my  boys  came  into  the  room  and  said, 
"Dad,  I've  observed  you've  been  fasting  and  praying  a  good  deal 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


143 


during  this  conference.  I  just  wanted  to  come  in  to  tell  you  that  I 
have  been  doing  the  same.  The  Lord  bless  you." 

As  I  left  the  room,  I  was  met  by  my  good  wife,  ever  loyal  and 
devoted,  who  said,  "The  younger  children  have  suggested  that  it 
might  be  well  if  we  kneel  in  family  prayer."  Then  she  added,  "We 
had  prayer  this  morning,  but  they'd  like  to  join  with  you  in  prayer 
now."  I  am  grateful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  the  support  of  our 
families. 

Gratitude  For  Brethren 

I  am  grateful  for  the  spirit  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  am 
grateful  for  my  brethren  among  whom  I  labor — for  their  support, 
their  confidence,  and  their  faith.  My  heart  has  responded  to  every 
message  given  at  this  conference  and  every  testimony  that  has  been 
borne. 

My  soul  echoed  the  sentiments  expressed  in  behalf  of  our  great 
leader,  President  George  F.  Richards.  I  loved  him  almost  as  a  son 
loves  a  father.  I  recall  vividly  standing  in  his  presence — alone  with 
him  in  his  office — just  before  I  left  for  the  shores  of  war-torn  Europe. 
I  recall  his  last  words  of  counsel.  I  shall  never  forget  them  and  the 
sweet  embrace  which  he  gave  me  as  I  was  about  to  leave  on  that 
emergency  mission  under  the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency. 

I  was  happy  to  hear  the  words  spoken  regarding  my  good  friend 
and  brother,  Frank  Evans,  whom  I  have  loved  many  years  and 
who  was  not  only  loved  in  the  Church  but  also  was  loved  by  the 
people  throughout  rural  America. 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  appointment  of 
Brother  Stapley  to  our  Council,  and  I'd  like  to  say  to  him,  and  I'm 
sure  I  echo  the  feeling  of  all  of  my  associates,  that  he  will  see  and 
feel  and  witness  a  love  that  is  not  excelled  among  men  anywhere 
in  the  world  as  he  sits  in  the  Council  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  I  am  grateful  for  these  rich  blessings. 

I  am  thrilled,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the  sweet  summary 
of  the  conference  given  by  Brother  Lee  this  morning  and  particularly 
with  his  testimony.  I  thank  God  that  he  has  implanted  in  the  hearts 
of  men — strong  men,  good  men — a  burning  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

Spirit  of  Brotherhood 

There  is  a  real  spirit  of  brotherhood  and  fellowship  in  the 
Church.  Its  a  very  powerful  thing,  somewhat  intangible,  but  very 
real.  I  feel  it,  as  do  my  associates,  as  we  travel  throughout  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion  and  throughout  the  missions  of  the  earth.  It  mat- 
ters not  where  we  go.  We  may  meet  in  a  group  with  the  priesthood, 
in  one  of  the  stakes,  or  out  in  one  of  the  missions,  but  there  is  always 
that  feeling  of  fellowship  and  brotherhood.  It  is  one  of  the  sweet 
things  in  connection  with  membership  in  the  Church  and  kingdom 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

of  God.  I  have  felt  it  way  up  in  Alaska  as  I  met  with  our  brethren 
and  sisters  there.  I  felt  it  far  up  in  East  Prussia,  throughout  the  mis- 
sions of  Europe,  down  in  Mexico,  in  some  of  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
and  throughout  this  land  of  Zion.  It  is  very  real.  Oh,  I  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  isn't  what  it  should  be;  it  isn't  what  it  could 
be;  it  isn't  what  the  Lord  would  have  it  be,  but  nevertheless,  there 
is  nothing  like  it  in  all  the  world.  It  is  one  of  the  marks  of  the  divinity 
of  this  great  latter-day  work,  and  I  rejoice  in  it.  The  most  important 
thing  of  all,  to  me,  is  the  spirit  of  this  great  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  It  is  that  spirit  which  brings  to  our  souls  a  conviction  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  One  cannot  fully  explain  it,  and  yet  it  is 
very  powerful  and  very  real. 

Spiritual  Uplift  Experienced 

One  of  my  non-Mormon  friends  who  passed  away  only  a  few 
days  ago,  who  was  rather  prominently  known,  who  wrote  for  national 
magazines,  and  was  chairman  of  the  board  of  trustees  of  one  of  our 
great  universities,  some  months  ago  came  to  this  city  to  address  a 
meeting  of  dairymen,  most  of  whom  were  members  of  the  Church. 
After  the  meeting  was  over,  he  came  up  to  my  home  for  the  purpose 
of  a  visit  and  a  renewal  of  friendship.  As  I  drove  him  back  to  the 
hotel  that  night,  he  turned  to  me,  after  being  quiet  for  several  mo- 
ments, and  said,  "I  don't  know  what  it  is,  but  each  time  I  come  among 
your  people  I  experience  something  that  I  never  experience  any- 
where else  in  the  world.  It's  an  intangible  thing,  but  it's  very  real." 
He  added,  "I've  tried  to  analize  it;  I've  tried  to  describe  it;  but  the 
best  thing  I  can  do  is  to  say  that  every  time  I  come  among  your 
people,  I  get  a  spiritual  uplift.  What  is  it  that  gives  me  that  feeling 
which  I  get  nowhere  else?" 

Brethren  and  sisters,  what  is  it?  You  feel  it.  We  feel  it  in  these 
great  conferences  of  the  Church.  We  feel  it  out  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion.  We  feel  it  in  little  branch  meetings  or  in  meetings  with  mis- 
sionaries in  the  far  parts  of  the  earth.  It's  a  sweet  thing.  It's  a  price- 
less thing.  It  is  a  mark  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged. 

I  recall  while  living  in  the  East  some  years  ago,  I  invited  one  of 
my  good  friends,  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  to  attend  our  sacra- 
ment meeting.  He  promised  that  he  would  sometime.  Weeks  went  by; 
I  met  him  on  the  street  one  day  following  a  Rotary  luncheon,  and  he 
said,  "I  was  up  to  your  meeting  last  Sunday  night,  but  you  weren't 
there."  I  explained  that  I  was  visiting  another  ward,  and  then  he  said 
in  answer  to  my  inquiry  as  to  whether  he  enjoyed  the  meeting,  "Yes, 
I  enjoyed  it,  especially  the  spirit  of  it,  but,"  he  said,  "I  wish  you 
would  tell  me  one  thing.  Why  is  it  that  when  your  people  come  to 
the  end  of  a  meeting  and  the  benediction  is  said  that  they  don't  seem 
to  have  any  place  to  go?"  He  said,  "That  group  stood  up,  recognizing 
the  meeting  was  over,  but  they  just  stood  there  and  visited  and  visited 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


145 


until  I  thought  I  was  never  going  to  get  out  of  that  building.  Finally, 
when  I  got  into  the  foyer,  it  was  more  congested  than  ever."  Well, 
that  is  a  further  evidence  of  this  spirit — this  spirit  of  love,  this  spirit 
of  brotherhood  that  is  so  real,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  Church. 

Impelling  Force  of  Gospel 

We  witness  it  in  our  missionary  activities.  I  recall  vividly,  and 
it  was  called  to  my  mind  by  the  remarks  of  Brother  Sonne  this  after- 
noon, standing  on  the  shores  of  war-torn  Europe  following  the  war 
and  watching  the  mission  presidents — several  of  whom  are  here 
before  me  this  afternoon — come  back  to  the  shores  of  Europe.  I 
wondered  in  my  heart,  What  is  it  that  causes  them  to  leave  the  com- 
forts of  their  homes  and  come  over  to  these  war-torn  lands  where 
there  is  a  shortage  of  everything  necessary  for  civilized  living? 
What  is  it  that  causes  a  man  to  sell  his  grocery  business  and  come 
way  up  into  Norway  on  his  third  mission?  What  is  it  that  causes  a 
man  to  sell  his  business  down  in  California  and  go  up  to  Sweden? 
What  is  it  that  caused  a  man  to  turn  over  his  furniture  business  in 
Salt  Lake  City  and  come  over  to  the  shores  of  war-torn  Holland, 
where  there  was  shortage  of  food,  shortage  of  clothing,  shortage 
of  fuel  and  transportation,  and  where  there  were  practically  no  com- 
forts? What  is  it  that  causes  a  man  to  leave  his  chair  in  a  university 
surrounded  by  all  the  comforts  earned  by  a  long  life  of  service  and 
go  back  into  war-torn  France?  And  so  on.  I  tell  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  it  is  marvelous.  There  isn't  anything  like  it  anywhere. 

What  is  it  that  causes  our  young  missionaries  to  want  to  go  out 
and  serve  without  any  hope  of  material  reward?  I  interviewed  one  of 
them  down  in  a  California  stake  recently.  We  couldn't  accept  him 
because  he  wasn't  old  enough.  He  broke  down  and  cried.  He  said, 
"Brother  Benson,  ever  since  I  was  a  deacon  I've  wanted  to  go  on  a 
mission."  He  stated,  "The  last  few  months  my  fiancee  and  I  have 
been  planning  my  mission  and  what  would  follow,  and  what  support 
she  would  give  while  I  was  out  in  the  field."  And  he  told  how  his 
parents  had  prayed  that  the  time  might  come  that  he  would  be  con- 
sidered worthy  to  go  out  and  represent  the  Church  in  the  world. 
Nearly  six  thousand  of  them  are  out  in  the  world  as  we  meet  here 
today.  What  is  the  impelling  force  back  of  it? 

How  did  the  Prophet  Joseph  know  as  a  young  man  that  men 
and  women  would  respond  to  the  call  to  fill  missions,  to  go  out 
into  the  world  representing  an  unpopular  cause,  to  carry  this  glorious 
message?  How  did  he  know  that  the  Saints,  when  and  if  they  ac- 
cepted the  gospel,  would  respond  to  the  call  of  gathering  and  come  to 
Zion.  Yes,  the  spirit  of  this  work,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  a 
marvelous  and  a  priceless  thing. 

Critical  Period 

Now  during  this  critical  period,  and  it  is  a  critical  period  that 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 

we  are  passing  through,  I  hope  that  we  will  keep  ever  burning  in  our 
hearts  the  spirit  of  this  great  work  which  we  represent.  If  we  do  so, 
we'll  have  no  anxiety;  we'll  have  no  fear;  we'll  not  worry  about 
the  future  because  the  Lord  has  given  us  the  assurance  that  if  we 
live  righteously,  if  we  keep  his  commandments,  if  we  humble  our- 
selves before  him,  all  will  be  well.  I  turn  to  two  passages  of  scripture 
today  which  I'd  like  to  read: 

...  Be  strong  and  of  good  courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  thou  dis- 
mayed: for  the  Lord  thy  God  is  with  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest. 
(Joshua  1:9.) 

This  was  the  Lord's  admonition  to  his  son,  Joshua,  encouraging 
him  to  trust  in  God.  Joshua  answered  that  admonition  in  counsel  to 
his  people  in  these  words: 

.  .  .  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve;  .  .  .  but  as  for  me  and 
my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord.  (Ibid.,  24:15.) 

Essentials  for  Security 

Embodied  in  these  two  passages  of  scripture  are  the  two  prin- 
cipal essentials  for  security  and  peace:  first,  trust  in  God;  and  second, 
a  determination  to  keep  the  commandments,  to  serve  the  Lord,  to 
do  that  which  is  right.  Latter-day  Saints  who  live  according  to 
these  two  admonitions — trust  in  God  and  keep  the  commandments — 
have  nothing  to  fear. 

The  Lord  has  made  it  very  clear  in  the  revelations  that  even 
though  times  become  perilous,  even  though  we  be  surrounded  by 
temptation  and  sin,  even  though  there  be  a  feeling  of  insecurity, 
even  though  men's  hearts  may  fail  them  and  anxiety  fill  their  souls, 
if  we  only  trust  in  God  and  keep  his  commandments  we  need  have 
no  fear. 

In  modern  revelation  the  Lord  has  pointed  this  out  very  clearly. 
Even  before  the  Church  was  organized,  when  there  were  only  a  hand- 
ful of  people  following  the  leadership  of  the  boy  Prophet,  the  Lord 
said  to  his  Saints, 

Therefore,  fear  not,  little  flock;  do  good;  let  earth  and  hell  combine 
against  you,  for  if  ye  are  built  upon  my  rock,  they  cannot  prevail.  .  .  . 
Look  unto  me  in  every  thought;  doubt  not,  fear  not.  (D.  &  C.  6:34, 

36.) 

He  has  also  said, 

...  it  is  my  purpose  to  provide  for  my  saints,  for  all  things  are  mine. 
(Ibid.,  104:15.) 

Real  Dedication  Required 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not  going  to  be  enough  just  passive- 
ly to  accept  the  teachings,  standards,  and  ideals  of  the  Church.  It  will 
require  real  activity,  real  dedication  to  the  principles  of  righteousness 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


147 


if  we  are  to  face  the  future  unafraid.  But  if  we  have  the  courage, 
sound  judgment,  and  the  faith  so  to  do,  then  no  matter  what  happens 
we  will  be  able  to  face  any  situation  with  courage  and  with  faith  and 
with  the  assurance  that  God  will  sustain  us.  I  know  this  to  be  true, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  know  that  now  is  the  time  probably  more 
than  any  other  time  in  our  lives  to  live  the  gospel.  We  should  not  be 
lulled  away  into  a  false  security  as  Nephi  said  many  would  be  in  the 
last  days.  We  should  not  be  pacified  and  feel  in  our  hearts  that  we 
can  sin  a  little,  that  we  can  attend  to  our  meetings  part  of  the  time, 
that  we  can  pay  a  token  tithing,  that  we  can  live  the  gospel  when 
it  is  convenient,  and  all  will  be  well.  We  must  not  be  "at  ease  in 
Zion"  and  say,  "Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well."  But  we  must  live  the 
gospel  plan  every  day  of  our  lives  in  its  fulness.  Therein  is  safety. 
Therein  will  come  a  satisfaction  which  comes  from  righteous  living 
which  will  enter  our  hearts,  give  us  the  courage  and  the  strength 
that  we  need.  There  is  no  security  in  unrighteousness.  The  sinful 
always  live  in  despair. 

Need  for  Righteousness 

We  have  a  great  mission.  We  must  be  prepared,  both  young  and 
old.  We  must  stand  as  a  leaven  among  the  nations,  true  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness. 

We  need  to  be  humble.  We  need  to  be  grateful.  We  need  as 
families  to  kneel  in  family  prayer,  night  and  morning.  Just  a  few 
words  added  to  the  blessing  on  the  food,  which  is  becoming  the 
custom  in  some  parts,  is  not  enough.  We  need  to  get  onto  our  knees 
in  prayer  and  gratitude,  as  Alma  admonished.  (See  Alma  34.)  We 
need  the  spirit  of  reverence  in  our  houses  of  worship  referred  to  by 
President  McKay  in  his  beautiful  address  last  night  at  Priesthood 
meeting.  We  need  to  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy.  We  need  to  close 
our  businesses  on  Sunday,  and  as  Latter-day  Saints,  refrain  from 
making  purchases  on  the  Sabbath  except  in  cases  of  emergency. 
We  need  to  refrain  from  going  to  moving  pictures  on  the  Sabbath, 
and  if  we  are  operating  show  houses,  we  should  close  them  on  Sun- 
day. We  should  not  seek  pleasure  in  any  form  on  the  Sabbath  day. 
We  should  stand  firm  in  opposition  to  Sunday  baseball  and  other 
amusements  regardless  of  what  much  of  the  Christian  world  may  do. 
We  should  oppose  gambling  in  all  of  its  forms  including  the  pari- 
mutuel  betting  at  horse  races  referred  to  so  effectively  by  Brother 
Moyle.  We  should  refrain  from  the  habit  of  card  playing  against 
which  we  have  been  counseled  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  We 
should  stand  united  in  opposition  to  the  wider  distribution  and  use 
of  alcohol  and  other  things  declared  by  the  Lord  to  be  harmful. 

Commandments  to  Observe 

If  we  keep  the  commandments,  we  will  refrain  from  joining 
secret  orders  and  lodges.  Our  first  allegiance  will  be  to  the  Church 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


and  the  priesthood  quorums.  We  will  attend  our  meetings.  We  will 
take  our  families  with  us  to  the  sacrament  meeting  and  sit  with  them 
and  worship  with  them.  If  we  keep  the  commandments,  we  will  pay 
our  tithes  and  offerings,  our  fast  offerings,  and  our  welfare  contri- 
butions. We  will  respond  to  the  calls  in  the  Church,  and  we  will 
not  resign  from  office  when  called  under  the  authority  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood.  We  will  follow  the  counsel  of  the  leadership  of  the 
Church  and  call  our  families  together  periodically  in  home  evenings 
in  order  that  the  home  might  be  safeguarded  and  the  solidarity  of  the 
family  increased.  We  will  read  the  scriptures  in  our  homes  as  the  Lord 
has  admonished  us.  We  will  not  violate  the  sacred  covenants  we  have 
taken  upon  ourselves  in  the  waters  of  baptism  and  in  the  temples 
of  the  Lord,  nor  will  we  desecrate  or  cast  to  one  side  the  garments 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  We  will  attend  to  our  temple  work.  We  will 
become  saviors  on  Mount  Zion  in  very  deed. 


If  we  keep  the  commandments  we'll  be  good  citizens.  We'll  exer- 
cise our  right  to  vote.  We'll  follow  the  counsel  which  the  Lord  has 
given  in  the  revelations  regarding  our  obligation  to  seek  out  "honest 
men  and  wise  men"  (D.  &  C.  98:8-10)  who  will  stand  for  principle, 
men  who  will  put  principle  ahead  of  political  expediency.  We  will 
seek  men  of  faith  who  believe  the  Constitution  was  inspired  and  that 
this  nation  has  a  spiritual  foundation.  If  we  are  living  the  gospel, 
we  will  feel  in  our  hearts  that  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  not 
only  have  the  right,  but  are  also  duty  bound  under  heaven  to  give 
counsel  on  any  subject  which  affects  the  temporal  or  spiritual  wel- 
fare of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  regardless  of  whether  or  not  some  men 
may  think  such  counsel  may  have  political  implications. 

We  must  stand  firm  for  that  which  we  know  to  be  right,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  uphold  these  men  who  have  been  sustained 
as  our  leaders  in  modern  Israel.  All  this  we  will  do,  and  more,  if 
we  live  the  gospel.  We  will  keep  ourselves  clean  and  unspotted  from 
the  world.  We  will  live  lives  of  purity.  We  will  be  true  to  our 
wives  and  families.  We  will  live  according  to  the  gospel  plan. 


May  God  bless  us,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  may  trust  in 
God  and  keep  his  commandments.  That  is  all  the  Lord  expects  of  us. 
Joy  and  happiness  will  enter  our  hearts  as  we  do  so.  It  is  the  wicked 
who  flee  when  no  man  pursueth.  The  righteous  are  bold  as  a  lion. 
People  who  live  righteously  have  nothing  to  fear.  In  spite  of  the 
turmoil,  anxiety,  and  insecurity  which  may  seem  to  be  everywhere, 
we  will  be  able  to  stand  erect  and  go  forward  with  courage  and 
faith.  We  must  not  compromise  with  evil.  "They  enslave  their  child- 
ren's children  who  make  compromise  with  sin." 

God  bless  us  to  live  the  gospel,  to  be  grateful  for  all  that  we 


Good  Citizenship 


Blessing 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  149 


have  and  are,  and  for  all  that  we  enjoy,  in  this  the  kingdom  of  God, 
I  humbly  pray,  and  I  bear  fervent  testimony  to  you  to  the  truth  of 
the  words  that  have  been  spoken  at  this  conference,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Brother  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has 
just  addressed  us  and  we  will  now  join  the  Tabernacle  Choir  in 
singing  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top,"  conducted  by  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie. 

After  the  singing  we  will  hear  from  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards, 
Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  and  one  of  the  members  of  the 
family  of  the  man  about  whom  so  many  have  spoken  so  affection- 
ately here  today,  President  George  F.  Richards. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  from  the  depths  of  my  soul  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  privilege  of  being  here  to  worship  with  you  in  the  ses- 
sions of  this  conference.  I  think  of  the  words  of  the  Master  when  he 
was  tempted  to  turn  the  stone  into  bread  to  prove  that  he  was  the 
Son  of  God.  He  replied,  "It  is  written,  Man  shall  not  live  by  bread 
alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God." 
(Matt.  4:4.)  And  I  am  sure  we  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life 
eternal  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference. 

Appreciation  of  Father 

President  Smith  has  already  indicated  that  I  am  a  son  of 
George  F.  Richards.  I  would  like  to  take  this  occasion,  representing 
his  family,  to  express  appreciation  to  those  who  have  paid  tribute  to 
Father  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  and  the  many,  many 
friends  who  have  written  their  tributes  since  Father's  passing  away. 
Many  have  said  that  they  thought  he  was  one  of  the  finest  men  that 
ever  lived.  As  his  son,  I  would  like  to  tell  you  that  I  don't  know 
of  any  man  that  I  think  lived  nearer  the  Lord  than  my  father.  When 
he  spoke  in  prayer,  he  just  talked  to  the  Lord.  And  when  he  made 
a  promise  to  me,  it  was  just  the  same  as  if  the  Lord  had  made  it. 
He  has  left  us  a  great  heritage  and  a  great  responsibility,  and  I  hope 
his  posterity  will  not  fail  him. 

I  should  like  also  to  mention  Brother  Roscoe  Eardley.  Brother 
Roscoe  and  I  had  much  in  common.  We  each  filled  two  missions  in 
Holland;  we  each  presided  over  that  mission.  Roscoe  was  a  great 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  J  Third  Day 

missionary,  and  the  Dutch  people  loved  him.  He  loved  the  Church, 
and  he  was  loyal  to  it  in  every  way.  I  also  worked  side  by  side  with 
Brother  Frank  Evans  in  the  Church  offices,  and  I  think  he  was  one  of 
the  grandest  men  it  has  ever  been  my  privilege  to  know.  And  I  thank 
God  for  the  presence  of  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay  in  this  meeting. 
We  have  been  praying  for  you,  Brother  McKay,  for  months,  and  we 
thank  the  Lord  that  you  are  here  to  worship  with  us  on  this  occasion. 

Faith  Commended 

While  riding  to  my  conference  a  week  ago  last  Saturday,  one  of 
my  companions  said,  "Bishop,  what  do  the  Saints  need  to  be  told 
more  than  anything  else?"  I  answered,  "The  one  thing  they  ought  to 
be  told  is  how  wonderful  they  are  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes 
and  their  offerings,  in  helping  to  build  meetinghouses,  in  sending 
their  boys  into  the  mission  field,  in  helping  with  the  great  welfare 
program  of  the  Church,  in  the  buying  of  projects  and  helping  with 
the  budget,  in  maintaining  their  wards,  and  in  the  other  things  they 
have  been  asked  to  help  with,  such  as  the  Primary  Children's  hospital, 
the  Relief  Society  building,  and  the  BYU  fieldhouse."  I  tell  you,  my 
heart  goes  out  in  admiration,  in  thanksgiving  to  God  for  the  faith  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  love  them.  For  over  twelve  years  now 
I  have  had  to  do  with  the  financial  affairs  of  this  Church,  and  we 
haven't  passed  one  year  that  the  Saints  haven't  paid  a  greater  tithing 
than  the  year  before.  We  are  already  away  ahead  this  year  over  last 
year.  I  don't  think  they  are  making  undue  sacrifices,  because  of  the 
faith  I  have  that  every  effort  they  put  forth  in  the  building  up  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  shall  be  in  the  words  of  the  prophet,  as  bread  cast 
upon  the  water  which  after  many  days  shall  return. 

When  I  was  a  boy,  my  father  said,  "My  son,  there  is  no  organi- 
zation or  corporation  or  institution  in  this  world  that  will  pay  you  as 
great  dividends  on  the  investment  of  your  time  and  your  talents  and 
your  means  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 
After  nearly  fifty  years  since  my  father  made  me  that  promise,  I  stand 
before  you  to  say  that  I  have  seen  it  verified  in  the  lives  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  the  lives  of  my  own  family,  and  of  my  own 
loved  ones.  And  so  I  say,  God  bless  the  Saints  for  their  faith  and 
for  their  integrity. 

Sacrifices  of  Saints 

Brother  Benson  has  just  talked  of  the  marvelous  sacrifices  being 
made  to  carry  on  the  great  missionary  work  of  the  Church;  then 
there  is  the  building  of  meetinghouses.  We  have  about  four  hundred 
of  them  in  the  course  of  construction  at  the  present  time,  and  the  way 
the  Saints  sacrifice  in  order  to  raise  their  portion  of  the  money,  to 
me,  is  a  marvelous  thing.  My  daughter  called  me  a  few  nights  ago 
after  I  had  retired.  She  said,  "Daddy,  I  was  afraid  you  were  in  bed, 
but  we  just  came  from  our  ward,  and  we  raised  tonight  fifteen  thou- 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  151 


sand  dollars  to  make  the  final  payment  on  our  meetinghouse."  And 
she  added,  "To  cap  the  climax,  the  bishop  gave  another  thousand." 
I  say  God  bless  the  Saints  and  leaders  like  that. 

This  same  daughter  was  sent  out  to  collect  money.  She  went  into 
the  home  of  one  student.  He'd  given  his  part,  but  they  had  to  have 
more.  The  building  cost  more  than  they  had  anticipated,  He  said, 
"Well,  now,  I  don't  know  where  I  can  get  it  tonight,  but  give  me  a 
few  days;  come  back  again."  He  gathered  up  his  books  that  he  had 
finished  using  at  school  and  took  them  to  the  university  and  sold  them 
to  get  money  to  pay  another  contribution  on  the  meetinghouse. 

Sister  Richards  and  I  were  in  Idaho  a  few  weeks  ago  to  dedicate 
a  meetinghouse.  When  we  heard  the  stories  of  those  Saints,  how  they 
had  sacrificed,  we  were  thrilled.  One  good  sister  told  how  she  had 
taken  her  cow  and  had  it  killed  and  cut  up,  and  had  stood  on  the 
street  corner  of  the  little  town  selling  beef  sandwiches  in  order  to 
raise  her  portion  for  that  meetinghouse.  There  isn't  time  to  tell  you 
more  of  these  stories.  But  I  do  want  to  say  that  just  as  long  as  the 
Lord  will  keep  putting  that  kind  of  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  you  just  can't  stop  the  kingdom  from  growing.  No  power 
under  heaven  can  do  it.  And  I  thank  God  for  your  faith. 

Spirit  of  Darkness 

Now,  as  I  love  the  Saints  for  their  faithfulness,  I  also  feel 
remorse  and  sorrow  for  those  who  fail  to  have  that  kind  of  faith,  for 
those  who  are  not  willing  to  do  their  part,  for  those  who  have  dis- 
continued attending  their  meetings.  Brigham  Young  said  that  when 
we  fail  to  attend  our  sacrament  meetings  and  observe  our  prayers, 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  withdraw  himself,  and  a  spirit  of  darkness 
will  come  over  us.  Now  there  are  a  great  many  people  in  our  midst 
who  have  ceased  attending  their  meetings,  and  who  do  not  observe 
their  prayers.  Some  of  them  are  near  to  us,  some  of  them  are  dear  to 
us,  but  the  Lord  does  withdraw  his  Spirit.  Just  within  the  last  week 
I  had  a  woman  in  my  office  who  told  me  how  her  husband  had  quit 
doing  his  duty  and  how  the  Lord  had  withdrawn  his  Spirit.  She  said, 
"Sometimes  I  think  he  is  almost  possessed  of  the  devil."  Well,  the 
Lord  knew  that  we  could  not  be  disobedient  to  his  commandments  and 
still  enjoy  his  Spirit.  I  want  to  read  the  twelfth  verse  of  the  ninety- 
fifth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

If  you  keep  not  my  commandments,  the  love  of  the  Father  shall  not 
continue  with  you,  therefore,  you  shall  walk  in  darkness. 

And  when  people  walk  in  darkness,  they  cannot  love  the  breth- 
ren; they  cannot  love  the  Lord;  they  cannot  love  the  people;  they  can- 
not love  this  great  Latter-day  cause,  the  greatest  movement  the  world 
has  ever  known,  aside  from  the  great  atonement  of  the  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  At  least  that  is  my  appraisal  of  it.  I  think  that 
is  what  the  Lord  had  in  mind  when  he  said  in  a  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Day 


But  behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  are  many  who  have 
been  ordained  among  you,  whom  I  have  called  but  few  of  them  are 
chosen. 

They  who  are  not  chosen  have  sinned  a  very  grevious  sin,  in  that 
they  are  walking  in  darkness  at  noon-day.  (D.  &  C.  95:5-6.) 

The  noonday  is  the  brightest  period  of  the  day,  and  with  all 
this  glorious  truth  about  us,  some  walk  in  darkness. 

Lord's  Spirit  Withdrawn 

When  the  Lord  has  withdrawn  his  Spirit,  and  one  walks  in  dark- 
ness, he  says:  "Well,  I'm  not  religious." 

We  represent  the  adult  group  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  many 
of  whom  are  indifferent.  One  good  brother  wrote  in  and  inquired: 
"How  can  a  man  effect  a  complete  annihilation  of  his  soul  and  his 
body?"  Why,  because  he  has  not  observed  the  commandments  of 
God.  He  was  not  attending  his  meetings.  He  was  not  praying;  so  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  withdrew  and  left  him  walking  in  darkness;  and 
when  a  man  walks  in  darkness,  he  has  little  hope  to  look  forward  to. 

When  a  man  says  he  is  not  religious,  does  he  mean  that  he  be- 
lieves that  when  he  dies  that  will  end  it  all?  In  the  words  of  the 
Savior,  speaking  of  the  days  of  Noah,  he  said:  "They  shall  say, 
come,  let  us  eat,  drink,  and  make  merry,  for  tomorrow  we  die." 
Does  it  mean  that  he  believes  that  will  end  it  all?  Paul  said  that 
"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most 
miserable."  (I  Cor.  15:19.)  And  the  Savior  said, 

For  what  shall  it  profit  a  man,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul?  Or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul? 
(Mark  8:36-37.) 

Oh,  I  tell  you,  brothers  and  sisters,  the  glorious  gospel  that  we 
have  is  worth  more  than  all  the  wealth  in  the  world. 

Meaning  of  Religion 

When  a  man  says  he  is  not  religious,  does  he  mean  that  he 
would  not  be  interested  if  religion  could  tell  him  where  he  came  from, 
why  he  is  here,  and  where  he  is  going?  Does  he  mean  that  he  is  not 
interested  in  these  things,  when  he  says  he  is  not  religious?  Suppose 
you  had  never  seen  your  own  father,  and  yet  you  had  had  communi- 
cations from  him  from  Europe  or  elsewhere,  and  he  had  been  kind 
to  you,  but  conditions  hadn't  been  such  that  you  could  visit  him. 
Wouldn't  you  want  to  see  your  own  father?  Wouldn't  you  some 
day  want  to  be  acquainted  with  him  and  enjoy  his  association? 

Paul  tells  us  that 

...  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and  we  gave 
them  reverence:  shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the 
Father  of  spirits,  and  live?  (Heb.  12:9.) 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  153 


When  religion  can  teach  us  that  we  are  the  very  offspring  of 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  how  could  any  of  us  not  look  forward  long- 
ingly to  the  day  when  he  will  take  us  by  the  hand  and  say.  "...  Well 
done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant:  thou  hast  been  faithful  over 
a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things:  enter  thou  into 
the  joy  of  thy  lord."  (Matt.  25:21.) 

Added  Upon 

If  what  we  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  is  true,  that  those 
who  were  faithful  in  keeping  their  first  estate  should  be  added  upon, 
(and  there  isn't  time  to  discuss  how  marvelously  those  who  have 
kept  their  first  estate  have  been  added  upon)  but  that  more  blessed 
is  he  who  keeps  his  second  estate,  for  he  shall  be  added  upon  forever 
and  forever,  does  a  man  mean  when  he  says,  "I  am  not  religious,"  that 
he  would  not  like  to  be  added  upon  forever  and  forever?  There  is 
an  eternal  life,  and  we  have  that  right  awaiting  us  if  we  will  just 
live  for  it. 

Does  a  man  mean,  when  he  says  he  is  not  religious,  that  he 
does  not  care  whether  his  wife  and  his  children  belong  to  him 
throughout  the  countless  ages  of  eternity,  that  they  mean  nothing 
to  him? 

I  was  in  the  Arizona  Temple  not  so  long  ago.  We  spent  a  day 
there,  and  the  Primary  teachers  of  one  of  the  wards  brought  their 
children  to  do  baptismal  work  for  the  dead.  While  the  children 
were  doing  this  work,  we  held  a  testimony  meeting  with  the  teachers, 
and  in  that  meeting  sister  after  sister  stood  up  (their  husbands  were 
not  active  in  the  Church),  and  with  tears  in  their  eyes,  they  bore 
their  testimonies  and  said  that  the  greatest  desire  of  their  hearts  was 
for  the  day  to  come  when  their  husbands  could  take  them  into  the 
temple  of  God  and  be  sealed  to  them  for  time  and  all  eternity,  that 
they  might  have  claim  on  them  and  their  children. 

Do  we  mean  when  we  say  we  are  not  religious  that  we  do  not 
care  anything  about  such  matters? 

The  Rich  Man  and  Lazarus 

How  are  we  going  to  find  out  these  things?  You  remember  the 
story  of  the  rich  man  and  Lazarus,  how  Lazarus  died  and  was  re- 
ceived into  Abraham's  bosom  and  the  rich  man  into  torment.  He  called 
to  father  Abraham  and  said:  "Have  mercy  on  me,  and  send  Lazarus, 
that  he  may  dip  the  tip  of  his  finger  in  water,  and  cool  my  tongue; 
for  I  am  tormented  in  this  flame."  Father  Abraham  explained  that 
there  was  a  gulf  between  them.  Then  the  rich  man's  thoughts  turned 
to  his  five  brothers  who  were  still  upon  the  earth,  and  he  said,  "I  pray 
thee  therefore,  Father,  that  thou  wouldest  send  him  to  my  father's 
house: 

"For  I  have  five  brethren;  that  he  may  testify  unto  them,  lest 
they  also  come  into  this  place  of  torment." 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

Abraham  saith  unto  him,  "They  have  Moses  and  the  prophets; 
let  them  hear  them." 

And  the  rich  man  said:  "Nay,  Father  Abraham:  but  if  one 
went  unto  them  from  the  dead,  they  will  repent." 

Father  Abraham  said:  "If  they  hear  not  Moses  and  the  proph- 
ets, neither  will  they  be  persuaded,  though  one  rose  from  the  dead." 
(See  Luke  16:22-31.) 

I  pray  that  God  will  put  it  into  the  hearts  of  our  loved  ones  and 
those  of  the  Saints  of  Zion  who  are  not  as  faithful  as  they  should 
be,  who  do  not  think  they  are  religious,  that  they  will  realize  that 
we  do  not  only  have  Moses  and  the  prophets,  but  also  the  living 
prophets  of  God  who  are  sent  to  show  us  the  way;  that  they  will 
listen  unto  them.  When  I  think  of  all  the  Lord  has  revealed  in  the 
establishment  of  his  Church  and  kingdom  on  the  earth  in  these 
later  days,  to  me  it  is  all  Isaiah  described  it  to  be  when  he  said  the 
Lord  would  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  and  the 
wisdom  of  their  wise  men  should  perish,  and  the  understanding  of 
their  prudent  men  should  be  hid.  God  help  us  to  touch  the  hearts 
of  those  who  cannot  see  and  who  are  walking  in  darkness,  and  God 
bless  you  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  for  your  integrity  and  your 
devotion  to  his  great  cause,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

You  have  just  listened  to  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  LeGrand  Richards,  and  while  he 
has  been  talking,  I  have  been  thinking  of  this  great  audience.  Refer- 
ence has  been  made  repeatedly  to  missionary  work.  We  have  been 
told  that  we  have  nearly  six  thousand  missionaries  out  in  the  world 
today.  Of  course  they  are  coming  and  going  all  the  time.  For  a  small 
church,  such  as  we  are,  having  membership  a  little  more  than  a 
million,  approximately  six  thousand  missionaries  is  a  marvelous 
record.  As  I  sit  here  looking  at  the  faces  of  the  men  and  women  that 
I  know  here,  and  I  can  see  people  here  from  all  over,  it  came  into 
my  mind  to  ask  the  question:  How  many  of  you  have  filled  a  two-year 
or  longer  mission  during  your  lifetime?  Raise  your  hands.  Thank  you 
very  much.  This  is  a  missionary  Church.  Sometimes  people  might 
think,  from  the  way  we  refer  to  finance,  that  we  are  a  bank,  but  we 
are  not.  Think  of  the  buildings  that  are  on  this  block,  every  one 
of  them  built  many  years  ago.  This  tabernacle  and  the  temple  were 
built  in  the  very  poverty  of  our  people  when  they  were  trying  to 
make  homes  here  in  the  valleys  of  these  mountains.  But  the  Lord 
said,  "Seek  ye  first," — not  last — ■".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  his  righteousness,  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added 
unto  you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 


I 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  155 

Comforts  and  Blessings 

When  I  travel,  as  I  have,  approximately  a  million  miles  in  the 
world,  in  many  nations  and  places  in  the  world,  and  come  back  here, 
I  do  not  know  of  any  place  where  people  have  more  comforts  and 
blessings  than  we  do  right  here  in  this  place  that  103  years  ago  was 
a  desert  land,  with  only  one  tree  growing  in  this  valley.  My  grand- 
father came  with  the  first  company  of  pioneers.  There  were  143  men, 
three  women,  and  two  children.  After  he  had  been  here  for  five  or 
six  years,  one  of  his  non-Mormon  friends  asked  him,  "President 
Smith,  why  did  you  leave  Nauvoo  and  all  that  fine  country  back  there 
in  New  York  and  Missouri  and  come  out  to  this  God-forsaken  land?" 

The  reply  of  my  grandfather  was,  "Why,  we  came  here 
willingly,  because  we  had  to." 

In  other  words,  the  people,  about  twenty  thousand  of  them,  when 
they  were  expelled  from  Illinois,  had  their  choice.  They  could  have 
stayed  there  and  lived  with  so-called  Christians  (I  want  to  em- 
phasize that),  or  they  could  leave  and  come  out  here  and  live  with 
the  Indians.  That  was  their  choice.  They  preferred  the  Indians. 
Now  that  was  not  because  our  people  did  not  believe  in  Christianity. 
I  know  of  no  people  in  the  world  who  believe  as  firmly  in  the  divine 
mission  of  Jesus  Christ  as  do  the  membership  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  remember  I  have  had  many 
people  say  to  me,  "Why,  you  people  do  not  even  believe  in  Jesus 
Christ." 

I  have  said,  "What  is  the  matter  with  you?  If  we  do  not  believe 
in  Jesus  Christ,  why  do  we  call  the  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ?" 

"Oh,  I  didn't  know  you  called  it  that,  I  thought  it  was  called  the 
Mormon  Church,"  they  have  replied. 

Divine  Mission  of  Jesus  Christ 

I  remember  I  attended  a  conference  in  Canada  once,  and  it  so 
happened  that  I  referred  in  my  remarks  during  the  evening  to  our 
faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  believed  that 
the  Lord  prepared  the  way  for  the  coming  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth; 
prepared  Mary  to  be  his  mother  and  Joseph  to  act  as  his  earthly 
father.  And  then  Herod,  in  an  attempt  to  destroy  him,  sent  out  a 
decree  that  the  children  in  Bethlehem  and  the  country  raund  about 
who  were  two  years  old  and  under  were  to  be  slain,  and  he  became 
one  of  the  greatest  butchers  of  all  time.  Joseph  and  Mary  took  Jesus 
and  departed  from  the  land  of  their  birth  and  their  home  and  went 
down  into  Egypt.  They  returned  later  when  that  wicked  king  had 
died,  and  the  boy  grew  up  in  Nazareth  and  other  places  in  that 
section.  When  he  was  twelve  years  old,  he  went  with  his  parents 
to  the  temple.  They  were  there  to  perform  services  in  the  temple 
as  was  customary  with  those  good  Hebrew  people  in  those  days. 
When  Joseph  and  Mary  started  home,  they  missed  the  boy.  They 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


returned  to  Jerusalem  and  found  him  reasoning  with  the  wise  men 
in  the  temple.  When  he  was  reproached  by  his  parents  for  causing 
them  such  anxiety,  his  answer  was,  "...  wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be 
about  my  Father's  business?"  (Luke  2:49.)  Remember  he  was  only 
twelve  years  old. 

When  Jesus  became  a  man,  he  went  to  the  River  Jordan  where 
John  was  baptizing  "because  there  was  much  water  there,"  and  he 
needed  more  than  a  teacup  or  a  basin  full — Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who 
was  to  become  the  Savior  of  the  world,  went  to  John  and  applied 
for  baptism,  and  John  recognizing  him  as  an  unusual  character, 
said,  "...  I  have  need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and  comest  thou  to 


"And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  him,  Suffer  it  to  be  so  now: 
for  thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness.  Then  he  suffered 
him."  (Matt.  3:14-15.)  And  Jesus  of  Nazareth  went  down  into  the 
water  and  was  baptized  by  John,  and  when  he  came  up  out  of  the 
water,  the  Holy  Ghost  came  and  descended  upon  him  in  the  form 
of  a  dove. 

And  a  voice  from  heaven  said,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased."  (Ibid.,  3:17.)  Could  there  be  anything 
more  definite  than  that?  Our  wonderful  Bible  contains  all  that  infor- 
mation and  much  more,  of  course.  When  people  say  or  think  that  we 
do  not  believe  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  let  them  know  that 
we  believe  all  that  the  Bible  teaches  in  reference  to  him.  We  believe 
the  story  of  how  he  organized  his  people  and  taught  them,  and  how 
eventually,  at  the  insistence  of  his  own  people,  he  was  crucified 
by  the  representatives  of  the  Roman  government;  not  for  any  wrong 
he  had  done,  but  because  he  was  too  good  to  live  among  that  people. 


We  believe  all  that.  But  that  was  not  the  end.  The  Bible  tells 
us  that  he  had  been  taken  down  from  the  cross  where  he  had  been 
crucified  and  placed  in  the  tomb  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea.  After  three 
days,  when  the  women  went  to  the  tomb  with  spices  and  other  things 
to  prepare  his  body  for  burial  as  was  customary,  they  found  that 
the  tomb  was  empty.  They  began  looking  around.  Mary  was  standing 
near  the  sepulchre  weeping  when  she  saw  someone  who  she 
thought  was  the  gardener.  She  asked  where  Jesus  was,  and  He 
said,  "Mary,"  and  she  recognized  his  voice.  I  suppose  Mary 
would  have  embraced  him,  but  he  said,  "Touch  me  not;  for  I 
am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father"  (John  20:17) — that  was 
three  days  after  his  crucifixion — but  to  go  and  tell  his  brethren,  and 
gave  her  other  instructions. 

Not  very  long  after  that,  his  disciples  were  gathered  together 
in  a  room;  because  of  their  fear  of  their  enemies,  the  door  was 
closed.  All  at  once  he  materalized  in  that  room —  he  did  not  have  to 
wait  for  a  door  or  a  window  to  open.  Thomas,  who  had  not  been 


me? 


> » 


The  Resurrection 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  157 


present  at  the  time  of  the  previous  appearance  of  Jesus,  had  been 
told  by  the  disciples.  Realizing  that  there  was  some  doubt  in  the 
mind  of  Thomas,  Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and  behold 
my  hands;  and  reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side." 
{Ibid..  20:27.) 

And  when  Thomas  had  done  it,  he  cried  out,  "My  Lord  and 
my  God."  (Ibid.,  20:28.)  He  identified  the  body  as  the  one  he 
had  seen  on  the  cross.  And  then  the  Savior  said.  "Thomas,  because 
thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have 
not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed."  (Ibid.,  20:29.)  But  that  was  not 
the  end.  He  said  to  his  disciples,  "And  other  sheep  I  have,  which  are 
not  of  this  fold:  them  also  I  must  bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my 
voice;  and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one  shepherd."  (Ibid.,  10:16.) 

Visit  to  Other  Sheep 

What  did  he  mean?  We  do  not  know  from  the  Bible,  but  there  is 
another  glorious  record,  the  history  of  the  ancestors  of  the  American 
Indians,  another  scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  in  this  scripture 
is  recorded  how  he  fulfilled  that  promise  of  going  to  his  other  sheep. 
At  the  time  of  his  crucifixion  this  earth  was  rent,  and  the  mountains 
were  made  valleys,  the  valleys  were  made  mountains,  and  buildings 
were  destroyed,  and  many  of  the  people  who  lived  on  the  land  lost 
their  lives.  They  had  been  looking  for  the  time  when  the  Savior 
should  come,  for  Samuel,  the  Lamanite  prophet,  had  told  them 
about  it  and  all  that  would  occur.  They  were  gathered  around 
the  temple;  and  all  at  once  they  heard  a  voice,  but  they  did  not 
understand  it.  And  they  heard  it  a  second  time;  and  still  they  could 
not  tell  where  it  came  from.  And  then  they  heard  it  the  third  time, 
and  this  time  they  understood,  and  looking  up,  saw  the  heavens  open, 
and  a  glorified  Being  came  down  and  stood  among  them.  Had  there 
been  any  doubt  in  their  minds  as  to  who  it  was,  he  dispelled  it,  be- 
cause he  said,  "Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the  prophets  testi- 
fied shall  come  into  the  world."  ( III  Nephi  11:10.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  all  the  information  that  our  Christ- 
ian brothers  and  sisters  do  with  regard  to  the  life  of  the  Savior  in 
the  Bible,  and  in  addition  to  that,  we  have  the  story  of  his  coming 
to  the  people  on  this  western  hemisphere,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  And  when  he  came  among  them,  he  talked  to  them  as  he 
had  to  those  in  the  old  world.  When  he  was  ready  to  leave  them, 
he  blessed  them,  he  healed  their  sick  and  took  their  children  up  in 
his  arms  and  wept  over  them.  And  after  being  with  them  two  or  three 
days,  coming  and  going,  they  saw  him  ascend  into  heaven. 

Experiences  of  Joseph  Smith 

In  1820  Joseph  Smith,  the  boy  prophet  not  yet  fifteen  years  of 
age,  seeking  to  know  what  Church  he  should  join  because  of  the 
confusion  in  his  neighborhood — his  mother  insisted  he  belong  to  one 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday.  October  1  Third  Day 

church  and  his  father  to  another — went  out  in  the  woods  to  pray. 
This  boy  had  read  in  the  Bible,  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and 
it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.)  He  went  out  into  the  woods 
and  put  it  to  the  test.  As  he  knelt  there,  the  adversary  sought  to 
overpower  him  and  he  was  stricken,  but  suddenly  a  bright  light  ap- 
peared. Two  glorified  Beings  were  standing  in  the  air  above  him  in 
the  woods  near  Palmyra,  New  York.  He  saw  them,  and  they  asked 
him  what  he  wanted,  and  he  asked  which  of  all  the  churches  he 
should  join.  One  of  them  spoke  to  him  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other, 
"This  is  My  Beloved  Son,  Hear  Him!"  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Joseph 
Smith  2:17.)  Almost  the  same  language  that  was  used  by  the  Father 
when  Jesus  came  up  out  of  the  waters  of  baptism — "This  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  (Matthew  3:17.)  So  when 
Joseph  the  boy  wanted  to  know  what  to  do,  he  was  told  by  the 
Savior  himself. 

Additional  Light 

I  say  to  you  we  not  only  have  all  that  the  world  has  with  regard 
to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  as  recorded  in  the  Bible, 
but  also  we  have  the  story  of  another  book,  known  as  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  the  account  of  his  appearing  in  this  western  hemis- 
phere, the  tradition  of  which  has  been  among  the  Indians  ever  since; 
and  we  also  have  the  story  of  another  man  who  gave  his  life  as  a 
witness  that  he  knew  that  God  lives  and  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  refer 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  if  men  and  women,  with  all  the  truth 
that  they  have,  would  retain  all  the  wonderful  things  that  have  been 
passed  on  through  the  prophets  of  God,  and  then  let  us  share  with 
them  the  additional  information  the  Lord  has  revealed  since  the 
Holy  Bible  was  made  accessible  to  the  world,  what  a  difference  it 
would  make.  I  remember  a  very  fine  doctor,  who  was  a  good  member 
of  the  Jewish  church  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  and  who  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  I  became  well-acquainted  with  him,  and  he  said  to  me 
one  day,  "There  isn't  a  man  living  in  the  world  today  that  could 
write  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  must  be  something  more  than  the  work 
of  man."  I  have  known  many  people,  who,  having  read  it,  and 
prayed  about  it,  have  received  a  witness  that  it  is  true. 

Inspiration  of  Almighty 

What  I  want  to  emphasize  is  this:  Not  only  do  we  have  all  that 
is  contained  in  these  sacred  records,  but  also  when  you  have  received 
the  gospel,  been  baptized,  had  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
laid  upon  your  head  and  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  you  have  a  right 
to  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  if  you  live  to  be  worthy  of  it. 
Ought  we  not  to  be  grateful  for  our  many  blessings?  What  a  won- 
derful thing  to  live  in  a  land  like  America  and  to  have  all  the  ad- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  159 


vantages  that  we  have.  I  feel  so  grateful  for  my  privileges  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  my  companionship  with  the  men  and 
women  of  this  Church  and  of  other  churches.  I  am  grateful  to  have 
a  host  of  friends  in  the  various  churches  of  the  world,  scattered  in 
different  places.  I  am  grateful  for  those  friendships,  but  I  will  not 
be  satisfied  until  I  can  share  with  them  some  of  the  things  which 
they  have  not  yet  received.  And  that  is  the  thing  we  must  keep  in 
our  minds;  it  is  our  responsibility  to  bear  the  word.  Let  us  do  the 
things  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do  and  keep  his  commandments  and  be 
worthy  of  the  blessings  that  we  enjoy  that  are  superior  to  those  of 
most  people  in  all  the  world. 

Obedience  Brings  Blessings 

This  is  the  closing  session  of  this  great  conference.  It  will  be 
another  six  months  before  we  are  again  brought  together  in  this 
capacity,  as  far  as  we  know  now.  But  in  that  six  months  we  do  not 
know  what  may  occur.  Reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that 
many  of  our  boys  and  some  of  our  girls  are  already  being  taken 
away  preparatory  for  another  war.  War  is  the  result  of  sin,  not 
righteousness.  And  if  we  want  to  avoid  war  and  avoid  the  responsi- 
bilities that  come,  our  duty  is  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and 
he  has  promised  that  if  we  will  do  that  we  will  enjoy  blessings  that 
we  cannot  enjoy  in  any  other  way. 

I  am  happy  to  be  with  you  today.  We  have  had  a  wonderful 
time.  We  are  grateful  to  this  wonderful  choir  that  sings  to  the  world 
every  Sunday,  a  choir  that  has  rendered  1102  programs,  broadcast 
to  the  world.  We  are  not  depending  entirely  upon  the  nearly  six 
thousand  missionaries.  We  also  have  the  radio,  and  thousands  of 
people  listen  in  to  the  program  that  is  given  each  week  by  this  won- 
derful choir,  an  unpaid  organization  that  is  doing  missionary  work 
for  the  blessings  of  mankind. 

Now  are  you  happy?  If  you  are  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God,  I  am  sure  you  are  happy.  We  have  much  to  do.  You  have 
heard  something  about  preparing  a  temple  at  Los  Angeles. 

Plans  and  Accomplishments 

The  first  plans  have  been  approved  so  that  the  temple  may  be 
constructed  just  as  soon  as  the  detailed  plans  are  prepared.  It  will 
add  another  temple.  We  are  the  only  people  in  the  world  who  know 
what  temples  are  for,  and  how  wonderful  it  is  that  we  can  build  a 
temple  without  feeling  the  loss  of  the  expense.  We  have  been  build- 
ing temples  and  building  meetinghouses  all  these  years.  Since  the  war, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  people  that  be- 
long to  this  organization,  have  sent  130-odd  carloads  of  food,  bed- 
ding, and  clothing  to  the  people  across  the  sea  because  they  needed 
it,  and  they  were  made  a  present  of  it.  Yet  our  granaries  are  filled 
today.  Our  root  cellars  are  being  filled  now.  Our  little  workshops 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  1  Third  Dag 

where  clothing  is  made  and  where  second-hand  clothing  is  repaired 
and  made  desirable  are  filling  up  again,  and  I  want  to  say  that  I  do 
not  know  of  any  people  in  the  world  that  are  more  richly  blessed 
than  we,  notwithstanding  our  constant  giving  that  has  been  referred 
to  here.  They  who  give  to  the  poor,  but  lend  to  the  Lord,  and  he  is 
a  wonderful  paymaster. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  do  our  part.  Harken  to  the  advice 
that  has  come  to  us  here  during  these  sessions  of  conference.  This 
is  the  Lord's  house.  His  Spirit  has  been  here,  and  we  have  been  up- 
lifted and  blessed  thereby.  I  pray  that  the  power  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  may  go  with  you  workers  of  this  Church,  you  members, 
wherever  you  go,  that  your  homes  may  be  the  abiding  place  of  the 
spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  your  sons  and  daughters  may 
grow  up  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord,  that  you  may 
love  your  neighbors,  and  that  means  members  of  the  Church  and 
those  that  are  not:  That  means  all  who  seek  to  be  what  the  Lord 
would  have  them  be.  I  pray  that  each  of  us  may  feel  day  by  day 
the  assurance  that  so  many  of  you  have,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God. 
I  know  that  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  and  I  bear  that  witness  to 
you  in  humility,  and  realizing  the  seriousness  of  such  a  statement  if 
it  were  not  true,  I  still  bear  this  testimony  to  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Behold,  God  the  Lord 
Passed  By." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Walter  Adolph 
Hunzeker  of  the  Montpelier  Stake,  Idaho,  after  which  this  Confer- 
ence will  adjourn  sine  die. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  7:00  P.  M.  tonight.  All  Sunday  School  workers  will 
wish  to  be  in  attendance. 

All  calls  that  come  to  us  will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of 
this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds. 

The  choir  music  for  today's  sessions  of  the  Conference  has 
been  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall conducting  and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  for  the  morn- 
ing session,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  for  the  after- 
noon session. 

I  wish  to  take  this  occasion  to  thank  this  fine  choir  and  the  or- 
ganists and  the  other  choirs  too,  that  have  been  singing  for  us  dur- 
ing the  Conference.  Go  where  you  will  in  all  the  world  and  you  will 
find  no  such  choir  as  the  one  that  sings  in  this  building  accompanied 
by  the  great  organ  we  all  think  so  much  of. 

And  now  again,  brethren  and  sisters,  peace,  love,  kindness  and 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  161 


the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  be  with  you  henceforth  and 
forever,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed  By." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  Walter  Adolph  Hun- 
zeker  of  the  Montepelier  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  September  30,  1950. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  conducted  the 
services. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

There  are  two  buildings  being  filled  besides  this.  Surely  Zion 
is  growing! 

We  will  start  our  meeting  by  the  Male  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  director,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ,  joining  with  the  congregation  in  singing  as 
an  opening  song — I  want  you  to  notice  the  title  of  it — -"Do  What 
Is  Right." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus  and  the  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  James  A.  Criddle  of  the  Portneuf  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus  sang  the  hymn  "I  Know 
That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  think,  brethren,  that  this  is  our  largest  group  of  men  at  a  Priest- 
hood meeting.  Zion  seems  to  be  growing. 

We  have  met  tonight  to  wait  upon  the  Lord.  We  are  not  here 
out  of  curiosity  and  we  are  not  here  to  get  in  out  of  the  weather. 
We  are  here  in  this  comfortable  mansion  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  wait  upon  him,  and  I  am  sure  if  we  will  exercise  our  faith  and 
prayers  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  we  will  be  fed  the  bread  of  life. 

Our  first  speaker  tonight  will  be  President  David  O.  McKay. 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30 


Second  Day 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

When  we  realize  that  the  twelve  thousand  or  more  members  of 
the  priesthood  quorums  assembled  here  tonight  can  say,  each  one  in 
his  own  heart,  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,"  we  can  sense  at 
least  dimly  the  strength  of  this  Church,  for  upon  the  priesthood  rests 
the  structure,  the  entire  structure  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Evidences  of  Progress 

We  have  cause  to  be  thankful  that  we  have  many  evidences 
today  of  the  mervelous  growth  of  this  work.  In  the  mission  fields, 
we  have  more  missionaries  than  we  have  ever  had  before,  nearly 
six  thousand,  not  counting  the  missionaries  in  the  stakes  of  Zion; 
tithing  is  greater  than  ever  and  increasing;  baptisms  in  the  field  are 
greater;  only  within  the  last  two  weeks  we  had  reports  of  a  hundred 
and  fifty  baptisms  in  one  mission  in  August;  another,  in  the  same 
month,  two  hundred  and  sixty-three,  and  these  are  converts,  not 
children.  The  stakes  and  wards  are  increasing.  More  Church  edi- 
fices are  now  under  construction  than  we  have  ever  had  before  in 
the  history  of  the  Church.  All  these  are  sure  evidences  of  progress; 
and  this  attendance  tonight  is  another, — one  of  the  most  encourag- 
ing. As  President  Smith  has  said,  you  are  not  here  out  of  curiosity. 
You  are  not  here  because  of  any  special  attraction.  You  are  here 
because  you  respect  your  calling.  You  honor  your  priesthood  be- 
cause of  the  sense  of  the  responsibility  that  you  carry.  Each  of  you 
who  holds  the  priesthood  carries  a  certain  amount  of  responsibility 
for  the  success  of  God's  work.  That  realization,  that  willingness  to 
respond  to  duty,  has  brought  together  tonight,  on  this  September 
30,  1950,  the  largest  assembly  of  priesthood,  I  believe,  ever  held  in 
the  Church  at  a  priesthood  meeting. 

The  assembly  of  itself  is  an  inspiration,  especially  when  you 
contemplate  its  significance,  and  realize  that  in  the  brotherhood  of 
Christ  we  are  all  one,  supporting  one  another.  It  is  sublime. 

I  pray  for  your  sympathy,  for  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  above 
all,  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  that  what  I  may  say  may  be  of 
worth,  of  interest,  and  contributive  to  the  advancement  of  God's 
work. 

Need  of  Reverence 

I  have,  really,  on  my  mind  but  one  message.  I  am  going  to  say 
one  appeal  for  this  vast  audience  of  leaders.  I  believe  there  is  one 
great  need  in  the  Church  which  you  presidencies  of  stakes,  bishoprics 
of  wards,  presidencies  of  quorums,  and  officers  in  auxiliaries,  can 
supply.  I  have  in  mind  the  need  of  more  reverence  in  our  houses  of 
worship,  better  order  and  discipline  in  our  classrooms,  in  quorum 
meetings  and  in  auxiliary  groups. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


163 


The  more  we  try  to  cultivate  the  attributes  of  the  Savior,  the 
stronger  we  become  in  character  and  in  spirituality,  and  those  are 
the  two  great  purposes  of  life,  so  to  live  that  we  may  be  susceptible 
to  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  to  his  guidance. 

Overcome  Evil  Tendencies 

I  do  not  know  who  it  was  who  wrote  many  years  ago  that  the 
whole  purpose  of  life  might  be  summed  up  in  these  words:  "To  sub- 
due matter  that  we  might  realize  the  ideal." 

When  I  first  read  that  I  thought  I  could  paraphrase  it  and  say, 
"The  whole  purpose  of  life  is  to  bring  under  subjection  the  animal 
passions,  proclivities  and  tendencies,  that  we  might  realize  the  com- 
panionship, always,  of  God's  Holy  Spirit."  I  think  that  is  the  ideal. 
One  chief  purpose  of  life  is  to  overcome  evil  tendencies,  to  govern 
our  appetites,  to  control  our  passions, — anger,  hatred,  jealousy,  im- 
morality. We  have  to  overcome  them;  we  have  to  subject  them,  con- 
quer them,  because  God  has  said:  "My  spirit  will  not  dwell  in  un- 
clean tabernacles,  nor  will  it  always  strive  with  man." 

A  Divine  Attribute 

The  principle  of  self-control  lies  at  the  basis  of  reverence  and 
good  order  in  classrooms.  I  do  not  know  how  to  define  reverence, 
but  I  do  know  how  to  classify  or  to  place  it  as  one  of  the  objectives 
of  nobility,  indeed,  one  of  the  attributes  of  deity. 

Love  is  the  divinest  attribute  of  the  human  soul.  I  am  not  so 
sure  but  sympathy  is  next  to  it, — sympathy  for  the  afflicted,  for  suf- 
fering animals,  for  our  brethren  and  sisters.  That  is  a  God-like  virtue. 

Kindness  is  also  a  sublime  virtue.  The  first  sentence  in  what  is 
now  known  as  the  Psalm  of  .Love  is  this:  "Love  suffereth  long  and 
is  kind." 

However,  in  my  thought  tonight,  I  am  prompted  to  place  rev- 
erence next  to  Love.  Jesus  mentioned  it  first  in  the  Lord's  prayer: 
"Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name  .  .  ."  Hallow 
— to  make  holy— to  hold  in  reverence. 

When  Jesus  cleansed  the  temple,  he  was  filled  with  reverent 
indignation  because  men  were  desecrating  his  Father's  house,  selling 
doves  and  lambs  to  be  offered  as  sacrifice.  Money  changers  were 
there  for  the  convenience  of  those  who  came  from  other  countries, 
so  they  could  give  in  local  currency  their  temple  contributions.  Seem- 
ingly, in  their  own  eyes,  they  were  justified,  but  they  were  doing 
these  things  in  the  House  of  God.  We  are  told  that  he  overturned 
the  money  changers'  tables,  and  said  to  the  sellers  of  doves,  "Take 
these  things  hence.  Make  not  my  Father's  house  a  house  of  mer- 
chandise." 

Reverence  Defined 
"Reverence,"  wrote  Ruskin,  "is  the  noblest  state  in  which  a  man 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Dag 

can  live  in  the  world.  Reverence  is  one  of  the  signs  of  strength;  ir- 
reverence one  of  the  surest  indications  of  weakness.  No  man  will 
rise  high  who  jeers  at  sacred  things.  The  fine  loyalties  of  life  must 
be  reverenced  or  they  will  be  foresworn  in  the  day  of  trial." 

Charles  Jefferson,  the  author  of  "The  Character  of  Jesus"  writes: 
"Men  in  many  circles  are  clever,  interesting,  brilliant,  but  they  lack 
one  of  the  three  dimensions  of  life.  They  have  no  reach  upward. 
Their  conversation  sparkles,  but  it  is  frivolous  and  often  flippant. 
Their  talk  is  witty,  but  the  wit  is  often  at  the  expense  of  high  and 
sacred  things." 

You  can  tell  a  true  soul  of  wit  by  the  things  of  which  he  makes 
light.  The  best  humorous  writers  avoid  making  light  of  religion,  or 
of  sacred  things. 

Jefferson  continues:  "One  finds  this  lack  of  reverence  even  in 
the  church.  In  every  community  there  are  those  who  treat  the  House 
of  God  as  they  treat  a  streetcar,  entering  it  and  leaving  it  when  they 
please.  Even  habitual  church  attendants  often  surprise  and  shock 
one  by  their  irreverent  behavior  in  the  House  of  Prayer.  Those  per- 
sons are  not  ignoramuses  or  barbarians;  they  are  simply  undeveloped 
in  the  virtue  of  reverence." 

Order  in  Classrooms 

Our  classrooms  are  sometimes  places  of  boisterousness.  Here 
is  where  we  need  good  teachers.  A  teacher  who  can  present  a  lesson 
interestingly  will  have  good  order,  and  when  he  or  she  finds  students 
who  are  rebellious,  flipping  papers,  paying  no  attention,  stumbling, 
kicking  one  another,  he  or  she  may  know  that  the  lesson  is  not  be- 
ing properly  presented.  Perhaps  it  was  not  even  properly  prepared. 

One  of  our  mothers  recently  went  to  a  Sunday  School  class  to 
try  to  find  out  why  her  son  was  losing  interest.  There  was  so  much 
boisterousness,  so  much  confusion,  so  much  noise,  that  she  felt  heart- 
sick; and  as  she  arose  to  leave  she  said  to  the  teacher:  "I  thought 
this  was  a  Sunday  School  class,  not  bedlam!" 

Self-Control  Exemplified 

I  have  said  something  about  self-control,  self-mastery,  as  being 
one  of  the  fundamental  purposes  of  life.  You  see  it  exemplified  in  the 
life  of  the  Savior,  on  the  Mount  of  Temptation,  when  he  resisted  the 
tempter,  who  said:  "If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command  that  these 
stones  be  made  bread," — an  appeal  to  his  appetite.  "Man  shall 
not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of 
the  mouth  of  God." 

"If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,"  again  strong  in  his  taunting,  "Cast 
thyself  down;  for  it  is  written" — he  quotes  scripture — "He  shall  give 
his  angels  charge  concerning  thee,  and  in  their  hands  they  shall 
bear  thee  up,  lest  at  any  time  thou  dash  thy  foot  against  a  stone." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


165 


"It  is  written,"  said  the  Savior,  "Thou  shalt  not  tempt  the  Lord 
thy  God." 

In  the  next  temptation  Satan  is  not  taunting,  but  pleading.  "All 
these  things  will  I  give  thee,"  showing  him  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world,  "if  thou  wilt  fall  down  and  worship  me." 

That  is  a  lesson  of  life.  The  tempter  was  foiled,  taunting  at  first, 
strong  in  his  assurance  that  he  could  tempt,  but  at  last  pleading,  and 
finally  banished.  "Get  thee  hence,  Satan,  for  it  is  written,  thou  shalt 
worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  And 
angels  came  and  administered  to  him. 

Now  then,  there  is  a  lesson  of  life  to  us  all.  Satan  tauntingly 
tempts  us,  and  unless  we  resist  and  have  in  mind  a  higher  goal  than 
the  mere  indulgence  or  gratification  of  the  physical,  we  are  going 
to  weaken,  and  the  tempter  will  gain  in  strength. 

To  Begin  in  Childhood 

The  lesson  of  self-control  should  begin  in  childhood,  in  the 
home.  Little  children  should  have  a  sense  of  freedom  to  do  as  they 
wish  up  to  a  certain  point.  Beyond  that  point  they  cannot  go,  and 
that  is  when  that  freedom  interferes  with  the  rights,  comfort  or  con- 
venience of  another  member  of  the  family. 

I  have  told  before  about  an  incident  that  occurred  in  a  zoo. 
It  is  simple,  and  some  probably  may  think  we  should  not  go  to  the 
monkeys  for  lessons.  I  think  they  can  teach  us  some.  Sister  McKay 
and  I  stood  one  day,  I  believe  it  was  at  San  Diego,  watching  a  mother 
monkey  with  a  new  born  babe.  She  was  guarding  it,  her  quick  eye 
watching  the  other  monkeys  in  the  cage;  but  the  little  babe  was  free 
to  do  just  as  it  pleased,  hopping  around,  weak  in  its  infancy,  getting 
hold  of  the  bars,  starting  to  climb.  When  it  would  reach  a  certain 
place,  the  mother  would  reach  up  and  bring  it  back.  When  it  got  into 
a  danger  point,  that  mother  instinctively  guarded  it  and  said,  "Back 
this  way."  And  then  the  babe  was  free  again,  but  only  within  certain 
limits. 

I  said  to  Sister  McKay,  "There  is  a  lesson  of  life  in  guiding 
children." 

Rights  of  Others 

In  the  classrooms  children  should  be  taught,  should  be  free  to 
discuss,  free  to  speak,  free  to  participate  in  classwork,  but  no  member 
of  the  class  has  the  right  to  distract  another  student  by  jostling  or 
making  light  and  frivolous  remarks.  And  I  think  in  this  Church,  in 
the  priesthood  quorums  and  classes  and  in  auxiliaries,  teachers  and 
superintendents  ought  not  to  permit  it.  Disorder  injures  the  child  who 
makes  it.  He  should  learn  that  when  he  is  in  society  there  are  certain 
things  which  he  cannot  do  with  impunity.  He  cannot  trespass  upon 
the  rights  of  his  associates. 

Let  children  learn  this  lesson  in  youth  because  when  they  get 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Day 

out  in  society  and  try  to  trespass  against  the  law,  they  will  feel  the 
restraining  hand  and  probably  suffer  punishment. 

Good  order  in  the  classroom  is  essential  to  instill  into  the  hearts 
and  lives  of  young  men  and  young  women  the  principle  of  self-con- 
trol. They  want  to  talk  and  they  want  to  whisper,  but  they  cannot 
do  it  because  it  will  disturb  somebody  else.  Learn  the  power  and 
lesson  of  self-mastery. 

Reverence  should  be  particularly  manifest  in  sacrament  meeting, 
in  quorum  meetings,  in  Sunday  School,  in  M.I.A.,  in  Primary,  yes, 
and  in  Relief  Society.  This  is  a  missionary  Church.  People  come 
here  for  light  and  knowledge,  for  instruction,  and  they  have  a  right 
to  find  it  when  they  come. 

Extract  from  Letter 

The  following  extract  from  a  letter  that  came  to  the  First  Presi- 
dency last  week  will  illustrate  my  point: 

"About  one  month  ago  two  of  your  missionaries  came  to  my 
door  with  a  Book  of  Mormon.  Since  I  am  a  Catholic,  and  a  Catholic 
writer  for  our  press,  and  since  I  am  fully  acquainted  with  Catholic 
doctrine  and  our  Holy  Bible,  I  at  first  refused  the  offer  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  They,  however,  persisted,  and  as  I  have  permission  to 
read  other  books,  it  being  given  me  by  my  pastor  since  I  am  a  writer, 
I  finally  took  the  book.  Of  course  you  might  well  guess  what  hap- 
pened. Having  been  trained  during  my  sixteen  years  as  a  Catholic 
to  recognize  the  truth  when  I  see,  hear  or  read  it,  I  could  not  very 
well  fail  to  recognize  also  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true.  This  was 
even  more  the  case  when  they  later  brought  what  might  be  termed 
its  companion  book,  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

"Surely  this  is  not  the  kindly,  gentle  Jesus,  as  most  Catholics 
are  taught  to  know  him,  but  just  as  surely  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants this  is  the  voice  of  Jesus  as  he  spoke  to  the  Apostles,  the 
Pharisees  and  scribes,  and  all  the  people  during  his  three  years  of 
public  ministry  on  earth.  Consequently,  I  began  taking  instructions, 
and  your  missionaries  came  twice  a  week  to  hold  cottage  meetings. 

"Then  I  was  taken  to  some  Church  meetings  over  in  Rodeo, 
three  miles  from  here,  and  I  must  admit  that  each  time  I  have  re- 
turned home  broken-hearted  and  mourning  to  myself,  'Oh,  poor 
Jesus,  surely  you  have  made  the  most  miserable  failure  in  your  life 
in  trying  to  establish  your  Church  anew  with  these  people.' 

"During  the  distribution  of  the  bread  and  water  I  can  discern 
no  spirit  of  prayer  or  prayerful  reception  among  the  congregation. 
They  are  just  as  liable  to  be  smiling  and  whispering  together  as  not, 
scarcely  discerning  the  body  of  the  Lord." 

"Your  own  defects  to  know, 

Make  use  of  every  friend  and  every  foe." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


167 


Irreverence  in  Services 

On  September  13  there  came  to  my  desk  this  letter  from  one  of  our 
stake  workers: 

"I  refer  to  pronounced  irreverence  in  our  church  services,  with 
the  noise,  laughter  and  confusion  that  often  accompanies  such  a  con- 
dition. This  is  responsible  for  considerable  criticism  and  dissatisfac- 
tion and  results  in  absenting  many  members  from  the  meetings.  Our 
home,  stake  missionaries,  are  seriously  handicapped  in  their  work 
as  many  fear  to  bring  investigators  to  our  meetings  while  this  con- 
dition of  irreverence  prevails. 

"The  trouble  is  often  intensified  by  reason  of  frivolous  remarks 
by  speakers  on  the  stand,  and  outbursts  of  laughter  from  the  audi- 
ence, in  which  the  children  feel  free  to  participate.  This  is  a  sad  ad- 
mission in  connection  with  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

"Irreverence  in  God's  house  is  not  conducive  to  the  best  in- 
terests of  the  sacrament  administration  and  God  must  be  displeased 
with  the  insincerity  of  his  children  who  partake  of  the  sacred  emblems 
carelessly,  devoid  of  reverence  that  should  characterize  true  worship." 

Improvement  Noted 

I  should  like  to  say  here  that  my  observation  leads  me  to  believe 
that  we  have  made  a  wonderful  step  in  that.  I  have  not  been  in  a  house 
of  worship,  either  in  Sunday  School  or  in  sacrament  meeting,  where 
the  order  during  the  administering  of  the  sacrament  has  not  been 
just  as  perfect  as  it  is  at  this  moment  in  this  building.  A  baby's  voice, 
perhaps,  somewhere,  but  God  is  not  displeased  with  a  baby's  voice, 
when  the  parents  and  others  are  reverently  thinking  of  the  covenants 
they  are  making.  However,  the  writer  of  this  letter  seems  to  have  had 
a  different  experience. 

I  plead  with  you  to  develop  this  Christ-like  attribute  of  reverence 
in  our  houses  of  worship  and  better  discipline  in  our  classrooms.  And 
I  believe  that  you  brethren  can  lead  in  it. 

Elders'  Example  Followed 

I  remember  in  1923,  attending  a  conference  at  Burnley,  Liver- 
pool Conference.  Brothers  and  sisters  came  from  various  parts  of  the 
district,  and  happy  to  see  one  another  as  you  missionaries  know  they 
are,  shaking  hands,  members  of  the  Church  happy  to  see  the  elders, 
shaking  hands  with  them,  and  the  elders  joining  in  social  greetings. 

The  meeting  was  held  on  the  third  floor  of  a  public  hall.  In  the 
adjoining  room  the  sisters  were  preparing  the  lunch.  We  could  hear 
the  rattle  of  tin  pans  and  of  other  receptacles.  Ten  o'clock  came  and 
there  was  still  noise.  It  was  fully  five  minutes  before  there  was  order. 

Six  months  from  that  time  when  we  held  a  meeting  with  the 
elders  in  that  district,  prior  to  the  opening  of  the  conference,  we  said: 
"Brethren,  the  Lord  is  not  displeased  with  our  greetings,  expressions 
of  love  and  brotherhood,  but  he  is  displeased  with  the  irreverent 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

attitude,  and  we  have  some  choice  people,  strangers  who  are  not 
used  to  this  free  intercourse  of  greetings  so  characteristic  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  meetings.  So  tomorrow  morning,  after  you  have  greeted 
your  friends  from  various  places,  without  any  announcement,  at  seven 
minutes  to  ten  o'clock,  you  quietly  take  your  seats.  Do  not  say  a  word. 
You  just  go  to  your  assigned  places." 

They  did  so  and  at  four  minutes  to  ten  o'clock  every  member 
of  that  district  in  attendance  at  the  conference,  following  the  example 
of  the  missionaries,  was  in  his  or  her  seat,  and  there  was  order  even 
before  the  hour  of  opening  arrived. 

Reverence  Enjoined 

It  is  said  that  "Where  two  or  three  are  gathered  in  my  name, 
there  will  I  be  to  bless  them,"  and  I  tell  you  when  he  is  present  we 
should  be  reverent. 

Someone  said  if  Shakespeare  were  to  enter  this  hall  tonight,  we 
should  all  stand  up  to  greet  him,  but  if  Christ  entered,  we  should  fall 
on  our  knees  and  worship  him. 

God  bless  you,  brethren,  as  leaders  in  Israel,  as  guides  to  youth, 
to  increase  your  influence  with  those  among  whom  you  labor.  The 
Lord  help  us  to  sanctify  our  houses  of  worship,  that  our  chapels 
may  be  indeed  sacred  places  in  which  we  meet  to  worship  God,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Male  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  Congrega- 
tion joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren,  again  I  sense  that  this  is  a  great  privilege  to  stand 
before  you  for  a  few  minutes,  and  to  say  something  to  you  that  I 
hope  may  be  helpful.  Before  I  finish  I  shall  want  to  return  to  my  solo 
on  the  G  string,  "Unity,"  but  I  want  to  say  a  little  something  before- 
hand, and  I  trust  the  Lord  will  be  with  me  that  what  I  say  may  be 
in  harmony  with  what  He  would  have  said. 

The  Priesthood 

The  question  of  the  priesthood  has  always  been  to  me  an  al- 
luring question,  and  not  only  alluring,  but  more  or  less  elusive.  We 
use  the  word  priesthood  apparently  in  at  least  two,  if  not  three, 
senses.  We  use  it  sometimes  to  mean  the  power  of  the  priesthood. 
I  suppose  in  fact  the  priesthood  is  power.  We  use  it  sometimes  to 
indicate  the  organization  through  which  the  priesthood  operates, 
and  we  use  it  sometimes,  apparently,  to  indicate  the  service  which 
the  priesthood  is  to  render. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


169 


I  am  going  to  read  two  or  three  extracts  from  the  brethren 
of  the  past  regarding  the  priesthood.  The  Prophet  Joseph  said: 
"The  priesthood  is  an  everlasting  principle  and  existed  with  God 
from  eternity,  and  will  to  eternity,  without  beginning  of  days  or 
end  of  years.  The  keys  have  to  be  brought  from  heaven  whenever 
the  gospel  is  sent.  When  they  are  revealed  from  heaven  it  is  by 
Adam's  authority." 

On  another  occasion  the  Prophet  said  that  Adam  received 
the  priesthood  before  the  world  was  created. 

Pre-existent  Calling 

You  may  remember  that  as  the  account  is  given  in  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  Book  of  Abraham,  the  Father  told  Abraham  that 
sometime  he  had  come  down  and  organized  the  spirits,  and  then 
he  told  Abraham  that  when  he  came  down  among  them  he  found 
many  that  were  great  and  good,  and  further  on  he  said  to  Abraham, 
and  I  will  read  this  to  you: 

".  .  .  there  were  many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones;  And  God 
saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of 
them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among 
those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and 
he  said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen 
before  thou  wast  born." 

Following  upon  this  general  principle,  the  Prophet  Joseph  said: 
"Every  man  who  has  a  calling,"  every  man,  "to  minister  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  world  was  ordained  to  that  very  purpose  in  the 
grand  council  of  heaven  before  this  world  was.  I  suppose,"  said  he, 
"that  I  was  ordained  to  this  very  office  in  that  grand  council." 

Brigham  Young  Quoted 

Now  I  think  I  might  read  two  statements  from  Brigham  Young: 
"If  anybody  wants  to  know  what  the  priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God 
is,  it  is  the  law  by  which  the  worlds  are,  were  and  will  continue 
forever  and  ever.  It  is  that  system  which  brings  worlds  into  existence 
and  peoples  them,  gives  them  their  revolutions,  their  days,  weeks, 
months,  years,  their  seasons  and  times,  and  by  which  they  are  rolled 
up  as  a  scroll,  as  it  were,  and  grown  to  a  higher  state  of  existence." 

And  on  another  occasion  he  declared  the  priesthood  to  be  "a 
perfect  system  of  government,  of  laws  and  ordinances,  by  which  we 
can  be  prepared  to  pass  from  one  gate  to  another  and  from  one 
sentinel  to  another  until  we  go  into  the  presence  of  our  Father 
and  God." 

These  various  quotations  must  inevitably  lead  us  to  a  great 
deal  of  reflection,  and  as  I  have  indicated,  to  me  they  suggest  we 
are  using  the  term,  priesthood,  in  the  manner  that  I  have  spoken 
about. 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Dag 

Analogy  Made 


Now,  I  have  often  wondered  if  I  could  find  an  analogy  to  the 
priesthood,  and  the  best  I  have  been  able  to  do  is  to  liken  the 
priesthood  to  citizenship.  Potentially  every  citizen  of  the  United 
States  is  a  president  of  the  United  States,  speaking  generally  and 
disregarding  the  limitations  as  to  who  may  be  president,  but  we 
are  not  all  presidents.  Every  one  of  us  may  be  a  senator  or  a 
congressman.  We  have  that  power  as  citizens.  We  may  be  gover- 
nors; we  may  be  state  legislators;  we  may  be  city  councilmen;  we 
may  be  county  commissioners;  we  may  be  judges.  All  of  these  or 
each  of  them  or  any  of  them  may  come  to  any  citizen,  but  in  order 
to  exercise  any  particular  function  we  must  be  duly  appointed  to 
it  or  duly  elected  to  it. 

Now  there  are  many  differences  between  citizenship  and 
priesthood,  many.  One  that  occurs  to  one  offhand  is  that  a  man 
elected  to  be  a  judge  in  one  locality,  one  jurisdiction,  loses  that 
power  when  he  moves  to  another  jurisdiction.  That  is  not  true  of 
the  priesthood.  A  man  remains  a  deacon  wherever  he  goes,  or  a 
high  priest,  and  may  perform  his  functions  under  certain  limi- 
tations and  rules. 

But  we  do  not  now  have  the  keys  to  do  some  of  the  things 
which  Brother  Brigham  said  the  priesthood  was  to  do,  or  that  the 
priesthood  did,  for  example,  the  creation  and  the  governing  of 
worlds.  I  can  think  of  this  situation,  this  power  in  terms  of  human 
government,  civil  government;  the  powers  of  sovereignty  that  rest 
in  the  people  and  that  are  delegated  to  government,  to  be  exercised, 
by  this  man  as  a  governor,  by  that  man  as  a  senator,  and  by  another 
man  as  a  president  of  the  United  States.  So  do  we  in  the  priesthood. 
Each  one  of  us,  as  it  seems  to  me,  has  certain  functions  of  the  whole 
priesthood.  A  deacon  has  his,  the  teacher  has  his,  the  priest  his,  and 
so  on.  And  while  under  the  priesthood,  a  man  in  a  high  place  may 
perform  all  the  functions  of  those  who  are  below,  the  one  in  the 
lower  bracket  may  not  perform  the  functions  of  anybody  in  the 
higher  bracket.  This  principle  does  not  of  course  obtain  in  our 
civil  government. 

Ordination  in  Grand  Council 

I  do  not  know  whether  we  have  a  right  to  interpret  the  Prophet's 
statement,  "Every  man  who  has  a  calling  to  administer  to  the  in- 
habitants of  the  world  was  ordained  to  that  very  purpose  in  the 
grand  council  of  heaven,  before  the  world  was,"  I  do  not  know  that 
we  may  interpret  that  to  mean  any  but  those  who  have  charge  of 
dispensations  or  are  leaders  therein,  but  I  like  to  think  that  it  does 
include  those  of  us  of  lesser  calling  and  lesser  stature.  We  have 
been  told  ever  since  I  was  old  enough  to  remember  that  those  who 
are  coming  forth  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  choice  spirits, 
and  I  like  to  think  that  perhaps  in  that  grand  council  something 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  171 


at  least  was  said  to  us  indicating  what  would  be  expected  of  us, 
and  empowering  us,  subject  to  the  re-confirmation  here,  to  do  certain 
things  in  building  up  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

Each  Part  Has  Own  Function 

Now  the  lesson  that  I  would  like  to  get  out  of  that,  has  been 
referred  to  by  President  McKay,  and  that  is  that  this  whole 
priesthood  organization — I  am  now  using  the  term  in  the  sense 
of  organization — each  part  of  it,  has  its  own  function,  and  each  man 
belonging  to  the  given  order  of  priesthood,  deacon,  teacher, 
priest,  and  so  on,  has  certain  things  to  do.  If  a  quorum  fails  in  a 
ward,  the  ward  is  not  carrying  on  as  it  should.  If  a  member  fails  in 
a  quorum,  the  quorum  is  not  carrying  on  as  it  should.  We  are  all 
bound  together  as  one,  and  insofar  as  we  fail,  as  individuals,  to 
carry  on  the  work  which  we  are  supposed  to  do,  we  are  to  that 
extent  hindering  the  carrying  on  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  to 
that  extent  we  are  responsible  for  the  lack  or  fulness  of  growth  that 
may  occur  on  account  of  our  failure. 

There  is  no  escape,  as  I  see  it,  brethren,  from  that  conclusion. 

Perfect  System  of  Government 

Now,  before  passing  to  the  unity  matter,  I  wish  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Prophet  said  we  had  a  perfect  system, 
"the  priesthood  was  a  perfect  system  of  government." 

Have  you  ever  thought,  and  if  you  have  not  I  suggest  you 
do  think  about  it,  that  if  the  civil  government  of  any  of  our  com- 
munities were  to  be  suddenly  wiped  out,  that  the  Church  organi- 
zation could  govern  the  community  if  it  were  given  the  necessary 
civil  sanction.  To  illustrate,  our  teachers  who  are  to  keep  the  Church 
in  order,  could  act  as  the  police  force.  Our  bishops  are  authorized  to 
hold  court,  the  high  council  and  the  president  of  the  stake  another 
court,  both  of  appellate  and  of  original  jurisdiction,  with  an  appeal 
to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  from  that  decision.  And  in  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  President  of  the  Church  resides 
the  power  and  authority  to  make  all  necessary  rules  and  regulations 
for  the  government  of  the  people. 

We  have  already,  therefore,  set  up  in  this  Church  of  ours,  an 
organization  of  the  Priesthood  which  could  govern  any  community 
if  it  were  given  the  necessary  civil  sanction,  and  if  chaos  should 
come,  and  if  we  travel  along  our  present  line  far  enough  it  will 
come,  some  of  you  may  live  to  see  the  necessity  of  such  an  action 
as  that. 

Individual  Responsibility 

Now,  brethren,  coming  back  to  our  individual  responsibility 
for  the  welfare  of  the  carrying  on  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Every 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Day 

man  having  his  own  place  must,  if  he  is  to  fulfill  his  full  duty  and 
perform  his  full  functions,  work  with  those  about  him.  He  cannot  go 
off  on  a  line  of  his  own  and  still  help  to  carry  on  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  The  quorum  must  be  united  if  it  is  to  function  properly,  and 
united  means  seeing  and  working  eye  to  eye.  The  ward  and  all 
the  quorums  in  it  must  so  function  if  the  ward  is  to  carry  on  and  do 
its  work  as  it  should.  So  with  the  stake  and  so  with  the  Church  as 
a  whole. 

Urges  Unity 

And  now  I  will  repeat  to  you,  brethren,  what  I  have  said  to  you 
every  time  I  have  had  the  opportunity  to  talk  to  you,  and  that  has 
been  every  time  since  I  came  into  this  position,  and  I  believe  I  have 
attended  every  general  priesthood  meeting  since  then;  if  we  were 
united  there  is  nothing  that  the  body  of  priesthood  of  this  Church 
might  not  do  within  the  functions  of  the  priesthood,  no  matter  what 
it  is.  And  I  say  to  you  further  that  if  we  saw  eye  to  eye  on 
matters  of  civil  government,  which  we  are  not  likely  to  do,  there 
is  nothing  we  might  not  accomplish  there  within  the  places  and 
jurisdictions  where  we  live. 

Now,  brethren,  I  again  pray,  as  I  have  always,  that  we  will 
be  united.  The  Lord  has  laid  down  with  sufficient  clearness  that 
none  of  us  needs  have  any  doubt  about  it  as  to  what  his  will  is.  He 
set  up  this  government  under  his  divine  guidance,  and  so  far  as 
I  am  concerned,  as  I  have  said  before  so  I  say  now,  this  government 
of  ours  under  the  Constitution,  being  thus  set  up  by  the  Lord,  is 
a  part  of  my  religion,  and  we  shall  not  succeed,  and  we  shall  not 
preserve  our  independence,  our  free  institutions,  our  liberties, 
unless  we  safeguard  our  rights  under  the  Constitution. 

This  was  said  to  us  in  the  opening  session  of  the  conference 
by  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

May  God  give  us  his  power  and  his  wisdom  and  his  inspir- 
ation to  help  us  do  the  things  that  we  should  do,  to  help  us  magnify 
the  priesthood  which  we  have,  which  is  a  delegation  of  the  power  of 
God  himself — how  greatly  sobering  that  concept  is —  that  we  may 
bring  to  pass  the  things  which  he  has  declared  we  should  do,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  responsibility  of  the  priest- 
hood, and  I  wonder  if  we  fully  appreciate  what  it  means  to  have 
conferred  upon  us  a  portion  of  the  authority  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  officiate,  and  to  teach  the  children  of  men.  The  condition  of  the 
world  today  is  pitiable.  Nobody  knows  what  the  outcome  will  be. 

A  train  pulled  out  of  one  of  the  stations  here  this  week  with  quite 
a  large  number  of  men,  mostly  young  men,  who  are  going  out 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  173 


to  take  part  as  a  portion  of  the  armed  forces  of  the  United 
States.  Every  one  of  those  men  has  lived  where  he  could  have  re- 
ceived the  priesthood,  I  am  sure.  I  do  not  know  how  many  of  them 
have  received  it,  but  some  of  them  have  filled  missions.  History  is 
repeating  itself.  War  and  distress  are  giving  anxiety  and  deep  sor- 
row to  the  peoples  of  this  earth. 

Growth  of  Church 

In  1830  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
organized  with  six  members.  Today  the  Church  numbers  more  than 
a  million  souls.  From  the  six  men  who  were  in  that  meeting  when 
the  Church  was  organized,  and  those  who  have  followed,  the  Church 
has  continued  to  grow  and  develop  into  a  great  organization.  It  may 
interest  you  to  know  that  it  is  estimated  that  in  Barratt  Hall  and 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  here  in  this  building  tonight  there  are  approxi- 
mately fourteen  thousand  men  and  boys  who  hold  the  authority  of 
the  priesthood.  As  has  been  intimated,  this  is  the  largest  gathering 
of  priesthood  in  a  priesthood  meeting  that  we  have  had,  and  the 
work  continues  to  go  forward. 

There  was  a  time  when  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  brought  ridicule  and  annoyance  to  the 
one  who  was  recognized  as  such.  How  different  it  is  today.  Many 
offices  in  the  states  and  territories  and  the  Islands  of  the  sea  where 
our  people  are  located  are  held  by  men  who  hold  the  priesthood. 

I  can  remember  a  visit  that  I  made  in  Washington  at  a  time 
when  our  Representative  from  this  state  was  not  a  member  of  the 
Church.  I  thought  I  would  like  to  go  and  pay  my  respects  to 
him,  but  when  I  called  on  him  he  was  annoyed.  I  was  only  a  young 
man  at  the  time.  Since  then  that  great  body  that  meets  as  a 
Congress  in  the  United  States  has  been  honored  by  representatives 
of  this  Church  and  they  have  made  friends  for  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  because  of  the  dignity  of  their 
attitude  among  their  fellows. 

There  is  not  any  position,  from  the  President  of  the  United 
States  down,  that  may  not  be  held  by  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  if  the  Lord  wills. 

Power  of  the  Priesthood 

When  I  see  this  marvelous  group  of  men  and  boys  here  tonight, 
I  think,  "what  a  power  we  have  in  the  world  that  is  not  recognized 
by  the  world  in  many  cases."  I  spoke  of  the  political  privileges  that 
are  ours,  each  of  us  having  a  right,  if  we  have  qualified,  to  cast  our 
vote;  and  when  we  go  to  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  we  find 
members  of  the  Church  there  who  receive  us  with  consideration,  and 
seek  to  look  after  our  interests  and  keep  us  where  we  ought  to  be, 
not  trailing  along,  but  pushing  forward. 

The  Priesthood  is  what  I  am  thinking  about.  What  a  wonder- 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  September  30  Second  Dag 

ful  privilege  it  is  to  represent  our  Heavenly  Father  by  holding  the 
priesthood,  and  it  does  not  prevent  us  from  going  anywhere  in  the 
world  in  honor,  if  we  dignify  our  calling.  There  are  those  who  do 
not  like  us.  That  is  because  they  do  not  know  who  we  are,  but  little 
by  little,  and  very  rapidly  now,  the  men  such  as  are  sitting  here  to- 
night are  going  out  into  the  world  and  mingling  with  the  people,  and 
it  is  remarkable  what  a  host  of  friends  there  are  scattered  over  the 
earth  not  members  of  the  Church,  who  have  been  brought  to  realize 
the  dignity  and  the  worthwhile  attitude  of  these  men  who  have  the 
priesthood. 

The  Voice  of  Warning 

I  want  to  read  something  from  the  First  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants:  "Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the 
voice  of  him  who  dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men; 
yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  people  from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon 
the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together.  For  verily  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  is  unto  all  men  " 

That  covers  a  good  deal  of  territory,  particularly  when  we  re- 
alize that  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  the  instructions  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  must  be  carried  by  those  who  are  authorized  by  Him  to 
carry  His  messages.  You  see,  we  have  a  great  responsibility. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is 
none  to  escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear 
that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  And 
the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be 
revealed." 

And  then  He  goes  on  and  says:  "And  the  voice  of  warning  shall 
be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have 
chosen  in  these  last  days.  And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall 
stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them." 

It  is  not  a  question  of  our  choice.  It  is  a  question  of  following 
the  instructions,  and  direction  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  .  .  .  Behold, 
this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given 
them  to  publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth." 

Gospel  to  be  Preached 

That  is  a  portion  of  the  First  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  We  who  are  here  tonight  have  been  told  that  there 
are  approximately  six  thousand  of  our  missionaries  scattered 
throughout  the  world,  and  yet  that  is  not  a  drop  in  the  bucket,  bufi 
in  the  Lord's  own  way,  and  He  says  it  will  be  done  by  those  that 
He  directs,  all  the  people  of  the  world  must  be  reached  if  possible 
and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  brought  to  them  as  far  as  we  can  go. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  175 


So  we  have  a  great  responsibility,  my  brethren,  a  tremendous  re- 
sponsibility. 

I  remember  when  I  was  a  child,  I  thought  how  few  we  were. 
At  that  time  there  were  some  difficulties  and  our  people  were  being 
annoyed;  but  then  somebody  said:  "Oh,  never  mind,  the  Lord  and 
one  man  is  a  majority."  So  it  is  not  a  question  of  how  many  of  us 
there  are.  We  have  the  responsibility,  and  in  order  that  we  may 
carry  that  responsibility  we  will  be  placed  in  all  kinds  of  positions 
of  honor  and  trust,  not  only  in  the  Congress  of  the  United  States, 
but  in  our  great  Universities,  and  at  the  head  of  our  great  businesses. 
It  is  marvelous  how  many  things  occur. 

Visit  to  Albany 

I  think  I  will  tell  you  a  little  incident  that  occurred  many  years 
ago.  I  was  in  Washington  and  so  I  wrote  to  the  Governor  of  New 
York  who  at  that  time  was  Charles  Seaman  Whitman  and  told  him 
that  I  was  on  my  way  home  and  if  he  was  going  to  be  in  Albany  on 
such  and  such  a  date,  I  think  it  was  on  Thursday  as  I  remember  it 
now,  that  I  would  be  glad  to  get  off  the  train  and  call  and  pay  my 
respects  and  take  the  next  train  on  home.  I  received  a  telegram  in 
reply,  reading,  "Come  right  along.  I  will  receive  you  here." 

The  result  was  that  I  got  through  in  Washington  a  day  earlier 
than  I  thought  so  I  arrived  in  Albany  a  day  ahead  of  time  and 
went  to  the  Hotel  Teneyck,  with  the  expectation  of  staying  all 
night  and  filling  my  appointment  the  next  day.  I  then  telephoned 
the  Governor's  office  and  learned  that  he  was  out  of  town,  and 
I  told  his  secretary  I  had  an  appointment  with  him.  He  said:  "Yes, 
I  know  and  the  governor  will  be  here  in  time  to  fill  his  appointment 
tomorrow." 

I  thought,  "why  not  do  something  in  the  meantime?"  I  have 
always  found  that  I  feel  so  much  better  when  I  am  busy  trying  to  dis- 
seminate the  truth.  The  result  was  I  went  out  and  located  two  of  our 
missionaries,  just  humble  young  men.  They  were  about  nineteen,  pos- 
sibly twenty,  years  of  age.  I  found  them  and  asked  if  there 
were  some  place  we  could  spend  the  evening  and  do  a  little  mission- 
ary work,  and  they  said:  "Yes,  we  will  go  and  call  on  the  photog- 
rapher. He  and  his  family  are  members  of  the  Church,  and  they 
will  be  happpy  to  have  us  come." 

I  said:  "All  right."  I  went  into  the  office  of  the  hotel  and  said 
to  the  clerk:  "If  by  any  chance  anybody  calls  for  me  here,  I  am  going 
out  to  spend  the  evening,  but  I  would  like  to  have  them  call  me — I 
had  the  telephone  number  of  the  photographer — call  me  there." 

Call  from  Governor 

The  missionaries  were  delighted  and  we  went  down  and  were 
having  a  lovely  visit.  About  nine  o'clock  the  telephone  rang  and 


176  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday^  September  30  Secotid  Dag 

the  good  sister  answered  the  telephone  and  then  she  came  in,  and 
my,  her  eyes  were  nearly  popping  out  of  her  head.  She  said:  "Why, 
Brother  Smith,  the  Governor  of  New  York  wants  to  talk  to  you  on 
the  telephone." 

Of  course  I  was  wonderfully  surprised.  So  I  went  to  the 
telephone  and  when  I  took  it  up  I  said:  "Is  this  you,  Governor?" 
He  said:  "Yes." 

I  said:  "This  is  George  Albert  Smith  of  Salt  Lake  City.  I  am 
glad  to  hear  your  voice." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I  am  glad  to  hear  yours.  You  are  coming 
to  see  me,  aren't  you?" 

And  I  replied:  "Well,  I  stopped  here  for  that  purpose.  What 
time  shall  I  come?" 

He  said:  "Ten  o'clock." 

I  asked:  "Ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning?" 
He  said:  "No,  ten  o'clock  tonight." 

I  said:  "I  do  not  want  to  disturb  you  at  your  home.  I 
thought  I  was  going  to  go  into  your  office  and  shake  hands  with  you 
and  visit  a  few  minutes." 

He  said:  "If  you  wait  to  get  into  my  office  we  won't  have  any 
visit.  Come  on  down  tonight,  at  10  o'clock." 

Visit  at  Governor's  Mansion 

I  went  back  and  excused  myself  from  the  family  and  said  to  the 
young  missionaries:  "Will  one  of  you  go  and  help  me  find  the 
Mansion  House?"  I  did  not  have  any  idea  where  it  was.  Elder 
Peterson  went  with  me. 

When  we  got  down  to  the  house — it  was  during  World  War 
number  one  and  the  house  was  surrounded  by  militia — they  would 
not  let  us  in  the  gates  until  I  insisted  that  they  go  to  the  house  and 
find  out  that  I  had  an  appointment.  They  did  and  came  back 
and  escorted  us  to  the  house.  When  we  went  there  the  Governor 
received  us  very  graciously  and  said:  "Come  with  me  and  we 
will  go  up  to  my  den  and  we  will  have  a  good  time  together.  Nobody 
will  bother  us  up  there,  not  even  the  telephone." 

The  young  missionary  was  about  as  much  surprised  as  anybody 
could  be  to  be  received  in  the  home  of  the  Governor  like  that.  It  was 
just  like  we  were  members  of  the  family. 

When  we  got  upstaris,  the  Governor  seated  himself.  By  the 
way,  it  was  in  a  room  about  fourteen  feet  square  and  there  was  a 
table  on  one  side  and  all  around  the  room  were  cupboards  of 
books.  It  was  the  private  office  of  the  Governor,  and  when  he 
wanted  to  be  by  himself  that  is  where  he  went. 

Discussion  of  World  War  I 


He  sat  in  his  chair,  on  one  side  of  the  table,  and  Elder  Peterson 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  177 


and  I  sat  opposite  him.  We  had  hardly  gotten  seated  until  the 
Governor  said:  "Do  you  folks  know  that  there  is  a  war  on?" 

I  said,  "Of  course  we  know  there  is  a  war  on." 

He  said:  "You  are  way  out  there  in  Utah;  I  didn't  think 
you  would  know."  He  continued:  "You  are  out  of  danger;  you 
cannot  be  reached  out  there." 

I  said,  "Governor,  we  are  American  citizens  and  we  are  real 
Americans,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  we  have  furnished  our  quota 
of  men,  and  there  has  not  been  a  draftee — everyone  has  volun- 
teered." I  said:  "We  have  taken  our  full  quota  of  bonds.  We  have 
paid  our  full  share  of  Red  Cross  assessment.  We  have  done  every- 
thing we  have  been  asked  for.  Now,  why  don't  you  think  we  know 
there  is  a  war  on?" 

He  replied:  "You  have  done  better  than  we  have  back  here. 

"Well,"  he  repeated,  "how  is  this  war  coming  out?" 

I  answered:  "Don't  you  know?" 

He  said:  "No,  I  don't  know  who  is  going  to  win  it." 

"Where  is  your  Book  of  Mormon?"  I  asked. 

He  just  turned  around  in  his  swivel  chair  and  reached  in  the 
cupboard  behind  him,  took  down  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  laid  it  on  the  table  in  front  of  me.  Elder  Peterson  was  astonished 
to  see  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the  Governor's  library. 

I  turned  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  I  said:  "Governor,  I  am 
not  going  to  take  a  lot  of  time,  but  you  can  find  out  right  in  here 
how  this  war  is  coming  out."  I  said:  "We  are  going  to  win  the  war," 
and  then  I  read  to  him  what  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  with 
reference  to  the  people  of  this  nation,  in  which  the  Lord  told  us: 
"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gen- 
tiles. ...  I,  the  Lord,  the  king  of  heaven,  will  be  their  king," 
and  then  He  refers  to  the  fact  that  if  we  keep  His  commandments — 
that  is  what  I  want  to  bring  home  to  us  tonight — if  we  keep  His 
commandments  we  have  the  promise  from  Him  of  His  preservation 
and  His  watchcare. 

The  Governor  said:  "I  had  not  seen  that." 

"Well,"  I  said:  "you  are  not  doing  a  very  good  job  reading 
your  Book  of  Mormon." 

Subsequent  Meeting  with  Missionary 

He  thanked  me.  We  had  a  lovely  visit.  We  went  away  and 
I  did  not  see  that  missionary  for  a  long  time.  In  fact,  I  had  forgotten 
what  his  name  was,  until  about  two  years  ago  in  the  Hotel  Utah 
when  I  attended  a  meeting  of  oil  executives.  I  happened  to  be  there  as 
an  invited  guest,  and  I  was  made  acquainted  with  some  of  those  pres- 
ent, but  when  someone  attempted  to  introduce  me  to  one  young  man 
he  said:  "You  cannot  introduce  me  to  President  Smith.  I  know  him 
and  he  knows  me.  We  have  done  missionary  work  together." 

I  was  puzzled.  And  then  he  told  the  story  of  how  he  took 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


me  to  the  Governor's  home  and  then  of  course  I  remembered  him. 
He  is  now  the  President  of  one  of  the  great  oil  corporations  in 
California.  But  one  of  the  most  interesting  things  was,  after  I 
had  explained  to  the  Governor  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  contained 
the  word  of  the  Lord;  that  it  was  not  what  Joseph  Smith  had 
said,  but  what  the  Lord  had  said — when  I  laid  the  book  down,  the 
missionary  picked  it  up  as  quick  as  he  could  and  looked  to  see  how 
on  earth  it  got  into  the  Governor's  office.  On  the  front  page  was 
this  inscription:  "To  the  Honorable  Charles  Seaman  Whitman, 
Governor  of  New  York,  with  compliments  and  best  wishes  of 
George  Albert  Smith." 


Brethren,  I  have  mentioned  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  wonder 
how  many  of  our  families  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  There 
are  a  good  many  things  in  there  that  could  be  referred  to,  as  well  as 
this  commandment  or  revelation  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  of  what 
we  must  do.  We  are  distributing  the  literature  of  the  Church  where 
we  can  in  all  parts  of  the  civilized  world  and  we  are  not  doing  all  that 
we  will  have  to  do  because  we  have  not  reached  very  many  people. 

Our  representatives  in  the  various  barracks,  schools,  and 
in  the  various  state  legislatures  and  the  national  legislature,  members 
of  the  Church  everywhere,  all  have  an  opportunity,  and  most 
of  them  take  advantage  of  that  opportunity,  to  explain  to  the 
people  what  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  really  means. 

That  is  a  large  contract  that  we  have.  Each  of  us  has  the 
responsibility.  We  may  begin  by  training  our  boys  and  girls  at 
home  so  that  they  know  what  the  Gospel  is  and  then  when  op- 
portunity comes  they  will  be  able  to  share  it  with  others. 


If  I  had  time  I  could  tell  you  many  experiences  I  have  had, 
similar  to  the  one  just  related,  and  I  have  always  found  that  the  peo- 
ple who  gave  me  an  opportunity  to  sit  and  talk  with  them  followed 
me  up  after  that  and  went  out  of  their  way  to  be  friendly.  I  may  add 
that  the  Governor  of  New  York  used  to  send  me  an  invitation  to  his 
public  functions.  I  never  had  the  opportunity  to  go  but  once  and 
then  I  got  stuck  in  the  snow  and  could  not  get  there. 

People  are  friendly  with  us  if  we  will  give  them  a  chance.  It 
has  not  been  very  long  since  I  was  invited  to  offer  the  invocation 
at  the  opening  of  the  United  States  Senate.  This  invitation  was  ex- 
tended to  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  a  stranger  there  except  for  the  fact  we  had  members  and 
friends  there  who  knew  us.  That  could  not  have  happened  fifty  years 
ago,  but  there  is  no  end  to  the  opportunity  that  is  ours,  and  the 
thing  for  us  to  do,  no  matter  where  we  are,  is  to  seek  to  share  with 


Opportunities  to  Teach  Gospel 


Friendliness  Experienced 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  1 79 


others  the  joyous  teachings  that  have  come  to  us  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  all  of  the  scriptures,  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament, 
Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
We  have  a  marvelous  library,  brethren. 

Responsibility  to  Teach  Gospel 

I  am  not  going  to  ask  you  to  hold  up  you  hands  now,  but 
I  would  like  you  to  ask  yourselves,  how  many  of  you  have  read 
anything  to  your  families  out  of  these  books  from  time  to  time, 
called  them  together  to  teach  them  the  things  that  they  ought  to 
know.  I  am  afraid  many  of  us  would  have  to  say  we  have  been 
too  busy. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  on  the  earth,  and  think  of  the 
number  of  men  there  are  here  tonight  who  are  authorized  through 
the  priesthood  they  hold  to  speak  for  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
to  teach  his  Gospel. 

It  is  a  joyous  thing  to  me  to  know  that  the  way  is  opening  all 
the  time,  and  it  becomes  easier  and  I  say  to  you  brethren,  I  do  not 
suppose  there  is  hardly  a  week  passes,  not  a  month  anyhow,  but 
somebody  of  prominence  from  these  United  States  or  from  other 
parts  of  the  world,  comes  into  the  office  here,  the  President's  office, 
to  find  out  what  we  are  doing. 

Visit  of  Railroad  President 

Only  last  week  the  President  of  one  of  the  great  eastern  rail- 
roads came  in,  the  first  time  he  has  ever  been  here  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  he  came  in  and  we  sat  down  and  visited  for  quite  a  long  time. 
He  asked  questions  and  they  were  answered,  and  he  went  out, 
wanting  to  see  what  there  was  to  see.  He  was  leaving  that  night,  but 
he  said:  "I  never  dreamed  I  would  find  what  I  have  found  here." 

I  could  not  go  with  him  so  some  of  the  other  brethren,  Brother 
Haycock,  my  secretary,  and  one  of  the  other  brethren,  saw  to  it 
that  they  found  our  welfare  organization,  saw  the  monument  to 
the  pioneers  up  here  and  other  points  of  interest. 

There  is  always  something  to  interest  them  while  we  are 
teaching  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  So  let  us  not  lose  our 
opportunity,  let  us  not  lose  the  privilege  that  the  Lord  has  given 
to  us  to  teach  His  truth.  The  more  we  teach  it  the  more  we  will 
appreciate  it,  and  the  more  we  will  be  appreciated  by  those  we  asso- 
ciate with. 

Priesthood  Meeting  a  Delight 

Tonight,  this  great  priesthood  meeting  is  a  delight  to  me.  I  am 
grateful  to  be  able  to  be  here.  I  am  glad  I  can  remember  when  I  was 


180  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30 


Second  Day 


just  a  young  man,  and  I  was  a  missionary  in  the  Southern  States. 
Some  of  the  very  finest  people  in  the  South  would  receive  us  if  we 
would  go  to  their  homes  in  a  dignified  way.  They  were  not  always 
interested  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  but  they  would  treat  us 
kindly,  in  most  instances,  but  of  course  in  some  cases  they  were  not 
so  kind. 

I  am  thinking  of  our  opportunity.  What  are  we  going  to  do? 
Here  we  are,  the  representatives  of  the  Church,  a  very  great  portion 
of  the  representatives  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  tonight,  and  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
warned  us  that  difficulties  are  coming.  If  I  were  to  read  more 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  I  could  call  attention  to  many  things 
there  that  put  us  on  notice  that  we  have  something  more  to  do 
than  to  just  go  on  and  take  it  easy. 

Experiences  of  Noah  and  Abraham 

Remember  that  in  the  days  of  Noah,  he  preached  the  Gospel 
for  approximately  a  hundred  years  and  the  people  would  not 
repent,  but  by  and  by,  the  warning  that  had  been  given  to  them 
was  realized  and  they  were  all  wiped  out  except  the  few  that  were 
in  the  ark. 

You  remember  the  experience  of  Abraham  when  he  was  visited 
by  a  holy  being  on  the  way  to  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  to  destroy 
the  people,  and  he  began  to  plead  for  them.  He  knew  there  were 
some  good  people  there.  He  had  relatives  there.  And  so  finally  he 
asked:  "Are  you  going  to  destroy  the  good  people?" 

"No,  if  there  are  good  people  there,  enough  of  them,  they  can 
save  the  whole  situation." 

And  then  Abraham  began:  "Well,  if  there  are  fifty,  will  you  save 
the  cities?" 

"Yes,  if  there  are  fifty." 

"If  there  are  forty?" 

"Yes,  if  there  are  forty." 

And  Abraham  kept  on  going  until  he  got  down  as  far  as  he 
thought  he  could  go,  I  guess,  and  was  told,  that  if  ten  righteous 
people  could  be  found  there  in  those  two  great  cities  that  the  cities 
would  be  spared.  But  he  could  not  find  them. 

Condition  of  America 

Now  I  wonder  what  about  America.  What  proportion  of  the 
population  of  the  land  we  live  in  is  a  righteous  portion.  It  is  right- 
eousness that  will  preserve  us. 

The  Lord's  promise  to  be  our  king  and  our  law-giver  is  on 
the  condition  of  righteousness,  and  my,  what  a  wonderful  oppor- 
tunity He  gives  to  us  and  how  happy  we  ought  to  be  to  take  advan- 
tage of  it  and  bless  our  fellows  by  carrying  the  message  to  them. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  1 81 


Disbelief  of  World 

The  people  of  the  world  may  not  believe  it.  They  did  not  believe 
it  when  the  Savior  came  to  John  at  the  waters  of  Jordan.  They  did 
not  believe  He  was  the  Savior  of  the  world.  When  He  came  unto 
John  and  asked  for  baptism,  John  said:  "I  have  need  to  be  baptized 
of  Thee  and  comest  Thou  to  me?" 

Jesus  replied:  "Suffer  it  to  be  so  now  for  thus  it  becometh  us  to 
fulfill  all  righteousness."   "And  he  suffered  him." 

Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Son  of  Mary,  went  down  into  the 
water,  and  when  He  came  up  out  of  the  water,  the  Holy  Ghost 
descended  upon  Him  in  the  form  of  a  dove.  If  John  had  had  any 
doubt  about  what  he  had  accomplished  surely  that  would  have 
brought  him  to  a  realization,  and  then  a  voice  from  heaven  said: 
"This  is  my  Beloved  Son  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased." 

John  did  not  find  fault  with  Jesus  for  letting  him  baptize  Him. 
John  was  a  very  humble  man.  John  then  went  his  way  and  tried 
to  save  his  own  people,  his  own  race.  And  they  finally  took  his  life 
and  that  has  been  the  history  of  the  world  all  the  way  down. 
There  have  been  war  and  destruction  and  now  we  are  faced, 
not  with  any  ordinary  situation,  but  we  are  faced  with  a  war  by 
Anti-Christ  against  the  people  who  believe  in  the  divine  mission  of 
the  Savior. 

Set  Homes  in  Order 

What  are  we  going  to  do?  We  have  our  responsibility,  and 
I  am  sure  we  will  not  disappoint  those  who  have  depended  upon 
us  to  do  our  part.  But  the  most  important  thing  that  we  can  do  is 
set  our  own  homes  in  order,  to  see  if  there  is  carelessness  or  indiffer- 
ence in  them,  teach  our  families,  and  unite  them  and  make  them 
happy  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
because  only  on  the  condition  of  righteousness  can  even  this 
great  Church  continue  and  endure  to  do  the  work  that  it  has  to  do. 

Brethren,  you  have  come  from  many  parts  of  the  world,  mostly, 
of  course,  from  the  Western  Hemisphere,  but  you  will  be  returning 
to  your  homes.  Do  not  fail  to  appreciate  that  the  Lord  has  given  you 
a  wonderful  blessing,  but  it  will  only  be  a  blessing  to  you  on  condi- 
tion that  you  observe  His  laws  and  keep  His  commandments. 

Waiting  Upon  the  Lord 

We  are  all  brethren  here  tonight,  meeting  together  in  the  Lord's 
House,  waiting  upon  Him,  and  I  am  sure  we  will  have  a  happy  time 
tomorrow  in  our  meetings. 

I  trust  everbody  has  a  place  to  stay  tonight.  I  hope  that  the 
adjustment  has  been  made  before  this.  We  sometimes  have  had 
our  people  come  from  the  outlying  districts  thinking  they  could  go 


182  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  September  30  Second  Dag 

into  a  hotel  at  any  time,  only  to  find  they  could  not  get  a  place 
to  stay.  Now,  if  there  are  any  of  you  people  here  tonight  who 
live  away,  who  haven't  any  place  to  stay,  you  see  if  you  are 
sitting  by  a  real  Latter-day  Saint  or  a  make-believe,  and  tell  your 
troubles  to  your  neighbor,  and  if  he  cannot  take  you  to  his  home  he 
can  find  a  place  where  you  can  stay,  and  you  will  be  happy. 

Gratitude  for  Companionship 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  all.  I  am  so  grateful  for 
the  companionship  of  such  men  as  are  sitting  here  tonight,  grate- 
ful to  be  able  to  shake  your  hands  and  meet  you  wherever  I 
find  you,  grateful  to  welcome  another  member  into  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve.  The  Church  continues  to  grow,  and  while  Brother  George 
F.  Richards  has  filled  a  great  mission,  performed  a  great  part,  and 
the  others  that  we  have  mentioned  here,  Brother  Frank  Evans  and 
others,  what  they  have  done  they  will  be  blessed  for,  but  if  we 
want  to  be  among  those  whose  names  are  recorded  in  the  Lamb's 
Book  of  Life  as  being  entitled  to  a  place  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom 
when  this  earth  becomes  that  kingdom,  we  have  got  to  earn  that 
ourselves,  individually.  The  Lord  has  given  us  the  priesthood, 
given  us  the  opportunity,  given  us  all  these  wonderful  revelations 
contained  in  the  scriptures,  and  I  am  sure  we  are  not  going  to  waste 
our  privileges  and  fail  to  do  our  part. 

Blessings  Asked 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  all,  that  we  will  be  worthy  to 
bear  the  priesthood  that  He  has  offered  to  us  and  conferred  upon 
us,  that  wherever  we  go  people  will  be  able  to  say,  "That  man  is  a 
servant  of  the  Lord." 

When  you  go  to  our  homes  tonight,  please  be  careful.  It  is  dark. 
The  automobiles  are  running  in  every  direction,  pretty  near,  except 
straight  up,  and  we  will  have  to  be  careful  and  not  be  hit.  Be  as 
careful  as  you  can,  and  then  when  the  conference  is  finished  and 
you  go  to  your  homes,  be  equally  careful,  because  somebody  is  losing 
his  life  as  a  result  of  unnecessary  accidents  practically  every  hour  of 
the  day. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  that  we  will  be  real  brothers, 
and  that  if  we  have  families  that  we  will  be  real  fathers  and  husbands 
in  our  homes,  not  just  make-believes.  Do  not  fail  to  have  your 
family  prayers,  brethren,  it  brings  a  blessing  that  not  anything 
else  does. 

That  we  may  all  so  conduct  ourselves  that  when  the  Lamb's 
Book  of  Life  is  opened  disclosing  those  who  are  entitled  to  a  place 
here  upon  this  earth  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom,  to  live  forever  in  the 
companionship  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  and  that  all  our  names 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


183 


will  be  found  recorded  there  and  those  we  love,  not  one  missing, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus  sang  "The  Long  Day 
Closes,"  after  which  President  A.  Hale  Holgate  of  the  Duchesne 
Stake  offered  the  benediction. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
October  1,  from  8:30  to  9:00  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  this  service.  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is  presented  by  CBS  so 
that  men  of  different  faiths  may  bring  their  messages  to  a  nationwide 
congregation  of  worshipers.  Today's  service  comes  to  you  from  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL 
in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  speaker  will  be  Dr.  John  A.  Widsoe,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  title  of  Elder  Widtsoe's  talk  is: 
Be  of  Good  Courage.  Music  is  provided  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  with  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ. 

The  service  opens  with  a  sacred  song  by  Bach:  "My  Faith  Is 
Still  Secure  and  Still  I  Love  my  God." 


The  Choir  sang:  "My  Faith  Is  Still  Secure" — Bach. 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on  this  Church  of  the  Air  service, 
Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  scientist,  educator,  and  author,  and  a  member 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Dr.  Widtsoe  has  titled  his  talk:  Be  of  Good 
Courage. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Dear  Radio  Friends:  Our  day  is  one  of  much  confusion,  un- 
certainty and  fear.  This  unhappy  condition  is  world-wide.  Too  many 
mature  people  look  with  sincere  longing  upon  the  past;  youth  on  the 
threshold  of  life's  activity  are  inclined  to  view  the  future  with 
distrust.  There  is  a  feeling  of  helplessness  in  the  air.  The  enthusiasms 
of  life  are  vanishing. 

This  is  neither  natural  nor  normal.  It  darkens  the  day  and 


184  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  J  Third  Day 

clouds  our  every  task.  It  develops  slavery  to  unknown,  dreaded 
forces.  It  is  destructive  of  human  joy. 

This  should  not  be  so.  The  new  world,  our  world,  made  one  by 
audible,  visual  and  physical  communication,  and  by  the  free  inter- 
change of  personal  opinion,  should  yield  days  of  such  satisfactions 
as  have  not  been  known  before. 

There  is  evil  in  the  world,  ever  designing  to  destroy  humanity. 
That  goes  without  saying.  Evil  offered  itself  to  the  first  man;  it  will 
pound,  however  uselessly,  on  the  ears  of  the  last.  Evil  forces,  in 
whatever  disguise,  must  be  fought,  desperately  if  needs  be,  and 
brought  to  their  knees;  else  life's  sweetness  will  disappear.  This 
battle  between  right  and  wrong,  between  good  and  bad,  has  been 
waged,  and  often  has  raged,  through  the  generations  of  time,  and 
will  continue  to  the  end. 

Normal  men,  made  in  the  image  of  God,  have  always  accepted 
cheerfully  the  challenge  of  evil  as  a  part  of  life.  The  battle  really  has 
given  zest  to  existence.  Moreover,  and  this  gives  courage  to  weak 
man,  history  records  that  in  every  struggle  evil  has  gradually  been 
defeated  and  at  length  has  been  beaten  down. 

Incarnate  evil,  despite  its  assiduous  endeavors,  has  always  lost 
ground.  Finally  victory  has  been  on  the  side  of  right. 

Thereby  has  come  man's  marvelous  conquest  over  surrounding 
forces,  and  the  steady  improvement  in  the  last  few  hundred  years 
of  the  conditions  of  the  human  race.  Always,  if  on  the  side  of  right- 
eousness, man  has  managed  to  banish  the  gilded  tyranny  of  evil. 

Yet,  despite  the  lessons  of  the  past,  fear,  unnecessary  fear,  lurks 
in  many  human  breasts.  What  of  tomorrow?  is  shouted  by  the 
forces  of  evil.  In  the  consequent  din  is  forgotten  the  glorious  pro- 
mise that  "Sufficient  unto  the  day  is  the  evil  thereof."  (Matt.  6:34) 
Forgotten  also  is  the  ancient  truth  that  fear  is  the  devil's  first  and 
chief  weapon.  Make  a  man  or  a  nation  afraid,  and  his  strength, 
like  that  of  Samson  shorn  of  his  locks,  is  gone.  He  is  no  longer 
useful  in  the  work  of  the  world.  He  becomes  a  tool  of  the  unholy 
forces  which  seek  to  destroy  mankind. 

Gideon,  mighty  man  of  ancient  Israel,  was  called  to  rescue  his 
people  from  a  seven-year  oppression  by  the  Midianites  and  associat- 
ed people.  He  raised  therefore  an  army  of  thirty-two  thousand  men  to 
fight  the  enemy.  But  in  those  days,  as  in  ours,  battles  were  won  not 
by  numbers  but  by  men  of  quality.  So  he  was  commanded  to  proclaim : 

"Whosoever  is  fearful  and  afraid  let  him  return.  And  there 
returned  of  the  people  twenty  and  two  thousand  .  .  ." — (Judges  7:3) 

It  was  a  high  percentage.  It  is  probably  as  high  in  the  world 
today.  Nevertheless  Gideon's  army  was  stronger  because  the  faith- 
ful ones  were  left.  Fear  never  fails  to  lead  a  man  or  a  group  of  people 
to  weakness  and  to  ultimate  failure. 

The  fears  of  man  are  legion.  They  float  to  the  surface  from 
submerged  corners  in  our  consciousness.  They  are  often  the  pro- 
ducts of  our  imagination. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


185 


Really  what  have  we  to  fear?  Physical  destruction  perhaps,  first. 
We  are  naturally  afraid  of  pain.  We  look  with  dread,  for  example, 
upon  the  A-bomb,  and  the  theoretical  H-bomb,  and  other  devices  of 
somewhat  lesser  horror,  produced  by  the  misuse  of  powers  placed  in 
the  hands  of  man.  At  the  worst,  their  effects  will  be  local,  and  mini- 
mized as  the  commonsense  of  the  nations  develops. 

The  frequent,  recent  fear  arises  that  a  day  may  come  when  the 
whole  world  will  be  annihilated  by  an  atomic  chain  reaction.  That 
is  an  idle  fear.  It  is  not  yet  within  the  power  of  man  and  may  never 
be.  The  earth  is  old;  the  stars  in  the  sky  made  of  earth-like  elements 
are  old.  Earth  and  stars  have  long  hung  in  space.  The  universe  is 
not  going  to  explode  into  atomic  rays — not  in  our  day — of  that  we 
may  be  certain.  That  fear  is  groundless  and  with  the  accompanying 
dread  should  be  cast  out. 

Civilized  man  needs  food  and  clothing  and  shelter.  In  the 
turmoil  of  the  new  day,  he  fears  that  he  may  be  deprived  of  these  ne- 
cessities. He  forgets  that  the  earth  has  not  changed,  except  in  spots. 
As  the  seasons  come  and  go,  the  needs  of  man  will  be  supplied  by 
mother  earth  as  in  the  past,  if  man  does  his  part.  It  is  easy  to  awaken 
a  fear;  as  easy  to  banish  it  if  reasonable  thinking  is  used. 

Then  there  is  the  fear  of  other  men — people  with  the  wrong  con- 
ception of  life,  to  whom  a  neighbor  is  but  a  tool  with  which  to  pro- 
tect themselves,  often  to  satisfy  their  lusts.  To  them  life  has  no 
meaning  beyond  the  flesh  of  the  day.  They  do  not  know  the  spiritual 
world,  which  is  the  greater  and  more  powerful  world.  Such  travelers 
in  the  muck  of  life  promise  much  to  gain  their  ends,  but  keep  no 
promise.  Such  men  are  more  dangerous  than  material  weapons, 
however  horrible. 

Usually  evil  philosophies  use  evil  material  tools.  The  great 
danger  in  these  philosophies  is,  however,  that  they  simulate  truth. 
They  are  deceiving;  and  by  their  deceit  often  secure  as  adherents 
otherwise  honest  people.  We  should  for  our  protection  uncover 
these  masked  devils. 

Here  also,  fear  is  futile.  Righteous  men  if  united  are  masters  of 
their  generation  and  can  and  should  cast  out  all  such  fears,  and 
should  sternly  set  about  to  root  out  such  weeds  of  existence.  False 
teachings  fall  before  truth. 

It  would  be  better  for  man's  happiness  to  substitute  for  such 
fears  a  proper  control  of  the  use  of  his  powers,  whether  of  his 
natural  endowment,  or  those  that  have  been  discovered  by  the 
patient  searchers  for  truth. 

For  example,  there  should  be  less  glibness  about  the  use  of  atomic 
energy  in  warfare,  and  more  about  its  possible  use  in  peaceful  arts. 
More  should  be  said  about  the  futility  of  war  with  its  devilish  de- 
struction of  human  life  and  property.  More  should  be  said  about  the 
nobility  of  man,  and  his  possible  Godlike  approach  when  he  uses 
his  time,  talents  and  power  to  supply  natural  human  needs.  When- 
ever that  is  done,  much  fear  will  disappear.  More  should  be  said 


186  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  1  Third  Dag 

about  the  good  earth  and  its  willingness  to  yield  bountifully  to 
man's  toil. 

An  evil  philosophy  of  life  can  best  be  stifled  when  it  is  given 
no  corner  in  the  discussions  of  men.  Clubs  would  do  better  to  dis- 
cuss the  principles  of  our  own  free  government  than  the  remote 
doctrine  of  an  ancient  poet.  Whether  fear  shall  engulf  us  or  not  is  a 
matter  in  our  own  hands. 

Men  who  lay  aside  fear  become  the  masters  of  the  day. 

It  is  a  pity  that  many  who  allow  themselves  to  fear  seek  refuge  in 
the  temporary  forgetfulness  that  follows  the  satisfaction  of  un- 
natural appetites.  Instead  of  a  wise  and  intelligent  approach  to  the 
apparently  difficult  problems  of  life,  multitudes  have  turned  to 
nerve-whipping  drugs,  which  often  have  become  daily  companions, 
or  to  the  shame  of  immorality,  or  to  the  mania  of  chance.  To  such 
persons,  fear  may  temporarily  be  lost  in  the  brutality  or  sinful  indul- 
gences, but  it  remains  under  cover  to  poison  the  full  joy  of  life. 
There  is  no  happy  future  for  mankind,  no  removal  of  fear,  while  in 
the  society  of  sin. 

More  terribly  fear-begetting  is  the  doctrine  that  the  world  in 
which  we  live  is  purposeless. 

Freedom  from  fear  comes  only  when  the  earth  and  all  upon  it  are 
conceived  to  be  expressions  of  a  mighty  divine  purpose.  The  unhappy 
ones  of  this  age,  which  is  full  of  possible  joy,  usually  can  see  no  pur- 
pose in  life.  That  is  a  great  calamity,  perhaps  the  greatest  in  human 
lives.  The  Lord  placed  his  children  on  earth  in  his  love  for  them  and 
for  their  good.  They  are  here  in  harmony  with  this  mighty  divine 
purpose. 

Our  purposeful  world  is  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord.  It 
cannot  be  conceived  that  the  Master  would  place  his  children  on 
earth  and  then  forget  them!  That  is  not  the  method  of  Divinity. 
Chance  does  not  rule  in  the  heavens  or  on  earth.  Men  who  harbor 
fear  may  rest  assured  that  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord,  righteous- 
ness will  triumph  on  earth.  The  Lord's  purposes  will  prevail.  That 
knowledge  drives  out  fear.  The  highest  attainable  joy  of  man,  of 
any  man,  is  the  certainty  that  he  lives  in  a  purposeful  world  made 
for  his  good.  Fear  cannot  dwell  with  such  a  faith. 

Those  who  do  not  believe  in  a  purposeful  world  are  to  be 
pitied.  They  cast  God  out  of  their  lives.  They  are  atheists,  creatures 
without  home  or  anchorage.  Thrown  back  upon  themselves,  upon  their 
own  weak  powers,  with  no  help  but  that  of  men,  such  persons  are 
unspeakably  lonely.  Fears  overtake  them,  and  force  them  to  seek 
unnatural  excitements.  The  convictions  of  such  men  rest  upon  in- 
secure foundations.  They  cannot  be  safely  followed. 

The  confusion  and  contention,  the  uncertainty  in  the  world, 
come  from  the  failure  to  take  God  into  partnership  in  the  acts  of  our 
daily  lives.  We  must  battle  for  the  right,  if  needs  be.  Give  evil  no 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


187 


quarter,  To  put  trust  in  God,  when  we  have  done  our  best,  is  the 
final  refuge  of  mortal  man.  Men  must  give  heed  to  God's  voice,  as 
heard  through  the  centuries.  If  that  is  done,  all  is  well;  but  when  the 
Lord  is  forgotten,  disaster  overflows  the  world. 

All  who  have  fear  in  their  hearts  should  turn  willingly  to  him 
who  created  the  earth  and  all  upon  it.  The  wise  ones  of  old  have 
warned  us.  When  ancient  Israel  was  depressed,  as  many  are  today, 
Moses  spoke  to  them: 

Be  strong  and  of  good  courage,  fear  not,  nor  be  afraid  of  them: 
for  the  Lord  thy  God,  He  it  is  that  doth  go  with  thee;  He  will  not  fail 
thee,  nor  forsake  thee. —  (Deuteronomy  31:6.) 

And  David,  king  of  Israel,  completed  the  thought: 

Wait  on  the  Lord:  be  of  good  courage,  and  He  shall  strengthen  thine 
heart:  wait,  I  say,  on  the  Lord. —  (Psalms  27:14). 

Though  all  this  is  true,  all  who  seek  to  drive  away  fear,  must 
be  active  in  the  battle.  Evil,  the  cause  of  fear,  will  turn  to  good  only 
as  righteousness  prevails.  The  Lord  will  solve  all  earthly  problems 
only  as  man  makes  himself  worthy  of  divine  help.  Men  must  be 
"anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,"  the  cause  of  the  Lord. 

We  must  be  vocal  in  our  opposition  to  evil;  we  must  be  eager 
to  cast  evil  out  from  among  us.  In  the  home  circle,  in  our  churches, 
in  our  places  of  toil,  wherever  we  walk  and  talk,  as  members  of 
society  and  as  citizens  of  our  land,  we  must  stand  as  enemies  of 
evil.  There  must  be  no  yielding  to  the  whisperings  from  the  dun- 
geons of  existence.  Then  the  Lord  will  add  his  power  and  his  bless- 
ings; fear  will  flee. 

We  need  everywhere  throughout  our  sunlit  land  men  who  are 
strong  enough  for  righteousness  to  face  the  enemy. 

When  Gideon  of  old  was  left  with  only  ten  thousand  unafraid 
men,  other  tests  were  given  this  remainder  of  his  large  army.  Gid- 
eon could  take  no  chances.  The  cause,  the  freedom  of  his  people, 
was  too  great.  So  he  watched  his  men. 

When  the  army,  marching  in  the  heat  of  the  day,  crossed  a 
creek,  some  loitered,  took  their  time,  lay  down  to  drink;  others,  how- 
ever, only  three  hundred  of  the  ten  thousand,  eager  to  meet  the 
enemy  could  not  wait;  they  merely  cupped  their  hands  and  drank  as 
they  marched  hurriedly  along.  They  caused  no  delay.  These  three 
hundred  became  Gideon's  army;  the  others  were  sent  home.  With 
these  three  hundred  Gideon  won  glorious  victories. 

With  such  men,  in  any  day,  every  fear  vanishes. 

The  feeling  of  depression  that  bows  down  many  of  our  people 
today  should  be  replaced  by  a  song  of  courageous  gladness.  The  Lord 
is  at  the  helm.  Therefore,  we  should  be  full  of  courage.  Our  task  is  to 
keep  the  law  of  the  Lord,  to  reject  every  evil  offering,  and  to  assist 
eagerly  in  the  solution  of  present-day  problems.  Then  we  can  safely 


188  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  I  Third  Day 

trust  the  future.  Then  we  shall  no  longer  be  afraid.  Those  who  then 
may  suffer  will  be  those  who  will  not  do  these  things. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Choir  then  sang:  "Awake  Ye  Saints" — Stephens 
Organ  interlude. 

Music:  Theme — Organ  and  humming  choir:  "Sweet  Is  the 
Work." 

Announcer:  Time  and  facilities  for  the  Church  of  the  Air  are 
provided  without  charge  by  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  and  in  the  same  spirit  the  participants  give  their  services. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  was  directed  b> 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the 
Sunday  sessions  and  presented  musical  numbers  at  those  meetings. 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Male  Chorus,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
conductor,  furnished  the  choral  numbers  for  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting,  Saturday  evening,  September  30. 

The  Choir  singing  for  the  Friday  morning  and  afternoon  ses- 
sions, September  29,  was  by  the  Combined  Chorus  of  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cache  and  Salt  Lake  City  Stakes, 
with  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  and  with  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  singing  for  the  Saturday  morning  and  afternoon  ses- 
sions, September  30,  was  by  the  Deseret  Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ladd 
R.  Cropper,  director,  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  Sun- 
day morning,  9:00  to  9:30  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  of  the 
Air  broadcast  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L. 
Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank 
W.  Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 

PAGE 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph — Report   79 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   2 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained     83 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  142 

Support  of  Family  142,  Gratitude  for  Brethren  143,  Spirit  of  Brother- 
hood 143,  Spiritual  Uplift  Experienced  144,  Impelling  Force  of  Gospel 
145,  Critical  Period  145,  Essentials  for  Security  146,  Real  Dedication 
Required  146,  Need  for  Righteousness  147,  Commandments  to  Observe 
147,  Good  Citizenship  148,  Blessing  148 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.   69 

Washington's  Farewell  Message  70,  The  Christian  Church  70,  In- 
fluence Weakened  71,  Revival  of  Faith  Needed  71,  Unified  Action 
Required  72,  Religious  Isolationism  72,  A  Great  Brotherhood  73,  Effect 
on  Family  Life  73,  Religion  a  Stabilizer  74,  Solid  Conviction  Required 

Changes  in  Church  Officers  and  Organizations   79 

Child,  Elder  Francis  A   42 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  105 

Church  of  the  Air  183 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  28,  50,  78,  79,  83,  91,  97,  99,  103 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   99 

Sermon  on  Mount  of  Olives  99,  Heresies  Now  Present  100,  Arianism 
100,  Paganistic  Immorality  101,  Evidence  about  the  Savior  101,  Lack 
of  Understanding  102,  Visions  Given  102,  Testimony  103 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   168 

The  Priesthood  168,  Pre-existent  Calling  169,  Brigham  Young  Quoted 
169,  Analogy  Made  170,  Ordination  in  Grand  Council  170,  Each  Part 
Has  Own  Function  171,  Perfect  System  of  Government  171,  Individual 
Responsibility  171,  Urges  Unity  172 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   23 

Never  Lose  a  Friend  23,  Blessings  of  Gathering  23,  Love  for  Native 
Races  24,  Prophecies  Fulfilled  25,  God's  Kingdom  Established  25, 
Loyalty  to  Priesthood  26,  Thanksgiving  for  Natives  26 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  ....138 

Figures  Quoted  138,  Men  of  Courage  and  Faith  139,  Uncertainties 
Today  139,  Year  of  Anniversaries  140,  Acceptance  of  Truth  140, 
Observations  at  Mt.  Palomar  140,  Cling  to  Eternal  Verities  141,  Pur- 
sue Purposes  of  Life  141,  Prayer  for  Youth  142 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   28 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church  Present   2 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   83 


190 


INDEX 


General  Priesthood  Meeting  161 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R.   58 

Faith  Exhibited  58,  Law  of  Tithing  59,  Law  Given  to  Nephites  59, 
Tithing  Revealed  Anew  60,  Experience  at  Interview  60,  Covenant  to 
Obey  61,  Teachings  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  61,  Blessings  to  Follow  62 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   86 

Tribute  to  President  Richards  86,  Conferences  Strengthen  Spiritually 
87,  Missionary  Letter  87,  Lord  Inspires  Leaders  88,  Mission  of  Prophet 
Joseph  88,  Rededication  of  Lives  89,  Our  Servicemen  89,  Letters  of 
Encouragement  90,  The  Lord's  Prayer  in  Korea  90 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   52 

Visit  to  Canadian  Mission  52,  Need  for  Faith  53,  Results  of  Coopera- 
tion 54,  Improvements  Noted  54,  Strive  for  Perfection  55 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.   63 

Prayers  for  Lamanites  63,  Plan  Devised  by  the  Lord  64,  Purposes  to  be 
Fulfilled  64,  Work  Commenced  65,  Lamanite  Membership  66,  Early 
Brethren  Quoted  67,  History  of  Lamanite  Work  68,  Our  Responsi- 
bility 69 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   31 

Much  Given  and  Expected  32,  Baptism  of  Karl  G.  Maeser  32,  Glory 
of  the  Gospel  32,  Spirit  of  American  Youth  33,  Service  of  Missionaries 
33,  Accept  Opportunities  34 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  129 

Influence  of  President  Richards  129,  False  Prophets  to  Deceive  129, 
Concern  of  Missionary  129,  Criticism  of  Authorities  130,  Divine  Ap- 
pointment of  Leaders  130,  Personal  Testimony  131 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F  120 

Cause  of  Troublous  Conditions  120,  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  120, 
Religion  a  Way  of  Life  121,  Repentance  Needed  121,  Cause  of 
Troubles  122,  Wage  and  Price  Increases  123,  Inflation  Hurts  Millions 
123,  Taft-Hartley  Law  124,  Labor  Union  Bosses  124,  Price  Increases 
Unwarranted  125,  Live  the  Golden  Rule  125,  Testimony  125 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.   92 

Army  of  Righteousness  92,  What  is  Important  92,  Religion,  Morality 
Necessary  93,  Organizations  Spring  Up  94,  Instil  Faith,  Devotion  95, 
Righteousness  in  Office  95,  Exercise  Franchise  Intelligently  96 

Muir,  Elder  Leo  J   76 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   13 

A  Covenant  People  13,  Alma's  Explanation  14,  The  Lord's  Part  14, 
Renewing  of  Covenant  14,  Fulness  of  Blessings  15,  Baptism  a  Gate  16, 
Covenants  to  be  Kept  16,  Blessings  to  Follow  17 

McKay,  President  David  0  51,  77,  78,  83 

McKay,  President  David  0  108 

Text  108,  Path  to  Knowledge  108,  Quests  Determine  Successes  108, 
The  All-Important  Quest  109,  How  We  May  Know  God  109,  His 
Will  109,  Joy  Follows  Obedience  110,  Life's  Great  Exemplar  111, 
Supreme  in  Character  111,  Priesthood  Means  Service  112,  "Do  His 
Will"  112 


INDEX 


191 


McKay,  President  David  O.  162 

Evidences  of  Progress  162,  Need  of  Reverence  162,  Overcome  Evil 
Tendencies  163,  A  Divine  Attribute  163,  Reverence  Defined  163,  Order 
in  Classrooms  164,  Self-Control  Exemplified  164,  To  Begin  in  Child- 
hood 165,  Rights  of  Others  165,  Extract  from  Letter  166,  Irreverence 
in  Services  167,  Improvement  Noted  167,  Elders'  Example  Followed 
167,  Reverence  Enjoined  168 


Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.   38 

President  George  F.  Richards  38,  Story  of  a  Friend  38 

Presentation  of  Authorities   83 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  161 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand  149 

Appreciation  of  Father  149,  Faith  Commended  150,  Sacrifices  of 
Saints  150,  Spirit  of  Darkness  151,  Lord's  Spirit  Withdrawn  152, 
Meaning  of  Religion  152,  Added  Upon  153,  The  Rich  Man  and  La- 
zarus 153 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.  126 

Teachings  Not  New  126,  Build-Up  of  Spirits  126,  Welfare  Work  127, 
1951  Welfare  Budget  127,  Not  a  Dole  128,  Principle  of  the  Fast  128 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   51 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   78 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   55 

Pray  to  Father  56,  Be  in  Tune  56,  Sincerity  of  Children  57,  Family 
Prayer  57 

Smith,  Elder  E.  Wesley   47 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  

 3,  27,  107,  119,  132,  134,  138,  149,  160,  161 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   4 


Welcome  in  Apia  4,  Brethren  Who  Have  Gone  5,  Joy  of  Conference 
Meetings  5,  Observance  of  Commandments  5,  Faith  Grows  with  Right- 
eousness 6,  Political  Campaign  6,  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
7,  Observance  of  Ten  Commandments  7,  Seek  the  Lord  8,  Hawaiian 
Centennial  8,  Gospel  for  All  People  8,  Spirit  of  Prayer  and  Grati- 
tude 9 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  154 

Comforts  and  Blessings  155,  Divine  Mission  of  Jesus  Christ  155,  The 
Resurrection  156,  Visit  to  Other  Sheep  157,  Experiences  of  Joseph 
Smith  157,  Additional  Light  158,  Inspiration  of  Almighty  158,  Obe- 
dience Brings  Blessings  159,  Plans  and  Accomplishments  159 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  172 

Growth  of  Church  173,  Power  of  the  Priesthood  173,  The  Voice  of 
Warning  174,  Gospel  to  be  Preached  174,  Visit  to  Albany  175,  Call 
from  Governor  175,  Visit  at  Governor's  Mansion  176,  Discussion  of 
World  War  I  176,  Subsequent  Meeting  with  Missionary  177,  Oppor- 
tunities to  Teach  Gospel  178,  Friendliness  Experienced  178,  Responsi- 
bility to  Teach  Gospel  179,  Visit  of  Railroad  President  179,  Priesthood 
Meeting  a  Delight  180,  Experiences  of  Noah  and  Abraham  180, 
Condition  of  America  180,  Disbelief  of  World  181,  Set  Homes  in 


192  INDEX 


Order  181,  Waiting  Upon  the  Lord  181,  Gratitude  for  Companion- 
ship 182,  Blessings  Asked  182 

Smith,  Elder  Glenn  G   45 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    9 

Lamb's  Book  of  Life  10,  World  Rejects  Blessings  10,  Advantages  En- 
joyed 11,  The  Vision  11,  Book  of  Mormon  12,  Covenant  at  Baptism 
12,  Power  to  Reach  Members  12 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  135 

Expansion  of  Church  135,  World  Attitude  Changing  135,  Articles 
of  Faith  136,  Reaction  to  Tracts  136,  Explanation  of  Joseph  Smith  137 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  Leon   97 

Love  for  Brethren  97,  Call  to  the  Council  97,  Appreciation  of  Wife 
98,  Blessing  Fulfilled  98 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   83 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  105 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   104 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  133 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   34 

Year  of  Anniversaries  34,  Scandinavian  Celebration  35,  Gospel 
Changes  Men  35,  Greetings  from  European  Saints  36,  Meeting  in 
Oslo  36,  Worldwide  Message  37,  We  Have  the  Truth  37 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  (Church  of  the  Air)  183 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   17 

Paul's  Admonition  18,  Faith  of  Young  People  18,  Faith  of  Serviceman 
19,  Day  of  Pentecost  19,  Spirit  of  Testimony  20,  Aaronic  Priesthood 
Program  20,  Auxiliary  Organizations  21,  Boy  Scout  Program  21, 
Missionaries  22,  Support  of  Youth  22 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   29 

Mormon  Church  a  Challenge  29,  President  Clark's  Book  30,  Wit- 
nesses of  the  Truth  30,  Constant  Service  Required  31. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  113 

Testimonies  of  Church  Members  113,  A  Model  City  113,  Heritage  of 
American  Indian  114,  High  Regard  for  Youth  114,  Mormon  Taber- 
nacle 115,  World-Famed  Organ  115,  Statue  of  Moroni  116,  Accom- 
plishments of  Pioneers  116,  Music  and  Drama  117,  Love  for  Beauty 
and  Truth  118,  Appreciation  of  Ideals  118. 


IS  NURTURED  BY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 


FAITH  PROMOTING  STORIES  $1.50 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES   $1.75 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS  $2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO,  THE  BEAUTIFUL  $3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH  OTHERS  $2.50 

By  President  George  Albert  Smith 

ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY  AND  ETERNAL  LIFE  $3.50 

By  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED  $2.75 

By  Helen  Cortex  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM  $2.25 

By  James  L.  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  $2.00 

By  Thomas  C.  Romney 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM  $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE  $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richards 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION  $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Callis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION  $1.75 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

YOUTH  AND  THE  CHURCH  $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE  $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 


-  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  - 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


>m 


€njoy  the  fellowship  of  Great  minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illuminating  mind.  Consider 
the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from  spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of 
these  books: 

George  Albert  Smith      SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH 

OTHERS   $2.50 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS   2.25 

David  O.  McKay  ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.25 

i  Cil   ,  ■i''7f''  tfi     \  ■     '  ■JF**"     ■   •.  '  '*£  jr>S  S  ''* 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.        ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY 

AND  ETERNAL  LIFE   3.50 

James  E.  Talmage         JESUS  THE  CHRIST   3.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    2.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith     ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY    3.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   2.75 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS   1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe  IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  75 

HOW  THE  DESERT  WAS  TAMED          1 .25 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY   1.25 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 

YOUNG    3.00 

Richard  L.  Evans  UNTO  THE  HILLS   1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS   1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"   1.50 

AT  THIS  SAME  HOUR   2.00 

-  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  - 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available  to  you  in  the  large 
stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 


mm.  I 


