ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-SIXTH 

ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

APRIL  6,  9,  10,  1966 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 

Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


FIVE  ENLIGHTENING  BOOKS 


TAKE  HEED  TO  YOURSELVES! 

$4.95 

Gospel  Discourses  of 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

During  his  56  years  as  a  General  Authority,  Pres- 
ident Joseph  Fielding  Smith  has  raised  a  warning 
voice  to  members  of  the  Church.  This  choice 
compilation,  issued  on  President  Smith's  90th 
birthday  anniversary,  includes  some  of  the  most 
forceful  and  inspiring  sermons  which  he  has  given. 
This  volume  will  add  to  the  gospel  understanding 
of  every  Latter-day  Saint, 


PROPHETS  AND 
PROPHECIES  OF  THE 
OLD  TESTAMENT  $4.95 

by  Duane  S.  Crowther 
Contains  an  analysis  of  the 
doctrinal  contributions  of  the 
Old  Testament,  valuable  charts 
and  maps  in  full  color,  impor- 
tant historical  information,  a 
study  guide  to  each  of  the  pro- 
phetic books  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, and  course  outlines  for 
teachers.  This  penetrating  vol- 
ume is  a  must  for  any  basic 
Bible  library. 


ETERNAL  MAN  $2.00 

by  Dr.  Truman  G.  Madsen 
This  outstanding  new  work 
manifests  the  truth  that  man 
is  an  eternal  individual,  with 
an  identity  "forever  backward" 
as  well  as  "forever  forward." 
The  understanding  of  self  to 
be  gained  from  the  study  of 
these  essays  will  make  life  here 
and  now  more  meaningful  . .  . 
and  make  the  eternities  ahead 
a  goal  worth  living  for. 


UNDERSTANDING  THE 
THINGS  OF  GOD  $2.95 

by  Alma  P.  Burton 

Elder  Burton  gives  us  a  deeper 
understanding  of  the  basic 
truths  concerning  God  —  that 
He  lives,  that  we  were  created 
in  His  image,  that  exaltation  is 
possible  through  faithfulness. 


ANSWERS  TO  GOSPEL 
QUESTIONS,  Volume  V 
$2.95 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Worthy  addition  to  the  four 
previous  volumes  in  series. 
Answers  such  questions  as: 
Use  of  Cola  Drinks  and  Play- 
ing Games  of  Chance;  Adam 
is  Not  the  Father  of  Jesus 
Christ;  Was  the  Apostle  Paul 
Married?  .  .  .  Magnificent  and 
useful  addition  to  any  home 
library. 


Deseret  Book  Company,  44  E.  So.  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Please  send  me  —  Q  Take  Heed  to  Yourself,  Q  Eternal  Man, 
□  Prophets  and  Prophecies  of  the  Old  Testament,  Q  Understand- 
ing the  Things  of  God,  □  Answers  to  Gospel  Questions,  Vol.  V. 

I  enclose  check  (money  order)  for  total  cost,  including  3V2%  Utah 
sales  tax  for  Utah  residents.  Or,  bill  my  account  □  $  

Name    


Street.. 
City  


.Zip.. 


OFFICIAL  REPORT 

of  the 

ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-SIXTH 
ANNUAL  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


held  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  6,  9  and  10,  1966 


Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference 

♦        ♦  ♦ 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-sixth  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-sixth  An- 
nual Conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April 
6,  9  and  10,  1966. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2  p.m. 
Wednesday,  April  6,  Saturday,  April  9, 
and  Sunday,  April  10.  The  General 
Priesthood  meeting  was  held  Saturday, 
April  9,  1966  at  7:00  p.m. 

Through  the  cooperation  of  185  tele- 
vision and  30  radio  stations,  extensive 
coverage  totaling  many  hours  of  do- 
nated time  was  made  possible  in  the 
United  States  from  coast  to  coast  and 
in  Hawaii. 

Conference  sessions  were  broadcast 
over  international  radio  through  the 
five  WRUL  church-owned  transmitters 
located  near  Boston  and  beamed  to 
Europe,  Africa  and  South  America  in 
Spanish  and  Portuguese,  and  in  Ger- 
man to  Europe. 

Through  these  releases,  closed-circuit 
Conference  transmissions  to  Germany 
and  Great  Britain  were  possible  again. 

Direct  translation  in  the  German 
language  of  some  sessions  was  received 
over  oceanic  cables  by  Saints  in  Ger- 
many assembled  in  chapels  located  at 
Hamburg,  Essen,  Stuttgart,  Munich 
and  Darmstadt.  In  addition,  proceed- 
ings in  English  of  the  Sunday  morning 
sessions  were  transmitted  for  the  bene- 
fit of  servicemen  and  missionaries  in 
Germany. 

Saints  assembled  in  chapels  in  Great 
Britain  received  the  Sunday  morning 
session  in  English  in  Reading,  Bristol, 
Merthyr  Tydfil,  London,  York,  Dur- 
ham, Manchester,  Belfast,  Paisley, 
Kirkcaldy. 

By  television  and  over  many  radio 
stations  in  South  America,  Spanish 
and  Portuguese  translations  of  sessions 
of  the  conference  were  broadcast  within 


hours  following  the  Conference  by 
means  of  tape  recordings.  Stations  in 
the  following  cities  have  verified  these 
broadcasts:  Santiago,  Chile;  Lima, 
Peru;  Cuzco,  Peru;  lea,  Peru;  Cocham- 
bamba,  Bolivia;  Curitiba,  Brazil; 
Cacador,  Brazil;  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil; 
Montevideo,  Uruguay;  Buenos  Aires, 
Argentina;  Artigas,  Uruguay;  Melo, 
Uruguay. 

For  the  fifth  consecutive  time  daily 
sessions  of  conference  were  broadcast 
during  early  morning  hours  over  KIRO 
radio  at  Seattle.  These  broadcasts  could 
be  heard  by  members  of  the  Church 
and  others  in  New  Zealand,  Australia 
and  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 

Daily  sessions  of  the  three-day  Con- 
ference were  recorded  again  and  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL  Radio  during  early 
morning  hours  to  Islands  of  the  Pacific, 
Alaska,  Hawaii,  Canada,  Mexico  and 
the  Caribbean,  and  to  many  states  in 
the  United  States. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed-circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  in  438  separate  gather- 
ings from  coast  to  coast  in  the  United 
States  and  Canada.  Five  stake  build- 
ings in  Salt  Lake  City  and  the  BYU 
fieldhouse  in  Provo  received  the  Priest- 
hood meeting  over  closed-circuit  tele- 
vision. 

The  opening  sessions  of  the  One 
Hundred  and  Thirty-sixth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Wednesday  morning,  April 
6,  at  10:00  a.m.  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  his  counselor, 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  conducting 
the  service. 

The  Primary  Children's  Chorus, 
with  Mary  Ellen  Smith  conducting, 
and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ, 
furnished  the  music  for  the  session. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


President  McKay  was  present  and 
presided  at  each  session,  except  Satur- 
day afternoon.  His  counselors,  Presi- 
dents Hugh  B.  Brown,  N.  Eldon 
Tanner  and  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
conducted  the  services  under  his  di- 
rection. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Hugh  B.  Brown,  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner,  and  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 
President  McKay  attended  all  sessions 
of  the  Conference  except  the  Saturday 
afternoon  session.  Elder  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson  was  absent  because  of  illness. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Ben- 
son, Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L. 
Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand 
Richards,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard 
W.  Hunter,  Gordon  B.  Hinckley, 
Thomas  S.  Monson. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 


John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Boyd  K.  Packer, 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  James  A.  Culli- 
more. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  Marion  D.  Hanks,  A.  Theo- 
dore Tuttle,  Paul  Harold  Dunn. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Van- 
denberg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William 
Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson,  assistants. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education;  Church  educational  author- 
ities and  supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patri- 
archs, quorum  presidencies,  and 
members  of  the  Melchizedek  and 
Aaronic  Priesthood. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake 
and  Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 


FIRST  DAY 


5 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  first  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred and  Thirty-sixth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City  on  Wednesday  morning  at 
10  a.m.  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  President  Hugh 
B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducting  the  service. 

The  Primary  Children's  Chorus, 
with  Mary  Ellen  Smith  conducting, 
and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ, 
furnished  the  musical  numbers  for 
this  session. 

As  a  preliminary  number  the  chorus 
sang  "Reverently  and  Quietly." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
136th  Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  his- 
toric Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  We  are  all 
deeply  grateful  for  the  presence  here 
this  morning  of  President  David  O. 
McKay,  who  in  his  93rd  year,  is  still 
able  to  direct  the  affairs  of  the  con- 
ference and  of  the  Church,  and  he  is 
presiding  at  this  session  and  will  pre- 
side at  all  sessions  of  the  conference. 
He  has  asked  me  to  conduct  this 
service. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  are 
in  attendance  at  this  conference  ex- 
cepting Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of 
the  First  Presidency,  who  is  in  the 
hospital.  We  have  word  that  he  will 
be  watching  on  television. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that 
the  proceedings  of  this  General  Con- 
ference will  again  be  given  extensive 
coverage  in  the  United  States,  Canada, 
and  over  a  network  of  nearly  200  tele- 
vision stations  and  many  radio  stations 
coast  to  coast,  originating  with  KSL 
Radio  and  Television.    Countries  in 


Europe,  Asia,  Africa,  South  and  Latin 
America,  totaling  nearly  two-thirds  of 
the  world,  will  receive  broadcasts  of 
these  proceedings  over  the  Church- 
owned  international  short  wave  radio 
station  WRUL  in  New  York.  Tape 
and  film  recordings  of  the  conference 
will  be  translated  and  sent  to  France, 
Germany,  South  and  Latin  American 
countries,  and  for  the  first  time 
proceedings  will  be  sent  to  China. 
Rebroadcasts  of  all  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference can  be  heard  over  KSL  radio  in 
many  parts  of  the  United  States  and  the 
world,  including  Alaska,  Canada,  Mex- 
ico, the  isles  of  the  Pacific,  and  in  New 
Zealand  and  Australia  over  KIRO 
radio  station  at  Seattle. 

Our  hearts  are  full  of  gratitude  to 
the  Lord  that  we  are  able  to  transmit 
for  a  brief  period  at  least  the  messages 
of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  to  literally  millions  of  people 
throughout  the  world.  We  express  our 
gratitude  and  deepest  thanks  to  the 
owners  and  operators  of  the  radio  and 
television  stations  for  their  cooperation 
in  making  it  possible  to  give  such  ex- 
tensive coverage  to  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference. 

Now  to  all  assembled  here  in  this 
Tabernacle,  and  to  the  overflow  gath- 
erings in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  the 
vast  radio  and  television  audience,  we 
extend  a  very  hearty  welcome.  Any 
important  messages  that  come  for  us 
will  be  announced  over  the  public  ad- 
dress system  on  the  grounds. 

We  wish  to  call  your  attention  to 
the  beautiful  flowers  which  decorate 
the  rostrum.  The  Tacoma  Stake  is 
sending  us,  they  have  not  yet  arrived 
but  will,  from  the  Puyallup  Valley 
Daffodil  Committee,  some  King  Alfred 
daffodils.  The  Calla  Lilies  were  sent  to 
us  by  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake  High 
Priests'  Quorum.  The  beautiful  but- 
terfly orchids  have  come  from  the  San 
Jose  West  Stake  in  California.  All  of 
these  flowers  arrived  by  airplane.  We 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

thank  the  brothers  and  sisters  from 
these  stakes  for  their  thoughtfulness 
in  sending  these  lovely  flowers  to 
beautify  this  building  for  our  con- 
ference. 

The  music  for  this  opening  session 
will  be  given  by  the  Primary  Children's 
chorus  with  Mary  Ellen  Smith  con- 
ducting and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ.  They  have  already  sung  "Rev- 
erently and  Quietly,"  and  now  the 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Horace  B.  Richards,  president  of  the 
Highland  Stake. 


Invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Horace  B.  Richards,  president  of  the 
Highland  Stake. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  Primary  Children's  chorus  will 
now  sing  "Oh,  How  Lovely  Was  The 
Morning,"  Scott  Marcroft  soloist,  and 
under  the  direction  of  Sister  Mary 
Ellen  Smith. 


The  Primary  Children's  Chorus 
sang.  "Oh  How  Lovely  Was  the 
Morning."  Scott  Marcroft,  soloist. 
Mary  Ellen  Smith,  conductor. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

I  am  sure  we  are  all  stirred  and  mel- 
lowed by  the  sweet  singing  of  these 
lovely  young  people.  We  thank  them 
and  their  conductor,  and  pray  God's 
blessings  upon  them. 

The  President  of  the  Church  has 
consented  to  say  a  few  words  of  greet- 


First  Day 

ing  to  this  vast  audience,  and  we  are 
delighted  to  have  him  at  this  time. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with 
feelings  profoundly  appreciated  that  I 
appear  before  you  on  this  occasion. 
One  never  appreciates  the  value  of 
good  health  until  it  is  lost.  I  am  glad 
to  greet  you  at  this  opening  session 
and  pray  that  the  Lord's  blessings  will 
be  with  each  one  who  stands  in  this 
pulpit  and  fulfills  the  assignment  made 
of  him.  The  program  is  already  pre- 
pared. Each  will  receive  his  appoint- 
ment as  arranged.  I  will  not  occupy 
more  of  your  time,  but  pray  that  God's 
blessing  may  rest  with  everyone  who 
participates  in  this  great  conference. 
As  long  as  the  Lord  inspires  him,  each 
will  be  successful  in  giving  to  this 
audience  the  words  that  divine  help 
gives  him.  God  bless  you  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  are  certainly  all  delighted  to 
have  the  President  greet  us  this 
morning,  and  now,  as  has  been  cus- 
tomary since  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  we  shall  sustain  the  General 
Authorities,  general  officers  and  gen- 
eral auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church. 
Before  doing  so,  however,  we  will  ask 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  clerk  of  the 
conference,  to  read  certain  information, 
statistical  data,  concerning  the  Church 
in  which  you  will  be  interested,  and 
after  Brother  Anderson,  Elder  Orval 
W.  Adams  will  read  a  statement  of  the 
Church  Finance  Committee.  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1965 

For  the  information  of  the  members  of  the  Church:  The  First  Presidency  has  issued 
the  following  statistical  report  concerning  the  membership  of  the  Church  at  the 
end  of  the  year  1965. 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1965   

An  increase  of  14  Stakes  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards    3,301 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes    596 


414 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  7 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes  at  close  of  year   3,897 

Number  of  Mission  Branches  at  close  of  year    2,137 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year   74 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1965: 

In  the  Stakes    1,977,418 

In  the  Missions    418,514 

Total  Membership    2,395,932 

Church  Growth  during  1965: 

Children  Blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions    61,216 

Children  of  record  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    49,413 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    82,455 

Social  Statistics: 

(Based  on  1965  data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    27.23 

Number  of  persons  married  per  thousand    15.30 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.17 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1965 

Deacons    106,605 

Teachers    74,720 

Priests    108,119 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    289,444 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1965 

Elders    195,085 

Seventies    22,841 

High  Priests    63.880 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood   281,806 

Grand  Total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood    571,250 

An  increase  of  17,230  during  year 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society   (Membership)    286,820 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)    825,455 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    299,188 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    286,735 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    421,030 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted  during  the  year    106,285 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment    8,416 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan    162,415 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    8,300 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  First  Day 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1965  for  Temple  Ordinances    1,246,301 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  13  countries  during  the  year  were 

equivalent  to  184,599  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages 

per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1965  in  the  13  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living    71,579 

For  the  dead    3,607,962 

Total  number  of  ordinances    3,679,541 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1965  cumulative  enrollments  in  Church  Schools,  including 

Institutes  and  Seminaries    170,279 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1965  were  laboring  under 

calls  from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  fulltime  missions    12,108 

Number  of  Local  Missionaries  (full-time  and  part-time)  who  at  the  close 

of  1965  were  laboring  in  these  missions    477 

Number  of  Stake  Missionaries  at  the  close  of  the  year    5,580 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year    18,165 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1965    6,044 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Leah  Dunford  Widtsoe,  writer  and  leader  of  women,  widow  of  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

Archibald  F.  Bennett,  Librarian,  Genealogical  Society  from  1928  to  1961 

Helen  Spencer  Williams,  formerly  first  counselor  in  the  general  presidency  of  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Preston  Nibley,  former  Assistant  Church  Historian 

Boyd  O.  Hatch,  Managing  Editor  of  the  Instructor 

Marba  Cannon  Josephson,  Associate  Managing  Editor  of  the  Improvement  Era 

Alma  H.  Pettigrew,  General  Secretary-Treasurer,  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association 

Theodore  (Ted)  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President,  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


9 


April  1,  1966 

The  First  Presidency 

47  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  report  of  the 
1965  financial  operations  of  the  Corpo- 
ration of  the  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as 
well  as  of  auxiliaries  and  other  organ- 
izations for  which  accounts  are  main- 
tained in  the  Financial  Department  of 
the  Church.  Attention  was  given  par- 
ticularly to  the  accounting  and  audit- 
ing procedures  followed  as  to  funds 
received  and  to  the  manner  in  which 
expenditures  are  controlled.  We  have 
determined  that  the  expenditures  of 
such  funds  are  authorized  by  the  First 
Presidency  and  by  budgetary  pro- 
cedures. The  budget  is  authorized  by 
the  Council  on  Disposition  of  the 
Tithes  comprised  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

A  continuous  audit  of  the  financial 
records  of  the  Church  is  conducted  by 
the  Church  Auditing  Department, 
which  is  completely  independent  of  all 
other  departments.  Businesses  owned 
or  controlled  by  the  Church,  for  which 
accounts  are  not  maintained  in  the 
Financial  Department,  are  audited  by 
professional  auditing  firms. 


Based  upon  our  review  of  the  finan- 
cial reports  of  the  Corporation  of  the 
President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  ex- 
planations made  by  the  personnel  of 
the  Financial  and  Auditing  Depart- 
ments of  the  Church,  we  are  of  the 
opinion  that  the  expenditures  of  funds 
during  the  year  1965  were  made  in 
accordance  with  the  established  pro- 
cedures outlined  herein. 

We  congratulate  the  General  Au- 
thorities and  their  associates  for  the 
sound  manner  in  which  the  finances 
of  the  Church  are  administered,  and 
we  commend  the  Church  Financial 
Department  and  the  Church  Auditing 
Department  for  the  expert  and  careful 
manner  in  which  all  financial  records 
are  maintained  and  audited. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

It  is  now  your  privilege  and  responsi- 
bility to  vote  on  the  General  Authori- 
ties, general  Church  officers,  and  the 
general  officers  of  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  as  counselors  in  the  First 
Presidency. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  First  Day 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Thomas  S.  Monson 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Boyd  K.  Packer 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Bernard  P.  Brockbank 

Wm.  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  James  A.  Cullimore 

Trustee-in-Trust 

David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter  Paul  Harold  Dunn 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 

The  Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson  as 
Assistants. 

GENERAL  CHURCH  PRIESTHOOD  COMMITTEES 

Priesthood  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Priesthood  Home  Teaching  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
John  H.  Vandenberg,  Vice  Chairman 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Missionary  Committee 

Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Chairman  of  Executive  Committee 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Managing  Director 
Thomas  S.  Monson,  Associate  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Genealogical  Committee 

Howard  W.  Hunter,  Chairman 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  First  Day 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted, 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner,  Chief  organist 
Robert  N.  Cundick 
Roy  M.  Darley 

Frank  W.  Asper,  Organist  Emeritus 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown:  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  a 

, ,,  .    .         .  ,        ,               T  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  and 

All  m  favor  of  those  whose  names  I  President  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 

have  lust  read,  please  make  it  manifest.  .      .1            ,          r.  .  , 

Are  there  any  opposed?  APost.les'  ™U  \  Tt  n 

We  thank  you  sincerely  for  your  morning  He  wil  be  followed  by  Elder 

sustaining  vote  and  hope  that  it  will  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant  to  the 

not  only  be  with  the  raise  of  the  hand  Twelve. 

but  with  earnest,  dedicated  service.  President  Smith. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  and  President 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
very  thankful  to  be  here  with  you  at 
this,  the  136th  Annual  General  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  pray  that  I 
shall  say  something  that  will  be  for 
the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom  of  our 
Father  and  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
are  listening.  I  would  like  to  speak  on 


"The  Signs  of  the  Lord's  Coming,"  and 
I  pray  that  he  will  direct  me  in  what 
I  say. 

His  Coming  is  near 

Many  things  have  taken  place  dur- 
ing the  past  one  hundred  and  thirty- 
six  years  to  impress  faithful  members 
of  the  Church  with  the  fact  that  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

coming  of  the  Lord  is  near.  The  gos- 
pel has  been  restored.  The  Church 
has  been  fully  organized.  The  priest- 
hood has  been  conferred  upon  man. 
The  various  dispensations  from  the  be- 
ginning have  been  revealed  and  their 
keys  and  authorities  given  to  the 
Church.  Israel  has  been  and  is  being 
gathered  to  the  land  of  Zion.  The  Jews 
are  returning  to  Jerusalem.  The  gospel 
is  being  preached  in  all  the  world  as 
a  witness  to  every  nation.  Temples  are 
being  built,  and  ordinance  work  for  the 
dead,  as  well  as  for  the  living,  is  per- 
formed in  them.  The  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren have  turned  to  their  fathers,  and 
the  children  are  seeking  after  their 
dead.  The  covenants  which  the  Lord 
promised  to  make  with  Israel  in  the 
latter  days  have  been  revealed,  and 
thousands  of  gathered  Israel  have  en- 
tered into  them.  Thus  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  advancing,  and  all  these  things 
are  signs  of  the  near  approach  of  our 
Lord. 

Prophecies  are  being  fulfilled 

Jesus  said  the  Jews  would  be  scat- 
tered among  all  nations  and  Jerusalem 
would  be  trodden  down  by  the  Gen- 
tiles until  the  times  of  the  Gentiles 
were  fulfilled.  (Luke  21:24.)  The 
prophecy  in  Section  45,  verses  24-29, 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  regard- 
ing the  Jews  was  literally  fulfilled. 
Jerusalem,  which  was  trodden  down  by 
the  Gentiles,  is  no  longer  trodden 
down  but  is  made  the  home  for  the 
Jews.  They  are  returning  to  Palestine, 
and  by  this  we  may  know  that  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  are  near  their 
close. 

The  words  of  the  prophets  are  rapid- 
ly being  fulfilled,  but  it  is  done  on 
such  natural  principles  that  most  of  us 
fail  to  see  it.  Joel  promised  that  the 
Lord  would  pour  out  his  spirit  upon 
all  flesh:  the  sons  and  daughters 
should  prophesy,  old  men  should 
dream  dreams,  and  young  men  should 
see  visions.  Wonders  in  heaven  and  in 
the  earth  would  be  seen,  and  there 
would  be  fire,  blood,  and  pillars  of 
smoke.  Eventually  the  sun  is  to  be 
turned  into  darkness  and  the  moon  as 


FIELDING  SMITH  13 

blood,  and  then  shall  come  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord.  Some 
of  these  signs  have  been  given;  some 
are  yet  to  come.  The  sun  has  not  yet 
been  darkened.  We  are  informed  that 
this  will  be  one  of  the  last  acts  just 
preceding  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

One  wonders  if  we  are  not  now  see- 
ing some  of  the  signs  in  heaven — not 
all,  for  undoubtedly  some  of  them  will 
be  among  the  heavenly  bodies,  such 
as  the  moon  and  the  sun,  the  meteors 
and  comets,  but  in  speaking  of  the 
heavens,  reference  is  made  to  that  part 
which  surrounds  the  earth  and  which 
belongs  to  it.  It  is  in  the  atmosphere 
where  many  of  the  signs  are  to  be 
given.  Do  we  not  see  airships  of  var- 
ious kinds  traveling  through  the  heav- 
ens daily?  Have  we  not  had  signs  in 
the  earth  and  through  the  earth  with 
the  radio,  railroad  trains,  automobiles, 
submarines,  and  satellites,  and  in  many 
other  ways?  There  are  yet  to  be  great 
signs:  the  heavens  are  to  be  shaken, 
the  sign  of  the  Son  of  Man  is  to  be 
given,  and  then  shall  the  tribes  of  the 
earth  mourn. 

The  signs  appear 

Among  the  signs  of  the  last  days 
was  an  increase  of  learning.  Daniel 
was  commanded  to  ".  .  .  shut  up  the 
words,  and  seal  the  book  [of  his  proph- 
ecy], even  to  the  time  of  the  end:  [and 
in  that  day]  many  shall  run  to  and 
fro,"  said  he  "and  knowledge  shall  be 
increased."  (Dan.  12:4.)  Are  not  the 
people  "running  to  and  fro"  today  as 
they  never  did  before  in  the  history  of 
the  world?  Go  to  the  Bureau  of  Infor- 
mation and  ask  there  how  many  tour- 
ists visit  Temple  Square  each  year. 
Make  inquiry  at  the  various  national 
parks,  at  the  bus,  railroad,  and  steam- 
ship companies;  learn  how  many  are 
running  to  Europe,  Asia,  and  all  parts 
of  the  earth. 

Are  we  not,  most  of  us,  running  to 
and  fro  in  our  automobiles  seeking 
pleasure?  Is  not  knowledge  increased? 
Was  there  ever  a  time  in  the  history 
of  the  world  when  so  much  knowledge 
was  poured  out  upon  the  people?  But 
sad  to  say,  the  words  of  Paul  are  true 


14  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

— the  people  are  "ever  learning  and 
never  able  to  come  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  truth."   (2  Tim.  3:7.) 

Have  you  ever  tried  to  associate  the 
outpouring  of  knowledge,  the  great  dis- 
coveries and  inventions  during  the 
past  136  years,  with  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel?  Do  you  not  think  there  is 
some  connection?  It  is  not  because  we 
are  more  intelligent  than  our  fathers 
that  we  have  received  this  knowledge, 
but  because  God  has  willed  it  so  in 
our  generation!  Yet  men  take  the 
honor  unto  themselves  and  fail  to  rec- 
ognize the  hand  of  the  Almighty  in 
these  things. 

America  was  discovered  because  the 
Lord  willed  it.  The  gospel  was  re- 
stored in  America,  rather  than  in  some 
other  land,  because  the  Lord  willed  it. 
This  is  the  land  "shadowing  with 
wings"  spoken  of  by  Isaiah  that  today 
is  sending  ambassadors  by  the  sea  to  a 
nation  scattered  and  peeled,  which 
at  one  time  was  terrible  in  the  begin- 
ning. (Isa.  18:1-2.)  Now  that  nation 
is  being  gathered,  and  once  again  they 
shall  be  in  favor  with  the  Lord. 

Have  we  not  had  numerous  rumors 
of  wars?  Have  we  not  had  wars,  such 
wars  as  the  world  never  saw  before? 
Is  there  not  today  commotion  among 
the  nations,  and  are  not  their  rulers 
troubled?  Have  not  kingdoms  been 
overturned  and  great  changes  been 
made  among  nations?  The  whole 
earth  is  in  commotion.  Earthquakes  in 
divers  places  are  reported  every  day. 
I  took  the  liberty  to  call  Dr.  Melvin 
Cook  and  have  him  get  for  me  some 
facts  about  how  many  earthquakes  we 
have  now.  He  quotes  from  a  recent 
book  (Earthquakes  and  Earth  Struc- 
ture) by  John  H.  Hodgson  (who  is 
chief,  Division  of  Seismology,  Domin- 
ion Observatory,  Ottawa)  the  follow- 
ing: "The  way  the  numbers  [of 
earthquakes]  go  up  as  the  magnitude 
goes  down  makes  it  easy  for  us  to 
accept  the  estimate  that,  if  all  earth- 
quakes down  to  zero  magnitude  could 
be  detected,  the  number  would  be  be- 
tween one  and  ten  million  each  year." 
Then  he  goes  on  to  say  that  there  are 
about  2,000  earthquakes  each  year 
with  the  magnitude  between  5  and  6 


First  Day 

and  about  20,000  between  4  and  5; 
therefore  it  looks  as  if  there  are  around 
20,000  earthquakes  a  year  that  could 
be  damaging  if  they  occurred  in  pop- 
ulated areas.  The  other  signs  given 
by  the  Lord  have  been  seen  or  are  at 
our  doors.  We  know  this  to  be  the 
case  both  from  observation  and  from 
the  predictions  of  the  prophets.  Eli- 
jah, 130  years  ago,  told  Joseph  Smith 
that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  was  near,  ".  .  .  even  at  the  doors." 
(D&C  110:16.) 

And  are  not  seen 

Yet  the  old  world  goes  on  about  its 
business  paying  very  little  heed  to  all 
the  Lord  has  said  and  to  all  the  signs 
and  indications  that  have  been  given. 
Men  harden  their  hearts  and  say  ".  .  . 
that  Christ  delayeth  his  coming  until 
the  end  of  the  earth."  (D&C  45:26.) 

They  are  ".  .  .  eating  and  drinking, 
marrying  and  giving  in  marriage  .  .  ." 
acording  to  the  customs  of  the  world, 
not  of  God,  without  one  thought  that 
the  end  of  wickedness  is  near.  Pleasure 
and  the  love  of  the  world  have  cap- 
tured the  hearts  of  the  people.  There 
is  no  time  for  such  people  to  worship 
the  Lord  or  give  heed  to  his  warnings; 
so  it  will  continue  until  the  day  of 
destruction  is  upon  them. 

At  no  time  in  the  history  of  the 
world  has  it  been  more  necessary  for 
the  children  of  men  to  repent.  We 
boast  of  our  advanced  civilization,  of 
the  great  knowledge  and  wisdom  with 
which  we  are  possessed;  but  in  and 
through  it  all,  the  love  of  God  is  for- 
gotten! The  Lord,  as  well  as  Elijah, 
gave  us  warning,  as  did  also  Joseph 
Smith.  The  Lord  said:  "For  behold, 
verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  the  time 
is  soon  at  hand  that  I  shall  come  in  a 
cloud  with  power  and  great  glory. 

"And  it  shall  be  a  great  day  at  the 
time  of  my  coming,  for  all  nations 
shall  tremble. 

"But  before  that  great  day  shall 
come,  the  sun  shall  be  darkened, 
and  the  moon  be  turned  into  blood; 
and  the  stars  shall  refuse  their 
shining,  and  some  shall  fall,  and  great 
destructions  await  the  wicked."  (D&C 
34:7-9.) 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

The  great  and  dreadful  day 
is  at  hand 

If  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  were  near  at  hand  when  Elijah 
came  130  years  ago,  we  are  just  one 
century  nearer  it  today.  But  some  will 
say:  "But  no!  Elijah,  you  are  wrong! 
Surely  130  years  have  passed,  and  are 
we  not  better  off  today  than  ever  be- 
fore? Look  at  our  discoveries,  our 
inventions,  our  knowledge,  and  our 
wisdom!  Surely  you  made  a  mistake!" 
So  many  seem  to  think  and  say,  and 
judging  by  their  actions  they  are  sure, 
that  the  world  is  bound  to  go  on  in  its 
present  condition  for  millions  of  years 
before  the  end  will  come.  Talk  to 
them;  hear  what  they  have  to  say — 
these  learned  men  of  the  world.  "We 
have  had  worse  times,"  they  say.  "You 
are  wrong  in  thinking  there  are  more 
calamities  now  than  in  earlier  times. 
There  are  not  more  earthquakes,  the 
earth  has  always  been  quaking,  but 
now  we  have  facilities  for  gathering 
the  news  which  our  fathers  did  not 
have.  These  are  not  signs  of  the 
times;  things  are  not  different  from 
former  times."  And  so  the  people  re- 
fuse to  heed  the  warnings  the  Lord  so 
kindly  gives  to  them,  and  thus  they 
fulfill  the  scriptures.  Peter  said  such 
sayings  would  be  uttered,  and  he 
warned  the  people.  (2  Pet.  3:3-7.)  In 
this  warning  Peter  calls  attention  to 
the  destruction  of  the  world  in  the 
flood  and  says  that  at  the  coming  of 
Christ — which  scoffers  would  postpone 
or  deny — there  shall  come  another 
cleansing  of  the  earth,  but  the  second 
time  by  fire.  Is  not  the  condition 
among  the  people  today  similar  to  that 
in  the  days  of  Noah?  Did  the  people 
believe  and  repent  then?  Can  you 
make  men,  save  with  few  exceptions, 
believe  today  that  there  is  any  dan- 
ger? Do  you  believe  the  Lord  when 
he  said  almost  135  years  ago:  "For  I 
am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will 
that  all  men  shall  know  that  the  day 


FIELDING  SMITH  15 

speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet, 
but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall 
be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil 
shall  have  power  over  his  own  domin- 
ion." (D&C  1:35.) 

"And  behold,  and  lo,  I  come  quickly 
to  judgment,  to  convince  all  of  their 
ungodly  deeds  which  they  have  com- 
mitted against  me,  as  it  is  written  of 
me  in  the  volume  of  the  book."  (D&C 
99:5.) 

"Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that 
which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh; 

"And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kin- 
dled, and  his  sword  is  bathed  in 
heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth."  (D&C  1:12- 
13.) 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this  genera- 
tion, in  which  these  things  shall  be 
shown  forth,  shall  not  pass  away  until 
all  I  have  told  you  shall  be  fulfilled." 
(Joseph  Smith  1:34.) 

Shall  we  slumber  on  in  utter  obliv- 
ion or  indifference  to  all  that  the 
Lord  has  given  us  as  warning?  I  say 
unto  you,  "Watch  therefore:  for  ye 
know  not  what  hour  your  Lord  doth 
come. 

Heed  the  divine  warning 

"But  know  this,  that  if  the  good 
man  of  the  house  had  known  in  what 
watch  the  thief  would  come,  he  would 
have  watched,  and  would  not  have 
suffered  his  house  to  be  broken  up. 

"Therefore  be  ye  also  ready:  for  in 
such  an  hour  as  ye  think  not  the  Son 
of  Man  cometh."  (Matt.  24:42-44.) 

May  we  heed  this  warning  given  by 
the  Lord  and  get  our  houses  in  order 
and  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the 
Lord,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith.  Elder  Bernard 
P.  Brockbank  will  now  speak  to  us. 


16 

Wednesday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  Day 


Brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  good  to  be 
in  this  historic  Tabernacle  in  general 
conference — to  be  here  near  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord's  house  in  the  tops 
of  the  mountains. 

The  spires  of  the  temple  capped  with 
the  Angel  Moroni  are  one  of  the  land- 
marks of  the  restoration  of  the  Church 
and  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  through 
heavenly  messengers  here  on  this  earth. 
As  you  know,  the  facade  of  the  Mor- 
mon Pavilion  at  the  New  York  World's 
Fair  was  a  replica  of  the  front  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  Many  visitors 
commented  on  its  beauty  and  religious 
significance.  It  served  as  a  beacon  and 
a  magnet  to  draw  millions  of  people 
to  the  pavilion. 

Millions  seek  greater  light  and 
knowledge 

We  found  after  visiting  with  mil- 
lions of  visitors  at  the  Mormon  Pa- 
vilion that  many  were  sincerely  seeking 
for  greater  light  and  knowledge  rela- 
tive to  God's  plan  of  life.  Many  wanted 
to  know  more  about  a  living,  personal 
God  and  about  a  living,  personal  Jesus 
Christ.  They  seemed  hungry  and 
anxious  to  hear  the  teachings  of  the 
Savior  as  they  were  taught  and  lived 
by  him.  They  wanted  to  hear  the  doc- 
trines of  the  holy  scriptures  as  given 
by  the  ancient  prophets,  apostles,  and 
Jesus  Christ. 

Youthful  missionaries  have  the  spirit 

The  main  exhibit  at  the  pavilion 
was  the  missionaries.  The  priesthood 
and  the  Holy  Ghost  were  manifest  to 
tens  of  thousands  through  the  spirit, 
love,  and  dedication  of  the  mission- 
aries. Many  visitors  left  their  com- 
ments. 

A  Catholic  said:  "There  should  be 
more  young  men  like  this  called  all 
over  the  world.  This  is  the  most  in- 
structive religious  pavilion  at  the  fair. 
I'm  impressed  with  so  many  young 
men  knowing  the  truth." 

A  Baptist  said:  "Words  fail  to  de- 
scribe the  beauty  seen  here.  I  wish 


every  faith  had  as  much  conviction 
and  such  dedicated  young  people  with 
the  ideals  of  the  spirit.  There  is  hope 
for  the  future  through  your  young 
people." 

The  Mormon  Pavilion  with  its 
achievements  is  one  of  the  greatest, 
most  far-reaching  missionary  ventures 
of  our  time.  We  learned  many  lessons 
from  the  visitors  at  the  pavilion;  and 
if  the  lessons  are  fully  used,  they  will 
help  to  bring  into  reality  one  of  the 
great  requests  of  our  prophet,  President 
David  O.  McKay.  He  requested  that 
every  member  be  a  missionary  and 
that  each  member  bring  one  or  more 
persons  into  the  Church  each  year. 

The  Lord  said  in  modern-day  revela- 
tion, "Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify 
and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  hath  been  warned  to 
warn  his  neighbor."  (D&C  88:81.) 

I  have  asked  hundreds  of  members 
if  they  would  like  to  bring  someone 
into  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  each  said, 
"Yes";  but  year  after  year  passes,  and 
they  do  not  accomplish  their  desire. 
Only  a  very  small  percent  of  the  Saints 
bring  one  or  more  converts  into  the 
Church  each  year.  We  have  more  than 
one  million  possible  members  who 
would  like  to  help  in  reaching  and 
teaching  their  friends,  who  would  like 
to  bring  someone  into  the  Church  each 
year. 

Other  centers  of  information 

We  are  in  the  process  of  creating 
and  setting  up  similar  exhibits  to  those 
used  at  the  Mormon  Pavilion  in  each 
of  the  church  bureaus  of  information 
where  space  is  available.  In  the  areas 
such  as  Salt  Lake  City  the  local  mis- 
sionaries and  the  Saints  will  be  able 
to  bring  their  friends  and  neighbors  to 
the  Salt  Lake  Temple  Square  Bureau 
of  Information  and  there,  with  the 
help  of  visual  aids,  teach  them  about 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  and  bring 
their  friends  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  exhibits 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 


17 


will  be  built  around  the  teachings  and 
doctrines  as  taught  and  exemplified  by 
the  Savior.  It  has  always  been  most 
interesting  to  me  to  know  that  Jesus 
not  only  taught  his  plan  of  life  and 
salvation,  but  he  also  set  the  example 
and  requested  that  we  follow  him. 
This  leaves  little  room  for  private 
interpretation. 

Member  missionaries  to  use 
the  exhibits 

Missionary  Saints  through  the  help 
of  the  exhibits  will  be  able  to  en- 
courage their  friends  and  neighbors  to 
turn  to  the  God-inspired  scriptures  to 
seek  and  find  the  true  gospel  through 
the  recorded  message  that  our  Father 
in  heaven  has  left  here  on  the  earth 
for  us. 

The  exhibits  will  start  with  the 
creation  of  man  in  the  image  and 
likeness  of  God. 

The  ancient  prophets  will  be  shown 
as  God  and  heavenly  messengers  ap- 
peared and  directed  them  in  the  Lord's 
program. 

The  teachings  and  examples  of  Jesus 
Christ  will  be  shown  through  murals 
and  various  visual  aids,  such  as  Jesus 
setting  the  example  for  proper  water 
baptism,  and  all  Christians  will  be 
encouraged  to  know  and  follow  his 
example. 

Exhibits  review  fundamentals 
of  the  Restoration 

Jesus  called,  ordained,  and  built  his 
Church  around  Twelve  Apostles. 
Through  visual  aids  and  the  spoken 
word,  we  will  encourage  the  people  to 
know  that  apostles  are  an  essential  part 
of  Jesus  Christ's  Church. 

The  apostasy  from  the  teachings  of 
Jesus  Christ  will  be  shown  through 
visual  aids.  Men  have  changed  the 
concept  of  God  and  Jesus  Christ.  Some 
have  even  gone  so  far  as  to  say  that 
God  is  without  body,  parts,  or  passions. 
Men  changed  the  baptism  of  Jesus. 
Men  discontinued  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  was 
changed.  Tithing  was  discontinued 
among  many.  And  many  other  changes 
were  made  that  time  will  not  permit 
to  bring  to  our  attention. 


We  will  show  through  visual  aids 
the  First  Vision  and  the  restoration  of 
the  Church  and  the  teachings  and  plan 
of  life  as  given  by  the  Savior. 

The  same  film  on  eternal  life  that 
was  shown  at  the  pavilion  will  be 
used.  I  would  like  to  quote  a  state- 
ment by  Norman  Vincent  Peale  re- 
garding the  film.  He  said,  "The  film 
told  the  story  of  where  we  came  from, 
why  we  are  here,  and  where  we  are 
going."  He  added,  "The  film  motivated 
one  to  want  to  make  the  most  of  earth 
life,  and  the  last  two  minutes  of  the 
film  were  the  most  touching,  the  most 
inspirational,  and  most  revealing  of 
any  two  minutes  of  a  film  I  have  ever 
seen  in  my  entire  life." 

He  also  said,  "I  don't  know  the 
name  of  the  character- actor  who  was 
the  grandfather,  but  when  he  died  and 
entered  the  eternal  existence,  bewilder- 
ment and  wonder  were  written  on  his 
face.  All  of  a  sudden,  he  caught  a 
glimpse  of  his  wife  from  whom  he  had 
been  parted.  She  ran  to  him  and 
threw  her  arms  around  him.  Then 
came  his  brothers,  sisters,  mother  and 
father,  aunts,  uncles,  grandparents, 
and  all  who  were  near  and  dear  to  him 
on  earth.  Surrounded  by  those  who 
loved  him,  the  camera  gave  us  a  close- 
up  of  his  face,  whereon  was  written 
radiant,  exultant  joy.  I  have  never  seen 
such  a  character  portrayal,  nor  such  a 
beautiful  scene.  Out  of  this  film,  I 
learned  two  things:  (1)  an  entirely 
new  concept  of  the  purpose  of  life  and 
its  connection  with  the  eternities,  and 
(2)  an  entirely  new  concept  of  the 
importance  of  the  family  in  connection 
with  the  eternities."  (Interview  with 
T.  Bowring  Woodbury  and  Norman 
Vincent  Peale,  May  20,  1964.)  Our 
family  program  is  one  of  our  great 
missionary  tools. 

We  hope  that  many  exhibits  will 
be  created  to  assist  the  Saints  and  the 
missionaries  to  teach  and  love  their 
neighbors  and  friends  into  the  Church. 
We  hope  that  it  will  be  possible  to 
have  similar  portable  exhibits  that  can 
be  attractively  set  up  in  the  cultural 
halls  and  stake  centers  of  the  Church. 
They  would  run  for  a  week  or  ten 
days,  and  the  missionaries  and  Saints 
can  bring  their  friends  and  neighbors. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

The  World's  Fair  film  on  eternal  life 
could  also  be  shown  as  part  of  this 
exhibit. 

Friends  and  neighbors  to  gain  the 
spirit  of  the  Restoration 

With  sufficient  bureaus  and  portable 
units  we  should  be  able  to  have  a  half 
million  Saints  and  missionaries  par- 
ticipate. Can  you  picture  a  half  million 
Saints  with  the  help  of  the  Lord 
teaching  their  friends  and  neighbors 
about  the  restoration  of  God's  program 
through  a  prophet  of  God  and  teaching 
them  to  see  the  plan  of  life  as  taught 
by  the  Savior  and  not  the  plan  that 
has  been  changed  and  corrupted  by 
men? 

The  religious  unrest  in  the  world 
today  is  causing  the  honest  in  heart  to 
seek  and  look  for  the  living  God.  Many 
of  our  friends  and  neighbors  are  wait- 
ing to  hear  and  know  God's  program 
for  man. 

Fellow  Saints,  you  who  have  a  testi- 
mony that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ 


First  Day 

lives,  and  that  God's  plan  of  life  is 
essential  for  entrance  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  you  have  a  responsibility  to 
warn  your  neighbors.  In  my  humble 
opinion  the  greatest  potential  mission- 
ary power  and  force  of  this  Church  is 
vested  in  the  Saints.  May  we  follow 
our  Prophet  and  teach  our  friends  and 
neighbors,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  chorus  and  congregation  will 
join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  A  Prophet,"  and  after  the 
singing  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  As- 
sistant to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
will  speak  to  us,  and  he  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric. 


The  chorus  and  congregation  sang 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet." 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  appreciate 
very  much  this  privilege  of  having  a 
part  with  you  in  this  great  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  As  important 
ideas  are  held  up  before  our  minds,  we 
are  helped  to  follow  more  fully  that 
divine  instruction  that  "man  shall  not 
live  by  bread  alone."  (Matt.  4:4.)  It  is 
desirable  at  all  times  that  we  should 
live  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  but  this 
applies  particularly  to  us,  as  our  age  is 
the  most  important  and  the  most  ex- 
citing that  the  world  has  ever  known. 
Our  forefathers  lived  on  a  flat  station- 
ary earth  and  plowed  their  ground 
with  a  wooden  stick.  But  we  live  on 
an  earth  of  power  steering,  jet  propul- 
sion, and  atomic  power,  and  we  need 
personality  and  character  qualities  to 
match  the  times.  Great  events  are  now 
taking  place  at  breathtaking  speed  in 
fulfillment  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  to 
Daniel,  twenty-five  centuries  ago.  Con- 
cerning our  day,  he  said,  "But  thou,  O 


Daniel,  shut  up  the  words,  .  .  .  even 
to  the  time  of  the  end:  many  shall  run 
to  and  fro,  and  knowledge  shall  be 
increased."  (Dan.  12:4.) 

The  "Knowledge  Explosion" 

Certainly  the  knowledge  explosion 
of  our  day  furnishes  a  literal  fulfill- 
ment of  this  prophecy  before  our  own 
eyes.  It  is  interesting  to  remember  that 
George  Washington  rode  to  his  inau- 
guration in  a  chariot  drawn  by  horses, 
but  two  thousand  years  earlier,  Julius 
Caesar  had  gone  to  his  Roman  capital 
in  exactly  the  same  way.  Little  or  no 
change  had  taken  place  in  all  of  that 
long  period.  When  I  was  born,  the 
Wright  Brothers  had  not  yet  made 
their  famous  maiden  60-foot  flight  at 
Kill  Devil  Hill.  During  the  first  part 
of  our  century  we  had  no  guided 
missiles,  no  space  travel,  no  automo- 
biles, no  radios,  no  television,  no 
movies,  and  no  atomic  bombs.  And 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


19 


most  of  the  world's  work  was  then  still 
being  done  by  the  muscle  power  of 
men  and  animals.  However,  the 
ancient  prophets  have  known  a  great 
deal  about  our  age  of  miracles  for 
many  centuries. 

Moses  foresaw  history 

Moses  was  permitted  to  see  the  his- 
tory of  our  earth  from  its  beginning 
to  its  end.  (Moses  1:8.)  Much  of  the 
writings  of  Isaiah  concerns  our  own 
day,  though  he  seemed  a  little  bit 
surprised  when  he  looked  out  of  his 
window  into  the  future  and  exclaimed: 
"Who  are  these  that  fly  as  a  cloud, 
and  as  the  doves  to  their  windows?" 
(Isa.  60:8.)  Foreseeing  our  day,  the 
prophet  Habakkuk  said,  "Their  horses 
also  are  swifter  than  the  leopards,  and 
are  more  fierce  than  the  evening 
wolves:  and  their  horsemen  shall 
spread  themselves,  and  their  horsemen 
shall  come  from  afar;  they  shall  fly  as 
the  eagle  that  hasteth  to  eat."  (Hab. 
1:8.)  And  Nahum  gives  a  clear  mental 
view  of  one  of  our  night  scenes  when 
he  said:  ".  .  .  the  chariots  shall  be 
with  flaming  torches  in  the  day  of  his 
preparation,  and  the  fir  trees  shall  be 
terribly  shaken. 

"The  chariots  shall  rage  in  the 
streets,  they  shall  justle  one  against 
another  in  the  broad  ways:  they  shall 
seem  like  torches,  they  shall  run  like 
the  lightnings."  (Nah.  2:3-4.) 

The  important  world  events  all  seem 
to  have  been  foretold.  The  people  of 
Noah's  day  were  warned  about  the 
flood,  and  God  made  known  to  Sodom 
and  Gomorrah  that  their  evil  would 
draw  a  rainstorm  of  fire  and  brimstone 
from  heaven.  Jesus  warned  Jerusalem 
of  its  impending  doom  and  foretold  his 
own  death.  He  announced  the  apostasy 
from  God  and  foretold  the  dark  ages 
that  would  follow  the  Savior's  rejec- 
tion. 

Second  coming  of  Christ  foreseen 

But  one  of  the  most  important 
events  on  the  divine  timetable  of  the 
world's  future  is  the  glorious  second 
coming  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  will 
probably  be  the  most  momentous 
happening  ever  to  take  place  in  the 


history  of  the  world.  The  most  often 
mentioned  event  in  the  entire  Bible  is 
that  wonderful,  yet  awful  experience 
that  we  will  have  when  Jesus  Christ 
shall  come  to  judge  our  world.  There 
are  many  important  gospel  doctrines 
mentioned  in  the  Bible  only  briefly, 
and  some  not  at  all.  The  new  birth  is 
mentioned  in  the  Bible  nine  times; 
baptism  is  mentioned  52  times,  repen- 
tance is  mentioned  89,  but  the  second 
coming  of  Christ  is  mentioned  over 
1,500  times  in  the  Old  Testament  and 
300  times  in  the  New  Testament. 
If  God  thought  this  subject  that 
important,  he  must  have  wanted  us  to 
do  something  about  it.  The  Holy 
Bible  forecasts  events  before  they 
happen,  and  much  of  our  history  has 
actually  been  written  down  before  it 
occurred.  The  Bible  accurately  pre- 
dicted Christ's  first  coming  in  every 
detail,  hundreds  of  years  in  advance. 
It  revealed  that  he  would  come  from 
the  tribe  of  Judah  (Mic.  5:2;  John 
7:42),  that  his  birthplace  would  be 
Bethlehem  (Mic.  5:2;  John  7:42),  that 
he  would  be  born  of  a  virgin  (Isa. 
7:14),  that  he  would  flee  into  Egypt 
(Hos.  11:1;  Matt.  2:15),  that  he  would 
heal  the  sick,  that  his  own  people 
would  reject  him  (Isa.  53:3),  that  he 
would  be  betrayed  by  a  friend  and 
sold  for  30  pieces  of  silver,  that  he 
would  take  upon  himself  the  sins  of 
the  world  and  be  crucified  with  sin- 
ners (Mark  15:27;  Isa.  53:3-12;  Luke 
22:37),  that  his  sides  would  be  pierced 
(John  19:37;  Zech.  12:10),  that  he 
would  institute  a  universal  resurrection, 
and  that  he  would  personally  rise  from 
the  dead  the  third  day  (Hos.  6:2;  Luke 
9:22). 

This  same  Bible  also  foretells  that 
he  will  come  to  the  earth  a  second 
time,  though  in  a  different  manner. 
The  first  time  he  came  as  a  man  of 
sorrows  who  was  acquainted  with  grief 
(Isa.  53:3),  but  the  second  time  he  will 
come  as  the  mighty  God  (Isa.  9:6). 
He  came  the  first  time  as  the  Prince 
of  Peace  (Isa.  9:6).  He  will  come  the 
second  time  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords  (Rev.  17:14).  He  came  the 
first  time  to  atone  for  our  sins;  he  will 
come  the  second  time  to  judge  those 
sinners  who  have  not  repented.  The 


20  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Apostle  Paul  says,  ".  .  .  the  Lord  Jesus 
shall  be  revealed  from  heaven  with  his 
mighty  angels, 

"In  flaming  fire  taking  vengeance  on 
them  that  know  not  God,  and  that 
obey  not  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ."  (2  Thess.  1:7-8.) 

Malachi  says,  ".  .  .  and  the  Lord, 
whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come  to 
his  temple.  .  .  . 

"But  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his 
coming?  and  who  shall  stand  when  he 
appeareth?"  (Mai.  3:1-2.)  And  we 
might  ask  ourselves,  who  indeed? 

According  to  the  divine  plan,  our 
earth  has  been  allotted  a  mortal  or 
temporal  existence  of  seven  thousand 
years,  patterned  after  the  seven  days  of 
creation.  The  first  four  thousand  years 
began  with  the  fall  of  Adam  and  ended 
at  the  birth  of  Christ.  But  1966  more 
years  have  come  and  gone  since  that 
time.  Therefore,  on  the  divine  calendar 
we  are  now  living  in  the  late  Saturday 
evening  of  time.  This  glorious  second 
coming  of  Christ  is  scheduled  to  usher 
in  the  earth's  Sabbath  of  a  thousand 
years,  known  to  the  prophets  as  the 
millennium.  During  this  period  Christ 
will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth. 
However,  before  this  can  happen,  the 
wicked  will  be  destroyed  by  fire  and 
Satan  will  be  bound.  At  Christ's  com- 
ing a  great  number  of  very  exciting 
things  are  going  to  take  place.  He  is 
not  coming  alone;  as  Paul  says,  he 
will  come  with  his  mighty  angels. 
(See  2  Thess.  1:7-8.)  At  his  coming 
a  great  many  of  the  faithful  dead  will 
be  resurrected  and  caught  up  to  meet 
the  Lord  in  the  air.  And  some  of  the 
righteous  who  are  then  living  upon 
the  earth  will  be  changed  from  mor- 
tality to  immortality  in  the  twinkling 
of  an  eye  to  join  that  impressive  com- 
pany in  the  air.  Certainly  this  is  some- 
thing to  look  forward  to.  (See  1  Thess. 
4:13-17.) 

At  the  time  of  Adam's  fall,  a  curse 
was  placed  upon  the  earth,  and  since 
then  it  has  existed  in  its  fallen  or 
telestial  state.  For  nearly  six  thousand 
years  it  has  brought  forth  thorns, 
thistles,  and  noxious  weeds,  while 
crime,  corruption,  war,  and  sin  have 
flourished  upon  its  face.  But  at  the 


First  Day 

second  coming  of  Christ,  the  earth  will 
be  cleansed  by  fire.  It  will  then  be 
renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal 
glory  as  it  is  raised  to  the  status  of  a 
terrestrial  sphere. 

On  the  last  Tuesday  of  the  Lord's 
life,  his  disciples  came  to  him  and 
said,  ".  .  .  what  shall  be  the  sign  of 
thy  coming,  and  of  the  end  of  the 
world?"  (Matt.  24:3.)  Jesus  warned 
them  of  the  great  wickedness  that 
would  exist  upon  the  earth  and  the 
deception  of  false  teachers.  He  said, 
".  .  .  then  shall  many  be  offended,  and 
shall  betray  one  another,  and  shall 
hate  one  another. 

"And  because  iniquity  shall  abound, 
the  love  of  many  shall  wax  cold." 
(Matt.  24:10,  12.) 

At  that  time  Jesus  said  some  rather 
uncomplimentary  things  about  us.  He 
said,  ".  .  .  as  the  days  of  Noe  were, 
so  shall  also  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
man  be."  (Matt.  24:37.)  Apparently 
Noah's  day  was  quite  a  day;  some  of 
its  chief  characteristics  were  the 
people's  lack  of  preparation  and  their 
disbelief  in  God.  As  in  our  own  day, 
the  antediluvians  thought  that  the 
heavens  were  sealed  and  that  God 
would  never  again  reveal  himself.  It 
must  have  sounded  a  little  bit  ridicu- 
lous to  them  when  on  a  warm  cloud- 
less day  Noah  prophesied  that  a  flood 
would  come  and  destroy  their  entire 
society  if  they  did  not  repent,  but  we 
are  in  a  similar  situation.  And  even 
though  the  combined  sins  of  Sodom, 
Babylon,  and  ancient  Rome  all  glare 
at  us  from  our  own  newspaper  head- 
lines, yet  we  are  far  from  changing  our 
ways.  Instead,  many  people  of  our  day 
are  contending  for  a  type  of  behavior 
that  condones  alcoholism,  immorality, 
and  a  wide  variety  of  deviations  from 
God's  laws. 

Signs  of  His  coming 

As  one  of  the  signs  that  would  pre- 
cede his  coming,  Jesus  said  that  there 
would  be  wars  and  rumors  of  wars, 
and  an  awful  hate  would  exist  among 
people.  He  said,  "For  nation  shall  rise 
against  nation,  and  kingdom  against 
kingdom:  and  there  shall  be  famines, 
and  pestilences,  and  earthquakes,  in 
divers  places."  (Matt.  24:7.) 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


21 


Dr.  Carl  Joachim  Hambro,  late 
president  of  the  League  of  Nations, 
said  that  in  World  War  I  alone,  thirty- 
five  million  human  beings  died  of 
starvation  and  epidemics.  But  that  is 
only  a  drop  in  the  bucket  compared 
to  the  possible  horror  and  mutilation 
of  present-day  war.  We  can  now  drop 
concentrated  fire  on  a  nation  and 
literally  roast  its  population.  War 
doesn't  solve  a  single  human  problem, 
and  yet  the  one  place  where  our  gen- 
eration excels  most  is  in  its  ability  to 
make  war.  Modern  war  is  undoubtedly 
the  most  highly  developed  of  all  of 
our  sciences.  Even  a  horrible  kind  of 
destructive  cold  war  now  seems  to  have 
become  a  fixed  part  of  our  unfortunate 
way  of  life.  But  sinful,  unstable  man 
now  holds  in  his  hands  the  ability  to 
destroy  everything  upon  the  earth  in 
just  a  few  hours.  Our  failure  has  been 
that  while  we  have  perfected  weapons, 
we  have  failed  to  perfect  the  men  who 
may  be  asked  to  use  them.  But  still 
there  is  no  letup  in  our  evil.  Like  the 
ancients,  we  can  discern  the  face  of 
the  sky,  but  we  fail  in  reading  the 
signs  of  the  times.  This  has  always 
been  one  of  the  world's  most  serious 
problems. 


The  Gospel  shall  be  preached 
for  a  witness 

On  the  Mount  of  Olives  the  Lord 
also  foretold  another  event  that  would 
precede  his  glorious  second  coming.  He 
said:  "And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for 
a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then 
shall  the  end  come."  (Matt.  24:14.) 
Angelic  messengers  with  authority 
from  God  have  been  sent  to  the  earth 
in  our  day  to  restore  the  simple  prin- 
ciples and  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
that  fulfill  this  prophecy.  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  again  been  estab- 
lished upon  the  earth,  built  upon  its 
necessary  foundation  of  apostles  and 
prophets.  (See  Eph.  2:19-20.) 

In  obedience  to  God's  command,  the 
world  has  also  been  given  three  great 
volumes  of  new  scripture  outlining  in 
every  detail  the  simple  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ.  These  modern 
scriptures  add  many  additional  pro- 
phetic statements  to  those  of  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments,  warning  us  to 
make  ourselves  ready  for  this  tremen- 
dous event  that  is  now  at  our  doors. 
May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


BISHOP  VICT 

Second  Counselor  in 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
grateful  to  be  here  today  and  to  par- 
ticipate in  this  great  conference.  I 
pray  that  what  I  shall  say  will  in 
some  way  be  helpful  in  lifting  the 
heavy  burdens  carried  by  some. 

Someone  has  written: 

MY  NAME  IS  LEGION 

"Within  my  earthly  temple,  there's  a 
crowd; 

There's  one  of  us  that's  humble,  one 

that's  proud, 
There's  one  that's  broken-hearted  for 

his  sins, 

There's  one  that  unrepentant  sits  and 
grins; 


R  L.  BROWN 

;e  Presiding  Bishopric 

There's  one  that  loves  his  neighbor  as 
himself, 

And  one  that  cares  for  naught  but 

fame  and  pelf. 
From  much  corroding  care,  I  should 

be  free 

If  I  could  once  determine  which  is 
me." 

(By  Edward  Sanford  Martin) 
Within  my  earthly  temple,  there's  a 
crowd.  There's  one  of  us  that's  hum- 
ble— one  that's  proud.  There's  one 
that's  brokenhearted  for  his  sins.  It  is 
these  to  whom  I  wish  to  address  my 
remarks  today. 

Hope  for  the  sinner 

It  seems  that  one  of  the  tragedies  of 
sin  is  that  once  a  mistake  has  been 


22  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

made,  many  feel  there  is  no  redemp- 
tion. Consequently,  they  continue  to 
live  in  error.  There  are  others  who, 
once  having  made  a  mistake,  repent, 
and  yet  carry  the  burden  of  guilt 
throughout  their  lives,  burying  it  deep 
in  their  hearts,  letting  it  tear  at  their 
secret  heartstrings  until  many  times, 
later  in  life,  they  find  it  impossible  to 
bear  any  longer.  This  often  results  in 
serious  psychological  problems.  They 
have  failed  to  realize  that  the  Lord, 
through  the  blessing  of  repentance, 
does  not  expect  this.  He  has  said: 

"Behold,  he  who  has  repented  of  his 
sins,  the  same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the 
Lord,  remember  them  no  more."  (D&C 
58:42.) 

The  essence  and  purpose  of  the 
Savior's  life  was  salvation — not  con- 
demnation. He  died  that  we  might 
live,  opening  the  way  to  eternal  life 
and  blessing  us  with  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  the  second  of  which  is  re- 
pentance. He  recognized  that  none  of 
us  is  perfect  nor  free  from  sin. 

Repentance  assures  salvation 

Many  times  the  principle  of  repen- 
tance is  not  fully  understood.  It  is  the 
blessing  of  hope  that  offers  each  of  us 
forgiveness. 

The  first  step  in  repentance  is  recog- 
nition and  sorrow  for  the  sin  commit- 
ted. Of  course,  if  we  are  brokenhearted 
for  our  sins,  we  have  recognized  them. 
This  sorrow  is  not  simply  remorse  and 
a  fleeting  twinge  of  conscience.  The 
sorrow  I  refer  to  has  no  mental  reser- 
vation, no  feeling  that  perhaps  our 
sins  are  not  so  gross  or  serious  after  all. 

Paul  said:  "For  godly  sorrow  work- 
eth  repentance  to  salvation.  .  .  :  but 
the  sorrow  of  the  world  worketh 
death."  (2  Cor.  7:10.)  This  kind  of 
sorrow  means  abandonment  of  the  sin. 
This  means  complete  cessation  from 
such  actions  from  that  point  forward. 

Confession  purges 

Another  vital  step  in  repentance  is 
confession.  The  Lord  said,  ".  .  .  I,  the 
Lord,  forgive  sins  unto  those  who  con- 
fess their  sins  before  me  and  ask  for- 
giveness, who  have  not  sinned  unto 
death."   (D&C  64:7.) 


First  Day 

The  Lord  retains  unto  himself  the 
right  to  judge  the  whole  man.  How- 
ever, in  the  ecclesiastical  order  of  his 
Church,  he  has  appointed  what  are 
known  as  common  judges  in  Israel, 
more  commonly  known  as  bishops. 

The  bishop  receives  the  confessions 
of  the  members  of  the  Church  when  a 
serious  sin  has  been  committed,  such 
as  one  involving  the  moral  law.  His 
authority  as  a  judge  has  to  do  with  the 
retention  of  the  individual's  full  fel- 
lowship in  the  Church.  He  has  been 
given  the  responsibility  to  forgive  as 
far  as  church  membership  is  con- 
cerned. The  Lord  is  the  only  one  who 
can  truly  forgive. 

Each  bishop  recognizes  his  special 
role  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord  in  as- 
sisting him  to  accomplish  his  purpose. 
He  said: 

"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses 
1:39.) 

The  bishop  knows  that  the  confes- 
sion received  from  a  member  of  his 
ward  is  a  sacred  trust.  He  does  not 
divulge  it  to  his  wife  or  any  other 
person.  A  bishop  who  violates  such  a 
sacred  confidence  is,  himself,  guilty  of 
an  offense  before  God,  the  Church, 
and  the  individual. 

We  sit  today  with  several  thousands 
of  these  wonderful  men  who  have  been 
called  and  ordained  by  proper  author- 
ity to  this  very  special  position  of 
bishop.  They  come  from  all  walks  of 
life.  They  span  many  years  in  age. 
They  are  your  neighbors  and  mine. 
They  have  grown  up  with  us.  Some  of 
them  have  grown  up  with  our  chil- 
dren, and  for  these  reasons  and  others, 
we  too  often  fail  to  recognize  them 
for  what  they  have  become.  At  the 
time  of  their  ordination  to  bishop, 
they  were  given  the  authority  to  act  as 
a  common  judge  within  the  boundaries 
of  their  wards.  They  were  given  the 
blessing  of  discernment,  wisdom,  and 
understanding.  They  were  counseled 
to  be  kind  and  thoughtful  in  their 
dealings  with  the  membership. 

Each  bishop  understands  fully  the 
following  scripture: 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


23 


"No  power  or  influence  can  or 
ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by 
long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness, 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an 
increase  of  love  toward  him  whom 
thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee 
to  be  his  enemy.  .  .  ."  (D&C  121:41- 
43.) 

Bishop,  the  spiritual  counselor 

As  already  stated,  the  bishop  is  the 
spiritual  counselor  to  his  people.  He  is 
the  one  to  whom  we  should  confess 
our  serious  transgressions.  He  is  not 
a  harsh  judge  but  rather  he  constantly 
asks  himself,  "What  would  the  Savior's 
judgment  be  in  this  case?"  If  we  are 
truly  repentant,  we  should  be  willing 
to  place  our  trust  in  him  and  follow 
his  guidance,  because,  after  all,  his 
whole  purpose  is  not  to  condemn  us 
but  to  help  us. 


May  the  Lord  bless  those  who  have 
transgressed,  that  they  may  understand 
his  love  for  them  and  the  blessings 
that  can  be  theirs  through  repentance, 
never  forgetting  that  the  Lord  himself 
has  said: 

"Behold,  he  who  has  repented  of  his 
sins,  the  same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the 
Lord,  remember  them  no  more." 
(D&C  58:42.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  my 
humble  witness  that  God  lives.  I  know 
it  with  all  the  fiber  of  my  being.  I 
know  that  he  loves  us,  and  I  know 
that  he  has  the  same  love  for  the  sin- 
ner as  for  the  Saint.  May  he  bless  us, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Brother  James  A.  Cullimore,  kindly 
come  to  the  stand  and  sit  among  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve. 

We  have  listened  to  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve;  Victor 
L.  Brown  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends, 
it  is  a  privilege  always  to  attend  the 
general  conferences  of  the  Church. 

Lehi's  vision 

My  message  is  taken  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon  account  of  the  vision  God 
gave  to  the  Prophet  Lehi,  who,  with 
his  family,  lived  in  Jerusalem  about 
600  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ. 
This  prophet  was  warned  concerning 
the  destruction  of  Jerusalem  by  invad- 
ing Babylonian  armies.  God  therefore 
commanded  Lehi  to  take  his  family 
and  a  small  select  group  and  to  depart 
from  the  city.  The  Lord  gave  assurance 
that  he  would  lead  them  to  a  promised 
land — the  Americas  as  we  know  them 
today.  These  families  belonged  to  the 
house  of  Israel,  and  Lehi  was  a  de- 


scendant of  that  Joseph  who  was  sold 
into  Egypt. 

After  their  departure  from  Jerusalem 
and  while  in  the  Valley  of  Lemuel, 
near  the  border  of  the  Red  Sea,  God 
blessed  the  prophet  with  an  inspiring 
vision.  (2  Ne.  8.)  In  this  vision  Lehi 
beheld  a  dark  and  dreary  wilderness. 
He  was  led  by  a  messenger  from  God, 
a  man  clothed  in  a  white  robe.  It 
seemed  to  Lehi  they  were  moving 
deeper  into  the  wilderness  of  darkness, 
and  he  therefore  earnestly  petitioned 
his  God  for  mercy.  Following  his  sup- 
plication the  dream  unfolded  to  his 
vision  important  and  significant  events. 
Lehi  beheld  a  large  and  spacious  field 
and  a  tree,  the  fruit  of  which  was 
desirable  to  make  one  happy.  He  went 
forth  and  partook  of  the  fruit  and  in 
ecstasy  declared  it  to  be  the  most 


24  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

sweet  above  all  that  he  had  before 
tasted.  When  Lehi  partook  of  the  fruit, 
he  described  it  as  filling  his  soul  with 
exceeding  joy,  and  he  therefore  desired 
that  his  family  should  partake  of  the 
fruit  also,  for  he  knew  it  was  most 
desirable  above  all  other  fruit.  As  he 
cast  his  eyes  about  to  discover  his 
family,  he  beheld  a  river  of  water  that 
ran  along  near  the  tree.  As  he  looked 
toward  the  source  of  the  stream,  he  saw 
his  wife,  Sariah,  and  two  of  his  sons, 
Nephi  and  Sam.  It  seemed  to  Lehi 
that  this  part  of  his  family  were  un- 
certain as  to  the  way  they  should  go. 
Being  anxious  about  the  welfare  of  his 
family,  he  beckoned  unto  them  to 
come  and  partake  of  the  fruit,  which 
invitation  they  willingly  accepted. 

Lehi  had  two  other  sons,  both  of 
whom  were  wayward.  He  was  desirous 
that  they  also  should  come  and  par- 
take of  the  fruit.  When  he  located 
them,  they  refused  his  invitation. 

As  the  vision  continued,  Lehi  beheld 
a  rod  of  iron  that  extended  along  the 
bank  of  the  river  and  led  to  the  tree 
by  which  he  stood.  He  also  beheld  a 
straight  and  narrow  path  that  paral- 
leled close  to  the  rod  of  iron  and  also 
led  to  the  tree  and  continued  on  to 
the  head  of  the  fountain  unto  a  large 
and  spacious  field,  as  if  it  were  a  world. 
Lehi  saw  numberless  concourses  of 
people,  many  of  whom  were  pressing 
forward  that  they  might  obtain  the 
path  that  led  to  the  tree  laden  with 
desirable  fruit.  Some  commenced  in 
the  path,  but  there  arose  a  mist  of 
darkness  of  exceeding  intensity  inso- 
much that  they  who  had  commenced 
in  the  path  did  lose  their  way  and 
wandered  off  and  were  lost. 

In  the  vision  Lehi  beheld  others 
pressing  forward,  and  they  caught  hold 
of  the  rod  of  iron  and  continued 
through  the  mists  of  darkness,  clinging 
to  the  rod  of  iron,  and  moved  along 
the  straight  and  narrow  path  until 
they  reached  the  tree  and  partook  of 
its  fruit.  After  partaking  of  the  fruit 
they  cast  their  eyes  about  as  if  they 
were  ashamed.  This  caused  Lehi  to 
wonder,  so  he  cast  his  eyes  round 
about  also  and  beheld  on  the  other 
side  of  the  river  a  great  and  spacious 


First  Day 

building.  It  was  filled  with  people, 
both  old  and  young,  both  male  and 
female,  who  were  well  dressed,  and 
they  were  in  the  attitude  of  mocking 
and  were  pointing  fingers  of  scorn 
toward  those  who  had  partaken  of  the 
fruit.  These  wavering  souls  had  made 
considerable  progress  toward  their  goal, 
but  they  could  not  withstand  the 
scoffing  of  the  multitudes  and  therefore 
they  fell  away  into  forbidden  paths 
and  were  lost. 

Lehi  saw  another  concourse  of 
people,  and  they  did  press  their  way 
forward,  continually  holding  fast  to 
the  rod  of  iron  until  they  reached  the 
tree  and  partook  of  its  fruit.  He  saw 
other  multitudes  feeling  their  way 
toward  that  great  and  spacious  build- 
ing. Many  strayed  and  were  drowned 
in  the  depths  of  the  fountain,  and 
others  were  lost  from  his  view,  wander- 
ing into  strange  roads.  Great  were  the 
multitudes  that  entered  the  strange 
building,  and  after  doing  so  they 
pointed  the  finger  of  scorn  and  did 
scoff  at  Lehi  and  the  others  who  were 
partaking  of  the  fruit.  ".  .  .  but,"  said 
Lehi,  "we  heeded  them  not."  (1  Ne. 
8:33.)  So  closed  the  vision  of  Lehi. 

The  vision  teaches: 

Now,  having  the  details  of  the  vision 
in  mind,  let  us  consider  the  teachings 
and  the  lessons  of  this  unusual  vision. 
We  learn  that  people  must  pray  for 
light  and  truth  to  know  the  way  to 
eternal  life  and  happiness.  Only  by 
humility  and  prayer,  with  a  heart  open 
to  truth,  can  one  escape  the  dominant 
influence  that  Satan  is  exerting  so 
strongly  and  effectively  today  in  all 
areas  of  the  world  to  destroy  the  souls 
of  men. 

Nephi,  the  son  of  Lehi,  although 
fully  believing  the  words  of  his  father 
regarding  his  vision,  was  nevertheless 
desirous  that  he  might  see  and  hear 
and  know  for  himself  of  those  things 
witnessed  by  his  father.  He  had  faith 
that  the  vision  of  his  father  could  be 
shown  him  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  Nephi  was  granted 
his  wish  after  he,  too,  had  humbly  and 
diligently  supplicated  the  Lord  in 
prayer  for  this  privilege. 


ELDER  DELBE 

An  angel  of  God  appeared  before 
Nephi  and  asked  if  he  knew  the  mean- 
ing of  the  tree  which  his  father  saw. 
Nephi  answered  in  the  affirmative, 
stating,  ".  .  .  it  is  the  love  of  God, 
which  sheddeth  itself  abroad  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men;  where- 
fore, it  is  the  most  desirable  above  all 
things."  And  the  angel  added,  "Yea, 
and  the  most  joyous  to  the  soul." 
(1  Ne.  11:22-23.) 

The  "Tree  of  Life"  a 
recurring  symbol 

The  tree  of  life  was  not  unknown 
to  the  descendants  of  Lehi,  part  of 
whom  are  the  Indian  tribes  of  the 
Americas,  for  it  is  found  in  the  pictorial 
hieroglyphics  that  were  carved  upon 
rocks  in  regions  of  the  past  civilizations 
of  Lehi's  posterity.  The  tree  of  life  is 
not  something  new  taught  in  our  day, 
for  there  are  many  references  to  it  in 
the  scriptures.  The  significance  of  this 
representation  may  not  be  understood 
fully,  except  by  few,  yet  it  has  real 
and  important  spiritual  value.  In  the 
book  of  Revelation  (2:7)  we  learn  that 
"the  tree  of  life  ...  is  in  the  midst  of 
the  paradise  of  God."  In  Genesis  2:9 
we  are  informed  that  a  tree  of  life  was 
placed  by  God  in  the  midst  of  the 
Garden  of  Eden.  Adam  and  Eve  were 
privileged  to  partake  of  the  fruit  of 
this  tree  until  they  transgressed  God's 
law.  Thereafter  the  fruit  of  the  tree 
was  denied  them;  if  they  had  par- 
taken, they  would  have  lived  forever  in 
their  fallen  state.  Death  was  in  the 
great  plan  of  God,  and  the  hope  of 
man  became  centered  in  Jesus  Christ, 
who  gave  his  life  on  Calvary  to  redeem 
and  save  man  from  the  effects  of  the 
fall. 

Alma,  a  Nephite  prophet,  quotes  the 
Christ  as  saying,  "Come  unto  me  and 
ye  shall  partake  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree 
of  life  "  (Al.  5:34.) 

John  the  Revelator,  speaking  of  the 
tree  of  life  in  the  New  Jerusalem  that 
is  to  come  down  from  heaven,  said: 
"Blessed  are  they  that  do  his  com- 
mandments, that  they  may  have  right 
to  the  tree  of  life,  and  may  enter  in 
through  the  gates  into  the  city."  (Rev. 
22:14.) 


J  L.  STAPLEY  25 

Lehi  taught  there  must  be  an  oppo- 
sition in  all  things.  ".  .  .  even  the  for- 
bidden fruit  in  opposition  to  the  tree 
of  life;  the  one  being  sweet  and  the 
other  bitter."  (2  Ne.  2:15.) 

Nephi  advises,  "Wherefore,  the 
wicked  are  rejected  from  the  righteous, 
and  also  from  that  tree  of  life,  whose 
fruit  is  most  precious  and  most  desir- 
able above  all  other  fruits;  yea,  and  it 
is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God." 
(1  Ne.  15:36.) 

"The  rod  of  iron" 

Nephi  learned  from  the  angel  that 
the  rod  of  iron  seen  by  his  father  was 
the  word  of  God,  which  word,  if  ac- 
cepted and  lived,  will  lead  mankind 
to  the  tree  of  life  and  to  the  fountain 
of  living  waters,  which  waters  are  a 
representation  of  the  love  of  God. 
Nephi  beheld  also  that  the  tree  of  life 
is  a  representation  of  the  love  of  God. 

Man's  duty,  therefore,  is  to  seek 
earnestly  for  the  word  of  the  Lord;  and 
when  he  finds  it,  if  he  is  sincere  in 
his  desires,  he  will  enter  into  that 
straight  and  narrow  path  that  will  take 
him  to  the  tree  of  life  where  he  can 
partake  of  the  fruit  thereof.  Remaining 
true,  he  will  not  fall  into  the  byways 
of  wickedness  and  sin  but  continue  on 
to  the  eternal  mansions  prepared  of 
God  for  the  faithful  and  worthy  of  his 
children. 

Other  symbols 

The  river  of  water  spoken  of  in  the 
vision  represents  filthiness.  The  mists 
of  darkness  are  the  temptations  of  the 
devil,  which  blind  the  eyes  and  harden 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  and 
lead  them  away  into  broad  roads, 
where  they  perish  and  become  lost. 
The  great  and  spacious  building  was 
the  pride  of  the  world  which  fell  and, 
said  the  angel,  "Thus  shall  be  the 
destruction  of  all  nations,  kindreds, 
tongues,  and  people,  that  shall  fight 
against  the  twelve  apostles  of  the 
Lamb."  (1  Ne.  11:36.)  The  building 
was  filled  with  human  beings — fools 
and  scoffers — who,  with  their  ribaldry, 
succeeded  in  making  apostates  and 
transgressors  of  some  of  those  who  had 
tasted  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  life. 


26  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

The  inmates  of  the  building  delighted 
in  mocking  and  scoffing  at  those  who 
desired  to  do  right. 

Inasmuch  as  Laman  and  Lemuel  did 
not  partake  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of 
life,  Lehi  feared  lest  they  would  be 
cast  off  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord 
forever.  As  their  father,  he  had  great 
concern  for  their  eternal  welfare,  and 
his  love  was  manifest  in  his  exhorta- 
tion to  them  with  all  the  feeling  of  a 
tender  parent,  that  they  would  hearken 
unto  his  words  and  not  be  cast  off. 

Parable  of  the  Sower 

The  parable  of  Jesus  dealing  with 
the  sower  who  went  forth  to  sow 
parallels  in  teaching  the  lessons  given 
Lehi  in  the  vision  that  I  have  de- 
scribed. (Matt.  13:1-9.)  The  Savior, 
after  applying  the  parable  of  the  sower 
to  those  whom  he  was  teaching,  in- 
terpreted it  to  the  understanding  of  his 
disciples  by  saying: 

"When  any  one  heareth  the  word  of 
the  kingdom,  and  understandeth  it  not, 
then  cometh  the  wicked  one,  and 
catcheth  away  that  which  was  sown  in 
his  heart.  This  is  he  which  received 
seed  by  the  wayside. 

"But  he  that  received  the  seed  into 
the  stony  places,  the  same  is  he  that 
heareth  the  word,  and  anon  with  joy 
receiveth  it; 

"Yet  hath  he  not  root  in  himself, 
but  dureth  for  a  while:  for  when 
tribulation  or  persecution  ariseth  be- 
cause of  the  word,  by  and  by  he  is 
offended. 

"He  also  that  received  seed  among 
the  thorns  is  he  that  heareth  the  word; 
and  the  care  of  this  world,  and  the 
deceitfulness  of  riches,  choke  the  word, 
and  he  becometh  unfruitful. 

"But  he  that  received  seed  into  the 
good  ground  is  he  that  heareth  the 
word,  and  understandeth  it;  which  also 
beareth  fruit,  and  bringeth  forth,  some 
an  hundred  fold,  some  sixty,  some 
thirty."  (Matt.  13:19-23.) 

"The  Power  of  God  unto  Salvation" 

The  Apostle  Paul  declared  that  he 
was  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  because,  said  he,  "it  is  the 


First  Day 

power  of  God  unto  salvation.  .  .  ." 
(Rom.  1:16.) 

No  man,  following  the  example  and 
dedication  of  the  Christ,  should  be- 
come ashamed  or  afraid  of  his  true 
Christian  status  and  lack  courage  and 
strength,  in  the  face  of  opposition  or 
the  taunting  of  men,  to  remain  true, 
firm,  and  steadfast  to  his  conviction 
of  what  is  right  in  the  sight  of  God. 
This  life  is  a  probationary  state 
wherein  men  and  women  are  tried  and 
proven  in  the  crucible  of  mortal 
existence. 

The  vision  of  Lehi  and  the  parable 
of  the  sower  presented  by  the  Christ 
suggest  the  weaknesses  of  men  and  the 
many  avenues  of  personal  indifference, 
lack  of  faith,  wickedness,  and  sin 
which,  if  left  uncontrolled,  will  de- 
stroy their  very  souls  and  lead  them 
down  to  the  depths  of  hell. 

Lehi's  love  and  concern  for  the 
eternal  welfare  and  happiness  of  his 
family  is  applicable  to  all  parents. 
They  too,  feelingly,  kindly,  and  in 
love,  must  give  children  the  oppor- 
tunity of  good  moral  and  spiritual 
teaching  and  training  with  righteous 
and  ethical  parental  example  in  order 
to  create  the  desire  and  the  strength 
within  their  children's  hearts  to  love 
God  and  to  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments. 

The  pitfalls  of  temptation  and  evil 
today  are  many.  These  evils  are  dressed 
up  attractively  and  cunningly  to  de- 
ceive the  very  elect.  Unless  parents 
and  youth  are  grounded  in  the  basics 
of  good  behavior  and  the  fundamental 
principles  and  standards  of  the  gospel, 
which  is  the  true  Christian  way  of  life, 
they  can  stumble  and  fall  by  the  way- 
side and  thus  never  reach  the  goal  of 
eternal  life. 

The  teachings  of  Lehi,  his  son 
Nephi,  the  Apostle  Paul,  and  Jesus,  to 
which  I  have  referred,  are  guidelines 
and  directions  toward  the  tree  of  life. 
The  vision  of  Lehi  blesses  all  of  us 
with  its  understanding  of  God's  pur- 
poses for  his  children  and  the  respon- 
sibility of  parents  to  their  families. 
The  Church  and  its  families  are 
synonymous:  one  does  not  exist  without 
the  other,  and  both  serve  each  other, 
and  all  belong  to  God  the  Father. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


27 


The  vision  of  Lehi  summarized 

Now  in  closing  I  wish  to  summarize 
the  vision  of  Lehi  with  the  following 
brief  comments: 

Dreams  or  visions  are  often  used  as 
a  teaching  principle,  unfolding  the 
secrets  of  heaven  to  the  prepared  mind 
and  prayerful  heart. 

The  love  of  God  suggests  the  good 
and  wholesome  things  of  life. 

The  tree  of  life  is  indicative  of 
eternal  life — or  celestial  life — life  in 
the  full  enjoyment  of  God's  love. 

The  fountain  of  living  waters  is 
representative  of  the  love  of  God.  All 
spiritual  graces  and  refreshment  com- 
municated by  the  Spirit  are  compared 
to  a  fountain.  We  learn  from  Jere- 
miah, ".  .  .  they  have  forsaken  the 
Lord,  the  fountain  of  living  waters." 
(Jer.  17:13.) 

God,  then,  is  called  the  fountain  of 
living  waters.  The  Savior  taught  that 
those  who  drink  of  it  shall  never 
thirst. 

The  numberless  concourses  of  people 
seen  by  Lehi  in  his  vision  represent 
the  different  races  of  men  on  earth. 

The  river  of  water,  which  is  repre- 
sentative of  the  filthiness  of  sin, 
wickedness,  and  contamination,  sepa- 
rates the  wicked  from  the  tree  of  life 
and  from  the  Saints  of  God  and  is  a 
prototype  of  the  condition  called  hell. 

Notwithstanding  the  numerous  in- 
stitutions of  secular  and  theological 
learning,  the  human  family,  by  and 
large,  are  groping  in  the  mists  of  moral 
and  spiritual  darkness.  Sin  and  vice, 
prideful  exaltation  of  the  human  mind, 
and  the  pursuit  of  harmful  pleasures 
blur  men's  perception,  dull  their  sense 
of  values,  and  obscure  their  vision  of 
the  rod  of  iron,  or  the  word  of  God, 
which  alone  leads  to  eternal  life. 

The  great  and  spacious  building,  in 
addition  to  representing  the  pride  and 
vain  imaginations  of  men,  stands  for 
the  mockery  and  ridicule  of  the  world. 
Our  generation  should  be  reminded 
that  scoffers  are  far  from  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Those  who  allow  the  ridicule 
of  men  to  make  them  embarrassed  by 
the  cause,  the  standards,  or  the  obliga- 
tions that  they  have  espoused  as  true 
followers  of  Christ,  and  are  turned 


thereby  from  the  straight  and  narrow 
path  of  truth  and  righteousness,  are 
those  who  form  the  stony  ground  in 
which  the  seed  sown  soon  withers  and 
dies.  Those  who  are  drowned  in  the 
depths  of  the  fountain  refer  to  those 
who  are  engulfed  in  the  quagmire  of 
evil-mindedness,  sin,  and  corruption; 
therefore,  the  wicked  sink  to  destruc- 
tion in  the  river  of  filth,  and  the 
depths  thereof  are  the  depths  of  hell. 

Passing  through  the  mist  and  cling- 
ing steadfastly  to  the  iron  rod,  the 
faithful  pass  triumphantly  through  the 
temptations  that  beset  man's  mortal 
pilgrimage  to  the  cherished  goal  of 
eternal  life  with  God. 

In  man's  search  for  happiness  and 
his  climb  to  eternal  joy,  there  can  be 
no  relaxation,  no  deviation  from  the 
straight  and  narrow  path;  nor  can  he 
lose  a  firm  hold  upon  the  iron  rod, 
which  is  the  word  of  God.  He  must 
set  aside  the  things  of  the  world  as  he 
travels  the  path  which  leads  to  exalta- 
tion and  glory  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  the  truthfulness  of  these 
things.  I  know  the  teachings  of  this 
vision  are  important  to  us  and  to  all 
the  world.  May  God  bless  us  that  we 
may  so  live  and  set  the  type  of  example 
that  will  incline  the  hearts  of  men  and 
women  to  the  restored  Church  of  our 
Lord,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

President  McKay  would  like  me  on 
his  behalf,  and  behalf  of  all  of  us,  to 
congratulate  and  thank  very  heartily 
Sister  Smith  and  this  wonderful  group 
of  young  singers.  The  music  they  have 
rendered  has  been  an  inspiration,  and 
their  contribution  has  been  really  re- 
markable to  the  spirit  of  this  occasion. 

The  chorus  will  now  sing  a  group  of 
Primary  songs:  "I  Think  When  I  Read 
That  Sweet  Story,"  "Lovely  Appear," 
and  "I  Am  A  Child  of  God."  After  the 
singing  Elder  S.  Reed  Dayton,  presi- 
dent of  the  Montpelier  Stake,  will  pro- 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

nounce  the  benediction  and  this 
conference  will  be  adjourned  until  2:00 
this  afternoon. 


Selections  "I  Think  When  I  Read 
that  Sweet  Story,"  "Lovely  Appear," 


First  Day 

and  "I  Am  a  Child  of  God,"  by  the 
Primary  Children's  Chorus,  Mary 
Ellen  Smith,  conductor,  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner,  at  the  organ. 

Elder  S.  Reed  Dayton,  president  of 
Montpelier  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  at  2  p.m. 
Wednesday,  April  6,  1966. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  with  John  R.  Halliday  con- 
ducting and  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided, 
and  his  counselor,  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  conducted  the  services. 
President  Smith  made  the  following 
opening  remarks: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  sec- 
ond general  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-sixth  Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

President  David  O.  McKay  is  here 
on  the  stand,  and  others  of  the  breth- 
ren, and  has  asked  that  I  conduct  this 
session. 

Through  the  generous  cooperation  of 
their  owners  and  managers,  a  total  of 
185  television  stations  and  30  radio 
stations  will  carry  to  practically  every 
state  in  the  Union,  and  to  many  for- 
eign countries,  the  proceedings  of  some 
sessions  of  this  Conference.  These  sta- 
tions are  located  from  coast  to  coast. 
The  names  of  the  stations  carrying  the 
proceedings  of  this  session  were  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audience  just  prior  to  the  opening  of 
this  meeting.  We  appreciate  the 
courtesy  and  these  owners  and  man- 


agers in  broadcasting  the  programs  of 
this  Conference. 

These  services  are  also  being  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  tele- 
vision. Those  who  are  standing  in  the 
doorways  may  possibly  find  seats  in 
that  building. 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  over- 
flowing this  Wednesday  afternoon, 
and  probably  many  thousands  have 
tuned  in  on  their  radios  and  tele- 
visions. President  McKay  joins  us  in 
extending  a  hearty  welcome  to  our 
television  and  radio  audience,  and  to 
all  who  are  gathered  in  this  historic 
Tabernacle. 

We  acknowledge  with  appreciation 
the  presence  of  our  stake  presidencies, 
high  councilmen,  bishopric,  temple 
presidents,  general  auxiliary  officers, 
patriarchs,  and  others. 

We  also  extend  a  hearty  welcome 
and  express  satisfaction  and  pleasure 
in  the  attendance  of  special  guests  and 
prominent  men  in  the  Nation  and 
State. 

This  afternoon  we  are  favored  by  the 
presence  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  John 
R.  Halliday  conducting,  and  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
choruses  singing:  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 
conducted  by  Brother  Halliday. 

The  invocation  will  then  be  offered 
by  Elder  William  B.  Martin,  president 
of  the  Oquirrh  East  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses  sang  "The  Lord's 
Prayer." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


29 


Elder  William  B.  Martin,  president 
of  the  Oquirrh  East  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses  will  now  favor  us 
with  "Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion,"  con- 
ducted by  John  R.  Halliday. 


After  the  singing,  we  shall  hear  from 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  who  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  afternoon. 


Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "Arise, 
O  Glorious  Zion." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  Latter-day  Saints  bear  testimony 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the 
world.  He  is  the  Redeemer  and  the 
Messiah.  He  is  the  divine  Son  of  God 
and  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth. 
Amid  persecution  and  great  opposition 
he  fulfilled  his  mortal  ministry  and 
brought  about  the  atonement  for  all 
mankind.  When  he  died  on  the  cross, 
the  heavens  mourned,  as  did  his 
disciples  among  the  common  people 
who  believed  in  him.  And  yet,  his 
enemies  rejoiced,  feeling  that  in  deliv- 
ering him  to  the  Roman  executioners, 
they  had  accomplished  a  great  victory. 

Christ  the  victor 

But  Christ  was  the  real  victor.  On 
the  third  day  after  his  crucifixion  he 
came  forth  from  the  tomb  in  a  glorious 
physical  resurrection.  The  same  body 
that  was  crucified  now  arose,  no  more 
to  die,  opening  the  door  to  a  resurrec- 
tion for  us  all. 

He  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life" 

But  Christ  means  more  than  resur- 
rection, more  than  our  hopes  for 
immortality.  He  not  only  said,  "I  am 
the  resurrection,  .  .  ."  but  he  also  said, 
"I  am  ...  the  life  .  .  ."  (John  11:25.) 
He  spoke  of  a  particular  way  of  life, 
which  he  himself  represented.  It  is  a 
way  to  live,  a  way  by  which  each  of  us 
may  pattern  our  daily  habits  after  his 
high  principles.  It  is  the  perfect  plan 
for  human  relationships.  It  will  do 
away  with  man's  inhumanity  to  man, 
whether  in  our  homes,  in  our  neighbor- 
hoods, or  in  the  world  at  large. 


It  was  not  his  intention  that  we 
merely  have  a  mental  acceptance  of 
him  and  then  conduct  our  personal 
affairs  to  suit  our  own  selfish  purposes. 
His  way  of  life  provides  that  we  shall 
rearrange  our  habits  and  readjust  our 
standards  in  harmony  with  his  teach- 
ings. Otherwise,  of  what  value  is 
Christianity? 

He  taught  us  to  overcome  our 
prejudices  and  enmities,  for  all  human 
difficulties  can  be  overcome  through 
the  application  of  Christlike  love. 

One  of  the  greatest  of  all  Christian 
principles  is  given  by  him  in  the  Ser- 
mon on  the  Mount.  He  said,  "Ye  have 
heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  and  hate 
thine  enemy. 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your 
enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do 
good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray 
for  them  which  despitefully  use  you, 
and  persecute  you: 

"That  ye  may  be  the  children  of 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  .  .  . 

"For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you, 
what  reward  have  ye?  do  not  even  the 
publicans  the  same? 

"And  if  ye  salute  your  brethren  only, 
what  do  ye  more  than  others?  do  not 
even  the  publicans  so?"  (Matt.  5:43- 
47.) 

Again  he  said:  ".  .  .  if  thou  bring 
thy  gift  to  the  altar,  and  there  remem- 
berest  that  thy  brother  hath  ought 
against  thee; 

"Leave  there  thy  gift  before  the 
altar,  and  go  thy  way;  first  be  recon- 
ciled to  thy  brother,  and  then  come 
and  offer  thy  gift."  (Matt.  5:23-24.) 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

He  also  taught:  ".  .  .  if  ye  forgive 
men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly 
Father  will  also  forgive  you: 

"But  if  ye  forgive  not  men  their 
trespasses,  neither  will  your  Father 
forgive  your  trespasses."  (Matt.  6:14- 
15.) 

Continuing  his  outline  for  good 
human  relationships,  he  said,  "Judge 
not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

"Why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that 
is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but  considerest 
not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye?" 

".  .  .  first  cast  out  the  beam  out  of 
thine  own  eye;  and  then  shalt  thou  see 
clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy 
brother's  eye."  (Matt.  7:1,  3,  5.) 

Good  will  among  men 

These  and  many  similar  teachings 
formed  his  program  for  goodwill 
among  men.  It  is  the  only  foundation 
for  a  lasting  peace. 

As  Christians  we  never  yet  have  ac- 
cepted the  true  meaning  of  his  title, 
the  Prince  of  Peace. 

Then  are  we  truly  Christians?  Do 
we  really  follow  him?  Are  we  willing 
to  adopt  his  principles  and  live  them? 
The  peace  of  Christ  is  attainable  in 
the  world.  He  does  not  command  the 
impossible. 

If  it  were  not  within  the  realm  of 
both  possibility  and  reason  to  love  our 
neighbors  as  ourselves,  he  would  not 
have  commanded  it. 

If  it  were  not  possible  to  love  our 
enemies,  he  would  not  have  com- 
manded it. 

If  it  were  not  possible  for  us  to  turn 
the  other  cheek,  to  go  the  extra  mile, 
to  give  our  coat  and  our  cloak  also,  he 
would  not  have  commanded  it. 

If  it  were  not  possible  for  mankind 
to  reconcile  their  differences  in  the 
spirit  of  brotherhood,  mercy,  and  kind- 
ness, he  would  not  have  commanded 
it. 

Was  he  dealing  in  mere  verbiage 
when  he  gave  the  Beatitudes?  Was  he 
talking  to  modern  Christians  as  well  as 
to  those  of  his  own  day  when  he  said: 
"Blessed  are  the  peacemakers,  for  they 
shall  be  called  the  children  of  God"? 
(Matt.  5:9.)  Can  any  others  be  the 
children  of  God? 


First  Day 

Christ  is  the  Prince  of  Peace.  But 
his  peace  will  not  come  unless  we  live 
his  teachings. 

He  is  our  Savior,  but  he  cannot  save 
us  if  we  refuse  to  do  what  he  says. 

Christians  of  today  must  reassess  the 
depth  of  their  allegiance  to  Christ.  It 
does  no  good  to  honor  him  with  our 
lips  if  our  hearts  are  far  from  him. 

If  there  is  one  thing  more  than 
another  that  the  Lord  despises,  it  is 
hypocrisy.  None  in  his  day  received 
the  condemnation  that  he  heaped  upon 
the  hypocritical  professors  of  piety  who, 
he  said,  ".  .  .  make  clean  the  outside 
of  the  cup  and  of  the  platter,  but 
within  they  are  full  of  extortion  and 
excess"  and  ".  .  .  are  like  unto  whited 
sepulchres,  which  indeed  appear  beau- 
tiful outward,  but  are  within  full  of 
dead  men's  bones  and  of  all  unclean- 
ness."  (Matt.  23:25,  27.) 

The  writer  of  the  Proverbs  said: 

"These  six  things  doth  the  Lord 
hate:  yea,  seven  are  an  abomination 
unto  him: 

"A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue,  and 
hands  that  shed  innocent  blood, 

"An  heart  that  deviseth  wicked 
imaginations,  feet  that  be  swift  in 
running  to  mischief, 

"A  false  witness  that  speaketh  lies, 
and  he  that  soweth  discord  among 
brethren."  (Prov.  6:16-19.) 

If  there  is  anything  basic  to  Chris- 
tianity, it  is  honesty  and  sincerity. 

It  is  also  fair  dealing  and  due  regard 
for  one's  fellowman. 

It  is  doing  to  others  as  we  ourselves 
would  be  done  by. 

It  is  compassion  and  mercy. 

It  is  a  willingness  to  aid  the  down- 
trodden, to  care  for  the  orphan  and 
the  widow  in  their  affliction,  and  to 
keep  oneself  unspotted  from  the  sins 
of  the  world. 

There  is  no  true  Christianity  without 
good  feelings  toward  our  fellowmen. 

Is  it  surprising  then  that  the  Beloved 
Apostle  John  taught:  "If  a  man  say, 
I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he 
is  a  liar:  for  he  that  loveth  not  his 
brother  whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can 
he  love  God  whom  he  hath  not  seen? 

"And  this  commandment  have  we 
from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God 


ELDER  MARK 

love  his  brother  also."  (1  John  4:20- 
21.) 

That  is  why  the  Savior  said  that  the 
second  great  commandment  is  to  love 
our  neighbors  as  ourselves. 

That  is  why  John  said  further:  "He 
that  loveth  not  knoweth  not  God;  for 
God  is  love."  (1  John  4:8.) 

And  that  is  why  Paul's  words  were 
translated  to  read: 

"Though  I  speak  with  the  tongues 
of  men  and  of  angels,  and  have  not 
[love],  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass 
or  a  tinkling  cymbal. 

"And  though  I  have  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  and  understand  all  mysteries, 
and  all  knowledge;  and  though  I  have 
all  faith,  so  that  I  could  remove  moun- 
tains, and  have  not  [love],  I  am 
nothing. 

"And  though  I  bestow  all  my  goods 
to  feed  the  poor,  and  though  I  give  my 
body  to  be  burned,  and  have  not 
[love],  it  profiteth  me  nothing."  (1 
Cor.  13:1-3.) 

And  that  is  why  Jesus  said:  ".  .  .  in 
vain  they  do  worship  me"  as  he  spoke 
of  those  who  give  him  lip  service,  but 
whose  hearts  are  far  from  him.  (Matt. 
15:9.) 

"Weightier  matters" 

The  Savior  constantly  emphasized 
the  "weightier  matters"  of  the  law,  and 
they  were  not  the  rituals  nor  an  out- 
ward appearance  of  piety. 

They  were  the  Christian  acts  that 
characterized  the  Good  Samaritan; 
they  were  the  expressions  of  what  some 
have  called  the  "milk  of  human  kind- 
ness." 

Note  his  description  of  the  Judgment 
Day: 

"When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come 
in  his  glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels 
with  him,  then  shall  he  sit  upon  the 
throne  of  his  glory: 

"And  before  him  shall  be  gathered 
all  nations:  and  he  shall  separate  them 
one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd 
divideth  his  sheep  from  the  goats: 

"And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his 
right  hand,  but  the  goats  on  the  left. 

"Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them 
on  his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of 
my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  pre- 


E.  PETERSEN  31 

pared  for  you  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world: 

"For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave 
me  meat:  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye  gave  me 
drink:  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took 
me  in: 

"Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me:  I  was 
sick,  and  ye  visited  me:  I  was  in  prison, 
and  ye  came  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  the  righteous  answer 
him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee 
an  hungred,  and  fed  thee?  or  thirsty, 
and  gave  thee  drink? 

"When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and 
took  thee  in?  or  naked,  and  clothed 
thee? 

"Or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in 
prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

"And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say 
unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inas- 
much as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  he  say  also  unto  them 
on  the  left  hand,  Depart  from  me,  ye 
cursed,  into  everlasting  fire,  prepared 
for  the  devil  and  his  angels: 

"For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave 
me  no  meat;  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye 
gave  me  no  drink: 

"I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me 
not  in:  naked,  and  ye  clothed  me  not: 
sick,  and  in  prison,  and  ye  visited  me 
not. 

"Then  shall  they  also  answer  him 
saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee  an 
hungred,  or  athirst,  or  a  stranger,  or 
naked,  or  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  did 
not  minister  unto  thee? 

"Then  shall  he  answer  them,  saying, 
Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  as  ye 
did  it  not  to  one  of  the  least  of  these, 
ye  did  it  not  to  me. 

"And  these  shall  go  away  into  ever- 
lasting punishment:  but  the  righteous 
into  life  eternal."  (Matt.  25:31-46.) 

True  Christianity  the  world's 
real  need 

True  Christianity  is  all  this  world 
really  needs.  It  is  the  remedy  for  all 
our  ills.  It  can  cure  all  our  troubles. 
But  it  takes  faith,  and  works,  and  much 
of  both. 


32 

Wednesday,  April  6 

It  requires  a  new  view  of  Christianity 
on  the  part  of  all,  and  a  greater  wil- 
lingness to  accept  it  and  to  live  it. 

When  we  see  the  present  widespread 
disregard  of  the  basic  teachings  of  the 
Master,  we  begin  to  wonder  just  how 
many  Christians  there  really  are  in  the 
world. 

Are  we  Christian  if  we  are  unfair  to 
our  neighbors?  Are  we  Christian  if  we 
are  dishonest,  or  if  we  resort  to  schem- 
ing, deceit,  and  duplicity?  Are  we  really 
Christian  if  we  find  no  place  in  our 
lives  for  the  Golden  Rule? 

We  "Christians"  need  to  take  a  new 
look  at  true  Christianity  and  ask  our- 
selves if  we  are  willing  to  become 
genuine  disciples  of  the  Savior.  True 
disciples  will  follow  him  and  will  do 
his  will.  Hereby  may  we  know  that 
we  love  him — if  we  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

Jesus  is  the  Christ.  He  is  the  Son  of 
God.  He  is  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
but  he  will  not  save  us  if  we  do  not 
live  the  Golden  Rule.  He  will  not  save 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

us  if  we  do  not  understand  and  live 
the  law  of  charity.  He  will  not  save  us 
if  we  reject  the  second  great  command- 
ment, "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour 
as  thyself."  (Matt.  22:39.) 

It  is  my  earnest  hope  and  prayer  that 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  as 
Christians  throughout  the  world,  may 
really  learn  to  know  the  Christ  and 
know  that  the  weightier  matters  of  the 
law  are  the  matters  that  will  really 
save  us,  and  for  this  I  earnestly  pray 
in  the  sacred  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

We  shall  hear  now  from  Elder 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  an  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 

Elder  Burton 


ELDER  THEODt 

Assistant  to  the  Couna 

Following  the  resurrection  of  Jesus, 
two  followers  of  Jesus  traveled  along 
the  road  to  Emmaus  discussing  his 
crucifixion.  The  resurrected  Lord  drew 
near  and  joined  them,  but  since  their 
spiritual  eyes  were  closed,  they  did  not 
recognize  him.  He  walked  along  the 
way  with  them,  listening  to  what  they 
said,  then  asked  them  to  explain  what 
they  were  talking  about.  One  of  them 
named  Cleopas  answered  him,  telling 
him  how  Jesus  of  Nazareth  had  been 
taken  by  the  chief  priests  and  rulers 
and  slain  before  their  eyes.  Cleopas 
said  they  had  hoped  that  this  great 
prophet  might  be  the  one  to  redeem 
Israel.  However,  he  had  died  three  days 
ago,  though  certain  women  had  re- 
ported they  had  seen  an  angel  who 
told  them  that  Jesus  was  alive.  This 
they  could  not  understand,  and  they 
were  sad  and  discouraged  at  what  had 
happened.  Then  Jesus  said  to  them: 

"O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  be- 


RE  M.  BURTON 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

lieve  all  that  the  prophets  have 
spoken: 

"Ought  not  Christ  to  have  suffered 
these  things,  and  to  enter  into  his 
glory? 

"And  beginning  at  Moses  and  all  the 
prophets,  he  expounded  unto  them  in 
all  the  scriptures  the  things  concerning 
himself."  (Luke  24:25-27.) 

He  died  that  we  might  live 

How  profitably  might  we  restudy 
the  scriptures  to  know  the  full  meaning 
of  that  sacrifice  made  by  Jesus  in  re- 
deeming us  from  death.  Jesus  died  for 
all  men,  that  all  men  might  be  made 
alive  again  as  taught  by  Paul: 

"But  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the 
dead,  and  become  the  first  fruits  of 
them  that  slept. 

"For  since  by  man  came  death,  by- 
man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


33 


in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive." 
(1  Cor.  15:20-22.) 

He  redeemed  all  men 

By  his  death  Jesus  redeemed  all  men, 
women,  and  children  born  upon  this 
earth,  that  in  him  they  all  would  be 
made  alive  again.  Jesus,  however,  did 
more  than  just  redeem  us  from  death 
and  the  grave.  He  came  into  the  world 
not  only  to  redeem  mankind  from 
death,  but  to  exalt  all  men  and  women 
who  would  make  a  covenant  to  accept 
him  as  their  Savior  and  keep  that 
covenant  to  the  very  end  of  their  lives. 

This  doctrine  was  to  extend  world- 
wide and  be  valid  throughout  all  time 
as  shown  by  the  charge  Jesus  gave  his 
ordained  ministry: 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world.  Amen." 
(Matt.  28:19-20.  Italics  added.) 

The  promise  beyond  the  grave 

This  statement  stretched  the  promise 
even  beyond  the  grave  so  that  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  and  every  other 
earthly  ordinance  necessary  for  exalta- 
tion could  be  performed  by  living 
persons  authorized  to  do  this  work 
vicariously  for  those  that  were  dead. 
That  this  practice  was  used  by  the 
early  Christians  is  made  clearly  evident 
when  Paul  used  this  ordinance  work  as 
an  additional  evidence  of  the  actuality 
of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead,  for 
Paul  argued: 

"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all?  why  are  they  then  baptized 
for  the  dead?"  (1  Cor.  15:29.) 

Well  might  we  ask  this  same  ques- 
tion of  every  person  now  living  and 
ask  why  this  early  Christian  practice 
was  neglected  until  130  years  ago  when 
the  great  sealing  power  of  Elijah  was 
again  returned  to  the  earth.  It  was 
part  of  early  Christian  doctrine  as 
taught  by  Peter,  who  said  that  the 
quickened  or  resurrected  Jesus  preached 


the  gospel  of  exaltation  to  the  spirits 
of  those  who  were  dead  so  that  they 
might  be  judged  like  the  living  if  they 
would  accept  this  work  done  for  them 
by  living  persons.  (1  Pet.  3:18-20;  4:6.) 

Peter  addressed  his  letters  to  those 
who  had  covenanted  to  assist  Jesus  in 
the  exaltation  of  mankind,  saying  to 
them: 

"But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a 
royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a 
peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew 
forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his 
marvelous  light: 

"Which  in  time  past  were  not  a 
people,  but  are  now  the  people  of  God: 
which  had  not  obtained  mercy,  but 
now  have  obtained  mercy."  (1  Pet. 
2:9-10.) 

Peter  referred  to  the  mercy  of  Jesus 
for  the  individual  person.  Even  a  per- 
son's personal  sins  could  be  forgiven 
in  mercy,  if  he  would  fully  repent,  turn 
from  his  sinful  ways,  and  keep  the 
covenant  with  God  to  become  his  child 
through  Jesus  Christ. 

In  his  next  letter  Peter  pled  with 
his  brethren:  "Wherefore  the  rather, 
brethren,  give  diligence  to  make  your 
calling  and  election  sure:  for  if  ye  do 
these  things,  ye  shall  never  fall." 
(2  Pet.  1:10.) 

Just  before  saying  this,  Peter  had 
taught  them  the  need  for  faith,  virtue, 
knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  god- 
liness, brotherly  kindness,  and  charity. 
The  word  charity  is  an  expression  used 
for  love  so  great  that  a  person  is  willing 
to  sacrifice  a  part  of  his  time  or  worldly 
possessions  for  others  out  of  the  great- 
ness of  his  love  for  them.  Mormon 
defined  charity  as  the  pure  love  of 
Christ  which  endureth  forever.  (Moro. 
7:47.) 

Assembling  Temple  Ordinance  data 

It  was  with  this  personal  priesthood 
responsibility  in  mind  that  in  1965  a 
program  of  compiling  data  for  temple 
ordinance  work  for  three  generations  in 
each  individual  family  was  given  to 
the  priesthood  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  pro- 
gram has  been  continued  into  1966  for 
those  who  did  not  complete  this  work. 
By  following  this  program  themselves, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


34 

Wednesday,  April  6 

the  priesthood  can  lead  the  members  of 
the  whole  Church  into  a  charitable 
work  for  themselves,  their  families  and 
their  immediate  ancestors.  This  is  no 
make-work  project,  but  the  first  step  in 
an  organized  plan  for  teaching  the 
priesthood  the  assignment  given  them 
by  an  angel  on  September  21,  1823,  in 
these  words: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of 
the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth 
would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 
(D&C  2.) 

This  three-generation  program  is  the 
first  practical  step  in  compiling  a 
record  that  each  individual  family 
must  present  as  its  sacrifice  in  the 
temple,  as  given  in  the  following 
words  from  the  scripture: 

"Behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
is  at  hand;  and  who  can  abide  the  day 
of  his  coming,  and  who  can  stand 
when  he  appeareth?  For  he  is  like  a 
refiner's  fire,  and  like  fuller's  soap;  and 
he  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and  purifier 
of  silver,  and  he  shall  purify  the  sons 
of  Levi,  and  purge  them  as  gold  and 
silver,  that  they  may  offer  unto  the 
Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness.  Let 
us,  therefore,  as  a  church  and  a  people, 
and  as  Latter-day  Saints,  offer  unto  the 
Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness;  and 
let  us  present  in  his  holy  temple,  when 
it  is  finished,  a  book  containing  the 
records  of  our  dead,  which  shall  be 
worthy  of  all  acceptation."  (D&C 
128:24.) 

The  compilation  of  an  individual 
family  record  is  a  duty  of  such  sacred 
importance  that  it  cannot  be  wholly 
entrusted  to  others  to  do  for  us.  We 
cannot  just  hope  that  an  aunt  or  an 
uncle  or  a  cousin  will  do  this  work  for 
the  whole  family.  Relatives  and  friends 
can  help  and  assist  us.  All  members  of 
the  family  should  help  one  another  in 
assembling  this  information  and  pass- 
ing it  on  to  others.  The  responsibility 
for  compiling  a  record  for  our  own 
family,  however,  rests  with  each  one  of 


First  Day 

us  in  our  individual  families.  We  each 
must  have  a  record  to  show  that  this 
holy  work  has  been  done  as  completely 
as  we  and  our  loved  ones  have  power 
to  complete  it.  As  I  understand  the 
scripture,  this  is  an  individual  family 
responsibility  given  to  the  priesthood 
to  administer  and  to  complete. 

One  of  the  amazing  by-products  of 
this  program  of  listing  the  record  of 
temple  work  done  for  our  immediate 
families  is  to  see  how  our  complacency 
in  the  past  had  resulted  in  incomplete 
work  for  certain  members  of  the 
family.  An  aunt,  an  uncle,  or  a  cousin 
had  been  overlooked  for  one  reason  or 
another.  Some  records  were  incomplete, 
for  a  necessary  ordinance  here  or  there 
had  been  forgotten.  As  families  worked 
to  fill  these  gaps,  relatives  were  drawn 
together  as  if  by  magic.  Cousins  we 
had  not  seen  for  years  visited  us  or 
called  on  the  telephone.  Contacts  with 
loved  ones  long  neglected  were 
awakened  again  and  led  to  the  forma- 
tion of  new  family  organizations. 
Family  reunions  were  held  that  now 
had  purpose  and  meaning. 

Not  to  be  overlooked  was  the 
spiritual  awakening  of  some  families 
as  sins  long  overlooked  or  covered  by 
deception  and  falsehoods  were  brought 
to  light  and  corrected.  This  repentance 
would  not  have  occurred  without  the 
impetus  given  through  this  priesthood 
program.  Thus,  the  record  required  of 
us  was  made  more  perfect  and  our 
lives  in  turn  made  more  beautiful  as 
the  need  for  tenderness,  forgiveness, 
and  consideration  in  home  and  family 
ties  was  made  evident.  No  family 
should  hesitate  to  join  in  this  program 
of  gathering  and  completing  family 
records  to  produce  a  book  of  remem- 
brance worthy  of  all  acceptation  in  the 
temples  of  God. 

The  priests  of  Israel  in  olden  times 
presented  an  offering  of  a  male  lamb, 
white  and  without  blemish,  as  a  re- 
membrance of  Jesus  Christ,  who  was 
to  come  to  redeem  the  world  from 
death  and  the  grave.  In  an  analogous 
manner  our  priesthood  today  with 
their  families  are  to  prepare  a  book  of 
their  dead,  perfect,  without  blemish, 
containing  a  record  of  completed  ordi- 


ELDER  ELRAY 

nance  work  done  for  their  dead 
ancestors.  This  record  containing  the 
completed  temple  ordinances  is  a  sac- 
rifice of  the  living  for  those  of  their 
dead  loved  ones  to  bind  them  into  the 
family  of  Jesus  Christ — not  only  to  be 
redeemed  from  death,  but  also,  if  ac- 
cepted, exalting  them  into  the  very 
presence  of  God  the  Eternal  Father. 

Assignment  to  Priesthood  and 
members 

This  program  is  the  beginning,  then, 
for  compiling  an  individual  family 
record  by  which  members  of  the 
priesthood  can  help  make  their  calling 
and  election  sure.  As  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith  declared: 


..  CHRISTENSEN  35 

"The  greatest  responsibility  .  .  .  that 
God  has  laid  upon  us  is  to  seek  after 
our  dead."  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  compiled  by  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  Second  Edition,  p. 
356.) 

Why  is  this  so?  Because  the  work  of 
Jesus  Christ  must  be  made  complete 
and  perfect  through  the  help  of  those 
of  us  who  profess  to  be  his  servants 
so  that  every  man  and  woman  who 
desires  to  do  so  may  make  a  personal 
covenant  upon  this  earth  to  accept 
Jesus  Christ  as  their  Lord,  their  Re- 
deemer, and  their  King. 

Of  him  I  testify  in  the  name  of  the 
Only  Begotten  Son,  even  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ELRAY  ] 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

I  stand  before  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  humility  and  in  gratitude 
for  the  assurance  I  have  that  this  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored  in 
fulfillment  of  the  promises  of  the  Lord 
made  through  his  prophets  and  re- 
corded both  in  the  Old  Testament  and 
in  the  New  Testament  and  in  other 
volumes  of  scripture,  and  that  his 
prophet-leader  in  our  day  is  President 
David  O.  McKay,  who  sits  with  us 
here  today.  We  are  so  thankful,  Presi- 
dent McKay,  that  you  are  here. 

Christ's  earthly  reign 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  proclaims  without  reser- 
vation or  hesitation  the  doctrine  that 
Christ  will  return  to  the  earth  to  reign 
in  power  and  great  glory.  One  of  our 
articles  of  faith  states:  "We  believe 
that  .  .  .  Christ  will  reign  personally 
upon  the  earth;  and,  that  the  earth 
will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  para- 
disiacal glory."  (Tenth  article  of 
faith.) 

It  will  be  an  actual,  literal  return  of 
the  Lord  in  person.  His  coming  is 
assured  by  Job,  who  exclaimed:  "...  I 
know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and 
that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day 
upon  the  earth."  (Job  19:25.) 

From  the  writings  of  Moses  we  learn 


CHRISTENSEN 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

concerning  the  revelation  given  to 
Enoch:  "And  the  Lord  said  unto 
Enoch:  As  I  live,  even  so  will  I  come 
in  the  last  days,  in  the  days  of  wicked- 
ness and  vengeance,  to  fulfil  the  oath 
which  I  have  made  unto  you  concern- 
ing the  children  of  Noah."  (Moses 
7:60.) 

During  his  ministry  upon  the  earth, 
Jesus  gave  his  disciples  assurance  of  his 
coming  by  saying:  "For  the  Son  of 
man  shall  come  in  the  glory  of  his 
Father  with  his  angels;  and  then  he 
shall  reward  every  man  according  to 
his  works."  (Matt.  16:27.) 

To  those  who  are  not  indifferent 
and  who  do  not  close  their  minds  to 
the  truth,  the  words  of  Jesus,  revealed 
only  a  few  decades  ago,  are  clear  and 
understandable.  To  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  came  this  promise:  "For  behold, 
verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  the  time 
is  soon  at  hand  that  I  shall  come  in  a 
cloud  with  power  and  great  glory. 

"And  it  shall  be  a  great  day  at  the 
time  of  my  coming,  for  all  nations 
shall  tremble."  (D&C  34:7-8.) 

".  .  .  be  prepared  for  the  days  to 
come,  in  the  which  the  Son  of  Man 
shall  come  down  in  heaven,  clothed  in 
the  brightness  of  his  glory,  to  meet  the 
kingdom  of  God  which  is  set  up  on 
the  earth."  (D&C  65:5.  Italics  added.) 


36  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

There  is  no  ambiguity  in  these 
words.  That  the  Lord  will  come  again 
no  one  needs  doubt! 

But  when  will  this  stupendous  event 
take  place? 

Ever  since  his  ascension  into  heaven, 
the  faithful  followers  of  Jesus  have 
looked  hopefully  for  the  day  when  he 
would  return.  However,  he  himself 
was  most  explicit  in  explaining  that 
the  precise  time  of  his  return  would 
not  be  known  in  advance.  ".  .  .  of  that 
day  and  hour,"  he  said,  "knoweth  no 
man,  no,  not  the  angels  of  heaven, 
but  my  Father  only." 

"Watch  therefore:  for  ye  know  not 
what  hour  your  Lord  doth  come." 

".  .  .  for  in  such  an  hour  as  ye  think 
not  the  Son  of  man  cometh."  (Matt. 
24:36,  42,  44.) 

There  is  no  fixed  time  for  a  genera- 
tion, no  year  or  precise  date  given  by 
the  Lord  when  events  shall  take  place, 
and  it  is  folly  for  us  to  attempt  to  do 
it  for  him.  He  will,  however,  see 
that  his  word  is  fulfilled,  for  he  has 
said,  ".  .  .  one  jot  or  one  tittle  shall 
in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law,  till  all 
be  fulfilled."  (Matt.  5:18.) 

So  while  the  day  and  the  hour  are 
not  revealed  and  will  not  be  made 
known  to  man,  we  can,  by  learning 
to  understand  the  signs  of  the  times, 
by  watching  the  development  of  the 
work  of  God  among  the  nations,  and 
by  noting  the  rapid  fulfillment  of  sig- 
nificant prophecies,  perceive  the  pro- 
gressive evidence  of  the  approaching 
event. 

Signs  of  His  coming 

Indeed,  most  of  the  significant  signs 
that  the  scriptures  say  will  precede  his 
coming  have  already  taken  place. 
These  signs  and  noteworthy  develop- 
ments include: 

1.  A  universal  apostasy  from  the 
Church  first  established  by  Christ. 
Paul  taught  the  Thessalonians,  saying: 
".  .  .  that  day  shall  not  come,  except 
there  come  a  falling  away  first.  .  .  ." 
(2  Thess.  2:3.) 

And  he  reminded  Timothy  that  "the 
time  will  come  when  they  will  not 
endure  sound  doctrine;  but  after  their 
own  lusts  shall  they  heap  to  them- 
selves teachers,  having  itching  ears; 


First  Day 

"And  they  shall  turn  away  their 
ears  from  the  truth.  .  .  ."  (2  Tim. 
4:3-4.) 

2.  The  gospel  in  its  fullness  has  been 
restored  as  promised,  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  has  come  forth  as  prophesied 
by  Ezekiel.  (Ezek.  37.) 

3.  Likewise,  the  priesthood  has  been 
restored  through  the  visitation  of 
heavenly  beings. 

4.  The  gospel  has,  for  more  than  a 
hundred  years,  been  taught  to  thou- 
sands of  people  in  many  nations. 

5.  As  promised  by  the  prophets, 
both  of  the  Old  Testament  and  of  the 
New  Testament,  the  Church  has  been 
established  in  conformity  with  the 
original  Church. 

6.  In  fulfillment  of  Malachi's  prom- 
ise, Elijah  has  restored  the  keys  of  the 
sealing  power,  which  are  exercised  in 
the  many  temples  throughout  the 
world  today. 

Other  marvelous  signs  and  manifes- 
tations will  be  witnessed  both  in 
heaven  and  in  earth  prior  to  his  com- 
ing. We  must  wait  for  them  to 
develop. 

How  will  his  coming  affect  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth? 

The  very  thought  of  it  thrills  the 
human  soul!  We  are  told  that  his 
coming  will  be  sublime  and  glorious; 
awesome  and  terrible — terrible  to  the 
unrepentant  and  ungodly,  but  glorious 
and  delightful  to  those  who  are  worthy 
of  him  and  who  are  ready  to  meet 
him. 

"For,"  he  has  said,  "I  will  reveal 
myself  from  heaven  with  power  and 
great  glory,  with  all  the  hosts  thereof, 
and  dwell  in  righteousness  with  men 
on  earth  a  thousand  years,  and  the 
wicked  shall  not  stand. 

".  .  .  for  they  will  not  repent.  .  .  ." 
(D&C  29:11,  17.) 

The  righteous  shall  be 
"caught  up" 

At  his  coming  Christ  will  cause  the 
hosts  of  righteous  ones  who  have 
passed  from  life  to  come  forth  from 
the  graves,  and  those  who  "are  alive 
and  remain  shall  be  caught  up"  with 
them  to  meet  him.  (1  Thess.  4:17.  See 
also  D&C  88:96.) 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


37 


"And  all  they  who  have  mourned 
shall  be  comforted. 

"And  all  they  who  have  given  their 
lives  for  my  name  shall  be  crowned. 

"Therefore,  let  your  hearts  be  com- 
forted .  .  .;  for  all  flesh  is  in  mine 
hands;  be  still  and  know  that  I  am 
God."  (D&C  101:14-16.) 

Prepare  for  His  coming 

Under  such  conditions,  all  of  us  will 
desire  to  live  with  him  and  with  our 
loved  ones  upon  the  earth.  And  we 
can  do  this  if  we,  like  the  five  wise 
among  the  ten  virgins  spoken  of  by  the 
Lord  in  the  parable,  will  not  only 
desire  to  meet  and  be  with  him  but  also 
make  the  preparation  necessary  to  do 
so.  We  are  not  without  direction  in 
our  preparation  for  his  coming.  He 
has  given  in  the  restored  gospel  the  pat- 
tern to  be  followed. 

Through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Lord  made  this  known  to  the 
Church,  saying: 

"And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  ever- 
lasting covenant  into  the  world,  to  be 
a  light  to  the  world,  and  to  he  a 
standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the 
Gentiles  to  seek  it,  and  to  be  a  mes- 
senger before  my  face  to  prepare  the 
way  before  me."  (D&C  45:9.  Italics 
added.) 

".  .  .  at  that  day,  when  I  shall  come 
in  my  glory,  shall  the  parable  be  ful- 
filled which  I  spake  concerning  the 
ten  virgins. 

"For  they  that  are  wise  and  have  .  .  . 
taken  the  Holy  Spirit  for  their  guide, 
and  have  not  been  deceived — verily  I 
say  unto  you,  they  shall  not  be  hewn 
down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  but  shall 
abide  the  day."  (D&C  45:56-57.) 


"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
righteous  shall  be  gathered  out  from 
among  all  nations,  and  shall  come  to 
Zion,  singing  with  songs  of  everlasting 
joy."  (D&C  45:71.) 

"Come,  Let  Us  Anew" 

The  words  of  a  lovely  song  come  to 
mind:  "If  Christ  should  come  tomor- 
row, what  would  he  do?  what  would 
he  say?"  What  would  we  do?  What 
would  we  say? 

"O  that  each  in  the  day  of  his  coming 
may  say, 

'I  have  fought  my  way  through. 

I  have  finished  the  work  thou  didst 
give  me  to  do.' 

Oh,  that  each  from  the  Lord  may  re- 
ceive this  glad  word: 

'Well  and  faithfully  done; 

Enter  into  my  joy  and  sit  down  on  my 
throne, 

Enter  into  my  joy  and  sit  down  on  my 
throne.' " 

("Come,  Let  Us  Anew,"  Hymns,  17.) 

It  is  then  that  will  be  seen  a  fulfill- 
ment of  the  Lord's  own  prayer,  which 
has  been  sung  so  beautifully  today: 
"Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be 
done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  6:10.) 

May  it  so  be,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Master.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
After  the  remarks  by  Elder  Longden, 
the  congregation  and  choir  will  join 
in  singing,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation," 
conducted  by  John  R.  Halliday. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


On  September  23,  1909,  I  walked 
with  my  father,  holding  his  hand, 
down  a  street  called  Edge  Lane  in 
Liverpool,  England,  into  the  office  of 
the  then  British  Mission  and  had  the 
privilege  of  shaking  the  hand  of  Presi- 
dent Charles  W.  Penrose  just  before 


we  boarded  ship  to  come  to  this  great 
country  of  America. 

Dedication  of  Oldham  Chapel 

In  March  of  that  same  year,  Presi- 
dent Penrose  dedicated  a  little  corru- 
gated,   galvanized    meetinghouse  in 


38  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Oldham,  Lancashire,  where  I  was  born. 
Through  the  graciousness  and  kindness 
of  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the 
First  Presidency,  I  had  the  privilege  of 
returning  to  the  land  of  my  birth  after 
fifty-six  years  to  dedicate  a  beautiful 
structure  in  the  town  of  Oldham. 
President  McKay,  we  shall  always  be 
grateful  to  you  for  this  assignment  and 
the  opportunity  of  holding  conferences 
in  London,  in  Leicester,  and  in  Hol- 
land. It  was  a  rich  experience  to 
associate  with  the  members  in  Old- 
ham. My,  what  a  contrast  from  the 
little  galvanized  building  in  which  I 
used  to  go  to  Sunday  School  and  sac- 
rament meeting  and  all  the  other 
services  that  were  held  at  that  time. 
Almost  four  hundred  people  assembled 
that  Sunday  night  of  February  27 
with  the  Manchester  Stake  Mormon 
Choir,  which  they  informed  me  they 
had  permission  to  so  be  called  by  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Fifty-six  years  ago!  It  seems  like 
yesterday!  How  time  flies! 

Value  of  time 

We  have  heard  much  about  time 
during  this  conference  thus  far,  and  I 
should  like  to  spend  a  few  moments 
on  this  subject  of  time. 

How  many  times  have  you  heard  the 
statement,  "I  haven't  time" — yet  all 
individuals  are  blessed  with  the  same 
amount  of  this  precious  commodity. 

"Guard  well  your  spare  moments," 
Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  advised.  "They 
are  like  uncut  diamonds.  Discard  them 
and  their  value  will  never  be  known. 
Improve  them  and  they  will  become 
the  brightest  gems  in  a  useful  life." 

Most  of  us  waste  an  inexcusable 
amount  of  time.  We  go  along  using 
time  thoughtlessly  and  failing  to  get 
out  of  it  either  enjoyment  of  life  or 
the  satisfaction  of  accomplishments. 

Time  passes  quickly,  we  cannot  save 
it,  we  cannot  buy  it.  There  is  nothing 
we  can  do  about  it  except  to  see  as  far 
as  possible  that  it  passes  fruitfully. 

Robert  R.  Updegraff  once  said,  "To 
get  all  there  is  out  of  living,  we  must 
employ  our  time  wisely,  never  being 
in  too  much  of  a  hurry  to  stop  and 
sip  life,  but  never  losing  our  sense  of 
the  enormous  value  of  a  minute." 


First  Day 

Mere  "busyness"  is  not  necessarily 
evidence  of  the  wise  use  of  time.  There 
should  be  time  for  mental  and  spir- 
itual development  as  well  as  relaxa- 
tion: time  for  worship  and  time  to 
express  our  thankfulness  for  our  ability 
to  work,  and  think,  and  pray,  and  read, 
and  help,  and  dream,  and  laugh,  and 
plan,  and  learn. 

"Dost  thou  love  life,  then  do  not 
squander  time,  for  that  is  the  stuff  life 
is  made  of,"  said  Benjamin  Franklin. 

Modern  conditions  have  and  are 
creating  more  leisure,  adding  to  our 
woes  unless  this  precious  time  is  used 
wisely. 

I  was  interested  in  the  word 
"leisure"  because  we  hear  so  much 
about  it,  so  referring  to  the  dictionary, 
I  found  this  description:  "Spare  time; 
unoccupied  by  work;  as,  leisure  hours." 

"The  end  of  labor  is  to  gain  leisure." 
(Aristotle.) 

Time  well  employed 

"Employ  thy  time  well,  if  thou 
meanest  to  gain  leisure;  and,  since 
thou  art  not  sure  of  a  minute,  throw 
not  away  an  hour."  "Leisure  is  time 
for  doing  something  useful;  this  leisure 
the  diligent  man  will  obtain;  but  the 
lazy  man,  never."  "A  life  of  leisure 
and  a  life  of  laziness  are  two  things." 
(Franklin.) 

"Leisure  is  a  beautiful  garment,  but 
it  will  not  do  for  constant  wearing." 
(Anonymous.) 

"Leisure  is  pain;  takes  off  our 
chariot  wheels;  how  heavily  we  drag 
the  load  of  life.  Blessed  leisure  is 
our  curse."  (Edward  Young,  Night 
Thoughts,  1742.) 

"Leisure  for  men  of  business,  and 
business  for  men  of  leisure,  would  cure 
many  complaints."  (Mrs.  Thrale.) 

Spare  minutes  are  the  gold-dust  of 
time;  the  portions  of  life  most  fruitful 
in  good  or  evil;  the  gaps  through 
which  temptations  enter. 

Yes,  temptations. 

"Time  well  employed  is  Satan's 
deadliest  foe;  it  leaves  no  opening  for 
the  lurking  fiend,"  said  Wilcox. 

I  think  of  another  of  my  mother's 
teachings:  "An  idle  brain  is  the  devil's 
workshop."    (English  proverb.)  We 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


39 


know  it  is  not  when  we  are  busy  that 
we  get  into  trouble. 

Herndon  said:  "Satan  selects  his 
disciples  when  they  are  idle;  Jesus 
selected  his  when  they  were  busy  at 
their  work  either  mending  their  nets 
or  casting  them  into  the  sea." 

Then  Hans  Christian  Andersen  said, 
"Time  is  so  fleeting  that  if  we  do  not 
remember  God  in  our  youth,  age  may 
find  us  incapable  of  thinking  about 
Him." 

The  Prophet  Alma  said:  ".  .  .  learn 
wisdom  in  thy  youth;  yea,  learn  in  thy 
youth  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God."  (Al.  37:35.) 

"Remember  now  thy  Creator,  in  the 
days  of  thy  youth" 

I  thrilled  this  morning  with  this 
beautiful  Primary  chorus  and  to  hear 
their  melodious,  sweet,  young  voices 
singing  these  glorious  hymns:  "I  am  a 
child  of  God.  .  .  .  Lead  me,  guide  me, 
walk  beside  me,  Help  me  find  the 
way."  Yes,  in  their  youth  they  are 
learning  these  precious  teachings. 

The  Apostle  Paul  gave  excellent 
counsel — Ephesians  6:10-11: 

"...  be  strong  in  the  Lord,  and  in 
the  power  of  his  might. 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil." 

The  time  we  spend  learning  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  will  bring  untold 
blessings  to  us  all  the  days  of  our  lives 
and  enable  us  to  avoid  or  overcome 
the  temptations  of  Satan. 

Some  can  see  the  greatness  of  the 
past,  some  can  sense  the  potential  of 
the  future,  but  few  are  able  to  recog- 
nize the  greatness  of  the  present.  Those 
of  us  who  have  the  light  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  a  knowledge  of  the 
purpose  of  life  and  the  reason  for 
being  here  have  an  advantage  over 
those  who  do  not  have  this  blessing. 

Therefore,  we  need  to  place  the  true 
value  upon  this  precious  commodity 
time. 

There  are  60  seconds  in  a  minute, 
60  minutes  in  an  hour,  24  hours  in  a 
day,  168  hours  in  a  week,  8,736  hours 
in  a  year.  The  average  span  of  life  at 


present  is  70  years.  In  that  many  years 
there  would  be  well  in  excess  of 
600,000  hours. 

Let  us  not  worry  about  the  span  of 
life  (70  years)  or  the  total  accumulated 
hours  in  those  years,  but  take  each  day 
as  it  comes,  living  every  minute,  every 
hour. 

May  I  read  something  very  appro- 
priate on  this  thought  titled  "Today." 
I  do  not  know  the  author's  name. 

Today 

Today  is  here.  I  will  start  with  a 
smile,  and  resolve  to  be  agreeable.  I 
will  not  criticize.  I  refuse  to  waste  my 
valuable  time. 

Today  has  one  thing  in  which  I 
know  I  am  equal  with  others — Time. 
All  of  us  draw  the  same  salary  in 
seconds,  minutes,  hours — 24  Golden 
Hours  each  day. 

Today  I  will  not  waste  my  time, 
because  the  minutes  I  wasted  yesterday 
are  as  lost  as  a  vanished  thought. 

Today  I  refuse  to  spend  time  worry- 
ing about  what  might  happen.  I  am 
going  to  spend  my  time  making  things 
happen. 

Today  I  am  determined  to  study  to 
improve  myself,  for  tomorrow  I  may 
be  wanted,  and  I  must  not  be  found 
lacking. 

Today  I  am  determined  to  do  things 
I  should  do.  I  firmly  resolve  to  stop 
doing  the  things  I  should  not  do. 

Today  I  begin  by  doing  and  not 
wasting  my  time.  In  one  week  I  will 
be  miles  beyond  the  person  I  am  today. 

Today  I  will  not  imagine  what  I 
would  do  if  things  were  different.  They 
are  not  different.  I  will  make  a  success 
with  what  material  I  have. 

Today  I  will  stop  saying,  "If  I  had 
time,"  for  I  never  will  "find  time"  for 
anything — if  I  want  time  I  must  take 
it. 

Today  I  will  act  toward  other  people 
as  though  this  might  be  my  last  day 
on  earth.  I  will  not  wait  for  tomorrow. 
Tomorrow  never  comes. 

Yes,  we  have  time  to  be  honest,  time 
to  be  gentlemen  and  ladies;  time  to  be 
polite;  time  to  be  virtuous,  to  be  clean; 
time  to  study,  to  pray,  to  think;  time 
to  act  wisely;  time  to  be  happy;  time 


40  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

to  worship,  to  develop  self-control; 
time  to  have  faith,  to  repent,  to  be 
baptized  by  immersion  by  one  having 
the  authority;  and  time  to  receive  a 
witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  power 
which  will  guide  us  into  further  light 
and  truth  and  knowledge,  this  great 
boon  or  favor  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  his  divine  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
Then  we  are  conforming  with  the  for- 
malities that  permit  us  entrance  into 
the  kingdom  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
I  bear  this  witness  and  testimony  that 
we  can  take  advantage  of  our  time  and 
accomplish  great  deeds  in  rendering 
service  to  our  fellowmen,  and  I  ask 
that  this  will  be  our  lot,  in  the  name 


First  Day 

of  Jesus  Christ,  our  divine  Savior. 
Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "How  Firm  a 
Foundation,"  conducted  by  John  R. 
Halliday. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Eldred  G. 
Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will 
address  us. 


Singing,  the  Combined  Choruses  and 
congregation,  "How  Firm  a  Founda- 
tion." 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


The  scriptures  are  replete  with  the 
admonition  to  endure  to  the  end  with 
a  promise  of  eternal  life  as  a  reward. 
To  the  Nephites  the  Lord  said,  "Look 
unto  me,  and  endure  to  the  end,  and 
ye  shall  live;  for  unto  him  that 
endureth  unto  the  end  will  I  give 
eternal  life."  (3  Ne.  15:9.)  In  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord 
says,  ".  .  .  whosoever  is  of  my  church, 
and  endureth  of  my  church  to  the  end, 
him  will  I  establish  upon  my  rock,  and 
the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  them."  (D&C  10:69.) 

"Endure  to  the  end" 

What  does  it  mean  to  endure?  One 
definition  is:  "to  have  duration;  to 
continue."  This  would  be  to  outlast 
time;  this  is  important  too.  But  here 
is  another  definition:  "to  withstand  or 
bear,  as  pain,  sorrow,  destructive  force, 
without  yielding;  to  suffer  patiently; 
to  remain  firm,  as  under  trial  or  suf- 
fering; to  bear  up  under  adversity." 
One  of  the  main  purposes  of  this  life 
is  to  overcome  obstacles,  to  gain 
strength,  to  grow  to  the  point  where 
we  can  endure  many  things.  For  in- 
stance, can  you  endure  others  and 
their  differences  of  opinion?  Can  you 
accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
face  of  adversity?   Can  you  live  as 


Christ  taught,  that  you  might  be 
worthy  of  eternal  life?  To  endure 
means  more  than  just  a  good  start 
alone;  we  must  finish  with  zeal. 

Life  is  much  like  a  basketball  game. 
You  don't  win  if  you  don't  start  well 
and  then  slow  down;  but  if  you  get 
off  to  a  bad  start,  it  is  possible  to  catch 
up  and  even  win.  The  finish  is  of  most 
importance.  Remember  the  parable 
Jesus  gave  of  the  laborers.  He  said, 
"For  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  a  man  that  is  an  householder, 
which  went  out  early  in  the  morning 
to  hire  labourers  into  his  vineyard. 

"And  when  he  had  agreed  with  the 
labourers  for  a  penny  a  day,  he  sent 
them  into  his  vineyard. 

"And  he  went  out"  repeatedly 
during  the  day  and  hired  other  laborers 
even  unto  the  eleventh  hour,  telling 
each  that  he  would  pay  them  that 
which  was  right.  Then  at  the  end  of 
the  day,  paying  the  last  laborer  hired 
first,  he  paid  each  a  penny,  giving  the 
same  reward  for  the  day's  labor  to  each 
person.  (Matt.  20:1-15.)  The  Lord  not 
only  said  to  endure  but  to  endure  to 
the  end — to  the  end  of  life,  your  life. 
How  long  is  your  life?  Time  is  rele- 
vant. Brother  Longden  has  just  told  us 
quite  a  bit  about  time,  which  should 
stir  up  our  interest  in  how  we  use  it. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


Which  time  calendar  do  you  use  to 
measure  your  lifetime  on  the  earth? 

While  Abraham  was  in  Egypt,  the 
Lord  taught  him  much  concerning  the 
stars,  especially  those  that  control  the 
times  and  the  seasons.  Thus  Abraham 
wrote: 

"And  I  saw  the  stars,  that  they  were 
very  great,  and  that  one  of  them  was 
nearest  unto  the  throne  of  God;  and 
there  were  many  great  ones  which 
were  near  unto  it; 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  me:  These 
are  the  governing  ones;  and  the  name 
of  the  great  one  is  Kolob,  because  it  is 
near  unto  me,  for  I  am  the  Lord  thy 
God:  I  have  set  this  one  to  govern  all 
those  which  belong  to  the  same  order 
as  that  upon  which  thou  standest. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  by  the 
Urim  and  Thummim,  that  Kolob  was 
after  the  manner  of  the  Lord,  accord- 
ing to  its  times  and  seasons  in  the 
revolutions  thereof;  that  one  revolution 
was  a  day  unto  the  Lord,  after  his 
manner  of  reckoning,  it  being  one 
thousand  years  according  to  the  time 
appointed  unto  that  whereon  thou 
standest.  This  is  the  reckoning  of  the 
Lord's  time,  according  to  the  reckoning 
of  Kolob."  (Abr.  3:2-4.) 

A  thousand  years — one  day 
to  the  Lord 

So  according  to  this,  1000  years  of 
our  time  is  equivalent  to  one  day  with 
the  Lord.  If  you  were  to  live  to  be 
100  years  old  on  earth,  that  would  be 
1/10  of  one  day  with  the  Lord.  Now 
suppose  we  divide  the  Lord's  day 
into  24  equal  parts,  as  our  day  is, 
just  for  comparative  purposes:  100 
years  of  our  life  would  be  equal  to 
1/10  of  24,  or  2.4  hours.  So  according 
to  this,  if  you  live  to  be  100  on  this 
earth,  that  would  be  equivalent  to  2.4 
hours  in  the  Lord's  time  calendar.  If 
you  live  to  be  75,  that  would  be  one 
hour  and  48  minutes.  Fifty  years  of 
this  time  is  equivalent  to  one  hour  and 
12  minutes  in  the  Lord's  time. 

Imagine  yourself  for  a  moment  back 
in  the  spirit  world  before  you  came 
to  earth.  You  were  living  in  the 
presence  of  God  in  the  celestial  world. 
You  knew  from  firsthand  experience 


41 

the  fullness  of  the  glory  of  God.  You 
knew  you  could  not  participate  in  his 
glory,  or  become  as  he  is,  because  you 
were  only  a  spirit;  you  didn't  have  a 
physical  body.  Now  the  opportunity 
comes  for  you  to  go  to  earth  where  you 
can  receive  such  a  body  and  become 
as  he  is.  Of  course,  you  shouted  for 
joy!  Then  let's  assume  that  you  were 
instructed  that  you  would  be  allotted 
100  years  of  mortal  time.  To  you, 
there  and  then,  that  would  be  two 
hours  and  24  minutes.  That  would  be 
the  only  time  calendar  you  would  be 
familiar  with — only  about  2'/3  hours. 

Only  2'/3  hours  to  earn  such  a  great 
reward — and  some  may  not  live  100 
years;  most  of  us  will  not.  So  we  will 
assume  about  two  hours  time  in  the 
Lord's  time  is  allotted  to  us  in  this 
life. 

Brother  John  Longden  has  just  told 
us  that  the  average  life  was  70  years; 
that  is  about  1.7  hours  in  the  Lord's 
time.  I  think  that  for  that  short 
length  of  time  you  would  be  willing 
to  put  up  with  most  anything.  We 
have  in  this  life  two  golden  hours. 

Promises  for  enduring 

Wouldn't  you  promise  to  endure 
almost  anything  for  two  hours  to  get 
the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  prom- 
ised of  eternal  life  and  to  become  as 
he  is?  He  has  promised  that  all  that 
the  Father  has  shall  be  given  unto 
you.  Then  suppose  you  were  in- 
structed that  you  would  have  much 
to  endure  in  this  life  on  earth.  Nothing 
would  be  too  great  to  endure  for  two 
hours,  would  it?  You  would  be  will- 
ing to  promise  to  build  this  body  and 
keep  it  clean.  You  would  not  partici- 
pate in  any  activities  that  would  de- 
file the  body.  You  would  be  willing 
to  accept  the  teachings  of  the  Savior. 
You  would  accept  his  gospel  when  it 
was  presented  unto  you.  You  would 
meet  any  adversity  willingly  for  two 
hours.  Even  though  you  were  in- 
structed that  you  would  have  pain, 
sorrow,  sickness,  misery,  wars,  and 
even  horrible  wars  to  go  through,  you 
would  still  be  willing  to  come,  and 
even  to  beg  for  the  opportunities  of 
coming,  to  endure  for  two  hours'  time. 
Yes,  even  if  you  were  told  you  would 


42  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

be  born  crippled,  maimed,  diseased, 
you  would  still  be  willing  to  come  to 
endure  whatever  might  be  required  of 
you  to  get  the  blessings  of  eternal  life 
as  a  result  of  but  a  short  period  of 
time.  You  would  even  be  willing  to 
accept  being  born  blind  on  this  earth 
if  it  meant  the  outcome  of  this  short 
time  would  be  that  you  would  have 
the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 

I  am  sure  that  you  would  have  prom- 
ised that  you  would  accept  the  gospel 
against  any  opposition.  You  would 
live  the  gospel.  Oh,  yes.  You  would 
be  told  that  you  would  have  to  live 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  You  would 
have  to  pay  your  tithing.  You  would 
be  asked  to  attend  many  meetings.  You 
would  be  required  to  give  much  of 
your  time  and  your  assistance  in  order 
to  promote  the  work  of  the  Lord  upon 
the  earth.  You  might  be  asked  to  sing 
in  the  choir  occasionally. 

You  might  be  required  to  do  gene- 
alogical research  work  and  to  spend 
much  of  your  time  in  the  temples  or  in 
many  other  activities  in  behalf  of 
someone  else.  You  might  be  instructed 
that  you  would  be  required  to  be  a 
bishop  and  give  of  your  time  unselfish- 
ly, as  a  bishop  does,  all  for  the  benefit 
of  others.  What  price  could  you  pay 
that  would  be  too  high  and  too  great 
for  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  and 
to  become  as  your  Heavenly  Father? 

Some  say  when  the  missionaries 
come  to  them,  "I  am  too  old;  it  is  too 
late  in  life  to  change  now.  I  am  too 
old  to  change  my  religion."  To  such 
people  I  might  say,  "All  the  more 
reason  why  you  had  better  make  the 
change  quickly  so  that  you  will  be 
prepared  to  meet  your  Maker  and  say, 
'I  tried  at  the  last  minute  when  the 
opportunity  first  came  to  me.'  "  No  one 
is  too  old  to  start  doing  good  or  to 
make  changes  and  amendments  in  the 
right  direction. 

If  you  are  married  for  50  years  in 
this  life,  that  is  equivalent  to  one  hour 
and  12  minutes  in  the  Lord's  time. 


First  Day 

Can  you,  as  married  couples,  put  up 
with  each  other  and  learn  to  be  faith- 
ful in  all  things  for  an  hour  and  12 
minutes?  Could  you  withstand  the 
test  of  prosperity?  This  is  a  test  under 
which  many  individuals,  as  well  as 
cities  or  nations,  fall.  Can  we  as  a 
Church,  can  we  as  Americans,  can 
we  of  this  latter  day  withstand  the 
trial  of  prosperity  for  two  hours  or  so 
of  the  Lord's  time?  I  think  that  when 
the  Lord  does  the  judging,  he  will 
think  in  terms  of  the  eternal  time, 
the  Lord's  time.  And  he  might  say, 
could  you  not  be  faithful  for  such  a 
short  time  as  two  hours,  or  an  hour 
and  a  half,  whatever  time  was  allotted 
you — a  matter  of  one  or  two  hours, 
generally  speaking.  If  so,  if  you  can 
meet  these  challenges  to  endure  to  the 
end,  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  are 
yours. 

Then  you  can  say,  as  Paul  wrote  to 
Timothy,  "I  have  fought  a  good  fight, 
I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept 
the  faith: 

"Henceforth  there  is  laid  up  for  me 
a  crown  of  righteousness,  which  the 
Lord,  the  righteous  judge,  shall  give 
me  at  that  day:  and  not  to  me  only, 
but  unto  all  them  also  that  love  his 
appearing."  (2  Tim.  4:7-8.) 

May  the  Lord's  blessings  be  yours  to 
endure  the  trials  of  life  and  to  endure 
temptations,  to  endure  discouragement, 
to  endure  all  adversities  of  Satan. 
That  you  may  have  the  blessings  of 
joy  and  eternal  life  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

Elder  Critchlow 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J. 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

Last  year,  a  dignitary  of  a  great 
Protestant  church  visited  in  Ogden 
[Utah].  His  coming  was  announced 
in  the  press,  and  an  invitation  was 
extended  to  the  public  to  hear  him 
speak  on  the  subject  "Are  the  Mormons 
Christians?"  I  missed  his  sermon,  so  I 
wouldn't  know.  I  mean  I  wouldn't 
know  what  he  said. 

Are  Mormons  Christians? 

A  visitor  on  Temple  Square  turned 
to  a  tourist  at  his  side  and  asked,  "Are 
these  Mormons  Christians?"  Sensing 
the  pressure  of  the  crowd  about  him 
and  obviously  not  wishing  to  be  over- 
heard, the  tourist  answered,  almost  in 
a  whisper,  "Yes,  in  a  way,  but  they 
are  not  orthodox."  Then,  taking  his 
wife  by  the  arm,  he  squeezed  his  way 
out  of  the  crowd — purposely,  I  think, 
to  avoid  explaining  that  word  ortho- 
dox. The  visitor  who  asked  the  question 
would  probably  like  to  know  what  an 
orthodox  Christian  is.  So  would  I. 

Up  in  Huntsville,  Utah,  where 
President  McKay  was  born  and  reared 
and  where  he  still  resides  when  he  is 
not  in  his  apartment  in  Hotel  Utah,  a 
monastery  has  been  established.  I  asked 
its  abbot  why  his  church  came  to 
Huntsville  to  build  a  monastery  in 
President  McKay's  backyard,  in  a 
community  where  90  percent  of  the 
residents  are  Mormons,  in  a  state 
where  Mormons  constitute  a  substan- 
tial majority.  He  replied,  "To  bring 
Christianity  to  the  Mormons."  And  he 
was  not  speaking  facetiously. 

Characteristics  of  Christian  Creeds 

Last  year  a  Protestant  minister  on 
the  local  radio  program  "Public  Pulse" 
was  asked  by  one  of  his  listeners,  "Is 
there  any  basic,  hard-core  concept  that 
is  common  to,  and  characteristic  of,  all 
Christian  creeds?"  In  substance  his 
answer  was,  "Yes,  there  are  two.  The 
first  is  a  belief  in  a  God  to  whom  you 
can  ascribe  no  physical  characteristics. 
The  other  is  a  'concept  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  a  manifestation  of  God  in  the  flesh, 
who  came  to  establish  his  gospel  on 


43 

CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

the  earth.' "  Christian  churches  are 
vehicles  to  spread  it  around  the  world. 

Thanks  to  this  minister,  I  think  I 
now  know  what  the  tourist  on  Temple 
Square  meant  when  he  said,  "Yes,  in 
a  way  [the  Mormons  are  Christians], 
but  they  are  not  orthodox."  I  also  have 
a  faint  idea  of  what  the  minister  up 
Ogden  way  probably  said  in  this  ser- 
mon, "Are  the  Mormons  Christians?" 
Orthodoxy,  it  seems,  is  believing  a 
little;  unorthodoxy  is  believing  too 
much. 

A  Christian,  according  to  my  dic- 
tionary, is  one  who  "believes,  or  pro- 
fesses or  is  assumed  to  believe,  in  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  truth  as  taught  by 
him."  Under  that  broad  definition 
there  surely  ought  to  be  room  for  the 
abbot,  the  ministers,  even  myself,  to 
qualify  as  Christians  and  room  also  to 
disagree.  God,  whoever  and  wherever 
he  is,  would  be  pleased  to  have  his 
children,  regardless  of  creed  or  color, 
keep  the  commandments  he  gave  to 
ancient  Israel,  and  how  much  happier 
this  world  would  be  if  we  of  Christian 
faiths  would  follow  the  simple  teach- 
ings of  the  Christ.  I  am  a  Christian. 
My  dictionary  sustains  me.  I  believe 
in  Jesus  Christ  and  the  truth  as  taught 
by  him. 

My  acceptance  of  him  literally  as 
the  Son  of  God,  rather  than  as  a  mani- 
festation or  reincarnation  of  God,  must 
not  rule  me  out  of  the  Christian 
society.  Nor  should  my  belief  in  a  cor- 
poreal— flesh  and  bones — God  affect 
my  Christian  status.  And  because  I 
also  accept  the  Holy  Ghost  as  the  third 
person  in  the  Godhead,  I  should  not  be 
accused  of  believing  too  much  for  an 
orthodox  Christian. 

Characteristics  of  Latter-day 
Saint  Faith 

To  the  tourist,  who  may  still  be 
pondering  the  meaning  of  the  word 
"orthodox,"  and  to  all  of  you  listening 
in,  may  I  submit  three  really  basic, 
hard-core  godhead  concepts  that  truly 
are  characteristic  of  my  Latter-day 
Saint  faith: 


44  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

1. 1  affirm — we  affirm — the  existence 
of  a  true  and  living  God  in  whose 
image  and  likeness  man  was  created. 
He  has  "a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  as 
tangible  as  man's."  (D&C  130:22.) 
With  limbs,  he  can  stand  and  walk. 
In  his  head  are  eyes  to  see  lis,  ears  to 
hear  us,  a  mouth  to  speak  to  us.  Can 
anyone  explain  to  me  how  he: 
— without  a  mouth  can  speak?  (John 

12:28-29.) 

— without  eyes  can  see  what  his  chil- 
dren are  doing  here  on  earth? 

— without  ears  can  hear  my  prayers 
and  yours? 

My  God  is  capable  of  emotions  and 
passions,  else: 

— how  can  he  love?  He  did  so  love 
"the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only 
begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believ- 
eth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but 
have  everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.) 

— how  can  he  be  angry  when  his  chil- 
dren blaspheme  his  name  and  break 
his  commandments? 

— how  can  he  be  long  suffering?  merci- 
ful and  gracious? 

From  your  Bible  and  mine  I  quote: 
".  .  .  God  said,  Let  us  make  man  in 
our  image,  after  our  likeness.  .  .  . 

"So  God  created  man  in  his  own 
image,"  and  then,  as  if  by  way  of 
emphasis,  is  added  "in  the  image  of 
God  created  he  him.  .  .  ."  (Gen.  1: 
26-27.) 

This  God  of  mine  and  yours  has 
been  seen  and  heard.  In  company 
with  his  son  Jesus,  God  the  Father 
appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  great 
American  prophet.  Introducing  his 
son,  he  said,  " — This  is  My  Beloved 
Son,  Hear  Himl"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

The  apostle  John  wrote:  "And  this 
is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John 
17:3.) 

2.  I  affirm — we  affirm — that  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  the  Father  did  send,  is 
literally,  not  figuratively,  the  Son  of 
God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  Jesus  said 
he  was.  When  Caiaphas  on  that  fate- 
ful day  of  our  Savior's  trial  shouted, 
"Art  thou  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  Blessed?  .  .  .  Jesus  said,  I  am.  .  .  ." 
(Mark  14:61-62.)  His  mother  so 
claimed  him  (Luke  1:30-32);  so  did  his 


First  Day 

apostles  and  others.  (John  1:45-49, 
11:25-44;  Mark  15:39;  Matt.  14:33; 
Acts  9:17-20;  D&C  76:15-23.)  God  the 
Father  left  no  possible  room  for  doubt 
about  his  sonship;  four  times  are  re- 
corded in  which  he,  the  Father,  intro- 
duced Jesus  as  his  Son: 

1.  To  Joseph  Smith,  as  I  have  al- 
ready related. 

2.  On  the  occasion  of  Christ's  trans- 
figuration on  the  Mount.  (Mark  9:2-7.) 

3.  When  Jesus  made  a  personal  visit 
to  the  Nephites.  (3  Ne.  11:3-7.) 

4.  At  the  baptism  of  Jesus  by  the 
hands  of  John  the  Baptist.  (Matt.  3: 
13-17.)  This  particular  introduction  is 
narrated  by  Luke  in  these  words,  which 
are  almost  identical  with  those  of  the 
other  three  introductions:  "And  the 
Holy  Ghost  descended  in  a  bodily 
shape  like  a  dove  upon  him,  and  a 
voice  came  from  heaven,  which  said, 
Thou  art  my  beloved  Son;  in  thee  I  am 
well  pleased."  (Luke  3:22.) 

There  have  been  fathers  without 
sons,  but  whoever  heard  of  a  son 
without  a  father?  Jesus  is  no  exception. 
God  is  his  Father.  To  him  he  prayed 
and  to  him  he  counseled  us  to  pray. 
(Matt.  6:9-13.) 

Luke's  narrative  introduces  my  third 
hard-core  concept,  namely: 

3.  I  affirm — we  affirm — that  the 
Holy  Ghost  who  "descended  in  a 
bodily  shape  like  a  dove"  upon  Jesus 
is  the  third  member  of  the  Godhead. 
Unlike  Jesus  and  the  Father,  he  does 
not  have  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones 
but  is  a  personage  of  spirit — a  spirit 
entity.  Like  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
his  spirit  body  has  size  and  dimensions 
and  is  in  the  form  of  a  man,  not  a 
woman.  Whether  he,  in  time,  will  take 
to  himself  a  body  is  sheer  speculation. 

Some  people  who  are  given  to 
speculating  suspect  that  he  might  fol- 
low the  example  of  the  Savior,  who 
took  upon  himself  a  body  and  then 
laid  it  down  that  he  might  take  it  up 
again.  The  Savior  said  he  did  the 
things  he  saw  his  Father  do  before  him. 
(John  5:19-20.)  His  Father  took  unto 
himself  a  body.  I  would  not  dare  to 
deny  the  Holy  Ghost  that  same  privi- 
lege; neither  would  I  affirm  it  so. 
Some  things  we  do  not  know;  some 
things  we  are  not  now  supposed  to 


ELDER  WILLIAM 

know.  If  evil  spirits  can  enter  into 
and  thus  influence  mortal  bodies 
(Mark  5:1-12),  it  must  be  within  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  on  occasions 
similarly  to  contact  and  influence 
human  souls  for  good.  Perhaps  that's 
why  he  has  not  taken  upon  himself  a 
mortal  body. 

Spirit  matter  is  too  refined  to  be 
visible  to  the  physical  eye,  yet  God 
once  permitted  John  the  Baptist  to 
behold  the  descent  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
"in  a  bodily  shape"  when  John  bap- 
tized Jesus.  Like  a  dove  the  Holy  Ghost 
descended — not  in  the  form  of  a  dove, 
but  rather  in  the  sign  of  the  dove  in 
witness  of  that  administration.  In  ex- 
planation, the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
has  said,  "The  sign  of  the  dove  was 
instituted  before  the  creation  of  the 
world,  a  witness  for  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  the  devil  cannot  come  in  the  sign 
of  a  dove.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  a  person- 
age, and  is  in  the  form  of  a  personage. 
[He]  .  .  .  cannot  be  transformed  into 
a  dove;  but  the  sign  of  a  dove  ...  is 
an  emblem  or  token  of  truth  and 
innocence."  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  p.  276.) 

Again,  like  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
the  Holy  Ghost  can  only  be  in  one 
place  at  a  time,  and  he  cannot  trans- 
form himself  into  any  other  form  or 
image.  To  affirm  omnipresence  of  the 
personage  of  the  Holy  Ghost  overstates 
divine  purpose.  However,  his  power 
and  intelligence  are  omnipresent  in 
perhaps  the  same  way  the  light  of 
Christ  fills  the  immensity  of  space  and 
is  everywhere  present.  Who  can  affirm 
that  the  two  are  not  in  some  way 
correlated  agencies  or  powers  through 
which  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  administer- 
ing his  affairs,  sends  forth  his  gifts? 
(Moro.  10:17;  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
Doctrines  of  Salvation,  Vol.  1,  p.  54.) 

His  mission  is  to  testify  of  Christ 
and  to  bear  record  of  the  Father  as 
well  as  the  Son  and  to  all  truth.  (John 
15:26;  Doctrines  of  Salvation,  Vol.  1, 
p.  38.) 

Sometimes  he  is  referred  to  as  the 
Messenger  for  the  Father  and  the  Son. 
Other  times  he  is  called  the  Comforter. 
As  such  he  assuages  sorrow,  gives  hope 
to  dispirited  persons,  and  soothes 
wounded  hearts  and  feelings. 


.  CRITCHLOW,  JR.  45 

He  is  often  called  the  Teacher.  The 
apostle  John  said,  ".  .  .  he  shall  teach 
you  all  things  and  bring  all  things  to 
your  remembrance.  .  .  ."  (John  14:26.) 

He  is  also  a  Revelator.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said,  "No  man  can  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost  without  receiving 
revelations.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  a 
revelator."  (Documentary  History  of 
the  Church,  Vol.  6,  p.  58.) 

".  .  .  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is 
the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(1  Cor.  12:3;  D&C  46:13.) 

By  his  power  one  may  know  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true.  (Moro. 
10:4.) 

He  is  the  Holy  Spirit  of  Promise 
who  "places  the  stamp  of  approval 
upon  every  ordinance:  baptism,  con- 
firmation, ordination,  marriage.  The 
promise  is  that  the  blessings  will  be 
received  through  faithfulness."  (Doc- 
trines of  Salvation,  Vol.  1,  p.  45.  Italics 
added.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  told 
that  "all  covenants,  contracts,  bonds, 
obligations,  oaths,  vows,  performances, 
connections,  associations,  or  expecta- 
tions" must  be  sealed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  Promise  if  they  are  to  have 
"efficacy,  virtue,  or  force  in  and  after 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead;  for  all 
contracts  that  are  not  made  unto  this 
end  have  an  end  when  men  are  dead." 
(D&C  132:7.)  Some  of  the  Saints,  I 
fear,  fail  to  realize  that  he  who  places 
the  seal  upon  the  ordinances  has  power 
also  to  remove  the  seal  when  covenants 
are  broken.  How  important  it  is  that 
we  remain  faithful  Saints  to  the  very 
end. 

The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  be- 
stowed after  baptism  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands  by  those  who  hold  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood.  This  priesthood 
ordinance  was  carefully  preserved 
from  the  Adamic  dispensation  and  was 
fully  understood  in  the  meridian  of 
time.  ".  .  .  when  Paul  had  laid  his 
hands  upon  them,  the  Holy  Ghost 
came  on  them;  and  they  spake  with 
tongues,  and  prophesied."  (Acts  19:6.) 
Once,  one  Simon  Magus  made  over- 
tures with  money,  "saying,  Give  me 
also  this  power,  that  on  whomsoever 
I  lay  hands,  he  may  receive  the  Holy 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

Ghost."  Peter's  rebuke  stunned  him: 
"Thy  money  perish  with  thee,  because 
thou  hast  thought  that  the  gift  of  God 
may  be  purchased  with  money."  (Acts 
8:19-20.) 

Now,  what  I  have  been  trying  to  say 
in  a  profusion  of  words — and  I  offer 
it  as  my  witness — is  this: 

The  basic  testimony  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint 

I  believe — "We  believe  in  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(First  article  of  faith.) 


First  Day 

We  believe  in  God  the  Father,  the 
Planner,  Elohim  by  name;  Jesus 
the  Son,  the  Creator,  the  Jehovah 
of  the  Old  Testament;  the  Holy  Ghost, 
the  Testator,  Revelator,  Comforter. 

The  greatest  gift  God  has  bestowed 
upon  us,  his  errant  children,  is  the 
gift  of  his  Only  Begotten  Son— our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  The  next 
precious  gift,  I  think,  is  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Following  that  I  would 
rate  priesthood — the  great  power  of 
God. 

Crowning  these  is  the  gift  of  eternal 
life. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


When  the  history  of  our  time  is 
written,  it  might  well  describe  our 
generation  as  the  one  that  has  in- 
creased learning  and  scientific  accom- 
plishment to  an  extent  far  beyond  the 
achievement  of  any  preceding  genera- 
tion. We  are  constantly  amazed  at 
modern  development,  yet  we  have 
learned  to  expect  the  ever-expanding 
progress  stemming  from  the  mind  of 
man  and  as  the  result  of  his  genius. 

"A  little  lower  than  the  angels" 

"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast 
crowned  him  with  glory  and  honour." 
(Ps.  8:4-5.) 

The  evidence  of  man's  accomplish- 
ments has  firmly  planted  in  the 
modern  mind  the  conviction  of  man's 
greatness — just  a  little  lower  than  the 
angels  and  crowned  with  glory  and 
honor. 

Men  are  free  moral  agents 

Since  the  beginning,  men  have  been 
born  free  moral  agents  with  the  free- 
dom to  choose  between  good  or  evil. 
Even  in  the  preexistence  the  spirit 
children  of  the  father  had  their  choice. 

". . .  for,  behold,  the  devil  was  before 
Adam,  for  he  rebelled  against  me,  say- 


ing, Give  me  thine  honor,  which  is  my 
power;  and  also  a  third  part  of  the 
hosts  of  heaven  turned  he  away  from 
me  because  of  their  agency."  (D&C 
29:36.) 

This  same  choice  was  given  to  the 
first  man  placed  upon  the  earth,  for 
after  he  was  formed  and  placed  amid 
the  abundance  that  had  been  created, 
the  Lord  said:  "Of  every  tree  of  the 
garden  thou  mayest  freely  eat,  But  of 
the  tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and 
evil,  thou  shalt  not  eat  of  it,  neverthe- 
less, thou  mayest  choose  for  thyself. 
.  .  ."  (Moses  3:16-17.) 

When  the  children  of  Israel  stood  on 
the  threshold  of  the  Promised  Land, 
they  faced  the  choice  that  was  given  to 
them.  Israel  was  clearly  told  of  the 
consequences  of  its  decision.  There  was 
no  neutral  ground  in  the  statement  of 
the  Lord  to  them: 

"Behold,  I  set  before  you  this  day  a 
blessing  and  a  curse; 

A  blessing  and  a  curse 

"A  blessing,  if  ye  obey  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  your  God, 
which  I  command  you  this  day: 

"And  a  curse,  if  ye  will  not  obey  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  your  God. 
.  .  ."  (Deut.  11:26-28.) 

In  the  writings  of  Nephi  we  read  of 
the  instructions  given  by  Lehi  to  his 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


47 


sons  regarding  this  same  inherent 
agency:  "Wherefore,  men  are  free  ac- 
cording to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are 
given  them  which  are  expedient  unto 
man.  And  they  are  free  to  choose 
liberty  and  eternal  life,  through  the 
great  mediation  of  all  men,  or  to 
choose  captivity  and  death,  according 
to  the  captivity  and  power  of  the  devil; 
for  he  seeketh  that  all  man  might  be 
miserable  like  unto  himself."  (2  Ne. 
2:27.) 

Without  compulsion 

There  has  never  been  a  time  when 
man  has  been  forced  to  do  good  or 
forced  to  obey  the  commandments  of 
God.  He  has  always  been  given  his  free 
choice — his  free  moral  agency.  If  one 
looks  back  through  the  events  of  his- 
tory, there  come  into  view  the  results 
of  the  greatness  of  men  who  kept  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  and  made 
the  choice  on  his  side.  One  also  sees 
strewn  along  the  wayside  the  ruins 
that  stand  as  silent  reminders  of  those 
who  chose  otherwise.  Both  had  their 
free  moral  agency. 

In  spite  of  the  greatness  of  man  and 
his  accomplishments  in  the  modern 
world,  we  observe  the  lack  of  faith  in 
God  and  the  absence  of  repentance, 
which  has  also  been  characteristic  of 
those  in  the  past  who  would  not  heed 
the  commandments  of  God  or  the 
warnings  of  a  prophet.  Peace  does  not 
exist  among  men  today.  World  leaders 
appear  helpless  to  formulate  a  solution, 
and  many  of  them  have  no  regard  for 
the  principles  of  righteousness  that 
would  bring  peace.  The  Ten  Com- 
mandments and  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  have  been  set  aside  by  those 
who  formerly  professed  belief  in  them. 

Offenses  against  morality 

Morality  appears  to  have  been  lost 
in  the  maze  of  human  philosophies. 
We  see  it  in  the  lives  of  individuals, 
people  in  high  places  in  government, 
and  even  leaders  of  industry  and  labor. 
Many  churches  in  the  world  are  an- 
nouncing compromises  of  their  tenets  so 
as  not  to  offend  the  modern  thinking 
of  their  membership.  The  cry  has  gone 
up  from  some  pulpits  that  God  is  dead. 


When  God  ceases  to  live  in  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  men  and  women,  moral 
concepts  collapse  and  only  disaster  can 
result. 

In  this  community  crime  is  increas- 
ing. It  is  on  the  increase  in  all  states 
of  the  union  and  all  over  the  world. 
There  is  a  growing  disregard  for  law 
and  order,  a  turn  toward  riot  and  mob 
rule,  and  in  some  cases  total  defiance 
of  man's  basic  rights  of  life,  liberty, 
and  pursuit  of  happiness.  The  crimes 
of  our  generation  are  not  excelled  by 
any  of  the  past,  although  we  may 
read  history  and  cringe  at  the  atrocities. 

The  loss  of  morality  extends  up  to 
the  great  commanders  of  the  earth  as 
well  as  down  to  the  single  individual 
man.  The  stability  of  the  family  has 
been  affected,  as  demonstrated  by  the 
upsurge  of  the  divorce  rate.  Juvenile 
delinquency  is  accepted.  It  is  not  a 
matter  of  how  it  can  be  reduced,  but 
how  the  acceleration  can  be  held  in 
moderation,  as  one  authority  has 
stated.  The  use  of  liquor  and  addiction 
to  tobacco  are  on  the  increase;  sexual 
morality  is  being  scoffed  at  in  many 
modern  circles;  free  love  is  tolerated 
and  even  advocated;  venereal  diseases 
among  teen-agers  as  well  as  others 
have  taken  a  sharp  upturn.  In  short, 
the  will  to  resist  evil  seems  to  be  van- 
ishing. I  have  asked  myself,  and  I  ask 
you  this  question:  What  is  the  reason 
for  these  appalling  circumstances  in  a 
world  in  which  man  has  made  such 
outstanding  achievements  in  learning? 

Sin  alienates  man  from  God 

As  I  read  the  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ments and  also  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
I  find  that  man  has  two  theological 
concerns  involving  himself:  his  sins 
and  his  salvation.  When  man  sins  he 
suffers  its  painful  effects.  There  are 
few  chapters  in  these  books  that  do 
not  contain  some  reference  to  what  sin 
is  or  does.  The  predominant  conception 
of  the  nature  of  sin  in  these  books  is 
that  of  a  personal  alienation  from  God. 
We  must  conclude,  therefore,  that  the 
vanishing  resistance  to  evil  in  the 
world  is  caused  by  this  personal  aliena- 
tion from  our  Heavenly  Father. 


48  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Follow  the  course  of  righteousness 

Let  us  ask  this  question:  What 
causes  some  men  in  a  declining 
morality  to  shun  evil  and  wrongdoing 
and  to  follow  the  course  of  righteous- 
ness in  their  temporal,  moral,  and 
spiritual  lives?  In  my  mind,  there  are 
three  reasons  for  this  phenomenon,  and 
it  is  to  these  three  points  I  would  like 
to  address  my  remarks. 

The  first  is  fear.  It  is  said  that  man 
fears  God,  but  such  an  emotion  is 
ambiguous,  for  it  may  both  repel  and 
attract.  I  am  mindful  of  the  conclusion 
reached  by  the  writer  of  the  book  of 
Ecclesiastes  in  the  admonition:  Fear 
God,  and  keep  his  commandments. 
(Ecc.  12:13.)  The  word  fear  and  its 
synonyms  occur  several  hundred  times 
in  the  Bible,  and  I  believe  we  would 
agree  that  a  summary  of  scripture 
would  indicate  that  the  law  is  to  love 
the  Lord  absolutely  and  exclusively. 
Many  people,  however,  are  compelled 
to  do  good  because  of  fear — fear  of  the 
law,  fear  of  the  unknown,  fear  of  the 
Almighty.  In  the  book  of  Revelation, 
John  catalogues  fear  with  expressions 
of  other  evil  doings  in  these  words: 

"He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit 
all  things;  and  I  will  be  his  God,  and 
he  shall  be  my  son. 

"But  the  fearful,  and  unbelieving, 
and  the  abominable,  and  murderers, 
and  whoremongers,  and  sorcerers,  and 
idolaters,  and  all  liars,  shall  have  their 
part  in  the  lake  which  burnetii  with 
fire  and  brimstone.  . . ."  (Rev.  21:7-8.) 

Love  of  God  will  drive  out  fear 

To  the  restored  Church  the  Lord  has 
stated  time  and  time  again  that  fear 
is  not  of  God  and  will  not  enter  the 
hearts  of  those  who  love  the  Lord  and 
live  righteously:  "Wherefore,  be  of 
good  cheer,  and  do  not  fear,  for  I  the 
Lord  am  with  you,  and  will  stand  by 
you  "  (D&C  68:6.) 

There  are  many  people  who  live  the 
so-called  good  life  because  of  fear,  but 
as  Christians  we  must  not  serve  for  this 
reason.  Fear  must  be  banished  from 
our  hearts.  In  one  of  the  epistles  of 
John  he  wrote:  "There  is  no  fear  in 
love;  but  perfect  love  casteth  out  fear: 
because  fear  hath  torment.  He  that 


First  Day 

feareth  is  not  made  perfect  in  love." 
(1  John  4:18.) 

The  second  reason  for  men  to  shun 
evil,  pursue  righteousness,  and  serve 
their  fellowmen  is  duty.  Often  we 
hear  men  say  they  do  certain  things 
because  it  is  their  duty.  One  great 
writer  has  penned:  "The  duty  of  man 
.  .  .  is  plain  and  simple,  and  consists 
but  of  two  points — his  duty  to  God, 
which  every  man  must  feel;  and,  with 
respect  to  his  neighbor,  to  do  as  he 
would  be  done  by."  (Thomas  Paine) 
Do  we  have  a  responsibility  beyond 
that  which  it  is  our  duty  to  perform? 
The  parable  Jesus  gave  of  the  farmer 
and  his  servant  is  a  direct  answer  to 
this  question: 

"But  which  of  you,  having  a  servant 
plowing  or  feeding  cattle,  will  say  unto 
him  by  and  by,  when  he  is  come  from 
the  field,  Go  and  sit  down  to  meat? 

"And  will  not  rather  say  unto  him, 
Make  ready  wherewith  I  may  sup,  and 
gird  thyself,  and  serve  me,  till  I  have 
eaten  and  drunken;  and  afterward  thou 
shalt  eat  and  drink? 

"Doth  he  thank  that  servant  because 
he  did  the  things  that  were  com- 
manded him?  I  trow  not. 

"So  likewise  ye,  when  ye  shall  have 
done  all  those  things  which  are  com- 
manded you,  say,  We  are  unprofitable 
servants:  we  have  done  that  which  was 
our  duty  to  do."  (Luke  17:7-10.) 

Even  though  the  servant  had  come 
in  from  the  field  tired  and  weary,  it 
was  his  duty  to  gird  himself  and  serve 
his  master's  meal.  It  was  never  sup- 
posed that  the  master  would  wait  on 
the  servant.  The  servant  is  expected  to 
wait  on  the  master.  He  does  not  expect 
a  word  of  appreciation,  because  under 
his  agreement  he  is  only  doing  that 
which  was  his  duty  to  do.  Men  who 
only  carry  out  that  which  is  within 
their  duty  and  go  no  further  have  no 
claim  to  any  reward  beyond  the  scope 
of  that  duty  and  are  unprofitable  ser- 
vants. 

Love  of  God  makes  obedience 
easy  and  natural 

The  Lord  requires  obedience  not 
because  it  is  our  duty  nor  because  we 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


49 


fear  him.  Let  me  read  from  the  58th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I 
should  command  in  all  things;  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the 
same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  ser- 
vant; wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be 
anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and 
do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will, 
and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in 
nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doeth  not  anything 
until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart, 
and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the 
same  is  damned. 

"Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith 
the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless 
that  obeys  not  my  commandments?" 
(D&C  58:26-30.) 

Now  I  come  to  the  third  reason, 
which  in  my  opinion  ought  to  be  the 
objective  of  all  men  everywhere.  The 
greatest  motivating  influence  for 
righteousness  and  for  service  to  one's 
fellowmen  is  the  divine  principle  of 
love.  The  answer  Jesus  gave  to  the 
scribe  is  a  summary  of  the  law: 

Love  of  God  and  of  man 

"And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and 
with  all  thy  strength:  this  is  the  first 
commandment 

"And  the  second  is  like,  namely  this, 
Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thy- 
self. There  is  none  other  command- 
ment greater  than  these."  (Mark 
12:30-31.) 

Jesus  revealed  the  meaning  of  love 
by  his  life,  and  the  perfect  example  of 
love  was  given  to  us  by  the  Father  in 
the  offering  of  his  divine  Son: 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that 
he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life." 
(John  3:16.) 

"If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and 
hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a  liar:  for  he 
that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he 


hath  seen,  how  can  he  love  God  whom 
he  hath  not  seen? 

"And  this  commandment  have  we 
from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God 
love  his  brother  also."  (1  John  4:20- 
21.) 

The  logic  of  this  is  simple,  clear,  and 
unequivocal:  the  proof  of  love  of  God 
is  love  of  one's  brother.  This  becomes 
the  fundamental  commandment  of 
Christianity.  This  was  the  religion 
taught  by  the  Master.  How  happy 
would  society  be  were  these  two  plain, 
rational  precepts  properly  observed: 
Love  me,  and  love  thy  fellows. 

The  way  to  peace  and  goodwill 
among  men 

The  living  of  this  commandment  by 
all  men  would  restore  peace  to  the 
earth.  It  would  cause  them  to  love  the 
Lord  and  thereby  keep  his  command- 
ments; thus  the  troubles  of  our  age 
would  vanish,  and  man's  happiness  in 
a  moral  world  would  result.  The 
motivating  influences  generated  within 
man  through  fear,  his  obligation  to 
duty,  or  deep  sense  of  love  can  turn 
the  tide  of  the  declining  morality  of 
our  generation.  The  greatest  of  these  is 
love.  We  must  strive  to  obtain  this 
virtue  if  we  are  to  serve  the  Lord 
without  faltering  or  growing  weary  in 
our  pursuit  of  eternal  life.  We  will  do 
this  not  because  of  fear,  nor  merely 
because  it  is  our  duty,  but  because  we 
have  sought  for  and  obtained  the 
greatest  of  all  virtues,  love. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  our 
Father,  that  he  has  given  to  each  of 
his  sons  and  daughters  free  moral 
agency,  that  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  through  love,  gave  his  life 
that  each  of  us  may  have  eternal  life. 
I  pray  that  we  shall  exercise  that 
agency  which  we  have  been  given  by 
loving  the  Lord  and  our  neighbor,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 

Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses  will  now  favor  us 


50  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

with  "Hosanna  to  the  Son  of  David," 
conducted  by  John  R.  Halliday. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Lewis  Milton  Jones,  president  of 
the  Norwalk  (California)  Stake. 

As  heretofore  announced,  the  sing- 
ing for  this  session  has  been  furnished 
by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Dr.  John  R.  Halliday,  with 
Brother  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

In  behalf  of  all  who  have  listened 
to  the  singing  during  this  session  of 
the  General  Conference,  we  express 
appreciation  and  thanks  to  these  young 
students  for  their  beautiful  music.  God 
bless  them  for  the  service  they  have 
rendered  in  this  session. 

Tomorrow  and  Friday  the  officers 
and  teachers  of  the  Primary  Association 
will  assemble  in  this  building  for 
their  annual  general  conference. 

We  wish  to  commend  the  General 
Primary  Presidency,  members  of  the 
General  Board,  and  stake  and  ward 
officers  for  their  unselfish  service  to 
the  children  of  the  Church.  May  God 
bless  them  for  their  faithfulness  and 
loyalty] 

The  Saturday  morning  session  of  the 
Conference  will  be  broadcast  direct  by 
numerous  radio  and  television  stations, 
and  recorded  for  transmission  on  Sun- 
day morning  to  many  television  sta- 
tions in  the  eastern  and  central  parts 
of  the  United  States. 

Morning  sessions  of  Saturday  and 
Sunday  will  be  carried  from  the  Tab- 
ernacle over  oceanic  cables  to  a  large 
number  of  Saints  assembled  in  over 

  chapels   throughout  Great 

Britain  and  Germany  on  Sunday. 

Both  sessions  of  our  Conference  to- 
day, and  Saturday  and  Sunday,  will  be 
re-broadcast  over  KSL  Radio  and 
KIRO  Radio  at  Seattle  the  following 
morning  starting  at  one  o'clock,  and 


First  Day 

will  be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  the  world,  includ- 
ing Canada,  Mexico,  Alaska,  and  the 
islands  of  the  Pacific. 

A  video-tape  of  Saturday  morning's 
session  of  Conference  will  be  flown 
from  the  mainland  and  broadcast  over 
three  television  stations  Sunday  morn- 
ing in  Hawaii. 

A  special  Priesthood  Home  Teaching 
Conference  will  be  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Friday,  April  8,  at  7  p.m.,  under 
the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency. 
Those  especially  invited  to  attend  are: 
The  General  Authorities,  members  of 
all  General  Priesthood  Committees, 
members  of  all  Stake  and  Mission 
Home  Teaching  Committees,  members 
of  Ward  and  Branch  Home  Teaching 
Committees,  and  all  Home  Teachers. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare-Agricultural 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  Satur- 
day morning  at  7:30  o'clock  to  9:30 
a.m.  Stake  Presidencies,  Stake  High 
Councilmen,  Bishoprics,  Welfare  Ad- 
visers from  all  Stakes,  and  all  others 
interested  in  agriculture,  are  invited 
to  attend  this  meeting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses  will  now  favor  us 
with  "Hosanna  to  the  Son  of  David," 
conducted  by  John  R.  Halliday. 

After  the  benediction  by  President 
Lewis  Milton  Jones  of  the  Norwalk 
Stake,  the  General  Session  of  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  10 
o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang 
"Hosanna  to  the  Son  of  David,"  fol- 
lowing which  the  closing  prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  Lewis  Milton  Jones, 
president  of  Norwalk  Stake. 
Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
o'clock,  Saturday  morning,  April  9, 
1966. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 
SECOND  DAY 


51 


MORNING  MEETING 


Saturday,  April  9 

The  third  session  of  the  conference 
convened  promptly  at  10:00  a.m.  Presi- 
dent McKay  was  present  and  presided. 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Coun- 
sellor in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
conference  was  furnished  by  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner,  at  the  organ. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  David  O.  McKay  is  present 
this  morning  and  is  presiding  at  this 
session.  He  has  asked  me  to  conduct 
this  meeting.  He  joins  in  extending  a 
cordial  welcome  to  all  present  this 
morning  in  this  historic  tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Also 
to  the  vast  television  and  radio  audi- 
ence throughout  the  world  we  bid 
you  welcome  to  this  session  of  the 
136th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing  "God's 
Son  Hath  Set  Me  Free."  Following 
the  singing  the  invocation  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  C.  Mark  Wright, 
president  of  the  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

The  Choir  sang  "God's  Son  Hath 
Set  Me  Free." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  C.  Mark  Wright,  president  of 
Mill  Creek  Stake. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
favor  us  with  "Hosanna,  Christ  Is 
Risen,"  Albert  Fallows,  soloist.  Fol- 
lowing the  singing  Elder  Robert  L. 
Simpson  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
will  speak  to  us. 

The  Choir  sang,  "Hosanna  Christ  is 
Risen,"  Albert  Fallows,  soloist. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


Once  again  in  the  tradition  of  the 
[Easter]  season  all  Christendom  pauses 
with  bowed  head  and  contrite  heart 
to  contemplate  the  terrible  agony,  the 
pain,  the  suffering,  and  the  indignities 
of  the  Lord  and  Savior  of  the  world 
as  he  gave  himself  to  be  crucified  for 
the  sins  of  all  mankind. 

The  assurance  of  Easter 

But  with  the  rising  of  the  sun  of 
another  Easter  morning,  there  also 
wells  up  within  each  of  us  a  glorious 
assurance  of  hope,  a  brilliant  ray  of 
peace,  for  he  lives  1  Death  is  over- 
come!   And  life  will  be  eternal. 

Let  us  suppose  that  by  some  miracu- 
lous arrangement  the  privilege  would 


be  granted  for  each  to  spend  one 
precious  minute  in  private  audience 
with  the  resurrected  Christ  this  Easter 
day.  What  would  you  do?  What 
would  you  say?  Surely  there  would 
be  great  emotion  because  of  your  love 
for  him.  Then  I  am  certain  that 
many  would  ask  the  simple  question: 
"What  would  thou  have  me  do?"  and 
he  might  conceivably  answer,  "If  ye 
love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 
(John  14:15.) 

".  .  .  Feed  my  sheep."  (John  21:16.) 

Or  might  it  be,  ".  .  .  love  thy  neigh- 
bour as  thyself."  (Matt.  19:19.) 

There  is  no  reason  to  believe  that 
his  counsel  and  advice  today  would 
be  any  different  than  it  was  2,000 


52  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

years  ago.  For  his  house  is  a  house 
of  order.  His  gospel  is  the  same  yes- 
terday, today,  and  forever. 

"Where  treasure  is  ...  " 

And  because  he  would  be  most 
anxious  for  us  to  overcome  selfishness 
and  lack  of  faith,  which  I  believe  are 
the  two  major  sources  of  man's  prob- 
lems today,  don't  you  think  he  might 
have  some  advice  to  give  with  respect 
to  the  mastery  over  worldly  possessions, 
for  surely  "where  your  treasure  is, 
there  will  your  heart  be  also."  (Matt. 
6:21.)  Yes,  this  great  principle  of 
faith  and  the  willingness  to  share  our 
temporal  increase  go  hand  in  hand. 

In  fact,  someone  has  properly  ob- 
served that  it  doesn't  take  money  to 
pay  tithing — it  takes  faith. 

In  this  respect,  I  shall  always  re- 
member the  faith  of  an  old  Maori 
brother  in  New  Zealand.  As  the  mis- 
sionaries came  to  his  humble  little 
fishing  shack  located  well  off  the 
beaten  track,  he  hurried  to  find  an 
envelope  that  contained  a  letter  ad- 
dressed to  him  and  in  which  he  had 
also  stuffed  a  sizable  sum  of  hard- 
earned  money.  He  promptly  handed 
the  envelope  containing  the  money 
and  letter  to  the  missionaries.  This 
fine  brother  didn't  have  the  ability  to 
read  the  letter  when  it  arrived,  for  it 
was  written  in  English  and  his  tongue 
was  Maori,  but  he  could  read  the 
financial  figures  contained  in  it,  and 
he  recognized  the  letterhead  as  being 
from  the  mission  office.  He  thought 
the  mission  needed  the  cash  amount 
mentioned  for  some  special  purpose, 
and  he  had  it  all  ready  for  the  mis- 
sionaries. After  translating  the  letter 
for  him,  it  was  now  clear  that  the 
letter  merely  confirmed  his  annual 
tithing  settlement  and  stated  the  total 
amount  paid  for  the  previous  year. 
His  faith  was  such  that  he  stood  ready 
to  pay  the  same  amount  all  over  again 
if  the  Lord's  servants  needed  it  for 
the  work. 

Now  while  I  have  you  down  in  New 
Zealand,  let  me  tell  you  about  a  beau- 
tiful little  white  chapel  located  in 
Maromaku  Valley.  About  twenty-five 
years  ago  Brother  Matthew  Cowley, 
who  was  then  the  New  Zealand  Mis- 


Second  Day 

sion  president,  wrote  to  President 
[Heber  J.]  Grant  and  his  counselors, 
telling  them  of  this  faithful  branch  of 
English  members.  He  expressed  a 
recommendation  that  because  of  their 
devotion  and  outstanding  tithing  rec- 
ord over  many  years,  a  modest  chapel 
be  built  for  them  without  local  partici- 
pation, entirely  from  the  general  tith- 
ing funds  of  the  Church.  Soon  the 
answer  came  back  that  the  recom- 
mendation was  approved.  Immediately 
a  special  meeting  was  called  in  the 
community  schoolhouse,  and  for  the 
first  time  these  wonderful  people  heard 
what  had  transpired  in  their  behalf. 

The  law  of  giving 

At  first  they  just  sat.  No  one  seemed 
particularly  elated  by  the  news,  and 
then,  one  by  one,  each  family  head 
stood  to  explain  how  he  would  be 
disappointed  if  he  were  not  allowed 
to  accept  financial  responsibility  for  a 
certain  phase  of  the  proposed  chapel. 
Within  twenty  minutes,  the  entire 
amount  had  been  subscribed  to.  These 
faithful  people  were  in  the  habit  of 
going  the  extra  mile  in  helping  to 
finance  the  needs  of  the  kingdom,  and 
this  is  the  way  they  wanted  it.  You 
see,  people  overcome  selfish  desires  as 
they  practice  the  Lord's  law  of  giving. 

Just  last  week  a  man  said:  "Today's 
cost  of  living  makes  it  impossible  for 
me  to  consider  ten  percent  of  my  in- 
come for  tithing."  By  every  standard 
of  today's  economic  and  financial 
teaching  as  figured  by  the  mind  of 
man,  his  reasoning  seems  justified.  But 
the  spiritual  law  is  different.  Do  you 
remember  how  perplexed  the  multitude 
was  when  the  Savior  said  this:  "He 
that  findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it:  and 
he  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake  shall 
find  it"?  (Matt.  10:39.)  Hqw  much 
like  this  law  is  the  law  of  tithing, 
wherein  we  receive  by  giving  away.  It 
just  doesn't  add  up  by  worldly  stan- 
dards, and  most  men  consider  such 
teachings  impractical  and  even  ab- 
stract. 

Giving  opens  "the  windows 
of  heaven" 

But  it  works  1    And  hundreds  of 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


53 


thousands  can  bear  that  witness  today 
because  their  faith  has  been  such  that 
they  were  willing  to  accept  God's  in- 
vitation when  he  said:  "Bring  ye  all 
the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that 
there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house,  and 
prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord 
of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out 
a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it."  (Mai. 
3:10.)  No  business  proposition  in  all 
this  wide  world  can  begin  to  match 
this  offer.  Here  is  the  only  real  an- 
swer to  today's  cost  of  living.  We 
can't  make  the  family  budget  stretch 
far  enough  on  our  own,  so  we  had 
better  form  a  partnership  with  the 
Lord  by  giving  ten  percent  to  him.  "I, 
the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what 
I  say";  and  then  he  concludes,  "but 
when  ye  do  not  what  I  say,  ye  have  no 
promise."  (D&C  82:10.)  Now,  it  is  just 
that  simple.  And  when  we  decide  to 
accept  his  terms,  we'll  be  amazed  to 
learn  that  we  can  do  far  better  on 
$9.00  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  than 
we  can  with  $10.00  on  our  own. 

Many  of  us  remember  the  tremen- 
dous enthusiasm  of  President  Stephen 
L  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency  on 
the  subject  of  "tithing."  He  had  this 
to  say  concerning  partnership  with 
God:  "I  like  to  think  of  the  Lord  as  a 
partner  because  the  essence  of  partner- 
ship is  a  sharing  of  profits.  It  is 
however  indispensible  in  a  partnership 
that  there  shall  also  be  a  sharing  of 
the  burdens  of  the  enterprise.  The 
honor  and  the  satisfaction  that  come 
to  one  in  realization  that  he  lives  his 
life  in  partnership  with  God  is  to  me 
a  lofty  and  exalting  thought.  One 
cannot  hope  to  realize  the  profits  from 
that  venture  without  bearing  his  por- 
tion of  the  expense — the  giving  which 
is  requisite." 

President  Richards  went  on  to  say 
that  our  part  of  that  partnership  could 
only  be  confirmed  through  the  pay- 
ment of  an  honest  tithe. 

Spiritual  power  comes 

He  also  made  this  observation  with 
regard  to  the  spiritual  power  that 
comes  to  one  who  is  willing  to  give 


of  his  substance  to  the  Lord:  "Obser- 
vance of  tithing  brings  spiritual  power 
and  after  all,  that  to  me,  is  the  main 
thing.  Religion  is  more  than  mere 
repose  or  relaxation.  It  is  positive 
spiritual  exercise.  It  makes  for  the 
growth  of  the  soul,  it  cultivates  all  of 
the  virtues.  So  one  who  is  serious 
about  religion  will  be  willing  to  give 
to  it  the  things  which  are  vital  to 
himself."  (Stephen  L  Richards,  The 
Law  of  Tithing,  Deseret  News  Press.) 

I  want  to  share  with  you  the  testi- 
mony of  a  wonderful  brother  who  had 
been  impressed  by  one  of  the  Church 
leaders  as  he  explained  the  law  of 
tithing.  Meeting  him  on  the  street 
about  three  months  later,  he  took  some 
money  from  his  pocket  and  said:  "Do 
you  see  this?  It  is  all  mine.  It  does 
not  belong  to  the  butcher,  the  baker, 
or  the  loan  agency.  For  the  first  time 
in  my  life  I  am  free  of  debt.  I  can 
walk  down  either  side  of  the  street 
with  my  head  held  high.  I  no  longer 
have  to  cross  from  side  to  side,  avoid- 
ing the  shopkeepers  holding  my  de- 
linquent accounts." 

Then  he  went  on  to  tell  how  all 
this  came  about  because  he  took  time 
to  sit  down  with  his  family,  and  they 
decided  how  they  were  going  to  meet 
their  obligation  to  the  Lord. 

Peace  of  mind 

This  man  has  peace  of  mind  today. 
He  is  now  a  leader  in  a  branch  of  the 
Church  and  a  blessing  to  scores  of 
other  people.  While  wearing  the 
chains  of  indebtedness,  he  was  literally 
in  bondage  and  unavailable  to  the 
Lord  for  service.  Tithing  had  been 
the  answer,  and  he  found  financial 
freedom. 

Integrity 

The  personnel  manager  in  a  large 
Los  Angeles  plant,  who  is  not  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  relates  this  story: 
"I  asked  one  of  your  returned  mission- 
aries seeking  employment  with  our 
firm  if  he  paid  his  tithing,  and  when 
he  said  'yes>'  I  hired  him  on  the  spot. 
I  knew  that  he  would  be  a  man  of 
integrity,  I  knew  that  he  loved  the 


54  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

Lord,  and  I  also  knew  that  he  would 
be  true  to  his  wife." 

So  you  see,  brothers  and  sisters,  the 
payment  of  tithing  means  many  things 
to  many  people. 

We  often  hear  the  comment:  "I  be- 
lieve all  you  say  about  tithing,  but  I 
am  so  hopelessly  in  debt  right  now  I 
will  have  to  wait  until  next  year  to 
start."  The  only  trouble  with  that  is 
that  next  year  never  comes.  Meet 
with  your  bishop  right  away  and  re- 
ceive his  kindly  counsel.  Then  call 
a  special  meeting  of  all  the  family. 
Invite  them  to  participate  in  the  pos- 
sible solutions  to  the  problem.  Maybe 
your  son  Johnny  ends  up  with  a  paper 
route — that's  great!  And  teen-ager 
Susan  finds  work  on  Saturdays — won- 
derful! I  think  all  of  our  teen-agers 
should  learn  well  this  wonderful  prin- 
ciple of  work.  Not  only  that,  but  the 
entire  family  might  agree  to  rough  it 
for  a  few  years  by  settling  on  a  five- 
year-old  car  that  uses  regular  gas  and 
has  roll-up  windows.  This  important 
family  meeting  on  finances  could  be 
the  turning  point  toward  eternal  ex- 
altation and  salvation. 

Obedience  born  of  love 

Few  topics  have  received  as  much 
time  and  attention  from  this  pulpit  as 
has  the  subject  of  tithing.  There  is 
good  reason  for  such  emphasis.  Com- 
pliance to  the  great  law  of  tithing 
develops  and  trains  men  in  the  vital 
attribute  of  obedience,  which  has  been 
referred  to  as  the  first  law  of  heaven. 
It  trains  men  in  the  vital  attribute 
of  faith,  without  which  there  can  be 
little  hope  for  anyone,  and  also  in  the 
vital  attribute  of  unselfishness,  man's 
most  immediate  need  for  solving  the 
world's  dilemmas  in  this  day  of  hate, 
greed,  and  distrust. 

Speaking  through  the  Psalmist, 
the  Lord  declared:  ".  .  .  the  world 
is  mine,  and  the  fulness  thereof." 
(Ps.  50:12.)  He  doesn't  really  need 
our  ten  percent — it  is  all  his  in  the 
first  place — but  we  need  the  experi- 
ence of  giving.  Just  as  the  Sabbath  was 
created  for  man  rather  than  man  for 
the  Sabbath,  so  it  is  with  tithing: 
the  value  of  the  human  soul  is  most 


Second  Day 

important.  ".  .  .  my  work  and  my 
glory,"  the  Lord  declares,  is  "to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.)  There  is 
no  thought  more  compatible  with  the 
spirit  of  Easter  than  that. 

The  God  and  Creator  of  heaven  and 
earth  could  surely  lay  all  the  riches 
of  the  world  at  the  feet  of  his  leaders 
here  in  mortality  if  this  were  the  im- 
portant factor.  But  most  important 
is  that  we  demonstrate  our  love  for 
God  by  making  our  means  available  to 
him  according  to  his  perfect  plan  and 
supreme  wisdom. 

The  Lord's  tenth  blesses  people 

Each  dollar  of  tithing  expenditure  is 
for  the  blessing  of  people,  the  edifica- 
tion of  the  soul,  the  perfection  of  man; 
and  in  this,  all  who  participate  can 
find  added  comfort  in  the  Savior's  ob- 
servation that  "inasmuch  as  ye  have 
done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these 
my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto 
me."  (Matt.  25:40.)  We  make  won- 
derful things  possible  for  many  won- 
derful people  when  we  return  the 
Lord's  tenth  to  him. 

I  bear  solemn  witness  to  all  who  can 
hear  that  the  law  of  tithing  is  God- 
given  and  that  the  purpose  for  which 
these  sacred  funds  are  used  is  sancti- 
fied by  divine  direction. 

Old  Testament  prophets  taught  the 
law  of  tithing,  for  they  said:  "Honour 
the  Lord  with  thy  substance,  and  with 
the  first-fruits  of  all  thine  increase: 

"Lay  up  treasures"  by  love 
and  obedience 

"So  shall  thy  barns  be  filled  with 
plenty,  and  thy  presses  shall  burst  out 
with  new  wine."  (Prov.  3:9-10.)  This 
admonition  has  never  been  rescinded. 

On  one  occasion  just  prior  to  that 
first  Easter  morning  two  thousand 
years  ago,  the  Savior  admonished  his 
disciples:  "Lay  not  up  for  yourselves 
treasures  upon  earth,  where  moth  and 
rust  doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves 
break  through  and  steal: 

"But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures 
in  heaven,  where  neither  moth  nor 
rust  doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves 
do  not  break  through  nor  steal: 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


55 


"For  where  your  treasure  is,  there 
will  your  heart  be  also."  (Matt. 
6:19-21.) 

Break  the  chains  of  selfishness. 

To  justify  the  purpose  of  the  Savior's 
suffering  and  to  fulfill  the  opportunity 
that  he  has  afforded  us  of  life  eternal, 
man  must  break  the  restricting  chains 
of  selfishness.  There  is  no  better  way 
than  to  do  it  in  the  Lord's  way.  He 
gave  his  life  that  we  might  truly  live, 
not  just  exist.  He  established  the  pat- 
tern, declaring:  "I  am  the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  life.  .  .  ."  (John  14:6.) 
He  beckons  all  to  "come  .  .  .  follow 
me."  (Matt.  19:21.)  He  pleads  with 
seemingly  indifferent  children:  "If  ye 
love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 
(John  14:15.)  He  says  that  if  we  are 
to  preserve  life,  we  must  be  prepared 
to  give  it  away — our  time  to  the  bless- 
ings and  comfort  and  edification  of 
others,  our  means  to  the  building  of 
the  kingdom  and  the  blessings  of 
mankind  here  and  now. 

"Prove  me  now  .  .  ." 

Yes,  in  my  opinion,  God  issued  the 
challenge  of  the  ages  when  he  said: 
".  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,"  and 
followed  it  quickly  with  a  resulting 
promise  that  he  would  "open  you 
the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you 
out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not 
be  room  enough  to  receive  it."  (Mai. 
3:10.) 

Control  of  "the  windows  of 
heaven"  is  in  your  hands 

There  has  never  been  a  more  defi- 


nite promise  than  this.  Let  us  not 
forget  that  the  "windows  of  heaven" 
can  only  be  operated  by  the  remote 
control  switch  in  our  hand.  We  must 
make  the  first  move.  This  is  the  very 
foundation  of  the  eternal  principle  of 
faith.  Once  that  faith  has  been 
demonstrated,  God  stands  ready  and 
anxious  to  fulfill  his  part  of  the 
agreement. 

May  the  spirit  of  Easter  and  the 
sure  knowledge  that  he  lives  permeate 
our  hearts  this  day.  May  his  great 
atoning  sacrifice  be  a  constant  re- 
minder of  the  relatively  insignificant 
sacrifices  expected  of  us,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Following  a  brief  organ  interlude 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  "I 
Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 
Many  stations  have  just  tuned  in  on 
this  conference  and  we  wish  to  extend 
a  hearty  welcome  to  them. 


Organ  interlude  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Singing  by  the  Choir,  "I 
Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  David  O.  McKay,  presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


".  .  .  Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
which  was  crucified:  he  is  risen;  he  is 
not  here:  behold  the  place  where  they 
laid  him."  (Mark  16:6.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  com- 
mend to  all  the  excellent  sermon  just 
delivered  by  one  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  of  the  Church,  Bishop  Simp- 
son.  I  am  grateful  and  happy  to  meet 


with  you  and  worship  with  you  this 
morning  in  this  historic  building  in  a 
general  conference  of  the  Church. 

I  extend  greetings  and  my  blessings 
to  you  and  to  our  vast  audience  of 
members  and  friends  who  are  tuned  in 
by  radio  and  television.  It  is  a  joy  and 
a  privilege  to  be  associated  with  you  in 
this  great  latter-day  work. 


56 

Saturday,  April  9 

The  resurrection  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ 

As  I  stand  before  you  to  give  you  a 
message  regarding  the  resurrection  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray 
for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  that  he 
might  uphold  me,  and  that  he  may 
enlighten  our  minds  to  see,  and  touch 
our  hearts  to  feel  more  deeply  than 
mere  words  can  denote  the  significance 
of  this  message. 

Throughout  Christendom  we  are 
celebrating,  this  Eastertide,  the  great- 
est event  of  all  history — the  literal 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ.  For  over 
four  thousand  years,  man  had  looked 
into  the  grave  and  had  seen  only  the 
end  of  life.  Of  all  the  millions  who 
had  entered  therein,  not  one  person 
had  ever  returned  as  a  resurrected,  im- 
mortal being.  "There  was  in  all 
earth's  area,  not  one  empty  grave.  No 
human  heart  believed;  no  human  voice 
declared  that  there  was  such  a  grave — 
a  grave  robbed  by  the  power  of  a 
Victor  stronger  than  man's  great  enemy, 
Death." 

It  was,  therefore,  a  new  and  glorious 
message  that  the  angel  gave  to  the 
women  who  fearfully  and  lovingly  had 
approached  the  sepulcher  in  which 
Jesus  had  been  buried:  ".  .  .  Ye  seek 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  crucified: 
he  is  risen;  he  is  not  here:  behold  the 
place  where  they  laid  him."  (Mark 
16:6.) 

The  greatest  miracle 

If  a  miracle  is  a  supernatural  event 
whose  antecedent  forces  are  beyond 
man's  finite  wisdom,  then  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  most 
stupendous  miracle  of  all  time.  In  it 
stand  revealed  the  omnipotence  of  God 
and  the  immortality  of  man. 

The  resurrection  is  a  miracle,  how- 
ever, only  in  the  sense  that  it  is 
beyond  man's  comprehension  and 
understanding.  To  all  who  accept  it  as 
fact,  it  is  but  a  manifestation  of  a 
uniform  law  of  life.  Because  man  does 
not  understand  the  law,  he  calls  it  a 
miracle.  There  are  many  people  who 
reject  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus.  They  believe,  or  profess  to  be- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

lieve,  in  the  teachings  of  Christ,  but 
do  not  believe  in  the  virgin  birth,  nor 
in  his  literal  resurrection  from  the 
grave;  yet,  this  latter  fact  was  the  very 
foundation  of  the  early  Christian 
church.  Even  some  of  the  religious 
leaders  of  the  present  day  are  claiming 
that  Jesus  is  dead. 

Someday  man's  enlightenment  may 
bring  the  momentous  event  of  the 
resurrection  out  of  the  dusk  of  mystery 
into  the  broad  day  of  understanding. 

Just  recently  a  scientist,  in  speaking 
before  a  university  audience,  said, 
"Man  has  only  begun  the  search.  I 
cannot  stop  being  amazed  and  reverent 
at  the  wonders  of  the  Universe  around 
me.  It  is  hard  to  imagine  that  this 
just  happened  without  the  intervention 
of  a  power  beyond  man's  comprehen- 
sion. Anyone  who  denies  the  existence 
of  a  power  beyond  man's  specific 
knowledge,  lacks  the  necessary  humil- 
ity and  objectivity  which  is  vital  for 
good  scientific  work."  (Dr.  Elie  A. 
Shneour,  quoted  in  Church  News, 
March  12,  1966.) 

Establish  it  as  a  fact  that  Christ  did 
take  up  his  body  and  appeared  as  a 
glorified,  resurrected  being,  and  you 
answer  the  question  of  the  ages:  "If  a 
man  die,  shall  he  live  again?"  (Job 
14:14.) 

Disciples  witnesses  of  resurrection 

That  the  literal  resurrection  of 
Christ  from  the  grave  was  a  reality  to 
the  disciples  who  knew  him  intimately 
is  a  certainty.  In  their  minds  there 
was  absolutely  no  doubt.  They  were 
witnesses  of  the  fact;  they  knew  be- 
cause their  eyes  beheld,  their  ears 
heard,  their  hands  felt  the  corporeal 
presence  of  the  risen  Redeemer. 

Peter,  the  chief  apostle,  on  the  occa- 
sion when  the  eleven  had  met  to 
choose  one  to  take  the  place  of  Judas 
Iscariot,  said,  "Wherefore  of  these 
men  .  .  .  must  one  be  ordained  to  be  a 
witness  with  us  of  his  resurrection." 
(Acts  1:21,  22.) 

It  always  interests  me  to  study  about 
the  class  of  men  who  surrounded  the 
apostles  at  that  time,  from  whom  the 
apostles   chose  this  special  witness. 


PRESIDENT  D. 

They  were  men  who  had  been  "wit- 
nesses" of  the  resurrection.  Only  such 
a  one  was  considered  eligible  and 
worthy  to  be  chosen  as  one  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

On  another  occasion  Peter  declared 
before  their  enemies,  the  very  men  who 
had  put  Jesus  to  death  on  the  cross: 
"Ye  men  of  Israel,  hear  these  words. . . . 
This  Jesus  hath  God  raised  up,  whereof 
we  all  are  witnesses."  (Acts  2:22,  32.) 

Of  the  value  and  significance  of  the 
nearness  and  intimacy  of  the  authors 
of  the  epistles,  the  author  Beverly 
Nichols  writes: 

"[They]  were  within  hailing  dis- 
tance, historically,  of  Christ;  at  any 
rate,  when  their  ideas,  which  they 
afterwards  transmitted  to  paper,  were 
formed.  The  winds  had  hardly  had 
time  to  efface  the  sacred  print  of  his 
steps  in  the  sands  over  which  He 
walked.  The  rain  had  hardly  had 
time  to  wash  away,  with  its  callous 
tears,  the  blood  from  the  rotting  wood 
of  the  deserted  cross. 

"Yet  these  men  knew — I  can't  go  on 
using  the  word  'believe,'  which  is  far 
too  vapid  and  colourless — that  God 
had  descended  to  earth  in  the  shape 
of  a  certain  man,  that  this  man  had 
met  an  obscene  and  clownish  death, 
and  that  the  grotesque  mode  of  his 
dying  had  redeemed  mankind  from 
sin.  They  knew,  moreover,  that  He 
had  risen  from  the  dead  on  the  third 
day  and  ascended  into  heaven." 
(Beverly  Nichols,  The  Fool  Hath 
Said  [New  York:  Doubleday,  1936], 
pp.  56-57.) 

Nearness  to  the  event  gives  increased 
value  to  the  evidence  given  by  the 
apostles.  A  deeper  value  of  their 
testimony  lies  in  the  fact  that  with 
Jesus'  death  the  apostles  were  stricken 
with  discouragement  and  gloom.  For 
two  and  one-half  years  they  had  been 
upheld  and  inspired  by  Christ's  pres- 
ence. But  now  he  was  gone.  They 
were  left  alone,  and  they  seemed  con- 
fused and  helpless.  Not  with  timidity, 
not  with  feelings  of  doubt,  gloom,  and 
discouragement  is  a  skeptical  world 
made  to  believe.  Such  wavering, 
despairing  minds  as  the  apostles  pos- 
sessed on  the  day  of  the  crucifixion 


riD  O.  McKAY  57 

could  never  have  stirred  people  to 
accept  an  unpopular  belief  and  to  die 
martyrs  to  the  cause. 

Sustained  by  Revelation 

What,  then,  was  it  that  suddenly 
changed  these  disciples  to  confident, 
fearless,  heroic  preachers  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ?  It  was  the  revelation 
that  Christ  had  risen  from  the  grave. 
"His  promises  had  been  kept,  His  Mes- 
sianic mission  fulfilled." 

I  urge  all  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  to  consider  carefully  the  testi- 
monies of  these  eyewitnesses  as  re- 
corded in  the  New  Testament,  whose 
honesty  is  not  questioned  even  by 
skeptical  criticism. 

That  the  spirit  of  man  passes  tri- 
umphantly through  the  portals  of 
death  into  everlasting  life  is  one  of 
the  glorious  messages  given  by  Christ, 
our  Redeemer.  To  him  this  earthly 
career  is  but  a  day  and  its  closing  but 
the  setting  of  life's  sun.  Death,  but  a 
sleep,  is  followed  by  a  glorious  awaken- 
ing in  the  morning  of  an  eternal 
realm.  When  Mary  and  Martha  saw 
their  brother  only  as  a  corpse  in  the 
dark  and  silent  tomb,  Christ  saw  him 
still  a  living  being.  This  fact  he  ex- 
pressed in  the  two  words:  ".  .  .  Lazarus 
sleepeth.  .  .  ."  (John  11:11.) 

If  everyone  participating  in  Easter 
services  knew  that  the  crucified  Christ 
actually  rose  on  the  third  day — that 
after  having  greeted  others  and  min- 
gled with  others  in  the  spirit  world, 
his  spirit  did  again  reanimate  his 
pierced  body,  and  after  sojourning 
among  men  for  the  space  of  forty 
days,  he  ascended  a  glorified  soul  to 
his  Father — what  benign  peace  would 
come  to  souls  now  troubled  with  doubt 
and  uncertainty! 

Resurrection,  the  consummation 
of  His  earthly  mission 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  stands  with  Peter,  with 
Paul,  with  James,  and  with  all  the 
other  early  apostles  who  accepted  the 
resurrection  not  only  as  being  literally 
true,  but  as  the  consummation  of 
Christ's  divine  mission  on  earth. 


58 

Saturday,  April  9 

The  risen  Lord  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Eighteen  hundred  years  after  Jesus 
died  upon  the  cross,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  declared  that  the  risen  Lord  ap- 
peared to  him,  saying:  "...  I  saw  two 
Personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory 
defy  all  description,  standing  above  me 
in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto 
me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My 
Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph 
Smith  2:17.) 

Later,  speaking  of  the  reality  of  this 
vision,  he  testifies  as  follows:  "...  I 
had  seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I 
knew  that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could 
not  deny  it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at 
least  I  knew  that  by  so  doing  I  would 
offend  God,  and  come  under  condem- 
nation." (Joseph  Smith  2:25.) 

Other  modern  witnesses 

If  Joseph  Smith's  testimony  stood 
alone,  it  would  be,  as  Christ  said  of 
his  testimony  when  he  spoke  of  him- 
self, of  no  avail;  but  Jesus  had  God's 
testimony  and  that  of  the  apostles.  And 
Joseph  Smith  had  other  witnesses 
whose  testimonies  cannot  be  ques- 
tioned. Three  witnesses  corroborated 
Joseph  Smith's  testimony,  the  truth  of 
which  was  made  known  by  the  appear- 
ance to  them  of  the  Angel  Moroni. 

Confirming  the  irrefutable  testimony 
of  Christ's  early  apostles,  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
proclaims  the  glorious  vision  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

The  Testimony:  "That  he  lives  1" 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testi- 
monies which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which 
we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives  1 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  cre- 
ated, and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are 
begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God."  (D&C  76:22-24.) 

In  the  light  of  such  unimpeachable 
testimonies  as  given  by  the  ancient 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

apostles — testimonies  dating  from  a 
few  years  subsequent  to  the  event  itself 
— in  the  light  of  that  most  marvelous 
revelation  in  this  age  of  the  living 
Christ,  it  seems  difficult  indeed  to 
understand  how  men  can  still  reject 
him  and  can  doubt  the  immortality  of 
man. 

World  need  today:  Unwavering 
faith  in  Christ 

An  unwavering  faith  in  Christ  is 
the  most  important  need  of  the  world 
today.  It  is  more  than  a  mere  feeling. 
It  is  power  that  moves  into  action, 
and  should  be  in  human  life  the  most 
basic  of  all  motivating  forces. 

It  was  in  this  sense  that  an  eminent 
doctor  of  medicine,  who  had  but 
recently  lost  his  mother  in  death, 
admonished  his  students  to  keep  their 
faith.  Said  he,  "Those  of  you  who  have 
discarded  faith  will  live  to  regret  it. 
There  are  times  such  as  this  when  you 
lose  a  loved  one  by  death  that  science 
is  entirely  inadequate.  I  commend  you 
to  think  seriously  about  these  matters. 
They  give  comfort  and  solace  which 
can  be  obtained  in  no  other  way.  Many 
have  discarded  religion  because  it  ap- 
pears unscientific.  I  believe  you  will 
find  in  the  last  analysis  that  Faith  is 
scientific." 

Death  as  natural  as  birth 

There  is  no  cause  to  fear  death;  it 
is  but  an  incident  in  life.  It  is  as 
natural  as  birth.  Why  should  we  fear 
it?  Some  fear  it  because  they  think 
it  is  the  end  of  life,  and  life  often  is 
the  dearest  thing  we  have.  Eternal  life 
is  man's  greatest  blessing. 

If  only  men  would  "do  his  will," 
instead  of  looking  hopelessly  at  the 
dark  and  gloomy  tomb,  they  would 
turn  their  eyes  heavenward  and  know 
that  Christ  is  risen! 

No  man  can  accept  the  resurrection 
and  be  consistent  in  his  belief  without 
accepting  also  the  existence  of  a  per- 
sonal God.  Through  the  resurrection 
Christ  conquered  death  and  became 
an  immortal  soul.  "My  Lord  and  my 
God"  (John  20:28)  was  not  merely  an 
idle  exclamation  of  Thomas  when  he 
beheld  his  risen  Lord.  Once  we  accept 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


59 


Christ  as  divine,  it  is  easy  to  visualize 
his  Father  as  being  just  as  personal  as 
he;  for,  said  Jesus,  ".  .  .  he  that  hath 
seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father.  .  .  ." 
(John  14:9.) 

The  Son  of  the  living  God 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  declares  to  all  the  world 
that  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world!  No  true  fol- 
lower is  satisfied  to  accept  him  merely 
as  a  great  reformer,  the  ideal  teacher, 
or  even  as  the  one  perfect  man.  The 
Man  of  Galilee  is — not  figuratively,  but 
literally — the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

The  immortality  of  man 

Belief  in  the  resurrection  connotes 
also  the  immortality  of  man.  Jesus 
passed  through  all  the  experiences  of 
mortality  just  as  you  and  I.  He  knew 
happiness,  he  experienced  pain.  He 
rejoiced  as  well  as  sorrowed  with 
others.  He  knew  friendship.  He  ex- 
perienced, also,  the  sadness  that  comes 
through  traitors  and  false  accusers.  He 
died  a  mortal  death  even  as  you  will. 
Since  Christ  lived  after  death,  so  shall 
you,  and  so  shall  I,  and  so  shall  your 
soldier  boy  who  gives  his  life  on  the 
battlefield. 

Jesus  was  the  one  perfect  man  who 
ever  lived.  In  rising  from  the  dead,  he 
conquered  death  and  is  now  Lord  of 
the  earth.  How  utterly  weak,  how 
extremely  foolish  is  he  who  would 
willfully  reject  Christ's  way  of  life, 
especially  in  the  light  of  the  fact  that 
such  rejection  leads  only  to  unhappi- 
ness,  misery,  and  even  to  death! 

"Born  again" 

No  man  can  sincerely  resolve  to  ap- 
ply in  his  daily  life  the  teachings  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  without  sensing  a 
change  in  his  whole  being.  The 
phrase  "born  again"  has  a  deeper  sig- 
nificance than  what  many  people 
attach  to  it.  This  changed  feeling 
may  be  indescribable,  but  it  is  real. 
Happy  is  the  person  who  has  truly 
sensed  the  uplifting,  transforming 
power  that  comes  from  this  nearness 
to  the  Savior,  this  kinship  to  the  living 
Christ.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know 
that  Christ  is  my  Redeemer. 


He  is  the  first  step  to 
everlasting  peace 

When  Christians  throughout  the 
world  have  this  faith  coursing  in  their 
veins,  when  they  feel  a  loyalty  in  their 
hearts  to  the  Resurrected  Christ  and  to 
the  principles  connoted  thereby,  man- 
kind will  have  taken  the  first  great 
step  toward  the  perpetual  peace  for 
which  we  daily  are  praying.  Reject 
him  and  the  world  will  be  filled  with 
hatred  and  drenched  in  blood  by  re- 
curring wars. 

Members  of  the  Church  of  Christ  are 
under  obligation  to  make  the  sinless 
Son  of  Man  their  ideal.  He  is  the  one 
perfect  being  who  ever  walked  the 
earth;  the  sublimest  example  of  nobil- 
ity; godlike  in  nature;  perfect  in  his 
love;  our  Redeemer;  our  Savior;  the 
immaculate  Son  of  our  Eternal  Father; 
the  Light,  the  Life,  the  Way. 

The  message  of  the  resurrection 

As  Christ  lives  after  death,  so  shall 
all  men,  each  taking  that  place  in  the 
next  world  for  which  he  is  best  fitted. 

The  message  of  the  resurrection, 
therefore,  is  the  most  comforting,  the 
most  glorious  ever  given  to  man,  for 
when  death  takes  a  loved  one  from  us, 
our  sorrowing  hearts  are  assuaged  by 
the  hope  and  divine  assurance  ex- 
pressed in  the  words:  "He  is  not  here; 
he  is  risen!" 

With  all  my  soul  I  know  that  death 
is  conquered  by  Jesus  Christ,  and  be- 
cause our  Redeemer  lives,  so  shall  we. 
I  bear  you  witness  that  he  does  live. 
I  know  it,  and  I  hope  you  know  that 
divine  truth. 

May  all  mankind  some  day  have 
that  faith,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  David  O.  McKay,  presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to 
us. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "Christ  the  Lord 
is  Risen  Today." 

Singing,  Choir  and  congregation, 
"Christ,  the  Lord  is  Risen  Today." 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  9  Second  Day 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown:  assembled  in  the  historic  tabernacle  on 

Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
For  the  benefit  of  the  television  and       Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the 
radio  audience  who  have  just  tuned  in    Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  ad- 
we  again  announce  that  the  Church  is     dress  us. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Spring  has  returned  to  the  com- 
munity of  Franklin,  Idaho.  One  can 
hear  the  ever-welcome  chirp  of  the 
robin  and  see  the  beauty  of  the  first 
daffodil.  Seemingly  overnight,  the 
drab  brown  grass  of  winter  turns  to  a 
verdant  green.  Soon  plows  will  turn 
the  earth,  seeds  will  be  planted,  and 
a  new  cycle  of  life  will  commence. 
Tucked  away  from  the  bustle  of  activ- 
ity and  snuggled  against  the  friendly 
hills  is  the  town  cemetery. 

Just  three  weeks  ago  a  new  grave 
was  opened — not  a  large  one — and  a 
tiny  casket  was  lowered  into  mother 
earth.  Three  lines  appear  on  the  attrac- 
tive headstone: 

MICHAEL  PAUL  SHUMWAY 
Born:  October  24,  1965 
Died:  March  14,  1966 

May  I  introduce  you  to  the  Shumway 
family.  They  are  my  neighbors  here 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Mark  and 
Wilma  Shumway  and  each  of  the 
children  always  greet  you  with  a 
friendly  smile  or  a  wave  of  the  hand. 
They  brighten  a  neighborhood.  They 
are  good  people. 

Can  you  imagine  the  happiness  in 
the  family  home  on  that  24th  day  of 
October  when  little  Michael  was  born. 
Father  was  proud,  brothers  and  sisters 
were  excited,  Mother  was  humble,  as 
they  welcomed  this  sweet  new  blossom 
of  humanity,  fresh  fallen  from  God's 
own  home,  to  flower  on  earth.  Happy 
months  followed. 

Then  came  that  fateful  night  in 
March  when  little  Michael  was  called 
to  his  heavenly  home  and  the  breath 
of  life  was  gone.  As  I  visited  with 
Mark  and  Wilma,  so  bowed  down 
with  grief  from  the  loss  of  their 
precious  son,  I  noticed  one  of  Michael's 


tiny  toys  as  it  rested  near  the  crib.  I 
remembered  the  words  of  Eugene 
Field's  masterpiece,  "Little  Boy  Blue": 

"The  little  toy  dog  is  covered  with  dust, 
But  sturdy  and  stanch  he  stands; 
And  the  little  toy  soldier  is  red  with 
rust, 

And  his  musket  molds  in  his  hands. 
Time  was  when  the  little  toy  dog  was 
new, 

And  the  soldier  was  passing  fair, 
And  that  was  the  time  when  our  Little 

Boy  Blue 
Kissed  them  and  put  them  there. 

"  'Now,  don't  you  go  till  I  come,'  he 
said, 

'And  don't  you  make  any  noise!' 
So  toddling  off  to  his  trundle-bed, 
He  dreamed  of  the  pretty  toys. 
And  as  he  was  dreaming,  an  angel  song 
Awakened  our  Little  Boy  Blue, — 
Oh,  the  years  are  many,  the  years  are 
long, 

But  the  little  toy  friends  are  true. 

"Ay,  faithful  to  Little  Boy  Blue  they 
stand, 

Each  in  the  same  old  place, 
Awaiting  the  touch  of  a  little  hand, 
The  smile  of  a  little  face. 
And  they  wonder,  as  waiting  the  long 

years  through, 
In  the  dust  of  that  little  chair, 
What  has  become  of  our  Little  Boy 

Blue 

Since  he  kissed  them  and  put  them 
there." 

There  are  many  toy  dogs  and  many 
toy  dolls  that  belonged  to  many  boys 
and  girls  who  lived  and  then  were 
taken  from  us.  And  while  the  toys 
may  wonder  while  they  wait,  anxious 
parents  need  not  wonder.  The  revealed 
word  of  a  loving  Heavenly  Father  pro- 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


61 


vides  answers  to  questions  of  the  heart. 

Mark  and  Wilma,  could  you  gather 
your  little  ones  around  as  we  discuss 
some  of  these  answers.  There  are 
many  hundreds  of  thousands  of  others, 
perhaps  millions,  listening  in,  but  they 
may  benefit  from  our  conversation;  for 
who  hasn't  lost  a  mother,  a  father,  a 
sister,  a  brother,  a  son,  or  a  daughter? 

"If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?" 

Every  thoughtful  person  has  asked 
himself  that  question  best  phrased  by 
Job  of  old:  "If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live 
again?"  (Job  14:14.)  Try  as  we  may 
to  put  the  question  out  of  our  thoughts, 
it  always  returns.  Death  comes  to  all 
mankind.  It  comes  to  the  aged  as  they 
walk  on  faltering  feet.  Its  summons  is 
heard  by  those  who  have  scarcely 
reached  midway  in  life's  journey,  and 
often  it  hushes  the  laughter  of  little 
children. 

In  Paul's  message  to  the  Hebrews,  he 
declared:  ". . .  it  is  appointed  unto  men 

once  to  die  "  (Heb.  9:27.)  While 

death  is  inevitable,  it  can  best  be 
understood  when  we  learn  of  life, 
even  eternal  life. 

Life  on  earth  does  not  mark  the 
beginning  of  our  existence.  The  poet 
William  Wordsworth  wrote: 

"Our  birth  is  but  a  sleep  and  a  for- 
getting: 

The  soul  that  rises  with  us,  our  life's 
Star, 

Hath  had  elsewhere  its  setting, 

And  cometh  from  afar: 

Not  in  entire  forgetfulness, 

And  not  in  utter  nakedness, 

But  trailing  clouds  of  glory  do  we  come 

From  God,  who  is  our  home: 

Heaven  lies  about  us  in  our  infancy!" 
("Ode  on  Intimations  of  Immortality 
from  Recollections  of  Early  Child- 
hood.") 

And  who  can  fail  to  be  sobered  by 
the  declaration  of  the  prophet  Jere- 
miah: "Then  the  word  of  the  Lord 
came  unto  me,  saying, 

"Before  I  formed  thee  in  the  belly  I 
knew  thee;  and  before  thou  earnest 
forth  out  of  the  womb  I  sanctified  thee, 
and  I  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto  the 
nations."  (Jer.  1:4-5.) 


In  the  wisdom  of  God,  an  earth  was 
created  upon  which  man  might  dwell. 
Genesis  records  that  the  earth  was 
without  form  and  void,  and  darkness 
was  upon  the  face  of  the  deep.  Then 
God  said,  "Let  there  be  light:  and 
there  was  light." 

"Let  there  be  a  firmament . . . ,"  and 
there  was  a  firmament. 

"Let  the  earth  bring  forth  grass,  .  .  ." 
and  the  earth  brought  forth  grass. 
(Gen.  1:3,  6,  11.)  He  made  the  fowls 
of  the  air,  the  creatures  of  the  water, 
the  beasts  of  the  earth. 

And  then  "God  created  man  in  his 
own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  cre- 
ated he  him;  male  and  female  created 
he  them."  (Gen.  1:27.)  To  man  was 
given  dominion  over  every  living  thing. 
Earth  became  a  proving  ground,  a 
testing  station,  a  provider  of  needed 
experience. 

We  laugh,  we  cry,  we  work,  we  play, 
we  love,  we  live.  And  then  we  die. 
And  dead  we  would  remain  but  for 
one  man  and  his  mission,  even  Jesus 
of  Nazareth.  Born  in  a  stable,  cradled 
in  a  manger,  his  birth  fulfilled  the  in- 
spired pronouncements  of  many  proph- 
ets. He  was  taught  from  on  high.  He 
provided  the  life,  the  light,  and  the 
way.  Multitudes  followed  him.  Chil- 
dren adored  him.  The  haughty 
rejected  him.  He  spoke  in  parables. 
He  taught  by  example.  He  lived  a 
perfect  life.  Through  his  ministry 
blind  men  saw,  deaf  men  heard,  and 
lame  men  walked.  Even  the  dead  re- 
turned to  life. 

Though  the  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords  had  come,  he  was  accorded 
the  greeting  given  to  an  enemy  or  a 
traitor.  There  followed  a  mockery  that 
some  called  a  trial.  Cries  of  "Crucify 
him,  crucify  him,"  filled  the  air. 
(John  19:6.)  Then  commenced  the 
climb  to  Calvary's  Hill. 

He  was  ridiculed,  reviled,  mocked, 
jeered,  and  nailed  to  a  cross  amidst 
shouts  of  "Let  Christ  the  King  of 
Israel  descend  now  from  the  cross,  that 
we  may  see  and  believe."  (Mark 
15:32.)  "He  saved  others;  himself  he 
cannot  save."  (Matt.  27:42.)  "If  thou 
be  Christ,  save  thyself.  .  .  ."  (Luke 
23:39)  His  response:  "Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they 


62 

Saturday,  April  9 

do."  (Luke  23:34.)  ".  .  .  into  thy  hands 
I  commend  my  spirit:  and  having  said 
thus:  he  gave  up  the  ghost."  (Luke 
23:46.)  His  body  was  placed  by  loving 
hands  in  a  sepulcher  hewn  of  stone. 

On  the  first  day  of  the  week,  very 
early  in  the  morning,  Mary  Magda- 
lene and  the  other  Mary  came  unto 
the  sepulcher.  To  their  astonishment, 
the  body  of  their  Lord  was  gone.  Luke 
records  that  two  men  in  shining 
garments  stood  by  them  and  said: 
"Why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the 
dead? 

"He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen.  .  .  ." 
(Luke  24:1,  5-6.)  Job's  question,  "If 
a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?"  had 
just  been  answered. 

The  sacred  scripture  records  the 
events  following  his  ascension.  How- 
ever, today,  as  always,  the  skeptic's 
voice  challenges  the  word  of  God,  and 
each  man  must  choose  to  whom  he 
shall  listen.  Clarence  Darrow,  the 
famous  lawyer  and  agnostic,  declared, 
"No  life  is  of  much  value,  and  every 
death  is  but  a  little  loss."  Schopen- 
hauer, the  German  philosopher  and 
pessimist,  wrote:  "To  desire  immortal- 
ity is  to  desire  the  eternal  perpetuation 
of  a  great  mistake."  And  to  their  words 
are  added  those  of  new  generations  as 
foolish  men  crucify  the  Christ  anew. 
For  they  modify  his  miracles,  doubt 
his  divinity,  and  reject  his  resurrection. 

Robert  Blatchford,  in  his  book  God 
and  My  Neighbor  attacked  with  vigor 
the  accepted  Christian  beliefs,  such  as 
God,  Christ,  prayer,  and  immortality. 
He  boldly  asserted:  "I  claim  to  have 
proved  everything  I  set  out  to  prove  so 
fully  and  decisively  that  no  Christian, 
however  great  or  able  he  may  be,  can 
answer  my  arguments  or  shake  my 
case."  He  surrounded  himself  with  a 
wall  of  skepticism.  Then  a  surprising 
thing  happened.  His  wall  suddenly 
crumbled  to  dust.  He  was  left  exposed 
and  undefended.  Slowly  he  began  to 
feel  his  way  back  to  the  faith  he  had 
scorned  and  ridiculed.  What  had 
caused  this  profound  change  in  his 
outlook?  His  wife  died.  With  broken 
heart,  he  went  into  the  room  where 
lay  all  that  was  mortal  of  her.  He 
looked  at  the  face  he  loved  so  well. 
Coming  out  he  said  to  a  friend:  "It  is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

she  and  yet  it  is  not  she.  Everything 
is  changed.  Something  that  was  there 
before  is  taken  away.  She  is  not  the 
same.  What  can  be  gone  if  it  be  not 
the  soul?" 

Later  he  wrote:  "Death  is  not  what 
some  people  imagine.  It  is  only  like 
going  into  another  room.  In  that 
other  room  we  shall  find  .  .  .  the  dear 
women  and  men  and  the  sweet  chil- 
dren we  have  loved  and  lost."  (God 
and  My  Neighbor  [Chicago:  Charles 
H.  Kerr  and  Company].) 

Testimony  against  the  skeptics 

Against  the  philosophy  rampant  in 
today's  world — a  doubting  of  the  au- 
thenticity of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
an  abandonment  of  Christ's  teachings, 
a  denial  of  God,  and  a  rejection  of  his 
laws — we  seek  a  point  of  reference,  an 
unimpeachable  source,  even  a  testi- 
mony of  eye  witnesses.  Stephen, 
doomed  to  the  cruel  death  of  a  martyr, 
looked  up  to  heaven  and  cried:  "...  I 
see  the  heavens  opened,  and  the  Son 
of  man  standing  on  the  right  hand  of 
God."  (Acts  7:56.)  Saul,  on  the  road 
to  Damascus,  had  a  vision  of  the  risen, 
exalted  Christ.  Peter  and  John  also 
testified  of  the  risen  Christ. 

Who  can  help  but  be  penetrated  by 
the  stirring  testimony  of  Paul  at 
Corinth?  He  declared  "that  Christ  died 
for  our  sins  according  to  the  scriptures; 

"And  that  he  was  buried,  and  that 
he  rose  again  the  third  day  according 
to  the  scriptures: 

"And  .  .  .  was  seen  of  Cephas,  then 
of  the  twelve; 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above 
five  hundred  brethren  at  once;  of  whom 
the  greater  part  remain  unto  this 
present.  .  .  . 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James; 
then  of  all  the  apostles. 

And  ".  .  .  he  was  seen  of  me.  .  .  ." 
(I  Cor.  15:3-8.) 

To  the  agnostic,  the  skeptic,  the  re- 
viler,  I  ask,  "Agnostic,  can  you  an- 
swer?" "Skeptic,  can  you  save?" 
"Reviler,  can  you  redeem?" 

God  the  Eternal  Father  spoke  to  the 
multitude  on  this  continent  and  said: 
"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name — hear  ye  him. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


63 


".  .  .  as  they  understood  they  cast 
their  eyes  up  again  towards  heaven; 
and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  descend- 
ing out  of  heaven,  .  .  . 

". .  .  he  stretched  forth  his  hand  and 
spake  unto  the  people,  saying: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
the  prophets  testified  shall  come  into 
the  world. 

"...  I  am  the  light  and  the  life  of 
the  world;  and  I  have  drunk  out  of 
that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath 
given  me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father 
in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the 
world  "  (3  Ne.  11:7-11.) 

"Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that 
ye  may  thrust  your  hands  into  my 
side,  and  also  that  ye  may  feel  the 
prints  of  the  nails  in  my  hands  and  in 
my  feet,  that  ye  may  know  that  I  am 
the  God  of  Israel,  and  the  God  of  the 
whole  earth,  and  have  been  slain  for 
the  sins  of  the  world. 

"And  when  they  had  all  gone  forth 
and  had  witnessed  for  themselves,  they 
did  cry  out  with  one  accord,  saying: 

"Hosanna!  Blessed  be  the  name  of 
the  Most  High  God!  And  they  did  fall 
down  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  did  wor- 
ship him."  (3  Ne.  11:14,  16-17.) 

God  so  loved  the  world  .  .  ." 

This  loving  God  who  introduced  his 
crucified  and  resurrected  Son  was  not 
a  God  lacking  in  body,  parts,  or  pas- 
sions— the  God  of  a  man-made  phi- 
losophy. Rather,  God  our  Father  has 
ears  with  which  to  hear  our  prayers. 
He  has  eyes  with  which  to  see  our 
actions.  He  has  a  mouth  with  which 
to  speak  to  us.  He  has  a  heart  with 
which  to  feel  compassion  and  love.  He 
is  real.  He  is  living.  We  are  his  chil- 
dren made  in  his  image.  We  look 
like  him  and  he  looks  like  us. 

This  is  the  God  who  so  loved  the 
world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten 
Son  that  we  might  have  everlasting 
life. 

To  you,  Wilma  and  Mark  Shumway, 
and  to  all  who  have  loved  and  lost 
a  dear  one,  he  provides  the  courage  to 
say,  ".  .  .  the  Lord  gave,  and  the 


Lord  hath  taken  away;  blessed  be  the 
name  of  the  Lord."  (Job  1:21.)  As 
you  and  your  children  journey  to  the 
family  home  in  Franklin,  Idaho,  where 
tenderly  and  lovingly  you  will  place 
the  flowers  of  springtime  on  that  tiny 
grave,  your  eyes  may  be  moist  with 
tears,  but  your  hearts  will  burn  with 
the  knowledge  that  the  bands  of  death 
have  been  broken  and  that  members 
of  your  family,  though  now  separated 
by  death,  will  one  day  be  reunited  to 
share  the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 

With  all  my  heart  and  the  fervency 
of  my  soul,  I  lift  up  my  voice  in  testi- 
mony today  as  a  special  witness  and 
declare  that  God  does  live.  Jesus  is 
his  Son,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father  in  the  flesh.  He  is  our  Re- 
deemer; he  is  our  Mediator  with  the 
Father.  He  it  was  who  died  on  the 
cross  to  atone  for  our  sins.  He  became 
the  first  fruit  of  the  resurrection.  Oh, 
sweet  the  joy  this  sentence  gives,  "I 
know  that  my  Redeemer  lives!"  and 
may  the  whole  world  know  it  and  live 
by  that  knowledge,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord  and 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Ye  Now  Are  Sorrowful,"  with  JoAnne 
Ottley  as  soloist,  and  following  an 
organ  interlude,  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker. 


The  Choir  sang,  "Ye  Now  Are  Sor- 
rowful," JoAnne  Ottley,  soloist. 

Organ  interlude,  Alexander  Schrei- 
ner,  organist. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  give  the  concluding 
address. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  9  Second  Day 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  prayer  is  that  what  I  say  in 
these  next  few  moments  may  not  be 
out  of  harmony  with  what  has  seemed 
to  be  the  theme  of  this  great  confer- 
ence, which  has,  among  other  things, 
impressed  upon  us  the  vital  importance 
of  keeping  the  commandments  of  God 
as  an  effective  hedge  against  the  evils 
of  our  day.  Many  questions  are  asked 
today  as  the  disturbed  conditions  in 
the  world  become  more  confusing  and 
appalling  to  our  people  and  to  others 
who  are  shocked  by  the  continuance  of 
undeclared  wars  and  by  the  spectacle 
of  government  affairs  and  some  private 
and  public  businesses  being  dominated, 
in  many  instances,  by  official  mandate 
rather  than  by  due  legislative  processes. 
We  see  rebellion  against  the  law, 
which  approaches  anarchy  when  lead- 
ers openly  incite  riots  against  law  and 
order;  we  are  witnessing  the  constant 
parading  of  ugly  and  soul-destroying, 
lewd,  and  provocative  literature, 
theatricals,  and  radio  and  television 
shows.  We  hear  vicious  attacks  on 
public  officials  without  the  oppor- 
tunity being  given  to  them  to  make  a 
defense  or  a  rebuttal  to  the  evil  dia- 
tribes and  character  assassinations  that 
tend  to  discourage  worthy  men  from 
accepting  appointments  to  public  of- 
fices. These  are  but  a  few  of  the  ills 
that  afflict  us  in  our  so-called  modern 
age. 

In  the  midst  of  all  this,  we  hear  our 
faithful  people  asking  these  questions 
over  and  over  again:  Are  we  living  in 
the  last  days?  Is  there  a  sure  way  we 
can  know  the  false  from  the  true? 
Does  the  Church  take  any  position  in 
these  matters?  Is  the  devil  on  the  loose? 
Has  the  Church  a  defense  against  these 
terrifying  circumstances? 

Sure  guides  to  truth 

To  all  of  these  questions,  the  an- 
swers are  unwavering:  Yes,  we  are 
living  in  the  last  days.  There  are  sure 
guides  to  truth  if  church  members  will 
use  them.  The  Church  is  a  continuing 
revolution  against  any  and  all  norms 


of  society  that  fall  below  the  gospel 
standards.  Within  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  may  be  found  the  solution  to 
every  problem  confronting  us  that  will 
enable  us  to  find  happiness  here  and 
eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come.  Yes, 
the  devil  is  certainly  on  the  loose. 
The  Church  indeed  has  within  itself 
the  most  effective  possible  defense 
against  these  ungodly  and  terrifying 
conditions. 

The  conflict  with  evil 

My  text  for  this  brief  address  sets 
out  in  clearness  the  eternal  contest 
with  the  evil  forces  among  us.  The 
Apostle  Paul  admonished  the  Saints  of 
Ephesus: 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil. 

"For  we  wrestle  not  against  flesh  and 
blood,  but  against  principalities, 
against  powers,  against  the  rulers  of 
the  darkness  of  this  world,  against 
spiritual  wickedness  in  high  places." 
(Eph.  6:11-12.) 

Love  and  obedience 

This  profound  admonition  was  pre- 
ceded by  pertinent  instructions  that 
impress  the  very  present  needs  of  to- 
day. There  must  be  the  love  of  a  hus- 
band for  his  wife  and  the  love  of  a 
wife  for  her  husband,  and  children 
must  be  obedient  to  parents.  The 
Apostle  Paul  drew  a  parallel  between 
the  reverence  for  and  love  of  parents 
and  children  in  the  home  to  the  love 
of  the  Master  for  his  Church,  and  then 
concluded  with  these  words:  "Finally, 
my  brethren,  be  strong  in  the  Lord, 
and  in  the  power  of  his  might."  (Eph. 
6:10.) 

All  with  righteous  desires  are  op- 
posed to  sin.  Some  years  ago  I  par- 
ticipated in  a  panel  discussion  at  the 
University  of  Utah  with  public  offi- 
cials, businessmen,  and  a  district  judge, 
as  well  as  professional  men  of  the 
university.  The  district  judge  made  a 
profound  statement  when  he  declared 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


65 


that  the  great  need  in  the  fight  against 
lawlessness,  against  immorality,  against 
atheism,  socialism.  Communism,  or 
other  related  ills  is  faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Our  city  attorney  had 
accompanied  me,  I  being  a  city  offi- 
cial at  the  time.  To  him  the  comment 
of  the  judge  about  faith  as  a  weapon 
against  sin  was  sheer  stupidity  and  a 
pompous  display  of  religious  bigotry. 
As  I  have  thought  about  the  statement 
of  the  judge,  I  have  recalled  a  wise 
observation  by  one  of  my  esteemed 
colleagues:  "Beautiful  roses,"  he  said, 
"do  not  grow  unless  the  roots  of  the 
parent  bush  are  planted  in  rich,  fertile 
soil — watered  and  cultivated  and  care- 
fully nurtured  by  the  hand  of  a  master 
gardener.  Likewise,  beautiful  flowers 
of  virtue,  honesty,  integrity,  or  sobriety 
do  not  blossom  in  a  human  soul  unless 
his  feet  are  firmly  planted  on  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ."  (Charles  A. 
Callis,  formerly  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.) 

Knowledge  of  God's  word 

Despite  the  sarcasm  of  my  nonmem- 
ber  attorney  friend,  the  judge  in  the 
panel  discussion  was  right.  My  knowl- 
edge of  the  Lord's  word  concerning  sin 
and  my  experience  in  dealing  with 
human  problems  have  taught  me  that 
the  judge  was  close  to  the  mark.  We 
must  know  the  truth,  for  the  truth  only 
will  make  us  free  from  the  pitfalls  of 
evil.  Knowledge  of  and  love  for  the 
Son  of  God  as  a  perfected  being  will 
bring  heaven  close  when  temptations 
are  near. 

The  Apostle  Paul  closed  his  sermon 
to  the  Ephesians  with  these  meaning- 
ful words:  "Stand  therefore,  having 
your  loins  girt  about  with  truth,  and 
having  on  the  breastplate  of  righteous- 
ness: 

"And  your  feet  shod  with  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  gospel  of  peace; 

"Above  all,  taking  the  shield  of 
faith,  wherewith  ye  shall  be  able  to 
quench  all  the  fiery  darts  of  the 
wicked. 

"And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation, 
and  the  sword  of  the  Spirit,  which  is 
the  word  of  God: 


"Praying  always  with  all  prayer  and 
supplication  in  the  Spirit,  and  watch- 
ing thereunto  with  all  perseverance 
and  supplication  for  all  saints.  .  .  ." 
(Eph.  6:14-18.) 

To  the  Corinthians,  the  Apostle  Paul 
set  forth  in  plainness  that  his  teachings 
would  not  be  from  his  learning  in 
secular  fields  in  which  he  was  a  recog- 
nized scholar.  His  pledge  to  them  as  a 
preacher  of  righteousness  and  truth 
was  significant: 

"And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to 
you,  came  not  with  excellency  of 
speech  or  of  wisdom,  declaring  unto 
you  the  testimony  of  God. 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any 
thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified.  .  .  . 

Faith  in  the  wisdom  of  God 

"That  your  faith  should  not  stand 
in  the  wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the 
power  of  God."  (1  Cor.  2:1-3,  5.)  I 
would  that  all  who  are  called  to  high 
places  in  the  Church  would  determine, 
as  did  the  Apostle  to  the  Gentiles,  to 
know  and  to  preach  nothing  save  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified. 

We  are  told  plainly  in  the  revela- 
tions that  the  fruits  of  the  true  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  are  unity  and  harmony. 
The  following  from  a  revelation  while 
the  Church  was  young  and  the  leaders 
inexperienced  plainly  declares  that  the 
gospel  in  its  fullness  was  given  to 
overcome  contention.  Listen  to  his 
words: 

"Yea,  and  I  will  also  bring  to  light 
my  gospel  .  .  .  and  shall  bring  to  light 
the  true  points  of  my  doctrine,  yea, 
and  the  only  doctrine  which  is  in  me. 

"And  this  I  do  that  I  may  establish 
my  gospel,  that  there  may  not  be  so 
much  contention;  yea,  Satan  doth  stir 
up  the  hearts  of  the  people  to  conten- 
tion concerning  the  points  of  my 
doctrine;  and  in  these  things  they  do 
err,  for  they  do  wrest  the  scriptures 
and  do  not  understand  them."  (D&C 
10:62-63.) 

Then  the  Lord  has  declared  some- 
thing more,  which  all  of  us  as  leaders 
and  teachers  should  heed: 

"Behold,  this  is  my  doctrine — who- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


66 

Saturday,  April  9 

soever  repenteth  and  cometh  unto  me, 
the  same  is  my  church. 

"Whosoever  declareth  more  or  less 
than  this,  the  same  is  not  of  me,  but 
is  against  me;  therefore  he  is  not  of 
my  church. 

"And  now,  behold,  whosoever  is  of 
my  church,  and  endureth  of  my  church 
to  the  end,  him  will  I  establish  upon 
my  rock,  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall 
not  prevail  against  them. 

"And  now,  remember  the  words  of 
him  who  is  the  life  and  light  of  the 
world,  your  Redeemer,  your  Lord  and 
your  God."  (D&C  10:67-70.) 

"I  say  unto  you,  be  one;  and  if  ye 
are  not  one,  ye  are  not  mine."  (D&C 
38:27.) 

Harmony  evidence  of  oneness 

The  absolute  test  of  the  divinity  of 
the  calling  of  any  officer  in  the  Church 
is  this:  Is  he  in  harmony  with  the 
brethren  of  that  body  to  which  he 
belongs?  When  we  are  out  of  harmony, 
we  should  look  to  ourselves  first  to  find 
the  way  to  unity.  A  wise  man  has 
given  us  the  key  to  his  development  in 
his  unforgettable  statement;  here  are 
his  wise  words:  "If  there  was  any  'key' 
to  this  process  of  growing  up,  it  lay 
in  the  systematic  effort  I  made  to  sub- 
ject myself  to  critical  self-appraisal.  As 
I  came  to  know  myself,  I  acquired  a 
better  understanding  of  other  people." 
(Bernard  Baruch.) 

Martin  Harris,  you  remember,  was 
warned  particularly  to  repent  of  his 
sins,  for  he  sought  the  praise  of 
the  world.  (D&C  58:39.)  I  suppose  the 
love  of  praise  and  adulation  of  the 
world  is  the  beginning  of  the  downfall 
of  many  men.  Alma,  a  prophet  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  seemed  to  make  it 
clear  that  the  sowing  of  the  seeds  of 
hatred,  suspicion,  and  contention  in 
any  organization  is  destructive  of  the 
purpose  of  life  and  unbecoming  to  the 
children  of  God. 

This  is  a  part  of  a  great  sermon 
delivered  by  this  ancient  prophet: 
"And  he  commanded  them  that  they 
should  teach  nothing  save  it  were  the 
things  which  he  had  taught,  and  which 
had  been  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  the 
holy  prophets. 


Second  Day 

"Yea,  even  he  commanded  them 
that  they  should  preach  nothing  save 
it  were  repentance  and  faith  on  the 
Lord,  who  had  redeemed  his  people. 

"And  he  commanded  them  that 
there  should  be  no  contention  one  with 
another,  but  that  they  should  look 
forward  with  one  eye,  having  one  faith 
and  one  baptism,  having  their  hearts 
knit  together  in  unity  and  in  love  one 
towards  another. 

"And  thus  he  commanded  them  to 
preach.  And  thus  they  became  the 
children  of  God."  (Mosiah  18:19-22.) 

Power  of  the  works  of  God 

A  few  years  ago  while  touring  the 
missions  of  South  America,  I  heard 
President  William  Grant  Bangerter  of 
the  Brazilian  Mission  make  some  in- 
teresting comments.  He  reported  that 
there  had  been  a  wave  of  incidents  in 
which  evil  spirits  were  afflicting  the 
missionaries  and  the  Saints.  At  every 
conference  the  missionaries  were  re- 
lating experiences  they  were  having 
with  evil  spirits.  The  intensity  of  their 
influence  was  frightening.  The  mis- 
sion president  admonished  them  to 
cease  talking  about  the  works  of  the 
devil  in  the  future  and  instead  teach 
with  power  the  works  of  the  Lord  and 
bear  testimony  of  his  works  among 
them.  There  was  an  almost  imme- 
diate cessation  of  the  power  of  the 
evil  spirits  when  the  people  confined 
their  testimonies  to  the  works  of  the 
Lord  rather  than  of  Satan,  the  mission 
president  told  me. 

We  should  all  learn  that  the  funda- 
mentals of  gospel  teachings  are  the 
Lord's  weapons  against  evil  and  sins 
of  all  kind,  whether  they  be  political 
dangers,  immorality,  threatened  family 
disasters,  or  any  other  sinister  afflic- 
tions among  us. 

One  wise  teacher,  the  superintendent 
of  California  schools,  has  said:  You 
don't  train  a  boy  to  refrain  from 
burglary  by  teaching  him  how  to 
manipulate  the  tumblers  of  a  safe  in 
the  dark;  neither  do  you  teach  him  to 
avoid  immorality  by  teaching  him  all 
about  sex  in  the  school  room.  (Dr. 
Max  Rafferty,  in  The  Salt  Lake 
Tribune,  1964.)    By  the  same  token, 


ELDER  HAi 

you  don't  teach  people  to  avoid  Com- 
munism by  telling  them  all  about 
Communism  or  to  avoid  murderous 
acts  of  violence  by  constantly  telling 
horror  stories. 

Freedom  and  obedience 

President  David  O.  McKay  has  said 
it  better  than  I  can.  "In  these  days  of 
uncertainty  and  unrest,  liberty-loving 
people's  greatest  responsibility  and 
paramount  duty  is  to  preserve  and 
proclaim  the  freedom  of  the  individual, 
his  relationship  to  Deity,  and  the 
necessity  of  obedience  to  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Only 
thus  will  mankind  find  peace  and  hap- 
piness." (President  David  O.  McKay, 
The  Improvement  Era,  Dec.  1962,  p. 
903.) 

I  should  like  to  read  that  again  be- 
cause it  is  the  key  to  what  I  am  trying 
to  say:  "In  these  days  of  uncertainty 
and  unrest,  liberty-loving  people's 
greatest  responsibility  and  paramount 
duty  is  to  preserve  and  proclaim  the 
freedom  of  the  individual,  his  relation- 
ship to  Deity,  and  the  necessity  of 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Only  thus  will 
mankind  find  peace  and  happiness." 

Man's  relationship  to  Deity 

The  conclusions  we  must  reach  are 
inescapable  as  we  ponder  these  pro- 
found declarations.  One  who  has  an 
abiding  conviction  concerning  God,  who 
has  faith  in  his  relationship  to  Deity 
and  the  necessity  of  obedience  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
who  believes  in  and  has  a  love  for  the 
Son  of  God,  and  who  has  a  feeling  of 
certainty  as  to  the  immortality  of  the 
soul  can  successfully  combat  sin  and 
unrighteousness  in  any  guise. 

Ours,  then,  must  be  a  positive  rather 
than  a  negative  approach,  as  indicated 
by  these  divine  instructions.  The  Lord 
has  explained  this  in  his  preface  to 
his  revelations  in  our  day,  as  he  tells  us 
the  value  of  the  scriptures  and  why  the 
fullness  of  gospel  teachings  was  given 
to  us  today.    He  said: 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing 
the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called 


OLD  B.  LEE  67 

upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun., 
and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and 
gave  him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this 
that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was 
written  by  the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not 
counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust 
in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak 
in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in 
the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant 
might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel 
might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 
the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world, 
and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken 
it;  these  commandments  are  of  me, 
and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in 
their  weakness,  after  the  manner  of 
their  language,  that  they  might  come 
to  understanding. 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  erred  it 
might  be  made  known; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sought  wis- 
dom they  might  be  instructed; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sinned  they 
might  be  chastened,  that  they  might 
repent; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  were  hum- 
ble they  might  be  made  strong,  and 
blessed  from  on  high,  and  receive 
knowledge  from  time  to  time."  (D&C 
1:17-28.) 

Beware  false  leaders 

How  much  clearer  can  the  Lord  tell 
us  the  value  of  the  gospel  in  keeping 
us  from  following  false  leaders  up 
blind  alleys? 

The  Lord  has  sounded  a  warning  to 
all  of  us  who  hold  responsible  places 
in  his  kingdom  in  this  day. 

Said  he: 

"But  there  is  a  possibility  that  man 
may  fall  from  grace  and  depart  from 
the  living  God; 


68  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

"Therefore  let  the  church  take  heed 
and  pray  always,  lest  they  fall  into 
temptation; 

"Yea,  and  even  let  those  who  are 
sanctified  take  heed  also."  (D&C  20:32- 
34.)  The  sanctified,  as  defined,  are 
those  who  have  a  holiness  of  life  and 
character — those  who  may  have  titles 
of  high  places  in  the  Church. 

A  President  of  the  Church  has  told 
us  where  we  may  expect  to  find  false 
leaders: 

"First,"  he  said,  "The  hopelessly 
ignorant,  whose  lack  of  intelligence  is 
due  to  their  indolence  and  sloth.  .  .  . 

"Second — The  proud  and  self-vaunt- 
ing ones,  who  read  by  the  lamp  of 
their  own  conceit;  who  interpret  by 
rules  of  their  own  contriving;  who  have 
become  a  law  unto  themselves,  and  so 
pose  as  the  sole  judges  of  their  own 
doings."  (President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Gospel  Doctrine,  twelfth  ed.,  p.  373.) 

Allegiance  to  God 

Ours  is  the  great  responsibility  to  be- 
come fully  involved  in  the  great  drive 
going  forward  in  the  Church  today: 
to  impress  parents  with  their  respon- 
sibility to  teach  their  own  families  in 
their  homes  and  to  have  a  completely 
correlated  course  of  gospel  teachings  in 
church  auxiliaries  and  priesthood  quo- 
rums for  the  children,  the  youth,  and 
the  adults — all  to  the  end  that  we 
might  develop  a  gospel  scholarship  in 
the  individual  that  will  withstand 
in  this  evil  day  the  forces  that,  without 
this  abiding  testimony  of  the  gospel, 
would  make  us  and  our  children  prey 
to  all  the  vices  and  false  ideologies  in 
the  world. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  pour  out 
his  knowledge  upon  his  Church  and 
give  to  all  who  are  members,  and  in- 
deed to  all  the  honorable  of  the  earth, 
attentive  minds  and  obedient  hearts, 
that  he  may  indeed  be  an  ensign  to 
the  world  as  prophesied  when  "many 
people  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and 
let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob; 
and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and 
we  will  walk  in  his  paths.  .  .  ."  (Isa. 
2:3.) 


Second  Day 

For  that  I  pray  humbly  for  all  of  us 
as  individuals  and  for  the  Church 
collectively. 

The  Master  closed  his  last  recorded 
sermon  prior  to  his  crucifixion  with 
the  words:  "These  things  I  have  spoken 
unto  you,  that  in  me  ye  might  have 
peace.  In  the  world  ye  shall  have 
tribulation:  but  be  of  good  cheer;  I 
have  overcome  the  world."  (John 
16:33.) 

I  humbly  bear  solemn  witness  to  the 
life  and  mission  of  our  Lord  and  Mas- 
ter, the  Prince  of  Peace,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  stirring  address  to  which  you 
have  just  listened  was  given  by  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

This  memorable  session  of  a  great 
conference  was  highlighted  today  by 
an  inspired  and  inspiring  address  by 
the  President  of  the  Church,  President 
David  O.  McKay. 

We  wish  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
the  managers  and  operators  and  net- 
works over  200  television  and  radio 
stations  in  offering  their  facilities  as 
a  public  service  to  make  the  proceed- 
ings of  this  conference  available  to 
millions  throughout  North  and  South 
America,  Europe,  Africa  and  many 
other  areas  of  the  world.  We  appre- 
ciate the  attendance  here  of  educators, 
government  officials,  Church  officials, 
and  all  visitors  who  have  made  this 
service  so  memorable. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  of 
the  conference  by  the  Choir  singing: 
"Lord  Who  Has  Made  Us  For  Thine 
Own."  Following  the  singing  the 
benediction  will  be  pronounced  by 
Elder  Rodney  A.  Hansen,  president  of 
the  Minidoka,  Idaho  Stake,  and  this 
conference  will  then  be  adjourned 
until  2:00  this  afternoon. 


The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  "Lord,  Who  Has  Made  Us  For 
Thine  Own." 

Elder  Rodney  A.  Hansen,  president 
of  Minidoka  Stake,  pronounced  the 
benediction. 


69 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  conference  reconvened  at  2:00 
p.m.,  Saturday,  April  9th,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
President  N.  Eldon  Tanner,  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducting. (President  McKay,  though 
not  present  in  person,  watched  and  lis- 
tened to  the  service  in  his  apartment 
by  means  of  television. 

The  Ogden  LDS  Institute  Chorale, 
Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  conductor, 
furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 

Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  was  at  the 
console  of  the  organ. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Those  who  were  present  this  morn- 
ing, or  who  listened  in  over  the  radio 
or  television,  were  privileged  to  hear 
the  inspiring  message  from  our  proph- 
et, David  O.  McKay.  Though  he  is 
not  with  us  in  person  this  afternoon 
he  is  with  us  in  spirit,  and  is  watching 
the  session  by  television  in  his  apart- 
ment. He  has  asked  me  to  conduct 
the  exercises  this  afternoon. 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
tuned  in  by  radio  and  television,  we 
are  pleased  to  announce  that  we  are 
assembled  in  the  historic  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
in  the  fourth  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-sixth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

These  services  are  being  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  television. 
Those  standing  in  the  doorways  may 
possibly  find  seats  in  that  building. 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio.  We  again  express 
our  appreciation  for  the  service  that  is 
being  rendered  by  these  stations. 

This  morning's  session,  in  addition 
to  being  broadcast  direct,  was  video- 
taped for  release  over  many  television 
stations  tomorrow  morning  (Easter 
Sunday)  to  the  eastern  and  central 
parts  of  the  United  States. 


A  video-tape  of  the  session  this 
morning  is  now  on  its  way  by  air,  and 
will  be  telecast  tomorrow  morning  in 
Hawaii. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be 
re-broadcast  over  KSL  Radio  Station 
Sunday  morning  starting  at  one  o'clock 
and  will  be  heard  in  many  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  the  world,  in- 
cluding Canada,  Mexico,  Alaska,  and 
the  islands  of  the  Pacific,  and  in  New 
Zealand  and  Australia  over  KIRO 
Radio  at  Seattle. 

We  are  pleased  that  this  morning's 
session  will  reach  a  vast  audience  of 
listeners,  both  in  the  United  States 
and  abroad. 

We  have  received  some  telegrams 
addressed  to  President  McKay  from  the 
Irish  Mission,  from  the  Swiss  Mission, 
from  the  Central  British  Mission,  from 
the  Southwest  British  Mission,  the 
British  South  Mission,  the  Central 
German  Mission,  the  North  German 
Mission,  the  Australian  saints  and  mis- 
sionaries, and  the  French  Mission.  I 
shall  not  take  time  to  read  these  tele- 
grams, but  we  are  very  happy  to  re- 
ceive them  and  know  that  our 
Conference  is  being  seen  and  heard 
in  those  parts  of  the  world. 

We  have  been  informed  that  a  group 
of  ninety  Mormon  servicemen,  who  are 
stationed  in  Tennessee  and  Kentucky, 
have  been  flown  to  Salt  Lake  City 
through  the  cooperation  of  the  Air 
Force  and  are  in  attendance  here  this 
afternoon.  We  are  certainly  pleased 
to  have  them  with  us,  and  welcome 
them,  and  pray  that  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  will  attend  them  here  and 
always. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  also  in  at- 
tendance this  afternoon  special  guests, 
prominent  State  and  City  officials,  and 
leaders  in  educational  circles.  We 
extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  them,  and 
to  all  who  are  attending  here  today, 
and  to  those  who  are  listening  in. 

President  McKay  joins  in  extending 
a  most  cordial  welcome  to  our  vast 


70 

Saturday,  April  9 

unseen  audience,  and  to  all  who  are 
gathered  in  this  historic  building. 

We  should  like  again  to  express  our 
appreciation  for  these  lovely  flowers 
that  are  here  on  the  rostrum  in  front 
of  you  and  in  different  parts  of  the 
building,  and  would  especially  like  to 
make  note  of  these  two  vases  of  flowers 
on  either  side  of  me  which  have  been 
presented  to  us  by  the  Hopi  Indians. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Ogden 
LDS  Institute  Chorale,  conducted  by 
Brother  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  with  Brother 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  are  exceedingly  pleased  to  have 
these  young  men  and  women  with  us 
this  afternoon,  and  extend  a  hearty 
welcome  to  them. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
choir  singing,  "The  Forty-sixth  Psalm," 
conducted  by  Brother  Cropper. 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Ralph  J.  Hill,  formerly  president 
of  the  Texas  Mission. 


Singing:  "The  Forty-Sixth  Psalm." 
Prayer:    Ralph    J.    Hill,  formerly 
President  of  the  Texas  Mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Ralph  J.  Hill,  formerly  president 
of  the  Texas  Mission. 

Sister  Isaacson  has  asked  that  I  ex- 
press on  behalf  of  President  Isaacson 
and  the  family  their  appreciation  of 
your  faith  and  prayers  in  his  behalf. 
He  is  listening  in  and  is  glad  to  be 
with  us  in  spirit. 

The  Ogden  Institute  Chorale  will 
now  favor  us  with  "A  Prophet  Stood." 
This  was  inspired  by  and  dedicated  to 
our  beloved  prophet,  President  David 
O.  McKay.  The  lyrics  and  music  were 
written  by  Sister  Lorraine  S.  Wilkin- 
son. President  McKay,  who  is  listen- 
ing in,  has  asked  that  I  express  to  the 
choir  his  appreciation  for  this  number. 

Following  this  number  Spencer  W. 
Kimball  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  be  our  first  speaker  this  afternoon. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alma 
Sonne. 

Singing:  "A  Prophet  Stood" 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 

Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 

first  speaker. 

Brother  Kimball: 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


One  night  I  lay  awake  thinking 
through  the  problems  of  the  day.  All 
week  there  had  filed  by  my  desk  peo- 
ple— wonderful  people — some  bowed  in 
grief  and  anguish  of  soul;  others  learn- 
ing repentance  through  life's  penalties; 
some  frustrated  in  their  marital  upsets, 
in  their  moral  aberrations,  in  their 
financial  reverses,  and  in  their  spiritual 
deficiencies. 

These  people  were  good  people 
basically;  but  as  they  traveled,  they 
had  found  difficulty  in  staying  on  the 
main  thoroughfare  and  had  deviated 
on  side  roads;  they  had  forgotten  cove- 
nants and  postponed  putting  into  effect 
their  good  resolutions. 

"Forgotten  wedges" 

There  came  to  my  mind  an  article 


by  Samuel  T.  Whitman  entitled  "For- 
gotten Wedges."  I  had  learned  to  use 
wedges  when  I  was  a  lad  in  Arizona, 
it  being  my  duty  to  supply  wood  for 
many  fires  in  the  big  house.  May  I 
quote  Whitman: 

"The  ice  storm  wasn't  generally  de- 
structive. True,  a  few  wires  came 
down,  and  there  was  a  sudden  jump 
in  accidents  along  the  highway.  Walk- 
ing out  of  doors  became  unpleasant 
and  difficult.  It  was  disagreeable 
weather,  but  it  was  not  serious.  Nor- 
mally, the  big  walnut  tree  could  easily 
have  borne  the  weight  that  formed  on 
its  spreading  limbs.  It  was  the  iron 
wedge  in  its  heart  that  caused  the 
damage. 

"The  story  of  the  iron  wedge  began 
years    ago    when    the  white-haired 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


71 


farmer  was  a  lad  on  his  father's  home- 
stead. The  sawmill  had  then  only 
recently  been  moved  from  the  valley, 
and  the  settlers  were  still  finding  tools 
and  odd  pieces  of  equipment  scattered 
about.  .  .  . 

"On  this  particular  day,  it  was  a 
faller's  wedge; — wide,  flat,  and  heavy, 
a  foot  or  more  long,  and  splayed  from 
mighty  poundings.  The  path  from  the 
south  pasture  did  not  pass  the  wood- 
shed; and,  because  he  was  already  late 
for  dinner,  the  lad  laid  the  wedge  .  .  . 
between  the  limbs  of  the  young  walnut 
tree  his  father  had  planted  near  the 
front  gate.  He  would  take  the  wedge 
to  the  shed  right  after  dinner,  or  some- 
time when  he  was  going  that  way. 

"He  truly  meant  to,  but  he  never 
did.  It  was  there  between  the  limbs, 
a  little  tight,  when  he  attained  his 
manhood.  It  was  there,  now  firmly 
gripped,  when  he  married  and  took 
over  his  father's  farm.  It  was  half 
grown  over  on  the  day  the  threshing 
crew  ate  dinner  under  the  tree.  .  .  . 
Grown  in  and  healed  over,  the  wedge 
was  still  in  the  tree  the  winter  the  ice 
storm  came. 

"In  the  chill  silence  of  that  wintry 
night,  with  the  mist  like  rain  sifting 
down  and  freezing  where  it  fell,  one 
of  the  three  major  limbs  split  away 
from  the  trunk  and  crashed  to  the 
ground.  This  so  unbalanced  the  re- 
mainder of  the  top  that  it,  too,  split 
apart  and  went  down.  When  the  storm 
was  over,  not  a  twig  of  the  once- 
proud  tree  remained. 

"Early  the  next  morning,  the  farmer 
went  out  to  mourn  his  loss.  'Wouldn't 
have  had  that  happen  for  a  thousand 
dollars,'  he  said.  'Prettiest  tree  in  the 
valley,  that  was.' 

"Then,  his  eyes  caught  sight  of  some- 
thing in  the  splintered  ruin.  'The 
wedge,'  he  muttered  reproachfully. 
'The  wedge  I  found  in  the  south  pas- 
ture.' A  glance  told  him  why  the  tree 
had  fallen.  Growing  edge-up  in  the 
trunk,  the  wedge  had  prevented  the 
limb  fibers  from  knitting  together  as 
they  should." 

Forgotten  wedges!  Hidden  weak- 
nesses grown  over  and  invisible,  wait- 
ing until  some  winter  night  to  work 
their  ruin.  What  better  symbolizes  the 


presence  and  the  effect  of  sin  in  our 
lives? 

This  brings  to  my  memory  some 
verses  I  heard  long  years  ago  entitled: 

Jim  Died  Today 

Around  the  corner  I  have  a  friend, 
In  this  great  city  which  has  no  end; 

Yet,  days  go  by  and  weeks  rush  on, 
And  before  I  know  it  a  year  has  gone. 

And  I  never  see  my  old  friend's  face; 
For  life  is  a  swift  and  terrible  race. 

He  knows  I  like  him  just  as  well 
As  in  the  days  when  I  rang  his  bell 

And  he  rang  mine.  We  were  younger 
then 

And  now  we  are  busy  tired  men — 

Tired  with  playing  the  foolish  game; 
Tired  with  trying  to  make  a  name; 

Tomorrow,  I  say,  I  will  call  on  Jim, 
Just  to  show  I'm  thinking  of  him. 

But  tomorrow  comes  and  tomorrow 
goes; 

And  the  distance  between  us  grows 
and  grows 

Around  the  corner!  Yet  miles  away — 
Here's    a    telegram,  sir — "Jim  died 
today!" 

And  that's  what  we  get — and  deserve 

in  the  end — 
Around  the  corner,  a  vanished  friend. 

John's  wedge 

And,  as  I  thought  of  Jim,  I  thought 
also  of  John,  my  trusted  friend.  He  was 
well  regarded  in  his  community,  hon- 
orable in  business  dealings,  kindly.  He 
frankly  admitted  his  principal  weak- 
ness. John  was  an  inveterate  chain 
smoker.  Always  a  cigarette  hung  be- 
tween his  lips.  It  seemed  as  much  a 
part  of  him  as  his  ear  or  nose  or  finger. 
Sometimes  we  joked  about  his  insepa- 
rable companion.  He  always  chuckled 
and  said,  "Everybody  is  entitled  to  one 
weakness."  And  then  in  more  sober 
moments,  he  would  become  pensive 


72  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

and  say,  "I  know  it  is  bad,  but  it  has 
hold  of  me  like  an  octopus.  Someday 
I'll  conquer  it."  Yes,  someday!  But 
the  days  sped  into  years;  his  hair  be- 
came thinner,  his  complexion  more 
sallow;  and  there  finally  came  a  cough 
— a  little  hacking  cough.  It  worried 
us  who  appreciated  his  good  qualities, 
but  there  was  little  we  could  do. 

I  moved  to  Utah  and  saw  him  no 
more  for  many  years.  Time  put  on  its 
running  shoes,  and  years  piled  up;  and 
one  day  I  was  on  assignment  in 
Phoenix  when  a  mutual  friend,  know- 
ing my  affection  for  John,  said,  "Did 
you  know  he  is  in  the  hospital  dying 
of  lung  cancer?"  Dropping  everything, 
I  rushed  to  the  hospital  but  almost  too 
late.  There  he  lay  propped  up  in  his 
bed,  breathing  irregular,  painful  gasps. 
I  was  glad  he  recognized  me  even  for 
that  single  moment.  His  forced  smile 
froze.  His  light  went  out.  He  had 
certainly  intended  to  overcome  the 
habit,  especially  after  scientific  research 
had  confirmed  the  Lord's  revelation, 
but  his  master  dictator  decreed  other- 
wise. 

Here  he  had  lain  in  fear  and  alone, 
facing  the  inevitable.  The  cancer  was 
too  deep,  too  scattered,  too  entrenched. 

I  trembled  as  I  saw  him  die,  this 
friend  of  thirty  years.  He  might  have 
lived  yet  many  years  in  health  and 
happiness.  And  as  I  stood  in  awe  and 
with  head  bowed  low,  I  remembered 
another  great  tree  that  could  not  stand 
the  storm  because  of  forgotten  wedges, 
slow  death-dealing  wedges.  Tomorrow 
he  would  have  thrown  his  cigarettes 
away,  but  that  recreant  tomorrow,  that 
procrastinating  tomorrow  that  sup- 
posedly never  comes,  was  here.  There 
would  now  never  be  another  cigarette. 
The  wedges  had  seen  to  that.  And 
then  there  came  to  me  the  words  of 
Ralph  Parlett: 

"Strength  and  struggle  travel  to- 
gether. The  supreme  reward  of  struggle 
is  strength.  Life  is  a  battle  and  the 
greatest  joy  is  to  overcome.  The  pur- 
suit of  easy  things  makes  men 
weak.  .  .  ." 

Bottle  wedge 

My  thoughts  shifted  to  a  little  boy 
in  Arizona  with  curly  hair  who  sat 


Second  Day 

upon  my  knee  long  years  ago.  His 
smile  was  beautiful  and  his  laugh  con- 
tagious. He  grew  into  handsome  man- 
hood, but  as  he  went  through  his 
teens,  he  carelessly  threw  into  the 
forks  of  his  walnut  tree  a  bottle.  In 
his  sober  moments  he  admitted  it  was 
bad  for  him.  Tomorrow  he  would  dis- 
card this  little  devil,  his  master.  Yes, 
tomorrow! 

When  he  was  married,  the  bottle 
wedge  was  still  in  the  tree  and  the 
fibers  encasing  it.  With  a  hollow 
laugh,  he  passed  it  off  and  said  he 
could  certainly  remove  it  tomorrow. 
The  cursed  thing  was  there  when  the 
children  came.  They  loved  this  hand- 
some dad!  Yet,  sometimes  came  strange 
situations  they  could  not  understand. 
Hardly  could  they  believe  this  was 
their  dad,  so  different  he  was  at  times — 
more  and  more  frequent. 

This  bottle  wedge  was  still  there 
when  the  children  were  in  their  teens. 
They  still  could  not  comprehend  how 
their  father  could  be  Dr.  Jekyll  yester- 
day and  Mr.  Hyde  today,  so  wonderful 
he  was  when  sober.  Procrastination 
and  the  bottle  wedge  became  deeper 
and  deeper  in  his  tree  and  engulfed 
by  it.  He  had  about  reached  the  point 
of  no  return. 

Years  passed,  and  he  entered  my  life 
again.  He  borrowed  two  dollars.  On 
the  spur  of  the  moment,  I  did  not 
realize  what  two  dollars  would  buy 
and  how  desperate  one  could  be  for 
what  two  dollars  would  purchase.  His 
hair  was  gray,  his  body  sloppy  fat,  his 
eyes  bleary,  his  laugh  hollow.  His 
children  were  now  on  their  own.  One 
son  had  died  in  a  tavern,  one  had 
divorced  three  times.  One  day  I  found 
him  in  the  gutter.  The  storm  had 
come,  the  wedge  was  deeply  imbedded. 
Yesterday,  with  self  control,  he  could 
have  defeated  his  enemy  and  been 
headed  toward  thrones  and  exaltations, 
but  the  yesterdays  became  tomorrows. 
And,  as  I  helped  him  out  of  the  gutter 
and  for  a  moment  to  stand  upon  his 
feet,  I  sorrowed  and  remembered 
wedges — hidden  wedges. 

And,  as  I  saw  him  fettered  and  en- 
slaved, there  came  to  my  memory  a 
paragraph  from  a  modern  writer, 
which  I  paraphrase: 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


73 


History,  which  had  yawned  for  thou- 
sands of  years,  stirred  on  her  dust- 
covered  couch,  opened  her  eyes,  and 
saw  one  more  son  of  God  become  a 
fettered  slave.  She  sighed,  sat  up, 
shook  the  dust  from  the  pages  of  her 
voluminous  book,  glanced  at  the  long 
list  of  victims,  turned  a  fresh  page, 
took  up  her  pen  and  moistened  it,  and 
wrote  another  name. 

"It  is  an  old  tale,"  she  said,  tiredly 
and  hopelessly,  as  her  old  bones  moved 
wearily  to  record  again.  "Millions 
have  followed  this  highway  through 
the  ages  of  the  past,"  she  said,  "de- 
priving spouses,  neglecting  children, 
corrupting  lives,  destroying  character." 
Then  she  remonstrated,  "Why  can  I 
never  sleep?  Why  must  I  continue  on, 
recording  distorted  lives,  corrupted 
civilizations — will  men  never  learn?" 
(Taylor  Caldwell,  The  Earth  Is  the 
Lord's,  p.  414.) 

Here  were  bottle  wedges!  the  winds 
and  whirlwind  wedges,  broken  trees 
split  open,  branchless  tree-made  skele- 
tons. 

Bill 

And  then  I  remembered  Bill.  His 
was  also  a  sad  story.  His  beginnings 
were  auspicious,  his  backgrounds  good. 
Even  his  home  life  was  better  than 
average,  but  he  was  tiring  of  restraints. 

He  would  enlist  in  the  military 
service,  where  he  could  do  what  he 
wanted  to  do.  A  short  training  period 
and  he  was  shipped  abroad.  Saigon 
was  an  intriguing  city  with  its  great 
river,  its  exotic  nature,  its  strange 
people. 

One  day  he  relaxed  his  hold,  yielded 
to  impulse,  made  a  contact  that 
dropped  him  into  a  foreign  world  to 
him — a  world  of  sin.  His  training 
came  to  his  rescue  and  brought  him  to 
his  knees  in  repentance.  But  the 
memory  of  man  is  short,  and  the  sensa- 
tions and  demands  of  the  carnal  are 
insistent;  and  with  abandon,  he  threw 
his  wedge  into  the  forks  of  his  walnut 
tree.  Some  day  he  would  remove  the 
wedge  and  put  it  away  where  it 
belonged. 

Under  some  pressures  from  asso- 
ciates, he  began  to  smoke  and  then  to 


drink,  his  inhibitions  smothered.  With 
his  wedge  in  the  forks  of  his  tree,  he 
was  uncomfortable  at  first  and  his  con- 
science hurt,  but  soon  he  seared  it. 
Many  months  passed,  and  his  military 
stint  was  nearing  the  end.  On  one  of 
the  many  occasions  when  he  had  im- 
bibed too  freely,  he  pulled  from  his 
pocket  a  handful  of  coins  and  boasted 
loudly,  "With  these  coins  I  can  buy 
every  kind  of  sin  in  the  book."  And  he 
heedlessly  proceeded  to  make  his  pur- 
chase. Long  ago  he  had  ceased  to 
pray.  How  could  he  ask  the  Lord's 
blessings  upon  his  sinful  acts,  perver- 
sions, and  aberrations?  Not  long  now 
and  he  would  be  done  with  this  war 
business  and  would  return  to  normal 
life.  Surely  he  would  remove  the 
wedge  then. 

He  did  go  home,  but  by  now  his 
mischief  was  entrenched,  his  habits 
of  thought  and  action  too  deeply  im- 
bedded, his  willpower  too  weak. 

Fibers  had  grown  over  the  wedge. 
Nothing  short  of  major  tree  surgery 
could  remove  it  now. 

And  then  I  remembered  the  story  of 
the  young  farmer  grown  old  and  the 
walnut  tree  split  apart,  and  I  thought 
again:  Forgotten  wedgesl  Hidden 
wedges!  And  my  heart  was  heavy. 
Then  Horace  Greeley's  words  came  to 
me: 

Self-mastery 

"The  height  of  a  man's  success  is 
gauged  by  his  self-mastery;  the  depth 
of  his  failure  by  his  self-abandonment. 
There  is  no  other  limitation  in  either 
direction.  And  this  law  is  the  expres- 
sion of  eternal  justice. 

"He  who  cannot  establish  a  domin- 
ion over  himself  will  have  no  dominion 
over  others,  he  who  masters  himself 
shall  be  king." 

Wedges  of  conflicts 

Then  came  the  couple  from  Texas. 
In  their  prolonged  conflicts,  selfishness, 
and  stubbornness,  a  wide  chasm  had 
deepened  between  them.  Their  rela- 
tives mourned  for  them,  their  leaders 
struggled  with  them,  and  their  inno- 
cent children  suffered  from  frustration, 
rebellion,  and  delinquency  because  of 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  9 

these  two  potentially  great  souls.  The 
beautiful  love  of  16  years  ago  was  fast 
changing  to  hate;  the  long-ago  trust 
was  turning  to  bitterness;  each  was 
bent  upon  reforming  the  other.  Argu- 
ment, pressures,  levers,  and  threats 
were  used  to  bend  the  other  to  his  and 
her  will.  And  while  they  quarreled 
and  manufactured  venom  in  their  in- 
criminations and  recriminations,  they 
shriveled  and  wrinkled  and  dwarfed. 
The  former  great  gentleman  became  a 
quarrelsome  antagonist;  the  former 
lovely  lady  became  a  shrew.  Two 
selfish  people  degenerated  to  wizened 
little  pygmies.  Their  wedges  had  now 
been  long  in  the  tree.  Some  day  he 
would  conquer  her.  Some  day  she 
would  win,  justifying  her  position. 
Yes,  they  would  tomorrow  correct  their 
errors,  swallow  their  pride,  neutralize 
their  selfishness,  and  remove  the 
wedge,  but  already  it  was  tight  in  the 
forks. 

Oh,  how  blind  is  self-centered, 
selfish  man,  with  his  ugly  wedges! 

These  folks  may  never  get  their 
"chariot  of  the  sun"  as  expressed  by 
Ralph  Waldo  Emerson: 

"Every  man  takes  care  that  his 
neighbor  shall  not  cheat  him.  But  a 
day  comes  when  he  begins  to  care  that 
he  does  not  cheat  his  neighbor.  Then 
all  goes  well.  He  has  changed  his 
market  cart  into  a  chariot  of  the  sun." 

And  Phillips  Brooks  addressed  such 
who  permit  themselves  hatred  and 
bitterness: 

"You  who  are  letting  miserable  mis- 
understandings run  on  from  year  to 
year,  meaning  to  clear  them  up  some 
day;  you  who  are  keeping  wretched 
quarrels  alive  because  you  cannot  quite 
make  up  your  mind  that  now  is  the 
day  to  sacrifice  your  pride  and  kill 
them;  you  who  are  passing  men  sul- 
lenly upon  the  street,  not  speaking  to 
them  out  of  some  silly  spite,  and  yet 
knowing  that  it  would  fill  you  with 
shame  and  remorse  if  you  heard  that 
one  of  those  men  were  dead  tomorrow 
morning;  you  who  are  letting  your 
neighbor  starve,  till  you  hear  that  he 
is  dying  of  starvation;  or  letting  your 
friend's  heart  ache  for  a  word  of  appre- 


Second  Day 

ciation  or  sympathy  which  you  mean 
to  give  him  some  day;  if  you  only 
could  know  and  see  and  feel,  all  of  a 
sudden,  that  'the  time  is  short.'  How 
it  would  break  the  spell!  How  you 
would  go  instantly  and  do  the  thing 
which  you  might  never  have  another 
chance  to  do!" 

Power  to  remove  wedges 

And  then,  I  applied  the  wedge 
story  in  another  area.  For  more  than 
a  century  the  living  gospel  has  been 
restored  on  the  earth,  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  missionaries  have  pro- 
claimed to  millions  the  true  message. 
Their  testimonies  have  touched  many 
hearts  that  said,  "Yes,"  but  whose 
lips  with  human  fears  resisted  their 
accepting  the  gospel  toward  their 
eternal  welfare.  They  have  trembled 
as  the  Holy  Ghost  whispered  to  their 
spirits,  "It  is  true — embrace  it,"  and  yet 
poor  excuses  caused  their  postponing 
action.  Numerous  are  those  who  all 
over  the  world  have  received  the  wit- 
ness that  the  gospel  is  true,  yet  have 
postponed  baptism.  Great  numbers 
have  heard  of  the  additional  scripture, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  contains 
the  fullness  of  the  gospel,  yet  never 
have  absorbed  its  truths.  A  million 
copies  of  it  found  their  way  in  a  mil- 
lion home  libraries  last  year  and  other 
millions  previously,  yet  procrastinat- 
ing people  have  failed  to  complete 
their  investigation  and  have  remained 
estranged.  "Tomorrow  I  will  read  it," 
they  say;  "another  day  I  will  invite 
the  missionaries  to  teach  me."  But 
tomorrow  is  a  sluggard  and  shifts 
along  on  leaden  feet,  and  life  goes  on, 
and  storms  do  come,  and  limbs  are 
split,  and  trees  do  fall,  and  eternity 
approaches,  and  our  sincere  call  goes 
unheeded. 

Percy  Adams  Hutchison  ( 1878-  ) 
gave  this  verse  in  his  "Swordless 
Christ"  (Vicisti  Galilee,  stanza  1): 

"Ay,  down  the  years,  behold  he  rides, 
The  lowly  Christ,  upon  an  ass; 
But  conquering?  Ten  shall  heed  the 
call, 

A  thousand  idly  watch  him  pass." 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


75 


And  I  wondered  how  many  tens  of 
thousands  did  hear  his  voice,  felt  an 
inner  twinge  of  heart,  felt  impelled 
to  follow,  but  lingered  and  pro- 
crastinated. 

Procrastination  intrenches 
the  wedge 

How  many  saw  his  smile  and  heard 
his  sermons  on  the  mount  and  were 
pricked  in  their  hearts,  but  stopped 
to  eat  and  sleep  and  work  and  play, 
and  failed  to  heed? 

Numerous  ones  must  have  jostled 
him  in  narrow  streets  of  Jerusalem 
and  turned  around  and  looked  the 
second  time  at  him  whom  they  had 
touched,  but  went  their  way  to  daily 
tasks  and  missed  their  opportunity. 

How  many  heard  the  story  of  his 
walking  on  the  water  but  were  too 
busy  with  their  selling  fish  in  the 
market  or  herding  sheep  to  ask  the 
vital  reasons  and  fathom  the  deep 
powers? 

How  many  who  saw  him  hanging 
there  upon  the  cross  saw  only  wood 
beams  and  nails  and  flesh  and  blood 
and  made  no  effort  to  penetrate  the 
purposes  and  the  reasons:  how  one 
could  choose  to  die  such  an  igno- 
minious death;  how  one  could  be  so 
controlled  in  time  of  such  excruciating 
pain;  what  were  the  reasons  behind 
such  treatment;  what  were  the  deep 
purposes;  who  was  this  "author  of 
eternal  salvation  unto  all  them  that 
obey  him"?  (Heb.  5:9.) 

How  many  felt  the  stir  that  comes 
in  human  breasts  when  truth,  pressed 
in  upon  them  but  pressured  by  minor 
exigencies,  moves  far  away  from  their 
eternal  destiny? 

And  then  I  think:  Procrastination — 
thou  wretched  thief  of  time  and  oppor- 
tunity 1 

When  will  men  stand  true  to  their 
one-time  inspired  yearnings? 

Let  those  take  care  who  postpone  the 
clearing  of  bad  habits  and  of  con- 
structively doing  what  they  ought. 
"Some  day  I'll  join  the  Church,"  says 
one.  "I'll  cease  my  drinking  soon," 
says  another.  "One  day  I'll  smoke  no 
more,"  others  pledge.  "Some  day  we'll 
be  ready  for  our  temple  sealings," 


promise  a  delayed-action  husband  and 
wife.  "Some  day,  when  they  apolo- 
gize, I'll  forgive  those  who  injured 
me,"  small  souls  say.  "Some  day  I'll 
get  my  debts  paid."  "We'll  get  around 
soon  to  having  our  family  prayers, 
and  next  week  we'll  start  our  home 
evenings."  "We  shall  start  paying 
tithing  from  our  next  pay  check."  To- 
morrow— yes,  tomorrow. 

Wedges  of  flaws  and  sin 

And  then,  we  quote  more  lines  from 
Whitman: 

"Pride,  envy,  selfishness,  dishonesty, 
intemperance,  doubt,  secret  passions — 
almost  numberless  in  variety  and  de- 
gree are  the  wedges  of  sin.  And  alas! 
almost  numberless  are  the  men  and 
women  who  today  are  allowing  sin  to 
grow  in  the  heart  wood  of  their  lives. 

"The  wedge  is  there.  We  know  it  is 
there.  We  put  it  there  ourselves  one 
day,  when  we  were  hurried  and 
thoughtless.  It  shouldn't  be  there,  of 
course.  It  is  harming  the  tree.  But 
we  are  busy  so  we  leave  it  there;  and 
in  time,  it  grows  over  and  we  forget. 
The  years  slip  swiftly  by.  Wintertime 
comes  with  its  storms  and  ice.  The  life 
we  prized  so  much  goes  down  in  the 
unspeakable  loss  of  spiritual  disaster. 
For  years  after  the  wedge  had  grown 
over,  the  tree  flourished  and  gave  no 
sign  of  its  inner  weakness.  Thus  it  is 
with  sin. 

"Many  a  fine  house  on  many  a  fine 
street  has  a  wedge  of  sin  within  its 
elegance.  And  many  a  man  who 
walks  the  streets  in  pride  and  arro- 
gance of  worldly  success  is  an 
unrepentant  sinner  before  God.  Never- 
theless, the  wedge  is  there  and  in  the 
end  of  its  work  is  a  fallen  tree,  split 
and  shattered  and  worthless." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  that  we 
may  early  recognize  and  remember  and 
remove  all  wedges  before  they  wreak 
their  havoc  in  our  lives,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  9  Second  Day 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the    McConlde,  of  the  First  Council  of 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us,  and  he  Seventy, 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Bruce  R.       Elder  Sonne 


ELDER  AL 

Assistant  to  the  Counci, 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  Elder 
Kimball's  remarks  reminded  me  of  the 
first  memory  gem  I  learned  in  Primary: 

"Defer  not  till  tomorrow  to  be  wise, 
Tomorrow's  sun  to  thee  may  never 
rise." 

(William  Congreve, 
Letter  to  Cobham.) 

Economically,  the  world  at  present 
is  disturbed  about  inflation.  And  it 
has  been  stated  that  only  a  spiritual 
revival  can  prevent  it  from  becoming 
a  catastrophe.  I  am  sure  a  spiritual 
revival  would  solve  many  problems  in 
our  country  and  elsewhere. 

Thrift,  self-reliance,  work 

But  when  all  is  said  and  done,  the 
best  hedge  against  inflation  is  the 
character  of  the  people.  New  ideas, 
new  methods,  new  departures  from  the 
beaten  path  will  come  and  go,  but 
fundamental  things  like  thrift,  self- 
reliance,  and  hard  work  will  be  re- 
stored in  the  final  solution.  Security 
does  not  come  without  preparation. 
Health  and  happiness  cannot  be 
bought  or  given.  They  are  products  of 
service  and  sacrifice.  Only  righteous- 
ness can  exalt  a  nation  and  an  individ- 
ual. History  has  so  proved.  This  was 
true  3,000  years  ago  and  it  is  true 
today. 

Economist  testifies  of  value 
of  righteousness 

Roger  Babson  once  said:  "When 
Jesus  appealed  to  people  to  give  to  the 
poor,  He  .  .  .  had  in  mind  the  good 
of  the  giver  even  more  than  the  good 
of  the  recipient."  (Roger  W.  Babson, 
If  Further  Inflation  Comes  [Philadel- 
phia: J.  B.  Lippincott  Company, 
1950],  p.  201.) 

He  also  said  that  the  safest  hedge 


IA  SONNE 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

against  inflation  is  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, especially  the  last,  "Thou 
shalt  not  covet.  .  .  ."  He  refers  to 
changes  that  have  come,  like  universal 
suffrage,  the  increase  in  transportation 
by  means  of  the  automobile  and  the 
airplane,  the  increase  in  vision  through 
motion  pictures  and  television.  "Hear- 
ing," said  he,  "has  multiplied  a  thou- 
sand times  through  the  radio.  Yet  in 
the  same  period  there  has  been  almost 
no  increase  in  the  nation's  character. 
.  .  .  A  sane  faith  and  philosophy  of 
life  is  of  greater  economic  importance 
than  the  gold  content  of  the  dollar." 
(Ibid,  p.  205.) 

"Serve  the  God  of  this  land" 

I  believe  the  United  States  of  Amer- 
ica will  be  free  from  bondage, 
economic  and  otherwise,  ".  .  .  if  they 
will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land, 
who  is  Jesus  Christ.  .  .  ."  (Eth.  2:12.) 
There  is  only  one  plan  by  which 
humanity  can  be  saved  and  preserved, 
and  that  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  all  of  its  wide  ramifications. 

We  have  moved  forward  so  rapidly 
in  the  various  avenues  that  we  have 
lost  our  bearings.  Thoughtlessness  and 
expediency  dominate  our  efforts  to  suc- 
ceed. 

The  other  night  I  asked  a  group  of 
teen-agers  to  read  the  story  of  the 
Prodigal  Son.  Charles  Dickens  said: 
"It  is  the  most  beautiful  story  ever 
told."  It  is  not  difficult  to  picture 
that  wayward  son  as  he  returned  to 
his  home,  disappointed  and  ashamed 
— in  rags  and  tatters.  He  had  lost  his 
inheritance,  he  had  wasted  his  sub- 
stance in  riotous  living,  he  had  thrown 
away  his  opportunities,  and  he  was 
now  back  where  he  started. 

I  reminded  these  youngsters  that  the 
greatest  tragedy  in  human  experience 
is  a  misspent  life.  Haphazard  use  of 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


77 


time,  money,  and  energy  means  a  poor 
return,  devoid  of  satisfaction  and 
fraught  with  failure  and  uncertainty. 
The  young  people  to  whom  I  refer  are 
the  homemakers  of  tomorrow  and  the 
future  citizens  of  our  country. 

Honor  sacred  covenants 

To  me  there  is  no  grander  spectacle 
in  this  world  than  that  of  a  young 
man  and  a  young  woman  kneeling  at 
the  altar  and  joining  hands  in  holy 
wedlock  and  pledging  to  each  other 
their  love  and  devotion  for  time  and 
all  eternity.  It  makes  for  stability. 
Such  a  union  is  not  easily  severed.  It 
is  a  sacred  covenant  which  cannot  be 
broken  except  by  sin  and  wrongdoing. 

There  is  an  old  proverb  that  reads: 
".  .  .  thou  shalt  deliver  him  the  pledge 
again  when  the  sun  goeth  down.  .  .  ." 
(Deut.  24:13.)  In  modern  language  it 
means:  Keep  your  promises  and  hold 
sacred  your  covenants. 

The  task  before  us  is  to  safeguard 
the  moral  and  spiritual  agencies  re- 
quired to  preserve  a  healthy  and  God- 
inspired  civilization. 

The  rock-foundation  of  such  a  civili- 
zation is  a  firm  faith  in  the  true  and 
living  God.  Without  such  faith  the 
soul  has  no  anchorage  and  life  has 
no  purpose. 

The  unbeliever  has  no  program, 

He  sees  no  future,  he  prepares  for 
none; 

He  does  not  hear  the  voice  of  the 
prophets, 

He  has  not  looked  beneath  the  crust 
of  things, 

He  flounders  and  stumbles, 

He  lives  in  a  vacuum; 

He  has  no  road  to  the  future 

And  no  rewards  for  right  living. 

He  is  negative,  doubtful,  and  un- 
progressive.  To  him  death  is  the  end, 
and  all  hope  is  gone. 

Avoid  pitfalls  of  skepticism 

To  avoid  the  pitfalls  of  skepticism, 
our  faith  must  be  nourished  and  fos- 
tered by  prayerful  investigation,  dili- 
gent research,  and  scriptural  study,  for 
God's  plan  of  regeneration  must  be 
known  to  his  children.  Men  cannot  be 
saved  in  ignorance.  The  Church  sup- 


plies the  means  and  facilities  for  our 
growth  and  development.  We  are  liv- 
ing in  a  day  when  our  faith  in  the 
eternal  values  must  be  strengthened. 
We  build  our  own  fortifications  against 
evil. 

The  great  work  which  our  Eternal 
Father  has  founded  is  destined  to  fill 
the  whole  earth.  It  will  not  fail,  and 
no  power,  however  great,  can  stop  its 
progress.  Small  as  it  was  in  the  begin- 
ning, destitute  of  influence  and  worldly 
advantages,  it  is  a  power  that  will  con- 
tinue to  grow  and  increase.  It  will  go 
forward  through  the  power  that  is  in 
it. 

It  cannot  be  understood  unless  it  be 
"viewed  with  the  eye  of  faith,"  for 
it  is  the  product  of  faith.  In  other 
words,  the  person  or  persons  who  seek 
to  understand  it  must  have  some 
knowledge  of  the  power  that  founded 
it,  the  power  that  sustains  it,  and  the 
power  that  goes  with  it  in  its  opera- 
tions in  the  world. 

He  will  never  forsake  you 

The  Lord  will  never  forsake  his 
servants  who  stand  at  the  head  of  his 
Church  in  any  hour  of  extremity,  when 
even  strong  men  are  tested  and  tried 
and  when  calamities  and  upheavals 
are  threatening  the  stability  and  wis- 
dom of  men  and  nations. 

Faith  in  God,  in  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  and  in  the  words  of  the 
prophets,  living  and  dead,  is  more 
than  a  passive  belief.  It  is  the  motive 
power  in  men's  lives. 

A  man  of  faith  makes  decisions 
every  day  because  of  that  faith;  he 
knows  where  he  is  going;  he  rejects  the 
unproven  sophistries  of  the  world;  he 
can  withstand  the  infidelity,  the  cyni- 
cism, the  ridicule,  and  the  groundless 
arguments  of  those  who  live  without 
responsibility  to  God  and  without  a 
program  to  guide  them  through  the 
journey  of  life. 

Those  who  deny  God  and  his  mani- 
festations are  a  multitude  in  our  day. 
They  proceed  without  guide  or  com- 
pass. Their  aims  and  ambitions  are 
centered  in  the  things  of  earth,  and 
their  conception  of  right  and  wrong  is 
blurred. 


78  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

The  mission  of  the  Church 

Our  mission  as  a  Church  is  to  teach 
the  unbelievers  and  the  uninformed  the 
message  of  faith  as  it  pertains  to  the 
gospel  and  the  divine  callings  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  Joseph  Smith. 

There  is  no  other  way,  and  the 
Church  feels  keenly  its  responsibility 
in  this  respect. 

As  a  boy  I  remember  attending 
church  in  a  modest  meetinghouse  built 
by  the  early  settlers  of  Cache  Valley. 
My  memory  of  that  old  chapel  is  very 
dim,  but  I  recall  the  design  painted 
on  the  wall  behind  the  stand.  On  it 
were  three  messages. 

In  bold  lettering  on  the  top  were  the 
words:  "Holiness  to  the  Lord."  It  sug- 
gested worship.  Below  this  expression 
of  faith  was  another  one  which  read: 
"Truth  will  prevail."  Still  further 
down  and  near  the  bottom  were  the 
words:  "Truth  crushed  to  earth  will 
rise  again."  To  me  as  a  boy  it  meant 
one  thing,  the  restored  gospel  of 
Christ.  Truth  was  synonymous  with 
Mormonism  so  called,  and  a  revealed 
truth. 

The  power  of  faithfulness 

I  think,  generally  speaking,  it  was 
the  opinion  of  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  met  there.  They  were  solid  and 
sound  in  their  beliefs.  They  were  now 
free  to  worship  God  in  their  own  way. 
Their  chief  concern  was  the  success  of 
their  settlements  made  ".  .  .  far  away 
in  the  West.  .  .  ."  ("Come,  Come,  ye 
Saints,"  Hymns,  13.)  As  I  read  their 
history  and  review  their  achievements, 
I  conclude  they  were  not  mistaken  nor 
led  astray  by  selfish  leaders.  They  had 


Second  Day 

found  the  truth — the  truth  which,  as 
Jesus  taught,  would  make  them  free. 

They  read  the  Bible,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and 
modern  revelations.  The  contents  of 
these  books  were  facts,  not  opinions. 
The  prophets  did  not  speculate.  They 
spoke  as  one  who  knows.  There  are  no 
books  so  positive  and  forthright  as  the 
scriptures,  modern  and  ancient.  The 
prophets  did  not  support  their  mes- 
sages by  argument.  These  messages 
were  self-evident. 

Most  of  the  pioneers  who  came  to  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains  are  now  gone. 
They  had  faced  relentless  opposition 
and  severe  persecution,  but  here  they 
were  in  their  Zion,  worshipping  the 
true  and  living  God.  It  was  all  in  ful- 
fillment of  prophecy  and  they  were 
happy  and  satisfied.  Their  spirit  was 
unconquerable,  their  faith  never 
flagged,  and  their  perseverance  and 
powers  of  endurance  were  remarkable. 
Their  example  of  devotion  and  stead- 
fastness has  not  been  in  vain.  As  a 
people  we  are  proud  of  their  achieve- 
ments. We  are  equally  proud  of  pres- 
ent accomplishments,  and  we  glory  in 
the  prospects  for  the  future. 

May  God's  kingdom  grow  and  in- 
crease until  the  earth  is  full  of  those 
who  love  the  Lord  their  God,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now 
speak  to  us. 

Brother  McConkie — 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


An  apostle  is  a  special  witness  of 
Christ.  This  morning  we  heard  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  the  senior  apos- 
tle of  God  on  earth,  bear  an  inspired 
and  fervent  testimony  of  the  divine 
sonship  of  our  Lord. 


Sixty  years  an  apostle 

I  think  it  would  be  of  interest  to  the 
conference  to  know  that  it  was  on  April 
9,  1906,  exactly  60  years  ago  today, 
that  President  David  O.  McKay  was 


ELDER  BRUCE 

ordained  an  apostle,  a  special  witness 
of  the  Lord,  a  special  witness  of  him 
who  has  redeemed  us  with  his  blood. 
Since  that  day,  three-score  years  ago, 
this  man  who  is  now  God's  prophet  on 
earth  has  stood  as  a  light  and  a  pillar 
of  spiritual  strength  to  the  Church  and 
to  the  world. 

With  all  of  you  I  rejoice  and  thank 
God  for  the  ministry  of  that  man  who 
is  the  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who  is  the 
presiding  high  priest  of  God  on  earth, 
who  in  literal  reality  is  an  apostle,  a 
prophet,  a  man  of  God,  a  man  whom 
the  Lord  loves. 

An  apostle  fifty-six  years 

In  this  connection  may  I  also  note 
that  it  was  on  April  7,  1910,  fifty-six 
years  ago,  that  President  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  also  an  oracle  of  God,  was 
ordained  to  the  holy  apostleship  to 
stand  with  President  McKay  in  direct- 
ing the  affairs  of  God's  kingdom  on 
earth. 

Testify 

That  Jesus,  of  whom  President 
McKay  testified  this  morning,  issued 
this  invitation,  "Come  unto  me.  .  .  . 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn 
of  me  "  (Matt.  11:28-29.) 

He  also  said,  ".  .  .  this  is  life  eternal, 
that  they  might  know  thee  the  only 
true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou 
hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

To  know  God  in  that  full  sense 
which  will  enable  us  to  gain  eternal 
salvation  means  that  we  must  know 
what  he  knows,  enjoy  what  he  enjoys, 
experience  what  he  experiences.  In  New 
Testament  language,  we  must  "be  like 
him."  (1  John  3:2.) 

But  before  we  can  become  like  him, 
we  must  obey  those  laws  that  will 
enable  us  to  acquire  the  character, 
perfections,  and  attributes  that  he 
possesses. 

And  before  we  can  obey  these  laws, 
we  must  learn  what  they  are;  we  must 
learn  of  Christ  and  his  gospel.  We 
must  learn  "that  salvation  was,  and 
is,  and  is  to  come,  in  and  through  the 
atoning  blood  of  Christ,  the  Lord 
Omnipotent."    (Mosiah    3:18.)  We 


R.  McCONKIE  79 

must  learn  that  baptism  under  the 
hands  of  a  legal  administrator  is  es- 
sential to  salvation  and  that  after 
baptism  we  must  keep  the  command- 
ments and  "press  forward  with  a  stead- 
fastness in  Christ,  having  a  perfect 
brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God 
and  of  all  men."  (2  Ne.  31:20.) 

Our  revelation  says:  "The  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence,  or,  in  other  words, 
light  and  truth."  (D&C  93:36.) 

Knowledge  saves 

Joseph  Smith  taught  that  "a  man  is 
saved  no  faster  than  he  gets  knowl- 
edge" of  God  and  his  saving  truths 
(Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  p.  217)  and  that  "it  is  impos- 
sible for  a  man  to  be  saved  in  igno- 
rance" of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  laws 
of  his  gospel.  (D&C  131:6.) 

We  believe  in  gospel  scholarship. 
We  think  that  devout  men  every- 
where, in  and  out  of  the  Church, 
should  seek  spiritual  truth,  should 
come  to  know  God,  should  learn  his 
laws,  and  should  strive  to  live  in 
harmony  with  them.  There  are  no 
truths  as  important  as  those  that  per- 
tain to  God  and  his  gospel,  to  the  pure 
religion  that  he  has  revealed,  to  the 
terms  and  conditions  whereby  we  may 
gain  an  inheritance  with  him  in  his 
kingdom. 

Thus  we  find  Deity  commanding: 

"Search  these  commandments.  .  .  ." 
(D&C  1:37.) 

".  .  .  study  my  word  which  hath 
gone  forth  among  the  children  of 
men  "  (D&C  11:22.) 

".  .  .  teach  the  principles  of  my  gos- 
pel, which  are  in  the  Bible  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  which  is  the 
fulness  of  my  gospel."  (D&C  42:12.) 

Thus  we  find  Jesus  saying: 

"Search  the  prophets.  .  .  ."  (3  Ne. 
23:5.) 

"Search  the  scriptures;  for  .  .  .  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  me."  (John 
5:39.) 

"Yea,  a  commandment  I  give  unto 
you  that  ye  search  these  things  dili- 
gently "  (3  Ne.  23:1.) 

Christ  is  the  great  exemplar,  the 
prototype  of  perfection  and  salvation: 
".  .  .  he  said  unto  the  children  of  men: 
Follow  thou  me  "  (2  Ne.  31:10.) 


80  GENERAL  O 

Saturday,  April  9 

Also:  ".  .  .  what  manner  of  men 
ought  ye  to  be?  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
even  as  I  am."  (3  Ne.  27:27.) 

I  know  of  no  better  way  to  respond 
to  Jesus'  invitation,  "learn  of  me" 
(Matt.  10:29),  than  to  study  the  scrip- 
tures with  a  prayerful  heart. 

I  know  of  no  better  way  to  heed  his 
counsel,  "follow  thou  me,"  than  to  live 
in  harmony  with  the  truths  recorded 
in  the  scriptures,  for  as  Nephi  asked, 
".  .  .  can  we  follow  Jesus  save  we 
shall  be  willing  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Father?"  (2  Ne.  31:10.) 

Scriptures  show  the  way 

The  Old  Testament  prophets  reveal 
Christ's  laws  and  foretell  his  Messianic 
ministry. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  records 
his  mind  and  will  and  voice  as  he 
speaks  to  men  in  our  day. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  an  American 
witness  of  his  divine  sonship  which  has 
come  forth  "to  the  convincing  of  the 
Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Eternal  God,  manifesting 
himself  unto  all  nations."  (Book  of 
Mormon  title  page.) 

The  New  Testament  contains  the 
witness  of  the  ancient  apostles  that  he 
ministered  among  men  and  set  up  his 
earthly  kingdom  in  the  meridian  of 
time. 

The  Lord's  mortal  ministry 

I  recently  finished,  primarily  for  my 
own  personal  enlightenment,  an  inten- 
sive, prayerful,  and  organized  study  of 
the  four  Gospels — Matthew,  Mark, 
Luke,  and  John — those  inspired  ac- 
counts that  speak  plainly  of  our  Lord's 
mortal  ministry. 

After  concluding  this  study,  I  re- 
corded my  views  and  sentiments  con- 
cerning trie  gospel  accounts  in  these 
words: 

"And  so  endeth  the  gospels — 
"Those  sacred  scriptures  which  tell 

of  the  birth,  ministry,  mission,  atoning 

sacrifice,  resurrection,  and  ascension  of 

the  Son  of  God; 
"Those  revealed  records  which  teach 

with  power  and  conviction  the  eternal 


Second  Day 

truths  which  men  must  believe  to  gain 
salvation  in  God's  kingdom; 

"Those  true  histories  of  the  life  of 
Christ  which  lead  men  to  love  the  Lord 
and  to  keep  his  commandments; 

"Those  sacred  and  solemn  testi- 
monies which  open  the  door  to  the 
receipt  of  peace  in  this  life  and  eternal 
life  in  the  world  to  come. 

"In  this  holy  writ,  in  these  gospel 
accounts,  in  these  testimonies  of  the 
life  of  our  Lord — 

"We  see  Jesus — the  Almighty,  the 
Creator  of  all  things  from  the  begin- 
ning— receiving  a  tabernacle  of  clay  in 
the  womb  of  Mary. 

"We  stand  by  an  Infant  in  a  man- 
ger and  hear  heavenly  voices  hail  his 
birth. 

"We  observe  him  teaching  in  the 
temple  and  confounding  the  worldly 
wise  when  but  twelve  years  of  age. 

"We  watch  him  in  Jordan,  immersed 
under  the  hands  of  John,  while  the 
heavens  open  and  the  personage  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  descends  like  a  dove;  and 
we  hear  the  voice  of  the  Father  speak 
approving  words. 

"We  go  with  him  into  a  wilderness 
place  apart  and  behold  the  devil  come, 
tempting,  enticing,  seeking  to  lead  him 
from  God-directed  paths. 

"We  view  in  wonder  and  amazement 
his  miracles:  He  speaks  and  the  blind 
see;  at  his  touch  the  deaf  hear;  he  com- 
mands and  the  lame  leap,  paralytics 
rise  from  their  beds,  lepers  are 
cleansed,  and  devils  desert  their  ill- 
gotten  abodes. 

"We  rejoice  at  the  miracle  of  sin- 
crippled  souls  being  made  whole,  of 
disciples  who  forsake  all  to  follow  him, 
of  saints  who  are  born  again. 

"We  stand  in  awe  as  the  elements 
obey  his  voice:  He  walks  on  the  water; 
at  his  word  storms  cease;  he  curses  the 
fig  tree  and  it  withers;  water  becomes 
wine  when  he  wills  it;  a  few  small 
fish  and  a  little  bread  feed  thousands 
because  of  his  word. 

"We  sit  with  the  Lord  of  life,  as  a 
man,  in  the  intimacy  of  a  family  cir- 
cle in  Bethany;  we  weep  with  him  at 
Lazarus'  tomb;  we  fast  and  pray  at  his 
side  when  he  communes  with  his 


ELDER  BRUCE 

Father;  we  eat  and  sleep  with  him  and 
walk  with  him  down  the  lanes  and  in 
the  villages  of  Palestine;  we  see  him 
hungry,  thirsty,  weary,  and  marvel  that 
a  God  should  seek  such  mortal 
experiences. 

"We  drink  deeply  of  his  teachings; 
we  hear  parables  such  as  never  man 
spake  before;  we  learn  what  it  means 
to  hear  one  with  authority  announce 
his  Father's  doctrine. 

"We  see  him: 

"In  sorrow — weeping  for  his  friends, 
lamenting   over    doomed  Jerusalem; 

"In  compassion — forgiving  sins,  car- 
ing for  his  mother,  making  men  whole 
spiritually  and  physically; 

"In  anger — cleansing  his  Father's 
house,  blazing  forth  with  righteous  in- 
dignation at  its  desecration; 

"In  triumph — entering  Jerusalem 
amid  shouts  of  hosanna  to  the  Son  of 
David,  transfigured  before  his  disciples 
on  the  mount,  standing  in  resurrected 
glory  on  a  mountain  in  Galilee. 

"We  recline  with  him  in  an  upper 
room,  apart  from  the  world,  and  hear 
some  of  the  greatest  sermons  of  all  time 
as  we  partake  of  the  emblems  of  his 
flesh  and  blood. 

"We  pray  with  him  in  Gethsemane 
and  tremble  under  the  weight  of  the 
burden  he  bore  as  great  drops  of  blood 
come  from  every  pore;  we  bow  our 
heads  in  shame  as  Judas  plants  the 
traitor's  kiss. 

"We  stand  at  his  side  before  Annas 
and  again  before  Caiaphas;  we  go  with 
him  to  Pilate  and  to  Herod  and  back 
to  Pilate;  we  partake  of  the  pain,  feel 
the  insults,  shudder  at  the  mocking, 
and  are  revolted  at  the  gross  injustice 
and  mass  hysteria  which  hurl  him  in- 
escapably toward  the  cross. 

"We  sorrow  with  his  mother  and 
others  at  Golgotha  as  Roman  soldiers 
drive  nails  into  his  hands  and  feet; 
we  shudder  as  the  spear  pierces  his  side, 
and  live  with  him  the  moment  when 
he  voluntarily  gives  up  his  life. 

"We  are  in  the  garden  when  the 
angels  roll  back  the  stone,  when  he 
comes  forth  in  glorious  immortality; 
we  walk  with  him  on  the  Emmaus 
road;  we  kneel  in  the  upper  room,  feel 
the  nail  marks  in  his  hands  and  feet 


R.  McCONKIE  81 

and  thrust  our  hands  into  his  side;  and 
with  Thomas  we  exclaim:  'My  Lord 
and  my  God!' 

"We  walk  to  Bethany  and  there 
behold,  as  angels  attend,  his  ascension 
to  be  with  his  Father;  and  our  joy  is 
full,  for  we  have  seen  God  with  man. 

"We  see  God  in  him — for  we  know 
that  God  was  in  Christ  manifesting 
himself  to  the  world  so  that  all  men 
could  know  those  holy  beings  whom 
to  know  is  eternal  life. 

"And  now  what  shall  we  say  more 
of  Christ?  Whose  Son  is  he?  What 
works  hath  he  wrought?  Who  today 
can  testify  of  these  things? 

"Let  it  now  be  written  once  again — 
and  it  is  the  testimony  of  all  the  proph- 
ets of  all  the  ages — that  he  is  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father,  the  promised  Messiah,  the  Lord 
God  of  Israel,  our  Redeemer  and 
Savior;  that  he  came  into  the  world  to 
manifest  the  Father,  to  reveal  anew  the 
gospel,  to  be  the  great  Exemplar,  to 
work  out  the  infinite  and  eternal 
atonement;  and  that  not  many  days 
hence  he  shall  come  again  to  reign 
personally  upon  the  earth  and  to  save 
and  redeem  those  who  love  and  serve 
him. 

"And  now  let  it  also  be  written,  both 
on  earth  and  in  heaven,  that  this 
disciple,  who  has  prepared  this  work, 
does  himself  also  know  of  the  truth 
of  those  things  of  which  the  prophets 
have  testified.  For  these  things  have 
been  revealed  unto  him  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  God,  and  he  therefore  testi- 
fies that  Jesus  is  Lord  of  all,  the  Son 
of  God,  through  whose  name  salvation 
comes."  (Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Doc- 
trinal New  Testament  Commentary, 
pp.  873-876.) 

This  testimony  I  renew  and  reaffirm 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

President  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

The  congregation  and  choir  will 
now  stand  and  sing,  "Praise  to  the 
Man,"  conducted  by  Ladd  R.  Cropper. 

Following  this,  Elder  Henry  D.  Tay- 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  9  Second  Day 

lor,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 

our  next  speaker.   me  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 

Congregational  Singing:  "Praise  to  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Gordon  B. 

the  Man"  Hinckley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  we  journey  through  life,  requests 
may  come  to  us  from  those  who  have 
been  appointed  to  positions  of  leader- 
ship and  authority  to  perform  some 
labor  or  to  accept  some  responsibility. 
We  may  not  comprehend  nor  under- 
stand the  reason  at  the  time  nor  even 
later  for  such  calls,  but,  with  confi- 
dence in  those  making  the  request,  we 
respond  without  question. 

Prompt  and  willing  obedience 

One  of  the  beautiful  incidents  found 
in  the  scriptures  relates  to  our  first 
parents,  Adam  and  Eve.  After  being 
driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden  they 
began  to  till  the  soil  and  to  have 
dominion  over  the  beasts  of  the  field 
and  to  eat  their  bread  by  the  sweat  of 
their  faces.  They  called  upon  the 
name  of  the  Lord  and  heard  his  voice 
speaking  to  them  from  the  way  to- 
ward the  Garden  of  Eden,  but  they 
did  not  see  him,  as  they  were  now 
shut  out  from  his  presence. 

The  Lord  gave  them  command- 
ments that  they  should  worship  him 
and  should  offer  as  a  sacrifice  unto  him 
the  firstlings  of  their  flocks.  No  ex- 
planation was  given  for  making  such 
offerings,  and  I  suppose  they  wondered 
as  to  the  reasons,  but  without  hesita- 
tion they  were  obedient  unto  the 
directions  of  the  Lord. 

Example:  Adam 

After  many  days  an  angel  appeared 
to  Adam  and  inquired:  "Why  dost 
thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord?" 
Then  came  Adam's  sublime,  beautiful, 
trusting  response  as  he  answered:  "I 
know  not,  save  the  Lord  commanded 
me."  (Moses  5:6.)  Thus  this  noble 
couple  gave  sufficient  reason  for  their 
obedience  to  the   Lord's  command. 


What  a  glorious  example  to  us,  their 
posterity. 

Compliance  to  counsel  without 
knowledge  of  the  reason  therefore  is 
often  referred  to  as  blind  obedience. 
But  obedience  is  not  blind  when  it  is 
based  on  faith — implicit,  trusting  faith. 

Nephi 

Marvelous  deeds  can  be  accom- 
plished through  faith  and  obedience. 
While  in  the  wilderness  the  prophet 
Nephi  was  instructed  by  the  Lord  to 
construct  a  vessel  in  which  to  cross 
the  mighty  waters.  To  his  doubting 
brothers  this  appeared  to  be  an  impos- 
sible task.  But  Nephi  knew  that  it 
could  be  done  and  began  fashioning 
tools  and  accumulating  materials  for 
his  important  assignment.  When  he 
advised  his  brothers  of  his  purpose, 
they  murmured  and  scoffed,  saying: 
"Our  brother  is  a  fool,  for  he  thinketh 
that  he  can  build  a  ship;  yea,  and  he 
also  thinketh  that  he  can  cross  these 
great  waters."  (1  Ne.  17:17.) 

In  spite  of  their  skepticism  and  ridi- 
cule, Nephi  was  moved  by  the  spirit 
of  obedience  and  had  faith  and  confi- 
dence that  the  Lord  would  open  the 
way  for  him  to  carry  out  the  com- 
mandment he  had  received.  Humbly, 
yet  majestic  in  his  trust,  he  proclaimed 
to  his  brothers:  "If  God  had  com- 
manded me  to  do  all  things  I  could 
do  them.  If  he  should  command  me 
that  I  should  say  unto  this  water,  be 
thou  earth,  it  should  be  earth;  and  if 
I  should  say  it,  it  would  be  done." 
(1  Ne.  17:50.) 

Abraham 

Another  soul-stirring  incident  that  is 
recorded  in  holy  writ  teaches  a  force- 
ful lesson  from  which  we  may  profit. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


83 


As  a  devoted  and  loving  father,  Abra- 
ham's heart  must  have  been  heavy 
when  he  was  commanded  to  take  his 
beloved  son,  Isaac,  upon  a  mountain 
and  offer  him  as  a  sacrifice.  Yet  with 
unwavering  faith  and  implicit  trust 
in  the  Lord,  he  responded  to  the 
charge.  He  was  dutifully  obedient. 
Mercifully,  however,  he  was  relieved 
of  the  severe  challenge  the  Lord  had 
imposed  upon  him.  But  he  had  been 
tested  and  tried.  For  his  faithfulness 
and  obedience,  the  Lord  gave  Abra- 
ham this  wonderful  promise:  ".  .  .  in 
thy  seed  shall  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth  be  blessed;  because  thou  hast 
obeyed  my  voice."  (Gen.  22:18.) 

In  those  ancient  days  the  offering 
of  burnt  sacrifices  was  a  subject  that 
was  repeatedly  taught  and  stressed. 
Evidently  there  were  many  discussions 
as  to  which  was  the  more  important 
practice,  sacrifice  or  obedience.  Samuel, 
the  prophet,  asked  Saul,  whom  he  was 
teaching,  the  question:  "Hath  the 
Lord  as  great  delight  in  burnt  offerings 
and  sacrifices,  as  in  obeying  the  voice 
of  the  Lord?"  Then  without  waiting 
for  a  reply,  he  gave  this  inspired  an- 
swer: "Behold,  to  obey  is  better  than 
sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the  fat 
of  rams."  (1  Sam.  15:22.)  How  power- 
ful to  Adam,  Abraham,  Saul,  and  to 
us,  also,  is  this  lesson  concerning  the 
importance  of  obedience. 

Now  what  of  our  own  day?  As  we 
read  the  daily  newspapers,  view  tele- 
vision, and  listen  to  the  radio,  we  are 
acutely  aware  of  the  unrest  that  exists 
in  the  world  today.  Wars,  bloodshed, 
riots,  and  acts  of  lawlessness  are 
characteristic  of  the  times.  They  are 
evidence  of  some  men's  desires  for  un- 
righteous power,  a  lack  of  consideration 
for  the  rights  of  others,  a  disregard  for 
established  laws,  and  a  tendency  to  be 
nonconformists.  The  jails  today  are 
crowded  with  such  individuals.  It  is 
necessary,  as  we  all  know,  for  law- 
making bodies  to  enact  legislation  that 
will  protect  the  rights  of  the  law- 
abiding  majority  against  the  rebellious 
minority. 

But  these  selfish,  self-appointed  non- 
conformists, whose  inspiration  is  de- 
rived from  an  evil  source  rather  than 
a  source  divine,  have  not  learned  to 


appreciate  the  peace  and  joy  that  come 
into  the  soul  through  obeying  the  laws 
of  the  land  and  observing  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord. 

"He  learned  obedience" 

The  Savior,  on  the  other  hand,  sub- 
scribed to  the  principle  of  obedience  to 
divine  law.  In  referring  to  him  the 
Apostle  Paul  observed:  "Though  he 
were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience 
by  the  things  which  he  suffered; 

"And  being  made  perfect,  he  became 
the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto 
all  them  that  obey  him."  (Heb.  5:8-9.) 
Should  we  not  follow  the  Lord's 
example? 

Programs  of  the  Church 

At  the  present  time,  through  inspira- 
tion from  the  Lord,  many  worthwhile 
programs  are  being  given  to  the 
Church.  These  programs  have  the  en- 
dorsement, approval,  and  blessing  of 
the  General  Authorities.  Do  we 
hearken  unto  the  chosen  servants  of 
the  Lord,  who  prepare  these  valuable 
aids  for  us?  Do  we  render  obedience 
to  the  counsel  that  comes  to  them 
through  inspiration  and  revelation 
from  our  Father  in  heaven? 

Well  might  we  as  individuals  and  as 
parents  ask  ourselves  these  questions: 

"In  these  good  and  prosperous  times, 
have  I  accumulated  an  adequate  re- 
serve of  food,  clothing,  and  savings  to 
provide  for  me  and  my  family  in  the 
event  of  illness,  emergency,  or  un- 
employment?" 

"Am  I  living  in  such  a  way  that  my 
life  will  be  an  inspiration  and  an  ex- 
ample to  others?  and  am  I  following 
the  counsel  of  the  prophet  when  he 
declares  that  every  member  should  be 
a  missionary?" 

"Am  I  gathering  my  family  around 
me  each  week  in  a  home  evening  and 
studying  the  gospel?" 

"Have  I  carefully  analyzed  my  fam- 
ily records  and  engaged  in  prayerful 
research  in  order  to  complete  the  his- 
tory of  my  progenitors?" 

Over  the  centuries  the  Lord  has 
given  many  assurances  of  his  desire 
to  pour  out  blessings  upon  the  people, 
but  he  has  made  it  equally  clear  that 


84 

Saturday,  April  9 

blessings  are  predicated  upon  obedi- 
ence and  a  willingness  to  obey  his 
commandments.  Moses  in  his  day 
promised  the  children  of  Israel: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  thou 
shalt  hearken  diligently  unto  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  thy  God,  to  observe  and 
to  do  all  his  commandments  which  I 
command  thee  this  day,  that  the  Lord 
thy  God  will  set  thee  on  high  above 
all  nations  of  the  earth: 

"And  all  these  blessings  shall  come 
on  thee,  and  overtake  thee,  if  thou 
shalt  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  thy  God."  (Deut.  28:1-2.) 

Blessings  for  the  faithful 

And  now  in  the  latter  days  the  Lord 
has  again  made  it  crystal  clear  that 
he  is  willing  to  bless  the  faithful.  That 
is  strongly  evident  in  this  assurance: 
"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C 
82:10.) 

This  harmonizes  with  the  statement 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  declared  he 
had  made  a  rule  in  his  life  and  fol- 
lowed each  day.  It  was  simply  this: 
"When  the  Lord  commands,  do  itl" 
(Documentary  History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  2,  p.  170.) 

Now,  may  I  emphasize  one  more 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

thought?  In  this  year  of  1966  re- 
newed emphasis  is  placed  on  the 
importance  of  the  home  and  the  culti- 
vating of  the  spirit  of  love  therein. 
With  listening  ears  and  responsive 
hearts,  we  should  hearken  to  the  words 
of  our  beloved  prophet,  President 
McKay,  who  has  counseled:  ".  .  .  let  us 
never  lose  sight  of  the  principle  of 
obedience. 

Obedience  is  heaven's  first  law,  and 
it  is  the  law  of  home.  There  can  be 
no  true  happiness  in  the  home  without 
obedience — obedience  obtained,  not 
through  physical  force,  but  through 
the  divine  element  of  love."  (Treasures 
of  Life,  p.  329.) 

That  we  may  be  blessed  with  the 
rich  rewards  that  come  to  the  faithful 
through  observing  the  beautiful  princi- 
ple of  obedience  to  all  that  the  Lord 
commands  us  is  my  humble  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans. 


ELDER  GORDC 

Of  the  Council  of 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ap- 
proach this  responsibility  with  a  prayer 
in  my  heart  that  the  Lord  will  prompt 
me  by  his  Holy  Spirit,  as  I  add  my 
word  of  testimony. 

I  have  on  the  desk  in  my  home  a 
small  metal  box.  It  is  about  12  inches 
square  and  half  as  high.  On  its  face 
are  six  knobs  and  two  dials.  Now  and 
again,  when  I  have  an  hour,  it  be- 
comes my  plaything.  It  is  a  short- 
wave radio.  Turning  the  knobs,  I 
listen  to  London,  Washington,  Tokyo, 
Peking,  Moscow,  Havana,  and  other 
great  capitals  of  the  world. 


f  B.  HINCKLEY 

e  Twelve  Apostles 

Battles  for  the  minds  of  men 

The  voices  I  hear  are  persuasive, 
seductive,  fascinating,  and  confusing. 
Speaking  across  the  earth,  they  are  part 
of  a  mighty  battle  that  is  being  waged 
for  the  minds  of  men.  They  are  aimed 
at  persuasion  in  political  philosophy. 
There  are  voices  of  democracy  compet- 
ing with  voices  of  Communism,  and 
each  is  winning  converts  according  to 
the  discernment  and  the  judgment  of 
listeners. 

The  stakes  are  high,  the  weapons  are 
sophisticated,  the  methods  are  clever. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


85 


Battles  for  the  faith  of  men 

There  is  a  comparable  battle  being 
waged  for  the  faith  of  men,  but  the 
lines  are  not  always  so  clearly  drawn, 
for  even  among  the  forces  of  Chris- 
tianity there  are  those  who  would 
destroy  the  divinity  of  the  Christ  in 
whose  name  they  speak.  They  might 
be  disregarded  if  their  voices  were  not 
so  seductive,  if  their  influence  were  not 
so  far-reaching,  if  their  reasoning 
were  not  so  subtle. 

Tomorrow  is  Easter.  At  sunrise  in 
the  morning  multitudes  will  gather  on 
a  thousand  hills  to  welcome  the  dawn 
of  the  Easter  day  and  to  remind  them- 
selves of  the  story  of  the  Christ,  whose 
resurrection  they  will  commemorate. 
In  language  both  beautiful  and  hope- 
ful, preachers  of  many  faiths  will  re- 
count the  story  of  the  empty  tomb.  To 
them — and  to  you — I  raise  this  ques- 
tion: "Do  you  actually  believe  it?" 

"Do  you  actually  believe?" 

Do  you  actually  believe  that  Jesus 
was  the  Son  of  God,  the  literal  off- 
spring of  the  Father? 

Do  you  believe  that  the  voice  of 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  was  heard 
above  the  waters  of  Jordan  declaring, 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased"?  (Matt.  3:17.) 

Do  you  believe  that  this  same  Jesus 
was  the  worker  of  miracles,  the  healer 
of  the  sick,  the  restorer  of  the  infirm, 
the  giver  of  life  to  the  dead? 

Do  you  believe  that  following  his 
death  on  Calvary's  hill  and  his  burial 
in  Joseph's  tomb,  he  came  forth  alive 
the  third  day? 

Do  you  actually  believe  that  he  yet 
lives — real,  vital,  and  personal — and 
that  he  will  come  again  as  promised 
by  the  angels  at  his  ascension? 

Do  you  actually  believe  these  things? 
If  you  do,  then  you  are  part  of  a  shrink- 
ing body  of  literalists  who  more  and 
more  are  being  smiled  at  by  philoso- 
phers, who  more  and  more  are  being 
ridiculed  by  certain  educators,  and  who 
more  and  more  are  being  considered 
"out  of  it"  by  a  growing  coterie  of  min- 
isters of  religion  and  influential 
theologians. 


Assassins  of  faith 

I  have  recently  read  a  series  of 
provocative  writings  setting  forth  the 
clever  reasoning  of  American,  British, 
and  European  theologians  to  "de- 
myth,"  as  it  is  called,  the  story  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth.  I  quote  from  a 
capable  Protestant  layman  who  writes: 

"The  most  disruptive  questions  are 
coming  from  theologians  who  ...  are 
questioning  every  old  concept.  They 
even  suggest  that  maybe  the  word 
'God'  should  be  discarded,  since  it  has 
become  meaningless  to  so  many  people. 

"Stripped  of  all  else,  the  question 
the  liberal  theologians  are  asking  is  the 
old  one  that  has  time  and  again 
sundered  the  Christian  church:  Who 
was  Jesus? 

"The  revolutionists  .  .  .  turn  to  the 
Bible  as  a  source  of  truth,  but  their 
Bible  is  an  expurgated  version  with 
embarrassing  references  to  abnormal 
events  edited  out.  'De-mythologized,' 
one  says.  'De-literalized,'  says  another. 

"What  the  new  wave  casts  up  is 
'religionless'  Christianity;  a  faith 
grounded  on  a  philosophic  system,  in- 
stead of  being  suspended  precariously 
from  old  myths."  (Fortune,  December 
1965,  p.  173.) 

So,  in  the  eyes  of  these  intellectuals, 
these  are  myths — the  birth  of  Jesus  as 
the  Son  of  God  of  whom  the  angels 
sang  on  Judea's  plains,  the  worker  of 
miracles  who  healed  the  sick  and 
raised  the  dead,  the  Christ  resurrected 
from  the  grave,  the  ascension  and  the 
promised  return. 

These  modern  theologians  strip  him 
of  his  divinity  and  then  wonder  why 
men  do  not  worship  him. 

These  clever  scholars  have  taken 
from  Jesus  the  mantle  of  godhood  and 
have  left  only  a  man.  They  have  tried 
to  accommodate  him  to  their  own 
narrow  thinking.  They  have  robbed 
him  of  his  divine  sonship  and  taken 
from  the  world  its  rightful  King. 

While  reading  of  this  very  effective 
and  growing  "de-literalization"  process 
and  of  its  evident  effect  on  the  faith 
of  those  who  are  its  victims,  particu- 
larly the  youth  who  are  caught  up  in 
this  sophistry,  the  words  anciently 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  9 

spoken  by  the  prophet  Amos  come 
home  with  new  clarity: 

Causes  of  "famine  in  the  land" 

"Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the 
Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine  in 
the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor  a 
thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the 
words  of  the  Lord: 

"And  they  shall  wander  from  sea  to 
sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the 
east,  they  shall  run  to  and  fro  to  seek 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  not 
find  it. 

"In  that  day  shall  the  fair  virgins 
and  the  young  men  faint  for  thirst. 

".  .  .  even  they  shall  fall,  and  never 
rise  up  again."  (Amos  8:11-14.) 

How  descriptive  those  words  of  many 
of  the  youth  of  our  day,  the  young 
men  and  the  young  women  who  in 
their  hearts  hunger  for  a  faith  that 
will  satisfy,  but  who,  spurning  it  be- 
cause of  the  manner  in  which  it  is 
offered,  "faint  for  thirst"  and  "fall, 
and  never  rise  up  again." 

Spiritual  plenty  in  the 
modern  world 

To  these  I  give  our  solemn  witness 
that  God  is  not  dead,  except  as  he 
is  viewed  with  a  lifeless  interpretation. 

Is  a  belief  in  the  divinity  of  our 
Lord  out  of  date  in  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury? The  great  scientific  age  of  which 
we  are  a  part  does  not  demand  a  denial 
of  the  miracle  that  is  Jesus.  Rather, 
there  was  never  a  time  in  all  the  his- 
tory of  man  that  made  more  believable 
that  which  in  the  past  might  have 
been  regarded  as  supernatural  and  im- 
possible. 

How  can  anyone  today  regard  any- 
thing as  impossible? 

To  those  acquainted  with  the  giant 
strides  of  biological  science,  where 
men  are  beginning  to  peek  into  the 
very  nature  of  life  and  its  creation, 
the  miracle  of  the  birth  of  Jesus  as 
the  Son  of  God  certainly  becomes  more 
plausible,  even  to  the  doubter. 

Further,  it  is  not  difficult  to  be- 
lieve that  he,  possessed  of  knowledge 
commensurate  with  the  task  of  creat- 
ing the  earth,  could  heal  the  sick,  re- 
store the  infirm,  return  the  dead  to 


Second  Day 

life.  It  may  have  been  difficult  to 
believe  these  things  in  medieval  times, 
but  can  one  reasonably  doubt  the  pos- 
sibility of  such  while  witnessing  the 
miracles  of  healing  and  restoration  that 
occur  daily? 

Is  the  ascension  so  impossible  a  thing 
to  comprehend  after  sitting  in  one's 
living  room  and  watching  the  lift-off 
of  Gemini  7  as  it  rose  into  the  heavens 
to  seek  out  with  unerring  accuracy  its 
companion,  Gemini  6,  then  orbiting 
the  earth  at  more  than  17,000  miles  an 
hour? 

Miracles?  I  should  think  so.  This 
is  the  age  of  miracles.  During  my 
brief  lifetime,  I  have  witnessed  more 
of  scientific  advance  than  did  all  of  my 
forebears  together  during  the  previous 
5,000  years. 

With  so  much  of  what  appears 
miraculous  about  me  every  day,  it  is 
easy  to  believe  in  the  miracle  of 
Jesus. 

But  a  witness  of  the  Lord  is  not  ob- 
tained by  observation  of  the  accom- 
plishments of  men.  Such  observation 
makes  reasonable  a  belief  in  his  birth, 
life,  death,  and  resurrection.  But  there 
is  needed  something  more  than  a 
reasonable  belief.  There  is  needed  an 
understanding  of  his  unique  and  in- 
comparable position  as  the  divine 
Redeemer  and  an  enthusiasm  for  him 
and  his  message  as  the  Son  of  God. 

That  understanding  and  that  en- 
thusiasm are  available  to  all  who  will 
pay  the  price.  They  are  not  incom- 
patible with  higher  education,  but  they 
will  not  come  only  of  reading  philoso- 
phy. No,  they  come  of  a  simpler 
process.  The  things  of  God  are  under- 
stood by  the  Spirit  of  God.  (1  Cor. 
2:11.)  So  declares  the  word  of  reve- 
lation. 

Simple  ways  to  the  abundant  life 

The  acquisition  of  understanding 
and  enthusiasm  for  the  Lord  comes 
from  following  simple  rules,  and  in 
conclusion,  I  should  like  to  suggest 
three,  elementary  in  their  concept,  al- 
most trite  in  their  repetition,  but 
fundamental  in  their  application  and 
fruitful  in  their  result.  I  suggest  them 
particularly  to  our  young  people. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


87 


Search  the  scriptures, — they  testify 

The  first  is  to  read — to  read  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  with  the 
demands  of  your  studies  there  is  little 
time  to  read  anything  else.  But  I 
promise  you  that  if  you  will  read  the 
words  of  that  writing  which  we  call 
scripture,  there  will  come  into  your 
heart  an  understanding  and  a  warmth 
that  will  be  pleasing  to  experience. 
"Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  me."  (John 
5:39.)  Read,  for  instance,  the  Gospel 
of  John  from  its  beginning  to  its  end. 
Let  the  Lord  speak  for  himself  to  you, 
and  his  words  will  come  with  a  quiet 
conviction  that  will  make  the  words 
of  his  critics  meaningless.  Read  also 
the  testament  of  the  New  World,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  brought  forth  as  a 
witness  "that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Eternal  God,  manifesting  himself  unto 
all  nations."  (Book  of  Mormon  title 
page.) 

Serve  the  Lord 

The  next  is  to  serve — to  serve  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  Spiritual  strength 
is  like  physical  strength;  it  is  like  the 
muscle  of  my  arm.  It  grows  only  as  it 
is  nourished  and  exercised. 

The  cause  of  Christ  does  not  need 
your  doubts;  it  needs  your  strength 
and  time  and  talents;  and  as  you  exer- 
cise these  in  service,  your  faith  will 
grow  and  your  doubts  will  wane. 

The  Lord  declared:  "He  that  find- 
eth  his  life  shall  lose  it:  and  he  that 
loseth  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find 
it."  (Matt.  10:39.) 

These  words  have  something  more 
than  a  cold  theological  meaning.  They 
are  a  statement  of  a  law  of  life — that 
as  we  lose  ourselves  in  a  great  cause 
we  find  ourselves — and  there  is  no 
greater  cause  than  that  of  the  Master. 

Pray  .  .  .  "ask  and  it  shall  be 
given  you" 

The  third  is  to  pray.  Speak  with 
your  Eternal  Father  in  the  name  of 


his  Beloved  Son.  "Behold,"  he  says, 
"I  stand  at  the  door,  and  knock;  if  any 
man  hear  my  voice,  and  open  the  door, 
I  will  come  in  to  him,  and  will  sup 
with  him,  and  he  with  me."  (Rev. 
3:20.) 

This  is  his  invitation,  and  the  prom- 
ise is  sure.  It  is  unlikely  that  you  will 
hear  voices  from  heaven,  but  there 
will  come  a  heaven-sent  assurance, 
peaceful  and  certain. 

In  that  great  conversation  between 
Jesus  and  Nicodemus,  the  Lord  de- 
clared: "That  which  is  born  of  the 
flesh  is  flesh;  and  that  which  is  born 
of  the  Spirit  is  spirit."  Then  he  went 
on  to  say,  "The  wind  bloweth  where 
it  listeth,  and  thou  hearest  the  sound 
thereof,  but  canst  not  tell  whence  it 
cometh,  and  whither  it  goeth:  so  is 
every  one  that  is  born  of  the  Spirit." 
(John  3:6,  8.) 

I  do  not  hesitate  to  promise  that 
so  it  will  be  with  you.  If  you  will 
read  the  word  of  the  Lord,  if  you 
will  serve  in  his  cause,  if  in  prayer 
you  will  talk  with  him,  your  doubts 
will  leave;  and  shining  through  all  of 
the  confusion  of  philosophy,  so-called 
higher  criticism,  and  negative  theology 
will  come  the  witness  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  that  Jesus  is  in  very  deed  the 
Son  of  God,  born  in  the  flesh,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  resurrected  from 
the  grave,  the  Lord  who  shall  come 
to  reign  as  King  of  kings.  It  is  your 
opportunity  so  to  know.  It  is  your 
obligation  so  to  find  out.  God  bless 
you  so  to  do,  I  pray  as  I  add  my  per- 
sonal witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Gor- 
don B.  Hinckley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 


88 

Saturday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


One  of  the  most  quoted  New  Testa- 
ment texts  is  this  from  John:  "For  God 
so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his 
only  begotten  Son,  that  whosoever 
believeth  in  him  should  not  perish, 
but  have  everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.) 

It  is  comfortingly  familiar — the  love 
of  God  simply  stated — and  what  he 
did  about  his  love  is  the  evidence  of 
it:  He  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  that 
whoso  believeth  in  him  should  have 
everlasting  life. 

Love  is  expressed  by  action 

Suppose  God  had  loved  the  world 
in  a  passive  way?  Suppose  he  hadn't 
sent  his  Son?  Suppose  he  hadn't  given 
us  his  gospel?  Suppose  he  hadn't  set 
out  to  save  mankind  or  redeem  us  from 
death?  Suppose  he  had  let  his  children 
drift  without  plan  or  purpose  or  coun- 
sel or  commandments?  Would  that 
have  been  love? 

The  point  I  hope  to  make,  for  a 
particular  purpose,  is  the  evidence,  the 
proof,  the  test  of  love. 

An  editorial  recently  read  in  a  medi- 
cal magazine  had  an  intriguing  title: 
"Love  Is  a  Verb."  And  from  this  the 
writer  turned  his  attention  to  the  im- 
portance of  doing,  of  proving,  of  per- 
forming. The  proof  of  any  principle 
is  what  it  does,  and  the  proof  of  any 
person  is  what  he  does — how  he  acts, 
what  he  becomes — not  simply  what  he 
says. 

"Love  Is  a  Verb." 

We  might  paraphrase  and  say  that 
service  is  a  verb,  that  life  is  a  verb; 
for  it  is  in  doing,  in  living,  in  learning, 
and  not  just  in  words  that  we  perform 
our  purpose.  No  one  really  proves  him- 
self or  his  principles  in  neutrality  or 
indifference  or  inaction.  No  one  proves 
himself  by  merely  thinking  or  simply 
sitting. 

The  writer  of  the  article  referred  to 
above  said  that  in  some  primitive  lan- 
guages, with  their  fewness  of  words, 
the  description  of  the  movement  of 
game,  for  example,  is  described  simply 


by  one  word:  running.  Perhaps  we 
could  say  much  more  with  fewer  words 
by  simply  indicating  the  action:  living, 
doing.  ".  .  .  when  a  noun  replaces  a 
verb  there  is  a  disadvantage  .  .  ."  be- 
cause a  noun  is  static,  and  life  is 
movement.  Some  people  "assign  an 
intrinsic  value  to  'things'  like  purity 
and  gratitude.  .  .  .  They  take  credit  for 
possessing  nominal  virtues.  Or  they 
punish  themselves  for  having  vices, .  .  . 
[but]  we  communicate  with  others  in 
verbs.  .  .  .  Gratitude  has  not  even  been 
born  until  it  has  been  actually  con- 
veyed in  word  or  deed.  .  .  ." 

The  same  could  be  said  for  sanity, 
said  this  same  physician.  It  "is  not 
structural  but  functional.  It  is  not 
something  one  has  or  is.  It  is  a  measure 
of  what  one  does."  (William  B.  Mc- 
Grath,  M.D.,  in  Medicine  at  Work, 
February  1966.)  If  we  do  sane  things, 
we  are  sane.  If  we  don't  do  sane 
things,  we  are  not  sane. 

Actions  speak  louder  than  words 

Actions  do  speak  louder  than  words. 

As  to  a  young  person  who  was  specu- 
lating upon  whether  or  not  she  loved 
someone,  there  is  the  reminder  that 
love  is  not  simply  a  noun  and  not 
simply  a  sentimental  feeling.  The 
proof  of  love  is  what  one  is  willing  to 
do  for  the  loved  one.  The  proof  of 
love  is  how  one  behaves. 

Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  turned  his  at- 
tention to  this  subject  at  times:  "The 
full  and  essential  nature  of  love  we 
may  not  understand,"  he  said,  "but 
there  are  tests  by  which  it  may  be 
recognized. 

Love  and  truth 

"Love  is  always  founded  in  truth. .  .  . 
Lies  and  deceit,  or  any  other  violation 
of  the  moral  law,  are  proofs  of  love's 
absence.  Love  perishes  in  the  midst 
of  untruth.  .  .  .  Thus,  the  lover  who 
falsifies  to  his  loved  one,  or  offers  her 
any  act  contrary  to  truth,  does  not 
really  love  her. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


89 


Love  does  not  injure 

"Further,  love  does  not  offend  or 
hurt  or  injure  the  loved  one.  By  that 
test  any  human  venture,  past  and  pres- 
ent, may  be  measured  for  its  real 
value.  Cruelty  is  as  absent  from  love 
...  as  truth  is  from  untruth. 

Love  is  a  positive  force 

".  .  .  love  is  a  positive  active  force. 
It  helps  the  loved  one.  If  there  is 
need,  love  tries  to  supply  it.  If  there 
is  weakness,  love  supplants  it  with 
strength.  .  .  .  Love  that  does  not  help 
is  a  faked  or  transient  love. 

Love  gives 

"Good  as  these  tests  are,  there  is  a 
greater  one.  True  love  sacrifices  for 
the  loved  one.  .  .  .  That  is  the  final 
test.  Christ  gave  of  Himself,  gave  His 
life,  for  us,  and  thereby  proclaimed  the 
reality  of  his  love  for  his  mortal  breth- 
ren and  sisters.  The  mother  gives  of 
her  own  flesh  and  blood,  and  jeopar- 
dizes her  very  life,  for  her  child.  In 
family  relationships  there  must  be 
mutual  sacrifices  among  husband,  wife, 
and  children,  else  true  love  is  not 
there."  (Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  An  Un- 
derstandable Religion,  Ch.  8.) 

Love  is  honest 

Thus,  anyone  who  would  induce 
someone  to  do  that  which  it  is  un- 
worthy to  do,  or  to  take  advantage,  or 
rob  someone  of  virtue,  or  embarrass, 
or  hurt,  really  doesn't  love  the  person 
he  professes  to  love.  What  he  feels 
under  such  circumstances  is  something 
less  than  love.  The  proving  is  in  the 
doing. 

Virtues  are  positive  forces 

And  so  it  is  with  all  the  virtues. 
Either  we  live  pure  lives  or  we  don't. 
Either  we  think  pure  thoughts  or  we 
don't.  Purity  isn't  simply  a  noun.  It 
is  a  verb.  It  is  the  living  of  a  certain 
kind  of  life.  It  is  the  thinking  of  cer- 
tain kinds  of  thoughts.  Its  proof  is  in 
keeping  the  commandments. 

Goodness  is  not  theory,  it  is  fact. 

We  may  think  of  tithing  as  a  prin- 
ciple and  discuss  it  and  approve  it,  but 


if  we  are  really  convinced  and  con- 
verted, we  will  pay  our  tithing. 

We  may  think  well  of  the  mission- 
ary system,  but  it  works  only  because 
some  leave  home  and  sacrifice  and 
serve  sincerely — not  merely  because  it 
is  a  good  organization  or  idea. 

We  may  think  and  talk  of  chastity 
as  a  virtue,  but  if  we  are  converted  and 
convinced,  we  will  live  chaste  lives. 

If  we  love  our  children  we  won't 
neglect  them  or  let  them  run  loose.  If 
we  love  our  children  we  won't  leave 
them  ignorant  of  the  law,  or  of  the 
commandments,  or  ignorant  of  how  to 
behave,  or  unacquainted  with  sound 
habits  of  work,  or  ignorant  of  courtesy 
and  acceptable  conduct. 

If  we  love  our  children  we  will  urge 
them  to  prepare  as  fully  as  they  can 
for  life,  persuade  them  to  acquire  all 
the  training  and  education  possible.  If 
we  love  our  children  we  will  keep  as 
close  to  them  as  possible  and  do  our 
utmost  to  keep  them  free  from  sin  and 
from  anything  that  would  clutter  or 
scar  their  lives. 

As  parents  there  is  no  greater  obliga- 
tion that  is  ours — and  neglect  is  not 
the  evidence  of  love.  Part  of  love  is 
doing  our  duty  in  love  and  loyalty, 
"by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by 
gentleness  and  meekness,  and  by  love 
unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowl- 
edge. .  .  ."  (D&C  121:41,  42.) 

Jesus  said:  ".  .  .  lovest  thou  me?  .  .  . 
Feed  my  sheep."  (John  21:16.) 

Elsewhere  it  is  written:  "If  ye  love 
me,  keep  my  commandments."  (John 
14:15.) 

Doers  of  the  Word 

Abstract  qualities  of  character  don't 
mean  much  in  the  abstract.  It  is  how 
we  live,  how  we  serve,  how  we  teach 
our  children,  what  we  do  from  day  to 
day  that  both  indicate  what  we  are 
and  determine  what  we  are;  and  all 
the  theory  and  all  the  speculation,  all 
the  quoting  of  scripture,  all  the  search- 
ing of  the  mysteries,  and  all  the 
splitting  of  hairs,  and  all  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  letter  of  the  law  don't  in 
the  final  and  saving  sense  amount  to 
very  much  unless  we  live  the  gospel, 


90  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

unless  we  keep  the  commandments, 
unless  we  prove  the  principles,  unless 
we  live  lives  of  effectiveness,  sincerity, 
and  service. 

The  best  evidence 

Sometimes  we  hear  someone  say, 
"My  life  is  my  own.  I  am  going  to  do 
with  it  as  I  please."  But  no  one's  life 
is  his  own.  Too  much  of  others  has 
gone  into  the  making  of  all  of  us. 

We  cannot  hurt  ourselves  without 
hurting  others.  A  sorrow,  an  illness, 
a  disgrace,  an  accident,  trouble,  or 
difficulty  of  any  kind — any  loss  to 
loved  ones  is  a  loss  to  family  and 
friends.  We  are  too  much  a  part  of 
one  another  for  this  not  to  be  so. 

If  we  love  our  parents,  wouldn't  the 
evidence  of  it  be  to  do  something  about 
it:  to  be  grateful,  to  help  to  care  for 
them  in  their  need,  to  honor  them  by 
being  honorable,  to  take  them  into  our 
confidence — not  to  worry  them? 

The  best  evidence  of  love  for  par- 
ents would  be  active  evidence  of  kind- 
ness, consideration,  appreciation,  respect 
for  their  teachings  and  counsel. 

The  best  evidence  of  love  of  country 
would  be  not  what  we  say — or  say  we 
feel — but  serving  it,  keeping  the  laws, 
preserving  its  principles. 

The  best  evidence  of  love  for  our 
Father  in  heaven  would  be  living  lives 
of  honor  and  reverence;  not  taking  his 
name  in  vain;  living  useful,  righteous 
lives;  and  keeping  his  commandments. 

As  to  those  who  say  they  love  the 
Church — the  best  evidence  of  that 
love  would  be  serving,  doing,  giving 
of  ourselves,  living  its  standards,  keep- 
ing the  commandments. 

God  help  us  to  be  members  not  of 
record  only,  but  members  who  place 
doing  and  serving  and  living  the  re- 
quirements of  the  gospel  above  our 
comfort  or  convenience. 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  7:21.) 

It  is  important  to  believe;  it  is  im- 
portant to  be;  but  it  is  also  important 
to  do. 


Second  Day 

Conviction  expressed  by  conduct 

Even  the  devil  believes.  (See  Jas. 
2:19.)  "Conviction  is  worthless  unless 
it  is  converted  into  conduct."  (Thomas 
Carlyle.) 

Thank  God  for  the  gospel,  for  the 
personal  and  literal  reality  of  him  who 
made  us  in  his  own  image,  for  his  Son 
our  Savior,  and  for  the  blessed  plan  of 
everlasting  life  with  our  loved  ones. 

Thank  God  for  his  patience,  for  his 
understanding,  for  his  comfort,  for 
his  commandments;  for  it  would  be  a 
disillusioning  life  to  be  running  loose 
without  knowing  what  was  expected 
of  us — or  why.  Thank  God  that  he 
sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  to  show 
us  the  way,  to  redeem  us  from  death,  to 
lead  us  to  everlasting  life. 

With  you  I  offer  gratitude  and  a 
pledge  to  do  my  best  to  demonstrate 
love  for  our  Lord  and  Savior  and 
his  Father  who  gave  us  life  by  living 
the  kind  of  lives  that  they  would  have 
us  live,  and  leave  my  witness  with  you 
of  the  truth  of  that  which  gathers 
us  here  together,  in  the  name  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  been  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 

The  Ogden  Institute  Chorale  will 
now  sing,  "Eternal  Life,"  conducted 
by  Ladd  R.  Cropper. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Henry  E.  Peterson,  President  of 
the  Bountiful  North  Stake,  after  which 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
7  o'clock  this  evening,  when  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  will  be  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle. 

Priesthood  members  only  are  in- 
vited to  be  present.  This  Priesthood 
session  will  not  be  broadcast  publicly. 

In  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  proceedings 
of  this  Priesthood  meeting  will  be  re- 
layed by  closed-circuit  broadcast, 
originating  in  the  Tabernacle,  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  assembled  in  425  separate 
locations  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


91 


The  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  by  many  radio  and  televi- 
sion stations  in  the  West;  and  short- 
waved  in  English  over  Station  WRUL 
to  Europe,  South  America,  Central 
America,  Africa,  and  parts  of  Asia. 

This  morning's  and  tomorrow 
morning's  sessions  will  be  carried  by 
direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle  over 
oceanic  cables  to  a  large  number  of 
Saints  assembled  in  chapels  through- 
out Great  Britain  and  Germany. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  Tabernacle 
Choir  broadcast  tomorrow  morning 
will  be  from  9:35  to  10:00  a.m.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must 


be  in  their  seats  no  later  than  9.15 
a.m. 

We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  the  Ogden  LDS  Institute  Chorale 
for  the  contribution  they  have  made  to 
our  Conference  this  afternoon.  They 
will  now  sing,  "Eternal  Life,"  con- 
ducted by  Ladd  R.  Cropper,  and  the 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Henry  E.  Peterson. 


The  Chorale  sang:  "Eternal  Life." 

Elder  Henry  E.  Peterson,  president 
of  Bountiful  North  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 


SATURDAY  EVENING 
GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  at  7:00  p.m., 
Saturday,  April  9,  1966. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was 
present  and  presided.  At  his  request 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Coun- 
sellor in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  meeting. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session 
was  furnished  by  the  Mormonaires 
from  Boise,  Idaho,  C.  Winston  Hansen, 
conductor.  Elder  Robert  Cundick  was 
at  the  organ  console. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Those  of  you  who  are  in  the  Taber- 
nacle are  aware  that  we  are  favored 
with  the  presence  of  President  David 
O.  McKay  tonight,  but  for  the  bene- 
fit of  those  who  are  listening  in  in  the 
hundreds  of  chapels  and  other  church 
buildings  may  I  announce  that  Presi- 
dent McKay  is  here,  is  presiding  at 
this  session,  and  has  asked  that  I 
conduct. 

This  is  a  special  Priesthood  session 
of  the  136th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church.  It  may  interest  you  to  know 
that  these  services  are  being  relayed 
by  closed  circuit  to  members  of  the 
priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall   and   approximately  425  other 


separate  gatherings  from  coast  to  coast 
and  in  Canada.  It  is  estimated  that 
approximately  75,000  will  participate 
in  this  meeting  by  direct  wire.  This 
does  not  include  the  10,000  gathered 
in  this  building  and  in  the  Assembly 
Hall. 

The  singing  at  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Mormonaires  from 
Boise,  Idaho,  with  C.  Winston  Hansen 
as  conductor  and  Robert  Cundick  at 
the  organ.  We  appreciate  very  much 
the  visit  of  these  brethren  from  Boise. 
We  have  heard  them  before,  and  we 
know  what  a  great  contribution  they 
will  make. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
chorus  singing  a  Latter-day  hymn 
medley,  with  Jay  Powells  as  socialist 
(laughter).  I  hope  Brother  Powells  will 
not  start  an  action  for  slander, 
(laughter) 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Iris  Bell 
Morgan,    president   of    the  Granger 
Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 
The  Chorus: 


The  Boise  Mormonaires  sang  a 
Latter-day  Saint  hymn  medley. 

Elder  Iris  Bell  Morgan,  president  of 
Granger  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  9 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  Morgan  who  has  just  of- 
fered the  invocation  is  from  the  Gran- 
ger Stake. 

The  Boise  Mormonaires  will  now 
favor  us  with  "Listen  to  the  Lambs," 
with  Darrell  Anderson  as  soloist,  C. 
Winston  Hansen  directing. 


Second  Day 

After  the  singing,  Bishop  John  H. 
Vandenberg  will  be  our  first  speaker, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

Bishop  Vandenberg. 

Selection  by  the  Mormonaires  "Lis- 
ten to  the  Lambs." 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


Commitment  to  high  goals 

Recently  a  statement  in  a  magazine 
caught  my  attention.  It  said:  "If  you 
don't  know  where  you  are  going,  it 
doesn't  matter  which  road  you  take." 
As  I  have  pondered  this  expression,  I 
see  it  as  a  timely  warning  to  those  of 
today's  youth  who  throw  all  caution 
to  the  wind  with  a  "don't  care"  atti- 
tude and  to  those  who  have  lost  all 
sense  of  direction,  such  as  the  giddy 
nonconformist  who  looks  upon  basic 
moral  values  with  indifference  and 
contempt.  Young  people,  and  particu- 
larly bearers  of  the  priesthood  of  God, 
need  to  commit  themselves  to  worth- 
while goals  and  high  moral  values. 
Failure  to  do  so  breeds  discontent,  frus- 
trations, and  attitudes  of  rebellion. 
Conversely,  however,  a  desired  goal 
generates  courage  and  definite  purpose 
in  the  day-to-day  affairs  of  life. 

An  article  in  a  national  magazine 
entitled  "The  Twisted  Age"  (Look, 
Dec.  15,  1964)  refers  to  the  degrading 
influences  that  leave  youth  in  a  state 
of  frustration,  discontent,  and  confu- 
sion. The  subtle,  persuasive  methods 
of  some  of  the  modern  advertising  used 
to  attract  attention  seem  to  make  for- 
bidden things  glamorous,  exciting,  and 
acceptable.  Through  such  means, 
some  are  duped  into  tolerating  and 
then  embracing  sins  that  cause  emo- 
tional problems  and  ultimately  de- 
struction of  the  soul. 

The  frustrations,  anxieties,  and  re- 
bellions that  are  rampant  today  could 
be  measurably  reduced  if  young  people 
could  be  encouraged  to  set  high  ideals. 
This  would  help  fix  in  their  minds  an 


objective  to  achieve.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  provides  such  goals  and 
gives  purpose  to  life.  It  is  a  process 
requiring  self-discipline. 

The  Savior's  injunction  in  his  Ser- 
mon on  the  Mount  was:  "Enter  ye  in 
at  the  strait  gate.  .  .  ."  And  he  tells 
why:  "Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and 
narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto 
life.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  7:13-14.)  It  is  a 
program  for  knowing  where  to  go  for 
maximum  benefits.  It  is  a  road  of 
discipline  to  follow,  beamed  on  a  goal. 
In  contrast,  he  warned  about  the  op- 
posite road — the  wide,  undisciplined, 
easy,  nonconforming  way.  He  said: 
".  .  .  for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad  is 
the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruc- 
tion "  (Matt.  7:13.) 

A  span  of  mortality 

Every  individual  is  granted  a  span 
of  mortality,  as  Carlyle  expressed  so 
simply:  "One  life,  a  little  gleam  of 
time  between  two  eternities,  no  second 
chance  for  us  for  evermore."  There  is 
granted  to  most  individuals  the  intelli- 
gence and  power  to  reason  for  them- 
selves. The  tragedy  is  that  so  many 
succumb  to  the  ridiculous  mediocre 
reasoning  of  others,  which  often  serves 
only  to  waste  time  and  distort  truth. 
We  need  to  live  every  moment  con- 
scious that  our  actions  will  be 
compatible  with  the  all-important  goal 
of  eternal  life  and  that  every  moment, 
hour,  and  day  is  important. 

Futures  of  brightness 

Most  of  us  know  of  some  people  who 
showed  promise  of  great  attainment 


BISHOP  JOHN  H. 

but  who  lived  their  lives  so  they  never 
quite  measured  up  to  that  promise. 
Such  a  person  was  Solomon,  who  was 
blessed  with  numerous  privileges,  op- 
portunities, and  great  wisdom.  Yet  he 
strayed  into  a  path  of  foolishness.  Solo- 
mon asked  God  for  wisdom  and  was 
blessed  so  that  there  was  not  a  king 
like  him  in  all  his  days.  (1  Kings 
3:13.)  His  philosophy  indicates  he 
had  an  understanding  of  life  and  the 
experiences  that  were  connected  with 
it.  He  knew  of  life's  purpose  and  its 
eternal  nature.  In  fact,  few  men  have 
had  the  experience  he  had.  Even  the 
Lord  appeared  to  him  and  set  him  a 
goal:  the  strait  and  narrow  way  that 
leadeth  to  life.  (Matt.  7:14.) 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  him,  I  have 
heard  thy  prayer.  .  .  . 

"I  have  hallowed  this  house  [the 
great  temple],  which  thou  hast  built, 
to  put  my  name  there  for  ever;  and 
mine  eyes  and  mine  heart  shall  be 
there  perpetually. 

"And  if  thou  wilt  walk  before  me 
...  in  integrity  of  heart,  and  in  up- 
rightness, to  do  .  .  .  all  that  I  have 
commanded  thee,  and  .  .  .  keep  my 
statutes  and  .  .  .  judgments: 

"Then  I  will  establish  the  throne  of 
thy  kingdom  upon  Israel  for  ever.  .  .  . 
There  shall  not  fail  thee  a  man  upon 
the  throne  of  Israel."  (1  Kings  9:3-5.) 

Choice  of  direction:  Solomon 

The  alternative  was  the  wide  gate 
and  the  broad  way  of  destruction. 

"But  if  ye  shall  at  all  turn  from  fol- 
lowing me,  ye  or  your  children,  and 
will  not  keep  my  commandments  and 
my  statutes  . .  .  ,  but  go  and  serve  other 
gods,  and  worship  them: 

"Then  will  I  cut  off  Israel  out  of 
the  land  which  I  have  given  them:  and 
this  house  .  .  .  will  I  cast  out  of  my 
sight;  and  Israel  shall  be  a  proverb 
and  a  byword  among  all  people."  (1 
Kings  9:6-7.) 

Solomon  had  his  choice  of  roads, 
and  he  turned  from  God.  He  bar- 
tered his  long-range  goal  for  Israel  for 
the  worship  of  other  gods  and  day-by- 
day  gratifications.  He  failed  himself 
and  failed  Israel. 


VANDENBERG  93 
Moses 

In  contrast,  Moses  entered  the  strait 
gate  and  received  his  errand  from  the 
Lord;  and  even  though  there  were  times 
when  he  did  not  know  what  the  next 
approach  might  be,  he  knew  the  ob- 
jective, which  was  to  lead  the  Israelites 
out  of  bondage  from  Egypt.  Because 
he  knew  the  goal,  he  set  his  course. 
With  tenacity  of  purpose  he  went  back 
to  Pharaoh  the  second  time,  the  third 
time,  the  fourth,  the  fifth,  the  sixth- 
yes,  even  the  seventh.  Each  visit  cul- 
minated in  dramatic  experiences,  but 
Moses  was  never  dissuaded. 

I  cannot  imagine  a  more  "twisted 
age"  than  that  of  the  time  of  Moses — 
a  people  in  bondage  under  the  control 
of  the  pagan  Egyptians.  The  influences 
and  temptations  that  surrounded  him 
could  have  induced  discouragement 
and  abandonment  of  the  goal  in  a 
weaker  person.  But  Moses  had  set  his 
objective.  His  life  was  in  tune  with  his 
Lord,  who  had  appeared  to  him.  For 
him  there  was  no  failure. 

A  friend 

Recently,  the  wife  (Mrs.  Lelia  Hig- 
ginson)  of  a  very  dear  friend  of  mine 
passed  away  in  Denver,  Colorado.  She 
was  one  of  the  most  devoted  Latter-day 
Saints  with  whom  I  have  ever  been 
privileged  to  associate.  There  is  no 
question  in  my  mind  that  her  loyalty 
to  our  Father  in  heaven  germinated 
early  in  her  youth  as  she  committed 
herself  to  short-  and  long-range  goals 
of  righteousness. 

One  evening  before  the  funeral 
service,  her  husband,  their  six  children, 
grandmother  and  grandfather,  and  two 
close  friends  gathered  in  their  home. 
The  father  called  the  family  together 
and  brought  out  a  book — a  book  she 
had  kept,  which  contained  her  life 
story  as  she  herself  had  written  it. 
Actually,  there  were  two  episodes  to 
the  story  written  at  different  periods 
in  her  life.  It  was  the  first  time  that 
some  of  the  children  had  heard  parts 
of  it,  and  I  am  sure  it  gave  them  a 
new  and  deeper  insight  into  the  finer 
qualities  of  their  mother. 

The  family  has  given  me  permission 


94 

Saturday,  April  9 

to  share  some  of  this  information  with 
you.  Quoting  from  her  own  writing: 

"I  know  that  I  lived  in  the  spirit 
world  together  with  all  the  hosts  of 
heaven  and  with  God  before  I  came  to 
this  earth.  I  feel  that  I  am  a  choice 
spirit  to  have  been  chosen  to  wait  6,000 
years  to  come  to  earth  at  this  time  in 
these  the  last  days  when  the  world  is 
so  highly  cultured  and  the  second 
coming  of  the  Savior  is  so  near  at  hand. 

"I  want  to  be  ready  to  help  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God  on  this  earth.  I 
believe  I  was  put  here  to  be  tried  and 
tested  through  the  weaknesses  of  the 
flesh  and  through  the  free  agency  I 
have,  to  live  as  I  will.  I  hope  I  can 
prove  true  to  the  test  so  that  I  will  be 
ready  to  go  on  in  the  next  world  with 
my  loved  ones  in  the  plan  of  eternal 
progression.  I  know  that  I  am  indeed 
blessed  to  be  born  of  noble  parents  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints'  belief,  because  I  think  that 
there  is  more  responsibility  resting  on 
us  now  in  temple  work  than  has  ever 
been  placed  on  the  people  before. 

"The  goal  I  am  seeking  through  this 
life  is  that  of  being  permitted  to  be  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  in  the  world  after 
this,  and  I  shall  never  quit  working  for 
my  goal.  I  have  attended  church  since 
I  was  old  enough  to  go.  I  learned  many 
of  the  Church's  beautiful  songs.  My 
grandmother  was  the  music  director, 
and  I  love  especially  the  songs  she 
loved.  I  like  Mutual  and  the  social 
instruction  given  in  the  mixed  chorus, 
drama,  public  speaking,  and  dancing. 
I  am  interested  in  all  of  these  activities 
and  would  like  to  excel  in  each.  Music, 
however,  means  more  to  me  than  the 
rest." 

Now,  before  I  read  further,  I  want 
to  let  you  know  that  these  thoughts 
were  written  by  her  over  30  years  ago, 
when  she  was  a  young  girl. 

"I  want  to  be  married  to  a  clean 
Mormon  boy  who  can  take  me  to  the 
temple,  and  I  want  to  be  worthy  of 
him.  I  hope  that  I  can  pass  on  to  my 
posterity  a  clean,  perfect  mind  and 
body,  my  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and 
a  desire  to  live  to  attain  the  celestial 
kingdom.  I  hope  that  I  will  be  per- 
mitted to  live  with  my  loved  ones  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  next  world  and  that  I  may  be  the 
means  of  helping  all  I  can  of  those 
around  me,  and  those  who  have  gone 
before,  to  get  their  temple  work  done. 
I  want  to  be  the  means  of  bringing 
new  souls  into  the  world  and  to  be 
able  to  be  a  worthy  and  good  mother, 
to  help  provide  a  home  for  them  that 
they  may  enjoy  the  same  blessings  that 
I  enjoy  in  my  home." 

Importance  of  setting  high  goals 

To  look  back  over  the  successful  life 
that  this  good  sister  lived,  it  is  easy 
to  see  that  she  had  been  most  successful 
in  reaching  the  goals.  She  never 
digressed  from  the  commitment  she  had 
made  to  herself  over  30  years  ago.  I 
feel  that  goal-setting  is  absolutely 
necessary  for  happy  living.  But  the  goal 
is  only  part  of  the  desired  procedures. 
We  need  to  know  which  roads  to  take 
to  reach  the  goal.  In  many  cases  we 
set  far-reaching  goals  but  neglect  the 
short-range  ones.  With  such  short- 
range  plans,  we  need  self-discipline  in 
our  actions — study  when  it  is  time  to 
study,  sleep  when  it  is  time  to  sleep, 
read  when  it  is  time  to  read,  and  so  on 
— not  permitting  an  undesirable  over- 
lap, but  getting  our  full  measure  of 
rewards  and  blessings  from  the  time  we 
invest  in  a  particular  activity.  In  this 
respect,  I  feel  that  Aaronic  Priesthood 
bearers  especially  need  to  learn  more 
fully  their  responsibility  for  leadership. 
They  need  to  commit  themselves  more 
to  obeying  the  proven  principles  of  the 
gospel.  They  need  to  commit  them- 
selves verbally  to  their  friends  and 
families,  telling  them  of  their  desire  to 
live  righteously,  so  that  their  friends 
and  families  can  help  and  encourage 
them  and  observe  their  progress.  They 
need  to  make  commitments  with  them- 
selves by  writing  down  their  goals  and 
keeping  a  record  of  the  fulfillment  of 
their  achievements. 

The  entering  of  the  strait  gate  re- 
quires the  positive  approach — a  leader- 
ship approach — an  approach  of  which 
all  are  capable.  It  is,  in  fact,  the  ideal 
life.  The  steps  are  fewer — no  turning 
back,  no  sidestepping,  only  forward 
where  the  air  is  cleaner,  purer,  more 
wholesome;  the  attitude  happier;  and 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


95 


the  achievement  grander.  There  is  no 
frustration  or  confusion  when  one  is  on 
the  proper  road  to  eternal  life. 

Truly,  "If  you  don't  know  where  you 
are  going,  it  doesn't  matter  which  road 


you  take,"  for  you  will  get  nowhere. 
But  if  we  will  "enter  ...  in  at  the 
strait  gate,"  we  will  obtain  life  eternal. 
I  bear  you  this  testimony  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


What  I  am  going  to  give  you  now  is 
a  statement  I  have  prepared  in  answer 
to  the  question,  "Is  Socialism  the 
United  Order?"  Some  of  you  may 
have  already  heard  it.  This  is  the 
first  time  I  have  ever  attempted  to  give 
a  talk  a  second  time.  My  excuse  is 
that  the  Brethren  have  asked  me  to  give 
this  talk  here  tonight. 

I  suppose  the  best  way  to  start  a 
comparison  of  socialism  and  the 
United  Order  is  with  a  definition  of 
the  terms.  Webster  defines  socialism 
as: 

Socialism  defined 

"A  political  and  economic  theory  of 
social  organization  based  on  collective 
or  governmental  ownership  and  demo- 
cratic management  of  the  essential 
means  for  the  production  and  distri- 
bution of  goods;  also,  a  policy  or 
practice  based  on  this  theory."  (Web- 
ster's New  International  Dictionary, 
2nd  ed.  unabridged,  1951.) 

George  Bernard  Shaw,  the  noted 
Fabian  Socialist,  said  that: 

"Socialism,  reduced  to  its  simplest 
legal  and  practical  expression,  means 
the  complete  discarding  of  the  institu- 
tion of  private  property  by  transform- 
ing it  into  public  property  and  the 
division  of  the  resultant  income 
equally  and  indiscriminately  among 
the  entire  population."  (Encyclopedia 
Britannica,  1946  ed.,  Vol.  20,  p.  895.) 

George  Douglas  Howard  Cole,  M.A., 
noted  author  and  university  reader  in 
economics  at  Oxford,  who  treats  social- 
ism for  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica, 
says  that  because  of  the  shifting  sense 
in  which  the  word  has  been  used,  "a 
short  and  comprehensive  definition  is 
impossible.  We  can  only  say,"  he 
concludes,  "that  Socialism  is  essentially 
a  doctrine  and  a  movement  aiming  at 


the  collective  organization  of  the 
community  in  the  interest  of  the  mass 
of  the  people  by  means  of  the  common 
ownership  and  collective  control  of 
the  means  of  production  and  ex- 
change." (Ibid.,  p.  888.) 

Socialism  arose  "out  of  the  economic 
division  in  society."  During  the  nine- 
teenth century  its  growth  was  acceler- 
ated as  a  protest  against  "the  appalling 
conditions  prevailing  in  the  workshops 
and  factories  and  the  unchristian 
spirit  of  the  spreading  industrial 
system." 

Communism,  starting  point 

The  "Communist  Manifesto"  drafted 
by  Karl  Marx  and  Friedrich  Engels  for 
the  Communist  League  in  1848  is 
generally  regarded  as  the  starting  point 
of  modern  socialism.  (Ibid.,  p.  890.) 

The  distinction  between  socialism,  as 
represented  by  the  various  Socialist  and 
Labour  parties  of  Europe  and  the  New 
World,  and  Communism,  as  repre- 
sented by  the  Russians,  is  one  of  tactics 
and  strategy  rather  than  of  objective. 
Communism  is  indeed  only  socialism 
pursued  by  revolutionary  means  and 
making  its  revolutionary  method  a 
canon  of  faith.  Communists,  like 
other  socialists,  (1)  believe  in  the  col- 
lective control  and  ownership  of  the 
vital  means  of  production  and  (2) 
seek  to  achieve  through  state  action  the 
coordinated  control  of  the  economic 
forces  of  society.  They  (the  Com- 
munists) differ  from  other  socialists  in 
believing  that  this  control  can  be  se- 
cured, and  its  use  in  the  interests  of 
the  workers  ensured,  only  by  revolu- 
tionary action  leading  to  the  dictator- 
ship of  the  proletariat  and  the  creation 
of  a  new  proletarian  state  as  the  in- 
strument of  change.  (Ibid.) 


96 

Saturday,  April  9 

German  Socialism 

A  major  rift  between  so-called 
orthodox  socialism  and  communist 
socialism  occurred  in  1875  when  the 
German  Social  Democratic  party  set 
forth  its  objective  of  winning  power 
by  taking  over  control  of  the  bourgeois 
state,  rather  than  by  overthrowing  it. 
In  effect,  the  German  Social  Demo- 
cratic party  became  a  parliamentary 
party,  aiming  at  the  assumption  of 
political  power  by  constitutional 
means. 

Fabian  Society 

In  the  1880's  a  small  group  of  intel- 
lectuals set  up  in  England  the  Fabian 
Society,  which  has  had  a  major  influ- 
ence on  the  development  of  modern 
orthodox  socialism.  Fabianism  stands 
"for  the  evolutionary  conception  of 
socialism  .  .  .  endeavoring  by  progres- 
sive reforms  and  the  nationalization 
of  industries,  to  turn  the  existing 
state  into  a  'welfare  state.' "  Somewhat 
on  the  order  of  the  German  Social 
Democrats,  Fabians  aim  "at  permeat- 
ing the  existing  parties  with  socialistic 
ideas  [rather]  than  at  creating  a  defi- 
nitely socialistic  party."  They  appeal 
"to  the  electorate  not  as  revolutionaries 
but  as  constitutional  reformers  seeking 
a  peaceful  transformation  of  the  sys- 
tem." (Ibid.) 

Forms  and  policies  of  socialism 

The  differences  in  forms  and  policies 
of  socialism  occur  principally  in  the 
manner  in  which  they  seek  to  imple- 
ment their  theories. 

They  all  advocate: 

(1)  That  private  ownership  of  the 
vital  means  of  production  be  abolished 
and  that  all  such  property  "pass  under 
some  form  of  co-ordinated  public 
control." 

(2)  That  the  power  of  the  state  be 
used  to  achieve  their  aims. 

(3)  "That  with  a  change  in  the 
control  of  industry  will  go  a  change 
in  the  motives  which  operate  in  the 
industrial  system.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.) 

So  much  now  for  the  definition  of 
socialism.  I  have  given  you  these 
statements  in  the  words  of  socialists 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  scholars,  not  my  words,  so  they 
have  had  their  hearing. 

The  United  Order 

Now  as  to  the  United  Order,  and 
here  I  will  give  the  words  of  the  Lord 
and  not  my  words.  The  United  Order, 
the  Lord's  program  for  eliminating  the 
inequalities  among  men,  is  based  upon 
the  underlying  concept  that  the  earth 
and  all  things  therein  belong  to  the 
Lord  and  that  men  hold  earthly  pos- 
sessions as  stewards  accountable  to 
God. 

On  January  2,  1831,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
that  the  Church  was  under  obligation 
to  care  for  the  poor.  (See  D&C  38.) 
Later  he  said: 

"I,  the  Lord,  stretched  out  the 
heavens,  and  built  the  earth,  .  .  .  and 
all  things  therein  are  mine. 

"And  it  is  my  purpose  to  provide 
for  my  saints,  for  all  things  are  mine. 

"But  it  must  needs  be  done  in  mine 
own  way.  .  .  ."  (D&C  104:14-16.) 

Consecration  and  stewardship 

On  February  9,  1831,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  what  his  way 
was.  (See  D&C  42.)  In  his  way  there 
were  two  cardinal  principles:  (1)  con- 
secration and  (2)  stewardship. 

To  enter  the  United  Order,  when  it 
was  being  tried,  one  consecrated  all 
his  possessions  to  the  Church  by  a 
"covenant  and  a  deed  which"  could 
not  "be  broken."  (D&C  42:30.)  That 
is,  he  completely  divested  himself  of 
all  of  his  property  by  conveying  it  to 
the  Church. 

Having  thus  voluntarily  divested 
himself  of  title  to  all  his  property,  the 
consecrator  received  from  the  Church 
a  stewardship  by  a  like  conveyance. 
This  stewardship  could  be  more  or  less 
than  his  original  consecration,  the  ob- 
ject being  to  make  "every  man  equal 
according  to  his  family,  according  to 
his  circumstances  and  his  wants  and 
needs."  (D&C  51:3.) 

This  procedure  preserved  in  every 
man  the  right  to  private  ownership 
and  management  of  his  property.  At 
his  own  option  he  could  alienate  it 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


97 


or  keep  and  operate  it  and  pass  it  on 
to  his  heirs. 

The  intent  was,  however,  for  him  to 
so  operate  his  property  as  to  produce 
a  living  for  himself  and  his  dependents. 
So  long  as  he  remained  in  the  order, 
he  consecrated  to  the  Church  the 
surplus  he  produced  above  the  needs 
and  wants  of  his  family.  This  surplus 
went  into  a  storehouse  from  which 
stewardships  were  given  to  others  and 
from  which  the  needs  of  the  poor 
were  supplied. 

These  divine  principles  are  very 
simple  and  easily  understood.  A  com- 
parison of  them  with  the  underlying 
principles  of  socialism  reveal  similari- 
ties and  basic  differences. 

Comparisons  and  contrasts: 
Similarities 

The  following  are  similarities:  Both 
(1)  deal  with  production  and  distribu- 
tion of  goods;  (2)  aim  to  promote  the 
well-being  of  men  by  eliminating 
their  economic  inequalities;  (3)  en- 
vision the  elimination  of  the  selfish 
motives  in  our  private  capitalistic 
industrial  system. 

Differences 

Now  the  differences: 

(1)  The  cornerstone  of  the  United 
Order  is  belief  in  God  and  acceptance 
of  him  as  Lord  of  the  earth  and  the 
author  of  the  United  Order. 

Socialism,  wholly  materialistic,  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  men  and  not 
of  God.  Although  all  socialists  may  not 
be  atheists,  none  of  them  in  theory  or 
practice  seek  the  Lord  to  establish  his 
righteousness. 

(2)  The  United  Order  is  imple- 
mented by  the  voluntary  free-will 
actions  of  men,  evidenced  by  a  con- 
secration of  all  their  property  to  the 
Church  of  God. 

One  time  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
was  asked  a  question  by  the  brethren 
about  the  inventories  they  were  tak- 
ing. His  answer  was  to  the  effect, 
"You  don't  need  to  be  concerned  about 
the  inventories.  Unless  a  man  is  will- 
ing to  consecrate  everything  he  has, 
he  doesn't  come  into  the  United 
Order."  (Documentary  History  of  the 


Church,  Vol.  7,  pp.  412-13.)  On  the 
other  hand,  socialism  is  implemented 
by  external  force,  the  power  of  the 
state. 

(3)  In  harmony  with  church  be- 
lief, as  set  forth  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  "that  no  government  can 
exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  se- 
cure to  each  individual  the  free  exercise 
of  conscience,  the  right  and  control 
of  property"  (D&C  134:2),  the  United 
Order  is  operated  upon  the  principle 
of  private  ownership  and  individual 
management. 

God-given  agency  preserved 
in  United  Order 

Thus  in  both  implementation  and 
ownership  and  management  of  prop- 
erty, the  United  Order  preserves  to 
men  their  God-given  agency,  while 
socialism  deprives  them  of  it. 

(4)  The  United  Order  is  non- 
political. 

Socialism  is  political,  both  in  theory 
and  practice.  It  is  thus  exposed  to, 
and  riddled  by,  the  corruption  that 
plagues  and  finally  destroys  all  politi- 
cal governments  that  undertake  to 
abridge  man's  agency. 

(5)  A  righteous  people  is  a  pre- 
requisite to  the  United  Order. 

Socialism  argues  that  it  as  a  system 
will  eliminate  the  evils  of  the  profit 
motive. 

The  United  Order  exalts  the  poor 
and  humbles  the  rich.  In  the  process 
both  are  sanctified.  The  poor,  re- 
leased from  the  bondage  and  humiliat- 
ing limitations  of  poverty,  are  enabled 
as  free  men  to  rise  to  their  full  poten- 
tial, both  temporally  and  spiritually. 
The  rich,  by  consecration  and  by  im- 
parting of  their  surplus  for  the  benefit 
of  the  poor,  not  by  constraint  but 
willingly  as  an  act  of  free  will,  evi- 
dence that  charity  for  their  fellow- 
men  characterized  by  Mormon  as  "the 
pure  love  of  Christ."  (Moro.  7:47.) 

Socialism  not  United  Order 

No,  brethren,  socialism  is  not  the 
United  Order.  However,  notwith- 
standing my  abhorrence  of  it,  I  am 
persuaded  that  socialism  is  the  wave 


98  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

of  the  present  and  of  the  foreseeable 
future.  It  has  already  taken  over  or 
is  contending  for  control  in  most  na- 
tions. 

"At  the  end  of  the  year  [1964] 
parties  affiliated  with  the  [Socialist] 
International  were  in  control  of  the 
governments  of  Great  Britain,  Den- 
mark, Norway,  Sweden,  Israel,  and  the 
Malagasy  Republic.  They  had  repre- 
sentatives in  coalition  cabinets  in 
Austria,  Belgium,  Iceland,  Italy,  Lux- 
embourg, and  Switzerland;  constituted 
the  chief  opposition  in  France,  India, 
Japan,  the  Netherlands,  New  Zealand 
and  West  Germany;  and  were  signifi- 
cant political  forces  in  numerous  other 
countries.  Many  parties  dominant  in 
governments  in  Africa,  Asia,  and  Latin 
America  announced  that  their  aim  was 
a  socialist  society."  (Encyclopedia 
Britannica,  1965  Book  of  the  Year, 
p.  736.) 

United  States  has  adopted 
much  socialism 

We  here  in  the  United  States,  in 
converting  our  government  into  a  so- 
cial welfare  state,  have  ourselves 
adopted  much  of  socialism.  Specifically, 
we  have  to  an  alarming  degree  adopted 
the  use  of  the  power  of  the  state  in 
the  control  and  distribution  of  the 
fruits  of  industry.  We  are  on  notice, 
according  to  the  words  of  the  Presi- 
dent, that  we  are  going  much  further, 
for  he  is  quoted  as  saying: 

"We're  going  to  take  all  the  money 
we  think  is  unnecessarily  being  spent 
and  take  it  from  the  'haves'  and  give 
it  to  the  'have  nots.'"  {196i  Congres- 
sional Record,  p.  6142,  Remarks  of  the 
President  to  a  Group  of  Leaders  of 
Organizations  of  Senior  Citizens  in  the 
Fish  Room,  March  24,  1964.) 

Socialism  takes:  United  Order  gives 

That  is  the  spirit  of  socialism:  We're 
going  to  take.  The  spirit  of  the  United 
Order  is:  We're  going  to  give. 

We  have  also  gone  a  long  way  on 
the  road  to  public  ownership  and 
management  of  the  vital  means  of 
production.  In  both  of  these  areas  the 
free  agency  of  Americans  has  been 
greatly  abridged.  Some  argue  that  we 


Second  Day 

have  voluntarily  surrendered  this  power 
to  government.  Be  this  as  it  may,  the 
fact  remains  that  the  loss  of  freedom 
with  the  consent  of  the  enslaved,  or 
even  at  their  request,  is  nonetheless 
slavery. 

As  to  the  fruits  of  socialism,  we  all 
have  our  own  opinions.  I  myself  have 
watched  its  growth  in  our  own  country 
and  observed  it  in  operation  in  many 
other  lands.  But  I  have  yet  to  see  or 
hear  of  its  freeing  the  hearts  of  men 
of  selfishness  and  greed  or  of  its  bring- 
ing peace,  plenty,  or  freedom.  These 
things  it  will  never  bring,  nor  will  it 
do  away  with  idleness  and  promote 
"industry,  thrift  and  self-respect,"  for 
it  is  founded,  in  theory  and  in  practice, 
on  force,  the  principle  of  the  evil  one. 

As  to  the  fruits  of  the  United  Order, 
I  suggest  you  read  Moses  7:16-18  and 
4  Nephi  2-3,  15-16.  If  we  had  time  we 
could  review  the  history,  what  little  we 
know,  of  Zion  in  the  days  of  Enoch 
and  about  what  happened  among  the 
Nephites  under  those  principles  of  the 
United  Order  in  the  first  two  centuries 
following  the  time  of  the  Savior. 

What  can  we  do? 

Now  what  can  we  do  about  it? 

As  I  recently  reminded  my  wife  of 
the  moratorium  on  the  United  Order, 
which  the  Lord  placed  in  1834  (D&C 
105:34),  that  socialism  is  taking  over 
in  the  nations  and  that  its  expressed 
aims  will  surely  fail,  she  spiritedly 
put  to  me  the  question:  "Well,  then, 
what  would  you  suggest,  that  we  just 
sit  on  our  hands  in  despair  and  do 
nothing?"  Perhaps  similar  questions 
have  occurred  to  you.  The  answer  is, 
"No,  by  no  means!"  We  have  much 
to  do,  and  fortunately  for  us  the  Lord 
has  definitely  prescribed  the  course  we 
should  follow  with  respect  to  socialism 
and  the  United  Order. 

Constitution  God-inspired 

He  has  told  us  that  in  preparation 
for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  he 
himself  established  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States,  and  he  has 
plainly  told  us  why  he  established  it. 
I  hope  I  can  get  this  point  over  to  you. 
He  said  he  established  the  Constitution 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


to  preserve  to  men  their  free  agency, 
because  the  whole  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  presupposes  man's  untrammeled 
exercise  of  free  agency.  Man  is  in  the 
earth  to  be  tested.  The  issue  as  to 
whether  he  succeeds  or  fails  will  be 
determined  by  how  he  uses  his 
agency.  His  whole  future,  through  all 
eternity,  is  at  stake.  Abridge  man's 
agency,  and  the  whole  purpose  of  his 
mortality  is  thwarted.  Without  it,  the 
Lord  says,  there  is  no  existence.  (See 
D&C  93:30.)  The  Lord  so  valued  our 
agency  that  he  designed  and  dictated 
"the  laws  and  constitution"  required 
to  guarantee  it.  This  he  explained  in 
the  revelation  in  which  he  instructed 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  appeal 
for  help, 

Just  and  holy  principles 

"According  to  the  laws  and  consti- 
tution of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should 
be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  pro- 
tection of  all  flesh,  according  to  just 
and  holy  principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doc- 
trine and  principle  pertaining  to 
futurity,  according  to  the  moral  agency 
which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that 
every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his 
own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land, 
by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I 
raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose.  .  .  ." 
(D&C  101:77-78,  80.) 

Sustain  Constitutional  law 

Previously  he  had  said: 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you 
concerning  the  laws  of  the  land,  it  is 
my  will  that  my  people  should  ob- 
serve to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I 
command  them. 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is 
constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights 
and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind, 
and  is  justifiable  before  me. 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you, 
and  your  brethren  of  my  church,  in 
befriending  that  law  which  is  the  con- 
stitutional law  of  the  land  [the  test 
of  its  constitutionality  in  the  words  of 


the  Lord  here  is  whether  it  preserves 
man's  agency]; 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man, 
whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  this, 
cometh  of  evil. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free, 
therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and  the 
law  [that  is,  constitutional  law]  also 
maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked 
rule  the  people  mourn. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise 
men  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should 
observe  to  uphold;  otherwise  whatso- 
ever is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil." 
(D&C  98:4-10.) 

These  scriptures  declare  the  Consti- 
tution to  be  a  divine  document.  They 
tell  us  that  "according  to  just  and  holy 
principles,"  the  Constitution  and  the 
law  of  the  land  which  supports  the 
"principle  of  freedom  in  maintaining 
rights  and  privileges,  belongs  to  all 
mankind,  and  is  justifiable  before" 
God;  that,  "as  pertaining  to  [the]  law 
of  man,  whatsoever  is  more  or  less 
than  this,  cometh  of  evil."  They  re- 
mind us  that  the  Lord  has  made  us 
free  and  that  laws  that  are  constitu- 
tional will  also  make  us  free. 

"When  the  wicked  rule, 
the  people  mourn" 

Right  at  this  point,  almost  as  if  he 
were  warning  us  against  what  is  hap- 
pening today,  the  Lord  said:  "Never- 
theless, when  the  wicked  rule  the 
people  mourn."  Then,  that  we  might 
know  with  certainty  what  we  should 
do  about  it,  he  concluded:  "Where- 
fore, honest  men  and  wise  men  should 
be  sought  for  diligently,  and  good 
men  and  wise  men  ye  should  observe 
to  uphold.  .  .  ." 

In  its  context  this  instruction,  ac- 
cording to  my  interpretation,  can  only 
mean  that  we  should  seek  diligently 
for  and  support  men  to  represent  us 
in  government  who  are  "wise"  enough 
to  understand  freedom — as  provided 
for  in  the  Constitution  and  as  imple- 
mented in  the  United  Order — and  who 
are  honest  enough  and  good  enough 
to  fight  to  preserve  it. 

".  .  .  under  no  other  government  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


100 

Saturday,  April  9 

the  world  could  the  Church  have  been 
established,"  said  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  and  he  continued: 

".  .  .  if  we  are  to  live  as  a  Church, 
and  progress,  and  have  the  right  to 
worship  as  we  are  worshipping  here 
today,  we  must  have  the  great  guaran- 
tees that  are  set  up  by  our  Constitu- 
tion. There  is  no  other  way  in  which 
we  can  secure  these  guarantees."  (Con- 
ference Report,  October  1942,  pp.  58- 
59.) 

Now,  not  forgetting  our  duty  to 
eschew  socialism  and  support  the  just 
and  holy  principles  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, as  directed  by  the  Lord,  I  shall 
conclude  these  remarks  with  a  few 
comments  concerning  what  we  should 
do  about  the  United  Order. 

What  to  do  about  United  Order 

The  final  words  of  the  Lord  in  sus- 
pending the  order  were:  "And  let  those 
commandments  which  I  have  given 
concerning  Zion  and  her  law  be  exe- 
cuted and  fulfilled,  after  her  redemp- 
tion." (D&C  105:34.) 

Further  implementation  of  the  order 
must  therefore  await  the  redemption 
of  Zion.  Here  Zion  means  Jackson 
County,  Missouri.  When  Zion  is  re- 
deemed, as  it  most  certainly  shall  be, 
it  will  be  redeemed  under  a  govern- 
ment and  by  a  people  strictly  observing 
those  "just  and  holy  principles"  of  the 
Constitution  that  accord  to  men  their 
God-given  moral  agency,  including 
the  right  to  private  property.  If,  in  the 
meantime,  socialism  takes  over  in 
America,  it  will  have  to  be  displaced, 
if  need  be,  by  the  power  of  God,  be- 
cause the  United  Order  can  never 
function  under  socialism  or  "the  wel- 
fare state,"  for  the  good  and  sufficient 
reason  that  the  principles  upon  which 
socialism  and  the  United  Order  are 
conceived  and  operated  are  inimical. 

In  the  meantime,  while  we  await 
the  redemption  of  Zion  and  the  earth 
and  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Order,  we  as  bearers  of  the  priesthood 
should  live  strictly  by  the  principles 
of  the  United  Order  insofar  as  they 
are  embodied  in  present  church  prac- 
tices, such  as  the  fast  offering,  tithing, 
and  the  welfare  activities.  Through 


Second  Day 

these  practices  we  could  as  individuals, 
if  we  were  of  a  mind  to  do  so,  imple- 
ment in  our  own  lives  all  the  basic 
principles  of  the  United  Order. 

As  you  will  recall,  the  principles 
underlying  the  United  Order  are  con- 
secration and  stewardships  and  then 
the  contribution  of  surpluses  into  the 
bishop's  storehouse.  When  the  law  of 
tithing  was  instituted  four  years  after 
the  United  Order  experiment  was 
suspended,  the  Lord  required  the 
people  to  put  "all  their  surplus  property 
.  .  .  into  the  hands  of  the  bishop" 
(D&C  119:1);  thereafter  they  were  to 
"pay  one-tenth  of  all  their  interest 
annually.  .  .  ."  (D&C  119:4.)  This 
law,  still  in  force,  implements  to  a 
degree  at  least  the  United  Order  prin- 
ciple of  stewardships,  for  it  leaves  in 
the  hands  of  each  person  the  owner- 
ship and  management  of  the  property 
from  which  he  produces  the  needs  of 
himself  and  family.  Furthermore,  to 
use  again  the  words  of  President 
Clark: 

".  .  .  in  lieu  of  residues  and  sur- 
pluses which  were  accumulated  and 
built  up  under  the  United  Order,  we, 
today,  have  our  fast  offerings,  our 
Welfare  donations,  and  our  tithing, 
all  of  which  may  be  devoted  to  the 
care  of  the  poor,  as  well  as  for  the 
carrying  on  of  the  activities  and  busi- 
ness of  the  Church." 

What  prohibits  us  from  giving  as 
much  in  fast  offerings  as  we  would 
have  given  in  surpluses  under  the 
United  Order?  Nothing  but  our  own 
limitations. 

Furthermore,  we  had  under  the 
United  Order  a  bishop's  storehouse  in 
which  were  collected  the  materials 
from  which  to  supply  the  needs  and 
the  wants  of  the  poor.  We  have  a 
bishop's  storehouse  under  the  Welfare 
Plan,  used  for  the  same  purpose.  .  .  . 

"We  have  now  under  the  Welfare 
Plan  all  over  the  Church,  .  .  .  land 
projects  .  .  .  farmed  for  the  benefit  of 
the  poor.  .  .  . 

"Thus  ...  in  many  of  its  great 
essentials,  we  have,  [in]  the  Welfare 
Plan  .  .  .  the  broad  essentials  of  the 
United  Order.  Furthermore,  having  in 
mind  the  assistance  which  is  being 
given  from  time  to  time  ...  to  help 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


101 


set  people  up  in  business  or  in  farming, 
we  have  a  plan  which  is  not  essen- 
tially unlike  that  which  was  in  the 
United  Order  when  the  poor  were 
given  portions  from  the  common 
fund." 

It  is  thus  apparent  that  when  the 
principles  of  tithing  and  the  fast  are 
properly  observed  and  the  Welfare 
Plan  gets  fully  developed  and  wholly 
into  operation,  "we  shall  not  be  so 
very  far  from  carrying  out  the  great 
fundamentals  of  the  United  Order." 
(Conference  Report,  October  1942,  pp. 
57-58.) 

The  only  limitation  on  you  and  me 
is  within  ourselves. 

A  Prayer: 

And  now  in  line  with  these  remarks, 
for  three  things  I  pray: 

(1)  That  the  Lord  will  somehow 
quicken  our  understanding  of  the 
differences  between  socialism  and  the 
United  Order  and  give  us  a  vivid 
awareness  of  the  awful  portent  of  those 
differences. 

(2)  That  we  will  develop  the  under- 
standing, the  desire,  and  the  courage, 
born  of  the  Spirit,  to  eschew  socialism 
and  to  support  and  sustain,  in  the 
manner  revealed  and  as  interpreted  by 
the  Lord,  those  just  and  holy  principles 


embodied  in  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  for  the  protection  of  all 
flesh,  in  the  exercise  of  their  God-given 
agency. 

(3)  That  through  faithful  observ- 
ance of  the  principles  of  tithing,  the 
fast,  and  the  welfare  program,  we  will 
prepare  ourselves  to  redeem  Zion  and 
ultimately  live  the  United  Order,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  are  lis- 
tening in  by  radio,  he  to  whom  you 
have  listened  is  Elder  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Preceding  him  was  Bishop  John  H. 
Vandenberg  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Brother  Hansen  will  now  lead  the 
Boise  Mormonaires  and  the  congrega- 
tion in  singing,  "O  Say,  What  Is 
Truth?".  After  the  singing,  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  president  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  address  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  President  N. 
Eldon  Tanner  of  the  First  Presidency. 

Singing  "O  Say  What  Is  Truth"  by 
the  Boise  Mormonaires  and  the  con- 
gregation. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  and  President  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  have  had  a  delightful  meeting 
to  this  point,  and  I  hope  and  pray 
that  what  I  say  will  be  for  the  benefit 
of  all  who  are  listening. 

Serve  others 

Service  in  behalf  of  others  is  one 
thing  required  of  every  soul.  He  who 
is  able  but  who  will  not  serve  his 
fellows  in  some  way  is  not  fit  to  have 
place  among  them.  Serving  others  is 
its  own  reward.  When  we  receive  the 
priesthood,  we  do  so  with  the  under- 
standing that  it  will  be  used  for  the 
benefit  of  others.  This  is  an  obliga- 
tion we  take  upon  us.  In  fact,  priest- 


hood blesses  us  in  two  ways:  first,  it  is 
the  means  through  which  exaltation 
comes  to  those  who  hold  it;  second,  it 
is  to  be  used  in  behalf  of  others  that 
they  also  may  be  blessed.  No  man  is 
independent.  Put  a  man  off  by  him- 
self, where  he  could  communicate  with 
none  of  his  fellow  beings  or  receive  aid 
from  them,  and  he  would  perish  mis- 
erably. It  is  a  mistake  for  us  to  draw 
within  ourselves  as  does  a  snail  into 
its  shell.  No  man  has  been  given  the 
priesthood  as  an  ornament  only.  He 
is  expected  to  use  it  in  behalf  of  the 
salvation  of  others. 
Not  only  is  he  expected,  but  he  is 


102 

Saturday,  April  9 

commanded  to  do  so,  for  the  Lord 
said,  after  pointing  out  the  various 
offices  in  the  priesthood  and  the  duties 
assigned  to  each: 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  him- 
self not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand.  Even  so.  Amen." 
(D&C  107:99-100.) 

Honor  the  Covenant  and  Promise 

This  means  that  the  man  who  ac- 
cepts the  priesthood  also  accepts  the 
responsibilities  that  go  with  it.  He 
promises  that  he  will  give  service  and 
make  himself  approved.  If  he  breaks 
this  covenant — -for  it  is  a  covenant — 
then  he  will  have  to  stand  among 
those  who  do  not  exercise  priesthood; 
he  cannot  stand  among  those  who  are 
approved.  Let  every  man  who  holds 
the  priesthood  understand  that  he  can- 
not enter  into  exaltation  without  the 
priesthood.  If  he  refuses  to  use  that 
priesthood  when  it  is  conferred  upon 
him,  he  will  not  be  found  worthy  to 
hold  it  in  that  day  when  men  are  re- 
warded according  to  their  works. 

Each  man  holding  the  priesthood 
should  learn  his  duty  from  the  Parable 
of  the  Talents;  for  when  the  Lord  shall 
come,  like  rewards  shall  be  given  us. 
Many  who  have  promised  to  magnify 
their  priesthood  and  who  have  failed 
to  do  so  shall  be  cast  out.  Their  priest- 
hood shall  be  taken  from  them,  and 
they  shall  find  themselves  outside  the 
gates  of  the  City,  for  they  cannot 
stand  with  those  who  have  been  faith- 
ful. Theirs  shall  be  a  condition  of 
weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth.  "For 
unto  every  one  that  hath  shall  be 
given,  .  .  .  but  from  him  that  hath 
not  shall  be  taken  away  even  that 
which  he  hath."  (Matt.  25:29.)  Sim- 
ply this:  We  are  under  obligation  as 
men  holding  the  priesthood  to  put  to 
service  the  authority  which  we  have 
received.  If  we  do  this,  then  we  shall 
have  other  responsibilities  and  glory 
added,  and  we  shall  receive  an  abun- 
dance, that  is,  the  fullness  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Father's  kingdom;  but  if  we  bury  our 
priesthood,  then  we  are  not  entitled  to 
receive  any  reward — we  cannot  be 
exalted. 

Honor  duty  in  all  diligence 

Every  member  of  the  Church  should 
try  to  find  some  church  duty  to  per- 
form. Never  refuse  to  serve.  When  a 
presiding  officer  asks  your  help,  be 
glad  to  accept  and  give  the  best  you 
have  to  that  labor.  The  Lord  expects 
this  of  us,  and  we  are  under  covenant 
to  do  so.  This  course  brings  joy  and 
peace,  and  at  the  same  time  those  who 
serve  receive  the  greatest  blessing.  The 
teacher  gains  more  than  the  one 
taught;  the  blessing  returned  to  us 
when  we  accept  a  call  to  work  in  the 
Church  is  far  greater  than  the  blessing 
we  can  impart  to  others.  He  who  re- 
fuses to  perform  any  labor  or  shirks 
responsibility  when  it  is  given  him 
in  the  Church  is  in  grave  danger  of 
losing  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit. 
Eventually  he  becomes  lukewarm  and 
indifferent  to  all  duties,  and,  like  the 
plant  that  is  not  cultivated  and  wa- 
tered, he  shrivels  up  and  dies  a 
spiritual  death. 

Blessings  are  abundant 

Do  you  think  it  will  ever  be  possible 
for  any  one  of  us,  no  matter  how  hard 
we  labor,  or  even  if  we  should  suffer 
martyrdom,  to  pay  our  Father  and 
Jesus  Christ  for  the  blessings  we  have 
received  from  them?  The  great  love, 
with  its  accompanying  blessings,  ex- 
tended to  us  through  the  crucifixion, 
suffering,  and  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  beyond  our  mortal  compre- 
hension. We  never  could  repay.  We 
have  been  bought  with  a  price  beyond 
computation — not  with  gold  or  silver 
or  precious  stones,  "but  with  the  pre- 
cious blood  of  Christ,  as  of  a  lamb 
without  blemish,  and  without  spot." 
(1  Pet.  1:19.) 

"I  stand  all  amazed  at  the  love  Jesus 

offers  me, 
Confused  at  the  grace  that  so  fully  he 

proffers  me; 
I  tremble  to  know  that  for  me  he  was 

crucified, 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER  103 


That  for  me  a  sinner,  he  suffered,  he 
bled  and  died. 

"I  think  of  his  hands  pierced  and 
bleeding  to  pay  the  debt! 

Such  mercy,  such  love,  and  devotion 
can  I  forget? 

No,  no,  I  will  praise  and  adore  at  the 
mercy  seat, 


Until  at  the  glorified  throne  I  kneel 

at  his  feet. 
"Oh,  it  is  wonderful  that  he  should 

care  for  me, 
Enough  to  die  for  me! 
Oh,  it  is  wonderful,  wonderful  to  me!" 
(Charles  H.  Gabriel,  in  Hymns,  80.) 

The  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  E.  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren:  It  is  good  to  be  with  you 
this  evening  in  our  general  priesthood 
meeting  and  to  have  the  priesthood 
meeting  in  over  400  different  places, 
listening  to  these  services  tonight. 

We  are  very  happy  to  have  President 
McKay  with  us.  We  shall  hear  his 
message  later. 

Word  of  Wisdom  blessing 
and  promise 

I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  about  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  When  I  was  a 
boy  and  they  talked  about  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  all  I  thought  of  was  that 
this  was  a  religious  requirement.  In 
fact,  we  were  told  a  good  many  times: 
A  cup  of  coffee  won't  hurt  you;  a  cup 
of  tea  won't  hurt  you;  one  cigarette 
won't  hurt  you;  a  drink  won't  hurt 
you;  it's  getting  the  habit  that  will 
bother  you.  And  we  kids  used  to  think 
that  the  Church  was  prudish  and  odd 
for  trying  to  get  us  to  do  things  that 
made  us  look  funny  in  the  sight  of 
the  boys  with  whom  we  associated 
who  were  not  members  of  the  Church. 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  few  words 
about  the  breaking  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  what  it  means  to  us,  the 
danger  of  tampering  with  things  that 
the  Lord  has  told  us  not  to  tamper 
with,  both  as  it  affects  our  bodies  and 
as  it  affects  our  ability  to  resist,  if  we 
get  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  line. 

A  safeguard  against  capture 

This  has  been  said  about  Satan,  as 
we  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants: 


"Satan  stirreth  them  up,  that  he 
may  lead  their  souls  to  destruction. 

"And  thus  he  has  laid  a  cunning 
plan,  thinking  to  destroy  the  work  of 
God;  but  I  will  require  this  at  their 
hands,  and  it  shall  turn  to  their  shame 
and  condemnation  in  the  day  of  judg- 
ment. 

"Yea,  he  stirreth  up  their  hearts  to 
anger  against  this  work. 

"Yea,  he  saith  unto  them:  Deceive 
and  lie  in  wait  to  catch,  that  ye  may 
destroy;  behold,  this  is  no  harm.  And 
thus  he  flattereth  them,  and  telleth 
them  that  it  is  no  sin  to  lie  that  they 
may  catch  a  man  in  lie,  that  they  may 
destroy  him. 

"And  thus  he  flattereth  them,  and 
leadeth  them  along  until  he  draggeth 
their  souls  down  to  hell;  and  thus  he 
causeth  them  to  catch  themselves  in 
their  own  snare. 

"And  thus  he  goeth  up  and  down, 
to  and  fro  in  the  earth,  seeking  to  de- 
stroy the  souls  of  men."  (D&C 
10:22-27.) 

There  is  no  doubt,  boys — and  you 
are  the  ones  I  am  talking  to  tonight — 
there  is  no  doubt  but  that  Satan  is 
out,  going  up  and  down,  here  and 
there,  trying  in  every  way  he  can  to 
destroy  us. 

"Tobacco  is  not  good  for  man" 

It  is  an  interesting  thing  that  over 
130  years  ago  a  prophet  of  God  said 
".  .  .  tobacco  ...  is  not  good  for 
man,  .  .  ."  (D&C  89:8),  and  now 
scientists  all  over  the  world  say  that 
tobacco  is  not  good  for  man.  You  have 


104 

Saturday,  April  9 

heard  it  talked  about  a  good  deal,  but 
I  would  like  to  appeal  to  these  boys 
who  are  listening  to  me  tonight — and 
have  them  appeal  to  other  boys 
wherever  they  may  be,  and  have  their 
fathers  appeal  to  them — to  let  them 
realize  what  a  great  danger  is  involved 
in  partaking  of  tobacco  and  alcohol 
and  these  other  things  that  are  advised 
against. 

Dr.  William  H.  Stewart  has  said 
the  so-called  "next-guy  theory" —  that 
it  can  happen  to  someone  else  but 
not  to  me — is  the  psychology  that  is 
preventing  anti-cigarette  campaigns 
from  making  more  headway.  The 
fallacy  of  this  kind  of  reasoning  is 
illustrated  in  the  story  of  a  Honolulu 
reporter,  who  said,  "It  just  can't  hap- 
pen to  me;  I'm  safe."  But  this  Hawaiian 
newsman,  Mark  Waters,  spoke  from 
the  grave  to  readers  of  the  Honolulu 
Star  Bulletin.  Waters  died  of  lung  can- 
cer at  the  age  of  56  on  February  1,  the 
day  the  Star  Bulletin  ran  his  last  story. 
It  was  a  by-line  account  of  a  42-year 
rendezvous  with  his  killer. 

The  story  was  written  in  the  hospital 
five  days  before  his  death.  Waters 
read  proof  on  the  story  and  made  final 
corrections  the  day  before  he  suc- 
cumbed, observing  that  it  might  help 
someone  else. 

Waters  told  how  he  started  smoking 
at  14,  stealing  cigarettes  from  his 
father's  pack,  and  how  he  continued 
at  the  rate  of  two  packs  a  day,  even 
after  suffering  a  stroke  and  contracting 
bronchitis.  Doctors  discovered  cancer 
in  his  left  lung.  A  lobe  was  removed. 
Waters  gained  10  pounds  after  the 
September  operation  and  felt  fine.  Four 
months  later  pain  returned.  The  doctor 
removed  fluid  from  his  chest  cavity 
but  had  to  tell  him  that  he  had  little 
time  to  live. 

"Not  a  soul  I've  preached  to  has 
stopped  smoking,"  he  wrote  from  his 
hospital  bed,  "not  a  single,  solitary 
soul. 

"It's  one  of  those  things.  You  al- 
ways think,  it'll  happen  to  others,  but 
never  to  me.  When  you  get  lung  can- 
cer, God  help  you." 

Like  the  rest  of  his  story,  Waters' 
conclusion  was  terse. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"I'm  short  of  breath.  I  can't  take 
five  steps  without  having  to  sit 

"The  cancer  has  gone  to  my  liver 
and  I  don't  know  where  else. 

"I  don't  have  a  ghost  of  a  chance. 

"It's  too  late  for  me. 

"It  may  not  be  for  you." 

I  want  to  tell  you  a  little  story  about 
a  boy  I  knew  very  well,  my  baby 
brother,  as  sweet  a  boy  as  I  ever  knew 
— kind,  considerate  of  his  mother,  and 
loved  by  every  member  of  the  family. 
But  he  got  into  wrong  company  when 
he  was  just  a  little  boy,  and  he  started 
using  cigarettes.  He  used  to  steal 
away  and  have  his  smoke,  and  then 
he  got  to  smoking  a  little  more  and 
a  little  more,  until  he  became  a 
habitual  smoker.  He  had  four  older 
brothers,  and  we  tried  to  get  him  to 
quit  smoking,  to  realize  that  he 
shouldn't  be  doing  it. 

He  kept  saying  he  was  going  to  quit 
smoking,  but  just  a  few  years  ago  he 
died  of  lung  cancer.  And  if  anything 
makes  you  hate  tobacco,  it  is  to  have 
a  brother,  one  of  the  finest  young  fel- 
lows that  you  know,  go  to  his  death 
because  he  had  that  habit  of  smoking. 
He  thought  when  he  was  a  kid,  "I 
can  quit  any  time  I  want  to."  In 
fact  he  used  to  say  so,  and  he  used  to 
try  to  quit  but  he  couldn't. 

I  want  to  tell  you  another  story 
about  a  man  whom  I  knew  very  well 
in  Calgary,  Alberta,  one  of  the  out- 
standing drillers  in  the  oil  business — 
one  who  was  very  well-to-do  and  had 
the  biggest  string  of  drilling  rigs  in 
the  whole  country. 

Strong  drink  not  good  for  man 

He  was  doing  a  little  social  drink- 
ing. (May  I  add  here,  in  case  I  forget 
it,  that  one  out  of  every  15  who  does 
a  little  social  drinking  becomes  an 
alcoholic.  When  you  are  in  a  group 
where  there  are  15  men  who  are  drink- 
ing socially,  you  are  going  to  find 
that  one  will  be  an  alcoholic.  Every 
one  of  them  will  say,  "How  silly;  it 
couldn't  happen  to  me.  I  am  just 
drinking  socially.  I  am  not  going  to 
drink  much."  And  they  continue  to 
argue  about  it  until  they  are  in  the 
gutter.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


105 


This  man  of  whom  I  am  speaking  I 
knew  very  well,  since  I  was  Minister 
of  Mines  up  there.  His  social  drink- 
ing made  him  an  alcoholic.  That  poor 
fellow  was  worked  with  by  his  part- 
ner, he  was  worked  with  by  his 
friends,  he  was  encouraged  in  every 
way  to  quit  this  drinking,  but  it  was 
getting  the  better  of  him.  He  said, 
"You  are  crazy.  I  can  quit  drinking 
any  time  I  want  to."  But  finally  this 
was  his  story — of  course  I  knew  it 
without  his  telling  it — and  I  had  him 
go  to  a  group  of  our  young  men  to 
tell  it:  "I  didn't  realize  until  I  was 
actually  in  the  gutter  that  I  was  an 
alcoholic  and  couldn't  control  myself. 
It  cost  me  my  business,  it  cost  me  my 
wife,  it  cost  me  my  friends,  it  cost  me 
the  respect  of  everyone  who  knew  me. 
I  was  literally  in  the  gutter  because  I 
took  the  first  drink."  And  he  added, 
"I  want  to  tell  you,  young  men,  no 
man  can  afford  to  take  one  drink  of 
alcohol.  I  don't  care  who  he  is,  how 
much  he  is  worth,  or  if  he  is  a  multi- 
millionaire— he  cannot  afford  to  take 
one  drink  of  alcohol." 

Danger 

I  want  to  say  to  you  boys,  wherever 
you  are  tonight:  Realize  that  you  can't 
afford  to  play  with  these  things  that 
will  take  your  life.  You  can't  afford 
to  do  it  anyway,  because  the  Lord  has 
said,  "Don't  do  it."  It  is  being  proven 
in  every  way  that  tobacco  and  alcohol 
are  not  good  for  us. 

Let  us  be  men.  Let  us  not  be  sissies. 
Anybody  can  drink,  and  anybody  can 
smoke.  It  doesn't  take  brains  to  do 
that.  But  it  does  take  brains  and  a 
little  willpower  and  a  little  sense  to 


refuse  the  first  smoke  and  the  first 
drink  of  alcohol.  And  leave  the  other 
things — tea  and  coffee — alone  as  well, 
because  they  are  the  first  steps  to  the 
other  transgressions. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  that  every 
member  in  this  Church  holding  the 
priesthood — in  fact  every  member — 
will  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  know- 
ing that  it  is  a  commandment  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  for  your  own  good.  You 
are  not  a  sissy.   Don't  be  a  fool. 

Remember  that  the  priesthood  you 
hold  is  the  power  of  God  delegated  to 
you  to  act  in  his  name.  He  has  prom- 
ised that  if  you  magnify  your  priest- 
hood all  that  he  has  is  yours. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  God  lives  and  that  through  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation  has  been  given  to  us  to  let 
us  know  how  we  can  enjoy  life  here 
upon  the  earth  and  prepare  ourselves 
for  immortality  and  eternal  life. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end 
and  give  us  strength  to  do  his  will,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

You  have  heard  from  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  President 
N.  Eldon  Tanner. 

President  McKay  has  consented  to 
give  us  a  message  tonight,  but  his 
doctors  have  advised  that  he  do  not 
try  to  give  it  personally,  so  he  has 
asked  his  son,  Robert,  if  he  will  present 
that  message,  which  he  will  do  now, 
please. 

Message  of  President  McKay  read 
by  Robert  R.  McKay. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Read  by  his  son,  Robert  R.  McKay 


It  is  a  joy  and  a  great  privilege  to 
meet  with  this  vast  audience  of  priest- 
hood members  gathered  in  this  historic 
Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
more  than  four  hundred  other  build- 
ings throughout  the  United  States  and 
Canada.  I  extend  my  affectionate 
greetings  and  blessings  to  each  of  you. 


"I  charge  thee  .  .  .",  wrote  Paul  to 
Timothy,  "before  God,  and  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  .  .  ; 

"Preach  the  word;  be  instant  in 
season,  out  of  season;  reprove,  rebuke, 
exhort  with  all  longsuffering  and  doc- 
trine." (2  Tim.  4:1-2.) 

In  the  same  letter  he  prophetically 


106  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

declared,  ".  .  .  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their 
own  selves,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than 
lovers  of  God; 

"Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but 
denying  the  power  thereof.  .  .  ."  (2 
Tim.  3:1-2,  4-5.) 

Perilous  times 

It  is  in  the  spirit  of  Paul's  charge 
and  prophecy  that  I  call  attention  to 
the  rising  crime  wave  that  is  sweeping 
over  the  country.  Few  will  question 
that  we  are  living  in  perilous  times 
and  that  many  people  have  lost  their 
moorings  and  are  being  "tossed  to 
and  fro,  .  .  .  with  every  wind  of  doc- 
trine, by  the  sleight  of  men,  and  cun- 
ning craftiness,  whereby  they  lie  in 
wait  to  deceive."  (Eph.  4:14.) 

Cost  of  crime 

Crime  is  costing  this  nation  twenty- 
seven  billion  dollars  a  year  and  an 
annual  toll  of  death,  injury,  suffering 
and  anguish  for  thousands  of  Ameri- 
cans. 

Just  recently  Dr.  Norman  Vincent 
Peale,  in  referring  to  the  decline  in 
moral  standards,  said,  "Most  radical 
social  changes  come  slowly.  But  not 
this  time.  It  is  almost  as  if  the  demonic 
powers  in  sex — and  make  no  mistake, 
sex  has  its  demonic  side — had  been 
released  in  a  sudden  explosion  that  has 
blasted  away  the  restraints  and  tradi- 
tions of  centuries.  The  spark  that  has 
set  off  this  explosion  is  a  twisted  con- 
cept of  freedom,  a  'new  freedom'  that 
too  often  leaves  its  adherents  in 
chains."  And  then  Dr.  Peale  gives  a 
Newsweek  report  which  states:  "Un- 
doubtedly the  key  to  the  new  morality 
is  the  widespread  belief  that  a  boy  and 
girl  who  have  established  what  the 
college  calls  a  meaningful  relationship 
have  the  moral  right  to  sleep  together." 

Who  is  hurt? 

The  young  people  want  to  know 
v/hat  difference  it  makes  if  no  one  is 
getting  hurt,  but  Dr.  Peale  says,  "This 
sounds  fine  in  theory,  but  multiply  this 
attitude  by  millions  of  eager  experi- 


Second  Day 

ments  and  what  do  you  get?  You 
get  such  statistics  as  these:  'Between 
the  years  1940  and  1957  the  illegiti- 
macy rate  increased:  112  percent  in 
the  15-19  age  group;  300  percent  in  the 
20-24  age  group;  462  percent  in  the  25- 
29  age  group;  478  percent  in  the  30-34 
age  group;  456  percent  in  the  35-39  age 
group;  and  196  percent  in  the  40-44 
age  group. 

"  'Venereal  disease  among  adoles- 
cents rose  130  percent  between  the 
years  1956  and  1961.  The  illegitimacy 
rate  has  tripled  since  1953.  By  1970, 
ten-million  Americans  will  have  been 
born  out  of  wedlock.  Forty  percent  of 
the  unwed  mothers  are  between  the 
ages  of  15  and  19.' 

"No  one  is  getting  hurt?"  continues 
Dr.  Peale.  "What  a  laugh!  What  a 
hollow,  tragic,  gruesome  laugh!  And 
the  hurt  is  not  confined  to  individuals; 
it  damages  and  degrades  our  nation 
throughout  the  world.  From  the  begin- 
ning of  recorded  history,  men  have 
known  that  the  sex  drive  had  to  be 
controlled  if  civilization  was  to  replace 
anarchy.  Dr.  J.  D.  Unwin,  Historian 
of  the  Cambridge  University,  made  a 
study  of  eighty  civilizations  ranging 
over  a  period  of  four-thousand  years 
and  concluded  that  a  society  either 
chooses  sexual  promiscuity  and  decline, 
or  sexual  discipline  and  creative 
energy.  Writes  Dr.  Unwin:  'Any 
human  society  is  free  to  choose  either 
to  display  great  energy,  or  to  enjoy 
sexual  freedom;  the  evidence  is  that 
they  cannot  do  both  for  more  than  one 
generation.' "  (Excerpt  from  Sin,  Sex 
and  Self-Control  by  Dr.  Norman  Vin- 
cent Peale,  pp.  49,  53-56.) 

Neglect  of  families 

One  important  cause  of  the  increase 
in  delinquency,  especially  in  our 
youth,  is  a  letdown  in  home  ideals.  A 
growing  desire  for  economic  indepen- 
dence or  a  too  eager  willingness  to 
improve  financial  circumstances  has 
influenced  a  great  many  mothers  to 
neglect  the  greatest  of  all  responsibili- 
ties— the  rearing  of  a  family. 

J.  Edgar  Hoover,  the  national  direc- 
tor of  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investiga- 
tion, makes  the  definite  statement  that 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


107 


"in  the  background  of  these  youthful 
offenders  lies  the  story  of  shocking 
neglect.  Boys  and  girls  are  being 
deprived  of  the  care  and  guidance 
necessary  to  the  proper  foundation  of 
their  characters.  Their  lawlessness  had 
its  roots  in  every  instance  in  broken 
homes,  in  homes  where  mothers  and 
fathers  because  of  their  neglect,  mis- 
understanding, or  irresponsibility  had 
failed  in  their  primary  obligation. 
More  often  than  not,  God  was  un- 
known, or,  more  important,  was 
unwelcome  in  their  homes.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  nearly  every  instance 
the  youthful  offender  would  have 
been  a  strong,  upright  citizen  had  he 
been  given  a  chance." 

Keep  homes  intact 

The  inspiration  of  God  is  seen  in 
requiring  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  keep 
their  homes  intact  and  to  teach  their 
children  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  "And  they  shall  also  teach 
their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord."  This  com- 
mand from  the  Lord,  given  to  us  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section 
68,  verse  28,  leaves  no  question  as  to 
the  responsibility  of  parents  to  teach 
their  children — a  responsibility  too 
frequently  shifted  to  the  shoulders  of 
the  Church,  public  schools,  and  offi- 
cers of  the  law. 

Use  family  home  evening 

I  believe  that  parents  in  the  Church 
generally  are  teaching  their  children 
the  gospel,  yet  I  am  convinced  that 
there  is  still  much  opportunity  for 
improvement  in  this  regard,  especially 
in  light  of  present-day  conditions.  I 
am  grateful  and  pleased  that  so  many 
are  responding  to  our  program  for  the 
family  home  evening,  in  which  par- 
ents gather  their  children  around 
them  and  instruct  them  in  truth  and 
righteousness  and  in  family  love  and 
loyalty.  A  great  number  of  families 
have  testified  to  the  rich  blessings  that 
have  come  to  them  from  these  family 
home  evenings. 

Unwavering  loyalty  to  God 

If  you  ask  me  where  I  first  received 
my  unwavering  faith  in  the  existence 


of  a  God,  I  would  answer  you:  in  the 
home  of  my  childhood — when  Father 
and  Mother  invariably  called  their 
children  around  them  in  the  morning 
and  at  night  and  invoked  God's 
blessing  upon  the  household  and  upon 
mankind.  There  was  a  sincerity  in  that 
good  patriarch's  voice  that  left  an  un- 
dying impression  in  the  souls  of  his 
children,  and  Mother's  prayers  were 
equally  impressive.  I  ask  tonight  that 
every  father  in  the  Church  see  to  it 
that  in  all  sincerity  he  impress  his 
children  with  the  reality  of  the  exis- 
tence of  God  and  with  the  reality  that 
God  will  guide  and  protect  his  chil- 
dren. You  carry  that  responsibility. 
Home  is  one  of  the  units — the  funda- 
mental unit — of  society.  Before  I  heard 
my  father  testify  that  he  had  heard  a 
divine  voice,  I  knew  that  he  lived  near 
to  his  Maker.  I  also  know,  through  a 
nearness  to  that  same  Eternal  Father 
since,  that  my  father  told  the  truth 
when  he  said  that  when  he  was  on  his 
mission  in  Scotland,  in  answer  to 
fervent  prayer,  he  received  the  follow- 
ing admonition  given  in  audible  tones: 
"Testify  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God."  Such  is  the  reality 
of  the  true  Latter-day  Saint's  concep- 
tion of  God  the  Father. 

Warning  against  evils 

Ever  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  its  leaders  have  raised  their 
voices  warning  that  infidelity  and 
sexual  immorality  are  two  principal 
evils  that  threaten  to  weaken  and  to 
wreck  present-day  civilization.  Unfor- 
tunately, the  trends  of  modern  life  are 
disintegrating  the  very  foundation  of 
the  Christian  home.  Sexual  laxity,  in- 
temperance, and  crime  are  its  insidious 
and  vicious  enemies. 

One  standard  of  morality 

In  the  Church  there  is  but  one 
standard  of  morality.  No  young  man 
has  any  more  right  to  sow  his  wild 
oats  in  youth  than  has  a  young  girl; 
she  is  taught  that  second  only  to  the 
crime  of  taking  human  life  is  that  of 
losing  her  virtue,  and  that  should  be 
also  the  ideal  among  young  men. 

I  know  from  experience  that  the 


108  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

world  does  not  believe  us  when  we  tell 
them  that  that  ideal  is  followed  in  the 
Church,  but  we  know  in  our  hearts  it 
is  true.  That  young  man  who  comes  to 
his  bishop  and  asks  for  a  recommend 
to  take  a  pure  girl  to  the  altar  is 
expected  to  give  just  the  same  purity 
that  he  expects  to  receive. 

Peace  in  righteous  living 

No  one  can  transgress  the  laws  of 
chastity  and  find  peace.  That  is  the 
message  that  we  must  give  as  parents 
and  priesthood  members  to  the  young 
men  and  women  and  all  others 
throughout  the  Church.  No  matter 
what  the  opportunity,  no  matter  what 
the  temptation,  let  the  young  man 
know  that  to  find  happiness  he  must 
hold  sacred  his  true  manhood.  Let 
him  know  that  he  is  going  to  live,  and 
live  completely,  by  refusing  to  yield  to 
temptations.  Then  he  is  happy.  There 
is  peace  instead  of  turbulency  in  his 
soul. 

A  happy  marriage  begins  when  a 
young  couple  kneels  at  the  altar,  each 
giving  to  the  other  what  each  demands 
and  each  covenanting  to  be  true  to  the 
other. 

Marriage  is  of  divine  origin 

For  the  proper  solution  of  the  great 
problem  of  marriage,  we  may  turn  with 
safety  to  Jesus  for  our  guide.  He  de- 
clared that  the  marriage  relation  is  of 
divine  origin  and  that  marriage  is  or- 
dained of  God,  that  only  under  the 
most  exceptional  conditions  should  it 
be  set  aside.  In  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  the  family  assumes 
supreme  importance  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  individual  and  of  society. 
"Happy  and  thrice  happy  are  they  who 
enjoy  an  uninterrupted  union  and 
whose  love,  unbroken  by  any  com- 
plaints, shall  not  dissolve  until  the  last 
day."  It  will  not  dissolve  when  a 
worthy  couple  is  sealed  by  the  author- 
ity of  the  Holy  Priesthood  throughout 
all  eternity.  The  marriage  ceremony 
when  thus  sealed  produces  happiness 
and  joy  unsurpassed  by  any  other  ex- 
perience in  the  world. 

To  no  other  group  of  men  in  all  the 
world  is  given  a  better  opportunity  to 


Second  Day 

instruct  and  inspire  our  young  men 
and  women  to  keep  themselves  un- 
spotted from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
Members  of  the  Church  and  especially 
of  the  priesthood  have  the  opportunity 
to  be  engaged  in  the  noblest  calling  in 
life — to  establish  salvation  and  peace 
to  the  extent  that  their  individual 
efforts,  their  talents,  and  their  means 
are  consecrated,  and  their  lives  are 
dedicated  to  make  the  world  a  better 
and  fitter  place  for  man. 

Great  worth  of  souls 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  given 
the  divine  message:  "Remember  the 
worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of 
God.  .  .  ."  (D&C  18:10.)  Such  is  the 
philosophy  expressed  by  the  Redeemer 
in  the  seemingly  paradoxical  statement, 
".  .  .  he  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake 
shall  find  it."  (Matt.  10:39.)  The 
meaning  of  this  becomes  clear  in  the 
light  of  another  passage  which  says, 
"Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye 
have  done  it  unto  me."  (Matt.  25:40.) 

Just  to  be  associated  with  men 
striving  toward  such  an  aim  is  a  joy, 
and  to  assist  them  in  their  quest,  an 
inspiration.  If  you  are  true  followers  of 
the  Savior,  you  are  striving  to  serve 
your  fellowmen  in  love. 

Unwavering  allegiance  to  God 

To  the  thousands  assembled  in  this 
historic  Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall, 
and  to  the  thousands  listening  in  by 
direct  wire,  I  pray  with  an  earnest 
heart,  God  keep  you  away  from  the 
base,  scheming  plans  of  him  who  en- 
thrones passion,  who  decries  self- 
control,  who  renounces  the  sacredness 
of  the  family,  and  who,  in  the  words 
of  the  communist,  Marx  himself,  would 
"dethrone  God." 

Officers,  leaders,  men  of  the  priest- 
hood, you  are  chosen  of  God.  Go  forth 
radiating  a  testimony  that  this  is  God's 
work.  Feel  it  yourselves,  and  then  the 
men  and  women  in  your  wards  and 
stakes  will  feel  it;  the  young  people 
especially  will  feel  it,  for  you  are 
radiating  not  just  what  you  say,  but 
what  you  are  and  what  you  do. 

God  guide  us,  and  help  us,  and  in- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


109 


spire  us  in  this  great  work,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Statement  concerning  the  position  of 
the  Church  on  Communism,  made  by 
President  David  O.  McKay  at  the 
general  priesthood  session  of  the  136th 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church, 
held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle,  Sat- 
urday, April  9,  1966,  at  7:00  p.m.,  read 
by  Robert  R.  McKay. 

In  order  that  there  may  be  no  mis- 
understandings by  bishops,  stake  presi- 
dents, and  others  regarding  members 
of  the  Church  participating  in  non- 
church  meetings  to  study  and  become 
informed  on  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  Communism,  etc.,  I 
wish  to  make  the  following  statements 
that  I  have  been  sending  out  from  my 
office  for  some  time  and  that  have 
come  under  question  by  some  stake 
authorities,  bishoprics,  and  others. 

Members  are  free 

Church  members  are  at  perfect  lib- 
erty to  act  according  to  their  own 
consciences  in  the  matter  of  safeguard- 
ing our  way  of  life.  They  are,  of 
course,  encouraged  to  honor  the  highest 
standards  of  the  gospel  and  to  work 
to  preserve  their  own  freedoms.  They 
are  free  to  participate  in  nonchurch 
meetings  that  are  held  to  warn  people 
of  the  threat  of  Communism  or  any 
other  theory  or  principle  that  will  de- 
prive us  of  our  free  agency  or  indi- 
vidual liberties  vouchsafed  by  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Church  is  politically  neutral 

The  Church,  out  of  respect  for  the 
rights  of  all  its  members  to  have  their 
political  views  and  loyalties,  must 
maintain  the  strictest  possible  neutral- 
ity. We  have  no  intention  of  trying  to 
interfere  with  the  fullest  and  freest 
exercise  of  the  political  franchise  of 
our  members  under  and  within  our 
Constitution,  which  the  Lord  declared 
he  established  "by  the  hands  of  wise 
men  whom  [he]  raised  up  unto  this 
very  purpose"  (D&C  101:80)  and 
which,  as  to  the  principles  thereof,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  dedicating  the 


Kirtland  Temple,  prayed  should  be 
"established  forever."  (D&C  109:54.) 
The  Church  does  not  yield  any  of  its 
devotion  to  or  convictions  about  safe- 
guarding the  American  principles  and 
the  establishments  of  government 
under  federal  and  state  constitutions 
and  the  civil  rights  of  men  safeguarded 
by  these. 

Communism  greatest  threat  to  peace 
and  the  spread  of  God's  word  to  men 

The  position  of  this  Church  on  the 
subject  of  Communism  has  never 
changed.  We  consider  it  the  greatest 
satanical  threat  to  peace,  prosperity, 
and  the  spread  of  God's  work  among 
men  that  exists  on  the  face  of  the 
earth. 

In  this  connection,  we  are  con- 
tinually being  asked  to  give  our  opin- 
ion concerning  various  patriotic  groups 
or  individuals  who  are  fighting  Com- 
munism and  speaking  up  for  freedom. 
Our  immediate  concern,  however,  is 
not  with  parties,  groups,  or  persons, 
but  with  principles.  We  therefore  com- 
mend and  encourage  every  person  and 
every  group  who  is  sincerely  seeking 
to  study  Constitutional  principles  and 
awaken  a  sleeping  and  apathetic 
people  to  the  alarming  conditions  that 
are  rapidly  advancing  about  us.  We 
wish  all  of  our  citizens  throughout  the 
land  were  participating  in  some  type 
of  organized  self-education  in  order 
that  they  could  better  appreciate  what 
is  happening  and  know  what  they  can 
do  about  it. 

Citizens  should  educate  themselves 

Supporting  the  FBI,  the  police,  the 
congressional  committees  investigating 
Communism,  and  various  organizations 
that  are  attempting  to  awaken  the 
people  through  educational  means  is  a 
policy  we  warmly  endorse  for  all  our 
people. 

Communism's  atheism  and  hate 

The  entire  concept  and  philosophy 
of  Communism  is  diametrically  op- 
posed to  everything  for  which  the 
Church  stands — belief  in  Deity,  belief 
in  the  dignity  and  eternal  nature  of 
man,  and  the  application  of  the  gospel 


110 

Saturday,  April  9 

to  efforts  for  peace  in  the  world.  Com- 
munism is  militantly  atheistic  and  is 
committed  to  the  destruction  of  faith 
wherever  it  may  be  found. 

The  Russian  Commissar  of  Educa- 
tion wrote:  "We  must  hate  Christians 
and  Christianity.  Even  the  best  of 
them  must  be  considered  our  worst 
enemies.  Christian  love  is  an  obstacle 
to  the  development  of  the  revolution. 
Down  with  love  for  one's  neighbor. 
What  we  want  is  hate.  Only  then 
shall  we  conquer  the  universe." 

On  the  other  hand,  the  gospel 
teaches  the  existence  of  God  as  our 
Eternal  and  Heavenly  Father  and  de- 
clares: ".  .  .  him  only  shalt  thou  serve." 
(Matt.  4:10.) 

Communism  debases  and  destroys 

Communism  debases  the  individual 
and  makes  him  the  enslaved  tool  of 
the  state,  to  which  he  must  look  for 
sustenance  and  religion.  Communism 
destroys  man's  God-given  free  agency. 

No  member  of  this  Church  can  be 
true  to  his  faith,  nor  can  any  American 
be  loyal  to  his  trust,  while  lending  aid, 
encouragement,  or  sympathy  to  any  of 
these  false  philosophies;  for  if  he  does, 
they  will  prove  snares  to  his  feet. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

I  am  sure  we  all  appreciate  the  in- 
spiring messages  from  the  President  of 
the  Church.  In  fact  all  who  have 
spoken  tonight  have  made  a  real  con- 
tribution to  this  great  Conference. 

Many  television  and  radio  stations 
will  carry  the  Conference  proceedings 
of  Sunday  morning  to  a  nationwide 
audience,  including  Hawaii.  The  in- 
ternational radio  station,  WRUL,  will 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

broadcast  Sunday  morning's  session  to 
all  parts  of  Europe,  parts  of  Asia, 
Africa,  South  America,  Central  Amer- 
ica, Mexico  and  the  Carribean  area. 

The  CBS  radio  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  will  be  tomorrow  morning 
from  9:35  to  10  o'clock.  Those  desir- 
ing to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at 
9:15  a.m.  It  is  necessary  that  the  audi- 
ence remain  quiet  during  the  broad- 
cast. 

There  will  be  large  crowds  attending 
the  services  on  Sunday.  Please  be 
considerate  and  courteous  and  avoid 
pushing  and  crowding.  As  thousands 
leave  this  great  Priesthood  meeting  to- 
night, let  us  keep  in  mind  the  admoni- 
tion that  is  constantly  being  given  to 
drive  carefully.  Please  obey  traffic 
rules.  Courtesy  and  patience  must  be 
shown  by  drivers  in  the  city  and  on 
the  highways. 

We  wish  to  express  sincere  apprecia- 
tion to  the  Boise  Mormonaires  for  their 
contribution  tonight.  I  am  sure  many 
hours  of  preparation  have  gone  into 
the  fine  performance  they  have  given 
us,  and  we  want  them  to  know  they 
have  made  a  real  contribution,  and 
we  appreciate  it  very  much. 

They  will  now  sing  for  us,  "The 
Lord's  Prayer,"  with  Albert  D.  Fallows 
as  soloist,  after  which  the  benediction 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  Fyans, 
formerly  president  of  the  Uruguayan 
Mission,  and  we  shall  then  be  ad- 
journed until  10  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 

Selection  by  Boise  Mormonaires, 
"The  Lord's  Prayer." 

Elder  Thomas  Fyans,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Uruguayan  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 
THIRD  DAY 


111 


MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Sunday, 
April  10,  at  10:00  a.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was 
present  and  presided.  President  N. 
Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency  conducted  the 
service  at  President  McKay's  request. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir, 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie,  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  this  session.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

We  are  blessed  this  morning  having 
President  David  O.  McKay  here  with 
us  on  the  stand.  He  has  asked  me  to 
conduct  this  session.  It  is  a  great 
pleasure  indeed  for  us  to  welcome  all 
present  this  beautiful  Easter  morning 
in  the  historic  tabernacle  and  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square,  to- 
gether with  the  vast  television  and 
radio  audience  in  this  the  sixth  session 
of  the  136th  Annual  General  Confer- 
ence of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 


direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  rendering  "Gali- 
lean Easter  Carol."  Following  the 
singing  the  invocation  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Keith  W.  Wilcox,  president  of 
the  Weber  Heights  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Choir:  Galilean 
Easter  Carol." 

Invocation,  Elder  Keith  W.  Wilcox, 
president  of  Weber  Heights  Stake. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Hosanna  to  God,"  following  which 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  speak  to  us. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Hosanna  to 
God." 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  is 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Richards. 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  in  the  presence  of  our  prophet 
this  morning  and  in  being  able  this 
Easter  morning  to  commemorate  the 
resurrection  of  the  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ.  In  my  heart  I  thank  him 
for  having  restored  his  kingdom  to  the 
earth  in  our  day,  and  that  those  of  us 
who  are  assembled  here  today  have  a 
witness  through  the  Holy  Spirit  that 
the  Lord  has  established  his  Church 
in  the  earth. 

Faithfulness  of  Latter-day  Saints 

It  is  my  privilege  as  one  of  the 
General  Authorities  to  travel  to  the 


various  stakes  of  Zion  and  to  some  of 
the  missions,  and  I  always  return  with 
gratitude  in  my  heart  for  the  faith  and 
faithfulness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
evidenced  in  so  many  ways  to  prove 
their  love  of  the  Lord  and  their  desire 
to  help  build  his  kingdom  and  to  bring 
honor  and  credit  to  his  holy  name  and 
blessing  to  his  children. 

The  apostle  James  said:  ".  .  .  shew 
me  thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I 
will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works." 
(Jas.  2:18.)  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
I  am  proud  of  the  way  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  showing  their  faith  in  God 


112  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

and  their  love  for  him  by  the  works 
that  they  perform. 

The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

Now,  I  thought  in  the  few  moments 
that  I  have  to  address  you  this  morning 
that  I  would  like  to  use  for  a  text  what 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  in  an 
interview  with  the  President  of  the 
United  States  when  the  President 
asked  the  Prophet  wherein  we  differ 
in  our  religion  from  the  other  religions 
of  the  day. 

The  Prophet's  answer  was:  ".  .  .  we 
differed  in  mode  of  baptism,  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands.  We  considered  that  all 
other  considerations  were  contained  in 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  "  (Docu- 
mentary History  of  the  Church,  Vol. 
4,  p.  42.) 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  in  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel  this  promise  has  been 
given  to  all  who  enter  into  the  waters 
of  baptism  by  the  mode  that  he  has 
specified  and  that  at  the  hands  of  those 
who  have  the  authority  to  administer 
the  same  and  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  they  become  recipients  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  would  rather  have  my 
children  and  my  children's  children 
enjoy  the  companionship  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  than  any  other  companionship 
in  this  world  because  if  they  will  heed 
the  promptings  of  that  Spirit,  he  will 
lead  them  into  all  truth  and  see  them 
safely  back  into  the  presence  of  their 
Father  in  heaven.  This  statement 
by  the  Prophet  is  simply  repeating 
again,  in  a  sense,  what  the  Savior  said 
to  Nicodemus.  Remember  when  he 
said,  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God"  (John  3:5.)  and 
hence  the  importance  that  we  have  in 
this  Church  the  same  foundation  and 
the  same  power  to  guide  and  direct  us. 

"Another  Comforter" 

The  promise  of  the  Savior  to  his 
apostles  prior  to  his  crucifixion  was 
that  he  would  send  another  Comforter. 
There  isn't  time  to  go  into  the  details 
of  all  that  he  promised  that  Comforter 
would  do:  but  he  was  to  lead  them 
into  all  truth;  he  was  to  make  known 


Third  Day 

unto  them  things  present,  things  past, 
things  which  are  to  come;  he  was  to 
take  from  the  Father  and  from  the  Son 
and  reveal  it  unto  them.  And  so  the 
Savior  said: 

"And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he 
shall  give  you  another  Comforter,  that 
he  may  abide  with  you  for  ever; 

The  Spirit  of  Truth 

"Even  the  Spirit  of  truth;  whom  the 
world  cannot  receive,  because  it  seeth 
him  not,  neither  knoweth  him:  but  ye 
know  him;  for  he  dwelleth  with  you, 
and  shall  be  in  you."  (John  14:16-17.) 

I  think  one  of  the  most  positive  and 
powerful  demonstrations  of  what  this 
Holy  Spirit,  the  Comforter,  can  do  for 
a  man,  as  we  find  recorded  in  Holy 
Writ,  is  the  experience  of  the  great 
apostle  Peter.  You  remember  just  prior 
to  the  Savior's  crucifixion  Peter  said, 
"Though  all  the  world  forsake  thee,  I 
will  not  forsake  thee."  (See  Matt.  26: 
33.)  And  you  recall  the  Savior  said 
that  before  the  cock  would  crow  that 
he  would  deny  him  thrice.  But  after 
he  had  tarried  at  Jerusalem,  according 
to  the  command  of  the  Savior,  and  he 
had  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  have 
a  different  Peter.  When  he  was  com- 
manded that  he  should  no  more  preach 
Christ  and  him  crucified  in  the  streets 
of  Jerusalem,  his  answer  was,  "We 
ought  to  obey  God  rather  than  men." 
(Acts  5:29.) 

If  the  Lord  had  not  placed  in  his 
Church  of  today  his  Holy  Spirit,  we 
would  not  be  the  Church  that  we  are; 
we  could  not  have  accomplished  what 
we  have  accomplished;  the  Saints 
could  not  have  endured  all  the  priva- 
tions, hardships,  and  persecutions 
through  which  they  have  passed; 
neither  could  we  carry  on  the  great 
missionary  program  of  the  Church  as 
we  are  doing,  because  the  Lord  has 
breathed  into  his  work  the  breath  of 
life,  and  our  people  are  willing  to 
make  every  sacrifice  at  the  call  of  the 
Church  in  order  to  prove  their  love  of 
the  Lord  and  their  desire  to  build  his 
kingdom  and  to  share  the  truth  with 
their  fellowmen. 

When  the  apostles  asked  the  Savior 
for  the  signs  of  his  second  coming  and 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


113 


the  end  of  the  world,  after  declaring 
to  them  what  would  happen — that 
there  would  be  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars,  that  nation  should  rise  against 
nation  and  people  against  people,  and 
that  his  gospel  should  be  preached  in 
all  the  world  for  a  witness  to  all  na- 
tions (and  that  is  what  we  are  doing 
as  a  people  today) — the  Savior  said: 
"Then  shall  they  deliver  you  up  to  be 
afflicted,  and  shall  kill  you:  and  ye 
shall  be  hated  of  all  nations  for  my 
name's  sake."  (Matt.  24:9.)  History  has 
recorded  how  literally  that  prediction 
of  the  Savior  has  been  fulfilled  through 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  in  our 
day.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
his  brother  Hyrum,  the  patriarch,  were 
put  to  death  by  their  enemies  and 
along  with  them  hundreds  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  My  grandfather's  brother 
was  shot  down  in  cold  blood  at  the 
Haun's  Mill  Massacre,  and  our  people 
were  driven  from  pillar  to  post  until 
they  came  here  to  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  But  the  Lord  didn't  intend 
that  they  would  always  suffer  persecu- 
tion. He  told  the  Prophet  Joseph  and 
his  companions  that  he  would  give 
them  power  to  lay  the  foundation  of 
his  Church  and  that  he  would 
bring  forth  out  of  darkness  and 
obscurity  the  only  true  and  living 
Church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole 
earth,  "with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am 
well  pleased,  speaking  unto  the  church 
collectively  and  not  individually." 
(D&C  1:30.) 

I  was  very  much  intrigued  with  and 
interested  in  the  experience  that 
Brother  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  had  a  few  years 
ago  when  President  Eisenhower  called 
a  youth  conference  in  Washington  to 
which  over  7,000  delegates  came  to 
discuss  what  could  be  done  to  help  the 
young  people,  the  youth  of  this  great 
land  of  America.  Brother  Hanks  was 
asked  to  give  the  keynote  address — not 
just  to  give  a  talk  but  to  lay  the  foun- 
dation for  the  discussion  at  that  great 
convention.  When  Brother  Hanks  sat 
down,  the  man  conducting  the  conven- 
tion made  this  statement: 

"As  I  sat  here,  I  reflected  that  Mr. 
Hanks  comes  from  people  that  were 


driven  from  our  region  of  the  country 
because  of  the  things  they  believed, 
that  suffered  bitter  persecution  for 
their  ideals,  that  went  finally  to  the 
far  reaches  of  the  country  where  they 
thought  themselves  away  from  all  of 
this. 

"Now  we  have  invited  a  leader  of 
that  people  to  come  here  to  talk  to  us 
of  the  same  ideals  and  principles  for 
which  we  drove  them  away." 

Truth  travels  long 

It  takes  truth  a  long  time  to  travel. 
They  crucified  our  Lord,  but  think  of 
what  the  world  is  doing  today  in 
recognition  of  his  ministry.  And  so  this 
work  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  has 
established  in  the  earth  in  our  day  has 
been  proclaimed  by  the  prophets  that 
it  shall  never  be  thrown  down  or  given 
to  another  people,  but  it  shall  roll 
forth  until  it  shall  become  as  a  great 
mountain  and  fill  the  whole  earth. 

The  spirit  of  sacrifice 

This  spirit  of  sacrifice  is  in  the 
Church.  Notwithstanding  the  persecu- 
tions heaped  upon  our  people,  they 
continued  to  send  their  representatives, 
mostly  married  men,  into  the  mission 
field  in  the  early  days.  We  are  told 
that  after  President  Brigham  Young 
accepted  the  gospel,  for  the  next  ten 
years  he  spent  almost  his  entire  time 
in  the  mission  field,  and  when  he  went 
on  his  first  mission,  he  didn't  even 
have  an  overcoat.  He  took  a  quilt  from 
the  trundle  bed,  and  his  wife  made 
him  a  cap  out  of  a  pair  of  old  panta- 
loons. At  the  end  of  the  ten  years  he 
said  all  he  had  ever  had  as  a  reward 
for  his  service  was  the  half  of  a  small 
pig  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  divided 
with  him  and  that  had  been  given  to 
him  by  one  of  the  brethren.  What  be- 
sides the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
could  have  led  a  great  leader  like 
Brigham  Young  to  spend  ten  years 
without  any  remuneration  in  order  to 
share  with  the  world  the  wonderful 
truths  of  the  gospel?  My  grandfather, 
of  the  first  14  years  of  his  married  life, 
spent  ten  of  them  in  the  mission  field 
away  from  his  family.  In  this  Church 
today  there  are  many,  many  families 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  April  10 

in  which  there  isn't  a  male  member 
old  enough  to  go  on  a  mission  who 
hasn't  filled  a  mission.  My  grand- 
father, my  father,  my  brothers,  my 
sons,  my  wife's  father,  her  brothers — 
why!  we  are  a  missionary  people.  To- 
day we  have  over  12,000  in  the  mission 
field  at  their  own  expense  just  to  share 
the  truths  of  the  gospel  with  those  who 
know  not  what  the  Lord  has  done  in 
the  restoration  of  his  Church  to  the 
earth  in  our  day.  Among  those  there 
are  many  families  that  have  two  and 
three  missionaries  in  the  field  at  the 
same  time.  That  spirit  of  sacrifice  is 
still  in  the  Church.  Men  give  up  their 
businesses.  I  had  a  friend  of  mine  come 
in  my  office;  he  had  been  on  two 
missions.  A  married  man,  he  said, 
"Brother  Richards,  if  I  sell  my  home 
and  my  automobile  I  can  go  on  another 
mission."  He  was  willing  to  go  for  a 
third  time  and  then  come  back  and 
start  all  over  again. 

Missionary  service 

After  our  Saints  had  been  driven 
from  the  East  into  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  five  years  after  their  arrival 
here,  a  convention  was  held  in  the  old 
tabernacle  on  this  block  for  the  elders 
of  Israel  at  which  98  of  them  were 
called  to  go  on  missions.  They  were 
all  married  men.  In  those  days  they 
didn't  ask  them  if  they  wanted  to  go. 
They  were  told  in  that  meeting  that 
their  missions  would  not  be  very  long 
— that  they  would  be  separated  from 
their  families  only  from  three  to  seven 
years.  Many  of  them  were  sent  so  far 
away  that  they  couldn't  even  hear  from 
their  families  in  less  than  six  months 
time.  And  then  the  brother  in  charge, 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  said,  "If  any  of  you 
men  refuse  to  go,  there  isn't  a  wife 
that  will  remain  with  you,  because 
there  isn't  a  Mormon  woman  who 
would  live  with  a  man  a  year,  or  a 
day,  if  he  refused  to  go  on  a  mission." 
Now  that  same  spirit  carries  through 
to  this  very  day. 

Here  just  a  few  years  ago,  when  we 
were  still  letting  young  married  men 
go  on  missions,  I  interviewed  a  young 
man  for  his  mission;  and  when  I  saw 
the  recommend  from  his  bishop,  I 


Third  Day 

noted  that  he  was  a  married  man. 
I  said,  "Does  your  wife  want  you  to 
go  on  this  mission?" 

He  said,  "She  certainly  does." 

I  said,  "Why  didn't  you  bring  her 
so  I  could  ask  her?" 

He  said,  "I  couldn't;  she's  in  the 
hospital.  She  gave  birth  to  our  first 
child  this  morning." 

I  said,  "Then  let's  go  to  the  hos-  • 
pital."  We  went  to  the  hospital,  and 
there  was  that  young  wife  with  her 
little  babe  in  her  arms.  I  said,  "Do 
you  want  this  husband  of  yours  to  go 
on  a  mission?" 

She  said,  "I  certainly  do.  When  we 
married  we  decided  that  our  marriage 
would  not  stand  in  the  way  of  his 
mission.  My  parents  are  able  to  take 
care  of  me  and  our  baby  and  are 
willing  to,  and  I  want  him  to  go." 
He  filled  an  honorable  mission. 

We  go  through  the  missions,  and  we 
meet  for  hours  with  these  missionaries 
in  their  missionary  meetings  with  not 
a  dry  eye  there.  They  bear  their  testi- 
monies and  say  that  before  they  came 
on  their  missions  they  heard  mission- 
aries say  that  their  mission  was  the 
happiest  time  of  their  lives.  "We 
didn't  believe  a  word  of  it.  Now  we 
know  what  they  were  talking  about." 

I  met  a  man  up  in  the  Northwest 
who  was  a  convert  to  the  Church,  and 
he  had  just  returned  from  his  mission. 
He  said,  "I  wouldn't  take  a  check  for 
a  million  dollars  for  the  experience  of 
my  mission." 

I  interviewed  another  young  man 
there  who  had  served  several  years  in 
the  armed  forces.  He  said,  "There 
isn't  a  company  in  this  world  that 
could  offer  me  a  large  enough  salary 
to  get  me  to  leave  my  mission." 

Can  anybody  in  the  world  plant 
such  feelings  in  the  hearts  of  people 
except  through  the  testimony  of  the 
Holy  Ghost?  No  wonder  the  Prophet 
indicated  that  of  all  considerations  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  was  the  most 
important  one. 

We  see  that  in  everything  about  us. 
Take  the  Choir  here — all  these  years — 
we  don't  have  to  pay  them.  They  can't 
do  that  in  other  churches.  And  not 
only  that,  there  are  so  many  other 
things. 


ELDER  LEGB 

Tithing 

Take,  for  instance,  the  law  of  tithing, 
which  Bishop  Simpson  talked  about  the 
other  day.  While  I  was  serving  in  the 
Southern  States  Mission,  an  itinerant 
preacher  came  to  the  South  telling  the 
churches  how  they  could  get  out  of 
debt.  I  went  to  listen  to  him.  He  told 
them  that  if  they  would  pay  their 
tithing  for  ten  months,  they  could  get 
their  churches  out  of  debt.  Then  he 
quoted  the  words  of  Malachi  indicating 
that  it  was  the  Lord's  law  of  blessing 
his  people.  I  went  to  him  after  the 
meeting  and  was  introduced  to  him, 
and  I  said,  "Reverend,  I  would  like  to 
bear  you  my  testimony  that  you  are 
getting  near  the  truth.  I  am  a  Mormon 
elder.  We  have  been  paying  our  tithing 
all  our  lives.  One  thing  I  can't  under- 
stand— you  say  it  is  the  Lord's  law  of 
blessing  of  his  children.  If  it  is,  why 
don't  you  ask  them  to  pay  tithing  all 
their  lives?  If  it  would  be  good  to  be 
blessed  for  ten  months,  wouldn't  it  be 
better  to  be  blessed  all  their  lives?" 

He  said,  "Oh,  Mr.  Richards,  we  can't 
go  that  far.  If  we  can  get  them  to  pay 
for  ten  months,  we  will  do  pretty 
well." 

What  sustains  colonizing? 

Speaking  now  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  I  want  to  tell  you  another  ex- 
perience. Brother  [Melvin  J.]  Ballard 
was  up  in  the  Northwest  as  president 
of  the  mission.  In  those  days  that 
country  was  not  as  well  settled  as  it  is 
now.  A  colonizer  up  there  had  heard 
about  how  the  Mormons  were  coloniz- 
ers, how  they  had  settled  these  towns 
all  up  and  down  through  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains.  He  came  down  and 
wrote  a  brief  on  the  program  of  the 
Mormon  Church.  Then  he  went  back, 
but  he  couldn't  make  it  work,  so  he 
brought  his  brief  to  Brother  Ballard 
and  asked  him  if  he  would  read  it  and 
tell  him  what  was  the  matter  with  it. 
Brother  Ballard  read  it,  and  he  said, 
"You  have  here  a  perfect  corpse;  if 
somebody  would  just  breathe  into  it 
the  breath  of  life,  then  it  would  work 
for  you."  I  thank  the  Lord  that  he 
has  breathed  into  this  Church  the 
breath  of  life. 


ND  RICHARDS  115 

Church  service? 

We  had  a  convention  here  not  long 
ago — a  ministerial  convention.  On 
Sunday  they  took  the  ministers  to  our 
various  wards  to  attend  the  Sunday 
School.  Out  here  in  a  certain  ward 
where  they  have  about  twenty  depart- 
ments, they  took  a  particular  minister 
right  through  every  department.  On 
the  way  back  to  the  general  assembly, 
the  minister  said,  "It  must  cost  you  a 
lot  of  money  to  run  an  institution  like 
this." 

The  brother  showing  him  around 
called  the  caretaker  over  and  said, 
"Tell  this  man  how  many  are  on  the 
payroll." 

He  said,  "I  am  the  only  one.  I  keep 
the  buildings  clean."  Well,  they  just 
can't  do  it,  and  I  have  had  experiences 
with  them  to  know. 

Speaking  of  the  law  of  tithing  being 
a  law  of  blessing  of  the  people,  the 
Lord  said,  ".  .  .  and  prove  me  now 
herewith  ...  if  I  will  not  open  you 
the  windows  of  heaven.  .  .  ."  (Mai. 
3:10.) 

I  think  I  have  time  to  tell  you  one 
experience  of  when  I  was  on  a  mission 
back  in  the  Eastern  States.  One  of  our 
branch  presidents  was  a  large  tithe 
payer — paid  every  month  as  regular  as 
the  clock  ticked — and  I  said  to  him, 
"You  must  have  a  wonderful  testimony 
of  the  law  of  tithing." 

He  said,  "I  have." 

I  said,  "Would  you  tell  me  what 
it  is?" 

He  told  me  that  his  wife  and  chil- 
dren joined  the  Church  over  in 
England  a  few  years  before  that;  and 
when  he  told  me  who  the  missionary 
was,  I  learned  it  was  an  old  MIA 
teacher  of  mine  from  out  in  Tooele. 
Then  he  said,  "I  didn't  join  the 
Church,  because  I  didn't  have  the  faith 
to  pay  my  tithing.  Then  one  day  a 
young  missionary  who  was  being  re- 
leased came  to  me  and  said,  'Brother 

 ,  I  want  to  baptize  you  before  I 

go  home!'  I  told  him,  'You  can't.' 

"Why  can't  I?" 

"Because  I  haven't  the  faith  to  pay 
my  tithing." 

And  then  that  missionary  said,  "If 
you  will  let  me  baptize  you  before  I 


116  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

go  home,  I  promise  you  that  within  a 
year  from  now  you  will  be  in  America 
with  your  family,  earning  three  times 
what  you  are  earning  now." 

He  said,  "That's  a  good  enough 
promise  for  me."  And  he  was  baptized. 
He  said  that  he  didn't  see  how  it 
could  happen — he  was  under  contract 
with  his  company  to  work  for  three 
years,  and  he  knew  he  wouldn't  break 
his  contract.  But  he  was  able  to  have 
his  contract  bought  off,  and  the  com- 
pany released  him.  Within  one  year 
he  was  in  America  with  his  family, 
earning  four  times  as  much  as  he  was 
when  that  Mormon  missionary  prom- 
ised him  three  times  as  much.  I  told 
that  story  a  few  years  ago  from  this 
pulpit.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  one 
of  the  mission  presidents  sitting  right 
down  in  front  came  up  to  me  and  said, 
"Brother  Richards,  I  was  the  young 
man  who  made  the  promise." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  say  to  you  that 
if  you  will  love  the  Lord  and  serve 
him  and  keep  his  commandments,  you 
never  can  get  out  of  the  red — you  will 
always  be  owing  the  Lord  something. 
He  has  a  way  of  paying  and  compen- 
sating that  is  worth  more  than  all  the 


Third  Day 

wealth  of  this  world.  And  this  is  my 
testimony  to  you.  I  know  this  is  the 
work  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father.  I 
know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  I  am  so  proud  to  be  one  of 
his  witnesses.  I  leave  you  my  witness 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
favor  us  with  "Rejoice  and  Merry  Be." 
Following  the  singing  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown  of  the  First  Presidency  will  ad- 
dress us. 


Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Rejoice  and 
Merry  Be." 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Many  of  the  speakers  during  this 
conference  have  referred  to  the  cele- 
bration of  Easter  and  the  resurrection 
of  the  Lord.  Yesterday  the  President 
of  the  Church  preached  a  powerful 
sermon  on  the  fact  of  the  resurrection 
of  Christ.  This  morning  we  join  with 
millions  of  people  throughout  the 
world  in  celebrating  Easter  in  com- 
memoration of  this  miraculous  event. 
This  is  a  time  when  we  should  re- 
examine and  reaffirm  our  faith  and 
rededicate  our  lives  to  Christ's  service. 

The  scriptures  testify  of  Him 

His  birth  into  mortality  and  the  de- 
tails of  his  death  and  resurrection  are 
well-attested  facts  of  history.  In  addi- 
tion to  the  New  Testament  story  of 
these  miraculous  events,  the  scriptures, 


both  old  and  new,  abound  with  in- 
spired predictions  concerning  his  sec- 
ond coming. 

Let  us  examine  the  basis  of  our  faith 
as  it  is  to  be  found  in  the  Holy  Bible 
and  other  sacred  records  and  attempt 
to  evaluate  and  coordinate  the  ante- 
mortal,  the  mortal,  and  the  postmortal 
life  of  this  transcendent  personage. 

The  Apostle  John  tells  us  that  the 
Word — which  he  identifies  as  the 
Savior — was  with  God  in  the  begin- 
ning. This  is  a  precise  and  unam- 
biguous declaration,  not  only  that  he 
was  with  God  in  the  beginning,  but 
that  he  himself  was  invested  with  the 
powers  and  rank  of  godship  and  that 
he  came  into  the  world  and  dwelt 
among  men.  He  was  the  Creator  of 
all  that  is. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


117 


Jesus  himself  frequently  referred  to 
the  fact  of  his  preexistence.  For  ex- 
ample, he  said,  "For  I  came  down  from 
heaven,  not  to  do  mine  own  will,  but 
the  will  of  him  that  sent  me."  (John 
6:38.) 

And  then  in  that  greatest  of  all 
prayers,  recorded  in  John  17:5,  we  find 
the  poignant  plea:  "And  now,  O 
Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine 
own  self  with  the  glory  which  I  had 
with  thee  before  the  world  was." 

At  another  time  he  chidingly  spoke 
to  his  uncomprehending  followers  and 
said:  "Doth  this  offend  you? 

"What  and  if  ye  shall  see  the  Son 
of  man  ascend  up  where  he  was 
before?"  (John  6:61-62.) 

These  and  other  proofs  of  Christ's 
preexistence  confirm  our  faith  that  all 
men  had  a  spiritual  existence  before 
mortal  birth  and  that  the  souls  of  all 
men  are  immortal.  Obviously,  if  the 
spirit  had  an  existence  before  the  body 
was  created,  that  spirit  is  capable  of 
independent  existence  after  the  body 
dies. 

Assurance  of  the  resurrection 

The  fact  that  he  came  forth  from 
the  tomb  with  spirit  and  body  reunited 
was  positively  stated  and  demonstrated 
by  the  risen  Lord  when  he  appeared 
to  his  amazed  apostles  and  said,  ".  .  . 
handle  me,  and  see;  for  a  spirit  hath 
not  flesh  and  hones,  as  ye  see  me 
have."  (Luke  24:39.) 

This  gives  divine  assurance  that  we 
too,  through  his  atoning  sacrifice,  shall 
partake  of  the  blessings  of  the  resur- 
rection. Hearken  to  his  promise  when 
he  said, 

"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life: 
he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  .  .  ."  (John 
11:25-26.) 

And  again,  "For  God  so  loved  the 
world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten 
Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlast- 
ing life."  (John  3:16.) 

Though  some  deny,  we  affirm 
His  divinity 

In  these  times  of  uncertainty,  con- 


flict, chaos,  and  confusion,  where  there 
is  unprovoked  aggression,  attempted 
subjugation,  and  enslavement,  when 
people  are  being  denied  their  freedom 
and  their  liberties,  and  especially 
when  whole  nations  of  men,  including 
some  of  the  clergy,  pride  themselves 
on  their  atheism,  deny  the  existence  of 
God,  speak  of  Christ  as  a  myth  and  of 
religion  as  an  opiate,  when  increasing 
numbers  of  men  are  declaring  that 
God  is  dead  and  others  are  asking 
whether  he  in  fact  ever  lived — in  times 
like  these  we  must  reexamine  and  re- 
emphasize  our  faith  in  Jesus  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  and  conform  our  lives 
to  his  teachings  and  emulate  his 
matchless  example. 

Indicative  of  the  lack  of  faith,  the 
confused  and  muddled  thinking,  and 
the  dangerous  teachings  of  some  re- 
ligious leaders,  I  quote  from  the  Feb- 
ruary 22,  1966,  issue  of  Look  magazine 
(pp.  25-29): 

"Last  September,  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Bishop  of  California  left  on 
sabbatical  for  Cambridge  University  in 
England  'to  find  out  what  I  really  do 
believe.'  .  .  . 

"What  he  believes  is  hardly  typical 
of  a  bishop.  'I've  jettisoned  the  Trinity, 
the  Virgin  Birth  and  the  Incarnation,' 
he  told  Look  in  his  Cambridge  flat 
recently.  ... 

"The  inquiry  has  inevitably  led  the 
Bishop  to  the  enigma  of  Christ  Him- 
self. He  sees  Him  not  as  Jesus  among 
the  lilies  in  a  stained-glass  window, 
but  as  a  country  carpenter  turned 
itinerant  preacher  for  three  powerful 
years.  .  .  . 

"Cambridge  University,  where  [thel 
Bishop  ...  is  staying,  is  the  womb  of 
what  has  been  proclaimed — and  con- 
demned— as  the  'new  theology.'  ...  Its 
innovators,  mainly  Cambridge  dons, 
are  reacting  to  a  society  throttled  by 
secularism.  Only  ten  percent  of  the 
English  attend  church.  .  .  . 

"  'The  old  theology  starts  with  the 
divinity  of  Christ  and  tries  to  explain 
how  God  became  man.  The  new 
theology  starts  with  the  only  indisput- 
able fact — that  Christ  was  man — and 
tries  to  show  how  God  acted  through 
Him  uniquely.' " 

We  reaffirm  our  faith  in  the  Bible 


118  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

as  the  word  of  God.  We  believe  in  its 
teachings,  its  doctrines,  its  definitions, 
and  its  revelations  of  an  omnipotent, 
omnipresent,  and  omniscient  God.  The 
fact  that  man  was  created  in  his 
image  confirms  our  faith  that  he  is  a 
living  and  personal  God.  He  is  our 
Eternal  Father,  the  God  of  Abraham, 
Isaac,  and  Jacob,  the  Jehovah  of  the 
Old  Testament,  and  the  promised 
Messiah. 

We  proclaim  the  preexistence  and 
divine  nature  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  the 
purpose  of  his  earth  life,  the  reality  of 
his  resurrection  and  ascension,  and  the 
certainty  of  his  second  coming  as  eter- 
nal and  well-attested  truths  and 
prophetic  promises.  They  have  illu- 
minating and  inspiring  significance  for 
our  troubled  world.  They  are  our 
heritage  from  the  Judeo-Christian 
world,  clarified  and  amplified  by  mod- 
ern revelation. 

They  are  relevant  to  our  time.  This 
is  an  age  of  conflict  of  ideology,  a  time 
of  ferment  in  technology,  a  period  of 
startling  and  revolutionary  progress  in 
science — an  era  when  at  last  the  means 
lie  at  hand  to  free  mankind  from  the 
ancient  shackles  of  pain  and  hunger, 
fear  and  war.  But  the  true  crisis  of 
our  times  lies  at  a  deeper  level.  All 
this  freedom  and  so-called  elbowroom 
only  thrusts  upon  us  with  additional 
force  the  fundamental  issues  of  our 
faith. 

The  Fatherhood  of  God, 
Godhood  of  Christ, 
Brotherhood  of  Man, 
we  affirm 

There  must  be  a  reaffirmation  of  the 
truths  concerning  the  fatherhood  of 
God,  the  godhood  of  Christ,  and  the 
brotherhood  of  man — truths  for  which 
the  Savior  lived  and  died.  Brotherhood 
— love  of  God  and  fellowmen — will 
make  men  free  and  establish  peace  in 
a  world  that  is  threatened  with  a 
devastating  and  final  war. 

The  truculent  and  blasphemous  at- 
tempts of  the  Communists  to  erase 
Christ  from  their  literature  and  to 
expunge  all  memory  of  him  from  the 
hearts  and  minds  of  men  must  fail, 
for  as  God  made  man  in  his  own 


Third  Day 

image,  so  his  image  is  indelibly 
stamped  upon  the  souls  of  men,  and 
instinctively  they  know  that  they  are 
the  immortal  sons  of  God,  predestined 
to  be  free.  This  inborn  conviction 
accounts  for  the  courageous  and  undis- 
courageable  resiliency  of  many  perse- 
cuted people. 

The  challenge  of  evil  leading 
inevitably  to  chaos,  confusion,  and 
defeat  tends  to  make  the  relevance  of 
Christ's  life  and  message  more  ap- 
parent, the  application  of  his  divine 
teachings  more  urgent,  and  eventual 
victory  beyond  question. 

As  Paul  said,  the  time  would  come 
when  "every  knee  should  bow  .  .  . 

"And  that  every  tongue  should  con- 
fess that  Jesus  Christ  is  Lord,  to  the 
glory  of  God  the  Father."  (Phil. 
2:10-11.) 

Prophecy  and  history  testify 

A  comprehensive  knowledge  of 
prophecy  (which  is  but  history  fore- 
told) and  of  history  (which  is  often 
prophecy  fulfilled)  confirms  the  fact 
that  God  lives.  From  Genesis  to 
Revelation,  the  Bible  contains  the 
continuing  story  of  God's  dealings  with 
his  universal  family,  his  begotten 
children. 

Christ  came  to  earth  and  glorified 
the  Father,  finished  the  work  that  was 
given  him  to  do,  and  at  the  end  asked 
only  that  he  be  glorified  with  the 
Father  with  the  glory  that  he  had 
with  him  before  the  world  was.  (John 
17:3-5.) 

Christians  everywhere  should  be- 
lieve and  be  guided  by  the  revelations 
of  God  given  through  his  prophets, 
whether  on  the  eastern  hemisphere  or 
in  the  western  world.  The  peoples  in 
the  western  world  are  they  to  whom 
he  referred  as  "other  sheep  I  have, 
which  are  not  of  this  fold:  them  also 
I  must  bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my 
voice;  and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and 
one  shepherd."  (John  10:16.) 

The  United  States  of  America  and 
her  allies  have  been  forced  to  take  up 
arms  in  defense  of  liberty  and  freedom. 
The  scriptures,  both  ancient  and  mod- 
ern, justify  defending  the  liberties  and 
freedom  of  ourselves  and  our  weaker 
neighbors. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


119 


The  various  presidents  of  the  United 
States,  regardless  of  party,  have  de- 
clared that  we  have  no  desire  for 
territorial  gain  or  acquisition  nor  the 
subjugation  of  weaker  nations.  We 
stand  for  freedom  and  liberty  for  all, 
together  with  the  right  of  untrammeled 
self-determination — all  in  the  interest 
of  permanent  world  peace. 

The  President  of  the  United  States 
recently  restated  and  underlined  this 
policy  and  disclaimed  any  intent  on 
the  part  of  the  United  States  to  gain 
empire,  bases,  or  dominion.  This  is  in 
strict  harmony  with  the  word  of  God 
given  to  ancient  prophets,  some  of 
whom  were  kings,  generals,  and  leaders 
of  armies. 

We  concur  in  what  was  said  by 
one  of  them  on  the  subject  of  freedom, 
as  recorded  in  Alma  61:14: 

"Therefore,  ...  let  us  resist  evil,  and 
whatsoever  evil  we  cannot  resist  with 
our  words,  yea,  such  as  rebellions  and 
dissensions,  let  us  resist  them  with  our 
swords,  that  we  may  retain  our  free- 
dom, that  we  may  rejoice  in  .  .  .  the 
cause  of  our  Redeemer  and  our  God." 

Universality  of  God's  care 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches 
the  universality  of  God's  concern  for 
men  and  that  obedience  is  a  universal 
and  fundamental  law  of  progress,  both 
temporal  and  spiritual.  The  aristoc- 
racy of  righteousness  is  the  only 
aristocracy  that  God  recognizes.  This 
leaves  no  room  for  self-righteous  ex- 
pressions in  words  or  actions  of  being 
"holier  than  thou."  There  is  a  real 
unity  in  the  human  race,  and  all  men 
have  a  right  to  equal  consideration  as 
human  beings,  regardless  of  their  race, 
creed,  or  color. 

For  any  church,  country,  nation,  or 
other  group  to  believe  that  it  is  the 
only  people  in  whom  God  is  interested 
or  that  it  has  special  merit  because  of 
color,  race,  or  belief,  that  they  are  in- 
herently superior  and  loved  by  God, 
without  regard  to  the  lives  they  live, 
is  not  only  a  great  and  dangerous 
fallacy  but  is  a  continuing  barrier  to 
peace.  This  is  demoralizing,  whether 
it  is  the  exploded  and  presumptuous 
myth  of  an  Aryan  race  of  supermen  or 
disguised  in  more  subtle  forms.  Let  us 


steadfastly  avoid  such  demoralizing 
arrogance. 

The  most  important  problem  facing 
us  in  working  out  a  long-range 
program  for  peace  is  a  tolerant  and 
sympathetic  understanding  between 
races  and  creeds.  As  Thomas  Bracken 
wrote: 

"O  God,  that  men  would  see  a  little 
clearer, 

Or  judge  less  harshly  where  they  can- 
not see! 

O  God,  that  men  would  draw  a  little 
nearer 

To  one  another!  They'd  be  nearer 

Thee, 
And  understood." 

("Not  Understood.  We  Move  Along 
Asunder,"  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 
[1927],  No.  352.) 

It  is  regrettable  that  very  few  people 
in  the  world  are  free  from  the  idea 
that  they  and  their  people  and  race  are 
superior.  The  people  on  this  continent 
were  instructed  that  they  should  not 
hiss  nor  spurn  nor  make  game  of  any 
remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel,  "for 
behold,  the  Lord  remembereth  his 
covenant  unto  them,  and  he  will  do 
unto  them  according  to  that  which 
he  hath  sworn."  (3  Nephi  29:8.) 

We  have  fought  two  world  wars 
and  numerous  other  engagements  to 
secure  freedom  and  self-determination 
for  ourselves  and  others,  and  yet  we 
know  the  same  old  satanic  forces  are 
at  work  to  destroy  the  peace  and  pros- 
perity of  the  human  family.  We  can- 
not have  peace  in  the  world  until  we 
have  tolerance  and  understanding.  The 
happiness  we  seek  can  only  be  found 
in  righteousness,  for  wickedness  never 
was  happiness.  There  is  no  leger- 
demain method  of  getting  blessings. 

We  are  reminded  by  one  of  the 
prophets  that  if  men  die  in  their 
wickedness,  they  will  be  cast  off  as 
to  things  that  are  spiritual  and  must 
be  brought  to  stand  before  God  to  be 
judged  of  their  works.  If  their  works 
have  been  filthiness,  they  must  be 
filthy,  and  if  they  be  filthy,  it  must 
be  that  they  cannot  dwell  in  the 
kingdom  of  God;  there  cannot  be  any 


120  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

unclean  thing  enter  into  that  king- 
dom. (1  Ne.  15:33-34.) 

Christ  will  come  again 

Having  briefly  considered  then  his 
preexistence,  his  mortal  birth,  his 
transcendent  ministry,  his  crucifixion 
and  miraculous  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion, let  us  look  to  the  future:  is  his 
work  finished  or  is  he  still  active  and 
interested  in  the  affairs  of  men?  will 
he  appear  again  on  this  earth? 

The  scriptures  are  replete  with  pre- 
dictions and  warnings  concerning  this 
event,  but  time  will  permit  us  to  refer 
to  but  few  of  them. 

Job  said,  "For  I  know  that  my  re- 
deemer liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand 
at  the  latter  day  upon  the  earth.  .  .  ." 
(Job  19:25.) 

And  Isaiah  promises,  ".  .  .  behold, 
your  God  will  come  with  vengeance, 
even  God  with  a  recompense;  he  will 
come  and  save  you."  (Isa.  35.4.) 

In  Malachi  we  read,  "Behold,  I  will 
send  my  messenger,  and  he  shall  pre- 
pare the  way  before  me:  and  the  Lord, 
whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come 
to  his  temple.  .  .  ."  (Mai.  3:1.) 

We  find  many  references  to  his  sec- 
ond coming  in  the  New  Testament. 
Near  Bethany,  at  the  time  of  the 
ascension  of  the  Lord,  a  prediction  was 
made  by  the  angel:  "Ye  men  of  Gal- 
lilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into 
heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken 
up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so 
come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen 
him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

In  Matthew  25:31  we  read,  "When 
the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in  his  glory, 
and  all  the  holy  angels  with  him,  then 
shall  he  sit  upon  the  throne  of  his 
glory.  .  .  ." 

Luke  tells  us  that  great  events  shall 
precede  his  coming:  "Nation  shall  rise 
against  nation,  and  kingdom  against 
kingdom: 

"Men's  hearts  [shall  fail]  them  for 
fear,  and  for  looking  after  those  things 
which  are  coming  on  the  earth:  for 
the  powers  of  heaven  shall  be  shaken. 

"And  then  shall  they  see  the  Son 
of  man  coming  in  a  cloud  with  power 
and  great  glory."  (Luke  21:10,  26-27.) 

And  the  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  in 


Third  Day 

Thessalonians  4:16,  "For  the  Lord 
himself  shall  descend  from  heaven 
with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of  the 
archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God: 
and  the  dead  in  Christ  shall  rise 
first  

The  Savior  himself  on  many  occa- 
sions predicted  his  return  to  earth.  In 
Matthew  16:27  we  read,  "For  the  Son 
of  man  shall  come  in  the  glory  of  his 
Father  with  his  angels;  and  then  he 
shall  reward  every  man  according  to 
his  works." 

After  referring  to  the  signs  that 
would  precede  his  coming,  he  said, 
"And  then  shall  appear  the  sign  of  the 
Son  of  man  in  heaven:  and  then  shall 
all  the  tribes  of  the  earth  mourn,  and 
they  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  coming 
in  the  clouds  of  heaven  with  power 
and  great  glory."  (Matt.  24:30.) 

We  humbly,  but  without  any  equiv- 
ocation, add  our  own  witness  to  the 
testimonies  of  the  apostles  and  prophets 
of  old  that  God  is  not  dead  but  is 
gloriously  alive,  and  that  Jesus  Christ 
not  only  did  live,  but  that  he  still 
lives,  that  he  is  a  personal  being,  that 
he  will  triumphantly  come  again  with 
his  resurrected,  glorified  body  still 
bearing  the  marks  of  the  crucifixion. 

We  humbly  repeat  what  we  often 
sing:  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives! 
He  lives,  all  glory  to  his  name!  He 
lives,  my  Savior  still  the  same;  O  sweet 
the  joy  this  sentence  gives:  'I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  lives!' "  to  which 
I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

He  who  has  just  addressed  us  is 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congre- 
gation will  now  join  in  singing  "Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salva- 
tion," with  Richard  P.  Condie  conduct- 
ing and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ,  following  which  we  shall  have 
a  brief  organ  interlude. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang, 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of 
Salvation." 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


121 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

For  the  benefit  of  the  television  and 
radio  audience  who  have  just  joined 
us,  we  again  announce  that  we  are 
gathered  in  the  historic  tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in 


the  sixth  session  of  the  136th  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Paul 
H.  Dunn  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

Elder  Dunn. 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  and 
I  include  all  who  listen  in  that  saluta- 
tion, I  have  been  moved  by  the  testi- 
monies and  the  witnesses  that  have 
borne  evidence  again  these  past  days 
and  this  morning  to  me  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  the  gospel.  I  am  grateful 
for  this  opportunity  to  declare  to  you 
the  inner  feelings  of  my  heart.  It 
was  just  a  few  days  ago  that  my  little 
six-year-old  daughter,  Kellie,  came 
rushing  up  to  me  and,  throwing  her- 
self into  my  arms  with  all  the  exuber- 
ance that  only  youth  can  display,  she 
said,  "Daddy,  did  you  know  it  is  only 
three  more  days  until  Easter?"  I  as- 
sured her  that  I  did.  Then  she,  with  an 
anxious  look,  wanted  to  know  just  what 
it  all  meant,  and  so  we  took  a  moment 
to  visit.  We  talked  about  the  eternal 
things  that  have  been  so  prominent  in 
this  conference.  As  we  discussed  the 
eternal  verities  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  on  a  six-year-old  plane,  I  com- 
menced to  think  about  the  real  mean- 
ing of  Easter,  as  we  do  on  these 
occasions.  It  reminded  me  of  the  de- 
lightful poem  that  Grace  Daniels  has 
recorded  for  us.   Let  me  share  it  with 


you: 


"EASTER  IS  COMING" 


"  'Easter  is  coming,'  I  said  to  a  boy, 

A  wee,  little  lad,  by  the  way; 

His  eyes  were  bright  and  he  smiled 

with  delight 
As  he  quickly  looked  up  from  his  play. 
'Oh,  yes,  I  know  Easter,  for  that  is  the 

time 

When  the  bunny  brings  eggs  red  and 
blue, 


And  inside  they're  just  like  what  old 

chickie  lays, 
But  some  are  real  candy,  too.' 

"  'Easter  is  coming,'  I  said  to  a  maid, 
With  brown  eyes  and  shining  brown 
hair. 

I  looked  in  her  eyes  and  not  with  sur- 
prise 

Saw  the  dreamlight  of  youth  resting 
there. 

'Yes,  I  know  it  is  coming,'  she  shyly 

replied, 
'And  if  you  never  will  tell, 
There's  a  wedding  that  day  and  I'm 

going  away 
To  a  dear  little  home  on  the  hill.' 

"  'Easter  is  coming,'  I  said  to  a  man, 
To  whom  middle-age  brought  no  re- 
prieve. 

His  silvering  hair  told  of  worry  and 
care, 

And  his  voice  held  a  note  of  peeve. 
'Don't  talk  about  Easter,  that's  all  I 
can  hear, 

Easter  hats,  Easter  gowns,  Easter  shoes, 
And  for  ruffles  and  frills,  old  Dad  pays 
the  bills, 

Do  you  wonder  I'm  down  with  the 
blues?' 

"  'Easter  is  coming,'  I  said  to  a  man 
With  bent  form  and  beard  white  as 
snow. 

His  dim  eyes  grew  bright  with  a  won- 
der light 

And  his  withered  old  face  was  aglow. 
'Ah,  friend,  'tis  a  message  I  fain  would 

proclaim 
To  striving  humanity. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


122 

Saturday,  April  9 

To  me  it  means  life,  resurrection  of 
youth, 

To  endure  through  eternity.' 

"I  pondered  their  answers  for  many  a 
day, 

For  each  with  its  meaning  was  fraught, 
And  each  one  so  different,  yet,  right  in 
its  way, 

But  what  was  the  answer  I  sought? 
Must  pleasure  come  foremost,  whatever 
the  cost, 

While  life,  youth,  and  love  have  their 
day? 

And  must  the  true  meaning  of  Easter 
be  lost 

Till  we  come  to  the  end  of  the  way? 

"As  springtime  approaches  with  beck- 
oning hands 

And  the  promise  of  things  'born  anew,' 

And  Easter  draws  near  with  its  myriad 
of  plans, 

Just  what  does  it  mean  to  you?" 

I  am  sure  to  many  of  us  it  means 
new  clothes,  perhaps  a  vacation  from 
school,  spring  at  last,  or  the  beginning 
of  baseball  season.  These  are  all  quite 
wonderful  and  vital  to  us,  but  they 
are  not  the  real  reasons  we  celebrate 
Easter. 

Just  a  few  weeks  ago  I  stood  beside 
the  casket  of  a  very  close  friend  who 
had  been  taken  in  the  prime  of  his 
life,  leaving  a  young  widow  and  four 
tiny  children.  And  as  we  stood  in 
that  sacred  room  while  the  family  said 
their  last  goodbyes,  my,  it  tugged  at 
my  heartstrings  to  watch  a  little  four- 
year-old  boy  slip  his  hand  into  that  of 
his  mother  and,  wistfully  looking  up 
at  her,  ask  the  question,  "Mama,  will 
we  ever  see  Daddy  again?"  I  am  sure 
this  scene  has  been  repeated  many 
times  throughout  all  the  world,  be- 
cause death  brings  us  face  to  face 
with  the  question  of  the  ages.  To 
quote  Job  as  we  frequently  do  at  this 
time  of  the  year,  "If  a  man  die,  shall 
he  live  again?"  (Job  14:14.) 

Hope  for  the  future 

It  was  just  21  years  ago  on  another 
Easter  morning  when  a  great  armada 
of  ships  assembled  in  the  bay  off  the 
island  of  Okinawa.    And  on  that 


Second  Day 

Easter  morn  as  I  looked  upon  the  faces 
of  those  who  were  to  take  the  beach, 
one  of  the  great,  great  questions  of  all 
the  ages  seemed  again  to  be  registered 
by  those  men.  "What  hope  is  there  in 
the  future?" 

The  answer  came  to  me,  I  believe, 
in  the  midst  of  one  of  my  darkest 
hours.  As  I  pushed  ashore  with  my 
buddies,  I  crawled  a  few  feet  into  the 
sand,  and  there  I  found  a  young 
soldier  in  the  last  moment  of  this  life. 
I  didn't  know  his  name,  nor  could  I 
tell  you  to  which  faith  he  belonged. 
As  I  tried  to  give  him  a  little  bit  of 
comfort,  his  last  words  were  these: 
"Out  of  this  filth,  death,  destruction, 
will  come  a  new  world  and  a  new 
way  of  life."  In  the  face  of  what 
seemed  to  be  his  defeat,  he  saw  the 
real  victory.  And  almost  in  a  providen- 
tial way,  just  a  few  yards  from  where 
he  lay  was  a  patch  of  Easter  lilies, 
signifying  to  those  who  would  observe 
the  new  birth  and  the  new  way  of  life. 
It  was  later  I  discovered  that  Okinawa 
was  the  Easter  lily  capital  of  the 
Orient. 

It  is  when  we  encounter  experiences 
such  as  these  that  questions  are  often 
raised  that  one  wants  to  know,  and 
rightly  so:  How  can  we  know  the 
reality  of  the  resurrection?  Is  it  true? 
One  of  the  great  educators  of  our 
Church,  Dr.  Lowell  Bennion,  has  listed 
for  us  four  ways  by  which  we  can  come 
to  know  truth  or  reality.  First,  he  says, 
by  accepting  it  on  the  authority  of 
someone  else;  second,  by  thinking; 
third,  by  experiencing;  and  fourth,  by 
feeling,  which  we  in  this  Church 
would  call  inspiration  or  revelation. 

Let  me  just  discuss  for  a  moment 
each  of  these  channels  by  which  we 
come  to  know. 

Authority 

First,  authority.  There  was  a  time 
when  a  prodigious  mind,  such  as  that 
of  Aristotle  and  Herbert  Spencer,  could 
survey  the  entire  field  of  human 
knowledge  and  draw  conclusions.  But 
with  the  great  accumulation  of  knowl- 
edge that  has  been  derived  through 
specialization,  no  single  person  can 
grasp  all  of  the  learning  that  is  now 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


123 


available  to  mankind.  For  this  reason 
man  is  compelled  to  rely  upon  the 
experience  or  authority  of  others  for 
some  of  his  information.  Each  of  us 
turns  to  the  doctor,  the  dentist,  the 
lawyer,  the  teacher,  the  mechanic,  the 
spiritual  leaders,  and  many  other 
persons  for  guidance  in  particular 
problems.  The  student  of  chemistry, 
for  example,  does  not  begin  from 
scratch  to  rely  upon  his  own  experi- 
ence. He  uses  the  efforts  of  the 
teacher,  the  text,  the  reference  book, 
and  other  sources  of  authority.  To 
bypass  such  a  vast  accumulation  of 
knowledge  would  be  folly  indeed. 

Likewise,  in  religion  we  have  pre- 
served for  us  the  sayings  and  teachings 
and  testimonies  of  Moses,  of  Amos,  of 
Paul;  of  Alma  in  the  Book  of  Mormon; 
of  Joseph  Smith  in  his  life  and  teach- 
ings; and  of  course,  of  the  Christ. 
These  were  not  persons  who  were 
eccentric,  but  individuals  who  were 
significant  in  stature,  living  in  real-life 
situations,  claiming  wisdom  from  God, 
and  bearing  personal  testimony  that 
these  things  that  are  recorded  in  our 
scriptures  are  indeed  true.  They  too 
deserve  an  honest  hearing. 

Reason 

Second,  reason  or  thinking.  In  man's 
search  for  truth,  the  mind  plays  a 
leading  role.  Man,  as  a  child  of  God, 
was  created  in  the  image  of  his  Heav- 
enly Father,  the  glory  of  whose 
intelligence  is  reflected  in  the  beauty 
and  orderliness  of  the  universe.  Why 
should  man,  God's  child  living  in  his 
world,  not  trust  his  own  mind  and  use 
it  earnestly  as  one  avenue  by  which  he 
can  come  to  know  the  truth  about 
reality — in  this  case,  the  resurrection? 

The  mind  has  the  ability  to  weave 
the  separate  experiences  of  life  into 
larger  and  more  unified  views.  Each 
day  the  mind  is  bombarded  with 
numerous  ideas,  impressions,  percep- 
tions, and  feelings  from  without  and 
from  within.  These  enter  the  mind  in 
a  disorganized  and  miscellaneous 
fashion,  but  the  human  mind  has  the 
ability  to  bring  a  measure  of  order  out 
of  chaos  by  establishing  meaningful 
relationships  among  phenomena  that 
it  experiences. 


However,  reason  alone  is  not  a  suf- 
ficient guide  to  truth.  For,  as  Goethe 
has  said,  "Human  life  divided  by  rea- 
son leaves  a  remainder."  Through 
reason  alone  one  cannot  choose  a 
mate,  find  God,  or  determine  all 
things  of  greatest  value. 

Experience 

Third,  experience.  One  of  the  most 
trustworthy  avenues  to  truth  lies  along 
the  path  of  experience.  Each  of  us  has 
a  rich  amount  of  it,  for  it  is  common 
to  all.  In  the  affairs  of  everyday  life, 
we  learn  to  trust  experience.  We  learn 
sweetness  by  taste,  softness  by  touch, 
colors  by  sight,  and  joy  and  sorrow, 
love  and  hate  directly  in  life  situations. 
There  is  no  substitute  for  experience, 
and  without  it  we  cannot  know  the 
truth. 

Two  types  of  experience  have  been 
described:  that  which  is  based  on 
science  and  its  discoveries  and  that 
which  is  common  to  all  of  us  in  every- 
day life.  The  latter,  which  is  a  non- 
scientific  experience,  is  just  as  real  and 
may  also  be  a  valid  source  of  knowl- 
edge, but  it  is  often  either  more 
general  or  more  unique  and,  therefore, 
somewhat  more  difficult  to  communi- 
cate to  others. 

Experiences  of  this  type  play  an 
important  role  in  religion.  Many 
religious  principles  can  be  practiced 
and  experienced  in  everyday  life.  The 
validity  of  religion  does  not  rest  on 
faith  alone.  We  feel  and  observe  the 
effects  of  selfishness,  greed,  lust,  and 
hate.  We  also  observe  and  feel  the 
opposite  effects  of  unselfishness,  gen- 
erosity, purity  of  heart,  and  love.  Faith 
and  repentance  and  forgiveness  are  not 
abstract  principles  but  are  real  parts  of 
life.  Prayer  and  worship  are  religious 
experiences  for  those  who  participate 
in  them  with  faith. 

Revelation 

And  finally,  revelation.  Despite  the 
great  emphasis  on  reason  and  the 
experience  of  science,  inspiration  (or 
intuition,  as  some  have  preferred  to 
define  it)  also  plays  a  very  important 
role  in  discovering  truth.  Scientists 
have  testified  that  some  of  their  most 


124  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  9 

profound  insights  have  come  to  them, 
not  in  the  labored  process  of  logical 
thought,  but  as  unexpected,  unpre- 
meditated hunches,  possibly  as  flashes 
from  the  imagination,  the  subconscious 
mind,  or  even  from  God.  They,  too, 
recognize  inspiration  as  a  source  of 
knowledge. 

Revelation  is  communication  from 
God  to  man.  It  is  another  avenue  to 
truth,  to  a  correct  knowledge  of  reality. 
Revelation  includes  all  the  other 
avenues. 

A  prophet  is  not  without  experience 
in  human  life,  for  he  lives  among  men 
and  with  himself.  He  is  not  insensitive 
to  good  and  evil,  right  and  wrong,  joy 
and  sorrow,  life  and  death.  Questions 
and  problems  come  to  his  mind.  He 
thinks,  he  reflects,  and  he  searches  for 
the  answers;  and  then — and  this  step 
is  distinctive  in  the  life  of  a  prophet — 
he  turns  to  God  in  humility  and  faith. 
When  the  answer  comes,  it  is  usually 
not  in  an  audible  tone,  although  it 
can  be  and  often  has  been  in  both 
former  and  latter  days,  but  more  often 
it  comes  through  the  "still,  small 
voice"  of  the  Comforter.  This  Com- 
forter, the  Spirit  of  Truth,  clarifies  the 
mind  of  the  prophet  and  causes  his 
bosom  to  burn  within  him  so  that  he 
knows  the  will  of  God.  Then  he  de- 
clares it  to  man.  The  testimony  or 
reality  of  these  things  can  be  the  per- 
sonal experience  of  every  honest, 
seeking  individual  in  the  world. 
Through  these  channels  man  has  come 
to  know  the  reality  of  Christ's  life, 


Second  Day 

divine  mission,  death,  and  eventual 
resurrection. 

"If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again" 

In  answer  to  the  questions:  "If  a 
man  die,  shall  he  live  again?"  and 
"What  hope  is  there  for  the  future?" 
I  summarize  the  words  of  our  prophet, 
seer,  and  revelator,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  who  spoke  yesterday: 

To  sincere  believers  in  Christianity, 
to  all  who  accept  Christ  as  their 
Savior,  his  resurrection  is  not  a  symbol 
but  a  reality.  As  Christ  lived  after 
death,  so  shall  all  men,  each  taking 
his  place  in  the  next  world  for  which 
he  has  best  fitted  himself.  With  this 
assurance,  obedience  to  eternal  law 
should  be  a  joy,  not  a  burden,  for 
compliance  with  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  brings  happiness  and  peace. 
"He  is  not  here,"  said  a  witness  many 
years  ago,  "but  is  risen."  (Luke  24:6.) 
Because  Christ  does  live,  so  shall  we. 
And  then  President  McKay  bore  his 
sacred  witness  to  that  effect. 

And  I  would  like  to  declare  to 
President  McKay  and  to  all  of  you  this 
day  that  I  too  know  that  my  Redeemer 
lives,  and  I  give  you  that  witness  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Paul  H.  Dunn  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Alvin 
R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Dyer. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


This  morning  I  shall  speak  of  him 
whom  we  honor  this  [Easter]  day  and 
always,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
known  to  his  contemporaries  as  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  and  the  Son  of  the  carpen- 
ter. He  taught  the  true  meaning  and 
purpose  of  life,  which  led  Paul  to  say: 
"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in 
Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most  miser- 
able." (1  Cor.  15:19.) 


Jesus  Christ,  subject  of  controversy 

The  story  of  the  birth  and  life  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  now  accepted 
almost  universally  by  all  mankind.  But 
the  power  and  efficacy  of  his  earth-life 
existence  and  the  purpose  of  it  are 
subjects  of  controversy,  also  univer- 
sally. Even  within  the  realms  of  a 
Christendom  there  exists  a  vast  canyon 
of  variance  as  to  who  he  is,  the  purpose 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


125 


of  his  mission,  and  the  meaning  of  life 
that  he  propounded. 

In  the  eyes  of  many  of  his  contem- 
poraries he  was  a  disturber,  an  inciter 
to  political  division.  We  have  this 
from  Pundit  Nehru,  the  Indian  leader, 
and  I  quote: 

"Jesus  talked  a  strange  language  of 
revolt  against  existing  conditions  and 
the  social  order.  In  particular  he  was 
against  the  rich  and  the  hypocrites  who 
made  of  religion  a  matter  of  certain 
observances  and  ceremonial.  Instead  of 
promising  wealth  and  glory,  he  asked 
people  to  give  up  even  what  they  had 
for  a  vague  and  mythical  Kingdom  of 
Heaven.  He  talked  in  stories  and 
parables,  but  it  is  clear  that  he  was  a 
born  rebel  who  could  not  tolerate 
existing  conditions  and  was  out  to 
change  them.  This  was  not  what  the 
Jews  wanted,  and  so  most  of  them 
turned  against  him  and  handed  him 
over  to  the  Roman  authorities." 
(Glimpses  of  World  History  [New 
York:  The  John  Day  Company,  1942], 
p.  85.) 

But  to  the  humble  and  sincere  who 
believed  his  message,  he  was  wor- 
shiped and  loved. 

We  who  are  here  today  have  a  firm 
conviction  of  the  true  purpose  of  his 
mission  and  life. 

On  the  way  to  Emmaus 

In  our  hearts  we  feel  much  the  same 
as  the  two  who  walked  unbeknown  to 
them  with  the  resurrected  Christ, 
Cleopas  and  another,  who,  while 
walking  to  Emmaus  at  the  time  of  the 
resurrection,  were  discussing  Jesus  as 
they  journeyed.  The  Master  joined 
them  and  opened  the  scriptures  to 
their  eyes.  Impressed,  they  asked  him 
to  tarry  with  them  as  they  stopped 
to  be  refreshed. 

Not  knowing  that  he  was  the  resur- 
rected Christ,  they  asked  further  ques- 
tions but  did  not  understand  his 
answers.  But  they  talked  together 
concerning  the  events  of  the  past  days 
that  had  greatly  disturbed  the  area 
around  about.  The  Christ  also  asked 
them  questions,  and  alarmed  at  his 
questions  Cleopas  said: 

"Art  thou  only  a  stranger  in  Jeru- 


salem, and  hast  not  known  the  things 
which  are  come  to  pass  there  in  these 
days? 

"And  [Jesus]  said  unto  them,  What 
things?  And  they  said  unto  him, 
Concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which 
was  a  prophet  mighty  in  deed  and 
word  before  God  and  all  the  people." 
(Luke  24:18-19.) 

Then  said  they:  We  had  supposed 
him  to  be  the  one  to  redeem  our 
people,  but  now  he  is  gone,  having 
been  turned  over  to  the  high  priests. 
Yet  they  said  it  has  been  three  days, 
and  we  wonder.  Still,  a  woman  among 
us  has  been  to  the  grave,  and  he  is  not 
there.  Others  of  us  have  also  been  to 
the  sepulcher,  and  we  found  him  not. 
What  does  it  all  mean? 

Then  said  Jesus  unto  them,  "O  fools, 
and  slow  of  heart  to  believe.  .  .  ." 

Later  their  eyes  were  open  and  they 
knew  him,  but  he  had  vanished.  Said 
they:  "Did  not  our  heart  burn  within 
us,  while  he  talked  with  us  by  the 
way  .  .  .  ?"  (Luke  24:25,  32.) 

As  we  contemplate  his  life  and  mis- 
sion, our  hearts  burn  within  us,  for  we 
know  that  he  lives. 

He  is  Redeemer,  of  mankind 

He  is  Christ  the  Lord,  the  Redeemer 
of  mankind,  who  according  to  the  plan 
wrought  the  atonement,  which  made 
possible  the  redemption  of  the  soul  in 
all  its  glorified  implications.  We  be- 
lieve and  know  him  to  be  divine,  the 
Son  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
who  himself  being  a  separate  and  dis- 
tinct personage  also  is  a  God.  This  is 
abundantly  attested  to  in  the  holy 
scriptures  and  by  direct  and  divine 
manifestation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

There  are  many  who  will  deny  his 
divinity  and  ascribe  unto  him  the  rank 
of  teacher  and  perhaps  prophet.  Many 
there  are  of  his  professed  disciples,  who 
speak  from  the  pulpits  that  bear  his 
name,  who  turn  away  when  challenged 
as  to  the  actuality  of  his  divinity. 

His  disciples  honor  Him 

The  weakening  trends  of  faith  in 
Christ  today  are  the  same  as  in  the 
time  of  test  when  he  ministered  among 


126  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

men  upon  the  earth.  He  taught  them 
in  the  hills  of  Judea  and  on  the  shores 
of  Galilee;  he  satisfied  them  with 
miracles  and  fed  them  with  loaves  and 
fishes.  The  multitude  followed  him 
everywhere  he  went,  but  when  the 
time  came  for  him  to  tell  them  of  his 
divine  mission  and  that  he  was  the  Son 
of  God,  they  turned  from  him  and 
walked  no  more  with  him.  Accept  him 
as  a  teacher  and  a  provider  of  both 
physical  and  spiritual  food?  Yes! 
Acknowledge  him  as  the  Son  of  God 
and  divine?  No,  this  they  could  not  do, 
and  they  turned  away  from  him. 

Others  criticize  Him 

What  of  Christ  today?  Nearly  2,000 
years  have  passed  since  his  glorifica- 
tion. Men  ignore  the  purpose  and  the 
meaning  of  existence  for  which  he  gave 
his  life,  yet  will  give  credence  to  the 
exhumed  doctrines  of  the  madman 
Nietzsche  and  the  immoralist  Plato, 
who  taught  that  God  is  dead  and  that 
man  drifts  in  an  endless  nothingness, 
that  mankind  generally  has  no  spiri- 
tual contact  with  God  the  Father  and 
his  glorified  Son.  These  live  in  the 
shadows  of  confusion,  without  a  sense 
of  reference  or  a  cause  for  being.  Here 
are  the  soul  cries  of  some  of  these  men: 

"Until  a  man  figures  out  the  trap 
and  hunts  .  .  .  the  ultimate  ground  of 
being,"  ponders  one,  "he  has  no  reason 
at  all  for  his  existence.  Empty,  finite, 
he  knows  only  that  he  will  soon  die. 
Since  this  life  has  no  meaning,  and  he 
sees  no  future  life,  he  is  not  really  a 
person  but  a  victim  of  self  extinction." 

Another  has  exclaimed:  "How  long 
can  man  bear  emptiness?"  Still 
another:  "Here  is  what  frightens  me. 
To  see  the  sense  of  life  dissipated.  To 
see  our  reason  for  existence  disappear. 
That  is  what  is  intolerable.  Men  can- 
not live  without  meaning."  (Look, 
July  27,  1963,  p.  19.)  And  from  still 
another:  "When  I  consider  the  short 
duration  of  my  life,  swallowed  up  in 
eternity  before  and  after,  the  little 
space  I  fill,  and  even  can  see,  engulfed 
in  the  infinite  immensity  of  space  of 
which  I  am  ignorant,  and  which  knows 
me  not,  I  am  frightened,  and  am  as- 
tonished being  here  rather  than  there, 
why  now  rather  than  then." 


Third  Day 

Universal  questions 

The  immensity  of  the  universe  and 
man's  relationship  to  time  and  eternity 
cause  him  to  ask  over  and  over  again: 
Who  am  I?  Where  did  I  come  from? 
What  is  my  destiny?  Why  should  man 
come  into  mortal  existence  and  then 
fade  and  die? 

The  way  to  eternal  life 

The  answer  to  this  is  that  the  way 
to  eternal  life  is  in  the  knowledge  of 
God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  hath 
sent.  Heeding  not  this  eternal  truth, 
men  are  groping  in  darkness.  The  way 
out  of  the  shadows  into  the  light  is  in 
the  revealed  wisdom  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  communicated  unto  the 
spirit  of  man.  But  he  must  respond  to 
this  unmistakable  truth  of  eternal  life 
by  the  innate  power  within  himself. 

Exposed  to  the  truth  in  this  manner, 
he  will  see  and  feel  his  life  calibrated 
to  eternal  existence  and  will  thus  be 
in  the  way  of  joy  and  perfection; 
herein  lies  the  true  meaning  of  the 
resurrection  of  the  Christ,  who  as  the 
pattern  for  all  men  proclaimed,  "I  am 
the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life:  no 
man  cometh  unto  the  Father,  but  by 
me."  (John  14:6.) 

Revelation  needed 

Concerning  a  fullness  of  joy  obtained 
through  resurrection,  the  Lord  revealed 
this  thought  to  Joseph  Smith:  "For 
man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal 
[meaning  the  natural  body] ,  and  spirit 
and  element,  inseparably  connected 
[as  in  resurrection],  receive  a  fulness 
of  joy."  (D&C  93:33.) 

But  it  is  impossible  for  man,  as  man, 
devoid  of  revelation  from  God  to  un- 
derstand the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 
Jacob,  a  righteous  son  of  the  prophet 
Lehi,  declared:  ".  .  .  great  and  marvel- 
ous are  the  works  of  the  Lord.  How 
unsearchable  are  the  depths  of  the 
mysteries  of  him;  and  it  is  impossible 
that  man  should  find  out  all  his  ways. 
And  no  man  knoweth  of  his  ways  save 
it  be  revealed  unto  him.  .  .  ."  (Jac. 
4:8.) 

Without  divine  communication  man 
stands  confused  about  his  own  exis- 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


127 


tence.  He  is  faced  with  many  con- 
flicting concepts  of  the  meaning  of 
life  and  of  his  destiny,  or  no  meaning 
and  destiny  at  all!  To  find  the  way 
to  an  understanding  of  himself,  man 
must,  as  a  beginning,  rely  upon  normal 
innate  instincts.  This  inner  force  is 
personal;  it  is  instinctive.  But  he  must 
be  consciously  aware  of  what  this 
power  can  do  for  him  as  he  responds 
to  the  forces  of  good  and  the  teachings 
of  truth  for  which  the  Christ  sacrificed 
his  life. 

The  great  French  philosopher  and 
teacher  Du  Nouy  spoke  with  inspiration 
when  he  said  the  most  effective  path 
that  can  eventually  lead  to  the  com- 
prehension of  man  is  revelation.  This 
"direct  road,"  says  he,  ".  .  .  is  closed 
to  a  great  many  people  and  indepen- 
dent of  rational  thought.  Those  who 
can  make  use  of  it  are  fortunate." 
(Human  Destiny  [New  York:  Long- 
mans, Green  and  Co.,  1947],  p.  3.)  But 
make  use  of  it  he  must  if  he  is  to  find 
God  and  the  meaning  of  life. 

Scientific,  religious,  and  educational 
thought  that  is  bent  on  revising  and 
supposedly  amplifying  man's  knowl- 
edge and  that  does  not  keep  alive  the 
fundamental  concept  of  the  eternal 
nature  of  God  and  his  Beloved  Son 
and  their  relationship  to  man  in 
eternity  creates  only  secular  concepts 
and  mere  rationalization.  Such  indoc- 
trination imposes  false  direction,  re- 
tarding man's  natural  response  to  the 
truth. 

The  Holy  Ghost 

But  man  may  know  of  the  eternal 
truths  of  redemption  made  effectual  by 
the  atoning  sacrifice  of  the  Son  of  God. 
Concerning  this  the  Apostle  Paul  de- 
clared: 

"But  as  it  is  written,  Eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  en- 
tered into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things 
which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him. 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto 
us  by  his  Spirit:  for  the  Spirit  searcheth 
all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things 
of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 


is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God. 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the 
spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  spirit  which 
is  of  God;  that  we  might  know  the 
things  that  are  freely  given  to  us  of 
God. 

"Which  things  also  we  speak,  not 
in  the  words  which  man's  wisdom 
teacheth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost 
teacheth;  comparing  spiritual  things 
with  spiritual. 

"But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God:  for 
they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither 
can  he  know  them,  because  they  are 
spiritually  discerned."  (1  Cor.  2:9-14.) 

In  conclusion,  in  these  times  of  stress 
a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  might  well  be  repeated  with 
significant  meaning: 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my 
church,  to  whom  the  kingdom  has 
been  given;  hearken  ye  and  give  ear 
to  him  who  laid  the  foundation  of  the 
earth,  who  made  the  heavens  and  all 
the  hosts  thereof,  and  by  whom  all 
things  were  made  which  live,  and 
move,  and  have  a  being. 

"And  again  I  say,  hearken  unto  my 
voice,  lest  death  shall  overtake  you;  in 
an  hour  when  ye  think  not  the  summer 
shall  be  past,  and  the  harvest  ended, 
and  your  souls  not  saved. 

"Listen  to  him  who  is  the  advocate 
with  the  Father,  who  is  pleading  your 
cause  before  him."  (D&G  45:1-3.) 

It  is  my  sincere  conviction  that  God 
has  literally  spoken  unto  a  prophet  at 
this  crucial  time  in  our  world's  history. 
The  truth  has  been  restored.  Each  must 
stand  the  burden  of  his  own  blame  if 
he  does  not  take  advantage  of  the  re- 
vealed knowledge  about  God  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  author  of 
the  plan  of  salvation  that  gives  to 
mankind  the  purpose  and  meaning  of 
life  and  of  man's  eternal  destiny.  The 
heralds  of  truth  representing  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  restored 
to  earth  are  this  day  among  the  nations 
of  mankind  throughout  the  world 
declaring  this  message.  To  this  I  tes- 
tify in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  10 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude  we 
shall  hear  from  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


Third  Day 

Organ  interlude  by  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 

Elder  Benson. 


ELDER  EZR. 

Of  the  Council  of 

Humbly  I  approach  this  sacred 
assignment  on  this  glorious  Easter 
Sunday. 

Today  as  a  great  Christian  nation — 
a  nation  with  a  spiritual  foundation — 
we  join  the  Christian  world  in  com- 
memoration of  that  all-important  and 
glorious  event — the  resurrection  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Testimony  of  Jesus  Christ 

I  bear  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
the  very  Son  of  God. 

He  was  born  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem. 

He  lived  and  ministered  among  men. 

He  was  crucified  on  Calvary. 

He  is  risen — really  resurrected. 

He  has  appeared  to  men  as  a  glori- 
fied Eternal  King — in  Palestine  and 
also  in  America. 

I  bear  this  witness  to  all,  but  direct 
my  remarks  today  especially  to  our 
youth  of  the  free  world  for  whom  I 
have  great  hope  and  a  fervent  prayer. 

My  text,  from  Luke  in  the  New 
Testament,  stands  out  boldly  in  its 
impressive  beauty.  It  covers  a  period 
of  18  years  following  the  return  of 
Jesus  from  Jerusalem  to  Nazareth. 
Except  for  this  one  rich  sentence  of 
greatest  import,  the  scriptures  for  this 
18-year  period  are  silent: 

"And  Jesus  increased  in  wisdom  and 
stature,  and  in  favour  with  God  and 
man."  (Luke  2:52.) 

Here  then  in  one  sentence — 14  words 
— is  the  impressive,  meaningful,  and 
comprehensive  account  of  18  years  of 
preparation  of  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the  world. 


T.  BENSON 

e  Twelve  Apostles 

From  these  impressively  simple 
words  of  Luke  we  can  well  take  in- 
spiration for  this  hour: 

"And  Jesus  increased  in  wisdom  and 
stature,  and  in  favour  with  God  and 
man." 

Here  in  broad  outline,  in  one  suc- 
cinct sentence — four  points — are  given 
the  major  fields  of  man's  activity  and 
striving — mental,  physical,  spiritual, 
and  social. 

People;  all-important 

Young  men  and  women,  remember, 
it  is  people — not  things — that  are  all- 
important.  Character  is  the  one  thing 
we  make  in  this  world  and  take  with 
us  into  the  next.  God's  purpose  is  to 
build  people  of  character,  not  physical 
monuments  to  their  material  accumu- 
lations. 

Point  1:  "And  Jesus  increased  in 
wisdom.  .  .  ." 

In  the  14th  chapter  of  John,  Jesus  is 
tenderly  saying  his  farewell  to  his 
disciples  after  the  last  supper.  He  tells 
them  that  he  goes  to  prepare  a  place 
for  them  in  his  Father's  house;  that 
where  he  is,  they  also  may  be.  And 
Thomas  says  to  him: 

"Lord,  we  know  not  whither  thou 
goest;  and  how  can  we  know  the  way? 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  am  the  way, 
the  truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh 
unto  the  Father,  but  by  me."  (John 
14:5-6.)  The  road  lies  before  us.  It  is 
clearly  marked. 

Wisdom  and  understanding 

In  Proverbs  we  read:  "Happy  is  the 
man  that  findeth  wisdom,  and  the  man 


ELDER  EZRA 

that  getteth  understanding."  (Prov. 
3:13.) 

This  same  Jesus  who  increased  in 
wisdom  declared  to  a  modern  prophet: 
"Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom, 
and  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall 
be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall 
you  be  rich."  (D&G  6:7.) 

It  was  once  thought,  and  still  is  in 
some  places,  that  when  a  young  man 
sets  out  upon  a  quest  for  academic 
knowledge,  his  faith  in  God  would 
soon  be  destroyed.  Our  youth  generally 
are  living  proof  to  the  contrary.  It  is 
not  the  search  for  knowledge — nor 
knowledge  itself — that  costs  a  man  his 
faith.  It  is  rather  the  conceit  of  small 
minds  proving  anew  that  a  little 
knowledge  can  be  a  dangerous  thing. 
It  is  intellectual  pride  that  leads  one 
to  think  he  is  self-sufficient  in  matters 
of  mind  and  of  spirit.  Let  us  ever 
realize  the  vast  difference  that  exists 
between  discovery  of  the  truth  and  the 
custodian  of  all  truth.  The  one  is 
human;  the  other  is  divine. 

Truth  through  religion  and  science 

Religion  and  science  have  sometimes 
been  in  apparent  conflict.  Yet  the  con- 
flict should  only  be  apparent,  not  real, 
for  science  should  seek  truth,  and  true 
religion  is  truth.  There  can  never  be 
conflict  between  revealed  religion  and 
scientific  fact.  That  they  have  often 
occupied  different  fields  of  truth  is  a 
mere  detail.  The  gospel  accepts  and 
embraces  all  truth;  science  is  slowly 
expanding  her  arms  and  reaching  into 
the  invisible  domain  in  search  of  truth. 
The  two  are  meeting  daily — science  as 
a  child,  revealed  religion  as  the 
mother.  Truth  is  truth,  whether  labeled 
science  or  religion.  There  can  be  no 
conflict.  Time  is  on  the  side  of  truth — 
for  truth  is  eternal. 

Yes,  truth  is  always  consistent, 
whether  it  is  revealed  direct  from  God 
to  man  through  his  inspired  prophets 
or  comes  from  the  laboratory  through 
the  diligent  searching  of  his  children 
and  the  influence  of  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  upon  them. 

Youth  of  the  free  nations,  you  face  a 
changing  world  beset  with  many  per- 
plexities. But  while  change  is  and  will 


TAFT  BENSON  129 

continue  to  be  all  about  us  in  the 
physical  world,  we  must  recognize  that 
there  are  certain  heaven-sent  verities, 
principles,  and  values  that  are  eternal. 
These  never  change. 

As  you  travel  life's  highway,  you 
will  encounter  theories,  proposals,  and 
programs  that  have  wide  appeal.  You 
will  be  required  to  pass  your  judgment 
on  them.  Be  not  misled.  Remember 
that  ideas  and  theories  are  either  sound 
or  unsound;  soundness  does  not  depend 
upon  which  men  hold  them. 

Our  inability  to  explain  a  thing  in 
terms  of  our  materialism  does  not 
disprove  its  reality. 

"Opinions  at  variance  with  time- 
honored  beliefs,  although  receiving 
considerable  current  acceptance,  may 
not  always  rest  on  truth."  It  is  the 
truth  that  endures.  It  is  the  truth  that 
makes  men  courageous  enough  to  be- 
come Christlike.  It  is  the  truth  that 
makes  men  and  nations  free.  Yes,  be 
intelligent.  Intelligence  is  the  wise  and 
judicious  use  of  knowledge. 

Continue  to  grow  mentally — to  grow 
in  wisdom — to  grow  in  truth.  Desire  itl 
Pray  for  it!  Study  it!  Practice  it! 

Do  all  this  and  you  will  find  truth; 
it  cannot  be  denied  you.  Having  found 
it,  never  forget  its  source,  remembering 
always  that  "the  glory  of  God  is  in- 
telligence, or,  in  other  words,  light  and 
truth."  (D&C  93:36.) 

"And  Jesus  increased  in  wisdom. 
.  .  ."  Like  the  master,  in  whose  foot- 
steps you  should  follow,  may  you  con- 
stantly increase  in  wisdom. 

Gain  stature 

Point  2:  "And  Jesus  increased  in 
.  .  .  stature.  .  .  ." 

You,  the  youth  of  the  free  world,  are 
the  trustees  of  posterity.  The  future  of 
your  country  will,  sooner  than  you 
think,  rest  in  your  hands  and  those  of 
your  contemporaries. 

Be  worthy  trustees.  Continue  to  grow 
in  stature. 

Be  cheerful  in  all  that  you  do.  Live 
joyfully.  Live  happily.  Live  enthusias- 
tically, knowing  that  God  does  not 
dwell  in  gloom  and  melancholy,  but  in 
light  and  love. 


130  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

A  clean  mind  in  a  healthy  body  will 
enable  you  to  render  far  more  effective 
service  to  others.  It  will  help  you  to 
provide  more  vigorous  leadership.  It 
will  give  your  every  experience  in  life 
more  zest  and  meaning.  Robust  health 
is  a  noble  and  worthwhile  attainment. 

Possibly  the  best  measure  of  the 
stature  of  men  or  women  is  in  their 
own  homes,  at  their  own  firesides. 
Some  of  you  have  already  established 
homes.  Practically  all  of  you  will  do 
so.  As  you  look  hopefully  forward, 
what  conclusions  have  you  reached 
about  marriage,  the  home,  and  family? 

Are  you  planning  for  honorable 
parenthood  even  at  the  sacrifice  per- 
haps of  parties,  clubs,  and  other  social 
enticements?  Parenthood  carries  with  it 
peculiar  responsibilities.  Are  you  plan- 
ning to  accept  these  without  quibbling? 
Are  you  willing  to  accept  and  enthrone 
motherhood  as  the  highest  calling  of 
woman? 

No  nation  rises  above  its  homes.  In 
building  character  the  church,  the 
school,  and  even  the  nation  stand 
helpless  when  confronted  with  a  weak- 
ened and  degraded  home.  The  good 
home  is  the  rock  foundation — the 
cornerstone  of  civilization.  There  can 
be  no  genuine  happiness  separate  and 
apart  from  a  good  home,  with  the  old- 
fashioned  virtues  at  its  base.  If  your 
nation  is  to  endure,  the  home  must  be 
safeguarded,  strengthened,  and  restored 
to  its  rightful  importance. 

Remember  that  moral  purity  is  an 
eternal  principle.  Its  violation  destroys 
the  noblest  qualities  and  aspirations  of 
man.  Purity  is  life-giving;  unchastity 
is  deadly. 

Moral  purity  is  one  of  the  greatest 
bulwarks  of  successful  homemaking. 
Happy  and  successful  homes — let  alone 
individual  lives — cannot  be  built  on 
immorality. 

Youthful  sweethearts,  be  true  to 
God's  holy  laws.  Remember  they  can- 
not be  broken  with  impunity.  If  you 
would  be  happy  and  successful  in  your 
early  association,  courtship,  and  home- 
building,  conform  your  lives  to  the 
eternal  laws  of  heaven.  There  is  no 
other  way. 

And  in  so  doing  you  shall  increase 
"in  stature." 


Third  Day 

Favor  with  God  and  man 

Point  3:  "And  Jesus  increased  ...  in 
favour  with  .  .  .  man." 

The  formula  for  successful  relation- 
ships with  others  boils  down  to  that 
divine  code  known  as  the  Golden  Rule: 

"Therefore  all  things  whatsoever  ye 
would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do 
ye  even  so  to  them.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  7:12.) 

It  was  the  Master  who  said: 

".  .  .  whosoever  will  be  chief  among 
you,  let  him  be  your  servant."  (Matt. 
20:27.) 

Unselfish,  willing  service  to  others 
was  the  keynote  of  his  relationship 
with  men. 

"For  even  the  Son  of  man  came  not 
to  be  ministered  unto,  but  to  minister, 
and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for 
many."  (Mark  10:45.) 

Love  one  another.  Serve  your  fellow- 
men.  The  example  has  been  given  you. 
The  road  lies  clearly  before  you. 

If  we  would  serve  God  through 
service  to  our  brethren,  we  shall  have 
need  of  a  love  for  work. 

Energetic,  purposeful  work  leads  to 
vigorous  health,  praiseworthy  achieve- 
ment, a  clear  conscience,  and  refresh- 
ing sleep.  It  has  always  been  a  boon 
to  man.  Have  a  wholesome  respect  for 
labor,  whether  with  head,  heart,  or 
hand.  Accept  the  challenge  given  by 
one  of  America's  eminent  journalists, 
Edward  W.  Bok: 

Vigorous  participation 

"When  you  are  called  to  get  into  the 
game,  get  into  it  good  and  strong. 
There's  no  fun  in  going  through  life 
spoon-fed;  in  finding  the  soft  seat. 
That  makes  a  man  soft,  and  a  soft  man 
is  an  abomination  before  God  and 
man.  And  put  everything  you've  got 
into  it.  Take  hold  and  carry  the  biggest 
load  your  shoulders  can  carry,  and 
then  carry  it  right.  Set  the  pace  for 
others;  don't  let  them  set  it  for  you." 

Honest  toil 

May  you  ever  enjoy  the  satisfaction 
of  honest  toil.  The  decree  that  by  the 
sweat  of  his  brow  man  should  eat 
bread  is  still  basic.  You  will  never  wish 
or  dream  yourself  into  heaven.  You 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


131 


must  pay  the  price  in  toil,  in  sacrifice, 
and  in  righteous  living. 

It  is  a  truism  that  "security  is 
achieved,  not  bestowed."  It  cannot  be 
gained  by  self-pity  or  compromising 
principles.  The  world  owes  no  man  a 
living. 

Youth  of  the  world,  as  you  strive  to 
increase  in  favor  with  man,  be  ever  on 
your  guard  that  you  do  not  unwittingly, 
in  the  name  of  tolerance,  broadminded- 
ness,  and  so-called  liberalism,  en- 
courage foreign  "isms"  and  unsound 
theories  that  strike  at  the  very  root  of 
all  we  hold  dear,  including  our  faith 
in  God.  Proposals  will  be  offered  and 
programs  will  be  sponsored  that  have 
wide,  so-called  "humanitarian"  appeal. 
Attractive  labels  are  usually  attached 
to  the  most  dangerous  programs,  often 
in  the  name  of  public  welfare  and 
personal  security. 

Apply  standard  of  truth 

Have  the  courage  to  apply  this 
standard  of  truth.  Determine  what  the 
effect  of  the  various  issues  at  stake  is 
upon  the  character,  the  integrity,  and 
freedom  of  man.  Which  increase  his 
freedom?  Which  abrogate  or  destroy? 
Which  recognize  and  respect  the 
individual  dignity  of  man? 

We  have  the  greatest  material 
wealth  ever  known  because  we  are  free, 
and  our  people  have  been  encouraged 
to  produce  it — out  of  themselves. 

It  is  foolish  to  place  our  material 
wealth  first  and  decide  that  it,  rather 
than  the  freedom  and  energy  that  pro- 
duced it,  is  our  real  wealth. 

Freedom,  a  willingness  to  work,  and 
the  desire  to  serve  your  God  through 
service  to  your  fellowmen — these  are 
the  sources  of  true  wealth.  Cling  fast 
to  these  truths,  and  you  must  inevitably 
increase  in  favor  with  man.  "And  Jesus 
increased  ...  in  favour  .  .  .  with  man." 

Point  4:  "And  Jesus  increased  ...  in 
favour  with  God.  .  .  ." 

Seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  God 

This  is  the  most  important  of  all 
man's  strivings — without  it,  nothing  is 
of  the  slightest  account. 

"For  what  shall  it  profit  a  man,  if 


he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul?"  (Mark  8:36.) 

Growing  in  favor  with  God  is  the 
most  important  because  it  is  the 
veritable  foundation  upon  which  all 
other  worthwhile  blessings  rest.  Con- 
cerning this  fact  the  Savior  admonished 
his  disciples: 

".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Matt.  6:33.) 

Spiritual  strength  promotes  posi- 
tive thinking,  positive  ideals,  positive 
habits,  positive  attitudes,  and  posi- 
tive efforts.  These  are  the  qualities  that 
promote  wisdom,  physical  and  mental 
well-being,  and  enthusiastic  acceptance 
and  response  by  others.  "Favour  with 
God"  gives  necessary  incentive  and 
perspective  to  life.  It  gives  man  real 
purpose  for  living  and  achieving. 

As  always,  we  have  the  example  of 
the  Master  to  guide  us.  "My  meat,"  he 
said,  "is  to  do  the  will  of  him  that  sent 
me  "  (John  4:34.) 

And  again:  "Father,  ...  I  have 
glorified  thee  on  the  earth:  I  have  fin- 
ished the  work  which  thou  gavest  me 
to  do."  (John  17:1,  4.) 

Faithful  in  duty 

We  increase  in  favor  with  God  as 
we  do  the  will  of  God.  Let  us  be  faith- 
ful in  the  work  he  gives  us,  whatever 
it  may  be  and  whatever  our  station  in 
life.  Let  our  desires  be  in  harmony 
with  God's  will  as  it  is  revealed  to  us 
— keeping  his  word  in  our  hearts — 
conquering  selfish  desires  that  would 
lead  us  astray. 

If  we  would  advance  in  holiness — 
increase  in  favor  with  God — nothing 
can  take  the  place  of  prayer.  And  so  I 
adjure  you  to  give  prayer — daily  prayer 
— secret  prayer — a  foremost  place  in 
your  lives.  Let  no  day  pass  without  it. 
Communion  with  the  Almighty  has 
been  a  source  of  strength,  inspiration, 
and  enlightenment  to  men  and  women 
through  the  world's  history  who  have 
shaped  the  destinies  of  individuals  and 
nations  for  good. 

Will  you  value  and  take  advantage 
of  the  opportunity  to  tap  these  unseen 
but  very  real  spiritual  powers?  Will 


132 

Sunday,  April  10 

you,  with  Lincoln  before  Gettysburg 
and  Washington  at  Valley  Forge, 
humble  yourselves  before  Almighty 
God  in  fervent  prayer? 

Prayer  will  help  you  understand  the 
apparent  conflicts  in  life — to  know  that 
God  lives,  that  life  is  eternal. 

Be  not  ashamed  to  believe  and  pro- 
claim that  God  lives,  that  he  is  the 
Father  of  our  spirits;  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world; 
that  the  resurrection  is  a  reality;  that 
we  lived  as  spirits  before  mortal  birth 
and  will  live  again  as  immortal  beings 
through  the  eternities  to  come.  Blessed 
are  you  if  you  have  a  testimony  of 
these  things.  These  great  spiritual 
truths  have  seen  systems  come  and  go, 
and  so  it  will  be  in  the  future.  These 
truths  will,  if  you  are  wise,  take  prece- 
dence in  your  lives  over  all  contrary 
theories,  dogmas,  or  hypotheses  from 
whatever  source  or  by  whomsoever 
advocated. 

Therefore,  go  forward  intelligently 
and  yield  simple  and  loyal  obedience 
to  all  the  laws  of  the  universe  and  the 
truths  of  eternity. 

Yours  is  a  great  responsibility  in  this 
day  when  the  need  for  courageous 
leadership  is  so  urgent: 

You  can  become  those  leaders! 

Young  men  and  women  of  the  Free 
World,  yours  is  a  great  challenge.  You 
can  be  choice  spirits  in  your  land.  For- 
get not  that  each  of  you  has  been 
endowed  with  the  priceless  gift  of  free 
agency.  Each  of  you  is,  in  very  deed, 
the  master  of  your  fate,  and  Christ 
should  be  the  captain  of  your  soul. 
You  need  not  be  the  victims  of  circum- 
stance, for  unto  you  it  is  given  to 
achieve  and  become  "perfect,  even  as 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.) 

Jesus  lives  today.  He  is  risen.  This 
I  know. 

"And  Jesus  increased  in  wisdom  and 
stature,  and  in  favour  with  God  and 
man." 

May  you,  by  following  this  same 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

path,  merit  the  same  commendation. 
For  if  you  follow  this  divine  pattern 
established  by  the  resurrected  Christ, 
you  cannot  fail,  for  you  will  have  ful- 
filled the  measure  of  your  creation. 

Yes,  Jesus  Christ  is  divine.  He  lives 
today.  He  was  resurrected.  He  is  the 
Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world. 

I  bear  this  witness  and  pray  that  the 
young  men  and  women  of  all  the 
world  may  be  blessed  with  a  testimony 
of  this  all-important  truth,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

We  express  our  thanks  and  appre- 
ciation to  the  Choir  for  their  inspira- 
tional singing.  We  are  grateful  for 
the  warm  response  from  the  managers 
and  operators  of  the  many  television 
and  radio  stations  in  offering  their 
facilities  as  a  public  service  to  make 
the  proceedings  of  this  conference 
available  to  millions  throughout  North 
America,  South  America,  Africa  and 
many  other  parts  of  the  world. 

We  shall  now  conclude  this  sixth 
session  of  the  136th  annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  with  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  singing  "For  the  Trumpet  Shall 
Sound,"  with  Talmadge  D.  Robinson 
as  soloist.  Richard  P.  Condie  is  con- 
ducting and  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ. 

Following  the  singing  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  pronounced  by  Elder  Jack 
S.  Daley,  president  of  the  St.  Joseph 
Stake.  This  conference  will  then  be 
adjourned  until  2:00  this  afternoon. 

The  Choir  sang,  "For  the  Trumpet 
Shall  Sound." 

Elder  Jack  S.  Daley,  president  of 
St.  Joseph  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER  133 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday, 
April  10. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  pres- 
ent and  presided.  At  his  request 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  services  of  the  session. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir, 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie,  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  this  session.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  organist. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  concluding 
session  of  the  136th  Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

President  David  O.  McKay  is  pres- 
ent this  afternoon  and  is  presiding  at 
this  session.  He  has  asked  me  to  con- 
duct this  meeting. 

The  proceedings  of  both  sessions  to- 
day will  be  re-broadcast  to  far-distant 
places  by  Radio  Station  KSL  and 
KIRO  Radio  at  Seattle  on  Monday, 
April  11,  1966,  from  1  o'clock  to  5 
o'clock  a.m. 

We  are  glad  to  acknowledge  receipt 
of  a  number  of  telegrams.  We  will 
not  have  time  to  read  all  of  them.  I 
shall  read  one  as  indicative  of  what 
all  have  said.  From  the  British  Mis- 
sion, O.  Preston  Robinson:  "Reception 
Saturday  morning  session  strong,  clear 
and  spiritually  gladdening.  We  have 
thrilled  to  your  message,  a  testimony 
from  a  Prophet  of  God."  Similar  mes- 


sages were  received  from  the  Chilean 
Mission,  Carl  J.  Beecroft;  the  British 
South  Mission,  Don  K.  Archer;  French 
East  Mission,  A.  James  Martin;  Franco- 
Belgian  Mission,  Joseph  P.  Edmunds 
the  Finnish  Mission,  John  M.  Asplund 
the  Danish  Mission,  Earl  Sorensen 
Scottish  Mission,  David  B.  Haight 
and  the  Brigham  Young  University 
First  Stake;  and  to  all  of  them  we 
extend  our  love  and  blessing  and 
gratitude  for  their  thoughtfulness  in 
sending  these  telegrams. 

On  Saturday  evening  we  had  an 
especially  inspiring  meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Church,  held  in  the 
Tabernacle,  but  relayed  by  closed- 
circuit  broadcast,  to  425  separate  loca- 
tions in  all  parts  of  the  United  States 
and  Canada.  Approximately  85,000 
holders  of  the  Priesthood  participated 
in  this  meeting. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
sing,  "Still,  Still  with  Thee,"  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie. 

After  the  singing,  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon  will  be  President  N. 
Eldon  Tanner  of  the  First  Presidency. 

After  President  Tanner  speaks,  we 
will  ask  Brother  James  A.  Cullimore 
to  say  a  few  words  in  connection  with 
his  recent  appointment  as  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve. 


The  Choir  sang,  "Still,  Still  With 
Thee." 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  E.  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


President  McKay,  my  beloved  col- 
leagues, brothers  and  sisters,  and  all 
who  are  listening  in,  it  is  With  a  deep 


feeling  of  humility  that  I  stand  before 
you  in  this  great  conference  today  and 
participate   with   you   as   we  com- 


134  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

memorate  the  death  and  resurrection 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

The  inspiring  talks  we  have  heard 
and  the  lovely  music  to  which  we  have 
listened  and  the  beautiful  spirit  that 
has  pervaded  this  whole  conference,  I 
am  sure,  have  touched  our  hearts  and 
helped  us  to  appreciate  the  great  sig- 
nificance and  sacredness  of  this  occa- 
sion that  we  are  commemorating 
today.  The  most  important  and  most 
significant  of  all  events  that  have  hap- 
pened in  the  history  and  life  of  man- 
kind are  the  birth,  life,  death,  and 
resurrection  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Only  Begotten  of 
God  the  Eternal  Father. 

Scriptures  the  source  of  knowledge 
of  Him 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that 
he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life." 
(John  3:16.) 

The  scriptures  give  us  an  accurate 
and  dramatic  account  of  how  Christ 
went  about  doing  good,  healing  the 
sick,  making  the  blind  to  see  and  the 
lame  to  walk;  how  he  was  persecuted, 
tried,  and  sentenced  to  death;  how  he 
was  betrayed;  the  agony  he  suffered 
before  he  was  actually  hanged  on  the 
cross.  Yet  in  spite  of  all  persecution 
and  suffering,  he  said  as  he  was  hanged 
on  the  cross:  "Father,  forgive  them; 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

And  his  last  words  before  he  died 
were:  "Father,  into  thy  hands  I  com- 
mend my  spirit.  .  .  ."  (Luke  23:46.) 

As  the  women,  through  their  love, 
came  seeking  Jesus  at  the  tomb,  the 
most  glorious  of  all  messages  was  given 
to  them  by  the  angel  who  said:  "He  is 
not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as  he  said." 
(Matt.  28:6.) 

Then  we  have  the  irrefutable  testi- 
monies of  Peter  and  John  and  the 
other  apostles  and  many  others  who 
saw  him  and  talked  to  him  after  his 
resurrection  and  were  instructed  by 
him,  both  in  the  Old  World  and  on 
this  the  American  continent. 


Third  Day 

I  say  to  the  world  as  the  late  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  said  in  his 
closing  words  to  a  large  group  of  busi- 
ness leaders  at  a  dinner  given  in  his 
honor  in  New  York  City: 

"For  us  Christians  he  is  the  Christ, 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  the  Living 
God,  the  Creator  under  God,  of  the 
earth,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  our 
Savior,  the  First  Fruits  of  the  Resur- 
rection, which  comes  to  all  born  into 
this  earth,  believer  and  unbeliever 
alike,  the  only  name  under  heaven 
given  among  men,  whereby  we  must 
be  saved."  (J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Be- 
hold the  Lamb  of  God,  p.  viii.) 

We  testify  that  He  lives 

Today,  while  we  in  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to- 
gether with  millions  of  others  through- 
out the  world,  believe  in  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  there 
are  those  who  are  trying  to  convince 
the  world  that  God  is  dead.  Some 
claim  to  be  Christians,  yet  atheists, 
and  claim  that  God  died  in  Christ. 

This  theory  is  not  new,  but  it  is 
more  serious  and  probably  worthy  of 
our  attention  because  the  argument  is 
originating  within  Christendom  and  is 
being  argued  by  intellectuals,  theo- 
logians, teachers  of  the  seminaries  in 
universities,  ministers,  and  bishops 
who  preach  it  from  the  pulpit  and 
perpetrate  it  in  books  and  magazines. 

The  seriousness  of  the  claim  that 
God  is  dead  is  also  emphasized  by 
conditions  in  the  colleges  in  America 
today.  In  Cornell  University's  Value 
Study,  the  researchers  found  little  or 
no  evidence  of  absolute  conviction  or 
adherence,  and  ended  by  calling 
student  belief  "secular  religion." 

In  the  Weekly  Religious  Review,  we 
read:  "It  is  a  serious  theological  mat- 
ter, though  not  without  its  comical 
aspects,  all  of  a  sudden  seminary  pro- 
fessors are  popping  up  in  every  coun- 
try, it  seems,  saying:  'We  simply  must 
stop  believing  in  God.'  Faith,  they  say, 
wagging  their  heads  at  their  students, 
is  no  longer  possible."  (Weekly  Re- 
ligious Review,  No.  266,  November  19, 
1965,  p.  1.) 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


135 


It  is  significant  to  note  that  many 
of  America's  colleges  were  originally 
founded  by  religious  groups  for  re- 
ligious purposes.  During  most  of  the 
nineteenth  century  they  were  centers 
of  religious  activity,  but  in  this  century 
there  has  been  a  radical  shift  toward 
religious  neutralism  among  academic 
leaders.  Thus  the  student  of  tradi- 
tional faith  may  discover  that  his 
cherished  convictions  are  ignored,  dis- 
missed, and  silenced  or  questioned  by 
another  standard  of  belief.  Their  de- 
cline in  a  secular  environment,  intel- 
lectually and  morally,  is  rapid  and 
not  infrequently  disastrous. 

The  Church's  system  of  education 

In  order  to  help  our  students  meet 
this  trend,  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  has  the  policy  of 
establishing  seminaries  and  institutes 
near  every  high  school  and  university 
where  there  are  sufficient  of  our  stu- 
dents to  justify  it.  I  would  encourage 
parents  to  have  their  children  attend 
schools  where  these  facilities  are  avail- 
able. These  people  who  profess  and 
promote  the  "God  is  dead"  theory  say 
that  it  is  old-fashioned  to  believe  in 
God  and  warn  that  unless  Christians 
bring  their  faith  into  line  with  modern 
knowledge,  Christian  faith  itself  will 
be  abandoned.  Can  you  think  of 
anything  more  abhorrent  than  to  claim 
that  we  should  seek  to  make  God  ac- 
ceptable to  man  rather  than  to  try  to 
bring  man  back  to  God? 

"Seek  Him  and  find  Him" 

The  promise  given  by  God  to  Israel 
as  found  in  Deuteronomy  is  worthy  of 
our  very  careful  attention: 

"But  if  from  thence  thou  shalt  seek 
the  Lord  thy  God,  thou  shalt  find  him, 
if  thou  seek  him  with  all  thy  heart  and 
with  all  thy  soul. 

"When  thou  art  in  tribulation,  and 
all  these  things  are  come  upon  thee, 
even  in  the  latter  days,  if  thou  turn  to 
the  Lord  thy  God,  and  shalt  be 
obedient  unto  his  voice; 

".  .  .  he  will  not  forsake  thee." 
(Deut.  4:29-31.) 

When  you  read  the  prayer  offered 
by  Jesus  Christ  in  the  Garden  of  Geth- 


semane,  as  he  left  his  three  apostles, 
"and  he  went  a  little  further,  and  fell 
on  his  face,  and  prayed,  saying,  O  my 
Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let  this  cup 
pass  from  me:  nevertheless  not  as  I 
will,  but  as  thou  wilt"  (Matt.  26:39), 
is  there  any  doubt  in  your  mind  that 
he  was  talking  to  his  Father,  that  he 
knew  God  lived? 

Then  as  he  reported  to  his  Father 
in  that  beautiful  prayer  recorded  in 
John  17:  "These  words  spake  Jesus, 
and  lifted  up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  and 
said,  Father,  the  hour  is  come;  glorify 
thy  Son,  that  thy  Son  also  may  glorify 
thee: 

"As  thou  hast  given  him  power  over 
all  flesh,  that  he  should  give  eternal 
life  to  as  many  as  thou  hast  given  him. 

"This  is  life  eternal  .  .  ." 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent. 

"I  have  glorified  thee  on  the  earth: 
I  have  finished  the  work  which  thou 
gavest  me  to  do. 

"And  now,  O  Father,  glorify  thou 
me  with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory 
which  I  had  with  thee  before  the 
world  was."  (John  17:1-5.) 

Can  anyone  believe  in  Christ,  ac- 
cept his  words,  and  doubt  that  God 
lives,  that  he  stands  ready  to  hear 
and  answer  prayers,  and  that  he  is 
the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ? 

The  testimony  of  the  Prophet 

Let  us  consider  Joseph  Smith's  own 
words  as  he  tells  of  his  experience 
when  he  went  to  God  in  prayer  after 
reading  in  James:  "If  any  of  you  lack 
wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth 
not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him."  (Jas. 
1:5.) 

Joseph  says:  "At  length  I  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  I  must  either  remain  in 
darkness  and  confusion,  or  else  I  must 
do  as  James  directs,  that  is,  ask  of  God. 
I  at  length  came  to  the  determination 
to  ask  of  God,  concluding  that  if  he 
gave  wisdom  to  them  that  lacked  wis- 
dom, and  would  give  liberally,  and 
not  upbraid,  I  might  venture. 


136  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

.;  "So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my 
determination  to  ask  of  God,  I  retired 
to  the  woods  to  make  the  attempt." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:13-14.) 

As  a  result  of  this  earnest  and  sin- 
cere prayer,  he  had  a  visitation  that 
gave  further  evidence  in  this  dispensa- 
tion of  the  reality  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son.  He  records:  "When  the  light 
rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  Personages, 
whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all 
description,  standing  above  me  in  the 
air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me, 
calling  me  by  name  and  said,  point- 
ing to  the  other — This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

In  spite  of  all  these  examples  of  the 
force  of  prayer,  much  doubt  seems  to 
exist  in  the  world  today;  therefore,  it 
is  evident  that  somewhere  along  the 
line  the  churches  have  lost  touch  with 
the  twentieth  century.  Could  this  be 
because  they  have  lost  touch  with  God 
and  have  been  led  by  blind  guides?  If 
so,  there  is  good  reason,  as  all  seem  to 
agree,  why  the  old  forms  must  be 
changed  and  for  us  to  return  to  God. 

Acknowledge  God  and  return 
to  Him 

To  help  us  understand  how  preva- 
lent this  need  is  and  how  important 
it  is  for  all  people  individually  to 
acknowledge  and  return  to  God,  I 
should  like  to  refer  to  one  source  of 
evidence  that  might  be  helpful. 

Prayer  and  communion  with  Him 

During  the  last  decade,  an  average 
of  about  10,000  young  men  have  been 
acting  full-time  in  a  religious  peace 
corps  throughout  the  world.  They  are 
our  Mormon  missionaries.  They  spend 
a  good  part  of  every  day  in  person 
to  person  contact  with  all  the 
world's  culture — the  churched,  the  un- 
churched, the  high  and  the  low,  the 
Christian  and  the  non-Christian.  They 
meet  millions  of  people  in  their 
homes  and  in  makeshift  settings,  at 
which  time  they  discuss  God  and 
prayer. 

As  these  missionaries  kneel  with 
their  new-found  friends  in  prayer  and 
teach  them  to  pray,  they  pour  out  their 
hearts  to  the  Lord  in  all  humility. 


Third  Day 

They  find  that  prayer  has  become  as 
meaningless  to  many  people  as  the 
purpose  of  life  has  become  meaning- 
less. They  find  that  few  pray  in  any 
satisfying  or  in  any  effective  way.  They 
find  that  very  few  have  any  form  of 
family  prayer.  It  is  appalling  to  find 
how  few  people  feel  that  they  are 
really  praying  to  a  living  God  or  have 
any  clear  expectation  of  what  the  re- 
sult might  be.  In  fact,  if  they  believe 
in  God,  they  admit  they  believe  in  a 
kind  of  God  and  in  a  kind  of  re- 
ligiousness, but  to  actually  talk  to  God 
is  foreign  to  them. 

Many  say:  "Praying  is  listening  to 
music  or  responding  to  nature." 

Others  say:  "I  have  my  own  kind  of 
prayer." 

And  still  others  say:  "Prayer  at  its 
best  is  just  silence — seeking  nothing, 
expecting  nothing." 

The  most  difficult  problem  the  mis- 
sionaries have  is  to  get  the  people 
whom  they  are  trying  to  teach  to  kneel 
down  and  actually  pray  with  them. 
This  attitude  toward  prayer  is  clearly 
pointed  out  in  a  report  of  a  recent 
survey  of  one  of  the  outstanding  centers 
of  religion  in  the  United  States. 

All  of  the  students  here  are  preparing 
either  for  teaching  or  ministerial 
careers  in  religion.  The  survey  showed 
that  only  9  percent  of  them  reported 
having  any  significant  prayer  life. 
The  others  said  "None"  or  "Almost 
none,"  yet  all  said  they  were  deeply 
religious  and  cared  to  help  others  be- 
come so. 

If  these  cases  are  typical,  one  must 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  world 
has  reached  the  point  at  which  they 
think  of  God,  whatever  God  is,  as  a 
kind  of  being  who  makes  prayer  mean- 
ingless, or  something  to  which  one 
cannot  go  for  guidance,  strength,  and 
comfort. 

These  Mormon  missionaries  of 
whom  I  spoke  have  had  some  very  out- 
standing and  encouraging  experiences 
with  those  who  have  learned  to  pray 
to  a  living  God.  They  have  seen  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  them  come  alive 
to  reality. 

One  outstanding  businessman,  when 
asked  how  he  happened  to  become  in- 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


137 


terested  in  the  Church,  said  to  me 
personally:  "When  I  knelt  with  those 
boys  and  heard  them  pray,  I  knew 
that  they  knew  to  whom  they  were 
speaking."  He  went  on  to  say  that  as 
he  became  interested,  he  too  began  to 
pray  to  a  living  God  and  proved  with- 
out doubt  the  statement  of  Moroni 
wherein  he  said: 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with 
a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  hav- 
ing faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest 
the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Mora  10:4.) 

Nothing  can  bring  a  greater  feeling 
of  joy  and  peace  and  satisfaction  and 
security  to  us  than  to  know  that  God 
is  present  and  interested  in  us.  This 
changes  the  outlook  and  the  lives  of 
the  people  when  they  have  discovered 
or  rediscovered  that  prayer  is  a  vital, 
vibrant  link.  Then  their  lives  be- 
come meaningful,  and  the  change  is 
evident  to  all. 

As  these  people  who  now  know 
through  prayer  that  God  lives  try  to 
explain  their  attitude  toward  prayer, 
before  they  met  the  missionaries,  it 
brings  us  to  one  conclusion,  and  that 
is  that  men  were  deadened  toward 
God,  and  not  that  God  is  dead.  Until 
they  are  conscious  of  a  living  God  to 
whom  they  can  go,  the  gospel  means 
very  little  to  them. 

The  issue,  then,  becomes  quite  clear; 
that  it  is  not  what  kind  of  God  man 
can  believe  in,  but  what  kind  of  man 
does  the  living  God  reach.  One  able 
theologian  makes  this  profound  state- 
ment: 

"It  may  be  that  the  funeral  that  is 
now  being  held  in  some  churches  is 
not  for  a  God  who  had  died,  but  for 
a  God  who  was  never  alive,  whom  it 
was  blasphemy  to  worship,  and  is  now 
folly  to  mourn.  Before  such  a  God 
one  can  pray  himself  to  death — in 
vain." 

Worship  Him 

For  those  who  have  been  worshiping 
an  unknown  God,  or  idols  of  some 


kind  or  other,  the  crumbling  of  these 
gods  or  idols  may  be  a  good  thing, 
providing  the  worshipers  can  see  be- 
yond the  idols.  It  may  be  that  our 
cultures  in  the  twentieth  century  are 
so  sick  and  tired  of  false  prophets  that 
many  are  not  interested  in  or  capable 
of  listening  to  true  ones  and,  in  fact, 
not  capable  of  acknowledging  that 
there  ever  were  true  prophets.  There- 
fore, they  feel  no  relationship  to  God 
and  no  need  of  calling  on  him.  This 
in  itself  is  a  most  serious  situation 
indeed. 

There  surely  can  be  no  real  com- 
fort in  what  is  called  an  atheistic  re- 
ligion. Imagine  a  religion  in  which 
one  can  only  think  of  a  God  who  is 
formless,  faceless,  and  heartless,  who 
makes  no  demands,  who  has  no  con- 
sequences, who  takes  no  role  in  any  of 
the  real  battles  of  life  except  (as  some 
kind  of  metaphysical  Atlas)  to  provide 
the  ground  of  battle. 

What  can  a  man  expect  of  God, 
or  how  can  he  expect  God  to  reach 
him,  if  he  is  convinced  that  the  only 
proof  of  God's  reality  is  his  total  ab- 
sence or  if  he  has  a  hundred  reasons 
why  divine  revelation,  if  it  came, 
would  not  be  divine  and  not  be 
revelation? 

In  referring  to  these  conditions  in 
the  world  today,  the  eloquent  Rabbi 
Abraham  Joshua  Heschel  says: 

"I  speak  as  a  person  who  is  often 
afraid  and  terribly  alarmed  lest  God 
has  turned  away  from  us  in  disgust 
and  even  deprived  us  of  the  power  to 
understand  his  word.  Some  of  us  are 
like  patients  in  the  state  of  final  agony, 
who  scream  in  delirium:  The  doctor 
is  deadl  The  doctor  is  dead!"  (Union 
Theological  Seminary  Quarterly,  Jan- 
uary 1966.) 

In  order  for  life  to  have  a  purpose, 
and  for  us  to  know  where  we  came 
from  and  why  we  are  here  and  what 
our  future  might  hold,  it  is  necessary 
that  we  be  willing  to  admit  the  possi- 
bility that  God  does  exist,  that  his 
absence  is  not  his  will,  but  our  lack 
of  will  or  our  unwillingness  to  reach, 
to  listen,  and  to  respond. 

All  down  through  the  ages  the 
prophets  have  borne  testimony  that 
they  have  talked  with  God,  that  they 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  W 

have  received  instructions  and  been 
led  by  him.  This  applies  to  prophets 
in  varying  conditions,  in  different 
countries,  and  at  different  times,  in- 
cluding our  own.  Also,  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  individuals  scattered 
throughout  the  world  today  can  and 
do  bear  testimony  that  their  prayers 
have  been  answered  in  many  ways. 

Family  worship  in  the  home 

What  a  beautiful  sight  and  experi- 
ence and  what  a  great  privilege  and 
blessing  it  is  for  a  family  to  kneel 
down  together  in  family  prayer  and 
talk  to  God,  knowing  that  he  is  there, 
that  he  will  hear  and  answer  their 
prayers.  The  value  of  such  a  prayer 
and  the  influence  it  has  on  the  indi- 
viduals who  kneel  in  that  prayer,  from 
the  father  and  mother  to  the  youngest 
child,  cannot  be  measured. 

I  remember  so  well  as  we  knelt 
in  family  prayer  how  Father  used  to 
talk  to  the  Lord  as  one  man  would 
talk  to  another,  how  he  expressed  his 
gratitude  for  his  blessings,  and  how  he 
prayed  for  the  welfare  of  his  family, 
and  how  he  pled  for  wisdom  and 
knowledge  and  courage  and  strength 
for  all  of  us  to  do  the  right. 

He  who  made  us  wants  us  to  suc- 
ceed and  stands  ready  to  answer  the 
call.  As  the  Lord  said,  "Ask,  and  it 
shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall 
find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  7:7.) 

But  as  President  McKay  said  at 
October  conference,  you  must  knock, 
you  must  ask,  and  you  must  seek.  The 
question  as  to  whom  can  the  Lord 
reach  may  be  answered  in  the  follow- 
ing description  given  by  a  young  man 
of  a  prayer  offered  by  another  man. 
He  said: 

"I  had  heard  men  and  women  pray 
[before]  .  .  .  from  the  most  ignorant, 
both  as  to  letters  and  intellect,  to  the 
most  learned  and  eloquent,  but  never 
until  then  had  I  heard  a  man  address 
his  Maker  as  though  He  was  present 
listening  as  a  kind  father  would  listen 
to  the  sorrows  of  a  dutiful  child.  [He] 
was  at  that  time  unlearned,  but  that 
prayer,  ...  to  my  humble  mind,  par- 
took of  the  learning  and  eloquence  of 


Third  Day 

heaven.  There  was  no  ostentation, 
no  raising  of  the  voice  as  by  enthusi- 
asm, but  a  plain  conversational  tone, 
as  a  man  would  address  a  present 
friend.  It  appeared  to  me  as  though, 
in  case  the  veil  were  taken  away,  I 
could  see  the  Lord  standing  facing  His 
humblest  of  all  servants  I  had  ever 
seen.  Whether  this  was  really  the  case 
I  cannot  say;  but  one  thing  I  can  say, 
it  was  the  crowning,  so  to  speak,  of  all 
the  prayers  I  ever  heard." 

This  is  a  description  of  Joseph  Smith 
by  Daniel  Tyler,  then  in  his  teens, 
on  hearing  Joseph,  age  30,  in  Kirtland, 
Ohio.  (The  Juvenile  Instructor,  Vol. 
27,  pp.  127-8.) 

Believe  all  who  testify  of  Him 

Prophets,  whether  in  ancient  or 
modern  times,  prayed  to  a  God  who 
was  alive.  For  them  he  is  alive  and 
present.  He  acts,  he  moves,  he  in- 
forms, he  intervenes.  He  transmits 
knowledge  and  power.  He  is  not  just 
ultimate,  he  is  intimate.  He  is  a 
person.    He  is  a  jealous  God. 

I  should  like  to  bear  my  personal 
testimony  to  everyone  under  the  sound 
of  my  voice  today  that  I  know  as  I 
know  I  live  that  God  lives,  that  he 
does  hear  and  answer  prayers.  When 
as  members  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
Council  of  the  Twelve  we  meet  in 
the  temple  and  join  in  prayer,  he  who 
is  mouth  actually  speaks  to  the  Lord, 
expressing  our  gratitude,  our  concern, 
asking  for  strength  and  wisdom  and  in- 
spiration. And  I  wish  to  bear 
testimony  that  I  have  seen  these 
prayers  answered  many  times. 

I  know  of  no  greater  blessing  that  I 
enjoy  than  to  know  that  I  can  go  to 
God  the  Eternal  Father  in  humble 
prayer,  knowing  that  he  is  there  as  a 
living,  personal  God.  I  appeal  to  all 
of  you  who  have  any  doubt  in  your 
mind  that  you  accept  the  words  of 
Jesus  Christ  himself  and  of  the 
prophets  of  every  dispensation  who 
have  said  that  God  lives,  that  he  is 
the  Creator  of  mankind,  in  whose 
image  we  are  made.  Through  ac- 
cepting the  gospel  as  given  by  Jesus 
Christ  and  in  going  to  God  in  all 
humility,  our  prayers  will  be  answered, 


ELDER  ]AMES  A.  CULLIMORE 


139 


our  success  will  be  greater,  our  lives 
will  be  happier;  and  through  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  Christ  we  may  go 
forward  confidently  toward  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  lives  into  the  presence 
of  God  the  Eternal  Father. 

May  we  all  prepare  ourselves  for 
these  blessings,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 


Last  Wednesday  we  sustained 
Brother  James  A.  Cullimore  as  one  of 
the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve.  He  has 
not  yet  been  ordained  and  set  apart. 
We  thought  it  appropriate  that  he  be 
given  an  opportunity  to  say  a  few 
words  this  afternoon,  although  the 
program  that  was  previously  prepared 
is  rather  full.  Even  in  our  courts,  a 
man  is  asked  before  sentence  is  passed 
if  he  has  anything  to  say.  So  we  will 
give  Brother  Cullimore  now  an  oppor- 
tunity to  say  how  he  feels. 


ELDER  JAMES  A.  CULLIMORE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters:  I  think  that 
possibly  only  these  brethren  of  the 
General  Authorities  who  have  preceded 
me  can  really  tell  how  I  feel.  I  think 
it  is  impossible  to  know  unless  you  go 
through  it  yourself. 

I  am  most  grateful,  however,  for  this 
tremendous  honor  that  has  been  be- 
stowed upon  me,  for  the  privilege  I 
have  of  working  with  these  brethren, 
and  with  you,  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  I  feel  very  humble  in  this  calling. 
I  feel  entirely  inadequate  and  unquali- 
fied. I  think  that  I  feel  somewhat  as 
Newel  K.  Whitney  did  when  he  was 
asked  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to 
be  the  bishop  of  Kirtland,  for  he  said 
that  he  felt  that  he  was  not  capable, 
he  was  unqualified  and  just  could  not 
do  it.  After  the  Prophet  had  told  him 
that  the  Lord  had  called  him  and  that 
it  was  by  revelation  that  this  was  made 
known,  he  still  didn't  feel  that  he  was 
able  and  could  act.  Then  the  Prophet 
said,  "Go  and  ask  Father  for  yourself." 
He  went  and  knelt  in  humble  suppli- 
cation, and  he  heard  a  voice  from 
heaven  which  said,  "Thy  strength  is 
in  me."  He  accepted  and  went  about 
his  work,  and  I  understand  was  a 
bishop  of  the  Church  for  some  18 
years.  (LDS  Biographical  Encyclo- 
pedia, Vol.  1,  p.  224.) 


"He  that  doeth  works  of 
righteousness" 

I  know  that  only  by  virtue  of  the 
strength  I  can  receive  from  the  Lord 
can  I  be  made  a  qualified  and  capable 
servant  of  the  Lord  in  the  fulfillment 
of  this  responsibility. 

I  am  so  grateful  for  the  heritage  that 
I  have,  for  the  teachings  of  a  good 
mother  and  an  able  father  who  taught 
me  in  my  youth  to  love  the  Lord.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  experiences  that  I  have 
had  of  living  away  from  Zion — Utah 
Zion — in  the  far-flung  corners  of  this 
country  and  in  many  areas  of  the  coun- 
try. There  are  many  such  circumstances 
as  mine  all  over  the  world  and 
especially  in  the  United  States.  I  see, 
as  I  have  made  visits  to  your  stakes, 
that  almost  without  exception  a  de- 
voted family  has  been  instrumental  in 
the  growth  of  the  Church  in  that  par- 
ticular area,  as  family  members  have 
seen  fit  to  serve  the  Lord,  to  devote 
themselves  to  the  work,  and  to  build 
the  Church. 

We  are  grateful  for  any  part  that 
we  may  have  had  in  building  the 
Church  in  the  areas  where  we  have 
lived,  and  in  so  doing  we  have  built 
our  testimonies  and  have  felt  strong  in 
the  things  that  we  have  done.  I  take 
strength  and  consolation  in  the  teach- 
ings that  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet 


140  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

Joseph  Smith  wherein  he  said,  "Where- 
fore, be  not  weary  in  well-doing,  for 
ye  are  laying  the  foundation  of  a  great 
work.  And  out  of  small  things  pro- 
ceedeth  that  which  is  great."  (D&G 
64:33.) 

One  of  my  favorite  scriptures  and 
one  from  which  I  receive  a  great  deal 
of  consolation  is  found  in  the  59th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 
".  .  .  he  who  doeth  the  works  of  right- 
eousness shall  receive  his  reward,  even 
peace  in  this  world,  and  eternal  life  in 
the  world  to  come."  (D&G  59:23.) 
I  can  think  of  no  greater  reward  than 
to  have  peace  in  this  world,  the  vindi- 
cation of  the  Father,  feeling  that  the 
things  you  are  doing  are  acceptable 
unto  the  Lord  and  that  you  are  serving 
him  to  such  an  extent  that  you  have 
peace  in  your  life.  And,  of  course,  all 
that  any  of  us  are  working  for  is  eternal 
life  in  the  world  to  come. 


Third  Day 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is 
his  work  and  that  if  we  will  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  and  serve 
him  well,  we  shall  have  peace  in  our 
souls,  we  shall  have  that  vindication 
of  the  Father,  the  peace  that  we  are 
searching  for,  and  we  shall  certainly 
have  eternal  life,  which  is  our  ultimate 
goal.  I  pray  for  this  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Brother  James  A.  Cullimore  has  just 
spoken  to  us,  a  member  of  the  As- 
sistants to  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

Elder  Richards. 


ELDER  FRANKL 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  re- 
joice in  being  with  you  this  beautiful 
day  in  this  peaceful  and  inspirational 
environment,  knowing  that  through- 
out the  world  there  is  generally  a  lack 
of  peace  and  men's  hearts  are  failing 
them. 

World  needs  knowledge  that 
God  lives 

The  great  need  in  the  world  today 
is  a  knowledge  that  God  lives  and 
that  he  governs  the  affairs  of  this 
world,  that  we  are  his  spirit  children, 
and  that  he  is  vitally  interested  in  our 
welfare.  I  am  grateful  for  the  knowl- 
edge I  have  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  our  Savior  and  Redeemer.  I 
am  thankful  for  my  testimony  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  the 
instrument  through  which  the  gospel 
was  restored  to  earth. 

We  are  blessed  beyond  measure  by 
having  a  great  prophet  who  stands  at 
the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
at  this  time,  our  beloved  David  O. 
McKay.   May  the  Lord  bless  and  sus- 


N  D.  RICHARDS 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

tain  him.  Peace  will  replace  fear  in 
men's  hearts  when  they  listen  to  the 
counsel  of  God's  Prophet  and  accept 
and  follow  the  principles  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Gospel  principles  eternal 

One  of  the  wonderful  things  about 
the  gospel  is  that  its  principles  are 
eternal  and  unchanging.  It  is,  there- 
fore, true  that  as  we  live  in  accordance 
with  these  principles,  we  are  assured 
results  consistent  with  our  compliance. 
The  Lord  made  this  clear  when  he 
instructed  us  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  "all  who  will  have 
a  blessing  at  my  hands  shall  abide  the 
law  which  was  appointed  for  that 
blessing.  .  .  .  (D&C  132:5.) 

Regarding  this  matter,  Elder  John  A. 
Widtsoe  said:  "The  great  governing 
principles  of  truth  are  unchanging. 
But,  the  conditions  brought  about  by 
human  activity  are  forever  chang- 
ing. ...  we  span  changes  that  in 
the  past  seemed  impossible.  And 
undoubtedly    the    future   holds  de- 


ELDER  ERANKL 

velopments  that  today  are  equally 
inconceivable. 

"Such  changes  affect  human  think- 
ing. New  social  and  economic  prob- 
lems arise.  Even  the  spiritual  outlook 
is  invaded.  Then,  it  becomes  the 
duty  of  the  Prophet  to  teach  how  the 
eternal  laws  of  the  gospel  may  be 
applied  amidst  constant  change,  for 
the  benefit  and  blessing  of  humanity." 
(Evidences  &  Reconciliations,  1960 
edition,  p.  351.) 

With  the  rapid  changes  that  are  tak- 
ing place  today  in  every  phase  of  our 
lives,  it  is  very  important  that  we 
recognize  the  eternal  nature  of  prin- 
ciples of  truth.  Faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  first  great  eternal 
principle  of  the  gospel  and  is  indeed 
a  very  vital  factor  in  our  lives.  To 
me  it  is  one  of  the  most  interesting 
and  inspiring  principles  to  contem- 
plate. I  would  like  to  consider  with 
you  the  principle  of  faith,  together 
with  its  corollaries — work  and  progress. 

In  consideration  of  this  great  prin- 
ciple we  should  recognize  that  it  does 
not  promise  something  for  nothing. 
The  apostle  James  asked  the  question: 

Faith  the  principle  of  action 

"What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren, 
though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?  Can  faith  save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and 
destitute  of  daily  food,  And  one  of 
you  say  unto  them,  Depart  in  peace, 
be  ye  warmed  and  filled;  notwith- 
standing ye  give  them  not  those  things 
which  are  needful  to  the  body;  what 
doth  it  profit? 

"Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works, 
is  dead,  being  alone."  (Jas.  2:14-17.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph,  in  speaking  on 
this  subject,  said:  "Let  us  here  observe, 
that  a  religion  that  does  not  require 
the  sacrifice  of  all  things  never  has 
power  sufficient  to  produce  the  faith 
necessary  unto  life  and  salvation.  .  .  . 
and  it  is  through  the  medium  of  the 
sacrifice  of  all  earthly  things  that  men 
do  actually  know  that  they  are  doing 
the  things  that  are  well  pleasing  in  the 
sight  of  God." 

"And  as  faith  is  the  moving  cause 
of  all  action  in  temporal  concerns,  so 


V  D.  RICHARDS  141 

it  is  in  spiritual. .  .  ."  (Lecture  6:7  and 
Lecture  1:12.) 

Frequently  we  refer  to  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  gospel  of  work,  and 
the  Prophet  Joseph  stated  in  his  Lec- 
tures on  Faith  that  this  means  mental 
as  well  as  physical  effort. 

Plans  are  carefully  developed  before 
important  projects  are  commenced.  All 
worthwhile  endeavors  require  mental 
exertion — making  decisions  or  the  mak- 
ing up  of  one's  mind — before  physical 
exertion  comes  into  play. 

We  should  realize  that  as  we  de- 
velop faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  it 
is  possible  and  natural  for  us  to 
develop  faith  in  ourselves;  and  recog- 
nizing the  great  importance  of  faith  in 
our  lives,  we  see  the  great  need  of 
continually  building  our  faith.  Among 
other  things,  the  building  of  faith 
involves  a  prayerful  study  of  eternal 
gospel  principles  and  the  obtaining  of 
a  testimony  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  The  process  also 
involves  making  up  one's  mind  to  live 
the  gospel  and  serve  his  fellowmen 
through  the  sacrifice  of  earthly  things. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  offers  great  opportunities 
for  the  building  of  faith. 

Faith,  being  the  moving  cause  of 
all  action  in  temporal  as  well  as 
spiritual  concerns,  is  evidenced  by  an 
affirmative  attitude  together  with  a 
well-developed  plan  of  action.  Nephi 
of  old,  when  required  to  go  back  to 
Jerusalem  to  get  the  record  of  his  fore- 
fathers, possessed  a  strong  affirmative 
attitude,  the  evidence  of  a  great  faith, 
when  he  said:  "I  will  go  and  do  the 
things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded, for  I  know  that  the  Lord 
giveth  no  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare 
a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accom- 
plish the  thing  which  he  commandeth 
them."  (1  Ne.  3:7.) 

On  one  occasion  at  a  district  confer- 
ence, I  was  interviewing  a  man  for 
ordination  to  the  office  of  elder.  He 
was  having  some  difficulty  with  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  I  asked  him  what 
his  attitude  was,  and  he  replied  that 
there  was  nothing  in  the  world  that 
he  would  rather  do  than  stop  smoking. 

I  told  him  that  all  he  had  to  do  was 


142 

Sunday,  April  10 

to  make  up  his  mind  never  to  have 
another  cigarette  and  that  when  he 
did  that,  90  percent  of  his  problem 
would  be  solved.  I  would  then  tell 
him  what  the  other  ten  percent  was. 

I  asked  him  to  make  up  his  mind 
immediately,  look  me  in  the  eye,  shake 
my  hand  firmly,  and  tell  me  that  he 
would  never  have  another  cigarette. 
I  extended  my  hand  to  him  and  asked 
him  if  he  were  ready.  He  hesitated  a 
moment  and  said,  "No,"  that  he  was 
afraid  that  if  he  promised  he  would 
not  smoke  and  then  later  did  so,  his 
conscience  would  hurt  him. 

Under  these  circumstances  I  could 
not  approve  his  ordination  and  so  told 
him,  since  I  felt  there  would  be  many 
things  that  he  would  not  do  that  an 
elder  should  do.  He  left  considerably 
disturbed. 

Later  in  the  day  he  asked  to  speak 
to  me  again.  As  he  sat  down  his  face 
lighted  up.  He  said  that  he  had  made 
up  his  mind  to  stop  smoking  and  that 
he  had  never  experienced  such  a  won- 
derful feeling  in  his  whole  life.  He 
felt  as  though  a  50-pound  weight  had 
been  lifted  from  his  shoulders. 

He  then  asked  me  what  the  other 
ten  percent  was.  I  told  him  that  if  he 
had  any  cigarettes  on  him  or  at  home, 
he  should  get  rid  of  them  immediately 
so  they  would  not  be  a  temptation. 

I  also  suggested  that  he  discontinue 
going  out  with  his  smoking  friends  on 
his  breaks.  These  and  other  things 
that  he  could  do  to  strengthen  himself 
constituted  the  other  ten  percent.  Then, 
with  prayer  and  fasting  by  himself  and 
with  his  family,  he  could  be  assured 
that  the  Lord  would  make  him  equal 
to  the  task  of  overcoming  the  smoking 
habit.  This  incident  occurred  some  six 
years  ago.  He  has  never  smoked  since 
and  is  now  an  honored  and  respected 
bishop.  Thus,  through  his  affirmative 
attitude  and  works,  he  manifested  his 
faith;  and  with  the  help  of  the  Lord, 
he  achieved  his  goal. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Faith,  the  cause;  works,  the  effect 

Effective  faith  is  always  connected 
with  works,  and  it  is  only  through  this 
combination  that  we  achieve.  This  is 
indeed  the  key  to  success,  happiness, 
and  growth.  Keeping  in  mind  that 
faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  some  of  the 
blessings  that  come  from  obedience  to 
the  great  principle  of  faith  are: 

A  desire  to  achieve  worthwhile  ob- 
jectives. 

An  affirmative  attitude  with  the 
capacity  to  really  make  up  one's  mind. 

Confidence  and  power  that  make 
the  difficult  or  seemingly  hopeless 
possible  of  attainment. 

Loyalty  and  steadfastness  in  service 
to  our  fellowmen. 

And  finally,  peace,  happiness,  and 
growth  resulting  from  achievement  of 
worthwhile  objectives. 

It  was  necessary  for  each  of  us  as 
spirits  to  leave  the  spirit  world  and 
come  to  this  earth  and  learn  to  walk 
by  faith,  that  the  purposes  of  this  life 
might  be  accomplished. 

As  we  enter  into  each  activity  of  life, 
both  spiritual  and  temporal,  let  us 
apply  these  great  fundamental  and 
eternal  principles  of  faith  and  works. 
By  so  doing  we  can  be  assured  like 
Nephi  of  old  that  the  Lord  will  pre- 
pare a  way  for  us  to  do  the  things  we 
are  assigned  to  do.  Our  hearts  will  not 
fail  us,  we  will  achieve  our  righteous 
objectives,  and  we  will  have  peace  that 
surpasseth  all  understanding. 

I  bear  this  testimony  to  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed 
us. 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 


143 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  obe- 
dient to  my  responsibility  as  a  seventy, 
having  been  "called  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel, and  to  be  [an]  especial  witness 
.  .  .  unto  the  Gentiles  and  in  all  the 
world"  (D&C  107:25),  I  humbly  take 
this  opportunity  to  give  my  witness  or 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  all.  In  so 
doing  I  seek  for  the  spirit  of  which 
Nephi  spoke: 

".  .  .  for  when  a  man  speaketh  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men."  (2  Ne. 
33:1.) 

Testimony  and  witness 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  God  lives, 
that  he  is  our  Eternal  and  Heavenly 
Father,  and  that  he  loves  us  because 
we  are  his  children. 

I  bear  witness  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  he  was  the  First  Begotten 
in  the  spirit  and  the  Only  Begotten  in 
the  flesh,  that  he  was  in  the  beginning 
with  God,  that  he  is  the  Creator  of 
the  world  and  all  that  is  in  it,  that 
he  is  the  promised  Messiah  of  whom 
the  prophets  spoke  for  4,000  years.  I 
bear  witness  that  he  is  our  Savior  and 
Redeemer,  that  he  wrought  the  atoning 
sacrifice  in  our  behalf.  I  know  that 
he  was  resurrected  on  the  third  day, 
that  he  lives  today  and  is  the  head  of 
this  his  church.  I  testify  that  he  will 
come  again  the  second  time,  as  has 
been  said  so  often  in  this  conference. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet,  sent  to  the  earth 
to  open  this  the  last  dispensation  of 
the  gospel.  I  know  that  he  actually 
saw  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  that  he  was  instrumental 
in  restoring  the  true  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  earth. 

I  bear  witness  that  the  apostleship 
with  its  keys  and  powers  that  were 
conferred  upon  the  Prophet  Joseph 
have  been  conferred  upon  his  success- 
ors and  that  President  David  O. 
McKay  holds  them  today.  I  bear 
witness  that  this  courageous,  deter- 


mined, noble  man  is  indeed  a  prophet 
of  God. 

I  know  that  the  modern  scriptures 
found  in  this  Church,  consisting  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  are  true;  that  to  follow  the  plan 
of  salvation  contained  therein  will 
lead  us  to  our  exaltation. 

I  know  that  we  are  members  of  "the 
only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth"  (D&C  1:30), 
with  which  the  Lord  is  pleased. 

Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

Some  of  you  may  wonder  how  it  is 
possible  to  say  without  reservation  and 
with  such  certainty  that  "I  know" 
these  things.  This  witness  comes 
through  the  gift  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  it  has  come  to  me. 
This  is  characteristic  of  the  true 
church  in  this  and  all  other  ages.  This 
certainty  has  always  been  present  with 
the  prophets  or  whenever  the  Church 
with  its  authority  and  priesthood  has 
been  on  the  earth. 

In  days  of  old  Job  spoke  with  this 
same  certainty: 

"For  I  know  that  my  redeemer 
liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms 
destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God."  (Job  19:25-26.) 

The  Book  of  Mormon 
Testimonies 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  classic 
example  of  such  definite  declarations 
on  testimony.  The  word  "know"  and 
such  derivations  as  "knew"  "knowl- 
edge," "known"  appear  frequently  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  phrase  "I 
know"  appears  more  than  100  times — 
virtually  all  of  them  testimony 
oriented,  the  prophets  declaring  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Testimonies  about  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon are  equally  certain.  After  having 
seen  an  angel  and  the  plates  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  trans- 


144 

Sunday,  April  10 

lated,  the  Three  Witnesses  bore  testi- 
mony with  words  of  soberness,  saying: 
"And  we  also  know  that  they  have 
been  translated  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God,  for  his  voice  hath  declared  it 
unto  us;  wherefore  we  know  of  a 
surety  that  the  work  is  true."  (The 
Testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses.) 

About  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord  said:  "Search  these  com- 
mandments, for  they  are  true  and 
faithful,  and  the  prophecies  and 
promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all 
be  fulfilled."  (D&C  1:37.) 

In  spite  of  such  certainty  of  knowl- 
edge, there  are  those  who  still  doubt 
the  revelations  from  God. 

I  had  a  bright,  but  confused,  young 
man  in  my  office  just  last  week.  His 
problem  may  be  typical  of  this  genera- 
tion's searching,  doubting  youth.  He 
believed  only  that  which  can  be 
proved.  It  seemed  easy  for  him  to  ac- 
cept and  believe  the  discoveries  and 
conclusions  of  the  scientist,  but  he  was 
having  difficulty  believing  revealed 
knowledge.  I  explained  to  him  that 
there  are  different  kinds  of  knowledge, 
some  more  readily  discernible  than 
others,  but  that  spiritual  matters  must 
needs  be  discerned  by  the  spirit. 

This  problem  pertains  not  to  this 
generation  only.  Paul,  speaking  to  the 
Corinthians,  explained: 

Knowledge  by  the  Spirit  of  God 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things 
of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God. 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the 
spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  spirit 
which  is  of  God;  that  we  might  know 
the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us 
of  God. 

"Which  things  also  we  speak,  not  in 
the  words  which  man's  wisdom 
teacheth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost 
teacheth;  comparing  spiritual  things 
with  spiritual. 

"But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God:  for 
they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither 
can  he  know  them,  because  they  are 
spiritually  discerned."  (1  Cor.  2:11-14) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

My  young  friend  held  to  that  old 
statement,  "Seeing  is  believing."  There 
is  one  realm,  however,  where  it  works 
the  other  way:  Believing  is  seeing!  The 
Lord  hides  some  choice  truths  behind 
obstacles  that  will  melt  only  before  the 
warmth  of  faith.  Faith,  like  courage, 
is  tempered  by  trial.  Moroni  was 
speaking  thus  when  he  said: 

"And  now,  I,  Moroni,  would  speak 
somewhat  concerning  these  things;  I 
would  show  unto  the  world  that  faith 
is  things  which  are  hoped  for  and  not 
seen;  wherefore,  dispute  not  because  ye 
see  not,  for  ye  receive  no  witness  until 
after  the  trial  of  your  faith."  (Eth. 
12:6.  Italics  added.) 

"The  still  small  voice  testifies" 

When  one  hears  the  still  small 
voice  of  the  Spirit  testifying  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  this  kind  of  knowledge, 
for  that  person,  is  as  valid  as  a  moun- 
tain of  so-called  "scientific"  evidence. 
That  person  really  knows  a  truth.  It 
affects  his  whole  being.  It  affects  all 
other  kinds  of  knowledge  that  he  may 
have. 

This  kind  of  knowledge  is  not  re- 
stricted to  a  special  few.  It  is  available 
to  all  who  will  receive  it.  It  is  our 
Father's  desire  that  all  his  children 
shall  come  to  a  knowledge  of  his  son: 
"Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  me."  (John 
5:39.) 

A  testimony  can  come  to  anyone 
who  desires  a  testimony  on  the  basis 
that  Elder  Hinckley  outlined  yesterday 
— by  a  study  of  the  scriptures,  by 
serving  in  the  Church,  and  by  asking 
the  Lord  for  a  testimony.  A  testimony, 
when  it  comes,  stimulates  a  man  to 
want  to  progress.  It  gives  him  a  desire 
to  achieve. 

I  met  a  man  in  Mexico  recently. 
Several  years  ago  when  he  was  bap- 
tized, he  could  neither  read  nor  write. 
It  is  amazing  today,  however,  to  see 
this  man  holding  a  position  of  leader- 
ship in  the  branch,  filling  out  the 
numerous  reports  that  a  branch  presi- 
dent must  send  in,  preaching  from  the 
scriptures,  and  counseling  with  his 
brethren. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


145 


This  achievement  was  not  im- 
posed externally.  This  yearning  to  do 
and  to  be  was  kindled  internally  by 
as  simple  a  thing  as  a  testimony  of 
the  gospel. 

I  have  received  that  testimony.  I 
have  given  you  my  witness.  The  test 
of  the  truthfulness  of  my  witness,  as 
well  as  the  witness  of  all  those  who 
have  so  testified  in  this  conference,  is 
not  the  acceptance  by  the  nonmembers 
of  the  Church,  nor  even  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  The  test  is  whether 
God  inspired  it  and  recognizes  and 
honors  such  testimony.  Any  of  you 
may  know  of  the  truthfulness  of  these 
things  which  have  been  spoken  by 
asking  the  Lord  for  your  own  personal 
witness  that  these  things  are  true.  May 
each  of  you  be  concerned  enough 
about  your  eternal  destiny  so  to  ask, 


I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Turtle,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

The  choir  and  congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou  King 
of  Kings,"  conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Boyd  K. 
Packer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  and 
President  of  the  New  England  Mission, 
will  be  our  speaker;  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang, 
"Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters: 
Much  of  the  past  year  we  have  spent 
presiding  over  the  New  England  Mis- 
sion. I  can't  resist  quoting  a  few  lines 
from  Robert  Frost.  Coming  from  New 
England  here  to  the  many  varieties  of 
good  weather  we  have  seen  today, 
these  lines  seem  so  appropriate: 

"The  sun  was  bright  but  the  day  was 
chill. 

You  know  how  it  is  on  an  April  day, 
When  the  sun  is  bright  and  the  wind 
is  still, 

And  you're  one  month  on  in  the 

middle  of  May. 
But  if  you  as  much  as  dare  to  speak 
A  cloud  comes  over  the  sunlit  arch, 
A  wind  comes  off  the  frozen  peak 
And  you're  two  months  back  to  the 

first  of  March." 

("Two  Tramps  in  Mudtime.") 

New  England  is  beautiful  in  many 
ways: 

"Oh  beautiful  for  pilgrim  feet, 
Whose  stern,  impassioned  stress 
A  thoroughfare  of  freedom  beat 
Across  the  wilderness!" 


(Katherine  Lee  Bates,  "America 
the  Beautiful.") 
It  is  a  place  of  beginnings.  It  was 
there  .  .  . 

"By  the  rude  bridge  that  arched  the 
flood, 

Their  flags  to  April's  breeze  unfurled, 
Here  once  the  embattled  farmers  stood, 
And  fired  the  shot  heard  round  the 
world." 

(Ralph  Waldo  Emerson, 
"Concord  Hymn.") 

"The  cradle  of  liberty" 

Something  is  said  about  its  being  the 
cradle  of  liberty.  It  is  more  than  that. 
It  is  the  birthplace  of  prophets  of  God. 
Joseph  Smith  was  born  there,  Brigham 
Young,  Wilford  Woodruff,  and  many 
others.  Joseph  Smith  twice  preached 
there  from  door  to  door. 

Today  our  elders  set  foot  on  the 
same  granite  cobblestones,  tap  the 
same  knockers  on  the  same  doors  to 
bear  the  selfsame  witness. 

They  see  them  come,  two  by  two — 
teaching  truth,  leaving  blessings.  Be- 
cause they  are  but  striplings,  they  do 


146  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

not  see  them  as  servants  of  the  Lord, 
authorized  to  represent  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  by 
his  own  declaration  "the  only  true  and 
living  church  upon  the  face  of  the 
whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord, 
am  well  pleased.  .  .  ."  (D&C  1:30.) 

This  dedicated  service  of  the  mis- 
sionaries is  most  appealing  to  non- 
members.  Last  week  I  sat  at  lunch  with 
two  executives  of  a  national  service 
organization.  "Will  you,"  one  of  them 
solicited,  "spend  an  evening  with  us  to 
explain  how  your  volunteer  program 
works?  We  depend  to  a  large  measure 
on  volunteer  help,  and  we  need  to 
know  the  secret  of  your  success." 

The  secret  to  our  success: 

If  there  is  a  secret  to  our  success, 
it  is  poorly  kept.  The  whole  purpose 
of  this  conference  and  of  our  mission- 
ary effort  is  to  tell  it — over  and  over 
and  over  again. 

A  prominent  minister  recently  re- 
flected on  why  their  people  would  not 
serve.  "Our  ministers  are  dedicated. 
Why  will  our  people  not  respond?" 
The  thing  he  does  not  understand  is 
that  the  response  to  such  a  call  does 
not  depend  on  the  dedication  and 
conviction  of  the  minister  or  the  one 
making  the  call  but  rather  upon  the 
dedication  and  conviction  of  the  one 
who  answers  it. 

In  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  there  is  no  profes- 
sional clergy,  as  is  common  in  the 
other  churches.  Perhaps  more  signifi- 
cant than  this,  there  is  no  laitv.  All 
members  of  the  Church  are  subject  to 
call  to  render  service  and  carry  on  the 
activities  of  the  Church.  The  miracle 
is  the  members  respond! 

On  one  occasion  I  was  in  the  office 
of  President  Henry  D.  Moyle  when  he 
placed  a  call.  After  greeting  the  man, 
he  said,  "I  wonder  if  your  business 
affairs  would  bring  vou  into  Salt  Lake 
City  sometime  in  the  near  future?  I 
would  like  to  meet  with  you  and  your 
wife,  for  I  have  a  matter  of  some 
importance  that  I  would  like  to  discuss 
with  you." 

Though  it  was  many  miles  away, 
that  man  suddenly  remembered  that 


Third  Day 

his  business  would  bring  him  to  Salt 
Lake  City  the  very  next  morning.  I 
was  there  when  President  Moyle  an- 
nounced to  this  man  that  he  had  been 
called  to  preside  over  one  of  the  mis- 
sions of  the  Church. 

"Now,"  he  said,  "we  don't  want  to 
rush  you  into  this  decision.  Call  me  in 
a  day  or  two,  as  soon  as  you  are  able 
to  make  a  determination  as  to  your 
feelings  concerning  the  call." 

The  man  looked  at  his  wife  and  she 
looked  at  him,  and  without  a  word 
there  was  that  silent  conversation 
between  husband  and  wife,  and  that 
gentle  almost  imperceptible  nod.  He 
turned  back  to  President  Moyle  and 
said,  "Well,  President,  what  is  there 
to  say?  What  could  we  tell  you  in  a 
few  days  that  we  couldn't  tell  you 
now?  We  have  been  called.  What 
answer  is  there?  Of  course,  we  will 
respond  to  the  call." 

Then  President  Moyle  said  gently, 
"Well,  if  you  feel  that  way  about  it, 
actually  there  is  some  urgency  about 
this  matter.  I  wonder  if  you  could  be 
prepared  to  leave  the  13th  of  March?" 

The  man  gulped,  for  that  was  just 
eleven  days  away.  He  glanced  at  his 
wife.  There  was  another  silent  conver- 
sation. And  he  said,  "Yes,  President, 
we  can  meet  that  appointment." 

'What  about  vour  business?"  asked 
the  President.  'What  about  your  grain 
elevator?  What  about  your  livestock? 
What  about  your  other  holdings?" 

"I  don't  know,"  said  the  man.  "But 
we  will  make  arrangements.  Somehow 
all  of  those  things  will  be  all  right." 

Such  is  the  great  miracle  that  we 
see  repeated  day  after  day.  These  men, 
each  with  his  wife  and  family,  leave 
their  private  affairs  settled  as  best  they 
can  with  relatives  or  partners.  Thev 
respond  to  the  call,  giving  up  political 
preference,  opportunities  for  promo- 
tions and  advancements  in  their 
careers,  opportunities  to  enlarge  their 
holdings  and  increase  their  wealth. 

One  of  the  marvelous  testimonies  we 
witness  regularly  is  the  generosity  of 
nonmember  employers.  They  not  only 
permit  but  indeed  encourage  men  who 
may  be  their  key  executive  officers  to 
respond  to  such  calls  and  reassure 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


147 


them  with  this  farewell:  "We  do  not 
understand  it,  but  we  compliment  you 
on  your  dedication.  We  assure  you 
that  you  can  return  with  full  status." 

The  generosity  of  such  men,  though 
not  members  of  the  Church,  will  not 
go  unheeded.  To  you,  our  friends,  who 
have  been  thus  generous,  we  say  that 
you  are  within  the  scope  of  our 
prayers,  and  blessings  will  accrue  to 
your  benefit. 

Perhaps  the  most  remarkable  thing 
about  the  men  and  women  who  serve 
is  their  willingness  to  pay  for  the 
privilege. 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the 
storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  here- 
with, saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven, 
and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive 
it."  (Mai.  3:10.) 

Without  any  dunners  or  any  billing 
or  any  system  of  collections,  ten  per- 
cent of  their  increase  is  generously 
donated.  Indeed,  this  is  just  the  begin- 
ning. There  is  a  fast  offering  to  sustain 
the  poor;  there  are  building  funds; 
there  are  donations  of  every  kind.  Such 
giving  robs  them  of  selfishness.  It  is 
one  thing  to  give  lip  service — it  is 
another  to  order  one's  life. 

These  are  men  and  women  who  are 
"in  the  world"  but  "not  of  the  world." 
They  are  Saints — Latter-day  Saints — 
and  there  are  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  them.  The  test,  of  course,  is  not  in 
numbers  only.  To  know  the  so-called 
"secret,"  one  must  see  within  the  heart 
of  the  individual. 

It  is  no  light  thing  to  open  one's 
heart  and  expose  the  most  tender  and 
delicate  feelings.  I  hesitatingly  do  so 
only  from  the  feeling  that  it  may  help 
someone,  that  it  may  illustrate,  that 
you  may  understand  that  the  gospel 
has  practical  application  in  everyday 
life;  but  most  of  all  because  it  is 
Easter. 

Just  more  than  a  year  ago,  my 
mother  passed  away,  a  lovely  trim 
little  mother  of  eleven  children,  about 
whom  I  have  spoken  before  at  this 
pulpit.  Her  parents  emigrated  from 
the  old  country,  and  she  grew  up 
speaking  Danish. 


Two  years  ago  she  contracted  a 
fatal  malady.  Fortunately,  she  was 
under  the  care  of  a  doctor  who  was 
like  a  son;  his  ministering  to  her 
showed  such  a  reverence.  She  faced  the 
experience  all  too  common  among  us, 
the  gradual  weakening  and  erosion  of 
her  capacities,  accompanied  by  increas- 
ing pain.  At  this  time  one  of  my 
brothers  in  company  with  the  patriarch 
gave  her  a  blessing,  as  authorized 
under  the  revelation  that  specifies  that 
"the  elders  of  the  church,  two  or  more, 
shall  be  called,  and  shall  pray  for  and 
lay  their  hands  upon  them  in  my 
name;  and  if  they  die  they  shall  die 
unto  me,  and  if  they  live  they  shall 
live  unto  me."  (D&C  42:44.) 

In  a  marvelous  way  she  was  released 
from  pain  and  could  rest  comfortably, 
except  when  moved  about.  She  faced 
the  long  ordeal  of  the  decline. 

One  Friday  afternoon  at  my  desk, 
while  I  was  working  on  correspon- 
dence, it  suddenly  occurred  to  me  that 
we  should  go  and  visit  Mother.  It  was 
a  very  strong  impression.  We  made  the 
trip  that  very  day. 

We  found  Mother  about  the  same  as 
we  had  seen  her  on  a  number  of  pre- 
vious visits.  She  seemed  more  apprecia- 
tive than  usual  for  our  visit.  She 
then  whispered  over  and  over  again 
the  single  word,  "Tomorrow."  Finally, 
I  understood  and  said,  "Mother,  is 
tomorrow  the  day?"  She  smiled  a 
radiant  smile  that  brightened  the  face 
of  this  weakened  little  lady.  "Yes," 
she  said.  "Mother,  are  you  sure?"  "Oh, 
yes,"  she  said.  "I  am  sure." 

I  then  asked  if  she  would  like  to 
have  a  blessing.  "That  would  be  good," 
she  said. 

That  evening  the  brothers  came  as 
they  usually  did,  and  the  six  of  us 
administered  to  her.  The  spirit  of  in- 
spiration was  present,  and  the  words 
of  the  blessing  hold  a  sacred  assurance 
to  our  family. 

I  was  under  the  necessity  of  meeting 
a  conference  appointment  in  Panguitch 
[Utah]  the  following  day,  and  hesi- 
tated; but  finally  I  felt  that  I  must  be 
about  the  ministry  to  which  I  have 
been  called.  The  doctor  assured  us  that 
there  was  no  change,  and  it  was  sug- 


148  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

gested  that  I  call  them  on  Sunday 
evening  when  I  returned. 

"Oh,  no,"  I  said.  "I'll  check  with 
you  tomorrow." 

On  Saturday,  the  tomorrow  about 
which  she  spoke,  I  called  before 
leaving.  The  doctor  had  been  there, 
and  everything  was  as  before.  Upon 
arriving  at  my  destination  I  called 
again  and  received  the  same  assurance. 
After  the  first  meeting  I  placed 
another  call  and  was  informed  that 
Mother  had  slept  peacefully  away,  sur- 
rounded by  her  family.  The  last  words 
she  was  heard  to  speak  were  "Ira,  Ira," 
the  name  of  my  father,  who  by  six 
years  had  preceded  her  in  death. 

This  then  is  the  secret:  In  a  thou- 
sand quiet,  spiritual  ways,  that  witness 
comes.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 


Third  Day 

true.  I  bear  solemn  witness  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.  I  know,  and  she  knew, 
that  he  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life 
and  that  as  he  said,  "he  that  believeth 
in  me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall 
he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die."  (John  11:25- 
26.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve  and  President  of  the  New 
England  Mission,  has  just  spoken  to 
us. 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


It  has  been  a  great  blessing  through 
this  conference  to  have  with  us  Brother 
Ivins,  our  dearly  loved  and  respected 
associate.  He  isn't  here  at  this  meeting, 
but  I  think  it  not  inappropriate  to  tell 
you  that  he  has  been  very  ill  and 
through  the  graciousness  of  the  Lord 
has  been  restored  marvelously  and  is 
able  to  be  with  us  occasionally.  He  has 
been  in  meetings  of  this  conference. 

I  would  like  to  commend  also  the 
appointment  of  President  Cullimore,  a 
strong  and  choice  associate  in  the  mis- 
sionary cause  in  England — a  man  of 
great  substance  and  faith  and  strength. 

I  was  thinking  a  few  moments  ago 
about  a  meeting  in  Idaho  at  which  I 
listened  to  a  speaker  who  had  waited 
for  a  long  time  to  be  called  on.  He 
commended  the  people  at  the  meeting 
for  their  graciousness  to  him,  expressed 
appreciation  for  their  kindness,  thanked 
them  for  making  him  feel  at  home,  and 
said,  "You  have  really  made  me  feel 
like  one  of  you.  I  don't  know  which 
one,  but  he  ought  to  be  about  ready 
to  go  home — he's  tired!" 

As  I  have  listened  with  you  to  the 
great  sermons  of  this  conference  and 
to  the  marvelous  music  and  have  felt 


the  spirit  and  enjoyed  the  instructions, 
like  you  I  have  paid  many  of  the 
speakers  the  tribute  of  divided  atten- 
tion. Their  sermons  have  started  me 
thinking.  Two  thoughts  in  particular 
have  recurred.  The  repeated  references 
to  the  modern  movement  celebrating 
the  demise  of  God  have  recalled  a 
reported  exchange  between  Nietzsche 
and  another.  Nietzsche's  message  read, 
"God  is  dead."  Signed  "Nietzsche." 
The  answer  came  back,  "Nietzsche  is 
dead."  Signed  "God." 

The  other  thought:  Someone  said 
that  atheists  do  not  find  God  for  the 
same  reason  that  thieves  do  not  find 
policemen. 

During  these  conference  sessions  I 
have  been  thinking  of  you — you  and 
your  counterparts  all  over  the  Church, 
all  over  the  world — you  who  do  so 
much  of  the  meaningful  work  of  the 
Church  in  your  own  area  and  sector. 
I  am  sure  that  you,  like  I,  will  go  home 
with  the  desire  and  determination, 
born  of  appreciation,  to  apply  and 
make  use  of  what  has  been  said  here. 

Perhaps  you  will  go  home  strength- 
ened in  two  pivotal  principles  around 
which  our  efforts  revolve. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


149 


Great  worth  of  souls 

The  first  is  provocatively  expressed 
in  a  few  words  shared  with  me  by  a 
choice  friend  sometime  ago.  I  suspect 
you  will  remember  them  as  I  have. 
He  said:  "You  can  count  the  seeds  in 
an  apple,  but  can  you  count  the  apples 
in  a  seed?" 

".  .  .  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in 
the  sight  of  God.  .  .  ."  (D&C  18:10.) 
The  worth  of  the  individual  soul  is 
great  in  the  sight  of  God  and  in  the 
lives  of  those  who  love  God  and  seek 
to  express  this  love  through  affectionate 
service  to  his  children. 

In  order  that  we  might  cooperate 
with  our  Heavenly  Father  in  his  stated 
purpose  to  "bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man,"  we 
have  been  blessed  with  the  gospel,  the 
Church,  and  the  priesthood. 

Plan  for  exalting  man 

The  gospel  is  God's  plan  for  the 
exalting  of  man  to  an  eternal  creative 
opportunity  with  his  Father  through 
giving  him  a  vision  of  his  great  origins 
and  heritage,  his  purposes  and  respon- 
sibilities, and  his  inspiring  potential. 

The  Church  is  the  institutional 
embodiment  of  the  gospel,  the  organi- 
zation through  which  one  may 
experience  and  express  the  great  prin- 
ciples of  God's  plan. 

The  priesthood  is  the  power  by 
which  God  and  his  sons  move  in 
spiritual  leadership.  And  all  of  these — 
gospel,  Church,  priesthood — are  de- 
signed to  bless  man  and  bring  about 
God's  purposes  for  him. 

The  earth  itself  was  prepared  for 
man.  "Behold,  the  Lord  hath  created 
the  earth  that  it  should  be  inhabited; 
and  he  hath  created  his  children  that 
they  should  possess  it."  (1  Ne.  17:36.) 

The  individual,  then,  is  the  focal 
point  of  all  the  programs  and  per- 
formance of  the  Church — not  the 
program  itself,  not  the  statistics.  Not 
institutional  expansion  hut  individual 
exaltation  is  the  purpose  of  it  all. 

The  implications  of  the  thought  are 
clear:  "You  can  count  the  seeds  in  an 
apple,  but  can  you  count  the  apples  in 
a  seed?" 


Every  choice  child  of  God  is  a  link 
in  a  chain  stretching  from  the  past  to 
the  future.  In  the  choice  young  people 
of  the  Church  are  the  seeds  of  the 
future. 

Do  you  know  four  lines  that  mean 
much  to  me? 

"Nobody  knows  what  a  boy  is  worth; 

We'll  have  to  wait  and  see, 
But  every  man  in  a  noble  place 

A  boy  once  used  to  be." 

Each  boy  and  girl,  and  every  adult 
also,  is  infinitely  valuable.  None  is  to 
be  rejected,  none  written  off,  none 
neglected  or  left  without  the  conscious 
concern  of  devoted  brothers  and  sisters 
in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Responsible  for  influence 

This  leads,  then,  to  the  second  basic 
conviction  of  which  I  have  been  think- 
ing: Each  of  us  has  a  solemn  and 
significant  responsibility  to  others  of 
God's  children  and  the  capacity  to 
wholesomely  and  favorably  influence 
them  for  good  if  we  will.  We  are 
brothers  to  all  men,  and  we  have  a 
special  responsibility  to  those  of  our 
own  household  and  to  those  in  whose 
lives  we  may,  by  reason  of  our  church 
membership  and  by  reason  of  respon- 
sibilities assigned  us  in  the  various 
organizations  and  programs  of  the 
Church,  exert  some  important  influ- 
ence through  love. 

The  organization  of  the  Church 
makes  available  to  every  individual, 
old  and  young,  at  every  stage  in  his 
life,  strong  supportive  friendships  and 
leadership.  From  babyhood  through 
the  whole  of  life  every  individual 
should  have  available  always  the 
friendship  and  sincere  concern  of  a 
bishop  and  his  counselors,  of  priesthood 
and  auxiliary  organization  leaders  and 
workers,  of  interested  and  loving 
family  and  friends  and  neighbors 
relating  under  the  special  motivation 
and  inspiration  of  the  Lord  through 
his  Church.  Every  individual  all  of 
his  life  should  be  blessed  in  the 
Church  by  a  program  that  involves  the 
consistent  concern  of  teachers — home 
teachers  they  are  now  called — who  are 
assigned  to  a  special  relationship  of 
interest  and  helpfulness. 


150  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

Influence  of  teachers 

In  preparation  for  the  imminent 
organization  of  the  Church  in  1830, 
the  Lord  revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  His  representatives 
holding  the  priesthood  were  to  visit 
the  homes  of  the  members  of  the 
Church,  "exhorting  them  to  pray 
vocally  and  in  secret  and  attend  to  all 
family  duties. 

".  .  .  to  watch  over  the  church  al- 
ways, and  be  with  and  strengthen 
them; 

".  . .  And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity 
in  the  church,  neither  hardness  with 
each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting, 
nor  evil  speaking; 

"And  see  that  the  church  meet  to- 
gether often,  and  also  see  that  all  the 
members  do  their  duty." 

"They  are  ...  to  warn,  expound, 
exhort,  and  teach,  and  invite  all  to 
come  unto  Christ."  (D&C  20:51,  53-55, 
59.)  As  in  the  ancient  Church,  the 
members  of  the  Church  are  to  be 
"remembered  and  nourished  by  the 
good  word  of  God,  to  keep  them  in  the 
right  way,  to  keep  them  continually 
watchful  unto  prayer,  relying  alone 
upon  the  merits  of  Christ,  who  was 
the  author  and  the  finisher  of  their 
faith." 

And  to  "meet  together  oft,  to  fast 
and  to  pray,  and  to  speak  one  with 
another  concerning  the  welfare  of  their 
souls."  (Moro.  6:4-5.) 

Influence  on  lives  of  others 

To  every  person  thus  blessed  by  of- 
fice or  assignment  or  membership  in 
the  Church  with  the  special  responsi- 
bility of  stewardship  and  concern  in 
the  lives  of  others,  the  Lord  said: 

"Therefore,  let  every  man  stand  in 
his  own  office,  and  labor  in  his  own 
calling;  and  let  not  the  head  say  unto 
the  feet  it  hath  no  need  of  the  feet; 
for  without  the  feet  how  shall  the 
body  be  able  to  stand? 

"Also  the  body  hath  need  of  every 
member,  that  all  may  be  edified 
together,  that  the  system  may  be  kept 
perfect."  (D&C  84:109-110.) 

Illustrations: 

Let  me  spend  a  few  minutes  illus- 


Third  Day 

trating  the  great  importance  of  our 
responsibilities  to  each  other  under 
these  sacred  assignments  from  the 
Lord  to  be  stewards  in  his  kingdom. 

In  one  of  the  stakes  of  the  Church 
in  another  land,  a  lovely  young  lady 
left  her  home  to  live  in  another  city 
where  she  had  found  employment.  She 
was  away  from  family  and  established 
friends  and  from  the  Church  and  its 
warm  involvements.  She  didn't  take 
occasion  to  look  up  the  church  organi- 
zation in  the  city  to  which  she  went, 
finding  it  easy  for  a  time  to  avoid  the 
customary  associations  of  her  church 
membership.  She  formed  other  associa- 
tions in  the  new  city,  and  they  were 
not  the  kind  she  had  had  at  home. 
Gradually  she  began  to  become  in- 
volved in  another  kind  of  attitude  and 
another  kind  of  behavior.  She  had  not 
made  serious  mistakes  but  had  begun 
a  way  of  living  that  would  not  have 
pleased  her  parents  and  that  was  not 
the  manner  of  her  former  life. 

There  came  a  night  when,  dressed 
in  clothing  that  she  might  previously 
have  been  embarrassed  to  wear  in 
public,  perhaps  harboring  in  her  mind 
anticipations  of  conduct  that  she 
would  not  ever  have  considered  before, 
she  waited  for  the  arrival  of  some  of 
her  new  friends.  It  was  a  critical  hour 
in  her  life  and  a  critical  night  in  her 
life,  and  she  knew  it.  When  she  an- 
swered the  knock  at  the  door,  she  was 
surprised  to  find  not  those  whom  she 
was  anticipating  but  rather  three 
adults  whom  she  did  not  know.  They 
identified  themselves  as  the  bishop 
and  his  counselor  and  the  president  of 
the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association.  The  bishop  had  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  the  bishop  of  the 
girl's  home  ward  notifying  him  of  the 
address  and  circumstance  of  his  ward 
member  in  the  new  city.  The  bishop 
and  his  associates  were  calling  to  ex- 
press their  friendship  and  concern  and 
to  invite  the  young  lady  to  the 
activities  and  associations  of  the 
Church  in  this  town.  As  she  talked 
with  them  she  became  embarrassed  at 
her  clothing,  chagrined  at  the  activities 
of  the  recent  past  and  the  anticipations 
of  the  evening.  She  wept  and  rejoiced 
and  responded  gratefully  to  the  friend- 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


151 


ship  of  this  bishop  and  his  fellow 
workers.  The  anticipated  events  of  the 
evening  never  transpired.  She  formed 
the  warm  and  wonderful  friendships 
she  needed  with  people  of  quality  and 
devotion.  She  became  active  in  the 
Church  and  went  on  to  her  happy  and 
wholesome  opportunities. 

In  another  city,  long  enough  ago 
that  the  story  can  now  be  told  without 
likelihood  of  the  recognition  of  the 
individuals  involved,  I  heard  another 
and  different  story. 

Let's  use  the  name  Donna  to  desig- 
nate another  sweet  young  lady  who 
left  her  home  for  a  nearby  bigger  city 
for  employment.  She  had  a  great  desire 
to  attend  a  church  university  and 
needed  funds  to  help  her  achieve  her 
ambition.  She  failed  to  find  work  in 
the  big  city,  and  as  time  went  by  she 
became  more  and  more  discouraged. 
Then,  through  a  series  of  incidents, 
she  came  into  the  influence  of  an 
unscrupulous  and  (designing  person 
who  took  advantage  of  Donna's  loneli- 
ness and  youthfulness  and  the  dis- 
couragement of  her  inability  to  find 
work  and  led  her  into  an  immoral 
experience. 

The  experience  was  horrifying  to 
Donna,  and  she  returned  home  with  a 
broken  heart  to  tell  her  mother  and, 
after  a  time,  her  bishop  of  the  tragedy, 

There  was  counsel  and  compassion, 
admonition  and  direction,  prayer  and 
blessing.  Donna  went  back  home  to 
make  her  adjustments  and  to  begin  to 
learn  the  sorrow  of  remorse  of  con- 
science and  the  blessing  of  gratitude 
for  the  graciousness  and  goodness  and 
mercy  of  God.  Then  one  day  she  had 
to  counsel  again  with  the  bishop,  to 
report  to  him  that  through  this  one 
fragmentary,  tragic  experience  it  was 
now  apparent  that  she  was  with  child. 
Now  a  different  situation  existed,  and 
there  was  additional  counsel  and  an 
effort  to  meet  this  new  situation. 
There  was  consideration  of  the  Relief 
Society  Social  Service  program,  which 
provides  for  such  situations,  and  other 
possibilities  were  considered;  but  the 
decision  was  finally  made  by  Donna 
that  she  would  remain  at  home  in  her 
small  town  to  wait  her  time.  Some 


efforts  were  made  at  dissuasion  in  view 
of  the  problems  this  course  involved, 
but  Donna  decided  that,  under  the 
special  circumstances  of  her  widowed 
mother's  illness  and  otherwise,  she 
would  remain  there. 

Donna  stood  up  in  the  next  fast  and 
testimony  meeting  and  explained  her 
condition.  She  acknowledged  her  fault 
and  asked  the  forgiveness  of  her  people. 
She  said  to  them,  "I  would  like  to 
walk  the  streets  of  this  town  knowing 
that  you  know  and  that  you  have 
compassion  on  me  and  forgive  me.  But 
if  you  cannot  forgive  me,"  she  said, 
"please  don't  blame  my  mother — the 
Lord  knows  she  taught  me  anything 
but  this — and  please  don't  hold  it 
against  the  baby.  It  isn't  the  baby's 
fault."  She  bore  testimony  of  apprecia- 
tion for  her  bitterly  won  but  dearly 
treasured  personal  knowledge  of  the 
importance  of  the  saving  mission  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Then  she  sat  down. 

The  man  who  told  me  the  story 
reported  the  reaction  of  the  congrega- 
tion to  this  experience.  There  were 
many  tearful  eyes  and  many  humble 
hearts.  "There  were  no  stone  throwers 
there,"  he  said.  "We  were  full  of 
compassion  and  love,  and  I  found 
myself  wishing  that  the  bishop  would 
close  the  meeting  and  let  us  leave  with 
this  sense  of  appreciation  and  concern 
and  gratitude  to  God." 

The  bishop  did  rise,  but  he  didn't 
close  the  meeting.  Instead  he  said, 
"Brothers  and  sisters,  Donna's  story 
has  saddened  and  touched  us  all.  She 
has  courageously  and  humbly  accepted 
full  responsibility  for  her  sorrowful 
situation.  She  has,  in  effect,  put  a  list 
of  sinners  on  the  wall  of  the  chapel 
with  only  her  name  on  the  list.  I  can- 
not in  honesty  leave  it  there  alone.  At 
least  one  other  name  must  be  written 
— the  name  of  one  who  is  in  part  re- 
sponsible for  this  misfortune,  though 
he  was  far  away  when  the  incident 
occurred.  The  name  is  a  familiar  one 
to  you.  It  is  the  name  of  your  bishop. 
You  see,"  he  said,  "had  I  fully  per- 
formed the  duties  of  my  calling  and 
accepted  the  opportunities  of  my  lead- 
ership, perhaps  I  could  have  prevented 
this  tragedy." 


152  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  10 

The  bishop  then  told  of  his  conver- 
sation with  Donna  and  her  mother 
before  her  departure  for  the  big  city. 
He  said  that  he  had  talked  with  some 
of  his  associates.  He  had  talked  with 
his  wife,  expressing  concern  for 
Donna's  well-being.  He  worried  about 
her  lack  of  experience  and  her  loneli- 
ness. He  had  talked,  he  said,  with  the 
Lord  about  these  things  also. 

"But  then,"  he  said,  "I  did  nothing. 
I  didn't  write  a  note  to  the  bishop  or 
to  the  brethren  in  Salt  Lake  City.  I 
didn't  pick  up  the  telephone.  I  didn't 
drive  a  few  miles  to  the  big  city.  I  just 
hoped  and  prayed  that  Donna  would 
be  all  right  down  there  all  alone.  I 
don't  know  what  I  might  have  done, 
but  I  have  the  feeling  that  had  I  been 
the  kind  of  bishop  I  might  have  been, 
this  might  have  been  prevented. 

"My  brothers  and  sisters,"  he  said, 
"I  don't  know  how  long  I  am  going  to 
be  bishop  of  this  ward.  But  as  long  as 
I  am,  if  there  is  anything  I  can  do 
about  it,  this  won't  happen  again  to 
one  of  mine." 

The  bishop  sat  down  in  tears.  His 
counselor  stood  up  and  said,  "I  love 
the  bishop.  He  is  one  of  the  best  and 
most  conscientious  human  beings  I 
have  ever  known.  I  cannot  leave  his 
name  there  on  the  list  without  adding 
my  own.  You  see,  the  bishop  did  talk 
with  his  associates.  He  talked  with  me 
about  this  matter.  I  think  that  he 
thought  that  because  I  travel  occasion- 
ally in  my  business  through  the  big 
city,  I  might  find  a  way  to  check  on 
Donna.  I  might  have  done,  but  I  was 
hurrying  to  this  meeting  or  that  assign- 
ment and  I  didn't  take  the  time.  I  too 
talked  with  others.  I  mentioned  my 
concern  to  my  wife.  I  am  almost 
ashamed  to  tell  you  I  talked  to  the 
Lord  and  asked  him  to  help  Donna. 
And  then  I  did  nothing.  I  don't  know 
what  might  have  happened  had  I  done 
what  I  thought  to  do,  but  I  have  the 
feeling  that  I  might  have  prevented 
this  misfortune. 

"Brothers  and  sisters,"  he  said,  "I 
don't  know  how  long  I  will  be  serving 
in  this  bishopric,  but  I  want  to  tell 
you  that  as  long  as  I  am,  if  there  is 
anything  I  can  do  about  it,  this  will 
not  happen  again  to  one  of  mine." 


Third  Day 

The  president  of  the  YWMIA  stood 
up  and  told  a  similar  story.  The 
bishop's  counselor  in  charge  of  this 
auxiliary  organization  had  talked  with 
her.  She  had  had  some  moments  of 
thought  and  concern  but  had  done 
nothing.  She  added  her  name  to  the 
list. 

The  last  witness  was  an  older  man 
who  stood  and  added  two  names  to 
the  list — his  own  and  that  of  his  com- 
panion ward  teacher.  He  noted  that 
they  were  assigned  to  the  home  in 
which  Donna  and  her  mother  lived 
and  that  they  had  failed  in  some  visits 
and  made  no  effective  effort  to  be  the 
kind  of  teachers  that  the  revelations  of 
God  had  contemplated. 

"I  don't  know  how  long  I  will  be 
a  ward  teacher,"  he  said,  "but  as  long 
as  I  am,  I  will  not  miss  another  home 
another  month,  and  I  will  try  to  be 
the  kind  of  teacher  that  the  Lord 
seemed  to  have  in  mind." 

The  meeting  ended,  and  the  won- 
derful man  who  shared  this  great 
experience  with  me  said,  "Brother 
Hanks,  I  think  we  could  not  have  more 
clearly  understood  the  importance  of 
the  offices  and  officers  and  organiza- 
tions in  the  Church  if  the  Lord  himself 
had  come  down  to  teach  us.  I  think 
that  if  Paul  had  come  to  repeat  his 
instructions  to  the  Corinthians  that 
'the  eye  cannot  say  unto  the  hand,  I 
have  no  need  of  thee:  nor  again  the 
head  to  the  feet,  I  have  no  need  of 
you.  Nay  .  .  .  the  members  should 
have  the  same  care  one  for  another. 
And  whether  one  member  suffer,  all 
the  members  suffer  with  it;  or  one 
member  be  honoured,  all  the  members 
rejoice  with  it'  (1  Cor.  12:21-22,  25- 
26.) — I  think  we  could  not  have  under- 
stood the  point  more  clearly." 

A  number  of  years  ago  Brother 
Joseph  Anderson  and  I  had  the  privi- 
lege of  driving  with  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  to  a  solemn  assem- 
bly in  St.  George.  On  the  way  I  related 
to  him  this  story,  it  having  recently 
happened  then.  He  thought  a  long 
time  and  had  a  tear  in  his  eye  as  he 
said,  "Brother  Hanks,  that  is  the  most 
significant  story  I  ever  heard  to  illus- 
trate the   great   importance   of  our 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


153 


filling  our  individual  obligations  in 
the  Church.  When  you  have  thought 
about  it  long  enough,  pass  it  on  to 
others." 

I  have  thought  about  it  long  and 
often.  I  believe  it  illustrates  power- 
fully and  humblingly  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  in  establishing  his  kingdom 
and  permitting  us  the  blessing  of  indi- 
vidual service  therein.  I  now  share  it 
with  you  and  pray  God  to  bless  us  all 


to  understand  its  implications  and  to 
act  on  them,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  McKay  has  consented  to 
give  us  a  parting  message,  and  we  will 
now  be  blessed  by  what  he  has  for  us, 
after  which  there  will  be  some  an- 
nouncements to  make. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  had  a 
glorious  conference.  I  do  not  know 
when  I  have  been  more  thrilled  with 
the  messages  than  I  have  been  by  those 
given  at  this  conference,  which  began 
on  the  sixth  and  has  continued 
through  Saturday  and  Sunday. 

Response  to  calls  of  duty 

One  thing  has  stood  out  in  my  mind 
as  most  significant.  It  is  the  response 
of  brethren  and  sisters  to  calls  to  duty, 
either  in  the  Church  locally  or  away 
on  calls  that  require  absence  from  the 
town  in  which  they  live.  I  have  been 
impressed  with  the  responsiveness  of 
men,  women,  and  children  to  a  call 
of  the  Church  to  duty  that  they  need 
to  perform  at  home  or  abroad. 

Peace  Corps 

The  government  has  a  great  plan 
for  calling  the  youth  of  the  country 
to  perform  service,  not  for  themselves 
but  a  mission  for  the  country  itself. 
They  are  not  succeeding  so  well  as 
they  had  anticipated  in  getting  the 
young  men  of  the  United  States  to  fill 
the  calls  made.  But  you  do  not  find 
a  responsiveness  to  duty  unheeded  by 
the  membership  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Calls  to  serve  in  the  Church 

I  have  had  occasion  to  be  thrilled 
with  the  willingness  of  the  church 
membership  to  respond  to  the  call  of 
missionary  work,  whether  it  is  local  or 
foreign.  Every  man,  almost  without 
exception,  and  particularly  every 
woman  says  he  or  she  is  ready  to 


respond  to  any  call  that  the  Church 
makes.  I  don't  know  of  anything 
more  impressive  in  this  Church  than 
this  response  to  a  call  to  service  by 
these  faithful  members.  When  you 
think  of  the  thousands  of  missionaries, 
most  of  them  men,  but  many  of  them 
women,  who  are  giving  their  time, 
their  means,  in  response  to  calls  of 
bishops,  stake  presidents,  and  others 
in  the  service  of  this  great  Church,  it 
is  wonderful.  Many  have  said,  "I 
will  sell  my  home,  I  will  make  any 
sacrifice  in  order  to  fulfill  the  call  to 
duty." 

As  I  stand  here  before  you,  I  think 
I  cannot  refer  to  one  refusal  to  a  call 
to  duty.  I  have  in  mind  a  postpone- 
ment for  a  year,  or  for  six  months  and 
sometimes  more,  but  I  cannot  think  of 
one  person  who  has  said,  "I  cannot 
accept  a  call."  One  of  them  might 
say,  "Give  me  six  months,  a  year,  two 
years,  and  I  will  fulfill  the  call,  the 
duty,  that  you  now  give  me." 

Yes,  I  can  think  of  one,  a  young 
man,  who  said,  "No,  I  think  I  can't 
fulfill  that  call."  He  is  thinking  of  it 
now  and  worrying.  He  will  accept  it, 
I  am  sure;  if  he  is  given  a  few  months, 
maybe  six  months,  he  will  come  back 
and  say,  "I  will  take  that  call  and  do 
the  best  I  can." 

Now,  when  you  multiply  the  calls 
in  the  missionary  area  alone,  it  is 
wonderful  that  the  membership  of  the 
Church  is  so  responsive  to  any  duty, 
any  responsibility  that  the  Church 
desires  of  them.  It  is  apparent  to  all 
the  Church,  this  responsiveness  of  the 
membership  to  the  call  to  duty;  it  is 


154 

Sunday,  April  10 

an  outstanding  feature  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Young  men,  young  women,  older 
men,  and  older  women,  stand  ready  to 
respond  to  a  call  of  the  Church  and 
to  make  any  sacrifice  necessary  in 
order  to  give  the  call  of  the  Church 
preference  in  preaching  the  gospel,  not 
only  a  missionary  call  that  requires  a 
sacrifice  to  duty,  but  the  rendering  of 
finances,  sometimes  reaching  millions 
of  dollars,  in  order  to  make  the  call 
more  successful  as  a  service  to  the 
Church. 

What  I  am  saying  is  this:  that  every 
man  and  every  woman  with  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  his  or  her  heart  will 
deny  himself  or  herself  in  order  to 
make  the  calls  to  the  work  of  the  Lord 
successful.  It  is  not  only  a  half-dozen 
persons  that  I  am  referring  to,  but 
thousands  in  this  Church  will  give  an 
affirmative  response  to  the  call  to  an 
office  in  a  ward  or  a  stake. 

Brethren,  I  am  saying  to  you  with 
appreciation,  God  bless  you  for  your 
ready  response  to  the  calls  that  come 
to  you  either  in  your  ward  or  stake 
or  area.  And  the  Lord  is  mindful  of 
your  willingness  to  make  a  ready  re- 
sponse and  to  do  what  you  can  to 
extend  the  work  of  the  Lord  at  home 
and  abroad. 

Some  of  you  may  feel  as  though  the 
General  Authorities  are  unappreciative, 
but  I  want  you  to  know  that  we  appre- 
ciate more  than  ever  before  in  the 
history  of  this  Church  the  willingness 
of  men  and  women  to  respond  to  the 
service  which  the  Church  needs  in 
the  furtherance  of  the  establishment 
of  the  gospel. 

God  bless  you  I  Don't  feel  discour- 
aged. ". .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  his  righteousness,"  and  all 
else  will  be  added.  (Matt.  6:33.)  You 
are  showing  your  willingness  thus  to 
do  your  best  and  give  your  all  if 
necessary. 

I  have  in  mind  men  who  say,  "Well, 
if  you  need  us  in  this  area,  if  you  need 
more  help,  if  you  need  money,  just 
let  us  know."  It  is  the  spirit  of  will- 
ingness and  the  response  to  the  call 
of  duty  that  overwhelms  us  sometimes. 
I  am  saying  at  the  end  of  this  glorious 
conference  that  never  before  in  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

history  of  the  Church  has  there  been 
manifest  such  willingness  to  give 
financially  or  intellectually  anything 
the  Lord  wants  of  you  as  is  manifest 
throughout  the  Church  today. 

Blessings  for  willingness  to  serve 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  for  your 
willingness  to  deny  yourselves  physi- 
cally, intellectually,  and  temporally 
for  the  good  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  should  like  to  say  this  in  better 
terms,  but  I  cannot  express  it  as  I 
should  like  to.  Not  only  are  my  legs 
defiant,  but  my  tongue  gets  twisted. 

The  Lord  bless  you  in  your  homes, 
in  your  church  appointments,  whether 
at  home  or  abroad.  God  bless  you, 
you  young  men  and  girls,  in  living  the 
honorable  life  your  parents  would  have 
you  live;  and  God  will  make  you 
happy  by  being  true  to  the  ideals  of 
virtue  and  purity  and  will  bring  hap- 
piness to  your  parents,  happiness  to 
your  wards,  happiness  to  the  member- 
ship of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  ask  that  you  uphold  and  sustain 
your  authorities  in  the  wards  and  the 
stakes.  Be  true  to  the  standards  of 
right  as  taught  by  your  fathers  and 
mothers.  Be  true  to  your  individual 
selves  by  upholding  the  ideals  of  right- 
eousness, I  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

I  am  sure  it  is  very  fitting  that  we 
should  have  a  few  words  from  the 
President  at  the  close  of  our  great 
Conference. 

President  McKay  wishes  me  to  ex- 
press appreciation  for  him  and  for  all 
of  us  to  the  various  ones  who  have 
furnished  music  during  this  Confer- 
ence. First,  we  express  our  continuing 
appreciation  for  the  great  work  being 
done  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  We 
commend  Brother  Condie  and  his  as- 
sociates, Brother  Schreiner,  and  his 
assistants,  for  the  marvelous  missionary 
work  they  are  doing,  and  we  thank 
them  sincerely  for  their  outstanding 
musical  contribution  to  this  Con- 
ference. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


155 


The  Primary  Children's  chorus  fur- 
nished the  music  Wednesday  morning, 
and  all  who  were  present  were  im- 
pressed as  these  little  tots  sang  from 
their  hearts  like  little  birds.  We  thank 
them  and  those  who  were  responsible 
for  them,  who  trained  them  and 
brought  them  here. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  Brigham 
Young  University  combined  choruses, 
who  furnished  the  music  in  the  after- 
noon on  Wednesday.  These  young 
people  are  just  a  few  steps  ahead  of 
the  Primary  children,  and  sang  also 
from  their  hearts.  We  appreciated  the 
enthusiasm  with  which  they  sang;  we 
appreciate  the  quality  of  the  music 
they  rendered. 

The  Ogden  LDS  Institute  Chorale, 
who  furnished  the  music  for  the  Satur- 
day afternoon  session,  brought  home 
to  us  the  importance  of  our  institute 
and  seminary  work,  many  of  them 
going  to  their  classes  at  7  o'clock  in 
the  morning.  They  made  a  real  con- 
tribution. 

The  Boise  Mormonaires,  who  fur- 
nished the  music  for  the  Saturday 
evening  Priesthood  meeting.  We  all 
thrilled  as  we  heard  them.  We  con- 
gratulate them  and  their  leaders;  also 
the  conductors  and  organists  of  these 
various  organizations. 

At  the  Home  Teachers  meeting  that 
was  held  here,  nearly  500  home 
teachers  from  Las  Vegas  and  the  Vir- 
gin River  Regions  were  seated  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  overflowed  on  both 
sides,  and  they  sang  as  though  they 
were  all  trained  singers.  I  really  didn't 
know  there  was  that  much  music  in 
the  south.  We  thank  all  of  them  very 
sincerely,  and  pray  God's  blessings 
upon  them. 

President  McKay  wishes  me  to  ex- 
press too  his  appreciation  to  all  who 
have  contributed  to  the  success  and 
inspiration  of  this  great  Conference. 
He  is  especially  grateful  to  the  General 
Authorities  who  delivered  timely  and 
inspirational  messages.  He  appreciates 
the  careful  and  efficient  attention 
given  by  local  and  national  press  rep- 
resentatives, and  by  representatives  of 
radio  and  television  in  reporting  the 
sessions  of  this  Conference. 

We  express  appreciation  for  the  co- 


operation of  city  officials,  the  city 
traffic  officers  handling  carefully  and 
ably  the  increased  traffic;  the  Fire 
Department,  the  Red  Cross,  who  have 
been  on  hand  to  render  assistance  and 
service  whenever  and  wherever  needed. 

We  thank  the  Tabernacle  ushers 
for  their  courtesy  and  consideration 
in  seating  the  great  audiences  of  this 
Conference. 

As  heretofore  mentioned,  we  are 
most  grateful  to  the  owners  and  man- 
agers of  the  many  radio  and  television 
stations  throughout  the  nation  and  our 
own  city,  who  have  carried  the  sessions 
of  this  Conference  from  coast  to  coast. 
Through  the  extensive  radio  and  tele- 
vision coverage  of  this  Annual  Con- 
ference, millions  have  been  able  to 
participate. 

We  again  wish  to  express  our  grati- 
tude and  thanks  for  these  beautiful 
flowers  on  the  stand  which  decorate 
the  rostrum  and  bring  a  feeling  of 
worship,  especially  at  Easter  time.  The 
daffodils  were  sent  to  us  by  the 
Tacoma  Stake;  the  call  a  lillies  were 
sent  by  the  Oakland-Berkley  Stake 
high  priests  quorum;  and  the  beautiful 
butterfly  orchids  were  sent  by  the  San 
Jose  West  Stake. 

We  wish  to  announce  that  tonight 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Con- 
ference will  convene  in  this  building 
at  7  o'clock.  All  Sunday  School  work- 
ers will  wish  to  be  in  attendance,  and 
the  public  is  cordially  invited. 

We  wish  again  to  admonish  all  to 
drive  carefully.  There  is  much  traffic 
on  the  highways.  Be  careful  and  you 
will  not  be  sorry. 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  is 
going  to  sing  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus," 
after  which  the  benediction  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  O.  Layton  Alldredge, 
formerly  president  of  the  South  African 
Mission,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Brother  Condie  requests  that  we  all 
stand  on  his  signal,  while  the  Choir 
sings  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus." 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Halle- 
lujah Chorus." 

Elder  O.  Layton  Allred,  formerly 
president  of  the  South  African  mission, 
offered  the  benediction. 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  was  presented  from 
9:35  to  10:00  a.m.  MST,  Sunday, 
April  10,  1966,  through  the  courtesy  of 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  net- 
work throughout  the  United  States, 
parts  of  Canada,  and  throughout  other 
facilities  to  several  points  overseas.  The 
broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  begins  playing  "As  the  Dew" 
on  signal  at  9:34:00  continuing  until 
9:34:50). 

(At  9:35:10  on  signal  organ  and 
Choir  break  into  "Gently  Raise"  sing- 
ing words  to  end  of  second  line,  and 
humming  to  end  of  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's background). 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music 
and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this 
hour  another  presentation  from  Tem- 
ple Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with 
Richard  Condie  conducting  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the  Spoken 
Word  by  Richard  Evans. 

(Pause) 

With  the  music  of  Henry  Carey  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  sings  these  words 
of  Charles  Wesley:  "Christ  the  Lord 
is  ris'n  today  .  .  .  Sons  of  men  and 
angels  say,  .  .  .  Raise  your  joys  and 
triumphs  high;  .  .  .  Sing,  ye  heav'ns, 
and  earth  reply,  Alleluia!" 

(Choir:  "Christ  The  Lord  Is  Risen 
Today"— Carey)  1:18— (2  verses) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  From  a  17th  century 
Westminster  Abbey  setting  Alexander 
Schreiner  turns  today  to  one  of  the 
writings  of  Henry  Purcell:  "Trumpet 
Voluntary." 

(Organ:  "Trumpet  Voluntary" — 
Purcell) 

3:00 

(Organ  background) 


Announcer:  "Mary  Magdalene  came 
and  told  the  disciples  that  she  had 
seen  the  Lord,  and  that  He  had 
spoken  these  things  unto  her.  Then 
the  same  day  at  evening,  being  the 
first  day  of  the  week,  when  the  doors 
were  shut  where  the  disciples  were  as- 
sembled .  .  .  came  Jesus  and  stood  in 
the  midst,  and  saith  unto  them,  peace 
be  unto  you."  (John  20:18-19) 

(Choir:  "Easter  Morning" — Chris- 
tiansen) 

2:10 

(Organ  background) 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

(Choir:  WITHOUT  ANNOUNCE- 
MENT— "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives" — Edwards) 

2:15 

Organ  background) 

(OPTIONAL)  Alexander  Schreiner 
recalls  John  B.  Dykes'  setting  for  the 
hymn:  Lead  Kindly  Light,  amid  th' 
encircling  gloom;  Lead  thou  me  on  .  .  . 
I  do  not  ask  to  see  The  distant  scene — 
one  step  enough  for  me." 

Organ:  (OPTIONAL)  —  "Lead 
Kindly  Light"— Dykes) 

As  Time  Permits 
(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
sings  a  profoundly  moving  theme  from 
The  Passion  by  Franz  Josef  Haydn, 
"Lamb  of  God,"  beginning  with  a  text 
from  the  23rd  chapter  of  Luke: 
"Father,  forgive  them  for  they  know 
not  what  they  do." 

The  Spoken  Word:  In  the  insight 
and  inspiration  which  God  has  given, 
a  Scottish  poet  wrote:  "The  holy  spirit 
of  the  Spring  is  working  silently."1 
And  Tennyson  and  Goethe  added: 
"Once  more  the  Heavenly  Power  makes 
all  things  new,  .  .  ."2  "So  then  the 
year  is  repeating  its  old  story  again. 
We  are  come  once  more,  thank  God! 
to  its  most  charming  chapter  ...  It 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  A 

always  makes  a  pleasant  impression  on 
us,  when  we  open  again  at  these  pages 
of  the  book  of  life."3  The  book  of 
life — a  theme  of  exceeding  signifi- 
cance, since  some  nineteen  centuries 
ago  Jesus  the  Christ  walked  among 
men,  and  proclaimed  the  eternal  pre- 
cepts of  everlasting  life.  His  coming 
was  foretold  by  prophets  whose  words 
are  witnessed  in  the  written  record. 
His  ministry,  His  message,  His  miracles 
were  witnessed  by  a  multitude  of  men 
— as  also  was  the  reality  of  His  resur- 
rection, as  He  appeared  to  His  apostles 
and  to  many  others  also,  "being  seen 
of  them  forty  days,  and  speaking  of  the 
things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  .  .  . 
And  when  he  had  spoken  these  things, 
while  they  beheld,  he  was  taken  up; 
and  a  cloud  received  him  out  of  their 
sight.  And  while  they  looked  sted- 
fastly  toward  heaven  as  he  went  up, 
behold,  two  men  stood  by  them  in 
white  apparel;  Which  also  said,  Ye 
men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing 
.  .  .  ?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken 
up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come 
in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him 
go  .  .  ."4  His  divinity,  the  literal 
reality  of  his  resurrection,  and  His 
coming  again  on  earth  are  the  very 
foundation  of  Christian  faith,  and  the 
assurance  unto  all  men  of  everlasting 
life.  And  this  day  we  would  witness 
of  the  certainty  of  such  assurance — the 
assurance  that  personality  is  perpetu- 
ated, and  truth  and  intelligence,  and 
that,  for  all  of  us,  everlasting  life 
with  our  loved  ones  is  the  very  es- 
sence and  intent  of  heaven  and  the 
hereafter — the  prime  motive  of  our 
Father's  plan  and  purpose,  a  purpose 
that  includes  renewal  of  association 
with  those  loved  ones  we  so  much 
miss — or  who  will  one  day  leave — as 


D  ORGAN  BROADCAST  157 

we  ourselves  shall.  "The  holy  spirit 
of  the  Spring  is  working  silently."1 
"We  open  again  at  these  pages  of  the 
book  of  life."3  "Once  more  the  Heav- 
enly Power  makes  all  things  new, 
.  .  ."2  To  all  of  this  we  would  add 
as  our  witness,  in  the  wonderful  words 
of  Job,  and  with  conviction  of  our 
own:  "I  know  that  my  redeemer 
liveth.  .  .  ."5 


1George  Macdonald,  Songs  of  Spring 
Days 

2Tennyson,  Early  Spring 

3Goethe 

4Acts  1:3,  9-11 

501d  Testament,  Job  19:25 

(Choir:  "Lamb  of  God" — Haydn) 
5:16 

(As  the  Dew)— Begin  by  27:30 

Announcer:  (Begin  by  27:55)  Again 
we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of 
the  everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be 
with  you  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  nineteen  hundred 
and  twelfth  presentation  and  continues 
the  37th  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  Organ.  The  Spoken  Word 
by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  Spoken  Word 
will  be  heard  again  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 

This  is  the  CBS  Radio  Network. 
28:55 


Index 


Anderson,  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  4,  6,  7,  8 

Auditing  Committee  Report,  Orval  W.  Adams,  chairman    9 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   4 

Authorities  and  Officers  Presented  and  Sustained   9,  10,  11,  12 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  128,  129,  130,  131,  132 

Testimony  of  Jesus  Christ,  123;  People:  all-important,  128;  Wisdom 
and  Understanding,  128;  Truth  through  religion  and  science,  129; 
Gain  stature,  129;  Favor  with  God  and  man,  130;  Vigorous  par- 
ticipation, 130;  Honest  toil,  130;  Apply  standard  of  truth,  131; 
Seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  God,  131;  Faithful  in  duty,  131. 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P  16,  17,  18 

Member  missionaries  to  use  the  exhibits,  17;  Exhibits  review  funda- 
mentals of  the  Restoration,  17;  Friends  and  neighbors  to  gain  the 
spirit  of  the  Restoration,  17. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B.  Brown  5,  6,  12,  15,  17,  23,  27,  51,  55,  59,  60, 

63,  68,  91,  92,  101,  105,  110,  133,  139,  140,  141,  142,  148,  153,  154 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B  116,  117,  118,  119,  120 

The  scriptures  testify  of  Him,  116;  Assurance  of  the  Resurrection, 
117;  Though  some  deny,  we  affirm  His  divinity,  117;  The  Father- 
hood of  God,  Godhood  of  Christ,  Brotherhood  of  Man,  we  affirm, 
118;  Prophecy  and  history  testify,  118;  Universality  of  God's  care, 
119;  Christ  will  come  again  120. 

Brown,  Victor  L.,  Second  counselor  in  Presiding  Bishopric   21,  22,  23 

Hope  for  the  sinner,  21;  Repentance  assures  salvation,  22;  Confes- 
sion purges,  22;  Bishop,  the  spiritual  counselor,  23. 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M  32,  33,  34,  35 

Fie  died  that  we  might  live,  32;  He  redeemed  all  men,  33;  The 
promise  beyond  the  grave,  33;  Assembling  Temple  ordinance  data, 
33;  Assignment  to  Priesthood  and  members,  35. 

Choir,  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  51,  55,  59,  63,  68,  111,  116,  120,  136, 

133,  145,  155 

Choruses, 

Brigham  Young  University  Combined  Choruses  28,  29,  39,  50 

Mormonaires  of  Boise   91,  92,  101,  110 

Ogden  L.D.S.  Institute  Chorale  69,  70,  91 

Primary  Children's  Chorus  5,  6,  18,  27,  28 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  35,  36,  37 

Christ's  earthly  reign,  35;  Signs  of  His  Coming,  36;  The  righteous 
shall  be  "caught  up,"  36;  Prepare  for  His  coming,  37;  "Come,  Let 
Us  Anew,"  37. 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J  43,  44,  45,  46 

Are  Mormons  Christians?,  43;  Characteristics  of  Christian  Creeds, 
43;  Characteristics  of  Latter-day  Saint  Faith,  43;  The  basic  testi- 
mony of  a  Latter-day  Saint,  46. 

Cullimore,  Elder  James  A  139,  140 

"He  that  doeth  the  works  of  righteousness,"  139. 


160  INDEX 

Dunn,  Elder  Paul  H.  121,  122,  123,  124 

Easter  is  coming,  121;  Hope  for  the  future,  122;  Authority,  122; 
Reason,  123;  Experience,  123;  "If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again," 
124. 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   124,  125,  126,  127 

Jesus  Christ,  subject  of  controversy,  124;  On  the  way  to  Emmaus, 
125;  He  is  Redeemer  of  mankind,  125;  His  disciples  honor  Him,  125; 
Others  criticize  Him,  126;  The  way  to  eternal  life,  126;  Revelation 
needed,  126;  The  Holy  Ghost,  127. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  88,  89,  90 

Love  is  expressed  by  action,  88;  Action  speaks  louder  than  words, 
88;  Love  and  truth,  88;  Love  does  not  injure,  89;  Love  is  a  positive 
force,  89;  Love  gives,  89;  Love  is  honest,  89;  Virtues  are  positive 
forces,  89;  Doers  of  the  word,  89;  The  best  evidence,  90;  Conviction 
expressed  by  conduct,  90. 

First  Day 

Morning  meeting    5 

Afternoon  meeting   28 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  presented  and  sustained  ....9,  10,  11,  12 

General  Priesthood  meeting,  Saturday  evening  91,  92,  93,  94,  95,  96, 

97,  98,  99,  100,  101,  102,  103,  104,  105,  106,  107,  108,  109,  110 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  .....148,  149,  150,  151,  152 

Great  worth  of  souls,  140;  Plan  for  exalting  man,  149;  Responsible 
for  Influence,  149;  Influence  of  teachers,  150;  Influence  on  lives 
of  others,  150;  Illustrations,  150. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  84,  85,  86,  87 

Battles  for  the  minds  of  men,  84;  Battles  for  the  faith  of  men,  85; 
"Do  you  actually  believe?,"  85;  Assassins  of  faith,  85;  Causes  of 
"famine  in  the  land,"  86;  Spiritual  plenty  in  the  modern  world, 
86;  Simple  ways  to  the  abundant  life,  86;  Search  the  scriptures — 
they  testify,  87;  Serve  the  Lord,  87;  Pray  .  .  .  "ask  and  it  shall  be 
given  you,"  87. 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W    46,  47,  48,  49,  50 

"A  little  lower  than  the  angels,  46;  Men  are  free  moral  agents,  46; 
A  blessing  and  a  curse,  46;  Without  compulsion,  47;  Offenses  against 
morality,  Sin  alienates  man  from  God,  Follow  the  course  of  right- 
eousness, 48;  Love  of  God  will  drive  out  fear,  48;  Love  of  God 
makes  obedience  easy  and  natural,  48;  Love  of  God  and  of  man, 
49;  The  way  to  peace  and  good-will  among  men,  49. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W  70,  71,  72,  73,  74,  75 

"Forgotten  wedges,"  70;  Jim  Died  Today,  71;  John's  Wedge,  71; 
Bottle  Wedge,  72;  Bill,  73;  Self-mastery,  73;  Wedges  of  conflict, 
73;  Power  to  remove  wedges,  74;  Procrastination  intrenches  the 
wedge,  75;  Wedges  of  flaws  and  sin,  75. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  64,  65,  66,  67,  68 

Sure  guides  to  truth,  64;  The  conflict  with  evil,  64;  Love  and 
obedience,  64;  Knowledge  of  God's  word,  65;  Faith  in  the  wisdom 
of  God,  65;  Harmony  evidence  of  oneness,  66;  Power  of  the  works 
of  God,  66;  Freedom  and  obedience,  67;  Man's  relationship  to 
Deity,  67;  Beware  false  leaders,  67;  Allegiance  to  God,  68. 

Longden,  Elder  John   37,  38,  39 

Dedication  of  the  Oldham  Chapel,  37;  Value  of  time,  38;  Time  well 


INDEX  161 

employed,  38;  "Remember  Now  thy  Creator,  in  the  days  of  thy 
youth,"  39. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.   78,  79,  80,  81 

Sixty  years  an  apostle,  78;  An  apostle  fifty-six  years,  79;  Testify,  79; 
Knowledge  saves,  79;  Scriptures  show  the  way,  80;  The  Lord's 
mortal  ministry,  80. 

McKay,  President  David  0  6,  55,  56,  57,  58,  59 

The  resurrection  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  56;  The  greatest  miracle, 
56;  Disciples  witnesses  of  resurrection,  56;  Sustained  by  Revela- 
tion, 57;  Resurrection  the  consummation  of  His  earthly  mission,  57; 
The  risen  Lord  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  58;  Other 
modern  witnesses,  58;  The  Testimony;  "That  He  Lives!"  58;  World 
need  today:  Unwavering  faith  in  Christ,  58;  Death  as  natural  as 
birth,  58;  The  Son  of  the  Living  God,  59;  The  immortality  of  man, 
59;  "Born  again,"  59;  He  is  the  first  step  to  everlasting  peace,  59; 
The  message  of  the  resurrection,  59. 

McKay,  President  David  O  ...105,  106,  107,  108 

Perilous  times,  106;  Cost  of  crime,  106;  Who  is  hurt?,  106;  Neglect 
of  families,  106;  Keep  homes  intact,  107;  Use  family  home  evening, 
107;  Unwavering  loyalty  to  God,  107;  Warning  against  evils,  107; 
One  standard  of  morality,  107;  Peace  in  righteous  living,  108; 
Marriage  is  of  divine  origin,  108;  Great  worth  of  souls,  108;  Un- 
wavering allegiance  to  God,  108;  Members  are  free,  109;  Church  is 
politically  neutral,  109;  Communism  greatest  threat  to  peace  and 
the  spread  of  God's  word  to  men,  109;  Citizens  should  educate 
themselves,  109;  Communism's  atheism  and  hate,  109;  Communism 
debases  and  destroys,  110. 

McKay,  President  David  0  153,  154,  155,  156,  157 

Response  to  calls  of  duty,  Peace  Corps,  153;  Calls  to  serve  the 
Church,  153;  Blessings  for  willingness  to  serve,  154. 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S  60,  61,  62,  63 

"God  so  loved  the  world,"  63. 
Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K  __  145,  146,  147,  148 

"The  cradle  of  liberty,"  145;  The  secret  of  our  success,  146. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  29,  30,  31,  32 

Christ  the  victor,  29;  "He  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life,"  29; 
Good  will  among  men,  30;  "Weightier  matters,"  31;  True  Christian- 
ity the  world's  real  need,  31. 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D  140,  141,  142 

World  needs  knowledge  that  God  lives,  140;  Gospel  principles 
eternal,  140;  Faith  the  principle  of  action,  141;  Faith,  the  cause; 
works,  the  effect  42. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand  Ill,  112,  113,  114,  115,  116 

Faithfulness  of  Latter-day  Saints,  111;  The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
112;  "Another  Comforter,"  112;  The  Spirit  of  Truth,  112;  Truth 
travels  long,  113;  The  spirit  of  Sacrifice,  113;  Missionary  service, 
114;  Tithing,  115;  What  sustains  colonizing,  115. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  95,  96,  97,  98 

Socialism  defined,  95;  Communism,  starting  point,  95;  German 
Socialism,  96;  Fabian  Society,  96;  Forms  and  policies  of  socialism, 
96;  The  United  Order,  96;  Consecration  and  stewardship,  96; 
Comparisons  and  contrasts;  Similarities,  96;  Differences,  97;  God- 
given  agency  preserved  in  United  Order,  97;  United  States  has 


162  INDEX 

adopted  much  socialism,  98;  Socialism  takes:  United  Order  gives, 
98;  What  can  we  do?,  98;  Constitution  God-inspired,  98;  Just  and 
holy  principles,  99;  Sustain  Constitutional  law,  99;  "When  the 
wicked  rule,  the  people  mourn,"  99;  What  to  do  about  United 
Order,  100;  a  prayer,  101. 

Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    156 

Second  Day 

Morning  meeting   51 

Afternoon  meeting   69 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G  40,  41 

"Endure  to  the  End,"  40;  A  thousand  years — one  day  to  the  Lord, 
41;  Promise  for  enduring,  41. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  ..12, 13,  14,  15,  28,  29,  32,  37,  40,  42 

His  coming  is  near,  12;  Prophecies  are  being  fulfilled,  13;  The  signs 
appear,  13;  And  are  not  seen,  14;  The  great  and  dreadful  day  is 
at  hand,  15;  Heed  the  divine  warning,  15. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  101,  102,  103 

Serve  others,  101;  Honor  the  Covenant  and  Promise,  102;  Honor 
duty  in  all  diligence,  102;  Blessings  are  abundant,  102. 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W  18,  19,  20,  21 

The  "Knowledge  Explosion,"  18;  Moses  foresaw  history,  19;  Second 
Coming  of  Christ  foreseen,  19;  Signs  of  His  coming,  20;  Gospel 
shall  be  preached  for  a  witness,  21. 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L.  51,  52,  53,  54,  55 

The  assurance  of  Easter,  51;  "Where  treasure  is  .  .  .  ,"  52;  The  law  of 
giving,  52;  Giving  opens  "the  windows  of  heaven,"  52;  Spiritual 
power  comes,  53;  Peace  of  mind,  53;  Integrity,  53;  Obedience  bom 
of  love,  54;  The  Lord's  tenth  blesses  people,  54;  "Lay  up  treasures" 
by  love  and  obedience,  54;  Break  the  chains  of  selfishness,  55; 
"Prove  me  now  .  .  .  ,"  55;  Control  of  "the  windows  of  heaven"  is  in 
your  hands,  55. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  76,  77,  78 

Thrift,  self-reliance,  work,  76;  Economist  testifies  of  value  of  right- 
eousness, 76;  "Serve  the  Cod  of  this  land,"  76;  Honor  sacred  cove- 
nants, 77,  Avoid  pitfalls  of  skepticism,  77;  He  will  never  forsake 
you,  77;  The  Mission  of  the  Church,  78;  The  power  of  faithfulness, 
78. 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L  23,  24,  25,  26,  27 

Lehi's  vision,  23;  The  vision  teaches:  24;  The  "Tree  of  Life,"  a 
recurring  symbol,  25;  "The  rod  of  iron,"  25;  Other  symbols,  25; 
Parable  of  the  Sower,  26;  "The  Power  of  God  unto  Salvation," 
26;  The  vision  of  Lehi  summarized,  27. 

Statistical  Report  1965  6,  7,  8 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon  69,  70,  75,  78,  81,  84,  87,  90, 

111,  116,  120,  121,  123,  127,  132 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon  

Word  of  Wisdom  blessing  and  promise,  103;  A  safeguard  against 
capture,  103;  "Tobacco  is  not  good  for  man,"  103;  Strong  drink  not 
good  for  man,  105;  Danger,  105. 


INDEX  163 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   133,  134,  135,  136,  137 

Scriptures  the  source  of  knowledge  of  Him,  134;  We  testify  that 
He  lives,  134;  "Seek  Him  and  find  Him,"  135;  The  church's  system 
of  education,  135;  "This  is  life  eternal.  .  .  ,"  135;  The  testimony  of 
the  Prophet,  135;  Acknowledge  God  and  return  to  Him,  136;  Wor- 
ship Him,  137;  Family  worship  in  the  home,  138;  Believe  all  who 
testify  of  Him,  138. 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D  82,  83,  84 

Prompt  and  willing  obedience,  82;  Example:  Adam,  82;  Nephi,  82; 
Abraham,  82;  "He  learned  obedience,"  83;  Programs  of  the  Church, 
83;  Blessings  for  the  faithful,  84. 

Third  Day   Ill,  133 

Morning  meeting  Ill 

Afternoon  meeting   133 

Tuttle,  Elder  A.  Theodore  143,  144,  145 

Testimony  and  witness,  143;  Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  143;  The 
Book  of  Mormon  Testimonies,  143;  Knowledge  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,  144;  "The  still  small  voice"  testifies,  144. 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H  92,  93,  94 

Commitment  to  high  goals,  92;  A  span  of  mortality,  92;  Future 
of  brightness,  92;  Choice  of  direction;  Solomon,  93;  A  friend, 
93;  Importance  of  setting  high  goals,  94. 


r 


BOOKS 


ARE  A  PART  OF 
SPIRITUAL  GROWTH 


WHO  AM  I? 


by  Alvin  R.  Dyer 


$5.95 


Questions  most  often  asked  by  individuals  are  "WHO 
AM  I?"...  "WHERE  DID  I  COME  FROM?"... 
"WHAT  IS  MY  DESTINY?"  This  volume  will  give 
answers  to  these  age-old  questions  that  have  perplexed 
men  since  the  beginning  of  time.  Authoritative  and 
well-documented,  it  explains  the  meaning  of  earth-life 
existence  from  the  concepts  revealed  from  God  in  this 
dispensation. 


.fSiJit 
ijtiiEITH 


PERSONAL  COMMUN- 
ICATIONS $2.50 

by  Neil  J.  Flinders 
In  a  world  that  needs  under- 
standing more  than  any  other 
quality,  this  book  will  explain 
and  help  you  develop  the  abil- 
ity to  communicate  more 
clearly  and  effectively  with 
others.  This  book  is  important 
to  your  personal  development. 


PLEASE  TELL  ME  $2.95 

by  Elizabeth  and 
J.  Stanley  Schoenfeld 

Written  by  a  stake  mission 
president  and  a  junior  Sunday 
School  coordinator,  PLEASE 
TELL  ME  contains  answers 
to  numerous  gospel  questions 
that  children  constantly  ask. 
Helpful  and  informative. 


THE  LITTLE 
THINGS 


$2.50 


by  Mirla  Greenwood  Thayne 

Here  is  a  book  written  from 
the  heart  of  a  Mormon  mother 
who  understands  the  joys  of 
little  things  .  .  .  flowers,  small 
children,  violin  music,  planting 
seeds,  Crawling  into  a  bed  with 
clean  sheets,  Heaven's  peace  in 
the  presence  of  death. . .  these 
and  many  other  things  of  the 
heart. 


MEET  THE 

MORMONS  $2.95 

by  Doyle  L.  Green  and 
Randall  L.  Green 

This  exciting  pictorial  intro- 
duction to  Mormonism  is  a  big 
%Wt\l"  volume  that  includes 
220  magnificent  illustrations. 
The  139  full  color  pictures  in- 
clude many  that  have  never 
been  seen  in  print!  This  is  a 
wonderful  book  for  the  mis- 
sionary, the  teacher,  the  in- 
vestigator, and  the  person 
seeking  to  know  more  about 
the  L.D.S.  Church. 


Deseret  Book  Company,  44  E.  So.  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Please  send  me  —  □  Who  Am  I?,  Q  Personal  Communi- 
cation, □  The  Little  Things,  □  Please  Tell  Me,  □  Meet 
the  Mormons. 

Utah  residents  ordering  from  Salt  Lake  store  add  3l/2% 
sales  tax.  Enclosed  is  a  check,  money  order  for 
Or,  charge  my  account  □  $    


State 


..Zip.. 


April  66  Conf.  Report 


Printed  by 


United  5'atei  of 


