Eighty -eighth  Semi-annual 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 
Hall,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  October 
5th,  6th  and  7th,  1917,  with  a  Full 
Report  of  the  Discourses 

25  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


NEW  BOOKS 

RECENTLY  PUBLISHED 


WHITNEY'S  POPULAR  HISTORY  OF  UTAH 
A  complete  and  up-to-date  History  of  the  State  in 
one  handsome  volume. 

Over  600  pages,  250  views  and  portraits  of  the 
Founders  and  Builders  of  the  State. 

Large  Octavo  Vol.— Cloth  Embossed   $2.00 

Large  Octavo  Vol. — Half  Morocco   2.50 

Postpaid  to  any  address. 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST— By  Elder  James  E.  Talmage 
A  study  of  the  Messiah  and  His  Mission  according 
to  Holy  Scriptures  both  Ancient  and  Modern, 

Regular  Edition,  three-quarters  leather  $1.50 

NEW  INDIA  PAPER  EDITION 

FRENCH  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red 
under  gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  cloth 
lined   $2.50 

FRENCH  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red 
under  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge   .   3.00 

TURKEY  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  un- 
der gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge   3.50 

WILD  ROSES— Prof.  Howard  R.  Driggs 

A  thrilling  story  of  the  West.    Postpaid,  $1.35. 

lllHIIUIIIIMllllllllllllll[lllllllllllll[ll|[llltllUllllltlllllllllllllllllMIIIIIH[lllllllllllMIIIIIII|]tlllllllllllllllllllllll[IUIIltl]IIIIUIIIIIIIII[llilllllllllllll 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


EIGHTY-EIGHTH 
SEMI-ANNUAL  CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


FIRST  DAY 


The  Eighty-eighth  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday, 
October  5,  1917,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose ;  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,  *,  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  George  Albert  Smith,  *, 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  James  E.  Talmage,  and 
Stephen  L.  Richards;  Presiding 
Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  Seymour 
B.  Young,  **,  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin,  and  Charles  H.  Hart,  ** ;  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  Charles  W. 
Nibley,  Orrin  P.  Miller,  and  David 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washing- 
ton; and  George  F.  Richards,  presiding 
over  the  European  Mission. 

**Brigham  H.  Roberts  was  present 
on  Sunday,  but  not  on  Friday  and  Sat- 
urday, being  on  duty  with  the  Nation- 
al Guard  of  Utah.  Levi  Edgar  Young, 
detained  by  his  duties  in  the  University 
of  Utah,  was  present  at  subsequent  meet- 
ings. 


A.  Smith ;  Assistant  Historians, 
Andrew  Jenson,  and  A.  William 
Lund.  There  were  also  a  large 
number  of  Presidents  of  .stakes  with 
their  counselors,  Patriarchs,  Bish- 
ops of  Wards,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  men  and  women  repre- 
senting various  quorums  and  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church. 

The  following  Presidents  of 
Missions  were  in  attendance:  Wal- 
ter P.  Monson,  Eastern  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ; 
German  E.  Ellsworth,  Northern 
States;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern 
States ;  John  L.  Herrick,  Western 
States ;  Joseph  E.  Robinson,  Cali- 
fornia ;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau 
of  Information,  Temple  Block. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  congregation  to  order.  The  as- 
sembly filled  the  Great  Tabernacle 
in  every  part,  including  the  galleries 
and  the  choir  stand. 

The  choir  and  congregat'on  sang : 
"O  say  what  is  truth."  The  choir 
was  composed  of  representatives 
from  choirs  in  different  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Prayer  by  President  Mark  Aus- 
tin of  the  Fremont  stake  of  Zion. 

A  duet :  "Hail  to  the  brightness 
of  Zion's  glad  morning,"  was  sung 
bv  Marie  Hedquist  and  Prof.  Bo- 
shard,  of  Provo. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

GREETING 

I  feel  extremely  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  once  more  standing 
before  such  an  audience  as  this  assembled  here  at  the  opening  session  of 
our  eighty-eighth  semi-annual  conference  of  the  Church.  I  hope  that  I 
may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  assist  me  for  a  few  moments  to  express 
my  feelings  and  hopes,  and  my  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  the  inestimable 
privileges  that  we  enjoy  today.  It  is  almost  marvelous  to  me  to  look 
upon  the  vast  sea  of  intelligent  faces,  beaming  with  joy  and  happiness, 
and  with  the  consciousness  of  right,  as  I  have  the  privilege  of  doing  this 
morning  in  looking  upon  this  vast  congregation.  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord 
is  well  pleased  with  your  presence  here  in  honor  of  this  semi-annual 
meeting  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  certainly 
feel  very  grateful  for  your  presence,  for  it  is  an  indication  of  the  union 
of  feeling  and  of  heart  pervading  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  honor 
in  which  you  hold  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  It  is  an  evidence 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  with  you,  that  the  love  of  truth  is  in  your 
hearts,  that  your  faith  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  abated,  and 
that  you  are  here  to  honor  your  membership  in  the  Church,  and  the  posi- 
tions which  many  of  you  hold  as  presiding  officers  over  the  various 'or- 
ganizations of  the  Church.  In  this  vast  attendance  at  the  opening  session 
of  this  conference  you  have  indicated  your  loyalty  to  the  cause  of  Zion 
and  your  love  for  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  your  confidence  in  your 
brethren  whom  you  have  sustained,  from  time  to  time,  as  presiding  offi- 
cers in  the  Church,  and  I  welcome  you,  one  and  all,  in  your  presence  here 
this  morning,  and  I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  descend 
upon  us  during  this  session,  and  throughout  the  succeeding  sessions  of  the 
conference,  until  we  shall  finish  the  work  we  have  in  hand  to  do. 

OUR  HOPE  OF  SALVATION  FOUNDED  ON  THE  TRUTH 

I  desire  to  say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  what  I  have  often  said, 
and  which  is  still  true,  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing  on  the 
earth,  and  there  is  no  power  beneath  the  Celestial  kingdom  that  can  pre- 
vent its  progress ;  for  so  the  Almighty  has  decreed.  I  bear  this  testimony 
to  you.  I  feel  in  every  fiber  of  my  soul  that  it  is  true;  and,  indeed,  if  it 
were  not  true — notwithstanding  the  hopes  we  have,  notwithstanding  the 
faith  with  which  the  Lord  has  blessed  us,  notwithstanding  the 
prosperity  that  has  attended  us  here  in  our  labors  in  the  valleys  of  these 
mountains,  in  harmony  with  the  purposes  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints — if  it  were  not  true  that  the  Almighty  is  at  the  helm, 
and  has  been  at  the  helm  from  the  beginning,  and  will  continue  to  the 
end,  our  hopes  and  our  anticipations  for  present  and  for  future  life  would 
be  in  vain.  This  work  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  nothing 
else  will  do,  nothing  else  can  compare  with  it.  Even  error,  as  it  has  been 
said  by  one,  may  become  venerable  with  age,  and  may  become  popular  by 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


the  number  of  its  votaries ;  but  neither  error  nor  the  popularity  of  num- 
bers will  avail  for  the  salvation  and  redemption  and  exaltation  of  the 
children  of  Almighty  God. 

Our  hope  of  salvation  must  be  founded  upon  the  truth,  the  whole  , 
truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  for  we  cannot  build  upon  error  and 
ascend  into  the  courts  of  eternal  truth  and  enjoy  the  glory  and  exaltation 
of  the  kingdom  of  our  God.   That  cannot  be  done. 

Then  I  bear  testimony  again  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
foundation  of  the  cause  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  gospel  truth,  and 
it  is  a  glorious  thing  to  know  that  so  many — and  yet  so  few  in  comparison 
to  the  vast  aggregation  of  humanity — have  learned  the  truth,  learned  the 
fact  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
and  that  it  must  of  necessity  be  the  truth,  for  God  has  never  devised  error 
for  the  redemption  of  his  children,  nor  for  their  blessing  and  exaltation. 
He  has  never  given  to  the  children  of  men  falsehood  and  error  to  lead 
them  back  into  his  presence.  The  Almighty,  in  the  beginning,  never  de- 
vised a  plan  for  the  redemption  of  his  childern  that  was  not  true,  that 
was  not  efficacious,  that  would  not  be  effectual  in  the  accomplishment  of 
his  purpose  to  bring  to  pass  the  final  exaltation  into  the  kingdom  and 
the  enjoyment  of  his  presence,  of  all  his  children  who  would  obey  his 
laws  and  keep  his  commandments. 

THE  INTEGRITY  OF  THE  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  testify  to  you,  as  I  know  and  feel  that  I  live  and  move  and  have 
my  being,  that  the  Lord  raised  up  the  boy  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  and 
endowed  him  with  divine  authority,  and  taught  him  those  things  which 
were  necessary  for  him  to  know  that  he  might  have  power  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  God's  Church  and  kingdom  in  the  earth.  Joseph  Smith 
was  true  to  the  covenants  that  he  made  with  the  Lord,  true  to  his  mis- 
sion, and  the  Lord  enabled  him  to  accomplish  his  work,  even  to  the  seal- 
ing of  his  testimony  with  his  shed  blood.  His  testimony  is  now,  and  has 
been,  in  force  among  the  children  of  men  as  verily  as  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  force  and  a  binding  testimony  upon  all  the  world,  and  it  has 
been  from  the  day  it  was  shed  until  now,  and  will  continue  until  the  wind- 
ing up  scene. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  divinity 
of  the  mission  and  work  that  was  accomplished  by  President  Brigham 
Young  and  his  associates  in  fleeing  from  the  wrath  that  threatened  in 
Illinois  and  Missouri  and  other  places,  into  these  peaceful  vales,  which 
was  done  by  the  will  of  heaven  and  by  the  guiding  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  President  Young  and  the  pioneers  were  enabled  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion of  a  commonwealth,  the  equal  of  which  is  scarcely  to  be  found  within 
the  borders  of  our  glorious  land,  and  it  was  done,  not  by  the  wisdom  of 
Brother  Brigham,  nor  of  Brother  Heber  C.  Kimball,  nor  of  any  of  their 
associates,  grand  men  as  they  were,  true  servants  of  the  living  God  as  they 
were,  faithful  and  true  to  their  callings,  grand  as  was  their  integrity  to 
the  cause  of  Zion — but  back  of  them,  behind  them,  above  them  and  below, 
and  all  around  them,  was  the  power  of  God,  leading  and  directing  them, 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  thus  consummating  his  purposes  through  their  instrumentality.  We 
give  the  honor  to  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  we  also  honor  and  bless  the 
names  of  those  great  and  good  men  whom  the  Lord  chose  to  accomplish 
his  purpose,  and  through  whom  he  did  accomplish  his  purpose  without 
failure. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  integrity  of  John  Taylor  as  one  of  the 
purest  men  I  ever  knew  in  my  life,  a  man  clean  from  head  to  foot,  clean 
in  body  and  clean  in  spirit,  free  from  every  vulgar  thing,  so  common 
among  the  children  of  men.  I  know  whereof  I  speak,  for  I  was  with 
him  day  and  night,  month  after  month,  and  year  after  year,  and  I  bear 
my  testimony  of  his  integrity.  He  was  a  martyr  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  He  suffered  more  than  death  with  Joseph  and  Hyrum,  and  the 
Lord  preserved  him  and  honored  him  by  calling  him  to  take  charge  of 
his  work  for  a  season  in  the  earth,  thus  exalting  him  to  that  most  glorious 
and  most  responsible  position  that  any  man  could  be  called  to  occupy  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  faithfulness  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  a  man 
in  whom  there  was  no  guile,  a  man  honest  to  the  core,  a  man  susceptible 
to  the  impressions  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  a  man  guided  by  inspiration 
in  the  performance  of  his  duty,  far  more  than  by  any  gift  of  wisdom  or 
of  judgment  that  he  himself  possessed. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  work  that  was  accomplished  by  President 
Lorenzo  Snow,  although  it  was  brief,  yet  some  of  the  things  which  were 
left  for  him  to  do  were  absolutely  necessary  in  order  to  relieve  his  suc- 
cessor and  others  that  may  arise  in  time  to  come,  from  mistakes  and 
errors  that  had  crept  in  before. 

As  to  the  present  administration  of  the  gospel  and  of  the  work  of 
the  Lord  I  have  nothing  to  say.  Let  the  work  speak  for  itself,  let  the 
people  and  the  voice  of  the  people  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  say  what  is  being  done  by  the  Lord,  let  it  not  be  said  by  me, 
nor  by  my  counselors  and  my  associates.  The  Lord  forbid  that  I  should 
ever  imagine  for  one  moment  that  we  are  of  any  great  importance  in 
this  great  work  of  the  Lord.  Others  may  be  raised  up,  and  the  Lord 
can  shape  their  minds,  he  can  qualify  them  and  can  humble  them,  if  need 
be,  to  fit  them  for  the  duties  and  responsibilities  that  may  be  required  at 
their  hands.  I  believe  that  Zion  is  prospering,  and  that  so  far  as  our  spir- 
itual life,  our  spiritual  growth,  and  our  faith  are  concerned,  as  well  as  our 
temporal  condition,  we  are  prosperous,  a^id  all  is  well  in  Zion  today. 

BENEFITS  OF  VISITS  BY  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

We  made  a  short  visit  not  long  ago  to  some  of  our  southern  settle- 
ments. It  is  something  that  we  should  do  oftener.  I  am  conscious  of  it 
now,  more  so  than  I  have  been  in  times  past.  I  am  satisfied  that  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  should  visit  the  people.  It  is  not  enough  that 
the  teachers  in  the  wards  should  visit  the  Saints,  and  the  stranger 
within  our  gates,  and  understake  the  work,  or  at  least  carry  on  the  work 
of  teaching  the  people  the  way  of  righteousness  and  of  truth,  and  union, 
and  love.   That  is  not  sufficient.   It  is  not  sufficient  that  the  bishops  should 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


5 


visit  the  people  of  their  wards  and  keep  in  touch  with  them  and  be- 
come acquainted  with  the  people,  and  let  the  people  know  who  is  the  father 
of  the  ward, — this  is  not  enough.  It  is  not  quite  sufficient  that  the  presi- 
dencies of  the  stakes  of  Zion  should  visit  the  people,  and  should  under- 
stand the  necessities  of  those  who  dwell  in  their  stakes,  and  be  known 
of  them.  For  it  is  also  necessary  that  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  the  Patriarchs,  the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  in  fact  all  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
should  visit  as  far  as  possible,  and  see  the  people,  and  be  seen  of  them. 
We  want  to  keep  in  touch  with  and  know  one  another.  So  far  as  I  feel 
at  present,  I  know  of  nothing  that  I  would  not  like  you  to  know  con- 
cerning me.  I  want  you  to  know  what  I  am,  what  I  am  like,  whether  I 
am  a  man  or  not,  whether  I  am  trying  to  magnify  my  calling  or  not.  I 
want  you  to  look  at  me  and  know  something  of  what  I  am  doing;  I 
want  you  to  know  me  and  I  would  like  to  know  you.  And  so  I  can  speak 
for  my  brethren.  We  have  nothing  that  is  not  in  common  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  We  know  nothing,  and  we  will  preach  nothing  to  the 
people  except  that  which  the  Lord  God  has  revealed,  and  we  advise  and 
counsel  those  who  are  in  authority,  and  whose  duty  and  business  it  is  to 
teach  and  preach  the  principles  of  the  gospel  to  the  world  and  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  confine  their  teachings  and  their  instructions  to  the 
word  of  God  that  has  been  revealed.  There  is  a  great  deal  that  has  been 
revealed  that  has  not  yet  been  lived  up  to,  I  assure  you.  There  is  a  great 
deal  yet  remaining  to  be  learned.  There  is  a  great  deal  that  is  yet  to  be 
taught  in  the  spirit  of  instruction,  and  there  is  a  great  deal  that  has  been 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  associates  that  the  people 
have  not  yet  received  in  their  hearts,  and  have  not  yet  become  converted 
to  as  they  should.  When  we  obey  and  are  capable  of  observing  the 
precepts  of  the  gospel  and  the  laws  of  God  and  the  requirements  of 
heaven,  which  have  already  been  revealed,  we  will  be  far  better  off  and 
nearer  the  goal  of  perfection  in  wisdom,  knowledge  and  power  than  we 
are  today.  When  that  time  comes,  then  there  are  other  things  still 
greater  yet  to  be  revealed  to  the  people  of  God.  Until  we  do  our  duty, 
however,  in  that  which  we  have  received,  until  we  are  faithful  over  the 
things  that  are  now  committed  into  our  hands,  until  we  will  live  our  re- 
ligion as  we  have  it  now.  as  the  Lord  has  given  it  to  us,  to  add  command- 
ments, to  add  light  and  intelligence  to  us  over  that  which  we  have  already 
received,  which  we  have  not  yet  fully  obeyed,  would  be  to  add  condem- 
nation upon  our  heads.  It  is  enough  for  us  to  live  in  the  light  of  present 
inspiration  and  present  revelation  and  for  each  individual  member  of  the 
Church  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  labor  in  the  Church 
as  the  Spirit  may  give  him  and  her  guidance  in  the  performance  of  duty. 
Every  soul  of  us  is  entitled  to  inspiration  from  God,  to  know  what  is  our 
duty,  and  how  we  are  to  do  it.  We  have  not  learned  it  yet,  not  all  of  us, 
but  we  are  in  a  fair  way  to  learn.  The  Lord  is  still  patient :  he  is  long- 
suffering ;  he  is  full  of  love  and  graciousness  towards  all,  and  we  are 
doing  a  little  better  all  the  time.  I  believe  we  are  a  little  more  faithful 
in  the  performance  of  our  duties  than  we  have  been  in  the  past;  yet 
there  is  great  room  for  improvement. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


IMPORTANT  COMMANDMENTS  TO  BE  KEPT 

One  of  the  important  commandments  of  God  is  to  honor  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy.  Many  of  our  people  neglect  that  commandment; 
they  don't  do  it,  and  many  of  us  permit  our  children  to  go  loose  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  instead  of  curtailing,  teaching,  and  curbing  them  within  the 
boundary  of  the  gospel  requirements.  The  law  of  God  is  that  we  shall 
love  one  another.  If  we  could  learn  to  do  that,  then  amen  to  bishops' 
trials  and  bishops'  courts,  or,  to  the  necessity  of  them.  If  we  only  loved 
one  another  so  that  we  would  do  good  to  others  as  we  would  have  them 
do  unto  us,  there  would  be  no  bickering,  contention,  quarreling,  strife,  bit- 
terness, or  evil  in  the  hearts  of  neighbor  against  neighbor,  and  all  would 
be  peace  and  happiness.  If  we  loved  God  with  all  our  hearts  more  than 
we  love  the  world,  our  houses,  our  lands,  our  flocks,  our  herds,  and  our 
gold  in  the  banks,  I  say,  if  we  loved  God  with  all  our  hearts  and  minds 
and  strength,  there  would  be  no  necessity  for  prisons,  no  necessity  for 
courts  of  justice  in  the  land.  There  would  be  no  necessity  for  the  occu- 
pation of  lawyers  and  pettifoggers  to  dispute  and  contend  over  differences 
and  disagreements  among  the  people.  All  these  things  would  be  as  things 
of  the  past,  relegated  to  uselessness.  Men  would  then  know  the  truth, 
they  would  love  it  and  would  walk  in  its  light  which  shines  from  the  pres- 
ence of  the  glorious  Father,  because  then  we  would  show  that  we  love 
him  and  are  willing  to  keep  his  commandments.  W e  have  much  to  learn, 
too,  in  relation  to  these  things. 

SIMPLE  BUT  VITAL  TEACHINGS  TO  BE  OBSERVED 

The  Lord  has  given  us  a  little  simple  word,  so  simple  that  the  weak- 
est of  all  that  are  or  could  be  called  Saints,  should  be  able  to  observe  and 
obey  it,  and  yet  some  of  the  very  strongest  of  us  do  not  do  it,  but  neglect 
to  keep  it.  We  have  much  to  learn  yet,  in  that  simple  little  Word  of 
Wisdom  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  his  Saints  for  their  health,  vitality 
and  strength,  but  not  all  of  us  observe  it. 

The  Lord  has  given  to  us  the  law  of  tithing,  by  which  we  are  to 
furnish,  by  our  tithes  and  our'  offerings,  the  revenue  necessary  to  carry 
the  gospel  to  the  world,  to  gather  the  Saints,  and  to  gather  the  elders 
after  their  missions  are  completed,  from  their  mission  field,  and  build 
temples  and  conduct  the  work  that  is  necessary  to  be  performed  in  the  tem- 
ples for  the  living  and  for  the  dead.  Not  all  of  us  observe  that  law. 
and  yet.  I  am  happy  to  say  to  you,  that  this  year  shows  a  very  material 
increase  in  the  fidelity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  observance  of  that 
law.  Our  tithes  this  year  so  far  have  been  better  than  at  any  other  time 
previously.  That  is  a  good  indication,  and  yet  it  may  be  improved  very 
materially. 

A  YOUNG  MAN  IN  AN  OLD  BODY 


Now,  there  are  many  other  things,  but  I  cannot  tell  them  all  to  you. 
I  begin  to  feel  that  T  am  geetins:  to  be  an  old  man,  or  rather  a  young  man 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


7 


in  an  old  body.  I  think  I  am  just  about  as  young  as  I  ever  was  in  my 
life  in  spirit.  I  love  the  truth  today  more  than  I  ever  did  before  in  the 
world.  I  believe  in  it  more  firmly  now  than  I  ever  did  before,  because 
T  see  it  more  clearly,  I  understand  it  better  from  day  to  day  by  the  prompt- 
ings and  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  is  vouchsafed  to  me ; 
but  my  body  gets  tired,  and  I  want  to  tell  you,  sometimes  my  poor  old 
heart  quivers  considerably. 

I  feel  admonished  now  to  bless  you,  and  I  bless  you  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

SOME  HISTORICAL  ITEMS 

I  have  just  a  few  little  items  that  I  would  like  to  announce : 
Since  our  last  conference,  the  Tintic  stake  of  Zion  has  been  organ- 
ized, being  a  part  taken  from  the  Nebo  stake,  with  E.  Frank  Birch,  pres- 
ident. 

The  following  wards  have  been  organized,  an  indication  of  what  I 
have  said  to  you  that  Zion  is  growing,  increasing,  progressing: 


Wards  Stakes 

Davisville   Idaho 

West  Warren  branch. North  Weber 

Hunt    St.  Johns 

Lovell  West   Big  Horn 

Logan  Ninth   Cache 

Logan  Tenth   Cache 

Aberdeen  branch  Blackfoot 

Gooding  branch   Boise 

Vernon   St.  Johns 


Wards  Stakes 

Owendale  branch  Shelley 

Hazelton  branch   Boise 

Acequia  .  .  Boise 

Beaver  branch   Bingham 

Springfield  branch  Blackfoot 

Upalco    Duchesne 

\rcadia    Duchesne 

Jordan   Salt  Lake 


The  following  bishops  have  passed  away : 

John  I.  Gledhill,  Vermillion  ward,  Sevier  stake;  Benjamin  Argyle, 
Spanish  Fork,  Second  ward,  Nebo  stake ;  John  Stevenson,  Diamondville 
ward,  Woodruff  stake ;  Robert  Heber  Beesley,  Sunset  ward,  North  Davis 
stake ;  Franklin  L.  Gunnell,  Wellsville  ward,  Hyrum  stake. 

The  following  brethren  laboring  in  the  mission  field  have  passed 
away : 

Elder  Peter  Okelberry  of  Hazel,  Idaho,  died  in  the  California  mission, 
at  Santa  Anna,  on  May  22,  1917,  of  hemorrhage  of  the  brain ;  Elder 
Enoch  Coleman  Hunsaker,  of  Honeyville,  Box  Elder  county,  Utah,  died 
September  27,  in  the  Eastern  States  mission. 

There  are  now  existing  797  wards  of  the  Church  and  38  independent 
branches,  74  stakes  and  21  missions. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  PENNY  FUND 

In  addition  to  these  little  items,  I  desire  to  mention  the  fact  that 
some  little  time  ago  a  number  of  the  sisters  of  the  General  Relief  Society 
Board  inaugurated  the  idea  of  asking  for  a  penny  subscription  per  week 


s 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


or  per  month,  as  the  case  might  be — I  don't  know  exactly,  but  I  think 
it  was  a  penny  a  week — from  the  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society  throughout 
the  Church,  a  contribution  to  be  used  to  assist  in  the  erection  of  the  two 
temples  now  under  construction,  one  in  Canada  and  one  in  the  islands  of 
the  Pacific  Ocean.  In  an  almost  incredibly  short  time  this  penny  fund 
has  accumulated  a  sum  equal  to  twelve  thousand  seventy-four  dollars 
and  some  cents.  It  has  not  been  missed  by  any  of  the  sisters,  and  it  will 
just  add  about  a  little  over  $6,000  apiece  to  the  two  temples,  to  help  pay 
for  the  workmen.  This  principle  of  the  penny  fund  was  inaugurated  first 
in  the  City  of  Nauvoo,  at  the  time  the  temple  at  Nauvoo  was  under  con- 
struction. The  suggestion  came  from  Mary  Smith,  the  wife  of  Hyrum 
Smith,  and  was  seconded  by  her  sister,  Mercy  Rachel  Thompson. 
Through  the  sanction  and  permission  of  Hyrum  Smith  and  the  Prophet 
and  others,  they  inaugurated  this  penny  fund.  The  invitation  to  con- 
tribute was  extended  to  all  the  branches  of  the  Church  then  known  in  the 
United  States  and  in  Great  Britain,  and  I  only  need  to  add  that  all  the 
cash  that  was  ecessary  to  pay  for  all  the  nails  and  the  glass  used  in  the 
temple  at  Nauvoo  was  furnished  by  this  penny  fund. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  THE  GREAT  LATTER-DAY  WORK 

Now,  the  Lord  bless  you,  and  may  the  work  of  the  Lord  continue 
to  grow  in  your  hearts  and  in  your  love.  There  is  not  anything  in  the 
world,  nor  beneath  the  Celestial  kingdom  of  God  today  that  is  of  equal 
importance  to  this  latter-day  work  that  you  are  engaged  in.  Receive 
that  from  me  as  my  testimony.  It  is  not  mine  only;  it  is  the  testimony 
of  the  Lord,  and  his  word  that  cannot  and  must  not  be  broken,  and  will 
not  fail,  and,  therefore,  I  repeat  it  unto  you  and  admonish  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  keep  the  commandments 
and  observe  the  laws  of  God, '  for  they  are  the  greatest  things  on  earth 
to  us.  Amen. 

A  solo,  entitled,  "Storm  and  Calm,"  was  sung  by  Edna  Godfrey. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

I  am  sure  the  testimony  borne  by  our  President  this  morning  has 
touched  every  heart  present,  and  he  has  given  us  the  key-word  for  our 
acts  and  conduct  of  life,  namely,  to  love  God  and  one  another,  and  show 
it  by  keeping  the  Lord's  commandments,  not  neglecting  those  things 
that  have  been  required  of  us.  By  following  these  instructions  he  said 
we  will  be  blessed,  and  I  bear  test'mony  to  this. 

PROGRESS  OF  THE  CHURCH,  SPIRITUALLY  AND  TEMPORALLY 

The  Church,  since  last  we  met,  has  made  much  progress.  The  peo- 
ple in  Zion  have  been  blessed  this  year  with  bounteous  harvests.  The 
Lord  has  promised  that  he  will  remember  those  who  pay  their  tithes 


PRESIDENT  ANT  HON  H.LUND. 


9 


and  offerings,  and  the  President  has  testified  to  this  being  fulfilled  in 
temporal  blessings  that  the  Saints  have  received,  and  still  more  in  the 
spiritual  blessings  bestowed  upon  them. 

On  our  trip  south  we  enjoyed  meeting  the  Saints  and  witnessing 
the  spirit  that  they  possessed  and  we  were  much  gratified  by  seeing  the 
love  which  they  exhibited  towards  the  President  of  the  Church  and  h:s 
party.  I  believe  also,  as  he  said,  that  it  would  be  good  to  do  more  of 
this  visiting. 

TEMPLES  AND  TEMPLE  WORK 

I  would  like  to  talk  a  little  on  the  activities  of  the  Church.  You 
know  the  Presidency  have  the  directing  affairs  as  far  as  the  Church  in 
general  is  concerned.  Temple  building  is  going  on.  Our  two  temples, 
in  Hawaii  and  Canada,  are  progressing  towards  completion.  It  will  take 
some  time  yet  before  the  Canada  temple  will  be  finished,  but  the  Hawaiian 
temple  is  approaching  its  dedication  very  fast.  Temple  building  is  a  char- 
acteristic of  this  .dispensation,  and  this  will  not  be  at  an  end  by  building 
these  two  additional  temples.  We  look  forward  to  the  time  when  the  land 
of  Zion  will  be  covered  with  temples,  so  that  the  great  work  may  go  on, 
both  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead.  I  am  pleased  to  state  to  this  congre- 
gation that  the  Saints  are  alive  in  this  work.  Our  temple  here  in  Salt 
Lake  City  is  filled  almost  to  overflowing.  They  are  doing  a  splendid 
work  in  Logan,  and  in  the  other  temples,  showing  that  the  people  of 
God  are  anxious  to  go  to  the  temples  to  receive  their  blessings.  We 
want  to  encourage  them  in  this  work.  We  know  the  faith-promoting 
influence  it  has  upon  the  living  when  they  are  performing  this  un- 
*  selfish  labor,  coming,  at  great  expense  to  many,  to  the  temple  to  do 
work  for  their  forefathers,  and  hence  we  commend  their  efforts  in  this 
matter.  It  :s  not  that  they  expect  any  reward  here,  but  their  hearts  are 
turned  to  their  fathers,  and  they  feel  repaid  for  all  that  they  are  doing 
in  coming  to  the  temple,  by  getting  spiritually  refreshed,  and  their 
testimony  strengthened. 

BUILDING    MEETING    HOUSES   AND    ATTENDING  MEETINGS 

We  are  also  continuing  the  work  of  building  meeting  houses.  When 
the  Lord  has  blessed  the  Saints  with  means,  they  ought  to  show,  their 
gratitude  in  performing  the  different  duties  required  of  them,  and 
one  of  these  is  to  build  houses  of  worship  to  God,  so  that  both  old  and 
young  can  go  there  and  receive  instructions  and  blessings,  both  by  hearing 
those  who  speak  and  by  renewing  their  covenants  in  partaking  of  the 
sacrament. 

The  President  enjoined  upon  us  to  remember  the  Sabbath  Day. 
We  should  all  feel  that  it  is  our  duty  to  attend  meetings  in  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  to  go  there  and  listen  to  what  is  said,  and  with  the  rest 
enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  show  this  example  to  our  children  also, 
that  they  may  look  upon  the  Sabbath  as  a  holy  day  that  should  be  spent 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  visiting   the  house  of  the  Lord  and  in  meditation  on  the  things  that 
pertain  to  godliness. 

The  Trustee-in-Trust  has  spent  great  sums  of  money  to  help  our 
brethren  to  build  meeting  houses  in  different  parts  of  Zion,  also  in  the 
missions.  He  feels  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  doing  this,  and  we 
are  pleased  that  the  Saints  are  responding  so  heartily  in  the  matter  of 
building  good  houses  of  worship. 

THE  CHURCH   HISTORIAN'S  OFFICE  AND  RECORD  KEEPING 

I  am  thankful  that  we  have  our  new  office  quarters  completed,  and 
we  would  like  you  to  come  and  see  them.  I  am  especially  glad  that 
we  have  had  the  Historian's  office  moved  into  a  fire-proof  building  from 
the  place  where  it  has  been  so  many  years.  I  have  often  been  anxious 
about  the  precious  documents,  letters  and  books  that  we  have  in  the 
Historian's  office.  If  we  should  have  been  unfortunate  enough  to  have 
had  a  fire  and  to  lose  them  we  could  never  have  restored  the  loss,  and 
I  am  therefore  happy  now  that  we  have  these  splendid  collections  of 
historical  matters  pertaining  to  the  Church  placed  in  a  safe  building. 
We  would  like  you  to  visit  that  department  also. 

You  may  not  know  what  we  are  doing  in  the  Historian's  office,  and 
yet  a  great  work  has  been  performed  there.  Record-keeping  was  rec- 
ommended by  the  Lord  from  the  very  beginning.  On  the  6th  .day  of 
April,  1830.  a  revelation  was  given  in  which  the  Lord  commanded -that 
a  record  should  be  kept.  We  know  the  importance  of  records.  When 
Lehi  and  his  family  left  Jerusalem  and  through  the  commandment 
of  the  Lord  were  going  to  a  strange  country,  he  understood  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  how  necessary  it  was  to  have  with  him  the  rec-  • 
ords  of  the  laws  and  prophecies  then  extant,  or  at  least  a  copy  of  them, 
and  Nephi  and  his  brethren  were  sent  back  to  Jerusalem  to  obtain  them. 
They  found  that  Laban  who  had  these  records  in  his  possession  was  not 
willing  to  give  them  up.  They  offered  to  give  him  great  wealth  which 
they  had  left  in  Jerusalem  if  he  would  g've  them  the  records  that  he 
possessed.  Laban  thirsted  after  their  wealth,  but  was  not  willing  to  give 
them  the  records.  Nephi  at  length  obtained  them  and  brought  them  back 
into  the  wilderness  to  Lehi,  who  was  very  much  pleased.'  He  knew 
that  if  they  had  not  the  records  of  the  Lord's  hand-dealings  in  the  past 
it  would  be  much  harder  for  his  descendants  to  continue  in  the  fa:th 
and  to  retain  the  knowledge  of  God  and  what  he  desired  his  children 
to  do.  Because  of  the  loss  of  the  records  afterwards,  we  find  that  the 
people  dwindled  in  darkness,  ignorance  and  unbelief.  Now  the  object 
of  keeping  records  is  that  the  people  may  know  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord  and  what  he  has  done  in  former  ages  and  in  this  age  as 
well. 

THE    CHURCH  HISTORIANS 

Oliver  Cowdery  was  the  first  h'storian  of  the  Church.  Afterwards 
the  Lord,  in  revelation,  appointed  John  Whitmer  as  the  historian.  John 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


11 


Whitmer  was  one  of  the  eight  witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He 
was  very  zealous  in  helping  the  prophet.  In  the  later  days  of  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Book  of  Mormon  he  acted  as  scribe,  and  afterwards  he 
helped  the  prophet  in  preparing  the  revelations  to  be  printed,  and  he 
went  to  Missouri  for  that  purpose.  He  felt  how  important  the  work 
was  that  the  Lord  had  commenced,  and  if  he  had  only  kept  that  spirit 
with  him  he  would  not  have  met  the  fate  he  did,  that  of  being  excom- 
municated from  the  Church.  But  love  of  worldly  th:ngs  took  posses- 
sion of  him  and  he  left  the  Church.  But  I  want  to  say  this  to  his  credit, 
that  though  he  left  the  Church  and  was  angry  at  the  brethren,  yet 
he  never  denied  the  testimony  which  he  subscribed  to  when  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  printed.  Once  when  he  was  in  company  with  a  lot 
of  Missourians,  enemies  of  the  Church,  they  brought  up  the  question 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  boldly  .declared  that  he  knew  the  contents 
of  that  book  to  be  true,  for  he  had  seen  the  plates  from  wh:ch  it  was 
translated.  And  shortly  before  his  death  he  testified  to  John  C.  Whit- 
mer, a  nephew  of  his,  that  he  knew  the  book  to  be  true.  Still  he  died 
outside  of  the  Church,  but  what  he  had  seen  he  could  not  deny,  and  the 
fear  of  men  did  not  cause  him  to  waver  in  his  testimony.  And  we  can 
say  the  same  of  all  the  witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Several 
of  them  were  not  faithful  to  the  end,  yet  they  were  always  ready  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  that  to  which  they  had  subscribed  their  names 
as  witnesses. 

John  Whitmer  was  released  to  go  to  Missouri,  in  1835,  and  we  have 
Oliver  Cowdery  again  as  the  Church  historian,  and  in  a  short  time  af- 
terwards George  W.  Robinson,  John  Corrill  and  Elias  H'gbee  became 
Church  historians.  In  1841  Robert  B.  Thompson  was  appointed  Church 
historian,  and  he  did  faithful  work  in  the  office,  but  his  life  was  cut 
short.  He  died  ten  months  after  his  appo:ntment.  Brother  James  Sloan 
then  took  the  place  of  historian,  but  he  was  called  to  go  to  Scotland,  and 
Willard  Richards  became  the  General  Recorder  of  the  Church,  in  1843 ; 
and  in  1845  he  became  both  the  historian  and  general  recorder,  and 
kept  this  position  until  his  death,  in  1854.  George  A.  Smith  then  became 
the  General  Church  Historian  and  General  Church  Recorder,  and  ably 
conducted  the  affairs  of  these  offices  during  a  longer  period  of  time  than 
any  other  incumbent  up  to  that  time  or  since.  In  1871,  owing  to  his  duties 
as  one  of  the  counselors  of  President  Young  and  the  Trustee  of  the 
Church,  he  was  released  from  his  pos:tion  as  Historian  and  Albert  Car- 
rington  took  his  place.  Three  years  afterwards  Orson  Pratt  became 
the  Historian,  and  kept  the  office  until  his  death  in  1881,  after  which 
Brother  Wilford  Woodruff  was  sustained  as  Church  Historian  until 
1889,  when  he  was  chosen  President  of  the  Church.  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards then  became  the  Church  Historian  and  remained  in  that  position 
until  his  death,  which  occurred  December  6,  1899.  The  double  office 
of  historian  and  general  Church  recorder  was  first  bestowed  upon  Wil- 
lard Richards,  and  the  double  office  has  been  kept  ever  since  by  the 
one  that  has  been  sustained  as  historian.  There  have  been  several  breth- 
ren sustained  as  assistant  historians  in  the  Church.    The  first  one  was 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wilford  Woodruff;  others  were  Albert  Carrington,  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, John  Jacques,  Amos  Milton  Musser,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr., 
and  A.  William  Lund.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  also  devoted  much 
time  in  the  Historian's  office  and  did  a  splendid  work. 

THE  WORK  OF  THE  HISTORIAN'S  OFFICE 

Now,  as  to  the  work  that  has  been  done  in  the  office.  We  have 
seven  hundred  manuscript  books  that  contain  a  great  deal  of  historical 
matter  that  has  been  collected  during  these  many  years.  In  fact  you 
can  find  .something  for  every  day  in  the  years  that  have  passed.  They 
are  chronologically  inserted,  in  an  elastic  binding,  so  when  we  find  more 
historical  material  it  can  be  inserted  without  having  to  add  other  vol- 
umes, and  information  can  be  quickly  found  when  we  know  about  the 
time  the  event  took  place.  The  indexes  of  persons  and  events  are  very 
extensive  also,  enabling  us  to  answer  without  difficulty  inquiries  made 
in  regard  to  Church  affairs  in  the  stakes,  wards  and  missions. 

Brother  Roberts  edited  the  history  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
or,  as  it  :s  called,  the  History  of  the  Church.  It  was  written  by  the 
Prophet,  or  under  his  direction,  day  by  day,  and  Brother  Roberts  added 
elucidating  notes  as  well  as  a  very  interesting  introduction  to  each  vol- 
ume, setting  forth  the  main  things  treated  of  in  the  volume.  I  would 
advise  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  obtain  these  books,  as  they  are  of  great 
value,  and  are  sold  at  cost  in  order  to  give  all  an  opportunity  to  obtain 
them. 

Brother  Roberts  has  also  written  a  history  of  the  Church  which  has 
been  published  in  an  eastern  magazine,  The  Americana,  which  brings 
the  history  nearly  up  to  our  time.  It  has  been  an  immense  labor,  and 
I  hope  that  the  Church  will  some  time  be  enabled  to  publish  it  so  that 
all  can  enjoy  the  contents  of  this  work. 

Brother  Andrew  Jenson  has  also  written  a  good  many  things  of 
great  value,  and  is  continually  giving  his  mind  to  the  work  of  collat- 
ing and  collecting  data  and  facts  concerning  Church  history.  When  he 
finds  a  new  fact  or  a  new  date  that  he  didn't  know  before,  he  feels  as 
happy  as  the  placer  miner  who  finds  a  nugget  of  gold  in  the  first  pan 
that  he  washes  out,  and  it  is  no  wonder  that  Brother  Jenson  estimates 
the  value  of  the  Historian's  office  at  a  nr'llion  dollars !  It  is  indeed  a 
valuable  collection,  which  cannot  be  estimated  in  dollars  and  cents. 
Brother  Jenson  has  charge  of  the  department  of  recording  events  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  and  hopes  to  finish  that  task.  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Jr.,  has  charge  of  the  department  recording  the  events  for  the  twentieth 
century,  and  the  assistants  in  each  of  these  departments  are  busily  en- 
gaged in  collecting,  arranging  and  indexing  historical  facts. 

The  history  of  the  missions,  of  the  stakes  and  of  the  wards  is 
attended  to,  and  you  who  want  a  history  printed  of  your  ward  or  city 
will  not  be  able  to  make  it  complete  unless  you  apply  to  the  Historian's 
office,  and  you  need  not  pay  out  h:g  sums  of  money,  as  some  have  done, 


PRESIDENT  ANT  HON  H.  LUND. 


1.3 


to  get  histories  written  of  their  cities,  which  after  all  are  not  complete 
and  not  entirely  correct.  We  are  trying  to  prove  every  date  that  we 
give.  I  want  to  .say  concerning  Jenson's  Chronology,  a  work  that  has 
cost  immense  labor,  that  we  would  like  to  see  the  Saints  buy  these  books. 
We  have  a  large  supply  on  hand,  that  belongs  to  the  Historian's  office, 
and  the  book  should  be  useful  in  every  family.  If  it  cannot  be  bought  by 
every  family,  I  think  that  every  association  throughout  Zion  ought  to 
have  one  for  reference. 

But  I  am  taking  too  much  time.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  truth  of  the  gospel.  I  can  say  yes  and  amen  to  the  testimonies  borne 
by  our  President.  Joseph  Smith  was  sent  of  God  to  establish  his  work, 
and  the  gospel  that  we  believe  in  is  the  gospel  of  salvation.  Let  no  one 
shake  your  faith  in  it,  but  be  steadfast,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you 
may  obtain  the  blessings  that  the  gospel  promises.  And  may  God  bless 
you  all.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  once  more  having  the  opportunity  of  meet- 
ing with  the  Latter-da}'  Saints  in  general  conference.  I  have  never  been 
present  at  any  of  the  conferences,  during  the  past  thirty-five  years,  but 
what  I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the  teachings  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord ;  and  I  have  been  fed,  as  you  no  doubt  have  today,  the  bread  of 
life  by  what  we  have  heard. 

INTEGRITY  OF  THE  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  endorse  every  word  that  has  been  spoken  regarding  the  divinity  of 
the  mission  of  the  men  who  have  presided  over  this  Church.  Presi- 
dent Smith  stated  that  he  had  nothing  to  say  regarding  the  present  ad- 
ministration, but  appealed  to  the  people  for  the:r  verdict.  It  has  fallen 
to  my  lot  to  labor  now  for  thirty-five  years,  lacking  a  few  days,  with 
the  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  T  can  bear 
witness  that  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  during  all  this  time  the 
inspiration  of  Almighty  God  has  attended  all  of  the  men  who  have  oc- 
cupied the  positions  in  the  Presidency  of  this  Church.  I  bear  witness 
that  at  no  time  within  my  knowledge  has  any  President  of  the  Church 
had  more  of  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God,  and  more  .of  the  love 
of  h:s  associates  in  the  Presidency  and  of  members  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  than  has  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  bear  witness  to  you 
that  each  and  every  man  chosen  to  occupy  a  position  in  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  during-  the  presidency  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  has  been  chosen 
by  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  from  my 
knowledge  in  visiting  among  the  people  that  there  is  a  love  and  a  faith 
and  a  determination  to  serve  Cod  existing  today,  the  equal  of  any  period 
during  the  past  thirty-five  years. 

I  rejoice  beyond  expression  in  a  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind ; 
that  he  has  spoken  from  the  heavens ;  that  he  has  established 
upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  his  gospel.  I  re- 
joice in  knowing  for  myself  that  all  the  men  who  have  succeeded 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this  last 
dispensation,  have  possessed  the  inspiration  of  the  office  which  they  have 
held,  and  that  they  have  in  very  deed  been  men  of  God,  inspired  of  him. 

I  rejoice  in  knowing  that  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  with  whom  I 
have  come  in  contact  for  tlrrty-five  years,  who  have  been  tithe-payers, 
who  have  been  observers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  have  attended 
their  fast  and  sacrament  meetings,  who  have  attended  to  their  prayers 
and  have  suplicated  God  for  the  guidance  of  his  Spirit,  have  just  as 
an  abiding  testimony  and  as  firm  a  knowledge  and  conviction  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work,  and  of  the  inspiration  which  has  attended  the  men 
who  have  presided  over  it,  as  I  possess. 

GIFTS  AND  GRACES  ENJOYED  BY  THE  SAINTS 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  each  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  embraced  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  has  kept  the  commandments  of  God, 
day  by  day,  year  by  year,  has  grown,  as  our  President  says  that  he  has 
grown,  in  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  in  a  testimony  of  it,  and  in  a  love 
for  it.  I  know  that  there  are  no  gifts,  no  graces,  no  author'ty,  which 
were  possessed  in  the  days  of  the  Savior  by  his  apostles  which  are  not 
possessed  today  by  the  people  of  God.  I  know  that  the  gift  of  tongues 
and  the  interpretation  thereof  exist  in  this  Church  of  Christ.  I  know  that 
the. healing  power  of  Almighty  God  is  in  this  Church.  I  know  that  but 
for  the  healing  power  of  God  it  would  not  be  my  privilege  to  stand  here 
before  you  today.  I  know  that  there  are  living  monuments  of  the  heal- 
ing power  of  God  among  this  people.  If  we  had  a  record  of  all  the 
wonderful  blessings  of  the  Lord  which  have  come  through  the  Priest- 
hood since  the  establishment  of  the  Church  upon  the  earth,  it  would  be 
a  record  far  larger  than  the  New  Testament.  I  know  that  those  who  go 
out  to  proclaim  this  gospel,  who  keep  themselves  sweet,  clean  and  pure 
before  God.  who  keep  their  bodies  and  their  minds  in  such  a  shape  of 
.purity  that  they  are  entitled  to  the  revelations  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  I 
know  that  they  do  receive  the  revelations  of  the  Spirit. 

THE  STABILITY  AND   FAITH   OF  OL'R  MISSIONARIES 

Men  have  proclaimed  this  gospel  now  for  eighty  long  years,  and 
during  that  period,  although  the  world  say  we  are  mistaken,  although 
they  say  Joseph  Smith  was  a  false  prophet,  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  not 
true,  and  claim  that  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are 
not  revelations  of  God.  yet  in  e:ghty  long  years  men  have  gone  out  to 
proclaim  this  gospel,  and  have  come  home  to  testify  to  you  that  God 
has  given  them  an  individual  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  the  Book  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


15 


Mormon,  of  the  truths  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
he  has  given  to  them  an  individual  knowledge  that  he  lives,  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very 
'deed  a  prophet  of  God.  During  all  these  eighty  years  no  single  mission- 
ary has  ever  returned  home  to  announce  that  he  has  found  the  truth  in 
Scandinavia,  or  in  some  other  part  of  Europe,  or  in  South  Africa,  or  in 
Canada,  or  in  any  of  these  United  States,  or  in  Mexico,  or  Central  or 
South  America,  or  upon  the  islands  of  the  Pacific,  Men  and  women  by 
the  hundreds,  yes  by  the  thousands  and  by  the  tens  of  thousands,  have 
received  the  testimony  of  these  missionaries  during  eighty  years,  and 
have  borne  witness  that  they  know  that  they  have  had  the  truth  to  deliver 
to  them,  and  yet  all  the  wisdom  of  all  the  world,  all  the  study  of  all 
the  ministers  of  the  various  denominations  claiming  that  they  have  the 
truth,  have  failed  to  give  the  ability  to  convert  one  of  the  missionaries 
who  it  was  claimed  was  preaching  error.  Why,  it  is  absolutely  ridicu- 
lous, it  is  absurd,  to  think  that  men  of  honesty,  men  of  integrity,  men 
with  prayerful  and  humble  hearts,  men  living  virtuous,  upright  lives, 
and  bowing  down  dailv  for  eighty  long  years  and  supplicating  God  for 
the  guidance  of  his  Spirit,  that  the  Lord  would  never  show  one  of  those 
Elders  the  error  of  his  way  and  lead  him  to  the  true  path  of  rectitude  and 
right  and  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  Why,  if  we  did  not  know  that 
the  gospel  was  true,  do  you  think  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  expend  in 
money  and  in  loss  of  time  about  two  million  dollars  a  year  to  proclaim 
it?  Do  you  think  that  fathers  and  mothers  would  rejoice  more  in  send- 
ing out  their  sons  to  proclaim  the  gospel  than  in  having  them  make  a 
fortune?  Do  you  think  for  one  minute  that  if  there  was  any  lack  of 
faith,  or  a  lack  of  knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
they  would  dare  send  out  their  boys  to  preach?  Why,  they  would  be 
frightened  to  death ;  they  would  be  afraid  of  losing  their  boys.  Have 
we  any  fear  that  all  the  knowledge  of  all  the  world,  that  all  the  learning 
and  study  and  all  the  doctrines  of  the  world  will  convert  one  single, 
honest  Latter-day  Saint  boy?  Not  a  bit  of  it:  not  a  bit  of  it!  We 
know,  as  we  know  that  we  live,  that  they  cannot  convert  our  boys.  Why? 
Because  the  boys  have  the  truth  to  proclaim.  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigr'on  told  the  truth  when  they  sa:d: 

"Now.  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him. 
this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all  which  we  give  of  him,  that  he  lives,  for 
we  saw  him  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God.  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  ;  that  by  h:m 
and  through  him  and  of  him  the  worlds  were  created,  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

The  world  may  say,  "We  don't  believe  it."  but  it  is  a  fact  that  these 
men  did  see  the  Savior.  It  is  a  fact  that  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph 
Smith,  in  the  temple  in  Kirtland.  did  see  the  Savior,  and  that  Moses  and 
Elias  and  Elijah  did  appear,  and  that  all  the  keys  of  the  gospel  of  every 
dispensation  were  conferred  upon  them,  and  the  fruits  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  have  been  enjoyed  by  those  who  have  rendered  obedience 
to  its  truths.    The  growth,  the  strength,  the  power  of  the  gospel  pro- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


claims  the  truth  of  these  things.  The  failure  of  the  wisdom  of  the 
world  to  turn  away  from  the  truth  those  who  have  received  the  witness 
and  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  from'  our  Heavenly  Father,  also  bears 
strong  witness  to  every  thoughtful,  intelligent  man,  of  the  growth  and 
the  power  and  the  strength  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

REASONS  AGAINST  FURNISHING  TOBACCO  FOR  OUR  SOLDIERS 

I  want  to  say  just  a  word  or  two  of  counsel  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  has  been  some  agitation  in  the  papers  advocating  that  men  and 
women  show  their  generosity  and  their  loyalty  to  the  young  men  of 
Utah  who  have  volunteered  and  offered  their  lives  in  defense  of  their 
country,  by  supplying  those  young  men  with  tobacco !  They  are  arguing 
in  the  papers  that  it  is  not  particularly  harmful,  that  it  is  very  mild,  and 
so  on ;  that  our  tobacco  is  better  and  milder  than  the  tobacco  of  France, 
etc.,  etc.  As  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  received  a  revelation  from  Al- 
mighty God  not  to  use  tobacco,  and  it  behooves  us  each  one  to  use  his 
or  her  influence  to  the  uttermost  to  see  that  our  boys  keep  this  command- 
ment of  the  Lord  and  pay  no  attention  to  the  soph:stries  and  the  ideas 
and  the  reasoning  of  men  in  favor  of  the  use  of  tobacco.  The  end  of 
all  controversy  has  been  reached  for  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  because 
the  Lord  has  said,  "Tobacco  is  not  good  for  man."  Tt  is  suggested  that 
the  tobacco  sellers  are  advertising  their  wares.  I  want  to  read  to  you — 
and  the  book  has  opened  at  the  place  I  want  without  my  hunting  for  it — 
what  the  Lord  promises  if  you  and  I  will  refrain  from  hot  drinks  (which 
the  prophet  of  God  said  were  tea  and  coffee),  and  from  liquor  and  strong 
drinks  of  all  kinds,  and  from  tobacco.  Fie  says,  "And  all  Saints  who 
remember  to  keep  and  to  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedience  to  the 
commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their 
bones,  and  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even 
hidden  treasures ;  and  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and 
not  faint ;  and  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise  that  the  destroying 
angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

He  might  have  added,  "And  I  the  Lord  do  not  give  a  promise  unto 
those  who  fail  to  obey  these  commandments,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them  and  not  slay  them." 

I  find  in  this  same  book  that  when  the  Lord  commands,  and  men 
obey  not  his  commands,  then  they  fail  to  get  the  blessing.  Then  men 
say  that  the  promises  of  the  Lord  are  not  true  and  fulfilled ;  but  woe 
unto  such,  for  their  reward  lurketh  from  beneath,  and  not  from  above. 

I  find  in  this  hook,  among  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  you  and  to 
me,  that  when  we  do  the  things  that  the  Lord  commands,  he  declares : 
"Then  am  I  bound."  As  Latter-day  Saints  we  want  to  set  our  faces  as 
flint  against  any  proposition  or  any  propaganda  of  any  kind  which  will 
so  affect  our  children,  if  they  follow  that  propaganda,  that  they  will  not 
he  entitled  to  the  promises  and  the  blessings  that  come  from  keeping  the 
commandments  0f  the  Lord. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


GRATITUDE  FOR  A  KNOWLEDGE  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  thank  the  Lord  again  for  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  for  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  it,  for  a  love  of  the  truth,  for  a  desire  to  labor 
for  it.  There  is  no  labor  in  all  the  world  that  has  ever  brought  to  me 
that  same  joy,  that  same  happiness,  that  same  exqui.s:te  bliss  as  has 
come  to  me  by  being  able  to  testifiy  to  all  the  world  of  my  knowledge 
of  a  Redeemer,  and  of  my  knowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet, 
the  true  and  the  living  prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  did  establish  the 
truth,  and  that  it  will  grow  and  increase  and  prosper  and  that  it  will 
triumph.  The  only  fear  that  I  have  ever  had  has  been  that  I  might 
fail  because  men  w'th  greater  knowledge,  with  far  greater  wisdom,  with 
greater  power  and  inspiration,  who  have  had  more  testimonies  and  more 
wonderful  manifestations  given  to  them  than  I  have  ever  had,  or  ever 
hope  to  have,  through  failure  to  live  the  gospel  have  fallen  by  the  way- 
side. But  I  know  that  if  you  and  I  can  be  humble,  prayerful,  full  of 
love  of  God  and  love  of  our  fellows,  that  we  shall  stand  firm  and  faith- 
ful, and  shall  endure  to  the  end,  which  may  God  grant  is  my  prayer,  and 
I  ask  it  in  humility,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang :  by  President  Frank  Y.  Taylor,  of 

''We   thank    thee,   O  God,  for  a  the  Granite  stake  of  Zion. 
prophet."  Conference    adjourned    until  2 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith  pre- 
sided, and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  : 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor 
labor  fear." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 


Peter  G.  Johnston,  of  the  Union 
stake,  and  member  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "'How  firm  a  founda- 
tion, ye  Saints  of  the  Lord." 


PREST.  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  believe  I  express  the  feeling  and  sentiment  of  all  who  were  present 
at  this  morning's  session  of  the  conference,  when  I  say  that  I  was  greatly 
delighted  and  blessed  by  listening  to  the  instructions  that  were  imparted, 
and  I  hope  that:  the  good  spirit  which  was  present  this  morning  in  rich 
abundance  may  also  be  poured  out  upon  us  gathered  here  this  afternoon. 

ENDORSEMENT  OF   PRESIDENT   SMITH'S  OPENING  ADDRESS 

I  believe  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  long  been  impressed  with  the 
feeling  that  unless  the  Spirit  of  God  accompanies  the  word  that  is 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spoken  it  is  net  refreshing  to  us,  we  are  not  satisfied  with  simply  hearing 
the  principles  that  are  enunciated.  They  are  all  divine,  there  is  not  a 
doctrine  of  the  Church  that  has  not  come  from  a  divine  source,  but  when 
we  listen  to  words  spoken  to  us,  unaccompanied  by  the  inspiration  that 
gave  them  orginally,  we  do  not  feel  satisfied ;  but  no  matter  how  simple 
may  be  the  expressions  that  are  used,  and  how  often  we  have  heard  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church  explained,  we  need  the  accompanying  Spirit  to 
be  present  with  them,  and  unless  it  is  with  the  word,  as  I  have  said,  we 
do  not  feel  satisfied.  I  felt  fully  satisfied  this  morning.  I  was  afraid  that 
the  President  was  going  a  little  beyond  the  time  he  intended  to  occupy, 
because  he  did  need  to  reserve  his  strength ;  but  to  me  it  was  just  right. 
Everything  that  he  said  was  right.  And  the  time  that  he  occupied  was 
sufficient  for  us,  although  we  are  always  eager  to  hear  him,  no  matter 
how  long  he  may  feel  inclined  to  speak.  The  words  that  were  spoken 
to  us  this  morning  by  the  speakers  were  impressive  and  precious,  and 
the  Spirit  of  God  was  with  them,  and  I  rejoice  that  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  being  here  today. 

Now  I  desire  that  I  may  speak  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  becaues  I  never  feel  satisfied  in  my  soul  when  I  am  called  upon  to 
address  a  congregation,  unless  I  can  feel  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  with 
me.  When  I  ,do  know  that,  then  I  feel  measurably  satisfied,  although 
I  am  occas'onally  somewhat  dissatisfied  with  myself  when  I  sit  down ;  but 
when  I  realize  that  the  Spirit  of  Gcd  has  been  with  me,  and  particularly 
when  I  feel  that  I  was  inspired  to  say  the  things  that  came  to  my  mind, 
then  I  am  satisfied,  and  I  glorify  and  praise  the  Lord. 

CHOIR   LEADERS   AND   CONGREGATIONAL  SINGING 

While  we  were  singing  the  first  hymn  I  was  thinking  about  a  custom 
that  was  in  vogue  when  I  was  a  boy.  It  was  a  game  called  "Follow 
your  leader."  Generally  there  was  a  great  deal  of  mischief  attached  to 
it.  I  don't  want  to  attach  that  to  my  remarks  now,  but  I  do  wish  that 
the  congregation  would  follow  the  leader  in  the  singing.  When  we  sing, 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear,"  there  needs  to  be  a 
kind  of  a  vim  to  it.  But  when  it  is.  "C-o-m-e,  c-o-m-e,  y-e  S-a-i-n-t-s 
(Vnging  slowly  fn  imitation],  it  is  not  very  invigorating.  I  have  heard 
hymns  sung  in  some  of  our  congregations  in  the  wards,  and  the  time  was 
something  like  that  which  I  tried  to  imitate  just  now.  Follow  your 
leader  in  the  singing,  and  if  he  understands  music  anything  like  as  well 
as  Brother  Tony  Lund  does,  why,  he  will  be  right  in  the  time  as  well  as 
in  the  tune ;  and  the  leaders  might  take  a  lesson  from  him  by  adapting 
the  time  to  the  sentiment.  He  is  right ;  he  follows  the  music,  and  he 
understands  the  spirit  of  the  hymn  or  song,  he  will  lead  you  properly, 
and  I  hope  that  the  leaders  in  the  congregations  of  Israel — we  have 
a  good  many  fine  musical  men,  men  of  talent  in  music — I  hope  that  they 
will  learn  that  lesson,  adapting  the  time  to  the  music,  and  when  it  needs 
a  little  stirring  up.  why,  stir  it  up  and  then  get  the  congregation  to 
"follow  the  leader." 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


19 


LEADERS   IN  ISRAEL 

We  had  a  strong  testimony  this  morning  from  President  Smith 
concerning  the  great  men  who  have  been  our  leaders  in  Israel  from  the 
time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  down  to  the  time  of  our  present  ad- 
ministration. Of  course  he  was  too  modest  to  say  anything  about  his 
own,  but  Brother  Grant  made  up  for  it  somewhat,  and  I  wish  to  add  my 
testimony  to  Brother  Grant's  concerning  the  present  leader  in  Israel.  I 
have  known  him  for  many  years,  I  have  always  known  of  him  favorably. 
I  know  that  he  is  a  man  of  God,  I  know  that  his  heart  is  set  to  do  the 
will  of  God  and  to  teach  men  so.  He  always  has  been  in  that  mind 
ever  since  I  first  became  acquainted  with  h:m,  and  in  later  years,  when 
I  have  been  intimately  associated  with  him,  I  have  learned  more  and 
more  to  admire  him  and  to  have  confidence  in  him  an.d  in  his  word,  and 
to  regard  him  as  a  true  leader,  the  presen-day  leader  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  on  the  earth,  having  all  the  authority,  keys  and  powers  be- 
stowed by  the  various  ministers  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who 
came  to  him  from  on  high.  They  have  been  handed  down  intact  and 
have  remained  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
that  was  organized  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  in  the  year  1830,  without 
a  break,  right  down  to  the  present  day,  and  that  authority  revealed  from 
heaven  and  those  keys  restored  by  heavenly  messengers  are  :n  the 
Church  today,  and  our  leader,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  holds  the  keys,  the 
presidency  therein,  over  all  the  priesthood  and  authority  and  membership 
in  the  Churcha  and  in  saying  tbat  I  mean  I  have  full  confidence  in  him 
in  that  capacity,  as  a  man,  as  a  servant  of  God.  I  believe  this  is  shared 
by  the  people  generally  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land 
that  we  can  call  Zion. 

The  land  of  Zion,  the  land  on  wtr'ch  Zion  shall  be,  extends  from  the 
extreme  north  to  the  extreme  south  of  this  continent,  but  Zion  does 
not  extend  so  far  at  present.  Sometimes  I  think  we  can  hardly  call 
this  Zion  where  we  dwell,  when  we  contemplate  the  mixture  that  we 
have,  and  the  amount  of  evils  that  exist  among  us,  not  produced  per- 
haps by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  except  in  a  few  instances,  but  we  are  a 
mixed  people  here  now,  and  the  Zion  of  God,  so  the  Lord  has  revealed, 
is  composed  of  the  pure  in  heart.  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for 
they  shall  see  God"  was  one  of  the  beatitudes  uttered  by  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth in  that  wonderful  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Today  we  can  say,  I 
think,  that  this  assembly  is  Zion.  Not  that  we  are,  anv  of  us,  perfect 
or  claiming  to  be  perfect,  but  we  are  trying  to  be  Saints  of  God  in 
the  full  sense  of  the  term,  and  if  we  will  follow  our  leader,  particularly 
in  his  instructions  to  us.  like  those  we  had  this  morning,  we  will  be 
so  indeed.  I  never  hear  him  preach,  but  he  speaks  under  the  influence 
of  the  Lord,  and  gives  afood  counsel  to  the  people,  and  everybody, 
whether  members  of  the  Church  or  not.  who  will  hearken  to  his  voice 
and  be  guided  by  him  in  the  things  that  he  teaches,  will  be  led  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  way  that  terminates  in  the  presence  of  the  Eternal 
Father.    If  we  will  follow  h:m  we  will  be  all  right,  not  the  slightest 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


doubt  of  it  in  the  world,  and  I  bear  my  testimony,  added  to  that  of 
Brother  Grant,  that  I  know  he  is  a  servant  of  the  Most  High,  and  that 
his  whole  heart  and  desire  are  for  the  benefit  and  building  up  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth,  and  the  glorification  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  and  the.  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Chrst,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  Most  H'gh  God,  in  that  he  is  thoroughly 
and  completely  sincere,  and  his  heart  is  set  to  proclaim  this  to  the  world, 
and  has  been  ever  since  I  have  known  him,  and  a  long  time  before. 
And  my  desire  is  that  he  may  remain  many  years  on  the  earth  to  lead 
the  people.  That  is  in  the  hands  of  God,  of  course,  but  I  feel  that  we 
need  him,  that  Zion  needs  him,  that  Zion  wants  h:m,  and  that  the  people 
of  this  church  desire  in  their  hearts  that  he  may  be  sustained  with 
health  and  strength  of  body  and  mind,  and  that  all  things  may  work  to- 
gether that  he  may  remain  among  us  and  be  our  leader  for  many  years 
to  come. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  ANCIENT  AND  LIVING  LEADERS 

Now,  there  is  an  item  or  two  connected  with  that  that  I  feel  I 
would  like  to  say  a  word  or  two  about  to  this  congregation,  and  the 
point  is  this,  that  no  matter  what  may  have  been  taught  in  olden  times 
in  regard  to  the  policy  of  the  Church  of  God.  no  matter  what  command- 
ments have  been  given  in  regard  to  the  administration  of  its  affairs 
at  other  times,  we  are  today  under  the  direction  of  the  living  oracles. 
The  living  word  of  God  comes  to  us  through  the  man  that  stands  at  the 
head,  in  preference  to  anything  that  has  been  written  aforet:me,  or 
spoken  in  our  own  days.  Circumstances  change,  and  a  change  of  in- 
structions becomes  necessary.  As  the  different  circumstances  arise  dif- 
ferent policies  have  to  be  engaged  in,  and  when  the  man  that  stands  at 
the  head  leads  out  in  any  direction  in  regard  to  these  matters,  we  will 
be  perfectly  safe  in  following  him. 

OUR  LEADERS  AND  THE  WAR 

Some  of  our  people,  some  that  are  very  pacific  become  critical  as 
to  our  war  policy.  I  don't  wonder  that  some  of  our  sisters,  our  mothers 
in  Israel,  feel  very  tender-hearted  just  now,  when  they  have  to  allow 
their  dear  ones,  their  sons,  the  boys  of  thier  hearts,  to  go  into  the  armies 
of  the  United  States,  with  the'  prospect  of  going  abroad,  perhaps,  and 
being  sent  to  the  front,  and  being  engaged  practically  in  war.  They 
'feel  sad  in  their  hearts  and  almost  refuse  to  be  comforted,  and  they 
want  consolation,  and  a  few  of  them  feel  rebellious  in  their  hearts  in 
regard  to  it,  and  think  that  there  is  fault  in  the  leaders  of  the  people 
in  permitting  and  encouraging  such  things.  Now  I  hope  that  such 
feelings  will  be  entirely  eradicated,  and  when  the  man  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  our  affairs  says,  "This  policy  is  right,"  let  our  boys  go  as  the.'/ 
are  called  upon  by  their  country,  to  defend  the  rights  of  the  people,  to 
establish  liberty,  to  extend  freedom  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  to 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


21 


make  potent  abroad  the  principles  that  are  so  great  and  strong  at  home, 
that  the  nations  of  he  earh  may  come  to  share  in  our  freedom;"  when 
he  says  that  is  the  right  thing  to  do,  lets  us  all  feel  that  we  will  follow 
our  leader  and  will  say,  too,  in  our  hearts,  that  is  right,  that  is  the  word 
of  the  Lord  unto  us.  It  is  written  in  the  scriptures,  "Thou  shalt  not 
kill,"  and  yet  on  the  back  of  that  very  often  the  Lord  told  his  people  to  go 
forth  in  battle  and  slay  all  the  people  in  certain  places  because  of  their 
corruption.  He  holds  the  power  of  life  and  of  death,  and  what  he  says 
is  right,  and  what  he  reveals  through  his  servants  the  prophets,  when 
they  hold  the  keys  that  I  have  been  talking  about,  and  the  prophets  are 
led  of  him,  what  they  say  is  right,  no  matter  what  we  may  think  or 
feel.  It  is  not  r:ght  for  us  to  engage  in  the  shedding  of  human  blood, 
for  vengeance  or  retaliation.  But  when  the  Lord  commands  or  inspires 
his  servants  to  counsel  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Israel  to  lend  their 
aid  in  the  work  of  righteous  warfare,  that  is  different.  The  Lord  has 
told  us  what  we  may  do  in  our  own  cases  when  our  enemies  come  upon 
us,  we  are  to  forgive  them  if  they  repent.  If  they  do  not  repent  we  are 
to  forgive  them  two,  three  and  even  four  times,  but  when  they  continue 
in  their  evil  work  we  are  not  to  submit,  to  allow  ourselves  and  our 
liberties  to  be  trampled  under  foot.  We  are  to  arise  in  our  might  and  in 
our  strength  and  go  forth  to  victory ;  not  with  a  desire  to  shed  blood, 
not  with  the  desire  to  destroy  our  fellow  creatures,  but  in  self  defense 
and  because  we  do  want  to  maintain  and  hand  down  to  our  posterity  those 
sacred  principles  of  liberty  that  have  been  revealed  from  on  high.  Let 
us  look  upon  it  in  that  l:ght,  and  we  will  have  no  fault  to  find,  I  think, 
with  our  brethren  who  advise  them  to  enter  the  armies  of  the  United 
States  and  obey  the  commanding  officers  that  are  placed  over  them,  no 
matter  what  that  may  lead  them  to. 

It  is  gladdening  to  my  heart  that  so  many  of  our  good  boys  are  will- 
ing to  stand  up  in  the  defense  of  their  country,  and  in  the  defense  of  their 
homes,  for  that  is  what  it  amounts  to  doing.  If  we  permit  tyranny  and 
oppression  to  go  forth,  rampant  among  the  naf'ons,  and  overturn  these 
great  principles  which  have  brought  us  so  much  liberty  and  so  much  power 
and  influence  in  the  earth,  why,  we  shall  be  trodden  under  foot  and  these 
blessings  that  we  enjoy  and  want  to  extend  to  the  nations  will  be  thrown 
down  in  the  dust,  and  overcome  by  the  powers  of  evil.  The  power  of 
Satan  is  great  in  the  earth  today.  It  has  been  accumulating  during  the 
centuries  that  have  passed,  through  the  experiences  that  the  evil  powers 
have  obtained  in  "ruling  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  disobedience." 
But  the  time  is  near  at  hand  when  that  power  will  be  cast  down  and  Satan 
will  be  bound,  and  his  hosts  with  him,  in  the  place  of  banishment  prepared 
for  them,  and  the  earth  be  delivered  from  that  bondage  that  came  and 
entered  into  the  world  when  our  first  parents  broke  the  commandment  of 
God.  The  earth  has  had  its  experiences,  too,  and  the  time  is  coming  when 
it  will  be  delivered  from  thraldom,  sp'iritually  as  well  as  physically,  and 
be  redeemed  from  bondage  and  darkness,  and  love  and  light  and  liberty 
will  pervail  over  the  face  of  all  the  globe,  and  Jesus  Christ  will  be  our 
leader  and  our  king,  and  the  only  king  that  we  will  bow  down  to. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


OUR  GUIDES,  THE  TEACHINGS  OF  BOTH  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN  PROPHETS 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  quite  important,  and  in  regard  to 
the  scriptures — I  believe  in  the  scriptures,  I  believe  that  the  holy  book 
called  the  Bible — the  Old  Testament  as  well  as  the  New  Testament, 
contains  the  word  of  God.  I  don't  think  that  everything  that  is  written 
in  it  is  the  word  of  God,  nor  do  any  of  us,  I  suppose,  because  in  it  are 
the  words  of  the  devil  and  the  words  of  wicked  men,  and  the  wor-ds 
of  wicked  women ;  but  that  which  is  revealed  in  it  as  the  word 
of  God  is  true,  of  course,  and  the  fundamental  principles  revealed 
for  the  obedience  of  the  human  family  are  all  true.  They  were 
so  in  the  beginning,  and  are  today,  and  will  be  forever.  The  doc- 
trines of  faith  in  the  living  and  true  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
he  has  sent,  and  of  repentance  from  evil,  turning  away  from 
evil  to  the  good,  and  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins,  to  cleanse  the 
repentant,  believing  sinner,  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  imparting 
of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  and  eter- 
nal judgment,' — these  are  among  the  first  principles  of  the  oracles  of  God 
as  we  are  taught  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  and  they  stand  forever. 
They  were  so  in  the  very  beginning,  were  taught  to  our  father  Adam  and 
our  mother  Eve,  after  they  were  driven  from  the  garden  for  their  dis- 
obedience, and  were  handed  down  right  to  the  time  when  the  people  dem- 
onstrated that  they  would  not  receive  them,  and  then  the  Lord  added  the 
law  through  Moses  as  a  schoolmaster  to  bring  them  to  Christ,  to  the 
original  principles  of  life  and  salvation.  The  children  of  Israel  under 
Moses,  so  we  read,  were  baptized  "in  the  cloud  and  in  the  sea,"  and  they 
partook  of  that  spiritual  rock  that  followed  them,  which  rock  was  Christ. 
But  through  the  hardness  of  their  hearts  and  their  disobedience  to  those 
higher  principles,  the  Lord  gave  them  the  lesser  law,  which  remained 
among  them  for  a  long  time.  And  then  Jesus  our  Redeemer  came,  as 
"the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  full  of  grace  and  truth,"  and  reintro- 
duced the  higher  principles  of  salvation,  and  those  who  obeyed  received 
the  benefits  thereof,  as  we  read  :n  the  New  Testament. 

It  is  the  same  in  these  latter  days,  wherever  this  restored  Gospel  is 
preached,  and  people  receive  it  and  are  obedient  to  it,  and  they  receive  the 
blessings  that  belong  to  it.  We  old  missionaries  have  proved  this  by 
our  experience  in  many  lands.  Wherever  we  have  gone  with  the  gospel 
and  preached  faith  and  repentance  and  baptism,  and  the  power  and  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  obedience  to  every  word  that  comes  from  the 
mouth  of  God,  and  people  have  bowed  down  to  that,  no  matter  how  well 
or  how  badly  we  preached,  how  simple  we  might  be,  how  unlearned,  un- 
lettered, we  might  be,  when  they  received  these  principles,  the  power  of 
God  accompanied  our  administrations,  the  Holy  Ghost  was  given  to  the 
repentant  believers  who  were  baptized,  and  the  gifts  of  the  gospel  that 
we  read  about  in  the  old  scriptures  followed  them  also ;  the  sick  were 
healed;  great  and  wonderful  mairfestations  of  the  power  of  God  physic- 
ally and  spiritually  were  given.  I  know  it  by  my  own  experience.  I 
don't  want  to  take  up  the  time  relating  details  of  these  things,  but  I 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


23 


know  that  every  gift  and  blessing  and  power  spoken  of  in  the  old 
scriptures  as  following  obedience  to  the  gospel  of  Christ,  has  followed 
the  preaching  and  obedience  to  it  in  these  latter  days,  and  we  give 
the  glory  to  God  for  the  manifestations  of  his  power  and  the  divinity 
of  th:s  work. 

In  the  early  Christian  church  there  were  many  little  things  that  had 
to  be  done  that  we  do  not  have  to  do  today,  and  there  are  many  things  in 
these  latter  days  that  we  have  to  do  which  they  knew  nothing  about  then. 
But  when  we  have  a  man,  as  we  have  now,  and  as  we  have  had  from  the 
days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  down,  to  lead  us  and  direct  us,  that  is  the 
thing  to  do,  never  mind  whether  it  was  done  aforetime.  For  instance, 
Paul  told  the  people  in  his  day,  when  writing  to  Timothy,  that  a  bishop 
was  to  be  blameless ;  he  was  to  be  the  husband  of  one  wife ;  that  is,  we 
understand  he  meant  that  he  was  to  at  least  have  one  wife.  Sometimes 
we  have  bishops  that  do  not  have  even  one  wife.  Well,  is  it  right  to 
retain  a  man  as  bishop  when  he  has  not  a  wife  at  all?  Yes,  if  the  man  at 
the  head  says  that  is  right,  that  he  is  the  right  man.  He  will  get  a  wife 
in  good  time — no  doubt  he  will  if  he  is  "the  right  man  in  the  right  place." 
Now,  is  there  any  contradiction  in  that ?  Not  at  all.  Why?  Because  the 
man  who  stands  at  our  head  has  all  the  authority  and  a  little  more  than 
Paul  had  when  he  lived  on  the  earth.  So  in  regard  to  other  little  matters. 
Some  of  the  critics  ask  sometimes,  "why  do  you  have  young  men,  even 
boys,  for  deacons,  when  the  New  Testament  teaches  that  a  deacon  should 
have  one  wife?  How  is  it  that  you  have  deacons  that  don't  have  any 
wives,  and  perhaps  are  not  old  enough  to  marry?"  Well,  because  that  is 
the  order  today,  and  that  is  just  as  good  as  the  order  that  was  common 
formerly.  Who  gave  the  order?  Why,  a  man  that  had  authority  in  the 
Church  in  certain  localities,  and  I  suppose  if  we  knew  the  c'rcumstances 
that  existed  then,  we  would  understand  exactly  why  that  declaration  was 
made.  Today  we  are  under  other  circumstances  and  it  is  a  splendid,  good, 
thing  to  have  our  young  men  and  boys  just  emerging  into  manhood,  to 
be  trained  in  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  so  we  give  them  that  office  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  which  we  call  the  Deacon.  It  is  an  office  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  they  are  trained  up  in  that,  should  be  trained  up 
in  that,  until  they  are  prepared  to  receive  the  higher  grades  in  that  priest- 
hood, or  be  advanced  to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

These  things  have  been  revealed  in  greater  plainness,  in  more  detail, 
and  with  more  power  and  authority  and  influence  than  the  things  that  we 
read  about  in  the  Old  Testament  or  in  the  New.  And  the  Church  is 
organized  today  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  by  revelations  direct  from 
on  high,  not  taken  out  of  books.  And  the  power  and  authority  are  here, 
and  we  should  follow  our  leader,  and  what  he  says  is  right ;  he  does  not 
vary  from  the  things  that  God  has  revealed.  Now  then,  if  you  will  just 
get  that  principle  clear  in  your  minds,  brethren  and  sisters,  or  those  few 
brethren  and  s:sters  that  do  not  see  them, — I  think  most  of  you  do, — that 
would  do  away  with  a  good  many  difficulties  that  arise.  Explanations 
are  wanted  very  frequently  that  somebody  has  raised  a  question  about  in 
some  of  our  classes.    These  classes  that  you  have  for  reading  the  scrip- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tures,  old  and  new— don't  forget  the  new  or  latter-day  scriptures.  These 
classes  should  study  the  Bible  and  the  New  Testament  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  they  are  to  be  sustained,  they 
are  all  right;  but,  friends,  don't  raise  questions  to  make  controversy,  to 
show  how  smart  you  are,  because  you  can  find  discrepancy  between  some- 
thing that  was  said  aforetime  and  something  that  has  been  said  in  latter 
times.  My  point  is  simply  this :  That  this  Church  that  we  belong  to  is  a 
new  dispensation ;  the  "dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,"  and  that 
everything  essential  that  was  had  in  former  dispensations  is  right  here 
among  us,  and  a  little  more. 

The  Lord  promised  that  he  would  reveal  things  kept  hid  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world.  What  are  you  going  to  do  about  that,  if  you 
want  everything  to  conform  to  that  which  was  in  vogue  aforetime?  Now, 
don't  think  for  a  moment  that  I  want  to  say  anything  against  the  scrip- 
tures. We  believe  in  them ;  I  have  quoted  them  freely.  I  have  gained 
the  day  many,  many  times  in  disputes  with  people  who  were  opposed, 
because  I  understood  something  about  the  scriptures.  I  believe  in  the 
Bible,  I  believe  in  the  Old  Testament  and  in  the  New,  and  I  believe  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  I  believe  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  have  read  them  and  pondered  upon  them  and 
prayed  about  them ;  but  the  real,  essential  thing  in  these  remarks  is  that 
the  living  oracles  are  in  the  Church  today,  and  the  man  standing  at  the 
head  as  our  leader  has  all  the  authority  and  the  power,  the  keys  and  gifts, 
to  lead  the  people,  that  was  ever  had  on  the  earth  in  the  Priesthood.  Now 
let  us  be  thankful  for  this  and  be  guided  by  it.  Some  people  want  us  to 
do  today  everything  that  the  ancient  apostles  pointed  out  for  their  day. 
You  know  Paul  wrote  to  Timothy  and  told  him  to  "use  a  little  wine  for 
his  stomach's  sake  and  his  often  infirmities."  He  said,  "use  no  longer 
water."  Now,  we  don't  say  that.  We  use  water;  use  it  in  the  sacra- 
ment; use  it  for  our  meals;  it  is  the  best  kind  of  element  you  can  have 
for  drink.  Well,  shall  we  use  a  little  wine  for  our  stomach's  sake,  and  our 
often  infirmities  ?  There  was  an  old  lady  I  used  to  see  abroad  quite  often, 
and  she  used  to  keep  a  little  wine — perhaps  it  was  something  a  little 
stronger,  I  don't  know.  She  used  to  take  a  little  nip  every  now  and  then. 
"Why,"  I  said,  "Sister,  what  makes  you  do  that?"  "Why,  Brother,"  she 
said,  "I  does  it  because  Paul  taught  it,  I  does  it  for  my  'fummities.'  "  She 
had  thought  she  had  all  the  infirmites  and  she  called  them  her  "fummi- 
ties." She  took  a  little  wine  for  those  "fummities."  Now,  we  are  not 
obliged  to  do  that  because  Paul  advised  Timothy  to  do  it.  A  noted  tee- 
totaler, when  he  was  asked  why  he  did  not  fellow  the  advice  of  Paul, 
answered,  "Well,  in  the  first  place  my  name  is  not  Timothy,  and  in  the 
next  place,  I  have  not  any  infirmities,"  so  he  was  willing  to  use  water.  1 
merely  speak  of  that  by  way  of  illustration. 

I  remember  a  man  raising  a  controversy  over  Paul  saying  to  Tim- 
othy, "The  cloak  that  I  left  at  Troas,  bring  with  thee."  "Now,"  he  says, 
"what  does  that  mean,  that  cloak?"  "Why,"  I  said,  "it  means  a  cloak,  I 
suppose ;  Paul  forgot  his  cloak,  left  it  behind,  with  some  parchments  that 
he  spoke  about,  and  he  told  Timothy  to  bring  it  along  with  the  documents. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


25 


We  do  not  need  to  discuss  anything  now  about  his  needing  a  cloak,  or 
about  bringing  a  parchment.  I  just  mention  this  to  show  how  silly  it  is 
for  people  to  harp  on  some  text  in  the  New  Testament  or  in  the  Old 
Testament,  and  try  to  make  controversies  over  apparent  contradictions  or 
.present  omissions.  Every  doctrine  that  is  in  the  Bible  we  believe  in.  We 
believe  in  faith,  we  believe  in  hope,'  we  believe  in  charity,  we  believe  in 
love,  we  believe  in  fidelity,  we  believe  in  honesty,  we  believe  in  truthful- 
ness, and  everything  that  is  good  and  true  and  moral,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  teaches  and  inculcates,  and  our  leader 
stands  out  preeminently  in  these  things,  and  we  can  afford  to  follow  him. 

Now,  don't  forget,  we  are  in  the  Church — I  was  going  to  say  our 
own — well,  it  is  our  Church,  although  it  does  not  belong  to  us,  we  belong 
to  it.  The  Church  is  Christ's  Church,  He  made  it,  He  revealed  it,  all  the 
words  of  God  to  the  people  have  come  through  him,  and  we  look  up  to 
him  as  our  living  head.  But  our  head  on  the  earth  here  in  the  flesh  is  the 
man  who  now  presides  over  us,  and  this  Church  is  sui  generis.  It  has 
something  to  impart  of  itself  in  its  own  age,  and  all  that  we  want  for  our 
guidance  and  direction  in  it  will  come  through  living  oracles.  Their 
teachmgs  are  in  conformity  with  the  principles  and  doctrines,  the  ordi- 
nances and  philosophy  and  things  contained  in  the  Old  Testament  and  in 
the  New ;  but  in  regard  to  the  policies,  we  may  have  to  change,  because 
circumstances  change,  that  is  another  thing  entirely.  We  live  in  the 
present  and  receive  instructions  suited  to  the  present. 

WE  STAND  FOR  LIBERTY  AND  FREEDOM  FROM  OPPRESSION 

Now,  it  is  a  good  thing  for  us  people  here  in  Utah,  being  a  part  of 
this  great  government,  to  stand  by  it  in  the  present  conflict.  It  is  the 
finest  system  of  government  on  the  earth,  no  matter  about  the  defects  of 
people  that  are  in  it  and  some  of  those  that  stand  at  the  head  of  affairs  in 
various  localities, — there  is  no  such  a  government  on  the  earth,  in  its 
principles,  and  my  belief  is  that  they  will  go  forth  to  all  the  world.  I  can 
see  in  this  tumult  occurring  now  that  the  purposes  of  God  will  be  accom- 
plished in  extending  the  principles  of  liberty  and  of  freedom  from  oppres- 
sion, of  true  forms  of  government  throughout  the  world.  If  it  must  be  by 
war,  why,  it  will  have  to  come,  that  is  all.  Not  that  we  love  war  or  want 
to  kill  anybody,  but  we  want  to  stand  tip  for  our  rghts,  and  the  rights  of 
our  neighbors,  and  the  riehts  of  our  children  and  grandchildren,  and  those 
that  shall  come  after  us,  that  they  mav  enjoy  all  these  Morions  principles, 
and  that  they  may  go  forth  to  every  land,  as  I  believe  they  will.  What  a 
blessing  it  is  that  the  people  here  have  and  exhibit  fidelity  to  the  govern- 
ment under  which  they  live!  We  believe  in  its  prinrples,  they  are  God- 
given.  We  want  to  stand  up  for  them,  no  matter  how  circumstances  may 
require  us  to  do  so,  whether  it  be  by  devoting  part  of  our  money,  our  in- 
come, or  by  permitting  our  sons  and  our  brothers  and  our  fathers  to  go 
forth  to  serve  in  the  armies  of  the  nation,  to  defend  it  against  its  foes. 
Whatever  it  may  be,  and  the  man  who  stands  at  our  head  says  it  is  right. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  will  stay  by  him,  because  we  want  to  stay  by  the  right.  That  is  the 
idea. 

OUR  WORK  AND  CALLING  IN  THE  WORLD 

Now,  remember  this  is  the  Church  established  in  the  last  days,  the 
beginning  of  the  kingdom  that  all  the  prophets  of  Israel  and  all  the  seers 
and  sages  among  the  heathens,  and  the  philosophers  and  poets  of  the 
world  foresaw,  when  the  nations  of  the  earth  should  be  bound  together  in 
one  bond.  That  first  all  there  would  be  wars  and  plagues  and  destruc- 
tion, and  the  wicked  would  slay  the  wicked,  but  the  principles  of  liberty 
would  ultimately  prevail,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  should  spread  over  all 
the  earth,  like  Daniel  saw  in  the  vision,  and  the  way  be  prepared  for  the 
coming  of  the  rightful  king,  Jesus  Christ,  our  Head.  Those  ancient 
worthies  may  not  all  have  seen  about  Christ,  but  they  did  foresee  the 
establishment  of  peace  on  the  foundation  of  righteousness.  And  now 
our  work  in  the  earth,  our  calling,  and  what  we  are  for,  what  we  are  here 
on  the  earth  to  do,  is  to  build  up  righteousness,  to  establish  truth,  to  send 
and  carry  the  gospel  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth,  and  bring  to- 
gether those  that  will  love  he  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments,  walk 
in  his  ways,  be  baptized  with  h:s  baptism,  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  enlightens  the  soul  and  leads  mankind  to  righteousness  and  obedi- 
ence to  the  commandments  of  God.    That  is  our  work  and  mission. 

OUR  MISSION  AMONG  THE  SAINTS  AT  HOME 

Among  the  Saints,  it  is  to  establish  harmony  and  union,  and  not 
discord,  not  to  raise  up  strife  on  little  technicalities  on  old  texts  of  scrip- 
ture, or  modern  texts  of  scripture,  but  receive  the  word  of  God  in  honest 
hearts  and  carry  it  out  in  our  homes,  in  our  families,  in  our  neighbor- 
hoods, wherever  we  go,  carrying  with  us  this  divine  Spirit  that  is  being 
poured  out  from  on  high.  God  will  qualify  us  for  every  task.  I  know 
this  in  my  own  experience.  I  know  that  God  does  inspire  his  servants  in 
the  latter  days  to  do  the  work  which  they  are  called  upon  to  perforin, 
whatever  it  may  be,  and  that  his  Spirit  will  go  with  them  wherever  they 
go  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  if  they  keep  themselves  clean  and  unspotted 
from  the  world,  and  walk  in  his  ways,  and  set  a  pattern  worthy  of  im:- 
tation. 

But  I  am  going  beyond  my  time,  so  I  will  close  my  remarks.  I  am 
thankful  to  be  here.  I  praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow,  that  I 
have  been  able  to  be  here  today  and  to  hear  those  inspired  words  given  to 
us  this  morning,  and  may  God  help  me  and  you  to  continue  in  the  faith, 
to  serve  him,  to  build  up  his  kingdom  and  aid  in  preparing  the  way  for  the 
coming  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Evan   Arthur    sang  the    solo:  "Arm,  arm,  ye  brave." 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


27 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

The  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  and  its 
power  and  authority — Impartiality 
of  God  in  bestowing  the  priesthood 
— The  number  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood in  the  Church — Those  who 
are  worthy  and  magnify  their  call- 
ings will  receive  the  blessings — 
Courses  of  study  tor  the  priesthood 
— Benefits  of  these  studies  open  to 
all — Invitation  to  join  the  classes — 
Testimony. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am 
in  full  accord  with  the  spirit  of  this 
conference,  with  the  counsels  and 
testiomny  of  our  President  this 
morning-,  and  of  his  brethren  who 
have  spoken.  Their  words  have 
been  very  precious  to  me,  and  T  re- 
joice in  them. 

The  Holy  Being  whom  we  have 
gathered  in  to  worship  this  after- 
noon is  no  respecter  of  persons. 
This  he  has  declared  with  his  own 
voice,  speaking  through  Joseph 
Smith  to  the  peonle,  in  words 
something  like  the  following: 

"Now  therefore,  be  ye  strong 
from  henceforth.  Fear  not.  for  the 
kingdom  is  yours.  And  for  your 
salvation,  I  give  you  a  command- 
ment, for  I  have  heard  vour 
pravers,  and  the  poor  have  com- 
olained  before  me,  and  the  rich 
have  T  made,  and  all  flesh  is  mine, 
and  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons." 

In  view  of  the  vast  multitude  of 
God's  children  who  dwell  upon  the 
earth,  this  is  a  very  remarkable 
statement,  and  the  fact  that  God  is 
absolutely  impartial  is  not  more 
clearly  shown,  I  think,  in  any  scrip- 
ture than  in  the  glorious  Priest- 
hood which  we  have  received.  The 
priesthood  referred  to  is  composed 
of  two  great  heads  or  divisions. 
The  one  is  called  the  Melchizedek, 
or    Higher    Priesthood,    and  the 


other  the  Aaronic  or  Lesser  Priest- 
hood, but,  as  I  understand  it,  it  is 
all  one  priesthood,  the  lesser  grow- 
ing out  of  the  greater.  Now,  the 
scope  and  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood is  most  clearly  defined  in  a 
revelation  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  March,  1835,  in 
Section  107  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  these  very  direct  and 
impressive  words : 

"The  power  and  authority  of  the 
Higher  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  is 
to  hold  the  keys  of  all  the  spiritual 
blessings  of  the  Church — 

"To  have  the  privilege  of  receiving 
the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en— to  have  the  heavens  opened  unto 
them — to  commune  with  the  general 
assembly  and  Church  of  the  first  born, 
and  to  enjoy  the  communion  and  pres- 
ence of  God  the  Father,  and  Jesus  the 
Mediator  of  the  new  covenant. 

"The  power  and  authoriy  of  the 
lesser,  or  Aaronic  Priesthood,  is  to 
hold  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  an- 
gels, and  to  administer  in  outward 
ordinances,  the  letter  of  the  gospel-- 
the  baptism  of  repentance  for  the  re 
mission  of  sins,  agreeable  to  he  cove- 
nants and  commandments." 

Now,  we  very  well  know  that  in 
these  two  great  priesthoods  there 
are  various  offices  or  callings,  as  for 
instance,  in  the  Higher  Priesthood, 
we  have  the  offices  of  aoostle,  high 
priest,  seventv,  and  elder ;  and  in 
the  Lesser  Priesthood,  that  of  bish- 
op, priest,  teacher,  and  deacon  ;  and 
thus  we  see  that  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided these  various  offices  for  the 
benefit  and  blessing  of  the  members 
of  his  Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
every  man's  privilege  in  our  Church 
to  receive  throueh  his  worthiness, 
the  priesthood,  and  I  misdat  add  it  is 
his  privilege  bv  rfeht  divine  because 
the  priesthood  of  God  comes  with 
the  pospel  and  belongs  to  the 
Church  of  God.  We  verv  well  know. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


loo,  that  there  are  means  of  growth 
and  advancement  in  the  priesthood, 
which  is  conferred  upon  men  in  an 
orderly  way.  First,  we  know  that 
upon  the  young  men  of  Israel,  those 
who  make  themselves  worthy,  is 
conferred  the  office  of  deacon, 
which  is  the  first  step  in  the  priest- 
hood. When  a  young  man  honors 
this  calling,  magnifies  the  office  and 
shows  himself  in  every  way  worthy, 
he  may  then  be  permitted  to  re- 
ceive the  office  of  teacher,  and  from 
teacher  to  priest ;  and  usually  when 
he  has  received  and  magnified  the 
office  of  a  priest  he  will  have  reach- 
ed his  majority.  He  is  then  ready, 
through  his  experience,  and  by  his 
faithfulness  in  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood, to  receive  the  High  Priest- 
hood. The  office  of  elder  is  con- 
ferred upon  him,  then  the  office  of 
seventy,  and  then  the  great  and 
glorious  office  of  a  high  priest. 

Thus,  in  time,  every  young  man 
in  Israel,  as  he  advances  in  life,  has 
the  opportunity  to  receive  a  fulness 
of  the  priesthood.  Such  is  truly  the 
case,  my  brethren  and  sisters — and 
I  say  sisters,  because  I  take  it  that 
the  sisters  of  the  Church  are  equally 
interested  with  the  brethren,  in  the 
priesthood,  for  they  are  to  receive 
their  blessings  and  exaltation  and 
a^lory  through  the  priesthood  held 
by  their  fathers  and  husbands.  God 
has  so  ordained  it.  Therefore,  as  a 
Church,  we  are  interested  in  this 
vital  subject. 

Now,  I  don't  know  whether  we 
fully  realize  and  have  entered  into 
the  spirit  of  the  priesthood.  I  do 
not  know  whether,  in  mortality,  we 
can  fully  comprehend  it,  but  this  I 
do  know,  that  it  is  a  great  and  glo- 
rious doctrine.  Some  further  lisfht, 
I  mav  say  great  light,  is  thrown 
upon  this  important  subiect  in  one 
of  the  revelations  of  God  to  his 


prophet,  and  mark  you,  some  great 
and  glorious  truths  have  come  to  us 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
truths  that  were  entirely  unknown 
to  the  world  in  our  time,  but  they 
have  come  to  us  and  we  are  familiar 
with  them.  I  tell  you  it  is  good  to 
be  reminded  of  these  things.  I  re- 
fer to  section  84  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  beginning  with  the 
thirty-third  verse.  I  invite  your 
close  attention  to  these  words.  I 
would  not  attempt  to  repeat  them, 
but  I  will  read  them  carefully  from 
the  text: 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining these  two  Prieshoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying 
their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the 
Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  then- 
bodies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses 
and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abra- 
ham, and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and 
the  elect  of  God; 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood  receivefh  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father, 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him; 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
Priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive 
the  Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  mv  Father,  which  he  can- 
not break,  neither  can  it  be  moved: 

"But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant, 
after  he  hath  received  it,  and  alto- 
gether turneth  therefrom,  shall  not 
have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world 
nor  in  the  world  to  come." 

You  get  some  P'ea,  by  brethren 
and  sisters,  from  this,  how  very  im- 
portant, how  extremely  sacred  is 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  which  is  noth- 
ing more  nor  less  than  divine  au- 
thority committed  unto  man,  and 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


29 


in  the  foregoing  declaration  is 
shown  the  absolute  impartiality  of 
our  Father  in  heaven,  for  he  says : 
"Whoso,"  (meaning  any  man  and 
every  man),  "is  faithful  unto  the 
obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  mag- 
nifying their  calling,"  will  enter  into 
the  possession  of  all  things,  for  he 
will  become  a  joint  heir  with  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Lord,  in  such  possession. 
Now,  I  ask  you,  what  more  could  a 
faithful  high  priest  receive  than  the 
promise  of  this  blessing?  Could  he 
receive  any  more  if  he  were  an 
apostle  ?  Could  he  receive  any  more 
if  he  were  a  counselor  in  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church?  Could  he  re- 
ceive anything  more  if  he  were  the 
President  of  the  Church,  than  a 
promise  which  gives  to  him  a  joint 
heirship  in  all  things  ?  No,  he  could 
not.  And  so  it  is  with  the  faithful 
seventy,  and  so  with  the  faithful 
elr'er  in  the  Church. 

There  is  no  need  for  envy.  There 
is  no  need  for  overweening  ambi- 
tion. There  is  no  need  to  reach  out 
and  try  to  grasp  that  to  which  we 
are  not  entitled.  The  essential 
thing  is  that  every  man  should  see 
to  it,  that  he  obtains  the  High 
Priesthood.  If  he  advances  no 
further  than  the  office  of  an  elder 
but  i.s  faithful  in  the  magnifying  of 
his  calling,  he  will  enter  into  his 
glory  and  exaltation  and  will  re- 
ceive the  fulness  of  which  the  rec- 
ord speaks. 

And  does  this  not  show  clearly, 
beautifully,  that  God  indeed  is  no 
respecter  of  persons?  And  as  we 
heard  in  the  prayer  that  was  offered 
this  afternoon,  God  has  made  us 
eatial.  Oh,  I  delight  in  this  prin- 
ciple of  enualitv  in  the  Church, 
which  is  invariably  determined  by 
the  principle  of  faithfulness,  of 
worthiness.    Nothing  will  be  with- 


held from  the  man  who  is  worthy 

and  no  blessing  will  be  withheld 
from  the  woman  who  is  faithful 
and  true. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  call 
your  attention  to  the  fact — and  I 
think  it  is  in  harmony  with  the  text 
and  with  what  I  have  said — that  we 
have  in  the  Church  today  a  great 
army  of  priesthood:  11,835  high 
priests;  10,497  seventies;  30,017 
elders;  9,387  priests;  11,429  teach- 
ers; 23,623  deacons,  making  a  total 
of  96,788  who  bear  the  authority  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood. 

Thus  we  see  how  this  divine  au- 
thority is  distributed  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  This  responsi- 
bility reaches  down  to  every  faith- 
ful man.  He  is  expected,  he  is  re- 
quired to  carry  responsibility,  and 
to  exercise  in  some  degree  divine 
authority.  It  does  not  all  rest  upon 
the  President  of  the  Church,  nor 
does  it  rest  wholly  upon  the  First 
Presidency.  It  does  not  rest  alto- 
gether upon  the  twelve  apostles, 
or  the  general  authorities.  It  rests 
down  upon  the  Church  of  Christ 
throughout  all  the  stakes.  Every- 
where you  will  meet  this  divine  au- 
thority. I  will  tell  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  wherever  you  do  meet  it 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  or  wards  of 
Zion,  or  in  the  branches  of  the 
Church,  it  would  be  well  for  you  to 
honor  that  authority,  and  not  seek 
to  override  it,  or  go  above  it  or  be- 
yond it  unnecessarily.  Let  every 
man  respect  the  authority  of  those 
who  preside  over  him,  no  matter 
where  he  is,  because  it  is  connected 
with  this  great  and  glorious  priest- 
hood of  which  I  have  spoken. 

Let  me  remind  you  for  a  moment 
of  the  language  of  the  revelation, 
which  says  that  whoso  succeeds  in 
attaining  to  these  two  priesthoods 
and  is  faithful  in  magnifying  his 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


calling,  will  receive  the  blessing.  In 
order  that  the  men  of  the  priesthood 
might  become  worthy  of  it,  and 
worthy  of  the  blessing  and  the  ex- 
altation that  follow,  it  has  pleased 
the  Lord  to  inspire  his  servants  of 
the  First  Presidency  to  appoint  a 
committee  to  arrange  courses  of 
study  for  the  priesthood.  The  com- 
mittee is  composed  of  four  members 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  three 
members  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
two  presidents  of  stakes,  and  five 
others.  These  brethren  have  been 
laboring  in  this  line  for  about  nine 
years.  They  have  sought  with  due 
diligence,  from  time  to  time,  to  pre- 
pare manuals,  or  outlines,  for  the 
study  of  the  priesthood,  to  be  used 
by  this  great  body  of  men,  nearly 
one  hundred  thousand,  that  they 
might  be  more  fully  instructed  in 
their  duty,  and  in  the  glorious  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel.  I  feel  that  this 
is  and  has  been  a  very  great  respon- 
sibility resting  upon  the  committee. 

To  give  you  some  idea  as  to  the 
manuals  that  have  been  prepared,  I 
will  just  name  a  few :  For  the  High 
Priesthood,  manuals  have  been  pre- 
pared on  "Church  Organization,'' 
"Divine  Authority  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,"  "History  of  the  Gospel," 
"Duties  and  Principles  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,"  "Princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel,"  "Atonement," 
"Articles  of  Faith."  "First  and  Sec- 
ond volumes  of  Church  History," 
"Divine  Imminence,"  "Gospel 
Themes,"  "Rational  Theology,"  and 
"Jesus  the  Christ."  And  for  the 
Leser  Priesthood  :  "Restoration  of 
the  Gospel,"  "Church  History," 
"Old  Testament  History,"  "Divine 
Mission  of  the  Savior,"  "The  Bool; 
of  Mormon,"  "First  Steps  in 
Church  Government,"  "The  Apos- 
tolic Age,"  "The  Latter-dav  Proph- 


et," "What  the  Priest  should  Know 
and  Do,"  "Experiences  from  the 
Lives  of  early  Church  Leaders  and 
Members,"  and  "Jesus  the  Christ." 

I  submit  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  whether  or  not  these  are  im- 
portant subjects  worthy  of  the  at- 
tention and  study  of  the  priesthood. 
That  is  the  purpose  of  it,  and  I 
point  out  to  you  that  the  oppor- 
tunity is  open  to  every  man  in  this 
Church  to  secure  the  benefit  of  these 
courses  of  study.  He  is  invited  by 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  into 
these  classes,  urged  to  go  into  them 
and  to  study  and  master  these  sub- 
jects, thereby  fitting  and  qualifying 
him,  so  far  as  possible,  under  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  magnify  the 
priesthood.  Yet  out  of  this  vast 
army  of  priesthood,  while  there  are 
many  faithful,  active  men,  diligent 
and  studious,  there  are  also  others 
who  are  careless  and  indifferent, 
and  who  neglect  the  opportunity 
that  is  before  them ;  but,  mark  you, 
biethren  and  sisters,  any  man  who 
neglects  his  privileges  and  oppor- 
tunities, is  the  loser.  He  is  not  ad- 
vancing, he  is  not  growing  in  faith 
and  knowledge  and  good  works  as 
he  should  do. 

We  urge  the  brethren  of  the 
priesthood  to  give  this  subject  their 
careful,  thoughtful  and  mast 
prayerful  attention.  We  ask  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  name  of 
the  authorities  of  the  Church,  who 
have  sanctioned  the  movement,  to 
take  up  this  work  and  persuade 
those  who  are  careless  and  indif- 
ferent to  be  a  little  more  faithful 
and  studious  than  heretofore. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  in  con- 
clusion, that  this  is  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God.  I  know  it  is — I 
have  always  known  it.  I  testify  to 
you  that  our  leaders,  the  Prophets 
— and  it  is  a  glorious  galaxy  of  men 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


31 


— six  great  leaders  who  have  pre- 
sided over  the  Church  up  to  this  day 
— I  testify  to  you  that  I  do  positive- 
ly know  that  they  are  true  proph- 
ets of  God,  men  of  power,  men  of 
authority,  men  of  counsel;  and  we 
would  do  well  to  give  heed  to  their 
words  and  to  follow  their  lead. 
There  is  safety  in  it.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of 
God,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  he  atoned  for  the  sins  of  the 
world  upon  Mount  Calvary.  This 
is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PATRIARCH  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  for  this  privilege  of 
again  raising  my  voice  in  the  midst 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  I  can 
testify  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  us 
during  the  last  six  months.  He  has 
blessed  both  the  authorities  and  the 
members  of  the  Church,  and  I  for 
one  feel  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
the  blessings  that  have  come  to  us ; 
personally,  for  those  that  have  come 
to  me.  I  am  very  grateful  to  be 
here  today,  to  hear  the  testimonies 
and  the  instructions  that  have  been 
given  in  this  conference,  and  I  fully 
indorse  them.  My  heart  goes  out 
in  love  and  gratitude  to  our  Presi- 
dent. My  heart  also  goes  out  to 
him  in  prayer  and  in  blessing,  that 
he  may  live  yet  a  goodly  number  of 
years  with  us,  to  bless  us,  and  to 
teach  us,  and  to  guide  us  in  the 
ways  of  the  Lord.  I  know  through 
my  experience  in  the  Church,  and 
visiting  among  the  people,  that  he 
has  the  prayers  of  the  people,  both 
young  and  old,  and  I  join  with  them 
in  praying  for  his  life  and  mission, 
that  he  may  live  to  lead  and  bless 


us  yet  a  goodly  number  of  years, 
and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  God  all 
his  days. 

When  President  Penrose  was 
speaking  concerning  the  mothers 
having  to  part  with  their  dear  boys, 
who  have  gone  into  the  army,  or 
who  are  preparing  to  go,  a  little 
passage  of  modern  scripture,  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  came  to 
my  mind,  and  if  I  may  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  as  it  has  dictated 
what  has  already  been  said  in  this 
conference,  I  should  like  to  remind 
the  good  mothers  of  this  passage 
for  their  comfort.  It  is  found  in 
the  101st  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  commencing  at  the 
77th  verse. 

"According  to  the  laws  and  con- 
stitution of  the  people  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and 
should  be  maintained  for  the  rights 
and  protection  of  all  flesh,  accord- 
ing to  just  and  holy  principles, 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doc- 
trine and  principles  pertaining  to 
futurity,  according  to  the  moral 
agency  which  I  have  given  unto 
them,  that  every  man  may  be  ac- 
countable for  his  own  sins  in  the 
day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore  it  is  not  right  that 
any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one 
to  another. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  es- 
tablished the  constitution  of  this 
land,  by  the  hands  of  wise  men 
whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very 
purpose,  and  redeemed  the  land  by 
the  shedding  of  blood." 

Now,  my  object  in  reading  this 
is  by  way  of  comfort  to  us  as  a  peo- 
ple, and  particularly  to  the  fathers 
and  mothers  of  the  boys  and  men 
who  may  engage  or  who  may  go  to 
prepare  to  engage  in  this  great  con- 
flict.  T  look  upon  it  as  being  a  mis- 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sion  to  every  man  who  goes  in  hu- 
mility and  in  faith,  trusting  in  the 
living  God— the  God  who  has  es- 
tablished this  land  and  this  govern- 
ment; that  it  is  our  duty  to  work 
out  the  mission  given  us,  that  the 
time  may  come  when  no  one  shall 
be  in  bondage  one  to  another,  and 
that  liberty  and  freedom  shall  come 
to  all  flesh.  Now,  I  don't  know, 
when  this  is  going  to  come,  nor  how 
long  it  is  going  to  take,  but  it  ap- 
peals to  me,  that  as  a  people,  and  es- 
pecially those  who  are  called  to  en- 
gage in  this  conflict,  who  go  out 
under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  many  of  them  bearing  the 
holy  Priesthood  of  which  the  breth- 
ren have  spoken,  servants  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  our  God,  we 
have  a  most  important  mission  to 
perform.  God  has  given  us  this 
mission  and  commissioned  us  with 
divine  authority  to  perform  it.  I 
say,  many  of  our  boys  and  men  are 
going  out  with  this  authority,  and 
it  is  my  testimony,  my  brethren 
and  .sisters,  that  if  these  men 
who  go  in  this  cause  thus  em- 
powered, that  if  they  go  in  the  spirit 
of  faith  and  in  the  spirit  of  humil- 
ity, and  will  keep  themselves  in 
touch  with  the  promptings  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  which  it  is  their  right 
to  enjoy,  that  they  will  be  a  force 
and  a  power  for  good  in  the  earth, 
for  the  working  out  of  the  purposes 
of  God,  to  hasten  the  time,  if  not 
to  bring  it  about,  when  freedom 
and  liberty  shall  come  to  all  flesh, 
-when  men  shall  not  be  in  bondage 
one  to  another.  It  is  my  testimony 
that  this  is  one  of  the  purposes  for 
which  we  as  a  people  are  called  to 
engage  in  this  great  conflict.  So  I 
say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters,  es- 
pecially to  the  good  mothers  of 
these  boys,  let  us  continue  to  pray 


for  them,  to  sustain  them,  that  they 
may  be  pure  and  clean  before  the 
Lord,  and  magnify  that  priesthood 
which  has  been  given  them,  that 
God  may  be  enabled  to  work  about 
his  purposes  and .  to  bring  them  to 
pass  through  his  honored  servants, 
those  whom  he  has  entrusted  with 
his  holy  priesthood.  I  believe  with 
all  my  heart  that  these  men  who 
are  entrusted  with  this  great  power 
and  authority  in,  the  earth  will  have 
influence  for  good  wherever  they 
are  called  to  go,  whether  it  be  in  the 
training  camps  or  whether  it  be  in 
the  very  battles  of  the  world. 
Among  these  boys  and  men  are  the 
choice  sons  of  Israel ;  many  of  them 
— I  suppose  the  majority  of  them — 
are  clean  and  pure  and  virtuous ; 
and  they  are  the  best  of  those 
among  us,  because  the  Government 
will  not  have  those  who  are  not  the 
best.  They  must  be  physically  pre- 
pared, perfect  if  possible,  and  so 
they  are  the  very  best  of  our  young 
men  who  are  entering  this  conflict, 
and  we  look  to  them  for  something 
to  be  done  by  way  of  bringing  about 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  We  look 
to  them  to  perform  a  great  mission. 
Therefore  let  us  pray  for  them,  let 
us  pray  that  the  Lord  will  be  with 
them  and  preserve  them  from  the 
evils  and  wickedness,  the  sins,  and 
the  vices  of  the  world,  that  they 
may  return,  if  it  be  possible,  clean 
and  pure,  to  go  on  and  magnify 
their  priesthood  and  further  bring 
about  the  purposes  of  the  Lord. 

My  prayers  and  blessings  go 
with  our  boys.  God  bless  them  and 
bless  their  mothers  and  fathers,  and 
bless  us  all,  that  we  may  each  learn 
our  part  in  life,  fulfill  our  missions 
and  live  worthy  lives  before  the 
Lord.  I  am  quite  sure  that  his 
blessings  have  attended  us  through- 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 


33 


out  this  land.  In  going  through  the 
country  from  time  to  time  and 
from  year  to  year  I  have  never 
seen  a  more  bounteous  harvest,  bet- 
ter grain,  better  fruit,  or  more  of 
it.  Let  us  return  our  gratitude  to 
the  Lord.  We  do  not  know  how 
long  these  good  things  are  going 
to  last,  but  we  hope  that  we  will 
never  lack  nor  suffer  for  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
rejoice  in  a  testimony  of  the  gospel. 
T  know  that  we  have  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  that  it  is  the  true 
plan  of  human  redemption  and  ex- 
altation. I  know  that  the  Lord 
lives,  and  that  he  will  hear  and  an- 
swer our  prayers,  that  he  will  com- 
fort and  sustain  us  in  performing 
our  duties,  as  long  as  we  are  hum- 
ble and  prayerful  and  will  keep 
ourselves  in  harmony  with  his 
work,  and  as  President  Penrose  has 
said,  "Follow  our  leader." 

Among  the  thousands  of  men 
who  hold  the  priesthood  about 
which  Brother  Clawson  has  been 
speaking,  are  about  200  men  who 
hold  the  office  of  Patriarch,  and  I 
commend  the  service  of  these 
brethren  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  very  gratified  to  say  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there 
seems  to  be,  during  the  last  year, 
a  greater  desire  on  the  part  of  the 
men  or  brethren  to  receive  their 
blessings.  Before  the  war  the 
great  majority  of  those  who  were 
seeking  their  blessings  from  the 
Lord,  at  the  hands  of  the  patri- 
archs,   were   the    sisters    of  the 


Church;  but  during  the  last  few 
months  the  men  have  been  called  to 
humble  themselves  and  to  think 
more  seriously  concerning  the  fu- 
ture and  they  too  are  seeking  their 
blessings  at  the  hands  of  the  priest- 
hood. I  think  there  is  a  provi- 
dence in  this,  and  I  trust  that  the 
brethren  as  well  as  the  sisters  will 
continue  to  seek  and  obtain  their 
blessings  at  the  hands  of  the  pa- 
triarchs of  the  Church,  and  honor 
the  Priesthood  in  so  doing,  and 
they  will  receive  their  blessings 
from  the  Lord  at  the  hands  of  his 
servants. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
bless  you  all.  My  heart  goes  out  in 
blessing  to  all  Israel,  to  the  faithful 
of  the  house  of  Israel  wherever 
they  are  found,  at  home  or  abroad, 
and  I  pray  that  God  will  be  with 
them  all  according  to  their  right- 
eous needs,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith  gave  out 
notice  of  a  public  meeting  in  the 
Tabernacle  this  evening  at  8:15 
o'clock,  at  which  Hon.  Franklin  K. 
Lane,  Secretary  of  the  Interior, 
would  speak  and  be  the  guest  of 
honor,  in  behalf  of  the  National 
Council  of  Defense. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn  :  "Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah." 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sat- 
urday morning  at  10  o'clock. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  of  the  Bear 
Lake  stake. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday,  Oc- 
tober 6,  1917,  10  a.  m. 

The  assembly  was  called  to  order 
by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  President  James  Wotherspoon, 
of  the  North  Weber  stake  of  Zion. 

The  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou 
great  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by  the 
choir  and  congregation. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Wisdom  consists  not  only  in  know- 
ing, but  also  in  doing— Where  re- 
pentance is  truly  made  former  sins 
and  wickedness  are  blotted  out — 
Our  prayer  should  be  for  under- 
standing hearts  and  wisdom  to  obey 
— Ancient  and  modern  Israel  alike 
in  some  respects — The  exodus  of 
each  compared — Obedience  to  the 
servants  of  God  and  a  study  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures  make  for  wisdom 
— Men  of  authority  are  among  us 
who  teach  us  to  be  wise  unto  eternal 
life — May  we  have  understanding 
hearts  to  heed  their  counsel  and  so 
prove  wise. 

I  shall  read  a  passage  from  the 
scriptures : 

"Praise  ye  the  Lord.  I  will  praise 
the  Lord  with  my  whole  heart,  in  the 
assembly  of  the  upright  and  in  the 
congregation. 

"The  words  of  the  Lord  are  great, 
sought  out  of  all  them  that  have 
pleasure  therein. 

"His  work  is  honorable  and  glo- 
rious; and  his  righteousness  endureth 
forever. 

"He     hath     made     his  wonderful 


works  to  be  remembered;  the  Lord 
is  gracious  and  full  of  compassion. 

"He  hath  given  meat  unto  them 
that  fear  him;  he  will  ever  be  mindful 
of  his  covenant. 

"He  hath  showed  his  people  the 
power  of  his  works,  that  he  may  give 
them  the  heritage  of  the  heathen. 

"The  works  of  his  hands  are  verity 
and  judgment;  all  his  commandments 
are  sure. 

"They  stand  fast  forever  and  ever, 
and  are  done  in  truth  and  upright- 
ness. 

"He  sent  redemption  unto  his  peo- 
ple; he  hath  commanded  his  cove- 
nant forever;  holy  and  reverend  is  his 
name. 

"The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  be- 
ginning of  wisdom;  a  good  under- 
standing have  all  they  that  do  his 
commandments;  his  praise  endureth 
forever." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  high- 
ly favored  in  that  once  more  they 
have  had  an  opportunity  to  hear  his 
voice  as  uttered  by  the  mouths  of 
his  anointed  servants.  We  have  lis- 
tened to  the  testimony  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  and  from  his 
lips  have  again  received  admoni- 
tion and  have  heard  the  gospel  prin- 
ciples proclaimed.  We  have  heard 
the  testimony  concerning  the  di- 
vinity of  the  great  redeeming  mis- 
sion of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
of  the  divine  appointment  and  call- 
ing of  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet, 
and  of  President  Young,  and  the 
successors  in  the  presidency  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
ray  Saints.  These  testimonies  and 
doctrines  were  declared  unto  us  in 
power  and  in  the  demonstration  of 
the  Holy  Spirit.     There  was  not 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


35 


lurking  therein  even  a  shadow  of 
doubt  or  darkness,  but  they  came 
to  us  with  all  the  brilliance  of  a 
fire  struck  from  the  very  chief  cor- 
ner-stone of  the  foundation  upon 
which  this  great  latter-day  work  is 
built. 

Now,  "the  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the 
beginning  of  wisdom,  a  good  under- 
standing have  all  they  that  do  his 
commandments."  The  Latter-day 
Saints  were  declared  yesterday  to 
be  an  intelligent  people.  They  are 
an  intelligent  people.  They  ought 
to  be  as  wise  as  they  are  intelligent, 
but  I  fear  that  in  wisdom  we  some- 
times fall  short.  A  wise  people  are 
a  people  who  will  do  what  they 
know  to  be  right.  The  Lord  has  de- 
clared to  us  that  which  is  right,  he 
has  given  us  intelligence  to  under- 
stand the  difference  between  right 
and  wrong,  to  distinguish  between 
good  and  evil,  between  the  true  and 
the  false,  so  that  there  can  be  no 
excuse  really  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints  being  unwise.  But  if  the 
Lord  has  given  us  intelligence  to 
understand  the  truth,  and  to  know 
all  his  commandments  and  we  do 
not  keep  his  commandments,  then 
we  are  not  wise.  There  are  many 
intelligent  people  in  the  world 
who  are  exceedingly  foolish. 
There  are  many  people  who  are 
termed  educated,  who  are  lack- 
ing in  wisdom,  and  there  are 
countless  multitudes  of  men  and 
women  in  our  country,  and  in 
other  Christian  countries,  who 
know  to  do  right,  and  yet  who 
do  not  do  it,  and  consequently 
to  them  it  is  sin.  The  Lord  has  de- 
clared, through  the  prophet  Ezek- 
iel,  something  to  this  effect,  that 
the  righteousness  of  the  righteous 
will  be  forgotten  if  the  righteous 
turn  into  wickedness,  and  the  wick- 
edness of  the  wicked  will  be  no 


more  remembered  jf  the  wicked 
turn  from  their  wickedness  unto 
righteousness. 

That  great  man  Solomon  offered 
a  prayer  unto  the  Lord  which  was 
eminently  wise,  and  it  was  an- 
swered upon  his  head  with  a  very 
great  blessing.  I  should  like  to  read 
a  few  words  of  it : 

"In  Gideon  the  Lord  appeared  to 
Solomon  in  a  dream  by  night;  and 
God  said,  Ask  what  I  shall  give  thee. 

"And  Solomon  said,  Thou  hast 
showed  unto  thy  servant  David,  my 
father,  great  mercy,  according  as  he 
walked  before  thee  in  truth,  and  in 
righteousness,  and  in  uprightness  of 
heart  with  thee;  and  thou  hast  kept 
for  him  this  great  kindness,  that  thou 
hast  given  him  a  son  to  sit  on  his 
throne,  as  it  is  this  day. 

"And  now,  O  Lord  my  God,  thou 
hast  made  thy  servant  king  instead  of 
David  my  father;  and  I  am  but  a  little 
child;  I  know  not  how  to  go  out  or 
come  in. 

"And  thy  servant  is  in  the  midst  of 
thy  people  which  thou  hast  chosen,  a 
great  people,  that  cannot  be  numbered 
nor.  counted  for  multitude. 

"Give  therefore  thy  servant  an  un- 
derstanding heart  to  judge  thy  people, 
that  I  may  discern  between  good  and 
bad;  for  who  is  able  to  judge  this  thy 
so  great  a  people? 

"And  the  speech  pleased  the  Lord, 
that  Solomon  had  asked  this  thing. 

"And  God  said  unto  him,  Because 
thou  hast  asked  this  thing,  and  hast 
not  asked  for  thyself  long  life;  neither 
hast  asked  riches  for  thyself,  nor  hast 
asked  the  life  of  thine  enemies;  but 
hast  asked  for  thyself  understanding 
to  discern  judgment; 

"Behold,  I  have  done  according  to 
thy  words;  lo,  I  have  given  thee  a 
wise  and  an  understanding  heart;  so 
that  there  was  none  like  thee  before 
thee,  neither  after  thee  shall  any  arise 
like  unto  thee. 

"And  I  have  also  given  thee  that 
which  thou  hast  not  asked,  both  riches 
and  honor;  so  that  there  shall  not  be 
any  among  the  kings  like  unto  thee 
all  thy  days." 

That  should  be  the  prayer  that  all 
Latter-day  Saints  should  frequently 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


offer  unto  the  Lord,  that  the  Lord 
should  give  unto  them  understand- 
ing hearts,  that  they  might  under- 
stand the  truth,  and  that  they  might 
have  the  wisdom  to  obey  the  truth. 

Hear  another  passage  of  scrip- 
ture. It  contains  the  words  of  him 
who  stood  at  the  head  of  Israel  in 
olden  times,  who  was  the  mouth- 
piece of  God,  who  led  Israel  out  of 
their  bondage  in  Egypt  through  the 
wilderness,  and  to  the  borders  of 
the  promised  land.  This  passage, 
recorded  in  the  Old  Testament,  was 
given  to  the  people  of  Israel  by  the 
mouth  of  Moses  the  prophet.  He 
was  not  permitted  to  enter  into  the 
Promised  Land,  but  gave  unto  his 
people  this  admonition.  The  history 
of  former-day  Israel  and  latter-day 
Israel  is  similar  at  many  points,  and 
very  dissimilar  at  others.  The 
former-day  Israel  were  not  driven 
out  of  Egypt.  It  was  the  determina- 
tion of  the  king  of  Egypt  to  retain 
the  children  of  Israel,  that  they 
might  be  his  servants  and  his  slaves, 
and  it  was  with  great  pleading  and 
repeated  pouring  out  of  plagues 
upon  Egypt  that  the  Lord  induced 
the  king  to  let  them  depart.  Israel, 
too,  left  reluctantly,  and  during 
their  journey  towards  the  promised 
land  frequently  complained  and 
longed  to  return  to  the  flesh  pots  of 
Egypt. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  were  not 
thus  favored  by  the  people  of  our 
own  country.  We  were  not  wanted 
among  them.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
were  despised  and  hated,  and  were 
finally  driven  out  from  so-called  civ- 
ilization— driven  out  into  the  wil- 
derness, in  the  hope  that  there  they 
might  perish.  The  Lord  evidently 
knew  that  it  would  be  difficult  to 
persuade  his  people,  even  in  the 
midst  of  their  persecutions,  to  come 
out  into  a  desert,  to  an  unknown 


world.  Therefore  he  permitted 
them  to  be  driven  forth,  that  he 
might  make  of  them  what  he  has 
made  of  them,  and  determined  to 
make  of  them,  a  mighty  people  in 
this  greatest  Nation  in  the  world; 
and  these  words  that  Moses  spoke 
to  ancient  Israel  may  be  read  to 
modern  Israel.  They  are  just  as 
true  and  just  as  applicable,  if  we 
will  heed  the  admonitions  today, 
and  in  fact,  similar  admonitions 
and  cousels  are  frequently  given 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  our  day. 
Moses  said : 

"Now  therefore  hearken,  O  Israel, 
unto  the  statutes  and  unto  the  judg- 
ments, which  I  teach  you,  for  to  do 
them,  that  ye  may  live,  and  go  in  and 
possess  the  land  which  the  Lord  God 
of  your  fathers  giveth  you. 

"Ye  shall  not  add  unto  the  word 
which  I  command  you,  neither  shall 
ye  diminish  aught  from  it,  that  ye  may 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
your  God  which  I  command  you. 

"Your  eyes  have  seen  what  the  Lo,rd 
did  because  of  Baal-peor;  for  all  the 
men  that  followed  Baal-peor,  the  Lord 
thy  God  hath  destroyed  them  from 
among  you. 

"But  ye  that  did  cleave  unto  the 
Lord  your  God  are  alive  every  one  of 
you  this  day. 

"Behold,  I  have  taught  you  statutes 
and  judgments,  even  as  the  Lord  my 
God  commanded  me,  that  ye  should 
do  so  in  the  land  whither  ye  go  to 
possess  it. 

"Keep  therefore  and  do  them :  for 
this  is  your  wisdom  and  your  under- 
standing in  the  sight  of  the  nations, 
which  shall  hear  all  these  statutes, 
and  say,  Surely  this  great  nation  is  a 
wise  and  understanding  people. 

"For  what  nation  is  there  so  great, 
who  hath  God  so  nigh  unto  them,  as 
the  Lord  our  God  is  in  all  things  that 
we  call  upon  him  for? 

"And  what  nation  is  there  so  great, 
that  hath  statutes  and  judgments  so 
righteous  as  all  this  law,  which  I  set 
before  you  this  day? 

"Only  take  heed  to  thyself,  and  keep 
thy  soul  diligently,  lest  thou  forget 
the  things  which  thine  eyes  have  seen, 
and  lest  they  depart  from  thy  heart 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


37 


all  the  days  of  thy  life;  but  teach  them 
thy  sons,  and  thy  sons'  sons." 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  if  they 
will  look  over  the  history  of  the 
Church,  mav  ask  themselves  the 
question :  What  has  become  of  all 
those  who  remained  behind,  who 
refused  to  follow  God  and  his  ser- 
vants out  into  the  wilderness?  The 
answer  will  be :  They  are  dead  and 
gone,  lost ;  lost  to  the  faith,  lost  to 
the  love  of  the  truth,  and  their  chil- 
dren and  their  children's  children 
are  today  grown  up  in  ignorance, 
lacking  in  wisdom,  having  no  un- 
derstanding' concerning  the  work  of 
the  Lord  which  he  established 
through  the  Prophet  Toseph.  All 
those  who  followed  the  Lord  and 
his  servants  to  these  valleys,  and 
their  children  who  have  remained 
faithful  are  alive  this  day,  and  vou 
,see  the  Saints  grown  into  a  mighty 
people ;  and  those  who  were  faith- 
ful and  have  gone  bevond  the  veil, 
those  mentioned  by  President  Smith 
yesterday,  and  many  others,  verily 
thev  are  indeed  alive,  forevermore, 
and  their  children  and  their  chil- 
dren's children  are  still  in  our  midst. 
Those  who  have  been  faithful,  those 
who  are  wise,  those  who  sought  for 
and  received  from  God  understand- 
ing hearts,  are  here  today  to  reioice 
in  the  gospel  and  in  the  testimony 
thereof,  and  thev  are  willing  to  re- 
ceive and  be  led  by  the  word  of 
the  Lord. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  on  this  stand 
are  men  the  Lord  has  called  and 
anointed.  We,  I  said  in  the  be<rin- 
ninsr,  were  privileged  to  hear  the 
voice  of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  has 
declared  in  latter-dav  revelation, 
when  his  servant  sneaks  under  the 
power  and  inspiration  of  the  Ho1v 
Ghost,  his  words  then  become  the 
words  of  the  Lord,  they  are  the 


voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the  mind  of 
the  Lord,  and  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
and  as  such  we  receive  the  words 
that  are  given  to  us  by  those  whom 
the  Lord  has  called  to  preside  over 
us  and  to  speak  in  his  name. 

The  very  burden  of  the  message 
delivered  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
vesterday  by  the  President  of  the 
Church  was  obedience  to  the  prin- 
ciples and  the  commandments  of 
God;  that  we  should  be  wise  and 
have  understanding-  hearts,  and  hav- 
ing understanding,  demonstrate  our 
wisdom  in  our  obedience,  that  the 
whole  world  may  see  this  people 
and  recognize  that  there  is  no  other 
oeople  in  the  world  to  whom  the 
Lord  is  so  near,  and  that  no  other 
nation  so  great  as  that  of  which  the 
Latter-day  Saints  form  a  part.  The 
government  of  the  United  States  is 
a  nation  established  and  founded  by 
the  Lord.  Wise  men  were  raised 
up  by  the  Lord  and  inspired  to  lay 
the  foundations  of  this  government, 
and  to  give  to  the  people  correct 
doctrines  and  high  and  noble  prin- 
ciples, the  principles  of  liberty  and 
peace.  And  this  nation,  if  they  will 
hearken  unto  those  wise  men  and 
uphold  the  constitution  established 
bv  them,  and  obey  the  laws  that 
have  been  and  that  shall  be  enacted 
in  accord  with  the  constitution  by 
those  who  are  called  to  enact  laws 
for  our  government,  we  will  be  a 
wise  people,  we  will  be  a  people  with 
understanding  hearts,  and  all  other 
nations  will  be  compelled  to  sav  that 
God  is  here,  he  is  with  these  people 
and  with  this  nation,  to  bless  them 
and  to  make  of  them  the  saviors  of 
mankind. 

President  Lund  vesterdav  called 
attention  to  the  work  that  is  being 
done  by  the  historians  of  the 
Church.  I  gathered  this  great  les- 
son from  his  remarks,  that  as  the 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


result  of  the  Lord's  wisdom  and 
the  people's  obedience,  we  have  in 
the  Church  a  record,  a  history  of 
the  Church  in  latter-days  as  well  as 
former  days,  and  that  out  of  these 
books,  the  history  of  the  Church, 
the  holy  scriptures,  ancient  and 
modern,  may  be  found  the  way  of 
life  eternal,  and  they  are  better  than 
all  other  books  ;  and  that  we  .should 
seek  out  of  these  books  words  of 
wisdom  and  understanding.  Why, 
there  is  more  to  be  learned  in  five 
minutes  reading  in  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures, more  that  is  worthy  of  reten- 
tion in  the  memory,  more  that  will 
be  helpful  if  we  remember  and  obey 
them,  than  we  can  find  in  reading 
all  of  the  six  best  sellers  in  every 
month  in  the  year.  Here  is  the  word 
of  God,  herein  is  the  word  of  life, 
herein  is  the  word  of  wisdom,  here- 
in we  may  get  understanding,  and 
learn  to  discern  good  and  evil,  and 
gather  the  courage  and  the  faith  to 
do  that  which  is  right,  and  to  reject 
that  which  is  evil. 

But  in  addition  to  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures and  sacred  and  inspired  rec- 
ords, and  even  of  greater  import- 
ance to  the  Latter-dav  Saints,  is  the 
fact  that  the  anointed  living  oracles 
of  God  are  in  our  presence,  as  so 
forceably  set  forth  by  President 
Penrose  yesterday.  Through  them 
the  Lord  speaks,  counsels  and  com- 
mands this  people  daily.  If  we  re- 
ceive and  obey  their  instructions  we 
will  prove  that  we  are  wise  and  of 
good  understanding. 

Now,  I  should  like  to  conclude 
my  remarks,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, with  another  passage  of  scrip- 
ture, a  passage  of  scripture  that  was 
given  during  the  ministry  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  his 
words.  He  was  the  wisest  of  all. 
even  wiser  than  Solomon,  because 
he  retained  his  wisdom  and  his  un- 


derstanding even  to  the  end,  and 
did  not  depart  in  any  measure  or 
degree  from  righteousness,  and  I 
should  like,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  impress  this  passage  upon 
your  mind.s.  It  is  a  familiar  one, 
all  are  acquainted  with  it,  but  in 
the  words  of  a  great  poet,  I  fear 
that  it  is  a  passage  more  "honored 
in  the  breach  than  the  observance :" 

"Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall 
know  them. 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day, 
Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied 
in  thy  name?  And  in  thy  .name  have 
cast  out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done 
many  wonderful  works? 

"And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them, 
I  never  knew  you;  depart  from  me, 
ye  that  work  iniquity. 

"Therefore  whosoever  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I 
will  liken  him  unto  a  wise  man,  which 
built  his  house  upon  a  rock: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not, 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not. 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house,  and  it  fell :  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus 
had  ended  these  sayings,  the  people 
were  astonished  at  his  doctrine: 

"For  he  taught  them  as  one  having 
authority,  and  not  as  the  scribes." 

I  testify  that  here  in  this  confer- 
ence yesterday,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  heard  men  who  spoke  not  as 
scribes  and  Pharisees,  but  as  men 
having  authority  from  the  living 
God  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  to 
bear  witness  of  the  ministry  and 
mission  and  redeeming  power  of 
his  Only  Begotten  Son.   I  bear  wit- 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


39 


ness  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  heed  their  admonitions  and  will 
do  the  Lord's  statutes  and  judg- 
ments, and  will  keep  his  command- 
ments, that  they  will  be  wise  even 
unto  life  eternal,  they  will  have  un- 
derstanding hearts,  hearts  to  see 
and  perceive  and  to  know  the  truth, 
and  by  prayer  and  patience  and  hu- 
mility before  God  they  will  be  given 
the  power  to  do  that  which  is  right 
in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  and  to  be 
worthy  of  salvation  in  the  kingdom 
•of  God. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  no  man 
can  find  forgiveness  for  one  sin  be- 
cause he  is  righteous  in  some  other 
direction.  In  other  words,  the  pay- 
ment of  tithing  will  never  com- 
pensate for  the  desecration  of  the 
Sabbath  day.  The  faithful  keeping 
of  the  Sabbath  day  will  never  make 
amends  for  the  breaking  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  The  refraining 
from  murder,  and  adultery,  will 
not  satisfy  the  law  which  forbids 
bearing  false  witness  against  neigh- 
bors, or  coveting  their  possessions. 
And  the  doing  of  good  to  men  will 
never  blot  out  the  sin  of  blasphem- 
ing the  name  of  the  living  God.  We 
must  keep  the  commandments,  all 
of  them,  every  one  of  them,  every 
day  of  our  lives,  and  then  we  will 
prove  ourselves  wise  and  of  under- 
standing hearts. 

May  the  Lord  give  this  people 
wisdom  in  addition  to  their  intelli- 
gence ;  may  we  have  understanding, 
and  may  we  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  as  we  know  we 
ought  to  keep  them,  and  never 
prove  recreant.  God  bless  his  ser- 
vants, the  Presidency,  and  those 
who  are  called  to  preside  in  Israel, 
the  general  authorities,  the  stake 
authorities,  the  ward  authorities, 
those  who  preside  over  the  auxiliary 
organizations,  over  the  branches  of 


the  Church,  and  over  the  mission 
fields.  God  bless  Israel,  and  God 
bless  this  country  upon  which  he 
has  gathered  Israel.  God  bless  those 
who  stand  at  the  head  of  the  gov- 
ernment, and  make  them,  even  the 
President  and  his  Cabinet  and  the 
Congress  and  the  Supreme  Court, 
wise  like  unto  those  wise  men 
whom  the  Lord  raised  up  in  the 
beginning  of  our  national  govern- 
ment, to  lay  its  foundations,  that 
these  men  may  adhere  to  that  fun- 
damental law  and  enact  only  wise 
and  righteous  laws  for  the  progress 
and  advancement  of  this  great  land 
of  Zion ;  and  may  the  children  of 
Israel  be  indeed  Zion,  the  pure  in 
heart,  to  teach  all  the  world  how 
to  come  to  the  Lord,  how  to  learn 
wisdom,  how  to  have  and  retain 
understanding  hearts,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

David  Reese  and  Anthon  C.  Lund 
sang  a  duet:  "Let  the  lower  lights 
be  burning." 

ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 

Are  we  taking  advantage  of  our  op- 
portunities to  worship? — Benefits 
derived  from  searching  the  Holy 
Bible  and  listening  to  the  teachings 
of  the  servants  of  the  Lord — Ad- 
vantages of  familiarity  with  modem 
scriptures — Our  Father's  loving  ad- 
vice in  the  Preface  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  his  admonitions 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon — [t  is  need- 
ful to  read  the  scriptures  carefully 
and  prayerfully — Answer  to  the 
question:  When  shall  permanent 
peace  come? — In  the  present  con- 
flict this  Church  sustains  the  legal 
acts  of  the  constituted  authorities  of 
the  Nation — A  prayer  for  repent- 
ance from  wickedness,  that  peace  so 
much  desired  may  come. 

My  mind  has  been  illumined  dur- 
ing this  conference,  and  my  heart 
has  been  made  to  rejoice  by  the  ex- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cellent  instruction  to  which  we  have 
listened.  The  splendid  attendance 
of  the  members  of  the  Church  at 
this  general  conference  has  inspired 
in  me  an  appreciation  of  the  oppor- 
tunity given  to  meet  our  brethren 
and  sisters  on  such  occasions. 

This  morning  I  met  a  brother  on 
the  street  who  introduced  himself 
to  me.  I  recognized  his  face,  but  I 
could  not  call  his  name,  and  I  did 
not  know  whence  he  came,  until  he 
informed  me  that  I  had  met  him 
at  Wilmington,  North  Carolina,  and 
he  had  come  all  the  way  with  his 
wife  and  children,  that  he  might  be 
with  the  Saints  in  this  worshiping 
assembly.  While  sitting  here  pon- 
dering over  the  effect  that  that 
might  have  upon  him  and  his  fam- 
ilv,  I  asked  myself  the  question : 
Have  I  been  careful  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  my  opportunity  and 
bring  my  wife  and  children  into  this 
splendid  gathering,  to  enjoy  the 
teachings  of  the  servants  of  God? 
And  the  answer  came  back  to  me  in 
this  way :  If  I  have  not,  I  have  lost 
for  them  a  blessing,  and  likewise 
for  myself,  but  the  man  who  crossed 
the  continent,  came  all  the  way 
from  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  paying 
his  expenses  and  taking  that  long- 
ride,  will  certainlv  be  rewarded  by 
the  Lord,  by  an  increase  of 'faith, 
and  so  will  his  family.  In  this,  as 
in  all  other  cases,  the  blessings  of 
God  are  predicated  upon  obedience 
to  his  requirements,  and  in  this  par- 
ticular our  brother  and  his  familv 
are  fulfilling  the  requirement  which 
entitles  them  to  the  blessings  they 
will  enjov  at  this  conference. 

I  am  looking  in  the  faces  of 
presidents  of  .stakes,  bishops  of 
wards :  and  other  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Manly  of  you  have 
made  a  sacrifice  financially  in  order 
that  you  may  be  here,  but  really  it 


is  no  sacrifice ;  it  is  an  investment 
in  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly 
Father,  "That  will  return  to  you 
good  measure,  pressed  down, 
shaken  together,  and  running  over." 
I  feel  to  suggest  now  and  here  that 
each  of  us  enjoying  these  favors  be 
not  unmindful  of  our  loved  ones, 
not  forgetful  of  our  neighbors ;  and 
at  the  time  of  stake  conferences  let 
us  go  about  encouraging  them,  that 
they  may  desire  to  be  present  in 
those  assemblies  of  the  Saints. 

Yesterday  I  saw  a  number  of  peo- 
ple here  with  their  children,  and  I 
felt  from  the  depths  of  my  soul  to 
commend  them,  and  I  know  the 
Lord  will  bless  them  and  will  bless 
their  children,  even  though  they  be 
but  young,  because  they  are  here  in 
the  service  of  the  Lord,  in  the  place 
appointed  by  him  through  his  ser- 
vants. 

Brother  Hyrum  has  been  talking 
to  us  and  reading  this  morning 
from  the  Bible,  and  it  brings  to  my 
mind  this  particular  scripture  : 

"Search  the  scriptures,  for  in  them 
ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life,  and  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  me." 

Another  scripture  came  to  mv 
mind  along  the  same  line,  and  it 
was  to  this  effect,  "that  the  Lord 
will  do  nothing  but  he  revealeth  his 
secrets  to  his  servants,  the  proph- 
ets." From  the  time  of  Father 
Adam  until  the  present  the  Lord  has 
admonished  the  people  through  his 
servants.  He  has  inspired  them  to 
better  living  when  they  have  lis- 
tened to  him,  and  from  age  to  age, 
as  his  children  have  reauired  it,  he 
has  sent  holv  men  into  the  world,  to 
impart  instruction  tending  to  hap- 
piness, has  inspired  them  to  teach 
the  glorious  truths  that  ennoble  and 
enrich  mankind,  and   few  people 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


41 


have  been  left  with  an  excuse,  but 
all  have  been  left  without  excuse 
that  have  received  the  scriptures. 

In  the  days  of  Noah,  when  he 
went  about  warning  the  people,  1 
presume  there  were  many  who  ig- 
nored his  teachings,  who  disregard- 
ed him  as  a  servant  of  God,  but  he 
was  sent  by  the  Father,  and  the  in- 
structions that  he  gave  the  people 
were  binding  upon  them ;  and  our 
Father  in  heaven,  in  his  own  due 
time,  fulfilled  the  promises  of  his 
prophet.  All  who  were  saved  from 
the  flood  were  those  who  listened 
to  Noah.  On  the  plains  of  Mamre, 
when  Abraham  petitioned  his  Holy 
Visitor  to  spare  Sodom  and  Go- 
morrah, he  was  told  that  even  if  ten 
righteous  persons  be  found,  a  very 
small  number,  too,  of  the  multi- 
tude, that  the  cities  would  be  pre- 
served. But  only  Lot  and  his  wife 
and  two  daughters  were  sufficiently 
righteous  to  merit  preservation. 
The  angels  told  them  to  leave  the 
city,  and  fire  rained  down  from 
heaven  and  consumed  the  people, 
who  had  been  warned  repeatedly  by 
the  servant  of  God  that  destruction 
would  overtake  them  if  they  failed 
to  repent.  The  Old  Testament  re- 
fers to  the  coming  of  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  Why  did  the  world 
not  know  the  Savior  when  he  came  ? 
It  was  because  they  had  departed 
from  the  teachings  of  holy  men.  It 
was  because  they  had  chosen  for 
themselves  "teachers  having  itching 
ears,  who  preached  for  hire  and 
who  divined  for  money,"  who  did 
not  teach  the  people  what  the  Lord 
desired,  so  they  were  led  astray. 
The  Savior  himself  taught  the  chil- 
dren of  men  what  was  necessary  for 
them  to  do  to  obtain  eternal  life  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Father, 
and  the  people  rejected  him,  but  his 
testimony  is  in  force,  and  the  time 


will  come  when  those  who  rejected 
him  and  consented  to  his  crucifixion 
will  meet  him  and  will  answer  for 
their  crime.  The  Old  and  New 
Testaments  contain  the  teachings  of 
our  heavenly  Father.  I  admonish 
you,  O  Israel,  search  the  scriptures  ; 
read  them  in  your  homes ;  teach 
your  families  what  the  Lord  has 
said,  and  let  us  spend  less  of  our 
time  reading  the  unimportant  and 
often  harmful  liteiature  of  the  day, 
and  go  to  the  fountain  of  truth  and 
read  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  contains 
another  evidence  of  the  importance 
that  our  heavenly  Father  attaches 
to  reading  the  scriptures.  He  sent 
the  sons  of  Lehi  back  to  Jerusalem 
to  recover  the  Old  Testament  scrip- 
ture, in  order  that  they  might  re- 
tain the  teachings  of  the  prophets. 
The  Lord  would  not  take  them  into 
a  new  country,  without  preserving 
to  them  the  privilege  of  reading  his 
teachings  to  their  forefathers. 

The  importance  of  having  the  ad- 
vice of  the  prophets  of  God  is  em- 
phasized in  our  day,  in  the  bringing 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The 
plates  from  which  it  was  translated 
were  buried  in  the  earth  by  a  Ne- 
phite  prophet.  Centuries  later  the 
Lord  directed  Joseph  Smith  to  se- 
cure and  translate  that  record,  in 
order  that  we  might  have  the  teach- 
ings of  our  Father  to  his  children 
who  dwelt  upon  this  western  land. 
We  have  the  Old  and  the  New  Tes- 
taments, the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  also  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  power  of  God, 
in  addition  new  revelations  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

While  only  a  youth  the  Lord  ap- 
peared to  him  and  later  he  was  vis- 
ited by  an  angel  who  instructed  him 
to  prepare  for  his  mission.  That 
he  might  be  a  witness  of  the  living 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  the  Lord  gave  to  him  by  reve- 
lation the  contents  of  this  record 
that  I  hold  in  my  hand,  (the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants)  containing 
over  four  hundred  pages  of  instruc- 
tion to  the  children  of  men.  How 
many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
read  the  glorious  revelations  con- 
tained in  this  record?  If  we  have 
not,  we  have  lost  an  opportunity ; 
we  have  missed  a  blessing.  Let  me 
read  what  the  Lord  says  with  refer- 
ence to  these  latter  days  in  the  first 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants : 

•'Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my 
church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are 
upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say,  heark- 
en ye  people  from  'afar,  and  ye  that 
are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen 
together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  es- 
cape, and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear.  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  pene- 
'  trated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow,  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and 
the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  com- 
mandments, which  I  have  given  them 
to  publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitans  of 
the  earth. 

"Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye 
people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have  de- 
creed in  them  shall  be  fulfilled. 

"And  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that 
they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these  tid- 
ings unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
to  them  is  power  given  to  seal  both 
on  earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbeliev- 
ing and  rebellious; 

"Yea,  verily,  to  seal  hem  up  unto 
the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall 


")e  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  with 
out  measure; 

"Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall 
come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to 
every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow 
man. 

"Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all 
that  will  hear  may  hear: 

"Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that 
which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh; 

"And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kin- 
dled, and  his  sword  is  bathed  in  heav- 
en, and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabi- 
tans of  the  earth; 

"And  the  arm  ,of  the  Lord  shall  be  re- 
vealed; and  the  day  cometh  that  they 
who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  servants, 
neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the 
prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be  cut  off 
from  among  the  people; 

"For  they  have  strayed  from  mine 
ordinances,  and  have  broken  mine 
everlasting  covenant; 

"They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  estab- 
lish his  righteousness,  but  every  man 
walketh  in  his  own  way,  and  after  the 
image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image 
is  in  the  likeness  of  the  world,  and 
whose  substance  is  that  of  an  idol, 
which  waxeth  old  and  shall  perish  in 
Babylon,  even  Babylon  the  great, 
which  shall  fall. 

"Wherefore  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave 
him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this 
that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was 
written  by  the  prophets; 

"The  weak  thigns  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man 
should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man, 
neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh. 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in 
the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in 
the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant 
might  be  established; 

"That  the  fullness  of  my  gospel 
might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


43 


the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world, 
and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken 
it:  these  commandments  are  of  me, 
and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in 
their  weakness,  after  the  manner  of 
their  language,  that  they  might  come 
to  understanding, 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  erred  it 
might  be  made  known: 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sought  wis- 
dom they  might  be  instructed: 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sinned  they 
might  be  chastened,  that  they  might 
repent: 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  were  hum- 
ble they  might  be  made  strong,  and 
blessed  from  on  high,  and  receive 
knowledge  from  time  to  time: 

"And  after  having  received  the  rec- 
ord of  the  Nephites,  yea,  even  my 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  jun.,  might  have 
power  to  translate  through  the  mercy 
of  God,  by  the  power  of  God,  the 
Book  of  Mormon; 

"And  also  those  to  whom  these 
commandments  were  given,  might 
have  power  to  lay  the  foundation  of 
this  church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out 
of  obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the 
only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I, 
the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking 
unto  the  church  collectively  and  not 
individually. 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon 
sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

"And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him 
shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which  he 
has  received,  for  my  Spirit  shall  not 
always  strive  with  man,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  yo,u,  O 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  thing  known 
unto  all  flesh, 

"For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons, 
and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is 
not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth, 
and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over 
his  own  dominion; 

"And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power 
over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign  in  their 
midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judg- 
ment upon  Idumea,  or  the  world. 

"Search    these    commandments  for 


they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in 
them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I 
have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself: 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether 
by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same; 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is 
God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth 
abideth  forever  and  ever.  Amen." 

This  preface  is  worthy  your  earn- 
est consideration.  It  is  the  admoni- 
tion of  the  Father  of  us  all.  It  is 
the  loving  advice  of  a  tender  parent 
who  knows  what  we  require,  as  he 
said  in  the  chapter  just  read  that 
knowing  what  was  about  to  come 
upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
he  gave  these  commandments.  The 
Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  do  not  contain  the  wisdom 
of  men  alone,  but  of  God.  While 
they  do  not  find  their  way  into  the 
homes  of  many  people,  they  contain 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  What  mat- 
tereth  it  though  we  understand 
Homer  and  Shakespeare  and  Mil- 
ton, and  I  might  enumerate  all  the 
great  writers  of  the  world ;  if  we 
have  failed  to  read  the  scriptures 
we  have  missed  the  better  part  of 
this  world's  literature. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  all  the 
truth  that  is  advocated  in  all  the 
teachings  of  men,  necessary  for  our 
salvation,  is  contained  within  the 
lids  of  the  books  that  I  have  already 
enumerated.  We  may  not  possess 
a  library  of  two  or  three  thousand 
volumes,  but  we  may  possess  at 
small  cost  a  priceless  library  that 
has  cost  the  best  blood  that  has  ever 
been  in  this  world.  Will  our  Father 
hold  us  guiltless  when  we  go  home, 
if  we  have  failed  to  teach  our  chil- 
dren the  importance  of  these  sacred 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


records?  I  think  not.  He  called 
his  sons  one  by  one,  and  they  gave 
their  lives  that  we  might  have  the 
Old  Testament.  He  sent  his  only 
begotten  Son  into  the  world,  and 
his  life  was  sacrificed  in  order  that 
we  might  have  the  teachings  of  the 
New  Testament.  The  prophets  of 
God  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon laid  down  their  lives  and  seal- 
ed their  testimonies  with  their 
blood,  in  order  that  the  children  of 
men  might  know  what  the  Father 
desired  of  them.  He  sent  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  he  gave 
his  life,  together  with  his  brother 
Hyrum,  in  order  that  we  might 
have  the  truths  contained  in  the  sa- 
cred record  known  as  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  Do  you  suppose 
that  after  the  Lord  has  done  all  this 
for  us,  has  given  to  this  world  the 
choicest  and  sweetest  of  men  and 
women,  whose  lives  have  been  dedi- 
cated to  the  blessing  of  mankind, 
many  of  them  sealing  their  testi- 
mony with  their  blood,  has  place  ! 
within  our  reach  the  excellent  teach- 
ings contained  in  these  holy  rec- 
ords, that  he  will  consider  us  appre- 
ciative if  we  fail  to  teach  them  to 
our  families,  and  to  impress  them 
upon  those  with  whom  we  come  in 
contact  ? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to 
emphasize  again  the  teaching  of  the 
Master  ;  "search  the  scriptures  ;" 
read  them  prayerfully  and  faith- 
fully, teach  them  in  your  homes ; 
call  your  families  around  you  and 
inspire  in  them  a  faith  in  the  living 
God,  by  reading  those  things  that 
have  been  revealed.  They  are  the 
most  precious  of  all  the  libraries  in 
all  the  world. 

And  now  I  would  like  to  empha- 
size this  fact,  that  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  we  find  the  Lord's 
warning  of  the  present  condition  of 


this  world.  We  find  there  that  the 
Saints  were  to  inhabit  this  western 
land,  and  if  they  kept  his  command- 
ments, this  should  be  Zion  unto 
them.  I  will  read  a  few  paragraphs 
from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  to 
emphasize  our  responsibility,  be- 
cause sometimes  we  seem  to  think 
that  because  we  are  blessed  of  the 
Lord  above  all  other  people,  we  can 
do  the  things  that  we  are  tempted  to 
do,  even  if  they  are  not  just  right: 

"Therefore,  verily,  thus  saith  the 
Lord,  let  Zion  rejoice,  for  this  is  Zion 
■ — the  pure  in  heart;  therefore,  let  Zion 
rejoice,  while  all  the  wicked  shall 
mourn; 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  vengeance  Com- 
eth speedily  upon  the  ungodly  as  the 
whirlwind,  and  who  shall  escape  it; 

"The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over 
by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report 
thereof  shall  vex  all  people;  yet  it 
shall  not  be  stayed  until  the  Lord 
comes." 

Now,  if  there  is  is  any  doubt  in 
the  minds  of  the  people  of  this 
Church  as  to  when  peace  shall  come 
into  the  world  again,  I  want  to  em- 
phasize by  reading  again  the  word 
of  the  Lord  wherein  he  says : 

"The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over 
by  might  and  by  day,  and  the  report 
thereof  shall  vex  all  people;  yet  it 
shall  not  be  stayed  until  the  Lord 
come. 

"For  the  indignation  of  he  Lord  is 
kindled  against  their  abominations 
and  all  their  wicked  works; 

"Nevertheless  Zion  shall  escape — " 

I  have  thought  many  times,  Oh, 
what  a  comfortable  thing  it  would 
be  for  us  if  that  had  been  the  end 
of  that  paragraph,  but  it  is  not.  It 
reads  in  full  as  follows : 

"Nevertheless  Zion  shall  escape,  if 
she  observe  to  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever I  have  commanded  her. 

"But  if  she  observe  not  to  do  what- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH.  45 


ever  I  have  commanded  her,  I  will 
visit  her  according  to  all  her  works, 
with  sore  affliction,  with  pestilence, 
with  plague,  with  sword,  with  ven- 
geance, with  devouring  fire." 

So  we  are  in  the  same  condition 
as  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the 
world.  In  fact,  I  think  we  are 
worse  off,  because  we  have  greater 
light,  and  the  Lord  will  require 
more  at  our  hands. 

So  there  is  need  for  us  to  search 
the  scriptures.  There  is  need  for 
us  to  put  ourselves  in  tune  with 
the  Spirit  of  our  Father.  There  is 
need  for  us  to  have  thanksgiving 
in  our  hearts  that  we  are  led  by- 
holy  men  who  are  inspired  by  our 
Father  in  heaven  to  teach  us  day 
by  day,  and  oh,  how  grateful  we 
ought  to  be  for  these  great  con- 
ferences that  bring  us  together 
from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  and 
unite  us  as  brethren  and  sisters 
with  a  determination  that,  "As  for 
me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the 
Lord."  We  believe  in  being  sub- 
ject to  kings,  presidents,  rulers  and 
magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring 
and  sustaining  the  law.  So  today 
in  the  midst  of  the  difficulties  that 
exist  in  the  world,  while  there  are 
transgressors  of  the  laws  of  the 
land,  and  there  are  transgressors 
of  the  laws  of  God,  in  the  midst  of 
the  conflict  in  which  we  are  now 
engaged,  this  awful  world  war,  it 
is  a  great  joy  and  satisfaction  to 
my  soul  that  while  there  are  those 
persons  who  are  opposing  this  gov- 
ernment, set  up  by  the  power  of 
God,  there  are  no  members  of  this 
Church  in  good  standing  but  are 
sustaining  the  law  arid  order 
and  the  government  of  the  United 
States,  so  far  as  it  lies  in  their 
power.  There  is  one  Church  upon 
the  continent  of  America  that  has 
been  taught  by  God  that  this  gov- 


ernment has  been  raised  up  for  the 
blessing  of  mankind.  There  is  one 
Church  whose  members  cannot  re- 
main in  good  fellowship  in  it  if 
they  criticize  and  find  fault  and 
tear  down  and  oppose  the  legal  ac- 
tion of  the  constituted  authorities 
of  the  land,  with  reference  to  going 
into  this  war;  and  why?  Because 
we  have  been  trained  by  the  gospel 
in  a  knowledge  of  the  purpose  of 
this  government.  We  have  been 
taught  by  inspired  men,  who  have 
pointed  the  way,  and  all  Israel,  to 
a  man,  comes  forward  in  the  crucial 
hour  and  says:  "If  I  am  needed, 
Lord,  here  am  I."  If  my  country 
requires  it,  my  all  is  on  the  altar, 
and  my  life  if  need  be.  God  help 
us  to  be  worthy  of  our  heritage, 
help  us  to  sustain  the  government 
that  has  been  so  good  to  us,  that 
has  made  it  possible  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  this  work.  Let  us  sus- 
tain good  men  and  great  men  every- 
where, and  pray  for  them  as  we 
are  told  to  do  in  this  same  record. 
Prav  for  the  chief  executive  of  the 
Nation  and  his  associates,  asking 
God  to  inspire  them  to  labor  for  the 
good  of  humanity  and  the  liberty 
of  mankind.  Let  us  so  live,  that, 
by  and  by,  when  our  work  is  done, 
it  will  be  truthfully  said  of  us  that 
this  world  is  better  for  our  having 
lived  in  it.  May  the  Lord  bestow 
his  blessings  upon  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  upon  all  Israel, 
wherever  they  may  be,  and  may  the 
spirit  of  peace  and  the  desire  to  do 
good  in  the  world  find  lodgement  in 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 
that  repentance  may  come,  that 
thev  may  turn  from  the  wickedness 
that  has  been  in  the  world,  and  in 
that  way  bring  about  the  Millenium 
an''  the  return  to  this  earth  of 
oeace,  that  our  Father  has  said  has 
been  taken  from  it.    God  grant  it, 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS. 

I  am  very  much  surprised  to  be 
called  upon  to  speak  before  this 
great  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  desire  that  while  I  do 
stand  before  you  I  may  have  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that 
what  I  shall  say  may  be  dictated 
by  it.  I  rejoice  with  all  my  soul 
in  the  testimonies  heard  during  this 
conference,  respecting  the  ministry 
of  the  .servants  of  God,  who  have 
been  raised  up  to  establish  his  work 
on  the  earth  in  this  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times. 

I  have  listened  with  interest  to 
the  testimonies  concerning  the  in- 
spiration and  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  characterized  the  minis- 
try of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet. 
I  .did  not  know  him,  personally, 
though  in  the  study  of  his  life  and 
ministry  sometimes  it  has  almost 
seemed  to  me  that  I  did  know  him, 
and  that  I  do  know  him ;  for  I  have 
been  reared  from  my  childhood  to 
love  him,  and  to  honor  him,  and  to 
rejoice  in  his  ministry,  and  in 
the  fact  that  God  called  him.  I 
did,  however,  know  his  successor 
in  the  presidency  of  the  Church, 
President  Brigham  Young,  from 
my  infancy.  I  have  sat  upon  his 
knees.  He  was  a  familiar  guest  at 
my  mother's  table.  I  have  traveled 
from  one  end  of  the  State  of  lTtah 
to  the  other  with  him,  when  he 
journeyed  among  the  people,  teach- 
ing and  instructing  them  in  the 
principles  of  life,  in  the  principles 
of  domestic  economy,  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  correct  government;  how 
to  establish  a  commonwealth,  and 
to  build  up  the  people  in  accordance 
with  the  design  of  our  Father  in 


heaven,  in  these  Rocky  Mountains. 
I  was  called  in  my  youth  to  go  upon 
a  foreign  mission.  He  placed  his 
hands  upon  my  head  and  set  me 
apart,  and  bestowed  upon  me  a 
blessing,  a  prophetic  blessing.  To 
the  extent  that  I  have  adhered  to 
the  admonition  of  that  blessing,  I 
have  realized  that  he  was  a  prophet 
of  God ;  that  he  foresaw  and  knew 
wherein  I  might  be  of  service,  and 
his  words  have  been  fulfilled  upon 
me.  I  knew  him  to  be  a  gentleman, 
a  man  of  pure  life,  a  man  of  great 
beneficence,  charity,  and  loving 
kindness,  and  a  man  whom  chil- 
dren loved.  He  was  a  man  to  be 
respected  by  those  of  his  faith  and 
those  not  of  his  faith,  a  command- 
ing character,  a  leader  among  men, 
a  governor,  a  guide,  a  counselor, 
a  friend,  a  father.  At  his  direction 
I  later  undertook  a  mission  among 
the  youth  of  Zion,  and  established 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improv- 
ment  Associations. 

I  knew  his  successor,  President 
John  Taylor,  and  I  had  a  testimony 
given  to  me  in  this  house,  at  the 
time  that  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  were  assembled  to  sus- 
tain him  as  president  of  the 
Church.  There  were  things  that 
caused  my  herat  to  tremble  upon 
that  occasion.  But  God  gave  to 
me  a  testimony  and  the  power  to 
stand  up  and  raise  my  hand  before 
God  and  my  fellow  men,  to  sus- 
tain him  as  president,  as  prophet, 
seer  and  revelator  of  this  Church, 
and  I  did,  and  I  do.  I  learned  to 
honor  him  and  to  love  him  and  to 
respect  him,  to  recognize  in  him  a 
servant  of  the  true  and  living  God  ; 
the  champion  of  liberty,  a  man  who 
had  an  understanding  heart,  a  man 
who  knew  government,  who  knew 
the  law.  and  helped  make  it,  who 
understood  the  comandments  of  the 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS. 


47 


Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  minis- 
tered to  this  people  in  great  power 
and  in  righteousness.  I  bear  my 
testimony  concerning  him,  that  in 
the  labor,  which  he  asked  me  to 
continue,  that  I  had  been  set  apart 
to  accomplish  among  the  young 
men  of  Zion,  he  took  me  one  day 
by  the  hand  in  his  office,  and  he 
gave  me  counsel  and  advice,  and 
bestowed  upon  me  a  blessing,  the 
fulfilment  of  which  I  have  lived  to 
realize.  It  was  prophetic,  and  I 
know,  because  of  my  personal  re- 
lationship with  that  man  in  his  min- 
istry, that  he  was  a  servant  of  God 
and  a  prophet,  and  spoke  by  the  in- 
spiration and  foresight  of  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

As  to  his  successor,  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  who  was  the 
first  General  Superintendent  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvment 
Associations,  I  was  intimately  as- 
sociated with  him  in  that  work.  I 
have  traveled  with  him  and  slept 
with  him.  I  have  listened  by  day 
and  by  night  to  his  counsel.  I  have 
shown  to  him  my  heart,  and  he  has 
read  it  through  and  through,  and 
has  said  to  me  things  that  I  would 
not  dare  and  would  not  attempt  to 
utter  before  my  fellow  men,  that 
were  full  of  comfort,  that  were  full 
of  help,  that  were  full  of  encour- 
agement, full  of  kindness  and  love  ; 
and  I  love  the  memory  of  Wilford 
Woodruff.  There  is  one  thing  he 
went  to  the  Lord  for  in  our  behalf, 
for  which  the  youth  of  this  people 
should  hold  him  in  high  reverence 
forever  and  ever,  and  I  will  relate 
it.  There  was  a  time  when  through 
the  slackness,  through  the  careless- 
ness of  the  youth  of  this  people, 
that  their  fathers  had  great  con- 
cern as  to  whether  they  would  qual- 
ify to  succeed  them  in  bearing  off 
the  responsibility  of  this  work,  in 


maintaining  the  testimony  that  the 
early  apostles  and  pioneers,  that  the 
founders  of  the  Church  had  es- 
tablished ;  and  sometimes  this  ap- 
prehension would  be  heard  in  the 
congregations  of  Israel ;  men  of 
the  older  time  would  rise  and  ex- 
press a  fear  that  when  they  should 
pass  away  the  work  might  suffer. 
President  Woodruff,  to  a  certain 
degree,  not  very  fully,  shared  this 
apprehension.  He  went  into  the 
woods  upon  a  certain  occasion  and 
prayed  to  God  and  asked  him  con- 
cerning the  condition  of  the  youth 
of  his  people,  and  God  answered 
him  and  God  revealed  to  him  that: 
"I  have  tho.se  already  among  the 
youth  of  my  people  who  will  main- 
tain this  work  and  bear  off  the  re- 
sponsibility of  it  forever.  Concern 
thyself  no  more."  President  Wood- 
ruff told  me  that  personally,  and  I 
heard  him  declare  it  in  effect  be- 
fore public  congregations. 

There  is  a  stimulation  in  that, 
young  men,  and  encouragment  in 
that.  We  no  longer  hear  that  ap- 
prehension expressed  in  the  congre- 
gations of  the  people ;  but  there  is 
faith,  instead,  there  is  confidence, 
there  is  assurance  that  no  power 
can  hinder  the  onward  progress  or 
development  and  growth  of  this 
work ;  and  that  those  of  the  youth 
today,  who  are  succeeding  their 
fathers  in  responsible  places  main- 
tain the  faith,  that  they  have  the  in- 
tegrity, they  have  the  character  and 
they  have  the  blessing  of  God  upon 
them,  by  which  they  shall  uphold 
and  sustain  this  work  and  bear  it 
off  faithfully  and  triumphantly  to 
its  ultimate  destinv,  when  its  influ- 
ence and  power  shall  extend  from 
the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 
There  is  no  influence  and  power 
that  the  world  stands  so  much  in 
need  of  this  day  as  the  influence 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  power  of  this  people,  of  the 
priesthood  that  is  among  us,  of  the 
authority  and  power  that  exists 
among  us  to  speak  and  administer 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  our  God. 

I  was  not  so  familiarly  acquaint- 
ed with  President  Lorenzo  Snow, 
though  I  knew  him  well,  and  was 
always  greeted  by  him  with  the  ut- 
most kindness  and  friendship.  The 
form  of  his  greeting  usually  was 
this,  as  he  took  me  by  the  hand  and 
saw  some  evidences,  I  suppose,  of 
good  health,  he  would  shake  and 
say :  "Well,  I  suppose  you  are  go- 
ing to  live  to  be  a  hundred."  I 
generally  responded  with  the  obser- 
vation that  I  guessed  I  should  have 
to,  if  I  ever  did  all  the  things  that 
T  would  like  to.  I  was  away  from 
home  during  much  of  the  time  of 
his  administration  as  president  of 
the  Church,  but  he  'did  entrust  me 
with  certain  opportunities  to  serve 
the  cause  and  the  people  in  his  ad- 
ministration, and  I  appreciated  that 
trust,  and  did  to  the  best  of  my  en- 
deavor that  which  he  asked  of  me. 

Now,  in  respect  to  his  successor. 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  I  feel 
honored  today  that  I  can  stand  here 
and  testify  before  you  that  from 
the  time  he  honored  me  with  his 
friendship,  and  better  acquaint- 
ance, his  confidence  and  many  ex- 
pressions of  his  love,  that  I  have 
known  him  to  be  a  man  chosen  of 
the  Almighty,  a  man  inspired  of 
Ihe  Lord,  a  man  whose  whole  heart 
has  been  given  to  the  service  of 
God.  He  has  seemed  to  me  to  per- 
sonify that  Son  of  God  who  re- 
sponded to  the  commandment  of 
the  Lord,  wherein  he  says :  "Son. 
give  me  thy  heart.'*  If  a  man  ever 
gave  up  and  surrendered  his  whole 
heart  to  God,  Joseph  F.  Smith  is 
that  man.  Now.  I  am  not  declaring 
this  to  flatter  him,  but  you  know  it, 


my  brethren  and  sisters.  No  man 
nor  woman  who  has  come  under  the 
influence  of  his  ministry  in  this 
commjunity,  but  who  knows  and 
feels,  realizes  that,  this  is  the  truth ; 
and  that  is  why  he  is  great,  and 
whv  he  is  successful,  and  why  he 
will  he  successful  and  will  accom- 
plish all  that  God  requires  at  his 
hands. 

My  testimony  to  you  is,  then, 
that  these  men  whom  I  have  named 
and  whom  I  have  personally  known 
were  men  of  God,  were  men  of 
high  character,  and  of  ability.  Thev 
were  men  who,  among  men  of  no 
faith  or  of  other  faiths,  would  have 
stood  out  as  individual  characters, 
commanding  influence  and  respect. 
Thev  were  men  who  dedicated 
themselves  without  restraint,  hold- 
in  e  nothing;  back,  to  the  whole  ser- 
vice of  God,  the  establishment  of 
this  work  known  as  "Mormonism" 
in  the  world.  This  because  of 
their  conviction  and  testimony  and 
knowledge  that  it  was  of  God  and 
is  true,  and  that  it  must  prevail  on 
the  earth.  Thev  accepted  the  mis- 
sion to  declare  it  to  mankind.  They 
have  transmitted  that  mission  to  us. 
Tt  is  our  business  to  declare  the 
truth  to  mankind,  and  God  will  not 
hold  us  euiltless  if  we  fail  to  do  so. 
but  he  will  honor  us  in  doing  it.  He 
will  uphold  us,  no  matter  before 
whom  we  go,  if  we  stand  valiantly 
for  what  we  know  to  be  true. 

My  testimony  to  you  is  that  the 
Lord  never  fails  to  uphold  and  sus- 
tain those  who  will  be  true  in  their 
testimony  concerning  this  work. 
May  he  help  every  one  of  us  to  be 
true,  and  to  declare  it,  and  to  per- 
form our  part,  however  humble  or 
in  whatever  field  of  labor,  for  the 
Lord  Jesus'  sake.  Amen. 

The  congregation    sang:  "Do 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


49 


what  is  right,  the  day  dawn  is 
breaking." 

Elder  Andrew  Kimball,  President 
of  the  St.  Joseph  stake  of  Zion,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 
.  Conference    adjourned    until  2 
p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

At  2  o'clock  the  conference  was 
called  to  order  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "Redeemer  of  Israel, 
our  only  delight." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Jacob  T.  Tanner,  First  Counselor 
in  the  Presidency  of  the  Beaver 
stake  of  Zion. 

Sister  Shanna  Tout  .sang  a  solo : 
"O,  rest  in  the  Lord." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

Purpose  of  prophecy — The  supernat- 
ural discredited — Dead  prophets  pre- 
ferred to  living  ones — The  modern 
Zion  —  Why  not  established — A 
Tempest  of  War  foretold — The 
Saints  migrate  to  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains— North  against  South — The 
World  War — Dangers  upon  the 
deep — The  Food  question — What  of 
the  Outcome? 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  noth- 
ing, but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto 
his  servants  the  prophets." — Amos  3:7. 

The  words  are  those  of  a  prophet 
of  God  who  figured  in  the  midst  of 
the  Hebrew  nation  about  eight  hun- 
dred years  before  the  birth  of  the 
Savior.  A  more  modern  translation 
of  the  text  might  have  rendered  it 
thus  :  Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do 
nothing,  without  first  revealing  it 
to  his  servants  the  prophets.  But  it 
is  sufficiently  plain  in  its  present 


form.  The  meaning  I  understand 
to  be  this :  The  all-wise  Dispenser 
of  human  affairs  will  neither  cause 
nor  permit  any  event  to  take  place, 
affecting  the  weal  or  woe  of  the 
human  family,  until  he  has  first 
communicated  with  his  chosen  ser- 
vants, his  oracles  among  men,  and 
given  them  due  notice  of  its  ap- 
proach, making  them  wise  as  to  his 
purpose,  that  they  in  turn  may  make 
wise  the  people;  the  object  being 
that  some  sort  of  preparation  shall 
precede  the  event  in  question.  The 
promised  sending  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord, 
as  foretold  by  Malachi,  was  in  or- 
der that  certain  things  might  be 
done  which,  if  left  undone,  would 
cause  that  coming  to  smite  the  earth 
with  a  curse. 

To  prepare  God's  people,  and 
through  them  the  world  at  large, 
for  changes  that  must  come  in  the 
carrying  out  of  the  divine  program, 
is  the  function  of  the  prophet,  who 
foretells  the  future;  of  the  seer, 
who  looks  through  time  into  eter- 
nity; of  the  revelator,  who  delivers 
the  word  and  will  of  the  Universal 
Father  to  his  children.  The  aims 
of  the  prophets  are  high  and  noble. 
They  desire  the  happiness  and 
progress  of  the  race ;  yet  almost  in- 
variably they  are  misunderstood, 
ridiculed,  opposed  and  persecuted. 

There  is  a  proneness  in  human 
nature  to  discredit  prophets  and 
other  divinely  inspired  men.  The 
supernatural  is  nearly  always  dis- 
counted, if  not  derided,  by  ultra- 
practical  minds.  "The  natural  man 
is  an  enemy  to  God."  All  miracles 
are  myths  to  modern  pseudo-science 
and  its  arrogant  handmaid,  the  so- 
called  "Higher  Criticism."  To  be- 
lieve in  prophecies,  visions  and  rev- 
elations,   is    "to    live  in  haunted 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


houses."  So  one  learned  gentleman 
asserted  in  an  educational  address 
recently  delivered  in  some  of  our 
western  towns.  Even  those  who 
revere  the  prophets  of  the  past  are 
tempted  to  ignore  the  prophets  of 
the  present.  It  seems  natural  to 
turn  from  What  Is  and  bow  down 
to  What  Has  Been. 

"Seven   cities    claimed    the   birth  oi 

Homer,  dead, 
Through    which    the     living  Homer 

begged  for  bread." 

The  Savior  reproved  the  pious 
unbelievers  of  his  generation  for 
garnishing  the  sepulchres  of  the 
dead  prophets  and  rejecting  the  liv- 
ing ones,  as  their  fathers  ha:l  done 
before  them.  A  professed  rever- 
ence for  Moses  and  the  old-time 
servants  of  God  was  a  prominent 
characteristic  of  those  who  spurned 
the  greatest  of  all  prophets,  the 
very  Son  of  God,  concerning  whom 
Moses  and  others  had  testified.  And 
this  same  spirit,  the  spirit  that  cru- 
cified the  Christ,  brought  about  in 
the  Nineteenth  Century  the  mar- 
tyrdom of  the  prophet,  revelator 
and  seer,  Joseph  Smith. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  one  of  his 
predictions,  of  interest  to  us  all. 
from  the  fact  that  it  constitutes  the 
reason  why  "Mormonism"  came 
into  the  world.  That  reason  was,  in 
brief,  that  Israel  might  be  gathered, 
that  Zion  might  be  brought  forth, 
and  the  way  prepared  for  the  com- 
ing of  the  Lord  in  his  glory.  This 
revelation,  only  a  part  of  which  I 
will  read,  came  to  the  Prophet  in 
the  month  of  March,  1831  : 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  great 
things  await  you.  Ye  hear  of  wars  in 
foreign  lands,  but  behold  I  say  unto 
you,  they  are  nigh,  even  at  your  doors, 
and  not  many  years  hence  ye  shall 
hear  of  wars  in  your  own  land. 


*'  Vv  herefore  I  the  Lord  have  said, 
Gather  ye  out  from  the  eastern  lands, 
assemble  ye  yourselves  together,  ye 
elders  of  my  church,  go  ye  forth  into 
the  western  countries,  call  upon  the 
inhabitants  to  repent,  and  inasmuch  as 
they  do  repent  build  up  churches  unto 
me;  [that  is,  branches  of  the  Church] 

"And  with  one  heart  and  with  one 
mind  gather  up  your  riches,  that  ye 
may  purchase  an  inheritance  which 
shall  hereafter  be  appointed  unto  you. 

"And  it  shall  be  called  the  New 
Jerusalem,  a  land  of  peace,  a  city  of 
refuge,  a  place  of  safety  for  the  saints 
of  the  Most  High  God; 

"And  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  there,  and  the  terror  of  the  Lord 
also  shall  be  there,  insomuch  that  the 
wicked  will  not  come  unto  it,  and  it 
shall  be  called  Zion. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  among 
the  wicked,  that  every  man  that  will 
not  take  his  sword  against  his  neigh- 
bor, must  needs  flee  unto  Zion  for 
safety. 

"And  there  shall  be  gathered  unto  it 
out  of  every  .nation  under  heaven; 
and  it  shall  be  the  only  people  that 
shall  not  be  at  war  one  with  another, 

"And  it  shall  be  said  among  the 
wicked,  Let  us  not  go  up  to  battle 
against  Zion,  for  the  inhabitants  of 
Zion  are  terrible,  wherefore  we  cannot 
stand. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
righteous  shall  be  gathered  out  from 
among  all  nations,  and  shall  come  to 
Zion,  singing  with  songs  of  everlast- 
ing joy"  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  45: 
62-71). 

This  Church  was  less  than  one 
year  old  when  that  revelation  was 
given,  and  but  little  more  than  a 
year  old  when  an  attempt  was  made 
to  carry  out  the  divine  instruction. 
The  place  for  the  City  was  revealed 
— Jackson  County,  Missouri — and 
the  plan  whereby  Zion  would  be  es- 
tablished was  also  made  known. 
Then  why — this  being  our  mission 
— are  we  not  engaged  in  it?  Well, 
we  are  engaged  in  it.  But  why  are 
we  up  here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
instead  of  down  in  Missouri,  build- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


51 


ing  up  Zion?  Well,  there  are  sev- 
eral reasons  why  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  not  yet  been  able  to 
completely  carry  out  the  terms  of 
this  prophecy.  One  reason  was 
mentioned  yesterday  in  the  splendid 
address  delivered  by  President 
Smith.  The  people  who  received 
these  instructions  had  to  "flee  from 
the  wrath  to  come."  The  mam  rea- 
son, however,  was  selfishness  on 
these  instructions  had  to  "flee 
sary  unity.  "There  were  jarrings 
and  contentions  and  envyings  and 
strifes  and  lustful  and  covetous  de- 
sires among  them  ;"  and  because  of 
these  things  the  Lord  permitted 
their  enemies  to  come  upon  them 
and  drive  them  from  the  goodly 
land.  They  were  a  good  people, 
better  than  those  who  persecuted 
them,  but  not  good  enough  to  carry 
out  the  high  and  holy  purposes  of 
Deity.  Had  they  been  in  all  re- 
spects what  the  Lord  wanted  them 
to  be,  and  what  their  .descendants 
will  have  to  be  in  order  to  fulfil 
prophecy,  Zion  might  have  been  re- 
deemed in  their  day.  But  they  did 
not  prove  equal  to  the  undertaking, 
and  consequently  a  next-best  course 
had  to  be  pursued. 

A  great  storm-cloud  was  gather 
ing  over  this  Nation  and  over  the 
whole  world,  and  on  Christmas  day. 
1832,  the  Prophet  uttered  a  predic- 
tion concerning  it.  He  said  that 
war  would  be  "poured  out  upon  all 
nations,"  beginning  at  a  certain 
place — South  Carolina — and  subse- 
quently be  declared  that  the  conflict 
would  arise  over  the  slave  question. 
Twenty-eight  years  and  a  few 
months  from  that  time,  this  predic- 
tion began  to  have  its  fulfilment, 
when  the  first  gun  was  fired  on  Fort 
Sumter,  April  12,  1861  ;  an  act 
precipitating  the  war  between  the 
North  and  the  South.   The  greater 


part  of  the  prophecy  is,  of  course, 
in  the  future. 

Now,  because  of  these  events  and 
their  own  unpreparedness,  the 
Lord's  people  had  to  "wait  for  a 
little  season  for  the  redemption  of 
Zion."  They  were  told  that  they 
must  first  become  mighty — not  only 
in  numbers  and  material  influence, 
but  by  the  power  of  God,  descend- 
ing upon  them  as  an  endowment 
from  on  high.  And  meanwhile,  as 
the  President  informed  us,  they  had 
to  "flee  the  wrath  to  come" — 
had  to  seek  shelter  from  the  tem- 
pest.which,  when  it  burst,  spent 
much  of  its  fury  upon  those  lands 
from  which  the  Saints  had  been 
driven.  Nearly  twenty  years  before 
the  Civil  War  the  Prophet  predicted 
the  removal  of  the  Saints  to  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  and  four  years 
later  that  removal  besran.  Here  they 
were  to  become  a  mighty  people,  the 
prospective  saviors  of  the  Nation. 
Here  they  have  founded  stakes  of 
Zion,  preparatory  to  the  redemption 
of  Zion  proper.  That  is  why  we 
are  up  here  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains, instead  of  down  there  in  the 
State  of  Missouri. 

The  tempest  of  war  did  not  end 
with  the  strife  between  the  North- 
ern and  the  Southern  States.  That 
was  only  the  beginning  of  the 
storm.  God's  people  were  warned 
to  keep  out  of  the  way  until  the  ca- 
lamities foretold  should  have  done 
their  work  and  until  the  way  should 
be  prepared  before  them.  The 
Prophet  having  been  slain,  his  suc- 
cessor, President  Brigham  Young, 
led  the  people  to  these  mountain 
fastnesses.  He  also  was  inspired 
by  the  spirit  of  prophecy  and  reve- 
lation ;  and  I  testify  that  every  man 
who  has  since  occupied  the  same 
position   and    presided    over  this 


53 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Church,  has  likewise  been  a  prophet 
of  the  Most  High  God. 

I  wish  now  to  refer  to  one  of 
these  men  and  to  certain  predictions 
that  he  made.  I  heard  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  in  April,  1893, 
when  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  was 
dedicated,  declare  that  from  that 
time  forth  the  Latter-day  Saints 
would  have  more  influence  in  the 
world  and  their  representatives 
would  be  treated  with  greater  re- 
spect and  consideration  by  their  fel- 
low men  than  ever  before.  In  the 
autumn  of  that  year  I  accompanied 
President  Woodruff  and  his  coun- 
selors, Presidents  George  O.  Can- 
non and  Joseph  F.  Smith,  with  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  to  the  World's 
Fair  at  Chicago.  Among  the  points 
visited  en  route  was  Independence, 
Jackson  County,  Missouri.  Just 
sixty  years  before,  our  people  had 
been  ruthlessly  driven  from  that 
part,  and  every  form  of  indignity 
heaped  upon  them.  Fiftv-eight 
years  before,  this  same  Wilford 
Woodruff,  then  a  priest  on  his  way 
to  fill  a  mission  in  the  Southern 
States,  had  passed  through  Jackson 
County,  at  a  time  when  it  was  al- 
most as  much  a,s  a  "Mormon's"  life 
was  worth  to  be  seen  there.  Be- 
cause of  this  hostile  sentiment  he 
had  to  conceal  his  identityand  almost 
skulk  through  the  county,  to  avoid 
the  danger.  But  how  was  it  in  the 
autumn  of  1893?  Why,  the  whole 
town  of  Independence  came  out  to 
preet  the  "Mormon"  leader ;  the 
Mavor  delivered  a  speech  of  wel- 
come, and  the  people  vied  with  each 
other  in  doing  honor  and  showing 
courtesv  to  the  head  of  the  unpop- 
ular and  hated  Church. 

Here  is  another  prediction,  ut- 
tered bv  President  Woodruff  the 
year  after  that  visit  to  Jackson 
County.    T  will  not  read  it  all.  for 


my  time  is  limited.  This  was  de- 
livered at  Brigham  City,  in  June, 
1894.    The  President  said : 

"God  has  held  the  angels  of  de- 
struction for  many  5'ears,  lest  they 
should  reap  down  the  wheat  with  the 
tares.  I  want  to  tell  you  now  that 
these  angels  have  left  the  portals  of 
heaven,  and  they  stand  over  this  peo- 
ple and  this  nation  now,  and  are  hov- 
ering over  the  earth,  waiting  to  pour 
out  the  judgments,  and  from  this  very 
day  they  shall  be  poured  out.  Calami- 
ties and  troubles  are  increasing  in  the 
earth,  and  there  is  a  meaning  to  these 
things.  Remember  this,  and  reflect 
upon  these  matters.  If  you  do  your 
duty,  and  I  do  my  duty,  we  shall  have 
protection  and  be  shielded  and  pass 
vhrough  the  afflictions  in  peace  and  in 
safety.  Read  the  scriptures  and  the 
revelations;  they  will  tell  you  about 
all  these  things.  Great  changes  are 
at  our  doors.  The  next  twenty  years 
will  see  mighty  changes  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  You  will  live  to 
see  these  things,  whether  I  do  or  not. 
T  have  felt  oppressed  with  the  weight 
of  these  matters,  and  I  felt  I  must 
speak  of  them  here." 

It  was  just  twenty  years  from 
the  time  these  fateful  words  were 
spoken,  when  the  great  war  broke 
out  in  Europe — a  war  that  has 
caused  many  "mighty  changes 
among  the  nations"  and  is  evidently 
destined  to  cause  many  more. 

Just  before  the  strife  began,  a 
learned  gentleman  from  another 
state,  a  great  and  good  man,  stood 
no  in  this  Tabernacle  and  expressed 
the  positive  conviction  that  there 
could  not  be  another  great  war.  He 
gave  his  reasons,  and  thev  were 
most  plausible.  Others  had  done 
the  same.  Thev  said  the  world  had 
advanced  too  far ;  the  nations  were 
too  civilized,  too  cultured  to  permit 
of  it :  it  simply  could  not  be.  The 
Savior  said,  two  thousand  years 
a?o,  that  such  thines  must  be 
''Matthew  24 :6) — they  were  one  of 
the  signs  of  his  second  coming;  and 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


53 


God's  prophet  in  latter  days  de- 
clared that  war  would  be  "poured 
out  upon  all  nations."  But  this 
learned  man  maintained  that  such 
things  were  impossible.  It  was  only 
a  few  days  after  he  had  so  ex- 
pressed himself,  when  the  greatest 
hell  of  conflict  that  this  world  has 
ever  known  broke  out,  and  now 
threatens  to  wrap  the  world  in 
flames.  In  the  light  of  such  devel- 
opments, which  do  you  deem  the 
more  trustworthy,  the  theories  of 
men,  or  the  revelations  of  Almighty 
God? 

One  frightful  phase  of  the  great 
conflict  is  the  havoc  wrought  by  the 
German  U-boats,  otherwise  known 
as  submarines.  A  revelation  given 
through  Joseph  Smith  in  August, 
1831,  connects  closely  with  these 
fearful  happenings.  The  Prophet, 
with  a  company  of  Elders,  was  re- 
turning from  his  first  visit  to  Mis- 
souri. They  had  made  their  camp 
at  a  place  called  Mcllwair's  Bend, 
on  the  Missouri  River,  where  one 
of  the  party,  William  W.  Phelps, 
had  a  vision  of  the  destroyer  riding 
in  fury  upon  the  waters.  This  inci- 
dent brought  forth  the  revelation, 
a  part  of  which  ran  as  follows  : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  dangers 
upon  the  waters,  and  more  especially 
hereafter; 

"For  I  the  Lord  have  decreed  in 
mine  anger,  many  destructions  upon 
the  waters:  yea,  and  especially  upon 
these  waters; 

"Nevertheless,  all  flesh  is  in  mine 
hand,  and  he  that  is  faithful  among 
you  shall  not  perish  by  the  waters. 
******* 

"Behold  I,  the  Lord,  in  the  begin- 
'iiing  blessed  the  waters,  but  in  the 
last  days,  by  the  mouth  of  my  servant 
John,  I  cursed  the  waters: 

"Wherefore,  the  days  will  come  that 
no  flesh  shall  be  safe  upon  the  waters, 

"And  it  shall  be  said  in  days  to 
come  that  none  is  able  to  go  up  to 


the  land  of  Zion  upo,n  the  waters,  but 
he  that  is  upright  in  heart. 

"And  as  I  the  Lord  in  the  beginning 
cursed  the  land,  even  so  in  the  last 
days  have  I  blessed  it,  in  its  time, 
for  the  use  of  my  saints,  that  they 
may  partake  the  fatness  thereof. 

"And  now  I  give  unto  you  a  com- 
mandment that  what  I  say  unto  one  I 
say  unto  all,  that  you  shall  forewarn 
your  brethren  concerning  these  wa- 
ters, that  they  come  not  in  journey- 
ing upon  them,  lest  their  faith  fail 
and  they  are  caught  in  her  snares. 

"I  the  Lord  have  decreed,  and  the 
destroyer  rideth  upon  the  face  thereof, 
and  I  revoke  not  the  decree"  (Doc. 
and  Gov.  61:4-6,  14-19). 

"No  flesh  shall  be  safe  upon  the 
waters."  Isn't  that  time  almost 
here?  Even  upon  the  calm  Pa- 
cific no  ship  dares  to  pursue  con- 
secutively the  same  track  twice. 
The  companies  operating  the  great 
ocean  liners  no  longer  announce  the 
dates  of  departure  from  one  port, 
or  of  expected  arrival  at  another. 
They  dare  not.  The  destroyer  is 
abroad,  death  is  in  the  depths,  and 
the  spirit  of  dread  broods  upon  the 
bosom  of  the  waters.  And  this 
upon  the  comparatively  peaceful 
Western  Ocean.  Upon  the  At- 
lantic, in  the  Mediterranean,  and  in 
the  North  Sea,  the  terrible  submar- 
ine tells  the  tale  of  danger  and  dis- 
aster. 

Another  phase  of  the  gigantic 
struggle  is  the  food  question.  Jos- 
eph Smith  predicted  famine,  and 
President  Brigham  Young,  many 
years  ago,  placed  upon  the  sisters 
of  the  Relief  Society  a  special  mis- 
sion, that  of  gathering  and  storing 
grain  against  a  time  of  scarcity.  I 
well  remember  how  lightly  es- 
teemed by  some  were  the  labors  of 
these  devoted  women.  Some  of 
them  went  to  one  of  our  bishops 
and  asked  him  to  build  them  a  gran- 
ary. He  smiled  benignantly  and  told 
them  to  bring  along  their  grain  and 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he  would  store  it  for  them  in  his 
barn,  implying  that  they  would  not 
gather  very  much.  The  sentiment 
at  that  time,  in  certain  places,  was 
that  there  could  not  be  another 
famine  in  this  world.  Too  much  of 
the  acreage  of  the  earth  was  under 
cultivation,  and  the  means  of  rapid 
transit  and  communication  were  too 
plentiful.  If  a  famine  threatened 
any  part  of  the  planet,  word  of  it 
could  come  in  the  twinkling  of  an 
eye,  and  millions  on  millions  of  tons 
of  food-stuffs  could  be  transported 
to  the  scene,  staving  off  the  strait- 
ness  and  rendering  such  a  calamity 
impossible. 

Alas  for  those  who  put  their 
trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh !  How  is  it 
today?  In  spite  of  the  great  and 
ever-increasing  productivity  of  the 
earth,  in  spite  of  railroads,  steam- 
ships and  telegraphs,  this  is  a  fam- 
ine-threatened world.  Europe  calls 
to  America  for  food ;  America  re- 
sponds ;  but  as  fast  as  she  consigns 
her  cargoes  of  grain  and  other 
food-stuffs  to  the  needy  nations, 
the  merciless  and  devouring  sub- 
marine sends  them  to  the  bottom 
of  the  sea. 

Eff  orts  have  not  been  wanting  to 
meet  the  situation  and  ward  off  the 
impending  catastrophe.  Six  months 
ago  President  Smith,  addressing  a 
general  priesthood  meeting,  with  a 
view  to  encouraging  a  wider  culti- 
vation of  the  soil,  offered,  as  Trust- 
ee-in-Trust,  cash  premiums  in  gen- 
erous amounts  for  the  best  yields 
of  agricultural  products  .resulting 
from  the  labors  of  various  local  or- 
ganizations. The  Young  Men's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association 
seconded  this  action  of  the  Trust- 
ee-in-Trust,  by  furnishing  and 
sending  to  the  boys  of  Utah  free 
seed  for  the  raising  of  more 
abundant  crops.    The  whole  nation 


has  been  aroused  to  the  necessity 
existing  for  the  avoidance  of  waste 
and  the  conservation  of  food-stuffs ; 
and  the  entire  civilized  world  has 
awakened  to  the  same  urgent  call. 
The  "Mormon"  grain-storing  move- 
ment is  no  longer  a  joke,  subject 
for  ridicule.  God  has  vindicated 
the  patient  labors  of  the  Sisters, 
and  fulfilled  the  forebodings  of 
prophecy. 

WHAT  OF  THE  OUTCOME? 

What  will  be  the  outcome  of  the 
awful  strife  now  raging?  Will  the 
world  be  "made  safe  for  democ- 
racy," or  will  it  be  ground  under 
the  iron  heel  of  an  autocratic  mil- 
itary despotism  ?  I  cannot  believe 
that  such  a  calamity  is  in  store.  He 
who  died  to  make  man  free,  and 
whose  gospel  is  "the  perfect  law  of 
liberty,"  will  never  permit  the  en- 
slavement of  the  human  race.  He 
who  in  the  beginning  instituted 
laws  for  man's  advancement  will 
never  tolerate  such  a  turning  back 
of  the  wheels  of  eternal  progress. 
Having-  decreed  the  world's  eman- 
cipation from  every  form  of  mis- 
rule, he  will  never  allow  the  en- 
thronement of  universal  tyranny. 

Nevertheless,  He  will  accomplish 
in  his  own  way  the  work  that  he 
has  set  his  hand  to  do,  and  will 
use  this  people  and  all  peoples  in 
the  process.  His  gospel  must  have 
free  access  into  and  among  all  na- 
tions, and  the  nation  that  fights 
against  him  will  perish.  All  power 
is  his,  both  in  heaven  and  on  earth, 
and  he  will  never  let  his  work  be 
thwarted  by  any  scheme  for  per- 
sonal or  national  aggrandizement. 
More  to  God  is  man's  salvation 
than  the  perpetuity  of  any  dy- 
nasty or  the  glory  of  any  earthly 
empire. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


55 


A  greater  warfare  is  in  progress 
than  now  shakes  the  shores  of 
Europe — a  warfare  whose  begin- 
ning was  coeval  with  the  foundation 
of  the  world.  Far  greater  than  any 
strife  between  man  and  man,  is  the 
world-old  controversy  between  God 
and  Satan,  between  freedom  and 
oppression,  between  right  and 
wrong.  And  right  will  triumph, 
and  God  will  be  glorified.  The 
world  will  be  made  safe  for  democ- 
racy— safe  for  all  righteous  insti- 
tutions. Israel  will  be  gathered, 
Zion  redeemed,  and  the  way  pre- 
pared for  the  King  of  kings  and  the 
Millennial  reign  of  universal  free- 
dom and  peace. 

An  instrumental  piece  of  music 
entitled,  "A  Pastoral  Offertory," 
was  given  by  Prof.  Kellersberger 
and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  the  solo  for 
the  English  horn  by  Prof.  Kellers- 
berger,— Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the 
great  organ. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 

Economy  and  thrift,  and  a  conserva- 
tion of  material  things,  commenda- 
ble and  pleasing  to  God — An  appeal 
to  the  Saints  to  give  more  attention 
to  the  protection  and  conservation 
of  youth,  manhood  and  womanhood 
— The  sacredness,  sanctity  and  per- 
manence of  family  relationships — 
The  gospel  should  be  taught  in 
every  home  for  the  protection  of  its 
inmates — The  dangers  arising  from 
a  neglect  of  prayer  and  from  bad 
example — Tobacco,  particularly  the 
cigarette,  is  a  menace  to  manhood; 
some  illustrations — It  is  unpatriotic 
to  send  tobacco  to  our  soldiers  to 
sap  their  manhood  and  undermine 
their  strength — Testimony. 

The  burden  of  the  message  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  during  this 
conference  has  been  a  heart-felt 
admonition  to  keep  the  command- 


ments of  God,  to  live  .in  harmony 
with  his  priesthood.  I  wish  in  my 
soul  that  every  man,  woman  and 
child  in  the  Church  might  have 
heard  those  appeals  from  the  ser- 
vants of  God  to  Israel  to  keep  his 
commandments.  There  is  one  com- 
mandment which  I  feel  impressed 
to  read  this  afternoon  : 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents 
have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes,  which  are  organized,  and  they 
teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trines of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  in  bap- 
tism and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands  when  eight 
years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads 
of  the  parents,  for  this  shall  be  a  law 
unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in 
any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organ- 
ized." 

We  have  heard,  during  the  last 
year,  a  great  deal  about  the  neces- 
sity of  conservation.  We  have  been 
admonished  from  pulpits  and  by  the 
press  to  conserve  our  resources, 
and  in  a  measure  the  people  have 
responded  nobly  to  that  appeal.  On 
every  hand  you  can  see  evidences 
of  the  desire  on  the  part  of  the  peo- 
ple to  conserve  the  products  of  the 
earth,  and  to  utilize  them  for  the 
blessing  of  the  people  who  are  in 
distress.  There  is  more  care  taken 
on  the  farm  to  reap  the  harvest  with 
which  God  has  blessed  the  people ; 
there  is  more  thought  given  in  the 
kitchen,  and  the  food  stuff  is  being 
conserved  and  more  economically 
used,  perhaps,  than  ever  before ; 
and  yet  economy  and  thrift  are 
fundamentals  in  the  social  organiza- 
tion and  in  the  teachings  of  this 
Church.  But  the  war  has  brought 
the  necessity  of  it  home  to  us,  as 
nothing  else  perhaps  in  the  world 
has  done. 

At  noon  today  some  of  us  saw  a 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


wonderful  display  of  the  result  of 
one  phase  of  this  conservation  and 
service.  I  refer  to  the  exhibit  which 
the  General  Board  of  Primary  As- 
sociations has  on  display  in  the 
Bishop's  building.  Hundreds  of 
useful  products — the  result  of  dili- 
gence on  the  part  of  your  little 
boys  and  girls — made  out  of  old 
clothes,  discarded  suits,  and  other 
material,  are  now  placed  in  the 
hands  of  the  General  Board  to  be 
sent  to  the  Red  Cross  Association, 
for  the  benefit  and  relief  of  the 
soldiers  at  the  front.  I  approve  of 
it  as  a  most  commendable  example 
of  what  may  be  accomplished  by  or- 
ganized, and  well-directed  effort. 

This  conservation  and  care  is  in 
keeping  with  the  example  which 
Jesus  gave  his  disciples.  You  re- 
member on  one  occasion  he  fed  the 
multitude  and  commanded  them  to 
sit  on  the  grass,  and  with  five  barley 
loaves  and  two  fishes  fed  the  five 
thousand,  after  which  he  said,  now 
"Gather  up  the  fragments  that  re- 
main, that  nothing  may  be  lost." 

All  this  conservation  of  material 
things,  I  say,  is  most  commendable 
and  pleasing  to  God,  but  the  great- 
est conservation  that  mankind  can 
engage  in  is  the  conservation  of 
youth,  the  conservation  of  man- 
hood and  the  protection  of  wom- 
anhood. I  appeal  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  today  to  give  more 
thought  to  the  protection,  to  the 
consideration,  of  the  dearest  pos- 
session you  have — your  sons  and 
daughters.  The  day  after  Christ 
gave  the  lesson  of  economy  in  tak- 
ing care  of  things  of  the  earth,  he 
said  to  some  of  the  same  multitude 
who  gathered  around  him  in  Caper- 
naum :  "Ye  seek  me  not  because  ye 
saw  the  miracles,  but  because  ye  ate 
of  the  loaves  and  were  filled.  Labor 
not  for  the  meat  which  perisheth. 


but  for  that  meat  which  endureth 
unto  everlasting  life,  which  the  Son 
of  Man  shall  give  unto  you."  And 
they  said,  "What  is  that?'"  in  sub- 
stance, "Master,  where  shall  we 
get  this?"  And  he  said,  "This  is 
the  work  of  God  that  ye  believe  on 
him  whom  he  hath  sent."  Faith  in 
Christ  is  one  of  the  principles  which 
we  should  teach  our  boys  and  girls. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,through 
revelation,  received  the  admonition, 
and  he  has  given  it  to  the  world, 
and  it  is  now  a  standing  law  in 
the  stakes,  that  it  is  the  duty  of 
fathers  and  mothers  to  teach  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation, 
based  upon  the  faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  to  their  children,  and 
those  who  do  not  have  the  respon- 
sibility placed  upon  their  shoulders. 

Oh,  I  praise  God  for  the  instruc- 
tions he  has  given  his  people  re- 
garding the  sacredness,  the  sanc- 
tity, and  permanence  of  the  family 
relationship.  Let  us  impress  these 
instructions  upon  our  children. 
First  let  us  teach  them  that  the 
proper  place  to  begin  the  family 
relationship  is  in  the  House  of  God, 
kneeling  at  his  sacred  altar  worth- 
ily. This  means  that  the  young 
man  is  just  as  pure  and  sweet  in  his 
life,  and  that  he  has  been  during  his 
teens  and  early  manhood,  as  she 
whose  hand  he  holds  in  his,  and 
who  gives  to  him  a  life  of  purity 
and  virtue,  worthy  of  motherhood, 
worthy  of  one  who  in  the  holy  of- 
fice of  motherhood  joins  with  the 
Creator  in  bringing  to  the  earth 
eternal  souls.  We  are  not  conserv- 
ing that  which  will  perish  in  time 
when  we  protect  and  guide  eternal 
spirits  from  God.  "The  stars  may 
fade  away,"  the  poet  says,  "the  sun 
himself  grow  dim  with  age,  and  na- 
ture sink  in  years,  but  man  shall 
flourish   in    immortal    youth,  un- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


57 


hurt  amidst  the  war  of  elements, 
the  wreck  of  matter,  and  the  crash 
of  worlds." 

The  little  babe  comes  to  the  home 
as  an  eternal  part  of  it,  when  the 
father  and  the  mother  plight  each 
other's  troth,  for  time  and  all  eter- 
nity. Let  us  teach  the  youth,  then, 
that  the  marriage  relation  is  one 
of  the  most  sacred  obligations 
known  to  man,  or  that  man  can 
make.  Teach  them  that  the  family 
is  the  first  institution  ordained  of 
God,  and  instituted  among  men. 
If  every  couple  sensed  the  sacred- 
ness  of  this  obligation,  there  would 
be  fewer  homes  broken  up  by  dis- 
agreements that  lead  to  divorces. 
The  safety,  the  perpetuity  of  our 
government,  or  of  any  republican 
form  of  government,  depends  up- 
on the  safety  and  permanency  of 
the  home.  Herein  we  get  a  glimpse 
of  one  thing  in  which  this  people 
may  be  the  saviors,  in  a  way,  of  this 
great  nation.  The  home  is  the 
place  where  the  perpetuation  of  the 
principles  of  liberty  as  well  as  the 
instructions  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  should  be  given  to  the  chil- 
dren. When  the  home  breaks  up. 
then  begin  the  children  to  wander 
off  into  sin.  Then  the  law  must 
reach  out  to  bring  them  back  and 
try  to  teach  them  some  principles 
of  service,  and  principles  of  true 
government;  but  oh,  how  helpless, 
how  helpless  the  state,  when  the 
home  has  failed ! 

I  have  here,,  through  the  kind- 
'  ness  of  a  state  parole  officers,  a  re- 
port of  some  of  these  unfortunate 
boys  and  girls  whose  lives  have  not 
been  conserved  properly,  and  it  is 
instructive  to  note  the  causes  of  the 
delinquency  found  among  them. 
They  are  not  naturally  bad.  I  be- 
lieve that  boys  and  girls  are  not 
naturally  wicked.    We  are  prone  to 


do  evil,  it  is  true,  but  we  are  also 
prone  to  do  right,  and  the  children 
of  Latter-day  Saint?  are  entitled  to 
that  proneness  to  do  right  even 
nore  than  any  other  children  in  the 
world,  particularly  if  the  parents 
have  radiated  in  the  home,  from 
babyhood  and  through  childhood 
and  manhood,  the  spirit  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  as  the  revela- 
tion here  requires. 

In  our  Industrial  School,  in  the 
month  of  November,  1910,  there 
were  enrolled  110  boys.  Sixty  per 
cent  of  those  boys  came  from 
broken  homes,  7  per  cent  of  that 
60  per  cent  came  from  homes 
where  parents  were  divorced ;  18 
per  cent,  where  the  fathers  were 
dead ;  10  per  cent,  where  the  moth- 
ers were  dead ;  7  per  cent,  where 
both  parents  were  dead ;  8  per  cent, 
of  the  children  deserted  by  one  or 
both  of  the  parents.  Of  the  re- 
maining 40  per  cent  of  boys,  home 
conditions  were  blasted  by  the  use 
of  liquor  as  follows :  fathers  ad- 
dicted to  the  use  of  liquor,  22  per 
cent ;  mothers  addicted,  4  per  cent. 

The  inspiration  of  God  is  seen 
in  requiring  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  keep  their  homes  intact,  and  to 
teach  their  children  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Now, 
T  do  not  mean  by  that  that  we 
should  make  such  teaching  formal 
or  in  any  way  distasteful.  I  mean 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
should  radiate  in  every  home ;  that 
the  prayer  night  and  morning 
should  be  offered  up  in  sincerity ; 
that  the  children  daily  would  real- 
ize that  we  desire  in  our  home  the 
presence  of  God.  If  we  can  invite 
the  Savior  there,  we  may  know  that 
the  angels  will  be  not  only  willing 
but  eager  to  protect  our  boys  and 
girls.  I  believe  that  in  most  homes 
boys  and  girls  are  taught  to  pray 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


before  retiring  for  the  night.  I  be- 
lieve, however,  that,  too  generally, 
the  morning  prayers  are  neglected. 
When  we  come  to  think  of  it, 
though,  it  is  during  the  waking 
hours  that  our  boys  and  girls  need 
the  protection  of  God,  and  the  guid- 
ance of  his  Holy  Spirit,  more  even 
than  when  they  are  asleep.  The 
dangers  surrounding  our  boys  and 
girls  today  are  the  dangers  that 
come  to  them  out  in  society,  out  in 
the.  darkness  of  the  night,  when 
they  are  away  from  the  parental  in- 
fluence. I  plead  with  the  parents 
of  the  Church  to  know  where  your 
boys  and  girls  are  at  night,  between 
the  hour  of  sunset  and  the  hour  of 
retiring.  I  plead  with  you  to  know- 
where  they  are  during  the  day. 
Keep  your  minds  upon  them.  Let 
your  thoughts  go  with  them.  La- 
bor not  so  much  for  that  which  will 
perish,  but  for  that  which  endures 
eternally,  for  the  lives  which  God 
has  given  you  to  protect  in  this 
world;  that  the  sin  of  their  failing, 
the  sin  of  their  degradation,  it  may- 
be, may  not  rest  upon  your  shoul- 
ders. 

Homes  are  made  permanent 
through  love.  Oh,  then,  let  love 
abound.  If  you  feel  that  you  have 
not  the  love  of  those  little  boys  and 
girls,  study  to  get  it.  Though  you 
neglect  some  of  the  cattle,  though 
you  fail  to  produce  good  crops, 
even,  study  to  hold  your  children's 
love.  Loyalty  is  another  element  of 
the  permanent  home.  The  loyalty 
you  afterwards  want  them  to  show 
to  the  Priesthood  of  God  should  be 
manifest  in  the  home — love,  loy- 
alty, virtue.  Cherish  these  princi- 
ples, as  you  cherish  and  treasure 
your  life.  Set  children  the  proper 
example.  It  is  folly  to  tell  a  boy 
not  to  smoke,  when  you  take  your 
pipe  out  of  your  own  mouth  to  tell 


him.  Latter-day  Saints,  let  us  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  Let  us 
try  to  teach  the  children  those  com- 
mandments. The  auxiliary  associ- 
ations are  doing  much  to  help  us. 
The  Church  in  all  its  organizations 
is  putting  forth  an  effort  to  make 
ideal  men  in  ideal  communities ;  but 
after  all,  the  responsibility  of  mak- 
ing those  ideal  men,  those  ideal 
boys  and  girls,  rests  with  the  par- 
ents, and  next  with  the  older  broth- 
ers and  sisters.  The  responsibility 
is  with  the  family,  God's  unit  in 
the  social  fabric  of  humanity.  We 
shall  never  get  away  from  it. 

In  speaking  of  the  necessity  of 
guiding  youth  and  conserving  their 
strength,  I  wish  to  commend  most 
highly  the  closing  admonition  of 
President  Grant,  when  he  referred 
to  the  appeal  that  is  being  made 
to  the  people  here  in  the  west,  to 
send  tobacco  to  our  soldier  boys. 
The  nation  today  needs  manhood, 
and  any  appeal  or  action  which  will 
tend  to  deteriorate  manhood  must 
be  looked  upon  as  unpatriotic.  The 
nation  today  has  appointed  medical 
men  everywhere  to  test  the  physical 
strength  and  mental  strength  of 
your  sons  and  brothers,  before  they 
are  entitled  to  enter  the  army.  To- 
bacco, the  cigarette  particularly,  is 
a  menace  to  manhood.  It  under- 
mines manhood.  It  weakens  the 
body.  It  unnerves  men,  where  they 
need  to  have  steady  nerves.  God 
forbid  that  our  boys  who  have  en- 
listed in  one  of  the  noblest  causes 
that  ever  a  nation  sought  to  serve, 
may  ever  have  it  reported  truthfully 
of  them  that  any  of  them  were  unfit 
to  serve  their  country  because  of 
their  indulgence  in  these  pernicious 
habits,  or  indulgence  in  passion. 
God  forbid  that  it  can  ever  be  said 
truthfully  of  our  boys  who  are  go- 
ing to  the  front,  as  it  has  been  re- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


59 


ported  of  men  in  the  battle  line  now 
that  one-third  of  them  have  been 
made  unfit  for  service  because  they 
have  been  untrue  to  the  ideals  of 
life !  Such  an  accusation  surely  can 
never  be  made  truthfully  of  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  soldier.  I  have  faith  in 
our  boys,  because  most  of  them  are 
going  out  from  homes  radiating  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation. 
Boys  who  hitherto  have  been  some- 
what indifferent  before  they  enlist- 
ed have  said,  "Father,  I  am  going 
to  get  a  blessing  from  the  Patri- 
arch," thus  filling  the  father's  heart 
with  joy,  for  he  knew  that  in  that 
blessing  the  admonition  would  be 
renewed  for  him  to  conserve  his 
manhood  by  keeping  the  words  of 
wisdom,  and  by  keeping  his  body 
unstained  by  grosser  evils.  Why, 
isn't  it  folly,  when  you  think  of  it, 
for  men  to  be  starting  a  campaign 
to  send  out  tobacco  to  our  soldiers, 
when  in  1900,  the  nation  of  Japan 
passed  a  law  prohibiting  the  use  of 
tobacco  among  the  young  people, 
principally  because  America  had 
proved  its  injurious  effects  upon 
youth?  Why  did  the  parliament  at 
Tokio  pass  such  a  law  and  send  it 
as  a  decree  from  the  emperor  ?  Be- 
cause about  twelve  years  preceding 
that,  Professor  Seaner  of  Yale  Uni- 
versity had  made  some  interesting 
examinations  among  his  students. 
He  had  measured  their  height 
when  they  came;  he  had  measured 
their  chest  girth,  and  taken  their 
weight.  He  asked  their  age,  and 
found  out,  best  of  all,  how  many 
of  them  used  tobacco,  and  how 
many  did  not.  Then  he  watched 
their  development,  and  after  nine 
years  he  published  the  results.  In 
the  first  place  he  learned  that  the 
smokers  were  about  fifteen  months 
older  than  the  non-smokers.  Sec- 
ond, notwithstanding  that  older  age, 


the  average  height  of  the  non-smok- 
ers was  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
more  than  the  smokers.  Then  at 
the  end  of  nine  years  he  tabulated 
the  following,  based  upon  his  obser- 
vations among  three  classes  :  ( 1 ) 
The  smokers  who  had  smoked  one 
year  or  more,  (2)  those  who  had 
smoked  irregularly,  and  (3)  those 
who  had  not  used  tobacco.  In 
weight,  those  who  had  not  used  to- 
bacco were  10.4  per  cent  more  than 
those  who  had  used  it  a  year  or 
more ;  6.6  per  cent  more  than  those 
who  had  used  it  irregularly ;  in 
height,  the  non-smokers  had  gained 
24  per  cent  over  those  who  smoked 
one  year  or  more;  11  per  cent  over 
those  who  smoked  irregularly.  In 
girth,  26.7  per  cent  more  than 
those  who  smoked  a  year  or  more ; 
22  per  cent  more  than  those  who 
smoked  irregularly.  The  lung  ca- 
pacity, 77  per  cent  increase  over 
those  who  smoked  a  year  or  more  ; 
49  per  cent  over  those  who  smoked 
irregularly.  Such  were  the  phys- 
ical gains.  In  intellectual  gain  he 
discovered  that  out  of  every  one 
hundred  of  the  students  who  had 
stood  at  the  head  of  their  classes, 
only  five  were  smokers,  ninety-five, 
non-smokers,  although  60  out  of 
every  hundred  used  tobacco.  That 
is  in  keeping  with  the  tests  made 
in  Harvard,  where  the  examination 
of  the  records  for  fifty  years  proved 
that  during  those  fifty  years,  not 
one  smoker  had  stood  at  the  head 
of  his  class,  although  83  per  cent 
of  the  boys  who  entered  Harvard 
were  indulging  in  the  use  of  tobac- 
co. Eighty-three  per  cent  in  the 
smoking  group,  and  17  per  cent  in 
the  non-smoking  group,  and  during 
that  fifty  years  the  heads  of  the 
classes  were  chosen  from  the  17  per 
cent  group. 

Such  facts  were  sufficient  to  in- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fluence  the  members  of  the  Parlia- 
ment of  Japan  to  pass  a  law,  in 
March,  1900,  to  be  effective  April 
1,  1900,  as  follows:  "The  smoking 
of  tobacco  by  minors  under  the  age 
of  twenty  is  prohibited." 

One  of  the  gentlemen,  speaking 
to  this  bill,  said :  "I  wanted  to  keep 
silence,  but  as  I  heard  the  gentle- 
man speaking  against  this  bill,  I  felt 
I  must  say  a  few  words  in  its  favor. 
I  heard  from  an  American  gentle- 
man that  in  his  country  a  large 
number  of  volunteers  for  the  army 
service  were  rejected  on  account 
of  the  weakness  of  their  hearts,  and 
the  chief  reason  assigned  for  this 
defect  was  their  habitual  use  of  to- 
bacco. I  do  not  need  to  say  any 
more  from  the  educational  stand- 
point, but  if  our  youths  are  to  be- 
come unfit  for  military  service  by 
the  use  of  tobacco,  it  is  alarming. 
By  all  means,  let  us  stop  the  use  of 
tobacco  by  young  persons." 

Now,  some  are  asking  us  to  send 
out  to  our  soldiers,  who  need  their 
strength,  who  need  their  nerve,  who 
need  their  intelligence,  as  they  have 
never  needed  it  before,  that  which 
is  going  to  sap  their  manhood  and 
undermine  their  strength.  I  tell 
you  it  is  not  patriotic.  Our  nation 
needs  men,  true  men,  who  will  stand 
and  fight  for  the  glorious  principles 
of  liberty  for  which  this  nation 
stands. 

God  help  us  to  conserve  the  pow- 
ers of  our  boys  and  girls.  God  help 
us  to  implant  in  their  hearts  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation.  May 
they  have  an  undying  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  know  it  is  true.  I  know 
that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  are  the  principles  of 
eternal  life.  I  bear  you  my  testi- 
mony that  the  men  who  have  stood 
at  the  head  of  this  Church  have 


been  prophets  of  God;  that  Joseph 
F.  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God ;  that 
his  counselors  are*  inspired,  ,and 
that  the  unity  among  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Church  today,  so  far  as 
I  know,  through  reading  and  hear- 
ing the  testimony  of  older  men,  is 
superior  to  what  it  has  ever  been 
in  the  history  of  the  Church.  I 
believe  that  this  oneness  is  charac- 
teristic of  the  Priesthood.  I  love 
these  presidents  of  stakes  here,  who 
preside  over  the  Saints.  They  are 
one  for  the  truth,  and  they  would 
give  their  lives  for  it.  God  help  us 
to  instil  into  the  hearts  of  the  young 
that  same  desire,  and  to  keep  our 
girls  free  and  unspotted  from  the 
association  of  men  who  have  worse 
than  murder  in  their  hearts,  and 
who  would  deprive  those  girls  and 
those  boys  of  the  ideals  of  purity 
of  "Mormonism,"  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Ever  safe  with 
God,"  was  sung  by  James  Moncarr. 

ELDER  BALDWIN  WATTS. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  intro- 
duced the  speaker,  saying  that 
Elder  Watts  had  been  a  faithful 
missionary  with  him  many  years 
ago.    Elder  Watts  said  : 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  re- 
joice in  the  privilege  of  attending 
this  conference  and,  as  President 
Smith  has  said,  I  labored  with  him 
the  greater  part  of  two  years  in 
the  British  mission.  I  learned  to 
love  him  as  dearly  as  I  ever  loved 
any  man  in  my  life,  and  I  have 
never  seen  one  moment  that  I  felt 
to  slacken  that  love.  I  proved 
when  I  was  in  that  mission  that  he 
was  a  man  who  has  the  interest  of 
the   human   family   at  heart.  I 


ELDER  BALDWIN  WATTS. 


61 


think  no  man  that  ever  lived  has  a 
greater  interest  in  the  human  fam- 
ily than  has  President  Smith  to- 
day. I  have  been  acquainted  with 
all  the  presidents  who  ever  stood 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  God, 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph  SSmith 
down  to  the  present  time,  and  i 
know,  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
they  are  men  of  God.  I  have  been 
personally  acquainted  with  all,  I 
have  listened  to  their  talk  from  time 
to  time  and,  as  Jesus  says,  "My 
sheep  know  my  voice  and  a 
stranger  they  will  not  follow." 

We  have  had  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  the  voice  of  the  true  shep- 
herd, delivered  unto  us  during  this 
conference,  and  I  bear  testimony  to 
it.  When  I  heard  one  of  the  breth- 
ren here  speak  in  regard  to  the 
character  of  those  of  our  brethren 
who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  here  upon  the 
earth,  it  stirred  within  me  a  desire 
to  say  something  on  this  occasion, 
and  I  want  to  refer  more  especially 
to  our  president  at  the  present  time, 
because  the  Lord  revealed  to  me, 
through  most  unmistakable  terms, 
that  he  would  be  the  man  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  had 
a  desire  for  many  years  to  see  him 
come  to  the  head  of  the  Church, 
because  I  could  see  in  him  the  in- 
tegrity of  the  Prophet  Joseph;  but 
when  he  was  chosen  out  of  the 
Twelve  to  become  one  of  the  coun- 
selors to  President  Taylor,  I 
thought  my  hopes  were  blasted  and 
that  he  would  never  get  there,  be- 
cause I  had  noticed  that  when  a 
president  died,  the  counselors  re- 
turned to  their  positions  in  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
I  made  it  a  matter  of  prayer,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  on  a  good  many 
different  occasions,  that  the  Lord 
would  show  me,  and  one  day  the 


Lord  revealed  it  to  me.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  spoke  to  me  in  an  au- 
dible voice  and  said:  "When  the 
time  comes  that  he  should  stand  at 
the  head  of  the  Twelve,  he  will  be 
the  president  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 
This  was  the  testimony  that  was 
given  to  me  through  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty,  and  I  bear  it  to 
you  truthfully  before  high  heaven. 
I  know  that  he  is  the  man.  I  do  not 
say  this  because  he  is  here  to  hear 
it.  I  have  said  it  many  times  be- 
fore among  people  where  I  have 
spoken  in  different  parts  of  this 
.state,  or  to  this  people. 

We  are  here,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy, 
and  we  are  just  what  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said  we  would  be.  We  have 
become  a  great  and  mighty  people, 
and  the  people  of  the  world  are 
coming  to  us.  They  will  continue 
to  come  to  us,  and  we  will  become 
the  head  and  not  the  tail. 

May  God  bless  us,  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  bless  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  every  one  who 
has  to  take  an  active  part  in  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

A  FEARLESS  DEFENDER  OF  THE  FAITH 

Brother  Watts  was  an  older  man 
than  I  was  when  we  were  on  our 
mission  together.  I  always  found 
him  to  be  a  very  staunch  and  fear- 
less defender  of  the  faith,  and  I 
was  only  too  pleased  to  grant  his 
desire  to  say  a  few  words  at  this 
conference.  He  is  a  goo',  true 
man. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


A  MESSAGE  FROM  SENATOR  SMOOT 

I  have  received  the  following 
telegram : 

"Washington,  D.  C,  Oct.  6,  1917. 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  etc.: 

"Nothing  but  national  duty 
would  prevent  me  from  attending 
the  conference.  Am  over-worked 
but  otherwise  feeling  well.  Extend 
my  best  wishes  and  love  to  the  peo- 
ple. May  Go.d's  choicest  blessings 
attend  them  and  may  his  Holy 
Spirit  direct  his  people  in  the  fut- 
ure as  in  the  past. — Reed  Smoot." 

A  CAUTION  TO  VISITORS 

I  have  in  my  hand  a  notice,  a  lit- 
tle paper,  which  reads  as  follows : 

"Would  it  not  be  a  proper  thing 
to  caution  our  country  folks  not  to 
allow  their  daughters  to  visit  in- 
discriminately about  the  city  and 
at  the  Fort,  without  proper  escort? 
The  officers  say  many  of  them  are 
doing  so." 

I  hope  that  our  country  visitors 
will  pay  attention  to  that  caution,  it 
is  a  very  proper  caution,  in  my 
opinion. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  most 
excellent  spirit  and  the  very  fitting' 
subjects  that  have  been  dwelt  upon 
by  our  brethren  today  in  this  con- 
ference. I  am  gratified  with  the 
careful  attention  and  interest  that 
has  been  manifested  by  the  Latter- 


day  Saints  to  those  who  have  ad- 
dressed them,  and  I  do  sincerely 
hope  that  the  sentiments  that  have 
been  expressed,  instructions  that 
have  been  given  and  the  admoni- 
tion, the  counsel  and  the  advice  of 
the  brethren  and  the  doctrines 
which  have  been  promulgated  by. 
them  will  sink  deeply  into  the 
hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints ; 
and  if  such  a  thing  be  possible, 
that  the  same  may  touch  the  hearts, 
the  calloused  hearts,  the  thought- 
less hearts  and  minds  of  those  who 
are  indifferent  to  the  duties  of  men 
toward  their  fellow  men,  and  es- 
pecially those  who  are  indifferent  as 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  the 
duties  that  devolve  upon  them,  or 
should  devolve  upon  them  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church. 

God  bless  you ;  peace  and  pros- 
perity abide  with  you  in  your  out- 
going and  in  your  in-coming,  in 
your  business  and  in  the  perform- 
ance of  your  religious  duty  and  in 
every  vocation  and  avocation  of 
life  in  which  you  are  engaged,  that 
you  may  prosper  therein,  and  in  all 
things  give  thanks  to  God  and 
glorify  the  name  of  the  Giver  of 
every  good  and  perfect  gift.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  Doxology. 

The  closing  prayer  was  pro- 
nounced by  President  Joseph  Eck- 
ersley,  of  the  Wayne  stake  of  Zion, 
a^d  conference  was  adjourned  until 
Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday, 
October  7,  1917,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  presiding. 

President  Smith  announced  over- 
flow meetings  to  be  held  in  tne  as- 
sembly Hall  this  morning,  under 
direction  of  President  Seymour  B. 
Young,  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty; also  an  open  air  meeting  a* 
the  Bureau  of  Information,  under 
direction  of  Elder  Benjamin  God,- 
dard  of  the  Bureau  of  Information  ; 
and  this  afternoon,  under  direction 
of  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and 
Elder  Benjamin  Goddard,  respec- 
tively, both  for  the  accommodation 
of  people  who  could  not  find  room 
in  the  overcrowded  Tabernacle 
where  every  seat  and  all  available 
space  was  occupied. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang: 
"Hear  me,  O  Lord." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  President  of 
the  Deseret  stake  of  Zion. 

Eveline  Thomas  sang  a  sacred 
contralto  solo:  "Eye  hath  not 
seen." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

Faith,  devotion  and  good  works  of 
the  Saints  in  general — A  few  are 
filled  with  doubt  and  disbelief — ■ 
These,  like  Korihor,  follow  doc- 
trine destructive  of  faith  in  God — 
Some  observations  on  the  theory 
of  evolution — The  doctrine  of  the 
Church  contrasted — l'ow  far  we  be- 
lieve in  evolution — Tendency  of  all 
things  left  to  chance  to  dissolve,  de- 
cline and  deteriorate — All  develop- 
ment leading  from  lesser  to  greater 


things  is  the  result  of  the  intelli- 
gence of  God — The  strong  testi- 
mony of  a  noted  writer — God  is  the 
author  of  all  intelligence  and  wis- 
dom— The  speaker's  testimony  to 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

"Now  it  came  to  pass  that  there 
were  many  of  the  rising  generation 
that  could  not  understand  the  words 
of  king  Benjamin,  being  little  children 
at  the  time  he  spake  unto  his  people; 
and  they  did  not  believe  the  traditions 
of  their  fathers. 

"They  did  not  believe  what  had 
been  said  concerning  the  resurrection 
of  the  dead,  neither  did  they  believe 
concerning  the  coming  of  Christ. 

"And  now  because  of  their  unbelief 
they  could  not  understand  the  word 
of  God;  and  their  hearts  were  hard- 
ened. 

"And  they  would  not  be  baptized; 
neither  would  they  join  the  Church. 
And  they  were  a  separate  people  as 
to  their  faith,  and  remained  so  ever 
after,  even  in  their  carnal  and  sinful 
state;  for  they  would  not  call  upon 
the  Lord  their  God." 

Since  the  last  general  conference 
of  the  Church,  in  April,  I  have  vis- 
ited many  of  the  organized  stakes 
of  Zion.  I  have  been  in  Canada  on 
the  north,  and  to  the  extreme  lim- 
its of  this  state  in  the  south,  and  it  , 
affords  me  great  pleasure  and  sin- 
cere satisfaction  to  testify  before 
this  large  congregation  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  the  faith,  the  devo- 
tion and  good  works  of  the  great 
majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
wherever  I  have  been.  I  have 
found,  however,  in  all  of  these  dif- 
ferent localities  people  who  aopear 
to  lack  faith,  who  are  indifferent 
to  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  as 
taught  by  the  Church,  they  do  not 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


believe,  or  least  doubt,  that  the 
spirit  of  man  existed  before  com- 
ing to  this  world,  that  it  lives  after 
leaving  it,  or  that  there  will  be  a 
re-union  of  the  spirit  and  body  in 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead.  To 
them  this  life  is  all  there  is  of  hu- 
man existence.  In  searching  for 
the  cause  which  led  up  to  the  un- 
belief of  these  young  people  among 
the  Nephites,  to  whom  the  scrip- 
ture which  I  have  read  refers,  I 
discovered,  to  use  the  words  of 
those  who  kept  their  records,  that 
there  appeared  among  them  men 
of  cunning  device  and  flattering 
words,  teaching  doctrines  which 
were  destructive  of  faith  in  Go:l. 
Prominent  among  such  men  was 
Korihor,  from  whose  words  I  now 
wish  to  read : 

"Oh,  ye  that  are  bound  down  under 
a  foolish  and  a  vain  hope,  why  do  ye 
yoke  yourselves  with  such  foolish 
things?  Why  do  ye  look  for  a  Christ? 
For  no  man  can  know  of  any  thing 
which  is  to  come. 

"Behold,  these  things  which  ye  call 
prophecies,  which  ye  say  are  handed 
down  by  holy  prophets,  behold,  they 
are  foolish  traditions  of  your  fathers. 

"How  do  ye  know  of  their  surety? 
Behold,  ye  cannot  know  of  things 
which  ye  do  not  see;  therefore  ye  can- 
not know  that  there  shall  be  a  Christ. 

"Ye  look  forward  and  say  that  ye 
see  a  remission  of  your  sins.  But,  be- 
hold, it  is  the  effect  of  a  frenzied 
mind;  and  this  derangement  of  your 
minds  comes  because  of  the  traditions 
of  your  fathers,  which  lead  you  away 
into  a  belief  ,of  things  which  are  not 
so. 

"And  many  more  such  things  did  he 
say  unto  them,  telling  them  that  there 
could  be  no  atonement  made  for  the 
sins  of  men,  but  that  every  man  fared 
in  this  life  according  to  the  manage- 
ment of  the  creature;  therefore  every 
man  prospered  according  to  his  gen- 
ius, and  that  every  man  conquered  ac- 
cording to  his  strength:  and  whatso- 
ever a  man  did  was  no  crime. 

"And  thus  did  he  preach  unto  them, 
leading   away   the    hearts    of  many, 


causing  them  to  lift  up  their  heads  in 
their  wickedness;  *  *  *  telling 
them  that  when  a  man  was  dead,  that 
was  the  end  thereof." 

As  I  read  and  reflected  upon 
these  words,  I  thought  how  like  the 
past  the  present  is,  when  applied  to 
this  question.  Recently,  in  one  of 
the  stakes  of  Zion  which  I  visited, 
a  man  professing  great  learning, 
before  a  public  gathering,  with 
cunning  device  and  flattering 
words  declared  to  those  to  whom 
his  remarks  were  addressed  that 
their  ancestors  hung  from  the 
branches  of  the  forest  trees  by 
their  tales.  With  boldness  he  ad- 
vocated the  theory  that  man  had 
gradually  evolved,  without  con- 
scious effort,  from  the  lowest  type 
of  created  life  to  what  he  now  is, 
and  that  as  his  past  had  been  a  con- 
tinued process  of  change  so  is  his 
future  to  be. 

In  this,  I  thought,  he  is  at  least 
consistent,  for  if  man  was  not  al- 
ways what  he  is  now,  if  it  is  true 
that  he  has  gradually  come  up  from 
the  lower  order  of  created  things, 
what  changes  may  not  the  future 
ages  bring  to  him  !  I  took  occasion 
to  question  the  theory  advocated  by 
this  man,  to  point  out  what  ap- 
peared to  me  to  be  its  inconsisten- 
cies, with  the  result  that  a  request 
was  made  that  I  read  certain  books 
which  treated  the  subject  of  evo- 
lution ;  some  of  them,  it  was  said, 
were  in  very  general  use  in  our 
common  schools.  I  did  so,  with  the 
result  that  my  conclusions,  long 
since  arrived  at,  were  more  strong- 
ly confirmed  than  ever  before,  and 
my  faith  in  the  revealed  word  of 
the  Lord  strengthened,  if  that  were 
possible. 

The  doctrine  taught  in  these 
books  takes  you  into  the  realm  of 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


65 


doubt,  teaches  that  this  earth  and 
all  things  wich  are  upon  it  are  the 
result  of  chance,  it  leaves  you  be- 
wildered regarding-  the  past,  un- 
certain of  the  present,  and  without 
hope  in  the  future.  The  truth,  as 
revealed  from  heaven,  teaches  the 
plan  of  an  infinitely  wise  creator, 
designed  for  the  accomplishment 
of  a  divine  purpose. 

I  know  it  will  be  claimed  that  I 
am  not  capable  of  discussing  this 
question,  that  I  am  not  a  learned 
man,  that  I  have  no  college  degree, 
and  consequently  am  incapable  of 
rendering  intelligent  judgment.  I 
admit  that  I  have  not  passed  my 
life  behind  closed  doors,  reading 
books  written  by  uninspired  men, 
and  accepting  their  conclusions 
without  reserve.  I  have  not  passe  1 
it  in  an  effort  to  produce,  by  cross 
breeding,  a  new  species  of  guinea 
pig,  or  by  selection  and  intensive 
cultivation  a  new  variety  of  pea ; 
but  I  have  read  some  books,  have 
been  in  close  contact  with  nature, 
unspoiled  by  the  hand  of  man, 
have  been  an  observer  and  student 
of  my  surroundings,  until  I  have 
reached  conclusions  which  satisfy 
me,  and  seem  to  justify  my  faith, 
and  so  I  am,  going  to  assume  to 
tread  upon  this  ground  made  sac- 
red to  men  of  so  called  learning, 
and  express  to  this  congregation 
the  result  of  some  of  my  observa- 
tions. 

This  modern  theory  of  evolution 
suggests  that  at  a  period  in  the  past, 
so  remote  that  it  is  almost  beyond 
conception,  by  some  spontaneous 
action,  the  earth  came  into  exist- 
ence. By  degrees  life  appeared 
upon  it ;  it  gradually  changed  under 
some  natural  process  until  what  in 
the  beginning  was  a  very  inferior 
form  of  vegetable  and  animal  life 
evolved  into  what  the  world  now  is, 


with  man  representing  its  highest 
development. 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  if  this 
theory  is  admitted  it  must  logically 
follow  that  this  evolution  from  an 
inferior  condition  is  still  in  process 
of  development,  and  that  just  as 
man  at  present  has  no  association 
or  affinity  with  the  source  from 
which  he  is  said  to  have  sprung,  so 
as  the  ages  pass  he  will  be  as  unlike 
what  he  now  is,  as  he  is  now  unlike 
what  he  once  was. 

In  contrast  to  this  theory  we 
have  the  doctrine  taught  by  the 
Church  that  the  earth,  and  all  that 
is  upon  it,  were  created  by  God's 
fiat,  or  decree.  That  the  earth,  the 
vegetation,  and  all  life  were  created 
in  successive  periods,  and  lastly 
man,  in  the  image  of  God  created 
he  him,  male  and  female  created  he 
them.  The  only  created  thing 
which  was  in  the  image  of  God, 
the  only  created  thing  endowed  with 
reason,  and  in  a  degree  with  the  in- 
telligence of  the  Creator.  And  God 
gave  to  man  dominion  over  the 
fishes  of  the  sea,  the  fowls  of  the 
air,  and  every  other  created  thing. 
Because  of  transgression  a  curse 
came  upon  the  earth,  and  it  was  de- 
creed that  thorns  and  tistles  should 
be  its  spontaneous  product,  that  the 
natural  tendency  of  all  created 
things  should  be  toward  decay  and 
dissolution,  and  that  redemption 
from  these  untoward  conditions 
could  only  come  through  the  appli- 
cation of  the  intelligence  with 
which  man  had  been  endowed,  and 
the  effort  which  he  put  forth  to  sub- 
due the  earth  and  redeem  it  until 
it  should  be  restored  to  its  para- 
disiacal glory. 

I  desire  to  ask  advocates  of  this 
theory  of  evolution  without  con- 
scious effort,  to  point  me  to  a  single 
instance  where,  within  the  known 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


history  of  the  world,  any  living 
thing-  has,  without  application  of  the 
intelligent  effort  of  man,  which  is 
the  application  of  the  intelligence 
of  God,  changed  from  what  it  was 
to  somthing  else,  where  a  thing  has 
come  up  from  an  inferior  to  a  su- 
perior condition.  On  the  other 
hand  my  own  observation  has 
taught  me  that  the  moment  the 
most  highly  developed  thing  is 
left  to  itself,  left  to  chance,  with- 
out the  intelligent  application  of  the 
intelligence  of  man,  it  immediately 
reverts  from  what  it  is  to  an  infe- 
rior condition,  just  as  the  Lord  de- 
creed it  should. 

I  am  a  believer  in  evolution.  I 
can  very  readily  believe  that  my 
ancestors  may  have  lived  in  a  cave 
or  in  the  rudest  kind  of  habita- 
tion, whereas,  today  they  live  in 
palaces.  I  can  very  readily  under- 
stand that  these  primitive,  simple 
homes  may  have  been  warmed  and 
lighted  by  fire  that  was  produced 
by  the  rubbing  together  of  sticks, 
where  today  it  is  produced  by  the 
application  of  those  scientific  means 
which  have  been  revealed  to  man 
through  the  Spirit  of  God  by  which 
they  have  been  enabled  to  apply  to 
their  convenience  the  elements  with 
which  they  are  surrounded.  I  can 
very  readily  believe  that  whereas 
they  cultivated  the  earth  with  the 
most  primitive  agricultural  imple- 
ments and  fought  their  battles  with 
weapons  made  of  stone,  they  now 
cultivate  the  earth  by  the  applica- 
tion of  the  most  scientific  methods 
and  that  their  battles  are  fought 
by  processes  unthought  of  an:l  un- 
known to  primitive  man.  I  can 
readily  understand  that  they  gath- 
ered from  the  beds  of  the  rivers 
and  chisled  from  the  rock  the  na- 
tive metal  which  they  hammered 
into  ornaments  and  used  perhaps 


as  circulating  medium,  whereas 
now  the  ores  are  mined  and  the 
metals  extracted  by  the  most  intri- 
cate chemical  process.  In  this  I  see 
the  most  marvelous  progress,  the 
most  wonderful  evolution ;  but  I  see 
in  it  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
not  the  result  of  chance,  but  the  de- 
velopment of  the  mind  of  man, 
which  is  after  the  order  of  the  mind 
of  God;  that,  as  he  grew,  his  ob- 
servation taught  him  that  there 
were  better  ways  of  doing  things 
than  the  way  in  which  he  was  doing 
them,  and  that  as  he  reflected  and 
thought  and  studied,  God  gave  him 
wisdom  to  go  on  and  to  thus  per- 
fect the  primitive  thought  which  he 
originally  had.  I  have  seen  the 
most  beautiful  things  in  the  vege- 
table world  that  the  hand  of  man 
and  the  wisdom  of  all  these  ages 
has  created,  left  to  itself  "for  a 
short  time,  left  to  chance,  almost 
immediately  revert  to  wild  condi- 
tion. I  have  seen  horses  and  cattle 
bred  up  to  the  very  highest  stand- 
ard left  only  for  a  short  period  of 
time  to  themselves,  become  degen- 
erated, illustrating  just  what  God's 
word  declared,  that  the  natural  ten- 
dency of  all  that  pertains  to  this 
earth  is  towards  decline,  towards 
'dissolution,  not  to  go  on  and  on 
without  intelligent  effort  until  per- 
fection is  reached.  But  one  of  these 
learned  men  said  to  me  when  I  il- 
lustrated my  though  in  this  way, 
"Why,  that  is  natural,  that  is  be- 
cause of  environment ;  those  horses 
degenerated  and  became  mustangs 
because  that  was  the  very  best  con- 
dition that  they  could  be  in  to  adapt 
themselves  to  their  surroundings." 
That  may  be  true,  but  the  argument 
does  not  hold  good,  because  I  took 
those  very  same  horses,  eating  the 
same  grass,  drinking  the  same 
water,  exposed  to  the  same  storm 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


67 


and  sunshine,  and  by  the  applica- 
tion of  my  own  intelligence,  my 
own  judgment,  I  began  to  bring 
them  back  to  the  condition  in  which 
they  formerly  were,  but  that  did  not 
occur  to  those  which  man  had  neg- 
lected and  to  which  he  had  given 
no  attention. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
have  reached  this  conclusion,  and 
that  is  the  thought  which  I  desire 
to  leave  in  your  minds,  that  what- 
ever of  development  there  is  in  the 
world,  whatever  of  evolution  has 
come,  leading  from  lesser  to 
greater  things,  from  worse  to  better 
conditions,  are  the  results  of  the  in- 
telligence of  God,  as  it  is  repre- 
sented in  the  only  created  thing  that 
stands  in  his  image  in  the  world. 

'  Desiring  at  one  time  in  my  life  to 
know  something  of  the  rocks,  of 
the  earth  upon  which  we  live,  as 
its  conditions  have  been  determined 
by  scientific  research,  I  went  to  a 
book  store  and  purchased  this  little 
book,  "Steele's  Series  in  the  Na- 
tural Sciences,  Geology,"  a  work 
written  by  J.  Dorman  Steele,  au- 
thor of  works  in  chemistry,  physics, 
zoology,  botany,  astronomy,  physi- 
ology and  geology,  a  simple  exposi- 
tion of  the  scientific  truths  known 
to  the  world  at  that  time,  a  book 
which  has  been  used  in  thousands 
of  schools,  a  book  with  which  many 
of  my  hearers  will  be  more  familiar 
than  I,  because  I  have  never  stud- 
ied it  under  the  direction  of  a 
teacher,  but  I  read  and  studied  it 
with  very  great  interest  by  myself. 
I  did  not  expect  at  the  conclusion 
to  find  what  I  discovered.  I  shall 
never  forget  the  impression  that  the 
words  of  this  man  made  upon  my 
mind  in  his  conclusion  of  this  little 
work,  and  I  want  to  read  them  to 
you  because  they  are  entitled  to 
weight,  coming  as  they  do  from  a 


man  of  profound  thought  and  great 
learning : 

"We  have  traced  in  the  dim  light  of 
the  past  the  history  of  our  earth  and 
its  inhabitants.  Everywhere  we  have 
found  a  Divine  Hand  shaping  and 
moulding  to  accomplish  a  Divine 
ideal.  'In  the  beginning  God.'  We 
can  add  nothing  to  the  old  Hebrew 
declaration.  We  have  gone  back  to 
the  origin  of  man,  and  there,  too,  we 
have  rested  on  that  sublime  truth,  'In 
the  beginning  God.'  We  have  winged 
our  imagination  backward  to  the  time 
when  our  earth  was  'without  form 
and  void,'  and  here  again  we  have  felt 
the  force  of  that  same  statement,  'In 
the  beginning  God.' 

"Was  man  created  directly  by  God's 
fiat,  ,or  by  some  intermediate  process 
of  secondary  causes?  'Alas  for  the 
impotence  of  science  and  the  scope  of 
our  finite  intelligence!'  We  bring  the 
subtlest  agencies  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  our  designs — heat,  light,  elec- 
tricity—  but  when  we  seek  to  develop 
from  them  even  the  intangible  forces 
which  clothe  the  decaying  rock  with 
verdure,  or  mantle  the  stagnant  pool 
with  slime,  failure  inevitably  waits  up- 
on us.  In  vain  do  we  seek  to  as- 
sociate vital  manifestation  with  elec- 
trical action,  we  may  resolve  the  vital 
organism  into  cells  and  granules  and 
nuclei,  but  the  life  eludes  our  proud- 
est philosophy.  If,  under  certain 
conditions,  inorganic  matter  assumes 
organic  form,  those  conditions  and 
the  laws  which  govern  them  are  alike 
unknown  to  us.  And  so  we  pause  on 
the  threshold  of  created  life,  and, 
standing  reverently  aside,  lay  humbly 
down  our  little  wisdom  as  we  recog- 
nize the  unfathomable  greatness  of 
the  one  all-wise  Creator." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
thought  which  I  wish  to  leave  with 
you  is  this,  in  your  search  after 
knowledge,  in  your  desire  to  be- 
come profound,  in  your  study  of 
philosophy,  do  not  lose  sight  of  this 
one  thought  that  God,  the  Creator 
of  heaven  and  earth  is  the  author  of 
intelligence  and  all  the  light,  and 
knowledge,  and  wisdom  which  has 
come  to  man  or  which  will  ever 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


come  to  him  emanates  from  that 
source.  Do  not  allow  yourselves, 
because  of  the  words  of  men,  of 
cunning  device  and  flattering  words 
— they  are  here  just  as  they  were 
among  the  Nephites,  to  delude  you 
and  lead  you  away  from  the  eternal 
truth,  that  we  must  recognize  God 
our  Father,  who  is  the  author  of 
all  things,  the  Creator  of  heaven 
and  earth,  to  whom  all  men  owe 
.deference,  and  allegiance,  and 
service,  whether  they  render  it  or 
not.  Do  not  deny  the  atonement 
wrought  out  by  his  only  begotten 
son.  Do  not  become  obscessed  with 
the  thought  that  this  life  is  all  there 
is  to  human  existence,  because  it 
is  a  fallacy.  I  bear  witness  of  it 
to  you  in  all  humility.  I  have  tried 
to  understand,  I  have  studied,  I 
have  sought  the  Lord  from  my 
youth  until  the  present  time  when  1 
am  growing  old.  I  find  from  my 
own  observation,  my  own  study, 
and  the  testimony  which  God  has 
given  me,  the  eternal  truth  of 
these  things  growing  stronger  and 
stronger,  if  that  were  possible.  He 
has  restored  the  truth  to  the  earth 
through  the  agency  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith ;  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  is  here;  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  and  has  in  it 
everlasting  life  to  all  of  those  who 
believe  and  obey. 

May  the  Lord  preserve  us  from 
delusions  which  are  abroad  in  the 
land,  fix  faith  firmly  in  our  hearts 
that  we  may  hold  fast  to  the  iron 
rod  which  is  the  word  of  God,  and 
it  will  bear  us  safely  through,  until 
we  find  our  way  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  our  Creator,  and  then  we 
will  understand.  Yes,  there  has 
been  evolution,  evolution  will  con- 
tinue until  we  shall  become  like  him, 
knowing  as  we  are  known,  seeing 
as  we  are  seen,  and  comprehending 


that  in  all  these  wonderful  works 
that  are  around  us,  the  wisdom  of 
God  is  manifest  and  that  the  laws 
by  which  they  have  been  ac- 
complished are  simple,  and  will  be 
simple  to  us  when  we  come  to  un- 
derstand them. 

The  Lord  preserve  us  all  in  the 
truth,  keep  us  from  the  delusive 
snares  of  the  adversary,  I  pray 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  bass  solo  entitled :  "Two  men 
went  up  into  the  Temple  to  Pray," 
was  sung  by  Everard  McMurrin. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

The  things  of  God  understood  by  the 
Spirit  of  God — The  question  of  the 
origin  of  man — The  glory  of  God  is 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man — Theories  of 
men  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  con- 
trasted—  Scientific  theories,  so 
called,  on  the  origin  of  man,  have  no 
more  right  to  a  place  in  the  school 
room  than  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel, nor  half  as  much — Discoveries 
of  modern  times  due  to  the  inspira- 
tion of  God — Protest  against  poi- 
soning the  youth  with  false  doc- 
trines on  the  origin  ,of  life. 

"But  as  it  is  writen,  Eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  en- 
tered into  the  heart  ,of  man,  the  things 
which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him. 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto 
us  by  his  Spirit:  for  the  Spirit  search- 
eth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of 
God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things 
of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God. 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the 
spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit 
which  is  of  God;  that  we  might  know 
the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us 
of  God. 

"Which  things  also  we  speak,  not  in 
the  words  which  man's  wisdom  teach- 
eth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost  teach- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


69 


eth;  comparing  spiritual  things  with 
spiritual"  (I  Cor.  2:9-13). 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
suppose  I  also  belong  to  that  class 
of  individuals  to  which  Brother 
Ivins  belongs,  and  perhaps  it  will 
be  considered,  by  those  who  think 
they  know,  that  I  also  am  incapable 
of  expressing  intelligent  thought  in 
regard  to  that  same  subject,  the 
origin  of  man.  However,  I  have 
great  confidence  in  the  word  of  the 
Lord  and  I  accept,  without  reserva- 
tion, these  passages  of  scripture 
which  I  have  read.  I  have  also  con- 
cluded that  one  can  learn  more  and 
get  nearer  to  the  truth  by  heeding 
the  testimony  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  and  hearkening  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  than 
one  can  possibly  clo  by  following 
the  commandments  and  the  teach- 
ings of  men  who  have  received  their 
understanding  and  their  learning  in 
the  spirit  and  in  the  wisdom  of 
man.  Therefore,  I  put  my  trust  in 
the  Lord,  and  what  I  speak  I  be- 
lieve I  speak  bv  the  Spirit  of  God, 
comparing  spiritual  things  with 
spiritual.  I  believe  that  man  is  the 
offspring  of  God,  that  he  was  cre- 
ated in  the  beginning  in  the  image 
of  God  and  is  in  very  deed  his  son, 
so  far.  at  least,  as  the  spirit  is  con- 
cerned. I  wish  to  read  in  connec- 
tion with  this  which  I  have  iust 
read,  a  few  verses  from  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price  on  this  same  subject : 

"And  behold,  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
was  upon  Moses,  so  that  Moses  stood 
in  the  presence  of  God,  and  talked 
with  him  face  to  face.  And  the  Lord 
God  said  unto  Moses:  For  mine  own 
purpose  have  I  made  these  things. 
Here  is  wisdom,  and  it  remaineth  in 
me. 

"And  by  the  word  of  my  power, 
have  I  created  them,  which  is  mine 
Only  Begotten  Son.  who  is  full  of 
grace  and  truth. 


"And  worlds  without  number  have 
I  created;  and  I  also  created  them 
for  mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the 
Son  I  created  them,  which  is  mine 
Only  Begotten. 

"And  the  first  man  ,of  all  men  have 
I  called  Adam,  which  is  many. 

"But  only  an  account  of  this  earth, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof,  give  I 
unto  you.  For  behold,  there  are  many 
worlds  that  have  passed  away  by  the 
word  of  my  power.  And  there  are 
many  that  now  stand,  and  innumer- 
able are  they  unto  man;  but  all  things 
are  numbered  unto  me,  for  they  are 
mine  and  I  know  them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses 
spake  unto  the  Lord,  saying:  Be  mer- 
ciful unto  thy  servant,  0  God,  and  tell 
me  concerning  this  earth,  and  the  in- 
habitants thereof,  and  also  the  heav- 
ens, and  then  thy  servant  will  be  con- 
tent. 

"And  the  Lord  God  spake  unto 
Moses,  saying:  The  heavens,  they  are 
many,  and  they  cannot  be  numbered 
unto  man;  but  they  are  numbered  unto 
me,  for  they  are  mine. 

"And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away, 
and  the  heavens  thereof,  even  so  shall 
another  come  and  there  is  no  end  to 
my  works,  neither  to  my  words." 

From  this  we  learn  that  there  has 
never  been  a  time  when  worlds 
were  not  created  and  when  heavens 
did  not  exist.  And,  furthermore, 
that  the  creation  of  heavens  and 
earths  by  our  eternal  Father  from 
the  beginning,  whatever  that  may 
mean,  and  throughout  eternity,  has 
been  and  is  for  the  one  grand  pur- 
pose which  is  explained  in  the  next 
verse  following  this  which  I  have 
just  read :  "For  behold,  this  is  my 
work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
r>ass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man." 

There  never  was  a  time  when 
there  was  not  a  world ;  there  never 
was  a  time  when  that  world  was  not 
peopled  with  beings  who  were  cre- 
ated in  the  image  of  God — his  chil- 
dren fashioned  after  his  own  like- 
ness.  Life  is  not  spontaneous  upon 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


this  earth.  It  did  not  have  its  origin 
here ;  it  was  planted  here  in  its 
varied  forms.  This  idea  that  every- 
thing commenced  from  a  small  be- 
ginning, from  the  scum  upon  the 
surface  of  the  sea,  and  has  grad- 
ually developed  until  all  forms  of 
life,  the  beasts  of  the  field,  the 
fowls  of  the  air,  the  fishes  of  the 
sea,  and  the  plants  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth,  have  all  sprung  from 
that  one  source,  is  a  falsehood  abso- 
lutely. There  is  no  truth  in  it,  for 
God  has  given  us  his  word  by  which 
we  may  know,  and  all  who  are  led 
by  the  Spirit  of  God  can  under- 
stand through  that  Holy  Spirit,  the 
truth  of  these  things.  We  know, 
for  our  Father  in  heaven  has  re- 
vealed these  things  unto  us,  that 
life  has  always  existed.  Tt  existed 
long  before  it  was  planted  here,  and 
this  earth,  we  understand,  is  pass- 
ing through  a  probation  such  as 
other  worlds  have  passed  through, 
and  when  it  completes  its  earthly 
mission  and  fills  the  measure  of  its 
present  creation,  for  it  keeps  the 
law  that  was  given  to  it,  it  shall  be 
sanctified  and  exalted.  When  that 
time  comes  it  will  be  removed  out 
of  its  present  place  as  other  worlds 
have  been  removed  when  they  have 
filled  the  measure  of  their  creation, 
and  then  another  world  will  come 
and  take  its  place.  This  procession 
will  sro  on,  worlds  without  end  ;  so 
I  understand  from  the  reading  of 
these  scriptures. 

How  foolish,  how  narrow,  how 
contemptible  it  is  for  men  profess- 
ing to  be  men  of  intelligence  and 
possessing  scientific  knowledge  and 
wisdom,  to  declare  that  all  life  upon 
this  earth  is  spontaneous,  and  to 
confess  that  they  know  nothing  of 
any  life  upon  any  other  world. 
Moreover,  to  declare  that  the  life 
here  has  all  developed    from  the 


same  single,  simple  source.  It  is 
true  that  all  life  does  come  from 
the  same  source,  but  that  is  not  the 
scum  of  the  sea,  a  jellyfish  or  a 
pollywog.  God,  our  Father,  is  the 
creator  of  life  and  he  placed  life  on 
this  earth  in  varied  forms,  and  also 
on  other  worlds.  He  will  continue 
his  work  on  this  earth  and  upon 
other  planets,  or  worlds,  which  will 
take  the  place  of  this  earth  when  it 
has  been  exalted  and  gone  on  to  its 
celestial  glory.  He  will  continue 
to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes  by 
peopling  worlds  and  bringing  to 
nass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  his  children.  Now  I  think 
this  is  a  noble  thought.  I  think  it 
is  something  that  will  enlighten  th° 
minds  of  men  and  buoy  them  up.  Tt 
will  strengthen  our  faith  and  give 
us  encouragement  to  continue  on  in 
well  doing,  because  it  gives  us  hone 
of  better  things,  even  immortality 
and  eternal  life  as  the  sons  an  1 
^daughters  of  God.  But  this  false 
theory,  which  prevails  in  the  world 
so  extensively,  is  one  that  is  debas- 
ing and  not  ennobling  nor  uplifting. 

Here  is  another  passage  of  scrip- 
ture I  wish  to  read  from  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  section  76, 
known  as  tbe  vision — a  vision  given 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Ri^don 
on  the  16th  day  of  February,  1832 : 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the 
Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  received  of  his  fulness;  and  saw 
the  holy  angels,  and  they  who  are 
sanctified  before  his  throne,  worship- 
ing God,  and  the  Lamb,  who  worship 
him  for  ever  and  ever.  And  now. 
after  the  manv  testimonies  which  have 
been  given  of  him,  this  is  the  testi- 
mony last  of  all,  which  we  give  of 
him,  that  he  lives:  for  we  saw  him. 
even  on  the  right  hand  of  God.  and 
we  heard  the  voice  bearing  record 
that  he  is  the  Onlv  Begotten  of  the 
Father — That  by  him  and  through 
him,  and  of  him  the  worlds  are  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


71 


were  created,  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  . daugh- 
ters unto  God." 

This  they  beheld  in  vision,  and  it 
was  revealed  unto  them  that  all  man- 
kind upon  the  face  of  this  earth  and 
other  worlds  are  the  offspring-  of 
God  in  the  .spirit,  but  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  his  Only  Begotten  Son  in 
the  flesh.  Now,  this  to  me  is  con- 
sistent, it  is  reasonable;  it  is  logical 
and  it  is  true.  The  first  life  created 
for  this  world  was  not  placed  upon 
it  at  the  time  it  was  created.  Let 
me  read  again ;  this  same  thought 
is  found  in  the  account  in  Genesis 
in  the  Bible,  but  not  ,so  clearly  ex- 
pressed as  it  is  here,  therefore,  I 
will  read  from  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price : 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you, 
that  these  are  the  generations  of  the 
heaven  and  of  the  earth,  when  they 
were  created,  in  the  day  that  I,  the 
Lord  God,  made  the  heaven  and  the 
earth. 

"And  every  plant  of  the  field  before 
it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb  of 
the  field  before  it  grew.  For  I,  the 
Lord  God,  created  all  things,  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  spiritually,  before  they 
were  naturally  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  For  I,  the  Lord  God,  had  not 
caused  it  to  rain  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  And  I,  the  Lord  God,  had 
created  all  the  children  of  men;  and 
not  yet  a  man  to  till  the  ground;  for  in 
heaven  created  I  them;  and  there  was 
not  yet  flesh  upon  the  earth,  neither  in 
the  water,  neither  in  the  air." 

Now,  I  could  continue  to  read — I 
shall  not  take  the  time — and  show 
you  that  the  creation  that  was  made 
spiritually  was  in  the  same  likeness 
of  the  creation  that  was  later  made 
temporally,  when  man,  beast  and 
plant  were  placed  upon  the  earth. 
All  were  created  before  the  founda- 
tion of  this  world  was  prepare' — 
created  spiritually— and  existed  in 
the  kingdom  of  God.     When  the 


earth  was  formed  and  ready  to  re- 
ceive them  they  were  clothed  with 
bodies  that  were  physical  and  thus 
not  only  man,  but  the  animals  and 
the  plants  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  became  living  souls,  because 
they  were  composed  of  the  spirit 
and  the  body  combined.  I  like  to 
believe  this.  1  know  it  is  true.  It 
appeals  to  my  reason,  it  appeals  to 
my  spirit,  I  accept  it  as  the  truth 
which  God  has  revealed,  and  I  re- 
joice in  the  knowledge  that  I  have 
received  regarding  it.  There  is  no 
theory  in  the  world  that  can  com- 
pare with  it.  These  ideas  of  men, 
their  foolish  doctrines  regarding 
the  origin  of  life  which  are  taught 
in  many  of  the  schools  and  against 
our  protest  very  largely — and  I  am 
sorry  to  say,  in  too  many  cases 
without  our  protest,  for  I  believe 
we  ought  to  protest  against  these 
things — constitute  the  wisdom  of 
uninspired  men  anrl  must  perish.  I 
do  not  believe  that  the  falsely  called 
scientific  theory  of  man's  origin  has 
any  more  right  to  a  place  in  the 
public  schools  than  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ  have — and  not  half  as 
much ! 

Now,  it  may  be  true,  and  it  is 
true,  that  Abraham  as  he  sat  in  his 
tent,  coukl  not  receive  the  news 
of  the  world  published  in  the  daily 
press  and  have  it  delivered  to  him 
at  his  door ;  he  could  not  push  a 
button  and  turn  on  the  electric  light, 
but  is  that  saying  that  Abraham 
was  less  intelligent  than  men  are 
who  dwell  on  the  earth  today?  The 
truth  of  the  matter  is  that  these 
things  were  not  intended  for  Abra- 
ham's day,  and  they  would  not  be 
known  and  utilized  today  if  the 
Lord  had  not  revealed  them  to  men 
and  had  not  inspired  men  to  make 
the  discoveries  which    have  been 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


made,  by  which  we  are  able  to  re- 
ceive the  news  as  it  is  gathered 
from  the  telegraph  and  from  wire- 
less telegraphy  and  have  it  printed 
by  machinery  which  is  run  by  elec- 
tricity. We  can  sit  in  our  com- 
fortable homes  and  turn  on  the 
light  by  pressing  a  button ;  we  can 
read  the  public  prints,  and  we  will 
know  what  is  going  on  today  in  all 
the  world ;  but  does  that  prove 
that  we  today  are  more  intelligent, 
or  that  we  have  greater  under- 
standing than  Abraham,  than 
Moses,  than  Elijah,  or  any  of 
the  prophets  of  those  early  times, 
pertaining  to  those  things  which 
are  most  essential  to  the  salvation 
of  mankind?  Not  by  any  means  !  I 
read  in  the  scriptures,  if  I  under- 
stand them  correctly,  that  many  of 
the  prophets  of  old  had  opened  to 
their  vision  scenes  pertaining  to  the 
history  of  the  children  of  men  down 
to  the  end  of  time,  and  the  Lord 
revealed  unto  them  the  conditions 
that  would  prevail  in  the  earth  in 
this  generation.  They  saw,  if  I  un- 
derstand the  matter  correctly,  our 
automobiles,  our  railroad  trains ; 
they  saw,  very  probably,  the  com- 
munication that  was  taking  place 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  so  won- 
derfully by  wireless  communica- 
tion, or  by  means  of  wires  by  which 
news  is  conveyed.  They  saw,  I  be- 
lieve, the  airplanes  flying  in  the 
midst  of  the  heavens,  because  we 
can  read  in  the  prophecies  of  these 
ancient  scriptures  many  things  that 
indicate  that  these  things  were  re- 
vealed unto  those  ancient  prophets. 
But  these  wonderful  discoveries  and 
conveniences  were  not  intended  for 
their  day.  They  could  not  sit  in  an 
automobile  and  travel  from  city  to 
city,  or  in  a  railroad  train,  and  ride 
comfortably,  nor  could  they  ride 
in  a  modern  carriage    drawn  by 


horses,  but  upon  the  back  of  an  ass 
would  they  journey  from  place  to 
place,  or  walking  by  the  side  of 
their  beast  of  burden  they  would 
travel  a  few  miles  each  day  and  call 
it  a  day's  journey. 

And  yet  the  prophets  saw  the 
time  in  the  latter  days  when  an 
ensign  should  be  lifted  up  that  those 
gathering  to  Zion  should  come  with 
speed  swiftly;  they  should  not  be 
weary,  neither  should  they  be  under 
the  necessity  of  slumber,  nor  the 
loosing  of  their  girdle  or  the  shoes 
from  off  their  feet.  But  these  ad- 
vantages were  not  for  their  times 
and  the  customs  and  conditions 
which  prevail  now  were  held  in  re- 
serve, not  because  we  are  any  better 
or  more  worthy  than  the  Saints  of 
former  tim.es,  nor  because  we  have 
greater  intelligence,  but  because  we 
are  living  in  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times,  when  the 
Lord  is  gathering  all  things  in  one 
and  preparing  the  earth  for  the 
»reat  millennial  reign,  and,  it  is 
necessary  now  that  all  these  dis- 
coveries, these  wonderful  inven- 
tions and  conveniences  should  be 
made  known  to  the  children  of  men. 

Those  who  make  these  discov- 
eries are  inspired  of  God  or  they 
would  never  make  them.  The  Lord 
gave  inspiration  to  Edison,  to 
Franklin,  to  Morse,  to  Whitney  and 
to  all  of  the  inventors  and  discov- 
erers, and  through  their  inspiration 
they  obtained  the  necessary  knowl- 
edge and  were  able  to  manufacture 
and  invent  as  they  have  done  for 
the  benefit  of  the  world.  Without 
the  help  of  the  Lord  they  would 
have  been  just  as  helpless  as  the 
people  were  in  other  ages.  Abra- 
ham knew  far  more  in  his  day  re- 
garding the  planets  and  the  great 
fixed  stars  out  in  space  than  the 
greatest  astronomer  knows  today. 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


73 


How  did  he  get  his  knowledge? 
Not  through  the  telescope ;  not 
through  the  spectroscope ;  but 
through  the  opening  of  his  vision 
by  the  Spirit  of  God.  He  was 
taught  by  the  Lord  himself  who  re- 
vealed unto  him  all  these  things  and 
explained  the  great  heavenly  bodies 
and  their  workings,  also  the  earth, 
in  a  manner  that  never  has  been  ap- 
proached and  cannot  be  approached 
by  the  scientific  man  with  all  his 
instruments  to  aid  him  and  inspired 
by  worldly  learning,  and  don't  yon 
forget  it !  These  ancient  seers  and 
saints  were  just  as  intelligent  as  we 
are.  They  were  just  as  full  of  in- 
spiration. They  had  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  guide  them  and  were 
directed  by  it.  They  hearkened 
unto  those  things  which  God  taught 
and  they  understood  the  truth  and 
knew  far  more  of  that  which  is  es- 
sential, in  a  minute,  than  some  of 
these  so-called  scientists,  who  de- 
clare that  life  is  spontaneous  and 
commenced  upon  this  earth,  know 
in  a  year. 

Now  this  is  my  testimony.  They 
may  say  I  am  incompetent.  What 
do  I  care,  as  long  as  I  know  I  have 
the  truth,  as  long  as  I  know  that 
God  has  revealed  unto  me  that  these 
things  which  I  have  declared  are 
true!  What  do  I  care  what  they 
teach,  so  far  as  my  knowledge  is 
concerned?  I  do  care  so  far  as  the 
poisoning  of  the  minds  of  the  youth 
of  Israel  is  concerned,  and  I  protest 
against  it.  I  have  protested  from 
this  stand,  and  I  expect  to  continue 
to  protest,  whether  it  does  any  good 
or  not,  at  least  with  the  desire  to 
stir  up  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  and 
I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  it  is  your  duty  to 
seek  for  the  light  and  the  truth 
and  the  wisdom  and  the  inspiration 
that  come  through  contact  with  the 


Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  you  may 
understand  and  know  the  things 
pertaining  to  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  see  things  spiritually  and  com- 
pare spiritual  things  with  spiritual. 
By  so  doing  we  may*  understand  all 
things  which  our  Father  in  heaven 
has  reserved  for  those  who  obey 
him. 

May  God  bless  you,  and  all  Israel 
and  help  us  to  walk  in  the  light  and 
seek  the  knowledge  that  we  may 
lay  a  foundation  in  truth  which 
cannot  be  overturned  by  the  follies 
and  theories  of  men,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 

Three  practical  sermons — Save  enough 
wheat  for  food  and  seed — Avoid 
speculators  and  invest  your  surplus 
in  Liberty  Bonds — Congregational 
singing,  and  selecting  suitable 
songs. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this 
conference  more,  I  think,  than  any 
previous  conference  that  I  have 
ever  attended.  There  are  two  or 
three  items  that  I  would  like  to 
briefly  touch  upon. 

We  have  been  blessed  with  seed 
time  and  harvest  and  the  earth  has 
yielded  in  rich  abundance,  which  is 
now  being  gathered  by  the  farmers 
of  our  land.  The  Government  has 
fixed  the  price  at  which  wheat  shall 
be  sold.  The  Government  has  also 
issued  instructions  that  no  great 
amount  of  wheat  shall  he  stored  to 
be  held  for  future  use.  But  I  be- 
lieve it  is  the  part  of  wisdom  that 
our  people  should  be  counseled  that 
they  .should  not  dispose  of  all  the 
wheat  they  have,  but  save  at  least 
enough  for  seed  for  the  fall  and 
spring  planting  and  also  sufficient 
quantity  for  bread,  at  least  until  an- 
other harvest.    If  we  are  not  care- 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ful,  pretty  much  all  of  the  wheat 
that  we  have  raised  will  be  shipped 
out  of  the  country,  and  before  next 
fall  we  will  probably  be  importing 
flour  from  Minneapolis — if  we  can 
get  it.  So,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, see  to  it  that  you  retain  enough 
of  the  wheat  you  have  raised,  for 
seed,  and  for  food,  that  not  only 
you  yourselves  may  be  fed  by  it, 
but  that  you  may  have  sufficient  to 
feed  the  communities  in  which  you 
reside ;  so  that  if  you  have  an  extra 
loaf  or  an  extra  pound  or  two  of 
wheat  more  than  you  yourselves 
need,  it  will  provide  food  for  the 
poor,  or  for  people  who  have  to  buy 
from  you,  and  I  feel  sure  the  Gov- 
ernment would  not  wish  you  to  do 
otherwise  than  to  care  for  those  of 
your  own  household  and  of  your 
own  community.  Probably  that  will 
do  for  one  sermon. 

One  other  point.  People  this 
year,  in  every  activity,  whether  on 
the  farm  or  the  ranch,  in  sheep  or 
cattle  or  who  are  merchandising, 
have  been  blessed  with  unexampled 
prosperity  in  a  temporal  way. 
Brother  George  Albert  Smith  called 
attention  to  that  fact  last  night  in 
the  priesthood  .meeting,  and  very 
wisely  advised  the  people  to  take 
care  of  what  the  Lord  is  now  giving 
them,  that  which  he  is  putting  into 
their  hands,  and  not  allow  it  to  be 
wasted  in  foolish  speculations.  He 
called  attention  to  the  fact  that 
speculators  would  be  after  you  in 
great  number  with  every  sort  of 
scheme  to  allure  you  to  investing 
money  whereby  you  are  sure  to  get 
rich  quick.  The  oil  man  will  show 
vou  where  there  are  great  fortunes 
in  oil,  and  the  coal  man  will  make 
you  rich  from  coal,  and  the  rubber 
man  has  got  fortunes  for  you  in 
rubber,  if  you  will  only  listen  to 
him,  and  the  gas  man  can  prove 


there  are  millions  in  natural  gas ; 
and  it  is  a  fact  that  that  kind  of  a 
promoter  usually  has  a  good  flow 
of  natural  gas  himself.  So  there 
are  fortunes  for  you  everywhere  if 
you  will  only  invest  in  these  wild 
schemes,  part  with  your  money  and 
get  rich  quickly.  We  read  that  the 
fellow  who  parts  quickly  with  his 
money  is  not  very  wise.  'The  fool 
and  his  money  do  not  stick  together 
very  long;  they  are  soon  parted, 
and  all  these  promoters,  so  many 
of  them  coming  around  now  in  this 
year  of  your  greatest  prosperity, 
to  separate  you  from  your  money. 
Well,  don't  you  let  them  do  it.  And 
you  sisters  take  my  advice — as  the 
phrase  is,  "take  it  from  me" — don't 
allow  your  husbands  to  separate 
themselves  from  their  money  and 
put  it  into  something  they  don't 
know  anything  about.  But  if  you 
have  a  little  surplus  money — and 
you  will  have  it  with  the  prices  now 
paid  for  grain  and  hay  and  potatoes 
and  sheep  and  cattle  and  wool,  and 
for  all  products  of  the  soil,  you  will 
have  considerable  surplus — let  me 
tell  you  what  to  do  with  it.  If  you 
have  $100  surplus,  buy  a  Liberty 
Bond.  You  can't  lose  on  that.  That 
is  good  for  all  time,  and  if  you 
want  to  go  to  a  bank  you  can  bor- 
row money  on  it  more  than  you  can 
in  proportion  on  your  own  farm, 
because  on  your  farms  the  insur- 
ance companies  and  other  loaning 
companies,  including  the  banks,  will 
not  loan  more  than  about  50  per 
cent,  of  the  land's  value.  But  if 
you  have  a  little  surplus  money  and 
put  it  into  Liberty  Bonds,  the  banks 
will  advance  you  a  much  larger  per- 
centage than  they  will  on  your  land. 
So  I  repeat  the  good  words  of  ad- 
vice offered  by  Elder  George  Albert 
Smith  last  night.  Don't  allow  these 
men  to  separate  you    from  your 


BISHOP  CHARLES  IV.  NIRLEY. 


75 


money.  Hang  on  to  it.  Put  it  into 
something-  that  you  know  will  do 
you  some  good.  Put  it  into  some- 
thing that  you  yourselves  know 
something  about.  That  is  another 
sermon. 

Now  just  one  minute  more.  I 
would  like  to  encourage  the  idea  in 
our  wards  and  stakes  of  this 
Church,  and  also  outside  of  the 
Church,  of  that  which  is  being  en- 
couraged in  the  east  very  exten- 
sively, and  that  is  community  sing- 
ing, congregational  singing.  I  do 
not  object  to  solos.  We  had  some 
here  this  morning — never  any  bet- 
ter anywhere  in  the  world.  They 
were  very  fine.  I  love  to  hear  them. 
But  solos  may  be  overdone.  As  a 
rule  people  love  to  sing.  There  is 
something  in  the  spirit  of  song 
when  you  can  get  the  people  to  join 
in  it,  even  though  some  of  us  can't 
sing  so  well,  that  gives  forth  an  in- 
spiration which  cannot  be  otherwise 
found.  When  we  all  sing  together 
there  is  a  spirit,  an  influence  and 
a  power— an  inspirational  power — 
that  goes  with  it,  that  fires  the  soul 
in  a  way  that  it  can't  otherwise  be 
touched  or  fired.  So  this  spirit  of 
comradeship,  which  the  war  is  very 
largely  responsible  for  in  the  east, 
has  taken  hold  of  the  people,  and 
they  are  getting  together  all  classes 
of  nationalities,  blending  together 
their  voices  and  singing  patriotic 
songs  and  other  songs. 

Especially  in  our  congregations 
of  the  Saints,  we  .should  have  more 
of  congregational  singing.  We 
should  bring  our  hymn  books  to 
meeting  with  us  and  then  sing,  have 
everybody  sing,  and  .everybody  will 
feel  the  better  for  it.  And  let  me 
advise  our  leaders  of  choirs — if  I 
may  presume  that  much — to  try 
when  they  do  have  selections  in 
"Mormon"    meetings,    that  they 


choose  such  selections  as  fit  the  oc- 
casion. A  number  of  the  leading 
brethren  attended  a  meeting  some 
time  ago,  at  which  meeting  I  was 
present,  and  the  brother  who  was 
presiding  had  a  slip  of  paper  in  his 
hand.  I  happened  to  sit  next  to 
him.  There  were  these  prominent 
brethren  of  the  Church  at  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  meeting,  although  there 
were  quite  a  number  present  who 
were  not  Latter-day  Saints,  but  it 
was  a  "Mormon"  meeting  for 
"Mormon"  purposes.  I  looked  over 
his  list  of  songs  on  the  paper  that 
he  held  in  his  hand,  which  had  been 
handed  to  him  by  the  choir  leader, 
and  not  one  of  them  had  the  least 
reference  to  "Mormon"  thought, 
"Mormon"  ideas,  or  "Mormon" 
anything  about  it.  Well,  I  don't 
believe  that  is  just  right. 

I  have  seen,  too,  some  of  our 
brethren,  leaders  of  choirs,  select  a 
soloist  who  will  come  forward — 
someone  with  a  good  voice,  who  is 
capable  of  good  singing — who  will 
get  up  in  a  "Mormon"  meeting  and 
commence  to  sing  "My  Rosary." 
Well  now,  "My  Rosary"  is  fine 
music  and  a  good  song  for  a  Cath- 
olic meeting,  but  it  is  entirely  out  of 
place  in  a  "Mormon"  meeting.  That 
song  recites  how  "I  count  my  beads 
and  kiss  my  cross,"  and  all  that  so.rt 
of  thing.  Well,  I  don't  do  either,  I 
don't  believe  in  doing  either,  and 
you  don't  believe  in  it.  So  a  song 
like  that  is  entirely  out  of  place  in  a 
"Mormon"  meeting,  as  much  so,  I 
think,  as  it  would  be  to  sing  "We 
thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
to  guide  us  in  these  Latter  days," 
in  a  Catholic  meeting. 

Then  I  have  heard  a  soloist 
brought  in  who  would  sing  a  song 
entirely  at  variance  from  our  re- 
ligious thought.  Perhaps  it  would 
be  the  song  "Without  One  Stain," 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  idea  being  that  "Jesus  has  done 
everything;  he  has  cleansed  me;  I 
haven't  done  anything  myself,  but 
I  am  going  right  up  without  one 
stain."  I  have  thought:  Yes,  you 
will!  Not  if  He  knows  it,  you 
won't.  There  are  too  many  stains 
on  people  who  have  not  by  sincere 
and  heartfelt  repentance  cleansed 
themselves  from  stains.  Such  a 
song,  therefore,  is  entirely  out  of 
place  in  a  "Mormon"  meeting.  And 
you  will  hear,  as  one  of  the  brethren 
suggests,  the  song  about  "The 
Beautiful  Isle  of  Somewhere." 
Well,  yes,  that  is  in  line  with  the 
same  thought.  They  do  not  belong 
and  should  not  have  place  in  our 
meetings. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
my  time  is  up,  I  see,  and  this  is  my 
third  sermon.  Let  us  have  more 
of  community  singing,  congrega- 
tional singing.  Let  us  sing  songs  of 
Zion.  They  carry  with  them  a  spirit 
and  an  influence,  not  only  in  "Mor- 
mon" meetings,  but  in  others, 
that  cannot  be  found  anywhere  else, 
and  they  thrill  the  soul  as  nothing 
else  will  touch  it  and  thrill  it.  In- 
vite our  neighbors  to  our  meetings 
that  they  also  may  enjoy  the  spirit 
of  song  with  us.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

PRIMARY  EXHIBIT 

I  am  reminded  that  the  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  were  invited, 
yesterday,  by  the  Presidency  of  the 
Primary  Association,  to  visit  the 
exhibit  of  the  handiwork  of  the  lit- 
tle children  for  the  benefit  of  af- 
flicted soldiers.  The  exhibit  is 
placed  in  the  upper,  large  room  of 
the  Bishop's  building,  and  I  am  sure 
Sister  Felt  and  her  associates  will 
be  pleased  to  have  any  of  the  breth- 


ren and  sisters  who  desire  to  see 
what  is  being  done  by  the  children, 
in  the  Primary  work,  to  call  and 
visit  them. 

A  duet  and  chorus  was  sung  by 
Sarah  Hood  and  James  H.  Neilson 
and  the  Tabernacle  choir,  entitled, 
"I  waited  for  the  Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  was  pro- 
nounced by  President  Richard  W. 
Young  of  the  Ensign  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until 
2  p.  m. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  adjoining  the  Tabernacle,  at 
10  a.  m.,  presided  over  by  President 
Seymour  B.  Young,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  The  singing 
was  by  the  Jordan  stake  choir. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  morning 
breaks,  the  shadows  flee." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Soren  Rasmussen,  of  the  Jordan 
.stake  presidency. 

The  choir  then  sang  the  anthem, 
"Come  let  us  sing  unto  the  Lord," 

ELDER  S.  E.  WOOLLEY. 

(President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission.) 

I  rejoice  in  meeting  with  you 
this  morning.  And  I  bring  greet- 
ing from  the  Saints  in  Hawaii  to 
the  Saints  gathered  here  in  confer- 
ence. They  are  very  much  inter- 
ested in  the  work  here,  as  they  are 
there.  And  they  love  to  get  the 
reports  of  conference  and  to  know 
the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  given 
out  in  these  assemblies  for  our 
guide.  They  love  to  read  the  .ser- 
mons when  they  are  published,  to 
keep  in  touch  with  the  work  as  it 


ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  WOOLLEY. 


77 


progresses  in  the  earth.  I  rejoice 
with  them  in  having  the  privilege 
of  meeting  in  this  conference,  and 
listening  to  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  his  anointed,  give  us  that 
bread  of  life  that  all  Latter-day 
Saints  should  hunger  and  thirst  for. 
For  we  read  in  the  scriptures  that 
faith  cometh  through  hearing  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  that  is  the 
object  of  our  meeting  together  from 
time  to  time,  that  our  faith  may  be 
renewed  and  strengthened. 

I  have  rejoiced  from  the  begin- 
ning of  this  conference  up  to  the 
present  moment  in  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne.  This  to  me 
has  been  a  wonderful  conference 
because  of  so  many  faithful,  hum- 
ble, honest  testimonies  borne.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  need  more  testimony 
in  the  Church.  I  believe  that  our 
young  people  need  the  testimony  of 
those  who  have  had  more  experi- 
ence. I  have  noticed  in  my  experi- 
ence for  a  number  of  years  that 
when  teaching  classes,  and  we  fail 
to  get  the  attention  of  the  class,  if 
we  will  turn  and  bear  testimony  to 
that  which  we  know,  we  get  the  at- 
tention of  the  class,  because  when 
we  bear  testimony,  under  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  it 
enters  into  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

It  has  been  my  good  fortune  to 
labor  most  of  my  days  among  the 
Hawaiian  people.  I  went  to  Hawaii 
in  December,  1880,  under  the  in- 
struction and  call  of  President  John 
Taylor.  I  remember  well  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  set'  me  apart 
to  that  mission,  and  among  other 
things  he  promised  me  that  I  should 
learn  the  language,  and  that  the 
food  of  our  people  in  that  land 
would  be  sweet  to  me.  And  should 
I  tell  you  that  when  I  went  to  Ha- 
waii, just  turned  21  years  of  age, 


I  weighed  119  pounds,  and  now, 
nearly  another  hundred  above  that? 
The  food  of  that  land  has  been 
sweet  to  me,  so  you  that  have  boys 
and  girls,  young  men  and  young 
women  called  to  that  mission,  do  not 
worry  about  the  food.  It  is  good 
and  wholesome.  I  wish  we  had 
some  of  it  in  this  land. 

I  have  labored  among  the  Ha- 
waiians  mostly  since  1880.  I  have 
presided  over  the  Hawaiian  mission 
a  little  over  twenty-two  years,  and 
I  feel  that  I  am  in  a  position  to 
speak  of  that  nation  or  people.  I 
know  them  and  they  know  me,  and 
I  love  them  because  of  their  in- 
tegrity, their  love  for  the  truth, 
their  honesty  of  purpose,  their  faith 
and  devotion ;  and  oftentimes  I  en- 
vy some  of  our  local  elders  in  their 
prayers,  both  in  the  family  prayer 
and  in  their  devotional  exercises, 
because  I  feel  that  they  get  near 
unto  the  Lord  in  prayer.  They 
are  a  prayerful  people;  they  wor- 
ship the  Lord.  It  is  true  that  there 
are  many  who  are  weak,  as  we  find 
in  all  other  nations ;  but  as  a  nation 
they  are  a  God-fearing  people.  And 
they  believe  in  God ;  they  believe  in 
prayer,  and  they  are  devotional  in 
their  natures,  sweet  and  lovable, 
and  I  love  them,  too,  because  God 
loves  them. 

We  may  go  back  to  the  history  of 
that  mission  to  when  President 
Young  sent  a  company  of  elders 
there,  in  1850,  only  a  short  time 
after  they  came  to  the  Valleys  of 
the  Mountains.  Among  them  was 
George  O.  Cannon,  the  boy  of  the 
company.  The  Lord  raised  him  up 
and  made  him  mighty  in  that  land, 
and  the  people  of  today  speak  of 
him  as  one  of  the  mighty  men,  be- 
cause of  the  work  that"  he  did  in 
that  land  in  that  early  day.  The 
Lord  through  him  gave  that  people 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  history  of  their  forefathers,  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  We  find  among 
the  different  nations  where  the 
Lord  has  raised  up  men  to  translate 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  under  the  gift 
and  power  of  God,  while  others 
have  been  allowed  to  translate  the 
Bible.  The  Book  of  Mormon  was 
brought  forth  through  the  power  of 
God  by  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet, 
who  when  young  was  made  equal 
to  that  task  of  translating  and  giv- 
ing that  book  in  English.  The 
translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
from  English  to  Hawaiian  is  almost 
as  perfect.  The  translation  is  per- 
fect, but  there  are  a  few  typograph- 
ical errors  in  part  of  it,  but  very, 
very  few  indeed,  not  nearly  so  many 
as  we  find  in  the  Bible,  showinsr  the 
care  taken  in  handing  that  book 
down  through  the  'different  nations 
of  people.  It  is  wonderful  to  me 
how  the  Lord  has  raised  up  men  to 
do  this  work.  President  Cannon  re- 
ceived the  language  so  that  he  could 
sneak  fluently  to  the  people  within 
.three  weeks  or  thereabouts  after 
arriving.  President  Smith  was  able 
to  talk  Hawaiian,  administer  the 
cacrament,  conduct  meetings,  bao- 
tize.  confirm  and  oHaiti.  and  preach 
to  the  people  within  ninetv  davs. 
p"d  about  two  weeks  out  of  that 
time  he  was  sick  in  bed  with  a 
fever.  Men  in  that  nation  as  well 
as  in  other  nations  have  been  raised 
no  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

When  President  Cannon  first 
went  to  Hawaii  a  dissatisfaction 
had  arisen  among:  most  of  the 
eh'ers.  Thev  had  thought  that  they 
were  eoine;  to  an  English-sneaking 
people,  but  thev  found  so  few  for- 
eigners the  President  of  the  mis- 
sion decided  to  vacate  and  to  sro  on 
to  some  other  land,  which  he  and 
other  elders  did.      The  president 


wrote  to  Elder  Cannon,  who  was 
then  upon  Maui,  one  of  the  islands 
of  the  group.  In  going  to  those 
islands,  in  passing  that  island  of 
Maui,  he  said  in  his  heart,  "I  hope 
I  am  assigned  to  that  island,"  and 
when  they  drew  lots  he  drew  Maui ; 
and  upon  that  island,  at  the  little 
village  of  Lahani,  he  received  the 
letter  of  the  president  of  the  mis- 
sion saying  he  might  return.  He 
went  up  into  the  woods  back  of 
the  home  where  he  was  living,  and 
he  poured  out  his  soul  unto  the 
Lord,  to  know  what  to  do.  He  felt 
g-rieved  in  spirit  to  think  of  return- 
ing or  leaving  the  land  when  the 
President  of  the  Church  had  called 
him  to  go  there.  While  thus  pray- 
in?  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  to 
him.  and  spoke  to  him  as  one  man 
soeaketh  to  another,  and  told  him 
that  if  he  would  remain  and  be 
faithful  the  Lord  would  lead  him 
to  a  people  who  would  receive  his 
testimony.  The  next  day  he  went 
around  on  the  west  side  of  the 
island,  a  long  journev  on  foot  ( there 
were  no  horses  in  those  davs  upon 
the  islands,  or  verv  fewL  and  as  he 
neared  the  town  of  Wailahu  he  fell 
into  the  stream.  Those  of  you  who 
knew  President  Cannon  knew  him 
as  a  bashful  man,  and  I  presume 
verv  bashful  when  a  younar  man. 
And  he  felt  so  ashamed  to  think  he 
was  all  wet  that  he  decided  to  re- 
turn to  Lahani.  and  as  he  went  out 
of  the  stream  that  same  voice  told 
him  to  keep  on  his  fournev,  and  not 
return,  that  the  Lord  would  lead 
him  to  those  who  would  receive  his 
testimony.  And  he  went,  after  drv- 
ine  his  clothes  in  the  sun :  and  as 
he  came  into  the  village  of  Wailahu 
a  voting  ladv  was  crossing  the 
street,  and  she  said  in  Hawaiian. 
"Here  is  a  foreigner."  or  "Here 
comes  a  foreigner."     It  was  no  un- 


ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  WOOLLEY. 


79 


common  thing  to  see  foreigners 
then  because  that  was  headquarters 
for  the  whalers  of  the  north,  where 
they  put  in  for  winter,  and  it  was 
remarkable  that  she  should  single 
him  out  and  call  to  her  father, 
"Here  comes  a  foreigner.''  And  it 
brought  the  father,  who  was  a  high 
chief,  and  his  two  attendants  out 
to  the  gateway.  And  when  Presi- 
dent Cannon  saw  those  three  men. 
he  knew  them ;  they  were  the  three 
men  he  had  seen  in  vision,  and  who, 
the  Lord  had  shown,  would  receive 
his  testimony.  And  then  began  the 
work  in  the  Hawaiian  mission. 
President  Cannon  informed  the 
president  of  the  mission  that  he 
could  return  if  he  wished  to,  but 
he.  President  Cannon,  would  re- 
main and  do  his  duty,  which  he  did. 
And  at  the  home  of  this  young 
man,  Nefele,  (who  was  the  first 
Hawaiian  that  ever  came  to  Utah 
and  received  the  blessings  in  the 
Endowment  House,  went  back  and 
died  there,  a  good,  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saint),  the  work  began  in  that 
land.  The  Lord  opened  the  way, 
and  the  Lord  was  desirous  that 
President  Cannon,  the  youngest  of 
the  company,  should  be  the  instru- 
ment in  his  hands  of  opening  the 
mission  in  that  land  in  that  early 
day.  Since  that  time  there  have 
been  converts  made  by  the  thou- 
sands and  tens  of  thousands.  Presi- 
dent Smith,  who  has  been  interest- 
ed in  that  mission  always,  went 
there  when  he  was  a  young  boy, 
and  performed  his  first  mission ; 
learned  the  language  and  earned 
the  confidence,  love  and  respect  of 
the  people. 

In  the  administration,  too,  of 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  the 
Lord  moved  upon  him  to  build  a 
temple  in  that  land,  as  you  have 
already  heard.    Now  that  temple  is 


nearing  completion,  and  I  believe  it 
is  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise  that 
the  Lord  made  to  Lehi  who,  as  you 
will  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
in  blessing  his  son  Joseph,  promised 
him  that  all  of  his  seed  would  not 
be  lost.  I  believe  the  Lord  led  a 
part  of  the  Nephite  people,  or  a 
colony  of  them,  to  those  islands. 
When  some  of  the  Nephites  were 
migrating  to  the  north  under  Ha- 
goth,  the  great  Nephite  ship-build- 
er, some  of  their  vessels  were  lost, 
he  reported.  They  may  have  been 
swallowed  up  in  the  deep  or  they 
may  have  drifted  out  to  other  lands, 
but  were  never  heard  of  since.  Now 
T  believe  the  Hawaiian  people  were 
a  part  of  that  colony  of  Nephites 
that  were  migrating  to  the  north, 
and  the  vessels  became  disabled  and 
the  natural  current  of  the  ocean 
carried  them  to  Hawaii.  Then  we 
have  the  tradition  of  the  Samoans 
that  they  came  from  Hawaii  to  New 
Zealand.  So  I  believe  that  the  Lord 
hid. them  up  there,  and  in  his  own 
due  time  he  sent  his  servants  there 
in  an  early  day  in  our  history,  be- 
cause he  loved  them,  and  to  fulfil 
his  promises,  which  he  always  does. 

We  feel  very  grateful  that  the 
Lord  has  moved  upon  his  servant, 
the  President  of  the  Church,  to 
build  a  temple  in  that  land,  and  that 
is  a  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  because 
when  that  land  was  chosen  and  de- 
cided upon  as  a  gathering  place  for 
that  people  of  Hawaii  there  was  a 
committee  chosen  consisting;  of 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  William 
W.  Cluff  and  Alma  Smith,  and  they 
reported  favorably  upon  the  island 
of  Laie.  However,  as  Brother  Cluff 
was  walking  down  the  seashore 
early  one  morning;  while  upon  that 
mission,  the  Prophet  Brigham 
Young  appeared  to  him  and  said  to 
him,  "This  is  the  place,  and  upon 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE, 


this  land  we  will  build  a  temple 
unto  our  God."  That  was  away 
back  in  1864.  I  am  thankful  that 
that  temple  is  now  nearing  comple- 
tion. I  am  thankful  that  I  have 
been  called  to  labor  there  so  long, 
and  that  through  our  carefulness 
we  have  been  able  to  build  that  tem- 
ple out  of  the  funds  that  we  have 
gathered  from  time  to  time.  I  want 
to  say  in  favor  of  the  good  people 
of  Hawaii  that  they  have  now 
raised  over  $30,000  toward  the  erec- 
tion of  that  building;  and  at  the 
headquarters  at  Laie — most  of  the 
people  think  it  is  a  city,  it  is  only 
a  little  village,  about  450  all  told — 
in  that  village  alone  the  little  Pri- 
mary organization  which  numbers 
a  little  over  100  has  raised  over 
$1,000  toward  the  temple  so  far, 
and  the  Relief  Society  has  raised 
over  $1,250 — between  that  and  $1,- 
300.  Organizations  of  the  other 
branches  have  done  well.  The 
branch  of  Honolulu  has  raised  per- 
haps between  $4,000  and  $5,000. 
Thus  the  spirit  of  this  work  is  mov- 
ing upon  the  people,  and  notwith- 
standing this  large  amount  of 
money  that  they  have  collected  for 
the  building  of  the  temple  the  tith- 
ing has  increased  about  30  per  cent 
during  the  last  nine  months,  and 
they  have  met  every  other  obliga- 
tion. And  they  dress  just  as  well 
as  you  dress,  and  they  appear  just 
as  well,  and  they  are  progressing. 
They  love  the  truth,  and  I  hope 
when  that  temple  is  finished  and 
dedicated  and  accepted  of  the  Lord 
that  they  will  be  prepared  to  go  in 
'  and  receive  their  blessings.  W e  are 
trying  to  teach  them  along  these 
lines,  and  they  are  growing  in  wis- 
dom, in  faith  and  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  truth,  and  therefore  we  love 
them  for  their  integrity. 

Now  I  want  to  say  to  the  fathers 


and  mothers  who  have  boys  and 
girls  there  upon  missions,  Don't 
worry  about  them,  they  are  in  a 
good  land  and  among  a  good  peo- 
ple. Rumors  get  out  sometimes  of 
little  isolated  happenings,  and  the 
people  imagine  that  they  are  a  com- 
mon thing,  while  they  are  not.  You 
know  some  people  like  to  publish 
things  that  are  uncommon,  and  for- 
get all  about  those  things  that  are 
common.  I  was  talking  with 
Brother  Jenson  just  before  meeting 
about  some  of  these  things.  If  there 
is  an  accident  we  notice  it;  we 
never  think  of  the  tens  of  thousands 
of  people  who  never  have  an  acci- 
dent. Tf  we  are  sick  a  day,  we  ever 
remember  it,  but  we  forget  those 
days  in  which  we  enjoy  health  and 
strength.  These  little  things  are 
impressed  on  our  minds,  and  I  can 
say  that  sometimes  people  in  writ- 
ing about  those  things  that  are  not 
common  occasion  a  wrong  impres- 
sion. Any  way,  the  Hawaiian  peo- 
ple are  a  hospitable  people,  and 
have  given  the  elders  the  best  they 
have,  and  they  have  a  warm  soul 
that  makes  you  feel  welcome.  They 
are  kind  hearted  in  the  extreme. 
Therefore  your  missionary  boys 
and  girls  are  all  right,  and  their 
parents  here  do  not  need  to  worry 
about  them.  We  are  trying  to  take 
?ood  care  of  them,  and  guard  their 
health,  and  instruct  them  how  to 
live  so  that  they  will  be  efficient  and 
be  able  to  accomplish  their  labors. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  rejoice  in  the  testi- 
mony that  I  have.  I  am  not  tired 
of  the  work.  I  expect  to  go  back 
to  Hawaii,  and  continue  there  as 
long  as  the  brethren  want  me.  I 
started  out  that  way  when  I  was  a 
little  boy,  and  I  hope  I  will  have  the 
integrity  and  faith  to  continue.  It 
is  the  desire  of  my  heart  to  keep 


ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  WOOLLEY. 


81 


the  commandments  of  God.  I  know 
they  are  true.  They  came  from 
God.  They  are  for  us  or  they  never 
would  have  been  revealed  in  this 
dispensation.  It  is  for  us  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  to  walk 
in  the  path  of  virtue  and  righteous- 
ness, and  to  uphold  and  sustain  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  because 
they  are  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  There  is  no  other  way, 
no  other  road,  to  eternal  lives  ex- 
cept the  road  that  the  Lord  has 
marked  out;  and  when  he  says, 
"Come,  follow  me,"  it  means  that 
you  and  I  should  follow  him,  not 
only  in  faith,  not  only  in  repentance 
or  in  baptism,  but  in  all  other  things 
that  we  are  called  upon  to  do,  even 
if  we  are  called  upon  to  lay  down 
our  lives.  If  we  give  our  lives  to 
the  service  of  the  Lord,  we  are  fol- 
lowing the  Christ,  the  Lord.  That 
is  what  I  want  to  do.  We  should 
be  faithful  and  true  and  honest  be- 
fore God  that  we  can  look  one  an- 
other in  the  face  without  being 
ashamed. 

I  believe  that  we  are  gaining 
ground  in  Hawaii.  We  are  gain- 
ing prestige  as  in  every  other  part 
of  the  world.  This  work  is  going 
on;  no  power  can  stop  it.  It  will 
continue  to  go  on  until  it  fills  the 
whole  earth,  and  we  ought  to  be 
satisfied  in  our  stations.  If  we  are 
called  to  go  to  Hawaii,  let  us  go 
and  be  faithful  and  true.  Some  say 
it  is  an  awful  sacrifice  that  we  are 
making.  I  do  not  feel  that  way.  I 
feel  that  it  is  a  grand  blessing.  I 
appreciate  it.  I  appreciate  the  con- 
fidence of  those  who  have  called 
me.  I  appreciate  the  support  of 
President  Smith,  which  he  has  al- 
ways given  me  since  he  set  me 
apart  to  that  mission,  and  to  every 
mission  that  I  have  been  called  to 
fill  so  far,  J  rejoice  that  I  have  tried 


to  do  my  duty,  and  I  rejoice  that 
we  are  doing  so  well  in  Hawaii,  and 
I  hope  that  the  Lord  will  continue 
his  blessings  with  the  pgople  of 
Hawaii  as  well  as  all  other  peoples. 
The  Lord  is  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons. We  have  some  Chinese  who 
have  joined  the  Church,  who  are 
good  and  faithful  and  true.  They 
are  just  as  lovable  as  any  other  peo- 
ple. We  have  a  few  Japanese  also 
who  have  become  members  of  the 
Church,  and  they  are  true  and  faith- 
ful. We  have  many  half  castes, 
half  Chinese  and  half  Hawaiian, 
who  seem  to  be  among  our  very 
best,  faithful  and  true;  and  I  fee! 
that  we  are  doing  a  good  work.  We 
have  a  number  of  Japanese  em- 
ployed upon  the  plantation  at  Laie, 
and  their  children  are  attending  the 
Sunday  school,  the  Primary  and 
other  organizations.  Some  of  them 
have  been  baptized,  and  are  true 
and  faithful,  and  they  weep  to  think 
that  their  fathers  and  mothers  can- 
not see  the  truth;  but  there  will 
come  a  time  when  these  little  chil- 
dren who  have  joined  the  Primary, 
and  finally  have  coaxed  their  par- 
ents who  were  out  of  the  Church  to 
consent  to  their  baptism ;  and  after 
a  while  they  will  bring  their 
fathers  and  mothers  to  be  baptized, 
fulfilling  the  scriptures  that  "a  lit- 
tle child  shall  lead  them."  So  we 
rejoice  in  getting  the  people's  chil- 
dren into  the  organizations,  because 
after  a  while  their  hearts  will  be 
converted.  There  was  a  time  in 
in  Hawaii  when  the  wealthier  chil- 
dren, and  those  of  the  old  "mission- 
ary" stock  were  very  sarcastic,  and 
they  used  to  turn  away  from  us ; 
they  would  hardly  speak  to  me. 
These  people  take  their  hats  off  to 
me  now,  and  say,  "How  is  your 
work  progressing?  How  is  the 
temple  getting  along?" 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wherever  we  have  built  a  tem- 
ple in  the  Church  it  has  softened 
the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  it  is 
so  in  Hawaii,  and  I  look  for  an  in- 
crease of  conversions  in  the  near 
future,  because  people  are  becom- 
ing more  favorable,  and  they  want 
to  know,  as  they  put  it,  "What  do 
you,  people  believe  in  ?"  We  have 
gone  along  quietly.  A  few  years 
ago  we  were  building  some  perma- 
nent improvements.  One  promi- 
nent man,  with  whom  I  had  done 
considerable  business,  came  along 
and  said :  "Mr.  Woolley,  it  looks 
like  you  are  preparing  to  stay."  I 
told  him,  "We  will  be  here  after 
you  are  all  gone."  He  said,  "It 
looks  liks  it."  It  is  true,  the  Church 
lias  come  to  stay.  The  Lord  has 
promised  it.  It  is  his  work,  and.  it 
will  go  on  forever  and  ever. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  and 
bless  all,  help  us  to  be  faithful  and 
'urn  our  hearts  towards  the  truth, 
that  we  may  all  live  the  truth.  I 
want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you 
that  the  people  of  Hawaii  are  of 
the  pure  blood  of  Israel,  and  they 
ire  a  good,  faithful,  pure  people, 
and  when  you  hear  any  other  thing 
said  of  them,  don't  believe  it. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faith- 
ful and  true,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

(Assistant  Church  Historian.) 

This  has  been  one  of  the  most  in- 
teresting conferences  to  me  that  I 
ever  attended.  Perhaps  I  can  con- 
sistently assign  as  a  reason  for  this 
that  so  many  historical  events  have 
been  alluded  to  and  so  much  has 
been  said  concerning  record-keep- 
insr  that  has  appealed  to  me ;  and  I 
feel  impressed,  after  listening  to  the 


historical  and  interesting  discourse 
of  President  Samuel  E.  Woolley  of 
the  Hawaiian  mission,  to  say  a  few 
words  in  regard  to  history-making 
and  record-keeping,  and  explain 
briefly,  if  I  can,  how  we  all  are  in- 
debted to  history  for  what  we  know 
concerning  God,  our  eternal  Father, 
and  his  dealings  with  mankind  in 
times  that  have  passed. 

I  hold  in  my  hand  one  of  the 
standard  works  of  the  Church 
called  The  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
and  I  find  that  this  little  book  gives 
us  some  important  historical  infor- 
mation concerning  the  creation  of 
the  world  and  other  things,  in  ad  'i- 
tion  to  that  which  is  containe'1  in 
the  Bible.  In  the  second  chapter, 
(in  the  Book  of  Moses),  I  read 
concerning-  the  creation  of  the 
world  the  following :  "And  it  came 
to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake  unto 
Moses,  saying,  Behold  I  reveal  unto 
you  concerning  this  heaven  and  this 
earth ;  write  the  words  which  T 
speak."  The  Lord  then  proceeded 
to  reveal  to  Moses  the  history  of 
the  earth  upon  which  we  live,  and 
Moses  wrote  it.  Bv  this  means  not 
only  Moses,  but  all  of  us  who  are 
permitted  to  read  the  words  that 
Moses  wrote  after  the  dictation  of 
the  Lord  himself,  came  to  an  under- 
standing of  how  the  earth  was 
formed  or  created,  and  later  on  why 
it  was  formed.  It  tells  us  that  we 
were  intelligences  or  spirits  living 
with  God  our  Father,  and  that  the 
Lord  looked  out  into  space  and 
said  :  "We  will  go  clown,  for  there 
is  .space  there,  and  we  will  take  of 
these  materials,  and  we  will  make 
an  earth  whereon  these  [God's  chil- 
dren] may  dwell ;  and  we  will  prove 
them  herewith  to  see  if  they  will  do 
all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their 
God  shall  command  them"  (Book 
of  Abraham  3:24,  25).    That  was 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


83 


the  beginning  of  the  earth  on  which 
we  live. 

Take  the  Bible,  both  the  New  and 
the  Old  Testaments,  and  you  will 
find  that  it  is  the  historical  part  of 
it  that  makes  us  wise  unto  salvation, 
as  much  so,  perhaps,  as  that  which 
we  call  the  Prophets  or  the  Psalms, 
or  anything  else  contained  in  the 
books  :  for  this  reason,  that  if  we 
were  not  posted  historically,  and 
did  not  know  under  what  circum- 
stances these  sayings  were  made, 
we  would  never  comprehend  them, 
and  they  would  consequently  do  us 
but  very  little  good.  Through  read- 
ing Bible  history  we  learn  some- 
thing about  the  children  of  Israel, 
how  they  spent  forty  years  in  the 
wilderness,  and  how  they  finally 
crossed  the  Jordan  and  reached  the 
promised  land.  Reading  further, 
we  learn  something  about  the  stat- 
utes and  commandments  which  the 
Lord  gave  unto  '  the  children  of 
Israel,  and  how  they  prospered  for 
a  season  in  the  promised  land.  Thus 
knowing  their  history  we  under- 
stand the  meaning  of  the  predic- 
tions of  their  prophets  and  their 
fulfilment. 

Next  we  may  consider  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Here  we  find  that  the 
very  first  line  written  in  that  sacre  ' 
volume  is  history  commencing  as 
follows :  "I  Nephi  having  been 
born  of  goodly  parents,"  etc.  And 
so  Nephi  commences  to  tell  about 
his  parentage  and  the  beautiful  his- 
tory of  his  father  Lehi  who  had 
"'dwelt  in  Jerusalem  all  his  davs," 
and  how  Lehi  was  commanded  by 
the  Lord  to  lead  his  family  to  this 
land  (America),  whence  even  the 
Hawaiians  have  come,  of  which  we 
have  heard  something  todav.  The 
historians  among  the  Nephites  were 
very  diligent'  in  keeping  records. 
Yet,  on  a  certain  occasion  Christ 


himself  drew  attention  to  an  im- 
portant omission  in  their  records. 
I  will  read  the  following  from  the 
Rook  of  Mormon  (3  Nephi,  23,  7 
to  13  inclusive)  : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  [Jesus] 
said  unto  Nephi,  Bring  forth  the  rec- 
ord which  ye  have  kept. 

"And  when  Nephi  had  brought  forth 
the  records,  and  laid  them  before  him, 
he  cast  his  eyes  upon  them  and  said, 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you  I  com- 
manded my  servant  Samuel,  the  La- 
manite,  that  he  should  testify  unto 
this  people,  that  at  the  day  that  the 
Father  should  glorify  his  name  in  me. 
that  there  were  many  saints  who 
should  arise  from  the  dead,  and 
should  appear  unto  many,  and  should 
minister  unto  them.  And  he  said  unto 
them,  were  it  not  so? 

"And  his  disciples  answered  him 
and  said,  Yea,  Lord,  Samuel  did 
prophesy  according  to  thy  words,  and 
they  were  all  fulfilled. 

"And  Jesus  said  unto  them,  How  be 
it  that  ye  have  not  written  this  thing, 
that  many  saints  did  arise  and  appear 
unto  many,  and  did  minister  unto 
them  ? 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Nephi  re- 
membered that  this  thing  had  not 
been  written. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Jesus 
commanded  that  it  should  be'  written; 
therefore  it  was  written  according  as 
he  commanded." 

Referring  to  modern  revelation 
given  in  our  own  time  we  learn  that 
when  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  organized,  on 
the  6th  day  of  April.  1830,  with  six 
members,  the  very  first  thing  God 
told  his  servants  after  the  organiza- 
tion was  the  following:  "Behold, 
there  shall  be  a  record  kept  among 
you"  (Doc.  and  Cov.  21:130).  The 
Lord  did  not  neglect  the  importance 
of  record-keeping.  I  have  some- 
times thought  that  on  that  occasion 
he  remembered  the  important  his- 
tory of  the  past,  and  the  apparent 
neglect  in  recording  events  at  the 
time  they  took  place  in  the  days  of 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Savior.  We  cannot,  of  course, 
tell  exactly  what  was  originally 
written  by  those  who  were  asso- 
ciated with  the  Christ  in  his  minis- 
try in  Galilee,  Samaria  and  Judea, 
but  this  much  we  do  know,  that 
Matthew,  Mark,  Luke  and  John 
did  not  write  the  histories  or  gos- 
pels attributed  to  them  until  forty 
or  fifty  years  after  the  events  nar- 
rated by  them  had  occurred ;  and 
for  good  and  sufficient  reasons 
learned  men  in  the  Christian  world 
have  during  the  past  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  been  trying  to  harmon- 
ize these  four  gospels,  which  in 
quite  a  number  of  instances  seem  to 
be  more  or  less  contradictory  or  in- 
accurate. The  narratives  were  ap- 
parently written  from  memory 
many  years  after  the  events  record- 
ed took  place.  Consequently  there  is 
in  the  gospels  mentioned  a  lack  of 
important  dates  in  relation  to  the 
ministry  of  the  Savior  and  the  early 
events  connected  with  the  Christian 
Church.  In  opening  the  Dispensa- 
tion of  the  Fulness  of  Times  in  our 
day  the  Lord  seems  to  guard 
against  the  repetition  of  what  was 
an  apparent  neglect  centuries  be- 
fore, for  the  very  first  command- 
ment the  Lord  gave  to  his  Church 
as  an  organized  body  in  our  day 
was,  as  stated,  in  regard  to  record- 
keeping, and  Oliver  Cowdery  was 
appointed  to  be  the  first  recorder  of 
that  Church  which  by  divine  com- 
mand and  authority  was  established 
upon  the  earth  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet.  When  Oliver  Cowdery 
subsequently  was  called  to  another 
work,  a  special  revelation  was  given 
through  Toseph  the  Prophet  calling 
John  Whitmer.  one  of  the  eight 
witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
t.i  be  a  regular  Church  historian. 
He  was  commanded  to  write  and 


keep  a  regular  history  and  assist 
Joseph  Smith  in  transcribing  "all 
things  which  shall  be  given  you" 
(Doc.  and  Cov.  47:1-4).  And  the 
Lord  said  further:  "And  again  I 
say  unto  you  that  it  shall  be  ap- 
pointed unto  him  to  keep  the 
Church  records  and  history  contin- 
ually."- Had  this  not  been  a  matter 
of  great  importance,  the  Lord,  it 
seems  to  me,  would  not  have  com- 
manded it. 

If  it  were  not  for  records  and 
historians,  we  would  have  no  Bible, 
we  would  have  no  account  of  the 
ministry  of  John  the  Baptist  or  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  would  have  no 
Acts  of  the  Apostles.  We  would 
have  nothing  except  vague  tradition 
in  regard  to  Christianity  as  it  was 
established  upon  the  earth  1800 
years  ago.  If  it  were  not  for  his- 
torians, we  would  never  have  had 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  would 
not  have  known  much  that  could  be 
relied  on  as  truth  about  Joseph  the 
Prophet.  We  would  have  had  some- 
thing handed  down  to  us  in  a  more 
or  less  vague  and  unreliable  form. 
With  all  respect  to  our  old  veterans 
with  their  grey  hairs,  and  their  un- 
questioned honesty — those  who  try 
to  relate  interesting  narratives  con- 
cerning Joseph  the  Prophet  and  the 
early  days  of  the  Church — -can  not. 
with  all  their  endeavors  relate  facts 
iust  as  they  happened  :  they  find  it 
impossible  to  do  so  correctly,  when 
it  comes  to  details.  Their  memory 
does  not  permit  them  to  tell  the 
perfect,  accurate  story.  But  we 
can  use  their  stories  by  comparing 
them  with  the  records  of  the 
Church  written  by  Oliver  Cowdery. 
John  Whitmer,  Willard  Richards. 
George  A.  Smith  and  many  others, 
down  to  our  own  day. 

I  refer  you  to  this,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  because  there  has  been 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


85 


also  in  our  day  an  apparent  neglect 
in  record-keeping.  Interest  seems 
to  have  been  lost  to  a  great  extent 
at  present  in  regard  to  the  history 
of  this  most  wonderful  people,  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Let  me  here  in- 
terpolate that  there  has  never  been 
another  such  a  people  upon  the 
earth  since  it  was  first  created.  I 
make  no  exception  to  this  far-reach- 
ing assertion.  We  have  read  about 
the  Israelites  in  the  Old  Testament, 
the  early  Christians  in  the  New 
Testament,  the  Nephites  upon  this 
continent  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  many  other  peoples  who  have 
dwelt  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  in 
various  ages.  All  these  people  had 
their  experiences  in  their  day  and 
generations,  but  they  are  no  more 
in  existence ;  history  tells  us  that 
their  activities  at  length  came  to  an 
end.  But  the  dispensation  to  which 
we  belong  will,  according  to  prom- 
ise, he  continued  forever.  We  shall 
as  an  organization  remain  in  exist- 
ence throughout  all  time  to  come, 
and  it  will  be  just  as  President 
Woolley  has  said  that  we  shall  be 
here  after  every  other  religious  de- 
nomination shall  have  ceased  to  ex- 
ist. Earth  itself  may  pass  away, 
or  undergo  a  radical  change,  when 
cleansed  by  fire,  but  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  shall  no  more  pass  out 
of  existence,  for  out  of  this  Church 
organization  shall  eventually  grow 
the  kingdom  of  God,  over  which 
Christ  shall  reign  as  the  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 

And  now  I  desire  to  say  a  few 
words  in  regard  to  the  labors  per- 
formed of  late  years  at  the  His- 
torian's Office,  and  give  a  little  ad- 
ditional information  on  the  matter 
which  President  Anthon  H.  Lund 
alluded  to  in  his  address  delivered 
in  the  first  session  of  this  general 
conference.    We  have  been  very 


busy  at  the  Historian's  Office,  and 
also  on  the  outside,  gathering  to- 
gether and  putting  into  shape  that 
which  will  form  the  basis  of  the 
authentic  history  of  the  Church. 
Some  of  us  have  traveled  in  all 
parts  of  the  world  gathering  his- 
torical information  for  that  pur- 
pose, and  during  these  journeys 
most  important  data  have  been 
collected  and  thousands  of  records 
have  been  perused.  Records  have 
been  kept  from  the  beginning  both 
at  Church  headquarters,  in  the  dif- 
ferent missionary  fields,  and  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  but  in  many  in- 
stances they  have  been  kept  imper- 
fectly. Even  John  Whitmer,  the 
first  Church  historian,  was  not 
faithful  in  his  special  calling  very 
long.  He  apostatized  and  when  he 
left  the  Church  he  refused  to  give 
up  the  records  he  had  kept  to  the 
proper  Church  authorities ;  hence 
for  a  number  of  years  we  did  not 
have  the  full  records  concerning  the 
days  of  Kirtland  and  Missouri.  On 
one  of  my  special  missions  to  the 
East  I  was  prompted  to  go  to  a 
certain  place  in  Missouri,  where  I 
found  the  old  Whitmer  record.  I 
succeeded  in  obtaining  a  complete 
copy  of  the  same  which  contains 
some  important  data  in  addition  to 
that  which  the  Church  already  had. 
The  Whitmer  record  is  not  very 
lengthy,  but  it  covers  a  period  of 
Church  history  of  which  we  cannot 
learn  too  much.  I  may  here  add 
that  we  have  obtained  from  other 
odd  sources  of  information  many 
things  of  a  historical  nature  which 
ha^e  since  proved  to  be  of  great 
value.  For  this  I  feel  truly  thank- 
ful, because  the  sources  of  such  in- 
formation are  now  in  some  in- 
stances closed.  Many  of  those  who 
were  alive  forty  or  fifty  years  ago, 
and  who  could  give  us  valuable  in- 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


formation  then,  are  with  us  no 
more,  and  in  other  instances  records 
from  which  we  made  gleanings  a 
long  time  ago  have  since  been  de- 
stroyed or  lost. 

We  have  endeavored  to  go  back 
to  the  beginning.  We  have  live! 
long  enough  and  labored  long 
enough  to  be  convinced  of  this  fact, 
that  events  which  originally  seemed 
trivial  and  unimportant  at  the  time 
they  happened  have,  as  years  rolled 
on,  become  matters  of  the  greatest 
importance,  owing  to  the  great  re- 
sults that  in  many  instances  came 
from  small  beginnings.  Referring 
to  the  beginning,  for  instance,  there 
wasn't  much  stir  in  the  Unite  1 
States  when  six  men  quietly  assem- 
bled in  the  attic  story  of  Father 
Peter  Whitmer's  log  house  in  the 
little  obscure  village  of  Fayette, 
Seneca  county,  New  York,  on  that 
now  memorable  day,  April  6,  1830 ; 
but  look  at  that  event  now  in  the 
light  of  history.  How  many  thou- 
sands of  people  are  not  now  deeply 
interested  in  that  little  meeting  in 
which  the  Church  to  which  we  be- 
long was  first  organized  ?  When 
the  Church  was  very  small,  even  its 
early  members  did  not  pay  much  at- 
tention to  a  number  of  common- 
place incidents  that  happened. 
When  Brigham  Young  became  a 
convert  to  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  no  one  except  those 
immediately  concerned  paid  any  at- 
tention to  it,  but  as  the  Church  grew 
and  President  Brigham  Young  be- 
came one  of  the  greatest  pioneers 
and  leaders  that  the  world  has  ever 
known,  then  we  began  to  look'  at 
President  Brigham  Young's  conver- 
sion to  "Mormonism"  as  a  matter 
of  unusual  importance,  and  so  with 
many  other  things  because  of  the 
great  results  that  followed.  Conse- 


quently we  historians  of  a  later  day 
naturally  go  into  the  history  of  the 
Church  deeper  than  those  historians 
who  have  preceded  us.  We  have 
gone  over  the  same  ground  that 
was  covered  by  Willard  Richards, 
George  A.  Smith,  and  other  his- 
torians, and  have  added  a  great 
many  details  that  had  been  over- 
looked by  them,  or  considered  mat- 
ters of  so  little  importance  that  they 
were  given  no  place  in  Church  his- 
tory. Thus  we  have,  from  the  ear- 
lier records  kept  in  the  different 
branches  and  organizations  of  the 
Church  and  from  thousands  of  let- 
ters and  documents  on  file,  culled  a 
vast  amount  of  historical  informa- 
tion that  had  not  hitherto  been  con- 
sidered worthy  of  record.  We  have 
gone  over  some  of  these  old  rec- 
ords repeatedly  and  have  also  en- 
tered into  the  study  of  the  records 
kept  in  the  various  organizations 
and  branches  of  the  Church  in  its 
missionary  fields,  throughout  the 
entire  world,  and  in  some  instances 
we  have  had  to  lay  the  very  founda- 
tion historically  for  some  of  our 
missions.  For  instance,  when  I  vis- 
ited Hawaii,  in  1895,  I  did  not  find 
anything  at  all  in  the  shape  of  of- 
ficial documents  pertaining  to  that 
mission  for  the  first  ten  years  of  its 
existence.  All  the  public  records 
which  had  been  kept  prior  to  the 
Gibson  episode  had  been  lost,  but 
with  much  patience  and  labor  we 
went  to  work  gathering  from  old 
letters,  and  the  files  of  the  Deseret 
News,  material  which,  when  put  to- 
gether, forms  a  very  acceptable  rec- 
ord pertaining  to  the  founding  of 
the  Hawaiian  Mission.  We  have  at 
the  Historian's  Office  already  up- 
wards of  700  large  volumes,  of 
manuscript  history  completed.  We 
do  not  expect  any  one  of  you  ever 
to  read  all  of  these  lengthy  manu- 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


87 


script  histories,  but  they  are  all  very 
important  as  works  of  reference. 
These  volumes  and  the  many  that 
hereafter  will  be  added  may  con- 
sistently be  termed  the  "fathers"  of 
the  new  dispensation,  and  be  classed 
with  the  so-called  "fathers"  of  the 
early  Christian  Church.  We  have 
recorded  nearly  everything  that  has 
happened  since  the  organization  of 
the  Church,  in  1830,  under  proper 
date;  and  we  are  still  recording- 
events  as  they  occur  daily,  just  as 
regularly  as  the  sun  rises  and  sets, 
and  as  the  Church  is  now  repre- 
sented in  nearly  all  parts  of  the 
world  it  may  be  said  that  we  his- 
torians make  a  journey  around  the 
world  once  in  twenty-four  hours, 
not  physically,  of  course,  but  in  our 
minds,  and  in  our  researches.  This 
compilation  of  historical  events  is 
what  we  call  the  Journal  History  of 
the  Church. 

In  addition  to  that  we  have  gone 
into  the  great  world-field,  as  it  were, 
and  have  undertaken  to  write  a  sep- 
arate history  of  every  mission  that 
has  been  established  in  any  part  of 
the  world,  together  with  its  con- 
ferences and  branches.  This  has 
meant  for  me  personally  two  com- 
plete trips  around  the  world.  Once 
I  went  west  and  returned  from  the 
east  and  thus  lost  a  day  of  my  short 
span  of  life;  and  when  I  had  occa- 
sion to  go  around  the  globe  a  sec- 
ond time  I  started  east  and  came 
back  from  the  west  thereby  regain- 
ing the  day  I  had  lost  on  my  first 
tour  of  circumnavigation.  My  jour- 
neyings  were  chiefly  in  the  interest 
of  Church  history.  Following  in  the 
wake  of  the  missionaries  who  had 
preceded  me,  I  succeeded  in  obtain- 
ing much  valuable  information 
from  many  different  sources,  and  in 
addition  to  that  I  gathered  up  thou- 
sands of  records  which  had  accu- 


mulated in  the  various  missionary 
fields  and  sent  them  to  Church  head- 
quarters, where  they  are  now  safely 
stored  in  the  Historian's  Office. 
Many  of  these  records  are  in  my 
estimation  worth  their  weight  in 
gold  to  the  historians  and  also  to 
the  Church  at  large. 

We  have  also  gone  into  the  dif- 
ferent stakes  of  Zion  for  historical 
purposes,  and  we  have  gathered 
material  for  and  written  the  history 
of  every  stake  more  or  less  com- 
pletely, commencing  with  the  or- 
ganization of  the  stake  at  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  the  stake  in  Missouri,  the 
stake  in  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  etc.,  and 
we  have  continued  this  work  down 
to  the  present  time,  but  more  par- 
ticularly to  the  close  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century.  Even  all  the  stakes 
of  Zion  as  they  are  now  organized 
have  had  attention.  And  we  have 
done  more  than  that.  We  have 
gone  into  the  details  of  every  bish- 
op's ward  in  the  Church,  and  as  we 
now  have  about  eight  hundred  such 
organized  wards  in  the  different 
stakes  of  Zion,  the  work  is  im- 
mense, and  we  have  paid  attention 
to  all  of  them,  particularly  the  older 
ones.  Thus  we  have  written  the 
history  of  every  settlement  of  the 
Saints  in  the  Rocky  Mountain  coun- 
try, extending  as  they  do  from 
Mexico  on  the  south  to  Canada  on 
the  north.  We  have  visited  every 
nook  and  corner  in  the  mountains 
and  have  gathered  and  written 
something  in  the  shape  of  history  of 
everything  that  has  an  existence 
within  the  meaning  of  Church  or- 
ganizations. I  believe  I  can  say 
truthfully  that  no  organization  dat- 
ing back  to  the  Nineteenth  century 
has  been  entirely  neglected,  though 
in  some  instances  we  have  been  en- 
abled to  write  much  better  histories 
than  in  other  cases,  owing  to  the 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


difference  in  the  sources  from 
which  we  have  obtained  informa- 
tion. 

In  most  of  the  wards  we  have 
also  written  histories  of  the  Relief 
Societies,  Sunday  Schools,  Young 
Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  Primary' 
Association,  Religion  Classes,  etc., 
not  to  speak  of  the  various  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood,  bringing  the  his- 
torical thread  down  to  the  close  of 
the  century.  Thus  we  have  been  en- 
abled to  give  proper  credit  to  the 
faithful  members  of  the  Church 
who  have  labored  in  the  different 
quorums  and  auxiliary  associations 
from  the  beginning.  In  doing  this 
vast  labor  our  chief  aim  has  been  to 
obtain  accurate  data  and  write  his- 
tories that  are  absolutely  true  and 
reliable  in  all  their  details.  But  we 
shall  not  be  satisfied  with  our  labors 
until  we  have  made  one  more  visit 
to  all  the  stakes  and  wards  through- 
out the  Church  for  the  purpose  of 
reading  to  the  old  settlers,  and  all 
others  who  are  interested,  that 
which  we  have  written,  in  order  to 
insure  accuracy  and  correct  all  pos- 
sible errors  that  may  have  crept  in. 
In  this  our  next  visit  we  look  for  a 
full-hearted  response  and  co-opera- 
tion on  the  part  of  all  the  people. 
Let  no  one,  no  matter  how  busy 
they  may  be  with  other  things,  let 
the  opportunity  pass,  but  meet  with 
us  and  become  convinced,  so  far  as 
they  are  able,  to  lend  aid  and  assist- 
ance, that  the  histories  made  con- 
cerning them  and  their  settlements 
are  correct. 

In  our  work  of  revision  we  de- 
sire to  guard  particularly  against 
errors  in  names.  I  have  frequently 
said  that  my  hair  turned  grey  be- 
cause of  the  difficulties  I  met  with 
in  my  historical  labors  in  finding 
out  the  correct  names  of  the  breth- 


ren and  sisters  concerned  in  the  his- 
tories that  I  was  writing.  My  hair 
from  my  childhood  days  being 
somewhat  flaxen  in  color,  I  did  not 
anticipate  that  it  would  ever  turn 
silver  grey,  but  it  did,  and  I  think 
it  was  partly  due  to  the  fact  that  I 
met  so  many  people  in  my  travels, 
— intelligent  people,  too — who  did 
not  seem  to  know  their  own  names. 

Let  me  explain  further.  The 
whole  history  of  the  Church  is  as  a 
matter  of  course  based  upon  the  ac- 
tions and  experiences  of  men  and 
women  who  have  taken  more  or  less 
active  parts  in  public  matters,  both 
at  home  and  abroad.  We  have  tried 
to  give  these  faithful  men  and  wom- 
en due  credit  in  their  own  names, 
and  have  endeavored  to  rule  out 
nick  names,  pet  names,  abbreviated 
names  or  initials,  misspelled  names, 
and  names  of  foreigners  who  on 
their  arrival  in  this  country  have 
anglicized  their  original  names  and 
thus  have  become  known  as  differ- 
ent individuals.  The  changing  and 
corruption  of  names  have  been  a 
matter  of  much  annoyance  to  the 
historians,  as  we  often  have  met 
with  men  who  while  filling  missions 
abroad  would  be  known  by  one 
name  and  while  filling  positions  at 
home  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of 
Zion  would  be  known  by  some  other 
name.  Now,  this  is  all  wrong.  A 
person  should  endeavor  to  have 
everything  he  does  in  the  interest 
of  his  own  as  well  as  the  public 
good  credited  up  to  his  own  name, 
and  not  alienate  himself  from  the 
works  of  his  life  by  giving  credit 
to  some  myth  or  to  something  that 
cannot  be  identified.  Let  me  sug- 
gest to  you,  brethren,  when  you  fill 
a  mission,  that  you  fill  it  in  your 
own  name.  When  you  pay  your 
tithing  or  donations,  pay  it  in  your 
own  name,  and  when  you  fill  any 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON. 


89 


office  or  position  of  any  kind  what- 
ever, see  that  your  own  name  is 
given  the  credit  for  the  same.  We 
may  need  all  the  credit  we  can  get 
when  we  appear  before  the  right- 
eous judge  of  all.  There  should  not 
be  the  least  deviation  in  the  writing 
of  names  for  historical  purposes, 
and  let  me  say  to  all :  Do  not  go 
through  the  world  with  a  pet  name 
or  a  nick  name ;  use  your  real  name 
invariably,  especially  for  public  pur- 
poses— the  name  you  had  given  you 
when  you  were  blessed  by  the  elders 
of  the  Church  as  little  children, 
which  name  at  that  time  undoubt- 
edly became  a  matter  of  record. 
This  means  more  to  you  than  you 
perhaps  imagine,  though  you  may 
think  it  is  merely  a  technical  mat- 
ter ;  but  let  me  assure  you  that  it 
means  your  very  identity  as  an  in- 
dividual, historically.  If  you  insist 
to  go  through  life  with  false  or  cor- 
rupted names,  you  will  undoubtedly 
regret  it.  For  historical  purposes 
"Harry"  should  never  be  substitued 
for  "Henry,"  nor  "Lizzie"  for 
"Elizabeth,"  "Bob"  for  "Robert," 
"Dick"  for  "Richard,"  "Polly"  for 
"Mary,"  etc.,  and  family  names 
should  be  scrupulously  guarded.  We 
do  not  like  to  see  the  beautiful 
Swedish  name  of  "Soborg"  changed 
to  "Seamountain"  nor  "Jorgensen" 
to  "Yorgason."  Natives  of  Ger- 
many, Scandinavia,  Holland  and 
other  foreign  countries  should  re- 
tain the  original  way  of  spelling 
their  names,  and  also,  if  possible, 
the  pronunciation ;  otherwise  their 
identity  may  become  lost  and  be 
ruled  out  of  history  altogether.  No 
matter  how  many  positions  you 
have  filled  in  the  Church,  or  how 
much  good  you  have  done  in  life, 
it  will  not  count  to  your  credit  in 
the  records  kept  in  mortality,  un- 


less you  do  what  you  do  in  your 
own  name.  We  cannot  afford  to 
falsify  the  records.  Yet  in  some  in- 
stances this  has  been  done  to  such 
an  extent  that  I  sometimes  wonder 
if  the  angels  themselves  will  know 
who  we  are. 

In  conclusion  I  desire  to  impress 
you  with  the  importance  of  keeping 
individual  records.  The  public 
records  are  in  many  instances  well 
kept  and  preserved,  but  in  other  in- 
stances they  are  imperfectly  kept 
and  not  preserved  at  all.  In  such 
instances  the  parties  interested  may 
lose  their  credit,  unless  they  have 
kept  individual  records,  to  which 
reference  can  be  made.  If  we  have 
been  called  by  the  Lord  to  labor  in 
his  vineyard,  and  thus  been  priv- 
ileged to  take  part  in  this  great  Lat- 
ter-day work,  it  is  but  proper  and 
right  that  history  should  give  us 
credit.  I  therefore  suggest  to  you 
all,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you 
be  not  afraid  or  be  too  modest  to 
make  records  of  your  own.  In  say- 
ing this  I  appeal  to  all  of  you  who 
are  old  enough  to  understand  what 
I  say.  Remember  the  old  saying, 
"that  what  you  do  yourselves  is 
sure,  but  what  you  trust  to  others 
may  prove  disappointing;"  also  "if 
life  is  worth  living,  its  deeds  are 
worth  recording."  So  let  us  keep 
individual  records.  If  you  cannot 
keep  a  daily  journal,  like  some  of 
us,  who  have  kept  journals  nearly 
all  through  life,  then  write  at  least 
some  of  the  most  important  events 
of  your  lives.  Some  of  you  old 
veterans  that  I  now  see  before  me 
will,  like  myself,  pass  away  before 
very  long,  but  before  going  to  the 
great  beyond  write  down  some  of 
the  experiences  you  have  had  in 
your  life  with  good  ink  and  on  good 
paper,  that  it  may  be  left  for  your 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


posterity.  This  will  serve  a  better 
purpose  to  perpetuate  your  memory 
than  a  costly  stone  monument,  and 
by  doing  this  it  may  be  said  of  you, 
as  was  said  of  Abel  of  old,  "though 
dead,  he  yet  speaketh." 

Among  our  many  other  'duties, 
brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  therefore 
remember  this  essential  duty  of  rec- 
ord-keeping. In  the  midst  of  our 
busy  lives  do  not  let  us  be  too  mod- 
est nor  too  negligent,  to  record 
some  of  the  things  the  Lord  has 
permitted  us  to  do  in  connection 
with  his  great  latter-day  work.  I 
believe  it  would  be  perfectly  right 
for  us  to  overcome  our  modesty  or 
negligence  to  such  an  extent  that 
we  record  something  about  our- 
selves, and  not  rely  altogther  upon 
the  angels  above  us  "who  are  silent 
notes  taking  of  every  action,"  re- 
membering that  we  mortals  do  not 
have  access  to  the  records  made 
above. 

Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  in  one 
of  his  letters  to  the  Church,  said : 
"Whatsoever  you  record  on  earth 
shall  be  recorded  in  heaven ;  and 
whatsoever  you  do  not  record  on 
earth  shall  not  be  recorded  in  heav- 
en" (Doc.  and  Cov.  128:8).  While 
this  was  written  originally  in  ref- 
erence to  baptism  for  the  dead,  it 
can  apply,  I  think,  to  record-keep- 
ing altogether. 

Then,  brethren  and  sisters,  en- 
deavor to  make  records  for  your- 
selves, and  aim  to  become  true  and 
accurate  historians  at  the  same  time, 
not  forgetting  that  we  should  all 
live  lives  and  perforin  deeds  worthy 
of  recording.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

Selma  Pearson  sang  a  solo  enti- 
tled, "Let  ,us  have  Peace." 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President  of  the   Eastern  States 
Mission) 

To  be  privileged  to  attend  this 
conference  has  been  the  opportu- 
nity of  my  life,  I  am  so  thankful 
for  the  spiritual  blessings  that  have 
been  poured  out  in  the  instructions 
that  we  have  received  during  this 
conference.  When  I  left  New  York 
1  thought,  Well,  I  am  going  to  the 
service  station  now  where  my  spir- 
itual batteries  shall  be  recharged. 
I  think  of  all  features  associated 
with  these  gatherings,  the  most 
important  and  essential  is  the  spirit 
of  which  we  partake,  and  which  we 
are  expected  to  take,  not  only  to 
the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion,  but 
out  to  the  frontier,  in  the  missions 
of  the  Church. 

It  is  not  enough  to  draw  inspira- 
tion from  the  congregations  who 
have  gathered  together;  but  I  sin- 
cerely ask  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  that  if  the  Lord  has 
any  message  to  deliver  to  you 
through  me,  his  humble  servant, 
that  we  shall  not  be  disappointed. 
I  feel  incorhpetent  to  occupy  this 
position  by  virtue  of  the  innate  sta- 
bility which  I  may  possess,  but 
rather  I  feel  like  Joseph,  that  son 
of  Jacob  who,  when  he  was  taken 
from  the  dungeon  to  interpret 
Pharaoh's  dream,  bowed  his  head 
in  meekness  before  his  Maker  and 
before  King  Pharaoh,  and  said, 
"It  is  not  in  me,  yet  God  will  give 
Pharaoh  an  answer  of  peace."  1 
find  in  holy  writ  accounts  of  great 
men  whom  we  regard  as  having 
lived  very  close  to  their  heavenly 
Father,  men  who  have  enjoyed  the 
abundance  of  inspiration  from  God 
our  Father.  They,  too,  have  felt 
the  weakness  which  I  sense  this 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MO N SON. 


91 


morning.  Jeremiah,  that  great 
prophet  whose  record  has  been 
handed  down  to  us  in  the  Old  Tes- 
tament, prayed  thus :  "O  Lord,  1 
know  the  way  of  man  is  not  in  him- 
self. It  is  not  in  man  that  walketh, 
to  guide  his  steps  aright."  I  also 
find  Enoch,  who  was  very  faithful 
before  the  Lord  at  all  times,  utter- 
ing these  words  after  he  had  been' 
called  to  a  very  important  ministry  : 

"A,nd  when  Enoch  had  heard  these 
words  he  bowed  himself  to  the  earh 
before  the  Lord,  saying,  Why  is  it 
that  I  have  found  favor  in  thy  sight, 
and  am  but  a  lad,  and  all  the  people 
hate  me;  for  I  am  slow  of  speech, 
wherefore  am  I  thy  servant?  And 
the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch,  Go  forth 
and  do  as  I  have  commanded  thee, 
and  no  man  shall  pierce  thee.  Open 
thy  mouth  and  it  shall  be  filled,  and 
I  will  give  thee  utterance,  for  all  flesh 
is  in  my  hands,  and  I  will  do  as  seem- 
eth  me  good.  Say  unto  this  people, 
choose  ye  this  day  to  serve  the  Lord 
who  made  you.  My  spirit  is  upon 
you,  wherefore  all  my  words  will  I 
justify;  and  the  mountains  shall  flee 
before  you,  and  the  rivers  shall  turn 
from  their  course,  and  thou  shalt 
abide  in  me,  and  I  in  you,  therefore 
walk  before  me.  And  the  Lord  spake 
unto  Enoch,  and  said  unto  him, 
Anoint  thine  eyes  with  clay,  and  wash 
them,  and  thou  shalt  see.  And  he  did 
so.  And  he  beheld  spirits  that  God 
had  created;  and  he  beheld  also  things 
which  were  not  visible  to  the  natural 
eyes;  and  from  thenceforth  came  the 
saying  abroad  in  the  land,  a  S-eer  hath 
the  Lord  raised  up  unto  his  people." 

It  was,  perhaps,  this  same  feel- 
ing which  possessed  the  boy  whom 
we  have  learned  to  regard  no  longer 
as  a  "boy  prophet,"  but  rather  the 
great  American  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  when,  before  he  was  fifteen 
years  of  age,  he  felt  his  incapabil- 
ity to  serve  God  in  and  of  himself. 
Retiring  to  a  wood  not  far  distant 
from  his  father's  home,  looking 
around  him  to  make  sure  that  he 


was  unobserved  by  curious  eyes,  he 
knelt  down  and  for  the  first  time 
in  his  life  uttered  a  solemn  though 
simple  prayer  to  God  for  light.  His 
soul  had  been  stirred  by  religious 
sentiment  through  attending  revival 
meetings  which  were  carried  on  in 
his  neighborhood.  And  as  he  knelt 
and  prayed  to  God,  the  power  of 
darkness  attacked  him.  He  was 
thrown  violently  to  the  earth  until 
he  despaired  of  his  own  life.  By 
superhuman,  aye,  that  spiritual, 
power  which  was  accentuated  by 
the  assistance  of  his  heavenly 
Father,  he  prayed  that  the  powers 
of  darkness  might  be  dispelled. 
And  so  it  was,  for  he  saw  at  noon- 
day, coining  through  the  trees  of 
that  sacred  grove,  a  light  surpass- 
ing the  brilliancy  of  the  sun,  in 
which  shaft  of  light  he  saw  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
Then,  with  a  childlike  appeal,  he 
said,  "Which  of  all  the  churches 
and  denominations  shall  I  join?" 
The  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men, 
pointing  to  the  younger  personage, 
said,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son ; 
hear  him."  Such  was  the  command 
given  by  God  at  the  scene  of  trans- 
figuration when,  through  spiritual 
ecstasy,  those  who  accompanied  the 
Master  in  the  mountain,  said :  "Let 
us  build  three  temples,  one  for  thee, 
and  one  for  Moses  and  one  for 
Elias."  The  voice  of  God  spoke 
and  said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased ;  hear 
ye  him."  If  the  world  would  heed 
that  injunction  of  God  the  eternal 
Father  there  would  be  but  one 
Church  upon  the  earth  today.  They 
are  not  hearing  Jesus  Christ,  but 
they  are  prating  about  "believe  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  thou  and 
thy  house  shalt  be  saved." 

Isolated  texts  have  been  taken 
from  the    scriptures    upon  which 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


creedal  religions  have  been  based, 
while  the  greater  part  of  the  scrip- 
tures have  been  brushed  aside  as 
being  worthless,  and  only  parts  of 
the  religion  of  Jesu/s  Christ  Ire- 
tained.  We,  too,  believe  and  hold 
that  sincere  belief  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  is  essential,  but  if  that  is  all 
that  is  essential,  as  many  aver,  then 
1  ask  our  Protestant  friends,  Where 
is  the  excuse  for  your  existence  as 
a  Church?  because  I  understand  it 
has  been  an  essential  teaching  of 
the  Catholic  church  that  belief  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  necessary, 
and  if  that  is  all  that  is  necessary 
all  of  the  added  ceremonies,  the 
,>omp  and  show  of  the  Catholic 
church  which  became  so  heavy  that 
it  broke  of  its  own  weight,  is  atoned 
for  in  the  acknowledgment  of  Jesus 
Christ.  But  something  else  is 
needful.  Those  who  claim  that  be- 
lief in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  all 
that  is  necessary,  are  making  a 
claim  which  I  am  prone  to  believe 
they  do  not  believe  themselves. 
Martin  Luther  broke  from  the  rule 
of  the  Catholic  church  because  of 
a  difference  in  something  else  than 
belief  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
yet  we  have  various  sects  and  de- 
nominations claiming  that  belief  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  all  that  is 
necessary.  What  would  you  poli- 
ticians, if  there  are  any  here,  you 
Democrats,  what  would  you  think 
of  a  member  of  your  persuasion 
who  says,  "I  believe  in  the  princi- 
ples of  democracy,"  and  yet  who 
refuses  to  give  his  support  to  the 
party  by  going  to  the  polls  and  vot- 
ing? What  would  you  Republicans 
think  of  such  a  man  who  has  no 
more  faith  and  devotion  to  his  party 
than  to  say,  "I  believe  these  prin- 
ciples are  the  true  principles  of 
civil  government,  but  I  refuse  to 
vote"? 


We  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  no  other  people  upon  the 
earth  believe  in  him.  He  himself 
proclaimed  the  utter  uselessness  of 
that  individual  who  said,  "Lord, 
Lord,"  and  did  not  the  things  which 
he  said. 

How  shall  we  apply  that  princi- 
ple of  belief  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ?  How  do  you  say  that  it  is 
essential?  It  is  the  measurement, 
not  the  thing  measured.  It  is  the 
schedule,  but  it  is  not  the  train.  It 
is  the  formula,  but  it  is  not  the 
mixture.  For  example :  Questions 
arise  respecting  baptism,  one  say- 
ing that  sprinkling  is  baptism,  an- 
other that  pouring  is  baptism,  an- 
other, that  one  must  be  baptized 
three  times  kneeling  in  the  water, 
and  going  down  face  foremost ;  and 
another,  that  baptism  by  immer- 
sion, both  standing  in  the  water,  is 
baptism.  Now  in  this  maelstrom  of 
contention  which  shall  we  believe? 
Athenasius,  the  father  of  the  Ath- 
enasian  creed,  John  Wesley,  the 
father  of  the  Methodist  church, 
John  Calvin,  the  organizer  of  the 
Presbyterian  church,  Henry  VIII, 
the  founder  of  the  Episcopal  church 
— which  are  we  to  believe? 

Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
what  he  says  of  it,  and  you  shall 
be  saved.  When  Paul  and  Silas 
were  miraculously  delivered  from 
that  Philippian  jail,  and  the  jailer 
was  about  to  commit  suicide,  fear- 
ing that  he  had  lost  his  charge  and 
would  be  censurable  before  the 
king,  told  what  he  must  do  after 
earnest  inquiry,  to  be  saved ;  he 
had  his  own  philosophy,  the  pagan 
philosophy.  He  was  worshiping 
false  gods,  and  when  he  fell  at  Paul 
and  Silas'  feet,  and  was  about  to 
worship  them,  he  was  enjoined  to 
believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  M  ON  SON. 


93 


not  upon  Paul  or  Silas,  not  upon 
pagan  philosophies. 

Let  that  be  the  beginning — the 
rule  by  which  all  disputes  shall  be 
settled,  believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  not  make  it  the  end 
of  our  faith.  Make  it  the  rule  by 
which  we  shall  measure  our  faith 
and  integrity  to  heaven  and  heav- 
en's law.  When  the  word  came 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him," 
it  spoke  volumes  as  to  what  should 
come.  God  is  the  God  of  revela- 
tion, and  that  he  speaks  by  the 
voice  of  truth,  and  that  men  and 
women  whose  lives  are  ever  actu- 
ated by  that  Spirit  of  God  which 
has  been  so  abundantly  poured  out 
in  this  conference,  that  they,  too, 
shall  have  the  revelation  of  the 
Lord. 

The  world  look  upon  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  as  being  children  led  by 
a  Pied  Piper  to  destruction,  and 
that  we  have  not  minds  to  think 
for  ourselves.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  there  is  no  people  upon  the 
face  of  this  earth  with  whom  I 
have  come  in  contact  in  all  my  eight 
and  a  half  years  of  missionary  work 
who  are  as  free  to  think  and  act 
for  themselves  as  are  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  really  believe  there 
is  a  shiver  runs  through  the  nether 
regions  when  some  of  our  Christian 
brethren  begin  to  think  for  them- 
selves. 

Instead  of  being  led  astray  by 
creeds  and  by  man-made  religions, 
let  them  stand  upon  their  dignity 
and  hear  what  Jesus  Christ  says.  1 
maintain  that  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion is  to  be  enjoyed  not  only  by 
the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  of 
the  Church,  but  by  all  faithful  mem- 
bers also.  Inasmuch  as  revelation 
comes  by  the  Spirit  of  God — by  the 
Holy  Ghost  that  was  to  testify  of 


Jesus  Christ,  and  that  Spirit  is  in 
the  hearts  of  all  the  faithful  chil- 
dren of  God,  if  they  are  faithful, 
and  if  actuated  by  that  Spirit  of 
revelation  which  directs  the  life  of 
the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  of 
the  Church,  they,  too,  will  have  the 
authority  to  give  the  word  of  reve- 
lation in  things  pertaining  to  their 
charge. 

When  the  President  of  the 
Church  speaks,  revelation  comes  to 
us,  our  souls  are  surcharged  with 
that  Spirit,  and  we  say  amen  to 
whatsoever  the  Lord  speaks. 

My  soul  is  glad  in  the  opportu- 
nity that  I  have  in  attending  this 
conference,  and  of  mingling  my  tes- 
timony with  such  grand,  good  men 
as  those  who  stand  at  the  head  of 
this  Church.  I  know,  too,  that  they 
are  men  who  are  upheld  and  sus- 
tained by  the  power  of  the  true  and 
living  God,  and  that  those  who  crit- 
icize them  can  compare  in  no  meas- 
ure with  the  lives  of  those  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  dispensa- 
tion. I  used  to  think,  when  a  child, 
what  a  pleasure  it  would  have  been 
to  associate  with  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  with  Brigham  Young! 
I  had  the  pleasure  when  a  child  of 
meeting  President  John  Taylor, 
and  have  been  acquainted  with  ev- 
ery president  of  the  Church  since. 
To  be  associated  with  this  great 
missionary  movement  and  feel  that 
I  am  willing  to  give  my  life  for  it, 
if  need  be,  along  with  such  men  as 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and 
President  Anthon  H.  Lund  and 
President  Charles  W.  Penrose  with 
whom  I  stood  shoulder  to  shoulder 
and  preached  the  gospel  in  Great 
Britain,  I  assure  you  is  an  unspeak- 
able pleasure  to  me.  I  wonder  if 
my  children  will  be  appreciative  of 
their  father's  association  with  these 
men  who  have  presided  over  the 


«4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Church  when  the  greatest  advance- 
ment of  this  people  have  been 
achieved. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I 
know  as  I  know  who  is  my  father 
and  mother,  that  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  true.  I  know  that 
they  are  my  father  and  mother  be- 
cause of  the  fatherly  and  motherly 
love  that  they  have  extended  to- 
ward me  in  my  childhood  and  all 
through  my  life,  the  wholesome 
counsel  and  advice  that  they  have 
given  me,  as  I  also  know  that  the 
gospel  is  true  because  of  the  appli- 
cation of  the  laws  and  the  saving- 
promises  made  through  obedience 
to  the  gospel,  by  which  I  have  been 
brought  to  know  more  and  more  of 
the  transcendent  joys  brought  to 
my  heart,  than  even  those  that  have 
come  through  my  earthly  father 
and  mother.  To  prove  my  love  for 
God's  work  I  am  willing  to  leave 
father  and  mother,  houses  and 
lands,  wife  and  children  for  the 
kingdom  of  God's  sake. 

I  hope  that  the  youth  of  Zion 
may  realize  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  them  in  carrying  the 
gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
for  there  are  thousands  who  are 
praying,  Cornelius-like,  for  the 
truth. 

My  experience  in  the  Eastern 
States  mission  has  led  me  to  be- 
lieve, and  I  bring  this  to  you,  that 
there  are  thousands  of  men  in  gov- 
ernmental affairs,  as  well  as  men  in 
financial  and  other  prominent  posi- 
tions of  trust  who  are  thoroughly 
converted  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  count  them  among 
my  dearest  friends,  and  when  T 
have  needed  friends,  they  have  ex- 
tended their  hands  to  me  and  said, 
Brother,  I  will  help  you. 

May  you  carry  the  spirit  of  this 


conference  into  your  homes.  May 
we  all  rejoice  in  being  permitted  to 
be  born  in  this  day  and  age  of  the 
world  when  the  cornucopia  of  heav- 
en has  been  poured  out  and  the 
blessings  of  heaven  both  temporal 
and  spiritual,  have  been  showered 
down  upon  us  all. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be 
upon  us,  and  in  our  hearts.  May 
our  greatest  sermons  be  spoken  in 
our  daily  lives.  God  bless  you  all, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 

(Late  President  of  the  Mexican  Mis- 
sion.) 

I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  time  is  far  past,  and  I 
merely  desire  to  bear  testimony  to 
the  fact  that  I  know  that  the  gospel 
is  true ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that 
Joseph  F.  Smith  is  inspired  of  the 
Lord  for  the  work  that  he  has  to  do. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  follow  the 
counsel  of  our  leaders,  these  men 
of  God,  and  to  live  according  to  the 
gospel,  and  have  a  burning  testi- 
mony of  it  always  in  their  hearts, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem, 
'Mighty  Jehovah." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  in 
front  of  the  Bureau  of  Information 
Building,  Benjamin  Gor1dard,  pres- 
ident of  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
presided.   The  music  was  furnished 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART. 


95 


by  the  Latter-day  Saints  University 
choir,  B.  Cecil  Gates,  directing. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"We  thank  Thee,  O  God  for  a 
Prophet." 

Prayer  by  Rider  Joshua  Green- 
wood. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Come,  come,  ye  saints,  no  toil  nor 
labor  fear." 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART. 

(President  of  the  Rigby  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  To  say  that  I  am  sur- 
prised to  be  called  upon  to  occupy 
this  position  this  morning,  I  assure 
you  is  putting  it  very  mildly.  I  am 
here  because  I  was  sent,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  it  is  the  duty  of  every 
Latter-day  Saint  to  do  their  bit  in 
the  furtherance  of  the  cause  of  this 
great  Church  to  which  we  belong, 
just  as  it  is  for  us  to  do  our  bit 
when  we  are  calle  1  upon  to  defend 
the  Nation  in  which  we  live  when 
it  is  in  trouble. 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  strength- 
ened by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I 
can  assure  you  that  I  feel  fortified 
with  the  knowledge  of  those  of  my 
brethren  who  are  here  to  assist  in 
this  service  this  morning,  and  I 
know  that  the  Lord  will  bless  them 
and  us  all,  and  that  we  will  feel  that 
our  coming  together  has  not  been 
a  failure,  even  if  we  are  called  upon 
to  hold  our  services  in  the  open  air. 

I  was  impressed  with  the  opening 
address  of  the  President  of  our 
Church,  at  our  conference,  and  the 
addresses  of  our  brethren  who  fol- 
lowed. The  theme  advance!  by 
them  has  been  in  my  mind  for  some 
time,  that  we  should  pay  our  re- 
spects, show  our  loyalty,  extend  our 
appreciation   to   those   whom  the 


Lord  has  placed  in  authority  over 
his  Church  and  over  his  people  in 
the  dispensation  in  which  we  live. 
I  am  thankful  for  the  great  men 
who  preside  over  the  Church  now. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  President,  for 
his  Counselors,  for  the  Twelve,  for 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  for  the 
Presidents  of  Seventies,  and  all 
good  men  who  have  spent  so  much 
of  their  time  in  the  interests  of  hu- 
manity ;  I  know  that  it  is  fitting  and 
right  that  we  should  express  our 
feelings  and  our  minds  along  this 
line  while  those  brethren  are  with 
us,  and  not  wait  until  they  have 
passed  beyond.  Therefore,  I  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  goodness  of 
these  men,  to  the  efficient  admini- 
stration that  they  are  giving  this 
great  Church  and  the  people  of  the 
Lord  who  have  embraced  this  gos- 
pel. 

I  come  from  the  Rigby  stake  of 
Zion,  a  stake  situated  in  southern 
Idaho.  When  I  went  there  some 
twenty-one  years  ago,  I  found  a 
wilderness,  a  desert.  Practically  on 
the  very  spot  that  was  desert  at  that 
time,  three  weeks  ago  it  was  our 
pleasure  to  have  with  us  President 
Smith,  President  Lund,  President 
Grant,  and  Bishop  Nibley,  to  assist 
in  dedicating  a  new  stake  tabernacle 
that  we  built  last  year.  This  build- 
ing seated,  and  we  had  present  at 
our  afternoon  session,  2,755  people, 
where  25  years  ago  was  nothing  but 
sagebrush.  I  mention  this,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  may 
know  that  Zion  is  growing  and 
spreading ;  and  this  is  only  one  of 
the  stakes  out  of  probably  15  others 
so  organized  in  that  great  state  of 
Idaho,  adjoining  Utah  on  the  north. 

I  am  proud  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  I  am  proud  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  me  with  sufficient  courage 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  faith  to  be  true  to  its  principles, 
to  be  true  to  the  cause.  I  have  al- 
ways taken  great  pleasure,  and  have 
been  delighted  whenever  an  oppor- 
tunity has  presented  itself  to  me  to 
explain  unto  my  fellow  men  the 
principles  of  life  and  salvation  that 
have  been  revealed  to  us  in  this  dis- 
pensation. 

It  was  only  a  short  time  ago, 
while  visiting  in  the  state  capital  in 
the  state  of  Idaho,  that  a  very 
prominent  man  came  up  to  my 
room,  one  with  whom  I  had  the  op- 
portunity and  privilege  of  serving 
in  the  state  senate  in  Idaho,  a  man 
highly  educated.  He  came  up  to 
my  office,  not  with  a  view  of  talk- 
ing religion,  but  I  presume  he  came 
to  talk  politics.  We  had  not  pro- 
ceeded very  long  until  our  conver- 
sation drifted  upon  those  topics, 
and  the  first  thing  he  said  to  me 
was,  "Senator,  don't  you  know  that 
there  is  now  being  a  persisent  ef- 
fort put  forth  in  this  state  by  a  cer- 
tain religious  organization  to  con- 
trol its  politics?"  I  said,  "Sena- 
tor, I  am  surprised  to  hear  that 
statement ;  I  thought  the  only  fear 
that  was  contained  in  the  hearts  of 
the  citizens  of  Idaho  of  any  Church 
controling  the  politics  of  our  state 
was  the  'Mormon'  Church."  "O," 
he  said,  "you  are  mistaken." 

That  opened  the  conversation.  I 
asked  him  what  religion  he  pro- 
fessed. He  said  he  was  a  member 
of  the  Christian  Science  Church.  I 
told  him  I  was  gald  to  know  that, 
that  I  knew  a  great  many  people 
who  were  broad-minded  who  were 
members  of  that  church,  and  I  was 
glad  to  know  that  he  belonged  to 
that  organization. 

He  told  me  what  a  wonderful 
lecturer  appeared  in  the  capital  city 
last  year,  and  he  explained  the  God 
they  worship,  and  he  said,   "I  took 


one  of  your  members  up  and  intro- 
duced him  to  him  after  the  services 
were  over,  and  he  said  he  thought 
the  talk  was  very  nice,  but  he  did 
not  understand  the  kind  of  God 
that  had  been  portrayed  to  them 
during  that  service."  I  said,  "No, 
he  would  not  understand  that,  be- 
cause you  believe  in  an  immaterial 
being  as  your  God.  A,s  Latter-day 
Saints  —  'Mormons,'  as  we  are 
known — we  believe  that  God  is  a 
material  being,  an  exalted,  im 
mortal  man.  He  was  once  as  we 
are,  and  it  is  possible  for  us  to  at- 
tain to  the  heights  that  he  has  now 
attained ;  and  we  base  our  faith  on 
the  circumstance  that  transpired  in 
the  death,  crucifixion,  and  resur- 
rection of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ.  When  he  came  forth, 
there  were  evidently  people  on  the 
earth,  his  followers,  who  did  not 
have  a  correct  understanding  of 
this  being  we  call  God,  and  before 
Jesus  left,  it  was  his  will,  that  his 
■disciples  should  know  what  kind  of 
a  being  God  was,  that  when  Christ 
should  leave  them  he  might  leave 
them  united  with  regard  to  this 
great  principle,  because  we  are  told 
that  in  order  to  obtain  eternal  life 
we  must  know  Jesus  Christ  the  Son 
of  the  Living  God,'  and  we  must 
know  God  the  Father,  before  we 
can  intelligently  and  consistently 
worship  him.  I  turned  to  the  Bible, 
and,  by  the  way,  I  always  carry  my 
Bible  and  other  Church  works  with 
me,  I  have  them  in  the  hotel 
now,  though  I  don't  always 
read  them.  T  always  feel  forti- 
fied when  I  have  them  with  me. 
I  got  my  Bible,  and  I  read  to  him 
where  the  Savior  appeared  to  his 
disciples,  and  told  them  to  bring 
meat  and  give  him  something  to 
eat;  and  he  did  eat  and  drink  with 
them,  and  invited  them  to  come  for- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART. 


97 


ward  and  put  their  fingers  in  the 
holes  in  his  hands,  saying,  "Handle 
me,  because  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh 
and  bones  as  ye  see  me  have." 

"Now,"  I  said,  "you  may  see 
that  there  were  evidently  people 
then,  even  in  the  days  of  Christ, 
who  were  with  him  personally,  who 
entertained  the  same  views  errone- 
ously, as  you  and  a  great  many  oth- 
er conscientious  people  do,  concern- 
ing the  kind  of  being  that  God  is. 
Thomas  was  not  present,  and  rfe 
was  not  satisfied  to  accept  the  testi- 
mony of  the  other  disciples,  hence  it 
was  necessary  that  the  Savior  come 
and  present  himself  to  Thomas 
that  he  might  also  understand. 

And  when  I  finished  with  him,  he 
turned  to  me  and  said,  "I  am  sur- 
prised. I  never  knew  there  was 
anything  like  that  in  the  Bible.  You 
certainly  have  some  substantial  evi- 
dence on  which  to  base  your  the- 
ory." 

He  asked  me  what  I  thought 
about  the  incident  of  Christ  upon 
the  cross,  when  the  thief  acknowl- 
edged him  and  Christ  promised 
him,  "Today  shalt  thou  be  with  me 
in  paradise." 

"How  do  you  explain  it?"  he 
said.  I  said,  "Let  the  Apostle 
Peter  explain  that  to  you."  The 
thief  did  not  go  to  heaven  as  mod- 
ern Christians  claim  that  he  did, 
but  to  a  place  of  departed  spirits, 
as  the  Savior  did  during  the  three 
days  that  his  spirit  was  separated 
from  his  body. 

I  referred  to  several  other  things, 
but  he  was  called  away  before  we 
finished  our  conversation.  About 
three  weeks  after,  I  received  a  let- 
ter from  him  something  like  this : 
"My  dear  Mr.  Hart,  The  little  con- 
versation that  we  had  on  topics  in 
the  hotel  during  your  visit  in  Boise 


has  made  one  of  the  greatest  im- 
pressions upon  my  mind  of  any- 
thing I  have  known  in  the  religious 
line  yet,  and  I  am  anxious  to  know 
more  about  your  gospel  and  doc- 
trine." 

1  mention  this,  my  brethren  an  1 
sisters,  to  show  that  it  is  our  duty  to 
be  alert  at  all  times,  ready  to  defend 
this  great  cause,  because  the  Lord 
lias  entrusted  it  to  our  care,  and 
placed  the  responsibility  on  our 
shoulders.  I  want  to  testify  to  you 
that  I  have  never  lost  anything  in 
this  way,  in  any  shape  or  form.  I 
have  never  lost  my  standing  among 
my  non-"Mormon"  friends  on  ac- 
count of  defending  at  all  times  the 
Church  to  which  we  belong.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  you  never 
will.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  this. 
This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  and  in 
it  I  have  always  taken  great  pleas- 
ure. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  that 
we  may  be  valiant  in  the  cause,  that 
we  may  be  brave  and  willing  to 
meet  all  people,  and  defend  this 
cause  in  which  we  have  enlisted,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD. 

(President  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake.) 

This  is  certainly  a  very  inspiring 
audience  assembled  in  the  open  air 
at  this  meeting,  and  I  pray,  for  the 
few  moments  that  I  stand  before 
you,  that  T  may  enjoy  the  inspira- 
tion of  our  heavenly  Father. 

At  every  conference  of  the 
Church  there  seems  to  me  to  be 
some  special  message  to  the  Saints, 
and  at  this  conference,  the  thought 
that  has  come  to  me  is  this,  that  in 
our  day  we  have  prophets  of  God. 
who  speak  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  to  the  people,  and  that  we 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


should  hearken  unto  them.  We 
read  in  the  ancient  scriptures  that 
one,  a  very  wise  man,  said  that  a 
prophet  is  not  without  honor  save 
in  his  own  country.  How  true  this 
is!  It  is  as  true  today  as  it  v/as 
when  it  was  first  spoken.  When  I 
heard  the  testimonies  of  our  leading 
brethren,  concerning  the  prophets 
of  this  dispensation  and  their  min- 
istry, this  thought  came  to  me,  that 
now,  when  some  of  the  modern 
prophets  are  dead,  we  are  begin- 
ning to  look  to  their  words  and 
take  heed,  while  probably  in  the  day 
in  which  they  were  spoken,  they 
were  not  heeded  to  such  an  extent. 

Tt  is  a  very  strange  thing  that  in 
order  that  we  shall  pay  respect  an'! 
reverence  for  the  prophets  of  God, 
that  they  must  be  ancient  or  must 
have  lived  hundreds  of  years  ago. 
We  will  go  to  the  scriptures  and 
read  what  the  prophets  have  said 
thousands  of  years  ago,  and  ponder 
over  their  words  and  try  to  under- 
tand  what  was  meant  by  what  they 
said ;  and  yet  today,  when  the 
prophets  speak  to  us,  we  do  not 
take  that  same  care,  and  we  do  not 
pay  that  same  reverence  to  their 
words.  This  is  a  human  failing, 
and  I  take  it  that  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  the  people  today  is  this, 
"Hearken  unto  the  words  of  the 
prophets  of  God  who  are  among 
you.  Listen  to  their  warning  voice, 
for  they  speak  the  word  of  God 
just  as  truly  as  did  the  prophets  of 
old." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  today  are 
reading  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  probably  to  a  greater  ex- 
tent than  it  has  ever  been  read. 
Why?  Because  they  are  just  be- 
ginning to  find  out  that  God  re- 
vealed to  his  servant,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  many  things  pertain- 


ing to  this  world  and  to  the  condi- 
tion of  the  world,  and  the  things 
that  were  about  to  come  upon  the 
rations  of  the  earth.  We  read  it 
before,  but  we  paid  little  attention 
to  it.  We  did  not  attach  the  im- 
portance to  it  some  years  ago  that 
wcdo  today,  and  when  I  heard  in 
the  tabernacle  yesterday  extracts 
from  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Coveants,  I  was  impressed  how  lit- 
erally the  words  of  the  Lord, 
through  his  servant  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  are  being  fulfilled 
right  in  our  day.  We  know  it,  we 
testify  to  it,  awl  the  half  has  not 
yet  been  told. 

Search  the  scriptures,  modern 
scriptures  as  well  as  ancient,  and 
there  you  will  find  food  that  will 
be  profitable  for  you  to  digest,  and 
to  profit  thereby.  Hear  the  words 
of  the  Lord  as  they  are  given  to 
you  through  his  servants,  and  then 
you  will  be  prepared  for  the  things 
that  are  about  to  come  to  you  and 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  My 
testimony  to  you  today,  my  breth- 
ren and  .sisters  and  those  who  may 
not  be  members  of  the  Church,  is 
that  there  are  today  men  who  are 
prophets  of  God,  just  as  much  as 
any  who  have  lived  formerly  upon 
the  face  of  this  earth,  and  they 
speak  the  word  of  God  to  you. 
Their  words  are  full  of  meaning, 
full  of  light,  and  if  you  take  the 
same  care  and  patience,  and  have 
the  same  faith  in  what  they  say, 
as  we  exercise  in  what  has  been 
said  thousands  of  years  ago,  we  will 
be  profited  thereby.  Hear  the 
words  of  the  Lord  through  his 
servants,  and  you  will  be  blessed. 
I  bear  my  testimony  of  these  things 
to  you,  and  I  pray  God  to  make  us 
faithful,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN 


99 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  AUSTIN. 

(President  of  the  Bingham  Stake) 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  a  very  trying  or- 
deal for  me  to  follow  such  men  as 
President  Hart  and  President  Shep- 
herd, who  have  had  so  much  expe- 
rience in  public  life.  I  trust  I  shall 
be  able  to  say  a  few  words,  by  the 
aid  and  assistance  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  I  bear  testimony  to  the 
truths  that  have  been  spoken  by 
these  men. 

I  learn  that  the  keynote  of  this 
conference,  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  that  they  shall  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord;  that  they 
shall  be  obedient  unto  those  things 
that  we  have  been  called  to  and 
have  accepted. 

In  the  Mutual  Improvement 
meeting  this  morning,  we  were  dis- 
cussing, in  addition  to  this,  some  of 
our  duties  as  citizens  of  this  great 
nation  of  which  we  form  a  part; 
and  I  was  impressed  with  the  de- 
sire of  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
to  stimulate  loyalty  in  the  hearts  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  our  Na- 
tion in  this  day  of  our  tribulations. 
Our  special  attention  was  called, 
my  friends,  to  the  purchasing  of 
Liberty  Bonds,  this  second  issue  of 
Liberty  Bonds  now  being  placed 
before  the  American  people  for 
purchase.  A  resolution  was  passed 
there  this  morning  that  we  would 
all  do  our  uttermost  in  the  pur- 
chase of  these  bonds.  We  would 
not  only  advise  our  friends  and 
neighbors,  but  we  would  purchase 
ourselves,  and  would  show  our  loy- 
alty by  our  actions.  We  have  al- 
ways believed,  and  it  has  always 
been  the  doctrine  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  "Mormonism"  should 
be  reflected  in  the  lives  of  its  peo- 
ple. 


Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
am  delighted  with  the  growth  and 
development  of  this  Church,  with 
the  testimony  of  our  brethren  con- 
cerning increased  desires  for  right- 
eousness and  good  works. 

I,  too,  come  from  the  north,  and 
I  am  a  neighbor  of  President  Hart 
and  President  Shepherd,  and  I 
want  to  testify  to  the  truthfulness 
of  President  Hart's  words  concern- 
ing the  growth  and  development  of 
the  Latter-day  work  in  that  coun- 
try. We  have  today  in  the  sixteen 
stakes  of  Zion  in  Idaho,  80,000  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Nearly  all  of  them 
have  gone  there  and  have  grown  up 
there  in  the  last  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  years.  We  are  endeavoring  to 
do  our  part  to  wield  an  influence 
among  those  people,  that  shall  be 
calculated  to  place  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  their  proper  light;  and 
,ve  are  successful,  we  are  laboring 
and  living  in  peace  and  quietude 
with  our  neighbors.  There  is  no 
contention,  the  old  anti-"Mormon" 
feeling  that  used  to  exist  a  few 
years  ago  is  all  passed  away  and  we 
hear  nothing  of  it  any  more.  We 
are  pleased  at  this  condition,  we  rec- 
ognize the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  it, 
and  we  recognize  that  the  Lord  has 
brought  our  opposers  to  a  better 
understanding  of  the  motives  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints ;  and  when  our 
motives  are  understood  by  those  not 
of  us,  they  will  judge  us  righteous- 
ly and  give  us  the  credit  due  us. 

You  know,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, what  "Mormonism"  stands  for 
— for  the  ideal  type  of  citizenship, 
for  the  ideal  type  of  good  living, 
better  living,  the  proper  rearing  of 
our  children,  that  we  may  make 
not  only  consistent  Latter-day 
Saints  of  our  boys  and  girls,  but  the 
most  ideal  citizens,  loyal  to  our 
land,  our  flag,  and  able  and  willing 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  defend  the  country.  We  of  all 
other  people  believe  in  the  divin- 
ity of  the  Constitution  of  the  Unit- 
ed States.  There  is  no  other  peo- 
ple who  believe  that  the  Lord  in- 
spired men  to  write  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  as  do  the 
Latter-day  Saints ;  and  we  believe 
that  this  great  instrument  shall  be 
perpetuated,  and  that  the  liberties 
of  the  people  of  this  country  shall 
always  be  maintained.  We  believe 
that  this  is  a  land  preserved  by  the 
Lord  until  this  day  and  generation 
when  he  should  re-establish  his 
work.  With  these  ideals,  we  could 
not  do  anything  else  than  right,  i 
shall  give  way  because  you  are  all 
waiting  to  hear  Major  Roberts  talk 
to  you.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

A  solo  was  sung  by  a  member  of 
the  choir,  entitled,  "Kind  words  are 
sweet  tones  of  the  heart." 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am 
indeed  happy  to  have  this  opportu- 
nity of  meeting  you  and  addressing 
you  on  this  occasion. 

We  are  living  in  times  that  are 
the  most  trying  through  which  the 
world  has  ever  passed ;  but  also,  we 
are  living  in  the  most  splendid  time 
that  the  world  has  ever  seen.  I  do 
not  envy  the  ancient  patriarchs 
named  in  the  Bible,  as  belonging 
to  the  Patriarchal  period  of  our 
world's  history ;  I  do  not  envy  the 
people  who  lived  in  the  classic 
lands,  and  in  the  heroic  times  of 
Greece  or  Rome,  at  the  height  of 
their  splendor.  I  do  not  envy  the 
men  who  lived  in  the  clays  of  chiv- 
alry, in  the  Middle  Ages,  when  the 
individual  man,  and  his  prowess 
counted  for  so  much.  None  of  those 


periods  of  time  was  as  splendid  as 
the  period  in  which  we  live;  and 
the  opportunities  of  those  ages 
were  not  equal  to  the  opportunities 
of  today. 

I  do  not  know  how  it  comes 
about,  but  every  day  thrills  me  with 
emotions  of  gratitude  that  I  am  liv- 
ing now,  and  that  in  a  very  small 
and  humble  way  I  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  doing  the  things  that  are 
appointed  unto  me  to  do,  and  1 
think  that  that  can  be  true  of  the 
humblest  citizen  of  this  great  re- 
public— for  there  are  none  so  hum- 
ble in  life  that  they  are  deprived  of 
participating  in  the  greatness  and  • 
in  tiie  glory  of  these  days.  And  yet, 
I  recognize  the  fact  that  we  live  in 
a  day  when  destructive  forces  are 
in  operation,  when  men's  minds  are 
troubled  because  of  the  things  which 
apparently  are  coming  upon  the 
earth.  I  realize  that  it  is  a  day  of 
great  sacrifice,  when  the  people  are 
called  upon  to  lay  upon  the  altar 
of  their  country  the  richest  gifts 
that  God  has  given  to  them ;  and  as 
I  have  witnessed  the  sorrows  of 
mothers  who  feel  that  they  are  sac- 
rificing their  sons,  dearer  to  them  . 
than  all  the  wealth  of  the  world, 
I  have  sympathized  with  them,  but 
I  have  also  congratulated  them  in 
my  heart  upon  the  opportunities 
that  have  come  to  them  to  give  ex- 
pression to  the  nobility  of  their 
souls  by  the  sacrifices  they  make. 

We  are  in  a  period  in  the  world's 
history  of  very  great  disturbance, 
when  action  is  intense,  when  change 
is  continuous.  I  glory  in  that,  be- 
cause I  believe  that  action  means 
purification.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
in  one  of  his  revelations  to  the 
Church,  asks  this  question,  or  at 
least  the  Lord  asks  it  through  him  • 
"How  long  can  rolling  waters  re- 
main impure?"    It  is  the  stagnant 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


101 


waters  that  breed  miasmas,  and 
that  become  dangerous  to  the 
health  of  communities.  The  glo- 
rious stream  that  dashes  'down 
the  mountain  gorge  and  flows  over 
precipices  in  waterfalls,  and  then 
sjoes  rushing  down  the  rapids, 
broken  into  spray,  kissed  by  the  sun- 
light and  purified  by  its  exposure 
to  the  air,  in  its  great  race  for  the 
ocean — such  waters  quickly  purify 
themselves ;  and  so  do  peoples,  so 
does  a  world  in  commotion,  in  in- 
tense action.  It  means  for  the 
world  cleansing,  purification :  it 
means  a  march  of  progress.  And 
we  want  to  keep  this  in  mind,  that 
back  of  all  the  turmoil  and  com- 
motion that  comes  with  this  war 
period  in  which  we  live.  God  stands, 
and  his  law  obtains.  We  want  to 
nossess  our  souls  in  absolute  con- 
fidence that  we  live  under  law,  and 
that  law  operates  in  the  midst  of 
destructive  forces  as  well  as  in  the 
operation  of  constructive  forces.  In 
my  own  reflections,  I  have  come  to 
a  verv  hapny  state  of  mind.  In 
*he  midst  of  all  this  strife,  I  have 
learned  to  remember  that  God  lives 
in  his  universe,  that  he  is  every- 
where present  with  widely  diffused 
influence  and  power,  upholding  all 
things,  and  that  destructive  forces 
will  not  go  beyond  what  his  wis- 
dom shall  decree  to  be  their  bounds. 

On  this  subject  I  think  there  is  a 
fine,  even  a  sublime,  passage  in  one 
of  our  revelations,  that  I  would  like 
to  read  to  you  : 

"All  kingdoms  have  a  law  given: 
and  there  are  many  kingdoms;  for 
there  is  no  space  in  the  which  there  is 
no  kingdom;  and  there  is  no  kingdom 
in  which  there  is  no  space,  either  a 
greater  or  a  lesser  kingdom.  And  un- 
to every  kingdom  is  given  a  law;  and 
unto  every  law  there  are  certain 
hounds  also  and  conditions." 


This  revelation  joins  most  admir- 
ably in  a  deduction  made  by  a  prom- 
inent writer,  the  author  of  Natural 
Law  in  the  Spiritual  World — 
Henry  Drummond.  In  that  work, 
the  author  says,  "There  is  no  finer 
generalization  made  than  this,  that 
even  law  is  governed  by  law."  In 
other  words,  as  it  is  expressed  here 
in  the  revelation  I  just  read,  "Unto 
every  law  there  are  certain  bounds 
also  and  conditions."  And  back  of 
the  law  always  is  the  Lawgiver, 
greater  than  the  law,  since  it  has  its 
source  from  him. 

"All  beings  who  abide  not  in  those 
conditions  [prescribed  by  law]  are 
not  justified; 

"For  intelligence  cleaveth  unto  in- 
telligence; wisdom  receiveth  wisdom; 
truth  embraceth  truth;  virtue  loveth 
virtue;  light  cleaveth  unto  light; 
mercy  hath  compassion  on  mercy, 
and  claimeth  her  own:  justice  contin- 
ueth  its  course,  and  claimeth  its  own; 
judgment  goeth  before  the  face  of 
him  who  sitteth  upon  the  throne,  and 
governeth  and  executeth  all  things: 

"Fie  comprehendeth  all  things,  and 
•ill  things  are  before  him,  and  all 
tlr'ngs  are  round  about  him:  and  he 
is  above  all  things,  and  in  all  things, 
and  is  through  all  things,  and  is  round 
about  all  things;  and  all  things  are  by 
him,  and  of  him,  even  God,  for  ever 
and  ever. 

"And  aga'n,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
he  hath  given  a  law  unto  all  things 
by  which  they  move  In  their  times 
and  their  seasons; 

"And  their  courses  are  fixed;  even 
the  courses  of  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  which  comprehend  the  earth 
and  all  the  planets; 

"And  they  give  light  to  each  other  in 
their  times  and  in  their  seasons,  in 
their  minutes,  in  their  hours,  in  their 
days,  in  their  weeks,  in  their  months, 
in  their  years:  all  these  are  one  year 
with  God,  but  not  with  man. 

"The  earth  rolls  upon  her  wings, 
and  the  sun  giveth  his  light  by  day, 
and  the  moon  giveth  her  light  by 
night,  and  the  stars  also  giveth  their 
light,  as  they  roll  upon  their  wings 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  their  glory,  in  the  midst  of  the 
power  of  God.    *    *  * 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
that  which  is  governed  by  law  is  also 
preserved  by  law,  and  perfected  and 
sanctified  by  the  same." 

I 

That  conveys  to  us  the  splendid 
thought,  I  think,  that  we  live  under 
the  reign  of  law.  Nothing  is  go- 
ing to  happen  in  this  world  but 
what  shall  be  under  the  dominion 
of  law.  Even  the  destructive  forces 
themselves  have  their  bounds  and 
limitations  fixed  by  the  decree  of 
God — the  law. 

The  astronomers  tell  us  that 
away  off  in  the  dim  distance,  so  far 
away  in  the  space  depths  that  we 
may  form  no  comprehension  of  the 
distance,  they  have  the  evidence 
that  here  and  there  a  world  seems 
sometimes  to  be  blotted  out  of  ex- 
istence, and  that  which  was  appar- 
ent to  their  vision  has  disappeared 
— destroyed.  So  that,  fixed  as  seem 
to  be  the  stars  above  in  the  night 
time,  regular  as  they  move  in  their 
courses,  holding  so  far  as  man 
knows,  from  age  to  age,  still  there 
come  changes  in  those  vast  crea- 
tions and  they  are  broken  up  and 
destroyed. 

This,  too,  is  spoken  of  in  one  of 
our  revelations  in  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price.    Listen  to  it: 

"Behold  there  are  many  worlds  that 
have  passed  away  by  the  word  of  my 
power  *  *  *  and  there  are  many 
which  now  stand  *  *  *  the  heav- 
ens are  many,  and  they  cannot  be 
numbered  unto  me,  for  they  are  mine, 
and  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and 
the  heavens  thereof,  even  so  shall  an- 
other come;  and  there  is  no  .end  to 
my  works,  neither  to  my  words.  For 
behold  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal,  life  of  man." 

The  Lord  has  revealed,  then,  that 
worlds  pass  away.    In  this  same 


passage  it  is  written  that  there  are 
many  worlds  that  now  stand  and 
that  there  are  many  that  have 
passed  away.  In  other  words,  de- 
structive forces  are  in  operation  as 
well  as  constructive  and  maintain- 
ing forces.  What  I  want  to  im- 
press upon  your  minds  here  and 
now  is  that  these  destructive  forces 
are  under  the  dominion  of  law,  and 
that  the  whole  scheme  of  things  is 
under  the  hand  and  rule  and  au- 
thority and  power  of  God ;  that 
there  are  no  destructive  forces  op- 
erating but  what  contain  in  them- 
selves the  prophecy  of  reconstruc- 
tion— that  when  a  world  in  a  cer- 
tain course  of  its  development  has 
reached  the  highest  attainment  that 
can  be  hoped  for  it  under  condi- 
tions that  have  prevailed,  behold 
this  condition  shall  pass  away — de- 
struction comes,  but  only  to  use 
these  materials  in  reconstructing 
better,  and  for  the  attainment  ot 
higher  and  nobler  purposes. 

I  have  said  this  much  because 
we  may  consider  ourselves  just  now 
as  standing  in  the  midst  of  a  de- 
structive period  in  the  world's  his- 
tory. So  indeed  we  are,  but  I  am  not 
afraid  of  those  destructive  forces, 
because  I  have  this  faith,  that  these 
destructive  forces  are  under  the  con- 
trol of  God,  and  that  they  mean  the 
reconstruction  of  better  things  for 
the  world;  and  out  of  this  mael- 
strom of  war  and  famine  and  waste 
— waste  of  human  life,  waste  of 
human  treasure,  waste  apparently 
of  the  accumulations  of  civilization 
through  many  ages,  there  shall 
come  even  greater  and  higher 
things.  There  shall  come  larger 
liberty  to  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth ;  there  shall  come  a  more  pro- 
found security  and  joy  of  life,  of 
liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happi- 
ness.   There  shall  come  a  better 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


distribution  of  the  wealth  that  is 
created  by  a  combinaiton  of  the  ef- 
forts of  men,  by  their  daily  toil  and 
the  supply  of  the  capital  that  makes 
possible  the  labors  of  men's  hands. 
And  so  I  look  forward  to  better 
times,  to  improved  conditions,  and 
out  of  this  crucible  through  which 
the  world  is  passing  and  being  tried 
as  gold  seven  times  tried  in  the  fire 
— I  anticipate  the  development  of 
larger  opportunities  and  greater 
blessings  than  the  world  has  yet 
known. 

Do  we  not  sing  sometimes,  "Sac- 
rifice brings  forth  the  blessings  of 
heaven"  ?  And  do  '  you  know,  I 
have  got  it  in  my  mind  that  there  is 
some  proportion  between  the  bless- 
ings that  are  to  come  and  the  sac- 
rifices that  are  made  for  those  bless- 
ings. Isn't  that  a  reasonable  con- 
clusion? Well,  if  it  is  a  reasonable 
conclusion,  and  if  the  promises  are 
true,  then  from  that  view  point  what 
may  not  the  world  hope  for  in  the 
matter  of  blessings  in  the  presence 
of  the  enormous  sacrifices  now  be- 
ing made  by  the  children  of  men? 
If  the  blessings  to  come  shall  be 
somewhat  commensurate  with  the 
sacrifices  that  have  been  made  by 
the  nations  of  the  earth  during  the 
last  three  years  of  strife  and  war 
and  sacrifice,  it  seems  to  me  that 
the  earth  itself  will  not  be  able  to 
contain  the  blessings  that  God  is  de- 
signing for  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  after  they  shall  be  cleansed 
by  this  maelstrom  of  sacrifice  and 
judgment  that  is  passing  over  the 
world. 

And  so,  I  am  happy,  happy  to 
live  in  this  day  of  the  purification 
of  the  nations  of  the  earth,  happy 
to  live  in  the  days  that  shall  see  a 
further  purification  of  our  own  na- 
tion and  people.  I  am  well  satisfied 
with  our  nation.    No  nation  in  the 


history  of  this  world  ever  drew  the 
sword  in  a  more  righteous  cause 
and  in  a  more  unselfish  spirit,  and 
with  greater  desire  to  benefit  hu- 
manity, than  our  nation  has  done  in 
the  present  instance.  If  there  ever 
was  a  holy  war  in  this  world,  you 
may  account  the  war  that  the  Unit- 
ed States  is  waging  against  the  Im- 
perial Government  of  Germany  as 
the  most  righteous  and  holy  of 
wars.  We  have  not  entered  it  for 
conquest,  we  have  not  entered  it  for 
the  purpose  of  enlarging  our  bor- 
ders and  appropriating  the  lands  or 
wealth  of  other  people.  In  advance, 
the  present  administration  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States 
declared  we  wanted  no  indemnities. 
We  asked  for  none  of  the  territory 
of  other  nations,  we  did  not  wage 
this  war  in  the  spirit  of  revenge  for 
injuries  inflicted  upon  our  citizen- 
ship, or  upon  our  rights  upon  the 
high  seas.  We  simply  drew  the 
sword  in  this  case,  that  the  nations 
of  the  earth  should  be  free  from 
the  terror  of  militarism,  from  the 
tyranny  of  would-be  masters  of  the 
world;  we  simply  desire  to  see  the 
nations  put  in  the  way  of  living 
their  own  lives  without  fear,  the 
weakest  as  well  as  the  strongest. 
We  drew  the  sword  of  war  against 
war  itself.  We  fight  not  that  war 
might  be  perpetuated,  but  that  war 
might  eternally  cease  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth,  and  that  men  might 
be  free  and  live  their  lives  uninter- 
rupted by  fear  of  the  oppressor. 
Can  you  name  a  more  righteous  war 
than  that  ?  And  shall  we  not  be  de- 
voted to  our  country  and  to  this 
cause  of  freedom? 

Here  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants is  a  statement  that  I  have  read 
I  reckon  five  hundred  times,  and 
yet  I  think  the  truth  of  it  never  en- 
tirely came  to  me  until  recently. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


When  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
in  exile,  driven  from  Jackson  coun- 
ty, Missouri,  and  were  bivouacked 
out  on  the  Missouri  bottoms  with 
no  covering  but  the  canopy  of 
heaven,  and  exposed  in  an  inclem- 
ent season  of  the  year  to  the  rigors 
of  the  winter  season  of  that  land, 
the  Lord,  giving  instructions  as  to 
how  they  should  proceed,  said  in 
the  course  of  that  instruction : 

"Again  I  say  unto  you  that  those 
who  have  been  scattered  by  their  en- 
emies, it  is  my  will  that  they  should 
continue  to  importune  for  redress  and 
redemption  by  the  hands  of  those 
who  are  placed  as  rulers  and  are  in 
authority  over  you,  according  to  the 
laws  and  constitution  of  the  people 
which  I  have  suffered  to  be  estab- 
lished, and  should  be  maintained  for 
se  rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh, 
according  to  just  and  holy  — inci- 
ples." 

I  have  to  confess  to  you  that 
in  times  past  when  I  read  that,  I 
thought  the  Lord  was  concerning 
himself  chiefly  with  those  who  were 
living  under  our  Constitution  and 
the  laws  that  have  been  enacted  in 
harmony  with  it;  but  behold,  here 
is  a  larger  vision  of  it,  and  one  be- 
comes astonished  that  he  did  not  see 
it  before.  Not  only  are  the 
people  blessed  to  inhabit  this 
land,  not  only  are  they  to  en- 
joy these  privileges  guaranteed  to 
us  under  this  Constitution  which 
God  founded  by  inspiring  the  wise 
men  of  that  time  to  construct  it, 
not  only  are  these  principles  of  lib- 
erty for  them,  but  as  stated  here, 
"they  should  be  maintained  for  the 
rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh." 
I  invoke  here  and  now  the  very 
word  of  God  in  this  dispensation  to 
the  righteousness  and  holiness  of 
extending  these  American  princi- 
ples of  liberty  so  that  they  shall  in- 
clude all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth. 


We  did  a  noble  thing  away  back 
yonder  in  President  Monroe's  ad- 
ministration, in  1823,  when  our 
government  then  served  notice  up- 
on the  European  powers  that  the 
republics  in  this  Western  Hemi- 
sphere were  no  longer  to  be  re- 
garded as  spheres  wherein  Euro- 
pean systems  of  government  might 
be  forced  upon  the  people  contrary 
to  their  will ;  that  those  republics 
having  declared  and  maintained 
their  independence  as  our  repub- 
lic had,  they  were  not  again  to  be 
oppressed  by  the  nations  of  Eu- 
rope. That  we  called  the  Monroe 
Doctrine,  and  'in  announcing  it,  we 
simply  stood  for  the  right  of  self- 
government  within  the  republics  of 
this  western  world.  Europe,  in 
other  words,  should  not  be  permit- 
ted to  coerce  the  republics  of  the 
western  world,  they  should  not  im- 
pose European  systems  upon  them. 
And  in  taking  that  position,  the 
government  of  the  United  States 
stood  for  the  great  principle  of 
Democracy,  in  the  western  world, 
viz.,  that  governments  derive  their 
just  powers  from  the  consent  of 
the  governed ;  that  the  people  of 
all  America  had  the  right  of  self- 
government,  and  we  would  help  to 
maintain  them  in  the  possession 
and  maintenance  of  that  right,  for 
we  said  at  that  time  that  any  at- 
tempt to  coerce  or  oppress  any  of 
those  governments  would  be  re- 
garded as  an  unfriendly  act  against 
the  United  States.  And  that  was 
the  polite  way — that  was  the  diplo- 
matic way  of  saying,  "If  you  at- 
tempt to  coerce  any  of  these  Amer- 
ican governments,  it  means  'war 
with  the  United  States."  And  so 
European  powers  let  up  at  that  time 
on  their  efforts  to  coerce  the  repub- 
lics of  the  western  world. 

What  do  we  say  now?    We  say 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  If.  ROBERTS 


105 


now,  "All  the  nations  of  the  earth 
shall  govern  themselves ;  there  shall 
arise  no  power,  however  wonderful 
the  genius  of  its  people  may  be, 
however  confident  they  may  feel  of 
their  ability  to  govern  the  world 
better  than  anybody  else,  to  forbid 
such  freedom.  We  simply  serve 
notice  upon  the  Imperial  Govern- 
ment of  Germany  and  her  allies 
that  the  principle  of  self-govern- 
ment among  the  nations  of  the  earth 
is  going  to  be  world  wide,  the  right 
of  every  nation,  the  very  weakest 
as  well  as  the  very  strongest,  to 
govern  itself  will  be  insisted  upon 
and  maintained.  So  it  is  a  world- 
wide application  of  the  old  Monroe 
Doctrine  that  America  is  about,  and 
there  is  to  be  no  desertion  of  the 
Monroe  Doctrine  at  all. 

Since  our  cause  is  righteous, 
may  we  not  hope  that  the  God  of 
battles  will  maintain  our  cause  by 
strengthening  our  hands,  by  mak- 
ing stout  our  hearts?  By  making 
invincible  our  armies  whatever 
they  may  have  to  sacrifice  in  the 
struggle  that  they  shall  engage  in? 
The  only  thing  that  I  am  con- 
cerned about  is  simply  this,  whether 
we  will  prove  ourselves  to  be 
worthy  of  the  help  and  support  of 
God.  Shall  we  feel  his  strength 
and  power  enabling  us  to  accom- 
plish the  high  purposes  that  we 
have  declared  to  be  ours  in  connec- 
tion with  our  entrance  into  this 
great  world  struggle?  I  am  con- 
fident that  the  people  will  respond 
to  the  righteousness  of  our  cause, 
and  the  admonitions  of  the  presi- 
dent of  these  United  States. 

These  reflections  indicate  to  us,  1 
hope,  a  little  why  it  is  I  feel  so  hap- 
py in  this  day  in  which  we  live ;  and 
we  pray  that  God  will  so  help  us 
that  we  shall  receive  renewed  man- 
ifestations of  his  goodness  and  his 


mercies  and  his  guiding  hand  in  the 
affairs  of  this  nation,  and  of  this 
world ;  which  world  is  God's  by 
right  of  proprietorship,  having  cre- 
ated it,  having  sustained  it,  having 
appointed  to  it  its  courses,  for  he 
has  decreed  from  the  beginning 
what  shall  be  the  far-off  end  of 
this  world  and  the  salvation  and 
glory  of  the  inhabitants  thereof. 

God  help  us  to  appreciate  the  day 
in  which  we  live,  and  to  cause  our 
spirits  to  rise  to  the  high  level  of 
these  times,  and  the  opportunities 
they  afford,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  have  been  very  greatly  im- 
pressed by  the  remarks  of  Elder 
Roberts,  with  the  grandeur,  the 
greatness,  and  the  majesty  of  God. 
He  was  quoting  from  this  good 
book  which  I  hold  in  my  hand,  The 
Pearl  of  Great  Price.  The  closing 
part  of  his  quotation  reads  as  fol- 
lows :  "For  behold  this  is  my  work 
and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man."  What  is  the  work  of  God? 
is  so  well  answered  in  these  few 
words  that  I  hardly  need  make 
further  comment ;  and  yet  we  were 
also  impressed  with  this  thought,  in 
regard  to  the  work  of  God,  when 
Elder  Roberts  pointed  out  to  us  the 
splendors  of  the  universe,  these 
heavenly  bodies  which  we  behold 
every  night  of  our  lives  when  we 
look  out  into  the  universe,  each  one 
performing  its  regular  functions  in 
its  respective  orbit,  and  when  we 
behold  the  sun  at  noonday,  and  ad- 
mire its  splendor  and  grandeur,  and 
all  these  creations  above  us,  as  well 
as  beneath  us :  the  earth  upon  which 
we  stand  :  "All  these  are  also  a  part 


106 


G EN ERA L  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  work  of  God."  Yet  great 
and  glorious  as  are  these  splendid 
creations  around  and  about  us. 
above  us  and  beneath  us,  the  great- 
ness of  the  work  of  God  is  this,  "to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
the  eternal  life  of  man." 

What  ?  you  mean  to  say  that  that 
is  a  greater  work  than  the  creation 
of  the  heavens  and  the  .earth?  By 
far,  my  brethren  and  sisters ; 
greater  than  the  making  of  a  world, 
greater  than  the  creation  of  the  uni- 
verse, is  the  bringing  to  pass  of  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  our 
Father's  children  ;  for  it  was  to  this 
end  that  these  heavenly  planets 
were  created,  a  preliminary  to  the 
accomplishment  of  God's  great 
work.  It  was  essential  that  they 
should  he  made  to  become  the  dwell- 
ing places  of  our  Father's  children ; 
and  their  habitations,  their  dwell- 
ings, their  abode  is  not  greater 
than  the  children  themselves;  and 
to  bring  to  pass  their  immortality 
and  their  eternal  life,  is  greater  than 
all  the  rest.  The  one  is  but  a  pre- 
liminary arrangement  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  that  greater  pur- 
pose. When  we  dwelt  in  the 
presence  of  the  Father,  in  that 
primeval  day  when  the  morning 
stars  sang  for  joy  and  all  the  sons 
of  God  shouted  together — it  was 
then  that  the  proclamation  was 
made  that  the  Lord  would  save  his 
children  through  obedience  to  the 
gospel,  and  give  unto  them  their 
freedom,  their  free-agency,  indi- 
cating God's  purpose  that  his  chil- 
dren should  be  free,  free  to  chose 
the  right  or  wrong  as  they  might 
elect  for  themselves.  In  the  exer- 
cise of  that  freedom,  granted  unto 
all,  the  Lord  proposed  to  bring  to 
pass  their  immortality  and  their 
eternal  life. 

What  is  the  difference  between 


immortality  and  eternal  life?  To 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  of 
man  what  is  needful?  All  men  are 
subject  to  death.  You  cannot  ac- 
complish the  immortality  of  your 
own  soul,  but  that  has  been  brought 
to  pass  through  the  atonement  of 
Christ,  for  he  said,  "Here  am  I, 
send  me."  And  the  Lord  sent  his 
Only  Begotten  Son  into  the  world, 
who  gave  his  life  that  we  might  live 
again.  He  overcame  death  and  the 
grave  ;  and  through  that  atonement 
was  brought  to  pass  that  great  part 
of  God's  work  which  we  call  the 
immortality  of  man. 

There  is  .still  something  other 
than  immortality — it  is  to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal 
life  of  man.  Well,  what  is  immor- 
tality, says  one?  Is  not  that  to  live 
on  eternally?  Indeed  it  is.  And 
eternal  life?  Does  that  not  mean 
immortality?  Yes,  eternal  life  means 
all  that  is  included  in  immortality, 
but  immortality  does  not  include 
all  that  is  meant  in  eternal  life,  and 
when  we  speak  of  eternal  life  and 
immortality,  they  are  two  separate 
things.  To  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality of  man  has  been  accom- 
plished by  the  atonement  of  Christ 
without  any  effort  upon  our  part; 
but  if  we  are  to  obtain  eternal  life, 
then  we  must  co-operate  with  God 
and  he  will  bring  to  pass  that  eter- 
nal life  in  his  presence.  To  live  not 
only  as  immortal  beings,  living  con- 
tinually, but  to  live  with  him  in  his 
celestial  kingdom,  that  is  eternal 
life,  and  can  only  be  accomplished 
through  obedience  to  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Thereby  will 
God  accomplish  this,  his  great  work, 
through  bringing  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality of  his  children  and  their 
eternal  life,  for  which  the  worlds 
were  created,  and  for  which  we 
have  come  down  in  these  mortal 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


107 


tabernacles  and  are  commanded  to 
yield  obedience  to  the  will  of  God, 
obedience  to  his  glorious  gospel,  the 
perfect  law  of  liberty  which  is  in- 
deed the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion. 

God  help  us  to  appreciate  that 
glorious  gospel  and  that  great  work 
of  our  Father  which  he  has  insti- 
tuted in  his  great  universe  for  the 
salvation,  the  exaltation,  the  eternal 
life  of  his  children.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"America." 

Benediction  was  offered  by  Elder 
Jacob  F.  Gates. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2 
p.  m.,  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
presiding.  Music  was  furnished  by 
the  Jordan  Stake  choir. 

The  hymn,  "The  Mighty  God 
appearing,"  was  sung. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Peter  L.  Bronson. 

An  anthem,  "In  our  Redeemer's 
name,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

I  observe  unrest  in  the  world, 
among  the  most  learned  men  who 
themselves  are  nevertheless  deeply 
concerned  in  trying  to  find  out  God 
and  his  ways.  It  is  illustrated  in 
some  publications  that  have  ap- 
peared during  the  .present  year,  and 
that  are  attracting  wide  attention, 
such  books  as  God,  the  Invisible 
King,  written  by  Mr.  H.  G.  Wells, 


one  of  England's  foremost  writers, 
a  book  attacking  the  old  sectarian 
notions  of  God,  and  seeking  to  find 
out  a  new  kind  of  being,  arguing  in 
favor  of  a  personal  God,  and  yet 
eliminating  from  the  godhead  both 
God  the  Son  and  God  the  Holy 
Ghost.  When  I  observe  this  unrest 
and  witness  such  exhibitions  on  the 
part  of  learned  men,  my  heart 
swells  with  deep  gratitude  for  the 
testimony  that  I  have  of  the  true 
and  living  God  and  the  knowledge 
that  I  have  concerning  his  ways  and 
his  requirements.  And  when  I  look 
at  this  pathetic  scene,  I  feel  more 
thankful  for  this  testimony  than  for 
anything  else  in  the  world.  To  me 
it  is  above  all  price.  I  realize  that 
I  must  exhibit  a  sympathy  towards 
men  and  women  of  this  character 
who  have  not  been  as  fortunate  as 
I  have,  and  I  am  sur.e  that  God  will 
extend  to  them  mercy  if  they  are 
honest  in  their  searches  for  truth. 
All  who  seek  in  earnestness  for 
truth  will  ultimately  be  led  to  dis- 
cover it. 

I  find  not  only  in  the  world,  but 
to  quite  an  extent  among  us  Latter- 
day  Saints,  a  disposition  to  live  only 
in  part  the  teachings  of  the  wonder- 
ful system  which  we  thoroughly  be- 
lieve to  be  true.  We  have  not  the 
courage  nor  faith  to  adopt  all,  but 
live  up  to  that  part  of  the  gospel 
which  pleases  us,  or  that  part  which 
we  adopt.  We  have  an  idea  that 
if  we  are  faithful  in  one  or  two  of 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  it  will 
suffice.  Frequently  it  is  said  that 
all  roads  lead  to  heaven,  and 
whether  you  are  a  good  Methodist, 
or  a  good  "Mormon"  or  a  good 
Jew,  it  makes  little  difference,  but 
as  long  as  you  do  good  you  are 
along  that  road,  and  that  ultimately 
all  these  roads  lead  to  the  same 
goal. 


108 


( ; /•; .V E R.  1 1.  ( 'ON EE RENCE . 


Now  it  is  true  that  every  man 
who  does  good,  so  far  he  is  led 
towards  the  kingdom  of  God ;  but 
the  difficulty  is  that  some  of  us  will 
only  be  able  to  get  about  a  third 
of  the  way  there,  some  will  only  get 
half  way,  and  a  great  many  will 
only  get  two-thirds.  How  many 
will  get  all  the  way  to  the  kingdom 
of  God?  For  whosoever  enters  in 
will  have  come  up  by  the  straight 
and  narrow  way,  and  they  will  be 
those  who  come  up  to  the  complete 
requirements  of  the  law  and  comply 
with  that  law  in  its  fullest  extent, 
for  they,  and  they  alone  will  enter 
in;  for,  as  I  say,  "straight  is  the 
gate  and  narrow  is  the  way  that 
leadeth  to  eternal  life,  and  few 
there  be  that  find  it."  The  gospel 
is,  nevertheless,  very  broad  in  its 
provisions,  for  it  can  care  for  all 
of  those  several  classes.  Even 
those  who  go  a  part  of  the  distance 
will  be  provided  for.  You  Latter- 
day  Saints  will  recall  Paul's  descrip- 
tion of  the  kingdoms  that  the 
Father  hath  provided  for  all  his 
children  of  various  grades ;  and  in 
that  wonderful  vision  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  has 
made  it  plain  to  us  just  what  are 
those  great  divisions  about  which 
Paul  speaks.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  will  recall  that  there  is  one 
glorious  place,  the  highest  of  all,  to 
which  all  souls  may  possibly  attain, 
the  celestial  kingdom,  where  God 
and  Christ  live,  whose  glory  Paul 
has  said  was  like  unto  the  glory  of 
the  sun.  Now  we  are  informed  in 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord  todav 
that  whosoever  shall  attain  unto  this 
glory  must  keep  all  the  command- 
ments of  God.  You  remember  the 
advice  which  Peter  gave  concerning 
what,  in  addition  to  repentance, 
baptism  and  the  laying  on  of  hands, 
should    be    necessary ;    that  men 


should  add  unto  their  faith  virtue 
and  godliness,  and  brotherly  kind- 
ness, and  charity,  and  so  on.  All 
these  requirements  were  essential, 
ft  does  not  mean  that  a  man  who  is 
baptized  into  this  Church  has  any 
sure  guaranty  that  he  is  going  to 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  Not 
at  all. 

A  man  who  is  honest  with  his 
neighbor  and  with  the  Lord  and 
with  his  fellows,  has  .done  well  so 
far ;  and  yet  his  honesty  will  not 
take  him  all  the  way.  Likewise  a 
man  who  has  been  baptized  and  has 
repented  of  his  sins,  and  is  dishon- 
est, after  he  has  repented ;  he  will 
never  come  into  the  kingdom  of 
God  until  he  is  honest  to  the  very 
core,  heart  and  soul.  A  man  who 
goes  to  meeting  and  says  long 
prayers  and  yet  returns  home  to  lose 
his  temper  and  abuse  his  wife  and 
berate  his  loved  ones  will  never  get 
into  the  kingdom  of  God  until  he 
learns  to  control  his  unruly  temper. 
The  very  best  of  us  will  need  a 
probationary  state  to  finish  the  work 
of  preparation  to  go  into  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father.  If  we  do  not  do 
it  here,  just  as  sure  as  we  live  we 
will  have  to  do  it  hereafter,  and 
man)'  of  us  may  lose  the  chanct 
and  the  opportunity  of  doing  it 
hereafter.  1  don't  interpret  the 
parable  of  the  Savior  to  mean  that 
the  men  who  came  in  the  eleventh 
hour  was  to  get  the  identical  privi- 
leges and  blessings  with  the  man 
who  came  the  first  hour,  only  pro- 
vided that  he  who  appeared  at  the 
eleventh  hour  was  accepting  his 
first  chance,  his  first  opportunity. 
He  did  not  come  around  the  first 
hour,  and  go  away,  and  say,  1  will 
come  back  after  a  while  and  see  if 
there  is  still  a  job  for  me.  No, 
when  he  appeared  at  the  eleventh 
hour,  it  was  his  first  opportunity, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


109 


and  he  seized  it,  and  the  Lord  could 
not  other  than  give  him  the  privi- 
leges that  the  man  who  came  the 
first  hour  received.  And  yet,  the 
man  who  went  in  at  the  first  hour 
would  be  a  more  experienced  gar- 
dener than  the  man  who  went  in  at 
the  eleventh  hour.  The  man  who 
goes  in  at  the  eleventh  hour  would 
have  a  disadvantage  so  far  as  op- 
portunities are  concerned  over  the 
man  who  from  childhood  had  kept 
the  commandments  and  grown  up  to 
the  opportunities  of  the  gospel  all 
his  life.  He  will  stand  far  in  the 
lead  of  those  who  are  so  unfortun- 
ate as  not  to  find  the  door  until  they 
are  old.  And  yet,  the  way  is  open  to 
them  to  come,  even  in  old  age,  and 
attain  unto  all  the  privileges  of  the 
gospel.  They  must  follow  in  the 
wake  of  those  who  preceded  them. 
I  don't  understand  that  the  "Mor- 
mon" doctrine,  announced  by  Pres- 
ident Lorenzo  Snow,  and  so  often 
quoted  by  us :  "As  God  is  man  may 
become,  and  as  man  is  God  once 
was,"  means  that  all  men  are  going 
to  become  what  God  is,  not  by  any 
manner  of  means.  It  is  possible 
they  may  become ;  yes,  when  men 
keep  and  obey  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  understand,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  this  great  scheme  of  our 
Father  contemplates  that  the  privi- 
lege of  gaining  celestial  glory  has 
been  extended  to  nearly  all  of  his 
children.  There  are  a  very  few 
in  the  world  who  are  barred  from 
all  the  privileges.  Evidently  ac- 
cording to  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord,  those  races  and  divisions  ex- 
isting among  us  now,  existed  be- 
fore we  came  into  this  world,  and 
some  had  failed  to  carry  out  the  will 
of  God  and  to  conform  to  his  plans 
in  their  former  life  to  prove  them- 
selves worthy  to  receive  the  highest 


of  privileges,  namely,  salvation  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  God. 
But  the  great  majority  of  our 
Father's  children  have  yet  re- 
served unto  them  the  right,  if  they 
live  the  principles,  to  gain  an  ex- 
altation, with  its  glories  and  privi- 
leges. But  I  am  satisfied  of  the  fact 
that  those  only  who  gain  a  celestial 
"lory  will  ever  become  what  God 
is,  for  there  are  privileges  that  be- 
long to  that  glory  and  exaltation 
that  do  not  belong  to  any  other. 
We  are  advised  that  there  are  those 
who,  failing  to  reach  the  celestial 
kingdom,  will  find  themselves  only 
fitted  and  qualified  and  prepared  to 
enter  into  the  terrestrial  glory, 
which  glory  Paul  has  described  as 
like  unto  the  moon ;  and  then  still 
others  who,  failing  in  that,  those 
who  lie,  and  steal,  and  who  commit 
adultery,  and  who  repent  not  of  it  in 
this  life  and  who  fail  to  fulfil  their 
privileges  in  this  life — even  they  in 
the  world  to  come,  through  repent- 
ance, may  find  a  place  in  the  telestial 
glory,  which  is  likened  unto  the 
glory  of  the  stars.  And  only  a  few 
indeed,  the  sons  of  perdition,  shall 
be  lost  and  be  without  some  king- 
dom of  God,  and  be  turned  over  to 
so  out  with  the  devil  and  his  angels. 
When  the  Lord  wanted  to  punish 
Cain,  he  put  a  mark  upon  him,  and 
said.  Whosoever  will  look  upon  you 
will  say,  Here  is  the  murderer  of 
his  brother.  He  would  not  shut  him 
up  in  some  den  or  cave  of  the  earth, 
and  shield  him  from  the  gaze  of  his 
fellows.  And  when  Cain  realized 
the  torture  of  his  sentence,  he  said, 
"My  punishment  is  greater  than  I 
can  bear."  When  the  sons  of  per- 
dition shall  be  turned  over  to  the 
''evil  and  his  angels,  to  mingle  with 
the  billions  of  spirits,  for  there  will 
be  billions  of  them,  what  a  dis- 
tinguishing mark  for  those  who  are 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


participators  in  that  punishment,  to 
go  out  among  the  devil  and  his  an- 
gels, with  resurrected  bodies,  to  be 
a  laughing  stock  and  by-vvord  in 
that  realm  of  the  damned.  Talk 
about  hell,  the  meanest  punishment 
imaginable  will  be  that  which  will 
come  to  them  who  will  have  to  bear 
the  shame  and  the  contempt  which 
will  be  heaped  upon  them. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
what  is  your  aim  ?  To  which  place 
do  you  desire  to  go?  How  earnest 
are  you  in  this  struggle?  How 
much  are  you  willing  to  live  of 
this  precious  gospel  ?  Is  your  mark 
fixed  for  the  celestial  glory,  or  the 
telestial  glory,  the  lowest  place  ?  Is 
that  your  ambition  ?  Do  you  imag- 
ine that  by  living  a  terrestrial  law 
you  will  attain  the  celestial  glory? 
Some  of  my  brethren  and  sisters 
find  it  very  difficult  to  understand 
the  words  of  the  prophet,  wherein 
he  said  that  those  who  gain  a  lower 
place  of  glory  than  a  celestial  king- 
dom cannot  come  where  those  who 
gain  the  highest,  dwell,  worlds 
without  end.  And  there  is  an  imag- 
ination on  the  part  of  some  of  us 
that  we  could  do  our  work  over 
again,  that  we  could  catch  up,  and 
finally  get  into  the  celestial  king- 
dom. Now  to  help  you  to  ,see  it.  1 
ask  you  if  three  men  were  started 
on  an  endless  race,  and  one  given  a 
handicap  of  a  mile  and  still  another 
of  two  miles,  and  each  man  could 
run  as  fast  as  the  other,  would  one 
ever  catch  the  other?  No.  But 
there  is  a  big  difference  here. 
Those  who  live  the  laws  and  attain 
unto  the  glory  of  the  celestial  shall 
have  a  body  whose  very  fineness 
and  texture,  the  composition  of  it, 
the  quality  of  flesh  shall  be  supe- 
rior, for  the  Lord  has  said,  "there 
is  a  celestial  body,  and  celestial 
flesh,  and  there  shall  be  telestial 


bodies,  and  their  flesh  will  not  be 
so  refined  nor  so  pure,  nor  the  body 
so  capable  of  .progress  and  enjoy- 
ment and  exaltation  which  shall  be 
enjoyed  by  those  who  gain  a  ce- 
lestial body."  So  there  will  be  a 
handicap.  Those  who  gain  the 
highest  place  provided  shall  have 
a  very  superior  physical  equipment, 
capable  of  more  intense  and  rapid 
growth,  they  shall  be  associated 
with  the  very  fountain  head,  and 
those  who  inherit  a  lesser  degree  of 
glory  shall  learn  from  those  who 
attain  unto  the  highest  places,  and 
so  they  will  go  on,  and  there  will 
come  knowledge  and  .progress  to 
them  of  an  infinite  character.  Do 
we  realize  that  all  these  advantages 
can  be  obtained  through  our  wil- 
lingness and  faithfulness  in  this 
short  life,  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God  ?  That  those  who 
keep  the  celestial  law  are  pursuing 
a  path  that  leads  on  to  where  God 
is.  and  what  God  is  now  they  may 
become?  Latter-day  Saints  do  not 
need  to  sing  the  "Beautiful  Isle  of 
Somewhere,"  and  wonder  where  it 
;s.  for  the  Lord  has  revealed  that 
this  earth  is  keeping  the  celestial 
law,  and  that  we  expect  to  live  in 
a  sanctified  and  redeemed  condition 
on  this  earth,  and  all  of  it  is  going 
;o  be  celestial.  There  is  not  going 
to  be  one-third  of  it  celestial  and 
another  third  terrestrial,  and  an- 
other telestial,  but  it  will  be  ce- 
lestial, all  of  it,  and  it  will  shine  as 
the  sun.  "No  longer  will  it  have 
need,"  as  John  said  in  his  revela- 
tion, "to  have  sun  to  shine  by  day 
and  stars  by  night,"  but  it  will  be 
a  creator  of  light  itself,  or  out 
from  it  will  go  light,  and  it  will 
"rise  to  its  place"  in  that  great 
gathering  and  galaxy  of  worlds 
that  shine  above,  redeemed  and 
sanctified.    It  shall  shine  respend- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


Ill 


ent  in  its  place,  a  sun,  a  celestial 
orb,  and  only  those  who  keep  the 
celestial  law  will  enter  upon  it,  those 
who  have  bodies  that  are  telestial 
will  not  be  able  to  endure  the  glory 
and  the  majesty  of  the  kingdom 
where  our  Father  in  heaven  shall 
dwell.  I  presume  that  the  Lord  is 
.preparing  some  other  place,  maybe 
Jupiter,  a  larger  place,  no  doubt, 
than  the  world  whereon  we  now 
live,  for  his  other  groups  who  are 
not  going  to  find  themselves  worthy 
in  the  justice  of  God  to  go  into  the 
celestial  kingdom.  Now  then  how 
are  we  going  to  feel  if  we  through 
our  own  selfishness  and  unworthi- 
ness  to  attain  unto  the  highest  find 
ourselves  upon  some  terrestrial  or 
telestial  world,  away  distant  from 
this  earth?  We  could  all  say:  "I 
was  born  there  on  that  place,  and 
entitled  to  all  the  blessings  and 
privileges  that  are  theirs ;  I  was 
entitled  as  a  royal  son  to  inherit 
a  celestial  glory,  but  I  sold  my 
right,  I  lost  it,  I  frittered  away 
the  time  during  the  chance  I  had, 
and  I  am  debarred  forever  from 
that  glorious  privilege  and  place." 
We  will  realize  the  full  meaning  of 
those  words  of  the  poet  Whittier, 

"Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 
The  saddest  are  these,  it  might  have 
been." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
the  day  comes  that  we  will  seek  to 
justify  ourselves  for  our  neglect, 
our  carlessness,  our  indifference, 
because  we  do  not  keep  fully  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  we 
will  be  ashamed  of  our  excuses. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  joy  and  the 
privileges  of  the  righteous  will  be 
beyond  the  power  of  expression  to 
tell  you.    It  is  not  a  myth. 

I  know  that  these  revelations  of 


the  Lord  are  true.  I  know  the 
glory  that  awaits  the  redeemed  and 
sanctified.  The  Lord  in  his  great 
mercy  and  kindness  has  given  me 
some  little  foretaste  of  that  which 
is  to  come. 

I  had  an  experience  a  few  months 
ago,  while  laboring  on  the  Indian 
reservation,  in  Northern  Montana, 
among  my  Lamanite  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  we  had  some  new  prob- 
lems, and  calling  upon  the  Lord 
and  seeking  him  very  earnestly  to 
know  if  we  were  doing  the  right 
thing,  and  what  to  do,  and  desir- 
ous of  receiving  strength  and  light 
from  him,  I  received  to  me  a  most 
glorious  manifestation  from  the 
Lord.  I  was  carried  away  in  the 
dreams  of  the  night  to  this  glorious 
building  that  stands  on  this  block, 
and  received  what  fully  satisfied 
my  heart  and  soul  in  blessings  and 
privileges  that  came  to  me  there. 
And  when  I  was  about  to  leave  I 
was  informed  that  there  was  one 
other  privilege  which  shoul  1  be 
mine,  and  I  was  taken  into  the  most 
splendid  room  in  that  building. 
Seated  on  a  raised  platform  was 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  and  ex- 
alted beings  I  had  ever  beheld,  and 
I  was  informed  that  I  might  be  in- 
troduced to  him,  and  I  came  for- 
ward, and  as  I  did  so  he  arose  and 
descended  to  meet  me,  and  the 
smile  he  extended  towards  me  I 
shall  never  forget  through  all  the 
ages  that  are  to  come,  and  as  he 
took  me  in  his  arms  and  kissed  me 
and  hug-ged  me  to  his  bosom  and 
yave  me  a  blessing  that  made  the 
marrow  in  my  bones  to  melt,  and 
as  I  kissed  his  f  eet.  I  saw  the  prints 
of  the  nails.  The  feeling  that  came 
to  me  then  was  one  that  I  cannot 
'■escribe  other  than  to  say  that  I 
felt  unworthy  of  that  privilege.  I 
felt,  oh,  how  little  I  have  done  to 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


receive  such  distinguished  privi- 
leges as  these.  If  the  day  will  ever 
come  that  I  may  have  that  privi- 
lege I  would  be  willing  to  give  all 
that  1  ever  may  and  ever  hope  to 
he.  1  f  1  can  only  obtain  that  which 
I  have  felt  and  know  as  the  joy 
and  the  privilege  of  faithful  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  is  no  myth.  1 
know  it  as  I  live,  and  it  is  worth 
giving  everything  for.  These  days 
when  your  faith  may  be  tried, 
waver  not.  be  true  and  faithful 
towards  the  word  of  the  Lord.  I 
testify  to  you  that  it  is  true,  and 
every  promise  and  blessing  that  has 
been  sealed  upon  your  heads  you 
will  realize.  When  you  do,  it  will 
be  beyond  anything  you  have  con- 
templated in  this  life. 

God  give  us  the  strength  to  he- 
live  it,  to  live  for  it,  and  have  burn- 
ing in  our  hearts  a  desire  to  keep 
his  commandments  in  the  fullest 
sense,  not  in  part,  but  in  the  fullest 
sense,  and  in  the  end  obtain  that 
sdorious  place  and  privilege  which 
is  reserved  for  the  faithful,  which 
may  God  grant,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Irene  Folsom  sang  a  solo. 
ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

Brother  Ballard  has  eloquently 
presented  to  us  some  of  the  spirit- 
ual ideals  of  the  Church.  I  rejoice 
in  the  fact  that  the  gospel  is  very 
broad  in  its  scope,  that  it  reaches 
the  highest  spiritual  ideals  and  at 
the  same  time  deals  with  the  practi- 
cal affairs  of  life.  Some  young 
people  have  a  notion  that  religion  is 
for  the  old — those  who  are  ap- 
proachin-4  their  graves,  and  that  it 
js  not  for  the  young  and  vigorous. 


The  truth  is  that  the  gospel  is  the 
philosophy  of  true  living,  for  the 
young  as  well  as  the  old. 

Our  religion  is  of  a  practical  na- 
ture. It  has  within  it  the  power  to 
grapple  with  the  every  day  prob- 
lems of  life,  no  matter  how  they 
may  be  thrown  upon  us,  and  to  cor- 
rectly solve  these  problems.  We 
have  had  within  the  last  six  months 
an  illustration  of  this.  On  the  his- 
torical 6th  of  April,  the  official  dec- 
laration was  made  that  a  state  of 
war  existed  between  the  Imperial 
Government  of  Germany  and  the 
United  States,  and  on  that  very  day 
the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  his  coun- 
selors, and  the  Twelve,  assembled 
in  general  conference,  struck  the 
key-note  of  the  situation  so  accur- 
ately that  up  to  the  present  time  it 
can  not  be  improved  upon.  Some 
ten  days  before  the  President  of  the 
United  States  issued  his  food  pro- 
duction and  conservation  message, 
a  great  state  paper,  President  Smith 
and  the  brethren  had  given  sub- 
stantially the  same  advice  to  their 
people.  Before  President  Wilson 
set  apart  a  certain  Sabbath  day  for 
the  Sunday  school  children  of  this 
nation  to  make  contributions  to  the 
Ped  Cross,  President  Smith  and.  his 
associates  had  already  set  apart  that 
identical  Sunday  for  subscriptions 
bv  the  children  of  this  Church. 
While  President  Heber  T.  Grant  an- 
nounced in  advance  bv  way  of 
nromi.se.  that  $5,000  would  be  given 
bv  our  Sunday  school  children : 
more  than  twice  that  amount  was 
contributed  by  them. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Interior, 
Mr.  Lane,  in  his  talk  in  the  Taber- 
nacle the  other  night  gave  words 
of  encouraement  to  the  people  of 
Utah.  PTe  saul  the  people  on  the 
sidewalks  and  all  the  throng  who 
came  to  see  the  parade  of  our  sol- 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


113 


dier  boys  were  happy,  eager  and  en- 
thusiastic to  look  at.  He  saw  no 
tears,  no  sad  faces.  They  were  all 
in  .sympathy  with  the  spirit  of  the 
soldiers  who  were  parading.  Every- 
where were  smiling  faces,  showing 
a  determination  to  win  and  to 
stand  behind  the  boys.  He  said 
further  "With  your  great  develop- 
ment of  these  fruitful  valleys  in  the 
establishment  of  this  great  state, 
you  have  built  up  a  community  of 
rarely  satisfied  people."  He  did  not 
mean  by  that  word  "rarely,"  seldom, 
but  he  meant  unusually.  "Just  why 
that  is  so  I  don't  know,  but  it  is  a 
fact,  and  one  for  which  we  are  to  be 
profoundly  glad,  and  it  makes  for 
untold  wealth  of  the  people ;  and 
more  than  any  other  one  thing  is 
this  spirit  on  the  part  of  your  peo- 
ple precious.  From  Utah  we  have 
had  less  complaint  in  Washington 
about  the  use  of  the  money  that 
Uncle  Sam  is  handling  than  from 
any  other  western  state.  That  is  an 
expression  on  the  part  of  the  people, 
and  a  thing  that  stands  out  plainest 
and  show.s  patriotism  and  a  fine 
spirit  is  that  they  are  willing  to 
give."  Mr.  Lane  did  not  quite  un- 
derstand how  it  was  that  this  peo- 
ple were  so  rarely  satisfied  and  were 
demeaning  themselves  as  they  are 
in  this  great  crisis  in  our  country. 
Those  of  you  who  understand  "Mor- 
monism"  and  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  can  comprehend  it.  You 
who  have  been  taught  that  this  land, 
North  and  South  America,  is  the 
land  of  Zion,  the  land  of  Joseph, 
concerning  which  we  read  in  the 
49th  chapter  of  Genesis  and  the 
33rd  chapter  of  Deuteronomy,  and 
made  yet  plainer  by  certain  chan- 
ters of  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  and 
those  who  have  read  the  10th  chan- 
ter of  IT  Nenhi  in  reference  to  the 
destiny  of  this  country  can  under- 


stand what  we  are  contending  for 
in  this  great  world  engagement, 
when  the  Lord  said  that  there 
should  be  no  kingcraft  upon  this 
favored  land  of  Zion,  and  that  he 
would  defend  it  against  all  other 
nations.  And  then,  as  the  Patriarch 
of  the  Church  read  to  us  yester- 
day, the  ideals  for  which  we  are 
contending  are  God-given  ideals. 
He  read  from  the  101st  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  com- 
mencing about  the  79th  verse,  in 
reference  to  the  free  agency  of 
man,  and  that  wise  men  were  raised 
up  to  form  the  constitution  of  the 
United  Statest  in  order  to  establish 
these  principles,  the  principles  of 
freedom,  and  that  it  was  not  good 
for  one  man  to  be  in  bondage  to 
another.  The  history  of  the  mak- 
ing of  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States  and  its  development 
is  supported  by  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  that  it  was  divinely  inspired. 

When  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States  was  being  made, 
those  delegates  whom  the  Prophet 
tells  us  were  raised  up  for  that  pur- 
pose, realized  that  they  needed  help 
of  the  Lord  in  that  emergency. 
There  can  be  no  question  of  that. 
Benjamin  Franklin,  a  man  not 
noted  for  his  piety,  a  wise  states- 
man but  not  an  over-zealous  relig- 
ionist, the  man  who  while  in  France 
had  taken  his  own  sons  to  Voltaire, 
the  atheist,  to  be  blessed  of  him, 
realized  when  a  deadlock  existed 
for  a  considerable  time  in  the  great 
constitutional  convention,  that  it 
was  necessary  for  them  to  have  Di- 
vine aid.  You  will  remember  the 
difficulty  between  the  small  states 
and  the  large  states  as  to  what  rep- 
resentation each  should  have,  and 
when  it  appeared  no  compromise 
could  be  effected,  Beniamin  Frank- 
lin arose  and  said :  "I  have  lived 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  long  time  (he  was  then  over  80 
years  of  age),  and  the  longer  I  live 
the  more  convincing  proofs  I  see  of 
this  truth,  that  God  governs  the 
affairs  of  men ;  and  if  a  spar- 
row cannot  fall  to  the  ground 
without  his  notice,  it  is  impos- 
sible an  empire  can  rise  without 
his  aid."  And  so  he  proposed  that 
they  have  prayers ;  and  while  they 
did  not  have  formal  prayers,  I  am 
persuaded  that  there  were  many 
earnest  prayers  from  the  heart  that 
did  not  remain  unanswered,  and, 
from  the  nature  of  the  work  that 
they  did,  that  it  was  more  than 
man's  wisdom  that  prevailed.  You 
remember  what  Gladstone,  the 
great  English  premier,  said  (and 
he  was  competent  to  pass  upon  a 
question  of  that  sort,  and  certainly 
not  biased  in  our  favor)  that  it  was 
the  greatest  instrument  ever  given 
off  at  a  given  time  by  the  brain  and 
purpose  of  man.  One  jurist  has 
said,  not  just  in  the  language  of  the 
revelation,  that  wise  men  were 
raised  up  for  the  purpose  of  fram- 
ing that  constitution,  but  the  equiv- 
alent of  it,  that  "the  makers  of  the 
constitution  of  the  United  States 
were  the  goodliest  fellowship  of 
lawgivers  whereof  this  world  has 
record."  They  were  entering  upon 
a  great  work,  because  they  were 
declaring  some  new  principles  in 
p'overnment.  they  were  establishing 
that  very  principle,  that  great  prin- 
ciple that  is  now  at  issue  in  the 
world,  that  "governments  derive 
their  just  powers  from  the  consent 
of  the  governed."  That  is  the  same 
thing  that  is  mentioned  in  different 
kingnaee  in  the  101st  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  gov- 
ernments are  organized  by  men  for 
men,  deriving  their  powers  from 
men,  to  be  exercised  for  their  ben- 
efit and  good.    And  that  is  one  of 


the  great  issues  involved  today  in 
the  great  world  war.  Mr.  Bryce, 
also  an  Englishman,  who  knows 
more  of  our  constitution  than 
almost  any  other  man  not  an  Amer- 
ican (and  only  a  very  few  stand 
higher  as  an  authority  than  Lord 
Bryce)  said,  speaking  in  regard  to 
the  workings  of  the  American  com- 
monwealth, after  explaining  the 
new  things  and  the  old  things  in 
the  constitution,  that  "after  all  de- 
ductions, it  ranks  above  every  other 
constitution  for  the  intrinsic  ex- 
cellence of  its  scheme,  its  adapta- 
tion to  the  circumstances  of  the 
people,  the  simplicity,  brevity  and 
precision  of  its  language,  its  judi- 
cious mixture  and  definiteness  of 
principle,  with  elasticity  in  detail." 
That  is  the  commendation  of  a  very 
learned  and  impartial  judge  upon 
this  same  constitution  that  the  boy 
prophet  was  giving  information 
concerning. 

Just  the  other  day,  a  distinguish- 
ed American  citizen,  an  ex-presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  made  a 
declaration  in  forecasting  what 
would  be  demanded  by  the  differ- 
ent governments  when  peace  is  es- 
tablished. He  named  one  thing 
that  the  United  States  would  de- 
mand and  secure,  and  that  is  the 
perpetuation  of  the  Monroe  Doc- 
trine. And  what  is  that  but  a  coun- 
terpart of  the  doctrine  expressed  in 
the  10th  chapter  of  fl  Nephi,  to 
the  effect  that  kingcraft  shall  not 
prevail  upon  this-  land.  That  is 
what  the  Monroe  Doctrine  has  stood 
for,  that  we  could  regulate  our  own 
affairs  here  without  interference 
from  monarchies  or  empires  on  the 
other  side  of  the  waters.  And  so 
those  who  understand  these  ideas 
that  have  been  taught  to  the  Latter- 
<-1ay  Saints,  from  the  Bible  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


115 


and  Covenants,  can  understand  why 
it  is  that  this  people  should  not  be 
easily  moved  in  times  of  stress 
when  religions  are  being  tested  and 
criticized,  as  referred  to  by  Elder 
Ballard  in  the  particular  work  of 
Mr.  H.  G.  Wells.  By  the  way,  in 
the  same  class  is  a  book  by  the 
same  author,  entitled,  Italy, 
France  and  England  at  War,  m 
which  he  passes  strictures  upon 
representatives  of  the  great 
churches  of  those  lands,  because 
they  do  not  rise  to  the  occasion.  I 
believe  we  can  the  better  appre- 
ciate the  attitude  of  the  leaders  of 
our  people,  of  President  Smith  and 
his  associates  in  this  emergency,  by 
comparing  it  with  the  conduct  of 
some  representatives  of  other 
churches.  I  have  in  mind  now  a 
young  man,  highly  educated,  bril- 
liant in  his  natural  attainments, 
having  the  ripest  scholastic  training 
that  could  start  him  in  his  ministry, 
who  came  to  Utah  as  a  reformer, 
and  sought  to  win  away  our  young 
men.  He  sought  to  undermine  the 
Church  by  reaching  our  young  men 
and  alluring  them  into  the  smok- 
ing room  and  the  billiard  room  at- 
tached to  his  church.  But  all  his 
learning  and  training  were  not  suf- 
ficient to  keep  him  right  in  this 
emergency,  and  he  is  now  being 
justly  rebuked  by  his  countrymen 
including  the  members  of  his  own 
church.  So  I  say  I  rejoice  in  the 
fact  that  the  gospel  is  of  a  practical 
nature,  because  it  enables  the 
Church  to  grapple  with  all  the  prac- 
tical problems  as  they  arise,  and 
give  a  correct  solution  of  them. 

There  has  been  advice  during 
this  conference,  to  turn  to  the 
scriptures,  and  it  is  very  timely — 
timely  for  our  boys  who  are  going 
into  the  ranks  and  soon  into  the 
trenches.   Let  them  turn  to  Joshua. 


One  great  writer  has  said  that  of 
all  chapters  in  the  Bible,  the  one 
that  influenced  him  most  was  the 
first  chapter  of  Joshua,  on  account 
of  the  lesson  in  courage  that  it 
taught:  "Be  strong  and  of  good 
courage,  for  unto  this  people  shalt 
thou  divide  for  an  inheritance  the 
land,  which  I  swear  unto  their 
fathers  to  give  them."  This  is  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  the  children 
of  Israel,  and  particularly  to  Joshua 
their  leader,  just  before  they  are  to 
cross  Jordan  and  take  those  strong- 
ly fortified  cities  such  as  Jericho. 
It  continues  :  "Only  be  thou  strong 
and  very  courageous  that  thou 
mayst  observe  to  do  according  to 
all  the  law,  which  Moses  my  ser- 
vant commanded  thee :  turn  not 
from  it  to  the  right  hand  or  to  the 
left, that  thou  mayest  prosper  whith- 
ersoever thou  goest.  *  *  *  * 
Have  not  I  commanded  thee?  Be 
strong  and  of  a  good  courage ;  be 
not  afraid,  neither  be  thou  dis- 
mayed, for  the  Lord  thy  God  is 
with  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest. 
And  they  answered  Joshua,  saying, 
All  that  thou  commandest  us  we 
will  do,  and  whithersoever  thou 
sendest  us  we  will  go.  According 
as  we  hearkened  unto  Moses  in  all 
things,  so  will  we  hearken  .unto 
thee ;  only  the  Lord  thy  God  be 
with  thee,  as  he  was  with  Moses." 
And  then  for  the  closing  words  of 
this  chapter  we  have  the  echo  again, 
the  sublime  refrain :  "Only  be 
strong  and  of  a  good  courage."  To 
understand  the  significance  of  this 
admonition,  you  have  to  go  back 
into  the  history  of  Israel  and  call 
to  mind  the  twelve  men  who  were 
sent  down  to  spy  out  the  land  of 
promise.  Caleb  and  Joshua  were 
among  them.  When  they  returned 
there  were  only  these  two  out  of 
the  twelve  who    were  willing  to 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


comply  with  the  wishes  of  Moses 
and  Aaron  in  taking  possession  of 
the  land.  What  a  disappointment  it 
must  have  been  to  those  great  lead- 
ers to  realize  that  they  were  leading 
men  lacking  in  courage  who  would 
not  face  the  enemy,  and  who  re- 
ported that  they  had  met  "men  of 
great  stature,  which  come  of  the 
giants,"  the  sons  of  Anak.  They 
said,  "We  were  in  our  own  sight 
as  grasshoppers  and  so  were  we  in 
their  sight."  They  were  not  willing 
to  go  up.  But  Caleb  and  Joshua 
were  willing  to  go  up  at  once.  And 
Moses  and  Aaron  were  so  disap- 
pointed that  they  fell  upon  their 
faces,  and  they  pleaded  with  the 
Lord  not  to  utterly  destroy  the  peo- 
ple. But  the  fate  of  those  who 
were  not  courageous  enough  to  go 
in  and  take  possession  of  the  land 
when  they  had  the  privilege  of  en- 
tering, was  that  their  carcasses 
should  fall  in  the  desert,  that  only 
the  brave  or  the  younger  genera- 
tion, those  under  20  years  of  age, 
and  Caleb  and  Joshua  of  those 
above  that  age  should  enter.  Caleb, 
"because  he  had  another  spirit  with 
him,"  and  because  he  had  followed 
after  the  Lord,  after  the  lapse  of 
forty  years,  was  permitted  to  enter 
the  promised  land.  He  was  then 
four  score  and  five  years  of  age,  but 
still  he  was  willing  to  have  his  pos- 
sessions assigned  to  him  among  the 
fortified  cities.  He  still  had  good 
courage,  and  was  willing,  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord,  to  make  battle 
for  the  possession  that  should  be 
assigned  unto  him.  So  likewise 
manv  valuable  lessons  in  courage 
can  be  learned  by  the  young  from 
the  splendid  life  of  David,  and  of 
Gir'eon.  Gideon  was  willing  with 
300  followers  to  face  untold  thou- 
sands of  the  enemy  and  was  able  to 
put  them  to  rout. 


1  rejoice  in  the  teachings  of  this 
conference,  in  the  practical  advice 
(hat  has  been  given,  and  in  the  abil- 
ity of  the  gospel  to  help  solve  all  of 
the  practical  problems  of  life,  no 
matter  how  multitudinous  they  may 
be,  nor  how  suddenly  they  may  be 
thrown  upon  us,  if  we  have  but  a 
knowledge  of  the  word  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  profit  by 
his  word,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
!osus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(  President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

I  bring  you  greetings,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  from  California, 
from  your  .soldier  boys,  for  there 
are  a  great  many  of  them  now 
gathered  in  that  part  of  the  United 
States.  I  am  proud  to  say  that 
those  who  have  received  the  proper 
training  at  home  are  to  be  found 
with  us  whenever  opportunity  af- 
fords, renewing  their  covenants  at 
the  communion  table,  singing  the 
songs  of  Zion,  and  praying  that 
they  may  bear  with  honor  the 
names  of  the  fathers  who  have 
begotten  and  the  mothers  who  have 
given  them  birth.  I  know  the 
hearts  of  the  mothers  are  wrung 
with  fear  and  concern,  not  so  much 
that  their  sons  may  lose  their  lives, 
but  that  they  might  be  sullied,  and 
lose  their  virtue  by  contact  with 
the  world.  I  want  to  ,say  that  I 
have  no  fears  for  those  who  have 
been  trained  aright,  for  set  deep  in 
their  hearts  is  a  love  for  God  and 
godliness  that  will  secure  them  in 
the  truth.  I  have  found  in  the 
world  a  sobering  of  the  thought^ 
of  men ;  I  mean,  they  are  thinking 
less  of  the  pleasures  of  the  world, 
as  a  whole,  than  they  were  inclined 
to  do  two  or  three  years  ago ;  men 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


117 


who  would  have  blushed  at  one 
time  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of 
God  in  their  every  day  lives  now 
express  a  belief  in  him  and  his  di- 
vine providence;  they  pay  homage 
to  him,  where  once  they  would  rail, 
were  cynical  or  without  belief. 

The  wonderful  testimonies  that 
have  been  uttered  at  this  confer- 
ence, the  words  of  admonition 
that  we  have  received,  have  sunk 
deep  into  my  soul.  When  I  heard 
read,  by  Elder  Hart,  the  remarks 
of  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior, 
Franklin  K.  Lane,  of  California,  as 
I  heard  them  from  his  own  lips  the 
other  night,  I  thought  how  won- 
drous after  all  are  the  children  of 
our  God,  and  some  words  of  the 
Psalmist  came  to  my  mind,  and  I 
want  to  read  them  to  you : 

"O  Lord,  how  excellent  is  thy  name 
in  all  the  earth,  who  hast  set  thy 
glory  above  the  heavens. 

"Out  of  the  mouths  of  babes  and 
sucklings  hast  thou  ordained  strength 
because  of  thine  enemies,  that  thou 
mightest  still  the  enemy  and  the 
avenger. 

"When  I  consider  thy  heavens,  the 
work  of  thy  fingers,  the  moon,  the 
stars,  which  thou  hast  ordained; 

"What  is  man  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast 
crowned  him  with  glory  and  honor. 

"Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion 
over  the  works  of  thy  hands;  thou 
hast  put  all  things  under  his  feet; 

"All  sheep  and  oxen,  yea,  and  the 
beasts  of  the  field; 

"The  fowl  of  the  air  and  the  fish  of 
the  sea  and  whatsoever  passeth 
through  the  paths  of  the  seas. 

"O  Lord,  how  excellent  is  thy  name 
in  all  the  earth!" 

And  I  contrasted  these  words  of 
David  with  the  remarks  made  this 
morning  by  Elders  Ivins  and  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Jr.,  in  speaking  of  the 


vain  philosophy  of  men,  wherein 
they  would  have  us  not  born  of  God 
but  come  out  of  the  "lower  proto- 
plasm'' of  life,  drag  ourselves  up 
out  of  the  sea,  dry  ourselves  in  the 
sand,  clamber  up  into  a  tree,  and 
then,  after  some  ages  have  passed, 
drop  down,  stand  erect  and  become 
a  man.  I  thought  of  what  Mr. 
Lane  said  the  other  night  when  vis- 
ited by  the  ambassadors  from 
abroad,  and  they  laid  before  the 
Cabinet  and  the  President  of  our 
nation  some  of  the  great  things  that 
concerned  us  in  the  world's  war, 
how  they  admonished  these  gentle- 
men, our  leaders,  how  many  years 
it  would  take  to  perfect  an  engine 
for  an  aeroplane,  how  many  years 
it  would  be  necessary  to  provide  the 
needed  munitions  of  war,  raise  the 
men,  drill  them,  and  build  the  ships 
which  are  necessary.  Mr.  Lane  re- 
ported they  said  of  the  engine  for 
our  aeroplane,  "It  is  too  heavy  and 
that  it  would  take  at  least  a  year 
to  make  such  an  engine  as  would 
be  needed."  He  said,  "to  show  the 
unification  and  co-operation  of  this 
great  land  of  ours,"  we  called 
upon  the  workmen  of  the  east  and 
the  middle  west  and  the  western 
seaboard  for  their  assistance.  We 
locked  up  two  expert  engine  men  in 
a  room  at  Washington  and  asked 
them  to  give  us  the  benefit  of  the 
best  products  of  their  combined 
skill  in  an  aero-motor ;  and  in  thirty 
days  was  mobilized  from  all  parts 
of  this  Union  the  new,  well-built 
engine,  perfect  in  all  its  details  and 
surpassing  those  of  the  old  world  in 
every  point,  so  we  are  advised." 

How  great  is  the  ingenuity  of 
man,  when  God  gives  him  wisdom, 
even  in  works  for  the  destruction  of 
the  human  family.  How  I  would 
that  they  would  turn  their  won- 
drous powers  to  the  industry  and 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  peace  of  the  world !  And  they 
will,  as  sure  as  the  'day  follows  the 
night,  when  this  madness  that  has 
blinded  the  vision  of  the  rulers  of 
the  earth  has  passed  away,  and  they 
recognize  that  the  Redeemer  is  the 
only  king  of  the  earth,  and  they  ac- 
cept him  and  his  rule,  and  obey  his 
word. 

But,  to  the  thought  that  I  had  in 
my  mind.  To  think,  not  only  in 
connection  with  this  wonderful  inci- 
dent I  have  mentioned,  but  with  the 
other  and  greater  obligations  that 
rest  upon  the  Nation,  its  powers 
and  the  intelligence  of  its  citizens 
if  bent  upon  this  one  end,  that  we 
shall  lead  in  the  cause  of  right.  So 
we  have  demonstrated  what  man 
may  be  and  what  he  can  do  when  he 
has  an  incentive  for  doing.  Truly 
the  Lord  God  hath  "made  him  a 
little  lower  than  the  angels."  He 
hath  set  his  feet  upon  the  nether- 
most parts  of  the  earth.  There  is 
no  land  nor  clime  unknown  to  him 
today,  nor  creature,  nor  denizen  of 
the  seas.  He  has  harnessed  up  the 
silent  forces  of  the  universe  to  do 
his  bidding.  He  flies,  as  Isaiah  said 
that  he  should,  "as  a  dove  to  his 
cote." 

Think  you,  then,  that  all  these 
wonderful  powers  and  possibilities, 
God-given,  shall  find  an  end  with 
this  mean  and  rude  existence,  rude 
because  it  lacks  perfection?  Think 
you  that  there  shall  be  no  recom- 
pense for  the  mothers'  travail,  for 
her  sacrifices  and  for  her  tears  ;  that 
there  shall  be  no  reward  for  the 
father's  labors,  for  his  toil,  for  the 
burdens  that  he  has  borne  and  for 
the  battles  that  he  has  fought  ?  that 
the  fond  ideals  and  hopes  that  we 
entertain  for  our  boys  and  girls 
shall  come  to  naught,  and  all  shall 
be  vanity  of  vanity,  as  declared  by 
Solomon,  who  in  his  old  age  went 


after  false  gods  and  strange  women, 
and  perverted  the  way  of  truth? 
Think  you  that  our  soldier  boys, 
who  have  gone  to  the  front,  shall 
find  an  end  to  their  activities  should 
they  lay  down  their  lives  for  their 
country  ?  No,  it  is  not  so.  They 
are  not  of  the  low  and  the  mean  of 
the  earth.  They  reach  out  in  their 
aspirations  and  ideals  and  purposes 
into  infinitude,  and  infinite  love  and 
eternal  life  alone  can  bring  to  them 
a  full  fruition. 

In  all  creation,  aside  from  hu- 
mankind, everything  seems  to  come 
to  a  fulness  of  its  creation  here. 
The  whole  earth,  with  its  rocks,  its 
crystals,  its  metals,  and  its  flowers 
that  bud  and  blow,  its  trees  that  live 
and  bear,  and  all  the  brute  creation, 
the  fowls  of  the  air  and  the  fishes 
of  the  deep,  all  answer  the  end  of 
their  creation  here ;  they  meet  their 
complement,  they  have  their  com- 
panions, they  arc  provided  for  in 
their  habitat,  and  need  and  have  no 
care  nor  thought  of  the  morrow. 
But  man,  "created  in  the  image  of 
God,  though  he  come  from  the  cave 
man  and  through  the  stone  and  the 
iron  age,"  if  he  does  not  come  to 
his  fulness  here  and  may  not,  in  this 
narrow  vale,  make  a  complement  of 
all  his  attributes,  the  very  longing 
set  in  his  soul,  the  very  yearning 
for  eternal  life,  the  very  capabili- 
ties within  him  that  are  of  divine 
parentage  and  birth,  means  that 
there  shall  yet  be  some  other  sphere 
for  him  to  function  in,  that  he  may 
become  fairly  and  fully  what  God 
hath  ordained  he  should,  through 
faithfulness, — a  creator  himself. 

So,  men  of  the  world  who  know 
not  the  gospel  revealed  to  us,  and 
who  do  not  know  of  the  restored 
priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  in 
their  research  by  the  scalpel  and  the 
knife,  in  the  chemist's  smelting  pot, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  Li.  ROBINSON. 


119 


in  their  deep  searching  of  the  soul's 
emotions,  have  tried  to  .determine, 
and  have  satisfied  themselves  that 
life  goes  on  forever.  Bottomley, 
one  of  England's  greatest  editors 
and  writers,  briefly  speaking  of  the 
soldier,  along  with  Oliver  Lodge, 
who  is  perhaps  accepted  as  the 
greatest  psychologist  living,  and 
who  has  lost  a  boy  "somewhere  in 
France," — each  in  turn  have  said 
that  they  know  that  England's  boys 
who  went  to  the  front,  are  alive, 
and  are  active  even  in  that  other 
sphere ;  that  their  eyes  are  fixed 
upon  the  battle  fields  at  the  front, 
that  their  hearts  yearn  for  their 
companions,  and  for  the  cause  of 
universal  autonomy,  and  honor  and 
freedom  among  the  sons  of  men. 
This  from  those  men,  who  have  had 
no  testimony  such  as  the  lowliest  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  received. 
One  of  the  great  testimonies  that 
has  come  to  me  in  the  mission  field 
is  the  fact  that  God  reveals  the  truth 
to  the  lowliest  of  his  children,  to 
those  whom  we  may  look  upon  as 
not  even  as  intelligent  as  the  ma- 
jority of  their  fellows — even  as 
wayfaring  men  and  foolish,  yet 
they  know  the  truth  where  the 
savant,  the  scholar  or  the  scientist 
falls  short  because  of  the  latter's 
egotism  and  the  dogmatism  of  men. 
What  great  cause  there  is  in  this 
for  us  to  rejoice.  Just  as  I  read 
unto  you  here,  "Out  of  the  mouths 
of  babes  and  suklings  Go  !  hath  or- 
dained strength.''  And  God  hath 
.not  chosen  many  of  the  great  and 
mighty  ones  of  the  earth.  He  hath 
revealed  his  secrets  unto  babes  and 
sucklings.  Praise  God,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  you  know  the 
truth ;  that  you  are  in  touch  with 
the  powers  of  heaven;  that  you 
know  that  God  hears  and  answers 
prayers ;  that  you  know  that  Jesus 


Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind, our  Mediator  with  the  Father  ; 
that  God  so  loved  us  that  he  gave 
his  Son,  a  precious  gift,  that  by  him 
and  through  him  we  might  learn  to 
live  and,  if  needs  be,  die;  that  we 
are  joint  heirs  with  Christ  to  the 
glories  of  our  Father's  kingdom,  if 
we  but  keep  the  faith,  il  we  but 
love  God  with  all  of  our  heart  and 
soul  and  mind.  Thank  God  that 
we  are  among  those  babes  and 
sucklings,  or  the  "wayfaring''  to 
whom  this  wonderful  secret,  these 
precious  words  of  truth,  have  come, 
yet  men  in  the  world,  in  their  ego- 
tism and  in  their  vain  and  vague 
philosophies,  have  shut  themselves 
away  from  God  just  as  the  poet 
Holland  has  said  in  a  beautiful 
poem : 

"So,  with  reason's  hand 
1  closed  the  adamantine  gates, 
Which  faith  alone  unlocks,  and  shut 
Myself  away  from  God,  the  warder 
Of  a  horde  of  passions  that  in 
Darkness  groaned  and  fought, 
Or  upon  each  other  gnawed 
For  the  nourishment  1  desired." 

That  is  the  state  of  the  unbe- 
liever, his  feelings  and  emotions 
God-given  nevertheless.  Not  any 
of  the  lower  creatures  of  the  earth 
reach  out  for  immortality.  Man 
alone  reaches  out  for  eternity  and 
demands  a  hereafter  and  an  uplift 
to  all  of  -the  children  of  men.  But 
man  in  the  world  has  stultified  him- 
self and  shut  himself  away  from 
God,  and  how  happy  even  he  is 
when  again,  through  faith,  suffer- 
ing, and  chastisement  he  finds  the 
Lord,  when  again  he  has  found 
himself  and  become  what  is  called 
in  the  earth,  a  "Christian." 

May  the  blessings  of  heaven  be 
with  you,  you  mothers  of  men  who 
have  given  of  your  heart's  best  love 
to  maintain  the  honor  of  our  coun- 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


try  and  its  sacred  liberty  and  name, 
that  neither  kingcraft  nor  any  king 
shall  find  place  here,  and  that  right- 
eousness and  truth  shall  be  defend- 
ed and  protected  in  every  land  and 
clime,  until  all  nations  shall  recog- 
nize their  King  and  their  God  in 
Christ.  Bless  you,  you  fathers, 
who  maintain  our  boys  in  the  mis- 
sion field,  and  enable  them  to  lift 
up  the  voice  as  with  a  trump  to 
those  who  sit  in  darkness  and  know 
not  the  truth.  Bless  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters.  May  we  come  to  a 
realization  of  what  God  has  de- 
signed us  eventually  to  be,  and 
shine  as  the  stars  in  the  firmament 
of  heaven,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem  enti- 
tled, "Daughters  of  Zion." 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION. 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

I  greet  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, this  afternoon  with  a  realiza- 
tion in  my  heart  of  the  great  re- 
sponsibility that  rests  upon  a 
speaker  on  an  occasion  of  this  kind. 
I  ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers,  that  I  may  be  able  to  say 
such  things  as  will  be  for  our  good. 

I  have  been  reminded  during  this 
coference  of  the  custom  of  the  Lord 
since  the  beginning,  according  to 
scripture,  of  gathering  together  his 
saints  from  time  to  time  that  they 
might  be  instructed  as  to  their  duty, 
and  have  their  faith  increased. 
Yesterday,  when  I  listened  to  Pres- 
ident Smith  tell  of  his  laboring  so 
many  years  in  this  Church,  and 
heard  him  give  such  excellent  ad- 
vice, as  a  result  of  his  experience, 
to  his  brethren  and  sisters,  to  those 
who  believe  in  the  same  God  that  he 


does,  I  was  reminded  of  that  pas- 
sage of  scripture  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  wherein  Nephi  makes  this 
statement : 

''And  blessed  are  they  who  shall 
seek  to  bring  forth  my  Zion  at 
that  day,  for  they  shall  have  the 
gift  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 
and  if  they  endure  unto  the  end. 
they  shall  be  lifted  up  at  the  last  day, 
and  shall  be  saved  in  the  everlasting 
kingdom  of  the  Lamb;  and  whoso 
shall  publish  peace,  yea,  tidings  of 
great  joy,  how  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains  shall  they  be"  (Nephi 
13:32). 

No  greater  character,  I  think, 
lives  in  mortality  than  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  wonder  how 
many  among  us  take  into  consider- 
ation the  number  of  times  Presi- 
dent Smith  and  his  counselors  are 
called  together  in  a  day  in  con- 
sultation in  their  office,  answering 
questions  and  attending  to  this 
great  work  of  the  Lord  upon  the 
earth.  I  wonder  if  we  are  as  mind- 
ful of  them  as  we  should  be.  I 
have  learned  to  love  President 
Smith,  knowing  him  by  experience 
to  be  a  man  of  God,  and  a  man 
whom  the  Lord  has  chosen  for  this 
work  in  these  last  days.  I  believe 
that  he  was  chosen  in  the  council 
that  was  held  before  the  world  was. 
You  will  read  in  the  Book  of  Abra- 
ham as  f  ollows : 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  and 
among  all  these  there  were  many  of 
the  noble  and  great  ones; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will 
make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among 
those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw 
that  they  were  good;  and  he  said 
unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of 
them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou 
wast  born    (Abraham  3:22,  23). 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION. 


121 


He  said  unto  Jeremiah;  "Before 
I  formed  thee  in  the  belly  I  knew 
thee ;  and  before  thou  earnest  forth 
out  of  the  womb  I  sanctified  thee, 
and  I  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto 
the  nations  (Jei\  1-5).  I  believe 
that  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet 
stood  among  those  spirits  that  the 
Lord  showed  unto  Abraham.  I  be- 
lieve that  the  Lord  knew  him  be- 
fore he  ever  came  here,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  when  Joseph  F.  Smith 
was  born  in  Missouri  that  God 
knew  him,  and  I  believe  that  Luci- 
fer, the  "son  of  the  morning," 
knew  him,  and  that  he,  the  adver- 
sary of  all  good,  sought  to  destroy 
him.  Perhaps  it  is  not  generally 
known,  but  Lucifer  knows  it,  that, 
at  Far  West,  Missouri,  in  the  fall 
of  1838,  when  he  was  but  a  few- 
weeks  old  the  mob  tried  to  destroy 
him.  The  leader  of  that  mob,  a 
minister  of  the  gospel,  in  ransack- 
ing the  home  of  the  mother  of 
President  Smith  and  trying  to  find 
valuables  for  which  he  sought, 
found  the  child  lying  upon  a  bed,  a 
helpless  infant,  and  threw  the  bed- 
ding over  him,  and  the  infant,  now 
our  President,  was  nearly  smoth- 
ered when  he  was  discovered.  I 
believe  that  he  was  recognized  by 
Lucifer,  that  he  was  to  become  a 
great  leader  in  Israel. 

T  know  beyond  a  question  of  a 
doubt  that  God  lives,  and  that  his 
priesthood  is  here  upon  the  earth 
for  the  good  and  for  the  salvation 
of  men.  If  it  were  not  for  the 
authority  of  Jesus  the  inhabitants 
of  this  earth  would  destroy  each 
other.  The  wicked  would  slay  the 
wicked  as  they  are  doing  until  total 
destruction  would  occur.  But  from 
among  the  children  of  men  scat- 
tered in  all  parts  of  the  world  shall 
come  the  honest  in  heart,  and  they 
shall  come  unto  a  knowledge  of  the 


truth.  They  shall  come  from  the 
four  corners  of  the  world.  Do  you 
think  that  this  great  conflict  that  is 
now  being  waged  throughout  the 
world  is  not  for  a  purpose?  It  is  to 
destroy  the  wicked  so  that  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Son  of  Man  can  be  pro- 
claimed with  freedom,  that  liberty 
of  conscience  may  be  enjoyed  by 
the  honest  in  heart  in  all  the  world. 

God  moved  Columbus  to  come  to 
this  land,  and  he  labored  with  those 
who  ruled  over  him  to  give  him  an 
apportunity  to  come  here  and  dis- 
cover this  continent,  and  this  was 
done  that  a  great  land  of  liberty 
might  be  populated  by  a  people  who 
love  liberty  and  the  truth.  The 
Lord  is  using  men  in  various  parts 
of  the  earth  at  the  present  time  to 
accomplish  his  purposes.  They 
may  not  be  preaching  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  but  they  are  assisting  in  the 
establishment  of  a  democracy  that 
will  give  men  and  women  liberty 
to  act  and  move  as  the  power  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  shall  move  upon 
them.  I  have  in  mind  one  individ- 
ual who  1  am  sure  is  performing 
a  great  work,  preparing  the  way 
for  a  .democracy  that  will  permit 
the  spreading  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  where  it  has  not  been  heard 
because  of  tyranny  and  oppression. 
He  has  been  called  to  Russia  as  an 
ambassador  of  the  United  States 
of  America.  He  is  not  a  member 
of  the  Church,  by  any  means,  but 
he  is  a  character  who  has  become 
well  known  in  this  land,  a  states- 
man, a  diplomat,  and  a  gentleman, 
a  man  who  is  able  to  understand 
the  conditions  and  the  needs  of  the 
people  of  that  land,  and  who  carries 
with  him  the  spirit  of  liberty  and  of 
the  democracy  which  we  enjoy.  1 
speak  of  the  Hon.  David  R.'  Fran- 
cis, of  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  who  was  at 
one  time  president  of  the  world's 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fair  at  St.  Louis,  another  time  Gov- 
ernor of  the  great  state  of  Mis- 
souri, and  another  time  a  member 
of  Grover  Cleveland's  cabinet,  a 
gentleman  who  has  had  ample  ex- 
perience that  qualifies  him  for  the 
work.  I  believe  men  like  him  are 
doing  God's  work  in  the  world, 
and  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
may  be  carried  into  may  lands  of 
darkness,  after  the  way  has  been 
opened  by  the  establishment  of 
good  governments. 

We  think  that  we  are  doing  a 
great  and  a  mighty  work,  and  we 
are,  in  sending  the  gospel  to  the 
world  and  in  enduring  hardships 
in  many  ways.  But  there  will  come 
a  time  when  every  man  and  woman 
will  be  tried,  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  must  be  preached  unto 
the  children  of  men  as  long  as  flesh 
shall  remain  upon  the  earth,  and 
the  men  who  practice  what  they 
preach  shall  be  the  instruments  in 
God's  hands  to  gather  the  honest  in 
heart  that  they  may  enjoy  such 
sweets  as  we  are  enjoying  today. 
For  there  are  men  and  women  in 
the  world  ready  to  receive  the  gos- 
pel; but  because  of  wickedness,  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  has  been 
curtailed.  Hence  the  necessity  of 
establishing  a  government  which 
will  allow  its  people  to  worship  God 
according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
own  conscience.  In  many  portions 
of  the  world  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ  has  never  been  tol- 
erated, and  those  countries  must  be 
opened  up,  for  the  Savior  said  : 

"This  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall 
be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a 
witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then 
shall  the  end  come"    (Matt.  24:14). 

Christ  shall  come  to  the  earth  as 
decreed,    in    a    moment,  without 


warning.  The  go,spel  must  be  car- 
ried forward  unto  the  uttermost 
ends  of  this  earth,  and  the  people 
gathered  together  in  these  moun- 
tains are  the  ones  who  shall  be 
called  upon  to  bear  the  burden  and 
the  responsibility  of  gathering  out 
from  bondage  the  honest  in  heart 
in  all  the  world. 

This  western  land  has  been 
blessed.  In  all  my  travels  through- 
out the  country  this  year  I  have 
never  .seen  a  land  that  has  been 
blessed  like  the  country  in  this  in- 
termountain  region.  We  have  been 
favored  of  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord 
will  undoubtedly  call  upon  us,  for 
he  has  given  us  wealth  and  means 
to  provide  for  the  future,  that  we 
might  be  able  to  carry  on  his  work 
and  his  purposes,  for  they  cannot 
fail.  The  heavens  and  the  earth 
may  pass  away  but  the  words  of 
God  shall  not  pass  away,  and  men 
and  women  will  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  knowing  the  truth  if  they 
desire  it,  for  the  gospel  is  in  the 
earth  never  more  to  be  taken  away 
or  given  unto  another  people.  His 
priesthood  which  has  been  estab- 
lished will  he  the  power  by  which 
people  may  receive  the  truth,  and 
those  who  have  been  prospered  and 
cared  for  as  sons  and  daughters 
growing  up  as  "calves  in  the  stall" 
shall  be  called  to  use  their  strength. 
And  the  day  will  come,  and  not  far 
distant,  when  thousands  of  men  and 
women  shall  be  baptized  into  this 
Church.  The  purposes  of  the  Al- 
mighty shall  be  fulfilled.  The  gos- 
pel of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world 
will  go  into  all  the  world.  The 
Jew  shall  be  placed  back  in  the  land 
from  which  he  came,  and  this  coun- 
try in  which  we  live  and  of  which 
we  are  a  part  will  play  an  important 
part  in  the  establishment  of  God's 
purposes  with  regard  to  the  Jews, 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION. 


123 


and  in  the  fulfilment  of  his  prom- 
ises to  them.  The  men  and  women 
who  live  up  to  the  requirements 
made  of  God  shall  recognize  his 
power  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is 
given  unto  every  man  and  unto 
every  woman  and  unto  every  child 
when  they  are  baptized.  They  are 
entitled  to  that  Spirit  and  power 
and  gift. 

May  the  peace  of  heaven  rest 
upon  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

The  time  allotted  for  this  meet- 
ing has  almost  expired.  I  think 
there  must  be  a  feeling  in  every 
heart  that  we  have  had  a  profitable 
time  not  only  in  this  meeting,  but 
that  we  have  also  had  a  profitable 
and  a  happy  time,  throughout  all 
the  meetings  of  this  general  confer- 
ence. I  hope  there  is  a  disposition 
on  the  part  of  every  person  who  is 
present,  to  believe  in  the  testimo- 
nies that  have  been  delivered  con- 
cerning the  divinity  of  the  work  to 
which  we  have  set  our  hands,  and 
that  there  is  an  assurance  that  di- 
vine authority  has  come  to  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church.  We  all  should 
know,  that  he  is  the  representative 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  direct- 
ing and  managing,  in  connection 
with  his  brethren,  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  When  brethren 
speak  highly  of  President  Smith,  or 
of  the  presiding  authorities  in  the 
Church,  it  is  not  because  there  is 
any  disposition  in  the  minds  of 
those  members  of  the  Church  to 
worship  men.  We  do  not  worship 
men;  we  rejoice  in  the  noble  char- 
acter of  men.  But  we  recognize 
and  honor  above  all  else  the  author- 


ity that  has  been  conferred  upon 
them  by  our  father  in  heaven,  1 
trust  that  we  all  partake  of  the 
spirit  of  gooaly  reverence  that,  1 
understand,  was  made  manifest  in 
the  days  of  Joseph  Smith  by  Dr. 
tiernhisel.  The  good  man,  after 
coming  to  Utah,  was  at  one  time 
representative  in  Congress  from 
the  Territory  of  Utah,  i  have  been 
informed  that  although  Dr.  Bern- 
hisel  was  a  college  man,  a  man  of 
superior  education,  that  he  invar- 
iably rose  to  his  feet  when  the 
Prophet  came  into  any  room  where 
he  was  sitting,  and  he  would  remain 
standing  upon  his  feet  until  the 
prophet  himself  would  sit  down. 
The  prophet  was  embarrassed  be- 
cause of  the  very  great  deference 
that  was  shown  him  by  Dr.  Bern- 
hisel,  and  remonstrated  with  him. 
The  answer  made  by  Dr.  Bern- 
hisel  when  the  prophet  mentioned 
the  matter  to  him  was,  "I  delight 
to  honor  the  man  whom  God  hath 
honored."  I  think  we  all  should 
have  this  same  disposition  to 
honor  heavenly  authority.  We  are 
not  making  any  mistake  when  we 
honor  the  man  that  God  has  hon- 
ored, and  in  whom  he  has  reposed 
his  authority,  and  to  whom  he  has 
given  the  power  of  the  holy  Apostle- 
ship,  and  whom  he  upholds  and  sus- 
tains as  his  mouthpiece  and  seer. 

I  had  the  very  great  privilege  and 
honor  to  accompany  President 
Smith  and  his  party,  on  the  journey 
that  was  recently  made  through  the 
settlements  to  the  south,  as  far  as 
St.  George.  It  was  wonderful  to 
see  how  easily  President  Smith 
could  be  approached.  Why,  it  only 
needed  the  lifting  of  the  hands  of 
the  little  children  in  the  roadway 
as  the  president  traveled  along  in 
his  auto,  to  bring  forth  at  once  in- 
structions for  the  auto  to  stop,  that 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he  might  greet  and  shake  hands 
with  the  little  children.  The  chil- 
dren swarmed  around  him  by 
hundreds  and  thousands.  There 
was  no  fear  on  the  part  of  the  chil- 
dren that  they  could  not  approach 
the  President  of  the  Church.  All 
felt  that  they  were  in  the  presence 
of  one  who  had  great  love  for  them, 
and  they  would  climb  into  his  auto 
without  hesitation  that  they  might 
present  him  bouquets  of  flowers, 
and  manifest  in  every  way  the  love 
and  the  confidence  they  had  in  the 
President  of  the  Church.  Not  only 
did  little  children  give  evidence 
of  this  spirit  of  confidence,  and  this 
feeling  that  they  were  welcome  by 
the  President,  but  the  aged  had  the 
same  feeling,  men  and  women 
came  to  him,  whose  heads  were  sil- 
vered or  gray,  and  they  come  in 
the  same  confidence — no  feeling 
that  they  must  stand  back,  that  he 
was  an  austere  and  severe  man,  but 
just  the  opposite,  all  coming  near 
with  the  greatest  freedom,  and  all 
manifesting  respect  for  and  rejoic- 
ing in  the  blessing,  and  kindly 
greeting  of  this  great  man  of  God. 

I  felt  in  my  soul  as  I  listened 
to  the  wonderful  counsels  that  were 
imparted  by  the  President,  and  wit- 
nessed the  manifestations  of  the 
power  of  God  given  through  him, 
that  he  was  indeed  all  that  has  been 
said  of  him  in  this  conference. 
You  have  listened  as  men  have 
testified  concerning  his  worth,  his 
integrity,  his  honesty,  his  love  for 
the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
his  willingness  to  labor  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  souls  of  men. 

I  will  long  remember  the  wonder- 
ful experiences  of  the  trip,  and  how 
by  night  and  by  day  the  word  of 
the  Lord  came  from  the  mouth  of 
our  dear  President  and  Prophet  in 


rich  abundance.  The  people  of  the 
Church  were  comforted  when- 
ever they  had  opportunity  to  greet 
him,  and  I  believe  there  was  a  feel- 
ing in  the  hearts  of  men  and 
women,  the  aged  and  the  middle 
aged,  the  youth  and  the  little  chil- 
dren, that  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  in- 
deed a  pi'ophet  of  the  living 
God. 

I  thank  God  that  in  my  soul  there 
has  come  a  strong  love  for  the  work 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  God  has 
made  me  acquainted  with  the 
truth  of  this  wonderful  gospel.  He 
has  made  me  sure  that  power  has 
been  revealed  in  these  latter  times 
for  the  salvation  of  the  human 
family.  It  is  the  greatest  thing  in 
the  world.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation ;  the  power  that  will 
bring  men  into  communion  with 
their  Father  in  heaven,  and  will 
lead  them  back  from  the  things  of 
this  world  into  the  presence  of  God. 
The  truth  given  of  God  for  the 
salvation  of  men  has  always  been 
the  greatest  thing  in  the  world 
whenever  it  has  been  among 
the  children  of  men.  We  make 
no  extravagant  statement  when 
we  bear  testimony,  and  make 
the  declaration  that  this  thing  that 
has  come  by  the  revelations  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  is  the  greatest 
and  most  blessed  thing  that  can  be 
found  by  the  human  family 
today. 

God  help  us  to  believe  the  truth, 
to  uphold  proper  authority, -to  stand 
for  the  right  in  all  things,  that  we 
may  be  men  and  women  after  the 
heart  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I 
pray  his  blessings  and  his  peace 
upon  you,  and  testify  to  you  of  the 
truth  of  this  work  to  which  we 
have  set  our  hands,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 


L25 


The  authorities  were  sustained 
unanimously  as  in  the  Tabernacle 
meeting. 

The  choir  sang,  "Now  let  us  re- 
joice in  the  day  of  salvation/' 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered 
by  President  William  D.  Kuhre,  of 
the  Jordan  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  MEETING 
OUT-DOORS. 

A  second  outdoor  meeting  was 
held  in  front  of  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation Building,  Elder  Benja- 
min Goddard,  presiding.  The  mu- 
sic was  furnished  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints'  University  choir. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  : 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 

Prayer  by  David  J.  Smith. 
.    The  choir  sang,  "O  death,  where 
is  thy  sting." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(President    of    the    Southern  States 
Mission.) 

The  uppermost  thought  in  my 
heart,  as  I  face  this  vast  congrega- 
tion, is  one  of  thankfulness  that  I 
am  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  wonderful,  it  is  sublime ;  and  the 
day  will  yet  come  that  it  will  be 
acknowledge  that  the  splendid  faith 
of  this  people  has  helped  to  keep 
this  old  world  from  bursting 
asunder.  It  is  nothing  but  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ  and  in  his  gospel  that 
will  save  this  world  from  moral 
and  spiritual  decay.  There  are 
many  causes  for  the  greatness  of 
this  latter-day  people,  but  one  of 
the  main  causes  or  reasons  is  that 


we  are  led  by  inspired  men.  The 
Bible  tells  us  that  "there  were 
giants  in  those  days."  There  are 
giants  in  this  day,  and  this  Church 
is  led  by  men  richly  and  abundant- 
ly endowed  with  divine  inspiration ; 
and  as  all  the  holy  prophets  since 
the  world  began  have  spoken  as 
they  were  moved  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  so  do  the  leaders  of  this 
Church  speak  by  that  same  living, 
divine,  all-sustaining  power.  O 
may  the  Lord  grant  that  his  fear 
may  be  in  our  hearts  all  the  live- 
long day. 

We  are  told  by  the  Psalmist  that 
"the  heavens  declare  the  glory  of 
God."  That  is  true ;  but  his  will  is 
not  declared  by  his  visible  crea- 
tions in  the  heavens.  The  will  of 
God  is  expressed  and  manifested 
through  his  chosen  servants  whom 
he  hath  appointed  to  lead  latter- 
day  Israel.  We  are  told  that  God 
cannot  be  known  by  the  reason  or 
intelligence  of  mankind ;  and  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  all  we  know  of 
God  comes  through  the  channels 
of  the  holy  priesthood  and  of  the 
gospel,  which  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  The  gospel  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  be- 
cause, by  its  ordinances,  by  obedi- 
ence to  the  divine  law,  we  may 
know  God,  and  thus  gain  eternal 
life.  "This  is  life  eternal,"  said  the 
Savior,  "that  they  might  know  thee 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ 
whom  thou  hast  sent ;"  and  the 
knowledge  of  God  is  obtained  by 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel. 

When  Nicodemus  came  to  the 
Lord  Jesus  and  desired  to  know  the 
means  of  salvation,  Jesus  said, 
"Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


into  the  kingdom  of  God."  Daniel 
said  that  the  God  of  heaven  would 
set  up  a  kingdom  that  should  never 
more  be  thrown  down  nor  be  given 
to  another  people.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  kingdom  cannot  be 
seen,  enjoyed,  nor  its  truths  ab- 
sorbed by  the  souls  of  men  unless 
they  are  born  of  water  and  receive 
the  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  read  in  the  writing's  of  St.  Paul 
that  charity  or  love  envieth  not. 
We  know  by  modern  as  well  as  by 
ancient  scripture  that  in  the  spirit 
world  we  had  progressed  as  far  as 
we  could  in  our  spiritual  existence ; 
and  that  God,  who  is  love,  who  can- 
not envy,  because  he  loveth  his  chil- 
dren, ordained  that  this  mortal  life 
was  the  pathway  to  lead  on  unto 
exaltation,  that  we  might  become 
by  adoption,  by  obedience  to  his 
gospel,  his  sons.  _  So,  instead  of  this 
mortal  life  being  a  handicap,  as 
many  of  us  sometimes  feel  that  it 
is,  it  is  a  privilege.  A  mission  is  a 
privilege.  You  parents,  I  know, 
esteem  it  a  joy  and  an  opportunity 
to  sacrifice  your  sons  and  daughters 
who  go  forth  to  proclaim  the  word 
of  the  living  God.  And  to  the  mis- 
sionaries it  is  not  a  sacrifice,  it  is 
an  advancement,  it  is  a  promotion, 
it  is  a  privilege  which  will  bring 
them  and  their  loved  ones  the  hon- 
or and  the  pleasure  that  cometh 
from  God  only. 

Now,  if  God  had  envied  his  chil- 
dren, would  he  have  ordained  this 
mortal  existence?  No.  I  tell  you 
that  men  and  women  are  led  up  to 
exaltation  by  obedience  to  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  In 
this  day  we  hear  a  great  deal  of 
talk  about  our  rights.  Why  not 
talk  more  about  our  obligations? 
Why  not  ponder  more  upon  our  ob- 
ligations to  God,  to  country,  to 


neighbor,  and  to  loved  ones?  If 
the  love  of  God  be  in  our  hearts, 
there  is  no  envy;  in  every  place  a 
man  will  meet  a  brother  and  a 
friend,  and  we  will  desire  the  ad- 
vancement and  the  progress  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters  with  all  our 
hearts.  And  so  God,  in  his  mercy,, 
ordained  that  this  mortal  existence 
should  serve  as  a  probationary 
sphere.  Why?  God  said  when  he 
looked  upon  us  in  the  spirit  world, 
"'We  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell.  And  we  will 
prove  them  herewith  to  see  if  they 
will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the 
Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them.''  So  this  is  the  purpose  of 
life,  to  obey  the  commandments  of 
God  ;  and,  as  the  Apostle  John  says, 
"they  are  not  grievous."  Wicked- 
ness is  grievous,  wickedness  breaks 
the  heart,  wickedness  breaks  the 
spirit,  sin  is  the  sting  of  death,  but- 
the  righteousness  of  God  gives  joy 
and  faith  and  hope  to  the  human 
heart,  and  helps  us  to  fight  the  bat- 
tel of  life  with  a  good  conscience 
and  with  a  stout  heart. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
there  is  a  precious  promise  given 
by  the  Lord  to  the  men  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  his  Church  in  their 
day  and  appointed  time.  Unto 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the 
Lord  said,  "And  thy  people 
shall  never  be  turned  against  thee 
by  the  testimony  of  traitors." 
O  what  a  glorious  promise,  that 
if  the  Latter-day  Saints  live  their 
religion,  they  will  be  found  sustain- 
ing their  leader  and  honoring  and 
revering  the  authority  that  God 
hath  placed  upon  the  earth  for  their 
salvation  and  to  aid  them  in  obtain- 
ing eternal  exaltation!  Calumny, 
slander,  misriepresentation,  black 
falsehoods,  have  rolled  and  surged 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 


127 


around  the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
traitors  have  borne  false  witness 
against  them,  they  have  sought  to 
betray  them;  but  true  to  his  prom- 
ise, God  has  given  his  people  ears 
to  hear,  and  they  hear  and  they 
know  the  voice  of  the  shepherd  and 
not  the  voice  of  a  stranger ;  so  tint, 
with  magnificent  unanimity,  the 
people  of  God  stand  behind  their 
leaders,  for  they  have  faith  in  the 
Lord's  promise  that  they  shall  never 
be  turned  against  the  priesthood  by 
the  testimony  of  traitors.  We  love 
the  President  of  the  Church,  and 
we  love  the  adornment,  the  author- 
ity, that  God  has  placed  upon  him  as 
the  president  of  this  Church.  I 
am  thankful  because  he  holds  the 
keys  by  which  we  can  go  into  the 
temples  of  the  God  of  heaven  and 
there  receive  blessings  that  we 
could  not  receive  if  traitors  had  the 
power  to  turn  us  against  our  lead- 
ers. And  so  I  rejoice  in  God's 
promise  and  in  its  glorious  fulfil- 
ment, that  though  storms  may  come, 
yet  as  a  people  we  shall  weather  the 
gale,  he  true  to  our  covenants,  and 
always  be  found  supporting  the 
men  whom  God  hath  placed  at  the 
head  of  this  Church  for  the  bless- 
ing of  this  people. 

God  help  us,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  live  our  religion.  May  he 
fill  our  hearts  with  his  love,  that 
there  .shall  be  no  envy  within  us, 
but  that  we  shall  desire  the  advance- 
ment, the  welfare  of  our  neighbors. 
If  this  love  were  in  the  hearts  of 
men  today  universally,  there  would 
be  no  war,  but  the  love  of  God 
would  lead  his  children  along  the 
path  of  advancement  to  that  goal 
to  which  our  eyes  are  turned,  and 
to  which  we  and  all  our  children 
shall  be  blessed  in  attaining-,  even 
the  goal  of  eternal  life,  which  as 


our  Father  has  said,  is  the  greatest 
gift  that  he  can  give  to  his  chil- 
dren. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I 
know  that  the  God  of  heaven  is 
with  this  people;  I  know  that  this 
work  will  triumph.  I  know  that  in 
the  South,  North,  East  and  West 
the  word!  of  God  is  expanding ; 
this  war  is  humbling  men  and 
women  and  bringing  them  to  re- 
pentance, and  the  wave  of  conver- 
sion is  mounting  higher  and  higher, 
for  the  fear  of  God  is  filling  the 
hearts  of  men  and  women  and  his 
goodness  is  leading  them  to  repent- 
ance. And  so  I  thankfully  bear 
testimony  that  this  work  is  of  God, 
that  our  leader  is  his  prophet,  and 
that  you  are  the  people  of  God,  Is- 
rael, led  and  blessed  by  great  lead- 
ers, in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  G.  E.  ELLSWORTH. 

(President    of    the    Northern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
President  Smith,  in  his  opening  ad- 
dress, said  that  in  his  recent  visit 
through  the  South,  he  had  come  to 
understand  one  thing,  and  that  was 
that  he  would  like  to  become  better 
acquainted  with  the  people,  and 
have  the  people  better  acquainted 
with  him,  I  thought  of  the  time 
when  Jesus  tried  to  make  the  disci- 
ples understand  who  he  was  and 
what  his  mission  was  in  the  earth. 
In  all  his  instructions,  he  almost 
failed  to  make  them  understand 
him,  and  he  said,  "Ye  believe  in 
God,  believe  also  in  me,"  and  went 
so  far  as  to  intimate  that  if  they 
could  not  believe  in  him,  they 
should  believe  in  the  works  that  he 
had  done.  The  Lord  in  all  ages  has 
revealed  himself  to  his  prophets  and 
leaders,  that  they  in  turn  may  teach 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  people  concerning  the  true  char- 
acter of  our  Father,  for  to  know 
God  and  Jesus  Christ  is  life  eternal. 

Why,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
were  placed  here  upon  the  earth, 
and  it  is  the  mission  of  our  Father, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  of 
his  children  here ;  and  he  revealed 
himself  to  his  prophets  down  to  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ,  and  he  came  as  a  reve- 
lation of  his  Father  to  the  children 
of  men,  and  dwelt  among  them  as 
other  men,  and  was  known  of  them, 
and  tried  his  best  to  teach  them  con- 
cerning his  Father  and  the  char- 
acter of  our  Father  in  heaven. 
President  Smith  seemed  to  have  the 
same  feeling  in  his  heart,  to  be 
known  and  understood  by  the  peo- 
ple. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  personal  ex- 
perience that  came  to  me.  In  going 
to  my  home  town  after  being  away 
most  of  the  time  for  ten  or  fifteen 
years,  I  met  a  little  boy,  who  evi- 
dently knew  me  and  had  kept  in 
touch  with  me.  I  said  to  him, 
"What  is  your  name,  my  boy?"  He 
said,  "Why,  you  know  my  name." 
I  said,  "No,  I  don't."  He  said,  "Ah. 
you  do,  too,  know  my  name."  I 
replied  that  I  did  not  and  asked, 
"Who  is  your  father?"  And  he 
said  "Surely  you  know  my  father," 
and  in  answer  to  one  or  two  protes- 
tations, he  said  to  me,  "Why,  I 
know  my  father  just  as  easy." 

The  ease  with  which  the  boy 
knew  his  father  appealed  to  me 
while  listening  to  President  Smith. 
You  would  think  he  knew  and  un- 
derstood his  Father  and  the  pur- 
poses of  God  just  as  easily  as  the 
little  boy  knew  his  father.  Why? 
Because  he  has  kept  in  touch  with 
our  Father,  and  the  great  work  that 
our  Father  has  established  in  the 
earth.    He  seems  akin  to  the  Mas- 


ter who,  when  he  was  only  a  child, 
said  in  answer  to  his  mother,  "Wist 
ye  not  that  I  should  be  about  my 
Father's  business?"  For  President 
Smith  has  been  about  his  Father's 
business  from  boyhood. 

In  all  the  walks  and  conversations 
of  Jesus  the  Master  it  was  as  if 
he  was  well  acquainted  with  his 
Father,  that  he  knew  his  will,  and 
understood  his  own  mission  in  the 
earth.  He  tried  from  the  beginning 
to  impress  upon  the  disciples  that 
God  was  truly  his  Father  and  that 
he  was  in  very  deed  his  Son  as  well 
as  they  his  brethren.  In  teaching 
them  to  pray,  as  missionaries  he  did 
it  in  this  sweet  and  familiar  way : 

"Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven, 
hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy  king- 
dom come.  Thy  will  be  done  in 
earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven." 

And  again,  to  Philip's  question  as 
to  the  character  of  the  Father,  he 
made  the  following  answer,  as  re- 
corded in  the  14th  chapter  of  John : 
"Philip  saith  unto  him,  Lord,  show 
us  the  Father,  and  it  sufficeth  us. 
Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Have  I  been 
so  long  time  with  you,  and  yet  hast 
thou  not  known  me,  Philip  ?  he  that 
hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father ; 
and  how  sayest  thou  then,  Show  us 
the  Father?"  It  seemed  to  grieve 
the  Savior  that  with  all  his  teach- 
ings, one  of  his  disciples  would  ask 
to  see  the  Father,  for  he  had  taught 
them  that  he  was  in  the  express 
image  of  his  Father's  person,  that 
he  had  come  to  do  his  Father's  will 
and  the  things  he  had  seen  his 
Father  do.  When  he  had  finished 
teaching  his  disciples  and  bless- 
ing them.  he  turned  to  his 
Father,  in  the  most  intimate  man- 
ner and  talked  to  him  as  an  earth- 
Iv  son  would  talk  to  his  father, 
for  he  had  tried  to  impress  upon  his 
disciples  his  real  character  and  the 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


L9 


character  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
as  recorded  in  17th  chapter  of  John. 

"These  words  spake  Jesus,  and  lift- 
ed up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  and  said, 
Father,  the  hour  is  come;  gLorify  thy 
Son,  that  thy  Son  also  may  glorify 
thee:  As  thou  hast  given  him  power 
over  all  flesh,  that  he  should  give  eter- 
nal life  to  as  many  as  thou  hast  given 
him.  And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent.  1  have  glorified  thee  on  the 
earth:  1  have  finished  the  work  which 
thou  gavest  me  to  do.  And  now,  O 
Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine 
own  self  with  the  glory  which  I  had 
with  thee  before  the  world  was.  I 
have  manifested  thy  name  unto  the 
men  which  thou  gavest  me  out  of  the 
world:  thine  they  were,  and  thou 
gavest  them  me;  and  they  have  kept 
thy  word.  Now  they  have  known  that 
all  things  whatsoever  thou  hast  given 
me  are  of  thee.  For  I  have  given  unto 
them  the  words  which  thou  gavest 
me;  and  they  have  received  them,  and 
have  known  surely  that  I  came  out 
from  thee,  and  they  have  believed  that 
thou  didst  send  me.  I  pray  for  them: 
I  pray  not  for  the  world,  but  for  them 
which  thou  hast  given  me;  for  they 
are  thine.  And  all  mine  are  thine,  and 
thine  are  mine;  and  I  am  glorified  in 
them." 

To  me  that  is  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  passages  I  have  ever  read 
in  my  life.  After  his  close  associa- 
tion with  his  diciples,  to  turn  to  his 
Father  and  talk  to  him  as  one  man 
talketh  to  another !  He  knew  his 
Father  "easy."' 

I  believe  that  Latter-day  Saints 
who  live  their  religion  have  a  right 
to  know  God  our  Father  "easy," 
since  it  is  only  a  continuation  of 
their  childhood  idea  of  God.  When 
one  lives  in  the  world  and  meets 
men  and  women  of  other  faiths  who 
are  taught  from  childhood  to  get 
such  a  material  notion  out  of  their 
head  and  learn  to  conceive  of  God 
as  the  best  in    themselves,  their 


"highest  ideal,"  or  some  "great 
moving  power  beyond  the  concep- 
tion of  man,"  it  appeals  to  me  that 
it  is  good  to  be  still  children,  be- 
lieving in  the  God  that  "created 
man  in  his  own  image,"  the  God 
that  hears  and  answers  prayers,  our 
Father  who  claims  us  as  his  chil- 
dren. Some  of  the  learned  men  in 
the  world  have  said  that  we  were 
almost  vulgarly  materialistic.  It 
seems  to  me  that  no  man  was  more 
of  a  materialist  than  the  Master 
himself.  He  knew  his  Father  from 
the  beginning,  and  talked  with  him 
and  conversed  with  him,  and  talked 
about  him  as  if  he  actually  existed. 
To  the  Latter-day  Saints  he  is  a 
material  God,  he  is  our  Father,  and 
we  believe  in  him.  We  also  believe 
in  Jesus  Christ  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  the  veritable  Son  of  God, 
who  was  sent  to  earth  to  point  the 
way,  to  do  the  things  that  he  de- 
sired all  his  children  to  do,  that  we, 
too,  may  be  glorified  when  our 
earthly  missions  are  ended. 

On  the  occasion  spoken  of  above 
he  said : 

"If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  com- 
mandments,  and  I  will  pray  the 
Father  and  he  shall  give  you  an- 
other comforter  that  he  may  abide 
with  you  forever." 

"The  works  that  I  do  ye  shall  do, 
and  greater  works,  because  I  go  to 
the  Father." 

So.  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  a 
mission  in  the  world,  and  that  is  to 
teach  the  world  to  return  to  their 
chiF'hood  faith,  to  come  back  and 
believe  in  God  as  they  did  when 
thev  were  little  children,  for  he  said, 
"Fxcept  ye  be  as  a  little  child,  ye 
can  in  no  wise  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven" — not  children  in 
vears,  but  children  in  our  honest  be- 
lief in  God  our  Father  and  his  Son, 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Savior  of  the  world.  I  can  bear 
testimony  that  it  has  given  me  a 
great  deal  of  joy  to  see  the  faith 
manifested  in  the  life  of  the  young 
men  and  young  women  who  have 
come  to  the  Northern  States  Mis- 
sion. I  believe  that  true  faith  is 
growing  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
of  the  world.  It  is  my  firm  belief 
that  had  the  Christian  world  a  be- 
lief in  God  as  they  had  when  they 
were  children,  they  would  not  now 
be  engaged  in  killing  their  fellow 
men,  in  using  all  the  ability  that  is 
known  to  man  for  the  destruction 
of  each  other.  The  mission  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  to  bring  the  world  back 
to  believe  in  God  as  true  and  faith- 
ful children  ought  to  do,  and  hasten 
the  day  of  peace  and  true  brother- 
hood. 

We  have  a  little  advantage  over 
the  rest  of  the  world,  because  our 
Father  has  supplemented  the  teach- 
ings in  the  scriptures  by  a  visita- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Together  with  the  Savior  he  ap- 
peared manifesting  his  true  charac- 
ter and  clearing  away  all  doubt  as 
to  their  actual  existence.  This  mod- 
ern day  visitation  has  placed  us  in 
a  position  to  know  our  Father  and 
to  know  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  ought  to 
praise  God  for  this  glorious  revela- 
tion of  the  latter  days,  for  it  has 
brought  us  happiness  on  earth,  it 
has  brought  us  even  a  taste  of 
heaven  while  we  dwell  here  in  mor- 
tal flesh. 

The  mission  and  responsibility  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  and 
is  to  teach  these  great  truths  to  the 
world.  In  doing  so  they  do  real 
service  to  their  fellow  man  which 
is  described  by  one  man  as  stepping 
across  the  line  in  to  heaven.  Selfish 
work  is  earthly,    while    work  for 


others  is  akin  to  heavenly  things,  so 
'"if  you  want  to  go  to  heaven,  step 
across  the  line  and  do  things  for 
your  fellow  man."  Latter-day 
Saints,  especially  all  those  who 
have  been  upon  a  mission  and  all 
those  who  are  serving  as  mission- 
aries here  at  home,  administering 
to  the  sick,  teaching  the  principles 
of  the  gospel,  and  serving  their  fel- 
low men,  have  stepped  across  the 
line  and  are  even  enjoying  heaven 
upon  earth.  When  the  missionaries 
come  home  to  you,  they  say  it  is 
the  best  two  years  of  their  life. 
They  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  and 
presence  of  the  Lord  and  a  real 
taste  of  heaven.  Why?  Because 
they  have  been  using  all  their  time 
and  talents  in  the  service  of  their 
fellow  men.  When  you  are  in  the 
service  of  your  fellow  man,  you  are 
in  the  service  of  God  our  Father. 
So  says  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
And  surely,  when  a  man  is  in  the 
service  of  God  our  Father,  he  can 
easily  be  in  heaven. 

The  truth  revealed  from  heaven 
has  made  us  free,  and,  as  has  been 
said  by  some  of  the  speakers,  we 
are  a  free  people,  living  in  a  free 
land,  the  most  glorious  land  in  all 
the  world.  We  sing  and  talk 
about  the  inspired  constitution  of 
the  United  States.  Why  was  it  es- 
tablished? That  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  might  be  established  in 
the  earth.  Not  only  that,  but  this 
same  freedom  that  we  enjoy,  the 
whole  world  must  also  enjoy,  be- 
cause the  day  must  come  when 
every  man  will  have  a  chance  to 
hear  the  gospel  and  to  decide  for 
himself  which  way  he  will  go.  Else 
when  they  come  before  the  judg- 
ment seat,  they  can  say  to  the 
Father,  "I  could  not  be  anything 
else  but  a  Catholic,  or  a  Presbyter- 
ian, or  a  Lutheran,  and  be  true  to 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


131 


my  country,  so,  the  freedom  of 
America  must  be  the  freedom  of 
the  world,  that  the  gospel  may  be 
carried  to  the  honest  in  heart  of 
all  the  earth,  that  they  may  have 
a  chance  to  know  the  true  way. 

We  did  not  win  this  freedom 
without  a  struggle.  Eight  years  of 
war  and  four  years  of  civil  strife  is 
part  of  the  .price  we  paid.  In  the 
revolution  we  were  greatly  aided 
by  France,  and  at  the  surrender 
at  Yorktown,  when  Cornwallis 
marched  between  the  lines,  there 
were  5,500  American  soldiers  on 
one  side  and  7,000  Frenchmen  on 
the  other.  France  not  only  sent 
her  sons  but  she  sent  her  gold  as 
well  and  that  too  in  the  very  hour  of 
need.  We  are  now  called  upon  to 
send  our  sons  to  battle  in  the  old 
world  that  they  too  may  enjoy  the 
liberty  that  has  been  ours  for  so 
many,  many  years  and  likewise  the 
glorious  privilege  of  hearing  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  Lord 
bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
help  them  as  well  as  all  our  brothers 
in  this  nation,  to  acquit  themselves 
like  men  and  as  one  man  has  said, 
return  with  victory  upon  their  ban- 
ner and  a  wreath  of  laurel  woven 
out  of  the  evergreen  of  Russia,  the 
roses  of  England,  and  the  lillies  of 
France.  I  pray  God  that  our  boys 
will  not  only  come  back  with  a 
wreath  of  that  kind,  but  clean  and 
pure  from  the  sins  of  the  world, 
come  home  testifying  that  God 
opened  the  way  for  them  to  be 
great  missionaries,  not  only  of  lib- 
erty, but  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  having  had  their  faith  in- 
creased, having  had  their  knowl- 
edge extended,  and  with  a  testi- 
mony that  will  make  all  our  hearts 
ring  with  praise  to  God,  as  we  are 
sending  them  away. 

God  help  us,  to  serve  our  fellow 


men.  God  help  us  to-  know  not 
only  the  leaders  of  this  Church 
"easy,"  as  the  boy  said,  but  our 
Father  in  heaven.  If  we  will  keep 
close  to  our  leaders,  and  know  them 
as  they  are,  we  will  likewise  know 
God  as  he  is.  I  pray  that  the  peace 
and  blessings  of  heaven  may  be 
with  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen.  , 

Elder  James  Smith  sang  a  solo. 

ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK. 

(President    of    the    Western  States 
Mission.) 

"The  character  of  a  community 
or  a  nation  is  the  sum  of  the  indi- 
vidual qualities  of  its  component 
members."  The  words  I  have  just 
quoted  are  from  the  opening  sen- 
tence of  a  paper  supplied  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  to  a  great 
newspaper  syndicate  asking  him  for 
his  opinion  about  one  of  the  most 
important  themes  of  the  day.  The 
subject  was  captioned,  "Unchast- 
ity,  the  Dominating  Evil  of  the 
Age."  His  masterful  treatment  of 
that  theme  showed  that  a  deplor- 
able condition  exists  in  this  coun- 
try, as  I  presume  in  all  other  coun- 
tries, a  condition,  too,  that  none  of 
us,  I  believe,  would  attempt  to 
deny. 

It  is  eminently  proper  that  we 
look  this  situation  squarely  in  the 
face,  and  that  as  Latter-day  Saints 
we  act  accordingly,  not  only  be- 
cause of  the  condition  as  it  might 
appear  to  us,  in  ordinary  times,  but 
moreso  when  we  face,  as  we  do 
now,  one  of  the  greatest  perils  and 
one  of  the  most  crucial  situations 
that  has  ever  been  known  in  the 
earth.  Our  young  men  have  enlist- 
ed or  have  been  called  by  the  thous- 
ands to  fight  for  human  liberty.  We 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  joined  some  of  the  great  pow- 
ers of  the  world  to  that  end,  and 
this  country  must  stand  at  some 
time  or  other  as  the  great  ad- 
judicator between  the  nations  of 
the  world.  It  will  be  up  to  this 
nation  to  decide  what  is  best  to  be 
done,  and  how  best  to  do  it  to  set- 
tle the  well  nigh  insurmountable 
difficulties  that  have  arisen,  and  to 
do  ,so  justly  we  must  be  just  and 
ethical  ourselves.  Shall  it  be  said 
that  our  young  men  went  away 
from  their  homes  chaste  and  pure, 
and  that  they  returned  contami- 
nated with  immorality,  and  with 
disease  in  their  systems  ?  This  will 
be  true  unless  they  themselves  have 
been  taught  in  their  youth  to  be 
moral  and  chaste,  and  unless  they 
remember  the  words  of  their  par- 
ents and  teachers  when  they  face 
the  critical  temptations  as  they 
come  to  them  from  time  to  time. 

Do  you  know  that  more  men  of 
one  of  the  great  nations  were  put 
out  of  commission  because  of  sex- 
ual disease  than  by  bullets  or 
swords  or  dynamite  or  any  other 
thing,  in  the  first  year  of  this 
world  war?  Since  that  time,  they 
have  begun  to  correct  these  evils. 
We  want  to  correct  them  before 
they  go  too  far.  We  want  all  our 
young  men  to  know,  and  those  as- 
sociated with  them  to  know,  that 
they  should  set  the  example  and 
tell  other  men  what  it  means  to  re- 
spect womanhood.  No  man  should 
presume  to  take  a  liberty  with  any 
woman  that  he  would  not  be  willing 
for  some  one  else  to  take  with  his 
own  mother,  his  wife,  or  his  sis- 
ter. We  should  remember  that 
"real  happiness  must  be  earned,  like 
every  other  good  thing.  It  can 
only  be  deserved  when  its  price  has 
somehow  been  paid."  If  we  are 
going  to  be  supremely  happy,  if  we 


are  going  to  be  content,  we  must 
sacrifice,  we  must  live  a  moral  life. 
We  should  in  all  reason  live  above 
reproach.  I  mean  that  not  only  for 
soldiers,  but  for  every  son  and 
daughter  in  Zion. 

One  of  the  great  poets  had  this 
to  say  on  this  matter,  and  entitled, 
"The  Price  He  Paid" : 

"I  said  I  would  have  my  fling, 

And  do  as  a  young  man  may, 
And  I  didn't  believe  a  thing 

The  parsons  had  to  say^ 
And  I  didn't  believe  in  a  God 

Who  gives  us  blood  like  fire, 
And  flings  us  into  hell 

When  we  answer  the  call  of  desire. 

And  I  said,  Religion  is  rot, 

And  the  laws  of  the  world  are  nil, 
And  the  bad  man  is  one  who  is  caught 

And  cannot  pay  his  bill. 
And  there  is  no  place  called  hell; 

And  heaven  is  only  a  truth 
When  a  man  has  his  way  with  a  maid 

In  the  fresh,  keen  hours  of  youth. 

But  money  will  buy  us  grace 

When  it  falls  on  the  plate  of  the 
Church, 

And  money  will  neatly  erase 
Each  sign  of  a  sinful  smirch. 

For  I  saw  men  everywhere 
Hotfooting  the  road  to  vice, 

And  women  and  preachers  smiled  on 
them 

So  long  as  they  had  the  price. 

So  I  had  my  joy  of  life, 

And  went  the  pace  of  the  town, 
And  then  I  took  me  a  wife 

And  began  to  settle  down. 
I  had  gold  enough  and  to  spare 

For  all  the  simple  joys 
That  go  with  a  house  and  a  home 

And  a  brood  of  girls  and  boys. 

I  married  a  girl  with  health 
And  virtue  and  spotless  fame: 

I  gave  in  return  my  wealth 
And  a  proud  old  family  name. 

I  gave  her  the  love  of  a  heart 
Grown  sated  and  sick  with  sin; 

My  deal  with  the  devil  was  all  cleaned 
up, 

The  last  bill  was  handed  in. 


ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK. 


133 


She  was  going  to  bring  me  a  child, 

And  when  in  labor  she  cried, 
With  joy  and  fear  I  was  wild, 

And  now,  I  wish  I  had  died. 
The  son  she  bore  me  was  blind, 

And  crippled,  and  weak,  and  sore; 
The  mother  was  left  a  wreck; 

It  was  so  she  settled  my  score. 

I  said  I  would  have  my  way, 
Arid  they  all  knew  the  path  I  would 
go, 

Yet  no  one  told  me  a  thing 
Of  what  I  ought  to  know. 

Folks  talk  too  much  of  the  lives 
From  heavenly  joys  debarred, 

And  not  enough  of  the  babes  unborn, 
By  the  sins  of  their  fathers  scarred. 

Do  not  forget,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  if  we  sow  in  iniquity, 
in  corruption,  in  lust,  and  in  wick- 
edness, we  will  reap  the  whirlwind, 
and  the  price  will  somehow  and  in- 
evitably be  paid,  and  every  one  of 
us  will  suffer — not  only  for  our  ac- 
tual deeds,  we  are  told,  but  perhaps 
for  our  thinking  as  well. 

Wise  men  say  that  the  source  of 
everything  wicked  can  be  traced 
back  to  the  philosophic  thinking  of 
the  doer,  just  as  bitter  water  is 
traced  back  to  the  poison  spring; 
and  that  as  individuals  or  nations 
think  in  the  heart,  so  will  they  do 
in  the  life.  I  believe  that  firmly, 
and  I  believe  that  there  is  every  ne- 
cessity for  the  mothers  and  the 
fathers  in  Israel  to  see  that  their 
sons  and  their  daughters  are  pro- 
tected, and  that  when  they  are  old 
enough  to-  know  the  things  they 
ought  to  know,  that  they  should  not 
hesitate  to  tell  them  frankly  and 
plainly  what  they  have  to  meet,  and 
let  young  men  understand  that  they 
should  try  and  maintain  the  same 
kind  of  morals  that  are  demanded 
of  their  sisters.  That  is  the  kind 
of  ethics  we  have  been  teaching 
and  preaching;  it  is  a  part  of  the 


fundamental  teaching  of  "Mormon- 
ism." 

I  wonder  how  far  the  criticism 
aimed  by  President  Smith  in  his 
article  is  true  pertaining  to  this  in- 
termountain  country.  Should  it  be 
said  that  even  one  portion  of  it 
could  be  laid  at  our  door,  then  let 
us  remember  our  duties  to  our  chil- 
dren in  that  regard.  The  illus- 
trious Goethe  said,  "What  we  wish 
for  in  our  youth  comes  in  heaps 
upon  us  in  old  age."  You  know  as 
well  as  I  know,  that  that  is  true.  If 
we  are  not  careful  in  early  man- 
hood and  womanhood,  we  will  reap 
the  consequences  in  later  life,  and 
life  will  become  a  living  hell  on 
earth  instead  of  a  heaven  as  it 
ought  to  be. 

God  grant  his  blessing  to  be  with 
Israel,  to  be  with  our  boys  who  are 
going  away  to  fight  our  battles,  to 
be  with  those  sons  who  are  in  the 
mission  field  and  those  who  are 
left  at  home,  that  we  may  continue 
to  raise  the  standard  of  morals  in 
this  community,  and  thus  benefit  by 
our  action  aud  our  words,  the  moral 
uplift  of  the  world,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the   First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  am  not  accustomed  to  speak  in 
audiences  out  of  doors.  I  have  al- 
ways had  them  closed  in  where 
they  could  not  get  away.  (Laugh- 
ter.) Brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  I  want  to  bless  you  people, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  for  he 
surely  ought  to  bless  a  people  who 
hunger  and  thirst  after  righteous- 
ness enough  to  stand  up  as  you 
have  stood  and  listen  to  the  word  of 
the  Lord. 

I  bless  you,  as  I  have  blessed 
hundreds  and  hundreds  of  elders 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


who  have  gone  on  missions.  I 
have  had  many  of  them  come  back 
and  say,  "Brother  Kimball,  every 
promise  you  made  has  been  ful- 
filled." One  of  the  easiest  things 
to  do  in  the  Church  in  our  ministry- 
is  to  bless  an  elder  or  a  missionary 
sister  who  goes  out  in  the  service 
of  the  Lord  and  does  his  will  and 
keeps  his  commandments.  I  have 
never  been  afraid  up  to  date  to 
promise  them  that  they  would  go  in 
peace  and  return  in  safety. 

Why  fear  .death  ?  That  is  what  I 
am  talking  about  to  myself  all  the 
time.  People  have  been  looking  for 
it  in  every  case  for  a  considerable 
length  of  time,  but  I  have  fooled 
them  up  to  date  ;and  I  am  trying 
to  learn  not  to  fear  death.  A  great 
man  said  when  he  went  down  with 
the  ship,  "Why  fear  death?  It 
is  the  most  beautiful  adventure  of 
life."  He  must  have  been  exalted 
by  a  spiritual  enthusiasm  such  as 
elders  have  when  they  go  out  into 
the  world  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  They  feel  as  Christ  felt 
when  he  said,  "Think  not  of  your 
life,  of  what  you  shall  eat,  or  of 
what  you  shall  drink,  nor  of  your 
body  what  you  shall  put  on."  I 
want  to  say,  on  the  side,  that  is 
about  all  we  are  thinking  about,  at 
least  some  of  us. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
short  time  I  occupy  I  want  to  say 
to  you,  my  knowledge  is  very  lim- 
ited, and  it  does  not  take  me  very 
long  to  tell  it,  but  what  I  do  know, 
I  know  as  well  as  any  man  in  this 
Church  from  the  least  to  the  great- 
est. Why  do  I  know  it  ?  Because  I 
have  learned  it  through  the  things 
which  I  have  suffered.  We  have 
to  suffer  .sometimes  to  find  things 
out;  until  our  hearts  are  twisted, 
before  we  are  meek  and  humble 
and  have  faith  in  God. 


I  remember  reading  a  story. 
The  incident  happened  during  the 
civil  war,  when  a  large  committee 
of  Christian  ministers  came  to 
Washington  to  wait  on  President 
Abraham  Lincoln.  After  they  had 
performed  their  duties,  one  of 
the  Christian  ministers  turned  to 
President  Lincoln,  and  he  said,  "I 
hope  the  Lord  is  on  our  side." 
That  is  what  all  these  nations  are 
hoping,  that  the  Lord  is  on  their 
side.  And  President  Lincoln  said, 
"Well,  I  am  not  much  concerned 
about  the  Lord  being  on  our  side," 
which  was  quite  a  shock  to  those 
ministers.  "I  am  not  concerned 
about  that.  What  I  am  most  con- 
cerned about  is  whether  we  are  on 
the  Lord's  side."  That  is  what  I 
want  you  to  be  concerned  about, 
you  men  who  hold  the  holy  priest- 
hood ;  you  want  to  remember,  in 
this  great  rush  and  hurry,  not  to  be 
too  much  taken  up  with  man's  bus- 
iness, but  you  want  to  be  exercised 
more  about  "our  Father's  busi- 
ness." 

You  have  listened  to  three  presi- 
dents of  missions — the  Southern, 
Northern,  and  Western  States  Mis- 
sions. I  know  just  about  as  much 
about  missionary  work  as  they  do. 
I  spent  five  years  in  the  Southern 
States,  and  filled  my  first  mission, 
in  1883,  when  they  killed  elders.  I 
was  with  Elder  Roberts,  and  I 
know  all  about  that  experience.  I 
never  got  much  notoriety  out  of  it, 
but  I  know  something  about  it,  just 
as  much  as  anyone  who  was  there. 
I  know  what  it  means  to  smell 
powder,  and  I  am  glad  of  it,  and  I 
thank  the  Lord  I  did  not  run.  I 
guess  I  would  have  done  so,  but  I 
had  no  place  to  go.  (Laughter.) 
These  brethren  that  have  been  talk- 
ing to  you  have  been  in  the  Lord's 
service,  they  are  soldiers  of  the 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


135 


Cross,  and  they  are  too  old  to  go  in 
the  army  of  the  United  States ;  and 
so  am  I.  But  I  would  like  to 
touch  off  a  13-inch  gun  anyhow. 
(Laughter.)  I  am  a  great  believer 
in  the  United  States,  but  my  service 
is  first  for  God,  for  our  heavenly 
Father.  Do  you  remember  when 
the  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  was  of  the 
age  of  twelve?  I  think  it  was 
quoted  at  this  meeting.  He  was 
in  Jerusalem  talking  with  those 
learned  men  and  hearing  and  ar- 
guing with  them,  and  his  mother 
came  back  for  him  very  much  con- 
cerned. He  said,  "Wist  ye  not 
that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's 
business?"  That  is  what  we  want 
to  be  concerned  about. 

I  think  you  recognize  the  fact  that 
I  am  the  son  of  a  prophet  of  God. 
And  I  am  mighty  proud  of  it. 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  a  short  time  be- 
fore he  died,  often  said  to  the  peo- 
ple, "O,  the  test,  the  test,  the  test 
— who  will  be  able  to  stand?  And 
the  answer  comes  back,  'Only 
those  who  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.'  "  Don't  go  off  and  forget 
it.  There  is  a  great  test  on,  and  it 
is  only  those  who  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  that  will  be  able  to 
stand.  I  want  to  say  to  you  breth- 
ren that  if  it  is  the  last  time  I 
speak  in  the  flesh,  I  feel  that  I  am 
greater  than  a  king  on  his  throne, 
I  am  so  much  bigger  than  the 
Kaiser  that  I  would  not  mention 
him  in  the  .same  breath.  (Laugh- 
ter.) Why?  Because  I  hold  the 
priesthood  of  God,  because  I  am  a 
servant  of  God,  because  it  is  my 
right  and  privilege  when  I  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  to  test- 
ify under  the  spirit  of  prophecy  and 
revelation  of  this  great  truth. 

I  am  going  to  ask  you  a  few  ques- 
tions, and  will  let  you  answer  them. 
Tf  you  don't  know  enough  to  an- 


swer them,  then  you  don't  know  as 
much  as  I  do.  (Laughter.)  I  am 
going  to  ask  you  this  question,  Do 
you  know  of  anything — you  can 
think  about  your  money,  your 
wives,  and  children,  and  everything 
else — but  do  you  know  of  anything 
in  all  this  beautiful  world  more  im- 
portant than  human  life?  If  you 
do,  just  hold  up  your  hands. 

I  am  going  to  ask  it  in  another 
way :  "Do  you  know  of  anything 
in  all  this  universe  that  is  dearer  to 
the  Father  than  a  human  soul? 
You  don't. 

I  am  going  to  ask  you  another 
question :  Do  you  know  of  any  gift 
in  all  this  world,  or  blessing,  that 
is  greater  than  salvation?  No,  be- 
cause God  said  in  the  revelation 
that  "salvation  is  the  greatest  gift 
of  God  to  his  children."  These  are 
reasons  why  you  ought  to  be  in  the 
service  of  the  Lord.  That  is  why 
these  presidents  of  missions  and  el- 
ders are  blessed,  and  that  is  why  we 
are  able  to  come  home  as  I  did  from 
the  South  in  1884 — and  it  is  one  of 
the  greatest  truths  I  ever  told  in  my 
life —  although  I  never  had  as  hard 
a  time  in  all  my  life  as  I  had  in 
the  South,  and  when  I  think  of  it 
now,  T  actually  shudder ; — and  yet  T 
came  home  to  you  people,  and  I 
looked  you  in  the  face  and  I  told 
you  it  was  the  happiest  time  of  all 
my  life,  and  I  never  lied,  either. 
That  is  what  you  get  for  being  in 
the  service  of  the  Lord. 

I  will  conclude  by  reading  to  you 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It 
has  impressed  me  very  much,  and  I 
want  you  to  think  about  it  just  as 
I  have  been  doing. 

Therefore  may  God  grant  unto  you, 
my  brethren,  that  ye  may  begin  to 
exercise  your  faith  unto  repentance, 
that  ye  begin  to  call  upon  his  holy 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


name,  that  he  would  have  mercy  upon 
you ; 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  for  mercy;  for 
he  is  mighty  to  save; 

Yea,  humble  yourselves,  and  con- 
tinue in  prayer  unto  him; 

Cry  unto  him  when  ye  are  in  your 
fields;  yea,  over  all  your  flocks; 

Cry  unto  him  in  your  houses,  yea, 
over  all  your  household,  both  morn- 
ing, mid-day,  and  evening; 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  power 
of  your  enemies; 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  devil, 
who  is  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness. 

Cry  unto  him  over  the  crops  of 
your  fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in 
them; 

Cry  over  the  flo.cks  .of  your  fields, 
that  they  may  increase. 

But  this  is  not  all;  ye  must  pour 
out  your  souls  in  your  closets,  and 
your  secret  places,  and  in  your  wil- 
derness ; 

Yea,  and  when  you  do  not  cry  unto 
the  Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full, 
drawn  out  in  prayer  unto  him  con- 
tinually for  your  welfare,  and  also  for 
the  welfare  of  those  who  are  around 
you. 

And  now  behold,  my  beloved  breth- 
ren, I  say  unto  you,  do  not  suppose 
that  this  is  all;  for  after  ye  have  done 
all  these  things,  if  ye  turn  away  the 
needy,  and  the  naked,  and  visit  not 
the  sick  and  afflicted,  and  impart  of 
your  substance,  if  ye  have,  to  those 
who  stand  in  need;  I  say  unto  you, 
if  ye  do  not  any  of  these  things,  be- 
hold, your  prayer  is  vain,  and  avail- 
eth  you  nothing,  and  ye  are  as  hypo- 
crites who  do  deny  the  faith; 

Therefore,  if  ye  do  not  remember  to 
be  charitable,  ye  are  as  dross,  which 
the  refiners  do  cast  out,  (it  being  of 
no  worth,)  and  is  trodden  under  foot 
of  men. 

Try  and  remember  that,  will  you  ? 

As  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  I  only 
want  to  repeat  what  the  servants  of 
God  have  said :  "These  are  the  last 
days,  spoken  of  by  the  prophets, 
when  perilous  times  shall  come;" 
and  you  know,  as  I  know,  by  what 
we  read,  that  the  most  striking 
feature  of  this  world  war  is  the 
great   destruction   of   life,  which 


owes  its  success,  if  there  be  success, 
to  the  employment  of  almost  all  the 
science  of  the  world,  except  the 
numerous  discoveries  in  surgery 
and  medicine  which  is  freely  given, 
ar.d  the  physician,  as  a  physician, 
knows  no  difference  between  races 
and  nations,  between  friend  and 
foe. 

This  is  the  biggest  thing  that 
physicians  ever  did,  and  I  pray  God 
to  bless  them  in  their  efforts  to  save 
life. 

There  has  never  been  a  time  such 
as  the  present  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  when  men  ought  to  be  talk- 
ing big  things,  thinking  big  things, 
doing  big  things  and  overcoming 
their  selfishness.  It  is  a  day  of 
destruction,  and  leaders  must  be 
raised  up  who  are  constructive. 
Constructive  work  sometimes  means 
destructive — you  tear  down  to 
build  up — you  change  the  old 
for  the  new.  Leaders  must  have  a 
knowledge  of  mankind  in  order  that 
the  Lord's  plans  may  be  carried  out. 

The  German  nation  is  one  of  the 
greatest  nations  today,  when  we 
consider  her  social  and  industrial 
condition,  although  it  is  founded  on 
militarism. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  as  it  has  been  or- 
ganized through  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith,  is  more  perfectly  or- 
ganized and  greater  than  any  or- 
ganization upon  the  earth. 

When  you  contemplate  this  great 
organization  you  find  prophets  and 
inspiration  which  is  not  founded  on 
militarism,  but  brotherhood,  fra- 
ternity, and  "love-one-another," 
which  is  in  accordance  with  the 
teachings  of  Jesus  Christ.  The 
great  test  was :  "By  this  shall  all 
men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples, 
if  ye  have  love  one  to  another." 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


137 


If  you  have  not  love  for  one  an- 
other you  have  not  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD. 

(President  of  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  This 
brings  our  conference  to  a  close,  in 
connection  with  the  other  meetings" 
that  are  now  being  held.  While  I 
have  sat  here  and  also  in  the  taber- 
nacle, I  have  wondered  what  the  re- 
sult of  this  great  conference  will  be. 
Have  we  come  just  to  listen  and  go 
home  in  the  same  condition  that  we 
came  ?  There  may  be  some,  but  the 
great  mass  of  the  people,  I  trust, 
are  inspired  by  the  exercises  of  this 
conference  to  go  home  and  live  ac- 
cording to  all  the  teachings  that 
have  been  given.  "Let  your  light 
so  shine  that  others,  seeing  your 
good  works,  may  be  led  to  glorify 
our  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

Upon  this  block  we  entertain  the 
strangers  from  all  parts  of  the 
world.  During  the  past  week,  a 
gentleman  entered  the  building 
here,  a  perfect  stranger,  coming 
from  the  state  of  Ohio.  He  wanted 
to  learn  about  our  people,  and  after 
he  had  been  entertained,  he  said,  "I 
have  working  for  me  at  my  home  a 
member  of  your  Church,  and  I  want 
to  say  that  if  all  your  members  are 
as  honest,  as  true,  as  devoted,  and 
as  trustworthy  as  that  man,  you 
need  to  be  proud." 

Well,  we  are  proud.  With  all  our 
shortcomings,  we  may  be  proud  of 
our  people ;  and  I  trust  that  the 
record  we  are  making  will  continue. 

Brother  Herrick  referred  espe- 
cially to  the  necessity  of  training 


our  youth  in  virtue,  in  godliness.  I 
visited  a  southern  stake  of  Zion, 
just  recently,  in  conection  with  our 
Church  work,  and  met  a  poor 
widow  there,  who  had  raised  to 
manhood  and  womanhood  a^splen- 
<"id  family,  and  when  she  was 
speaking  to  me,  she  said  that  the 
remark  of  one  of  her  boys  had  been 
worth  all  her  efforts.  "Last  Christ- 
mas," she  said,  "I  did  not  have  the 
means  to  distribute  the  tokens  to 
my  children  that  I  would  like,  and 
to  my  youngest  son,  who  was  mar- 
ried, I  said,  'My  boy,  O  my  heart 
aches  that  I  cannot  give  to  you  and 
to  the  rest  of  my  children  some 
substantial  token  at  Christmas  time 
of  my  love  for  you.'  And  the 
young  man  stood  there  looking  his 
mother  in  the  eyes,  and  said,  'Why, 
mother,  you  have  given  unto  me 
something  more  than  all  the  Christ- 
mas gifts  that  I  could  possibly  ob- 
tain. You  have  given  me  a  good 
training,  a  good  education,  and 
more  than  all,  a  clean  body — and, 
mother,  I  thank  you  for  that  pre- 
cious gift  that  has  come  unto  me. 
urd  I  want  to  live  to  be  worthy  of 
such  a  mother.'  " 

May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  Let  us  go  to  our 
homes  with  renewed  determination, 
as  a  result  of  this  conference,  to 
serve  God,  to  be  honest,  true, 
chaste,  virtuous,  according  to  the 
declaration  in  our  Articles  of  Faith, 
doing  good  unto  all  men.  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

The  authorities  of  the  Church 
were  sustained  unanimously  as  in 
the  Tabernacle  meeting. 

The  Latter-day  Saints'  Univer- 
sity choir  sang  a  chorus,  "Victory." 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  B.  Cecil  Gates. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle  the  conference 
was  called  to  order  at  2  p.  m.,  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
presided. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  and  the 
congregation  sang  the  hymn : 
"Z'on  stands  with  hills  surround- 
ed." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
bv  President  Wilford  Day,  of  the 
Parowan  stake  of  Zion. 

A  tenor  solo,  "An  Hour  of 
Peace,"  was  sung  by  James  H. 
Neilson. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

Are  there  few  that  be  saved? — Christ's 
provisional  and  incomplete  answer 
in  the  meridian  dispensation — Car- 
ried forward  in  the  later  dispensa- 
tion— Another  illustrative  instance 
— Sermon  of  the  shepherd  and  the 
sheep — Lay  hold  on  eternal  life. 

At  this  closing  session  of  the  gen- 
eral conference,  it  is  possible  to  look 
in  retrospect  over  what  has  been 
said  in  the  earlier  meetings.  I  have 
followed  with  interest  the  remarks 
of  every  speaker  and,  as  each  one 
closed,  I  have  felt  that  had  I  then 
been  called  to  speak  I  could  have 
taken  up  the  theme  of  the  discourse 
and  carried  it  on,  having  the  spirit 
of  it  and  feeling  the  genius  of  it, 
so  full  of  suggestion  and  instruc- 
tion has  been  every  address. 

I  listened  with  particular  and 
peculiar  interest  to  the  remarks  of 
the  brethren  this  morning  relating 
to  science,  falsely  so-called,  and  to 
the  truths  that  have  been  revealed 


respecting  man  and  his  position  in 
Nature ;  and  as  I  have  given  that 
subject  some  attention  through 
many  years  I  was  prepared  to  say 
something;  but  I  shall  content  my- 
self now  with  a  simple  expression 
of  perfect  accord  and  agreement 
with  the  spirit  of  what  was  said. 
We  learned  from  the  addresses 
given  this  morning  a  little  regard- 
ing the  origin  of  man — whence  he 
came ;  and  we  have  heard  through 
other  addresses  much  as  to  where 
he  is  going.  I  feel  rather  inclined 
to  dwell  briefly  upon  the  subject  of 
his  present  duty,  the  duty  of  the 
day  and  the  duty  of  the  hour. 

In  that  regard  I  remember  a  very 
significant  question  that  was  sub- 
mitted to  the  Christ.  We  all  know 
how  he  was  subjected  to  question- 
ing on  many  occasions,  the  purpose 
of  the  questioner  sometimes  being 
to  entrap  him,  if  possible,  in  some 
incautious  word,  or  to  lead  him  to 
some  overt  utterance  or  act,  where- 
by it  was  hoped  to  find  excuses  for 
accusation.  Some  of  the  questions, 
however,  seemed  to  have  been  in- 
spired by  worthy  intent,  and  of  this 
kind  is  the  one  to  which  I  ask  your 
attention. 

As  I  read  in  the  13th  chapter  of 
Luke,  beginnig  with  the  22nd  verse 
— Christ  was  on  his  way  to  Jeru- 
salem, the  last  journey  he  was  to 
take  through  the  provinces  and  up 
to  the  capital,  for  although  there 
were  some  brief  interruptions,  this 
was  in  effect  his  march  to  the  cross 
and  to  the  tomb.  He  traveled 
slowlv,  teaching  in  the  towns,  on 
the  high-ways  and  in  the  by-ways, 
wherever  people  would  pause  to  lis- 
ten. Tn  the  course  of  such  min- 
istry the  following  incident  oc- 
curred, as  he  went  through  the 
cities  and  villages  teaching  and 
journeying  toward  Jerusalem : 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T  ALU  AGE. 


139 


"Then  said  one  unto  him,  Lord,  are 
there  few  that  be  saved?" 

Consider  the  question.  It  is  just 
as  important  today  as  it  was  then. 
It  is  recorded  in  the  short,  lapidar 
style  of  the  scriptural  record,  terse, 
concise,  condensed.  Putting  it  into 
our  modern  speech,  it  meant  this: 
Lord,  tell  us,  of  the  thousands  and 
millions  living  upon  the  earth  and 
of  the  untold  myriads  that  have 
lived  and  died  and  of  all  that  are 
to  come  into  the  flesh,  will  there 
be  a  majority,  many,  saved,  or  only 
a  few?  Hasn't  that  question  pre- 
sented itself  to  you  individually  ?  I 
believe  it  has  come  up  in  the  heart 
of  every  earnest  student  of  the  gos- 
pel, of  every  prayerful  investigator 
of  the  truth.  "Lord,  are  there  few 
that  be  saved,"  or  will  the  most  of 
us  be  saved  and  only  a  few  be 
lost?  Note  his  rejoinder — response 
— it  is  not  an  answer : 

"Then  said  one  unto  him,  Lord,  are 
there  few  that  be  saved?  And  he  said 
unto  them, 

"Strive  to  enter  in  at  the  strait 
gate;  for  many,  I  say  unto  you,  will 
seek  to  enter  in,  and  shall  not  be  able. 

"When  once  the  master  of  the 
house  is  risen  up,  and  hath  shut  to 
the  door  and  ye  begin  to  stand  with- 
out, and  to  knock  at  the  door,  saying, 
Lord,  Lord,  open  unto  us;  and  he 
shall  answer  'and  say  unto  you,  I 
know  you  not  whence  ye  are. 

"Then  shall  ye  begin  to  say,  We 
have  eaten  and  drunk  in  thy  presence, 
and  thou  hast  taught  in  our  streets. 

"But  he  shall  say,  I  tell  you,  I  know 
you  .not  whence  ye  are;  depart  from 
me,  all  ye  workers  of  iniquity. 

"There  shall  be  weeping  and  gnash- 
ing of  teeth,  when  ye  shall  see  Abra- 
ham, and  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  all  the 
prophets,  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
you  yourselves  thrust  out. 

"And  they  shall  come  from  the  east, 
and  from  the  west,  and  from  the 
north  and  from  the  south,  and  shall 
sit  down  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  behold  there  are  last  which 


shall  be  first,  and  there  are  first  which 
shall  be  last." 

I  ask  your  attention  to  a  very 
grievous  mistranslation  in  that 
scripture.  The  error  is  expressed 
by  misleading  punctuation.  This 
•division  of  the  scriptures  into  chap- 
ters and  verses,  is,  as  you  know,  a 
comparatively  modern  innovation 
and  it  has  been  made  by  the  best 
skill  and  wisdom  of  men,  but  men's 
skill  sometimes  fails  and  men's  wis- 
dom may  come  to  naught.  The 
error  in  question  is  none  the  less 
grievous  because  it  is  one  of  punc- 
tuation only  rather  than  of  word- 
ing. Here  is  one  of  the  errors 
against  which  we  protect  ourselves 
in  our  declaration  of  faith  when 
we  say,  "We  believe  the  Bible  to  be 
the  word  of  God  .as  far  as  it  is 
translated  correctly."  We  do  not 
follow  the  mistranslations.  This  is 
not  peculiarly  or  particularly  "Mor- 
mon" criticism.  Scholars,  theo- 
logians, philologists  of  the  day  ad- 
mit the  mistake  but  there  it  stands. 
I  want  to  read  to  you  again  the 
passage  as  it  is,  and  then  read  it  to 
you  as  it  should  be,  according  to 
the  best  authority  we  have.  Christ 
said  to  them  in  response  to  their 
question :  "Strive  to  enter  in  at  the 
strait  srate,  for  many,  I  say  unto 
you,  will  seek  to  enter  in  and  shall 
not  be  able."  There  endeth  the 
twentv- fourth  verse,  and  the  twen- 
tv-fifth  verse,  beginning  a  new  sen- 
tence, reads : 

"When  once  the  master  of  the 
house  is  risen  up,  and  hath  shut  to 
the  door  and  ye  begin  to  stand 
without  and  to  knock  at  the  door," 
and  so  forth.  Now,  there  should 
be  no  period  there ;  there  should  be 
no  division  in  the  verses  and  the 
passage  should  read  in  this  wise : 

"Strive  to  enter  in  at  the  strait 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


gate,  for  many,  I  say  unto  you, 
will  seek  to  enter  in,  and  shall  not 
b,e  able  when  once  the  master  of  the 
house  is  risen  up,  and  hath  shut  to 
the  door." 

Do  you  see  the  difference  in 
meaning?  One  is  an  indicative 
statement  only,  however  great  its 
portent;  the  other  brings  in  the 
time  element  and  the  fact  that  there 
is  opportunity  which  will  pass — 
Strive  to  enter  in  now  because  many 
will  come  seeking  to  get  in  and 
will  not  be  able  when  once  the  mas- 
ter of  the  house  hath  risen  up  and 
hath  shut  to  the  door.  It  is  all  in 
line  with  the  tenor  of  the  scripture, 
with  the  words  of  Paul  and  the 
other  apostles.  Do  you  call  to  mind 
the  urgent  behest — Lay  hold  on  the 
kingdom  and  on  eternal  life  while 
you  can.  Don't  procrastinate. 
And  that  in  harmony  with  the  voice 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  prophets — 
Don't  procrastinate  the  day  of  your 
repentance,  or  you  may  find  it  im- 
possible to  repent  when  you  would. 
I  commend  this  .scripture  to  you,  as 
recorded  by  Luke ;  but  coming  back 
to  the  question : 

Didn't  you  feel  a  little  disap- 
pointed at  the  fact  that  Christ  did 
not  give  a  plain  answer  to  that  ques- 
tion ?  I  did :  I  felt  disappointed 
when  I  first  read  it,  when  I  first 
pondered  it  so  far  as  I  can  remem- 
ber, and  I  have  had  a  little  disap- 
pointment many  times  since.  Oh, 
if  he  had  only  answered  that 
squarely  and  definitely,  how  much 
more  satisfied  or  dissatisfied,  as  the 
case  may  be,  we  would  severally 
find  ourselves.  Will  many  or  only 
few  be  saved?  Suppose  he  had  an- 
swered, Oh,  most  of  you,  most  of 
vou,  there  will  only  be  a  few  lost. 
Wouldn't  we  have  taken  license 
from  it,  wouldn't  we  have  given 
way    to    carelessness    even  more 


than  we  do?  Suppose  he  had  said 
— Only  a  few  will  be  .saved  and  all 
the  great  majority  will  be  lost  and 
be  forever  condemned  and  be  thrust 
out  into  outer  darkness.  What  a 
gloomy  picture  it  would  have  been. 
But  why  didn't  Christ  answer  the 
question?  It  seems  to  have  been 
put  in  earnestness,  it  was  not  a 
trick  question,  there  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  any  trap  concealed  in 
it:  "Lord,  are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  Would  it  not  have  been 
an  easy  matter  for  him  to  answer 
it  in  a  direct  way?  But  he  evades 
it,  and  gives  us  a  sermon,  a  very- 
beautiful  and  encouraging  sermon, 
it  is  true,  one  embodying  great 
truth,  but  it  does  not  answer  the 
question  directly,  and  why?  For 
the  reason,  the  very  same  reason 
that  operated  to  cut  many  another 
sermon  of  his  so  short.  Have  you 
not  read  his  sermons  and  time  and 
time  again  been  disappointed  be- 
cause he  closed  so  abruptly? 

Let  me  digress  a  moment  and 
illustrate  by  another  incident.  Read 
for  yourselves,  for  I  have  not  time 
to  read  it,  in  the  10th  chapter  of 
John,  beginning,  at  the  16th  verse. 
He  was  delivering  at  the  time  there 
referred  to  that  splendid  discourse 
of  his  concerning  the  shepherd  and 
the  sheep.  He  was  explaining  the 
difference  between  a  shepherd  and  a 
sheepherder,  a  vital  difference,  and 
in  the  course  of  his  remarks,  he 
paused  to  tell  them  that  there  were 
other  sheep  not  of  that  fold.  Picture 
him  discoursing  about  himself  as 
the  shepherd  and  about  his  follow- 
ers as  the  sheep.  He  says  in  the 
15th  verse : 

"As  the  Father  knoweth  me,  eyen 
so  know  I  the  Father;  and  I  lay 
down  my  life  for  the  sheep." 

Now  comes  the  interpolation : 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


141 


"And  other  sheep  1  have,  which  are 
not  of  this  fold;  them  also  I  must 
bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my  voice; 
and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
shepherd." 

And  now,  mark  you,  that  is  all 
he  says  about  that  phase,  that  par- 
ticular topic.  He  goes  right  back 
to  the  subject  broken  off  in  the 
earlier  verse: 

"Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  m.e, 
because  I  lay  down  my  life." 

Now,  haven't  you  wished,  when 
you  read  that,  that  you  could  have 
heard  more?  The  question  natur- 
ally arises  in  our  minds,  Didn't  he 
po.ssibly  say  more,  which  was  left 
out  by  the  recorder?  No,  he  did 
not.  That  is  all  he  said  about  that 
subject  at  the  time.  If  you  want  to 
read  the  rest  of  that  sermon,  turn 
to  the  15th  chapter  of  the  third 
book  of  Nephi.  That  is  where  he 
picked  it  up  again  and  carried  it  on. 
Like  many  another  of  his  sermons, 
this  was  begun  on  one  continent 
and  carried  on  on  another,  as  we 
find  some  of  his  sermons  begun  in 
one  dispensation  and  carried  for- 
ward in  a  later  one.  Now,  in  the 
3rd  book  of  Nephi.  15th  chapter 
vou  will  find  that  Christ  picks  up 
the  theme  of  that  discourse  where 
he  left  it  off  in  Jerusalem.  Christ 
there  tells  his  Nephite  disciples  and 
the  people  generally  that  he  had 
been  teaching  in  Jerusalem  accord- 
ing to  the  commandment  of  the 
Father,  and  he  says : 

"And  not  at  any  time  hath  the 
Father  given  me  commandment  that 
T  should  tell  it  unto  your  brethren  at 
Jerusalem ; 

"Neither  at  any  time  hath  the 
Father  given  me  commandment  that 
T  should  tell  unto  them  concerning 
the  other  tribes  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
whom  the  Father  hath  led  away  out 
of  the  land. 


"This  much  did  the  Father  com- 
mand me,  that  I  should  tell  unto 
them, 

"That  other  sheep  I  have,  which 
are  ,not  ,of  this  fold;  them  also  must 
I  bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my  voice; 
and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
shepherd." 

The  next  verse  explains  why  he 
had  not  said  more  to  the  people  at 
Jerusalem : 

"And  now  because  of  stiffnecked- 
ness  and  unbelief,  they  understood 
not  my  word;  therefore  I  was  com- 
manded to  say  no  more  ,of  the  Father 
concerning  this  thing  unto  them." 

Read  the  intervening  verses  for 
yourselves  and  then  note  this  in  the 
21st  verse : 

"And  verily  I  ,say  unto  you" — 
these  are  his  words  to  the  Nephites 
— "That  ye  are  they  of  whom  I 
said,  other  sheep  I  have  which  are 
not  of  this  fold ;  them  also  I  must 
bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my  voice ; 
and  there  shall  be  one  fold  and  one 
shepherd." 

In  the  next  chapter  he  carries  the 
same  sermon  regarding  other  sheep 
a  little  further,  and  makes  plain  that 
there  yet  are  other  sheep  of  still 
another  fold  to  whom  or  to  which 
he  was  then  about  to  go.  Thus  we 
find  these  splendid  addresses  oft- 
times  divided  up — one  part  in  one 
volume  and  another  part  continued 
in  the  next. 

So  it  was  with  this  particular 
sermon  regarding  the  sheep,  the 
shepherd  and  the  sheep-herder,  and 
so  regarding  this  question  again, 
"Lord,  are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  He  answered  it  in  part, giv- 
ing the  questioner  and  hearers  very 
direct  warning,  telling  them  to  en- 
ter in  at  the  strait  gate  while  they 
had  a  chance,  because  after  the 
Master  of  the  house  hath  arisen  tip 
and  shut  to  the  door  they  will  knock 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  vain,  and  when  they  plead  that 
they  have  known  him,  he  will  an- 
swer that  he  has  never  known  them. 
He  warns  them  against  assuming 
that  because  they  had  citizenship 
in  Israel  they  would  be  saved 
thereby,  and  tells  them  of  the  dire 
consequences  of  their  neglect,  when 
they  shall  see  the  prophets  enter  into 
the  place  prepared  for  them  and 
they  themselves  shut  out,  when  they 
shall  see  others  coming  from  the 
east  and  from  the  west  and  from 
the  north  and  from  the  south  to  sit 
clown  with  Abraham  and  Isaac  and 
Jacob  and  yet  and  still  and  never- 
theless, they  themselves  shut  out. 

But,  as  said  before,  he  did  not 
answer  the  question  fully,  "Lord, 
are  there  few  that  be  saved?"  The 
reason  was  precisely  analogous  to 
that  which  prevented  him  from  car- 
rying on  his  sermon  regarding  those 
other  .sheep,  because  of  the  people's 
unbelief,  stiffneckedness,  and  in- 
ability to  comprehend.  Those  Jews 
had  been  brought  up  in  all  the  tradi- 
tions of  the  law  and  the  thousand 
and  one  rules  that  had  been  attached 
to  every  feature  of  the  law.  They 
believed  in  a  heaven  which  they 
called  Abraham's  bosom,  and  in  a 
hell,  and  in  no  habited  space  be- 
tween. Every  man,  they  thought, 
would  go  either  into  that  heaven  of 
supreme  bliss  or  into  that  hell  of 
dire  torment ;  and  they  were  not 
prepared  to  know  the  truth.  Now, 
suppose  that  Christ  had  said  unto 
them,  "Many  will  be  saved,  most 
of  you,  will  be  saved."  They  would 
have  taken  that  to  mean  that  many 
of  them,  the  mo.st  of  them,  prac- 
tically all  of  them,  would  attain  that 
place  of  bliss  to  which  they  referred 
is  Abraham's  bosom.  If  he  had  told 
them  only  few,  they  would  have  un- 
dertsood  him  to  mean  that  the 
greater  part  would  be  consigned  to 


hell  with  all  its  torments.  He  could 
not  finish  the  sermon,  he  could  not 
answer  them  directly  because  of 
their  unbelief,  because  of  their  wil- 
ful ignorance,  because  of  their  in- 
ability to  understand  him;  and  you 
will  notice  that  Christ,  the  Master 
of  masters,  the  Teacher  of  teachers, 
followed  scrupulously  the  instruc- 
tion he  gave  unto  his  apostles — not 
to  cast  pearls  before  swine  nor  to 
throw  the  great  truths  of  the  gospel 
into  the  mire,  at  the  feet  of  those 
who  were  not  willing  to  understand. 

So,  with  masterful  skill  we  find 
bim  here  turning  the  occasion  of 
this  question  to  good  account  and 
preaching  a  very  instructive  sermon 
in  connection  therewith,  but  does  he 
never  answer  the  question?  Does 
he  let  the  inquiry  go  by  the  board ; 
was  it  ever  to  remain  unanswered? 
Not  at  all.  You  will  find  that  he  has 
answered  that  question  very  fully. 
Turn  to  the  76th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  and  there  you 
have  it  in  full,  a  sermon  begun  in 
the  meridian  of  time,  carried  for- 
ward during  the  apostolic  age 
through  inspiration,  for  Paul 
preached  a  paragraph  of  it  when  he 
referred  to  the  bodies  celestial  and 
the  bodies  terrestrial,  one  compared 
to  the  glory  of  the  sun  and  another 
to  the  glory  of  the  moon,  and  then 
referred  to  other  bodies  which  are 
to  be  compared  in  glory  to  the  stars, 
though  Paul  had  not  learned  the 
name  of  that  third  kingdom  or  de- 
gree of  glory ;  and  then  the  sermon 
is  carried  forward  in  this  dispensa- 
tion, as  you  will  find  recorded  in  the 
section  referred  to.  Therein  the 
Lord  makes  plain-  the  fact  that  sal- 
vation as  we  call  it,  or  being  saved, 
has  a  relative  meaning.  That  sec- 
tion tells  us  of  the  awful  state  into 
which  shall  enter  the  sons  of  perdi- 
tion, those  who  have  sinned  against 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMA GE. 


143 


light  and  knowledge,  those  who 
have  been  instigators  of  the  shed- 
ding of  innocent  blood.  All  of  this 
is  pointed  out,  and  then  the  condi- 
tion of  those  who  attain  the  very 
lowest  or  least  of  the  so-called  king- 
'doms  of  glory  receives  attention. 
The  one  that  Paul  had  no  name  for 
we  have  learned  to  be  the  telestial 
glory;  and  we  are  definitely  told 
just  who  are  the  inhabitants  or  in- 
heritors of  the  telestial  glory.  The 
condition  of  those  who  attain  the 
next  higher  or  the  terrestrial  state 
is  plainly  set  forth  and  then  the  con- 
dition of  the  supremely  blessed, 
those  who  are  permitted  to  dwell 
with  the  Father  and  with  the  Son, 
the  Christ,  in  the  celestial  worlds 
throughout  eternity. 

Now,  those  who  are  saved  in  the 
telestial  glory  are  saved  from  the 
horrors  of  perdition ;  those  who  at- 
tain the  terrestrial  glory  are  saved 
from  the  lower  state,  in  the  teles- 
tial ;  and  those  who  attain  the  celes- 
tial are  saved  from  all  lesser  condi- 
tions and  the  lower  glories  of  the 
telestial  and  the  terrestrial.  Those 
Jews,  including  even  the  twelve 
apostles,  could  not  comprehend  that 
condition  of  affairs  and  therefore 
the  Christ  did  not  answer  the  ques- 
tion directly  but  let  it  go  with  a 
very  brief  and  incomplete  answer. 

I  say  aeain  this  is  one  of  the  ser- 
mons continued  through  the  ages  ; 
and  we  are  able  today  to  compre- 
hend the  meaning  of  salvation  in  a 
greater  measure  than  ever  before. 
Tn  this  respect  be  it  known  the  theo- 
logical world  is  following  the  lead 
r-f  "Mormonism"  so-called,  not  only 
;n  this  particular  but  in  many  others. 
"Mnrmonism."  that  svstem  of  re- 
vealed truth  which  constitutes  the 
charter  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-dav  Saints,  is  pio- 
neering the  way  and  going  before 


like  a  bearer  of  light ;  and  the  think- 
ers of  the  world  are  following  it  to- 
day, although  many  of  them  are 
loath  to  acknowledge  and  confess 
the  fact.  The  doctrine  of  a  single 
heaven  and  a  single  hell,  separated 
by  only  a  narrow  strip,  and  into  one 
or  the  other  of  which  every  soul 
shall  surely  go,  ofttimes  as  the  re- 
sult of  very  close  calculation  of  his 
account,  that  horrifying  doctrine 
has  been  practically  abandoned  by 
thinkers  generally,  by  the  theolog- 
ians at  the  present  time,  just  as  they 
have  abandoned  the  infamous  .doc- 
trine of  the  utter  condemnation  of 
babes  who  die  unbaptized.  It  was 
thought,  you  know,  but  a  short  time 
ago,  that  hell  was  figuratively  paved 
with  the  skulls  of  unbaptized  babes, 
that  babes  who  died  without  bap- 
tism were  'doomed  to  condemnation 
that  should  last  forever  and  forever. 
And  now  what  find  we?  That  doc- 
trine was  taught  by  an  apostate 
church.  It  was  proclaimed  as  the 
result  of  the  absence  of  light.  It 
was  preached  as  a  .dogma  of  men, 
not  a  doctrine  of  Christ.  But  today 
we  find  even  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  permitting  its  members  to 
believe  that  babes  who  die  without 
baptism  enter  into  a  state  of  rest 
though  they  are  denied  the  supreme 
bliss  of  beholding  the  face  of  God. 
or  as  thev  set  it  forth,  of  having  the 
beatific  vision  of  God — a  wonderful 
improvement.  I  hope  that  they  will 
come  to  the  whole  truth  some  day, 
pven  as  the  Lord  hath  declared  it  by 
his  own  word  ;  and  so  in  these  re- 
spects the  revealed  word  of  God  is 
leading-  and  "Mormonism"  is  pio- 
neering- the  way  for  the  modern 
theology. 

It  was  mv  privilege  but  a  few 
months  a°"0  in  addressing-  a  rather 
distinguished  bodv  constitutine  a 
philosophical    society,  comprising 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


professional  men  and  women,  to 
virtually  throw  down  the  challenge 
in  this  way  in  effect,  though  not  in 
these  words :  Tell  me  one  instance 
of  advancement  in  matters  theolog- 
ical since  1830  in  which  the 
churches  have  not  been  following 
''Mormon"  lead.  And  no  instance 
was  produced.  I  bear  my  testimony 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  all  its  name 
professes  to  be,  all  that  its  name 
affirms  it  to  be.  It  is  leading  the 
way,  it  is  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and 
we  find  the  sermons  of  the  earlier 
c'ays  carried  forward. 

"Lord,  are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  In  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times  the  words  of  the 
prophet  relating  to  what  was  shown 
are  thus  recorded.  "And  behold  and 
lo,  we  saw  the  glory  and  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  telestial  world,  that  they 
were  as  innumerable  as  the  stars  in 
the  firmament  of  heaven  or  as  the 
sand  on  the  seashore."  Herein  lies 
the  significance  of  the  Lord's  words 
to  those  who  asked  that  question. 
"Strive  to  enter  in  at  the  strait  gate 
for  many,  I  say  unto  you,  will  seek 
to  enter  in  and  shall  not  be  able 
when  once  the  master  of  the  house 
is  risen  up  and  hath  shut  to  the 
door." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
lay  hold  on  eternal  life  before  the 
door  is  shut.  This  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  solo  based  upon  the  91st  Psalm 
was  sung  by  Irene  Cummings. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

President  Wilson's  message  on  the 
Bible  to  American  soldiers — Some 
of  the  accomplishments  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  that  will  redound  to 
their  blessing  and  insure  them  life 
eternal — The  splendid  work  of  the 


Priesthood  and  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations— Security  and  safety  in  ob- 
serving the  laws  of  the  gospel  and 
the  counsels  of  the  servants  of  God 
— Our  hope  for  the  people  of  Zion. 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  have  never  heard  so  much 
scripture  quoted  to  such  good  pur- 
pose as  I  have  heard  from  our 
brethren  during  the  .sessions  of  this 
conference.  I  hope  that  their  ex- 
ample will  be  heeded  by  the  Saints 
and  that  scripture-reading  may  be- 
come a  more  prevalent  custom  than 
it  has'been  and  is  today.  I  note  that 
recently  twenty-seven  thousand 
copies  of  the  Bible  were,  by  one 
Bible  society,  placed  into  the  hands 
of  American  soldiers.  In  each  copy 
was  inscribed  a  short  letter  from  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  and 
the  sentiments  expressed  in  that  let- 
ter are  worthy  of  our  attention.  The 
letter  read : 

"The  Bible  is  the  word  of  life.  1 
beg  that  you  will  read  it  and  find  this 
out  for  yourselves.  Read  not  little 
snatches  here  and  there,  but  long  pas- 
sages that  will  really  be  the  road  to 
the  heart  of  it.  You  will  not  only  find 
it  full  of  real  men  and  women,  but 
also  of  things  you  have  wondered 
about  and  been  troubled  about  all 
your  life,  as  men  have  been  always, 
and  the  more  you  read  the  more  will 
become  plain  to  you  what  things  are 
worth  while  and  what  things  are  not, 
what  things  make  men  happy — loy- 
alty, right-dealing,  speaking  the  truth, 
readiness  to  give  everything  for  what 
they  think  their  duty^,  and  most  of  all 
the  wish  that  they  may  have  the  real 
approval  of  the  Christ,  who  gave 
everything  for  them,  and  what  things 
are  guaranteed  to  make  men  unhappy 
— selfishness,  cowardice,  greed,  and 
everything  that  is  mean  and  low. 

"When  you  have  read  the  Bible  you 
will  know  that  it  is  the  word  of  God, 
because  you  will  have  found  it  the 
key  to  your  own  heart,  your  own 
happiness  and  your  own  duty. 

"Woodrow  Wilson." 

T  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  1..  RICHARDS. 


145 


that  in  the  scriptures  are  to  be  found 
words,  counsel,  and  admonition  that 
are  suited  to  every  circumstance  and 
every  condition  of  life.  I  hope  that 
we  will  read  not  only  the  words  of 
the  Bible,  so  highly  commended  by 
the  President  of  the  United  States, 
but  that  we  will  read  the  words  that 
have  come  to  us  in  modern  revela- 
tion, and  the  words  of  the  prophets 
that  have  been  recorded  in  our  Book 
of  Mormon. 

I  desire  to  read  a  little  scripture 
myself  as  a  premise  to  the  few 
thoughts  that  I  would  advance  to 
you  at  this  time : 

"When  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come 
in  his  glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels 
with  him,  then  shall  he  sit  upon  the 
throne  of  his  glory: 

"And  before  him  shall  be  gathered 
all  nations:  and  he  shall  separate  them 
one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd  di- 
videth  his  sheep  from  the  goats: 

"And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his 
right  hand,  but  the  goats  o,n  the  left. 

"Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them 
on  his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed 
of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom 
prepared  for  you  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world: 

"For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye 
gave  me  meat:  T  was  thirsty,  and  ye 
gave  me  drink:  I  was  a  stranger  and 
ye  took  me  in : 

"Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me:  I  was 
sick,  and  ye  visited  me:  I  was  in 
prison,  and  ye  came  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  the  righteous  answer 
him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee 
an  hungred,  and  fed  thee,  or  thirsty, 
and  gave  thee  drink. 

"When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and 
took  thee  in?  or  naked,  and  clothed 
thee? 

"Or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in 
prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

"And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say 
unto  them,  Verily,  1  say  unto  you, 
Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye 
have  done  it  unto  me. 

"And  then  shall  he  say  also  unto 
th  em  on  the  left  hand,  Depart  from 
me,  ye  cursed,  into  everlasting  fire, 
prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels: 


"For  1  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave 
me  no  meat:  I  was  thirsty  and  ye 
gave  me  no  drink: 

"I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me 
not  in:  naked  and  ye  clothed  me  not: 
sick,  and  in  prison,  and  ye  visited  me 
not. 

"Then  shall  they  also  answer  him, 
saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee  an 
hungred,  or  athirst,  or  a  stranger,  or 
naked,  or  sick,  or  in  prison,'  and  did 
not  minister  unto  thee? 

"Then  shall  he  answer  them,  saying. 
Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  as 
ye  did  it  not  to  one  of  the  least  ,of 
these  ye  did  it  not  to  me. 

"And  these  shall  go  away  into  ever- 
lasting punishment:  but  the  righteous 
into  life  eternal." 

I  gather  much  of  encouragment 
and  comfort  from  that  scripture, 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Without 
boasting,  only  in  a  spirit  of  grateful 
acknowledgment,  I  would  recount  a 
few  of  the  accomplishments  of  our 
people  which,  it  seems  to  me,  will 
tend  to  lead  them  to  life  eternal  and 
to  the  blessings  which  our  Father 
has  in  store  for  those  who  have 
served  him  by  serving  his  children. 

We  have  among  us  organizations 
designed  to  minister  to  the  care  and 
the  comfort  and  the  upbuilding  of 
the  children  of  men.  Among  these 
organizations  there  is  one  com- 
posed of  women,  the  sisters  of  the 
Church.  That  organization  has  a 
record  of  which  any  people  in  the 
wide  world  could  be  most  proud. 
You  know  what  it  does.  I  want, 
however,  to  mention  a  few  items  ac- 
complished by  this  great  organiza- 
tion in  ministering  to  the  children 
of  men. 

During  the  last  year.  I  gather 
from  the  secretary's  report,  there 
were  21,985  days  spent  with  the 
sick,  more  than  sixty  years  of  one 
person's  time  devoted  gratuitously, 
willinging,  lovingly  and  unselfishly 
to  the  care  of  the  unfortunate. 
There  were  88,140  special  visits  to 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  sick  where  relief  was  adminis- 
tered, encouragment  given  and 
good  done  beyond  computation. 
Why,  don't  you  know  if  we  had  to 
pay  for  the  services  of  the  physi- 
cian at  the  usual  rate  it  would  have 
taken  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  mil- 
lion dollars  to  have  paid  for  the 
simple,  loving  service  devoted  by 
this  organization  to  the  relief  of  the 
sick  in  our  midst  last  year  only. 
There  were  6,803  families  that  .di- 
rectly received  the  help  of  this  be- 
neficent organization.  Two  thous- 
and one  hundred  and  ninety-three 
bodies  of  the  dead  were  prepared 
for  burial  without  cost,  without 
compensation  for  service,  as  a  mere 
gratuitous  offering  on  the  part  of 
these  good  sisters.  There  were 
spent  in  temple  work  26,201  days  in 
doing  vicarious  work  for  the  dead 
by  this  organization  alone.  Assist- 
ance was  given  to  missionaries  and 
their  families  to  the  extent  of 
$2,735.35  in  cash,  aside  from  the 
great  amount  of  assistance  that  was 
given  in  work  and  in  caring  f  or  the 
families  of  missionaries  that  in 
many  instances  needed  the  care  of 
these  ministering  angels. 

Our  sisters  have  done  that  which 
the  Lord  prescribed  as  one  of  the 
means  of  obtaining  enternal  life. 
They  have  ministered  unto  "these, 
the  least  of  my  brethren,"  they  have 
cared  for  those  who  were  sick  and 
afflicted  and  in  need  of  care. 

Then  the  other  organizations  of 
our  Church,  which  I  haven't  the 
time  or  opportunity  now  to  recount, 
have  likewise  administered  to  the 
health  and  succor  and  the  uplift  of 
all  the  children  of  God  that  have 
been  members  of  the  Church,  or  not 
being  members  of  the  Church,  who 
have  been  willing  to  accept  of  the'ir 
assistance.  Don't  you  know  that 
there  is  an  army  of  twenty  thousand 


Sunday  School  teachers  laboring 
every  Sunday  in  the  year,  preparing 
themselves  during  the  week  days, 
unselfishly  and  willingly  giving 
:heir  time  and  ability  to  feed  the 
children  of  God  the  bread  of  life 
and  help  them  to  imbibe  at 
the  fountain  of  truth,  that  they 
may  live  in  the  ways  of  God  and 
walk  in  his  righteous  paths  ?  There 
is  a  comparatively  large  number  of 
faithful  servants  devoting  them- 
selves to  the  care  of  the  young  men 
and  women  in  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  of  the  Church. 
In  addition  to  these  we  have  great 
numbers  of  men  and  women  unsel- 
fishly devoting  themselves  to  the 
work  pursued  in  our  Primary  As 
sociations  and  in  our  Religion 
Classes,  attempting  as  best  they  can 
to  administer  to  the  good  of  man- 
kind and  to  feed  them  in  the  way 
that  God  wants  them  fed  for  their 
upbuilding  and  for  their  proper 
growth  and  development. 

And  behind  and  above,  it  seems 
to  me,  all  of  the  work  that  these 
good  auxiliary  associations  are  ac- 
complishing are  to  be  found  the 
men  who  sit  in  the  fore  part  of 
this  building,  who,  for  years  and 
years  have  given  their  lives,  their 
service,  their  thought,  their  prayers 
to  the  nurture  and  the  care  of  these 
the  children  of  our  Father  who  is  in 
heaven.  These  presidencies  of 
stakes,  noble  men,  shepherds  of  the 
Father,  caring  for  his  flocks,  as 
only  the  loving  shepherd  can  care 
for  them.  These  bishoprics  of 
wards,  fathers  of  the  people,  caring 
for  them  as  only  loving  fathers  can 
care  for  their  children.  O,  what  a 
grand  and  noble  service  are  these 
men  performing-.  A.s  I  go  among 
them  in  the  ministry  in  which  I  am 
engaged,  as  I  meet  them  and  under- 
stand their  spirits  and  recognize 


ELDER  STEPHEN  I.  RICHARDS. 


147 


their  devotion  to  the  cause,  I  feel 
mighty  humble  in  their  presence. 
They  are  men  of  experience,  they 
are  men  of  wisdom,  they  are  men 
of  integrity,  they  are  men  of  a 
great  big  love  for  God's  children ; 
and  my  prayer  constantly  is  that  I 
may  be  worthy  to  work  with  them, 
worthy  to  help  them  in  the  great 
work  to  which  they  are  so  stead- 
fastly devoted.  These  are  the  men 
who  have  brought  forth  the  sons  of 
the  .states  that  have  now  responded 
to  their  country's  call.  These  men 
and  their  good  wives  are  the  men 
and  women  who  have  implanted 
within  the  hearts  of  these  boys, 
•standards  of  truth  and  virtue  and 
morality  that  will  make  them  stand 
out  prominently  among  all  those 
who  come  to  serve  this  great  nation. 
I  was  not  surorised  when  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Interior  stood  on  this 
stand  the  other  evening  and  said — 
and  I  believe  it  was  not  flatterv — 
that  in  all  the  demonstrations  that 
he  had  seen  in  this  country  his  heart 
was  never  so  touched  as  when  he 
saw  the  bovs  of  Utah  and  the  sur- 
rounding states  march  past  the  re- 
viewing- stand  clad  in  their  uni- 
forms, prepared  to  serve  their  coun- 
try and  respond  to  its  call.  T  was 
not  surprised,  because  I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  the  eminent  secretary  can 
sro  anv  place  in  this  wide  and  good 
land  and  find  as  manv  bovs  who 
have  within  their  hearts  the  love  of 
truth,  who  are  as  firmlv  and  stead- 
fnstlv  adherine  to  the  principels  of 
truth  and  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  and  who  hold  to  such  high 
standards  of  virtue  and  honor  and 
morality  as  these  same  boys.  I  be- 
lieve that  one  of  them,  if  he  will  re- 
main steadfast  and  true  to  the  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel,  is  and  will  be 
worth  a  half  dozen  of  any  who  are 


not  true,  who  are  not  worthy  sons 
of  God. 

These  men — these  men  here,  are 
responsible  for  them;  and  I  give 
my  honor  and  esteem  to  them  for 
the  splendid  and  great  work  that 
they  have  clone  and  are  doing  in  this 
land. 

We  all  seek  after  eternal  life.  It 
is  the  greatest  gift  that  God  can 
give  to  men.  We  pray  for  it;  we 
work  for  it ;  and  I  believe,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  do- 
ing the  things  that  will  bring  it  to 
us.  Our  lives  are  being  conformed 
to  the  life  of  the  Master.  There 
is  encouragment  wherever  one  goes 
in  the  land  of  the  Saints.  On  every 
hand  are  the  evidences,  the  indis- 
putable evidences  of  the  love  of 
men  for  God,  in  the  love  of  men  for 
men,  and  it  is  our  service  to  these 
children  of  men,  no  matter  how 
humble  they  are,  no  matter  how  in- 
significant in  the  world  they  may 
seem  to  be,  that  will  be  accepted  by 
God  as  our  service  for  him.  We 
can't  help  him.  He  is  beyond  any 
help  that  we  can  give  to  him,  but 
we  can  help  his  children ;  we  can 
work  for  them ;  we  can  love  them ; 
and  we  can  persuade  them  with  the 
help  of  God  to  live  good  lives  and 
to  come  nearer  to  him,  that  they 
may  eventually  come  back  into  his 
presence. 

That  is  our  work,  as  I  understand 
it.  That  is  the  mission  of  the 
Priesthood  of  God.  The  Priest- 
hood of  God  means  to  me  only  the 
right  to  serve,  in  the  name  of  God, 
God's  children,  and  he  who  serves 
God's  children  in  God's  name  is  do- 
ing the  greatest  service  for  the 
Master  that  can  be  done.  I  see  only 
success,  onlv  prosperity,  only  hap- 
piness ahead  for  the  people  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  if  they  will  but 
obey  the  commandments  that  have 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  given  to  them.  If  they  will 
but  listen  to  the  counsel  and  admon- 
ition that  come  from  our  head,  if 
they  will  follow  the  guide  of  the 
Priesthood,  I  know  they  will  be 
safe. 

And  do  you  know,  throughout 
all  these  troublesome  times,  when 
men  have  found  it  a  very  difficult 
thing  to  make  up  their  minds  re- 
garding the  important  matters  that 
have  come  before  us  since  the  dec- 
laration of  war,  I  have  always  car- 
ried in  my  own  soul  a  deep  feeling 
of  satisfaction  in  this  thought,  that 
every  man  who  will  live  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  will  receive  in- 
spiration telling  him  what  to  do  for 
himself,  and  the  additional  and  still 
greater  thought  that  if  ever  there 
should  be  required  for  this  people 
any  especial  direction,  any  peculiar 
guidance  suited  to  the  condition  of 
the  times,  we  have  the  man  of  God 
to  give  it  to  us,  and  I  have  felt  in 
that,  security  and  safety?  I  think 
we  are  entitled  to  that  feeling  as 
a  reward  for  our  attempt  to  do 
Gods'  bidding  and  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

Only  a  few  weeks  ago  I  hap- 
pened to  stand  in  the  majestic  cor- 
ridor of  the  great  city  hall  of  San 
Francisco,  a  gigantic,  beautiful 
building  erected  upon  the  ruins,  or 
near  the  ruins  of  the  former  build- 
ing that  stood  there.  I  read  an  in- 
spiring inscription  carved  in  solid 
granite,  testifying  to  the  great  hope 
within  that  people  for  the  future 
of  their  city.  If  I  may  paraphrase 
that  inscription  it  will  express,  in 
some  degree,  my  hope  for  the  peo- 
ple of  Zion : 

"O,  Zion,  thou  glorious  city  of 
our  God  and  our  hearts,  thou  who 
hast  been  tried  and  not  found  want- 
ing; go  thou  forth  to  thy  glorious 
future,"  Amen, 


Anthony  C.  Lund  and  the  Taber- 
nacle choir  sang  a  solo  and  chorus : 
"The  Lord  hath  brought  again 
Zion,"  the  music  by  Arthur  Shep- 
herd, a  Utah  composer. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

SHALL  THE  CHURCH  PURCHASE  LIB- 
ERTY BONDS? 

I  have  a  matter  that  I  desire  to 
present  to  the  conference,  as  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
When  the  subject  of  Liberty  Bonds 
was  broached  and  presented  to  the 
people,  a  number  of  my  brethren 
submitted  to  me  their  views  and 
their  desires  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
as  ,such,  should  contribute  some 
means  in  aid  of  our  Government, 
in  the  purchase  of  these  bonds  with 
the  tithes  of  the  people.  As 
Trustee-in-Trust,  not  a  dollar  of 
the  tithings  of  the  people  has  ever 
been  diverted  out  of  the  regular 
channels  of  the  Church,  by  myself ; 
and  the  funds  have  been  expended 
by  the  common  consent  of  my  coun- 
selors and  of  the  Twelve,  and  as  a 
general  thing  also  that  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric.  I  did  not  feel 
that  I  had  the  authority  or  the  right 
to  divert  fhe  general  funds  of  the 
Church  from  the  usual  channels  in 
which  all  have  agreed,  and  all  have 
consented  for  it  to  be  used,  without 
submitting  it  to  the  general  confer- 
ence of  the  Church.  Therefore,  the 
Question  that  I  wish  to  present  to 
the  conference  is :  Will  this  Con- 
ference, this  General  Conference, 
authorize  the  Trustee-in-Trust  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  use  a  certain 
amount  of  the  funds  of  the  Church 
for  the  purchase  of  Liberty  Bonds? 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


149 


And  in  order  that  the  matter  may 
be  brought  a  little  more  clearly  and 
extensively  to  the  attention  of  the 
conference,  I  will  ask  President 
Lund  to  express  himself  on  the  sub- 
ject. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

A    MOTION    TO    PURCHASE  LIBERTY 
BONDS. 

This  does  not  mean  a  donation, 
but  simply  that  we  buy  bonds  and 
thereby  help  our  Government.  I 
think  that  everybody  present  feels 
that  we  must  do  everything  we  can 
to  sustain  the  Government,  as  we 
have  declared  that  we  are  willing 
to  do.  We  cannot  shirk  the  duties 
that  devolve  upon  us  as  citizens  of 
this  State  and  this  Nation.  We 
want  to  sustain  the  Nation,  to  sus- 
tain the  Government,  in  the  pur- 
suit of  obtaining  a  victory  for  the 
right ;  and  I  move  that  we  authorize 
the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  negotiate 
for  such  an  amount  of  these  bonds 
as  he  shall  find  that  the  means  of 
the  Church  can  stand,  not  to  exceed 
a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars. 

PREST.  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

SECONDING     THE     MOTION    TO  PUR- 
CHASE LIBERTY  BOND,S. 

I  arise  to  second  the  motion  pre- 
sented by  President  Lund.  Per- 
haps you  did  not  all  hear  it  dis- 
tinctly. The  resolution  is  that  this 
Conference,  representing  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  authorize  the  Trustee-in- 
Trust  to  negotiate  for  the  purchase 
of  Liberty  Bonds,  in  aid  of  our 
great  Nation  and  Government  to 
defend  the  principles  of  constitu- 
tional liberty,  and  to  wage  a  war 
of  defense  against  oppression  and 


tyranny  in  all  the  world,  for  the 
purpose  of  aiding  in  spreading  light 
and  truth  and  freedom  to  all  na- 
tions, and  that  the  President  of  the 
Church,  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  be 
authorized  to  enter  into  this  nego- 
tiation for  the  purchase  of  honds 
as  circumstances  will  permit,  and 
not  to  exceed  the  sum  of  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty  thousand  dollars.  I 
second  the  motion  with  great  pleas- 
ure, believing  that  it  will  be  for  the 
right,  and  that  it  will  be  supported 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
true  in  the  faith,  everywhere. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

UNANIMOUS     VOTE     TO  PURCHASE 
LIBERTY  BONDS. 

Brethren  and  sisters:  You  have 
heard  the  motion  which  has  been 
seconded.  Are  you  ready  for  the 
question.  (Voices:  "Question.")  I 
hope  that  eveiry  Latter-day  Saint 
will  feel  his  own  right  and  freedom 
to  vote  as  he  feels  would  be  right 
before  the  Lord.  All  in  favor  of 
the  motion  will  signify  it  by  raising 
the  right  hand.  (  Apparently  unan- 
imous response.)  The  contrary- 
minded,  by  the  same  sign.  (No 
response.)  The  vote  seems  to  be 
uanimous,  as  I  have  not  perceived  a 
single  hand  raised  in  opposition. 

Under  the  circumstances,  and 
with  the  sanction  and  approval  of 
this  vast  body  of  the  Priesthood, 
and  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  we,  your  brethren,  entrusted 
with  the  care  of  the  funds  of  the 
Church,  will  use  them  as  economic- 
ally and  wisely  as  we  know  how,  by 
the  help  of  the  Lord. 

We  will  now  have  presented  be- 
fore us  the  general  authorities  of 
the  Church. 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


President  Heber  J.  Grant  pre- 
sented the  names  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  which 
were  unanimously  voted  upon  by 
the  great  assembly,  as  follows : 

AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator  and  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles :  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hy- 
rum  M.  Smith,  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson 
F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay,  An- 
thony W.  Ivins,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Jr.,  James  E.  Talmage  and  Stephen 
L.  Richards. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and 
Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enty: Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kim- 
ball. Rulon  S.  Wells.  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and 
Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Orrin  P.  Miller  and 
David  A.  Smith  as  his  First  and 
Second  Counselors. 

Toseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  body  of  religious 
worshipers  known  as  the  Church 
of  Tesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His- 


torian and  General  Church  Re- 
corder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
August  William  Lund,  Assistant 
Historians. 

As  members  of  the  General 
Church  Board  of  Education :  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Willard  Young,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  George  H.  Brimhall, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, Horace  H.  Cummings,  Orson 
F.  Whitney  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith. 

Arthur  Winter,  as  Secretary  and 
Treasurer  to  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  General 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools. 

Board  of  Examiners  for  Church 
Schools:  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
Chairman;  George  H.  Brimhall,  C. 
N.  Jensen  and  Guy  C.  Wilson. 

Auditing  Committee :  William 
W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft  and 
Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C. 
Lund,  Conductor;  Horace  S.  En- 
sign and  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant 
Conductors;  John  J.  McClellan, 
Organist;  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organ- 
ists :  George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer;  and  all  the  Mem- 
bers. 

General  Board  of  Relief  Society : 
Emmelihe  B.  Wells,  President ; 
Clarissa  S.  Williams,  First  Coun- 
selor ;  Julina  L.  Smith,  Second 
Counselor ;  Amy  Brown  Lyman, 
Secretary ;  Susa  Young  Gates,  Cor- 
responding Secretary ;  Emma  A. 
Fmpey.  Treasurer ;  Lizzie  Thomas 
Edward,  Musical  Director ;  Edna 
H.  Corav,  Organist ;  Sarah  Jenne 
Cannon,  Romania  B.  Penrose,  Em- 
ilv  S.  Richard,s.  Julia  P.  M.  Farns- 
worth.  Phebe  Y.'Beatie,  Ida  S.  Du- 
senberry,  Carrie  S.  Thomas.  Pris- 


AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED. 


151 


cilia  P.  Jennings,  Elizabeth  S.  Wil- 
cox, Rebecca  N.  Nibley,  Elizabeth 
C.  McCune,  Edna  May  Davis, 
Sarah  M.  McClelland,  Elizabeth  C. 
Crismon,  Jeanette  A.  Hyde,  Sarah 
Eddington  and  Lillian  Cameron. 

General  Board  of  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union:  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Superintendent;  David  O. 
McKay,  First  Assistant  Superin- 
tendent; Stephen  L.  Richards,  Sec- 
ond Assistant  Superintendent ; 
George  D.  Pyper,  Secretary ;  John 
F.  Bennett,  Treasurer ;  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  John  M.  Mills,  Seymour 

B.  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
E.  Talmage,  George  M.  Cannon, 
Horace  H.  Cummings,  Josiah  Bur- 
rows, William  A.  Morton,  Horace 
S.  Ensign,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  Har- 
old G.  Reynolds,  Charles  B.  Felt, 
George  H.  Wallace,  Howard  R. 
Driggs,  Nathan  T.  Porter,  Milton 
Bennion,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Ed- 
win G.  Woolley,  Jr.,  Hyrum  G. 
Smith,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Joseph 
Ballantyne,  J.  Leo  Fairbanks,  J.  W. 
Walker,  E.  G.  Gowans,  E.  Conway 
Ashton,  Adam  S.  Bennion,  Edward 
P.  Kimball  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

General  Board  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association : 
loseph  F.  Smith,  Superintendent ; 
Heber  J.  Grant  and  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Assistant  Superintendents ; 
Moroni  Snow,  Secretary ;  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells,  George 
H.  Brimhall,  Edward  H.  Anderson, 
Thomas  Hull,  Willard  Done,  LeRoi 

C.  Snow,  Rudger  Clawson,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  Brigham  F. 
Grant,  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  Lewis  T.  Cannon,  Ben- 
iamin  Goddard,  George  Albert 
Smith,  Thomas  A.  Clawson.  Lv- 
man  R.  Martineau,  Charles  H. 
Hart.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  James  H. 


Anderson,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
George  F.  Richards,  Nephi  Ander- 
son, John  H.  Taylor,  Charles  W. 
Penrose,  James  E.  Talmage,  Hy- 
rum G.  Smith,  Henry  C.  Lund, 
George  J.  Cannon,  Nicholas  G. 
Morgan,  Claude  Richards,  John  F. 
Bowman,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Ros- 
coe  W.  Eardley,  Preston  D.  Rich- 
ards, Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe  and 
Brigham  S.  Young. 

General  Board  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  Association: 
Martha  Home  Tingey,  President ; 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor; 
Mae  Taylor  Nystrom,  Second 
Counselor;  Clarissa  A.  Beesley, 
Secretary ;  Joan  M.  Campbell,  Re- 
cording Secretary  ;  Alice  K.  Smith, 
Treasurer ;  Margaret  Summerhays 
and  Mabel  Cooper,  Music  Directors. 
Aids :  Maria  Young  Dougall, 
Adella  W.  Eardley,  Agnes  S. 
Campbell,  Ann  M.  Cannon,  May 
Booth  Talmage,  Emma  Goddard, 
Rose  W.  Bennett,  Julia  M.  Brixen, 
Augusta  W.  Grant,  Emily  Caldwell 
Adams,  Mary  E.  Connelly,  Elen 
Wallace,  Lucy  Woodruff  Smith, 
Jane  B.  Anderson,  Edith  R.  Lovesy, 
Laura  Bennion  Dimond,  Rachel 
Grant  Taylor,  Sarah  Richards  Can- 
non, Lucy  M.  S.  Carter,  Charlotte 
Stewart,  Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Em- 
ily H.  Higgs. 

General  Board  of  Primary  Asso- 
ciations:  Louie  B.  Felt,  President; 
Mav  Anderson,  First  Counselor ; 
Clara  W.  Beebe,  Second  Counselor  ; 
Francis  K.  Thomassen,  Secretary ; 
Genet  B.  Dee,  Treasurer ;  Ida  B. 
Smith,  Librarian ;  Isabella  S.  Ross 
and  Ann  Nebeker,  Physical  Direc- 
tors. Advisors  to  the  Board:  Hy- 
r.um  M.  Smith  and  Anthony  W. 
Tvins.  Aids:  Matilda  W.  Cahoon. 
Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Josephine  R.  West, 
Aurelia  Rogers,  Eliza  S.  Bennion, 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Edna  Marker  Thomas,  Laura  L. 
Foster,  Edith  Hunter  Lambert, 
Eleanor  R.  Jeremy,  Ella  S.  Capener, 
Georgina  F.  Richards,  Vilate  S. 
Chambers,  Helen  Davis,  Marion 
lielnap  Kerr,  Nellie  A.  Talmage, 
Cordia  H.  Smith. 

General  Board  of  Religion 
Classes:  Anthon  H.  Lund,  Super- 
intendent; Rudger  Clawson,  First 
Assistant  Superintendent ;  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  Second  Assistant  Super- 
intendent ;  Edwin  S.  Sheets,  Sec- 
retary ;  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin,  John  Henry  Evans,  William  A. 
Morton,  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  George 
Albert  Smith,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  James  E.  King, 
George  F.  Richards,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  George 
H.  Brimhall,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr., 
P.  J.  Jensen,  Willard  Young,  James 
E.  Talmage,  N.  Andrew  Jensen 
and  Guy  C.  Wilson. 

General  Board  of  the  Genealog- 
ical Society  of  Utah :  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  President ;  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, Vice-President ;  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  Secretary  and  Treas- 
urer ;  Joseph  Christensen,  Libra- 
rian ;  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Hyrum  G. 
Smith  and  Heber  J.  Grant. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  as  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

Each  and  all  named  were  sus- 
tained by  unanimous  vote  of  the 
people  in  the  position  designated. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

ADJOURNMENT. 

I  desire  to  thank  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  one  and  all,  for  your 
continued  presence  and  goodly  at- 


tention which  you  have  given  to 
that  which  has  been  said  and  done. 
I  also  desire  to  express  my  appre- 
ciation and  gratitude  to  the  Choir 
and  to  those  who  have  made  music 
for  us  during  the  conference.  I 
wish  to  extend  my  hearty  good  will 
and  best  wishes  to  all  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  throughout  the  world, 
and  to  all  people ;  for  our  mission 
is  to  save  the  world  from  the  errors 
of  men,  from  the  .darkness  of  super- 
stition and  ignorance,  and  to  bring 
them  to  the  light  of  Truth ;  that 
they  may  walk  in  the  light  as  God 
is  in  the  light;  that  they  may  have 
fellowship  with  him,  and  the  blood 
of  Jesus  Christ  cleanse  them  from 
all  sin. 

After  the  benediction,  this  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until 
next  April. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  Doxology. 

Benediction  was  .pronounced  by 
Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson. 

Conference  adjourned  for  .six 
months. 


Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted 
the  singing  in  the  Tabernacle. 
Prof.  John  J.  McClellan  played  the 
accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.,  on 
the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward 
P.  Kimball,  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Otter- 
strom,  assisted  by  Clyde  Rasmussen 
and  R.  W.  Gallacher  ;  and  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Bureau  of  In- 
formation, by  Elders  Frederick  E. 
Barker,  and  Fred  G.  Barker. 
Edward  H.  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


HISTORY  OF 
THE  CHURCH 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and 
Published  by  the  Church 

IN  SIX  VOLUMES 
COMPLETING  THE  FIRST  PERIOD 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  R.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the 
History  by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest 
possible  circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  Vol..  .$1.50  postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol.........  2.50 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol.  .....  2.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge^  per  Vol.  4.00 
llllll!ll!llll!llllllll!ll!lllllll!!lll!in!!H!!ll[H 

WRITE  FOR  COMPLETE  CATALOG  FREE 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,     -    SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


THREE  IMPORTANT 

NEW  BOOKS 

uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiinM^ 

The  Restoration  of  the  Gospel 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE,  with  an  intro- 
troduction  by  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  of  the  Twelve. 
Adopted  by  the  Priesthood  Outlines  Committee 
as  a  TEXT  BOOK  FOR  THE  PRIESTS' 
QUORUMS  the  year  1918. 
Bound  in  cloth,  75c  postpaid. 

TWO  BOOKS  THAT  EVERY  L.  D.  S. 
FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE 

The  L.  D.  S.  Family  and  Individual  Record,  for 

histories  of  families  and  individuals.   Price  $1.25. 

Family  Record  of  Temple  Work  for  the  Dead. 

$1.25  and  upward. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TEACHINGS 

This  book  contains  the  Prophet's  sermons  and  re- 
ligious doctrinal  writings,  gathered  from  the  six 
volumes  of  the  authorized  History  of  the  Church, 
and  arranged  accordiug  to  subject  in  alphabetical 
order.  Price,  75c  postpaid. 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiinnnoiiM 

WRITE  FOR  COMPLETE  CATALOG  FREE 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,    -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


