OniL  dCurwbuuL  Jhvd&swtlfL 

< 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

pnnffBfnpf 

> 

bUllrtntllut 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS                             ) 

- 

> 
Held  in  the  Tabernacle 

' 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah                                  j 

OdtoisA.  3  and.  If,  1%2 

> 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

■' 

I 

> 

' 

Published  by  the                                                                   < 

' 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

• 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah                                                      I. 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OP  AHBKICA 

• 

■..? 

FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE    PRESENT 

JhsL  (Book,  vfc  TJToimotL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  iour  different  bindings.  Oi  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition 50c— by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed $1.50 

Full  Morocco $3.50 

Jjwm.  fplowboy.  to  (p/wphaL 

AND 

WlaiheA.  StoJuMu  Jjufin.  JthsL  fiooL  ofc  Trio/ww/L 

By  .  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth. .$1.25 

JGuf.  to  Jhaotoqi^ 

By   PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price  $1.00 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Presented  in  6  volumes 

For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


THE  ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTEENTH  SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE  OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS 

CHRIST  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


The  One  Hundred  Thirteenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  3  and  4,  1942. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10  a.  m„  2  p.  m., 
and  7  p.m.,  Saturday,  and  at  10  a.m.  Sunday.  A  special  sacrament  and  testi- 
mony meeting  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at  12:30  p.m.,  Sunday. 

Admittance  to  all  the  meetings  of  the  Conference  was  by  special  invi- 
tation. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
proceedings  of  the  Saturday  morning  and  Sunday  morning  sessions  were 
broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  the  Saturday 
morning  and  afternoon  and  Sunday  morning  sessions.  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  and  President  David  O. 
McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  were  present  at  all 
the  sessions.  President  McKay  conducted  the  services  at  all  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH    PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A. 
Callis,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  and  Harold  B.  Lee. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:     Joseph  F.  Smith.* 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Marion  G.  Romney,  Thomas  E. 
McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  Richard  L. 
Evans,  and  Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 

Of  th.e  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

GENERAL,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS    PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

General  Officers  of  the  Church. 

General  Superintendences  of  Sunday  Schools  and  Y. M.M.I. A. 

Presidencies  of  Stakes. 

Former  Presidents  of  Stakes. 

Patriarchs  of  Stakes. 

Presidencies  of  High  Priests  Quorums. 

Presidencies  of  Seventies  Quorums. 

Presidencies  of  Elders  Quorums. 

'Joseph  F.  Smith  sustained  as  Patriarch  to  the  Church  at  this  Conference. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  3        .  First  Day 

Bishoprics  of  Wards 

Temple  Presidencies. 

Presidencies  of  Independent  Branches. 

Presidents  o[  Dependent  Branches 

Presidents  of  Stake  Missions. 

Mission  Presidents:  John  H.  Taylor,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City; 
William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  New  England  Mission;  Gustave  A.  Iverson,  East- 
ern States;  Leo  J.  Muir,  Northern  States;  George  F.  Richards,  Jr.,  North 
Central  States;  John  F.  Bowman,  Central  States;  W.  P.  Whitaker,  South- 
ern States;  William  L.  Warner,  Texas;  James  P.  Jensen,  East  Central 
States;  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  Western  States;  Elijah  Allen,  California;  Ger- 
man E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  California;  Desla  S.  Bennion,  Northwestern 
States;  David  A.  Smith,  Canada;  Walter  Miller,  Western  Canada;  Arwell 
L.  Pierce,  Mexico,  David  F.  Haymore,  Spanish-American. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Sat- 
urday morning  at  10  o'clock  a.m.,  October  3,  1942. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

In  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency  and  other  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  I  welcome  the  representatives  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  as- 
sembled in  this  opening  session  of  the  113th  Semi- Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that 
the  exigencies  of  war  make  it  necessary  again  to  limit  the  attendance  at  this 
gathering.  However,  if  a  general  invitation  had  been  given  there  would  be 
hundreds,  perhaps  thousands,  who  would  be  compelled  to  attend  overflow 
meetings,  as  every  seat  in  the  tabernacle  will  be  filled  by  those  who  have 
been  invited  to  this  Conference. 

I  am  sure  I  express  the  feelings  of  all  present  when  I  say  we  are  grati- 
fied to  have  with  us  President  Heber  J.  Grant;  and  all  will  be  thankful  and 
happy  to  know  that  he  is  even  stronger  in  every  way  than  he  was  six  months 
ago.  It  is  at  his  request  that  I  conduct  this  meeting. 

Others  of  the  General  Authorities  present  are  the  two  Counselors  in 
the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL,  the  meetings  of  this  con- 
ference are  being  broadcast.  It  will  be  necessary  therefore  for  the  informa- 
tion of  the  radio  audience  to  make  some  announcements  which  to  you  here 
assembled  may  seem  unnecessary. 

The  singing  this  morning  will  be  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  di- 
rector of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir.  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is 
at  the  organ. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives." 

Elder  Alfred  W.  Chambers,  President  of  the  Smithfield  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

At  the  request  of  President  McKay,  Elder.  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of 
the  Conference,  presented  for  the  information  of  the  Conference  the  fol- 
lowing report: 


Special  Appointments: 

J.  Leonard  Love,  Bishop  of  the  Yalecrest 
Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  appointed  chair- 
man of  the  new  Church  clothing  committee 
of  the  Church  Welfare  program. 

A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Secretary  of  the  Des- 
eret  Sunday  School  Union  general  board, 
appointed  manager  of  the  Deseret  Book 
Company. 

Wendell  J.  Ashton,  member  of  the  general 
board,  was  appointed  to  succeed  A.  Hamer 
Reiser  as  Secretary  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  board. 

Mrs.  Helena  W.  Larson  appointed  as 
secretary  of  the  Y.  W.  M.  I.  A.  general 
board. 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

Eldred  L.  Waldron  appointed  to  succeed 
Roscoe  C.  Cox  as  president  of  the  Hawaiian 
Mission. 

James  L.  Barker  appointed  to  succeed 
Frederick  S.  Williams  as  president  of  the 
Argentine  Mission. 

Elijah  Allen  appointed  to  succeed  Henry 
H.  Blood,  deceased,  as  president  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Bishop  Arwell  Lee  Pierce,  El  Paso  Ward, 
Mt.  Graham  Stake,  appointed  to  succeed 
A.  Lorenzo  Anderson  as  president  of  the 
Mexican  Mission. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

Humboldt  Stake  was  organized  May  31, 
1942,  from  wards  and  branches  in  the  Reno, 
Nevada,  and  Mt.  Ogden  stakes,  and  con- 
sists of  the  Winnemucca  Ward,  Reno  Stake; 
Carlin,  Elko,  Metropolis,  and  Wells  wards, 
Nevada  Stake;  and  the  Montello  Independ- 
ent Branch,  Mt.  Ogden  Stake. 

Mt.  Jordan  Stake  was  organized  May  3, 
1942,  by  a  division  of  the  East  Jordan 
Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Crescent,  Draper 
First,  Draper  Second,  Granite,  Sandy  First, 
Sandy  Second,  and  Sandy  Third  wards. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Samuel  Polloch  chosen  president  of  the 


Panguitch  Stake  to  succeed  President  James 
L.  Hatch. 

James  M.  Smith  chosen  president  of  the 
St.  Joseph  Stake  to  succeed  Jesse  A.  Udall. 

Luther  L.  Fife  chosen  president  of  the 
Weiser  Stake  to  succeed  President  Scott  B. 
Brown. 

Rodney  S.  Williams  chosen  president  of 
che  newly  organized  Humboldt  Stake. 

Stanley  A.  Rasmussen  chosen  president 
of  the  newly  organized  Mt.  Jordan  Stake. 

Moses  Campbell  Taylor  chosen  president 
of  the  South  Summit  Stake  to  succeed  H. 
Fred  Egan. 

George  F.  Christensen  chosen  president 
of  the  Nebo  Stake  to  succeed  Wayland  R. 
Wightman. 

Edward  E.  Drury,  Jr.,  chosen  president 
of  the  Denver  Stake  to  succeed  Douglas 
M.  Todd,  Jr. 

Willard  L.  Smith  chosen  president  of  the 
Alberta  Stake  to  succeed  Edward  J.  Wood. 

Ivan  Call  chosen  president  of  the  Nevada 
Stake  to  succeed  Fred  C.  Horlacher. 

James  D.  Hoggan  chosen  president  of 
the  Burley  Stake  to  succeed  President  Rob- 
ert O.  Hatch. 

Howard  S.  Bennion  chosen  president  of 
the  New  York  Stake  to  succeed  President 
Harvey  Fletcher. 

J.  Melvin  Toone  chosen  president  of  the 
Minidoka  Stake  to  succeed  President  Rich- 
ard C.  May. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Mount  Fort  Ward,  Farr  West  Stake, 
formed  by  a  division  of  the  Ogden  Tenth 
Ward,  North  Weber  Stake. 

Capitol  Ward,  Phoenix  Stake,  formed  by 
a  division  of  the  Phoenix  Second  Ward. 

Lorin  Farr  Ward,  Ogden  Stake,  formed 
by  a  division  of  the  Ogden  Seventh  Ward. 

Rigby  Fourth  Ward,  Rigby  Stake,  formed 
by  a  division  of  the  Rigby  First  Ward. 

Rigby  Third  Ward,  Rigby  Stake,  formed 
by  a  division  of    the  Rigby  Second  Ward. 

Compton    Center    Ward,    Long    Beach 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Comp- 
ton  Ward. 

Cedar  Fifth  Ward,  Parowan  Stake, 
formed  by  a  division  of  the  Cedar  First 
Ward. 

Valley  View  Ward,  Big  Cottonwood 
Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Winder 
Ward. 

El  Monte  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed 
by  a  division  of  the  Baldwin  Park  and 
Rosemead  Wards. 

Pocatello  Eighth  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake, 
formed  by  a  division  of  the  Pocatello 
Fourth  Ward. 

Pocatello  Ninth  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake, 
formed  by  a  division  of  the  Pocatello  Fifth 
Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Payette  Ward,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly 
Payette  Branch. 

Pendleton  Ward,  Union  Stake,  formerly 
Pendleton   Branch. 

Napa  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  formerly 
Napa  Branch. 

Pittsburg  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  form- 
erly Pittsburg  Branch. 

New  Independent  Branches: 

Buckeye  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake. 
Dependent    Branches    Made    Independent 

Branches : 

Castleford  Branch,  Twin  Falls  Stake. 

Filer  Branch,  Twin  Falls  Stake. 

Wards  Transferred: 

Crescent,  Draper  First,  Draper  Second 
Granite,  Sandy  First,  Sandy  Second,  Sandy 
Third  Wards  transferred  from  East  Jordan 
Stake  to  the  newly  formed  Mt.  Jordan  Stake 

Winnemucca  Ward,  Reno  Stake,  trans- 
ferred to  the  newly  formed  Humboldt  Stake 

Carlin,     Elko,     Metropolis,     and     Wells 
Wards,  Nevada  Stake,  transferred  to  the 
newly  formed  Humboldt  Stake. 
Wards  Disorganized: 

Topaz  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake,  merged 
with  the  Lava  Hot  Springs  Ward. 


First  Day 

Lava  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake,  merged  witl 
the  Lava  Hot  Springs  Ward. 

Woodland  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake,  merged 
with  Downey  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Transferred: 

Montello  Branch,  Mt.  Ogden  Stake,  trans 

fered  to  the  newly  formed  Humboldt  Stake 
San  Rafael  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake, 

transferred  to  Northern  California  Mission 
lone   Branch,   Sacramento  Stake,   trans 

ferred  to  Northern  California  Mission. 

Bishops  Who  Have  Passed  Away  While  in 

the  Service: 

Bishop  Lorenzo  M.  Harris,  McCammon 
Ward,  Portneuf  Stake,  died  June  5,  1942, 
after  having  served  about  five  years. 

Bishop  Douglas  Hooper,  Smithfield  Third 
Ward,  Smithfield  Stake,  died  June  17,  1942. 
after  having  served  about  three  years. 

Bishop  Henry  Luthi,  Freedom  Ward,  Star 
Valley  Stake,  died  August  16,  1942,  after 
having  served  about  six  years. 

Obituaries: 

Mrs.  Edna  Harker  Thomas,  former  mem- 
ber of  the  general  board  of  the  Primary  As- 
sociation for  nearly  thirty  years,  died  April 
29,  1942. 

Henry  H.  Blood,  seventh  governor  of 
Utah,  president  of  the  California  Mission, 
former  bishop  of  the  Kaysville  Ward  and 
former  president  of  the  North  Davis  Stake, 
died  June  19,  1942. 

Kumen  Jones,  patriarch  and  former  bishop 
of  the  Bluff  Ward,  San  Juan  Stake,  died 
June  11,  1942. 

George  Bowles,  former  bishop  of  the  Bel- 
vedere Ward,  Grant  Stake,  patriarch  of  the 
Los  Angeles  Stake,  died  June  30,  1942. 

Mrs.  Annie  Wells  Cannon,  one  of  Utah's 
well  known  women,  Church  and  civic  leader 
and  one-time  member  of  the  National 
Women's  Relief  Society  general  board,  died 
September  2,  1942. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  SUSTAINED 

President  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  presented 
for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers  and 
General  Auxiliary  officers,  who  were  sustained  by  the  unanimous  vote  of 
the  congregation,  as  follows: 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

}.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  5 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill  v 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

Richard  R.  Lyman  Harold  B.  Lee 

PATRIARCH   TO   THE   CHURCH 

Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

ASSISTANTS  TO  THE   TWELVE 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

THE  FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH   HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF   EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L    Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER   OF    EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  3  First  Day 

SEMINARY  SUPERVISORS 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

TABERNACLE  ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  John  H.  Taylor 

Thomas  E.  McKay  LeGrand  Richards 

Clifford  E.  Young  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Alma  Sonne  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Mark  Austin  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

Sterling  H.  Nelson  J.  Frank  Ward 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Donna  D.  Sorensen,  Second  Counselor 

With  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


s 


MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY  7 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

With  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL   IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

With  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL   IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 

Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 

Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 

With  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Green  Hinckley,  Superintendent 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

With  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
presented  the  following  Message  of  the  First  Presidency: 

To  the  Saints  in  every  land  and  Our  Testimonies 
clime  we  send  our  love  and 
greetings  and  say  unto  you:  ^e  again  bear  you  our  testimony: 
May  the  Peace  of  Christ  which  that  God  lives  and  that  He 
passeth  human  understanding  enter  loves  those  who  keep  His  com- 
your  souls  and  be  and  abide  with  mandments  and  walk  in  His  ways; 
you  always.  During  the  coming  that  Christ,  His  Only  Begotten, 
winter,  may  the  Lord  in  His  wis-  came  to  earth  and  lived  His  mission 
dom,  give  food  to  the  hungry,  rai-  through,  that  He  was  crucified,  died, 
ment  to  the  unclothed,  heat  and  shel-  the  Lamb  of  God  sacrificed  for  the 
ter  to  those  who  are  cold;  may  His  sins  of  the  world,  and  after  three 
Spirit  bring  comfort  to  the  broken  days  came  forth  from  the  tomb,  a  re- 
hearts,  bind  up  the  aching  wounds,  surrected  being,  thereby  making  the 
heal  those  who  are  sick,  preserve  Atonement  which  brings  the  bless- 
from  plague  and  pestilence  those  ing  of  a  resurrection  to  all  God's 
who  are  victims  of  this  worldwide  children;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
holocaust.  prophet  of  God,  raised  up  to  usher 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  3 

in  this  the  last  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times,  and  to  bring  about 
the  restoration  of  the  fulness  of  the 
everlasting  gospel  and  the  Holy 
Priesthood  of  God,  lost  to  earth 
through  the  wickedness  of  men. 

We  bear  witness  that  this  is  the 
one  true  Church  of  the  Christ,  and 
that  except  through  it  and  the  fol- 
lowing of  the  teachings  and  com- 
mandments it  proclaims,  men  may 
not  reach  the  highest  exaltation  in 
the  eternities  to  come. 
■  We  say  unto  you  that  in  the  dark- 
est hours  of  these  days  of  dread, 
tumult,  and  woe,  the  Lord  is  near  to 
us,  that  He  mourns  over  the  iniqui- 
ties and  the  sorrows  of  His  children, 
that  He  would  lead  us  into  paths  of 
peace  if  we  would  but  follow  Him; 
that  He  holds  in  His  loving  hands, 
nurtured  by  His  boundless  mercy, 
every  one  who  lives  righteously,  and 
who  seeks  His  protection;  that  He 
listens  and  hearkens  to  those  who, 
having  pure  hearts  and  contrite 
spirits,  come  to  Him  with  prayers  of 
unshaking  faith.  He  stands  today 
ready  as  always  to  gather  us  in, 
"even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chick- 
ens under  her  wings,"  would  we  but 
yield  our  lives  in  righteous  service 
to  Him. 

Drink  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom 

HPhe  world  is  smitten,  nigh  unto 
death,  with  great  and  grievous 
tribulations,  following  the  commis- 
sion of  cardinal  sins. 

Over  the  earth,  and  it  seems  par- 
ticularly in  America,  the  demon 
drink  is  in  control.  Drunken  with 
strong  drink,  men  have  lost  their 
reason;  their  counsel  has  been  des- 
troyed; their  judgment  and  vision 
are  fled;  they  reel  forward  to  de- 
struction. 

Drink  brings  cruelty  into  the 
home;  it  walks  arm  in  arm  with 
poverty;   its  companions  are  disease 


First  Dai; 

and  plague;  it  puts  chastity  to  flight; 
it  knows  neither  honesty  nor  fair 
dealing;  it  is  a  total  stranger  to 
truth;  it  drowns  conscience;  it  is  the 
bodyguard  of  evil;  it  curses  all  who 
touch  it. 

Drink  has  brought  more  woe  and 
misery,  broken  more  hearts,  wrecked 
more  homes,  committed  more 
crimes,  filled  more  coffins,  than  all 
the  wars  the  world  has  suffered. 

Therefore,  we  thank  the  faithful 
Saints  for  their  observance  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  for  their  putting 
aside  of  drink.  The  Lord  is  pleased 
with  you.  You  have  been  a  bulwark 
of  strength  to  this  people  and  to  the 
world.  Your  influence  has  been  for 
righteousness.  The  Lord  will  not 
forget  your  good  works  when  you 
stand  before  Him  in  judgment.  He 
has  blessed  and  will  continue  to 
bless  you  with  the  blessings  He 
promised  to  those  who  obey  this 
divine  law  of  health.  We  invoke 
the  mercies  of  the  Lord  upon  you 
that  you  may  continue  strong  in 
spirit,  to  cast  off  temptation  and 
continue  teachers  to  the  youth  of 
Zion  by  word  and  deed. 

But  so  great  is  the  curse  of  drink 
that  we  should  not  be  held  guiltless 
did  we  not  call  upon  all  offending 
Saints  to  forsake  it  and  banish  it 
from  their  lives  forever. 

God  has  spoken  against  drink  in 
our  day,  and  has  given  to  this,  the 
Lord's  own  Church,  a  specific  reve- 
lation concerning  it,  as  a  word  of 
■wisdom  by  revelation — 

That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine 
or  strong  drink  among  you,  behold  it  is  not 
good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Fa- 
ther ... 

And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the 
belly,  but  for  the  washing  of  your  bodies. — 
(D.  6  C.  89:5,  7) 

This  declares  the  divine  wisdom.  It 
is  God's  law  of  health,  and  is  binding 
upon  each  and  every  one  of  us.  We 
cannot  escape  its  operation,   for  it  is 


MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


based  upon  eternal  truth.  Men  may 
agree  or  disagree  about  this  word  o£ 
the  Lord;  if  they  agree,  it  adds  noth- 
ing; if  they  disagree,  it  means  nothing. 
Beyond  His  word  we  cannot  reach, 
and  it  is  enough  for  every  Latter-day 
Saint,  willing  and  trying  to  follow 
divine  guidance. 

For  more  than  half  a  century  Presi- 
dent Grant  has  on  every  appropriate 
occasion  admonished  the  Saints  touch- 
ing their  obligation  to  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  He  has  told  them  what 
it  means  to  them  in  matters  of  health, 
quoting  the  words  of  the  Lord  there- 
on. He  has  pointed  out  that  treasures 
of  knowledge,  even  hidden  knowledge, 
would  come  to  those  who  lived  the  law. 
He  has,  over  and  over  again,  shown 
what  it  would  mean  financially  to 
every  member  who  would  keep  the 
law,  what  it  would  mean  financially  to 
our  people,  and  what  it  would  mean 
financially  to  a  nation.  He  has  told 
us  what  it  would  mean  in  ending  hu- 
man woes,  misery,  sorrow,  disease, 
crime,  and  death.  But  his  admonitions 
have  not  found  a  resting  place  in  all 
our  hearts. 

We,  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  now  solemnly  renew  all  these 
counsels,  we  repeat  all  these  admoni- 
tions, we  reinvoke  obedience  to  God's 
law  of  health  given  us  by  God  Him- 
self. 

We  repeat  here  the  directions  here- 
tofore given  by  President  Grant:  We 
ask  that  every  General  Authority, 
every  stake  and  ward  officer,  every  of- 
ficer of  Priesthood  quorums,  every  aux- 
iliary officer  in  ward,  stake,  or  general 
board,  every  president  of  mission, 
every  regular  or  stake  missionary,  in 
short,  every  officer  in  every  Church  or- 
ganization, strictly  to  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  from  this  moment  forward. 
If  any  feels  too  weak  to  do  this,  we 
must  ask  him  to  step  aside  for  some 
one  who  is  willing  and  able  so  to  do, 
for  there  are  thousands  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  willing  to  obey  the  com- 
mandments and  who  are  able  to  carry 
on  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

We  ask  all  Church  presiding  officers 
immediately  to  set  their  official  houses 
in  order. 


The  Lord  will  not  otherwise  fully 
prosper  us  in  our  service  in  His  cause, 
wherefore  we  shall  stand  accused  before 
Him  that  we  walked  not  in  the  lead 
of  His  flock  in  the  full  stature  of 
worthy,  righteous  example.  Further- 
more, we  make  a  like  call  upon  all 
these  officers  to  keep  also  the  law  of 
tithing,  to  live  the  law  of  strictest 
chastity,  and  to  observe  and  do  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 

That  in  these  dire  days,  we  may, 
each  in  his  own  place,  enjoy  the  abun- 
dant physical  blessings  of  the  righteous 
life,  we  call  upon  all  true  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  or  out  of  office,  to  keep  this 
law  of  health, — completely  to  give  up 
drink,  to  quit  using  tobacco,  which  all 
too  often  leads  to  drink,  to  abandon  hot 
drinks  and  the  use  of  harmful  drugs, 
and  otherwise  to  observe  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  We  urge  the  Saints  to  quit 
trifling  with  this  law  and  so  to  live  it 
that  we  may  claim  its  promises. 

Upon  you  parents,  laden  with  the 
divinely  imposed  responsibility  of  guid- 
ing pure,  eternal  spirits  through  the 
early  years  of  their  earth  existence,  we 
urge  a  faithful  performance  of  your 
sacred  duty,  to  teach  this  law  of  health 
to  your  children  both  by  precept  and 
example.  Of  a  surety  the  Lord  will  not 
hold  us  guiltless  if  we  fail  one  whit  in 
guarding,  protecting,  and  guiding  these 
innocent  and  precious  souls  on  their 
way  to  exaltation. 

Parents,  these  are  not  the  times  for 
weak  attempts  and  half  measures,  but 
for  the  full  strength  of  righteous,  pray- 
erful, God-fearing  effort  to  walk  our- 
selves, and  to  lead  our  children,  along 
the  paths  of  sobriety  and  chastity. 

How  great  are  the  blessings  prom- 
ised to  those  who  observe  the  law: 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and 
do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedience  to 
the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in 
their  navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones; 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures 
of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall 
walk  and  not  faint. 

And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise, 
that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  them, 
as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 
(D;©C.  89:18-21) 

When,  as  the  Lord  Himself  has  de- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

clared,  plague,  pestilence,  famine,  and 
death  shall  be  poured  out  upon  the  na- 
tions for  their  wickedness,  and  when 
these  shall  break  over  our  heads  and 
our  loved  ones  are  smitten  nigh  to 
death,  when  hearts  are  torn  and  the 
anguish  of  grief  almost  overwhelms 
us,  who  can  fathom  the  joy  or  measure 
the  blessing  of  that  father  and  mother 
who  can  stand  before  the  Lord  and 
say:  "We  have  kept  Thy  command- 
ments. We  and  ours  have  lived  Thy 
law.  Vouchsafe  Thy  promised  blessings 
unto  us.  We  remember  Thy  word,  'I, 
the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what 
I  say.'  Let  Thy  healing  power  rest 
upon  our  afflicted  ones  'that  the  de- 
stroying angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as 
the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay 
them.'  " 

As  with  a  person,  as  with  a  people, 
so  it  is  with  a  nation.  A  drunken  na- 
tion cannot  expect  that  God  will  with- 
hold His  judgments,  nor  ward  off  the 
ravages  of  the  destroyer.  A  drunken 
nation  is  a  seedbed  for  disaster — poli- 
tical, physical,  moral,  and  spiritual.  A 
drunken  nation  may  not,  even  in  its 
hours  of  direst  distress,  pray  to  God 
for  help,  with  that  simple  assurance 
and  unpolluted  faith  which  bring  aid 
and  comfort  to  those  who  abide  the 
law  of  sobriety  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments. 

Rulers  of  nations  may  not  suppose 
that  their  peoples  will  be  less  drunken 
than  are  they  themselves.  We  call 
upon  the  rulers  of  all  nations  to  show 
their  peoples  by  their  examples  how  to 
live  the  sober  and  virtuous  life.  We 
call  upon  them  to  bring  into  their  coun- 
sels, the  reenthroned  reason  of  un- 
drunken  minds.  Then  will  wisdom  and 
vision  return,  and  peace  will  leave  her 
hiding  place  to  bless  the  world.  We 
exhort  men  and  rulers  the  world  over 
to  learn  the  blessings  which  come  to 
those  who  live  God's  full  law  of 
health,  that  they  may,  under  His  hands 
and  by  His  power,  help  to  bring  salva- 
tion, temporal  and  spiritual,  to  the 
whole  human  race. 

Chastity 

I  Tpon  the  heels  of  the  demon  drink, 

tread  the  demons  of  unchastity — 

harlotry,    fornication,    adultery,   while 


First  Day 

murder  itself  Hurks  not  far  .behind.  From 
Adam  until  now,  God  has  commanded 
that  His  children  be  sexually  clean. 

Here  again  we  extend  gratitude  to 
our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  great  body 
of  the  Saints  who  have  kept  the  moral 
law.    To  the  Corinthians,  Paul  said: 

Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of 
God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in 
you? 

If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him 
shall  God  destroy:  for  the  temple  of  God  is 
holy,  which  temple  ye  are. —  ( I  Cor.  3:16-17; 
II  Cor.  6:16) 

And  again: 

What?  know  ye  not  that  your  body  is  the 
temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is  in  you, 
which  ye  have  of  God,  and  ye  are  not  your 
own?— (I  Cor.  6:19) 

You  who  have  observed  the  law  of 
chastity  have  kept  the  temples  of  God 
undefiled.  You  can  stand  unabashed 
before  the  Lord.  He  loves  you.  He 
will  bestow  honor  and  reward  upon 
you.  Every  overcoming  of  temptation 
brings  strength  and  glory  to  the  soul. 
May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  and 
prosper  you  in  all  your  works  of  right- 
eousness. 

But  some  of  us  have  forgotten  what 
the  Lord  has  said  about  these  sins. 
Some  of  us  have  failed  to  teach  our 
children  the  need  for  sexual  purity. 
Some  teachers  have  tried  to  lay  bare 
to  our  youth  the  mysteries  of  life,  and 
so  have  robbed  the  creative  act  of  all 
the  sanctity  with  which  from  the  begin- 
ning God  has  enshrouded  it.  These 
have  given  no  restraining  righteous 
principle  in  its  place.  So,  with  too 
many,  modesty  has  become  a  derided 
virtue,  and  the  sex  desire  has  been  de- 
graded to  the  level  of  hunger  and  thirst. 
From  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  until  now, 
sex  immorality,  with  its  attendant  evils 
of  drink  and  corruption,  has  brought 
low  the  mightiest  of  nations,  has  de- 
stroyed powerful  peoples,  has  reduced 
erring  man  almost  to  the  level  of  the 
beasts  of  the  field. 

That  we  may  be  reminded  of  the 
enormity  of  the  sin  of  unchastity,  it  is 
well  that  we  recall  some  of  the  things 
which  the  Lord  and  His  prophets  have 
said  concerning  it. 

One  of  the  ten  basic  principles  of 


MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


11 


Christian  society,  and  accepted  by  all 
worshipers  of  the  true  God,  came  to 
men  at  Sinai  when  God  wrote  with 
His  own  finger:  "Thou  shalt  not  com- 
mit adultery." 

By  the  laws  of  Moses,  adulterers 
were  stoned  to  death.  (Deut.  22:24) 
God  said  to  Israel:  "There  shall  be  no 
whore  of  the  daughters  of  Israel,  nor 
a  sodomite  of  the  sons  of  Israel." 
(Deut.  23:17)  When  God,  through 
Jeremiah,  chastened  Israel  for  apostasy, 
He  pictured  her  loathsomeness  by  call- 
ing her  a  harlot.  (Jeremiah  3)  Paul 
declared  to  the  Ephesians: 

For  this  ye  know,  that  no  whoremonger, 
nor  unclean  person  .  .  .  hath  any  inherit- 
ance in  the  kingdom  of  Christ  and  of  God. 
(Eph.  5:5) 

The  Revelator  declared  that  whore- 
mongers "shall  have  their  part  in  the 
lake  which  burneth  with  fire  and  brim- 
stone: which  is  the  second  death." 
(Rev.  21:8)  And  when  he  wished  to 
condemn  the  great  false  church  and  its 
iniquities  that  had  led  the  world  into 
apostasy  and  wickedness,  the  Revela- 
tor called  her  "Mystery,  Babylon  the 
Great,  the  Mother  of  Harlots  and 
Abominations  of  the  Earth."  (Rev. 
17:5)  Jacob,  teaching  the  Nephites, 
declared: 

Wo  unto  them  who  commit  whoredoms, 
for  they  shall  be  thrust  down  to  hell. — 
(2  Nephi  9:36) 

To  us  of  this  Church,  the  Lord  has 
declared  that  adulterers  should  not  be 
admitted  to  membership  (D.  &  C.  42: 
76 ) ;  that  adulterers  in  the  Church,  if 
unrepentant,  should  be  cast  out  (D.  & 
C.  42:75),  but  if  repentant  should  be 
permitted  to  remain  (D.  &  C.  42:74, 
42:25)  and,  He  said,  "By  this  ye 
may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his 
sins — behold,  he  will  confess  them  and 
forsake  them."— (D.  &  C.  58:43) 

In  the  great  revelation  on  the  three 
heavenly  glories,  the  Lord  said,  speak- 
ing of  those  who  will  inherit  the  lowest 
of  these,  or  the  telestial  glory: 

These  are  they  who  are  liars,  and  sorcer- 
ers, and  adulterers,  and  whoremongers,  and 
whosoever  loves  and  makes  a  lie. —  (D.  &  C. 
76:103) 

The  doctrine  of  this  Church  is  that 
sexual  sin — the  illicit  sexual  relations  of 


men  and  women — stands,  in  its  enormi- 
ty, next  to  murder. 

The  Lord  has  drawn  no  essential  dis- 
tinctions between  fornication,  adultery, 
and  harlotry  or  prostitution.  Each  has 
fallen  under  His  solemn  and  awful 
condemnation. 

You  youths  of  Zion,  you  cannot  as- 
sociate in  non-marital,  illicit  sex  rela- 
tionships, which  is  fornication,  and  es- 
cape the  punishments  and  the  judgments 
which  the  Lord  has  declared  against 
this  sin.  The  day  of  reckoning  will 
come  just  as  certainly  as  night  follows 
day.  They  who  would  palliate  this 
crime  and  say  that  such  indulgence  is 
but  a  sinless  gratification  of  a  normal 
desire,  like  appeasing  hunger  and  thirst, 
speak  fllthiness  with  their  lips.  Their 
counsel  leads  to  destruction;  their  wis- 
dom comes  from  the  Father  of  Lies. 

You  husbands  and  wives  who  have 
taken  on  solemn  obligations  of  chas- 
tity in  the  holy  temples  of  the  Lord 
and  who  violate  those  sacred  vows  by 
illicit  sexual  relations  with  others,  you 
not  only  commit  the  vile  and  loath- 
some sin  of  adultery,  but  you  break  the 
oath  you  yourselves  made  with  the 
Lord  Himself  before  you  went  to  the 
altar  for  your  sealing.  You  become 
subject  to  the  penalties  which  the  Lord 
has  prescribed  for  those  who  breach 
their  covenants  with  Him. 

Of  the  harlots  and  those  who  visit 
them,  God  speaks  in  terms  of  divine 
contempt.  They  are  they  who  have  bar- 
gained away  an  eternity  of  bliss  for  the 
momentary  pleasures  of  the  flesh. 

The  Lord  will  have  only  a  clean 
people.  He  has  said,  "I,  the  Lord,  will 
contend  with  Zion,  and  plead  with  her 
strong  ones,  and  chasten  her  until  she 
overcomes  and  is  clean  before  me."  (D. 
&  C.  90:36) 

But  they  who  sin  may  repent,  and, 
they  repenting,  God  will  forgive  them, 
for  the  Lord  has  said,  "Behold,  he  who 
has  repented  of  his  sins,  the  same  is 
forgiven,  and  I,  the  Lord,  remember 
them  no  more."    (D.  &  C.  58:42) 

By  virtue  of  the  authority  in  us 
vested  as  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  we  warn  our  people  who  are 
offending,  of  the  degradation,  the 
wickedness,  the  punishment  that  at- 
tend upon  unchastity;  we  urge  you  to 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

remember  the  blessings  which  flow 
from  the  living  of  the  clean  life;  we 
call  upon  you  to  keep,  day  in  and  day 
out,  the  way  of  strictest  chastity, 
through  which  only  can  God's  choice 
gifts  come  to  you  and  His  Spirit  abide 
with  you. 

How  glorious  is  he  who  lives  the 
chaste  life.  He  walks  unfearful  in  the 
full  glare  of  the  noonday  sun,  for  he  is 
without  moral  infirmity.  He  can  be 
reached  by  no  shafts  of  base  calumny, 
for  his  armor  is  without  flaw.  His 
virtue  cannot  be  challenged  by  any  just 
accuser,  for  he  lives  above  reproach. 
His  cheek  is  never  blotched  with 
shame,  for  he)  is  without  hidden  sin. 
He  is  honored  and  respected  by  all 
mankind,  for  he  is  beyond  their  censure. 
He  is  loved  by  the  Lord,  for  he  stands 
without  blemish.  The  exaltations  of 
eternities  await  his  coming. 

Parenthood 

Amongst  His  earliest  commands  to 
*"*  Adam  and  Eve,  the  Lord  said: 
"Multiply  and  replenish  the  earth."  He 
has  repeated  that  command  in  our  day. 
He  has  again  revealed  in  this,  the  last 
dispensation,  the  principle  of  the  eter- 
nity of  the  marriage  covenant.  He 
has  restored  to  earth  the  authority  for 
entering  into  that  covenant,  and  has 
declared  that  it  is  the  only  due  and 
proper  way  of  joining  husband  and 
wife,  and  the  only  means  by  which  the 
sacred  family  relationship  may  be  car- 
ried beyond  the  grave  and  through 
eternity.  He  has  declared  that  this 
eternal  relationship  may  be  created 
only  by  the  ordinances  which  are  ad- 
ministered in  the  holy  temples  of  the 
Lord,  and  therefore  that  His  people 
should  marry  only  in  His  temple  in  ac- 
cordance with  such  ordinances. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  that  it  is  the 
duty  of  every  husband  and  wife  to  obey 
the  command  given  to  Adam  to  multi- 
ply and  replenish  the  earth,  so  that  the 
legions  of  choice  spirits  waiting  for 
their  tabernacles  of  flesh  may  come 
here  and  move  forward  under  God's 
great  design  to  become  perfect  souls, 
for  without  these  fleshly  tabernacles 
they  cannot  progress  to  their  God- 
planned  destiny.  Thus,  every  husband 
and  wife  should  become  a  father  and 


First  Day 

mother  in  Israel  to  children  born  under 
the  holy,  eternal  covenant. 

By  bringing  these  choice  spirits  to 
earth,  each  father  and  each  mother  as- 
sume towards  the  tabernacled  spirit  and 
towards  the  Lord  Himself  by  having 
taken  advantage  of  the  opportunity  He 
offered,  an  obligation  of  the  most 
sacred  kind,  because  the  fate  of  that 
spirit  in  the  eternities  to  come,  the 
blessings  or  punishments  which  shall 
await  it  in  the  hereafter,  depend,  in 
great  part,  upon  the  care,  the  teachings, 
the  training  which  the  parents  shall 
give  to  that  spirit. 

No  parent  can  escape  that  obligation 
and  that  responsibility,  and  for  the 
proper  meeting  thereof,  the  Lord  will 
hold  us  to  a  strict  accountability.  No 
loftier  duty  than  this  can  be  assumed 
by  mortals. 

Motherhood  thus  becomes  a  holy 
calling,  a  sacred  dedication  for  carry- 
ing out  the  Lord's  plans,  a  consecra- 
tion of  devotion  to  the  uprearing  and 
fostering,  the  nurturing  in  body,  mind, 
and  spirit,  of  those  who  kept  their  first 
estate  and  who  come  to  this  earth  for 
their  second  estate  "to  see  if  they  will 
do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their 
God  shall  command  them."  (Abraham 
3:25)  To  lead  them  to  keep  their  sec- 
ond estate  is  the  work  of  motherhood, 
and  "they  who  keep  their  second  estate 
shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads 
for  ever  and  ever."    (op.  cit.) 

This  divine  service  of  motherhood 
can  be  rendered  only  by  mothers.  It 
may  not  be  passed  to  others.  Nurses 
cannot  do  it;  public  nurseries  cannot 
do  it;  hired  help  cannot  do  it — only 
mother,  aided  as  much  as  may  be  by 
the  loving  hands  of  father,  brothers, 
and  sisters,  can  give  the  full  needed 
measure  of  watchful  care. 

The  mother  who  entrusts  her  child 
to  the  care  of  others,  that  she  may  do 
non-motherly  work,  whether  for  gold, 
for  fame,  or  for  civic  service,  should 
remember  that  "a  child  left  to  himself 
bringeth  his  mother  to  shame."  (Prov. 
29:15)  In  our  day  the  Lord  has  said 
that  unless  parents  teach  their  children 
the  doctrines  of  the  Church  "the  sin  be 
upon  the  heads  of  the  parents."  (D.  & 
C.  68:25) 

Motherhood  is  near  to  divinity.    It 


MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


13 


is  the  highest,  holiest  service  to  be  as- 
sumed by  mankind.  It  places  her  who 
honors  its  holy  calling  and  service  next 
to  the  angels.  To  you  mothers  in  Israel 
we  say  God  bless  and  protect  you,  and 
give  you  the  strength  and  courage,  the 
faith  and  knowledge,  the  holy  love  and 
consecration  to  duty,  that  shall  enable 
you  to  fill  to  the  fullest  measure  the 
sacred  calling  which  is  yours.  To  you 
mothers  and  mothers-to-be  we  say :  Be 
chaste,  keep  pure,  live  righteously,  that 
your  posterity  to  the  last  generation 
may  call  you  blessed. 

Unity 

HPhe  Lord  has  said  to  His  Saints  in 
these  days: 

I  say  unto  you,  be  one;  and  if  ye  are  not 
one  ye  are  not  mine. —  (D.  &  C.  38:27) 

These  days  through  which  we  are 
now  passing  present  many  problems 
which  are  new  to  all  of  us  but  are  par- 
ticularly strange  to  the  younger  gen- 
eration— those  who  have  little  back- 
ground of  experience  and  whose 
knowledge  is  limited  and  immature.  In- 
fidelity, atheism,  unchastity,  intemper- 
ance, civil  corruption,  greed,  avarice, 
ambitiori— personal,  political,  national 
— are  more  powerful  today  than  at  any 
other  time  in  the  lives  of  us  now 
living.  They  are  pulling  and  thrusting 
us  almost  at  will  into  new  fields  of  ac- 
tion, new  lines  of  thought.  They  are 
shaking  the  faith,  undermining  the 
morals,  polluting  the  lives  of  the  peo- 
ple. They  have  thrown  many  so  far 
off  balance  in  all  of  their  activities, 
economic,  social,  political,  and  relig- 
ious, that  they  stand  in  real  danger  of 
falling.  Satan  is  making  war  against 
all  the  wisdom  that  has  come  to  men 
through  their  ages  of  experience.  He 
is  seeking  to  overturn  and  destroy  the 
very  foundations  upon  which  society, 
government,  and  religion  rest.  He  aims 
to  have  men  adopt  theories  and  prac- 
tices which  he  induced  their  forefa- 
thers, over  the  ages,  to  adopt  and  try, 
only  to  be  discarded  by  them  when 
found  unsound,  impractical,  and  ruin- 
ous. He  plans  to  destroy  liberty  and 
freedom — economic,  political,  and  re- 
ligious, and  to  set  up  in  place  thereof 
the    greatest,    most    widespread,    and 


most  complete  tyranny  that  has  ever 
oppressed  men.  He  is  working  under 
such  perfect  disguise  that  many  do  not 
recognize  either  him  or  his  methods 
There  is  no  crime  he  would  not  com- 
mit, no  debauchery  he  would  not  set 
up,  no  plague  he  would  not  send,  no 
heart  he  would  not  break,  no  life  he 
would  not  take,  no  soul  he  would  not 
destroy.  He  comes  as  a  thief  in  the 
night;  he  is  a  wolf  in  sheep's  clothing. 
Without  their  knowing  it,  the  people 
are  being  urged  down  paths  that  lead 
only  to  destruction.  Satan  never  be- 
fore had  so  firm  a  grip  on  this  genera- 
tion as  he  has  now. 

In  the  midst  of  this  welter  of  lying 
and  deception,  of  woe  and  misery,  of 
death  and  destruction,  of  violent  dis- 
order and  threatening  chaos,  the  only 
saving  forces  on  earth  are  the  eternal 
principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel  of 
Christ  and  the  rights  and  powers  of  the 
Priesthood  of  Almighty  God.  We  of 
this  Church  stand  as  the  sole  possessors 
of  these  mighty  forces  which  we  have 
for  our  own  blessing,  salvation,  and 
exaltation,  not  only,  but  also  we  hold 
them  in  trust  for  all  mankind,  those 
who  now  live,  those  who  are  dead  and 
gone,  and  those  to  be  born  in  the  fu- 
ture, that  they,  too,  all  of  them  who 
will  receive  and  obey  the  gospel,  may 
likewise  be  saved  and  exalted. 

Standing  thus,  we  have  the  loftiest, 
the  most  vital,  the  most  sacred  respon- 
sibility and  obligation  which  God  can 
bestow  upon  man — a  responsibility 
and  obligation  which  transcends  every 
other  that  can  come  to  us  and  for  the 
meeting  of  which  God  will  hold  us 
strictly  accountable.  To  this  high  call- 
ing we  must  dedicate  all  that  we  have, 
all  that  we  are,  and  all  that  we  may  be- 
come. No  lesser  consecration  than 
this  will  meet  the  full  measure  of  our 
divinely  imposed  duty. 

In  the  awesome  war  we  must  wage 
to  bring  righteousness  and  salvation  to 
men,  we  must  stand  shoulder  to  shoul- 
der and  go  forward  as  one.  To  this 
glorious  conflict  to  destroy  sin  and  set 
up  righteousness,  we  call  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church.  We  must  reinforce 
our  determinations,  renew  our  resolu- 
tions, retake  our  covenants,  to  serve 
God  and  to  keep  His  commandments. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

From  the  great  war  in  heaven  until 
now  the  armies  of  righteousness  have 
marched  under  one  banner.  They  have 
obeyed  Him  who  stands  at  the  head. 
They  have  not,  as  it  were,  been,  and 
we  may  not  be,  of  Paul,  of  Apollos,  of 
Cephas,  "some  of  John,  and  some  of 
Moses,  and  some  of  Elias,  and  some  of 
Esaias,  and  some  of  Isaiah,  and  some 
of  Enoch,"  for  all  these  inherit  not  the 
celestial  kingdom.  To  gain  the  celestial 
glory  we  must  receive  the  gospel,  and 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  the  proph- 
ets, and  the  everlasting  covenant.  (D. 
&  C.  76:100-101) 

The  Lord  has  Himself  organized  us 
for  this  great  conflict  against  unright- 
eousness, foreseen  from  before  the 
foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid.  He 
has  prescribed  the  rules  and  regula- 
tions for  our  government  while  in  this 
field  of  action.  He  has  placed  at  our 
head  His  mouthpiece  on  earth  and  has 
given  him  full  authority  to  direct  us  in 
this  conflict.  He  who  disobeys  or  dis- 
honors that  head  is  a  traitor  to  the 
Lord's  cause.  Unrepentant,  he  must  be 
cast  out  from  the  Lord's  people. 

•  We  who  serve  under  the  Lord's 
anointed,  must  serve  with  full  loyalty 
and  devotion.  We  must  heed  his  in- 
structions and  admonitions.  The  prin- 
ciples, the  ordinances,  the  rites  and 
ceremonies — few  as  they  are — may  not 
be  changed  by  any  of  us.  The  Lord 
casts  off  those  who  "transgress  His 
laws,  change  His  ordinances,  and  break 
His  everlasting  covenant." 

The  principles  of  the  gospel  are  all- 
embracing — they  are  everlasting,  un- 
changeable, ultimate  truth.  They  will 
fit  every  situation,  every  problem, 
every  contingency  that  may  arise  in 
the  life  of  man.  There  are  no  local 
problems,  no  peculiar  situations,  in 
ward  or  stake,  that  may  not  be  solved 
under  these  principles.  It  will  not  do 
for  any  Church  officer  or  member  to 
work  out  for  himself  a  different  course 
from  that  prescribed.  This  will  lead  to 
disorder,  and  the  Lord's  house  is  a  house 
of  order.  When  new  light  is  needed, 
or  further  instructions,  the  Lord  will 
make  them  known  through  His  ap- 
pointed representative.  What  we 
should  seek,  is  wisdom  to  apply  the  old 


First  Dag 

and  true  principles  to  new  situations. 
Let  us  not  suppose  that  man  has  re- 
cently changed  in  his  essential  quali- 
ties or  habits,  for  this  is  not  true;  all 
that  has  happened  today  is  that  some 
basic  passions  which,  through  the  gen- 
erations, mankind  had  brought  under 
control,  have  now  broken  loose  in 
something  of  their  primeval  strength. 
They  are  not  new  passions.  We  pos- 
sess the  principles  which  brought  them 
under  subjection  once;  these  principles 
were  given  to  man  in  the  very  begin- 
ning for  this  exact  purpose;  we  must 
now  apply  them  again  to  conquer  these 
same  old  foes  of  righteousness.  This 
is  not  a  new  world;  it  is  an  old  and  sin- 
ful world  again  returned,  and  now  once 
more  to  be  reconquered  and  rejuve- 
nated. 

We  must  cling  to  the  rigid  simplicity 
of  the  principles  Jesus  taught,  to  the 
strict  simplicity  or  the  ordinances  He 
has  established — neither  elegance  nor 
pomp,  nor  elaborate  ritual  and  cere- 
mony had  any  place  therein;  we  must 
keep  the  everlasting  covenant. 

Men  in  the  Armed  Service 

HPo  our  men  in  the  armed  service 
•*■  everywhere  we  send  our  greetings 
and  love.  We  repeat  our  message,  re- 
new our  admonitions,  rebestow  our 
blessings  recited  in  our  message  at  the 
conference  of  last  April.  We  pray  in 
a  prayer  which  daily  ascends  to  our 
Heavenly  Father,  that  you  will  live 
righteously,  that  you  will  be  preserved, 
that  God  will  hasten  the  working  out  of 
His  purposes  among  the  nations,  so 
that  peace  may  come  and  you  be  re- 
stored to  your  loved  ones,  as  clean  as 
the  day  on  which  you  left  them. 

Our  constant  prayer  is  that  He  will 
give  us  wisdom  to  help  you  in  your 
sacrificing  service  to  your  country. 

We  are  making  every  effort  that 
opens  to  us  to  aid  you.  Your  frequent 
shiftings  from  place  to  place,  made 
necessary  by  the  exigencies  of  your 
duties,  increase  our  difficulties  almost 
immeasurably.  But  we  shall  do  the 
best  we  can.  We  are  setting  up  a  spe- 
cial committee  whose  particular  duty 
and  function  it  shall  be  to  devise  and 


MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


15 


carry  out  means  of  keeping  in  touch 
with  you  men  in  the  service. 

Realizing  that  one  of  the  greatest 
blessings  that  can  come  to  you  is 
words  of  cheer  from  your  loved  ones  at 
home,  we  renew  and  make  urgent  our 
request  that  these  loved  ones  send  you 
frequent  letters.  No  parent  should  let 
a  week  go  by  without  a  letter  sent  to 
his  loved  ones  in  the  service.  Every 
wife  should  write  as  frequently,  and  so 
should  sweethearts.  Every  bishop 
either  himself  directly  or  through  one 
of  his  counselors,  should  write  at  least 
once  a  month  to  every  member  of  his 
ward  who  is  in  the  armed  service,  and 
so  should  every  presidency  of  a  Priest- 
hood quorum  with  a  member  in  the 
field.  This  is  little  enough  for  us  to  do 
for  those  prepared  to  sacrifice  all  at 
their  country's  behest. 

Under  our  direction,  you  brethren 
in  the  service  have  been  requested  to 
organize  Mutual  Improvement  groups 
in  your  camps,  so  that  both  your  rec- 
reational and  spiritual  needs  may  be 
served.  This  you  brethren  may  do 
wherever  you  go.  Let  your  organiza- 
tions be  set  up  after  counseling  to- 
gether and  by  mutual  consent.  In  your 
gatherings  you  can,  the  proper  Priest- 
hood officers  officiating,  administer  the 
sacrament.  You,  who  hold  the  proper 
authority,  can  administer  to  the  sick; 
you  can  teach  and  exhort  one  another 
to  works  of  righteousness.  You  can 
build  up  and  support,  one  in  the  other, 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  His 
atonement,  and  in  the  gospel,  and  this 
faith  will  hold  when  all  else  seems 
gone. 

We  are  prepared  to  send  you  Church 
books  and  pamphlets  as  you  may  need 
and  desire. 

We  wish  to  bring  to  you  every 
spiritual  comfort  and  consolation,  every 
encouragement,  every  upbuilding  in- 
fluence which  we  can  command.  We 
and  the  brethren  and  the  whole  Church 
pray  for  you  constantly.  And  again 
we  pray  here :  May  the  Lord  bless  and 
preserve  you  and  keep  you  clean. 

But  we  urge  you  to  remember  that 
your  righteousness  rests  between  you 
and  your  God.  Others  'may  exhort,  en- 
courage, and  support,  but  you  only  can 
win  the   victory    for   your    salvation, 


aided  always  by  the  love,  the  mercy, 
and  grace  of  your  Heavenly  Father, 
who  will  be  always  near  you  in  your 
righteous  life,  wherever  your  lot  may 
be  cast. 

Again  we  say,  God  bless  you. 

The  War 

Tl  7e  renew  the  statement  made  in  our 
"  *  message  of  the  last  April  confer- 
ence, that  obedient  to  the  direct  com- 
mand of  the  Lord  given  to  us  more 
than  a  hundred  years  ago  ( directing  us 
to  "renounce  war  and  proclaim  peace" 
— D.  &  C.  98:16)  the  Church  is  and 
must  be  against  war,  for  war  is  of 
Satan  and  this  Church  is  the  Church  of 
Christ,  who  taught  peace  and  righteous- 
ness and  brotherhood  of  man. 

As  those  chosen  and  ordained  to 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Savior's 
Church,  as  followers  of  the  lowly  Jesus 
trying  to  live  His  gospel  and  to  obey 
His  commandments,  we  must  call  upon 
the  leaders  of  nations  to  abandon  the 
fiendishly  inspired  slaughter  of  the 
manhood  of  the  world  now  carrying 
on  and  further  planned. 

We  condemn  the  outcome  which 
wicked  and  designing  men  are  now 
planning,  namely:  the  worldwide  es- 
tablishment and  perpetuation  of  some 
form  of  Communism  on  the  one  side, 
or  of  some  form  of  Nazism  or  Fascism 
on  the  other.  Each  of  these  systems 
destroys  liberty,  wipes  out  free  institu- 
tions, blots  out  free  agency,  stifles  free 
press  and  free  speech,  crushes  out  free- 
dom of  religion  and  conscience.  Free 
peoples  cannot  and  do  not  survive  un- 
der these  systems.  Free  peoples  the 
world  over  will  view  with  horror  the 
establishment  of  either  Communism  or 
Nazism  as  a  worldwide  system.  Each 
system  is  fostered  by  those  who  deny 
the  right  and  the  ability  of  the  common 
people  to  govern  themselves.  We  pro- 
claim that  the  common  people  have 
both  this  right  and  this  ability. 

We  renew  our  declaration  that  in- 
ternational disputes  can  and  should  be 
settled  by  peaceful  means.  This  is  the 
way  of  the  Lord. 

We  call  upon  the  statesmen  of  the 
world  to  assume  their  rightful  control 
of  the  affairs  of  nations  and  to  bring 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

this  war  to  an  end,  honorable  and  just 
to  all.  Animated  and  led  by  the  spirit 
of  Christ,  they  can  do  it.  The  weeping 
mothers,  the  distraught  and  impover- 
ished wives,  the  fatherless  children  of 
the  world,  demand  that  this  be  done. 
In  this  way  only  will  enduring  peace 
come;  it  will  never  be  imposed  by 
armed  force.  Hate-driven  militarists 
and  leaders,  with  murder  in  their  hearts, 
will,  if  they  go  through  to  the  end, 
bring  merely  another  peace  that  will  be 
but  the  beginning  of  another  war. 

We  call  upon  the  Saints  the  world 
over  to  pray  to  God  constantly  in  faith, 
nothing  doubting,  that  He  will  bring 
His  purposes  speedily  to  pass  and  re- 
store peace  again  to  the  earth  to  bless 
His  children. 

To  the  Officers  and  Members 
of  the  Church 

\17e  pour  out  our  thanks  to  our 
""  Heavenly  Father  for  the  faithful- 
ness and  devotion  of  the  great  body  of 
the  Church,  without  which  the  work 
of  the  Lord  would  languish.  To  the 
faithful  members  we  extend  our  deep 
and  sincere  gratitude  for  their  loyal 
support  to  their  ward  and  stake  officers 
and  to  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  Except  for  this  also,  the 
growth  and  stability  of  the  Church 
would  suffer. 

For  the  faith  of  the  Saints  as  shown 
in  the  payment  of  their  tithes  and  offer- 
ings we  thank  the  Lord.  We  renew 
to  them  the  promise,  so  graphically 
pronounced  by  Malachi  to  ancient  Is- 
rael, that  for  their  faithfulness  the  Lord 
will  open  the  windows  of  Heaven  and 
pour  out  His  blessings  upon  them. 

We  are  grateful  likewise  for  the 
willing  and  effective  response  of  the 
people  to  the  Welfare  Plan.  We  call 
attention  to  the  repeated  official  warn- 
ings which  say  that  we  face  the  urgent 
likelihood  of  a  shortage  in  many  of 
the  necessities  of  life.  We  point  out 
that  the  very  purpose  of  the  Welfare 
Plan  is  to  help  the  people  in  such  cir- 
cumstances. We  again  urge  that  they 
wholeheartedly  support  and  work  out 
this  plan  in  its  full  measure. 

We  thank  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  for  their  increased  activity  and 
devotion.      The   carrying    forward   of 


First  Day 

the  Lord's  work  rests  upon  their 
shoulders.  We  say  to  you  brethren, 
bearers  of  God's  Holy  Priesthood,  duly 
ordained  to  your  high  and  holy  calling 
by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  holding  His 
authority  thereto,  be  faithful  to  the 
divine  agency  that  has  been  bestowed 
upon  you,  magnify  your  offices,  seek 
for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

To  the  auxiliaries  we  are  grateful  for 
the  work  of  each  in  the  sphere  as- 
signed to  it.  You  represent  the  First 
Presidency  in  the  labor  assigned  to 
you.  Seek  earnestly  to  carry  out  not 
only  the  letter  but  the  spirit  of  the  in- 
structions from  time  to  time  issued  to 
you;  to  do  otherwise  will  bring  trouble 
and  a  lessening  of  the  good  you  are 
counted  upon  to  do. 

Again  we  thank  the  officers  of  stakes 
and  wards  for  their  devoted  service. 
The  Lord  will  give  them  manifold 
blessings  for  the  great  burdens  they 
carry  in  His  service. 

Lastly  we  give  to  our  brethren  and 
associates  of  the  General  Authorities, 
our  unstinted  love  and  gratitude  for 
their  loyal  devotion  to  the  cause  of  the 
Lord,  for  the  unfailing  assistance  they 
give  to  the  First  Presidency  in  carry- 
ing the  great  burdens  of  these  troublous 
times,  and  for  their  faith  and  the  right- 
eousness of  their  living. 

Upon  all  we  ask  the  Lord  to  bestow 
His  choicest  blessings. 

We  close  with  a  prayer : 

Our  Heavenly  Father: 

In  deep  humility  we  Thy  people, 
Israel  of  today,  come  to  Thy  throne 
pleading  for  Thy  grace  and  Thy  mercy. 
Forgive  what  Thou  hast  seen  amiss  in 
us,  overlook  our  waywardness,  keep 
not  in  mind  our  lightmindedness  and 
our  forgetfulness  of  our  debt  to  Thee 
for  all  we  have  and  are,  but  hold  in 
memory  our  desire  to  serve  Thee  and 
to  keep  Thy  commandments,  and  in- 
crease these  to  us  from  day  to  day.  Let 
nothing  be  betwixt  us  and  Thee  at  this 
hour.  And  standing  thus,  our  Heaven- 
ly Father,  we  beseech  Thee  speedily  to 
work  out  Thy  purposes  in  the  earth. 
Bring  quickly  to  those  against  whom 
Thy  righteous  anger  has  gone  forth  be- 
cause of  their  iniquity,  a  sense  of  their 
sins  and  great  guilt,  and  plant  in  their 
hearts  a  will  to  repent  and  hereafter  to 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


17 


walk  in  Thy  paths,  guided  only  by  Thy 
commandments,  that,  Thy  purposes  ac- 
complished, peace,  Thy  peace  and  the 
peace  of  man,  may  return  to  bless  the 
earth. 

Stay  the  hands,  O  Father,  of  the  De- 
stroyer. Let  him  not  further  curse  the 
world  with  the  slaughter  of  Thy  chil- 
dren, nor  pour  out  upon  them  a  fuller 
measure  of  the  sore  afflictions  of/ fa- 
mine, plague,  and  pestilence.  We  know 
what  Thou  hast  decreed  against  a 
sinning  world,  but  we  humbly  bow  at 
Thy  throne  and  with  our  whole  hearts 
we  pray  Thee  that,  as  seemeth  to  Thee 
well,  in  Thy  infinite  knowledge  and 
wisdom,  Thou  wilt  abate  Thy  right- 
eous indignation,  take  away  from  the 
full  measure  of  Thy  punishments,  has- 
ten the  carrying  out  of  Thy  purposes, 
shorten  these  days  of  world  tribulation. 

We  know  how  we,  Thy  children, 
have  erred,  we  know  how  we  have 
failed  to  live  the  lives  Thou  hast  marked 
out  for  us,  but  at  this  time,  O  Father, 
we  humbly  pray  that  Thou  wilt  close 


Thine  eyes  to  our  misdoings  and  recall 
not  our  frailties,  nor  withhold  forgive- 
ness for  our  transgressions,  but  grant 
us  this,  our  prayer  for  the  speedy  ful- 
filment of  Thy  purposes,  that  peace 
may  come,  that  the  cries  of  a  wailing 
world  may  no  longer  afflict  Thine  ears, 
and  that  Thy  people  may  again  go  for- 
ward in  their  work  of  spreading  Thy 
gospel  and  bringing  salvation  to  the 
honest  in  heart. 

Bless  the  needy,  the  sick,  the  world 
over;  make  easy  the  pains  of  the  in- 
nocent and  righteous  ones  who  have 
been  torn  by  war;  comfort  the  mothers, 
the  widows,  the  fatherless.  Be  merci- 
ful to  all  who  suffer  in  mind  or  body 
or  spirit. 

For  Thy  boundless  mercies  to  us  we 
are  humbly  grateful.  Lead  us  day  by 
day  so  to  live  as  to  be  more  worthy  of 
Thy  manifold  blessings,  without  which 
we  should  perish. 

Grant  us  these  blessings,  O  Father, 
for  we  ask  them  humbly  in  the  name 
of  Thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith  whom  you  sustained 
this  morning  as  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  listening  in  on  the  air  and  for  our  further  in- 
formation I  will  repeat  Elder  Smith  is  the  son  of  the  late  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
therefore  the  grandson  of  the  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  a  great 
grandson  of  Hyrum  Smith,  the  Patriarch.  Elder  Smith's  right  to  this  office 
therefore  is  not  only  by  lineage,  but  by  direct  inspiration  to  the  President 
who  holds  the  keys  of  this  high  Priesthood. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives. 
Once  in  January  of  this  year, 
and  again  in  April,  I  lay  in  the 
valley  of  the  shadow  of  death.  I  re- 
turned therefrom  only  by  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  and  the  faith  of 
those  who  love  me.  Let  sophists 
scoff — let  worldly  learned  men 
rationalize :  I  know — as  I  know  that 
I  stand  here — that  I  am  alive  this  day 


by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  and 
by  the  faith  of  my  loved  ones. 

Many  nights  have  I  lain  and 
pondered  the  Lord's  goodness  to  me 
— goodness  which  I  must  confess 
seemed  all  too  unmerited.  There  are 
no  words  for  me  to  tell  you  what 
went  on  in  my  heart  this  day  as  I  saw 
this  great  body  of  men  holding  the 
holy  Priesthood  sustain  me  in  the 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,   October  3 

calling  to  which  the  Prophet  of  God 
has  summoned  me. 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives. 
I  know  that  Heber  }.  Grant  is  His 
chosen  and  properly  -  ordained 
mouthpiece  upon  earth.  God  grant 
that  we  as  a  body  of  Priesthood,  that 
our  families,  that  our  brethren  and 
sisters  who  are  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  may  have  the  wisdom  and  the 
strength  to  hew  closely  to  the  words 


First  Day 

which  have  issued  and  which  shall 
issue  from  the  constituted  authority 
of  the  Church.  Only  by  so  doing 
will  we  have  the  strength  to  face  the 
trials  that  are  to  come.  The  hearts 
of  the  strongest  may  quail.  Obedi- 
ence to  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  the 
only  thing  which  will  fortify  us  in 
the  days  to  come. 

God  grant  that  we  may  be  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


The  congregation  arose  and  sang,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
A  Prophet." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First,  I  wish  to  endorse  all  that  has 
taken  place  and  all  that  we  have 
heard  this  morning. 

We  have  here  assembled  in  this  im- 
portant historic  building  the  leading 
men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  who  have 
been  called  to  great  responsibility. 
Never  before  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  has  the  responsibility  which 
has  been  given  to  the  Priesthood  been 
more  necessary  of  fulfilment  than  to- 
day. Never  before  have  we  been  un- 
der greater  obligation  to  serve  the  Lord 
and  keep  His  commandments,  and 
magnify  the  callings  which  have  been 
assigned  to  us. 

The  world  today  is  torn  asunder. 
Evil  is  rampant  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  The  members  of  the  Church 
need  to  be  humble  and  prayerful  and 
diligent.  We  who  have  been  called  to 
these  positions  in  the  Priesthood  have 
that  responsibility  upon  our  shoulders 
to  teach  and  direct  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  righteousness.  I  would  like 
to  read  the  words  of  John  as  found  in 
the  third  chapter  of  the  First  Epistle 
of  John: 

Behold  what  manner  of  love  the  Father 
hath  bestowed  upon  us  that  we  should  be 
called  the  sons  of  God.  Therefore,  the 
world  knoweth  us  not,  because  it  knoweth 
Him  not.  Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  but  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we 
shall  be,  but  we  know  that  when  He  shall 


appear  we  shall  be  like  Him,  for  we  shall 
see  Him  as  He  is,  and  every  man  that  hath 
this  hope  in  Him  purifieth  himself  even  as 
He  is  pure. 

John  was  speaking  to  the  men  who 
held  the  Priesthood.  He  calls  them  the 
sons  of  God.  We  are  the  sons  of  God. 
That  same  divine  authority  has  been 
bestowed  upon  us.  We,  too,  in  this 
day  should  be  just  as  grateful  and  just 
as  willing  to  serve  and  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  and  magnify 
the  callings  which  have  been  given  unto 
us  as  were  these  men  in  former  days 
who  were  the  sons  of  God.  I  wonder 
if  we  realize  the  greatness  of  our  call- 
ings— yes,  all  the  elders  in  this  Church 
— do  they  realize  that  they  hold  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood?  Do  they 
know  that  through  their  faithfulness 
and  their  obedience,  according  to  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord,  they  are  en- 
titled to  receive  all  that  the  Father  has 
— to  become  the  sons  of  God,  joint 
heirs  with  our  Elder  Brother,  Jesus 
Christ,  entitled  to  the  exaltations  in  the 
celestial  kingdom?  Do  we  realize  that? 
We,  too,  if  we  do  realize  it,  should  be 
like  those  of  former  days,  and  every 
man  that  hath  this  hope  in  him,  'will 
purify  himself  even  as  Christ  is  pure. 
Brethren,  that  we  may  do  so,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


19 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 
Assistant  to  the  Council  o[  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren,  I  have  been  touched, 
as  you  have,  by  the  timely,  com- 
prehensive, straight-forward, 
and  inspiring  message  submitted  by  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church,  to  which  we 
have  just  listened.  I  share  with  you  an 
unusual  emotion  as  we  see  this  large 
gathering  of  Priesthood,  for  here  are 
represented  the  workers  and  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  in  the 
quality  of  leadership  represented  and 
manifested  here. 

A  great  responsibility  rests  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  a  responsibility 
which  consists,  not  only  in  teaching, 
but  in  living  the  restored  gospel.  The 
spiritual  crisis  existing  in  the  world  to- 
day is  a  challenge  to  every  church  and 
to  every  devoted  church  member. 

Roger  Babson,  within  the  last  week, 
has  endeavored  to  answer  the  question: 
"How  long  will  the  present  war  last?" 
He  said: 

It  will  end  only  when  we  repent  of  our 
sins,  readjust  our  wasteful  standards  of  liv- 
ing, and  once  more  make  God  the  ruler  of 
our  homes,  schools,  businesses,  and  nation. 

Mr.  Babson's  statement  reflects  the 
wisdom  of  a  man  who  has  spent  many 
years  in  the  study  of  economic  trends 
and  business  cycles.  He  has  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  man  cannot  live  by 
bread  alone,  and  that  we  have  reached 
a  juncture  in  the  history  of  this  world, 
when  it  is  either  "Christ  or  collapse." 


This  Church  has  supplied  a  back- 
ground before  which  our  nation  can  go 
forward  triumphantly,  victoriously  and 
gloriously.  No  nation  is  greater  than 
its  spiritual  concepts.  Spirituality  is 
a  recognition  of  God's  power  in  the 
universe  and  in  the  affairs  of  men  and 
nations.  It  is  a  recognition  of  divine 
commandment  as  a  guide  to  humanity  in 
their  struggles  and  strivings.  It  recog- 
nizes God  as  ruler  and  creator  and  pro- 
claims the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the 
brotherhood  of  man. 

This  Christian  doctrine  is  the  very 
cornerstone  of  freedom,  and  it  is  the 
mission  of  this  Church  to  promote  it, 
and  to  inspire  faith  in  the  hearts  of 
men.  In  this  solemn  obligation  we  must 
not  fail,  for  faith  is  the  bedrock  of  hu- 
man life,  without  which  the  soul  of  man 
has  no  anchorage.  Despotism  may 
govern  without  such  faith,  but  demo- 
cracy will  die  without  it. 

May  we  appreciate  the  opportunity 
we  have,  as  members  of  Christ's 
Church.  May  we  recognize  in  Jesus 
Christ  the  only  safe  leadership  which 
we  can  follow  in  these  days  of  uncer- 
tainty and  confusion. 

May  God  give  us  strength  and  wis- 
dom to  walk  in  the  way  of  righteous- 
ness, that  our  daily  example  may  be  a 
sermon  to  our  friends,  far  and  near,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 
Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


As  I  face  this  body  of  people,  I  al- 
ways feel  under  the  necessity,  it 
seems,  of  calling  upon  the  sus- 
tenance and  direction  of  my  Father  in 
heaven  for  what  I  shall  say,  and  I  do 
so  at  this  time. 

I  think  it  would  be  enjoyable  some 
time  when  the  pressure  of  life  is  not 
so  great,  to  indulge  in  the  luxury  of  long 
and  leisurely  sermonizing.  That  is  a 
luxury,  however,  that  sometimes  is  en- 
joyed by  the  speaker  more  than  it  is 
by  the  audience. 


First  of  all  this  morning  I  should  like 
to  welcome  to  his  new  calling,  Brother 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  have  enjoyed  the 
intimacy  of  his  home,  and  he  of  mine. 
I  have  stood  by  him  in  some  of  the 
critical  days  of  his  life,  of  which  he 
spoke  here  this  morning.  I  know  him 
to  be  a  man  of  faith  and  courage,  and 
I  look  forward  to  the  coming  years  of 
close  association  with  him  in  the  coun- 
cils of  the  Church. 

I  should  like  to  read  a  statement 
which    I    found    the    other    day,    first 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

printed  in  the  second  number  of  the  Eve- 
ning and  Morning  Star,  back  in  July, 
1832,  as  I  recall: 

The  old  world  was  destroyed  for  reject- 
ing the  revelations  of  God  given  to  them 
through  Noah.  The  Israelites  were  de- 
stroyed in  the  wilderness  for  despising  the 
revelations  given  to  them  through  Moses; 
and  Christ  said  that  the  world,  in  the  days 
of  the  apostles,  would  be  condemned  for 
not  receiving  the  word  of  God  through 
them:  Thus  we  see  that  the  judgments  of 
God  in  the  past  ages  have  come  upon  the 
people,  not  so  much  for  neglecting  the  reve- 
lations given  to  their  forefathers,  as  for  re- 
jecting those  given  particularly  to  them- 
selves. (Doc.  Hist,  vol.  1:277) 

Since  the  restoration  there  has  never 
been  a  time  in  the  history  of  this  people 
when  the  leadership  of  this  Church  has 
not  given  direction  concerning  those 
things  which  vitally  affect  the  temporal 
and  spiritual  welfare  of  this  Church 
and  this  people;  and  the  present  and  the 
immediate  past  are  no  exceptions  to 
this  general  statement.  Those  who 
have  not  seen  the  'way  in  which  that  di- 
rection has  pointed  have  not  seen  it, 
either  because  they  have  been  too  in- 
different, or  because  they  have  chosen 
not  to  see  it. 

I  hope  that  this  fact  will  be  burnished 
upon  our  hearts  and  not  only  upon  ours 
but  upon  the  hearts  of  all  of  our  young 
people,  as  they  leave  the  shelter  of  our 
homes,  of  necessity,  as  they  become 
uprooted  from  their  native  soil  in  this 
surge  of  humanity  that  floods  here  and 
there,  these  days,  that  they  may  be  led 
to  know,  with  us,  that  truth  is  not  a 


matter  of  convenience;  that  principles 
and  ideals  are  not  a  matter  of  geo- 
graphy or  environment;  that  there  is 
only  one  set  of  rules — that  a  thing  that 
was  not  right  at  home  is  not  right  away 
from  home — if  it  was  not  right  where 
we  came  from,  it  isn't  right  anywhere. 

T\fiAY  we  go  with  them — these  young 
people  of  ours — with  our  prayers 
and  our  letters — with  our  teachings  be- 
fore they  leave,  and  with  the  example 
of  our  own  lives  always  to  fortify 
them,  so  that  they  may  look  back  to 
us,  to  their  homes,  to  their  Church  for 
strength  and  comfort  in  critical  times. 

Concerning  all  that  has  been  spoken 
and  shall  be  spoken  during  this  con- 
ference, and  at  all  times,  by  the  lead- 
ership of  this  Church,  I  close  with  the 
words  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet: 

Therefore  I  declare  unto  you  the  warning 
which  the  Lord  has  commanded  to  declare 
unto  this  generation,  remembering  that  the 
eyes  of  my  Maker  are  upon  me,  and  that 
to  Him  I  am  accountable  for  every  word  I 
say,  wishing  nothing  worse  to  my  fellow 
men  than  their  eternal  salvation. 

May  God  help  all  of  us  to  have 
strength,  in  the  days  to  come,  no  mat- 
ter what  may  lie  before  us,  to  adhere  to 
those  principles  which  were  dearer  to 
our  fathers  than  life  itself.  No  matter 
how  we  may  be  called  upon  to  shift 
the  superstructure  of  our  lives,  and  to 
change  the  superficial  habits  of  our 
living,  may  we  never  shift  our  founda- 
tions, I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Him  whose 
work  this  is,  even  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IN  June  I  had  the  privilege  of  visiting 
some  of  the  shrines  of  the  Church, 
places  made  sacred  by  memorable 
events  in  the  history  of  the  restored 
gospel.  I  am  happy  to  report  that 
wherever  these  places  are  owned  or 
controlled  by  the  Church  they  are 
maintained  in  good  condition,  creditable 
to  the  great  cause  and  momentous 
things  they  commemorate.  So  signifi- 
cant to  Latter-day  Saints  is  every 
shrine  that-  a  discourse  might  be  built 
around  each  one.     That,  of  course,  is 


infeasible.  I  must  be  content  merely  to 
give  you  a  little  of  my  reflection  and 
feeling  as  I  came  into  the  atmosphere 
of  these  historic  places. 

Many  of  them  are  in  western  New 
York,  centering  around  the  city  of 
Palmyra.  The  Prophet's  boyhood 
home,  the  Sacred  Grove,  the  Hill  Cum- 
orah,  scenes  associated  with  the  trans- 
lation and  publication  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Peter  Whitmer  home 
where  the  Church  was  organized,  and 
the  site  of  the  first  baptisms — all  are 


,    ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


21 


within  short  drives  of  Palmyra.  Not 
far  distant  on  the  banks  of  the  Susque- 
hanna River  is  the  area  in  which  the 
Priesthood  was  restored. 

In  this  historic  section  perhaps  noth- 
ing is  quite  so  conspicuous  and  im- 
pressive as  the  Hill  Cumorah.  Capped 
by  the  beautiful  monument  which  the 
Church  has  erected,  it  is  the  outstand- 
ing landmark  of  the  countryside.  A 
well-designed  cottage-bureau  of  in- 
formation at  the  base  of  the  Hill  with 
beautifully  landscaped  grounds,  a  com- 
modious parking  space  for  cars,  and 
the  illumination  of  the  monument  at 
night  which  gives  to  it  and  to  the  statue 
of  the  Angel  Moroni  which  crowns  it 
the  appearance  and  atmosphere  of  an 
ethereal  apparition  projected  high  and 
impressively  into  the  night  sky,  all  com- 
bine to  make  this  spot  a  mecca  for 
tourists.  When,  as  has  been  the  year- 
ly custom,  the  missionaries  stage  a 
sacred  pageant  on  the  crest  of  the  Hill, 
representing  figures  and  events  of  the 
past,  culminating  in  the  coming  forth 
of  the  new  witness  for  Christ,  and 
when  the  trumpeters  in  the  stillness  of 
the  night,  stationed  at  the  base  of  the 
imposing  monument,  sound  their  clarion 
call  heralding  the  advent  of  the  new 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
thousands  of  spectators,  gathered 
from  far  and  near,  coming  mostly  out 
of  curiosity,  are  hushed  in  speechless 
and  awful  reverence  for  the  sacred  and 
mighty  thing  the  representation  por- 
trays. 

Tn  the  Sacred  Grove  there  comes  to 
one  of  faith,  a  solemnity  and  feeling 
that  are  indescribable.  It  is  believed 
that  many  of  the  large  stately  trees 
that  gave  shade  and  seclusion  to  the 
humble  boy  a  hundred  and  twenty 
years  ago  still  live.  Standing  beside 
these  ancient  silent  witnesses  who 
know  the  truth  it  is  not  difficult  to  se- 
cure confirmation  and  added  support 
for  testimony  and  conviction.  That 
something  which  we  call  the  soul  of 
man  responds  to  such  an  environment. 
His  inner  feelings  are  stirred,  the  spark 
of  divinity  within  him  is  kindled  anew, 
and  each  one  of  the  seventy  persons 
gathered  together  in  a  five-and-a-half- 
hour   missionary   meeting   in   this    ex- 


quisitely beautiful  Grove  knew,  as  per- 
haps he  had  never  known  before,  that 
the  experience  of  Joseph  within  these 
woods  was  actual,  that  he  did  behold 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  that  he  heard 
Them  speak  and  that  his  incompar- 
able mission  in  life  was  divinely  given 
to  him. 

Each  historic  scene  brought  similar 
feelings  and  confirmation.  There  was 
rejoicing  in  our  hearts  as  we  contem- 
plated the  great  labors  and  accomplish- 
ments of  the  Prophet  as  we  tried  to 
reconstruct  important  episodes  in  his 
life.  The  supernatural  translation  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  its  publication, 
the  attestation  of  its  divinity,  the  be- 
stowal of  the  Aaronic  and  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthoods,  the  organization 
of  the  Church  with  its  unique  and  ef- 
ficient government,  the  marvelous  mis- 
sionary work  carried  forward  under  his 
direction,  reaching  out  into  most  of  the 
nations  of  the  world  when  travel  and 
communication  were  extremely  diffi- 
cult, the  unparalleled  accretion  to  the 
Church  resulting  from  the  wide  accept- 
ance of  the  restored  gospel  by  brave 
souls  the  world  over,  the  inspired  in- 
terpretation of  the  gospel  message  with 
its  new  and  beautiful  concepts  which 
for  centuries  had  escaped  a  professed- 
ly Christian  world — these  and  many 
other  comparable  meditations  filled  our 
hearts  with  inexpressible  gratitude. 

^Throughout  our  visit,  however, 
there  was  ever  a  strain  of  sadness. 
We  realized  that  every  accomplish- 
ment had  been  attended  with  persecu- 
tion and  with  sorrow.  This  was  parti- 
cularly emphasized  on  our  way  home  in 
Nauvoo,  Carthage,  and  Winter  Quar- 
ters. 

It  was  inspiring  to  behold  the  magni- 
ficent site  of  Nauvoo.  The  state  of  Il- 
linois has  constructed  a  scenic  high- 
way along  the  banks  of  the  Mississippi. 
Nowhere  is  the  view  more  impressive 
than  at  the  bend  of  the  river  where 
Nauvoo  is  located.  What  a  thrill  must 
have  come  to  Joseph  and  his  friends  as 
they  saw  this  city  grow  with  its  lovely 
homes  and  business  institutions,  its  ad- 
joining farmlands,  its  churches,  schools 
and  recreational  facilities,  climaxed  by 
the  million-dollar  temple  that  symbol- 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

ized  perhaps  more  than  anything  else 
the  devotion,  the  sacrifice,  and  the  true 
faith  of  the  Saints.  Nauvoo  is  pretty 
much  a  ghost  city  today,  but  enough 
remains  to  help  us  visualize  what  it  was 
when  it  was  the  largest  city  in  the  state 
— a  bigger  city  than  Chicago  was.  It 
died  with  the  depredations  of  the  mob- 
ocrats  nearly  a  century  ago  and  has 
never  revived. 

Carthage  is  only  a  few  miles  distant. 
It  was  here  that  our  feelings  were  most 
deeply  touched.  The  jail  which  for 
many  years  was  used  as  a  residence 
has  been  restored  by  the  Church  as 
nearly  as  may  be  to  its  original  condi- 
tion. It  is  now  surrounded  by  lawn, 
shrubs,  and  flowers,  and  a  cottage  for 
the  keeper  has  been  erected  nearby. 
Many  visitors  come  to  this  place.  They 
are  taken  up  the  narrow  stairway  to 
the  upper  floor  where  the  mob  ascended 
on  that  fateful  June  27,  1844,  to  reach 
the  object  of  their  malice.  Visitors  are 
taken  into  the  room  in  which  the 
Prophet  and  his  friends  were  incar- 
cerated. They  are  shown  the  faint 
trace  of  the  martyred  Hyrum's  blood 
on  the  oak  floor  and  the  window 
through  which  the  Prophet  was  shot 
and  fell  as  he  gave  himself  to  seal  his 
testimony  for  the  cause  he  loved  more 
than  his  life. 

It  is  but  natural,  being  in  this  build- 
ing and  recalling  the  tragedy  enacted 
there,  that  I  should  think  of  my  grand- 
father. I  thought  of  his  devotion  to 
the  Prophet,  his  offer  to  give  his  very 
life  for  him,  how  he  declined  to  part 
from  him  even  at  the  risk  of  great  per- 
sonal danger,  his  care  of  the  wounded 
John  Taylor,  and  his  taking  the  bodies 
of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  back  to  Nauvoo. 
I  knew  that  he  had  had  the  closest  per- 
sonal relationship  with  Joseph  and  that 
if  there  had  been  anything  untrue 
about  him  he  would  have  discovered  it. 
I  know  that  Willard  Richards  had  the 
utmost  confidence  in  the  Prophet  and 
an  absolute  conviction  of  the  divinity  of 
the  latter-day  work.  This  realization, 
as  I  visited  this  sad  but  hallowed  scene 
of  our  history,  seemed  to  intensify 
within  me  my  responsibility  to  be  true 
and  as  helpful  as  my  capacity  would 
permit  to  the  cause  for  which  my  grand- 
father gave  his  devotion,  his  loyalty, 


First  Day 

and  his  life.  I  prayed  to  God  that  it 
might  be  so  and  that  all  of  us  in  the 
Church  who  are  the  descendants  of 
these  noble  men  and  the  beneficiaries 
of  their  sacrifice  and  devotion  might 
also  be  true  and  worthy. 

f^N  our  journey  westward  we  came 
^  to  the  cemetery  at  Winter  Quar- 
ters near  Omaha,  Nebraska.  Within 
the  grounds  the  Church  has  placed 
beautiful  statuary  and  other  embellish- 
ments to  commemorate  the  heroic  dead, 
more  than  six  thousand  of  whom  lost 
their  lives  in  westward  migration  to 
establish  Zion  in  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains. The  chief  statue  is  a  representa- 
tion of  a  pioneer  man  and  his  wife 
bowed  in  grief  over  a  shallow  grave 
wherein  is  laid  the  body  of  their  child. 
The  feeling  that  this  work  of  art  brings 
is  one  of  deep  sorrow.  You  must  weep 
with  the  mother  who  is  to  leave  her 
little  one  on  the  lonely  prairie,  never 
again  even  to  see  the  spot  where  her 
child  is  buried.  But  rising  above  the 
sorrow  are  a  great  courage  and  a  con- 
soling faith  that  take  the  stricken  par- 
ents resolutely  forward  in  their  quest 
for  freedom  and  right  and  make  them 
know  that  in  the  end  "all  is  well."  On 
a  large  flat  plaque  are  inscribed  the 
names  of  about  six  hundred  who  were 
buried  in  this  cemetery.  Among  the 
names  I  found  my  own  kin  and  those  of 
many  other  families  prominent  in  the 
settlement  of  our  western  common- 
wealth. 

It  was  all  very  sad,  and  I  kept  think- 
ing how  much  of  the  tragedy  might 
have  been  avoided  if  only  kindness  and 
tolerance  and  brotherly  love  had  been 
in  the  hearts  of  men.  There  was  a 
pathetic  side  to  every  historic  scene  at- 
tributable to  man's  inhumanity,  bigotry, 
and  selfishness,  but  in  my  reflections  I 
consoled  myself  with  the  thought  that 
no  great  thing  has  ever  come  into  the 
world  without  trial  and  tribulation,  and 
that  the  greater  the  cause,  the  greater 
the  sacrifice  necessary  to  establish  it. 

Today  we  find  ourselves  engaged  in 
a  worldwide  struggle  to  preserve  liber- 
ty and  tolerance,  the  foundations  of 
peace  in  the  earth.  Let  it  be  remem- 
bered that  these  were  the  very  prin- 
ciples for  which  our  progenitors  have 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  23 

made  the  tragic  sacrifices  of  which  I  have  emanated  from  the  Prophet  of  the 

have    briefly    reminded    you.      Every  last  dispensation. 

shrine  of  the  Church  is  a  monument  to  It  is  my  humble  prayer  that  God  will 

freedom  and  truth.     There  have  been  reward  trie  heroism,  the  sacrifices,  and 

no  more  sincere  and  valiant  defenders  the  devotion  of  the  past  with  the  per- 

of  true  democracy  than  the  Latter-day  petuation  of  liberty  and  goodness  in  the 

Saints.      No   higher    concepts   of    the  world,  and  that  peace — peace  founded 

liberty  of  man,  the  Sonship  of  God,  and  in  truth  and  in  virtue  and  in  Christian 

the    brotherhood    of    race    have   been  brotherhood — may   speedily    come,   in 

given  to  the  world  than  those  which  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.   Amen. 

After  the  singing  by  the  congregation  of  the  hymn,  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top,"  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Stephen  L. 
Chipman,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant  is  present  and  presiding  at  this  meeting.  He  has  asked 
that  I  conduct  the  services. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  President  Grant,  his  two 
Counselors,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Presidents  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  will  please  join  in  singing  "Praise  to  the  Man  Who 
Communed  With  Jehovah."  Elder  Richard  T.  Condie  will  direct  us,  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  To  The  Man." 
Elder  James  H.  Riley,  President  of  the  Weber  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  dominant  principle  in  Christ's  Church  is  service:  "Inasmuch  as 
ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it 
unto  me,"  said  the  Savior.  There  are  many  of  the  features  in  the  life  of 
Joseph  Smith  which  show  that  he  exemplified  that  Christlike  principle  in 
his  life.  One  you  will  remember  was  when  he  said,  "I  go  like  a  lamb  to  the 
slaughter," — "If  my  life  is  worth  nothing  to  my  friends,  it  is  worth  nothing 
to  me."  The  same  principle  he  exemplified  when  he  and  his  brother  Hyrum, 
John  Taylor,  and  Willard  Richards  were  in  Carthage  jail.  During  a  solemn 
moment  the  Prophet  said:  "John,  sing  'A  Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief.'  " 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  3  First  Day 

Though  there  are  seven  verses,  after  he  had  sung  them  the  Prophet  said: 
"Sing  it  again." 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant,  we  are  going  to  ask  Brother  Condie 
to  lead  us  in  this  song.  He  will  sing  the  first  two  stanzas  as  a  solo,  then  the 
congregation  will  sing  the  third,  he  will  sing  the  fourth  as  a  solo,  the  con- 
gregation will  sing  the  fifth,  he  will  sing  the  sixth,  and  we  will  conclude 
with  the  congregation  singing  the  seventh. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "A 
Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  following  testimony  would  have  been  given  by  President  Grant 
himself  in  person  had  not  the  doctor  advised  that  he  write  his  message  and 
not  attempt  to  stand  before  the  audience,  subjected  to  the  strain  that  natural- 
ly comes  therefrom.  He  asks  that  I  read  the  message  which  he  now  presents 
to  this  congregation  and  later  to  the  whole  world  as  it  will  be  printed.  You 
will  note  that  it  has  relation  to  the  message  given  in  the  two  songs  that  have 
already  been  sung. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  of 
expression  for  the  faith  and 
prayers  of  the  people  and  for  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  in  my  behalf. 
For  two  and  one-half  years  I  have 
been  gaining  a  little  since  I  became 
ill.  I  have  been  home  since  that  ill- 
ness overtook  me  a  little  longer  than 
two  years,  and  when  people  have 
asked  me  how  I  am,  I  have  said, 
"Better  than  I  was  yesterday,"  and 
this  is  really  true — I  have  been  gain- 
ing a  little  all  the  time.  To  begin 
with  I  could  not  move  my  left  leg  or 
my  left  arm.  The  doctors  said  it  was 
not  a  paralytic  stroke,  but  it  must 
have  been  at  least  a  second  cousin  to 
it.  I  could  walk  upstairs  only  one  step 
at  a  time  and  drag  my  left  leg  up. 
Now,  I  can  walk  up  and  down  stairs. 
I  can  walk  across  the  floor  without 
scraping  my  foot  on  the  carpet;  I 
can  throw  my  left  leg  over  my  right 
one  with  perfect  ease,  and  back 
again;  my  improvement  is  very  re- 
markable considering  the  condition 
I  was  in,  and  I  attribute    it    to    the 


prayers  of  the  Saints  in  my  behalf. 
I  am  grateful  to  them  beyond  ex- 
pression, and  I  am  grateful  to  the 
doctors  who  have  so  very  kindly 
taken  care  of  me  in  California  and 
here  at  home.  I  am  truly  appreciative 
of  the  interest  they  have  taken  in  my 
behalf.     I  feel  almost  normal. 

I  have  decided  to  tell  in  detail  one 
or  two  very  remarkable  things  that 
have  happened  in  my  life. 

I  was  made  one  of  the  apostles  in 
October,  1882.  On  the  6th  of  Octob- 
er, 1882, 1  met  Brother  George  Teas- 
dale  at  the  south  gate  of  the  temple. 
His  face  lit  up,  and  he  said :  "Brother 
Grant,  you  and  I" — very  enthus- 
iastically— and  then  he  commenced 
coughing  and  choking,  and  went  on 
into  meeting  and  did  not  finish  his 
sentence.  It  came  to  me  as  plainly  as 
though  he  had  said  the  words:  "Are 
going  to  be  chosen  this  afternoon  to 
fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles." 

I  went  to  the  meeting  and  my 
head  swelled,  and  I  thouht  to  my- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


25 


self,  "Well,  I  am  going  to  be  one  of 
the  apostles,"  and  I  was  willing  to 
vote  for  myself,  but  the  conference 
adjourned  without  anyone  being 
chosen. 

Ten  days  later  I  received  a  tele- 
gram saying,  "You  must  be  in  Salt 
Lake  tomorrow  without  fail."  I  was 
then  president  of  Tooele  Stake.  The 
telegram  came  from  my  partner,  Ne- 
phi  W.  Clayton.  When  I  got  to  the 
depot,  I  said:  "Nephi,  why  on  earth 
are  you  calling  me  back  here?  I  had 
an  appointment  out  in  Tooele  Stake." 

"Never  mind,"  he  said;  "it  was  not 
I  who  sent  for  you;  it  was  Brother 
Lyman.  He  told  me  to  send  the  tele- 
gram and  sign  my  name  to  it.  He  told 
me  to  come  and  meet  you  and  take  you 
to  the  President's  office.  That  is  all  I 
know." 

So  I  went  to  the  President's  office,  and 
there  sat  Brother  Teasdale,  and  all  of 
the  ten  Apostles,  and  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  and  also  Seymour  B.  Young 
and  the  members  of  the  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  the  Seventies.  And  the  revela- 
tion was  read  calling  Brother  Teas- 
dale  and  myself  to  the  apostleship,  and 
Brother  Seymour  B.  Young  to  be  one 
of  the  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seven- 
ties. 

Brother  Teasdale  was  blessed  by 
President  John  Taylor,  and  George  Q. 
Cannon  blessed   me. 

After  the  meeting  I  said  to  Brother 
Teasdale,  "I  know  what  you  were  go- 
ing to  say  to  me  on  the  sixth  of  October 
when  you  happened  to  choke  half  to 
death  and  then  went  into  the  meet- 
ing." 

He  said,  "Oh,  no,  you  don't." 

"Yes,  I  do,"  and  I  repeated  it:  "You 
and  I  are  going  to  be  called  to  the 
apostleship." 

He  said,  "Well,  that  is  what  I  was 
going  to  say,  and  then  it  occurred  to 
me  that  I  had  no  right  to  tell  it,  that  I 
had  received  a  manifestation  from  the 
Lord."  He  said,  "Heber,  I  have  suf- 
fered the  tortures  of  the  damned  for 
ten  days,  thinking  I  could  not  tell  the 
difference  between  a  manifestation 
from  the  Lord  and  one  from  the  devil, 
that  the  devil  had  deceived  me." 


I  said,  "I  have  not  suffered  like  that, 
but  I  never  prayed  so  hard  in  my  life 
for  anything  as  I  did  that  the  Lord 
would  forgive  me  for  the  egotism  of 
thinking  that  I  was  fit  to  be  an  apostle, 
and  that  I  was  ready  to  go  into  that 
meeting  ten  days  ago  and  vote  for  my- 
self to  be  an  apostle." 

I  was  a  very  unhappy  man  from  Oc- 
tober until  February.  For  the  next  i 
four  months  whenever  I  would  bear  my 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Savior, 
there  seemed  to  be  a  voice  that  would 
say:  "You  lie,  because  you  have  never 
seen  Him."  One  of  the  brethren  had 
made  the  remark  that  unless  a  man  had 
seen  the  Lamb  of  God — that  was  his 
expression — he  was  not  fit  to  be  an 
apostle.  This  feeling  that  I  have  men- 
tioned would  follow  me.  I  would  wake 
up  in  the  night  with  the  impression: 
"You  do  not  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  because  you 
have  never  seen  Him,"  and  the  same 
feeling  would  come  to  me  when  I  would 
preach  and  bear  testimony.  It  worried 
me  from  October  until  the  following 
February. 

I  was  in  Arizona  in  February,  travel- 
ing with  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  and  a 
number  of  other,  brethren,  visiting  the 
Navajo  Indians  and  the  Moki  Indians. 
Several  of  our  party  were  riding  in 
"White  Tops"  and  several  on  horse- 
back. I  was  in  the  rear  of  the  party 
with  Brother  Lot  Smith.  He  was  on 
a  big  fine  iron-grey  horse,  and  I  was  on 
a  small  mule  that  I  had  discovered  was 
the  easiest  and  best  riding  animal  I  had 
ever  straddled. 

We  were  going  due  east  when  the 
road  changed  and  went  almost  north, 
but  there  was  a  trail  ahead  of  us,  and  I 
said,  "Hold  on,  Lot;  stop." 

I  said,  "Brother  Smith,  where  does 
this  trail  lead?" 

He  said,  "It  leads  to  a  great  gully 
just  a  short  distance  away,  and  no 
team  can  possibly  travel  over  it.  We 
have  to  make  a  regular  mule  shoe  of  a 
ride  to  get  to  the  other  side  of  the 
gully." 

I  said,  "Is  there  any  danger  from 
Indians  if  a  man  were  alone  over 
there?" 

"None  at  all." 

I  said:    "I  visited  the  spot  yesterday 


26 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


Saturday.   October  3 

where  George  A.  Smith,  Jr.,  was  killed 
by  a  Navajo  Indian,  who  asked  him  for 
his  pistol  and  then  shot  him  with  it,  and 
I  feel  a  little  nervous,  but  if  there  is  no 
danger  I  want  to  be  all  alone,  so  you 
go  on  with  the  party  and  I  will  take 
that  trail." 

I  had  this"  feeling  that  I  ought  not  to 
testify  any  more  about  the  Savior  and 
that,  really,  I  was  not  fit  to  be  an 
apostle.  It  seemed  overwhelming  to  me 
that  I  should  be  one.  There  was  a 
spirit  that  said:  "If  you  have  not  seen 
the  Savior,  why  don't  you  resign  your 
position?" 

As  I  rode  along  alone,  I  seemed  to 
see  a  council  in  heaven.  The  Savior 
was  there;  the  Prophet  Joseph  was 
there;  my  father  and  others  that  I  knew 
were  there.  In  this  council  it  seemed 
that  they  decided  that  a  mistake  had 
been  made  in  not  filling  the  vacancies 
in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and  con- 
ference had  adjourned.  The  chances 
were  the  Brethren  would  wait  another 
six  months,  and  the  way  to  remedy  the 
situation  was  to  send  a  revelation  nam- 
ing the  men  who  should  fill  the  vacan- 
cies. In  this  council  the  Prophet  said. 
"I  want  to  be  represented  by  one  of 
my  own  in  that  Council." 

A  little  while  before  this  I  had  at- 
tended the  funeral  of  Brother  Snede- 
ker,  a  counselor  in  the  bishopric  of  Mill 
Creek  Ward,  and  Brother  Joseph  E. 
Taylor  spoke  at  the  services.  In  his 
remarks  he  became  very  pathetic  to 
think  that  the  Prophet  had  given  his  life 
for  the  Cause  and  that  he  had  no  repre- 
sentative in  the  quorums  of  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church.  He  was  followed 
by  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  Broth- 
er Smith  said:  "  'We  believe  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God  as  far  as  it  is 
translated  correctly,'  and  I  believe  it  is 
translated  correctly  when  it  says  that 
if  a  man  die  his  brother  shall  marry  his 
widow  and  raise  up  seed  to  the  dead 
man,  and  I  need  to  take  only  two  steps 
from  where  I  am  standing  now  to  place 
my  hand  on  the  shoulder  of  a  man  who 
is  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 


First  Day 

Church,  who  is  a  son  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,"  and  he  pointed  directly  at  me. 

It  made  a  very  f*rofound  impression 
upon  me,  and  I  wondered  if  I  should 
tell  the  people  about  it.  I  had  always 
understood  and  known  that  my  mother 
was  sealed  to  the  Prophet,  and  that 
Brigham  Young  had  told  my  father  that 
he  would  not  marry  my  mother  to  him 
for  eternity,  because  he  had  instruc- 
tions from  the  Prophet  that  if  anything 
happened  to  him  before  he  was  mar- 
ried to  Rachel  Ivins  she  must  be  sealed 
to  him  for  eternity,  that  she  belonged  to 
him. 

That  is  the  reason  that  Father  spoke 
up  in  this  council  to  which  I  have  re- 
ferred, and  said:  "Why  not  choose 
the  boy  who  bears  my  name,  who  be- 
longs to  you,  to  be  one  of  the  apostles?" 
That  inspiration  was  given  to  me. 

I  can  truthfully  say  that  from  Febru- 
ary, 1883,  until  today  I  have  never  had 
any  of  that  trouble,  and  I  can  bear  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God;  and  the  evil 
one  does  not  try  to  persuade  me  that  I 
do  not  know  what  I  am  talking  about.  I 
have  never  had  one  slight  impression 
to  the  contrary.  I  have  just  had  real, 
genuine  joy  and  satisfaction  in  pro- 
claiming the  gospel  and  bearing  my 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  divine  calling  of  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet. 

Now,  brethren,  I  could  go  on  dictat- 
ing by  the  hour,  there  are  so  many 
things  that  have  happened  in  my  life 
that  I  would  like  to  tell  you. 

I  once  more  thank  the  Saints  for 
their  faith  and  for  their  prayers,  and 
for  the  strength  that  I  have  today  in 
comparison  with  two  and  one-half 
years  ago. 

May  God's  blessings  be  and  abide 
with  you,  one  and  all,  and  all  the 
Saints  and  all  the  honest  people  the 
world  over,  is  the  prayer  of  my  heart, 
even  so.    Amen. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


27 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren,  I  have  read  the  Bible  sev- 
eral times.  I  have  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  studied  it,  and  re- 
joiced in  the  teachings  thereoL  I  have 
rejoiced  in  reading  and  studying  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
also  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  recom- 
mend these  books  to  many  honest  souls 
asking  questions  about  them.  These 
books  constitute  a  library,  one  of  the 
greatest  libraries  in  the  world,  because 
It  sets  forth  the  truth,  and  calls  atten- 
tion to  the  wages  of  evil,  and  warns 
against  the  evil. 

There  are  many  interesting  and  in- 
structive stories  and  principles  in  these 
good  books.  If  we  will  follow  the 
teachings  thereof  closely  through  our 
lives,  we  will  reach  a  safe  journey's  end. 

I  was  reading,  the  other  day,  from  the 
book  of  Alma,  who  was  the  son  of 
Alma.  I  think  likely  you  would  be  in- 
terested if  I  read  some,  this  afternoon, 
from  the  character  of  Alma  the  Second. 

This  Alma,  the  Second,  was  address- 
tag  himself  to  his  son  Helaman.  This 
is  where  the  story  begins,  and  very  soon 
has  an  ending. 

My  son,  give  ear  to  my  words;  for  I  swear 
unto  you,  that  inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  ye  shall  prosper  in 
the  land. 

I  would  that  ye  should  do  as  I  have  done, 
In  remembering  the  captivity  of  our  fathers; 
for  they  were  in  bondage,  and  none  could 
deliver  them  except  it  was  the  God  of  Abra- 
ham, and  the  God  of  Isaac,  and  the  God  of 
Jacob;  and  he  surely  did  deliver  them  in 
their  afflictions. 

And  now,  O  my  son  Helaman,  behold, 
thou  art  in  thy  youth,  and  therefore  I  be- 
seech of  thee  that  thou  wilt  hear  my  words 
and  learn  of  me;  for  I  do  know  that  whoso- 
ever shall  put  their  trust  in  God  shall  be 
supported  in  their  trials,  and  their  troubles, 
and  their  afflictions,  and  shall  be  lifted  up 
at  the  last  day. 

And  I  would  not  that  ye  think  that  I  know 
of  myself — not  of  the  temporal  but  of  the 
spiritual,  not  of  the  carnal  mind  but  of  God. 

Now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  if  I  had  not 
been  born  of  God  I  should  not  have  known 
these  things;  but  God  has,  by  the  mouth  ol 
his  holy  angel,  made  these  things  known 
unto  me,  not  of  any  worthiness  of  myself; 


For  I  went  about  with  the  sons  of  Mosiah, 
seeking  to  destroy  the  church  of  God;  but 
behold,  God  sent  his  holy  angel  to  stop  us 
by  the  way. 

And  behold,  he  spake  unto  us,  as  it  were 
the  voice  of  thunder,  and  the  whole  earth 
did  tremble  beneath  our  feet;  and  we  all  fell 
to  the  earth,  for  the  fear  of  the  Lord  came 
upon  us. 

But  behold,  the  voice  said  unto  me:  Arise. 
And  I  arose  and  stood  up,  and  beheld  the 
angel. 

And  he  said  unto  me:  If  thou  wilt  of  thy- 
self be  destroyed,  seek  no  more  to  destroy 
the  church  of  God. 

And.it  came  to  pass  that  I  fell  to  the 
earth;  and  it  was  for  the  space  of  three  days 
and  three  nights  that  I  could  not  open  my 
mouth,  neither  had  I  the  use  of  my  limbs. 

And  the  angel  spake  more  things  unto 
me,  which  were  heard  by  my  brethren,  but 
I  did  not  hear  them;  for  when  I  heard  the 
words — If  thou  wilt  be  destroyed  of  thy- 
self, seek  no  more  to  destroy  the  church  of 
God — I  was  struck  with  such  great  fear  and 
amazement  lest  perhaps  I  should  be  de- 
stroyed, that  I  fell  to  the  earth  and  I  did 
hear  no  more. 

But  I  was  racked  with  eternal  torment,  for 
my  soul  was  harrowed  up  to  the  greatest 
degree  and  racked  with  all  my  sins. 

Yea,  I  did  remember  all  my  sins  and  in- 
iquities, for  which  I  was  tormented  with  the 
pains  of  hell:  yea,  I  saw  that  I  had  rebelled 
against  my  God,  and  that  I  had  not  kept  his 
holy  commandments. 

Yea,  and  I  had  murdered  many  of  his 
children,  or  rather,  led  them  away  unto  de- 
struction; yea,  and  in  fine  so  great  had  been 
my  iniquities,  that  the  very  thought  of  com- 
ing into  the  presence  of  my  God  did  rack 
my  soul  with  inexpressible  horror. 

Oh,  thought  I,  that  I  could  be  banished 
and  become  extinct  both  soul  and  body, 
that  I  might  not  be  brought  to  stand  in  the 
presence  of  my  God,  to  be  judged  of  my 
deeds. 

And  now,  for  three  days  and  for  three 
nights  was  I  racked,  even  with  the  pains  of 
a  damned  soul. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  as  I  was  thus 
racked  with  torment,  while  I  was  harrowed 
up  by  the  memory  of  my  many  sins,  behold, 
I  remembered  also  to  have  heard  my  father 
prophesy  unto  the  people  concerning  the 
coming  of  one  Jesus  Christ,  a  Son  of  God, 
to  atone  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

Now,  as  my  mind  caught  hold  upon  this 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,   October  3 

thought,  I  cried  within  my  heart:  O  Jesus, 
thou  Son  of  God,  have  mercy  on  me,  who 
am  in  the  gall  of  bitterness,  and  am  encircled 
about  by  the  everlasting  chains  of  death. 

And  now,  behold,  when  I  thought  this 
I  could  remember  my  pains  no  more;  yea 
I  was  harrowed  up  by  the  memory  of  nr> 
sins  no  more. 

And  oh,  what  joy,  and  what  marvelous 
light  I  did  behold;  yea,  my  soul  was  filled 
with  joy  as  exceeding  as  was  my  painl 

Yea,  I  say  unto  you,  my  son,  that  then 
could  be  nothing  so  exquisite  and  so  bittet 
as  were  my  pains.  Yea,  and  again  I  say 
unto  you,  my  son,  that  on  the  other  hand, 
there  can  be  nothing  so  exquisite  and  sweet 
as  was  my  joy. 

Yea,  methought  I  saw,  even  as  our  father 
Lehi  saw,  God  sitting  upon  his  throne,  sur- 
rounded with  numberless  concourses  of  an- 
gels, in  the  attitude  of  singing  and  praising 
their  God;  yea,  and  my  soul  did  long  to  be 
there. 

But  behold,  my  limbs  did  receive  theij 
strength  again,  and  I  stood  upon  my  feet, 
and  did  manifest  unto  the  people  that  I  had 
been  born  of  God. 

Yea,  and  from  that  time  even  until  now 
I  have  labored  without  ceasing,  that  I  mighi 
bring  souls  unto  repentance;  that  I  mighi 
bring  them  to  taste  of  the  exceeding  joy  of 
which  I  did  taste;  that  they  might  also  bf 
born  of  God,  and  be  filled  with  the  Hol> 
Ghost. 

Yea,  and  now  behold,  O  my  son,  the  Lord 
doth  give  me  exceeding  great  joy  in  tht 
fruit  of  my  labors; 


First  Dag 

For  because  of  the  word  which  he  nas 
imparted  unto  me,  behold,  many  have  been 
born  of  God,  and  have  tasted  as  I  have 
tasted,  and  have  seen  eye  to  eye  as  I  have 
seen;  therefore  they  do  know  of  these  things 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  as  I  do  know;  and 
the  knowledge  which  I  have  is  of  God. 

And  I  have  been  supported  under  trials 
and  trouble  of  every  kind,  yea,  and  in  all 
manner  of  afflictions:  yea,  God  has  deliv- 
ered me  from  prison,  and  from  bonds,  and 
from  death;  yea,  and  I  do  put  my  trust  irs 
him,  and  he  will  still  deliver  me. 

And  I  know  that  he  will  raise  me  up  at 
the  last  day,  to  dwell  with  him  in  glory; 
yea,  and  I  will  praise  him  forever,  for  he  has 
brought  our  fathers  out  of  Egypt,  and  he 
has  swallowed  up  the  Egyptians  in  the 
Red  Sea;  and  he  led  them  by  his  power  into 
the  promised  land;  yea,  and  he  has  delivered 
them  out  of  bondage  and  captivity  from 
time  to  time.     (Alma  36:1-28) 

jVTow,  brethren,  this  is  a  remarkable 
^  case.  It  shows  the  love  and  mercy 
of  God  that  was  shown  to  this  man 
when  he  repented  of  his  sins.  God  took 
mercy  upon  him  and  forgave  him  of 
his  sins,  and  he  accomplished  a  mighty 
work  among  his  people,  and  he  became 
high  priest  in  the  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  breth- 
ren. This  large  audience  is  a  great 
sight,  but  I  must  not  linger  as  there  are 
others  yet  to  speak. 

Peace  be  with  you.    Amen. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  am  grateful  for  this  privilege  and 
trust  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings 
of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord. 

In  the  twelfth  chapter  of  Hebrews 
we  read:  "Yet  once  more  I  shake  the 
earth — that  those  things  which  cannot 
be  shaken  may  remain." 

Great  is  our  stewardship!  May  we 
be  worthy  of  it  and  magnify  it! 

Under  the  calling  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  I  find  myself  con- 
cerned primarily  with  two  great  pro- 
grams— our  youth  and  our  great  mis- 
sionary work. 

Here  lies  opportunity — youth  with  its 
great  spiritual  possibilities,  and  trained 


to  do  its  duty,  and  the  world  hunger- 
ing for  the  gospel  message. 

Recently  while  visiting  in  the  North- 
ern States  Mission  we  were  traveling 
one  day  through  the  state  of  Indiana. 
We  were  impressed  with  the  great 
farms  and  the  great  corn  crop.  "How 
many  kernels  of  corn  are  there  on  a 
cob?"  asked  President  Muir.  I  did  not 
know.  "Well,"  said  he,  "there  are 
many  cobs  that  have  as  many  as  1000 
kernels."  I  had  my  doubts  and  at  the 
next  prosperous  farm,  I  requested  that 
the  car  stop.  I  went  in  and  proffered  to 
purchase  a  large  cob.  A  boy  near  by 
said:    "Come  on,  I'll  give  you  an  ear 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


29 


of  corn."  We  went  to  the  barnyard 
and  as  I  passed  a  large  crib  I  said — 
"There  is  a  fine  big  ear,  may  I  take 
this?"  "No,"  said  the  boy,  "that  is  our 
seed  corn."  He  found  me  a  large  cob 
soon,  however,  and  to  my  surprise 
there  were  nine  hundred  and  forty  ker- 
nels on  the  cob.  This  number  of  kernels 
soon  became  a  secondary  thing,  how- 
ever, for  I  was  still  thinking  of  what  the 
boy  had  said.  "No,  you  can't  have  that. 
It  is  our  seed  corn." 

I  remember  reading  that  when  Robert 
E.  Lee  was  being  pressed  in  the  south 
to  conscript  the  sixteen-year-old  boy 
for  service  in  the  Confederate  Army, 
he  said:  "No,  we  cannot  do  that,  they 
are  our  seed  corn." 

We,  today,  in  our  own  Church  have 
the  task  to  preserve  our  youth — "that 
those  things  which  cannot  be  shaken 
may  remain." 

Among  the  many  things  which  we 
may  do,  I  suggest — A  greater  and 
deeper  sincerity  among  us — we  who  are 
called  to  lead. 

A  boy  recently  speaking  to  his  chum 
about  his  father,  who  had  asked  him  to 
attend  his  quorum  meeting,  said:  "I 
felt  something  deeply  sincere  in  father's 
voice  today — and  I  liked  it." 

A  president  of  a  stake  recently  after 
reviewing  the  results  of  a  stake  Priest- 
hood meeting  said:  "Before  this  meet- 
ing I  should  have  had  an  hour  of  medi- 
tation and  prayer."  Yes,  brethren,  our 
task  calls  for  our  best — a  deep  sincerity 
in  what  we  do. 

We  must  give  them  our  companion- 
ship.    We  must   be   nearer  to   them. 

One  of  our  sons  recently  came  home 
from  college  for  a  few  days  before  he 
went  into  the  armed  forces  of  our 
country.  I  was  asking  him  what  he 
needed — how  much  money  for  travel 
and  so  on.  I  was  surprised  to  hear  him 
say — -"Well,  Father,  what  I  need  most 
is  a  long  talk  with  you."  And  I  shall 
never  forget  those  sacred  hours.  He 
may  have  been  helped  a  bit — and  I 
know  I  was  helped  a  great  deal.  We 
shared  the  conversation  as  we  spoke 


of  the  importance  of  faith  in  oneself, 
and  faith  in  our  dreams  of  the  future, 
never  to  falter  or  fail;  faith  in  mankind, 
although  we  may  be  greatly  tried;  and 
faith  in  God,  for  His  love  will  endure 
forever  and  be  a  protection  and  help  in 
the  hour  of  great  need. 

Yes,  and  we  must  be  nearer  to  the 
thousands  at  home  in  our  own  com- 
munity life.  A  boy  or  girl  with  a 
purse  full  of  money,  with  a  natural  urge 
for  a  good  time,  a  hundred  questionable 
places  to  go,  is  a  real  individual  and 
social  problem  and  a  most  vital  chal- 
lenge to  us — their  leaders.  Have  we 
provided  the  best  we  can?  Are  we 
meeting  their  needs?  Do  they  feel  a 
sense  of  cooperation?  We  must  be 
nearer  to  them.  They  are  waiting  and 
willing  to  be  led. 

We  must  teach  them  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  as 
restored  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
For  this  great  message  has  been  en- 
trusted to  us.  We  must  teach  them  that 
it  is  not  only  for  the  enrichment  of  their 
own  lives  but  that  they  may  become  the 
ambassadors  of  the  gospel — for  it  is  to 
be  preached  to  all  the  world. 

Last  week  in  Akron,  Ohio,  I  was 
greatly  blessed:  I  baptised  five  friends. 
After  they  had  been  confirmed,  one  of 
them,  a  girl  in  her  early  teens  said, 
with  tear-filled  eyes,  "Oh,  how  grate- 
ful I  am!  This  is  the  happiest  moment 
of  my  life!" 

Yes,  the  gospel  is  the  most  joyous 
gift  of  life. 

May  we  preserve  and  train  these 
youth  for  their  great  destiny.  And  if 
we  do  our  part  sincerely,  humbly,  and 
aggressively,  lo,  the  Lord  will  work 
the  miracles  with  us  and  our  hearts 
shall  be  filled  with  courage  and  joy. 
'Yet  once  more  I  shake  the  earth — 
that  those  things  which  cannot  be 
shaken  may  remain." 

I  humbly  pray  for  us — the  strength, 
wisdom,  and  the  love  to  do  our  task, 
and  I  ask  for  these  blessings  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


30 

Saturday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


First  Day 


To  you,  my  beloved  brethren,  to 
you  who  have  been  chosen,  se- 
lected, and  invited  to  attend  this 
great  conference,  I  extend  my  love, 
and  also  my  great  admiration  for  that 
which  is  going  on  in  this  Church.  All 
my  life,  as  I  feel  that  also  all  your  lives, 
you  have  seen  the  hand  of  God  in  its 
operation.  And  yet,  for  the  moment 
or  two  that  I  have  to  stand  here,  I 
would  like  to  say  something  that  might 
make  us  feel  just  a  little  bit  more  of  an 
urge  to  do  that  which  we  know  should 
be  done. 

This  great  gathering  blessed  with 
the  choicest  diadem  of  God,  His 
Priesthood,  is  for  what?  Surely  we  all 
can  answer;  it  is  for  but  one  purpose, 
and  that  purpose  is  to  bring  to  pass  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  men,  and  is 
so  declared  by  the  Lord  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "Behold,  this 
is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man."  No  more  plainly  stated  is 
this,  than  that  which  is  declared  in  the 
first  chapter  of  Genesis  in  our  holy 
sacred  history,  the  Bible.  You  will  re- 
call that  God,  after  having  formed 
this  earth — after  having  created  this 
great  universe — after  all  things,  both 
animal  and  vegetable  had  been  made  by 
Him,  and  in  the  great  firmament  above 
that  He  had  placed  great  lights,  the 
sun,  the  moon,  and  the  twinkling  stars, 
those  heavenly  traffic  signals  that  we 
should  obey,  for  they  turn  the  days  into 
weeks  and  the  weeks  into  months,  and 
the  months  into  years — then  God  did 
something  which  to  me  is  one  of  the 
most  marvelous  things  that  I  have  read 
about.  God  spoke  to  His  companions 
and  said,   "Let  us  make  man  in  our 


image,  after  our  likeness."  "So  God 
created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the 
image  of  God  created  he  him;  male  and 
female  created  he  them." 

And  then  the  thing  which  was  per- 
formed which  brings  us  nearer  to  God 
than  anything  that  I  can  imagine,  was 
this:  "And  the  Lord  God  formed  man 
of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed 
into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life;  and 
man  became  a  living  soul." 

That  which  God  has  made  He  de- 
sired protected  and  kept.  Even  so 
every  declaration  that  we  have  in  our 
sacred  history  handed  down  to  us  by 
tradition  bears  this  same  record  and 
this  same  declaration:  preserve  and 
keep  and  save  the  souls  of  men. 

And,  so,  especially  to  our  seventies, 
especially  to  these  men  upon  whose 
shoulders  rests  the  responsibility  di- 
rectly from  God  of  teaching  and 
preaching  this  gospel  abroad  and  at 
home,  I  would  say  remember  that  which 
is  choicest  of  all  things  in  God's  heart 
is  the  souls  of  men,  and  preserve  them 
and  keep  them. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  associations — 
thankful  to  God  for  the  opportunity  I 
have  had  of  being  associated  with 
these  fine  men  who  stand  at  the  head 
of  this  Church,  and  I  trust  and  pray 
that  I  may  always  be  worthy — that  I 
may  do  that  which  will  bring  to  pass 
that  which  God  would  like  accom- 
plished and  that  we  all,  you  fine  presi- 
dents of  stakes,  presidents  of  quorums, 
bishops  of  wards,  together,  may  bend 
our  efforts  to  bring  to  pass  God's  wish 
that  the  souls  of  men  may  be  saved  in 
His  kingdom,  I  ask,  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


With  all  my  heart,  brethren,  I  ap- 
preciate the  opportunity  of  be- 
ing here  today,  feasting  on  the 
spiritual  food  that  we  have  been  receiv- 
ing from  our  leaders  and  associates.  I 
thank  the  Lord  that  there  never  has 


been  a  time  in  my  life  that  a  shadow  of 
a  doubt  has  crossed  my  mind  as  to  the 
divinity  of  this  work  and  the  divine 
calling  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
those  who  have  succeeded  him  in  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church.     I  thrilled 


\ 

BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


31 


today  with  President  Grant's  testi- 
mony, as  it  was  read  to  us  by  President 
McKay,  and  I  was  delighted  with  the 
message  of  the  First  Presidency  de- 
livered to  us  this  morning  by  President 
Clark.  Of  all  the  leadership  in  the 
world  today,  surely  there  is  none  com- 
parable to  that  which  we  have  in  the 
Church.  How  safe  and  secure  we  should 
feel  in  following  their  precepts  and 
their  example. 

A  few  days  ago  I  received  a  letter 
from  a  man  in  the  East  with  whom  I 
have  had  some  correspondence — a 
prominent  business  man,  but  not  a  mem- 
ber of  our  Church.  I  forwarded  him 
some  of  our  literature.  He  and  his  wife 
have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  three 
times.  He  has  just  read  the  Articles  of 
Faith  and  writes  a  beautiful  apprecia- 
tion for  the  truths  contained  therein. 
But  I  would  like  to  read  from  his  letter 
his  comment  after  having  read  the  mes- 
sage of  the  First  Presidency  delivered 
at  the  April  conference.  He  says:  "The 
message  of  the  First  Presidency  was 
read  with  intense  interest.  It  portrays 
the  mind  of  a  soul  deeply  interested  in 
the  welfare  of  a  higher  civilization,  with 
a  clear  understanding  of  'mercy  and 
justice.'  "  It  is  good  to  know  that  think- 
ing men,  though  not  of  us,  recognize  the 
power  of  leadership  of  those  whom  the 
Lord  has  placed  to  guide  His  people  in 
these  days. 

"\\7e  have  a  great  responsibility,  those 
"  of  us  who  are  here  today.  For  we 
represent  the  leadership  of  this  Church 
— the  General  Authorities  and  those 
who  preside  in  the  stakes,  the  wards, 
and  the  Priesthood  quorums  of  the 
Church.  We  have  problems  and  re- 
sponsibilities and  opportunities  probab- 
ly such  as  we  have  never  had  before, 
particularly  in  these  defense  areas.  I 
hope  we  will  realize  that  there  will  be 
more  expected  of  us — that  our  arms  will 
be  just  a  little  longer,  and  our  love  a 
little  deeper,  and  our  faith  a  little  more 
sincere,  and  that  our  confidence  and 
trust  in  God  and  the  ultimate  triumph  of 
His  work  in  the  earth  may  never  falter. 

I  hope  the  bishops  will  realize  that 
they  are  in  very  deed  fathers  of  the 


people,  all  who  live  within  the  confines 
of  their  wards  whether  their  names  be 
on  their  records  or  not.  Many  have 
come  from  outside  places  and  they  need 
care  and  attention.  I  hope  the  bishops 
will  also  sense  their  great  responsibili- 
ty as  presidents  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood in  their  wards — that  the  ward 
teachers  will  realize  that  their  responsi- 
bility is  greater  than  ever  before,  that 
the  presidencies  of  Priesthood  quorums 
and  all  charged  with  responsibility  in 
this  Church  will  respond  thereto  as 
never  before.  And  I  wouldn't  like  to 
overlook  the  seventies,  for  I  feel  with 
Brother  Kirkham  the  great  importance 
of  missionary  work,  for  the  Lord  has 
decreed  that  the  gospel  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
to  all  nations,  even  to  every  creature.  I 
feel  that  there  are  added  opportunities 
within  our  reach  today,  and  I  hope  that 
we  will  meet  these  responsibilities  in 
such  a  way  that  whoever  comes  into  our 
communities  need  never  go  away  and 
say  that  he  was  not  given  an  opportuni- 
ty to  hear  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  from  the  elders  of  this  Church. 

I  would  like  to  leave  one  other 
thought  with  you  before  closing.  It 
has  been  said  that  those  who  live  in 
glass  houses  should  not  throw  stones. 
Probably  it  was  because  Paul  never  had 
any  children  of  his  own  that  he  wasn't 
afraid  to  tell  the  bishops  and  deacons 
that  they  should  be  able  to  rule  well 
their  own  houses,  for  said  he:  "If  a 
man  know  not  how  to  rule  his  own 
house,  how  shall  he  take  care  of  the 
church  of  God."  Some  of  us  may  not 
have  dared  say  such  a  thing,  but  I  be- 
lieve that  under  present  conditions  we 
should  give  more  thought  to  this,  each 
one  of  us  individually,  than  we  have 
ever  done  before. 

■\17e  listened  to  President  Clawson  a 
few  minutes  ago  reading  the  words 
of  Alma.  It  has  always  occurred  to  me 
that  that  great  mission  of  Alma,  the  son, 
was  the  result  of  the  faith  and  the  pray- 
ers of  Alma,  his  father,  who  pleaded 
with  the  Lord  until  the  Lord  saw  fit  to 
call  him  back  from  the  error  of  his  ways. 
I  wonder  if  we  are  doing  that  for  our 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

boys  and  girls.  I  wonder  if  we  are 
holding  council  meetings  as  husbands 
and  wives,  and  fathers  and  mothers,  to 
try  to  meet  the  new  conditions  and 
temptations  that  are  in  our  midst.  I 
wonder  if  we  know  each  one  of  our 
children  well  enough  to  know  that  they 
are  making  their  contribution  to  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  in 
the  earth.  Are  our  children  setting  an 
example  because  of  our  power  as  lead- 
ers and  priests  in  our  own  homes? 

A  few  days  ago,  I  received  a  letter 
from  one  of  our  boys  in  the  service,  and 
I  commend  the  counsel  given  in  this  con- 
ference, that  we  write  them.  He  said 
he  had  just  been  ordained  an  elder  in 
the  Church,  and  he  thanked  the  Lord 
for  that  more  than  for  any  other  thing. 
While  he  has  been  in  the  service  he  has 
changed  his  way  of  living  so  that  he  is 
setting  an  example  in  upholding  the 
standards  of  this  Church. 

But  how  did  he  get  started  in  the  way 
of  righteousness?  His  grandmother  in 
one  of  our  stakes  was  concerned  about 
him,  because  his  mother  was  dead.  She 


First  Day 

wrote  a  letter  and  asked  if  we  would 
write  to  this  boy.  We  finally  located 
him,  and  the  first  letter  we  received 
told  how  he  was  in  California  and  heard 
two  missionaries  speaking  on  the  street 
corner  and  lady  missionaries  singing; 
and  he  said  he  wouldn't  have  gone  and 
spoken  to  them  for  anything  in  the 
world.  He  was  afraid.  He  drew  a  dia- 
gram showing  how  he  went  down  to 
the  corner  and  back  again,  and  then 
down  to  the  corner  and  back  again,  and 
finally  he  found  himself  standing  talk- 
ing to  the  missionaries.  In  his  letter  he 
asked:  "Do  you  think  the  Lord  had 
anything  to  do  with  this?"  As  far  as  I 
am  concerned  I  think  the  prayers  of  that 
grandmother  and  the  importunities  pro- 
bably of  his  mother  who  had  gone  be- 
yond, were  the  means  of  bringing  that 
boy  back  into  line  of  duty  and  right- 
eousness. 

God  help  us  to  labor  with  our  chil- 
dren, to  pray  with  them,  to  see  that  our 
own  are  setting  an  example  in  the 
Church.  It  will  do  more  than  all  the 
preaching  we  can  do.  God  help  us  to 
do  it.  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.    Amen. 


Elder  Harold  H.  Bennett  sang  a  solo,  "The  Seer." 
dent  John  Taylor). 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


( Words  by  Presi- 


Iwas  deeply  touched  by  the  address 
of  President  Grant,  which  was  read 
by  President  McKay  this  morning. 
On  the  day  that  President  Grant  was 
chosen  as  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
by  a  revelation  of  the  Lord  to  President 
John  Taylor,  my  father  was  also  called 
and  ordained  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  He  succeeded 
his  father,  President  Joseph  Young,  who 
was  ordained  to  his  position  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Kirtland 
Temple  in  February,  1835.  My  grand- 
father and  my  father  both  had  deep  and 
abiding  testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  was  restored 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  am 
grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  same  testi- 
mony, for  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world, 


and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  for  he  spoke  for  God  and  was 
sharer  of  God's  counsels.  He  was  the 
bearer  and  preacher  of  God's  Word, 
and  opened  one  of  the  greatest  stages  of 
religion  in  the  history  of  mankind. 

My  brethren  of  the  seventies,  we  are 
awakened  to  the  great  responsibilities 
of  teaching  the  gospel  to  all  mankind. 
If  ever  the  world  needed  the  Word  of 
God,  it  is  today.  For  this  reason  we 
must  have  vision,  which  gives  us  a  view 
of  the  future  as  well  as  insight  into  con- 
ditions of  the  present.  The  calling  of 
the  seventy  is  an  ideal  of  fellowship, 
with  sacred  obligations  to  God.  Our 
spiritual  obligations  must  make  for  unity 
and  concord,  and  promote  a  spiritual 
culture  within  our  ranks,  which  will 
give  us  power  to  teach  the  Word.  From 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


33 


now  on,  we  of  the  organizations  of  sev- 
enty will  glorify  our  work  as  never  be- 
fore, for  I  believe  that  the  world  is 
waiting  for  the  truths  of  God.  Every 
one  of  us  has  a  sacred  duty  and  trust, 
and  while  we  as  missionaries  have  our 
daily  vocations,  the  most  joyful  recrea- 
tion is  in  going  to  the  homes  of  people 
with  the  gospel  message.  Remember  the 
divine  injunction:  "Not  slothful  in  bus- 
iness, fervent  in  spirit,  serving  the 
Lord. "  Our  hearts  need  not  be  troubled 
or  afraid,  if  we  have  the  simple  faith  in 
God  and  the  work  He  has  given  us  to 
do.  We  remember  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Micah : 

...  in  the  last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass, 
that  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  it  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills; 
and  people  shall  flow  unto  it.  And  many 
nations  shall  come,  and  say,  Come,  let  us  go 
up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord.  . .  .  (Micah 
4:1-2) 

The  nations  have  come  to  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord,  and  they  will  continue 
to  come  and  be  taught  by  you,  my  breth- 
ren, for  the  prophet  continues  and  says: 

.  .  .  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into 
ploughshares,  and  their  spears  into  pruning- 
hooks:  nation  shall  not  lift  up  a  sword 
against  nation,  neither  shall  they  learn  war 
any  more.     (Micah  4:3) 

You  stake  mission  presidents  should 


call  your  brethren  around  you  and  teach 
the  gospel.  Remember  when  you  ap- 
proach people,  you  will  receive  from 
them  the  same  thought  that  you  give 
them.  If  hate,  you  will  receive  hate;  if 
love,  it  will  be  love.  God  will  be  the 
judge  of  institutions  and  people;  it  is 
your  duty  to  "love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  your  might,  mind,  and  strength, 
and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  In  his  let- 
ter to  the  Ephesians,  Paul  speaks  of  the 
grace  that  is  given  each  one: 

...  for  the  work  of  the  ministry  .  .  . 
Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith, 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God, 
unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the 
stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ.  (Ephe- 
sians 4:12-13) 

We  pray  that  the  missionaries  of  all 
the  stakes  of  Zion  will  from  now  on 
have  new  life.  We  must  turn  our 
thoughts  forward,  for  the  gospel  will 
meet  every  man's  wants,  and  protect 
and  guide  his  life.  You  will  see  your 
labors  rewarded.  Sowers  and  reapers 
will  rejoice  together.  You  are  com- 
mitted to  nothing  but  the  truth.  People 
will  listen  to  you.  God  bless  all  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  Church,  that  they  may 
see  the  importance  of  the  work  as  never 
before,  and  go  forth  with  the  Light  of 
God  in  their  hearts,  I  humbly  pray. 
Amen. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  singing  of  the  beautiful  hymn, 
"A  Poor  Wayfaring  Man  of 
Grief,"  followed  by  the  inspira- 
tional message  of  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent, and  then  the  solo  so  well  ren- 
dered by  Brother  Bennett,  "The  Seer, 
the  Seer,"  has  brought  us  all,  I  am  sure, 
nearer  to  our  Father  in  heaven — nearer 
to  many  of  our  loved  ones  who  are  on 
the  other  side.  I  am  very  grateful  to- 
day for  my  parents.  I  am  very  grate- 
ful that  I  have  been  considered  worthy 
to  be  associated  with  this  splendid 
body  of  men  bearing  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood and  am  especially  thankful  for 
my  rather  close  association  with  our 
beloved  president,  Heber  J.  Grant,  his 
counselors,  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 


and  the  other  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church.  I  appreciate  today,  more 
than  ever  before,  my  membership  in 
this  Church — the  great  organization  of 
the  Church — an  organization  which 
furnishes  not  only  just  a  favored  few 
but  all  the  members  the  opportunity  for 
service. 

I  am  very  happy  to  report  that  our 
members  in  the  European  mission  are 
also  still  carrying  on.  From  some  of 
them  we  have  not  been  able  to  hear 
lately  but  because  of  my  acquaintance 
with  them  and  my  love  for  them  I  am 
sure  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  they  are 
carrying  on  also  as  are  the  members 
from  whom  we  hear.  We  receive  let- 
ters  and   reports    regularly   from    the 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

British  Mission,  from  Sweden,  and 
from  Switzerland,  also  occasionally 
from  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission. 
Through  Sweden  we  have  been  able  to 
hear  from  Denmark  and  from  Nor- 
way, and  through  Switzerland,  from 
Belgium  and  from  Valence  in  the 
southern  part  of  France.  The  brethren 
and  sisters  are  holding  their  meetings  as 
usual:  sacrament,  Priesthood  and  aux- 
iliary meetings.  They  are  holding  their 
district  conferences;  they  have  held 
their  M.I.A.  June  conventions.  They 
also  celebrated  the  Relief  Society  Cen- 
tennial in  nearly  all  the  branches  on 
March  15th  and  17th.  Some  of  the 
missions  show  a  very  substantial  in- 
crease in  tithing  and  fast  offerings,  also 
baptisms.  The  following  is  taken  from 
a  recent  letter  from  the  French-Swiss 
District  with  headquarters  at  Neucha- 
tel,  Switzerland: 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letters 
dated  June  13th  and  July  28th  which  ar- 
rived within  a  fortnight  of  each  other.  Also 
the  May  Era  and  two  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zines; one  has  been  soaked  in  sea  water. 

The  District  Conference  will  be  held  in 
Geneva  branch  on  the  17th  and  18th  of 
October,  the  date  most  suitable  for  every- 
one. Some  will  come  out  of  military  service 
at  that  time,  and  just  after  some  will  go. 
The  branch  there  is  going  on  strong  and  we 
are  hoping  for  some  baptisms  in  the  near 
future.  Next  Saturday  we  shall  have  four 
or  five  baptisms  in  the  branch  of  Neuchatel. 

The  last  letter  from  Palestine-Syrian 
Mission,  among  other  things,  states: 

I  am  very  happy  I  hear  from  your  side 
and  I  can  write  to  you  all  my  desires,  that 
is  a  blessing  of  the  Lord  to  us.  All  mem- 
bers are  in  good  condition  in  present  time, 
but  wheat  that  we  bought  a  year  ago  is  fin- 
ished and  we  are  much  in  need  of  wheat, 
and  life  is  too  hard  to  live,  but  we  only 
trust  to  Lord  and  prayers  from  Zion  and  all 
will  be  well.  Some  members  can't  pay  for 
living,  and  the  wheat  we  give  to  them.  As 
far  as  we  hear  we  carry  on  in  gospel  and 
all  Saints  in  good  standing  in  faith. 

From  England  we  heard  this  sad 
news: 

Brother  John  Cook  and  his  family  have 
suffered  in  a  recent  air  raid.  The  incendi- 
aries destroyed  most  of  their  bedding  and 
linen.  We  have  sent  them  a  sum  of  ten 
pounds  to  meet  their  immediate  needs  and 


First  Day 

learn  that  the  government  has  also  given 
them  a  smaller  sum,  with  a  promise  of  furth- 
er help  towards  the  end  of  the  war.  Un- 
fortunately, the  cost  of  replacing  the  lost 
bedding  is  so  high  that  the  family  will  have 
to  deny  themselves  for  the  time  being. 
Nevertheless,  they  are  all  well  and  Brother 
Cook,  being  a  genealogist,  is  delighted  that 
all  his  records  and  papers  have  been  pre- 
served. 

The  British  Mission  is  doing  excep- 
tionally well  in  its  missionary  work. 

A  letter  from  Oslo,  Norway,  recent- 
ly came  by  way  of  Sweden.  Some  of 
our  letters  have  been  returned  since 
we  entered  the  war,  with  the  words 
printed  upon  them,  "Service  Suspended 
— Return  to  Sender,"  but  as  I  stated  we 
are  able  to  hear  through  Sweden  from 
the  other  Scandinavian  Missions  and 
through  Switzerland  from  some  of  the 
other  countries. 

This  letter  from  Oslo  informs  us, 
among  other  things,  that: 

The  Saints  are  still  faithful  in  paying 
their  tithes  and  offerings  so  we  are  well 
situated  financially.  We  have  had  six  bap- 
tismal services  this  year,  and  in  hopes  of 
having  more.  Our  mission  paper  Lys  Over 
Norge  is  published  as  before  and  comes  out 
regularly.  Nearly  all  the  branches  in  the 
mission  celebrated  the  Relief  Society  cen- 
tennial with  public  meetings  and  banquets 
on  March  the  15th  and  17th,  and  all  the 
places  had  a  very  fine  time.  The  lessons 
for  our  organizations  we  have  to  work  out 
ourselves  as  best  we  can,  as  we  can't  gel 
anything  from  the  headquarters.  How  long 
these  conditions  will  last  is  hard  to  tell,  but 
we  will  do  our  best  to  keep  everything  going 
till  we  get  regular  connections  with  you 
again.  We  trust  in  the  Lord  for  whom  we 
labour,  and  I  am  glad  for  the  many  blessings 
we  receive  from  Him. 

The  following  came  direct  from  the 
Danish  Mission,  via  the  Red  Cross: 

I  send  you  greetings  from  all  of  us.  We 
are  well,  safe  and  happy.  Extend  our  lov> 
and  best  wishes  to  all. 

This  is  from  the  Swedish  Mission: 

It  is  only  a  year  since  the  unemployment 
on  account  of  the  prevailing  shut-out  from 
other  nations  was  very  much  felt  in  out 
nation.  Now  the  condition  has  turned  the 
other  way  about,  and  the  outcry  for  lack  of 
laborers  is  heard  over  the  land.  There  is 
especially  a  deficiency  in  farm  help  and  also 
for  cutters  to  get  out  wood  from  the  forests 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


35 


This  condition  exists  probably  in  part  be- 
cause of  Sweden's  military  training  of  mec 
and  their  calling  to  encampments. 

With  regard  to  the  food  rationings,  they 
are  usually  sufficient,  and  it  is  of  inestimable 
value  that  such  an  important  article  of  con- 
sumption as  milk  is  still  on  the  free  list 
Vegetables  are  also  plentiful.  There  has 
been  a  further  downward  cut  in  the  meat 
rations,  but  the  procurement  of  fish  is  good. 

From  the  mission  viewpoint  the  activities 
are  singularly  lively,  compared  with  earllet 
periods.  An  especially  fine  unity  prevails, 
and  the  willingness  to  serve  is  great.  As 
regards  the  financial  situation  it  is  still  good, 
which  is  shown  by  the  means  of  the  mission 
having  nearly  doubled  in  comparison  with 
the  previous  year.  Even  the  branch  cash 
shows  a  balance  of  almost  twenty  percent 

The  Royal  Society  of  Social  Ad- 
ministration Index  shows  that  the  living 
cost  has  increased  forty  percent.  The 
tithing,  however,  shows  an  increase  iD 
1940  over  1939,  and  1941  over  1940 

And  the  following  paragraph  from 
a  letter  from  Beirut: 

We  receive  some  of  the  Church  publica- 
tions you  are  sending  and  by  reading  them 
we  understand  something  about  the  Church, 
and  especially  we  received  the  112th  Semi- 
annual Conference  Report,  and  we  are  ex- 
ceedingly glad  for  it.  Would  that  we  had 
a  chance  to  attend  a  Conference  like  that! 
From  it  we  are  receiving  a  lot  of  informa- 
tion and  advice  to  the  Saints  here  in  Beirut. 
The  lessons  sent  by  President  Amy  Brown 
Lyman  for  the  Relief  Society  sisters  were 
translated  and  delivered  to  the  sisters.  We 
get  a  lot  of  benefit  from  studying  them.  We 
receive  a  lot  of  lessons  and  high  ideals. 
We  were  also  exceedingly  glad  to  read  the 
report  of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  oi 
the  Society. 

At  present  our  thoughts  are  over  there, 
and  I  pray  that  in  another  year  we  will 
have  peace  with  us. 

All  our  members  in  these  war-torn 
countries  are  doing  their  best  to  carry 
on — God  bless  them.  They  appreciate 
the  gospel  and  know  that  by  living  its 
principles  they  can  have  joy  and  hap- 
piness even  in  these  trying  times.  They 
appreciate  the  prayers  of  you  brethren 
and  other  members  here  at  home,  and 
we  hope  that  you  will  continue  to  re- 
member them.  I  appreciate  very  much 
the  opportunity  that  I  have  of  contact- 
ing them  even  in  a  remote  way. 


I  appreciate  also  the  opportunity  of 
visiting  and  getting  better  acquainted 
with  you  brethren  in  your  various 
stakes.  I  congratulate  you  upon  the 
splendid  work  you  are  doing.  I  have 
enjoyed  my  visits  with  you  in  your 
homes.  Especially  have  I  appreciated 
the  flowers  and  shrubbery  around  these 
homes,  thanks  to  your  wives,  I  sup- 
pose, and  also  the  well  kept  grounds 
around  your  chapels.  I  commend  you 
for  that.  I  hope  you  will  observe  the 
beautiful  trees,  shrubbery  and  flowers 
here  on  these  sacred  tabernacle  grounds 
and  also  the  flowers  near  the  Church 
Office  Building  on  the  sides  and  es- 
pecially on  the  north  end. 

God  bless  you  brethren  for  the 
splendid  work  you  are  doing.  I  think 
I  have  detected,  however, .  a  little 
hesitancy,  on  the  part  of  some  with 
reference  to  the  Welfare  Plan.  You 
seem  afraid  of  it;  you  are  standing  on 
the  bank  shivering.  When  I  was  a  lit- 
tle boy,  there  was  a  group  of  us  fellows 
who  used  to  go  from  school  direct  to 
the  swimming  hole  instead  of  going 
home.  In  the  spring  we  could  hardly 
wait  for  the  snow  to  melt  before  hurry- 
ing to  our  swimming  place.  I  remem- 
ber one  spring  we  were  there  when 
there  was  still  snow  under  the  willows 
and  on  the  north  banks.  We  prepared 
for  the  dip.  Some  of  us  felt  of  the 
water  with  our  fingers,  then  with  our 
toes;  it  was  cold  and  the  air  was  chilly; 
we  remained  on  the  bank  shivering. 
There  was  one  boy  in  the  group,  how- 
ever, a  leader — he  has  always  been  a 
leader — who  didn't  touch  his  toe  to  the 
water,  nor  feel  of  it.  He  just  ducked 
under  and  enjoyed  the  swim.  Some 
of  us  went  home  without  ducking  un- 
der, and  naturally  we  didn't  enjoy  the 
swim. 

Well,  some  of  us  are  on  the  bank, 
hesitating  and  shivering  with  reference 
to  the  Welfare  Plan,  and  perhaps  some 
of  our  other  responsibilities  in  the 
Church.  Brethren,  let  me  advise  you 
to  duck  under  and  you  will  have  great 
joy  in  your  labors.  Give  to  this  wort 
the  best  you  have.  "Give  to  the  world 
the  best  you  have,  and  the  best  will 
come  back  to  you."    Look  for  the  good 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

and  the  beautiful,  and  the  good  and  the 
beautiful  will  also  come  back  to  you. 


First  Day 

God  help  us  to  do  this,  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name.     Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren,  that  the 
same  spirit  that  has  guided  and  in- 
spired those  who  have  spoken  to  us 
during  this  conference  may  guide  and 
direct  me  the  moment  or  two  that  I 
stand  before  you. 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  with 
the  spirit  of  prophecy  and  revelation 
that  has  characterized  this  conference. 
And  why  shouldn't  there  be  a  spirit  of 
prophecy  and  revelation?  For  we  de- 
clare to  the  world,  "We  believe  all  that 
God  has  revealed,  all  that  He  does  now 
reveal,  and  we  believe  that  He  will  yet 
reveal  many  great  and  important  things 
pertaining  to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

This  declaration  of  faith  is  wholly 
consistent  and  compatible  with  the 
Lord's  dealing  with  His  children  on  the 
earth  whenever  the  Priesthood  has  been 
bestowed  upon  men.  Declared  Amos 
of  ancient  times,  "Surely  the  Lord  God 
will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his 
secret  unto  his  servants  the  prophets." 
(Amos  3:7)  The  writer  of  Proverbs 
declared,  "Where  there  is  no  vision, 
the  people  perish."  (Prov.  29:18) 

It  is  needless  to  go  into  the  annals  of 
history  to  prove  definitely  that  where 
there  has  been  no  vision,  no  revelation, 
and  no  prophecy,  the  people  have  in- 
deed perished.  In  the  days  of  Moses 
and  Isaiah,  Ezekiel,  Daniel,  Peter,  and 
Paul,  revelation  was  in  the  present 
tense.  Consequently  doubters,  disbe- 
lievers, critics,  and  those  who  stoned 
the  prophets,  were  to  be  found  in  great 
numbers,  and  time  alone  has  proved 
the  validity  and  the  authenticity  of  the 
revelations  of  the  Most  High  to  His 
servants  in  all  dispensations. 

We  declare  to  the  world  that  we  do 
not  only  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed but  we  believe  that  He  does 
now  reveal  His  mind  and  will  to  those 
who  are  His  chosen  servants  upon  the 
earth  today.  And  yet  there  are  those 
who  propound  this  question:  What  of 
present-day  revelations?  Is  God  actual- 
ly revealing  His  mind  and  will  to  those 


who  guide  and  direct  the  destiny  of  His 
Church?  To  such  I  would  say  that  they 
are  seekers  of  a  sign,  and  as  the  writer 
of  Proverbs  says, '  The  fear  of  the  Lord 
is  the  beginning  of  knowledge:  but 
fools  despise  wisdom  and  instruction." 
(Prov.  1:7)  We  can  point  out  many 
instances  wherein  the  Lord  is  revealing 
His  mind  and  will  to  those  who  have 
been  anointed  to  guide  and  direct  the 
destiny  of  this  great  work. 

Seven  years  have  elapsed  since  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  requested 
stakes,  wards,  and  Priesthood  quorums 
to  set  in  motion  the  great  Welfare 
Program,  Well  do  I  recall  there  were 
those  among  us  who  doubted  that  such 
a  plan  was  necessary  and  feasible.  For, 
on  one  hand,  those  in  governmental 
positions  advised  and  counseled  the 
people  to  destroy  food  surpluses. 
Farmers  were  paid  for  crops  that  were 
not  produced.  And  yet  in  the  face  of 
such  counsel  and  advice  the  leadership 
of  the  Church  admonished  us  to  pro- 
duce greater  abundances  of  foods  and 
to  erect  storehouses  wherein  this  food 
could  be  stored.  There  have  since  been 
erected  milk-processing  plants,  grain 
elevators,  and  sewing  centers  which  af- 
ford sufficient  food,  fuel,  clothing,  and 
shelter  to  care  for  every  worthy  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  in  case  of  an  emer- 
gency. 

Seven  years  of  plenty,  of  abundance, 
are  about  to  come  to  an  end,  and  we 
may  face  seven  years  of  leanness  and 
the  possibility  of  famine.  The  best  au- 
thorities in  the  United  States  are  now 
indicating  that  a  food  shortage  for  the 
year  1943  is  not  a  remote  possibility 
due  to  several  conditions,  too  many  to 
enumerate  at  this  time.  In  retrospect 
we  can  all  go  back  in  our  minds  and 
consider  the  counsel  of  the  brethren 
with  reference  to  this  matter  and  ob- 
serve present-day  conditions,  which 
definitely  prove  that  the  Welfare  Pro- 
qram  was  the  mind  and  the  will  of.  the 
Lord  made  known  through  the  power 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


37 


of  inspiration  and  modern-day  revela- 
tion to  His  people.  With  the  passing 
of  time,  as  was  the  case  with  the  declar- 
ations given  Moses  on  Sinai  for  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel,  the  leadership  of  this  peo- 
ple will  be  vindicated  in  all  of  their  ad- 
monishments to  the  people,  and  man 
will  again  be  convinced  that  the  Lord 
has  and  does  reveal  His  mind  and  will 
to  the  prophets  of  modern  times. 

The  message  of  the  First  Presidency 
delivered  to  the  people  in  April  of  this 
year  and  the  message  delivered  this 
morning  are  revelations  to  the  people, 
for  they  contain  all  of  those  great  truths 
which  are  compatible  with  the  mind 
and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I 
am  grateful  to  say  that  when  instruc- 
tions are  given  by  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church  and  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  there  comes  to  mind  the  reve- 
lation given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  wherein  the  Lord  had  this  to  say 
when  His  servants  spoke  to  the  people: 
"And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  .  .  .  shall  be  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  and  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation." (Doc.  &  Cov.  68:4)  There 
is  a  test  for  modern-day  revelation,  the 
same  test  Jesus  Christ  invited  those 
who  heard  His  teachings  to  apply,  for 
said  He:  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but 
his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine 


whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself."    (John  7:16-17) 

As  leaders  in  Israel,  brethren,  we 
should  accept  wholeheartedly  modern- 
day  revelation  as  presented  to  the  peo- 
ple by  His  chosen  servants,  applying 
it  in  our  lives  to  the  end  that  we  shall 
be  a  shining  example  to  all  of  those 
who  come  under  our  direction — ad- 
monishing the  people  that  they,  too, 
can  know  of  the  doctrine,  modern-day 
revelation,  by  following  the  admoni- 
tion of  the  Lord  when  He  declared: 
"Therefore,  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you 
shall  receive;  if  you  will  knock  it  shall 
be  opened  unto  you.  Now,  as  you  have 
asked,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  keep  my 
commandments,  and  seek  to  bring  forth 
and  establish  the  cause  of  Zion.  Seek 
not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom;  and, 
behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall  be 
unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you 
be  made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath 
eternal  life  is  rich."  (Doc.  &  Cov.  11: 
5-7)  And  eternal  life  can  only  be 
achieved,  brethren,  not  alone  by  obey- 
ing the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  by  hearkening 
unto  the  advice  and  counsel  of  those 
who  are  in  authority  that  come  to  us 
as  modern-day  revelation. 

May  God  bless  us,  strengthen  us, 
that  we  may  ever  be  loyal  and  devoted 
to  these  servants  of  the  Lord,  sustaining 
them  in  all  that  they  request  us  to  do, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F,  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren,  this  is  a  remarkable  gath- 
ering, the  first  that  I  have  known 
about  in  the  history  of  the  Church : 
a  session  of  a  general  conference  com- 
posed entirely  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  in  the  stakes  and  wards  and 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  quorums  in  the 
Church.  Perhaps  a  larger  percentage 
of  these  officers  named  are  here  than 
ever  before. 

I  was  recently  asked  if,  in  my  opinion, 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  quorums 
were  making  progress.  That  took  me 
back   in   memory   thirty-one   to    forty 


years  ago  when,  as  a  seventy,  a  mem- 
ber of  two  different  quorums,  one  the 
Third  Quorum  of  Seventy  of  which 
Brother  George  Albert  Smith  was  also 
a  member,  when  we  felt  we  were  doing 
our  full  duty  as  seventies  if  we  met 
once  a  month  with  our  quorum  and 
there  participated  in  the  class  work 
along  lines  furnished  by  President  B. 
H.  Roberts.  Since  that  day  we  have 
gone  a  long  way.  We  have  come  to 
appreciate  that  Priesthood  means  activ- 
ity— that  a  quorum  organization  is  a 
group  of  brethren  banded  together  in 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  3 

order  to  do  things,  not  merely  to  study 
about  things.  We  stand  foremost  in 
advocating  that  faith  alone  will  not 
save.  Works  are  necessary,  and  no 
man  can  do  his  full  duty  in  any  Priest- 
hood capacity,  member  or  official,  in 
any  quorum  who  is  content  to  sit  on  his 
seat  and  listen  only.  He  must  be  on 
his  toes  doing  things. 

I  was  thrilled  and  thrilled  with  the 
message  of  the  First  Presidency  this 
morning  as  it  was  delivered  by  Presi- 
dent Clark.  There  were  some  things  in 
there  relative  to  Priesthood  that  are 
dear  to  those  that  are  trying  to  help 
Priesthood  quorums  in  their  work.  Pres- 
ident Clark  referred  to  the  family,  what 
it  should  do  if  it  had  an  absent  member 
in  the  armed  forces  of  the  country,  and 
he  referred  to  the  quorums.  Now, 
brethren,  may  I  say  that  as  President 
Clark  indicated,  any  family  that  does 
not  communicate  frequently,  weekly,  he 
said,  with  its  member,  is  failing  in  its 
duty.  Any  quorum,  we  believe,  and  any 
bishop  at  the  head  of  the  priests'  quorum 
who  does  not  write  or  have  letters  writ- 
ten monthly  on  behalf  of  the  quorum 
to  the  ones  that  are  absent,  is  fail- 
ing also  in  his  duty.  Brethren,  all  we 
need  to  do  is  to  travel  about  the  coun- 
try on  the  crowded  trains,  keep  our 
eyes  and  our  ears  open,  contact  men 
in  uniform  here  and  there,  and  lis- 
ten to  the  stories  of  those  of  our 
own  boys  who  have  been  in  the  camps 
to  know  that  these  boys  are  faced  with 
situations  more  tempting,  more  trying, 
more  severe,  than  they  have  ever  before 
faced  in  their  lives;  and  would  any  quo- 
rum permit  any  man,  any  member  of 
that  quorum,  to  be  without  the  assist- 
ance that  quorum  can  give?  If  the  of- 
ficers of  any  quorum  fail  in  seeing  that 
that  is  done,  they  have  failed  in  one  of 
their  duties,  I  verily  believe. 

\\7e  have  heard  this  afternoon  about 
™  missionary  work.  May  I  say, 
brethren,  we  are  all  called  to  be  mis- 
sionaries. The  members  of  the  Church 
are  all  called  to  be  missionaries,  not 
necessarily  to  give  our  time  to  pro- 
claiming the  word,  the  message  of 
Mormonism,  which  is  defined  as  the 
restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its 


First  Dag 

fulness,  but  we  are  called  upon  to  be 
effective  missionaries  and  perhaps  the 
most  effective  missionaries  it  is  possible 
for  us  to  be,  by  being  true  in  our  lives 
to  the  faith  that  we  profess,  and  this  is 
not  an  easy  thing.  Perhaps  never  be- 
fore in  the  history  of  the  human  family, 
has  the  tempter  had  such  power  as  he 
has  today.  Perhaps  never  before,  cer- 
tainly not  since  I  have  known  anything 
about  history,  I  believe,  have  the  moral 
standards  of  the  people  become  so  low, 
as  judged  by  our  standards  and  our 
points  of  view,  as  they  are  today.  You 
travel  about  on  the  trains.  It  used  to  be 
that  if  one  wanted  to  smoke  he  retired 
to  certain  compartments,  certain  cars, 
certain  places  in  the  train.  Nowadays 
it  doesn't  make  any  difference  where 
you  are,  the  air  is  blue  with  smoke,  men 
and  women  alike  puffing — mothers, 
grandmothers — I  have  seen  them — 
mothers  with  small  children  puffing  to- 
bacco smoke.  It  makes  you  sick.  And 
what  else  do  they  do?  Brethren  and 
sisters,  President  Clark  spoke  of  the 
evils  of  drink.  They  are  openly,  in 
these  trains,  everywhere  drinking  their 
liquor.  Now  the  conditions  that  pre- 
vail in  the  camps,  the  cantonments,  and 
the  places  where  our  boys  in  uniform 
are  working  and  training,  are  the  con- 
ditions that  are  set  according  to  the 
standards  of  a  sinful  world,  and  our 
boys  are  there.  Will  we  try  to  help 
this  situation?  Will  we  try  to  get  those 
boys — and  there  are  hundreds  of  them 
who  have  returned  from  foreign  mis- 
sions— so  impressed  that  they  will  feel 
obligated  to  continue  their  missionary 
work  by  living  according  to  the  teach- 
ings and  standards  of  the  Church?  We 
must  do  this,  brethren.  We  must  do  it 
or  fail  in  a  duty. 

Now,  may  I  say  that  all  of  us  here 
know  absolutely,  undoubtedly  we  know 
absolutely,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  If  the  work  of  the  Lord  lags,  it 
is  because  we  are  lagging  in  our  duty. 
If  the  work  of  the  Lord  fails,  it  is  be- 
cause we  fail  in  our  duty;  but  to  fail 
in  our  duty  is  to  do  something  in  the 
light  of  our  testimony  that  is  positively 
absurd,  perfectly  ridiculous,  absolutely 
foolish;  to  know  that  this  is  the  work  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  39 

the  Lord  and  that  the  plan  we  teach  is  according  to  the  plan  we  teach.    To  be 

the  plan  that  will  lead  into  the  celestial  sure,  the  plan  we  teach,  if  followed,  will 

kingdom  if  we  follow  it  unto  the  very  yield  more  joy,  more  satisfaction,  more 

end,  and  then  deliberately,  through  our  real  pleasure  in  life  than  any  other;  but 

foolishness,     through     our     weakness,  yet,  we  must  remember  that  it  isn't  easy 

through    our    indifference,    st£p    aside  to  live  that  plan,  because  of  our  environ- 

from  that  plan,  out  of  the  path,  and  thus  ment,  because  of  our  temptations,  be- 

endanger  our  admittance  into  the  celes-  cause  of  our  weaknesses, 

tial  kingdom  and  therefore  endanger  our  I  pray  God  that  He  will  help  us — 

achieving  the  great  reward  that  we  will  that  He  will  strengthen  us,  will  give  us 

receive  if  we  are  true  and  faithful,  is  to  wisdom  and  strength  and  courage  and 

do  something  that  in  the  light  of  ration-  all  that  we  need  to  keep  us  active  in  His 

ality  is  perfectly  absurd,  knowing  that  work,  that  we  may  realize  the  joys  that 

the  gospel  is  true.     But,  brethren,  we  come  to  us  as  a  result  of  obedience  and 

are  in  a  world  of  temptation.    We  must  faithfulness,  and  I  ask  it  all  in  the  name 

not  get  an  idea  that  it  is  easy  to  live  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Tomorrow  afternoon,  in  this  building,  will  be  held  one  of  the  greatest 
Fast  meetings  possibly  ever  held  in  the  Church  or  in  the  world.  To  aid  in 
carrying  that  forward  with  the  least  possible  friction  we  now  ask  some  of 
the  Presidents  of  High  Priests  Quorums  to  come  forward  immediately  fol- 
lowing the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  to  receive  some  definite  instructions. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 
President  Walter  Miller  of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  o'clock  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at  7  o'clock 
p.m.,  Saturday  evening,  October  3. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  conducted  the  services,  announced 
that  the  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Leslie  F.  Merrill,  President  of  the  Franklin  Stake. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  In  A  Mysterious 
Way." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  you  will  notice,  is  leading  the  singing  to- 
night; Elder  Wade  N.  Stephens  is  at  the  organ. 

Under  the  direction  or  advice  of  his  physician  President  Grant  has 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3  ,         First  Day 

taken  a  rest  this  afternoon  and  in  all  probability  will  not  be  with  us  tonight. 
We  feel  that  he  is  wise  in  thus  conserving  his  strength. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Wiile  sitting  here  upon  the  stand, 
realizing  that  I  might  be  called 
upon  to  speak,  I  have  wondered 
what  I  might  be  able  to  say  that  would 
be  germane  to  this  occasion,  something 
in  which  we  might  all  be  interested  and 
possibly  be  profited.  I  have  come  to 
this  conclusion,  brethren,  that  everyone 
of  us  is  a  candidate  for  the  blessings  of 
eternal  life  and  exaltation,  and  that 
nothing  short  of  a  fulness  of  glory  will 
satisfy  us  after  this  life.  That  suggests 
that  we  have  something  to  do  while  we 
live  here  upon  the  earth  and  should  not 
forget  the  purpose  of  our  being  here — 
the  goal  of  our  existence  and  that  which 
we  desire  to  attain.  And  if  we  attain 
eternal  life,  brethren  of  the  Priesthood, 
it  will  be  through  the  Church  and  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  with  the  Holy 
Priesthood. 

The  Savior  said  to  Nicodemus,  a 
ruler  of  the  Jews,  "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
We  are  all  on  common  ground  again  in 
that  we  have,  all  of  us,  been  born  again 
of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit  and  have 
entered  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth 
and  have  received  our  membership  in 
this  way.  Where  we  have  received 
blessings  of  this  character  from  the 
Lord,  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gos- 
pel, there  is  always  a  covenant  of  faith- 
fulness attached.  And  so  we  might  ask 
what  is  the  covenant  that  we  have  en- 
tered into  in  receiving  the  gospel.  I  can 
say  for  myself  when  I  received  baptism 
I  was  placed  under  a  covenant  that  I 
would  henceforth  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  as  fast  as  they  are  made 
known  unto  me.  This  was  done  with 
uplifted  hand  before  God,  angels,  and 
witnesses  present. 

I  do  not  know  to  what  extent  that 
practice  obtained  in  the  Church  or  how 
long  since  it  obtained  in  that  particular 
ward  where  I  was  born  and  where  I 
was  baptized,  but  I  have  reached  this 


conclusion,  brethren,  that  every  person 
that  has  been  baptized  into  this  Church 
has  received  this  covenant  or  has  made 
this  covenant,  if  not  verbally,  the  very 
fact  of  accepting  the  gospel  through 
baptism,  and  confirmation,  has  made 
this  covenant.  That  responsibility  rests 
upon  every  member  of  the  Church.  We 
hear  people,  sometimes,  in  praying,  ask 
the  Lord  to  help  us  to  keep  the  cove- 
nants that  we  have  made  at  the  waters 
of  baptism.  I  know  of  no  other  cove- 
nant that  we  have  made  in  entering  the 
Church  through  baptism,  and  that  is 
very  important,  brethren.  The  gospel, 
with  our  membership  in  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  here  on  earth,  is  one 
of  the  greatest  blessings  that  our  Father 
in  heaven  has  to  give,  and  necessarily 
a  solemn  covenant  of  faithfulness  should 
be  exacted. 

•  Another  thing,  we  all  hold  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood.  In  this  we  are  on 
common  ground;  and  in  receiving  this 
Priesthood  on  the  same  principle  we 
have  entered  into  a  solemn  oath  and 
covenant  with  God  our  Father  that  we 
will  magnify  that  Priesthood,  and  He 
with  us,  that  all  He  has  shall  be  given 
unto  us.  Most  of  these  brethren  hold 
offices  that  grow  out  of  the  Priesthood, 
and  in  order  to  magnify  the  Priesthood 
we  will  have  to  magnify  these  offices 
which  we  hold. 

We  have  had  the  privilege  and  many 
of  us  have  accepted  the  privilege  of  go- 
ing to  the  temple  and  receiving  the  holy 
endowments,  and  there  we  are  told  that 
they  are  to  prepare  us  to  enter  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  and  to  receive  an  ex- 
altation therein.  But  we  have  to  enter 
into  covenants  of  faithfulness;  and  any 
man  who  desires  to  be  faithful  and  in- 
tends to  be  faithful  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God  will  not  be  afraid 
to  make  covenants  of  faithfulness.  Now 
be  it  known  that  a  man  cannot  go  to  the 
temple  to  receive  those  endowments  un- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


41 


til  he  has  received  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  and  that  makes  the  receiving 
of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  a  condi- 
tion of  salvation,  to  every  male  member 
of  the  Church.  We  have  had  the  privi- 
lege, many  of  us,  of  going  to  the  temple, 
having  first  received  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  and  receive  certain  sealing 
ordinances  there,  entering  into  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage, 
and  it  is  in  that  covenant  that  the  great- 
est blessings  that  our  Father  has  to  give 
to  us  are  given.  Those  who  have  at- 
tained those  higher  blessings,  that  is 
husband  and  wife  sealed  for  time  and 


eternity,  they  are  to  have  an  offspring, 
an  eternal  increase.  It  is  unthinkable 
that  that  condition  could  be  obtained 
outside  of  the  marriage  relations  that  the 
Lord  hath  ordained.  Priesthood  is  nec- 
essary in  order  to  receive  those  bless- 
ings. We  ought  then,  brethren,  to  ap- 
preciate this  Priesthood  which  God  has 
permitted  us  to  hold  and  keep  all  the 
covenants  we  have  entered  into  with  the 
Lord,  and  be  prepared  for  that  which 
we  hope  to  receive  when  we  have  fin- 
ished this  brief  period  upon  this  earth. 
May  God  help  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Almost  every  day  we  hear  it  said, 
or  read  it,  that  we  are  living  in  a 
changing  world.  I  don't  believe 
many  of  the  people  who  use  that  phrase 
have  any  very  clear  idea  about  what 
they  mean  by  it.  It  sounds  good, 
seeming  to  imply  a  penetrating  insight 
into  the  portent  of  the  times,  no  matter 
how  nebulous  or  muddy  the  thinking 
behind  it  may  be,  so  it  is  freely  used. 

But  I  don't  want  to  talk  about  that. 
A  companion  phrase  is  that  we  can't 
go  back — we'll  never  go  back  to  things 
as  they  were  before.  Well,  the  man 
who  finds  himself  finally  hanged  on  the 
gallows  is  the  man  who,  when  he  got 
started  off  wrong,  wouldn't  go  back. 
My  judgment  is  that  when  we  get 
started  on  the  wrong  way  the  sooner 
we  turn  back  the  better.  The  whole 
doctrine  of  repentance  assumes  a  turn- 
ing back  from  wrong  to  right. 

But  I  don't  want  to  go  into  that, 
either.  I  merely  want  to  remind  you 
that,  amid  all  the  changes  in  an  ever- 
changing  world  there  are  some  immut- 
able things  which  do  not  change.  They 
are  as  steadfast  and  unchanging  as  the 
heavens,  which  are  the  same  now  as 
when  the  first  man  looked  out  upon 
them.  They  are  the  basis  of  the  moral 
order  of  the  world  which  is  the  founda- 
tion upon  which  our  civilization  itself 
is  built.  The  task  of  today  is  to  pre- 
serve, though  all  else  change,  man's  al- 


legiance,   unshaken,    to    those    eternal 
foundations. 

The  Ten  Commandments,  for  in- 
stance. They  cannot  be  abrogated 
without  abrogating  the  moral  order  of 
the  world,  shaking  down  the  very  foun- 
dations upon  which  our  civilization 
rests.  They  set  forth  the  law  of  life 
and  can  never  be  outmoded  or  rendered 
obsolete  while  life  endures.  They  are  of 
just  as  much  binding  force  today  as  they 
were  on  the  day  when  they  were  spoken 
with  the  voice  of  thunder  out  of  the 
clouds  on  Sinai.  They  can  no  mere 
be  violated  without  disastrous  conse- 
quences than  one  can  violate  any  law 
governing  in  the  physical  world  with- 
out being  visited  with  the  inescapable 
penalty. 

A  s  I  listened  to  the  powerful  message 
of  the  Presidency,  delivered  this 
morning,  I  was  impressed  with  the  im- 
portance of  that  idea.  From  that  mes- 
sage, if  we  were  attentive  to  it,  we 
learned  that  as  to  basic  things  there  is 
no  middle  ground.  Either  we  live  by 
them  or  we  pay  the  penalty  of  de- 
parture from  their  inexorable  com- 
mands. They  are  not  subject  to  modi- 
fication or  interpretation,  but  stand 
wholly  as  given,  to  be  accepted  in  whole 
and  lived  completely. 

It  is  the  same  with  the  basic  things 
upon  which  we  have  rested  our  faith. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Either  a  thing  is,  or  it  is  not.  To  il- 
lustrate: This  Church  is  founded  upon 
the  proposition  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  God,  that  through  His  mediation 
it  became  possible  for  us  to  attain  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life.  We  cannot 
deviate  from  that.  He  is  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God,  the  author  of  our  salva- 
tion, and  must  be  accepted  in  that  light 
solely  and  completely.  The  whole 
structure  of  our  own  Church  revolves 
about  that  basic  fact.  We  say  that  the 
God  of  heaven  came  down  in  answer 
to  the  prayer  of  a  boy  and  that  He 
brought  with  Him  a  personage  whom 
He  introduced  as  His  son,  and  He  com- 
manded that  praying  boy  to  hear  His 
Son.  And  out  of  the  teachings  which 
were  then  given,  and  followed  up  by 
subsequent  instructions,  this  Church 
was  established.  Now,  that  admits  of 
no  explanation,  of  no  modification. 
Either  those  things  happened   or  they 


First  Dag 

did  not  happen.  There  is  no  middle 
ground;  and  if  they  did  not  happen  then 
we  have  nothing,  because  our  whole 
structure  is  foundationed  upon  that  as- 
sumed fact.  We  accept  it  as  a  fact,  and 
we  may  not  temporize  with  it,  try  to 
explain  it  away,  modify  it,  or  liberalize 
about  it.  It  stands  as  the  basic  thing 
upon  which  our  whole  faith  is  founded. 
And  our  whole  system  of  belief  exacts 
of  us  that  we  accept  those  basic  truths, 
without  modification  or  change.  As 
with  the  moral  order  of  the  world  so 
those  things  may  not  be  changed.  They 
are  as  binding  today  as  when  they  were 
first  declared  by  the  voice  of  God  out 
of  the  heavens,  and  they  will  never 
change. 

May  God  grant  that  we  may  hold 
steadfastly  to  them  and  that  we  may 
order  our  lives  so  that  we  shall  not  find 
occasions  to  depart  from  them,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal 
priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple; that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises 
of  him  who  hath  called  you  out  of  dark- 
ness into  his  marvelous  light.  (I  Peter  2:9) 

No  one  can  look  into  the  faces  of 
this  extraordinary  body  of  men 
and  partake  of  the  spirit  present 
without  being  conscious  that  there  is 
here  a  power  not  usually  felt  in  gather- 
ings of  like  numbers. 

The  source  of  this  power  is,  of 
course,  the  Priesthood.  Each  of  us 
bearing  the  Priesthood,  as  we  do,  there 
should  be  power  in  our  gatherings,  for 
as  Peter  wrote  to  the  Saints  in  his  day, 
so  with  equal  truth  it  may  be  said  of 
us,  we  "are  a  chosen  generation,  a  roy- 
al Priesthood,"  and  it  is  our  calling 
and  opportunity  to  "shew  forth  the 
praises  of  him  who  hath  called  us  out 
of  darkness  unto  his  marvelous  light." 
All  who  have  received  the  gospel 
have  come  from  darkness  into  light, 
but  we,  who  have  been  invited  to  this 
conference,  have  been  called,  also,  to 
leadership  in  the  Priesthood;  to  be  of- 
ficers in  the  government  of  God;  to  re- 


sponsibility in  a  well-defined  field  of 
action  in  which  no  one  else  can  func- 
tion so  long  as  we  hold  the  appoint- 
ment. 

Yesterday,  the  responsibility  of  lead- 
ership was  borne  by  our  fathers;  to- 
morrow, it  will  rest  upon  our  children; 
today,  it  is  ours.  It  is  now  that '  we 
should  feel  the  weight  of  our  callings. 

As  we  labor  in  the  Church,  two  ob- 
servations force  themselves  upon  us. 
One  is  that  there  is  great  strength  and 
devotion  among  the  membership  of  the 
Church.  No  one  can  visit  among  the 
branches,  wards,  and  stakes  and  see  the 
amount  of  work  that  is  done  and  the 
time  freely  given  to  service  in  the  ac- 
tivities of  the  Priesthood  quorums  and 
auxiliaries  without  being  impressed 
with  this  strength  and  devotion.  It 
makes  one,  with  the  spirit  of  this  lat- 
ter-day work,  thrill  to  be  a  part  of  it. 

The  other  observation  is  of  quite  a 
different  nature.  It  comes  when  the 
individual  records  of  members  are  ex- 
amined. They  show  that  in  nearly 
every  Priesthood  quorum  in  the 
Church  there  is  a  large  percentage  of 
our  brethren  'who  count  the  high  honor 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


43 


of  being  ordained  to  the  Priesthood  as 
a  thing  of  naught;  who  enjoy  not  its 
blessings  because  they  magnify  not 
their  callings.  If  they  continue  in  their 
course,  they  stand  in  jeopardy  of  losing 
their  right  to  the  Priesthood. 

I  call  these  well-known  facts  to 
your  attention,  because  I  am  persuaded 
that  if  this  great  host  of  inactive  breth- 
ren are  ever  to  be  awakened,  if  they 
are  ever  to  be  called  again  "out  of 
darkness  into  His  marvelous  light,"  it 
must  be  done  by  more  effective  action 
on  the  part  of  Priesthod  quorum  presi- 
dencies and  their  committees. 

HThe  Priesthood  quorum  is  an  indis- 
A  pensable  unit  of  the  Church.  The 
presidencies  of  Priesthood  quorums 
have  the  responsibility  to  see  that  every 
member  of  their  quorums  honors  his 
calling  in  the  Priesthood,  and  they,  with 
their  quorum  committees,  can  labor 
with  every  member  if  they  but  have 
"the  will  so  to  do."  Instructions  as  to 
how  to  proceed  have  been  and  will  be 
given.  They  should  be  studied  and 
followed,  in  order  that  our  activities 
may  be  purposeful;  but  no  instructions, 
and  no  program,  can  take  the  place  of 
"A  Will  To  Do." 

We  Priesthood  officers  must  shake 
off  our  apathy.  With  the  prize  of  eter- 
nal life  for  our  brethren  and  ourselves 
at  stake,  we  must  not  falter.  The  Priest- 
hood we  bear  is  not  of  men.  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  received  it  direct 
from  heavenly  messengers.  He  was  in- 
structed by  them,  and  he  labored  with 
all  the  energy  of  his  soul  to  carry  out 
those  instructions. 

We  bear  the  same  Priesthood  he 
bore;  we  are  called  to  service  in  that 
Priesthood  as  was  he;  and  we  must 
discharge  the  responsibilities  laid  upon 
us  in  like  manner,  if  we  would  share 
with  him  in  the  rewards.  Unto  us  the 
Lord  has  said: 

Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his 
duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which  he  is 
appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that  learns  not  his 
duty  and  shows  himself  not  approved  shall 
not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand.  (D.  &  C. 
107:99-100) 

Would    that    every    officer    in    the 


Priesthood  quorums  could  approach 
his  labors  with  the  spirit  and  determina- 
tion of  Nephi.  When  his  brothers 
murmured  about  going  for  the  brass 
plates,  saying  it  was  a  hard  thing  that 
was  required  of  them,  he  said  to  his 
father : 

I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the 
Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that  the 
Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way 
for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the 
thing  which  he  commandeth  them.  (I  Nephi 
3:7) 

Then  after  Laman's  futile  attempt  to 
obtain  the  plates,  and  he  and  Lemuel 
were  about  to  return  to  their  father, 
Nephi  said: 

As  the  Lord  liveth,  and  as  we  live,  we  will 
not  go  down  unto  our  father  in  the  wilder- 
ness until  we  have  accomplished  the  thing 
which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  us.  (I 
Nephi  3:15) 

Observe  that  he  did  not  complain 
that  the  assignment  was  difficult,  that 
he  had  other  work  which  took  all  his 
time,  that  they  had  done  the  best  they 
could,  nor  that  they  had  called  on 
Laban  once  and  that  it  would  be  use- 
less to  call  on  him  again.  What  he  said 
was  that,  "As  the  Lord  liveth  ...  we 
will  not  go  .  .  .  until  we  have  accom- 
plished the  thing  which  the  Lord  hath 
commanded  us." 

'T'he  manner  in  which  he  obtained  the 
A  plates  is  a  familiar  story,  as  is  the 
manner  in  which  he  obtained  wild  game 
for  food  when  all  their  bows  were 
broken.  Everything  he  set  his  hand 
to  do  in  righteousness,  he  accomplished. 
Why?  Because  he  had  the  faith,  and  the 
courage,  and  the  "will  to  do"  what  the 
Lord  required  of  him,  until  finally  he 
could  say,  when  his  brothers  ridiculed 
him  for  undertaking  to  build  the  ship: 

If  God  had  commanded  me  to  do  all 
things,  I  could  do  them.  If  he  should  com- 
mand me  that  I  should  say  unto  this  water, 
be  thou  earth,  it  would  be  earth;  and  if  I 
should  say  it,  it  would  be  done.  (I  Nephi 
17:50) 

The  Lord  help  us,  in  this  Priesthood 
quorum  activity,  to  approach  our  work 
with  the  spirit  of  Nephi,  that  we  may 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

indeed  be  "  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal 
Priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar 
people";  and  that  we  may  by  our  works 


First  Day 

"shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who 
hath  called"  us  "out  of  darkness  into 
his  marvelous  light,"  I  pray. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Throughout  the  precious  message 
we  received  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  spirit  of  Isaiah  and 
Jeremiah,  like  a  golden  thread,  was  in 
evidence.  A  true  prophet  is  never 
popular,  because  he  reproves  and  de- 
nounces, with  equal  vigor  and  equal 
impartiality  and  justice,  the  iniquities  of 
the  rich  and  the  unrighteousness  of  the 
poor. 

In  this  solemn  and  troubled  hour  there 
is  an  urgent  need  for  the  people  every- 
where to  rededicate  themselves  to  God, 
home,  and  country.  The  world  is  wan- 
dering in  the  wilderness  because  it  is  not 
baptized  into  the  obedience  that  makes 
men  free.  We  have  been  walking 
proudly,  with  assumed  confidence,  as 
though  we  were  on  adamant  or  the 
foundations  of  the  world.  Really  we 
have  been  rolling  along  on  parchment 
beneath  which  glowed  a  lake  of  fire. 
Lo,  we  have  plunged  into  the  inferno, 
this  terrible  inferno  of  war. 

Joshua,  the  great  ruler  in  Israel,  re- 
dedicated  himself  in  this  way:  "Choose 
you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve; . . .  but 
as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve 
the  Lord."  If  this  nation  would  refresh 
its  soul  with  this  reconsecration,  if  the 
world  would  awaken  and  free  itself 
from  the  fearful  enslavement  of  sin,  then 
the  peace  of  Christ  would  dawn  upon 
the  world,  and  men,  instead  of  killing 
each  other,  would  love  and  save  their 
brothers. 

As  I  regard  it,  the  home  is  the  funda- 
mental, essential  unit  of  civilized  so- 
ciety. For  the  instruction  of  our  chil- 
dren we  are  depending  too  much  on  our 
Sunday  Schools,  Primaries,  and  other 
auxiliary  associations,  yea,  and  on  the 
day  school.  We  are  willing  that  our 
children  should  receive  instructions, 
much  of  them  unknown  to  us,  while  we 
sit  placidly  by  in  our  homes,  and  feel 
that  the  teaching  of  our  children,  thrown 
onto  other  shoulders,  is  a  relief.    This 


will  end  in  disaster.  The  home  is  the 
place  where  character  is  formed  and 
where  faith  in  God  is  strengthened. 

Let  us  not  delude  ourselves;  let  us  not 
lay  the  flattering  unction  to  our  souls, 
that  if  we  complain  at  rulers  and  leaders 
our  duty  is  ended.  Before  God  every 
father  in  Israel  is  a  ruler  in  the  sense  of 
the  Lord's  definition  of  the  spirit  of  the 
Priesthood.  A  man  is  a  ruler  in  his 
house,  and  he  will  be  held  accountable 
for  the  manner  and  the  character  of  his 
rule.  If  in  justice  and  love  and  patience 
he  exercises  his  authority,  having  rev- 
erence for  the  dreams  of  youth,  there 
will  be  no  need  for  so  many  public  ex- 
hortations on  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
for  liquor  and  other  forbidden  things 
will  not  be  found  in  the  home  of  "one 
that  ruleth  well  his  own  house."  I  be- 
lieve that  all  evils  are  of  a  family.  Im- 
morality is  a  brother  to  drunkenness. 

With  firm  assurance  we  will  magnify 
our  calling  and  rededicate  ourselves  to 
the  service  of  God.  The  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  stake  presidents, 
and  bishops  hold  dominion,  righteous 
dominion,  under  the  awful  hand  of  God, 
and  to  Him  they  are  accountable  for 
their  overseership. 

God  bless  our  country.  God  bless 
our  homes.  In  properly  conducted 
homes  the  children  are  builded  up  in 
character,  in  faith,  in  the  principles  of 
the  gospel.  A  nation  in  which  such 
training  abounds  shall  increase  in  glory 
from  day  to  day.  The  delight  of  such  a 
nation  will  be  not  in  shedding  blood, 
not  to  conquer  by  might  or  physical 
power,  but  to  conquer  the  world  in  the 
spirit  of  Christ  along  the  lines  of  justice 
and  mercy. 

And  in  the  love  of  Christ  we  'will  walk 
under  His  banner  and  bring  souls  unto 
Him  whose  glorious  coming  is  nigh,  and 
he  will  reign  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


45 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


IT  is  a  thrilling  sight,  brethren,  to  stand 
here  and  look  into  your  faces,  so 
many  fine  and  wonderful  men,  many 
of  whom  I  know  personally.  I  hope  that 
you  will  give  me  your  faith  and  prayers 
that  the  very  few  minutes  that  I  occupy 
of  your  time  I  may  be  prompted  by  the 
Lord  in  what  I  say. 

Some  of  you  were  amused  at  the  last 
conference  in  April  when  I  remarked 
that  we  needed  a  few  seventies  to  give 
the  congregation  complexion.  Tonight 
we  have  a  large  representation  of  that 
group  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
Unless  it  might  be  the  high  councilmen 
of  the  stakes  who  are  present,  perhaps 
the  presidents  of  seventies  quorums 
form  the  largest  group  here,  and  we  who 
*tand  at  their  head  pledge  to  the  Presi- 
dency  of  this  Church  the  loyal  support 
of  that  group  of  men. 

If  you  will  read  the  107th  Section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  you  will 
learn  that  they  have  a  very  special  call- 
ing. Their  calling  is  to  walk  behind  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  in  carrying  the 
message  of  redemption  to  the  people  of 
the  world;  and  if  the  Church  didn't  have 
that  charge  and  that  calling  I  think  this 
group  never  would  have  been  organized 
in  the  Church  at  all. 

We  try  to  impress  upon  every  man 
who  is  ordained  into  the  seventies  quo- 
rums that  that  is  his  calling  and  that  if 
he  will  not  exercise  that  function  he  has 
no  right  to  come  into  this  group  of  men. 
They  should  be  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church.  They  should  be  the  predomi- 
nating element  in  any  missionary  group 
in  the  Church.  Now  we  have  two  min- 
istries of  that  type,  the  foreign  mission 
ministry  and  a  stake  mission  ministry, 
all  of  the  same  type  and  class  except  in 
some  minor  details,  and  we  now  are  in- 
terested very  much  in  that  stake  mission 
work  of  this  Church.  It  is  proving  to 
be  such  a  wonderful  and  magnificent 
work  that  we  are  overjoyed  with  the 
success  that  we  have  realized  in  the 
past.  But  we  are  worried  now,  breth- 
ren, because  we  note  a  falling  off  in  that 


effort.  We  are  short  this  year  about 
six  hundred  missionaries  as  compared 
with  last  year.  We  are  short  from  the 
seventies  six  or  seven  percent  of  that 
missionary  group.  We  would  like  to 
ask  you  presidents  who  are  here  when 
you  return  to  use  your  influence  in  re- 
cruiting from  your  ranks  other  seventies 
who  can  go  into  that  work. 

XTow,  there  is  no  more  magnificent 
•  work  in  the  Church  than  to  testify 
that  Christ  our  Lord  came  to  earth  to 
redeem  mankind,  and  that  is  the  very 
special  calling  of  you  brethren,  the 
seventies.  You  testify  to  that  by  word 
of  mouth,  but  you  also  do  it  by  the  ex- 
ample which  you  live.  And  perhaps  of 
the  two  the  more  potent  is  the  example 
that  one  sets.  We  believe  that  the 
reason  that  conversions  are  made  among 
the  stakes  of  Zion  more  easily  than  in 
outside  countries  is  that  the  people  of 
the  Church  live  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  that  there  is  radiated  from 
them  a  light  which  people  not  of  our 
faith  can  see,  and  perhaps  see  more 
readily  than  we  ourselves;  so  we  ask 
you  who  are  missionaries  in  this  stake 
work,  as  well  as  foreign  countries,  to 
show  by  your  lives  that  there  is  power 
and  efficacy  and  virtue  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

We  appeal  to  the  bishops  and  the 
presidencies  of  stakes  to  give  us  the  men 
and  the  women  we  need  for  this  work. 
They  are  just  as  essential  as  any  other 
work  we  undertake,  and  we  are  depen- 
dent upon  you  brethren  to  supply  them 
for  us.  All  our  stake  mission  presidents 
can  do  in  that  respect  is  to  ask  for  a 
group.  It  is  your  problem  to  supply 
them.  And  be  not  afraid,  brethren,  to 
give  us  men  of  quality  and  capabilities 
especially  adapted  to  this  work.  They 
are  much  more  successful  than  the  ones 
who  have  had  no  experience,  who  have 
no  liking  for  the  work.  A  man  to  be  a 
successful  missionary  must  have  his 
heart  and  soul  in  that  work.  We  pray 
that  you  will  give  us  the  type  of  men 
and  women  that  we  need. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Now,  in  this  particular  emergency 
which  has  lessened  our  group,  we  are 
finding  that  our  wives  and  our  daughters 
are  one  of  our  most  effective  missionary 
elements.  If  you  can't  supply  us  men, 
increase  our  numbers  by  giving  us  good 
women.  We  will  take  excellent  care 
of  them.  We  will  give  them  an  oppor- 
tunity that  they  cannot  have  otherwise, 
likely — an  experience  which  will  broad- 
en them  and  strengthen  them  and  help 
them.  Those  of  them  who  are  unmar- 
ried will  make  better  mothers,  and  those 
of  them  who  are  already  mothers  will 
go  to  the  work  with  an  experience  that 
will  qualify  them  for  it. 

Brethren,  it  is  an  important  work  and 
we  have  that  responsibility.     It  is  the 


First  Day 

charge  that  has  been  given  to  the 
Twelve  in  every  age  when  the  gospel 
has  been  established,  and  it  is  our 
greatest  purpose  to  carry  to  people  who 
have  not  learned  of  the  truth  a  light 
which  will  lead  them  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God  our  Heavenly  Father.  Will 
you,  then,  give  us  the  aid  and  the  sup- 
port that  we  need  that  this  work  may 
not  falter;  that  it  may  not  go  forth  halt- 
ingly but  that  it  may  go  with  a  tread  so 
firm  that  nothing  can  impede  its  pro- 
gress and  that  many  people  may  be  gar- 
nered into  the  Church  to  receive  of  these 
wonderful  benefits  and  blessings  of 
which  we  have  heard  this  evening. 

God  bless  you  all  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.    Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


The  Lord  has  said,  "I  have  warned 
you  and  forewarned  you" — He 
has  warned  us  again  today 
through  His  servants.  Perhaps  some  of 
us  will  continue  to  say  that  there  is  a 
tomorrow  when  we  will  repent  and  lead 
a  finer  life,  but  we  all  know  that  as  far 
as  each  one  of  us  is  concerned  the  time 
comes  when  for  us  there  is  no  tomor- 
row. The  Lord  has  also  said  that  today 
Is  the  time  to  repent. 

You  remember  that  the  Lord  told  His 
prophet,  Noah,  that  he  should  go  out 
and  warn  the  people  and  tell  them  of 
the  coming  destruction.  But  the  people, 
seemingly  because  they  thought  there 
would  always  be  a  tomorrow  and  be- 
cause the  floods  did  not  come  that  day 
or  the  next  day,  thought  they  would 
never  come;  therefore,  they  ridiculed 
the  prophets  and  went  their  way.  But 
the  floods  came  and  they  were  de- 
stroyed, because  they  would  not  listen 
to  the  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

I  remember  hearing  a  story  of  a  man 
who  had  just  lost  his  oldest  son.  The 
father  was  not  a  very  religious  man. 
In  fact,  he  had  disregarded  most  of  the 
Lord's  commandments.  Because  of  his 
son's  being  called  to  the  other  side,  a 
good  man  went  into  the  house  to  talk 
with  the  father  and  to  the  family.  The 
son  had  been  unfaithful  in  every  way. 


He  had  been  disobedient  unto  his  par- 
ents, to  his  country,  to  his  God.  As  the 
good  man  talked  with  the  father  and  the 
family,  the  father  said,  "I  think  that  this 
is  a  time  for  prayer."  Perhaps  we  all 
think  that  only  when  the  emergency 
comes  to  us  it  is  the  time  to  pray.  The 
efficiency  of  a  prayer  is  dependent  on 
the  type  of  life  we  have  lived  and  the 
way  we  have  made  progress  upon  the 
earth.  When  the  time  comes  for  the 
summons,  to  ourselves  or  to  our  family," 
if  we  have  not  repented,  if  we  have  not 
done  the  things  that  should  have  been 
done,  the  praying  comes  rather  late. 

I  trust,  brethren,  that  as  we  continue 
traveling  along  the  way  of  life,  we  will 
try  to  do  the  things  that  God  through 
His  servants  wants  us  to  do.  The  time 
is  short  and  there  is  no  telling  when  it 
might  be  too  late  for  us  to  repent  and 
do  the  things  that  we  ought  to  do.  It  is 
very  easy  in  an  emergency,  such  as  we 
have  in  war  today,  to  build  big  build- 
ings and  to  make  steel  and  to  make  air- 
planes and  to  build  hospitals.  Perhaps 
we  can  do  these  things  in  a  material 
way,  but  we  cannot  all  of  a  sudden 
build  character,  build  decent  homes,  or 
have  a  family  who  have  such  confidence 
in  us  that  they  will  listen  to  our  words 
and  listen  to  the  words  of  the  servants 
of  the  Lord, 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


47 


May  we  be  humble  as  we  live  upon 
the  earth.  May  we  repent  of  our  sins. 
May  we  take  this  message  seriously  as 


it  comes  to  us  today,  and  live  better  and 
finer  than  we  have  ever  lived  before,  I 
humbly  pray  in  Jesus'  name.    Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


One  of  the  most  important  docu- 
ments that  I  have  read  is  the 
message  which  was  delivered  by 
the  First  Presidency  last  spring.  Today 
we  have  had  another  equally  impor- 
tant message.  These  brethren  are  in- 
spired of  the  Lord.  I  don't  know  where 
we  could  find  such  writing  outside  of 
Holy  Writ  itself,  and  to  me  it  is  Holy 
Writ.  We  have  been  called  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  and  to  walk 
uprightly  before  Him.  If  this  great 
body  of  Priesthood  will  yield  to  the  per- 
suasion of  these  brethren  and  set  the 
proper  example,  there  will  certainly  be 
an  influence  for  good  in  this  great  land 
that  never  has  been  felt  before,  for  here 
is  the  strength  of  God,  the  strength  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  vested  in  this 
Church. 

I  often  think  of  the  words  of  the 
great  Solomon  who  said,  "As  a  man 
thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  Men 
who  have  it  in  their  hearts  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God,  will  keep  them. 
They  will  not  commit  adultery  who  say 
and  feel  that  it  is  a  sin  akin  to  murder,  a 
thing  the  Lord  has  said  we  shall  not  do. 
Such  men  will  not  steal,  they  will  not 
lie,  they  will  not  bear  false  witness,  or 
violate  the  Sabbath  day.  Men  will  not 
leave  the  work  of  God  undone  if  they 
feel  in  their  hearts  that  it  is  the  thing 
for  them  to  do. 

Brethren,  there  never  was  a  time  that 
was  more  opportune  for  us  than  right 
now.  There  will  never  be  another 
time  when  we  will  be  enjoying  this 
earthly  existence.  This  is  your  day 
and  mine.  We  will  never  go  through 
this  world  again  as  we  are  now.  We 
are  here  writing  our  history.  We  write 
it  every  day  and  there  can  be  no  change 
As  we  write  it,  that  is  the  way  it  will 
be.  We  write  it  by  our  lives.  No  mat- 
ter what  our  vocation  is,  no  matter 
where  we  are,  there  is  nothing  that  will 
build   us   more   surely   and  make   us 


stronger  than  an  assurance  that  we 
have  the  truth.  As  we  work  in  our 
fields  or  in  our  homes,  in  our  shops  01 
in  our  offices,  let  us  keep  in  mind  this 
thought:  This  is  the  work  of  God  that 
I  am  engaged  in. 

I  know  that  the  Lord,  our  Eternal 
Father,  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
introduced  to  him  the  Savior  of  the 
world  and  said  unto  him,  "This  is 
my  beloved  Son — hear  Him."  If  we 
will  keep  in  our  minds  all  the  time  that 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  is  in 
the  earth  and  that  the  same  leadership 
that  was  introduced  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  is  here;  if  we  will  reflect 
constantly  upon  the  high  standard  of 
living  and  teachings  that  have  been 
ours  from  the  days  of  Joseph  until  now; 
and  if  we  will  remember  that  there  has 
never  been  a  wavering  in  any  way  in 
the  leadership  of  this  Church,  we  can- 
not help  feeling  in  our  hearts  and  souls 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  If  we 
do  that  we  will  be  strong  and  we  will 
be  able  to  carry  on  as  the  Lord  would 
have  us  do.  We  will  not  be  weak, 
and  we  will  not  be  tossed  to  and  fro 
by  every  wind  of  doctrine,  but  we  will 
feel  in  olir  hearts  to  know  the  truth. 
We  will  understand  the  course  we 
should  take  and  the  opinion  that  we 
should  express;  we  will  know  that  we 
are  the  Lord's  chosen  people. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  testimony  that 
I  have,  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  in 
a  small  way  in  this  great  Church  of 
Christ  on  this  earth  in  this  dispensation; 
I  rejoice  that  I  have  been  permitted  to 
take  a  part  in  building  this  western  com- 
monwealth. I  know  that  is  the  feeling 
of  every  true  Latter-day  Saint.  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  bless  the  leadership  of  this 
Church,  for  this  Church  is  led  by  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God  who  was 
raised  up  for  this  very  purpose.  He 
stands  as  a  monument  in  faith  and  ex- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

pression  of  that  code  of  living  which,  I 
want  to  say  to  you  brethren,  commands 
the  respect  of  all  honorable  men  and 
women  everywhere  when  they  become 
acquainted  with  the  facts  and  know  us 
as  we  are.     These  are  the  things  we 


First  Day 

should  keep  in  our  minds,  and  if  we 
do,  we  will  not  be  weak  and  we  will 
not  fail,  but  we  will  die  worthy  men, 
Latter-day  Saints  in  full  fellowship.  To 
this  end  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


The  congregation  arose  and  joined  in  singing,  "Go  Ye  Messengers 
Of  Glory."   (Words  by  John  Taylor). 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


WE  certainly  have  had  a  glorious 
time  today.  From  the  first  prayer 
that  was  offered,  the  first  hymn 
sung,  this  house  has  been  the  abiding 
place  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Those 
of  us  who  have  assembled  have  un- 
doubtedly been  enriched  by  the  experi- 
ences through  which  we  have  passed. 
Reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact 
that  recently  one  of  the  brethren  had 
visited  some  of  our  shrines,  if  we  may 
call  them  shrines,  and  that  reminds  me 
that  within  the  last  year  I  have  been  at 
the  birthplace  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  It  is  just  about  the  same  size 
village  as  it  was  when  he  was  born.  I 
have  been  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  where  the 
Latter-day  Saints  built  a  temple.  It  is 
the  largest  building  in  that  section  of 
the  country  now,  and  Kirtland  is  a  vil- 
lage shrunk  to  the  point  that  it  no  longer 
has  a  post  office.  I  also  have  been  at 
Far  West  where  there  were  three  thou- 
sand of  our  people,  when  they  were 
driven  out,  and  there  are  only  three 
buildings  on  the  tract  of  land  that  we 
referred  to  as  Far  West — only  three, 
and  very  poor  buildings  at  that.  I  have 
been  thinking  also  of  other  places  where 
our  people  lived,  where  they  have  de- 
veloped lands  and  built  houses,  and  then 
were  compelled  to  leave  their  homes  and 
go  away.  Independence.  Missouri,  is 
no  larger  in  point  of  population,  or  little 
larger,  than  it  was  a  hundred  years  ago 
The  section  of  country  around  Nauvoo 
Is  just  a  village.  Nauvoo,  when  the 
Saints  were  driven  out,  was  a  city  of 
more  than  twenty  thousand  people,  and 
today  it  has  neither  a  streetcar  nor  a 
railroad  train,  and  its  population  does 
not  exceed  one  thousand  people.    Our 


people  came  out  of  the  world  because 
they  were  compelled  to  come.  It  was 
a  choice  between  the  world  and  the 
wilderness,  but  see  what  the  Lord 
wrought  and  see  how  He  has  fulfilled 
His  promise. 

"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  things 
will  be  added  unto  you." 

You  will  find  no  place  even  today. 
In  all  America,  no  house  of  worship, 
equal  to  the  house  you  are  sitting  in 
now,  in  point  of  convenience  and  the 
ability  to  hear  the  voices  of  those  who 
speak.  I  know  of  no  city  more  beauti- 
fully laid  out,  in  all  America,  than  this 
with  its  one  hundred  forty  thousand 
population,  and  we  have  other  fine 
cities.  The  Lord  brought  us  here  when 
it  was  a  wilderness,  and  He  has  made 
it  delightful  to  dwell  in.  Surely  we  are 
grateful  for  our  heritage. 

This  morning  the  patriarch  to  the 
Church  was  introduced  to  you.  His 
remarkable  lineage  is  worth  tracing.  He 
is  a  son  of  one  of  the  mighty  apostles 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  He  is  the  grandson  of  one 
of  the  great  presidents  of  the  Church. 
He  is  a  great-grandson  of  Hyrum  Smith, 
the  martyr,  who  was  the  brother  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  gave  his 
life  with  his  brother  that  this  gospel 
might  be  kept  in  the  world.  He  is  a 
great-great-grandson  of  Joseph  Smith, 
Senior,  the  first  patriarch  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to 
be  so  designated,  and  the  first  man  to 
receive  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet  that  he  had  beheld  a  heav- 
enly vision  and  had  listened  to  the 
voice  of  an  angel. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


49 


Every  family  that  came  into  the 
Church  in  the  early  days  and  remained 
faithful  has  enjoyed  rich  blessings  that 
could  be  obtained  in  no  other  way.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  not  just  another  church.  It  is 
His  Church  who  gave  it  His  name.  The 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  loving  ad- 
vice of  a  kind  and  Heavenly  Father 
who,  knowing  the  end  from  the  begin- 
ning, says,  "This  is  the  pathway — walk 
in  it,  and  ye  shall  find  the  celestial  king- 
dom," and  there  is  no  other  pathway 
that  leads  to  that  kingdom. 

Where  are  those  who  left  the  Church 
about  the  time  of  the  martyrdom  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  expecting  to  de- 
velop a  church  and  lead  the  people? 
What  has  happened  to  them?  I  made  a 
mental  note  while  sitting  here  of  the 
failure  of  James  J.  Strang,  Sidney  Rig- 
don,  Jason  W.  Briggs,  James  H.  Gur- 
ley,  Lyman  Wight,  Granville  Hedrick, 
and  I  might  name  others  but  I  will  not 
take  time.  What  became  of  them  and 
where  are  their  followers  today?  You 
could  put  all  of  them  that  make  any 
claim  to  following  those  men,  in  this 
building  and  they  would  be  lost.  This 
is  only  one  of  the  great  structures  of 
the  Church  with  which  you  are  iden- 
tified that  if  it  were  required  could  be 
filled  many,  many  times  over,  not  by 
all  the  people,  but  by  the  Priesthood 
alone. 

f  AM  thankful  for  my  membership 
*■  in  this,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
I  think  that  nobody  could  be  more 
thankful  than  I  or  more  grateful  for 
parents  and  grandparents  who  were 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  We  must 
not  forget  that  when  we  see  all  the 
richness  of  our  lives  we  can't  separate 
it  from  the  righteousness  of  our  moth- 
ers. It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  know, 
as  Nephi  of  old,  who  said  he  was  born 
of  goodly  parents — he  didn't  say  just 
a  goodly  father.  He  was  born  of  good- 
ly parents,  and  we  would  do  well  when 
we  think  of  our  blessings  to  remember 
our  mothers  and  our  grandmothers  and 
our  great-grandmothers.  Wherever 
there  was  a  great  leader  in  Israel  there 
was  a  great  wife  or  mother  or  both  who 
stood  by  his  side.    I  am  thankful  to  b§ 


here  with  you.    It  is  a  blessed  privilege. 

That  was  a  marvelous  message  that 
was  received  this  morning  from  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church — you  can't 
duplicate  it  in  any  other  church  in  the 
world;  and  you  can't  think  of  anything 
that  would  be  desirable  to  enrich  the 
Church  and  to  prepare  us  for  a  place 
in  the  celestial  kingdom  that  was  not 
included  in  that  message.  A  marvelous 
gathering  of  facts  and  figures  and  ad- 
vice and  counsel  that  we  would  all  do 
well  to  listen  to  and  profit  by. 

Now  tonight  we  are  here  in  peace 
and  quiet.  The  world  is  on  fire.  Every- 
where peace  has  been  taken  from  the 
earth,  and  the  devil  has  been  given 
power  over  his  own  dominion.  God 
has  said  if  we  will  honor  Him  and  keep 
His  commandments — if  we  will  ob- 
serve His  laws  He  will  fight  our  battles 
and  destroy  the  wicked,  and  when  the 
time  comes  He  will  .come  down  in 
heaven— not  from  heaven — but  He  will 
bring  heaven  with  Him — and  this  earth 
upon  which  we  dwell,  will  be  the  celes- 
tial kingdom. 

What  if  all  the  world  knew  and  be- 
lieved that?  What  a  change  there 
would  be  in  the  conditions  among  the 
children  of  men!  What  joy  would  be  in 
the  place  of  sorrow  and  distress  today! 
It  is  your  duty  and  mine,  having  re- 
ceived this  information,  to  impart  it  to 
others. 

We  are  a  little  handful  of  people 
among  the  children  of  men,  but  possess- 
ing the  only  key  to  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther. I  wonder  if  we  appreciate  it.  If 
we  do  we  should  evidence  it  by  teach- 
ing others.  Let  us  set  our  homes  in 
order.  Let  our  lights  so  shine  that  our 
neighbors  who  are  not  of  this  Church 
may  see  our  upright  lives  and  be  con- 
strained to  glorify  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
Let  us  so  adjust  ourselves  in  our  busi- 
ness affairs  that  we  will  be  known  for 
our  virtues  and  for  our  integrity.  Let 
our  homes  be  the  abiding  place  of  pray- 
er and  let  our  premises  indicate  that  we 
rejoice  in  living  in  our  homes.  Let  us 
set  the  example  to  the  world  that  the 
world  needs,  that  of  a  choice,  sweet, 
wholesome  surrounding  in  the  place 
that  we  call  home. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  3 

I  am  glad  to  be  identified  with  this 
group  of  men  here  tonight.  I  thank  you, 
my  brethren,  for  the  joy  that  has  come 
into  my  life  as  a  result  of  this  compan- 
ionship. I  have  been  privileged  above 
many  other  men  in  the  world.  I  am 
thankful  for  it.  I  am  not  inclined  to 
boast  about  it,  but  I  do  feel  grateful  to 
my  Heavenly  Father  that  all  my  life  I 
have  had  the  privilege  of  associating 
with  the  best  boys  and  girls  and  the 
best  men  and  women  that  I  could  find  in 
the  world,  and  it  has  not  been  neces- 
sary for  me  to  seek  my  pleasure  and 
my  company  and  my  education  among 
those  who  are  evil-minded.    Tonight, 


First  Day 

with  gratitude  in  my  heart,  and  with 
thanksgiving  I  associate  with  these  men, 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church, 
these  men  who  preside  over  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion — these  men  who  are 
seeking  to  build  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  as  they  ought  to  be- — thank- 
ful that  I  belong  to  this  group  and  pray 
that  as  the  days  go  on  and  as  the  op- 
portunities are  presented  that  I  may 
do  my  part.  That  I  may  be  worthy  of 
this  fellowship  and  this  membership, 
not  only  here  but  throughout  the  ages 
of  eternity,  and  that  we  may  all  be  so 
blessed  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.    Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IT  was  a  hundred  years  ago  that 
Stephen  A.  Douglas  came  to  Nau- 
voo  to  visit  the  Prophet  Joseph.  He 
had  previously  been  employed  as  coun- 
sel in  some  litigation  in  which  the  Proph- 
et was  involved,  and  was  a  very  warm 
friend  of  his.  As  he  surveyed  that 
lovely  city,  Nauvoo  (in  1843  it  was 
the  largest  city  in  Illinois,  with  a  popu- 
lation upwards  of  twenty  thousand  peo- 
ple) he  saw  the  orderliness,  the  mag- 
netic power  that  the  Prophet  seemed  to 
have  with  his  people,  and  he  is  said  to 
have  remarked  that  if  he  could  command 
the  leadership  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
had,  he  would  lead  a  group  of  people 
to  the  Northwest  and  give  up  his  politi- 
cal career.  He  was  then  in  the  House 
of  Representatives  in  Washington. 

There  is  one  thing,  however,  that 
Douglas  seems  to  have  overlooked. 
We  sang  today  "A  Poor  Wayfaring 
Man  of  Grief."  The  Prophet  Joseph 
was  in  prison.  Everything  that  he 
possessed,  apparently,  was  in  the  hands 
of  his  enemies,  but  there  was  something 
that  was  still  within  his  own  soul- 
there  was  something  that  he  still  pos- 
sessed that  Stephen  A.  Douglas  had 
not  recognized.  He  could,  in  the  face 
of  his  enemy,  in  the  face  of  persecution 
conscious  of  martyrdom — he  could  still 
sing  with  Brother  Taylor,  at  least  in  his 
heart,  that  lovely  hymn,  a  hymn  of  char- 
ity, a  hymn  of  kindness,  a  hymn  of 


forgiveness,  even  of  his  enemy.  That 
was  something  that  Stephen  A.  Doug- 
las didn't  detect.  Stephen  A.  Douglas 
didn't  detect,  either,  that  same  attitude 
of  spirit  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  had. 
when  in  Liberty  Jail  there  came  to  him 
through  the  revelation  of  Almighty  God 
that  marvelous  prayer  in  which  he  in- 
structed the  Priesthood,  an  injunction 
that  stands  for  you  and  me  today: 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to 
be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priesthood, 
only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by 
gentleness  and  meekness,  and  by  love  un- 
feigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which 
shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul  without  hy- 
pocrisy, and  without  guile — 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  then 
showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of 
love  toward  him  whom  thou  hast  reproved, 
lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness 
is  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death.  (D.  G  C 
121:41-44) 

Then  in  instruction  to  his  people — 
and  mind  you  he  was  in  prison,  in  a 
dingy,  dirty,  prison,  restrained  as  far 
as  the  physical  part  of  him  was  con- 
cerned; everything  taken  away  from 
him,  in  the  bigness  of  his  soul  he  said: 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity 
towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household  of 
faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts 
unceasingly;  then  shall  thy  confidence  WBX 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


51 


strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doc- 
trine of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy 
soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant 
companion,  and  thy  scepter  an  unchanging 
scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy 
dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion, 
and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever.  (D.  &  C.  121 
45-46) 

It  was  this,  my  brethren,  it  was  this 
attribute  that  was  manifest  in  Carthage 
Jail  that  Stephen  A.  Douglas  never  felt. 
He  saw  only,  but  he  did  not  feel.  That 
is  one  reason  why  today  it  is  recognized 
by  people  around  us  that  there  is  a  big- 
ness in  the  coming  together,  as  we  do 
here  on  these  occasions  of  the  general 
conference,  but  those  who  do  not  know 
as  we  know  do  not  sense  the  bigness  of 
this  thing.    They  do  not  know  what  it 


is  that  impels  men  to  come  hundreds 
of  miles  in  answer  to  a  call  such  as  this. 
They  do  not  know  what  it  is  that  impels 
men  in  our  outlying  stakes  to  give  their 
all,  almost,  for  the  benefit  of  their 
brethren,  to  help  build  up  their  social 
life,  their  physical  life,  and,  above  all, 
their  spiritual  life.  These  are  the  things 
that  men  do  not  realize  when  they  come 
in  our  midst.  These  are  the  things  that 
men  did  not  realize  when  they  came 
to  Nauvoo,  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  They  saw  merely  the  external, 
not  the  internal;  but  there  is  a  power 
here  that  you  and  I  feel,  and  we  are 
grateful  to  God  tonight  for  it,  for  the 
testimony  that  God  has  given  us  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  and  I  rejoice  with 
you  in  it  with  all  my  heart,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  would  give  almost  anything  I  have 
if  I  could  fight  away  the  timidity 
that  comes  with  this  responsibility. 
However,  with  that  feeling,  there  is 
with  me  the  consciousness  of  the  thou- 
sands of  sympathetic  attitudes  towards 
us  who  have  this  responsibility  in  gen- 
eral conference.  If  we  did  not  enjoy 
the  music  and  the  fine  things  that  are 
said  here  on  these  occasions,  if  we  didn't 
have  those  at  all,  it  would  be  worth 
while  just  to  grasp  the  hands  of  you 
men  and  get  the  white  of  your  eyes  and 
the  spirit  that  you  carry  with  you.  I 
want  to  take  this  occasion  to  express 
my  appreciation  of  the  filial  feeling  that 
you  extend  to  us. 

As  we  go  about  visiting  you  in  the 
different  stakes,  so  far  as  some  of  us  are 
concerned,  we  wonder  just  how  much 
good  we  do.  But  there  is  one  thing  we 
are  sure  about,  and  I  have  expressed  it 
more  than  once;  we  are  sure  of  the  fine 
spirit  that  we  get  from  you,  and  it  is 
not  your  fault  if  ^ve  don't  take  it  else- 
where. I  am  one  of  those  who  believe 
that  inspiration  goes  up  the  ladder  as 
well  as  down  the  ladder.  I  mean  that 
we  expect  and  get  inspiration  and  reve- 
lation from  our  file  leaders.  It  must  be 
that  way— that's  the  inspiration  going 


down  the  ladder.  I  am  not  unmindful, 
however,  of  the  inspiration  that  goes 
up  the  ladder  as  you  in  your  commun- 
ities, your  wards,  and  your  stakes  de- 
velop things  and  perfect  them;  then  we 
who  visit  you  get  these  ideas  and  par- 
take of  those  influences.  We  are  like 
the  bee  who  goes  from  flower  to  flower 
sipping  honey  as  we  find  it.  Unless  we 
are  altogether  dead  on  our  feet,  we  can- 
not help  scattering  the  pollen — the  pre- 
cious gems  we  find  in  your  particular 
stakes.  Each  one  of  us  is  made  the 
better  by  virtue  of  the  attainments  and 
spirit  of  the  rest  of  us. 

I  remember  seeing,  as  a  boy,  a  pack- 
ing company's  advertisement  that  was 
on  the  billboards  of  every  city  in  the 
United  States.  I  can  see  that  picture 
now  as  vividly  as  if  it  were  yesterday. 
It  was  a  herd  of  steers  being  crowded 
into  one  can  of  \)tei  extract.  In  other 
words,  in  every  can  were  vitamins  of 
the  herd.  Rather  a  rough  comparison, 
I  agree,  but  in  a  sense  isn't  each  one  of 
us  a  soul  of  the  virtues  of  all  of  us? 

I  am  thoroughly  convinced  that  one 
of  the  great  virtues  of  the  Church  is  that 
of  visiting  about  and  taking  the  honey, 
if  you  please,  from  flower  to  flower. 
Our  visiting  with  one  another  keeps  the 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Y 


Saturday,  October  3 

Church  alive.  There  is  no  question 
about  it.  What  concerns  me  right  now 
is  that  these  contacts  with  one  another 
are  going  to  be  hampered.  It  is  this 
rubber  situation.  It  is  a  challenge  to 
you.  You  have  never  had  so  many  in- 
roads on  your  organizations  as  now. 
You  have  the  boys  leaving  for  the 
army,  you  have  people  going  to  the 
arms  centers,  and  last  but  not  least, 
you  have  the  people  that  are  going 
crazy  over  money.  It  is  going  to  their 
heads,  and  it  is  a  sad  picture. 

ou  have  often  heard  it  said,  "Liber- 
ty, liberty,  how  many  crimes  are 
committed  in  thy  name?"  May  I  just 
change  that  a  little  bit?  "Oh,  rubber,  oh 
tires,  (the  want  of  them),  how  many 
crimes  of  omission  are  going  to  be  com- 
mitted in  thy  name?"  If  you  are  inactive, 
if  you  are  shirking  your  responsibilities, 
you  are  going  to  blame  it  on  the  lack 
of  rubber,  and  while  I  love  you  and 
hope  you  love  me,  I  am  not  unmindful 
of  some  of  the  conditions  we  find  in  the 
stakes.  We  find  people  who  are  not  as 
active  as  they  ought  to  be.  They  have 
a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  (at  least  they 
think  they  have) ,  but  it  stops  there.  We 
are  not  as  active  as  we  should  be.  I 
often  think  of  the  old  fellow  down  our 
way  who  used  to  get  up  on  fast  days 
and  say,  "I  just  can't  rest  until  I  have 
borne  my  testimony."  The  trouble 
with  him  was  that  he  bore  his  testimony 
the  first  part  of  the  meeting  and  then 
went  sound  asleep  and  pretty  nearly 
snored  his  head  off.  Now  are  you  do- 
ing that?  Am  I  doing  it?  It  is  one  thing 
to  have  a  testimony  and  another  thing 
to  do  something  about  it.  Don't  you 
think  that  I  have  so  little  sense  that  I 
am  speaking  disparagingly  of  the  testi- 
mony of  a  humble  person.  The  Church 
rests  on  that  kind  of  faith.  My  mother 
taught  me  at  her  knee  just  how  impor- 
tant that  is. 

To  illustrate  what  I  am  driving  at, 
may  I  tell  a  story  that  was  told  to  us 
down  in  Lehi  at  a  recent  conference 
there.  A  good  patriarch  said  that  he 
was  asked  to  take  his  saw  and  hammer 
to  the  church  and  do  some  work.  He 
found  the  hammer,  but  he  couldn't  find 
the  saw.     He  hunted  all  over  for  it, 


First  Day 

and  finally  his  wife  came  to  the  rescue. 
She  said,  "Now,  Father,  if  I  were  you 
I  would  think  where  I  used  that  saw 
last,  and  I  believe  I  would  hunt  in 
that  place."  Well,  he  went  every- 
where in  search  of  the  saw.  He  looked 
high  and  low  ever  trying  to  think  where 
he  last  used  the  saw  and  praying  that 
he  might  be  guided  to  the  lost  article. 
He  climbed  on  the  roof — no  saw  in 
sight.  At  that  moment,  when  he  was 
about  to  despair,  although  it  was  a 
breezeless  day,  a  slight  stir  of  the  air 
tipped  the  saw  from  the  top  of  the  chim- 
ney. It  whirled  through  the  air  and 
stuck  in  the  shingled  roof  a  few  feet 
ahead  of  him  like  the  alighting  of  an 
arrow.  In  soliloquizing  about  this  al- 
most miraculous  restoration,  our  patri- 
arch remarked  to  us,  "I  thought  I  saw 
the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  that  saw.  But," 
emphasized  he,  "I  was  dead  sure  the 
Lord  wanted  me  to  see  the  hand  of  the 
saw."  Now,  it  is  easier  to  see  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  in  things  than  it  is  to  see 
the  hand  of  the  saw. 

Someone  has  wisely  said,  "Many  a 
man  has  made  a  false  step  by  standing 
still."  A  good  member  of  our  Church 
who  is  more  skilful  in  the  use  of  the 
baton  than  he  is  in  penmanship  stated 
that  in  giving  the  name  of  a  hymn  to 
be  sung  as,  "Sweet  and  Low,"  the 
brother  presiding  announced  it  as, 
"Sweat  and  Sow."  Rather  an  odd 
coincidence,  but  life  is  more  "sweat  and 
sow"  than  it  is  "sweet  and  low."  Do 
some  of  us  fish  on  the  sand  bar  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  the  fish  have 
moved  out  with  the  river? 

May  I  read  in  closing  this  piece  called 
"Blind  People"? 

This  is  an  age  of  readjustment.  Only 
those  capable  of  making  quick  changes  fit 
the  times.  Those  with  closed  eyes  and 
closed  minds  are  in  for  trouble.  A  blind 
man  wants  the  furniture  in  a  room  left  un- 
changed. Only  then  can  he  move  about 
with  any  degree  of  comfort  and  safety. 
Change  the  setting,  and  he  finds  himself 
bumping  into  things.  No  longer  can  he 
move  freely.  In  our  Church  there  are  many 
men  who  act  as  if  they  were  blind.  They 
too  want  no  changes  made.  They  worship 
familiar  patterns,  and  new  ideas,  new  meth- 
ods, new  personalities  cause  them  discom- 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


53 


fort.  Now  is  the  time  to  remember  the  law 
of  the  survival  of  the  fittest.  We  survive 
or  we  perish  according  to  our  adaptability 
or  inadaptability  to  our  environment.  Each 
of  us  must  ask,  "What  changes  must  I  make 
in  my  thinking  to  fit  me  to  this  new  environ- 
ment?" 

I  am  not  in  any  sense  fighting  the  idea 
presented  by  Brother  Bowen.  I  think 
he  is  just  as  right  as  he  can  be.    You 


can't  change  fundamentals.  We  have 
people  coming  in  all  around  us  by  the 
thousands.  What  are  you  doing  about 
it?  Are  we  going  to  absorb  them,  or 
are  they  going  to  absorb  us?  It  depends 
on  our  attitude. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  broad- 
minded  and  see  the  hand  of  the  saw  and 
work  our  heads  off.    Amen. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IT  is  a  marvelous  thing,  my  brethren, 
to  be  numbered  among  the  men  who 
have  been  called  to  act  in  the  name 
of  God  here  on  earth.  There  are  one 
hundred  eleven  thousand — slightly  more 
— men  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, divided  into  one  thousand  two 
hundred  six  quorums.  I  suppose  there 
are  five  thousand  of  that  number  here 
tonight,  and  you  constitute  the  leaders 
of  the  Church.  As  you  know,  my  activ- 
ity has  been  largely  in  the  mission  field. 
Since  returning  from  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission,  I  have  been  assigned  to 
read  every  Priesthood  quorum  report  in 
this  Church,  and  make  notations  as  to 
where  these  Priesthood  quorums  are 
falling  down.  It  has  been  an  interesting 
thing  to  me  to  note  that  for  the  month  of 
August  just  past,  in  activity,  the  high 
priests  quorum  of  the  San  Diego  Stake 
leads  with  eighty-two  percent  of  its 
members  active.  The  lowest  stake  in 
the  high  priests  quorums  runs  only 
twelve  percent.  All  along  between  that 
point  of  twelve  percent  and  eighty-two 
percent,  the  different  quorums  function. 
Eighty-two  percent  would  be  a  low  per- 
centage if  the  Priesthood  really  realized 
the  importance  of  their  calling  as  God's 
representatives  in  their  respective 
places,  I  am  sure. 

In  the  seventies  for  August,  Long 
Beach  Stake  led  with  seventy-four  per- 
cent of  the  seventies  active;  in  the  low- 
est stake  only  eight  percent  of  the  sev- 
enties were  active. 

Of  the  elders  in  Juarez  Stake  fifty- 
nine  percent  were  active,  and  there  were 
two  stakes  that  only  had  four  percent 
of  their  elders  active. 


^Tow  it  has  been  interesting  in  check- 
■*■  ^  ing  these  reports  to  find  that  many 
of  the  questions  are  not  answered.  They 
are  slurred  over  and  the  very  reason 
for  those  reports,  of  course,  is  to  call 
to  the  attention  of  the  presidency  of  the 
quorums  wherein  they  are  failing,  and 
it  is  the  duty  of  every  presidency  of  a 
quorum  to  know  his  quorum  members' 
activity  and  to  be  closely  associated 
with  them  and  be  indeed  a  father  to  his 
brethren  and  to  show  a  great  deal  of  in- 
terest in  them.  I  have  noticed  that  prac- 
tically nothing  is  being  done  with  re- 
spect to  the  request  President  Grant 
made  some  years  ago,  that  we  work  with 
those  who  are  addicted  to  liquor  and  to- 
bacco; and  I  find  in  one  quorum  where 
there  are  forty-four  members  'and  not 
one  of  them  is  reported  as  observing  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  Now,  I  think  per- 
haps the  secretary  has  neglected  to  fill 
in  the  answer  in  his  hurry  to  get  the  job 
over.  In  other  quorums  I  find  where  a 
third  of  the  quorum  members  use  liquor 
and  tobacco,  I  am  sure  that  these  things 
are  not  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly 
Father.  But  if  the  quorum  secretaries 
would  be  more  careful — if  the  presi- 
dencies of  quorums  would  check  upon 
these  questions  and  the  answers  before 
they  sign  the  reports  and  see  that  they 
are  properly  filled  out  and  if  quorums 
would  only  send  in  their  reports — we 
have  some  quorums  that  haven't  sent 
in  their  reports  all  this  year,  yet — to  me 
it  is  rather  strange  after  laboring  in  the 
mission  field,  and  having  one  hundred 
percent  response  when  you  ask  the  mis- 
sionaries to  do  something,  to  come  home 
and  work  with  the  Priesthood  and  find 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

that  it  runs  as  low  as  four  percent  who 
are  active  in  some  stakes. 

Brethren,  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know 
it,  and  I  love  it.  I  love  these  men  with 
whom  I  associate.  I  love  the  stakes  and 
the  wards,  and  the  mission  fields.  I  have 
found,  wherever  I  go  among  the  stakes, 
such  a  sweet  spirit  that  I  am  sure  things 
are  not  reported  that  are  happening 
there,  and  it  would  be  nice  to  have  these 
things  on  file  in  the  head  offices  of  the 
Church  where  they  can  be  checked  upon 


First  Day 

and  known.  Surely  much  is  being  missed 
I  feel  as  I  go  amongst  you  and  feel  the 
spirit  in  your  stakes. 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  measure 
up  to  this  responsibility,  that  the  men 
who  hold  this  Priesthood  might  act  as 
do  their  sons  who  spend  their  time  in 
the  mission  field  and  put  in  thirteen  and 
fourteen  hours  a  day  in  doing  something 
about  the  responsibility  which  is  theirs 
is  my  prayer  in  Jesus'  name.    Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  shall  now  have  the  privilege  and  pleasure  of  hearing  a  message 
from  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

There  was  one  other  member  of  the  General  Authorities  on  the  pro- 
gram tonight,  but  his  doctor,  solicitous  of  his  health,  has  advised  that  he 
be  not  subjected  to  the  strain  of  public  speaking.  That  is  Brother  Sylvester 
Q.  Cannon.  We  should  like  to  hear  from  him,  but  we  want  him  to  know 
that  we  are  solicitous  of  his  health,  and  we  will  excuse  him  from  this  ex- 
treme responsibility  during  this  Conference.  He  knows  he  has  our  faith  and 
prayers  for  a  complete  recovery. 

President  Clark  will  now  speak  to  us  and  we  trust  he  will  take  all  the 
time  that  he  feels  impressed  to  occupy. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


BREfHREN: 
I  have  been  trying  for  a  week 
to  relieve  you  of  this  experi- 
ence, but  Brother  McKay,  so  kind, 
so  sweet,  and  so  merciful,  has  been 
perfectly  adamant.  So  I  stand  be- 
fore you  here,  not  to  preach,  but  to 
counsel  with  you. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  misappre- 
hension among  our  people  regarding 
the  United  Order. . 

I  have  not  been  able  to  believe 
that  the  United  Order  meant  what 
some  people  have  thought  it  meant, 
so  within  the  last  months  I  have  spent 
quite  a  little  time  reading  the  revela- 
tions thereon,  also  reading  our  his- 
tory, and  at  the  same  time  giving 
some  consideration  to  a  dissertation 
which  has  been  written  regarding  the 
Order. 


There  is  a  growing — I  fear  it  is 
growing — sentiment  that  commun- 
ism and  the  United  Order  are  virtu- 
ally the  same  thing,  communism  be- 
ing merely  the  forerunner,  so  to 
speak,  of  a  reestablishment  of  the 
United  Order.  I  am  informed  that 
ex-bishops,  and  indeed,  bishops,  who 
belong  to  communistic  organizations, 
are  preaching  this  doctrine.  So  I 
thought  that  perhaps  if  I  said  just 
a  few  words  to  you  tonight  regard- 
ing the  way  I  interpret  the  revela- 
tions that  are  printed'  about  this  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  (if 
there  are  other  revelations  about  the 
Order,  I  do  not  know  of  them),  I 
thought  if  I  said  something  about  it, 
it  might  be  helpful.  I  recommend 
that  you,  my  brethren,  read  a  few  of 
the   Sections   of   the   Doctrine   and 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


55 


Covenants  which  cover  this  matter, 
beginning  with  Sections  42  and  51. 
( See  also  Sections  70,  78,  82,  83,  85, 
90,  92,  96,  and  104. )  If  you  will  go 
over  these  sections,  I  feel  sure  that 
you  will  find  that  my  explanation  of 
the  United  Order  will  be  substanti- 
ally accurate. 

Early  Deviations 

I  may  say  to  begin  with,  that  in 
practice  the  brethren  in  Missouri  got 
away,  in  their  attempts  to  set  up  the 
United  Order,  from  the  principles 
set  out  in  the  revelations.  This  is 
also  true  of  the  organizations  set  up 
here  in  Utah  after  the  Saints  came  to 
the  Valleys.  So  far  as  I  have  seen 
there  has  been  preserved  only  one 
document  that  purports  to  be  a  legal 
instrument  used  in  connection  with 
the  setting  up  of  the  United  Order, 
and  that  document  is  without  date. 
It  is  said  to  have  been  found  among 
the  papers  of  Bishop  Partridge.  It 
was  a  "lease-lend"  document.  You 
may  have  heard  that  phrase  before. 
Under  this  instrument  the  Church 
leased  to  Titus  Billings  a  certain 
amount  of  real  estate  and  loaned  him 
a  certain  amount  of  personal  prop- 
erty.1 

This  instrument  is  not  in  accord- 
ance with  the  principle  laid  down  in 
the  revelations  touching  upon  the 
United  Order. 

The  basic  principle  of  all  the  reve- 
lations on  the  United  Order  is  that 
everything  we  have  belongs  to  the 
Lord;  therefore,  the  Lord  may  call 
upon  us  for  any  and  all  of  the  prop- 
erty which  we  have,  because  it  be- 
longs to  Him.  This,  I  repeat,  is  the 
basic  principle.  (D.  &.  C.  104:14-17, 
54-57) 

One  of  the  places  in  which  some 
of  the  brethren  are  going  astray  is 
this:  There  is  continuous  reference 
in  the  revelations  to  equality  among 

iSmith,  Joseph,  History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  I,  pp. 
365-367. 


the  brethren,  but  I  think  you  will 
find  only  one  place  where  that  equal- 
ity is  really  described,  though  it  is 
referred  to  in  other  revelations.  That 
revelation  (D.  &  C.  51:3)  affirms 
that  every  man  is  to  be  "equal  ac- 
cording to  his  family,  according  to  his 
circumstances  and  his  wants  and 
needs."  (See  also  D.  &  C.  82:17; 
78:5-6.)  Obviously,  this  is  not  a 
case  of  "dead  level"  equality.  It  is 
"equality"  that  will  vary  as  much  as 
the  man's  circumstances,  his  family, 
his  wants  and  needs,  may  vary. 

Consecration 

In  the  next  place,  under  the  United 
Order  every  man  was  called  to  con- 
secrate to  the  Church  all  of  the  prop- 
erty which  he  had;  the  real  estate  was 
to  be  conveyed  to  the  Church,  as  I 
understand  the  revelations,  by  what 
we  would  call  a  deed  in  fee  simple. 
Thus  the  man's  property  became  ab- 
solutely the  property  of  the  Church. 
(D.  &C.  42:30;  72:15)  Then  the 
bishop  deeded  back  to  the  donor  by 
the  same  kind  of  deed,  that  is,  in  fee 
simple,  and  also  transferred  to  him 
by  an  equivalent  instrument,  so  far 
as  personal  property  was  concerned, 
that  amount  of  real  and  personal 
property,  which,  the  two  being  taken 
together,  would  be  required  by  the 
individual  for  the  support  of  him- 
self and  his  family  "according  to  his 
family,  according  to  his  circum- 
stances and  his  wants  and  needs." 
This  the  man  held  as  his  own  prop- 
erty. (D.  &  C.  42:32;  51:4-6;  83:3) 

In  other  words,  basic  to  the  United 
Order  was  the  private  ownership  of 
property,  every  man  had  his  own 
property  from  which  he  might  se- 
cure that  which  was  necessary  for  the 
support  of  himself  and  his  family. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  revelations 
that  would  indicate  that  this  proper- 
ty was  not  freely  alienable  at  the 
will  of  the  owner.    It  was  not  con- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

templated  that  the  Church  should 
own  everything  or  that  we  should  be- 
come in  the  Church,  with  reference 
to  our  property  and  otherwise,  the 
same  kind  of  automaton,  manikin, 
that  communism  makes  out  of  the  in- 
dividual, with  the  State  standing  at 
the  head  in  place  of  the  Church. 

Now,  that  part  of  a  man's  prop- 
erty which  was  not  turned  back  to 
him,  if  he  had  more  than  was  needed 
under  this  rule  of  "equality"  already 
stated,  became  the  common  property 
of  the  Church,  and  that  common 
property  was  used  for  the  support  of 
the  poor  of  the  Church.  It  is  spoken 
of  in  the  revelations  as  the  "residue" 
of  property.  (D.  &  C.  42:34-36) 

Land  Portions 

Furthermore,  it  was  intended, 
though  apparently  it  did  not  work 
out  very  well,  that  the  poor  coming 
into  Zion,  and  by  Zion  I  mean,  here, 
Missouri — the  poor  coming  into  Zion 
were  to  have  given  to  them  a  "por- 
tion" of  land,  which  land  was  to  be 
either  purchased  from  the  Govern- 
ment (and  it  was  planned  to  pur- 
chase large  areas  from  the  Govern- 
ment), or  purchased  from  individu- 
als, or  received  as  consecrations 
from  members  of  the  Church.  The 
amount  of  this  "portion"  was  to  be 
such  as  would  make  him  equal  to 
others  according  to  his  circumstan- 
ces, his  family,  his  wants  and  needs. 

The  land  which  you  received  from 
the  bishop  by  deed,  whether  it  was 
part  of  the  land  which  you,  yourself, 
had  deeded  to  the  Church,  or  wheth- 
er it  came  as  an  out-right  gift  from 
the  Church  as  just  indicated,  and  the 
personal  property  which  you  re- 
ceived, were  all  together  sometimes 
called  a  "portion"  (D.  &  C.  51:4-6). 
sometimes  a  "stewardship"  ( D.  &  C. 
104:11-12),  and  sometimes  an  "in- 
heritance." (D.  &C.  83:3) 

As  just  indicated,  there  were  oth- 
er kinds  of  inheritances  and  stew- 


First  Day 
ardships  than  land  or  mere  personal 
property;  for  example,  the  Prophet 
and  others  had  a  stewardship  given 
to  them  which  consisted  of  the  reve- 
lations and  commandments  (D.  &  C. 
70 : 1  -4 ) ;  others  had  given  to  them  a 
stewardship  involving  the  printing 
house  (D.  &  C.  104:29-30);  another 
stewardship  was  a  mercantile  estab- 
lishment. ( D.  &  C.  1 04 :  39-42 ) 

Surplus 

I  repeat  that  whatever  a  steward 
realized  from  the  portion  allotted  to 
him  over  and  above  that  which  was 
necessary  in  order  to  keep  his  family 
under  the  standard  provided,  as  al- 
ready stated  above,  was  turned  over 
by  the  steward  to  the  bishop,  and  this 
amount  of  surplus,  plus  the  residues  to 
which  I  have  already  referred,  went 
into  a  bishop's  storehouse  (D.  &  C.  51 : 
13  and  citations  above),  and  the  mate- 
rials of  the  storehouse  'were  to  be  used 
in  creating  portions,  as  above  indicated, 
for  caring  for  the  poor  (D.  &  C.  78:3) , 
the  widows  and  orphans  ( D.  &  C.  83 : 
6) ,  and  for  the  elders  of  the  Church  en- 
gaged in  the  ministry,  who  were  to  pay 
for  what  they  received  if  they  could,  but 
if  not,  their  faithful  labors  should  an- 
swer their  debt  to  the  bishop.  (D.  &  C. 
72:11  ff) 

Other  Institutions 

Now,  as  time  went  on  and  the  system 
developed,  the  Lord  created  two  other 
institutions  besides  the  storehouse:  one 
was  known  as  the  Sacred  Treasury,  in- 
to which  was  put  "the  avails  of  the 
sacred  things  in  the  treasury,  for  sacred 
and  holy  purposes."  While  it  is  not 
clear,  it  would  seem  that  into  this  treas- 
ury were  to  be  put  the  surpluses  which 
were  derived  from  the  publication  of  the 
revelations,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  other  similar 
things,  the  stewardship  of  which  had 
been  given  to  Joseph  and  others.  (D.  & 
C.  104:60-66) 

The  Lord  also  provided  for  the  cre- 
ation of  "Another  Treasury,"  and  into 
that  other  treasury  went  the  general 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


57 


revenues  which  came  to  the  Church, 
such  as  gifts  of  money  and  those  reven- 
ues derived  from  the  improvement  of 
stewardships  as  distinguished  from  the 
residues  of  the  original  consecrations 
and  the  surpluses  which  came  from  the 
operation  of  their  stewardships.  (D.  & 
C.  72:11  ff) 

The  foregoing  is  the  general  outline 
as  it  is  gathered  frdm  the  revelations 
of  the  law  of  the  United  Order  which 
the  Lord  spoke  of  as  "my  law."  (D.  & 
C.  44:6;  51 :  15)  There  are  passages  in 
the  revelations  which,  taken  from  their 
context  and  without  having  in  mind  the 
whole  system,  might  be  considered  as 
inconsistent  with  some  of  the  things 
which  I  have  set  out,  but  all  such  pas- 
sages fall  into  line  if  the  whole  program 
is  looked  at  as  contained  in  all  of  the 
revelations. 

Private  Ownership  Fundamental 

The  fundamental  principle  of  this  sys- 
tem was  the  private  ownership  of  prop- 
erty. Each  man  owned  his  portion,  or 
inheritance,  or  stewardship,  'with  an  ab- 
solute title,  which  he  could  alienate,  or 
hypothecate,  or  otherwise  treat  as  his 
own.  The  Church  did  not  own  all  of 
the  property,  and  the  life  under  the 
United  Order  was  not  a  communal  life, 
as  the  Prophet  Joseph,  himself,  said, 
(History  of  the  Church,  Volume  III,  p. 
28).  The  United  Order  is  an  individ- 
ualistic system,  not  a  communal  system. 

The  Welfare  Plan  and  the 
United  Order 

We  have  all  said  that  the  Welfare 
Plan  is  not  the  United  Order  and  was 
not  intended  to  be.  However,  I  should 
like  to  suggest  to  you  that  perhaps, 
after  all,  when  the  Welfare  Plan  gets 
thoroughly  into  operation — it  is  not  so 
yet — we  shall  not  be  so  very  far  from 
carrying  out  the  great  fundamentals  of 
the  United  Order. 

In  the  first  place  I  repeat  again,  the 
United  Order  recognized  and  was  built 
upon  the  principle  of  private  ownership 
of  property;  all  that  a  man  had  and  lived 
upon  under  the  United  Order,  was  his 
own.    Quite  obviously,  the  fundamental 


principle  of  our  system  today  is  the  own- 
ership of  private  property. 

In  the  next  place,  in  lieu  of  residues 
and  surpluses  which  were  accumulated 
and  built  up  under  the  United  Order, 
we,  today,  have  our  fast  offerings,  our 
Welfare  donations,  and  our  tithing, 
all  of  which  may  be  devoted  to  the  care 
of  the  poor,  as  well  as  for  the  carrying 
on  of  the  activities  and  business  of  the 
Church.  After  all,  the  United  Order 
was  primarily  designed  to  build  up  a 
system  under  which  there  should  be  no 
abjectly  poor,  and  this  is  the  purpose, 
also,  of  the  Welfare  Plan. 

In  this  connection  it  should  be  ob- 
served that  it  is  clear  from  these  earlier 
revelations,  as  well  as  from  our  history, 
that  the  Lord  had  very  early  to  tell  the 
people  about  the  wickedness  of  idleness, 
and  the  wickedness  of  greed,  because 
the  brethren  who  had  were  not  giving 
properly,  and  those  who  had  not  were 
evidently  intending  to  live  without  work 
on  the  things  which  'were  to  be  received 
from  those  who  had  property.  (D.  &  C. 
56:16-20) 

Storehouses  and  Projects 

Furthermore,  we  had  under  the 
United  Order  a  bishop's  storehouse  in 
which  were  collected  the  materials  from 
which  to  supply  the  needs  and  the  wants 
of  the  poor.  We  have  a  bishop's  store- 
house under  the  Welfare  Plan,  used  for 
the  same  purpose. 

As  I  have  already  indicated,  the  sur- 
plus properties  which  came  to  the 
Church  under  the  Law  of  Consecration, 
under  the  United  Order,  became  the 
"common  property"  of  the  Church  (D. 
&  C.  82:18)  and  'were  handled  under 
the  United  Order  for  the  benefit  of  the 
poor.  We  have  now  under  the  Wel- 
fare Plan  all  over  the  Church,  ward 
land  projects.  In  some  cases  the  lands 
are  owned  by  the  'wards,  in  others  they 
are  leased  by  the  'wards  or  lent  to  them 
by  private  individuals.  This  land  is 
being  farmed  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor, 
by  the  poor  where  you  can  get  the 
poor  to  work  it.  ' 

We  have  in  place  of  the  two  treas- 
uries, the  "Sacred  Treasury"  and  "An- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

other  Treasury,"  the  general  funds  of 
the  Church. 

Thus  you  will  see,  brethren,  that  in 
many  of  its  great  essentials,  we  have, 
as  the  Welfare  Plan  has  now  developed, 
the  broad  essentials  of  the  United  Or- 
der. Furthermore,  having  in  mind  the 
assistance  which  is  being  given  from 
time  to  time  and  in  various  wards  to 
help  set  people  up  in  business  or  in  farm- 
ing, we  have  a  plan  which  is  not  essenti- 
ally unlike  that  which  was  in  the  United 
Order  when  the  poor  were  given  por- 
tions from  the  common  fund. 

Now,  brethren,  the  Church  has  made 
tremendous  advances  in  the  Welfare 
Plan.  We  shall  have  to  make  still  great- 
er advances.  As  the  Message  of  the 
First  Presidency  said  this  morning,  we 
are  being  told  by  Government  officials 
that  we  face  what  we  used  to  call  "hard 
times."  If  the  Welfare  Plan  is  fully 
operative,  we  shall  be  able  to  care  for 
every  destitute  Latter-day  Saint  wher- 
ever he  may  be. 

THE  CONSTITUTION 

Now,  I  would  like  to  say  something 
else,  brethren,  again  by  way  of  counsel. 
I  shall  be  accused,  when  I  do,  of  talking 
politics,  and  perhaps  on  this  point  I  may 
say  I  do  not  read  anonymous  letters. 
When  they  come  in  I  just  throw  them 
into  the  wastebasket.  I  only  read 
enough  of  the  signed  scurrilous  letters 
that  are  sent  to  know  that  they  are  scur- 
rilous, and  then  they  follow  along.  So 
it  is  useless  for  anyone  to  try  to  take  out 
any  personal  feeling  in  that  way. 

You  and  I  have  heard  all  our  lives 
that  the  time  may  come  when  the  Con- 
stitution may  hang  by  a  thread.  I  do 
not  know  whether  it  is  a  thread  or  a 
small  rope  by  which  it  now  hangs,  but 
I  do  know  that  whether  it  shall  live  or 
die  is  now  in  the  balance. 

I  have  said  to  you  before,  brethren, 
that  to  me  the  Constitution  is  a  part  of 
my  religion.  In  its  place  it  is  just  as 
much  a  part  of  my  religion  as  any  other 
part.  It  is  a  part  of  my  religion  because 
it  is  one  of  those  institutions  which  God 
has  set  up  for  His  own  purposes,  and, 
as  one  of  the  brethren  said  today,  set 


First  Day 

up  so  that  this  Church  might  be  estab- 
lished, because  under  no  other  govern- 
ment in  the  world  could  the  Church 
have  been  established  as  it  has  been  es- 
tablished under  this  Government. 

I  think  I  would  be  safe  in  saying  that 
my  fellowship  with  you  in  the  Church 
depends  upon  whether  or  not  I  accept 
the  revelations  and  the  principles  which 
God  has  revealed.  If  I  am  not  willing 
to  do  that,  then  I  am  not  entitled  to  fel- 
lowship. Anyone  else  who  fails  to  ac- 
cept the  revelations  and  the  principles 
which  God  has  revealed  stands  in  pre- 
cisely the  same  situation. 

In  the  101st  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  contains  a  reve- 
lation received  by  the  Prophet  in  1833, 
when  the  persecution  in  Missouri  was 
at  its  highest,  the  Lord  told  the  breth- 
ren that  they  should  appeal  for  help. 
Then  He  added  these  verses,  which  I 
want  to  read  to  you: 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of 
the  people,  which  I  have  suffered  to  be  es- 
tablished, and  should  be  maintained  for  the 
rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh,  according 
to  just  and  holy  principles; 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and 
principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  according 
to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given 
unto  him,  that  every  man  may  be  account- 
able for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judg- 
ment. 

Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man 
should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established 
the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by  the  hands 
of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this 
very  purpose,  and  redeemed  the  land  by  the 
shedding  of  blood.    { D.  6  C.  1 01 :  77-80 ) 

Influence  in  the  Americas 

I  suppose  you  brethren  will  all  know, 
but  I  will  recall  it  to  your  attention,  that 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is 
the  basic  law  for  all  of  the  Americas,  or 
Zion,  as  it  has  been  defined  by  the  Lord. 

You  brethren  from  Canada  know  that 
your  great  British  North  America  Act, 
in  its  fundamental  principles,  is  based 
upon  our  Constitution,  and  you  know 
that  in  the  courts  of  Canada,  the  reports 
of  our  Supreme  Court,  and  our  Federal 
courts  generally,  are  just  as  persuasive 
as  the  decisions  of  the  courts  of  Eng- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


59 


land,  and  even  more  so,  where  ques- 
tions of  constitutional  law  and  consti- 
tutional interpretation  are  involved. 

You  brethren  also  know  that  from 
the  Rio  Grande  down  to  the  Horn  there 
is  no  constitutional  government  except 
those  that  are  founded  primarily  upon 
our  own  Constitution.  In  Mexico  the 
revolutionary  party  which  more  than  a 
century  and  a  quarter  ago  rebelled 
against  the  king  of  Spain  and  established 
a  republic,  copied  almost  verbatim,  and 
practically  overnight,  our  Constitution, 
and  made  it  their  own.  Neither  Mexi- 
co nor  the  others  to  the  South  interpret 
their  Constitutions  as  we  interpret  ours. 
They  have  different  standards  and  dif- 
ferent canons  of  interpretation,  for 
their  fundamental  system  is  the  civil 
law,  while  ours  is  the  common  law.  But 
the  great  essentials  of  that  document, 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States, 
which  God  Himself  inspired,  is  the  law 
of  Zion,  the  Americas. 

The  Law  of  Zion 

So,  brethren,  I  wish  you  to  under- 
stand that  when  we  begin  to  tamper 
with  the  Constitution  we  begin  to  tam- 
per with  the  law  of  Zion  which  God 
Himself  set  up,  and  no  one  may  trifle 
with  the  word  of  God  with  impunity. 

Now,  I  am  not  caring  today,  for  my- 
self, anything  at  all  about  a  political 
party  tag.  So  far  as  I  am  concerned, 
I  want  to  know  what  the  man  stands 
for.  I  want  to  know  if  he  believes  in 
the  Constitution;  if  he  believes  in  its 
free  institutions;  if  he  believes  in  its  lib- 
erties, its  freedom.  I  want  to  know  if 
he  believes  in  the  Bill  of  Rights.  I  want 
to  know  if  he  believes  in  the  separation 
of  sovereign  power  into  the  three  great 
divisions:  the  Legislative,  the  Judicial, 
the  Executive.    I  want  to  know  if  he  be- 


lieves in  the  mutual  independence  of 
these,  the  one  from  the  other.  When 
I  find  out  these  things,  then  I  know  who 
it  is  who  should  receive  my  support,  and 
I  care  not  what  his  party  tag  is,  because, 
brethren,  if  we  are  to  live  as  a  Church, 
and  progress,  and  have  the  right  to  wor- 
ship as  we  are  worshipping  here  today, 
we  must  have  the  great  guarantees  that 
are  set  up  by  our  Constitution.  There 
is  no  other  way  in  which  we  can  secure 
these  guarantees.  You  may  look  at  the 
systems  all  over  the  world  where  the 
principles  of  our  Constitution  are  not 
controlling  and  in  force,  and  you  will 
find  there  dictatorship,  tyranny,  oppres- 
sion, and,  in  the  last  analysis,  slavery. 

Allegiance 

I  have  said  enough.  I  believe  you 
understand  what  I  have  said.  Today, 
our  duty  transcends  party  allegiance; 
our  duty  today  is  allegiance  to  the  Con- 
stitution as  it  was  given  to  us  by  the 
Lord.  Every  federal  officer  takes  an 
oath  to  support  that  Constitution  so 
given.  The  difference  between  us  and 
some  of  those  to  the  South  of  us  is  this : 
down  there,  their  fealty  runs  to  indi- 
viduals; here,  our  fealty  and  our  alleg- 
iance run  to  the  Constitution  and  to  the 
principles  which  it  embodies,  and  not  to 
individuals. 

God  give  us  wisdom  and  enable  us 
in  these  times  of  trouble  and  strife  clear- 
ly to  see  our  way,  that  we  may  be  in- 
strumental in  sustaining  the  Constitu- 
tion, in  upholding  our  free  institutions, 
our  civil  rights,  our  freedom  of  speech, 
of  press,  of  religion,  and  of  conscience. 
If  we  shall  stand  together  we  shall  save 
the  Constitution,  just  as  has  been  fore- 
seen, and  if  we  do  not  stand  together, 
we  cannot  perform  this  great  task. 

God  grant  that  we  may  be  true,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

If  my  being  insistent  was  an  element  in  getting  you  that  message,  then 
I  am  happy,  for  I  know  you  are  deeply  grateful  for  it.  Let  us  take  that  mes- 
sage to  heart  and  profit  by  it  during  the  coming  three  months  especially. 

After  the  benediction  this  meeting  will  be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock 
tomorrow  morning.  Being  our  regular  fast  day,  we  invite  all  of  the  brethren 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  4  Second  Day 

to  come  fasting.  The  first  part  of  the  session  will  be  taken  up  with  sermons 
from  the  brethren,  the  national  broadcast  of  the  Choir  and  the  Church  of 
the  Air  program.  There  will  be  a  thirty-minute  intermission  between  1 2  and 
12:30.  The  afternoon  session  will  be  devoted  to  testimony-bearing.  The 
Sacrament  will  be  administered  by  the  General  Authorities  assisted  by  ap- 
proximately forty-five  presidents  of  High  Priests  Quorums.  Admission 
will  be  only  by  tickets.  Do  not  lose  your  tickets.  Do  not  forget  them. 

As  we  shall  go  on  the  air  at  10  o'clock  sharp,  everybody  should  be  in 
his  seat  no  later  than  9:50  a.  m.  All  Bishops  who  have  been  invited  to  as- 
sist in  passing  the  Sacrament  tomorrow  afternoon  will  please  come  forward 
immediately  at  the  close  of  this  meeting  for  final  instructions. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  God  From  Whom  All 
Blessings  Flow,"  after  which  the  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  William 
A.  Matheson,  President  of  the  Chicago  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  October  4,  at  10  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  October  4,  1942  in  the 
Tabernacle. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  morning  session  of  the  second  day  of  the  1 13th  Semi- An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  You 
will  be  interested  to  know  that  seventy-five  years  ago  today,  or  at  the  Oc- 
tober Conference,  the  great  Mormon  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City  was 
used  for  the  first  time.  That  was  the  38th  Semi- Annual  General  Conference 
of  the  Church  and  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  October  6th,  1867, 
President  Brigham  Young  presiding. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
and  his  two  Counselors,  members  of  the  Twelve,  the  Assistants  to  the 
Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric.  Assembled  in  the  Tabernacle,  and 
filling  this  historical  edifice  to  capacity  are  Presidencies  of  Stakes  and  for- 
mer Presidents  of  Stakes,  Patriarchs,  High  Councilmen,  Presidencies  of 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorums,  Bishoprics  of  Wards,  Mission  Presi- 
dents, Temple  Presidencies,  Presidencies  of  Independent  Branches,  Presi- 
dents of  Dependent  Branches,  Presidents  of  Stake  Missions,  the  General 
Committee  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan,  the  General  Superintendency  of 
Sunday  Schools,  the  General  Superintendency  of  the  Y.M.M.I.A.,  Presi- 
dents of  Church  and  Stake  Colleges.  We  believe  that  nearly  every  Stake  in 
the  Church  is  represented. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


61 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I'll  Go 
Where  You  Want  Me  to  Go." 

Elder  Stayner  Richards,  President  of  the  Highland  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  presiding  at  this  Conference.  At  his  re- 
quest the  exercises  will  be  conducted  by  his  second  counselor. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IN  the  public  press  appeared  a  state- 
ment recently  from  an  official  of  our 
Navy  that  we  are  losing  this  war 
and  that  we  do  not  know  it. 

If  I  express,  therefore,  some  rather 
intense  feelings  at  this  trying  and  ter- 
rible time  of  unprecedented  war  and 
bloodshed,  I  hope  I  may  be  forgiven. 
If  I  say  some  things  that  seem  to  be 
critical,  I  hope  you  who  listen  will  be 
good  enough  to  look  upon  my  asser- 
tions with  charity  and  regard  them 
merely  as  suggestions. 

A  good  many  years  ago  my  beloved 
friend,  the  late  Henry  van  Dyke,  put 
into  my  hands  one  of  his  poems  en- 
titled "Righteous  Wrath." 

This  poem  reads: 

There  are  many  kinds  of  hatred,  as  many 
kinds  of  Are; 

And  some  are  fierce  and  fatal  with  murder- 
ous desire; 

And  some  are  mean  and  craven,  revengeful, 
sullen,  slow, 

They  hurt  the  man  that  holds  them  more 
than  they  hurt  his  foe. 

And  yet  there  is  a  hatred  that  purifies  the 

heart: 
The  anger  of  the  better  against  the  baser 

part, 
Against  the  false,  the  wicked,  against  the 

tyrant's  sword, 
Against  the  enemies  of  love,  and  all  that 

hate  the  Lord. 

O  cleansing  indignation,  O  flame  of  right- 
eous wrath, 

Give  me  a  soul  to  feel  thee  and  follow  in 
thy  path! 

Save  me  from  selfish  virtue,  arm  me  for 
fearless  fight, 

And  give  me  strength  to  carry  on,  a  soldier 
of  the  Right! 


On  a  large  poster  in  the  Strater 
Hotel  of  Durango,  Colorado,  I  read 
recently  these  words: 

"We  consider  peace  a  catastrophe 
for  human  civilization." — Mussolini 

"We  shall  soon  have  our  storm 
troopers  in  America."— Hit ler 

"I  am  looking  forward  to  dictating 
peace  to  the  United  States  in  the  White 
House  in  Washington." — Admiral 
Yamamoio 

How  Unlike  Christianity 

I_Tow  unlike  the  Christian  teaching, 
"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself,"  or  the  spirit  of  the  immortal 
Lincoln  who  "with  malice  toward  none 
and  charity  for  all"  undertook  to  settle 
those  great  issues  for  which  thousands 
had  struggled  on  the  battlefield. 

And  under  each  of  those  quotations 
in  the  Strater  Hotel  is  the  statement, 
"What  do  you  say,  America?"  And 
that  is  the  question  I  ask  you  citizens 
of  the  United  States:  What  do  you 
say? 

As  an  American  citizen  I  say  these 
statements  fill  me  with  that  "righteous 
wrath"  of  which  Henry  van  Dyke 
speaks.  But  with  deliberation  let  us 
examine  some  of  the  conditions  in  our 
country  today. 

The  Matter  of  Repeal 

T~\uring  the  years  1932  and  1933,  the 
people  of  our  nation  voted  to  re- 
peal the  Eighteenth  Amendment  to  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  and 
to  repeal  also  all  our  prohibition  laws. 
Will  I  be  unpatriotic  if  I  say  to  you 


62 

Sunday,  October  4 

that  this  action  filled  me  with  "right- 
eous wrath"?  The  people  did  not  then 
nor  will  they  ever  repeal  that  law  of 
nature  which  makes  alcohol  a  poison. 
Nor  did  the  people  then  nor  will  they 
ever  repeal  that  law  of  God  which 
says,  "Strong  drinks  are  not  good  for 
man." 

In  those  days  the  strategy  of  many 
of  our  political  leaders  seemed  to  be 
that  we  could  drink  ourselves  into 
sobriety.  Ask  the  mothers  and  the 
widows  and  the  fatherless  children  of 
the  three  thousand  whose  lives  were 
lost  at  Pearl  Harbor  December  7th  if 
that  strategy  was  correct.  Many  of 
those  three  thousand,  as  I  have  been 
told  by  soldiers  who  were  there,  were 
killed  by  our  own  bombs  because  of 
the  inefficiency  of  our  own  men,  which 
inefficiency  was  due  to  the  use  of  al- 
coholic beverages.  Are  the  leaders  of 
our  nation  and  those  at  the  head  of  our 
armed  forces  today  proceeding  on  the 
theory  that  we  can  drink  ourselves  into 
victory?  Alcohol  and  war  will  not 
mix  any  more  successfully  than  do 
alcohol  and  gasoline.  Ask  the  loved 
ones  of  those  thousands  who  have  lost 
their  lives  on  our  highways  because  of 
the  use  of  liquor  what  they  think  oJ 
mixing  alcohol  and  gasoline. 

The  Word  of  God 

T  atter-day  Saints  believe  the  Book 
of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 
This  sacred  record  of  recently  revealed 
truth  tells  us  that  the  Lord  Himself  has 
prepared  this  land  of  America  as  a  land 
choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  that 
inasmuch  as  the  people  on  this  land 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
they  shall  prosper.  (I  Nephi  2:20) 
This  land,  the  divine  record  says,  has 
been  provided  for  a  righteous  people. 
(Ether  2:7)  and  whatsoever  nation 
shall  possess  it  shall  be  free  from  bond- 
age, free  from  captivity  and  free  from 
all  other  nations  under  heaven  on  con- 
dition that  the  people  will  but  serve  the 
God  of  this  land  who  is  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  (Ether  2:12) 

These  stirring  promises  of  the  Al- 
mighty are  to  be  effective  for  the  in- 
habitants of  this  land  only  if  the  in- 
habitants are  a  righteous  people.    This 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

land,  the  revealed  word  says,  has  been 
prepared  and  preserved  by  the  Lord 
Himself  (Ether  2:7)  and  that  whoso 
should  possess  it  "henceforth  and  for- 
ever" must  serve  the  true  and  living 
God  or  they  will  be  "swept  away" 
when  they  are  "ripened  in  iniquity." 
(Ether  2:9)  Let  me  ask,  are  we  serv- 
ing the  true  and  the  living  God  or  are 
we  ripening  in  iniquity? 

Immorality  and  Our  Armed  Forces 

TVTore  of  the  men  in  our  armed  forces, 
it  has  been  said,  are  rendered  un- 
fit to  fight  because  of  venereal  diseases 
than  from  all  other  causes  put  together. 
And  it  is  said  also  that  for  seventy- 
seven  days  after  December  7  prohibi- 
tion was  in  force  at  Pearl  Harbor. 
During  the  next  thirty  days  after  pro- 
hibition was  discontinued  by  military 
order,  the  number  of  arrests  for  drunk- 
enness at  Pearl  Harbor  was  more  than 
six  times  the  average  during  the  seven- 
ty-seven days  of  prohibition. 

When  I  think  of  Pearl  Harbor  and 
the  American  lives  which  that  disaster 
cost,  I  am  filled  to  overflowing  with 
that  "righteous  wrath"  of  which  I  have 
spoken.  Let  me  say  with  J.  Frank 
Hanley,  I  bear  no  malice  toward  those 
engaged  in  the  liquor  business,  much 
less  toward  those  young  men  who.  in 
society,  by  example  or  otherwise  have 
been  taught  to  drink,  but  I  do  hate  the 
liquor  traffic.  I  hate  it  as  virtue  hates 
vice,  as  truth  hates  error,  as  righteous- 
ness hates  sin,  as  justice  hates  wrong, 
as  liberty  hates  tyranny,  as  freedom 
hates  oppression.  I  hate  it  for  its  in- 
tolerance. I  hate  it  for  its  hypocrisy. 
I  hate  it  for  its  commercialism,  for  its 
greed  and  for  its  avarice  and  for  its 
sordid  love  of  gain  at  any  price.  I 
hate  it  for  its  domination  of  politics;  I 
hate  it  for  its  corrupting  influence  in 
civic  affairs  and  for  the  cowards  it 
makes  of  public  men.  I  hate  it  for  the 
load  it  straps  on  the  back  of  labor  and 
for  the  wounds  it  gives  to  genius.  I 
hate  it  for  the  multitudes  of  human 
wrecks  it  has  made  of  men  of  out- 
standing ability  and  promise,  for  the 
prisons  it  has  filled,  for  the  insanity 
that  it  begets  and  for  the  countless 
graves  it  has  made  in  potter's  fields.    I 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


63 


hate  it  for  the  mental  ruin  which  it  im- 
poses upon  its  victims  and  for  its  moral 
degradation.  I  hate  it  for  the  crimes 
that  it  commits,  for  the  homes  that  it 
destroys,  and  for  the  hearts  that  it 
breaks.  I  hate  it  for  the  grief  it  causes 
womanhood,  for  the  scalding  tears  of 
women,  for  their  hopes  deferred,  for 
their  strangled  aspirations,  for  the 
burden  of  want  and  care  which  liquor 
heaps  upon  them.  I  hate  it  for  its 
heartless  cruelty  to  the  aged,  the  in- 
firm, and  the  helpless.  I  hate  it  for  the 
shadow  it  throws  upon  the  lives  of 
children,  for  its  monstrous  injustice  to 
multitudes  of  the  blameless  little  ones. 
"I  hate  it,"  concludes  Frank  Hanley,  "as 
Abraham  Lincoln  hated  slavery.  .  .  . 
And  I  sometimes  seem  to  see  the  end  of 
this  unholy  traffic,  the  coming  of  the 
time  when,  if  it  does  not  wholly  cease 
to  be,  it  shall  find  no  safe  habitation 
anywhere  beneath  Old  Glory's  stainless 
stars." 

"On  Fire  for  God  and  for  Right" 

T^he  great  "Flying  Squadron"  that 
visited  every  state  in  the  Union,  all 
of  the  states'  capitals  and  many  of  the 
other  important  cities  of  our  country 
in  the  latter  part  of  1914  and  the  be- 
ginning of  1915,  delivered  stirring  ad- 
dresses in  two  hundred  fifty-five  cities 
in  two  hundred  thirty-five  days.  These 
addresses  were  heard  by  a  million  peo- 
ple, it  is  said.  Their  slogan  was,  '  We 
stand  for  the  abolition  of  the  liquor 
traffic.  On  this  issue  we  fight.  When- 
ever a  politician  or  an  executive  of- 
ficer or  a  political  party  prefers  the 
liquor  traffic  above  the  public  morals, 
such  men  must  be  set  aside  and  such 
parties  abandoned.  To  the  accom- 
plishment of  this  high  purpose,"  they 
said,  "we  dedicate  ourselves." 

This  group  of  sixteen  speakers  of 
commanding  eloquence  and  personal 
force  were  all  "on  fire  for  God  and  for 
the  right."  The  name  of  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  might  very  appropriate- 
ly be  added  to  this  list  of  distinguished 
prohibitionists,  for  he  and  these  other 
unselfish  and  effective  workers  gripped 
the  hearts  of  thousands  of  the  young 
and  of  the  old  throughout  the  country 
and  gave  to  their  hearers  a  clearer  and 


a  bigger  vision  of  true  Christian  citizen- 
ship. 

We  have  now  unsheathed  the  sword 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and 
we  have  carried  into  this  great  world 
conflict  "the  only  flag  in  all  the  world 
that  has  never  known  defeat."  To 
complete  the  mighty  task  to  which  we 
have  set  our  hands,  to  make  the  future 
better  than  the  past,  to  create  a  better 
world  in  which  to  live,  "America  needs 
every  man  at  his  best."  Daniel  A. 
Poling  says  that  whatever  makes  for 
physical  incompetency  is  an  enemy  of 
the  state.  He  says  a  moral  incom- 
petent cannot  be  a  good  citizen,  an  in- 
dustrial incompetent  cannot  be  a  good 
citizen,  a  political  incompetent  cannot 
be  a  good  citizen,  and  he  adds  that  the 
liquor  institution  is  the  supreme  tangible 
foe  of  the  state  because  it  is  the  supreme 
positive  promoter  of  physical,  moral, 
industrial,  and  political  incompetency. 
He  says,  "Millions  of  citizens,  men  and 
women,  immediately  vital  to  the  na- 
tional and  world  program  of  this  re- 
public cannot  be  at  their  best  until  the 
liquor  institution  and  the  evils  con- 
nected with  it  are  destroyed."  Alco- 
hol was  once  regarded  as  a  food,  later 
as  a  stimulant.  All  scientists  agree  to- 
day that  alcohol  is  a  narcotic.  Its. ef- 
fects upon  the  human  system  are  the 
same  as  those  of  ether  and  chloroform. 
Alcohol,  a  poison,  is  the  greatest  phy- 
sical menace  of  the  human  race.  Who 
would  care  to  converse  even  with  his 
best  and  most  intimate  friend  if  that 
friend  were  drunk  or  even  tipsy. 

Another  Drink  of  Whiskey 

The  only  thing  that  a  drink  of  whiskey 
ever  suggests  is  another  drink  of  whiskey. 
Whiskey  never  suggested  to  a  drunkard  that 
he  buy  shoes  for  his  children  or  furniture 
for  his  house,  but  it  has  suggested  to  crea- 
tures, once  men,  that  they  take  the  shoes 
from  the  feet  of  their  babies,  the  furniture 
from  their  scantily  supplied  house  to  buy 
more  whiskey. 

Prohibition  is  patriotic  because  it  has 
proved  itself  to  be  a  true  friend  of 
labor  and  a  true  friend  of  capital.  Rome 
did  not  die  for  lack  of  college  and  pub- 
lic games,  for  the  want  of  culture  and 
refined  society,  or  because  she  had  no 
army  or  no  navy.     Rome  died  when 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

she  rotted  at  the  heart.     Rome  com- 
mitted moral  and  political  suicide. 
Said  Poling: 

I  fear  no  yellow  peril,  I  fear  no  foe  that 
may  embark  from  a  foreign  shore  to  do  us 
hurt.  I  fear  only  the  foe  from  within,  this 
shackler  of  bodies,  this  impoverisher  of  in- 
dustry, this  moral  despoiler,  this  corrupter 
of  government  which  is  called  alcohol. 

And  may  we  ever  remember  the  sad 
lesson  our  country  has  learned  that 
statutory  legislation  and  constitutional 
amendments  are  helpless  in  the  hands 
of  unfriendly  and  indifferent  political 
administrations.  To  our  sorrow  we 
have  learned  that  prohibitory  law  is  not 
an  automatic  machine.  A  tool  must  be 
used.  An  ax  calls  for  a  man  to  wield 
it.  Prohibition  demands  an  administra- 
tion that  will  enforce  it. 

Prohibition  Laws  Not  Automatic 
■p\UTY  and  patriotism  today  demand 
that  by  legislation  or  otherwise  we 
do  something  to  protect  against  them- 
selves our  fine  and  innocent  young  men, 
especially  those  who  are  serving  as 
soldiers  of  our  country.  When  in  a 
doctor's  office  the  father  of  a  young 
man  was  informed  that  his  son  had  a 
venereal  disease,  the  father  let  loose 
his  uncontrollable  temper  and  berated 
the  boy  because  of  the  boy's  condition. 
Soon,  however,  the  tables  were  turned, 
according  to  the  doctor's  story,  so 
that  the  father  was  seated,  and  the  boy 
was  standing.  It  was  then  clearly 
evident  that  all  the  temper  in  the  family 
was  not  in  the  father. 

"Who  is  to  blame  for  my  condi- 
tion?" shouted  the  boy.  "You  are  old 
and  I  am  young.  You  knew  and  I  did 
not.  You  had  the  information  and  1 
was  in  ignorance.  You  are  the  father 
and  I  am  the  son.  Why  didn't  you 
teach  me,  why  didn't  you  warn  me,  why 
didn't  you  protect  me!  I  didn't  know 
there  was  such  a  thing  in  the  world 


Second  Day 

as  this  disease.  You  are  the  one," 
shouted  the  boy,  "that  is  responsible 
for  my  condition."  No  nation  can  en- 
dure indefinitely  with  a  manhood  af- 
flicted with  venereal  disease  and  the 
liquor  habit.  The  great  need  of  our 
country  is  spiritual  awakening.  While 
our  motto  is,  "In  God  We  Trust,"  yet 
as  Babson  says,  World  Wars  I  and  II 
have  come  about  because  the  leading 
nations  during  the  last  fifty  years  have 
been  trying  to  get  along  without  God. 
If  this  war  is  to  be  fought  to  a  finish 
it  will  end  only  when  we  repent  of  our 
sins,  readjust  our  wasteful  standards 
of  living,  and  once  more  make  God  the 
Eternal  Father  the  ruler  of  our  homes, 
our  schools,  our  businesses,  and  our 
nation. 

Have  We  Forgotten  God? 
Touring  our  Civil  War,  Abraham  Lin- 

coin  said  the  great  difficulty  with 
our  country  and  our  people  was,  "We 
had  forgotten  God."  In  a  modern  re- 
velation to  you  and  to  me  and  to  the 
people  of  this  generation  the  Lord, 
speaking  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  has  said,  "Behold,  the  world  is 
ripening  in  iniquity;  and  it  must  needs 
be  that  the  children  of  men  are  stirred 
•up  unto  repentance."  (D.  &  C.  18:6) 
Let  us  therefore  as  a  nation  return  to 
church,  let  us  partake  worthily  of  the 
sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  let  us 
come  into  closest  possible  communion 
and  cooperation  with  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  pray  that  freedom  and  lib- 
erty, that  gift  of  God  by  us  so  highly 
prized,  may  come  to  all  the  people  of  all 
nations  of  the  earth.  And  I  pray  humbly 
that  we  in  this  land,  choice  above  all 
other  lands,  may  be  a  righteous  people 
who  deserve  the  blessings  the  Almighty 
has  promised  to  those  who  love  Him 
and  serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, and  I  do  this  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


During  the  period  from  10:30  to 
11:00  a.m.,  the  regular  weekly 
nationwide  broadcast  of  choral 
and  organ  music  and  brief  spoken  com- 
ment was  presented  as  part  of  the  Gen- 


eral Conference  proceedings.  This  pro- 
gram, which  completed  its  thirteenth 
year  of  continuous  nationwide  broad- 
casting in  July  of  this  year,  was  pres- 
ented by  the  Tabernacle  choir  and  or- 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


65 


gan,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy 
and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System's  coast-to-coast  net- 
work, throughout  the  United  States. 
The  broadcast,  written  and  announced 
by  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  originated 
with  radio  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  was  presented  as  follows : 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 
BROADCAST 

10:30-11:00  a.m.   MWT 
Sunday,  October  4,  1942 

Choir  hummed  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred 
Strain"  for  announcer's  background: 

Richard  L.  Evans:  We  pause  once  more 
from  the  hurried  ways  of  life  to  beckon  your 
thoughts  again  unto  the  hills.  As  we  wel- 
come you  within  the  peace  and  quiet  of  these 
walls,  Columbia  presents  again  the  music 
of  the  Tabernacle  choir  and  organ  from 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  This  is 
the  690th  performance  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West, 
now  in  its  fourteenth  consecutive  year  of 
nationwide  presentation. 

The  choir  is  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the 
organ. 

We  begin  with  one  of  the  cherished 
hymns  of  the  inland  West — a  hymn  that 
has  called  men  and  women  to  renewed  pur- 
pose these  many  decades  past:  "Come, 
come,  ye  saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear." 

(Choir  sang  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints" — 
Clayton) 

Evans:  As  we  -continue  from  Temple 
Square  we  give  place  to  the  solo  voice  of 
the  organ,  which  recalls  from  out  of  its 
seventeenth  century  setting  a  "Trumpet 
Tune  and  Air"  by  Henry  Purcell. 

(Organ  presented  "Trumpet  Tune  and 
Air"— Purcell) 

Evans:  Voices  are  raised  now  in  quiet 
supplication  to  the  Father  of  all  men  as 
Richard  Condie  and  the  Tabernacle  choir 
sing  the  hymn  by  Roger  Quilter:  "Lead  us, 
Heavenly  Father,  lead  us,  o'er  the  world's 
tempestuous  sea;  Guide  us,  guard  us,  keep 
us,  for  we  have  no  help  but  Thee." 

(Choir  presented  "Lead  Us  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther" by  Quilter) 

(Without  announcement  organ  modulated 
into  "Deep  River,"  arranged  by  Asper) 

Evans:  These  words  from  David  of  Is- 
rael are  recalled  in  a  text  from  the  Twenty- 


fourth  Psalm:  "Who  shall  ascend  into  the 
hill  of  the  Lord?  or  who  shall  stand  in  his 
holy  place?  He  that  hath  clean  hands,  and 
a  pure  heart;  who  hath  not  lifted  up  his  soul 
unto  vanity,  nor  sworn  deceitfully."  (Psalm 
24:3-4)  The  musical  setting  is  by  J.  A. 
Parks  and  is  sung  by  Jessie  Evans  Smith 
and  the  Tabernacle  choir. 

(Choir   sang    "The   King    of    Glory" — 
Parks) 

Religion  On  Trial 

President  Evans:  We  live  in  a  day 
when  every  standard  of  value  is  being 
challenged,  and  religion  has  not  escaped 
the  challenge.  Perhaps  this  is  because 
men  have  asked  too  much  of  religion 
and  too  little  of  themselves.  Many  have 
supposed  that  a  mere  creed  or  code  of 
belief,  or  statute  of  doctrines  and  dog- 
mas, would  take  the  place  of  self-effort 
and  self-mastery.  Some  have  known 
the  law  but  have  not  lived  it.  Some 
have  not  even  bothered  to  know  the 
law,  but  have  left  such  knowledge  to 
others,  and  have  worshiped  once  re- 
moved, if  at  all.  Some  have  placed 
convenience  above  truth.  Some  have 
permitted  man-made  sophistries  to 
supplant  the  revealed  word  in  their 
thinking  and  in  their  living.  By  some 
it  has  been  supposed  that  religion  was 
a  system  whereby  men  could  have  set 
aside  the  consequences  of  their  own 
doings — another  form  of  the  false  phil- 
osophy of  getting  something  for 
nothing.  And  so,  perhaps  we  should 
determine  once  and  for  all  what  we  may 
rightly  expect  religion  to  do  for  us,  and 
then  judge  its  effectiveness  or  ineffec- 
tiveness by  that  standard.  It  should  not 
be  expected  to  give  us  ease  without  ef- 
fort, or  knowledge  without  study,  or 
truth  without  search.  We  should  not 
expect  it  to  offer  reward  without  work, 
peace  without  repentance,  blessings 
without  obedience,  or  exaltation  here- 
after without  justifying  our  existence 
here.  The  Savior  of  the  world  gave  us 
an  indication  of  what  we  should  expect 
of  religion,  when  He  spoke  of  the  "wise 
man  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock : 
and  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods 
came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and  beat  up- 
on that  house;  and  it  fell  not."  But  the 
house  of  the  foolish  man  was  built  upon 


\ 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

the  sand,  "and  it  fell:  and  great  was  the 
fall  of  it."  (Matthew  7:24-27)  The 
implication  is  plain.  The  floods  and  the 
winds  came  alike  to  the  wise  and  the 
foolish.  But  one  stood  the  onslaught, 
and  the  other  fell  before  it.  And  that  is 
what  we  should  expect  of  religion — not 
that  it  should  spare  us  the  varied  ex- 
periences of  living,  but  that  it  should 
help  us  to  understand  them  and  sustain 
us  through  them;  help  us  to  grow  be- 
yond them,  and  prepare  us  for  yet  great- 
er things.  No  man  escapes  all  the 
vicissitudes  of  life — but  he  who  has 
isolated  himself  from  spiritual  under- 
standing, frequently  breaks  under  the 
strain,  and  is  brought  low  in  the  anguish 
of  his  own  bitterness  and  in  the  blind- 
ness of  his  own  unwillingness  to  see. 
But  this  uncertain  groping  and  sense  of 
defeat  are  they  spared  whose  lives  have 
been  shaped  by  the  principles  and  pow- 
er of  religion,  pure  and  undeflled — by 
the  everlasting  truth  of  things  both  pres- 
ent and  yet  to  come. 

(Without  announcement  organ  modulated 
into  "How  Great  the  Wisdom  and  the 
Love"  by  Mclntyre) 

Evans:  "How  Great  the  Wisdom  and 
the  Love"  was  the  hymn  just  now  spoken 
by  the  voice  of  the  Tabernacle  organ. 


Second  Day 

And  how  we  close  from  these  valley-lands 
of  the  mountains  as  the  choir  takes  up  the 
moving  march  of  a  hymn  that  compels  the 
hearts  of  men  and  is  cherished  the  world 
over:   "Onward  Christian  Soldiers." 

(Choir  presented  "Onward  Christian  Sol- 
diers' ' — Sullivan ) 

(Choir  sang  "Gently  Raise"  and  organ 
modulated  into  "As  the  Dew") 

Evans:  This  Sabbath  Hour  from  the 
Crossroads  of  the  West  is  ended.  Until  we 
beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills, 
may  peace  be  with  you  this  day — and  al- 
ways. 

(Pause) 

This  has  been  the  690th  of  these  tradition- 
al broadcasts,  presented  each  week  by  the 
Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square. 

When  the  happenings  of  another  seven 
days  have  woven  themselves  into  the  pat- 
tern of  life,  music  and  the  spoken  word 
will  be  heard  again  from  Temple  Square  at 
this  same  hour  next  Sunday,  originating  with 
Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  choir  was 
conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Dr. 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ;  the 
spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

This  is  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Sys- 
tem. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 


Immediately  after  the  conclusion  of 
the  traditional  nationwide  Taber- 
nacle broadcast,  Sunday  morning, 
October  4,  an  additional  thirty-minute 
period,  regularly  known  as  the  Colum- 
bia Church  of  the  Air,  was  presented 
from  11:00  to  11:30  a.m.,  over  the  na- 
tionwide Columbia  network  as  a  part  of 
the  proceedings  of  this  session  of  the 
conference.  President  David  O. 
McKay,  second  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  delivered  the  address. 
The  program  was  conducted  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  whose  con- 
tinuity follows: 

Theme:    "Sweet  is  the  Work" — McClel- 
lan — Organ   and   humming  voices. 

Richard  L.  Evans:     Columbia's  Church 
of  the  Air. 


Evans:  A  decade  ago  the  Church  of  the 
Air  was  brought  into  being  by  the  Columbia 
network  to  give  opportunity  to  representa- 
tives of  the  major  faiths  to  bring  their 
messages  to  a  nationwide  congregation  of 
worshipers.  Since  that  time  these  religious 
services  have  been  heard  twice  each  Sun- 
day. Today,  in  the  twelfth  year  of  the 
Church  of  the  Air,  the  service  comes  to 
you  through  Station  KSL  as  part  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  113th  Semi-annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  now  in  session.  The 
service  originates  in  the  Mormon  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  the  congregation  which  fills  the  Taber- 
nacle includes  the  General  Authorities  and 
representatives  of  the  worldwide  Priesthood 
organizations  of  the  Church.  The  speaker 
will  be  President  David  O.  McKay,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Presidency. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  joins  in  the  serv- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


67 


ice  and  will  sing  now  "O  Light  Divine"  by 
LeRoy  Frisby. 

(Choir  sings,  "O  Light  Divine" — Frisby) 

Evans:     We  now  turn  the  service  into 


the  hands  of  President  David  O.  McKay  of 
the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  subject 
of  President  McKay's  address:  "The  Light 
that  Shines  in  Darkness." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


"W! 


alk  while  ye  have  the  light, 
lest  darkness  come  upon 
you :  for  he  that  walketh  in 
darkness  knoweth  not  whither  he 
goeth." 

That  solicitous  admonition  given 
by  the  Savior  of  men  is  as  pertinent 
today  as  when  it  was  first  expressed. 
Men  and  nations  having  refused  to 
walk  in  the  Light  now  as  Jesus  said 
stumble  in  darkness  and  know  not 
whither  they  go.  Motivated  for  cen- 
turies largely  by  selfish  interests,  the 
human  race,  judging  from  present 
world  conditions,  is  still  dangerously 
near  the  jungle  where  primitive  pas- 
sions dominate  and  govern. 

There  is  a  mythical  Greek  tale 
that  Charon  was  permitted  once  up- 
on a  time  to  visit  the  earth  to  see 
what  men  were  doing.  From  a  lofty 
eminence  he  looked  over  the  cities, 
palaces,  and  other  works  of  men.  As 
he  turned  to  resume  his  assigned 
task,  he  exclaimed:  "These  human 
beings  are  spending  their  time  in 
building  just  birds'  nests.  No  won- 
der they  fail  and  are  ashamed." 

Men  today  in  far  too  great  an  ex- 
tent are  not  only  spending  their  time 
with  things  which  have  no  perma- 
nent value,  but  ruthlessly  destroying 
much  that  they  have  built  through- 
out the  centuries.  War  is  making 
the  earth  a  shambles.  Churches,  pal- 
aces, cottages,  hospitals  in  many 
parts  of  the  globe  lie  in  ruins  as  if 
shakenby  a  terrible  earthquake.  As 
accompaniment  to  this  destruction 
there  is  a  pall  of  night  which  seems 
to  be  enveloping  nations  as  an  im- 
penetrable   fog — a    darkness    that 


springs  from  Hate;  for,  "He  that 
hateth  his  brother  is  in  darkness,  and 
walketh  in  darkness,  and  knoweth 
not  whither  he  goeth,  because  that 
darkness  hath  blinded  his  eyes." 

During  this  very  hour  while  we 
reverently  worship  the  God  of  Heav- 
en, millions  of  men  lie  wounded, 
bleeding,  maimed,  many  disabled  for 
life  by  the  hands  of  their  fellow  men. 
Other  millions  sleep  in  death,  many 
in  unknown  graves,  some  in  no 
graves,  their  bodies  trampled  by  sav- 
age feet  stumbling  forward  toward 
a  coveted  and  selfish  goal.  Not  only 
men  but  women — mothers  lying  life- 
less clasping  their  babes  even  in 
death.  Truly  it  seems  that  "Dark- 
ness covers  the  earth,  and  gross 
darkness  the  people." 

Men  Have  Forgotten  God 

Why  this  worldwide  holocaust? 
Why  this  mad  orgy  of  death?  Be- 
cause man  is  acting  contrary  to 
eternal  principles  of  Right! 

In  words  quite  as  applicable  today 
as  when  he  declared  them,  the  im- 
mortal Lincoln  gives  the  answer  as 
f  ollows : 

We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choic- 
est bounties  of  Heaven.  We  have  been 
preserved  these  many  years,  in  peace  and 
prosperity.  We  have  grown  in  numbers, 
wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has 
ever  grown;  but  we  have  forgotten  God. 
We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which 
preserved  us  in  peace,  and  multiplied  and 
enriched  and  strengthened  us;  and  we  have 
vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our 
hearts,  that  all  these  blessings  were  pro- 
duced by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue 
of  our  own.    Intoxicated  with  unbroken  sue- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

cess,  we  have  become  too  self-sufficient  to 
feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming  and  preserv- 
ing grace,  too  proud  to  pray  to  God  that 
made  us.  It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble 
ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  to  con- 
fess our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clem- 
ency and  forgiveness. 

I  still  have  confidence  that  the  Almighty, 
the  Maker  of  the  Universe,  will,  through  the 
instrumentality  of  this  great  and  intelligent 
people,  bring  us  through  this  as  he  has 
through  all  other  difficulties  of  our  country. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the 
Lord  says: 

If  you  keep  not  my  commandments,  the 
love  of  the  Father  shall  not  continue  with 
you,  therefore,  you  shall  walk  in  darkness. 

The  Antithesis  of  Christ's 
Teachings 

No  one  can  doubt  that  the  seeds 
of  this  war  found  nourishment  in  soil 
of  hatred  and  dishonor,  which  are 
the  antithesis  of  Christ's  teachings. 
The  Conversations  of  Munich,  for 
example,  were  followed  by  viola- 
tions of  agreement  and  broken  prom- 
ises; the  invasion  of  Poland  was 
prompted  by  covetousness  and  car- 
ried out  by  the  fiendish  power  of 
conquest;  the  attack  of  Pearl  Harbor 
was  conceived  in  treachery  and  de- 
ceit; Czechoslovakia,  Greece,  and 
other  nations,  too  weak  to  withstand 
the  onslaught,  have  been  cruelly 
crushed  by  the  forces  of  one  who 
had  defiantly  rejected  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth and  His  teachings.  So  the  list 
can  be  lengthened,  showing  how 
principles  of  Right  have  been  vio- 
lated, and  how  Hate  has  plundered 
and  destroyed. 

Men  Groping  Blindly,  Aimlessly 

The  serious  effect  of  all  this  is  far 
reaching.  Men's  confidence  is  shak- 
en in  political  forms  of  government. 
In  uncertainty  they  begin  to  ques- 
tion the  promised  security  of  well- 
tried  and  fundamental  principles. 
They  see  the  discoveries  and  inven- 
tions of  science  prostituted  as  a 
means  of  human  destruction.     Old 


,  Second  Day 

beliefs  and  ideals  are  toppling,  and 
as  a  drowning  man  seizes  a  floating 
substance,  men  and  women  grasp 
at  any  new  idea  or  theory  that  is 
thrown  as  a  bait  in  this  sea  of  con- 
fusion. 

The  upsetting  of  the  world  has 
forced  us  into  war,  and  we  should 
be  recreant  not  to  go  forward.  To 
our  soldier  boys  wherever  you  are 
we  say  God  bless  and  guide  you  as 
you  defend  the  divinely-given  prin- 
ciples of  freedom.  May  the  Light 
of  Truth  and  the  power  to  resist 
evil  be  your  constant  companions. 
We  all  realize  with  you  that  you 
are  enlisted  in  a  war  against 
wickedness,  and  that  peace  cannot 
come  until  the  mad  gangsters  having 
In  their  hands  science-produced  ex- 
plosives, mechanized  equipment,  and 
giant  tanks,  are  defeated  and  branded 
as  murderers,  and  their  false  aims  re- 
pudiated, let  us  hope  forever.  Yes,  the 
conflict  must  continue  though  its  aims 
and  purposes  to  many  seem  terribly 
complicated,  and  the  establishment  of 
a  just  peace,  a  task  as  herculean  as  the 
terminating  of  the  war  itself. 

The  Need  of  a  Guiding  Light 

f~\v  the  ultimate  victory  for  Free- 
^  dom,  we  must  not  doubt;  nor  har- 
bor either  discouragement  or  despair. 
As  after  every  night,  even  in  the  dark- 
ness, rises  the  morning  star,  so  now  in 
the  midst  of  the  blackness  of  inter- 
national hatred  and  bloody  conflict, 
men  may  behold  a  Light  heralding  a 
new  day,  if  they  will  but  look  through 
the  eyes  of  Reason  and  Common  Sense. 
Statesmen,  men  of  science,  thinking 
men  in  all  nations,  laymen  everywhere 
sense  the  need  of  something  definite  to 
which  to  look  forward,  some  clear  bea- 
con that  will  guide  the  stranded  nations 
to  a  safe  harbor  of  permanent  peace.  As 
practical  steps  toward  that  goal  they 
say:  (1)  mete  out  just  punishment  to 
villains  and  murderers;  (2)  make  res- 
toration of  sovereign  rights  to  those 
who  have  been  deprived  of  them  by 
force;  (3)  secure  equal  enjoyment  by 
all  nations  of  world  trade  and  materials 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


W 


needed  for  prosperity;  (4)  establish 
improved  labor  standards,  economic 
advancement,  and  social  security  for 
all;  (5)  declare  a  peace  assuring  safety 
and  tranquility  the  world  over;  (6) 
grant  freedom  of  the  seas  to  all;  (7) 
exact  promise  of  abandonment  by  all 
nations  of  the  use  of  force,  and  of  dis- 
armament of  aggressive  nations  pend- 
ing the  establishment  of  general  securi- 
ty— these  and  other  expressed  aims  are 
worthy  ideals  and  point  to  the  fact  that 
generally  in  men's  hearts  there  is  a  de- 
sire to  treat  fairly  their  fellow  men. 

The  One  and  Safe  Guide 

Tn  all  such  seeking,  however,  there  is 
*■  one  idea  indispensable  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  permanent  peace  which 
too  many  men  and  some  nations  have 
obliterated  from  their  minds  entirely, 
but  which  now  should  be  reburnished 
until  it  shines  as  the  unclouded  noon- 
day sun.  I  call  it  an  idea,  having  in 
mind  the  fact  that  "there  is  more  dyna- 
mite in  an  idea  than  in  many  bombs." 
It  is  as  old  as  the  Lord's  first  message 
to  man,  and  some  of  you  listening  in 
will  call  it  trite — men  in  the  past  have 
entertained  it  for  a  time,  have  dallied 
with  it,  then  without  attempting  to 
make  it  a  reality  have  permitted  it  to 
drop  below  the  plane  of  consciousness, 
and  even  to  sink  into  the  abyss  of  un- 
belief. This  idea  so  frequently  men- 
tioned but  so  seldom  practiced,  con- 
notes things  which,  if  lost,  civilization 
itself  is  lost.  It  connotes  the  right  to 
live,  to  be  treated  decently,  to  be  kind- 
ly spoken  to,  to  enjoy  home,  to  love, 
and  to  be  loved.  It  connotes  strength 
to  defend  the  Right — sympathy  for 
those  who,  striving,  have  failed.  It 
connotes  justice  and  mercy.  It  turns 
the  eye  and  the  heart  from  beastly  pas- 
sions to  noble  aspirations. 

It  is  Christ's  plan  of  love  and  serv- 
ice— summarized  in  the  two  great  com- 
mandments: "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord 
thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and 
thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 

I  fully  realize  with  Professor  Wie- 
man  that 

When  one  looks  out  upon  the  human  race, 
the  way  it  has  come  and  the  way  it  must 


go,  and  sees  that  tiny  gate  so  obscure  that 
one  must  search  to  find  it,  and  so  lowly  that 
one  must  stoop  to  enter  it,  and  yet  the  only 
way  to  life,  the  only  escape  from  ruin  of 
mankind,  one  is  sobered.  .  .  .  And  yet  civ- 
ilization will  be  transitory  until  men  in  large 
numbers  go  this  way  of  love. 

For  two  thousand  years  and  even 
more,  nations  have  ignored,  and,  in 
many  instances,  repudiated  fundamen- 
tal principles  of  the  gospel.  Even  in  so- 
called  Christian  lands  men  have  spurned 
the  teachings  as  being  impractical.  The 
result  is  that  the  earth  has  literally 
been  drenched  with  blood. 

I  have  referred  to  the  present-day 
carnage,  even  to  think  of  which  makes 
everyone  gloomy  and  sick  at  heart,  to 
emphasize,  if  possible,  the  need  of  a 
drastic  change  in  men's  dealings  with 
one  another.  Never  has  there  been  a 
time  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  a 
change  for  the  better  was  so  impera- 
tive. Now,  if  ever,  as  the  scripture 
promises,  "a  nation  should  be  born  in 
a  day" — a  nation  of  men  and  women 
with  changed  hearts  and  changed  at- 
titudes. 

Since  rejection  of  Christ's  teachings 
has  resulted  in  disaster  and  useless 
bloodshed,  with  only  intermittent 
periods  of  respite  and  progress,  why 
in  the  name  of  reason  should  people 
not  be  willing  to  substitute  for  selfish 
aggrandizement  Christ's  principle  of 
brotherly  consideration?  As  a  first 
step,  for  example,  make  truly  appli- 
cable the  simple  injunction  of  putting 
one's  self  in  the  other  fellow's  place, 
the  surest  of  all  means  of  eliminating 
the  bitterness  that  characterizes  mis- 
understandings. 

Applicability  of  Christ's  Teachings 

■^To  thinking  person  can  say  truthfully 
**^  that  the  application  of  this  one 
simple  act  if  practiced  among  individ- 
uals and  nations  would  not  bring  about 
a  better  worldl 

Equally  effective  and  applicable  are 
His  teachings  regarding  the  value  and 
sacredness  of  human  life,  the  virtue  of 
forgiveness,  the  necessity  of  fair  deal- 
ing, His  condemnation  of  the  sin  of 
hypocrisy,  and  of  covetousness,  His 
teachings  regarding  the  saving  power 


70 

Sunday.  October  4 

of  love,  and  of  the  immortality  of  the 
soul.  His  doctrine  of  arbitration  as  a 
means  of  settling  difficulties  and  quar- 
rels if  applied  by  warring  nations  would 
in  itself  do  away  with  war. 

If  America  is  the  "melting  pot,"  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  crucible  in 
which  hate,  envy,  and  greed  are  con- 
sumed, and  good  will,  kindness,  and 
love  remain  as  inner  aspirations  by 
which  man  truly  lives  and  builds. 

Proclamation  of  Christ's 
Teachings 

HThe  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
■*■  day  Saints  believes  with  the  Proph- 
et Lehi  that  America  is  a  "land  of  prom- 
ise, a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands' 
— a  land  of  liberty  unto  those  who  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  But  "if  the 
day  shall  come  that  they  will  reject  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel,  the  true  Messiah 
their  Redeemer  and  their  God,  behold, 
the  judgments  of  him  that  is  just  shall 
rest  upon  them."  The  Church  believes, 
also,  that  before  the  end  of  wickedness 
shall  come,  and  wars  shall  be  no  more, 
"this  gospel  of  the  Kingdom  must  be 
preached  tp  all  the  world." 

The  Constitution  of  this  government 
was  written  by  men  who  accepted 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  Saviour  of  man- 
kind. Let  men  and  women  in  these 
United  States  then  continue  to  keep 
their  eyes  centered  upon  Him  who  ever 
shines  as  a  Light  to  all  the  world.  Men 
and  women  who  live  in  America,  "the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

land  of  Zion,"  have  a  responsibility 
greater  than  that  yet  borne  by  any 
other  people.  Theirs  the  duty,  the  obli- 
gation to  preserve  not  only  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  land  but  the  Christian 
principles  from  which  sprang  that  im- 
mortal document. 

With  the  appeals  for  freedom  that 
you  transmit  to  your  fellow-country- 
men across  the  seas,  send  also  in  mes- 
sages that  connote  a  sincerity  never 
before  expressed,  an  avowed  convic- 
tion that  Christ  is  the  Way,  the  Truth, 
the  Life,  the  only  safe  Guide  to  that 
haven  of  peace  for  which  men  and 
women  the  wide  world  over  are  earn- 
estly praying.  Thus  may  we  hope  that 
there  will  come  an  answer  to  the  pray- 
er: 

Peace  in  our  time,  O  Lord, 

To  all  the  peoples — Peace! 

Peace  that  shall  build  a  glad  new  world. 

And  make  for  life's  increase. 

O  living  Christ,  who  still 

Dost  all  our  burdens  share, 

Come  now  and  dwell  within  the  hearts 

Of  all  men  everywhere. 

To  this  end  let  members  of  the 
Church,  and  honest  men  in  every  clime 
accept,  not  as  an  abstract,  inapplicable 
saying,  but  as  an  eternal  and  guiding 
truth,  the  declaration  of  the  Redeemer: 
"I  am  the  light  of  the  world:  he  that 
followeth  me  shall  not  walk  in  dark- 
ness, but  shall  have  the  light  of  life.' 
Amen. 


(After  the  address  of  President  McKay 
and  the  singing  of  "See  the  Mighty  Angel 
Flying"  by  the  male  voices  of  the  choir,  the 
following  closing  announcement  was 
given:) 

Evans:  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  You 
have  been  attending  Columbia's  Church  of 
the  Air.  The  service  today  has  come  through 
Station  KSL,  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  as 
part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  113th  Semi- 
annual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  also  known  as 


the  Mormon  Church.  Filling  the  Tabernacle 
was  a  congregation  of  men  including  the 
General  Authorities  and  representatives  of 
the  worldwide  Priesthood  organizations  of 
the  Church.  The  speaker  was  President 
David  O.  McKay,  .a  member  of  the  First 
Presidency.  Copies  of  President  McKay's 
sermon,  "The  Light  that  Shines  in  Dark- 
ness," may  be  obtained  by  writing  to  the 
station  to  which  you  are  listening. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  joined  in  the  serv- 
ice with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting 
and  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 


At  the  request  of  President  McKay,  who  was  conducting  the  services, 
the  congregation  arose  and  joined  with  the  choir  in  singing  "O  Ye  Moun- 
tains High." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


71 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you 
that  I  know  that  we  are  engaged  in 
building  up  the  Kingdom  of  God 
on  earth  and  that  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  are  in  truth  with  fulness  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  restored 
to  the  earth  in  these  latter  days.  That 
testimony  is  strengthened  as  I  observe 
the  influence  of  the  Church  in  the  lives 
of  our  young  men  and  women  today. 

What  is  it  that,  having,  we  are  strong 
in  overcoming  temptations  and  person- 
al difficulties,  and  having  not,  we  are 
afraid,  weak,  and  an  easy  prey  to  the 
temptations  of  the  world? 

Often  during  the  past  few  weeks  I 
have  asked  myself  that  question,  dur- 
ing which  time  I  have  had  an  opportu- 
nity to  visit  many  of  our  young  Latter- 
day  Saint  boys  in  military  camps  in 
company  with  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Pres- 
ident Hugh  B.  Brown,  and  to  inquire 
after  many  others  whom  we  were  not 
privileged  to  see.  There  I  observed 
many  of  our  young  men  who  'were 
meeting  the  problems  of  their  strange 
environment  with  great  fortitude,  and 
were  optimistic  and  hopeful.  They 
were  maintaining  the  highest  Church 
standards.  They  were  applying  them- 
selves diligently  to  the  business  of 
military  training  and  were  steadily  ad- 
vancing in  rank.  They  were  seeing  in 
this  experience  a  great  opportunity  for 
missionary  work  among  their  fellow 
soldiers.  They  were  seeking  out  other 
Latter-day  Saint  boys  to  enjoy  with 
them,  whenever  possible,  the  sweet 
communion  of  a  sacred  hour  spent  in 
sacrament  meeting  or  in  a  study  of  the 
gospel  in  a  Mutual  Improvement  or- 
ganization. During  their  leisure  hours 
when  on  leave  of  absence  from  camp, 
they  were  finding  social  relaxation  in 
wholesome  associations  and  seemed  to 
be  little  affected  by  the  tawdry  and 
cheap  entertainment  that  beckons  in  the 
vicinity  of  nearly  every  armed  camp. 

'T'he  thought  has  often  been  expressed 

that  the  discontinuance  of  sending 

of  young  men  into  the  mission  field  un- 


til after  the  war  would  result  in  great 
spiritual  loss  to  the  Church,  but  after 
seeing  the  splendid  young  men  of  the 
Church — many  of  them  returned  mis- 
sionaries— and  the  work  they  are  do- 
ing in  armed  camps,  I  am  convinced 
that  upon  their  return  home  the  Church 
will  receive  a  great  spiritual  uplift  as 
these  young  men  bear  testimony  to  the 
guiding  hand  of  the  Lord  in  their  pre- 
servation and  of  the  good  that  they 
were  able  to  do. 

Others  there  were  who  were  melan- 
choly, and  discouraged,  who  seeming- 
ly had  yielded  to  the  deadly  fatalism  all 
too  often  found  among  soldiers.  These 
had  adopted  a  sort  of  indifference  and 
an  "Oh,  what's  the  use"  attitude  that 
finds  expression  in  the  army  song  they 
sing,  "We're  in  the  Army  Now."  These, 
it  was  observed,  are  the  ones  that  fre- 
quently yield  to  the  enticing  invitations 
that  induce  to  harmful  practices  and 
vices  and  are  encouraged  in  their  in- 
dulgences by  the  "Eat,  drink,  and  be 
merry,  for  tomorrow  we  die"  philos- 
ophy frequently  expressed  by  men  in 
the  armed  services. 

In  one  of  the  army  camps  we  visited 
on  the  west  coast,  we  had  met  with  a 
group  of  our  boys  to  consider  what 
the  Church  might  do  to  provide  ma- 
terials for  use  in  religious  services  and 
to  aid  them  in  making  proper  social 
contacts  with  organized  branches  of 
the  Church  adjacent  to  the  camp.  After 
a  prolonged  discussion  of  these  mat- 
ters, a  young  captain  in  the  group  made 
this  remark,  "To  my  mind  it's  a  ques- 
tion of  spirituality — if  a  man  lacks  that, 
then  there  is  little  gained  by  anything 
you  try  to  do  for  him;  if  he  has  spirit- 
uality, then  he  will  be  all  right  whether 
you  do  little  or  much." 

What  is  meant  by  spirituality?  The 
dictionary  defines  it  as  "the  faculty  that 
gives  a  feeling  of  confidence;  sense  of 
the  spiritual;  belief  in  divine  things;  an 
inclination  to  interpret  prospects  of 
promise  in  one's  own  favor." 

I  found  out  two  weeks  later  what 
spirituality  meant  to  that  young  army 
captain  when  I  met  him  on  the  street 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  learned  that 
during  a  short  furlough  prior  to  his 
leaving  for  overseas  duty  he  had 
brought  his  wife  and  family  with  him 
to  the  temple  where,  by  the  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  they  were 
sealed  together  in  the  everlasting  cove- 
nant for  time  and  for  all  eternity.  He 
was  living  with  "an  eye  single  to  the 
glory  of  God"  to  lead  him  through  this 
trying  war  period. 

"Decently  I  had  a  visit  with  a  young 
A^  man  returning  from  a  mission. 
When  I  asked  him  what  he  thought 
had  been  the  most  important  thing  he 
had  gained  from  his  mission  experience, 
he  replied,  "I  expect  shortly  to  be 
drafted  for  army  service.  I  have  gained 
a  testimony  that  if  I  live  a  clean  life  1 
will  be  entitled  to  the  companionship 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  will  warn  me 
of  needless  danger  and  keep  me  safe 
until  my  work  here  on  earth  is  com- 
pleted. Also  I  have  gained  a  testimony 
that  life  on  this  earth  is  but  a  prepara- 
tion for  eternity  and  that  if  I  live 
worthily,  after  this  life  I  will  have  im- 
portant work  there;  so  I  have  over- 
come the  fear  of  death  and  am  better 
prepared  to  go  into  the  army  than  I 
would  have  been  without  my  mission- 
ary experience." 

In  my  heart  I  said,  "Thank  God  for 
the  seeds  of  the  teachings  of  the  gospel 
planted  in  the  hearts  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  that  build  a  faith  to  fortify  them 
in  times  of  danger,  adversity,  ana  temp- 
tation." 

Sometime  in  his  youth,  and  through 
the  experiences  of  his  mission,  there 
had  been  burned  into  the  heart  of  that 
young  man  the  truth  that  if  he  was 
purified  and  cleansed  from  sin  he  could 
ask  whatsoever  he  would  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  and  it  would  be  done  (D.  &  C. 
50 :  29-30 )  and  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
would  not  always  strive  with  man;  and 
that  when  the  Spirit  ceased  to  strive 
with  man,  there  came  speedy  destruc- 
tion. (II  Nephi  26:1 1 )  He  had  learned 
that  if  he  were  wise  and  had  received 
the  truth  and  had  taken  the  Holy  Spirit 
for  his  guide  that  he  should  not  be 
hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  but 
should  abide  the  day.  (D.  &  C.  45:57) 
The  scriptures  had  taught  him  that  his 


Second  Day 

body  was  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
which  was  in  him,  which  he  had  of 
God  (I  Cor.  6:19)  and  that  whatsoever 
temple  is  defiled,  God  shall  destroy  that 
temple.    (D.  &  C.  93:35) 

One  who  has  a  testimony  of  the 
purpose  of  life  sees  the  obstacles  and 
trials  of  life  as  opportunities  for  gain- 
ing the  experience  necessary  for  the 
work  of  eternity;  he  sees  death  as  one 
of  the  greatest  experiences  of  life.  One 
of  the  saddest  things  I  see  as  I  travel 
throughout  the  stakes  and  wards  of  the 
Church  is  occasionally  a  person  who 
because  of  a  little  wordly  learning  or 
wealth  has  come  to  think  he  has  out- 
grown the  Church  and  the  faith  of  his 
fathers. 

To  one  who  has  high  spirituality, 
faith  in  the  gospel  and  in  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Church  supersedes  scienti- 
fic theories  and  the  philosophies  of  men; 
Priesthood  quorum  activities  supplant 
service  clubs  and  lodges;  and  Church 
social  and  recreational  responsibilities 
come  before  fraternities  and  sororities. 

Security  that  comes  from  the  broth- 
erhood of  a  Priesthood  quorum  with  a 
Church  membership  and  the  living  of 
the  Church  standards  is  valued  above 
a  fancied  security  that  is  purchased  with 
wealth  or  political  prestige. 

The  spiritually-minded  seeks  the 
respect  of  the  high-minded  who  obey 
the  law,  who  revere  womanhood  and 
virtue  and  encourage  purity  of 
thought  and  action  rather  than  cater  to 
the  applause  of  the  tipsters  who  secret- 
ly despise  the  man  who  thinks  and  acts 
below  the  standards  he  professes. 

When  prospering  in  a  material  way, 
those  with  great  spirituality  show  ap- 
preciation to  God  to  whom  they  are 
indebted  for  all  that  they  have,  by  a 
thrifty,  frugal  husbanding  of  their  sub- 
stance and  by  extending  generosity  to 
the  unfortunate  according  to  the  laws 
of  the  Church,  rather  than  indulging  in 
a  reckless,  riotous  living  as  a  prodigal 
in  defiance  of  the  laws  of  both  God 
and  man.  In  adversity  he  does  not  de- 
spair; when  his  bank  fails  he  does  not 
commit  suicide;  he  lives  above  his 
world,  and  all  that  he  does  is  with  his 
eye  ever  fixed  upon  the  goal  of  eternity. 

If  face  to  face  with  death,  such  a  one 
will  not  fear  if  his  feet  have  been  "shod 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


73 


with  the  preparation  of  the  gospel  of 
peace,"  and  those  who  lose  their  loved 
ones  will  have  the  faith  of  Moroni,  the 
captain  of  the  army,  who  declared, 
"For  the  Lord  suffereth  the  righteous 
to  be  slain  that  his  justice  and  judgment 
may  come  upon  the  wicked;  therefore  ye 
need  not  suppose  that  the  righteous  are 
lost  because  they  are  slain;  but  behold, 
they  do  enter  into  the  rest  of  the  Lord 
their  God."  (Alma  60:13) 

Tt  is  my  conviction  that  the  present  dev- 
*■  astating  scourge  of  war  in  which 
hundreds  of  thousands  are  being  slain, 
many  of  whom  are  no  more  responsible 
for  the  causes  of  the  war  than  are  our 
own  boys,  is  making  necessary  an  in- 
crease of  missionary  activity  in  the 
spirit  world  and  that  many  of  our  boys 
who  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  are 
worthy  to  do  so  will  be  called  to  that 
missionary  service  after  they  have  de- 
parted this  life. 

The  Lord,  ever  mindful  of  the  wel- 
fare of  His  children,  has,  through  His 
prophets,  given  wise  counsel  as  to  the 
rock  upon  which  men  should  anchor 
their  lives. 

And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  remember 
that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our  Redeemer, 
who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  that  ye  must 
build  your  foundation;  that  when  the  devil 
shall  send  forth  his  mighty  winds,  yea,  his 
shafts  in  the  whirlwind,  yea,  when  all  his 
hail  and  his  mighty  storm  shall  beat  upon 
you,  it  shall  have  no  power  over  you  to 


drag  you  down  to  the  gulf  of  misery  and  end- 
less wo,  because  of  the  rock  upon  which  ye 
are  built,  which  is  a  sure  foundation,  a 
foundation  whereon  if  men  build  they  can- 
not fail.  (Helaman  5:12) 

And  again  in  another  place  we  are 
counseled : 

O,  remember,  my  son,  and  learn  wisdom 
in  thy  youth;  yea,  learn  in  thy  youth  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

*     *     * 

Counsel  with  the  Lord  in  all  thy  doings, 
and  he  will  direct  thee  for  good;  yea,  when 
thou  liest  down  at  night  lie  down  unto  the 
Lord,  that  he  may  watch  over  you  in  your 
sleep;  and  when  thou  risest  in  the  morning 
let  thy  heart  be  full  of  thanks  unto  God; 
and  if  ye  do  these  things,  ye  shall  be  lifted 
up  at  the  last  day.  (Alma  37:35,  37) 

The  time  is  here  when  we  would  do 
well  to  sing  again  the  song  that  com- 
forted the  pioneers  of  a  former  day: 

Think  not,  when  you  gather  to  Zion 

Your  troubles  and  trials  are  through 
That  nothing  but  comfort  and  pleasure 

Are  waiting  in  Zion  for  you. 
No,  no;  'tis  designed  as  a  furnace, 

All  substance,  all  texture  to  try, 
To  burn  all  the  wood,  hay,  and  stubble, 

The  gold  from  the  dross  purify. 

May  we  survive  the  fiery  furnace  of 
God's  judgment  and  prove  true  to  what- 
ever test  shall  be  made  of  us  and 
abide  the  day  of  the  second  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man.  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


n 


ear  Brethren  and  Fellow  Work- 


J— "^  During  the  time  allotted  me  I 
should  like  to  call  to  mind  some  funda- 
mentals of  leadership. 

Nearly  every  member  of  the  Church, 
at  one  time  or  another,  is  called  to  some 
official  Church  position;  but  here  are 
assembled  the  present  Priesthood  lead- 
ership of  the  Church.  In  our  hands, 
with  the  willing  cooperation  of  the 
membership  the  Latter-day  Saints,  lies, 
in  large  measure,  the  future  of  the 
Church.    We  may  retard  or  accelerate 


its  progress.    The  Lord  has  given  us  a 
great  trust: 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these 
latter  days  has  had  great  leaders. 
From  Joseph  Smith  to  Heber  J.  Grant 
they  have  been  mighty  men.  In  their 
day  they  may  have  suffered  persecu- 
tion and  derision;  but  with  the  process 
of  the  years  they  have  come  to  stand 
as  gigantic  figures,  worthy  of  the  ac- 
claim of  all  who  love  righteousness. 
They  are  fruits  of  the  spirit  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  To  follow  the  ex- 
amples of  these  great  leaders  is  to  make 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

our  own  leadership  more  worthy  and 
powerful. 

Joseph  Smith,  under  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  head  of  this  dispensation  of  the 
gospel.  To  him  we  bore  tender  and 
touching  tribute  yesterday.  He  was 
indeed  a  leader  worthy  of  our  emula- 
tion. His  leadership  began  with  a  con- 
suming love  of  truth.  Indeed  no  man 
can  be  a  safe  leader  who  does  not  love 
truth  above  all  else.  The  words  truth 
and  light  appear  and  reappear  as  the 
foundations  of  his  teachings.  He  would 
not  walk  in  darkness.  He  knew  that 
the  light  of  truth  would  banish  the  night 
of  error.  Truth  was  his  measuring 
rod,  therefore  he  would  not  and  could 
not  support  any  cause,  political,  social, 
or  commercial,  which  did  not  square 
with  truth.  There  is  never  a  possible 
compromise  with  untruth.  Truth  must 
ever  be  obeyed,  or  leadership  leads 
downward.  What  a  different  world  we 
should  have  today  if  the  leaders  of 
nations  had  made  truth  their  first  love 
and  had  surrendered  to  it.  The  Prophet 
declared  his  passion  for  truth,  and  the 
power  of  truth,  in  a  glorious  answer  to 
a  correspondent: 

I  combat  the  errors  of  ages;  I  meet  the 
violence  of  mobs;  I  cope  with  illegal  pro- 
ceedings from  executive  authority;  I  cut 
the  Gordian  knot  of  powers;  and  I  solve  the 
mathematical  problems  of  the  universities 
with  truth — diamond  truth.  (D.  H.  C.  6:78) 

Love  of  truth  by  all  members  of  the 
Church,  from  1830  to  1942,  has  made 
the  Church  mighty;  and  love  of  truth 
and  obedience  to  it  will  enable  us  to  es- 
tablish on  earth  the  kingdom  of  God. 
By  truth  we  shall  achieve  the  world's 
leadership. 

'"Phe  history  of  Joseph  Smith  reveals 
A  further  a  man  who  did  not  pretend 
to  know  everything.  He  was  not 
opinionated.  He  was  not  sufficient  unto 
himself.  He  knew  the  limitations  of 
man  who  is  born  to  die.  That  is  an- 
other mark  of  his  leadership.  In  his 
eager  boyhood,  when  he  longed  for  the 
truth  of  religion  he  went  to  the  Lord 
for  help.  As  he  grew  in  age  and  power, 
he  continued  to  seek  help  from  the  Cre- 
ator of  earth  and  man.  He  was  pray- 
erful.     In   the   record   of   his   life   we 


Second  Day 

read  again  and  again,  "I  enquired  of 
the  Lord."  There  was  in  his  life  a  con- 
stant outreaching  for  divine  help.  He 
knew  the  source  of  truth,  and  sought 
refreshment  at  the  fountain  head.  Per- 
sonal opinions  and  even  the  apparently 
needed  help  of  living  men  were  set 
aside  when  the  Lord  spoke.  James 
Arlington  Bennett,  recently  baptized 
into  the  Church,  but  without  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel,  desired  to  help  the 
Prophet  out  of  the  difficulties  of  the 
day.  He  offered  to  be  the  Prophet's 
"right  hand  man."  Like  a  flash  from 
the  sky  came  the  Prophet's  thunder- 
ous reply:  "God  is  my  right  hand  man." 
We  can  not  attain  leadership  unless 
we  seek  help  from  the  Lord,  unless  we 
cultivate  the  spirit  of  prayer.  Again, 
let  me  ask,  would  the  world  be  in  its 
present  state  of  bloody  confusion,  if  its 
leaders  had  sought  counsel  from  the 
Lord? 

The  truth  that  Joseph  Smith  promul- 
gated, the  instructions  he  received 
from  heaven,  were  applied  in  the  spirit 
of  love  for  humanity.  That  was  a 
further  mark  of  his  leadership.  He 
recognized  that  all  are  children  of  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  to  that  extent  di- 
vine. He  was  ready  to  afford  all  men 
equal  rights  on  the  way  to  salvation. 
He  did  not  lift  himself  above  his 
brethren.  He  had  seen  the  Lord  and 
had  conversed  with  Him;  he  was  a 
prophet;  he  was  the  president  of  the 
Church — nevertheless  he  was  but  as 
one  with  his  brethren — a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  striving  and  struggling  for 
salvation.  In  him  destroying  pride  was 
swallowed  up  in  life-giving  humility. 
Arrogance  was  absent  from  his  private 
or  official  actions.  Such  forgetfulness 
of  self,  such  love  of  his  fellow  men 
made  him  a  powerful  leader.  If  we 
who  battle  for  the  cause  for  which  he 
gave  his  life  desire  to  become  success- 
ful leaders,  we  must  love  our  brethren 
and  sisters,  be  courteous  and  gentle 
with  them,  must  be  one  with  them.  The 
Prophet  records  in  his  diary  that  he 
told  some  new  arrivals  in  Nauvoo: 

I  was  but  a  man,  and  they  must  not  ex- 
pect me  to  be  perfect;  if  they  expected  per- 
fection from  me,  I  should  expect  it  from 
them;  but  if  they  would  bear  with  my  in- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


75 


firmities  and  the  infirmities  of  the  brethren, 
I  would  likewise  bear  with  their  infirmities. 
(D.  H.  C.  5:181) 

Such  an  attitude  creates  leadership. 
The  resulting  love  quiets  "the  restless 
pulse  of  care"  in  our  human  relation- 
ships. 

Joseph  the  Prophet  met  the  final  test 
of  the  leader,  that  of  fidelity.  He  was 
true  to  the  cause  which  he  represented. 
He  gave  of  himself  for  it.  Almost 
every  day  of  the  fourteen  years  he 
presided  over  the  Church  was  one  of 
toil,  often  of  pain  and  sorrow.  But, 
he  continued  to  be  diligent,  dependable, 
ever  considerate  of  the  welfare  of  the 
people.  In  the  needs  of  the  Church  he 
forgot  himself.  Opposition  to  the 
Church  was  usually  visited  upon  his 
head.  Fifty  times  he  was  charged  with 
offenses,  falsely  as  the  record  shows, 
for  he  was  never  found  guilty.  He 
spent  months  in  a  foul  jail.  He  was 
driven  from  place  to  place  and  robbed 
of  his  material  possessions.  His  name 
became  known  for  "good  and  evil"  the 
world  over.  But  he  did  not  falter.  He 
built  cities  and  temples;  he  fought  the 
battles  of  the  Church;  he  surrendered 
his  own  comforts  for  the  benefit  of  the 
people;  he  taught  them  everlasting 
truth.  When  at  long  last  the  enemy 
threatened  to  take  vengeance  upon  his 
people,  if  he  would  not  yield  himself 
to  men  of  the  law  who  were  untrue  to 
the  law,  and  because  some  of  his  own 
people  were  seized  by  fear,  he  said, 
"If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends 
it  is  of  none  to  myself."  And  when 
he  accepted  arrest  he  said  to  the  com- 
pany who  were  with  him: 

I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter, 
but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's  morning.  I 
have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  toward 
God  and  toward  all  men. 

The  words  of  a  worthy  leader! 

He  suffered  a  martyr's  death.  He 
was  true  even  unto  death. 

The  Lord  does  not  require  that  we 
give  our  lives  in  this  manner  for  the 
cause  of  truth.  Yet,  every  man  to  be 
true  to  his  calling  in  this  Church  must 
possess  the  spirit  of  devotion  and  sac- 
rifice,  of  diligence   and  dependability, 


of  love  of  man  and  God,  which  en- 
abled the  Prophet  to  seal  his  testimony 
with  his  blood.  Humanity  in  its  pres- 
ent utter  travail  and  sorrow  is  calling 
for  leaders,  who,  rising  above  human 
diplomacy  and  self-interest,  are  true  to 
the  cause  of  truth,  at  any  cost. 

T  eaders  who  follow  the  example  of 
Joseph  Smith  receive  great  rewards. 
They  find  daily  joy  in  life.  The  visions 
of  heaven  are  theirs.  And  they  win 
disciples.  Others,  witnessing  their 
lives,  seek  to  follow  them.  Brigham 
Young  bore  incessant  testimony  to  the 
joy  of  being  a  disciple  of  Joseph  Smith; 
and  his  dying  words  were,  "Joseph, 
Joseph!"  John  Taylor,  with  Hyrum 
Smith  and  Willard  Richards,  dared 
death  in  Carthage  Jail  to  be  with  their 
leader  and  brother.  The  lives  of  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  and  Heber  J.  Grant,  judged 
by  the  marks  of  leadership,  conform  to 
the  Prophet's  life.  Love  of  truth,  of 
God,  and  of  their  fellow  men,  and  an 
unquestioned,  unselfish  devotion  to  the 
latter-day  work  of  the  Lord  have  char- 
acterized the  actions  of  these  men.  To 
follow  the  examples  of  these  men  is  to 
achieve  leadership. 

In  our  respective  callings,  in  stake  or 
ward  or  in  the  Priesthood  quorum,  the 
signs  of  leadership  which  have  marked 
the  great  leaders  of  the  whole  Church, 
will  mark  us  as  successful  leaders. 
Leadership  is  in  essence  the  same  wher- 
ever applied. 

That  which  makes  a  Church  official 
a  leader  may  be  used  by  any  and  every 
member  of  the  Church  in  winning  joy 
in  life.  It  is  equally  important  for  the 
whole  membership  of  the  Church,  if 
we  are  to  be  as  a  light  upon  a  hill  for 
the  guidance  of  the  nations,  to  love 
truth,  to  go  to  the  Lord  for  help,  to  re- 
cognize the  divine  kinship  of  all  men, 
and  to  be  obedient  and  dependable, 
true  citizens  of  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

We  have  a  great  destiny.  We  are 
commissioned  to  bring  peace  and  hap- 
piness to  the  earth,  to  lead  the  world 
from  error  to  truth,  from  darkness  into 
light.  In  that  sense  we  have  been  called 
to  be  world  leaders.  For  that  calling 
let  us  prepare;  let  us  build  the  Church 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  4  Second  Day 

with  courage  and  faith  toward  perfec-      righteousness    shall   be    ushered   in,    I 
tion,  until  the  time  when  the  reign  of     pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

After  the  singing  by  the  choir  and  the  benediction  this  session  will  be 
adjourned  for  thirty  minutes  intermission.  We  shall  reassemble  at  12:30. 
During  this  intermission  members  of  the  choir  and  members  of  the  press 
will  have  an  opportunity  to  retire.  Those,  however,  who  hold  regular  cards 
of  admission,  may  of  course  remain  or  return  and  take  their  places  in  the 
audience  this  aternoon. 

Will  Presidents  of  the  High  Priests  Quorums,  immediately  after  the 
intermission  occupy  these  front  seats.  That  means  others  besides  those 
whose  names  were  read  yesterday.  Then  the  Presiding  Bishopric  may  draw 
from  your  ranks  any  others  besides  those  who  were  invited  to  take  places 
as  shall  be  assigned.  Members  of  the  Presidencies  of  the  High  Priests  may 
occupy  these  front  seats. 

Brethren:  Once  again  we  have  had  our  hearts  comforted,  our  souls 
inspired  by  the  sweet,  harmonious  music  furnished  by  the  great  Tabernacle 
Choir.  The  leadership  of  the  Church  here  assembled  expresses  gratitude 
with  one  heart  to  the  members  of  this  great  organization  for  the  noble 
service  you  render  the  Church  and  the  Nation.  To  the  soloists  today  and  to 
those  who  sang  yesterday  we  express  sincere  thanks. 

The  Choir  sang  "God  Is  Our  Refuge." 

Elder  Vernal  C.  Webb,  President  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  12:30  p.  m. 

SACRAMENT  AND  TESTIMONY  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  a  sacrament  and  testi- 
mony meeting  and  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Sunday  at  12:30  p.  m. 

President  Grant  was  present  during  the  early  part  of  the  meeting' 
President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services  at  the  request  of  President  Grant. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Did  You  Think  To 
Pray,"  after  which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  T. 
Williams  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Great  The  Wisdom 
and  the  Love." 

The  sacrament  was  administered  under  the  direction  of  President 
Rudger  Clawson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  assisted  by  the  Presidents 
of  High  Priests  Quorums  and  Bishops  of  wards. 

The  time  was  then  devoted  to  testimony  bearing. 

During  the  meeting  President  David  O.  McKay  presented  to  the 
congregation  the  following  resolution: 


SACRAMENT  AND  TESTIMONY  MEETING  77 

"It  is  proposed  that  from  this  body  of  Priesthood  representing  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  there  be  sent  to  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  the  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the 
country,  a  memorial  soliciting  his  early  consideration  of  measures  to  pro- 
tect more  adequately  the  young  men  of  America,  who  have  been  inducted 
into  the  Service,  against  the  evils  of  intoxicating  liquor  and  unchastity." 

On  motion  duly  made  and  seconded,  the  resolution  was  unanimously 
adopted  by  those  present. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"O  My  Father,"  and  the  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Alex  Brown, 
President  of  the  Seattle  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the  Sunday  morning  meeting, 
as  also  the  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  and  the 
Church  o[  the  Air  broadcast  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and 
Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor  and  assistant  conductor,  respectively,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

Accompaniments  on  the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander  Schreiner 
and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Organ  accompaniments  and  solo  presentations  for 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  and  the  Church  of  the  Air  pro- 
gram were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otter- 
strom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Ind 


ex 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O.  51 

Authorities  present  1 

Authorities  sustained 4 

Auxiliary  Officers  sustained 6 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0 47 

Bishops  who  have  passed  away  ..  4 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E 41 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  ....64 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 44 

Changes  in  Church  Officers 3 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast 66 

Church  Welfare  Committee 6 

Clark,  President  }.  Reuben,  Jr 54 

Early  deviation,  55 — Consecratioin,  55 
— Land  portions,  56 — Surplus,  56 — 
Other  Institutions.  56 — Private  Own- 
ership Fundamental,  57 — The  Wel- 
fare Plan  and  the  United  Order,  57 — 
Storehouses  and  Projects,  57 — The 
Constitution,  58 — Influence  in  the 
Americas,  58 — The  law  of  Zion,  59 
— Allegiance,  59. 
Clawson,  President  Rudger  27 

Deaths    4 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L 19,  65 

First  Day,  afternoon  meeting  ....23 

First  Day,  evening  meeting  39 

First  Day,  morning  meeting  2 

General  Authorities  present  1 

General  Authorities  sustained  ....  4 
General  Stake,  Ward  and  Mis- 
sion Officers  Present  1 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 24 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K 30 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R. 45 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A 28 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B 71 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R 61 

McKay,  President  David  0 2, 

17,  23,  24,  39,  54,  59,  60,  61,  67,  76 
McKay,  President  David  0 67 


Men  have  forgotten  God,  67 — The 
Antithesis  of  Christ's  teaching,  68 — 
Men  groping  blindly,  aimlessly,  68 — 
The  need  of  a  guiding  light,  68 — The 
one  and  safe  guide,  69 —  Applicability 
of  Christ's  Teachings,  69 — Proclama- 
tion of  Christ's  teachings,  70. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E. 33 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F 37 

Message  of  the  First  Presidency  7 
Our  Testimonies,  7 —  Drink  and  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  8— Chastity,  10— 
Parenthood,  12 —  Unity,  13 — Men  in 
the  Armed  Service,  14 —  The  War,  15 
— To  the  Officers  and  Members  of  the 
Church,   16. 

Mission  Presidents  2 

New  Mission  Presidents  3 

New  Stakes  organized  3 

New  Wards  organized  3 

Officers  sustained  4 

Resolution  addressed  to  the  Pres- 
ident of , the  United  States 77 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 40 

Richards,   Bishop  LeGrand  30 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  20 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G 42 

Sacrament  and  Testimony  Meet- 
ing   76 

Second  Day,  morning  meeting  ....60 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  48 

Smith,  Patriarch  Joseph  F 17 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  ....18 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G.  53 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  19 

Special  Appointments  3 

Tabernacle     Choir    and     Organ 

Broadcast  64 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H 46 

Wards  Transferred 4 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A 73 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L 36 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E 50 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 32 


DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 

MD  EVENTS  IF  IIS  TIME 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of 
their  times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  Wells  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more — it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggled  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  of 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  I.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 

All  EVEITS  01  HIS  TIME 

$2.50 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS $2.25 

David  O.  McKay  ANCIENT  APOSTLES 1.00 

James  E.Talmage  JESUS  THE  CHRIST  2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 1.25 

B.  H.  Roberts  THE  GOSPEL 1.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE 2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith    ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY  2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  2.00 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION 1.25 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES 1.25 

John  A.  Widtsoe  DNf  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH .50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 
GOVERNMENT    1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
Young    2.50 

George  D.Pyper  STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINT 

HYMNS   1.50 

John  Henry  Evans  JOSEPH  SMITH.  AN  AMERICAN 

PROPHET 3.00 

Richard  L.  Evans  UNTO  THE  HILLS  1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS 1.50 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESEHET  BODE  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  tatter-day  Saint  literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

The  Book  Center  of  the  Intermountain  West 


