76  Annual 
Conference 

of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter- day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  April  sixth,  seventh, 
eighth,  nineteen  hundred  and  six, 
with  a  full  report  of  the  discourses 

'.  •  ■  

Published  by  the  Deseret  News 


CJThe  DESERET  NEWS 

BOOK  STORE  is  the  lead 

ing  book  concern  of  the  State. 

€JFull  line  of  Standard  and 
miscellaneous  Books,  Histories, 
Biographies,  Late  Popular  Fic 
tion,  etc.  etc. 

All  of  the  church  and  home 
publications. 

tJSend  for  free  catalogue  and 
price  liSt. 


<I  Number  S-I-X  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah  J)eseret  News  Building 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRS' 

The  Seventy-Sixth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.  on 
Friday,  April  6,  1906,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS. 

There  were  present  of  the  First 
Presidency,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R. 
Winder  and  Anthon  H.  Lund;  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  Fran- 
cis M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
George  A.  Smith  and  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose; Presiding  Patriarch  John  Smith; 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventies,  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
George  Reynolds,  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
William  B.  Preston  and  Orrin  P.  Mil- 
ler. There  were  also  a  large  number 
of  presidents  of  stakes,  their  counsel- 
ors, presidents  of  missions,  and  other 
prominent  men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  services  were  commenced  by  the 
choir  and  congregation  singing  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  thee 
Thanks  for  thy  blessings  free 

We  here  enjoy. 
In  this  far  western  land, 
A  true  and  chosen  band, 
Led  hither  by  thy  hand, 

Would  sing  for  joy. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  E.  Taylor. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  beginning, 
High  on  the  mountain  top 


DAY. 

A  banner  is  unfurled, 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 
It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

(Opening  address.) 

Prosperity  general  among  the  Saints.— 
Harmony  and  faithfulness  characterize 
the  Quorums  of  Priesthood,  and  auxil- 
iary organizations. — Duties  denned,  and 
efficiency  to  be  increased. — Mechanical 
and  Agricultural  training  in  Church 
schools.— Striking  example  of  the  advan- 
tages of  technical  education  in  farming. 
—1905  the  "banner  year"  for  tithing  con- 
tributions.—Books  open  for  inspection  of 
tithepayers.— Object  and  purpose  of  the 
Church  organization. — Wickedness  will 
not  be  tolerated. 

I  feel  very  grateful  for  the  privilege 
of  again  meeting  with  you  at  one  of 
our  general  conferences,  it  being  the 
seventy-sixth  anniversary  of  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  and  am 
pleased  to  see  the  number  in  attend- 
ance this  morning.  I  sincerely  hope 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  dwell 
hi  our  hearts  throughout  this  con- 
ference, that  at  the  conclusion  we  may 
feel  that  our  coming  together  has  not 
been  in  vain,  but  that  much  good  has 
been  accomplished  and  the  require- 
ments of  the  law  of  the  Church  ful- 
filled. We  are  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for  this  beautiful  morning,  and  I  trust 
that  we  may  be  blessed  with  good 
weather,  as  well  as  with  a  rich  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit  of  God,  through- 
out the  conference. 

It  is  six  months  since  we  last  as- 
sembled in  general  conference,  and 
many  interesting  things  have  trans- 
pired  since   then.     Prosperity  seems 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  have  crowned  the  efforts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  land; 
and  I  do  not  say  this  boastingly  at 
all,  but  in  the  very  depths  of  humility 
and  gratitude.  I  believe  that  the 
spirit  of  devotion  to  the  cause  of  Zion 
has  prevailed  in  the  Church  during  the 
last  six  months  as  much  as  if  not  more 
than  ever  before  in  its  history.  I  be- 
lieve that,  speaking  in  a  general  way, 
we  have  been  as  united  as  ever  before; 
and  were  it  not  that  some  might  think 
we  were  boasting,  I  would  venture  to 
say  that  in  my  judgment-  the  Priest- 
hood and  the  people  as  a  whole  have 
never  been  more  united  than  we  are 
today. 

I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that,  so  far  as  my  knowledge 
extends,  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
are  united,  and  the  spirit  of  love  and 
confidence  possesses  our  souls.  The 
Lord  has  blessed  us  abundantly  with 
health  and  with  a  reasonable  outpour- 
ing of  His  Spirit.  We  have  endeavored 
to  meet  the  obligations  that  have  de- 
volved upon  us,  to  the  best  of  our  abil- 
ity and  to  the  utmost  of  the  strength 
and  wisdom  the  Lord  has  given  us. 
"We  have  not  shrunk  from  any  duty. 
We  have  sought  to  meet  every  re- 
quirement made  of  us  as  best  we  could, 
and  we  have  reasonable  assurance  that 
so  far  the  Lord  has  been  pleased 
with  our  efforts  and  has  accepted  our 
labors.  We  desire  to  continue  in  the 
labor  required  at  our  hands,  so  long 
as  the  Lord  shall  desire  it;  and  I  be- 
lieve my  counselors  feel  just  as  I 
do  when  I  say  that  whenever  the 
Father  is  satisfied  with  our  services, 
we  shall  bow  humbly  and  gratefully 
to  His  will. 

With  reference  to  the  brethren  of 
the  Twelve,  with  whom  we  meet  from 
week  to  week,  and  often  from  day 
to  day,  in  council,  I  have  to  say  that 
those  of  them  who  have  been  with 
us  are  united  together  and  in  full  har- 
mony with  us.  I  believe  that  the 
brethren  of  the  Twelve  who  have  been 
at  their  posts,  performing  their  duty, 
stand  solid  for  the  advancement  of  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  are  united  in 
their   views  and   labors  for  the  up- 


building of  Zion.  There  are  circum- 
stances connected  with  these  matters 
which  are  not  altogether  pleasant,  and 
which  are  fraught,  in  some  respects, 
with  very  serious  consequences.  But 
I  have  no  hesitancy  in  recommending 
to  you,  brethren  of  the  Priesthood  and 
members  of  the  Church,  those  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles  who 
have  kept  within  the  spirit  of  their 
calling,  who  have  sought  to  magnify 
the  same,  and  who  have  been  instant 
in  season  and  out  of  season  in  the  per- 
formance of  the  duties  that  have  de- 
volved upon  them.  They  are  worthy 
of  the  confidence  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  are  valiant  in  their  testimony 
for  the  truth,  are  earnest  and  vigilant 
in  their  watchcare  over  the  interests 
of  Zion  submitted  to  them,  and  have 
labored  diligently  in  the  mission  field, 
at  home  and  abroad,  as  much  as  op- 
portunity has  afforded. 

With  reference  to  the  brethren  of 
the  Presiding  Council  of  Seventy,  I 
desire  to  express  my  commendation 
of  them.  They  have  always  been  on 
hand,  ready  to  respond  to  every  call 
made  upon  them,  so  far  as  their  health 
and  other  important  duties  would 
permit.  It  is  understood  generally 
that  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts,  one  of  the 
presidents,  is  engaged  on  the  History 
of  the  Church,  and  is  connected  in  this 
labor  with  the  Historian's  office.  A 
large  proportion  of  his  time  is  required 
in  this  duty.  Nevertheless  he  has  re- 
sponded to  the  calls  that  have  been 
made  upon  him,  dropping  his  work  and 
going  out  to  visit  the  conferences  when- 
ever required.  The  same  may  be  said 
with  reference  to  the  other  members  of 
the  Council.  Brother  George  Reynolds 
another  member,  is  a  man  much  en- 
cumbered with  duties  in  connection 
with  the  missionary  work,  the  calling 
of  Elders  for  missions,  the  keeping  of 
their  records,  and  also!  the  labor  of  the 
Sunday  school,  and  other  matters  as- 
sociated with  the  President's  office.  He 
is  a  man  who;  labors  from  morning  till 
night,  early  and  late,  and  is  most  faith- 
ful and  diligent  in  the  performance  of 
his  duty.  Moreover,  he  is  most  cap- 
able, being  blessed  of  the  Lord  abund- 


GENERAL.  CONFEItKNCI.J 


antly  in  the  calling  to  which  he  is  as- 
signed. I  mention  these  two  brethren 
for  the  reason  that  they  are  occupied 
in  clerical  work  to  a  great  extent,  and 
are  therefore  not  at  liberty  so  much 
as  the  others  to  visit  the  conferences 
and  labor  in  the  ministry. 

I  am  sorry  to  say  that  all  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church  are  not 
in  the  enjoyment  of  perfect  health,  but 
they  are  united,  diligent  and  faithful 
in  the  discharge  of  their  duties,  and 
their  integrity  is  unquestioned.  With 
the  assistance  they  have  in  their  office, 
which  is  most  capable  and  efficient, 
the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  their 
office  are  well  and  faithfully  perform- 
ed. I  regret  to  say  that  Bishop  Bur- 
ton's health  is  very  poor  at  present,  but 
I  understand  he  is  improving,  and  I 
trust  he  will  soon  be  himself  again. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  in  re- 
gard to  the  various  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  in  the  Church — the  High 
Priests,  the  Seventies,  the  Elders,  and 
the  lesser  Priesthood.  The  aim  of  those 
in  charge  of  these  quorums  has  been 
to  awaken  within  the  hearts  of  those 
who  compose  them  a  livelier  interest 
in  their  work;  and  I  believe  it  may  be 
said  in  all  candor  and  consistency  that 
there  never  has  been  a  time  when  the 
various  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  were 
more  interested  in  their  work,  more 
alive  to  their  duties,  looking  more  di- 
rectly to  their  legitimate  calling,  and 
paying  more  attention  to  the  respon- 
sibilities that  devolve  upon  them,  than 
they  are  today.  The  Presidents  of  the 
Stakes  are  taking  up  the  work  of  the 
quorums,  especially  of  the  lesser 
Priesthood,  and  they  are  endeavoring 
to  arouse  the  members  of  the  Priesthood 
to  a  realization  of  the  great  responsi- 
bilities that  devolve  upon  them  by  rea- 
son of  the  Priesthood  they  hold  and 
their  connection  with  the  quorums 
thereof.  We  expect  to  see  the  day,  if 
we  live  long  enough  (and  if  some  of  us 
do  not  live  long  enough  to  see  it,  there 
are  others  who  will),  when  every  coun- 
cil of  the  Priesthood  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will 
understand  its  duty,  will  assume  its 
•own   responsibility,    will   magnify  its 


calling,  and  fill  its  place  in  the  Church, 
to  the  uttermost,  according  to  the  in- 
telligence and  ability  possessed  by  it. 
When  that  day  shall  come,  there  will 
not  be  so  much  necessity  for  work  that 
is  now  being  done  by  the  auxiliary 
organizations,  because  it  will  be  done 
by  the  regular  quorums  of  the  Priest- 
hood. The  Lord  designed  and  compre- 
hended it  from  the  beginning,  and  He 
has  „  made  provision  in  the  Church 
whereby  every  need  may  be  met  and 
satisfied  through  the  regular  organiza- 
tions of  the  Priesthood.  It  has  truly 
been  said  that  the  Church  is  perfectly 
organized.  The  only  trouble  is  that 
these  organizations  are  not  fully  alive 
to  the  obligations  that  rest  upon  them. 
When  they  become  thoroughly  awaken- 
ed to  the  requirements  made  of  them, 
they  will  fulfill  their  duties  more  faith- 
fully, and  the  work  of  the  Lord  will  be 
all  the  stronger  and  more  powerful  and 
influential  in  the  world. 

A  word  or  two  in  relation  to  the  Re- 
lief society.  This  is  an  organization 
that  was  established  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  It  is,  therefore,  the  old- 
est auxiliary  organization  of  the  Church 
and  it  is  of  the  first  importance.  It  has 
not  only  to  deal  with  the  necessities 
of  the  poor,  the  sick  and  the  needy, 
but  a  part  of  its  duty — and  the  larger 
part,  too — is  to  look  after  the  spiritual 
welfare  and  salvation  of  the  mothers 
and  daughters  of  Zion;  to  see  that 
none  is  neglected,  but  that  all  are 
guarded  against  misfortune,  calamity, 
the  powers  of  darkness,  and  the  evils 
that  threaten  them  in  the  world.  It  is 
the  dutv  of  the  Relief  Societies  to  look 
after  the  spiritual  welfare  of  them- 
selves and  of  all  the  female  memoers 
of  the  Church.  It  is  their  duty  to  col- 
lect means  from  those  who  have  in 
abundance,  and  distribute  it  wisely 
unto  those  in  need.  It  is  a  part  of 
their  duty  to  see  that  there  are  those 
capable  of  being  nurses  as  well  as 
teachers  and  exemplars  in  Zion,  and 
that  they  have  an  opportunity  to  be- 
come thoroughly  prepared  for  this 
great  labor  and  responsibility.  I  have 
heard  of  a  disposition  on  the  part  of 
some  of  our  sisters  to  become  a  law 


4 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


unto  themselves  in  relation  to  these 
things.  I  would  like  to  say  that  it  is 
expected  of  the  Relief  Society,  espec- 
ially the  general  authorities  of  that 
great  organization,  that  they  will  have 
a  watchcare  over  all  the  organizations 
among  the  women  of  Zion.  They  stand 
at  the  head  of  all  such;  they  ought  to 
stand  at  the  head,  and  they  should 
magnify  their  calling,  and  see  to  it 
that  error  is  not  permitted  to  creep  in, 
that  cabals  are  not  formed,  that  secret 
combinations  may  not  get  a  foothold, 
to  mislead  the  sisters.  They  should 
see  to  it  that  the  other  organizations 
of  women  in  the  Church  correspond 
and  are  in  harmony  with  their  organ- 
ization. Why  should  this  be?  In  order 
that  the  women  of  Zion  may  be  united, 
that  their  interests  may  be  in  common, 
and  not  conflicting  or  segregated,  and 
that  the  purpose  of  this  organization 
may  be  realized  and  the  organization 
itself  be  effective  for  good  in  every 
part  of  the  Church  throughout  the 
world,  wherever  the  Gospel  is  preached. 
We  realize  that  it  is  impossible  for 
men  or  women  possessing  physical 
weaknesses  on  account  of  age  or  in- 
firmities, to  meet  every  requirement; 
but  we  expect  that  every  man  and 
woman  entrusted  with  responsibility 
in  the  Church  will  do  their  duty  to  the 
utmost  of  their  ability.  That  we  look 
for;  that  we  pray  for;  for  that  we  la- 
bor to  the  best  of  the  ability  and 
strength  we  possess. 

When  I  arose  this  morning  I  did  not 
design  to  occupy  much  time,  but  I 
would  like  to  say  something  in  rela- 
tion to  other  organizations;  and  if 
I  do  not  touch  upon  all  of  them,  no 
one  need  feel  slighted,  for  I  feel  that 
the  eyes  of  the  Lord  and  of  His  ser- 
vants are  over  all  these  organizations. 
We  are  cognizant  of  their  existence; 
we  know  somewhat  of  their  labors  and 
of  the  responsibilities  that  rest  upon 
them;  we  are  not  blind  to  their  efforts, 
nor  to  the  good  thev  are  accomplish- 
ing. I  want  to  say  a  few  words  con- 
cerning our  Sunday  school  organiza- 
tion. I  do  not  think  any  one  will  claim 
that  at  any  previous  time  in  the 
Church  the  Sunday  school  organization 


was  any  more  perfect  or  efficient  than 
it  is  today.  Do  you  think  so.  Brother 
Reynolds?  (addressing  him).  [Broth- 
er Reynolds:  "No,  sir;  I  do  not."]  I 
believe  that  those  who  are  connected 
with  this  work  and  familiar  with  what 
is  beine:  accomplished  by  it  will  be 
unanimous  in  the  claim  I  make  that 
never  before,  since  the  Sunday  schools 
were  organized  in  the  days  of  our  early 
settlement  here,  has  this  organization 
been  so  perfect  and  efficient  as  it  is  to- 
day. The  brethren  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  Board  meet  every  week, 
and  they  are  interested  in  their  work, 
Some  of  the  members  live  at  a  dis- 
tance and  cannot  attend,  but  most  of 
those  who  are  within  reach  attend 
their  council  meetings  every  week, 
where  matters  connected  with  the 
Sunday  schools  are  thoroughly  con- 
sidered and  weighed,  and  conclusions 
are  reached,  after  much  careful  delib- 
eration and  thought,  in  relation  to  the 
work  that  is  sought  to  be  accomplished 
in  the  Sunday  schools.  I  feel  thankful 
to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  we  have 
so  many  efficient,  capable  workers  in 
our  Sunday  schools,  who  are  diligent 
in  the  performance  of  their  duty,  who 
wield  such  a  wholesome  influence  over 
the  minds  of  the  pupils,  and  whose  ex- 
amples are  such  as  to  make 
them  worthy  of  all  commendation.  I 
desire  to  commend  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  the 
laborers  in  the  Sunday  schools,  and  I 
trust  that  the  parents  will  sustain  them 
in  their  callings,  strengthen  their 
hands,  by  encouraging  their  children 
to  attend  the  schools  on  the  Sabbath 
day  and  to  show  deference  and  respect 
for  their  teachers. 

Our  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  are  in  as  good  care 
and  keeping  as  could  be  expected.  This 
is  an  organization  which  only  continues 
a  portion  of  the  year.  During  the  busy 
season,  when  young  men  are  required 
on  the  farms,  these  associations  sus- 
pend for  a  time;  but  the  work  is  car- 
ried on  all  through  the  winter  season, 
from  October  to  April,  when  the  youth 
of  Zion  are  able  to  attend  to  their  du- 
ties in  these  organizations.    I  desire  to 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


F> 


say  that  our  best  missionaries  are 
called  from  these  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations.  The  young  men  that  make 
the  most  efficient  missionaries  are  those 
who  have  been  faithful  in  these  organi- 
zations. It  is  true  we  have  missionary 
classes  in  our  Church  schools,  where 
the  young-  men  who  have  not  paid  much 
attention  to  religious  matters  and  are 
not  well  read  in  the  scriptures,  may  gc 
for  a  short  season  and  receive  instruc- 
tion. But  this  work  is  only  temporary 
compared  with  the  work  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association.  It  is  alto- 
gether too  brief,  and  those  who  attend 
t;;ese  classes  are  generally  pushed  for 
time,  in  a  hurry  to  get  home  and  go 
to  work  again,  and  can  scarcely  stay 
long  enough  to  finish  the  course.  There- 
fore, I  repeat  that  our  best  and  most 
effective  workers  in  the  mission  field 
are  those  that  have  given  most  atten- 
tion to  the  Mutual  Improvement  work 
at  home.    So  that  it  is  doing  good. 

Ihe  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  are  also  prosperous 
and  doing  a  glorious  work.  Yet  for 
buth  of  these  organizations  the  field  is 
broad,  and  the  laborers  are  indeed  few. 
But  they  are  doing  the  best  they  can 
under  the  circumstances,  I  believe,  and 
I  have  only  words  of  commendation 
for  them. 

Our  Primary  Associations  are  also  ef^. 
fkient  and  doing  much  good  among  the 
little  children,  and  I  commend  their  la- 
bor and  organization,  and  exhort  them 
to  diligence  in  the  performance  of  their 
duty  and  economy  in  the  use  of  the 
means  that  comes  into  their  hands,  as 
I  do  the  Relief  Society.  I  say  to  all 
these  organizations  that  it  is  expected 
of  them  that  in  all  their  dealings  they 
will  operate  on  business  principles, 
strictly  upon  honor,  so  that  it  may 
never  be  necessary  to  cover  a  single 
track  they  make,  but  that  every  step 
they  take  may  be  above  board  and  open 
to  the  scrutiny  of  all  who  may  be  in- 
terested. It  is  expected  that  they  will 
make  reports  from  time  to  time,  as  re- 
quired, both  of  their  financial  and  their 
ecclesiastical  work. 

We  have  a  number  of  Church  schools 


established  in  Zion.  I  have  not  taken 
the  pains  to  post  myself  as  to  the  ex- 
act number,  but  I  believe  there  art 
about  17.  The  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity in  Provo,  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
University  in  this  city,  and  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  College  in  Logan,  are  in- 
stitutions of  which  the  whole  Church 
has  reason  to  be  proud.  The  Trustee- 
in-Trust,  by  and  with  th<»  advice  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of 
Apostles,  has  given  as  liberally  as  pos- 
sible, consistent  with  other  obligation^, 
for  the  maintenance  of  our  Church 
schools.  We  have  sought  to  encourage 
in  our  Church  schools  the  establish- 
ment of  .departments  of  mechanic  arts 
ani1.  manual  training;  and.  so  far  as 
I  know,  everything  possible  is  being 
done,  at  least  in  the  principal  schools, 
for  the  training  of  our  youth,  not  only 
in  the  regular  mechanic  arts,  but  also 
in  the  art  of  agriculture.  An  agricul- 
tural course  has  recently  been  started 
in  the  Brigham  Young  University,  and 
one  of  our  most  proficient  scientists  has 
teen  called  to  take  charge  of  the  class. 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  some  of  our  old- 
est farmers  are  delighted  with  the 
information  they  have  obtained  by  at- 
tending this  class.  I  heard  a  brother 
who  had  been  farming  for  many  years, 
say  that  he  had  always  been  under  the 
impression  that  when  a  man  could  not 
do  anything  else,  all  he  had  to  do  was 
to  turn  his  attention  to  the  plow  and 
cultivate  the  soil,  for  anybody  could 
make  a  farmer,  but  he  had  found  out 
since  attending  his  class  that  it  re- 
quired intelligence  and  intelligent  ap- 
plication to  be  a  good  farmer,  as  well 
as  to  be  a  good  artisan.  In  connec- 
tion with  this  I  may  state  a  circum- 
stance that  came  under  my  own  ob- 
servation years  ago.  A  certain  brother 
had  lived  upon  his  farm  for  some  four- 
teen or  fifteen  years.  He  had  culti- 
vated it  every  year  the  best  he  could, 
but  it  had  become  so  impoverished  that 
he  could  not  make  a  living  off  it  any 
longer,  and  he  became  so  disgusted 
wi,th  the  country,  especially  with  his 
farm,  that  he  concluded,  if  he  could 
only  trade  the  farm  off  for  a  team  and 


6 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


wagon  that  would  take  him  out  of  the 
country,  he  would  be  glad  to  go.  By 
and  by  his  man  came  along,  and  he 
sold  his  farm  for  a  team  and  wagon, 
in  which  he  put  his  wife  and  children 
and  moved  to  some  other  country.  The 
purchaser  took  possession  of  this  worn- 
out  farm,  and  within  three  years,  by 
intelligent  operation,  he  was  able  to 
gather  from  that  farm  forty  bushels 
of  wheat  to  the  acre,  and  other  pro- 
ducts in  proportion.  The  nutriment 
of  the  soil  had  been  exhausted,  and  it 
needed  resuscitation;  so  he  went  to 
work,  gave  it  the  nourishment  it  re- 
quired, and  reaped  a  bountiful  harvest 
as  a  result  of  his  wisdom.  There  are 
too  many  of  our  farmers  who  think  it 
does  not  need  any  skill  to  be  a  farmer; 
but  this  good  brother  in  Provo  to  whom 
I  alluded  found  it  did.  So  we  are 
teaching  agriculture  in  our  schools,  as 
well  as  the  mechanic  arts.  The  Brig- 
ham  Young  College  is  putting  up  a 
building  now  wherein  are  to  be  taught 
all  sorts  of  industries;  where  our  youth 
will  be  able  to  learn  carpentry,  black- 
smithing,  domestic  arts,  and  other 
things  that  will  be  useful  to  them.  Yet 
we  find  it  a  drag  to  induce  anybody 
that  is  possessed  of  means  to  contribute 
very  largely  to  it.  Some  of  our 
wealthiest  men  felt  the^-  were  doing 
their  utmost  when  they  donated  per- 
haps a  hundred  dollars  towards  a 
building  that  will  cost  eight  or  ten 
thousand  dollars,  if  not  more.  I  men- 
tion this  for  the  reason  that  in  my 
opinion  the  Church  schools  are  laying 
the  foundation  for  great  usefulness 
among  the  people  of  God,  and  they 
should  be  sustained  by  the  people  and 
by  the  Church.  The  Church  is  sus- 
taining them,  and  as  we  acquire  more 
means  and  become  more  free  from  ob- 
ligations which  have  been  resting  upon 
the  Church  for  years,  we  will  be  more 
freehanded  to  administer  to  the  needs 
of  our  Church  schools,  as  well  as  other 
requirements  of  that  nature. 

The  Religion  Class  work  is  an  ad- 
junct to  the  Church  schools.  It  is 
under  the  direction  of  President  An- 
thon  H.  Lund  and  his  associates,  and  it 


is  a  necessary  and  most  interesting  ad- 
junct to  our  auxiliai^  organizations. 
It  was  established  to  assist  in  the  pro- 
per training  and  education  of  our  chil- 
dren, and  I  commend  it  to  the  presid- 
ing authorities  throughout  the  Church, 
and  bespeak  for  it  their  kind  attention, 
encouragement  and  assistance,  so  far 
as  it  lies  in  their  power.  Let  us  take 
care  of  these  things,  for  they  nurture 
and  strengthen  our  children  in  the  right 
direction,  and  there  is  nothing  more  im- 
portant. If  is  extreme  folly  for  any 
people  to  send  thousands  of  mission- 
aries out  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations,  and  neglect  their 
own  children  at  home.  I  think  our 
very  first  interest  should  be  to  look 
after  our  children,  and  see  that  they 
have  every  advantage  necessary  to 
bring  them  up  in  the  way  they  should 
go,  that  when  they  get  old  they  may 
not  depart  from  it. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  the  year  1905  has  been  the 
banner  year  for  the  tithings  of  the  peo- 
ple. You  can  put  that  down  in  your 
memorandum  books,  and  remember  it. 
Never  in  the  history  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have 
the  people  contributed  as  much  tithing 
as  they  did  in  1905.  And  yet  they  have 
not  done  anything  more  than  their 
duty;  in  fact,  there  are  a  great  many 
Latter-day  Saints  that  have  not  done 
their  duty,  as  the  books  will  show. 

In  this  connection  I  may  say  that 
a  most  thorough  and  searching  audita- 
tion  of  the  books  of  the  Trustee-in- 
Trust,  the  books  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  and  the  books  of  the  Deseret 
News  Company,  has  been  made  by  the 
auditors  that  were  appointed  and  sus- 
tained at  our  last  conference.  Before 
the  conclusion  of  this  conference  we 
will  read  you  their  report,  and  I  be- 
lieve you  will  be  perfectly  satisfied 
with  it.  The  man  that  complains  about 
not  knowing  what  is  done  with  the 
tithing,  in  ninety-nine  cases  out  of  a 
hundred  is  the  man  who  has  no  credit 
on  the  books  of  the  Church  for  pay- 
ing tithing.  We  do  not  care  to 
exhibit  the  books   of  the  Church  to 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


7 


such  carpers  and  to  that  class  of  peo- 
ple. But  there  is  not  a  tithepayer 
in  the  Church  that  cannot  go  to  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  Office,  or  to  the  of- 
fice of  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  if  he  de- 
sires, and  find  his  account,  and  see  to 
it  that  every  dollar  he  has  given  to 
the  Lord  for  tithing  is  credited  to  him. 
Then,  if  he  wants  to  be  more  search- 
ing as  a  tithepayer  and  find  out  what 
is  done  with  the  tithing,  we  will  set  be- 
fore him  the  whole  thing,  and  if  he  has 
any  good  counsel  to  give  us  we  will 
take  it  from  him.  But  we  will  not — 
because  we  do  not  have  to,  and  it  is  not 
the  business  of  the  world  to  require  it- 
open  our  books  to  the  world,  unless  we 
wish  to.  We  are  not  ashamed  of  them. 
We  are  not  afraid  for  them  to  be  in- 
spected. They  are  honest  and  straight; 
and  there  is  not  a  man  in  the  world 
that  will  look  at  them,  but  will  say  so, 
if  he  is  honest  himself. 

I  do  not  know  but  I  have  trespassed 
upon  your  time,  but  there  are  other 
things  that  pass  through  my  mind.  We 
are  contributing  means  for  the  pur- 
chase and  maintenance  of  mission 
houses  in  the  world;  and  today  we 
have  more  headquarters  belonging  to 
the  Church  in  Great  Britain,  in  Scan- 
dinavia, in  the  United  States  and  in 
the  islands  of  the  sea,  where  our  Elders 
may  rendezvous  and  find  a  resting  place 
in  time  of  sickness  or  distress,  and 
where  they  may  meet  for  counsel,  than 
evier  bjefore.  When  I  say  that  I  do 
,not  boast  at  all;  I  simply  give  it  to 
you  for  information  and  as  a  statement 
of  fact. 

So  we  may  say  that  notwithstanding 
the  opposition,  the  bitterness,  the  hat- 
red, the  falsehoods,  the  slanders  and 
the  misrepresentations  with  which  the 
public  press  has  been  filled  for  year3 
concerning  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
the  authorities  of  the  Church,  there 
never  was  a  time  when  the  Church 
prospered  more  than  it  is  doing  today; 
and  I  do  not  know  but  we  ought  to  be 
thankful  that  the  Lord  lets  our  enemies 
expose  themselves  as  they  do. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  I  see  before  me- 
the  leaders  of  the  Church,  the  presiding 


spirits,  in  the  capacity  of  Presidents  of 
Stakes,    Counselors    to    Presidents  of 
Stakes,  High  Councilors,  Bishops  and 
their  counselors,  and  those  who  are  en- 
gaged in  our  educational  institutions 
and  in  other  responsible  positions  in 
the  Church.    I  honor  you  all.    I  love 
you  for  your  integrity  to  the  cause  of 
Zion.     It  is  the  kingdom  of  God  or 
nothing,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned.  I 
cut  no  figure  personally  in  this  work, 
and  I  am  nothing  except  in  the  humble 
effort  to  do  my  duty  as  the  Lord  gives 
me  the  ability  to  do  it.    But  it  is  the 
kingdom  of  God.    What  I  mean  by  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  the  organization  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  of  which  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  king  and  the  head;  not  as  an  or- 
ganization in  any  wise  menacing  or 
jeopardizing  the  liberties  or  rights  of 
the  people  throughout  the  world,  but 
an  organization  calculated  to  lift  up 
and  ameliorate  the  condition  of  man- 
kind; to  make  bad  men  good,  if  it  js 
possible  for  them  to  repent  of  their 
sins,  and  to  make  good  men  better.  That 
is  the  object  and  purpose  of  the  Church, 
that  is  what  it  is  accomplishing  in  the 
world.    And  it  is  very  strict  in  regard 
to  these  matters.    Drunkards,  whore- 
mongers, liars,  thieves,  those  that  be- 
tray the  confidence  of  their  fellowmen, 
those  who  are  unworthy  of  credence, 
unworthy  of  love  and  confidence — all 
such,    when   their   character  becomes 
known,  are  disfellowshiped  from  the 
Church,  and  are  not  permitted  to  have 
a  standing  in  it,  if  we  know  it.    It  is 
true  that  there  are  none  of  us  but  have 
our    imperfections    and  shortcomings. 
Perfection  dwells  not  with  mortal  man. 
We  all  have  our  weaknesses.  But  when 
a  man  abandons  the  truth,  virtue,  his 
love  for  the  Gospel  and  .for  the  people  of 
God,  and  becomes  an  open,  avowed  en- 
emy, it  becomes  the  duty  of  the  Church, 
and  the  Church  would  be  recreant  to 
its  duty  if  it  did  not  sever  him  from 
communion,  cut  him  off,  and  let  him 
go  where  he  pleases.     We  would  do 
wrong  if  we  hung  on  to  and  tried  to 
nurture   such   evil   creatures   in  our 
midst,  no  matter  what  the  relationship 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


may  be  that  exists  between  us  and 
them.  Therefore,  I  say  again,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  stands  for  vir- 
tue, honor,  truth,  purity  of  life,  and 
good  will  to  all  mankind.  It  stands  for 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  for  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  the  Father  sent  into  the 
world,  and  whom  to  know  is  life  eter- 
nal. This  is  what  the  Church  stands 
for,  and  it  cannot  tolerate  abomina- 
tion crime  and  wickedness  on  the  part 
of  those  who  may  claim  to  have  some 
connection  with  it.  We  must  sever  our- 
selves from  them,  and  let  them  go.  Not 
that  we  want  to  hurt  them.  "We  dc 
not  want  to  hurt  anybody.  "We  never 
have,  and  we  do  not  intend  to,  hurt 
anybody.  But  »we  do  not  intend  to  be 
hurt  by  those  who  are  seeking  our  de- 
struction, if  we  can  help  it.  It  is  our 
right  to  protect  ourselves. 

Now,  God  bless  you.  May  peace  abide 
in  your  souls,  and  the  love  of  truth 
abound  in  you.  May  virtue  garnish 
all  your  ways.  May  you  live  uprightly 
and  honestly  before  the  Lord,  keep  the 
faith,  and  be  valiant  in  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ;  for  he  that  is  valiant 
will  receive  his  reward.  God  bless  you. 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let 
the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 


UNIVERSITY  TRUSTEES. 

President  Smith  explained  that  ac- 
cording to  the  deed  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  the  trustees  of  that 
institution  shall  be  presented  every 
three  years  to  be  sustained  at  the  gen- 
eral conference.  He  therefore  pre- 
sented the  following  names  for  the 
vote  of  the  Saints: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  David  John,  Wilson 
H.  Dusenberry,  Susa  Y.  Gates,  Reed 
Smoot,  John  Henry  Smith,  Lafayette 
Holbrook,  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  Jesse 
Knight,  Oscar  B.  Young,  Jonathan  S. 
Page,  Jr.,  Richard  W.  Young.  The 
vote  was  unanimous. 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Testimony  concerning  the  truth  of  Presi- 
dent Smith's  statements. — Gratifying  in- 
crease of  interest  in  Temple  work.— The 
Lord  will  bless  the  faithful. 

I  feel  very  thankful  this  morning  to 
■have  the  privilege  of  meeting  once 
more  with  you  in  general  conference.  I 
have  listened  with  much  pleasure  to 
the  statements  made  by  our  President 
in  relation  to  the  condition  of  the 
Church  of  Jesu3  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  have  no  doubt  that  you  also 
have  listened  with  the  same  degree  of 
interest.  I  rejoice  exceedingly  that  1 
can  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
what  he  has  said,  in  all  particulars. 
I  am  very  thankful  that  the  Lord  has 
been  so  kind  and  generous  to  me  as  to 
extend  my  years  until  the  present  time, 
and  I  pray  and  hope  that  the  remaindei 
of  my  days  may  be  spent  in  assisting  to 
build  up  His  Church  upon  the  earth. 

I  remember  that  in  the  last  sermon 
preached  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
he  laid  particular  stress  upon  the  duties 
and  obligations  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  relation  to  the  redemption  of  their 
dead.  I  rejoice  to  know  that  the  dispo- 
sition and  feeling  of  the  Latter-da> 
Saints  in  this  direction  is  improving, 
and  that  the  number  attending  to  this 
w  ork  in  the  temples  is  increasing  al! 
tne  time.  A  little  item  that  has  ap- 
peared in  the  statistics  we  have  re- 
ceived is  of  much  interest  to  me,  name- 
ly, that  during  the  past  year  there  has 
been  a  very  decided  increase  in  the 
number  of  marriages  in  the  temples. 
We  are  much  gratified  to  know  that  our 
ycung  people  are  looking  towards  the 
temples  of  God  as  the  proper  places  for 
the  performance  of  the  marriage  cere- 
mony. We  hope  they  will  continue  to 
do  so,  and  that  there  will  be  a  still 
greater  increase  in  this  direction  dur- 
ing the  present  year.  I  look  upon  the 
payment  of  tithing,  ahd  the  desire  of 
the  people  to  perform  temple  ordinances 
and  work  for  the  redemption  of  their 
dead,  as  good  indications  of  the  faith- 
ful condition  of  the  Saints. 

I  am  thankful,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, for  this  opportunity  to  bear  tes- 
timony to  what  has  been  said.    I  do 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


9 


not  feel  to  occupy  your  time,  but  I  de- 
sire to  express  my  thanks  and  gratitude 
to  God  for  every  blessing  He  has  be- 
stowed upon  His  people.  I  am  satisfied 
that  if  we  continue  to  prosecute  our  la- 
bor? as  faithfully  as  we  have  done  in 
the  past  the  Lord  will  continue  to  bless 
us,  and  will  multiply  us  upon  the  earth. 
May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  ana 
sisters.  Many  of  you  have  traveled 
long  distances  to  come  up  here  to  spend 
a  short  time  in  conference.  May  you  be 
abundantly  repaid  for  all  that  you  have 
done  in  this  direction. 

God  bless  you,  and  all  pertaining  un- 
to you,  and  may  your  substance,  and 
everything  that  is  needful  for  your 
■welfare,  be  multiplied  and  increased,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Ainen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

The  ethics  of  "Mormonism".— Pursuit  of 
worldly  affairs  quenches  love  of  Gospel. 
—Essentiality  of  religious,  intellectual, 
and  manual  education.— Advantages  of 
Church  school  instruction.— Gratifying 
progress  of  the  Church  at  home  and 
abroad. 

When  President  Smith  in  his  clos- 
ing remarks  told  us  what  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
stands  for,  I  thought  of  these  words, 
given  in  an  early  revelation: 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
gence, ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock 
and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

This  passage  contains  the  ethics  of 
Mormonism,  and  is  what  the  Church 
stands  for.  I  believe  that  we,  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  are  remembering  these 
virtues,  and  that  faith  is  increasing  in 
our  midst.  It  would  be  well  for  us 
all  to  examine  ourselves  and  see  if 
our  faith  is  increasing,  or  if  we  are 
getting  indifferent  and  our  faith  de- 
creasing. We  should  do  this  thorough- 
ly; let  our  criticism  of  self  be  severe 
so  that  we  may  see  ourselves  in  the 
true  light.  Many  who  received  the 
Gospel  abroad,  in  thinking  over  the 
Past,  are  led  to  say:  "How  sweet  was 
the  word  of  God  as  it  came  to  us 


through  the  servants  of  the  Lord." 
Eut  since  coming  here  they  have  be- 
come so  absorbed  in  business  and 
worldly  pursuits  that  they  seem  to 
have  forgotten  the  object  of  their 
gathering  with  the  Saints.  To  such 
I  will  say,  Stop,  and  try  to  regain  that 
first  love  of  the  Gospel  which,  even 
now,  gives  you  so  much  pleasure  in  re- 
calling. A  friend,  whom  I  remember 
from  my  childhood,  said  a  short  time 
ago:  "You  may  not  think  that  I  am 
very  staunch  in  the  faith  when  you 
see  how  little  I  do  in  a  Church  way, 
but  I  wish  to  say  that,  when  I  think 
of  those  early  days,  when  I  joined  the 
Church,  it  warms  my  heart,  and  I  feel 
thankful  that  I  have  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth."  Here  is  one  who  has  let 
the  present  absorb  all  his  energies,  and 
he  has  become  seemingly  indifferent 
to  the  requirments  of  the  Gospel.  This 
should  not  be  the  case  with  any  of  us. 
We  should  remember  and  do  the  duties 
required  of  us  as  Saints. 

We  should  remember  our  fellowmen, 
and  that  we  owe  the  duty  of  making 
them  acquainted  with  the  faith  God 
has  given  us.  There  are  many  living 
right  in  our  midst  who  do  not  know 
what  we  believe.  Many  of  us  are  will- 
ing to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  to 
proclaim  the  glad  tidings  of  a  restor- 
ed Gospel,  but  do  not  think  of  our 
neighbors  who  live  in  the  same  street 
with  us,  and  who  know  nothing  about 
our  religion  except  that  which  they 
read  in  newspapers  inimical  to  us.  We 
should  be  ready  to  bear  our  testimony 
to  them,  and  above  all  let  our  good 
works  so  shine  that  they  may  know  we 
are  endeavoring  to  be  the  children  of 
God. 

We  should  cultivate  the  virtues 
mentioned  in  the  passage  I  have  read. 
We  are  there  encouraged  to  seek 
knowledge.  The  President  has  given 
us  a  statement  of  the  different  or- 
ganizations in  the  Churteh,  and  has 
told  us  their  aim  and  purpose.  The 
object  of  the  quorums  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  the  auxiliary  organizations, 
is  that  their  members  n*ay  acquire 
knowledge,  and  self  improvement.  If 
we  are  called  an  ignorant  people,  we 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


want  to  make  it  manifest  to  the  world 
that  the  charge  is  not  true,  but  that 
we  are  obeying  the  commands  of  the 
Lord,  seeking  knowledge  ourselves  and 
are  imparting  this  also  to  our  chil- 
dren. I  feel  proud  of  what  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  doing  for  their  children 
in  regard  to  education;  they  are  alive 
to  the  necessity  of  having  them  tho- 
roughly instructed.  We  do  not  want 
the  mind  trained  alone,  but  also  the 
hands.  We  desire  that  the  education 
we  give  our  children  shall  be  most 
useful  to  them.  The  object  of  giv- 
ing them  a  good  education  should  not 
be  alone  for  the  purpose  that  they  may 
be  able  to  gain  a  living  without  man- 
ual labor.  It  is  true  that  we  need 
many  teachers;  we  need  many  men 
and  women  in  other  professions  also, 
and  they  must  devote  their  time  to  fit 
and  prepare  therrfselves  for  such 
positions;  but  all  our  children 
cannot  expect  to  enter  the  pro- 
fessions. There  are,  however, 
many  vocations  open  to  all,  and  a 
skilled  hand  will  always  find  work. 
Presidents  Smith  and  Winder  are 
much  in  favor  of  giving  our  children 
thorough  manual  training.  We  should 
teach  them  to  regard  labor  as  en- 
nobling, and  not  to  look  down  upon  the 
farmer  or  the  tradesman  as  engaged  in 
occupations  beneath  the  professional 
man,  for  the  one  is  as  noble  as  the 
other.  The  professions  may  require 
more  study,  but  those  having  attain- 
ments in  these  directions  should  not 
look  down  upon  those  who  are  skilled 
in  the  trades.  Professions  and  handi- 
crafts, should  go  hand  in  hand. 

We  desire  our  children  to  get  a  good, 
solid  education,  both  secular  and  spir- 
itual. We  would  like  our  people  to 
sustain  the  Church  schools  and  let 
their  children  spend  some  time  in  them 
— a  year,  two  years,  four  years  if  they 
can  afford  it — so  that  they  may  have 
opportunity  to  study  theology.  We 
have  excellent  school  all  over  the  state, 
and  the  people  should  make  the  best 
use  of  them;  and  when  the  children  get 
through  the  grades  let  them  attend  our 
Church  schools.  The  Church  has  ad- 
vanced a  great  deal  of  money  to  sus- 


tain these  institutions,  >n  order  ihat 
our  boys  and  girls  may  attend  them 
and  become  grounded  in  the  faith. 
Our  faith  is  valued  6>0  highly  by  us 
that  we  want  them  to  appreciate  it 
also,  and  it  is  gratifying  to  see  that 
when  they  receive  religious;  instruc- 
tions in  these  schools  they  love  it.  To- 
some  it  may  be  irksome,  but  there  are 
few  who  complain  of  theological  studv 
in  the  school.  It  is  for  religious  train- 
ing especially  that  Church  schools, 
have  been  established.  If  a  student 
wants  to  take  only  the  secular  branch- 
es of  education,  with  theology  elim- 
inated, he  can  get  all  he  wants  at  the 
state  institutions;  but  he  must  attend 
the  Church  schools  if  he  wishes  re- 
ligious instruction.  We  would  en- 
courage our  people  to  give  this  due 
thought.  We  cannot  overestimate  the 
value  of  giving  our  children  an  op- 
portunity to  study  under  teachers  who- 
will  teach  them  the  way  of  life  and 
salvation.  Of  course,  a  great  many 
cannot  attend  the  Church  schools.  We 
would  like  such  to  have  a  chance  to 
obtain  religious  instruction,  and  for 
this  purpose  religion  classes  have  been 
established.  I  was  thankful  that  the 
President  brought  them  to  our  notice. 
I  hope  that  all  of  us  will  try  to  make 
these  religion  classes  do  as  much  good 
as  possible  to  our  children. 

I  rejoice,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  see- 
ing the  progress  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  making,  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  At  home  I  see  that  the  quor- 
ums of  the  Priesthood  are  awakening 
to  their  duties,  and  that  in  many  of 
the  Stakes  the  Presidents  and  their 
counselors,  the  Bishops  and  their 
counselors,  are  taking  an  active  part 
in  making  the  quorum  meetings  inter- 
esting unto  the  members.  The  quor- 
ums are  indeed  like  schools,  in  them 
the  duties  of  the  Priesthood  can  and 
should  be  taught,  so  that  every  one, 
from  the  Deacon  to  the  High  Priest, 
may  learn  his  duty,  and  not  be  ignor- 
ant of  what  pertains  to  the  office  as- 
signed him.  Abroad  the  work  is  pro- 
gressing. Among  the  Greeks  the  Gos- 
pel has  been  sounded,  pamphlets  have 
been  printed,  and  a  few  people  haver 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


11 


been  baptized.  In  all  the  countries  of 
Europe  there  are  Latter-day  Saints, 
excepting  Spain  and  Portugal,  though 
there  are  not  many  in  Southern  Eu- 
rope. I  hope  that  the  time  may-  soon 
come  when  the  Gospel  door- shall  be 
opened  in  these  nations,  and  that  the 
light  may  shine  upon  those  who  still 
sit  in  darkness.  Our  missions  in  the 
United  States  are  prospering.  The 
Southern  States  mission  is  reaching 
out  even  to  the  islands  in  the  ocean, 
and  I  hope  they  will  succeed  in  plant- 
ing the  Gospel  there.  From  everywhere 
we  receive  good  reports  concerning  the 
Saints,  and  the  missionaries  feel  en- 
couraged, though  baptisms  are  not  as 
numerous  as  they  would  like.  Never- 
theless, when  the  time  comes  and  the 
Lord  shall  work  uoon  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  we  may  see  manv  Pentecosts 
in  different  lands.  In  regard  to  the 
printed  word,  I  may  say  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  being  printed  in  the 
Turkish  language;  and  Brother  Aima 
0.  Taylor,  in  Japan,  is  nearing  the 
completion  of  the  translation  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  in  that  difficult  lan- 
guage. We  are  trying  to  do  what  we 
can  to  bear  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  us,  namely  that  the  Gos- 
pel be  preached  unto  all  nations.  God 
bless  you  all.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  united 
in  singing  the  hymn. 

Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 
Our  shadow  by  day,  and  our  pillar  by 
night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all! 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  David  H.  Cannon,  and  confer- 
ence was  adjourned  till  2  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

Conference  convened  at  2  p.  m. 

The  ohoir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn  beginning, 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 


And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wil- 
liam McLachlan. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah! 

Jesus   anointed   that   Prophet  and 

,  Seer; 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation, 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations 
revere. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
can  hardly  express  to  you  the  gratitude 
I  feel  for  the  privilege  of  attending  this- 
great  conference,  looking  over  this 
large  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  witnessing  the  feeling  of 
unity  of  purpose  that  has  brought  you 
together.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
increasing.  The  work  of  the  Lord  is 
spreading  abroad,  and  we  are  witnesses 
that  there  is  remarkable  evidence  of 
this  fact  today.  I  rejoice  when  I  hear 
such  a  report  as  we  listened  to  this 
morning  from  the  President  of  the- 
Church,  concerning  the  union  of  the- 
Saints  and  their  endeavors  to  do  the 
will  of  the  Father  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments. 

Seventy-six   years    ago    today  the- 
Church  was  organized,  and  beside  the 
six  persons  who  were  the  charter  mem- 
bers of  the  organization,  there  were 
very  few  who  belonged  to  the  Church 
at  that  time,  hence  we  conclude  that 
the  work  has  greatly  increased,  andi 
the  truth  continues  to  spread  abroad 
over  many  lands  and  among  many  peo- 
ple.    The  Lord  is  fulfilling  His  pre- 
diction to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  He 
would  bring  to  pass  "a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder."  I  have  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge of  the  fact  that  the  Church  has 
disseminated   among  the   children  of 
men  principles  of  truth,  righteousness- 
and  love,  and  not  principles  of  hate.  It 
is  love  of  the  Gospel  that  has  prompt- 
ed so  many  people  to  receive  the  mes- 
sage which  was  brought  unto  them  by 
the  followers  of  the  Prophet,  who  was- 
the  means,  under  our  Savior,  of  intro— 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ducing  this  great  work  in  the  earth. 
Soon  after  the  return  of  Zion's  Camp 
in  the  fall  of  1834  (in  the  spring  of  1835), 
the  first  Twelve  Apostles  in  this  dis- 
pensation were  chosen  and  ordained. 
Two  full  quorums  of  Seventy  were  also 
organized,  and  from  those  two  quor- 
ums the  number  has  increased  until 
now  we  have  in  the  Church  upwards  of 
9,000  Seventies,  and  148  quorums  or- 
ganized, with  still  others  in  prospect. 
We  have  very  great  occasion  to  rejoice., 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  because  of 
the  prosperity  of  the  Saints  in  every 
part  of  the  land,  and  the  prosperity  of 
our  missions  in  the  different  nations  of 
the  earth.  We  have  at  this  time  nearly 
2,000  Elders  in  the  field  proclaiming  the 
Gospel,  devoting  their  best  energies  to 
spreading  the  truth,  offering  their  time 
and  means,  and  the  best  talents  they 
possess,  even  risking  their  lives  if  nec- 
essary to  fulfill  the  missions  assigned 
them. 

After  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  presidency  of  the 
Church  devolved  upon  the  quorum  of 
the  Apostles,  and  President  Brigham 
Young  stood  at  their  head  as  captain 
and  file  leader,  to  carry  out  the  plans 
that  had  been  designated  by  the  Proph- 
et Joseph.  There  were  many  hundreds, 
perhaps  thousands,  present  at  the  meet- 
ing held  in  the  grove  near  the  Temple 
a  t  Nauvoo,  in  August,  1844,  when  Pres- 
ident Young  was  recognized  by  mirac- 
ulous manifestation  as  the  leader  of  the 
Church,  and  they  have  testified  it  was 
evident  that  the  mantle  of  Joseph  the 
Prophet  fell  upon  him.  I  was  looking 
over  the  record  a  few  days  ago,  and 
tried  to  ascertain  how  many  of  that 
number  are  still  living  who  can  bear 
►witness  to  that  remarkable  event.  I 
had  a  letter  recently  from  Brothers 
Horace  and  John  R.  Murdoch  of  Bea- 
ver, who  testify  that  they  were  eye- 
witnesses to  the  wonderful  transforma- 
tion and  power  manifested  through 
President  Brigham  Young  on  that  oc- 
casion. Of  the  many  hundreds  who  wit- 
nessed that  event  you  can  almost  count 
upon  your  10  fingers  the  number  that 
are  still  living. 

When  we  came  to  this  Rocky  Moun- 
tain region  it  was  practically  an  un- 


known land.  It  was  designated  on  the 
maps  of  our  country  as  the  Great 
American  Desert,  and  this  valley  was 
almost  the  central  portion  of  it;  a 
country  where  no  white  man  lived,  and 
which  even  Indians  shunned.  But  the 
Lord's  blessing  rested  upon  this  land 
and  upon  the  people.  Brigham  Young, 
at  a  very  early  date  in  the  settlement 
of  the  country,  began  to  devise  means 
to  improve  the  conditions  of  the  people 
in  every  way  possible,  to  increase  their 
chances  of  living  and  prospering  in 
this  desert  region.  The  Lord  abund- 
antly blessed  the  labors  of  the  people, 
and  from  that  little  hand-full  in  the 
desert,  communities  have  grown  and 
spread  throughout  all  this  region  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains.  This  fulfills  a  pre- 
diction of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
made  in  1842,  when  he  prophesied  that 
the  Saints  would  continue  to  be  driven 
and  persecuted,  and  that  they  would  fi- 
nally leave  their  homes  and  journey  to 
the  west;  many  would  lay  down  their 
lives  by  the  wayside,  and  some  would 
lose  faith,  but  many  of  the  Saints 
would  arrive  in  the  Rocky  Mountains 
and  there  become  a  great  and  mighty 
people.  We  are  witnesses  today  of  +he 
literal  fulfillment  of  this  prophecy. 

In  the  beginning  of  our  history  here, 
President  Brigham  Young  established 
manufactories  of  clothing,  of  leather, 
of  boots  and  shoes  and  other  articles. 
Home  industry  was  a  frequent  theme 
of  his  counsel  and  admonition  to  the 
Saints  in  the  hope  that  they  might 
adopt  it,  and  thereby  become  an  inde- 
pendent people.  A  woolen  factory 
was  established  in  Boxelder  county,  one 
in  Weber  county,  two  in  Salt  Lake 
county,  one  in  Washington  county,  near 
St.  George,  and  finally  a  larger  one  in 
Provo.  All  of  these  institutions  were, 
within  my  memory,  prosperous  and  ad- 
vancing in  usefulness,  and  making 
wealth  by  reason  of  the  patronage 
given  to  them  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
But  by  degrees  we  have  displayed  less 
loyalty  to  these  institutions,  and  the 
industries  have  decreased,  until  the 
last  of  these  beneficial  institutions  has 
become  a  thing  of  the  past.  I  refer 
to  the  closing  down  of  the  factory  at 
Provo,  through  lack  of  patronage.  I 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


13 


speak  of  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  order  to  refer  your  minds  to  past 
history,  and  to  call  your  attention  to 
the  fact  that  had  these  instituions  bean 
supported  in  the  spirit  in  which  they 
were  established  under  the  direction  of 
President  Young,  they  would  have  been 
sources  of  wealth  and  of  help  to  us 
today  and  great  benefit  to  all  the  peo- 
ple in  this  region.  Z.  C.  M.  I.  also  is  an' 
institution  that  was  established  undar 
President  Young's  counsel  and  manage- 
ment, and  it  has  gone  forward  to  a 
wonderful  degree  of  prosperity,  be- 
cause it  has  had  the  loyal  support  of 
the  people,  and  I  trust  it  will  continue 
to  have  it.  ^ 

We  are  certainly  blessed  of  the  Lord 
today;  we  have  been  blessed  every  day 
and  every  hour  since  we  obeyed  the 
Gospel,  and  entered  into  covenant  with 
Him,  provided  we  have  kept  that  cove- 
nant. When  I  look  over  the  statistical 
reports  of  our  missionaries  laboring  in 
every  land  of  the  globe  where  they  have 
been  sent  I  rejoice  exceedingly.  The 
missions  already  established  are  grow- 
ing in  importance,  the  Seventies  and 
the  Elders  are  going  out  and  unstint- 
edly giving  the  best  powers  of  their 
manhood  to  develop  this  cause,  to  pro-> 
claim  the  truth,  and  to  scatter  the  seedn 
of  the  Gospel  for  the  redemption  of  the 
human  family  far  and  wide  in  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

I  testify  to  you  today  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
His  Prophet,  and  will  ever  be  the  Pres- 
ident and  leader  of  this  dispensation. 
I  testify  that  our  President  today,  and 
those  who  are  associated  with  him  are 
the  men  our  Father  has  chosen  to  lead 
us  and  to  guide  the  destinies  of  Israel 
at  the  present  time,  to  push  forward 
the  work  'with  strong  hands  and  mighty 
power.  That  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 
and  the  Spirit  of  His  presence  may  rest 
upon  this  conference  throughout,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER   BRIGHAM    H.  ROBERTS. 

Among  the  things  important  for  the 
Saints  of  God  to  understand,  among 
the  things  important  for  the  world 
to   understand    respecting    the  Lat- 


ter-day Saints,  is  the  relation- 
ship that  we  sustain  to  the  religious 
world;  and  I  do  not  know  that  there 
is  anything  to  which  I  could  devote  the 
few  minutes  at  my  disposal  to  better 
advantage  than  pointing  out  that  rela- 
tionship, if  I  can  obtain,  through  your 
faith  and  mine,  the  liberty  that  comes 
from  the  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord. 

The   first  revelation   that   the  Lord 
gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had 
a  bearing  upon  this  subject.    You  re- 
member that  the  Prophet  went  to  the 
Lord  to  ascertain  which  of  all  the  sects 
of  religion  was  His  church,  desiring,  of 
course,  to  unite  himself     with  that 
church  which  the  Lord  would  designate 
as  His.    In  reply  to  that  question  the 
Lord,  in  substance,  said  that  they  were 
all  wrong;  that  He  did  not  acknowledge 
them  as  His  church;     and      told  the 
Prophet  he  must  join  none  of  them, 
but  promised  that  in  due  time  He  would 
use  the  Prophet  as  His  instrument  in 
the   establishment   of  His   Church  in 
the  earth.    Because  of  this  great  reve- 
lation, by  which  the  errors  of  ages  were 
swept  aside  and  the  ground  cleared 
for     the     re-establishment     of  the 
Church  of  Christ  among  men,  it  has 
placed  us  in  a  way  in  an  attitude  of 
antagonism  to  the  religious  world.  We- 
have  been  resisted  to  some  extent  be- 
cause of  this  attitude  of  antagonism; 
and  it  is  quite  possible  that  we  our- 
selves have  not  understood  the  true  re- 
lationship in  which  we  stand  to  the  re- 
ligious world,  by  more  or  less  of  mis- 
apprehension respecting  this  great  rev- 
elation.   I  rejoice  in  the  plainness  and 
emphasis   of  this   revelation,  because- 
from  it  I  am  made  to  realize  that  there 
is  a  very  important  reason  for  the  ex- 
istence of  the  work  with  which  we  are 
identified.  .  I   am   glad   to  know  that 
"Mormonism"  did  not  come  into  ex- 
istence because  its  founders  chanced  to 
disagree  with  prevailing  notions  about 
the  form  or  object  of  baptism;  that  it 
did  not  come  into  existence  through 
a  disagreement  as  to  the  character  or 
the  government  of  the  Church.  From 
the  revelation  referred  to  I  learn  that 
"Mormonism"  came  into  existence  be- 
cause there  was  an  absolute  necessilv 


14 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


for  a  new  dispensation  of  the  Gospel, 
a  re-establishment  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  among  men.  The  Gospel  had 
been  corrupted;  its  ordinances  had  been 
changed;  its  laws  transgressed,  its 
truths  so  far  lost  to  the  children  of  men 
that  it  rendered  this  new  dispensation 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ — miscalled  "Mor 
monism" — necessary.  I  say  that  I  re- 
joice in  the  fact  that  "Mormonism" 
came  into  the  world,  and  exists  in  the 
world  today,  because  the  world  stood  in 
sore  need  of  it.  But  does  this  re-estab- 
lishment of  the  Church  of  Christ,  ihis 
new  dispensation  of  the  Gospel,  which 
we  have  received,  make  our  relation- 
ship to  the  children  of  men  one  of  un- 
friendliness? I  answer,  No.  On  the 
contrary  our  relationship  to  men  is 
one  of  absolute  friendship  and  anxiety 
to  do  the  world  good.  "We  ought  to  un- 
derstand that.  We  do  understand  it. 
And  it  is  important  that  the  world 
should  understand  it,  that  they  may 
come  to  regard  us  in  our  true  light,  as 
friends  of  humanity,  and  not  enemies. 

If  you  will  look  through  some  of  the 
revelations  given  in  the  early  history  cf 
the  Church,  you  will  find  that  from  time 
to  time  the  Lord  was  under  the  neces- 
sity of  correcting  the  ideas  of  the  breth- 
'  ren  respecting  their  attitude  towards 
religious  world.  The  Lord  said  to 
Martin  Harris,  bT~  way  of  correction: 

"Thou  shalt  declare  glad  tidings, 
yea,  publish  it  upon  the  mountains,  and 
upon  every  high  place,  and 
among  every  people  that  thou 
shalt  be  permitted  to  see.  And 
thou  shalt  do  it  with  all  humility, 
trusting  in  me,  reviling  not  against 
revilers.  And  of  tenets  thou  shalt  not 
talk,  but  thou  yhalt  declare  repentance 
and  faith  on  the  Savior,  and  remis- 
sion of  sin  by  baptism  and  by  fire, 
yea,  even  the  Holy  Ghost." 

The  Prophet  also  from  time  to  time 
found  it  necessary  to  correct  the  El- 
ders of  the  Charch  in  respect  of  their 
attacking  other  churches.  At  Kirtland, 
in  18  36,  when  many  of  the  Elders  were 
upon  the  eve  of  taking  their  departure 
for  their  fields  of  labor  he  instructed 
them  as  follows: 

"While  waiting  [for  the  Sacrament] 
T  made  the  following  remarks:  The 
time  that  we  were  required  to  tarry  in 
JtCirtland  to  be  endowed  would  be  ful- 


filled in  a  few  days,  and  then  the  El- 
ders would  go  forth,  and  each  stand 
for  himself  .  .  .  .  to  go  in  all 
meekness,  in  sobriety,  and  preach 
Christ  and  Him  crucified;  not  to  con- 
tend with  others  on  account  of  their 
faith  or  systems  of  religion,  but  pur- 
sue a  steady  course.  This  I  delivered 
by  way  of  commandment;  and  all  who 
observe  it  not,  will  pull  down  persecu- 
tion upon  their  heads,  while  those 
who  do,  shall  always  be  filled  with  the 
Holy  Ghost;  this  I  pronounced  as  a 
prophesy."  (History  of  the  Church, 
vol.  II,  p.  431.) 

In  other  words,  because  the  Lord 
has  opened  the  heavens  and  has  given 
a  new  dispensation  of  the  Gospel,  it 
does  not  follow  that  His  servants  or 
His  people  are  to  be  contentious;  that 
they  are  to  make  war  upon  other  peo- 
ple for  holding  different  views  respect- 
ing religion.  Hence  this  caution  to 
the  Elders  of  the  Church  that  they 
should  not  contend  against  other 
churches,  make  war  upon  their  tenets, 
or  revile  even  the  revilers.  At  an 
earlier  date  still,  the  Lord  had  said  to 
Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer: 

"If  you  have  not  faith,  hope  and 
Charity,  you  can  do  nothing.  Con- 
tend against  no  church,  save  it  be 
the  church  of  the  devil.  Take  upon 
you  the  name  of  Christ,  and  speak  the 
truth  in  soberness."  (Dec.  &  Cov.  Sec. 
18,  19-21.) 

"The  church  of  the  devil"  here  al- 
luded to  I  understand  to  mean  not  any 
particular  church  among  men,  or  any 
one  sect  of  religion,  but  something 
larger  than  that — something  world- 
wide— something  that  includes  within 
its  boundaries  all  evil  wherever  it  may 
be  found;  as  well  in  schools  of  philos- 
ophy as  in  Christian  sects;  as  well  in 
systems  of  ethics  as  in  systems  of  re- 
ligion— something  that  includes  the 
whole  empire  of  Satan — what  I  shall 
call  "The  Kingdom  of  Evil." 

This  descriptive  phrase,  "the  church 
of  the  devil,"  is  also  used  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon;  and  while  in  attendance 
at  a  conference  in  one  of  the  border 
stakes  of  Zion,  a  question  was  pro- 
pounded to  me  in  relation  to  its  mean- 
ing. The  passage  occurs  in  the  writ- 
ings of  the  first  Nephi.  An  angel  of 
the  Lord  is  represented  as  saying  to 
Nephi,   "Behold,   there  are  save  two 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


15 


churches  only:  the  one  is  the  church  of 
the  Lamb  of  God,  and  the  "Other  is  the 
church  of  the  devil."  The  question 
submitted  to  me  was,  "Is  the  Catholic 
church  the  church  here  referred  to — 
the  church  of  the  devil?"  "Well,"  said 
I,  in  answer,  "I  would  not  like  to  take 
that  position,  because  it  would  leave 
me  with  a  lot  of  churches  on  my 
hands  that  I  might  not  then  be  able 
to  classify."  So  far  as  the  Catholic 
-church  is  concerned,  I  believe  that 
there  is  just  as  much  truth,  nay,  per- 
sonally I  believe  it  has  retained  even 
more  truth  than  other  divisions  of  so- 
called  Christendom;  and  there  is  just 
.as  much  virtue,  and  I  am  sure  there 
is  more  strength  in  the  Roman  Catho- 
lic church  than  there  is  in  Protestant 
■Christendom. 

I  would  not  like,  therefore,  to  designate 
the  Catholic  church  as  the  church  of 
the  devil.  Neither  would  I  like  to  des- 
ignate any  one  or  all  of  the  various  di- 
visions and  subdivisions  of  Protestant 
■Christendom  combined  as  such  church; 
nor  the  Greek  Catholic  church;  nor  the 
Buddhist  sects;  nor  the  followers  of 
■Confucius;  nor  the  followers  of  Mo- 
hammed; nor  would  I  like  to  desig- 
nate even  the  societies  formed  by 
deists  and  atheists  as  constituting  the 
•church  of  the  devil.  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon text  ought  to  be  read  in  connec- 
tion with  its  context— with  the  chap- 
ter that  precedes  it  and  the  remaining 
portions  of  the  chapter  in  which  it  is 
found— then,  I  think,  those  who  study 
it  in  that  manner  will  be  forced  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  Prophet  here  has 
in  mind  no  particular  church,  no  par- 
ticular division  of  Christendom,  but  he 
has  in  mind,  as  just  stated,  the  whole 
■empire  of  Satan;  and  perhaps  the 
thought  of  the  passage  would  be  more 
nearly  expressed  if  we  use  the  term 
"the  kingdom  of  evil"  as  constituting 
the  church  of  the  devil. 

I  understand  the  injunction  to  Oli- 
ver Cowdery  to  "contend  against  no 
church,  save  it  be  the  church  of  the 
■devil,"  to  mean  that  he  shall  contend 
against  evil,  against  untruth,  against 
all  combinations  of  wicked  men.  They 
constitute  the  church  of  the  devil,  the 
kingdom  of  evil,  a  federation  of  un- 


righteousness; and  the  servants  of  God 
have  a  right  to  contend  against  that 
which  is  evil,  let  it  appear  where  it 
will,  in  Catholic  or  in  Protestant  Chris- 
tendom,  among  the  philosophical  so- 
cieties of  deists  and  atheists,  and  even 
within  the  Church  of  Christ,  if,  un- 
happily, it  should  make  its  appearance 
there.    But,  let  it  be  understood,  we 
are  not  brought  necessarily  into  antag- 
onism with  the  various  sects  of  Chris- 
tianity as  such.    So  far  as  they  have 
retained  fragments  of  Christian  truth 
—and  each  of  them  has  some  measure 
of  truth— that  far  they  are  acceptable 
unto  the  Lord;  and  it  would  be  poor 
policy  for  us  to  contend  against  them 
without  discrimination.    Wherever  we 
find  truth,  whether  it  exists  in  complete 
form  or  only  in  fragments,  we  recognize 
that  truth  as  part  of  that  sacred  whole 
of  which  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  custodian;  and  I  repeat  that  our 
relationship  to  the  religious  world  is  not 
one  that  calls  for  the  denunciation  of 
sectarian   churches  as  composing  the 
church  of  the  devil.   All  that  makes  for 
untruth,   ¥or   unrighteousness  conlsti- 
tutes  the  kingdom  of  evil — the  church 
of  the  devil.   All  that  makes  for  truth, 
for  righteousness,  is  of  God;  it  consti- 
tutes the  kingdom  of  righteousness — 
the  empire  of  Jehovah;  and,  in  a  cer- 
tain  sense   at   least,   eonlstitutes  the 
Church  of  Christ.    With  the  latter— 
the  kingdom  of  righteousness — we  have 
no  warfare.    On  the  contrary  both  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord's  commandments  to 
His  servants  and  the  dictates  of  right 
reason  would  suggest  that  we  seek  to 
enlarge  this  kingdom  of  righteousness 
both  by  recognizing  such  truths  as  it 
possesses  and  seeking  the  friendship 
and  co-operation  of  the  righteous  men 
and  women  who  constitute  its  mem- 
bership. 

Running  parallel  with  these  thoughts, 
I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  call  your  atten- 
tion to  a  remark  I  made  in  one  of  these 
general  conferences  some  time  ago,  to 
the  effect  that  when  misrepresentations 
are  made  of  us,  or  our  faith,  or  when 
persecution  arises  against  us,  it  must 
not  embitter  our  minds,  or  make  us 
feel  hateful  toward  our  fellowmen,  or 
lead  us  to  regard  the  whole  world  as 


1') 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


our  enemies.  We  must  keep  the  sweet- 
ness of  our  own  disposition.  The  lan- 
guage of  the  Savior  wherein  He  says, 
"Marvel  not  if  the  world  hate  you:  it 
hated  me  before  it  hated  you,  if  you 
were  of  the  world,  the  world  would 
love  its  own,"  etc.,  I  contended  then 
and  believe  now  that  the  truth  of 
that  declaration  Avill  be  more  plainly 
seen  if  we  read  it  in  this  way:  "Mar- 
vel not  if  the  worldly  hate  you."  If 
the  ungodly,  if  those  who  make  and  love 
a  lie— if  such  classes  as  this  hate  you, 
marvel  not;  for  they  were  the  classes 
that  hated  the  Christ  and  the  light  and 
truth  that  He  brought  into  the  world, 
because  their  deeds  were  evil,  and  His 
light  and  truth  were  a  reproof  to  their 
evil  ways.  And  as  we  say  concerning 
the  "kingdom  of  evil,"  so  we  say  with 
reference  to  those  who  hate  the  truth 
and  make  war  upon  the  righteous,  they 
are  not  of  any  one  class,  or  confined 
to  any  one  sect  or  division  of  the  re- 
ligious world,  but,  unhappily,  are  found 
here  and  there  among  all  classes  of 
people,  among  all  Christian  sects,among 
all  religions  and  sects  of  philosophy. 
We  ought  to  rightly  divide,  not  only 
the  word  of  truth,  but  the  wicked  and 
the  ungodly  from  those  who  in  com- 
mon with  us  are  seeking  to  know  God 
and  to  keep  His  commandments.  And 
there  are  millions  who  are  hungering 
and  thirsting  for  that  knowledge;  and 
we  from  time  to  time  shall  find  them 
and  lead  them  into  God's  temple  of 
truth,  where  they  shall  be  satisfied  at 
the  feast  that  the  Lord  is  preparing  for 
all  those  who  hunger  and  thirst  after 
righteousness. 

The  purpose  of  the  Lord  in  institut- 
ing His  Church  in  the  earth  is  very 
beautifully  set  forth  in  one  of  the 
revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, as  follows: 

(I  discover  that  I  do  not  readily  find 
the  passage,  and  so  I  pass  it  for  the 
moment.)  The  thought  that  I  desire  to 
express  and  leave  with  you,  however, 
is  this,  that  as  in  the  matter  of  phys- 
ical warfare  so  also  In  the  matter  of 
theological  contention,  I  believe  it  is 
proper  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  re- 
nounce war  and  proclaim  peace;  not 


to  take  such  a  course  as  would  excite 
the  antagonism  of  the  world,  but  seek- 
ing rather  such  ground-work  of  truth 
as  may  be  held  in  common  between 
them  and  ourselves;  for  the  Lord  has 
brought  forth  His  work  in  the  last 
days,  not  for  the  purpose  of  subtract- 
ing from  such  truth  as  men  may  pos- 
sess, but  to  add  to  that  truth,  to  in- 
crease it,  to  enlarge  it,  until  at  the  last 
God,  through  the  agencies  He  has  ap- 
pointed, shall  gather  together  in  one 
system  all  truth. 

The  passage  I  was  looking  for  is 
kindly  handed  to  me,  and  is  as  follows: 

"If  this  generation  harden  not  their 
hearts,  I  will  establish  my  Church 
among  them. 

"Now  I  do  not  say  this  to  destroy 
my  Church,  but  I  say  this  to  build  up 
mv  Church. 

"Therefore,  whosoever  belongeth  to 
my  Church  need  not  fear,  for  such  shall . 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"But  it  is  they  who  do  not  fear  me,, 
neither  keep  my  commandments,  but 
build  up  churches  unto  themselves  to 
get  gain,  yea,  and  all  those  that  do- 
wickedly  and  build  up  the  kingdom  of 
the  devil;  yea,  verily,  verily,- 1  say  unto 
you,  that  it  is  they  that  I  will  disturb, 
and  cause  to  tremble  and  shake  to  the 
center." 

I  read  this  in  confirmation  of  the 
word  I  spoke, saying  that  the  purpose  of 
God  in  the  introduction  of  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Fulness  of  Times  was  not 
to  destroy  any  truth  that  existed  in 
the  world,  but  to  add  to  that  truth,  to 
increase  it,  and  to  draw  together  all 
truth  and  develop  it  into  a  beautiful 
system  in  which  men  may  rest  con- 
tented, knowing  God  and  their  relation- 
ship to  Him,  knowing  of  the  future 
and  their  relation  unto  it. 

We  should  present  our  message  to  the 
world  in  the  spirit  of  peace,  charity 
and  longsuffering;  and  avoid  conten- 
tion; for  as  our  Book  of  Mormon  tells 
us.  he  that  hath  the  spirit  of  conten- 
tion is  not  of  God.  I  would  the  world 
could  understand  the  unselfisnness  of 
our  motives  in  presenting  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  them;  if  they  could 
only  know  that  our  only  desire  was  that 
they  should  come  to  a  knowl- 
edge    of     the     great     principles  of 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


17 


truth  that  are  so  comforting  to 
us;  that  we  desire  their  repentance 
and  acceptance  of  the  fulness  of  the 
truth,  only  that  they  might  find  favor 
with  God,  and  share  in  our  hopes  of 
that  eternal  life,  which  God,  who  can- 
not lie,  promised  before  the  world  was — 
if  our  fellowmen  could  be  made  to  un- 
derstand that  this  was  our  only  pmv 
pose,  it  seems  to  me  that  many  of  the 
barriers  that  now  separate  us  from  our 
fellowmen  would  be  broken  down,  and 
we  would  be  able  to  reach  the  hearts  of 
the  people.  I  believe  that  as  time  passes 
and  we  become  wiser  in  the  methods 
of  work  we  adopt,  we  will  do  that  more 
and  more,  causing  yet,  not  only  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  but  millions  of  our 
Father's  children  to  partake  of  those 
great  blessings  that  the  Gospel  has 
brought  to  us.  To  make  known  these 
truths  and  to  make  the  children  of  men 
participate  in  the  blessings  that  we 
ourselves  enjoy,  we  yearly  send  hun- 
dreds of  our  Elders  to  the  various  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  They  sacrifice  the 
fond  associations  of  home,  the  society 
of  wives  and  children,  parents  and 
friends;  they  sacrifice  professional  ad- 
vantages and  business  opportunities; 
and  sometimes  sacrifice  health  and  even 
life  itself  to  proclaim  to  the  world  thw 
truth  which  God  has  made  known  to  us 
—enduring  the  world's  reproach  and 
contumely,  because  the  world  does  not 
understand  them  nor  their  message; 
and  there  is  still  need,  of  the  prayer 
on  our  part,  "Father,  forgive  them, 
they  know  not  what  they  do."  For  the 
benefit  of  those  who  have  passed  away 
from  the  earth  without  a  knowledge  of 
the  great  truths  and  saving  power  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ,  we  rear  costly 
temples,  whose  spires  pierce  the  skies 
of  our  beloved  Utah;  and  within  them 
at  great  sacrifice  of  time  and  means  the 
saints  of  God  assemble  to  apply  the 
principles  of  the  everlasting  Gospel  t& 
those  who  have  passed  away  withouv 
the  privilege  of  accepting  them  while 
upon  the  earth.  A  more  completely 
unselfish  work  than  this  does  not  ex- 
ist among  men.  On  every  hand  the 
work  of  God  bears  the  stamp  of  unself- 
ishness upon  it.  Our  Book  of  Mormon 
says:  "The  laborers  in  Zion  shall  labor 


for  Zion;  for  if  they  labor  for  money, 
they  shall  perish."  So  through  all  the 
communications  of  God  to  His  people 
shines  the  glorious  principle  of  absolute 
unselfishness.  Not  only  is  it  to  be 
found  in  the  words  of  our  books,  but 
a  like  testimony  is  written  in  the  works 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints — in  their  ac- 
tions. Everywhere  unselfishness 
abounds  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  both 
in  theory  and  practice.  Now,  if  we  can 
only  get  the  people  of  the  world  to  un- 
derstand this  fact  of  unselfishness — this 
very  genius  of  Mormonism — if  they 
could  be  made  to  know  that  Mormon- 
ism is  here  to  do  good,  to  raise  man- 
kind from  the  low  levels  on  which  they 
walk  to  the  higher  plains  where  God 
would  have  them  walk,  that  they  might 
have  sweet  fellowship  with  God,  much 
of  our  difficulty  in  preaching  the  gospel 
would  disappear.  That  the  Lord  may 
hasten  the  day  when  the  world  shall 
know  the  Saints  and  the  work  of  God 
better,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Lift 
up  the  voice  in  singing." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

In  the  few  minutes  I  occupy  I  de- 
sire to  talk  about  the  Lord's  army. 
You  know  the  Lord  has  an  army, 
"Soldiers  of  the  cross,"  just  as  the 
United  States  has  a  regular  standing 
army.  The  Church  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  an  army  of  soldiers  num- 
bering, approximately,  8,000.  They 
are  minute  men,  so-called.  It  is  their 
duty  to  preach  the  Gospel,  continuous- 
ly, among  the  children  of  men.  They 
belong  to  the  regular  army  of  the 
Church;  they  are  not  volunteers;  and 
whenever  called  by  divine  authority, 
to  go  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  they 
are  expected  to  be  ready  and  prepared 
to  go.  This  army  of  the  Lord's  soldiers 
go  out  and  battle  against  the  kingdom 
of  evil,  which  Brother  Roberts  has 
been  talking  about.  Now,  my  ex- 
perience has  taught  me  that  the  king- 
dom of  evil  is  not  going  to  lie  down 
quietly  while  we  are  kicking  it.  You 
will  generally  find  that  enemy  quite 
ready  for  a  fight. 


18 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Whenever  these  witnesses  are  moved 
uijon  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  tes- 
tify that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  then  trou- 
ble begins;  they  need  not  attack  the 
religions  of  other  churches.  I  promise 
every  Elder  who  is  called  by  divine 
authority  to  preach  the  Gospel,  if  he 
will  testify  to  those  truths  he  will 
have  all  the  trouble  he  can  stand. 
Furthermore,  the  Elders  must  now 
have  a  little  money  while  traveling 
else  their  enemies  will  make  it  very 
uncomfortable  for  them.  I  am  inform- 
ed that  laws  have  been  passed  in  cities 
of  the  Southern  States,  where  thou- 
sands of  our  Elders  formerly  traveled 
without  purse  or  scrip,  so  that  if  any 
of  them  are  now  found  in  cities  asking 
for  entertainment,  they  are  placed  in 
prison.  I  believe  that  some  of  our 
Elders  might  do  good  in  prison,  as  the 
Lord  sometimes  manifests  His  power 
in  behalf  of  imprisoned  Elders,  and 
strengthens  their  testimonies. 

I  am  very  much  interested  in  this 
army  of  the  Lord,  and  in  order  to  pre- 
face my  remarks  I  will  read  some 
statements  made  at  our  last  confer- 
ence. Following  is  a  quotation  from 
the  closing  address  delivered  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  Oct.  8,  1905. 

"I  feel  like  blessing  the  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood,  every  one  of  them, 
from  the  High  Priests  to  the  Deacons. 
I  pray  God,  my  Heavenly  Father,  to 
remember  them  in  their  organizations, 
to  help  them,  that  they  may  magnify 
the  Priesthood  they  hold  and  do  the 
will  of  the  Father;  that  the  Seventies 
may  be  minute  men,  instant  in  season 
and  out  of  season,  ready  and  willing 
to  respond  to  the  calls  that  are  made 
upon  them  to  go  and  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  the  world.  Gather  in  from  the 
Elders  quorums  those  who  have  proven 
themselves  worthy  and  who  have  gain- 
ed experience,  and  make  Seventies  of 
them,  so  that  the  quorums  of  the 
Seventies  may  be  replenished;  and  the 
aged  ones,  whose  physical  condition 
will  not  permit  them  any  longer  to  do 
missionary  duty  in  the  world,  let  them 
be  ordained  High  Priests  and  Patri- 
archs, to  bless  the  people  and  to  min- 
ister at  home.  Gather  in  the  strong, 
the  vigorous,  the  young,  the  able- 
bodied  who  have  the  spirit  of  the  Gos- 
pel in  their  hearts,  to  fill  the  ranks 
of  the  Seventies,  that  we  may  have 
ministers  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 


world.  They  are  needed.  We  cannot 
now  meet  the  demand." 

That  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Seventies,  and  to  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  and  Bishops  of  wards.  We 
should  search  among  our  young  peo- 
ple carefully  and  advance  the  worthy 
ones  in  the  Priesthood,  so  that  we  can 
replenish  the  Seventies'  quorums  with 
good,  able-bodied  men  who  are  will- 
ing to  perform  the  arduous  labors 
connected  with  preaching  the  Gospel. 
This  labor  is  difficult;  it  is  hard  upon 
the  Seventies  and  Elders,  for  they  are 
sent  into  all  the  climates  of  the  earth. 
They  go  to  the  islands  of  the  sea,  to 
malarial  districts,  or  to  high  altitudes, 
and  unless  they  are  strong  and  able- 
bodied,  they  break  down  physically. 
To  illustrate,  if  you  send  an  Elder  to 
Australia,  at  a  cost  perhaps  of  $120, 
and  he  is  sick  with  rheumatism  or 
other  ailments,  and  has  to  return 
home,  all  that  money  is  expended  and 
very  little  accomplished.  I  think  Pres- 
ident Smith  has  told  me,  personally, 
that  to  send  men  out  in  the  missionary 
field  who  are  broken  down  physically, 
demoralizes  the  mission.  It  certainly 
is  a  great  misfortune  to  break  down 
physically  while  on  a  mission.  If  you 
send  out  a  sick  Elder  with  a  com- 
panion who  is  healthy,  strong  and 
able-bodied,  the  healthy  man  is  hin- 
dered from  performing  his  labors  be- 
cause of  the  sickness  of  his  partner. 
If  there  are  easy  places  the  sick  Elders 
have  to  be  sent  there,  so  I  think  it  is 
sometimes  a  misfortune  to  be  healthy 
if  you  have  to  go  to  all  the  hard 
places.  I  say  all  hail  to  the  aged 
Seventies  who  have  been  faithful,  who 
have  labored  .70  years  perhaps,  as 
Brother  Homer  Duncan  did.  He  was 
one  of  the  oldest  presidents  of  Seven- 
ty in  the  Church;  he  was  senior  presi- 
dent of  the  Third  quorum  for  a  great 
many  years.  He  died  lately  over  90 
years  old;  and  he  wanted  to  die  a 
Seventy;  there  was  nothing  that  could 
change  his  mind  regarding  that  mat- 
ter. 

It  seems  to  me  that  some  of  the  aged 
Seventies  have  a  wrong  conception 
regarding  their  change  of  appointment 
to  High  Priests,  so  that  they  can  labor 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


19 


at  home,  sleep  in  their  own  beds,  and  be 
cared  for  by  their  families  This  is  the 
place  for  men  who  are  aged,  and  who 
have  been  faithful  and  diligent  wit- 
nesses of  the  Lord.  It  is  not  good  for 
them  to  be  out  in  the  world,  exposed  as 
our  Elders  have  to  be.  I  am  deeply  in- 
terested in  that  matter,  and  desire  you 
to  give  it  consideration.  The  Seventies 
are  under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  who,  when  they  need  assist- 
ance in  preaching  the  Gospel,  should 
find  such  help  in  the  Seventies  quorums, 
instead  of  any  others,  according  to  the 
revelation  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
But  the  difficulty  is  that  many  of  these 
"soldiers  of  the  cross"  are  aged,  phy- 
sically disabled,  crippled,  and  therefore 
unable  to  go  out  and  perform  this  la- 
bor, and  it  would  not  be  wisdom  to  call 
them.  So  we  need  young  and  healthy 
♦  men. 

I  desire  to  say  further  that  we 
need  a  little  more  discipline,  and 
more  attention  to  the  interests 
of  our  Seventies.  There  are  seven 
Presidents  over  eaeh  of  those  quorums 
in  the  Church,  and  there  are  now  148 
quorums;  but  there  is  a  difficulty  that 
I  think  needs  to  be  looked  after  The 
Sunday  school  numbers  about  .100,000  in 
its  membership.  The  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association  about 
25,000.  These  organizations  have  strong 
General  Boards,  and  there  has  been  a 
wonderful  labor  performed  by  them.  As 
President  Smith  stated  this  morning,  it 
cannot  be  expressed  in  a  few  words 
what  the  Sunday  Schools,  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations  and  other 
auxiliary  organizations  have  accom- 
plished. They  have  been  encouraged, 
held  together,  pushed  and  crowded  to 
their  fullest  capacity  by  their  energetic 
and  capable  officers.  The  Priesthood 
quorums  should  be  foremost  in  this 
Church,  but  some  of  the  members  have 
become  mentally  lazy,  and  have  acted 
as  if  they  expected  their  organizations 
to  keep  together  without  effort.  The 
auxiliaries  have  been  urged  forward 
with,  great  enthusiasm,  everywhere, 
from  Canada  to  Mexico,  these  organi- 
zations are  to  the  front.  The  Priest- 
hood quorums  are  apparently  weary  in 
well  doing,  and  the  officers  and  mem- 


bers seem  to  think  that  their  organi- 
zations can  run  themselves.  They  have 
become  lax  in  their  work,  and  let  loose 
their  hold.  While  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations have  taken  the  right  of  way, 
the  Priesthood  quorums  stand  by  look- 
ing on  awe-struck  at  the  great  phalanx 
of  young  people  who  are  rushing  ahead. 
So  the  auxiliary  organizations  are  going 
away  up  the  hill  and  we,  the  Priesthood 
quorums,  stand  down  in  the  valley  and 
look  on.  Perhaps  you  don't  like  that 
picture,  you  men  of  the  Priesthood 
quorums,  but  I  tell  you  there  is  a  lot 
of  truth  in  it. 

You  owe  first  allegiance  to  your  quor- 
ums and  quorum  meetings,  for  there 
is  where  you  get  your  authority  and 
power.  Why  is  it  that  we  are  different 
from  other  men  in  the  world  It  is  not 
because  we  have  greater  knowledge  and 
information,  but  because  we  hold  the 
Priesthood.  Why  is  it  that  you  fathers 
and  mothers  permit  your  18-year-old 
boys  to  go  to  South  Africa,  Australia, 
Germany,  or  other  nations  of  the  earth, 
notwithstanding  you  are  afraid  to  trust 
them  out  in  this  city  after  dark?  It  is 
because  they  hold  the  Priesthood.  Our 
beardless  boys  are  able  to  defend  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  preach  the 
Gospel.  They  hold  divine  authority, 
and  under  their  administration  the  re- 
pentant believer  is  baptized,  receives 
the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  conferred  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands.  The  arm  of  the  Lord  is  not 
shortened.  These  boys  are  sent  out  in 
His  service  a«d  He  has  told  them  to 
think  not  of  the  morrow,  of  what  they 
shall  eat,  or  what  they  shall  drink,  or 
wherewithal  they  shall  be  clothed,  for 
He  is  amply  able  to  take  care  of  them. 
There  is  no  great  number  of  men  in 
this  Church  so  carefully  looked  after, 
and  their  lives  so  well  preserved,  as  are 
the  Elders  who  preach  the  Gospel  in  the 
world.  I  am  in  favor  of  the  Priest- 
hood quorums  taking  their  proper 
places,  and  if  they  do  not  do  it,  they 
ought  to  be  ashamed  of  themselves,  for 
they  have  the  power  and  intelligence, 
and  they  hold  the  authority.  It  puts 
me  in  mind  of  a  story,  the  only  one  I 
can  think  of  just  now  to  fit  the  condi- 


20 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


tion.  It  may  not  be  just  suitable,  but 
I  will  tell  it  anyhow: 

A  negro  had  a  mule  which  balked, 
and  he  could  not  get  it  to  move;  ,so  he 
went  into  a  drug  store  and  asked  the 
druggist  if  he  had  anything  that  he 
thought  would  start  the  mule.  The 
druggist  came  out  and  injected  some- 
thing in  the  region  of  the  ribs  of  the 
mule,  and  immediately  thereafter  the 
negro  saw  a  streak  of  dust  and  the  ani- 
mal flying  over  the  hill.  He  went  back 
to  the  druggist  and  said,  "How  much  is 
it?  "Twenty-five  cents."  "Well,"  said 
he,  Just  put  fifty  cents  worth  in  me.  so 
I  can  catch  the  mule."  (Laughter.) 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

In  his  opening  remarks  this  morning, 
President  Smith  stated  what  it  was 
[that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  stood  for.  It  was 
for  virtue,  for  honesty,  for  all  that  is 
good  and  holy  and  right.  It  was  this 
idea  that  inspired  the  Apostle  James 
when  he  said,  "Pure  religion  and  unde- 
filed  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this, 
To  visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in 
their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world."  It  was  no 
doubt  the  same  thought  that  inspired 
the  words  that  "faith  without  works  *s 
dead." 

In  looking  over  this  great  congrega- 
tion and  seeing  so  many  of  our  Father's 
children,  my  mind  is  led  to  contemplate 
the  great  human  family;  not  only  those 
who  dwell  upon  the  earth  today,  but  ail 
who  have  ever  trod  this  planet.  When 
our  first  parents  came  to  this  earth 
they  partook  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of 
knowledge,  and  thereby  .learned  to 
■  discriminate  between  good  and  evil. 
From  that  day  until  the  present,  all 
mankind  have  come  in  contact  with 
the  good  and  with  the  evil.  Every 
man  and  woman  will  appreciate  what  I 
say  when  I  call  attention  to  the  fact 
that  this  warfare  between  good  and  evil 
is  known  to  every  one  of  them.  It  is 
a  battle  that  we  all  must  fight.  With 
that  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  we  are 
also  in  possession  of  what  is  known  as 


free  agency.  We  can  choose  the  good 
and  reject  th*  evil,  or  we  can  choose 
the  evil  and  reject  the  good.  But  to  ev- 
ery one  of  us  will  come  the  momentous 
queeLion,  Which  shall  we  choose?  and 
Me  shall  be  called  upon  to  decide.  So 
that  when  the  statement  is  made  lhat 
the  Chirch  of  Christ  stands  for  the 
good,  it  seems  to  me  that  that  describes 
ou:  religion  The  purpose  of  our  Fath- 
er in  heaven  in  revealing  the  Gospel  of 
Je.v.i.s  Cbiist  was  that  He  m\%hi  con- 
vert the  ieople  of  the  world  to  eschew 
evil  pnd  to  follow  the  good.  It  vras  that 
we  migi  t  be  cleansed  and  puri'.ied  from 
the  evil  with  which  we  all  come  in  con- 
tact. Sin  is  in  the  world,  and  hu- 
manity to  some  extent  has  partaken  of 
it.  Therefore  it  became  necessary  that 
a  plan  should  be  devised  whereby  we 
might  be  redeemed  and  saved  from  the 
consequences  of  sin.  The  two  influ- 
ences mentioned  are  abroad  in  the  land. 
One  is  striving  with  the  children  of 
men  to  save  their  souls.  It  is  the  Spir- 
it of  the  Lord,  that  divine  essence 
which  issues  forth  from  the  Father  and 
the  Son,  and  is  within  the  reach  of  ev- 
ery one  of  us.  If  we  harken  to  that 
"still  small  voice"  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
'it  will  lead  us  in  the  way  of  good. 
It  will  help  us  to  fight  the  batles  of  life, 
and  finally  lead  us  to  salvation.  It 
will  result  in  making  us  good  men  and 
women,  and  prompt  us  to  do  good  to  all. 
It  will  make  itself  manifest  in  noble 
deeds,  in  righteous  lives ;  it  will  elevate 
us,  and  fit  and  qualify  us  to  be  indeed 
the  children  of  God.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  we  hearken  to  the  evil  one.it  will 
lead  us  downward.  It  will  result  in  the 
doing  of  evil  deeds;  will  lead  us  down 
to  degradation,  and  destroy  our  souls. 

I  do  not  need  to  advance  any  argu- 
ment in  proof  of  this.  It  is  something 
that  might  be  called  an  axiom.  It  is  a 
self-evident  truth,  and  is  known  to  all 
mankind.  The  grand  purpose  then  is 
that  we  might  be  cleansed  from  sin. 
Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  we 
first  principle  of  life  and  salvation.  The 
Gospel  has  been  revealed  to  mankind 
in  order  to  enable  us  to  resist  the  pow- 
ers of  evil.   It  has  been  called  the  pow- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


21 


er  of  God  unto  salvation.  A  plan  of 
redemption  was  necessary.  There  are 
many  people  who  say,  "Oh,  if  I  lead  a 
moral,  upright  life,  that  is  all  that  is 
necessary."  Supposing-  we  grant  that 
for  the  sake  of  the  argument,  the  all- 
important  thing  is  that  we  shall  be 
cleansed.  It  is,  however,  impossible  for 
us  to  please  God  unless  we  believe  that 
He  is,  and  that  He  is  a  rewarder  of 
them  that  diligently  seek  Him.  If  our 
lives  are  going  to  result  in  righteous 
deeds,  it  will  be  because  we  seek  after 
the  Lord;  in  other  words,  seek  after 
that  good  influence  He  sends  abroad: 
there  is  no  other  way  to  pursue  in  order 
to  be  influenced  for  right.  The  moment 
we  reject  that  power  and  influence  we 
are  on  the  other  side  and  listening  to 
the  evil  one,  who  is  seeking  to  destroy 
the  souls  of  the  children  of  men.  There^ 
fore,  faith  is  necessary  for  our  salva- 
tion. Faith  is  necessary  for  the  cleans- 
ing of  mankind  from  sin.  There  would 
be  no  motive  power,  nothing  to  impel 
us  to  righteousness,  without  faith  in 
God.  There  would  be  nothing  to  cause, 
.us  to  fight  the  evil,  if  it  were  not  for 
faith  in  God.  That  very  faith  will  lead 
us  to  turn  from  evil.  If  we  have  faith 
in  Him,  we  must  believe  that  He  is 
good;  and  if  we  would  please  Him  and 
cleanse  ourselves,  we  also  must  bt- 
good.  And  that  implies  an  abandon- 
ing, a  forsaking,  a  turning  away  from 
sin. 

Repentance  is  a  law  that  has  been  re- 
vealed for  the  salvation  of  mankind, 
and  without  that  there  is  no  salvation. 
No  man  can  be  cleansed  from  sin  un- 
less he  repents  and  turns  from  sin. 
That  is  a  self  evident  truth.  It  is  also 
true  that  in  order  to  be  truly  clean 
we  must  atone  in  some  way  or  make 
good  for  the  past.  And  what  can  man- 
kind do  for  that?  Her*  we  stand  in 
the  position  of  utter  helplessness.  What 
man  can  forgive  himself?  What  man 
can  obtain  salvation  or  be  cleansed 
from  sin,  if  perchance  he  has  been  guil- 
ty all  his  life  of  that  which  is  sinful  in 
the  sight  of  God?  Man  is  totally  help- 
less. And  we  ought  to  conceive  the  fact 
that  forgiveness  is  essential  to  our  sal- 


vation, yet  man  in  and  of  himself  can- 
not obtain  that  forgiveness.    We  may 
repent  of  our  evil  ways  and  turn  unto 
the  Lord;  we  may  have  faith  in  Him; 
but  there  still  remains  something  that 
we  are  powerless  to  overcome— the  re- 
sponsibility for  the  evil  that  we  have 
done.  This  can  only  come  by  that  pow- 
er from  on  high.    Some  people  have 
thought  there  was  a  conflict  between 
the  Apostle  James   and   the  Apostle 
Paul,  but  I  do  not  regard  it  as  any 
conflict.    James  said  that  faith  with- 
out works  was  dead,  while  Paul  wrote 
that  by  grace  we  are  saved,  and  that 
not  of  ourselves,  not  of  works,  lest  any 
man  should  boast.    My  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  grace  of  God  is  necessary 
for  your  salvation  and  for  the  cleans- 
ing from  sin  which  we  all  need.  He 
so  loved  the  world  that  He  sent  His 
Only   Begotten   Son,   that  whosoever 
should  believe  on  Him  should  not  pei- 
ish,   but  have   everlasting  life.  And 
forgiveness  can  come  from  Him,  and 
from  Him  alone.     Although   He  in- 
troduced an  ordinance  in  His  Church 
whereby  we  may  obtain  forgiveness, 
the  main  thing  is  that  Jesus  came  and 
His  blood  was  spilt  that  we  might  be 
forgiven     of   our   transgressions,  and 
thereby  be  cleansed.    We  are  told  that 
if  we  walk  in  the  light  as  He  is  in  the 
light,  then  shall  we  have  fellowship  one 
with  another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ   will  cleanse   us   from  all  sin. 
Without  that  there  would  be  no  cleans- 
ing.   And  the  way  that  can  be  done 
must  be  by  our  Father    in  heaven, 
through  His  divine  authority.    It  can 
only  be  accomplished  by  Him  personal- 
ly ministering  unto  us,  or  by  some  of 
His  constituted   authority    upon  the 
earth,  having  the  right  to  officiate  in 
His  nartie,  and  thereby  bring  unto  us 
remission  of  sins   so  that  we  may  be 
cleansed  every  whit,  and  that  our  bod- 
ies may  be  made  fit  for  the  reception 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  be  conferred  by 
that  same  authority,  through  the  laying 
on  of  hands. 

That,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  pray  that 
we  may  all  appreciate  it  and  live  in 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


accordance  with  its  principles,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing, 

Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah, 
Saints  unto  the  promised  land; 


"We  are  weak,  but  thou  art  able, 
Hold  us  with  thy  prowerful  hand! 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der Andrew  Jenson,  and  conference 
was  adjourned  to  Saturday  morning, 
at  10  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Saturday,  April  7,  10  a.  m. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent 
word! 

What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  he 

hath  said — 
fou  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 

fled? 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  C.  F. 

Middleton. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  beginning, 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 

By  prophets  long  foretold, 
When  with  harmonious  lay 
The  sheep  of  Israel's  fold 
On  Zion's  hill  his  praise  proclaim, 
And  shout  hosanna  to  his  name. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  affords 
me  very  great  pleasure  to  meet  with 
you  in  this  conference,  to  see  the  vast 
number  present,  and  to  feel  the  goodly 
influence  which  prevails.  In  standing 
before  you  this  morning  I  may  refer  to. 
the  missionary  laboij  of  the  Church. 
At  the  present  time  a  large  number 
of  Elders  are  being  called  for  this  im- 
portant work,  and  I  may  say  that  in  all 
my  lengthy  experience  I  have  never 
known  the  call  for  missionaries  to  be 
answered  so  willinglv  and  so  readily 
as  is  the  present  one.  I  presume  at 
least  one  hundred  and  fifty  mission- 
aries will  leave  our  borders  during  this 
month,  and  in  the  months  immediately 
following  the  number  will  be  almost 
as  large,  and  names  from  the  Presi- 
dents of  Stakes  and  Bishops  still  con- 
tinue to  reach  the  President's  office. 
I  believe  I  am  justified  in  saying  that 
the  brethren  whose  names  have  been 


suggested  show  better  preparation  for 
that  labor  than  I  have  ever  known. 
There  is.  however,  one  thing  that  dis- 
heartens me.  just  a  little,  that  is,  the 
number  of  young  men  called  who  ad- 
mit that  they  have  not  been  keeping 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  While  they  say 
they  will  have  no  difficult"  hereafter 
in  observing  this  law  of  God,  they 
acknowledge  that  in  the  past  they 
have  not  done  so.  This  is  regretable, 
because  it  shows  the  Lrndfncy  there  is 
among  us  to  neglect  1  hose  require- 
ments of  the  Lord  which  entail  a  daily 
sacrifice  of  our  personal  desires.  We 
often  express  a  willingness  to  lay  our 
all  upon  the  altar  of  sacrifice,  and  at 
the  same  time  these  matters  which  in 
the  minds  of  some  appear  to  be  of 
minor  importance  are  forgolten  or 
slighted;  they  are  not  considered  of 
sufficient  importance  for  us  to  live  up 
to  every  day  of  our  lives.  I  know  that 
in  our  hearts  we  are  readv  to  meet  the 
requirements  that  the  Lord  makes  of 
us.  Some  of  the  answers  received  by 
the  First  Presidency  are  quite  pathetic. 
The  writers,  though  expressing  the 
difficulties  by  which  they  are  envi- 
roned, say  they  will  be  ready,  and  that 
they  will  report  at  the  time  mentioned 
to  fulfill  the  requirement  of  the  Lord, 
whatever  may  be  the  circumstances 
under  which  they  are  placed.  No 
doubt,  our  Church  schools  have 
had  considerable  influence  in  bringing 
about  this  result,  and  the  missionary 
classes  established  in  our  academies 
are  no  small  factor  in  increasing  the 
desire  of  the  brethren  to  perform  mis- 
sionary labor,  and  in.  preparing  them 
therefor.  We  have  had  quite  a  large 
attendance  at  the  missionary  classes 
in  the  districts  that  are  remote  from 
headquarters,  but  for  some  reason,  this 
year,  the  Church  schools  nearest  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  have  not  had  the  fulll 
attendance  in  the  missionary  classes 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  they  have  had  in  former  years. 
The  schools  in  the  north — in  Rexburg, 
in  Preston,  and  other  places,  have  had 
large  classes  of  missionary  students. 
The  effect    of  these  classes    is  quite 
pronounced  and  has  much  to  do  with 
the  present  ready  responses    to  mis- 
sionary calls.  You  are  aware  no  doubt, 
from    reports    that   have   been  made 
by  the  presidents  of  missions  at  the 
last  few  conferences,  that    they  have 
not  been  supplied  with  the  number  of 
men  they  desired.    They  could  not  in- 
deed answer  all  the  calls  that  were 
made  upon  them  by  strangers.nor  even 
visit  all  the  members  of  the  Church  in 
their   missions  as  frequently  as  was 
desirable,  and    the    consequence  has 
been  that  some  have  fallen  into  the 
background  through  the  want  of  that 
attention   which   is   necessary   in  all 
places   where   our   people   are  estab- 
lished.    I  am  hopeful  that  this  diffi- 
culty will  be  remedied  and  that  the 
arrival  of  so  many  new  brethren  will 
also  increase  the  vitality  and  develop 
the  labors  of  the  brethren  in  these  var- 
ious missions. 

Referring  to  a  cause  nearly  akin  to 
the  missionary  work,  that  of  the  Sun- 
day schools,  I  desire  to  say    a  few 
words.    President  Smith  asked  me  if  I 
did  not  think  the  Sabbath  schools  were 
in  a  better  condition  today  than  they 
had  ever  been,  and  I  answered  him  to 
the  effect  that  I  so  believed-  that  I  had 
never  known  the  time  when  taken  all 
in  all,  the  schools  were  doing  better 
work  than  they  are  now.    Our  schools 
are  increasing  in  number;  and  that  in 
regard  to  punctuality,  the  good  order 
maintained,  and  the  methods  adopted 
for  instructing  the  children  I  believe 
we  are  growing  and    growing    in  the 
right    direction,    each    year.  Above 
all,     I     believe    that     the  children 
in  the  schools  are  obtaining  a  better 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  and  that  they 
are  not  losing  in  the  spirit  and  faith  of 
the  principles  of  eternal  life.     I  have 
always  regarded,  and  do  today,  that 
the  first  thing  most  important  in  con- 
nection with  our  Sunday  schools,  and 
indeed  with  all  the  other  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church,  is  to  make 


Latter-day  Saints  of  our  children,  to 
develop  within  them  a  faith  that  shall 
grow  with  increasing  years,  an  under- 
standing faith,  a  faith  that,  while  it 
appeals  to  the  heart,  will  also  appeal 
to  the  head,  and  be  able  to  give  a  rea- 
son for  the  hope  that  is  within;  not 
a  blind  obedience,  as  it  is  sometimes 
called,    but   a    comprehensive  under- 
standing of  the  revelations  of  God  and 
the  work  that  He  is  performing  in  this 
generation  i  Mans*-  of  our  children  are 
wonderfully    blest    in    this  direction. 
They  have  a  strong  and  abiding  faith. 
God  has,  by  His  Holy  Spirit,  given  it 
to  them.      They  also  have  an  under- 
standing of  the  history  of  the  Church 
and  the  reasons  for  the  faith  that  they 
possess,   and   are  able   to   talk   in  a 
sensible  manner  in  regard  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Church.     They  are  able 
to  tell  why  God  has  revealed  His  mind 
and  will  in  these  days,  and  why  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  being  built  up,  and 
the   reason   of   the   opposition  which 
Satan  and  those  under  his  control  upon 
the  earth  are  using  to  overthrow  this 
work.     Many  of  them  also  realize  that 
the  resons  given  by  our  opponents  for 
their  opposition  to  the  work  of  God 
in  which  we  are  engaged  are  not  the 
real  reasons.     They  realize  the  reason 
is  that  in  our  midst  is  to  be  found  the 
Priesthood  of  the  true  and  living  God. 
It  is  that  which  the  emissaries  of  Satan 
are  fighting,  it  is  that  which  they  fear, 
because  they  know  as  long  as  God's 
Priesthood  is  organized  upon  the  earth 
the  purposes  of  the  evil  one  cannot  be 
accomplished,   nor  can   they  continue 
unreproved  in  the  lives  that  so  many 
of  them  are  inclined  to  lead.     As  was 
said   by   President   Smith  yesterday, 
the  Gospel  stands  for  righteousness,  for 
purity,  for  truth,  for  everything  that 
is  good  and  desirable,  and  within  the 
pale  of  the  Church  is  to  be  found  every- 
thing necessary  for  the  happiness  of 
man  here  upon  the  earth,  and  for  his 
eternal  salvation  hereafter.     There  is 
no  need  of  Latter-day  Saints  going  out- 
side of  the  Church  for  any  good  thing, 
for  it  can  all  be  found  in  that  which 
God  has  given  to  us.     His  plan  is  per- 
fect and  embraces  all  things  that  men 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


25 


should  desire  to  receive  and  attain  to; 
and  when  men  go  outside  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  for  anything  that  they 
believe  will  benefit  them,  it  shows  that 
they  have  a  narrow,  a  limited  and  a 
contracted  idea  of  the  Gospel,  and  do 
not  rightly  understand  its  principles 
nor  its  efficacy  for  salvation  day  by 
day  and  forever.  We  were  told  many, 
many  years  ago  by  President  Young, 
that  outside  of  the  Gospel  there  were 
but  three  things— death,  hell  and  the 
grave.  None  of  us  want  either  of 
those  things.  We  desire  to  live,  and  to 
live  forever,  with  the  gift  of  eternal 
lives  granted  unto  us.  Our  desires 
are  to  so  live  in  this  probation,  that 
when  that  which  is  perfect  is  come  we 
shall  inherit  it,  and  we  shall  eventually 
become,  through  the  atonement  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  like  unto  Him.  As 
Christ  said,  "Be  ye  perfect,  even  as  I 
and  my  Father  in  heaven  are  perfect." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not 
think  that  my  voice  is  adapted  to  this 
Tabernacle;  possibly  many  of  you  can- 
not hear  me;  so  I  will  not  occupy  your 
time  any  longer,  but  pray  God  to  bless 
you,  and  to  bless  all  that  is  done  and 
said  at  this  conference;  and  may  much 
good  and  unity  in  the  midst  of  the 
Saints  result  from  our  coming  together 
at  this  time.  I  ask  it  through  Jesus 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
during  the  few  moments  I  stand  before 
you  I  may  be  blessed  with  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  and  speak  such  words  to  this 
congregation  as  the  Lord  would  have 
me  speak.  I  have  rejoiced  very  greatly 
in  the  instructions  imparted  •  by  the 
brethren  during  this  conference,  and 
I  feel  in  my  soul  that  those  who  have 
stood  before  us  arid  borne  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  the  great  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged,  have  been  directed 
in  their  words  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
As  a  people,  we  are  very  strong  be- 
lievers in  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  that  man  is  not  able  of 
himself,  by  the  wisdom  which  he  pos- 
sesses naturally,  to  instruct  'he  people 
concerning  the  purposes  of  the  Lord. 


That  instruction  can  only  be  given  to 
the  convincing  of  the  people,  and  to 
the  building  up  of  the  faith  and  knowl- 
edge of  the  Saints,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.      In  listening  to  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made  by  Elder 
•George  Reynolds,  in  relation  to  the  mis- 
sionaries.some  thoughts  passed  through 
my  mind  concerning  them.      It  falls 
to -my  lot  in  connection  with  my  breth- 
ren to  meet  companies  of  missionaries 
very  frequently  in  the  annex  of  the 
Salt   Lake  Temple,   where    they  are 
usually  set  apart  for  their  missionary 
labors,  and  I  have  observed,  as  others 
of  the  brethren  have,  that  nearly  all 
the  Elders  that  go  into  the  world  to 
preach  the  Gospel  are  young  men,  and 
very  largely  men  without  missionary 
experience— young  men  who  are  going 
out  from  their  homes  for  the  first  time 
to  exercise  the  authority  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  in  calling  men  to  repent- 
ance.    I  have  often  felt  that  it  would 
be  a  very  great  advantage  to  mission- 
ary work  throughout  the  world  if  the 
brethren   who   are    called   upon  from 
time  to  time  to  suggest  missionaries 
could  mix  up  with  these  young  men, 
who  labor  so  zealously  and  faithfully  in 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  a  few  men 
who  have  already  had  missionary  ex- 
perience. 

Since    the    commencement    of  this 
work  there  have  been  thousands  of 
men  who  have  operated  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth  in  the  labors  of  the  min- 
istry, and  today,  in  the  communities 
of  the  Later-day  Saints,   there  are  a 
large  number  of  men  who  in  years  gone 
by    have   labored     successfully  and 
through  experience  have  become  com- 
petent in  missionary  work.     I  fear  that 
when  the  brethren  look  for  mission- 
aries, they  feel  that  men  who  have  al- 
ready been  abroad  should  not  be  again 
appointed  to  these  labors,  if  there  are 
other  men  who  have  not  had  this  oppor- 
tunity.    But  I  believe  it  would  be  a 
very  great   advantage  to   the  young 
men,  and  a  help  to  the  mission  presi- 
dents, and  a  benefit  to  the  people  of 
the  world,  if  the  young  men  could  be 
blessed   with   the   companionship  and 
assistance  of  some  of  the  brethren  who 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE, 


have  formerly  had  missionary  experi- 
ence.     Therefore,   I   suggest  to  the 
Stake  Presidents  and  Bishops  that  it 
would  be  a  proper  thing  to  seek  for 
some   experienced     missionaries,  that 
those  who  are  without  experience  may 
have  the  advantage  of  their  compan- 
ionship, that  they  may  receive  the  en- 
couragement and  strength  which  would 
naturally  come  from  the  help  of  those 
who  are  well  established  in  the  faith 
of  the  Everlasting  Gospel.     During  the 
past  twenty-five  years  a  great  change 
has  taken  place  with  our  missionaries 
so  far  as  the  age  of  the  men  who  are 
sent  to  preach  the  Gospel  is  concerned. 
I  remember  that  during  my  first  mission 
nearly  all  of  my  companions  were  men 
of  experience,  and  I  suppose  that  was 
the  condition  of  all  the  missions.  It 
was  the  condition,  as  far  as  I  was  ac- 
quainted,   with     all     the  conferences 
throughout  Great  Britain.     Here  and 
there  a  few  young  men  were  operating 
as  missionaries,  but  the  great  bulk  of 
the  Elders  were  men  who  had  had  ex- 
perience, who  had  been  well  trained  in 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  who 
were  established  firmly  in  the  faith. 
I  look  back  today  and  thank  the  Lord 
that  it  fell  to  my  lot  to  have  compan- 
ionship of  that  character,  to  be  associ- 
ated   with     men     who     related  to 
me      circumstances       in  connection 
with   their     experience    in   the  work 
of     the      Lord      that      tended  to 
strengthen  my  faith,     and    to  give 
me  courage,  and  hope.    There  is  abun- 
dant room  today  for  this  class  of  mis- 
sionaries.  At  the  present  time  they  are 
nearly  all  boys  in  years;  there  is  only 
now  and  then  a  man  who  has  had  the 
experience  to  which  I  have  referred. 
Notwithstanding   this,  however,  these 
young  men  possess  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood;  they  have  gone  out 
by  the  appointment  of  our  Father  in 
heaven,  through  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  it  is  a  wonderful  work 
that  has  been  accomplished.   It  will  be 

wonderful  in  the  future;  for,  as  in  the 

past,  God  will  take  the  weak  things  of 

the  world  to  confound  the  things  that 

are  great  and  mighty.   I  am,  however, 


firmly  convinced  that  if  an  experienced' 
and  accomplished  missionary,  could  go- 
out  with  every  half  dozen  young  men. 
great  good  would  flow  from  such  a  com- 
bination, both  to  the  youthful  mission- 
aries and  to  the  work  of  the  Lord 
abroad. 

One    of    the    brethren  yesterday 
in  his  remarks  intimated  that  he  waj 
glad  that  "Mormonism"  had  not  been 
established  as  a  result  of  any  disagree- 
ment among  men  concerning  any  other 
principle  of  revealed  religion.    It  was- 
established  by  divine  appointment  and 
revelation.  When  the  brother  made  the 
remark  to  which  I  refer  I  remembered 
a  few  years  ago,  in  visiting  a  great 
Catholic  church  in  the  Old  World,  pick- 
ing up  a  tract  written  by  a  Catholic, 
and  the  .statement  upon  the  cover  was- 
'Why  I  Am  a  Catholic."    In  that  lit- 
tle tract  there  was  a  paragraph  which 
read  somewhat  to  this  effect:  "When 
Martin  Luther,  and  Calvin,  and  Henry 
VIII  commenced  their  mad  career  in 
what  you  Protestants  term  the  'glori- 
ous reformation,'  the  true  religion  was- 
then  in  the  world,  or  it  was  not.  If 
it  was,  they  committed  grievous  crimes- 
in  making  new  religions  to  oppose  it. 
If  it  was  not,  they  were  powerless  to 
create  it.     It  takes  a  Christ,  not  a. 
Luther,  to  create  a  Christianity,  on 
either   supposition  therefore,  Protest- 
antism is  not  the  true  religion  of  Jesus 
Christ."    I  was  greatly  impressed  with 
the  reading  of  these  words.  It  certainly 
takes  an  immortal  being,  it  takes  the 
very  source  of  religion,  to  create  re- 
ligion.  No  man,  or  combination  of  men, 
have  the  intelligence  or  authority  to 
create  that  Gospel  which  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.   I  thought  how 
glorious  is  the  foundation  upon  which 
"Mormonism"  is  built;  and  well  might 
we   sing,  as   we  have  this  morning.. 
"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  saints  of 
the  Lord,  is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His 
excellent  word."    No  division,  conten- 
tion, or  quarreling  brought  into  exist- 
ence the  glorious  principles  we  have 
espoused.  Joseph  Smith  approached  our 
Father  in  heaven  for  information  con- 
cerning his  soul's  salvation,  and  I  have 
never  come  in  contact  with  any  person 


PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 


27" 


opposed  to  "Mormonism"  who  could 
find  any  fault  with  the  statement  that 
Joseph  Smith  approached  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  pleaded  with  him  for  infor- 
mation concerning  the  Gospel  •  of  His 
Son.  What  better  source  could  he  have 
gone  to  than  the  source  of  light?  When 
he  could  not  decide  for  himself  where  to 
go  to  find  rest  for  his  soul  and  the 
means  of  salvation,  what  greater  pow- 
er could  he  approach  than  his  Father 
in  heaven?  In  doing  30  he  was  in  strict 
accord  with  the  commandment  of  that 
Father,  and  in  harmony  also  with  the 
teachings  of  inspired  prophets  and 
apostles.  Joseph  Smith  went  to  the 
only  source  that  could  lead  him  in  the 
right  path.  If  the  truth  was  not  upon 
the  earth  he  approached  the  only  power 
that  could  reveal  and  restore  that  glor- 
ious truth.  That  is  the  foundation 
upon  which  "Mormonism"  rests — the 
foundation  of  the  appearing  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith.  We  need  no  better  foun- 
dation. We  need  look  to  no  other 
source  of  power  for  the  means  of  salva- 
tion. And  this  marvelous  revelation  to 
which  Joseph  Smith  bears  record,  and 
to  which  we  bear  record,  has  come  in 
fulfillment  of  the  promises  made 
through  the  mouths  of  all  the  proph- 
ets, and  through  the  promise  of  the  Re- 
deemer Himself,  for  He  predicted  that 
before  His  second  coming  the  same 
Gospel  should  again  be  proclaimed  as  a 
sign  of  that  event.  My  brethren  ana 
sisters,  this  Gospel  has  not  come  to  us 
in  the  enticing  words  of  man's  wisdom, 
but  in  the  power  and  demonstration  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  We  have  not  been 
persuaded  by  the  logic  of  man  to  re- 
ceive the  truth,  but  we  have  been  per- 
suaded by  the  convincing  power  of  the 
Holy  iSpirit.  No  wonder  men  do  not 
succeed  who  proselyte  in  our  midst. 
We  cannot  be  turned  from  the  wheat  of 
the  word  of  God,  to  the  chaff  that 
comes  from  the  wisdom  of  man.  We 
have  received  that  form  of  doctrine 
which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion, as  taught  by  the  Redeemer,  and 
we  can  be  assured  and  happy  in  the 
knowledge  that  we  have  set  our  hands 


to  the  plow,  and    that    we   have  laid 
hold  of  the  "iron  rod!"  We  need  not  be 
moved  by  the  clamor  of  those  who  op- 
pose the  truth,  but  we  can  feel  that  we- 
have  received  that  which  the  Lord  in- 
tended us  to  have,  and  that  we  are  in 
the  same  position  as  the  apostles  of" 
old  when  the  Savior  asked  them,  after 
a  number  had  forsaken  him,  "Will  ye- 
also  forsake  me?"    Their  answer  was 
"Where  shall  we  go,  for  Thou  hast 
the  words  of  eternal  life?"   Where  can. 
we  go  to  find  peace,  and  comfort,  and 
hope,  if  we  turn  from  the  truth?  No- 
where.    Think  of  it,  and  be  faithful 
and  true  to  that  which  we  have  es- 
poused.   I  joyfully  bear  my  testimony, 
in  connection  with  my  brethren,  to  the- 
truth  of  this  marvelous  work.    It  is- 
the  power  of  God.   It  is  not  a  delusion, 
it  is  not  a  myth.    It  is  the  work  fore- 
told by  the  Prophets,  and  it  will  pre- 
vail.   God  help  us  to  do  our  part  and 
to  be  true,  steadfast,  loyal  and  faith- 
ful to  His  work,  and  to  our  convenants 
with  our  Father  in  heaven  and  with- 
each  other,  is    my     prayer     through » 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen; 


PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 

Reminiscence  of  missionary  call  and  ex- 
perience.—Necessity  for  preparation  to 
go  on  missions. — Good  and  evil  monitors 
always  present.— Learn  to  distinguish 
influences,  and  follow  the  good. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  truly- 
a  surprise  to  me  to  be  called  to  addresb 
you  on  this  occasion,  but  I  have  lis- 
tened attentively  to  that  which  we  have- 
heard  so  far  during  this  Conference, 
and  can  bear  you  my  testimony  that 
what  has  been  said  has  been  true  and' 
guided  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy- 
Spirit.    While  Brother  McMurrin  was 
speaking  in  regard  to  missionaries,  my 
mind  reverted  to  the  time  when  I  was- 
called  on  a  mission.  I  had  been  in  poor 
health  for  about  a  year,  and  was  called 
to  go  to  Scandinavia.   My  financial  cir- 
cun.istances  were  very  low,  I  had  no- 
means  with  which  to  purchase  trans- 
portation, etc.,  and  there  was  no  rail- 
road here  at  that  time  to  travel  on,. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


so  I  saddled  my  horse,  mounted  it,  and 
started  on  my  mission  to  Scandinavia 
w  ill) out  purse  or  scrip.  On  the  road  I 
fold  my  horse  for  a  little  money,  and  I 
met  some  friends  who  further  assisted 
m?.  I  left  here  on  the  seventeenth  of 
May  and  arrived  in  Copenhagen  on  the 
twelfth  of  September,  safe  and  sound. 

But  that  is  not  the  point  exactly 
which  occurred  to  my  mind.  Speaking 
of  the  young  Elders  who  are  called  up- 
on missions,  L  desire  to  say  that  it  is 
necessary  for  them  to  inform  their 
minds  while  at  home.  They  should  at- 
tend the  Mutual  Improvement  Asso. 
ciations,  study  the  Scriptures  and  the 
Church  works,  that  they  may  be  pre- 
pared for  missionary  labor  when  they 
go  to  their  fields.  On  my  arrival  I  be- 
gan to  think,  What  are  you  here  for? 
Why  have  you  left  your  home  and 
traveled  this  distance?  The  answer 
cf.me  to  me,  To  preach  the  Gospel  and 

lighten  those  who  are  in  darkness, 
to  assist  in  gathering  scattered  Israel, 
and  the  honest  in  heart  from  among  the 
wicked.  The  next  question  I  asked 
myself  was,  What  will  you  say  to 
them?  What  are  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel?  In  less  than  an  hour  I  had 
asked  myself  a  hundred  questions  and 
could  not  answer  one  of  them.  So  I 
began  to  study.  Once  in  a  while  I 
turned  to  the  man  who  was  presiding, 
and  asked  him  certain  questions,  which 
he  answered  without  hesitation.  Says 
I,  "Is  that  the  correct  answer  to  thai 
question?"  "Yes,"  said  he.  Well,  1 
knew  it  as  well  as  he  did,  when  I  came 
to  think  of  it.  A  great  many  of  our 
missionaries  are  not  entirely  ignoranv 
of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  but  they 
do  not  give  them  proper  thought.  They 
do  nqt  study  the  different  questions 
and  the  proper  answers,  in  order  that 
they  may  be  pepared  to  meet  the  oppo- 
sition of  the  world  and  speak  intelli- 
gently to  those  whom  they  are  called 
upon  to  address.  It  has  been  my  prac- 
tice for  years  to  advise  young  men  to 
sludy,  to  inform  their  minds,  and  be 
piepared  for  the  ministry  when  the  call 
comes. 

Often  in  my  official  duties,  when  peo- 


ple come  to  me  for  their  blessings,  es- 
pecially young  men  who  are  called  up- 
on missions,  I  admonish  them  to  learn 
to  listen  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
good  Spirit  and  be  guided  by  it;  to 
seek  the  Father  for  the  gift  of  disv 
cernment,  that  they  may  not  be  de- 
ceived by  the  evil  one,  for  we  under- 
stand that  when  we  would  do  good  evil 
is  present  with  us.  It  is  necessary 
that  we  should  learn  to  recognize  the 
whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  we 
may  understand  the  difference  between 
it  and  the  evil  one.  In  my  labors,  I 
have  often  had  the  two  spirits  to  con- 
tend with,  and  this  has  taught  me  to 
listen,  so  that  when  a  question  is  asked 
I  may,  through  prophetic  vision,  un- 
derstand the  proper  answer.  Often 
when  I  have  asked  questions  under 
these  circumstances  I  have  heard  dis- 
tinctly, it  may  be  said,  two  voices,  and 
they  are  so  near  alike  that  it  is  a  hard 
matter  to  distinguish  between  them  un- 
less you  are  acquainted  and  have  learn- 
ed to  be  guided  by  the  proper  spirit.  I 
contend  that  every  Latter-day  Saint 
has  a  Monitor  within  him,  and  if  he 
conducts  himself  in  such  a  manner  that 
he  himself  is  truly  satisfied  with  his 
labors,  then  he  may  feel  assured  the 
Lord  is  apt  to  be  satisfied.  We  can 
never  do  wrong  unless  we  are  admonish- 
ed that  it  is  wrong.  Before  we  take  a 
wrong  step  or  do  something  that  we 
should  not  do,  that  Monitor  will  chide 
us  and  will  give  us  a  chance  to  reflect 
if  we  will  accept  the  opportunity. 
There  is,  therefore,  no  reason  why  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  do  wrong, 
if  they  will  only  be  guided  by  the  whis- 
perings of  God  and  the  Spirit. 

I  don't  feel  like  talking  longer.  I 
ask  God  our  heavenly  Father  to  let 
His  blessings  rest  upon  us  all,  to  guide 
us  in  the  true  path,  to  open  the  eyes  of 
oui  understanding,  that  we  may  see 
aright,  that  we  may  comprehend  the 
will  of  the  Father,  and  have  fortitude 
to  press  forward  filling  our  missions 
and  accomplishing  the  work  assigned 
u;-?.  That  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may 
rest  upon  all  Israel,  is  my  prayer  in  th<. 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

The  leaders  in  the  Church  at  home  neces- 
sarily men  of  business,  as  well  as  coun- 
selors in  spiritual  affairs.— In  the  build- 
ing up  of  Zion,  temporal  matters  must 
receive  great  attention.— Joseph  Smith 
and  Brigham  Young  notable  examples  of 
temporal  and  spiritual  inspiration.— Z. 
C.  M.  I.  and  the  sugar  industry  tangible 
evidences  of  the  benefit  of  following  the 
advice  of  the  Church  leaders. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire,  the 
few  moments  that  I  may  occupy,  to  be 
guided  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  In  my 
remarks,  that  I  may  be  inspired  to  say 
something  that  shall   be   edifying  to 
those  who  are  present.    This  is  a  very- 
large  congregation.    We  have  repre- 
sentatives here  this  morning,  I  pre- 
sume, from  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  55 
in  number,  and  representatives  from 
many  of  the  missions  of  the  world,  of 
which  there  are  21.    We  have  repre- 
sentatives also  from  a  great  number 
of  the  600  or  700  wards  of  the  Church. 
There  are  before  us  a  good  many  of 
the  presidencies  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
and  I  would  like  to  say  a  word  in  re- 
lation to  these  leading  men.    They  are 
very  practical   men,   well  acquainted 
with  the  affairs  of  life;   men  of  ex- 
perience, and  understanding,  occupied 
in  various  avocations;  men  who  are 
called  to  be  spiritual   and  temporal 
leaders  of  the  people;  men  who  should 
be  and  no  doubt  are,  able  by  their 
experience,  to  give  counsel  and  to  di- 
rect.   Among  them  are  farmers,  stock- 
men, contractors  and  builders,  masons, 
carpenters,     blacksmiths,  merchants, 
lawyers,  educators,  literary  men — and 
all  of  them  preachers  of  the  Gospel. 
They  are  so  situated  that  they  must 
provide  for  their  families  and  educate 
their  children,  and  of  necessity  they 
have  adopted  these  various  callings, 
either  as  professional  men,  tradesmen 
or  mechanics.     This  is  all  very  well 
and  good,  and  proper,  we  think.  They 
do  not  give  their  entire  time  to  the 
Church  because  they  are  not  situated 
so  they  can.  I  presume  there  is  enough 
work  in  the  Church  to  take  their  en- 
tire time,  if  they  could  give  it,  but  they 
cannot  give  it,  and  it  may  be  that  the 
Lord  does  not  design  at  present  that 
they  should  do  so.  For  this  reason  they 


must  be  practical  men,  acquainted  with 
the  affairs  of  life  and  be  prepared  to 
give  counsel  when  it  is  sought. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is 
a  spiritual   side  to  the  Gospel,  and 
there  is  a  temporal  side,  and  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  find  a  dividing  line.    I  do  not 
know  that  there  is  any  dividing  line,  if 
so,  I  have  never  been  quite  able  to  dis- 
cover it.    I  suppose  we  may  say  firstly 
spiritual  and  secondly  temporal,  and 
then  again,  perhaps,  firstly  temporal 
and  secondly  spiritual;  for  the  last  shall 
be  first  and  the  first  shall  be  last. 
These  men,  by  their  experience,  are 
qualified  to  be  spiritual  leaders  of  the 
people,  to  expound  the  Scriptures  and 
teach  them  the  way  of  life;  and  their 
experience  also  qualifies  them  to  be 
temporal  leaders  of  the  people,  and  to 
give  them  counsel  in  matters  pertain- 
ing to  their  temporal  interests.  We 
have  colonizers  among  these  presidents 
of  stakes — men  who  can  blaze  the  way 
in  the  wilderness  and  subdue  the  soil, 
and  in  part  subdue  the  elements  also; 
who  can  build  up  the  country  and  suc- 
cessfully establish  the  Saints,  by  the 
wisdom  of  their  counsel,  in  these  new 
countries.    There  is  one  president  of  a 
stake  (I  do  not  know  but  he  reported 
the  fact  at  one  of  our  conferences) 
who  took  hold  of  a  business  enterprise 
that  was  something  like   $2  0,000  in 
debt.    It  was  given  into  the  charge  of 
this  president  of  a  stake,  this  spiritual 
leader  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  inside 
of  two  or  three  years,  by  his  wisdom, 
experience,  and  ability,  the  enterprise 
was  pulled  out  of  debt.    The  custom- 
ers were  invited  to  come  and  trade  on 
a  cash  basis;  the  counsel  went  from 
that  president  to  his  people  to  do  their 
business  on  that  line.jpay  as  they  went 
along,  and  the  result  was  as  stated.  I 
take  it,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  such 
is  a  part  of  the  Gospel,  at  least  it  seems 
so  to  me.  I  hope  every  president  of  a 
Stake,  and  Counselor,  and  High  Coun- 
cilor, are  teaching  this  doctrine  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,    and  encouraging 
them  to  get  out  of  debt  and  keep  out. 
That  is  a  part  of  the  word  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints.    This  prac- 
tical man  has  given  us  a  splendid  illus- 


-30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tration  of  this;  and  if  he  was  able,  by 
•the  skill  and  ability  which  God  had, 
given  him,  to  pull  that  business  out  of 
iits  embarrassment,  surely  he  was  in  a. 
position  to  give  counsel  to  others  in  the, 
same  direction.  This  is  only  one  case. 
These  other  Presidents  of  Stakes  who  • 
sit  before  us,  with  their  Counselors, 
are  also  leading,  practical  men.  They 
•are  not  one-sided,  not  narrow-minded, 
they  are  not  men  of  only  one  idea,  but 
they  have  comprehensive  views  of  life. 
So  it  seems  necessary,  in  the  provk 
•dence  of  God,  that  these  men  should 
engage  in  the  affairs  of  life,  and  be 
practical. 

It  is  much  the  same  with  the  mis- 
sionaries whom  we  are  sending  out 
into  the  world.  Some  of  them,  it  is  true, 

•are  very  youthful,  some  unmarried;  but 
many  of  them  are  men  of  experience 
in  temporal  as  well  as  in  spir- 
itual affairs.  Our  missionaries  are 
not  trained  theologians,  they  have 
no  diplomas  from  theological  semin- 
aries; but  they  are  picked  up  just  as 
we  find  them.  They  are  taken  from  the 
workshop,  the  store,  the  farm,  thfe. 
schoolroom,  the  office,  from  the  vari- 

•ous  avocations  of  life,  wherever  the 
Lord  selects  them,  and  they  are  sent 

-abroad  to  preach  the  Gospel.  But 
many  of  them,  perhaps  the  majority, 

-are  practical  men.  They  are  not  men- 
tally floating  around  in  the  clouds, 
away  "beyond  the  bounds  of  time  and  - 
space,"  they  are  in  the  world,  dealing 
with  worldly  things,  as  well  as  with 
spiritual  things.  It  often  happens  that 
our  missionaries  sit  down  and  expound 
the  scriptures,  and  teach  the  word  01 
eternal  life,  and  then,  if  occasion  re- 
quites, turn  from  that  exalted  employ- 
ment go  into  the  field,  take  hold  of  the 
plow  and  turn  a  furrow,  or  go  to  tht 
cfs-Tcnter's  bench  and  engage  in  build- 
ins.  This  is  often  done  by  our  mis- 
sionaries when  help  of  that  kind  is 
needed,  and  perhaps  cannot  be  obtained 
otherwise  by  those  who  are  interested 
in  the  Gospel.  In  Samoa,  on  the  Sand- 
wich Islands,  or  on  other  islands  of 
the  aea,  if  a  meeting-house  is  required 
the  missionaries  assist  in  building  it. 
When  it  is  built  and  furnished  by  the 


work  of  their  own  hands,  they  enter  tht, 
pulpit  and  preach  the  Gospel.  I  call 
that  good,  practical  religion.  It  appeals 
to  me,  and  I  admire  it.  I  am  happy 
to  know  that  our  Elders  are  not 
ashamed  of  honest  toil.  I  am  happy 
to  know  that  these  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  their  Counselors,  the  High  Coun- 
cilors, the  Bishops  of  "Wards  and  their 
Counselors  (who  are  just  as  practical 
every  whit  as  the  Presidents  of  Stakes) 
are  not  ashamedto  engage  in  honest  la- 
bor. What  would  you  think  of 
a  President  of  a  Stake  with 
his  coat  off,  clad  in  over- 
alls, following  the  plow,  turning  up  the 
soil,  cultivating  it,  and  then,  after  a 
hard  day's  toil,  going  to  a  conference, 
or  a  meeting,  and  preaching  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  to  the  people  of  his  stake? 
Would  you  not  think  it  a  commendable 
thing?  Could  he  set  a  better  example 
to  his  people  than  that?  I  think  not. 
I  rejoice  in  such  things.  This  is  Zkm, 
brethren  and  sisters;  and  Zion  is  not 
only  the  pure  in  heart,  but  it  is  a  lo- 
cation, also.  Zion  consists  of  cities, 
towns  and  villages,  containing  build- 
ings for  various  purposes;  and  event- 
ually it  will  include  the  holy  city  ana 
the  mighty  temple  of  God  which  is  to 
be  built.  Those  are  temporal  affairs. 
It  means  hard  work,  application,  devo- 
tion, sacrifice  of  means  and  time;  and 
it  will  require  the  physical  and  spirit- 
ual strength  and  power  of  the  people 
of  God.  Zion  is  to  flourish  upon  the 
nil]?,  and  it  will  be  made  to  flourish  in 
just  this  way. 

Another  thing,  brethren  and  sisters. 
(I  am  not  going  to  tell  you  something 
you  do  not  know,  I  am  simply  going 
to  remind  you  of  something  that  is 
familiar  to  you).  I  have  spoken  of 
these  leaders  in  Zion  who  stand  at 
the  head  of  stakes  and  wards,  and  who 
preside  over  the  people  in  the  church. 
I  have  been  saying  to  you  that  they 
are  practical  men  of  affairs.  Now  let 
me  say  to  you  that  the  general  author- 
ities of  the  Church  are  included  among 
those  practical  men,  and  have  been 
so  from  the  beginning.  Have  they 
been  spiritual  men?  Yes;  the  Lord 
knows  they  have  been  and  are  spirit- 


* 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


31 


-ually-minded.    Have  they  been  tem- 
poral, practical  men?    Yes;  the  Lord 
■knows,  and  you  know  they  are  and 
have  been.     You   take  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  great  prophet  of  the 
nineteenth   century.     We  have  been 
told  here,  and  it  is  true,     that  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him. 
■God  spake  to  him,  and  gave  mighty 
revelations  and   glorious  manifesta- 
tions to  the  Church  through  him;  yea 
the  divine  revelations  that  are  pub- 
lished in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  I  tell  you  we  have  not 
yet  begun  to  appreciate  their  depths.  I 
doubt  if  we   can  fully  comprehend 
them  in  mortality.    They  are  all  true, 
.•all  from  the  Lord,  and  have  been  ac- 
cepted and  adopted  by  the  Church. 
We  understand  them  in  part.  We  have 
glorious  glimpses  of  the  future  through 
these  revelations.  Was  Joseph  Smith  a 
rspiritually-minded  man?     Yes.  Was 
he  a  temporal,  practical  man?  Yes. 
^Besides  his  labors  of  a  spiritual  char- 
acter,  he   engaged   in   the  founding 
of  cities,  in  establishing  the.  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  their  homes,  advising  and 
directing  their  labors  and  movements, 
temporal   as   well   as   spiritual.  He 
founded  the  beautiful  city  of  Nauvoo, 
and  was  the  mayor  thereof.  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet,  mayor  of  the  City 
of  Nauvoo!    Yes,  and  lieutenant-gen- 
eral of  the  Nauvoo  Legion,  a  military 
man,  and  he  had  the  spirit  and  cour- 
age of  a  great  leader.    He  was  a  lead- 
er as  a  military  man,  as  a  temporal 
man,  and  as  a  spiritual  man.    He  was 
broad  and  liberal  in  his  views;  and  if 
he  had  not  been  disturbed  and  inter- 
rupted  in   his   plans,   Nauvoo  would 
have  been  one  of  the  most  glorious 
cities  ever  founded  in   this  country. 
The  people  there  are  now  anxious  to 
have  us  go  back  and  give  them  the 
benefit  of  some  of  the  practical  things, 
which  they  see  we  are  doing  in  this 
•country.     President   Brigham  Young, 
who  succeeded  Joseph  Smith,  was  a 
Practical  man.     He  was  a  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator,   and  he  was  a 
linancier  and   colonizer.     There  was 
3.  wonderful  combination  in  President 
Young's  characters    He  was  just  the 


man  suited  to  the  times,  fitted  to  the 
occasion;   was  right  on  hand  when 
God  wanted  him.   How  intensely  prac- 
tical was  Brigham  Young,  and  yet  how 
spiritually-minded!     I  do  not  know 
that  we  ever  had  a  man  in  the  Church 
who,  in  some  respects,  was  more  spirit- 
ually-minded;  certainly  no  man  was 
ever  more  practical  in  his  views  and 
counsels.    I  could  not  do  justice  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  or  to  Brigham 
Young,   if  I  stood   here  and  talked 
for  10  hours,  the  theme  is  too  big  for 
me.    But  we  know  many  of  the  things 
that  these  men  did.    One  great  prac- 
tical thing  that  President  Young  did 
was  the  establishment  of  that'  splendid 
institution  near  the  corner  here  known 
as  Z.  C.  M.  I.    He  sought  to  develop 
the  principle   of  co-operation  among 
this  people.    He  counseled  it,  directed 
it,  and  gave  his  soul  to  the  movement 
so  far  as  it  was  necessary.     He  im- 
pressed its  importance  and  advantages 
upon  the  hearts  of  the  people.  And 
what  a  terrific  struggle  Z.  M.  C.  L  had! 
It  almost  went  under  during  the  great 
panic  of  those  early  days,  and  its  stock 
went  down  to  about  35  cents  on  the 
dollar.    Where  is  it  now?    Why,  it  is 
soaring  so  high  that  it  can  scarcely  be 
obtained.     It  is  away    beyond  par. 
Erigham  Young  counseled  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  hold  their  Z.  C.  M.  I. 
stock    and    not    to    sell    it.  That 
is     what     this     practical  Prophet 
said     to     the     people,     and  those 
that   followed   his   counsel    did  well, 
because  the  stock  has  been  steadily 
advancing,  and  the  institution  is  most 
powerful  and  influential  today.    It  has 
been  able  to  steady  the  market  in  this 
country  and  to  regulate    prices.  Of 
course,  there  are  other  strong  institu- 
tions here,  not  only  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  but  among  our  friends 
in  this  city;  but  Z.  C.  M.  I.  dates  back 
into  the  early  years,  and  it  was  a  great 
movement,  in  fact,  it  was  ahead  of  the 
times.   During  the  past  year  Z.  C.  M.  I. 
did  a  business  of  about  four  and  a  half 
millions  of  dollars,  and  it  is  giving  em- 
ployment to  about  five  hundred  persons, 
and  is  paying  to  these  employes  about 
$250,000  every  year.    In  view  of  these 


32 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


facts  you  can  answer  whether  Z.  C.  M. 
I.  is  essential  to  this  country  and  peo- 
ple, whether  it  is  helpful  to  them, 
whether  it  is  worthy  of  their  sympathy 
and  support. 

A  word  in  relation  to  the  manufac- 
turing departments  of  Z.  C.  M.  I., which, 
it  seems  to  me,  are,  very  important  fac- 
tors. I  do  not  know  whether  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  fully  understand  it  or 
not,  but  it  should  be  known  that  it  is 
quite  an  extensive  feature  of  the  busi- 
ness. Last  year  something  like  80,500 
pairs  of  boots  and  shoes  were  manu- 
factured by  Z.  C.  M.  I. — a  product  of 
home  industry,  made  right  here!  Is 
not  this  a  satisfaction,  and  worthy  of 
our  attention  and  thought?  Then  there 
is  the  overall  department.  I  read  in  the 
Deseret  News  last  fall,  from  a  report 
made  at  the  Fair,  that  Z.  C.  M.  I.  had 
manufactured  soniething  lilae  216,000 
dozen  pairs  of  overalls  in  the  past 
year.  They  had  taken  the  denims,  cut 
it  up,  and  made  it  into  overalls,  giving 
employment  to  the  people,  helping  to 
sustain  their  families,  as  well  as  add- 
ing to  the  success  of  .  the  institution. 
And  this  great  principle  of  co-opera- 
tion and  home  manufacture  was  set 
forth  by  Brigham  Young;  but  that  is 
only  one  instance  of  his  practical  work 
and  teaching. 

Those  who  have  succeeded  President 
Young  have  also  been  practical  men. 
Brother  John  Taylor,  in  an  early  day, 
under  the  direction  of  President  Young, 
brought  sugar  manufacturing  machin- 
ery from  France,  and  an  effort  was 
made  to  establish  the  sugar  industry  in 
this  country.  But  the  machinery  then 
was  very  imperfect  and  could  not  be 
used  to  advantage.  Thousands  of  dol- 
lars were  expended  in  its  purchase  and 
to  bring  it  across  the  water  and  the 
plains  in  order,  if  possible,  to  estab- 
lish the  sugar  industry  here.  That  is 
a  temporal  matter.  Would  you  call  it 
commercialism?  Whatever  you  call  it, 
I  know  it  is  a  glorious  thing,  and  very 
practical.  The  motive  was  to  benefit 
and  bless  the  people,  and  put  them  on 
a  self-sustaining,  self-supporting  basis, 
so  that  this  would  indeed  be  Zion  to 
them.    But  this  question  of  manufac- 


turing sugar  did  not  end  with  the  ef- 
forts of  President  Young  and  President 
John  Taylor.  It  was  too  important,  it 
could  not  rest,  so  it  comes  up  again, 
like  Banquo's  ghost.  Like  the  Phoenix, 
it  has  arisen  from  the  ashes  of  the 
past,  and  has  become  a  settled  indus- 
try. But  few  among  this  great  congre- 
gation know  the  effort  it  cost  to  estab- 
lish these  sugar  factories  in  the  land. 
Many  sleepless  nights  were  given  to 
consideration  of  this  subject  by  Pres- 
idents Woodruff,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  This  question  of 
manufacturing  sugar  rested  upon  them 
tremendously.  It  was  like  an  inspira- 
tion, they  could  not  get  away  from  it. 
They  called  the  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  their  Counselors  together  (I  re- 
member it  very  well)  and  appealed  to 
them,  and  through  them  to  the  Church, 
to  give  this  enterprise  heartfelt  sup- 
port and  approval.  And  when  it  seem- 
ed that  it  must  be  abandoned  circum- 
stances being  such  that  it  looked  as  if 
the  enterprise  would  fail,  and  the 
Church  being  involved  so  that  it  could 
not  altogether  render  the  help  needed, 
a  few  of  the  leading  brethren  would 
not  relinquish  it,  and  the  President 
of  the  Church  said  it  must  not  fail. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  know  the 
result,  you  know  in  general  the  status 
of  this  great  industry.  I  could  not 
speak  in  detail  of  all  the  su- 
gar factories,  for  they  are 
multiplying  on  every  hand;  but  I  will 
speak  of  the  Utah  Sugar  Company,  be- 
cause that  is  the  pioneer  company  in 
Utah,  and  it  includes  the  factories  at 
Lehi  and  at  Garland.  Let  me  tell  you 
something  of  what  they  did  last  year. 
They  manufactured  something  like 
thirty  million  pounds  of  sugar,  from 
sugar  beets  grown  upon  our  soil.  These 
beets  were  not  imported  from  distant 
countries,  they  were  grown  here  by  our 
farmers.  What  a  tremendous  power 
that  is  for  good  in  the  temporal  affairs 
of  this  people!  Think  of  the  effort  that 
has  been  put  forth!  Think  of  what  it 
means  to  the  community!  It  means 
that  something  like  450  employes  were 
engaged  in  this  work,  and  that  $178,000 
was  paid  to  these  employes,  to  help 
sustain   them   and   their  families,  to 


ELDER  KEPHI  PRATT. 


33 


provide  food,  raiment  and  edu- 
cation for  their  children.  It  means 
that  something  like  $62  0,000  was 
paid  out  in  cash  to  the  farmers  of  this 
State  for  beets.  Could  you  put  your 
soil  to  better  use!  Could  you  cultivate 
it  more  profitably,  you  farmers  of  the 
State?  Here  is  $620,000  realized  by  the 
people  to  help  them,  and  to  build  them 
up  temporally.  I  call  that  Gospel.  The 
world  may  call  it  what  they  please,  I 
call  it  a  part  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Twenty-five  thousand  dollars 
was  Paid  to  the  railroads  of  this  State 
for  the  transportation  of  beets;  $36,000 
was  paid  for  labor  connected  with  the 
raising  of  beets  by  the  factory,  making 
a  total  that  was  paid  out  on  the  beet 
account  alone  of  something  like  $682,000 
—all  for  the  good  and  benefit  and  bless- 
ing of  the  people  of  Zion.  That  is  one 
of  the  ways  Zion  is  being  built  up. 

So  I  say  that  our  leaders  of  today  are 
practical  men,  spiritual  and  temporal 
men.  They  are  prepared  to  give  coun- 
sel to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  mat- 
ters that  interest  them  in  the  building 
up  of  Zion.  I  rejoice  in  it,  and  it  is  jusi 
as  much  a  testimony  to  me  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  as  any  testimony 

1  have  ever  had.  Yet  I  know  that  this 
is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
God.  I  know  that  these  practical  men 
who  have  succeeded  him— Brigham 
Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Lorenzo  Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith- 
have  been  inspired  leaders  of  the  peo- 
ple, Prophets  of  God,  and  they  have 
been  and  are  worthy  of  pur  support, 
both  temporally  and  spiritually.  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 

We  thank  thee,  O  God  for  a  Prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  Gospel 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Jesse  N.  Smith. 

Conference  adjourned  till  2  o'clock. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  meeting  was  called  to  order  at 

2  o'clock. 

_  The  Pioneer  stake  children's  sing- 
ing class  rendered  the  selection: 


"Sing,  sing  the  wondrous  story 
Of  a  Hundred  years." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William 
C.  Parkinson. 

The  children's  choir  sang,  "True  to 
the  Faith." 


ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT. 

(President  of  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

Brethren  and  Sisters:    I  feel  grate- 
ful indeed  for  the  privilege  of  attend- 
ing this  great  conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
feel  like  I  had  dropped     from  my 
shoulders  the  cares  and  responsibilities 
of  the  mission  field,  and  had  come  to 
Father's  house,   to  be    blessed  and 
strengthened  in  my  faith  and  feelings, 
and  have  my  heart  enlarged,  my  faith 
increased,  and  be  prepared  to  go  back 
to  my  mission  enjoying  an  increased 
portion  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  to  con- 
tinue my  labors  in  that  field.    We  have 
in  the  Northwestern  States  mission  a 
membership  of  about  800  souls.  We 
have  labored  for  three    years,  and 
more,  in  the  large  cities,  traveling  in 
the  summer,  spring  and  fall  through 
the  lanes,  string-towns  and  country 
places,  and  have  disseminated  the  Gos- 
pel as  far  as  we  could  to  about  2,500,- 
000  of  our  fellow  citizens.    We  have 
oftentimes  felt  appalled  at  the  indif- 
ference manifested  in  the  larger  cities 
of   that  section  of  country,   and  we 
have  some  times  thought  that  all  had 
been  done  there  that  ought  to  be  done 
to  inform  the  people  concerning  the 
Gospel  which  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  again  to  bring  man  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth;  but  I  am  glad  that 
we  did  not  abandon  these  fields.  Al- 
ways we  had  a  doubt    whether  we 
ought  to  shake  off  the  dust  from  our 
feet  against  some  of  the  cities  in  the 
northwest.     When  we  have  felt  dis- 
couraged, and  almost  shed  tears  be- 
cause of  their  indifference,  something 
has  with- held  us  from  taking  away 
the  Elders  from   these  districts,  ex- 
cept in  some   few  cases  for  a  short 
time.    And  now  the  wisdom  of  the  con- 
tinuation of  our  labors  has  manifested 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


itself,  and  the  Lprd  has  poured  out 
His  power  upon  that  people,  in  towns 
and  cities  where  we  formerly  could 
get  no  hearing,  and  has  brought  to 
pass  many  marvelous  things,  and  we 
are  gathering  in  here  one  and  there 
one  noble,  independent  spirit. 

In  Portland,  on  Feb.  4,  we  baptized 
seven  souls,  and  last  Sunday  we  bap- 
tized three  others.  We  went  around 
the  mission  baptizing  people  every- 
where. We  made  an  opening  in  the 
city  of  "Vancouver,  B.  C,  where  about 
18  people  applied  for  baptism,  whereas 
two  years  ago  we  could  not  get  a  hear- 
ing there  at  all.  In  one'  city  where 
for  a  time  we  withdrew  the  Elders  be- 
cause of  the  indifference  manifested, 
viz.,  Spokane,  in  Washington,  the  Lord 
has  poured  out  His  Spirit  upon  the 
people  since  the  Elders  have  gone  back 
there,  and  His  providence  has  been 
manifested  until  the  spirit  that  is  lead- 
ing some  of  the  people  indicates  that 
we  shall  reap  a  harvest  in  that  town. 

One  man  who  had  a  Latter-day 
Saint  wife,  and  had  prevented  her 
from  making  her  membership  known 
to  the  Elders,  lost  her  by  death.  He 
had  in  his  family  six  children,  partly 
grown.  His  wife's  last  request  was 
that  he  would  hunt  up  the  "Mormon" 
Elders  that  they  might  perform  the 
funeral  services,  and  preach  the  dis- 
courses. He  hunted  up  two  of  our 
boys  that  had  not  been  in  the  mission 
but  a  few  months.  They  were  bashful 
young  men,  with  stammering  tongues, 
uneloquent,  and  he  asked  them  if  they 
would  come  and  perform  the  duties 
of  the  funeral  services  over  his 
wife.  They  were  so  frightened  when 
they  promised  to  do  it  that  they  fast- 
ed and  prayed  for  two  days,  and  then 
when  they  went  to  the  funeral  their 
tongues  were  loosed,  and  the  Spirit  and 
power  rested  upon  them  until  the 
hearts  of  the  people  in  the  congregation 
were  melted.  The  husband  came  seek- 
ing forgiveness  that  he  had  manifested 
such  a  spirit  of  bitterness  against  the 
Saints,  and  invited  his  children  to  come 
with  him.  They  became  investigators 
of  "Mormonism,"  and  the  last  I  heard, 


a  week  ago,  they  had  given  in  their 
names  for  baptism. 

A  lady  twelve  miles  out  of  that  city, 
whose  husband  we  have  baptized,  sent 
him  to  find  the  elders,  as  she  had  dis- 
covered something  with  which  she 
could  overturn  "Mormonism,"  and  shb 
wanted  first  to  show  the  elders  the  er- 
ror of  their  ways,  and  then  she  intend- 
ed to  go  about  and  influence  the  neigh- 
borhood against  the  work  that  the  el- 
ders had  been  doing.  When  they  had 
engaged  in  a  conversation  about  four 
hours  her  oldest  son  arose  and  said, 
"Mother,  instead  of  your  proving  that 
Mormonism  is  wrong,  by  your  con- 
versation you  have  proved  to  my  broth- 
er and  I  that  it  is  divine,  and 'if  the 
water  is  not  too  cold  for  Elder  Holli- 
day,  he  can  baptize  me  tomorrow  morn- 
ing." Elder  Holliday  led  the  youn& 
man  into  the  water  the  next  day,  and 
confirmed  him  a  member  of  the  Church 
in  the  presence  of  his  mother. 

We  have  a  few  disgruntled  ministers 
of  various  churches  that  feel  hard  to- 
wards us  for  the  work  that  we  are  do- 
ing in  Vancouver,  and  other  places;  taut 
we  do  not  mind  the  opposition,  and  feel 
always  that  God  has  some  good  people 
where  opposition  arises  in  its  strength 
and  attempts  to  block  up  the  way  of 
this  work. 

The  newspapers  in  my  district  are 
very  kind  to  us,  except  a  few.  They 
publish  for  us  many  good  things,  and 
seldom  publish  anything  against  us. 
They  seem  to  be  ashamed  of  some 
things  that  are  published  against  us  in 
one  place  and  another,  and  they  are 
generally  friendly  towards  us.  Our  mis- 
sion is  more  prosperous  and  there  is  a 
greater  degree  of  the  good  spirit  from 
the  unseen  word  operating  upon  the 
people  than  at  any  time  since  I  have 
been  laboring  there.  The  Elders  and 
Saints  feel  it,  and  we  all  feel  that  the 
Lord  is  working  there,  and  that  we 
shall  lead  many  good  people  into  the 
waters  of  regeneration. 

I  thank  my  brethren  and  this  people 
for  this  privilege  of  speaking  to  you, 
and  I  pray  the  Lord  that  He  will  bless 
this  people  and  all  those  who  bless 
tbtm.    I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the 


ELDER    JOSEPH    E.  ROBINSON. 


35 


mirsioraries  of  this  Church  are  hunting 
the  world  over  with  all  the  might  and 
strength  and  .discernment  that  we  have, 
because  souls  are  precious  to  us.  How 
do  you  take  care  of  the  converts  and 
show  forth  an  example  unto  them  when 
they  come  here?  There  are  missionary 
societies  here  that  hold  reunions  of 
Elders  from  the  various  mission  fields 
in  the  United  States  and  Europe.  When 
I  send  converts  here,  if  the  North- 
western States  Missionary  association 
will  take  them  and  introduce  them  to 
the  Bishop  of  the  ward  where  they 
will  live,  so  that  they  may  be  known 
here  and  be  given  the  hand  of  fellow- 
ship by  the  Saints  of  God,  and  not  stray 
around  these  streets  like  sheep  without, 
a  shepherd,  it  will  be  one  of  the  best 
things  that  you  can  do,  and  will  help 
us  very  materially. 

Gog  bless  the  people  of  Zion  in  all 
their  abiding  places.  'I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  California  Mission.) 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  me,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  at  this 
conference.  It  is  also  a  pleasure  to 
speak  on  conditions  in  California.  We 
have  about  600  members  in  that  mission; 
at  least  that  number  are  enrolled  as 
members,  but  a  few  of  them  we  can  not 
place.  Some  are  not  as  faithful  as  they 
might  be,  but  on  the  whole  they  are  a 
select  set  of  people.  It  is  most  grati- 
fying to  note  month  after  month  and 
sometimes  week  after  week,  the  faith- 
fulness and  stability  of  the  Saints  in 
tithes  and  offerings.  The  tithing  records 
of  the  mission  show  that  there  are 
scores  who  have  their  names  enrolled, 
and  a  person  can  tell  at  a  glance  the 
wages  they  receive  from  month  to 
month,  because  of  the  accuracy  and 
strictness  with  which  they  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings. 

During  the  past  winter  we  have  been 
doing  a  little  missionary  work  in  that 
part  of  Arizona  which  lies  outside  the 
organized  stakes  of  Zion,  principally 
in  the  mining  camps,  and  over  the  bor- 


der into  one  or  two  mining  camps  of 
Old  Mexico.  Great  joy  has  come  to  us 
in  our  missionary  labors  there  in  meet- 
ing with  sons  and  daughters  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  work  in  those  camps, 
and  who  have  not  had  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  the  Saints  in  Sabbath 
meetings.  I  feel  that  a  great  deal  of 
good  has  been  done  to  our  children  in 
this  way,  which  will  help  them  to  fight 
the  good  fight  and  keep  the  faith,  while 
they  are  isolated  from  the  body  of  the 
Church. 

Recently  we  have  endeavored  to  make 
the  Saints  who  are  visiting  at  the  sea- 
side resorts  in  California  feel  at  home, 
by  holding  meetings  in  their  cottages. 
At  Ocean  Park  we  have  rented  a  hall, 
and  meetings  are  held  there  each  Sab- 
bath. 

A  great  deal  of  the  work  which  we 
do  is  as  much  in  the  interest  of  the 
eastern  missions  as  our  own;  for  Cali- 
fornia, during  the  winter  season,  is 
ifrequented  by  thousands  of  visitors 
from  the  east.  We  meet  them  in  our 
tracting,  they  hear  us  upon  the  streets 
when  we  hold  meetings,  and  they  carry 
back  to  the  eastern  states  our  tracts, 
and  in  many  instances  ascertain  the  ad- 
dresses of  the  mission  houses  in  various 
cities  of  the  east.  They  fellowship  us, 
and  treat  us  in  a  fraternal  manner, 
Avhich  they  would  not  do  at  home,  so 
they  frequently  say  themselves,  for  fear 
perhaps  of  losing  caste,  or  arousing  the 
criticism  of  their  friends  because  of 
their  friendliness  to  the  "Mormon"  El- 
ders. But  they  come  out  west  for 
health  or  for  recreation,  and  they  are 
willing  to  see  all  that  is  to  be  seeen,  and 
to  hear  all  that  is  to  be  heard.  While 
in  some  cases  it  is  an  abnormal  curios- 
ity that  brings  them  to  our  gatherings, 
yet  in  the  end  they  are  robbed  of  pre- 
judices, and  return  home  with  friendly 
feelings  towards  us  and  our  people. 
I  do  not  believe  that  an  instance  can 
be  named  where  they  have  given  us  a 
hearing,  and  have  noted  the  good  spirit 
that  our  young  men  possess,  but  they 
have  gone  away  more  friendly,  if  not  to 
the  whole  body  of  the  Church,  at  least 
to  those  they  have  come  in  contact 
with. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  is  thought  by  some  that  we  are 
held  in  contempt  by  all  the  people  of 
the  world,  but  my  testimony  is  that, 
in  nearly  six  years  of  experience  upon 
the  Pacific  coast,  only  in  one  instance 
can  I  say  that  I  have  been  discrimin- 
ated against  because  I  was  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  So  far  as  I  am  concerned, 
it  has  been  the  reverse;  honors  have 
been  given  to  me,  and  people  have  in- 
terested themselves  in  me,  because  of 
my  position  in  the  Church,  and  the  peo- 
ple whom  I  represent.  I  have  had  ex- 
tended to  me,  on  various  occasions, 
marks  of  respect  and  esteem  that  have 
been  helpful  and  gracious  indeed.  Re- 
cently I  had  the  privilege  of  convers- 
ing with  a  very  prominent  man,  who 
is  looked  upon  as  a  rising  light  in  his 
political  party.  My  soul  was  made  to 
rejoice  when  parting  with  him,  for 
he  kindly  grasped  my  hand  and  put 
his  arm  upon  my  shoulder  and 
said:  "When  you  see  John  Hen- 
ry Smith  give  him  my  love., 
and  tell  him  that  I  just  think 
the  world  of  him."  Tuesday  last  I  was 
talking  with  another  influential  gentle- 
man. He  bore  unwitting  testimony  to 
the  fact  that  Isaiah  was  a  prophet,  for 
in  reviewing  the  work  which  our  people 
had  done  he  said:  "I  want  to  tell  you, 
Elder  Robinson,  that  it  is  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder."  Yet  he  is  not  a 
religious  man,  but  he  is  conversant 
with  what  our  people  have  done,  and 
particularly  Avith  the  economic  side  of 
"Mormonism."  I  might  also  mention 
Honorable  W.  E.  Smythe.who  has  writ- 
ten many  friendly  articles  in  relation 
to  our  people  and  their  work.  I  might 
refer  to  Benjamin  Fay  Mills,  the  pastor 
of  the  Fellowship  League  club  of  Los 
lAngie,les,  which  numbers  amjong  its 
members  some  of  the  leading  lights  of 
the  literary  and  scientific  world.  They 
are  building  up  a  so-called  church,  bas- 
ed upon  the  sermon  delivered  upon  the 
Mount,  but  do  not  recognize  Christ  as 
the  Messiah.  Mr.  Mills,  in  talking  to 
me,  said:  "We  are  laboring  for  the 
same  end,  but  along  different  lines,  and 
I  must  say  that  I  can  not  but  respect 
,your  people  for  their  integrity  and 
stability,   and   that  which   they  have 


wrought  in  this  western  country:  al- 
though there  are  some  of  the  tenets 
which  they  teach  in  common  with  other 
churches,  both  orthodox  and  unortho- 
dox, that  I  do  not  agree  with,  or  at 
least  do  not  understand."  Recently,  a 
circumstance  made  me  acquainted  with 
a  gentleman  from  England  who  is  lec- 
turing at  the  College  of  Physicians  and 
Surgeons  in  San  Francisco,  and  is  of 
no  small  note  in  Germany  and  Eng. 
land,  from  whose  schools  he  graduated, 
and  where  he  taught  for  some  years. 
He  said  to  me:  "I  am  not  an  Ameri- 
can, Mr.  Robinson,  but  I  have  viewed 
with  considerable  interest,  as  a  scholar, 
the  work  of  your  people  and  the  prob- 
lems they  are  working  out,  and  I  feel 
as  an  anthropologist,  as  a  student  of 
social  conditions,  deep  interest  in  the 
social  problem  that  your  people  have 
raised,  and  we  shall  note  its  progress, 
and  I  feel  that  you  should  have  been 
left  alone  to  solve  it.  Conditions  are 
such,"  said  he  "that  we  do  not  know 
what  confronts  us  as  an  Anglo-Saxon 
people.  Look  about  you  in  this  state 
and  you  will  find  that  the  people  here 
have  a  problem  in  hand,  and  it  is  this: 
Will  the  native  son  of  the  Golden  AVost 
live  to  be  a  great  grandfather  or  not? 
While  the  peoples  from  southern  Eu- 
rope, and  some  from  northern  Europe, 
are  flourishing  and  growing  numerous 
in  the  warmer  districts  of  California, 
the  native  son,  the  Anglo-Saxon,  is  be- 
ing crowded  out."  He  attributed  this 
to  the  effect,  not  of  the  climate,  so  tar 
as  heat  is  concerned,  but  that  it  was 
so  much  sunshine  that  was  detrimen- 
tal' to  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  the  Teu- 
tonic races,  and  that  they  flourished 
best  in  the  north.  "Because  of  this," 
said  he,  "we  will  view  with  considera- 
ble interest  and  attention  the  progress 
of  your  Mexican  colonies."  He  wanted 
to  know  if  I  was  conversant  with  con- 
ditions there  and  whether  there  were 
great-grandchildren  to  be  found  among 
that  people. 

I  might  go  on  and  cite  others  of  the 
honorable  of  the  earth,  who  have  talk- 
ed to  me.  One  of  them,  an  eminent  sur- 
geon, who  is  going  to  lecture  for  three 
months  in  England,   by  invitation  of 


ELDER    JOSEPH    E.  ROBINSON. 


37 


one  of  the  scientific  societies  of  the 
land,  has  been  one  of  our  best  friends 
and  supporters.  When  any  accident  or 
serious  illness  has  occurred  to  members 
of  our  Church  in  the  immediate  neigh- 
borhood of  San  Francisco,  or  when  any 
of  the  Elders  have  developed  organic 
trouble  that  could  not  be  overcome  by 
mild  nursing  or  friendly  physicians, 
whenever  it  was  evident  that  a  special- 
ist's attention  was  required,  we,  have 
gone  to  this  man's  hospital  and  he  has 
treated  our  brethren  free  of  charge. 
He  has  written  to  me  that  if  there  is 
anything  he  can  do  for  our  people, 
w  in  ether  they  have  any  money  or  not, 
we  can  command  his  services,  tind  Lhe 
services  of  his  hospital. 

I  think  it  is  good  to  know  that  all 
men  do  not  hold  us  in  contempt,  but 
that  those  who  are  liberal  minded, 
those  who  are  watching  the  progress 
of  events,  recognize  in  the  Gospel  we 
teach  an  uplifting  and  saving  force; 
that  there  is  something  in  it  that  does 
not  come  from  man's  wisdom,  but  from 
the  Spirit  of  our  Father  who  is  in  Heav- 
en. In  various  ways  these  friends  of 
ours  acknowledge  this  by  their  testimo- 
nies and  their  actions  toward  us. 
One  of  the  pension  examining  board 
of  the  state,  who  is  a  physician,  told 
me  that  he  had  seen  a  coterie  of  Elders 
upon  the  streets  of  the  capital  city  at 
various  times  speaking  in  public,  but 
did  not  know  who  they  were;  but  he 
said  that  he  never  went  by  them  with- 
out feeling  that  he  would  like  to  take 
them  in  his  arms  and  bless  them,  be- 
cause of  the  cleanliness  of  their  lives, 
which  was  exemplified  in  their  dress 
and  could  be  read  in  their  counte- 
nances. After  he  became  acquainted 
with  us  he  made  his  office  a  rendez- 
vous for  our  Elders,  and  has  treated 
them  for  any  ailment  without  charg- 
ing anything  at  all  for  his  services. 

In  this  connection  I  would  like  to 
say  kindly,  to  the  Bishops  and  Presi- 
dents of  stakes,  that  I  do  not  want  you 
to  think  California  Is  a  cure-all  for  all 
kinds  of  disease.  Out  of  30  elders  we 
have  had  during  the  past  year  nearly  50 
Per  cent  of  them  have  been  ill  when 
they  came  .there,   with   lung  trouble. 


threat  trouble,   or  heart  trouble;  for 
that  reason  the  efforts  and  labors  of 
some  of  the  able-bodied  men  have  been 
^embarrassed.   Only  last  week  a  brothei 
came  to  the  mission  and  said:   "I  guess 
you  know  I  was  called  to  the  Northern 
States."    No,  I  said,  I  do  not  know. 
"Well,"  he  said,   "I    was,    but  they 
thought  I  had  better  come  here  for  my 
health."    Three  weeks  before,  another 
man  came  for  his  health  because  he 
had  rheumatics,   and  they  thought  it 
would  be  better  for  him  to  go  to  Cali- 
fornia.  On  this  account  our  labors  have 
been  handicapped  more  or  less.  Not- 
withstanding this,   however,   we  have 
had  better  success  in  baptisms,  and  in 
meeting  people  in  their  homes  and  in 
public  halls,  than  we  have  had  for  18 
or  10  months  past.    We  have  had  the 
privilege  of  baptizing  some  very  good 
men  and  women  this  spring;  and  I  have 
been  surprised  at  the  knowledge  they 
have  displayed  of  the  laws  of  the  Gos- 
pel.   One  man  said    to    me:  "Now, 
Brother  Robinson,  I  want  to  enjoy  all 
the.  gifts  of  the  Church  and  I  want  to 
pay  my  tithes."     I  knew  he  did  not 
work  and  I  said  to  him,  "You  are  not 
laboring  now,  are  you?"   He  said,  "No, 
but  I  have  saved  a  little,  and  I  want  to 
pay  tithes  on  my  surplus,  for  so  reads 
the  Word  of  the  Lord."    I  blessed  him 
for  his  faith  and  he  paid  tithing  on  his 
surplus.    One  of  our  sisters  who  had 
been  converted  also  paid  tithing  on  her 
surplus.     She  was  a  young  girl  just 
baptized  into  the  Church,  but  in  this 
way  she  showed  her  faith  in  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    I  feel  that 
though  the  converts  may  be  few,  when 
they  evidence  such  faith  as  this  it  is 
worth  all  the  effort  we  put  forth.  Some 
feel  that  it  is  uphill  work  to  hold  meet- 
ing? on  the  streets.    On  one  of  the  fa- 
vored streets  of  San  Francisco— Grant 
Avenue— you   will    find   in   one  short 
block  nearly  every  evening  in  the  week 
from  ten  to  fifteen  different  meetings 
being  held,  orthodox  and  unorthodox, 
infidel,  socialist,  Citizens'  Alliance,  Sal- 
vation Army,  Volunteers  of  America, 
the  Penial   Mission,   and  independent 
lecturers,  colored  and  white,  and  among 
the  rest  you  will  find  the  "Mormon" 


38 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Elders.    We  usually  hold  two  corners. 
Some  of  my  brethren  who  visited  there 
•said  to  me:    "Brother  Robinson,  this 
looks  like  hawking  the  Gospel  on  the" 
street    corner;    it    seems    to    mfe  you 
might  just   as   well   talk  against  the 
w'nd."     Well,   every  once  in  a  while 
some  one  will  come  up,  grasp  us  by 
the  hand,  and  say,  "That  is  just  the 
kind  of  talk  I  want;  it  is  what  I  have 
been  looking  for."    One  man  told  us 
that  three  weeks  before,  he  had  hearu. 
us  on  the  streets  and  had  come  to  om 
meetings,  and,  said  he,  "you  will  par- 
don me,  Elder  Robinson,  but  I  cannot 
keep  away  from  you;  you  teach  just 
what  I  want."    So  I  feel  that  we  are 
blessed  if  only  occasionally  one  shall 
come  to  us  with  this  testimony,  and 
then  become  indentified  with  the  Church 
I  w  ant  to  say  for  the  Pioneer  Society 
of  San  Bernardino  (that  old  town  which 
was  founded  by  our  brethren  and  sis- 
ters in  early  days,)   their  hearts  as 
they  grow  older,  reach  out  to  the  peo- 
pleple  of  Utah.  For  some  years  we  have 
gone  to  their  meetings,  we  have  sung 
for  them,  we  have  prayed  for  them,  we 
have   helped   them   bury   their  dead; 
and     last     fall     we     organized  for 
them    an    old    folks'    day,    the  first 
of  the  kind  in  that    state.    It  seemed 
to  find  favor  with  all  the  citizens.  Vari- 
ous church  members  came  to  us,  prin- 
cipally of  the  Ladies'  Aid  society,and 
assisted  to  care  for  the  old  people  upon 
the  day  set  apart  for  the  holiday,  and 
they  pledged  themselves  to  support  us 
in  that  manner,  until  the  enmity  of 
some  of  the  churches  was  aroused,  and 
they  forbade  their  members  to  have 
ought  to  do  with  us.    This  has  resulted 
in  some  leaving  the  church  they  be- 
longed to,  and  they  are  helping  us  in 
that  city.    Among  other  things,  they 
propose  to  visit  Salt  Lake  City  this 
summer,  through  the  kindness  of  Sen- 
ator Clark.   As  early  as  the  17th  of  last 
July  they  passed  a  motion  inviting  me 
as   their  honored   guest,  to  join  them 
when  they  should  visit  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  to  be  with  them  here,  not  because 
of  my  own  individuality,  but  because  I 
was  the  representative  of  our  people.  1 
had  the  privilege  today  of  handing  to 


Elder  Ben  E.  Rich  a  little  souvenir 
from  the  society,  in  the  shape  of  a 
badge  of  membership,  presented  to  him 
because  of  the  love  that  they  bore  his 
father.  As  they  grow  older  their  love 
for  the  founders  of  u-.ai  city  increases, 
and  they  hold  them  in  high  honor  and 
esteem.  Many  of  them,  although  they 
have  lost  their  identity  with  the 
Church,  and  possibly  so  long  as  they 
live  will  not  recognize  themselves  ot 
permit  us  to  recognize  them  as  mem- 
bers, yet  I  have  noted  that  when  the 
"dread  summons"  comes  to  carry  them 
hence,  they  want  us  to  be  with  them, 
and  have  asked  that  we  should  preach 
their  funeral  discourses.  In  many  in- 
stances they  have  even  acknowledged 
that  the  Gospel  is  true,  and  that  it  has 
been  through  their  own  weakness  that 
they  have  fallen  away  and  lost  their 
membership. 

The  young  Elders  in  that  mission  ;>re 
humble,  faithful,  and  painstaking  in 
their  efforts.  They  go  not  forth  in  then- 
own  strength,  but  like  David,  when  he 
faced  Goliath,  they  go  in  the  strength 
and  the  name  of  the  Lord  God  of  Israel. 
The  courage  which  they  evidence,  and 
the  faith  they  manifest,  works  upon 
the  hearts  of  the  people  to  receive  their 
testimonies,  and"  it  makes  friends  of 
them  whether  they  embrace  the  Gospel 
or  not.    This  encourages  us. 

We  feel  to  sustain  the  Church  organ- 
ization. We  have  learned  by  experi- 
ence that  we  do  not  walk  in  our  own 
light.  Sometimes  we  borrow  light  from 
others,  but  we  are  trying  to  live  so 
that  we  shall  walk  by  faith,  by  the 
light  that  shines  from  within,  that  we 
may  be  enabled  to  follow  our  file  lead- 
ers in  all  things:  in  this  we  know  there 
is  safety.  God  grant  that  we  may  re- 
alize all  our  fond  ideals  and  aspira- 
tions, and  that  it  shall  not  be  long  be- 
fore the  world  shall  believe  that  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  for 
the  uplifting  of  humanity,  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  souls  of  men,  for  the 
healing  of  the  nations,  and  that  we  are 
the  ambassadors  of  truth  and  right- 
eousness, I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


39 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 

(President  of  Northern  States  Mission. 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  am 
happy  to  have  the  privilege  of  attend- 
ing this  conference.  I  have  enjoyed 
the  good  spirit  that  has  prevailed  and 
the  reports  that  have  been  given,  and  I 
pray  that  God  will  bless  me  the  few 
minutes  I  stand  before  you  to  report 
the  condition  of  the  Northern  States 
mission.  I  am  proud  to  have  the 
privilege  of  laboring  in  the  ministry 
with  so  many  good  brethren  who  have 
heen  called  to  preach  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  In  the  last  seven  weeks 
I  have  met  with  the  seven  conferences 
of  the  Northern  States  mission,  and  I 
have  been  led  to  think  that  our  Elders 
are  like  some  of  the  young  men  of  the 
Scriptures,  very  youthful;  but  I  can 
hear  witness  that  God  has  been  with 
them  in  their  ministry,  and  magnified 
them  before  the  people,  and  the  honest 
in  heart  have  been  made  to  rejoice. 
Some  who  left  you  as  boys  have  been 
moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  of  God  to 
such  a  degree  that  their  wisdom  has 
made  them  mighty  servants  of  the 
Lord.  In  listening  to  the  little  children 
sing  this  afternoon  I  was  led  to  re- 
member the  time  when  Joseph  Smith, 
as  a  boy,  stood  in  the  presence  of  our 
Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ.  I 
thought  of  the  Elders  who  have  had 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  poured  out  upon 
them  in  great  power,  and  though  their 
hearts  are  not  moved  to  the  same  ex- 
tent as  was  the  Prophet  Joseph's,  yet 
they  have  been  led  to  praise  God  for 
the  degree  of  His  Spirit  that  has  rest- 
ed upon  them.  I  have  contemplated 
much  of  late  how  Jloseph  Smith  in 
his  youthfulness  must  have  been  im- 
pressed by  standing  in  the  presence  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and,  after  the 
lapse  of  three  and  one-half  years,  by 
the  wonderful  lessons  he  received  from 
the  Angel  of  God.  He  was  then  left 
again  for  a  time,  and  later  received 
wonderful  lessons  from  on  high,  until, 
when  he  arrived  at  maturity,  he  was 
prepared  to  be  an  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God.  Through  him  our  Fath- 
er restored  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 


— a  Gospel  of  work,  a  Gospel  which 
should  prepare  the  earth  for  the  com- 
ing of  our  Lord  and  Master  to  reign 
thereon  among  His  children.  He  never 
taught  a  Gospel  of  idleness.  He  taught 
the  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  must 
be  industrious. 

In  our  ministry  throughout  the 
states  of  Illinois,  Iowa  and  Wisconsin, 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  well  known 
for  their  labors,  their  integrity,  their 
faithfulness,  their  fidelity  to  God,  and 
their  fellow  men.  I  am  proud  to  have 
the  privilege  of  being  a  member  ifr 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a. 
Church  that  teaches  men,  women  and 
children  to  work  to  prepare  them- 
selves to  enjoy  the  presence  of  our 
Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  as' 
well  as  associate  with  those  men  who 
have  lived  before  us  who,  by  their 
faith  and  good  works,  were  prepared 
to  enjoy  the  salvation  which  comes  by 
the  grace  of  God. 

The  conditions  of  the  Northern  States 
mission  we  think  were  never  brighter. 
Last  October  we  reported  to  you  a  con- 
ference just  held  in  Nauvoo,  and,  while 
we  have  not  baptized  any  more  people 
there,  we  have  established  a  Sunday 
school,  and  I  believe  the  average  at- 
tendance has  been  40.  Our  services 
are  attended  by  from  100  to  300  peo- 
ple. They  say  their  city  is  60  years 
behind  itself* -  and  they  welcome  us 
back  because  our  people  do  things. 
One  man  told  me  that  it  seems  as 
though  the  ground  in  and  around 
Nauvoo  had  been  cursed,  and  that  it 
would  never  amount  to  anything  until 
the  Latter-day  Saints  came  back. 
We  announced  our  desire  to  hold  meet- 
ings there  permanently,  and  the  peo- 
ple helped  us  to  obtain  a  suitable 
place  for  that  purpose.  We  secured  a 
corner  lot  on  the  block  that  President 
John  Taylor  used  to  live  upon.  The 
place  was  used  for  a  store,  but  it  has 
been  fitted  up  as  a  meeting  room,  and 
one  year's  rent  paid  in  advance  by 
the  people,  because  they  desire  us  to 
continue  preaching  among  them.  The 
best  people  of  the  town  are  found  in 
our  congregations  listening  to  the 
voices  of  the  humble  Elders  who  are 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sent  to  preach  unto  them.  Our  con- 
certs and  other  amusements  that  we 
have  given  there  have  been  well  oat- 
ronized. 

One  year  ago  last  winter  our  Elders 
were  turned  out  at  11  o'clock  at  night 
from  a  public  hotel  in  Zion  City.  Be- 
fore then  they  had  lived  in  a  dozen 
homes  there,  but  the  edict  went  forth 
from  "Elijah"  Dowie,  and  they  were 
turned  out  from  the  hotel  and  left  the 
■city,  with  snow  about  eight  inches 
■deep,  and  had  to  walk  a  number  of 
miles  to  another  town.  But  within  the 
last  few  months  our  Elders  have  found 
much  to  do  in  and  around  Zion  City. 
The  people  there  have  been  taught  that 
an  Angel  would  come,  and  that  a 
church  would  be  established  upon  the 
earth  with  Apostles,  Seventies,  Elders. 
Priests,  teachers,  and  Deacons,  as  they 
were  originally  in  the  church  of  Christ, 
and  they  have  been  looking  for  these 
to  be  appointed  by  the  man  whom  they 
have  thought  to  be  Elijah  II.  The 
Elders  are  now  declaring  to  them  the 
Gospel  message,  and  while  we  have 
not  baptized  any  yet,  numbers  of  the. 
people  welcome  us  to  their  homes,  and 
we  believe  our  Elders  will  have  the 
privilege  of  baptizing  some  of  them. 

In  the  city  of  Council  Bluffs,  where 
about  three  years  ago  the  Elders  were 
taken  away  after  we  had  vainly  tried 
for  years  to ,  maintain  a  branch  of  the 
Church,  the  Elders  are  now  laboring 
again,  with  good  success.  Since 
Christmas,  we  have  baptized  about  a 
dozen,  and  there  are  more  good  honest 
souls  prepared  to  accept  the  truth. 
We  feel  much  encouraged  in  that  city, 
as  we  are  in  other  cities.  We  are 
thankful  for  the  number  of  Elders  who 
are  being  sent  to  that  mission.  The 
field  is  large,  and  many  people  are 
hunting  for  the  truth;  and  they  are  be- 
ginning to  think  that  it  is  wrong  for 
congregations  to  pay  ministers  to 
study  the  word  of  God  for  them,  in- 
stead of  individuals  drawing  near  to 
the  Lord  tnemselves. 

Our  students  in  Chicago  are  a  great 
help  to  the  Elders  there.  We  have 
taken  most  of  the  Elders  out  of  Chica- 
go and  left  the  preaching  to  be  done  by 


our  students.  They  are  a  faithful  lot, 
almost  to  a  man.  They  are  found,  in 
church  at  least  once  each  Sunday,  at 
Sunday  school  or  Sacrament  meeting 
showing  considerable  faith  when  you 
consider  that  they  have  gone  there  to 
gain  an  education  along  other  lines. 
We  are  proud  of  our  students,  and  the 
universities  are  proud  of  them.  This 
year  the  University  of  Wisconsin  and 
the  University  of  Chicago  were  repre- 
sented by  two  of  our  students  in  the 
Inter-state  debate. 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  thank- 
ful for  the  privilege  of  bearing  my  tes- 
timony and  reporting  the  condition  of 
that  mission.  Some  of  the  honest  in 
heart  are  prepared  to  receive  the  truth. 
We  have  about  all  we  can  do  minister- 
ing to  those  who  desire  to  be  taught 
the  Gospel,  and  to  be  led  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  way.  I  pray  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  His  blessings 
will  be  upon  the  Elders  there,  and 
upon  the  honest  in  heart,  also.  We 
pray  that  our  Father  in  heaven  will 
help  us  to  realize  the  great  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  us,  that  we  will 
feel  in  part  what  the  Prophet  Joseph 
did  after  he  received  his  great  les- 
sons from  our  Father  in  Heaven,  and 
the  holy  angels  that  he  had  the  priv- 
ilege of  being  taught  by.  We  pray 
that  God  will  bless  the  leaders  of  Zion 
today,  and  the  people  also,  that  they 
may  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  Jesus. 
We  pray  for  these  blessings  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  children's  choir  sang,  "One 
hundred  years." 


ELDER  JAMES  G.  DUFFIN. 

(President  of  Central  States  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  very 
grateful  indeed  for  the  blessings  I  am 
enjoying  in  attending  this  great  con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  am 
thankful  that  I  can  report  to  you  that 
the  mission  where  I  am  laboring  is  in 
a  most  excellent  condition,  and  that 
your  sons  who  have  been  sent  there  by 
the  authority  of  the  Lord  are  in  good 


ELDER  JAMES  G.  DUPFIN. 


.condition  spiritually  and  physically  foi 
their  work.    They  travel  largely  in  the 
•country  districts;    at   the   same  time 
many  of  them  labor  in  the  cities.  Pour 
■of  the  great  commercial  cities  of  our 
•country  are  located   in   that  section 
•embraced  within  the    Central  States 
Mission.    The  elders  travel  principally 
two  by  two;  but  when  circumstances 
demand  they  go  singly.    They  'work  in 
the  cities  and  in  the  country  districts; 
they  sleep  in  all  kinds  of  places;  they 
visi:  all  classes  of  people;  and  yet  out 
of  more  than  five  hunded  elders  who- 
have  labored  in  that  mission  since  I 
have  been  there,  not  one  of  them,  so 
far  as  my  knowledge   goes,   has  re- 
turned home  unclean,   as  a  result  of 
anything  he  has  done  while  laboring 
In  the  mission  field.    I  have  felt  thai 
that  was  a  remarkable  record  for  up- 
wards of  five  hundred  young  men  who 
have  gone  into  the  world  inexperienced, 
an:l  many  of  whom  have  scarcely  been 
away  from  their  homes  before.  During 
the  past  year  our  elders  have  visited, 
fir  each  elder,  one  thousand  families, 
of  those  who  are  strangers  to  the  Gos- 
pel .as  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  and  inasmuch  as  they  tra- 
vel generally  two  by  two,  that  would 
make  two   thousand  families  to  each 
pair  of  elders.    In  Louisiana  the  elders 
were  quarantined  during  a  large  part  of 
the  year  because  of  an  outbreak  of  the 
yellow  fever  in  the  city  of  New  Orleans. 
Notwithstanding  this,  our  baptisms  foi 
1903  were  in  in  excess  of  the  year  pre- 
vious. The  work  of  the  Lord  is  grow- 
ing in  that  part  of  the  land.    But  there 
is  a  large  part  of  the  population  that 
we  are  unable  to  reach  because  we  havt 
no  elders  in  the  field  who  can  speak 
the  language  of  the  people  I  refer  t«*. 
Tho  Lord  has  brought  to  this  country 
ni.'llions  of  people  from  other  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  from  the  Germanic 
states  of  Europe  thousands  have  come 
ttho  are  among  the  best  people  of  that 
section  of  the  country  in  which  we  are 
laboring.   In  several  states  of  our  mis- 
sion there  are  whole  counties  the  popu- 
lation  of  which   is   nearly  altogether 
German.    They  speak  but  very  little 
English,  and  we  have  not  an  elder  in 


the  mission  who  can  visit  them  and 
teach  them  the  Gospel.  I  say  the  Lord 
has  brought  these  people  to  this  land. 
He  has  brought  them  to  our  doors;  they 
are  a  superior  class  of  people;  they  art. 
industrious,  thrifty,  and  hospitable, 
and  our  elders  could  go  among  them 
without  purse  or  scrip,  according  to  tht 
plan  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  teach 
them  the  Gospel  and  receive  their  hos- 
pitality. We  are  satisfied  that  thou- 
sands of  them  would  rejoice  in  the  mes- 
sage that  cur  elders  would  bear  to 
them.  Some  of  them  who  have  learned 
to  speak  the  English  language  a  little 
have  received  the  Gospel  and  art. 
among  the  very  best  of  our  members. 

Sometime  ago  one  of  our  elders  was. 
taken  by  a  body  of  men  out  into  the 
woods,  tied  to  a  tree,  and  whipped.  This 
is  a  very  exceptional  case  in  our  mis- 
sion. As  soon  as  this  fact  was  reported 
to  me,  I  wrote  to  the  Governor  of  the 
State  where  the  whipping  occurred  (the 
State  of  Arkansas),  and  called  his  at- 
tention to  the  outrage  that  had  been 
done  upon  this  young  man.  I  asked 
him.  as  the  executive  of  that  state,  if 
he-  would  not  see  to  it  that  protect i or, 
was  given  to  our  elders,  and  that  the 
wrongs  that  this  citizen  of  the  United 
States  had  suffered  should  be  redress  vt. 
He  wrote  me  a  very  kind  and  court  30'is 
letter,  stating  that  it  was  the  first  t:me 
during  his  administration  that  he  had 
heard  of  anything  of  the  kind  in  Ms 
state,  and  he  promised  to  send  the  na- 
pe's fend  an  account  of  the  outrage  to 
th.?  persecuting  attorney  and  judge  of 
the  district  where  it  took  place,  and  see 
that  steps  were  taken  to  bring  the  guil- 
ty uarlies  to  justice. 

A  short  time  after  I  received  a  letter 
from  th*  judge  of  the  Fifth  judicial  dis- 
trict of  the  State  of  Arkansas,  and  it 
road  something  like  this:  "Pres.  7.  G. 
Duftin,  Kansas  City,  Mo.  Dear  Sir:  Pa- 
Tjerd  hav<?  been  placed  in  my  hands 
from  the  governor  of  the  state,  giving 
riie  information  that  an  outrage  has 
be.m  committed  upon  the  holy  of  one 
of  the  eMers  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  ol  Latter-day  Saints.  I  reg.-st 
exceedingly  to  learn  that  such  a  thing 
has  been  done  in  this  state.    I  have 


42 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


hrard  thai  such  things  have  oeen  done, 
that  your  elders  have  been  mistreated 
in  veal's  past,  and  that  the  guilty  par- 
ties have  gone  unwhipped  of  justice; 
but  in  this  case,  if  it  is  possible  that  I 
can  do  anything  to  bring  these  guilty 
parties  to  justicej  can  assure  you  that 
they  will  not  escape."  He  goes  on  to 
say  that,  about  the  time  the  elder  was 
receiving  this  treatment  in  his  dis- 
trict, his  sick  wife  was  in  the  State 
of  Utah  for  her  health,  and  she  was  be- 
ing cared  for  by  a  family  of  our  people, 
and  receiving  the  kindest  of  treatment 
at  their  hands.  I  thought,  my  brethren 
and  sisters  when  this  letter  came  to 
me,  what  an  example  it  was  to  us  of 
the  treatment  that  we  should  give 
the  stranger  within  our  gates,  and  after 
many  days  the  bread  that  is  cast  upon 
the  water  will  return  to  us  with  a 
blessing,  not  only  unto  our  people,  but 
unto  our  sons  who  are  proclaiming  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The 
work  of  the  Lord  is  increasing  in  that 
land.  The  faith  of  your  boys  is  grow- 
ing. They  plant  their  feet  firmly  upon 
the  revelations  of  God.  They  are  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel,  neither  are 
they  ashamed  of  the  name  they  bear, 
nor  of  their  parentage,  nor  of  their 
people.  They  face  the  world  with  tin. 
glorious  message  of  revealed  truth  that 
they  have  to  bear,  and  they  are  loyal 
and  true  in  defense  of  that  truth,  up- 
holding before  the  people  the  man  of 
God  whom  our  Father  has  placed  at  the 
head  of  His  work  upon  this  earth.  The 
man  to  whom  He  has  given  the  keys 
of  the  priesthood  has  their  loyal  sup- 
port, confidence,  and  love,  and  this 
work  has  their  loyal  support  and  love 
also.  With  the  help  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven,  so  long  as  we  are  in  that  land 
laboring  among  our  young  brethren,  it 
is  our  desire  that  when  your  sons  re- 
turn to  their  homes  they  will  have  it  to 
say  that  their  brethren  who  presided 
over  them,  in  every  act  of  their  lives, 
in  every  word  of  instruction,  advice, 
or  counsel,  sought  to  instill  into  their 
hearts  the  principle  of  faith  in  this 
great  work  that  God  has  established 
upon  the  earth,  nevermore  to  be  taken 
therefrom,  nor  to  be  given  to  another 


peopie.  May  the  blessings  of  heaven 
be  with  you  and  His  Spirit  continue 
with  us  in  this  conference.  I  ask 
these  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 

(President  of  Southern  States  Mission.)" 

The  territory  covered  by  the  Southern 
States  mission  is  quite  large,  and  in- 
cludes the  states  of  Ohio,  Virginia, 
North  Carolina,  South  Carolina, 
Georgie,  Florida,  Alabama,  Mississip- 
pi, Tennessee,  and  Kentucky.  We  have 
had  a  large  number  of  Elders  labor- 
ing in  that  district.  Recently  it  has 
been  my  privilege  to  investigate  the- 
conditions  in  some  of  the  islands  of 
the  sea.  I  have  visited  the  Bahama 
Islands.  We  have  Elders  laboring-  on 
the  Island  of  Key  West,  and  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony 
also  upon  the  Island  of  Cuha.  During 
the  few  years  I  have  labored  in  the 
South,  I  think  fourteen  hundred  Elders 
have  labored  at  various  times  under 
my  direction.  I  believe  I  can  count 
upon  the  fingers  of  one  hand  the  num- 
ber of  Elders  who  have  made  ship- 
wreck of  their  missions  and  been  sent 
home  with  a  dishonorable  release.  Re- 
cently we  had  the  presidents  of  all  our 
conferences  together,  and,  after  culling 
out  from  the  records  of  the  various 
conferences  the  names  of  Saints  whom 
we  had  lost  sight  of,  and  those  whose 
standing  in  the  Church  was  questioned, 
our  reports  showed  that  we  had  almost 
ten  thousand  members  of  the  Church 
in  the  Southern  States  mission. 

We  have  had  considerable  trouble  on 
a  little  island  by  the  name  of  Harker's 
Island,  in  North  Carolina.  Our  Elders 
erected  a  church  there,  the  Saints  hav- 
ing purchased  the  lumber  and  floated 
it  over  to  the  island,  and  the  Elders 
doing  the  carpenter  work.  It  was  one 
of  the  nicest  churches  on  the  island. 
But  the  enemy  burned  it  down,  soon 
after  the  visit  of  one  of  the  ministers, 
who  was  very  much  opposed  to  us,  and 
who  recommended  the  people  to  take 
any  step  to  rid  themselves  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" religion.     One  of  our  Elders  had: 


ELDER  BEN.  E.  RICH. 


43 


started  a  school  there  by  request,  there 
being  no  school  upon  the  island,  and 
this  seemed  to  enrage  the  people,  with 
the  result  as  stated.  The  school  was 
continued  in  a  private  house,  and'  they 
were  informed  by  a  note  tacked  upon 
the  door  that  the  house  would  be 
burned  if  the  school  was  continued.  One 
of  the  merchants  received  a  notice  that 
his  store  would  be  burned  unless  he 
discharged  a  "Mormon"  girl  employed 
there.  They  thought  they  would  con- 
tinue the  Sunday  school  in  the  open  air, 
and  now  they  have  received  word  that 
they  must  not  do  that,  or  else  they 
will  burn  the  houses  of  all  the  Saints 
if  they  continue  it.  (President  Smith 
asks  me  if  we  had  received  notice  that 
they  would  burn  the  air.)  1  wrote  to 
the  Governor  of  North  Carolina,  and  in 
answer  he  stated  that  his  people  did 
not  like  our  faith,  but  he  would  see 
what  could  be  done  towards  protecting 
us.  I  told  him,  in  my  reply  to  his  an- 
swer, that  the  people  did  not  like  the 
faith  of  Christ  Jesus,  and  for  that  rea- 
son they  crucified  Him.  I  said  that 
some  of  my  people  at  home  did  not 
like  his  faith,  but  his  co-religionists 
were  permitted  to  worship  God  accord- 
ing to  the  dictates  of  their  consciences. 
I  reminded  him  also  that  there  were 
1,425  of  the  people  of  his  state  who  did 
like  my  faith  and  belonged  to  it,  and 
we  asked  him  to  protect  them  in  the 
rights  guaranteed  unto  them  under,  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  He 
has  sent  the  papers  to  the  attorney- 
general,  and  I  believe  that  we  are  going 
to  get  justice.  We  do  not  occupy  the 
same  position  that  the  Irishman  did 
when  he  was  told  by  the  judge  that 
justice  should  be  done  to  him,  and  he 
stated  that  that  was  what  he  was 
afraid  of.  (Laughter.) 

As  a  rule  Ave  receive  more  protec- 
tion in  the  Southern  States  now  than 
we  have  had  before,  and  we  have  been 
building  more  churches.  In  the  City 
of  Jacksonville,  we  have  just  com- 
pleted a  church  at  a  cost  of  $2,500.  All 
the  carpenter  work  has  been  performed 
by  the  Elders.  It  is  nicely  seated,  and 
everything  bids  fair  for  the  building 
up  of  a  most  excellent  branch  in  that 


part  of  the  mission.  I  believe  that 
our  Elders  and  Saints  are  united,  but, 
as  I  have  stated  many  times,  we  have 
not  the  number  of  missionaries  that  we 
ought  to  have. 

I  was  interested  in  the  remarks  made 
by  some  of  the  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  the  Seventies  concerning  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Seventies.  Their  mission 
is  in  the  world.  They  are  the  ecclesi- 
astical lawyers,  to  argue  the  cause  of" 
God's  plan  of  salvation  before  the  jury 
of  the  world.  "Whenever  one  of  these 
Seventies  is  selected,  I  do  not  think  it 
is  right  for  the  High  Priests  to  object 
to  his  going  upon  a  mission  because 
he  is  needed  at  home.  You  should 
receive  more  of  your  help  at  home  from 
among  the  High  Priests.  That  is  their 
business.  You  remember  the  "Mormon" 
creed  as  laid  down  by  Brigham  Young, 
"Let  every  man  mind  his  own  busi- 
ness." It  is  the  High  Priests'  business 
to  preside  and  work  at  home.  It  is 
the  Seventies'  business  to  go  into  the 
world  and  preach  the  Gospel;  and  when 
they  are  called,  let  them  go. 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  privilege  of 
coming  here  to  worship.  In  preaching 
the  Gospel  in  the  world  we  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  divine  mission  of  the  men 
who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  work, 
and  what  I  said  to  the  young  people  a 
few  nights  ago  in  one  of  the  wards 
I  would  like  to  say  to  you.  It  is  our 
duty  to  respect  these  men,  to  honor  and 
sustain  them,  and  to  remember  the 
word  of  God  which  has  come  down 
to  us  through  the  ages,  that  He  doeth 
nothing  save  He  revealeth  His  secrets 
to  His  servants  the  Prophets;  and, 
where  there  are  no  visions  the  people 
will  perish.  If  we  will  examine  holy 
writ  we  will  learn  the  respect  that  God 
has  for  those  designated  as  prophets 
upon  the  earth,  and  also  the  respect 
that  He  commands  His  angels  in 
Heaven  to  pay  to  His  prophets  on  the 
earth.  You  read  the  tenth  chapter 
of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  and  there- 
you  will  find  an  account  of  as  good  a 
man  as  lived  praying  to  God  for  in- 
formation, and  he  had  so  much  power 
and  influence  with  the  Lord  that  his 
prayers  came  up  as  a  memorial,  and 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  sent  a  holy  angel  in  response  to 
his  petition.  When  the  angel  came 
and  Cornelius  asked  for  information 
concerning  what  he  should  do  in  order 
"to  be  saved,  the  angel  understood  the 
law  of  Heaven  concerning  God's  proph- 
ets upon  the  earth.  He  could  have 
answered  Cornelius'  question  himself, 
but  he  knew  that  God  worked  through 
His  servants  upon  the  earth,  and  the 
angel  told  Cornelius  where  he  could 
find  Peter,  and  God  prepared  Peter 
for  the  coming  of  the  servants  of 
that  good  man. 

This  should  teach  us  the  lesson  that 
God  works  through  prophets  on  the 
earth,  and  honors  them  in  their  place, 
that  his  angels  honor  them,  and  that 
we  should  honor  them  and  stand  by 
them,  and  not  always  be  looking  for 
faults.  The  Gospel  makes  every  man 
free  and  independent.  It  makes  me  as 
free  and  independent  in  the  sphere  in 
which  I  live  as  God  is  free  in  the  sphere 
in  which  He  lives.  He  has  given  us  all 
our  free  agency.  Even  the  prophets  of 
God  have  their  free  agency,  and  must 
be  left  to  themselves  at  times  to  act 
upon  that  free  agency.  If  it  were  not 
so  their  agency  would  be  nullified. 
There  is  another    case    in    holy  writ 

-where  Saul,  who  persecuted  the  Saints, 
while  on  his  road  to  Damascus  was 
stricken  blind,  and  he  heard  a  voice 
saying  unto  him,  "Why  persecutest 
thou  me?"  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?"  'I 
am  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  whom  thou  per- 
secutest." What  must  have  been  the 
feelings  of  Saul  upon  that  occasion?  He 
immediately  wanted  to  know  what  he 
should  do.  Now,  there  was  Jesus  talk- 
ing to  him.  Christ  knew  what  he 
should  do,  but  even  He  had  respect  to 
His  servants  and  prophets,  and  knew 
that  it  was  a  law  of  heaven  that  Goc' 

\  worked  through  them  on  the  earth,  an  3, 


so  He  told  Saul  to  go  to  Damascus  and 
there  it  would  be  told  him  what  he 
should  do.  Then  one  of  the  servants 
of  the  Lord  who  had  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  which  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy 
received  a  revelation  to  go  to  Saul  and 
tell  him  what  he  should  do. 

These  are  lessons  for  you  and  me,  my 
brethren  and  sisters;  and  let  us  take 
the  mote  out  of  our  own  eye  before 
looking  for  faults  in  others.  It  re- 
minds me  of  what  I  heard  Josh  Billings 
once  say.  He  said  a  friend  of  his  ask- 
ed him  if  he  had  ever  heard  Ingersoll 
on  the  mistakes  of  Moses,  and  he  le- 
plied,  "No,  I  have  not;  but  I  would 
give  S50C  any  day  to  hear  Moses  on  the 
mistakes  of  Ingersoll."  When  you  feel 
like  criticising  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  stand  before  the  mirror  and 
examine  yourself.  A  friend  of  mine 
asked  me  the  other  day  why  we  did 
not  receive  more  revelations  from  God. 
I  took  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  said, 
'Here  is  one;  have  you  read  it?"  He 
acknowledged  he  had  not.  "Here  is 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants;  have  you 
read  that?"  No,  he  had  not.  "Here  is 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price;  have  you 
read  that?"  He  acknowledged  that  he 
had  not  read  it  all.  "Well,'  'said  I, 
"If  I  was  the  Almighty  I  would  not 
say  another  word  to  you  until  you 
made  yourself  acquainted  with  what  I 
had  already  said.' 

'  God  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  children  sang,  "A  Lullaby 
Song,"  and  the  national  song,  "Amer- 
ica," was  sung  by  the  children  and  the 
congregation. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  A.  Mc- 
Rae. 

Conference  adjourned  till  Sunday 
morning  at  10  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  April  8,  10  a.  m. 

Conference  called  to  order  by  Prest. 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "From 
afar,  Gracious  Lord,  thou  hast  gath- 
ered thy  flock." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  An- 
drew Kimball. 

The  Tabernacle  was  excessively 
crowded,  and  it  was  announced  that 
an  overflow  meeting  would  be  held  in 
the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Rouse, 

0  ye  Mortals." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

(President  of  Juarez  Stake.) 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
first  to  express  the  personal  gratituds 

1  feel  towards  my  Heavenly  Father 
this  morning,  that  I  am  worthy  to  be 
accounted  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  that  it  is  my  privilege,  in 
connection  with  you,  to  come  up  here 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord  upon  this 
occasion,  where  we  may  be  taught  of 
His  ways  and  learn  to  walk  in  His 
paths.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony 
to  the  strong  conviction  I  have  felt 
since  this  conference  convened  that  the 
promises  made  by  the  Lord,  and  which 
apply  directly  to  the  Church  of  Christ 
restored  to  the  earth  and  fully  estab- 
lished in  the  dispensation  in  which  we 
live,  are  being  verified,  and  that  those 
promises  which  have  not  yet  been  ful- 
filled will  all  be  accomplished  in  time, 
and  in  the  way  our  Father  in  Heaven 
designs.  The  conviction  I  have  felt  is 
that  no  power  which  may  be  brought 
to  bear  against  the  Church  from  with- 
out, nor  any  dissension  that  may  occur 
within,  will  ever,  from  this  time  forth, 
retard  the  progress  or  development  of 
the  work  of  God.  I  believe  this  because 
the  Lord  has  said  it.  I  believe  it  be- 
cause I  know  that  the  principles  of  the 


Gospel  are  founded  upon  everlasting, 
truth,  and  I  know  that  whatever  effort 
may  be  made  to  overthrow  it,  eventual- 
ly the  truth  must  and  will  prevail,  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  be  vindicated,, 
and  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  will  be  acknowledged  by  the- 
world. 

I  feel  exceedingly  grateful  that  it 
has  been  possible  for  a  large  number  of 
people  to  come  to  this  conference  from 
Mexico,  traveling  2,200  miles  to  get  here. 
There  are  more  than  30  representatives 
here,  who,  by  the  time  they  have  re- 
turned to  their  homes,  will  have  spent 
at  least  $6,000  in  order  to  attend  this 
conference. 

Mexico  is  a  peculiar  country.  It  is 
a  country  of  great  extremes— of  in- 
tense sunshine  and  terrific  showers,  of 
vast  unproductive  plains  and  of  val- 
leys which  are  among  the  most  produc- 
tive in  the  world,  with  great,  ranges  of 
treeless  mountains,  and  plains  that  are 
covered  with  forests  of  most  beautiful 
timber.  It  is  not  strange  that  the  race 
of  people  who  have  inhabited  that  coun- 
try for  hundreds  of  years  have  partak- 
en more  or  less  of  its  characteristics. 
So  the  Mexican  people  are  a  people  of 
extremes,  a  peculiar  people,  different, 
perhaps,  to  any  other  in  the  world. 

During  the  past  six  months  we  have- 
passed  through  some  very  trying  cir- 
cumstances in  the  Juarez  Stake  of 
Zion.  Some  of  our  colonies  have  been 
almost  destroyed  by  flood,  and  great 
damage  has  been  done.  Many  of  the- 
people  have  lost  the  accumulations  of  a 
lifetime.  Notwithstanding  that  whiclt 
the  people  have  suffered  they  are  not 
discouraged,  but  "come  up  smiling," 
determined  to  grapple  with  nature  and 
regain  that  which  has  been  lost.  There 
are  3,871  Latter-day  Saints  in  Mexico, 
according  to  the  last  statistics  we  took. 
These  people  are  scattered  over  a  large 
area  of  country.  They  are  a  poor  peo- 
ple,   but,    notwithstanding   this  (fact, 


46  GENERAL  < 

tthese  3,800  individuals  paid  in  1905, 
$54,100  in  tithing,  or  $13.99  for  each  soul 
in  the  stake.  Mexican  money,  some- 
one suggests.  Yes,  that  would  be  in 
Mexican  silver,  and  would  only  have  .> 
face  value  in  the  United  States  of  50 
cents  on  the  dollar.  But  it  costs  us  just 
as  much  to  get  a  Mexican  dollar  as  :t 
does  you  to  get  a  dollar  in  the  United 
States.  Our  mechanics,  our  laboring 
men,  our  school  teachers,  our  store 
clerks,  receive  no  more  in  Mexican 
money  for  their  month's  work  than  you 
do  here  in  gold. 

Our  relationship  with  the  Mexican 
government  is  of  the  most  harmonious 
character.  Recently,  at  an  official 
■opening  of  our  Stake  Academy, 
which,  by  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  and 
the  assistance  Ave  have  received  from 
our  brethren,  Ave  have  been  able  to 
establish,  a  large  number  of  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Mexican  government 
were  present.  In  fact,  it  was  their  of- 
ficial opening  of  our  school,  and  they 
participated  with  us,  and  encouraged 
us  to  a  degree  that  Ave  could  hardly 
have  expected  in  the  Avork  of  educa- 
tion which  we  are  doing  in  that  coun- 
try. We  have  found  that  these  exam- 
ples of  ours  in  industry,  and  in  estab- 
lishing good  schools  wherein  lessons 
are  given  not  only  to  our  oavii  children 
but  to  theirs  also,  have  done  more  to 
establish  friendly  relations,  and  'to 
gain  their  confidence,  than  anything 
else  that  we  probably  could  have  done. 
A  large  number  of  their  children  are 
in  attendance  at  these  schools.  Just 
before  I  left  home  tAvo  representative 
men  visited  Colonia  Juarez  and  went 
in  to  the  manual  training  department 
of  our  school,  Avhere  they  found  five 
or  six  of  their  oavii  boys,  Avith  their 
coats  off,  at  work  on  the  machines. 
They  were  overcome  Avith  emotion, 
because  they  said  it  Avas  something 
they  had  never  been  able  to  get  them 
to  do  at  home.  The  boys  themselves 
were  enthusiastic  in  their  work  and 
studies. 

The  mission  which  has  been  estab- 
lished in  the  neighborhood  of  the  City 
of  Mexico,  and  Which  is  under  the 
presidency  of  Hyrum   S.   Harris,  is 


NFERENCB. 

progressing  very  favorably;  in  fact,  it 
appears  to  us  that  our  effort  should 
be  to  rather  retard  its  development  a 
little,  until  we  are  better  prepared  to 
take  care  of  the  people,  than  to  en- 
courage and  push  it.  There  is  a  vast 
field  for  missionary  effort  in  Mexico, 
and  undoubtedly  a  greater  one  in  Gen- 
eral America  and  South  America.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  Avhile  you  are 
teaching  French,  German  and  Latin  in 
your  schools,  do  not  forget  that  there 
is  something  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  do  among  the  Spanish-speaking 
people  of  the  world.  There  are  about 
30,0  00,000  Indians  doAvn  south  of  us 
who  speak  the  Spanish  language — peo- 
ple Avhose  forefathers  gave  us  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  In  Cuba,  in  Porto 
Rico,  and  in  Spain  itself,  there  are 
many  millions  of  people  yet  to  hear 
the  Gospel  in  the  Spanish  language,  so 
that  if  you  teach  your  sons  Spanish 
you  may  be  of  assistance  to  us  in  the 
development  of  our  missionary  work  in 
Mexico.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  me  to  bear 
witness  to  the  integrity,  faith,  and  de- 
A'otion  of  your  brethren  arid  sisters 
who  are  in  that  dista,nt  land.  It  is  a 
pleasure  to  me  to  tell  you  that  they 
have  implicit  faith  in  the  promises 
Avhich  have  been  made  by  the  Lord 
to  the  native  people  Avho  live  in  that 
country.  We  believe  that  the  day  is 
come  for  them  to  be  brought  back  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  faith  of  their  fathers, 
and  converted  to  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel,  that  they  may  become  an  ac- 
tive force  and  factor  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  Lord's  AArork. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  Ave  are  en- 
gaged in  the  Lord's  Avork.  This  is 
His  Church,  and  He  will  magnify  it- 
He  will  magnify  us  also  if  Ave  are 
faithful.  He  will  reAvard  us  for  our 
righteous  Avorks.  If  AAre  will  accomplish 
the  part  assigned  to  us  there  can  be 
no  doubt  that  the  Lord  will  accomplish 
that  Avhich  He  has  promised.  But  He 
is  not  going  to  do  it  alone;  He  is  going 
to  do  it  with  labors  of  men  and  women. 
We  live  in  an  age  when  He  has  prom- 
ised, as  He  never  did  before  in  any 
other  Gospel  dispensation,  that  the 
faith  of  the  people  Avould  be  sufficient 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


47 


to  maintain  the  work  of  the  Lord.  He 
has  declared  that  it  is  established  for 
the  last  time,  to  triumph  and  to  pre- 
vail. This  is  a  very  reasonable  thing 
.since  the  Gospel  has  never  been  on  the 
earth  before  in  a  dispensation,  when 
reason,  argument  and  intelligence  ex- 
isted to  such  an  extent  in  the  earth, 
and  when  there  was  the  same  oppor- 
tunity for  it  to  prevail  as  there  is  in 
this  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of 
times.  M 

I  bear  testimony,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  the  good  that  has  come  to 
me  through  obedience  to  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  I  feel  under  great  ob- 
ligations to  my  Heavenly  Father,  and 
it  seems  to  me  that  He  has  more  than 
repaid  me  for  every  act  of  my  life 
which  has  been  devoted  to  His  cause, 
in  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  me 
personally,  in  testimonies,  and  in 
strength  that  I  have  received  in  times 
of  adversity  and  trouble.  I  bear  wit- 
ness to  the  influence  for  good  which  has 
•come  to  me  through  association  with 
the  servants  of  the  Lord.  It  was  my 
good  fortune  to  be  personally  acquaint- 
ed with  President  Young.  I  sat  at  his 
table  when  a  boy,  and  I  feel  to  this 
day  the  influence  upon  my  character 
which  was  made  by  the  presence  and 
the  words  of  that  man.  I  knew  Pres- 
ident John  Taylor  personally,  but  not 
so  intimately,  and  the  same  impres- 
sions came  to  me  through  my  associa- 
tion with  him.  I  knew  President  Wood- 
ruff better  than  any  other  man  who  has 
presided  over  the  Church.  He  lived  in 
my  neighborhood,  I  traveled  with  him, 
and  I  bear  testimony  that  I  was 
strengthened  and  blessed,  and  my  faith 
increased  through  my  association  with 
him.  I  can  say  the  same  regarding 
President  Snow,  and  President  Smith 
who  now  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
Church.  Our  brethren  who  constitute 
the  quorum  of  Apostles  I  have  known, 
have  traveled  with  them,  slept  with 
them,  eaten  with  them,  been  with  them 
in  times  when  both  mental  and  physical 
courage  were  necessary,  and  I  have 
yet  the  first  incident  to  recall  where 
one  of  them  has  ever  failed  under  these 
•circumstances.    They  are  men  of  God, 


acting  in  the  capacity  to  which  they 
have  been  properly  called,  and  He  will 
magnify  and  uphold  them;  and  through 
them,  and  through  us,  and,  above  all. 
by  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  the  truth 
will  eventually  triumph,  and  God's  will 
be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  Heaven. 
May  our  faith  be  increased  and 
strengthened  that  we  may  ad- 
here to  the  truth,  is  my  desire  and 
prayer  through  Jesus  Chiist.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

The  songs  of  Zion  assist  in  religious  train- 
ing.—immensity  of  the  labor  involved 
in  proclaiming  the  Gospel. — Missionary 
success  in  lace  of  great  opposition.— 
Only  imaginary  conversions  result  from 
revivals.— Many  roads  ao  not  lead  to 
Heaven.— The  narrow  way  to  eternal  life 
is  wide  enough  for  all. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  that 
have  been  borne  by  the  brethren  wht. 
have  spoken  in  the  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference which  have  already  passed.  I 
am  very  grateful  for  the  words  spoken 
at  the  opening  of  the  conference  by 
President  Smith,  in  which  he  said  that 
a  period  of  prosperity,  unity  and 
growth  characterized  the  Latter-day 
Saints  during  the  last  six  months.  I  re- 
joice when  I  contemplate  the  great 
work  that  is  being  accomplished  in 
the  earth  for  the  salvation  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  for  their  temporal  and 
spiritual  salvation;  for  the  gospel  con- 
templates the  saving  of  men  both  tem- 
porally and  spiritually,  the  advancing 
of  them  to  higher  planes  in  mortality 
ana  immortality.  I  am  thankful  for 
the  work  that  is  being  done  among  tht- 
children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
tens  of  thousands  of  little  ones,  born 
under  the  covenant,  are  being  instruct 
e-.l  in  the  various  organizations  of  the 
Church  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord.  W(- 
had  an  illustration  yesterday  of  some 
work  which  is  being  done  among  the 
children  by  Brother  Stephens — a  work 
that  is  grand  indeed,  and  the  full  value 
of  which  is  not,  I  suppose,  entirely  un- 
derstood. They  are  learning  to  sing  the 
songs  of  Zion,  and  these  songs  breathe 
the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  and  withir. 
them  is  contained  the  truth.  The  prin- 
ciples and  doctrines  of  the  Church  are 


48 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


very  often  embodied  in  the  hymns 
which  are  sung  by  both  young-  and  old 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints;  and  this, 
together  with  the  instructions  they  re- 
ceive in  the  Religion  Classes,  the  Prl- 
mary  Associations,  the  Sabbath  schools 
and  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tions, will  assist  to  develop  them  into 
men  and  women  thoroughly  indoctrin- 
ated in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and 
make  them  familiar  with  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation.  They  are  on  the 
way  to  making  their  calling  and  elec- 
tion sure.  They  are  in  that  path  which 
is  narrow,  and  their  faces  are  directed 
towards  the  straight  gate  which  leads 
unto  life  eternal.  The  other  organiza- 
tions among  the  adults  or  grown  peo- 
ple likewise  are  doing  a  good  work,  ana 
we  see  in  this  congregation  an  evi- 
dence of  great  faith  in  the  hearts  of  tht- 
people  concerning  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
Our  missionaries  are  laboring  earnestly 
and.  as  we  have  heard,  most  unselfish-, 
ly,  that  the  people  of  the  world  may  be 
taught  the  truth  and  be  brought  to 
a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  that  the> 
may  know  the  truth,  that  they  may 
know  good  from  evil,  that  they  may  in- 
stantly determine  right  from  wrong: 
and  it  is  our  prayer  that  the  people 
may  be  so  moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  that  they  will  receive  this 
word  as  it  is  carried  to  them  by  the 
Elders  of  the  Church.  Last  year  near- 
ly 2.400  men  and  women  were  added 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  by  baptism.  Now,  at  first 
sight  that  does  not  appear  to  be  a  very 
great  work  that  has  been  performed  b> 
the  Elders;  but  that  is  really  only  a 
very  small  part  of  the  work.  They  havt.- 
traversed  tens  of  thousands  of  miles 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  people  in 
their  cities,  towns  and  villages.  They 
have  distributed  among  the  people  of 
the  world  millions  of  tracts  explaining 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  The>, 
have  entered  the  homes  of  many  thou- 
sands who,  prior  to  their  coming,  had 
never  heard  about  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ,  or  of  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times;  and  unto  thest- 
tens  of  thousands,  aye,  and  hundreds  of 
thousands   of  people,   the   Gospel  has 


been  preached,  the  message  has  been1 
carried,  and  the  doctrines  and  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel  have  been  explained, 
I  presume  millions  of  people  in  the  last 
year  have  heard  the  Elders  of  the- 
Church  as  they  have  lifted  their  voice*, 
on  the  street  and  market  places  of  tht, 
populated  districts  of  the  world.  "This- 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preach- 
ed in  all  the  world,  for  a  witness  be- 
fore the  end  shall  come;"  and  this  worn, 
is  being  done.  We  cannot  help  it  if 
many  will  not  accept  the  Gospel.  We- 
acquit  ourselves  of  the  obligation  and' 
the  responsibility  God  has  placed  up- 
on us  when  we  cry  repentance  unto 
the  children  of  men.  They  then  are- 
left  to  themselves,  to  obey  or  reject  as 
they  will,  and  they  will  receive  the 
consequence  of  disobedience  or  re- 
wards of  obedience  to  the  word.-  of 
divinity  thus  spoken.  Nevertheless, 
2,400  intelligent  men  and  women  con- 
verted by  these  teachings,  and  baptized 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
their  sins  by  authorized  servants  of 
God  is,  after  all,  under  the  circum- 
stances, a  marvelous  work.  They 
have  not  been  converted  by  methods 
of  revivalism.  I  presume  in  the  ma- 
jority of  cases  it  has  taken  weeks  and 
months,  and  perhaps  years,  to  convert 
some  of  those  who  were  baptized. 
Conversion  from  a  condition  of  sin  and 
unbelief  to  one  of  understanding  and 
faith  is  not  brought  about  instantane- 
ously. We"  were  told  yesterday  that 
upon  hearing  the  Gospel  some  in- 
dividuals were  convinced  of  its  truth 
and  immediately  made  application  for 
baptism;  but  if  these  cases  were  ex- 
amined, we  would  find  they  compare 
very  nearly  with  that  instance  of  the 
conversion  of  Cornelius,  also  mention- 
ed yesterday.  They  are  men  and  wo- 
men who  have  for  some  time,  perhaps 
years,  been  dissatisfied  with  what  the 
world  offered  them  as  the  Gospel. 
They  are  people  that  have  been  seek- 
ing the  truth,  looking  for  light,  who 
have  been  praying  unto  God  for  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  thereby 
have  prepared  themselves  for  the  mes- 
sage when  they  heard  it,  and  are  ready 
to  rceive  it  immediately  upon  hearing 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


49 


jt,  and  desire  baptism.     Usually  we 
go  among  the  people  who  are  Chris- 
tians who  do  believe  or  profess  to  be- 
lieve, and  that  honestly,  in  God  and  in 
the  saving  and  redeeming  powers  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  and  when  we 
go  among  them,  and  they  hear  for  the 
first  time  that  they  are  after  all  prob- 
ably mistaken  in  the  faith  they  have 
chosen,  and  in  which  they  have  been 
reared,  it  has  a  tremendous  effect,  it  is 
a  revolution,  and  it  takes  time,  much 
time,  for  them  to  become  convinced. 
It  takes  prayer,  it  takes  instr;uctisji, 
and  much  labor  on  the  part  of  the 
teachers  of  the  Gospel  to  show  these 
individuals  that  they  have  been  in  er- 
ror, and  that  their  religious  advisers 
have  also  been  in  error,  and  to  con- 
vince them   of  the  truth   which  is 
brought  to  them  by  the  true  shepherds 
of  Jesus   Christ.      Consequently,  the 
conversion   of   these   people   has  re- 
quired much  labor,  and  earnest,  pray- 
erful work  on  the  part  of  the  servants 
of  the  Lord.    When  you  come  to  think 
of  it,  2,400  people  are  more  than  are 
contained  in  some  towns  and  villages 
in  the  State  of  Utah  or  other  states. 
Again,  when  you  consider  that  these 
conversions  have  been  made  when  the 
whole  kingdom  of  the  devil  has  been 
arrayed  against  the  servants  of  God,  it 
is  all  the  more  remarkable.  When  you 
consider  that  from  thousands  of  pulpits 
throughout  the  civilized  or  Christian 
world  so-called  ministers  of  the  Gos- 
pel have  warned  the  people  against 
the  Elders  of.  the  Church  of  Christ  and 
also  that  the  editors     of  influential 
newspapers    throughout     the  whole 
country  have  filled  the  world,   as  it 
were,  with  falsehoods  and  lies,  delug- 
ing the  people  with  false  ideas  con- 
cerning the  "Mormons,"  and  warning 
all  mankind  to  beware  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" Elders,  it  is  marvelous  in  our 
eyes.    In  spite  of  all  this,  in  spite  of 
regularly      organized      societies  and 
leagues  brought  into  existence  for  the 
purpose   of  fighting   the   Elders  and 
putting  stumbling  blocks  in  their  way, 
and  biasing  the  minds  of  the  - people, 
filling  them  with  prejudice  against  the 
truth — it  is  a  remarkable  thing,  my 


brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Elders 
have  been  able  to  reach  the  ears  of 
intelligent    men   and   women   to  the 
number  of  thousands  who  have  been 
converted,    and    tens    of  thousands 
who  are  to  a  greater  or  less  degree 
investigating  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.     When  you  think  too 
that  governors  of  states  and  mayors  of 
cities  have  joined  the  enemy  and  ban- 
ished the  Elders  from  certain  locali- 
ties; when  ministers,  as  we  heard  yes- 
terday, have  incited  the  populace  to 
mob  violence,  whipping  of  the  Elders, 
burning   meeting   houses,  threatening 
those  who  even  listen  to  them  with  the 
destruction  of  their  homes  and  perhaps 
the  sacrifice  of  their  lives,  the  wonder 
increases.    But  it  is  God's  work.  The 
Elders    are    His  servants.     They  are 
divinely  called.    They  are  also  divine- 
ly clothed  upon    by    the  Holy  Ghost. 
Though  the  whole  nether  world,  with 
all  the  powers  of  hell  and  earth,  shal^ 
oppose,    they   cannot   prevail  against 
God  or  His  servants.    It  only  requires 
a  little  thinking,  a  little  prayer,  a  lit- 
tle charity,  the  exercise  of  a  little  com- 
mon sense  on  the  part  of  intelligent 
men    and    women,   just   a  moment's 
pause      to    consider    carefully  and 
thoughtfully  the  message  brought  to 
them,  and  the  lives  and  conduct  of  the 
messengers  who  bring  it,  and  compare 
these  with  the  character  and  conduct 
of  those  who  are  fighting  the  work  of 
God,  to  convince  them  of  the  truth. 

The  Lord's  work  is  going  on.  We 
read  from  time  to  time  statistics  from 
the  various  denominations  of  Christen- 
dom, giving  the  numbers  of  thousanas 
who  have  been  converted  to  Christian- 
ity within  certain  periods;  and  if  one- 
takes  the  trouble  to  investigate  he 
may  find  that  year  after  year  the 
same  thousands  are  converted  over  an.I 
over  again  and  called  converts  to 
Christianity.  The  Christian  world 
hold  what  they  call  revival  meetings, 
.at  which  the  people  gather  in  largs 
numbers — the  Christian  people  who 
have  wandered  away,  who  are  given 
more  or  less  to  sin,  and  who  have  been 
only  slightly  interested  in  reiigion. 
Their  time  and  attention  have  been  oc- 
cupied in  worldly  pursuits.    They  hear 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men  preach  to  them  the  Gospel,  with 
great  fervor  and  eloquence,  and  they 
are  moved  upon,  they  are  touched,  they 
see  their  sinful  lives;  and,  either  with 
the  hope  to  escape  the  terrors  of  ever- 
lasting fire  in  hell,  or  to  receive  here- 
after the  glorious  and  indolent  rest  of 
the  "Christian"  heaven,  they  are  prone 
to  repent  for  the  time  being,  and  are 
added  to  the  church.     A  week  after 
they  are  where  they  were  before  they 
were  "converted,"  and  it  requires  an- 
other revival  meeting  after  awhile  to 
again  stir  them  up  to  repentance  and 
faith.    Not  so  with  those  who  are  con- 
verted to  the  Gospel  of  Christ.    As  I 
have  said,  the  transition  from  wicked- 
ness and  from  worldly  love  to  that  of 
self-sacrifice,  and  faith  in  God.  and 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  has  never  been  ac- 
complished instantaneously.    But  these 
with  whom  we  have  labored  long  and 
diligently,  have   prepared  themselves, 
and  they  are  secure.    They  have  a  liv- 
ing faith,  a  faith    accompanied  with 
good  works,  and  we  can  depend  upon 
them— most  of  them,  at  least.  There 
may  be  some  even  after  all  that  ef- 
fort in  their  behalf  who  will  fall  away; 
that  is  sometimes  the  case.    So  like- 
wise,   my    brethren   and    sisters,  the 
transition    from    obedience    to  truth, 
from  a  condition  of  faith  in  God,  from 
good,  virtuous,  honorable,  upright  lives, 
to  that  of  sin,  apostasy  and  wicked- 
ness, is  never  instantaneous.    No  man 
who  today  is  in  full  fellowship  in  the 
Church,  who  is  receiving  the  approba- 
tion of  God,  and  has  the  witness  of  the 
truth  in  his  heart,  who  is  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,   who  is 
faithful,    pure,    virtuous    and  chaste, 
will    tomorrow    be  cut   off   from  the 
Church  for  adultery,  for  apostasy,  or 
for  wickedness  and  corruption.    I  have 
never  known  such  a  case;  changes  of 
this  kind  are  brought  about  gradually, 
and  take  time. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you 
are  acquainted  with  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  you  know  the  doctrines  of 
the  Church,  you  understand  the 
principles  of  life  and  salva- 
tion,      you       know       what  the 


Lord  has  commanded  us  to  do  and  not 
to  do,  therefore,  we  say  unto  you,  fol- 
low this  knowledge,  and  be  guided  by 
faith  and  prayer.      Keep  yourselves 
pure,  and  in  the  line  of  duty,  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  way  which  leadeth 
to  life  eternal.     Avoid  that  broad  way 
and  wide  gate  which  leadeth  to  de- 
struction.    It  is  all  well  and  good,  and 
I  presume  enticing  to  some,  to  listen 
to  discourses  on  the  forks  of  the  road, 
and  to  be  told  to  take  either  route  you 
please,    wander  through     the  sweet 
scented  woods  and  follow  its  meander- 
ings  along  the  beautiful  streams  and 
pleasant  meadows,   and  you  will  get 
to  heaven  after  all  in  the  end.  That 
is  all  pretty  enough  to  some,  but  to 
those  who  understand  the  truth  it  Is 
hideous,  because  it  is  not  the  fact;  it 
is  false,  and  not  true.     Well  enough  to 
talk  about  some  of  our  winding  and 
"meandering"  country  roads;  but  the 
man  who   sets  his  foot  on  the  road 
that  "meanders"  towards  London  will 
have  to  right  about  face  absolutely  if 
he  wishes  to  go  to  Carlisle  or  Glas- 
gow.     There  is  but  one  way  of  life 
and  salvation;  and  it  is  nonsen.se  for 
men  to  take  as  text  "I  am  the  way, 
the  truth,  and  the  life,"  and  then,  be- 
fore they  have  finished,  declare  to  the 
world  that  they  may  go  their  own  way, 
suit  their  own  inclination,  follow  any 
road  they  will,  for  so  great  is  the  love 
of  God  and  the  mercy  of  Jesus  Christ 
that  He  Avill  save  them  in  the  end. 
"Bread  is   the  way  and  wide  is  the 
gate  which  leadeth  to  destruction,  and 
rr.airy  there  be  who  go  in  thereat,  be- 
cause straight  is  the  gate  and  narrow 
is  the  way  which  leadeth    to  life,  and 
few  there  be  that  find  it."     And  why 
is  it  that  few  find  it?     It  is  because 
men  preach  these  false  doctrines  of 
"meandering"  roads  and  give  to  man- 
kind their  choice  of  a  number  of  paths. 
They  say  you  may  follow  the  roads 
which  lead  through  the  sweet  scented 
woods  of  sin;  you  may  follow  that  road 
which   parallels   the  enticing  streams 
of  vice  and  corruption;  you  may  walk 
through  the  meadows  of  your  own  per- 
nicious inclinations,  if  you  will,  and 
aftev  all,  the  love  of  God  will  save 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


51 


you;  for,  "He  so  loved  the  world  that 
He  gave  His  Only  Begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  should  believe  on  Him 
should  not  perish,  hut  have  everlast- 
ing life."  But  they  neglect  to  add, 
"I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life; 
and  no  man  cometh  to  the  Father  hut 
toy  me."  Because  of  such  teachings 
as  this,  men  go  astray;  they  imagine 
to  themselves  that  they  are  secure  in 
following  after  their  own  wills,  and 
they  forget  that  they  must  do  the  will 
of  God  to  be  saved.  They  forget  that 
"he  that  goeth  not  in  at  the  door  of 
the  sheepfold,  but  seeketh  to  climb  up 
some  other  way,  is  a  thief  and  a  rob- 
ber." It  may  be  said  that  this  kind 
•of  doctrine  preached  from  the  pulpits 
is  a  broadminded  doctrine;  it  embraces 
the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brother- 
hood of  man.  People  have  made  catch 
phrases  of  the  fatherhood  of  God  and 
brotherhood  of  man.  The  Apostle 
John  said  of  the  Savior,  "He  came  un- 
to His  own,  and  His  own  received  Him 
not;  but  to  as  many  as  received  Him, 
to  them  gave  He  power  to  become  the 
sons  of  God" — not  to  those  who  did 
not  receive  Him.  The  Savior  told  some 
of  the  people  at  one  time  that  they  were 
■children  of  their  father  the  devil,  who 
was  the  father  of  lies.  "Why?  Because 
they  would  not  receive  Christ,  but 
rather  received  the  evil  and  preferred 
a  refuge  of  lies.  Now  then,  if  that  is 
broadmindedness,  it  is  the  broadmind- 
edness  of  the  broad  way,  and  men  in 
that  broad  way  may  meander,  and  cir- 
cle, and  waltz  as  they  please,  but  they 
will  never  find  the  straight  gate,  but 
will  enter  the  wide  gates  to  destruc- 
tion. If  it  is  narrowminded  to  say 
that  "straight  is  the  gate  and  narrow 
is  the  way  that  leadeth  unto  life,  and 
few  there  be  that  find  it,"  it  is  not  my 
narrowness,  but  it  is  the  narrowness 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  But  what  about  this  narrow 
way?  "Why,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
wide  enough  to  contain  the  whole 
world,  if  the  people  of  the  world  would 
but  enter  it  and  march  forward  with 
their  attention  set  upon  the  gate  which 
is  straight.  They  could  walk  many 
thousands  abreast,  too,  without  difficul- 


ty. It  is  the  path  of  duty,  and  6?  obe- 
dience to  the  things  the  Savior  taught, 
for  He  said: 

"Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of 
mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him 
unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house 
upon  a  rock: 

"And  the  rains  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not: 
for,  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  everyone  that  heareth  these  say- 
ings of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rains  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

It  is  folly  to  suppose  that  you  can 
gain  a  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God 
while  you  are  breaking  the  command- 
ments of  God.  It  is  folly  to  suppose 
that  the  broad  way,  and  those  roads 
that  meander  and  curve,  and  turn  away 
from  the  straight  and  narrow  path  will 
lead  to  that  gate  which  entereth  into 
life.  You  Latter-day  Saints  under- 
stand this.  These  are  the  things  we 
are  trying  to  convince  the  world  of. 
"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved,"  are  the  words  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  must  be  added 
to  those  other  sayings  of  His,  viz.  that 
"God  so  loved  the  world  that  He  gave 
His  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  whosoever 
should  believe  on  Him  should  have  eter- 
nal life,"  etc.  We  must  take  all  the 
words  of  the  Savior;  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God, 
follow  in  the  paths  of  truth,  and  keep 
the  Lord's  commandments;  then  there 
will  be  salvation  for  us. 

The  condition  of  the  world  today  is 
very  much  like  that  described  by  Paul 
when  he  wrote  the  "time  would  come 
when  they  would  not  endure  sound  doc- 
trine, but  after  their  own  lusts  would 
they  heap  to  themselves  teachers,  hav- 
ing itching  ears,  who  would  turn  their 
ears  away  from  the  truth  and  unto  fa- 
bles." Such  doctrines  as  that  about 
many  roads  may  on  the  face  of  them 
appear  broadminded  and  liberal,  but 
they  are  fables,  and  their  followers  will 
go  to  destruction  unless  they  repent. 

Again  Paul  wrote: 


52  ELDER  GEORGE 

"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  :-hall  be  lovers  of  their  own 
selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parienjts, 
unthankful,  unholy, 

"Without  natural  affection,  truce- 
breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded, lovers  of 
pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  God; 

"Having  a  form  of  Godliness,  but  de- 
nying the  power  thereof:  from  such 
turn  away. 

"Ifor  of  ithis  sort  axe  Jlhey  which;  |creep 
into  houses,  and  lead  captive  silly  wo- 
men laden  with  sins,  led  away  with 
divers  lusts." 

A  better  description  of  the  present 
condition  of  the  world  could  scarcely  be 
written.  Whether  or  not  this  predic- 
tion bad  reference  to  a  former  or  a 
latter  day,  Ave  see  a  remarkable  ful- 
fillment of  it  in  out  own  time.  There 
are  many  who  answer  well  this  descrip- 
tion, and  it.  is  this  sort  of  men  who 
have  been  prominent  in  persecuting  the 
Saints,  and  who,  in  the  last  year  or 
two,  have  crept  into  houses  and  led 
captive  several  millions  of  silly  women. 

"But  evil  men  and  seducers  shall  wax 
worse  and  worse,  deceiving,  and  being 
deceived." 

My  brethren  and  sisters  the  kingdom 
of  God  will  triumph  in  spite  of  it^  all. 
Therefore,  follow  in  the  way  of  life; 
follow  the  directions  of  the  servants  of 
God;  keep  your  feet  in  the  straight 
way,  and  you  shall  be  saved,  and  the 
world  cannot  prevent  it.  At  the  same 
time  do  your  best  to  persuade,  by  love, 
kindness,  consideration  and  instruction, 
all  men  to  enter  with  you.  God  bless 
the  Saints,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Anion. 

A  tenor  solo,  "He  Leadeth  Me,"  was 
sung  by  Elder  Wm.  D.  Phillips  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 

The  duty  of  sustaining-  home  industries 
and  home  institutions.— Incidents  of  the 
journey  to  Vermont  and  return  —Re- 
markable interest  and  kindness  mani- 
fest to  President  Smith  and  party.— 
Providential  help  in  overcoming  obsta- 
cles in  erection  of  monument.— The  fin- 
ished structure  a  credit  to  the  Church 
and  to  Junius  P.  Wells. 

I  desire  that  while  I  occupy  this  posi- 
tion this  morning  I  may  have  the  bene., 
fit  of  the  same  kind  attention  you  have 


ALBERT  SMITH. 

given  to     previous  speakers,  and  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  present 
with   me,   that   what   I   say  may  be 
profitable,  that  we  may  all  be  benefited 
and  continue  to  enjoy  the  blessings  that 
have     been     poured     out     upon  us 
during     this     conference.       This  is 
the    greatest    gathering    of  the  Lat- 
ter-day    Saints     upon     a  Sabbath 
morning     that     it     has     been  my 
privilege  to  witness.    The  necessity  for 
an  overflow  meeting  this  morning  evi. 
dences  that  the  people  are  interested, 
and  desire  to  be  present  when  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  are  called  upon  to  in- 
struct them.    I  am  pleased  to  observe 
the  cheerful  manner  in  which  the  sug- 
gestion of  President  Smith  has  been 
complied  with.    It  is  customary  for  us, 
when  instruction  is  given,  to  think  that 
that  instruction  was  meant  for  some- 
body else,  but  I  noticed  that  the  people 
who  are  sitting  concluded  that  Presi- 
dent   Smith's   advice    was   meant  for 
them,  and  they  have  moved  closer  to- 
gether, and  some  have  changed  places 
with  those  who  were  standing  in  the 
aisles.    I  say  it  pleases  me,  because  i 
realize  that  we  took  the  instruction  to 
heart  ourselves.    If  we  will  do  that  in 
all  the  discourses  that  are  delivered, 
and  keep  our  ears  open  for  the  sound 
of  those  truths  which  are  declared  un- 
to us,  we  will  be  likely  to  conform  our 
lives  to  the  Gospel,   correct  mistakes 
we   have   already   made,    and   try  to 
do  better.    If  we  conclude  that  the  in- 
struction is  meant  only  for  somebody 
else,  we  are  liable  to  continue  in  the 
same  old  way  to  the  end  of  our  days, 
and  discover  when  it  is  too  late  that 
the  advice  was  for  us  as  well  as  for  the 
other  person. 

I  desire  to  emphasize  an  assertion 
that  has  been  made  during  this  confer- 
ence, that  the  home  industries  in  this 
state  have  languished;  this  applied  tc 
all  of  us.  The  disposition  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  toward  home  industries  has 
changed  somewhat.  To  a  certain  degree 
we  are  responsible  for  the  lack  of  em- 
ployment that  exists  in  some  of  our 
communities.  Let  us  remedy  this,  and 
try  to  patronize  home  institutions  more 
fully.  We  should  purchase  home  manu.. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


53 


factured  products,  for,  when  we  do 
that,  the  means  we  pay  out  does  not  go 
to  some  distant  land  but  is  retained  in 
our  own  community.  In  this  way  we 
may  largely  become  independent  and 
self-supporting.  It  should  be  our  rule 
when  we  go  to  the  store  to  inquire  for 
and  purchase  articles  that  are  manu- 
factured or  produced  at  home.  Teach 
this  to  our  families,  and  in  that  way 
we  will  assist  in  providing  our  own  peo- 
ple with  employment,  build  up  the 
country,  and  encourage  those  who  live 
among  us  to  invest  their  money  in  en- 
terprises in  our  own  community. 

I  believe  it  may  be  interesting  to  this 
great  congregation  if  I  shall  detail  t<* 
you  some  of  the  circumstances  connect- 
ed with  the  recent  visit  made  by  Presi- 
dent Smith  and  a  number  of  members 
of  the  Church,  to  the  state  of  Vermont, 
where  a  beautiful  monument  was  dedi- 
cated to  the  memory  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith. 

On  the  18th  day  of  December  last  there 
left  this  city,  in  a  private  car,  30  souls, 
29  of  whom  had  been  invited  by  Presi- 
dent Smith  to  accompany  him  to  the 
dedication  of  the  monument.  I  desire 
to  say  that  we  all,  including  President 
Smith,  paid  our  own  expenses.  I  have 
heard  that  some  people  were  fearful  we 
had  received  some  special  favor  from 
the  tithing  fund  of  the  Church.  I  had 
■charge  of  the  finances  and  the  business 
management  of  that  party,  I  therefor 
know  what  I  am  talking  about.  Not 
many  Latter-day  Saints  have  felt  sus- 
picious about  this  matter,  but  some 
who  do  not  pay  tithing  seem  unduly 
anxious  for  fear  someone  else  shall 
■benefit  by  the  tithes  other  people  pay. 

By  the  kindness  of  the  railroad  com- 
panies, the  car  in  which  we  journeyed 
was  taken  from  place  to  place  with 
great  rapidity  and  without  unnecessary 
delay.  All  along  the  road,  from  the 
time  we  left  the  depot  at  Salt  Lake. 
City  until  we  arrived  at  South  Royal- 
ton,  Vermont,  the  railroad  officials 
looked  after  the  welfare  of  the  party, 
and  many  general  officers  of  the  vari- 
ous railroads  came  aboard  to  see  that 
every  possible  convenience  and  comfort 
were  proviided.   "We  arrived  at  our  des- 


tination without  difficulty,  after  a 
splendid  journey  across  the  contineni. 
It  was  a  great  change  for  some  mem- 
bers of  our  party,  who  had  crossed  the 
plains  in  early  days  with  ox  teams, 
and  some  with  hand-carts,  when  it  was 
dangerous  to  travel  because  of  the  In- 
dians. Some  had  known  the  privations 
and  difficulties  of  frontier  life,  having 
wended  their  way  to  this  country  dur- 
ing the  pioneer  peopling  of  the  valleys. 
Now  they  were  permitted  to  go  over 
the  same  route  on  a  great  railroad,  in 
a  palatial  car,  with  all  the  comforts 
and  conveniences  that  could  be  furnish- 
ed. 

We  had  beautiful  weather  while  going 
to  our  destination,  until  the  evening  of 
the  21st,  when  we  encountered  snow, 
the  first   we   had  seen  since  leaving 
home.    We  arrived  at  South  Royalton, 
the  railroad  station  at  which  we  went 
to  leave  the  train,  on  the  morning  of 
the  22nd.    There  we  found  that  about 
five  or  six  inches  of  snow  had  fallen 
during  the  night,  and  this  provided  ex- 
cellent sleighing  for  the  party,  most 
of  whom  went  to  Tunbridge,  which  was 
the  home  of  the  grandfather  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    We  examined 
the  town  records  there,  and  were  treat- 
ed  with  kindness  by  the  people.  I 
should  have  stated  that,  on  arrival  at 
South  Royalton  we  were  met  by  Elder 
Junius  P.  Wells,  who  had    been  in 
charge  of  the  construction  of  the  mon- 
ument, and  found  that  he  had  made  all 
necessary  arrangements  for  us  at  that 
end  of  the  line.    The  people  of  South 
Royalton  were  waiting  to  make  us  wel- 
come;  they  had  decorated,  festooned, 
and  seated  a  comfortable  hall,  where 
we      held      meetings      and  gather- 
ings and  became  acquainted  with  the 
people.      We    appreciated      all  this, 
and  every  member  of  the  party  was 
made  to  feel  that  we  were  in  the  hands 
of  friends.    President  Smith  and  asso- 
ciate leaders  were  especially  sought  af- 
ter and  received  most  kindly  welcome 
on  every  hand. 

It  was  a  singular  thing  that  last  sea- 
son practically  no  snow  had  fallen  in 
that  section  up  to  that  time;  the  wea- 
ther had  been  pleasant  and  mild.  To 


54 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


my  mind  it  was  an  evidence  of  the 
blessing  of  our  Heavenly  Father  on  the 
erection  of  the  monument  to  the  mem- 
ory of  the  man  He  chose  to  open  this 
latter-day  dispensation.  On  the  after- 
noon of  the  22nd,  we  met  about  thirty 
members  of  the  Church,  who  had  come 
from  New  York  and  Boston  to  partici- 
pate in  the  dedicatory  services.  These 
visitors,  with  the  company  from  Utah, 
and  residents  of  South  Royalton,  as- 
sembled in  the  evening  and  were  agree- 
ably entertained  by  some  of  Zion's 
sweet  singers,  including  Lulu  Gates, 
Robert  Easton  and  Ellen  Thomas. 

On  the  morning  of  the  23rd  of  Decem- 
ber, the  100th  anniversary  of  the  birth 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
the  people  of  the  surrounding 
country  began  to  gather  at  the 
South  Royalton  hotel,  where  mem- 
bers of  the  party  were  stopping.  Be- 
cause of  the  thaw  on  the  night  of  the 
22nd,  the  snow  had  largely  disappeared, 
and  the  result  was  that  the  people 
brought  conveyances  of  various  kinds- 
sleighs,  wagons  and  carriages.  We 
were  informed  by  Brother  Wells  that 
these  vehicles  were  furnished  gratis  by 
the  citizens,  to  convey  the  Utah  party 
and  friends  to  the  site  of  the  monu- 
ment. We  were  duly  seated  in  the 
carriages,  etc.,  and  safely  reached  the 
place  Avhere  the  dedicatory  services 
were  to  be  held.  Arriving  there,  we 
beheld  a  beautiful  monument  and  a 
lovely  cottage.  We  were  astonished  to 
see  what  had  been  wrought  within  the 
short  time  that  had  elapsed  since 
Brother  Wells  had  gone  down  there  to 
supervise  the  work.  The  Church  had 
purchased  about  80  acres  of  the  land 
surrounding  the  birthplace  of  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith,  including  the  or- 
chard, the  old  cellar,  and  the  hearth- 
stone of  the  home  in  which  he  was 
born.  We  found  there  had  been  built 
around  and  over  the  hearthstone, 
which  retained  the  original  place  it  had 
formerly  occupied,  a  beautiful  home, 
where  will  reside  a  care-taker  of  the 
property  and  of  the  monument.  A  pe- 
culiar feeling  and  influence  came  over  us 
as  we  realized  that  we  were  standing 
on  the  ground  where  the  Prophet  first 


beheld  the  light;  an  event  that  we  may- 
say,  marks  the  beginning  of  "Mormon- 
ism;"  and  that  this  location  is  now  the 
property  o£  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Our  tears  flowed 
freely,  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit 
every  soul  was  humbled,  every  heart 
was  melted,  and  we  rejoiced  in  the 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  people  began  to  gather,  coming  in 
wagons,  or  on  horseback,  or  walking, 
until  several  hundred  had  assembled. 
The  house  would  not  hold  them,  so 
overflow  services  were  held  outside, 
while  the  dedicatory  services  that  had 
been  arranged  for  were  being  conduct- 
ed in  the  house.  The  people  rejoiced 
with  us.  They  had  appointed  one  of 
their  number,  Dr.  Fish,  to  speak  words 
of  welcome,  and  he  complimented  the 
people  of  Utah,  and  the  Church,  for 
having  completed  in  their  locality  a 
monument  of  such  exquisite  beauty. 
They  were  delighted  and  pleased,  and 
desired  us  to  understand  that  they 
would  assist  in  protecting  the  property 
from  vandalism,  and  that  it  would  be 
safe  in  their  community.  He  said  they 
honored  us  for  the  work  that  had  been 
done.  Brother  Junius  F.  Wells  made  a 
report  of  his  labors  during  the  course 
of  the  meeting.  While  he  addressed  us 
we  were  gladdened  in  our  hearts  to  ob- 
serve that  he  had  warmed  the  feelings 
of  that  community  towards  him,  and 
won  their  love  and  respect;  they  seemed 
to  look  upon  him  almost  as  one  of  their 
own.  An  account  of  the  services  has 
already  been  published,  including  the 
dedicatory  prayer,  and  almost  every 
thing  pertaining  to  the  occasion,  but  I 
will  refer  to  some  incidents  that  have 
not  been  printed,  at  least  I  have  not 
seen  them  in  print. 

Many  people  do  not  understand  what 
a  great  task  it  was  to  get  this  monu- 
ment in  position.  The  shaft  itself 
weighs  somewhere  near  forty-three 
tons.  It  is  erected  upon  high  ground, 
and  had  to  be  carried  five  and  a  half 
miles  from  the  railroad  upon  a  specially 
prepared  wagon,  the  wagon  weighing 
eight  tons,  the  tires  of  the  wheels  being 
twenty  inches  wide.  The  country  road 
could  not  bear  the  great  weight  of  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


55 


immense  blocks  of  stone  of  which  the 
monument  is  constructed,  and  a  track 
of  oak  planks  was  laid  upon  the  ground 
and  the  big  wagon  was  rolled  upon 
that.  When  the  first  effort  was  made 
to  haul  it,  twenty  of  the  best  horses  in 
that  country  could  not  move  the  wa- 
gon. Afterwards,  by  means  of  block 
and  tackle,  it  was  successfully  moved, 
although  sometimes  only  a  few  yards, 
or  a  few  rods  a  day,  until  the  monu- 
ment was  gradually  taken  to  its  desti- 
nation. The  people  of  that  country 
said  to  Brother  Wells,  "You  will  not 
be  able  to  get  it  into  position  because 
of  storms  and  snow;  the  roads  will  be 
so  slippery  that  you  cannot. haul  it." 
Brother  Wells  said  to  them  (evidencing 
the  faith  of  his  lineage)  "We  will  get 
there,  the  Lord  will  open  the  way."  So 
the  storms  held  off  until  the  monument 
was  in  place,  the  cottage  roofed,  and 
the  doors  and  windows  roughed  in,  then 
it  began  to  snow.  The  people  of  that 
country  refer  to  this  two  months  of 
pleasant  weather,  at  a  time  when  or- 
dinarily they  have  snow,  as  Wells'  wea- 
ther, in  compliment  to  the  man  who  had 
faith  in  our  Heavenly  Father  in  carry- 
ing: out  the  purpose  undertaken.  An- 
other thing  was  called  to  our  attention, 
which  interested  those  who  lived  there, 
the  railroad  men  were  afraid  to  carry 
the  heavy  stone  across  the  railroad 
bridge  over  White  river,  so  it  was  un- 
loaded from  the  railroad  car  onto  the 
wagon.and  then  it  was  found  the  wagon 
bridge  would  have  to  be  strengthened. 
Investigation  showed  that  the  bed  of 
the  stream  was  quicksand.  Brother 
Wells,  therefore,  had  planks  placed  on 
the  quicksand  to  sustain  the 
heavy  timbers  required  to  strength- 
en the  bridge,  and  by  that 
means  they  were  able  to  accom- 
plish what  they  desired.  Thus  roads 
and  bridges  were  made,  and  the  people 
cheerfully  assisted  in  the  work.  The 
block  and  tackle  referred  to  had  to  be 
fastened  to  trees  along  the  road  and 
those  who  lived  in  that  section  per- 
mitted their  trees  to  be  used  for  that 
purpose,  although  it  either  barked  or 
uprooted  them.  One  place  on  the  road 
was  an  especially  bad  obstacle;  it  was 


very  marshy;  and  Brother  Wells  went 
to  the  Road  Supervisor  and  asked  if 
he  could  have  it  filled  up.  He  smiling- 
ly replied  that  it  was  a  noted  land- 
mark in  the  country,  and  it  would  be 
impossible  to  fix  it,  the  oldest  inhab- 
itant unpleasantly  remembers  that  dis- 
agreeable mudhole,  "but,"  he  said,  "it 
is  the  only  way  you  can  go,  and  I  am 
afraid  we  can  not  do  anything  to  help 
you."  The  same  evening  they  got 
there  with  the  monument  shaft,  a  hay- 
press  sunk  in  the  mire,  and  they  could 
scarcely  get  it  out.  That  night  our 
Heavenly  Father  was  petitioned  to  as- 
sist, for  the  great  rock  had  to  be  taken, 
over  that  bog  next  day.  During  the 
night  the  temperature  dropped  30  de- 
grees, the  mud  was  frozen  solid,  and 
it  proved  to  be  about  the  best  piece  of 
road  they  encounered  on  the  trip. 

After  the  dedication  services,  which 
were  attended  by  people  who  mani- 
fested great  interest,  considerable  lit- 
erature was  distributed  to  those  who 
seemed  anxious  to  learn  something 
about  Mormonism.  A  meeting  was 
held  in  the  hall  that  had  been  pre- 
pared, on  the  night  of  the  23rd.  Many 
gathered  in  from  the  surrounding 
towns  and  settlements,  and  we  had  a 
delightful  time.  The  brethren  pro- 
claimed the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ; 
told  why  we  believed  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  and 
testified  to  the  divinity  of  his  mission, 
and  to  the  authenticity  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  After  the  meeting  the  people 
remained  to  shake  hands  and  ask  ques- 
tions. We  felt  again  that  we  were 
in  the  society  of  friends. 

The  monument  stands  in  a  beautiful 
location.  The  newspapers  of  that  sec- 
tion made  the  statement  that  it  is  the 
greatest  structure  of  its  kind  in  the 
state  of  Vermont;  indeed,  it  is  the 
largest  polished  shaft  in  America,  and 
is  characteristic  of  almost  everything 
else  in  the  way  of  building  that  has 
been  done  by  the  Church  since  its  or- 
ganization. 

On   Sunday,   the   24th,   we   went  to  - 
Boston,  where  two  meetings  were  held 
with  the  Saints.     On  Christmas  day  we 
visited  the  old  home  of  Robert  Smith, 


56 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  first  ancestor  of  the  Smith  family 
in  this  country.     We  drank  water  out 
of  the  well  that  was,  no  douht,  dug  by 
iis  own  hands  or  by  his  family.  We 
visited  the  home  of  Grandfather  Asael 
Smith,  who  moved  from  the  state  of 
Massachusetts   to   the  state   of  Ver- 
mont because  he  had  been  imprisoned 
and  fined  for  entertaining  the  unpopu- 
lar Quakers,  evidencing  the  disposition 
■of  the  man   to  do  what  he  believed 
was  right  regardless  of  popular  clamor. 
The  records  disclosed  that  Grandfather 
Smith  was  the  first  moderator  of  the 
TJniversalists'   church  in  the  town  of 
Tunbridge.     President  Joseph  P.  Smith 
and  some  other  members  of  the  party 
were  entertained  in  the  home  of  one  of 
the  foremost  men  of  the  Universalists' 
Church  in  America,  and  ate  Christmas 
dinner  with  him. 

We  boarded  the  train  on  Christmas 
night  and  were  taken  westward.  On 
the  morning  of  the  26th,  we  arrived  at 
the  little  station  of  Palmyra.  There 
we  found  carriages  awaiting  us,  and 
we  began  a  tour,  of  that  section  of  the 
country,  visiting  places  of  much  inter- 
est to  the  Latter-day  Saints.     We  went 
tc  the  former  home  of  the  father  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph   Smith,   where  Joseph 
came  with  the  plates  after  he  had  re- 
ceived them  from  the  hand  of  Moroni, 
and  where,  it  is  said,  he  received  the 
manifestations  of  the  angel,  who  ap- 
peared to  him  three  times  in  one  night. 
We  went  into  the  grove  where  Joseph 
had  knelt  down  and  asked  the  Lord 
to  inform    him     which     one    of  the 
churches    he  should  join.      We  were 
impressed   to   sing,    in   that  hallowed 
place,   the  beautiful  Mormon  Sunday 
school  hymn,    "Joseph    Smith's  First 
Prayer."      Mr.   Chapman,  who  owns 
that  property,   and  who   accorded  us 
every   possible   courtesy,   informed  us 
that  the  grove  we  went  into  never  had 
a  tree  cut  down.      The  property  had 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  his  father  af- 
ter our  people  had  moved  away,  and 
he  had  held  those  woods  sacred,  and 
they  took   their     timber     from  other 
groves  around  there.     We  were  taken 
inside  the  house  and  shown  the  room 
where  a  part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 


had  been  translated.  We  drank  water 
out  of  the  well  that  was  supposed  to 
have  been  dug  by  the  father  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  house  was 
built  by  his  brother  Alvin.  Every 
kindness  and  consideration  possible 
was  extended  to  us  by  Mr.  W.  Avery 
Chapman,  who  now  owns  the  proper- 
ty. In  the  stream  of  water  in  the 
pasture,  near  the  house,  is  a  place  that 
had  evidently  been  dug  out,  making  a 
pool  sufficiently  large  for  baptisms,  and 
we  were  informed  that  some  of  the 
first  baptisms  of  the  Church,  after 
those  in  Seneca  Lake,  were  performed 
in  that  little  pool.  It  has  been  left 
as  it  was,and  they  have  never  straight- 
ened up  the  ditch  bank. 

We  visited     the  Hill  Cumorah  and 
were  accorded  the  courtesy  of  going 
thereon  by  the  wife    of    Mr.  George 
Sampson,  a  brother  of  Admiral  Wm. 
Sampson,  who  before  his  death  owned 
the  property.     When  we  went  up  there 
and  looked  around,   we  felt  that  we 
were  standing  on  holy  ground.  The 
brethren   located,      as   near   as  they 
thought  was  possible,  the  place  from 
which  the  plates  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon were  taken  by  the  Prophet.    We  • 
were  delighted  to  be  there.  Looking 
over  the  surrounding  country  we  re- 
membered that  two  great  races  of  peo- 
ple had  wound  up  their  existence  in  the 
vicinity,   had  fought   their  last  fight, 
and  that  hundreds  of  thousands  had 
been  slain  within   sight  of  that  hill. 
Evidence  of  the  great  battles  that  have 
been  fought  there  in  days  gone  by  are 
manifest     in     the     numerous  spear 
and     arrow-heads     that     have  been 
found     by     farmers     while  plowing 
in     that     neighborhood.     We  were 
fortunate  enough  to  obtain  a  few  of 
the  arrowheads.    Upon  the  hill,  near  a 
little  grove  of  timber,  the  party  stood 
and  sang  that  glorious  hymn: 

An  angel  from  on  high 
The  long,  long  silence  broke; 

Descending  from  the  sky, 
These  gracious  wrords  he  spoke: 

Lo!  in  Cumorah's  lonely  hill, 
A  sacred  record  lies  concealed. 

And  then,  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord,  President  Smith  offered  one  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 


57 


the  most  profound  and  beautiful  pray- 
ers I  have  ever  listened  to.  Everyone 
present  was  melted  to  tears.  We  felt 
the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  our  Father; 
and  all  who  were  there  can  testify  that 
it  was  one  of  the  most  supremely  happy 
moments  of  their  lives.  After  that 
memorable  experience  we  returned  in 
the  carriages  to  Palmyra  and  were  en- 
tertained by  some  of  the  prominent  cit- 
izens of  that  town.  "We  were  shown 
by  Pliny  T.  Sexton  a  full  set  of  the  or- 
iginal sheets  of  the  first  edition  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  We  saw  the  old 
printing  press  upon  which  it  was  print- 
ed; and  were  received  with  much  kind- 
ness and  courtesy  by  everybody  whom 
we  met. 

That  night  we  took  train  and  re- 
sumed the  journey  westward,  arriving 
the  next  morning  in  the  city  of  Cleve- 
land, from  whence  we  went  by  street 
car  to  Willoughby,  and  proceeded  by 
other  conveyances  from  there  to  Kirt- 
land,  the  old  home  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Com- 
ing in  sight  of  the  "town  the  first  thing 
that  greeted  our  vision  was  the  beau- 
tiful temple  of  Kirtland,  and  as  we  be- 
held it  we  felt  that  there  was  one  sa- 
cred building  that  had  passed  from  the 
hands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  hope 
the  day  will  come,  ir  it  be  the  will  of 
our  Father,  that  it  will  again  be  pos- 
sessed by  the  Church  that  built  it.  It 
was  there  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  Sidney  Rigdon  saw  the  Savior  upon 
the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit.  It  was 
there  that  Moses  committed  to  them 
the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel; 
and  that  Elias  and  Elijah  came  in  the 
power  and  majesty  of  their  great  call- 
ings, and  delivered  the  keys  that  had 
been  committed  to  their  care  in  the 
days  of  their  ministry  on  the  earth. 

We  were  received  very  kindly  by 
Mr.  U.  S.  Green,  one  of  the  apostles 
of  the  Reorganized  Church.  He  took 
us  through  the  various  rooms  of  the 
building,  and  many  us  were  made 
to  feel  in  our  hearts  grateful  to  the 
Lord  that  we  were  permitted  to  stand 
upon  what  had  indeed  been  holy 
ground.  When  we  realized  that  the 
building  was  constructed  by  people  in 
extreme  poverty,  how  courageous  men 


worked  during  the  day     to    lay  the 
foundations  and  build  the  walls  of  that 
structure,  and  then  at  night  stood  and 
defended  it  with  weapons  against  those 
who  had  sworn  that  the  building  should 
never  be  completed,  we  could  not  help 
but  feel  that  it  was  no  Avonder  the  Lord 
■received    their   offerings    and  blessed 
them  as  few  people  have  been  blest 
upon  The  earth.   We  saw  the  little  town 
of  Kirtland  and  some  of  the  houses 
that  were  built  in  early  days  by  the 
men  who  lived  there,  among  others  the 
home  where  the  Prophet  resided,  and 
where  the  Patriarch  had  lived.  The 
old  home  of  Sidney  Rigdon,  and  some 
others  are  still  standing,  but  are  fast 
going  to   decay.     Practically  no  new 
structures  are  being  erected,  and  it  is 
only  a  little  village,  while  the  people 
who  moved  from  that  section  of  coun- 
try out  into    the    wilderness    of  the 
Rocky  Mountains  have  builded  a  com- 
monwealth, and  have  taught  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  our  Father's  children 
to  honor  and  glorify  His  name. 
.  Then  we  resumed  our  journey  home- 
ward again,   receiving  everywhere  on 
our  return  trip  the  same  courtesies  as 
we  had  before.    At  Chicago  we  were 
met  by  people  from  Kenosha  and  taken 
in  a  special  train  to  large  manufactur- 
ing establishments  in  that  town,  and 
in   Racine.     Everybody   extended  to 
President  Smith  the  right  hand  of  fel- 
lowship,   and   kindness   without  stint 
were  extended  to  him  and  to  his  party 
wherever  we  went.     After  holding  a 
delightful  meeting  with  the  Saints  in 
the   city   of   Chicago,     we  continued 
westward.    I  must  tell  you  that  every 
night  before  we  retired,  from  the  time 
we  left  until  we  returned,  President 
Smith  gathered  his  little  family  around 
him  (he  treated  us  as  such),  the  hymns 
of  Zion  were  sung  as  we  sped  aci'oss 
the  plains,  or  through  the  cities,  and 
prayer  was  offered  before  we  retired  to 
our  beds.    The  last  night  on  our  return 
journey,  as  the  old  year  was  passing 
away  and  the  new  year  being  ushered 
in,   we   crossed   a  section   of  country 
where  our  people  had  wandered  many 
weary  steps.    We  were  called  together 
by  President  Smith,  and  after  singing 
several   of   the   songs   of  Zion,  each 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


member  of  the  party  was  permitted  to 
testify  of  the  goodness  and  mercy  of 
our  Father  unto  us.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  poured  out  upon  us,  and  we 
shed  tears  of  joy  and  happiness.  We 
thanked  God  that  we  had  been  permit- 
ted to  go  upon  this  journey.  Only  one 
regret  entered  into  our  hearts,  and 
that  was,  that  more  of  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Israel  had  not  been  able  to 
avail  themselves  of  the  same  blessed 
privilege.  On  the  morning  of  the  first 
day  of  January,  1906,  after  a  journey 
of  two  weeks  without  sickness,  accident 
or  delay,  with  no  unkind  word,  and 
with  nothing  but  brotherly  love  from 
our  Father's  children  wherever  we  met 
them,  we  were  welcomed  home  by  our 
families,  and  ate  our  New  Year's  din- 
ner with  them. 

I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  'work  that  was  done  in  the 
erection  of  that  monument  is  a  credit 
to  Junius  F.  Wells;  and  the  completed 
structure  is  a  credit  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Many  of  our  Father's  children  will  re- 
ceive the  testimony  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  from  meeting  those  who  will  labor 
and  minister  in  that  section  of  coun- 
try. What  has  been  done  there  is  a  be- 
ginning of  the  building  ud  the  waste 
places  of  Zion.  In  New  Tork,  Chicago, 
Denver,  Chattanooga,  Milwaukee,  In- 
dependence, and  many  other  places, 
there  will  be  mission  homes  reared  for 
the  Latter-day  Saint%,  and  places  for 
the  worship  of  the  Lord.  Zion  will  be 
redeemed,  and  the  world,  'which  now 
misunderstands  the  work  of  "Moirnon- 
ism,"  will  live  to  know  that  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  those 
who  will  keep  the  commandments  of 
our  Father.  My  testimony  is  that  the 
work  grows  apace,  and  that  the  chil- 
dren of  men  are  receiving  "Mormon- 
ism"  in  their  souls;  that  it  is  the  work 
of  our  Father.  We  may  be  puny  and 
weak  of  ourselves,but  if  we  will  be  vir- 
tuous and  pure  in  our  lives,  if  we  will 
do  what  we  know  to  be  right,  men  and 
women  will  be  raised  to  continue  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  until  our  Father's 
work  will  have  been  done  in  the  way 
that  He  desires.  Thos,e  who  misunder- 
stand us  now  will     know    us  better. 


Those  who  believe  we  have  selfish  mo- 
tives will  be  undeceived,  and  our  broth- 
ers and  sisters  of  the  world,  who  desire 
the  truth  and  wish  to  know  what  the 
Lord  wants  of  them,  will  be  pricked  in 
their  hearts  and  accept  the  Gospel. 
Zion  will  rise  and  shine,  and  will  be- 
come the  glory  of  the  whole  earth,  the 
Lord  God  of  Israel  has  so  decreed.  May 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "In 
Our  Redeemer's  Name." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der Solomon  Hale. 

Conference  was  adjourned  till  2  p.  m. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  session  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  hall,  commencing  at  10:30 
a.  m.  The  presiding  officer  was  Elder 
Rudger  Clawson,  and  Prof.  Charles  J. 
Thomas  conducted  the  singing,  assist- 
ed by  the  Temple  choir. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn   commencing,    "How  firm  a 
foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Bryant  S.  Hinckley. 

Singing  by  choir  and  congregation, 
"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  A.  McRAE. 

(President  of  Colorado  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
this  morning  with  you  in  meeting  in 
this  assembly  hall,  in  continuation  of 
the  great  conference  we  have  been 
holding,  and  I  rejoice  in  the  remarks 
that  have  been  made  during  the  meet- 
ings that  have  passed.  I  am  gratified 
in  the  report  That  has  been  made  by 
the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  showing  the 
great  prosperity  that  the  people  are 
enjoying  at  the  present  time.  While 
I  have  been  at  this  conference,  I  have 
had  many  evidences  that  prove  to  me 
that  what  President  Smith  said  at  the 
opening  meeting  is  true.  I  could  not 
help  but  remark  this  when  I  looked 
upon  the  faces  of  those  children  that 
furnished  the  music  for  the  afternoon 
session  yesterday.  Zion  is  assuredly 
prospering  and  growing.     I  heard  a 


ELDER   JOSEPH   A.  McRAE. 


59 


gentleman  say  something  about  pros- 
perous men  the  other  day,  and  suc- 
cessful men,  and  I  said,  "By  what  rule 
do  you  measure  your  successful  men 
in  this  world?  Is  it  those  who  make 
a  success  in  accumulating  means?" 
And  he  said,  "Well,  I  suppose  that  is 
the  way  I  measured  the  successful 
men."  In  various  avenues  of  life  we 
have  found  men  that  have  been  very 
unsuccessful,  although  they  have  ac- 
cumulated means,  and  these  men  have 
been  held  up  to  the  people  as  examples 
of  honesty  and  integrity.  But  when  I 
look  upon  the  faces  of  the  children  of 
Zion,  and  hear  their  songs,  and  listen 
to  their  sweet  voices,  I  feel  within  my 
heart  that  the  parents  of  these  chil- 
dren are  successful,  although  they  may 
not  have  much  of  this  world's  goods. 

In  the  mission  where  it  is  my  privil- 
ege to  preside,  the  Elders  are  per- 
forming a  good  work,  preaching  the 
Gospel  among  the  people.  They  are 
meeting  a  great  many  people,  making 
many  friends,  although  very  few  con- 
verts are  brought  into  the  Church. 
Still  with  the  friends  that  we  are  mak- 
ing, we  feel  amply  repaid  for  the  time 
and  labor  that  has  been  spent  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  people.  In 
many  settlements  and  districts  where 
xhe  Elders  have  labored  they  are  open- 
ing their  doors  today  who  have  never 
done  so  before,  and  they  are  giving 
the  Elders  an  opportunity  to  preach 
upon  the  street  corners,  although  pome 
of  the  cities,  towns  and  villages  have 
refused  the  Elders  this  method  of 
bearing  their  testimony.  We  feel  that 
the  hand  of  the  Lord  is  in  all  this.  We 
feel  that  He  is  protecting  His  great 
work,  that  He  will  bring  it  out  tri- 
umphant, and  that  what  puny  man 
iray  endeavor  to  do  to  overthrow  it 
will  be  of  no  effect  whatever,  for  we 
know  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  We 
know  that  He  is  accomplishing  His 
purposes,  and  often  times  He  accom- 
plishes them  in  a  way  different  to 
that  we  would  follow  if  we  were  left 
to  ourselves. 

There  is  a  matter  that  I  would  like 
to  speak  about,  and  I  feel  that  it 
should  be  taken  notice  of  by  the  Lat- 


ter-day Saints.  There  are  members  of 
the  Church  going  to  Colorado,  in  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  mission,  seeking 
employment  among  people  who  are  not 
of  us,  whose  sympathies  are  not  with 
us,  even  among  those  who  are  opposed 
to  this  latter-day  work.  Some  of  our 
boys  and  girls  come  among  those  peo- 
ple, seeking  employment,  and  in  some 
instances  older  men  and  women,  and  as, 
the  people  are  not  in  sympathy  with 
us,  they  do  not  aid  those  who  thus 
come  in  their  midst,  and  they  are  cold 
and  distant.  These  brethren  and  sisters 
come  back  again  to  us  in  the  mission, 
and  to  the  different  stakes,  and  in  this 
manner  members  of  stakes  are  being 
scattered.  Now  we  are  trying  to  show 
them  that  most  likely  they  are  the 
ones  who  are  at  fault  they  are  to 
blame  for  the  condition  which  confronts 
them.  Many  times,  as  was  said  yester- 
day by  one  of  the  brethren,  we  too 
readily  see  the  faults  of  others,  but  if 
we  would  just  look  within  our  own 
selves  we  would  probably  find  the  real 
cause  for  the  complaint  we  have  been 
making. 

You  boys  and  girls,  if  you  leave  youi 
homes  to  go  into  our  mission  fields,  if 
you  go  there  to  seek  employment,  or  to 
study,  or  for  recreation,  it  matters 
not  what,  you  should  first  go  to 
your  Bishop,  seek  counsel  from 
him,  obtain  his  blessing  before  you 
depart,  and  I  tell  you  that  you- 
will  be  blessed  if  you  will  do  this. 
But  if  you  go  there  upon  your  own  re- 
sponsibility, and  mingle  with  people  of' 
the  world  that  you  have  not  known, 
you  will  find  that  you  have  shouldered 
a  serious  responsibility.  One  day  in 
our  little  meetinghouse,  I  saw  the  face 
of  a  young  lady  that  seemed  familiar 
to  me.  For  a  few  moments  I  could- 
not  place  her,  and  then  I  remembered 
that  I  had  met  her  in  one  of  the  wards 
of  Zion,  and  I  went  up  to  her,  and  said, 
"What  are  you  doing  here?"  She  said, 
"I  am  trying  to  get  a  little  rest.  I 
have  walked  this  city  from  one  end  to- 
the  other,  and  ten  miles  out,  seeking 
employment.  I  have  answered  every 
likely  advertisement  that  I  have  seen« 
in  the  paper,  and  I  don't  know  what  to> 


60 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


do."    I  said,  "The  best  thing-  you  can 
do  is  to  go  home;  there  is  the  place,  go 
home  where  you  belong."    She  said,  "I 
thought  I  did  not  get  enough  wages  at 
home,  I  thought  the  people  were  not 
treating  me  as  they  ought  to  do,  but 
now  I  realize  that  I  alone  am  to  blam<sv 
Now,"  she  said, "how  am  I  to  get  home, 
I  have  spent  all  the  money  I  had,  and 
I  am  without  anything  to  help  myself." 
I  said,.  "You  go  up  stairs,  my  wife  will 
take  care  of  you.    Tou  rest  a  while, 
and  we  will  talk  the  situation  over  and 
see  what  can  be  done."  The  result  was, 
she  came  back  to  her  home  in  Utah, 
and  is  glad  she  is  again  here.  Tou 
could  not  get  that  girl  to  go  out  into 
Colorado,   or  into   California,   to  seek 
•employment   again.     'She   went  awaj 
without   the   blessing  of   her  Bishop. 
She  went  away  without  the  blessing  of 
her  people,  and  she  went  upon  her  own 
responsibility.     There  are  others  who 
do  the  same  thing,  but  some  of  them 
do  not  return  in  as  good  shape,  or  es- 
cape as  easily  as  she  did.    I  am  sorry 
to  say  that  some  of  them  fall  by  the 
way  side,  and  will  never  get  over  it 
as  long  as  they  live,  never  can  wipe 
out  the  stain  that  has  come  upon  them. 
My   advice   is,    remain   at   home,  al- 
though you  may  not  get  just  as  much 
wages  as  you  might  in  the  world.  Re- 
main at  home  under  the  influence  of  the 
servants  of  God,  where  you  can  re- 
ceive counsel  from  your  Bishop,  and 
where  you  can  attend  and  be  benefitted 
by  the  Sunday  School,  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement     Associations    and  othei 
means  of  comfort  and  blessing  in  Zion. 
Our  Elders  are  doing  all  they  possibly 
can  to  befriend  girls  they  find  in  the 
mission  who  have  drifted  away  from 
home.     Some  of  these  girls  have  be- 
come  discouraged,   and   have  married 
non-members  of  the  Church,  and  they 
are  sorry  for  that.    They  would  gives 
all      their      lives      if      they  could 
only    return  again.     I  would  like  to 
sound  this  warning  in  the  ears  of  ev- 
ery man   and   woman   in   the  Church 
who  is  thinking-  about  leaving  home, 
and  I  would  like  to  have  them  under- 
stand and  see  it  as  I  see  it. 

When  you  let  your    sons    or  your 


daughters  go  out  to  preach  the  gospel 
in  the  world  they  are  safe.    I  was  very 
much  impressed  with  the  remarks  of 
Brother  Kimball  the  other  day,  in  re- 
gard to  this  matter.    When  you  send 
your  sons  or  daughters  into  the  mis- 
sion field,  you  send  them  there  under 
the  protection    of    God,    our  Eternal 
Father,  and  the  prayers  that  you  offer 
up  in  their  behalf.    You  do  not  feel 
sorry  or  worried  about  their  condition, 
and  what  temptations,  even,  they  will 
have  to  meet,  or  as  to  their  ability  to 
overcome  the  temptations.    You  do  not 
feel  concerned  over  these  things,  for 
you  know  they  are  in  the  hands  of 
God,  you  know  they  are  strengthened 
and   blessed   by   His   power,   by  His 
Holy  Spirit,  and  are  sustained  under 
that  influence;  and  you  are  perfectly 
willing  to  trust  them  among  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  in  the  cities  of  the 
world,  wherever  they  may  be  sent  and 
feel   that   they   will   return   again  to 
their  homes  in  safety.    President  Ben 
E.   Rich   said  yesterday  that,  of  the 
thousands   of   missionaries   that  had 
been  sent  to  him  in  the  mission  field, 
he  could  count  on  the  fingers  of  one 
hand  all  the  Elders   who   had  fallen 
and  returned  with  a  dishonorable  re- 
lease.   I  have  been  connected  with  the 
Colorado  mission  almost  since  the  first 
Elders  went  into  that  field,  and  can 
say  that  all  the  Elders  who  have  come 
home  from  there  have  returned  pure 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world.    They  have  come  home  unde- 
fined, and  can  look  their  fellow  men  in 
the  face  and  say,  "I  have  performed 
my  duty  to  the  best  of  the  ability  God 
has  given  me." 

Our  mission  district  embraces  a 
variety  of  climate.  In  one  part  there 
is  perpetual  snow,  and  in  another  part 
we  almost  have  the  tropics,  tropical 
fruits  grow  there.  We  have,  there- 
fore, the  opportunity  of  transferring 
our  Elders  to  places  that  will  be  fa- 
vorable to  their  health  conditions.  We 
have  the  dry  climate  that  is  suitable  to 
some  conditions,  and  for  recovery  from 
some  diseases;  and  we  have  the  moist 
climate,  where  it  rains  a  great  deal. 
Our  Elders  have  been  transferred  from 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


61 


one  part  of  the  mission  to  the  other, 
as  may  be  deemed  necessary,  and  their 
health  has  been  kept  good.    Very  few- 
Elders  have  returned  who  have  been 
afflicted  or  sick,  and  we  have  never 
lost  an  Elder  by  death  in  that  mission 
field.    A  very  few  of  the  Elders  have 
had  typhoid  fever,  or  pneumonia,  but 
other  diseases  have  not  afflicted  them. 
It  is  stated  by  the  physicians  of  Colo- 
rado that  there  is  no  such  thing  as 
malarial  fever  in  that  state,  unless  it 
has  been   brought   there   from  other 
parts  of  the  country.    Therefore,  your 
sons  and  daughters  who  are  laboring 
in  that  mission  field  are  in  a  healthy 
country,  where  they  can  be  transferred 
in  such  manner   as  will   conduce  to 
their  health.    If  we  find  that  a  damp 
climate  does  not  agree  with  them,  we 
transfer  them  to  a  higher  and  dryer 
place  that  puts  new  life  into  them,  and 
they  go  forth  with  new  energy  in  the 
performance   of  their   duties.  Elders 
have    been    transferred    to  Colorado 
from  Great  Britain  on  account  of  their 
health,   and   from   the   Southern  and 
the  Northern  states,  and  these  Elders 
have,  in  every  instance,  soon  regained 
their  health     and    performed  mission 
work.    Tour  girls  who  have  been  sent 
as  missionaries  to  that  field  are  also 
in    good    health.     I   am    very  much 
pleased  with  the  success  of  the  ladies 
in  the  mission  field.     Our  sisters  in 
Denver  are  busy,  in  fact  have  more 
than  they  can  do  in  meeting  the  ap- 
pointments made  for  them  by  the  El- 
ders.   People  say,  "We  would  like  to 
talk  with  some  of  your  women;  we 
would  like  to  hear  Mormonism  from 
the  women's  standpoint."    Our  sisters 
visit  the  homes  of  the  people,  answei 
questions  for  them,  read  to  them,  and 
teach  their  children,  where  the  Elders 
do  not  have  access  to  the  homes.  They 
are  accomplishing  a  great  work;  we 
have  a  noble  band  of  them  in  the  mis- 
sion field  at  the  Dresent  time,  and  ti  a 
People  sing  their  praises. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  thankful 
for  the  Gospel,  and  the  testimony  that 
the  Lord  has  given  unto  me.  I  am 
thankful  that  I  have  been  born  of 
goodly  parents  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 


Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am 
thankful  for  the  word  of  God  we  re- 
ceive from  the  men  who  stand  as  His 
mouthpieces  unto  the  people  in  this 
generation. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  liv- 
ing in  a  critical  time  for  this  people, 
a  time  when  it  requires  all  the  faith 
we  can  muster  in  order  to  remain  true 
and  faithful  to  the  covenants  we  have 
made.  Let  us  keep  our  eye  upon  the 
servants  of  God,  that  He  has  raised  up 
in  this  dispensation.  Let  us  follow 
their  lead,  and  God  will  bless  this  peo- 
ple and  bring  them  off  triumphant, 
which  may  He  do  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

My  brethren  and   sisters,   I  rejoice 
exceedingly   in   the   labors   that  have 
been  acomplished   by   the  Latter-day 
Saints  for  the  salvation  of  mankind.  I 
reverence  those  men  and  women  who 
are  laboring  for  Zion  and  her  inter- 
ests and  welfare,   both  at  home  and 
abroad.    I  do  not  believe  there  is  any- 
thing else  in  all  the  world  that  will 
compare   with   the   unselfish  devotion 
shown  by  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
has  oft  times  been  said  that  this  is  an 
individual  work;    there   is  something 
for  each  one  to  do.    Ordinarily,  in  the 
world,   we    hear   them   speak   of  the 
clergymen  and  the  laymen;  sometimes. 
I  wonder  what  they  mean.    I  presume 
they  mean  that  clergymen  are  those 
who  advocate  the  doctrines  of  the  gos- 
pel, who  are  preaching  the  word,  and 
laboring  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord; 
and  by  the  term  laymen,  I  presume 
they  mean  those  who  lay  down  and  do 
nothing  in  that  line.    I  do  not  know 
whether  that  would  be  considered  a 
correct  interpretation,  but  that  is  the 
thought  that  comes  to  my  mind;  and  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact  that  we  have  no 
laymen,  in  that  sense,  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  but  that  all  are  ex- 
pected to  labor  for  Zion  and  her  inter- 
ests.    And  what  a  grand  labor  it  is 
that  we  are  engaged  in,  a  labor  that 
our  Father  has  imposed  upon  us  for  ■ 


■62 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men!    What  a  noble  work  it  is! 
What  an  army  of  laborers  there  are! 
We  send  forth  a  host  of  missionaries 
into  various  parts  of  the  world,  upon 
the    island*    of  the   sea,  into  foreign 
lands  beyond  the  ocean,  and  also  to 
the  states  and  territories  of  our  na- 
tive land!     Our  sons   and  daughters 
are  thus  laboring  for  the  salvation  of 
the  souls  of  men.    Here  at  home  we 
^.re  organized  into  various  associations, 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  Stakes  of 
Zion,  Wards,   Sunday  Schools.  Mutu- 
al Improvement  associations,   and  all 
of  the  .various  organizations  that  have 
been  founded  and  established  among 
the  people  that  the-"-  might  be  educated 
to  labor  for  the  salvation  of  souls.  If 
there  be  one  who  is  not  engaged  in 
some  part  of  this  work,  he  also  ought 
to  be  given  something  to  do,  and  a 
reproach  is  upon  the  Bishop  for  neglect 
•of  duty,  unless  it  be,  perhaps,  that  the 
unemployed  one  is  not  willing  to  en- 
gage in  that  labor.   It  seems  to  me  that 
the  work  we  have  to  perform  is  wor- 
thv  of  our  best  efforts  and  utmost  en- 
ergies, and  when  we  engage  in  it  we 
ought  to  labor  with  all  our  might.  Un- 
fortunately, we  find  some  who  go  at 
this  work  in  a  half-hearted  way,  who 
treat  it  slightingly,  and  do  not  cheer- 
fully    give    their    best    energies  and 
efforts,  who  are  dilatory  and  neglect- 
ful of  the  labor  that  has  been  assigned 
to  him  or  her.    That  kind  of  labor  is 
not  satisfactory  to  the  Lord,  and  will 
not  be  rewarded  by  Him.    If  you  were 
to  labor  in  some  mercantile  establish- 
ment with  a  view  simply  for  putting 
in  time,  not  giving  your  best  thought 
and  energy  in  performing  your  duties, 
your  employer  would  not  be  satisfied, 
you  would  have  your  wages  reduced, 
or   possibly  you  might   be  dismissed 
from  the  service.    I  believe  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  expects  zealous,  en- 
ergetic work  from  those  who  are  em- 
ployed in  His  vineyard. 

We  read  in  the  scriptures:  "Seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness  and  all  other  things  shall 
be  added  unto  you."  Let  us  analyze 
this  scripture,  and  see  if  we  cannot 


learn  what  the  Lord  expects  of  us.  I 
think,  if  we  will  give  it  our  attention 
for  a  few  moments,  we  will  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  He  desires  a  great 
deal  from  us.  As  already  stated.  There 
are  some  who  perform  their  work  in  a 
half-hearted  way.  Some  young  men 
engaged  in  Mutual  Improve- 
ment association  work  will  do  a 
little,  provided  they  easily  find  time  to 
do  it.  They  say,  "I  have  got  to  earn 
my  living,  I  have  to  work  at  that  so 
many  hours  in  the  day,  and  when 
evening  comes,  if  I  am  not  too  tired, 
and  there  isn't  some  amusement  that 
I  want  to  engage  in,  I  will  attend  to 
the  duties  that  have  been  assigned  me, 
if  I  find  enough  time  to  spare."  That 
is  not  the  proper  spirit  of  this  work, 
and  it  is  not  satisfactory  to  our  Father 
in  heaven,  who  requires  a  great  deal 
more  at  our  hands.  It  is  not  seeking 
the  Kingdom  of  God  first,  but  is  put- 
ting it  second;  it  is  contrary  to  the 
commandment  of  the  Lord.  On  the 
other  hand,  we  should  ^feel  that  our 
first  duty  is  to  do  that  which  the  Lord 
requires  of  us.  I  should  feel  that, 
when  a  duty  has  been  assigned  to  me, 
I  will  accomplish  it  if  all  else  fails.  I 
will  labor,  if  need  be,  from  early  morn- 
ing until  late  at  night,  until  my  body 
is  weary;  and  when  I  have  labored  to 
do  what  the  Lord  has  desired  of  me, 
and  have  accomplished  that  work, 
then,  if  I  can  find  time  to  earn  a  liv- 
ing I  will  do  it,  but  if  I  can't  I  will 
starve  if  need  be.  Now  that  is  what  I 
understand  the  Scripture  quoted 
means.  But  I  do  not  think  that  any 
laborer  in  Zion  who  pursues  that 
policy  needs  to  starve.  We  find  that 
those  men  and  women  who  are  devot- 
ing their  lives  to  the  doing  of  their  du- 
ties are  not  beggars,  nor  suffering  with 
poverty.  Here  is  the  promise,  if  you 
will  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  His  righteousness  all  other  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you.  Have  you 
faith  in  that?  Do  you  believe  that? 
If  you  do  not,  you  do  not  believe  in 
the  promises  of  God.  Now  I  hope  no 
one  will  think  I  mean  that  he  can 
justifiably  neglect  his  daily  vocation, 
and  fail  to  provide  for  his  family.  That 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


63 


is  one  of  the  duties  God  requires  of 
him;  but  I  do  say,  and  yet  not  I,  but  a 
greater  than  I  has  said,  "Seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  righte- 
ousness;" and  that  should  govern  the 
laborers  for  Zion,  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  If  we  give  the  Lord  that  al- 
legiance if  we  put  Him  and  His  king- 
dom first,  and  labor  with  an  eye  single 
to  His  glory,  what  a  grand  work  will 
be  accomplished  by  this  magnificent 
■organization  which  our  Father  has  es- 
tablished upon  the  earth  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  whole  world!  We  are  not 
placed  upon  this  earth  simply  to  eke 
•out  an  existence,  to  earn  bread  and 
butter,  live  a  while  and  die.  No,  there 
is  a  grander  and  nobler  purpose,  that 
as,  we  come  here  upon  this  earth,  ob- 
tain these  tabernacles  which  the  Lord 
designed  should  be  His  temples,  and 
•seek  to  cleanse  and  purify  them,  that 
we  may  be  prepared  for  the  great 
■eternal  life  which  is  beyond.  May  the 
Lord  help  us  to  attain  it,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  The  fact 
that  we  are  here  assembled  in  the 
morning,  in  an  overflow  meeting  of 
the  general  conference  is  one  among 
other  evidences  of  the  growth  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

I  presume  that  when  the  great  tab- 
ernacle on  this  block  was  erected,  it 
was  supposed  by  the  brethren  who  ac- 
complished that  very  remarkable  work 
— that  is,  remarkable  when  their  cir- 
cumstances are  taken  into  account — 
that  for  very,  very  many  years  there 
would  be  ample  room  for  the  gather- 
ing of  .  the  people  at  the  general  con- 
ferences; but,  in  the  course  of  time, 
it  was  found  it  was  not  equal  to  the 
requirements  of  the  people  upon  the 
Sabbath  afternoon,  at  least,  and  it 
became  necessary  to  hold  an  over- 
flow meeting.  Then,  after  a  little 
while,  it  became  necessary  to  hold  the 
overflow  meeting  in  the  morning  as 
well;  and  we  find  it  necessary  on  this 
morning  to  hold  such  a  meeting.  I 


expect  the  time  will  come,  as  Israel 
shall  continue  to  gather  into  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  more  representa- 
tives shall  come  from  the  various 
stakes  to  attend  these  conferences — I 
expect  that  we  shall  find  it  necessary 
to  hold  overflow  meetings,  not  only 
upon  the  Sabbath  day,  but  upon  other 
days,  until  we  will  hold  our  general 
conference  in  sections. 

We  will  find  ourselves  in  the  same 
condition  that  the  Nephites  were  in 
during  the  time  that  the  Savior  min- 
istered among  them.  They  gathered 
together  in  such  multitudes  that  it  be- 
came necessary  to  divide  them  into 
groups,  and  to  send  members  of  the 
council  of  the  Apostles  to  these  dif- 
ferent groups  to  hold  meetings  with 
the  people  and  dispense  the  word  of 
God.  And  this  in  order  to  accommo- 
date the  multitudes,  who  were  gath- 
ered together.  So  I  doubt  not  we 
shall  have  to  do  in  the  future. 

I  think  we  may  comfort  ourselves 
with  the  reflection,  however,  that  no 
matter  into  how  many  sections  the 
conference  may  be  divided,  in  order  to 
accommodate  people,  we  shall  find  that 
in  every  case,  in  every  section,  the 
word  of  the  Lord  will  be  there  to 
meet  the  people  and  instruct  them; 
and  there  will  be  no  reason  why  that 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  not  be  as  po- 
tent in  one  division  of  the  conference 
as  it  is  in  another;  so  that  all  the  peo- 
ple may  rejoice  .in  receiving  instruc- 
tion from  the  one  Spirit,  from  the  one 
source,  even  as  we,  this  morning  and 
this  afternoon,  in  the  overflow  meet- 
ings, may  partake  of  the  one  influence 
that  is  present  and  dominant  at  this 
conference. 

And  that  is  what  we  seek,  that  is 
what  we  come  to  these  conferences  for 
— to  partake  of  the  influence  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  and  receive  instruction 
and  enlightenment  from  it;  and  those 
who  come  hungering  and  thirsting  for 
it  shall  not  go  away  empty. 

I  listened  to  a  speaker,  not  long 
since,  who  expressed  the  conviction 
that  "An  inspired  speaker  requires  an 
inspired  audience."    I  believe  that  is 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


true.  And  if  that  is  a  conclusion 
drawn  from  the  experience  of  one  not 
of  our  faith — and  the  man  in  question 
was  not  of  our  religious  faith — how 
much  more  abundantly  true  it  is  in  our 
experience  who  have  been  so  definitely 
taught  the  necessity  for  both  speaker 
and  hearer  to  be  inspired  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  in  order  to  understand 
divine  truths. 

In  my  thought  upon  the  Gospel  and 
its  development,  there  is  no  one  thing 
connected  with  it  which  has  more  im- 
pressed me  than  the  fact  that  of  all 
the  teachers,  the  Lord  is  the  wisest  in- 
structor. He  adopts  strictly  scientific 
methods  in  teaching.  He  is  a  splendid 
workman.  If  He  were  to  undertake  to 
fashion  or  mould  iron,  I  do  not  be- 
lieve He  would  attempt  to  bend  It 
cold,  but  like  a  wise  craftsman,  He 
would  heat  the  iron.  If  He  desired  to 
weld  it  together,  He  would  put  the 
metal  into  at  least  a  half-fused  state, 
so  that  there  would  be  some  prospect 
of  uniting  it,  or  welding  it  together. 
As  He  would  heat  the  iron,  and  then 
bend  it  to  His  purpose  or  design,  so  in 
giving  instructions  to  a  prophet  or  to 
a  people,  we  shall  find  that  He  pre- 
pares, the  minds  of  the  people  to  re-? 
ceive  the  truth  before  the  truth  is  an- 
nounced. 

Have  you  ever  studied  the  condi- 
tions under  which  the  Lord  gave  reve- 
lations to  the  Prophet  Joseph?  If  you 
have,  you  doubtless  have  been  struck 
with  this  truth,  namely,  that  in  every 
case  the  mind  of  the  Prophet  was  in 
an  inquiring  attitude  towards  God. 
How  came  he  to  receive  that  first, 
great  revelation  with  which  this  work 
began,  and  by  which  he  was  brought 
into  the  very  presence  of  God,  the 
Eternal  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ?  Why,  you  will  find  that  he 
was  inquiring  of  the  Lord,  anxious  to 
know.  And  by  putting  himself  in  that 
attitude,  he  bore  witness  to  the  heav- 
ens that  he  was  prepared  to  receive  the 
truth,  and  hence  the  Lord  revealed 
Himself  fully  unto  this  Prophet,  creat- 
ed him  in  fact  a  witness  for  God  in 
the  earth;  a  witness  who  could  speak 
to    some   purpose,    and    testify  with 


power,  because  he  knew.  He  had  seen? 
the  Lord,  he  had  conversed  with  Him 
in  the  heavenly  vision.  He  had  receiv- 
ed a  message  from  God;  he  had  re- 
ceived knowledge  of  such  a  character 
that  it  must  end  in  revolutionizing  the 
whole  world  in  respect  of  its  concep- 
tion of  the  nature  of  God.  You  will  find 
in  every  case  where  the  Prophet 
received  communication  from  God,  it 
was  the  result  of  his  asking.  When 
others  received  revelations  or  intelli- 
gence from  God  it  was  because  they 
came  to  the  Prophet  asking.  Joseph 
Knight,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Martin  Har- 
ris, Samuel  H.  Smith.  Joseph  Smith, 
Sr.,  came  to  the  prophet  to  enquire  of 
God,  and  they  received  revelations, 
and  commandments  not  a  few.  The 
quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  some- 
times asked  for  revelations.  That 
great  revelation  which  sets  in  order 
the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  and 
puts  them  in  their  proper  relationship 
one  with  another,  that  describes  the 
extent  and  the  boundaries  also  of  their 
respective  powers  and  authority — 
(Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec.  107)  — 
that  great  revelation  came  for  the  in- 
struction of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Church  of  Christ,  because  the 
quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  sent  a 
written  petition  to  the  prophet,  asking 
that  he  inquire  of  the  Lord  that  they 
might  know  their  duties,  and  that  they 
might  know  the  extent  and  also  the- 
limits  of  their  authority  in  the  Church, 
that  the  mistakes  and  blunders  they 
had  theretofore  made  might  not  be 
repeated.  The  revelation  on  tithing 
came  in  response  to  the  inquiry 
"Show  us,  O  Lord,  thy  will  concerning 
the  tithing  of  thy  people."  And  the 
revelation  telling  how  it  was  to  be  dis- 
posed of  came  in  response  to  a  similar 
inquiry.  The  great  law  of  marriage,, 
the  system  which  includes  the  eternity 
of  the  marriage  covenant,  one  of  the 
most  splendid  principles  ever  revealed 
unto  the  children  of  men — the  fact  that 
the  union  between  husband  and  wife- 
the  holy  family  relations  of  children 
and  parents,  this  great  central,  pri- 
mary truth  concerning  these  relation- 
ships  and  their  continuance  in  time 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


65 


and  in  eternity,  came  in  response  to 
earnest  inquiry  on  the  nart  of  the 
Prophet.  Well  now,  you  have  these 
examples  before  you.  and  I  admonish 
you  Latter-day  Saints,  in  coming  up 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord,  in  coming  to 
conference,  that  you  come  with  minds 
anxious  to  know  and  to  learn;  and  in- 
asmuch as  you  come  with  this  hunger 
for  knowledge,  this  thirst  for  instruc- 
tion, you  will  find  the  Lord  responsive 
to  that  spirit  of  inquiry  in  your  minds 
and  you  shall  not  go  away  empty. 
"Blessed  is  he,"  said  Jesus,  "who  hun- 
gers and  thirsts  after  righteousness, 
for  he  shall  be  filled."  But  it  is  neces- 
sary that  men  come  in  a  prepared  state 
when  they  would  have  a  blessing  of 
the  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
thinking  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the 
nature  of  my  work  calls  upon  me  to 
study  it  as  one  of  the  world's  great 
movements;  to  look  upon  this  work  of 
the  Lord's  and  the  doctrines  it  advo- 
cates in  their  relationship  to  the  relig- 
ious world,  its  relationship  to  the  state, 
its  relationship  to  all  the  systems  of 
philosophy  that  have  ever  been  in  the 
world;  its  relationshio  also  to  all  the 
dispensations  of  the  gospel  that  have 
preceded  it.  "Viewing  it  from  that 
standpoint,  I  am  sure  it  is  rising  to 
take  its  place  in  the  systems  of  the 
worlds'  thought.  It  is  a  religious  force 
that  will  give  direction  to  the  thoughts 
of  men  in  respect  of  their  relationship 
to  Deity,  and  of  the  relationship  of 
Deity  to  the  world;  the  relationship 
that  ought  to  obtain  between  man  and 
man;  the  relationship  that  men  sus- 
tain to  the  eternities  that  are  to  come. 
And  viewing  Mormonism  from  that 
standing  point,  a  standpoint  forced  up- 
on me  by  reason  of  the  work  that  I  am 
engaged  in  as  a  teacher  of  the  Mormon 
faith,  and  assisting  in  a  humble  ca- 
pacity to  set  forth  its  history,  I  find  my 
faith  growing  in  this  great  Latter-day 
work.  I  am  as  satisfied  as  I  am  that  I 
live  that  the  system  of  truth  that  God 
has  revealed  to  His  Church  will  dom- 
inate the  thoughts  of  men  in  genera- 
tions to  come;  that  it  will  gather  to- 
gether  in    one'   all    truth,  pertaining 


both  to  ideas  and  conduct,  and  fix  the 
world's  standards  of  philosophical 
thought  and  ethical  action  in  ages 
yet  unborn.  I  predict  that  to  be  the 
destiny  of  this  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged. 

I  would  like  to  invite  the  thought  of 
the  Elders  of  the  Church  to  this  fu- 
ture destiny  of  the  great  Latter-day 
work. 

-  I  was  very  much  interested  in  what 
Elder  Wells  was  saying  to  you  just 
now  in  regard  to  there  being  a  great 
difference  between  our  religious  insti- 
tutions and  the  religious  institutions  of 
the  world.  The  difference  of  distinc- 
tion for  instance  between  laymen  and 
clergy,  as  held  in  the  Christian  sects, 
and  the  absence  of  such  a  marked  dis- 
tinction in  our  system.  Still  I  am  of 
opinion  that  it  would  be  well  for  us  to 
recognize  this  fact,  that  while  our  sys- 
tem truly  affords  opportunity  for  all  to 
be  active  and  to  be  workers  in  the  hive 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  yet  there  is  a 
woeful  neglect  by  us  of  some  of  those 
opportunities.  I  do  not  know  but  what 
we  can  do,  and  perhaps  with  some 
profit,  what  it  is  said  the  peacock  does. 
When  we  contemplate  this  work  of 
ours,  its  height,  and  depth  and  breadth 
and  grandeur;  when  we  contemplate 
its  completeness  of  organization,  we 
have  a  right  to  feel  proud  of  it;  yet  all 
personal  pride  ought  to  be  dismissed 
from  the  thought,  because  we  have  had 
very  little  to  do  with  bringing  it  into 
existence.  Our  pride  in  it  must  con- 
sist in  pride  of  what  God  hath 
wrought;  and  I  suppose  it  is  proper  to 
be  proud  of  what  God  has  achieved. 
But  I  doubt  whether  we  can  be  just  as 
proud  of  our  individual  conduct  and 
actions  connected  therewith.  And  this 
is  the  point  at  which  the  action  of  the 
peacock,  referred  to  a  moment  since, 
comes  in.  You  doubtess  have  observed 
that  the  peacock  is  a  very  beautiful 
bird,  and  among  other  things,  it  has  a 
most  splendid  tail,  one  that  it  can 
spread  out,  fan-shaped,  to  catch  an 
immense  amount  of  sunlight,  and 
wherever  a  beam  of  sunlight  strikes  it. 
it  gilds  it  with  many  and  ever  chang- 
ing hues.     The  bird  seems  conscious 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  apparently  proud  of  this  face.  It 
struts  about  the  yard  and  spreads  its 
tail  to  the  utmost  extension  Co  catch 
every  sunbeam  possible,  that  it  may 
reflect  all  the  glory  of  which  it  is  cap- 
able:   and   yet,   in   the   height   of  its 
pride,  as  it  struts  about,  if  it  happens 
to  glance  down  at  its  feet,  bare,  scaled, 
black    and      ugly,      its    pride  van- 
ishes  and   it   feels  ashamed  because 
of  its  ugly,  black  feet.     So  with  us. 
We  may  be  proud  without  limit  of 
the  Church  which  God  has  founded- 
but  whether  we  may  be  as  proud  of  our 
own.    personal    conduct     within  the 
Church  is  a  question  that  may  present 
a  different  aspect.    If  we  will  think  of 
it    from    this    standpoint,    I  believe 
that  we  too  will  draw  in  our  feathers 
as  the  peacock  does;  and  see  but  little 
occasion  for  self  glorification.    I  speak 
in  this  way  because  of  my  connection 
with  the  quorums  of  the  Seventy,  and 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations.  When  I  contemplate  these 
institutions,   and   think     what  might 
come  of  them,  and  then  think  of  what 
they  are,  and  how  we  fail  to  reach  the 
high  levels  of  excellence  upon  which 
we  might  be  moving,  it  seems  to  me 
that  a  little  wholesome  reproof  for  the 
mental  laziness  that  obtains  among  us 
is  quite  seasonable.    I  am  not  so  very 
proud  of  the  status  of  our  Seventies 
quorum?.    It  seems  to  me  that  if  our 
Seventies  and  all  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  could  view    the    Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  some  of  its  grander  as- 
pects, they  would  find  in  it  an  incen- 
tive that  would  prompt  them  to  more 
vigorous  study  of  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church  until  they  would  make  those 
great  truths  which  God  has  revealed 
more  perfectly  their  own,  before  goinj, 
out  into  the  nations  of  the  earth  to 
teach  them.    This  is  important,  breth- 
ren, because  if  we  are  going  to  master 
this  world,  we  must  master  it  through 
our  ideas,  through  the  truths  that  God 
has  given  us;  and  we  may  not  master 
the  world  even  with  that  truth  if  we 
ourselves  remain  ignorant  of  it  and  its 
relations.    And  so,  my  brethren,  the 
thing  I  would  urge  upon  you,  especially 
upon   you   who   hold   the  priesthood, 


whether  you  are  operating  in  Mutual 
Improvement   Associations   or  in  the 
quorums   of   the  holy  priesthood-my 
admonition  to  you  is  that  you  go  more 
earnestly  about  acquiring  a  knowledge 
of  these  great  truths  revealed  to  us, 
that  when  the  opportunity  comes  to 
you  to  be  a  witness  for  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  among  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
you  may  be  effective  witnesses;  that  you 
may  have  something  of  which  you  can 
testify  to  some  purpose;  that  you  may 
give  an  intelligent  reason  for  the  hope 
that  is  within  you.   If  there  is  one  thing 
more  than  another  to  be  reproved  in 
Israel  today,  it  is  a  lack  of  mental  ac- 
tivity and  earnest  inquiry  concerning 
the  great  th'ngs  that  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed to  His  people  in  this  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fullness  of  times.  Now, 
don't  regard  me  as  an  extremist  in 
these  things.  It  is  necessary  sometimes 
to    contemplate   things   in   their  ex- 
tremes, in  order  that  you  may  beget 
even  a  reasonable  amount  of  activity 
among  the  people  in  any  given  direc- 
tion; and  I  present  these  thoughts  to 
you,  in  the  hope  that  you  will  de  ad- 
monished by  them  to  a  more  earnest 
effort  to  acquire  an  understanding  of 
the  great  things  that  the  Lord  has  so 
graciously  committed  to  our  keeping; 
and  through  which  He  expects  that 
we,  through  an  intelligent  proclama- 
tion of  them  shall  master  the  world. 
May  the  Lord  bless  you,  is  my  prayer. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
have  listened  with  very  much  satisfac- 
tion to  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren, 
and  have  felt  a  thrill  of  divinity  in 
their  remarks.  If  I  shall  be  favored 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  as  they 
have  been,  I  shall  also  be  able  to  say 
something  that  may  bring  joy  to  my 
heart  and  to  yours.  Brother  Roberts 
alluded  to  the  condition  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  when  he  besought  the  Lord  with 
a  full  desire  to  know  His  mind  and 
will,  to  be  inspired  with  intelligence, 
light  and  knowledge,  and  his  petiton 
Avas  answered  in  full  measure.  The 
personal  manifestation  of  Divinity,  the 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


67 


Father  and  the  Son,  was  a  fulfillment 
of  the  promise  that  He  would  give  lib- 
erally to  those  that  seek  Him  with  full 
purpose  of  heart.  The  divine  personal- 
ity of  those  heavenly  beings  came 
within  the  direct  view  and  comprehen- 
sion of  this  humble  youth,  and  from 
them  he  received  a  message  of  eternal 
truth,  yea,  an  inspiration,  and  his  joy 
was  great,  and  his  heart  full  of  satis- 
faction in  contemplating  this  wonder- 
ful manifestation.  How. truly  great  it 
was  he  did  not  fully  realize  at  the  time, 
but  in  his  humility  he  was  prepared 
to  receive  further  light  and  knowledge. 

Three  years  passed  away,  we  are  in- 
formed in  the  history  of  this  mighty 
event,  and  the  Prophet  was  again  in- 
spired to  seek  the  Lord  with  fervency, 
that  his  heart  might  be  prepared  for 
greater  light,  that  the  will  of  the  Lord 
concerning  himself  and  his  future  life, 
might  be  made  known  unto  him.  The 
Lord  was  again  ready  to  answer  that 
humble  prayer,  and  He  sent  His  ser- 
vant, the  Angel  Moroni,  to  communi- 
cate with  him,  to  inform  him  of  cer- 
tain mighty  events  that  were  to  trans- 
pire in  the  near  future  pertaining  to 
the  welfare  of  the  human  family.  This 
messenger  also  informed  him  of  the 
existence  of  a  sacred  record,  which 
record  was  engraven  indelibly  upon 
metallic  plates,  whose  lustre  had  never 
been  dimmed,  whose  beautiful  charac- 
ters had  never  been  erased  nor  corrod- 
ed by  the  elements  or  time,  and  had 
received  perfect  care  which  had  pre- 
served it  with  all  its  sacred  Gospel 
principles.  This  heavenly  being  also 
gave  him  to  understand  that  he  would 
be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  of  revealing  this  great  mystery 
for  the  benefit  of  his  fellowmen,  that 
he  should  have  power  to  translate  the 
rr-tord  by  the  gift  of  God.  The  mes- 
senger also  informed  him  that  Elijah 
the  Prophet  should,  at  some  future 
time,  commit  to  him  the  keys  that 
would  unlock  the  prison  house  of  the 
dead,  and  he  should  have  power  to 
minister  for  their  redemption;  for  the 
keys  that  Elijah  should  bring  would 
turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their 


fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  their  children,  that  when  the  Lord 
should  come  in  His  glory  that  He 
should  find  faith  upon  the  earth,  and 
the  earth  should  not  be  smitten  with 
a  curse  of  unbelief.  The  young  man 
was  informed  that  he  was  to  meet  the 
messenger  at  the  place  where  the  rec- 
ords were  concealed,  once  a  year  for 
the  four  succeeding  years,  to  receive 
further  instructions  in  regard  to  their 
translation,  and  to  be  reminded  of  the 
pi  onuses  of  the  Lord  unto  him.  When 
the  four  years  had  expired,  the  Angel 
Moroni  delivered  the  plates  to  Joseph, 
and  the  record  was  afterward  duly 
translated  for  the  benefit  of  the  human 
family. 

In  the  early  history  of  the  Church, 
Kirtiand  and  the  region  round  about 
became  a  Stake  of  Zion,  and  the  Lord 
gave  a  revelation  requiring  the  Saints 
to  build  a  Temple  at  that  place.  If 
you  will  refer  to  the  history  of  the 
Church,  you  will  find  that  the  people 
actually  did  accomplish  that  great 
work  It  was  a  stupendous  work  for 
them  to  undertake,  the  building:  of  a 
house  of  such  magnitude,  in  the  days 
of  their  poverty  and  distress.  Presi- 
dent Heber  C.  Kimball  records  in  his 
journal  as  follows 

"The  work  that  we  did  in  the  day 
time  on  the  Temple  walls,  we  stood 
guard  over  at  night  with  our  fire  locks 
in  our  hands  to  prevent  them  from  be- 
ing torn  down  by  our  enemies,  and  yet 
amidst  all  this  and  the  poverty  of  the 
Saints,  and  the  fewness  of  their  num- 
bers, they  accomplished  this  work,  they 
finished  this  house  and  dedicated  it  to 
the  Lord,  and  He  accepted  of  that 
house." 

I  refer  you  now  to  the  110th  section 
of  the  Book  of  Covenants: 

"The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds, 
and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding  were 
opened.  We  saw  the  Lord  standing 
upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit  be- 
fore us.  His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of 
fire  .  .  .  and  His  voice  was  as  the 
sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters, 
even  the  voice  of  Jehovah  saying,  I 
am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  He 
who  liveth;  I  am  He  who  was  slain; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


.  .  .  for  behold,  I  have  accepted  this 
house  and  my  name  shall  be  here." 

What  a  glorious  testimony.  What 
a  marvelous  finale  this  was  to  the  ser- 
vices of  the  dedication  of  that  house. 
The  Saints  had  faith,  they  believed  He 
would  accept  of  their  labors,  but 
w'hen  He  proclaimied  before  the 
Prophet  and  Oliver  Cowdery  that  He 
had  accepted  that  house,  and 
that  His  name  was  to  be  inscribed 
thereon,  how  sublime  must  have  been 
their  feelings,  and  how  great  their  joy 
when  they  were  told  of  that  wonderful 
manifestation,  and  heard  those  words 
of  divine  acceptance  which  had  fallen 
from  the  lips  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
World. 

Now  if  you  will  again  refer  to  the 
revelation  you  will  find  the  following: 

"After  this  vision  had  closed  another 
great  and  glorious  vision  burst  upon 
us,  for  Elijah  the  Prophet,  who  was 
taken  to  heaven  without  tasting  death, 
stood  before  us  and  said,  Behold,  the 
time  is  fully  come  which  was  spoken 
of  by  the  mouth  of  Malachi,  testifying 
that  he,  Elijah,  should  be  sent  before 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  the  Avhole  earth  be  strick- 
en with  a  curse.  Therefore,  the  kevs 
of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into 
your  hands,  and  by  this  ye  may  know 
that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors." 

There  was  no  baptismal  font  in  the 
Kirtland  temple,  for  the  keys  per- 
taining to  the  ordinances  for  the  re- 
demption of  the  dead  were  not  com- 
mitted to  the  Prophet  until  after  that 
Temple  was  completed  and  dedicated. 
From  that  time  until  the  present  there 
has  been  a  baptismal  font  placed  in 
each  Temple  builded  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  order  that  sacred  ordinances 
might  be  performed  for  the  living  and 
for  the  dead. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  "Mormon- 
ism"  is  the  Gospel  of  peace,  life  and 
salvation.  It  has  never  been  a  Gospel 
of  war  or  contention.  Contention  does 
not  belong  to  the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel 
or  the  faith  of  the  Saints;  but  evil  and 


temptation  exist  in  the  world,  and 
wherever  it  is  manifest  it  is  for  the  pur- 
pose of  overthrowing  the  good,  and 
this  evil  power  has  been  fighting 
against  the  Latter-day  Saints  from 
the  beginning,  seeking  to  destroy  the 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Though  harassed  and  hated  the  work 
has  continued  to  prosper,  and  the  Lord 
has  established  His  marvelous  work 
and  wcnder  in  the  earth.  The  saying 
of  our  Savior  has  been  realized  arid 
demonstrated,  "The  world  hated  me, 
therefore  it  hateth  you."  Yet  the  Lord 
so  loved  the  world  that  He  gave  His 
beloved  Son  for  its  redemption.  The 
mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is 
now  and  always  has  been  to  try  to 
convince  the  world  that  it  is  better  to 
serve  God  than  to  serve  mammon.  But 
there  is  no  force,  no  coercion  in  this 
Gospel.  The  spirit  of  peace,  and  0f 
gentle  persuasion,  and  of  love  unfeign- 
ed is  characteristic  or'  our  leaders,  and 
it  is  pre-eminently  exemplified  in  all 
their  teachings  that  they  realize  the 
truth  of  the  doctrine  that  the  powers 
of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  heavens,  and  if  any 
man  should  desire  to  assume  unright- 
eous dominion  or  exercise  undue  au- 
thority over  his  brethren,  Amen  to 
that  man's  Priesthood.  The  "Mormon" 
Elder,  as  he  proclaims  these  grand 
principjes,  also  exemplifies  the  fact 
that  he  can  call  sinners  to  repentance, 
and  teach  them  the  better  life,  only  by 
that  spirit  of  gentle  persuasion,  which 
is  so  well  expressed  in  the  following 
lines: 

"Know  then  that  every  soul  is  free, 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be, 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given. 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 
He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright. 
Bless  him  with  wisdom,  love  and  light 
In"  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind. 
But  never  force  the  human  mind." 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 
"O,  say  what  is  truth." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Don  C.  Walker. 


ELDER  GEO.  C.  PARKINSON 


69 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  HEETING. 

In  the  Assembly  Hall  at  2  p.  m. 
Elder  George  Albert  Smith  presiding. 

The  Temple  choir  and  congregation 
sang.  "Come,  come  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear." 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Samuel  A. 

Woolley. 

The  choir  sang,  "Hushed  was  the 
evening  hymn." 

ELDER  GEORGE   C.  PARKINSON. 

(President  of  Oneida  Stake.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  in  attempt- 
ing to  say  a  few  words  this  afternoon, 
I  assure  you  I  feel  my  weakness  and 
inability,  and  trust  I  may  be  sus- 
tained by  the  same  good  spirit  which 
has  characterized  this  conference  from 
the  opening  session.  The  Oneida  Stake, 
ever  which  I  have  the  honor  to  pre- 
side, is  situated  in  Idaho.  It  occupies 
all  that  part  of  Cache  "Valley  which  is 
north  of  the  Utah  line. 

In  that  Stake  there  are  17  regularly 
organized  wards,  with  a  population  of 
6,000.  The  wards,  quorums,  and  auxil- 
iary organizations  are  all,  I  believe, 
thoroughly  organized.  The  people  feel 
well  in  relation  to  their  duties  in  tht; 
Church,  and  are,  as  a  rule,  availing 
themselves  of  the  privileges  and  bless- 
ings to  which  they  are  entitled.  The 
wards  of  the  Oneida  Stake  are  com- 
pact, I  think  the  farthest  distance 
across  the  stake,  from  north  to  south-, 
being  about  20  miles.  We  are  engaged 
largely  in  agriculture.  Our  part  of  the, 
country  is  developing  and  growing 
nicely.  We  are  interested  in  the  sub- 
ject of  irrigation,  and  have  expended, 
within  the  last  two  years,  upwards  of 
$400,000  in  the  irrigation  system,  con- 
sisting of  canals  and  reservoirs,  which 
when  completed,  after  an  expenditure 
of  another  $100,000,  will  bring  into  a 
higher  state  of  cultivation  between  30,- 
000  and  35,000  acres  of  good  land.  These 
are  inducements  to  the  homeseeker, 
those  who  are  in  search  of  good  land 
at  moderate  prices;  and  we  extend 
the  invitation  to  all  such  to  come  and 
make  their  homes  with  us.     We  are 


building  good  meeting-houses  ana 
school-houses,  as  well  as  other  im- 
provements of  a  public  character.  Oui 
people  are  thrifty.  I  think  I  am  safe 
in  saying  that  fully  90  per  cent  of  all 
the  people  who  reside  within  the  Oneida. 
Stake  are  members  of  the  Church. 

Our  schools  are  in  a  very  creditable 
condition.  We  have  established  an 
academy  at  Preston,  the  headquarters 
of  the  Stake.  The  home  of  this  insti- 
tution, a  cut  stone  building,  cost  the 
people  in  the  neighborhood  of  $50,000.  It 
is  attended  today  by  about  300  students. 
The  institution  is  offering  courses  in 
High  school  and  Normal  work,  also 
manual  training  and  missionary  cours- 
es. I  think  it  was  announced  at  this 
conference  that  the  Oneida  stake  has 
the  credit  of  heading  the  list  as  to 
the  number  of  young  men  taking  the 
missionary  course  in  the  Church 
schools.  We  have  100  young  men 
and  young  women  engaged  in  the 
manual  training  division  of  the  school, 
and  they  are  doing  very  excellent 
work.  The  spirit  of  the  institution  is 
felt  in  every  ward,  and  in  every  home, 
for  good.  It  is  turning  out  men  and 
women  qualified  to  take  up  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  life,  in  the  school  room 
as  teachers,  the  counting  house,  the 
carpenter  shops,  and  young  men  are 
going  from  there  into  all  parts  of  the 
world  to  carry  the  message  of  glad 
tidings  to  the  nations.  We  have  to- 
day in  the  neighborhood  of  90  mission- 
aries from  Oneida  stake  in  the  world 
preaching  the  Gospel.  This  is  a  record 
of  which  we  are  proud. 

So  far  as  I  know,  the  people  are 
united;  they  feel  well,  and  are  active 
in  the  discharge  of  their  duties.  The 
attention  of  the  local  authorities  is  oc- 
cupied largely  with  the  young  people, 
especially  those  bearing  the  .Lesser 
Priesthood,  in  teaching,  training  and 
educating  them  along  the  lines  of  their 
duties  in  connection  with  the  responsi- 
bilities of  the  Priesthood  which  they 
bear.  It  is  a  joy  to  me  to  associate 
with  the  Saints  of  God.  I.  am  very 
grateful  that  I  am  considered  worthy 
of  a  standing  and  membership  in  the 
midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  am  thankful  that  there  has  come 
to  my  understanding  a  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel,  a  testimony  of  its  divinity, 
and  I  have  no  aim  higher  than  to  he 
faithful,  to  be  constant  in  season  and 
out  in  the  discharge  of  duty,  leading 
men  and  women,  and  especially  the 
young  people  in  our  midst,  in  the  right 
way.    The  work  of  the  Lord  is  grow- 
ing, it  is  becoming     magnified  and 
stronger   day   by  day.     It  is   not  as 
some  people  uninterested  in  its  suc- 
cess would  make  themselves  believe, 
waning,  losing  prestige  and  strength  in 
the  world.    On  the  contrary  the  work 
of  the  Lord  is  gaining  ground  at  home 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  abroad  in 
the  world.    I  bear  witness  before  this 
vast  congregation   that  I   know  God 
lives.    I  know  that  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord.    I  know  that  those  who  are  sus- 
tained by  the  prayers  and  confidence 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  the  author- 
ities  of  the  Church   are  inspired  of 
God;  they  are  endorsed  by  Him;  they 
enjoy     the     inspiration  of  His  Holy 
Spirit.    It  is  a  pleasure  to  me  to  listen 
to    their   teachings,    to    accept  their 
counsel,  to  reduce  it  to  practice  in  that 
which  pertains  to  my  interest  in  life. 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  and 
sustain  them,  and  give  them  greater 
inspiration;  and  that  He  may  bless  His 
people.     His   cause;    that   the  truth 
may  be  made   known,   and  that  the 
Church  of  Christ  may  have  greater 
power,  greater  influence,  greater  pres- 
tige for  good   in  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  as  well  as  at  home  where  it  is 
more  thoroughly  established.    May  His 
peace  and  blessings  be  in  our  midst 
and  abide  with  us  always,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  McLACHLAN. 

(President  of  Pioneer  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  rising 
before  you  this  afternoon,  I  desire  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  shall  prompt  the 
words  that  I  shall  utter.  I  have  no  de- 
sire to  say  anything  to  the  people  in 
and  of  myself,  for  I  have  found  out  by 


experience  that  nothing  but  the  Spirit 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  en- 
lighten the  minds  of  the  children  of 
men,  and  bless  them  permanently. 

There  is  a  revelation  in  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  &  Covenants  from  which  I 
shall  read  the  first  verse,  contained  in 
the  ninety-third  section: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  it  shrill 
come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who  for- 
saketh  their  sins  and  cometh  unto  rue 
and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth 
my  voice  and  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, shall  see  my  face  and  know  that 
I  am." 

This  is  a  passage  that  has  interested 
me  very  much  of  late.  I  have  had  a 
constant  and  increasing  desire  grow 
up  in  my  heart  to  obtain  the  testimony 
that  is  promised  unto  those  who  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  to  behold 
the  face  of  Him  who  came  into  ihe 
world  in  the  meridian  of  time,  and  who 
did  so  much  for  you  and  for  me.  I 
desire  to  live  in  harmony  with  the  Lord, 
so  that  I  can  receive,  in  His  own  due 
time,  this  testimony,  that  shall  enable 
me  to  bear  record  of  Him  in  truth. 
While  I  know  by  the  revelation  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  that  this  is  His  work,  I 
also  know  that  it  has  been  promised 
in  His  word  through  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith,  that  the  Second  Comforter 
will  come  unto  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  kept  the  commandments  of 
God,  who  have  been  steadfast  in  their 
faith  in  His  work. 

I  have  never  had  any  desire  to 
criticise  or  find  fault  with  those 
who  preside  over  me.  On  the 
contrary,  I  have  had  a  constant  desire 
to  yield  intelligent  obedience  to  their 
counsel  and  instructions,  and  to  fol- 
low them  sooner  than  I  would  follow 
my  own  inclinations,  sooner  than  I 
would  do  my  own  will.  I  desire  that 
this  spirit  shall  increase  within  me 
while  I  live  upon  the  earth,  that  I  may 
be  found  faithful  and  true  in  every 
particular,  valiant  in  defending  the 
truth  that  God  has  revealed,  and  in 
sustaining  it  by  practice  in  my  own 
life. 

When  I  was  a  boy,  about  19  years 
of  age,  I  received  a  testimony  of  the 


ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL, 


71 


truth  of  this  work,  through  obedience 
to  the  word  of  God.  That  testimony 
was  given  to  me  for  my  individual  ben- 
efit, and  I  have  found  it  a  great  bless- 
ing and  comfort  all  through  my  life. 
Had  it  not  been  for  this  first  testimony 
that  God  gave  me  in  my  youth,  I  do 
not  know  where  I  would  have  been  to- 
day; but  it  has  preserved  me,  it  has 
kept  me  stable  and  true  to  His  work, 
willing  to  obey  and  to  carry  out  the 
counsels  of  His  will;  and  I  feel  today 
more  willing  than  I  have  ever  done  in 
my  past  life  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord  in 
whatever  service  He  requires  of  me.  I 
trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
will  ever  strive  to  overcome  our  weak- 
nesses, and  bring  into  subjection  tu 
His  will  every  inclination,  every  desire, 
every  propensity  or  passion  that  would 
hinder  the  development  of  the  powers 
He  has  implanted  within  us,  not  only 
for  our  own  benefit  but  for  the  good 
and  blessing  . and  salvation  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  We  have  received  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God. 
That  Priesthood  twas  given  to  you 
and  to  me  for  a  purpose,  not  to  gratify 
our  own  desires  but  to  so  live  that 
the  Priesthood  should  be  magnified  in 
the  eyes  of  the  people  for  the  glory  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  the  building  up  01 
His  work,  and  the  salvation  of  His 
children.  That  man  who  does  the  most 
good  towards  the  salvation  of  his  fel- 
low men,  that  carries  out  the  precepts 
of  the  Savior  in  this  great  and  glori- 
ous work,  is  the  one  that  will  be  most 
approved  by  Heaven,  because  he  hath 
assisted  the  Redeemer  in  accomplish- 
ing His  purposes  relative  to  His  chil- 
dren. 

I  do  not  desire  to  occupy  more  time 
this  afternoon.  I  feel  satisfied  with 
my  file  leaders,  with  those  that  have 
been  called  to  preside  over  us;  I  came, 
here  in  the  days  of  President  Brigham 
Young.  I  considered  him  one  of  the 
greatest  men  that  I  ever  became  ac- 
quainted with  in  my  life.  I  see  many 
things  in  his  career,  in  his  counsel,  and 
in  his  life  to  admire  today.  So  also 
those  that  have  followed  him,  because 
of  their  fidelity  and  integrity  and  de- 
votion to  the  work  of  the  Lord.    I  love 


to  associate  with  men  who  are  true, 
who  are  obedient,  who  are  humble,  and 
who  cultivate  a  spirit  that  is  ready 
and  willing  to  do  the  bidding  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  under  all  circum- 
stances and  conditions. 

That  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  may  be 
upon  this  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
in  all  their  abiding  places  throughout 
these  mountain  valleys,  in  all  the  dif- 
ferent stakes  in  which  they  are  located, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 

(President  of  St.  Joseph  Stake.) 

It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  come 
up  to  headquarters  and  see  my  friends, 
and  mingle  with  the  Saints  of  God.  I 
was  raised  here  in  Salt  Lake,  and  as- 
sociated with  the  people  throughout 
the  various  stakes  of  Zion,  in  traveling 
and  in  missionary  work,  for  many 
years,  and  now  my  abode  is  in  Arizona. 
I  have  always  fraid,  it  mattered  iittle 
to  me  where' I  lived  so  long  as  I  could 
be  associated  with  my  people. 

I  am  happy  in  my  relations  with  the 
Saints  of  God  in  the  St.  Joseph  stake 
of  Zion,  in  Arizona.  Utah  is  dear  to 
me,  but  Arizona  today  is  still  dearer. 
My  interests  and  my  home  are  there. 
As  much  as  I  love  the  place  of  my 
birth,  and  my  many  former  friends 
and  associates,  there  is  no  people  so 
dear  to  me  as  the  Latter-day  Saints 
with  whom  I  am  associated  in  the 
stake  of  Zion  where  I  am  permitted  to 
preside,  and  the  good  people  who  are 
not  of  our  faith,  in  the  territory  of 
Arizona.  I  am  somewhat  acquainted 
with  the  inhabitants  of  these  great 
mountain  valleys,  of  the  intermountain 
west,  and  in  some  of  the  states  as  far 
east  as  the  Mississippi  river;  but,  in 
all  my  travels  I  don't  know  that  I 
ever  came  in  contact  with  people  so 
generous,  so  highminded  and  so  liberal 
as  are  the  Arizonians.  The  Arizona 
people,  I  mean  those  who  have  come 
from  other  sections  of  the  world  and 
now  reside  there,  partake  of  the  in- 
fluence of  that  ]«oad  country.  Their 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


feelings  accord  with  the  breadth  of 
the  acres  in  that  great,  wide  territory 
of  ours,  and  their  deep  and  generous 
natures  resemble  the  gorges  of  the 
grand  old  Colorado.  We  live  in  per- 
fect harmony  with  the  people  of  Ari- 
zona who  are  not  of  the  religious  faith 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  was  my  privilege  recently  to  read 
a  brief  history  of  the  territory,  and 
of  the  settlement  of  that  country,  com- 
piled by  the  Historians'  Society,  the 
"Pioneers  of  Arizona."  In  every  part 
of  the  history  that  mentions  the  es- 
tablishment of  a  settlement  or  mining 
camp,  or  any  industry  they  give  the 
"Mormon"  people  due  credit,  and 
speak  of  them  in  the  highest  terms, 
which  I  of  course,  know  that  they  de- 
serve. We  do  not  always  get  this  re- 
cognition, but  as  a  rule,  this  people, 
from  the  governor  down,  are  friendly, 
broad-minded,  liberal  and  generous  to 
us.  I  desire  to  have  the  people  of 
Utah  know  that  Arizona  is  only  second 
to  Utah  in  population,  resources,  sur- 
roundings, and  environments.  Its  peo- 
ple are  in  every  way  the  equal  of  those 
in  this  grand  old  state  of  Utah. 

The  St.  Joseph  stake  of  Zion  is  in- 
creasing. Only  recently  it  was  my 
privilege  to  organize  a  ward  in  the 
district  of  country  above  the  canal 
system,  in  the  Artesian  belt,  and  the 
quotation  came  to  my  mind  then,  from 
the  Prophet  Isaiah,  where  he  said  that 
"water  should  spring  out  of  the  earth, 
and  the  desert  should  blossom  as  the 
rose."  And  here,  out  among  the  cac- 
tus, the  mesquite,  the  lizards,  and  the 
dry  sandy  soil,  where  our  brethren 
h£ve  driven  down  iron  pipes  in  the 
earth,  the  artesian  water  comes  pure 
and  sparkling,  bubbling  and  pouring 
up  to  the  surface;  and  now  we  have 
organized  a  strong  ward  there.  Just 
before  I  left  home,  I  went  a  short  dis- 
tance from  this  settlement  to  another 
one,  by  the  name  of  Artesia,  where 
we  organized  a  branch  and  coupled  it 
on  to  the  ward  that  I  have  spoken  of. 
A  few  years  ago  some  colonizers  from 
the  east  had  come  in  and  taken  up 
this  land,  driven  pipes  and  made 
wells,  and  endeavored  to  build  a  town 


or  a  village,  but  they  couldn't  do  it. 
It  takes  "Mormons"  to  subdue  the 
desert,  the  unity  and  co-operation  of 
"Mormon"  people.  It  seems  to  me  that 
they  are  the  only  people  that  could 
ever  have  subdued  this  great  inter- 
mountain  desert.  In  this  effort  of  our 
friends,  they  failed;  some  of  them 
fought  and  killed  each  other,  and  the 
survivors  became  disgusted  and  sold 
out  their  holdings  to  our  people.  It 
was  my  privilege  to  go  and  assist  them 
and  fix  up  their  affairs.  We  formed  a 
little  branch  of  the  Church  there,  and 
they  gave  five  acres  of  ground  to  build 
a  meetinghouse  on,  and  another  of  our 
Gentile  friends  offered  five  acres  more, 
which  we  did  not  need.  We  expect  to 
subdue  that  land,  and  we  are  producing 
now  nearly  everything  that  is  neces- 
sary for  the  people.  We  have  ai  valley 
of  about  forty  to  fifty  miles  in  length, 
through  which  the  Gila  river  flows. 
That  is  a  river  heading  out  in  Colorado 
and  New  Mexico,  and  continuing  in  its 
course  till  it  empties  into  the  Colorado 
on  the  borders  of  California.  We  have 
been  using  the  land  there  for  raising 
alfalfa,  and  other  crops  that  are  easy 
to  take  care  of,  but  we  are  endeavoring 
now  to  start  fruit  raising.  It  was  my 
pleasure  before  leaving  home  to  trim 
600  trees  upon  my  own  place,  besides 
farming,  attending  to  my  garden,  and 
fixing  up  everything  so  that  I  could 
leave  for  a  short  time.  When  we  left 
alfalfa  was  nearly  in  blossom,  trees 
were  in  foliage,  and  the  country  was 
covered  with  a  beautiful  carpet  of 
green,  livened  up  here  and  there  by 
patches  of  beautiful  flowers,  with  the 
cacti  and  poppies  on  the  side  hills; 
everything  was  lovely,  -beautiful  and 
thrifty.  We  have  had  a  wet  season, 
plenty  of  moisture,  and  grass  and  ev- 
erything in  the  fields  is  in  a  very  for- 
ward condition.  We  have  suffered 
somewhat  from  floods  washing  out 
dams,  but  we  are  learning  how  to  build 
new  ones  better. 

This,  we  might  say,  is  the  temporal 
side  of  affairs,  but  I  attribute  the  suc- 
cess of  the  "Mormon"  people,  in  this 
and  other  sections  of  the  country,  to 
their  obedience  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 


ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 


73 


Christ.  I  have  listened  to  arguments 
of  sectarians,  and  others  who!  have  en- 
deavored to  draw  people  together  and 
co-operate  to  build  up  communities,  but 
I  have  said  to  them,  and  would  state 
it  to  all  the  world,  they  can  never  suc- 
ceed in  co-operation,  subdue  the  desert 
and  build  up  homes  therein,  except  by 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  fellowship  that  comes 
in  love  for  that  Gospel.  It  can  only  be 
done  on  principles  of  righteousness, 
submission  and  obedience,  by  subduing 
ourselves,  and  bringing  ourselves  into 
subjection  to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Our  people  are  united.  They  have 
put  themselves  in  order,  and  have  en- 
deavored to  obey  the  laws  of  the  Gospel. 
This  is  particularly  true  of  our  High 
Councilors  and  Bishops;  they  are  pro- 
gressive, noble  men,  looking  after  the 
interests  of  the  various  wards,  branches 
and  organizations  among  the  people 
over  whom  they  are  presiding,  and  we 
are  just  like  one  great  family  of  nearly 
four  thousand  people.  I  feel  like  I 
could  put  my  arms  around  them  and 
love  them  all;  and  I  strongly  think  that 
they  love  me.  If  I  did  not  feel  that  I 
had  their  love  and  their  confidence,  I 
would  want  to  move  away  from  Ari- 
zona. 

We  are  united  and  in  harmony  in 
striving  to  build  up,  in  that  part  of  the 
world,  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  sustain 
not  only  each  other  but  also  our 
Prophet  and  President,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  and  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  We  sustain  the  presi- 
dencies of  missions  by  sending  our  El- 
ders to  them  to  preach  the  Gospel.  I 
have  brought  with  me  from  that  coun- 
try on  this  trip  20  boys  and  girls  who 
have  come  up  to  the  Temple,  and 
the  boys  are  going  on  missions.  I 
never  saw  such  happy  responses  to 
missionary  calls  in  my  life,  and  for 
twelve  and  a  half  years  I  presided 
over  what  is  now  the  Middle  States 
mission.  The  Presidency  of  the  Church 
called  upon  our  stake  for  ten  mission- 
aries, and  in  almost  less  time  than  it 
took  to  get  an  exchange  of  mail  there 
were  14  who  responded.    In  nearly  all 


instances  the  call  had  been  answered 
not  alone  by  letters,  but  the  boys  have 
come  and  answered  in  person,  and  they 
are  here  ready  to  go  anywhere  that  the 
Priesthood  of  God  desires  them.  That 
is  the  kind  of  response  that  I  love  to 
witness.  I  say,  God  bless  the  youth 
of  Zion.  I  am  not  discouraged  in  the 
boys  and  girls  of  this  Church,  for  I 
have  found  that  there  is  the  spirit  of 
patriotism  and  the  love  of  the  Gospel 
in  them.  They  may  not  be  doing  just 
as  well  as  some  older  members;  they 
may  have  fallen  into  some  "foolish 
habits,  which  we  could  possibly  ex- 
cuse under  some  circumstances;  but  I 
tell  you  there  is  determination  to  do 
their  duty  when  they  are  willing  to 
drop  everything,  leave  their  young 
wives,  their  mothers,  fathers,  brothers 
and  sisters,  property  interests  and  eve- 
rything that  is  dear  to  them,  not  know- 
ing what  is  ahead  of  them,  taking  their 
lives  in  their  hands,  and  going  to  the 
different  nations  of  the  earth  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  That  is  the  kind  of  people 
we  have  in  the  Church  down  in  Ari- 
zona. The  climate  there  is  warm; 
we  have  genial  sunshine,  and  that  has 
some  effect  upon  the  people.  They  are 
warm  hearted,  generous,  good,  and 
faithful.  I  am  willing  that  my  lot 
should  continue  to  be  cast  with  the 
people  of  Arizona,  and  I  am  willing 
that  my  bones  should  be  buried  there. 
I  say  God  bless  them,  and  bless  you 
all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER   SOLOMON  HALE. 

My  brothers  and  sisters:  I  am  afraid 
that  you  may  not  be  able  to  hear  me, 
for  since  I  have  reached  the  city  of 
the  Saints,  I  have  been  suffering  with 
a  very  severe  cold  on  my  lungs;  but  I 
am  pleased  to  make  a  few  remarks 
and  bear  my  testimony  to  the  Gospel. 
It  nvould  be  working  a  hardship  upon 
me  if  I  were  to  talk  very  long,  but  it 
is  an  easy  matter  for  me  to  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  work. 
It  has  been  67  years  since  I  became 
a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  When  I 
was  in  my  youth  I  was  acquainted  with 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


74 

the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  I  was 
acquainted  with  his  wife  and  family. 
I  was  also  acquainted  with  the  Patri- 
arch, Hyrum,  but  not  so  intimately 
with  him  as  I  was  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  Since  then  it  has  been  my 
happy  lot  to  have  been  closely  asso- 
ciated and  personally  acquainted  with 
every  one  of  the  Presidents  of  the 
Church,  from  the  time  that  the  Prophet 
was  martyred  in  Carthage  jail  up  toi 
the  uresent.  I  knew  Joseph  F.  Smith 
in  Nauvoo,  and  his  brother,  the  Patri- 
arch, John.  I  have  been  acquainted 
with  them  and  know  their  worth,  their 
integrity,  their  faithfulness,  and  I  pray 
God  to  bless  them.  He  has  guarded  and 
directed  them.  Now  we  have  among 
the  leaders  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  two  more 
of  the  Smith  family.  We  had,  in  my 
youth,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
the  Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith.  Now  the 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of  th<> 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  John 
Smith  is  the  presiding  Patriarch  of  the 
Church.  I  feel  well  in  the  Gospel.  I 
bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  in~  humility,  that  I  know 
the  work  of  God  is  true.  From  the 
early  days  of  my  youth  I  have  always 
sustained  the  work.  God  knows  my 
heart,  He  knows  that  I  never  betrayed 
the  Prophet  or  people  of  God.  I  have 
known  them,  I  have  prayed  for  them. 
I  have  traveled  with  President  Young 
thousands  of  miles.  I  know  his  worth. 
I  know  the  worth  of  these  two  Kim- 
ball brothers  here,  and  their  father, 
Heber  C.  Kimball.  I  know  that  he 
was  a  man  of  God  and  a  Prophet  of 
God,  as  much  as  any  one  ever  raised 
up  in  this  dispensation  of  the  fullness 
of  times.  May  God  bless  and  help  us 
to  be  faithful  and  true  to  one  another, 
be  true  to  the  Priesthood,  true  to  God 
our  Eternal  Father,  that  we  may  claim 
every  blessing  He  has  in  store  ror  us 
as  faithful  sons  and  daughters,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

In  standing  before  the  Latter-day 
Saints  this  afternoon,  I  desire  to  say 
those  things  that  are  timely,  and  to 
speak  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  Notwithstanding  the  serious- 
ness of  the  occasion,  having  met  as  a 
part  of  the  great  Annual  Conference, 
we  need  not  pull  long  faces  and  put  on 
an  air  of  self  righteousness,  thinking 
it  indicates  faith  and  is  more  pleasing 
to  the  Lord.  The  Lord  has  said,  "Cease 
from  your  light  speeches,  and  excess  of 
laughter,"  but  He  surely  is  pleased 
with  pleasant  countenances  and  a  hap- 
py people,  although  wit  and  humor, 
may  be  out  of  place  in  houses  of  wor- 
ship. I  read  somewhere  the  follow- 
ing: "Many  persons  who  never  had 
a  bright  idea  in  their  heads,  or  a  gen- 
erous sentiment  in  their  hearts,  assum- 
ing an  air  of  owlish  wisdom,  affect  to 
disdain  wit  and  humor,  having  never 
heard  of  the  great  truth  enunciated  by 
Charles  Lamb:  'A  laugh  is  worth  a 
hundred  groans  in  any  market.'  The 
idea  is  propagated  that  mutual  dry- 
ness is  indicative  of  wisdom."  I  re- 
alize that  my  reputation  for  wisdom 
has  been  greatly  injured  by  repeating 
jokes  in  my  public  utterances,  and 
that,  because  of  my  calling  in  the  min- 
istry, I  should,  in  the  estimation  of 
some  people,  be  as  solemn  as  an  owl. 

It  seems  to  be  the  destiny  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  to  suffer  sickness,  sorrow, 
pain  and  poverty,  and  to  die.  With 
our  most  perfect  organization,  Priest- 
hood and  authority,  we  still  have  trou- 
bles, and  skeletons  in  our  closets.  It 
is  considered  a  good  thing  to  look  wise, 
especially  when  not  over  burdened  with 
information. 

It  is  my  good  fortune  to  be  acquaint- 
ed with  some  of  the  unpleasant  feat- 
ures of  Arizona.  My  brother  Andrew, 
who  has  just  preceded  me,  as  one  of 
the  speakers,  has  expatiated  on  the 
sunshine  and  splendor  of  Arizona  to  so 
great  an  extent  that  I  am  fearful  the 
good  people  of  Utah  will  stampede  and 
wend  their  way  southward  to  that  hap- 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


75 


py  land.  My  brother  comes  from  a 
sunshiny  clime,  and  to  an  Arizonan 
there  are  no  clouds;  the  truth  is,  they 
don't  know  ' when  they  are  in  trouble. 
He  has  recited  all  the  good  things;  he 
is  an  optimist. 

Allow  me  to  relate  an  experience  in 
that  far  distant  land.  At  a  Stake 
Quarterly  Conference,  held  at  Thatcher, 
we  were  caught  in  a  windstorm  when 
the  sun  was  shining.  My  ears,  mouth, 
and  eyes  and  clothing  were  loaded 
with  sand,  and  yet  my  brother  said, 
"I  never  saw  anything  like  it  before." 
I  desire  to  make  a  statement  here  in 
explanation  of  something  that  I  said 
in  the  conference  meeting  on  Friday. 

I  have  learned  that  some  of  the 
greatest  miracles  and  most  marvelous 
events  have  happened  to  the  servants 
of  God  when  they  were  placed  in  jail 
for  righteousness  sake.  Some  of  the 
greatest  revelations  that  God  has  ever 
given  in  this  age  and  dispensation  were 
given  to  the  Prophet  of  God  when  he 
was  in  jail,  in  trouble  and  difficulty. 
During  his  time  of  sorrow  and  loneli- 
ness, God,  the  Father,  came  to  him,  by 
His  Spirit,  and  he  received  marvelous 
revelations.  I  read  in  the  Bible  about 
Peter  being  imprisoned,  and  an  angel  of 
God.  coming  to  his  rescue.  He  was 
taken  through  the  great  iron  gates,  and 
escaped  when  his  enemies  were  desir- 
ous of  taking  his  life.  I  read  also  about 
the  prophets  of  God  in  the  days  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  history.  Prisons  were 
broken  down,  and  manifestations  of 
God  were  made  apparent  to  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Most  High.  An  incident 
happened  in  the  Southern  States  mis- 
sion, which  I  will  relate.  It  trans- 
pired in  the  days  of  President  John 
Morgan,  and  occurred  at  a  time  when 
the  State  of  Tennessee  passed  a  law 
that  any  man  who  advocated  or 
preached  polygamy  was  to  be  arrest- 
ed and  punished.  Enemies  to  the  El- 
ders entrapped  the  brethren  into  a  dis- 
cussion on  this  most  unpopular  sub- 
ject, and  the  Elders  defended  the  prin- 
ciple from  a  Biblical  standpoint.  A 


complaint  was  filed,  and  the  Elders 
were  arrested.  They  were  short  of 
room  inside  the  jail,  so  the  brethren, 
two  in  number,  were  confined  in  two 
steel  cages  on  the  outside,  near  to 
each  other.  The  imprisoned  servants 
of  the  Lord  were  not  orators  or  singers. 
The  people  far  and  near,  hearing  of 
Mormon  Elders  being  under  arrest, 
gathered  to  see  these  peculiar  individ- 
uals. The  brethren  sang  hymns  and 
testified  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel, 
etc.  It  is  claimed  they  had  congrega- 
tions of  300,  and  I  have  been  told  that 
the  people  had  never  heard  such  won- 
derful preaching  and  singing.  The  El- 
ders almost  regretted  receiving  their 
freedom.  So  I  am  almost  inclined  to 
advocate  putting  our  Elders  in  jail 
once  in  a  while,  when  they  are  unable 
to  get  a  hearing  in  any  other  way. 

I  remember  about  the  time  I  was  re- 
leased from  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion, we  had  just  commenced  to  preach 
in  the  cities  of  the  South.  Two  of  our 
Elders  were  arrested  in  Birmingham 
because  they  were  preaching  the 
Gospel  Avithout  purse  or  scrip. 
They  were  arrested  and  placed 
in  prison  for  violating  what 
was  claimed  to  be  a  city  ordinance. 
Friends  came  to  their  rescue  and  they 
were  released.  Had  they  remained  for 
a  short  time,  in  my  opinion  it  would 
have  resulted  in  much  good,  although 
very  unpleasant  and  hard  on  the  El- 
ders. 

I  want  to  ask  in  all  soberness,  if  you 
think  this  Gospel  that  has  been  reveal- 
ed by  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  can  be  advocated  and 
preached  among  the  children  of  men 
without  serious  consequences?  I  tell  you 
if  our  Elders  go  out  and  advocate 
the  truth  of  this  work,  it  will  bring  up- 
on them  persecution,  and  whippings. 
It  may  not  be  the  better  element  who 
will  do  that,  they  never  have  whipped 
our  Elders;  it  has  generally  been  the 
same  class  as  those  who  are  killing  the 
negroes  in  the  South;  but  the  people 
•winked  at  it.    I  was  almost  a  witness 


76 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


to  the  killing  of  our  Elders  in  Ten- 
nessee, on  Cane  Creek,  and  I  know 
something  about  the  spirit  of  mobo- 
cracy. 

Now  I  will  read  to  you  to  show  that 
there  will  come  sorrows  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  trials,  and  tests.  Every 
man  in  this  Church  will  be  tested  to 
the  core;  they  will  be  proven  as  Abra- 
ham was  proven,  and  when  the  Lord  is 
satisfied  that  you  love  Him  and  will 
keep  His  commandments,  then  He  will 
come  to  your  rescue.  Somebody  has 
said  that  Heber  C.  Kimball  was  a 
Prophet,  and  I  am  going  to  prove  it. 
He  is  my  father,  and  I  tell  you  I  am 
glad  I  am  his  son.  I  have  the  copy 
of  a  discourse  he  delivered  in  1867,  one 
year  before  his  death.  There  were  no 
such  buildings  here  then  as  this;  it 
was  in  the  old  tabernacle. 

"President  Kimball  opened  by  stat- 
ing that  there  were  many  within  hear- 
ing who  had  often  wished  that  they 
had  been  associated  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  'You  imagine,'  said  he,  'that 
you  would  have  stood  by  him  when 
persecution  raged,  and  he  was  assailed 
by  foes  within  and  without.  You 
would  have  defended  him,  and  been 
true  to  him  in  the  midst  of  every  trial. 
You  think  you  would  have  been  delight- 
ed to  have  shown  your  integrity  in 
the  das's  of  mobs  and  traitors.  Let  me 
say  to  you,  that  many  of  you  will  see 
the  time  when  you  will  have  all  the 
trouble,  trial  and  persecution  that  you 
can  stand,  and  plenty  of  opportunities 
to  show  that  you  are  true  to  God  and 
His  work.  This  Church  has  before  it 
many  close  places,  through  which  it 
will  have  to  pass  before  the  worn:  of 
God  is  crowned  with  victory.  To  meet 
the  difficulties  that  are  coming  [see, 
they  are- to  come,  they  are  not  behind 
you,  but  they  are  coming]  it  will  be 
necessary  for  you  to  have  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth  of 'this  work  for  yourselves: 
the  difficulties  will  be  of  such  a  char- 
acter that  the  man  or  woman  who  r'oes 
not  possess  this  personal  knowledge  or 
witness  will  fall.  If  you  have  not 
got  the  testimony,  live  right,  and  call 
upon  the  Lord  and  cease  not  until  you 
obtain  it.  If  you  do  not  you  will  not 
stand.  That  is  the  word  of  God  to  you 
people.  Remember  these  sayings,  for 
many  of  you  will  live  to  see  them  ful- 
filled. The  time  will  come  when  no 
man  nor  woman  will  be  able  to  en- 
dure on  borrowed  light.  Each  will  have 


to  be  guided  by  the  light  within  him- 
self. If  you  do  not  have  it  how  can 
you  stand?  Do  you  believe  it'  How 
is  it  now?  You  have  the  First  Pres 
idency,  from  whom  you  can  get  coun- 
sel to  guide  you,  and  you  rely  on  them 
The  time  will  come  when  they  will  not 
be  with  you.  Why?  Because  they  will 
have  to  flee  and  hide  up  to  keep  out 
of  the  hands  of  their  enemies.  You 
have  the  Twelve  now.  You  will 
not  always  have  them,  for  they,  too 
will  be  hunted  and  will  have  to  keep 
out  of  the  way  of  their  enemies.  You 
have  other  men  to  whom  you  look  for 
counsel  and  advice.  Many  of  them  will 
not  be  amongst  you,  for  the  same  rea- 
son. You  will  be  left  to  the  light  with- 
in yourselves.  If  you  don't  have  it, 
you  will  not  stand.  Therefore,  seek  for 
the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  cleave  to 
it,  that  when  the  trying  time  comes 
you  may  not  stumble  and  fall." 

I  ask  you,  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
here,  Have  you  lived  long  enough  to 
see  that  prophecy  fulfilled.  There  is  not 
a  man,  woman  or  child  that  has  got 
the  least  particle  of  intelligence  but 
knows  that  has  been  literally  fulfilled. 
The  time  came  when  we  did  not  have 
the  First  Presidency,  neither  did  we 
have  the  Twelve,  they  had  to  flee  for 
safety,  every  one  of  them;  and  the  peo- 
ple were  left  to  themselves.  ♦ 

In  the  course  of  his  remarks  on  the 
occasion  in  point,  he  several  times  said: 
"You  will  have  all  the  persecution  you 
want,  and  more,  too,  and  all  the  oppor- 
tunities to  show  your  integrity  to  God 
and  the  truth  that  you  could  desire." 

I  will  quote  to  you  another  prophecy. 
In  1856,  a  little  group  of  friends  con- 
vened in  the  Endowment  House,  and 
were  engaged  in  a  conversation  on  the 
isolated  condition  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"Y"es,"  said  Brother  Heber,  by 
which  name  he  was  so  familiarly 
known,  "we  think  we  are  secure  here 
in  the  chambers  of  the  everlasting  hills, 
where  we  can  close  those  few  doors  of 
the  canyons  against  mobs  and  perse- 
cutors, the  wicked  and  the  vile  who 
have  always  beset  us  with  violence  and 
robbery;  but  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren,  the  time  is  coming  when  we 
will  be  mixed  up  in  these  now  peace- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


77 


ful  valleys  to  that  extent  that  it  will 
be  difficult  to  tell  the  face  of  a  Saint 
from  the  face  of  an  enemy  to  the  peo- 
ple of  God.  Then,  brethren,  look  out 
for  the  great  sieve,  for  there  will  be  a 
great  sifting  time,  and  many  will  fall, 
for  I  say  unto  you,  there  is  a'  test,  a 
TEST,  a  TEST,  coming,  and  who  will 
be  able  to  stand?" 

My  mother  has  told  me  that  the  last 
time  father  took  a  walk  down  Main 
Street,  after  he  was  stricken  with 
paralysis,  he  returned  with  difficulty 
back  to  his  home,  the  residence  which 
still  stands  on  the  hill,  and  he  said  to 
her,  "OH,  THE  TEST,  THE  TEST, 
THE  TEST,  who  will  be  able  to 
stand?"  Mother  said,  "What  is  the 
test?"  He  replied,  "I  don't  know,  but 
it  is  only  those  that  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  that  can  stand." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  time 
for  hard  thinking.  This  is  not  Jo- 
seph Smith's  church,  nor  Brigham 
Young's  church;  they  never  made  any 
such  a  claim.  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God,  and  the  people  made 
him  President  of  the  Church.  This  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  It  is  not  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith's  church,  nor  the  Twelve 
Apostles'  church.  They  are  the  ser- 
vants of  the  people;  they  are  men 
called  of  God,  just  as  our  Elders  are 
called  to  fill  missions.  They  are  or- 
dained by  divine  authority,  and  have 
received  these  great  appointments  in 
the  Apostleship  and  in  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church;  but  it  is  not  their 
church.  As  I  have  said,  it  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  each  of  us 
has  individual  work  in  it.  If  the 
Latter-day  Saints  do  not  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  this  is  His 
Church,  I  tell  you,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  you  will  not  stand,  you  will  be 
among  the  number  that  will  fall.  I 
remember  hearing  about  a  saying  of 
President  Young  to  a  brother  who  was 
terribly  tried.  The  case  came  before 
the  High  Council,  and  the  council  had 
decided  against  the  man.  You  know  it 
happens  sometimes,  when  the  decision 
is  not  in  your  favor,  you  feel  dis- 
gruntled; and  some  leave  the  Church 
because  of  the  actions  of  men;  they 


feel  they  have  been  dealt  with  unjust- 
ly. Brother  Brigham,  on  the  occasion 
referred  to,  said  to  the  brother  in  sar- 
casm, "Now  apostatize  and  go  to  hell." 
And  the  brother  ejaculated,  "I  won't 
do  it;  this  is  just  as  much  my  church 
as  it  is  yours,  and  I  am  going  to  stay 
with  it."  Well,  that  is  Mormonism; 
it  is  our  Church,  as  long  as  we  keep 
the  comandments  of  God;  and  we  can 
be  put  out  of  it  only  through  aposta- 
sy, rebellion,  or  criminal  actions.  Now 
let  us  stay  with  it,  and,  like  my  brother 
Andrew,  always  tell  good  things  about 
Zion  and  let  other  things  alone.  The 
Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

I  have  felt  very  much  impressed,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  listening  to  the 
remarks  that  have  been  made  by  our 
brethren    this    afternoon.     I  rejoiced 
greatly  in   hearing  the  testimony  of 
Brother    Solomon   Hale,    who,'  as  we 
have  heard,  was  well  acauainted  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.   He  has  been 
quite  closely  associated  with  the  breth- 
ren   who   have   occupied   positions  of 
trust  and  importance  in  the  Church  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  from  that  time  to 
the  present.    He  has  borne  a  very  earn-, 
est  and  faithful  testimony  concerning 
the  character  and  mission  of  the  men 
who  have  occupied  these  presiding  po- 
sitions.   More  especially  in  regard  to 
the  character  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  President  Brigham  Young,  and 
President  Heber  C.  Kimball.    No  doubt 
we  have  all  been  impressed  with  the 
Words  that  have  been  read  in  our  hear- 
ing by  President  J.  G.  Kimball,  that 
were  spoken  a  long  time  ago,  by  his 
father,  President  Heber  C.  Kimball.  As 
has  been  intimated,   we  are  all  wit. 
nesses,  to  a  greater  or  less  degree,  of 
the  fulfillment  of  the  inspired  words 
that  were  uttered  by  President  Heber 
C.  Kimball  so  many  years  ago.    I  have 
also  been  impressed  with  the  disposi- 
tion manifest  by  all  of  the  brethren  to 
bear  testimony  to  the  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph.    They  all  testify  tha\ 
he  was  inspired  by  our  Father  in  hea\- 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


en,  and  that  he  was  a  Prophet  of  the 
Lord.  I  have  wondered  if  there  is  not 
a  feeling-  sometimes  on  the  part  01 
those  who  are  not  particularly  at., 
quainted  with  the  work  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  when  they  hear  testimony 
so  frequently  that  prophets  and  apos- 
tles are  in  the  church;  if  we  are  not 
given  more  or  less  to  fanaticism.  No 
such  testimonies  are  ever  heard  in  other 
churches.  We  are  the  only  people,  prac- 
tically, who  believe  in  living  Prophets, 
and  it  is  evident  from  the  words  that 
are  spoken,  and  from  the  testimonies 
that  are  so  frequently  delivered,  tha; 
we  are  very  earnest  believers  in 
the  necessity  of  prophets  to  receive  tht 
word  of  the  Lord  today.  I  thought  I 
would  like  to  read  a  few  words  tha^ 
were  uttered  by  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  in  the  great  sermon  upon  th« 
mount,  wherein  He  says: 

"Beware  of  false  prophets  which 
come  to  you  in  sheep's  cloth- 
ing, but  inwardly  they  are  raven- 
ing wolves.  Ye  shall  know  them 
by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes 
of  thorns  or  figs  of  thistles?  Even  so. 
every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good 
fruit,  but  a  corrupt  tree  bringeth  forth 
evil  fruit.  A  good  tree  cannot  bring 
forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt 
tree  bring  forth  good  fruit.  Every  tree 
that  brigeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is 
hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  fire, 
Wherefore,  by  their  fruits  ye  shah 
know  them. 

I  take  it,  that  when  the  Redeemer  of 
the  World,  in  His  teaching  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  gave  warning  against 
false  prophets,  He  indicated  by  thost 
very  words,  that  there  ought  to  be 
among  men  true  prophets,  else  He 
would  have  said,  Beware  of  prophets. 
There  are  many  in  the  world  today 
who  no  doubt  regret  that  the  Redeem- 
er did  not  say  to  the  people,  Beware  of 
prophets.  But  there  is  no  such  declara- 
tion or  warning;  but  there  is  a  warn- 
ing that  we  should  beware  of  false 
prophets,  and  that  we  should  judge  by 
their  fruits  the  men  who  claim  and 
profess  to  be  prophets  of  the  Lord. 
"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to 
be  exceedingly  thankful  to  our  Father 
in  heaven,   that  this  test  can  be  ap- 


plied to  those  who  have  stood  before 
the  people  as  Prophets  of  the  Lord  h, 
these  latter  times.  The  test  can  be  ap. 
plied  in  the  manner  that  it  has  beer* 
applied,  this  afternoon  by  the  reading 
of  the  prophecies  delivered  so  long 
ago,  showing  the  complete  fulfillment  of 
the  predictions  that  have  been  made 
by  the  modern  prophets.  It  is  written 
in  the  Scriptures: 

"When  a  Prophet  speaketh  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  if  the  thing  follow 
not,  nor  come  to  pass,  that  is  the  thing 
which  the  Lord  hath  not  spoken,  but 
the  Prophet  hath  spoken  it  presump- 
tously;  thou  shalt  not  be  afraid  of 
him." 

It  is  good  logic  to  decide  in  our  minds 
that  if  the  things  spoken  by  the 
mouth  of  a  Prophet  cometh  to  pass, 
then  we  shall  know  that  he  has  not 
spoken  presumptuously,  but  that  he 
has  spoken  by  the  inspiration  and  di- 
rection of  our  Father  in  heaven.  If  we 
scan  the  prophecies  that  have  been  de- 
livered by  those  who  have  been  raised 
up  by  divine  appointment,  in  the  age 
in  which  »we  are  living,  in  the  ushering 
in  of  the  great  dispensation  of  the  full- 
ness of  times,  we  will  discover  that  all 
along  the  line  the  predictions  of  the 
prophets,  even  those  that  have  ap- 
peared in  many  instances  almost  im- 
possible of  fulfillment,  have  been  veri- 
fied. We  have  abundant  evidence,  not- 
withstanding the  unbelief  of  the  world, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  great  Prophet. 
This  evidence  is  found  in  the  history 
that  has  been  made  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  has  been 
abundantly  poured  out  upon  His  ser- 
vants, and  the  future  of  the  Saints  has 
been  foreseen  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
revelation. 

I  would  like  to  read  another  word  or 
two  bearing  upon  his  subject,  written 
by  one  of  the  ancient  Apostles.  We  pro- 
fess in  the  age  in  which  we  live  to  be- 
lieve in  the  words  of  the  old  Prophets, 
to  believe  also  in  the  predictions  of  the 
ancient  Apostles.  If  we  believe  in  their 
predictions,  if  we  believe  in  the  doc- 
trines that  they  have  enunciated,  then 
we  ought  to  be  believers  in  divine  in- 
spiration, we  ought  to  be  believers  in 
present  day  Prophets,  and  present  day 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


79 


Apostles,  for  an  inspired  man  of  God 
has  made  this  declaration:    "And  God 
hath  set  some  in  the  Church,  first  Apos- 
tles, scondarily,  Prophets, thirdly  teach- 
ers, after  that  miracles,  then  gifts  of 
healing,   helps,   governments,  diversi- 
ties of  tongues.    Are  all  Apostles?  Are 
all  prophets?    Are  all  teachers?  Are 
all  workers  of  miracles?"  No,  all  men 
are  not  Apostles;    all    men    are  not 
Prophets;  all  are  not  workers  of  mir- 
acles, but  God  hath  set  all  of  these  in 
His  Church,   and   He   has   made  the 
■declaration  that  "the  eye  cannot  say 
to  the  hand,  I  have  no  need  of  thee, 
nor  again  the  head  to  the  feet,  I  have 
no  need  of  you."    The  inspired  "writer 
compares  the  officers  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  with  the  members  of  the  body, 
and  positively  makes  the  declaration, 
in  the  comparison,  that  all  the  officers 
are  necessary.     The   Church  without 
Apostles,    Prophets,     Teachers,  etc., 
would  be  deformed  like  the  body  with- 
out the  head,  or  without  an  eye,  or 
without  a  hand.   They  are  all  essential, 
and  necessary,  they  have  all  been' plac- 
ed in  the  Church  by  our  Father  in 
heaven;  so  declares  the  Apostle,  and  so 
say  the  Latter-day  Saints.    The  Apos- 
tle Paul  further  declares  in  this  same 
epistle,  "If  any  man  think  himself  to 
be  a  prophet,  or  spiritual,  let  him  ac- 
knowledge that  the  things  that  I  write 
unto  you  are  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord."    O  ye  believers  in  the  Scrip- 
tures of  divine  truth,  if  ye  think  ye 
are  spiritually  minded,  if  ye  think  ye 
are  Prophets,  acknowledge,  saith  one 
who  was  inspired,    that    the  things 
which  he  wrote  pertaining  to  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  are  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord.    They  are  not  the 
commandments  of  men.   They  have  not 
been  gotten  up  by  the  education  or  cun- 
ning of  men.    They  are  great  and  nec- 
essary doctrines  that  have  been  reveal- 
ed.  They  are  true,  and  without  them 
there  can  be  no  Church  of  God.  Truth 
will  work  its  way  in  the  world,  and 
cannot  be  staid.    Troubles  may  come, 
disappointments   may   come,  anxieties 
may  overtake  us,  but  let  us  not  forget 
that  the  Lord  our  God  has  revealed  the 
truth  of  the  Everlasting  Gospel.  Let 
"s  not  forget  that  He  has  planted  this 


organization  by  His  own  almighty  pow- 
er, and  He  has  said  that  every  hand 
that  is  lifted  against  it  shall  perish. 
We  know  not  how.  We  stand  amazed 
at  the  promises  that  have  been  made 
•by  our  Father  in  heaven,  but  we  know 
within  our  souls,  thank  God,  that  the 
promises  will  be  fulfilled,  and  we  have 
but  to  keep  our  eyes  upon  the  mark  of 
our  high  calling  in  Christ  Jesus  our 
Lord.  Refrain  from  evils;  be  upright 
in  conduct.  Watch  the  authority  that 
has  been  given,  that  presides  over  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  and  be  true  to  that 
authority,  and  all  will  be  well.  This 
is  "Mormonism,"  and  it  is  the  truth 
of  God.  It  is  not  a  myth,  it  is  as  God 
has  revealed  it.  I  gladly  bear  this  tes- 
timony to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  name  of  my  Redeemer,  even  sq. 
Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  the  last 
meting  of  this  conference  is  drawing 
to  a  close,  I  desire  to  congratulate  you 
who  have  assembled  in  having  been 
present  at  the  largest  attended  general 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Each 
year  our  numbers  seem  to  increase  con- 
siderably, and  while  the  tabernacle  and 
this  building  are  full,  and  the  Temple 
block  grounds  are  crowded,  the  increase 
is  so  great  that  there  is  now  no  place 
in  this  city  large  enough  to  hold  the 
representatives  of  Zion,  who  came  to 
conference. 

We  will  now  present  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  for  your  vote,  in 
this  final  meeting.  I  desire  to  say  that 
we  hope  every  man  and  woman  who 
are  members  of  the  Church,  in  good 
standing,  will  vote  according  to  their 
feelings,  whether  for  or  against  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church;  and  we  ex- 
pect that  people  who  are  not  in  good 
standing,  or  not  members  of  the  Church 
shall  refrain  from  voting. 

It  becomes  my  painful  duty,  and  it 
fills  my  heart  with  sorrow,  to  announce 
to  you  that,  since  our  last  general  con- 
ference, there  have  occurred  three  va- 


\ 


80 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


cancies  in  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Marriner  W.  Merrill  passed  from 
this  life  on  February  6th,  1906.  We  re- 
ceived from  Elders  John  W.  Taylor  and 
Mathias  F.  Cowley  their  written  resig- 
nations, dated  October  28th,  1905,  of 
their  positions  as  members  of  the  Quo- 
rum of  the  Twelve,  which  were  accept- 
ed by  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church.  These  vacancies 
have  been  filled,  as  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  through  His  servant, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Another  announcement  that  also 
causes  sorrow  is,  that  President  Chris- 
tian D.  Fjeldsted  departed  this  life  on 
December  23rd,  1905,  causing  a  vacancy 
in  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  that 
has  been  filled  as  the  other  vacancies 
were. 

Elder  Smith  then  presented  the  names 
of  the  general  authorities,  the  full  list 
of  whom  will  be  found  in  the  report  of 
proceedings  in  the  Tabernacle.  The 
brethren  named  were  sustained  by 
unanimous  vote  of  the  congregation. 

Now  that  we  are  ready  to  go  from 
this  last  meeting,  I  trust  the  spirit  of 
this  conference  may  be  in  the  soul  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint;  that  our  tes- 
timonies may  have  been  strengthened 
by  meeting  together;  that  we  may  re- 
turn to  our  homes  and  feel  to  be  more 
faithful,  more  devoted  to  the  service 
of  our  Father,  in  laboring  to  do  good  to 
all  His  children,  wherever  they  may  be 
on  the  earth;  and  that  we  may  be  in- 
deed Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  may 
be  worthy  of  membership  in  the  Church 
of  Christ,  that  day  by  day  our  light 
may  so  shine  that  men,  seeing  our 
good  works,  may  glorify  our  Father 
who  is  in  heaven,  which  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "But  in 
the  last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Horace  Cum- 
mings. 


OUTDOR  MEETIN(j. 

A  thousand  of  the  people  who 
were  unable  to  gain  admittance 
either    to    the    Tabernacle    or  the 


Assembly  Hall,  listened  to  re- 
marks of  prominent  Elders  on  the 
east  side  of  the  Bureau  of  Information 
building.  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard  pre- 
sided over  the  services,  and  seated  with 
him,  in  chairs  that  had  been  placed  u> 
on  the  lawn,  were  President  William 
H.  Smart  of  Wasatch  stake,  Nephi 
Pratt,  president  of  the  Northwestern 
States  mission;  President  Hugh  J.  Can- 
non of  Liberty  stake;  Elder  Joseph  E. 
Robinson,  president  of  the  California 
mission,  and  President  Thomas  E.  Bas-. 
sett  of  Fremont  stake,  who  addressed 
the  congregation  in  the  order  named. 

A  pleasing  feature  of  the  meeting  was 
the  music  rendered,  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Prof.  Charles  Kent.  He  sang 
as  a  solo  "I  Know  that  My  Redeemer 
Liveth,"  and  the  numbers  sang  by  the 
congregation  were  'We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  "The  Spirit  of 
God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning,"  and  "Oh 
ye  Mountains  High."  The  opening 
prayer  was  by  Elder  Charles  S.  Mar- 
tin, and  Elder  H.  J.  Foulger,  Sr.,  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 


Services  commenced  at  2:15  p.  m. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  SMART. 

(President  of  Wasatch  Stake.) 

Elder  William  H.  Smart  said  that  the 
present  gathering  reminded  him  forci- 
bly of  meetings  held  by  Elders  in  the 
missionary  field.  It  was  gratifying  to 
see  such  an  outpouring  of  people  at 
conference,  and  to  witness  the  interest 
and  enthusiasm  manifested.  The  splen- 
did reports  that  had  been  made  of  tht 
rapid  spread  of  the  latter-day  worx 
throughout  the  world,  should  inspirt 
the  hearts  of  young  Latter-day  Saints 
and  convince  them  that  the  work  is 
indeed  true.  The  speaker  counseled 
youthful  members  of  the  Church  to  be. 
pure  and  chaste  in  their  lives,  and  not 
to  wander  away  from  the  path  followed 
by  their  fathers  and  mothers.  The 
great  things  of  the  future  should  be 
prepared  for,  and  none  should  be  lifted 
up  in  pride  nor  in  any  way  be  led  from 
the  ways  of  meekness  and  humility- 


OUTDOOR 

The  geatest  men  of  all  ages,  said  the 
speaker,  have  been  men  that  were  meek 
and  more  or  less  sacrificing  in  their 
lives.  Abraham  and  the  brother  of 
Jared  were  referred  to  as  noted  ex- 
amples of  the  type  whose  singleness  of 
purpose  and  devotion  to  duty  had 
brought  to  them  the  blessings  of  heav- 
en. 

ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT. 

(President    of    Northwestern  States 
Mission. ) 

Elder  Nephi  Pratt  said  that  there 
are  more  people  now  within  the  Temple 
block  than  were  living  in  Utah  at  the 
time  of  the  laying  of  the  cornerstone  ot 
the  Temple,  that  magnificent  monu- 
ment of  the  faith  and  labors  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  The  "Mormon"  people, 
worship  the  true  and  living  God,  not 
that  something  called  a  "Univer- 
sal Force,"  adored  by  an  eminent 
American  divine  and  believed  in  more 
or  less  by  the  people  of  Christendom. 
Such  an  imaginary  being  would  be  in- 
carnate in  the  roar  of  the  tempest  and 
in  the  earthquake's  devastating  shock. 
Our  God  and  Father,  he  said,  is  a  per- 
sonality, that  divine  being  whose  feet 
were  washed  and  who  partook  of  food 
in  the  tent  of  Abraham,  who  visited 
Jacob  and  Moses;  whose  finger  of 
flesh  wrote  the  ten  commandments 
upon  a  tablet  of  stone,  and  whose  voice 
proclaims  His  will  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth.  The  Latter-day  Saints,  con- 
tinued Elder  Pratt,  came  to  an  arid 
and  desolate  region,  and  in  privation 
laid  the  foundations  of  their  present 
affluence.  The  young  men  were  urged 
upon  by  the  speaker  to  marry,  and  aot 
become  the  "ugliest  thing  on  two  leg.^, 
a  bachelor."  He  advised  the  Saints 
to  so  live  that  prisons,  asylums  and 
almshouses  would  be  unnecessary  ?or 
them. 

ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON. 

(President  of  Liberty  Stake.) 

Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon  said  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  were  not  ashamed  of 
their  religion,  but  invited  an  investiga- 
tion of  its    principles  and  its  fruits. 


MEETING.  gl 

They  desired  to  be  judged,  not  from  a 
standard  of  perfection,  but  to  be  aver- 
aged with  the  best  and  highest  types 
of  their  fellowmen.  The  world  did  not 
seem,  he  said,  to  consider  whether 
"Mormons"  are  as  good  as  anybody 
else,  but  expected  them  to  be  much 
better.  The  young  people  of  the  Church 
have  now  more  opportunities  for  study- 
ing the  philosophy  of  their  religion  than 
has  been  the  case  in  the  past,  and  the 
majority  of  them  are  not  letting  these 
opportunities  slip  by  without  taking 
advantage  of  them.  Tet  very  few,  he 
thought,  studied  the  grand  subject  suf- 
ficiently. It  is  not  sufficient  to  know 
that  God  has  restored  the  Gospel  of 
Christ.  The  plan  of  salvation  must  ap- 
peal to  the  soul  and  control  the  actions 
of  men  amid  all  the  temptations  of 
life. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  California  Mission.) 

Elder  Joseph  E.  Robinson  said  that 
the  Gospel  is  full  of  philosophy  and  will 
bear  the  closest  investigation.  It  ap- 
peals to  the  heart  as  well  as  to  the 
reason  .  True  religion  underlies  all  that 
pertains  to  its  existence.  All  scientific 
achievement  is  the  result  of  applied 
faith.  The  Gospel  of  repentance  is  che 
principle  of  progression  in  all  the  af- 
fairs of  life.  It  leads  from  the  doing 
of  things  in  a  wrong  way  to  better 
methods,  and  thus  perfection  must 
eventually  come.  The  speaker  detailed 
a  conversation  with  a  gentleman  of  the 
Episcopalian  persuasion,  who  thought 
that  his  religion  was  more  broad  and 
liberal  and  respectable  than  that  of 
"Mormonism."  Elder  Robinson  ex- 
plained that  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  is  broad,  for  it  reaches  every 
member  of  the  human  family,  whether 
living  or  dead.  If  respectability  meant 
the  exclusion  of  all  but  the  well  dressed 
and  high-born,  he  admitted  that  "Mor- 
monism" was  not  respectable.  In  con- 
clusion, Elder  Robinson  advised  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  live  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  bring  no  disrepute  upon 
themselves  or  upon  their  Church. 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 

(President  of  Fremont  Stake.) 

Elder  Thomas  E.  Bassett  was  the 
closing-  speaker.  He  felt  grateful,  he 
said,  for  the  environment  of  good  men 
and  good  women  in  this  Church.  He 
had  been  nurtured  in  the  precepts  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ,  had  witnessed 
many  of  the  hand-dealings  of  God  and 
knew  beyond  a  doubt  that  "Mormon- 
ism"  is  true.  The  prophecy  uttered  by 
the,  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  the 
Saints  should  become  a  mighty  people 
in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains 
had  been  verily  fulfilled,  as  witnessed 
by  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
dwelling  in  these  regions.  We  are  not 
responsible  for  the  setting  up  of  this 
work,  the  speaker  said,  neither  can  we 
stop  its  progress.  It  is  the  work  of 
God  and  never  will  be  overthrown.  Men 
must  live  according  to  the  precepts  of 
the  Gospel  if  they  will  retain  a  testi- 
mony of  its  truth.  Corruption  in  life 
will  drive  out  the  light,  and  cause  the 
soul  to  wander  in  darkness. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  p.  m. 

Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith  called  the 
meeting  to  order. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Praise 
the  Lord  all  ye  Nations." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Nephi 
L.  Morris. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem.  "Worthy 
is  the  Lamb  that  was  Slain." 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Importance  of  observing  God's  law  con- 
cerning the  Sabbath  day.— The  day 
should  not  be  desecrated  by  unbecoming 
conduct.— Abundant  opportunities  pro- 
vided for  recreation  in  other  days. — 
Municipal  laws,  and  personal  appeal 
should  influence  reverence  for  the  Sab- 
bath. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  pleas- 
ure to  me  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
being  in  attendance  upon  this  confer- 
ence, listening  to  the  words  that  have 
been   spoken   by   the   Brethren  whose 


privilege  it  has  been  to  speak,  and  par- 
taking of  the  spirit  that  has  character- 
ized the  meetings  thus  far.  I  desire 
that  you  will  give  me  the  aid  of  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  en- 
abled to  discharge  the  duty  ihat  has 
fallen  to  my  lot  in  that  manner  that 
shall  result  in  our  mutual  good,  and 
that  may  awaken  in  our  minds  a  deter- 
mination to  more  fully  ana  devotedly 
discharge  the  sacred  obligations  into 
which  we  have  entered  connected  with 
the  work  the  Lord  has  committed  to 
our  care  at  this  time.  As  I  was  sit- 
ting here  the  thought  entered  my  mind 
that  I  would  like  to  ieud  to  the  con- 
gregation a  portion  of  one  of  the  reve- 
lations. It  is  contained  in  Section 
59  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, and  is  a  revelation  given  through 
Joseph  the  Seer,  m  Zion,  Jackson  coun- 
ty, Missouri,  Aug.  7,  1831. 

"Behold,  blessed,  saitn  the  Lord,  are 
they  who  have  come  up  unto  this  land 
with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory,  accord- 
ing to  my  commandments; 

"For  them  that  live  shall  inherit  the 
earth,  and  them  that  die  shall  rest  from 
all  their  labors,  and  their  works  shall 
follow  them,  and  they  snail  receive  a 
crown  in  the  mansions  of  my  Father, 
which  I  have  prepared  for  them; 

"Yea,  blessed  are  they  wnose  feet 
stand  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  who  have 
obeyed  my  Gospel, for  they  shall  receive 
for  their  reward  the  good  things  of  tnb 
earth;  and  it  shall  bring  forth  in  its 
strength; 

"And  they  shall  also  be  crowned  with 
blessings  from  above,  yea,  and  with 
commandments  not  a  few;  and  with 
revelations  in  their  time:  they  that  are 
faithful  and  diligent  before  me. 

"Wherefore  I  give  unto  them  a  com- 
mandment, saying  thus:  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and 
strength;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  thou  shalt  serve  him. 

"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal;  neither 
commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  any- 
thing like  unto  it. 

"Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God 
in  all  things. 

"Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even 
that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite 
spirit. 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully 
keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer 
and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my 
holy  day; 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


83 


"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  trom  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions   unto  tne  Most 

High: 

"Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  of- 
fered up  in  righteousness  on  all  days 
and  at  all  times; 

"But  remember  that  on  tnis  the  Lord's 
day,  thou  shait  offer  thine  oblations 
and'  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most 
High,  confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy 
brethren,  and  before  the  Lord." 

To  my  mind,  the  principles  contained 
in  this  revelation,  given  to  the  Church- 
in  1831,  are  worthy  of  our  consideration 
today,  and  the  suggestions  therein  af- 
fecting our  conduct  should  receive  our 
thoughtful  observance.  In  the  midst 
of  the  cares  and  responsibilities  that 
attach  to  us,  in  the  struggle  we  have 
to  make  to  secure  for  ourselves  tem- 
poral blessings,  as  well  as  to  minister 
in  the  performance  of  spiritual  labors, 
sometimes  we  are  not  as  mindful  of 
these  obligations  as  we  should  be. 
Without  thought  we  occasionally  drift 
into  a  disregard  of  the  Sabbath  day. 
We  look  upon  it  with  a  degree  of  laxity, 
not  in  keeping  with  the  commandment 
concerning  it  as  given  unto  us  by  our 
Heavenly  Father.  I  believe  that  if 
there  is  any  condemnation  that  applies 
most  specifically  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  for  the  neglect  of  duty,  it  is 
that  some  have  turned  this  sacred  day 
too  much  into  a  day  of  visiting  and 
pleasure.  We  are  not  as  thoughtful 
as  we  should  be  of  its  observance,  and 
of  the  legitimate  duties  connected  with 
this  great  day  of  rest  instituted  by 
our  Father  in  heaven  in  His  covenant 
with  His  children  in  former  days,  and 
renewed  unto  us  in  the  wonderful 
trust  that  each  one  that  has  come  to 
trust  that  each  one  that  has  came  to 
attend  this  great  conference  will  be 
impressed  with  the  importance  of  oui 
Father's  purpose  in  thus  setting  the 
Sabbath  day  apart  again  in  our  day, 
through  the  revelations  of  His  will, 
and  that,  so  far  as  we  have  influence 
and  power  with  those  placed  under  our 
watchcare,  we  shall  impress  upon  their 
minds  also  that  the  day  should  be  ob- 
served more  sacredly  and  thoughtfully 
than  it  has  been  in  the  past.  It  is 
true,  many  of  us  who  have  been  away 


from  home,  ministering  in  preaching 
the  Gospel,  have  possibly  Jost  our  in- 
fluence, in  a  limited  degree,  upon  our 
children  in  regard  to  these  matters,  and 
they  may  have  drifted  from  us  with 
the  tide.  In  seeking,  by  our  com- 
panionship and  counsel,  to  check  the 
tendency  that  has  affected  them,  we 
sometimes  And  it  difficult  to  impress 
them  with  our  views,  and  with  the  sac- 
red regard  in  which  we  hold  the  in- 
junction given  by  the  Almighty  con- 
cerning this  holy  day.  But  I  believe 
the  effort  should  be  made  more  care- 
fuly  and  thoroughly  by  every  one  of 
us,  as  fathers  and  mothers,  as  Elders 
in  the  Church,  as  presiding  authorities 
in  the  branches  and  wards  of  Zion, 
and  as  ministers  in  every  field,  to  im- 
press upon  the  minds  of  the  Lord's  cov- 
enant people  that  His  love  and  bless- 
ings can  only  be  obtained  by  the  ob- 
servance of  His  holy  will. 

Similar  thoughts  are  awakened  in  my 
mind  in  reflecting  upon  other 
questions.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
has  been  exceedingly  generous  to 
us  in  the  line  of  the  amusements  we  are 
privileged  to  enjoy.  No  people  in  the 
world  have  been  more  thoughtfully  con- 
sidered in  the  matter  of  amusements, 
both  for  young  and  old.  o."n  theatricals, 
in  dancing,  in  concerts,  in  visits  to 
proper  places  of  resort,  and  in  other 
privileges  of  enjoyment,  we  have  been 
generously  dealt  witn  as  a  people,  so 
that  the  exuberant  spirits  of  youth 
may  have  legitimate  exercise,  and  those 
who  have  reached  riper  years  may  be 
refreshes  and  have  their  minds  relaxed 
from  the  cares  and  responsibilities  of 
life.  But  our  Father,  while  permitting 
these  privileges,  has  laid  upon  us  the 
requirement  of  sacredly  regarding  His 
holy  day  and  discharging  our  obliga- 
tions in  regard  to  it.  Should  conditions 
prevent  us  from  being  in  attendance  at 
Sabbath  school,  at  the  Sacrament  meet- 
ing, or  at  the  evening  meeting,  that 
day  should  not  oe  spent  in  visiting 
neighbors,  in  mingling  with  one  an- 
other upon  the  streets,  or  in  going  to 
pleasure  resorts.  If  it  is  impossible  for 
us  to  attend  places  of  sacred  worship 
in  public,  we  should  seek  to  study  th« 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Scriptures  at  home,  and  equip  ourselves 
by  communion  with  the  Spirit,  for  the 
great  work  the  good  Master  has  set  us 
to  do.  I  believe  that  our  condemna- 
tion will  be  great— fathers  and  moth- 
ers as  well  as  children— if  we  disregard 
this  sacred  day  and  its  obligations. 

It  is  not  my  intention  to  detain  you, 
but  I  desire  to  impress  upon  the  sons 
and  daughters  of  Zion  that  no  people 
has  ever  been  dealt  with  more  gener- 
ously than  we  have  in  opportunities  af- 
forded  for  legitimate  and  proper  amuse- 
ment.   The  Lord  has  sought  to  impress 
upon  our  minds  a  sacred  regard  of  His 
holy  day,  and  has  also  made  it  possible 
for  us  to,  at  other  times,  have  amuse- 
ment along  proper  lines,  and  in  proper 
companionship.   Therefore  it  is  improp- 
er and  unrighteous  for  any  to  seek  the 
companionship  of  the  lewd  and  vicious, 
or  mingle  with  the  wicked  in  places  of 
pleasure  upon  the  Sabbath  day.    It  is 
also  wrong  for  us  to  participate  in  any 
of  the  great  variety  of  agencies  which 
men  have  established  that  tend  to  the 
moral  overthrow  and    destruction  of 
their  fellows.  I  believe  that  the  author- 
ities of  every  city,  town  and  village 
within  the  United  States  should  seek  to 
cause  the  citizens  to  regard  with  more 
sacredness   and   respect  the  day  .ie- 
signated  by  the  Almighty  as  a  day  of 
rest.    I  believe  that  we  to  whom  the 
revelation  has  come  in  the  latter  days 
in  regard  to  the  observance  of  the*  Sab- 
bath, should  be  determined  that  His 
day  must  be  held  in  reverence,  respect 
and  love.    We  should  honor  the  men 
and  women  of  every  faith,  creed,  and 
condition  that  seek  in  fairness,  mercy 
and  love  to  prevent  the  turning  of  the 
Lord's  day  into  a  time  for  wrong  doing 
that  may  result  in  the  moral  overthrow 
and  destruction  of  human  beings.  The 
desire  should  be  instilled  into  the  minds 
of  every  man  and  woman  to  honor  and 
esteem  it,  and  to  utilize  it  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  their  improvement  in 
a  knowledge  of  the  divine  will,  and 
increasing  their  respect  and  reverence 
for  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  ask  you  who  are  pongregated  here, 
men  who  influence  the  views  and  ideas 
of  communities,  women  whose  hearts 


are  attuned  to  the  best  interests  of  the 
human  race,  to  see  to  it  that  the  im- 
press of  a  sacred  regard  for  the  Lord's 
holy  day  shall  be  inculcated  by  you, 
both  in  word  and  action,  so  that  the 
moral  regulations  given  of  the  Almighty 
may  be  more  thoroughly  established 
among  His  great  family.  Remember 
the  right  and  do  it.  Let  this  love  of  the 
principles  of  righteousness  be  imbued 
in  the  souls  of  our  sons  and  daughter?, 
and  then,  though  they  drift  from  our 
control  for  a  while,  the  time  will  come 
in  the  trials  and  experiences  of  iife 
when  they  will  come  back  to  their 
homes,  with  regrets  for  having  disre- 
garded our  instructions  and  the  im- 
press we  sought  to  make  upon  them. 

May  we  be  true  to  every  propositiou 
involved  in  the  principles  of  our  faith, 
and  also  in  the  good  couched  in  the 
faith  of  every  other  living  soul.  May 
we  be  set  and  determined  in  our  pur- 
pose that  everything  evil  and  wrong 
shall  be  met  with  an  effort  ,  upon  our 
part  to  eradicate  it  and  better  the  con- 
ditions of  life.  Let  us  point  the  way 
to  the  success  that  may  come  to  men 
and  women  who  shall  do  the  will  of 
their  Father,  blessing  their  fellows,  and 
being  just  to  every  one.  May  the  bless- 
ings of  Heaven  abound  in  your  hearts 
and  in  your  homes.  May  you  love  tie 
principles  of  righteousness.  May  vou 
honor  the  Lord's  day.  May  the  moral 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  given  in  the  law 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  including 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal,"  "Thou  shalt  not 
commit  adultery,"  "Thou  shalt  not 
kill,"  and  others  like  unto  it,  be  among 
the  guiding  beacons  of  your  lives.  May 
the  love  of  your  country  and  its  insti- 
tutions, and  the  maintenance  of  every 
principle  of  right  and  justice  that  guard 
the  liberties  of  every  human  being,  be 
exhibited  in  your  every  action;  that 
the  principles  established  for  the  bet- 
terment of  the  human  race,  that  the  lib- 
eralizing of  mankind,  and  the  preach- 
ing of  the  truth  among  them,  may  be 
sustained  by  you,  without  fear  of  the 
frowns  of  mankind,  but  in  love  of  the 
right,  in  the  principle  of  mercy,  and  in 
the  justice  that  should  be  accorded  to 
every  human  being. 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


85 


God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens.  His 
truth  has  been  declared  among  the 
children  of  men.  The  message  of  glad- 
ness has  come  and  is  to  be  heralded  to 
the  whole  human  race.  Upon  you,  in 
connection  with  the  others  who  have 
been  warned,  rests  this  responsibility. 
May  wisdom,  prudence,  faith,  undying 
courage  and  unyielding  dievotion  to 
principle  govern  your  lives,  that  the 
truth  may  stand,  and  that  you  may 
nonor  everything  that  is  noble  and  true, 
is  my  prayer.  Amen. 

The  quartet.  "Lead  Kindly  Light," 
was  beautifully  rendered  by  Sisters 
Larson,  Owen,  Jones  and  Jorgensen. 

ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 

Harmony  in  the  Church— Spread  of  the 
Gospel— Seeds  Sown  in  Time  Will  Bear 
Fruit  in  Eternity.— Individual  Identity 
Immortal.— Godhead  of  Jesus  Christ.— 
The  Atonement— Faithfulness  in  Adver- 
sity as  in  Prosperity. 

This  is  a  magnificent  sight  viewed 
from  this  upper  stand.  To  see  so  many 
noble  countenances  upturned,  expres- 
sive of  devotion  and  faith  and  a  de- 
sire to  be  instructed,  places  a  person 
occpying  this  position  in  a  state  of 
anxiety,  to  some  extent.  I  believe  this 
has  been  felt  by  all  our  brethren  who 
have  stood  up  before  the  congregations 
during  this  conference  to  speak  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord.  We  feel  that  a 
great  responsibility  rests  upon  us.  The 
task  might  not  be  so  great  if  we  were 
In  the  habit  of  framing  discourses  to 
deliver  to  the  public,  and  coming  pre- 
pared not  only  with  subjects  but  with 
words  and  phrases  to  deliver  to  the 
congregation,  but  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  are  aware  that  that  is 
not  one  of  the  customs  in  this  Church. 
We  are  required,  as  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  to  treasure  up  in  our  hearts  con- 
tinually the  words  of  eternal  life,  so 
that  we  may  be  prepared  when  called 
upon  or  when  necessity  requires,  to 
speak  that  which  the  Lord  shall  in- 
spire on  the  occasion. 

I  have  greatly  enjoyed  the  sessions 
of  this  conference,  and  the  discourses 
that  have  been  delivered,  and  the  re- 
Ports  that  have  been  made.  There 
has  been  present  with,  us  a  delightful 


spirit.    We  have  enjoyed  good  fellow- 
ship and  harmony.     There  has  been 
no  discord  in  the  spirits  of  the  men 
who   have  spoken  to  us,   nor  in  the 
words  that  they  have  delivered,  but 
the  Spirit  of  God  has  borne  witness 
in  our  hearts  to  the  truth  and  the  im- 
portance of  that  which  has  been  de- 
clared to  us.   We  have  learned  that  all 
things  are  prospering  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Not  that  we  have  arrived  at  perfec- 
tion in  the  individuals  or  in  any  de- 
partment of  the  Church;  there  is  room 
for     improvement  in  us  individually, 
and  in  the  Church  as  a  whole.  But 
we  have  learned  that  Zion   is  pros- 
pering.   We  have  learned  that  the  Gos- 
pel is  being  preached  to  the  world, 
and  that  the  way  is  being  opened  up 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  where- 
by the  servants  cf  God  may  have  free- 
dom to  go  forward  and  perform  their 
respective  missions.    We  have  learned, 
too,  that  there  has  been  an  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Church:  that 
although  great  hosts  of  people  have 
not  come  forward  to  embrace  the  Gos- 
pel,  there  are  some  thousands  who 
have  been  baptized  into  the  Church, 
and  there  are  a  great  many  others 
who  have  been  profoundly  impressed 
with  the  message  which     has  been 
borne  to  them.    If  it  were  not  for  the 
pride  of  the  world,  if  it  were  not  for 
the  fear  of  the  scoffs  and  scorn  of  men, 
I  am  fully  presuaded  that  many  thou- 
sands who  have  heard  the  testimony 
of  the  Elders  would  come  forward  and 
embrace  the  Gospel  and  rejoice  with 
us  in  its  glorious  privileges. 

The  work  that  is  being  performed 
by  our  brethren  who  are  laboring  in 
the  various  mission  fields  is  a  very  im- 
portant one,  and  it  rests  upon  all  of 
Us  Latter-day  Saints  to  do  our  part  in 
this  great  missionary  cause.  When  , 
the  Church  was  first  organized  the 
word  of  the  Lord  came  that  every 
man  who  is  warned  should  warn  his 
neighbor;  that  the  testimony  which 
was  given  to  the  Saints  should  be 
borne  by  them  for  the  benefit  of 
others,  so  that  the  Gospel  might  go 
forward  to  every  nation,  and  kindred, 


86 


GENERAL  CON  FE 1 1  K.\'< '!'? 


and  tongue,  and  people.  This  work 
rests  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
is  our  duty  to  proclaim  the  Gospel  to 
all  the  world,  and  the  Lord  will  open 
up  the  way  from  time  to  time,  and 
give  His  servants  access  to  the  honest 
in  heart,  some  of  whom  will  receive 
their  testimonies  and  come  out  of  the 
world  to  be  baptized  into  Christ  and 
become  members  of  His  Church  upon 
the  earth.  And  now  while  we  are 
bearing  this  testimony  and  bringing  a 
few  into  the  fold,  the  seeds  that  are 
being  sown  by  the-.  Elders  will,  in  time, 
bear  fruit  in  a  great  many  directions 
that  do  not  now  appear.  Like  seed 
that  is  sown  in  the  soil,  and  disappears 
from  view,  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord 
it  will  bring  forth  fruit  to  His  honor 
and  glory.  So  we  must  be  encouraged 
in  our  labors,  leaving  the  result  Avith 
the  Lord;  for  though  Paul  may  plant, 
and  Apollos  may  water,  it  is  God  Avho 
gives  the  increase.  I  believe,  with  all 
my  heart  that  the  testimonies  which 
are  being  borne  by  these  brethren  who 
have  spoken  to  us  and  the  Elders  who 
are  laboring  under  their  direction,  Avill 
not  fall  to  the  ground,  but  Avill  ac- 
complish a  good  Avork  in  due  time. 

There  are  hundreds  of  thousands  Avho 
have  heard  the  Gospel  in  the  flesh  and 
through  fear  or  folly  have  not  em- 
braced it,  having  been  afraid  to  come 
forward  and  join  themselves  with  this 
unpopular  people,  when  they  pass 
aAvay  from  this  stage  of  being  into  the 
spirit  world  will  be  prepared  to  receive 
it  when  it  is  being  preached  among 
the  spirits  that  are  there.  For  the 
work  that  Christ  did  after  He  departed 
from  the  flesh  and  went  and  preached 
to  the  spirits  in  prison  who  Avere  dis- 
obedient in  the  days  of  Noah,  will  have 
to  be  repeated  and  is  being  repeated 
noAv  by  the  servants  of  God  who  have 
gone  behind  the  veil,  and  it  will  be 
continued  by  those  who  shall  follow 
after.  While  the  Saints  upon  the 
earth  are  ministering  in  the  temples 
that  have  been  reared,  and  perform- 
ing the  necessary  ordinances  that  per- 
tain to  the  flesh  which  cannot  be  at- 
tended to  by  people  in  the  spirit  land, 
the  prophets  of  the  living  God,  who 


sealed  their  testimony  Avith  their  blood, 
and  their  faithful  brethren  Avho  have 
folloAved  after  them,  are  now  laboring 
among  the  people  behind  the  veil  that 
they  may  be  prepared  to  receive  the 
blessings  that  shall  come  to  them 
through  the  labors  of  the  Saints  in  the 
flesh.  For  in  this  dispensation  of  the 
fullness  of  times  the  Lord  has  promis- 
ed he  will  gather  together  in  one  all 
things  that  are  in  Him,  both  in  heaven 
and  on  the  earth,  and  the  work  that 
we  are  performing  now  in  the  flesh 
in  carrying  the  Gospel  of  the  kingdom 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  and  gathering 
in  the  upright  in  heart  from  all 
parts  of  the  Avorld,  is  but  a  portion  of 
the  work  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  The 
powers  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  which 
God  has  revealed  are  inseparably  c0n- 
nected,  he  has  told  us,  with  the  pow- 
ers that  are  behind  the  veil.  They  ar=> 
working  together  in  harmony,  and  the 
tune  will  come  and  it  is  not  far  dis- 
tant, when  the  veil  will  be  taken  away 
Avhich  separates  us  from  our  brethren 
who  have  gone  before,  and  we  will 
Avork  Avith  them,  and  they  Avith  us.  We 
will  be  in  perfect  harmony;  and  the 
Priesthood  behind  the  veil  will  reveal 
to  the  Priesthood  in  the  flesh,  in  the 
holy  Temples  of  God  Avhere  these  con- 
versations Avill  take  place,  the  names  of 
those  for  whom  we  must  officiate  which 
we  cannot  obtain  by  the  means  now  at 
our  command.  This  is  the  Lord's  work, 
and  it  is  not  only  going  on  here  in  the 
flesh,  but  it  is  going  on  in  the  world 
behind  the  veil  among  the  spirits  that 
have  departed.  Every  man  Avho  has 
been  called  to  hold  the  Priesthood 
should  endeavor  to  Qualify  himself  for 
the  work  that  lies  before  him,  both 
that  which  he  will  be  called  to  do 
Avhile  he  dwells  in  the  body,  and  that 
which  he  will  have  to  perform  when 
he  goes  out  of  the  body;  for  it  is  a  fact 
that  when  we  go  away  from  here  we 
will  take  with  us  that  which  we  have 
spiritually.  That  intelligence  which 
Ave  gain,  that  knowledge  of  principle, 
that  fellowship  we  have  with  the  heav- 
ens, that  Holy  Priesthood  which  we 
bear,  that  divine  spirit  by  which  we 
have  been  inspired,  and  all  the  pow- 
ers that  we  have  gained  in  being  ex- 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


87 


errised  in  the  duties  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, will  be  strength  and  power  and 
might  to  us  when  we  depart  from  the 
body  and  are  delivered  from  the  weak- 
ness of  mortality,  and  called  to  labor 
in  the  world  of  spirits.  The  same  au- 
thority, the  same  power,  the  same  intel- 
ligence, the  same  experiences  that  we 
have  had  here  we" will  have  there.  We 
will  not  leave  any  of  it  with  our  bodies 
to  be  dropped  down  in  the  grave.  An- 
other thing:  if  we  are  not  diligent,  if 
we  are  dilatory,  if  we  are  negligent,  if 
we  do  not  prize  this  authority  that  the 
Lord  has  sent  down  out  of  Heaven  in 
the  last  days  for  us  to  use  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  souls  of  men,  we  shall  not 
be  wafted  into  light,  intelligence,  pow- 
er, and  glory  when  we  go  out  of  the 
body,  but  will  merely  carry  with  us 
that  which  we  have  when  we  drop  our 
bodies.  Therefore  every  man  holding 
the  Priesthood  should  endeavor  to  qual- 
ify himself  for  the  work  of  th&  min- 
istry, in  time  and  in  eternity,  so  that 
we  may  labor  under  the  direction  of 
the  Captain  of  our  salvation  until  re- 
demption shall  come  to  all  the  race, 
and  "every  knee  shall  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father." 

In  the  opening  remarks  made  by 
President  Smith,  he  stated  that  we  were 
building  up  this  Church  to  Jesus  Christ. 
That  is  a  very  important  point  for  us 
to  keep  in  mind,  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  the  trend  of  modern  religious 
thought  is  in  the  direction  of  holding  up 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  simply  as  a  great 
man  and  wise  teacher.  This  idea  has 
been  preached  right  here  in  Salt  Lake 
City;  it  is  being  preached  in  all  the 
great  cities  of  the  land,  that  Jesus  is 
to  be  looked  upon  as  a  model  man,  and 
great  teacher,  but  not  in  any  sense  the 
Son  of  God  in  the  way  He  is  proclaimed 
in  the  Scriptures.  All  those  expres- 
sions concerning  His  being  one  of  the 
Godhead  a|re  spiritualized,  and  the 
trend  of  modern  thought  in  the  relig- 
ious world,  as  I  have  said,  is  in  the  di- 
rection of  placing  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
on  the  plane  of  mortality.  It  was  pro- 
claimed in  this  city  not  long  ago  that 
Jesus  died  like  any  other  man,  or  sim- 
ply as  a  martyr;  that  he  was  put  to 


death,  and  died  because  he  could  not 
live  any  longer,  and  he  was  the  embodi- 
ment of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  in 
that  way,  and  that  way  alone,  He  was 
the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  light. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Lord  has  revealed  something  concern- 
ing the  personality  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
and  what  he  stands  for,  and  our  rela- 
tionship to  him.  We  frequently  bear 
testimony  concerning  Joseph  the 
Prophet,  as  we  ought  to  do,  for  we 
should  "praise  the  man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah,"  and  whom  "Jesus  an- 
ointed as  prophet  and  seer;'  but  when 
we  bear  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  of  God  we  do  in  effect 
proclaim  the  truth  that  Jesus  or.  Naz- 
areth is  the  Messiah,  the  Son  of  God. 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Resur- 
rection and  the  Life,  the  Way  and  the 
Truth,  and  that  only  by  and  through 
Him  can  we  approach  the  Father.  That 
is  the  great  doctrine  for  which  Joseph 
Smith  stood,  and  lived,  and  died  as  a 
martyr.  In  the  beginning,  the  Father 
and  the  Son  appeared  to  him  in  that 
grove  which  Brother  George  Albert 
Smith  was  talking  about  this  morning, 
where  the  company  .that  went  to  dedi- 
cate the  monument  to  the  Prophet  met 
and  sang  the  song  of  Joseph's  first 
vision.  The  Father  and  the  Son  ap- 
peared to  Joseph, and  the  Father.point- 
ing  to  the  Son,  said:  "This  is  My  be- 
loved Son,  hear  Him."  He  is  the  Way, 
the  Truth  and  the  Life,  and  He  is  the 
light  of  the  world.  He  was  in  the  be- 
ginning with  the  Father.  You  can  read 
it  in  this  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. I  will  not  turn  to  it  now,  but 
you  read  the  76th  section,  in  which  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rig- 
don  tell  us  that  they  beheld  the  Father, 
seated  upon  His  throne,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  His  Son,  by  His  side;  and  they 
bear  witness — the  last  witness  of  Him 
— that  they  saw  Him  in  the  heavenly 
vision,  and  they  learned  that  "By  Him 
and  through  Him,  and  of  Him  the 
worlds  were  made,  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  were  begotten  sons  and  daugh- 
ters unto  God." 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  from 
the  words  of  Jesus  Christ  Himself  to 
the  people  on  this  continent,  to  whom 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


He   appeared   after   His  resurrection, 
that  He  is  the  Savior  of  the  world; 
that  He  was  with  the  Father  in  the  be- 
ginning; that  by  Him  the  worlds  were 
framed,  and  that  He  came  at  the  time 
appointed  and  died  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  that  all  who  believed  in  Him  and 
obeyed  His  Gospel  might  obtain  eternal 
life.    The  same  things  are  revealed  in 
Sec.  93  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
Jesus  Christ  says  there,  "Behold  I  was 
in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  and 
am  the  first  born."    He  proclaimed  this 
Himself,   in   this  revelation;   and  all 
through  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine.' 
and  Covenants  and  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  great  truth  is  proclaimed  that 
that  person  who  was  known  as  Jesus  of 
Nazareth,    who    was    born    at  Beth- 
lehem, who  was  cradled  in  a  manger, 
who  was  brought  up  as  the  son  of  Jos- 
eph, the  carpenter,  and  when  he  became 
30  years  of  age  was  baptized  in  the 
Jordan,  and  who  after  the  ministry  of 
about  three  and  a  half  years,  was  put 
to  death,  was  in  very  deed  the  Son  of 
God,  and  that  he  was  in  the  beginning 
with  the  Father.    When  God  said  "Let 
us  make  man  in  our  own  image,  and  af- 
ter our  own  likeness,"  He  spoke  to  His 
beloved  Son,  who  is  called  in  the  New 
Testament  the  "first  begotten,"  "the  be- 
ginning of  the  creation  of  God."  Read 
the  first  chapter  of  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  where  the  great  truth  is  pro- 
claimed by  the  Apostle,  that  "God  who 
at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  manners 
spake  unto  the  fathers  in  times  past 
by  the  prophets,  hath  in  these  last  days 
spoken  unto  us  by  His  Son,  whom  He 
has  appointed  heir  of  all  things,  by 
whom  also  he  made  the  worlds."  It 
goes  on  to  tell  that  after  he  had  purged 
us  from  our  sins  by  His  atonement,  He 
ascended  to  the  heavens  and  sat  down 
at  the  right  hand  of  the  majesty  on 
high.    This  is  the  truth  that  we  have 
to  proclaim  to  the  world.  That  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  is  one  of  the  Holy  Trinity. 
In  the  words  of  the  Apostle  John,  which 
are  repeated  here  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  from  the  mouth  of  Christ 
Himself,    "In   the  beginning  was  the 
Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and 
the  Word  was  God."  Jesus  is  God.  "All 


things  were  made  by  Him,  and  without 
Him  was  not  anything  made  that  was 
made."  That  is  the  testimony  of  John. 
And  Jesus  Himself  bore  testimony  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  this  is 
the  truth,  and  that  he  is  the  Word,  and 
the  Way,  and  the  Truth,  and  the  Life. 

In   proclaiming   this   Gospel   of  the 
Kingdom  to  the  world  we  are  proclaim- 
ing the  Gospel  of  Jesus,  the  good  tid- 
ings and  glad  news  that  Jesus  was  the 
Messiah,  that  He  is  the  Son  of  God, 
that  as  He  built  up  the  Church  when 
He  was  upon  the  earth  in  the  flesh,  so 
He  has  built  up  His  Church  anew  in 
the  last  days,  because  after  the  death 
of  His  apostles,  darkness  came  into  the 
world,  and  apostasy    from    the  truth, 
and  the  Priesthood  was  taken  away, 
but  He  has  restored  it,  and  He  is  at 
the  head  of  this  Church.    Every  one  of 
these  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,     one  or  two  of  which  we 
have  heard  read  this  afternoon,  have 
come  from  Him.     It  is  the  voice  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  and 
to  others  who  are  spoken  of  here.  He 
is  our  living  head.    We  worship  God  in 
his  name,  and  all  the  ordinances  that 
are  performed  in  this  Church  are  done 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Sa- 
vior of  the  world.    When  He  died  He 
did  not  die  as  we  do;  for  He  declared 
himself:     "No  man  taketh  My  life.  1 
have  power  to  lay  down  my  life,  and  I 
have  power  to  take  it  up  again.  And. 
this  commandment  I  have  received  of 
My  Father."    So  when  Christ  died  He 
voluntarily  laid  down  His  life  for  His 
brethren;  and  greater  love  hath  no  man 
than  this. 

We  sang  at  the  opening  of  the  ser- 
vices this  afternoon  "Worthy  the 
Lamb."  Yes,  indeed,  praise,  and  honor, 
and  glory,  and  power  will  be  unto  the 
Lamb  forever  and  ever,  But  when  He 
comes  again  it  will  not  be  as  a  Lamb, 
although  He  is  still  without  blemish 
and  without  spot — the  spotless  Lamb  of 
God — but  He  will  come  as  the  King  of 
kings,  to  sit  on  the  throne  of  His  an- 
cestor David,  and  to  rule  and  reign 
from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 
He  will  come  in  triumph,  and  in  power, 
and  the  kingdom  will  be  built  up  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


89 


Him,  and  the  people  will  be  prepared 
for  His  coming  through  the  ordinances 
which  He  has  revealed  and  the  spirit 
which  He  ia  pouring'  out.   He  will  come 
"the   second    time    without    sin  un- 
to   salvation."      We     are  building 
up    this    Church    to     Jesus  Christ, 
our    Redeemer,    who    died    for  us 
that  we  might  be  redeemed  from  the 
effects  of  the  fall;  that  as  through  the 
transgression  of  our  first  parents'  death 
came  into  the  world,  which  is  the  waget> 
of  sin,  so  by  the  perfect  righteousness 
and  atonement   and   voluntary  death 
of  our  Redeemer  we  shall  all  be  raised 
from  the  dead,  every  one  of  Adam's 
race,  and  appear  before  the  Judgment 
Seat,  and  give  an  account  of  our  own 
acts.    By  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  and 
obedience  to  His  Gospel,  we  shall  be 
cleansed  from  our  sins,  and  by  repen- 
tance and  baptism  they  shall  be  blotted 
out  through  the  atonement  and  good 
works  of  Jesus  our  Redeemer  and  Sav- 
ior of  the  world.    These  simple  truths 
should  be  impressed  and  stamped  upon 
every  soul   in   the   Church   of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.    We  wor- 
ship the  Father  in  His  name.    We  bow 
to  Him.    The  priesthood  that  we  hold 
is  a  priesthood  after  the  order  of  the 
Son  of  God.   We  minister  in  His  name. 
We  minister  by  the  power  and  influence 
which  He  has  sent  down  from  the  heav- 
ens.   Joseph  Smith  the  prophet  was, 
His  servant,  His  mouthpiece,  and  he 
received  from  Jesus  Christ  all  the  light, 
intelligence,  and  truth  there  is  mani- 
fested in  the  records  that  we  have. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to  this 
congregation  that  Jesus  Christ  is  still 
with  His  people,  with  His  priesthood, 
with  His  servants  upon  whom  He  has 
conferred  authority  to  minister  in  His 
name.  Every  key  of  power  and  authority 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
been  handed  down  to  his  successors, 
and  is  now  vested  in  the  man  who 
stands  at  our  head,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  who  is  the  lawful  successor 
of  his  ancestor,  and  who  is  clothed  with 
the  power  and  authority  of  his  calling. 
The  Lord  is  with  him,  and  His  powei 
is  around  about  him;  and  when  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  desires  to  make  any- 


thing more  manifest  for  the  govern- 
ment of  His  church   (for  this  is  Hls> 
church)  He  will  reveal  it  through  His 
servant  who  is  appointed  for  that  pur- 
pose.   His  spirit  permeates  the  whole 
church,  and  all  of  the  people  receive  of 
it  according  to  their  faith  and  their 
faithfulness,  their  diligence,  and  their 
persistence  in  seeking  after  it.  There 
are  some  of  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I.am  sorry  to  say,  who  are  not  diligent 
in   seeking   after  these   things.  The 
Lord  is  near  unto  every  one  of  us,  foi 
in  Him  we  live,  and  move,  and  havi 
our  being.    We  can  seek  Him;  we  can 
ask  and  receive;  we  can  seek  and  find; 
we  can  knock  and  the  door  will  bt 
opened  to  us;  and  every  comfort  and 
blessing  pertaining  to  the  everlasting 
Gospel  enjoyed  at  any  period  of  thx-, 
world's  history  can  be  enjoyed  today. 
But  they  must  be  sought  after  by  the 
prayer  of  faith,  and  by  diligence,  obedi- 
ence, and  by  being  in  harmony  with 
Jesus  Christ    our  living    head.  His 
spirit  will  permeate  the  Church.  His 
spirit  will  prompt  His  people  if  the> 
will  be  obedient  to  His  laws.  These 
prophecies  which  Brother  John  Henry 
Smith  read  to  us  this  afternoon  from 
the  fifty-ninth  section" of  the  "Doctrim. 
and  Covenants"  are  of  great  import- 
ance, and  there  are  blessings  promised 
predicated  upon   obedience    to  these 
laws.    Read  what  the  Lord  has  prom- 
ised to  us  if  we  will  keep  these  com- 
mandments. There  will  indeed  be  bless- 
ings  not  a  few,  and  revelations  in  the 
time  thereof;  for  God  is  a  God  of  revt- 
iation,  and  His  spirit  is  a  spirit  of  rev- 
elation, and  He  and  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  Holy  Ghost  do  not  change.  They 
are  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and  foi- 
ever;  and  they  are  not  afar  off.  Thej 
do  not  count  distance  as  we  do.  Wt, 
can  ask  and  receive,  and  while  we  arc 
asking  we  can  be  receiving.    The  time-, 
is  to  come,  according  to  ancient  prophe- 
cy, when  before  we  have  done  asking 
we  shall  receive,  because  we  shall  bt 
brought  into  such  close  harmony  with 
the  powers  that  are  on  high.    This  is 
what  we  need  in  our  homes;  to  have  thb 
spirit  of  Christ  in  our  hearts,   to  be 
kind,    forebearing   and   charitable,  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


90 

love  one  another,  to  seek  to  bless  all 
mankind  and  not  curse,  and  to  be  pa- 
tient. When  we  are  reviled  against, 
when  our  enemies  speak  evil  of  us, 
when  they  try  to  do  us  injury,  wo 
should  possess  our  souls  in  patienct 
and  wait  for  the  Lord  to  move.  Thoso 
who  will  not  repent  we  should  leave  in 
His  hands.  We  have  no  desire  to  do  in- 
jury to  any  living-  being.  I  know  that 
this  is  the  spirit  of  Christ,  and  that  we 
should  cherish  it.  We  should  not  de- 
sire to  curse  or  to  retaliate,  but  to 
bless  and  to  do  good,  to  build  up  and 
not  to  destroy.  If  we  will  seek  for 
this  spirit,  realizing  that  Christ  is  our 
living  head,  and  that  our  brethren  wht 
are  called  to  labor  in  our  midst  are 
His  servants,  and  we  are  all  building 
up  a  church  to  Christ  and  should  pat- 
tern after  Him  in  all  His  perfections 
as  far  as  we  can,  peace  will  be  in  our 
minds  and  in  our  hearts,  and  the  pow- 
er of  God  will  be  upon  the  elders  in 
carrying  the  Gospel  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth,  and  the  Lord  will  bear  them 
up  and  bring  them  off  more  than  con- 
querors. 

While  thinking  about  the  great  bless- 
ings we  are  enjoying,  the  splendid  con- 
dition of  the  Church,  financially  and 
spiritually,  the  means  that  are  being 
employed  for  the  extension  of  the  work 
and  for  providing  employment,  the 
thought  came  to  my  mind,  supposing  it 
were  not  so;  supposing  that  instead  of 
our  hearing  these  comforting  and  en- 
couraging reports  and  learning  how  the 
work  is  prospering,  and  spreading 
forth,  and  on  what  solid  foundations 
the  Church  is  being  reared,  and  how 
everything  is  smiling  and  pleasant,  we 
should  hear  another  story — that  clouds 
were  coming  over  us,  that  it  was  a  day 
of  trial, a  day  of  temptation,  a  day  when 
we  are  to  be  proven,  a  day  when  it 
would  seem  almost  as  though  the  Lord 
had  forsaken  us,  like  it  was  with  Jesus 
when  He  was  nailed  to  the  cross.  "My 
God,  My  God,  why  hast  thou  forsaken 
me,"  was  His  cry.  Not  that  God  had 
forsaken  Him,  but  He  left  Him  to  bear 
the  brunt,  that  He  might  feel  the  pain, 
that  He  might  understand  the  anguish, 
that  He  might  comprehend  how  people 
feel  u  ben  they  are  in  sorrow,  that  He 


might  be  touched  with  a  feeling  for  out 
infirmities,  because  He  bore  the  pains  of 
us  all.  Supposing  that  we  should  be 
in  such  a  condition,  should  we  falter, 
should  we  fail,  should  we  shrink?  No, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  should 
stand  Arm  in  the  liberty  wherewith  God 
has  made  us  free.  We  should  stand  in 
our  lot  and  place.  We  should  be  ready 
to  labor  for  Zion,  to  carry  the  Gospel 
forth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  to  la- 
bor at  home,  to  do  anything  and  every- 
thing that  we  can,  in  joy  or  in  sorrow, 
in  prosperity  or  in  adversity,  in  times 
that  are  good  and  times  that  appear  to 
be  bad.  We  should  always  be  on  hand, 
in  season  and  out  of  season,  ready  to 
perform  our  duty  to  the  very  best  of 
our  ability;  and  if  we  will  do  that  God 
will  fight  our  battles.  And  if  clouds  do 
arise  and  sometimes  difficulties  and 
barriers  appear  to  be  raised  in  our 
way,  God  has  the  power  and  will  exer- 
cise it  to  sweep  them  out  of  our  path. 
"Zion  will  rise  and  shine,  and  the  glory 
of  God  will  be  seen  upon  her,  and 
kings  will  come  to  her  light,  and  gen- 
tiles to  the  brightness  of  her  rising," 
as  the  prophets  of  old  have  predicted. 
The  Lord  has  to  do  with  those  things 
that  are  temporal  as  well  as  those  thai 
are  spiritual;  for  He  'has  declared  that 
"for  brass  He  will  bring  gold,  and  for 
stones  iron,  and  for  iron  He  will  bring 
silver,"  and  He  will  beautify  Zion  and 
cause  her  to  shine  and  be  made  glori- 
ous. He  will  convert  unto  her  the 
abundance  of  the  riches  of  the  earth; 
for  they  are  all  the  Lord's,  and  th<» 
Lord  has  an  interest  in  the  earth  He 
has  made.  He  fashioned  it,  He  made  it 
with  His  hands.  As  we  sing  sometimes, 
"His  hands  prepared  the  dry  land;  the 
sea  is  His  and  He  made  it."  The  cat- 
tle upon  a  thousand  hills  are  His,  and 
the  fullness  of  the  earth  and  the  pre- 
cious things  (as  we  look  upon  them) 
are  His,  and  He  can  convert  them  and 
will  do  it  to  our  good  when  we  an 
ready  to  use  them  properly.  The  Lord 
is  in  the  temporal  as  well  as  in  the 
spiritual  things  of  His  kingdom,  and 
will  be  if  we  keep  His  commandments 
and  seek  to  sanctify  them  in  His  ser- 
vice.   That  is  the  point.    As  with  Him, 


AUDITING  COMMITTEE'S  REPORT. 


91 


all  things  will  be  spiritual  to  us,  if  we 
use  them  to  the  glory  of  G-od  and  the 
benefit  of  our  fellow  creatures. 

I  rejoice  with  all  my  soul  in  the 
midst  of  this  congregation  this  after- 
noon. I  have  spent  many  years '  in  this 
glorious  ministry,  and  the  Lord  has 
blessed  me,  strengthened  and  supported 
me,  and  has  prolonged  my  days.  All 
I  am  and;  all  I  have  are  His,  and  I  de- 
sire to  devote  them  still  to  His  service, 
to- labor  for  the  salvation  of  mankind, 
the  living  and  the  dead;  to  work  undei 
the  direction  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord, 
and  His  servants  whom  He  has  ap- 
pointed to  minister  for  Him.  I  praise 
Him  with  all  my  soul  this  afternoon  foi 
His  mercies.  I  magnify  His  holy  name. 
I  bear  my  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and 
that  through  Him  and  by  Him  tht. 
worlds  were  made,  and  through  Him 
and  by  Him  they  will  be  redeemed,  and 
light  and  truth  will  prevail  and  dark- 
ness and  evil  will  be  overcome.  Satan 
will  be  bound  and  mankind  will  be  re- 
deemed from  his  thrall;  the  Christ  will 
reign  over  tbe  earth,  and  those  who 
are  true  and  faithful  unto  Him  will 
reign  with  Him  in  glory.  May  the 
peace  and  blessing  of  God  abide  with 
us  all,  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE'S  REPORT. 

President  Smith  then  read  the  follow- 
ing report  of  the  auditing  committee 
appointed  at  the  last  semi-annual  con- 
ference. 

Salt  Lake  City,  Uta     April  4,  1906. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Coun- 
selors, Salt  Lake  City. 

Dear  Brethren — We,  the  committee 
appointed  to  audit  the  accounts  of  the 
Church  for  the  year  1905,  beg  leave 
to  report  as  follows: 

We  have  examined  the  accounts  of 
the  Trustee-in-Trust,  and  are  pleased 
to  say  that  they  are  kept  in  a  very 
business-like  manner,  that  the  me- 
chanical part  is  very  well  done,  and 
that  as  a  matter  of  bookkeeping  they 
leave  nothing  to  be  desired. 

We  have  also  examined  the  ac- 
counts of  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office, 
together  with  the  auxiliary  accounts 
which  are  reported  to  that  office. 
These   accounts   cover   a   very  wide 


range,  as  you  are  aware,  dealing  with 
every  stake  president  and  bishop  in 
the  Church;  and  also  dealing,  as  they 
do,  with  things  other  than  cash,  there 
is  a  large  amount  of  labor  and  a  great 
degree  of  technical  knowledge  of  book- 
keeping and  executive  ability  involved 
in  properly  keeping  them,  and  we  are 
pleased  to  say  that  we  found  every- 
thing in  a  very  satisfactory  condition. 
The  accounts  are  as  accurately  kept 
as  those  of  any  bank  or  mercantile  in- 
stitution of  a  high  order.  We  also 
noted  that  the  presidents  of  stakes  and 
bishops  of  wards  are  so  fully  instruct- 
ed in  reference  to  the  care  of  the 
revenues  of  the  Church  which  come 
into  their  hands  that  there  is  a  very 
c-mall  percentage  of  loss  or  waste,  and 
the  accounting  is  made  on  an  intelli- 
gent and  comprehensive  basis. 

We  also  audited  the  books  of  the 
Deseret  News,  and  found  that  the  ac- 
counts have  been  kept  with  care  and  ■ 
accuracy.  The  Deseret  News,  in  our 
judgment,  is  ably  and  judiciously  man- 
aged, and  the  business  is  in  a  prosper- 
ous condition. 

It  gives  us  pleasure  to  report  to  you 
Anally,  that  the  accounting  in  the  dif- 
ferent departments  leaves  no  room  for 
criticism,  and  so  pleased  were  we  with 
the  condition  in  which  we  found  things 
that  our  labors  have  occasioned  us 
great  satisfaction. 

The  purposes  for  which  disburse- 
ments of  the  tithing  revenues  have 
been  made  are  exclusively  for  the  use 
and  benefit  of  the  various  interests  of 
the  Church,  and  therefore  meet  with 
our  commendation  and  approval.  We 
are  satisfied  from  our  investigations 
that  the  financial  affairs  of  the  Church, 
under  the  direction  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, have  been  conducted  in  a  most 
conservative  and  economical  manner. 
Tour  Brethren, 

RUDGER  CLAWSON, 
W.  W.  RITER, 
•CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY, 
A.  W.  CARLSON, 
Members  of  the  Auditing  Committee. 

President  Smith  repeated  a  former 
statement  that  any  tithe-payer  who 
is  dissatisfied  with  the  manner  in  which 
disbursements  are  made  has  the  privi- 
lege of  inspecting  the  Church  records  at 
any  time. 

The  question  of  accepting  the  report 
of  the  committee  was  put  to  the  con- 
ference by  President  Lyman  with  the 
result  that  the  report  was  accepted 
unanimously. 

The  choir,  with  soloists,  sang,  "Why 
Do  the  Nations  Rage." 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

(Closing  address.) 

Religious  and  secular  educational  institu- 
tions of  the  State  flourishing.— Re- 
sources of  the  State  heing  developed. — 
Spiritual  condition  of  the  Saints  excel- 
lent.— The  Lord  will  sustain  His  Church 
and  people.— Sorrow  because  of  vacan- 
cies that  have  occurred  in  Councils  of 
the  Twelve  and  Seventies. 

We  feel  that  our  time  is  very  pre- 
cious when  there  is  so  large  a  gather- 
ing of  representatives  of  the  various 
departments    of   the    Church,  conse- 
quently our  discourses  are  necessarily 
brief.     We  have  heard  from  quite  a 
number  of  our  brethren  during  the 
conference  as  to  the  condition  of  af- 
fairs among  the  Saints  who  are  gath- 
ered in  Zion,  and  also  in  the  various 
missions  throughout  the  United  States. 
We  have  heard  of  the  great  good  that 
is  being  accomplished  by  the  Church 
school  system,  and  the  great  expense 
which   the    Church   has   incurred  in 
sustaining  our  Church  schools  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion.     A  splendid  work  is 
also  being  done  in  our  state  by  the 
district  schools,  the  high  schools,  the 
Agricultural   College,   the  University, 
and   by   denominational   schools;  for 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  the  only 
people  who  believe  in  church  school 
education.    Our  Christian  brethren  of 
various  denominations  have  establish- 
ed some  excellent  schools,  and  these, 
together       with       the  Latter-day 
Saint  schools,  are  aiding  very  much 
to  place  this  state  in  the  front  rank 
educationally.    As  a  State,  w.e  are  en- 
titled to  congratulation  for  the  educa- 
tional effort  put  forth.    The  agricul- 
tural resources  of  the  State  are  being 
developed;    the   mineral   deposits  are 
being  opened  up,  and  we  are  becoming 
one  of  the  rich  states.    Though  we  are 
not  quite  60  years  of  age,  we  compare 
favorably  with  the  states  about  us. 
some   of  which  are  older  and  some 
younger.     The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
doing  their  part  in  this,  and  are  re- 
ceiving their  fair  measure   of  pros- 
perity and  blessing.     They  have  led 
out  particularly  in  developing  the  ag- 
ricultural and  educational  departments 
of  the  State,  and  have  done  consider- 


able also  in  developing  the  mineral 
resources  of  the  country;  and  in  com- 
mon with  the  other  people  of  the 
State,  they  are  sharing  in  the  pros- 
perity. Our  sugar  industry  has  been 
referred  to.  Tt  has  brought  much 
wealth  to  our  state,  although  it  has 
only  been  running  a  few  years,  and 
the  prospects  are  altogether  favorable 
for  the  future.  We  have  led  the  way 
in  this  industry  in  the  United  States; 
at  least,  we  have  very  closely  followed 
those  that  have  been  in  the  lead. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  His  work.  Tou 
have  heard   the  testimonies  of  our 
brethren  in  regard  to  the  truth  of  this 
work.     The  Lord  has  established  it, 
and  will  maintain  it  to  the  end.  We 
understand  that  it  is  established  never 
to  be  thrown  down,  and  never  to  be 
given  to  another  people.     The  Lord 
has  blessed  us  individually  with  a  posi- 
tive testimony  in  regard  to  the  truth, 
so  that  whatever  afflictions  and  trials 
come  upon  us,  we  do  not  fall  simply 
because  others  do.    If  calamity  comes 
upon  one,  it  is  not  necessary  that  an- 
other should  fall  down;  the  Lord  will 
sustain   every   individual   member  of 
His  Church.    Whatever  we  may  have 
to  grapple  with  in  this  life,  whatever 
losses,  financial  or  otherwise,  the  Lord 
will  sustain  us  if  we  will  but  remain 
faithful  and  true  to  him.    Up  to  this 
date  the  Lord  has  not  forsaken  His 
people.    He  never  will  forsake  them; 
He  will  care  for  them  as  a  whole,  and 
ir>  the  various   departments  of  His 
kingdom.    He  has  ordained  that  in  the 
organization,   which  is  so   perfect  in 
all  its  departments,  there  shall  be  no 
breach.    There  shall  nothing  occur  to 
break  the  force  and  power  of  this 
work.   Men  may  die;  men  may  aposta- 
tize and  turn  from  the  truth,  families 
and  lar.ge  numbers  of  people  may. 
There  have  at  different  times  been 
losses  to  the  Church  by  schisms  and 
other  troubles;   but  the  Church  has 
been  so  trained  and  disciplined,  during 
its  existence  of  seventy-six  years,  that 
today  there  is  a  solid  phalanx  of  veter- 
ans who  have  seen  service  and  passed 
through  trials  and  tribulations  with- 
out being  disturbed.     So  when  afflic- 


PRESTIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


93 


tions  come,  when  difficulties  arise,  and 
we  are  threatened  from  all  directions, 
we  possess  our  souls  in  patience  and 
wait  upon  the  Lord,  for  we  do  know 
that  this  work  is  the  Lord's. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
accomplished  his  mission  on  the  earth; 
the  same  with  President  Young,  Presi- 
dent Taylor,  President  Woodruff,  and 
President  Snow.  President  Joseph  P. 
Smith  is  with  us  today,  and  he  will  ac- 
complish his  mission,  as  his  predeces- 
sors have  done,  and  will  go  to  his  re- 
ward. So  will  we  all  in  due  time;  but 
we  will  not  go  till  we  get  through;  and 
we  intend  to  be  just  as  long  getting 
through  and  finishing  our  work  on  this 
earth  as  we  possibly  can  be.  In  other 
words,  we  intend  to  live. 

I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
we  have  everything  to  encourage  us,  to 
increase  our  faith,  and  establish  our 
standing  and  fellowship  in  the  favor  of 
the  Lord.    We  have  no  reason  to  find 
fault  or  complain.    We  may  have  trials 
ourselves;    we    may    have  di;culties 
with  our  neighbors;     various  things 
happen  that  we  consider  very  serious 
afflictions  at  times,  but  they  prove  ben- 
eficial in  the  end  to  those  who  are» 
faithful.      They      demonstrate  the 
strength  of  the  fibre  of  which  we  are 
made,  and  the  measure  of  testimony 
and  faith  that  we  have  in  the  Lord. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  can  be  trusted; 
they  have  always  been  worthy  to  b(* 
trusted.     They   have   been   true  and 
faithful,  and  will  be  to  the  end,  as  a 
people.    We  need  have  no  trouble  or 
fear,  for  we  have  been  made  free  by  the 
Truth.    The  Gospel  we  have  embraced 
has  made  us  able  to  endure  the  trials 
and  hardships  of  life.    We  are  increas- 
ing in  numbers,  in  wealth,  in  influence 
and  in  power,  and  the  Lord  is  entitled 
to  the  credit,  for  it  is  He  that  enables 
us  to  do  it.  We  are  under  obligation  to 
Him  for  our  very  being,  as  well  as  for 
what  we  are  accomplishing. 

I  want  to  draw  attention  to  the  fact 
that  throughout  Zion,  not  only  is  there 
material  prosperity,  the  result  of  agri- 
culture, mining,  manufacturing  and  tht 
"ke,  but  there  is  spiritual  prosperity 
also.  Our  houses  of  worship  are  being 
greatly  improved,  and  we  are  building 


splendid   new   meetinghouses,  almost 
like  temples;  I  am  not  sure  but  we  have 
gone  a  little  to  the  extreme  in  that  re- 
gard.   The  school  buildings  throughout 
the  state  are  very  creditable;  in  fact, 
when  you  travel  and  see  what  has  been 
accomplished  in  this  line,  you  can  dis- 
cover that  there  is  faith  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people  of  this  state,  and  a  love  for 
education,   and  they  are  generous  in 
the  building  of  schoolhouses,  academies 
and  universities.    The  spirit  of  educa- 
tion has  taken  hold  of  the  people,  and 
we  are  in  the  front  rank  with  states 
that  are  more  than  a  hundred  years 
old.   In  these  matters  we  have  nothing 
to  be  ashamed  of.   When  our  boys  and 
girls  obtain  all  the  education  they  cai. 
in  the  district  schools  and  high  schools 
here,  we  occasionally  send  them  from 
home  into  the  older  states,  and  even- 
across  the  water  to  Europe,  that  they 
may  have  the  advantages  of  the  best 
schools  in  the  world.     In  addition  to 
that,  our  people  travel  largely  abroad 
as  missionaries,  preaching  the  Gospel 
throughout  the  world,  and  thereby  get 
training  and  experience  that  is  most 
valuable.    This  state,  and  the  states 
and  territories  surrounding  us,  when 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  in  consider- 
able numbers,  are  having  the  benefit  of 
all  this. 

Now,  we  feel  very  grateful  for  tht 
generous  attendance  of  the  people  at 
this  conference.    After  drawing  atten- 
tion to  many  good  things  we  have  to 
encourage  us,  and  make  us  happy  and 
joyous,  and  to  thank  the  Lord  for,  we 
have  some  things  to  be  very  sorrowful 
about.    It  becomes  my  duty  to  an- 
nounce officially  to  the  Church  that,  on 
the  6th  day  of  February,  in  the  city  of 
Richmond,  Cache  County,  our  beloved 
brother,  President  Marriner  W.  Mer- 
rill, passed  from  this  life,  making  a  va- 
cancy in  the  council  of  the  Twelve. 
Also  to  announce  to  you  the  resigna- 
tion of  our  beloved  brethren,  John  W. 
Taylor  and  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  from 
their  positions  in  that  Council,  because 
they  found  themselves  out  of  harmony 
with  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and 
the  quorum  to  which  they  belonged. 
Their  res'gnations,  you  may  well  ap- 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


preciate,  caused  us  the  deepest  sorrow 
They  were  accepted  by  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  First  Pres- 
idency on  the  28th  day  of  last  October, 
causing'  two  more  vacancies  in  'the 
Council.  On  the  23rd  day  of  December 
last  our  beloved  brother,  President 
Christian  D.  Fjelsted,  a  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventies, passed  away, 
leaving  a  vacancy  in  that  presiding 
quorum.  Here  are  four  important  va- 
cancies, which  will  be  filled  at  this 
conference,  as  we  have  been  directed 
to  do  by  the  Lord,  through  our  Presi- 
dent, Joseph  F.  Smith. 


AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED. 

President  Lyman  then  presented  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  as 
follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 

Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 

of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
John  R.  Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 

the  First  Presidency;  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
as  second  counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
Hyrum  M.  Smith,  George  A.  Smith, 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  George  F.  Rich- 
ards, Orson  F.  Whitney  and  David  O. 
McKay. 

John  Smith,  as  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers, 
and  Revelators. 

First  seven  presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham  H.  Rob- 
erts, George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G. 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin  and  Charles  H.  Hart. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 


Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Trustee-in-Trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  A.  Milton  Musser, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts  and  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  assistant  historians. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John 
Nicholson,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rudger 
Clawson,  John  R.  Winder  and  Charles 
W.  Penrose.  Arthur  Winter,  secre- 
tary and  treasurer  to  the  general 
Church  board  of  education. 

Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Wil- 
liam W.  Riter,  Charles  W.  Nibley  and 
August  W.  Carlson,  auditing  committee. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

Evan  Stephens,  as  director  of  tht 
Tabernacle  choir,  with  Horace  S.  En- 
sign, assistant;  John  J.  McClellan,  or- 
ganist; Edward  P.  Kimball,  assistant 
organist,  and  all  the  members  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir. 

President  Lyman  announced  that  the 
voting  was  unanimously  affirmed  in 
every  case. 

President  Lyman  concluded,  as  fol- 
lows: 

I  pray  that  the  Sprit  of  the  Lord  may 
go  with  us  to  our  homes  from  this 
conference,  that  we  may  continue  our 
faithful  labors,  and  that  our  devotion 
to  the  cause  of  the  Lord  shall  increase, 
and  be  intensified  and  strengthened 
from  this  time  forth.  The  Lord  is 
with  His  people,  and  they  will  prosper 
from  this  time  forth  more  than  ever  be- 
fore. We  have  heard  today  that  this  ft 
the  banner  year  in  our  temporal  pros- 
perity, but  this  will  seem  small  con.> 
pared  with  the  prosperity  that  will  at- 
tend the  people  hereafter.  God  bless 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ORGAN  RECITALS. 

President  Smith  requested  a  vote  of 
the  conference  on  the  proposition  that 
free  organ  recitals  be  given  in  this 
building  every  Tuesday  and  Friday, 
till   next   conference,   explaining  that 


CONFERENCE  ADJOURNED. 


he  -wished  the  vote  of  the  Saints  be- 
cause it  required  an  expenditure  of 
means  to  heat  and  light  the  building-. 
A  vote  approving  the  proposition  was 

the  result. 

The  choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah 
Chorus,"  and  the  benediction  was  pro- 
nounced by  President  John  R.  Winder, 


'  95 

after  which  conference  was  adjourned 
for  six  months. 


The  stenographic  report  of  these 
proceedings  was  taken  by  Elders  Ar- 
thur Winter  and  P.  E.  Barker. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


