ONE-HUNDRED  AND  FIRST 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  3,  4,  5,  1930 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


IS) 


CA  ct5hvillin&  Story  of 

CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 

mERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 
This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  First  Semi- Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  First  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  3,  4,  and  5, 
1930,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  proceedings  of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broad- 
cast by  radio  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  WL  Ivins,  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
David  O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  *,  Richard 
R.  Lyman,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  f . 

Presiding  Patriarch :  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  and  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  various  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wiards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  were 
in  attendance.  Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and 
general,  stake,  and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  were 
present.  ,  j  ■  < 

Mission  Presidents  as  follows:  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States; 
Noah  S.  Pond,  Northern  States;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central 
States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western 


♦Stephen  L.  Richards  was  absent,  on  account  of  illness. 

fjohn  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

$A.  William  Lund  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


States ;  William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States ;  Charles  H.  Hart, 
Canada ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ; 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
10  o'clock,  Friday,  October  3,  1930. 

The  great  auditorium  and  galleries  were  well  filled  with  people  from 
all  parts  of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  assembly  to  order,  and  the 
services  were  commenced  by  the  congregation  singing  the  hymn, 
"Now  let  us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 

Elder  Claudius  Hirschi,  President  of  the  Zion  Park  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Zion  Stands  with  Hills  Sur- 
rounded." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  always  a  pleasure  to  me  to  meet  with  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  any  of  their  public  gatherings,  and  especially  am  I  pleased  to  be 
present  at  the  General  Conferences  of  the  Church,  having  had  the 
privilege  of  attending  them  from  my  childhood  until  the  present  time. 

There  are  assembled  I  am  sure  in  this  city  today  fully  twenty 
thousand  people  from  different  sections  of  the  Church,  from  Canada  on 
the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  who  will  attend  these  meetings. 
In  addition  there  will  be  several  hundred  thousand  who  will  attend  our 
meetings  by  means  of  the  marvelous  radio.  It  is  wonderful  how  many 
people  are  permitted  to  listen  in,  those  who  have  a  desire  to  do  so,  to 
our  conference  proceedings.  In  many  of  our  Wards  and  Stakes  the 
meetinghouses  will  be  filled  with  those  who  will  hear  as  plainly  and 
partake  of  the  spirit  I  believe  as  perfectly  almost  as  those  who  are 
assembled  in  this  building  today. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunities  that  have  come  to  preach  the  Gospel 
through  the  means  of  the  radio.  One  day  four  letters  were  received 
from  New  Zealand,  announcing  the  perfect  reception  of  a  program 
broadcast  by  KSL. 

CENTENNIAL  CELEBRATION  PUBLICITY 

We  rejoice  in  the  marvelous  Conference  that  was  held  here  six 
months  ago.  When  we  think  of  this  building  being  filled  for  thirty 
evenings  by  people  who  attended  the  wonderful  pageant  that  was 
presented,  it  is  another  marvel  to  contemplate  the  fact  that  publicity 
was  given  to  millions  of  people  regarding  that  great  pageant.  I  have 
here  on  exhibit  and  I  wish  to  show  you  what  is  merely  a  collection  of 
newspaper  clippings  regarding  our  Centennial  celebration.    Over  three 


'PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


thousand  newspapers  gave  us  favorable  notices.  The  great  change 
that  has  come  about  since  the  days  of  my  boyhood  in  the  general 
attitude  toward  this  people  is  almost  beyond  contemplation  or  ex- 
pectation. 

I  can  remember  when  I  was  the  junior  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  forty-eight  years  ago  this  month,  that  during  my  first 
trips  away  from  home,  almost  invariably,  wherever  I  went  I  found 
opposition.  I  found  ill-will  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  found 
men  so  full  of  bitterness  toward  us  that  they  said  if  they  had  their  way 
the  "Mormons"  would  be  shut  up  in  their  tabernacle  and  the  guns  of 
Fort  Douglas  be  turned  upon  them.  Today,  wherever  I  go  I  find  the 
opposite  feeling;  I  find  good-will;  I  find  kindness;  I  find  readiness 
and  willingness  on  the  part  of  newspapers  to  give  us  favorable  public 
notices.    Anything  we  wish  to  say  they  are  willing  to  print. 

ATTITUDE  OF  THE  PRESS 

During  the  time  when  I  presided  over  the  Japanese  Mission  there 
were  some  vile  things  published  in  that  country  about  us;  and  when 
I  obtained  affidavits  from  home  refuting  the  published  statements 
I  could  not  get  them  into  the  papers  that  had  published  the  scurrilous 
articles  against  us.  During  my  presidency  of  the  European  Mission, 
for  three  long  years,  I  never  succeeded  in  getting  one  single  line  of 
refutation  printed  in  the  papers  in  England.  Some  very  pernicious 
articles  were  written  about  us,  but  the  newspapers  would  not  publish 
refutations  of  those  articles.  Today,  we  are  getting  very  favorable 
publicity.  The  newspapers  are  open  to  the  president  of  the  European 
Mission,  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe.  We  regret  his  absence  from  the 
meetings  of  this  Conference.   We  would  be  delighted  if  he  were  here. 

We  also  regret  very  much  the  absence  of  Elder  Stephen  L. 
Richards  on  account  of  ill  health. 

I  remember  calling  upon  one  newspaper  in  London  that  had  pub- 
lished some  seven  to  ten  columns  of  vile  stuff  about  the  "Mormons," 
and  I  took  with  me  a  letter  of  introduction  from  a  large  shipping 
firm  in  Liverpool — with  which  we  had  done  business  for  over  sixty 
years — ■  vouching  not  only  for  my  integrity  as  president  of  the  European 
Mission,  but  for  the  integrity  of  all  of  my  predecessors,  and  yet  they 
would  not  publish  a  single  line.  I  told  them  I  had  letters  of  introduction 
from  all  of  the  non-"Mormon"  bankers  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  from 
bankers  in  New  York,  San  Francisco,  and  Chicago,  and  from  the 
largest  wholesale  dry  goods  house  in  New  York,  vouching  for  my 
honesty,  and  gave  them  my  word  of  honor  that  what  they  had  published 
was  false.   Yet  they  would  not  publish  a  thing  in  our  favor. 

SOURCE  OF  GRATITUDE 

To  have  over  three  thousand  newspapers ;  to  have  the  Associated 
Press;  to  have  the  Hearst  papers,  and  to  have  western  papers — 
especially  in  Utah  and  in  Idaho — the  newspapers  generally,  give 
us  such  extended  and  favorable  articles  as  this  immense  volume 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


contains,  is  a  cause  of  deep  gratitude  on  my  part  and  that  of  my 
associates  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  These  no- 
tices and  editorials  as  well  as  the  original  articles  that  appeared 
with  illustrations,  are  all  that  we  could  possibly  have  asked.  "There  was 
very  seldom  anything  published  during  our  Centennial  Conference 
that  was  not  favorable.  The  Associated  Press  and  special  representa- 
tives of  various  newspapers  sent  out  truthful  and  informative  notices. 
This  is  a  source  of  profound  gratitude  on  our  part. 

FOR  WHAT  WE  ARE 

I  announced  to  the  good  sisters  yesterday  in  their  Relief  Society 
Conference  that  we  are  becoming  known  for  what  we  are,  a  God- 
fearing, honest,  upright  people,  striving  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep 
his  commandments,  carrying  a  message  of  good  will  to  all  the  world. 
All  that  we  have  ever  asked  or  expected  is  that  people  shall  judge 
us  by  the  standards  laid  down  by  the  Savior  of  the  world,  "By  their 
fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

We  have  a  lower  divorce  rate,  we  have  a  higher  marriage  rate, 
we  have  a  higher  birth  rate,  we  have  a  lower  death  rate,  we  have 
a  lower  criminal  rate,  than  other  people. 

I  know  of  nothing  for  which  I  am  more  grateful  than  to  realize 
that  we  are  coming  into  our  own,  that  we  are  being  accepted  for  exactly 
what  we  are,  a  God-fearing  and  splendid  people. 

IN  FULFILMENT  OF  PROPHECY 

The  accomplishments  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  in  absolute 
and  full  accord  with  the  prophecy  delivered  on  the  west  bank  of  the 
Mississippi  river  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  recorded  in  the 
prophet's  journal  under  date  of  August  6,  1842 : 

"I  prophesied  that  the  Saints  would  continue  to  suffer  much  affliction 
and  would  be  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Many  would  apostatize,  others 
would  be  put  to  death  by  our  persecutors  or  lose  their  lives  in  consequence 
of  exposure  or  disease,  and  some  of  you  will  live  to  go  and  assist  in  making 
settlements  and  build  cities,  and  see  the  Saints  become  a  mighty  people  in  the 
midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains." 

This  has  been  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter  and  we  have  over  one 
thousand  wards  and  branches  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on 
the  south.  The  Church  has  expended  during  the  last  three  years  be- 
tween three  and  four  million  dollars  in  assisting  to  erect  local  meeting- 
houses. The  people  have  contributed  a  like  amount.  As  you  know 
we  have  builded  here  a  four-million-dollar  temple,  and  we  have  built 
temples  in  St.  George,  Manti,  Logan,  Canada,  Arizona  and  the  Hawaiian 
Islands,  costing  in  all  many  millions  of  money.  We  have  in  very  deed 
fulfilled  that  prophecy  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  this  western  country 
was  considered  worthless.  When  you  think  of  this  arid  region,  when 
you  think  that  it  was  considered  of  no  value,  and  then  realize  what 
has  been  accomplished,  it  is  beyond  question  that  we  have  fulfilled  that 
prediction. 


[PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


At  the  very  time  this  prophecy  was  uttered,  Daniel  Webster,  one 
of  the  foremost  statesmen  in  the  United  States  at  that  time,  said: 

"What  do  we  want  with  this  vast  worthless  area,  this  region  of  savages 
and  wild  beasts,  of  deserts,  of  shifting  sands,  and  whirlwinds  of  dust,  of  cactus 
and  prairie  dogs?  To  what  use  could  we  ever  hope  to  put  those  great  deserts 
or  those  endless  mountain  ranges,  impenetrable  and  covered  to  their  very  bases 
with  eternal  snow?  What  can  we  ever  hope  to  do  with  the  western  coast  of 
three  thousand  miles,  rock-bound,  cheerless,  uninviting  and  not  a  harbor  on  it? 
Mr.  President,  T  will  never  vote  one  cent  from  the  public  treasury  to  place  the 
Pacific  Coast  one  inch  nearer  Boston  than  it  now  is." 

MARVELOUS  RESOURCES 

When  I  think  of  the  magnificent  harbor  at  Seattle,  and  the  wonder- 
ful Golden  Gate  harbor  as  well  as  others  on  the  Pacific  Coast,  I  am 
aware  that  Daniel  Webster  was  not  very  well  posted.  When  we  think 
of  this  "worthless"  country — Utah,  Idaho,  Arizona,  Colorado,  New 
Mexico  and  California — having  furnished  more  wealth  so  far  as  the 
precious  metals  are  concerned  than  any  other  part  or  all  of  the  balance, 
I  think,  of  the  United  States ;  when  we  realize  that  we  have  one  mine 
here,  a  copper  mine,  the  copper  being  mined  in  a  most  unusual  and 
wonderful  way,  having  paid  as  I  recall  over  one  hundred  and  fifty 
million  dollars  in  dividends,  working  successfully  ore  that  does  not  run 
one  per  cent — less  than  twenty  pounds  of  copper  to  a  ton — handling 
upon  one  occasion  more  than  eighty  thousand  tons  in  a  day,  or  double 
as  much  as  was  handled  in  a  day  in  the  construction  of  the  Panama 
canal ;  when  we  think  of  the  millions  upon  millions  of  dollars'  worth 
of  gold  produced  in  California;  when  we  think  of  the  rich  copper 
mines  in  Arizona,  to  say  nothing  of  silver,  lead  and  gold  in  all  these 
sections,  and  Colorado's  immense  wealth,  we  realize  that  Daniel  Webster 
did  not  know  very  much  about  this  country. 

But  the  only  point  I  wish  to  make  is  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
realize  and  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  the  representative  of 
God  and  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  his  sayings  have  been  fulfilled 
to  the  very  letter. 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES 

I  am  very  happy  in  contemplating  the  prosperity  that  prevails 
today,  and  my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  for  the  change  that  has  taken 
place  at  home  and  abroad.  While  the  world  is  in  a  state  of  commotion 
and  there  is  perplexity  among  the  nations,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
no  fears  for  the  future.  The  signs  of  the  times  indicate  the  near 
approach  of  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  the  work  that  we  are  engaged 
in  is  a  preparatory  one  for  that  great  event. 

NEVER  WHILE  THE  WORLD  STANDS 

In  speaking  here  last  month,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  referred 
to  a  statement  made  by  a  minister  to  the  effect  that  unless  the  "Mormon" 
Church  can  withstand  the  criticism  of  intelligent  people,  the  test  of 
modern  science,  etc.,  it  must,  in  the  next  one  hundred  years,  be  counted 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  category  of  declining  religions  and  that  it  would  then  be  necessary 
for  us  to  shift  our  faith  from  Joseph  Smith  and  his  reputed  revelations. 

Never  while  the  world  stands  will  it  be  necessary  for  us  to  shift 
our  faith.  God  lives,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  He 
has  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  and 
we  proclaim  to  all  the  world  that  we  know  that  he  lives  and  that  God 
has  given  to  us  individually  a  testimony  regarding  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  Joseph  Smith.  We  have  the  truth,  and  as  the  great  lawyer 
said  to  those  who  were  fighting  Christianity,  we  can  repeat  today : 

"Then  stood  there  up  one  in  the  council,  a  Pharisee  named  Gamaliel,  a  doctor 
of  the  law,  had  in  reputation  among  all  the  people,  and  commanded  to  put  the 
apostles  forth  a  little  space; 

"And  said  unto  them,  Ye  men  of  Israel,  take  heed  to  yourselves  what  ye 
intend  to  do  as  touching  these  men.    *   *  * 

"Refrain  from  these  men,  and  let  them  alone ;  for  if  this  work  be  of  men, 
it  will  come  to  naught: 

'  But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow  it ;  lest  haply  ye  be  found  to  fight 
against  God." 

DURING  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS 

This  work  is  of  God  and  it  has  been  proclaimed  now  for  over  a 
hundred  years.  We  are  here  today  assembled  celebrating  the  one  hun- 
dred and  first  semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  During  all  of  these  one  hundred  years  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  as  revealed  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  has  been  proclaimed  all  over  the  world  wherever  there 
has  been  religious  liberty.  In  every  land  and  in  every  clime  wherever 
it  has  been  proclaimed  honest  men  and  honest  women  have  received 
the  message,  have  accepted  the  Gospel,  have  gone  down  into  the 
waters  of  baptism,  have  pledged  their  lives  and  their  fortunes  for 
the  advancement  of  this  work.  From  every  religious  denomination 
under  heaven  we  have  gathered  converts.  I  have  never  investigated 
beyond  my  own  experience  in  life,  but  I  know  of  no  single  missionary 
who  has  gone  out  into  the  world,  not  one,  who  has  been  converted  to 
any  other  religion  and  come  home  to  announce  that  this  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  not  true.  But  by  the  hundreds  and  thousands,  during 
my  life,  I  have  heard  the  testimonies  of  the  young  men  and  the  young 
women  who  have  gone  out  to  proclaim  this  Gospel  returning  from  their 
missionary  work  and  bearing  witness  that  they  had  an  increased  knowl- 
edge of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  that  their  testimonies  had  been 
strengthened.  Think  of  it!  What  a  wonderful  miracle  it  is  that  with 
this  "false"  prophet  and  these  "purported"  revelations  our  young  in- 
experienced members  of  the  Church  go  out  and  come  in  contact  with 
all  the  education,  all  the  learning,  and  all  the  faiths  of  the  world,  and 
yet  the  churches  have  not  been  able  to  convert  any  of  them  and  show 
them  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  leads  to  life  eternal. 

WITNESS  TO  THE  WORLD 

I  bear  my  witness  to  you  today — and  I  am  talking  now  not  only 
to  the  people  who  are  here  assembled  but  to  the  people  who  may  be 


PRESIDENT  HEBER   J.  GRANT 


7 


listening  in  by  means  of  the  radio,  at  home  or  abroad,  in  the  United 
States  or  in  foreign  countries — I  bear  my  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
he  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits;  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the 
living  God ;  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living 
God,  and  that  his  words  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are 
the  inspired  words  of  a  prophet  of  God.  I  desire  all  men  to  know 
that  the  revelation  or  vision  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  as  contained  in  the 
seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  absolutely  true. 
I  have  repeated  two  passages  from  that  section  time  and  time  again, 
and  I  shall  repeat  them  again  now,  in  this  day  of  doubt. 

Some  years  ago  many  ministers  of  the  gospel,  even  several  hundred 
of  them,  were  asked  the  following  questions : 

"Do  you  believe  in  God,  the  Father ;  God  a  person  *  *  *  in  whose  image  you 
were  made? 

"Do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  sent  by  him 
to  save  the  world  *  *  *  that  he  is  God's  very  Son,  with  a  divinely  appointed 
and  definite  mission,  dying  on  the  cross  and  raised  from  the  dead? 

"Do  you  believe  that  when  you  die  you  will  live  again  as  a  conscious 
intelligence,  knowing  who  you  are  and  who  other  people  are?" 

These  questions  were  put  to  ministers  in  the  New  England  States, 
and  not  a  single  one  gave  an  unequivocal  answer,  Yes,  notwithstanding 
they  had  been  asked  to  answer  them  Yes  or  No. 

THE  FAITH  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

All  three  of  those  questions  can  be  answered  by  every  Latter- 
day  Saint.  We  believe  that  God  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  that 
he  proclaimed  Jesus  Christ  as  his  "Well  Beloved  Son." 

And  now,  I  quote  from  the  vision  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
Sidney  Rigdon : 

"And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us : 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world,  and 
to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it  from 
all  unrighteousness. 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him." 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  that  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  that  he  lives ! 

"''For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
declaring  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father— 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  were  created,  and 
the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

So  there  is  no  dubiety  in  our  minds.  One  man  said  to  me,  "The 
only  religious  people  I  ever  met  in  my  life  who  have  a  perfect  faith 
in  and  an  absolute  assurance  of  their  final  destiny  are  the  Mormons." 
And  it  is  true. 

IN  DEEP  GRATITUDE 

I  feel  that  I  have  occupied  enough  time.  I  rejoice  in  the  advance- 
ment of  the  work  of  God.    My  heart  goes  out  in  deep  gratitude  to  the 


8 


GENERAL  ■  CONFERENCE 


members  of  the  committee  who  furnished  that  magnificent  pageant. 
I  thank  the  men  who  secured  this  wonderful  publicity  for  us.  It  is 
marvelous. 

May  the  Lord  bless  each  and  every  one  who  has  a  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work  to  so  live  the  Gospel  that  his  life  will  pro- 
claim its  message  to  the  people  of  the  world.  The  promise  is  made 
that  those  who  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  shall  know  of  the  doctrine 
whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  it  be  of  man.  Having  fulfilled  the 
law  and  having  received  the  knowledge  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  we  pray  that  he  may  help  us  to  live  it.  May  he  help  us  to 
be  absolutely  honest  in  the  payment  of  our  tithes,  in  observing  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  and  setting  an  example  that  will  cause  men  and 
women  to  investigate  the  message  that  we  have  to  bear.  It  is  my 
humble  prayer  that  the  Lord  will  bless  every  honest-hearted  soul  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  source  of  deep  satisfaction  to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting 
the  officers  of  Stakes  and  Wards  and  members  of  the  Church  in  general 
in  this  great  Conference.  I  am  greatly  surprised,  however,  to  be 
called  upon  to  address  you  at  this  session.  I  pray  earnestly  for  the 
inspiration  and  guidance  of  God's  Holy  Spirit  and  for  your  sympathy 
and  prayers. 

I  am  not  sure  that  I  can  give  to  you  in  the  brief  time  allotted,  in 
a  manner  that  I  should  like  to  give  it,  the  message  that  I  have  in 
my  heart. 

THE  CITIZEN'S  RESPONSIBILITY 

Many  many  years  ago  a  wise  man  said,  and  it  has  echoed  through 
the  ages : 

"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and  when  he  is  old  he  will  not 
depart  from  it." 

I  wish  to  add  as  a  corollary: 

"Punish  a  man  when  he  is  old,  and  he  will  not  likely  depart  from  the  habits 
of  a  lifetime." 

I  am  constrained  to  refer  to  the  great  concern  in  the  minds  of  the 
leaders  of  our  nation  and  of  thinking  men  generally  regarding  the  law- 
less condition  now  prevalent,  particularly  here  in  the  United  States. 
Recently  a  committee  of  the  American  Bar  Association  appointed  to 
study  existing  conditions,  reported  that  the  criminal  situation  in  the 
United  States  is  undoubtedly  worse  than  in  any  other  civilized  country. 
I  think  it  is  time  that  the  people  arouse  themselves  to  a  realization  of 
their  responsibility  in  regard  to  this  condition.  We  are  prone  to  dismiss 
all  social  responsibility  by  blaming  the  law  and  depending  upon  the 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


9 


lawyers  to  bring  about  a  reform.  But  I  think  the  citizen  carries  much 
of  the  responsibility  for  this  condition. 

PREVENTION  RATHER  THAN  CURE 

If  we  look  at  the  statistics  as  they  are  published  from  time  to  time 
we  are  shocked  to  learn  that  our  prisons  are  filled.  We  are  astounded 
when  we  read  of  the  vast  sums  of  money  expended  in  punishing  lawless 
men  and  women  and  wayward  boys  and  girls,  who  are  considered 
enemies  to  society.  It  is  difficult  to  ascertain  definitely  how  much  this 
sum  is,  about  two  and  one  half  million  dollars  a  day.  One  man 
estimates  that  we  are  spending  ten  billion  dollars  a  year  in  the  punish- 
ment of  criminals ;  yet  each  year  crime  is  eating  deeper  into  the  vitals 
of  our  civilization. 

I  suggest  that  we  expend  some  of  that  vast  sum  of  money  to  better 
advantage  by  putting  forth  more  effort  to  stop  the  source  of  crime  by 
giving  a  little  more  attention  to  the  young.  For,  mind  you,  the  average 
age  of  the  criminal  in  the  United  States  today  is  under  twenty  one  years. 
That  is  something  which  challenges  our  attention.  Wie  are  not  spend- 
ing proportionately  the  amount  in  preventing  lawlessness  among  our 
youth  that  we  are  spending  in  punishing  those  who  become  entangled 
in  the  meshes  of  the  law.  Men  and  women  who  are  thus  arrested  and 
punished  are  not  all  bad.  Some  are  misled,  others  are  merely  un- 
fortunate. 

THE  POWER  AND  INFLUENCE  OF  MONEY 

To  understand  more  clearly  conditions  as  they  exist,  I  think  it  is 
well  to  consider  the  dominant  influences  of  society  today.  If  we  go 
back  through  history  we  find  that  at  one  time  the  world  was  governed 
by  the  spirit  of  might,  physical  force  was  the  aristocracy  of  the  age. 
And  naturally  men  chose  to  be  strong  in  physical  achievements.  Later 
that  period  gave  way  to  another  aristocracy,  or  ruling  power.  The 
sons  of  these  mighty  physical  men  became  the  rulers,  and  so  there 
developed  an  aristocracy  of  birth. 

You  and  I  are  witnessing  and  have  witnessed  the  decay  of  this 
aristocracy.  Thrones  are  crumbling,  their  power  is  diminished.  Titles 
can  be  purchased  by  money.  Supplanting  the  aristocracy  of  birth  has 
come  the  aristocracy  of  wealth.  Money,  it  is  said,  can  buy  anything. 
Unquestionably  one  of  the  great  factors  that  enter  into  the  lawlessness 
following  efforts  to  prohibit  the  sale  and  manufacture  of  liquor,  is  the 
great  amount  of  profit  that  men  find  in  that  illicit  traffic.  If  we  can 
prevent  the  bootlegger  from  filling  his  purse  we  can  better  enforce 
the  law  against  this  liquor  evil.  And  in  passing  let  me  urge  every 
Latter-day  Saint  throughout  the  world  to  uphold  the  law  against  the 
sale,  manufacture  and  transportation  of  intoxicants. 

Well,  we  are  in  this  financial  age.  We  need  to  realize  this  when  we 
examine  and  study  the  conditions  that  are  influencing  the  youth  of 
today.  Many  of  them  are  seeking  to  be  wealthy.  They  are  thinking 
that  success  lies  only  in  the  obtaining  of  the  dollar,  and  with  that 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


unwise  ideal  they  will  sacrifice  that  which  is  higher  and  better  than 
any  material  possession. 

Do  not  misunderstand  me,  ,1  would  not  underrate  the  value  of 
wealth.  I  am  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  the  second  great  command- 
ment was  to  replenish  and  subdue  the  earth.  I  realize  that  one  great 
purpose  of  life  is  to  subdue  matter,  and  I  rejoice  when  I  see  the  great 
reservoirs  filled  with  water  from  which  flows  that  element  which  will 
change  the  sagebrush  flat  into  a  waving  wheat  field,  and  that  is  wealth. 
I  do  not  take  second  place  to  anyone  in  the  realization  of  the  good 
which  this  can  do.  I  am  merely  emphasizing  the  thought  that  there  is 
a  nobler  ideal  in  life  than  the  accumulating  of  wealth. 

THE   ARISTOCRACY   OF  CHARACTER 

When  God  gave  us  the  command  to  subdue  matter,  he  meant 
us  to  use  the  power  derived  therefrom,  the  power  of  material  things,  to 
realize  something  which  is  higher  ;  and  that  is  character,  a  life  that  will 
merit  the  inspiration  of  God.  What  the  sunshine  is  to  the  field  and 
to  the  flowers  the  Holy  Spirit  is  to  the  life  of  man,  and  the  Holy 
Spirit  does  not  abide  with  base  characters.  He  will  not  dwell  in  unclean 
tabernacles. 

Well,  now,  my  thought  is  that  we  should  put  forth  every  effort 
to  supplant  the  aristocracy  of  wealth  with  the  aristocracy  of  character, 
and  awaken  in  the  minds  of  the  youth  a  realization  that  to  be  honest, 
to  be  dependable,  to  be  a  loyal  citizen  of  the  country,  to  be  true  to 
the  standards  of  the  Gospel,  are  the  noblest  ideals  of  life.  The  im- 
portant problem  is  now  to  instill  these  lofty  principles  into  the  minds 
of  young  people,  and  thereby  make  them  worthy  citizens.  I  am  glad 
to  see  evidences  in  our  own  country  that  men  are  now  moving  towards 
the  beginning  of  the  stream  of  humanity  to  correct  evils,  rather  than 
to  expend  so  much  money  on  those  who  have  drifted  down  the  stream 
of  society  and  have  become  contaminated  by  sin  and  hardened  in  law- 
lessness. 

CHILD  GUIDANCE 

On  Christmas  day,  1908,  President  Roosevelt  invited  200  child 
welfare  workers  in  all  parts  of  the  United  States  to  attend  a  conference 
on  dependent  children,  to  be  held  in  Washington,  Jan.  25,  26,  1909. 
Much  good  came  from  that.  Later  President  Wilson,  referring  to  the 
Children's  Bureau  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Labor,  expressed 
the  hope  that  there  might  be  set  up  "certain  irreducible  minimum 
standards  for  the  health,  education,  and  work  of  the  American  child." 
Recently  President  Hoover  said  that  the  opportunity  of  the  nation  lies 
in  the  health  and  protection  of  its  children,  and  in  accordance  with 
that  thought  he  has  appointed  an  investigating  committee  charged  with 
the  duty  of  getting  at  the  facts  of  the  physical  health,  mental  equipment, 
and  social  well-being  of  children  in  the  United  States.  Many  of  the 
leading  men  of  the  nation,  educators,  business  men,  doctors,  etc.,  are 
volunteering  their  services  to  a  nationwide  investigation  of  conditions, 
with  a  view  of  ascertaining  what  forces  are  operative  in  child  guidance. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


11 


DURING  LEISURE  HOURS 

I  cannot  refrain  from  calling  your  attention  to  what  Utah  is 
doing  in  regard  to  this  important  question.  Let  me  say  that  I  am  not 
now  thinking  so  much  of  the  child  when  he  is  in  the  home  under  the 
influence  of  parents,  neither  am  I  concerned  so  much  about  him  when 
he  is  in  the  public  school  under  the  influence  of  the  teacher,  although 
in  both  these  basic  environments  much  more  emphasis  might  be  placed 
upon  character  and  loyal  citizenship  than  we  are  placing  upon  it ;  I  am 
concerned  about  the  child  when  he  is  not  in  school,  about  what  he  is 
doing  after  school.  In  other  words,  it  is  time  for  the  nation  and  for 
states  to  look  after  the  youth  during  leisure  hours.  The  leisure  time 
of  youth  is  the  dangerous  time.  That  is  when  he  needs  the  training, 
and  yet  in  some  of  our  states  we  have  compulsory  education  up  to 
fourteen  years  of  age,  and  in  those  same  states  have  laws  prohibiting 
the  boy  from  working  until  he  is  sixteen.  There  you  find  a  two  years' 
period  in  which  the  boy  is  left  practically  to  go  his  way.  And  what 
is  his  way?  He  will  find  the  gang,  and  gangs  are  often  the  breeding 
grounds  of  bootleggers  and  organized  vice  squads. 

In  Chicago  alone  it  is  said  there  are  thirteen  hundred  and  thirty 
gangs,  young  boys  who  are  going  their  own  way,  and  whose  efforts 
should  be  guided,  no  matter  what  it  costs,  along  the  paths  of  better 
citizenship.  In  Utah  we  have  a  law  that  compels  the  young  man  and  the 
young  woman  to  be  in  school  until  he  or  she  is  eighteen  years  of  age. 
However,  it  is  one  thing  to  force  a  boy  into  school,  it  is  another  thing 
to  arouse  in  his  life  an  ideal,  or  a  desire  to  emulate  the  best  in  life. 

AN  EXAMPLE  WORTHY  OF  IMITATION 

In  one  of  our  school  districts  great  strides  have  been  taken  in 
guiding  and  taking  care  of  the  leisure  hours  of  youth,  particularly 
during  summer  vacations,  not  only  in  recreation  but  in  vocation.  A 
few  years  ago  the  Granite  School  District  inaugurated  a  plan  of 
guiding  these  students  in  the  proper  way  of  citizenship.  Brother 
Francis  Kirkham,  who  is  now  a  member  of  the  national  committee 
to  which  I  have  referred,  was  instrumental  in  introducing  this,  and 
Superintendent  D.  C.  Jensen  is  carrying  the  work  nobly  forward.  I 
am  mentioning  it  now  because  it  is  an  example  worthy  of  imitation  by 
all  educators  in  the  state  and  nation.  Summer  supervision  for  Junior 
and  Senior  high  school  students  was  inaugurated  in  1920,  when  1227 
students  were  enrolled.  In  the  summer  of  1921,  the  enrollment  in- 
creased to  1500.  In  1930  in  two  important  respects  the  policy  in  this 
district  was  changed  in  respect  to  compulsory  enrollment.  "School 
officials  do  not  now  require  enrollment  in  the  activities  of  the  summer, 
nor  do  they  make  a  formal  record  of  the  credits  earned  as  a  requisite 
to  unconditional  promotion.  Enrollment  is  wholly  voluntary  and  the 
joy  obtained  through  participation  is  the  only  reward  offered."  Not- 
withstanding they  give  no  credits,  make  no  compulsion,  last  year  there 
were  enrolled  4303  in  activities  as  follows : 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Music  Dancing  Playground 

Enrolled    Av.  Att.        Enrolled   A  v.  Att.       Enrolled  A  v.  Att. 
1st  Mo.  514        495  1287         910  1990  883 

2nd  Mo.  568        481  947         700  2145  1007 

3rd  Mo.  515         463  974         633  2447  1125 

Total  enrolled  in  the  three  activities — 4303. 

Total  school  population,  6-18  years  of  age,  Jordan  District — 6037. 

In  addition  to  those  instructed  by  music  teachers  employed  by  the  Board, 
102  students  were  in  regular  classes  under  teachers  employed  by  local  municipal 
or  civic  organizations. 

It  cost  the  children  nothing,  it  cost  the  parents  nothing.  The 
Jordan  District  carried  this  on  at  an  expense  that  is  merely  nominal, 
only  $1.33  per  pupil. 

But  the  teachers  did  not  stop  at  instruction  and  play  during  the 
recreation  period;  they  found  also  lucrative  employment  for  the 
students.  The  total  number  of  students  thus  placed  and  properly 
supervised  in  picking  beans,  thinning  beets,  delivering  groceries  and 
in  other  jobs,  was  476.  The  number  of  boys  contacted  111.  Total 
number  of  employers  cooperating  103.  Total  number  of  visits  for 
all  purposes  670. 

ITS  EFFECT  UPON  CITIZENSHIP 

Now  to  show  what  effect  this  will  have  upon  citizenship.  During 
the  school  year  there  was  a  family  in  that  district  that  refused  to  send 
the  boys  to  school.  The  truant  officer  visited  it  and  found  antagonism 
on  the  part  of  the  parents.  The  boys  were  not  interested  in  school. 
Later  the  father  was  out  of  work  and  when  the  truant  officer  went 
there  he  threatened  the  officer  by  saying,  "If  you  take  me  to  court 
there  will  be  a  serious  tragedy  in  this  end  of  the  county.  If  you 
want  to  keep  healthy,  leave  me  alone."  But  the  boys  were  compelled  to 
go  to  school.  !  The  father  however  had  to  be  arrested  and  the  law 
was  enforced. 

During  the  summer  vacation  this  same  officer  visited  that  home 
with  the  view  of  offering  employment  to  the  boys.  When  the  father 
met  him  at  the  door,  despondent,  still  bitter  and  defiant  of  the  law, 
he  said,  ''Well,  what  do  you  want  now?" 

"Have  you  any  employment?" 

"No." 

"Would  your  boys  like  to  have  a  job?" 

"You  mean  to  say  you  have  work  for  my  boys?  You  come  here 
with  a  job?" 

Those  boys  joined  the  working  squad,  went  out  and  picked  beans. 

The  father  apologized  and  said,  "I  have  misjudged  you." 

Those  boys  as  well  as  the  father  now  have  an  entirely  changed 
attitude  towards  the  law  and  towards  citizenship.  Success  to  that 
method.  Success  to  the  Utah  school  laws.  Success  to  Milton  Bennion 
who  is  recognized  in  the  United  States  as  a  pioneer  in  moral  teaching 
in  the  schools,  and  to  others  associated  with  him. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


13 


THE   MEANS  PROVIDED  BY   THE   CHURCH  ORGANIZATION 

But  now,  brethren  of  the  Church,  do  you  realize  that  we  have  here 
in  the  organization  of  the  Church  the  best  means  in  all  the  world  of 
training  the  youth?  Your  Deacon  Quorums,  what  are  they  but  op- 
portunities for  the  young  boys  to  meet  together  and  satisfy  that  spirit, 
of  brotherhood?  There  are  1041  quorums  in  which  over  30,000  boys 
ranging  from  12  to  15  years  of  age  meet  every  week  under  environ- 
ment which  is  faith-promoting  and  character  developing.  Similarly 
grouped  in  623  quorums  are  18,500  Teachers,  and  610  quorums  over 
23,000  Priests.  Bishop,  what  is  your  Priests'  quorum  but  an  oppor- 
tunity for  you  as  a  president  of  that  quorum  to  get  those  young  men 
around  you  as  your  bodyguard,  young  men  who  carve  the  social  atmos- 
phere of  the  ward,  and  whom  you  may  lead  in  paths  of  honor,  trust- 
worthiness and  faith?  Continuing  with  auxiliaries,  what  do  we  find? 
In  the  Primary  association  85,000  children  between  4  years  and  12 
in  the  case  of  boys,  and  4  years  and  14  in  the  case  of  girls,  all  most 
efficiently  supervised  and  instructed.  In  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  there  are 
42,813  youths,  and  in  the  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A.  42,042  young  women.  In  the 
Sunday  School  229,793  members  exclusive  of  officers  and  teachers. 

I  look  upon  the  organization  of  the  Church  as  the  greatest  oppor- 
tunity ever  given  to  man  for  the  proper  training  of  youth.  I  make 
the  statement  without  fear  of  successful  contradiction.  I  hope  the 
national  investigating  committee  will  look  into  the  opportunities  fur- 
nished by  this  Church.  I  hope  while  they  are  investigating  they  will 
consider  the  fact  that  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  outlined  this  organization, 
was  not  twenty-five  years  of  age,  unlearned  in  sociology,  unschooled  in 
economics ;  yet  after  one  hundred  years  that  which  he  gave  by  in- 
spiration of  God  stands  as  the  best  social  condition  that  the  world  has. 

NOT  ALL  BAD 

God  bless  the  officers  of  the  Priesthood  quorums  and  auxiliaries, 
that  they  may  go  forth  from  this  Conference  with  renewed  determina- 
tion to  reach  the  youth.  Young  people  are  not  bad,  they  just  need 
guidance,  that  is  all,  and  if  you  are  leaders  you  may  depend  upon  it  the 
boys  and  girls  of  the  Church  will  follow.  Even  these  criminals  in 
Chicago  are  not  all  bad.  In  the  race  riot  of  1919,  one  of  the  gangs, 
called  the  "Dirty  Dozen,"  started  out  one  day  to  harass  the  negroes- 
just  a  group  of  boys  misled.  One  of  the  boys  jerked  the  trolley  cord 
and  held  the  rope  while  the  others  jumped  into  the  car  to  create  a 
disturbance  and  throw  out  the  occupants.  While  he  was  holding  that 
rope  a  negro  woman  slashed  him  over  the  heart  with  a  razor.  Only 
one  of  the  gang  was  caught,  the  others  fled,  but  the  one  caught  said 
he  heard  "Shakey,"  the  boy  who  was  cut,  say  as  his  last  words,  "What 
will  mother  think  ?"  He  was  not  all  bad  when  his  dying  thought  was  a 
regret  that  he  had  wounded  his  mother. 

I  tell  you  the  time  has  come  for  the  nation,  for  the  state,  for  the 
home,  for  the  Church,  to  look  more  directly  and  particularly  after  the 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


boys  and  girls  and  train  them  in  the  way  they  should  go,  and  when 
they  are  old  few  will  depart  from  it. 

God  help  us  to  utilize  the  quorums  and  the  organizations  to  that 
end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters :  Weakness  is  given  to  make  a  man  humble  ; 
therefore,  I  feel  very  humble  and  dependent  upon  God  at  this  moment. 

The  Assyrians,  with  horses  and  chariots,  sought  to  apprehend 
Elisha.  "Fear  not,"  said  the  prophet,  "for  they  that  be  with  us  are  more 
than  they  that  be  with  them." 

I  believe  this  truth  applies  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Ever  since 
the  world  began  all  the  prophets  and  righteous  men  have  beheld  in 
vision  the  work  that  we  are  doing  and  they  have  rejoiced  in  this  glori- 
ous day. 

When  Napoleon  formed  his  armies  in  battle  array  in  Egypt, 
pointing  to  the  pyramids  he  said :  "Soldiers,  forty  centuries  look  down 
upon  you."  All  the  former  dispensations  merging  into  this  dispensa- 
tion are  looking  upon  us.  God  help  us  that  they  may  behold  in  our 
labors  richness  of  spirituality  and  steadiness  of  purpose. 

The  Prophet  Mormon  in  his  teachings  says  that  angels  have  a 
ministry : 

"Nay;  neither  have  angels  ceased  to  minister  unto  the  children  of  men. 

"For  behold,  they  are  subject  unto  him,  to  minister  according  to  the  word 
of  his  command,  showing  themselves  unto  them  of  strong  faith  and  a  firm 
mind  in  every  form  of  godliness. 

"And  the  office  of  their  ministry  is  to  call  men  unto  repentance,  and  to 
fulfil  and  to  do  the  work  of  the  covenants  of  the  Father,  which  he  hath  made 
unto  the  children  of  men,  to  prepare  the  way  among  the  children  of  men,  by 
declaring  the  word  of  Christ  unto  the  chosen  vessels  of  the  Lord,  that  they 
may  bear  testimony  of  him. 

"And  by  so  doing,  the  Lord  God  prepareth  the  way  that  the  residue  of  men 
may  have  faith  in  Christ,  that  the  Holy  Ghost  may  have  place  in  their  hearts, 
according  to  the  power  thereof ;  and  after  this  manner  bringeth  to  pass  the 
Father,  the  covenants  which  he  hath  made  unto  the  children  of  men"  (Moroni 
7:29-32). 

We  proclaim  in  humility,  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  Mormon 
foretold  the  mission  of  his  splendid  son,  Moroni,  and  that  Moroni 
did  appear  to  a  chosen  vessel  of  the  Lord,  even  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  who  with  magnificent  courage  and  firm  in  the  faith  of  the 
living  God  proclaimed  his  message  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  With 
angels  we  share  a  heavenly  gift,  even  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  for 
the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  angels  speak  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

We  are  told  in  holy  writ  that  angels  are  our  fellow  servants,  and 
the  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  that  we  are  laborers  together  with  God  in  the 
accomplishment  of  his  glorious  purposes.  Is  not  this  a  high  honsr? 
Is  not  this  a  sacred  responsibility?  Ought  not  this  knowledge  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


15 


inspire  us  with  the  loftiest  ideals  and  devoted  service  to  our  Heavenly 
Father? 

I  thank  God  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  this  gift  that 
distinguishes  us  from  people  described  by  a  great  writer  as  "the  wind- 
mill species."  Established  in  the  truth  by  this  personal  testimony,  we 
have  faith  in  our  leaders.  The  pilot  in  steering  his  vessel  with  its 
precious  cargo  of  lives  and  merchandise  would  imperil  both  by  steering 
according  to  weather  vanes.  But  with  the  compass  he  will  steer  his 
ship  through  dark  clouds  knowing  that  beyond  lies  the  haven  of  security 
and  safety. 

So  in  this  Church  we  are  not  guided  by  the  theories  of  certain 
men  which  "with  the  hour  begin  and  end,"  but  we  are  guided  by  the 
compass  of  divine  revelation  which  is  in  the  possession  of  the  leaders 
of  this  Church,  even  the  revelations  of  God,  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  God  pours  into  every  believing  heart,  and  as  we  follow  the 
direction  of  this  compass  we  shall  be  guided  safely  into  the  harbor  of 
eternal  life. 

Oh,  I  thank  God  that  we  are  following  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
We  desire  to  do  his  will.  We  love  him.  We  love  God  our  Heavenly 
Father.  I  bear  you  my  humble  testimony  that  God  is  with  this  people, 
that  he  is  leading  the  Church,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and 
Savior,  and  that  he  is  our  friend  if  we  will  keep  his  commandments. 
I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  because  I  know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WINTER 

I  need  scarcely  say  to  you  that  it  is  indeed  a  surprise  to  me  to 
be  called  upon  to  speak  to  this  vast  audience. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  go  forth  on  a  short  mission  during 
the  summer  and  visit  the  various  missions  of  Europe.  Many  years 
ago  I  received  two  patriarchal  blessings  without  any  solicitation  upon 
my  part,  and  in  each  of  those  blessings  a  promise  was  made  that  was 
quite  significant  in  the  wording.  I  have  often  wondered  how  it  could 
ever  be  realized.  In  each  case  the  promise  was  made  by  the  Patriarch 
that  I  should  "travel  from  nation  to  nation"  and  preach  the  Gospel. 
The  wording  which  is  practically  the  same  in  both  cases,  was  some- 
what peculiar;  it  was  not  that  I  should  go  from  place  to  place,  from 
county  to  county,  or  from  state  to  state,  but  that  I  should  travel 
"from  nation  to  nation,"  and  preach  the  Gospel. 

In  this  call  that  came  to  me  from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
along  with  Bishop  Wells,  those  two  patriarchal  blessings,  upon  that 
point,  were  literally  fulfilled ;  for  I  have  in  very  deed  traveled  from 
nation  to  nation  and  preached  the  Gospel. 

Bishop  Wells  and  I  have  visited  every  mission  in  Europe.  First 
of  all  we  had  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  all  the  mission  presidents 
of  Europe  in  the  city  of  Basel,  Switzerland.  We  were  with  them 
in  the  closing  sessions  of  their  conference.  The  final  session  was  a 
testimony  meeting  and  I  do  not  recall  having  attended  a  testimony 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


meeting  where  the  Spirit  of  God  was  poured  out  in  richer  abundance 
than  it  was  at  that  time. 

The  mission  presidents  of  Europe  are  a  splendid  lot  of  men  and 
are  doing  a  magnificent  work  for  the  proclamation  of  the  truth.  They 
are  led  and  supervised  by  President  John  A.  Widtsoe,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  has  a  tremendous  responsibility  upon  him,  which 
he  is  discharging  in  a  most  remarkable  manner.  He  is  undertaking 
to  systematize,  organize  and  unify  the  work  in  all  the  missions  abroad, 
so  that  the  most  effective  work  can  be  accomplished  and  the  truth 
be  made  known  in  the  most  efficient  manner. 

The  Elders  who  are  laboring  in  those  missions  are  as  fine  a  body 
of  men  as  can  be  found  anywhere  on  earth,  and  they  are  doing  a 
marvelous  work.  Notwithstanding  their  youth  and  inexperience  the 
Lord  has  touched  their  hearts.  His  Spirit  is  working  with  them  and 
they  are  presenting  the  message  of  the  Gospel  in  a  very  creditable 
manner. 

There  are  over  thirty  thousand  members  of  the  Church  in  the 
European  missions  and  they  are  being  organized  as  nearly  as  possible 
like  the  organizations  at  home.  The  priesthood  work  is  being  developed 
as  fast  as  possible.  The  auxiliary  work  is  showing  a  remarkable 
advance  over  the  years  gone  by.  The  sisters  are  doing  a  splendid 
work  in  this  particular.  The  wives  of  the  presidents  of  the  various 
missions  are  leading  out  and  cooperating  fully  with  their  husbands. 
Sister  Widtsoe  especially  is  distinguishing  herself  by  the  intelligent 
and  effective  work  she  is  doing  among  the  sisters.  The  Relief  Society, 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  and  the  Sunday  Schools,  are 
all  flourishing.  The  Primary  Association  has  not  yet  been  developed 
to  the  extent  of  the  other  organizations.  But  it  is  not  being  over- 
looked. These  auxiliaries  are  more  advanced  now  in  the  various 
missions  of  Europe  than  ever  before,  and  are  doing  a  splendid  work  in 
training  and  developing  the  people,  both  young  and  old.  Many  who  are 
not  of  the  Church  belong  to  these  associations,  and  through  the  in- 
fluence of  little  children  the  mothers  and  fathers  are  being  made  ac- 
quainted with  the  truth. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  feeling  of  the  world  toward  the 
Latter-day  Saints  has  changed  materially  since  I  last  visited  Europe. 
The  press  shows  a  marked  change  for  the  better  in  its  attitude  towards 
the  Church.  There  is  now  a  willingness  to  publish  articles  in  refutation 
of  the  slanders  that  may  be  put  forth  by  our  enemies  (for  the  devil  is 
not  dead  yet  and  the  Church  still  has  enemies  in  Europe),  and  the 
papers  generally  are  trying  to  be  fair  in  their  attitude  upon  the 
"Mormon"  question.  Moreover,  they  are  opening  their  columns  to  us. 
When  conferences  are  held  it  is  not  uncommon  for  the  newspapers  to 
send  representatives  to  such  gatherings,  and  they  usually  give  a  fair 
account  of  what  transpires. 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  experience  I  have  had  through  this 
opportunity  of  visiting  Europe.  The  work  of  the  various  missions  is 
progressing,  and  the  Gospel  is  being  taught  in  its  purity  and  power. 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WINTER 


17 


However,  there  is  one  serious  drawback  to  it  all,  and  that  is  the  in- 
difference which  prevails  among  the  people.  Since  the  war,  particularly, 
there  has  been  a  noticeable  change  in  the  religious  attitude  of  the 
people  of  Europe.  Where  they  formerly  believed  in  the  Bible,  in  the 
church,  in  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath,  and  in  those  things  that  tend 
to  build  up  and  uplift  humanity,  they  have  gradually  assumed  an  attitude 
of  indifference  to  all  these  things.  They  no  longer  have  much  use  for 
religion  or  for  the  churches.  That  spirit  is  growing,  and  I  do  not 
know  just  how  we  are  going  to  meet  it.  It  is  one  of  the  problems  of 
missionary  work  today.  Formerly  you  could  approach  the  people  with 
the  Bible  and  sustain  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  from  the  "good  book." 
But  today  too  many  pay  little  or  no  attention  to  the  Bible.  The  ap- 
proach therefore  must  be  different.  Our  missionary  methods  and 
efforts  will  have  to  be  changed  somewhat  in  order  to  meet  the  changed 
situation.  President  Widtsoe  is  working  along  these  lines,  devoting 
a  great  deal  of  thought,  time  and  energy  to  the  development  of  other 
methods  so  as  to  meet  the  new  conditions  and  get  the  people  interested 
in  the  Gospel  message. 

I  want  to  say  in  closing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  am  very 
happy  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is  the  dearest  thing  on  earth  to 
me.  It  is  fifty  years  this  month  since  I  was  baptized  into  the  Church ; 
and  out  of  that  fifty  years  of  experience  in  the  Church  I  can  testify  to 
you  today  that  I  know  this  to  be  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
And  I  know  too  that  the  Church  is  led  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord. 
The  Lord  has  not  forsaken  it.  He  has  not  gone  on  a  journey.  He  is 
guiding  and  directing  the  affairs  of  this  Church.  He  is  inspiring  the 
leaders  of  the  Church.  For  forty  odd  years  I  have  been  in  close 
contact  with  them.  I  have  seen  their,  lives,  and  I  am  here  to  testify  to 
you  that  in  guiding  the  affairs  of  this  Church  they  have  been  led  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  Wie  need  have  no  fears  as  to  the  future 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  it  is  his  work  and  will  triumph  and  I 
bear  testimony  to  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
St.  Paul  said: 

"For  though  I  preach  the  Gospel,  I  have  nothing  to  glory  of  :  for  necessity 
is  laid  upon  me;  yea,  woe  is  unto  me,  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel! 

"For  if  I  do  this  thing  willingly,  I  have  a  reward :  but  if  against  my  will, 
a  dispensation  of  the  gospel  is  committed  unto  me." 

He  lea  ves  rather  unsaid  what  he  means  by  that  significant  remark : 
"If  I  preach  not  the  gospel,  then  a  dispensation  of  the  gospel  is  com- 
mitted unto  me." 

But  undoubtedly  he  implies  that  a  very  serious  consequence  would 
rest  upon  him  if  he  failed  in  this  mission  that  had  been  granted  unto  him. 
I  think  very  likely  the  contemplation  of  another  prophet,  who  had 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


also  been  commissioned  of  the  Lord  to  carry  a  message  unto  Israel  in 
Babylon,  will  throw  some  light  upon  the  subject. 

Some  time  after  the  Babylonian  captivity  began  the  Lord  called 
Ezekiel  and  sent  him  to  Babylon  to  convey  to  Israel  his  mind  and  will. 
So  Ezekiel  departed  on  that  mission.  When  he  arrived  in  Babylon 
he  seemed  loath  to  undertake  the  responsibility.  We  are  told  that  he 
sat  by  the  river  that  ran  through  the  city,  doubtless  in  deep  contempla- 
tion of  the  work  before  him.  The  Lord,  it  would  appear,  felt  that 
he  was  somewhat  delinquent  in  discharging  the  tremendous  responsi- 
bility given  him,  so  he  spoke  unto  the  prophet  to  this  effect: 

"Son  of  man,  I  have  placed  thee  upon  the  watchtower  and  given  thee 
my  word  unto  Israel." 

"When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  Thou  shalt  surely  die;  and  thou  givest 
him  not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to 
save  his  life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  his  blood 
mill  I  require  at  thine  hand. 

"Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked  man,  and  he  turn  not  from  his  wickedness, 
nor  from  his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  thou  hast  delivered 
thy  soul." 

I  think  that  in  all  probability  this  quotation  from  Ezekiel  helps 
us  to  explain  in  something  like  fulness  the  words  of  Paul  upon  the 
subject  of  responsibility  of  those  who  receive  commission  and  a  mission 
from  the  Lord  to  the  world. 

For  the  few  minutes  that  I  address  you  I  would  like  to  make  a 
somewhat  wider  application  of  this  same  principle  that  we  see  operating 
here  in  the  case  of  individual  prophets.  Let  us  remember  that  re- 
sponsibility can  rest  upon  a  people,  a  nation,  or  a  church  in  the  same 
manner  that  it  can  rest  upon  an  individual.  Israel  demonstrates  the 
truth  of  that  statement.  I  mean' the  experience  of  the  Hebrew  nation; 
which  people,  after  God  had  delivered  them  from  Egypt,  were  called 
to  be  his  witness  in  the  earth — witness  of  his  being  and  the  kind  of 
being  he  was,  his  character,  his  attributes;  and  also  to  be  witness  of 
his  law  which  he  revealed  to  them  through  Moses.  The  conditions 
making  them  his  witness  to  the  world  were  such  that  in  any  event 
they  would  be  his  witnesses.  If  by  observing  his  law,  keeping  his  com 
mandments,  and  honoring  him,  then  by  a  realization  of  the  highest 
blessings  that  God  could  confer  upon  a  people;  they  would  be  strength- 
ened and  upheld  as  a  people  especially  blessed  of  the  Lord.  In  the 
event  of  their  failure  to  live  up  to  the  requirements  of  his  law,  and 
do  honor  to  him,  then  such  calamities  would  fall  upon  them  as  would 
testify  of  God's  displeasure  upon  those  who  ignore  his  laws  and 
commandments.  And  the  Hebrew  nation  under  these  conditions  has 
been  a  witness  for  God,  perhaps  the  most  remarkable  miracle  in  all 
history.  I  remember  that  Bishop  Joseph  Lightfoot,  a  Christian  Bible 
scholar  of  high  standing  of  the  last  century,  declared  that  men  could 
disbelieve  every  other  miracle  in  the  Bible  and  yet  the  Hebrew  nation 
would  be  the  outstanding  miracle  of  all  miracles  that  are  mentioned. 
The  experiences  through  which  they  had  passed;  and  they,  we  know, 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS  19 

have  chiefly  been  witnesses  of  God  through  the  things  which  they 
suffered  because  of  their  disobedience  unto  the  Lord. 

The  full  passage  by  Bishop  Lightfoot  is  as  follows: 

"You  may  question,  if  you  will,  every  single  prophecy  in  the  Old  Testament, 
but  the  whole  history  of  the  Jews  is  one  continuous  prophecy  more  distinct 
and  articulate  than  all.  You  may  deny,  if  you  will,  every  successive  miracle 
which  is  recorded  therein;  but  again,  the  history  of  the  Jews  is  from  first 
to  last  one  stupendous  miracle,  more  wonderful  and  convincing  than  all." 
{Quarterly  Review,  April,  1886). 

But  I  want  to  apply  this  principle,  introduced  by  Paul's  statement, 
to  a  Church,  more  especially  to  our  Church,  in  which  the  ends  of  the 
earth  are  met,  being  the  Church  of  the  new  dispensation,  the  Dispensa- 
tion of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  which  shall  include  within  it  all  previous 
dispensations,  for  in  it  shall  be  realized  that  refreshing  that  was  prom- 
ised by  St.  Peter  when  he  said,  the  heavens  would  receive  and  retain 
Jesus  Christ  until  the  times  of  refreshing  should  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord,  and  Jesus  Christ  should  be  again  revealed  from 
heaven,  made  known  to  the  people ;  and  all  things  spoken  by  the  mouths 
of  the  prophets  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  should  be  gathered 
together  into  one,  and  be  established  in  this  great  forth-coming  dis- 
pensation (Acts  3:19-22). 

This  is  the  Church  we  are  supremely  interested  in,  this  Church 
of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  God  has  committed  to 
this  Church  his  Gospel,  his  law.  He  has  commissioned  men  and  given 
unto  the  Church  its  organization  wherein  is  his  divine  authority.  He 
has  commissioned  this  Church  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  nation 
and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people.  And  in  a  remarkable  way  he  has 
made  this  Church  the  means  through  which  he  will  instruct  the  world 
and  administer  to  all  men  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  By  reason 
of-  this  large  commission  this  Church  extends  its  interests  from  the 
first  dispensation  to  this  last  dispensation,  from  Adam  until  the  present 
time.  God  has  made  it  all  inclusive.  It  therefore  becomes  the  official 
exponent  of  the  whole  scheme  of  life  and  salvation  that  God  has  de- 
signed for  the  world,  the  advocacy  of  the  truth;  and  the  defense 
especially  of  God's  revealed  truth,  is  lodged  with  this  organization  to- 
gether with  the  tremendous  responsibility  that  goes  with  this  divine 
commission. 

Moreover,  the  Lord  has  given  special  instruction  for  our  guidance, 
the  guidance  of  his  priesthood — how  we  may  acquit  ourselves  and 
become  efficiently  instructed  and  prepared  to  discharge  these  high  re- 
sponsibilities.   I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  that. 

Ninety-eight  years  ago  a  group  of  elders  had  assembled  in  Kirt- 
land — they  were  waiting  the  coming  on  of  a  conference  at  which  they 
were  expected  to  receive  organization  and  instructions  to  go  out  with 
the  message  of  the  Lord  to  the  people  in  the  country  round  about. 
Most  of  them  had  come  in  from  missions.  .While  thus  in  waiting 
they  inquired  of  the  Prophet  for  the  word  of  the  Lord  respecting  them 
and  their  future  labors.    It  was  on  this  occasion  that  the  Lord  gave 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


what  to  me  is  one  of  the  most  wonderful,  as  it  is  also  one  of  the  most 
beautiful,  of  our  revelations.  It  seems  that  the  Prophet  was  inclined 
to  regard  it  somewhat  in  this  light,  for  he  named  it  "The  Olive  Leaf," 
because  it  was  intended,  in  certain  parts  of  it,  to  make  reconciliation 
of  differences  that  had  sprung  up  between  the  elders  down  at  Inde- 
pendence, Missouri,  and  the  elders  of  the  Church  in  Kirtland.  Coming 
to  that  part  of  it  which  was  to  be  instruction  to  this  group  of  Elders, 
the  Lord  said  to  them: 

"I  give  unto  you  a  commandment  that  ye  shall  continue  in  prayer  and 
fasting  from  this  time  forth. 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment  that  you  shall  teach  one  another 
in  the  doctrine  of  the  kingdom. 

"Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall  attend  you,  that  you  may  be  instructed 
more  perfectly  in  theory — " 

They  did  not  disregard  theory.  Some  people  are  disposed  to  sneer 
at  theoretical  things,  but  the  Lord  required  that  these  Elders  should 
be  instructed  more  perfectly  in  theory — 

" — in  principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of  the  gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain 
unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are  expedient  for  you  to  understand. 

"Of  things  both  in  heaven  and  in  the  earth,  and  under  the  earth;  things 
which  have  been,  things  which  are,  things  which  must  shortly  come  to  pass ; 
things  which  are  at  home,  things  which  are  abroad ;  the  wars  and  the  perplexities 
of  the  nations,  and  the  judgments  which  are  on  the  land;  and  a  knowledge 
also  of  countries  and  of  kingdoms — " 

And  now  observe  this,  I  pray  you.  First,  hold  in  your  conscious- 
ness the  width  and  length  and  height  and  depth  of  this  great  field  of 
knowledge  in  relation  to  things  of  the  past  and  the  future ;  things  to 
come;  things  of  a  national  character;  things  in  the  earth  itself,  and 
under  the  earth.  It  seems  to  me  that  an  effort  was  made  to  circum- 
scribe the  whole  field  of  knowledge,  human  and  divine;  historical 
and  philosophical.  It  is  a  tremendous  designation  of  the  field  to  be 
scored  for  knowledge  of  the  things  that  are.  And  now,  as  I  was 
about  to  say,  mark  the  purpose  of  the  instruction,  for  the  paragraph 
continues : 

"That  ye  may  be  prepared  in  all  things  when  I  shall  send  you  again  to 
magnify  the  calling  whereunto  I  have  called  you,  and  the  mission  with  which 
I  have  commissioned  you." 

And  then  later,  by  the  way,  I  ought  not  to  omit  that,  the  Lord  said : 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  friends,  call  your  solemn  assembly,  as  I  have 
commanded  you. 

"And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another  words 
of  wisdom ;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom ;  seek  learning 
even  by  study  and  also  by  faith." 

You  will  observe  that  there  are  two  sources  mentioned  here  from 
which  men  may  obtain  learning  and  wisdom.  One  is  through  access 
to  the  treasures  of  knowledge  by  faith;  but  as  all  do  not  have  that 
gift  of  obtaining  knowledge  by  faith,  then  "seek  ye  wisdom  from  the 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS  ,  21 


best  books;"  and  of  course  there  can  be  no  possible  objection  to  men 
thus  instructed  of  the  Lord  obtaining  wisdom  both  by  faith  and  also 
by  research  in  experimentation,  and  by  becoming  familiar  with  the 
great  truths  that  are  taught  in  the  best  books. 

Well,  that  I  think  discloses  somewhat  the  responsibility  of  the 
Church  to  become  efficient  as  teachers  of  those  truths  which  God  has 
revealed,  and  also  as  to  all  truth,  because  I  recognize  the  fact  that  the 
Lord  from  time  to  time  has  granted  through  his  prophets,  especially, 
great  flashes  of  light  that  men  call  philosophical  truth,  as  well  as  moral 
and  spiritual  truth  and  admonition.  And  I  regard  it  the  duty  of  the 
Church  to  represent  and  uphold  and  sustain  in  the  exercise  of  the 
mission  given  to  her  of  God  the  so-called  philosophical  truths  of  the 
revelations  of  God,  as  well  as  the  important  doctrinal  truth  and  or- 
dinances of  the  Gospel  that  he  has  restored.  It  is  binding  upon  the 
Church,  from  my  viewpoint,  that  she  shall  weave  into  beautiful  har- 
mony, as  I  believe  it  can  be  woven,  the  truth  that  God  has  revealed, 
and  also  those  undoubted  truths  which  men,  and  especially  in  this 
wonderful  age,  have  been  developing  by  their  profound  research  and 
experimentations.  A  new  world  has  opened  to  the  knowledge  of  men 
in  these  last  thirty  years.  It  is  called  in  their  literature  upon  the 
subject,  a  New  Renaissance,  and  that  renaissance  of  knowledge  has 
brought  to  the  scientific  and  intellectual  world  and  the  philosophical 
world  new  conceptions  in  relation  to  the  structure  of  the  universe, 
and  also  its  immensity,  its  almost  unbelievable  greatness.  For  now, 
whereas  in  past  times  we  have  spoken  of  the  "solar  system,"  we  speak 
of  that  galaxy  which  we  regard  as  constituting  our  universe — con- 
sisting of  more  than  one  billion  blazing  suns,  and  many  thoughtful 
writers  are  ready  to  concede  the  possibility  at  least  of  these  suns  being 
the  centers  of  opaque,  circling  planets,  as  is  the  case  with  our  own 
sun,  for  our  sun  is  like  the  other  billions  of  suns  that  make  up  the 
galaxy.  Now  they  burn  holes  into  space  by  improved  telescopes, 
supplemented  by  the  great  "photographic  eye  of  science,"  the  photo- 
graph-telescope, until  a  multiplicity  of  galaxies  of  blazing  suns  equal 
perhaps  to  our  own  galaxy,  are  to  be  found  out  in  the  depths  of  space, 
beyond  the  galaxy  to  which  our  solar  system  belongs. 

And  so  this  larger  view  of  the  universe,  together  with  other  dis- 
coveries in  geology,  the  science  of  earth  structure;  and  biology,  the 
science  of  life ;  and  in  chemistry  as  well  as  in  astronomy,- — the  ideas 
of  men  in  the  last  thirty  years  have  undergone  a  complete  revolution 
you  may  say. 

I  am  sorry  to  call  attention  to  the  fact,  but  I  must  needs  do  so, 
that  while  there  are  a  few  exceptions  to  the  notion  among  scientific 
men,  it  is  safe  to  say  that  the  trend  of  intellectual  thought  and  scien- 
tific investigation  and  deduction  holds  out  the  idea  of  the  coming  of  a 
dead  universe,  and  also  it  denies — this  trend  of  thought — even  the 
possibility  or  the  desirability  of  individual  immortality,  even  the  im- 
mortality of  the  race.  Of  course  if  the  universe  is  headed  towards  a 
complete  universal  deadness,  all  forms  of  life  go  into  that  universe; 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  that  is  the  trend,  I  wish  to  say,  of  scientific  thought.  Others, 
however,  and  some  of  them  the  most  prominent  in  the  intellectual  life 
of  our  times,  hold  to  the  fact  that  as  these  blazing  suns  and  many  worlds 
that  may  attend  upon  them  are  wasting  away,  matter  being  annihilated, 
— contrary  to  the  old  philosophy — matter  being  annihilated,  radiant 
energy  is  being  developed  in  its  stead.  There  are  those  who  believe 
that  radiant  energy  reaches  a  point  at  which  it  undergoes  reconstruc- 
tion, and  that  there  is  a  building  up  of  the  universe,  as  well  as  a 
tearing  down  of  it ;  but  that  is  not  the  trend  of  scientific  thought. 

Now,  in  relation  to  these  things,  I  can  only  say  at  this  time  that 
the  prophet  of  God  of  this  New  Dispensation  has  announced  this 
great  principle  as  to  the  eternity  of  the  universe,  the  immortality 
of  individual  men,  as  well  as  of  races— he  has  given  the  world  to 
understand  through  our  Book  of  Mormon  that  there  is  a  God  in  heaven 
who  has  created  all  things,  things  to  act  and  things  to  be  acted  upon ; 
and  all  the  researches  of  the  scientists  bring  us  at  last  only  to  those 
two  things  the  positive  and  negative,  out  of  which  the  unexhaustive 
matter  of  the  space  depths  is  brought  into  tangible  being  and  reality, 
and  the  great  drama  of  creation  goes  on  though  there  be  disintegration 
of  worlds  and  integration  of  them. 

And  so  the  Lord  has  made  known  unto  his  Church  these  great 
truths.  It  is  my  belief  that  the  Church  is  the  custodian  of  those  great 
philosophical  and  scientific  truths,  and  it  is  for  us  to  be  champions  of 
those  things  and  to  harmonize  them  with  the  truths  which  men  have 
discovered,  that  the  truths  of  God  may  be  vindicated. 

This  is  our  new  field  of  labor,  you  may  say,  at  the  commencement 
of  this  second  century  of  the  existence  of  the  Church.  I  believe  it 
is  up  to  us  to  fortify  the  youth  of  our  people  and  our  missionaries  that 
they  shall  go  out  into  the  world  with  a  knowledge  of  these  things 
that  are  in  fact  included  in  that  great  commandment  which  God  gave 
to  his  servant  ninety-eight  years  ago,  that  they  may  go  out  efficient 
to  meet  the  world  in  respect  to  all  the  truths  that  God  has  revealed, 
and  the  reasonable  implications  that  grow  out  of  them. 

I  pray  you  do  not  regard  this  as  any  attempt  on  my  part  to  make 
any  adequate  statement  of  the  development  of  the  new  knowledge  of 
the  world  of  the  last  thirty  years.  It  is  not  so.  I  merely  call  your 
attention  to  this  vast  new  field  in  which  we  ought  to  put  our  feet 
as  far  forward  as  any  other  people  in  the  world,  because  we  can  do  it 
with  the  assurance  that  God  has  revealed  great  truths  in  relation  to 
these  matters.  So  regard  this,  my  brethren,  as  merely  a  mentioning 
of  this  broad  field  of  which  the  ministry  of  the  Church  and  the  educa- 
tional department  of  the  Church  should  take  notice. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  we  men  of  the  second  century  in  the 
Church.  May  we  discharge  our  duties  and  responsibilities  as  faithfully 
and  as  successfully  as  did  the  men  of  the  first  century.  If  we  do  that 
we  shall  stand  without  reproach,  a  light  given  of  God  to  the  world. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  that  end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


23 


The  hymn,  '"How  Firm  a  Foundation,  Ye  Saints  of  the  Lord," 
was  sung  by  the  congregation,  after  which  the  closing  prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  Leonard  G.  Ball,  President  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake, 
and  the  Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

At  2  o'clock  the  second  session  of  the  Conference  was  opened 
by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  announcing  that  the  congregation  would 
sing  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph  S.  Hansen,  President  of  the 
Gunnison  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  have  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  in  what  I  shall  say  this  afternoon. 

Very  timely  counsel  and  instruction  were  given  in  the  meeting 
this  morning.  I  was  pleased  that  our  attention  was  called  to  the  duties 
of  parents  and  teachers  and  their  responsibility  in  looking  after  the 
interests  of  our  children  and  the  youth  of  Israel  and  in  imparting 
proper  instruction  while  they  are  young  so  that  they  may  not  depart 
from  it. 

I  believe  fully  that  we  are  living  in  the  last  days;  that  we  are 
approaching  very  rapidly  the  advent  of  the  Son  of  God  on  the  earth. 
President  Grant  made  reference  to  this  in  his  remarks  this  morning. 

AN  EXAMPLE  IN  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

This  afternoon  I  would  like,  if  I  may  be  led  to  do  so,  to  say  a 
few  words  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  way  of  counsel  and  perhaps 
admonition.  We  have  been  informed  that  the  world  is  full  of  lawless- 
ness, and  especially  is  this  the  case  in  our  own  country  which  is  dedicated 
as  a  land  of  liberty.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  as  a  city  set  on  a  hill 
that  cannot  be  hid,  and  like  the  candle  that  gives  light  to  all  who  are 
in  the  house.  It  is  our  duty  to  let  our  light  shine  as  an  example  in 
righteousness,  not  only  to  the  people  among  whom  we  live,  but  to  the 
peoples  of  the  whole  earth.  It  is  our  duty  to  be  law-abiding.  We  are 
commanded  by  the  Lord  to  keep  his  commandments  and  also  to  be 
obedient  to  the  laws  of  the  land.  Having  the  light  of  the  Gospel  as 
it  has  been  revealed,  we  are  under  obligation  to  set  examples  in 
righteousness  before  all  men.  We  have  been  endowed  with  power  from 
on  high.  We  have  been  blessed  with  direct  revelation  through  our 
prophets.    We  know  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  entitled  to 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


inspiration,  and  that  they  receive  it.  We  know  that  we  have  been 
guided  by  revelation  and  commandment  from  the  Lord.  With  this 
light  and  knowledge  before  us,  there  is  no  place  in  the  Church  for  the 
disobedient  and  the  rebellious,  the  violator  of  the  law.  There  is  no 
place  for  those  who  do  not  have  in  their  hearts  a  love  of  the  truth 
and  who  remain  unrepentant.  When  I  say  this  I  do  not  mean  to 
convey  the  thought  that  we  have  no  sympathy  for  the  lawbreaker  and  no 
love  for  the  unrepentant.  It  is  our  commission  to  go  into  all  the 
world  and  cry  repentance  and  endeavor  to  save  the  sinner;  but  if  men 
will  not  repent  who  are  in  the  Church,  and  if  they  will  not  be  obedient 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Church,  then  they  are  not  entitled  to  member- 
ship. It  is  the  duty  of  every  member  to  be  repentant,  to  be  humble, 
to  be  willing  to  receive  counsel,  and  to  walk  in  the  light  as  it  has  been 
revealed  to  us. 

LAW-ABIDING  CITIZENS 

Today  many  of  the  laws  on  our  statutes  are  ridiculed.  Some  of 
the  people  stand  in  opposition  to  them  because  they  have  been  misled 
in  believing  that  mistakes  have  been  made.  Others  are  standing  in 
opposition  to  the  law  because  they  have  malicious  and  evil  hearts. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  quite  generally  law-abiding  citizens,  both 
of  the  nation  and  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  should  be  such,  for  we 
are  under  covenant  to  walk  in  the  light  of  the  truth,  to  be  obedient  to 
the  statutes  and  the  judgments  which  have  been  given  us  for  our 
guidance  both  civilly  and  spiritually  as  members  of  the  Church. 

IN  A  DAY  OF  WICKEDNESS 

We  are  living  in  a  day  of  wickedness.  I  do  not  believe,  as  some 
seem  to  think,  that  the  world  is  growing  better.  I  cannot  make  that 
thought  appear  consistent  with  the  word  of  the  Lord,  for  he  has 
emphatically  said  otherwise.  If  the  world  is  becoming  more  righteous, 
then  the  coming  of  the  Lord  will  of  necessity  have  to  be  postponed, 
because  he  is  going  to  come  in  the  day  of  wickedness,  in  the  day  of 
judgment,  and  when  vengeance  against  the  ungodly  is  in  his  heart. 
At  that  time  he  will  cleanse  the  earth  of  its  unrighteousness,  and  we 
are  told  there  will  be  "few  men  left." 

Let  me  read  one  or  two  passages  of  scripture  which  bear  upon 
this  point.  These  sayings  have  been  given  us  for  our  guidance  and 
for  the  guidance  of  the  whole  world  if  they  will  receive  them.  The 
Lord  says  in  a  revelation  given  shortly  after  the  organization  of  the 
Church : 

"And  ye  are  called  to  bring  to  pass  the  gathering  of  mine  elect ;  for  mine 
elect  hear  my  voice  and  harden  not  their  hearts ; 

"Wherefore  the  decree  hath  gone  forth  from  the  Father  that  they  shall  be 
gathered  in  unto  one  place  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  to  prepare  their  hearts  and 
be  prepared  in  all  things  against  the  day  when  tribulation  and  desolation  are 
sent  forth  upon  the  wicked. 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh  and  the  day  soon  at  hand  when  the  earth  is  ripe;  and 
all  the  proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble;  and  I  will  burn 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  25 


them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  wickedness  shall  not  be  upon  the  earth ; 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  that  which  was  spoken  by  mine  apostles  must 
be  fulfilled ;  for  as  they  spoke  so  shall  it  come  to  pass ; 

"For  I  will  reveal  myself  from  heaven  with  power  and  great  glory,  with 
all  the  hosts  thereof,  and  dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on  earth  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  wicked  shall  not  stand." 

Again  in  another  revelation  the  Lord  said : 

"Behold,  I,  the  Lord,  utter  my  voice,  and  it  shall  be  obeyed. 

"Wherefore,  verily  I  say,  let  the  wicked  take  heed,  and  let  the  rebellious 
fear  and  tremble;  and  let  the  unbelieving  hold  their  lips,  for  the  day  of  wrath 
shall  come  upon  them  as  a  whirlwind,  and  all  flesh  shall  know  that  I  am  God. 

"And  he  that  seeketh  signs  shall  see  signs,  but  not  unto  salvation." 

So  the  Lord  is  going  to  come  when  the  cup  of  iniquity  is  full. 
He  has  said : 

"Mine  indignation  is  soon  to  be  poured  out  without  measure  upon  the 
nations ;  and  this  will  I  do  when  the  cup  of  their  iniquity  is  full." 

Here  is  the  testimony  of  the  Lord  to  Enoch  as  it  is  given  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price: 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  As  I  live,  even  so  will  I  come  in  the 
last  days,  in  the  days  of  wickedness  and  vengeance,  to  fulfil  the  oath  which 
I  have  made  unto  you  concerning  the  children  of  Noah. 

"And  the  day  shall  come  that  the  earth  shall  rest,  but  before  that  day  the 
heavens  shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil  of  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth ;  and 
the  heavens  shall  shake,  and  also  the  earth;  and  great  tribulations  shall  be 
among  the  children  of  men,  but  my  people  will  I  preserve." 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  WATCHMEN  UPON  THE  TOWERS 

Brother  B.  H.  Roberts,  this  morning,  called  our  attention  to  the 
fact  that  we  are  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Israel.  It  is  our  duty 
to  warn,  to  admonish,  to  teach,  in  righteousness,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  all  peoples.  I  think  we  are  under  responsibility  to  warn  the  world 
and  call  the  attention  of  the  people  to  these  predictions  and  cry  among 
them  repentance,  and  ask  them  to  repent,  that  they  too  may  receive 
the  Gospel  and  thus  escape  from  these  calamities  and  tribulations  which 
even  now  are  being  poured  out  upon  the  nations  of  the  earth.  The 
Lord  has  promised  us  that  Zion  may  escape  from  this  destruction  and 
trouble  if  she  will  hearken  to  his  commandments  and  walk  in  his 
statutes.  But  Zion  will  not  escape  unless  she  is  willing  to  walk  in 
humility  and  obedience.  If  we  refuse  to  hearken  to  counsel,  if  we 
refuse  to  observe  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  and  to  live  in  humility,  faith  and 
love,  then  we  will  be  visited  "with  sore  affliction,  with  pestilence,  with 
plague,  with  sword,  with  vengeance,  with  devouring  fire."  Therefore, 
I  feel  it  my  duty  to  cry  repentance  and  to  warn  the  people. 

OUR   DUTY   ON   THE   SABBATH  DAY 

I  pray  that  these  things  may  pass  us  by,  but  I  fear  they  will  not 
unless  there  is  sincere  repentance  in  Israel.  As  I  travel  up  and  down 
through  the  stakes  of  Zion,  I  discover  that  there  are  those  among  the 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Latter-day  Saints  who  are  violators  of  the  Sabbath  day.  Now.  the 
breaking  of  this  great  law  is  not  confined  to  those  who  are  not  of  us ; 
but  in  our  own  communities  the  Sabbath  day  is  set  aside  as  a  day  of 
pleasure  rather  than  a  day  for  worshiping  the  Lord  and  for  reflection 
and  study  concerning  the  things  which  pertain  to  eternal  life.  I  think 
it  is  deplorable  and  the  Lord  will  not  hold  us  guiltless. 

Latter-day  Saints  have  no  business,  with  the  Gospel  before  us, 
and  the  direct  commandments  we  have  received  from  the  Lord,  to  go 
to  the  picture  shows  on  Sunday.  Sunday  is  our  Sabbath.  The  Lord 
has  set  it  apart  as  such  and  has  commanded  us  to  observe  it  faithfully. 
We  have  no  right  to  go  to  pleasure  resorts  on  that  day.  We  have  no 
business  at  the  baseball  games,  and  other  places  of  amusement  on  this, 
the  Lord's  day ;  but  should  be  found  inside  our  church  buildings  which 
have  been  dedicated  for  the  worship  of  the  Lord  our  God.  We  should 
go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  there  confess  our  sins,  partake  of 
the  sacrament  and  receive  instruction  in  praise  and  thanksgiving, 
rejoicing  in  the  truth.  This  is  our  duty  on  the  Sabbath  day,  and  we 
should  be  engaged  in  no  other  thing,  for  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto 
us  in  which  to  rest  from  our  labors  and  to  pay  our  devotions  to  the 
Most  High. 

NEED   OF  REPENTANCE 

We  have  been  warned  many  times,  and  I  say,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  there  is  room  for  repentance  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  had  better  repent  or  many  of  us  will  find  ourselves  caught  in  the 
snares  and  in  the  net.  The  Lord  has  said  that  when  he  comes  those 
who  will  not  hearken  to  the  voice  of  his  servants,  and  more  especially 
to  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  shall  be  cut  off  from  among 
the  people.  There  will  be  many  among  those  in  Zion  and  who  belong 
to  the  Church,  who  shall  be  called  upon  to  mourn  and  to  lament,  as 
did  the  Nephites  of  old,  unless  we  turn  with  full  purpose,  to  the 
worship  of  the  Lord  and  the  keeping  of  his  commandments.  That 
we  may  tum  unto  the  Lord  and  remember  the  covenants  we  have 
made  with  him  and  thus  be  worthy  in  the  day  of  his  coming,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  same  spirit 
that  has  actuated  the  speakers  at  the  morning  session,  and  so  far  this 
'afternoon,  may  be  given  to  me.  My  only  desire  is  to  bear  witness  to 
the  truth,  to  assist  in  its  establishment  in  the  world,  and  to  forward 
the  work  of  the  Church,  and  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  My  desire  is  to  see  righteousness  established 
among  men  and  selfishness  and  wickedness  done  away. 

I  realize  very  greatly  how  dependent  I  am,  as  an  individual,  upon 
the  Lord  to  assist  me  and  to  keep  me  in  the  path  of  duty  and  from 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


27 


going  off  either  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  because  of  the  perplexing 
conditions  that  exist  and  the  controversies  that  there  are  among  men. 
And,  if  it  be  hard  to  live  individually  in  keeping  with  the  truth,  so  is 
it  hard  also  to  be  sure  always  that  a  person  is  teaching  the  truth. 

When  Jesus  Christ  stood  before  Pilate  he  was  asked  whether  he  be 
a  king,  and  he  said : 

"My  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world :  if  my  kingdom  were  of  this  world, 
then  would  my  servants  fight,  that  I  should  not  be  delivered  unto  the  Jews; 
but  now  is  my  kingdom  not  from  hence. 

"Pilate  therefore  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  a  king,  then?  Jesus  answered, 
Thou  sayest  that  I  am  a  king.  To  this  end  was  I  born,  and  for  this  cause  came 
I  into  the  world,  that  I  should  bear  witness  unto  the  truth.  Every  one  that  is 
of  the  truth  heareth  my  voice. 

"Pilate  saith  unto  him,  What  is  truth?" 

As  I  come  in  contact  with  men  and  things  in  the  world  today,  it 
seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  many  men  are  wondering, 
"What  is  truth?"  The  Savior  said  that  he  came  into  the  world,  and 
for  this  purpose  was  he  born,  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth  in  the  world ; 
and  I  find  joy  and  consolation  and  comfort  in  looking  to  him  for  a 
witness  of  truth  concerning  things  that  perplex  me,  and  I  think  the 
world  might  well  do  likewise. ! 

Among  people  who  profess  to  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  and  the  great  Teacher  that  they  in  their  churches, 
and  according  to  their  creeds,  follow,  there  are  controversies  over 
points  of  doctrine  and  in  regard  to  the  very  existence  of  God  and  his 
personality.  Still  they  do  not  look  to  him  for  an  answer  to  that  query, 
"What  is  truth?"  concerning  all  of  these  things.  The  personality 
of  God  is  a  question  that  is  being  discussed  in  a  spirit  of  controversy 
and  has  been  for  many  years.  Many  men  deny  the  existence  of  God 
as  a  personality,  as  a  being,  other  than  a  diffused  Spirit  throughout 
the  immensity  of  space. 

Jesus  Christ  said  that  he  came  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth,  and 
of  that  truth  he  has  borne  witness  unto  us.  Philip  asked  him  upon 
one  occasion  to  manifest  the  Father  unto  him  and  his  associates,  and 
the  Savior  seemed  a  little  surprised  that  such  a  query  should  be  made 
after  he  had  been  with  them,  the  Twelve,  so  long  and  had  taught  them. 
He  very  pointedly  said  to  Philip:  "He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen 
the  Father." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  your  manifestation  and  your 
witness  of  truth  concerning  God.  It  is  given  by  him  whose  mission 
it  was  to  bear  witness  to  the  truth  in  the  world.  Every  teaching, 
then,  of  the  Savior,  if  it  be  his  mission  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth, 
is  truth,  taught  to  our  Father's  children  for  their  salvation  here  upon 
the  earth.  "The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,"  Paul  says,  "is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation,"  and  this  is  true.  It  is  the  witness  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  world,  of  the  truth. 

The  question  that  is  perplexing  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  is 
where  is  the  truth  in  the  world  today  ?  We  who-  go  out  in  the  world  to 
preach  the  Gospel  come  in  contact  with  men  who  contend  tenaciously 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  they  are  teaching  the  truth,  that  the  church  they  represent  is 
the  true  church  of  God ;  that  their  concept  of  the  Father  and  of  the 
Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  a  true  concept;  and  still  we  find  them 
differing  among  themselves,  and  we  differ  from  all  of  them,  prac- 
tically speaking,  in  most  of  these  vital  points.  So  where  is  the  truth 
today?  Since  the  minds  of  men  have  been  confused,  and  men,  seem- 
ingly, have  gone  astray  from  the  truth,  or  at  least  are  confused  as  to 
where  it  is  located,  has  there  been  a  remanifestation  of  it? 

I  maintain,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  Joseph  Smith,  as  a 
prophet  raised  up  of  God,  not  equal  of  course  to  Jesus  Christ  in  any 
sense  of  the  word,  but  in  the  same  spirit,  came  into  the  world  to  bear 
witness  of  the  truth  today,  through  a  restoration  of  it,  just  the  same 
as  Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth  when 
he  came ;  and  in  all  essential  points  his  witness  concurs  with  the  witness 
of  Jesus  Christ.  . 

What  was  the  witness  of  Joseph  Smith,  when  a  mere  boy,  con- 
cerning the  personality  of  God?  We  all  know  that  there  was  great 
confusion  in  the  world  at  that  particular  time,  and  when  Joseph  Smith 
went  into  the  woods  to  pray  I  doubt  that  he  had  a  well  defined  idea 
or  concept  of  Deity,  or  at  least  a  concept  as  well  defined  as  he  had 
after  he  had  so  prayed  and  received  a  manifestation  of  the  Father. 
He  came  from  out  that  forest  and  boldly  declared,  to  the  day  of  his 
death,  that  there  came  into  his  presence  a  being  after  whose  image 
and  in  whose  likeness  he  was  formed, — in  other  words,  a  man,  an 
exalted  man,  who  proclaimed  himself  to  be  the  Father  of  another  being 
there  also  in  his  presence,  they  two  being  in  the  same  likeness ;  and 
he  gave  command  to  Joseph  Smith  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  his  Son. 

That  is  the  witness  of  Joseph  Smith  concerning  our  Father  in 
heaven — that  he  is  a  being  with  body,  parts,  and  passions,  in  whose 
image  and  likeness  mankind  is  formed.  He  bears  witness  that  the 
Son  is  like  him,  and  he  bore  witness  to  the  end  of  his  days  that  such 
was  the  truth.  From  the  very  moment  that  he  announced  these  things 
he  was  confronted  with  persecution  that  was  bitter.  He  no  doubt 
realized  that  by  retracting,  and  I  think  was  told  that  should  he  retract, 
this  persecution  would  cease.  But  he  bore  testimony  that  he  felt  like 
Paul  of  old  must  have  felt  when  he  saw  a  vision,  when  a  light  en- 
veloped him,  when  he  heard  and  *saw  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
Joseph  said : 

"I  know  that  I  have  seen  a  light,  and  that  in  that  light  I  saw  two  personages, 
and  they  are  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ;  and  who  am  I,  that 
I  should  deny  God,  for  I  know  that  I  know  these  things,  and  I  know  likewise 
that  God  knows  that  I  know  them." 

If  we  will  carefully  analyze  the  teachings  of  Joseph  Smith,  not 
only  in  this  particular  but  in  regard  to  every  principle  of  the  Gospel 
that  through  him  has  been  established,  we  will  find  that  they  concur 
with  the  witness  of  truth  manifested  and  established  by  Jesus  Christ 
when  he  was  among  the  children  of  men.  So  I  think  that  we  can 
well  look  to  this  as  the  means  and  as  the  key  whereby  we  may  know. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


29 


I  bear  you  my  witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world.  I 
know  that  the  Gospel,  as  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
and  it  will,  in  its  unfolding,  answer  every  query  and  every  problem  that 
confronts  the  world.  I  have  absolute  and  abiding  faith  in  these  things, 
and  am  willing  to  trust  to  the  Lord.  Perhaps  a  witness  has  not  yet 
been  borne  to  every  truth.  There  may  be  marvelous  truths  yet  to  be 
revealed  to  the  children  of  men,  and  the  Lord,  in  his  own  way  and 
through  his  Spirit,  will  make  these  things  known  to  his  children  as 
they  may  be  useful  unto  them.  I  think  that  we  should  search  for  truth ; 
we  should  strive  to  know  it;  we  should  strive  to  learn  it.  Only  truth 
can  free  the  world  from  the  errors  that  are  in  it  today.  Only  truth 
can  bring  about  a  better  condition  in  the  world,  and  less  hatred  and 
strife  and  bitterness  and  misery  among  the  children  of  men.  I  mean 
truth  if  it  goes  into  the  hearts  of  men  and  men  live  by  the  truth.  The 
Savior  says:  "If  you  will  follow  after  my  words,  and  believe  in  them, 
you  shall  know  the  truth  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free."  I  main- 
tain that  if  the  truth  is  planted  in  the  heart  of  man,  and  he  lives  in 
accordance  with  the  truth  as  it  comes  to  him  through  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord,  that  he  is  willing  to  pour  out  on  all  those  who  seek  him, 
it  will  relieve  mankind  and  the  human  race  of  all  the  ills  that  beset 
them. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate  the  truth ;  and  to  become  free 
by  knowing  it  and  by  living  in  harmony  with  it,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Our  twelfth  Article  of  Faith  says,  "We  believe  *  *  *  in  obeying, 
honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law."  There  are  those  who,  looking  upon 
this  as  a  religious  statement,  will  ridicule  it.  But  are  there  any  who 
will  ridicule  the  words  of  Lincoln?  "Bad  laws,  if  they  exist,  should 
be  repealed  as  soon  as  possible ;  still,  while  they  continue  in  force,  they 
should  be  religiously  observed." 

REVOLT  NATURAL  TO  AMERICANS 

My  purpose,  this  afternoon,  is  to  appeal  to  you  to  live  in  accord- 
ance with  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  to  obey  the  laws  of  our 
country. 

The  American  people  have  a  natural  inclination  to  break  the  law. 
Our  nation  was  cradled  in  revolt.  Our  Declaration  of  Independence 
and  the  oft-repeated  speeches  of  the  Revolutionary  period  keep  fanned 
into  a  flame  that  old  revolutionary  spirit — the  spirit  of  defiance.  Our 
Civil  War  is  perhaps  the  greatest  example  of  the  belief  of  Americans 
in  the  right  of  revolt. 

In  early  days,  when  our  numbers  were  few  and  when  these  few 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lived  on  sparsely  settled  areas,  to  have  laws  and  to  obey  them  was  not 
a  matter  of  supreme  importance. 

REVOLT  NOW  DISASTROUS 

But  in  this  mechanical  age,  with  our  great  cities,  our  densely 
populated  manufacturing  centers,  with  hitherto  undreamed-of  wealth 
— wealth  unequally  distributed — if  there  were  no  laws,  or  if  the  laws 
are  disobeyed  by  a  large  portion  of  the  community,  disaster  will  neces- 
sarily follow. 

Listen  again  to  Lincoln : 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well-wisher  of  posterity, 
swear  by  the  blood  of  the  Revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least  particular  the 
laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by  others.  *  *  *  Let 
reverence  for  the  law  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe 
that  prattles  on  her  lap.  Let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries,  and  in  colleges." 

AIDING  THE  CAUSE  OF  ANARCHY 

If  the  day  has  come  when  a  majority  of  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States  will  ridicule  Lincoln  and  his  ideas,  when  a  majority  will  disobey 
our  laws  and  disregard  our  Constitution,  the  republic  is  doomed,  its 
destruction  sure. 

The  American  Bar  Association  said  recently  by  resolution  that 
when  lawyers,  bankers,  manufacturers,  merchants,  and  social  leaders 
disobey  and  scoff  at  the  prohibition  law,  they  are  aiding  the  cause  of 
anarchy,  they  are  promoting  mob  violence,  they  are  encouraging  robbery. 

Many  are  intentionally  breaking  the  prohibition  law.  By  so  doing 
they  are  aiding  the  cause  of  anarchy,  promoting  mob  violence,  and 
encouraging  robbery. 

SWORN  DUTY  OF  OFFICERS 

It  is  the  sworn  duty  of  officials  to  obey  and  defend  the  Constitu- 
tion and  to  discharge  their  duties  with  fidelity.  Lincoln  not  only  asks 
that  every  "American  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  Revolution  never 
to  violate  the  laws  of  the  country,"  but  he  appeals  to  every  American 
"never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by  others."  Must  we  tolerate  public 
officials  who  themselves  break  the  laws? 

I  have  made  a  solemn  public  pledge  that  I  will  not  knowingly 
cast  my  vote  for  any  man  for  any  office  unless  I  have  been  assured  that 
he  lives  in  accordance  with  the  law.  I  am  referring  primarily  to  the 
prohibition  law. 

TWELVE  MILLION  WOMEN  ! 

The  Washington  Post  of  March  9,  1929,  announced  that  ten 
national  affiliated  women's  organizations  had  pledged  the  support  of 
twelve  million  women  of  the  United  States  to  aid  the  dry  drive  of  our 
country.  The  wife  of  the  President  was  pointed  to  as  a  fine  example 
of  the  way  in  which  American  women  can  help  in  the  enforcement  of 
the  liquor  law.  That  way  is  by  refusing  to  participate  in  social  or 
other  functions  where  the  law  is  broken.  Are  these  twelve  million 
women  carrying  out  this  pledge? 


ELDER  RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


31 


It  is  my  intention  to  request  those  candidates  for  whom  I  may 
cast  "my  vote  to  answer  the  following: 

(a)  Do  you  yourself  live  in  accordance  with  the  prohibition  law? 

(b)  Do  you  pledge  yourself  to  refuse  to -participate  in  any  social 
or  other  function  where  the  law  is  broken? 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  prohibits  the  manufacture, 
sale,  or  transportation  of  intoxicating  liquors.  Our  State  law  provides 
that  the  importing,  advertising,  giving  away,  exchanging,  dispensing, 
or  serving  of  liquor  is  "forever  prohibited."  It  is  unlawful  also  for 
any  person  to  have  intoxicating  liquor  in  his  possession. 

With  such  provisions  in  the  statutes  of  our  State  and  in  the 
Constitution  of  our  country,  no  public  official  can,  in  honor,  violate  the 
prohibition  laws  "in  the  least  particular"  nor  can  he  "tolerate  their 
violation  by  others." 

WHAT  ONE  HUNDRED  CAN  DO 

It  has  been  said  that  if  one  hundred  of  the  leading  'business  men 
in  Salt  Lake  City  would  live  in  accordance  with  the  law  and  would  not 
participate  in  social  or  other  functions  where  the  law  is  broken,  soon 
much  of  our  trouble  with  prohibition  would  be  over.  I  propose  to  try 
to  get  the  above-named  pledge — 

(a)  From  at  least  100  of  the  leading  business  men  in  Salt  Lake 

City. 

(b)  From  at  least  100  of  the  leading  business  men  of  the  State 
of  Utah. 

(c)  From  at  least  100  of  the  leading  business  men,  scientists, 
and  statesmen  of  the  United  States. 

If  the  outstanding  characters  of  our  country  can  be  induced  not 
to  participate  in  any  function,  social  or  otherwise,  where  the  law  is 
broken,  and  if  our  officers  will  do  their  sworn  duty,  then  respect  for 
the  Constitution  and  the  law  will  speedily  be  restored. 

PROHIBITION  A  SUCCESS 

Many  assert  that  prohibition  is  a  failure.  I  propose  to  present  a 
few  of  the  reasons  why  I  regard  it  a  success. 

Commander  Evangeline  Booth  of  the  Salvation  Army:  "Sin 
and  poverty  in  the  slums  of  New  York  have  decreased  since  prohibi- 
tion" (Readers'  Digest,  December,  1928).  Before  prohibition  there 
were  eight  licensed  saloons  in  every  block  of  the  bowery  besides  many 
unlicensed  dance  halls,  brothels,  and  dives.  Before  prohibition  the 
Salvation  Army  would  often  collect  twelve  hundred  or  thirteen  hund- 
red men  and  women  in  one  night  who  were  too  drunk  to  care  for  them- 
selves (Deseret  News,  Sept.  29,  1930).  Only  seven  or  eight  of  such 
characters  are  to  be  found  now. 

In  the  Salvation  Army  Memorial  Home  they  have  4,800  men  each 
week.  They  do  not  find  one  drunken  case  in  a  thousand.  Before 
prohibition  in  Jersey  City,  where  there  were  1200  saloons,  85,000  men 
on  Saturday  nights  squandered  their  week's  wages  for  liquor.  In  the 
gutters  were  to  be  seen  many  helpless  men  and  helpless  women.  These 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


were  not  homeless  people.  They  were  American  workers  and  the  money 
they  had  squandered  "we  of  the  Salvation  Army  knew  was  money 
needed  for  food,  clothing,  and  shelter."  In  what  industrial  center  of 
America  does  such  a  condition  occur  today?  Vice  has  not  disappeared, 
but  it  is  not  so  bold  as  it  was  before  prohibition.  Then  it  was  not  un- 
common in  the  quarters  of  the  Salvation  Army  to  see  a  newly  born 
baby  lying  in  the  arms  of  a  drink-soaked  mother.  Such  conditions 
do  not  exist  now. 

DRINKING  IN  EUROPE 

"I  wish  all  those  who  question  whether  any  change  for  the  better  has 
been  worked  in  America  might  observe  conditions  in  the  slums  abroad.  One 
of  our  London  homes  shelters  about  200  women,  three-quarters  of  whom  are 
so  absolutely  degraded  by  drink  as  to  appear  beyond  the  hope  of  redemption. 
They  are  in  rags  and  tatters,  blear-eyed  and  indecent.  Drink  is  responsible 
for  their  condition.    No  such  condition  can  be  found  in  America. 

"In  many  European  industrial  cities  the  Salvation  Army  is  trying  to  work 
some  sort  of  a_  regeneration  in  a  type  of  women  who  are  so  degraded  that  one 
shudders  to  think  of  their  condition.  Such  a  lot  of  women  could  not  be  recruited 
in  this  land  of  prohibition  where  the  volume  of  drinking  is  amazingly,  gloriously, 
lessened. 

"Under  prohibition  the  men  uncharitably  called  'bums'  are  disappearing. 
No  longer  is  the  Salvation  Army  besieged  by  a  clamorous  swarm  of  broken 
wrecks.  Because  of  prohibition  there  is  less  misery  among  the  poor  and  tens 
of  thousands  of  homes  have  been  reestablished  because  some  Americans  have 
stopped  drinking." 

CONDITIONS  IN  COLLEGES 

Dr.  Ruthven,  president  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  says  that 
during  these  prohibition  times  the  students  at  Ann  Arbor  do  not  drink 
one-tenth  as  much  liquor  as  they  did  when  he  was  a  student  in  the 
same  institution  before  prohibition.  One  of  the  house  rules  of  the 
Michigan  Union  at  Ann  Arbor  reads : 

"Gambling,  drinking  of  intoxicants,  entering  the  building  in  an  intoxicated 
condition,  and  bringing  intoxicating  liquors  into  the  building,  are  each  and  all 
absolutely  prohibited." 

The  effect  of  prohibition  at  Yale  University  has  been  good.  Pro- 
fessor Charles  C.  Clark: 

"I  know  whereof  I  speak,  for  I  have  been  a  member  of  the  committee  of 
discipline  for  a  time  dating  back  many  years  before  prohibition.  I  know  con- 
ditions intimately;  I  do  not  pretend  that  the  students  are  all  prohibitionists  or 
are  not  drinking,  but  the  change  has  been  simply  revolutionary.  *  *  *  In  the  old 
days  we  rarely  troubled  ourselves  about  a  case  of  near  intoxication  if  it  had  not 
resulted  in  some  kind  of  public  disorder,  whereas  now,  intoxication  of  itself 
is  regarded  as  calling  for  the  severest  penalty." 

Who,  then,  interested  in  the  welfare  of  youth,  will  say  that  pro- 
hibition has  not  been  a  success? 

Dr.  Ray  Lyman  Wilbur,  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  and  former 
president  of  Stanford  University: 

"There  is  no  doubt  that  there  has  been  a  marked  decrease  in  the  use  of 
alcoholic  beverages  among  the  college  students  with  whom  I  come  in  contact. 


ELDER  RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


33 


Compared  with  the  period  before  the  present  laws  were  put  into  effect,  I  should 
say  that  we  have  only  one-tenth  of  the  problem  we  had  at  that  time  in  connection 
with  liquor." 

WORKERS  BECOME  CAPITALISTS 

The  savings  of  the  country  in  1926  were  five  times  those  of  1914. 
They  increased  from  $6.71  per  capita  to  $33.00  per  capita.  This  is 
390%.    The  laborer  is  saving  the  money  he  once  spent  for  drink. 

Since  prohibition  we  have  hundreds  of  thousands  fewer  arrests 
and  jail  commitments  per  annum  for  drunkenness.  Our  drink-caused 
poverty  has  decreased  74%  and  we  have  reached  the  lowest  rate  of 
pauperism  known  in  the  United  States  (Wayne  B.  Wheeler). 

Prohibition  is  making  capitalists  out  of  our  workers,  according  to 
John  G.  Cooper  of  the  Brotherhood  of  Locomotive  Engineers.  "When 
the  saloon  closed,  the  'poor  man's  club'  vanished.  It  is  being  replaced 
by  comfortable  homes."  The  laborer  of  today  is  getting  much  more 
satisfaction  out  of  an  automobile  and  a  decent  home  than  he  ever  did 
out  of  the  corner  saloon.  Who  will  say  under  such  conditions  that 
prohibition  has  not  succeeded? 

IDEALS  OF  THE  LIQUOR  TRAFFIC 

"Bad  as  the  situation  is  now,  it  is  better  than  the  pit  out  of  which 
we  were  digged"  (Harry  Emerson  Fosdick).  In  1912  the  Retail 
Liquor  Dealers'  Association  met  in  Ohio.  Here  is  an  excerpt  from 
one  of  the  speeches : 

"We  must  create  an  appetite  for  liquor  in  the  growing  boys.  Men  who 
drink  *  *  *  will  die,  and  if  there  is  no  new  appetite  created,  our  counters  will 
be  empty  as  well  as  our  coffers.  The  open  field  for  the  creation  of  appetite  is 
among  the  boys.  Nickels  expended  in  treats  for  the  boys,  will  return  in  dollars 
to  your  tills  after  the  appetite  has  been  formed." 

That  tells  you  something  of  conditions  which  prevailed  before 
prohibition,  something  of  the  standards  of  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  liquor  business. 

SHALL  WE  GO  BACK? 

If  the  present  situation  is  unsatisfactory,  let  us  not  forget  con- 
ditions back  in  1884,  when  in  old  New  York  the  Board  of  Aldermen 
was  composed  of  "12  saloon  keepers,  4  saloon-controlled  politicians — 
16  out  of  24.  That  same  year  out  of  1002  Democratic  and  Republican 
primaries  and  conventions  held  in  New  York  City,  633  were  held  in 
saloons  and  96  in  places  next  door  to  saloons"  (Harry  Emerson  Fos- 
dick). Many  of  the  younger  generation  do  not  comprehend  what 
conditions  were  in  towns  like  Boston  where  before  prohibition  there 
was  a  saloon  license  for  every  310  inhabitants.  Do  we  desire  to  return 
to  those  conditions? 

Go  to  Great  Britain  and  see  the  public  houses  with  wire  cages  in 
front  of  them  where  little  children,  not  allowed  by  law  to  be  taken 
inside  the  public  houses,  are  huddled  "to  fight  like  dogs  and  cats,  while 
their  mothers  are  inside  getting  drunk."  What  we  have  in  the  United 
States,  bad  as  it  is,  is  better  than  that  condition  (Fosdick). 


34 


GENERAL  ■  CONFERENCE 


LIQUOR   THE  BREEDER  OF  CRIME 

Many  look  upon  conditions  today  under  prohibition  and  complain 
because  they  see  everywhere  bootleggers,  hijackers,  and  lawlessness. 
Remember  the  liquor  trade  in  the  United  States  has  always  been  lawless. 
"It  always  has  vomited  criminality  across  the  commonwealth.  It 
always  conspired  against  any  government  that  licensed  it  or  any  laws 
that  were  supposed  to  control  it"  (Fosdick). 

As  evidence  of  the  attitude  of  the  liquor  interests  the  National 
Liquor  Dealers'  Journal  of  September  10,  1913,  said: 

"To  us  there  is  the  handwriting  on  the  wall  and  its  interpretation  spells 
doom.  The  liquor  business  is  to  blame.  It  seems  incapable  of  learning  any 
lesson  of  achievement  or  motive  but  profit.  To  perpetuate  itself  it  has  formed 
alliances  with  the  slums.    It  deliberately  aids  the  most  corrupt  political  powers." 

The  liquor  trade  has  been  lawless  always.  It  will  be  lawless  forever. 
Bad  as  conditions  are  there  is  no  concession  to  the  liquor  interests 
that  can  be  made  in  the  law  that  will  not  make  conditions  worse.  Any 
change  in  that  direction  will  but  increase  the  quantity  of  liquor  con- 
sumed ;  and  increasing  the  amount  of  liquor  used  means  increasing  the 
amount  of  drunkenness,  increasing  the  amount  of  crime,  increasing 
the  amount  of  poverty,  increasing  the  amount  of  misery. 

BUSINESS    DEMANDED  PROHIBITION 

Prohibition  did  not  come  until  the  great  economic  interests  of  our 
country  gave  it  their  powerful  support.  Drink-befuddled  brains  cannot 
do  America's  work.  From  1919  to  1925  the  per  capita  productivity 
of  the  workers  in  the  automobile  business  increased  100%.  The  pro- 
ductivity of  all  the  workers  in  the  rubber  tire  business  increased  139% 
(Henry  Ford).  Throughout  the  United  States,  labor  reports  show 
"unbelievable  increases"  in  the  per  capita  production  of  American 
workmen.  By  making  America  more  productive  prohibition  has  suc- 
ceeded. 

Over  thirty  years  ago  the  United  States  Commissioner  of  Labor 
investigated  7,205  American  business  institutions  employing  1,750,000 
men.  Three-quarters  of  these  reported  they  never  hired  a  man  without 
investigating  his  drinking  habits.  Seven  hundred  reported  they  ab- 
solutely prohibited  any  drinking  on  the  part  of  any  employee  within 
or  outside  of  working  hours.  It  was  the  hard-headed  business  men 
of  America  who  furnished  the  driving  power  that  brought  the  American 
people  to  prohibition. 

"rule  g" 

Long  before  we  had  national  prohibition  the  following  "Rule  G" 
was  in  operation  on  every  first-class  railroad:  "The  use  of  intoxicants 
by  employees  while  on  duty  is  prohibited ;  their  use  or  the  frequenting 
of  places  where  they  are  sold  is  sufficient  cause  for  dismissal."  Such 
prohibitory  laws  were  not  written  by  fanatics  but  by  American  business 
men. 

Here  is  another: 


ELDER  RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


35 


"Any  employee  found  using  intoxicating  liquor — either  during  or  after 
working  hours — is  warned  that  it  will  not  be  tolerated,  and  he  is  urged  to  dis- 
continue its  use  completely.  If  the  promise  is  made,  then  the  man  is  given 
another  chance;  otherwise  he  is  discharged"  (Fosdick). 

The  locomotive,  the  automobile,  and  the  flying  machine  are" un- 
answerable arguments  in  favor  of  prohibition.  And  now  that  men  and 
women,  boys  and  girls,  are  at  the  wheels  of  automobiles  everywhere, 
wisdom  dictates  not  only  that  prohibition  must  be  continued  but  also 
that  it  must  be  enforced. 

WHAT  PROHIBITION   HAS  ACCOMPLISHED 

Before  prohibition  men  under  the  influence  of  liquor  were  tolerated. 
Today  no  intoxicated  employee  dare  approach  the  flying  field,  the 
engineer's  cab,  or  the  chauffeur's  seat,  without  being  subject  to  dis- 
missal.   Again,  prohibition  is  a  success. 

Before  prohibition  Chicago  had  a  saloon  for  every  300  inhabitants. 
It  is  said  that  if  every  speak-easy,  dive,  or  soft  drink  parlor  dispensing- 
liquor  in  that  city  were  counted  today,  the  number  would  not  be  half 
so  great.  In  our  larger  cities  before  prohibition,  drunken  men  and 
drunken  women  were  removed  from  lawns,  they  were  seen  frequently 
staggering  along  the  streets.  Such  spectacles  are  unknown  today. 
Prohibition  is  succeeding. 

Then,  dives  filled  with  drunken  men  were  seen  everywhere.  Women 
and  children,  cold,  naked,  and  hungry,  congregated  on  the  streets  of 
our  cities  looking  for  husbands  and  fathers.  There  are  no  such  spec- 
tacles today.  By  making  liquor  hard  to  get  and  by  increasing  its 
price,  prohibition  has  protected  these  poor  families  so  that  in  these 
days  there  are  few  mothers  and  children  waiting  in  terror  in  a  drunk- 
ard's home  for  the  return  of  a  drunken  husband  and  father.  Those 
who  are  using  liquor  now  are  the  so-called  "smart  set."  Fortunately, 
they  are  the  non-rearing  family  class.  Comparatively  few  of  the  chil- 
dren, therefore,  are  reared  by  parents  who  drink.  Thus  prohibition 
protects  the  poor  and  the  lowly  and  those  fine  law-abiding  Americans 
who  are  rearing  families. 

"government  control" 

Many  honest,  conscientious  citizens  stand  today  for  the  repeal  of 
the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  Most,  if  not  all,  of  these  favor  "govern- 
ment control." 

Government  control  means  that  the  people  can  get  liquor  without 
breaking  the  law;  this  will  mean  an  increased  consumption.  In  our 
automobiles  haven't  we  drunken  drivers  enough  already?  The  au- 
tomobile alone  is  reason  enough  for  the  strict  enforcement  of  our  pro- 
hibition laws. 

"You've  been  drinking.  With  you  at  the  wheel  I  will  not  get 
into  this  car,"  said  a  mother  as  she  and  her  fourteen-year-old  daughter 
stood  at  the  open  door  of  an  automobile. 

"Get  in,  get  in,  he  has  only  had  a  taste,"  said  a  group  of  people  who 
were  standing  about. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  car  hadn't  traveled  three  miles  on  a  downhill  grade  before  it 
reached  a  curve  and  by  the  drunken  driver  was  capsized.  The  child, 
who  had  been  selected  to  deliver  the  address  for  her  class  at  com- 
mencement, was  killed,  while  the  mother  and  other  occupants  of  the 
car  were  seriously  injured.  I  say  again  the  automobile  alone  is  reason 
enough  for  the  retention  and  the  strict  enforcement  of  the  prohibition 
law. 

Prohibition  means  efficiency.  Prohibition  means  prosperity.  Pro- 
hibition means  doing  away  with  drink-caused  poverty.  Prohibition 
means  that  there  will  be  no  children  in  the  United  States  who  cannot 
get  training  in  the  public  schools.  Prohibition  will  mean  that  the 
children  of  the  United  States,  even  the  poorest,  will  be  well  clothed, 
well  fed,  well  educated.  Are  not  these  arguments  strong  enough  to 
justify  the  retention  and  enforcement  of  prohibition? 

A  word  more  about  government  control.  It  is  in  operation  in 
Canada.  During  the  past  summer  I  spent  some  weeks  there  going  as 
far  north  as  Winnipeg.  From  personal  observation  I  concluded  that 
conditions  there,  under  government  control,  are  much  worse  than  con- 
ditions here  under  prohibition. 

TESTIMONY  OF  A  CANADIAN 

Fearing  that  the  information  secured  during  my  brief  stay  might 
not  have  led  to  a  correct  conclusion,  I  asked  a  practicing  attorney 
who  has  been  a  citizen  of  Canada  for  some  twenty  or  thirty  years  to 
tell  me  what  he  thinks  of  government  control. 

"To  my  personal  knowledge,"  began  my  able  and  experienced 
legal  friend,  "drinking  increased  immediately  in  every  province."  Do 
we  desire  to  modify  our  laws,  if  after  so  doing,  drinking  is  to  increase 
immediately  in  every  state  and  in  every  city? 

In  1927  six  Canadian  provinces  spent  $147,000,000  for  liquor. 
In  that  same  year  alcohol  in  the  Dominion  held  the  sixth  highest  place 
among  the  imports  of  the  nation.  Under  government  control  it  ad- 
vanced to  third  place  in  1928.  During  that  time  the  value  of  alcohol 
imported  increased  beyond  that  for  automobile  parts,  for  raw  sugar 
and  for  crude  petroleum.  Only  two  commodities,  machinery  and  coal, 
exceeded  in  value  that  of  imported  alcohol. 

A  FLOOD  OF  ALCOHOL 

Under  government  control,  said  the  "Toronto  Star"  in  1927 : 

"A  flood  of  alcohol  continues  to  pour  into  Canada.  During  the  fiscal  year 
which  ended  in  March,  1927,  the  Dominion  imports  of  alcoholic  beverages 
reached  the  value  of  $46,000,000  as  compared  with  $19,000,000  in  1925.  Including 
home  production,  the  latest  total  would  be  close  to  $100,000,000." 

Do  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  desire  to  have  the  amount  of 
alcoholic  liquor  consumed  increase  at  this  same  rapid  rate?  If  such 
increase  comes,  imagine  the  peril  that  will  exist  for  pedestrians  with  the 
whole  country  filled  with  drunken  automobile  drivers. 

During  the  four  years  following  the  adoption  of  government  con- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


37 


trol,  the  province  of  Alberta,  with  a  population  of  about  600,000, 
spent  $42,000 ,000  for  liquor.  This  amount  would  have  paid  the  total 
expense  of  operating  the  provincial  government  for  three  years,  it  would 
have  paid  the  total  cost  of  all  gasoline  used  in  Alberta  for  three  years, 
or  it  would  have  bought  more  than  half  the  automobiles  that  are  now 
in  use  in  that  Province.  Are  the  people  of  the  United  States  clamoring 
for  a  condition  like  this?  Do  the  people  of  the  United  States  desire 
to  have  our  laboring  men  spend  proportionately  large  sums  for  liquor, 
thus  offering  inducements  to  our  laboring  men  to  spend  for  liquor 
that  money  which  is  now  being  used  to  feed  and  clothe  and  educate 
their  children  and  to  provide  comfortable  homes  for  their  wives  and 
families  ? 

This  very  day  one  of  Salt  Lake  City's  prominent  citizens  said  he 
stands  strongly  for  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  because 
it  will  do  away  with  bootlegging.  William  R.  Wood  of  Winnipeg 
says  the  brewers  bootlegged  62%  of  all  the  beer  they  manufactured, 
and  adds :  "Illicit  stills  are  found  doing  business  on  a  gigantic  scale 
after  years  of  government  control.  Carloads  of  illicit  liquor  are  still* 
intercepted  on  the  railways."  With  the  neighbor  on  our  north  involved 
in  all  these  serious  difficulties,  are  we  going  to  follow  in  her  footsteps 
and  adopt  government  control? 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Tilton  says  of  conditions  in  Canada:  1.  The 
government  by  putting  its  seal  of  approval  upon  drinking  has  almost 
annihilated  the  work  of  the  church  through  years  of  teaching  temper- 
ance and  sobriety.  2.  Bootlegging  in  Quebec  is  on  the  increase,  and 
complaints  of  liquor  law  violation  have  almost  trebled  between  1922 
and  1925.  3.  The  number  of  government  liquor  shops  increased  from 
64  in  1922  to  90  in  1925.  4.  Headlines  in  the  Montreal  Post  during 
government  control:  "Montreal  the  Mecca  for  Crooks,"  and  "A 
Veritable  Avalanche  of  Outlawry,  Hold-ups,  and  Robberies  Has  De- 
scended upon  the  City."  5.  A  mayor  of  Winnipeg :  "While  conditions 
under  prohibition  were  bad,  the  present  conditions  are  a  thousand  times 
worse."  6.  Under  government  control  the  province  of  Quebec  consumed 
in  1925,  27,397  more  gallons  of  alcohol  than  in  1924. 

"Toronto  Globe" : 

"If  by  success  of  government  control  we  mean  increased  manufacture, 
increased  facilities  for  the  people  to  secure  liquor,  increased  sales,  increased 
consumption,  increased  drunkenness — then  government  control  is  a  success. 

"If  we  mean  decreased  consumption  and  decreased  drunkenness,  if  we 
mean  reduction  in  bootlegging,  blind  piggeries  and  law  breaking,  then  govern- 
ment control  is  a  failure." 

IS  LIQUOR  NECESSARY? 

Invitations  have  been  extended  to  economists  of  known  standing 
throughout  the  country  to  write  on  the  economic  value  of  the  use  of 
liquor.  No  economist  has  been  found  who  will  speak  or  write  on  that 
side  of  the  question.  All  economists  agree  that  America  sober  has 
achieved  things  of  which  America  drunk  never  could  have  dreamed. 

Some  have  argued  that  liquor  is  necessary  in  order  to  produce  relax- 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ation  or  rest  from  the  prosaic  dullness  of  the  average  life.  In  modern 
America  the  motor  car,  the  movies,  and  the  radio  produce  this  relaxa- 
tion. These  and  prohibition  have  transformed  conditions.  Mass  ex- 
istence is  no  longer  the  narrow,  rum-ridden  life  of  a  generation  ago. 

The  automobile  driver  who  is  quite  drunk  is  usually  not  dangerous 
because  he  is  so  easily  detected  or  incapacitated,  but  the  really  dangerous 
driver  is  the  man  who  has  had  one  or  two  drinks  only,  who  still  thinks 
he  is  in  possession  of  his  faculties  but  whose  driving  judgment  has  been 
impaired.  A  moderate  drinker,  who  slightly  swerves  in  the  wrong 
direction,  may  collide  with  any  one  of  the  23,000,000  motor  vehicles 
that  crowd  the  nation's  highways  (Prohibition  Still  At  Its  Worst — 
Fisher,  p.  340). 

When  the  Pennsylvania  Railroad  forbids  its  locomotive  engineers 
to  drink  a  drop  even  when  off  duty,  ought  not  the  American  people, 
through  legally  authorized  representatives,  to  forbid  all  automobile 
drivers  to  do  the  same? 

He  who  drives  an  engine  has  a  steel  track  to  steer  his  course.  But 
he  who  drives  an  automobile  has  to  steer  his  own  course.  Every 
car  or  pedestrian  he  passes  is  at  his  mercy.  Each  cross  road  is  a  grade 
crossing.  Engineers  are  trained  professionals.  Many  automobile 
drivers  are  amateurs.  If  private  prohibition,  applied  to  the  professional 
on  a  perfected  track  is  justified,  surely  government  prohibition  applied 
to  the  amateur  on  an  unprotected  track  is  more  than  justified.  Pro- 
hibition applied  to  the  automobile  driver  in  America  means  prohibition 
applied  to  everybody. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and 'President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  being  present  at  this 
Conference,  and  feel,  as  no  doubt  you  feel,  that  many  very  precious 
things  have  been  presented  for  the  consideration  of  the  people  who 
have  assembled  together. 

My  mind  is  running  upon  matters  pertaining  to  missionary  work, 
that  being  my  responsibility.  I  come  up  with  greetings  from  the 
missionaries  who  labor  in  the  California  Mission,  and  I  think  I  may 
be  justified  in  saying  that  we  feel  considerably  distressed  in  our  feelings 
because  of  the  tremendous  reduction  that  has  taken  place  in  our  numbers 
during  the  present  year.  It  looks  as  though  by  the  end  of  the  year 
we  will  probably  have  a  reduction  of  fifty  per  cent  in  the  number  of  mis- 
sionaries in  the  California  Mission.  Fifty  per  cent  less  than  January, 
1930.  We  have  been  in  frequent  correspondence  with  the  presiding 
authorities  of  the  Church  about  missionaries,  until  I  have  sometimes  felt 
myself  that  when  I  would  make  reference  to  the  need  of  the  mission  for 
an  increased  number  of  missionaries,  it  would  not  be  very  pleasant  reading, 
because  of  it  being  so  frequently  repeated. 

I  am  conscious  of  the  fact,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  financial 
conditions  are  not  good.   People  are  suffering  from  a  lack  of  means,  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


39 


I  am  wondering  if  it  is  possible  that  any  of  the  Ward  and  Stake 
authorities  who  make  recommendations  to  the  presiding  authorities  for 
missionary  calls,  feel  there  ought  not  to  be  the  demand  made  upon 
the  strength  of  Israel  that  has  been  made  in  the  past,  because  of  the 
depression  that  prevails  throughout  the  land. 

Personally,  I  think  there  should  be  some  steps  taken  in  local 
communities  to  improve  the  conditions  from  a  missionary  point  of 
view.  Ordinarily,  when  a  missionary  is  called  to  go  out  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  the  responsibility  pertaining  to  his  expenses  rests  altogether 
upon  the  parents  or  other  near  relatives.  This  should  be  changed. 
I  entertain  the  thought  that  if  a  real  effort  were  made  in  the  local 
communities,  through  bishops,  stake  presidencies,  and  high  councilmen, 
to  interest  all  the  people  in  the  expense  of  the  missionaries  who  represent 
them  in  the  field,  a  great  burden  might  be  lifted  from  the  shoulders  of 
the  fathers  and  the  mothers  who  have  representatives  out  in  the  world 
preaching  the  Gospel.  This  responsibility  properly  belongs  to  all  the 
people. 

I  do  not  understand  that  our  obligations  as  members  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  removed  or  lessened 
because  of  the  financial  distresses  that  are  in  the  land.  We  have,  had 
quoted  in  our  hearing  the  Scriptures,  the  inspired  declarations  of  the 
prophets.  One  of  those  prophets,  as  we  heard  in  the  morning  session, 
represented  that  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  had  said  to  him  that  he  was 
a  watchman  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  and  that  his  duty  was  to  give  warn- 
ing to  the  inhabitants  of  the  land.  If  they  hearkened  they  would  be 
preserved.  If  they  did  not  hearken  they  would  be  destroyed,  but  the 
watchman  would  have  delivered  his  soul.  Well,  we  need  these  watch- 
men that  the  people  may  be  warned.  That  is  my  feeling.  It  is  very 
strongly  upon  me. 

We  have  been  laboring — I  trust,  with  a  fair  amount  of  zeal  through- 
out the  California  Mission — as  watchmen.  We  have  been  trying  to 
bring  to  the  attention  of  the  people  the  fact  that  we  live  in  a  marvelous 
age,  and  that  as  preachers  of  the  Gospel  we  have  been  properly  called 
by  divine  authority  to  cry  repentance  among  the  people.  We  have 
been  trying  to  testify  that  we  are  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
that  we  know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  that  therein 
is  the  righteousness  of  God  revealed,  from  faith  to  faith.  We  have 
been  trying  to  impress  the  people  with  the  thought  that  by  this  divine 
appointment  we  have  been  sent  out  to  a  perishing  world,  with  the 
message  of  salvation ;  and  while  the  people  have  not  flocked  in  very 
great  numbers  to  listen  to  our  declaration,  some  have  paid  attention, 
and  there  have  been  many  investigators.  Many  of  them  may  not  be 
investigating  with  very  great  anxiety,  but  they  have  at  least  had  their 
hearts  so  touched  by  the  teachings  and  attitude  and  personality  and  spirit 
of  the  missionaries,  that  they  are  glad,  in  many  cases,  to  receive  them 
into  their  homes ;  and  some  of  them  are  inquiring  for  missionaries 
and  we  have  none  to  send  to  them. 

In  quite  a  number  of  instances,  missionaries  are  laboring  alone. 
That  is  not  entirely  in  harmony  with  the  counsels  of  the  Church  and 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  the  rule  that  has  prevailed  quite  largely  in  missionary  work,  but 
because  of  the  reduction  in  our  numbers,  in  an  effort  to  hold  the  ground 
that  has  been  won  we  have  split  up  and  divided  our  forces,  in  order 
that  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God,  might  be 
carried  in  some  measure  to  the  people  who  have  been  in  the  habit  of 
coming  in  contact  with  representatives  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  would  like  to  humbly  appeal  to  the  men  of  the  Church,  in  the 
communities  of  the  Church  where  recommendations  for  missionaries 
originate,  that  after  the  call  has  been  made  by  the  presiding  authorities 
of  the  Church,  the  whole  community  render  financial  assistance.  I  am 
quite  confident  when  I  say  what  I  have  said  regarding  the  reduction 
of  missionaries  in  the  California  Mission,  that  I  represent  the  condition 
that  prevails  in  all  of  the  missions. 

I  do  not  understand  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  been  relieved  one  whit  from  the  carrying  of  the  Gospel 
message  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Our  Father  in  heaven  declared, 
at  the  opening  of  this  dispensation,  that  this  message  is  to  be  taken  to 
all  the  world.  That  is  our  responsibility,  that  we  shall  be  found  in 
the  nations  of  the  world,  that  we  shall  be  crying  repentance,  that  we 
shall  be  bearing  witness  to  the  restoration  of  the  authority  by  which 
men  minister  in  the  name  of  the  Son  of  God ;  for  we  are  in  the  same 
condition  as  were  the  disciples  of  old.  Jesus  taught  them:  "Ye  have 
not  chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you,  and  have  ordained  you,  and 
have  sent  you  forth,  that  you  might  bring  forth  fruit."  That  is  the 
condition  of  the  missionaries.  They  have  been  selected  from  their 
fellow  men,  and  by  divine  authority  they  have  been  commissioned  to 
carry  the  message  of  the  Gospel  to  the  peoples  in  the  missions  to  which 
they  have  been  assigned ;  and  there  surely  is  a  crying  demand  for 
that  service. 

I  hope  that  proper  local  authority  will  be  concerned  in  relation 
to  this  matter,  that  the  hands  of  mission  presidents  may  be  strengthened, 
and  that  the  opportunities  that  abound  may  be  utilized,  in  the  preaching 
of  the  word  of  God. 

I  think  I  ought  not  to  take  more  time,  but  I  most  earnestly  make 
this  plea.  I  am  glad  to  say  that  although  our  numbers  are  smaller 
than  they  have  been  at  any  time  during  my  presidency  in  the  California 
Mission,  we  are  nevertheless  a  happy  company  of  men  and  women. 
We  do  believe  in  the  Gospel  that  has  been  revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  We  do  believe  that  the  promises  of  the  prophets  of  old, 
in  regard  to  the  latter  times,  are  having  fulfilment ;  and  our  hearts, 
as  we  endeavor  to  deliver  this  witness  to  the  people,  burn  with  joy 
within  us,  and  you  know  the  promise  has  been  made  by  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  that  by  that  burning  we  should  know  concerning  the  truth  of  his 
work,  and  we  have  that  burning  in  our  souls  and  know  the  truth  has 
been  revealed. 

We  want  help,  that  we  may  deliver  the  message  that  has  been 
committed  into  our  hands.  May  there  be  ways  and  means  found  to 
give  the  help,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 


41 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  W estern  States  Mission 

It  is  a  very  great  pleasure  to  return  and  associate  with  friends 
and  with  Latter-day  Saints  in  our  Conference,  and  I  sincerely  trust 
that  while  I  occupy  this  position  the  Lord  will  bless  me  as  he  has  done 
my  brethren. 

President  McMurrin  has  uttered  the  thoughts,  the  hopes,  and  the 
desires  of  every  mission  president,  I  am  sure.  It  has  been  a  matter 
of  great  concern  to  each  of  us  to  see  our  missionary  numbers  dwindle 
as  they  have  within  the  last  eight  or  nine  months.  It  has  been  a 
difficult  matter  to  so  dispose  of  our  missionaries  as  to  take  care  of  the 
various  fields  of  labor  in  which  their  services  are  required.  It  has  been 
necessary  and  essential  that  we  get  local  elders  to  help  us,  as  far  as  we 
possibly  can.  I  am  aware  of  the  fact  that  in  securing  the  help  of 
these  local  brethren  and  sisters  we  are  merely  adding  to  the  faith  and 
integrity  of  our  own  people,  and  adding  to  their  ability  to  assist  us  at 
all  times  in  the  future;  and  perhaps  in  that  respect  the  dearth  of  mis- 
sionaries may  have  had  a  compensating  effect.  But  there  is  a  great 
need  for  missionaries  to  carry  the  word,  to  spread  our  literature,  to 
bear  their  testimony  to  the  people;  and  there  are  many  people  who 
seem  to  be  willing  to  at  least  listen. 

The  power  of  the  Lord  is  manifest  in  the  missions.  I  know  that 
in  the  Western  States  Mission  we  have  had  many  favors  at  his  hands. 
There  have  been  some  manifestations  of  his  power  that  have  thrilled 
and  delighted  us. 

I  recently  mentioned,  in  a  report  to  my  brethren,  two  important 
happenings.    I  think  you  might  enjoy  hearing  of  them. 

Over  in  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  a  young  missionary  sister  was  dis- 
tributing tracts  with  her  companion ;  her  companion  on  one  side  of 
the  street,  she  on  the  other.  She  came  to  the  door  of  a  woman 
who  invited  her  in,  with  the  understanding  that  she  would  listen 
to  her  only  while  she  continued  her  ironing.  The  woman  said : 
"I  am  too  busy  to  listen  to  you  unless  you  talk  to  me  while  I 
iron."  So  the  sister  went  in,  took  a  chair  and  sat  down.  Pretty 
soon  the  ironing  stopped.  The  woman  pulled  the  plug  out  of  the 
electric  iron,  stood  the  iron  on  its  end,  drew  up  a  chair,  and  sat  down 
in  front  of  our  missionary  sister,  and  said  to  her:  "What  is  there  about 
you  that  is  different  from  any  one  I  ever  saw  before?"  This  sister, 
of  course,  was  unable  to  answer  her,  for  she  was  not  aware  of  any 
difference.  The  woman  said:  'Why,  you  are  surrounded  by  a  halo 
of  light.  I  have  never  seen  that  before  in  my  life."  So  our  young 
missionary  sister  tried  to  explain  to  her  that  sometimes  the  Lord's 
blessings  were  manifest,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  which  surrounded  his 
servants  might  be  seen  by  those  who  had  the  gift  of  seeing.  She  was 
so  interested  and  so  astonished  that  after  a  little  while,  hearing  in  the 
conversation  something  about  our  Primaries,  she  asked  Sister  Good- 
liffe:  "What  is  the  Primary?"    Sister  Goodliffe  explained  to  her  what 


42 


GENERAL , CONFERENCE 


our  Primaries  are.  The  woman  said:  "I  am  the  mother  of  nine 
children.  Will  you  hold  a  Primary  in  my  home?"  So  today,  once  a 
week,  the  two  sisters  in  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  go  to  this  good  woman's 
home,  and  they  hold  a  Primary  with  her  children  and  the  neighbors' 
children  that  are  invited  in. 

We  have  been  so  short  of  missionaries  that  it  became  necessary 
to  take  the  sister  missionaries  out  of  Council  Bluffs.  We  had  the 
spectacle  or  the  experience  of  a  pair  of  elders  holding  six  Primaries 
every  week,  in  place  of  the  sisters.  One  would  smile,  perhaps,  to  think 
of  that,  and  yet  they  have  been  quite  successful  in  their  efforts  to  tell 
stories  and  entertain  the  children  after  the  manner  of  Primary  teaching. 
We  are  hoping  that  we  may  soon  have  two  sisters  that  we  can  send  back 
in  there  to  continue  that  work.  They  do  it  so  much  better  than  the 
elders. 

Upon  another  occasion,  speaking  of  the  power  of  the  Lord  and 
the  manifestation  of  his  goodness,  two  elders  in  northern  New  Mexico, 
while  going  through  the  country  for  the  purpose  of  visiting  the  scattered 
Saints,  came  into  a  community  where  two  or  three  families  of  Saints 
resided,  and  began  to  administer  the  ordinance  of  baptism  for  their 
children.  One  little  fellow  who  applied  for  baptism  was  nine  years 
of  age.  He  had  been  crippled  from  his  infancy  with  an  affliction 
in  his  knee  of  such  a  character  that  whenever  his  knee  was  placed 
in  cold  water  he  suffered  excruciating  pain.  His  mother  said :  "No ; 
no,  you  can't  be  baptized.  You  couldn't  stand  it."  But  the  little 
fellow  pleaded.  He  wanted  to  be  baptized.  The  elders  were  asked : 
"Shall  we  baptize  him?"  and  of  course  they  hardly  knew  what  to  say. 
They  naturally  left  the  matter  to  the  parents.  Upon  the  earnest  plead- 
ing of  the  boy  he  was  permitted  to  enter  the  cold  river  water,  for 
baptism,  and  to  their  astonishment  there  was  no  pain,  and  the  little 
fellow  came  forth  from  the  water  rejoicing.  Afterwards  the  elders 
laid  their  hands  upon  him,  and  invoked  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon 
him,  and  went  their  way.  In  three  weeks  time,  on  their  way  back  to 
their  quarters,  they  passed  through  this  section  of  country,  and  naturally 
went  to  the  home  to  see  how  the  little  boy  was.  When  they  arrived 
he  was  not  in  the  house.  The  mother,  replying  to  their  inquiry  as  to 
his  whereabouts,  said :  "He  is  out  on  the  hill,  looking  for  the  cattle." 
The  little  fellow  had  been  healed  and  was  able  to  walk.  Never  before, 
in  his  life,  had  he  been  able  to  do  so  without  pain  or  distress. 

One  of  these  two  elders,  at  a  recent  conference  held  in  Alamosa, 
Colorado,  stood  before  the  congregation  to  address  them,  and  there  was 
a  manifestation  of  the  power  of  the  Lord  upon  him,  so  that  he  was 
lifted  up  beyond  himself,  and  I  have  never  heard  any  one  speak  better 
than  he  did  that  night.  We  knew  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  was 
with  him,  but  only  one  person  in  the  congregation  was  conscious  of 
an  unusual  manifestation.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  a  little  girl,  less 
than  fourteen  years  of  age,  came  to  the  presiding  elder  and  said :  "All 
the  while  that  Elder  Tenney  spoke  there  was  a  beautiful  personage 
clothed  in  white  standing  to  the  right  of  him,  and  this  personage's 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


43 


countenance  was  beautiful  to  behold.  When  Elder  Tenney  closed  his 
remarks,  he  disappeared."  We  were  naturally  delighted  and  happy 
to  know  that  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  power  of  the  Lord 
do  accompany  the  labors  of  our  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  am  sure  that  these  manifestations  are  occurring  everywhere, 
merely  a  sign  of  the  favor  of  our  Father  to  his  servants. 

It  is  a  glorious  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  within 
the  influence  of  such  spiritual  manifestations  and  blessings,  and  I 
count  it  not  only  an  honor,  but  a  joy  and  privilege  to  be  thus  favored. 
I  am  enjoying  my  labors.  I  have  pleasure  in  reporting  to  you  that 
all  the  missionaries,  with  one  exception  who  are  laboring  in  the  Western 
States  Mission  at  the  present  time,  are  quite  well,  and  the  one  who  is 
ill  is  recovering. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  May  he  bless  you  in  your  basket  and 
in  your  store,  that  you  will  listen  and  heed  the  appeal  that  has  been 
made  to  send  us  more  missionaries,  so  that  we  can  carry  on  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  This  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

,  liberty's  perfect  law 

The  Gospel  of  Christ  is  the  Perfect  Law  of  Liberty.  So  says 
James  the  Apostle.  But  liberty  does  not  mean  license,  nor  does  the 
Gospel  stand  for  antiquated  tradition  or  for  present-day  speculation, 
religious  or  irreligious.  It  embraces  all  truth,  whether  in  science, 
philosophy,  art,  or  any  other  department  of  knowledge.  God  himself 
is  its  Author,  its  Fountainhead,  and  divine  revelation  is  the  channel 
through  which  it  flows. 

■   -    PURPOSE  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

The  Gospel  is  a  great  system  of  laws,  a  code  of  eternal  principles, 
whereby  the  omnipotent  and  all-wise  Creator,  our  Father  in  Heaven, 
proposes  to  lift  fallen  mankind,  his  sons  and  daughters,  and  not  only 
save  them,  but  exalt  them  to  his  glorious  presence,  and  so  far  as  they 
prove  worthy  and  capable,  share  with  them  the  empire  of  the  universe. 

NO  TYRANNY 

Freedom  is  the  Gospel's  sign  manual.  Tyranny  has  no  place 
therein.  There  is  no  room  in  all  the  Government  of  God  for  the 
exercise  of  unrighteous  dominion. 

ETERNITY'S  CONSTITUTION 

The  God  we  worship  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  but  He  is  a 
respecter  of  men's  rights,  and  a  guardian  of  them — a  fact  clearly  shown 
in  the  heaven-inspired  Constitution  of  our  country,  and  in  the  Gospel 
itself,  which  might  be  termed  the  Constitution  of  Eternity. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  FUNDAMENTAL  PRINCIPLE 

Man's  free  agency,  his  right  to  worship  as  his  conscience  dictates, 
and  to  act  in  all  things  willingly  and  without  compulsion — a  principle 
handed  down  from  the  eternal  past,  where  Lucifer  was  overthrown 
for  seeking  to  destroy  it — is  an  integral  part  of  Liberty's  Perfect  Law. 
As  such  it  found  expression,  a  concrete  illustration,  and  that  by  direct, 
divine  command,  when  this  Church  was  organized,  one  hundred  years 
ago. 

THE  CONSENT  OF  THE  GOVERNED 

"Governments  derive  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the 
governed."  So  says  the  Declaration  of  American  Independence,  and 
so  says,  in  effect,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  doctrine  of  common 
consent  has  been  practiced  in  this  Church  from  the  beginning,  and  is 
shown  forth  in  all  the  conferences  and  other  important  gatherings  of 
the  Lord's  people.  They  are  clearly  within  their  rights  when  they 
vote  for  or  against  the  officers  nominated  to  preside  over  them,  and 
when  they  approve  or  disapprove  of  any  proposed  measure  vitally 
affecting  their  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare. 

JOSEPH  AND  OLIVER 

The  men  who  organized  this  Church,  or  who  were  most  conspicuous 
in  its  organization,  were  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  Joseph 
had  looked  upon  the  face  of  God ;  had  gazed  upon  the  Father  and  .the 
Son;  had  received  from  them  instructions  concerning  the  then  existing 
churches,  from  which  he  was  commanded  to  hold  himself  aloof,  and 
await  the  coming  of  the  true  Church,  which  was  about  to  reappear,  and 
in  the  establishment  of  which  he  was  to  be  the  chief  human  instrument. 
Oliver  had  been  with  Joseph  in  the  work  of  translating  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  assisting  him  as  copyist  or  scribe.  He  had  shared  with 
the  Prophet  the  honor  of  receiving  the  restored  priesthoods — the 
Aaronic  and  the  Melchizedek;  the  former  under  the  hands  of  John 
the  Baptist,  the  latter  by  the  subsequent  personal  ministration  of  the 
Apostles,  Peter,  James  and  John.  The  foremost  of  these  heavenly 
messengers,  John  the  Baptist,  had  told  Joseph  and  Oliver  that  they 
were  to  be,  respectively,  the  First  and  Second  Elders  of  the  Church ; 
and  had  directed  them  to  baptize  each  other  as  a  preliminary  to  other 
important  proceedings  soon  to  follow. 

In  the  first,  second  and  third  chapters  of  the  History  of  the  Church, 
Volume  One — Joseph  Smith's  autobiography — the  Prophet  tells  his 
own  story  of  these  wonderful  events ;  and  they  are  also  recorded  in  a 
more  recently  published  Church  History — the  splendid  product  of  the 
able  pen  of  President  B.  H.  Roberts. 

AN   AMERICAN  CHURCH 

Speaking  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  that  came  to  him  and  his  co- 
laborer  in  the  farmhouse  of  Peter  Whitmer,  Sr.,  at  Fayette,  Seneca 
County,  N.  Y.,  a  word  directing  them  to  ordain  each  other  to  the  office 
of  Elder,  the  Prophet  says : 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  45 


"We  were,  however,  commanded  to  defer  this  our  ordination  until  such 
time  as  it  should  be  practicable  to  have  our  brethren,  who  had  been  and  who 
should  be  baptized,  assembled  together,  when  we  must  have  their  sanction  to 
our  thus  proceeding  to  ordain  each  other,  and  have  them  decide  by  vote  whether 
they  were  willing  to  accept  us  as  spiritual  teachers,  or  not." 

An  American  Church,  truly,  manifesting  at  the  very  hour  of  its 
birth  the  sublime  democratic  doctrine :  "Governments  derive  their 
just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the  governed."  And  truly  did  Joseph 
Smith,  God's  prophet,  show  himself  a  real  and  true  American  when, 
at  a  later  period,  in  answer  to  a  question  put  to  him,  as  to  how  he 
managed  to  govern  a  community  made  up  of  so  many  different  nation- 
alities, with  all  their  varied  languages,  customs  and  traditions,  he  re- 
plied :  "I  teach  them  correct  principles,  and  they  govern  themselves." 

GOD  AND  THE  PEOPLE 

Let  it  not  be  supposed,  however,  that  this  recognition  of  "govern- 
ment of  the  people,  by  the  people,  for  the  people" — as  Lincoln  expressed 
it — shuts  God  out  of  the  question.  It  may  do  so  in  the  mind  of  a 
godless  politician,  or  a  pseudo,  make-believe  Christian,  but  not  in  the 
mind  of  a  true  Latter-day  Saint  or  a  Christian  of  genuine  stamp.  The 
United  States  is  a  republic,  in  which  the  people  are  looked  upon  as 
the  one  source  of  political  power.  The  Church  of  Christ  is  a  theo- 
democracy,  in  which  God  speaks  and  the  people  say  amen !  It  is  the 
Church  of  God  and  his  people,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  , 

Obedient  to  the  divine  mandate  spoken  to  them  in  Father  Whitmer's 
humble  home,  Joseph  and  Oliver  took  steps  to  ascertain  whether  or 
not  their  brethren  would  sanction  their  ordination  as  Elders  of  the 
Church  and  were  willing  to  come  under  their  spiritual  tutelage. 

NOT  YET  QUALIFIED 

What ! — exclaims  one.  After  these  men  had  communed  with 
heavenly  beings  and  received  from  them  commandments  for  their 
guidance;  after  receiving  divine  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel,  ad- 
minister its  ordinances,  and  establish  once  more  on  earth  the  long 
absent  Church  of  Christ !  After  all  this  must  they  go  before  the  people 
and  ask  their  consent  to  organize  them  and  preside  over  them  as  a 
religious  body  ?  Yes,  that  was  precisely  the  situation.  Notwithstanding 
all  those  glorious  manifestations,  they  were  not  yet  fully  qualified  to  hold 
the  high  positions  unto  which  they  had  been  divinely  called.  One 
element  was  lacking — the  consent  of  the  people.  Until  that  consent  was 
given,  there  could  be  no  church  with  these  people  as  its  members  and 
those  men  as  its  presiding  authorities.  The  Great  Ruler  of  all  never 
did  and  never  will  foist  upon  any  of  his  people,  in  branch,  ward,  stake 
or  Church  capacity,  a  presiding  officer  whom  they  are  not  willing  to 
accept  and  uphold. 

Happily  for  all  concerned,  the  brethren  associated  with  Joseph 
and  Oliver  on  that  memorable  sixth  of  April  of  the  year  1830,  did 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sanction  their  ordination,  did  "decide  by  vote"  to  accept  them  as  their 
"spiritual  teachers." 

GOD  THE  GIVER 

But  suppose  it  had  been  otherwise.  Suppose  the  brethren  in 
question  had  not  been  willing  to  accept  the  men  whom  the  Lord  had 
chosen,  but  had  lifted  their  hands  against  instead  of  for  them.  What 
would  have  been  the  result?  Would  such  action  have  taken  from 
Joseph  and  Oliver  their  Priesthood  or  their  gifts  and  powers  as  seers, 
prophets  and  revelators  of  the  Most  High?  No.  Any  more  than  it  would 
have  blotted  out  the  fact  that  Joseph  had  seen  God,  and  that  he  and 
Oliver  had  communed  with  angels  sent  from  Heaven  to  ordain  them. 
Their  brethren  had  not  given  them  the  Priesthood,  had  not  made  them 
prophets  and  seers,  and  they  would  have  remained  such  regardless 
of  any  adverse  action  on  the  part  of  their  associates.  The  Gospel,  the 
Priesthood,  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  are  not  within  the 
gift  of  the  membership  of  the  Church.  They  are  bestowed  by  the  Head 
of  the  Church,  Jesus  Christ,  in  person  or  by  proxy,  and  without  his 
consent  no  power  on  earth  or  under  the  earth  could  take  them  away. 

WHAT  MIGHT  HAVE  RESULTED 

But  if  the  vote  had  been  unfavorable,  this  would  have  resulted: 
The  brethren  and  sisters  who  were  waiting  to  be  admitted  into  the 
Church  would  have  closed  the  door  in  their  own  faces,  would  have 
cut  themselves  off  from  a  most  precious  privilege,  would  have  deprived 
themselves  of  the  inestimable  benefits  flowing  from  the  exercise  of  the 
gifts  and  powers  possessed  by  the  men  divinely  commissioned  to 
inaugurate  this  great  Latter-day  Work;  and  they  could  have  gone 
elsewhere,  and,  under  divine  direction,  have  organized  the  Church 
of  Christ  among  any  people  worthy  to  constitute  its  membership 
and  willing  that  these  men  should  be  their  leaders.  But  the  vote  was 
in  their  favor,  thank  the  Lord !  and  we  who  are  here  today  are  among 
the  beneficiaries  of  that  act  of  faith  and  humility. 

A  DIVINE  NECESSITY 

Never,  since  this  Church  was  organized,  has  it  been  without  a 
divinely  inspired  Priesthood,  with  seers,  prophets  and  revelators  at 
its  head  ;  and  it  never  will  be  without  them.  They  are  a  divine  necessity. 
Wanting  such  guides,  such  pilots,  inspired  from  above,  we  would  be 
floundering  in  the  same  troubled  sea  of  doubt  and  uncertainty  respect- 
ing religion,  its  sacred  obligations  and  its  vital  problems,  as  are  the 
peoples  of  the  world  around  us.  Without  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
to  interpret  the  Scriptures  and  make  manifest  the  things  of  God,  we 
also  would  be  putting  our  own  private  interpretations  upon  the  revela- 
tions of  divine  truth,  and  be  lost  and  wandering,  as  others  are,  in  a  maze 
of  superstition  and  error. 

LONGING  FOR  LIGHT 

The  churches  of  men  are  built  upon  books  and  traditions,  handed 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


47 


down  from  the  dubious  past — what  God  said  to  other  peoples  in  other 
times,  under  circumstances  vastly  different  from  our  own.  And  mixed 
with  these  things  are  other  things  that  God  is  said  to  have  said — but 
never  did  say — and  they  are  palmed  upon  the  world  as  utterances  of 
divine  authority.  In  many  lands  God's  children,  millions  of  them,  are 
yearning  and  longing  for  the  Light,  hungering  and  thirsting  for  pure 
Gospel  truth,  which  they  find  not  in  man-made  religions  and  philoso- 
phies ;  and  blind  leaders  of  the  blind,  turning  their  backs  upon  New 
Revelation,  are  endeavoring  to  feed  a  spiritually  starving  world  with 
the  mutilated  menu  card  of  a  banquet  ages  old. 

POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

No  book,  however  good ;  no  tradition,  however  venerable,  is  a 
sufficient  guide  for  a  progressive  people  on  their  way  to  the  Celestial 
Kingdom.  We  have  something  better  than  books — far  better  than 
the  best  of  them.  We  have  divine  authority,  which  constitutes  the 
men  holding  it  agents  and  representatives  of  the  Almighty ;  and  what- 
soever they  do  by  virtue  of  that  authority,  and  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  spirit  of  their  holy  calling,  is  just  as  valid  and  binding  and 
just  as  acceptable  to  God,  as  though  he  were  present  in  person  saying 
and  doing  what  his  servants  say  and  do  for  him.  That  is  what  it  means 
to  bear  the  Priesthood. 

THE  PURE  FAITH 

We  have  the  pure,  primitive  Christian  Faith,  and  the  spirit  that 
interprets  its  sacred  mysteries.  Without  that  Spirit  no  man,  whatever 
his  intelligence,  whatever  his  education  and  culture,  can  comprehend 
the  Gospel  or  know  Him  whom  to  know  is  life  eternal. 

god's  work  and  glory 

This  Church  is  not  the  work  of  man.  Had  it  been  man's  creation 
it  would  have  succumbed  long  ago  to  the  assaults  made  upon  it  by  the 
adversary  of  souls.  It  is  not  built  upon  the  sand  of  ancient  tradition 
or  of  modern  theorization.  It  is  founded  upon  the  rock — Divine  Revela- 
tion— God's  gracious  will  and  the  glad  consent  of  his  people.  There- 
fore is  it  destined  to  endure  and  to  withstand  every  shock.  The  hosts 
of  evil  may  hurl  themselves  against  it,  but  they  cannot  prevail  against 
it,  nor  shake  the  firm  foundation  upon  which  it  stands  as  immovable 
and  immutable  as  the  throne  of  Him  who  sitteth  in  the  midst  of  Eternity, 
and.  who  has  said  in  words  that  can  never  die :  "My  work  and  my 
glory  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man  !"  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  Christenson. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  4,  1930,  at 
10  o'clock,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

As  an  opening  number  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come.  Ye  Saints." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  I.  Stoddard,  President  of  the 
Union  Stake. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?" 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Ninety-nine  years  ago,  about  a  year  after  the  Church  was  organized, 
among  other  instructions  that  the  Lord  gave  to  his  prophet  for  the 
guidance  and  comfort  of  the  Church,  were  these  words,  found  in  the 
sixty-fourth  Section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Wherefore,  be  not  weary  in  well-doing,  for  ye  are  laying  the  foundation 
of  a  great  work.    And  out  of  small  things  proceedeth  that  which  is  great." 

THE  FOUNDATION  OF  A  GREAT  WORK 

Later  in  the  same  revelation : 

"For,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  Zion  shall  flourish,  and  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  upon  her. 

"And  she  shall  be  an  ensign  unto  the  people,  and  there  shall  come  unto  her 
out  of  every -nation  under  heaven. 

"And  the  day  shall  come  when  the  nations  of  the  earth  shall  tremble  because 
of  her,  and  shall  fear  because  of  her  terrible  ones.    The  Lord  hath  spoken  it." 

As  we  listened  to  the  review,  as  given  by  the  President  yesterday 
morning,  of  the  changed  conditions  that  have  occurred  in  the  attitude 
of  the  world  toward  the  Church,  and  as  we  see  the  hundred  years  of 
progress  that  has  been  made,  we  have  every  reason  to  believe  that  the 
Lord  is  fulfilling  these  wonderful  promises  ;  that  insignificant  as  was  the 
beginning,  those  words  of  promise  are  fulfilled;  that  they  were  laying 
the  foundation  of  a  mighty  work,  and  that  out  of  small  things  great 
things  will  proceed.  Evidence  of  that  is  clearly  shown  in  the-  ac- 
complishments of  the  past. 

AN   ENSIGN   UNTO  THE  PEOPLE 

But  this  promise  goes  farther  than  the  foundation — it  extends  into 
the  future,  for  "Zion  shall  arise  and  flourish,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  upon  her;  and  people  shall  come  from  every  nation."  They 
have  come  from  every  nation.  How  could  the  prophet  know,  except 
he  were  inspired  of  the  Lord,  that  this  gospel  message  would  touch 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


49 


the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  in  all  nations?  They  have  fulfilled 
that  prediction,  and  here  they  are  assembled ;  and  now  comes  a  new 
charge  to  the  Church :  This  Church  "shall  be  an  ensign  unto  the  people." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  we  look  at  the  future  there  seems 
very  clearly,  to  me,  in  the  Lord's  program  a  definite  purpose,  that  his 
work  shall  arise  and  shine.  This  is  an  age  that  is  full  of  theories. 
Many  churches  have  solutions  for  the  present  problems.  There  are 
many  societies  and  organizations  being  promoted  in  the  world  for  the 
solution  of  our  present  troubles  among  the  nations,  and  dealing  with 
individuals. 

TRUE  CHRISTIANITY"' S  OPPORTUNITY 

It  does  seem  to  me  that  after  these  many  years  we  have  come 
to  the  place  where  we  have  an  opportunity  to  be  heard,  and  the  world 
is  willing  to  listen,  and  prejudice  is  so  far  removed  that  they  are 
willing  to  give  credit  where  credit  is  due.  We  have  been  more  or  less 
contending,  for  these  hundred  years,  for  the  right  to  exist,  to  be  heard 
and  understood,  and  yet  we  have  been  drilling ;  we  have  been  rehearsing. 
We  are  ready  to  come  on  the  scene  in  a  great  drama,  to  demonstrate 
before  the  world  that  there  is  virility  and  strength  and  power  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  solve  the  problems  of  the  world. 

For  all  these  centuries  Christianity  has  been  in  the  world,  and 
has  been  helpless,  very  largely,  to  solve  these  problems,  until  the  skeptic 
has  concluded  there  is  no  power  in  Christianity,  there  is  no  virtue  in 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  to  solve  these  difficult  problems  that  bring  war 
and  bloodshed  and  wickedness  among  men. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  recognize  that  there  has  been,  during  all 
these  ages,  some  little  truth,  and  many  honest  souls  have  struggled 
towards  the  light ;  but  the  world  has  been  in  a  state  of  apostasy.  The 
power  of  the  Gospel  has  not  been  among  men.  The  form  of  it,  yes. 
So  that  true  Christianity  has  not  had  a  real  test.  It  has  not  had  a 
chance  to  demonstrate  what  it  really  could  and  will  do. 

POWER  TO  SOLVE  THE  WORLD'S  PROBLEMS 

This  Church  was  established  for  the  express  purpose  of  proving 
to  the  world  that  there  is  power  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  power 
to  solve  the  problems  of  the  world,  power  to  change  the  hearts  of  men, 
and  bring  to  a  distressed  world  its  golden  age,  its  peace,  its  prosperity, 
and  its  happiness.  The  dream  that  Daniel  saw  is  to  be  realized,  when 
the  God  of  heaven  is  to  establish  a  work  that  shall  stand  forever  and 
fill  the  whole  earth. 

The  prediction  of  the  modern  prophets  has  been  to  the  effect  that 
this  was  but  the  beginning  of  that  great  movement,  and  now  that  we 
are  being  given  the  opportunity  to  be  heard,  now  is  the  time  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  rally  to  their  standards,  and  demonstrate  to  a 
world  that  is  in  doubt  and  uncertainty,  and  full  of  skepticism,  that 
there  is  power  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  change  the  hearts  and 
the  lives  of  men,  and  to  influence  the  destinies  of  the  nations  towards 
that  dream  tof  the  prophets  of  the  past  that  a  golden  age  would  come, 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


when  all  the  distresses  that  have  afflicted  men  would  pass,  and  universal 
brotherhood  would  come,  and  peace  be  in  the  world. 

Let  me  just  touch  one  or  two  of  the  problems  that  this  Gospel  is 
solving  and  can  solve — setting  a  pattern  for  the  world. 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN  FOR  HELPING  THE  POOR 

Here  is  the  problem  of  the  world's  poor.  The  Lord's  plan  for  its 
solution,  without  humiliation  to  the  poor,  and  a  blessing  to  those  who 
offer  relief — the  fast  offerings  given  by  the  membership  of  the  Church 
once  a  month,  following  abstinence  from  food  for  two  meals.  Fasting  is 
a  blessing  in  itself  to  the  physical  being,  and  a  blessing  to  the  spiritual 
being,  because  it  tends,  in  its  very  nature,  to  give  spiritual  control  oyer 
the  physical  being.  Gratitude  for  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  providing 
food  and  life  comes  from  that  fast,  also  sympathy  for  the  poor  who  are 
without  food,  and  then  too  we  are  giving  that  which  has  been  saved. 

I  know  that  there  are  many  who  do  not  seem  to  clearly  understand 
what  ought  to  be  given — the  equivalent  of  the  meals  saved.  I  should 
say  that  certainly  ten  cents  a  meal  would  be  the  minimum,  or  twenty 
cents  per  individual,  per  month.  I  wish  that  were  the  standard  main- 
tained by  the  membership  of  the  Church.  It  is  not  up  to  that  point, 
but  even  as  well  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  performing  that  service, 
it  is  creating  a  large  fund,  and  if  we  would  observe  it  strictly  it  would 
create  ample  funds  to  care  for  the  needs  of  the  poor,  and  industrialize 
them. 

The  method  of  the  Lord's  plan  is  excellent,  the  giving  to  the  bishop, 
who  distributes  to  the  poor.  It  is  not  my  business  to  give  to  the  poor.  It 
is  the  business,  in  the  Lord's  Church,  of  the  bishop  to  give.  I  give  to 
the  bishop,  and  he  dispenses  to  the  poor.  Those  who  receive  it  do  not 
know  from  whence  it  comes,  and  those  who  give  it  do  not  know  to 
whom  it  goes.  That  is  not  letting  your  right  hand  know  what  your  left 
hand  is  doing.  I  know  of  no  other  scheme  by  which  the  Lord's  plan 
could  be  carried  out  better  than  that  established  in  this  Church.  This 
plan  would  perpetually  solve  the  problem  of  the  poor,  and  I  say  in- 
dustrialize them  and  make  them  independent  economically. 

The  Lord's  plan  does  not  contemplate  the  pauperization  of  the 
poor.  I  remember  my  father  being  a  bishop  for  forty  years,  and  it  was 
my  privilege,  as  a  boy,  to  carry  the  charities  to  the  poor  of, that  ward. 
I  was  impressed,  when  I  went  to  the  home  of  a  widow  who  needed 
help,  and  found  her  knitting  stockings  ;  and  when  I  went  to  a  poor  man 
who  needed  help,  I  discovered  he  was  cutting  the  widow's  wood,  while 
she  knitted  stockings  for  the  poor  man  who  needed  help.  Everybody 
was  encouraged  to  do  something  to  help  somebody  else,  even  though 
they  received  charities. 

I  am  told  that  on  the  tithing  yard  here  east  of  us,  when  there 
wasn't  work  for  worthy  poor,  there  was  a  pile  of  rocks  in  one  corner 
of  that  yard,  that  the  worker  that  wanted  a  job  was  set  to  carry  into 
another  corner  of  the  yard,  and  he  received  his  pay  at  the  end  of  the  day. 
If  on  the  following  day  there  was  a  worthy  applicant,  but  no  work  for 
hitn,  he  might  be  given  the  task  of  carrying  the  rocks  back  into  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


51 


original  corner,  and  he  came  to  get  his  pay  at  night  with  the  feeling  that 
he  had  earned  it. 

That  is  the  spirit  of  industrialization  among  the  poor  of  the  Church 
that  has  been  with  us  from  the  beginning,  and  is  to  be  carried  on. 

A  SOLUTION  FOR  CAPITAL  AND  LABOR  PROBLEMS 

The  problem  that  exists  in  the  world  between  capital  and  labor 
can  be  solved  in  the  Lord's  plan  of  tithing.  The  struggle  for  the 
maintenance  of  one  class  over  another  is  not  the  Lord's  way  of  solving 
this  problem.  Let  me  read  to  you,  from  the  fifty-sixth  Section  of  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  what  the  Lord  himself  has  to  say 
upon  this  subject : 

"Woe  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor,  for 
your  riches  will  canker  your  souls ;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation  in  the 
day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation — the  harvest  is  past,  the 
summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved ! 

"Woe  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits  are  not 
contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are  not  stayed 
from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of  greediness,  who 
will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands ! 

"But  blessed  are  the  poor" — yes,  and  the  Lord  could  have  added,  blessed 
are  the  rich — '"whose  hearts  arc  broken,  and  whose  spirits  are  contrite,  for  they 
shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  coming  in  power  and  great  glory  unto  their 
deliverance." 

The  deliverance  of  the  poor  shall  not  be  through  any  legislation. 
It  will  come  through  the  Lord's  plan,  for  they  shall  see  the  power  of 
God  coming  in  glory  unto  their  deliverance,  for  the  fatness  of  the  earth 
shall  be  theirs. 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  his  recompense  shall  be  with  him, 
and  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice. 

"And  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth  from  generation  to  generation, 
forever  and  ever." 

That  is  the  plan  that  will  succeed.  Neither  in  the  control  of  the 
affairs  of  the  iworld  by  the  rich,  nor  by  the  poor  as  in  Russia ;  neither 
element  will  succeed,  from  its  own  selfish  point  of  view,  but  they  must 
be  brought  together  in  the  spirit  of  brotherhood,  in  the  spirit  of  union 
of  interest,  and  that  will  never  be  accomplished,  only  under  the  Lord's 
plan.  Tithing  is  the  first  step  toward  that  plan,  where  both  the  rich 
and  the  poor  contribute  according  to  their  means,  for  the  common 
welfare  of  each.  There  is  no  pew  in  this  Church  for  the  rich  to  sit  in,  and 
denied  to  the  poor ;  no  blessings  extended  to  the  wealthy  in  the  temples 
of  God,  and  denied  to  the  poor.  They  share  alike,  and  the  rich  man 
gets  no  more  than  the  poor  man.  Tithing  the  Lord  designated  as  a 
schoolmaster  in  this  Church  to  bring  us  to  the  more  perfect  order  of 
things  that  obtained  in  the  days  of  Enoch,  and  every  man  that  will  come 
into  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God  will  have  to  learn  the  lesson,  to  live 
not  only  under  the  schoolmaster,  but  ultimately  to  come  to  the  United 
Order,  or  the  Order  of  Enoch,  wherein  there  shall  be  community  of 
interest,  and  yet  individual  responsibility  and  opportunity,  but  such 


52 


GENERAL  ,  CONFERENCE 


combination  as  will  eliminate  jealousy  and  hatred  and  envy  in  the  hearts 
of  men. 

This  Church  is  a  hundred  years  nearer  the  solution  of  that  problem 
than  any  other  community  in  the  world,  and  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  rally  to  the  law  of  tithing  and  be  prepared  in  time  to  demonstrate 
before  the  world  the  real  genuine  solution  of  this  question. 

A  STANDARD  FOR  THE  PERFECTION  OF  MEN'S  LIVES 

So  with  the  Wlord  of  Wisdom,  dealing  with  the  perfection  of 
men's  lives  by  living  up  to  a  Gospel  standard.  Oh,  it  may  be  true 
that  we  do  not  maintain  the  prohibition  law  that  has  been  enacted 
into  the  Constitution,  but  I  hope  it  shall  be  preserved.  If  we  abandon 
it  we  shall  see  worse  times  than  we  are  seeing  today.  I  believe  that 
if  this  nation  could  persevere  under  the  prohibition  law  for  twenty-fjve 
years,  we  would  raise  a  generation  of  men  and  women  that  would 
easily  subscribe  to  that  law,  and  that  problem  would  be  solved.  But 
if  this  nation  is  not  able  to  do  that,  and  shall  return  to  the  old  con- 
ditions, what  of  us? 

The  Lord  gave  to  this  Church  a  plan  that  will  succeed  when  all 
the  schemes  of  men  shall  fail.  I  recognize  that  you  cannot  legislate  men 
into  righteous  living.  That  must  come  from  the  heart.  Our  plan 
contemplates  the  conversion  of  the  hearts  of  men  to  an  obedience  to 
the  Lord's  plan,  and  to  the  strict  observance  of  that  revelation  that 
enjoins  upon  us  the  obligation  not  only  to  refrain  from  the  use  of 
liquor,  but  from  tea  and  coffee  and  tobacco,  that  are  injurious  to  the 
physical  being. 

The  Lord  knew  the  needs  of  this  fast-moving  age,  that  we  need 
the  power  that  comes  from  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  we  shall 
endure  under  these  strenuous  conditions  that  are  around  us.  Now 
is  the  opportunity  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  rally  to  that  standard, 
and  demonstrate,  though  the  world  may  fail,  through  its  legislation 
to  correct  this  evil,  that  we  will  correct  it  by  the  conversion  of  men,  and 
demonstrate  the  way  for  the  world  to  follow  after  in  the  solution  of 
that  problem. 

FOR  THE   ESTABLISHING   OF  PEACE 

So  with  all  the  other  problems.  In  this  Gospel  is  the  plan  and  the 
way  by  which  peace  can  come,  and  war  be  abolished.  If  every 
person  in  the  world  had  in  his  heart  today  the  spirit  that  is  in 
the  hearts  of  these  Latter-day  Saints,  you  would  not  need  a  League 
of  Nations,  you  would  not  need  a  court  to  limit  armaments.  It  would 
be  solved,  because  into  the  hearts  of  these  Latter-day  Saints  has  come 
the  power  of  God,  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  takes 
envy  and  malice  and  hatred  out  of  the  heart,  and  puts  the  love  of 
men  there.  You  could  not  think  of  one  stake  of  Zion  going  to  war 
with  another.  No.  Although  they  come  from  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
the  men  of  all  nations  live  here  in  peace  and  in  love.  If  that  spirit 
could  be  extended  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  our  problems  would  be  solved. 

Now  is  the  opportunity  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  arise  and  shine. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


53 


As  we  enter  into  this  second  great  period  of  the  Church's  history  an 
opportunity  comes  to  us,  since  we  have  the  stage,  and  since  the  people 
of  the  world  are  willing  to  listen  and  give  credit.  Now  is  the  time  for 
us  to  rally  to  our  standards  and  demonstrate  the  power  there  is  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

God  help  us  to  see  our  opportunity  and  embrace  it,  and  carry  for- 
ward gloriously  the  Lord's  purposes,  until  his  work  shall  be  consum- 
mated and  become  the  glory  of  the  earth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Anticipating  an  invitation  to  speak  during  this  Conference,  and 
realizing  that  the  speakers  would  be  heard  by  a  large  number  of  people 
outside  of  this  building,  I  prepared  some  notes  that  I  might  speak  from, 
but  I  don't  know  that  I  shall  use  them. 

GRATITUDE  FOE  BLESSINGS  OF  LORD 

I  want  to  say  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  that  I  am  very  happy 
in  my  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  in  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  which  I  enjoy  in  common  with  you. 
I  am  happy  in  your  fellowship  and  association,  and  in  the  work  that 
I  have  been  honored  to  do  in  this  Church. 

The  Lord  has  been  good  to  us  as  a  people,  and  he  has  been  good 
to  me  as  an  individual.  As  I  look  back  over  my  life  and  its  experiences, 
I  can  see  where  the  Lord  has  held  me  by  the  hand,  as  it  were,  and  led 
me  along  the  path  of  duty,  shielding  me  from  evil  and  wickedness 
that  I  might  have  indulged  in  to  my  everlasting  sorrow  and  condem- 
nation. I  feel  that  it  is  as  little  as  I  can  do  to  seek  to  know  what  the 
will  of  my  Father  in  heaven  is  concerning  me,  and  to>  do  his  will  to  the 
best  of  my  ability.  I  believe  that  every  member  of  this  Church  should 
feel  the  same.  If  we  turn  our  thoughts  back  over  our  past  lives,  I 
feel  sure  that  all  of  us  will  have  occasion  to  rejoice  in  the  fatherly 
care  that  has  been  given  us,  and  the  many  blessings  that  have  been 
showered  upon  us. 

TESTIMONY  REGARDING  THIS  WORK 

I  have  passed  the  period  of  question  or  doubt,  which  comes  into 
the  lives  of  many  people,  and  I  do  know  of  a  surety,  and  have  proven 
over  and  over  again  from  the  scriptures  and  by  the  application  of 
reason  and  good  sense,  to  my  perfect  satisfaction,  that  this  work  is 
true,  so  that  I  have  no  fear  of  any  man  being  able  to  disprove  it. 
I  have  lived  the  Gospel,  in  part,  at  least,  so  as  to  have  the  witness 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  I  do  know,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  the  Redeemer 
and  'Savior  of  this  world. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  know  that  our  Father  in  heaven  lives,  a  glorified  and  immortal 
being,  with  all  power — power  to  bless  and  power  to  save.  And  I 
know  that  this  work  is  true,  that  in  it  is  the  saving  power  of  God  to 
those  who  will  accept  and  obey  it.  I  know,  by  sense  of  reason,  that 
he  who  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  restoring  this  Gospel 
to  earth,  must  have  been  and  is  a  prophet  of  God. 

NOT  ACCEPTED   IN  THEIR  OWN  DAY 

It  is  hard  for  the  people  of  this  day  and  time  to  accept  Joseph 
Smith  as  a  Prophet  of  God.  It  was  ever  so  that  the  prophets  were 
not  generally  accepted  by  the  people  of  their  time.  The  Scriptures 
relate  that  when  Jesus  was  preaching  in  the  synagogue  in  his  own 
country,  the  people  were  astonished,  and  said : 

"Whence  hath  this  man  this  wisdom,  and  these  mighty  works? 

"Is  not  this  the  carpenter's  son?  is  not  his  mother  called  Mary?  and  his 
brethren,  James  and  Joses,  and  Simon,  and  Judas  ? 

"And  his  sisters,  are  they  not  all  with  us?  Whence  then  hath  this  man 
all  these  things? 

"And  they  were  offended  in  him.  But  Jesus  said  unto  them,  A  prophet  is 
not  without  honor,  save  in  his  own  country,  and  in  his  own  house. 

I  have  often  wished  that  he  had  added,  which  I  think  he  could 
have  done  with  equal  truth,  "save  in  the  day  and  time  in  which  he  lived." 

"And  he  did  not  many  mighty  works  there  because  of  their  unbelief."  (Matt. 
13:54-58.) 

I  firmly  believe  that  the  time  will  come  when  all  men,  as  universally 
as  they  accept  Jesus  Christ  to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world,  will  acknowl- 
edge Joseph  Smith  to  have  been  a  great  prophet  of  God  in  these  last 
days,  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  that  which  I  feel  and  know  to  be  true,  I 
believe  that  you,  also,  who  are  living  your  religion,  feel  and  know  to 
be  true,  by  the  same  means. 

THE  FAITH  OF  OUR  FATHERS 

An  impressive  thought  came  to  me  this  morning  while  we  were 
singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

"We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 

Far  away  in  the  West ; 
Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make  afraid — 
There  the  Saints  will  be  blessed.  *  *  * 

"And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day !  all  is  well ! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too; 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell." 

These  words  express  the  feeling  of  our  pioneer  fathers  and 
mothers  in  their  deep  trial  when  their  faces  were  turned,  as  it  were, 
from  civilization  toward  the  great  unexplored  West,  bringing  with 
them  practically  nothing  but  the  Gospel,  which  was  the  dearest  thing 
they  had  on  earth ;  and  with  the  hope  that  the  Lord  would  inspire  his 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  S5 

leaders  that  they  might  find  a  place  of  refuge,  safety  and  liberty, 
where  they  could  worship  the  Lord  according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
consciences.  They  endured  much  sorrow  and  tribulation,  and  many 
died  in  the  effort  to  make  for  us  what  we  have  here  today. 

OUR  OBLIGATION 

.We  are  their  successors  in  this  work.  We  have  inherited  the 
blessings  that  they  finally  were  able  to  enjoy.  We  are  indebted  to  this 
work  for  all  that  we  have,  all  that  we  hope  to  obtain.  Are  we  going 
to  carry  on  the  work  as  faithfully  and  devotedly  as  did  our  pioneer 
parents,  or  are  we  lying  down  on  the  job?  Are  we  fainting  by  the 
way?  Or  are  we  living  our  religion,  and  by  so  doing  setting  an 
example  to  the  world  worthy  of  their  emulation,  such  as  will  cause 
them  to  glorify  our  Father  in  heaven  by  an  investigation  of  that  which 
has  made  us  what  we  are,  that  is  commendable,  and  perchance,  by 
their  embracing  the  Gospel  and  engaging  with  us  in  the  furtherance  of 
the  Lord's  work? 

Do  we  ever  consider  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  our  fellow 
men,  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  the  Church,  as  well  as  to  our- 
selves? Do  we  consider  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  our  fathers 
and  our  mothers,  who  have  suffered  and  endured  so  much  for  us? 
If  we  will  not  live  our  religion  for  our  own  soul's  salvation,  then 
we  ought  to  do  so  for  the  sake  of  others,  including  our  children,  and 
our  children's  children  who  are  coming  after  us. 

PERTAINING  TO  OUR  KINDRED  DEAD 

We  have  a  responsibility  pertaining  to  our  kindred  dead.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  tells  us,  and  it  is  on  record,  that  the  greatest  responsi- 
bility that  God  has  laid  upon  us  is  that  of  looking  after  our  kindred 
dead.  Until  the  Church  was  organized,  and  there  were  temples  built, 
and  an  opportunity  for  the  living  to  do  something  for  the  dead,  there 
seemed  to  be  no  occasion  for  our  forebears  to  look  to  us.  There  was 
nothing  we  could  do  for  them.  But  with  the  introduction  of  the 
Gospel,  and  the  building  of  temples,  the  Lord  sent  his  servant,  Elijah, 
as  predicted  by  Malachi  he  would  do,  who  conferred  the  keys  upon 
Joseph  and  Oliver  of  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers.  From  that 
day,  the  3rd  of  April,  1836,  when  in  the  Kirtland  temple  that  wonderful 
manifestation  was  had,  there  has  been  a  spirit  and  a  desire  among  the 
children  of  men  on  the  earth,  not  only  those  in  the  Church,  but  those 
outside  as  well,  to  know  of  their  kindred  dead.  Men  and  women  of 
education  and  wealth  are  expending  their  fortunes  and  their  time  in  the 
search  for  knowledge  of  a  genealogical  character,  and  in  the  printing  of 
histories  of  their  families.  Governments  have  made  provision  for  the 
keeping  of  records,  just  such  statistics  as  we  need  in  order  to  perform 
this  temple  work  for  our  dead.  Genealogical  libraries  have  been  estab- 
lished all  through  the  land,  and  these  family  histories,  and  other  gen- 
ealogical information,  are  accessible  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Lord  is  using  those  who  are  not  of  us  in  the  furtherance  of 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  purposes  and  in  helping  us,  that  we  may  more  fully  do  our  duty 
by  our  kindred  dead. 

SERVING  A  TWO-FOLD  PURPOSE 

Are  we  making  use  of  this  information,  and  are  we  going  into 
the  temples  of  the  Lord  to  do  this  work?  Or  if  we  are  not  able  our- 
selves to  go,  are  we  expending  some  of  our  means  in  the  employment 
of  others  to  go  through  the  temple  for  our  dead? 

All  the  ordinances  administered  in  the  temples  are  performed  with- 
out any  charge  to  the  individual.  Those  who  come  there  can  attend  to 
those  labors  without  any  charge  whatever.  If  you  cannot  come  it  will 
be  necessary  for  you,  in  the  endowment  work  of  the  temple,  to  have 
some  one  represent  you. 

In  these  temples  we  have  some  of  our  aged  pioneers  who  have 
worn  themselves  out,  as  it  were,  in  helping  to  make  this  country  in- 
habitable, beautiful  and  prosperous  as  we  find  it  today.  Their  bodies 
are  broken  but  their  spirits  are  alive  and  awake  as  much  as  ever,  and 
they  find  in  the  temples  a  work  that  they  can  do  just  as  well  as  can 
younger  people,  who  are  more  vigorous  in  a  physical  way.  Some  of 
these  people  have  nothing  to  live  upon  except  the  mere  pittance  which 
is  given  them  in  compensation  for  the  work  they  do  for  others  in  the 
temples.  If  you  cannot  go  to  the  temple  yourselves,  send  to  the  temple 
a  little  money  with  a  record  of  your  dead  and  these  good  people  will  do 
the  work  for  you,  and  you  will  not  only  be  redeeming  your  kindred 
dead  but  you  will  by  so  doing  be  helping  to  support  the  worthy  poor 
of  the  Church.  We  had  a  letter  come  to  us  a  few  days  ago  from  a  man 
here  in  the  city  who  is  interested  in  genealogical  and  temple  work, 
and  he  suggested  that  in  these  times,  when  there  are  so  many  of  our 
people  out  of  employment,  men  who  are  worthy  to  go  to  the  temple, 
it  would  be  an  opportune  time  to  make  known  to  the  people  of 
this  Church  that  if  they  would  furnish  some  means  now  to  get  their 
temple  work  done,  these  unemployed  people  would  receive  a  great 
blessing  in  being  employed  to  do  that  work.  That,  I  think,  is  a  sug- 
gestion worthy  of  consideration,  as  we  are  looking  about  us  for  some- 
thing to  do  to  alleviate  this  distressing  condition  of  the  unemployed. 

ACCORDING  TO  OUR  KNOWLEDGE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  are  we  living  our  religion  to  the  best  of  our 
knowledge?  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  no  man  can  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  without  knowledge,  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  of  the  way  of  salvation,  and  no  man  can  be  condemned  without 
a  knowledge  of  this  Gospel.  The  Lord  has  made  provision  that  every 
child  of  his  that  comes  to  maturity  in  life  shall  hear  and  have  the 
privilege  of  accepting  the  Gospel  either  here  or  hereafter.  When  the 
ordinance  work  is  done  for  those  who  died  without  a  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel,  it  becomes  effective  for  their  salvation  upon  their  ac- 
ceptance of  it. 

Are  we,  brethren  and  sisters,  who  know  the  truth,  living  according 
to  the  light  which  we  have  received,  so  as  to  not  fall  under  condemna- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


57 


tion?  I  think  I  can  promise  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  truth,  and  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  if  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  will  live  up  to  the 
light  of  the  Gospel  as  you  have  received  it,  you  will  obtain  a  salvation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God.  If  you  shall  be  disappointed  and  condemned 
in  the  end  it  will  be  because  you  have  not  lived  up  to  the  light  and 
knowledge  which  you  have  of  the  Gospel.  I  wonder  if  our  Father  in 
heaven  is  going  to  be  disappointed  in  some  of  us,  his  children,  when 
we  return,  having  had  the  opportunities  the  Gospel  has  afforded  us* 
here  in  life.  I  wonder  if  we  will  be  disappointed  in  ourselves,  if  our 
parents  will  be  disappointed  in  us,  or  our  children  who  come  after  us. 

This  is  something,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  think  we  should 
consider  most  seriously.  Our  time  is  brief  at  longest  here  in  which  to 
prepare  for  the  life  which  is  to  come.  Wle  cannot  afford  to  waste  our 
time.  We  cannot  afford  to  trifle  with  sacred  things  and  sacred  duties. 
The  sin  of  neglect  is  unjustifiable.  "He  that  knoweth  to  do  good 
and  doeth  it  not  is  in  sin  before  the  Lord,  and  he  that  knoweth  to  do 
right  and  doeth  it  not  is  in  sin." 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TO  TEACH  OTHERS 

Our  obligation  is  not  only  to  ourselves  but  to  our  fellow  men  here 
in  the  world.  We  mustn't  overlook  that.  If  we  be  not  called  to  go 
abroad  and  preach  the  Gospel,  there  is  plenty  for  us  to  do  at  home. 
The  spirit  of  this  work  is,  every  man  to  his  neighbor ;  he  that  is  warned, 
to  warn  his  neighbor.  Our  responsibility  to  teach  the  Gospel  to  others 
is  set  forth  in  Ezekiel,  3rd  Chapter,  2'0th  verse: 

"When  a  righteous  man  doth  turn  from  his  righteousness,  and  commit 
iniquity,  and  I  lay  a  stumblingblock  before  him,  he  shall  die:  because  thou  hast 
not  given  him  warning,  he  shall  die  in  his  sin,  and  his  righteousness  which  he 
hath  done  shall  not  be  remembered ;  but  his  blood  will  I  require  at  thine  hand." 

Every  man  and  woman  that  in  sincerity  has  received  the  Gospel 
was  at  the  time  of  entering  the  Church  a  righteous  man  or  woman. 
Have  we  held  them  in  righteousness? 

The  ministry  of  the  Church  at  home  has  a  responsibility  of  com- 
pleting the  conversion  and  holding  these  men  and  women.  Are  we 
doing  it  in  an  organized  way,  as  effectively  as  we  can?  Are  we,  as 
individuals,  doing  our  part  to  our  neighbors  within  the  Church?  If 
we  see  men  and  women  neglecting  their  duties  in  the  Church  and  we 
know  that  they  are  in  danger  of  losing  that  which  would  be  more 
precious  to  them  than  life,  do  we  give  them  a  note  of  warning  in  the 
spirit  of  kindness  and  brotherly  love,  and  reach  out  a  hand  to  help  them, 
and  bring  them  back  and  put  them  in  the  way  of  religious  duty?  Are 
we  doing  our  full  duty  by  our  fellow  men? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  questions  that  we  may  well  ask 
ourselves,  and  then  answer  them  to  our  satisfaction,  by  living  up  to  our 
obligations  and  to  the  light  and  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  which  we 
have. 

We  cannot  accomplish  this  alone,  but  if  we  seek  the  Lord  with 
desire  in  our  hearts  to  live  our  religion,  and  to  do  his  will,  he  will 


58 


GENERAL  i  CONFERENCE 


help  us  so  that  we  will  be  able  to  come  off  victorious,  conquerors  of 
ourselves,  conquerors  of  evil,  devoted  adherents  and  advocates  of  the 
truth  of  God.  May  he  so  bless  us  and  save  us  in  his  kingdom,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant  the  congregation  arose  and 
sang,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  intend  to  be  reminiscent  in  what  I  shall  say  on  this  occasion. 

I  have  frequently  called  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  under 
President  John  Taylor  I  was  permitted  to  fill  a  mission  in  the  Southern 
States,  in  1883  and  '84,  under  the  presidency  of  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 
They  were  trying  times,  and  the  elders,  as  a  whole,  traveled  without 
purse  and  without  scrip. 

In  1892  I  was  again  appointed,  under  President  Wilford  Woodruff, 
to  preside  over  the  Southern  States  Mission.  It  was  during  that  period 
of  time  that  I  found  God;  as  my  father  said:  God  answered  my  prayers, 
and  isn't  that  a  pretty  good  evidence  that  God  lives?  My  testimony 
was  fixed  and  fast,  and  what  I  knew  I  learned  by  obedience  and  through 
suffering. 

I  take  the  position  that  knowledge  cannot  be  knowledge  without 
experience,  so  that  what  I  know  through  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Ghost — for  I  have  heard  that  still,  small  voice — I  know  to  my  perfect 
satisfaction.  There  is  no  question  of  a  doubt  in  my  mind  as  to  the 
truth  of  this  work,  and  any  time  in  my  life  that  I  can  be  convinced  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  not  a  prophet  of  God,  then  I  will  question  the  truth 
of  this  work.  But  Joseph  Smith  to  me  is  a  prophet,  and  there  is  hardly 
a  Kimball  living  in  the  flesh  today — of  the  first  generation — notwith- 
standing we  were  very  young  when  our  father  died,  that  did  not  have 
burned  into  his  soul  as  a  child  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God:  that  Brigham  Young  was  his  successor;  that  he  too  was 
a  great  prophet. 

Now,  it  is  along  that  line  that  I  desire  to  occupy  your  time  for  a 
few  moments,  and  to  do  so  I  expect  to  forecast  from  dead  prophets. 
I  shall  not  undertake  to  quote  from  memory  as  it  is  very  difficult 
for  me  to  quote  correctly. 

The  prophet  Joel  said — we  elders  in  that  day  on  many  occasions 
quoted  this  prophetic  saying: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward  that  I  will  pour  out  ray  Spirit  upon  all 
flesh ;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy ;  your  old  men  shall 
dream  dreams ;  your  young  men  shall  see  visions." 

I  think  one  of  the  greatest  pieces  of  philosophy  in  the  Bible  is: 
"Where  there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish."  And  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  left  with  us  this  statement :  "Where  there  are  no  gifts  there  is 
no  faith." 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  59 
I  further  read  in  the  Bible  : 

"When  a  prophet  speaks  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  if  the  thing  follow  not 
nor  come  to  pass,  that  is  the  thing  which  the  Lord  hath  not  spoken ;  but  the 
prophet  has  spoken  presumptuously,  Thou  shalt  not  be  afraid  of  him." 

Jesus  himself  testified  that  "a  prophet  hath  no  honor  in  his  own 
country." 

I  claim  not  to  be  a  prophet,  but  I  am  a  son  of  a  prophet,  and  I 
expect  to  give  you  evidence — whether  you  question  the  truth  of  it  or 
not — that  shall  be  left  with  you — that  Heber  C.  Kimball  was  a  prophet 
of  God.  President  Brigham  Young  on  more  than  one  occasion  said : 
"Heber  is  my  prophet,  and  I  love  to  hear  him  prophesy." 

In  May,  1868 — that  is  sixty-two  years  ago — he  said: 

"After  a  while  the  gentiles  will  gather  in  Salt  Lake  City  by  the  thousands, 
and  this  will  be  among  the  wicked  cities  of  the  world,." 

He  said : 

"A  spirit  of  speculation  and  extravagance  will  take  possession  of  the  Saints, 
and  the  results  will  be  financial  bondage." 

He  said : 

"An  army  of  elders  will  be  sent  to  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth,  to  search 
out  the  righteous  and  warn  the  wicked  of  coming  events. 

"All  kinds  of  religions  will  be  started,  and  miracles  performed  that  will 
deceive  the  very  elect,  if  such  a  thing  were  possible. 

"Persecution  comes  next,  and  all  Latter-day  Saints  will  be  tested  to  the 
limit. 

"Many  will  apostatize,  and  others  will  stand  still,  not  knowing  what  to  do. 

"Before  the  temple  reaches  the  square  our  brethren  will  be  imprisoned,  until 
the  penitentiary  shall  be  full,  and  some  of  them  will  be  removed  to  other 
penitentiaries. 

"Mothers  would  weep  for  their  husbands,  and  children  would  cry  for  their 
fathers.  Some  would  die,  and  sorrow  would  fill  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"When  the  temple  roof  is  on,  the  persecution  will  lessen,  but  when  the 
temple  is  completed  the  power  of  the  Evil  One  will  be  shut  out." 

"The  prayers  of  the  Saints  will  then  be  heard.  The  sick  will  be  taken  there 
and  healed." 

"The  Spirit  of  God  will  rest  upon  the  people,  and  work  for  the  dead  will  be 
continued  night  and  day." 

"The  judgments  of  God  will  be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked,  to  the  extent 
that  our  elders  from  far  and  near  will  be  called  home ;  or  in  other  words,  the 
Gospel  will  be  taken  from  the  gentiles,  and  later  on  will  be  carried  to  the  Jews." 

"The  western  boundaries  of  the  State  of  Missouri  will  be  swept  so  clean  of 
its  inhabitants  that  as  President  Young  tells  us,  'when  we  return  to  that  place 
there  will  not  be  as  much  as  a  yellow  dog  to  wag  his  tail.' 

"Before  that  day  comes,  however,  the  Saints  will  be  put  to  the  test  that 
will  try  the  very  best  of  them. 

"The  pressure  will  become  so  great  that  the  righteous  among  us  will  cry 
unto  the  Lord  day  and  night  until  deliverance  comes." 

In  1856— that  is  seventy-four  years  ago — a  small  group  of  friends 
convened  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  called  the  Endowment  House.  The 
conversation  was  about  the  isolated  condition  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Yes,"  said  Brother  Heber,  "we  think  we  are  secure  here  in  the  chambers  of 
these  everlasting  hills,  where  we  can  close  the  doors  of  the  canyons  against  mobs 
and  persecutors,  the  wicked  and  the  vile,  who  have  always  beset  us  with  violence 
and  robbery,  but  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren,  the  time  is  coming  when 
we  will  be  mixed  up  in  these  now  peaceful  valleys  to  that  extent  that  it  will  be 
difficult  to  tell  the  face  of  a  Saint  from  the  face  of  an  enemy  against  the  people 
of  God." 

"Then  is  the  time  to  look  out  for  the  great  sieve,  for  there  will  be  a  great 
sifting  time,  and  many  will  fall. 

"For  I  say  unto  you  there  is  a  test,  a  Test,  a  TEST  coming." 

He  further  said: 

'This  Church  has  before  it  many  close  places  through  which  it  will  have  to 
pass  before  the  work  of  God  is  crowned  with  glory. 

"The  difficulties  will  be  of  such  a  character  that  the  man  or  woman  who 
does  not  possess  a  personal  knowledge  or  witness  will  fall.  If  you  have  not 
got  this  testimony,  you  must  live  right  and  call  upon  the  Lord,  and  cease  not 
until  you  obtain  it. 

"Remember  these  sayings :  The  time  will  come  when  no  man  or  woman  will 
be  able  to  endure  on  borrowed  light.  Each  will  have  to  be  guided  by  the  light 
within  themselves.  If  you  do  not  have  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
how  can  you  stand?" 

Do  you  believe  it? 

President  George  Q.  Cannon  said,  after  Heber  C.  Kimball's  death : 

"Heber  Chase  Kimball  was  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  this  age." 

He  continued :  "No  man,  perhaps,  Joseph  Smith  excepted,  who  has 
belonged  to  the  Church  in  this  generation,  ever  possessed  the  gift  of 
prophecy  to  a  greater  degree  than  he." 

On  the  morning  of  the  22nd  of  June,  1868,  he  died. 

At  the  funeral  President  Brigham  Young  said:  "Heber  was  a 
man  of  as  much  integrity,  I  presume,  as  any  man  who  ever  lived  on  the 
earth — a  man  of  faith — a  man  of  benevolence — a  man  of  truth." 

On  the  evening  of  January  12th,  1862,  the  Lord  made  it  known  to 
Heber  C.  Kimball  that  he  should  not  be  removed  from  his  place  as 
First  Counselor  while  he  lived  in  the  flesh. 

Now  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  here  to  testify  that  the  spirit 
of  prophecy  is  in  this  Church.  Any  man  who  has  a  testimony  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ  has  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  I  know  that  we  have 
living  prophets.  Whenever  the  Lord  desires,  and  it  is  his  will  to  speak 
through  his  prophets,  I  have  no  fear  and  no  doubt  as  far  as  I  am 
individually  concerned  that  they  have  the  courage  and  the  faith  to  speak 
the  words  of  God.  At  a  time  when  the  people  were  suffering,  when  the 
people  were  almost  naked,  when  everything  looked  desolate,  as  if  they 
were  forsaken — 

"Heber  C.  Kimball,  filled  with  the  spirit  of  prophecy  in  a  public  meeting 
declared  to  the  astonished  congregation  that  within  a  short  time  States  goods 
would  be  sold  in  the  city  of  Great  Salt  Lake  cheaper  than  in  New  York  and 
that  the  people  would  be  abundantly  supplied  with  food  and  clothing." 

"  T  don't  believe  a  word  of  it,'  said  Apostle  Charles  C.  Rich ;  and  he  voiced 
the  sentiment  of  nine-tenths  of  those  who  had  heard  the  astounding  declaration." 

"On  resuming  his  seat  he  remarked  to  the  brethren  that  he  was  afraid  he 
had  missed  it  this  time.  But  they  were  not  his  own  words  and  He  who  had 
inspired  them  knew  how  to  fulfil.    The  occasion  for  the  fulfilment  of  this 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


61 


remarkable  prediction  was  the  unexpected  advent  of  the  gold-hunters  on  their 
way  to  California.  The  discovery  of  gold  in  that  land  had  set  on  fire,  as  it  were, 
the  civilized  world  and  hundreds  of  richly  laden  trains  now  began  pouring  across 
the  continent  on  their  way  to  the  new  Eldorado.  Salt  Lake  valley  became  the 
resting  place.  Thus  as  the  Prophet  Heber  had  predicted,  States  Goods  were 
actually  sold  in  the  streets  of  Great  Salt  Lake  City  cheaper  than  they  could 
have  been  purchased  in  the  city  of  New  York." 

Now,  brethren,  that  is  how  I  feel  about  it.  I  take  pride  in  being 
a  son  of  my  father  and  as  long  as  I  live  I  shall  never  fail  to  honor  my 
father  and  his  successors,  and  try  to  be  as  loyal  and  true  and  steadfast  in 
the  faith  as  they  have  been.  I  am  the  only  one  that  can  destroy  my 
faith  in  this  work.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
After  one  hundred  years,  and  then  what? 

During  the  past  year  we  have  been  dwelling  largely  in  the  past,  and 
it  seems  to  me  that  when  we  look  upon  the  work  of  our  fathers,  our 
mothers,  our  grandfathers  and  grandmothers,  and  view  their  great  ac- 
complishments, there  can  be  no  question  that  this  Church  has  grown 
in  a  wonderful  manner.  No  organization  could  make  such  a  growth 
other  than  through  the  help,  inspiration  and  leadership  of  an  all-wise 
Father.  As  I  view  these  accomplishments  I  wonder  if  we  are  not,  to  a 
certain  extent,  living  now  too  much  in  the  past,  and  not  enough  upon  the 
past,  for  the  experiences  and  accomplishments  of  the  past  should  be  a 
tower  of  strength  to  urge  us  on  to  greater  individual  effort. 

I  heard  a  brother  who  was  preaching  a  sermon  on  tithing  say  that 
his  father  overpaid  his  tithing  and  some  of  his  children  were  drawing 
on  it  to  this  day.  Surely  such  action  cannot  be  considered  as  a  growth. 
How  can  we  use  the  past  to  help  us  build  for  the  future?  Truly  they 
showed  the  way.  Are  we  doing  our  part  to  carry  on?  If  so,  there 
need  be  very  little  concern  for  the  future.  If  we  have  a  clear  picture 
of  the  struggles  of  the  past  one  hundred  years,  and  understand  the 
principles  that  made  it  possible  for  them  to  build  such  a  foundation,  we 
should  go  on  with  a  sincere  desire  to  build  for  our  future  welfare  and 
salvation. 

One  of  the  writers  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us: 

"For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  God ;  yea,  behold 
the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day  for  men  to  perform  their  labors.  And  now,  as 
I  said  unto  you  before,  as  ye  have  had  so  many  witnesses,  therefore,  I  beseech 
of  you  that  ye  do  not  procrastinate  the  day  of  your  repentance  until  the  end ;  for 
after  this  day  of  life,  which  is  given  us  to  prepare  for  eternity,  behold,  if  we 
do  not  improve  our  time  while  in  this  life,  then  cometh  the  night  of  darkness 
wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  performed.  Ye  cannot  say,  when  ye  are  brought 
to  that  awful  crisis,  that  I  will  repent,  that  I  will  return  to  my  God.  Nay,  ye 
cannot  say  this;  for  that  same  spirit  which  doth  possess  your  bodies  at  the  time 
that  ye  go  out  of  this  life,  that  same  spirit  will  have  power  to  possess  your 
body  in  that  eternal  world.    For  behold,  if  ye  have  procrastinated  the  day 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  your  repentance  even  until  death,  behold,  ye  have  become  subjected  to  the 
spirit  of  the  devil,  and  he  doth  seal  you  his ;  therefore,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
hath  withdrawn  from  you,  and  hath  no  place  in  you,  and  the  devil  hath  all 
power  over  you;  and  this  is  the  final  state  of  the  wicked." 

And  so  I  say  we  should  be  gravely  concerned  with  today.  If  so, 
tomorrow  will  take  care  of  itself  ,  and  the  work  entrusted  to  us  will  be 
nobly  done,  and  our  reward  assured. 

Brother  McMurrin  made  a  plea  for  more  missionaries.  Our 
mission  presidents  are  constantly  doing  that.  There  isn't  a  month  that 
their  reports  do  not  contain  pleas  for  more  help.  It  is  marvelous  what 
this  people  are  doing,  many  even  sacrificing  the  comforts  of  life  to 
provide  for  their  children  who  are  engaged  in  missionary  work,  but  how 
many  make  an  equal  effort  to  prepare  them  for  this  service  before  they 
leave  for  the  mission  field.  I  am  sure  better  preparation  which  must 
come  through  active  service  will  go  a  long  way  to  meet  the  demands 
made  upon  us. 

Yesterday,  sitting  in  a  group  in  this  tabernacle,  we  had  eighty- 
seven  young  men  and  women  who  next  week  will  leave  for  the  mission 
field.  They  are  young  and  inexperienced.  They  have  a  testimony  of 
the  Gospel,  but  they  are  not  altogether  sure  of  themselves  at  the  present 
time.  They  are  anxious  to  be  engaged  in  a  good  cause.  Last  night  at 
seven  o'clock  I  met  with  them,  this  being  the  last  period  of  their  day's 
work.  Their  first  class  yesterday  was  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning. 
They  were  excused  at  nine  forty-five  and  came  here  in  a  body  to  attend 
this  Conference.  They  were  here  in  the  afternoon,  and  went  from  that 
meeting  to  another  class ;  had  a  luncheon  period,  and  then  to  another 
class.  At  the  close  of  their  class  at  eight  o'clock  last  night  I  asked 
them  to  select  a  song  to  close,  for  we  always  begin  and  close  our  day's 
work  with  song  and  prayer.  The  song  first  suggested  seemed  to  me, 
for  the  moment,  a  bit  of  irony.  It  was  announced  as  "Do  not  weary- 
by  the  way."  As  we  sang  the  song,  I  stood  facing  that  group.  I 
tried  to  detect  such  a  feeling  on  their  part.  I  found  everyone  singing — 
not  just  the  words,  for  all  were  singing  as  we  can  sing  only  when 
touched  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  When  the  prayer  of  dismissal  had  been 
offered  after  nine  hours  of  religious  service,  these  young  people,  whom 
you  have  sent  from  your  homes  to  go  into  the  mission  field,  gathered 
around  me  with  more  questions,  untiring  in  their  effort  to  gain  more 
information. 

We  shall  not  be  greatly  concerned  for  them  while  they  are  in  the 
mission  field,  for  they  are  going  out  with  a  purpose,  and  God  is  with 
them  and  watching  over  them,  and  will  hear  and  answer  their  prayers 
and  our  prayers  in  their  behalf,  and  as  long  as  they  continue  in  that 
service  in  faith,  his  blessings  will  rest  upon  them,  and  they  will  return 
home  to  bear  testimony  of  his  goodness,  and  to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel. 

Then  is  the  time  when  we  should  be  gravely  concerned  for  them, 
for  we  find  many  times  these  young  missionaries  come  home  and  find 
themselves  in  the  condition,  in  a  measure,  that  the  Savior  found  him- 
self in,  as  related  to  us  by  Brother  Richards  today.   Speaking  of  Jesus : 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


63 


"And  when  he  was  come  unto  his  own  country,  he  taught  them  in  their 
synagogue,  insomuch  that  they  were  astonished,  and  said,  whence  hath  this 
man  this  wisdom,  and  these  mighty  works  ?  Is  not  this  the  carpenter's  son  ? 
is  not  his  mother  called  Mary?  and  his  hrethren,  James,  and  Joses,  and  Simon, 
and  Judas?  And  his  sisters,  are  they  not  all  with  us?  Whence  then  hath  this 
man  all  these  things?  And  they  were  offended  in  him.  But  Jesus  said  unto 
them,  A  prophet  is  not  without  honor,  save  in  his  own  country,  and  in  his 
own  house.    And  he  did  not  many  mighty  works  there  because  of  their  unbelief." 

Let  us  compare  the  faith  of  these,  his  own  people,  with  the  faith 
of  one  who  was  despised  by  the  Jews. 

''So  Jesus  came  again  into  Cana  of  Galilee,  where  he  made  the  water  wine. 
And  there  was  a  certain  nobleman,  whose  son  was  sick  at  Capernaum.  When 
he  heard  that  Jesus  was  come  out  of  Judea  into  Galilee,  he  went  unto  him, 
and  besought  him  that  he  would  come  down,  and  heal  his  son :  for  he  was 
at  the  point  of  death.  Then  said  Jesus  unto  him,  Except  ye  see  signs  and 
wonders,  ye  will  not  believe.  The  nobleman  saith  unto  him,  Sir,  come  down 
ere  my  child  die.  Jesus  saith  unto  him  Go  thy  way;  thy  son  liveth.  And  the 
man  believed  the  word  that  Jesus  had  spoken  unto  him,  and  he  went  his  way. 
And  as  he  was  now  going  down,  his  servants  met  him,  and  told  him,  saying, 
Thy  son  liveth.  Then  enquired  he  of  them  the  hour  when  he  began  to  amend. 
And  they  said  unto  him,  Yesterday  at  the  seventh  hour  the  fever  left  him. 
So  the  father  knew  that  it  was  at  the  same  hour,  in  the  which  Jesus  said 
unto  him,  Thy  son  liveth :  and  himself  believed,  and  his  whole  house." 

I  am  wondering  if  in  Israel  today  we  are  not  lacking  just  a  little 
bit  in  faith.  During  the  last  summer  we  received  many  reports  saying : 
"We  have  been  unable  to  do  anything  with  our  priesthood  work.  It 
is  vacation  period,  and  everybody  feels  that  they  should  have  a  vacation 
from  church  work." 

I  do  not  feel  to  criticize  any  who  have  a  desire  to  take  a  vacation, 
for  a  change  and  rest  is  necessary  at  times,  but  even  then  they  must 
have  food  if  their  physical  welfare  is  to  be  preserved.  But  I  have 
yet  to  find  a  good  reason  for  taking  a  vacation  from  spiritual  work, 
and  from  that  association  which  comes  to  those  who  are  humbly  seeking 
spiritual  food.  On  the  contrary,  as  I  view  the  situation,  I  find  that  those 
who  feel  that  it  is  necessary  to  take  a  vacation  from  church  work  seem 
to  forget  that  spiritual  food  is  necessary  to  preserve  the  spiritual  body 
and  without  it  the  spiritual  body  begins  to  die  for  lack  of  nourishment. 
That  death  may  come  slowly  or,  if  sin  overtake  them,  it  may  come  quick- 
ly, and  I  believe  one  of  the  greatest  dangers  that  we  have  confronting 
us  is  the  sin  of  indifference  which  surely  leads  to  spiritual  death. 

There  is  no  time  for  vacation  in  this  service.  God  is  working 
constantly.  He  requires  that  his  children  upon  whom  the  priesthood 
has  been  conferred  labor  in  spirit  constantly,  for  the  spirit  of  God  will 
not  always  strive  with  man.  We  cannot  lay  this  work  aside  and  take 
it  up  as  we  feel  inclined,  for  if  we  hope  to  succeed  we  must  work  daily, 
hourly  and  every  minute.  We  must  so  live  that  these  temples  which 
God 'has  given  to  us  and  which  we  call  our  physical  being  will  be  kept 
clean  and  a  fit  dwelling  place  for  his  spirit.  That  can  best  be  done 
through  associations  provided  through  our  gatherings,  such  as  priest- 
hood and  sacramental  meetings  where  spiritual  uplift  is  engaged  in. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  condition  is  manifest  in  our  missionaries  who,  after  having  de- 
voted all  of  their  time  to  the  spiritual,  come  home  strong  in  spirit. 

We  should  be  concerned  for  these  young  people  who  return  from 
the  mission  field,  because  I  find,  or  I  think  I  find  that  sometimes  we 
do  not  have  a  full  sense  of  responsibility  regarding  their  future  welfare. 
It  can  be  pictured  to  you  in  this  statement.  I  heard  a  father  say  to  his 
boy,  who  had  just  returned  from  the  mission  field :  "Come  on  now, 
son,  get  off  your  good  clothes  and  get  into  your  old  ones  and  get  to 
work.    You  have  been  loafing  long  enough." 

Most  of  them  don't  loaf  in  the  mission  field,  but  we  force  them 
to  loaf  sometimes  when  they  come  home,  because  we  fail  to  feed  them, 
to  give  them  that  spiritual  food  that  kept  them  active  while  in  the  mis- 
sion field.  And  so  they  die  spiritually,  and  we  wonder  why.  Don't 
blame  them.  It  isn't  their  fault.  It  isn't  their  choosing.  They  would 
have  it  otherwise. 

Now,  what  of  the  future?  I  must  not  talk  longer,  but  let  me  give 
just  a  little  illustration  that  perhaps  will  show  you  what  can  be  done. 
After  the  close  of  the  past  year,  when  bishops  were  sending  their  annual 
reports  to  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office,  one  bishop  came  with  his,  and 
as  he  turned  to  leave  the  office,  he  waved  his  hand  to  me.  I  returned  his 
salute  and  beckoned  him  to  come  into  the  side  office  where  I  was,  for  he 
had  a  broad  smile  on  his  face  and  seemed  unusually  happy.  He  stepped 
to  the  door,  and  stated  that  he  had  no  desire  to  disturb  me.  He  just 
wanted  to  say  "hello."  I  suggested  that  he  seemed  happy  and  asked 
how  he  managed  to  get  that  way,  for  it  is  unusual  to  find  a  bishop  in 
that  frame  of  mind  at  that  time  of  the  year.  He  answered  that  he  was 
happy  because  the  people  over  whom  he  was  presiding  were  helping 
him.    He  stated  that  he  had  been  bishop  two  years.    He  said : 

"When  I  started  in  to  get  acquainted  with  the  people  of  my  ward  I  found 
it  was  very  difficult  to  make  much  headway  with  the  older  people.  They  were 
fixed  in  their  habits.  They  were  doing  some  church  work,  but  not  much.  Most 
of  them  were  willing  to  let  someone  else  do  the  work.  Their  activity  record 
was  on  a  par  with  their  spiritual  condition.  We  decided  to  take  up  a  labor  with 
the  younger  people.  We  reorganized  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  quorums,  conferred 
with  those  who  were  active,  and  they  helped  us  outline  a  campaign  to  encourage 
greater  activity.  We  sent  them  out  to  bring  in  those  who  were  inactive.  They 
responded  with  such  a  spirit  of  good  will  that  soon  every  boy  who  held  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  was  in  attendance  at  meetings.  We  decided  to  take  up 
as  our  first  major  activity  a  campaign  for  the  year  on  tithing.  Our  first  duty 
was  to  convert  ourselves.  Every  phase  of  the  subject  was  discussed.  All  agreed 
to  work  with  a  desire  to  have  every  person  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  a  full 
tithepayer.  We  gave  quorums  credits  based  on  numbers.  Some  complained 
that  we  were  bribing  them,  in  offering  credits  for  the  payment  of  tithing,  but 
nevertheless  it  was  a  means  of  encouraging  them.  They  brought  in  their  five 
cents,  their  ten  cents,  their  twenty  cents  each  week  as  they  earned  money.  After 
a  while  the  parents  gave  more  thought  to  their  tithing,  and  last  yeart  when  I 
came  in  with  my  tithing  settlement,  we  had  double  the  tithing  of  the  year  before 
and  more  than  double  the  number  of  active  members,  due  largely  to  the  activity 
of  these  young  men  whom  we  taught  to  observe  this  principle.  And  this  year 
we  have  increased  the  tithing  of  our  ward  just  as  much  as  we  increased  it 
last  year  and  the  ward  members  are  responding  to  every  call,  and  that  is  why 
I  am  happy  to  come  in  here  with  my  final  report." 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


65 


I  could  mention  many  such  experiences. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  what  of  tomorrow?  Tomorrow  may 
never  come,  to  some  of  us ;  but  may  the  blessings  of  God  rest  upon 
us  today,  that  we  may  be  touched  with  the  power  and  influence  of  his 
Holy  Spirit.  May  we  have  power  to  see  clearly  the  purpose  of  this  great 
work;  may  we  see  clearly  the  niche  in  which  we  belong,  that  we  may 
fit  in  and  do  that  which  is  required  of  us  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  for 
there  is  work  for  all  to  do.  We  belong  to  the  most  wonderful  organiza- 
tion in  all  the  world.  Men  are  called  to  positions  of  responsibility, 
and  after  a  time  are  released,  and  take  their  places  in  the  ranks  that 
others  may  gain  experience  through  leadership.  There  are  no  hard 
feelings,  jealousy,  or  contention,  for  men  serve  wherever  they  are  called 
to  serve.  They  do  not  seek  honor,  and  serve  with  fear  and  trembling, 
happy  to  be  engaged  in  such  a  noble  cause. 

May  we  continue  in  that  spirit.  May  we  have  love  in  our  hearts 
for  each  other.  May  we  work  for  each  other,  and  to  the  end  that  God's 
purposes  shall  be  brought  about,  and  when  the  time  comes  for  us  to 
lay  down  the  part  we  are  called  to  play,  I  sincerely  trust  it  will  be  said 
of  us:  "Well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant.  Enter  into  my 
rest."    May  God  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  that 
comes  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  gives  to  us  power  to  think,  to 
reason,  and  to  teach. 

This  Conference  has  been  one  of  great  interest  to  me.  My  mind 
has  been  directed  toward  so  many  things  that  pertain  to  our  work.  I 
have  been  making  notes  during  the  entire  period  of  our  meetings, 
up  to  now,  notes  that  I  trust  I  may  use  to  refresh  my  mind  when  I 
am  in  the  conferences  of  the  Church,  because  very  many  times  a  sug- 
gestion or  an  idea  directs  to  a  portion  of  the  scripture,  and  when  we 
read  it  it  sounds  a  little  different  from  what  we  thought  it  did,  because 
it  has  been  a  long  time  since  we  read  it,  perhaps. 

A   BLESSED  PEOPLE 

We  are  a  blessed  people.  I  know  of  no  other  people  in  the  world 
who  have  more  reason  to  be  grateful  than  we.  We  have  all  that  the 
world  has  in  the  way  of  information,  education,  culture,  refinement ; 
and  besides  that  we  have  an  understanding  of  the  purpose  of  life: 
we  have  the  privilege  of  being  identified  with  the  Church  of  the  Lamb 
of  God. 

We  are  wonderfully  blessed  in  the  assurance  that  the  Lord  gives 
to  us  of  eternal  life,  and  when  we  compare  the  information  that  we 
have  obtained  with  that  which  many  of  our  Father's  children  in  the 
world  have,  we  are  made  to  realize  that  much  will  be  expected  of  us, 
because  unto  us  much  has  been  given. 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  unique  these  days  to  belong  to  a  church,  wherein  those  who 
are  members  believe  that  the  Lord  speaks  through  their  leaders.  When 
we  are  instructed  by  the  President  of  this  Church,  we  believe  he 
tells  us  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  do.  To  us  it  is  something"  more 
than  just  the  advice  of  man.  We  believe  that,  and  it  searches  our  souls, 
and  we  are  prompted  to  renew  our  determination  to  be  what  God  would 
have  us  be. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  fine  testimonies  that  have  been  borne,  in 
the  instructions  that  we  have  received.  I  have  had  pleasure  in  shaking 
hands  with  many  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  here.  These  things  give 
me  joy,  and  help  to  make  my  life  worth  living. 

While  Brother  Kimball  was  speaking  of  the  prophecies  of  his 
father,  I  thought  how  many  men  there  have  been  in  this  Church  who 
have  listened  to  the  voices  of  the  prophets  of  God,  and  who  have  lived 
to  see  the  fulfilment  of  those  prophecies.  No  other  organization  that 
I  know  of,  in  the  world,  lays  claim  to  any  such  gifts  or  blessings. 

INVESTIGATORS  IN  THE  MISSIONS 

I  have  just  returned  from  the  Northern  States  Mission  where  I 
had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  a  number  of  our  larger  branches.  The 
development  there  is  very  pleasing  to  me.  I  have  never  been  in  the 
Northern  States  before  when  we  had  so  many  comfortable  chapels  as 
we  have  now  that  have  been  dedicated  to  the  Lord,  and  I  have  never 
been  there  before  when  there  was  as  great  a  percentage  of  investigators 
in  the  congregations  as  at  this  time. 

The  people  of  the  world  are  becoming  alarmed,  but  the  alarm  is 
only  just  beginning.  Unless  the  men  and  women  of  this  nation,  and 
of  all  nations,  turn  unto  the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments,  they 
cannot  hope  to  continue  in  his  favor ;  and  if  his  favor  is  removed  from 
them,  then  the  adversary  will  do  his  work.  I  rejoiced  in  my  visit  in 
the  East,  to  find  so  many  people  investigating  the  Gospel,  people  who 
after  meeting  would  say :  "I  have  never  attended  one  of  your  churches 
before,  but  I  thought  I  would  like  to  come,  and  have  enjoyed  the 
service."  I  have  in  mind  a  woman  and  her  husband,  who  came  up 
after  the  meeting  in  Detroit.  They  had  never  before  attended  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  meeting.  This  woman  was  delighted  to  find  that  there  were 
people  on  the  earth  who  believe  as  we  do.  She  listened  to  the  humble 
missionaries  bear  their  testimony  and  preach  the  Gospel,  not  with  great 
learning,  but  with  the  power  that  is  more  potent  than  university  training, 
the  witness  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  they  spoke  the  truth. 

We  cannot  hope  to  convince  the  world  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel 
if  we  depend  upon  the  book-learning  that  we  obtain  in  schools,  but 
we  can  obtain  all  that  they  possess,  and  then  if  the  Lord  continues  to 
bless  us  we  can  go  on,  reaching  higher  points,  understanding  greater 
things  that  are  not  understood  except  by  the  power  of  the  Lord. 

THE  PARABLE  OF  THE  WEDDING  FEAST 

I  have  opened  to  the  twenty-second  chapter  of  St.  Matthew's 
account  of  the  Savior's  teaching,  and  will  read  this  particular  parable : 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


67 


"And  Jesus  answered  and  spake  unto  them  again  by  parables,  and  said, 
"The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  unto  a  certain  king,  which  made  a  marriage 
for  his  son, 

"And  sent  forth  his  servants  to  call  them  that  were  bidden  to  the  wedding : 
and  they  would  not  come. 

"Again  he  sent  forth  other  servants,  saying,  Tell  them  which  are  bidden, 
Behold,  I  have  prepared  my  dinner;  my  oxen  and  my  fatlings  are  killed,  and 
all  things  are  ready:  come  unto  the  marriage. 

"But  they  made  light  of  it,  and  went  their  ways,  one  to  his  farm,  another 
to  his  merchandise : 

"And  the  remnant  took  his  servants,  and  entreated  them  spitefully,  and  slew 
them. 

"But  when  the  king  heard  thereof,  he  was  wroth :  and  he  sent  forth  his 
armies,  and  destroyed  those  murderers,  and  burned  up  their  city. 

"Then  saith  he  to  his  servants,  The  wedding  is  ready,  but  they  which  were 
bidden  were  not  worthy. 

"Go  ye  therefore  into  the  highways,  and  as  many  as  ye  shall'  find,  b|id 
to  the  marriage. 

"So  those  servants  went  out  into  the  highways,  and  gathered  together  all  as 
many  as  they  found,  both  bad  and  good :  and  the  wedding  was  furnished'  with 
guests. 

"And  when  the  king  came  in  to  see  the  guests,  he  saw  there  a  man  which 
had  not  on  a  wedding  garment : 

"And  he  saith  unto  him,  Friend,  how  earnest  thou  in  hither,  not  having  a 
wedding  garment?    And  he  was  speechless. 

"Then  saith  the  king  to  the  servants,  Bind  him  hand  and  foot,  and  take 
him  away,  and  cast  him  into  outer  darkness;  there  shall  be  weeping  and 
gnashing  of  teeth. 

"For  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen." 

OUR  MINISTRY 

How  much  this  is  like  the  world  today !  God  has  restored  his 
Gospel.  He  has  sent  his  servants  into  the  world.  They  have  called 
all  men  to  repentance,  as  far  as  they  could  reach  them ;  have  not  reviled 
them  or  been  unkind,  but  have  invited  them  to  come  into  the  wedding 
feast  that  the  Lord  has  prepared,  and  in  many  cases  they  have  been 
ignored.  People  have  been  too  busy  to  hear  the  message.  The  in- 
vitation meant  nothing  to  them.  They  didn't  believe  in  what  was 
being  done,  and  in  some  cases  they  have  ill-treated  those  who  had  come 
to  them  in  kindness  and  love. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  gospel  of  peace.  It  is  not  a 
gospel  of  contention.  We  are  instructed  by  the  Savior  to  go  into  all 
the  world  and  teach  this  Gospel  unto  every  creature.  That  command- 
ment has  been  given  to  the  Church  in  this  day.  We  do  not  go  out  in 
our  own  name  or  in  our  own  strength,  but  we  offer  to  our  Father's 
children  these  precious  truths,  that  are  essential  for  them  to  understand 
in  order  that  they  may  gain  the  blessing  that  our  Heavenly  Father 
intends. 

Thousands  of  our  sons  have  gone  into  the  world.  Many  have  been 
kindly  received,  and  they  have  explained  the  truth,  and  this  mission 
is  still  going  forward.  The  feast  has  been  prepared.  Our  Heavenly 
Father  has  provided  what  is  necessary:  it  has  not  been  done  by  the 
wisdom  of  man.  He  has  sent  us,  his  representatives,  into  the  world, 
not  to  drive  or  coerce,  but  to  invite.    "Come  follow  me,"  is  what  the 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Savior  said,  "And  I  will  give  you  peace."  That  is  what  the  Gospel 
teaches,  and  that  is  our  ministry. 

WITHOUT  A  WEDDING  GARMENT 

But  I  am  thinking  of  another  group.  Here  was  a  man  who  came 
into  the  wedding  feast,  and  when  the  time  came  the  king  or  the  master 
saw  that  he  didn't  have  a  wedding  garment  on.  He  had  ignored  the 
importance  of  it,  apparently.  He  had  come  in,  not  prepared,  expecting 
to  participate.  He  had  come  to  the  feast — they  had  all  been  bidden  to 
the  feast,  but  I  assume  that  they  were  supposed  to  know  that  only 
those  would  be  admitted  who  were  properly  clothed,  and  this  man  was 
amazed  when  the  question  was  asked  him  why  he  was  there  in  that 
condition. 

The  world  seems  to  think  that  they  can  come  whenever  they  are 
ready.  Our  Father's  children  do  not  understand  that  there  is  some 
preparation  to  be  made.  The  adversary  has  so  deceived  them  as  to  make 
them  believe  that  no  preparation  is  necessary,  anything  will  do,  but 
in  this  message  that  the  Savior  gave  in  a  parable  to  his  associates  we 
are  informed  that  there  must  be  some  preparation,  and  without  that 
preparation  no  one  will  be  permitted  to  partake  of  the  more  precious 
gifts  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  applies  to  the  membership  of 
this  Church  who  have  an  idea  that  because  they  have  been  invited, 
and  because  their  names  appear  upon  the  record  among  those  who  have 
been  called,  there  is  nothing  more  for  them  to  do ;  men  who  have  been 
blessed  in  a  financial  way ;  women  who  have  become  prominent  in  social 
life.  They  have  forgotten  the  Lord  and  are  not  preparing  for  the 
feast  to  which  he  has  invited  them. 

NECESSARY  PREPARATION  FOR  THE  FEAST 

Our  Heavenly  Father  intends  that  we  shall  prepare  for  the  wedding 
feast  or  we  will  be  excluded.  He  expects  us  to  continue  to  store  our 
minds  with  the  truth,  and  to  disseminate  that  truth  as  opportunity 
offers  among  all  his  children.  The  fact  that  our  names  appear  upon 
the  Church  records  is  no  guarantee  that  we  will  find  our  place  in  the 
celestial  kingdom.  Only  those  who  live  worthy  to  be  members  of  that 
kingdom  shall  find  place  there. 

In  the  midst  of  the  unsettled  condition,  the  uncertainty  that  is 
in  the  world,  if  there  ever  was  a  time  when  we  should  examine  ourselves, 
to  find  out  if  we  are  doing  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  do,  it  is  today ; 
if  there  ever  was  a  time  when  we  should  be  sure  that  we  are  in  the 
pathway  of  eternal  life,  it  is  now.  We  can't  slight  these  opportunities. 
God  will  not  be  mocked.  When  he  has  offered  to  us  a  gift,  when  he  has 
placed  within  our  reach  a  blessing,  when  he  has  invited  us  to  partake  of 
a  feast  and  we  ignore  it,  we  may  be  sure  that  we  shall  suffer  the  distress 
that  will  come  to  those  who  refuse  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  when 
they  are  offered. 

ONLY   BY    KEEPING   THE  COMMANDMENTS 

This  is  a  good  time  for  the  membership  of  this  Church  to  be 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


69 


examples  to  all  the  world,  for  the  humble  among  us  to  seek  the  Lord, 
and  for  those  who  lack  humility  to  cultivate  it.  It  has  been  made  very 
plain  to  us,  and  there  was  no  distinction  made  whether  men  were  in  the 
Church  or  out  of  it.  It  was  the  Savior  who  taught  that,  "Unless  you 
are  as  humble  as  a  little  child  ye  shall  not  see  the  kingdom  of  God." 
We  desire  to  see  that  kingdom,  don't  we?  This  group  of  men  and 
women  here  today,  who  represent  the  Church,  desire  to  see  and  to 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord,  and  there  is  only  one  way  whereby  we 
may  obtain  that  priceless  gift,  and  that  is  by  keeping  all  the  command- 
ments of  our  Heavenly  Father.  He  does  not  differentiate ;  he  does  not 
select  any  particular  group  of  commandments ;  but  he  teaches  us  that 
we  must  keep  all  of  his  commandments. 

I  say  that  there  is  need  in  all  Israel  today — there  is  need  for  this 
man  addressing  you  to  examine  himself — there  is  need  for  every  one 
of  us  to  look  about  ourselves  and  see  wherein  we  are  neglecting  our 
privileges  and  our  duty,  for  tomorrow  may  be  too  late.  Today  is  the 
acceptable  time  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  set  our  houses  in  order.  Let  us 
love  one  another.  Let  us  sustain  these  men  whom  God  has  raised  up 
to  preside  over  us.  Let  us  bless  them,  not  only  by  our  lips,  but  by 
assisting  in  every  possible  way  to  carry  this  burden  that  rests  so  heavily 
upon  their  shoulders.  Let  us  honor  these  presidents  of  stakes  and  these 
bishops  of  wards.  Pray  for  and  bless  them  and  help  them.  Let  us 
love  one  another,  that  our  Heavenly  Father  may  be  able  to  bless  us, 
and  he  will  bless  us  if  we  love  one  another  and  do  good  to  all  his 
children. 

TESTIMONY 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
spoken  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world,  that  his  Gospel  is  upon  the 
earth,  and  while  I  would  not  compel  any  soul  to  accept  it,  I  pray  that 
we  may  have  power  and  wisdom  and  strength  to  reach  out  after 
these  neighbors  of  ours  who  do  not  understand  the  truth.  Let  us  do 
our  duty,  and  draw  them  into  the  fold  of  the  Master,  that  they,  with  us, 
may  know  that  he  lives. 

Again,  I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that 
the  Gospel  for  which  these  gave  their  lives  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  and  the  only  means  whereby  we  shall  obtain  a  place  in  his 
celestial  kingdom. 

That  we,  with  those  we  love,  and  as  many  as  we  can  contact  with 
and  influence,  may  take  advantage  of  our  blessings,  and  accept  the 
invitation  to  the  marriage  feast,  and  when  we  arrive  there  be  properly 
clad,  that  we  may  go  in  thereat,  that  we  may  rejoice  with  those  who 
have  kept  the  commandments  of  God,  and  enjoy  eternal  life  in  his 
celestial  kingdom,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  failed  to  read  one  brief  statement  of  statistics  in  my  opening  re- 
marks. There  have  been  two  changes  in  Stake  Presidents :  Elder  David 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  Stoddard  has  been  chosen  to  succeed  Brother  William  D.  Hanks  as 
President  of  the  Union  Stake;  and  Brother  William  O.  Bentley  has 
been  chosen  to  succeed  Brother  Joseph  K.  Nicholes  as  President  of 
St.  George  Stake.  Brother  Stoddard  opened  this  meeting  with  prayer, 
and  Brother  Bentley  will  offer  the  benediction. 

Elder  William  M.  Waddoups  has  been  released  as  President  of 
the  Hawaiian  Mission,  and  also  as  President  of  the  Hawaiian  temple, 
and  Brother  Castle  H.  Murphy  has  been  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Elder  Edward  P.  Kimball  has  been  released  as  President  of  the 
German-Austrian  Mission,  and  Elder  Oliver  H.  Budge  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  succeed  him. 

There  have  been  two  new  wards  organized — the  Fourth  Wiard  of 
Richfield,  Sevier  Stake,  and  Helper  Ward,  Carbon  Stake. 
Bishops  who  have  passed  away  during  the  past  six  months : 

Rulon  M.  Jensen  of  the  Basalt  Ward,  Shelley  Stake. 

Karl  N.  Snow  of  East  St.  George  Ward,  St.  George  Stake. 

We  now  have  104  Stakes  of  Zion;  933  Wards;  71  Independent 
Branches,  making  a  total  of  1004.  There  are  Dependent  Branches, 
41 ;  Missions,  29,  Branches  in  the  Missions,  835.  Total  Wards,  Branches 
and  Missions,  1909. 

All  of  the  brethren  who  have  been  honorably  released  are  released 
with  the  love  and  blessing  and  thanks  of  the  General  Authorities  for 
the  splendid  work  that  they  have  done. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Our  Mountain  Home  So  Dear." 
Benediction  by  Elder  William  O.  Bentley,  President  of  the  St. 
George  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  was  resumed  at  2  p.  m. 

The  hymn,  "Prayer  is  the  Soul's  Sincere  Desire,"  was  sung  by 
the  congregation. 

Elder  Clarence  E.  (Smith,  President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"For  behold,  my  soul  delighteth  in  plainness  unto  my  people,  that  they  may 
learn." 

These  kre  the  words  of  an  ancient  Hebrew  prophet,  addressed 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


71 


to  the  people  whose  leader  he  was,  commissioned  and  appointed  o'f 
God. 

The  spirit  of  plainness  has  characterized  the  addresses  of  this 
conference  so  far,  and  if  I  speak  plainly  unto  you  at  this  time  I 
trust  you  will  understand  that  I  speak  under  the  same  spirit  that 
impelled  Nephi  in  the  utterance  cited. 

WHAT  IS  THE  MATTER  WITH  THE  WORLD? 

We  do  not  believe  in  treating  ourselves  with  gratulation  to  the 
extent  that  we  feel  because  we  are  the  covenant  people  of  God — ■ 
and  we  boldly  proclaim  this  fact — that  all  is  well  with  us  and  that  we 
are  right  in  the  sight  of  God  to  the  extent  he  would  have  us  be. 
Gentle  but  firm  admonishment  has  been  given  in  earlier  addresses. 
Well  deserved  commendations  have  been  made  of  the  good  that  our 
people  have  accomplished  and  are  accomplishing,  and  the  question  of 
what  is  the  matter  with  the  world,  which  occasionally  we  see  in  bold 
headlines  in  newspapers  and  magazines,  has  been  touched  upon. 

The  great  trouble  with  the  world  today  as  I  understand  it  is 
that  it  has  become  idolatrous.  We  read  of  idolatry  and  think  of  it  as 
a  practice  or  series  of  practices  in  the  past.  This  is  an  idolatrous 
generation,  defying  the  commandment  written  by  the  finger  of  God — 
"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me,"  and  an  idolatrous  gen- 
eration is  an  adulterous  generation. 

IDOLATRY  AND  ADULTERY 

Have  you  never  pondered  over  that  remark  of  the  Savior  to  those 
who  came  seeking  a  sign  at  his  hand,  when  there  were  signs  all 
about  them?  They  had  seen  the  sick  healed,  the  lame  made  to  walk, 
the  deaf  made  to  hear,  the  blind  made  to  see,  the  dead  raised  to  life, 
and  still  they  came  asking  for  a  sign;  and  he  answered  them  as  be- 
fitted their  hypocrisy: 

"An  evil  and  adulterous  generation  seeketh  after  a  sign." 

I  ask,  have  you  ever  considered  the  connection  between  the  awful 
sin  of  adultery  and  that  godlessness  that  made  those  curiosity-seekers 
come  asking  for  a  sign?  The  word  "adultery"  and  the  word  "idolatry" 
were  originally  one,  that  is,  they  sprang  from  the  same  root,  and  mean 
essentially  the  condition  of  being  false  to  a  solemn  covenant. 

The  Lord  compared  himself — though  in  terms  of  rebuke — to  the 
Israelites  of  old,  as  their  husband.  "I  am  married  unto  you,"  he  said ; 
and  further,  in  effect:  "O  recreant  Judah,  backsliding  Israel.  I  am 
married  unto  you.  I  love  you  as  a  husband  loves  his  wife,  and  yet 
you  go  after  strange  gods  and  desert  me,  with  whom  you  have  made 
covenant." 

LIVING  SCRIPTURES 

That  was  adultery  and  idolatry,  and  such  is  characteristic  of  the 
world  today.  How  far  does  it  affect  the  Latter-day  Saints?  Let 
Vis  consider  later.    But  first  I  cite  you  to  a  bit  of  ancient  scriptural 


71 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


history,  and  as  introductory  to  such  citation,  I  take  the  opportunity 
of  saying  that  every  dispensation  of  the  Lord's  dealings  with  mankind, 
from  the  Adamic  down,  has  been  characterized  by  living  scriptures. 
The  accumulated  scriptures  of  earlier  dispensations  were  quite  essential 
to  the  people  lest  they  would  dwindle  in  unbelief.  These  ancient  records 
are  the  world's  treasures ;  but  ancient  scripture  is  not  enough.  In 
every  dispensation  there  have  been  oracles  of  God  empowered  to  speak 
the  will  and  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  what  they  spoke  became 
scripture,  technically  after  it  was  written ;  and  these  scriptures  are 
preserved  for  our  guidance. 

A  BIT  OF  ANCIENT  HISTORY 

Here  is  the  historic  instance  I  would  cite  to  you.  Call  to  mind 
the  history  of  King  Nebuchadnezzar,  whom  the  Lord  used  as  a  scourge 
unto  the  covenant  people  because  they  had  gone  astray.  Aye,  because 
they  had  deserted  him,  their  husband,  and  had  fallen  into  the  ways  of 
idolatry  and  adultery,  he  sent  Nebuchadnezzar  to  scourge  them.  The 
pagan  king  led  Israel  captive.  He  went  so  far  as  to  take  from  the 
temple  in  Jerusalem  the  sacred  vessels  of  gold  and  silver  that  has  been 
used  in  the  ceremonies-  and  ordinances  of  the  holy  house.  Eventually 
Nebuchadnezzar  was  brought  to  see  the  power  of  God  and  rendered 
praise  unto  him. 

His  successor,  Belshazzar,  referred  to  by  historians  as  the  son 
or  the  grandson  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  was  lifted  up  in  the  pride  of  his 
heart,  and  on  the  occasion  of  a  great  feast  he  called  for  the  vessels  that 
had  been  brought  from  the  temple  that  he  might  display  before  his 
people  his  power  and  proclaim  anew  the  captivity  of  Judah. 

You  know  the  story.  As  he  and  his  lords  with  their  wives  and 
concubines  there  in  the  court  were  drinking  from  those  vessels,  a 
mystic  hand  appeared,  writing  upon  the  wall.  None  of  the  king's 
sooth-sayers  or  wise  men  could  interpret  the  writing.  Belshazzar  was 
greatly  frightened.  Then  Daniel  was  called,  he  who  had  interpreted 
the  dream  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  he  spoke  plainly,  for  his  soul 
delighted  in  plainness.  He  recited  the  troubles  that  had  come  upon 
Nebuchadnezzar,  and  then  added  : 

"And  thou  his  son,  O  Belshazzar,  hast  not  humbled  thine  heart,  though 
thou  knewest  all  this ; 

"But  hast  lifted  up  thyself  against  the  Lord  of  heaven;  and  they  have 
brought  the  vessels  of  his  house  before  thee,  and  thou,  and  thy  lords,  thy  wives, 
and  thy  concubines,  have  drunk  wine  in  them ;  and  thou  hast  praised  the  gods 
of  silver,  and  gold,  of  brass,  iron,  wood,  and  stone,  which  see  not,  nor  hear, 
nor  know :  and  the  God  in  whose  hand  thy  breath  is,  and  whose  are  all  !thy 
ways,  hast  thou  not  glorified." 

Then  did  he  interpret  the  divinely  cryptic  writing,  part  of  which 
interpretation  made  clear  to  Belshazzar  that  he  had  been  weighed  in 
the  balance  and  found  wanting,  and  his  kingdom  was  to  be  taken 
from  him. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T  AIM  AGE 


73 


PRESENT  DAY  APPLICATION 

Ancient  history,  you  say,  yes  but  is  it  not  applicable  to  conditions 
in  the  world  today?  Men  are  praising  the  gods  of  silver  and  of  gold 
and  of  all  the  other  valuable  commodities  that  make  up  wealth,  and 
the  God  in  whose  hand  their  breath  is  and  whose  are  all  their  ways 
they  will  not  recognize.  Do  you  wonder  that  wickedness  and  crime 
have  increased  to  terrifying  proportions  under  those  conditions?  The 
prophets  of  old  foresaw  it.  They  spoke  of  the  days  of  wickedness  and 
vengeance  immediately  precedent  to  the  second  coming  of  the  Lord, 
which  I  reiterate,  for  it  has  been  spoken  before,  is  near  at  hand. 

Now,  O  Israel,  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  how  far  do  these  conditions 
exist  among  us  as  a  people,  laying  claim  even  to  higher  title  than  that 
of  which  Israel  of  old  were  so  proud?  There  were  certain  signs  by 
which  that  ancient  people  were  known  among  their  pagan  contem- 
poraries.   I  mention  three,  as  many  as  time  will  permit. 

SIGNS  OF  THE  COVENANT  PEOPLE 

The  Israelites  were  distinguished  in  the  first  place  as  worshipers 
of  a  living  God, -a  personal  God,  in  whose  image  they  had  been  created 
and  made.  No  other  nation  on  the  face  of  the  earth  recognized  the 
living  God.  That  was  a  sign  by  which  the  covenant  people,  descendants 
of  Abraham,  through  Isaac  and  Jacob,  were  known.  Another  sign 
was  this,  they  observed  every  seventh  day  as  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord 
their  God ;  and  the  Lord  had  said :  This  shall  be  a  sign  between  thee 
and  the  nations :  The}'  shall  know  that  ye  are  my  people,  because  ye 
observe  my  Sabbaths.  And  the  third  sign  I  mention  is  that  they  were 
tithed  of  all  they  possessed.  Those  were  set  forth  prominently  as  the 
banners  of  Israel,  by  which  all  nations  should  know  that  they  were 
the  covenant  people  of  God. 

Now  I  repeat,  in  every  dispensation  living  scriptures  are  given. 
The  history  of  the  past  is  of  value,  but  the  great  principles  are  restated, 
the  fundamental  laws  are  reenacted.  Christ  came  to  fulfil  and  supersede 
the  law  of  Moses,  and  yet  with  his  own  lips  in  the  flesh  he  restated 
every  commandment  in  the  Decalog,  giving  it  to  the  new  dispensation. 
He  cited  prophecies  of  the  past,  connecting  up  the  earlier  dispensations 
with  that  in  which  he  lived  and  at  the  head  of  which  he  stood  in  a 
particular  sense,  not  only  as  the  head  of  all  dispensations,  but  in  the 
sense  of  his  being  there  in  mortality. 

Where  do  we  stand  with  respect  to  those  signs  ?  Are  we  worship- 
ing the  true  and  living  God,  or  are  we  going  idolatrously  after  the 
gods  of  gold  and  silver,  of  iron  and  wood,  and  brass,  diamonds  and 
other  idols  of  wealth?  Are  we  worshiping  our  farms,  our  cattle  and 
sheep  ?  Who  is  our  God  ?  To  whom  are  we  yielding  homage,  allegiance 
and  worship?  Not  worship  by  means  of  words  only,  in  ritualistic  form, 
but  worship  in  action,  devotion,  and  sacrificial  service? 

COMMENDATION   AND  ADMONITION 

I  feel  it  is  the  duty  of  those  who  stand  as  your  presiding  servants 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  your  leaders  to  call  attention  to  the  defects  of  the  people  as  well 
as  to  praise  their  good  deeds ;  and  I  say  that  we  are  not  fully  living 
up  to  those  signs  characteristic  of  the  Lord's  covenant  people.  Where 
are  you  spending  your  Sabbaths?  Are  you  tithed?  No  other  people 
on  the  face  of  the  earth  is  making  such  a  record,  and  I  believe  no 
other  people  in  past  ages  have  made  such  a  record  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  making,  in  the  matter  of  the  payment  of  tithes.  But  col- 
lectively we  are  about  a  fifty  per  cent  tithe-paying  people.  Are  we 
in  the  habit  of  leaving  our  tithing  settlement  until  the  end  of  the  year 
and  then  making  some  donation  or  gift,  calling  it  tithing,  trifling  with 
the  word  of  God  and  his  law?  I  doubt  if  there  be  one  man  in  fifty, 
perhaps  not  one  in  a  hundred,  who  leaves  the  payment  of  his  tithing 
until  the  end  of  the  year  who  pays  a  tithe.  Unless  he  keeps  his  books 
with  all  the  care  that  a  bookkeeper  in  a  great  business  corporation 
could  give  he  does  not  know  what  he  has  to  tithe.  But  the  Lord  would 
have  you  tithed  as  his  people  of  old  were  tithed,  paying  when  they 
received. 

I  know  that  this  people  are  the  people  of  the  Lord,  that  they  are 
acceptable  unto  him,  but  we  are  not  reaching  fully  the  requirements 
that  the  Lord  has  made  upon  us  ;  and  too  many  Latter-day  Saints  are  go- 
ing after  strange  gods,  setting  their  hearts  on  their  hay  and  their  corn, 
their  bonds  and  stocks,  their  automobiles  and  the  luxuries  of  the  world,  to 
the  neglect  of  their  duties  in  the  Church.  Though  I  would  be  no 
prophet  of  evil,  of  disaster,  or  of  calamity,  I  feel  to  say  that  if  the 
Latter-day  Saints  do  not  obey  the  law  that  God  has  given  with  respect 
to  the  tithes,  they  will  have  less  and  less  to  tithe,  this  in  the  Lord's 
own  time. 

EXHORTATION  TO  GREATER  EFFORT 

Let  us  lift  the  banners  of  Zion,  the  banner  of  the  true  worship 
of  the  living  God,  the  banner  of  Sabbath  observance,  make  it  a  holy 
day  for  the  service  of  the  Lord,  not  a  day  of  idle  rest  and  sleep  and 
inactivity,  but  a  day  of  activity  in  the  Lord's  important  service.  This 
he  has  required  of  us,  and  he  never  has  modified  the  requirement  by 
the  slightest  amendment.  Keep  flying  the  banner  of  the  sacred  tithe 
for  the  Lord.  He  would  have  his  people  tithed  that  the  land  may  be 
sanctified  unto  them.  It  is  for  our  good  that  the  law  of  the  tithe  has 
been  given.  We  cannot  advance  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  the 
things  pertaining  to  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God  unless  we  have 
that  training. 

I  can  join  with  full  heart  and  soul  with  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  that  joyous  hymn,  "Zion  prospers,  all  is  well."  But  I  remember 
also  the  words  of  the  Lord  given  unto  the  Nephites  of  old :  "Therefore, 
wo  be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease  in  Zion !  Wo  be  unto  him  that  crieth : 
All  is  well !"  It  depends  upon  how  we  say  it  and  how  we  sing  it.  Zion 
is  prospering  and  will  continue  to  prosper  in  spite  of  you,  my  brother, 
you  forty  per  cent  Latter-day  Saint;  in  spite  of  myself,  whatever 
my  rating  may  be,  and  I  am  trying  to  attain  the  one  hundred  per  cent 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  75 

standard.  Zion  will  prosper  in  spite  of  me,  if  I  am  not  faithful.  But 
wo  unto  him  who  sits  down  in  idle  complacency,  neglecting  the  com- 
mandments of  God. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  what  we  profess  to  be,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  man  in  his  creation  is  a  dual  being. 
There  is  a  spiritual  side  to  his  nature  and  there  is  a  temporal  side,  and 
with  respect  to  this  matter  I  desire  to  give  expression  to  the  thought 
that  is  in  my  mind. 

THE  DUAL  NATURE  OF  MAN 

If  you  will  pardon  me  for  being  personal,  I  will  say  that  for  the 
last  seventy-three  years  I  have  been  partaking  of  food,  and  every  time 
I  sit  down  to  a  meal  of  victuals,  if  I  address  myself  to  the  occasion 
with  a  good  appetite  and  the  food  is  properly  prepared,  I  enjoy  it. 
It  contributes  to  my  body.    It  is  pleasant,  refreshing  and  healthful. 

Now,  the  elements  that  were  in  the  food  that  I  have  partaken  of 
are  about  the  same,  and  yet  when  the  food  is  prepared  in  a  variety 
of  different  ways  and  made  inviting  to  the  taste  it  accomplishes  the 
purpose.  If  I  refrain  from  taking  food  into  my  mortal  body,  the  body 
will  die. 

What  I  have  said  of  the  body  is  equally  applicable  to  the  spirit. 
We  come  to  meeting  and  sit  down  at  the  table  of  the  Lord,  so  to  speak, 
and  partake  of  spiritual  food.  We  have  had  a  most  wonderful  spec- 
tacle in  this  General  Conference.  Yesterday  the  people  assembled  in 
great  numbers  and  sat  and  listened  with  rapt  attention  to  what  was 
said.  Why  did  they  come  to  the  meeting?  They  came  in  order  to 
get  spiritual  food,  and  they  appeared  to  enjoy  it  and  to  be  well  satisfied 
at  the  conclusion  of  the  services.  It  almost  appeared  from  their 
attitude  that  they  were  indeed  perfectly  satisfied  and  would  require 
no  more  of  such  food.  But  here  they  are  again  today,  the  same  people, 
with  an  appetite  for  more  food  to  strengthen  their  spiritual  natures. 

This  seems  wonderful  to  me,  but  it  is  comprehensible  and  it  is  true. 

THE   GOSPEL  EVERLASTING  AND  EVER-INTERESTING 

Now,  with  respect  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  have  been 
listening  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  for  an  hundred  years.  It  has 
not  changed  in  principle,  or  theory,  or  practice,  one  iota  in  all  that 
period  of  time.  We  are  led  to  believe,  and  we  surely  do  believe,  that 
it  will  never  change.  It  is  an  everlasting  Gospel,  and  yet  when  these 
glorious  doctrines  such  as  faith,  repentance  and  baptism,  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  other  principles  of  the 
Gospel — I  say  when  they  are  presented  to  us  from  different  viewpoints, 
combined  with  the  particular  characteristics  of  the  speakers,  their 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


manner  of  delivery,  etc.,  we  become  interested,  and  what  we  hear  seems 
to  be  new  to  us  and  is  acceptable  and  pleasant.  And  yet,  as  I  have 
already  said,  there  isn't  any  change  at  all  in  the  scheme  of  salvation. 

It  may  be,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  remarks  this  afternoon 
that  I  shall  touch  upon  some  principle  or  principles  that  have  been 
emphasized  in  this  Conference.  If  so,  I  hope  to  approach  them  at  a 
little  different  angle  from  that  which  you  have  heard,  so  that  you  will 
not  become  weary  and  tired,  but  may  be  profited. 

A  SACRED  VOLUME  OF  SCRIPTURE 

I  have  in  my  hand  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  is  a  sacred 
volume  of  scripture.  It  is  one  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church, 
and  in  its  teachings,  it  is  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  Holy  Bible. 
The  title  page  reads  as  follows: 

"The  Pearl  of  Great  Price — selections  from  the  revelations,  translations 
and  narrations  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  first  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

So,  in  part,  what  is  found  in  this  book,  is  a  veritable  pearl  of 
great  value.  It  was  translated  by  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  from 
parchment,  or  papyrus,  which  came  down  from  ancient  times  and  was 
found  enclosed  with  a  mummy.  It  is  a  record  which  is  well  worth 
the  careful  attention  of  the  world. 

AN   EXTREMELY  IMPORTANT  WORK 

In  this  book  there  is  a  sentence  which  has  already  been  quoted 
in  our  Conference  and  which  I  am  disposed  to  repeat,  wherein  the  Lord 
says : 

"This  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man." 

Brother  W  hitney,  I  think,  emphasized  these  words,  and  others  have 
referred  to  them.  Well,  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  say  to  you 
that  in  my  opinion  the  work  thus  referred  to  is  the  greatest  and  most 
important  and  most  vital  work  in  which  God  is  engaged.  Why  is  it 
so  extremely  important  that  he  should  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man?  It  is  for  this  reason:  God  himself  is  eternal, 
God  is  the  "Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  flesh."  Our  earthly  parents 
furnish  our  bodies,  and  our  Heavenly  Parents  furnish  our  spirits,  and 
the  spirit  and  the  body  joined  together  constitute  the  soul  of  man. 
Hence  the  children  of  men  are  living  souls.  It  so  appears  from  the 
very  beginning,  at  the  time  of  man's  creation.  The  record  says :  "God 
created  man  of  the  dust  of  the  earth  and  breathed  into  him  the  breath 
of  life,  and  man  became  a  living  soul."  He  was  never  a  living  soul 
until  that  moment.  What  was  he?  A  living  spirit — whose  habitation 
was  in  heaven.  But  when  the  body  was  created  from  the  dust  of  the 
earth  God  put  the  spirit  into  the  body,  and  man  became  a  living  soul, 
a  child  of  God.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  God  is  interested  in 
man.   It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  he  desires  his  salvation. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


77 


SAVING  PRINCIPLES 

Now,  God  is  a  pure  and  holy  being,  and  in  order  that  man  might 
be  saved  it  is  highly  essential  that  he  should  become  like  God.  And 
if  that  be  the  case,  it  is  imperative  that  man  should  repent  of  his  sins 
and  do  works  of  righteousness,  and  until  such  time  as  this  is  brought 
about  man  cannot  be  saved.  No  impure  or  unholy  thing  can  come 
into  the  presence  of  God  and  dwell  there.  This  emphasizes  powerfully 
the  importance  of  the  doctrine  of  repentance. 

And  then  if  you  put  forth  the  saving  principle  of  repentance  there 
must  be  something  to  go  with  it.  It  is  not  complete  in  itself.  It  is 
not  sufficient  that  a  man  shall  repent  of  his  sins.  There  still  remains 
the  weight  of  sin  upon  his  soul.  There  must  be  some  way  to  remove 
the  weight  of  sin  from  his  soul.  God  has  provided  the  means,  and  it 
consists  of  baptism,  baptism  by  water,  by  immersion,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  administered  by  one  having  authority,  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins.  All  conditions  being  equal,  when  the  man  comes  forth 
from  the  water  of  baptism,  his  sins  are  washed  away  absolutely.  If 
they  are  not  washed  away  baptism  is  a  mockery  in  the  sight  of  God. 
If  it  does  not  accomplish  this  purpose  there  is  nothing  to  it.  But  we 
maintain  that  it  does,  and  the  effect  of  baptism  properly  administered 
is  apparent  at  once.  That  is,  mark  you,  if  it  is  a  complete  baptism, 
and  it  is  not  complete  if  it  has  to  do  with  the  water  simply  and  nothing 
further. 

A  NEW  BIRTH 

Baptism,  like  many  other  things,  is  dual  in  character.  There  are 
two  vital  features  connected  with  it.  There  is  the  baptism  by  water, 
or  the  birth  by  water,  as  Jesus  said  to  Nicodemus,  and  there  is  the 
baptism  of  the  Spirit,  or  the  birth  by  Spirit.  What  kind  of  baptism 
is  the  baptism  by  the  Spirit?  the  Christian  world  might  ask.  Do  yon 
not  know,  ye  men  of  the  world,  ye  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  do  ye  not 
know  what  the  birth  of  the  Spirit  is?  If  you  do  not  let  me  enlighten 
you  and  say  that  it  is  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  comes  upon 
a  man  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  one  having  authority,  and  the  gift 
is  transmitted  to  the  baptized  believer.  He  is  enveloped,  buried  as  it 
were,  in  that  spirit  and  power,  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Spirit 
of  truth,  that  brings  to  his  memory  things  present,  things  past,  and 
things  to  come. 

This  is  a  complete  baptism  and  it  is  described  by  the  Savior  as 
a  new  birth.  We  are  born  into  the  world.  That  is  the  first  birth 
with  which  we  have  to  do.  What  a  wonderful  thing  that  is !  What  a 
tremendous  privilege,  that  we  were  permitted  to  come  into  the  world 
and  take  upon  ourselves  these  bodies.  And  so  now  if  we  are  to  come 
into  the  Church  and  Kingdom 'of  God  it  must  be  by  some  such  means 
as  birth.  We  must  be  born  into  the  Kingdom  of  God.  We  cannot 
walk  into  it ;  we  cannot  run  or  jump  into  it,  or  drop  into  it,  or  grow  up 
into  it ;  we  must  be  born  into  it.  We  must  go  through  the  door,  and 
the  door  is  baptism. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SALVATION  IN  NO  OTHER  WAY 

You  see  that  there  is  reason  and  logic  in  this  great  principle  that 
is  treated  lightly  by  some  people  in  the  world,  some  people  who  say, 
"yes,  yes,  that  is  very  well,  if  you  want  baptism  you  may  have  it; 
some  of  the  churches  will  give  it  to  you  if  you  want  it.  If  you  do 
not  want  it  you  are  at  liberty  to  let  it  alone.  You  can  have  it  or  not  as 
you  please."  But  the  Latter-day  Saints  say  it  is  a  vital  principle  of  the 
Gospel  and  it  cannot  be  set  aside  and  must  not  be  ignored.  And  so 
surely  as  the  sun  shines  and  truly  as  we  live,  no  man  or  woman  can 
come  into  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  and  be  saved  in  his  presence 
without  passing  through  the  door. 

FULFILLING  AN   IMPORTANT  OBLIGATION 

Having  passed  through  the  door  of  baptism  into  the  Kingdom 
this  is  just  the  initial  step.  We  simply  have  the  means,  the  blessing 
and  the  gift  to  become  acquainted  with  the  things  of  God,  to  grow  in 
understanding,  in  knowledge  and  wisdom.  And  let  me  tell  you  of  one 
thing — there  are  many  things  of  course — but  one  very  vital  principle  I 
would  like  to  emphasize  for  a  moment  before  I  sit  down.  It  was 
brought  to  my  mind  as  I  left  the  meeting  this  morning. 

I  met  a  good  sister  who  offered  her  hand  and  said  to  me : 

"Brother  Clawson,  don't  you  recognize  me?" 

I  said  to  her,  "Yes,  of  course  I  recognize  you,  but  for  the  moment 
I  am  unable  to  call  your  name.    Your  face  is  familiar  to  me." 

"W)ell,"  she  said,  "Brother  Clawson  you  might  forget  me  but  I 
shall  never  forget  you,  because  you  once  presided  over  me  and  over  my 
people  in  the  Box  Elder  Stake.    My  name  is  so-and-so." 

I  said :  "Surely  it  is,  I  recognize  you  now  perfectly.  How  is  your 
health?  You  are  looking  very  fine,  in  fact,  you  have  quite  a  youthful 
appearance." 

She  said :  "Brother  Clawson,  my  health  is  very  good,  and  do  you 
know,  I  have  had  quite  a  family  of  children." 
"How  many  have  you  had?" 

She  answered  :  "I  have  had  twelve  children  and  they  are  all  living." 
Then  I  said  to  her :  "Are  they  doing  well  ?  Are  they  good  children  ?" 
She  said,  "Yes." 

I  said  to  her :  "You  are  very  fortunate,  you  are  a  blessed  woman, 
because  you  have  given  heed  to  that  first  great  commandment  that  was 
given  to  Adam  in  the  garden  of  Eden,  when  God  said  unto  him  and 
unto  Eve,  'Be  fruitful  and  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth.'  That 
was  the  obligation  put  upon  Adam,  and  that  is  the  obligation  that 
rests  upon  his  children." 

A  PARTNERSHIP  WITH  GOD 

Then  I  said  to  her,  "Do  you  know  what  that  means?  It  means 
you  have  met  this  obligation,  that  you  have  fulfilled  this  great  duty  in 
life.  It  means  that  you  have  entered  into  a  partnership  with  God 
Almighty.    Now,  that  seems  like  strong  language  to  use,  to  say  that  a 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


79 


mortal  man,  or  a  mortal  woman,  has  entered  into  partnership  with 
the  Lord.  But  it  is  true,  for  the  Lord  is  the  Creator  of  the  souls  of 
men,  and  it  takes  the  spirit  and  the  body  to  make  a  soul,  a  living  soul. 
You  and  your  good  husband  have  created  mortal  bodies  for  twelve 
beings,  twelve  souls.  That  is  your  work,  and  God  has  contributed 
twelve  living,  eternal  spirits  and  put  them  into  those  bodies.  So  you 
have  become  a  partner  with  him.  You  occupy  a  very  different  position, 
entirely  different  to  many  of  those  grand  ladies  in  the  world,  so  de- 
nominated, so  thought  to  be,  with  their  wealth  and  their  culture  and 
their  opportunities.  These  grand  ladies  seem  to  be  satisfied  and 
content  to  put  their  affections,  and  the  affections  of  the  human  heart 
are  very  wonderful,  upon  the  lower  animals — dogs,  cats,  and  monkeys." 

I  said,  "I  have  wondered  many  times  what  would  be  the  feeling 
of  these  people  that  I  am  speaking  of  who  are  blessed  with  mortal 
bodies,  when  they  appear  before  the  bar  of  God  and  stand  there  con- 
victed of  not  having  been  willing  to  meet  the  great  obligation  of  mar- 
riage which  was  instituted  to  people  the  earth." 

ADVICE  CONCERNING  MARRIAGE 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  an  extremely  interesting  and 
important  matter  because  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  particularly  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  favor  marriage.  We  advise  our  young 
people  to  marry  when  they  have  reached  a  proper  and  suitable  age. 
Young  ladies  are  marriageable  at  eighteen,  nineteen,  twenty,  twenty-one 
and  twenty-two,  and  later  on.  Young  men  at  twenty-two,  twenty-three 
and  twenty-four,  twenty-five  and  later  on.  It  is  their  duty  to  go  forth 
and  honor  this  law  of  God.  We  say  to  them,  be  very  careful  and  keep 
yourselves  pure  and  undefiled.  We  say  to  the  young  men  of  Israel,  be 
careful  in  selecting  your  companions.  Make  it  a  subject  of  prayer 
and  much  thought.  Seek  women  of  faith,  women  of  pure  lives ;  and 
then  be  sure,  be  very  sure  that  you  are  in  love  with  the  women  you 
espouse  and  hope  to  marry.  I  would  not  say  to  love  them  with  all 
your  heart  and  soul,  because  that  belongs  to  God.  That  duty  is  to 
him  alone.  But  be  sure  you  love  the  young  woman  sincerely  and  truly, 
and  be  sure  that  she  is  a  good  woman.  Then,  we  would  say  to  the 
young  woman  in  making  her  choice :  Be  ye  equally  careful.  Be  sure 
the  young  man  is  of  good  character,  pure  in  his  life,  that  he  is  a  young 
man  of  faith;  and  after  all  be  very  sure  that  you  love  him.  Without 
love  there  could  be  no  lasting  happiness  between  husband  and  wife. 
Love  is  very  binding  in  its  nature  and  will  help  to  hold  them  together. 

FOR  TIME  ONLY  OR  FOR  ETERNITY? 

Then  I  should  ask  a  couple  if  I  were  advising  them,  "What  kind 
of  marriage  are  you  contracting?  Is  it  a  civil  marriage  or  a  temple 
marriage?"  If  a  civil  marriage,  I  should  say:  "Well  that  is  a  good 
marriage,  that  is  legal.  The  United  States  of  America  stands  behind 
the  civil  marriage.  It  is  not  the  best  marriage  for  you,  however.  There 
is  another  marriage  that  is  far  superior,  and  it  is  the  Temple  marriage. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Temple  marriage  is  very  different  in  character  to  the  civil  mar- 
riage." I  would  say  to  them :  "You  must  remember,  if  you  are  married 
by  the  law  of  the  land  the  contract  holds  good  only  until  death,  at 
which  time  the  bond  is  broken.  On  the  other  hand,  if  you  are  married 
in  the  Temple  the  contract  holds  good  for  this  life  and  the  life  to  come, 
and  you  will  have  a  claim  on  each  other  in  that  future  life  that  cannot 
be  had  by  the  civil  law." 

The  young  man  or  young  woman  might  say :  "Well,  Brother  Claw- 
son,  I  have  heard  that  people  who  are  married  by  the  civil  law,  members 
of  the  Church,  when  they  come  up  in  the  resurrection,  will  find  the  civil 
ceremony  to  be  of  no  virtue  or  force.  Is  that  true?"  I  would  answer, 
"Yes,  it  is  absolutely  true." 

The  girl  might  then  say,  "Well,  I  cannot  subscribe  to  that  idea. 
I  cannot  believe  God  would  be  so  unkind  as  to  separate  me  from  my 
husband.  I  love  him.  He  loves  me.  We  love  our  children.  Surely 
God  will  not  separate  us,  will  he?" 

And  I  would  say,  "No,  of  course  the  Lord  won't  separate  you. 
No,  he  is  too  kind  and  merciful  for  that.  You  have  separated  your- 
selves. God  would  bind  you  together  by  his  law,  but  you  will  not 
permit  it,  so  that  vou  have  already  separated  yourselves  for  the  other 
world." 

She  might  persist  in  saying,  "I  do  not  believe  it." 

Well,  now,  in  conclusion  I  would  say  to  her:  "Let  me  refer  you 
to  a  paragraph  in  the  one  hundred  and  thirty-second  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  (the  thirteenth  verse)."  God,  in  speaking  to 
Joseph  Smith,  his  prophet,  said : 

"Everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of  men,  by  thrones, 
or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatsoever  they  may  be,  that  are 
not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down,  and  shall  not 
remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither  in  nor  after  the  resurrection,  saith  the  Lord 
your  God. 

"For  whatsoever  things  remain  are  by  me ;  and  whatsoever  things  are  not 
by  me  shall  be  shaken  and  destroyed." 

I  would  say  to  the  young  lady,  "Mark  it  well.  The  Temple  marriage 
is  of  God  and  therefore  it  is  one  of  the  things  that  cannot  be  shaken 
or  thrown  down." 

Let  all  the  young  men  of  Israel,  and  all  the  young  women  of 
Israel,  whether  they  are  married  or  single,  remember  that  the  Temple 
marriage  will  stand  in  the  eternities  to  come  when  no  other  marriage 
will  stand. 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

The  assembly  arose  and  sang  the  first  verse  of  "America." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

As  always  happens  in  our  Conferences  we  do  not  have  as  much 
time  as  we  would  like.    We  have  a  surplus  of  speakers,  figuratively 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


81 


speaking,  but  not  enough  time  to  hear  from  all.  I  will  request  the  re- 
maining speakers  this  afternoon  to  watch  the  clock,  and  I  would  like 
them  not  to  take  more  than  fifteen  minutes  each. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  blessed  with  the  privilege  of  performing  a  short  mis- 
sion to  Europe,  having  been  appointed  by  the  First  Presidency.  I  was 
very  glad,  indeed,  that  this  privilege  came  to  me,  for  I  have  never  been 
on  a  foreign  mission.  My  labors  as  a  young  man  while  in  England 
were  quite  extensive,  though  necessarily  restricted  to  a  branch  in 
Nottingham  and  its  nearby  towns  and  villages.  When  I  was  asked 
to  go  to  my  native  land  for  a  short  time,  I  was  very  happy  about  it,  par- 
ticularly when  a  similar  call  came  to  my  dear  friend,  Arthur  Winter, 
who  spoke  to  you  yesterday  forenoon  and  gave  you  some  general 
ideas  concerning  our  duties  and  the  conditions  in  Europe. 

It  might  interest  you  to  know  that  Brother  Winter  and  I  were  born 
in  the  same  town,  played  together  as  children  in  the  same  streets,  went 
to  the  same  school,  and  worked  together  in  the  same  office.  He  heard 
and  accepted  the  Gospel  and  labored  assiduously  with  me  month  after 
month  teaching  me  its  wonderful  principles  and  bearing  constant  testi- 
mony to  its  truth.  Arguments,  scriptural  and  otherwise,  did  not  seem 
to  affect  me,  but  at  last  I  asked  the  Lord  to  give  me  light  and  under- 
standing. When  I  did  this  fervently,  I  began  to  understand  the  Gospel 
and  accepted  it.  Twenty-five  years  ago  Brother  Winter  and  I  had 
the  privilege  of  returning  to  our  native  land  where  we  enjoyed  a 
brief  stay.  Wjords  cannot  express  our  thankfulness  to  the  Lord 
for  the  Gospel,  for  the  marvelous  opportunities  that  have  come  to  both 
of  us  because  of  the  blessings  we  enjoy,  and  for  the  privilege  of 
coming  to  this  goodly  land  where  we  had  the  opportunity  to  be  trained 
and  educated  in  the  Gospel,  and  now  after  twenty-five  years,  we 
again  return  from  England  full  of  thankfulness  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  all  the  Gospel  has  done  for  us. 

The  First  Presidency  instructed  us  to  report  to  President  Widtsoe 
and  to  labor  under  his  direction.  During  our  voyage  to  Europe  we 
received  a  radiogram  requesting  us  to  go  on  to  Basel,  Switzerland, 
instead  of  landing  at  Plymouth.  At  Basel  we  attended  the  closing 
session  of  the  conference  of  European  Mission  Presidents.  A  day 
was  spent  with  President  Widtsoe  who  outlined  what  he  would  like 
us  to  do  when  visiting  the  missions.  These  instructions  were  carried 
out  as  far  as  time  and  circumstances  would  permit.  Our  work  was 
mainly  this :  to  reduce  the  clerical  labor  in  the  mission  offices,  to 
simplify  and  reduce,  if  possible,  the  labor  of  district  presidents  and 
secretaries,  to  encourage  the  organization  of  branches  with  the  local 
priesthood  in  charge,  to  develop  local  self-government  in  the  branches. 
President  Widtsoe  placed  upon  me  the  special  duty  to  work  out  the 
organization,  duties  and  functions  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  the 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


law  of  tithing,  the  proper  use  of  the  tithes  for  mission  purposes,  the 
care  of  the  poor,  etc. 

It  was  very  refreshing  indeed  to  be  in  the  company  of  President 
Widtsoe,  with  his  splendid  powers  of  administration  and  his  wonderful 
grasp  of  the  needs  of  the  missions  of  Europe.  Since  he  has  been 
released  as  president  of  the  British  Mission,  he  is  laboring  night 
and  day  to  organize  and  systematize  the  work  of  the  various  missions 
of  Europe. 

Basel  is  the  headquarters  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission. 
There  we  found  a  fine  body  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  were  many 
large  branches  of  intelligent  members,  and  by  the  time  we  had  visited 
this  mission  and  the  German-Austrian  Mission,  we  had  a  very  high 
opinion  of  the  German  people.  They  are  refined  and  educated  and 
have  very  high  ideals. 

Our  next  stay  was  in  Geneva  where  we  met  with  the  President 
of  the  French  Mission,  who  has  a  fine  group  of  young  elders.  They 
are  trying  to  allay  prejudice  and  want  the  privilege  of  giving  the 
French  nation  a  fair  opportunity  to  hear  the  Gospel.  President  Woolf 
has  moved  headquarters  to  Paris  where  he  expects  to  organize  a  branch 
and  to  gather  in  quite  a  number  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  taking 
special  courses  in  the  great  universities  in  science,  art,  and  literature. 
There  are  some  members  of  the  Church  who  are  residing  in  Paris 
permanently. 

On  leaving  Geneva  we  visited  Oberammergau  where  we  saw 
the  great  Passion  Play.  It  is  a  wonderful  production,  but  if  I  had  my 
choice,  I  would  rather  see  our  own  great  pageant.  I  felt  the  influence 
of  our  own  pageant  more  than  that  of  the  Passion  Play.  In  saying 
this,  however,  I  do  not  wish  to  belittle  the  marvelous  work  of  the 
village  folks  of  Oberammergau. 

From  there  we  went  to  Czecho-Slovakia  where  we  met  a  number 
of  elders  in  the  city  of  Prague.  They  are  happy  and  optimistic  as 
to  the  future.  I  believe  the  English  language  is  spoken  more  in  that 
city  in  proportion  to  its  inhabitants  than  in  any  other  foreign  city. 
The  elders  were  preaching  to  crowds  of  people  in  English.  They 
found  they  were  not  making  progress  in  acquiring  the  Czech  language, 
so  they  resolved  to  speak  only  the  Czech  language  among  themselves. 
They  are  now  prepared  to  go  out  into  the  country  districts.  I  believe 
there  is  a  great  future  in  this  land.  The  reformation  started  in  the 
city  of  Prague.  It  was  the  home  of  John  PIuss.  I  was  gratified  to 
hear  that  the  people  were  thankful  for  what  the  United  States  has 
done  for  them  in  securing  their  liberty,  and  they  are  naming  streets 
and  other  places  after  great  men  of  the  United  States. 

From  Prague  we  went  to  Dresden  and  found  that  President  Ed- 
ward P.  Kimball  had  been  released  because  of  the  illness  of  his  wife. 
He  was  just  getting  started  in  the  work,  introducing  ideas  for  the 
development  of  the  missionary  work  in  the  German-Austrian  Mission. 
While  there  we  attended  the  great  health  exhibition.  The  Latter-day 
Saint  exhibition  typified  the  words,  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them."    The  exhibit  stressed  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  its  results 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


83 


on  the  people  in  Utah.  A  table  had  been  provided  in  the  room  upon 
which  were  small  folders  called  "The  Word  of  Wisdom,"  and  one 
hundred  and  twenty  thousand  of  these  folders  had  been  taken.  We 
then  went  to  the  former  home  of  Karl  G.  Maeser  in  Meissen  and  stood 
in  reverence  before  the  house,  discussing  the  life  and  labors  of  that 
great  man.  One  of  the  brethren  said,  "What  a  marvelous  work 
Brother  Maeser  did  for  the  Church."  He  was  answered  by  another, 
"Yes,  and  what  a  marvelous  work  the  Church  did  for  Brother  Maeser." 

From  there  we  went  to  Berlin  where  we  met  with  a  number  of 
elders.  That  city  has  a  fine  body  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  a  splendid 
troop  of  Boy  Scouts.   We  met  with  the  branch  members  one  night. 

The  next  stopping  place  was  Copenhagen  which  has  been  one  of 
the  most  fruitful  missions  of  the  Church.  It  is  claimed  that  more 
people  have  embraced  the  Gospel  in  Denmark  in  proportion  to  its 
population  than  in  any  other  country.  A  beautiful  mission  home 
and  chapel  are  being  erected  there.  The  buildings  are  a  credit  to 
the  community,  and  these  two  fine  buildings  will  serve  notice  to  the 
Danish  people  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  there  to  stay. 

In  Stockholm  we  were  very  cordially  received.  Several  days  were 
spent  in  office  work.  We  met  with  the  saints  in  their  meetings  on 
two  different  occasions.  We  also  met  with  the  local  priesthood  and 
with  the  missionaries;  in  fact,  this  was  our  policy  everywhere  we 
went.  The  people,  as  well  as  the  missionaries,  accorded  us  royal 
treatment,  and  when  we  left,  a  large  body  of  the  saints  were  at  the 
station  to  bid  us  farewell  and  sang  two  of  the  songs  of  Zion,  much 
to  the  astonishment  of  the  passengers  on  the  train. 

We  continued  our  journey  to  Oslo  where  we  attended  to  the 
business  of  the  Church.  We  visited  one  branch  forty-five  miles  south, 
met  with  the  elders,  and  during  our  stay  there  the  old  folks'  annual 
party  was  given.  I  noticed  many  elderly  people  who,  under  ordinary 
circumstances,  will  never  have  an  opportunity  to  come  to  Zion,  and 
yet  they  are  full  of  faith  and  devotion. 

Our  next  visit  was  to  Rotterdam.  We  met  with  the  President  and 
his  staff  and  with  the  saints  in  Rotterdam  and  Utrecht.  A  special 
meeting  was  held  with  the  elders  in  Utrecht  at  which  there  were 
thirty  elders  present  out  of  the  fifty  in  the  mission. 

After  that  we  went  to  Birmingham  in  England,  which  is  now 
the  headquarters  of  the  British  Mission.  There  we  had  the  pleasure 
of  meeting  a  large  body  of  elders.  After  attending  to  routine  and 
clerical  work,  we  enjoyed  the  hospitality  of  President  Lund  and  his 
wife.  A  few  days  later  we  met  with  all  the  district  presidents  along 
with  President  and  Sister  Widtsoe. 

Liverpool  was  our  next  destination.  We  reported  to  President 
Wlidtsoe  our  labors  in  the  missions  and  to  Sister  Widtsoe  we  reported 
Relief  Society,  M.  I.  A.,  and  Primary  matters.  In  England  we  found 
a  large  number  of  Latter-day  Saints  out  of  work.  Poverty  is  very 
closely  related  to  the  unemployed,  but  through  the  efforts  of  branch 
organizations,  some  are  obtaining  employment,  and  I  am  pleased  to 
say  that  no  Latter-day  Saints  are  suffering  for  the  necessities  of  life. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Many  have  inquired,  "How  did  you  find  conditions  in  England, 
Germany,  etc.?"  We  found  serious  business  depressions  and  much 
poverty.  We  thought  we  noticed  the  demoralizing  effect  of  the  "dole" 
system  in  both  countries.  In  most  of  the  countries  we  visited  there  was 
a  disposition  to  ignore  religion.  Some  said,  "What  is  the  use  of 
religion?  It  did  not  stop  the  war."  We  said  in  several  cases  that  had 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  dominated  the  Christian  nations,  war  would 
have  been  impossible. 

Some  of  the  countries  of  Europe  are  still  unsettled  politically, 
as  well  as  economically,  and  it  is  probable  that  during  the  next  few 
years  there  will  be  serious  changes  in  their  forms  of  government. 

All  the  elders  seem  enthusiastic.  They  are  developing  remarkably. 
They  are  the  finest  body  of  men  I  have  seen  outside  of  Utah.  I  was 
delighted  with  their  poise  and  intelligence.  The  captain  on  one  of 
the  ships  said  to  me,  "I  am  always  glad  when  there  are  Latter-day 
Saint  missionaries  on  my  ship.  They  are  the  cleanest,  best  behaved, 
best  mannered  people  that  travel.  I  am  always  glad  to  have  them. 
Tell  your  people  that  from  me." 

As  to  the  indifference  of  the  peoples  of  Europe  to  religion,  I 
am  wondering.  There  is  a  reaction  against  all  kinds  of  religion.  The 
result  will  be,  I  believe,  that  in  the  near  future  honest  men  and  women 
will  look  for  a  worth  while  religion,  and  I  hope  when  that  time  comes 
such  honest  people  will  listen  to  the  message  of  this  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  we  sense  deeply 
our  responsibility  to  preach  the  Gospel  and  warn  the  world.  May  the 
quorums  of  High  Priests,  Seventies,  and  Elders  rise  to  their  responsi- 
bility and  cooperate  with  the  bishops  so  that  the  widow's  son  or  daughter 
may  have  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  mission  field.  If  each  of  the 
five  hundred  Elders'  quorums,  one  hundred  and  fifty  Seventies'  quorums, 
and  one  hundred  and  four  High  Priests'  quorums  would  make  up  their 
minds  to  support  one  missionary,  the  number  on  missions  could  be  very 
materially  increased.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  all  so  that  His  will 
may  be  done  and  righteousness  established  in  the  earth.  I  ask  these 
blessings  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

When  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  restored  and  his 
Church  again  established  upon  the  earth  and  endowed  with  power 
from  on  high  a  tremendous  responsibility  was  placed  upon  it.  This 
responsibility  was  twofold  in  its  nature.  First,  the  proclamation  of 
that  Gospel  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  As  to  how  well  the 
Church  has  discharged  itself  of  that  responsibility — and  it  is  still  en- 
gaged in  it — these  great  gatherings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  upon 
the  occasions  of  our  General  Conferences,  bear  eloquent  testimony. 

Missionaries  are  sent  to  every  part  of  the  world,  carrying  the 
glad  tidings  of  great  joy,  declaring  unto  the  nations  that  God  has 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


85 


spoken  again  and  restored  that  Gospel  which  has  within  it  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  making  known  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.    What  a  wonderful  work  that  is! 

These  missionaries  numbering  two  thousand  and  upwards,  at  the 
call  of  the  Church,  cheerfully  leave  their  homes  and  their  loved  ones, 
oftentimes  under  most  trying  circumstances,  pay  their  own  expenses, 
even  buying  the  literature  which  they  use,  and  devote  some  two  or  three 
years  of  their  time  or  as  many  more  as  may  be  required  of  them  in  the 
promulgation  of  the  Gospel.  Surely  the  first  phase  of  this  responsibility 
is  being  fairly  met.  Why  all  this  noble  endeavor,  this  great  sacrifice, 
this  hearty  response  which  would  be  impossible  under  any  ordinary 
circumstances?  And  why  such  devotion?  Why  was  it  necessary  to 
restore  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  earth  ?  Because  it  was  nowhere 
to  be  found  among  its  inhabitants  or  as  the  Prophet  Amos  prophesied, 
there  was  a  "famine  in  the  land,  not  a  famine  for  bread  nor  a  thirst 
for  water,  but  of  hearing  the  words  of  the  Lord." 

The  other  phase  of  that  responsibility  is  the  perfecting  of  the 
saints.  Why  have  we  come  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the 
house  of  the  God  of  Jacob?  The  scriptures  tell  us  "that  we  might  learn 
of  his  ways  and  walk  in  his  paths." 

What  was  the  matter  with  the  earth  that  all  this  should  be  neces- 
sary? What  was  the  condition  that  prevailed?  The  prophet  Isaiah  clearly 
saw  in  vision  what  the  difficulty  was.   Said  he : 

"The  earth  is  defiled  under  the  inhabitants  thereof  because  they  have 
transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the  ordinance,  and  broken  the  everlasting  cove- 
nant." 

That  was  the  condition  that  prevailed  in  the  world,  and  to  a  very 
large  extent  it  still  prevails.  With  the  restoration  of  this  Gospel  our 
duties  are  clearly  outlined  in  the  revelations  that  have  been  given  through 
the  modern  prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  Let  me  quote  a  few  words  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  they  are  found  in  Section  88: 

"The  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man. 

"And  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul. 

"And  the  redemption  of  the  soul  is  through  him  that  quickeneth  all  things, 
in  whose  bosom  it  is  decreed  that  the  poor  and  meek  of  the  earth  shall  inherit  it. 

"Therefore,  it  must  needs  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness,  that  it  may 
be  prepared  for  the  celestial  glory." 

Here  it  is  very  plainly  pointed  out,  the  great  problem  that  we 
have  before  us.  This  world  that  is  defiled  under  the  inhabitants  thereof 
must  be  called  to  repentance.  They  must  turn  unto  the  Lord.  They 
will  not  all  do  it,  but  those  who  have  accepted  of  that  glorious  message 
and  have  been  brought  into  the  fold  of  Christ  are  expected  to  lay  hold 
of  eternal  life. 

From  these  passages  we  learn  that  these  souls  of  ours  are  consti- 
tuted of  a  spirit  and  a  body,  the  spirit  which  came  from  God,  begotten 
of  him  in  the  spirit,  and  a  body  which  we  receive  from  mother  earth. 
That  spirit  and  that  body  in  combination  constitute  the  soul  of  man. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


How  are  we  going  to  sanctify  this  earth  from  all  unrighteousness  ? 
Merely  by  sanctifying  the  souls  of  those  who  inhabit  it.  This  earth 
that  "is  denied  under  the  inhabitants  thereof"  for  the  very  simple 
reason  that  they  had  transgressed  the  laws  and  are  still  transgressing 
them,  for  the  very  reason  that  they  have  changed  the  ordinances,  broken 
the  everlasting  covenant,  the  covenant  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  that  new  and  everlasting  covenant  that  is  designed,  given  and 
revealed  unto  the  children  of  men  for  the  express  purpose  of  sancti- 
fying their  souls  from  all  unrighteousness — that  is  why  it  has  been 
revealed  from  heaven.  It  has  within  it  the  very  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  unto  the  sanctifying  and  purifying  of  our  souls. 

W!e  have  heard  during  the  sessions  of  this  Conference  of  many 
things  that  we  can  do.  There  is  the  wonderful  activity  that  is  going 
on  to  spread  a  knowledge  of  this  Gospel  among  the  children  of  men. 
After  we  have  received  the  Gospel  and  have  come  up  and  identified 
ourselves  with  the  people  of  God  are  we  sitting  supinely  by  and  think- 
ing that  the  Lord  will  do  the  rest  of  this  work  ?  We  read  in  these  passages 
that  the  redemption  of  our  souls  will  be  through  him  who  quickeneth 
all  things,  him  who  made  and  fashioned  the  universe,  who  made  every 
living  thing;  through  him  who  gave  us  life,  original  life — who  causes 
the  grass  to  grow  upon  the  earth,  the  insects  to  creep,  the  birds  to  fly, 
the  fish  to  swim,  the  beasts  to  roam  upon  the  field.  Through  him 
who  quickeneth  all  things,  and  created  man  in  his  own  image — even  our 
Creator.  Through  him  is  this  redemption  of  our  souls  to  take  place  and 
not  through  any  act  of  ours.  He  will  redeem  us.  From  what  ?  From 
death  and  the  grave.  But  there  is  something  for  us  to  do.  He  is 
our  Redeemer.  He  also  died  not  only  that  we  might  be  redeemed 
from  death  and  the  grave,  but  that  our  own  sins  might  be  blotted  out 
on  the  condition,  however,  of  our  obedience  to  his  plan.  Even  God 
could  not  save  and  redeem  us  from  our  own  sins  unless  we  repent  of 
them,  unless  we  do  our  part  and  sanctify  and  purify  our  souls.  There- 
fore it  behooves  us  that  we  shall  do  our  part  that  our  souls  may  be 
redeemed  from  the  consequences  of  our  own  sins. 

To  sanctify  and  purify  our  souls  from  all  unrighteousness  or  in 
other  words,  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  is  the  second  phase  of  this 
great  responsibility.  How  is  this  to  be  accomplished?  After  hearing 
the  words  of  the  Lord  and  believing  on  him,  and  ceasing  the  trans- 
gression of  his  laws,  restoring  the  ordinances  that  have  been  changed  to 
their  primitive  purity,  and  again  renewing  that  "everlasting  covenant" 
that  has  been  broken,  let  us  go  on  to  perfection.  How?  Let  me 
enumerate  a  few  of  the  things  which  have  been  revealed  for  this  express 
purpose : 

1.  The  law  of  tithing  has  been  mentioned  in  this  Conference. 
Avarice  is  a  soul-destroying  vice;  it  is  the  love  of  money  that  lies 
at  the  root  of  all  evil.  Obedience  to  this  law  lays  the  axe  at  the  very 
root  of  all  evil.  Observe  it  then  as  a  means  of  sanctifying  your  soul 
from  all  unrighteousness. 

2.  Remember  the  Sabbath  day  and  attend  your  sacrament  meetings 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


87 


as  a  means  of  spiritual  growth  and  with  clean  hands  and  pure  hearts 
partake  of  those  sacred  emblems  which  testify  to  our  faith  in  him  who 
died  upon  the  cross.  If  you  do  this,  you  are  eating  and  drinking  eternal 
life  into  your  very  souls. 

3.  A  Word  of  Wisdom  designed  for  the  health  of  the  body 
wherein  may  dwell  the  Spirit  of  God.  A  sound  mind  in  a  sound  body 
or  as  the  Latin  philosopher  puts  it:  "Mens  sana  in  corpore  sano".  It 
was  given  as  a  warning  against  present  day  evils,  clearly  shown  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  prophetic  vision,  and  also  with  a  promise  of  immunity 
against  the  destroying  angel. 

These  subjects  have  all  been  discussed  by  various  speakers  during 
this  Conference.  Let  me  call  your  attention  to  one  more  requirement 
which  if  properly  met,  will  surely  sanctify  our  souls  and  prepare  us 
for  the  celestial  glory.  I  refer  to  prayer.  The  Lord  has  commanded 
that  we  shall  pray  without  ceasing.  Does  he  really  mean  that?  Most 
assuredly  he  does.  The  Lord  gives  us  no  commandment  that  he  does 
not  mean.  Of  course  he  does  not  intend  that  we  shall  always  be 
on  our  knees  nor  unceasingly  speaking  words  of  prayer,  and  yet  he 
does  intend  that  we  shall  pray  without  ceasing.  Then  what  is  prayer  ? 
"Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire,  uttered  or  unexpressed,"  as  we 
sometimes  sing  and  have  sung  during  this  Conference.  The  real 
prayer,  the  true  prayer  is  a  condition  of  the  heart.  When  we  bow  the 
knee  and  offer  up  our  verbal  petitions,  we  are  giving  expression  to 
prayer  and  this  should  be  done  at  frequent  intervals,  every  morning 
and  every  night,  but  the  prayer  itself  is  in  the  heart  and  must  be 
constant  and  unceasing.  It  follows,  then,  if  our  prayers  are  to  be 
effectual  we  must  be  deeply  concerned  over  the  condition  of  our  hearts. 
What  is  lurking  there?  Watch  and  pray.  Are  our  desires  pure  and 
holy?  or  are  we  praying  for  the  sordid  things  of  this  world,  for  the 
gratification  of  our  evil  desires?  Be  sure  of  this  that  whatever  those 
desires  may  be,  whether  good  or  evil  they  will  surely  find  expression, 
for  "out  of  the  fulness  of  the  heart,  the  mouth  will  speak."  Be  careful 
then,  as  to  what  you  harbor  in  your  hearts. 

Prayer  is  a  daily  exercise  in  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  It  is  practicing  faith,  drawing  nigh  unto  God  that  God  may 
draw  nigh  unto  you;  it  is  practicing  repentance,  for  when  you  turn 
to  God  of  necessity  you  'turn  away  from  evil.  When  you  pray  you 
confess  your  sins  to  God  and  seek  forgiveness,  the  very  thing  for  which 
baptism  has  been  provided  in  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  surely 
we  seek  to  obtain  God's  Holy  Spirit,  even  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  has  been  sealed  upon  our  heads  by  the  laying  on  of  hands. 

The  Lord  has  taught  us  how  to  pray.  Pray  for  your  enemies  and 
those  that  despitefully  use  you.  Do  you  do  that?  I  don't  know  what 
effect  your  prayer  will  have  on  him  who  thus  despitefully  uses  you  but 
I  do  know  it  will  do  you  good  if  you  will  sincerely  pray  for  him. 
How?  It  will  cast  all  hatred  out  of  your  heart  and  make  you  a  better 
man  or  woman,  and  aid  you  in  keeping  that  great  commandment: 
"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."    But  how  can  I  love  my 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wicked  neighbor  who  mistreats  and  cheats  me  and  otherwise  despite- 
f  ully  uses  me  ?  Well,  the  Lord  didn't  say  you  should  only  love  your 
good  neighbor  but:  irrespective  of  whether  good  or  bad,  love  him  as 
you  do  yourself.  Let  me  ask :  Do  you  love  yourself  because  you  are 
good?  Not  so!  The  meaner  a  man  is  the  more  he  loves  himself.  And 
that's  exactly  what  makes  him  so  mean.  Some  people  say  their  prayers 
are  not  answered.  Perhaps  not  exactly  as  we  offer  them.  What  an 
unfortunate  thing  it  would  be  if  all  our  prayers  were  answered  in 
precisely  the  way  we  pray.  What  confusion  and  dismay !  It  would 
completely  upset  the  plan  of  the  Almighty.  Let  me  say,  however,  every 
true  prayer  offered  in  sincerity  will  be  answered  in  blessings  on  our 
heads.   "Ask  and  ye  shall  receive." 

Then  let  us  pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the  triumph  of  Zion, 
that  his  kingdom  may  come  and  his  will  be  done  on  earth  as  in  heaven ; 
for  our  daily  bread  or  the  things  we  stand  in  need  of  day  by  day ;  for  the 
forgiveness  of  our  trespasses  as  we  forgive  those  who  trespass  against 
us;  (how  vain  will  be  our  prayer  if  we  do  not  forgive  others)  that 
we  be  not  led  into  temptation  but  delivered  from  all  evil.  Let  this  be 
the  unceasing  prayer  in  our  hearts  and  as  sure  as  the  day  follows  the 
night  shall  our  souls  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness,  and  being 
thus  sanctified  we  shall  be  saints  in  very  deed  and  be  prepared  for  the 
celestial  glory. 

The  Lord  has  permitted  us  to  be  called  "Saints."  Are  we  that? 
Yes,  if  we  have  the  Spirit  of  God.  What  is  a  saint?  A  saint  is  a 
sanctified  being.  Then  let  us  cultivate  the  gift  that  is  within  us  which 
we  received  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the  Elders  of  this  Church, 
and  if  we  obtain  and  retain  this  gift  even  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
it  will  surely  lead  us  into  the  presence  of  God,  to  dwell  with  him  and 
his  Son,  to  whom  be  all  the  praise,  for  his  is  the  kingdom  and  the  power 
and  the  glory,  forever.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Temple  Block 

Mission 

As  I  reflect  on  what  has  been  said  at  this  Conference,  I  feel  more 
deeply  than  ever  before  that  communion  with  God  is  the  greatest  fact 
of  life.  All  our  words,  all  our  activities,  all  our  ideals  find  their 
meaning  here.  The  spirit  of  religion  is  not  the  burden  of  duties  that 
makes  life  prosaic,  but  it  is  a  personal  mystical  union  with  God,  to 
be  attained  each  man  for  himself.  It  is  a  knowledge  of  the  nearness 
of  God.  The  chief  characteristics  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are 
its  divine  truth  and  beauty.   In  Keat's  Endymion  is  this  lovely  thought : 

"A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever: 

Its  loveliness  increases.  It  will  never  pass  into  nothingness ; 
But  still  will  keep  a  bower,  quiet  for  us  and  a  sleep 
Full  of  sweet  dreams,  and  health,  and  quiet  breathing." 

The  Gospel  of  our  Lord  is  a  message  of  beauty,  and  a  joy  forever. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


89 


It  teaches  us  that  the  way  of  true  life  is  not  the  world's  way.  The 
Prophet  Joel  tells  us  in  sublime  words  that  "Ye  shall  know  that  I 
am  in  the  midst  of  Israel,  and  that  I  am  the  Lord  your  God,  and 
none  else :  and  my  people  shall  never  he  ashamed.  And  it  shall  come  to 
pass  afterward,  that  I  shall  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all  flesh ;  and  your 
sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy;  your  old  men  shall  dream 
dreams,  your  young  men  shall  see  visions." 

What  the  Christian  world  needs  today  is  to  know  Christ;  and  the 
world  can  only  know  Christ  by  its  coming  to  know  the"  living,  personal 
God,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and  all  things  therein.  He  is 
our  Heavenly  Father,  and  in  his  image  man  is  created.  Jesus  Christ 
came  to  redeem  us,  and  to  teach  us  the  divine  truth  of  eternal  life. 
Turning  to  the  American  scriptures,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  in 
the  years  to  come  will  be  more  widely  read  and  better  understood,  I 
read  these  words  as  recorded  by  the  prophet  Nephi : 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  there  were  a  great  multitude  gathered  together, 
of  the  people  of  Nephi,  round  about  i:he  temple  which  was  in  the  land  of 
Bountiful ;  and  they  were  marveling  one  with  another,  and  were  showing  one  to 
another  the  great  and  marvelous  change  which  had  taken  place. 

"And  they  were  also  conversing  about  this  Jesus  Christ,  of  whom  the  sign 
had  been  given  concerning  his  death. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  while  they  were  thus  conversing  one  with  another, 
they  heard  a  voice  as  if  it  came  out  of  heaven ;  and  they  cast  their  eyes  round 
about,  for  they  understood  not  the  voice  which  they  heard;  and  it  was  not  a 
harsh  voice,  neither  was  it  a  loud  voice ;  nevertheless,  and  notwithstanding  it 
being  a  small  voice  it  did  pierce  them  that  did  hear  to  the  center,  insomuch 
that  there  was  no  part  of  their  frame  that  it  did  not  cause  to  quake;  yea,  it 
did  pierce  them  to  the  very  soul,  and  did  cause  their  hearts  to  burn. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  again  they  heard  the  voice,  and  they  understood 
it  not. 

"And  again  the  third  time  they  did  hear  the  voice,  and  did  open  their  ears 
to  hear  it ;  and  their  eyes  were  towards  the  sound  thereof ;  and  they  did  look 
steadfastly  towards  heaven,  from  whence  the  sound  came. 

"And  behold,  the  third  time  they  did  understand  the  voice  which  they  heard; 
and  it  said  unto  them : 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have 
glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  understood,  they  cast  their  eyes  up  again 
toward  heaven;  and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  descending  out  of  heaven;  and  he 
was  clothed  in  a  white  robe ;  and  he  came  down  and  stood  in  the  midst  of  them ; 
and  the  eyes  of  the  whole  multitude  were  turned  upon  him,  and  they  durst  not 
open  their  mouths,  even  one  to  another,  and  wist  not  what  it  meant,  for  they 
thought  it  was  an  angel  that  had  appeared  unto  them." 

The  people  heard  and  cleansed  their  hearts  and  understood.  Then 
in  the  Holy  Bible  is  the  story  of  St.  John  concerning  the  resurrection 
of  Christ.  It  is  lovely  in  its  simplicity;  it  is  the  comforting  message 
of  the  ages. 

(Gospel  of  St.  John  20:1-19). 

"The  first  day  of  the  week  cometh  Mary  Magdalene  early,  when  it  was 
yet  dark,  unto  the  sepulchre,  and  seeth  the  stone  taken  away  from  the  sepulchre. 

"Then  she  runneth,  and  cometh  to  Simon  Peter,  and  to  the  other  disciple, 
whom  Jesus  loved,  and  saith  unto  them,  They  have  taken  away  the  Lord  out  of 
the  sepulchre,  and  we  know  not  where  they  have  laid  him. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Peter  therefore  went  forth,  and  that  other  disciple  and  came  to  the 
sepulchre. 

"So  they  ran  both  together;  and  the  other  disciple  did  outrun  Peter,  and 
came  first  to  the  sepulchre. 

"And  he,  stooping  down,  and  looking  in,  saw  the  linen  clothes  lying ;  yet 
went  he  not  in. 

"Then  cometh  Simon  Peter  following  him,  and  went  into  the  sepulchre,  and 
seeth  the  linen  clothes  lie, 

"And  the  napkin,  that  was  about  his  head,  not  lying  with  the  linen  clothes, 
but  wrapped  together  in  a  place  by  itself. 

"Then  went  in  also  that  other  disciple,  which  came  first  to  the  sepulchre, 
and  he  saw,  and  believed. 

"For  as  yet  they  knew  not  the  scripture,  that  he  must  rise  again  from  the 
dead. 

"Then  the  disciples  went  away  again  unto  their  own  home. 

"But  Mary  stood  without  at  the  sepulchre  weeping ;  and  as  she  wept,  she 
stooped  down,  and  looked  into  the  sepulchre. 

"And  seeth  two  angels  in  white  sitting,  the  one  at  the  head,  and  the  other 
at  the  feet,  where  the  body  of  Jesus  had  lain. 

"And  they  say  unto  her,  Woman,  why  weepest  thou?  She  saith  unto  them. 
Because  they  have  taken  away  my  Lord,  and  I  know  not  where  they  have  laid 
him. 

"And  when  she  had  thus  said,  she  turned  herself  back,  and  saw  Jesus  stand- 
ing, and  knew  not  that  it  was  Jesus. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her.  Woman,  why  weepest  thou?  whom  seekest  thou? 
She  supposing  him  to  be  the  gardener,  saith  unto  him,  Sir,  if  thou  have  borne 
him  hence,  tell  me  where  thou  hast  laid  him,  and  I  will  take  him  away. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Mary.  She  turned  herself,  and,  saith  unto  him, 
Rabboni ;  which  is  to  say,  Master. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Touch  me  not,  for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my 
Father :  but  go  to  my  brethren,  and  say  unto  them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father, 
and  your  Father :  and  to  my  God,  and  your  God. 

"Mary  Magdalene  came  and  told  the  disciples  that  she  had  seen  the  Lord, 
and  that  he  had  spoken  these  things  unto  her 

"Then  the  same  day  at  evening,  being  the  first  day  of  the  week,  when  the 
doors  were  shut  where  the  disciples  were  assembled  for  fear  of  the  Jews,  came 
Jesus,  and  stood  in  the  midst,  and  saith  unto  them,  Peace  be  unto  you. 

Down  through  the  ages,  people  have  sought  after  Christ;  some 
have  found  him.  But  the  new  contact  with  God  came  a  hundred 
years  ago  when  a  little  boy — a  pure  boy  and  filled  with  faith — went 
into  the  woods  to  pray  for  light  and  truth.  God  the  father  and  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son,  came  to  him.  Joseph  Smith  heard  the  message  of 
the  Father,  and  it  was  then  that  Jesus  Christ  became  a  living  reality. 
Man  had  again  been  brought  into  communion  with  God. 

This  fundamental  truth  is  at  the  very  foundation  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ;  and  it  takes  this  new  revelation  to  understand  life 
and  immortality.  When  the  world  will  open  its  heart  to  these  three 
historic  truths,  mankind  will  again  know  that  life  has  a  meaning,  and 
a  meaning  for  good.  Men  will  direct  their  lives  in  accordance  with 
God's  will,  and  come  unto  greater  faith  and  more  abundant  life. 
Knowledge  alone  cannot  solve  our  social  and  religious  problems ;  but 
knowledge  with  faith  in  God  can.  This  thought  is  beautifully  ex- 
pressed by  George  Santayana  of  Harvard  University: 

"O  world,  thou  choosest  not  the  better  part, 
It  is  not  wisdom  to  be  only  wise. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


91 


And  on  the  inward  vision,  close  the  eyes; 
But  it  is  wisdom  to  believe  the  heart. 
Columbus  found  a  world,  and  had  no  chart, 
Save  one  that  faith  deciphered  in  the  skies ; 
To  trust  the  soul's  invincible  surmise 
Was  all  his  science  and  his  only  art. 
Our  knowledge  is  a  torch  of  smoky  pine 
That  lights  the  pathway  but  one  step  ahead 
Across  a  void  of  mystery  and  dread. 
Bid  then,  the  tender  light  of  faith  to_shine 
By  which  alone  the  mortal  heart  is  led 
Unto  the  thinking  of  the  thought  divine." 

God  lives;  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  The  beauty  of  his  message  will  always  appeal  to  the 
children  of  men,  for  in  it  they  will  discover  that  there  is  an  infinite 
power  in  each  and  every  child  that  leads  him  to  the  meaning  of  life. 
A  new  era  opens  before  us,  and  if  we  will  pursue  the  path  that  has 
been  mapped  out  by  Christ  our  Lord,  we  will  grow  unto  perfection 
through  service  and  our  spirits  will  take  flight  to  more  distant  summits 
from  which  we  can  become  a  light  unto  mankind.  May  we  as  a  people 
take  new  courage ;  may  our  faith  in  the  message  of  the  Lord  increase 
and  deepen  from  day  to  day.  Amen. 

After  the  singing  by  the  congregation  of  the  hymn,  "High  On  the 
Mountain  Top,"  Elder  William  T.  Jack  pronounced  the  benediction, 
and  Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Every  seat  in  the  great  auditorium  and  galleries  of  the  Tabernacle 
was  taken,  and  every  available  space  in  the  aisles  was  occupied  Sunday 
morning,  October  5,  1930,  when  the  hour  for  beginning  the  fifth  session 
of  the  Conference  arrived.  Many  people  who  could  not  get  inside 
the  Tabernacle  found  seats  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  others  remained 
on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  services  as  they 
were  broadcast  by  radio. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  meeting  to  order  promptly  at 
10  o'clock,  and  announced  that  the  Choir  and  the  congregation  would 
sing  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

After  the  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Arthur  V.  Watkins, 
President  of  the  Sharon  Stake. 

A  duet  and  chorus,  "An  Angel  From  on  High,"  was  rendered  by 
Cyril  Martin  and  Ida  Hepworth,  and  the  Choir. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  want  to  express  my  thanks  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  priv- 
ilege I  have  of  attending  this  great  Conference.  If  the  people  of  the 
world,  who  think  that  Mormonism,  so-called,  is  losing  its  force  or  its 
membership,  could  but  stand  upon  this  platform  and  look  into  the  faces 
of  this  magnificent  audience,  their  doubts  or  apprehensions — or  wishes, 
in  many  cases — would  be  expelled. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  the  living  God.  I  know  that  the 
Church,  as  established  in  this  latter  day,  is  the  Church  spoken  of  by 
the  prophets  of  old,  and  I  know  that  the  destiny  of  this  Church  shall 
be  as  prophesied,  and  all  the  requirements  made  of  the  people  belonging 
to  this  Church  will  be  fulfilled.  Men  holding  the  Holy  Priesthood,  men 
holding  responsible  positions,  from  the  President  of  the  Church  down, 
will  fulfil  every  requirement,  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be 
preached  to  all  peoples  of  the  earth,  before  the  end  shall  come. 

INDIFFERENCE  OF  THE  WORLD  TOWARD  RELIGION 

There  is  an  indifference  manifested,  I  think,  throughout  the  world, 
toward  religion.  That  indifference,  it  seems  to  me,  is  growing;  I  am 
quite  sure  it  is  among  many  of  the  people  that  I  am  called  to  associate 
with.  They  deny  the  power  of  God.  They  deny  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood.  They  deny  even  the  work  of  the  Savior  and  his  mission 
here  upon  this  earth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  think  of  the  fact  that  the  Gospel 
has  been  established  upon  this  earth  for  a  hundred  years,  and  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  missionaries  have  been  sent  to  nearly  all  parts 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


93 


of  the  earth,  bearing  testimony  that  God  has  revealed  his  mind  and 
will  and  has  established  his  Church  again  upon  earth,  the  headway 
that  we  have  made  in  that  one  hundred  years  may  seem  small  to  some, 
but  the  seed  has  been  planted,  the  authority  of  God  has  been  conferred 
upon  man,  and  his  Church  organized ;  and  I  haven't  the  least  doubt 
that  every  revelation  that  has  been  given  concerning  it,  concerning  its 
work,  concerning  the  peoples  of  the  world,  will  be  fulfilled. 

Many  times  in  my  conversations  with  public  men,  they  deny, 
without  hesitation,  that  there  is  a  God.  They  deny  that  it  is  possible 
to  receive  a  revelation  from  God,  the  source  from  which  we  claim  to 
receive  revelations. 

"believe  the  works" 

I  often  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  time  when  Jesus 
himself  was  upon  the  earth,  and  of  the  statements  that  were  made  by 
him  to  the  Jews  as  to  his  coming,  his  mission,  his  authority.  They 
were  ready  to  stone  him;  and  we  find  the  Savior  answering,  upon  an 
occasion  of  that  kind,  as  follows : 

"If  I  do  not  the  works  of  ray  Father,  believe  me  not. 
"But  if  I  do,  though  ye  believe  not  me,  believe  the  works :  that  ye  may 
know,  and  believe,  that  the  Father  is  in  me,  and  I  in  him." 

So  say  I  to  the  world.  If  you  don't  believe  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  the  authority  to  speak  for  God 
or  for  man,  believe  in  the  works  of  its  members;  see  what  they  have 
accomplished;  see  what  character  of  men  and  women  the  Church  is 
composed  of. 

If  it  were  possible  I  would  like  to  have  such  men  upon  this  platform 
today  and  let  them  look  into  the  faces  of  this  magnificent  audience,  see 
and  hear  the  faith  expressed  by  the  servants  of  God.  I  would  like 
them  to  understand  that  every  one  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  will  say 
"Amen"  to  the  testimonies  that  have  been  given  during  this  Conference, 
and  have  faith  that  the  predictions  that  have  been  made  will  be  fulfilled. 

Have  you  noticed — I  certainly  have — that  active  members  in  the 
Church  seldom  apostatize?  That  is  natural.  They  are  interested  in 
the  work.  They  know  that  it  is  God's  work,  and  being  active  in  it, 
they  obey  the  commandments.  They  never  cease  to  pray  themselves. 
They  never  cease  to  have  family  prayers.  They  never  cease  endeavor- 
ing to  live  so  that  men,  seeing  their  works,  can  at  least  believe  that  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  an  influence  upon  their  lives. 

One  of  the  best  ways  in  the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel  is  by 
example,  and  many  times  you  can  reach  people  in  that  way  of  preaching 
that  you  could  not  in  any  other  way.  So  we  boldly  say  to  the  world :  If 
you  do  not  believe  in  the  professions  and  testimonies  made  by  us  as  to 
this  being  God's  Church,  his  power  made  manifest  in  the  organizations 
and  through  the  individuals  of  the  Church,  believe  the  works  of  this 
people ;  compare  their  labors  and  works  with  those  of  any  other  people 
upon  earth;  compare  their  honesty  with  that  of  any  other  body  of 
people  on  earth;  compare  their  loyalty  to  our  government,  with  the 
loyalty  of  any  other  people  on  earth. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SOMETIMES  A  LACK  OF  FAITH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  believe  and  we  know  that  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  when  it  is  manifested  in  the  life  of  an)'  man  or  woman, 
makes  him  or  her  a  better  citizen,  and  makes  him  or  her  more  loyal, 
no  matter  where  it  may  be.  Sometimes  some  of  us  may  lack  faith. 
I  think  perhaps  that  is  rather  natural,  for  as  I  read  the  scriptures  I 
find  that  men  in  the  favor  of  God  himself  sometimes  waver  a  little 
in  their  faith. 

May  I  call  your  attention  to  the  case  of  Gideon.  Gideon,  a  servant 
of  God,  holding  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God,  having  a  mission  to 
perform,  knowing  it  to  be  a  mission,  had  doubts ;  for  don't  you  re- 
member he  asked  of  God,  so  that  there  could  be  no  doubt  in  his  mind, 
that  a  sign  be  given  to  him,  namely,  that  a  fleece  of  wool  which  he 
would  place  upon  the  floor,  should  upon  the  morrow  be  wet  with  dew 
and  the  earth  all  about  it  be  dry.  And  through  the  goodness  of  God 
the  manifestation  was  made  to  him.  Even  then  Gideon  was  not  satis- 
fied, for  in  order  to  be  sure  that  the  requirement  was  one  for  him 
to  undertake,  he  then  requested :  "Please,  Heavenly  Father,  let  the  wool 
be  dry  and  upon  the  ground  let  there  be  dew."  And  with  all  patience 
it  was  so  granted  unto  him.    "Oh  ye  of  little  faith !" 

OUR  GREAT  MISSION 

I  want  to  say  at  this  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  feel 
just  as  sure  as  I  live,  that  every  requirement  made  by  our  God  has  been 
made  for  a  purpose,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  live  to  the  requirements  made 
by  this  Church ;  and  I  am  positive  that  the  God  of  heaven  will  bless 
those  who  fulfil  these  requirements. 

Of  course,  we  all  know  that  there  is  a  change  in  attitude  toward  our 
people.  I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  this  is  the  case, 
but  I  do  want  to  warn  the  people  that  if,  through  the  goodness  of 
God,  that  change  has  come,  and  we,  through  that  fact,  become  slackers 
in  his  Church,  it  would  be  a  great  loss  indeed.  Oh,  how  little  interest 
there  is  in  religion  today !  I  mean  a  religion  such  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  possess.  How  many  people  are  there  in  all  the  world,  outside  of 
the  Church,  that  will  testify  that  there  is  a  living  God,  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ?  Not  many  of  them. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  a  great  mission  to  perform. 
The  time  must  come  when  this  Gospel  will  be  preached  to  every  kindred, 
tongue  and  people  upon  the  earth.  I  have  often  wondered  how  that 
could  be  done,  but  modern  science  has  solved  that.  President  Grant 
can  stand  upon  this  platform  and  testify  and  his  voice  will  carry  to  the 
farther  ends  of  the  earth.  Who  knows  but  that  God  will  provide  that 
means  of  transmission  of  the  testimonies  regarding  God  and  his  work 
upon  this  earth,  in  order  that  the  Gospel  may  be  preached  to  every 
living  creature.  God  never  made  a  requirement  of  any  people  in  any 
age  of  the  world,  unless  he  provided  a  way  for  the  fulfilment  of  that 
requirement. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


95 


BLESSINGS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE 

The  greatest  gift  of  God  is  eternal  life.  Is  it  worth  living  for? 
Is  it  worth  sacrificing  some  of  the  pleasures  of  life  for?  To  me  it 
seems  that  it  is  worth  everything — eternal  life ! 

God  has  established  his  Church  in  this  dispensation.  He  has  made 
promises  to  his  people,  and  among  them  is  the  one  that  if  they  obey 
his  commandments,  if  they  live  according  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Master,  if  they  fulfil  all  the  laws  of  God  while  living  upon  this  earth, 
they  are  entitled  to  the  promised  blessing's  of  God. 

May  God's  blessings  ever  attend  his  Church.  May  it  grow  and 
increase  in  power  and  in  numbers,  and  may  our  lives  be  such  that 
people  who  come  in  contact  with  any  member  of  the  Church  will  know 
at  once  that  there  is  something  in  Mormonism  different  from  any  other 
religion.  A  thorough  investigation  will  reveal  that  this  difference 
lies  in  the  fact  that  we  are  members  of  the  Church,  that  we  believe 
in  its  principles ;  and  those  principles  are  the  ones  that  will  give  us 
eternal  life  if  we  will  live  them. 

May  the  people  of  the  Church  live  in  such  a  way,  and  may  we  all 
labor  to  the  end  that  every  prediction  made  by  the  prophets  of  God, 
as  to  this  last  dispensation,  shall  be  fulfilled.  God  grant  us  eternal 
life,  God  grant  us  wisdom  while  we  remain  upon  this  earth,  and  God 
grant  that  his  Church  may  grow  in  power  and  in  strength  and  in  in- 
fluence, and  reach  the  hearts  and  souls  of  all  honest  men  and  women 
in  the  world,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

'Second  Counselor  in  the  Eirst  Presidency 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  every  command- 
ment that  he  has  given  to  this  Church,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  makes  for  righteousness,  for  right  living,  for  better  citizenship ; 
makes  better  husbands,  better  wives,  better  children.  There  is  not  a 
single  thing,  a  single  thought  or  idea,  in  all  those  commandments, 
but  what  is  uplifting  and  for  the  bettering  of  humankind. 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  verses  from  (Solomon,  the  wise  man, 
contained  in  the  first  chapter  of  his  Proverbs,  commencing  at  the 
twenty-fourth  verse.  These  verses  of  scripture  seem  to  cover  the  situ- 
ation today  as  though  they  were  spoken  concerning  this  generation : 

"Because  I  have  called,  and  ye  refused,  I  have  stretched  out  my  hand, 
and  no  man  regarded ; 

"But  ye  have  set  at  naught  all  my  counsel,  and  would  none  of  my  reproof ; 

"I  also  will  laugh  at  your  calamity ;  I  will  mock  when  your  fear  cometh ; 

"When  your  fear  cometh  as  desolation,  and  your  destruction  cometh  as  a 
whirlwind ;  when  distress  and  anguish  cometh  upon  you. 

"Then  shall  they  call  upon  me,  but  I  will  not  answer;  they  shall  seek  me 
early,  but  they  shall  not  find  me; 

"For  that  they  hated  knowledge,  and  did  not  choose  the  fear  of  the  Lord. 

"They  would  none  of  my  counsel;  they  despised  all  my  reproof. 

"Therefore  shall  they  eat  of  the  fruit  of  their  own  way,  and  be  filled  with 
their  own  devices. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"For  the  turning  away  of  the  simple  shall  slay  them,  and  the  prosperity  of 
fools  shall  destroy  them. 

"But  whoso  hearkeneth  unto  me  shall  dwell  safely,  and  shall  be  quiet  from 
fear  of  evil." 

IN  A  CHANGED  WORLD 

The  old  order  changeth ;  the  new  world  is  upon  us.  We  live  today 
in  a  changed  world  from  even  thirty  years  ago.  At  the  beginning  of 
this  century — take,  for  example,  one  item — there  was  scarcely  an  au- 
tomobile seen  anywhere  in  the  United  States  at  that  time.  Only  thirty 
years,  within  the  memory  of  all  of  us,  and  yet  today  the  building  of 
automobiles,  the  opening  of  gas  stations,  with  stores  upon  every  street 
for  accessories  and  equipment,  employs,  I  suppose,  probably  four  or 
five  million  men.  That  is  to  say,  the  old  order  has  so  changed,  just  in 
thirty  years,  that  four  or  five  millions  of  men  are  employed  in  a  new 
occupation,  which  was  not  known,  or  scarcely  known,  thirty  years  ago. 
So  rapidly  do  we  move  in  these  days.  Necessarily  all  that  affects  our 
conditions  of  life.  It  affects  our  expense  account.  Automobiles  have 
now  become  necessities.  We  are  almost  compelled  to  have  them. 
Indeed,  the  working  man  goes  to  work  now  in  a  cheap  automobile  and 
can  well  afford  it  to  save  time  going  from  his  home  to  his  work. 

These  changes  affect  employment.  Especially  do  they  affect  em- 
ployment when  an  industry  of  that  kind,  going  at  full  blast,  stops  all 
at  once,  or  practically  stops ;  the  demand  ceases.  It  is  a  great  calamity 
come  upon  the  nation — maybe  it  isn't  a  calamity  at  all,  but  a  providence 
of  the  Almighty  to  stop  our  mad  rush  of  speculation,  in  which  stocks 
go  tumbling  to  the  bottom,  and  men  who  were  rich,  almost  beyond 
compare,  yesterday,  are  practically  penniless  today.  And  so  industry 
stops,  and  men  are  thrown  out  of  employment.  They  are  not  idlers. 
I  would  not  plead  for  the  idler,  for  one  of  the  revelations  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  says,  in  these  words : 

"The  idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  garment  of  the  laborer." 

THE  UNEMPLOYED  NEED  HELP 

We  do  not  approve  of  idleness.  In  our  Church  industry  is  one 
of  our  principal  doctrines :  "Work  out  your  salvation  in  fear  and 
trembling  before  the  Lord."  But  I  do  plead  for  those  who  are  out  of 
employment  at  this  time.  There  is  not  time  to  go  into  a  discussion  very 
fully  regarding  these  changes  that  come  about  so  quickly,  but  here  they 
are;  they  confront  us;  they  demand  solution.  The  best  we  can  do, 
temporarily,  is,  as  the  President  of  the  United  States  has  pointed  out, 
for  our  municipalities,  our  counties,  our  states,  and  civic  organizations, 
to  do  everything  they  can  to  put  in  motion  some  work,  that  men  who 
are  willing  to  work  may  find  employment. 

The  Lord  tells  us,  in  another  revelation,  that  men  ought  to  be 
diligently  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  without  being  commanded.  We 
ought  not  to  wait  till  the  bishop  asks  us,  or  till  the  President  of  the 
Church  asks  us  to  do  something  to  help  relieve  this  situation,  to  try  to 
help  our  neighbors  and  our  friends. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


97 


Whoever  can  do  anything  in  the  way  of  providing  employment 
for  this  poor  person  who  has  no  work,  ought  to  do  it  without  waiting 
to  be  asked;  for  "He  who  waits,"  the  Lord  says,  "to  be  commanded 
in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant." 

Let  every  man  and  every  woman  who  can  do  anything  do  so. 
We  nearly  all  can  contribute  something  towards  relieving  this  situation  ; 
and  let  me  say,  even  the  poor  can  help,  for  after  all  is  said  and  done, 
it  is  the  poor  who  help  the  poor,  generally  speaking ;  it  is  not  the  rich. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  try  to  do  what  we  can  to  see  that  employment 
is  furnished  for  those  who  are  out  of  employment,  and  who  perhaps 
are  in  absolute,  abject  need.    They  should  be  taken  care  of  some  way. 

NATIONS  PERPLEXED 

Now,  I  have  probably  spoken  as  long  as  I  should.  I  feel  a  great 
concern  in  respect  to  this  matter.  I  see  changes  coming  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  I  see  the  perplexities  of  nations.  England  is  per- 
plexed today  over  this  situation ;  so  is  Germany ;  Our  own  country,  too. 
War  is  still  extant ;  there  is  one  at  this  moment  in  China ;  an  uprising 
in  India,  and  also  in  Turkey.  Wars  are  going  on  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth.  We  may  think  that  wars  have  ceased,  that  peace  is  here. 
But  not  so.  There  is  perplexity  of  nations.  This  is  one  of  the  signs 
of  the  end,  of  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man.  The  warning  is  that 
"Nations  should  be  in  commotion  and  perplexed"  because  of  the  sit- 
uations arising  which  the  wisest  of  statesmen  can  scarcely  solve. 

The  scripture  I  read  at  the  beginning  says:  "The  prosperity  of 
fools  shall  destroy  them.  But  whoso  hearkeneth  unto  me  shall  dwell 
safely  and  shall  be  quiet  from  fear  of  evil." 

However,  we  can  help  to  solve  our  own  little  affairs  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  by  being  kind  to  each  other,  by  con- 
sidering our  neighbors.  My  brother,  my  sister,  I  have  sympathy,  and 
we  should  have  sympathy,  and  do  have,  I  am  sure. 

HOW  TO  HELP  THE  POOR 

The  Lord  help  us  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  sustain  it, 
to  pay  our  tithes  and  our  offerings.  If  we  would  just  pay  our  fast 
offerings  once  a  month,  if  the  five  hundred  thousand  of  our  people  in 
the  United  States  would  only  pay  thirty  cents  a  month  per  capita  on 
fast  day,  that  alone  would  be  $150,000  a  month,  or  in  ten  months 
$1,500,000.  With  that  we  would  have  abundance  to  give  to  the  poor 
whose  necessities  are  demanding  attention. 

Now  let  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  and  build  up  his  kingdom.  Let  us  love  the  Lord  our  God, 
seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,  and  all  things 
needful  shall  be  granted  unto  us.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  will  be  pleased  to  hear  next  from  Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark. 
Brother  Clark  has  just  been  appointed  Ambassador  to  Mexico.  All 
Utahns  are  proud  of  the  honor  that  has  come  to  one  of  our  citizens. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  indeed  an  honor  to  be  asked  to  say 
a  few  words  to  you  this  morning.  I  recall  a  statement  that  was  made 
by  the  great  Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser.  He  said :  ''There  are  two  occasions 
in  a  man's  life  when  it  becomes  him  to  say  little.  The  one  is  at  the 
beginning  of  his  work,  and  the  other  at  the  end  of  it."  I  stand  at  the 
beginning  of  my  new  work. 

I  am  proud  and  grateful  for  my  ancestry.  I  am  proud  and  grate- 
ful for  my  association  with  you.  I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony 
which  has  come  to  me  of  the  truth.  I  pray  that  always  there  shall 
be  with  me  the  Spirit  of  God. 

As  President  Grant  has  said,  I  am  to  be  appointed  American 
Ambassador  to  Mexico.  I  have  had  some  residence  in  that  country, 
and  I  have  come  to  have  for  that  people  a  sympathy  and  a  love  I  have 
not  felt  for  any  other  people. 

Mexico  is  our  neighbor.  We  should  treat  Mexico  as  a  neighbor. 
The  great  Mosaic  law  which  had  in  it  the  doctrine,  "An  eye  for  an  eye 
and  a  tooth  for  a  tooth,"  taught  also :  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself."  On  that  great  day  in  the  Temple,  during  the  last  week 
of  the  Savior's  mission  on  this  earth,  when  they  were  trying  to  tempt 
him  into  some  kind  of  a  confession  upon  which  they  could  base  a 
prosecution,  a  lawyer  asked  him  what  were  the  great  commandments, 
and  he  replied: 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself." 

James,  in  his  epistle,  speaks  of  the  law,  "Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself"  as  the  "royal  law"  and  while  we  are  accustomed 
sometimes  to  think  that  nations  do  not  deal  one  with  another  on  such 
a  basis,  I  may  be  permitted  to  say  that  the  fundamental  principle  of 
international  conduct,  international  relationship,  and  law,  is  that  you 
shall  ask  the  other  nation  to  do  nothing  which  you  are  not  yourself 
willing  to  do,  and  that  you  shall  complain  about  nothing  which  the 
other  nation  does  and  which  you  yourself  do. 

When  John  Adams  went  to  Paris  to  assist  Franklin  and  Jay  and 
Lawrence  in  the  negotiation  of  the  treaty  of  peace  with  Great  Britain 
at  the  end  of  our  Revolutionary  War,  he  found  them  involved  in  a 
discussion  as  to  whether  or  not  they  should  pay  the  debts  that  were  due 
to  the  Tory  colonists.  When  the  matter  was  presented  to  him  he  said 
that  he  wanted  the  Tories  paid,  that  he  had  "no  notion  of  cheating 
anybody." 

What  we  thus  said  in  our  pride  as  a  young,  new-born  nation  surely 
we  can  say  now  that  we  have  the  power  and  the  strength  that  has  come 
to  no  other  nation  during  the  whole  history  of  mankind. 

God  grant  that  there  comes  to  me  in  my  work — for  I  go  to  it  with 
something  of  a  knowledge  of  what  it  means — his  Spirit  to  guide  me,  that 
I  may  represent  the  people  of  the  United  States  adequately  in  my  life, 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK 


99 


in  my  attitude,  in  my  work.  God  give  to  me  the  faith  and  the  prayers 
of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  able  to  perform  my 
mission  honorably,  I  ask  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

Upon  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  the  Choir  and  con- 
gregation arose  and  sang  the  first  and  last  verses  of  "America." 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  tthe  Church 

I  regret,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  through  some  trouble  that 
is  not  yet  discovered,  the  amplifiers  on  the  public  address  system  are 
not  serving  satisfactorily  this  morning.  The  technicians  are  working 
actively  to  try  to  discover  just  what  the  trouble  is.  Apparently,  the 
cables  leading  from  this  building  to  the  panel  have  been  affected  by 
steam  in  the  tunnel,  and  there  has  been  some  short  circuit  which  has 
interfered  with  the  effective  transmission  of  the  energy. 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  this  splendid  Conference,  and  I  am  tre- 
mendously impressed  with  the  sight  of  this  magnificent  audience.  1 
hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  speak  in  such  a  way  that  I  can  be  heard. 
I  rejoice  in  my  membership  in  the  Church.  I  appreciate  the  considera- 
tion and  kindness  shown  me  by  the  First  Presidency,  the  other  General 
Authorities,  presidencies  of  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards,  mission  presi- 
dents and  the  members  generally  in  my  labors. 

DESTINY  OF  THIS  WORK 

I  have  absolute  confidence  in  the  destiny  of  this  great  work. 
What  is  that  destiny?  It  is,  as  I  see  it,  to  bring  to  the  people  of  the 
earth,  everywhere,  living  faith  in  God  and  to  promote  righteous- 
ness, truth  and  peace.  Yet  there  are  people  who,  for  some  unknown 
reason,  seem  to  fear  that  the  fulfilment  of  the  destiny  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  would  threaten  the  welfare  of  other  peoples.  Can  there  be  any 
question  as  to  the  fact  that,  if  the  destiny  is  as  I  have  stated  it,  it  is 
only  for  the  advancement  of  mankind  generally?  There  is  in  the 
heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  nothing  but  the  best  of  feeling  toward 
all  men.  For  we  are  all  desirous  that,  as  we  have  received  the  light 
and  message  of  the  Gospel,  others  also  may  receive  it ;  even  as  many 
as  are  willing  to  listen  thereto,  and  to  receive  of  the  blessings  which 
follow  acceptance  and  observance  thereof. 

WELFARE  OF  CHURCH  MEMBERS 

We  have  been  favored  with  splendid  instructions  by  all  those  who 
have  spoken  in  Conference  thus  far.  There  have  been  discussed  various 
problems  that  affect  the  welfare  of  this  people;  and  not  only  of  this 
people  but  of  mankind.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  am  sure,  because 
I  have  occasion  to  have  some  contact  with  them,  that  the  First  Presi- 
dency are  vitally  concerned  with  the  welfare  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint,  and,  for  that  matter,  of  mankind  everywhere;  and  that  they 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  concerned,  not  only  with  the  spiritual,  but  also  with  the  temporal 
and  material  progress  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

MATERIAL  AFFAIRS,  PART  OF  OUR  RELIGION 

Understanding,  as  we  do,  that  we  are  eternal  beings,  and  that 
we  have  come  upon  this  earth  for  an  important  purpose,  and  that  in 
our  mortal  state  we  must  live,  eat,  wear  clothing,  and  partake,  to 
some  extent,  at  least,  of  the  comforts  and  conveniences  of  life,  we 
appreciate  the  fact  that  material  and  temporal,  as  well  as  spiritual, 
things  are  a  part  of  the  Gospel.  This  is  particularly  so  if  we  cultivate 
in  our  hearts  the  idea  that  all  that  we  obtain,  all  that  we  have,  all 
that  we  do,  we  are  doing  and  using  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory 
of  God,  and  to  the  advancement  of  his  work.  If  we  can  get  that 
spirit  in  our  hearts  and  minds,  we  shall  realize  the  fact  that  material 
and  temporal  things  are  a  part  of  our  progress  and  development, 
while  here  upon  the  earth  in  preparation  for  eternity. 

INJUNCTION  TO  WORK 

One  of  the  problems  that  is  confronting  us  at  the  present  time, 
in  common  with  the  rest  of  mankind,  is  that  of  unemployment  and 
the  decrease  in  industry.  From  the  earliest  history  of  mankind,  we 
learn  that  in  the  days  of  Adam  the  Lord  gave  him  this  injunction : 
"In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread."  Later  on,  in  the  time 
of  Moses,  the  Lord  declared  to  his  people,  in  regard  to  the  Sabbath 
Day:  "Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do  all  thy  work,  but  the  seventh 
is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God.   In  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work." 

WORK  DAYS  PER  WEEK 

So,  since  there  was  one  day  for  rest,  there  were  six  days  for 
labor.  In  the  meantime,  with  the  growth  of  industry,  many  of  those 
engaged  therein  have  gotten  the  idea  at  times  that  seven  days  per  week 
are  necessary  for  work.  Consequently,  many  industries  have  been 
working  regularly  seven  days  a  week,  and  preventing  their  employees 
from  enjoying  the  fruits  of  the  Sabbath  Day,  when,  as  a  matter  of 
fact  they  could,  in  many  instances,  limit  their  work  to  six  days. 
But  nowadays,  with  the  increased  development  in  mechanical  ap- 
pliances and  equipment,  men  are  coming  back  to  the  realization  that 
six  days  a  week  is  sufficient,  and  that  even  a  five-day  week  may  be 
advantageous.  Thus,  men  may  be  able  to  earn  enough  in  five  days 
per  week,  due  to  improved  conditions  in  industry,  when  they  are 
working  properly;  so  that  they  would  have  two  days  for  leisure 
and  for  worship. 

NECESSITY  OF  WORK 

Now,  I  say,  the  importance  of  work  has  been  stressed  not  only 
in  previous  ages  of  the  world's  history,  but,  also,  more  extensively  in 
this  period.  The  Lord  has  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
as  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  instruction  that  labor 
is  necessary  for  mankind,  as  one  of  the  fundamentals  in  our  progress 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  101 


in  this  life  and  throughout  eternity.  The  Lord  has  specifically  de- 
clared: "Thou  shalt  not  be  idle;  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the 
bread  nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer."  That  involves  physical 
and  mental  labor,  and  it  involves  also  labor  in  a  spiritual  sense. 

VALUE  OF  WORK 

Thomas  Carlyle  declared:  "Blessed  is  the  man  that  has  found 
his  work.  Let  him  ask  no  other  blessedness."  Again,  J.  H.  Patterson 
says :  "It  is  only  those  who  do  not  know  how  to  work  that  do  not  love 
it.  To  those  who  do  it  is  better  than  play ;  it  is  religion."  A  certain 
artist  says,  regarding  success:  "The  greatest  single  element  in  any 
one's  career  is  work.  This  is  the  despot  that  escorts  you  to  the  winning 
post."  Another  writer  declares — "Work!  Thank  God  for  the  might 
of  it,  the  ardor,  the  urge,  the  delight  of  it.  Thank  God  for  a  world 
where  none  may  shirk,  thank  God  for  the  splendor  of  work."  I  am 
sure  that  every  one  of  us  who  has  labored,  and  does  labor,  has  ap- 
preciated the  value  of  work  and  the  importance  of  it ;  that  it  is  a  part 
of  our  lives;  that  it  develops  us.  It  develops  our  physical  strength. 
It  develops  our  mental  keenness.  It  gives  us  courage.  Stimulates 
desire  for  achievement.  It  inspires  in  us  consideration  for  our  fellow 
men.  Every  one  of  us  is  expected  to  labor,  to  learn  the  value  of 
labor,  to  appreciate  the  joys  of  achievement,  and  the  benefits  that 
come  therefrom. 

RESULTS  OF  LABOR 

When  we  consider  the  tremendous  results  that  have  occurred 
through  the  ingenuity  of  mankind,  and  through  the  application  of 
that  ingenuity  to  the  production  of  commodities  that  make  for  progress 
and  development,  and  provide  comforts  and  conveniences,  we  can  ap- 
preciate the  wonderfully  beneficial  results  of  labor  from  the  material 
standpoint.  I  am  reminded,  by  the  way,  when  we  speak  of  ingenuity 
and  inventiveness,  that  we,  in  America  think  we  are  in  the  forefront. 
I  noticed,  however,  recently,  that  America  stands  only  about  seventh 
or  eighth  in  the  matter  of  inventiveness.  The  little  country  of  Switzer- 
land stands  first  of  all  the  nations  in  inventiveness,  Germany  next, 
France  next,  and  so  forth. 

RIGHT  TO  WORK 

Now,  as  it  is  necessary  that  men  should  work,  and  as  they  have 
been  enjoined  to  labor,  as  idleness  has  been  condemned  as  being  un- 
fruitful and  tending  to  degradation  and  demoralization,  at  the  same 
time,  it  follows  that  there  ought  to  be  the  opportunity  to  work.  Every 
man  has  the  right  to  work,  and  some  provision  should  be  made  whereby 
he  can  obtain  work.  In  earlier  days  men  were  able  largely  to  provide 
their  own  employment.  In  ancient  days  people  lived  simply,  choice 
land  was  freely  available,  men  had  their  flocks  and  herds,  and  they 
cultivated  the  land  to  the  extent  that  they  found  it  necessary  in  order 
that  they  might  draw  therefrom  a  sustenance. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SPECIALIZATION 

Nowadays,  with  the  complexity  of  civilization,  it  is  not  so  easy 
always  for  men  to  secure  employment.  With  this  increase  in  com- 
plexity of  industry  and  of  civilization  men  are  learning  special  trades 
and  professions.  It  is  a  day  of  specialization.  One  of  the  Brahmanist 
proverbs  says,  with  regard  to  trades  and  the  importance  of  them: 
"The  parent  that  does  not  teach  his  child  a  trade,  teaches  him  to  be 
a  thief."  Whether  that  be  true  or  not,  the  fact  is  that  with  present 
conditions  the  learning  of  trades  and  the  application  of  those  trades 
to  industry  is  of  great  importance. 

man's  stewardship 

If  those  who  labor  have  in  their  minds  appreciation  of  the  fact 
that  that  which  they  do  and  the  opportunity  that  is  given  to  them 
to  work  is,  in  fact,  a  blessing  from  God ;  that  of  the  things  that  they 
acquire,  since  they  are  only  tenants  here  upon  the  earth,  part  at  least 
really  belongs  to  the  Lord ;  and  if  they  cultivate  that  appreciation,  they 
will  then  be  willing,  if  they  are  taught  the  principle,  to  observe  the 
law  of  tithing  which  has  been  discussed  this  morning,  and  at  other 
times  during  this  Conference,  which  means  the  giving  of  one-tenth 
of  the  product  of  one's  labor  and  of  one's  increase  to  the  Lord,  for 
the  promotion  of  righteousness,  truth  and  faith.  Where  people  observe 
that  principle  they  receive  blessings. 

TIT HEPAYERS  AND  EMPLOYMENT 

In  connection  with  that,  and  this  question  of  unemployment,  I 
am  reminded  of  a  statement  made  by  President  William  R.  Sloan, 
of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.  He  stated,  the  other  day,  that 
through  a  careful  investigation  made  in  his  mission,  it  was  shown 
that  in  the  case  of  every  full  tithepayer,  there  was  not  one  who  had 
lost  his  job  in  the  midst  of  this  depression.  Every  one  of  those  who 
were  paying  full  tithing  has  been  able  to  retain  his  work.  Is  that, 
to  you,  any  evidence  of  the  benefits  that  come  through  the  observance 
of  tithing?  That  is  not,  however,  the  primary  purpose  of  tithing.  The 
primary  purposes  are  to  train  us  in  obedience,  to  help  us  to  overcome 
selfishness,  to  give  of  our  service  and  our  means  to  the  building  up 
of  the  work  of  God,  and  to  the  extension  of  these  things  which  make 
for  the  welfare  of  mankind. 

ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS 

I  need  not  discuss  with  you  in  detail  the  present  economic  con- 
ditions. We  realize  what  they  are.  Our  staple  industries  in  this  state 
and  in  other  parts  of  the  country  are  depressed  tremendously  because 
of  the  low  prices  of  those  products.  Wheat,  wool,  sugar,  and  the 
metals,  which  affect  us  directly,  are  low  in  price.  They  are  affected 
by  over-production,  decrease  of  demand,  and  lack  of  proper  distribu- 
tion. The  result  is  depression  and  resulting  unemployment.  It  has 
been  suggested,  and  it  seems  to  me  a  very  desirable  thing,  that  there 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


103' 


should  be  provision  made  by  the  government  for  the  registration 
of  all  those  who  are  not  employed,  and  special  efforts  made  to  try 
to  provide  employment  for  them.  There  are  positions  and  jobs  open, 
in  some  instances,  that  might  be  filled  by  those  who  are  most  worthy, 
if  their  names  and  the  kind  of  work  that  they  are  able  to  do  were 
available. 

STIMULATION  OF  INDUSTRY  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

It  is,  of  course,  a  very  desirable  thing  that  industries  should  be 
stimulated  in  this  locality  and  other  localities,  where  possible,  to  take 
the  raw  materials  and  to  produce  manufactured  goods  therefrom  that 
are  in  demand.  In  connection  therewith,  any  possible  construction  that 
can  be  done  at  this  season  of  the  year  and  during  the  winter  time,  in 
order  to  save  trouble  and  suffering  to  those  who  are  out  of  employment 
at  the  present  time,  would  be  very  helpful.  I  want  to  indorse  the  recent 
editorials  in  the  Deseret  News  and  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tribune,  with 
regard  to  the  urging  of  construction  work  that  can  properly  be  under- 
taken during  this  fall  and  winter,  by  the  cities,  counties,  and  states,  to 
the  end  that  those  who  are  out  of  employment  may  be  able  to  get  some 
help,  at  least,  in  that  direction. 

HOW  THE  CHURCH  CAN  HELP 

How  can  the  Church  help  in  this  respect?  The  Church  has  been 
charged  with  being  materialistic.  Now,  the  Church  is  not  in  a  position, 
as  it  used  to  be  when  it  practically  occupied  this  community  entirely,  to 
undertake  public  works.  But  it  can  help  in  trying  to  put  members  of  the 
Church  in  contact  with  opportunities  for  jobs.  There  can  be  no  ob- 
jection, surely,  on  the  part  of  any  one  to  that.  We  should  not  undertake 
to  open  employment  offices  for  people  generally,  because  that  is  not 
our  function,  but  we  are  justified  in  trying  to  contact  with  those  who 
need  employment,  among  the  members  of  this  Church,  and  to  help  them. 

HELP  MEMBERS  TO  HELP  THEMSELVES 

It  is  our  business  also,  as  bishoprics  of  wards,  to  see  that  no  one 
suffers.  The  Church  is  carrying  a  heavy  responsibility  to  see  to  it  that 
none  of  the  active  members  of  the  Church  suffers  for  the  necessities 
of  life.  But  in  all  of  this,  the  effort  of  the  Church  authorities,  the 
bishops,  presidents  of  the  stakes,  and  relief  societies,  is  to  help  people 
to  help  themselves.  The  policy  is  to  aid  them  to  become  independent,  in 
order  to  be  able  to  serve  and  to  help  to  build  up  the  Church,  as  well 
as  the  community,  rather  than  to  have  to  depend  upon  the  Church 
for  assistance.  Yet  in  times  of  need, — and  there  are  such  times  that  come 
to  many  people — the  Church  properly  steps  in  and  undertakes  to  help 
them,  and  to  bring  into  action  other  agencies  which  can  help  to  promote 
better  conditions  and  the  avoidance  of  suffering. 

EMPLOYMENT  BUREAU 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  there  have  been 
suggestions  made  whereby,  in  every  community  throughout  the  Church 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


where  there  is  unemployment,  conditions  can  be  improved.  In  this 
city  the  presidencies  of  the  six  city  stakes,  and  the  bishoprics  of  the 
wards  have  organized  the  Deseret  Employment  Bureau, — a  central 
head — where  members  of  the  Church  in  these  stakes  can  come  to  seek 
employment.  They  are  first  registered  and  the  necessary  information 
obtained  regarding  their  addresses,  qualifications,  references,  and  mem- 
bership, and  then  those  in  charge  seek  to  find  employment  for  them. 
The  result  has  been  that  out  of  about  1800  men  who  have  registered 
there  for  the  nine  months  of  this  year,  about  1200  have  secured  some 
employment.  Also,  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  which  has 
an  employment  bureau  for  women,  has  done  at  least  as  much  in  the 
way  of  getting  employment  for  women  and  girls  during  the  same 
period.    Surely,  that  is  a  very  helpful  thing. 

EMPLOYMENT  PLAN 

But  that  is  not  all.  These  six  city  stakes  and  the  wards  included 
therein  have  undertaken  not  only  to  provide  a  control  employment 
bureau  as  a  place  of  final  reference  after  local  efforts  have  been  ex- 
hausted, but  they  have  undertaken  to  organize  in  each  ward  an  em- 
ployment committee,  consisting  of  a  high  priest,  a  seventy,  and  an 
elder,  together  with  a  relief  society  member,  under  the  direction  of 
the  bishopric.  This  committee's  function  is  to  seek  out  those  in  the 
ward  who  are  out  of  employment,  list  their  names,  addresses,  and 
qualifications,  and  then  in  connection  with  all  the  priesthood  members 
in  the  ward,  to  try  to  place  them  in  contact  with  employment.  If 
the  priesthood  are  unable  to  get  employment  for  them,  then  they  are 
recommended  to  the  control  bureau,  which  represents  the  stake  agency. 

RESULTS  IN  MAR  VISTA  WARD 

In  this  connection,  I  want  to  just  briefly  tell  you  what  is  being- 
done  in  one  of  the  wards  in  California,  which  is  carrying  out  this 
very  thing.  Brother  Orson  Hewlett  told  this  story  of  the  Mar  Vista 
ward  in  Los  Angeles.  They  have  a  committee  of  this  kind.  Every 
Tuesday  evening,  when  they  hold  their  priesthood  meeting,  those  who 
are  out  of  employment  are  asked  to  raise  their  hands,  their  names  and 
addresses  are  taken,  and  the  kind  of  work  they  can  do  noted.  Then 
if  there  is  any  one  there  who  can  suggest  any  opening  for  them — 
and  there  are  often  opportunities  that  men  know  of  right  there  in  that 
meeting — they  are  referred  to  those  places.  After  these  names  are 
taken,  this  committee  and  others  of  the  priesthood  undertake  to  try 
to  find  them  employment.  The  report  is  that  splendid  results  have 
been  obtained.  Not  only  that,  but  the  complete  census  of  that  ward 
has  been  taken  and,  in  connection  therewith,  there  have  been  listed, 
in  type-written  form,  the  names,  addresses,  and  kind  of  work  that 
those  who  are  out  of  employment  can  perform.  The  result  is  that 
they  are  making  headway  and  helping  in  that  way  to  relieve  suffering 
and  avoid  trouble  and  distress.  I  am  sure  that,  if  the  priesthood 
quorums  throughout  the  various  wards  of  the  Church  will  carry  out 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


105 


this  plan  wherever  unsatisfactory  conditions  prevail,  a  great  improve- 
ment will  be  manifest. 

BENEFITS  TO  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

We  notice  from  the  Deseret  Employment  Bureau  reports  that 
the  applications  for  employment  in  the  last  few  months  have  decreased 
somewhat.  Whether  or  not  that  is  due  to  the  fact  that  employment 
conditions  are  improving,  I  am  not  prepared  to  say.  However,  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  if  all  the  wards  and  stakes,  where  any  unem- 
ployment is  found,  will  organize  these  priesthood  committees  for 
welfare  work  and  for  employment,  and  if  the  relief  societies  will 
also  organize  for  this  purpose,  as  is  being  done  in  many  of  the  wards, 
that  a  great  deal  of  trouble  will  be  overcome.  The  priesthood  quorums 
throughout  the  Church  will  help  materially  in  putting  the  man  in  con- 
tact with  the  job,  thereby  providing  gainful  effort,  and  overcoming  the 
necessity  of  providing  charity.  In  addition  thereto,  the  indirect  benefits 
accruing  therefrom  to  the  various  priesthod  quorums  will  produce 
a  finer  social  atmosphere,  develop  a  greater  cooperative  spirit,  promote 
brotherly  love  and  fraternal  fellowship,  increase  attendance  at  priest- 
hood meetings,  increase  tithes  and  offerings,  and  produce  splendid 
brotherhood. 

I  appreciate  the  blessings  and  privileges  of  the  Church.  I  realize 
the  fact  that  there  is  divine  guidance  through  the  inspiration  given 
to  those  who  lead  this  Church.  I  pray  that  we  may  sustain  them, 
and  labor  together  diligently,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  are  four  brethren  who  have  returned  from  missions  who 
have  not  yet  reported — Brother  Andrew  Johnson  from  the  Swedish 
Mission,  Brother  J.  A.  Cahoon  from  the  Tongan  Mission,  Brother 
Hyrum  W.  Valentine  from  the  German-Austrian  Mission,  and  Brother 
Edward  P.  Kimball  from  the  German-Austrian  Mission.  We  will 
ask  these  brethren  if  they  are  here  to  come  to  the  stand  and  address 
us,  occupying  not  more  that  ten  minutes  each  in  their  remarks.  Brother 
Valentine  will  be  the  next  speaker  after  the  Choir  sings  the  first  hymn 
in  our  hymn  book,  entitled,  "The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows  Flee." 

This  hymn  occupies  a  place  of  honor  in  our  hymn  book,  and  I 
think,  justly.  Brother  George  Careless,  a  former  leader  of  the  Choir, 
composed  the  music.  As  there  are  only  twenty  lines  to  the  hymn,  I 
am  going  to  take  the  time  to  read  it  all. 

"The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee  ; 
Lo !  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled. 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day, 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

"The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine; 
The  glory  bursting  from  afar, 
Wide  o'er  the  nations  soon  will  shine. 


.106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"The  Gentile  fulness  now  conies  in. 
And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand ; 
Lo!  Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  from  sin, 
Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand. 

"Jehovah  speaks !  let  earth  give  ear, 
And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live ; 
His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 
His  covenant  people  to  receive. 

"Angels  from  heaven  and  truth  from  earth 
Have  met  and  both  have  record  borne ; 
Thus  Zion's  light  is  bursting  forth, 
To  bring  her  ransomed  children  home." 

The  Choir  then  sang-  the  hymn,  "The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows 
Flee." 

ELDER  HYRUM  W.  VALENTINE 

Former  President  of  the  German- Austrian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  assure  you  that  I  feel  that  this 
is  a  very  signal  honor  for  me,  but  I  feel  tremendously  weak  and 
most  humble  in  this  responsible  position. 

I  have  enjoyed  exceedingly  the  spirit  of  this  Conference.  I 
have  been  thrilled  with  the  messages  that  have  been  borne  in  upon 
us,  and  I  give  myself  willingly  over  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
that  I  too  may  be  the  means  of  adding  to  or  emphasizing  the  messages 
that  we  have  already  received. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  my  membership  in  this  Church,  and  I 
have  been  made  to  say  frequently  and  recently  that  I  believe  the  time 
has  long  since  passed  when  we  should  speak  of  the  duties  and  obli- 
gations that  rest  upon  us,  as  members  and  workers  in  this  great  and 
glorious  service ;  for  I  believe  that  it  is  not  so  much  a  duty,  and  not 
so  much  an  obligation  that  is  resting  upon  us,  but  it  is  a  divine  privilege 
and  opportunity  to  be  a  member  of  this  Church ;  and  the  greatest 
blessing  that  can  ever  come  to  us  in  this  world  or  in  the  world  to  come, 
is  to  be  called  upon  to  render  service  in  this  great  and  glorious  cause. 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  such  a  testimony  in  my  heart,  and  I  pray  that 
he  may  give  me  the  power  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
and  blessings  that  are  afforded  me  in  this  divine  work. 

We  will  not  know  the  divinity  of  this  work  except  by  participa- 
tion therein.  I  have  often  said,  and  I  desire  to  repeat,  that  of  all 
people  in  the  world  we  are  the  six  or  seven  hundred  thousand  who, 
if  the  opportunity  were  given,  and  if  it  were  made  possible  for  all  to 
speak  with  one  voice,  would  be  able  to  rise  upon  our  feet  and  say, 
"I  know  this  is  the  work  of  God" — a  literal  fulfilment  of  the  promise 
of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  when  he  said:  "They  that. do  the  will 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine."  And  I  say  the  six  or  seven  hundred 
thousand  people  that  we  have  as  members  of  this  Church  can  rise 
and  say  that  they  know  of  themselves  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 


ELDER  HYRUM  W.  VALENTINE  107 


May  we  press  on,  and  may  we  realize  that  there  are  specific  things 
that  we  must  do,  and  not  only  be  members  of  the  Church,  in  order  to 
realize  the  growth,  the  progress,  the  opportunity,  the  blessings  that  are 
ours  in  this  great  work,  through  our  activity  and  participation.  Where 
in  all  the  world  is  there  such  an  opportunity  for  work  and  service  for 
boys  and  girls,  little  children,  adults,  and  those  who  are  advanced  in 
years,  as  in  this  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints? 

This  organization  has  sometimes  been  compared  with  the  German 
army.  It  should  not  be  compared  with  any  army  or  any  navy,  but  it 
should  be  contrasted.  This  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God,  the 
perfection  of  an  organization  for  growth,  for  progress,  for  develop- 
ment, for  construction;  whereas  an  army,  a  navy,  is  an  organization 
that  may  be  effective,  it  may  be  efficient,  but  if  it  is  it  is  effective  and 
efficient  for  destruction  and  disintegration.  And  for  that  reason  the 
two  cannot  be  compared,  but  contrasted. 

Thank  God  for  our  membership!  Thank  God  for  our  leaders! 
Thank  God  for  the  divinity  that  is  characterized  in  every  activity  of 
this  work !  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true  and  diligent 
and  energetic,  grasping  our  opportunities,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  EDWARD  P.  KIMBALL 

Former  President  of  the  German- Austrian  Mission 

I  am  deeply  appreciative  of  this  honor,  although  I  face  this  re- 
sponsibility with  timidity,  realizing  that  the  time  of  the  General  Con- 
ference is  so  valuable.  However,  if  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  aid  me  in  expressing  some  of  the  things  that  have  been  in  my  heart 
during  the  sessions  of  this  Conference,  I  sincerely  hope  that  the  few 
minutes  I  occupy  will  not  be  wasted. 

Naturally,  when  one  returns  from  the  mission  field,  his  thoughts 
are  on  missionary  work,  and  mine  are  on  missionary  work,  particularly 
during  this  Conference.  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  admonitions  that  I  have 
heard  the  brethren  give  with  regard  to  better  missionary  work. 

I  should  like  to  make  a  plea  this  morning  in  behalf  of  the  at  least 
thirty-eight  thousand  Saints  who  are  in  the  European  missions.  These 
are  the  only  people  I  know  in  the  mission  field.  I  realize  that  if  we 
could  take  our  charge  more  seriously,  if  we  could  begin  earlier  in  the 
preparation  of  our  missionaries,  we  could  bring  a  great  blessing  to 
those  people.  This  thought  was  never  brought  home  to  me  as  directly 
and  emphatically  before  as  it  was  about  one  year  ago,  in  a  city  in 
Germany. 

In  the  German-Austrian  Mission  we  are  doing  missionary  work 
in  ninety-one  fields.  In  these  ninety-one  fields  there  are  seventy-two 
organized  branches,  and  thirty-three  of  these  organized  branches  are 
entirely  in  the  hands  of  the  local  priesthood.  President  Widtsoe  is 
laying  great  stress  upon  the  desirability  and  the  advisability  of  giving 
our  brethren  and  sisters  in  those  missions  the  same  opportunity  for 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


development  which  has  been  given  to  us  by  activity  in  the  quorums  and 
organizations.  He  is  pointing  out  to  the  missionaries  and  to  the  Saints 
that  all  the  officers  and  the  leaders  of  this  Church  have  been  men  and 
women  who  have  come  up  from  the  ranks,  who  have  come  up  from 
the  common  people. 

W!e  are  beginning  to  realize  in  those  missions  that  it  is  not  possible 
for  all  to  come  to  Zion.  I  rejoiced  when  a  letter  went  out  from  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  a  year  ago,  urging  the  mission  presidents 
and  missionaries  to  encourage  our  people  to  remain  in  the  missions, 
to  develop  themselves  there,  and  to  build  up  the  Church.  In  reading 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord  I  have  been  thrilled  to  find  that  it  was  never 
the  intention  that  the  Saints  should  all  come  here.  I  have  come  to  a 
conclusion  that  it  is  not  intended  by  the  Lord  that  there  shall  be  two 
types  of  Latter-day  Saints — one  type  in  the  missions,  who  are  under 
certain  restrictions,  and  a  different  type  here  at  home. 

I  maintain,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  a  group  of  men 
and  women  who  have  accepted  the  Gospel  in  the  same  way  we  have  are 
ninety  per  cent  faithful  in  the  payment  of  their  tithing ;  when  they  are 
more  than  that  faithful  in  the  keeping  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  when 
they  are  ninety-five  per  cent  faithful  in  attending  their  meetings,  the 
promise  which  was  made  by  the  Lord  in  the  133rd  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  will  become  operative  in  their  behalf,  namely,  that 
in  the  days  when  the  missionaries  should  be  sent  out,  the  people  of  the 
world  should  hear  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  in  their  own  tongue,  by 
those  who  are  ordained  to  this  work — not  necessarily  men  who  are  sent 
from  the  center  stakes  of  Zion. 

About  a  year  ago  we  called  one  of  our  fifteen  young,  full-time 
German  missionaries  upon  a  mission.  He  comes  from  a  large  branch. 
His  father  has  been  in  the  Church  about  thirty-five  years,  and  has 
borne  the  Melchizedek  priesthood  for  probably  twenty-five  years. 
The  young  man  was  born  in  the  Church.  I  had  the  opportunity,  six 
months  after  he  went  into  the  field,  of  visiting  a  conference  in  the 
branch  from  which  he  comes.  His  father  naturally  was  interested  to 
know  what  kind  of  a  record  his  son  was  making,  and  when  I  told 
him  that  the  boy  was  measuring  up  in  every  manner  to  the  responsibility 
of  missionary  work,  he  replied  something  like  this :  "Why  shouldn't  he? 
Before  you  call  our  boys  on  missions  they  must  have  a  testimony  of 
the  Gospel.  They  must  keep  the  commandments,  including  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  the  law  of  tithing.    They  must  attend  all  their  meetings." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters  the  day  of  the  make-shift,  temporary, 
front  trench  organization  in  the  missions  is  past,  at  least  it  is  in  the 
European  missions,  and  the  mission  from  which  I  come  is  moving 
rapidly  toward  permanency.  We  desire  soon  to  put  before  the  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  a  building  program.  We  desire  that  our  Saints 
there  shall  have  the  same  privilege  of  worshiping  in  desirable  places 
that  you  have.  I  don't  believe  that  the  Lord  is  a  respecter  of  persons, 
either  in  or  out  of  the  Church.  I  don't  believe  that  he  intends  that  you, 
here  in  the  shadow  of  the  temples,  shall  worship  in  marble  palaces, 


ELDER  EDWARD  P.  KIMBALL 


109 


and  that  our  brethren  and  sisters  over  there  shall  always  worship  in 
stables  and  vacated  factory  buildings. 

The  thing  that  we  are  trying  to  do  now  is  to  develop  them  along 
the  lines  of  self-government,  and  I  am  proud  to  testify  to  you  that  in 
the  thirty-three  branches  where  the  local  brethren  have  charge  of  the 
work  we  are  making  marvelous  progress.  I  say  to  the  credit  of  my 
predecessor,  Brother  Valentine,  that  we  have  built  upon  the  sure  foun- 
dation which  he  laid. 

•  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  says :  "To  some  it  is  given  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  that 
he  was  crucified  for  the  sins  of  the  world;  to  others  it  is  given  to 
believe  on  their  words."  And  I  believe  that  if  the  members  of 
this  Church  went  down  into  their  own  experiences,  into  their  own  hearts, 
they  would  find  that  their  testimony  has  come  to  them  more  through 
believing  on  the  words  of  those  who  do  know.  I  maintain  that  it  is 
possible  for  every  man  and  woman  to  have  a  testimony.  I  don't  believe 
that  we  should  allow  our  young  people  to  be  converted  to  this  Gospel 
through  the  flesh.  It  cannot  be  done.  Give  them  all  the  education  we 
want;  give  them  all  the  logic  and  the  science  it  is  possible  to  get,  the 
same  as  Paul ;  but  even  Paul,  when  he  was  left  merely  to  the  workings 
of  the  flesh,  was  not  a  servant  of  the  Lord.  It  was  only  when  the 
finger  of  God  touched  his  heart  that  he  received  his  testimony. 

I  believe  that  missionaries  are  made  in  the  homes.  I  believe  that 
our  brethren  and  sisters  should,  in  their  lives,  set  an  example  of  right- 
eousness before  their  children,  so  that  by  the  time  these  children  reach 
the  age  when  our  young  people  are  ordinarily  called  on  missions,  they 
may  not  only  know  according  to  the  flesh,  according  to  the  mind,  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  but  that  their  hearts  shall  be  touched  with  a 
testimony  which  will  lead  them  to  go  out  into  the  world,  seeking  first 
the  kingdom  of  God,  desiring  to  know  whether  God  lives  and  whether 
this  work  should  come  to  all,_and  knowing  when  it  is  given,  that  it  is 
going  to  transform  the  lives  of  those  into  whose  lives  it  has  come, 
as  it  has  done  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of  cases. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  Saints  that  there  is  no  desirable  or 
honorable  profession  or  business  in  this  world  in  which  a  man  cannot 
reach  the  utmost  heights  and  still  remain  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I  thrilled 
when  I  heard  that  a  full-souled,  converted  Latter-day  Saint  had  been 
appointed  Ambassador  to  Mexico.  I  thrill  when  I  think  that  an  Apostle 
of  the  Lord,  on  an  equal  footing  with  every  other  citizen  in  this  land, 
stands  at  the  head,  practically,  of  the  influence  in  the  Senate. 

I  tell  you,  as  I  look  over  the  Church  and  as  I  look  at  the  missionary 
work  today,  the  work  of  the  Lord  needs  the  best  brains,  the  best  heart, 
and  the  best  testimony  that  can  be  had.  If  we  are  gaining  in  respect 
in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  there  is  a  greater  responsibility  upon  us. 
Roosevelt  spoke  a  powerful  truth,  a  few  years  ago,  when  he  said :  "The 
greatness  of  the  fathers  becomes  to  the  children  a  shameful  thing  if 
they  use  it  only  as  an  excuse  for  inaction,  instead  of  as  a  spur  to  effort 
for  nobler  aims." 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  of  the  younger  generation,  let 
us  not  sell  our  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage.  Let  us  rise,  and  raise 
the  standard,  and  show  those  who  have  gone  before  us  that  even  in  our 
days  of  affluence,  even  in  our  days  of  plenty,  even  in  our  days  of  ease, 
it  is  still  possible  for  a  testimony  to  burn  within  the  heart  of  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  in  this  day,  as  in  the  days  of  the  other  generations  that  have 
gone  before  us. 

Let  us  not  live  in  the  past.  That  is  what  is  the  matter  with  the 
nations  and  the  churches  of  the  world  today.  They  are  living  in  the 
past.  We  have  done  wonders  in  the  last  hundred  years,  but  if  we 
want  to  know  what  the  Church  is  going  to  arrive  at  in  the  next  hundred 
years,  I  can  give  you  the  key :  Look  now  into  your  own  hearts ;  look 
into  the  lives  and  the  testimonies  of  your  boys  and  girls,  and  you  shall 
see  what  the  Church  is  going  to  accomplish  in  the  next  hundred  years. 

God  give  us  the  power  and  the  disposition  to  train  our  boys  and 
girls  into  a  knowledge  that  the  work  of  the  salvation  of  mankind  has 
been  committed  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  as  an  organization 
God  grant  this,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  Spirit  and  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  to  express  my  gratitude  for  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  for 
the  mercy  and  blessings  of  the  Lord  that  I  am  able  to  be  present 
upon  this  occasion,  to  enjoy  in  a  degree  the  blessings  of  health  and  to 
enjoy  the  teachings  and  testimonies  of  my  brethren.  I  am  pleased  to 
see  this  house  filled  with  those  who  are  not  here  to  be  seen  of  men, 
but  to  serve  the  living  God,  and  to  receive  further  strength  and  en- 
lightenment to  honor  him  in  the  work  that  is  sacred  and  important  in 
this  day  and  time. 

HAPPINESS  THROUGH  BLESSINGS  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

For  some  reason  or  other  there  has  never  come  into  my  life  that 
happy  privilege  which  has  come  to  many  of  the  missionaries  of  going 
into  the  world  and  seeing  people  hearken  unto  their  testimonies  and 
come  from  a  world  of  darkness  into  a  new  world  of  light  and  under- 
standing. But  it  has  come  to  my  heart  to  be  happy  when  I  hear  the 
testimonies  of  my  brethren,  for  I  realize  that  joy  has  come  to  their 
hearts  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  their  humble  words 
in  defense  of  truth  and  righteousness.  So  I  share  with  them  the 
great  joy  of  seeing  our  brethren  and  sisters  accept  the  truth  and  come 
out  of  the  world — all  the  nations  and  kindreds  and  tongues  of  the 
world — fulfilling  the  great  promises  of  our  Lord  in  gathering  his 
children  to  the  truth. 

STRIVE  FOR  PEACE 

I  am  grateful  for  the  peace  that  exists  in  the  Church  today.  It 
has  always  been  my  pride  to  he  a  peacemaker,  and  to  abhor  contention 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


111 


and  strife.  I  would  like  to  bespeak  for  the  Church  a  greater  degree  of 
peacemaking.  Wje  should  all  be  peacemakers,  every  one  of  us,  first 
with  ourselves,  in  our  homes,  and  then  with  our  neighbors.  I  bespeak 
for  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  further  degree  of  energy  and  dili- 
gence in  the  preparation  for  peace  in  our  own  homes  and  in  our  own 
hearts.  Then  the  strength  of  our  testimonies,  through  our  works, 
will  continue  to  grow  and  bear  fruit,  even  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  war 
and  contention  may  be  around  us. 

MAKING  A  PROPER  USE  OF  OUR  AGENCY 

I  realize  also  that  it  is  our  right  to  do  as  we  please ;  in  other  words, 
we  have  our  agency.  The  Lord  has  never  taken  it  from  us,  and  I 
am  of  the  opinion  that  he  never  will,  so  long  as  we  do  as  we  please  in 
a  manner  that  will  not  interfere  with  any  one  else  in  his  right  to  do  as 
he  pleases.  Yet  we  should  be  wise,  prudent,  and  careful  in  the  use 
of  our  agency.  We  are  naturally  prone  to  do  the  things  that  we  know 
how  to  do  and  the  things  that  we  like  to  do.  We  get  into  the  habit 
of  doing  things,  sometimes  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  we  know  better 
than  we  do.  We  know  'we  should  do  better.  We  know  we  should 
do  differently  than  we  do,  yet  we  know  we  have  our  agency.  There- 
fore, I  sincerely  admonish  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  strive  more  dili- 
gently to  do  the  thing's  they  know  best  to  do,  and  then  strive  to  do 
better  all  the  time  the  right  thing. 

I  have  heard  it  said  and  preached  that  there  are  many  among  us 
who  pray:  "Oh  Lord,  help  us  to  be  right,  for  our  minds  are  already 
made  up."  That  is  largely  due  to  the  fact  that  we  are  in  the  habit 
of  doing  about  as  we  please.  I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  you 
go  to  your  homes,  after  this  Conference,  that  you  will  do  very  much  as 
you  please,  but  please  be  more  careful,  more  prayerful,  more  humble, 
and  more  willing  to  do  the  things  you  have  been  taught,  the  things 
you  know  are  better  than  your  own  way,  even  better  than  you  have 
ever  done  in  the  past.  By  this  means  we  will  all  grow  in  the  spirit 
of  brotherly  love,  in  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  spirit  of  peace. 

THE  WORK  OF  THE  LORD 

I  realize  that  the  time  is  well  spent,  but  this  is  a  glorious  privilege 
to  stand  here  and  look  into  the  faces  of  thousands  of  my  brethren  and 
sisters  who  'I  am  sure  know  as  well  as  J  do  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  There  is  nothing  in  all  the 
world  today  more  wonderful  than  the  work  of  the  Lord,  especially 
the  work  which  has  been  entrusted  to  the  hands  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Every  part  of  my  body,  every  bit  of  strength  that  I  possess,  every 
atom  of  my  being,  bears  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
In  fact,  I  know  nothing  else  in  all  the  world  so  well  as  I  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  pray  for  greater  strength,  greater  courage, 
a  ■  greater  degree  of  obedience,  that  I  may  go  forth  with  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  live  in  such  a  manner  as  to  enjoy  the  blessings 
the  Lord  has  in  preparation  and  in  store  for  us. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BLESSINGS  THROUGH  KEEPING  COMMANDMENTS 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  through  the  spirit  of  testi- 
mony that  fills  my  soul,  that  the  Lord  is  not  going  to  leave  us,  nor 
this  people,  without  his  blessings.  If  you  will  use  your  agency  in 
honoring  him,  through  keeping  his  commandments,  he  will  bless  you 
in  your  homes,  in  your  stores,  in  your  fields,  in  your  places  of  business. 
He  will  bless  your  herds  and  your  cattle  and  your  folds.  He  will  bless  you 
in  all  your  righteous  endeavors  to  do  good ;  he  will  open  up  the  way  be- 
fore you,  that  you  may  have  a  greater  desire  to  share  with  others,  and  to 
prepare  your  sons  and  daughters  to  go  upon  missions  in  defense  of  his 
work,  in  a  spirit  of  true  unselfishness.  I  know  that  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  are  rich  in  preparation  for  the  faithful  of  Israel,  both  scattered 
and  gathered,  and  I  pray  that  his  Spirit  and  blessings  may  continue 
to  grow  in  your  hearts  and  be  at  your  hand,  that  you  may  serve  and 
honor  him  and  be  in  very  deed  what  you  profess  to  be. 

I  bless  you  and  promise,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  whatever 
capacity  you  are  called  to  labor,  whether  at  home  or  abroad,  peace, 
contentment,  and  a  greater  degree  of  courage  will  come  to  you  in  your 
work. 

THE   NEEDY  AND  UNEMPLOYED 

I  pray  also  that  the  Lord  will  bless  those  who  are  unemployed, 
that  through  a  spirit  of  willingness  to  work  and  to  share  they  may 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  peace  and  the  opportunity  to  provide  their  necessities. 
I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  all  the  needy,  and  leave  none  to  suffer  unjustly 
or  unnecessarily.  As  his  servant,  I  bless  the  Church  to  this  end,  that 
in  the  Church,  through  using  the  powers  which  God  has  given  us,  we 
may  not  suffer  nor  allow  our  neighbors  to  suffer  unjustly,  nor  un- 
necessarily. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  and  continue  to  inspire  those  whom 
he  has  called  to  lead  Israel,  from  his  servant,  the  President  of  the 
Church,  down  to  the  least  and  last  one  called,  whether  in  the  priesthood, 
in  the  auxiliary  organizations,  in  the  temples,  in  the  schools,  in  the 
fields  or  shops,  in  the  offices,  or  wherever  they  are  called  to  labor. 

I  bless  the  Church  and  those  who  are  working  honestly  and  willingly 
to  honor  and  serve  the  Lord  in  righteousness  and  truth,  that  in  their 
hearts  peace  may  abide,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  appeared  in  the  Deseret  News  last  night,  occupying  nearly 
an  entire  column,  a  list  of  influential  citizens  who  are  engaged  in 
marking  Utah  Pioneer  trails — landmarks  along  the  trails.  We  would 
like  all  of  our  people  to  take  interest  in  this  matter.  It  is  something" 
that  every  citizen  of  Utah  should  be  interested  in,  without  regard  to 
creed  or  religion.  We  are  pleased  to  see  many  of  the  most  influential 
men  of  the  City  and  State  engaged  in  this  movement. 

We  would  like  every  one  to  remain  in  this  building  after  the 


PRESIDENT  WEBER  J.  GRANT 


113 


benediction  until  the  Choir  has  withdrawn  and  become  stationed  in  the 
place  where  they  are  to  sing  for  the  Movietone  News.  Their  singing 
is  to  be  heard  probably  by  about  thirty  million  people  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  talking  pictures.  The  Fox  Movietone  people  are 
here  to  take  the  picture. 

I  wish  to  say  that  we  are  obtaining  most  marvelous  and  wonderful 
response  from  the  broadcasting  by  radio  of  the  singing  of  the  Choir 
and  the  renditions  on  the  Organ  every  Monday  afternoon.  We  have 
received  letters  from  all  oyer  the  country  giving  expressions  of  delight 
regarding  these  recitals.  The  broadcasting  company  that  has  charge 
of  this  work  has  written  to  us  expressing  delight  and  appreciation. 
It  is  no  small  thing  for  our  Choir  and  our  Organ  to  be  heard  all  over  the 
United  States.  This  advertises  Salt  Lake  City  in  a  most  remarkable 
way.  We  are  grateful  to  the  radio  broadcasting  people  for  giving 
us  this  privilege.  We  are  grateful  for  the  loyalty  of  our  Choir  and 
our  organists  for  giving  their  services  in  these  special  recitals.  We 
are  thankful  to  the  employers  of  Choir  members  for  releasing  them 
to  come  here  and  give  those  broadcasts,  and  I  say  without  fear  of 
contradiction  that  they  are  one  of  the  greatest  advertisements  for  Salt 
Lake  City  that  could  possibly  be  had.  In  fact  we  know  that  other  cities 
(I  won't  mention  the  names  of  any  of  them)  are  complaining  and 
asking  for  the  same  privilege,  but  they  do  not  happen  to  have  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  nor  do  they  have  the  great  Tabernacle 
Organ.    But  they  would  like  to  advertise  their  own  towns. 

An  anthem,  "The  Song  of  the  Redeemed,"  was  rendered  by  the 
Choir,  led  by  Evan  Stephens,  the  former  leader  of  the  Choir  and 
composer  of  the  music  to  this  anthem. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  F.  Bowman. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  meeting  of  the  101st  Semi-Annual  Conference  was 
held  Sunday,  October  5,  1930,  at  2  o'clock,  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
presiding. 

The  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  and  thousands  of  people 
listened  to  the  radio  broadcast  of  the  services,  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  upon  the  Tabernacle  grounds. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints." 

Elder  Henry  H.  Rolapp  offered  the  opening  prayer. 
The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire 
is  Burning." 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

It  has  been  a  pleasure  to  share  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  instruction  and  inspiration  of  these  Conference  meetings.  Some  of 
the  meetings  have  not  been  broadcast,  some  of  the  best.  Last  evening, 
for  instance,  we  had  very  wise  and  rich  instructions  from  the  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church  and  from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  each 
of  those  four  individuals,  and  again  this  morning  at  the  Assembly  Hall 
at  the  M.  I.  A.  gathering  where  our  President  spoke  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  and  was  very  greatly  blessed. 

I  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  the  Canadian  missionary  re- 
union last  evening,  and  I  was  a  bit  late  in  getting  around  to  the  As- 
sembly Hall  meeting  this  morning,  but  did  get  there  in  time  to  hear 
President  Grant.  He  spoke  of  the  wonderful  instruction  contained  in 
the  Era,  particularly  some  of  the  short  editorials.  I  read  one  a  short 
time  ago  entitled  "The  Disappearing  God."  That  title  is  one  that  had 
been  used  in  an  article  published  in  Scribner's  for  June,  in  which  the 
author,  Mr.  Henswood  Ward,  in  his  concluding  sentence  said: 

"The  God  that  used  to  hear  my  prayers  is  disappearing,  is  being  nebulized 
out  of  existence  by  the  Holmes,  the  Ameses  and  Millikins." 

Mr.  Ward  refers  to  a  book  written  by  a  former  minister  and  now 
the  editor  of  a  Christian  magazine  and  says : 

"After  I  have  read  it  I  can  think  of  nothing  but  the  massacre  of  God  that 
is  being  made  by  the  best  religious  thought  of  the  day." 

The  editor  of  the  Era  goes  on  to  say  that  a  great  educator  from 
California,  standing  near  the  Seagull  Monument  and  listening  to  the 
story  of  how  the  seagulls  saved  Utah,  remarked :  "I  can  believe  that 
the  Almighty  intervened  to  save  a  people  as  prayerful  as  were  the 
pioneers." 

Then  he  went  on  to  say : 

"The  trouble  with  the  world  today  is  that  to  be  considered  educated  a  man 
must  know  all  about  the  gods  of  mythology,  but  he  need  know  nothing  whatever 
about  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  the  true  and  living  God." 

And  so  the  world  today  does  not  believe  very  strongly  in  a  personal 
God,  although  there  are  some  Christians  who  are  coming  to  believe 
in  a  personal  Deity.  There  are  too  many  of  them  that  believe  in  that 
God  expressed  by  the  Russian  poet  Derzhaven : 

"O  Thou  Eternal  One  whose  presence  bright 

All  space  doth  occupy,  all  motion  guide; 
Unchanged  through  time's  all  devastating  flight! 

Thou  only  God — there  is  no  God  beside! 
Being  above  all  beings !  Mighty  One, 

Whom  none  can  comprehend  and  none  explore, 
Who  fill'st  existence  with  thyself  alone — 

Embracing  all,  supporting,  ruling  o'er; 

Being  whom  we  call  God,  and  know  no  more." 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


115 


Not  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament,  nor  the  God  of  the  New  Test- 
ament.   Not  the  God  of  John,  as  recorded  in  his  first  chapter: 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the 
Word  was  God. 

"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,"  etc. 

It  is  not  the  God  of  Paul,  as  described  in  the  first  chapter  of 
Hebrews,  first  three  verses : 

"God,  who  at  sundry  times  and  in  divers  manners  spake  in  time  past  unto 
the  fathers  by  the  prophets, 

"Hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto  us  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath  ap- 
pointed heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he  made  the  worlds ; 

"Who  being  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  and  the  express  image  of  his  person, 
and  upholding  all  things  by  the  word  of  his  power,  when  he  had  by  himself 
purged  our  sins,  sat  down  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  on  high." 

Paul  is  considered  even  a  little  "off"  by  some  modern  Christians. 
It  was  an  eye  specialist  to  whom  I  took  one  of  our  missionaries  for 
special  treatment  who  characterized  Apostle  Paul  as  a  neurotic — Paul, 
of  whom  it  was  eloquently  said  by  Bossuet:  "He  went  into  polished 
Greece,  the  mother  of  oratory  and  philosophy,  and  there  established 
more  churches  than  Plato  had  acquired  disciples,  by  an  eloquence  that 
was  thought  divine.  He  pushed  his  conquests  still  further.  Rome 
even  listened  to  his  voice.  He  brought  the  majesty  of  the  Roman  fasces 
to  the  feet  of  Jesus  in  the  person  of  a  proconsul ;"  then  the  declaration 
is  made  that  the  day  would  yet  come  "when  her  citizens  would  deem 
themselves  more  honored  by  an  epistle  of  St.  Paul  addressed  to  them 
than  by  all  the  far-famed  harangues  delivered  in  the  forum  by  Cicero." 

In  stopping  at  the  home  of  Daniel  Webster  while  passing  through 
a  part  of  our  mission  territory,  in  the  State  of  New  Hampshire,  I 
found  this  sentiment  being  distributed,  a  declaration  of  the  man  who 
is  voted  by  Harvard,  the  oldest  university  in  America,  as  being  one 
of  the  seven  great  orators  of  the  world : 

"I  love  to  dwell  on  the  tender  recollections,  the  kindred  ties,  the  early 
affections,  and  the  touching  narratives  and  incidents  which  mingle  with  all  I 
know  of  this  primitive  family  abode.  1  weep  to  think  that  none  of  those  who 
inhabited  it  are  among  the  living ;  and  if  I  ever  fail  in  affectionate  veneration  for 
him  who  reared  it  and  defended  it  against  savage  violence  and  destruction, 
cherished  all  the  domestic  (virtues  beneath  its  roof,  and  through  the  fire  and 
blood  of  seven  years  revolutionary  war,  shrank  from  no  danger,  no  toil,  no 
sacrifice,  to  serve  his  country,  and  raise  his  children  to  a  condition  better  than 
his  own,  may  my  name  and  the  name  of  my  posterity  be  blotted  forever  from 
the  memory  of  mankind." 

So  if  our  Brother  Kimball  takes  just  pride  in  doing  honor  to  his 
distinguished  father,  we  can  understand  that  that  is  a  sentiment  which 
the  American  people  approve  as  shown  in  purchasing  at  a  high  price 
the  few  lines  from  the  great  orator  which  il  have  just  read  to  you. 

Joaquin  Miller,  the  poet  of  the  Sierras,  paid  one  of  the  finest 
tributes  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  has  been  paid  to  them,  in  his 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Roundelay  of  Salt  Lake,"  and  apologized  for  some  disparaging 
words  that  he  had  written  against  them  in  earlier  years.  He  said  of 
the  pioneers  of  the  middle  west : 

"But  I  say  to  you  there  is  nothing  in  the  pages  of  history  so  glorious,  so 
entirely  grand,  as  the  lives  of  these  noble  Spartan  fathers  and  mothers  of 
Americans,  who  begot  and  brought  forth  and  bred  the  splendid  giants  of  the 
generation  that  is  now  fast  following  the  setting  sun  of  their  unselfish  and  all 
immortal  lives." 

I  thought  this  morning  in  the  M.  I.  A.  gathering  when  I  witnessed 
those  splendid  young  people  coming  forth  from  that  meeting,  and  1 
knew  there  were  many  thousands  more  in  the  Church  of  like  people, 
of  what  Professor  Roswell  H.  Johnson  said  concerning  us.  Among 
the  many  good  things  that  were  given  to  us  during  the  past  year  or 
two,  he  said  this  in  reference  to  our  Church : 

"The  eugenic  situation  in  Mormonism  is  better  than  in  other  cults,  because 
the  Church  has  made,  in  its  young  people's  organizations,  a  definite  and  system- 
atic effort  to  teach  better  mate  selection.  This  effort  is  superior  to  that  of  any 
other  cult  known  to  me. 

"The  Church  is  extraordinarily  solicitous  to  provide  buildings  largely  for 
the  joint  social  use  of  the  young  men's  and  young  women's  societies,  and  to 
promote  outdoor  activities,  to  foster  such  companionship.  In  fact,  in  the 
Mormon  Church  every  young  person  is  provided  a  wider  acquaintance  with 
eligibles  of  the  other  sex  than  is  to  be  found  in  any  other  cult  known  to  me." 

So  last  evening  in  meeting  those  splendid  young  missionaries  I 
thought  what  a  happy  mating  it  would  be  if  some  of  those  young  people, 
now  that  they  had  completed  their  missionary  work,  would  begin  mating. 
The  young  men  would  be  assured  of  very  noble  and  pure  women  and 
the  same  thing  on  the  part  of  the  young  women,  they  would  be  assured 
noble  men.  I  have  congratulated  some  of  those  young  people  who 
have  married  since  they  returned. 

We  in  the  Canadian  Mission  are  happily  very  close  to  the  real 
shrines  of  the  Church.  I  have  often  thought  what  other  sects  would 
do  if  they  had  a  spot  where  the  prophet  of  the  living  God  was  born 
and  one  where  a  sacred  record  was  delivered  to  him,  his  boyhood 
home  and  the  sacred  grove  where  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to 
him. 

These  young  people  in  assembling  at  Vermont  where  we  met  in 
conference  for  the  first  time  this  year  were  very  greatly  exhilerated 
by  the  beautiful  spirit  of  peace  and  of  love  which  pervaded  those  places 
which  are  recorded  as  sacred  precincts.  The  grounds  are  very  beautiful 
and  well  kept  by  Brother  Smith  and  his  family,  and  the  neighbors  from 
surrounding  places  came  there  and  listened  attentively  and  respectfully 
to  the  things  that  were  presented.  The  reactions  that  we  got  from  our 
missionaries  in  having  the  privilege  of  going  to  the  place  where  they  re- 
alize that  the  prophet  of  this  dispensation  was  born,  the  grove  where  he 
offered  the  prayer  that  brought  to  him  the  Father  and  the  Son,  the 
sacred  hill  where  a  volume  of  scripture  was  brought  forth,  and  the 
place  where  that  record  was  translated,  all  those  things  help  to  impress 
the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  upon  our  young  people. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


117 


I  must  not  talk  longer.  I  might  read  you  some  of  the  expressions 
of  these  young  people  who  had  the  privilege  recently,  of  visiting  some 
of  these  places.  We  held  conference  for  the  first  time  at  the  monument 
in  Vermont.  They  all  testify  of  the  strengthening  of  their  testimonies 
and  thank  the  Lord  that  they  have  had  the  privilege  of  standing  on 
what  they  regard  as  sacred  ground. 

I  know  there  are  other  shrines  of  other  denominations  within  the 
limits  of  our  territory,  but  I  know  of  none  of  them  that  claims  the 
distinction  of  having  a  place  where  a  prophet  of  the  living  God  was 
born  or  where  an  angel  of  God  appeared  or  where  God  the  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared.  May  we  treasure  these 
sacred  memories,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  asked  for  a  list  to  be  furnished  me  of  people  prominent  in  the 
Church  who  had  passed  away  since  our  last  Conference.  I  am  sur- 
prised to  find  that  the  name  of  P.  Rulon  Christensen,  president  of  the 
French  Mission,  was  omitted.  He  filled  a  very  splendid  mission  and 
we  are  grateful  for  his  fine  labors.  We  extend  our  sympathy  to  his 
family. 

I  am  also  surprised  that  I  myself  did  not  think  of  one  of  the 
general  officers  of  the  Church,  one  of  the  assistant  historians,  Brother 
Junius  F.  Wells,  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
by  direction  of  President  Brigham  Young,  of  traveling  all  over  the 
Church  and  establishing  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation. It  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  one  of  the  officers  of  the  first  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  of  the  young  men,  organized  by  Brother 
Wells.  Three  of  the  four  officers  are  living  today,  Counselor  B.  Morris 
Young,  Hyrum  H.  Goddard,  the  Secretary,  and  myself.  Henry  A. 
Woolley,  the  President,  has  passed  away. 

I  was  intimately  associated  as  a  partner  in  business  and  in  a 
church  capacity  with  Junius  F.  Wells,  nearly  all  of  my  life.  I  never 
heard  him  speak  an  unkind  word  of  anyone.  If  he  could  not  speak 
good  of  people  he  said  nothing.  He  did  us  honor  and  credit  wherever 
he  traveled  at  home  or  abroad.  He  was  a  worthy  son  of  a  worthy 
father.  His  heart  and  soul  were  wrapped  up  in  Mutual  Improvement 
work.  He  gave  to  that  work  the  very  best  that  was  in  him.  It  is  a 
source  of  regret  to  me  that  I  could  not  be  present  at  his  funeral.  May 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  attend  his  family. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  \the  First  Presidency 

Before  beginning  my  remarks  I  desire  to  express  the  gratitude 
I  feel  this  afternoon  that  my  life  has  been  prolonged  and  the  privilege 
granted  me  of  meeting  again  with  this  vast  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  these  people  of  American  birth,  people  of  English  birth,  people 
from  the  'Scandinavian  countries,  people  from  that  wonderful  nation, 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Germany,  people  from  France,  and  from  the  islands  of  the  sea.  It  is  a 
miracle  of  the  ages  that  these  representative  people  are  gathered  to- 
gether, baptized  into  one  faith,  bound  together  by  a  single  brotherhood 
where  the  prejudices  of  the  past  may  be  forgotten,  and  they  have 
become  one  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  looking  steadfastly  forward 
for  the  coming  and  establishment  of  the  kingdom  of  Christ  his  Son. 

I  have  opened  the  Bible  at  the  scripture  to  which  Brother  J.  Golden 
Kimball  called  our  attention  at  the  beginning  of  the  Conference.  The 
Lord  here  tells  us  that  when  a  man  speaks  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
if  the  thing  follow  not  nor  come  to  pass,  it  is  evident  that  the  man 
spoke  presumptuously  and  without  authority.  It  conversely  follows 
that  if  a  man  prophesies  and  the  words  which  he  uttters  come  true 
he  is  a  true  prophet. 

NEWSPAPER  HEADLINES 

A  few  weeks  ago,  unfolding  the  morning  paper,  as  it  is  my  custom 
to  do  before  going  to  my  daily  tasks,  I  read  the  following  headlines : 
"Jobless  Fire  Idaho  Forests ;  idle  men  start  blazes  in  order  to  procure 
work;  one  thousand  acres  of  timber  on  fire."  "Rebels  begin  rule  in 
Argentina,  after  battle  in  streets.  Government  quits  after  rebellion 
takes  many  lives.  Argentine  Army  and  Navy  mutiny."  "Santo  Do- 
mingo made  shambles  by  storm.  Deaths  near  two  thousand.  Damage 
set  at  twenty  millions  of  dollars." 

The  following  morning  the  paper  reported  four  thousand  bodies, 
victims  of  the  tornado  which  had  swept  the  city,  had  been  cremated. 
The  same  paper  contained  a  map  designating  the  parts  of  Brazil, 
Argentina  and  Peru  which  were  in  open  rebellion  to  their  governments, 
in  South  America,  and  told  us  that  nearer  home,  in  Illinois,  a  party 
of  American  men  and  women,  returning  from  an  evening  spent  at  a 
theater  were  held  up  and  robbed  of  one  hundred  and  thirty  thousand 
dollars. 

On  my  desk,  at  the  same  time  was  a  local  paper  which  gave  notice 
to  the  people  of  the  city  and  state  that  a  defaulting  employee  who  had 
been  arrested,  charged  with  having  embezzled  one  thousand  dollars 
from  his  employer,  was  released  by  the  police  department,  after  the 
gamblers  of  the  city,  to  whom  he  had  lost  the  embezzled  money,  had 
been  assessed  and  returned  the  money  which  the  defaulter  had  lost  to 
them,  with  the  threat  that  if  they  refused  their  gambling  dens  would 
be  closed.  It  logically  follows  that  if  they  complied  with  the  demand 
made  they  would  receive  protection  and  be  permitted  to  continue  their 
nefarious  occupation. 

signs  of  Christ's  coming 

Contemplating  these  occurrences  and  those  of  the  past  six  months, 
since  the  last  General  Conference  of  the  Church  was  held,  my  mind 
reverted  to  the  words  of  Christ  our  Lord  uttered  just  prior  to  his  be- 
trayal, trial  and  crucifixion.  As  Jesus  came  out  from  the  temple  at 
Jerusalem  his  disciples  called  his  attention  to  the  manner  of  construe- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W,.  IVINS 


119 


tion  of  the  buildings  and  the  great  stones  which  the  workmen  had  placed 
in  the  walls.    The  Redeemer  answered  them  saying: 

"Seest  thou  these  great  "buildings?  There  shall  not  be  left  one  stone  upon 
another,  that  shall  not  be  thrown  down." 

Passing  on  to  the  Mount  of  Olives  his  disciples  spoke  to  him 
privately  saying: 

"Tell  us  when  these  things  shall  be?  And  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy 
coming,  and  of  the  end  of  the  World? 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  them,  Take  heed  that  no  man  deceive  you. 
.  "For  many  shall  come  in  my  name,  saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  shall  deceive 
many." 

And  then  he  went  on  to  tell  them  that  it  would  be  at  a  time  when 
they  would  hear  of  wars  and  rumors  of  wars,  that  nation  would  rise 
against  nation,  and  kingdom  against  kingdom ;  that  there  would  be 
famine  and  pestilences  and  earthquakes  in  divers  places. 

He  declared  that  Jerusalem  would  be  trodden  down  by  the  Gentiles 
and  her  people  scattered,  but  with  the  assurance  that  at  a  period  desig- 
nated as  the  latter  days,  when  the  times  of  the  Gentile  nations  would 
be  fulfilled,  they  would  be  gathered  again  and  restored  to  the  heritage 
promised  by  the  Lord  to  their  father  Abraham. 

He  declared  that  prior  to  his  coming  to  assume  dominion  over  the 
earth  upon  which  we  dwell  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  which  he  taught 
and  exemplified  in  his  life,  would  be  restored  to  earth  and  carried  to  all 
nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  people;  that  those  whom  he  would  call 
would  go  into  all  the  world,  calling  the  people  back  to  faith  in  a  living- 
God,  and  service  to  him  who  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  the 
sea  and  the  fountains  of  water,  and  warning  them  that  the  hour  had 
come  when  the  righteous  judgments  of  an  offended  God,  whom  they  had 
ceased  to  serve,  whom  they  defy,  and  whose  holy  name  they  blaspheme, 
had  come.  ; 

He  declared  that  after  testimony  of  the  restoration  had  been  borne 
by  the  faithful  witnesses  whom  he  would  choose,  he  would  speak  to 
the  people  of  the  world  by  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice  of 
lightnings,  and  of  tempests  and  the  waves  of  the  sea  heaving  themselves 
beyond  their  bounds,  and  earthquakes  which  would  cause  men  to  fall 
to  the  ground  and  not  be  able  to  stand.  It  was  to  be  a  time  of  com- 
motion which  would  bring  perplexity  and  distress  to  the  nations,  such 
as  the  world  had  never  known.  "And  then  shall  they  see  the  Son  of 
Man  coming  in  power  and  great  glory." 

Nearly  twenty  centuries  have  passed  since  the  declarations  to  which 
I  have  referred  were  made.  It  cannot  be  claimed  by  critics,  as  is  so 
often  the  case,  that  there  is  an  error  in  dates,  and  that  the  declarations 
were  made  after  the  events  referred  to  had  occurred. 

FULFILMENT  FOLLOWS 

Now,  what  of  the  fulfilment  ? 

The  spot  upon  which  the  temple  of  Solomon  was  to  be  erected 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  designated  by  the  Prophet  Gad.  It  was  built  at  Jerusalem,  upon 
Mount  Moriah,  said  to  be  the  place  where  Abraham  built  the  altar 
upon  which  Isaac  was  to  be  offered  a  sacrifice  to  the  Lord.  At  least 
150,000  men  were  employed  in  the  construction  of  the  temple.  It  was 
without  doubt  the  most  expensive,  elaborate  and  richly  adorned  edifice 
erected  up  to  the  time  of  its  construction,  about  a  thousand  years  before 
the  birth  of  Christ.  Gold  was  used  lavishly  in  its  adornment,  at  least 
seven  million  dollars'  worth  as  we  count  values. 

The  temple  was  desecrated  and  a  large  portion  of  its  priceless 
adornment  carried  away  by  the  armies  of  Egypt  and  the  kings  of  Israel, 
after  the  Ten  Tribes  had  revolted.  It  was  finally  destroyed  by  Ne- 
buchadnezzar, the  great  king,  at  the  time  the  Jews  were  carried  into 
captivity  to  Babylon,  about  600  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  The 
Bible  tells  us  that  he  carried  away  all  the  treasures  of  the  house  of 
the  Lord  and  cut  in  pieces  all  the  vessels  of  gold  which  Solomon  the 
king  had  made  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord. 

It  was  about  eighty-seven  years  later,  after  the  fall  of  the  Baby- 
lonian kingdom  to  the  Medo-Persian  armies,  that  Cyrus,  the  Persian 
king,  issued  a  proclamation  granting  permission  to  those  of  the  Jews 
who  desired  to  do  so  to  return  to  Jerusalem  and  rebuild  the  temple 
which  had  been  destroyed  by  Nebuchadnezzar. 

A  large  number  of  Jewish  families  availed  themselves  of  this  op- 
portunity and  under  the  leadership  of  Zerubbabel  and  others  returned  to 
Jerusalem,  rebuilt  the  temple  and  restored  the  ritual  which  had  been 
established  there  by  King  Solomon. 

After  the  conquest  of  the  Medo-Persian  kingdom  by  Alexander  of 
Macedon,  known  as  Alexander  the  Great,  the  Greek  general  Artiochus 
Epiphanes,  took  the  city  of  Jerusalem  by  storm,  put  many  of  the 
inhabitants  to  death,  profaned  the  temple,  and  dedicated  it  to  the  idol- 
atrous worship  of  Jupiter  Olympus. 

Forty  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  Herod  the  Great  became 
king  of  Judea.  He  was  an  Idumean  or  Edamite  by  birth,  a  descendant 
of  Abraham  through  Isaac,  being  descended  from  Esau,  his  eldest  son, 
and  was  not  in  sympathy  with  the  Jewish  people,  or  their  religion, 
but  through  the  influence  of  Rome  had  become  the  titular  king  of 
Judea.  It  was  this  man  who  ordered  the  slaughter  of  the  children,  after 
the  birth  of  Christ,  in  order  to  remove  one  whom  he  feared  might  seek 
to  succeed  to  the  throne  which  he  occupied. 

He  undertook  the  restoration  of  the  temple  on  a  far  more  elaborate 
plan  than  any  builder  who  had  preceded  him  in  so  far  as  size  and  sub- 
stantial construction  were  concerned,  but  not  with  the  priceless  em- 
bellishment which  Solomon  had  lavished  upon  it.  He  declared  that  he 
would  build  it  so  strong  that  it  would  never  again  be  destroyed.  This 
construction  was  in  progress  at  the  birth  of  Christ,  and  was  finished 
during  his  ministry. 

During  the  war  of  the  Maccabees,  when  the  Maccabaeus  brothers, 
Jonathan,  Judas  and  Simon  sought  to  throw  off  the  yoke  which  the 
government  established  by  Alexander  the  Great  had  fastened  upon 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


121 


them,  ambassadors  were  sent  to  Rome  with  a  petition  to  the  senate 
asking  for  support  in  their  wars  with  the  Greeks. 

The  petition  was  regarded  with  favor,  and  a  treaty  entered  into  by 
which  Rome  pledged  herself  to  come  to  the  aid  of  the  Jews,  and  the 
latter  agreed  to  assist  Rome  against  her  enemies  in  case  of  need.  Rome 
notified  Greece  that  if  her  oppression  of  the  Jews  did  not  cease  at  once 
she  would  make  war  upon  her  both  by  land  and  by  sea.  The  text  of  this 
treaty,  which  is  available,  was  written  upon  plates  of  brass,  and  sent 
to  Jerusalem.  One  of  the  few  instances  where  a  message  was  written 
upon  metal  plates  in  ancient  times.  As  a  result  of  this  treaty  Palestine 
became  a  Roman  province,  and  remained  so  until  after  the  birth  and 
crucifixion  of  our  Lord. 

This  was  the  condition  at  Jerusalem  at  the  time  Jesus  made  the 
statements  regarding  the  destruction  of  the  temple  to  which  I  have 
referred. 

Jewish  and  Roman  thought  were  incompatible,  and  in  A.  D.  66, 
thirty  years  after  the  crucifixion,  a  general  revolt  against  Rome  oc- 
curred, and  the  Jews  took  possession  of  Jerusalem. 

Vespasian  and  his  son  Titus  were  sent  with  a  Roman  army  to  bring 
them  back  into  submission,  and  after  a  siege  which  continued  about 
four  years,  one  of  the  most  frightful  and  atrocious  sieges  of  history, 
characterized  by  unspeakable  horrors,  the  city  was  taken  by  Titus,  who 
burned  the  temple,  leveled  the  city  to  the  ground  and  scattered  the 
Jewish  people  to  the  four  corners  of  the  earth.  Historians  tell  us 
that  the  very  foundation  stones  were  dug  up  by  the  Romans  in  the 
hope  that  treasure  might  be  found  buried  there. 

THREE  CENTURIES  LATER 

It  is  said  that  the  Roman  emperor,  Julian,  three  centuries  later,  in 
his  hatred  of  Christianity,  which  had  become  the  dominant  religion  of 
his  country,  seeking  to  restore  the  pagan  worship,  sought  to  rebuild  the 
temple  at  Jerusalem,  but  met  with  so  many  obstacles,  some  of  which 
appeared  to  be  supernatural,  abandoned  the  undertaking  and  returned 
to  Rome  with  the  statement:  "The  Nazarene  has  triumphed." 

I  have  gone  briefly  over  the  history  of  the  past  in  order  to  bring 
before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  undeniable  evidence  that  the 
words  uttered  by  Christ  our  Lord,  in  which  he  declared  the  destruction 
of  the  temple  at  Jerusalem  and  the  scattering  of  the  Jews  have  been 
literally  fulfilled. 

SIGNIFICANCE  OF  SCRIPTURE 

You  may  ask,  what  relationship  to  us  has  this  scripture  to  which 
I  have  called  attention?  We  who  are  assembled  here,  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  gathered  in  conference 
nearly  two  thousand  years  after  the  events  referred  to  occurred. 

It  has  very  great  significance,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  is 
for  that  reason  that  I  have  called  your  attention  to  it.  It  tells  us  how 
unchangeable  and  certain  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  Lord 
as  he  has  uttered  them  through  his  servants  the  prophets. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  fulfilment  of  prophecy  came  in  the  past  and  generally  comes 
through  such  natural  means  that  we  hardly  observe  it  or  know  that  it 
is  coming.  And  so  I  feel  that  there  are  many  others  of  the  declara- 
tions of  the  prophets  to  which  I  might  turn,  the  fulfilment  of  which 
is  before  our  very  eyes,  and  almost  without  our  knowledge  or  attention. 

LIGHT  AND  KNOWLEDGE 

Seventy  years  have  passed  away  since  I  became  a  member  of  the 
Church  by  baptism.  During  that  period  of  time  there  has  radiated 
from  the  presence  of  God  our  Father  a  dispensation  of  light,  increasing 
knowledge  and  intelligence,  which  is  the  glory  of  God,  to  a  degree 
never  before  known,  nor  even  dreamed  of  by  our  fathers. 

WHth  these  increased  conveniences  and  blessings  which  have  come 
to  us,  there  should  have  been  manifested  in  our  lives  both  by  example 
and  precept,  greater  faith  in  and  service  to  our  Father  who  is  in 
heaven,  who  is  the  author  of  all  these  blessings. 

I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  with  you  I  ask  the 
Christian  world  at  large,  has  this  been  the  case?  Are  we  a  better 
people  in  our  morals  ?  Do  we  observe  with  greater  reverence  the  Sabbath 
day  to  keep  it  holy?  Do  we  revere  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  hold  it 
more  sacred  because  of  his  increased  blessings?  Have  we  become  less 
selfish  and  grasping  after  wealth?  Do  we  think  more  of  the  poor  and 
unfortunate,  or  do  we  in  our  hurried  struggle  of  life  forget  them  and 
leave  them  to  suffer  while  we  live  surrounded  with  abundance?  Do 
we  love  and  serve  our  country  more,  and  more  devotedly  honor  its  laws  ? 

I  leave  you  to  answer  these  questions. 

VISIT  TO  ST.  GEORGE 

A  short  time  ago,  in  company  with  President  Grant,  I  visited  my 
old  home  at  St.  George.  Early  in  the  morning  before  it  was  light,  I 
rose  and  walked  out  to  the  little  cemetery  and  stood  by  the  graves  of 
my  parents.  As  the  light  increased  I  walked  down  the  narrow  streets 
and  read  the  inscriptions  on  the  tombstones.  I  remembered  every  one 
of  the  men  and  women  whose  names  were  inscribed  upon  them.  T 
thought  of  them  all  and  could  remember  something  in  their  lives — 
every  one  from  the  humblest  to  the  most  honored — which  had  led  me 
to  love  and  honor  them. 

I  knew  these  men  as  I  have  known  no  others.  I  knew  the  sacrifices 
which  they  had  made,  that  they  had  given  all  they  had  to  give-  for  an 
ideal.  I  had  seen  them  face  danger  with  the  courage  of  Spartans, 
and  perform  acts  of  mercy  with  the  gentleness  of  women,  and  when  their 
mortal  race  was  run  and  they  were  face  to  face  with  death,  meet  it 
with  the  sublime  resignation  of  martyrs. 

They  had  been  my  teachers,  the  guardians  of  my  youth.  They 
taught  me  faith  in  a  living  God,  that  he  is  the  same  good  Heavenly 
Father  that  he  ever  was,  and  will  watch  over  and  bless  all  those  who 
put  their  trust  in  him.  They  taught  me  that  birth  into  this  life  was  not 
the  beginning  of  my  existence  nor  death  the  end  of  it.  They  taught 
me  to  defraud  no  man,  though  the  thing  may  be  small,    They  taught 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W[  IVINS  123 


me  to  love  virtue  and  refrain  from  any  habit  which,  when  my  record 
is  read  from  the  house  top,  as  it  will  be,  would  bring  the  blush  of 
shame  to  my  cheek.  They  taught  me  to  love  my  country  and  honor 
and  obey  its  laws ;  that  the  government  under  which  it  is  my  privilege 
to  live  is  a  God-given  heritage,  and  that  it  was  my  duty  to  defend  it 
against  all  enemies,  be  they  foreign  or  domestic,  if  necessary  at  the 
cost  of  life  itself. 

A  SILENT  PRAYER 

As  I  stood  there  in  the  gray  dawn,  in  that  silent  city  of  the  dead, 
I  breathed  a  silent  prayer  of  thanksgiving  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
that  my  lot  had  been  cast  with  these  humble,  God-fearing  men  and 
women,  and  prayed  that  as  I  had  been  with  them  and  served  them  in 
mortal  life,  so  might  I  be  with  them  for  service  in  the  life  to  come. 
And  I  knew  that  if  I  proved  my  devotion  to  the  truth  as  they  proved 
theirs  that  my  prayer  would  be  answered. 

I  desire  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  had  I  been 
brought  into  any  other  cemetery  within  the  boundaries  of  this  state 
and  walked  there  and  communed  with  the  people  who  have  given  their 
lives  for  this  same  ideal  I  would  have  found  exactly  the  same  condition. 

EARLY  DAY  FIDELITY 

I  could  not  refrain,  and  that  was  what  led  me  to  quote  from 
these  daily  papers  as  I  did  in  the  beginning  of  my  remarks,  from  draw- 
ing the  contrast  between  the  conditions  which  existed  at  the  time  when 
the  example  and  influence  of  these  men  dominated  the  politics  of  this 
State  and  those  which  exist  today,  if  we  are  to  believe  the  reports  which 
come  to  us  through  the  daily  press  of  the  country. 

I  do  not  remember  an  instance  where  an  innocent  man  was  con- 
victed of  wrongdoing,  or  where  a  known  criminal  escaped  punishment. 
There  were  no  men  in  the  State  prison  who  had  violated  the  trust  re- 
posed in  them  by  their  fellow  citizens  who  had  elected  them  to  office, 
nor  men  out  of  prison  who,  if  justice  were  administered,  would  be  inside. 
Men  were  taught  that  public  office  was  a  public  trust  and  must  be  ad- 
ministered with  fidelity  and  honor,  and  they  did  it.  I  wonder  what  their 
reaction  would  be  if  they  were  here  today  to  witness  the  changed 
conditions  which  exist  in  this  modern  world  of  ours,  a  world  so  different 
from  that  in  which  they  lived  that  it  can  scarcely  be  recognized  as 
belonging  to  the  same  planet  upon  which  they  lived. 

GOOD  MEN  NEEDED  IN  OFFICE 

I  have  no  desire  to  go  back  to  that  day,  to  exchange  automobiles 
for  ox  teams,  which  I  have  driven,  nor  to  exchange  our  wonderful 
harvesting  machinery  for  the  cradle  with  which  I  have  harvested  grain, 
and  the  flail  with  which  I  threshed  it.  But  I  do  appeal  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  return  to  the  old  paths  of  virtue,  honor  and 
integrity  which  your  fathers  trod.  No  matter  what  the  development 
of  science  or  of  invention  may  bring  to  us  these  virtues  remain  the 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


same.  They  are  eternal  truths  and  the  advancement  of  our  so-called 
civilization  cannot  change  them. 

No  one  will  deny  that  we  are  living  in  perilous  times.  No  one 
who  is  familiar  with  the  Scripture  will  deny  that  we  are  living  at.  the 
time  when  our  Lord  says  his  glorious  appearance  is  near. 

Only  the  day  before  yesterday  the  press  advised  us  that  one 
million  dollars  was  being  subscribed  by  the  lawless  element  in  Chicago 
for  the  purpose  of  removing  from  office  the  Commissioner  of  Police 
because  of  his  activities  in  the  suppression  of  crime. 

If  it  is  true  that  organized  crime  has  fastened  its  tentacles  upon 
our  own  city  and  state,  as  reported  in  the  quotations  which  I  made  in 
the  beginning  of  my  remarks,  is  it  not  time  that  we  arouse  from  the 
lethargy  of  indifferent  citizenship  and  demand  reform  and  see  to  it 
that  good  men  and  wise  men  are  selected  to  control  our  public  affairs? 

There  are  such  men,  equal  to  any  of  the  past.  They  are  to  be  found 
in  all  political  parties.  They  are  not  confined  to  any  religious  or- 
ganization, but  are  all  around  us  in  every  vocation  of  life.  Such  men 
now  represent  us  in  political  life,  in  national,  state  and  city  affairs. 
As  I  know  many  of  these  men  I  cannot  think  of  others  for  whom 
I  would  desire  to  exchange  them.  I  regret  that  I  cannot  feel  so  toward 
all. 

I  make  no  plea  for  any  candidate,  for  any  political  party,  or  any 
church.  But  I  do  plead  with  all  the  people,  and  particularly  the  church, 
and  I  refer  to  all  Christian  people,  to  unitedly  resolve  that  the  sacred 
heritage  bequeathed  to  us  by  our  fathers  be  sacredly  preserved,  that 
this  country  of  ours  may  continue  to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  reaching 
out  its  hands  to  all  people,  guaranteeing  to  all  men  liberty  under  the 
law,  but  license  to  do  wrong  to  none.  I  regard  it  as  my  duty  and  the 
duty  of  every  other  professed  Christian  to  assume  this  attitude  if  our 
country  is  to  be  rescued  from  anarchy,  violence  and  chaos. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  studied  the  history  of  the  past. 
I  know  the  story  of  the  rise  and  fall  of  Rome,  of  Babylon,  of  Egypt,  and 
of  other  great  nations,  and  the  one  outstanding  thing  that  brought  that 
about  was  the  corruption  of  the  officials  who  were  placed  in  charge 
of  affairs  of  state.  I  do  not  wish  to  continue  to  quote  scripture  in  order 
to  demonstrate  that  we  are  living  in  a  time  when  the  Lord  has  said  that 
these  very  things  shall  exist.  But  he  has  warned  us  against  them. 
He  has  declared  the  destiny  of  this  nation  and  of  all  other  nations. 
I  wish  simply  to  say  that  if  they  are  to  persist,  if  they  continue,  it  will 
be  when  the  people  return  to  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  and  in  justice 
and  righteousness  serve  him,  both  in  civil  and  ecclesiastical  affairs. 
And  if  this  shall  fail  these  very  elements  that  have  resulted  in  the  de- 
struction of  the  civilizations  of  the  past,  if  they  shall  be  permitted  by 
us  to  persist,  will  eventually  bring  to  us  perplexity,  confusion  and  final 
chaos. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  he  help  us  all  to 
magnify  our  callings,  to  stand  righteously  for  that  which  is  right  and 
immovably  opposed  to  that  which  is  wrong,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask 
it  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


125 


The  Choir  rendered  the  anthem,  "That  Sweet  Story  of  Old," 
solo  part  by  Cannon  Lund. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  as  usual — and  this  you  have  heard  before — more  speakers 
than  we  have  time.  We  would  like  to  hear  from  all  mission  presidents. 
We  have  the  authorities  to  present,  and  we  would  like  to  hear  from 
our  sisters.  But  there  is  only  one  way  we  can  do  it,  and  that  is  to 
pull  the  coat  tails  of  those  who  do  not  look  at  the  clock,  as  we  will 
have  to  limit  each  of  them  to  five  minutes. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  State's  Mission 

I  have  been  greatly  impressed  during  the  past  summer  in  reading 
the  History  of  the  Church  which  has  recently  been  compiled  by  Presi- 
dent Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  in  finding  therein  the  expressions  of  the 
leaders  of  our  Church  who  have  long  since  passed  away. 

I  commend  to  the  men  and  women  of  this  Church,  especially 
the  youth,  the  reading  of  that  history.  I  hope  that  it  may  be  found 
in  all  the  homes  of  the  people. 

Those  men  bear  witness,  and  the  history  of  them  gives  evidence, 
that  they  were  in  reality  servants  of  the  living  God.  No  one  could 
accomplish  what  Brigham  Young  did,  and  those  mighty  pioneers  who 
were  with  him  in  the  beginning  of  this  great  work  in  this  western 
country,  unless  God  had  been  with.  I  think  we  ought  to  become 
more  familiar  with  the  work  of  our  people,  that  we  may  realize  what  it 
cost  to  establish  the  Church  of  God  in  this  land.  The  Lord  has  pro- 
vided a  background  of  history  that  will  refute  any  charge  that  could 
be  brought  against  this  people.  The  historical  record  is  wonderful 
and  the  doctrinal  record  is  just  as  certain.  The  Lord  selected  mighty 
men,  and  according  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  they  were  chosen 
before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid,  to  establish  his  work  in 
the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  things  do  not  happen  by  chance;  but  that  the  Lord  provides  for 
all  the  things  that  have  come  to  pass.  Then  he  has  placed  the  responsi- 
bility on  his  people  to  do  their  best  to  carry  out  his  purposes.  He  gave  a 
revelation  in  which  the  free  agency  of  man  is  referred  to  as  follows : 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward." 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  men  who 
have  stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church  in  this  land  from  the  days„of 
Brigham  Young  until  now  have  been  men  of  God  and  have  exercised 
the  privilege  that  God  gave  them,  and  that  the  Church  has  been  sta- 
bilized and  led  just  as  though  our  Eternal  Father  had  been  here.  For 


126 


GENERAL  'CONFERENCE 


I  am  convinced  that  Jesus  Christ,  who  gave  his  life  for  the  children 
of  men,  has  never  at  any  time  since  the  organization  of  this  Church 
been  very  far  from  it.  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the  missionaries 
in  the  Eastern  States  are  in  exceptional  good  health,  and  are  perform- 
ing a  splendid  work. 

There  is  probably  nothing  that  indicates  this  more,  in  view  of  the 
distressing  shortage  of  employment,  than  the  fact  that  the  number  of 
tithe-payers  has  materially  increased,  with  about  twenty-four  per  cent 
increase  in  the  amount  of  tithing  paid.  In  confirmation  of  what  has 
been  already  said,  none,  so  far  as  I  know,  of  those  who  pay  tithing, 
is  unemployed,  with  one  exception,  and  he  lost  his  temper  and  quit 
his  job. 

In  confirmation  of  what  President  Grant  has  said,  I  can  testify  to 
the  fact  that  there  is  a  marked  change  taking  place  in  the  sentiment 
of  the  people  of  the  country  toward  our  people.  The  Church  is  really, 
as  he  said,  coming  into  its  own,  and  I  can  conceive  of  nothing,  unless 
it  be  the  providences  of  God,  that  has  made  the  marvelous  change 
that  has  taken  place.  Naturally,  no  doubt,  for  I  believe  that  is  the 
way  the  Lord  works.  I  am  sure  that  the  organ  recitals  from  this  tab- 
ernacle have  performed  a  marvelous  work  in  softening  the  minds  of 
the  people  and  helping  to  bring  them  to  a  realization  of  the  fact  that 
such  music  does  not  come  from  a  low,  uncultured  and  base  people,  but 
rather  those  with  high,  noble  and  pure  conceptions.  The  work  too  on  this 
temple  block,  at  the  Bureau  of  Information,  I  believe  is  being  very 
helpful  in  changing  the  attitude  of  the  many  travelers  and  tourists  who 
come  to  Utah.  They  meet  our  people  and  become  acquainted  with 
them  and  their  accomplishments.  They  constitute  a  great  auxiliary 
force  in  refuting  the  scandalous  stories  that  have  been  so  frequently 
circulated  about  us.  These  people  frequently  manifest  their  friendli- 
ness toward  our  missionaries,  as  they  very  frequently  report  in  our 
conferences. 

One  of  the  most  notable  developments  in  the  Mission  is  the  changed 
attitude  which  has  taken  place  toward  us,  particularly  since  the  Cen- 
tennial celebration.  We  have  comparatively  little  trouble  in  getting 
notices  into  the  papers.  They  treat  us  well.  Many  of  them  will 
publish  much  that  we  want  them  to  do.  We  gathered  something  over 
a  thousand  clippings  and  some  of  them  splendid,  lengthy  articles,  deal- 
ing fairly  with  our  people,  concerning  the  Centennial  celebration. 

I  am  sure  the  periodicals  and  daily  newspapers  are  ready  to  publish, 
if  prepared  in  the  right  way,  the  most  important  and  interesting  facts 
relating  to  our  organization,  the  culture  "Mormonism"  is  developing, 
our  accomplishments  in  matters  of  health,  superior  methods  of  training, 


) 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


127 


educating  and  developing  the  young;  our  unparalleled  missionary  sys- 
tem and  method  of  developing  preachers  which  enables  the  Church 
to  carry  on  without  a  paid  clergy,  and  which  insures  the  highest  per- 
centage of  all  church-going  attendance  without  a  paid  preacher;  a 
charity  system,  which  is  equally  unique,  not  only  in  its  completeness, 
but  which  is  carried  on  so  as  to  insure  one  hundred  per  cent  of  the 
money  contributed  gping  to  the  charity  for  which  it  was  contributed, 
without  anything  being  deducted  for  collection  or  distribution.  I  know 
of  no  other  organization  in  which  that  is  accomplished. 

These  are  of  the  utm,ost  interest  to  all  thinking  people  interested 
in  the  development  and  progress  of  human  welfare,  and  when  once 
understood  arouse  interest  in  learning  what  is  behind  it  all ;  in  other 
words,  the  material  benefits  or  "fruits  of  Mormonism"  once  known 
arouse  a  desire  to  know  why  and  from  whence  they  come,  and  induce 
a  study  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

During  the  last  five  months  we  have  developed  preaching  the 
Gospel,  as  predicted  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from  the  house  tops, 
or  more  literally  over  the  radio  free  of  charge  in  a  number  of  large 
and  prominent  cities  in  the  Mission.  This  is  being  done  by  young  in- 
experienced missionaries.  They  write  their  own  addresses  and  deliver 
them,  first  submitting  'them  to  us  for  revision.  But  in  only  a  few 
cases  has  there  been  any  substantial  revision.  Young  men  coming  to 
the  Mission  at  nineteen  and  twenty  years  of  age.  One,  and  I  think 
the  one  who  has  led  most  successfully  in  obtaining  this  privilege,  came 
to  the  Mission  only  twenty  years  of  age.  At  first  we  were  given  only 
ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  which  to  speak,  the  balance  of  the  half  hour 
to  be  devoted  to  music.  Oh,  if  we  could  have  more  missionaries  who, 
could  sing!  If  you  will  furnish  us  with  singers  we  will  secure  the 
radio  for  preaching  the  Gospel  free.  It  was  not  long  before  the  time 
was  extended  to  a  full  hour  in  some  cases,  a  half  hour  for  preaching 
and  a  half  hour  for  singing  and  music.  And  in  all  cases  the  time  to 
preach  has  been  extended. 

I  would  like  to  call  attention  to  one  other  very  interesting  develop- 
ment. We  are  now  exhibiting  Mormonism  in  the  fairs  and  large 
exhibitions,  in  which  we  lay  special  stress  upon  the. Word  of  Wisdom 
and  its  benefits  upon  our  educational  system,  our  training  of  the  young ; 
and  our  charity  system.  We  are  calling  attention  notably  to  the  fact 
that  not  a  dollar  is  expended  in  collecting  and  distributing"  funds  for 
charitable  purposes. 

This  affords  unexampled  opportunities  for  Gospel  conversations 
and  the  distribution  of  tracts  by  the  tens  of  thousands.  More  than 
five  thousand  were  distributed  by  half  a  dozen  missionaries  in  one 
day  from  our  booth  in  the  great  Eastern  States  Exposition  recently 
held  at  Springfield,  Massachusetts. 

The  best  feature  of  it  all  is  the  presentation  of  a  few  of  our  finest 
missionaries,  whose  very  presence  attracts  attention  and  radiates  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 

My  time  is  up.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate  the  great  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  F<ast  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  visiting  with  you  upon  this  occasion.  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  attending  every  session  of  the  Conference  and  I  have  enjoyed  them 
to  the  fullest  extent. 

I  heartily  endorse  what  was  said  by  President  Grant  and  President 
Moyle,  also  by  President  McMurrin,  in  regard  to  two  or  three  items. 
President  McMurrin  referred  to  the  shortage  of  missionaries.  I  was 
asked  today  by  one  brother  if  volunteers  would  be  accepted.  I  want 
to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  have  volunteers  they  should  be 
recommended  and  called  in  the  regular  way.  We  can  use  one  hundred 
of  them  in  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 

President  Grant  referred  to  the  wonderful  work  that  is  being 
done  by  the  Choir.  I  can  bear  testimony  to  that  because  in  passing 
along  the  streets  of  Louisville  and  other  cities  we  find  every  Monday 
afternoon  that  those  programs  are  being  broadcast  so  that  even  the 
people  in  the  streets  are  able  to  hear  them ;  and  they  are  doing  a  wonder- 
ful amount  of  good  because  they  make  many  friends  for  us  and  give 
us  an  opportunity  to  talk  upon  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

Just  a  few  days  ago  we  held  a  series  of  meetings  in  one  of  the 
cities  close  to  Louisville.  The  next  morning  after  holding  these  meet- 
ings, as  my  wife  and  I  were  leaving  the  city,  we  met  one  of  our  local 
brethren  who  remarked  that  he  had  just  been  talking  to  one  of  his 
neighbors  who  belongs  to  another  denomination.  In  the  course  of  this 
conversation  he  said: 

"In  our  services  last  night  our  minister  referred  to  a  certain  class  of  people 
in  this  manner :  'There  is  a  little  community  of  saints  here  that  meet  together 
as  a  family,  and  they  are  the  best  people  in  all  the  world,  and  they  have  a 
prophet  to  lead  them'." 

I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  a  community 
in  Bath  County  that  meet  together  as  a  family.  They  are  among  the 
best  people  in  all  the  world,  and  they  have  a  prophet  to  lead  them. 
And  in  practically  every  county  in  this  nation  there  are  similar  com- 
munities, and  they  are  led  by  a  prophet  of  God,  even  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church  today.  I  know  of 
his  integrity.  I  have  traveled  with  him,  I  have  eaten  with  him,  and 
I  have  slept  with  him.  I  know  that  his  heart  and  his  soul  are  wrapped 
up  in  this  work,  and  he  is  God's  mouthpiece  upon  the  earth. 

May  our  Father's  choicest  blessings  ever  abide  with  each  and  every 
one  of  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  No^th  Central  States  Mission 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters :  I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  mis- 
sionaries and  saints  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission,  all  of  whom 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


129 


are  well  and  enjoying  their  work.  That  the  drouth,  unemployment 
and  the  low  price  of  wheat  have  produced  a  lean  year  in  the  semi-arid 
states  of  Montana,  the  Dakotas,  and  the  wheat  producing  Canadian 
provinces  of  Saskatchewan  and  Manitoba,  you  need  not  be  told.  Min- 
nesota has  fared  better.  But  our  people  are  not  complaining.  They 
are  holding  their  own.  So  far  we  have  not  fallen  off  in  tithing  paid 
nor  in  number  of  converts  baptized.  We  hope  our  people  will  continue 
their  good  work  until  times  shall  mend,  and  everything  be  all  right  again. 

We  are  glad  to  testify  of  the  changed  conditions  of  friendliness 
toward  our  people  already  spoken  of  in  this  Conference.  An  illustra- 
tion of  this  friendly  interest,  arising  largely,  no  doubt,  from  attention 
given  tourists  on  this  block,  from  radio  sermons  of  leading  brethren, 
and  from  the  broadcast  of  Tabernacle  Organ  and  Choir  recitals,  may 
interest  you.  Within  the  recent  past  two  of  our  capable  and  charm- 
ing lady  missionaries  have  been  entertained  at  the  home  of  the  Gov- 
ernor of  one  of  our  States,  where  they  were  graciously  and  cordially 
received  by  "the  Governor's  wife,  for  whom  they  sang  some  of  the 
songs  of  Zion,  and  at  whose  invitation  they  joined  in  prayer  before 
leaving  her  home.  This  good  woman  was  full  of  praise  for  leading 
brethren  and  sisters  with  whom  she  and  her  husband's  party  had  been 
associated  here.  The  more  people  know  about  you,  the  better  they 
receive  your  missionaries  abroad.  To  be  a  Mormon  missionary  from 
Utah  is  no  longer  a  reproach,  but  a  distinction. 

It  must  not  be  inferred,  however,  that  this  friendliness  implies  a 
very  general  acceptance  of  the  Gospel  as  we  teach  it.  Not  so.  Men 
applaud  the  perfection  of  our  Church  organization,  the  fact  that  "it 
works,"  and  that  it  puts  tens  of  thousands  of  its  people  to  work.  The 
financial  system  of  the  Church,  tithing  and  fast  offerings,  are  the  ad- 
miration of  some  and  the  envy  of  others.  Our  missionary  system, 
and  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  etc.,  receive  commendation  of  intelligent 
people  everywhere.  But  there  they  stop.  That  God  the  Eternal  Father 
and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  are  real  personages,  capable  of  appearing  to 
men  as  we  affirm  they  did  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Sacred  Grove  in 
western  New  York  in  1820,  few  men  of  the  world  believe.  If  Latter- 
day  Saints  were  willing  to  abandon  Joseph  Smith  and  his  claims  to 
seership,  throw  overboard  the  first  great  vision  with  all  that  it  implies 
as  to  the  actuality,  and  the' reality  of  the  personality  of  God,  the  rest 
of  Mormonism  could  •  be  popularized  over  night.  Stand  by  these 
declarations  of  divine  origin  for  our  religion,  and  the  doctrine  of  Deity 
inherent  therein,  and  you  stand  alone,  your  only  consolation,  if  such  it 
be,  that  you  stand  alone  with  God. 

Your  missionaries  in  the  field  believe  in  and  love  to  testify  of  "God 
the  Eternal  Father,  and  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;"  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God.  They  also  believe  in  good  men  everywhere,  and  are  grateful 
for  their  growing  friendship.  Of  you,  here  at  home,  they  like  to  think 
as  "The  salt  of  the  earth."  "By  their  fruits  shall  ye  know  them"  is  a 
text  they  love.  To  you  they  look  to  vindicate  what  they  proudly  boast 
as  "The  fruits  of  Mormonism." 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Oh  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,"  your  missionary  would 
say  to  you  if  he  could,  "See  that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your  heart, 
might,  imind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before  God 
at  the  last  day." 

God  bless  the  youth  of  Israel  and  the  missionaries  of  his  Church 
everywhere  in  the  world,  we  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  pray  in  my  heart  that  we  may  be  able  to  take  to  our  homes 
in  the  wards  and  stakes  and  in  the  mission  fields  the  spirit  and  instruc- 
tion of  this  great  Conference. 

Sister  Pond  and  I  are  happy  in  the  work  in  the  Northern  States 
Mission.  The  auxiliary  organizations  and  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  I 
believe,  are  being  properly  supervised  and  more  than  ordinary  progress 
is  being  made.  As  a  Church  and  as  missionaries  representing  the 
Savior  in  the  mission  field,  we  cannot  but  acknowledge  the  eternal 
fitness  of  these  men,  times  and  occurrence  of  things,  just  as  Columbus 
was  led  to  discover  the  new  world,  although  his  reward  was  the  return 
to  the  old  country  in  chains.  Just  as  John  Milton  was  led  to  the  steps 
of  the  palace  of  Whitehall  Chapel  three  hundred  years  ago  with  his 
plea  for  "Liberty  of  the  press,"  although  diplomacy  drove  him  into 
seclusion  and  exile.  A  courtier  at  the  court  told  him  that  one  of  two 
things  would  happen,  he  would  either  be  locked  up  in  the  castle  or 
lose  his  head.  But  the  intellectual  germ  of  Milton's  "Plea"  fell  into 
the  hands  of  Englishmen,  Frenchmen,  Germans,  Scotchmen,  Yankees, 
Turks,  Japs  and  Russians ;  and  liberty  and  freedom  were  born  and 
realized.  Galileo,  Luther  and  Washington  are  further  examples  of  the 
eternal  fitness  of  men  and  messages. 

Joseph  Smith,  God's  great  prophet,  came  in  the  right  century  and 
to  the  right  nation  and  country.  He  could  not  so  successfully  have 
delivered  his  message  in  an  earlier  century  or  in  another  country. 
And  these  things  are  marvelous  in  contemplation,  but  we  see  our 
Father's  regulatory  and  supervisory  guidance  of  time  and  events  for 
the  benefit  of  his  people. 

I  am  happy  to  testify  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  am  happy  to  have  the  privilege  of  testifying  to  the  people  of  the 
earth.  God  bless  our  leaders  today  and  all  who  follow.  May  we  have 
that  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  the  richest  gift  of  God,  that  will  ultimately 
lead  us  into  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  and  bring  us  eternal  life,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Since  our  last  Conference  it  has  been  my  happy  pleasure  to  go 
on  the  streets  of  Portland  one  evening  and  witness  a  street  meeting 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


131 


being  held  by  the  missionaries  there.  Sister  Ada  Strong  of  Salt  Lake 
City  was  speaking  and  gave  a  most  excellent  discourse  on  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  A  well-dressed  gentleman  walked 
into  the  crowd  and  stood  right  near  my  side.  He  said  in  an  undertone 
voice,  loud  enough  that  I  could  hear  what  he  was  saying :  "There  they 
are,  telling  the  same  old  story,  and  there  is  nothing  to  it." 

I  wish  that  gentleman  were  here  today.  I  wish  that  he  could  wit- 
ness this  vast  gathering  of  men  and  women,  the  cream  of  the  earth, 
and  I  wonder  if  he  could  then  make  such  a  statement.  I  wish  that 
he  might  hear  this  wonderful  choir  that  we  have  listened  to  today  with 
so  much  pleasure  and  interest,  I  wish  he  could  hear  this  world-famed 
organ  of  ours ;  and  I  wonder  if  he  then  could  say  there  is  nothing  to 
this  work. 

Is  it  possible,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  that  a  young  man 
such  as  Joseph  Smith  was,  with  five  colleagues,  one  hundred  years 
ago — these  boys  as  they  were,  all  under  thirty-one  years  of  age,  six 
of  them  together  in  a  room — could  effect  and  establish  an  organization 
out  of  which  has  grown  a  Church  that  today  stands  the  marvel  of  the 
world?  It  is  ridiculous  to  think  that,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  light 
that  this  man  thought  of  it.  So  I  want  to  give  you  that  thought  today. 

I  am  happy  to  contemplate  the  words  of  men  like  the  grand  old 
man  known  as  the  Dean  of  American  Education,  Dr.  Winship,  who 
said  that  Utah  stands  positively  in  the  forefront  of  all  the  States  of 
the  Union  in  her  activities  for  the  saving  of  the  youth.  He  said  that 
he  had  praised  Utah  and  the  Mormons  in  every  State  of  the  Union, 
and  had  never  had  anything  to  apologize  for. 

Dr.  Nixon  Carver  said : 

"I  have  never  found  more  sound  and  wholesome  personal  habits  than  among 
the  Mormons ;  I  have  never  mingled  with  a  people  who  showed  fewer  signs 
of  dissipation;  I  have  never  studied  groups  of  people  who  seemed  better 
nourished  and  more  healthful ;  I  have  never  known  of  a  people  who  took  greater 
pains  to  educate  their  children."  "This  gives  a  clue  to  the  success  of  the 
Mormons  as  colonizers  and  Nation  Builders."  "I  have  studied  the  philosophy 
of  the  world,  both  ancient  and  modern,  but  the  greatest  of  all  philosophies 
is  the  philosophy  of  Mormonism." 

George  Wharton  James,  an  American  writer,  said: 

"The  boy  Joseph  Smith  was  but  a  hundred  years  ahead  of  his  time.  Yet, 
he  being  dead  yet  speaketh.  The  work  he  began  has  never  ceased.  Who  can 
explain  Joseph  Smith?  What  is  their  test?  Is  it  not  beyond  all  reason  that  a 
lad,  born  of  poor  parents,  devoid  of  any  save  the  commonest  education,  too  poor 
to  buy  books,  should  have  accomplished  what  he  did  in  less  than  forty  years, 
unless  there  was  some  great  reason  for  it?" 

"Let  anyone,  even  a  literary  genius  after  forty  years  of  life,  try  to  write 
a  companion  volume  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  then  almost  daily  fpr  a 
number  of  years  give  out  'revelations'  by  the  score  that  internally  harmonize 
one  with  another,  at  the  same  time  formulate  a  system  of  doctrine  for  a  new 
church,  introduce  many  new  priniciples,  resuscitate  extinct  priesthoods,  and 
formulate  a  system  of  church  government  which  has  no  superior  on  earth." 

"To  deny  to  such  a  man  wonderful  power  over  the  human  heart  and  intellect 
is  absurd.   Only  fanatical  prejudice  can  ignore  it.   However  he  may  be  accounted 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  by  the  reasoning  mind,  Joseph  Smith  the  Mormon  Prophet  was  one  of  the 
wonders  of  his  time." 

Sir  Arthur  Conan  Doyle,  the  great  novelist  and  spiritualist,  said 
he  believed  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  medium. 

Many  of  the  notables  whom  I  could  mention  are  just  as  loud  in 
their  praise  and  have  a  true  appreciation  of  this  wonderful  Church  and 
its  organization. 

I  remember  a  year  ago  listening  to  the  words  of  President  Nibley1 
when  he  said  among  other  things,  "Brethren,  make  sacrifices  for  mis- 
sions." I  would  like  to  tell  you  just  one  instance  that  has  come  to 
pass  in  my  own  observation. 

Two  boys  from  a  nearby  Stake,  brothers  they  were,  both  received 
calls  to  go  on  missions.  Their  father  was  in  poor  circumstances  and 
had  a  heavy  mortgage  on  his  property.  He  was  unable  to  even  pay 
the  interest  that  had  accumulated  for  a  number  of  years.  These  boys 
willingly  accepted  the  call  and  came  to  Salt  Lake  City.  One  of  them 
was  called  to  the  Southern  States  and  the  other  to  the  Northwestern 
States.  After  they  had  attended  the  mission  school  for  two  weeks 
the  older  boy  said :  "Brother,  we  have  only  twenty  dollars  between  us, 
not  enough  to  take  us  both  to  our  fields  of  labor.  You  take  this  money 
and  go  to  the  Northwest,  and  I  shall  go  back  home  and  help  father  on 
the  farm." 

The  younger  brother  said :  "No,  brother,  you  are  the  older,  you 
go."  But  the  older  remonstrated,  and  said,  "No,  you  shall  go."  And 
finally  the  younger  boy  took  the  twenty  dollars  and  came  to  the  North- 
west. The  first  thing  he  knew  his  brother  had  not  gone  home,  but 
had  gone  to  the  Southern  States.  And  these  two  boys  are  in  the  field 
today.  Last  year  that  good  father  not  only  was  blessed  by  having 
two  sons  in  the  mission  field,  but  his  finances  were  such  that  he  paid  all 
of  the  back  interest  on  the  mortgage,  and  he  was  able  to  make  a 
substantial  payment  on  the  principal  of  the  mortgage  on  the  property. 

God  bless  you.  The  missionaries  in  the  Northwest,  I  think,  are  as 
happy  as  young  men  and  young  women  could  be.  I  want  to  say  that 
the  Lord  has  greatly  favored  me  and  blessed  me  in  my  association  with 
the  leaders  of  this  Church,  and  I  love,  respect  and  admire  them.  And 
I  am  blessed  in  the  wonderful  companionship  that  I  have  with  one  of 
the  sweetest  companions  in  all  the  world.  She  too  is  enjoying  her 
work  in  the  mission.  I  pray  God's  blessings  to  be  with  you  and  with 
us,  that  we  shall  continue  onward  and  upward  with  this  work  unto 
the  perfect  day,  which  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

SISTER  LOUISE  Y.  ROBISON 

President  of  the  Relief  Society 

In  an  address  given  by  our  dear  President  Grant  in  Relief  Society 
Conference  last  Thursday  afternoon,  he  said,  "I  have  no  fear  for  the 
Church  .of  Jesus  Christ  as  long  as  the  women  of  the  Church  are  de- 
voted to  its  principles."    This  implies  a  great  responsibility,  also  a 


SISTER  LOUISE  Y,  ROB  I  SON 


133 


challenge  to  Us  to  analyze  ourselves  and  find  if  we  are  meeting  the 
requirements. 

Attention  has  been  called  most  forcibly  by  speakers  in  this  Con- 
ference to  the  disregard  of  law  by  the  people  of  the  United  States. 
This  should  be  the  concern  of  every  mother,  and  she  should  ask  wherein 
she  can  help  correct  this  situation. 

A  simple  suggestion  would  be  to  avoid  criticism  of  any  person 
in  authority,  either  civil  or  religious,  before  our  children.  It  is  an 
easy  matter  to  cause  distrust  in  their  minds.  They  have  not  the  phil- 
osophy to  reason  things  out  and  the  world  is  insecure  to  them.  Un- 
fortunately when  we  break  down  the  confidence  of  our  children  in 
those  holding  authority,  it  is  not  long  before  the  advice  of  parents  is 
questioned. 

The  cause  of  prohibition,  in  which  we  are  so  interested,  is  often 
weakened  by  the  comments  made  in  the  home.  If  a  parent,  in  whom 
the  child  has  confidence,  criticizes  an  enforcement  officer  or  expresses 
the  opinion  that  the  law  can  never  be  enforced,  the  effect  it  must  have 
on  young  people  is  soon  apparent.  Wje  must  remember  that  the  men 
and  women  of  the  future  will  be  only  as  strong  as  we  help  our  boys 
and  girls  to  be  in  our  homes. 

Speaking  of  prohibition,  only  last  summer  I  heard  the  Commis- 
sioner of  Education  of  Idaho,  speaking  in  defense  of  prohibition, 
declare  that  it  is  a  mistake  to  say  there  is  more  drinking  among  business 
men  now  than  formerly.  He  referred  to  a  group  of  Union  Pacific 
men  who  met  in  Nebraska  less  than  twenty  years  ago,  and  before  the 
first  evening  was  over  there  were  few  men  who  had  not  been  drinking. 
Approximately  this  same  group  met  in  Denver  within  the  last  two  years. 
Mr.  Gray,  the  president,  heard  there  were  four  men  who  were  drinking. 
He  found  them,  put  them  on  the  train  and  sent  them  homej  dismissed 
from  the  company. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God,  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  really  did  have  his  mission  given  him  by  our  Father  in 
heaven.  May  all  mothers  have  the  Spirit  of  God  to  be  with  them  that 
they  may  never  say  anything  unlovely  or  unworthy !  May  we,  as 
Latter-day  Saint  mothers,  ever  be  true  to  the  covenants  we  have  made, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

SISTER  RUTH  MAY  FOX 

President  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  last  Sunday  evening  I  attended  a  mis- 
sionary farewell.  The  young  man  was  quite  bashful  and  while  he 
was  getting  up  he  heard  a  dog  bark  on  the  outside.  So  he  opened 
his  remarks  by  saying,  "How  I  envy  that  dog!" 

I  have  been  feeling  that  to  be  in  a  comfortable  chair  by  the  radio 
at  home  would  be  a  very  happy  condition.  However  I  realize  that  I 
am  not  standing  before  you  because  of  any  merit  of  my  own,  but  I  am 
here  to  represent  my  counselors  and  the  young  ladies  of  my  board  and 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


about  twelve  thousand  splendid  officers  in  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  Association. 

I  am  very  proud  and  happy  to  stand  here  and  represent  them.  In 
that  capacity  I  would  like  to  remind  the  audience  that  one  of  the  books 
on  our  reading  course  this  year  is  "The  Life  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,"  written  by  our  late  Brother  George  Q.  Cannon.  ;We  feel  sure 
that  if  you  will  read  it  and  encourage  your  family  to  read  it  your  sym- 
pathies will  be  renewed  for  the  founders  of  this  Church  and  your  faith 
will  be  increased. 

This  morning  as  I  sat  in  this  great  congregation  I  felt  that  it  was  a 
very  great  privilege  and  blessing  to  be  one  of  the  ten  thousand  who  were 
here  assembled.  I  testify  to  you  that  the  words  that  have  fallen  from 
the  lips  of  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  from  this  stand  have  been 
verily  the  words  of  God,  given  to  us  by  the  voice  of  his  servants,  and 
so  I  think  I  cannot  do  better  than  to  remind  you  of  the  Savior's  words 
when  he  said : 

"Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken 
him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock; 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and  beat 
upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not;  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

-"And  everyone  that  heareth  of  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand ; 

"And  the  rain  descended  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and  beat 
upon  that  house;  and  it  fell;  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  and  I  are  building  our  houses  upon 
the  rock.  May  God  help  us  to  build  them  so  strong  that  no  matter 
how  hard"  the  winds  may  blow  or  the  rains  descend  our  houses  shall 
never  fall.    God  grant  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

SISTER  MAY  ANDERSON 

General  Superintendent  of  the  Primary  Association 

This  splendid  Conference  would  not  be  entirely  complete  without 
reporting  that  the  children  of  this  Church  are  being  cared  for,  that  the 
children's  organization,  the  Primary  Association,  has  about  one  hundred 
thousand  members,  with  about  ten  thousand  women  who  are  all  striving 
to  help  in  the  work  of  prevention  rather  than  the  work  of  cure. 

The  Church  asks  us  to  teach  the  children  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  to  take  care  of  their  leisure  time  activities,  and  to  bear  in  mind 
that  every  boy  and  girl  born  in  the  Church  has  the  right  to  a  strong 
body,  that  he  and  she  may  make  their  way  in  the  world  as  fairly  as 
possible. 

For  the  religious  instruction  we  are  using  the  Articles  of  our  Faith, 
and  we  think  it  the  greatest  code  of  moral  conduct  that  was  ever  pro- 
duced. As  we  are  using  it  we  shall  probably  send  into  the  homes  of  the 
people  of  the  Church  thousands  of  little  cards  bearing  the  Articles  of 
Faith. 

For  the  supervision  of  the  leisure  time  activities  of  the  children 


SISTER  MAY  ANDERSON 


135 


we  are  providing  safe  and  sane  activities  that  will  give  them  joy  and 
pleasure,  that  will  help  them  to  be  happy  and  good. 

In  our  labors  for  the  health  of  the  children  of  the  Church  we  use 
that  wonderful  blessing,  that  divine  revelation,  that  has  been  given 
to  us,  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  In  our  health  program  we  include  a 
hospital  where  we  hope  to  take  care  of  any  boy  or  girl  who  needs  med- 
ical or  surgical  aid  and  whose  parents  are  not  able  to  provide  the 
necessary  care. 

Now,  how  shall  we  connect  up  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  put  this  thing  over  splendidly?  I  am  happy  for  this  opportunity 
to  say  that  we  hope  the  Bishops  will  stand  with  us  in  helping  to  get 
the  boys  ready  for  the  Priesthood.  We  hope  the  Mutuals  will  stand  with 
us  in  getting  the  boys  ready  for  Scouting.  We  hope  that  every  home 
in  this  Church  will  stand  with  us  to  provide  the  right  foundation.  We 
shall  plead,  and  we  hope  not  in  vain,  that  there  will  foe  no  home  in  our 
Church  where  boys  and  girls  will  know  anything  about  liquor.  We  hope 
there  will  be  no  home-made  wine  in  any  home  in  our  Church.  We 
hope  there  will  be  no  coffee,  no  tea,  no  tobacco.  We  plead  with  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  make  life  safe  for  the  fooys  and  girls. 
Prevention  is  eminently  better  than  cure.  There  is  nothing  that  is 
more  favorable  nor  better  than  the  home.  We  can  only  add  to  what 
you  do. 

One  other  thing  that  we  are  doing  and  have  been  doing  for  a  long 
time  is  to  persuade  the  people  of  our  Church  that  activities  for  boys 
and  girls  should  be  in  the  daytime  and  that  there  should  not  be  any 
inducement  offered  to  our  youngsters  to  be  out  at  night.  Night  is 
dangerous,  and  when  boys  and  girls  go  out  on  the  streets  away  from 
their  fathers  and  mothers  no  one  can  tell  what  is  happening.  We  hear 
some  strange  stories,  and  we  are  saying  to  you  with  all  the  ardor  of 
our  beings  that  we  want  you  fathers  and  mothers  to  stand  with  us 
to  make  this  world  safe  for  our  boys  and  girls. 

Let  us  live  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  what  we  eat  and  what  we  drink 
and  also  in  the  way  in  which  we  take  care  of  the  time  God  has  given 
us.  That  you  will  stand  for  the  finest  homes  in  the  world,  for  the  finest 
children  from  such  homes,  and  that  the  Primary  Association  may  be 
indeed  a  real  help  in  the  Church,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church, 
also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  who  were  voted  upon  and  unani- 
mously sustained  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


136 


GENERAL  'CONFERENCE 


Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Presiding  Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH   HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH   BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.-  Ivins  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


137 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 


Joseph  F.  Merrill 


AUDITING  COMMITTEE 


Henry  H.  Rolapp 


Peter  G.  Johnston 


Orval  Wl  Adams 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 


Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor 
David  A.  Smith,  President 


B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 
George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 


ORGANISTS 


Edward  P.  Kimball 


Alexander  Schreiner 


Frank  W.  Asper 


CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  Anderson 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
Julia  F.  Lund,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  Second  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  time  has  expired,  but  I  cannot  refrain  from  saying  a  few  words. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  splendid  attendance  we  have  had  here  today. 


PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  has  been  remarkable.  I  am  thankful  for  the  rich  outpouring  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  am  grateful  for  the  splendid  singing  that 
we  have  listened  to  and  for  all  of  the  inspired  remarks  that  have 
been  made;  particularly  am  I  thankful  for  the  splendid  testimonies 
averaging  from  three  to  five  minutes — all  kept  within  the  time.  I  am 
very  grateful  indeed  for  these  testimonies.  I  wish  we  had  time  to 
hear  them  at  greater  length,  but  the  simple  declaration  of  a  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work  from  the  men  and  women  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  missionary  work  and  the  auxiliary  associations  in 
this  Church  is  a  source  of  great  satisfaction,  and  these  testimonies 
cannot  be  denied.  No  matter  whether  people  believe  them  or  not,  those 
of  us  who  have  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  know  that 
they  are  true,  because  we  have  that  same  testimony  ourselves. 

I  did  not  make  any  remarks  at  the  close  of  the  last  Conference 
because  the  time  had  expired.  But  I  have  made  up  my  mind  that  in 
the  future  even  if  the  time  has  expired  I  am  going  to  say  a"  few 
things  that  are  in  my  mind. 

APPRECIATION  OF  ELDER  ROBERTS'  WORK 

I  want  to  express  my  gratitude,  my  thanks,  my  love  and  my 
blessing  to  Brother  Brigham  H.  Roberts  for  the  marvelous  and  inspiring 
energy  that  he  has  put  forth  in  producing  the  six  great  volumes  of 
the  history  of  this  Church.  It  is  a  monumental  labor  and  he  has 
worked  at  it  day  and  night.  I  know  of  no  man  who  has  been  more 
diligent  in  his  labors  for  the  Church,  day  in  and  day  out,  than  Brother 
Roberts  has  been  preparing  this  great  history,  and  he  has  the  gratitude 
of  all  the  brethren  of  the  Presidency  and  the  Apostles  for  the  diligence, 
the  great  care  and  attention  that  he  has  given  to  the  production  of  these 
volumes.  He  is  still  busily  engaged,  more  perfectly  arranging  the 
indexes,  etc.,  for  the  history.  I  rejoice  in  this  wonderful  accomplish- 
ment. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  WORK  OF  CHOIR 

I  was  thrilled  by  the  United  States  Marine  band  concert  that  was 
held  in  this  building  recently.  I  enjoyed  it  very  much.  But  the  real 
thrill  came  when  I  heard  the  two  selections  that  were  rendered  by  our 
Choir.  I  have  never  heard  our  sweet  singer,  Sister  Laurinda  P. 
Brewerton,  who  sang  the  solo  part  in  "Inflammatus,"  sing  better  at  any 
time  than  she  did  on  that  occasion.  It  seemed  to  me  that  she  was 
inspired.   I  know  that  the  band  must  have  been  inspired. 

I  rejoice  in  the  broadcasting.  I  repeat  the  gratitude  of  the  General 
Authorities  to  the  employers  of  the  members  of  our  Choir  who  are 
excused  each  week  in  order  to  participate  in  this  broadcast. 

BLESSING  AND  TESTIMONY 

I  wanted  to  say  this  much,  and  I  want  to  leave  my  blessing  upon 
all  the  General  Authorities,  the  General  Officers,  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  the  Bishops  of  Wards,  the  Presidents  of  Branches,  Presidents 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


139 


of  Missions  and  all  men  and  women  in  any  place  of  responsibility  in 
this  Church.  They  have  my  love,  my  confidence  and  my  blessing,  also 
the  blessing  of  my  Counselors.  I  leave  my  blessing  upon  all  Israel, 
and  upon  all  honest  people  the  world  over.  I  thank  God  that  I  know 
he  lives,  that  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and 
all  the  doubt  of  all  the  world  cannot  change  the  knowledge  that  God 
has  given  to  me  and  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  the  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands. May  God's  blessings  attend  you  all,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  anthem,  "Worthy  the  Lamb,"  was  rendered  by  the  Choir. 
President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  pronounced  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  at  all  of  the  sessions 
of  the  Conference.  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Frank  Asper  played  the 
accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


\ 


INDEX 

Anderson,  Sister  May  134 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   135 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J.    48 

The  foundation  of  a  great  work,  48-p-An  ensign  unto  the  people, 
49 — True  Christianity's  opportunity,  49 — Power  to  solve  the 
world's  problems,  49— The  Lord's  plan  for  helping  the  poor,  SO — 
A  solution  for  capital  and  labor  problems,  51 — A  Standard  for  the 
perfection  of  men's  lives,  52 — For  /the  establishing  of  peace,  52. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0  125 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   14 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   99 

Destiny  of  this  work,  99 — Welfare  of  Church  members,  99 — 
Material  affairs,  part  of  our  religion,  100 — Injunction  to  work, 
100 — Work  days  per  week,  100 — Necessity  of  work,  100 — Value 
of  work,  101 — Results  of  labor,  101 — Right  to  work,  101 — Special- 
ization, 102 — Man's  stewardship,  102 — Tithepayers  and  employ- 
ment, 102 — Economic  conditions,  102 — Stimulation  of  industry 
and  construction,  103 — How  the  Church  can  help,  103 — Help 
members  to  help  themselves,  103 — Employment  Bureau,  103 — 
Employment  plan,  104 — Results  in  Mar  Vista  Ward,  104— Bene- 
fits to  the  priesthood,  105. 

Clark,  Elder  J.  Reuben   98 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   75 

The  dual  nature  of  man,  75 — The  Gospel — everlasting  and  ever- 
interesting,  75 — A  sacred  volume  of  scripture,  76 — An  extremely 
important  work,  76 — Saving  principles,  77 — A  new  birth,  77 — 
Salvation  in  no  other  way,  78—  Fulfilling  an  important  obliga- 
tion, 78 — A  partnership  with  God,  78 — Advice  concerning  mar- 
riage, 79 — For  time  only  or  for  eternity?  79. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  >   23 

Fox,  Sister  Ruth  May  133 

.General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  135 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  ..."  137 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  136 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Centennial  celebration  publicity,  2 — Attitude  of  the  press,  3 — 
Source  of  gratitude,  3 — For  what  we  are,  4 — In  iulfilment  of 
prophecy,  4— Marvelous  resources,  5 — Signs  of  the  times,  5 — 
Never  while  the  world  stands,  5 — During  one  hundred  years, 

6 —  Witness  to  the  world,  6 — The  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 

7 —  In  deep  gratitude,  7.  , 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   69 

Statement  of  statistics,  69. 


INDEX  141 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   80 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   97 

Introducing  Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  97. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   105 

Returned  mission  presidents  who  have  not  reported,  105. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  .112 

Response  from  radio  broadcasting,  etc.,  113. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  117 

Prominent  Church  men  who  have  passed  away,  117. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  125 

Remaining  speakers  requested  to  be  brief  in  their  remarks,  125. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  135 

Authorities  sustained,  135. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  137 

Appreciation  of  Elder  Roberts'  work,  138 — Gratitude  for  work 
of  Choir,  138 — Blessing  and  testimony,  138. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  114 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  '.  117 

Newspaper  headlines,  118 — Signs  of  Christ's  coming,  118 — Ful- 


filment follows,  119 — Three  centuries  later,  121 — Significance  of 
scripture,  121 — Light  and  knowledge,  122 — Visit  to  St.  George, 
122 — A  silent  prayer,   123 — Early  day  fidelity,  123 — Good  men 


needed  in  office,  123. 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L  128 

Kimball,  Elder  Edward  P  107 

Kimball,  Elder  Jonathan  G   58 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   29 


Revolt  natural  to  Americans,  29 — Revolt  now  disastrous,  30 — ■ 
Aiding  the  cause  of  anarchy,  30 — Sworn  duty  of  officers,  30 — 
Twelve  million  women,  30— What  one  hundred  can  do,  31 — 
Prohibition  a  success,  31 — Drinking  in  Europe,  32 — Conditions  in 
colleges,  32 — Workers  become  capitalists,  33 — Ideals  of  the  liquor 
traffic,  33 — Shall  we  go  back?  33 — Liquor  the  breeder  of  crime, 
34 — Business  demanded  prohibition,  34 — "Rule  G,"  34 — What 
prohibition  has  accomplished,  35 — "Government  control,"  35 — 


Testimony  of  a  Canadian,  36— A  flood  of  alcohol,  36 — Is  liquor 
necessary?  37. 

McKay,  Elder  David  O   8 

The  citizen's  responsibility,  8 — Prevention  rather  than  cure,  9 — 
The  power  and  influence  of  money,  9 — The  aristocracy  of  char- 
acter, 10 — Child  guidance,  10 — During  leisure  hours,  11 — An  ex- 
ample worthy  of  imitation,  11 — Its  effect  upon  citizenship,  12: — 
The  means  provided  by  the  Church  organization,  13 — Not  all 
bad,  13. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   38 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H  126 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   95 

In  a  changed  world,  96 — The  unemployed  need  help,  96 — 'Na- 
tions perplexed,  97 — How  to  help  the  poor,  97. 

Pond,  Eldeir  Noah  S   130 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   26 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   53 

Gratitude  for  blessings  of  Lord,  53 — Testimony  regarding  this 
work,  S3 — Not  accepted  in  their  own  day,  54 — The  faith  of  our 
fathers,  54 — Our  obligation,  55 — Pertaining  to  our  kindred  dead, 
55 — Serving  a  two-fold  purpose,  56 — According  to  our  knowl- 
edge, 56 — Our  responsibility  to  teach  others,  57. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   17 

Robison,  Sister  Louise  Y  132 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    48 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   70 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R    130 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   61 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   65 

A  blessed  people,  65 — Investigators  in  the  missions,  66 — The 
parable  of  the  wedding  feast,  66 — Our  ministry,  67 — Without  a 
wedding  garment,  68 — Necessary  preparation  for  the  feast,  68 — 
Only  by  keeping  the  commandments,  68 — Testimony,  69. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G  110 

Happiness  through  blessings  of  the  Gospel,  110 — Strive  for  peace, 
110— Making  a  proper  use  of  our  agency,  111 — The  work  of  the 
Lord,  111 — Blessings  through  keeping  commandments,  112 — 
The  needy  and  unemployed,  112. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   23 

An  example  in  righteousness,  23 — Law-abiding  citizens,  24 — In 
a  day  of  wickedness,  24 — The  responsibility  of  the  watchmen 
upon  the  towers,  25 — Our  duty  on  the  Sabbath  Day,  25 — Need 
of  repentance,  26. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    92 

Indifference  of  the  world  toward  religion,  92 — "Believe  the 
works,"  93 — Sometimes  a  lack  of  faith,  94 — Our  great  mission, 
94— Blessings  through  obedience,  95. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   70 

What  is  the  matter  with  the  world?  71 — Idolatry  and  Adultery, 
71 — Living  scriptures,  71 — A  bit  of  ancient  history,  72 — Present 
day  application,  73 — Signs  of  the  covenant  people,  i73 — Com- 
mendation and  admonition,  73 — Exhortation  to  greater  effort,  74. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  "   92 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   113 

Valentine,  Elder  Hyrum  W  106 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur   128 

Wells,  Elder  John    81 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   84 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   43 


Liberty's   perfect  law,  43 — Purpose  of   the   Gospel,  43 — No 

tyranny,  43 — Eternity's  constitution,  43 — A  fundamental  prin- 
ciple, 44 — The  consent  of  the  governed,  44 — -Joseph  and  Oliver, 
44— An  American  Ohurch,  44— God  and  the  people,  45 — Not 


INDEX  143 

yet  qualified,  45 — God  the  Giver,  46 — What  might  have  resulted, 
46 — A  divine  necessity,  46 — Longing-  for  light,  46 — Power  of  the 
priesthood,  47 — The  pure  faith,  47 — God's  work  and  glory,  47. 

Winter,  Elder  Arthur  ',   15 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   41 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    88 


All  Students  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon 

WILL  FIND  THE  BOOK 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon 

By  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

To  be  mighty  interesting  and  illuminating 

"Some  of  the  contents  of  the  book  has  appeared  in  the  IMPROVEMENT  ERA  and 
other  Church  publications  during:  the  last  ten  years,  and  friends  have  been  good 
enough  to  say,  repeatedly*  that  they  would  be  glad  to  have  those  contributions  in  some 
form  more  convenient  for  reference.  Acting  on  their  suggestion,  I  have  collected 
some  papers  previously  published  and  others  that  now  appear  for  the  first  time,  and 
respectfully  submit  them  in  this  form  to  the  public.  In  doing  so,  it  is  my  sincere 
prayer  that  the  testimony  here  offered  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  reader,  and  especially 
to  honest  seekers  after  the  truth." 

Price  $3.50 


"Time  is  the  supreme  test  of  a  prophecy.  He  who  undertakes  to  foretell 
events  must  know  that  Time  in  its  merciless  pursuit  will  find  him  out.  Of  all  the 
pretenses  of  the  false  prophet,  prophesying  is  the  most  hazardous.  Religious  impostors 
often  display  qualities  of  leadership  in  controlling  the  affairs  of  their  followers.  The 
more  modest  their  pretenses,  however,  the  more  likely  are  they  to  escape  detection 
and  exposure.  But  when  spiritual  leaders  assume  to  exercise  the  exalted  function 
of  prophecy,  and  have  the  courage  to  publish  their  prophecies,  they  place  their  reputa- 
tions before  the  bar  of  the  world,  and  as  the  weight  of  Time  presses  out  the  vintage 
of  the  centuries  they  must  sink  to  a  deserving  oblivion  or  be  exalted  to  a  place  in  the 
skies.    Time  is  a  foe  of  Fraud,  but  the  never-failing  friend  of  Truth." 

Now  that  the  claims  of  Joseph  Smith  as  prophet  have  been  set  up  before  the 
world  for  a  century,  it  is  proper  that  the  verdict  of  Time  should  be  ascertained.  To 
disclose  these  findings,  this  volume  is  given  out.  Only  a  few  of  the  well-known 
prophecies  are  here  considered. 

All  this  is  clearly  set  forth  in 

"The  Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  Their  Fulfillment 

By  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS 

Price  $1.50 


Dcscret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  P.  O.  Box  1793  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  veritable  epic  of  empire -building 

The  Life  Story  of 
Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet-maker, 
who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made  him  an  empire- 
builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities;  the  governor  of  one 
of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one  of  the  outstanding  figures 
of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this 
notable  biography.  "A  graphic,  gripping  story,"  he  terms  it,  and  every 
reader  undoubtedly  will  agree  with  his  definition  of  this  life  of  the  in- 
defatigable, indomitable  Brigham  Young,  which  was  written  by  one  of  his 
daughters  and  her  daughter.  The  entire  record  of  the  great  Mormon 
leader  is  unfolded  from  his  birth  in  a  little  Vermont  town  to  his  death  at 
the  age  of  seventy-seven  as  head  of  the  church,  the  success  of  which  was  due 
to  his  courageous  and  arduous  leadership. 

380  Pages,  46  Illustrations,  Bound  in  Dark  Brown  Cloth  with  Gold  Titles. 

Price  $5.00 


HAVE  YOU  EVER  READ 

THE  BOOK  OF  ABRAHAM 

as  contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price?  A  vivid  story  of  the  creation  of 
the  earth,  and  a  wonderful  description  of  the  constellations  in  the  vast 
expanse  of  the  heavens. 

Buy  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  now,  and  read  what  Abraham  wrote. 

Price  50c 

Descret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


