I/  O  /  Ml 


SEVENTY-THIRD  / 


Semnannual 

Conference 


CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LAT- 
TER-DAY SAINTS, 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  4th,  5th  and  6th, 
1902,  with  a  full  report  of  the  discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFER? 
ENCE  OF  THE  DESERET  SUNDAY 
SCHOOL  UNION. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS. 
1 90S** 


Profusely  Illustrated 

A  Magazine  and  a 

with  Etchings  and 

Daily  Newspaper 

T  T    f f  T' 

Han  1  ones. 

Combined. 

The 
Saturday 
News 

24  PAGES. 


Sent  to  any  address 

To  regular  subscribers 

for    $2.00   a  Year. 

of    the    Semi  -Weekly 

j^fc  t£^* 

News,  $1.50  a  Year. 

General  Conference 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


o 

■3* 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-third  Semi-annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m., 
on  Saturday,  Oct.  4,  1902,  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  presiding. 

There  were  present  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities: Of  the  First  Presidency,  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and  An- 
thon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  there  were:  John  Hen- 
ry Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Marriner 
W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abra- 
ham O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson. 
Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith;  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  of  the  Church,  John 
Smith;  first  seven  presidents  of  Seven- 
ties, Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G. 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin;  of  the  presiding  Bishopric, 
William  B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton 
and  Orrin  P.  Miller.  There  were  like- 
wise a  large  number  of  presidents  of 
Stakes,  their  counselors  ->nd  other  lead- 
ing men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  which  begins: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Collins 
R.  Hakes. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 


Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 
On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 
Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 
Our  King,  our  Deliverer,  our  all. 


»  rs 


r+  on 


OPENING  ADDRESS. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Greeting— Causes  for  thanksgiving— God's  bless- 
ings increase  through  faithfulness  —  More 
Temples  to  be  built — Great  responsibility 
resting  upon  the  Saints. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
greet  you  heartily  this  morning  in  your 
attendance  at  this  the  73rd  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  I  am  pleased 
to  see  such  a  good  representation  here 
this  morning.  Especially  am  I  pleased 
tn  see  so  many  of  the  presiding  au- 
thorities of  the  Church — the  Apostles 
and  the  presidents  of  stakes,  and  also 
many  of  the  presidents  of  the  various 
missions  of  the  Church.  It  is  indeed 
gratifying  to  see  these  our  brethren 
assembled  here,  on  whom  rests  so  greit 
a  responsibility,  they  having  been  en- 
trusted with  the  proclamation  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and 
with  the  care  of  the  flock  of  Christ  in 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

During  this  conference  we  desire,  as 
far  as  the  time  will  permit,  to  give  an 
opportunity  to  as  many  as  possible  of 
the  Elders  who  are  presiding  abroad, 
and  of  the  presidents  of  the  stakes  o* 


2 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Zicn,  to  express  themselves;  and  in  or- 
der that  we  may  reach  as  many  as  pos- 
sible, we  desire  that  the  brethren  who 
speak  shall  have  that  portion  of  the 
Sp'rit  of  God  that  will  enable  them  to 
speak  clearly,  pointedly  and  briefly  up  - 
on  those  subjects  that  may  come  to 
their  minds. 

We  have  here  the  Apostles,  the  Pres- 
idents of  the  Seventies,  and  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric,  who  are  practically  tra  v- 
eling' Elders  in  the  Church,  visiting  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  the  various  mission 
fields,  from  time  to  time,  and  they  are 
especially  posted  in  relation  to  the  con- 
dition of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the 
various  fields  that  they  have  visited 
and  will  be  able  to  speak  to  us  in  rela- 
tion to  those  subjects  and  matte  :-s 
that  will  be  most  interesting  and  neces- 
sary for  the  general  enlightenment  of 
those  who  have  come  to  the  conference, 
and  to  the  edification  of  the  whole  peo- 
ple. 

We  desire  to  say  to  the  people  th-it 
we  feel  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  for 
His  continued  mercy  unto  us,  and,  noL- 
w  ithstanding  the  drouth  of  the  past 
season,  which  has  been  almost  unpre  ■ 
cedented  in  many  parts  of  the  country, 
we  feel  that  the  Saints  have  been  great- 
iv  blessed,  and  that  there  will  be  r.o 
necessity  for  any  great  lack  or  want 
among  the  people  in  consequence  of  the 
drouth,  but  we  feel  that  all  will  be 
blessed  with  sufficient  for  their  needs. 
In  many  parts  of  the  country  we  have 
been  exceedingly  blessed.  There  has 
been  an  abundance  of  water,  and  in 
some  sections  our  people  have  been 
visited  by  unprecedented  rains,  result- 
ing in  great  floods,  which  have  done 
nr. ore  or  less  damage  to  the  people;  bvt 
this,  of  course,  is  not  to  a  very  great 
extent. 

We  feel  in  our  hearts  that  Zion  is 
prospering,  and  that  all  is  well  with 
the  people  of  God  at  large;  still,  we  re- 
alize that  there  is  great  room  for  us 
to  improve,  and  that  the  opportunities 
for  advancement  are  very  extensive. 
We  hope  that  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  continue  their  diligence  and  faith- 
fulness before  the  Lord  in  the  work  in 
which  they  are  engaged,  that  Zion  may 
continue  to  flourish  in  the  tops  of  the 
mountains,  and  that  the  purposes  of 


God  Almighty  concerning  His  peop^ 
and  His  work  in  the  latter  days  may  be 
consummated  and  fully  realized.  We 
fe<*l  that  the  Lord  will  bless  His  peo- 
ple, and  the  earth,  for  their  sake,  in 
the  future  more  abundantly  than  in  the 
past.  In  proportion  as  we  renew  and 
redouble  our  diligence  and  faithfulness 
betore  the  Lord  in  keeping  His  com- 
mandments and  walking  in  all  right- 
tcusness  and  acceptableness  before 
Him,  so  will  His  blessings  x>e  increas- 
ed upon  the  people,  and  upon  all  their 
substance,  and  upon  the  earth  which 
they  inhabit. 

We  congratulate  you,  brethren  arid 
sifters,  on  your  appearance  here  this 
morning,  and  we  pray  God  to  pour  out 
upon  you  and  upon  all  of  us  His  Ho'y 
Spirit  during  this  Conference,  that  we 
may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing,  and  that 
we  may  be  able  to  act  intelligently 
and  wisely  on  all  matters  of  business 
that  may  be  presented  before  us;  that 
we  may  have  the  spirit  of  union,  love 
and  devotion  to  the  cause  of  Zion  abid- 
ing in  our  hearts;  that  we  may  have  no 
feelings  of  dissension,  but  that  we  may 
be  one,  that  we  may  be  indeed  the  peo- 
ple of  God. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  prolong  my 
remarks  this  morning,  but  I  desired  to 
express  my  gratitude  to  my  Father 
in  heaven  for  all  His  mercies  and  bless- 
ings unto  us. 

We  will  say  to  the  people  that  we 
have  no  reason  to  complain  of  the  dili- 
gence of  the  Saints,  so  far  as  we  are 
able  to  judge,  in  keeping  the  law  of 
tithing.  We  believe  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  observing  that  law  as 
faithfully  as  they  have  ever  done,  and 
we  beseech  of  you  that  you  will  con- 
tinue to  do  this  until  our  hands  shall 
be  freed  from  all  obligations,  and  until 
we  shall  have  means  in  the  storehouse 
of  the  Lord  with  which  to  accomplish 
greater  works,  which  may  be  neces- 
sary to  be  done.  We  feel  there  is  much 
that  can  be  done  and  much  that  ought 
to  be  done  in  the  interests  of  Zion  and 
for  the  benefit  of  the  people  of  God. 

We  feel  that  an  effort  should  be 
made  to  preserve  the  Temples  of  God, 
those  houses  that  have  been  erected  for 
the  purpose  of  administering  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  Gospel  therein  for  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


3 


livmg  and  the  dead.  We  desire  that 
these  building's  shall  be  preserved  and 
kept  in  repair  and  in  a  wholesome  con- 
dition, so  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  dwell  in  them,  and  that  those  who 
minister  therein,  may  feel  the  presence 
and  influence  of  His  Spirit.  We  also 
feel  that  when  the  time  shall  come  and 
our  hands  shall  be  free  from  the  ob- 
ligations that  now  rest  upon  us,  other 
pl'tces  should  be  prepared  for  the  con- 
vergence of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
more  distant  stakes,  in  order  that  those 
who  are  living  at  great  distances  from 
the  center  may  have  the  privilege  of 
receiving  the  ordinances  of  the  Gosp«l 
without  being  put  to  the  great  expense 
and  loss  of  time  that  is  necessary  now 
in  journeying  from  500  to  1,000  miles  in 
order  to  reach  the  houses  of  God.  We 
hope  to  see  the  day  when  we  shall  have 
temples  built  in  the  various  parts  of 
the  land  where  they  are  needed  for  the 
convenience  of  the  people:  for  we  re- 
alize that  one  of  the  greatest  responsi- 
bilities that  rest  upon  the  people  of  God 
today  is  that  their  hearts  shall  be  turn- 
el  unto  their  fathers,  and  that  they 
shall  do  the  work  that  is  necessary  to 
be  done  for  them  in  order  that  they 
may  be  joined  together  fitly  in  the  bond 
of  the  New  and  Everlasting  covenant 
from  generation  to  generation.  For  the 
Lcrd  has  said,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  that  this  is  one  of  the  greatest 
responsibilities  devolving  upon  us  in 
this  latter  day. 

God  help  us  to  do  this  work  and  help 
up.  to  be  faithful,  one  and  all,  that  we 
may  have  means  with  which  to  accom- 
plish it,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON, 
(President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

My  very  beloved  brothers  and  sisters, 
when  I  heard  the  voice  of  the  Prophet 
of  God  say  that  all  is  well  in  Zion,  the 
words  of  one  of  the  Prophets  of  old 
came  to  my  mind: 

"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains 
are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringreth  good 
tidings,  that  publisheth  peace;  that 
bringeth  good  tidings  of  good,  that  pub- 
lisheth salvation;  that  saith  unto  Zion, 
Thy  God  reigneth!" 


In  the  California  Mission  we  are  not 
always  blessed  by  the  presence  of  those 
who  bring  good  tidings  of  good;  we 
often  hear  the  people  of  Zion  villified 
and  spoken  of  evilly.  It  fills  my  heart 
with  joy  to  know  that  those  whose  in- 
terests are  our  interests,  and  who  have 
done  so  much  for  our  common  weal  in 
fostering  our  industries,  can  say  that 
all  is  well,  and  they  have  no  com- 
plaints in  regard  to  the  law  of  tith- 
ing and  other  matters  relating  to  the 
Saints  of  God. 

In  our  mission  we  have  the  same 
spirit  that  characterizes  the  saints  of 
God  in  all  the  world.  The  hearts  of  the 
Saints  there  turn  to  you  in  these  val- 
leys, and  deep  in  their  souls  they  have 
a  desire  to  come  to  the  Temple  of  the 
Lord  and  receive  their  blessings,  and 
some  few  have  been  so  privileged.  They 
feel  a  pride  in  all  your  successes.  When 
they  hear  of  any  great  thing  you  do  or 
any  good  thing  that  is  said  of  you, 
they  rejoice,  and  feel  that  they  are 
entitled  to  do  so,  because  they  are  of 
you,  though  not  with  you.  When  the 
Tabernacle  choir  visited  us  it  feasted 
our  souls.  We  sensed  again  that  the 
prophecy  was  being  fulfilled  wherein 
it  was  said  that  in  Zion  there  should 
be  the  voice  of  thanksgiving  and  mel- 
ody. When  we  lifted  up  our  voices  to- 
gether this  morning  and  sang  in  unison, 
it  brought  to  my  mind  this  saying  of 
old: 

"Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the 
voice;  with  the  voice  together  shall 
they  sing;  for  they  shall  see  eye  to 
eye,  when  the  Lord  shall  bring  again 
Zion." 

The  Saints  of  the  California  Mission 
have  been  valiant  and  earnest  in  the 
payment  of  their  tithes.  They  feel 
that  they  are  adding  to  the  glory  of 
Zion  and  to  the  wealth  of  their  own 
souls  by  the  practice  of  self-abnegation 
and  self-sacrifice.  Though  we  number 
but  about  six  hundred  souls,  and  quite 
a  percentage  of  them,  I  am  sorry  to 
say,  are  not  the  most  faithful,  yet  to 
date  we  have  paid  something  over 
$3,000  in  tithes,  besides  liberal  offer- 
ings. The  Elders  are  valiant,  earnest, 
and  God-fearing;  many  of  them  are 
boys,  several  being  under  twenty  years 
of  age.  Among  them  are  some  most 
promising  speakers,  humble,  childlike. 


4 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


feeling  their  dependence  upon  the  Lord, 
and  knowing  that  it  is  not  sufficient  to 
be  able  to  quote  scripture  to  substan- 
tiate our  belief,  but  that  they  must 
live  in  accordance  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  to  gain  favor  with  the  honorable 
of  the  world.  I  often  tell  them  that  it 
it  not  enough  to  be  able  to  quote  scrip- 
ture; for  many  of  the  people  of  our 
cosmopolitan  state  know  but  little  of 
the  scriptures,  and  many  of  those  who 
have  a  knowledge  of  them  do  not  be- 
lieve them,  and  they  ask  for  more  ma- 
terial results.  "Show  me,"  they  say, 
"wherein  the  Gospel  which  you  teach 
has  benefited  and  helped  you  to  do  bet- 
ter. What  has  it  done  for  your  com- 
monwealth? Show  me  the  logic  or  the 
philosophy  of  the  Gospel  which  you 
preach."  How  soul-satisfying  it  is  to 
be  enabled  to  say  that  it  has  made  a 
peace-loving  people,  a  patriotic  people, 
a  people  that  live  in  their  own  homes  to 
a  very  great  extent,  a  people  that  have 
not  mortgaged  themselves,  a  people 
that  are  tolerant,  a  people  that  have 
been  gathered  out  from  almost  all  lands 
and  climes,  with  one  purpose,  one  am- 
bition, and  have  dropped  their  national 
antipathies  and  animosities,  and  in 
their  children  have  become  one.  When 
I  heard  of  the  reply  that  Ambassador 
White  had  made  to  Count  Tolstoi,  that 
when  the  youth  of  Zion  grew  up  and 
began  to  assert  their  individuality, 
then  the  fabric  which  had  been  woven 
and  the  building  which  had  been  con- 
structed by  Mormonism  would  fall  to 
pieces,  I  thought  how  little  he  knows  of 
us.  I  can  remember  when  our  fathers, 
who  had  been  gathered  from  many 
lands,  had  differences  with  each  other. 
Having  been  brought  up  under  different 
environments  and  training,  they  had 
different  methods  of  gaining  a  liveli- 
hood and  varied  ideas  as  to  what 
should  be  accomplished,  and  sometimes 
they  clashed  one  with  another.  But 
now  we  find  that  their  sons  have 
dropped  the  differences  of  nationality, 
and  enjoying  the  same  testimony  that 
their  fathers  have  borne  in  relation  to 
the  truth  of  the  Gospel  they  are  one  in 
intent  and  purpose,  and  I  trust  are 
more  fixed,  if  possible,  upon  the  one 
object  of  upbuilding  the  kingdom  of 
God  than  were  their  fathers  and  mo- 


thers. This  to  me  is  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ. 

Our  Elders  meet  with  the  same  ex- 
perience that  they  do  in  other  lands. 
During  the  last  five  months  we  have 
met  with  a  great  deal  of  opposition,  es- 
pecially on  the  streets.  Some  few  men 
have  apparently  dedicated  themselves 
to  the  purpose  of  driving  us  out  of  the 
state,  exposing  our  fraud,  as  they  term 
it,  and  the  life  of  hypocrisy  which  they 
accuse  us  of  leading.  They  have  met  us 
on  every  street  corner  and  in  every  way 
imaginable.  When  they  have  learned 
that  we  had  some  friends,  they  have 
sent  people  to  them  to  embitter  their 
minds  against  us;  and  in  one  city  they 
have  gone  so  far  as  to  print  a  little 
tract  about  us,  signed  by  the  ladies  of 
three  leading  religious  organizations. 
This  tract  has  been  distributed  broad- 
cast. They  did  not  pass  by  the  house 
of  the  Elders  even,  but  left  us  a  copjr. 
We  feel  that  this  is  in  part  due  to  the 
visit  of  the  choir  and  to  the  attention 
it  attracted  toward  us  in  that  state, 
and  to  our  renewed  efforts  to  be  heard 
and  seen.  I  have  found  it  necessary  to 
call  upon  the  mayor  and  the  chief  of 
police  of  some  of  the  cities,  and  express 
to  them  the  wish  that  they  would  see 
that  we,  as  American  citizens,  should 
not  be  villified  beyond  endurance;  and  I 
am  glad  to  state  that  they  have  ac- 
corded me  a  most  kindly  hearing  and 
given  me  the  protection  asked  for,  so 
much  so  that  some  of  the  most  per- 
nicious speakers  have  been  told  that 
they  could  no  longer  speak  upon  the 
streets.  By  the  way,  one  of  them  has 
since  been  welcomed  into  the  pulpit  of 
one  of  the  leading  churches  and  Is  now 
preaching  there. 

We  have  not  had  many  baptisms  so 
far  this  year.  It  has  not  been  a  season 
of  harvesting.  But  our  hearts  have 
been  filled  with  joy  because  of  the 
thousands  of  strangers  who  have  heard 
our  testimonies.  In  that  land  of  golden 
sunshine  there  are  thousands  of  people 
from  the  east,  who  come  there  for  the 
sake  of  -  the  climate.  Many  of  them 
come  to  hear  us,  perhaps  in  many  in- 
stances where  they  would  have  nothing 
to  do  with  us  at  their  homes,  because 
of  the  same  spirit  that  Nicodemus  man- 
ifested when  he  came  to  the  Savior  by 


ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE. 


5 


night.  We  have  visited  the  homes  of 
3,000  strangers,  and  re-visited  over 
4,000,  as  well  as  holding  the  Saints  to- 
gether. We  have  distributed  something 
like  38,000  tracts,  besides  loaning  a  num- 
ber of  books.  "We  do  not  have  the  suc- 
cess in  selling  our  literature  that  some 
of  the  brethren  report  in  other  parts 
of  the  United  States.  The  people  do 
not  seem  to  care  to  buy  from  us,  or 
else  we  are  not  very  good  canvassers 
along  that  line.  But  we  have  given 
away  a  goodly  number,  and  are  trying 
to  place  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  par- 
ticular, in  a  way  that  the  people  will 
take  hold  of  it,  because  of  the  price  that 
the  book  is  now  held  at  and  the  gra- 
cious donations  given  to  us  by  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church. 

I  do  not  feel  that  it  would  be  proper, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  me  to  take 
more  of  your  time;  for  you  have  come 
to  hear  the  words  of  the  prophets  of 
the  living  God;  but  my  testimony  is 
that  God  lives,  that  His  work  is  ad- 
vancing, that  we  are  beginning  to  be 
known  as  His  people,  and  that  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  sense  the  fact  that 
there  is  something  in  the  very  genius 
of  the  Gospel  we  teach  which  has  more 
to  do  with  this  life  than  any  of  their 
plans  or  schemes.  They  see,  too,  that 
it  is  beneficial,  and  they  would  rather 
have  something  that  is  practical,  and 
that  does  not  deal  alone  with  the  dead 
past.  Many  friends  have  been  raised  up 
unto  us  who  have  said  that  they  knew 
we  had  more  to  offer  than  any  other 
religious  denomination,  but  that  they 
cared  nothing  for  any  church.  We  have 
been  fortunate  in  becoming  acquainted 
with  some  of  the  leading  citizens  in  the 
state,  and  among  the  medical  frater- 
nity we  have  friends  who  have  cared 
for  the  Elders  and  do  care  for  them 
without  price,  and  who  have  told  me 
to  send  the  Elders  to  them  if  they  ever 
needed  any  consultation.  I  think  some- 
times, because  of  the  reputed  good  cli- 
mate of  California,  that  several  Elders 
have  been  sent  to  me  that  were  not  the 
soundest  in  health.  This  season  1  have 
had  six  or  eight  who  have  had  to  be 
cared  for  nearly  the  whole  season. 

May  God  bless  and  prosper  you  in 
your  labors,  increase  your  love  for  the 
Gospel,  help  you  to  subjugate  your  pas- 


sions, wean  yourselves  of  improper  de- 
sires, correct  your  judgment,  peace  at- 
tend you  in  your  homes  and  joy  await 
you  at  your  gates,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE. 

(President    of  the    Southern  States 
mission.). 

My  Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  joy, 
greater  and  grander  than  I  have  words 
to  express,  to  have  the  privilege  of 
coming  up  to  Zion  occasionally. 
President  Robinson,  who  has  addressed 
you,  succeeded  me  in  the  care  of  the 
California  mission.  I  took  great  pleas- 
ure in  laboring  in  that  mission,  and  in 
turning  it  over  to  him  when  I  was  re- 
leased. It  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  sent  to 
the  Eastern  states,  and  after  laboring 
there  for  a  season,  to  be  sent  into  the 
Southern  states,  where  I  was  met  by 
President  Ben  E.  Rich,  and  given  a 
royal  welcome  into  that  region,  and 
relieved  him  of  a  part  of  his  responsi- 
bilities. 

I  am  not  prepared  to  say  very  much 
about  the  Southern  States  mission,  as  I 
have  hardly  got  seated  in  the  saddle 
yet,  and  have  not  had  a  fair  opportun- 
ity to  know  much  about  it.  I  have 
traveled  through  the  mission,  and  have 
visited  the  Elders  in  their  conferences 
and  labored  somewhat  with  them;  but 
it  is  only  about  three  months  since  I 
went  in  there.  I  find  a  great  differ- 
ence between  laboring  among  the  peo- 
ple of  California  and  the  people  of  the 
"Sunny  South;"  but  I  labor  there  with 
the  greatest  possible  pleasure  and  with 
a  desire  to  bring  souls  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth  and  into  the  fold  of  Christ, 
and  help  to  lift  some  of  them,  at  least, 
upon  a  higher  plane,  that  they  may 
come  up  to  the  standard  required  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  take  joy  in  min- 
istering among  that  people,  and  I  hope 
to  see  the  results  of  my  labors  as  the 
years  roll  on. 

What  is  now  known  as  the  Southern 
States  mission  embraces  the  states  of 
Mississippi,  Alabama,  Georgia,  Florida, 
North  Carolina  and  South  Carolina; 
and  we  have  about  100  Elders  in  the 
field.  We  would  like  to  have  twice 
that  number;  we  could  use  them  very 


6 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


well.  We  hope  we  may  be  permitted 
to  have  many  more  than  we  now  have. 
The  Elders  are  a  brave  and  noble  set. 
You  fathers  who  have  sons  there,  be 
proud  of  them.  You  wives  who  have 
husbands  there,  be  proud  of  them. 
They  are  serving'  God  to  the  very  ut- 
most of  their  ability,  and  they  are  pass- 
ing through  scenes  and  trials  that  you 
have  no  idea  of.  Let  your  prayers  as- 
cend unto  the  Almighty  in  their  be- 
half; for  they  are  faithful  and  valiant 
in  the  discharge  of  their  duties.  I  do 
not  expect  to  do  any  better  there  than 
my  predecessor.  Brother  Rich  »  has 
performed  a  noble  work.  If  that  can 
be  said  of  me  when  I  am  released 
from  that  mission,  as  it  can  justly  be 
said  of  him  today,  I  shall  be  satisfied. 

I  feel  like  taking  the  admonition  of 
the  President  and  not  occupy  too  much 
time.  I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  of  tve 
truth,  and  in  the  opportunity  of  com- 
ing up  here  and  worshiping  once  or 
twice  a  year,  beholding  the  faces  and 
hearing  the  voices  of  the  Prophet  and 
his  associates,  that  I  may  learn  more 
perfectly  the  ways  of  God  and  be  bet- 
ter fitted  and  prepared  to  perform  the 
labors  and  duties  that  rest  upon  me, 
and  go  back  to  my  labors  strengthened, 
filled  with  integrity  and  faith  to  go 
forth  and  prosecute  the  ministry  de- 
volving upon  me.  That  the  blessings 
of  the  Almighty  may  rest  abundantly 
upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  you 
may  grow  and  increase  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth,  and  rise  higher  and 
higher  in  the  standard  of  perfection 
until  you  shall  reach  that  position  that 
the  Almighty  requires  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  come  up  to,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 

(President  of  the  Middle  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  has  been 
promised  by  the  Lord  that  in  the  last 
days  He  would  establish  a  kingdom 
upon  the  earth,  and  the  promise  was 
also  given  that  it  would  never  more  be 
thrown  down  or  given  to  another  peo- 
ple, but  that  it  would  be  like  unto  a 
little  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountains 


without  hands,  which  should  roll  forth 
and  eventually  fill  the  whole  earth  with 
righteousness.  It  was  promised  by  our 
Master  while  He  was  dwelling  in  mor- 
tality that  one  of  the  signs  of  His 
second  coming  would  be  the  preaching 
of  that  Gospel  planted  upon  the  earth 
by  Him,  built  upon  the  foundation  of 
apostles  and  prophets  and  revelation 
from  God,  preached  without  purse  or 
scrip,  the  fundamental  principles  of 
which  would  be  faith  in  Him,  repent- 
ance of  sin,  baptism  for  the  remission 
of  sin,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands. 

We  are  living  in  an  age,  whether 
the  world  believe  it  or  not,  when  these 
promises  are  being  fulfilled;  when  the 
God  of  heaven  has  established  a 
kingdom  upon  the  earth,  and  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  powers  of 
the  earth  have  been  arrayed  against  it 
from  its  organization  up  to  the  present 
time,  it  has  been  rolling  forth,  it  has 
been  growing  and  multiplying  in 
strength  and  influence.  Its  destiny  is 
to  fill  this  earth  with  the  righteous- 
ness of  our  God,  and  it  is  being 
preached  in  fulfillment  of  the  Master's 
word,  as  a  witness  unto  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  before  the  end  of 
Wckedness  shall  come. 

We  have  been  blessed  to  live  in  this 
dispensation,  and  to  be  made  ac- 
quainted with  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel; and  God  has  given  to  us  through 
the  whisperings  of  His  Spirit  a  tes- 
timony of  the  truthfulness  of  the  same. 
It  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  in  the 
world  for  some  little  time,  directing 
the  missionary  work  in  some  of  the 
states  and  aiding  to  warn  the  people  of 
the  world  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to 
come.  We  do  not  anticipate  convert- 
ing the  world.  Our  mission  is  to  gath- 
er in  the  honest  in  heart  from  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  to  warn  all 
mankind,  and  to  preach  the  Gospel  as  a 
witness,  in  fulfillment  of  the  Master's 
word. 

In  the  missionary  field  we  meet  many 
things  that  you  dr  not  meet  at  home. 
Many  things  happen  that  you  pay  no 
attention  to,  and  yet  they  are  mag- 
nified by  the  people  of  the  world;  and 
\.n?ess  the  Almighty  continued  to 
magnify  us  and  our  ability  before  the 


ELDER  BEN  E  RICH. 


7 


people  of  the  world  and  softened  the 
hearts  of  the  people  towards  us,  and 
led  us  to  the  doors  of  those  who  are 
searching  after  the  truth,  we  wou.d 
have  a  very  hard  time  indeed.  The 
missionaries  are  entitled  to  the  faith 
and  prayers  of  all  Saints.  The  sun 
should  never  go  down  without  the 
Latter-day  Saints  being-  able  to  say, 
This  day  I  have  prayed  for  those  who 
are  laboring-  in  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  spread  the  principles  of  ■', eternal 
truth.  Everything  that  happens  is  con- 
strued by  the  world  in  such  a  way  as 
to  bring  the  work  of  God  into  ill  repute 
before  the  people.  Inasmuch  as  I  am 
laboring  in  the  world  where  we  have 
to  meet  these  things,  I  may  be  justi- 
fied in  alluding  to  the  fact  that  this 
awful  crime  which  was  committed  re- 
cently in  New  York  City  (you  all  know 
what  I  refer  to)  has  been  magnified  in 
all  the  great  newspapers  of  the  country 
in  an  effort  to  bring  the  horrible  deed 
home  to  the  "Mormon"  Church.  In 
flaming  headlines  they  state  that  the 
doctrines  of  the  "Mormon"  Church  are 
responsible  for  that  crime  and  the  con- 
dition of  that  unfortunate  creature  who 
now  rests  in  a  prison  cell!  I  have  won- 
dered many  times  if  the  non-Mormons 
v/ho  live  here,  who  are  reaching  out 
after  the  patronage  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  who  know  us  as  we  are, 
would  not  have  the  manhood,  the  inde- 
pendence, the  Americanism  burning  in 
their  veins  to  raise  their  voice  in  a 
protest  against  the  awful  things 
charged  against  these  good  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  religious  or- 
ganization. The  Latter-day  Saints  do 
not  have  to  rely  upon  any  man  for  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel. 
They  have  received  it,  accord- 
ing to  promise,  from  heaven. 
The  whispering  of  the  still  small  voice 
of  God  has  told  them  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet;  that  his  successors  in 
office  at  the  head  of  the  Church  have 
been  and  are  Prophets,  Seers  and  Rev- 
elators;  that  these  brethren  here  are 
Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,'  and 
that  the  Gospel  is  true.  They  have 
been  taught  to  let  their  light  so  shine 
that  it  will  not  be  hid.  But  those  who 
are  not  of  our  faith,  and  who  have  lived 
for  years  in  our  midst,  know  the  many 


falsehoods  that  have  been  circulated 
about  us.  They  know  that  meji  who 
have  resided  here,  and  who  have  been 
treated  in  a  kindly  way,  ha*ve  gone  east 
and  filled  the  minds  of  the  people  with 
the  most  damnable  lies  about  us.  And 
I  have  waited  for  many  years  to  see  if 
there  would  not  be  a  spirit  of  fairness 
bubble  up  in  the  hearts  of  the  non- 
"Mormons"  of  Utah,  and  a  protest  sent 
out  by  them  against  the  many  lies  cir- 
culated concerning  this  people. 

They  say  that  the  "Mormons"  believe 
in  blood  atonement.  "We  do  believe  in 
blood  atonement;  and  so  does  all  the 
Christian  world  believe  in  blood  atone- 
ment. We  believe  in  the  atoning  blood 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  will 
cleanse  mankind  from  all  sin,  upon 
condition  of  obedience  to  the  laws  of 
the  Gospel.  There  is  not  a  Christian 
nation  on  earth  who  does  not  believe 
or  pretend  to  believe  in  blood  atone- 
ment just  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  be- 
lieve in  it.  Oh,  but  the  "Mormons" 
believe  in  another  kind  of  blood  atone- 
ment! it  is  said.  Well,  we  do,  in  the 
same  way  that  this  nation  believes  in  it, 
and  in  no  other  way — in  the  way  that 
God  revealed  it  to  the  ancients,  that 
if  man  spilt  man's  blood,  by  man  should 
his  blood  be  spilt.  There  is  not  a  state 
in  this  glorious  Union  of  ours  that  does 
not  believe  in  that  kind  of  blood  atone- 
ment. So  far  as  putting  a  murderer  to 
death  is  concerned,  we  believe  that  if 
the  right  punishment  were  inflicted  up- 
on the  individual  it  would  not  be  by 
strangling  him  to  death  or  by  placing 
him  in  an  electric  chair,  but  it  would  be 
an  execution  whereby  his  blood  would 
be  shed.  Thank  God,  In  this  state  there 
were  enough  in  the  Constitutional  Con- 
vention who  believed  in  that  principle 
to  wisely  place  in  that  constitution  a 
clause  which  provided  that  in  dealing 
out  the  death  penalty  the  murderer 
should  have  a  choice  between  bein& 
shot  and  being  hung;  and  if  there  were 
a  particle  of  belief  in  the  law  of  God  in 
the  heart  of  the  convicted  murderer  the 
law  would  give  him  the  chance  to 
choose  a  death  whereby  his  blood  could 
be  spilt  by  man  legally,  seeing  that  he 
had  spilt  the  blood  of  his  fellow  man. 
But  this  being  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  we  believe  in  the  doctrines  laid 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


down  by  Him,  and  therefore  we  believe 
in  rendering-  unto  Csesar  that  which  be- 
longs to  CEesar,  and  unto  God  that 
which  belongs  to  Him. 

Last  Tuesday  evening's  Deseret  News 
contained  an  article  that  had  been  pub- 
lished in  1889.  It  was  signed  by  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church,  by  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  and  also  by  Daniel 
H.  Wells  and  John  W.  Young,  who 
were  then  acting  as  counselors  to  the 
Apostles.  You  will  pardon  me  if  I  read 
that  article.  It  is  a  declaration  made 
by  the  leaders  of  the  Church  upon  the 
subject  I  am  speaking  of. 

"That  this  Church  views  the  shedding 
of  human  blood  with  the  utmost  abhor- 
rence. That  we  regard  the  killing  of  a 
human  being,  except  in  conformity  with 
the  civil  law,  as  a  capital  crime  which 
should  be  punished  by  shedding  the 
blood  of  the  criminal  after  a  public  trial 
before  a  legally  constituted  court  of  the 
land. 

"Notwithstanding  all  the  stories  told 
about  the  killing  of  apostates,  no  case 
of  this  kind  has  ever  occurred,  and  of 
course  has  never  been  established 
against  the.  Church  we  represent.  Hun- 
dreds cf  seceders  from  the  Church  have 
continuously  resided  and  now  live  in 
this  territory,  many  of  whom  have 
amassed  considerable  wealth,  though 
bitterly  opposed  to  the  Mormon  faith 
and  people.  Even  those  who  made  it 
their  business  to  fabricate  the  vilest 
falsehoods,  and  to  render  them  plausi- 
ble by  culling  isolated  passages  from  old 
sermons  without  the  explanatory  con- 
text, and  have  suffered  no  opportunity 
to  escape  them  of  villifying  and  black- 
ening the  characters  of  the  peop.e,  have 
remained  among  those  whom  they  have 
thus  persistently  calumniated  until  the 
present  day,  without  receiving-  the 
slightest  personal  injury. 

"We  denounce  as  entirely  untrue  the 
allegation  which  has  been  made,  that 
our  Church  favors  or  believes  in  the 
killing  of  persons  who  leave  the  Chuich 
or  apostatize  from  its  doctrines.  We 
would  view  a  punishment  of  this  char- 
acter for  such  an  act  with  the  utmost 
horror;  it  is  abhorrent  to  us  and  is  in 
direct  opposition  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  our  creed. 

"The  revelations  of  God  to  this 
Church  make  death  the  penalty  of  cay., 
tal  crime,  and  require  that  offenders 
against  life  and  property  shall  be  de- 
livered up  and  tried  by  the  laws  of  the 
land. 

"We  declare  that  no  Bishop's  or  other 
court  in  this  Church  claims  or  exercies 
civil  or  judicial  functions,  or  the  right 
to  supersede,  annul  or  modify  a  judg- 
ment of  any  civil  court.    Such  courts, 


while  established  to  regulate  Christian 
conduct,  are  purely  ecclesiastical,  and 
their  punitive  powers  go  no  further 
than  the  suspension  or  excommunica- 
tion of  members  from  Church  fellow- 
ship." 

This  same  thing  has  been  proclaimed 
many  times  by  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  since  its  organization;  but  not- 
withstanding this,  an  opportunity  is 
never  let  pass  by  the  people  of  the 
world,  and  especially  the  leaders  of 
Christian  churches,  to  try  and  bring 
this  old  charge  up  and  frighten  the 
people  from  hearing  the  Elders  when 
they  go  forth  to  preach  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Not  over  two  weeks  ago 
I  was  asked  by  a  man  who  was  sup- 
posed to  be  intelligent,  a  minister  of 
one  of  the  churches,  "Is  it  not  true,  if 
anyone  joins  your  Church  and  then 
leaves  it,  that  the  orders  of  the  leaders 
of  the  Church  are  that  you  must  kill 
that  man  and  shed  his  blood?"  I  asked 
him  where  he  got  that  idea;  and  he 
replied,  "from  publications  and  writ- 
ings of  ministers  and  others  who  have 
been  in  your  midst."  Oh!  you  men 
who  do  not  believe  in  the  "Mormon" 
Church,  and  who  have  lived  here  for 
years  unmolested,  it  is  your  duty  to 
fling  these  lies  back  into  the  teeth  of 
the  world.  It  is  your  duty  to  say  to 
the  people  of  the  world  that  men  who 
have  gone  from  here  and  lied  are  not 
worthy  of  consideration.  One  minister 
in  the  east,  who  used  to  live  in  Brigham 
City,  is  telling  stories  about  how  not 
over  six  years  ago  women  would  walk 
from  Salt  Lake  City  on  the  railroad 
track  to  Brigham  City,  seeking  pro- 
tection from  him  to  keep  their  hus- 
bands from  shedding  their  blood,  under 
the  doctrine  of  blood  atonement.  Well, 
my  non-"Mormon"  friends  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  that  is  placing  your  protective 
powers  at  a  minimum,  is  it  not?  Shame 
on  you,  to  make  a  woman  walk  from 
Salt  Lake  City  to  Brigham  City— that 
stronghold  of  anti-"Mormonism"  (?) — 
to  ask  "for  protection!  Yet  that  man 
pretends  to  be  a  minister  of  the  Gos- 
pel. Perhaps  in  his  lifetime  he  has  op- 
ened the  Bible;  but  he  has  forgotten 
that  he  read  there  the  words  of  God 
which  say,  "Thou  shalt  not  lie."  "Thou 
shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against 


ELDER  BEN  E  RICH. 


9 


thy  neighbor."  "Why.  right  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  a  few  years  ago,  one  of  these  min- 
isters murdered  two  girls,  cut  their  bod- 
ies up  and  burned  them  in  the  church 
furnace.  He  took  their  effects,  and 
they  were  found  in  a  pawnshop  in 
Butte.  Have  the  "Mormon'  'people  ever 
charged  that  that  was  due  to  the 
teachings  of  the  doctrine  of  that 
church?  Have  we  ever  borne  false  wit- 
ness against  them  in  this  respect? 
Has  the  world  ever  laid  that  horrible 
crime  to  the  church  •with  which  that 
minister  was  connected?  How  different 
it  would  have  been  if  that  had  been 
one  of  these  "Mormon"  presidents  of 
stakes,  or  a  "Mormon"  Bishop!  What 
headlines  would  have  been  printed  in 
the  papers,  giving  an  account  of  the 
affair;  and  how  it  would  have  been 
published  to  the  world  that  the  doc- 
trines of  the  "Mormon"  Church  were 
responsible  for  the  murder  of  these  two 
girls!  But  it  was  one  of  these  good 
Christian  churches  here;  and  if  that 
man  had  followed  the  doctrines  of  the 
church  he  pretended  to  preside  over 
he  never  would  have  committed  that 
murder.  The  "Mormon"  people  know 
that,  and  are  willing  to  bear  witness  to 
it.  "Why  do  not  some  members  of  these 
other  churches  say  that  if  this  young 
man  in  New  York  had  been  following 
the  doctrines  of  the  "Mormon"  Church, 
he  probably  would  have  been  in  New 
York  standing  upon  the  street  corners 
bearing  testimony  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  instead  of  be- 
ing locked  up  in  a  prison  cell.  A  few 
yearg  ago,  in  San  Francisco, 
you  remember,  two  girls  were 
murdered  in  a  church  there,  theii 
nude  bodies  being  found  in  the  tower 
of  the  church;  and  for  quite  a  whiie 
the  minister  of  that  church  was  ac- 
cused in  the  public  press  of  being  im- 
plicated in  the  awful  crime.  But  there 
was  no  attempt  made  in  the  press 
throughout  the  United  States  to  show 
that  the  teachings  of  that  church  were 
responsible.  They  declared  that  it  was 
the  depraved  condition  of  the  criminal, 
and  that  all  churches  had  good  and 
"bad.  How  different  it  would  have 
been  if  that  had  hapened  in  this  Tab- 
ernacle, and  the  bodies  of  t*wo  mur- 
dered  girls  had  been  found  secreted 


around  this  organ!  The  world  would 
have  known  it  in  twenjty-four  hours, 
and  it  would  have  been  charged  to  the 
doctrines  of  the  "Mormon"  Church. 
The  Cincinnati  Enquirer  of  Sept.  7— 
about  ten  days  before  this  awful  thing 
happened  in  New  York— gave  an  ac- 
count of  a  minister  belonging  to  the 
Baptist  church.  He  had  cut  the  throat 
of  his  wife,  and  was  found  with  a  razor 
in  one  hand  and  the  Bible  in  the  othei 
hand.  He  was  reading  extracts  from 
the  Bible  on  blood  atonement,  and  he 
was  crying  out  that  without  the  shed- 
ding of  blood  there  is  no  forgiveness; 
and  he  endeavored  to  justify  his  terri- 
ble crime  by  what  he  found  in  the 
Bible.  The  paper  went  on  to  say  that 
he  was  very  high  in  Baptist  church 
councils,  and  that  he  had  occupied 
some  of  the  most  prominent  pulpits  of 
the  Baptist  church  in  the  state.  But 
did  they  charge  the  deed  up  to  the  Bap- 
tist church?  No!  How  different  it 
would  have  been  if  a  "Mormon"  Apos- 
tle had  done  such  a  thing!  They 
would  not  have  said  the  poor  man  had 
gone  crazy;  but  they  would  have  said 
that  he  was  following  the  instructions, 
given  him  by  the  authorities  of  the 
"Mormon"  Church. 

I  tell  you  they  circulate  some  most 
infamous  lies  about  this  people,  and  if 
they  do  not  repent  they  will  be 
damned,  and  they  will  stay  in  that 
condition  until  the  Lord  in  His  mercy 
permits  some  "Mormon"  Elder  to  go 
and  help  them  out  of  it.  I  pray  that 
their  eyes  may  be  opened,  and  that 
they  may  repent;  and  if  they  do  not 
repent,  I  pray  God  in  His  mercy  to 
take  them  away  from  the  earth,  to 
where  they  cannot  do  any  more  lying. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  can  see 
that  I  am  a  little  warm;  but  if  you 
will  go  out  in  the  missionary  field  and 
meet  these  things  as  I  have  met  them,- 
and  as  every  Elder  meets  them,  you 
will  at  least  be  indignant  when  you 
know  how  the  leaders  of  church  or- 
ganizations and  the  newspapers 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
this  land  are  lying  about  your  faith.  I 
have  been  born  and  raised  in  this 
Church.  I  received  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  from  God,  not  from  my  father 
But  my  father  and  my  mother  taught 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


me  from  infancy  that  in  the  sight  of 
God  murder  is  the  most  awful  crime 
man  can  commit,  and  next  to  that  is 
adultery.  The  way  was  pointed  out  by 
them  whereby  I  could  receive  a  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel  for  myself,  and  I 
have  listened  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
still  small  voice,  which  has  given  me 
a  testimony,  so  that  I  do  know,  as  I 
know  that  the  sun  shines,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  do 
know  that  his  successors  were  proph- 
ets of  God,  and  I  do  know  that  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  is  the  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator  of  God  upon  the 
earth  today,  and  that  these  men  here 
are  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
I  never  received  this  testimony  from 
my  parents;  I  received  it  from  God; 
and  I  know  that  when  I  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  the  Almighty  and 
the  books  are  opened,  this  testimony 
will  be  recorded  there  for  or  against 
me.  So  that  I  bear  my  testimony  in- 
telligently, knowing  that  I  have  to 
meet  it,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  I  say  I  know  that  this  is  the 
Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  that  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth  in  the  age 
in  which  we  live,  and  that  it  is  now 
being  preached  as  a  witness  unto  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  that  the  end 
may  come.  In  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  A.  McRAE, 

(President  of   the   Colorado  Mission). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  say 
that  I  rejoice  this  morning  in  having 
the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  you  in 
conference.  I  look  forward  with  fond 
anticipation  to  the  time  when  I  can 
meet  here  and  hear  the  words  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord.  While  I  am  un. 
der  the  sound  of  their  voices  and  hear 
the  inspired  words  that  come  from 
them,  I  feel  that  I  will  never  do  any- 
thing wrong  as  long  as  I  live.  I  have 
heard  Elders  in  the  mission  field,  while 
they  have  been  assembled  in  confer- 
ence, say,  "I  feel  now  that  I  could  go 
out  and  spend  my  whole  life  in  preach- 
ing the  Gospel."  But  sometimes,  after 
leaving  these  places  of  worship,  we  for- 
get what  we  have  heard,  and  we  drift 
back  again.    Hence  it  is  necessary  for 


us  to  be  constantly  reminded  of  our 
duty.  Our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  while  on  earth,  realized  the 
necessity  of  preaching  the  Gospel  unto 
His  people;  for  He  said  unto  His  Apos- 
tles, "Feed  my  sheep."  He  realized  that 
the  Saints  should  be  preached  to,  and 
tauglit,  and  reminded  of  their  duties 
day  by  day.  It  is  essential  that  we. 
pray  constantly,  that  we  be  not  led  in- 
to temptation,  nor  do  that  which  will 
grieve  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  feel  well  in  the  Gospel.  I  know  it  i» 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  love 
to  hear  the  servants  of  the  Lord  ad- 
dress us  from  time  to  time.  I  love  to 
hear  the  voices  of  those  who  love  the 
Gospel.  I  have  been  deiighted  this 
morning  in  hearing  the  voices  of  my 
brethren  who  have  spoken  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel.  I  have  been 
made  glad  to  hear  our  Prophet  say 
that  Zion  is  prospering  and  growing  in 
the  land.  I  can  realize  this  myself.  I 
can  also  realize  the  influence  which  tht 
good  people  of  Zion  have  among  the 
people  of  the  world.  As  has  been  said 
many  times,  I  know  that  God  and  one 
righteous  man  is  a  majority;  and  I 
know  that  if  we  will  live  according  to 
the  light  which  we  receive  from  tim<» 
to  time  through  the  servants  of  the» 
Lord,  the  Elders  who  are  in  the  mis- 
sion field  preaching  the  Gospel  will 
have  an  easier  time. 

The  mission  over  which  I  have  the 
privilege  of  presiding  is  an  extensive 
one,  reaching  from  Canada  on  the 
north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  from  the 
Missouri  river  on  the  east  to  Califor- 
nia on  the  west,  and  including  fivt» 
states  and  two  territories.  We  haves 
laboring  in  that  mission  about  46  El- 
ders. From  the  first  of  January  last 
the  Elders  have  visited  about  60,000 
houses.  In  making  these  visits  I  sup- 
pose it  would  be  a  fair  estimate  to 
say  that  they  have  preached  the  Gospel 
to  150,000.  They  have  distributed 
about  40,000  tracts  bearing  upon  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  and  telling  the 
people  how  they  travel  and  how  they 
preach  the  Gospel  without  purse  and 
scrip.  They  have  been  sent  out  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the  mis- 
sion of  Joseph  Smith  the  Pruphet.  Dur- 
ing that  time  there  have  been  distrib- 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


11 


uted  several  hundred  hooks.  Many 
thousands  of  people  have  heard  the 
proclamation  of  the  Gospel,  on  the 
street  corner  and  in  the  various  halls 
in  which  we  have  held  services;  and 
though  the  baptisms  have  been  very 
few  indeed  compared  to  the  great  num- 
ber who  have  been  visited,  I  feel  that 
much  good  has  been  done.  The  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  has  been  with  the  Elders,  and 
I  feel  that  the  leaven  is  beginning  to 
work  among  the  people. 

A  few  weeks  ago  a  lady  physician 
came  to  our  office,  and  she  said,  "Mr. 
McRae,  I  want  to  talk  to  you  for  a 
short  time  on  your  method  of  con- 
trolling your  young  people.  I  realize 
that  you  have  more  control  over  your 
rising  generation  than  any  people  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth.  Our  young  peo- 
ple are  slipping  away  from  us  gradual- 
ly, and  falling  into  vice,  and  we  can- 
not control  them.  How  do  you  man- 
age?" I  told  her  how  we  managed,  and 
detailed  to  her  the  work  done  in  the 
Mutual  Improvement  associations,  the 
Primary  associations,  the  Sunday 
schools  and  other  institutions  I  told 
her  about  our  Church  schools,  about 
our  ward  teachers  visiting  the  people, 
and  about  the  special  missionaries  that 
are  called  in  the  various  wards  and 
stakes  to  visit  the  young  people  and 
exhort  them  to  diligence.  She  said, 
"Will  you  be  kind  enough  to  have  an 
interview  with  one  of  our  ministers 
and  tell  him  how  he  can  work  along 
these  lines.'  "  I  remarked  to  her  that 
I  would  willingly  do  so,  but  that  I  was 
afraid  he  could  not  live  to  it  or  teach 
it  to  his  congregation.  Why?  she 
asked.  My  answer  was,  "He  requires 
a  salary  to  preach  the  Gospel.  When- 
ever he  arises  to  preach  to  his  congre- 
gation and  says  that  which  they  do  not 
like,  they  say  that  he  will  have  to  stop 
preaching  that  way  or  they  will  stop 
his  salary."  "Now,"  said  I,  "when  I 
preach  to  the  people,  I  do  not  care 
whose  toes  I  tread  on;  I  do  not  carts 
who  I  strike;  I  teach  the  truth,  and 
no  matter  where  it  hits  they  cannot 
come  to  me  and  say,  'We'll  stop  your 
salary  because  I  haven't  any  to  stop. 
That  is  the  difference  between  your 
minister  and  me."  That  is  one  great 
difference    between    the    ministers  of 


the  world,  who  are  professing  to 
preach  the  Gospel  unto  the  people,  and 
the  Elders  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 
would  sooner  be  a  humble  Elder 
preaching  the  Gospel  unto  the  people, 
bearing  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  of  God,  than  to  be  the  greatest 
"divine"  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us 
during  this  conference,  and  that  He 
will  inspire  those  who  speak  unto  us, 
that  we  may  be  fed  with  the  bread  of 
life,  that  when  we  go  from  here  wt 
►will  form  a  resolution  in  our  minds 
that  we  and  our  families  will  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments.  May 
the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end,  is  my 
prayer.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Apostates  sacrifice  the  most-  -Professed  ministers 
of  Jesus  guilty  of  misrepresentation — God 
will  exeoute  justice;  the  Saints'  mission  Is 
peace. 

I  have  greatly  rejoiced  this  morning, 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimony 
of  those  who  have  spoken  and  in  hear- 
ing a  report  of  the  condition  of  somo 
of  The  missionary  fields.  It  seems  from 
the  reports  of  the  brethren  that  not  a 
great  number  have  given  heed  to  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
by  His  servants  who  are  endeavoring  to 
save  them;  yet  we  are  told  that  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  have  been  preached 
tu,  and  thus  warned  of  the  coming 
judgments  of  God.  For  my  own  part, 
I  would  rather  retain  faithful  and  firm 
ten  members  of  the  Church  who  are  al- 
ready converted  than  convert  one  hun- 
dred out  in  the  world. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  that  in 
your  hearts  is  burning  that  same  testi- 
mony which  has  been  borne  by  our 
brethren  here  today,  and  that  it  is  su 
firmly  established  there  that  it  will  bfe 
impossible  for  you  to  ever  fall  from 
the  Church.  To  apostatize  from  the 
Church  would  be  your  own  loss.  As 
has  been  said,  no  physical  injury  or 
harm  of  any  other  kind  would  come  to 
you  from  the  Church  itself;  but  in 
leaving  the  faith  which  you  have  es- 
poused you  would  only  cut  yourselves 
off  from  the  fellowship  of  good  man 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  women,  and,  what  is  more,  from 
the  fellowship  of  God  our  Eternal  Fath- 
er. We  often  hear  it  said  that  sacri- 
fice brings  forth  the  blessings  of 
heaven,  and  that  we  should  make  sac- 
rifices for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
AH  this  may  be  true,  but  from  my 
view-point  the  man  who  cuts  himsel* 
off  from  the  Church  and  denies  himself 
full  fellowship  therein  is  the  one  who 
makes  the  greater  sacrifice;  for  by  so 
doing  he  sacrifices  the  fellowship  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  welcomes  dark- 
ness rather  than  light;  in  fact,  there 
is  no  good  thing  that  he  does  not  sac- 
lifice. 

With  my  brethren  who  have  spoken, 
I  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  is  true,  i 
Know  that  every  principle  that  has  ever 
bten  taught  by  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
till  now,  is  true;  and  everyone  of  them 
tends  to  the  development  of  mankind, 
to  lift  them  up  and  make  them  better. 
There  is  no  principle  that  is  degrading 
in  the  least.  We  cannot  compromise 
with  the  world;  we  cannot  meet  them 
h'tlf  way;  but  we  are  in  duty  bound 
to  go  all  the  way  for  the  purpose  of 
warning  them  and  preaching  the  Gospel 
as  we  have  received  it.  And  unless 
those  who  hear  the  Gospel  accept  every 
ptinciple  of  it  they  cannot  become 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  There 
is  no  half  way  business  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  You  have  either  to  ac- 
cept every  principle  that  has  been 
taught  by  God  Almighty  or  you  cannot 
h^  baptized  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  have  no  right  to  do  other- 
wise. Jesus  Christ  taught  the  people 
in  His  day  that  all  those  who  came  to 
H?m  must  be  born  again;  and  He  sent 
His  Apostles  forth  to  preach  the  Gospel 
to  every  creature,  and  he  that  believed 
and  was  baptized,  He  said  should  be 
saved,  but  he  that  believed  not  shouM 
be  damned.  That  is  the  only  thing  we 
can  do. 

Now,  we  have  charity  for  the  world, 
but  I  glory  in  the  testimony  of  Brother 
Ben  E.  Rich.  I  have  a  sort  of  indig- 
nant strain  in  my  own  blood  when  I 
hear  these  falsehoods  spoken  against 
us  by  men  professing  to  be  ministers  of 
Jesus  Christ.    An  appeal  was  made  to 


the  Gentiles  who  live  in  our  midst,  but 
I  do  not  expect  to  see  any  number  of 
thorn,  however  long  they  have  lived  in 
our  midst,  ever  stand  up  and  be  men 
enough  to  deny  to  the  world  the  lies 
that  are  told  about  us.  I  do  expect, 
though,  that  if  they  go  away  from  Salt 
Lake  City  for  a  period  they  will  enter 
into  the  spirit  of  their  brothers  and 
lie  with  them.  That  is  the  only  thing 
I  expect  from  them,  especially  from 
those  who  wear  the  long  coats  and  are 
professed  ministers  of  the  Gospel.  We 
might  name  many  of  them  to  you,  but 
you  know  them  as  well  as  I  do. 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  from  the  be- 
ginning until  now,  have  suffered  from 
the  misrepresentations  of  this  class  of 
men,  and  I  expect  that  we  will  suffer 
until  Christ  comes  to  reign  from  just 
such  men.  The  hand  of  Satan  is  raised 
against  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  he  finds  these 
professed  ministers  of  the  Gospel  ready 
tools  through  which  to  work;  and  just 
so  long  as  these  conditions  exist  do  I 
expect  that  these  men  will  be  employed 
in  his  service.  Were  not  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  murdered 
in  cold  blood  by  a  mob  led  on  by  men 
who  claimed  to  be  ministers  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  Did  not  they, 
in  their  piety,  as  the  Jews  of  old,  cry 
out,  Away  with  this  fellow?  They  said, 
is  he  not  a  blasphemer?  Is  he  net 
teaching  false  doctrine?  Is  he  not 
leading  away  our  sons  and  daughters-: 
from  the  doctrines  and  traditions  of 
their  fathers?  Why,  if  we  let  this  man 
go  on  he  will  turn  the  whole  world  up- 
side down.  Therefore,  away  with  him, 
murder  him;  anything  to  get  him  out  of 
the  way!  And  did  they  not  do  it?  Did 
they  not  partake  of  the  same  spirit 
that  those  who  crucified  the  Son  of 
God  had?  And  did  they  not  prosecute 
their  devilish  work  even  to  a  culmina- 
tion? Certainly  they  did.  I  feel  warm, 
too,  at  these  things;  for  my  uncle  and 
rny  own  grandfather  were  the  men  who 
were  thus  slain,  and  in  my  veins  flows 
the  same  blood  that  was  shed  then  on 
the  soil  of  Illinois,  and  that  still  cries 
to  God  for  vengeance.  But  while  mv 
prayers  shall  ever  ascend  to  God  for 
vengeance  upon  those  who  have  slain 
the  prophets,  anciently  and  today,  yet 


ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 


13 


were  those  men  brought  before  me  and 
their  guilt  established  beyond  the  pos- 
sibility of  a  doubt,  I  would  say,  Let 
them  go  and  let  God  execute  His  own 
justice;  and  I  would  pray,  O  God,  bo 
merciful  to  them  in  the  justice  which 
Thou  dost  execute,  because  they  knew 
not  what  they  did.  If  they  did  know, 
then  oh,  how  worthy  are  they  of  the 
most  dire  punishment  that  God  can 
give  to  the  murderer! 

My  voice  shall  ever  be  raised  in  de  • 
fense  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints;  and  it  shall 
e^er  be  raised  against  those  who  de- 
nounce us  and  lie  about  us.  May  God 
bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  May 
ycu  get  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  for 
yourselves,  so  that,  whatever  people 
imy  say  or  do,  we  will  be  able  to  en- 
dure all  things,  even  to  the  very  end, 
and  then  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Then  we  will  turn  our  attention, 
as  we  are  now  doing,  to  the  salvation 
of  those  who  have  spoken  against  VL3. 
Our  mission  is  a  mission  of  peace,  of 
salvation  and  of  goodwill  to  every  man 
"who  will  repent  of  his  sins  and  turn 
unto  God.  To  every  one  who  will  cease 
to  do  evil,  who  will  cease  to  backbite, 
to  lie  and  to  bear  false  witness,  will 
we  give  the  hand  of  fellowship,  and 
welcome  him,  if  he  repent  truly,  into 
the  Church  of  Christ.  But,  so  far  as  I 
am  concerned,  I  hope  I  will  be  able  to 
establish  myself  so  firmly  in  the  Church 
that  though  the  whole  world  rise 
against  us,  and  though  it  cost  my  life 
with  the  lives  of  my  brethren,  I  will 
remain  faithful  and  firm  to  the  testi- 
mony which  God  has  given  me.  May  the 
spirit  of  testimony  rest  upon  us  ail, 
any  may  we  indeed  live  near  unto  God 
our  Eternal  Father,  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments, in  spite  of  all  that  may  be 
s.i  id  or  done,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Thomas  E.  Bas- 
sett,  president  of  Fremont  Stake. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion. 


No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam, 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 

each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour    of  redemption 

will  come. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William 
Budge,  president  of  Bear  Lake  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor 
fear: 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way. 


ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 

(■President  of  Southwestern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

I  desire  with  all  my  heart,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  led  by 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
during  the  time  that  I  shall  speak  to 
you  this  afternoon.  There  is  one  lesson, 
at  least,  that  I  have  learned  during  my 
brief  life,  and  it  is  this:  no  man  can 
reach  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  in  speaking  upon  the 
principles  of  eternal  life,  save  he  is  led 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
So  important  has  our  Father  thought 
it  to  be  that  His  servants  should  be 
led  by  that  Spirit,  that  He  has  given 
commandment  that  they  should  not  at- 
tempt to  teach  unless  they  knew  they 
were  led  by  His  Holy  Spirit. 

While  the  brethren  have  been  speak- 
ing today  I  have  thought  a  little  about 
the  opening  up  of  this  great  work  that 
you  and  I  are  engaged  in,  and  of  some 
questions  that  are  presented  to  us  when 
we  go  among  the  nations  of  the  earth 
and  bear  witness  unto  our  fellows  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  and 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  When  we  bear 
witness  of  this  great  truth  revealed  in 
these  latter  days  we  are  frequently 
asked,  "Why  do  you  so  often  bear  wit- 
ness that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet 
of  God?  Do  you  believe  that  he  takes 
the  place  of  Jesus,  the  Sa_vior?"  If  we 
should  answer  that  question  dogmati- 
cally, we  would  say  that  we  bear  wit- 
ness to  that  great  fact  because  it  is 
true;  but  that,  I  take  it,  is  not  suf- 
ficient. Whenever  our  Father  in  heav- 
en has  had  a  dispensation  of  the  Gos- 
pel upon  this  earth,  He  has  sent  to 
the  earth  choice  spirits,  who  had  been 
foreordained  in  the  heavens  because  of 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


their  pre-existent  faithfulness,  through 
whom  He  could  reveal  His  will,  and 
upon  whom  He  could  confer  the  keys  of 
power  and  authority  to  minister  His 
word  among  His  children  upon  the 
earth.  The  time  came  when  the  prom- 
ises of  our  Father  were  going  to  be  ful- 
filled pertaining  to  His  work  in  the  last 
days.  Again  He  sent  to  earth  one  of 
those  choice  spirits,  who,  when  he  came 
here,  was  given  the  name  of  Joseph 
Smith.  Through  him  Father  in  heaven 
revealed  His  will  again  to  His  children, 
and  to  him  He  gave  authority.  Through 
that  great  man  of  God  has  been  op- 
ened up  the  work  of  salvation  for  the 
living  and  redemption  for  the  dead  in 
this  the  greatest  of  all  dispensations 
that  have  been  given  to  man.  I  hold 
as  a  principle  in  missionary  work  that 
the  first  fact  to  be  established  before 
the  people  is  the  great  truth  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  is  the  man  whom  Father 
in  heaven  has  raised  up  for  this  special 
purpose;  for  if  they  will  not  accept  of 
him  they  will  not  accept  the  revela- 
tions of  God  given  through  him.  It  is 
because  we  believe  this  with  all  our 
hearts  that  in  the  mission  over  which 
your  humble  servant  has  been  called  to 
preside  the  Elders  hold  before  the  peo- 
ple first  and  foremost^  the  great  truth 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  Prophet 
of  God. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  stood,  with  Presi- 
dent Andrew  Kimbail,  in  the  room  in 
Carthage,  Illinois,  where  our  beloved 
Prophet  and  Patriarch  laid  down  their 
lives  and  sealed  their  ieouiiwny  witu 
their  blood.  Years  before  that  time  I 
made  a  vow  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
that  if  He  would  give  unto  me  His 
Holy  Spirit,  and  courage  and  intelli- 
gence sufficient,  I  would  devote  my  life 
to  bearing  witness  to  the  world  that 
He  had  raised  up  that  man  of  God  to 
establish  His  latter-day  work.  When  I 
stood  in  that  room  and  passed  to  the 
window  out  of  which  that  man  of  God 
threw  his  body  in  order  to  save  hia 
brethren  who  were  yet  alive,  I  renewed 
that  vow,  with  tears  streaming  down 
my  face;  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  this 
day,  especially  to  the  young  brethren 
and  sisters  in  Zion,  that  again  I  do 
renew  that  vow,  and  desire  with  all 
my  heart  that  I  may  ever  be  led  by  that 


Spirit  of  God  to  lift  up  my  voice  and 
bear  witness  that  that  great  man  who 
there  gave  his  life  is  a  Prophet  of  God, 
and  that  his  testimony,  sealed  by  his 
blood,  lives  today  and  will  live  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

In  the  Southwestern  States  Mission 
this  fact  is  second  only  to  the  great 
truth  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  In  that 
mission  we  are  doing  the  work  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  as  He  gives  us  ability 
to  do  it.  "We  have  about  120  Elders  la- 
boring there,  and  have  had  two  of  the 
beautiful,  intelligent  daughters  of  Zion, 
but  one  has  recently  returned  from 
filling  a  faithful  mission  and  is  now  in 
this  building;  the  other  is  still  there, 
doing  good,  efficient  work.  "We  hope  to 
have  others  of  the  daughters  of  Zion 
sent  to  us  to  assist  in  the  work.  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  your  sons  who  are  there 
are  full  of  courage  and  zeal.  Your 
daughters  who  have  been  and  are  there 
are  filled  with  the  same  spirit  of  devo- 
tion and  courage.  I  bear  witness  this 
day,  with  regard  to  the  work  of  our 
young  sisters,  that  when  they  stand 
before  the  people  of  the  world  and  bear 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  and 
that  Father  has  again  spoken  from 
the  heavens,  it  goes  to  the  hearts  of 
the  people,  and  they  cannot  resist  the 
humble  testimony  of  our  beloved  sis- 
ters. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  with  re- 
gard to  writing  to  your  sons.  Never  al- 
low one  line  of  discouragement  to  go 
from  you  to  them.  Never  put  a  thought 
in  their  minds  that  they  should  return 
home  until  the  men  whom  God  has 
chosen  to  direct  His  work  are  moved 
upon  by  the  Spirit  of  God  to  release 
them  from  their  missionary  labors.  Why 
do  I  say  this?  Because  we  have  had 
occasion  sometimes  to  know  that  the 
work  of  the  Lord  has  suffered  by  rea- 
son of  our  young  men  being  taken  from 
the  field  before  they  ought  to  retu  %\, 
and  they  themselves  have  suffered  most 
in  consequence  of  it.  I  know  the  pres- 
idents of  missions  are  careful  of  the 
young  men.  They  are  considerate  of 
your  sons.  They  love  them  as  they  love 
their  owns  sons.  They  would  lay  down 
their  lives  for  your  boys,  and  they  are 
not  going  to  permit  them  to  do  that 


ELDER    ASAHEL  H.  WOODRUFF. 


15 


which  would  be  for  their  detriment,  if 
they  can  help  it. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  mission 
is  progressing-  reasonably  well.  Our  El- 
ders are  treated  well  by  the  people.  It 
is  a  rare  exception  where  they  meet 
mob  violence.    We  have  only  had  one 
case  of  extreme  mob  violence  in  about 
three  years,  and  that  was  in  a  part  of  a 
state  that  has  always  exhibited  a  rank 
spirit  towards  the  work  of  God;  but 
even  in  that  state  the  governor  is  a 
friend  to  the  people  of  the  Lord,  as  are 
some  of  the  judges.   I  have  talked  with 
leading  men  in  that  state,  and  they 
have  said  to  me,  "Mr.  Duffin,  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  the  better  element  in 
this  state,  the  men  of  thought  and  prog- 
ress, are  not  bitterly  opposed  to  your 
people,  but  are  friendly  towards  you." 
That  is  the  spirit  which  prevails  gen- 
erally among  the  intelligent  and  think- 
ing classes  of  the  people  throughout  the 
Southwestern  States  Mission.   There  is 
one  exception  to  this  rule,  and  that  is 
among  those  who  pretend  to  be  follow- 
ers of  the  meek  and  lowly  Nazarene. 
From  that  class  of  people  come  the  bit- 
terest statements  and  opposition  that 
we  have  to  meet.   A  few  weeks  ago  we 
held  a  conference  of  the  Missouri  El- 
ders in  Kansas  City.   The  leading  news- 
papers there  treated  us  nicely,  and  gave 
fair  accounts  of  the  conference.  They 
sent  their  reporters  to  our  meetings, 
and  they  advertised  us  free  of  charge 
before   the   conference     began.  This 
stirred  up  the  anger  of  some  of  these 
men  who  pretend  to  be  followers  of  the 
meek  and  lowly  Nazarene   and  they 
gave  us  a  little  more  advertising  in 
their  Sunday  night  sermons.    As  soon 
as  the  reporters  got  those  sermons 
they  came  right  to  our  office  and  want- 
ed to  know    whether     the  ministers' 
statements  were  true  or  not.  They 
said  they  wanted  to  treat  us  fairly  and 
get  our  side  of  the  question,  and  they 
reported  pretty  fairly  what  we  said  in 
reply  to  the  attack  of  those  men  who 
are  not  following  the  Savior,  though 
they  pretend  to  be.  President  Rich  said 
he  sometimes  got    warm    in  talking 
about  these  men  and  thinking  how  they 
treated  our  young  men  who  are  full  of 
faith  and  zeal  and  who  are  doing  a 
work  of  unselfishness    among  man- 
kind. I  do  not  suppose  there  is  a  presi- 


dent of  a  mission  anywhere  but  gets 
angry  sometimes  at  this,  and  righteous- 
ly, too. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  reported  last 
spring  that  we  had  issued  a  ten  thou- 
sand edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in 
that  mission.  Since  last  May  we  have 
distributed  nearly  seven  thousand  cop- 
ies of  that  sacred  book,  to  various  mis- 
sions and  throughout  the  country;  and 
it  is  now  going  out  by  the  thousands 
where  formerly  it  was  distributed  by 
the  hundreds.  It  is  down  to  a  price 
that  can  be  reached  by  the  people.  Since 
I  have  been  a  student  of  this  great  lat- 
ter-day work  I  have  always  held  that 
if  we  must  speculate  out  of  any  books, 
it  should  not  be  out  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon;  for  when  the  angel  delivered 
the  plates  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
he  warned  him  against  using  them  for 
the  purpose  of  getting  gain.  I  believe 
that  same  principle  should  obtain  in 
the  publishing  and  distribution  of  the 
book.  We  have  acted  upon  that  prin- 
ciple in  contributing  of  our  means  in 
this  direction.  Your  sons  have  given 
of  their  means  to  put  this  book  at  such 
a  price  that  the  people  could  reach  it. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  in  the 
heart  of  everyone  who  attends  this  con- 
ference, and  in  the  heart  of  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  and  that  it  may  go 
forth  among  the  nations  of  the  earth 
and  enter  into  the  hearts  of  the  people 
and  open  them  to  the  reception  of  the 
eternal  truths  of  heaven  that  have  been 
revealed  in  this  dispensation.  I  want 
to  bear  you  my  witness  this  day  that  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  know  that  Brigham  Young  is  a 
Prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  these  tes- 
timonies are  being  borne  among  the  na- 
tions by  our  young  men.  I  know  that 
our  beloved  brother  who  sits  on  this 
stand  today— Joseph    F.    Smith— is  a 

true  and  a  living  Prophet  of  God,  and 
that  he  holds  the  keys  of  the  kingdom 
in  the  day  in  which  he  lives.   God  bless 

you.  Amen. 

ELDER  ASAHEL  WOODRUFF. 

(President  of  the  Northern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  while  stand- 
ing before  you    upon  this  occasion  I 


16 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


earnestly  desire  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,-  that  I  may  be 
clothed  upon  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  to  enable  me  to  report  truthful- 
ly the  conditions  which  prevail  in  the 
Northern  States  Mission.  We  have 
heard  today  reports  from  that  portion 
of  the  country  that  is  washed  by  the 
waters  of  the  Pacific,  and  from  por- 
tions washed  by  the  Atlantic  and  the 
great  Gulf  as  well  as  from 
the  great  interior  country  em- 
braced within  the  Colorado  Mis- 
sion. It  is  my  privilege  to  re- 
port that  part  of  the  country  which 
may  be  called  the  district  of  the  great 
lakes.  Of  late  years  the  Northern 
States  Mission  has  been  shorn  of  some 
of  the  outlying  States  which  were 
formerly  part  of  it.  The  State  of 
Missouri  was  given  to  the  Southwest- 
ern States  Misson,  the  States  of  Kan- 
sas and  North  and  South  Da- 
kota were  added  to  the  Colo- 
rado Mission,  and  Ohio  to  the 
Southern  States  Mission.  At  the  pres- 
ent time  the  Northern  States  Mission 
is  very  compact,  the  city  of  Chicago 
being  almost  centrally  located,  geo- 
graphically. There  are  six  states  em- 
braced in  the  mission,  viz.:  the  state 
of  Michigan  (which  in  the  early  rise 
of  the  work  furnished  many  splendid 
converts  to  the  Church),  the  state  of 
Indiana,  the  state  of  Illinois  (whose 
soil  drank  in  the  blood  of  the  Prophets 
that  were  slain  for  the  testimony 
which  they  bore,  and  within  whose 
borders  are  many  points  of  historical 
interest  connected  with  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints), 
the  state  of  Iowa  (into  whose  wilder- 
ness the  band  of  pilgrims  made  their 
way  when  they  commenced  that  great 
exodus  in  the  summer  of  1846),  the  state 
of  Wisconsin  (which  furnished  the  "ce- 
dars of  Lebanon"  for  the  beautiful  tem- 
ple at  Nauvoo),  and  the  great  and  beau- 
tiful state  of  Minnesota,  with  its  more 
than  ten  thousand  lakes,  including 
Itasca,  which  gives  birth  to  the  great 
Father  of  Waters— the  Mississippi  riv- 
er. We  have  about  100  Elders  laboring 
in  that  mission  at  the  present  time. 

Our  work  has  been  somewhat  ham- 
pered the  last  few  months,  during 
which  time  it  has  been  my  privilege  to 


preside  over  that  part  of  the  Lord's 
vineyard,  owing  to  many  of  the  Elders 
having  to  be  released,  and  a  large  num- 
ber of  fresh  ones  sent  into  the  field. 
I  will  say,  however,  that,  notwithstand- 
ing the  great  majority  of  our  force  are 
young  men,  they  are  laboring  assidu- 
ously, conscientiously  and  diligently 
to  spread  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that 
part  of  the  world,  and  their  efforts  are 
being  met  with  reasonable  success, 
though  in  point  of  baptisms  the  suc- 
cess is  not  as  encouraging  as  we  could 
wish.  During  the  past  eight  months 
about  80,000  tracts  have  been  distribut- 
ed, and  practically  the  same  number  of 
families  have  been  visited,  and  25,000 
revisited;  2,500  meetings  have  been  held, 
among  this  number  being  about  1,000 
street  meetings.  I  do  not  know  that  we 
can  trace  any  conversions  directly  to 
our  efforts  upon  the  streets,  but  it  has 
allayed  a  great  deal  of  prejudice  and 
has  warned  the  people  of  the  impending 
judgments  which  God  designs  to  pour 
out  upon  the  world.  We  have  also  seen 
this  beneficial  effect  resulting  from  our 
street  meetings:  in  districts  where 
they  have  been  held,  the  Elders  have 
received  a  more  cordial  welcome  at 
the  homes  of  the  people  in  their  tract- 
ing.  We  have  in  the  mission  three 
Young  Ladies'  associations,  one  Young 
Men's  association,  and  seven  Sunday 
schools,  all  of  which  are  doing  effective 
work.  Among  those  who  have  identi- 
fied themselves  with  the  work  in  these 
states  we  have  some  good,  honest  souls, 
who  are  thoroughly  converted  to  all  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  promulgated  by 
the  Elders,  and  who  have  paid  their 
tithes  with  care  and  precision.  Many 
of  our  converts  are  employed  in  the 
factories  and  stores,  and  they  will  come 
religiously  each  Sabbath  day  and  pay 
one-tenth  of  their  earnings,  thereby 
setting  a  commendable  example  to 
many  of  our  people  at  home. 

The  spirit  of  gathering  seems  to  take 
possession  of  the  people  almost  as  soon 
as  they  embrace  the  Gospel,  and  it  is 
hard  to  restrain  them  from  carrying 
out  their  desires  in  this  matter.  This 
tendency  weakens  our  branches  to  a 
great  extent,  and  we  try  to  discourage 
it  as  far  as  possible,  advising  the  peo- 
ple, in  preference    to    gathering  and 


ELDER  ASAHEL  WOODRUFF. 


17 


leaving  employment  which  they  have 
and  going  where  they  will  perhaps  find 
it  difficult  to  get  suitable  employment, 
to  make  a  brief  trip  to  Zion  and  at- 
tend to  their  work  in  the  Temple  of 
the  Lord,  which  is  the  great  incentive 
for  them  to  gather  with  the  people. 

I  believe  that,  aside  from  the  work 
of  the  conversion  of  people  in  the 
world,  one  of  the  great  features  of  mis- 
sionary work  is  the  conversion  of  the 
corps  of  Elders  who  are  constantly 
traveling  throughout  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  Missionary  work  is  one  of  the 
best  educators  that  a  young  man  could 
possibly  have.  It  gives  that  practi- 
cal education  which  fits  them  for  the 
battle  of  life.  It  has  been  contended 
by  people  who  are  not  of  our  faith  that 
the  young  Latter-day  Saints  who 
show  a  disposition  to  follow  in  the 
footsteps  of  their  fathers  do  so  because 
they  have  inherited  their  prejudices. 
They  look  upon  it  as  a  case  of  the  blind 
following  the  blind,  and  the  ignorant 
following  those  who  are  still  more  ig- 
norant. They  say  that  the  solution  of 
this  trouble  is  greater  light,  greater 
knowledge,  and  opportunity  for  the 
young  men  to  come  in  contact  with  the 
purer  (?)  state  of  society  which  ex- 
ists outside  of  Utah.  That  is  largely 
the  contention  of  the  people  who  are 
opposed  to  our  faith,  notwithstanding 
the  great  amount  of  evidence  which 
time  is  continually  accumulating  to 
show  the  plan  to  be  a  rank  failure. 
The  young  men  of  our  Church  do  go  out 
Into  the  world,  with  very  limited 
knowledge  or  experience,  perhaps  with 
no  certain  knowledge  of  the  divinity 
of  those  principles  which  they  have 
embraced,  except  that  which  comes 
through  a  consciousness  of  the  honest, 
probity  and  truthfulness  of  their  par- 
ents who  believe  in  the  Gospel.  They 
go  forth  into  the  world,  which  has 
grown  rank  with  conflicting  notions  and 
Ideas,  and  they  are  compelled  to  raise 
their  hand  against  every  creed,  because 
every  creed  lifts  its  head  against  them. 
Surely  this  is  a  condition  the  most 
lavorable  that  could  be  desired  to  erad- 
icate from  their  young  minds  whatever 
respect  they  might  have  for  the  faith 
-of  their  fathers,  if  anything  could  do 
ao;  and  yet  the  leaders  of  the  Church 


and  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the 
young  men  all  unite  in  urging  them  to 
take  the  very  step  which  our  enemies 
declare  will  be  the  means  of  eradicat- 
ing from  their  minds  whatever  belief 
they  have  in  the  faith  of  their  fathers. 
We  see  these  young  men  by  the  hun- 
dreds taking  the  advice  which  comes 
from  such  opposite  elements.  They  go 
out  into  the  world,  remaining  there 
from  18  months  to  3  years  or  more,  and 
in  999  cases  out  of  1,000  they  return 
with  a  firm  conviction  of  the  truth,  the 
purity  and  the  unsurpassing  reason- 
ableness of  the  Gospel.  There  might 
not  be  anything  remarkable  about  an 
occasional  conversion  among  these 
young  men  to  a  faith  that  had  long 
been  professed  by  them,  though  per- 
haps but  little  understood;  but  almost 
without  exception  these  young  men  re- 
turn with  a  strong  personal  testimony 
of  the  truth  which  their  fathers  have 
espoused. 

There  are  many  ways  in  which  mis- 
sionary experience  is  of  great  value 
to  those  who  engage  in  it.  It  gives 
them  a  breadth  of  charity  and  consid- 
eration for  their  fellow  creatures 
which  cannot  be  obtained  in  any  other 
Way.  It  gives  them  an  insight  into 
the  hopes,  the  aspirations  and  the  con- 
ditions that  exist  in  the  world.  It 
gives  them  a  broader  understanding 
of  our  Father's  purposes  in  connection 
with  the  placing  of  His  children  here 
upon  the  earth.  It  also  develops  with- 
in them  that  quality  which  is  declared 
by  all  people  to  be  one  of  the  cardin- 
al virtues— unselfishness.  The  very  fact 
of  their  being  willing  to  sacrifice  home, 
friends,  and  all  that  is  near  and  dear 
to  them,  for  a  period,  and  go  forth  to 
suffer  the  scorn,  the  contumely,  the 
hatred  and  the  rebuffs  of  the  world 
which  they  have  to  meet,  is  an  evidence 
of  their  sincerity  and  their  unselfish- 
ness. This  gathering  of  people  from 
all  parts  of  the  world,  and  this  send- 
ing forth  of  our  Elders  to  every  na- 
tion under  heaven,  by  which  they  be- 
come acquainted  with  the  conditions 
that  exist  in  the  world,  and  then  their 
returning  home  with  the  experience 
which  they  have  acquired,  is  filling  this 
state  and  surrounding  states  with  men 
possessed  of  a  knowledge  of  the  world 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  cannot  be  found  in  any  other  com- 
munity on  the  earth.  I  believe  that  this 
continued  will  be  the  means  of  estab- 
lishing here  the  greatest,  the  purest 
and  the  most  progressive  people  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth. 

My  testimony  is  that  this  work  is 
true,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  divine 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Al- 
mighty of  establishing  His  work  in  the 
last  days  upon  the  earth,  and  that  be 
did  his  work  nobly  and  well;  that  he 
was  succeeded  by  spirits  which  had 
been  held  in  reserve  tc  come  forth  in 
this  important  dispensation,  to  continue 
the  work  and  to  build  upon  the  found- 
ation laid  by  the  Prophet  Joseph;  thst 
a  prophet  of  God  still  stands  at  the 
head  of  this  Church,  and  that  He  will 
continue  to  place  prophets  at  our  head 
to  receive  His  will  and  deliver  it  unto 
the  people.  I  pray  that  God  will  help 
us  to  work  out  our  salvation  with  fear 
and  trembling,  and  to  be  true  and  loy- 
al to  the  Priesthood,  to  God,  to  our 
friends  and  to  ourselves,  and  to  be 
counted  worthy  to  be  numbered  among 
the  jewels  of  our  Father  when  He  shall 
come  to  make  them  up.  I  ask  these 
blessings  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Je- 
sus. Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT, 

(President  of  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

I  feel  thankful  to  God  for  the  bless- 
ings that  we  have  received  tnis  day  by 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in 
listening  to  the  inspired  remarks  of  the 
brethren  who  have  spoken.  To  come 
from  the  missionary  field  and  look  upon 
the  faces  of  the  Saints  and  hear  the 
voice  of  inspiration  from  the  mouths 
of  the  prophets,  is  a  great  privilege.  It 
is  greatly  enjoyed  by  those  who  from 
day  to  day  and  from  month  to  month 
go  through  the  great  cities  of  our  land 
and  seldom  look  upon  a  friendly  face. 

The  Northwestern  States  Mission,  over 
which  I  have  been  called  to  preside,  is 
a  small  mission  in  some  respects.  It 
consists  of  the  State  of  Washington, 
British  Columbia,  Montana,  and  a  part 
of  Idaho.  I  took  the  presidency  of  that 
mission  and  started  my  labors  on  the 
14th  of  May  last.   I  found  about  twenty 


great  cities  in  the  mission,  and  many 
large  towns,  and  there  were  only  eight 
Elders.  They  were  so  few  and  so  inex- 
perienced that  it  seemed  when  I  ar- 
rived there  like  we  had  nothing  to  work 
with.  But  we  commenced  a  little  more 
systematically  than  the  Elders  had  been 
doing,  and  we  started  to  hold  street 
meetings  in  Spokane,  and  in  Butte, 
where  they  had  almost  given  up  the 
work.  In  our  preaching  instead  of 
speaking  so  much  upon  faith,  repent- 
ance and  baptism,  as  we  have  in  years 
past,  we  were  led  to  preach  upon  the 
divinity  of  the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith, 
and  upon  the  fact  that  God  had  once 
again  uttered  His  voice  from  the  heav- 
ens, and  that  He  had  sent  forth  divine- 
ly-authorized servants  into  the  great 
field  of  the  world  to  warn  the  people- 
of  the  judgments  of  God  that  are  com- 
ing upon  the  earth;  for  the  people  of 
Washington  and  Montana  are  so  utter- 
ly indifferent  to  the  Bible  and  its  con- 
tents that  those  whom  the  Elders  can 
reach  seem  to  have  no  interest  in  those 
things.  We  cannot  reach  the  family 
people,  who  make  up  the  church-going 
members  in  the  various  cities  where  we- 
labor;  for  they  reject  us,  shut  us  out, 
and  will  not  have  us.  When  we  Dreach 
on  the  streets  our  tongues  are  loosed 
upon  the  subject  of  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  God  and  the  signs  that  were  to 
precede  it,  and  we  are  led  to  proclaim 
that  this  people  are  the  ones  that  are 
doing  this  great  and  marvelous  work. 
We  have  also  been  able,  by  the  power 
and  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to 
defend  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young, 
and  to  show  up  the  majesty  and  the 
greatness  that  rested  upon  him  in  es- 
tablishing the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this 
place,  where  in  the  beginning,  when  we- 
looked  down  at  the  earth,  it  was  like 
an  ash-heap,  and  when  we  looked  at  the 
heavens,  the  sun's  scorching  rays  came 
down  upon  our  unprotected  heads  with- 
out pity.  We  did  not  know  anything 
about  irrigation,  and  we  could  not  tell, 
if  we  dropped  the  seed  in  the  soil, 
whether  it  would  ever  grow.  We  have 
told  the  people  that  in  the  midst  of 
these  difficulties,  so  huge  and  so  appall- 
ing, there  was  one  potent  voice — the- 
voice  of  Brigham  Young,  who,  sticking 
his  cane  in  the  soil,  said,  "Here  shall 


ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT. 


19 


be  erected  the  Temple  of  our  God;"  and 
there  was  one  voice  that  could  say, 
"Here  shall  be  builded  a  great  city." 
We  have  testified  to  this,  and  to  what 
it  has  done  for  the  people  of  the  west; 
and  when  we  have  defended  the  proph- 
ets and  declared  these  things,  we  have 
been  received  royally,  and  our  hearts 
have  been  made  to  rejoice  when  we 
went  on  the  streets  without  fear  and 
trembling. 

In  the  mission  we  now  have  15  Elders 
in  all,  a  few  of  whom  are  in  Spokane, 
a  few  in  Butte,  and  a  couple  in  Ana- 
conda. "Western  men  do  not  threaten  to 
mob  us.  They  seem  \o  feel  above  it. 
When  we  have  been  attacked  on  the 
streets  by  some  wicked  or  quarrelsome 
person,  we  have  found  that  we  had  de- 
fenders, who  rose  up  and  spoke  well  of 
us;  while  some  have  bx>rne  testimony 
to  the  greatness  of  the  men  that  set- 
tled this  country  and  made  it  possible 
to  settle  the  other  countries  west  of 
here.  We  have  three  branches  of  the 
Church — one  in  Butte,  one  in  Anaconda, 
and  one  just  established  in  Spokane 
with  22  members.  In  the  five  months  I 
have  been  there  we  have  baptized  17. 
We  have  Sunday  schools  in  two  of  our 
branches,  and  expect  to  establish  one 
in  Spokane  next  Sunday  or  the  Sunday 
following.  In  Spokane  we  have  to  hold 
our  Sabbath  meetings  in  our  private 
residence,  and  we  are  beginning  to  have 
it  crowded  each  Sunday,  with  tts  many 
strangers  as  Saints.  Our  Elders  are 
young  men,  without  any  training  in 
singing.  You  ought  to  go  out  on  the 
streets  and  see  how  lamentable  it  is  to 
call  what  we  do  singing.  Men  that 
cannot  carry  a  tune,  to  save  their  lives; 
but,  like  Brother  Grant,  they  are  per- 
severing, and  we  are  getting  so  that  we 
sometimes  sing  in  harmony,  if  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  rests  upon  us.  If  I  were 
to  speak  my  mind,  I  would  say  to  the 
rising  generation  of  men  who  expect  to 
fulfill  missions  in  this  Church,  learn  to 
become  good  singers;  learn  to  sing  in 
parts,  so  that  you  can  form  singing 
clubs.  When  you  go  into  the  missionary 
field  it  will  help  you  greatly,  and  it  will 
open  doors  to  you  that  will  not  be 
opened  if  you  do  not  possess  that  gift. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  our  mission 
we  have  not  been  able  to  set  the  world 


on  fire  by  any  means.  I  never  saw 
such  indifference  as  there  seems  to  be 
there.  Men  do  not  want  you  to  speak 
the  word  "religion"  in  their  hearing. 
They  have  their  business  to  attend  to, 
and  they  won't  talk  religion.  There  is 
only  one  here  and  there  that  cares  to 
speak  upon  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
But  we  have  considerable  opposition 
there  from  the  ministers,  and  from 
some  apostates  that  have  been  spewed 
out  of  the  mouth  of  the  Lord.  They 
get  into  our  street  meetings  and  begin 
to  abuse  the  prophets  and  find  fault 
with  us  and  the  word  of  God;  but  we 
ignore  them.  We  will  not  contend  with 
them,  and  they  are  getting  so  that  they 
have  no  following,  and  I  am  glad  of  it. 
In  the  cities  where  we  preach  on  the 
streets,  we  have  good  crowds  to  hear 
us,  and  some  of  them  are  quite  intelli- 
gent and  attentive;  but  they  are  not 
made  up  of  men  who  care  anything 
about  it  after  we  are  through.  Some 
of  them  will  come  and  bear  testimony 
to  the  excellent  character  of  our  people, 
and  that  is  all.  We  have  a  number  of 
scattered  Saints  there,  among  them 
some  young  people,  and  they  are  hoping 
that  some  day  they  may  come  where 
they  can  get  good  companions  and  mar- 
ry. They  are  holding  themselves  from 
the  company  of  the  wicked,  trusting 
that  in  the  future  they  may  have  the 
blessing  of  becoming  united  with  the 
righteous.  They  are  mixed  up  with  the 
sectarians,  and  we  cannot  hold  meet- 
ings with  them.  The  best  we  can  do  ia 
to  send  an  Elder  among  them  occasion- 
ally, and  then  very  often  they  cannot 
get  a  schoolhouse  to  meet  in.  But  we 
feel  blessed  and  encouraged.  We  have 
the  still  small  voice  up  there,  and  re- 
ceive of  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  We  feel  to  bless  the  name  of 
the  Lord  who  gave  us  that  mission,  and 
to  proclaim  His  Gospel.  We  would  be 
discouraged,  did  we  not  know  that  it  ia 
His  work,  and  not  ours. 

One  evening,  on  the  streets  of  Butte, 
we  met  a  minister,  who  got  up  a  new 
argument  against  us.  We  had  been 
preaching  that  a  church  without  apos- 
tles and  prophets,  pastors  and  teachers, 
called  by  divine  revelation  from  God, 
was  not  the  body  of  Christ;  that  a 
church  which  did  not  have  these  offi- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cers  was  a  thing  without  parts,  with- 
out limbs,  without  eyes,  and  that  a 
church  without  the  Holy  Ghost  was 
dead.  This  man  said  that  he  wanted  to 
tell  the  people  that  we  were  a  deform- 
ity. He  had  studied  Mormonism  seven 
months,  and  he  said  the  Mormons  be- 
lieved in  a  great  many  things  that  were 
not  in  the  New  Testament.  He  went 
on  to  say  that  we  believe  in  three  Pres- 
idents to  preside  over  the  church,  and 
there  was  no  such  thing  establishd  by 
Jesus;  we  believed  in  High  Priests,  and 
there  had  been  no  High  Priests  in  the 
Church  in  the  days  of  Jesus;  we  be- 
lieved in  Patriarchs,  and  there  was  no 
such  thing  as  Patriarchs  provided  for 
in  the  New  Testament  days.  He  con- 
tinued, "If  we  are  a  body  that  is  dead, 
without  limbs  or  eyes,  what  are  they? 
Are  they  not  a  body  with  three  ears, 
and  four  arms,  and  eight  legs?"  And 
he  called  us  a  deformity.  "Well,  the  peo- 
ple did  not  receive  him  very  well,  and 
the  answer  of  the  young  Elder  to  his 
remarks  was  so  overwhelming  against 
him  that  he  departed  very  quickly.  We 
have  been  blessed  and  prospered,  and  it 
has  not  been  possible  for  whatever  in- 
telligence has  been  brought  against  the 
work  of  God  to  bring  it  into  shame  or 
humiliation.  I  will  tell  you  what  we 
need  in  that  mission.  We  need  80  El- 
ders. But  they  are  giving  us  mission- 
aries just  as  fast  as  they  can  spare 
them,  and  we  are  thankful  for  them. 

I  ask  God  the  Eternal  Father  to  bless 
this  work,  to  promote  its  interest  every- 
where, to  bless  the  missions  and  the 
mission  presidents,  with  all  the  mission- 
ary Elders,  to  bless  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  all  the  interests  of  this 
people  everywhere.  I  ask  God  to  bless 
them  all,  and  to  plant  our  feet  wher- 
ever we  are  colonized,  that  our  influence 
may  be  felt,  and  that  we  may  exhibit 
those  qualities  of  salvation  that  shall 
attract  men  to  us.  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Friendly  manifestations  where  persecution  ex- 
isted before— Favorable  time  to  preaoh  the 
Gospel  —  Liberal-minded  listen  respectfully, 
but  few  yield  obedience— Talents  should  be 
used  for  the  blessing  of  all. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,   it  is  a 
matter  of  pleasure  to  me  to  be  with 


you  in  attendance  upon  this  confer- 
ence, and  to  have  listened  to  the  wor  Is 
which  have  been  spoken  by  our  breth- 
ren who  have  been  in  the  missionary 
fie-d,  seeking  to  sow  the  seeds  of  the 
Gospel  and  to  discharge  that  obligation 
required  at  the  hands  of  those  that  are 
warned,  namely,  that  they  shall  warn 
their  neighbors.  The  brethren  ha\e 
given  us  in  brief  some  of  their  experi- 
ences in  connection  with  the  work  that 
has  been  assigned  unto  them.  It  has 
been  my  privilege  in  the  past  few  weeks 
to  have  ha,d  some  little  opportunity  of 
mingling  with  the  people  in  several 
states  of  the  Union,  and  noting  condi- 
tions under  which  the  Elders  are  labor- 
ing in  some  of  the  fields  to  which  they 
have  been  appointed  by  the  presiding 
authority  of  the  Church.  My  own  ex- 
perience while  away  from  home  in  the 
discharge  of  a  duty  that  had  fallen  to 
my  lot,  was  among  the  pleasurable  ones 
of  my  life.  In  an  absence  from  home 
of  something  like  four  weeks,  I  do  not 
know  that  in  the  entire  time,  although 
I  mingled  with  a  great  many,  I  had 
one  wry  face  made  at  me  because  I 
happened  to  be  a  "Mormon."  I  do  not 
know  that  any  of  our  brethren  who 
were  with  me  were  subjected  to  any 
evidence  of  disrespect,  or  that  any  ex- 
pressions of  animosity  were  in  any  way 
directed  against  the  organization  of 
which  we  are  members.  We  received 
the  most  thoughtful  treatment,  and  in 
the  discharge  of  the  duties  that  were 
incumbent  upon  us  were  enabled,  I  be- 
lieve, to  impress  upon  the  minds  of 
seme  of  our  fellowmen  a  higher  regard 
and  a  better  understanding  of  our  pur- 
pose than  they  possibly  had  before. 

Among  the  most  pleasing  experiences 
through  which  it  was  my  privilege  to 
pass  in  connection  with  other  brethren, 
was  one  such  as  stated  by  Presidert 
Duffin  as  having  occurred  in  his  ex- 
perience, and  that  was  in  the  payment 
of  a  visit  to  Hancock  county,  Illinois, 
and  to  receive  very  kindly  consideration 
from  many  of  the  old-time  citizens  ot 
that  county.  Their  expressions  were 
of  the  most  friendly  character,  and 
many  of  them  absolutely  and  uncondi- 
tionally declared  that  Hancock  county 
today  was  "Jack-Mormon,"  and  not 
9nti-"Mormon,"  and  they  expressed  a 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


21 


wish  that  it  were  possible  for  the  Saint  i 
t<-  again  establish  themselves  upon 
that  land  and  build  up  again,  by  their 
thrift  and  industry,  the  towns  that 
had  withered  after  the  removal  of  the 
Saints.  The  sentiment  that  we  found 
among  many  of  these  men  and  women 
was  to  me  an  evidence  of  a  working 
change  in  the  breasts  of  the  people; 
and  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  the  op- 
portunities for  extending  the  Gospel  fn 
cur  own  nation  are  better  today  than 
they  have  ever  been  since  the  Saints 
left  their  homes  in  the  east  and  estab- 
lished themselves  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  "While  there  are  some  men 
who  are  given  to  misrepresenting  our 
character,  and  the  press  of  the  coun- 
try in  many  instances  take  up  very 
readily  anything  that  will  reflect  upon 
and  in  a  measure  retard  the  progress  of 
the  latter-day  work,  the  constant  travel 
of  the  better  elements  of  the  people  of 
the  United  States  is  having  the  effect 
to  wear  away  and  disprove  the  false 
st\tements  that  have  been  heralded 
broadcast  in  times  that  are  past  and 
gone,  and  the  possibility  of  arousing  a 
spirit  of  hatred  and  animosity  again.it 
u.<?  is  not  so  marked  as  formerly.  There 
are  large  bodies  of  fair-minded,  hon- 
orable men  and  women  in  all  parts  o* 
the  land,  and  while  they  may  not  be  as 
aggressive  in  their  spirit  as  the  enemies 
of  the  Saints  are,  they  are  ready  to 
give  aid  and  comfort  to  the  Elders  of 
the  Church  in  the  performance  of  their 
part,  and  to  defend  them  if  necessary. 

I  feel  that  no  better  time  has  existed 
for  us  to  fulfill  that  great  responsibility 
of  preaching  the  Gospel  and  warning 
the  world  than  exists  at  the  present 
time.  Our  contact  with  men  in  bust  - 
noss,  our  association  with  them  in  the 
variety  of  congresses  and  conventions 
that  are  held  in  the  various  parts  of 
the  nation,  has  awakened  in  the  breasts 
of  many  thoughtful  and  prudent  men 
mcst  serious  thoughts  in  connection 
with  our  ministry.  The  large  bodies 
of  men  who  attend  these  cattle  conven- 
tions, irrigation  congresses,  good  roads 
congresses,  Trans-Mississippi  con- 
gresses and  other  representative  gath- 
erings at  which  our  brethren  and  other 
-rieri  from  our  state  have  been  present, 
have  accomplished  wonders  in  chang- 


ing the  spirit  of  the  thoughtful  and 
fa?rminded  of  our  land.  One  man  who 
has  figured  most  conspicuously  in  al- 
most all  of  these  congresses,  and  who 
is  eminent  in  one  of  our  territories,  in 
a  published  expression  over  his  own 
signature,  recently  made  the  statement 
that  if  nothing  else  had  been  accom- 
plished by  these  conventions  and  con- 
gresses in  this  western  country  than 
the  obtaining  of  a  better  understanding 
of  "Mormonism"  and  its  purpose  in  the 
world,  that  alone  has  amply  repaid  the 
p-ople  of  the  Trans-Mississippi  country 
for  the  establishment  of  these  gather- 
ings. Coming  from  such  a  man,'  who  is 
equipped,  by  the  education  and  train- 
ing of  his  life,  to  discharge  fully  and 
thoroughly  almost  any  part  that  might 
be  required  at  his  hands,  after  an  ex- 
tended acquaintance  with  the  men  who 
h?ive  gone  from  our  state  to  these  vari- 
ous gatherings,  that  statement  is  a  wit- 
ness to  me  of  an  advance  in  the  line  of 
thought  and  in  the  opening  up  to  the 
fairminded  and  generous  American  peo- 
ple a  way  to  allay  the  intense  excite- 
ment that  in  the  past  has  been  awak- 
ened against  us  because  of  a  lack  of 
understanding  with  regard  to  our  pui- 
pose. 

I  believe  this  is  true,  not  only  within 
the  confines  of  our  own  great  govern- 
ment, but  also  beyond  our  borders  in 
the  great  south  land  and  in  the  lands 
to  the  north  of  us.  While  many  men 
are  not  inclined  to  express  themselves 
vipon  the  question  of  our  religion,  yet 
th«  justice  engendered  in  their  hearts 
as  a  result  of  their  mingling  with  the 
people  has  broken  in  pieces  many  of 
the  idols  of  the  past,  and  has  destroy- 
ed, in  a  great  measure,  the  work  of 
the  illiberal  and  smallminded,  too  many 
of  whom  are  found  in  the  ranks  of  the 
clergymen,  so  lacking  in  that  breadth 
and  understanding  of  the  principles  of 
the  government  under  which  we  live 
that  their  constant  clamorings  are  di- 
rected to  the  hurt  of  their  fellowmen. 
But  even  among  the  ministers  there  are 
men  of  broad  minds,  of  big  hearts  and 
generous  purposes.  While  they  are  not 
believers  with  us  in  the  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel  as  restored  through  the  admin- 
istrations of  the  prophets  in  this  dis- 
pensation, still  they  recognize  the  fact 


22 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


that  in  the  exercise  of  their  rights  and 
in  the  fulfillment  of  their  mission  they 
cannot  regard  with  respect  those  that 
would  trample  upon  them  in  the  exer- 
cise of  their  rights,  and  they  concede 
to  their  fellowmen  the  same  privileges 
that  they  desire  for  themselves.  All 
such  men,  whether  they  be  without 
faith,  whether  they  are  acceptors  of  the 
doctrines  of  the  Protestant  world,  or 
believers  in  Judaism,  or  members  of 
that  great  organization  known  as  the 
Catholic  church,  wherever  they  may  be 
found  they  are  among  the  protectors 
and  preservers  of  the  liberties  of  man 
and  those  human  rights  guaranteed  un- 
to us  by  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  To  these  men,  whose  hearts 
are  big,  and  whose  education  is  in 
keeping  with  the  character  of  the  gov- 
ernment which  the  Almighty  has  per- 
mitted to  be  established  in  this  day,  we 
may  turn  our  faces  with  a  degree  of 
safety.  But  when  it  comes  to  those 
whose  souls  are  narrowed  down  to  the 
acceptance  of  the  idea  that  their  pray- 
ers can  simply  ascend  in  the  interest  of 
their  own  little  circle,  and  that  liberty 
can  only  be  permitted  to  be  enjoyed 
by  the  members  of  that  circle,  senti- 
ments such  as  they  possess,  and  which 
find  expression  in  a  desire  to  interfere 
with  the  conscience  of  their  fellowmen 
will,  I  trust,  gradually  decrease  in  in- 
fluence and  power  until  beneath  the 
flag  of  the  United  States,  no  human 
being  can  be  called  in  question  as  to 
the  character  of  his  faith,  whether  he 
worship  Mohammed  or  whether  he  ac  • 
cepts  the  doctrines  and  views  presented 
to  the  world  by  the  great  Christian  or- 
ganizations that  are  proclaiming  Christ 
and  His  ministry  in  the  world. 

The  promise  to  us  in  the  introduc- 
lion  of  this  work  was  not  that  it  should 
ever  become  a  popular  system  in  the 
minds  of  mankind.  The  promise  made 
was  that  it  should  gather  one 
of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family. 
Up  to  the  present  moment,  take  the 
statements  of  the  men  who  are 
in  the  mission  fields  of  this  great  coun- 
try, and  there  has  been  no  declaration 
that  the  work  which  the  Almighty  has 
established  in  this  day  has  become  pop- 
ular among  the  people.  A  few  receive 
their  message;  a  few  have  adm'ni«tered 


unto  them  the  ordinance  of  baptism:  a 
few  aid  them  in  the  accomplishment  of 
their  work  by  providing  for  their  wants, 
or  by  preserving  them  from  the  at- 
tacks of  mobs  or  unwise  and  thought- 
less people.  The  work  began  with  a 
few;  it  probably  will  continue  for  some 
time  with  a  few.  But  its  destiny  and 
mission  will  be  accomplished  upon  the 
basis  designated  by  our  heavenly 
Father.  The  one  of  a  city  and  the  two 
of  a  family  will  be  gathered,  will  be 
nurtured  in  harmony  with  our  Father's 
purposes,  and  in  due  time  the  work  will 
be  established  in  its  fullness  and  be- 
come indeed  the  joy  of  the  whole  earth. 
It  will  not  come  with  a  rush;  it  will  not 
come  by  great  popular  demonstrations; 
it  will  not  come  as  a  result  of  any 
great  eloquence  or  skill  or  power  that 
we  may  possess;  it  will  come  through 
the  operations  of  the  still  small  voice 
bearing  witness  to  the  hearts  of  the 
few,  until  step  by  step  and  stage  by 
stage  the  children  of  our  God  will  be 
assimilated  and  brought  into  harmony 
with  the  principles  of  His.  truth;  for  it 
is  destined  to  accomplish  its  work  and 
bring  about  our  Father's  purpose.  "We 
note  the  conditions  that  grew  up  in 
the  ages  past,  when  the  Christian  re- 
ligion became  a  popular  religion;  when 
the  Christianity  of  the  Redeemer  was 
lost  or  buried  in  the  paganism  that 
surrounded  it,  and  when  the  ordinances 
of  God's  house,  with  the  keys,  rights, 
authorities  and  blessings,  were  lost  in 
the  philosophy  and  wickedness  of  that 
day. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  before  us 
is  this  entire  world.  Our  Father  has 
given  it  to  us  as  our  field.  From  its 
islands  and  from  its  continents,  from 
its  mountains  and  from  its  valleys  we 
are  to  gather  together  the  children  of 
our  Father,  indoctrinate  them  in  an 
understanding  of  the  principle  of  reve- 
lation, write  upon  their  hearts  the 
characteristics  of  the  prophecies  of 
old,  and  engender  in  their  minds  the 
understanding  that  as  prophecy  and 
revelation  were  requisite  in  that  form- 
er day,  so  they,  in  this  day,  who  would 
be  in  communion  with  our  heavenly 
Father  must  seek  to  obtain  that  self- 
same spirit  and  drink  in  of  that  reve- 
lation and  prophecy  that  stall  bring 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


23 


"to  the  souls  of  men  a  complete  compre- 
hension of  our  Father's  purposes  in 
connection  with  His  great  family.  To 
this  end  the  seeds  will  have  to  be  sown, 
gradually  but  surely,  that  little  by  little 
the  lump  may  be  assimilated,  the  condi- 
tions may  be  shaped,  the  hearts  of 
God's  children  may  be  brought  to  the 
proper  understanding,  and  that  upon 
their  souls  shall  be  written,  by  the  im- 
press of  His  Spirit,  the  truth  of  His 
work  that  shall  lead  them  to  obey  it 
and  do  His  bidding. 

There  are  many  things  we  have  to  do 
in  connection  with  the  development  of 
our  Father's  work  that  probably  in  our 
experience  are  very  trying  to  us;  but  we 
look  back  over  the  past,  as  we  remem- 
ber the  conditions  that  surrounded  us 
in  the  state  of  Illinois,  or  in  the  state 
of  Ohio,  or  in  the  state  of  Missouri, 
and  we  note  the  changes  that  have 
been  wrought  in  our  establishment  in 
this  mountain  home,  we  must  glorify 
our  Father's   name   that   He  utilized 
means  to  push  us  into  the  valleys  of 
these  mountains,  and  equip  us  by  the 
education  that  we  have  received  for  the 
accomplishment  of  that    great  work 
which  He  has  set  us  to  do.    There  was 
no  escape  from  this.   It  has  come  to  us 
in  the  accomplishment  of  His  purpose, 
and  His  purpose  is  the  gradual  regen- 
eration of  His  children  and  the  estab- 
lishment in  all  the  world  of  the  truth 
of  that  message  which  God  the  Father 
and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  made  known 
to  the  Prophet  of  this  dispensation,  and 
to  which  our  brethren  have  borne  tes- 
timony this  day  and  become  witnesses 
of  the  ministry  and  mission  of  the  chos- 
en ones  designated  to  scatter  this  seed 
and  bring  to  repentance  the  sons  and 
•daughters  of  God.    At  jio  time  in  the 
world's  history  has  there  ever  been 
made  so  wonderful  an  accomplishment 
in  the  sowing  of  seed  and  in  the  dis- 
semination of  principle   such   as  was 
made  in  the  life  ministry  of  the  Proph- 
et   Joseph    Smith.     In    almost  every 
church  we  hear  sung  songs  of  the  lat- 
ter-day Zion.    We  hear  them  clamoring 
in  many  sections  of  our  country  for  in- 
formation bearing  upon  many  princi- 
ples in  which  we  believe,  and  we  note 
that  the  thoughtful  and  prudent  men  of 
the  land.as  well  as  of  other  parts  of  this 


continent  upon  which  we  live,  desire 
our  association  and  companionship,  that 
the  labors  of  our  organization  may  be 
brought  to  bear  to  change  the  condi- 
tions in  their  sections  of  country  and 
open  the  door  that  more  of  our  Father's 
children  may  be  successful  in  securing 
to  themselves  the  blessings  and  com- 
forts of  life. 

I  recognize  the  fact,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  not  prudent  In  me  to 
speak  to  you  longer;  but  with  my  asso- 
ciates who  have  spoken  to  you  this  day 
I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
truth  of  this  Gospel.  I  desire  to  say  to 
you  practical  and  thoughtful  men 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  our 
Father  expects  you  to  utilize  the  tal- 
ents that  you  possess  in  the  creation  ol 
industries,  in  the  providing  of  work,  in 
aiding  every  child  that  shall  receive  ot 
that  faith  which  the  Almighty  has  giv- 
en unto  you,  that  he  may  secure  for 
himself  a  home,  that  he  may  be  indoc- 
trinated in  the  principles  of  eternal 
truth,  and  that  all  our  talents  may  be 
utilized  for  the  spiritual  and  tempora' 
blessing  of  every  one  of  our  Father's 
children  to  the  uttermost  limit  of  ou' 
capacity.  That  which  we  have  em- 
braced came  from  a  divine  source.  It' 
mission  is  a  mission  of  regeneration.  It 
moves  forward  in  the  accomplishmenf 
of  its  destiny.  Nothing  in  the  world 
can  stay  its  progress.  That  declaration 
that  "no  weapon  that  is  formed  against 
thee  shall  prosper;  and  every  tongue 
that  shall  rise  against  thee  in  judgment 
thou  shalt  condemn,"  will  operate  in 
the  future  as  it  has  in  the  past.  Ail 
honor  to  the  honorable,  upright  and 
generous  men  of  this  world  who  stand 
upon  the  basis  of  fair-dealing  among 
their  fellows,  and  all  dishonor  to  the 
narrowminded,  illiberal  and  ungener- 
ous men  of  the  world  whose  hearts  and 
minds  are  not  broad  enough  to  register 
aright  the  rights  that  they  themselves 
enjoy  and  that  the  rights  of  their  fel- 
lows should  be  sacred  in  every  sense  of 
the  word! 

May  the  blessings  of  God  attend  you. 
May  the  faith  that  was  delivered  to  the 
prophets  of  this  dispensation  And  its 
lodgment  in  your  hearts  and  homes. 
May  you  be  stalwarts  among  men  in 
the  defense  of  human  liberty  and  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  blessing  of  every  creature.  May  you 
impress  upon  the  souls  of  your  sons 
and  daughters  that  sacred  regard  for 
human  rights  that  no  human  being 
with  your  consent  should  be  denied  the 
exercise  of  his  conscience,  so  long  as  ne 
does  not  interfere  with  the  rights  or 
liberties  of  any  other  human  being;  and 
that  this  principle  and  spirit  may  grow 


and  garnish  your  lives  and  enable  you 
to  fulfill  your  destiny,  under  the  bless- 
ing of  our  God,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

^Ye  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Edward  H. 
Snow,  president  of  St.  George  Stake. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Sunday  morning,  Oct.  5,  1902. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  commences: 

The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning. 
The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come 
forth. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Albert  A. 
Smith,  president  of  San  Luis  Stake. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Lo!  the  might  of  God  appearing; 
From  on  high  Jehovah  speaks. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

Striking  evidence  of  friendship — Payment  of  fast 
offerings  for  the  poor— Necessity  for  avoid- 
ance of  debt. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  in- 
deed an  inspiring  sight  this  Sabbath 
morning  to  see  this  building  so  well 
filled  with  people  who  have  come  to 
hear  the  word  of  the  Lord.  I  am  thank- 
ful for  the  privilege  of  speaking  this 
morning  and  bearing  my  humble  testi- 
mony to  the  work  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  that  has  been  established  in 
these  last  days.  I  am  thankful  that  I 
am  in  harmony  with  the  Presidency  of 
this  Church,  and  with  the  members  of 
the  quorum  of<  the  Twelve.  I  hope  I  am 
in  harmony  with  every  Latter-day 
Saint. 

If  I  had  been  called  upon  to  speak 
yesterday,  I  felt  in  my  soul  that  I  would 
liked  to  have  spoken  upon  the  subject 
that  is  causing  so  much  comment  in 
the  newspapers  of  the  United  States— 
the  subject  of  blood  atonement;  but  as 
Brother  Ben  E.  Rich  spoke  upon  it  and 
explained  to  a  certain  extent  the  posi- 


tion of  our  Church  in  reference  to  it,  I 
will  be  content  in  saying  that  I  endorse 
every  word  uttered  by  him  on  that 
point,  and  I  ask  every  Latter-day 
Saint  to  read  his  remarks.  I  was  proud 
of  all  the  men  who  spoke  here  yester- 
day, and  who  bore  their  testimonies  to 
the  work  of  God.  I  noticed  that  the 
most  of  them  were  young  men,  born  in 
the  church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  of 
parents  who  had  suffered  the  hardships 
of  the  early  days,  and  I  was  delighted 
with  all  of  them  for  the  testimonies 
which  they  bore  that  Jesus  was  the 
Christ  and  that  this  was  the  Church 
of  Christ.  When  Brother  Rich  stood 
here  and  testified  that  he  had  not  re- 
ceived his  testimony  from  his  father, 
but  from  God,  I  was  happy  in  the 
knowledge  that  there  were  thousands 
of  young  men  born  in  this  Church  who 
could  bear  the  same  testimony;  and  I 
know  that  the  world  loves  a  man  who 
is  true  to  his  convictions  and  fearless  in 
defending  the  right,  wherever  he  may 
be. 

About  three  weeks  ago  I  received  a 
letter  from  one  of  the  largest  wholesale 
houses  of  Cincinnati,  In  wnich  they 
stated  to  me  that  they  had  met  Brother 
Ben  E.  Rich  (for  they  called  him 
"brother")  and  had  offered  him  a  place 
in  their  establishment  for  his  head- 
quarters, and  that  they  would  do  all 
they  could  to  help  him  along.  I  wrote 
an  acknowledgment  to  that  letter  and 
told  them  I  wanted  them  to  take  good 
care  of  him,  for  he  was  one  of  the  no- 
ble sons  of  God,  and  whatever  they  did 
for  him  would  indeed  be  appreciated  by 
me.    I  know  that  I  have  hundreds  of 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


staunch  friends  outside  our  Church,  and 
I  believe  there  are  hundreds  and  thou- 
sands of  staunch  friends  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Whenever  a  man  goes 
into  the  world  and  is  not  afraid  to  bear 
testimony  and  speak  in  defense  of  the 
principles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  I  tell  you 
that  honest  men  respect  such  a  one  for 
so  doing'. 

I  desire  to  call  the  attention  of  the 
people  to  a  question  that  has  come  to 
my  notice  in  traveling-  through  the  dif- 
ferent Stakes  of  Zion,  and  that  is  in  re- 
gard to  fast  offerings.  I  am  pleased  to 
state  here  that  there  are  a  number  of 
the  Stakes  of  Zion  that  have  no  poor 
within  their  borders,  so  I  have  been  in- 
formed in  meeting  with  them;  but  they 
have  thought  that,  because  they  had  no 
poor,  it  was  unnecessary  for  them  to 
collect  fast  offerings.  To  all  such 
Stakes  I  want  to  say  that  it  is  a  re- 
quirement of  the  Church  that  the  Saints 
observe  the  fast  day  each  month  and 
that  the  food  saved  by  abstaining  from 
meals  that  day  should  be  given  to  the 
poor  of  God's  Church.  If  this  were  uni- 
versally followed,  there  would  be  no  one 
lacking  food  in  all  Zion.  The  require- 
ment made  by  the  Church  in  relation  to 
fast  day  offerings  should  be  adhered 
to  by  every  member  of  this  Church.  It 
may  be  asked,  What  shall  be 
done  with  the  offerings  in  Stakes 
where  there  are  no  poor?  I  have  told 
the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  Bishops  of 
wards  that  in  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  and 
other  large  Stakes  there  are  hundreds 
of  poor  that  need  to  be  fed  and  clothed, 
and  could  be  with  ease  if  all  the  Saints 
paid  their  fast  offerings  as  they  should. 
If  the  Bishops  will  only  notify  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  that  they  have  an 
accumulation  of  fast  offerings  he  can 
tell  them  where  to  send  it,  and  it  will  be 
put  to  good  use.  The  poor  people  who 
congregate  in  the  large  cities  can  be 
helped  by  it. 

While  I  am  on  this  subject,  I  desire 
to  call  the  attention  of  the  Bishops  of 
the  Church  to  some  things  I  have  no- 
ticed in  regard  to  the  distribution  of 
the  fast  offerings,  which,  in  my  opinion, 
should  be  corrected.  In  one  ward  not 
long  ago  I  was  looking  upon  a  list  of 
the  names  of  those  who  were  helped 


from  the  fast  day  offerings.  Standing 
at  the  head  of  the  list  was  a  man  who 
had  never  in  his  life  paid  a  dollar  in 
any  form  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  he  was  a  man  who  had 
been  placed  by  the  people  in  positions 
that  brought  him  a  deal  of  means  ev- 
ery year.  He  lived  for  years  in  that 
Stake  of  Zion  drawing  a  princely  sal- 
ary, but  forgot  to  pay  his  tithes  and 
offerings;  and  now  that  adversity  has 
overtaken  him  he  is  ready  to  come  and 
ask  that  the  fast  offerings  be  given  to- 
him,  and  seems  to  feel  that  he  has  a 
greater  claim  upon  them  than  some 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints  who  perhaps 
are  suffering  more  than  he,  but  who 
may  not  call  upon  the  Bishop  so  persist- 
ently as  he  does.  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  in  looking  after  the  poor,  no  mat- 
ter what  their  condition  may  be;  but 
I  ask  you  Bishops  and  the  people  to  first 
remember  those  that  remember  God  in 
the  days  of  their  prosperity.  I  trust  that 
every  one  who  asks  aid  from  the  fast 
offerings  will  be  worthy  of  it  and  will 
have  a  rightful  claim  upon  the  offer- 
ings of  the  people. 

In  many  parts  of  the  Church,  espec- 
ially in  the  outlying  districts,  the  fast 
offerings  are  mostly  paid  in  flour  and 
produce  of  various  kinds,  and  where 
such  is  the  case,  I  would  ask  the  Bish- 
ops to  have  the  Deacons  call  upon  the 
people  every  month  for  these  offerings, 
and  let  them  take  what  they  gather 
to  a  place  where  it  will  be  kept  and 
cared  for.  In  this  way  let  the  people 
be  reminded  every  month  of  the  re- 
quirement that  is  made  of  them.  I  un- 
derstand that  in  Salt  Lake  City  and 
one  or  two  other  large  towns  where 
they  handle  nothing  but  cash,  the  offer- 
ings are  paid  at  the  fast  meeting. 
Where  it  can  be  done  in  this  way,  it  is 
all  well  and  good;  but  in  the  great  ma- 
jority of  the  wards  of  the  Church  we 
feel  that  the  Bishops  should  see  that 
the  Deacons  collect  the  fast  offerings. 

I  also  desire  to  call  another  thing" to 
the  attention  of  this  vast  audience,  and 
I  would  that  my  voice  could  reach  ev- 
ery home  in  Utah  and  wherever  the 
people  of  God  live.  I  refer  how  to  the 
practice  of  running  in  debt.  I  ask  the 
people  of  the  Church  of  Christ  to  get 
out  of  debt,  if  they  are  in  debt;  and  if 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  are  out  of  debt,  to  stay  out.Every- 
body  has  employment  now,  money  is 
plentiful,  the  banks  being-  full  of  it,  and 
it  is  easy  to  borrow;  but  I  ask  my 
brethren  and  sisters  to  remember  one 
fact,  which  is  considered  as  much  a 
truth  in  business  as  any  truth  of  the 
Gospel  is  religiously,  and  that  is  this: 
Failures  are  not  made  in  times  of  de- 
pression. In  hard  times  men's  creditors 
try  to  make  them  pay  up  and  crowd 
them  pretty  closely,  and  while  a  fail- 
ure may  occur  in  hard  times  the  cause 
of  it  began  in  prosperous  times,  when 
credit  was  easy.  I  ask  those  who  are 
in  debt,  to  get  out  of  debt  while  these 
prosperous  times  are  upon  us.  Specula- 
tion is  rife  in  the  land;  men  are  reach- 
ing out  all  over,  and,  I  am  afraid, 
reaching  farther  than  they  can  gather; 
and  the  people  here  as  well  as  in  other 
parts  of  the  country  need  to  be  warned 
against  this  tendency.  I  ask  the  Saints, 
as  the  President  of  the  Church  asked 
the  Priesthood  last  night,  to  get  out  of 
debt,  and  keep  out  of  debt.  I  want  to 
say  to  the  wives  of  the  Church:  When- 
ever your  husband  asks  you  to  place 
a  mortgage  upon  your  home— the 
shelter  of  yourself  and  children— if  it 
be  not  to  save  his  honor,  do  not  sign 
the  mortgage.  If  he  insists  upon  it, 
plead  with  him  for  your  home  and  the 
home  of  your  children.  Fathers,  I  say 
to  you,  wherever  you  have  a  piece  of 
land  in  Zion,  I  trust  that  you  will  not 
sell  it.  Do  not  sell  your  inheritance. 
Do  not  sell  the  farm  that  you  have 
worked  on.  If  you  are  getting  old,  di- 
vide it  up  with  the  boys  and  keep  them 
at  home.  I  wish  that  every  farm  in  this 
land  was  farmed  as  it  should  be,  and 
every  corner  attended  to.  I  have  often 
said  that  if  the  sugar  factory  in  Utah 
county  had  done  nothing  else  than  to 
learn  our  farmers  how  to  farm,  it  had 
proved  a  blessing  to  the  people  of  Utah. 
I  say  so  now.  I  ask  the  farmers  to 
see  that  every  foot  of  their  land  is  cul- 
tivated, instead  of  some  of  it  going  to 
weeds,  and  then  you  will  not  have  to 
have  your  boys  hunting  new  places  and 
getting  from  under  your  influence. 

I  ask  God's  blessing  upon  this  great 
multitude,  and  upon  His  Church  and 
people,  wherever  they  may  be  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.    My  prayer  is  that 


that  blessing  shall  be  upon  them,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 
(President  of  the  Juarez  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the 
few  moments  that  I  shall  occupy  in 
telling  you  something  of  the  condition 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  lo- 
cated in  the  republic  of  Mexico,  I  sin- 
cerely desire  that  I  may  be  assisted  by 
your  faith.  It  is  quite  unexpectedly 
that  I  am  called  to  occupy  this  posi- 
tion, and  therefore  I  must  depend  upon 
your  assistance  and  the  aid  of  our 
Father  in  heaven. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  in  Mexico  are 
doing  the  things  which  the  Latter-dav 
Saints  are  doing  in  Canada,  in  Mon- 
tana, in  Oregon,  in  Idaho,  in  Wyoming, 
in  Utah,  and  in  all  other  places  where 
Lhey  are  established.  The  Gospel  is  the 
came  wherever  we  are.  Our  effort  is, 
bv  example  as  well  as  by  precept,  to 
teach  the  Mexican  people  the  ways  of 
the  Lord  and  convert  them  to  the  truth 
Of  the  fact  that  God's  kingdom  has 
oeen  established  in  the  dispensation  In 
which  we  live.  There  are  in  Mexico 
about  12,000,000  of  people,  9,000,000  of 
whom  are  Indians  whose  blood  has  not 
been  intermingled  with  the  blood  of 
uther  people.  For  nearly  400  years 
these  Indians  have  been  a  subjugated 
race.  Since  the  conquest  of  Mexico, 
when  with  the  sword  in  one  hand  and 
the  Bible  in  the  other  the  doctrines  of 
the  Catholic  church  were  established 
among  the  Aztec  people,  that  great 
church  has  been  dominant  there,  and 
probably  95  per  cent  of  the  inhabitants 
v£  Mexico  are  converts  to  its  teachings. 
We  have  not  sought  insistently  to  in- 
troduce the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
among  the  Mexican  people;  but  b" 
degrees,  through  the  example  which  we 
set,  through  our  works  of  industry,  and 
through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  upon 
our  efforts,  we  find  it  necessary  to  send 
out  missionaries  and  organize  branches 
cf  the  Church  among  them. 

A  year  ago  last  June,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Apostle  John  Henry  Smith, 
a  mission  was  re-established  in  th<i 
(  ity  of  Mexico,  since  which  time  about 
200  people  have  been  added    to  the 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


27 


Church— that  is,  probably  150  convert? 
have  been  made  and  about  50  had  a1. - 
leady  been  baptized— so  that  we  have  a 
very  prosperous  and  promising-  branch 
of  the  Church  there,  with  headquarters 
in  the  City  of  Mexico. 

Our  relationship  with  the  federal 
government  is  of  the  most  agreeable 
cind  friendly  character.  President  Diaz, 
whose  strong  character  has  made  it 
possible  for  him  to  accomplish  the  re- 
markable reconstruction  of  the  Mexi- 
can government  which  has  been  the  re- 
sult of  his  administration,  owes  much 
of  his  character,  it  is  admitted  by  all 
to  the  strong  blood  of  his  mother,  who 
was  an  Indian. 

We  regard  with  a  great  deal  of  satis- 
faction the  devotion  that  is  shown  by 
these  simple  people  to  the  principles 
cf  the  Gospel  after  they  receive  them 
They  are  very  poor,  very  humble;  the> 
have  been  so  long  in  abject  servitude  to 
the  small  aristocratic  minority  which 
Las  controlled  and  does  still  control 
the  politics  and  finances  of  Mexico,  that 
the  spirit  of  independence  has  to  a 
great  degree  been  crushed  out  of  them, 
but  they  are  religious.  That  those  who 
are  converted  have  received  a  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  is  evidenced  by  their  works, 
by  their  repentance,  by  their  devotion 
to  the  Elders  who  are  laboring  among 
them,  and  by  the  disposition  which 
they  show  to  push  out  into  unexplored* 
fields  and  introduce  the  Gospel  among 
their  fellows. 

The  Lord  told  us  in  the  early  history 
of  the  Church  that  before  the  great  dav 
of  the  Lord  should  come,  Jacob  shou'd 
flourish  in  the  wilderness  and  the  La- 
manites  should  blossom  as  the  rose. 
Tf  you  will  carefully  study  the  reve- 
lations of  the  Lord  to  the  Church,  you 
v.  ill  find  that  our  destiny  and  the  des- 
tiny of  the  American  Indians,  who  are 
the  descendants  of  Lehi  and  heirs  to 
the  promises  which  God  has  made  to 
the  house  of  Israel,  are  very  closed 
associated  together.  You  will  find  that 
before  the  redemption  of  Zion  the  work 
of  the  Lord  must  be  introduced  among 
the  Lamanites.  Christ  said  to  His  dis 
cirles,  when  He  ministered  among  them 
upon  this  continent,  that  He  would 
firive  them  a  sign  by  which  they  might 


know  that  the  work  of  the  Father  was 
nbout  to  begin  for  the  redemption  of 
all  Israel  and  the  fulfillment  of  every 
word  which  had  been  spoken  by  tha 
mouths  of  the  holy  prophets,  and  this 
was  the  sign  which  He  gave:  "When 
these  things  which  I  declare  unto  you 
and  which  I  shall  declare  unto  you 
hereafter  of  myself,  and  by  the  pow«r 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  shall  b> 
given  unto  you  of  the  Father,  shall 
be  made  known  unto  the  Gentiles,  that 
they  may  know  concerning  this  peop^ 
who  are  a  remnant  of  the  house  of 
Jacob,  and  concerning  this  my  people 
who  shall  be  scattered  by  them;  .  .  . 
and  when  these  things  come  to  pass, 
that  thy  seed  shall  begin  to  know  these 
tnings,  it  shall  be  a  sign  unto  them, 
that  they  may  know  that  the  work  of 
ti  e  Father  hath  already  commenced 
unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  covenant 
v/nich  we  had  made  unto  the  people 
who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel."  S«, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  we  see 
the  result  of  our  labors  in  Mexico  and 
the  very  promising  outlook  there  is  for 
the  introduction  of  the  Gospel  there,  we 
see  these  words  of  the  Lord  fulfilled, 
and  it  encourages  us  in  the  hope  that 
w?  are  nearer — as  we  know  we  are — 
to  the  consummation  of  God's  purpose-3 
in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live. 

Our  life  in  Mexico  has  taught  us  pa- 
tience. They  are  a  slow-going  people, 
and  it  has  taught  us  to  develop 'to  a 
neater  degree  perhaps  than  among  any 
oLher  people  the  spirit  of  charity  and 
longsuffering  kindness,  knowing  as  we 
do  that  their  condition  is  the  result  of 
transgression  on  the  part  of  their  fore- 
fathers. We  have  learned  that  our 
friendly  relations  with  them  and  with 
+hat  government  are  largely  due  to  the 
fact  that  we  have  sought  to  bring 
blessing  where  we  have  gone,  that  we 
have  taught  kindness  and  considera- 
tion, charity  and  love  to  the  people, 
and  have  endeavored  to  exemplify  that 
in  our  lives.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
teach  resentment  and  retaliation;  there 
is  enough  of  that  in  the  nature  of  man. 
The  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
teaches  people  to  overcome  those  pro- 
pensities, and  to  bow  in  humble  sub- 
nvssion  to  the  will  of  God.  This  is  His 
work,  and  He  will  take  care  of  it.  That 


28 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


which  we  need  to  do  is  to  be  humble, 
faithful  and  considerate  of  the  condi- 
tions of  our  fellows  with  whom  we 
come  in  contact,  teaching  them  repent 
ance  from  sin,  teaching  them  love, 
charity,  and  absolute  dependence  upon 
God  to  work  out  this  great  problem. 
He  will  do  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
In  this  age  of  reason,  of  logic  and  of 
argument  the  truth  must  eventually 
prevail,  and  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel, being  founded  upon  evelasting 
truth,  will  triumph.  We  need  have  no 
fear  but  that  the  Lord  will  take  care 
of  His  people. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  people 
in  Mexico,  and  assure  you  that  our 
hearts,  like  yours,  are  absorbed  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord;  that  our  sole  desire 
is  for  the  upbuilding  of  His  kingdom, 
the  welfare  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  the  conversion  of  the  world.  This 
is  cur  mission,  and  with  us  more  es- 
pecially the  conversion  of  the  remnants 
of  the  house  of  Israel  surrounding  us. 
We  owe  a  great  deal  to  the  Lamanites. 
Whoever  stopped  to  reflect  that  the 
man  who  was  sent  from  God  to  teach 
the  Prophet  Joseph  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  and  who  showed  him  where 
the  plates  were  concealed  containing 
the  record  which,  translated,  was  given 
to  the  world  as  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
was  one  of  the  ancestors  of  the  aborig- 
ines of  this  continent?  The  Book  of 
Mormon  came  from  them,  and  it  con- 
ta  ns  the  fullness  of  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  as  no  other  book  does.  There- 
fore we  feel  that  there  is  some  obliga- 
tion upon  us  to  remember  this  down- 
trodden, oppressed  people,  and  with  the 
help  of  God  to  bring  about  their  re- 
demption, through  obedience  to  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 
Give  us  your  faith  and  prayers  in  this 
work;  we  need  them.  We  are  isolated 
entirely  from  our  brethren  and  sisters; 
we  are  surrounded  by  a  strange  peo- 
ple, with  a  strange  language,  with  cus- 
toms and  manners  entirely  foreign  and 
distinct  from  ours;  but,  thanks  be  to 
the  Lord,  we  have  been  preserved  and 
prospered,  and  the  people  are  con- 
tented and  happy,  satisfied  with  their 
lot,  and  entirely  devoted  to  the  work 
which  has  been  assigned  to  them. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 


sisters,  and  help  us  all  to  perform  oir 
duties,  that  we  may  ultimately  see  the 
triumph  of  truth.  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  WOOLLEY. 

(President    of    Sandwich  Islands  Mis- 
sion.) 

It  gives  me  joy  this  morning  to  meet 
with  so  many  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
have  been  absent  from  the  bosom  of 
the  Church  for  over  seven  years,  pre- 
siding over  the  Sandwich  Islands  Mis- 
sion. I  have  had  great  joy  in  my  la- 
bors with  that  people,  and  also  with 
the  Elders  and  sisters  who  have  labor- 
ed with  me  in  trying  to  convert  them. 
We  have  heard  from  Brother  Ivins  re- 
garding the  Lamanites.  The  people  of 
the  Sandwich  Islands  are  of  the  same 
blood.  They  are  of  the  seed  of  Israel 
and  great  promises  have  been  made 
concerning  them,  if  they  will  be  faith- 
ful in  the  latter  days.  We  have  had 
success  in  our  labors.  There  have  been 
upwards  of  2,000  converted  and  baptized 
into  the  Church  during  the  last  seven 
years.  From  last  April  conference  to 
the  end  of  August  there  were  300  new 
members  added  to  the  Church,  110  of 
which  were  baptized  in  the  old  district, 
where  the  Church  was  first  established 
by  President  George  Q.  Cannon,  and 
t  where  President  Smith  labored  in  his 
youth.  In  the  place  where  the  Gospel 
was  first  established  there  are  only 
three  remaining  outside  the  Church  to- 
day. This  has  been  a  hard  district  for 
years,  but  the  Lord  has  opened  up  the 
way,  and  the  honest  that  have  dwelt 
there  so  long  have  been  converted, 
some  of  whom  are  over  80  years  of  age. 
The  other  part  of  the  mission  is  also 
prosperous,  and  I  feel  that  we  are  do- 
ing a  great  labor  among  that  people. 
We  have  not  enough  Elders,  however, 
to  do  the  work  that  we  would  like  to 
do.  There  are  only  15  Elders  remaining 
in  the  mission,  and  four  sisters  from 
Zion.  But  we  are  aided  greatly  by  local 
Elders,  who  are  very  efficient  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  their  friends 
and  kindred.  We  also  have  in  that 
mission  a  sugar  plantation,  which 
makes  the  mission  self-sustaining. 
That,  too,  is  prospering,  and  we  are 


ELDER  HEBER  S.  ALLEN. 


29 


building  it  up  and  making  it  a  desir- 
able home  for  the  people  who  require 
labor. 

I  rejoice  this  morning  to  meet  with 
the  Saints  and  to  mingle  my  voice  with 
my  brethren  in  speaking  to  the  people 
and  in  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  this  great  work  that  we  are  en- 
gaged in  .  I  know  that  the  Lord  lives, 
and  that  He  has  been  with  the  Elder9 
In  our  mission.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet,  and  that  the 
Gospel  is  true.  I  know,  as  we  all  ought 
to  know,  that  we  are  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord;  and  if  we  will  be 
faithful  in  keeping  His  laws  and  com- 
mandments we  will  receive  exaltation 
in  the  presence  of  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

At  the  request  of  President  Smith, 
Elder  Woolley  spoke  a  short  time  in  the 
Hawaiian  tongue,  remarking  before  do- 
ing so  that  he  had  spoken  exclusively 
in  that  language  for  the  last  seven 
years,  and  for  five  and  a  half  years, 
previous  to  that,  during  which  time  he 
had  labored  at  the  Josepa  colony,  he 
had  been  under  the  necessity  of  using 
that  language  almost  entirely. 

ELDER  HEBER  S.  ALLEN. 
(President  of  Alberta  Stake.) 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege 
of  being  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. About  100  people  came  from  Can- 
ada to  the  conference — perhaps  the 
largest  number  that  has  ever  been  pres- 
ent at  such  a  gathering  of  the  Church. 
While  I  stand  before  you  a  few  mo- 
ments I  desire  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  and  am  desirous  of  being 
directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in 
what  I  say. 

I  am  very  young  in  the  position  to 
which  I  have  been  called,  the  reorgan- 
ization of  the  Stake  having  taken  place 
less  than  a  month  ago.  The  people  in 
Canada  feel  well  in  the  Gospel,  and  a 
good  spirit  prevails  throughout  all  the 
settlements  of  the  Saints.  Our  people 
in  Canada  have  much  to  be  grateful 
for.  They  have  been  wonderfully  pros- 
pered in  that  land.  The  Lord  has  bless- 
ed them  abundantly;  and  while  they 
have  many  things  to  contend  with  that 


you  have  not  in  Utah,  at  the  same  time 
they  have  been  prospered  and  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  have  attended 
them  in  all  that  they  have  set  their 
hands  to  do.  It  is  now  about  fifteen 
years  since  our  people  went  into  that 
country;  I  have  been  there  fourteen 
years;  and  while  the  people  of  that 
land  looked  upon  us  with  suspicion 
when  we  first  went  there  they  have 
grown  to  love  and  honor  us  now,  and 
to  seek  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  set- 
tlers for  their  vast  tracts  of  land.  One 
of  the  first  business  enterprises  that 
our  people  started,  about  13  years  ago, 
had  some  difficulty  in  getting  a  char- 
ter to  do  business,  for  it  was  feared 
that  if  we  got  a  foothold  in  the  coun- 
try we  would  drive  all  other  people 
out,  and  it  took  us  about  six  months 
to  get  a  little  business  incorporated 
with  a  capital  of  ten  thousand  dollars. 
It  is  very  different  today,  however. 
The  people  are  desirous  that  we  should 
settle  among  them,  and  the  Lord  has 
raised  up  many  men,  among  them 
some  leaders  of  the  government,  who 
have  fought  our  battles  in  the  legisla- 
tive halls  of  that  country. 

A  short  time  ago  I  had  occasion  to 
visit  some  of  the  officials  of  the  North- 
west government,  and  they  expressed 
themselves  very  freely  in  relation  to 
the  labors  of  our  people.  They  said 
they  had  not  seen  so  much  progress  in 
any  other  part  of  the  Northwest  as 
they  had  in  our  part  of  the  country. 
They  came  through  some  of  our  new 
settlements,  and  the  progress  and  pros- 
perity seen  on  every  hand  was  truly 
marvelous  to  them.  In  one  of  the  set- 
tlements just  established,  where  fifteen 
months  ago  not  a  furrow  had  been 
plowed,  this  year  they  will  raise  about 
150,000  bushels  of  as  fine  grain  as  you 
ever  saw.  This  was  a  marvel  to  some 
of  the  officials  of  the  government.  The 
Bishop  of  that  Ward  wrote  me  some 
time  ago  and  wanted  to  know  what  he 
should  do  with  the  tithing  grain,  as  he 
had  only  capacity  for  3,000  bushels  and 
he  expected  to  receive  from  12,000  to  15,- 
000  bushels.  I  met  quite  a  number  of 
officials  there  and  they  expressed  them- 
selves as  highly  pleased  with  the  man- 
ner in  which  our  people  have  taken 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hold  of  the  country-  I  saw  one  gentle- 
man who  had  labored  throughout  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  Northwest  Terri- 
tory, on  government  works,  and  he  told 
his  friends  that  he  had  been  better 
treated  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
than  in  any  other  part  of  the  North- 
west, and  that  he  saw  more  evidence 
of  thrift  and  prosperity  there  than  in 
any  other  place.  We  are  very  glad 
that  we  occupy  this  position  before  the 
people  of  the  country. 

The  Saints  feel  well  spiritually.  They 
are  trying  to  live  their  religion  to  the 
best  of  their  ability,  under  the  circum- 
stances in  which  they  are  placed;  and 
while  some  of  our  settlements  that  are 
located  near  the  mountains  have  suf- 
fered with  frosts  this  year,  upon  the 
whole  we  have  had  an  abundant  har- 
vest—plenty for  our  home  needs  and  a 
great  deal  to  export.  I  believe  that  we 
have  the  honor  of  being  the  best  tithe- 
paying  people  in  the  Church.  I  under- 
stand that  Alberta  Stake  stands  at  the 
head.  We  are  mostly  young  people  out 
there.  There  are  very  few  old  pe  pie 
among  us.  I  think  it  would  be  difficult 
to  find  15  persons  over  60  years  of  age. 
I  believe  the  Lord  is  modifying  the  cli- 
mate for  our  good.  We  do  not  have 
the  rigorous  winters  that  we  used  to 
have.  Our  young  people  are  well  looked 
after  in  that  Stake.  There  is  very  lit- 
tle sin  of  the  graver  kind  amongst 
them,  and  we  are  trying  to  the  very 
best  of  our  ability  to  live  up  to  our  re- 
ligion. As  an  evidence  of  the  spirit 
which  exists  in  our  Stake,  I  might  cite 
the  fact  that  twenty  or  thirty  people 
who  have  been  in  the  Church  all  their 
lives,  but  have  lived  on  the  outskirts, 
in  mining  camps,  have  come  down  this 
conference  for  the  purpose  of  go  ng 
through  the  Temple  and  being  sealed 
together  as  husbands  and  wives  and 
children. 

I  believe  we  have  a  very  great  future 
before  us  in  Alberta.  The  government 
officials  have  done  all  in  their  power 
to  make  it  pleasant  for  us,  and  they 
have  made  all  the  concessions  that  they 
possibly  could  under  the  laws  of  the 
land.  We  enjoy  just  as  much  fre  dom 
as  the  people  of  any  country  do,  and 


the  Lord  is  blessing  us.  We  hope  in 
the  not  distant  future  to  have  a  temple 
in  that  land,  and  I  was  very  glad  to 
hear  our  President  say  yesterday  that 
it  was  the  intention  to  build  temples  in 
the  outlying  Stakes  of  Zion.  I  presume 
that  our  people  have  spent  many  thous- 
ands of  dollars  ta  come  down  here  and 
go  through  the  temples  of  the  Lord. 
When  our  young  people  get  married  we 
like  to  see  them  start  out  right,  but  it 
is  a  very  expensive  trip  to  come  down 
here  to  go  through  the  house  of  the 
Lord;  and  it  would  not  take  many- 
years,  if  we  could  use  the  money  that 
is  spent  for  this  purpose,  to  build  a 
temple  of  our  own.  I  believe  that  Can- 
ada is  a  good  place  for  people  who  have 
not  got  good  homes,  and  for  young  peo- 
ple who  have  plenty  of  sticktoitiveness 
and  are  filled  with  faith,  courage  and 
energy;  but  I  never  have  advocated 
the  breaking  up  of  homes  by  Utah  peo- 
ple who  are  well  established  in  order 
to  come  to  Canada.  I  have  been  there 
quite  a  few  years  myself  and  am  pret- 
ty well  acquainted  with  all  the  people 
in  the  Stake,  and  I  can  say  that  many 
young  people  who  came  with  nothing 
and  stayed  with  the  country  are  well- 
to  do  today  and  trying  to  live  their  re- 
ligion. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  in  this 
great  work  of  His,  and  may  He  es- 
pecially bless  those  who  are  called  to 
preside  in  the  various  offices  through- 
out the  Church  with  wisdom  to  direct 
the  affairs  thereof,  that  the  purposes 
of  the  Lord  may  be  accomplished  in  the 
earth,  is  my  prayer  in  the  r.ame  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Appreciation  of  faithful  labors — A  spirit  of  rest- 
lessness not  desirable. 

It  may  be  appropriate  at  this  mo- 
ment for  me  to  say  a  few  words  rela- 
tive to  the  Alberta  Stake  of  Zion.  Most 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  aware  of 
the  fact  that  President  Charles  O.  Card 
was  the  pioneer  of  that  country,  and 
for  long  years  has  been  acting  as  the 
president  of  the  Alberta  Stake  of  Zion. 
We  desire  to  say  to  his  numerous 
friends  and  acquaintances  that  no  man 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  SMART. 


31 


who  has  been  called  to  such  a  position 
has  been  more  valiant  and  faithful  in 
the  performance  of  his  duty,  accord- 
ing to  his  knowledge  and  ability,  than 
President  Charles  O.  Card.  He  has 
been  indeed  a  pioneer,  a  faithful,  en- 
ergetic man,  and  has  been  instrumental 
in  laying,  to  a  great  extent,  the  founda- 
tions of  the  prosperity  of  the  Alberta 
Stake.  But  on  our  late  visit  we  found 
that  his  health  was  so  greatly  impaired 
that  it  became  necessary  to  honorably 
relieve  him  from  the  great  responsibili- 
ties of  presiding  over  that  Stake;  and 
I  think  you  will  all  bear  me  witness, 
if  Brother  Allen  will  continue  to  main- 
tain the  spirit  that  he  possesses  today, 
we  will  not  have  made  any  mistake 
in  selecting  Brother  Card's  successor. 

I  would  also  say  that  we  do  not  de- 
sire the  people  to  get  in  their  minds 
a  spirit  of  restlessness  or  a  desire  to 
migrate  from  one  place  to  another.  We 
would  like  our  brethren  and  sisters  to 
remain  where  they  are,  as  long  as  they 
can  consistently,  and  only  those  go  to 
the  newer  Stakes  who  have  a  necessity 
to  go.  We  desire  to  maintain  our 
foothold  and  to  continue  to  establish 
ourselves  in  the  central  Stakes  of  Zion. 
We  realize  the  necessity  for  this,  and 
we  hope  that  the  brethren  and  sisters 
of  all  the  Stakes  will  continue  to  abide 
where  they  are  and  contend  for  the 
success  of  the  people  in  the  locality 
where  they  live.  There  are  a  few 
places  where  our  people  have  settled 
which  need  no  words  of  commendation 
to  induce  settlers  to  go  there,  because 
they  plead  their  own  cause;  but  we  de- 
sire to  keep  the  foothold  we  have.  We 
do  not  intend  to  retrograde,  or  to  yield 
up.  We  believe  that  there  has  been  no 
mistake  made  in  the  past  in  forming 
settlements  in  the  south  and  in  the 
various  places  where  our  people  are 
located.  We  believe  that  the  hand  of 
the  Lord  is  in  it  all,  and  that  those 
who  directed  the  locating  and  settle- 
ment of  those  places  were  inspired  by 
that  wisdom  which  comes  from  above. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  SMART 
(President  of  Wasatch  Stake). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 


dependent  upon  the  Lord  to  direct  me 
in  the  utterances  that  I  shall  make. 
It  has  been  very  interesting  to  hear  the 
reports  from  the  various  missionary 
fields  of  the  world.  It  is  gratifying  to 
see  the  work  of  the  Lord  progressing 
in  the  earth  and  it  makes  my  heart  re- 
joice to  receive  testimonies  of  the 
same. 

A  year  ago  last  February  I  was  called 
to  go  into  the  Wasatch  Stake  of  Zion 
— seventy  miles  from  this  city  by  rail 
— to  succeed  President  Abram  Hatch  as 
the  president  of  that  Stake;  so  that  I 
am,  comparatively  speaking,  an  infant 
in  this  grave  responsibility,  and  I  can 
speak  mostly   of  our  good  intentions 
rather  than  the  labors  that  have  been 
performed.      We  are  5,500  feet  above 
sea  level,  away  up  in  the  tops  of  the 
mountains  in  a  very  beautiful  valley 
surrounded  by  the  everlasting  hills.  In 
reading  of  the  physical  structure  of 
Switzerland   I   often   think   that  our 
little  valley  may  be  compared  in  its 
beauty  to  some  of  the  beautiful  valleys 
of  Switzerland.     No  doubt,  this  is  why 
we  have  in  our  valley  so  many  good, 
sturdy  inhabitants  from  Switzerland. 
Our  little  valley  shows    the    hand  of 
hardihood,  industry  and  privation;  for 
the  winter  months  have  been  long  and 
the  summer  months  short.     There  are 
those  in  that  valley    who  have  gone 
through  all  the  privations  of  early  life 
in  these  mountains.      Many  of  them 
knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
passed  through  the  trying  scenes  of 
the  early  history  of  our  Church,  and 
crossed  the  plains  when  it  was  but  a 
trackless  desert.     We  have  nine  Pa- 
triarchs to  bless  the  people,  and  most 
of  these  Patriarchs  had  the  privilege 
of  knowing  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  their  old  frames  vibrate  under  the 
powerful  testimonies  which  they  bear 
that  he  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God.      We  have  many  aged  sisters 
who  knew  the  Prophet,  and  who  went 
through  the  early  trials  among  our  peo- 
ple.    We  feel  blessed  to  have  so  many 
aged  brethren  and  sisters  still  living 
among  us  with  burning  testimonies  of 
the  divinity  of  Joseph  Smith's  mission. 

I  desire  to  say  that  we  are  endeav- 
oring to  keep  up  with  the  spirit  of  the 

times.      We  encourage  our  people  to 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


remain  at  home  and  build  upon  the 
worthy  foundation  laid  by  the  men  and 
women  who  were  the  pioneers  of  that 
little  commonwealth.  We  have  hun- 
dreds of  acres  in  the  valley  still  cov- 
ered with  sagebrush — virgin  soil  which 
has  not  yet  known  the  plow — and  our 
hearts  are  going  out  in  loving  sympa- 
thy to  these  untilled  acres.  Our  hearts 
are  also  going  out  to  our  young  men 
who  are  going  to  Park  City,  delving 
in  the  mines  for  gold  and  silver,  and 
being  led  astray  by  the  vices  of  the 
world,  when  there  are  still  hundreds 
of  acres  yet  uncultivated  at  home.  Our 
minds  are  being  led  to  some  extent  on 
the  question  of  irrigation  and  along 
those  temporal  lines  that  will  assist  in 
sanctifying  the  land  and  bringing  It 
to  a  higher  state  of  cultivation.  In 
spiritual  matters  we  are  endeavoring 
to  do  our  duty.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
has  blessed  me  with  two  good  counsel- 
ors in  the  persons  of  Joseph  R.  Mur- 
dock  and  James  C.  Jensen — men  who 
feel  to  give  their  lives  to  the  service 
of  God.  They  have  stated  that  if  need 
be  all  their  time  and  means  are  at  the 
disposal  of  God  our  Eternal  Father  for 
the  upbuilding  of  His  Church  upon  the 
earth.  We  have  a  High  Council  who 
are  men  of  God.  They  are  united  with 
us  in  furthering  the  interests  of  our 
people.  We  have  a  corps  of  Bishops 
who  are  leading  the  people  as  best  they 
can  according  to  the  ability  which  God 
has  given  them.  We  are  endeavoring 
to  be  abreast  of  the  spirit  of  the  times 
with  regard  to  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood;  but  I  regret  to  say  that 
in  our  Stake  we  have  experienced  the 
difficulties  which  Bishop  Preston  spoke 
of  in  the  Priesthood  meeting  last  even- 
ing— that  is,  our  work  in  the  Teachers* 
department  is  not  as  we  would  like  to 
have  it.  In  the  auxiliary  departments 
of  the  Church  we  are  trying  to  keep  up 
with  the  rest  of  the  Church.  Speak- 
ing of  religion  class  work,  the  presi- 
dency and  High  Council,  and  for  the 
most  part  our  Bishops,  are  interested 
In  this  work.  We  see  that  It  will  be 
a  mighty  factor,  under  the  blessing  of 
God,  in  distilling  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  upon  the  minds  of  the  youth 
of  Zion.  We  realize  that  we  feed  our 
children's  bodies  three  times  a  day.but 
too  many  of  us  have  been  contented  to 


give  them   only     one  or  two  spiritual 

meals  a  week.  Therefore,  many  of 
the  youth  of  Zion  are  growing  up 
physically  strong,  but  spiritually  weak. 
We  recognize  this  condition  in  the 
Wasatch  Stake.  In  visiting  some  of 
our  religion  classes,  tears  have  rolled 
down  my  cheeks  to  see  little  tots  stand 
before  the  class  and  lead  their  class- 
mates in  a  practical  prayer.  It  has 
made  me  think  of  that  prayer  of  the 
Savior  where  He  said,  "I  thank  thee, 
O  Father,  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth, 
because  thou  hast  hid  these  things 
from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and  hast 
revealed  them  unto  babes."  I  have 
thought  of  it,  too,  when  our  little  chil- 
dren taught  the  law  of  tithing  in  these 
classes,  have  brought  their  nickels  and 
laid  them,  like  the  disciples  of  old,  at 
the  feet  of  their  teachers. 

May  God  grant  that  the  spirit  of 
progression  may  be  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people  in  every  part  of  the  vine- 
yard of  the  Lord,  and  that  we,  His  ser- 
vants, may  be  equal  to  the  great  duties 
that  He  has  placed  upon  us.  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Establishment  and  maintenance  of  settlements — 
Hand  of  God  manifest  In  them— Discrimina- 
tion against  the  Saints. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
been  very  much  delighted  with  what 
we  have  heard  during  this  conference, 
and  while  I  stand  before  you  to  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this 
work  and  to  say  a  few  words  I  desire 
your  faith  and  sympathy  and  the  divine 
aid  of  my  Father  in  heaven.  I  re- 
joiced very  much  in  the  words  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  this  mprning, 
and  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention 
to  the  fact  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  many  years  before  the  bulk  of 
the  people  ever  thought  of  coming  to 
these  Rocky  mountains,  predicted  that 
the  Saints  would  suffer  much  persecu- 
tion, but  that  many  of  them  would 
live  to  come  to  these  valleys  of  the 
Rocky  mountains  and  assist  in  estab- 
lishing cities  there. 

I  have  in  the  past  spoken  considerably 
regarding  our  new  settlements,  and  I 
want  to  say  a  few  words  this  morning 
in  regard  to    our  old    settlements.  I 


"ULDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


33 


know  that  the  brawn  and  sinew  of  the 
older  settlements  have  been  drawn  up- 
on largely  in  order  to  establish  new 
settlements  in  various  parts  of  the 
country,  and  as  a  result  there  is  a 
spirit  of  lethargy  and  not  of  progress 
resting  upon  the  people  of  some  of 
these  old  settlements.  The  young  and 
energetic  have  gone  to  Canada  or  other 
northern  locations,  and  have  left  only 
the  aged  and  infirm  and  the  non-pro- 
gressive, and  where  this  is  the  case  the 
settlements  are  in  a  state  of  decline.  If 
I  were  the  president  of  a  stake  in 
which  these  conditions  exist,  and  col- 
onization agents  came  into  the  stake 
and  attempted  to  draw  away  Bishops 
and  progressive  men,  I  would  demand 
that  they  show  their  credentials  from 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  or  I 
would  not  let  them  take  my  useful  men. 

I  feel  that  in  the  establishment  of 
these  settlements  we  have  been  doing 
the  will  of  God  and  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  fact  that  some  of  the 
best  blood  of  this  Church  has  been 
called,  not  to  occupy  the  most  desirable 
sections  of  country,  but  to  go  and  as- 
sist in  the  establishment  of  lands  to 
the  south  which  might  be  regarded  a9 
altogether  undesirable.  Hundreds  of 
thousands  of  dollars  have  been  spent 
and  lives  have  been  worn  out  in  es 
tablishing  these  settlements,  and  I  hope 
that  they  will  never  be  abandoned  be- 
cause there  is  better  country  some- 
where else.  I  want  to  tell  you,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  that  the  time  will 
come  when  the  wisdom  of  God 
in  establishing  these  settlements 
under  the  direction  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Church,  both 
past  and  present,  will  be  manifest,  and 
that  He  hasi  had  a  purpose  in  doing  it.. 
We  did  not  come  to  these  Rocky  moun- 
tains because  it  was  a  good,  desirabla 
country.  We  are  here  today  because 
President  Brigham  Young,  when  the 
pioneers  landed  in  this  valley,  said  this 
was  the  place  where  God  designed  His 
people  should  halt.  Those  who  wer& 
looking  for  good  countries  wanted  him 
to  go  on  to  California,  or  to  Oregon; 
but  he  said;  No,  here  is  the  place— very 
undesirable  in  the  eyes  of  men,  there- 
fore  it  will  not  excite  the  cupidity  or 
the  selfishness  of  our  enemies,  and  here 


we  can  rest.  As  a  result  of  the  inspira- 
tion which  rested  upon  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  his  successors,  the 
Saints  have  been  established  in  these 
nooks  of  the  mountains.  Had  they  gone 
to  more  favored  places.it  would  not  have 
been  long  before  they  would  have  been 
only  a  drop  in  the  bucket;  but  by  being 
placed  in  these  crevices  of  the  rocks 
they  have  been  able  to  maintain  their 
ground,  and  God  has  blessed  the  land 
for  the  sake  of  His  people.  As  I  have 
often  said,  the  Lord  has  caused  some 
of  His  choicest  sons  and  daughters  to 
go  into  the  stakes  of  Arizona  and  Mex- 
ico, where  they  do  not  raise  10,000 
bushels  of  grain,  but  where  they  have 
■gone  because  He  has  called  them 
through  His  servants  to  locate  there, 
and  where  they  have  determined  to 
stay  though  it  should  cost  them  their 
lives.  That  is  the  kind  of  people  that 
dwell  in  those  places  that  are  consid- 
ered undesirable.  They  may  not  be  de- 
sirable places,  but  they  have  to  be  built 
up  and  maintained;  and  we  do  not 
want  to  draw  from  them  their  best 
blood  and  leave  them  in  a  languishing 
condition.  We  want  them  to  continue 
to  progress,  to  husband  the  water,  take 
care  of  the  lands  which  God  has  given 
them,  and  build  new  houses.  We  go  in- 
to some  settlements  and  find  that  there 
has  not  been  a  new  house  built  in  the 
last  five  ok  ten  years,  and  all  the 
young  and  progressive  element  have 
left  to  the  detriment  of  those  who  re- 
mained. 

I  am  in  favor  of  maintaining  these 
settlements.  I  am  also  in  favor  of  main- 
taining our  foothold  right  here  at  head- 
quarters, where  we  are  new  almost  up- 
rooted, because  the  country  has  appar- 
ently become  too  good  for  us.  It  is 
worth  too  much  money,  and  conse- 
quently we  have  sold  out  to  those  not 
of  our  faith.  Therefore,  we  have  but 
little  voice  in  the  government  of  our 
city  and  in  other  affairs  here.  While 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  built  the  rail- 
roads, and  while  they  furnish,  I  am 
told,  about  80  per  cent  of  the  local  traf- 
fic of  these  roads,  there  is  scarcely  one 
Latter-day  Saint  in  a  hundred  in  the 
employ  of  these  large  railroad  com- 
panies. These  matters  are  controlled 
almost  exclusively  by  the  labor  unions. 


\ 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  contracts  for  our  buildings,  when 
they  are  let,  are  controlled  by  com- 
panies who  employ  union  men;  and  a9 
a  result  our  people,  who  are  counseled 
all  the  time  to  keep  out  of  these  things, 
have  to  take  what  few  crumbs  drop 
from  those  who  are  eating  the  slice. 
I  do  not  think  this  is  a  good  thing.  "We 
do  not  show  that  interest  in  each  other 
in  these  temporal  affairs  that  we  ought 
to  do.  We  have  not  as  much  interest  in 
obtaining  employment  for  one  another 
in  this  city,  take  us  as  a  whole  people, 
as  the  labor  unions  have  for 
their  members.  And  I  am  in  favor  of 
either  joining  the  unions  or  else  being  a 
union  among  ourselves  as  we  ought  to 
be.  I  feel  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  in  a  position  to  demand  some  con- 
sideration in  regard  to  these  things, 
and  that  we  ought  not  to  be  forced  to 
sell  our  homes  right  here  at  head- 
quarters because  the  land  has  become 
too  valuable  for  us.  I  love  the  little 
piece  of  land  I  occupy,  which  was  a 
part  of  my  father's  homestead,  and  1 
have  covenanted  with  the  Lord  ana 
with  myself  that  I  will  never  part  with 
that,  unless  I  have  to  do  it  to  maintain 
my  honor,  or  the  honor  of  my  people, 
or  to  buy  bread  for  my  family. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  this 
is  God's  work,  and  I  know  that  we, 
have  a  living  Church,  not  a  dead  form, 
for  which  I  thank  God.  May  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  be  upon  our  brethren 
and  sisters  who  have  worn  out  their 
lives  in  fulfilling  the  missions  where- 
unto  they  have  been  called  to  build  up 
the  great  southern  country  and  to  live 
in  the  less  desirable  places.  They  are 
among  the  best  people  we  have  in  the 
Church,  and  God  has  blessed  them  ana 
will  bless  them.  I  love  them,  as  I  love 
the  people  of  every  other  part  of  Zion. 
As  President  Smith  has  said,  there  are 
sections  of  our  country  which  will  rec- 
ommend themselves  and  speak  fox 
themselves;  but  I  do  not  think  that 
people  ought  to  be  drawn  away  from 
our  old  settlements,  to  the  detriment  of 
those  places,  in  order  to  build  up  some 
other  country.  I  am  interested  in  Can- 
ada, in  Oregon,  in  Big  Horn,  and  in 
every  one  of  these  settlements  that 


have  been  founded,  as  my  labors  in  the 
Apostleship  have  been  exclusively  in 
the  stakes  of  Zion,  I  think  over  these 
things,  and  I  am  concerned  regarding 
the  welfare  of  our  settlements  and  theii 
maintenance.  President  Smith  and  I 
went  to  St.  Johns,  with  authority  to 
release  the  people  there,  if  they  wanted 
to  go,  and  we  could  not  do  it.  The 
young  and  the  old  stood  up  and  ex- 
pressed their  feelings;  they  cried,  and 
we  cried,  and  we  were  determined  that 
♦we  would  not  raise  our  hands  to  aban 
don  a  settlement  which  had  been  es» 
tablished  under  the  direction  of  one  of 
the  prophets  of  God.  Now,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  let  us  think  of  these 
things.  Let  us  be  contented.  Let  u» 
be  progressive  in  our  own  settlements, 
and  let  us  strive  to  love  all  mankind. 
I  thank  God  for  the  honorable  men  of 
the  earth,  and  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  are  accomplishing  good  in  this 
world.  I  recognize  in  every  man  one 
of  God's  sons,  and  in  every  woman  ont> 
of  His  daughters;  and  they  are  all  my 
friends,  so  far  as  they  befriend  Zion  or 
speak  a  good  word  for  her.  May  God 
bless  us  and  fill  us  continually  with  the 
testimony  of  Jesus,  who  died  for  the 
redemption  of  all  mankind.  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  L.  A.  KELSCH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  while  stand- 
ing before  you  for  a  short  time  I  desire 
to  be  inspired  of  the  Lord  to  say  only 
those  things  that  shall  be  for  our  good. 
I  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  testimo- 
nies which  have  been  borne  during  this 
conference.  My  heart  has  been  made 
glad.  I  rejoice  in  bearing  testimony  un- 
to you,  and  unto  all  who  shall  read  con- 
cerning this  conference,  that  I  know 
that  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged 
is  of  God,  and  that  He  has  revealed 
His  mind  and  will  unto  His  servants 
the  prophets  in  these  latter  days.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God,  raised  up  in  this  dispensation, 
and  that  he  has  given  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord  unto  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth;  that  the  authority  which 
he  received  from  holy  messengers 
whom  God  sent  to  confer  it  upon  him, 
has  been  conferred  upon  brethren  who 


ELDER  L.  A.  KELSCH. 


35 


are  in  this  congregation,  and  that 
these  men  of  God  hold  the  right  and 
the  authority  to  act  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  all  the  world;  that  this 
Gospel  which  has  been  restored  in  these 
latter  days  is  going  to  revolutionize  the 
whole  world,  and  bring  together  the 
children  of  men  into  one  faith,  by  which 
every  man  and  woman  will  Know  that 
God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  he  died  as  a  martyr.  This 
work  will  continue  to  grow  and  increase 
among  the  nations vof  the  earth.  The 
Lord  is  at  the  head,  and  He  will  direct 
its  course.  Whether  those  of  us  who 
have  been  called  to  labor  for  Him  are 
faithful  or  not,  He  will  have  men,  and 
plenty  of  them,  to  accomplish  His 
mighty  purposes.  I  desire  to  be  one  of 
those  who  shall  be  faithful  unto  the 
end;  for  I  realize  that  It  Is  not  the  re- 
ceiving of  great  testimonies  and  prom- 
ises that  will  save  us,  but  those  who 
receive  these  great  blessings  are  ex- 
pected to  use  their  power  and  strength 
for  the  accomplishment  of  His  purposes 
and  to  endure  faithfully  to  the  end. 

I  have  had  the  great  pleasure  and 
privilege  to  be  called  as  one  o*  the  ser- 
vants of  God  to  carry  the  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  in  my 
weak  way  I  have  tried  to  fulfill  the 
responsibilities  which  have  been  placed 
upon  me.  The  last  mission  to  which 
I  have  been  called  was,  as  has  been 
stated  by  President  Smith,  a  mission 
to  Japan.  I  was  called  to  assist  Apos- 
tle Heber  J.  Grant  and  Brothers  Hor- 
ace S.  Ensign  and  Alma  O.  Taylor.  As 
you  are  aware,  a  little  over  one  year 
ago  we  left  here  for  that  land;  and  it 
seemed  to  us  when  we  arrived  that  we 
were  indeed  strangers  in  a  strange  land, 
for  everything  was  strange  unto  us. 
The  people,  their  customs,  their  habits, 
their  food — all  were  strange.  We  could 
not  speak  to  the  people,  only  through 
interpreters,  except  to  those  who  were 
able  to  understand  the  English  lan- 
guage. We  have  in  our  weak  way  tried 
to  do  the  best  we  could.  We  have  suc- 
ceeded in  making  two  converts,  and  we 
had  the  privilege  of  baptizing  them. 
We  might  have  baptized  many,  if  we 
had  desired  to  do  so;  but  we  realized 


that  they  did  not  know  sufficient  of  this 
work  to  justify  us  in  baptizing  them 
into  the  fold  of  Christ.  I  believe  that 
there  are  many  honest  souls  in  that 
land.  There  is  a  great  people  living 
upon  the  different  islands  of  Japan, 
The  Japanese  are  very  kind,  very  socia- 
ble, and  extremely  polite.  I  never  saw 
so  much  politeness  and  kindness  in  my 
life  as  I  have  witnessed  among  that 
people,  not  only  with  themselves,  but 
also  to  foreigners.  My  heart  went  out 
to  that  people  in  love,  and  I  had  a 
great  desire  to  preach  the  Gospel  unto 
them  in  their  own  tongue;  but  for  some 
cause  it  has  not  been  my  fortune  to  do 
this.  I  have  been  asked  many  times 
if  I  am  going  back  to  Japan.  I  want 
to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  have  been  released  from  that 
mission.  I  was  not  able  to  preach  the 
Gospel  in  their  language,  but  I  have 
preached  it  to  thousands  of  foreigners 
there,  and  to  the  Japanese  who  were 
able  to  understand  me.  I  visited  a  great 
many  of  them  and  preached  the  Gos- 
pel to  them.  After  I  found  out  that 
my  time  would  be  short  in  that  land,  I 
made  it  my  special  business  to  labor 
among  the  missionaries  of  other 
churches,  preaching  the  Gospel  to  them, 
trying  to  make  friends  with  them  and 
getting  them  to  stop  speaking  evil  of 
us.  I  believe  I  succeeded  to  some  ex- 
tent, at  least,  a  number  of  them  be- 
came friendly,  and  some  invited  me  to 
visit  them  again,  which  I  did.  I  met 
men  there  who  had  visited  this  city,  and 
notwithstanding  they  did  not  agree 
*vith  our  faith  they  admitted  that  we 
had  a  beautiful  city,  and  they  also  ad- 
mitted that  we  could  be  saved  as  well 
as  them,  if  we  would  be  faithful  to 
that  which  we  believed. 

The  brethren  and  sisters  who  are 
there  now  were  feeling  well  when  I 
left.  They  are  desirous  of  performing 
a  good  mission,  and  remaining  there  un- 
til they  are  honorably  released.  The 
language  is  very  difficult  to  learn,  and 
it  will  be  necessary  for  the  Lord  to  as- 
sist the  brethren  and  sisters  in  order 
that  they  may  acquire  it.  Until  that  i» 
accomplished,  I  do  not  feel  that  much 
will  be  done  among  that  people;  for 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


preaching  the  Gospel  through  an  inter- 
preter is  a  mistake,  I  believe;  always 
has  been,  and  always  will  be,  in  my 
opinion.  This  has  been  proven  in 
Japan;  but  we  had  to  have  some  one 
to  talk  to  the  people,  who  crowded 
themselves  upon  us  and  desired  to  know 
something  about  our  faith.  We  found 
that  the  interpreter  could  not  translate 
some  words  to  convey  the  proper  mean- 
ing, and  scholars  there  have  told  us 
that  it  is  very  difficult  to  translate 
English  into  Japanese.  There  are  many 
words  in  the  English  that  they  cannot 
find  equivalents  for,  and  in  order  to 
get  them  to  understand  our  meaning 
some  words  will  have  to  be  explained 
considerably.  For  this  reason  I  feel 
that  nothing  of  much  moment  will  be 
done  until  our  brethren  are  able  to 
speak  unto  the  people  in  their  own  lan- 
guage, thereby  getting  close  to  their 
spirits  and  warming  them  up  by  the 
testimony  of  the  truth.  The  people  are 
very  anxious  to  know  concerning  our 
doctrine;  but  whether  they  will  receive 
it  after  we  are  able  to  explain  it  unto 
them  I  cannot  tell.  We  can  only  plant; 
it  is  God  who  gives  the  increase.  Even 
if  they  should  come  into  the  Church  by 
the  thousands,  they  will  have  to  be 
humble,  prayerful  and  diligent,  or  they 
will  be  overcome,  just  as  we  have  to  be 
diligent  and  careful  in  order  to  avoid 
being  overcome.  For  from  the  begin- 
ning of  this  work  Satan  has  tried  to 
destroy  it.  You  remember  when  Joseph 
Smith  went  into  the  woods  to  ask  God 
what  church  he  should  join,  how  the 
power  of  darkness  seized  him.  I  be- 
lieve that  Satan  knew  Joseph  Smith  in 
the  spirit  world;  knew  he  was  a 
mighty  man,  and  that  he  would  seek 
to  overthrow  his  kingdom;  and  there- 
fore, as  soon  as  he  went  to  pray  unto 
the  Lord,  he  tried  to  destroy  him,  and 
it  was  only  the  power  of  God  which 
saved  him  at  that  time.  Then  from 
that  time  on  Satan  continually  sought 
to  kill  him,  and  finally  he  accomplished 
it,  though  not  until  the  Lord  permitted 
it  and  the  time  had  come  when  it  was 
necessary,  I  presume,  for  him  to  seal 
his  testimony  with  his  blood;  "for 
where    a    testament    is,"    says  Paul, 


"there  must  also  of  necessity  be  the 
death  of  the  testator."  Many  of  the 
Saints  have  lost  their  lives  for  the  Gos- 
pel's sake,  and  every  one  of  us  will 
have  to  be  willing  to  sacrifice  all  that 
we  have,  and  our  lives  if  necessary,  if 
we  expect  to  receive  the  same  blessing. 
Jesus  did  not  seek  to-do  His  own  will, 
but  the  will  of  the  Father.  We  shall 
have  to  do  the  same.  We  must  be  will- 
ing to  do  the  will  of  God  as  made  mani- 
fest through  His  servants.  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  and  his  counselors  and 
the  Twelve  Apostles  are  servants  of 
God,  and  they  give  unto  us  the  word 
of  God.  We  must  be  willing  to  heark- 
en to  that  word,  just  as  if  Christ  were 
to  come  himself  and  deliver  it;  and  un- 
til we  are  willing  to  be  governed  in  that 
way  we  will  not  make  the  progress 
which  God  designs  we  should  make 
We  must  be  willing  to  be  governed  in 
righteousness,  and  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  the  servants  of  God  do  not  de- 
sire to  exercise  any  influence  over  the 
children  of  men  only  upon  the  principles 
of  righteousness  and  justice.  Not  one 
of  you  can  stand  up  and  truthfully  say 
that  you  have  ever  been  told  by  any 
President  of  the  Church,  or  by  any 
Apostle,  to  do  anything  that  would  not 
be  for  your  good  or  for  the  good  of 
mankind.  I  know  there  is  safety  in 
being  humbled  and  willing  to  be  guided 
by  the  Lord.  If  we  are  obedient,  then 
God  will  bless  us.  If  we  are  willing  to 
be  judged,  we  will  make  good  judges 
ourselves;  but  we  never  will  until  we 
become  subject  to  the  power  of  God 
ourselves. 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
privilege  of  going  to  the  nation  of 
Japan.  It  has  been  a  great  blessing 
and  comfort  to  me.  It  has  been  a  good 
school  for  me.  I  have  been  taught 
things  there  that  I  never  would  have 
learned  in  any  other  place  perhaps. 
That  experience  will  be  a  benefit  to  me 
in  the  future,  and  I  thank  my  brethren 
who  were  inspired  to  send  me  to  that 
land,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  and  my 
brethren  that  I  have  been  honorably 
released.  I  desire  to  continue  to  labor 
for  Zion  and  her  interests.  I  desire  to 
be  a  servant  of  God,  to  keep  on  bear- 
ing testimony,    wherever    I  shall  be 


ELDER  L.  A.  KELSCH. 


37 


called  to  labor,  whether  it  be  In  a  ward 
capacity  or  in  any  other  direction.  We 
will  all  receive  that  which  we  merit.  I 
know  this  work  is  true.  I  bear  testi- 
mony that  this  people  are  true,  loyal 
American  citizens.  We  love  the  Con- 
stitution; we  love  this  nation;  we 
love  its  flag1.  We  have  proved  this  in 
the  past,  and  we  are  able  to  prove  it 
again,  should  it  be  necessary.  We  love 
all  good,  honorable  men  and  women, 
whether  they  are  Latter-day  Saints  or 
not,  so  much  so  that  we  are  willing  to 
leave  our  homes  and  all  that  is  dear 
unto  us  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  the 
Gospel  to  them.  We  are  willing  to  sac- 
rifice our  time  and  our  means  in  the 
interest  of  their  salvation.  However, 
we  should  not  regard  it  as  a  sacrifice. 
It  is  no  sacrifice  to  be  baptized,  when 
we  are  converted.  It  is  no  sacrifice  to 
pay  our  tithes  and  our  offerings,  when 
we  are  converted.  So  with  all  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel.  We  love  to  do 
these  things,  because  they  bring  us  joy 
and  satisfaction. 

Now,  I  thank  my  brethren  for  giving 
me  this  privilege.  I  rejoice  in  the  testi- 
monies which  have  been  borne.  I  love 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  God 
bless  us  and  unite  our  hearts  together, 
that  we  may  become  one  in  Christ 
Jesus,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  would  like  to  remark  that  Brother 
Kelsch  was  honorably  released  from  his 
mission  in  Japan.  It  has  been  discov- 
ered that  it  will  take  very  young  men, 
and  take  them  some  years,  too,  possi- 
bly, to  master  the  Japanese  language. 
Brother  Kelsch  has  been  serving  in  the 
missionary  field  for  the  last  Ave  or  six 
years,  without  any  respite  at  all,  and 
it  was  thought  that  he  was  a  man  too 
far  advanced  in  years  and  had  been 
serving  too  long  in  the  missionary  field 
to  keep  him  in  the  Japanese  mission  un- 
til he  could  learn  that  language.  There- 
fore, he  was  honorably  released. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 


Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah! 

Traitors  and  tyrants  now  fight  him  in 
vain. 

Benediction  by  Elder  C.  F.  Middleton, 
counselor  in  presidency  of  Weber  Stake 


OVERFLOW  MEETINGS. 

SUNDAY,  OCT.  5. 

Owing  to  the  large  number  of  people 
unable  to  gain  entrance  to  the  Taber- 
nacle during  the  services  of  Sunday 
"morning,  an  extemporized  overflow 
meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  ha) J, 
beginning  at  11  o'clock.  Apostle 
Matthias  F.  Cowley  presided.  The 
singing  was  rendered  by  the  Temple 
choir,  led  by  Prof.  Charles  J.  Thomas. 
The  speakers  were  Elders  Benjamin 
Goddard,  James  Iverson  and  M.  F. 
Cowley. 

In  the  open  air  another  meeting  of 
a  similar  character  was  held  in  the 
Temple  enclosure,  in  the  afternoon,  El- 
der Benjamin  Goddard  presiding.  The 
opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  H.  Felt.  The  speakers  were: 
Elders  James  Sharp,  Reed  Smoot  and 
George  Christensen.  Mrs.  Lucy  Smith 
also  delivered  an  address,  and  was  fol- 
lowed by  Elders  John  McDonald,  Jr , 
;>nd  Henry  S.  Tanner.  The  subjects 
seated  were  the  first  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  duties  of  the  Saints,  personam  • 
of  God,  women's  work  as  missionaries 
and  the  fulfillment  of  prophecy. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

Held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Sunday 
afternoon,  at  2  o'clock.  Elders  Abra- 
ham O.  Woodruff  and  Reed  Smoot,  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Apostles,  presided. 

The  choir  and    congregation  sang, 

"We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Proph- 
et." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Solomon 
H.  Hale. 

The  choir  sang,  "Where  the  Voice  of 
Friendship's  Heard." 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  WM.  H.  SEEGMILLER, 
(President  of  Sevier  Stake.) 

I  very  much  appreciate  the  privilege 
of  meeting-  in  this  conference  with  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  have  enjoyed 
myself  very  much  in  listening  to  the 
remarks  that  have  been  made  since  the 
conference  began. 

I  desire  to  add  my  testimony  unto 
those  of  my  brethren  with  reference  to 
this  great  latter-day  work.  I  know 
that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of 
God,  that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored 
and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  enjoy 
its  gifts  and  blessings.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  inspired  Prophet 
of  God,  that  he  sealed  his  testimony 
with  his  blood  and  that  his  testimony 
is  now  in  force  in  the  earth. 

In  listening  to  the  remarks  of  the 
brethren  this  morning— although  I  may 
be  but  a  new-comer  in  the  Church  as 
compared  with  those  who  gained  ex- 
perience in  Kirtland,  Missouri  and  Il- 
linois, where  the  Saints  were  once  lo- 
cated—when I  came  to  consider  that 
only  fourteen  years  of  the  history  of 
the  Church  had  been  made  in  Utah 
when  I  became  identified  with  it,  I  be- 
gan to  feel  that  I  had  been  associated 
with  it  for  some  time  myself;  and  as 
I  think  over  the  changes  that  have 
come  to  us  as  a  people,  I  also  rejoice 
and  testify,  as  my  brethren  have  done, 
to  the  knowledge  that  I  possess  that 
God  has  been  with  this  community; 
that  He  has  guided  them,  that  He  has 
directed  and  prospered  them,  and  that 
they  have  spread  out,  since  those  days, 
until  they  now  occupy  land  outside  of 
the  realm  of  the  United  States.  I  know 
that  as  we  have  prospered  in  the  past 
so  we  will  in  the  future. 

The  different  Stakes  of  Zion  have 
been  organized  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  might  acquire  an  education 
which  will  prepare  them  for  coming 
events,  yea,  for  the  coming  of  the 
Bridegroom.  There  is  an  important 
question  that  confronts  us  as  a  peo- 
ple, individually:  Will  we  be  numbered 
among  the  wise  virgins  or  among  the 
foolish  ones?  It  is  a  problem  that  con- 
fronts ever  one  of  us,  than  which  there 
is  no  more  important  subject  for  our 


consideration.  The  path  of  counsel,  we 
have  been  told,  is  the  path  of  virtue. 
Those  who  observe  the  counsel  and 
commandments  which  come  to  us  from 
time  to  time  from  those  who  are  in- 
spired and  appointed  to  advise  the  peo- 
ple, will  be  prepared  to  go  forth  when 
the  word  is  sounded  that  "The  Bride- 
groom cometh,  go  ye  out  to  meet  Him." 

There  are  grand  opportunities  before 
us,  and  I  hope  and  trust  that  we  will 
improve  the  chances  and  privileges  that 
are  ours  today,  that  in  time  to  come  we 
and  our  children  may  stand  with  the 
people  of  God.  When  we  look  around 
we  find  there  are  names  mentioned  in 
the  early  history  of  the  Church  that  we 
do  not  hear  sounded  today  in  the 
councils  of  the  Elders  of  Israel.  In 
reading  the  early  history  of  the  Church 
we  are  able  to  ascertain,  at  least  in 
part,  the  reason  for  this.  I  hope  and 
trust  that  we  will  appreciate  the  priv- 
ileges that  are  ours;  that  we  may  have 
testimonies  in  our  hearts  strong  enough 
to  endure  everything  that  may  beset 
our  pathway  in  life;  that  our  integrity 
may  be  great,  yea,  that  we  may  value 
it  more  than  we  do  life  itself. 

My  experience  thus  far  in  connection 
with  this  work  of  our  Father  is  that 
the  more  intently  I  labor  to  advance 
His  purposes  in  the  earth  the  more  joy, 
pleasure  and  contentment  I  have.  So, 
if  it  is  a  matter  of  contentment  and 
joy,  the  way  to  obtain  it,  as  I  under- 
stand it,  is  to  do  the  will  of  our  Father 
in  heaven,  so  far  as  it  is  made  known 
unto  us. 

May  the  peace  of  heaven  continue  to 
be  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints;  may 
this  great  latter-day  work  continue  to 
grow  and  increase,  and  may  it  accom-' 
plish  in  the  earth  its  mighty  destiny; 
may  we  who  are  beginning  to  grow  old 
in  the  work  of  our  Father  not  become 
weary,  but  may  we  continue  faithfully 
on,  doing  those  things  that  may  be  re- 
quired at  our  hands,  that  at  last  we 
may  gain  the  reward  which  the  faith- 
ful are  entitled  to,  and  hear  the  glor- 
ious words,  "Well  done,  thou  good  ar.d 
faithful  servant;  enter  thou  into  the 
joy  of  thy  Master."  I  ask  it  through 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


ELDER  C. 

ELDER  C.  N.  LUND, 
(President  of  North  Sanpete  Stake.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  my 
heart  is  filled  with  gTatitude  to  my 
heavenly  Father  for  the  opportunity 
tint  I  have  of  meeting  with  you  here 
in  conference.  I  have  come  here  for 
many  years  to  attend  the  conferences 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  held  at  th« 
headquarters  of  Zion,  and  I  have  never 
left  one  of  them  disappointed.  The 
inspiration  that  I  have  received  in  these 
gatherings  and  the  counsel  and  teach- 
ings to  which  I  have  listened  have  beep 
a  guiding  star  to  me  through  life. 

It  must  be  a  great  testimony  to  the 
world,  after  having  heard  the  Elders 
of  this  Church  announce  that  we  have 
a  living  Prophet  upon  the  earth,  as 
referred  to  in  the  hymn  this  afternoon, 
to  ree  the  people  gathering  here  by  the 
thousands,  from  all  parts  of  this  state 
and  from  other  states  in  this  Union, 
and  from  Canada  in  the  north  and 
Mexico  in  the  south,  that  they  might 
receive  the  word  of  the  Lord.  We  have 
rot  come  here  to  listen  to  man  as  man 
speaks,  but  we  have  come  to  receive 
the  word  of  God  through  His  inspired 
servants,  the  prophets,  whom  He  has 
raised  up  to  lead  Israel  in  these  latter 
days.  We  have  gathered  here  to  drink 
in  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty, 
that  we  might  receive  the  key-words 
for  the  future  to  guide  us  until  we 
shall  have  the  privilege  and  oppor- 
tunity of  meeting  here  again.  Such  a 
gathering  as  this  proves  that  we  be- 
lieve what  we  proclaim:  That  God  has 
T-.vlsed  up  a  Prophet  in  these  last  days, 
and  that  He  has  ushered  in  the  great 
and  glorious  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times  to  prepare  the  way  for  the 
coming  of  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  This 
is  our  testimony  to  the  world.  I  have 
rejoiced  in  listening  to  this  testimony 
during  this  conference,  as  borne  by  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  and  also  by 
the  mission  presidents,  who  have  come 
in  from  the  various  parts  of  the  earth. 
They  have  borne  their  testimony  that 
they  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God.  I  was  very  much 
pleased  to  hear  one  of  the  mission  presi- 
dents say  that  he  and  his  fellow-labor- 
ers had  been  inspired  to  take  up  th:s 


/ 

N.  LUND.  39 

subject  in  the  mission  field  where  they 
v/ere  laboring — to  testify  of  that  grand 
rran  and  his  mission  to  the  earth.  I 
have  always  maintained,  and  still 
maintain,  that  the  most  important 
thing  for  this  generation  to  know  is 
that  God  raised  up  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  endowed  him  with  the  pow- 
er, authority  and  keys  to  proclaim  the 
Gospel  to  the  world  for  the  last  time, 
and  that  through  him  Christ's  Church 
was  restored  in  its  original  power  and 
wth  all  its  blessings.  No  greater  mes- 
sage was  given  to  man  since  the  days 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  upon  the  earth 
1  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  numbered  with  you,  and  I  thank 
G'<d  with  all  my  heart  that  He  searched 
me  out  in  the  land  that  gave  me  birth 
and  enlightened  my  mind  with  the 
truths  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  that  He  brought  me  here.  When 
I  first  came  here  and  entered  the  largo 
tabernacle  for  the  first  time,  I  felt  that 
the  inspiration  of  God  was  there.  I 
saw  then  for  the  first  time  that  mighty 
man  who  then  stood  upon  the  earth 
as  the  mouthpiece  of  God  to  His  peo- 
ple, President  Brigham  Young.  I  feH 
that  never  before,  or  since,  for  that 
matter,  had  I  heard  a  man  speak  who 
possessed  greater  power  than  that  man. 
Although  I  could  understand  but  very 
little  of  what  he  said,  yet  I  felt  that 
he  was  indeed  a  Prophet  of  God  to  that 
generation,  as  well  as  Joseph  Smith 
had  been.  I  feel  that  all  the  men  who 
have  stood  in  that  position  since  have 
been  prophets  of  God  to.  this  genera- 
tion; and  I  feel  that  the  great  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  God 
today,  in  whose  veins  flows  the  blood 
of  the  great  prophet  of  this  generation, 
is  indeed  a  Prophet  of  God  unto  this 
people. 

May  God  bless  Zion;  may  His  peace 
and  His  Spirit  be  and  abide  with  us, 
and  may  we  enjoy  its  blessings  and 
its  inspiration,  that  we  may  know 
what  to  do  in  all  things.  Brethren 
End  sisters,  we  are  working  for  a  great 
cause.  During  this  conference  I  have 
been  struck  with  the  magnitude  of  this 
great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
it  is  growing  and  increasing  in  power, 
and  we  can  realize  the  truth  of  Daniel's 
saying,  that  the  little  stone  should,  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


lime,  fill  the  whole  earth.  It  will  be 
accomplished,  and  God  grant  that  it 
may,  and  hasten  the  triumph  of  truth 
and  right  in  the  earth,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MOSES  W.  TAYLOR. 

(President  of  Summit  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an 
inteiest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
I  may  be  inspired  to  say  those  things 
that  will  be  for  the  best  good  of  all  of 
us. 

A  little  over  a  year  ago  the  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revslator  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  sent 
To  my  office  in  Salt  Lake  City,  for  ma. 
lie  said  to  me,  "We  want  you 
to  leave  your  home  in  this 
city  and  go  out  and  live  in  the 
Summit  Stake  of  Zion.  A  few  day.; 
afterwards  three  of  the  Apostles  and  I 
boarded  the  train,  and  we  landed  in 
Coalville,  Summit  county.  When  we 
got  there  we  went  to  a  Priesthood 
meeting,  at  which  there  was  a  fair 
representation  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Stake.  At  this  meeting  these  three 
Apostles  disorganized  the  whole  Stake, 
leaving  out  of  office  all  the  Bishops, 
with  their  counselors,  the  High  Coun- 
cilors, the  presidency  of  the  Stake,  and 
all  the  other  officers  of  the  Stake.  Al- 
though I  was  a  stranger  in  a  strange 
land,  apparently,  after  the  Priesthood 
meeting,  the  same  evening,  before  these 
three  brethren  boarded  the  train  for 
home,  they  said  to  me,  "Now,  Moses,  fix 
it  up.  You  have  got  to  stay  here  and 
fix  it  up." 

I  did  not  feel  that  I  was  altogether 
alone;  I  went  to  the  Lord  and  told  Him 
that  He  and  I  were  the  only  officers  in 
the  Stake  now.  I  thought  it  was  a  good 
thing  to  go  in  partners  with  the  Lord; 
He  has  been  good  partner  to  me — the 
best  I  have  ever  had.  He  has  blessed 
me  in  my  labors;  for  out  there  in  the 
tops  of  the  mountains,  on  the  little 
streams  in  Summit  county, I  found  some 
of  the  best  people  I  ever  met  in  my  life. 
We  have  been  trying  to  raise  some  ap- 
ples out  there  in  that  cold  country,  and 
at  our  Priesthood  meeting,  held  a  week 
ago,  we  made  such  a  fine  showing  that 


everyone  that  tasted  them  said  they 
were  better  than  any  they  had  ever 
eaten.  I  said  the  apples  were  like  the 
land,  and  water  and  the  air.that  every- 
thing wras  good  there,  even  the  people. 
With  the  aid  of  Apostle  Smoot  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord,  we  went 
through  the  Stake  and  selected  a  Bish- 
opric for  each  of  the  eighteen  wards; 
we  also  selected  a  High  Council.  Our 
main  desire  in  choosing  these  brethren 
was  that  they  should  be  men  who  set  a 
good  example.  When  I  went  out  to  se- 
lect counselors  for  myself  my  first 
thought  and  my  prayer  to  my  heavenly 
Father  was  that  I  might  be  led  to  men 
that  set  an  example  worthy  of  emula- 
tion. I  was  led  to  the  homes  of  two 
brethren  who,  with  their  families,  wTere 
observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
paying  their  tithing.  This  requirement 
was  made  of  all  the  brethren;  so,  when 
we  got  through  we  had  men  who  weie 
observing  these  principles  and  who 
knew  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  God.  Of  course,  we  had  to  take  some 
men  who  w^ere  using  tobacco  and  tell 
them  to  stop  it;  and  I  bear  testimony 
to  the  people  assembled  here  in  con- 
ference that  out  of  the  hundreds  of  offi- 
cers chosen  to  preside  in  any  capacity 
in  that  Stake,  of  whom  the  requirement 
was  made,  it  has  not  been  impossible 
for  any  one  of  them  to  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  Those  who  have  been  in 
the  habit  of  breaking  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, all  the  way  from  six  to  ninety-two 
years  of  age,  have  been  able  to  quit 
that  course.  They  have  said  to  me 
that  the  Lord  had  taken  away  from 
them  the  desire  for  such  things.  I  want- 
ed to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  with 
regard  to  this  thing,  because  wherever 
we  go  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  we 
find  people  who  say  they  cannot  quit 
tobacco,  or  "I  cannot  quit  tea  and  cof- 
fee, as  I  would  have  a  headache  all  day 
long  if  I  did,"  and  all  such  excuses. 
Hundreds  of  the  people  of  the  Summit 
Stake  could  bear  the  same  testimony — 
that  they  have  been  able  to  leave  off  the 
use  of  these  unwholesome  things  and 
observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  The  rea- 
son they  have  been  able  to  do  this, 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  because  they 
have  taken  the  Lord  In  as  a  partner 
with  them.    They  have  all  said  that. 


ELDER  MOSES  W.  TAYLOR. 


41 


with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  they  would 
do  this  thing. 

Now,  I  believe  that  the  people  out 
there  area  good  people  to  make  sacri- 
fices; I  can  testify  to  this.  Some  people 
get  the  notion  that  the  ward  they  live 
in  is  the  only  ward  in  the  Church.  We 
have  been  endeavoring  to  get  the  people 
to  discard  this  selfish  idea  and  to  be 
more  liberal  and  broadminded. 

We  went  after  some  of  the  Stakes 
adjoining  us  last  summer,  and,  with 
them,  got  together  on  the  water  ques- 
tion. We  decided  to  aid  and  assist  one 
another  in  our  distress.  During  the 
dryest  part  of  the  season  the  people 
of  the  lower  counties  sent  word  to  the 
Saints  of  Summit  Stake  asking  if  they 
would  not  turn  down  the  water.  They 
said  they  realized  that  it  was  the  driest 
part  of  the  season  and  that  the  people 
of  Summit  Stake  needed  the  water  for 
their  own  lands,  but  that  they  felt  to 
appeal  to  them  for  aid.  In  response  to 
this  appeal  every  ditch  in  the  county 
was  closed  for  eight  days,  and  immedi- 
ately afterwards  the  Saints  of  Morgan 
county  did  the  same  thing;  so  the  peo- 
ple below  were  blessed.  Later  in  the 
season  some  of  the  Bishops,  and  other 
prominent  men  of  our  Stake,  came  to 
me  and  said,  "Brother  Taylor,  though 
the  water  was  taken  from  our  lands, 
still  our  crops  are  abundant.  The  Lord 
has  blessed  us  for  our  sacrifice."  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  I  tell  you  that  where  a 
spirit  like  that  is  exhibited  the  Lord 
cannot  withhold  His  blessings. 

While  on  this  subject  I  should  say 
that  grain,  cows,  horses,  sheep,  money, 
and  all  those  things,  are  not  always 
blessed.  There  are  two  kinds  of 
money,  one  kind  carries  with  it 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  the  oth- 
er carries  with  it  the  blight  of 
the  prince  of  darkness.  A  man  came 
to  me  recently  and  said  that  he  had 
sons  who,  in  their  youth,  worked  faith- 
fully with  him;  the  Lord  blessed  him 
with  means,  and  these  sons  grew  up* 
and  became  good  and  honorable  men 
in  the  community.  "Now,"  said  he,  "I 
have  other  sons  growing  up;  they  are 
different  from  the  first;  they  are  un- 
governable, and  I  can  do  nothing  with 
them."      I  could  have  told  him  the 


cause  of  the  difference  between  these 
sons:  When  his  older  sons  were  grow- 
ing up  he  was  paying  his  tithes  and 
offerings,  attending  his  meetings  and 
performing  his  other  duties,  and  these 
sons  grew  up  under  a  good  influence; 
his  money  and  increase  had  the  bless- 
ings of  God  UDon  it.  But  conditions 
changed.  He  got  into  trouble  with 
his  Bishop  and  the  president  of  his 
Stake,  and  finally  left  the  Church.  His 
other  sons  came  along,  but  they  grew 
up  under  a  different  influence.  They 
were  proud  of  their  gain,  and  were 
using  this  money,  which  looked  the 
same  as  the  other,  but  which  had  the 
blight  upon  it  and  was  a  curse  to 
them;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  had 
been  a  blessing  to  their  father  and 
their  other  brothers.  May  the  Lord 
add  His  blessings  to  all,  which  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  of  Logan, 
then  sang  a  solo,  the  choir  joining  in 
the  chorus. 


ELDER  JAMES  W.  PAXMAN. 
(President  of  Juab  Stake.) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
feel  very  much  in  need  of  your  faith 
and  prayers  and  the  assistance  of  the 
Spirit  during  the  few  moments  I  shall 
stand  before  you  this  afternoon. 

I  deem  it  a  great  privilege  to  have 
the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the 
congregations  of  Israel  in  general  Con- 
ference, and  to  hear  the  voice  of  in* 
spiration,  which  has  been  sounded  in 
our  ears  not  only  during  this  glorious 
conference,  but  also  during  the  con- 
ferences that  have  preceded  it.  I  was 
thinking,  in  listening  to  the  remarks 
of  Brothers  Seegmiller  and  Lund,  that 
it  had  been  my  good  fortune  to  meet 
with  the  Saints  in  Conference  ever 
since  I  was  a  boy  in  my  teens.  I  have 
not  missed  a  conference  of  the  Church, 
since  my  boyhood,  except  when  I  was 
out  of  the  state.  In\hese  Conferences 
I  can  truthfully  say  that  I  have  felt  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  This 
conference  has  been  no  exception  to 
the  others  in  this  regard;  if  there  is 
any  difference,  I  think  I  see  more  vigor 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  strength  in  the  testimony  of  my 
brethren  at  this  Conference. 

I  rejoice  to  know  that  we  live  in  a 
day  and  ag-e  of  the  world  in  which 
the  Gospel  has  been  fully  established 
in  the  earth  in  its  primitive  purity  and 
grandeur,  with  men  inspired  of  God  and 
raised  up  to  take  charge  of  His  work 
in  the  earth  and  to  direct  His  people 
aright.     I  feel  grateful  that  it  has  been 
my  lot  to  have  the  still  small  voice  in 
my  soul,  so  that  the  cry  of  the  shep- 
herd has  found  a  response.  I  felt  thank- 
ful to  hear  the  testimony  of  Apostle 
Reed   Smoot   this   morning,   when  he 
said  he  felt  that  he  was  in  accord  with 
those  that  presided  over  him,  and  all 
the  members  of  the  Church,  as  well  as 
the  principles   and   doctrines     of  the 
Gospel.     I  thought  that  was  a  most 
happy  state  to  be  in.     I  feel    to  join 
with  him  in  the  joy  and  pleasure  ex- 
pressed by  him  in  this  glorious  testi- 
mony.    L.  too,  feel  that  the  Lord  has 
been  kind  to  me  and  has  been  my 
friend.  I  know  that  He  will  be  an  ever- 
lasting friend  to  the  children  of  men, 
inasmuch  as  they  seek  unto  Him  with 
full  purpose  of  heart,  and  no  one  will 
seek  Him  in  vain.      I  rejoice    in  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  because  I  see 
in  them  the  virtue  to  redeem  this  fallen 
world.     I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  our 
Elders  are  able  to  bear,  and  are  bear- 
ing, to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I 
feel  grateful  and  proud  that  the  same 
spirit  possesses  all  our  Elders  and  mis- 
sion presidents  abroad  in  the  earth.  I 
rejoice  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is 
being  shed  forth  upon  His  people  and 
that  they  are  being  made  glad  because 
of  its  effulgence.     I  feel  that  there  is 
an  abiding  growth  with  the  members 
of  the  Church;  that  those  active  and 
interested  in   the  work    are  growing 
stronger  and  more  firmly  fixed  in  the 
faith;   that  the  Church  and  kingdom 
of  God   has   been   established   in  the 
earth  never  to  be  thrown  down  or  given 
Ho  another  people.     I  feel  grateful  that 
it  has  been  my  lot  and  privilege  to  be 
born  and    reared     in    Zion;  that  the 
Lord  has  given  unto  me  a  good  pa- 
rentage;  that  my  father  devoted  his 
life,  time  and  talents,  as  well  as  his 
means,  to  the  building  up  of  the  king- 
dom of  God;  that    he  was  willing  to 


make  sacrifices  for  the  Gospel's  sake. 
Though  the  world  may  consider  as  a 
sacrifice  what  he  did,  yet  it  was  no 
sacrifice  to  him. 

I  feel  to  testify  to  the  words  of  my 
brethren,  that  those  that  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings  will  be  blessed 
of  the  Lord.  The  blessings  of 
heaven  are  more  to  us  than  the  bless- 
ings of  the  earth.  My  admonition 
to  the  people  lately  has  been  not  to 
measure  the  blessings  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  by  dollars  and  cents.  If 
adversity  comes  upon  us,  as  it  has  in 
our  section  of  the  country,  on  account 
of  the  continued  drouth,  and  we  are 
short  in  our  crops,  we  should  not  at- 
tribute the  shortage  to  a  curse  of  the 
Lord;  but,  rather,  we  should  feel  grate- 
ful to  the  Lord  for  the  Gospel  and  for 
the  many  blessings  that  we  enjoy.  1 
feel  that  the  hand  of  God  is  over  us 
when  we  are  chastened  and  reduced  in 
our  jonditions,  for  then  we  are  more 
humble  and  prayerful  and  devoted  to 
the  work  of  God. 

I  feel  proud  of  the  little  stake  of 
Zion  over  which  it  has  been  my  lot  to 
preside,  Four  years  ago  this  month  my 
father  met  with  an  accident,  and  gave 
up  the  ghost  shortly  afterwards.  Not 
long  after  I  was  called  to  preside  over 
the  stake.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  wt 
have  had  pleasure  in  our  work  there. 
Now,  Brother  Moses  W.  Taylor  has  told 
you  of  the  goodness  of  the  people  of  his 
stake  and  of  the  valor  of  the  men  that 
are  associated  with  him.  I  can  testify 
to  like  conditions  in  the  Juab  stake.  I 
do  not  know  of  two  better  men  in  the 
whole  stake  than  those  who  are  asso- 
ciated with  me  as  my  counselors;  and  I 
can  say  the  same  as  to  the  High  Coun. 
cil.  We  are  all  united,  and  are  paying 
our  tithes  and  keeping  the  "Word  of 
"Wisdom.  The  auxiliary  organizations 
of  the  stake  have  never  been  in  a  bet- 
ter condition  than  they  are  new  in. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  and  is  a  Prophet  of 
God.  I  do  not  know  this  simply  be- 
cause my  parents  have  told  me  so  or 
taught  me  this,  as  President  Ben  E. 
Rich,  of  the  Southern  States  mission, 
said  yesterday,  but  I  know  it  through 
that  Spirit  that  comes  from  above,  to 
which  we  are  all  entitled,  providing,  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  MORRELL. 


43 


course,  that  we  are  living-  right.  I 
testify  to  you  in  all  soberness,  recog- 
nizing that  I  will  have  to  meet  my  tes- 
timony before  the  judgment  bar  of 
God,  yet  I  testify  that,  as  I  knew  tht, 
sun  would  rise  this  morning  when  1 
saw  the  danvn  of  day  approaching  ovet 
the  eastern  horizon,  so  do  I  know  that 
the  Savior  is  coming.  The  Lord  has 
said  that  He  would  come  and  dwell 
with  His  people  a  thousand  years  and 
instruct  them  in  His  word,  and  that  it 
would  be  a  reign  of  peace.  I  kno-w 
these  conditions  are  coming;  the  Spirit 
of  God,  through  the  voice  of  inspiration, 
distills  on  my  soul  this  great  truth.  1 
feel  to  rejoice  that  the  Lord  has  given 
me  this  testimony,  which  came  to  me 
•as  a  shaft  of  light,  filling  my  whole 
being  and  fastening  me  to  the  rock  of 
truth.  May  God  enable  us  to  endure  to 
the  end  and  receive  His  blessings,  is 
my  prayer,  in  the  name  .of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  MORRELL. 
(President  of  Cache  Stake.) 

I  have  only  one  desire,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  standing  before  you  at 
this  time,  and  that  is  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  direct  me  in  what  I  shall 
say,  that  we  may  be  mutually  edified. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
which  I  bear  to  you  this  afternoon.  I 
have  always  taken  pleasure  in  uphold- 
ing and  sustaining  the  testimony  that 
God  has  given  me  that  Joseph  Smith  ib 
a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  was 
raised  up  in  these  latter  days  to  bring 
forth  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  ot 
times,  and  that  he  was  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God  in  bringing  forth 
those  principles  that  are  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  What  desires  1 
have  had  so  far  in  life  have  been  swal- 
lowed up  in  the  testimony  that  I  have 
received  of  the  goodness  of  my  Hea- 
venly Father  to  me.I  have  been  willing, 
in  my  ■weak  way,  to  answer  the  callss 
that  have  been  made  of  me,  and  there- 
lore   am  I  here  this  afternoon. 

In  lisiening  to  the  testimonies  thai 
were  borne  this  morning,  I  was  think- 
ing over  xhe  changes  that  had  taken 
place  in  the  Cache  Stake  of  Zion  since 
I  have  been  connected  with  it.  Our 


stake  ustd  to  be  about  the  largest  in 
the  Church,  extending  from  Paradise, 
in  the  south,  to  Cardston,  Canada,  in 
the  north;  but,  piece  by  piece  it  has 
been  divided  up,  and  new  stakes  form- 
ed. To  jay  our  stake  is  about  ten  miles 
long  and  eight  or  nine  miles  wide.  But 
if  our  stake  is  small  it  is  pretty  thick- 
ly settled,  and  the  people  are  good. 
They  desire  to  do  what  they  can  to  as- 
sist in  building  up  the  kingdom  of  our 
Father  upon  the  earth.  I  can  testify 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
my  counselors,  and  the  High  Council  of 
the  stake,  and  all  the  other  authorities, 
are  faithful  and  energetic  men.  Our 
stake  has  contributed  some  of  its  best 
young  men  to  assist  in  building  up 
other  stakes  of  Zion.  Two  of  the 
brethren  who  spoke  this  morning 
were  reared  in  our  stake.  They 
are  now  presidents  of  other 
stakes  of  Zion.  The  land  has 
been  taken  up  and  so  utilized  that, 
in  the  past,  it  has  been  hard  for  our 
young  men  to  get  a  home  in  our  sec- 
tion of  the  country,  as  under  the  con- 
ditions that  prevailed  then  it  required 
quite  a  large  farm  to  bring  in  anything. 
But,  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
we  now  have  a  sugar  factory  and  the 
land  can  be  utilized  to  greater  advan- 
tage and  profit,  and,  in  consequence,  we 
are  enabled  to  keep  our  boys  and  girls 
at  home.  The  girls  go  out  in  the  field 
and  help  with  the  beets,  which  I  think 
is  a  great  blessing  to  them,  as  they  can 
thus  get  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  exer- 
cise. They  are  growing  up  puny;  they 
are  not  as  strong  as  their  mothers 
were,  who  bore  the  heat  and  burden  of 
the  day.  It  will  be  a  good  thing  for 
them  to  get  out  a  little  instead  of  sit- 
ting so  much  in  the  house. 

We  have  no  very  rich  people  in  our 
Stake,  as  the  farms  are  small;  but  some 
of  the  Saints  are  quite  well  to  do. 
Since  the  beginning  the  land  has  been 
divided  into  small  parcels,  and  there  is 
not  much  chance  for  any  one  to  own 
large  tracts  of  land,  as  our  Stake  is  so 
small.  The  last  few  years  we  have 
taken  hold  of  manufacturing  a  little, 
as  well  as  the  raising  of  beets,  and  we 
have  so  divided  our  interests  that  if  we 
should  fail  in  one  pursuit  we  would 
have  another  to  fall  back  on. 


44 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


We  have  continually  counseled  the 
people  to  keep  out  of  debt.  It  has  been 
our  experience,  in  associating-  among 
the  people,  and  in  our  own  lives,  that 
if  we  can  get  a  few  dollars  ahead,  and 
pay  the  tithing  on  it,  and  thus  get  the 
blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father  to  at- 
tend our  investments,  that  that  money 
went  much  farther  than  the  money  we 
borrowed,  upon  which  we  had  to  pay  a 
high  rate  of  interest.  It  nas  been  truth- 
fully said  here  this  afternoon  that 
money  and  the  accumulation  of  wealth 
is  not  the  only  blessing  that  God  has 
in  store  for  us.  He  has  said  that  if  we 
neglect  to  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings 
our  names  will  be  taken  from  the  rec- 
ords of  the  Church,  and  the  names  of 
our  children  as  well.  I  would  rather  lose 
every  dollar  and  every  piece  of  prop- 
erty that  I  possess  than  to  have  this 
calamity  come  upon  me.  Christ  gave 
this  parable  unto  His  Disciples: 

"The  ground  of  a  certain  rich  man 
brought  forth  plentifully: 

"And  he  thought  within  himself,  say- 
ing, What  shall  I  do,  because  I  have  nc 
room  where  to  bestow  my  fruits? 

"And  he  said,  This  will  I  do:  I  will 
pull  down  my  barns,  and  build  greater, 
and  there  will  I  bestow  all  my  fruits 
and  my  goods. 

"And  I  will  say  to  my  soul,  Soul,  thou 
bast  much  goods  laid  up  for  many 
years;  take  thine  ease,  eat,  drink,  and 
be  merry. 

"But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  foo1 
this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  required  of 
thee:  Then  whose  shall  those  things 
be,  which  thou  hast  provided? 

"So  is  he  that  layeth  up  treasure  for 
himself,  and  is  not  rich  toward  God." 

I  feel  well,  my  brethren  and  sister  •. 
I  do  not  know  what  I  ever  did  that  the 
Lord  should  be  so  kind  to  me.  I  have 
Leen  a  weak  instrument  in  His  hands 
and  have  endeavored  to  put  my  trust  in 
Him.  I  pray  that  His  Spirit  may  be 
with  us  all,  that  in  the  end  we  may  be 
saved  in  His  kingdom.  Amen. 

ELDER  'GEORGE  C.  PARKINSON, 

(President  of  Oneida  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  lis- 
tened with  much  pleasure  to  the  re  ■ 
marks  of  the  brethren  during  this  con- 


ference. I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of 
my  brethren,  and  that  I  have  the  privi- 
Tege  of  associating  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  at  these  meetings. 

The  Oneida  Stake  is  located  in  the 
northern  part  of  Cache  Valley,  in  the 
State  of  Idaho.  It  was  organized  over 
eighteen  years  ago,  with  eleven  wards 
and  about  3,000  souls.  Since  that  time 
many  changes  have  taken  place.  The 
people  increased  in  number  as  the  pos 
Abilities  of  the  country  became  better 
known.  We  had  a  large  tract  of 
:and,  and  as  the  country  was  built  up 
other  wards  were  organized  and  several 
new  Stakes  were  made.  As  the  Stake 
exists  today  we  have  seventeen  wards 
a  id  a  population  of  about  6,000  Latter 
oay  Saints.  The  presidency  of  the 
Stake  are  united  and  are  laboring  in 
hf  rmony  with  each  other.  The  mem- 
bers of  the  High  Council  of  the  Stake 
are  good  men.  They  all  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  I  think,  and  are  devoting 
their  time  and  attention  to  the  minis- 
try. They  meet  once  a  month,  as  a 
High  Council,  and  attend  to  any  busi- 
ness that  may  come  before  them.  Most 
of  them  visit  the  various  wards  of  the 
Stake  on  Sundays,  and  also  on  othe'* 
days,  keeping  up  the  organizations  anJ 
encouraging  the  Saints  in  the  work  of 
The  Lord.  I  believe  the  wards  are  all 
thoroughly  organized,  and  that  the 
Bishops  and  their  Counselors  are  all 
ifood,  exemplary  men,  actively  engaged 
in  the  midst  of  the  people.  We  try  'o 
impress  upon  them  the  necessity  of 
looking  after  those  bearing  the  Lesser 
Priesthood,  that  they  might  be  trained 
and  prepared  for  higher  and  greater  re- 
sponsibilities as  they  grow  in  years  and 
faithfulness.  I  believe  the  quorums  of 
lhe  Priesthood  are  pretty  well  taken 
care  of.  Of  course,  we  also  have  some 
who  are  negligent  and  careless,  as  m^y 
be  found  in  other  Stakes  and  organiza- 
t.ons  of  the  Church.  Our  Seven- 
ties are  nearly  all  active  men, 
engaged  in  the  ministry.  We  ca!l 
them  into  service  as  home  mission 
aries,  to  labor  with  the  Elders  and 
High  Priests,  in  connection  with  the 
members  of  the  High  Council  of  the 
Stake,  and  they  are  seeking  to  edify 
the  Saints  and  to  encourage  them  in 
their  duties. 


ELDER  GEORGE  J.  CANNON. 


45 


I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
the  testimony  which  the  Lord  has  giv- 
en to  me.  I  know  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son  and  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  and 
that  he  was  raised  up  of  God  to  estab- 
lish the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the 
earth  for  the  last  time.  He  delivered 
the  message,  and  it  has  gone  forth  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  it  shall  be 
proclaimed  to  all  nations,  kindreds, 
tongues  and  peoples  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth.  I  know  that  Brigham  Young 
was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  was 
raised  up  to  lead  the  people  of  God 
from  the  land  of  their  persecutions  and 
drivings  to  this  promised  place  in  the 
tops  of  the  mountains,  according  to  the 
will  of  God,  made  known  through  His 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  also  have  a 
testimony  that  John  Taylor  was  a 
Prophet  of  the  Lord,  loved  of  God,  and 
that  he  labored  devotedly  in  the  minis- 
try for  the  establishment  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  I  can  bear  the  same  tes- 
timony as  to  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff and  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  who 
were  good  and  noble  men,  and  Prophets 
of  God.  I  know  that,  today,  we  have 
to  preside  over  the  Church  as  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator,  a  noble  son  of  God, 
one  recognized  of  the  Lord  as  His  ser- 
vant to  preside  over  His  Church  in  all 
the  world;  that  these  brethren  who  are 
associated  with  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  the  Apostles,  whose  labors  call 
them  to  the  several  Stakes  of  Zion  and 
the  different  parts  of  the  earth,  are  the 
servants  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  they 
enjoy  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Spir- 
it, and  that  they  are  special  witnesses, 
traveling  among  the  people  and  bear- 
ing a  faithful  testimony  to  the  divinity 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord  as  restored 
and  established  in  our  day. 

My  desire  is  to  go  onward  and  up- 
ward, and  to  do  what  little  1  may  be 
able  to  do,  under  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty.  I  desire  not  to  grow  weary 
or  to  become  discouraged,  but  I  feel  like 
lifting  up  my  voice  in  defense  of  the 
truth  and  the  establishment  of  right- 
eousness in  the  midst  of  the  people. 

I  am  associated  with  a  good  people, 
who  are  devoted  to  the  work  of  the 


Lord.  We  have  an  excellent  school  in 
our  midst,  at  which  within  a  month 
from  now,  perhaps,  we  will  have  about 
fifty  young  men  engaged  in  the  mis- 
sionary class,  preparing  to  go  into  the 
world  and  proclaim  the  Gospel.  We 
have  organized  our  auxiliary  associ- 
ations, and  they  are  presided  over  by 
men  and  women  who  are  devoted  to 
the  work  in  which  they  are  engaged. 

In  listening  to  the  testimonies  of 
Apostles  Smoot  and  Woodruff  this 
morning  my  heart  warmed  within  my 
bosom,  and  I  thank  God  for  such  men. 
I  thank  Him  that  His  inspiration  has 
been  poured  out,  and  is  now  being 
poured  out,  upon  these  young  men,  who 
have  been  called  to  this  active  posi- 
tion in  the  ministry.  They  are  men  of 
God,  and  I  know  it.  I  have  associated 
with  them  to  quite  an  extent  during 
the  past  few  years,  and  I  know  that 
they  are  true,  genuine,  and  faithful, 
and  that  they  live  in  the  love  and  con- 
fidence of  God,  and  that  His  blessings 
are  following  their  ministrations  in  the 
midst  of  the  people.  May  God  bless 
them,  and  all  who  are  engaged  in  His 
glorious  cause,  that  it  may  spread 
abroad  through  the  earth;  that  the 
honest  in  heart  may  be  gathered  out 
and  assembled  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains and  in  other  places  appointed  of 
the  Lord  for  the  gathering  of  His  peo- 
ple, is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Brother  and  Sister  Ferrin  of  Ogden 
sang  a  duet. 


ELDER  GEORGE  J.  CANNON. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  was 
a  great  surprise  to  me  when  Brother 
Woodruff  called  out  my  name;  it  was 
the  last  thing  I  expected.  Neverthe- 
less, I  can  testify  to  you,  as  I  have  to 
my  brethren  and  sisters  and  others, 
when  the  opportunity  has  presented  it- 
self, that  I  know  that  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  again,  and  that  we  are  the  recip- 
ients of  its  blessings.  Before  leaving 
for  my  mission  to  Germany,  I,  with  the 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rest,  received  instructions,  and  we  were 
told  that  if  we  could  not  say  anything 
else  in  arising  to  speak  to  the  people, 
we  were  to  bear  our  testimonies  and 
something  would  come  to  us.  There- 
fore, in  addressing  you  this  afternoon 
I  begin  with  bearing  my  testimony.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  a  testi- 
mony, and  have  always  had  it,  that  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  If  we 
take  the  scriptures  and  compare  the 
Gospel  taught  therein  with  the  Gospel 
taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
find  that  they  are  the  same;  that  the 
Gospel  taught  by  the  Savior  and 
His  disciples  in  former  days  is 
identical  with  that  taught  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Those  of  us  who 
have  had  the  privilege  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  in  the  world  have  had  numerous 
testimonies  given  to  us,  which  have 
strengthened  us  in  the  testimony  that 
we  already  possessed.  I  believe  there 
is  not  a  young  man  who  goes  out  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel  that 
does  not  possess  a  testimony,  although 
he  may  say  he  does  not  have  one.  He 
may  not  be  aware  of  the  fact,  but  the 
testimony  is  there  just  the  same;  it 
is  born  in  him  and  only  needs  some- 
thing to  bring  it  out.  We  find  that 
our  young  men,  some  of  whom  may 
have  been  careless  at  home,  when  they 
have  reached  their  missionary  field 
and,  perhaps,  have  been  put  in  charge 
of  some  branch,  or  placed  to  preside 
over  a  conference,  and  are  obliged  to 
explain  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and 
to  study  them,  are  surprised  and  as- 
tonished to  learn  that  they  have  had 
a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  but  did  not 
know  it.  I  would  advise  the  young 
brethren  and  sisters  to  become  ac- 
quainted with  this  testimony  before 
they  go  on  their  missions,  because 
they  will  then  be  just  that  much  fur- 
ther ahead,  and  they  will  be  better 
prepared  to  explain  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel.  We  are  told,  in  the  130th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
a  passage  that  I  love  to  quote,  that 
"Whatever  principles  of  intelligence  we 
attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with 
us  in  the  resurrection; 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowl- 
edge and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence    and  obedience 


than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the 
advantage  in  the  world  to  come. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are 
predicated; 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

This  should  be  an  encouragement  to 
us  as  Latter-day  Saints — that  through 
our  obedience  in  this  life,if  we  are  more 
industrious  and  studious  than  another 
in  seeking  knowledge,  we  will  have  that 
much  the  advantage  of  him  in  the 
world  to  come.  I  trust  that  we,  es- 
pecially the  young  and  rising  genera- 
tion, upon  whose  shoulders  the  further- 
ance of  the  kingdom  of  God,  rests,  will 
sense  and  appreciate  the  importance 
of  this  principle,  and  that,  through  our 
diligence,  we  will  advance  to  a  high  de=*- 
gree  of  perfection. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  will  rest  upon  us.  I  testi- 
fy to  you  in  all  soberness  and  humility 
that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of 
God,  and  that,  if  we  are  faithful  in  the 
performance  of  our  duties,  He  will 
bless  us.  I  can  testify  that  the  law 
of  tithing  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
are  true  principles.  I  have  always  ob- 
served the  former  principle,  and  have 
also  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  I  was 
taught  to  do  so  by  my  parents,  and  I 
appreciate  the  blessings  to  be  derived 
therefrom,  for  I  have  experienced  them. 
May  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther rest  upon  us  all,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

How  to  get  out  of  debt — Economy  a  righteous 
principle — Admonition  to  save  wheat. 

Perhaps  the  greater  number  of  the 
people  here  this  afternoon  were  in  the 
Tabernacle  this  mottling,  when  I  spoke 
upon  the  subject  of  keeping  out  of  debt. 
Since  that  meeting  a  brother  has  asked 
me  how  to  keep  out  of  debt,  and  there 
may  be  quite  a  number  of  this  congre- 
gation that  would  like  to  ask  the  same 
question.  Brethren  and  sisters,  I  can 
tell  you  in  a  few  words  how  to  get  out, 
and  how  to  keep  out  of  debt;  it  is  in- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


47 


deed  simple  and  is  this:  Stop  the  waste 
that  so  many  people  are  practising-, 
save  a  little  every  day  from  your  earn- 
ings, and  it  will  not  be  long  until  you 
are  out  of  debt,  and  if  you  will  do  this 
you  will  never  get  into  debt.  I  consid- 
er it  is  a  sin  in  the  sight  of  God  to 
waste  anything  that  He  has  created, 
either  in  its  original  state  or  changed 
by  the  labor  of  man.  The  uld  saying 
"Waste  not,  want  not,"  is  just  as  true 
today  as  it  ever  was.  It  is  gratifying 
to  read  the  history  of  the  different  na- 
tions and  learn  that  many  great  men, 
by  their  personal  examples  and  lives, 
demonstrated  that  they  were  enemies 
to  waste  in  every  form.  In  reading  of 
Dante,  who  was  the  most  radical 
against  waste  in  his  day,  we  find  that 
he  classifies  the  spendthrift  in  the  same 
circle  as  the  miser,  thinking  the  mirer 
would  surely  go  to  hell  and  the  spend- 
thrift would  be  his  close  neighoor. 
Dante  had  the  Middle  Age  idea  of  hell, 
not  knowing  the  limited  number  of 
crimes  that  will  keep  a  man  there 
eternally.  By  revelation,  we  know  that 
the  only  crimes  man  will  be  placed  in 
hell  for  is  committing  the  unpardonable 
sin,  knowing  the  Christ  and  then  deny- 
ing Him;  or  shedding  innocent  blood. 

Man  never  will  go  to  hell  for  saving 
means,  even  if  miserly.  No  man  ever 
lived  that  looked  more  carefully  into 
household  expenses  than  did  George 
Washington,  the  father  of  our  country. 
Many  of  his  servants  thought  him 
penurious,  and  that  he  should  give  at- 
tention to  greater  matters,  not  be  look- 
ing after  small  things  and  petty  sav- 
ings. My  brethren  and  sisters,  there 
are  many  who  look  upon  a  man  that 
saves  as  stingy,  and  think  that  he  is 
thus  doing  a  wrong,  but  I  assure  you 
that  is  not  true.  I  have  always  insist- 
ed that  under  all  circumstances  and 
conditions  economy  is  necessary.  You 
will  find  that  it  is  necessary  in  every 
condition  of  life,  whether  the  man  be 
a  millionaire  or  the  humblest  and  poor- 
est soul  that  walks  the  face  of  the 
earth;  economy,  not  in  dollars  and  cents 
only,  but  it  also  relates  to  the  use  of 
time,  one  of  God's  gifts  that  He  will 
hold  us  all  responsible  for.  Watch  ev- 
ery expenditure,  and  see  that  nothing 
is  wasted.   I  remember  reading  an  inci- 


dent in  the  life  of  Carlyle,  the  man  who 
said  he  overcame  the  two  jailors  of  the 
human  family — "low  birth  and  an  iron 
fortune," — proving  that  he  was  indeed 
an  economist.  One  day  he  was  cross- 
ing a  street  in  one  of  the  large  cities  of 
Scotland,  with  a  companion,  and  stoop- 
ing down  picked  something  from  the 
mud.  He  stepped  to  the  sidewalk,  ai;d 
brushed  the  mud  from  a  piece  of  bread, 
laid  it  on  the  curb,  remarking  to  his 
friend  that  it  might  do  a  dog  or  bird 
some  good.  ,  I  want  to  say,  my  brethi-:n 
and  sisters,  that  the  great  Scotchman 
was  an  enemy  to  waste,  and  his  life 
was  an  example  of  economy.  He  was 
taught  by  his  mother  never  to  waste  a 
crumb  of  bread,  said  he,  "mother  im- 
pressed me  with  the  fact  that  bread 
was  to  man  what  the  mind  is  to  the 
soul."  I  am  indeed  thankful  that  the 
mother  who  gave  me  birth  taught  r.  >e 
that  principle,  and  I  earnestly  wish 
that  every  Latter-day  Saint  had  it  im- 
pressed upon  them  so  they  will  prac- 
tise economy  in  their  lives.  Not  long 
ago  I  was  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
and  a  young  man  complained  to  me 
how  hard  it  was  to  get  along  financial- 
ly. He  asked  me  to  go  home  with  him 
to  dinner.  I  did  so.  On  going  co  the 
back  of  his  residence  after  dinner,  I 
found  enough  good  food  thrown  into  a 
swill-barrel  to  feed  another  family;  and 
yet  he  was  wondering  why  he  could  not 
make  ends  meet. 

In  the  early  days  of  Utah,  the  voice 
•of  President  Brigham  Young  rang  out 
warning  the  people  to  be  saving,  and 
not  waste  anything  that  God  in  His 
goodness  had  given  them.  I  say  the 
same  to  you,  with  all  my  heart;  and  I 
wish  our  people  would  stop  and  think 
about  it,  and  use  the  intellect  that  God 
has  given  them.  I  tell  you,  if  they 
would  do  this  there  would  be  less  suf- 
fering from  poverty  among  us.  I  was 
in  the  north  a  couple  of  weeks  ago, 
and  saw  trainloads  of  wheat  being 
shipped  from  the  state.  What  does  this 
mean?  It  means,  if  not  stopped,  that  a 
great  portion  of  the  amount  of  wheat 
being  shipped  at  the  present  time  may 
have  to  be  brought  back  into  Utah,  and 
the  people  thus  have  to  pay  freight 
charges  going  out  and  coming  in,  and 
a  middleman's  profit  besides.  Farmers 


4s 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


of  Utah,  is  this  the  way  to  do?  Why, 
no!  How  often  have  we  heard  the 
Prophets  of  the  Church,  in  times  past, 
tell  the  people  to  store  their  wheat.  Just 
as  sure  as  we  live  the  time  will  come 
when  we  will  wish  we  had  followed  that 
advice,  and  stored  at  least  enough  to 
last  us  from  one  harvest  to  another. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  for  your  own 
sakes,  save  enough  wheat  and  keep  it 
on  hand  so  that  we  can  have  bread 
stuff  in  case  of  any  unforeseen  contin- 
gency that  may  arise. 

Suppose  a  great  strike  had  occurred 
on  all  the  railroads  of  the  United 
States  last  year,  every  wheel  tied  up, 
and  every  avenue  for  carrying  freight 
to  this  intermountain  country  had  been 
stopped,  either  by  strike  or  through  any 
other  cause,  in  what  condition  would  we 
have  been?  Do  you  know  that  flour 
and  wheat  were  shipped  last  year  into 
Sanpete  county,  once  called  the  gran- 
ary of  Utah?  Do  you  think  that  such  a 
thing  could  have  happened  if  the  Saints 
were  following  the  advice  of  the  Proph- 
ets of  God?  No,  never!  I  ask  the  peo- 
ple to  remember  this,  for  I  tell  you,  in 
the  name  of  J.esus  Christ,  you  will  see 
the  wisdom  of  it  some  day.  God  wants 
His  people  to  be  prepared  for  the  com- 
ing judgments.  Peace  be  to  you  all,  1 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF, 

Blessing-i  In  disguise — Dogo.nl  to  all  mankind. — 
Forbearance  to  the  Ignorant  and  wayward. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters.  I 
tried  to  handle  a  subject  this  morning 
in  five  minutes,  and  there  are  about  two 
minutes  left  this  afternoon.  I  wish  to 
say  just  a  few  words,  and  I  will  try 
to  get  through  in  time  for  us  to  get  out 
of  here  by  4  o'clock.  I  not  only  believe 
in  beginning  our  meetings  on  time,  but 
in  quitt'.og  on  time  as  well. 

Many  sections  of  the  country  nvhere 
our  people  are  located  have  been  suf- 
fering greatly  through  drouth  during 
the  past  few  years.  I  have  thought  over 
this  condition  a  great  deal,  and  have 
come  to  the  conclusion  that,  for  my 
part,  I  feel  to  thank  God  for  the  drouth 
as  well  as  for  the  many  blessings  which 
He  tends  to  us  that  are  not  in  disguise. 
If  it  had  not  been  for  the  grasshoppers, 


crickets  and  drouth  in  early  days  the 
Latter-day  Saints  would  have  been 
crowded  out  of  their  strongholds  and 
places  by  those  who  would  have  de- 
sired to  locate  in  our  communities. 
Now,  I  can  see  the  hand  of  God  even 
in  these  trials,  which  come  to  us  as 
blessings  in  disguise.  Those  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  have  faith  in  God  will 
outwear  the  drouth  and  live  to  see 
their  lands  become  fruitful,  while  those 
who  are  weak-kneed,  who  possess  little 
faith,  will  be  driven  out  by  the  drouth. 
Only  those  who  are  true  to  God  and 
determined,  through  their  faithfulness, 
to  call  down  His  blessings  upon  them, 
will  bf  there  to  see  conditions  change 
and  their  land  become  fruitful  again; 
for  it  will  become  fruitful  again  just 
as  sure  as  the  Lord  lives. 

Now.  our  mission,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  to  all  mankind.  We  have  heard 
much  good  instruction  during  this  con- 
ference, and  it  will  be  of  great  benefit 
to  us  if  we  will  put  it  into  practice. 
Let  us  not  be  selfish  and  feel  that  it 
is  our  duty  to  devote  our  life  and  time 
to  our  immediate  family  circle  and  our 
friends  and  favorites  only.  We,  as 
Saints  of  God,  who  have  received  the 
Gospel  of  +he  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  must 
be  broad  enough  to  let  our  life  extend 
to  all  mankind.  It  does  not  lessen  that 
Avhich  we  have  to  bestow  upon  our  fam- 
ily and  loved  ones  to  extend  a  hand 
to  all  mankind,  to  those  who  are  not 
of  our  faith;  for  there  are  many  hon- 
orable men  and  women  who  have  not 
been  abie  to  see  as  you  and  I  see.  There 
is  a  place  for  every  one.  There 
is  a  place  for  the  young  people  who 
have  been  born  of  Latter-day  Saint 
parentage  who  have  no  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a 
mistake,  when  we  see  young  men  and 
young  women  who  do  not  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truth,  to  point  them  out 
and  say.  or  feel,  that  they  have  com- 
mitted some  moral  evil  and,  as  a  con- 
sequence, have  no  testimony  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God.  Those  who  possess  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  have  reason  t.o 
be  thankfdl  indeed,  for  what  a  glori- 
ous thing  it  is.  and  how  unhappy  and 
uneasy  are  those  who  do  not  possess 
such  a  testimony  and  who  are  in  doubt 
regarding  the  Gospel  and  the  existence 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


49 


of  God  and  the  atoning  blood  of  oui 
Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ.  We 
may  fell  thankful,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  we  have  this  testimony,  and 
we  ought  not  to  point  our  fingers  at 
those  who  have  no  testimony  and  feel 
that  they  are  to  be  condemned  on  this 
account.  Probably  the  circumstances 
of  their  rearing  differed  from  ours; 
probably  the  Gospel  has  never  been 
presented  to  them  with  such  force  and 
spirit  and  in  such  plainness  as  it  was 
to  us.  I  realize  that  the  Lord  told  His 
liEciples  to  go  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature, 
and  that  those  who  would  repent  and 
be  baptized  r-hould  be  saved,  and  those 
who  believed  not  should  be  damned; 
but  it  is  the  Lord's  business  to  damn 
5r  to  bless  His  sons  and  daughters  and 
lot  mine  or  yours.  The  Lord  has 
commanded  this  people  to  forgive  all 
nen  for  their  trespasses,  and  He  would 
iorgive  whomsoever  He  would.  Re- 
nember  this  in  your  troubles  and  dif- 
iculties  in  your  dealings  with  your  fel- 
owmen. 

May  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and 
)f  this  meeting  go  with  you  to  the 
lomes  of  the  Saints,  and  may  we  be 
nore  determined  to  serve  God  and  keep 
His  commandments;  I  ask  it  in  the 
lame  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "But  in  the  last  days 
t  will  come  to  pass." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Nephi  L.  Morris. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem:  "The 
mountain  of  the  Lord's  house." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Hugh  S.  Gowans, 
president  of  Tooele  Stake. 

The  anthem,  "Praise  the  Lord,  all  ye 
nations,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

ATords  inspired  by  the  Holy  Spirit  are  Scripture- 
Need  for  giving  heed  to  such  words— Callings 
in  the  Priesthood  must  be  magnified— Willing 
obedience. 

I  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  spirit 
)f  this  conference.  We  are  assembled 
lere,  a  mighty  host  of  Israel,  gathered 
ogether  from  all  parts  of  Zion.  We 
lave  with   us  the  First  Presidency, 


members  of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  the  presiding  Patriarch,  the 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  the  pre- 
siding Bishopric.  We  have  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  bear- 
ers of  the  lesser  Priesthood,  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  great  numbers, 
who  have  come  up  to  wait  upon  the 
Lord.  The  heathen  would  say  per- 
haps: "We  have  our  gods  before  us. 
We  can  see  and  feel  them,  and  we  fall 
down  and  worship  them.  But  where  is 
your  god?"  The  answer  is  that  our 
God  is  not  far  away,  and  certainly  He 
is  not  beyond  the  bounds  of  time  and 
space;  but  He  is  a  God  who  hath  ears 
to  hear,  eyes  to  see,  and  a  mouth  with 
which  He  can  speak  to  His  people. 

We  may  get  a  general  idea  of  the 
character  of  this  work  and  of  this  great 
general  conference  by  the  revelations 
of  God  which  have  been  given  to  us  in 
this  age  of  the  world.  Upon  one  occa- 
sion, in  speaking  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  to  Oliver  Cowdery,  the 
Lord  said: 

"If  thou  art  led  at  any  time  by  the 
Comforter  to  speak  or  teach,  or  at  all 
times  by  the  way  of  commandment  un- 
to the  church,  thou  mayest  do  it. 

"But  thou  shalt  not  write  by  way  of 
commandment,  but  by  wisdom; 

"And  vthou  shalt  not  command  him 
who  is  at  thy  head,  and  at  the  head  of 
the  church; 

"For  I  have  given  him  the  keys  of 
the  mysteries.and  the  revelations  which 
are  sealed,  until  I  shall  appoint  unto 
them  another  in  his  stead." 

Upon  another  occasion  the  Lord  said: 

"Hearken,  O  ye  my  servants!  Ye  are 
rot  sent  forth  to  be  taught,  but  to  teach 
those  things  which  have  been  put  into 
your  hands  by  the  power  of  my  spirit; 
and  ye  are  to  be  taught  from  on  high. 

"Sanctify  yourselves,  and  you  shall  be 
endowed  with  power  that  ye  may  give 
even  as  I  have  spoken." 

Again,  the  Lord  in  a  revelation  to  Or- 
son Hyde,  speaking  of  the  manner  in 
which  the  Gospel  should  be  preached  to 
the  world,  said: 

"And  behold,  and  lo,  this  is  an  en- 
sample  unto  all  those  who  were  ordained 
unto  this  Priesthood,  whose  mission  is 
appointed  unto  them  to  go  forth; 

"And  this  is  the  ensample  unto  them, 
that  they  shall  speak  as  they  are  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be 
the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation. 

"Behold,  this  is  the  promise  of  the 
Lord  unto  you,  O  ye  my  servants." 

We  can  see  by  this,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  how  great  is  the  responsibility 
resting  upon  us  in  this  important  con- 
ference. If  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  and  others  who  may  be  called 
upon,  shall  arise  before  the  congrega- 
tions of  the  Saints  and  speak  by  the 
voice  of  the  Comforter,  it  is  the  will  of 
the  Lord  unto  us,  and  we  are  in  duty 
bound  to  receive  it.  How  much  will  we 
be  benefitted  by  assembling  together? 
Just  so  far  as  we  lend  a  willing  ear  to 
the  counsels  which  are  given.  During 
the  conference  possibly  many  princi- 
ples of  interest  and  importance  will  be 
touched  upon.  The  law  of  tithing  has 
been  mentioned  here;  you  may  hear 
something  further  in  relation  to  it.  Is 
there  need  of  such  instruction?  Verily 
there  is.  I  presume  there  has  not  been 
a  general  conference  convened  for  the 
last  60  years  at  which  this  principle  has 
not  been  alluded  to,  and  specific  in- 
structions given  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  grant  you  that  there  are  many  in  the 
Church  who  are  honest  with  the  Lord, 
and  who  come  up  to  the  spirit  of  the 
law;  but  there  are  many  who  do  not 
pay  a  full  tithing— many  who  sit  under 
the  voice  of  the  Priesthood,  which  is 
the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and 
go  straightway  from  the  meeting  or  the 
conference  and  fail  to  give  heed  there- 
to. It  may  be  that  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom will  be  touched  upon,  and  the  im- 
portance of  its  observance  set  before 
the  people.  Is  there  need  of  this?  Will 
somebody  ask  why  is  this  principle 
again  spoken  of.  Verily,  it  is  not  the 
word  of  man;  it  is  the  word  of  God  to 
His  people;  and  so  long  as  it  goes  un- 
observed by  any  number  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  there  is  need  to  speak  of  it. 
It  may  be  that  a  word  or  two  of  coun- 
sel will  be  given  in  relation  to  magnify- 
ing the  Priesthood.  Is  there  need  of 
such  word?  I  ask  the  High  Priests. 
Seventies,  Elders,  and  the  lesser  Priest- 
hood, is  there  need  of  something  being 
said  concerning  the  authority  and  pow- 
er and  sacred  character  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood?  You  know  that  there  are 
many  who  disregard  the  Priesthood; 


many  who  fail  to  attend  their  quorum 
meetings,  and  consequently  fail  to  catch 
the  spirit  of  the  Priesthood.  Only  about 
fifty  per  cent  of  those  who  bear  the 
Priesthood  are  faithful  in  attending 
their  quorum  meetings,  which  have 
been  appointed  by  the  Lord,  under  the 
counsel  and  direction  of  the  First  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church.  The  brethren  of 
these  various  orders  of  the  Priesthood 
should  meet  together  often,  to  bear 
testimony  one  to  another  and  to  be  in- 
structed in  their  duties,  that  they  may 
exercise  this  sacred  power  for  the  salva- 
tion of  souls.  If  any  man  or  woman 
enters  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
God,  it  will  be  by  and  through  the  au- 
thority of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  If  we 
do  not  hold  that  Priesthood,  and  mag- 
nify it,  we  cannot  pass  by  the  angels 
and  the  gods.  It  may  be  that  a  few 
words  will  be  said  by  some  of  the 
speakers  in  relation  to  the  quorums  of 
the  lesser  Priesthood.  Words  of  in- 
struction were  given  last  night  relative 
to  them.  The  orders  of  the  lesser 
Priesthood  are  v_ery  necessary  and  im- 
portant in  the  Church,  very  needful  to 
its  welfare,  and  placed  there  by  the  God 
of  heaven.  This  is  the  Church  of  God, 
not  our  Church,  and  who  are  we 
that  we  shall  rise  up  and  say  that  these 
quorums  of  the  lesser  Priesthood  are 
unnecessary,  and  that  we  have  too 
much  Priesthood?  It  is  God  who  has 
established  the  Priesthood,  and  set  its 
bounds  and  limits.  Something  may  be 
said  in  relation  to  the  acting  Teachers 
of  the  Church,  who  are  called  to  act 
as  Teachers  in  the  lesser  Priesthood. 
The  ordained  Teachers  are  usually 
young  men  from  fourteen  to  eighteen 
or  perhaps  twenty  years  of  age,  who 
are  not  of  themselves  quite  qualified  to 
go  out  and  teach  the  families  of  the 
Saints?  Hence  men  are  called  to  be 
acting  Teachers,  whose  duty  it  is  to 
take  these  young  men  with  them  in 
their  visits  to  the  people,  that  they 
may  gain  experience  and  become  quali- 
fied to  perform  the  functions  of  their 
office.  If  there  is  any  duty  neglected  in 
the  Priesthood,  I  think  you  will  find  it 
among  the  acting  Teachers  of  this 
Church,  who  in  many  places  fail  to 
meet  this  responsibility. 

There  has  been  no  lack  of  instruction 
and   counsel,   from   the   days   of  thi 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


51 


Prophet  Joseph  Smith  until  the  present 
time.  Twice  a  year  in  these  general 
conferences,  four  times  a  year  in  the 
Stake  conferences,  once  a  year  in  the 
ward  conferences,  and  then  in  the 
Sacrament  meetings,  the  Priesthood 
meetings,  and  on  other  occasions,  in- 
struction, full  and  complete,  covering 
the  whole  field,  has  been  given  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  But  I  often  think 
that  some  of  us  are  like  the  people  of 
ancient  Israel— we  are  slow  to  hearken 
to  the  voice  of  the  Lord.  We  acknowl- 
edge His  hand;  we  admit  the  import- 
ance of  these  things,  and  see  the  ne- 
cessity of  them:  but  in  many  cases  fail 
to  carry  out  counsel,  and  thereby  lose 
the  blessing.  I  give  it  to  you  as  my 
candid  judgment  that  the  great  suc- 
cess which  attended  the  ministry  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  due  to  His  strict  obe- 
dience to  the  will  of  the  Father.  I 
fancy  that  He  sought  to  teach  that  les- 
son in  all  His  life— almost  by  every 
word  He  spoke  and  everything  He  did. 
He  was  constanly  striving  to  impress 
upon  His  disciples  that  He  came  not  to 
do  His  own  will,  but  the  #.ill  of  the 
Father  who  sent  Him.  Do  you  not  re- 
member that  even  at  the  age  of  twelve, 
when  but  a  lad,  upon  one  occasion  he 
was  separated  from  his  parents.  They 
searched  for  him  with  great  anxiety, 
and  finally  discovered  him  in  the  temple 
at  Jerusalem,  disputing  with  the 
learned  doctors.  His  parents  chided 
Him  for  what  appeared  to  them  an  act 
of  disobedience  in  leaving  them  with- 
out their  knowledge,  and  He  turned 
and  said,  "Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be 
about  my  Father's  business?"  Even 
at  that  tender  age  the  spirit  of  obedi- 
ence manifested  itself,  and  He  gave 
His  earthly  parents  to  understand  that 
He  was  there  to  do  the  will  of  the  Fath- 
er. When  He  came  to  the  waters  of 
Jordan  to  be  baptized,  John  the  Baptist 
forbade  Him,  feeling  that  he  was  not 
worthy  to  baptize  the  Savior.  The  Sav- 
ior said,  "Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for 
thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  right- 
eousness." In  other  words,  to  render 
obedience  to  the  will  of  the  Father.  He 
who  was  without  sin  and  without  guile 
went  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  when  He  came  up  out  of  the  water 
the  heavens  were  opened  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  descended  upon  Him  in  the  form 


of  a  dove;  and  a  voice  came  from  the 
heavens,  saying,  "This  Is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  Why 
was  the  Father  well  pleased?  Because 
of  His  obedience;  because  of  His  wil- 
lingness to  do  that  which  was  required, 
even  though  it  seemed  not  to  be  neces- 
sary. Again  He  was  willing  to  be  lifted 
upon  the  cross.  Did  He  not  say  to  the 
Father,  "O  my  Father,  if  it  be  possible, 
let  this  cup  pass  from  me:  nevertheless 
not  as  I  will,  but  as  Thou  wilt?"  And 
did  He  not  thus  fulfil  the  will  of  the 
Father  by  His  sufferings  on  the  cross? 
Afterwards  He  ascended  into  heaven, 
and  now  sits  upon  the  right  hand  of 
the  Father,  glorified,  the  Lord  of  life, 
the  Savior  of  the  world  a  perfect  ex- 
ample of  obedience!  And  should  we  not 
therefore  follow  His  example,  resting 
as  we  are  under  the  great  responsibility 
of  having  rceived  the  word  of  the  Lord 
in  relation  to  the  various  duties  re- 
quired at  our  hands?  How  strict  is  the 
commandment  of  God!  Are  we  not 
told  in  the  language  I  have  quoted, 
that  the  President  of  this  Church  is 
endowed  with  the  keys  of  the  myster- 
ies, and  of  the  revelations  which  are 
sealed;  but  is  there  time  at  this  confer- 
ence to  talk  upon  the  mysteries?  No; 
we  must  talk  upon  the  practical  things, 
especially  those  which  are  neglected  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Then  when  the 
next  conference  comes  we  shall  doubt- 
less have  to  talk  about  the  same  things, 
again  and  again,  because  of  our  for- 
getfulness  and  our  mortality.  The 
President  of  the  Church  holds  the  keys 
of  the  revelations  which  are  sealed. 
Have  you  forgotten,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  part  of  the  plates  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  trans- 
lated are  sealed,  to  come  forth  in  the 
due  time  of  the  Lord?  Is  this  the  due 
time  of  the  Lord?  Can  we  expect  that 
these  plates  will  be  unsealed  and  these 
mighty  revelations  brought  forth,  un- 
less we  accept  and  carry  out  in  our  lives 
the  commandments  which  have  been 
unsealed  and  transmitted  to  us  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  Book  of  Cove- 
nants, and  in  the  Holy  Bible — these 
glorious  books  which  are  before  us,  and 
which  should  receive  our  attention  and 
our  study,  that  we  may  become  ac- 
quainted with  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  and  observe  to  keep  them,  that 


52 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


we  may  prepare  ourselves  for  the 
great  revelations  which  are  to  come, 
and  which  will  come,  as  the  Lord  lives. 

I  rejoice  in  these  things.  I  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know 
that  His  hand  is  in  it,  and  that  His 
power  is  with  us.  I  have  seen  it  mani- 
fested upon  many  occasions.  I  have 
received  many  testimonies  of  the  truth 
of  this  work.  I  cannot  deny  it  and 
never  will  so  long  as  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  with  His  Spirit  and  the  power 
of  the  Priesthood.  It  is  the  work  of 
God;  and  all  who  give  heed  to  it,  and 
who  go  down  into  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism and  are  baptized  for  the  remission 
of  their  sins,  have  hands  laid  upon 
them  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  continue  faithful,  will  re- 
ceive a  knowledge  of  this  work,  and 
shall  know,  as  I  know  and  as  you  know, 
that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. May  God 
bless  you  and  prosper  you  abundantly, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

Charles  Kent  rendered,  with  excellent 
effect,  the  beautiful  hymn  of  which  the 
following  is  the  opening  verse: 

0  my  Father,  Thou  that  dwellest 
In  the  high  and  glorious  place! 

When  shall  I  regain  Thy  presence, 
And  again  behold  Thy  face? 

In  Thy  holy  habitation, 
Did  my  spirit  once  reside; 

In  my  first  primeval  childhood. 
Was  I  nurtured  near  Thy  side. 

ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 
(President  of  St.  Joseph  Stake.) 

1  rejoice  this  afternoon,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  this  opportunity,  and 
deem  it  an  honor  to  my  sacred  father's 
name  and  to  my  sacred  mother's  name. 
I  feel  it  an  honor  to  the  Indian  Terri- 
tory and  Southwestern  States  Mission, 
with  which  I  became  so  intimate,  and 
to  the  Stake  that  I  now  have  the  hon- 
or to  preside  over. 

It  takes  me  nearly  two  thousand 
miles  travel  to  visit  with  you  in  con- 
ference, and  it  is  my  pleasure  to  gain 
all  the  information  possible  to  take 
back  to  our  people  in  the  St.  Joseph 
Stake,  and  they  shall  hail  with  delight 
my  return  to  receive  the  word  of  the 
Lord  as  it  has  come  unto  us  through 
the  servants  of  God  in  these  meetings. 
I  indeed  feel  embarrassed  to  take  up 


this  valuable  time,  and  if  others  feel  as 
I  do  they  desire  to  get  the  word  from 
the  fountain  head;  but  we  do  appreci- 
ate the  recognition  of  our  Stakes  and 
Missions,  and  we  know  that  this  is  go- 
ing to  redound  to  the  good  of  the 
Church;  for  the  people  will  feel  com- 
plimented and  will  be  strengthened  in 
consequence  of  this  remembrance. 

The  St.  Joseph  Stake  of  Zion  is  situ- 
ated in  the  southeast  corner  of  Arizo- 
na, adjoining  Old  Mexico  and  New 
Mexico.  If  you  were  to  ride  across 
Arizona,  on  the  north,  from  Albu- 
querque, New  Mexico,  to  California, 
you  would  see  nothing  but  desert  and 
tops  of  mountains  among  the  timbers, 
and  on  the  south  along  the  Southern 
Pacific  railroad  nothing  but  sand  hills 
and  desert;  but  leaving  the  railroad, 
in  a  little  oasis  in  the  desert,  you  will 
find  a  happy  people,  nearly  4,000  Latter- 
day  Saints,  over  whom  I  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  presiding.  It  seems  that  the 
Lord  has  preserved  these  choice  little 
spots  in  the  desert  for  our  people.  They 
could  not  be  seen  by  the  travelers  go- 
ing to  and  from  California;  but  they 
were  found  by  our  people  who  were 
sent  by  President  Brigham  Young  in 
early  days.  I  will  here  say  that  those 
who  left  Utah  in  early  days  by  team, 
did  not  find  the  promised  land.  They 
journeyed  into  Arizona,  and,  becoming 
discouraged,  many  of  them  returned 
home.  There  were  some  who  had  cour- 
age to  remain  and  "hold  the  fort,"  and 
they  have  continued  to  increase,  until 
today  in  that  arid  district  of  Arizona 
we  have  four  good  Stakes  of  Zion. 

I  will  say  to  you  that  we  appreciate 
what  has  been  said  by  the  brethren  in 
regard  to  the  restless  condition  that 
exists  among  some  of  our  people.  There 
have  been  many  inducements  thrown 
out  by  some  of  these  northern  Stakes 
to  draw  people  thither,  and  we  ask  you 
brethren  of  these  Stakes  to  keep  your 
hands  off.  We  are  happy  and  content- 
ed down  there,  and  we  do  not  want  to 
lose  our  people.  The  trouble  is,  you  are 
drawing  away  the  financial  men,  the 
men  of  strength  and  character,  whom 
we  need  ourselves.  There  are,  how- 
ever, a  number  in  our  Stake  that  we 
would  like  you  to  have.  We  are  liv- 
ing in  a  desert.Every  foot  of  the  ground 


ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 


53 


is  sandy  desert,  and  were  it  not  for  the 
water  that  is  brought  upon  it  by  irri- 
gation, it  would  still  be  a  desert,  and 
when  the  water  is  taken  off  it  becomes 
a  desert  again.  But  it  is  one  of  the 
most  fruitful  spots  on  earth.  Possibly 
you  have  heard  some  of  my  stories 
about  big  sweet  potatoes,  the  large 
shocks  of  corn,  the  thrifty  growth  of 
trees,  and  all  that;  but  they  are  true, 
nevertheless.  While  I  was  in  St.  Paul 
this  summer,  representing  Arizona  in 
the  Trans-Mississippi  Congress,  I  had 
the  pleasure  of  telling  something  of  the 
resources  of  Arizona,  lest  those  people 
in  the  rainy  districts  might  think  they 
had  it  all.  After  I  had  told  them  that 
we  had  grown  a  sweet  potato  weighing 
37%  lbs.,  there  was  a  Missourian  yawn- 
ed, got  up  and  went  out.  You  know, 
the  Missourians  have  to  be  "shown." 
A  Texan  came  up  and  congratulated 
me,  and  said  to  the  convention,  "Texas 
has  held  the  fort  in  all  these  conven- 
tions up  to  the  present  day,  but  now 
we'll  give  it  up  to  Arizona;  we  can't 
beat  the  sweet  potato." 

We  bring  the  water  from  the  Gila 
river  and  carry  it  over  the  sandy  soil, 
and  with  the  warm  climate  we  can 
produce  anything  on  that  soil..  We 
have  already  dispensed  with  our  early 
crop  of  Irish  potatoes,  and  are  now 
eating  sweet  potatoes  from  the  same 
ground.  I  remember  a  short  time  ago 
seeing  a  beautiful  field  of  grain,  con- 
taining possibly  forty-five  bushels  to 
the  acre,  and  just  as  I  left  there  was 
good-sized  corn  standing  on  the  same 
ground. 

Now,  we  do  not  want  you  people  of 
Oregon  and  Canada  to  get  excited  and 
come  rushing  down,  for  there  is  not 
room  for  you. 

We  have  a  Latter-day  Saint  schcol 
established  in  Thatcher,  the  attendance 
sometimes  running  as  high  as  220.  They 
come  in  from  the  surrounding  country, 
and  are  trained  in  the  Gospel  as  well 
as  the  various  branches  of  education. 
It  was  my  privilege  to  be  in  tb°  1  gis- 
lature  two  years  ago,  and  while  there 
I  secured  the  passage  of  a  bill  giving 
to  the  Academy  the  National  Guard, 
and  now  we  have  the  largest  National 
Guard  in  Arizona,  and  will  get  the 
regiment  band  soon.    The  governor,  I 


want  to  say,  is  very  proud  of  his  "Mor- 
mon" boys.  Recently  it  was  my  pleas- 
ure to  visit  him  and  talk  with  him 
about  our  country.  He  wrote  me  and 
asked  me  to  go  and  see  him.  I  called 
on  him  on  my  way  home  from  St.  Paul, 
and  reported  my  trip  in  the  interests 
of  the  Territory,  and  he  was  very  much 
pleased.  He  wanted  to  know  all  about 
you  good  people,  all  about  our  organi- 
zation, etc.  He  took  me  to  dine  with 
him,  and  his  wife,  a  very  amiable  and 
nice  lady,  was  there  also.  While  there 
he  desired  me  to  get  information  from 
th  other  Stakes  of  Zion  in  Arizona  in 
regard  to  our  people,  and  I  did  so.  The 
Arizona  people  are  broadminded  and 
liberal.  They  are  not  hurt  with  religion, 
however.  We  have  no  trouble  from 
the  outside  churches.  Occasionally  a 
little  upstart  comes  in  from  the  east 
and  undertakes  to  uproot  our  people, 
but  he  can  get  no  following.  Not  leng 
ago  a  wealthy  Jew— Mr.  Solomon— af- 
ter whom  the  county  seat  is  named, 
had  some  relatives  and  friends  visit 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  they  were  kindly 
entertained  on  these  grounds.  They 
spoke  to  Mr.  Solomon,  and  he  was  very 
much  interested  and  desired  to  visit 
Zion  himslf.  They  told  him  he  must 
try  and  get  into  the  Temple,  and  he 
said  he  would  get  a  recommend  from 
President  Kimball.  Sure  enough,  he 
came  to  Thatcher  with  the  company 
and  introduced  them  to  me,  and  said, 
"Brother  Kimball,  I  want  a  recommend 
to  go  to  the  Temple."  "Well,"  said  I, 
"Brother  Solomon,  I'll  tell  you  how  you 
can  get  there.  Baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins — and  I 
know  you  need  it— will  let  you  through 
the  door.  Then  you  can  take  your 
wife  along,  if  she  will  repent,  and  you 
can  have  her  married  to  you  In  the 
right  way."  I  went  into  the  store  and 
wrote  out  a  nice  recommend  to  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow,  and  he  brought  it 
up  here,  and  President  Snow  enter- 
tained him  for  four  hours.  He  came 
back  and  bore  testimony  throughout 
our  country  concerning  the  grand  old 
gentleman  at  the  head  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church.  He  said  he  was  the 
cleanest,  nicest  man  he  ever  saw. 

Many  good  things  have  been  said  of 
us  there.    Last  winter,  while  visiting 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  Tucson,  one  of  our  largest  cities, 
Senator  Ives,  president  of  the  last  leg- 
islative council,  asked  me  to  dine  with 
him.  In  the  evening  I  joined  him  and 
his  wife,  and  after  they  had  put  their 
lovely  little  family  to  bed,  we  com- 
menced talking  upon  Mormonism.  I  saw 
they  were  interested,  and  for  four 
hours  I  explained  to  them  the  rise  of 
this  Church,  told  them  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  his  boyhood,  of  the 
establishment  of  this  work  in  the  earth, 
of  the  exodus  of  the  people  across  the 
plains,  of  their  establishment  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  and  explained  to 
them  in  detail  the  organization  of  the 
Church.  Occasionally  I  asked  them  if 
I  was  not  tiring  them  but  they  would 
say  no,  go  ahead,  Mr.  Kimball,  it  is 
immensely  interesting.  When  I  reached 
the  point  of  divine  authority,  then  the 
good  lady,  who  is  a  devoted  Catholic, 
said,  "Now,  I  have  it.  Some  time  ago 
there  were  two  Elders  left  some  tracts 
in  our  home,  and  I  told  our  Protestant 
people  that  they  were  not  in  it  a  bit 
as  far  as  authority  was  concerned,  for 
it  rested  either  with  ourselves  or  the 
Mormon  people."  I  replied,  "Yes,  that 
is  where  it  rests.  You  people  claim 
the  literal  descent,  but  we  claim  that 
the  Gospel  was  taken  from  the  earth 
and  restored  again  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith."  Thus  our  conversa- 
tion ended. 

This  is  the  principle  upon  which  we 
act  down  there;  we  treat  the  outside 
world  right,  and  they  treat  us  right. 
As  Apostle  John  Henry  Smith  said  to 
me,  "Andrew,  we  are  not  out  of  the 
woods  yet;"  and  sometimes  I  think 
that  his  policy  of  kindness  is  the  safest 
policy  to  win  friends.  I  have  not  for- 
gotten a  lesson  taught  me  by  our  ven- 
erable brother,  Apostle  Franklin  D. 
Richards,  when  I  was  in  the  Indian 
Territory  Mission.  He  said,  "Brother 
Andrew,  if  you  can  do  nothing  more 
than  to  win  friends  unto  the  Gospel  of 
Christ,  you  are  doing  a  good  work;  for 
the  honorable  of  the  earth  will  have  a 
much  better  opportunity  than  we  can 
imagine — greater  than  many  of  those 
who  have  received  the  truth  and  not 
lived  up  to  it." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  Arizona  is  all 
right.    We  have  a  song,  composed  by 


one  of  our  people,  called  "Arizona — the 
sun-kissed  land."  I  wish  now  that  I 
had  sent  it  up  here  for  Brother  Steph- 
ens to  have  the  Tabernacle  choir  sing 
it;  for  I  want  to  tell  you,  it  is  good 
enough  even  for  the  Tabernacle  choir. 
I  was  raised  in  Salt  Lake  City.  These 
dear  old  streets  and  almost  every  nook 
about  the  city  are  familiar  to  me,  and 
I  love  the  people  here  with  all  my 
heart.  My  wife's  folks  and  my  folks 
are  here.  My  wife  said  she  had  trem- 
bled all  her  life  lest  she  might  be  sent 
into  Arizona,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that 
was  my  condition,  too.  I  went  down 
there,  in  obedience  to  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  with  a  feeling  of  gloom  and  des- 
pondency hanging  over  me,  and  when 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  set  me  apart 
he  blessed  me  that  I  might  not  become 
despondent. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  since  I  have 
been  there  I  have  not  had  time  to  be 
despondent.  Arizona  is  the  sun-kissed 
land,  the  home  of  the  cactus  and  of  the 
Gila  monster.  I  am  satisfied  with  my 
home  there.  I  say,  God  bless  Ari- 
zona; God  bless  her  people.  God  bless 
those  people  that  have  had  nerve  and 
courage  enough  to  stay  down  there  and 
hold  their  homes;  and  you  people  up  in 
these  more  favored  districts,  keep  your 
hands  off.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 
(President  of  Cassia  Stake.) 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  need  not 
say  that  I  am  delighted  at  this  oppor- 
tunity of  meeting  with  you  in  another 
general  conference  of  the  Church.  For 
many  years  it  was  my  lot  to  live  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  the  place  of  my  birth, 
and  when  conferences  were  being  held 
it  was  not  an  unusual  thing  for  me 
to  be  engaged  in  the  avocation  of  life; 
but  as  time  rolled  on  and  my  place  of 
residence  has  been  changed  to  one  of 
the  remote  settlements  in  our  neigh- 
boring State,  I  have  come  to  appreciate 
the  blessings  of  the  Gospel,  and  the 
gatherings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
which  they  come  together  and  listen  to 
the  voice  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
and  receive  that  spiritual  food  which  is 
calculated  in  its  nature  to  strengthen 
and  brace  them  up. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 


55 


It  is  a  little  over  two  years  since  the 
call  came  to  me  to  remove  into  Cassia 
county,  Idaho,  the  gem  state  of  the 
Union.  I  am  thankful  to  say  to  you 
that  long  years  ago,  from  my  parents 
and  through  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty, I  was  taught  the  lesson  of 
obedience,  and  I  take  pride  today  in 
saying  that  whatever  word  has  come  to 
me  from  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  I 
have  been  willing  to  accept  it  cheerful- 
ly and  to  accomplish  the  work  intelli- 
gently, so  far  as  my  ability  would  per- 
mit. I  removed  to  the  north  and  suc- 
ceeded that  venerable  old  pioneer,  Hor- 
ton  D.  Haight,  in  the  Cassia  Stake.  I 
found  there  a  delightful  place  to  live. 
The  climate  is  similar  to  that  that  we 
have  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  district  is 
new.and  the  possibilities  of  the  country 
are  immense.  Lying  out  in  the  valley  to 
the  northwest  of  where  our  little  city 
is  situated  there  are  250,000  acres  of 
as  good  land  as  can  be  found  any- 
where outside  the  valley  of  the  Nile, 
and  all  we  require  in  that  district  is 
the  blessing  of  the  Almighty  and  more 
water.  We  are  waiting  now  for  the 
hand  of  the  artisan  and  the  mechanic, 
and  for  the  means  of  the  millionaire, 
to  come  and  assist  us  in  taking  the 
water  out  of  the  mighty  Snake  river 
and  carry  it  upon  that  vast  tract  of 
land. 

In  our  religious  work  I  feel  very 
much  encouraged.  I  think  I  can  see 
a  steady  and  constant  growth  on  the 
part  of  the  people.  In  the  labor  to 
which  I  have  been  called  I  am  abund- 
antly blessed  with  the  association  of 
two  stalwart,  faithful,  tried  and  true 
men,  Elders  John  L.  Smith  and  Wil- 
liam T.  Harper,  and  with  their  aid, 
counsel  and  encouragement  we  are  la- 
boring for  the  advancement  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  in  that  held.  We  re- 
joice in  the  thought  that  good  is  being 
done.  We  also  are  blessed  with  the 
presence  of  a  Stake  academy  in  our 
lcality.  At  the  present  time  we  have 
over  100  of  our  young  men  and  women 
enrolled  in  that  institution.and  they  are 
receiving  that  education  which  is  cal- 
culated to  prepare  them,  not  only  for 
the  duties  of  life,  but  for  the  eternity 
before  us. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I 


have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  by  our 
brethren,  and  I  have  thought  that  it 
must  be  exceedingly  discouraging  to 
our  enemies  who  have  looked  for  the 
overthrow  of  the  Gospel  from  the  day 
of  the  assassination  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  until  the  present.  When 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  among 
the  people  they  thought  he  was  the 
power  of  Mormonism,  and  they  said 
among  themselves  that  if  they  could 
destroy  him,  Mormonism  would  go 
down.  They  accomplished  their  de- 
sire, but  Mormonism  lived  and  flour- 
ished. When  President  Brigham  Young, 
that  noble  leader  of  pioneers,  came 
upon  the  scene,  and  he  led  the  people 
to  this  wilderness  and  planted  their 
feet  firmly  upon  this  land,  they  again 
thought  that  if  Brigham  Young  were 
disposed  of  Mormonism  would  die.  The 
time  came  when  that  venerable  leader 
passed  away;  still  the  Lord  had  pre- 
pared another  to  take  his  place.  Men 
have  looked  from  time  to  time  for  the 
leader  of  the  people  to  pass  away,  in 
the  hope  that  the  religion  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  would  then  come  to 
naught.  But  in  this  Conference  we 
have  seen  a  new  generation,  young  men 
of  faith,  and  of  most  promising  futures, 
upon  whose  shoulders  some  day  will 
roll  a  portion  of  the  responsibility  of 
this  great  work.  While  this  must  be 
most  encouraging  to  President  Smith 
and  his  counselors,  to  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles and  our  leading  brethren,  it  must 
be  very  discouraging  to  our  friends  who 
have  waited  and  hoped  all  these  long 
years  for  the  downfall  of  Mormonism. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us, 
and  that  He  will  inspire  us  to  be  faith- 
ful and  to  be  charitable  to  our  enemies, 
remembering  the  words  of  Malachi  the 
Frophet,  who, in  speaking  of  the  wicked 
makes  the  statement  that  the  day  will 
come  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven,  when 
all  the  proud,  and  they  that  do  wicked- 
ly, shall  be  as  stubble.  "The  day  that 
cometh  shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them 
neither  root  nor  branch."  I  think  we 
can  safely  leave  the  wicked  and  all 
their  evil  machinations  unto  the  Lord: 
for  that  day  will  most  assuredly  come 
that  shall  burn    them    up,    saith  the 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord.  "But  unto  you  that  fear  my 
name  shall  the  sun  of  righteousness 
arise  with  healing-  in  his  wings;  and  ye 
shall  go  forth,  and  grow  up  as  calves 
of  the  stall."  Therefore,  brethren  and 
sisters,  be  encouraged  in  good  works. 
Put  upon  yourselves  the  whole  armor 
of  righteousness,  do  your  duty,  yield  a 
faithful  and  implicit  obedience  to  the 
counsels  that  are  given  you  from  time 
to  time,  and  I  promise  you  today  that 
the  power  and  peace  and  blessings  of 
the  Almighty  shall  rest  upon  you; 
your  streams  shall  increase,  your  bor- 
ders shall  be  lengthened,  your  bounda- 
ries shall  be  strengthened,  and  you  will 
see  the  hand  of  the  Almighty  manifest 
in  your  deliverance  in  these  troublous 
times,  because  just  as  sure  as  the  an- 
gel has  flown  through  the  midst  of 
heaven  bearing  in  his  sacred  charge 
the  everlasting  Gospel  and  has  restored 
it  to  the  earth,  just  so  sure  are  we  liv- 
ing in  the  hour  of  God's  judgment. 
Therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  be  faithful  to  your- 
selves, and  faithful  to  the  trust  that 
has  been  reposed  in  you,  to  the  Priest- 
hood, to  the  Father  and  to  His  Son  Je- 
sus Christ,  whose  blood  was  spilled  on 
Calvary's  hill.  May  we  be  humble  and 
diligent  in  the  performance  of  every 
duty,  and  may  the  power  and  blessings 
of  the  Almighty  rest  down  upon  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord,  who  stands  at 
our  head.  May  he  be  filled  with  power, 
with  wisdom, and  with  every  gift  neces- 
sary for  his  high  and  holy  calling,  and 
may  his  brethren  who  are  associated 
with  him  constantly  hold  up  his  hands 
and  help  him  to  accomplish  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Lord.  I  ask  God  to  bless 
Israel  in  all  her  abiding  places,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  S.  R.  BENNION. 
(President  of  Uintah  Stake.) 

T  deem  it  a  great  pleasure  to  have  the 
privilege  of  assembling  in  this  place 
and  mingling  my  voice  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot, 
from  my  birth  to  the  present  time,  to 
always  be  associated  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  hope  that  it  will  ever 
be  my  lot.  I  pray  that  I  shall  enjoy 
the     Spirit     of     the     Lord  suffi- 


ciently to  enable  me  to  endure  faith- 
fully unto  the  end,  and  to  be  true  to 
the  trust  which  is  committed  to  me 
from  day  to  day.  It  is  only  by  con- 
stant labor  and  training  that  we  shall 
secure  to  ourselves  an  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  The  prize  is  not  to  those  who 
run  swift  for  a  few  years,  but  it  is  to 
those  who  will  endure  unto  the  end, 
and  I  hope  that  we  will  all  be  enabled 
to  endure  to  the  end.  I  realize  that  we 
will  be  called  upon  to  meet  trials.  Tt 
is  written  that  the  Lord  is  going  to 
have  a  tried  people.  He  will  have  a 
people  that  will  serve  Him  and  keep 
His  commandments.  Therefore,  I  look 
to  be  tried  in  all  things.  If  I  have  not 
had  trials  they  will  come  along  soon 
enough;  but  I  hope  to  be  able  to  endure 
them. 

It  is  my  pleasure  to  preside  over  tbe 
Uintah  Stake  of  Zion,  which  is  situated 
in  the  northeast  corner  of  our  fair 
state.  We  live  in  a  goodly  land.  I 
suppose  our  Heavenly  Father  design  id 
us  to  be  there.  Many  good  people  live 
in  that  Stake  of  Zion,  although  there 
are  some  who  are  restless,  wanting  lo 
go  to  the  north  or  to  the  south.  I  re- 
member a  brother  who  resided  the^e 
years  ago.  He  had  one  of  the  finest  lo- 
cations in  the  valley,  but  wanted  to  go 
down  where  Brother  Kimball  is. 
"Whether  Brother  Kimball  has  him  yat 
or  not  I  don't  know.  He  was  anxious 
to  go  where  he  could  raise  five  crops 
of  lucern  a  year.  In  our  country  he 
could  not  take  care  of  two,  so  that  I 
do  not  know  what  he  will  do  down 
there.  It  is  better  for  us  to  be  content- 
ed with  our  lot,  and  try  to  do  our  duty 
in  all  things;  and  if  we  do  this  we  will 
be. greatly  blessed  of  the  Almighty.  The 
earth  and  the  fulness  thereof  belongs 
to  the  Lord,  and  He  has  said  that  He 
will  give  it  to  whomsoever  He  will. 
He  has  promised  to  bless  His  people 
and  to  pour  out  His  spirit  upon  them, 
if  they  will  keep  His  commandments. 
I  expect  to  enjoy  every  blessing  that 
I  live  for.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  will 
enjoy  everything  he  or  she  is  entitled 
to. 

I  pray  that  peace  and  prosperity  may 
attend  the  labors  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  the  labors  of  the  servants 


ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 


57 


cf  God  who  are  directing  the  affairs 
of  His  kingdom  upon  the  earth.  I  feel 
satisfied  with  my  brethren  who  are 
placed  over  me  in  the  Holy  Priesthood 
T  am  satisfied  with  those  who  laboi 
v/ilh  me  in  the  Uintah  Stake  of  Zion — 
my  counselors,  the  High  Council,  and 
the  Bishops.  The  only  thing  that  I  am 
fearful  of  is,  am  I  doing  my  duty  from 
day  to  day?  If  I  am  not,  my  Heavenly 
Father  and  my  brethren  who  are  placed 
over  me  will  hold  me  responsible.  I 
can  bear  my  testimony  in  regard  to 
this  work.  I  know  that  it  is  of  God. 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  pro- 
phet of  God,  and  that  those  who  have 
succeeded  him  were  prophets.  I  know 
that  we  have  prophets  and  apostles  to 
l^ad  and  guide  the  affairs  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  upon  the  earth  today.  May 
God  add  His  blessing.  May  we  be 
humble  before  Him  from  day  to  day, 
is  my  desire  and  prayer  in  the  name  of 
jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 
(President  of  Granite  Stake.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  es- 
teem it  quite  an  honor  to  represent  the 
Stake  over  which  I  preside.  1  am  also 
happy  in  the  thought  that  when  they 
selected  me  to  preside  over  a  Stake  of 
Zion  they  did  not  send  me  down  to 
Arizona  to  raise  big  potatoes  or  up  to 
Canada  to  raise  large  fields  of  wheat, 
but  they  let  me  stay  right  at  home  in 
Salt  Lake  county,  almost  on  the  bor- 
ders of  Salt  Lake  City.  I  am  delighted 
to  say  that  the  people  in  our  stake  are 
a  good  people.  We  have  able  men  who 
are  endeavoring  to  live  their  religion, 
and  all  organizations  of  the  stake  are, 
I  believe,  practically  up-to-date  in  their 
work.  The  presidency  of  the  stake  has 
been  loyally  sustained  by  tne  people. 

I  was  very  much  interested  and  im- 
pressed last  night  with  the  talk  that 
Bishop  Preston  gave  to  us  in  regard  to 
the  training  of  our  youth  in  the  Les- 
ser Priesthood.  It  appears  to  me  that 
as  the  Priesthood  and  presiding  officers 
in  the  Church  we  ought  to  pay  a  little 
more  attention  to  the  proper  training  of 
our  boys  and  girls,  particularly  the 
boys  in  the  lesser  Priesthood.  I  believe 
the  future  strength  and  growth  of  this 


great  people  and  the  work  of  the  Lord 
depends  largely  upon  the  proper  train- 
ing of  our  young  people.  I  believe  that 
it  is  the  duty  of  presiding  officers  in 
the  Church  to  see  that  there  are  no 
Deacons  neglected  in  the  Church.  We 
ought  to  be  sure,  as  Bishops  of  wards, 
that  we  have  the  organizations  of  the 
Deacons'  properly  perfected.  If  we 
take  hold  of  them  at  the  right  age 
and  see  that  they  attend  their  meetings 
and  are  trained  properly  in  the  duties 
assigned  to  them,  I  believe  we  will  have 
less  trouble  to  organize  our  Teachers' 
and  our  Priests'  quorums.  I  think  we 
ought  to  begin  young  with  the  boys, 
nurse  them  along  kindly,  and  try  to 
implant  within  them  a  testimony  of 
the  faith  that  we  have  espoused.  We 
ought  to  put  them  to  work;  teach 
them  to  act  as  doorkeepers  in 
our  meeting  houses,  to  open  the  door 
when  people  come  in  and  to  act 
as  ushers  in  taking  the  people  to  their 
seats,  and  showing  them  to  the  front, 
so  that  the  late-comers  will  not  have  to 
pass  a  crowded  place  at  the  back  to 
get  to  empty  seats  in  the  front.  I  tried 
this  when  I  was  a  boy.  I  remember  that 
of  all  the  duties  I  had  to  perform  in  this 
Church,  there  is  none  that  has  given 
me  greater  pleasure  than  to  act  as  a 
Deacon.  The  Bishop  of  the  ward  where 
I  grew  up  used  to  honor  the  Deacons 
in  their  place.  We  had  to  look  after  the 
door  and  to  seat  the  people  in  their 
places.  He  honored  us  in  our  positions 
to  the  extent  that  he  expected  people 
to  conform  to  the  rules  of  the  house 
and  to  take  the  seats  we  assigned  them. 
We  had  a  trial  of  that  down  in  our 
stake  the  other  day.  We  had  a  confer- 
ence of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  and  I 
believe  it  was  one  of  the  most  profitable 
meetings  we  have  ever  neld  in  our 
stake.  In  that  meeting  we  gave  the 
boys  a  practical  illustration  of  their 
duties.  We  had  Deacons  that  had  been 
previously  trained  stationed  at  the 
door,  and  no  boy  was  allowed  to  open 
the  door.  The  door  was  opened  for  him 
very  courteously  and  nicely,  and  as  he 
stepped  in  the  vestry  a  Deacon  tapped 
him  on  the  shoulder  and  led  him  to  a 
seat  in  the  proper  place.  We  instructed 
them  that  they  were  to  take  the  seat  as- 
signed them.    We  had  places  for  our 


8 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Bishops  and  High  Councilors,  and  the 
Deacons  knew  just  where  to  take  them. 
During1  the  meeting-  one  of  our  Bishops 
came  in  late.  He  had  been  accustomed, 
I  presume,  to  take  any  kind  of  seat  he 
wanted;  but  I  had  instructed  the  Dea- 
cons that  it  would  make  no  difference 
whether  it  was  a  Bishop  or  myself,  they 
were  expected  to  assign  the  seats.  The 
Deacon  and  the  Bishop  walked  up  the 
aisle,  and  the  Deacon  had  got  clear  to 
the  stand  before  he  noticed  that  the 
Bishop  had  taken  a  seat  of  his  own 
choosing.  Then  I  had  to  get  up  and  re- 
mind the  Bishop  that  we  expected  him 
to  honor  these  boys  in  their  place.  I 
believe  we  ought  to  honor  our  Deacons, 
and  encourage  them  in  the  start,  so 
that  they  may  grow  up  to  understand 
the  duties  pertaining  to  the  Priesthood, 
and  not  have  to  wait  until  they  are 
twenty  years  of  age  and  then  have  to  be 
humiliated,  when  they  want  to  get  mar- 
ried or  something  of  the  kind,  be- 
cause they  have  to  go  through  the  order 
necessary  for  them.  I  thank  the  Lord 
we  had  a  Bishop  that  took  hold  of  me 
when  I  was  a  little  fellow  and  trained 
me  in  the  duties  pertaining  to  the  Les- 
ser Priesthood,  because  if  there  is  any 
strength  in  me  it  is  due  to  the  training 
that  I  received  when  a  little  boy.  I 
think  this  is  the  time  we  ought  to  start 
in  matters  of  this  kind. 

There  is  another  thing  that  is  lack- 
ing: at  least,  it  is  with  us.  It  seems  to 
me  that  there  ought  to  be  in  every 
ward,  where  possible,  a  quorum  of 
Priests,  a  quprum  of  Teachers,  and 
they  ought  to  be  active  in  the  perform- 
ance of  the  duties  pertaining  thereto. 
If  we  get  these  quorums  thoroughly  or- 
ganized and  attending  to  their  duties, 
we  will  not  have  much  trouble  with  act- 
ing Teachers.  The  great  trouble  is,  the 
Bishops  cannot  get  the  Teachers  to  do 
their  work;  but  if  we  get  the  boys 
started  early  and  train  them  aright,  we 
will  have  little  trouble  in  regard  to  this. 

There  is  another  matter  that  appeals 
to  me  very  strongly,  and  that  is  the 
welfare  of  the  youth  of  Israel.  I  love 
the  youth  of  Israel,  and  I  feel  that  as 
Latter-day  Saints  we  are  not  giving 
them  the  close  attention  that  we  oughi 
to  in  the  way  of  missionary  work,  and 
nurturing  them,  and  getting   them  to 


forsake  the  little  evil  practices  they  in- 
dulge in  by  holding  out  a  better  life 
and  light  unto  them.  We  are  so  busily 
engaged  in  the  duties  of  life  that  we  do 
not  stop  to  think  that  there  are  some 
who  need  an  arm  thrown  around  them. 
They  need  someone  to  love  them,  some- 
one to  nurture  them,  and  give  them  a 
chance  to  reform.  I  heard  of  a  case 
recently  that  will  illustrate  this,  of  a 
boy  who  had  lived  in  a  settlement  all 
his  life.  Nobody  had  paid  any  attention 
to  him;  they  had  taken  it  for  granted 
that  there  was  no  good  in  him.  But  a 
stranger  moved  into  the  settlement,  and 
he  liked  the  appearance  of  the  boy. 
He  put  his  arm  around  him 
and  in  kind  words  asked  him  if  he 
had  not  better  repent;  that  there  was 
a  better  chance  for  him  in  the  fold  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  than  on  the 
outside.  The  boy  turned  to  him  and 
with  tears  in  his  eyes  thanked  him  for 
the  interest  he  had  shown  in  him  by 
putting  his  arm  around  him  and  speak- 
ing kindly  to  him.  He  said,  "You  are 
the  first  man  that  ever  did  that  to  me 
in  my  life.  I  have  lived  in  this  set- 
tlement all  my  life  and  it  has  been  the 
rule  almost  to  point  the  finger  of  scorn 
at  me;  but  never  has  it  occurred  to 
any  of  them  to  come  up  and  say  a  kind 
word  as  you  have  done."  That  boy 
turned  round  and  is  now  a  faithful, hon- 
orable young  man  in  the  Church.  The 
trouble  is,  we  are  so  busy  that  we  take 
it  for  granted  that  our  boys  who  some- 
times make  mistakes  have  no  good  in 
them,  and  we  do  not  go  out  of  our  way 
to  put  our  arms  around  them  in  love 
and  teach  them  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  We  ought  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel of  Christ  at  our  firesides,  and  in 
the  homes  of  our  neighbors.  There  is 
plenty  of  opportunity  in  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
and  to  bring  the  wayward  back  again 
into  the  fold  of  Christ.  Here  is  op- 
portunity for  all  of  us:  Blessed  is  the 
father  and  blessed  is  the  mother  whose 
family  is  all  around  them  and  living 
their  religion,  and  making  no  mistakes! 
That  father  ought  to  rejoice  that  he 
has  such  a  family,  and  he  ought  to  feel 
warm  towards  the  less  fortunate  father 
who  has  a  family  that  he  has  no  con- 
trol over.     He  ought  to  put  his  arm 


ELDER  MATHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


59 


around  his  neighbor's  children,  and 
with  the  talent  he  has  exercised  in  con- 
trolling his  own  family  try  to  use  an 
influence  with  them.  Do  not  let  the 
boys  go  to  the  four  winds,  simply  for 
the  lack  of  doing  our  duty  in  this  re- 
gard. I  have  said  it  before  and  I 
will  repeat  it  here,  that  lots  of  us  will 
go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  without  asking 
any  questions.  "We  will  have  door  af- 
ter door  slammed  in  our  face;  and  if 
opportunity  will  present  so  that  we 
can  pour  into  the  ears  of  the  people 
the  good  things  of  the  Gospel  we  are 
delighted.  After  awhile,  if  we  can 
lead  them  down  into  the  waters 
of  baptism,  we  rejoice  exceedingly  that 
we  have  converted  someone.  We  do 
not  specially  ask  them  about  their  past 
or  what  they  have  been  doing.  All  we 
ask  of  them  is  to  repent  of  their  sins, 
go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  have  hands  laid  upon  them  for  the 
reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Yet  oft- 
times  we  will  come  back  home  and  we 
would  not  cross  the  road  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  some  of  our  young  boys  right 
here.  I  believe  I  will  be  safe  in  saying 
that  if  we  would  expend  one-tenth  of 
the  energy  and  time  and  means,  one- 
tenth  of  the  patience  and  love,  that  we 
give  to  the  children  of  the  world,  in 
the  interest  of  our  own  wayward  boys 
at  home,  we  would  save  many  more 
souls.  We  could  love  our  boys  more 
than  we  do;  we  could  have  more  pa- 
tience with  our  girls  than  we  do  have. 
We  could  spend  more  time  around  our 
own  firesides,  teaching  the  children  the 
principles  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  in- 
stead of  going  after  the  things  of  the 
world  and  letting  the  boys  go  to  the 
winds.  As  fathers  and  mothers,  we 
ought  to  be  more  careful  in  regard  to 
the  rearing  of  our  youth.  We  should 
make  home  the  most  pleasant  place 
that  the  boy  or  girl  can  find  in  this 
whole  world.  It  ought  to  be  the  cen- 
ter of  attraction  to  every  child.  We 
should  make  it  so  attractive  by  our 
kindness,  our  love,  and  all  necessary 
conveniences,  that  they  will  love  it  bet- 
ter than  any  other  place.  I  believe  it 
would  do  good  sometimes  to  sell  a  calf 
or  a  horse  in  order  to  place  good  books 
in  the  home  for  our  boys  and  girls  to 


read.  Subscribe  for  the  works  of  the 
Church,  so  that  they  can  read  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  and  have  them  im- 
planted in  their  hearts.  Then  let  us 
take  some  time  to  sit  down  by  the  fire- 
side with  them  and  explain  unto  them 
the  Gospel. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  love  the  youth 
of  Israel.  I  know  that  there  is  good  in 
them.  If  the  coal  looks  dead,  it  reeds 
someone  to  blow  the  bellows  to  bring  it 
back  to  life  again.  I  have  found  boys 
who  have  been  looked  upon  as  no  good 
and  practically  dead,  but  with  nursing 
and  effort  that  coal  has  been  brought 
back  to  life.  And  what  happiness 
comes  into  the  home  when  a  wayward 
son  turns  over  a  new  leaf  and  becomes 
a  good,  upright  Latter-day  Saint!  I  re- 
joice in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
bear  my  testimony  to  its  truth.  I  know 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  the  proph- 
et that  we  have  presiding  over  us  today 
is  a  man  of  God,  and  sets  an  example 
in  his  family  that  is  worthy  of  all  Is- 
rael.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  MATHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

Difficulties  to  be  settled  privately,  If  possible — 
Presiding  authorities  should  not  be  appealed 
to  unnecessarily — Honor  every  man  in  his 
position. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
very  much  in  the  teachings  of  this  con- 
ference, and  in  the  way  that  President 
Smith  has  been  led  to  conduct  the  con- 
ference. I  would  like  to  say  to  the 
Bishops  that  it  is  a  good  example  for 
you  to  follow.  It  is  impossible  for  the 
work  of  the  Lord  to  be  carried  on  by 
the  intelligence  of  man,  or  by  any  pre- 
meditated arrangement  carried  out  in 
a  mechanical  way.  As  the  President  of 
the  Church  has  been  led  to  conduct  our 
conference,  so  ought  every  Stake  Pres- 
ident to  conduct  his  Stake  conference, 
and  every  Bishop  to  conduct  his  ward 
conference,  as  well  as  his  meetings  in 
general.  I  do  not  mean  by  that  that 
you  should  follow  it  in  mechanical  de- 
tail, but  that  you  should  follow  the 
whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  for  this 
is  what  has  been  done  during  this  con- 
ference, as  it  has  no  doubt  in  the  con- 
ferences of  the  past. 


60 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


We  rejoice  to  hear  the  testimonies  of 
our  brethren  who  preside  over  the 
Stakes.  I  rejoice  to  be  associated  with 
men  such  as  they  are;  and  if  I  were 
as  sure  of  my  salvation  as  I  am  of  the 
salvation  of  such  men  as  have  stood 
before  us  this  afternoon,  I  would  be 
exceedingly  delighted.  They  are  men 
of  God,  and  we  who  live  in  the  Stakes 
of  Zion  ought  to  look  to  these  men  for 
counsel,  and  not,  when  we  have  diffi- 
culties to  settle,  always  run  to  one  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  or  to  one  of  the 
presiding  Council  of  Seventies,  when 
they  are  in  the  Stake.  We  ought  to 
settle  our  troubles  right  in  the  Ward 
where  they  occur,  and  there  ought  to 
be  a  more  strict  observance  of  the  law 
of  God  in  regard  to  the  adjustment  of 
difficulties.  Where  there  are  differences 
between  brethren  and  sisters,  they 
ought  to  try  and  settle  them  in  the  way 
indicated  by  the  Savior — between  them- 
selves, in  the  spirit  of  prayer;  not  with 
a  determination  to  show  how  wrong 
your  brother  is,  but  in  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  seek  to  be  reconciled  with 
your  brother.  If  this  will  not  accom- 
plish it,  then  call  in  the  Teachers  of 
the  Ward,  and  let  them  act  as  peace- 
makers; for  blessed  are  the  peacemak- 
ers. And  when  the  Teachers  find  a 
difficulty  in  a  family,  they  have  no  bus- 
iness to  tell  it  to  anybody  else  or  to 
circulate  it  on  the  streets.  They  ought 
to  guard  such  things  with  the  utmost 
sacredness. 

The  Lord  has  laid  down  His  law  on 
this  subject,  as  well  as  on  all  other 
subjects  affecting  the  welfare  of  the 
Church.  In  Section  42  of  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  it  is  written: 

"And  if  thy  brother  or  sister  offend 
thee,  thou  shalt  take  him  or  her  be- 
tween him  or  her  and  thee  alone;  and 
if  he  or  she  confess,  thou  shalt  be  rec- 
onciled." 

That  is,  it  shall  not  be  harped  upon 
or  talked  about  after  it  has  been  set- 
tled. Every  man  ought  to  esteem  him- 
self as  put  upon  honor,  after  a  difficulty 
is  settled,  not  to  stir  it  up  or  resur- 
rect it  among  the  people  of  God,  but 
let  it  be  settled  forever.  When  Teach- 
ers find  difficulties  existing  in  families 
that  they  can  settle  without  reporting 
them  to  the  Bishop,  it  is  not  a  duty  in 


the  sight  of  God  that  the  Bishop  even 
should  know  of  them.  In  fact,  I  do  not 
suppose  the  Bishop  wants  to  know  the 
failings  of  the  people,  if  they  can  be 
rectified  without  his  knowledge.  The 
Lord  has  laid  down  the  doctrine  that 
the  confession  shall  be  as  broad  as  the 
offense.  If  I  offend  my  brother,  I  must 
make  it  right  with  my  brother;  and  it 
is  hypocrisy  to  go  and  ask  the  forgive- 
ness of  God  until  I  have  become  recon- 
ciled with  and  made  restitution  to  my 
brother.   The  Lord  says:> 

"If  any  one  offend  openly,  he  or  she 
shall  be  rebuked  openly,  that  he  or  she 
may  be  ashamed.  And  if  he  or  she  con- 
fess not,  he  or  she  shall  be  delivered  up 
unto  the  law  of  God. 

"If  any  shall  offend  in  secret,  he  or 
she  shall  be  rebuked  in  secret,  that  he 
or  she  may  have  opportunity  to  confess 
in  secret  to  him  or  her  whom  he  or  she 
has  offended,  and  to  God,  that  the 
Church  may  not  speak  reproachfully  of 
him  or  her." 

The  object  is  to  save  people;  to 
make  it  as  easy  as  possible  for  them 
to  repent  and  to  make  restitution  for 
their  wrong;  not  to  circulate  the  story 
of  their  wrongdoing  and  create  a  pub- 
lic scandal,  but  to  have  it  settled  ac- 
cording to  the  law  of  God. 

In  another  revelation,  the  Lord  says: 

"It  always  has  been  given  to  the  El- 
ders of  my  Church  from  the  beginning, 
and  ever  shall  be,  to  conduct  all  meet- 
ings as  they  are  directed  and  guided  by 
the  Holy  Spirit." 

This  is  the  law  of  God  to  every 
Bishop,  to  every  stake  president,  and 
to  the  president  of  every  quorum  or 
association  in  the  Church.  They  are 
to  be  guided  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  Thia 
conference  has  been  exceedingly  inter- 
esting  because  it  has  been  conducted 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  through  the 
man  who  presides  over  us  on  this  oc- 
casion. I  may  say  that  it  is  the  most 
Interesting  conference  of  the  Church 
that  I  ever  attended. 

Another  thing:  The  Lord  certainly 
placed  prophets  and  apostles,  evangel- 
ists, pastors  and  teachers  in  the 
Church,  as  Paul  describes,  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry  and  for  the  edifying  of 
the  body  of  Christ;  but  He  has  placed 
the  Bishops  and  the  authorities  of  the 
stakes  in  the  Church  for  the  perfecting 
of  the  Saints,  just  as  much  as  the 
Apostles,  or  the  Council  of  Seventies, 


ELDER  MATHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


61 


or  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  or  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church,  who  stand  at  the 
head;  and  there  ought  to  be  an  im- 
provement in  all  the  stakes  in  regard 
to  the  adjustment  of  all  matters  af- 
fecting the  salvation  of  the  Saints  of 
God  in  the  respective  stakes.  I  sup- 
pose that  the  President  of  the  Church 
gets  bushels  of  letters  written  by  men 
and  women  who,  disregarding  the 
Bishop  and  the  presidency  of  the  stake, 
go  over  the  heads  of  those  officers  in 
order  to  lay  their  cases  before  the  Pres- 
ident or  to  ask  questions  of  him,  some 
of  which  are  of  the  most  foolish  char- 
acter. This  is  all  wrong.  I  want  to 
advise  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  settle 
these  questions  at  home  just  as  far  as 
possible.  When  the  Priesthood  of  God 
is  trusted  by  the  people,  there  will  be 
a  greater  measure  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  attending  the  ministrations  of  oui 
Bishops  and  stake  presidents  through- 
out the  Church.  I  do  not  believe  that 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  are  un- 
der any  obligation  to  do  those  things 
that  ought  to  be  done  by  the  local  au- 
thority, and  I  do  not  knew  that  they 
have  any  promise  of  being  blessed  of 
the  Lord  in  doing  work  that  ought  to 
be  done  by  the  Bishops  and  presidents 
of  stakes.  I  am  impressed  with  this, 
because  I  have  been  asked  in  various 
stakes  of  Zion  a  great  many  questions 
that  could  easily  be  answered  by  the 
Bishop  of  the  ward,  and  I  have  been 
appealed  to  to  seUH  difficulties  that 
ought  to  be  settled  easily  right  at  home. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  should  under- 
stand this  and  feel  the  responsibility  of 
it.  The  Priesthood  of  God  is  the  repre- 
sentation of  God,  if  you  please,  in  th& 
earth.  It  is  not  man's  personal  in- 
dividuality that  we  honor,  but  it  is  tht 
authority  of  God  which  he  holds.  God 
has  established  His  work  upon  thu 
earth,  and  He  has  appointed  men  to  be 
the  recipients  of  His  holy  will  and, 
through  their  administration,  to  voice 
that  will  unto  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  Savior  said  to  His  disciples,  "H*» 
that  receiveth  you  receiveth  me;  and 
he  that  despiseth  you  despiseth  me; 
and  he  that  despiseth  me  despiseth  Him 
that  sent  me."  When  this  principle  is 
understood  and  properly  carried  out, 
there  will  be  more  of  the  power  of  God 


in  the  midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
there  will  be  a  stronger  bond  of  union 
among  them,  and  there  will  be  greater 
and  more  effective  work  accomplished 
throughout  the  stakes  and  wards  by 
the  local  Priesthood.  I  »wish  to  say  to 
every  man  in  the  Church,  young  and 
old,  that  the  greatest  desire  of  his  heart 
should  be  to  honor  the  office  in  the 
Priesthood  which  he  holds,  and  not 
have  constantly  in  his  mind  the  great- 
ness of  somebody  else's  calling.  It  is 
all  the  authority  of  God,  the  one  Priest- 
hood, and  it  cannot  be  parted  asun- 
der. The  High  Priest  holds  the  Mel- 
chisedek  Priesthood  ;the  Seventy  holdb 
the  same,  just  as  the  Apostle  does,  and 
he  is  entitled  to  the  power  of  God  in 
his  ministrations  among  the  people.  1 
have  heard  President  Woodruff  say 
many  times  that  he  never  enjoyed  mora 
of  the  Spirit  of  God  than  he  did  when 
he  was  a  Priest,  preaching  the  Gospel, 
I  believe,  in  Arkansas.  It  was  the  same 
with  John  the  Baptist,  and  with 
Philip;  they  enjoyed  the  spirit  and 
power  of  Almighty  God,  and  yet  they 
officiated  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  We 
are  entitled  to  the  same  blessing  if  we 
live  for  it.  I  think  it  would  be  a 
good  thing  if  every  Bishop  would  call 
together  all  the  Priesthood  in  his  Ward, 
and  would  select  from  the  High  Priests, 
the  Seventies  and  the  Elders  enough 
men  to  act  in  the  capacity  of  Priests.  I 
have  enquired  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
where  I  have  traveled,  about  a  quorum 
of  Priests  and  have  found  but  few.  Yet 
the  Lord  has  laid  down  that  as  one  of 
the  offices  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood, 
and  has  specificially  stated  that  they 
are  the  ministers  of  the  Gospel  unto 
the  people. 

We  had  instructions  here  last  night 
by  President  Smith  concerning  our  re- 
sponsibility to  the  authorities  of  Wards 
and  Stakes.  I  have  been  taught  this 
doctrine  all  my  life.  I  was  born  and 
raised  on  the  same  block  as  Brother 
Frank  Y.  Taylor  and  Brother  John  W. 
Taylor,  and  I  used  to  act  in  the  ca- 
pacity of  a  Teacher  in  the  home  of 
President  John  Taylor.  I  was  not  very 
well  qualified,  it  is  true.  I  believe  the 
only  qualification  I  had  was  a  willing 
spirit  and  an  obedient  heart;  but  the 
Lord  blessed  me  in  my  labors.  When- 


62 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ever  we  entered  into  the  house  of  Pres- 
ident Taylor  as  Teachers,  he  laid  aside 
all  other  things  that  were  demanding 
his  attention, and  he  would  call  his  fam- 
ily together,  sit  down  with  us,  and  hear 
what  we  had  to  say.  On  one  occasion 
a  young  man,  who  was  asked  to  ques- 
tion President  Taylor  in  regard  to  the 
performance  of  his  duties  as  a  member 
of  the  Church,  said  he  did  not  want  to. 
Why  not?  Because,  said  he,  he  is  a  so 
much  better  and  greater  man  than  we 
are.  President  Taylor  told  him  it  was 
his  duty  to  question  him.  "Why,"  said 
the  young  man,  "I  don't  think  you 
would  hold  the  office  that  you  do  if 
you  did  not  perform  your  duty  as  a 
member  of  the  Church."  The  President 
replied,  "It  is  your  duty  to  find  out 


whether  I  do  my  duty  as  a  member  or 
not;  whether  I  teach  my  children  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  pay  my 
tithing,  and  attend  to  my  family  and 
my  secret  prayers." 

The  more  men  know  about  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  the  more  they  respect  it. 
I  say  to  the  people,  seek  unto  the 
Priesthood  of  God,  and  let  wizards,  nec- 
romancers, hypnotists,  spiritualists  and 
all  such  things  alone;  for  within  the 
Church  of  God  there  is  all  sufficient  for 
our  salvation  in  this  life  and  our  exal- 
tation in  the  life  to  come.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Rouse,  all  ye  mor- 
tals." 

Eenediction  by  Presiding  Patriarch 
John  Smith. 


THIRD  DAY. 


IN  THE  TABERNACLE. 
MONDAY,  OCT.  6,  10  A.  M. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Do  what  is  right;  the  day  dawn  la 
breaking. 

Hailing  a  future  of  freedom  and  light. 
Angels  above  us  are  silent  notes  taking 
Of  every  action;  do  what  is  right! 

Opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  E.  Taylor,  counselor  in  the  pre- 
sidency of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell, 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 

Then  shall  we  know  and  taste  and  feel 
The  Joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

Remarkable  development  of  the  Lord's  work — The 
elements  tempered,  and  tbe  land  blessed — 
Continued  Improvement  essential  —  Import- 
ance of  the  teacher's  calling— Evils  of  debt  and 
mort  gages. 

The  meetings  of  the  conference  thus 
far  have  been  very  interesting  to  me. 
I  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of  in- 
terest to  the  reports  of  the  presidents 
of  missions  and  presidents  of  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.  We  are  here,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  be  fed  spiritually,  and  to  be 


instructed  with  regard  to  our  temporal 
duties.  Thus  far,  I  think,  we  have  all 
been  satisfied  with  the  things  that  we 
have  heard  and  the  spirit  that  has  been 
manifest.  Indeed  we  may  say  we  have 
had  a  refreshing  from  the  Lord.  We 
have  been  benefitted  and  profited  by  the 
various  subjects  that  have  been  treated 
upon.  How  vast  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord!  And  how  it  is  increasing  and 
spreading  abroad,  notwithstanding  the 
difficulties  that  have  been  thrown  in 
the  way!  When  we  look  back,  say  50 
years  (there  are  many  here,  I  suppose, 
that  can  remember  50  years  back,)  and 
observe  the  progress  that  has  been 
made  in  50  years,  it  is  wonderful  to 
contemplate.  While  in  that  time  twen- 
ty of  our  Apostles  and  Presidents  of  the 
Church  have  passed  to  the  other  side, 
yet  we  see  today  the  Church  is  stronger 
and  the  people  are  more  numerous  than 
ever  before.  There  is  more  interest  man- 
ifested in  the  forwarding  of  this  work  in 
the  earth,  than  ever  before  in  our  his- 
tory. Thus  we  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord 
manifest  towards  this  people  in  their 
growth  and  development  in  the  earth. 
What  will  be  the  growth  and  develop- 
ment in  fifty  more  years?  No  doubt 
there  are  people  here  that  will  live  to 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 


63 


see  fifty  more  years,  and  the  work  be- 
ing developed  fifty  years  hence. 

We  have  great  cause  to  give  thanks 
and  praise  to  our  heavenly  Father  for 
His  goodness  unto  us,  and  for  His  mer- 
cy in  tempering  the  elements  in  these 
high  mountain  valleys.  I  can  well  re- 
member when  it  was  said  that  certain 
valleys  in  these  mountains  would  not 
produce  the  cereals  of  the  earth,  be- 
cause of  their  altitude  and  the  frosts; 
but  this  saving  has  been  brought  to 
naught.  I  remember  very  distinctly  go- 
ing with  President  Young  on  his  first 
trip  into  the  Bear  Lake  Valley.  A 
number  in  the  company,  after  we  ar- 
rived there  and  camped,  predicted  that 
there  never  would  be  any  grain  raised 
in  Bear  Lake  Valley,  because  it  was  too 
cold.  But  we  find  that  the  Lord  tem- 
pered the  elements.  I  remember  what 
President  Young  told  them  in  the  first 
meeting.  He  said,  "You  have  come  here 
to  a  cold,  high  valley;  but  if  you  will 
stay  here  and  be  contented,  and  serve 
the  Lord,  you  will  get  rich."  He  as- 
sured them  that  they  would  be  able  to 
raise  grain;  but  if  you  cannot  raise 
grain,  said  he,  you  can  raise  hops,  and 
get  rich  raising  hops.  We  find  that 
the  elements  have  been  tempered  in 
all  the  high  valleys.  In  Cache  valley 
we  all  huddled  together,  you  know,  on 
the  low  lands.  I  remember  President 
Kimball  saying  one  time  when  he  was 
there  that  the  day  would  come  when  we 
would  want  to  crowd  up  toward  the 
mountains,  and  cultivate  the  land  on 
the  high  benches.  That  saying  is  veri- 
fied today.  Go  into  Cache  valley  and 
you  can  see  the  valley  cultivated  in 
places  almost  to  the  top  of  the  moun- 
tains, while  the  lower  part  of  the  val. 
ley  is  abandoned  to  grass. 

The  Lord  has  been  with  His  people. 
He  has  been  with  His  servants.  And  it 
has  seemed  to  me,  in  watching  the 
progress  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  as  if 
e"ery  administration  that  we  have  had 
was  a  little  stronger  than  the  previous 
one:  but  perhaps  that  is  not  the  case. 
It  may  only  be  that  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  work  of  the  Lord  new 
things  have  arisen.  The  Lord  did  not 
promise  He  would  reveal  everything 
at  once.  He  said  He  would  give  line 
upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  here  a 


little  and  there  a  little;  and  as  the  work 
of  the  Lord  develops  new  features  are 
brought  before  the  people.  Things  are 
revealed  from  time  to  time  that  were 
not  necessary  half  a  century  ago. 

Now,  taking  into  consideration  om 
condition  and  our  circumstances,  is 
there  yet  room  for  improvement  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints?  Notwithstand- 
ing the  good  reports  that  we  hear  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion,  let  me  ask, 
is  there  yet  a  chance  for  improvement 
in  the  Church  of  Christ?  Why,  thefe 
certainly  is.  We  have  not  all  come  to 
the  unity  of  the  faith  yet.  We  have 
not  all  come  to  a  perfect  understand- 
ing of  the  Gospel.  We  learn  a  little  to- 
day and  a  little  tomorrow,  advance  step 
by  step  and  keep  learning  a  little  more 
about  the  work  of  God. 

The  Lord  has  given  unto  His  people  a 
perfect  organization,  such  as  is  not 
found  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  It 
was  reported  by  somebody  since  the 
conference  commenced  that  there  werti 
no  poor  in  one  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion. 
When  I  heard  that,  I  thought  to  myself 
that  that  Stake  was  in  rather  a  bad 
condition.  The  Savior  said,  The  poor 
ye  have  always  with  you.  My  experi. 
ence  in  the  Church  has  taught  me  that 
if  no  poor  are  found  it  is  because  a 
thorough  search  has  not  been  made  in 
the  Stake;  for  I  believe  there  are  poor 
in  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  There  is  a 
certain  class  of  people  amongst  us  that 
wont  make  their  wants  known.  They 
will  suffer,  and  suffer  a  great  deal,  be- 
fore they  will  let  their  neighbors  know 
their  condition.  I  have  acted  as  a 
Bishop  for  eighteen  years  in  tbv? 
Church,  and  I  have  found  in  my  ad- 
ministration that  there  are  cases  of 
this  kind,  where  people  will  not  re- 
veal their  condition.  Such  people  have 
to  be  hunted  for;  and  then  looked  af- 
ter, by  the  Priests,  or  by  the  Teach 
ers,  or  by  somebody,  in  order  that  their 
circumstances  may  be  made  known.  I 
will  guarantee  if  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
were  searched  carefully  it  would  be 
found  that  there  are  poor  everywhere; 
not  so  extensively  perhaps  in  some 
Stakes  as  in  others,  but  there  are  poor. 
The  organization  that  the  Lord  has  giv. 
en  us  suits  the  condition  of  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  and  also  the  condi- 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


tion  of  non-members  of  the  Church,  be- 
cause they,  living  among-  us,  are  to  be 
cared  for,  are  to  be  looked  after,  and 
treated  kindly. 

I  fear  there  is  a  lack,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  with  regard  to  the  labors 
of  the  Lesser  Priesthood.    I  fear  thia 
because  I  know  from  experience  that  it 
requires  a  constant  labor  and  a  con- 
stant watchcare   on  the  part  of  the 
Bishop  to  keep  the  Lesser  Priesthood  in 
good  working  order.  Now,  every  family 
in  the  Church,   and   every  family  in 
the  district,  whether  they  are  in  the 
Church  or  not,  ought  to  be  visited.  They 
are  the  Lord's  children,  and  they  ought 
to  be  looked  after.    They  ought  to  be 
visited  at  least  once  a  month.    Can  we 
Bishops  or  Presidents  of  Stakes  say, 
and  say  truthfully,  that  the  flock  over 
which  the  Lord  has  appointed  us  to 
preside  is  visited,  cared  for,  looked  af- 
ter and  provided  for.    If  we  can,  then 
we  are  in  a  happy  condition,  and  we 
are  doing  just  what  the  Lord  wants  us 
to  do.    But  if  we  fail  in  this  import- 
ant matter,  then  it  is  time  for  us  to 
consider,    to   counsel   together  as  the 
Priesthood,     as    a     quorum     of  the 
Priesthood,   and  see  wherein   we  can 
make  our  labor  more  valuable  and  more 
profitable  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
Teachers,  you  know,  have  general  jur- 
isdiction.    The  office  of  a  Teacher  is 
an  important  one  in  the  Church.  I 
remember  once  going  as  a  Teacher  into 
the  family  of  President  Kimball,  and 
President  Kimball  was  there.  Of  course, 
being  a  boy,  I  felt  bashful,  and  ver> 
diffident  in  talking  in  the  home  of  one 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church;  but 
it  was  not  long  before  President  Kim- 
ball made  me  feel  perfectly  at  home,  to 
talk  there  just  as  I  would  to  anyone 
else,  because  of  the  spirit  and  kind- 
ness he  manifested.    He  says,  "I  want 
you  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  my  fam. 
ily.    If  you  see  anything  out  of  order, 
I   want  you   to   tell   them  about  it; 
whether  it  be  indoors  or  out-of-doors, 
tell  them  about  it;  advise  with  them 
about  it,  counsel  with  them  about  it." 
Now,  that  has  always  been  a  lesson 
to  me.    I  have  always  remembered  it. 
The  Teachers  should  advise  with  the 
people  in  regard  to  their  interests.  Not 
that  they  should  have  one  simple  rou- 


tine of  questions  to  ask  in  every  fam- 
ily; that  is  not  necessary,  and  the  Lord 
will  not  lead  you  that  way  either;  but 
He  will  lead  you  to  say  such  things  in 
each  family  as  shall  be  suitable  and 
proper.  The  Lord  will  be  with  ever> 
Teacher  if  he  is  humble  and  prayerful. 
No»w,  I  conclude,  from  my  own  ex- 
perience, thai  the  very  best  thing  in 
the  world  for  the  Teacher  to  do  before 
he  goes  out,  is  to  go  off  into  a  secret 
place,  and  tell  the  Lord  he  is  going  ouv 
in  fulfilment  of  his  duty,  to  labor  as  a 
minister  of  the  Gospel  among  the 
people.  If  you  will  do  this  in  humility, 
the  Lord  will  be  with  you  and  direct 
you  in  your  labors.  Now,  do  not  miss 
anybody  in  your  travels.  Do  not  be  in 
such  a  hurry  that  the  most  remote  fam. 
ily  in  the  district  may  not  be  visited 
and  looked  after.  You  may  feel  in  your 
hearts  that  those  people  are  no  good, 
that  they  are  not  worthy,  that  they 
wont  receive  you  kindly,  and  so  on;  but 
there  may  be  children  there,  on  whom 
your  influence  may  have  great  effect, 
and  you  cannot  afford  to  neglect  them. 
We  cannot  afford  to  neglect  our  duty  to 
these  people.  Now,  these  things  apply 
to  the  Presidency  of  the  Stake  as  well 
as  to  the  Bishopric. 

There  is  one  very  good  thing  that 
tht--  Teachers  might  talk  to  the  people 
about,  and  that  is  with  regard  to  going 
in  debt.  Some  of  our  people  have  had 
a  great  desire  to  go  in  debt,  perhaps 
for  the  purpose  of  making  as  good  a 
show  as  their  neighbors.  In  my  opin- 
ion, the  time  has  come  when  we  should 
desist  from  "going  into  debt.  We  should 
not  mortgage  our  homes.  This  is  a  sub- 
ject that  I  certainly  think  the  Teachers 
should  talk  about.  I  hope  that  it  may 
be  said  from  this  time  on  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  will  not  mortgage  their 
realty,  their  homes,  their  chattels,  or 
anything  they  have.  Under  some  cir- 
cumstances it  may  be  a  necessity;  but 
a  rule  it  is  a  bad  thing,  and  we 
ought  to  quit  it.  I  have  seen  people 
turned  out  of  their  homes,  owing  to 
tre  mortgage  being  foreclosed.  They 
have  had  to  let  it  go  for  half  its  valu^, 
because  it  is  seldom  you  can  borrow 
on  a  piece  of  property  the  full  value  of 
it,  and  in  that  way  their  hard  earningr 
are  dissipated.    Do  not  mortgage  your 


ELDER  DAVID  K.  UDALL. 


6S 


homes.  There  was  a  time  when  there 
were  no  mortgages  in  all  Utah;  but 
1t  is  not  so  today.  I  do  not  suppose 
there  is  a  Stake  of  Zion  that  is  now 
free  from  it.  It  is  time,  therefore,  that 
we  began  to  seriously  consider  our  con- 
dition, and  cease  going  in  debt.  Let  us 
pay  off  our  mortgages  and  our  obliga- 
tions as  fast  as  possible;  and  the  quick- 
est and  easiest  way  to  do  it  is  for  every 
man  to  pay  his  tithing  and  offerings 
to  the  Lord.  For  everything  belongs 
to  the  Lord,  and  He  has  made  us  stew- 
aids  over  what  He  has  placed  in  our 
hands.  Then  let  us  pay  our  obligations 
to  the  Lord,  no  matter  what  our  neigh- 
bor may  say  about  it.  Every  man 
in  the  Church  should  pay  his  tithing, 
and  pay  it  when  he  has  it.  Do  not  put. 
off  paying  the  tithing  on  your  sum- 
mer's wage  until  the  fall,  because  that 
is  not  a  good  way.  When  you  receive 
your  monthly  salary,  pay  your  tithir.g 
right  at  the  time;  and  do  the  same 
with  whatever  you  get  from  any 
3ource.  If  you  will  do  this,  the  Lor>l 
will  open  up  your  way  and  help  you 
out  of  debt.  Let  us  make  a  resolve 
not  to  go  in  debt  any  more,  and  the 
Lord  will  assist  us  to  carry  it  out.  We 
not  only  want  to  get  out  of  debt  our- 
selves, but  we  want  to  see  the  Church 
out  of  debt,  so  that  the  hands  of  the 
Presidency  may  be  so  liberated  that 
they  can  use  whatever  means  are 
necessary  for  the  development  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  and  the  building  up 
of  Zion.  If  we  had  in  our  possession 
today  the  interest  that  we  have  paid 
on  outside  capital,  it  would  help  us 
considerably. 

Another  thing:  Let  us  not  make  too 
many  demands  upon  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church.  The  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  Bishops  of  wards  are  continually 
asking  the  Church  to  help  them  for  one 
purpose  or  another.  Bless  your  soul, 
tne  Presidency  of  the  Church  would  b= 
willing  to  help  everybody  if  they  had 
it  in  their  power;  but  it  is  not  in  their 
power  at  present.  Therefore,  if  we  have 
a  meetinghouse  to  build,  let  us  go  to 
and  build  it  without  asking  aid  from 
the  Church.  If  we  could  utilize  thv 
labor  that  is  wasted  in  all  the  Stakes 
of  Zion,  we  could  build  all  the  meeting- 
-houses we  need.    You  brethren  that 


need  meetinghouses  in  your  wards  and 
stakes,  try  and  utilize  that  labor  in 
the  building  of  them.  I  know  by  ex- 
perience that  this  can  be  done.  Then 
you  will  not  have  to  ask  the  Church  fcr 
anything. 

These  are  some  of  the  details  that 
affect  us  in  our  wards  and  stakes.  It 
would  be  a  good  thing  for  the  Bishops* 
and  Presidents  to  make  a  note  of  what 
is  said  by  the  speakers,  and  wherein 
the  remarks  fit  their  circumstances, 
apply  them.  We  are  gathered  from 
all  parts  to  get  information  and  in- 
struction, and  let  us  not  pass  these 
things  by  without  giving  heed  to  therr. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord 
It  has  done  my  soul  good  to  hear  the 
brethren  testify  that  they  knew  tikffc 
was  the  work  of  God.  It  is  not  our 
work,  but  the  Lord  has  given  us  tho 
privilege  to  take  part  in  it.  Joseph 
^mith,  the  great  prophet  of  the  last 
dispensation,  has  a  wjatchcare  over 
as  today,  just  as  he  had  while  he  wa^ 
on  the  earth;  and  he  is  not  so  very 
far  off,  either.  The  Prophet  Brigham 
also,  and  the  other  leaders  of  Israel 
who  have  gone  to  the  other  side,  are 
watching  over  the  people  of  God;  and 
let  us  not  feel  that  they  are  away, 
beyond  the  bounds  of  time  and  space, 
because  they  are  not  very  far  away. 
This  is  the  work  of  God.  Joseph  was  a 
great  prophet.  He  ushered  in  this  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times,  and 
it  is  gradually  going  forward.  It  hss 
spread  abroad  upon  the  mountains  and 
in  the  valleys,  and  will  continue  to  do 
so.  God  will  build  up  His  kingdom  and 
sustain  His  servants.  Let  us  see  to 
it  that  we  are  not  found  complaining 
or  faultfinding,  but  let  it  be  said  of  u* 
mat  we  have  sustained  the  work  of 
God  and  our  brethren.  God  bless  you, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  K.  UDALL, 
(President  of  St.  Johns  Stake.) 
I  desire  the  faith  and  prayers  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters  the  short  time  that 
I  may  stand  before  you.  I  am  not  like 
President  Andrew  Kimball,  acquaint- 
ed with  every  nook  and  corner  of  this 


66 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


beautiful  city  of  yours.  It  is  a  revela- 
tion to  me  to  behold  what  is  to  be  seen 
in  these  lovely  valleys  of  the  moun- 
tains. It  has  not  been  my  good  for- 
tune to  be  associated  intimately  with 
the  leading  authorities  of  the  Church, 
only  when  they  have  visited  our  coun- 
try. For  twenty-seven  years  I  have 
been  engaged  in  looking  after  the  in- 
terests of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  Lord's  vineyard.  It 
has  been  my  lot  to  be  on  the  frontiers, 
and  to  assist  in  building  up  the  waste 
places  of  Zion.  I  have  rejoiced  in  this 
labor,  and  have  seen  the  power  of  God 
made  manifest  on  many  occasions  in 
the  support  and  succor  that  has  come 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  new  colonies.  I  rejoice  ex- 
ceedingly in  the  testimony  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  this  is  the 
work  of  God.  I  have  known  for  many 
years  that  those  who  led  the  Church 
were  inspired  of  the  Almighty.  I  can 
remember,  in  the  days  of  my  childhood, 
when  the  little  children  went  out  to 
greet  President  Brigham  Young  as  he 
passed  through  the  settlements  of  the 
Saints.  I  recollect  how  my  heart  leap- 
ed with  joy  and  satisfaction  in  seeing 
this  great  man  and  in  listening  to  his 
words  and  the  words  of  those  who  ac- 
companied him  on  those  noted  trips. 
In  my  ministry  among  the  people  I 
have  rejoiced  in  the  teachings  and  the 
words  of  encouragement  that  have 
come  from  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
and  I  bear  my  testimony  today  that 
the  men  who  lead  Israel  are  men  of 
God,  who  have  had  and  do  have  the 
power  and  the  inspiration  to  lead  this 
people  successfully,  if  we  will  adhere 
to  their  instructions. 

I  have  had  great  pleasure  in  my  la- 
bors in  the  St.  Johns  Stake  of  Zion. 
"We  do  not  raise  these  wonderful  sweet 
potatoes  that  President  Kimball  re- 
ferred to;  but  I  will  tell  you  what  we 
do  have,  as  no  doubt  President  Kimball 
has  in  his  Stake:  we  have  a  choice  peo- 
ple in  that  land,  who  are  trying  to 
serve  God.  As  an  evidence  of  this,  we 
discover  in  all  the  wards  a  desire  on  the 
part  of  the  Bishops  and  the  Saints  gen- 
erally to  keep  up  the  organizations  that 
have  been  established  for  the  welfare 


of  the  people.  "We  are  at  peace  with 
our  neighbors.  We  have  the  Navajos  on 
one  side  of  us,  and  the  Apaches  on  the 
other;  and  in  some  places  where  our 
people  reside  there  are  Pueblo  Indians. 
"We  are  at  peace  with  these  people.  "We 
are  at  peace  with  the  territory  of  Ari- 
zona, and  I  was  very  thankful  to  listen 
to  the  remarks  of  President  Kimball 
yesterday  in  regard  to  our  treatment 
there.  I  think  it  is  due  the  people  and 
officials  of  the  territory  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
should  understand  that  we  are  treated 
nicely  and  kindly  in  the  country  in 
which  we  live.  The  conditions  sur- 
rounding us  in  the  St.  Johns  Stake  are 
rather  peculiar.  We  live  in  a  section 
of  country  where  we  are  not  favored 
with  a  railroad  passing  through  any  of 
our  settlements,  nor  a  telegraph  line. 
"Whether  these  things  are  a  blessing  or 
not  is  not  for  me  to  say,  but  we  miss 
these  opportunities  of  the  age.  We  re- 
joice, however,  that  we  have  the  same' 
privileges  in  the  Gospel  that  you  have 
who  are  more  favored  in  these  other  re- 
gards. We  have  a  people  free  from 
mortgages.  I  do  not  believe  there  is  a 
single  home  belonging  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  that  Stake  of  Zion  that 
is  under  mortgage.  Every  meeting- 
house, every  schoolhouse,  our  Academy 
building,  and  all  our  public  property, 
is  free  of  debt;  and  though  we  are  poor, 
we  rejoice  in  that  fredom.  In  our  farm- 
ing we  depend  almost  entirely  upon  res- 
ervoirs. If  my  memory  serves  me  right 
in  the  eight  wards  of  that  Stake  we 
have  fourteen  reservoirs,  constructed 
by  the  united  labor  of  the  people.  With 
a  population  of  about  1,500  in  the  Stake, 
we  have  expended  in  the  neighborhood 
of  $80,000  in  the  building  of  reservoirs, 
and  we  do  not  owe  anything  for  them. 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  having  the  privilege  occasionally  to 
come  and  visit  with  you  and  to  attend 
the  general  conferences.  I  pray  God  to 
continue  to  bless  and  prosper  His  peo- 
ple. There  is  one  thing  comes  to  my 
mind  that  I  will  refer  to.  We  have 
been  very  much  exercised  in  our  part 
of  the  country  over  our  financial  condi- 
tions. The  young  men  and  many  of  the 
fathers  and  husbands  are  under  the  ne- 


ELDER  JESSE  W.  CROSBY. 


67 


cessity  of  leaving  their  homes  to  find 
employment,  so  that  they  may  support 
their  families  in  these  dry  times  that 
we  are  passing  through.  The  thought 
has  occurred  to  us  many  times  that  if 
we  could  put  forth  the  same  energy 
and  union  in  this  direction  that  we 
manifest  in  keeping  up  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  it  would  not  he 
necessary  for  us  to  leave  home  to  find 
employment.  I  look  forward  to  the  time 
when  in  every  village  and  city  through- 
out the  land  where  the  people  of  God 
dwell,  there  will  he  industrial  estab- 
lishments, where  our  young  people  will 
he  taught  to  work  in  wood  and  iron, 
etc.,  and  by  means  of  which  we  will  be 
able  to  produce  all  that  is  necessary 
for  our  support.  How  is  it  today?  "We 
bring  in  from  abroad  that  which  we 
wear,  and  that  which  we  eat  in  some 
localities.  Nearly  everything  that  we 
need  has  to  be  imported;  at  least,  that 
has  been  the  case  with  us  for  some 
years  past,  in  consequence  of  the 
drouth.  How  it  is  that  we  can  live 
and  maintain  this  drain  upon  the  peo- 
ple is  a  mystery  to  me.  It  certainly  is 
an  evidence  that  God  is  watching  over 
us.  In  many  of  our  homes  we  see  the 
motto,  "God  will  provide,"  and  He, 
surely  has  provided  for  the  colonies  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  on  the  outskirts. 
I  bear  testimony  to  this  today.  God 
bless  this  people  and  the  leaders  of  Is- 
rael, and  may  we  be  faithful  and  true 
to  them,  as  they  are  true  and  faithful 
to  the  Church  of  Christ.is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JESSE  W.  CROSBY, 

(Of  the  Presidency  of  Big  Horn  Stake.) 

In  standing  before  you  this  morning 
and  representing  the  Big  Horn  Stake  of 
Zion — a  new  stake  that  has  been  or- 
ganized in  "Wyoming — and  in  listening 
to  the  reports  of  the  different  missions 
and  stakes,  I  feel  that  we  still  belong 
to  Zion.  The  people  of  our  stake  have 
come  from  various  parts;  some  from 
almost  every  county  in  Utah,  some  from 
Idaho,  some  from  Canada,  some  from 
Mexico.  They  have  formed  themselves 
into  a  body  of  people  there  that  are 


known  and  recognized  as  Latter-day 
Saints.  To  us  who  have  gone  there  it 
has  been  a  land  of  promise,  and  our 
gathering  is  a  fulfillment  of  prophecy; 
for  it  was  prophesied  many  years  ago 
that  the  Saints  would  locate  in  the  Big 
Horn  basin  and  become  a  flourishing 
people.  President  Young  prophesied  in 
regard  to  this,  as  did  Jesse  "W.  Fox,  the 
well  known  surveyor,  who  went  into 
that  locality  and  discovered  its  re- 
sources. We  believe  that  the  Lord  has 
held  in  reserve  portions  of  that  coun- 
try for  His  people. 

I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  say 
much  about  our  country;  in  the  due 
time  of  the  Lord  it  will  speak  for  itself. 
When  compared  with  many  places  that 
the  Saints  have  located  in,  it  is  cer- 
tainly a  goodly  land.  The  Lord  has 
heard  and  answered  the  prayers  of  His 
people  there,  and  the  success  that  has 
attended  our  labors  has  been  marvelous 
to  us,  as  well  as  to  those  who  have 
watched  our  operations.  Quite  a  num- 
ber of  eastern  people  have  tried  to  col- 
onize in  that  land,  but  have  r>een  unsuc- 
cessful in  taking  out  the  water.  They 
have  had  fto  concede  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  natural  colonizers,  be- 
cause of  the  union  that  exists  among 
them.  In  a  little  over  two  years  we 
have  opened  a  number  of  canals,  our 
biggest  canal  being  thirty-three  miles 
long,  and  costing  nearly  $100,000.00. 
The  water  was  taken  out  this  year,  go- 
ing the  full  length  of  the  ditcn,  and  on 
the  23rd  of  June  we  commenced  irri- 
gating, and  have  produced  some  crops. 
This  will  show  what  can  be  done  on 
that  soil. 

We  have  friends  in  that  land.  The 
governor  of  the  state  has  been  watching 
very  carefully  what  the  Latter-day- 
Saints  were  capable  of  doing.  He  says 
he  has  watched  us  with  more  than  per- 
sonal interest,  so  that  he  might  see 
what  could  be  done  to  make  some  of 
that  desert  land  fruitful.  Since  we 
commenced  operations,  companies  from 
the  east  and  the  west  have  started  to 
taking  out  canals.  The  officials  of  the 
state  of  Wyoming  are  treating  us  with 
all  the  courtesy  that  we  could  ask.  We 
have  come  to  regard  Governor  Richards 
as  being  unto  us  like  Joseph  was  in 


* 


68 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Egypt,  and  we  feel  very  grateful  to 
him. 

Many  of  those  who  have  gone  into 
the  Big  Horn  country  are  poor  people. 
They  had  more  labor  than  they  could 
utilize  where  they  were  living,  the 
water  resources  being  limited,  and  they 
either  had  to  work  for  someone  else  or 
go  without  employment.  They  are  now 
working  for  themselves,  opening  up 
farms  and  making  homes.  About  two 
years  ago  we  discovered  that  we  were 
going  to  be  short  of  provisions,  many 
people  having  come  in  without  sufficient 
to  hold  out  until  they  could  raise  some- 
thing. The  situation  seemed  somewhat 
serious;  but  the  Lord  openea  the  way, 
in  answer  to  fasting  and  prayer.  The 
Burlington  railroad  officials  offered  us 
contracts  on  their  road,  which  we  ac- 
cepted; and  after  fulfilling  the  contracts 
we  received  our  money,  and  utilized  it 
to  the  very  best  advantage. 

The  people,  I  believe,  are  trying  hard 
to  make  it  a  land  of  Zion,  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  thereon. 
We  have  a  God-fearing  people  there, 
who  are  trying  with  all  their  hearts  to 
serve  God,  and  to  make  the  land  a 
place  that  the  Lord  will  delight  to  bless 
because  of  the  faithfulness  of  those  who 
dwell  there. 

May  God  bless  Israel,  and  all  who 
write  and  speak  in  favor  of  Zion,  is  the 
prayer  of  your  humble  servant,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN 
(President  of  Alpine  Stake). 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  I  have  of 
meeting  with  the  Saints  at  the  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church,  to  receive  the  in- 
structions which  come  from  the  lead- 
ing brethren  of  the  Church.  I  never 
come  to  these  Conference  meetings 
without  being  fed  with  the  bread  of 
life.  1  have  shown  to  me  many  places 
in  my  character  that  are  weak,  and 
when  I  depart  from  the  Conference  I 
feel  strengthened  in  my  faith  and  in 
my  determination  to  go  forth  among 
the  people  and,  if  possible,  make  a 
greater  effort  to  accomplish  good.  I 
have  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  that 


have  been  borne  by  my  brethren.  I 
have  been  exceedingly  grateful  and  sat- 
isfied in  my  feelings  with  the  manner 
in  which  these  meetings  have  been  con- 
ducted, wherein  we  have  had  the  pri- 
vilege of  listening  to  our  brethren  from 
far  and  near  bear  their  testimony  and 
tell  of  their  work  among  the  people. 

I  have  pleasure  in  reporting  the  Al- 
pine Stake  of  Zion,  which  is  located  in 
the  north  end  of  Utah  county.  It  com- 
prises ten  wards  and  four  branches. 
The  largest  ward  numbers  about  three 
thousand  souls;  the  smallest  about  two 
hundred  and  fifty  souls.  In  the  ten 
wards  there  are  now  being  erected 
seven  meetinghouses,  one  of  which  you 
might  term  a  magnificent  tabernacle, 
which  will  cost  in  the  neighborhood  of 
$50,000  or  $60,000.  About  two  weeks  ago 
we  called  the  Bishops  and  the  High 
Council  of  the  Stake  together  and  con- 
versed with  them  upon  the  condition  of 
their  wards,  and  we  found  the  spirit 
of  harmony  existing  among  them.  On 
the  following  evening  we  called  togeth- 
er all  the  authorities  of  the  Stake,  and 
from  them  we  also  learned  that  the 
spirit  of  harmony  and  good  feeling  pre- 
vailed in  their  midst  and  with  the  peo- 
ple they  are  presiding  over.  The  presi- 
dency of  the  Stake  are  united;  the 
High  Council  are  united.  We  can  tes- 
tify that  there  is  a  good  feeling  pre- 
vailing in  the  Alpine  Stakp.  Tn  pnitf* 
of  the  outlay  of  means  in  the  erection 
of  these  meetinghouses,  we  are  pleased 
to  state  that  last  year  the  people  did 
not  fall  behind  in  their  tithes  and  of- 
ferings. All  the  organizations  of  our 
Stake  kept  a  record  of  their  doings  for 
the  year  1901,  upon  loose  leaves  which 
were  given  to  them  for  that  purpose. 
These  leaves  were  handed  in  at  the 
end  of  the  year.and  have  been  compiled 
and  bound  in  one  record,  so  that  we 
have  the  records  of  the  different  or- 
ganizations, together  with  the  minutes 
cf  the  presidency  of  the  Stake,  all  in 
one  volume.  The  presidency  of  the 
Stake  meet  every  week,  to  talk  and 
plan  for  the  welfare  of  the  people.  We 
have  counseled  our  Bishops  to  do  like- 
wise, as  well  as  the  presiding  officers 
in  the  various  organizations.  We  have 
secured  individual  tithing  cards  for 
every  member  who  paid  tithing  in  our 


ELDER  URIAH  T.  JONES. 


(59 


Stake  last  year,  which  have  been  given 
to  the  Bishops  to  present  to  each  tithe- 
payer.  The  card  has  on  it  the  amount 
of  tithing  that  the  individual  paid  last 
year,  and  it  contains  space  for  the  re- 
cording of  his  or  her  tithing  for  twenty 
years.  We  keep  duplicates  of  these 
cards  at  our  office.  From  the  testimo- 
ny of  the  Bishops  we  believe  that  this 
will  result  in  good.  Only  this  morn- 
ing one  of  the  Bishops  reported  to  us 
that  in  delivering  a  card,  the  brother 
receiving  it  said  he  felt  ashamed  of  the 
tithing  that  he  had  paid,  and  he  has 
already  paid  a  great  deal  more  tithing 
this  year  than  he  paid  during  the  whole 
of  last  year.  The  people  are  instruct- 
ed to  bring  these  tithing  cards  at  the 
time  of  settlement,  so  that  what  they 
have  paid  during  the  year  may  be 
placed  on  them. 

We  know  that  our  labors  among  the 
people  are  appreciated,  from  the  fact 
that  they  are  carrying  out  the  instruc- 
tions which  we  have  given  them.  Wa 
know  that  the  gifts  of  the  Gospel  are 
among  the  people  as  they  were  ancient- 
ly. Not  long  since  one  of  our  members 
met  with  an  accident  in  the  little  city 
of  Alpine.  A  large  hayfork  ran  in  his 
body  at  the  shoulder  to  a  depth  of 
fifteen  inches.  The  physicians  were 
called  in  to  dress  the  wound,  and  they 
declared  that  his  chances  for  living 
were  very  slim.  His  mother  received 
a  testimony  at  that  time  that  he  would 
live,  and  therefore  told  them  that  he 
would  not  die.  The  Elders  were  called 
in  to  administer  to  him,  and  in  about 
two  weeks  the  young  man  was  out 
upon  the  streets,  and  is  living  today. 
There  was  another  brother,  who  came 
to  us  to  receive  a  blessing  for  his 
speech.  He  was  of  a  stammering 
tongue.  Before  he  went  on  a  mission 
to  which  he  had  been  called.he  received 
a  blessing  at  the  hands  of  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Stake,  and  word  comes  to 
us  that  he  has  been  wonderfully  blessed 
so  that  he  is  able  to  speak  to  the  peo- 
ple in  plainness  and  without  difficulty. 
We  have  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  the 
gift  of  tongues,  the  gift  of  revelation 
and  of  great  wisdom  in  our  Stake,  and 
we  feel  to  rejoice  that  these  blessings 
are  with  the  people  today  as  they  were 
anciently.   We  also  can  testify  that  we 


know  the  Gospel  is  true,  and  that  the 
men  whom  God  has  called  to  lead  in 
the  affairs  of  the  Church  are  men  of 
God.  The  teachings  they  give  us  are 
true  and  timely.  If  we  live  up  to 
them,  they  build  us  up  in  our  faith  and 
make  us  better  men  and  women  . 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  in 
our  labors,  and  help  us  to  magnify  our 
callings,  that  our  faith  in  Him  may  be 
increased,  that  our  testimonies  may  be 
added  upon,  and  that  we  may  have 
strength  and  courage  to  perform  every 
duty  required  at  our  hands, in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  URIAH  T.  JONES, 
(President  of  Parowan  Stake.) 

In  facing  this  vast  audience  I  feel 
that  I  am  overrated;  but  I  am  very 
grateful  for  the  honor  conferred  upon 
me  in  having  the  privilege  of  repre- 
senting the  Parowan  Stake  of  Zion.  It 
is  one  of  the  oldest  stakes  in  the 
Church,  Iron  county  having  been  set- 
tled, I  believe,  in  the  fall  of  1850.  In 
the  years  1853-4  iron  works  were  start- 
ed in  that  county,  and  the  population  at 
that  time  was  about  as  numerous  as  it 
is  today.  After  the  failure  In  the  manu- 
facture of  iron,  the  number  of  inhab- 
itants was  reduced  nearly  three-fourths. 
Cedar  City  then  had  three  hundred 
families,  and  in  1856-7  there  were  only 
about  fifty  families.  We  now  have  a 
population  in  that  stake  of  a  little  up- 
wards of  four  thousand.  We  have  all 
the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church  in  fairly  good  running  order, 
and  those  who  have  charge  seem  to  be 
alive  to  their  duties.  The  tithing  of 
the  people  is  not  as  we  would  like  it  to 
be.  Of  course,  we  attribute  that,  to 
some  extent,  to  the  unusually  severe 
drouth  that  that  part  of  the  country  is 
going  through  at  the  present  time,  and 
which  we  hope  will  soon  be  broken. 
Numbers  of  our  young  men,  the  best  of 
our  communities,  are  moving  to  other 
places.  During  the  last  three  years  we 
have  been  under  the  necessity  of  or- 
ganizing the  Young  Men's  association 
three  different  times,  the  presidencies 
having  moved  to  other  places.  The 
present  prospects  are  that  our  wonder- 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ful  iron  deposits  will  be  developed.  Of 
course,  we  cannot  tell;  we  Aave  been 
fooled  so  many  times  that  it  won't  hurt 
us  if  we  get  disappointed  again;  but 
from  what  we  can  judge  at  present  the 
time  has  arrived  when  they  will  be 
developed,  and  instead  of  our  people 
moving  away  we  will  have  room  for 
many  to  move  in. 

As  I  have  said,  I  feel  it  an  honor  to 
have  the  privilege  of  standing  before 
you  for  a  few  moments  and  bearing  my 
testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  I 
pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may 
be  with  us  as  a  people,  that  we  may 
be  as  a  light  set  upon  a  bill,  that  the 
people  of  the  world,  seeing  our  good 
works,  may  be  led  to  glorify  the  name 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  In  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  D.  WHITE, 
(President  of  Beaver  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing 
before  you  here,  I  feel  as  Brother  Jones 
stated,  as  if  I  was  overrated,  although 
I  am  very  pleased  to  be  numDered  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  with  you  in  gen- 
eral conference.    I  endorse  all  the  re- 
marks that  we  have  heard  during  this 
conference.   My  testimony  is  that  they 
are  true,  and  that  they  have  been  dic- 
tated by  the  Spirit  of  God.   The  Beaver 
stake  is  in  the  southern  part  of  this 
state,  adjoining  Parowan  stake.  While 
we  have    suffered    in  the    past  from 
drouth  and  frost,  we  have  not  the  same 
reason  to  complain  that  they  have.  We 
feel  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  abun- 
dantly, because  we  have  very  fair  crops 
this  year,  and  our  prospects  are  bright. 
Beaver  City,  the  capital  of  our  county, 
is  as  nice  a  little  city  as  there  is  any- 
where.  We  may  not  have  the  rich  soil 
and  the  good  climate  that  they  have  in 
other  parts  of  the  state,  but  we  have 
as  good  water,  as  fine  streets,  and  as 
clean  a  city  as  there  is  anywhere.  We 
also  have  a  Church  school  that  we  are 
very  proud  of — a  branch  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  Academy — and  it  is  doing  a 
great  deal  towards  making  Latter-day 
Saints.    I  tell  the  people  of  Beaver  that 
the  money  invested  in  that  school  goes 


further  towards  making  Latter-day 
Saints  than  the  money  they  spend  in 
sending  their  Elders  out  into  the  world 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  although  we  have 
Elders  out  in  the  world  who  send  us 
very'  encouraging  reports  of  their  la- 
bors. In  that  school  we  have  many 
that  will  bear  testimony,  whenever  op- 
portunity affords,  that  they  have 
learned  that  the  Gospel  is  true  through 
being  taught  there.  We  think  that  we 
have  the  nicest  place  for  a  Church 
school  that  there  is  anywhere  in  the 
state.  We  have  240  acres  of  land,  and 
quite  a  number  of  buildings.  There  are 
perhaps  a  hundred  rooms  rented  at  the 
present  time  to  students  who  are  at- 
tending the  school,  and  we  have  room 
for  more.  The  school  is  increasing 
each  year.  This  is  the  fifth  year  of  its 
existence,  and  we  are  very  much  en- 
couraged with  it.  We  feel  that  the 
Lord  is  blessing  the  people  of  Beaver. 
I  bear  testimony  that  the  Gospel  is 
true.  The  Lord  has  certainly  revealed 
His  mind  and  will  to  His  children  in 
this  age  of  the  world,  and  there  is  no 
mistake  about  it. 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us,  that  we 
may  be  true  and  faithful  to  our  call- 
ings and  always  be  found  steadfast  and 
laboring  for  the  advancement  of  the 
kingdom  of  God,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  IRA  N.  HINCKLEY. 
(President  of  Millard  Stake). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  full 
of  gratitude  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
and  to  my  brethren  for  the  privilege 
of  standing  here  a  few  moments,  not- 
withstanding I  must  confess  that  I 
have  rather  shrank  from  it.  Listening 
to  my  brothers  that  are  laboring  as 
presidents  of  stakes,  seeing  the  good 
spirit  tha:  has  attended  them  and 
noting  the  good  instructions  they  have 
given  I  felt  that  if  I  should  be  called 
upon  I  might  not  be  able  to  interest 
the  people  as  much  which  will  probably 
be  true.  I  was  much  pleased  with  "he 
remarks  of  Apostle  Merrill  this  morning 
in  regard  to  the  great  improvement 
made  in  this  part  of  the  country.  I 
landed  in  this  city  in  1850.    It  was  my 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


71 


good  fortune  for  a  while  to  be  a  police- 
man on  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  I  used  to  know  where  every  in- 
dividual lived  in  the  town,  and  where 
everyone  sat  when  they  came  to  meet- 
ing. But  I  was  thinking  if  I  was 
dropped  down  with  my  eyes  blindfolded 
in  some  parts  of  this  city  now  I  would 
hardly  be  able  to  find  my  way  out,  it 
has  made  such  a  growth. 

I  feel  to  endorse  the  remarks  that 
have  been  made,  and  I  assure  you  that 
on  returning  home  I  want  to  put  into 
practice  some  of  the  things  that  have 
been  told  us,  in  which  we  are  behind 
perhaps  in  our  stake.  We  live  just  next 
to  Beaver,  and  we  border  on  to  Juab 
stake.  In  listening  I  find  out,  as  I  al- 
ways do  when  I  come  to  conference, 
that  we  are  lacking  in  some  things,  anl 
that  there  is  room  for  improvement  in 
our  stake.  I  am  pleased  with  the  oppor- 
tunity of  coming  to  headquarters  for 
the  purpose  of  learning  my  duty,  and 
I  desire  to  be  faithful  in  discharging 
it.  I  have  struggled  along  and  am  a 
member  of  the  Church  yet,  and  I  hope 
to  continue  to  the  end.  I  find  that  the 
greatest  difficulty  I  have,  under  some 
circumstances,  is  to  fellowship  myself 
from  the  crown  of  my  head  to  the  soles 
of  my  feet,  not  being  altogether  satis- 
fied at  times  that  I  have  done  my  full 
duty;  but  I  assure  you  that  I  have  been 
determined  to  do  right  although  I  may. 
not  have  been  so  strong  as  I  might  in 
fulfilling  all  that  has  been  required  of 
me.  I  am  pleased  to  note  the  improve- 
ment of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  I  have  endorsed  the 
leaders  of  Israel  all  the  day  long.  I 
have  traveled  with  this  Church  some- 
thing over  60  years  and  I  know  a  little 
about  the  people  and  the  trials  and 
hardships  we  have  gone  through;  and 
when  I  see  Zion  at  headquarters 
branching  out  over  the  hills  enjoying 
plenty,  dressing  well,  living  well,  I  feel 
to  rejoice. 

We  have  all  the  organizations  in  our 
stake  of  Zion  that  are  in  the  other 
stakes  and  they  are  in  pretty  good 
shape.  We  have  been  suffering  more 
or  less  for  three  years  from  drouth,  and 
we  have  sometimes  lost  good  citizens  on 
account  of  it,  and  sometimes  we  have 
had  some  go  that  we  are  glad  went.  I 


was  very  much  pleased  with  the  idea 
expressed  by  one  of  the  brethren,  that 
when  people  want  to  leave  a  stake  ot 
Zion  they  should  get  a  release.  I  tell 
you,  I  have  always  believed  in  standing 
to  the  rack,  hay  or  no  hay.  That  has 
been  my  motto  all  my  life  since  coming 
to  Utah.  I  have  not  been  on  preaching 
missions,  but  I  have  done  some  working 
missions.  I  love  my  brethren,  I  love 
the  leaders  of  Israel,  and  I  love  and 
fellowship  my  brethren  in  the  stake 
over  which  I  preside.  I  know  that  the 
Gospel  is  true,  and  I  pray  God  to  bles3 
us  in  all  our  walks  in  life,  that  we 
may  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder,  in 
touch  with  all  the  leaders  of  Israel 
and  in  touch  with  our  Father  in 
heaven.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

A  promise  fulfilled — Pleasure  In  preaching  the 
Gospel — The  Lord  answers  prayer — Union 
among  the  servants  of  God.  . 

I  have  been  exceedingly  interested 
during  this  conference,  and  have  re- 
flected upon  the  power  of  testimony 
that  has  been  manifested  here.  Over 
50  years  ago  I  heard  this  everlasting 
Gospel.  It  was  then  promised  to  me 
that  if  I  would  worship  the  living  and 
true  God,  repent  of  my  sins,  accept  of 
the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
o'cey  the  Gospel,  I  should  have  the 
piivilege  of  a  knowledge  that  God 
lived,  that  Jesus  was  indeed  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet 
tent  of  God,  and  that  the  signs  fol- 
lowed the  believer.  I  was  told  that  I 
had  to  believe  in  God,  the  Maker  of 
heaven  and  earth,  the  sea  and  the 
fountains  of  waters,  and  that  I  had  to 
accept  of  the  efficacy  of  the  precious 
blood  of  Christ,  which  cleanseth  from 
sin  and  sanctifieth  the  believer,  and 
then  I  should  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  Spirit  of  the  Father 
which  would  reveal  to  me  the  things  of 
God.  This  everlasting  Gospel  was 
preached  to  me  in  my  early  days.  Af- 
ter some  consideration  I  accepted  it, 
notwithstanding  it  was  so  dreadfully 
unpopular;  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
were  nicknamed  "Mormons,"  and  th* 
doctrine   they  taught  "Mormonism," 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  those  who  embraced  it  were  looked 
upon  as  the  offscouring  of  all  flesh.  I 
received  the  promised  testimony,  and 
after  50  years'  experience  I  do  most  as  - 
buredly  know  that  God  has  spoken 
from  the  heavens,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  true  prophet  sent  of  God,  and 
that  this  Church,  now  presided  over  by 
Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R 
Winder  and  Anthon  H.  Lund,  is  thij 
Church  of  the  Lamb. 

This  everlasting  Gospel  is  being 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness. I  have  had  the  privilege  of  trav- 
eling abroad  to  preach  it.  I  labored 
for  some  time  in  the  Southern  States, 
declaring  the  message  of  salvation,  and 
when  I  was  released  to  come  home  I 
was  sorry,  for  I  was  enjoying  my  la- 
tors  so  much  among  that  people.  No 
one  could  be  treated  any  better  than 
I  was  by  the  people  of  the  Southern 
States.  I  never  had  to  sleep  out  of 
doors,  for  the  Lord  always  opened  up 
the  way  for  me.  And  I  am  so  thankful 
to  know  that  the  Lord  blessed  the  peo 
pie  that  blessed  me.  Those  who  threw 
open  their  doors  to  the  Elders,  who 
fed  and  clothed  them,  and  who  aided 
them  in  the  work  of  the  ministry, 
though  they  have  not  embraced  the 
Gospel  they  will  most  assuredly  re- 
ceive the  recompense  of  reward  from 
the  Lord  Jesus,  our  Master.  We  were 
representing  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  noc 
ourselves.  We  were  not  beguiling  the 
people  by  falsehood,  by  false  dogmas  or 
to.  lish  traditions;  we  were  offering 
th<=m  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God 
with  the  promise  that  if  they  would  re- 
pent and  obey  it  they  should  be  put  in 
possession  of  a  similar  testimony  and 
knowledge  to  that  which  we  ourselves 
enjoyed.  Love  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth?  Of  course,  we  do.  I  have 
crossed  the  Atlantic  ocean  seven  times, 
rot  on  pleasure  trips,  but  in  the  inter- 
ests of  the  Church,  and  I  know  how 
the  Lord  has  protected  me  and  taught 
me.  He  will  do  the  same  to  anybody 
else,  if  they  will  put  their  trust  in  Him 
and  ask;  for  He  has  declared  in  the^e 
last  days  that  if  we  will  ask  we  shall 
receive,  if  we  will  knock  it  shall  be 
opened  unto  us,  if  we  seek  we  shall 
find.  We  do  most  assuredly  know  that 
this  is  true. 


These  are  the  glad  tidings  that  we 
take  to  the  nations.    We  tell  the  peo- 
ple what  opportunities  are  within  their 
reach  today,  if  they  will  only  repert 
and  obey  the  Gospel.    We  are  pleased 
to  do  this,  because  we  love  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth.    As  Latter-day 
Saints  we  are  frequently  admonished 
to  live  our  religion.    I  understand  that, 
to  live  our  religion  is  to  love  the  Lord 
oiir  God  with  all  our  might,  mind  and 
strength,  and  our  neighbor    as  our- 
selves, and  speak  of  all  the  best  we 
can.     I   understand   that  to   live  my 
religion  is  to  mind  my  own  business, 
attend  to  my  own  affairs,  work  out  n:y 
own  salvation,  and  magnify  my  calling. 
I  ".mderstand  that  to  live  my  religion 
is  to  trust  in  the  Lord  and  do  good;  to 
seek  earnestly  for  the  blessing  of  the 
Almighty,  and  to  be  filled  with  grati- 
tude to  Him  that  I  have  the  privilege 
of  being  a  member  of  His  Church,  that 
1  have  a  living  testimony,  that  I  have 
become  -sanctified  through  the  precious^ 
bl.->od  of  Christ,  and  that  I  have  th»* 
fellowship  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Lord 
has  said  He  would  be  enquired  after, 
and  I  have  enquired  of  Him  for  the 
last  50  years,  and  do  most  assuredly 
know  that  when  I  have  asked  for  thct 
wrich  has  been  necessary    He  han 
gi  anted  my  prayer,  having  tested  Him 
under  many  different  circumstances  in 
my  labors.    It  has  been  my  privilege  to 
bear  my  testimony  in  many  countries, 
and  I  have  been  thankful  to  Almighty 
God  for  the  manner  in  which  He  has 
sustained  me  in  all  my  travels.  He 
has  preserved  me  from  all  harm,  ai'dt 
enabled   me   to   accomplish   His  pur- 
poses.   I  have  frequently  said  that  if 
I  had  been  as  kind  to  myself  as  the 
...ord  has  been  to  me,  I  would  have 
no  reason  to  complain.    I  am  thankful 
to  declare  the  loving  kindness  of  our 
Father  in  heaven. 

Ihere  is  a  living  testimony  manifest- 
ed here.  I  shake  hands  with  brethren* 
whom  I  knew  50  years  ago,  when  we 
were  brought  into  the  Church  by  our 
Father  in  heaven;  for  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  said,  "No  man  can  come  to  me, 
e>cept  the  Father  which  hath  sent  me 
draw  him."  I  know  that  He  drew  me 
and  enlightened  my  mind;  I  know  that 
He  drew  my  brethren  and  enlightened 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


73". 


them.  They  know  it,  too,  and  we  are 
living  witnesses,  living  monuments  of 
His  mercy,  that  in  all  the  vicissitudes 
of  life  our  Father  has  preserved  us  ani 
has  filled  our  souls  with  gratitude  and 
praise.  He  has  given  us  the  privilege 
of  the  higher  education  in  His  ho1}' 
temple,  and  of  all  the  blessings  of  the 
n^w  and  everlasting  covenant.  There 
is  nothing  that  we  have  and  enjoy  but 
has  been  given  to  us  by  Him,  and  we 
soy.  All  glory  be  to  the  Father,  and 
to  the  Son,  and  to  the  Holy  Ghost! 

I  am  thankful  that  I  have  the  privil  - 
ege  of  bearing  my  testimony  upon  this 
auspicious  occasion.  I  am  thankful  for 
this  conference,  and  for  the  testimony 
of  my  brethren.  It  has  been  sweet  to 
me  to  listen  to  their  voices,  declaring 
the  goodness  of  God  to  them.  We  can 
see  what  class  of  men  the  Lord  has 
selected  to  be  his  ministers,  humble, 
childlike,  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  Do  we  love  each  other?  We 
do;  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  do  any- 
thing else.  May  the  Lord  God  of  Israel 
bless  these  His  servants  in  all  then- 
outgoings  and  incomings.  May  they 
be  established  in  His  everlastirg 
righteousness,  that  their  days  ma> 
never  fail,  but  that  their  testimony 
may  be  true  and  bright,  so  that  they 
rray  lay  down  their  lives  as  members 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  full  fellow- 
snip,  to  be  received  into  the  Church 
of  the  Lamb  behind  the  veil,  and  to 
realize  the  promise,  Blessed  are  they 
that  have  a  right  to  the  tree  of  life. 
If  we  can  obtain  a  right  to  the  tree  of 
life,  we  will  surely  be  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  good  standing,  to 
the  glory  of  God  our  Eternal  Father, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Possession  of  Priesthood  not  confined  to  a  few. 

Although  we  may  enjoy  a  little  a>l- 
\antage  over  the  rest  of  the  congre- 
gation, for  my  part  I  could  stay  here 
a  week  longer  to  hear  the  testimonies 
of  my  brethren,  and  to  give  to  the 
world  an  opportunity  to  see  and  know 
that  the  Priesthood  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
not  confined  to  one  man,  nor  to  three 


men,  nor  to  fifteen  men,  but  that  there 
are  thousands  of  men  in  Zion  who 
hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  which 
is  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God, 
and  who  possess  keys  of  authority  and 
po-ver  to  minister  for  life  and  salvation 
amcng  the  people  of  the  world.  I 
would  like  to  give  the  world  an  oppor- 
tunity to  see  what  we  are,  to  hear 
what  we  know,  and  to  understand 
what  our  business  is  and  what  we  in- 
tend to  do,  by  the  help  of  the  Lord. 
The  choir  sang: 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded. 
Benediction  by  Elder  George  C.  Par- 
kinson, president  of  Oneida  Stake. 

CLOSING  SESSION. 

The  choir  sang: 

Though  deep'ning  trials    throng  your 
way, 

Press  on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God. 
Ere  long  the  resurrection  day 
Will  spread  its  light  and  truth  abroad. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Wm.  C.  Parkinson,  president  of 
Hyrum  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Hark!  listen  to  the  trumpeters! 
They  sound  for  volunteers, 
On  Zion's  bright  and  flowery  mount 
Behold  the  officers. 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

Ancient  prophecies  fulfilled  in  these  days— The 
work  of  John  and  the  three  Nephites— Pre- 
paration for  the  coming  of  Messiah. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  nev- 
er enjoyed  a  conference  better  in  my 
life  than  the  one  we  are  now  holding; 
for  I  delight  in  hearing  the  workers  in 
Zion  express  their  views.  This  is  a  re- 
markable congregation,  and  last  night 
we  also  had  this  house  filled  to  over- 
flowing, with  Sunday  school  workers. 
When  I  see  these  large  congregations 
gathered  together  in  the  tops  of  the 
mountains  it  Alls  my  heart  with  joy, 
because  I  can  see  in  it  the  fulfillment 
of  ancient  prophecies.  Yesterday  the 
choir  rendered  a  beautiful  anthem, 
suggesting  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  would  be  established  :n_ 
the  tops  of  the  mountains.  The  Proph- 
et Isaiah  spoke  of  this.  He  was  a  great 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


prophet.  He  prophesied  of  the  coming 
forth  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  a  long  time  before  His  birth  in- 
to the  world.  He  also  prophesied  of  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Gospel  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fullness  of  times,  as, 
well  as  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.   He  said: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last 
days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top 
of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall 
flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say, 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the 
God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of 
his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths; 
for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law, 
and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jeru- 
salem." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  where  did  you 
come  from?  You  came  from  the  va- 
rious nations  of  the  earth,  and  in  your 
presence  here  is  fulfilled  one  of  the 
greatest  signs  that  will  ever  be  given 
to  this  generation  before  the  second 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ. 

When  our  Savior  was  among  men  he 
rebuked  them  because  they  took  no  no- 
tice of  the  fulfillment  of  prophecy.  He 
said,  "O  ye  hypocrites,  ye  can  discern 
the  face  of  the  sky;  but  can  ye  not  dis- 
cern the  signs  of  the  times?"  He  said 
further:  "Ye  hypocrites,  well  did 
Esaias  prophesy  of  you,  saying,  This 
people  draweth  night  unto  me  with 
their  mouth,  and  honoreth  me  with 
their  lips;  but  their  heart  is  far  from 
me.  But  in  vam  they  do  worship  me, 
teaching  for  doctrines  the  command- 
ments of  men."  Jesus  wanted  to  im- 
press them  that  they  should  rather 
look  to  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  than 
to  the  precepts  of  men.  He  himself  re- 
spected all  that  the  holy  prophets  ut- 
tered. In  His  memorable  sermon  on 
the  mount  He  said:  "Think  not  that  I 
am  come  to  destroy  the  law,  or  the 
prophets;  I  am  not  come  to 
destroy,  but  to  fulfill.  For  verily 
I  say  unto  you,  Till  heaven  and 
earth  pass,  one  jot  or  one  tittle  shall 
in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law,  till  all 
be  fulfilled." 

The  Prophet  Jeremiah  also  prophe- 
sied concerning  the  gathering,  in  the 
following  language: 


"I  will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and 
two  of  a  family,  and  I  will  bring  you  to 
Zion: 

"And  I  will  give  you  pastors  accord- 
ing to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed 
you  with  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing." 

When  you  find  a  pastor  that  will 
teach  the  children  of  men  according  to 
the  heart  of  God,  you  will  find  one  that 
has  perfect  reverence  for  the  words  of 
Jesus  wherein  He  says,  "Men  shall  not 
live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of 
God." 

It  has  been  eighteen  hundred  years 
since  any  one  has  come  forth  and  testi- 
fied that  they  have  seen  the  face  of 
God,  until  among  all  the  nations  of  ttu-> 
earth  they  are  beginning  to  look  upon 
the  Eternal  Father  as  an  imaginary 
creature.  Through  transgression  the 
Lord  withdrew  the  Gospel  from  the 
children  of  men.  Jesus  foreshadowed 
this  when  He  said  to  the  Jews,  "The 
kingdom  of  God  shall  be  taken  from 
you,  and  given  to  a  nation  bringi  g 
forth  the  fruits  thereof."  He  was  fi- 
nally put  to  death,  according  to  proph- 
ecy, and  after  His  resurrection  He  ap- 
peared unto  the  Apostles.  On  one  oc- 
casion they  asked  Him,  "Lord,  wilt 
thou  at  this  time  restore  again  the 
kingdom  to  Israel?  And  he  said  unto 
them,  It  is  not  for  you  to  know  the 
times  or  the  seasons,  which  the  Father 
hath  put  in  his  own  power."  Again, 
when  His  disciples  asked  him  "what 
shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  coming,  ai  d 
of  the  end  of  the  world?"  He  said, 
among  other  things,  "And  this  Gos.  el 
of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  na- 
tions; and  then  shall  the  end  come.'' 
He  also  said,  "Jerusalem  snail  be  trod- 
den down  of  the  Gentiles,  until  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled."  Here 
are  two  remarkable  signs  that  w*  re 
to  precede  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man. 

Now,  the  Lord  our  God  has  opened 
the  heavens  in  these  last  days,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  prophecy  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  Father  and  the  S  n 
have  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Jose;  h 
Smith.  The  Gospel  of  Christ  has  been 
restored,  in  fulfillment  of  prophecy,  and 
it  is  being  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness,  according  to  the  predic- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


75 


tion  of  the  Savior.  The  Elders  of  Is- 
rael have  stood  up  in  your  midst  and 
spoken  as  they  were  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost.  "When  you  heard  them 
you  said  in  your  heart  that  what  they 
said  was  true;  for  behold  it  went 
through  your  systems  like  fire.  God 
poured  out  upon  you  the  convincing 
power  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  gave 
you  a  witness  that  the  Elders  were 
servants  of  God  and  were  speaking  un- 
der the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  truth. 
Hence  you  yielded  obedience  to  the 
Gospel.  This  also  is  in  accordance 
with  the  words  of  Jesus  wherein  He 
says,  "My  sheep  know  my  voice;  but  a 
stranger  they  will  not  follow."  The 
voice  of  the  Spirit  of  God  led  you  out 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth.  As  El- 
der Teasdale  testified  here  this  morn- 
ing, "No  man  can  come  to  me,  except 
the  Father  which  sent  me  draw  him." 
When  that  Spirit  rests  upon  the  hon- 
est in  heart  their  greatest  desire  is  to 
help  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

A  portion  of  Israel  is  now  gathered 
together,  but  in  a  little  while  you  will 
find  another  prophecy  will  be  fulfilled, 
and  that  is  the  prophecy  that  Jesus 
made  to  the  three  Nephites  who,  hav- 
ing power  over  death,  are  still  livirg 
upon  this  continent.  He  spoke  to  them 
of  a  time  when  they  would  perform  a 
great  and  mighty  work  among  the 
Gentiles;  and  that  has  not  yet  been 
fulfilled,  but  it  will  be.  You 
will  find  that  many  districts  where  the 
Elders  of  Israel  cannot  reach  will  be 
penetrated  by  these  men  who  have  pow- 
er over  death;  and  when  the  honest  in 
heart  see  the  power  and  authority  that 
is  with  them,  they  will  feel  like  Nico- 
demus  did  of  old,  (but  I  trust  they  will 
have  more  faith  and  courage)  when  he 
said,  "Rabbi,  we  know  that  thou  art 
a  teacher  come  from  God:  ror  no  man 
can  do  these  miracles  that  tnou  doest, 
except  God  be  with  him."  These  three 
men  are  going  to  perform  a  great  work 
in  the  program  of  the  last  days,  as  is 
the  beloved  disciple,  John,  whom  Christ 
refers  to  when  He  says,  "If  I  will  that 
he  tarry  till  I  come,  what  is  that  to 
thee?"  According  to  a  revelation  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Savior  said  unto  Peter,  "If  I  will  that 
he  tarry  till  I  come,  what  «s  that  to 


thee?  for  he  desired  of  me  that  he  might 
bring  souls  unto  me,  but  thou  desiredst 
that  thou  mightest  speedily  come  un- 
to me  in  my  kingdom.  I  say  unto  thee, 
Peter,  this  was  a  good  desire,  but  my 
beloved  has  desired  that  he  might  d» 
more,  or  a  greater  work  yet  among  men 
than  what  he  has  done  before;  yea,  he 
has  undertaken  a  greater  work;  there- 
fore I  will  make  him  as  flaming  fire  and 
a  ministering  angel;  he  shall  minister 
for  those  who  shall  be  heirs  of  salva- 
tion who  dwell  on  the  earth." 

My  testimony  is  that  these  men  are 
going  abroad  in  the  nations  of  the 
earth  before  the  face  of  your  sons,  and 
they  are  preparing  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men  to  receive  the  Gospel. 
They  are  administering  to  those  who 
are  heirs  of  salvation,  and  preparing 
their  hearts  to  receive  the  truth,  just  as 
the  farmer  prepares  the  soil  to  receive 
the  seed.  The  Lord  has  promised  that 
He  would  send  His  angels  before  the 
face  of  His  servants,  and  He  does  so. 

You  are  here,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  a  gathered  capacity,  in  fulfill- 
ment of  prophecy.  This  is  the  day  spok- 
en of  by  Jeremiah: 

"Therefore,  behold  the  days  come, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  it  shall  no  more  be 
said,  The  Lord  liveth,  that  brought  up 
the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of 

Egypt; 

"But,  The  Lord  liveth,  that  brought 
up  the  children  of  Israel  from  the  land 
of  the  north,  and  from  all  the  lands 
whither  he  had  driven  them;  and  I  will 
bring  them  again  into  their  land  that 
I  gave  unto  their  fathers. 

"Behold,  I  will  send  for  many  fishers, 
saith  the  Lord,  and  they  shall  fish 
them;  and  after  will  I  send  for  many 
hunters,  and  they  shall  hunt  them  from 
every  mountain,  and  from  every  hill, 
and  out  of  the  holes  of  the  rocks." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  your  sons  are 
fulfilling  this  prophecy  today  in  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  Speaking  of  Zion 
that  should  be  established  in  power 
and  glory  in  the  last  days,  the  prophet 
says: 

"The  Gentiles  shall  come  unto  thee 
from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  and  shall 
say,  Surely  our  fathers  have  inherited 
lies,  vanity,  and  things  wherein  there 
is  no  profit." 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  to  my  young 
brethren  and  sisters  and  to  my  friends 
who  are  under  the  sound  of  my  voice, 


76 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that 
Jesrus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  through  His  atoning  blood 
all  mankind  may  be  saved,  by  obedience 
to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gos- 
pel which  He  has  revealed  in  these  last 
days  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
an  inspired  man,  raised  up  of  God  to 
usher  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times;  yea,  that  time  which  all  the 
holy  prophets  looked  forward  to.  My 
testimony  is  that  through  your  faith 
and  diligence  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God,  every  gift  and  blessing 
that  He  has  ever  promised  unto  the 
children  of  men  is  yours,  whereby  you 
can  be  brought  back  into  the  presence 
of  our  Father  and  crowned  heirs  of 
glory,  immorta-ity  and  eternal  life.  Be- 
hold, this  is  the  day  of  the  Loid's  prep- 
aration We  are  preparing  for  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Sa\  ior  Jesus 
Christ,  and  His  coming  is  near  at  hand. 
He  will  come  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
with  power  and  great  glory.  I  also 
lestify  unto  you  that  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Malachi  are  true  when  he  said, 
"For,  behold,  th?  day  cometh,  that 
shall  burn  as  an  oven;  and  all  the 
proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly, 
shall  be  stubble;  and  the  day  that  com- 
eth shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord 
of  hosts,  that  it  slvll  leave  them. neith- 
er root  nor  branch."  I  say  unto  you 
when  that  voice  goes  forth  among  the 
children  of  men,  "Lo,  the  bridegroom 
cometh;  go  ye  forth  to  meet  him,"  it 
will  be  a  sorrowful  day  for  the  children 
of  men.  It  will  be  a  day  of  weeping 
and  wailing  among  those  who  have 
taken  "the  broad  way."  As  Jesus  him- 
self has  prophesied,  they  will  cry  for 
the  rocks  to  fall  upon  them,  to  hide 
them  from  the  wrath  of  Him  who  shall 
come;  for  no  man  can  stand  in  the 
presence  of  God,  except  he  be  cleansed 
every  whit  from  sin. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sistecs,  and  fill  you  with  His  Holy  , 
Spirit,  that  your  greatest  desire  may 
be  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God  up- 
on the  earth,  that  we  all  may  keep  our 
garments  clean  and  unspotted  from 
the  world,  and  strive  to  set  an  example 
worthy  of  imitation,  that  we  may  be 
justified  of  the  Lord  and  be  prepared 


for  His  coming;  which  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  W.  C.  LYMAN, 
(President  of  San  Juan  Stake). 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
feel  very  humble  in  attempting  to  speak 
to  you  a  short  time,  and  I  trust  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  me, 
that  my  remarks  may  be  appropriate 
to  the  occasion  and  applicable  to  those 
who  may  listen. 

I  was  sustained  and  set  apart  as  the 
president  of  the  San  Juan  Stake  a  little 
less  than  six  months  ago  so  that  I  am 
perhaps  not  as  well  acquainted  with 
the  conditions  that  exist  there  as  I  will 
be  in  the  future.  However  in  connec- 
tion with  my  counselors  Brother  Wil- 
liam Halls  of  Mancos  and  Brother  Redd 
of  Bluff  I  have  visited  the  different 
wards  that  compose  the  stake.  I  be- 
lieve all  the  auxiliary  organizations  are 
in  good  running  order.  The  stake  cov- 
ers the  southeast  corner  of  the  state  of 
Utah  the  northwest  corner  of  the  terri- 
tory of  New  Mexico  and  the  southwest 
corner  of  the  state  of  Colorado;  and  all 
we  lack  to  make  us  happy  is  a  portion 
of  the  territory  of  Arizona  that  we  may 
raise  some  of  those  large  sweet  pota- 
toes that  Brother  Kimball  has  been 
telling  you  of.  We  have  some  good 
county  in  the  San  Juan  Stake  and  we 
have  a  good  deal  of  the  other  kind.  In- 
asmuch as  the  brethren  have  counseled 
the  Saints  not  to  move  too  much  at  the 
present  time  it  would  perhaps  not  be 
wise  for  me  to  tell  you  the  advantages 
of  that  portion  of  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard. However,  if  any  of  you  are  dissat- 
isfied with  your  present  homes  and 
think  you  are  not  getting  wealthy  fast 
enough  come  dcnvn  and  visit 
us,  examine  our  country,  and  you 
will  certainly  return  home  and  feel  sat- 
isfied to  stay  there.  Some  portions  of 
our  stake  have  been  settled  under  pe- 
culiar conditions.  One  of  the  towns  that 
we  have  there,  when  the  first  settlers 
•went  into  that  locality  they  had  to 
take  their  wagons  to  pieces  and  let 
them  down  over  a  perpendicular  cliff 
nearly  40  feet  high.  Some  of  them  nev- 
er came  out  again.  I  would  like  to  men- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  B.  KEELBR. 


77 


tion  briefly  trie  history  of  one  of  our 
towns.  For  a  period  of  years  after  it 
was  settled  it  seemed  as  if  it  would  be 
impossible  to  maintain  the  settlement. 
I  believe  the  people  once  or  twice  asked 
the  privilege  of  leaving  there  and  going 
to  a  more  favored  locality.  The  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  told  them  that  those 
who  desired  to  leave  were  at  liberty  to 
do  so  and  they  could  go  with  their 
blessings  but  that  those  who  remained 
would  be  doubly  blessed.  Quite  a  num- 
ber of  the  members  of  that  ward  hai 
faith  in  the  promise  of  the  Lord,  and 
they  remained  there,  and  that 
promise  to  them  has  been  literally 
fulfilled.  I  presume  that  today  there  is 
not  another  ward  in  the  Church,  *with 
the  same  number  of  people,  that  pos- 
sesses the  same  amount  of  wealth  aa 
this  ward  does. 

We  are  happy  in  that  country.  We  are 
trying  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  and  to  build  up  His  Church  :n 
that  part  of  the  vineyard.  I  love  the 
cause  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  love 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  love  the 
men  whom  God  has  appointed  to  pre- 
side over  us.  I  bear  testimony  that  I 
do  know  that  they  have  been  called  of 
the  Lord,  and  that  they  are  inspired  b> 
His  Spirit.  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  may  accompany  each  one  of 
us  who  have  attended  this  conference 
to  our  homes  and  remain  with  us 
through  life.  May  the  Lord  grant  it. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  B.  KEELER 
(Of  the  Presidency  of  Utah  Stake.) 

It  affords  me  much  pleasure,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  represent  be- 
fore you  the  Utah  Stake  of  Zion.  It 
has  only  been  about  twenty  months 
since  that  stake  was  divided,  and  three 
stakes  made  out  of  it;  but  I  can  assure 
you  that  its  spiritual  welfare,  and,  I 
hope,  its  temporal  welfare,  has  been 
enhanced  by  this  movement.  It  seems 
as  though  our  quarterly  conferences 
and  our  general  meetings  are  as  well 
attended  now  as  they  were  before  the 
division.  From  the  reports  we  hear 
from  the  Alpine  Stake  and  from  the 
Nebo  Stake,  it  would  seem  that  they 
likewise  are  prospering.     The  people, 


on  the  whole,  are  striving  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  believe 
they  are  increasing  in  their  tithes  and 
offerings.  They  rejoice  in  the  educa- 
tional advantages  that  they  have.  As 
you  know,  one  of  the  great  Church 
institutions  is  located  in  that  stake — 
the  Brigham  Young  academy.  Its  regis- 
tration last  Friday  evening  in  the  high- 
er departments  was  710  students,  and 
140  in  the  preparatory  *  school.  The 
stake  is  composed  of  seventeen  wards 
and  three  branches,  and  all  of  the  or- 
ganizations are  complete,  I  believe. 

I  have  been  much  interested,  as 
doubtless  you  have,  in  the  reports  that 
we  have  listened  to  today.  It  seems 
as  though,  when  we  are  hearing  these 
reports,  we  cannot  refrain  from  ex- 
claiming, Zion  is  growing!  We  are  liv- 
ing in  the  midst  of  the  fulfillment  of 
prophecy,  as  was  remarked  by  Apostle 
Taylor.  The  faith  and  the  testimonies 
of  the  people  are  increasing.  I  do  hope 
that  we  will  be  able  to  follow  the  coun- 
sel and  advice  that  is  given  to  us  from 
day  to  day  by  our  brethren  who  are 
placed  over  us.  I  think  it  is  wonderful 
counsel  they  are  giving  about  remain- 
ing in  the  places  where  the  Saints  have 
settled,  and  have  an  inheritance  there. 
I  know  full  well  that  there  is  a  rest- 
lessness among  the  people,  even  in  our 
part  of  the  land,  where  they  are  not  so 
short  of  moisture  as  they  are  in  other 
places.  But  the  counsel  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  is,  Remain  where  God 
has  planted  your  feet,  unless  you  are 
advised  to  go  elsewhere.  I  believe 
that  the  Lord  will  send  the  former  and 
the  latter  rains.  He  is  not  going  to 
drive  His  children  from  this  chosen 
land.  We  are  in  a  position  that  we 
may  know  in  the  spring  of  the  year 
whether  there  is  a  prospect  for  much 
or  little  moisture  and  it  seems  to  me 
it  would  be  the  part  of  wisdom  if  we 
should  govern  ourselves  in  our  farming 
interests  by  these  conditions.  There 
are  some  crops  that  we  need  not  plant 
if  we  know  there  is  going  to  be  a  short- 
age of  water.  It  would  be  better  for 
us  if  we  would  intensify  that  that  we 
already  have;  farm  less  in  these  dry 
seasons,  and  cultivate  it  more  thor- 
oughly, and  in  all  probability  we  would 
get  just  as  great  returns. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  also  been  gratified  to  hear  the 
counsel  given  regarding  the  betterment 
of  the  quorums  in  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood. I  acted  for  a  number  of  years 
in  the  Bishopric  and  I  know  the  diffi- 
culties the  Bishops  have  to  contend 
with.  I  have  been  a  short  time  in 
the  presidency  of  the  Stake,  and  I  com- 
prehend also  the  difficulties  that  have 
to  be  surmounted  in  that  calling.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  should  get  nearer  to  the 
Lesser  Priesthood.  "We  prepare,  say 
the  Seventies,  to  go  abroad  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  Our  Mutual  Improvement 
associations  tend  toward  this;  our  Sun- 
day schools  in  some  respects  tend  to- 
ward this.  But  we  find  very  little 
done  for  those  who  officiate  in  the 
Lesser  Priesthood.  I  have  rejoiced  to 
see  that  a  movement  is  now  being  un- 
dertaken to  make  more  effectual  the  re- 
ligion classes.  I  hope  the  brethren  will 
pay  some  attention  to  this.  The  breth- 
ren who  hold  the  offices  in  the  Lesser 
Priesthood  need  to  have  personal  at- 
tention. They  need  to  come  in  per- 
sonal contact  with  the  Teacher.  The 
trouble  is  1  think,  we  talk  to  them  at 
too  long  a  range.  They  ought  to  be 
trained  in  their  duties,  the  Deacon  to  be 
trained  in  his  office,  the  Teacher  in  his. 
If  the  Teacher  is  a  young  boy,  put  him 
in  care  of  some  experienced  man,  and 
let  him  be  taught  the  practical  as  well 
as  the  theoretical  part  of  his  calling. 
If  our  young  men  can  be  put  through 
this  system  of  training  and  education, 
the  result  will  be,  when  they  arrive  at 
manhood  they  will  be  capable  of  going 
among  the  people  and  giving  them  good 
advice  in  their  homes.  One  would 
think  that  the  Seventy,  coming  from 
his  mission,  would  be  just  the  man  to 
go  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
their  homes;  but  that  work  is  alto- 
gether different  from  the  work  he  has 
been  doing  in  the  world.  The  work  of 
proselyting  is  one  thing,  the  work  of 
Teacher  among  the  Saints  is  another 
thing.  Although  they  both  belong  to 
the  Gospel,  they  are  not  quite  alike.  I 
feel  to  rejoice  that  the  brethren  have 
been  advised  in  these  matters,  and  I 
hope  we  will  take  these  instructions 
home  to  our  Stakes  and  wards,  and  put 
them  into  practice,  that  in  the  years  to 
come  we  may  have  a  valiant  band  of 
brethren  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  or 


those  who  will  act  in  that  Priesthood, 
going  among  the  people  and  teaching 
them  their  duties.  May  God  add  His 
blessings,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILTON  H.  WELLING 
(President  of  Malad  Stake.) 

I  rejoice  exceedingly,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  the  privilege  I  have  had 
of  attending  this  conference.  .1  believe 
it  has  been  the  most  inspiring  specta- 
cle of  my  life.  To  hear  the  brethren 
who  are  laboring  in  the  various  mis- 
sion fields  and  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
report  the  progress  of  the  work  of  God 
among  the  children  of  men  is  a  testi- 
mony to  me  that  the  Gospel  which  we 
.have  received  is  true.  I  believe  if  the 
young  Latter-day  Saints  will  make  a 
careful  study  of  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference  they  will  be  able  to  obtain 
a  testimony  of  the  fulfillment  of  proph- 
ecy in  the  spread  and  development  of 
this  work.  The  Prophet  Daniel  saw  the 
time  when  a  little  stone  should  be  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands, 
which  should  roll  forth  and  fill  the 
whole  earth.  Today  we  can  see  in  a 
measure  that  this  word  of  God  is  being 
fulfilled,  from  the  reports  given  h_re 
by  the  servants  of  the  Lord  who  have 
come  from  different  parts  of  the  earth. 

I  am  honored  this  afternoon  in  hav- 
ing the  privilege  of  speaking  to  you 
for  a  few  moments  regarding  the  con- 
ditions that  prevail  among  the  people 
of  the  Malad  Stake  of  Zion.  The  Ma- 
lad Stake  was  organized  about  fifteen 
years  ago,  with  President  Oliver  C. 
Hoskins  at  its  head.  President  H>s- 
kins  remained  as  the  presiding  officer 
of  that  Stake  until  about  seven  month? 
ago,  when  I  had  the  honor  of  being^ 
called  to  preside  among  that  people. 
The  Saints  of  the  Malad  Stake  are 
united.  They  are  laboring  earnestly 
and  devotedly,  I  think,  for  the  upbuild- 
ing of  the  kingdom  of  God  among  the 
children  of  men.  The  Presidency  of  the 
Stake  have  visited  all  the  wards,  of 
which  there  are  eleven,  and  two 
branches,  and  we  find  that  the  people 
are  striving  to  the  best  of  their  ability 
to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  His  com- 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


79 


mandments.  The  Presidency  of  the 
Stake  are  united,  and  in  my  youth  and 
inexperience  I  have  been  exceedingly 
blessed  in  my  ministry  among  the  peo- 
ple there  by  having  two  faithful,  stal- 
wart counselors — Brother  Gibbs,  who 
has  been  associated  with  the  Presiden- 
cy of  the  Stake  since  its  organization, 
and  Brother  Ward,  who  has  been  pre- 
siding for  the  last  twenty-two  years 
among  the  Indians  of  Washakie.  In 
that  connection  I  may  say  that  we  feel 
proud  of  the  fact  that  we  have  an  In- 
dian ward  in  our  Stake,  thoroughly  or- 
ganized, and  with  all  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations. These  Indians  are  endeav- 
oring to  serve  the  Lord,  and  we  feel 
that  they  are  a  credit  to  our  Stake. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to 
testify  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  true,  and  that  those  who  are  placed 
at  the  head  of  this  Church  are  inspired 
of  the  Lord  to  perform  the  work  that 
they  have  been  called  to  do.  I  trust 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  go 
forth  from  this  conference  to  the  va- 
rious Stakes  of  Zion  and  carry  the  in- 
structions they  have  received  to  the 
home  of  every  member  of  the  Church, 
that  this  work  may  grow  and  prosper 
in  the  earth.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Importance  of  an  education,  secular  and  religious 
— Missionaries  should  avoid  debates— The  God 
we  worship — Only  the  accepted  standard  works 
of  the  Church  authoritative . 

This  conference  has  been  a  very  inter- 
esting one  to  me.  It  has  been  instruc- 
tive to  hear  the  reports  from  the  dif- 
ferent stakes  and  missions,  given  by 
those  who  are  present;  and  as  far  as  I 
have  learned  the  conditions,  I  know 
that  they  have  reported  truly. 

I  have  one  or  two  things  I  would  like 
to  speak  upon,  if  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
shall  lead  me  upon  those  subjects. 

Winter  is  coming,  and  during  the 
winter  time  our  day  schools  are  all  in 
session.  We  have  an  excellent  school 
system  in  the  state,  and  we  desire  to 
ask  all  parents  to  see  to  it  that  their 
children  attend  school  and  receive  all 
the  benefits  they  can  from  the  schools 
in  our  midst.    We  have  been  accused 


of  being  an  ignorant  people,  and  that 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  believe 
their  strength  lies  in  the  ignorance  of 
the  people;  but  this  is  not  the  case.  We 
do  not  want  to  foster  ignorance.  On 
the  contrary,  we  desire  that  all  our  chil- 
dren shall  enjoy  the  blessings  of  an  ed- 
ucation, as  far  as  it  lies  in  our  power 
to  give  it  them.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
said  that  no  man  could  be  saved  in  ig- 
norance. We  look  upon  ignorance  as  a 
hindrance  to  salvation.  Hence  we  want 
our  people  to  be  an  enlightened  people, 
an  educated  people,  a  people  trained  in 
all  that  leads  to  eternal  life. 

Besides  our  district  schools,  *we  hav«» 
schools  instituted  in  our  midst  for  the 
teaching  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
Last  night  we  had  a  large  congregation 
here  of  Sunday  school  workers.  We 
would  like  our  brethren  and  sisters 
throughout  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  in 
the  different  missions  where  Sunday 
schools  are  established,  to  see  the  im- 
portance of  having  all  their  children 
attend  them /and  receive  the  instruc- 
tions given  there.  We  look  upon  the 
Sunday  school  as  a  very  important  or- 
ganization in  our  midst,  and  we  are  in- 
deed pleased  that  so  much  interest  has> 
been  taken  in  this  matter.  While 
speaking  about  Sunday  schools,  I  want 
to  mention  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  and 
to  ask  the  parents  to  support  that  jour- 
nal and  place  it  in  the  hands  of  the 
children.  Remember  that  it  belongs  to 
the  Sunday  schools;  and  is  not  a  pri- 
vate enterprise.  Hence  we  ask  the 
Sunday  schools  to  be  loyal  in  its  sup- 
port, so  that  we  can  spend  more  means 
on  improving  it  and  making  it  what  it 
ought  to  be — a  journal  in  very  deed  for 
the  instruction  of  our  juveniles. 

Religion  classes  have  also  been  start- 
ed in  our  midst;  and  now  that 
the  day  schools  are  opened,  we  want 
these  classes  started,  too,  that  the  in- 
struction given  in  the  district  schools 
may  be  supplemented  with  religious  in- 
struction.  It  is  not  intended,  however, 
to  mix  the  two.  We  cannot  interfere 
with  the  state  schools.  We  do  not  de- 
sire to  take  any  rights  from  our  friends, 
living  here;  but  we  do  claim  the  right 
to  see  to  it  that  our  own  children  are 
given  the  privilege  of  learning  that 
which  we  believe  to  be  of  the  utmost 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


importance.   Presidents  of  stakes  ana 
Bishops  of  wards,  we  depend  upon  you 
to  put  forth  a  strong  effort  to  the  end 
that  in  every  ward  a  religion  class  bt 
established,  if  there  be  not  one  already 
We    have    quite  a    number  of  Church 
schools,  and  we  encourage  our  younj, 
men  and  young  women  to  attend  them. 
We  are  pleased  to  hear  from  all  our 
academies  that  they  have  opened  with 
better  prospects  than  ever  before.  A 
greater  interest  seems  to  be  taken  in 
these  institutions,  and  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Church  board  of  edu- 
cation, realizing  the  importance  of  this 
work,  have  made  a  greater  appropria- 
tion in  favor  of  it  than  ever  before.  We 
feel  that  the  expenditure  of  means  foi 
the  education  of  our  children  in  thesb 
schools  is  profitable.    We  cannot  fully 
estimate  the  value  of  these  institutions. 
It  may  cost  us  a  great  deal,  but  if  we 
can  saA-e  if  it  were  but  one  soul,  how 
great  will  be  our  joy,  saith  the  Lord.  I 
believe  these  institutions  will  be  the 
means  of  saving  thousands  of  souls. 
In  our  academies  missionary  courses 
have  been  established,  which  many  of 
our  young  men  have  been  called  to  at- 
tend, in  order  to  study  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  and  get  a  systematic  knowl- 
edge of  the  plan  of  salvation,  so  that 
when  they  go  out  into  the  world  they 
may  know  how  to  teach  that  which 
they  believe.    These  courses  are  doing 
a  great  deal  of  good. 

I  started  by  saying  that  we  want  all 
to  attend  the  district  schools.  Now,  we 
have  in  this  state  an  excellent  univer- 
sity. There  has  been  some  talk  that 
the  First  Presidency  and  other  authori- 
ties of  the  Church  were  inimical  to  that 
institution,  and  did  not  want  our  people 
to  send  their  young  men  and  young 
•women  there.  We  want  it  understood 
that  this  is  not  the  case.  In  the  past 
our  legislatures  have  been  composed 
mostly  of  men  belonging  to  this 
Church,  and  they  have  made  large  ap- 
propriations in  favor  of  that  institution, 
to  equip  it  and  make  it  worthy  the 
name  of  a  university.  We  feel  that 
our  people  should  avail  themselves  of 
the  advantages  of  that  institution 
Many  who  go  east  for  education  could 
go  to  that  institution  and  receive  just 
as  much,  I  believe,  as  they  do  at  the 


eastern  institutions  of  learning.  We 
want  it  understood  that  we  are  not 
against  the  university,  but  we  favor 
our  people  getting  the  advantages 
which  it  offers.  Religion  cannot  be 
taught  there,  of  course.  There  all  sects 
and  denominations  must  meet  on  neu- 
tral ground.  But  for  the  students  be- 
longing to  the  Latter-day  Saints  it  is 
possible  that  some  means  can  be  found 
whereby  they  could  be  given  religioua 
instruction  outside  of  the  institution. 
If  any  of  them  could  make  arrangement 
to  attend  the  theological  course  in  the 
Latter-day  Saints' university,  it  is  open 
to  them. 

When  we  were  down  south  we  en- 
couraged the  people  to  also  attend  the 
Normal  school  established  at  Cedar 
City.  We  consider  that  these  state 
schools  are  well  equipped  and  supplied 
with  able  instructors,  and  that  our 
young  people  can  derive  much  benefit 
from  them.  In  short,  '.ve  want  to  study 
how  we  can  make  the  most  of  the  edu- 
cational advantages  in  this  state  and 
in  the  other  states  throughout  Zion, 
that  ail  our  children  may  receive  an 
education. 

In  listening  to  the  reports    from  the 
presidents  of  missions,  I  was  pleased 
with  one  feature.    Some  of  them  said 
that  the  missionaries  avoided  debates 
and  contention.     I   look  upon  this  as 
the  right  course.    Some  there  are  who 
think  we  are  afraid  to  meet  anyone  in 
debate.    Not  so.    It  is  much  harder  for 
oup  young  brethren  to  keep  from  debat- 
ing than  it  is  to  engage  in  it;  for  they 
feel  that  they  have  the  truth,  and  they 
are  not  afraid  to  meet  anyune  in  de- 
fense of  the  principles  in  which  they 
believe.    But  we  have  only  one  object 
in  view  in  going  out  amongst  the  na- 
tions, and  that  is  to  follow  the  Master's 
instructions — to  go  out  and  teach  men. 
That  is  our  work.  We  do  not  go  out  to 
win  battles  as  debaters;  but  we  go  out 
to  teach  men  that  which  we  have  re- 
ceived, and  which    we  know    is  true. 
If  men  are  not  willing  to  receive  it, 
that  is  their    own    concern,  not  ours. 
When  our  Elders  show  the  world  the 
beauty  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
as  revealed  to  us,  it  is  for  men  to  say 
whether  they  will  receive  them  or  not. 
The  Elders  do  their  duty,  and  leave  the 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


81 


result  to  the  Lord.  Those  who  seek  to 
debate  with  our  Elders  and  thirst  for 
the  honor  of  beating  them  in  argu- 
ment, do  not  want  to  be  taught;  they 
simply  want  contention.  Paul  tells  us 
to  avoid  contention.  He  said:  "But  if 
-any  man  seem  to  be  contentious,  we 
have  no  such  custom,  neither  the 
churches  of  God."  So  we  say;  conten- 
tion is  not  our  custom,  and  we  advise 
our  missionaries  not  to  contend,  but 
simply  go  out  and  teach  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel. 

Some  there  are  who  follow  our  Elders, 
and  after  they  have  preached  the  prin- 
ciples of  salvation,  these  men  get  up 
and  charge  that  the  Elders  do  not  be- 
lieve in  God,  but  that  they  believe  in 
Adam  as  their  God,  and  they  will  bring 
up  a  few  passages  from  sermons  de- 
livered by  this  or  that  man  in  the 
Church  to  substantiate  this  charge. 
Now,  we  are  not  ashamed  of  the  glor- 
ious doctrine  of  eternal  progression, 
that  man  may  attain  the  position  of 
those  to  whom  came  the  word  of  God, 
that  is,  gods.  When  Jesus  was  preach- 
ing unto  the  Jews  on  one  occasion  they 
stoned  Him,  and  He  wanted  to  know  if 
they  stoned  Him  for  the  good  works 
He  had  been  doing.  Oh,  no,  they  say, 
"for  a  good  work  we  stone  thee  not; 
but  for  blasphemy;  and  because  that 
thou,  being  a  man,  makest  thyself  God." 
To  meet  this,  Jesus  said: 

"Is  it  not  written  in  your  law,  I  said, 
Ye  are  gods? 

"If  he  called  them  gods,  unto  whom 
the  word  of  God  came,  and  the  scrip- 
tures cannot  be  broken; 

"Say  ye  of  him,  whom  the  Father 
hath  sanctified,  and  sent  into  the 
world,  Thou  blasphemest;  because  I 
said,  I  am  the   Son  of  God?" 

"We  believe  that  there  are  gods,  as 
the  Savior  quoted.  He  repeated  what 
was  written  in  the  law,  and  He  did 
Tiot  say  it  was  wrong,  but  used  it  as 
an  argument  against  them.  While, 
however,  we  believe,  as  the  scripture 
states,  that  there  are  more  gods,  to  us 
there  is  but  one  God.  We  worship  the 
God  that  created  the  heavens  and  the 
earth.  We  worship  the  same  God  that 
came  to  our  first  parents  in  the  Garden 
of  Eden.  In  the  revelation  contained 
in  Section  116  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  the  Lord  speaks  con- 


cerning Adam-ondi-Ahman,  "the  place 
where  Adam  shall  come  to  visit  his 
people,  or  the  Ancient  of  days  shall 
sit,  as  spoken  of  by  Daniel  the  prophet." 
In  the  107th  section,  the  Lord  speaks  of 
Adam  as  "Michael,  the  Prince,  the 
Archangel,"  and  says  that  he  shall  be 
a  prince  over  the  nations  for  ever.  We 
may  with  perfect  propriety  call  him 
prince,  the  ancient  of  days,  or  even 
God  in  the  meaning  of  the  words  of 
Christ,  which  I  have  just  quoted;  but 
we  do  not  worship  him,  we  worship  the 
same  God  that  he  worshipped.  When 
our  missionaries  are  met  with  these 
sophistries  and  with  isolated  extracts 
from  sermons,  we  say  to  them  that  any- 
thing that  is  a  tenet  of  our  religion 
must  come  through  revelation  and  be 
sustained  by  the  Church,  and  they 
need  not  do  battle  for  anything  outside 
of  the  works  that  have  been  accepted 
by  the  Church  as  a  body.  When  men 
come  with  extracts  from  sermons,  let 
them  bring  the  whole  sermon,  so  that 
the  context  can  be  taken  to  see  what 
was  the  meaning  of  the  preacher,  and 
not  bring  a  few  isolated  passages  whose 
meaning  can  be  twisted  and  distorted 
to  something  opposite  to  what  was  in- 
tended. Our  brethren  have  a  right  to 
ask  for  this.  They  can  defend  the 
principles  they  teach  by  the  revelations 
of  God  as  contained  in  the  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  the  standard  works  of  the 
Church;  outside  of  these  they  need  not 
go.  Many  of  our  Elders,  when  they 
go  out  into  the  world,  have  never 
heard  of  the  things  that  are  brought  up 
against  us,  because  they  are  not  doc- 
trines believed  or  taught  here.  In  re- 
gard to  the  young  man  who  lately  com- 
mitted a  fearful  deed,  in  New  York, 
and  the  charge  that  the  teachings  of 
Mormonism  had  caused  him  to  do  it,  I 
am  safe  in  saying  that  the  young  man 
never  heard  at  home  in  Zion  a  single 
thing  taught  by  the  people  here 
in  regard  to  the  horrible  doc- 
trine attributed  to  us  by  the 
world,  called  "Blood  atonement," 
for  nothing  is  taught  either  in  private 
or  in  public  that  would  lead  to  such 
a  dreadful  crime.  It  is  only  out  in  the 
world  where  we  are  accused  of  holding 
such  views.   I  have  alluded  to  the  argu- 


82 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ments  brought  against  us  and  the 
works  considered  by  us  as  standards 
in  order  that  our  missionaries  may  not 
feel  at  a  loss  what  to  do.  They  know 
the  works  which  have  been  accepted  by 
the  Church;  they  can  read  the  word  of 
God  unto  His  people,  both  ancient  and 
modern,  and  let  them  plant  themselves 
firmly  thereon.  God  bless  you  all. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 
Temple  work — The  Sacrament— Fast  offerings. 

While  listening  to  the  reports  made  by 
the  Presidents  of  Missions,  I  thought  it 
might  not  be  out  of  place  for  me  to  say 
a  few  words  in  relation  to  some  mis- 
sionary work  done  at  home.  I  refer 
now  to  the  work  that  is  done  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord.  We  have  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple  about  fifty  mission- 
aries— brethren  and  sisters  who  have 
been  called  to  that  labor— and  they 
work  without  compensation.  Some  of 
them  have  been  on  that  mission  for 
more  than  nine  years.  I  have  in  mind 
one  sister  who  has  been  working  in 
the  temple  nine  and  a  half  years,  and 
I  do  not  know  that  she  has  ever  missed 
a  day  during  all  that  time,  when  the 
temple  has  been  open.  She  is  not  quice 
as  old  as  I  am,  but  she  is  nearly  81 
years  of  age.  If  you  will  pardon  me, 
I  can  say  the  same  thing  for  myself: 
daring  the  nine  and  a  half  years  I  have 
never  been  absent  from  the  temple  one 
day  when  it  has  been  open. 

1  will  give  you  a  few  figures  bearing 
upon  the  work  that  is  being  done  in 
*he  houses  of  the  Lord.  In  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  during  the  past  six 
months,  there  have  been  34,758  ordi- 
nances performed,  and  during  the  past 
year  73,060  ordinances.  Since  it  was 
opened  in  1893  there  have  been  726,924 
ordinances  performed  there.  In  all  the 
Temples  now  in  existence  there  have 
been  2,447,000  ordinances  performed. 

This  is  a  brief  sketch  of  the  work 
that  is  done  by  the  missionaries  who 
are  called  to  work  in  the  houses  of  the 
Lord. 

Be  it  remembered,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  this  Temple  work  was  one 
of  the  most  important  subjects  that 


the  mind  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smithy 
in  his  last  days,  was  very  much  exercis- 
ed over.  And  it  is  an  individual  work. 
It  is  the  duty  of  all  who  have  relatives 
and  friends  on  the  other  side  of  the 
veil  to  see  that  this  work  is  done  for 
them.  These  temples  have  been  erected 
at  great  expense;  millions  of  dollars 
have  been  expended  on  them;  they  are 
kept  open  at  a  heavy  expense;  and  we 
ought  to  avail  ourselves  of  the  oppor- 
tunity to  obtain  blessings  in  them. 
There  is  room  in  them  for  all  who  de- 
sire to  perform  ordinance  work.  1 
hope,  therefore,  you  will  take  this  into 
consideration,  and  remember  the  word* 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  it  is  the 
duty  of  every  person  who  has  received 
ordinances  for  themselves  to  seek  after 
their  dead  relatives. 

There  is  one  more  subject  that  I  wish 
lo  say  a  few  words  upon:  it  is  in  rela- 
tion to  the  administration  of  the  Lord  s 
supper.  When  visiting  wards  and 
stakes  I  have  thought  there  is  not  that 
solemnity  surrounding  this  ordinance 
ihat  ought  to  be.  It  is  a  matter  that 
J  he  presiding  officers  should  look  after. 
Call  the  attention  of  your  people,  when 
tJ-e  sacrament  is  being  prepared,  to  the 
sacredness  of  the  obligations  they  are 
about  to  enter  into.  I  remember  the 
fiist  time  I  ever  visited  a  Latter-day 
Paint  meeting  after  I  obeyed  the  Gos- 
pel, that  when  the  sacrament  was  pre- 
pared the  presiding  officer  arose  and 
spoke  to  those  present  in  relation  to 
tt-e  obligations  they  were  about  to  en- 
into,  and  time  was  given  for  any 
who  had  been  overtaken  in  a  fault  to 
make  confession  before  partaking  of 
Ihe  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper.  I 
believe  we  are  too  careless  in  relation 
to  this  ordinance.  When  the  bread  and 
the  water  are  passed  around,  we  ar* 
too  apt  to  partake  of  it  in  a  mechanical 
"kind  of  a  way,  without  thinking  scarce- 
ly of  what  we  are  doing.  Consequent1}  , 
I  call  the  attention  of  the  presiding 
officers  to  this  subject. 

One  more  subject  I  want  to  touch 
upon.  Tour  attention  has  been  called 
to  the  fast  offerings,  and  it  has  beeu 
en  id  that  some  stakes  and  wards  had 
no  poor,  consequently  they  did  not 
deem  It  necessary  to  fast.  Don't  you 
know,   brethren   and   sisters,    that  a 


THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


S3 


blessing  comes  from  fasting?  It  is 
not;  so  much  the  dollars  and  cents  aa 
it  is  the  blessing  that  we  are  aftei\ 
and  unless  we  observe  this  we  cannot 
expect  the  blessing.  I  could  give  you 
some  statistics  on  this  question  that 
probably  would  astonish  you,  but  I  wtll 
say  this:  Last  year  $36,000  had  to  b^ 
drawn  from  the  general  tithing  office 
to  provide  for  the  poor.  Now,  if  the 
Latter-day  Saints  would  observe  this 
rule  as  they  ought  to,  every  Bishop 
would  have  abundance  with  which  to 
supply  all  the  poor  in  Zion. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the 
three  days  we  have  been  here,  while 
hearing  the  brethren  I  have  felt  sev- 
eral times  like  shouting  Hosanna,  Ho- 
sanna,  to  God  and  the  Lamb!  In  tn<? 
r.ame  of  Jesus  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

"I  hold  in  my  hand  a  copy  of  the  re- 
vised edition  of  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price.  The"  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  as  it 
originally  existed,  was  presented  before 
the  general  conference  and  accepted  as 
one  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church. 
Since  then  the  book  has  undergone  a 
revision;  that  is  to  say,  all  the  revela- 
tions that  it  formerly  contained  which 
were  also  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  have  been  eliminated  from 
it,  as  we  thought  it  unnecessary  to 
have  revelations  published  in  this  book 
which  were  already  published  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants;  therefore, 
these  revelations  have  been  eliminated 
from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  as  it  now 
is,  and  you  will  find  them  In  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  In  addition  to 
tbis,  Professor  James  E.  Talmage  has 
gone  through  the  work  and  divided  it 
into  chapters  and  verses,  making  it  a 
far  more  convenient  book  of  reference 
than  it  was  before.  He  has  also  sup- 
plied copious  footnotes  or  references, 
which  will  be  an  aid  in  the  study  of  the 
book. 

These  are  the  changes  that  have  been 
made  .in  the  book,  and  we  now  present 
this  book  in  its  revised  form — the  orig- 
inal matter  being  preserved  as  it  was 
before,  only  divided  into  chapters  and 
verses — for  your  acceptance  as  a  stand- 
ard work  of  the  Church." 


It  was  moved  and  seconded  that  the 
book  be  accepted  as  a  standard  work 
of  the  Church,  and  the  motion  was  car- 
ried unanimously. 

President  Smith  then  presented  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  first  remark- 
ing that  "we  desire  that  the  brethren 
and  sisters  will  all  feel  the  responsibil- 
ity of  expressing  their  feelings  in  rela- 
tion to  the  propositions  that  may  be 
put  before  you.  We  do  not  want  any 
man  or  woman  who  is  a  member  of  the 
Church  to  violate  their  conscience.  Of 
course,  we  are  not  asking  apostates  or 
non-members  of  the  Church  to  vote  on 
the  authorities  of  the  Church.  We  only 
ask  for  members  of  the  Church  in  good 
standing  to  vote  on  the  propositions 
that  shall  be  put  before  you,  and  we 
would  like  all  to  vote  as  they  feel, 
whether  for  or  against." 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

of  the  Church  were  presented  by  Pres- 
ident Joseph  F.  Smith,  to  be  voted  up- 
on by  the  conference,  as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Brigham  Young,  as  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Brigham  Young,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  George 
Teasdale.Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Tay- 
lor, Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F. 
Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M. 
Smith. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrih. 

William  B.  Preston,    *s  Presiding 


84 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Trustee-in-TVust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund  as  Church  historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  O.  F.  Whitney,  A.  M. 
Musser  and  B.  H.  Roberts,  assistant 
historians. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education;  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund.James 
Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  George  H. 
Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner  and  John  R.  "Winder. 

As  General  Superintendent  of  Church 
Schools — Joseph  M.  Tanner. 

Secretary  of  Church  Board  of  Educa- 
tion— Arthur  Winter. 

As  members  of  the  Board  of  Examin- 
ers— Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Benjamin  Cluff, 
Jr.,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Joshua  H. 
Paul  and  James  H.  Linford. 


OFFICERS  AND  MEMBERS  OF  THE 
GENERAL  BOARD  OF  THE  RE- 
LIEF SOCIETY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LATTER- 
DAY  SAINTS. 

Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  general  presi- 
dent; Annie  Taylor  Hyde,  first  coun- 
selor: Ida  Smoot  Dusenberry,  second 
counselor;  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  general 
secretary;  Clarissa  S.  Williams,  general 
treasurer. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  DESERET  SUN- 
DAY SCHOOL  UNION. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superintend- 
ent; George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  J.  M.  Tanner, 
second  assistant  general  superintend- 
ent. 

Members  qf  the  Board— Joseph  F. 
Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Joseph  W. 
Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Fran- 
cis M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  Geo  ge 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  John  W.  Taylor,  L.  John  Nut- 
tall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett, 
John  M.  Mills,  William  D.  Owen,  Sey- 


mour B.  Young,  George  D.  Pyper,  Hen- 
ry Peterson,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John  R. 
Winder,  James  E.  Talmage,  George  M. 
Cannon,  Horace  Cummings,  George  D. 
Pyper,  general  secretary;  George  Rey- 
nolds, treasurer. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE 
YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IM- 
PROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Joseph  F.  Smith.general  superintend- 
ent; Heber  J.  Grant  and  B.  H.  Roberts, 
assistants;  Thomas  Hull,  secretary  and 
treasurer;  Evan  Stephens,  music  di- 
rector; Horace  S.  Ensign,  assistant  mu- 
sic director. 

Aids — Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Hen- 
ry Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley.Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Junius 
F.  Wells,  Milton  H.  Hardy,  Rodney  C. 
Badger,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Edward 
H.  Anderson,  Douglas  M.  Todd,  Thom- 
as Hull,  Nephi  L.  Morris,  Willard  Done, 
Le  Roi  C.  Snow,  Frank  Y.  Taylor, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Jos. 
W.  McMurrin,  Reed  Smoot,  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Moses  W.  Taylor,  B.  F. 
Grant,  Henry  S.  Tanner,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  Wm.  B.  Dougall. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  YOUNG  LADIES 
MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSO- 
CIATIONS. 

Elmina  S.  Taylor,  president;  Maria 
Y.  Dougall,  first  counselor;  Martha  H. 
Tingey,  second  counselor;  Ann  M.  Can- 
non, secretary  and  treasurer;  Mae  Tay- 
lor Nystrom,  corresponding  secretary; 
Joan  Campbell,  recording  secretary. 

Aids— Adella  W.  Eardley,  Sarah  Ed- 
dington,  Agnes  Campbell,  Lillie  T. 
Freeze,  Susa  Young  Gates,  Minnie  J. 
Snow,  May  Booth  Talmage,  Emma 
Goddard,  Rose  W.  Bennett,  Alice  K. 
Smith,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune,  Ruth  M. 
Fox,  Julia  M.  Brixen,  Helen  W.  Wood- 
ruff, Augusta  W.  Grant,  Mary  A. 
Freeze. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  PRIMARY  AS- 
SOCIATIONS. 

Louie  B.  Felt,  president;  Lillie  T. 
Freeze,  first  counselor;  Josephine  R. 
West,  second  counselor;  May  Anderson, 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


5 


secretary  and  treasurer;  Olive  L.  Der- 
bidge,  assistant  secretary;  Euphemia  I. 
Burnham,  recording  secretary. 

Aids— Aurelia  S.  Rogers,  L.  Lula 
Greene  Richards,  Isabella  S.  Ross,  Ca- 
milla C.  Cobb,  Edna  L.  Smith,  Eliza 
Slade  Bennion. 

GENERAL    BOARD    OF  RELIGION 
CLASSES. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  general  superin- 
tendent; Rudger  Clawson,  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  assistant  general  superintend- 
ent. 

Members  of  Board— L.  John  Nuttall, 
John  M.  Mills,  Henry  Peterson,  Horace 
Cummings,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
L.  John  Nuttall,  general  secretary. 

Leader  and  director  of  the  Tabernacle 
choir— Evan  Stephens,  with  Horace  S. 
Ensign  as  his  assistant;  John  J.  Mc- 
Clellan  as  organist,  and  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  choir. 

John  Nicholson  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

The  voting  to  sustain  was  afflima- 
tively  unanimous. 

PRESIDENT  SMITH 

read  the  following  and  in  suitable  re- 
marks gave  it  his  hearty  approval: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Oct.  6,  1902.— 
An  organization  has  recently  been  ef- 
fected under  the  direction  of  the  gener- 
al board  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  which  Sister  Emma  A.  Em- 
pey  was  sustained  as  general  supervis- 
or of  the  Relief  Society  nurses,  with 
Sister  Phebe  Y.  Beatie  as  secretary  and 
treasurer,  and  Sister  Margaret  C.  Rob- 
erts as  instructor. 

It  is  desired  that  the  Relief  Society 
of  every  stake  of  Zion  shall  send  as 
many  young  women  as  possible  to  study 
nursing,  and  that  the  presidents  of 
stakes  shall  interest  themselves  with 
the  Relief  Societies  and  young  ladies 
that  the  good  work  that  has  been  start- 
ed here  may  be  carried  on,  and  that 
the  sick  and  needy  throughout  all  the 
settlements  may  have  proper  attention. 


The  class  will  start  Monday,  Nov.  3. 
For  further  information  see  Relief  So- 
ciety pamphlet,  or  write  to  Sister  Phebe 
Y.  Beatie  at  55  North  West  Temple 
street,  Salt  Lake  City.  Emma  A.  Em- 
pey,  general  superintendent. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Honor  the  Priesthood  in  their  respective  callings — 
Sustain  the  Church  publications— President 
Snow's  great  and  good  work — Commendation 
of  the  auxiliary  organziations— Closing  ad- 
monitions. 

Six  months  ago  we  announced  to  the 
people  in  conference  assembled  that  we 
expected  to  carry  the  Gospel  and  our 
testimony  to  the  Saints  as  far  as  we 
had  power  to  do  it.  I  desire  to  say  to 
this  conference  that  we  have  fulfilled 
that  promise  to  the  best  of  our  ability. 
Myself  and  at  least  one  of  my  coun- 
selors, together  with  a  number  of  the 
Apostles,  have  visited  many  of  the  set- 
tlements between  here  and  Canada, 
holding  conference  in  Canada  and 
meetings  in  several  of  the  wards  there; 
and  we  have  been  as  far  south  as  St. 
George.  We  have  attended  the  con- 
ferences of  the  people  as  far  as  our 
time  would  permit,  and  there  has  not 
been  a  Sabbath  day  that  we  have  been 
idle.  We  have  visited  the  Saints,  borne 
testimony  and  declared  the  truth  to 
them  as  diligently  and  faithfully  as  we 
had  strength  and  time  to  do.  What  re- 
mains to  be  done,  we  hope,  by  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  and  continued  health 
and  strength,  to  be  able  in  the  future 
to  accomplish  it.  Between  now  and 
next  April  we  will  perhaps  be  able  to 
visit  a  number  of  the  Stakes  of  Zlon, 
and  Wards,  too,  which  we  have  been 
unable  to  reach  up  to  the  present.  We 
cannot  afford  to  be  idle. 

At  this  conference  we  have  heard 
from  nine  Apostles-all  that  were  in 
attendance.  I  regret  exceedingly  to  say 
that  President  Brigham  Young  is  con- 
fined to  his  room  with  serious  illness; 
and  while  we  hope  and  pray  that  the 
Lord  may  be  merciful  unto  him  and 
prolong  his  life,  we  feel,  from  ^  the 
knowledge  we  have  of  his  condition 
and  sufferings,  that  we  will  have  to 
leave  him  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord.  If 
he  had  been  present  at  this  conference, 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  would  have  had  all  the  brethren  of 
the  Twelve  with  us,  excepting  Brothers 
Lyman  and  Grant,  who  are  in  foreign 
lands  laboring  in  the  missionary  field. 
Besides  the  Twelve,  we  have  heard 
from  almost  forty  presiding  officers  in 
the  Church;  and  I  only  regret  that  we 
do  not  have  the  time  to  continue  this 
work  until  we  could  hear  from  all  the 
Presidents  of  Stakes,  at  least.  But, 
brethren,  do  not  be  discouraged;  if  you 
will  come  next  Conference  we  will  give 
you  a  chance  then. 

Furthermore,  I  want  to  say  to  the 
Saints  who  have  listened  to  the  breth- 
ren who  have  spoken  unto  us,  that 
they  are  only  an  average  of  the  Pres- 
idents of  Stakes.  We  have  not  select- 
ed the  brightest,  the  wisest  and  the 
best  to  speak  to  us.  "We  have  taken 
those  from  the  outer  settlements,  as  far 
as  we  could,  because  we  desired  to 
have  them  heard  here.  We  desire  to 
recognize  them,  and  we  would  like  their 
people  at  home  to  realize  the  fact  that 
they  are  recognized  in  the  general  con- 
ferences of  the  Church.  I  believe  it  to 
be  the  duty  of  the  Church  to  recog- 
nize and  acknowledge  every  man  that 
holds  an  official  position  in  it,  in  his 
sphere  and  in  his  calling.  I  hold  to  the 
doctrine  that  the  duty  of  a  Teacher  :s 
as  sacred  as  the  duty  of  an  Apostle,  in 
the  sphere  in  which  he  is  called  to  act, 
and  that  every  member  of  the  Church 
is  as  much  in  duty  bound  to  honor  the 
Teacher  that  visits  him  in  his  home  as 
he  is  to  honor  the  office  and  counsel  of 
the  presiding  quorum  of  the  Church. 
They  all  have  the  Priesthood,  they  are 
all  acting  in  their  callings,  and  they  are 
all  essential  in  their  place,  because  the, 
Lord  has  appointed  them  and  set  them 
in  His  Church.  We  cannot  ignore 
them;  or,  if  we  do,  the  sin  will  be  up- 
on our  heads. 

We  have  had  some  excellent  instruc- 
tions from  President  Lund  and  Presi- 
dent Winder  of  the  First  Presidency,  in 
relation  to  the  work  in  the  Temple,  to 
discussions  and  contentions,  in  the  mis- 
sionary field,  to  the  education  of  our 
children,  to  the  maintenance  of  schools, 
to  religion  class  work,  and  other  mat- 
ters. I  endorse  their  remarks.  Presi- 
oj  papuauiuiooaj  osre  SBq  pun^  }uap 


us  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  of  which 
the  brethren  have  given  me  the  honor 
of  being  the  chief  editor.  I  am  not  the 
only  editor  of  this  periodical.  Brother 
George  Reynolds  is  one  of  the  editors; 
indeed  he  is  the  worker,  the  bee  in  that 
hive.  He  is  always  busy  wherever 
you  find  him.  So  far  as  industry 
is  concerned,  I  do  not  know  a  man  in 
Israel  that  performs  a  greater  multi- 
tude of  duties  and  labors  than  George 
Reynolds  does.  He  is  always  at  work, 
and  always  has  plenty  to  do.  I  desire 
to  remind  you  too,  that  the  brethren 
have  done  me  the  honor  also  of  elect- 
ing me  to  be  the  editor  of  the  Improve- 
ment Era,  the  organ  ot  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  associa- 
tion, Elder  E.  H.  Anderson  being  ac- 
tively in  charge.  As  the  Juvenile  In- 
structor  belongs  to  the  Sunday  schools, 
and  not  to  any  individual  or  syndicate 
of  individuals,  in  like  manner  the  Era 
is  the  organ  of  the  young  men  of 
Zion.  No  man  has  any  interest  or  profit 
in  it  more  than  another;  nobody  is 
making  money  out  of  it,  and  nobody 
is  getting  any  salary  out  of  it,  except 
one  or  two  who  have  to  be  constantly 
employed  in  the  office.  We  send  the 
magazine  to  the  missionaries  abroad, 
and  receive  commendations  from  the 
Elders  with  respect  to  the  good  that  ig 
being  accomplished  by  doing  this.  We 
recommend  the  Improvement  Era,  as 
we  do  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  to  the 
youth  of  Zion,  and  we  say  that  you  can- 
not do  better  than  subscribe  for  it,  and 
have  it  in  your  libraries,  and  still  bet- 
ter, read  it.  Nor  do  we  wish  to  overlook 
the  Young  Woman's  Journal,  nor  the 
Children's  Friend. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  want  you  to 
be  united.  We  hope  and  pray  that  you 
will  go  from  this  conference  to  your 
homes  feeling  in  your  hearts  and  from 
the  depths  of  your  soul  to  forgive  one 
another,  and  never  from  this  time  forth 
to  bear  malice  towards  another  fellow 
creature,  I  do  not  care  whether  he  is  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  or  not,  whether  he 
is  a  friend  or  a  foe,  whether  he  is  good 
or  bad.  It  is  extremely  hurtful  for  any 
man  holding  the  Priesthood  and  enjoy- 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  harbor  a 
spirit  of  envy,  or  malice,  of  retaliation, 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


87 


or  intolerance  toward  or  against  his 
fellow  man.  We  ought  to  say  in  our 
hearts,  let  God  judge  between  me  and 
thee,  but  as  for  me  I  will  forgive.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  Latter-da* 
Saints  who  harbor  a  feeling  of  unfor- 
giveness  in  their  souls  are  more  guilty 
-and  more  censurable  than  the  one  who 
has  sinned  against  them.  Go  home  and 
dismiss  envy  and  hatred  from  your 
hearts;  dismiss  the  feeling  of  unforgive- 
ness;  and  cultivate,  in  your  souls  that 
spirit  of  Christ  which  cried  out  upon 
the  cross,  "Father,  forgive  them;  for 
they  know  not  what  they  do."  This  is 
the  spirit  that  Latter-day  Saints  ought 
to  possess  all  the  day  long.  The  man 
who  has  that  spirit  in  his  heart  and 
keeps  it  there  will  never  have  any  trou- 
ble with  his  neighbor;  he  will  never 
have  any  difficulties  to  bring  before  the 
Bishop,  nor  High  Council;  but  he  will 
always  be  at  peace  with  himself,  at 
peace  with  his  neighbors,  and  at  peace 
with  God.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  be  at 
peace  with  God. 

One  year  ago  today,  as  near  as  I  can 
recall,  we  were  honored  by  the  presence, 
and  with  the  privilege  to  hear  the  voice 
of  President  Snow.  Shortly  after  he 
was  called  home  to  his  final  account  be- 
fore the  great  Judge  of  the  quick  and 
the  dead.  The  Lord  preserved  his  life 
to  a  goodly  age,  and  I  want  to  say  that 
the  Lord  Almighty  accomplished  some 
things  through  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
that  neither  President  John  Taylor  nor 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  accom- 
plished in  their  day.  Although  the 
same  questions  had  been  brought  be- 
fore them,  yet  they  were  never  thor- 
oughly decided  and  settled  until  Presi- 
dent Snow  did  it.  Therefore,  I  say,  all 
honor  and  praise  be  unto  that  instru- 
ment in  the  hands  of  God  of  establish. 
Ing  order  in  the  midst  of  uncertainty, 
and  certain  rules  by  which. we  know  oui 
bearings.  I  wish  to  mention  this,  be- 
cause I  feel  in  my  heart  to  thank  the 
Lord  for  President  Snow,  and  to  honor 
iiim  as  the  instrument  in  His  hands 
of  accomplishing  his  mission,  for  which 
the  Lord  preserved  him  so  long  in  life. 
He  lived  to  bear  his  testimony  to  the 
world  that  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet 
taught  him  the  doctrine  of  celestial 
marriage.    He  lived  to  declare  to  the 


world  that  he  knew  positively  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  did  receive  it  by  revelation 
ajnd  that  that  doctrine  was  true  and  of 
God.  And  if  he  had  done  no  more  than 
this  he  would  have  accomplished  a 
great  work,  because  he  was  a  living 
witness,  an  eye-witness  and  an  ear- 
nvitness,  and  he  knew  whereof  he 
spoke.  You  and  I  will  have  to  meet  his 
testimony,  and  so  will  the  people  of 
the  world;  and  when  we  go  to  give  an 
account  of  that  which  we  have  heard 
and  known  in  the  world,  we  can  not 
dodge  this,  but  will  be  held  to  an  ac- 
count for  it,  just  as  sure  as  the  Lord 
lives  and  President  Snow  did  his  duty. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  to  the 
Mutual  Improvement  associations.  You 
young  men  and  young  women,  officers 
of  the  Mutual  Improvement  associa- 
tions, I  implore  you  to  go  from  thia 
conference  and  do  your  duty.  Look  af- 
ter the  wayward,  the  disobedient,  the 
thoughtless,  and  the  indifferent.  It  is 
necessary  that  they  should  be  guarded 
and  looked  after.  As  it  has  been  ex- 
pressed here  time  and  again,  it  is  bet- 
ter for  us  to  save  our  own  boys  who  are 
being  misled  at  home,  than  It  is  for  us 
to  go  out  into  the  world  and  spend 
years  of  time  and  endless  means  in 
order  to  gather  in  a  few  people  from 
the  world,  while  some  of  our  own  boys 
and  girls  need  redemption  as  much  as 
they,  besides  these  people  of  the  world 
are  so  full  of  the  traditions  and  super- 
stitions of  their  fathers  when  they 
gather  to  Zion  that  it  is  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  for  them  to  entirely  over- 
come these  traditions  and  get  down  to 
a  full  comprehension  of  the  Gospel  and 
a  complete  reception  of  the  truth.  Yet 
a  soul  saved  out  in  the  world  is  as 
precious  in  the  sight  of  God  as  a  soul 
saved  at  home.  But  we  have  work  to 
do  right  at  home,  at  our  own  doors; 
and  it  will  not  do  for  us  to  neglect  the 
work  necessary  to  be  done  at  our  own 
thresholds,  and  then  go  out  into  the 
world  to  do  work  that  is  no  more  neces- 
sary.  Let  us  do  our  duty  everywhere. 

I  desire  to  speak  a  word  of  commen- 
dation of  the  Primary  associations.  The 
sisters  who  are  engaged  in  this  noble 
work  are  most  worthy  women  and  very 
energetic  in  their  labors.  They  are  ac- 
complishing a  wonderful  work.    It  is 


88 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


soul-inspiring,  delightful  and  encourag- 
ing to  see  the  results  of  the  labors  of 
these  sisters.  I  commend  this  work  to 
the  attention  of  presiding  officers  every- 
where, and  would  ask  that  the  Bishops 
encourage  and  foster  not  only  the  Sun- 
day schools  and  the  Improvement  asso- 
ciations, but  also  the  Primary  associa- 
tions; for  theirs  is  a  work  necessary  to 
be  done  among  the  little  children, 
which  cannot  be  done,  it  would  appear, 
in  any  other  way. 

Furthermore,  I  desire  to  commend  the 
work  of  the  Relief  Society,  an  organ- 
ization that  was  effected  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  The  objects  of  this  or- 
ganization are  manifold.  It  is  not  de- 
signed to  look  only  after  the  poor  and 
the  needy  as  to  their  bodily  necessities, 
but  it  is  also  intended  to  look  after  the 
spiritual,  mental  and  moral  welfare  cf 
the  mothers  and  daughters  in  Zion,  and 
all  who  are  engaged  or  interested  in  fe- 
male work.  I  commend  the  Relief  So- 
cieties to  the  Bishops,  and  say,  be 
fnendly  to  these  organizations,  be- 
cause they  are  auxiliary  organizations 
and  a  great  help  to  the  Bishops. 

I  regret  very  much  indeed  that  we 
*ave  not  had  time  to  hear  from  the 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  but  nei- 
ther they  nor  you  need  to  feel  very  bad 
about  it,  because  we  expect  to  send  them 
out  to  visit  you.  If  you  have  not  nad 
the  prilvilege  of  hearing  them  here,  we 
will  let  you  hear  them  at  your  homes. 
It  is  their  business  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel, and  another  time  they  may  have  a 
chance  to  preach  it  to  you  here.  I 
would  love  to  have  heard  them  and — I 
was  going  to  say — hundreds  of  others, 
whom  we  would  like  to  have  heard,  if 
time  would  permit. 

I  now  say  to  the  brethren  of  the 
Priesthood — the  High  Priests,  the  Sev- 
enties, the  Elders,  and  the  Lesser 
Priesthood— magnify  your  callings; 
study  the  scriptures;  read  the  107th 
section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  on  Priesthood;    learn  that 


revelation,  which  was  given  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  live  by 
its  precepts  and  doctrine,  and  you  will 
gain  power  and  intelligence  to  straight- 
en out  many  kinks  that  have  hereto- 
fore existed  in  your  minds,  and  to  clear 
up  many  doubts  and  uncertainties  in 
relation  to  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood. 
God  gave  that  word  to  us.  It  is  in 
force  today  in  the  Church  and  in  the 
world,  and  it  contains  instruction  to 
the  Priesthood  and  the  people  in  rela- 
tion to  their  duties,  which  every  Elder 
should  know. 

I  will  say  now  to  all  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  Let  us  live  our  religion;  let 
us  pay  our  tithing  and  be  blessed;  iet 
us  remember  the  poor  and  the  needy, 
and  sustain  and  help  them;  let  us  visit 
the  sick  and  afflicted,  and  admlnster 
consolation  unto  them;  let  us  help  the 
weak;  let  us-  do  all  in  our  power  to 
build  up  Zion,  to  establish  righteous- 
ness in  the  earth,  and  to  plant  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people  the  glorious  truth 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God,  whom  the 
Lord  raised  up  in  these  last  days  to 
restore  the  everlasting  Gospel  and  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  to  the 
world. 

That  the  Lord  may  help  us  to  accom- 
plish this  work,  and  sustain  us  in  every 
good  word  and  work,  is  my  humble 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang, 
We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Charles  W.  Penrose,  counselor  in 
the  Presidency  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  stenographic  work,  in  taking  a  full 
account  of  the  speeches,  was  done  by- 
Elder  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


SEMI-ANNUAL  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  CONFERENCE. 

Preliminary  Meeting  of  Superintendents. 


The  superintendents  and  assistants 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion  met  with  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union  board,  at  room 
No.  25  of  the  Lion  House,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  6  o'clock  on  the  evening  of 
Sunday,  October  5,  1902,  for  the  consid- 
eration of  special  business.  The  call 
was  made  by  the  general  superintend- 
ency.  Thirty-five  stakes  were  repre- 
sented. 

The  brethren  sang,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel,"  and  prayer  was  offered  by  El- 
der James  H.  Linford. 

Elder  George  D.  Pyper  brought  up 
the  subject  of  the  Juvenile  Instructor 
and  stated  that  a  subscription  vof  8,300 
was  secured  last  year  and  this  had  in- 
creased to  8,800  during  the  present  sea- 
son with  the  prospect  of  reaching  what 
the  board  desired  by  the  end  of  the 
year — nine  thousand  subscribers.  It  was 
claimed,  however,  that  the  list  should 
be  increased  to  at  least  10,000  during 
1903,  and  Elder  Pyper  asked  the  sup- 
port of  the  officers  in  behalf  of  the 
magazine  and  urged  upon  them  the 
necessity  of  reading  it  themselves  in 
order  to  keep  up  with  the  Sunday  school 
work. 

Elder  George  M.  Cannon  offered  the 
following  resolution: 

"Resolved,  that  as  stake  superintend- 
ents of  Sunday  schools  we  make  an 
earnest  effort  to  increase  the  number 
of  subscribers  to  the  Juvenile  Instruct- 
or in  our  respective  stakes  at  least  ten 
per  cent." 

After  some  remarks  the  resolution 
was  adopted. 

Elder  Joseph  "W.  Summerhays  said 
that  the  board  was  simply  the  agent  of 
the  schools  in  publishing  the  Juvenile 
Instructor,  but  it  was  plain  to  all  that 
the  Sunday  school  organization  needed 


an  organ  and  the  Instructor  was  a. 
necessity;  all  the  board  asked  was  that 
the  stake  and  ward  officers  and  work- 
ers should  bear  their  part  of  the  burden. 

Elder  Summerhays  also  stated  that 
the  board  would  like  a  Sunday  School 
Union  organized  in  every  stake  of  Zion; 
that  it  was  recommended  that  a  Sunday 
school  conference  be  held  in  each  ward 
once  a  year;  that  stake  Sunday  school 
officers  should  go  into  the  by-ways  and 
corners  and  mining  towns  and  organize 
Sunday  schools  wherever  possible.  No- 
town,  village,  settlement  or  camp 
should  be  without  its  Sunday  school. 

Elder  Horace  Cummings  related  his 
experience  in  organizing  a  Sunday 
School  Union  in  Juarez  Stake,  Mexico. 
All  schools  were  represented  except  one 
composed  of  two  families,  living  one 
hundred  and  fifty  miles  away.  There 
were  two  hundred  and  ninety-nine  pre- 
sent, and  it  took  a  month  for  some 
of  the  workers  to  come  to  the  meetings 
and  return  to  their  homes.  This,  he 
thought,  a  complete  answer  to  those 
who  object  to  the  organization  of  a 
union  because  of  the  scattered  condition 
of  the  people  of  their  stakes,  as  very 
few  stakes  are  as  scattered  as  Juarez, 
and  yet  they  made  a  great  success  of  it,, 
and  he  believed  great  good  would  fol- 
low. 

Elder  Joseph  M.  Tanner  then  an- 
nounced the  near  completion  of  the 
Sunday  school  plans,  and  stated  that, 
subject  to  the  printer's  ability  to  do  the 
work,  the  committee  hoped  to  have  the 
plans  in  the  hands  of  the  teachers  by 
December  1st. 

General  Treasurer  George  Reynolds 
submitted  a  proposition  to  offer  premi- 
ums of  ten  volumes  of  the  Juvenile  In- 
structor to  the  stake  remitting  the 
nickel  donation  to  the  general  treasurer 


90 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


by  December  1,  1902,  and  five  volumes 
to  the  stake  remitting  by  January  1, 

1903. 

On  motion  of  Elder  David  O.  McKay 
the  offer  was  amended  so  as  to  require 
a  payment  of  a  full  one  hundred  per 
cent  of  the  nickel  fund  based  on  last 
year's  report  of  enrollment,  and  on  mo- 
tion the  time  of  payment  was  changed 
to  December  15th  and  January  15th,  in- 
stead of  December  1st  and  January  1st. 

Elder  Thomas  C.  Griggs  stated  that 
with  the  exception  of  one  stake  and 
part  of  another  all  the  jubilee  histories 
had  been  sent  to  the  various  stakes  in 
accordance  with  the  resolution  adopted 
by  the  stake  officers,  and  there  was  still 
some  $1,100  due.  It  was  thought  suf- 
ficient time  had  now  been  given  and 
that  these  accounts  should  be  squared 
up. 

The  meeting  then  adjourned  with  the 
benediction  by  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 


GENERAL  MEETING. 

The  General  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Sunday  evening,  October  5,  1902, 
at  7:30  o'clock,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding.  There  were 
present,  of  the  General  Superintend- 
ency,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Rey- 
nolds, and  Joseph  M.  Tanner;  most  of 
the  members  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  board,  several  Apostles,  officers 
and  representatives  from  forty-three 
stakes,  the  absentees  being  Bingnam, 
Maricopa,  St.  Johns,  Sevier,  Snowflake, 
Star  Valley,  and  Union.  Three  mis- 
sions were  also  represented,  viz:  Cali- 
fornia, Colorado  and  the  Northern 
States. 

This  congregation  of  Sunday  school 
officers  and  teachers  and  those  interest- 
ed in  the  work  formed  probably  the 
largest  Sunday  School  Union  meeting 
ever  held  in  the  Church. 

The  conference  was  opened  by  the 
Tabernacle  choir,  led  by  Professor  Evan 
Stephens,  singing  the  anthem,  "Let  the 
Mountains  Shout  for  Joy."  Prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  Reuben  G.  Miller  of 
Emery  Stake. 


The  choir  then  sang,  "From  afar, 
Gracious  Lord." 

General  Secretary  George  D.  Pyper 
then  called  the  roll,  which  was  respond- 
ed to  by  forty-three  stakes  and  three 
missions,  as  before  stated.  The  secre- 
tary also  presented  the  general  Sunday 
school  authorities,  who  were  sustained 
as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  General  Superin- 
tendent. 

George  Reynolds,  First  Assistant  Gen- 
eral Superintendent. 

Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Second  Assistant 
General  Superintendent. 

Members  of  the  Board:  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Jos.  W. 
Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Fran- 
cis M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  George 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  John  W.  Taylor,  L.  John  Nut- 
tall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett, 
John  M.  Mills,  William  D.  Owen,  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  George  D.  Pyper,  Hen- 
ry Peterson,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John  R. 
Winder,  James  E.  Talmage,  George  M. 
Cannon,  Horace  Cummings. 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Secretary. 

George  Reynolds,  Treasurer. 

Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Business  Manager. 

SECOND  ASSISTANT  SUPERIN- 
TENDENT JOSEPH  M. 
TANNER. 

I  am  pleased  to  see  so  many  present 
who  are  evidently  interested  In  the 
great  Sunday  school  cause;  and  I  ask 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers 
that  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  God  in 
the  remarks  which  I  may  make. 

The  Sunday  school  work  is  something 
that  comes  home  to  us  all  and  especial- 
ly is  it  important  to  the  home;  and  all 
those  who  look  forward  to  the  establish- 
ment of  home,  its  elevation,  its  inspira- 
tion, must  of  necessity  be  particular 
friends  of  the  Sunday  school.  It  la 
that  great  organization  of  the  Church 
used  for  the  training  of  our  children  in 
spirit  and  mind,  and  therefore  the 
methods  adopted  for  its  work  are  im- 
portant, and  the  amount  of  the  work  is 
a  matter  in  which  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  board  is  greatly  interest- 
ed. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL.  UNION. 


91 


There  have  heen  remarkable  changes 
In  the  Sunday  schools  in  some  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion  within  the  last  few  years. 
These  changes  are  so  great  In  some  in- 
stances that  it  is  hardly  possible  to  real- 
ize the  improvements  made.  The  in- 
tense interest  and  enthusiasm  that  have 
been  awakened  have  almost  revolution- 
ized some  stakes.  It  has  been  a  matter 
of  great  importance  to  the  Union  board 
to  learn  what  has  been  the  cause  of 
these  changes  and  why  some  stakes 
have  advanced  so  much  more  rapidly 
than  others,  though  no  doubt  all  the 
stakes  of  Zion  are  ambitious  to  be  in 
the  first  rank.  One  important  cause  is 
found  in  the  fact  that  the  teachers  and 
students  are  now  preparing  tnemselves 
in  their  lessons  before  going  into  the 
Sunday  schools.  The  teachers  have 
union  meetings,  and  once  a  month  as- 
semble and  give  instructions.  It  is  now 
required  of  the  teachers  that  they  be 
prepared  in  advance  before  going 
into  the  school  room,  and  this  prep- 
aration of  the  teacher  leads  to 
preparation  on  the  part  of  the  pu- 
Til-  The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
board  have  noticed  that  these  changes 
have  been  due  to  program  and  out- 
lines prepared  in  advance;  and  in  con- 
sequence it  was  proposed  that  uni- 
form outlines  be  prepared  for  all  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  so  that  every  Sunday  in 
the  year  there  is  a  lesson  for  the  teach- 
ers to  give.   The  plans  will  be  uniform 

In  the  past  some  classes  have  spent 
j  ears  reading  the  Scriptures  without 
any  aim,  and  little  children  have  been 
required  to  take  up  subjects  not  suited 
to  them;  subjects  away  beyond  their 
years.  "We  have  endeavored  to  get  up 
p.'ans  embodying  the  experience  of  the 
union  board,  stake  boards,  and  teachers 
of  ability,  and  by  the  first  of  Decem- 
ber we  hope  to  have  the  work  in  the 
hands  of  all  the  Sunday  schools  of  the 
Church,  that  the  teachers  may  begin 
their  work  on  the  first  Sunday  in  Jan- 
uary, 1903.  Teachers,  I  desire  to  call 
your  attention  to  the  importance  of 
preparation  on  your  part.  Some  of  the 
subjects  cannot  possibly  be  taught  by 
the  teachers  not  prepared  before  going 
to  their  classes. 

It  is  desired  that  teachers  should  be 
more  familiar  with  the  Scripture.  Read 
it  in  your  homes.    This  will  lead  the 


pupils  to  study,  and  if  the  children  real 
at  home  what  an  encouragement  it  will 
be  to  the  parents!  It  will  all  result  in 
families  gathering  around  the  fireside, 
reading  the  Scriptures  and  preparing 
i:ssons  for  the  next  Sunday.  Home 
reading  is  a  beautiful  habit  and  a  taste 
for  it  should  be  encouraged  by  exam- 
ple; it  is  not  enough  to  admonish  chil- 
dren to  read. 

I  have  been  asked  when  children 
should  be  taught  the  reading  habit,  and 
in  answer  I  would  say:  Before  they  are 
old  enough  to  read.  If  parents  them- 
selves will  adopt  the  practice  of  reading 
aloud  the  children  will  be  encouraged 
to  read  as  soon  as  they  are  able  to  do 
eo.  There  is  no  more  beautiful  habit 
than  for  a  father  or  mother  to  read  to 
their  children  in  the  evening.  It  will 
correct  pernicious  inclinations.  This 
new  plan  should  create  a  new  love  for, 
and  interest  in  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
Church  works.  The  first  volume  of 
the  History  of  the  Church  is  just  is- 
sued, and  it  should  be  in  the  home  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint,  as  it  is  pub- 
lished at  so  low  a  price  that  it  is  with- 
in the  reach  of  all. 

We  are  especially  anxious  to  encour  • 
age  self-effort  on  the  part  of  the  young 
that  they  may  realize  the  value  of  these 
good  books,  and  that  it  will  be  dis- 
creditable to  them  not  to  understand 
the  Scriptures  and  their  own  history. 
What  a  lovely  thing  it  is  to  see  a  model 
home!  It  is  a  credit  and  an  honor  to 
any  man  to  have  a  good  family,  and 
we  respect  those  God-fearing  men  who 
are  examples  in  the  homes  for  uphold- 
ing its  purity,  its  enlightenment  and  its 
stability.  We  better  help  our  country 
when  we  perform  our  duties  in  the 
home  and  in  the  Sunday  school. 

God  bless  our  leader,  a  man  among 
men,  fitted  in  every  way  to  stand  at 
the  head  of  this  great  work;  and  may 
all  who  labor  for  the  advancement  of 
the  Sunday  school  interests  find  their 
reward  a  thousand  fold;  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters:  I  re- 
joice in  seeing  the  interest  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  take  in  the  Sunday  school 


92 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


work.  This  is  the  largest  organization 
in  the  Church,  and  I  believe  in  every 
ward,  and  in  every  branch  of  the 
Church  where  there  are  children  we 
have  a  Sunday  school.  There  is  a  grow- 
ing desire  to  make  these  schools  inter- 
esting to  the  children.  I  am  pleased 
with  the  steps  taken  to  have  the  work 
laid  out  beforehand  and  the  lessons 
planned  so  that  the  teachers  and  chil- 
dren may  be  prepared  for  their  Sunday 
mornings'  work.  It  is  a  great  work: 
That  of  teaching  the  children  the  plan 
of  salvation  and  the  moral  law.  Our 
Sunday  schools  are  used  for  this  pur- 
pose. We  believe  there  is  hardly  an 
organization  in  the  Church  that  has 
such  far-reaching  consequences  as  the 
Sunday  school.  The  work  done  there  is 
not  only  for  the  present,  but  it  will 
leave  its  imprint  in  the  years  to  come. 

Sunday  school  teachers  should  be  ex- 
emplary men  who  teach  not  only  by 
precept  but  by  example.  If  you  want 
children  to  do  right  show  them  the 
way.  The  teacher  who  indulges  in 
things  forbidden  in  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom will  not  accomplish  much  in  teach- 
ing the  children.  The  little  ones  soon 
find  out  the  teacher's  way  and  manner 
of  living  and  the  effort  to  instruct  will 
be  in  vain.  If  you  want  to  have  in- 
fluence with  the  children  show  them 
that  you  are  in  earnest  and  believe 
what  you  teach  and  mean  it,  and  thus 
load  them  in  the  paths  of  virtue  and 
right. 

The  Sunday  school  is  not  only  for  the 
education  of  the  head  but  we  must 
reach  the  heart;  we  must  make  the 
children  love  that  which  is  right;  mah- 
them  love  virtue  for  virtue's  sake; 
make  them  have  an  abiding  faith  in 
God  their  Creator,  and  a  knowledge 
of  the  infinite  love  shown  to  all  man- 
kind by  the  Redeemer;  to  partake  of 
that  love  which  must  show  itself  in 
good  works. 

Teachers,  this  is  a  noble  work  in 
which  you  are  engaged.  Go  to  your 
secret  chamber  and  there  pray  that  th<- 
Spirit  of  God  may  be  with  you;  that 
you  may  secure  the  love  and  confidence 
of  the  little  ones  placed  in  your  care. 
And  that  you  may  succeed  in  this  great 
work  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


GENERAL,  SUPERINTENDENT 
JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I 
do  not  intend  to  say  very  much  on 
this  occasion.  There  are  many  breth- 
ren present  who  have  subjects  upon 
their  minds  and  I  desire  to  give  them 
aij  much  time  as  possible.  But  I  feel 
like  saying  something  in  relation  to 
our  children.  It  does  not  need  argu- 
ment to  convince  our  minds  that  our 
children  will  be  just  about  what  we 
make  them.  They  are  born  without 
knowledge  or  understanding — the  most 
helpless  creatures  of  the  animal  crea- 
tion born  intq^the  world.  The  little  one 
begins  to  learn  after  it  is  born,  and 
all  that  it  knows  greatly  depends  upon 
its  environment,  the  influences  under 
which  it  is  brought  up,  the  kindness 
with  which  it  Is  treated,  the  noble  ex- 
amples shown  it,  the  hallowed  influ- 
ences of  father  and  mother,  or  other- 
wise, over  its  infant  mind.  And  it  will 
be  largely  what  its  environment  and 
its  parents  and  teachers  make  it. 

The  child  of  the  lowest  of  our  na- 
tive tribes  born  in  a  wigwam  and  the 
child  born  in  luxury  start  out  almost 
equal  so  far  as  the  possibilities  of 
learning  are  concerned.  A  great  deal 
depends  upon  the  influences  under 
which  it  is  brought  up.  You  will  ob- 
serve that  the  most  potent  influence 
over  the  mind  of  a  child  to  persuade  it 
to  learn,  to  progress,  or  to  accomplish 
anything  is  the  influence  of  love.  More 
can  be  accomplished  for  good  by  un- 
feigned love,  in  bringing  up  a  child, 
than  by  any  other  influence  that  can  be 
brought  to  bear  upon  it.  A  child  that 
cannot  be  conquered  by  the  lash,  or 
subdued  by  violence,  may  be  controlled 
in  an  instant  by  unfeigned  affection 
and  sympathy.  I  know  this  is  true; 
and  this  principle  obtains  in  every 
condition  of  life. 

The  Sunday  school  teacher  should 
govern  the  children,  not  by  passion,  by 
bitter  words  or  scolding,  but  by  affec- 
tion and  by  winning  their  confidence.  If 
a  teacher  gets  the  confidence  of  a  child 
it  is  not  impossible  to  accomplish  every 
desired  good  with  that  child. 

I  would  have  it  understood  that  I  be- 
lieve that  the  greatest  law  and  com- 
mandment of  God  is  to  love  the  Lord 
our  God  with  all  our  mind,  might  and 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


1)3 


strength,  and  our  neighbors  as  our- 
selves; and  if  this  principle  is  observed 
at  home  the  brothers  and  sisters  will 
love  each  other,  they  will  be  kind  and 
helpful  to  one  another,  showing  forth 
the  principle  of  kindness  and  being 
solicitous  for  each  other's  good.  Under 
these  circumstances  the  home  comes 
nearer  being  a  heaven  on  earth,  and 
children  brought  up  under  these  influ- 
ences will  never  forget  them,  and 
though  they  may  be  in  trying  places 
their  memories  will  revert  to  the  homes 
where  they  enjoyed  such  hallowed  in- 
fluences, and  their  better  natures  will 
assert  themselves  no  matter  what  the 
trials  or  temptations  may  be. 

Brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Sunday 
school,  I  emplore  you  to  teach  and  con- 
trol by  the  spirit  of  love  and  forbear- 
ance until  you  can  conquer.  If  children 
are  defiant  and  difficult  to  control,  be 
patient  with  them  until  you  can  con- 
quer by  love  and  you  will  have  gained 
their  souls,  and  you  can  then  mould 
their  characters  as  you  please. 

Sometimes  children  do  not  like  their 
teachers,  and  the  teachers  are  impa- 
tient with  the  children  and  complain 
of  them  as  being  very  uncouth,  uncon- 
trollable and  bad.  The  children  in  their 
turn  tell  their  parents  honv  they  despise 
their  teacher  and  say  they  don't  want 
to  go  to  school  any  more  because  the 
teacher  is  so  cross.  I  have  heard  of 
these  things  and  know  them  to  be  true. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  children  say  to 
father  or  mother,  "We  think  we  have 
the  best  teacher  in  the  world  in  our 
Sunday  School,"  or  "We  have  the  best 
teacher  in  our  district  school  that  ever 
lived,"  it  proves  that  those  teachers 
have  won  the  affections  of  the  children, 
and  the  little  ones  are  as  clay  in  the 
hands  of  the  potter  to  be  moulded  in  any 
shape  desired.  This  is  the  position  you 
teachers  should  occupy,  and  if  you  get 
their  affections  this  will  be  the  report 
the  children  will  make  regarding  you. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

"Scatter  Seeds  of  Kindness"  was 
beautifully  sung  by  a  ladies'  quartette 
from  the  Eleventh  ward,  Salt  Lakt 
City.  The  quartette  was  composed  of 
Sisters  Maggie  Bassett,  Etta  Felt,  Olive 
Cushing  and  Anna  "Vine. 


JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
during  the  few  moments  I  may  address 
you  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  dictate  my  remarks. 

Previous  to  coming  to  this  meeting 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
met  with  the  stake  superintendents; 
and  one  of  the  subjects  spoken  upon 
at  that  meeting  I  desire  to  speak  of 
here.  I  have  reference  to  cottage  Sun- 
day Schools  and  to  looking  after  wards 
which  have  no  Sunday  Schools  estab- 
lished. 

Some  years  ago  in  a  near-by  stake 
there  was  a  certain  mining  camp  with- 
out any  Sunday  School  organization.  A 
brother  was  called  upon  a  mission  to 
visit  the  locality,  search  out  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  effect  an  organization. 
He  did  so,  and  by  the  blessing  of  the 
Lord  his  efforts  were  crowned  with 
success.  A  Sunday  School  was  organ- 
ized, and  it  has  grown  and  increased 
from  that  day  to  the  present  and  has 
done  some  glorious  work.  On  one  fast 
day,  early  in  the  spring,  some  sixteen 
baptisms  took  place,  and  most  of  the 
subjects  were  children  taught  in  that 
Sunday  School,  but  whose  parents  were 
not  of  our  faith.  This  is  but  one  in- 
stance of  several  which  have  occurred 
in  Utah. 

Now,  brethren,  you  who  have  been 
called  to  be  watchmen  upon  the  tow- 
ers of  Zion,  when  you  go  home  look 
into  the  nooks  and  corners  of  your 
stakes  and  see  if  there  are  not  many 
children  who  need  the  bread  of  life.  We 
do  not  desire  to  interfere  with  the 
duties  of  the  bishops,  but  it  is  our 
duty  to  do  all  that  we  can  toward  get- 
ting every  child  in  Zion  to  attend  Sun- 
day School. 

Our  average  attendance  is  altogether 
too  low.  Some  Sunday  Schools  report 
an  average  attendance  of  as  low  as  fif- 
ty and  fifty-five  per  cent.  I  speak  ad- 
visedly when  I  say  that  there  are  some 
places  within  the  organized  stakes  of 
Zion  where  there  have  been  no  meet- 
ings of  any  kind  held  for  two  years. 
These  are  places,  too,  in  near-by  local- 
ities, and  there  are  many  children  there 
who  are  anxious  to  be  baptized.  What 
is  needed  is  some  attention  to  the  mat- 


94 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ter  by  the  brethren  whose  duty  it  is  to 
look  after  the  sheep  of  Christ's  fold.  It 
is  my  mission  and  yours  to  work  while 
it  is  yet  day.  Think  of  it  for  one  mo- 
ment! Consider  the  numbers  of  our 
youth  throughout  the  Church  who 
should  be  in  the  Sunday  Schools,  and 
who  are  not.  We  plod  along  from  one 
week  to  another  and  allow  these  souls 
to  decay.  "We  are  willing  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
this  is  right.  It  should  be  so.  We  all 
understand  the  God-given  feeling  we 
experience  when  we  take  the  candidate 
into  the  waters  of  baptism.'  But  I  want 
to  say  that  it  is  just  as  important  to 
save  souls  in  Zion  as  in  the  ten  thous- 
ands of  cities  in  foreign  climes.  Re- 
member the  cottage  Sunday  Schools, 
establish  them  wherever  needed,  and 
seek  to  care  for  the  lambs  God  has 
given  to  your  care.  Remember  the  sug- 
gestions given  by  the  Savior  to  Peter, 
"Feed  my  lambs." 

That  we  may  have  power  to  work 
righteously  for  the  Sunday  School  cause 
as  we  should  do,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  HENRY  PETERSON. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  While  I 
stand  before  you  I  trust  I  may  be  guid- 
ed by  the  same  Spirit  as  were  those  w^o 
have  spoken  before  me.  President 
Smith  in  his  remarks  spoke  of  o  le  great 
qualification  that  every  teacher  should 
possess,  namely,  the  spirit  of  love  for 
the  pupils.  A  teacher  who  has  that  one 
great  qualification  will  probably  acquire 
all  others  necessary  to  the  successful 
doing  of  his  work.  Love  inspires  him 
with  a  desire  to  benefit  those  placed 
under  his  watchcare.  He  studies  their 
needs  and  prepares  himself  to  supply 
his  class  with  the  necessary  spiritual 
food. 

A  teacher  filled  with  love  for  his 
students  learns  to  love  the  Gospel  as  the 
means  by  which  he  can  lead  them  into 
the  right  kind  of  spiritual  life  and  draw 
them  nearer  to  the  Master.  He  enjoys 
searching  the  Scriptures  and  leads  oth- 
ers into  that  same  enjoyment.  He  car- 
ries a  life  into  the  class  that  is  felt  by 


all  present  and  leads  them  to  regularity 
of  attendance. 

A  teacher  who  loves  his  pupils  will 
seek  unto  the  Lord  for  assistance  that 
he  may  be  helpful  to  them.  He  will  thus 
acquire  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  whose 
mission  it  is  to  bring  to  remembrance 
things  past  and  to  show  things  to  come; 
and  which  gives  the  power  of  discern- 
ment that  he  may  see  the  needs  of 
others  and  be  instrumental  in  supplying 
them. 

If  the  hearts  of  all  who  are  called  to 
teach  were  filled  with  love,  it  would 
not  be  necessary  for  others  to  plan  for 
them.  That  feeling  would  prompt  them 
to  make  the  necessary  outside  prepara- 
tion, and  the  Spirit  of  God  would  use 
them  as  instruments  and  guide  them 
into  natural  and  wholesome  methods  of 
work.  Instead  of  cramming  the  minds 
of  pupils  mechanically  with  disconnect- 
ed religious  and  historical  facts,  they 
would  give  them  the  daily  bread  of 
spiritual  life. 

As  the  qualification  mentioned  does 
not  universally  inspire  teachers  and 
spur  all  on  to  the  right  kind  of  effort, 
the  plans  of  which  have  been  spoken 
have  been  prepared.  Their  chief  value 
will  be  that  they  aid  the  teacher  to 
make  the  proper  outside  preparation. 
A  commendable  feature  of  the  plans 
being  prepared  is  that  they  do  not  do 
the  work  for  the  teacher.  The  lessons 
are  not  prepared  for  the  teacher,  nor 
can  he  prepare  them  from  the  plans; 
but  if  he  is  willing  to  put  forth  effort 
the  plans  will  guide  him  in  making  the 
right  kind  of  preparation  directly  from 
the  Scriptures. 

The  plans  will  help  him  to  make  this 
preparation  easily  and  to  find  the  most 
inspiring  parts  of  the  scripture. 

.It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  plans  will 
be  properly  received  and  used,  and  that 
they  will  help  teachers  to  get  inspira- 
tion from  the  scriptures  and  a  love  for 
their  work  and  for  the  children  whom 
they  teach.  May  God  grant  the  aid  of 
His  Spirit  and  fill  the  teachers  will  love 
for  their  pupils,  that  they  may  be  suc- 
cessful in  winning  souls  to  Christ. 
Amen. 

"The  Pilgrim's  Song  of  Hope"  was 
then  rendered  upon  tbje  great  organ  by 
Prof.  John  J.  McClellan. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


95 


ELDER  HORACE  CUMMINGS. 

To  say  that  I  am  surprised  to  be 
called  upon  to  address  this  congrega- 
tion would  be  a  mild  representation  of 
my  feelings;  but  I  trust  with  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  I  may  be  able  to  say  some- 
thing of  interest  to  you  and  to  me  in 
connection  with  the  subject  of  children. 

One  phase  of  the  remarks  of  Presi - 
ident  Smith  struck  me  with  force.  He 
stated  that  the  characters  of  our  chil- 
dren are  about  as  we  make  them. 

Eut  we  do  not  apply  this  fact  as  we 
should  do.  If  we  wish  to  become  me- 
chanics we  find  it  necessary  to  be  ap- 
prenticed to  learn  the  trade.  If  we  are 
to  practice  medicine,  we  must  study 
the  human  body  and  how  it  responds  to 
treatment.  But  we  get  married  and  be- 
gin to  rear  families  without  giving  any. 
or  but  little,  consideration  to  the  nature 
of  the  children  we  bring  into  the  world. 
We  often  rebuke  them  in  the  most 
bungling  and  hurtful  manner.  The 
time  has  come  when  more  attention 
must  be  given  to  the  training  of  the 
young. 

A  little  incident  which  occurred  in 
my  neighborhood  recently  will  show 
how  thoughtless  we  sometimes  are  in 
correcting  our  children.  A  good  mother 
who  had  been  toiling  hard  all  day  found 
herself  somewhat  behind  in  her  work 
of  getting  supper  in  the  evening.  She 
was  tired,  nervous,  and  worried  lest  it 
should  not  be  ready  by  the  time  her 
husband  returned  from  work.  Her  little 
daughter,  six  years  of  age,  was  helping 
her  by  tending  the  baby  as  best  she 
could,  but  the  baby  was  fretful  and 
would  cry  in  spite  of  the  best  atten- 
tions the  little  sister  could  give.  "May- 
be baby  is  hungry,"  said  the  little  girl, 
"I'll  get  him  some  milk."  So  saying, 
she  laid  him  in  the  crib  and  hurried  in- 
to the  pantry  and  got  him  a  glass  of 
milk.  In  her  hurry  and  anxiety— for  the 
baby  was  crying — she  stubbed  her  toe 
and  fell,  spilling  the  milk  on  the  car- 
pet. The  mother,  without  inquiring  in- 
to the  motives  of  the  child,  flew  into  a 
passion,  rushed  up  and  gave  the  little 
girl  a  smart  blow  on  the  head  and 
called  her  a  naughty  girl  for  making 
such  a  grease  spot  on  the  carpet.  The 
little  girl,  who  had  been  doing  her  besc 


to  help  her  mother,  shrank  into  a  cor- 
ner broken-hearted  at  the  treatment 
she  had  received. 

What  a  grave  mistake  this  mother 
made!  How  little  consideration  she 
gave  to  the  motives  of  the  child,  or  the 
real  effects  of  the  punishment!  Could 
that  child  continue  long  to  love  and  re- 
respect  that  mother  under  such  unwise 
treatment?  Punishment  may  be  neces- 
sary at  times,  but  we  should  be  care- 
ful and  know  that  we  are  right  in  giv- 
ing it. 

The  same  error  often  occurs  in  giv- 
ing instructions.  Sometimes  we  are 
clear  upon  a  certain  point  ourselves, 
but  cannot  get  out  thoughts  down  to 
the  capacity  or  condition,  of  the  chil- 
dren. For  instance,  on  a  recent  trip  I 
visited  a  certain  class  of  pupils  who 
were  from  six  to  eight  years  of  age.  The 
teacher  was  trying  to  explain  the  pas- 
sage from  Isaiah  which  speaks  of  sev- 
en women  taking  hold  of  one  man. 
What  would  little  children  know  about 
such  a  subject?  The  subject  as  well 
as  its  treatment  should  be  suited  to  the 
child.  Other  lessons  from  the  Bible 
might  have  been  given  with  profit,  in- 
deed, the  greatest  good  may  be  derived 
by  the  use  of  the  beautiful,  simple  stor- 
ies which  the  Scriptures  contain. 
Through  them  impressions  may  be 
made  upon  the  young  mind  that  will 
never  be  forgotten,  and  ever  exert  a 
good  influence  over  their  lives.  But 
they  must  be  chosen  and  presented 
wisely. 

Our  children  are  the  greatest  bless- 
ing God  can  give  us,  and  we  should  be- 
stow more  attention  and  study  upon 
child  nature.  Inquire  into  their  mo- 
tives, and  give  our  best  thought  to  their 
training. 

The  plans  prepared  are  good  ones  for 
live  teachers,  but  they  are  not  good  for 
lazy  ones.  Some  people  think  it  a  sin  to 
prepare  a  lesson  beforehand.  I  re- 
member a  story  told  by  Brother  Mae- 
ser.  This  beloved  teacher  once  visited 
a  theological  class,  the  teacher  of  which 
went — as  Brother  Maeser  expressed  it — 
from  "Dan  to  Beersheba"  and  "from 
Genesis  to  Revelation"  in  his  address 
to  the  class,  without  making  clear  any 
point  or  principle.  Brother  Maeser,  at 
the  proper  time  and  place,  asked  him 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


what  preparations  he  had  made  for 
that  recitation.  The  teacher  in  evident 
surprise  answered,  "I  never  make  any. 
I  don't  propose  to  lariat  the  Spirit  of 
God."  "My  dear  brother,"  responded 
Brother  Maeser,  "let  me  assure  you 
there  was  not  a  particle  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  in  all  your  teaching  this  morn- 
ing." 

Read  one  of  the  lessons  on  the  sub- 
ject in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
were  both  blessed  with  the  gift  to 
translate.  Oliver  lost  it  and  the  revela- 
tion tells  us  why.  He  thought  all 
he  had  to  do  was  to  ask  God 
and  he  would  get  the  translation 
without  further  effort.  Because  he 
did  not  exercise  his  own  mind,  to 
think  it  out,  his  gift  was  taken  away. 
So  with  the  teacher.  The  plan  is  given 
you  from  the  Union  Board.  Take  each 
lesson,  think  it  out,  ask  God's  blessing 
upon  it,  and  give  it  your  best  effort; 
■your  gift  will  grow;  you  will  succeed. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 
It  is  a  great  thing  to  be  one  of  an 
organization  of  this  kind,  and  be  identi- 
fied with  a  cause  represented  by  such 
numbers.  I  thought  while  looking  over 
this  immense  congregation  that  we 
might  search  the  world  in  vain  for  a 
similar  gatherings  on  Sunday  School  or 
auxiliary  matters.  And  this  occasion  is 
not  a  unique  one  amongst  us;  for  twice 
every  year  thousands  gather  here  in  the 
interest  of  the  Sunday  School  cause. 

You  will  learn  doubtless  from  what 
has  been  said  by  the  brethren  that 
much  improvement  is  evident  in  the 
Sunday  School  work.  I  rejoice  in  this 
improvement  but  still  think  there  is 
room  for  greater  advancement.  You 
will  also  gather  from  what  has  been 
said  that  we  cannot  get  to  a  condition 
when  we  are  beyond  doing  better.  If  I 
thought  I  could  get  to  a  heaven  where 
there  was  no  advancement  possible,  I 
don't  believe  I  should  want  to  go  there. 

When  we  feel  that  we  have  done  the 
best  possible  we  should. give  God  the 
glory  and  say  "That  and  better  will 
do."  One  characteristic  of  true  perfec- 
tion is  the  capacity  for  improvement 
and  progress.  Development  is  a  char- 
acteristic of  everything  that  lives. 


Reference  has  been  made  to  teachers 
who  do  not  teach  in  the  way  to  make 
the  most  lasting  impression.  Now, 
something  depends  upon  the  dress  of 
the  teacher;  and  a  failure  is  often 
traced  to  the  fact  that  a  teacher  is  not 
dressed  right.  Much  of  the  impression 
we  make  on  those  with  whom  we  come 
in  contact  depends  upon  our  dress  and 
address.  I  do  not  refer  to  the  manner- 
isms of  society,  nor  to  the  cut  of  the 
coat,  the  style  of  the  gown  or  to  the 
flowers  and  feathers  on  the  hat,  but  to 
the  clothing  of  the  spirit.  The  teach- 
ers should  wear  the  garment  of  their 
calling  in  Sunday  School  or  they  will 
never  make  the  impression  necessary. 

When  the  garment  of  Elijah  fell  up- 
on his  successor  it  was  manifested  that 
the  spirit  of  his  calling  was  transmit- 
ted. Without  this  spirit  we  cannot  ac- 
complish anything.  So,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  strive  for  it,  work  for  it 
and  the  spirit  of  your  calling  will  en- 
gender the  spirit  of  industry — God  fear- 
ing industry,  which  will  bring  with  it 
efficiency  in  the  work  to  which  you 
have  been  appointed. 

My  heart  bounded  with  joy  in  listen- 
ing to  the  voice  of  authority  calling  up- 
on the  teachers  to  prepare  by  study  and 
earnest  effort  for  their  work  and  not 
expect  the  Lord  to  do  it  all  for  us.  That 
injunction  would  at  one  time  have  been 
considered  heresy,  at  least  by  a  few. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  comes  to  him 
who  seeks  for  it.  I  find  I  can  prepare 
a  lesson  at  home  in  as  prayerful  a  spir- 
it and  with  as  much  of  the  influence  of 
the  Lord,  as  if  I  stood  here  and  at- 
tempted to  talk  to  you  on  the  subject. 

When  we  pray  for  all  we  undertake 
then  will  we  have  the  Divine  influence 
always  with  us.  This  is  the  way  to 
fulfill  the  admonition,  "Pray  ye  without 
ceasing." 

Some  teachers  are  veritable  proph- 
ets, bringing  out  things  suitable  for  ev- 
ery occasion.  The  spirit  of  a  calling  en- 
ables one  to  overcome  every  obstacle. 

When  I  am  called  by  authority  to 
perform  a  certain  mission  if  I  have  the 
spirit  of  my  calling  I  feel  that  I  am 
better  able  to  do  it  than  is  any  other 
man,  because  it  is  my  calling,  my 
authorized  labor;  and  I  can  go  forth, 
confidently,  knowing  that  the  Lord  nev- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


it- 


er calls  a  man  to  perform  any  work 
without  opening  the  way  for  him  to  do 
it. 

The  following'  question,  handed  in, 
has  been  given  me  to  answer: 

"What  should  be  done  with  a  mem- 
ber of  the  superintendency  or  a  teacher 
in  a  Sunday  School  who  does  not  ob- 
serve the  Word  of  Wisdom?" 

It  is  not  my  function  to  give  a  law 
on  this  matter,  but  I  will  say  this:  That 
a  teacher  who  professes  to  be  directed 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  who  vio- 
lates the  spirit  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
will  not  have  that  spirit  in  strength  to 
enable  him  to  realize  what  is  intended. 
Such  a  teacher  should  be  labored  with 
and  an  effort  made  to  bring  him  to  the 
proper  standard.  I  don't  believe  there 
are  very  many  teachers  who  are  not 
observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We 
are  all  trying  to  secure  the  same  glory 
and  we  cannot  continue  to  do  an  evil  or 
the  Spirit  of  God  will  cease  to  strive 
with  Js,  and  that  man  who  persists  in 
breaking  the  law  of  God  is  bereft  of  his 
power  as  truly  as  was  Sampson  when 
his  locks  were  shorn  from  his  head. 

We  must  live  by  the  law  of  God. 
Look  around  you  and  you  can  tell  the 
men  and  women  who  are  what  they 
pretend  to  be;  not  those  with  lips  ever 
guarded  lest  they  show  what  is  within, 
but  those  who  show  purity  by  every 
act.  I  testify  from  experience  that 
when  I  obey  the  laws  of  righteousness 
the  Lord  comes  to  my  help.  And  a 
teacher  who  is  thus  governed  and  who 
prepares  a  lecture  or  address  upon  the 
Scriptures  puts  forth  the  very  spirit 
of  the  Scriptures. 

In  teaching  put  away  the  disposition 
to  present  personal  theories.  We  have 
no  authority  to  interfere  with  individ- 
ual opinions;  but  neither  you  nor  I 
have  any  right  to  teach  a  principle  or 
doctrine  as  a  tenet  of  the  Church  un- 
less it  has  been  sanctioned  by  the 
Church  or  the  authorities.  We  are  not 
to  let  fads  lead  us  away.  I  was  de- 
lighted with  a  couple  of  articles  on  fads 
and  hobbies  recently  printed  in  the  Ju- 
venile Instructor  over  the  signature  of 
General  Superintendent  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  I  could  read  in  it  the  spirit  of 
revelation. 

The  Spirit  of  God  will  not  tell  you 
that  a  thing  is  true  and  tell  someone 


else  that  it  is  false.  If  I  speak  tonight 
and  you  do  not  find  an  echo  of  the  truth 
of  it  in  your  hearts  it  is  because  I  am 
not  truthful  or  you  don't  know  the 
truth  when  you  hear  it. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  home. 
I  recently  paid  a  visit  to  one  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  I  asked  the  superin- 
tendent, a  very  earnest  man  and  the 
very  man  for  the  place,  what  was  the 
greatest  difficulty  he  had  to  contend 
with.  He  answered  that  he  had  the 
most  trouble  on  account  of  a  lack  of 
interest  among  parents.  A  teacher  will 
be  faithful  Sunday  after  Sunday  and 
then  of  a  sudden  she  is  absent  from 
school,  off  to  the  lake  or  some  other 
place  of  recreation  or  amusement.  The 
mother  says  to  the  daughter:  "You 
have  been  very  punctual  for  a  long 
time  and  there  is  no  harm  in  taking  a 
day  off  for  a  rest."  Sundays  are  not 
given  to  us  for  that  purpose,  and  that 
mother  was  not  doing  her  duty.  The 
Sunday  School  work  is  not  so  arduous 
that  we  have  to  take  a  day  off  to  rest 
up. 

I  rejoice  in  the  good  work  of  our 
teachers:  I  rejoice  that  the  harvest  is 
coming  in  forty  and  fifty  fold.  I  hope 
it  may  soon  be  one  hundred,  yes  two 
hundred  fold,  and  on  without  limit  or 
stop.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  M.  TANNER. 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  outline  plans  will  be  pub- 
lished in  pamphlet  form;  not  all  of  the 
departments  in  one,  because  the  teach- 
ers in  the  primary  department  may  not 
want  to  use  the  theological  plans  and 
vice  versa.  The  parts  will  be  published 
for  a  very  few  cents.  The  plans  are 
merely  sketches  and  model  lessons  will 
be  published  from  time  to  time  in  the 
Juvenile  Instructor.  The  Juvenile  In- 
structor, by  the  way,  is  the  organ  of 
the  great  Sunday  School  organization, 
and  President  Smith  has  taken  a  great 
interest  in  it  and  uses  it  as  one  of  the 
channels  to  communicate  his  thoughts 
to  the  Saints  throughout  the  Church. 

The  congregation  sang  the  "Doxol- 
ogy"  and  the  conference  adjourned 
with  the  benediction  of  Assistant  Su- 
perintendent George  Reynolds. 

GEO.  D.  PYPER,  Secretary. 


C/5 


Deseret  Mews  BookStore  I 


-k 
-k 

*  _-.__,    „   ,    -    .     _  ,    »  »        _  _^ 

J         .  Are  preparing  for  the  J 

«k  .  ,  ..■■■-■i7r- 

!  LARGEST  DISPLAY  OF  I 

-k 

-k 

*  T  T/NV     TTN    ATT        ^  ✓"N.  _<""V  T~"V  * 


f  HOLIDAY  GOODS  * 


* 

-k  jf 

*  Ever  brought  to  this  Market.  * 

-k  * 

* 


J  Books,  Dolls,  Toys  $ 

i  and  Novelties 


{  Id  endless  variety,  IMPORTED  DIRECT  FOR  US.  J 

j                 Highest  Grade  and  Lowest  Prices.  J 

*                       Look  out  for  our  Opening.  J 

1       iMfl      -  :  fl  Ml  I 

* 

_______                                                               .  * 

|                  SUCCESSORS  TO  CANNON'S.  J 

t  * 

i 


i 

-k 

1  Deseret  News  Book  Store 


+,1********************  ********  ************.*********+ 


