OnsL  diwubwd,  fciqhhswik. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

COnf£R€riC€ 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

♦ 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Odtobsh,  3,  band  S,  1%7 

With  Report  of  Discourses 
♦ 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


difL  lA.  calfajcL . . . 

"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have 
been  made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected/  dis- 
credited or  abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET....$3.0Q 


By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3-00 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   $2.50 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT  $1.50 

By  Nephi  L.  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  about  him  is  the  caliber 
of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what  they  ac- 
complished under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of  their 
testimonies: 


BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 

HIS  WORK   $2.50 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER  $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS   $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON   «o  nn 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Eighteenth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Eighteenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October 
3,  4,  and  5,  1947. 

General  Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10  a.m.  and  2 
p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting  convened  Saturday  evening  at  7:00. 

The  full  services  of  each  of  the  sessions  were  broadcast  over 
KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following  stations: 
KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL 
at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  at  each 
of  the  sessions.  He  also  conducted  the  services  Sunday  morning, 
Saturday  afternoon  and  Sunday  afternoon.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services 
Friday  afternoon  and  Sunday  morning;  and  President  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  ser- 
vices at  the  Saturday  morning  session. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency  :  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  F.  Richards, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph 
F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  and  Henry 
D.  Moyle. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church  :    Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Marion  G. 
Romney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young.* 

The  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  **,  Milton  R.  Hunter, 
and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

Officers^and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder  :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

*Elder  Alma  Sonne  was  in  Europe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
**  Elder  Seymour  Dilworth  Young  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  New  Eng- 
land Mission. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  Fitst  Day 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  and  Seminary  Supervisor. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards  and 
their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High  Priests, 
Seventies,  Elders,  General  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary  As- 
sociations, from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Friday  morning, 
October  3,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  George  Albert  Smith  pre- 
siding and  conducting  the  meeting. 

The  building,  auditorium  and  galleries,  was  fully  occupied,  every 
available  seat  being  taken. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  are  happy  to  see  you  all  here  this  morning  and  hope  that 
you  are  comfortable  in  your  seats  and  that  everybody  can  obtain 
seats.  It  is  a  glorious  morning  to  begin  our  conference,  and  I  am 
sure  we  have  everything  to  be  grateful  for  in  this  wonderful  world. 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  1 1 8th  Semi- Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in  Europe  in  charge 
of  the  European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dilworth  Young,  Presi- 
dent of  the  New  England  Mission. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

This  full  service  will  be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  services  this  afternoon  beginning  at  2:00  p.m.; 
likewise  the  services  tomorrow  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m.;  likewise 

•!ifCra  C\°n  Sunday  at  10:00  a-m-  and  2:00  p.m.  By  arrangement 
with  KbL  these  same  sessions  will  be  broadcast  over  the  following 

£fvv:  f  DDSHif  B£&C;£SUB  at  Cedar  City>  KID  at  Ida*o  Falls 
£™  0Cat*il0>  Kt.SVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and 
over  K1YL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to 
be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal 
of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds.  Every- 
one would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  announcements. 

Snr«Pfi%-«  °-,r  S1^mi  rng  tod,ay's  sessi°ns  will  be  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the  Central  Utah  Region.  Sister 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  3 


Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  is  the  conductor;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper, 
the  organist. 

The  first  song  will  be: 

"The  Heavens  Resound" — (Beethoven). 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Israel  Hoyt 
Chamberlain  of  the  Kanab  Stake,  Kanab,  Utah. 

(Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers — "The  Heavens  Resound.") 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Israel  Hoyt 
Chamberlain,  Kanab  Stake. 

Selection  by  the  Sinqinq  Mothers,  "O  Savior  Hear  Me" — 
(Gluck).  9 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  very  grateful  this  morning  to  be  able  to  be  here  at  this 
session  of  the  conference.  It  seems  incredible  that  there  could  be 
so  much  quiet  and  peace  and  comfort,  yes,  luxury,  in  this  part  of  the 
world  today,  while  in  many  other  parts  of  the  world  people  are  suf- 
fering for  the  necessities  of  life,  and  there  appears  to  be  no  hope  of 
peace  in  those  sections,  in  fact,  in  any  section,  for  a  long  time. 

We  are  met  this  morning  in  worship.  I  see  in  the  audience,  to- 
day, prominent  officials  of  the  state,  our  educational  institutions, 
missionary  representatives,  and  people  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 
I  think  I  should  mention  this  morning  that  we  have  here  with  us 
the  grandson  of  a  great  friend  of  the  Church  in  early  days,  Colonel 
Thomas  L.  Kane,  who  offered  his  life  that  he  might  preserve  the 
people  in  this  valley,  and  the  Lord  preserved  him  to  do  his  work,  and 
he  returned  home  safely.  Today  we  feel  grateful  that  his  grandson 
is  here.  We  hope  that  he  will  enjoy  being  with  the  people  for  whom 
his  grandfather  sacrificed  so  much. 

It  was  eighty-nine  years  ago  that  Colonel  Kane  visited  here, 
but  one  hundred  years  ago  the  first  general  conference  was  held  in 
this  valley.   I  think  you  would  like  to  know  just  about  what  happened. 

Events  of  1 00  Years  Ago 

The  conference  meetings  began  on  Sunday,  October  3,  and 
continued  until  Friday,  October  8.  During  that  period  the  weather 
in  Salt  Lake  City  was  warm.  Brigham  Young  was  sustained  as 
President  of  the  whole  Church.  The  Twelve  Apostles  were  sustained 
with  the  exception  of  Lyman  Wight,  who  was  left  until  he  came 
in  person,  which  he  did  not  do.  An  epistle  from  the  Twelve  was 
read  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  accepted  by  the  Saints.  Charles  C. 
Rich  and  John  Young  were  elected  counselors  to  President  John 
Smith;  Father  John  Smith,  who  was  my  great-grandfather,  was 
sustained  as  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion,  and  as  patri- 
arch to  the  Church. 

It  does  not  seem  possible  that  we  are  talking  about  a  hundred 
years  ago.  At  that  time  Henry  G.  Sherwood,  Thomas  Grover,  Levi 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

Jackman,  John  Murdock,  Daniel  Spencer,  Lewis  Abbott,  Ira  Eld' 
redge,  Edson  Whipple,  Shadrach  Roundy,  John  Vance,  Willard 
Snow,  and  Abram  O.  Smoot  were  elected  members  of  the  high  coun- 
cil. Charles  C.  Rich  was  also  elected  chief  military  commander. 
Albert  Carrington  was  elected  clerk,  historian  and  deputy  post- 
master for  the  city.  John  Van  Cott  was  elected  marshall  of  the 
city — all  this  was  one  hundred  years  ago! 

Several  companies  of  emigrating  Saints  arrived  in  Salt  Lake  City 
on  Monday,  October  4.  The  presidency  of  the  stake  and  the  high 
council  met  in  Great  Salt  Lake  City  for  the  first  time  at  7  p.m.,  at 
which  meeting  they  considered  the  advisability  of  building  mills  on 
City  Creek  and  on  Mill  Creek. 

On  Tuesday  the  presidency  of  the  stake  and  the  high  council 
met  at  9  a.m.  and  appointed  a  committee  to  lay  out  farming  land.  The 
city  had  been  surveyed,  and  they  were  now  getting  ready  to  move 
out  a  little  farther.  Other  companies  of  pioneers  arrived  in  Salt 
Lake  City  on  this  date. 

The  presidency  of  the  stake  and  high  council  met  on  October  6. 
and  appointed  a  committee  to  see  that  the  fort  had  proper  gates 
made  for  it.    Also  Henry  G.  Sherwood  was  continuing  his  survey. 

Nancy  Rich,  mother  of  Charles  C.  Rich,  was  buried  beside  the 
grave  of  Caroline  Grant,  a  short  distance  southeast  of  the  Fort, 
which  was  out  in  the  southwest  part  of  the  city. 

The  last  families  of  emigrating  Saints  arrived  in  Salt  Lake  City 
on  Friday,  October  8.  There  were  about  two  thousand  people  in  the 
valley  at  this  time. 

I  thought  that  this  might  bring  to  your  minds  some  things  that 
would  be  of  interest  to  you.  It  is  wonderful  to  think  that  this  marvel- 
ous land  we  live  in,  then  desert,  now  is  as  the  garden  of  the  Lord,  and 
to  realize  that  our  Heavenly  Father  preserved  the  people  and  opened 
the  way  for  them  to  multiply  and  increase  until  today  we  have  here 
m  this  valley  every  comfort,  every  convenience,  almost  every  blessing 
that  you  can  think  of  which  is  enjoyed  in  any  part  of  the  world. 

Walking  Stick  of  Thomas  L.  Kane 

In  view  of  the  visit  here  of  the  Honorable  E.  Kent  Kane,  the 
grandson  of  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane,  I  brought  with  me  this  walking 
stick  which  1  hold  in  my  hand.  It  was  given  to  my  great-grand- 
father, John  Smith  by  Colonel  Kane  as  a  result  of  their  friendship. 
Ihey  were  great  friends  before  either  came  to  Salt  Lake  Valley, 
having  become  acquainted  during  the  exodus  of  our  people  from 
Nauvoo.  This  walking  stick  was  handed  down  from  John  Smith, 
to  George  /V  Smith,  my  grandfather,  then  to  John  Henry  Smith,  my 

^'^iSTiv. me  and  has  been  passed  down  to  my  son' 

n»rnl  ?T9ht  *  rai9^t1befof  interest  to  go  back  into  that  history, 

of  thp  S  7  VieT  the  faCt  ? at  we  are  honored  by  the  presence 
o  the  grandson  of  the  man  who  gave  this  cane.  It  came  from  the 
hickory  grove  at  the  Old  Hermitage  near  Nashville.  Twas^gwen 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  5 


by  Andrew  Jackson,  the  man  who  became  president  of  the  United 
States,  and  who  owned  the  Hermitage  and  lived  there,  to  Thomas 
L.  Kane,  and  he  passed  it  to  John  Smith  who  became  the  first  presi- 
dent of  the  stake  in  this  valley. 

Today,  instead  of  having  only  two  thousand  members  of  the 
Church  in  this  valley,  we  have  more  than  four  thousand  missionaries 
of  the  Church  in  the  world  who  are  sharing  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  with  the  children  of  men — the  largest  number  that  have  ever 
been  in  the  world  at  any  one  time. 

Temple  Square 

Hundreds  of  incidents  could  be  narrated  here,  if  there  were 
time,  that  would  be  of  interest  to  this  particular  audience.  Today 
we  are  met  in  the  great  Tabernacle  that  is  known  the  world  over 
because  from  this  building  each  week  for  more  than  seventeen  years 
has  gone  a  broadcast  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  great  organ 
which  has  been  carried  to  nearly  all  parts  of  the  civilized  world.  This 
Tabernacle,  of  course,  a  hundred  years  ago  had  not  been  thought  of. 
Since  that  time  on  this  block  we  have  the  Tabernacle  which  holds 
10,000  people  and  is  one  of  the  most  delightful  places  in  the  world 
to  meet  in;  we  have  the  great  temple;  we  have  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation; we  have  the  little  old  log  cabin  that  used  to  be  over  on 
First  North  Street,  and  the  Assembly  Hall,  all  in  this  ten  acre  square. 
And  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  square  is  adorned,  not 
only  by  these  buildings,  but  by  monuments  and  markers  in  honor 
of  those  who  have  passed  on,  and  is  beautified  by  gardens  of  flowers, 
and  shrubs,  and  trees.  It  is  one  of  the  most  attractive  squares  in  all 
the  world. 

Relief  for  European  Saints 

Word  comes  from  our  people  in  Europe.  In  many  cases  they 
are  still  having  difficult  times,  but  they  are  faithful,  in  the  main,  to 
God  and  the  Church,  and  the  messages  that  they  send  us  from  time 
to  time  in  expressing  gratitude  for  food,  clothing,  and  bedding  we 
have  sent  them  warm  our  hearts. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  you  to  know  that  since  World  War  II 
closed,  more  than  seventy-five  major  carloads  of  food  and  clothing 
and  bedding  have  been  snipped  across  the  sea  to  those  needy  people 
over  there,  without  any  expense  to  them  whatsoever. 

Visit  to  President  Truman 

When  the  war  was  over,  I  went  representing  the  Church,  to 
see  the  president  of  the  United  States.  When  I  called  on  him,  he 
received  me  very  graciously — I  had  met  him  before — and  I  said;  "I 
have  just  come  to  ascertain  from  you,  Mr.  President,  what  your  atti- 
tude will  be  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  prepared  to  ship  food  and 
clothing  and  bedding  to  Europe." 

He  smiled  and  looked  at  me,  and  said:  "Well,  what  do  you  want 
to  ship  it  over  there  for?    Their  money  isn't  any  good." 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

I  said:  "We  don't  want  their  money."  He  looked  at  me  and 
asked:  "You  don't  mean  you  are  going  to  give  it  to  them?  ' 

I  said:  "Of  course,  we  would  give  it  to  them.  They  are  our 
brothers  and  sisters  and  are  in  distress.  God  has  blessed  us  with  a 
surplus,  and  we  will  be  glad  to  send  it  if  we  can  have  the  co-operation 
of  the  government."  „ 

He  said:  "You  are  on  the  right  track,"  and  added,  we  will  be 
glad  to  help  you  in  any  way  we  can." 

I  have  thought  of  that  a  good  many  times.  After  we  had  sat 
there  a  moment  or  two,  he  said  again:  "How  long  will  it  take  you 
to  get  this  ready?" 

I  said:  "It's  all  ready." 

The  government  you  remember  had  been  destroying  food  and 
refusing  to  plant  grain  during  the  war,  so  I  said  to  him: 

"Mr.  President,  while  the  administration  at  Washington  were 
advising  the  destroying  of  food,  we  were  building  elevators  and  filling 
them  with  grain,  and  increasing  our  flocks  and  our  herds,  and  now 
what  we  need  is  the  cars  and  the  ships  in  order  to  send  considerable 
food,  clothing  and  bedding  to  the  people  of  Europe  who  are  in  dis- 
tress. We  have  an  organization  in  the  Church  that  has  over  two 
thousand  homemade  quilts  ready." 

The  group  that  sang  for  you  this  morning,  the  Singing  Mothers 
of  the  Relief  Society,  represent  that  organization.  They  had  two 
thousand  quilts  made  by  their  own  hands  ready  to  ship.  The  result 
was  that  many  people  received  warm  clothing  and  bedding  and  food 
without  any  delay.  Just  as  fast  as  we  could  get  cars  and  ships,  we 
had  what  was  necessary  to  send  to  Europe. 

Accomplishments  of  the  Last  Century 

Now,  we  couldn't  have  done  that  a  hundred  years  ago.  We 
were  seeking  food  ourselves.  Our  people  in  this  valley  then  were 
digging  thistle  and  sego  roots  for  food,  and  they  were  utilizing  every 
means  possible  to  get  food  to  keep  the  soul  and  body  together.  In 
a  hundred  years  the  desert  has  been  made  to  blossom  as  the  rose. 
In  a  hundred  years  the  gospel  has  been  preached  to  almost  all  na- 
tions of  the  earth  where  it  would  be  received.  In  a  hundred  years 
the  people  have  been  gathered  from  the  various  nations  and  have 
come  here  to  Zion,  and  have  settled  and  made  homes.  In  Utah  and 
Idaho,  Nevada,  Wyoming,  Colorado,  Arizona,  Montana,  California, 
and  Oregon,  the  state  of  Washington  and  western  Canada  we  have 
congregations  as  large  as  this  that  can  be  gathered  together — mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have 
reason  to  thank  God  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  revealed  in  this 
latter-day,  for  without  it  there  could  have  been  no  such  a  settlement, 
no  such  a  gathering  as  has  been  made  by  the  people  in  this  great  west- 
ern land. 

So  this  morning,  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have  much  to  be  grate- 
ful for.  Thanksgiving  should  fill  our  hearts  Here  we  are  in  this 
house  that  has  been  utilized  now  many,  many  years.    I  was  in  it  my- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  7 


self  in  1875;  I  was  a  little  child  then  and  used  to  play  around  here 
on  the  great  stones  that  were  piled  on  this  block  when  the  temple 
was  being  built.  Now  they  all  have  been  finished  and  laid  in  place. 
The  great  organ  was  constructed  and  there  have  been  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  people  worship  God  in  this  building  under  the  influence 
of  the  spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  Handcart  Pioneers 

Just  north  of  this  building  a  monument  is  being  completed  this 
morning  to  the  emigrants  who  came  into  Salt  Lake  Valley,  bringing 
all  their  earthly  possessions  in  handcarts  which  were  pushed  and 
pulled  by  members  of  the  family.  They  walked  approximately  one 
thousand  five  hundred  miles,  coming  from  Iowa  City,  Iowa,  to  this 
place,  and  they  suffered  untold  hardships  along  the  way.  More  than 
two  hundred  of  them  died  on  the  way  due  to  hunger,  cold,  and  ex- 
haustion, but  their  associates  continued  to  arrive  here  eventually  to 
make  their  homes. 

Now,  think  what  has  happened.  That  same  trip  can  be  made 
from  Iowa  City  into  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  in  comfort,  hav- 
ing your  meals  en  route  prepared  for  you  as  you  come  flying  through 
the  air  overlooking  the  country,  and  in  seven  hours  the  trip  is  com- 
pleted. When  the  handcart  people  came,  it  took  weary  months  of 
time  as  it  did  with  the  ox  team.  Now  we  have  the  railways  with  their 
fast  trains;  we  have  the  automobile;  we  have  the  airplane,  and  in 
addition  to  that  we  have  that  wonderful  device,  the  radio,  over  which 
the  Tabernacle  choir  and  organ  have  been  singing  to  the  world  from 
this  building  each  Sabbath  day  for  seventeen  years,  and  by  means  of 
which  people  all  over  the  country  are  listening  in  to  this  service  to- 
day, hearing  it  probably  just  as  plain  in  their  own  homes  and  in  their 
churches  as  if  they  were  present  with  us.  Surely,  a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder  has  been  brought  into  the  world. 

The  scripture  has  been  fulfilled,  and  today  we  humble  members 
of  the  Church,  men  and  women  who  enjoy  almost  every  comfort  that 
can  be  desired,  all  the  necessities  at  any  rate,  assemble  in  the  house 
of  the  Lord  this  morning.  Here  in  quiet  we  commune  together;  we 
listen  to  the  strains  of  music;  we  offer  prayers  of  thanksgiving  and 
gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father;  we  listen  to  sermons  that  are  de- 
livered by  men  who  have  had  experience  in  the  world — everyone  of 
them  has  been  a  missionary  in  some  form  or  another. 

The  Inspiration  in  Worship 

That  reminds  me  of  an  incident  that  happened  a  long  time  ago. 
A  Holland  brother  by  the  name  of  Folkers  was  living  with  his  wife 
at  my  place,  and  they  could  not  speak  or  understand  the  English 
language.  He  used  to  go  to  the  fast  meetings,  and  when  the  other 
people  talked,  he  could  not  understand  what  they  said.  When  they 
finished,  he  would  get  up  and  talk,  and  we  could  not  understand  him. 
One  day  I  asked  him,  "Why  do  you  go  to  the  English-speaking  ser- 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  Pirst  Da* 

vices?  You  cannot  understand."  It  took  me  sometime  to  make  him 
understand  what  I  wanted  to  know.  Finally  he  smiled  and  said:  "It 
is  not  what  you  hear  that  makes  you  happy;  nor  what  you  see  that 
makes  you  happy;  it  is  what  you  feel,  and  I  can  feel  just  as  well  as 
anybody."  And  that  is  the  thing  I  wanted  to  impress  upon  you  this 
morning.  In  this  house,  dedicated  to  the  worship  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  we  not  only  can  hear  and  see,  but  we  can  also  feel  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  hour  and  have  our  faith  increased  and  our  spiritual  strength 
renewed,  not  as  a  great  group  of  strangers  but  as  real  brothers  and 
sisters,  children  of  the  Living  God.  We  can  be  here  together  and 
surely  have  thanksgiving  in  our  hearts  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for 
the  many,  many  blessings  extended  to  us  and  the  opportunities  and 
privileges  that  are  ours. 

Thanksgiving  for  Blessings 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  you  have  come  here  to  wait  upon 
the  Lord,  forget  the  problems  on  the  outside  as  far  as  you  can  and 

Count  your  many  blessings,  name  them  one  by  one, 
And  it  will  surprise  you,  what  the  Lord  has  done. 

We  who  are  here  as  the  descendants  of  those  who  came  a  hun- 
dred years  ago  to  this  valley  can  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  has  been 
over  the  people.  He  has  blessed  us  as  few  people  in  the  world 
have  ever  been  blessed,  and  surely  there  will  be  in  our  hearts  a  feel- 
ing of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  him  who  is  the  Author  of  our 
being  for  all  the  blessings  he  has  bestowed  upon  us. 

I  am  so  happy  this  morning  to  see  Aunt  Augusta  Grant  here. 
She  has  been  coming  to  these  conferences  ever  since  she  was  able,  and 
here  in  her  later  years  she  sits  in  our  midst  representing  a  great 
family  and  bringing  to  our  minds  the  fact  that  her  husband  not  very 
long  ago  stood  where  I  am  standing,  delivering  the  message  that  the 
Lord  had  for  us  through  him.  Then  when  his  work  was  completed, 
he  was  permitted  to  go  to  paradise. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings.  I  pray  that  his  Spirit  may  be 
in  our  hearts  and  in  our  homes,  that  we  may  have  love  for  our  fellow 
men  wherever  they  may  be,  that  we  may  sincerely  desire  to  share 
the  only  message  that  will  bring  peace  to  the  world,  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  with  our  Father's  other  children,  with  the  hope  that 
enough  of  them  will  understand  it  and  make  it  their  own  that  war 
may  be  at  least  withheld  for  some  time  and  that  we  may  go  on  happily 
serving  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  this  morning  that  I  know  that  God  lives; 
I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his 
prophet,  and  I  pray  that  all  of  us  may  have  that  assurance  and  so 
adjust  our  lives  that  when  the  time  comes  for  us  to  go  hence  we  shall 
find  our  reward  is  that  of  an  inheritance  in  the  celestial  kingdom  in 
the  companionship  of  those  we  love,  to  be  with  them  forever,  and  I 
pray  that  it  may  be  so,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


9 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
I  trust  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Boy  Scout  Jamboree 

On  July  15  of  this  year,  at  the  request  of  the  national  organiza- 
tion of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America,  and  with  the  co-operation  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  I  was  invited  to  go  with  a  representa- 
tion of  the  youth  of  America  to  the  Old  World.  This  was  my  seventh 
opportunity  to  go  to  Europe;  five  of  these  trips  have  been  with  the 
Boy  Scouts  of  America.  This  time  there  were  boys  from  every  state 
in  the  Union  and  from  Alaska.  It  was  truly  a  great  occasion.  I 
trust  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessing  of  memory  and  of  the  spirit  of 
the  occasion  so  that  for  these  few  moments  I  may  interpret  to  you 
one  or  two  of  the  highlights  of  this  great  event. 

This  Church  has  ever  been  deeply  interested  in  youth.  In  its 
beginning  God  put  full  trust  in  a  boy,  and  he  became  the  leader  of 
this  dispensation.  It  was  young  men,  largely,  who  fought  their 
way  into  the  beginnings  of  this  great  western  land.  We  must  be 
deeply  concerned  with  youth.  Our  hope  lies  here.  The  after  years 
of  life  set  us  so  fast  in  habits.  If  but  one  generation  would  truly  de- 
vote itself  to  the  oncoming  generation  and  give  of  itself  to  the  youth 
of  the  land,  what  great  things  might  be  wrought! 

Impressive  Sights  of  Old  World 

The  government  of  the  United  States  was  deeply  interested  in 
this  adventure.  They  chartered  one  of  our  transport  ships  for  our 
use,  for  both  going  and  coming.  When  we  arrived  in  the  Old  World, 
the  lads  had  been  built  in  morale  and  spirit  for  a  great  occasion.  At 
Camp  Kilmer,  New  Jersey,  we  rallied  before  departing  on  a  great 
open  field,  and  there  the  Catholic  father,  the  Jewish  rabbi,  the 
Lutheran  minister,  the  Presbyterian  minister,  the  Methodist  minister, 
the  Mormon  elder  united.  We  prayed  for  God  to  be  with  us  to  help 
us  and  bless  us.  We  didn't  want  to  go  boastfully;  we  wanted  to  go 
humbly;  we  wanted  to  help  and  be  friendly.  We  started  our  journey, 
and  after  a  few  days  were  in  the  midst  of  interesting  experiences.  One 
morning  I  heard  boys  about  the  ship  at  four  o'clock;  they  were  seeing 
for  the  first  time  the  white  cliffs  of  Dover.  We  sailed  on  up  the  chan- 
nel passing  Dunkirk.  We  were  deeply  impressed  to  note  when  the 
word  Dunkirk  was  spoken,  these  thousand  lads  fell  into  silence.  They 
had  read  the  papers;  thev  had  read  the  magazines;  they  had  heard 
the  radio.  Great  hulks  of  ships  still  are  protruding  from  the  waters. 
This  told  the  story  of  Great  Britain  on  her  knees,  the  onrush  of  the 
foe,  the  inspiration  of  that  great  Britisher,  Churchill,  who  gave  the 
people  so  much  faith  and  so  much  hope. 

Then  we  v/ent  on  through  Holland  and  Belgium,  deeply  im- 
pressed by  every  step  we  took.  In  Antwerp  the  mayor  spoke  to  our 
boys  in  grateful  appreciation.  He  said: 


1  o  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  D** 

There  would  have  been  no  Antwerp  if  your  fathers  and  your  brothers 
had  not  come. 

We  went  on  through  France.  And  overnight  a  city  arose  on 
a  great  old  French  estate;  thirty-two  thousand  boys,  in  a  drizzling 
rain  pitched  their  tents!  They  were  from  thirty-eight  different  na- 
tions. 

Welcome  in  France 

Early  in  the  morning  we  heard  the  singing  of  the  "Jamboree" 
sung  for  the  first  time  by  a  lovely  chorus  of  French  lads.  It  was  in- 
spiring. All  through  the  trees  and  across  the  old  French  meadow, 
it  came  to  us  by  radio.  We  knew  we  were  now  in  France.  Soon  we 
heard  the  voice  of  a  nation  through  its  youth  saying  to  us, 

We're  happy  you're  here,  all  you  fellows — black,  red,  brown, 
yellow,  white,  from  all  over  the  world  with  all  your  different  languages — 
we're  glad  you've  come. 

Men  of  France  were  saying  in  their  hearts, 

Here  is  our  hope.  We've  been  fought  and  destroyed.  Here  lies  our 
one  hope — the  youth  of  France  must  be  saved. 

They  made  a  tremendous  effort  to  have  us  come.  They  did  every- 
thing they  could  for  us  and  then  more,  to  have  the  youth  of  the  world 
come  when  they  felt  so  sick  at  heart.    This  was  deeply  appreciated. 

Many  men  in  France  have  lost  faith.  They  are  bewildered. 
They  are  confused.  Mothers  were  standing  in  doorways  with  small, 
poorly-fed  children  clinging  to  them  as  we  went  by.  They  wonder 
what  tomorrow  will  bring,  while  men  talk  and  argue  about  their 
destiny. 

Reasons  for  Attending  Jamboree 

At  the  jamboree  I  went  about  among  our  men  and  asked  them 
this  question:  "What  was  it  that  impelled  you  to  come  over  here?" 
There  were  eighty-nine  American  men.  We  sat  down  on  the  old 
logs,  we  sat  in  tents,  we  talked  intimately  and  thoughtfully  with  each 
other. 

I  want  to  read  the  answers  to  you,  for  as  soon  as  I  had  the 
opportunity  I  wrote  the  answers  they  gave.  I  will  read  a  number  of 
them.  They  deeply  impressed  me.  They  challenge  our  thinking.  Here 
is  what  the  American  men  said: 

1.  I  want  the  United  States  to  be  better  understood.  Some  of  the 
people  over  here  in  Europe  are  saying  all  that  the  Americans  want  is 
gold. 

2  I  am  an  assistant  scoutmaster.  I  belong  to  the  league  of  frightened 
men.  I  was  at  Bikini.  I  know  what  the  atomic  bomb  can  do.  Our  hope 
lies  in  the  youth  of  the  world.  Scouting  is  not  talk  but  action  for  peace. 

3.  There  were  300,000  United  States  men  killed  in  World  War  II. 
Among  them  was  my  brother.  I  don't  want  him  to  have  died  in  vain.  I 
believe  I  can  help  through  scouting.  Other  programs  seem  so  complex. 
This  is  simple  and  effective. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A  K1RKHAM 


11 


4.  I  came  to  America,  a  poor  Russian-Jewish  boy.  I  have  received  so 
much.  I  want  to  tell  my  friends  here  in  Europe  the  truth  about  America. 
That's  one  reason  why  I  came. 

Toward  the  end  of  the  jamboree  I  asked  one  of  our  successful 
leaders,  "And  why  are  you  here?"   He  answered: 

5.  Oscar,  I've  seen  scouting  change  the  lives  of  boys  for  good.  I 
have  been  inspired  by  it.  I'm  here  to  get  more  inspiration  and  help. 
We  have  some  real  problems  in  our  country.  On  my  way  to  the  ship  in 
America  I  saw  from  the  train  window  the  sign,  "We  Do  Not  Serve 
Colored  Trade."  I've  broken  bread  with  colored  boys  and  men  here  from 
different  countries.  They  are  fine  fellows.  I  have  been  deeply  impressed. 

In  Belgium  I  saw  a  group  of  American-Jewish  boys  standing  at  a 
grave  with  bowed  heads  while  the  rabbi  said  a  prayer.  It  made  me  feel 
humble,  yet  proud.  I  must  work  more,  have  greater  faith  in  men  and  boys. 

6.  The  world  is  spiritually  ill.  Religion  is  ill.  The  world  is  breaking 
down.  Scouting  has  an  answer,  I  believe,  and  I  want  to  find  out  how  it 
is  influencing  the  boys  of  other  countries. 

7.  I  brought  my  boy  with  me.  I  am  a  G.I.  I  flew  many  times  over 
Europe.  I  helped  to  wreck  the  world.  I  told  my  son  on  shipboard  he 
must  help  to  build  it  back  again.  We  are  talking  it  over.  My  son  is 
very  hopeful. 

8.  I  am  a  minister  and  a  scoutmaster  of  thirty-two  of  these  Scouts. 
I  want  to  know  whether  scouting  helps  build  a  Christian  life.  The  sincere 
love  of  our  American  boys  for  the  boys  of  other  nations  and  their  per- 
sonal devotions  greatly  impress  me. 

Finally  one  of  my  intimate  friends  said: 

9.  When  I  received  the  last  letter  from  my  boy,  he  was  fighting 
from  the  ruins  of  a  French  home.  "It  is  hell  here,  Dad,"  he  wrote.  "The 
next  few  hours  may  decide  everything!"  I  am  going  to  see  his  grave. 
I  want  to  be  as  near  as  possible  to  him  again.  I  want  him  to  know  I  am 
working  for  the  ideals  for  which  he  gave  his  life. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  scouting  is  not  a  cure-all,  but  it  is  as  its 
great  founder  said:  "We  want  to  make  boys  healthy,  happy,  and 
helpful."  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  God  unto  salvation 
is  the  answer.  May  we  humbly  live  it;  may  we  help  youth  to  its 
great  future. 

The  world  will  adjust  itself  when  the  Lord's  plans  are  duly  un- 
folded. God  help  us  and  bless  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
has  just  spoken  to  us.  I  may  say  that  he  was  Morale  Officer  for 
the  United  States  in  this  last  world  Scout  Jamboree  as  well  as  all 
the  others  that  have  been  held  since  Scouting  began. 

The  Relief  Society  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Prophet." 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  PirSt  Da,J 

PRESIDENT  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  large  group  of  people  assembled  to  worship  our  Lord  and 
to  give  thanks  for  our  blessings  is  a  beautiful  lesson  of  the  meaning 
of  life.  You  come  up  to  this  house  of  God  obedient  to  the  call.  It 
is  obedience  that  leads  us  to  the  knowledge  and  love  of  God,  and  we 
conceive  God's  decrees  as  eternal  truths.  It  gives  us  renewed  faith 
and,  says  Sholem  Asch: 

It  is  faith  and  not  wisdom  which  carrieth  the  key  to  the  kingdom  of 
heaven. 

Contributions  to  Peace 

Among  the  many  questions  that  we  have  been  asked  to  answer 
at  the  State  Capitol  through  the  Utah  State  Historical  Society  is  one 
that  I  know  will  impress  you,  and  one,  too,  we  have  tried  to  answer 
properly,  though  briefly.    It  is  a  question  of  great  importance.  It  is: 

What  contribution  has  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  made  to  this 
darkened  world,  with  the  other  Christian  churches  to  bring  peace  to  the 
world? 

As  we  listen  to  the  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Relief  Society  we  re- 
call something  that  has  come  down  to  us  from  ancient  days.  In  an 
old  rabbinic  code  recently  discovered  is  a  description  of  the  duties  of 
women  as  taught  in  the  synagogue.    They  were  to: 

Feed  the  hungry  and  give  the  thirsty  to  drink. 
Clothe  the  naked,  and  shelter  the  homeless. 
Visit  the  sick,  bury  the  dead  and  comfort  the  mourner. 
Support  the  widow  and  instruct  the  fatherless. 
Ransom  the  captive. 

Make  garments  for  the  orphan  and  provide  for  the  betrothed  maiden. 

When  we  stop  to  think  that  this  code  is  many  hundreds  of  years  old 
and  was  taught  in  the  ancient  synagogues  of  Jerusalem,  it  indicates 
what  a  high  calling  the  women  of  God  have  always  had. 

Uncertainty  in  Christian  World 

The  modern  Christian  world  is  confronted  with  two  conditions 
which  seem  to  be  little  realized.  The  first  is  the  inner  uncertainty  of 
Christianity  itself  which  does  not  seem  to  know  its  own  basic  beliefs. 
The  Christian  world  is  confused  as  to  just  what  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
taught. 

Then  there  is  the  upsurge  of  communism,  a  power  that  has  come 
into  our  own  midst  greater  than  we  realize. 

No  movement  in  history  has  achieved  so  sudden  an  actualization  as 
a  world  movement.  Systems  only  grow  as  they  appeal  to  people.  Com- 
munism will  continue  to  grow  until  the  people  are  confronted  with  and 
taught  the  fundamentals  of  Christianity  which  are  creatively  worked  out 
in  human  society. 


PRESIDENT  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  13 


We  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  comprehensive  and 
all-embracing,  including  all  the  values  of  religion  as  they  reveal 
themselves  in  human  experience.  It  is  purifying  and  refining,  cor- 
recting the  excesses  and  rejecting  the  abuses,  which  have  corrupted 
the  nature  and  obstructed  the  pathway  of  religion  throughout  its 
history.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  distinctively  and  definitely 
revelatory,  fulfilling  the  largest  meaning  and  possibility  of  revelation. 
It  makes  due  place  for  all  the  human  interests  that  constitute  the 
spiritual  life  of  man.  It  is  quite  true  that  the  Christian  world  has 
lost  the  path.  And  the  reason  for  this  is  that  it  has  not  the  inner  vigor 
to  command  a  place  of  commanding  power.  The  religion  of  Jesus 
Christ  requires  revelation — revelation  to  chosen  prophets,  who  teach 
the  principles  of  the  redemption  of  mankind.  Within  the  Christian 
doctrine  is  the  principle  and  potency  of  redemption. 

Highest  Concepts  of  Freedom 

The  faith  we  have  in  our  government  of  the  United  States  is  of 
the  highest  concept,  for  to  us,  it  is  a  sacred  institution  because  of  the 
directive  power  of  God  that  brought  it  into  existence.  The  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States  is  an  outgrowth  of  the  highest  concepts  of 
freedom  for  mankind  that  the  world  has  learned  in  history.  Re- 
verting to  the  simple  beginnings  of  the  founders  of  America,  we  know 
them  to  have  been  of  the  finest  blood  of  England,  and  other  countries 
of  Europe.  They  brought  hither  in  their  little  ships,  not  money, 
not  merchandise,  no  array  of  armed  force,  but  they  came  freighted 
with  religion,  learning,  and  law.  They  stepped  forth  upon  these 
shores  and  a  howling  wilderness  received  them.  Strong  in  their 
faith  in  God  and  their  own  heroic  patience,  they  began  their  combat 
with  danger  and  hardship.  Sickness  at  times  smote  them,  but  they 
fainted  not;  famine  overtook  them,  but  they  feasted  on  roots  with  a 
patient  spirit.  They  began  to  build  a  house  for  God,  and  then  for 
themselves.  They  established  education  and  the  observance  of  a 
stern  and  august  morality,  then  legislated  for  the  smaller  purposes 
of  wealth  and  convenience.  They  gave  their  sons  to  God,  and 
through  virtue  to  the  state.  So  they  laid  their  foundations.  Villages 
grew,  churches  and  colleges  were  built,  and  farther  into  the  depths 
of  the  wilderness  industry  multiplied  her  hands.  Civic  life  and 
order  completed  themselves  and  swelled  into  the  majesty  of  states. 
Herein  is  a  resume  of  our  own  state's  history.  Utah  was  founded  in 
sublime  hopes  and  the  ideals  of  a  pure  morality.  And  the  higher 
life  was  combined  with  agriculture  and  all  industry — making  the 
soil  bring  forth  food  for  man.  Combined  with  all  this  was  a  taste  for 
learning.  This  state  was  grounded  in  religion,  for  religion  was  in- 
corporate in  the  principles  and  feelings  of  the  people.  This  is  what 
gave  us  our  morals  and  true  public  enthusiasms,  and  our  inspired  ways 
of  living. 

Obedience  to  Law  is  Liberty 
There  is  a  principle  that  is  often  misunderstood,  and  that  is 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pint  Day 

what  we  call  obedience.  It  is  a  principle  that  makes  life  happy  and 
creates  within  us  faith  in  truth  and  the  results  of  doing  what  is  right. 
On  the  old  library  of  Worcester,  Massachusetts,  are  these  words: 

Obedience  to  Law  is  Liberty. 

Obeying  laws  which  we  impose  upon  ourselves,  that  is,  just  and 
righteous  laws,  laws  that  are  the  expressions  of  right  principles,  such 
as  discipline  of  the  intellect,  the  shame  of  committing  a  wrong,  respect 
for  those  in  authority,  consideration  for  the  poor  and  needy;  venera- 
tion for  the  good;  sympathy  for  the  weak:  this  is  true  self-discipline. 
Then  one  knows  what  liberty  means.  Obedience  to  the  laws  that 
express  right  principles  is  what  makes  it  a  religious  duty.  It  leads 
to  faith  in  the  commandments  of  God. 

For  forty  years,  Moses  had  not  been  alone.  The  care  and 
burden  of  all  the  people,  the  weight  of  their  woe  and  guilt  and  death 
had  been  upon  him  continually.  He  felt  at  times  that  the  Lord  had 
forsaken  him  and  he  had  prayed  that  he  might  be  slain,  that  God 
might  not  see  his  wretchedness.  And  then  when  the  march  to  the 
Promised  Land  was  over,  he  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord: 

Get  thee  up  into  this  mountain.  .  .  .  (Deut.  32:49.) 

In  his  old  age  the  long  journey  was  about  to  end,  and  he  should  see 
the  land  that  had  been  his  dream.  Moses  died.  But  he  had  come 
to  know  the  perfect  law  of  liberty  through  obedience. 

Missionary  Calling  of  Seventies 

Every  generation  writes  its  own  history.  It  is  not  that  the  past 
alters,  but  that  we  change,  and  our  changed  present  opens  new  per- 
spectives, and  raises  new  questions.  The  gospel  as  revealed  to  the 
servants  of  God  will  always  remain  the  same  and  constant.  You 
seventies  who  are  the  missionaries  of  the  Church,  are  called  to  go 
forth  to  teach  the  world  as  your  forebears  were  called  years  ago. 
The  gospel  has  a  worldwide  mission.  Like  Paul,  the  Church  cannot 
do  other  than  exclaim: 

.  .  .  woe  is  unto  me,  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel!  (I  Cor  9:16.) 

I  am  debtor  both  to  the  Greeks,  and  to  the  Barbarians;  both  to  the 
wise,  and  to  the  unwise.  (Romans  1:14.) 

You  are  to  give  freely  that  which  you  have  freely  received.  You 
have  fine  ideals;  you  have  trained  yourselves  to  think  and  act  as 
your  Redeemer  would  have  you  think  and  act.  Remember  you  are 
members  of  a  quorum  of  the  priesthood  of  God,  and  your  organ- 
ization is  a  pure  democracy.  For  this  reason  alone,  you  understand 
the  meaning  of  good  government. 

Ideals  of  Sermon  on  the  Mount 

When  Jesus  called  the  Twelve  and  the  Seventy  to  go  forth  to 
preach  the  gospel,  he  had  the  disciples  assemble  on  the  shores  of  the 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


15 


Lake  of  Galilee,  and  listen  to  his  "Sermon  on  the  Mount,"  which 
was  the  Master's  ordination  sermon.  Think  of  what  was  expected 
of  the  disciples  of  Jesus,  for  the  same  ideals  are  expected  of  us. 
Standing  as  missionaries  today,  can  we  not  in  our  imagination  hear 
the  Master? 

Missionaries  go  forth  with  the  deep  knowledge  of  the  precepts 
of  God,  and  it  is  by  following  the  precepts  that  belief  in  God  is 
shown.  If  we  believe  in  him,  we  shall  keep  his  commandments;  and 
the  great  commandment  is  that  we  shall  love  one  another.  How 
simple  are  all  the  doctrines,  simple  because  all  great  truths  are 
simple.    It  was  the  Prophet  Isaiah  who  wrote: 

Wash  you,  make  you  clean;  put  away  the  evil  of  your  doings  from 
before  mine  eyes;  cease  to  do  evil;  Learn  to  do  well;  seek  judgment,  re- 
lieve the  oppressed,  judge  the  fatherless,  plead  for  the  widow.  (Isaiah 
1:16,  17.) 

The  precepts  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  with  the  words  of 
Isaiah  that  we  should  cease  to  do  evil  and  learn  to  do  well,  not  to 
our  brethren  and  fellow-citizens  only,  but  to  all  mankind  will  ever 
be  a  guide  to  our  lives. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  humbly  ask  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  this  morn- 
ing as  I  stand  before  you  on  this  rare  and  delightful  occasion.  It  is 
truly  an  inspiration  to  see  the  priesthood  sitting  before  us  with  other 
members  of  the  Church  in  this  great  and  historic  building. 

Indian  Groups  Visited 

Since  the  last  conference  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  visit  many 
of  the  tribes  of  Indians  and  spend  some  time  down  in  Mexico  among 
others  of  the  Lamanites.  In  Mexico  I  found  many  pureblood  In- 
dians who  are  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  in  organized 
branches.  There  was  the  Aztec  group  down  south  of  Popocatepetl 
Volcano.  I  found  them  dancing  the  Gold  and  Green  Ball,  though 
generally  they  go  barefooted.  I  found  them  in  Mutual  activities  of  all 
kinds,  singing  temple  anthems,  dancing,  dramatizing,  and  doing 
many  of  the  things  which  we  do  here  at  home.  And  it  became  my 
hope  that  such  might  be  the  privilege  of  all  of  the  Indians  or  Laman- 
ites, everywhere  in  the  world,  and  that  the  Church  blessings  might 
be  brought  to  them. 

Responsibility  to  Preach  Gospel  to  Lamanites 

I  realize  that  the  responsibility  is  ours  to  bring  the  gospel  with 
all  its  progress  and  culture  to  the  Indian.  No  other  people  in  the 
world  have  the  program  to  give  to  them,  and  so  it  is  up  to  us  to  do 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Daf 

this.  As  we  realize  this,  our  great  responsibility,  we  remember  the 
scripture  which  says, 

...  I  will  soften  the  hearts  of  the  Gentiles,  that  they  shall  be  like 
unto  a  father  to  them.  ...  (II  Nephi  10:18.) 

One  of  the  very  first  revelations  to  the  Church  in  this  last 
dispensation  came  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  he  said: 

.  .  .  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  you  shall  go  unto  the  Lamanites  and 
preach  my  gospel  unto  them;  and  inasmuch  as  they  receive  thy  teachings 
thou  shalt  cause  my  church  to  be  established  among  them,  ...  (D.  &  C. 
28:8.) 

We  have  now,  a  stake  in  Hawaii,  the  membership  of  which  is 
largely  Lehites.  We  have  branches  of  the  Church  in  Spanish- 
America  and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea  in  great  numbers.  We  now 
have  an  Indian  branch  in  South  Carolina.  We  have  Indian  wards 
in  the  Malad  Stake  and  in  the  Maricopa  Stake.  But  our  respons- 
ibility has  not  yet  been  met,  for  we  have  some  sixty  million  people  in 
these  Americas  who  have  some  of  the  blood  of  Israel  in  their  veins 
ancl  who  must  hear  the  gospel. 

Destiny  of  the  Church 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  quoted  by  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  in  referring  to  this  important  matter.  May  I  quote  his 
words.  The  Prophet  was  talking  to  a  group  of  the  priesthood,  and 
he  said: 

Brethren  .  .  .  you  know  no  more  concerning  the  destinies  of  this 
church  and  kingdom  than  a  babe  upon  its  mother's  lap.  You  don't 
comprehend  it.  .  .  . 

It  is  only  a  handful  of  priesthood  you  see  here  tonight,  but  this 
church  will  fill  North  and  South  America— it  will  fill  the  world. 

It  will  fill  the  Rocky  Mountains.  There  will  be  tens  of  thousands 
of  Latter-day  Saints  who  will  be  gathered  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and 
there  they  will  open  the  door  for  the  establishing  of  the  gospel  among 
the  Lamanites,  who  will  receive  the  gospel  and  their  endowments  and  the 
blessings  of  God.  {Discourses  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  pp.  38,  39.) 

Then  in  Second  Nephi  we  have  this: 

And  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  declared  among  them;  where- 
fore, they  shall  be  restored  unto  the  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  also 

^t^t  k,nowIe^9e  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  had  among  their  fathers. 
(II  Nephi  30:5.) 

I  am  sure  that  the  consummation  of  the  work  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  in  this  dispensation  cannot  be  realized  without  this  important 
feature  of  the  restitution  of  all  things. 

In  Third  Nephi  the  Lord  has  inspired  his  prophet  to  say  this: 

And  then  shall  the  work  of  the  Father  commence  at  that  day,  even 
when  this  gospel  shall  be  preached  among  the  remnant  of  this  people. 
Verily  I  say  unto  you,  at  that  day  shall  the  work  of  the  Father  com- 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  17 


mence  among  all  the  dispersed  of  my  people,  yea,  even  the  tribes  which 
have  been  lost,  .  .  .  (Ill  Nephi  21:26.) 

History  of  Indian  Conversions 

It  has  been  said  that  the  gospel  would  be  preached  and  that 
nations  would  be  "born  in  a  day."  There  was  a  period  back  in 
1875-6  when  there  were  great  numbers  of  Indians  who  came  into  the 
Church.  There  was  Chief  Poko-Tel-Lo  from  the  Snake  River,  who, 
with  his  entire  band,  was  baptized  into  the  Church,  and  they  left 
Salt  Lake  City  going  back  to  their  homes  determined  to  refrain  from 
all  evil  practices.  The  old  chief  said  that  the  other  Indians  were 
interested,  and  there  would  be  many  who  would  be  baptized.  There 
were  fifty  from  the  north  who  came  down.  Chief  Alma  with 
twenty-two  of  his  people  from  the  Salmon  River  country  came 
down  and  were  baptized  into  the  Church.  The  chief  made  the  pre- 
diction that  there  would  be  hundreds  and  thousands  of  the  Indians 
come  into  the  Church.  Orson  Pratt  baptized  fifty-two  and  blessed 
nine  papooses  down  at  Mount  Pleasant  in  June  of  that  year.  In 
July  there  were  eighty-five  of  Kanosh's  band  who  were  baptized  into 
the  Church,  and  the  following  year  there  were  forty-one  men  and 
thirty-nine  women,  Indians,  baptized  down  at  Kanab.  It  seems  that 
there  were  a  great  many  baptisms  also  up  in  the  Malad  country.  I 
quote  from  The  Deseret  News  of  July  22,  1875: 

.  .  .  Yesterday  we  met  with  Brother  G.  W.  Hill,  who  has  charge 
of  a  colony  of  several  hundred  Indians,  mostly  of  the  Shoshone,  Bannock, 
and  Pah  Lite  tribes.  They  are  Indians  who  have  come  forward  and  de- 
manded to  be  baptized.  The  location  is  in  Malad  Valley,  Idaho  Territory. 
.  .  .  They  declare  their  intention  to  wander  about  no  more,  but  to  lead 
industrious  lives,  at  peace  with  all  their  fellow  creatures,  refraining  from 
stealing  and  from  all  manner  of  bad  practices,  and  abide  by  the  condi- 
tions of  their  baptism,  which  are  that  they  shall  cease  every  species  of 
wrongdoing.  Elder  Hill  has  baptized  about  three  hundred  since  last 
spring. 

And  then  it  was  stated  that  these  Indians  had  already  shown 
their  good  faith.  They  were  all  blessing  their  food;  they  were 
having  their  family  prayers;  and  they  were  attending  their  regular 
Sabbath  meetings. 

Missions  Serving  the  Lamanites 

In  1943  the  Church  organized  the  Navajo-Zuni  Mission  to  look 
after  the  Indians  in  that  area.  This  year  the  mission  has  been 
enlarged  to  include  all  of  the  Indians  in  Arizona  and  New  Mexico 
and  in  the  little  strip  in  the  southern  part  of  Utah  and  Colorado. 
It  is  a  full-time  mission  now.  We  are  buying  a  mission  home  in 
Gallup,  New  Mexico,  which  will  be  the  headquarters.  And  now 
young  missionaries,  elders  and  lady  missionaries,  are  being  called 
to  this  mission  as  the  other  missions  in  the  Church. 

This  year  the  Uruguayan  Mission  has  been  opened,  and  today 
with  that  mission  and  Brazil  and  Argentina,  we  have  in  South 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

America  169  missionaries  working  among  the  Lamanites.  This,  of 
course,  is  in  fulfilment  of  the  dreams  of  the  brethren  and  particularly 
the  promise  and  prayer  of  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  when  on  the  25th 
of  December  in  1 925  he  stood  on  the  banks  of  El  Rio  de  La  Plata  at 
Buenos  Aires,  and  under  the  weeping  willow  trees  there,  blessed 
South  America.    He  said  this,  among  other  things: 

...  I  turn  the  key,  unlock,  and  open  the  door  for  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  in  all  these  South  American  nations,  and  rebuke,  and  command 
to  be  stayed,  every  power  that  would  oppose  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
in  these  lands.  And  we  do  bless  and  dedicate  these  nations,  and  this  land 
for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  .  .  .  {The  Improvement  Era,  April,  1926, 
pp.  575,  576.) 

And  in  the  last  three  months  two  new  fields  have  been  opened. 
Mexican  missionaries  from  the  Mexican  Mission  have  been  sent  into 
Guatemala  and  Costa  Rica,  and  the  work  is  going  forward  with  the 
approval  and  hearty  response,  it  seems,  of  the  leading  authorities 
of  those  nations. 

We  have  the  Mexican  Mission,  the  Spanish-American  Mission 
and  the  Navajo-Zuni  Mission  here  in  the  United  States  and  Mexico, 
in  addition  to  all  the  program  in  the  isles  of  the  sea.  The  work  in 
the  stakes  is  going  forward.  There  are  Indians  in  many  of  the 
stakes  here  in  the  West,  and  the  stake  presidents  are  looking  after 
the  proselyting  of  these  Indians  within  their  boundaries,  especially 
in  the  Blackfoot,  Roosevelt,  Sevier,  Parowan,  and  other  stakes. 

We  are  glad  of  the  work  that  has  been  renewed  in  the  missions 
of  the  Church,  especially  here  in  North  America.  In  Canada  some 
very  splendid  work  is  being  done  in  the  Six-Nations  Reservation 
over  near  Brantford,  Ontario,  and  in  central  Canada  there  are  two 
large  reservations,  the  "Carry  the  Kettle"  Reservation  and  the 
Piapot,  where  President  Ivins  recently  visited,  and  between  175 
and  200  Indians  came  and  attended  his  meetings.  Those  were  the 
largest  meetings,  I  understand,  in  his  entire  mission  visit  in  western 
Canada. 

We  have  the  Ponca  and  the  Sioux  Indians  who  are  showing 
interest  in  Nebraska,  and  the  Shoshones  and  the  Arapahoes  in 
Wyoming.  We  are  doing  work  in  the  Rogue  River,  the  Tule  Rivers, 
and  the  Rancho  Rio  reservations  in  northern  California,  and  the 
Menominee  Reservation  in  the  Northern  States  Mission.  We  have 
the  Iroquois  and  the  Catteraugas  in  New  York,  and  it  will  be  re- 
membered that  in  1 830  when  Oliver  Cowdery  began  his  missionary 
service  among  the  Lamanites,  that  those  were  the  first  Indians  to 
be  visited  in  this  dispensation.  Today  young  elders  are  on  motor 
bikes  going  out  into  the  scattered  areas  and  visiting  the  Indians, 
and  are  receiving  a  very  warm  welcome.  The  Cherokees  in  the 
tsast  Central  States  Mission  are  interested.  Their  chief,  Armichain, 
has  indicated  a  great  deal  of  helpfulness. 

I  would  like  to  quote  just  a  paragraph  from  a  letter  from  one 
who  has  indicated  intense  interest  and  been  most  helpful. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  19 


.  .  .  I  drove  .  .  .  with  one  of  my  Indian  friends,  Charles  Crow,  to 
Asheville,  and  met  the  lady  missionaries  and  the  elders  there  ...  he 
was  much  impressed  by  them.  .  .  .  We  administered  to  one  of  the  elders 
who  was  ill,  Charles  Crow  witnessing  the  ordinance.  .  .  .  He  later  told 
me  that  [that]  was  taught  in  the  Bible,  and  we  were  the  first  people  he 
ever  knew  of  that  used  it.  When  I  had  my  prayers  that  evening  I 
knelt  beside  him.  .  .  .  Before  I  had  finished  he  put  his  arm  on  my  shoulder 
and  said,  Elder  Stokes,  pray  that  I  some  day  may  also  have  such  a  testi- 
mony and  a  prayer  in  my  heart. 

It  was  my  privilege  at  Malad  Stake  recently  to  see  a  large  num- 
ber of  our  Indian  members  of  the  Church.  One  of  the  sisters  bore  a 
wonderful  testimony  in  the  conference,  and  one  of  the  old  men  dis- 
missed the  conference.  He  was  one  of  those  original  three  hundred 
baptized  way  back  in  1875  by  Brother  Hill.  He  was  deaf,  but  he 
offered  a  very  fine  prayer. 

Interest  in  Lamanites  Increasing 

I  believe  that  the  interest  generally  is  spreading  and  increasing 
and  that  we  are  on  the  dawn  of  a  great  day  for  the  Lamanite  people. 
Visiting  the  Mexican  Mission  in  May  I  found  of  the  seventy-one 
missionaries,  fifteen  of  them  were  Lamanites,  and  I  also  found  the 
young  American  missionaries  were  vying  with  each  other  to  see 
who  could  be  the  companions  of  these  Mexican  and  Indian  mission- 
aries because  they  were  so  efficient. 

There  have  been  baptisms  by  the  hundreds.  Some  of  the  most 
recent  ones  were  twenty  baptisms  in  the  Roosevelt  Stake  within  the 
past  few  weeks.  There  were  four  at  Sand  Hills,  Arizona.  There 
were  f orty-one  baptized  in  Mexico  City  in  one  day  while  I  was 
there,  and  I  witnessed  their  baptism.  And  then  there  were  hundreds, 
many  hundreds  who  have  come  back  into  fellowship  in  the  Church 
in  Mexico  through  the  good  graces  of  President  George  Albert 
Smith,  President  Arwell  L.  Pierce,  and  others  who  made  contribu- 
tions toward  that  great  accomplishment. 

We  have  had  schools  in  Mexico,  in  Hawaii,  Tonga,  and  New 
Zealand.  And  so  we  are  looking  forward  to  a  new  day  in  schooling 
where  our  Lamanites  may  receive  many  of  the  advantages  that  our 
own  children  have. 

A  year  ago  we  established  down  in  Blanding,  Utah,  a  small 
school,  somewhat  as  an  experiment.  It  has  been  very  successful. 
With  an  outlay  of  only  $1,500  total,  we  have  built  and  equipped  a 
two-room  schoolhouse  there  under  the  direction  of  Brother  Albert 
R.  Lyman,  who  has  done  a  glorious  work.  There  have  been  many 
donations  of  all  kinds,  in  materials,  in  food,  in  clothing.  For  the 
first  year  they  fed  these  little  Indian  children,  twenty-seven  of  them, 
a  warm  midday  meal,  clothed  them,  and  taught  them  not  only  the 
three  R's  but  the  gospel.  It  has  been  very  successful,  and  we  are 
delighted  with  the  prospects  that  are  ahead  of  us  for  the  second  year 
now  which  is  beginning.  I  visited  this  school  last  year  when  it  was 
in  session.    I  noticed  that  three  of  the  Indian  women  came,  one  of 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pirst  °af 

whom  had  five  children,  four  in  the  school  and  one  in  the  cradle 
upon  her  back.  She  sat  at  the  sewing  machine  all  day  long  in  one 
corner  of  the  larger  schoolroom,  and  frequently  we  would  see  her 
going  over  to  one  of  the  little  desks,  kneeling  down  beside  it  to  help 
her  children  to  learn,  and  to  impress  upon  them  the  importance  of 
taking  advantage  of  this  unusual  opportunity  which  many  thou- 
sands of  little  boys  and  girls  should,  but  do  not  have. 

The  1946  report  of  the  missions  discloses  the  fact,  that  among 
the  Lamanites  there  are  six  times  as  many  converts  for  each  mission- 
ary, as  in  all  the  other  missions  of  the  world,  and  there  are  twenty 
times  as  many  converts  for  each  missionary  in  the  Lamanite  missions 
as  in  some  of  the  missions  in  Canada  and  the  United  States. 

Story  of  Polacca  Family 

I  had  a  letter  the  other  day  from  a  Tewa  Indian  in  the  Sand 
Hills  of  Arizona.  His  name  is  Vinton  Polacca.  He  is  the  son  of 
one  Tom  Polacca,  who  was  baptized  many  years  ago  by  Jacob 
Hamblin  or  his  contemporaries.  And  then  it  seemed  that  there  were 
many  decades  when  there  were  no  missionaries  in  the  area  to  give 
them  help  and  courage.  But  Tom  Polacca  went  on  with  his  work, 
and  he  taught  his  children  the  Book  of  Mormon  stories,  and  prom- 
ised them  that  though  it  would  be  slow,  the  Church  would  come 
back  again  to  them.  Vinton  and  his  wife,  Fanny,  were  baptized 
a  few  years  ago  at  Snowflake,  Arizona.  They  spoke  in  the  meeting- 
house. They  were  entertained  in  the  homes  of  the  whites,  and  they 
were  feted  and  banqueted  as  brothers  and  sisters.  The  story  of  the 
conversion  of  this  man  is  most  interesting. 

He  was  walking  through  the  little  community  one  day  near  the 
store  out  near  the  Second  Mesa  in  that  sparsely  inhabited  area  in 
northern  Arizona.  He  heard  a  missionary  talking  to  some  Indians 
near  his  car.  He  listened  a  moment.  It  sounded  like  the  things  his 
father  had  told  him  those  many,  many  years  before,  and  when  the 
missionary  entered  his  car  to  go  off  some  little  distance  to  eat  his 
lunch,  this  man  who  had  started  out  to  get  his  horse,  and  had  his 
bridle  on  his  arm,  climbed  on  the  side  of  the  car,  and  they  went 
some  little  distance  and  found  a  place  to  sit  down.  Neither  the 
horse  was  caught  nor  the  lunch  eaten  because  this  man  became  so 
involved  in  his  learning  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  so  he 
and  his  wife  were  baptized  some  little  time  later. 

Let  me  quote  from  his  letter  a  few  paragraphs  of  which  I  believe 
will  interest  you.  Brother  Vinton  is  a  young  man  in  his  forties  with 
a  splendid  Indian  family,  part  of  whom  we  baptized  recently.  We 
held  a  testimony  meeting  with  them  in  their  own  little  home,  away 
out  in  the  sand  hills,  and  I  think  it  was  the  first  testimony  meeting 
they  had  attended  and  the  first  sacrament  they  had  ever  received. 
He  was  a  priest,  and  I  helped  him  to  administer  to  the  sacrament. 
His  letter  reads  in  part  as  follows: 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  21 


.  .  .  We  are  here  at  Keams  Canyon  School  now.  I  am  back  to  work 
in  the  bakery  again.  I  sure  like  to  be  with  so  many  little  children  .  .  . 
and  I  always  wonder  if  all  these  young  souls  could  only  know  the  true 
gospel,  it  will  be  a  great  help  to  our  tribe.  Yes.  We  always  talk  about 
your  nice  visit  to  us  at  Sand  Hills.  There  isn't  very  much  to  see  up  there, 
but  I  think  that  my  father  has  been  led  by  a  great  spirit,  to  find  a  spring 
and  a  good  home,  and  have  more  freedom  to  pray  to  his  true  God.  I 
could  see  him  when  I  shut  my  eyes,  kneeling  down  on  top  of  those 
sand  hills  and  praying  to  our  Great  Father  in  heaven.  ...  I  surely  would 
like  to  talk  and  tell  the  people  all  about  my  father's  conversion,  how  he 
fine  the  true  gospel.  .  .  . 

My  father  was  telling  me  a  story  at  the  sheep  camp  by  a  fireplace  in 
the  winter  as  we  were  setting  by  a  fireplace,  while  he  was  sewing  my 
sheepskin  over  shoes,  he  said,  "My  beloved  Son,  you  are  the  youngest 
son  of  mine.  I'll  tell  you  a  story  about  my  life  and  other  people.  You 
must  remember  this  and  try  to  live  up  to  it.  But  remember,  Son,  this  is 
not  for  yourself.  As  I  have  said  before,  there  are  other  people  who  can- 
not see  and  hear.  If  you  live  right  and  pray  you  might  lead  them  and 
tell  them  about  it.  Give  them  a  drink  when  they  ask  for  it.  Yes,  Son, 
I  have  travel  a  lots  of  time  out  in  the  country.  Far  off  to  the  other  tribe 
to  trade  our  goods.  Many  times  I  have  gone  alone  out  in  the  wilderness, 
where  there  is  no  roads  or  where  to  fine  the  spring  and  food  when  I 
need  it.  Oh  my  Son  you  must  listen  good.  Our  great  spirit  Father  in 
heaven  is  guiding  me.  I  pray  when  I  am  thirsty,  I  pray  when  I  am  lost 
and  when  I  need  food  I  pray.  All  are  answer  when  you  believe  in  him. 
You  don't  know  yet  Son,  what  I  am  talking  about.  But  you  must  re- 
member and  pray  for  it,  you'll  fine  it.  The  right  one  will  come  to  you 
and  you'll  know  it,  my  Son. 

"There  will  be  lots  of  white  people.  They  will  all  look  alike  when 
you  see  them,  all  white.  But,  my  Son,  there  heart  is  not  alike,  so  you 
must  be  very  careful  in  finding  the  right  one.  I  have  fine  the  true  gospel 
so  you  must  try  and  fine  the  same  one  my  Son,  the  Mormons.  They  got 
the  true  record  of  our  people.  But  they  are  coming  slow.  But  they  will 
be  here.  You'll  see  them  and  hear  them  when  they  come.  You'll  know 
them  by  name  (Mormon)  so  my  Son,  wait  for  the  Mormons.  They  got 
the  true  gospel  of  our  great  spirit  Father  in  heaven.  Pray  for  it  so  you'll 
fine  the  right  one." 

At  his  death  bed  I  was  setting  beside  his  bed  and  he  hold  out  his 
hands  and  said,  "My  Son,  I  am  leaving  you.  Remember  what  I  have 
told  you.  Wait  for  the  Mormon.  Look,  Son,  there  is  the  man  coming 
down  to  take  me  home.  Look.  There  is  the  cross  above  me.  Be  a  good 
boy,  Son,  be  brave  and  be  true  to  our  true  living  God.  Good-bye,"  And 
he  is  gone. 

Oh  yes,  he  told  me  that  he  first  meet  the  missionaries  around  Tuba 
City  and  later  on  he  said  they  went  up  to  Salt  Lake  City  to  buy  a  horse 
with  his  brother,  and  thats  the  time  he  said  he  was  been  baptized.  He  did 
not  said  where  he  was  been  baptized.  Only  name  that  I  remember  was 
Jacob. 

And  then  Vinton  tells  his  own  little  story,  briefly: 

When  I  was  about  eight  years  old  I  start  to  heard  sheep,  and  from 
that  time  on  I  have  learned  lots  about  God's  work.  I  was  a  lonely  boy. 
My  brothers  and  sisters  were  big.  When  my  father  died  in  1911  I  was 
left  alone  with  my  mother,  and  she  also  encourage  me  to  remember  my 
father's  last  words — told  me  to  live  right  and  pray  morning  and  evening 
so  I  keep  it  up.  But  sometimes  I  think  of  myself  if  I  was  worth  to  God, 
then  with  a  humble  heart  I  look  toward  east  where  Sun  rises.  I  would 
then  think  of  the  day  that  would  come  for  me  to  meet  the  right  true 
gospel.  In  1913  I  was  able  to  read  and  write.  I  went  to  Baptizes  [Baptist] 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

Church.  I  got  hold  of  the  Holy  Bible  and  I  sure  did  study  it.  But  still 
it  was  not  enough  of  the  story  that  my  father  had  told  me.  In  my  mind 
(the  Mormons)  so  in  1915  I  went  to  Santa  Fe  to  school  and  there  I 
found  out  about  the  Catlices  [Catholics]  I  sure  want  to  go  to  there 
church  so  I  did  and  I  have  found  that  it  was  not  the  kind  that  my 
father  had  told  me  about  it,  so  that  Sunday  night  I  ask  our  God  what 
to  do.  I  though  [thought]  that  I  was  lost.  The  next  week  Sunday  they 
told  me  to  go  to  church,  but  I  stand  alone  there  in  the  hole  [whole] 
crowd.  I  don't  know  which  way  to  go,  so  I  did  not  go  to  church  for 
about  a  month.  The  school  boy  use  to  call  me  divil  [devil]  because  I 
didn't  want  to  go  to  church.  .  .  . 

I  have  waited  about  20  years  before  I  have  found  the  true  gospel.  .  .  . 
Well,  brother,  I'll  try  and  tell  you  ...  all  about  my  father's  life  .  .  . 
and  also  my  own  hard  traveling  and  looking  for  the  true  gospel  which 
at  last  I  have  fine,  and  now  I  am  feeling  very  happy.  .  .  . 

I  wish  I  would  be  up  there  with  you  during  the  general  conference. 
Well,  we  all  send  our  love  to  our  brothers  and  sisters.  We  remain 
as  true  to  gospel. 

From  Polacca  family 
Vinton  L.  Polacca. 

Lamanites  to  be  "White  and  Delightsome" 

Brothers  and  sisters,  in  conclusion  may  I  say  that  we  owe  a 
great  debt  to  these  people,  which  we  can  only  pay  by  giving  to  them 
the  gospel  and  the  many  advantages  and  opportunities  which  we 
enjoy.  They  are  a  warmhearted  and  devoted  people.  They  believe 
without  skepticism.  They  have  a  simple,  childlike  faith  which  ad- 
mits of  no  cheap  rationalization. 

The  Lamanites  must  rise  in  majesty  and  power.  We  must  look 
forward  to  the  day  when  they  will  be  "white  and  delightsome," 
sharing  the  freedoms  and  blessings  which  we  enjoy;  when 
they  shall  have  economic  security,  culture,  refinement,  and  educa- 
tion; when  they  shall  be  operating  farms  and  businesses  and 
industries  and  shall  be  occupied  in  the  professions  and  in  teaching; 
when  they  shall  be  organized  into  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  furnish- 
ing much  of  their  own  leadership;  when  they  shall  build  and  occupy 
and  fill  the  temples,  and  serve  in  them  as  the  natives  are  now  serv- 
ing in  the  Hawaiian  Temple  where  I  found  last  year  the  entire  ser- 
vice conducted  by  them  and  done  perfectly.  And  in  the  day  when 
their  prophet  shall  come,  one  shall  rise 

.  .  .  mighty  among  them  .  .  .  being  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
God,  with  exceeding  faith,  to  work  mighty  wonders.  ...  (II  Nephi  3:24.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  the  florescence  of  the  Lamanites  is  in  our 
hands.  May  we  not  fail  them,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


23 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the.  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father  during  the 
few  moments  that  I  shall  occupy  this  morning. 

As  I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  this  great  congregation  and 
contemplated  the  other  thousands  to  whom  the  message  of  this  con- 
ference has  been  directed,  I  have  had  this  question  in  my  mind: 
From  what  kind  of  homes  have  we  come  this  morning?  How  many 
of  us  knelt  in  family  prayer  before  leaving  to  come  to  conference  or 
to  go  to  our  various  fields  of  endeavor?  Do  we  come  from  homes 
where  there  is  a  spirit  of  love  and  unity — where  there  is  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel?  Do  we  come  from  true  Latter-day  Saint  homes? 

The  Home  A  Divine  Institution 

The  Lord  has  implanted  in  every  breast  a  desire  for  mating  and 
home-building.  The  intimate  associations  of  husband  and  wife, 
parents  and  children  are  among  the  sweetest  and  most  soul-satisfying 
experienced  in  this  life.  The  desire  for  home  and  family  is  a  strong 
and  natural  impulse.  What  sweet  memories  surge  up  in  our  hearts 
at  the  mere  mention  of  mother,  father,  brothers  and  sisters,  home 
and  family!  The  Lord  has  designed  it  so.  The  family  is  a  divine 
institution  established  by  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is  basic  to  civili- 
zation and  particularly  to  Christian  civilization.  The  establishment 
of  a  home  is  not  only  a  privilege,  but  marriage  and  the  bearing,  rear- 
ing, and  proper  training  of  children  is  a  duty  of  the  highest  order. 

To  Latter-day  Saints  the  first  and  great  commandment  is  a 
stern  reality,  second  to  none  in  importance.  No  one  capable  of  per- 
forming this  sacred  duty  is  exempt,  no  matter  what  his  station  in 
life.  Marriage,  home,  and  family  are  established  by  God  as  part 
of  his  divine  plan  for  the  blessing  of  his  children.  The  richest  bless- 
ings and  deepest  joys  of  this  life  and  the  life  to  come  are  tied  up  with 
the  performance  of  these  sacred  duties.  In  fact,  our  very  exaltation 
in  the  celestial  kingdom  is  directly  related  to  the  family  and  the 
eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant. 

The  Training  of  Children 

There  are  many  people  today  in  the  Christian  world,  and  pos- 
sibly even  among  Latter-day  Saints,  who  feel  that  they  have  done 
their  duty  when  they  have  provided  food,  shelter,  clothing,  secular 
education,  and  accumulated  wealth  which  their  children  will  inherit 
later.  However,  this  is  not  enough.  According  to  the  revelations 
which  the  Lord  has  given,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  provide  all  of  these 
and  even  to  send  our  children  to  Sunday  School,  to  Primary,  and  to 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations.  There  is  still  much  to  be 
done. 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  Fitst  Da-" 

Obligation  of  Parents 

The  Church  had  only  been  organized  a  very  short  time  when 
the  Lord  spoke  regarding  the  important  obligation  of  parents  in  the 
training  of  their  children.  May  I  read  a  few  words  from  the  Doctrine 

and  Covenants,  ofttimes  quoted: 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any 
of  her  stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand 
the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 
(D.  &  C.  68:25.) 

The  obligation  to  teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel  to  the  youth 
of  Zion  rests  squarely  upon  the  parents  of  the  Church.  Not  only  is 
there  an  obligation  to  teach  these  principles,  but  the  Lord  says  further 
in  this  same  revelation: 

And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands.  (Ibid., 
68:27.) 

It  is  an  obligation  of  parents  to  see  that  these  sacred  ordinances 
are  performed  after  the  children  have  been  properly  taught.  It  is 
not  the  prerogative  of  parents  to  permit  their  children  to  grow  up  and 
choose  for  themselves.  It  is  their  duty  and  obligation  to  train  them 
when  they  are  yet  young,  and  to  see  that  these  important  ordinances 
are  performed  in  their  behalf. 

In  this  same  revelation  the  Lord  indicates  that  it  is  the  responsi- 
bility of  parents  to  teach  their  children  to  pray.  This  does  not  mean 
secret  prayers  only.  I  am  sure  it  means  to  teach  by  example  through 
family  prayers.  We  need  the  sanctifying  influence  which  comes 
from  devotion  in  the  home — prayer  as  a  family.  The  Lord  indicates 
further  that  they  should  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  that  they  should 
remember  their  labors,  that  there  should  be  no  idleness,  and  he  speaks 
very  clearly  regarding  the  matter  of  children  growing  up  in  idleness, 
for  he  says: 

Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion, 
for  there  are  idlers  among  them;  and  their  children  are  also  growing  up 
in  wickedness;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but 
their  eyes  are  full  of  greediness.  These  things  ought  not  to  be,  and  must 
be  done  away  from  among  them;  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  68:31,  32.) 

This  revelation  given  in  Ohio  something  over  a  year  after  the 
Church  was  organized  was  also  carried  by  Oliver  Cowdery  to  the 
Saints  in  Zion  by  command  of  the  Lord. 

No  Parent  Exempt  from  Responsibilities 

We  find  also  in  the  revelations  that  the  Lord  makes  it  very  clear 
that  no  one  is  exempt  from  this  obligation  of  properly  training  his 
children.    I  wish,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  as  parents,  we  could 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


25 


merit  the  commendation  which  the  Lord  directed  to  Father  Abraham 
in  these  words: 

For  I  know  him,  that  he  will  command  his  children  and  his  house- 
hold after  him,  and  they  shall  keep  the  way  of  the  Lord,  .  .  .  (Genesis 
18:19.) 

If  we  could  only  merit  that  word  of  approval  as  husbands  and 
fathers  and  as  wives  and  mothers  in  Zion,  what  a  glorious  thing  it 
would  be! 

The  Lord  also  makes  it  clear,  in  one  of  the  other  revelations, 
that  he  expects  men  in  positions  of  leadership  to  discharge  this  sacred 
obligation,  and  that  when  men  are  called  to  be  bishops,  presidents  of 
stakes,  or  members  of  the  General  Authorities,  this  obligation  does 
not  cease.  No  matter  how  heavy  the  burden  we  are  called  upon  to 
bear,  no  matter  how  great  the  activity,  this  obligation  continues.  In 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  he  tells  of  the  contrast  between  the  two 
powers  that  are  at  work  in  the  universe,  the  power  of  evil  and  the 
power  of  truth  and  light. 

The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in  other  words,  light  and  truth. 
Light  and  truth  forsake  that  evil  one.  (D.  &  C.  93:  36,  37.) 

And  then  he  points  out,  that  the 

.  .  .  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men.  .  .  .  But  I  have  commanded 
you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and  truth.  (Ibid.,  93:39,  40.) 

Then  he  refers  to  some  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  He  calls 
them  his  friends,  and  he  chastizes  them  in  the  spirit  of  friendliness  and 
love.  He  refers  first  to  Frederick  G.  Williams  who  had  recently  been 
called  into  the  highest  council  in  the  Church: 

But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  servant  Frederick  G.  Williams,  you 
have  continued  under  this  condemnation;  You  have  not  taught  your 
children  light  and  truth,  according  to  the  commandments;  .  .  .  And  now 
a  commandment  I  give  unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered  you  shall  set 
in  order  your  own  house,  for  there  are  many  things  that  are  not  right  in 
your  house.  (Ibid.,  93:41-43.) 

And  of  Sidney  Rigdon  in  similar  vein: 

.  .  .  that  in  some  things  he  hath  not  kept  the  commandments  con- 
cerning his  children;  therefore,  first  set  in  order  thy  house.  (Ibid.,  93:44.) 

And  then  even  to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  Joseph  Smith,  Jun. — You  have  not  kept 
the  commandments,  and  must  needs  stand  rebuked  before  the  Lord; 
Your  family  must  needs  repent  and  forsake  some  things,  and  give  more 
earnest  heed  unto  your  sayings  ,or  be  removed  out  of  their  place. 
(Ibid.,  93:47,  48.) 

Then  the  Lord  also  comments  regarding  Newel  K.  Whitney,  a 
bishop  in  the  Church,  and  adds  this  as  though  to  include  us  all: 

What  I  say  unto  one  I  say  unto  all.  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  93:49.) 


26 

Friday.  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
Home  Evening  Inaugurated 


First  Day 


This  is  a  serious  obligation,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Down 
through  the  years  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  other 
leaders  have  counseled  and  have  admonished  us  regarding  the  sacred 
obligation  of  parenthood  and  the  teaching  of  children  in  the  home. 
It  was  during  the  ministry  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  that  a  new 
project  was  organized  and  announced  in  the  Church,  and  a  letter 
directed  to  presidents  of  stakes,  bishops  of  wards,  and  parents  in 
Zion  from  which  I  quote  the  following: 

.  .  .  we  advise  and  urge  the  inauguration  of  a  "Home  Evening" 
throughout  the  Church,  at  which  time  fathers  and  mothers  may  gather 
their  boys  and  girls  about  them  in  the  home  and  teach  them  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  .  .  .  (The  Improvement  Era,  June  1915,  p.  733.) 

And  then  the  First  Presidency  made,  in  that  same  letter,  one  of 
the  greatest  promises  that  has  ever  been  made  to  parents  in  Israel, 
as  follows: 

If  the  Saints  obey  this  counsel,  we  promise  that  great  blessings  will 
result.  Love  at  home  and  obedience  to  parents  will  increase.  Faith  will 
be  developed  in  the  hearts  of  the  youth  of  Israel,  and  they  will  gain  power 
to  combat  the  evil  influences  and  temptations  which  beset  them.  (Ibid., 
p.- 734.) 

Shortly  thereafter  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  with 
the  approval  of  the  First  Presidency,  used  as  their  slogan,  "We  stand 
for  a  weekly  home  evening." 

Subsequently,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  reaffirmed  the  instruc- 
tions previously  given  and  officially  endorsed  the  holding  of  a  family 
hour  in  the  home  as  an  effective  means  through  which  the  gospel  might 
be  taught  to  our  children  and  the  bonds  of  love  and  affection 
strengthened  between  parents  and  children.  And  then  on  January 
4,  1936,  the  First  Presidency  said  further: 

As  an  aid  to  parents  in  discharging  this  most  sacred  obligation 
and  duty  there  has  been  established  ...  a  "Home  Evening"  at  which 
time  parents  and  children  gather  around  the  family  hearth  in  social  and 
religious  communion.  In  this  day  when  socials,  parties,  dinners,  business 
interests,  etc.,  all  tend  to  lead  away  from  home  associations  the  adoption 
of  a  Home  Evening  is  highly  advisable.  It  furnishes  an  opportunity 
for  the  parents  to  become  better  acquainted  with  their  children  and 
for  children  to  know  and  appreciate  their  parents.  .  .  . 

We  commend  the  wards  and  the  stakes  that  are  making  special 
efforts  to  make  home  life  what  it  should  be — a  haven  of  peace,  in  which 
faith  in  God,  respect  and  deference  for  one  another  and  loyalty  for 
truth  and  righteousness  are  pervading  virtues.  (Claude  Richards,  Home 
Evening  Handbook,  pp.  2,  3.) 

Revival  of  Home  Evening 

During  the  past  few  months,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  under 
the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency,  has  given  further  consideration 
to  the  powerful  influences  which  tend  to  destroy  the  home  and  weaken 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


27 


the  relationship  between  parents  and  children.  As  a  result,  a  letter 
has  been  directed  by  President  George  F.  Richards  to  presidents  of 
stakes  and  bishops  of  wards  recommending  a  revival  and  further 
motivation  of  this  project  inaugurated  under  the  leadership  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  many  years  ago.  The  Council  has  called  to  its 
aid  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  heads  of  the  Church  auxiliaries  and 
of  course  the  local  priesthood  in  the  stakes  and  the  wards.  A 
major  responsibility  has  been  delegated  to  the  Relief  Society,  and 
through  this  great  organization  of  women — mothers  in  Israel — those 
who  play  such  an  important  part  in  the  training  of  our  children — 
has  been  given  the  responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  certain  ma- 
terials, as  helps  to  parents.  This  material  will  be  carried  into  the 
homes  by  the  Relief  Society  teachers  and  the  ward  teachers.  There 
will  be  talks  and  demonstrations  as  a  means  of  stimulating  interest 
in  this  worthwhile  project. 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  morning  may  I  appeal  to 
you  to  give  attention  to  this  project  as  it  is  inaugurated  and  spon- 
sored by  these  agencies  mentioned. 

There  can  be  no  genuine  happiness  separate  and  apart  from  the 
home.  The  sweetest  influences  and  associations  of  life  are  there. 
We  cannot  be  successful  no  matter  what  goals  we  attain  in  the  ma- 
terial world,  no  matter  what  honors  of  men  come  to  us;  we  will  not 
be  successful  in  our  lives  if  we  fail  as  fathers  and  as  mothers.  May 
we  have  no  regrets.  May  we  heed  the  counsel  that  has  been  given  us. 
May  we  realize  that  even  in  this  great  land  of  America,  endowed  so 
richly  as  President  Smith  mentioned  this  morning,  there  can  be  no 
enduring  prosperity  and  happiness  in  non-religious  homes.  The  in- 
tegrity of  the  home  must  be  maintained.  The  spiritual  foundation 
of  our  homes  must  be  strengthened.  Our  homes  must  receive  more 
attention;  otherwise  the  outcome  will  be  disappointing  to  all  of  us. 
More  recreation  and  more  devotion  in  the  home  will  result  in 
greater  family  solidarity.  This  is  a  great  obligation.  Our  happiness 
here  and  hereafter  is  tied  up  with  our  successful  discharge  of  this 
great  responsibility.  It  merits,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  our  prayer- 
ful planning  and  attention,  and  I  am  confident  in  my  own  heart  that 
great  dividends  will  result,  that  great  joy  and  satisfaction  will  come 
if  we  heed  this  as  all  other  counsels  given  to  us  by  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church.  And  I  promise  you,  as  your  humble  servant  this 
morning,  that  if  you  will  obey  this  counsel  as  parents  in  Zion,  love 
at  home  and  obedience  to  parents  will  increase;  faith  will  be  de- 
veloped in  the  hearts  of  the  youth  of  Israel,  and  they  will  gain 
power  and  strength  to  combat  the  evil  influences  and  temptations 
which  beset  them,  which  I  pray  for  on  behalf  of  the  homes  of  Israel, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pi'st  D^ 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing  "Praise 
the  Lord,  Ye  Heavens  Adore  Him"—  ( Handel ) . 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Oscar  J. 
Harline  of  the  Grant  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  as  indicated  this  morn- 
ing. The  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later  than  ten  min- 
utes before  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Praise  The  Lord,  Ye 
Heavens  Adore  Him." 

President  Oscar  J.  Harline  of  the  Grant  Stake  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer,  after  which  the  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  at  his  request  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Clark  will  conduct  the  services  this  afternoon. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  1 1 8th  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in 
Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young  of  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  fol- 
lowing stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at 
Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM 
at  Vernal  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the 
dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT 


29 


The  Choir  singing  of  this  session  will  be  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Central  Utah  Region.  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  will  conduct  their  singing;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper 
will  be  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Moth- 
ers rendering  "The  Lord  Is  My  Light" — (Allitsen). 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Joseph  I. 
Williams  of  the  Woodruff  Stake,  Evanston,  Wyoming. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers:  "The  Lord  is 
My  Light" — (Allitsen). 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  I.  Williams, 
President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang:  "Thanks  Be  To 
Thee" — ( Handel ) . 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  read  the  follow- 
ing report: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL 
CONFERENCE— 1947 

New  Mission  Presidents  Appointed: 

Glen  G.  Fisher  to  succeed  Joseph  Y.  Card  as  president  of  the 
Western  Canadian  Mission. 

Henry  A.  Matis  as  president  of  the  Finnish  Mission. 

Frederick  S.  Williams  as  president  of  the  Uruguayan  Mission. 

Floyd  G.  Eyre  to  succeed  Octave  W.  Ursenbach  as  president  of 
the  Canadian  Mission. 

S.  Eugene  Flake,  to  succeed  Ralph  Wm.  Evans  as  president  of 
the  Navajo-Zuni  Mission. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen : 

Golden  L.  Woolf,  president  of  the  East  Provo  Stake. 

Walter  R.  Holdaway,  president  of  the  Orem  Stake. 

J.  Earl  Lewis,  president  of  the  West  Utah  Stake. 

Octave  W.  Ursenbach,  president  of  the  Lethbridge  Stake  to 
succeed  Asael  E.  Palmer. 

Clarence  Dickson  Rich,  president  of  the  Morgan  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed George  Sylvester  Heiner. 

H.  Vearle  Payne,  president  of  the  Mt.  Graham  Stake  to  succeed 
J.  Harold  Mitchell. 

James  H.  Walker,  president  of  the  Taylor  Stake  to  succeed  T. 
George  Wood. 

Rulon  P.  Peterson,  president  of  the  Lake  View  Stake  to  succeed 
John  Child. 

Albert  I.  Morgan,  president  of  the  Spokane  Stake. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pkst  Day 

L.  Tom  Perry,  president  of  the  Cache  Stake  to  succeed  William 
W.  Owen. 

A  Leland  Elmer,  president  of  the  Panguitch  Stake  to  succeed 
Samuel  Pollock. 

Glen  M.  Bennion,  president  of  the  South  Box  Elder  Stake  to 
succeed  Abel  S.  Rich. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

East  Provo  Stake  organized  by  a  division  of  the  Provo  Stake, 
April  13,  1947. 

Orem  Stake  organized  by  a  division  of  the  Sharon  Stake,  April 
13,  1947. 

West  Utah  Stake  organized  by  a  division  of  the  Utah  Stake, 
May  4,  1947. 

Spokane  Stake  organized  from  the  Spokane  District  of  the  North- 
western States  Mission.  June  29.  1947. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Heber  4th  Ward,  Wasatch  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Heber  3rd  Ward. 

South  Grant  Ward,  Cottonwood  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Grant  Ward. 

North  1 7th  Ward,  Salt  Lake  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
17th  Ward. 

Linda  Vista  Ward,  San  Diego  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Hillcrest  Ward. 

East  Midvale  Ward,  East  Midvale  Stake  was  divided  to  form 
East  Midvale  1  st  and  2nd  Wards. 

Provo  12th  Ward,  East  Provo  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Provo  9th  Ward. 

Provo  1 3th  Ward,  East  Provo  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Provo  9th  Ward. 

Dishman,  Lewiston,  Moscow,  North  Spokane,  Spokane  Central 
Wards,  Spokane  Stake,  formerly  branches  in  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission. 

Rock  Springs  Ward,  Lyman  Stake  was  divided  to  form  Rock 
Springs  1st  and  2nd  Wards. 

St.  George  East,  West,  South  and  Center  Wards,  St.  George 
Stake,  were  divided  to  form  St.  George  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  and  6th 
Wards. 

Layton,  West  Layton,  and  East  Layton  Wards,  North  Davis 
Stake  were  divided  to  form  Layton  1st,  2nd,  3rd  and  4th  Wards. 

Burley  5th  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake  formed  by  a  division  of  Bur- 
ley  1st  Ward. 

Garland  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake  was  divided  to  form  Garland 
1st  and  2nd  Wards. 

Nyssa  Ward,  Weiser  Stake  was  divided  to  form  Nyssa  1st  and 
2nd  Wards 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  31 

Hillcrest  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  from  a  division  of  Geneva, 
Timpanogas  and  Grand  View  Wards. 

Wards  Discontinued: 

Marsh  Center  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake  joined  with  the  Garden 
Creek  Ward. 

Preston  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  joined  with  the  Lund  Ward. 
Liberty  Ward,  Gridley  Stake  joined  with  Gridley  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Moccasin  Ward,  Kanab  Stake,  formerly  Moccasin  Independent 
Branch. 

Reseda  Ward,  San  Fernando  Stake,  formerly  Reseda  Indepen- 
dent Branch. 

Hood  River  Ward,  Portland  Stake,  formerly  Hood  River  Inde- 
pendent Branch. 

San  Fernando  Ward,  San  Fernando  Stake,  formerly  San  Fer- 
nando Independent  Branch. 

Owyhee  Ward,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly  Adrian  and  Owyhee 
Independent  Branches. 

Willow  Glen  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake,  formerly  Willow  Glen 
Independent  Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Arsenal  Villa  Branch,  Lake  View  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent 
branch. 

Alexandria  Branch,  Washington  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent 
branch. 

Bonneville  Park  Branch,  Ben  Lomond  Stake. 
Wymount  Branch,  East  Provo  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Provo  9th 
Ward. 

Athol,  Bonner's  Ferry,  Coeur  D'Alene,  Colville,  Kellog-Wal- 
lace,  and  Sandpoint  Branches,  formerly  branches  of  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 

Stadium  Village  Branch,  Emigration  Stake. 

Sahara  Village  Branch,  North  Davis  Stake. 

/ ndependent  Branches  Discontinued: 

Hazel  Branch,  Burley  Stake,  united  with  Unity  Ward. 

Ward  Names  Changed: 

College  Ward,  San  Diego  Stake,  name  changed  to  LeMesa 
Ward. 

Mountaire  Ward,  Hillside  Stake,  name  changed  to  Colonial 
Hills  Ward. 

Branch  Name  Changed: 

Dubois  Branch,  Rigby  Stake  changed  to  Beaver  Creek  Branch. 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

Ward  Transferred: 

Mendon  Ward,  Hyrum  Stake  transferred  to  Logan  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

W.  Ellis  Bay.  former  president  of  the  Garfield  Stake,  passed 
away  August  16th,  1947. 

Edith  Grant  Young,  wife  of  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  passed  away  August  20,  1947. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

During  the  few  minutes  allotted  to  me  in  this  conference,  I  desire 

to  give  brief  consideration  to  a  problem  that  is  arousing  more  and 
more  attention  among  those  thinking  people  of  America  who  are 
deeply  concerned  with  their  moral  and  spiritual  welfare.  I  refer  to 
the  liquor  problem— one  of  the  most  challenging  and  difficult  of  all 
unsolved  internal  problems  that  face  the  country  today,  a  problem 
of  major  importance.  Of  course  the  point  of  view  from  which  I  shall 
look  at  this  problem  is  that  given  me  by  the  moral  teachings  and 
standards  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Yet 
I  hasten  to  say  that  in  respect  to  the  liquor  problem  the  teachings 
and  standards  of  multitudes  of  people  in  other  churches  and  organiza- 
tions are  similar  to  our  own.  Some  of  them  recognize  as  clearly  and 
keenly  as  we  do  that  drinking  is  an  evil  that  all  good,  right-thinking 
people  should  unite  to  eliminate. 


Use  of  Alcohol  Destructive 

I  use  the  word  "drinking,"  as  meaning  the  imbibing  of  a  liquid 
containing  alcohol,  which  is  a  definite  chemical  compound,  once  des- 
cribed by  the  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association  as 

...  a  poison  inherently,  absolutely,  essentially;  in  a  drop  or  in  a 
gallon  in  all  quantities  and  in  every  quantity.  Plainly  its  quantity  can- 
not affect  its  chemical  constitution. 

And  when  drunk,  what  does  alcohol  do?  In  the  lanquaqe  of 
the  late  Robert  G.  Ingersoll: 

...  alcohol  burns  up  men,  consumes  women,  destroys  life,  curses 
Ood,  and  despises  heaven.  It  suborns  witnesses,  defiles  the  jury  box, 
and  stains  the  judicial  ermine.  It  bribes  voters,  corrupts  elections,  en- 
dangers  the  government  degrades  the  citizen,  debases  the  legislature,  dis- 
honors the  statesman.  It  brings  shame,  not  honor;  terror,  not  safety; 
3  "0t  h^e;  fmisery-,  not  happiness.   It  destroys  peace  and  ruins 

Jfmn7erithe,  iScthe  father  of  a11  crime'  the  mother  of 

all  abominations,  the  devil  s  best  friend. 

In  the  language  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church: 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


33 


Drink  brings  cruelty  into  the  home;  it  walks  arm  in  arm  with  poverty; 
its  companions  are  disease  and  plague;  it  puts  chastity  to  flight;  it  knows 
neither  honor  nor  fair  dealing;  it  is  a  total  stranger  to  truth;  it  drowns 
conscience;  it  is  the  bodyguard  of  evil;  it  curses  all  who  touch  it. 
Drink  has  brought  more  woe  and  misery,  broken  more  hearts,  wrecked 
more  homes,  committed  more  crimes,  filled  more  coffins  than  all  the  wars 
the  world  has  suffered. 

It  is  involved  in  more  traffic  accidents  and  fatalities,  and  sends 
more  patients  to  mental  hospitals  than  any  other  single  factor. 

Billions  of  Dollars  Wasted 

Yet  notwithstanding  these  facts,  which  warrant  a  bitter  arraign- 
ment of  alcohol,  there  are  an  estimated  one  hundred  million  Ameri- 
cans over  fifteen  years  of  age,  fifty  million  of  whom  drink  more  or 
less  regularly.  According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  Com- 
merce these  people  spent  for  alcoholic  beverages  during  1946  nearly 
nine  billion  dollars  ($8,770,000,000).  This  is  more  than  was  spent 
during  the  same  period  for  all  types  of  public  and  private  schools  in- 
cluding school  and  university  libraries,  and  for  state  and  federal 
government  services  in  the  fields  of  health,  welfare,  old  age  assist- 
ance, etc. 

Of  the  fifty  million  drinkers,  it  is  estimated  that  three  million 
drink  excessively,  that  is,  are  alcoholics — people  who  have  measur- 
ably lost  control  of  their  drinking.  They  have  acquired  the  disease 
of  alcoholism,  as  it  is  termed  by  the  experts.  One  who  suffered  from 
this  disease — Mrs.  Marty  Mann,  now  executive  director  of  the  Na- 
tional Committee  for  Education  on  Alcoholism — said  in  her  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System  broadcast  last  December: 

These  were  the  most  painful  years  of  my  life.  I  suffered  constantly, 
not  just  one  kind  of  pain,  but  all  kinds  of  pain.  I  suffered  physically, 
mentally,  emotionally,  financially,  and  socially — in  every  department 
of  my  life.  I  tell  you,  honestly,  and  on  behalf  of  those  three  million 
human  beings,  that  alcoholism  is  the  most  painful  disease  known  to  man. 

Lectures  on  "You  and  Alcohol" 

Some  of  you  may  remember  that  several  months  ago  the  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  System  carried  over  its  network  thirteen  lectures 
entitled  "You  and  Alcohol,"  described  as 

A  series  of  broadcasts  examining  the  problem  of  alcoholic  con- 
sumption in  the  United  States  and  its  effect  upon  our  people  and  our  in- 
stitutions, delivered  on  Tuesday  nights,  beginning  November  12,  1946. 

The  preface  to  these  lectures  said: 

Since  alcohol  touches  the  lives  of  large  numbers  of  people,  it  seemed 
logical  to  Columbia  to  consider  it  a  problem  in  which  radio's  special 
and  unique  functions  could  be  usefully  employed  to  translate  the  problem 
into  plain,  arresting  terms  and  to  bring  it  directly  to  the  attention  of 
millions  of  listeners. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Daf 

Each  of  the  thirteen  speakers  was  considered  an  expert  on  the 
phase  of  the  subject  of  which  he  spoke.  I  have  just  quoted  one  of  the 
speakers.  Nine  of  the  others  were  doctors  in  various  fields  of  re- 
search— medicine,  neurology,  psychology,  sociology,  psychiatry. 
Seemingly  they  all  agreed  with  Mrs.  Mann — as  do  medical  experts 
generally — that  alcoholism  is  a  disease,  as  certainly  as  pneumonia, 
tuberculosis,  and  cancer  are  diseases,  and  should  be  treated  as  such. 
One  of  these  speakers,  Dr.  Lyman  C.  Duryea,  wrote: 

As  a  physician,  I  am  concerned  about  those  people  who  drink  to 
excess  and  cannot  control  their  drinking  [alcoholics].  These  people  need 
medical  care.  .  .  .  They  are  sick  people. 

Alcoholism  A  Disease 

The  alcoholic  (compulsive  drinker,  Dr.  Duryea  calls  him)  finds 
it  absolutely  impossible  to  drink  in  moderation.  This  means  all 
alcoholic  beverages,  as  well  as  medicines,  or  anything  else  contain- 
ing alcohol.  Complete  abstinence  is  his  only  salvation.  The  person 
with  an  alcohol  problem  must  remember  that  he  is  a  sick  person  and 
that  never  again  can  he  take  a  drink  "of  anything  that  contains 
alcohol."  So,  let  us  admit  that  alcoholism  is  a  disease.  However, 
there  is  one  peculiarity  about  the  disease — it  is  never  acquired  by  any- 
one who  does  not  take  his  first  drink.  This  is  a  fact.  Let  everyone 
remember  it. 

As  just  stated,  according  to  accepted  figures,  fifty  million  Ameri- 
cans drink.  Of  this  number,  three  million,  one  in  sixteen — six  per- 
cent acquire  the  disease  of  alcoholism,  become  sick  and  in  need  of 
treatment.  This  is  more  than  twice  the  number  afflicted  with  tuber- 
culosis, we  are  told.  These  figures  indicate  the  magnitude  of  the 
problem.  (I  divert  to  express  the  opinion  that  the  most  certain  and  by 
all  odds  the  least  expensive  treatment  for  alcoholism  is  that  given 
by  Alcoholics  Anonymous,  groups  of  which  exist  all  over  America.) 
I  stated  that  no  one  ever  becomes  an  alcoholic  who  does  not  take 
his  first  glass. 

But  something  more  can  be  said.  According  to  the  experts  on 
alcohol,  no  one  who  begins  to  drink — be  he  rich  or  poor,  master  or 
servant,  learned  or  ignorant,  can  ever  know  until  it  is  too  late,  if 
he  continues  to  drink,  whether  or  not  he  will  get  the  alcoholic  disease. 
No  medical  examination  can  determine  this.  The  change  from  con- 
trolled to  uncontrolled  drinking  occurs  suddenly  and  without  warn- 
ing, so  the  experts  tell  us.  Thus  there  are  two  things  to  be  remem- 
bered about  this  disease  of  alcoholism:  It  costs  nothing  to  avoid 
getting  it,  and  nothing  to  avoid  its  recurrence,  if  once  rid  of  it.  Total 
abstinence  is  the  certain  remedy  both  before  and  after. 

Bill  to  Protect  Advertising  of  Liquor 


And  now  let  us  go  to  another  phase  of  the  alcohol  problem — that 
of  advertising.   On  May  12  and  13  of  this  year  ( 1947)  the  committee 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


35 


on  interstate  and  foreign  commerce  of  the  United  States  Senate 
gave  a  public  hearing  in  Washington,  D.  C,  on  Senate  Bill  265,  by 
Senator  Arthur  Capper  of  Kansas,  which  would  prohibit  all  types  of 
advertising  of  any  kind  of  alcoholic  beverage.  The  proponents  of 
the  bill  were  able  and  well  prepared  and  backed  by  many  resolutions 
of  church  and  other  organizations,  as  well  as  by  thousands  of  peti- 
tions, numerously  signed.  In  supporting  the  bill  Senator  Capper 
said: 

The  growth  and  extent  of  the  liquor  habit  in  the  United  States  in 
the  last  few  years  alarms  me.  We  were  told  preceding  repeal,  by  the 
advocates  of  repeal,  that  the  manufacturers  and  dealers  of  alcoholic  bev- 
erages would  discourage  excessive  drinking.  Yet  in  1946  the  national 
drink  bill  was  nearly  nine  billion  dollars,  eighty-nine  dollars  for  every 
person  in  the  United  States  over  eighteen  years  old — about  one-fourth 
of  the  federal  budget  for  the  coming  year.  Now,  Mr.  Chairman,  I  be- 
lieve that  the  tremendous  amount  of  advertising  seeking  to  whet  the 
appetite  for  drinking,  seeking  to  create  new  customers,  especially  among 
women  and  children,  has  much  to  do  with  the  greatly  increased  amount 
of  alcoholic  consumption  during  recent  years. 

Bishop  Wilbur  E.  Hammaker,  of  the  Methodist  Temperance 
Board,  in  his  testimony  said: 

Our  judges  all  the  way  up  through  the  Supreme  Court  have  de- 
cided again  and  again  that  the  liquor  business  is  hurtful  to  life,  is  an 
enemy  of  the  well-being  of  society  and  lives  only  by  sufferance.  It  has 
no  inherent  or  inalienable  rights.  .  .  .  Tragedy  stalks  the  liquor  business; 
it  is  constantly  violating  the  very  laws  that  permit  its  presence  in  our 
midst.  Its  history  is  sordid,  shameful,  slimy,  scrofulous,  rather  than  glad, 
noble,  and  fine  as  its  ads  try  to  tell  us. 

In  his  statement  before  the  committee,  Mr.  O.  G.  Christgau, 
superintendent  of  the  Iowa  Anti-Saloon  League,  among  other  things, 
related  that  Mr.  P.  S.  Dupont,  president  of  the  Association  Against 
the  Prohibition  Amendment,  wrote  two  years  prior  to  repeal  the 
following: 

Advertising  is  one  of  the  most  fruitful  means  of  increasing  business 
and  of  promoting  sales.  As  it  is  the  policy  of  this  country  to  reduce  sales 
of  liquor,  no  advertising  of  any  kind  should  be  permitted  manufacturers 
or  sellers. 

President  Roosevelt  in  proclaiming  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment  declared: 

The  objective  we  seek  through  the  national  policy  is  the  education 
of  every  citizen  toward  a  greater  temperance  throughout  the  nation. 

Compare  these  statements  with  the  fact  that  during  1946  more 
than  one  hundred  million  dollars  was  spent  in  advertising  alcoholic 
beverages. 

Dr.  Glen  Cunningham,  internationally  famous  some  years  ago 
as  an  athlete  and  now  a  university  professor,  was  a  witness  before 
the  committee.   Among  his  statements  were  these; 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 


In  my  work  with  thousands  of  young  people  during  the  past  fifteen 
years,  I  have  noticed  an  alarming  increase  in  the  number  who  use 
alcoholic  beverages.  Every  person,  conscious  of  the  startling  increase 
in  delinquency  among  youths,  in  deaths  and  injuries  from  accidents,  in 
murder  and  rape,  in  impoverished  and  broken  homes,  and  in  the  number 
of  mental  diseases,  realizes  the  urgent  need  for  the  passage  by  Congress 
of  Senator  Capper's  bill.  The  cost  in  human  misery,  maimed  bodies 
and  minds,  the  lost  lives,  makes  it  inestimably  more  important  that  the 
advertising  of  alcoholic  beverages  which  contribute  so  heavily  to  these 
great  tragedies,  be  brought  under  control. 

Support  of  Capper  Bill  Urged 

In  view  of  the  results  that  follow  the  consumption  of  beverage 
alcohol,  why  do  the  American  people  tolerate  it?  I  leave  the  answer 
to  them.  In  any  case,  the  vast  sums  spent  for  widespread,  alluring, 
deceptive  advertising  have  had  much  to  do  with  it  and  with  greatly 
increased  consumption,  especially  among  women  and  teen-agers.  But 
may  I  ask  you,  the  Mormon  people,  why  do  you  tolerate  it?  You 
accept  and  teach  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  a  divine  revelation  in 
which  alcoholic  drinks  are  proscribed.  Thus  it  logically  follows  that 
Latter-day  Saints,  if  true  to  their  faith,  cannot  conscientiously  in- 
dulge in  drinking;  the  informal  world  knows  this.  Church  members 
cannot  indulge  without  displeasing  God  and  without  losing  more  or 
less  the  respect  of  their  non-Mormon  friends,  many  of  whom  look 
up6n  Mormon  drinkers  as  weaklings  or  hypocrites. 

But  may  we  not  with  perfect  propriety  and  expectation  of  favor- 
able response  ask  all  Church  and  non-Church  members  who  love  their 
fellow  men  and  will  work  for  their  best  good  to  do  whatever  in  their 
power  is  feasible  to  reduce  the  consumption  of  alcoholic  beverages 
to  the  smallest  attainable  limits?  As  one  means  to  this  end  let  us 
actively  support  the  Capper  Bill  and  pray  that  it  will  become  law, 
thus  going  far  to  eliminate  every  type  of  beverage  alcohol  advertis- 
ing. But  this  bill  will  not  become  law  except  over  the  strenuous  op- 
position of  the  financially  powerful  liquor  industry — an  industry  that 
has  spent  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  and  continues  to  spend  vast 
sums  in  advertising. 

Representative  Joseph  R.  Bryson  said  at  the  Senate  committee 
hearing  the  following: 

Advertising  shapes  our  lives  and  molds  the  rising  generation.  We 
eat,  drink,  dress,  and  think  according  to  advertising.  Immature  youths 
are  particularly  impressionable.  This  advertising  comes  to  us,  mainly 
by  press  and  radio.  If  the  artificially  stimulated  demand  for  intoxicants 
is  to  be  checked,  the  advertising  of  liquor  must  stop.  Liquor  advertising 
negates  the  educational  efforts  of  the  home,  the  school  and  the  church 
on  the  dangers  of  alcohol.  How  foolish  it  is  to  teach  youth  the  dangers 
of  liquor  while  allowing  the  stuff  to  be  advertised  in  the  most  alluring 
of  terms. 

Church  for  Total  Abstinence 


Again  I  ask:  Why  do  the  Mormon  people  tolerate  the  drinking 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


37 


of  alcoholic  beverages  by  their  members?  They  all  know  the  Church 
stands  irrevocably  for  total  abstinence.  Many  answers  are  given,  but 
perhaps  one  of  the  most  frequent  and  basic  is  that  no  one  may  be 
denied  his  "free  agency" — his  right  to  drink.  But  I  ask,  may  one  be 
permitted  to  inlulge  his  free  agency  when  to  do  so  endangers  the 
safety,  peace,  good,  and  happiness  of  others?  The  answer  of  our 
civil  laws  is  no. 

Satan  the  devil,  a  personal  being,  is  abroad  in  the  land  with  a 
multitude  of  helpers.  Back  to  him  stems  the  source  of  all  sins,  crimes, 
wickedness,  and  troubles  of  the  human  family.  Satan's  ambition  is 
to  handicap  the  Lord's  work.  This  he  tries  to  do  by  leading  away 
and  using  the  Father's  children  in  any  and  every  way  that  brings 
misery,  distress,  and  destruction  to  them.  Let  us  resolve  to  resist 
him  wherever  his  influence  is  manifested,  as  it  certainly  is  in  all 
phases  of  the  liquor  problem. 

Liquor  Advertising  Unmoral 

In  the  light  of  all  that  can  be  truthfully  said  of  the  effects  of  con- 
sumed alcohol  are  we  not  amply  justified  in  declaring  that  liquor 
advertising  is  unmoral  and  wrong?  To  encourage  and  induce  human 
beings,  particularly  the  youth  and  immature,  to  destroy  themselves 
is  wicked  in  the  sight  of  God  and  criminal  in  the  sight  of  man.  As  I 
see  it  nothing  more  mild  can  in  truth  be  said  of  the  vast  alcoholic 
beverage  promotion  business.  Back  of  it  all  may  be  found  some  of 
the  keenest  and  ablest  minds  working,  planning,  and  scheming  how 
to  get  more  and  more  people  to  drinking. 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in 
the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto 
you  this  word  of  wisdom  by  revelation.  (D.  &  C.  89:4.) 

Surely  Satan  is  working  through  these  men  to  the  injury  and  destruc- 
tion of  our  fellow  men. 

Of  course  many  of  these  people  move  in  respectable  and  so- 
called  high  grade  society.  But  this  does  not  change  the  fact  that 
their  business  is  damnable  and  should  not  be  advertised.  Traffic 
in  morphine,  marijuana,  stealing,  gambling,  prostitution,  and  many 
other  evils,  is  not  permitted  to  be  advertised.  Yet  in  its  evil  results 
does  not  the  liquor  traffic  outrank  any  one  of  these  wicked  businesses? 
In  justice  to  youth,  the  unwary,  and  people  generally,  is  not  the 
elimination  of  every  variety  of  liquor  advertising  the  very  least  we 
can  do  in  this  matter.  Let  us  sincerely  and  wholeheartedly  support 
the  Capper  Bill  S265. 

Brethren  and  sisters  of  this  Church,  by  promise  and  covenant 
we  are  obligated  to  serve  God  and  work  for  the  good  of  our  fellow 
men.  May  we  be  faithful  to  our  obligations,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  FirSt  D** 

ELDER  MARION   G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  come  before  you  with  deep 
appreciation  and  gratitude  for  my  association  with  you  and  for  my 
fellowship  in  the  Church.  I  stand  before  you  in  humility,  praying 
that  the  spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost  will  guide  me  while  I  speak,  for 
I  am  a  great  convert  to  the  statement  of  Nephi  that  when  a  man 
speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  In  all  my 
ministry  in  the  Church,  I  want  to  speak  and  act  under  the  influence 
of  that  spirit.  Without  it  I  think  we  are  less  than  nothing  in  this 
service. 

Peace  in  the  Midst  of  Turmoil 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  peace  and  quiet  that  prevail  here  in 
this  meeting.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  are  sitting  right  in  the  center 
of  a  hurricane,  as  it  were.  You  will  remember  the  report  that  when 
the  hurricane  passed  over  New  Orleans,  it  spread  great  havoc  for  a 
time,  and  then  of  a  sudden  a  calm  fell  over  the  scene;  the  wind  and 
the  rain  ceased;  and  the  warm  sunshine  broke  through  the  clearing 
clouds.  For  a  few  moments  the  city  was  in  the  "eye"  of  the  hurri- 
cane. 

In  the  world  today  there  is  strife  and  uncertainty  all  about. 
But  here  we  enjoy  peace.  I  thought  this  morning  when  President 
Smith  was  speaking,  what  a  glorious  thing  it  is  to  enjoy  peace  in 
the  midst  of  the  turmoil  that  the  world  now  suffers.  One  of  the 
reasons  why  we  enjoy  this  great  peace  is  a  result  of  the  attitude  in 
which  we  come  to  conference.  We  did  not  come  here  to  negotiate 
and  maneuver  for  position,  nor  out  of  our  own  wisdom  to  evolve 
action  policies  of  expediency.  We  came  here  to  hear  eternal  prin- 
ciples of  truth  expounded  by  men  whom  God  has  endowed  to  ex- 
pound them. 

Guiding  Principles  of  Truth 

I  am  grateful  that  I  know  that  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  there 
are  principles  of  eternal  truth.  They  are  the  guide  of  my  living, 
as  I  know  they  are  the  guide  to  your  living.  I  am  very  grateful 
that  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  give  us  these  principles.  I  recall,  too,  that 
the  Lord  gave  to  this  great  nation  some  principles  which  if  followed 
would  spare  us  from  much  of  the  confusion  in  our  national  councils 
and  our  international  councils.  Those  great  principles  are  set  forth 
in  two  short  documents,  the  Declaration  of  Independence  and  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

In  the  Constitution  the  Lord  set  out  wise  principles  for  the 
governing  of  this  great  nation.  He  stated  in  a  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  he  brought  forth  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  through  men  whom  he  raised  up  for  that  very  purpose. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


39 


Under  it,  a  great  representative  form  of  government  was  set  up,  a 
republican  form  of  government.  If  the  principles  set  out  in  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  were  followed  by  all  men  who 
exercise  authority  in  governments,  we  would  have  peace  in  the 
earth.  This  is  true  because  by  the  inspiration  of  heaven  that  Con- 
stitution made  provision  for  the  best  form  of  political  government 
ever  devised  for  the  use  of  man. 

Government  of  the  Church 

Now  the  Lord  has  set  up  a  form  of  government  in  the  Church, 
too.  I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  little  of  what  I  understand  that  form 
of  government  to  be.  The  Lord  says  that  it  is  a  "kingdom."  I  think 
he  says  in  one  of  the  revelations  that  we  should  pray  that  the  kingdom 
of  God  might  go  forth  upon  the  earth,  that  the  inhabitants  thereof 
may  receive  it  and  be  prepared  to  meet  the  kingdom  of  heaven  when 
it  shall  come  with  the  Master  at  its  head.  The  government  of  the 
Church  in  its  operation  is  quite  different  from  the  government  of  the 
United  States. 

In  the  Church  is  a  democratic  principle  known  as  the  law  of 
common  consent.  It  was  revealed  before  the  Church  was  organized. 
I  have  here  an  excerpt  from  the  first  volume  of  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  which  was  written  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  He  says  that  in  1 829  in  the  home  of  Father  Whitmer,  which 
was  in  Seneca  County,  as  you  will  remember, 

.  .  .  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  unto  us  in  the  chamber,  command- 
ing us  that  I  should  ordain  Oliver  Cowdery  to  be  an  elder  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  and  that  he  also  should  ordain  me  to  the  same 
office;  and  then  to  ordain  others,  as  it  should  be  made  known  unto  us 
from  time  to  time.  We  were,  however,  commanded  to  defer  this  our 
ordination  until  such  times  as  it  should  be  practicable  to  have  our  breth- 
ren, who  had  been  and  who  should  be  baptized,  assembled  together,  when 
we  must  have  their  sanction  to  our  thus  proceeding  to  ordain  each  other, 
and  have  them  decide  by  vote  whether  they  were  willing  to  accept  us  as 
spiritual  teachers  or  not.  (Documentary  History  o/  the  Church,  vol  .  1, 
pp.  60.  61.) 

Principle  of  Common  Consent 

The  Church  was  not  very  old  before  the  Lord  gave  the  direction 
in  a  revelation  that 

No  person  is  to  be  ordained  to  any  office  in  this  church,  where  there 
is  a  regularly  organized  branch  of  the  same,  without  the  vote  of  that 
church.    (D.  &  C.  20:65.) 

In  the  body  of  the  Church  there  lies  great  power.  No  man  can 
preside  over  any  organized  division  of  the  Church  without  the  con- 
sent of  those  over  whom  he  is  to  preside.  That  is  a  power  which  God 
has  vested  in  the  membership  of  this  Church.  Sometimes  I  think 
when  we  raise  our  hands  to  sustain  the  General  Authorities,  we  are 
not  actively  alive  to  that  great  principle.  No  one  of  us,  I  feel,  has  a 
right  to  raise  our  hand  to  sustain  any  man  or  woman  in  a  position 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Daf 

in  the  Church  if  we  know  that  that  man  or  woman  is  unworthy  of  the 
position  for  which  he  or  she  is  named. 

But  the  Church  membership,  however,  does  not  have  the  power 
to  nominate  men  and  women  for  office  in  the  Church.  That  is  a  dis- 
tinguishing feature  between  the  civil  government,  its  functioning, 
and  the  government  of  the  Church.  The  authority  and  the  power  to 
propose  men  and  women  for  office  in  the  Church  resides  in  the 
presiding  authority.  The  power  of  approval  resides  in  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church. 

God,  our  Eternal  Father,  appointed  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
to  be  his  prophet,  and  he  was  accountable  to  God,  our  Eternal  Father, 
and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  not  to  men.  But  even  so,  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  could  have  rejected  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
as  the  President  of  the  Church.  Had  they  done  so,  he  could  not  have 
presided  over  them.  They  would,  of  course,  have  been  apostate  had 
they  rejected  him,  because  he  never  lost  the  approval  of  the  Lord. 

When  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  is  to  be  appointed, 
as  I  understand  it,  the  power  of  nomination  resides  in  the  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  people 
have  the  right  to  sustain.  That  is  the  way  it  is,  all  down  through 
the  Church.  When  a  stake  is  to  be  organized,  the  Presidency  of 
this  Church  sends  members  of  the  General  Authorities  to  select 
and  propose  to  the  people  the  man  that  is  to  be  sustained,  and  the 
people  can  receive  hint  or  reject  him  by  their  own  vote.  That  takes 
politics  out  of  our  Church.  You  never  hear  of  a  prospective  stake 
president  promising  the  people  that  if  they  will  sustain  him,  he  will 
make  a  certain  man  the  bishop  of  a  certain  ward  and  another  man 
the  bishop  of  another  ward,  and  this  woman  the  president  of  Relief 
Society,  and  that  one  the  president  of  the  Mutual,  and  so  forth. 

Leadership  Inspired 

The  Lord  has  set  up  a  perfectly  safe  procedure  in  placing  the 
power  of  nomination  in  the  presiding  officers,  because  back  of  the 
government  of  the  Church  in  the  earth  is  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
himself.  I  believe  that  when  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  nomin- 
ates a  person  for  an  office,  it  is  not  a  personal  nomination.  I  have 
that  confidence  in  the  Presidency  and  that  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  Church.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  reveals  to  them 
through  the  spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the  men  they  should  name  to 
office,  and  I  believe  that  same  spirit  will  inspire  and  direct  the  presi- 
dents of  stakes  and  the  bishops  of  wards  and  the  heads  of  other 
organizations,  in  this  Church,  if  they  will  live  for  such  inspiration, 
so  that  when  they  name  people  for  office  they  will  name  them  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

In  addition  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  which  every  person 
is  entitled  to,  according  to  his  calling,  we  have  revealed  and  written 
down  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  other  Church  works, 
eternal  principles  of  truth  to  guide  us  through  the  world.    I  think 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


41 


we  ought  to  remember  that  we  have  these  principles,  for  this  is  a  day 
when  the  doctrine  of  opportunism  is  abroad  in  the  world,  and  when 
men  and  women  generally  act  on  the  principle  of  expediency.  So 
acting,  they  move  further  and  further  into  confusion.  In  the  Church, 
on  the  other  hand,  so  long  as  we  follow  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
and  the  proper  Church  organization  procedure,  we  move  into  peace, 
prosperity,  and  happiness. 

I  feel  that  we  ought  to  study  these  eternal  principles.  I  know 
that  the  Lord  said  we  should  study  all  things.  We  should  become 
learned  in  the  things  of  this  world,  study  about  nations,  histories, 
sciences,  and  all  other  things;  but  the  eternal  principles  of  truth  by 
which  we  are  to  guide  our  lives,  we  are  not  to  learn  by  the  study 
of  things  taught  by  men  without  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
Remember  what  the  Lord  said  to  the  missionaries  when  he  sent  them 
out.  He  said  he  did  not  send  them  out  to  be  taught;  he  sent  them 
out  to  teach  the  children  of  men  the  things  which  he  had  put  into 
their  hands  by  the  power  of  his  spirit.  They  were  to  learn  of  those 
things  from  on  high. 

Man  Responsible  for  His  Acts 

Now,  I  think  sometimes  we  get  away  from  these  eternal  prin- 
ciples of  truth.  The  other  day  I  was  in  a  conference  where  a  man 
presented  in  a  priesthood  meeting  the  doctrine  that  the  evils  of 
adultery  were  to  be  measured  by  their  effect  upon  the  whole  group, 
and  that  the  individual  adulterer  should  not  bear  the  burden  of  his 
own  act.  Some  time  before  that,  I  heard  the  doctrine  presented  that 
one  who  lives  the  Word  of  Wisdom  should  not  look  for  an  individual 
blessing  according  to  the  promise  the  Lord  gave  that  "all  saints 
who  remember  to  keep  and  to  do  these  sayings,  .  .  .  shall  receive 
health  in  their  navel"  and  so  forth,  but  that  the  probability  that  the 
individual  would  receive  such  blessings  would  be  increased  because 
of  his  membership  in  a  group  whose  standards  were  higher.  Now, 
I  believe  that  every  man  will  be  judged  on  his  own  record,  and  that 
the  adulterer  will  have  to  bear  personally  the  judgment  for  his  act,  and 
he  will  be  rewarded  according  to  his  act,  and  I  believe  as  the  Lord 
promised  in  the  first  verse  of  the  93rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  "that  every  soul  who  forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto 
me  [God],  and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth  my  voice,  and 
keepeth  my  commandments,  shall  see  my  face  and  know  that  I  am." 

I  would  like  to  find,  when  I  read  the  lessons  that  are  to  be 
presented  in  the  classes  of  the  organizations  of  this  Church,  an 
assurance  that  what  is  in  them  was  written  against  the  background 
of  the  knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  eternal  principles  of  the 
gospel,  unaffected  by  the  learning  and  philosophies  of  men.  I  think  we 
cannot  explain  the  teachings  of  Jesus,  as  they  are  recorded  in  the 
New  Testament,  in  the  absence  of  the  light  of  what  the  Redeemer 
himself  has  said  about  those  teachings  in  the  modern  revelations, 
and  I  think  we  need  to  hold  close  to  these  eternal  principles-  We 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  D*» 

must  learn  what  they  are.  If  we  would  spend  just  a  portion  of  the 
time  we  spend  reading  uninspired  writings  of  men  in  studying  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  is  written  in  the  revelations,  we  would 
not  be  deceived  as  we  sometimes  are. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  understand  who  we  are  and  that 
we  have  in  the  gospel  eternal  principles  of  truth.  May  he  give  us 
courage  and  strength  to  live  by  them,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  humility  that  I  stand  before 
you  to  occupy  a  few  moments  of  your  valuable  time.  At  this  season 
of  the  year  and  in  the  year  such  as  we  now  enjoy,  we  might  very  well 
look  back  upon  our  immediate  past  and  ask  ourselves  the  question 
whether  or  not  the  counsel  and  advice  that  was  given  from  this 
stand  eleven  and  a  half  years  ago  has  yet  become  a  cardinal  principle 
of  our  lives  and  of  our  activities.  Have  we,  all  of  us,  in  our  homes 
today  a  year's  supply  of  the  necessities  of  life?  Have  we  all  up-to- 
date  accounted  to  the  Lord  for  our  tithing?  Have  we  fasted  during  the 
year  and  accounted  to  the  bishop  for  the  savings  thus  effected?  Have 
we  contributed  as  liberally  as  we  might  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  1947 
welfare  budget?  These  are  important  questions  in  our  lives  today, 
as  important,  and  maybe  more  so  than  ever  before,  and  if  we  have 
not  done  this,  then  we  certainly  lack  the  faith  and  the  courage  to  do 
what  our  great  leaders  have  suggested. 

Testimony  of  Welfare  Program 

I've  often  had  occasion  to  say  as  I  traveled  through  the  Church 
in  the  welfare  work  that  President  Grant,  when  he  called  me  to  the 
general  welfare  committee,  did  not  ask  me  if  I  was  converted  to  this 
great  principle  of  the  Church  taking  care  of  its  own;  he  simply  told 
me  that  I  had  been  called  to  this  work  and  was  expected  to  go  forth 
and  do  those  things  which  were  necessary  to  build  up  this  plan 
among  our  people.  I  felt  very  much  impressed  this  morning  with 
what  President  Smith  said  to  us  about  what  we  see  and  hear.  That  is 
not  the  important  thing.  The  important  thing  to  you  and  to  me  is 
the  thing  that  we  feel,  and  I  am  here  to  tell  you  today,  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  all  humility  that  there  has  never  been  a  moment  in  my  life 
since  President  Grant  called  me  to  this  welfare  work  that  I  haven't 
felt  well  in  it  and  felt  that  I  was  doing  something  that  the  Lord  desired 
should  be  done.  And  so  governed  by  the  standards  that  our  prophet 
has  set  us  here  today,  it  gives  me  pleasure  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  that  there  is  still  great  need  in  the  world  today  and  in  this 
Church  for  this  great  welfare  program. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


43 


Opposition  of  Adversary 

In  reading  The  Life  of  Brigham  Young  the  other  day  I  came 
across  this  passage: 

It  was  revealed  to  me  in  the  commencement  of  this  Church  that 
the  Church  would  spread,  prosper,  grow  and  expand,  and  that  in  propor- 
tion to  the  spread  of  the  gospel  among  the  nations  of  the  earth  so  would 
the  power  of  Satan  rise. 

And  I  have  a  conviction  within  me  that  we  have  had  the  power 
of  the  adversary  made  manifest  against  us  in  endeavoring  to  pro- 
mulgate this  welfare  program  among  our  people,  and  I  believe  that 
the  adversary  has  used  some  of  his  strongest  workers  to  keep  you 
and  me  from  following  the  advice  and  the  counsel  of  our  leaders 
as  we  should  have  done,  and  we  have  not  been  as  diligent  in  per- 
forming these  duties  that  devolve  upon  us  in  this  welfare  plan  as  we 
should  have  been. 

If  we  had  maintained  the  standards  of  the  Church  in  con- 
nection with  our  welfare  work  in  the  last  eleven  and  a  half 
years,  we  could  have  blessed  the  people  of  Europe  many  times  more 
than  we  already  have  because  we  would  have  had  many  times  more 
than  the  eighty-three  cars  that  have  gone  over  there  to  alleviate 
their  suffering.  As  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  determine  in  our  lives, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  consider  this  matter  seriously,  we  have 
not  been  imposed  upon;  we  have  not  suffered.  This  welfare  pro- 
gram has  been  no  burden  to  us.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  those  people 
in  this  Church  who  have  taken  the  advice  and  the  counsel  of  our 
brethren  literally  have  been  blessed. 

Observance  of  the  Sabbath  Day 

There  is  another  thing  that  is  close  to  my  heart  today, 
and  I  seem  impelled  to  speak  upon  it,  and  that  is  that  the  bounties 
of  this  earth  have  been  promised  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  all 
the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father  if  we  keep  the  Sabbath  day 
holy.  We  certainly  have  plenty  of  reason  to  give  this  matter  con- 
sideration in  connection  with  our  welfare  work.  One  of  the  earliest 
commandments  that  were  given  to  man  was  that  we  should  remember 
the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy: 

Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do  all  thy  work: 
But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt 
not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  nor  thy  man- 
servant, nor  thy  maid  servant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is 
within  thy  gates: 

For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all 
that  in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day:  wherefore  the  Lord  blessed 
the  sabbath  day  and  hallowed  it.  (Exodus  20:9-11.) 

Brigham  Young  said  on  this  subject: 

Now  remember,  my  brethren,  those  who  go  skating,  buggy  riding  or 
on  excursions  on  the  Sabbath  day — and  there  is  a  great  deal  of  this 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  *irst  ba* 

practised— are  weak  in  the  faith.  Generally,  little  by  little,  the  spirit 
of  their  religion  leaks  out  of  their  hearts  and  their  affections,  and  by 
and  by  they  begin  to  see  fault  in  their  brethren,  faults  in  the  doctrines 
of  the  Church,  faults  in  the  organization,  and  at  last  they  leave  the 
Kingdom  of  God  and  go  to  destruction.  .  .  .  The  Lord  has  directed  his 
people  to  rest  one-seventh  part  of  the  time,  and  we  take  the  first  day  of 
the  week,  and  call  it  our  Sabbath.  This  is  according  to  the  order  of  the 
Christians.  We  should  observe  this  for  our  own  temporal  good  and 
spiritual  welfare.  When  we  see  a  farmer  in  a  hurry,  that  he  has  to 
attend  to  his  harvest,  and  to  haying,  fence-making,  or  to  gathering  his 
cattle  on  the  Sabbath  day,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  count  him  weak 
in  the  faith.  He  has  lost  the  spirit  of  his  religion,  more  or  less.  Six  days 
are  enough  for  us  to  work,  and  if  we  wish  to  play,  play  within  the  six 
days;  if  we  wish  to  go  on  excursions,  take  one  of  those  six  days,  but  on 
the  seventh  day,  come  to  the  place  of  worship,  attend  to  the  Sacrament, 
confess  your  faults  one  to  another  and  to  our  God,  and  pay  attention  to 
the  ordinances  of  the  house  of  God.  (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young, 
p.  165.) 

Obedience  Brings  Blessings 

And  there  is  one  other  matter  on  this  subject  that  I  would  like 
to  read  while  I  am  on  the  subject  generally,  and  that  is  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  we  are  promised  that  by  keeping  the  Sabbath  day 
holy  the  fulness  of  the  earth  shall  be  ours,  and  so  I  repeat  again, 
that  there  is  a  pretty  simple  formula  if  we  have  faith  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  If  the  fulness  of  the  earth  is  ours,  we'll  never  have  any 
trouble  meeting  our  welfare  budget;  we'll  never  have  any  trouble 
taking  care  of  those  people  who  need  assistance  at  our  hands.  The 
trouble  with  us  is  that  we  lack  the  courage  to  rely  implicitly  upon 
the  work  of  God  and  to  do  as  he  has  advised  us  to  do. 

We  are  much  richer  in  this  Church  today  than  we  give  our- 
selves credit  for  being.  There  isn't  a  people  upon  the  earth  today 
who  are  as  rich  as  we  are.  Just  think  of  the  blessings  that  are  ours, 
and  in  what  rich  abundance  we  enjoy  them.  We  have  faith;  we 
have  truth;  we  have  virtue;  we  have  charity;  we  have  humility;  we 
have  thrift,  industry,  ambition,  enthusiasm;  and,  as  a  result  of  all  of 
these  virtues,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  the  necessities  of 
life  in  the  midst  of  the  people  in  this  Church  in  rich  abundance.  Now, 
if  we  are  rich,  and  I  am  sure  we  are,  then  we  should  take  to  heart 
the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  revealed  to  him  by  our 
Heavenly  Father  because  he  was  not  speaking  as  man  to  man,  but 
he  spoke  when  he  uttered  these  words  as  the  mouthpiece  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.   He  said: 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor, 
for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation 
in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation:  The  harvest 
is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved! 

Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are 
not  stayed  from  laying  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full 
of  greediness,  and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands! 

But  blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  whose  hearts  are  broken,  and 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


45 


whose  spirits  are  contrite,  for  they  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  coming 
in  power  and  great  glory  unto  their  deliverance;  for  the  fatness  of  the 
earth  shall  be  theirs.  (D.  &  C.  56:16-18.) 

Here  is  another  promise  of  all  that  we  need  to  accomplish  all 
of  God's  purposes  here  upon  the  earth,  temporally  as  well  as  spirit- 
ually: 

For  behold,  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  his  recompense  shall  be  with 
him,  and  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice;  .  .  . 
(Ibid.,  19.) 

The  Spirit  of  Service 

We  have  the  spirit  of  contribution,  and  I  am  sure  that  spirit  of 
contribution  goes  hand  in  hand,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the 
spirit  of  missionary  work  which  we  are  doing  in  this  Church.  Think 
of  it,  four  thousand  missionaries  in  the  field  preaching  the  gospel!  I 
say  that  this  spirit  of  contribution  is  with  us  because  what  are  we 
doing  in  our  missionary  work?  We  are  contributing  the  knowledge 
to  those  to  whom  we  send  our  missionaries,  that  we  have  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  It's  a  spirit  of  sacrifice;  it's  a  spirit  of  service;  and 
along  with  the  teachings  of  the  spiritual  doctrines  that  we  have 
been  given  in  this  day  and  age  through  our  prophets  go  the  temporal 
needs  and  salvation  of  our  people.  And  that  is  what  our  great  wel- 
fare program  does. 

Honor  to  Parents 

You  know  there  is  one  other  thing  that  our  program  does  that  is 
certainly  praiseworthy.  The  Apostle  Paul  when  he  was  speaking 
to  the  Ephesians  said: 

Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord:  for  this  is  right. 
Honour  thy  father  and  mother;  (which  is  the  first  commandment 
with  promise;) 

That  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  thou  mayest  live  long  on  the 
earth.  And,  ye  fathers,  provoke  not  your  children  to  wrath:  but  bring 
them  up  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord.  .  .  .  Put  on  the  whole 
armour  of  God,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against  the  wiles  of  the 
devil.  (Ephesians  6:1-3;  11.) 

This  great  welfare  program  of  ours  is  calculated  to  bring  father 
and  son,  and  son  and  father  into  that  close  relationship  and  com- 
munion that  Paul  would  have  had  exist  in  the  Church  his  day.  And 
it  is  just  as  essential  to  us  today  that  we  should  do  it.  I  want  to 
say  that  tied  in  with  that  great  principle  is  the  great  eternal  principle 
of  free  agency  that  all  of  us  prize  so  highly.  We  had  to  have  our 
free  agency  in  the  councils  in  heaven,  and  through  the  use  of  that 
free  agency  we  chose  to  come  here  to  work  out  our  temporal  salva- 
tion and  through  our  obedience  to  the  laws  and  commandments  of 
God  to  become  literally  his  sons  and  his  daughters. 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pirtt  DaV 

Value  of  Free  Agency 

Are  we  going  to  lose  that  free  agency  today  while  we  are.here 
in  this  mortal  existence  earning  that  eternal  salvation  for  which 
we  were  placed  here  upon  this  earth?  Are  we  going  to  sacrifice  our 
chances  to  retain  our  own  free  agency  for  anything  that  the  world 
has  to  offer?  All  we  have  to  do  is  just  to  examine  any  movement 
that  may  be  brought  into  our  midst  whether  it  be  social  or  political 
or  what  not,  and  if  it  has  the  earmarks  of  an  attempt  to  deprive  us 
in  the  slightest  respect  of  our  free  agency,  we  should  avoid  it  as  we 
would  avoid  immorality  or  anything  else  that  is  vicious.  I  am  sure 
that  free  agency  is  as  necessary  for  our  eternal  salvation  as  is  our 
virtue.  And  just  as  we  guard  our  virtue  with  our  lives,  so  should 
we  guard  our  free  agency. 

It  has  been  my  experience,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  ex- 
tent that  I  have  had  experience  in  this  mortal  sphere,  that  wherever 
I  permit  anyone  to  perform  any  of  the  functions  which  the  Lord  ex- 
pected I  should  perform  for  myself,  that  to  the  extent  I  do  this,  I  be-, 
come  that  other  man's  slave.  And  I  tell  you  if  we  were  ever  to  get 
in  this  Church  in  the  position  where  we  were  relying  upon  some  out- 
side source  for  our  finances,  for  our  sustenance,  just  so  sure  would 
that  outside  force  undertake  to  dictate  to  us  what  we  should  do. 
Those  of  us  who  can  read  only  need  to  read  what  has  passed  in 
history.  Whenever  there  has  been  any  influence  or  any  powers  which 
have  undertaken  to  control  the  welfare  of  mankind  to  the  extent  that 
they  have  contributed  to  their  support,  they  dominated  them  in  their 
lives.  There  isn't  a  social  order  on  earth  today  but  what  if  we  were 
to  follow  it  long  enough  and  far  enough  would  rob  us  of  our  free 
agency,  and  I  tell  you  I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  today  for 
the  knowledge  and  the  conviction  that  I  have  within  me  that  there 
is  only  one  source  in  this  Church  from  which  you  and  I  as  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints  should  receive  any  assistance  in  time  of  need, 
and  that's  the  way  the  Lord  has  revealed. 

Let  us  look  carefully  into  every  movement  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  today  that  undertakes  to  bind  the  hands  of  men;  that  under- 
takes to  deprive  them  of  their  own  free  agency  in  life  and  prevents 
them  from  deciding  every  moment  of  their  life  whether  they'll  go  to 
the  right  or  to  the  left. 

Support  of  Welfare  Program 

This  great  welfare  program  of  ours  is  something  that  we  should 
love  and  we  should  cherish,  because  bound  up  with  that  is  a  prin- 
ciple which  will  establish  ourselves  upon  the  face  of  this  earth  so 
that  we  will  be  free  men  and  free  women  as  long  as  we  follow  the 
dictates  of  our  conscience  and  the  counsel  and  advice  that  come 
from  our  Heavenly  Father  through  his  servants.  And  I  hope  and 
pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will  not  let  eleven  and  a 
half  years  go  by  again  without  taking  more  seriously  the  counsel  and 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


47 


advice  that  come  constantly  from  our  leaders  to  put  our  houses  in 
order  and  let  our  sons  and  daughters  take  care  of  their  mothers  and 
fathers.  Let  us  bring  into  the  families  of  which  Brother  Benson  so 
beautifully  spoke  this  morning,  that  love  and  affection  and  that  de- 
votion which  will  not  permit  outside  interests  to  come  in  and  per- 
form any  of  the  family  functions,  whether  they  be  temporal  or  spirit- 
ual. And  there  isn't  a  son  or  daughter  in  Israel  who  will  not  be 
blessed  with  the  abundance  of  which  we  have  spoken  here  this  after- 
noon if  he  will  but  contribute  of  that  which  the  Lord  has  given  him 
to  the  maintenance  of  less  fortunate  members  of  his  family.  And  I 
promise  you  that  there  wouldn't  be  a  family  in  this  Church,  if  we 
would  live  up  to  this  principle,  but  what  in  and  of  itself  without  as- 
sistance from  any  outside  source,  would  be  self-sustaining. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  become  such,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

This  is  the  first  privilege  I  have  had  for  many  years  to  attend 
all  the  sessions  of  a  general  conference.  I  believe  about  the  last 
time  I  was  able  to  attend  all  the  sessions  was  when  I  sat  on  the  stair- 
way which  used  to  lead  from  this  stand  down  to  the  lower  rooms. 
It  has  been  a  long  time  since  that  stairway  existed.  However,  I 
appreciate  the  privilege  of  attendinq  this  conference  and  hope  the 
faith  and  prayers  of  you  people  will  be  in  my  behalf  while  I  hold 
this  position. 

Reason  for  Progress 

I  am  reminded — and  it  has  already  been  mentioned  today — that 
this  is  our  centennial  year,  and  we  have  been  looking  back  over  the 
past  and  had  called  to  our  attention  in  many  ways  the  growth  and 
development  and  achievements  over  the  years.  Wherever  the  Church 
has  been,  there  has  been  outstanding  progress.  Surely  this  Church 
has  been  blessed  with  something  above  all  others.  What  blessing 
could  it  be?  What  is  the  motivating  power  behind  the  success  of 
this  people?  What  is  it  that  carried  the  pioneers  through  all  their 
hardships,  their  trials  and  persecutions,  privations,  their  loss  of  all 
which  the  world  holds  dear?  What  gave  them  the  courage  to  fol- 
low their  leaders  across  a  vast  and  dangerous  wilderness  and  settle 
in  the  most  barren  place  of  all?  What  made  them  sacrifice  the  little 
thev  had  to  build  temples  and  this  tabernacle  in  which  we  worship 
God?  What  made  the  men  go  out  as  missionaries  and  leave  their 
families  in  dire  straits?    What  made  the  women  willing  to  send 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Phst  Day 

their  men  and  assume  the  great  burden  of  bearing,  rearing,  and 
supporting  their  families  alone?    What  is  this  great  power? 

The  Power  of  Testimony 

There  is  no  blessing  on  the  earth  to  be  more  desired  than  a 
testimony  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that  this 
gospel  is  the  divine  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  With  this  sure  knowl- 
edge in  our  hearts  it  gives  a  meaning  and  a  purpose  to  our  lives 
which  guide  even  our  smallest  actions  and  give  us  courage  to  endure 
all  things  in  the  hope  for  the  future.  This  great  power  and  blessing 
is  a  true  and  living  testimony  which  is  worth  any  sacrifice  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  and  God  has  promised  to  bless  those 
who  do  his  will. 

Brigham  Young  said: 

If  all  the  talent,  fact,  wisdom,  and  refinements  of  the  world  had 
been  sent  to  me  with  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  had  declared  in  the  most 
exalted  earthly  eloquence  the  truth  of  it,  undertaking  to  prove  it  by 
learning  and  worldly  wisdom,  they  would  have  been  to  me  Lke  the 
smoke  that  rises  only  to  vanish  away.  But  when  I  saw  a  man  without 
eloquence,  or  talents  for  public  speaking  who  could  only  say,  "I  know 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,"  the  Holy  Ghost  proceeding 
from  that  individual  illuminated  my  understanding,  and  light,  glory  and 
immortality  were  before  me.  I  was  encircled  by  them,  filled  with  them, 
and  I  knew  for  myself  that  the  testimony  was  true.  (Golden  Nuggets  of 
Thought,  Ezra  Marler,  p.  35.) 

That  is  the  kind  of  testimony  that  members  of  this  Church  have. 
That  is  the  kind  of  testimony  that  gives  us  the  power  and  the  courage 
to  go  forward  and  accomplish  the  things  which  have  been  done  in 
the  past  and  which  helps  us  today,  a  gift  from  God  through  the 
Holy  Ghost,  a  burning  knowledge  within.  I  thank  God  for  those 
testimonies  which  have  brought  us  many  blessings  and  privileges. 
I  thank  God  for  the  testimonies  of  the  great  souls,  living  and  dead, 
who  have  succeeded  these  early  members.  All  down  through  Church 
history  we  have  the  lives  and  the  examples  of  our  leaders  to  inspire 
us  to  greater  effort. 

And  so  it  is  today.  A  nobler  group  of  men  cannot  be  found 
on  earth  because  they  have  the  priesthood  of  God  and  a  testimony 
to  guide  them.  Nor  is  this  blessing  confined  to  the  leaders  of  the 
Church.  I  am  constantly  inspired  by  the  beautiful  spirit,  the  fer- 
vent testimony,  the  great  desire  to  accomplish  God's  will  in  those 
whom  I  meet  from  day  to  day.  They  truly  have  a  testimony  as  great 
as  the  pioneers. 

I  feel  very  humble  and  very  grateful  when  I  think  of  all  the 
splendid  people  working  for  God  throughout  this  Church.  We 
cannot  help  but  progress  if  we  keep  these  testimonies,  and  I  thank  all 
you  good  people  for  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf,  and  I  pray 
that  I  may  always  be  remembered  in  your  prayers,  for  I  cannot  do  the 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


49 


work  assigned  to  me  without  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  your 
faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf. 

I  thank  God  for  the  testimony  which  burns  within  my  soul,  that 
I  know  this  is  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  of  God,  and  the  others 
who  have  succeeded  him  to  our  present  prophet  and  President, 
George  Albert  Smith,  are  called  of  God.  I  bear  you  this  testimony 
and  by  virtue  of  my  office  and  calling  pronounce  the  blessings  of 
God  upon  you,  his  people,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  thz  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  morning  President  Smith  sketched  for  us  a  little  of  the  his- 
tory of  our  people  over  a  hundred  years.  He  could  but  sketch  it,  of 
course,  but  in  the  outline  he  drew,  he  was  able  to  stimulate  thinking 
within  us  that  induced  each  one  of  us  to  fill  in  the  outline  from  his 
own  store  of  knowledge.  The  thought  stimulated  in  me  as  I  listened 
was  in  the  form  of  a  question.  What  started  it  all?  What  were 
the  beginnings  of  it? 

The  Beginnings 

He  called  our  attention  to  a  monument  that  is  building  in  these 
grounds  in  honor  of  the  handcart  companies  who  started  out  from 
Iowa  City  on  their  journey  to  Salt  Lake.  I  remember  that  my  father, 
then  a  youth  of  nineteen,  put  all  his  earthly  possessions  on  one  of 
those  little  carts  and  pulled  it  or  pushed  it  all  the  way  to  this  city. 

But  Iowa  City  was  not  the  beginning.  From  Wales  he  had  come 
there.  And  the  beginning  was  not  in  Wales.  The  beginning  was 
not  in  Nauvoo  where  the  people  began  their  march  across  this  con- 
tinent. Behind  that  was  an  event  in  the  state  of  New  York  where 
a  boy  knelt  down  to  pray  and  where,  in  answer  to  that  prayer,  the 
God  of  heaven  came  bringing  with  him  one  whom  he  introduced 
as  his  Son,  and  whom  he  bade  the  praying  boy  to  hear. 

Neither  was  that  the  beginning.  We  should  have  to  go  back  cen- 
turies to  find  that,  eighteen  of  them  at  least,  to  the  day  when  the  star 
which  guided  the  wise  men  stood  over  the  manqer,  and  the  heavenly 
chorus  sang,  "Glory  to  God  in  the  highest."  That  had  antecedents, 
too,  but  I  shall  have  no  time  to  go  back  into  them.  I  choose,  rather,  to 
begin  with  that  event.  That  was  the  earthly  beginning,  if  I  may  use 
that  phrase,  of  the  migration  of  our  forebears  to  this  land.  That 
was  when  the  Word  was  made  flesh  and  came  to  dwell  among  men, 
and  out  of  that  circumstance  derives  the  power  and  authority,  the 
teaching,  the  inspiration  that  have  moved  all  else  to  this  hour. 

Mission  of  the  Savior 

The  Babe  of  Bethlehem  entered  upon  his  great  mission  alone. 
He  went  alone  to  be  baptized  of  John.    Alone  he  went  from  there 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  First  Day 

into  the  wilderness  where  he  fought  his  great  spiritual  battle  and 
emerged  triumphant  over  all  blandishing  allurements  to  pride,  am- 
bition, self-glorification,  and  worldly  renown,  and  devoted  himself 
to  the  mission  to  which  the  Father  had  consecrated  him.  Alone  he 
retraced  his  steps,  and  going  singly  to  one,  and  yet  another,  he  bade 
each  to  follow  him,  until  he  had  chosen  twelve — humble  men,  all! 
And  these  he  took  under  his  tuition  and  taught  them  and  trained 
them  so  that  they  might  be  able  to  carry  on  when  he  himself  should 
be  gone.  He  recognized  that  his  message  was  a  universal  message, 
that  it  was  a  permanent  message,  not  designed  for  the  time  of  his 
earthly  existence  only,  but  something  to  be  carried  on  after  he  him- 
self should  be  gone.  And  these  men  he  trained  to  be  his  ambassadors. 
With  them  alone  he  set  out  to  transform  the  world,  and,  miracle  of 
miracles,  he  did  it — the  most  astounding  miracle  that  ever  was  per- 
formed. 

He  made  no  revolutionary  conquest.  That  was  not  the  way  of 
his  procedure.  He  recognized  that  great  principle  of  which  Elder 
[Henry  D.]  Movie  has  so  eloquently  spoken,  the  right  of  each  person 
to  make  free  choice  and  decide  for  himself,  the  only  principle  upon 
which  man  can  ever  unfold  his  powers  and  grow  into  the  image  of 
God.  He  was  not  popular:  he  was  maligned,  misrepresented,  his 
motives  misstated,  and  finally,  betrayed  and  put  to  death.  But  the 
ideal  he  had  loosed  upon  the  world  did  not  die.  And  here  these  dis- 
ciples whom  he  had  chosen,  trained,  and  taught,  men  of  human 
frailty,  had  to  pick  up  and  carry  on.  These  disciples  of  his,  humble 
and  weak  though  they  were  and  full  of  mortal  imperfections,  carried 
on  triumphantly. 

They  were  not  any  more  popular  than  he  had  been.  The  doc- 
trines coming  from  them  were  no  more  palatable  than  they  had  been 
coming  from  the  Master  himself,  but  he  had  given  them  one  of  the 
most  sobering  assignments  ever  given  to  man.  He  had  already 
triumphed  over  death.  And  his  last  visit  with  them,  just  before  his 
taking  his  final  earthly  leave  of  his  disciples,  he  declared: 

All  power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth.  (Matt.  28:18.) 

Commission  to  Disciples 

That  is  a  pronouncement  which  for  boldness  and  assurance  has 
never  been  equaled,  I  believe  in  all  the  world's  history.  It  was  a 
fitting  preface  to  the  great  calling  then  delivered  over  to  them.  He 
commissioned  them, 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost:  Teaching  them  to 
observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you.  {Ibid.,  19,  20.) 

And  he  authorized  them  to  make  an  equally  great  promise. 

He  that  believeth  .  .  .  shall  be  saved.  (Mark  16:16.) 

It  is  true  that  certain  other  things  were  required  to  be  done,  but 
they  were  incidents  of  belief.    Everybody  who  believed,  really  and 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


51 


truly  believed,  with  conviction  in  his  soul,  would  do  those  other 
things.  As  the  root  of  the  whole  matter  was  the  injunction  to  believe. 

Miraculous  Growth  of  Early  Church 

It  was  not  a  sudden  happening.  It  required  about  three  hundred 
years,  a  period  three  times  as  long  as  that  which  has  elapsed  since  the 
coming  of  our  pioneers  to  this  city,  but  by  the  end  of  that  time,  the 
great  Roman  Empire  which  had  been  the  persecutor  of  the  disciples, 
which  had  thrown  them  to  the  beasts  in  the  Roman  circus,  with 
a  determination  to  stamp  them  out,  and  to  destroy  them  and  all  their 
followers — by  the  end  of  that  period  of  three  hundred  years — the 
majority  of  the  people  of  that  same  empire  were  professed  wor- 
shipers of  the  Son  of  God. 

Talk  about  miracles!  No  greater  miracle  has  ever  been  per- 
formed, and  no  greater  triumph  of  fidelity  is  recorded  in  history. 

Suppose  those  disciples  had  been  recreant  to  their  trust.  Sup- 
pose they  had  failed.  Then  the  message  could  not  have  been  per- 
petuated, and  this  world  might  have  been  denied  the  inestimable 
blessings  that  flow  from  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  of  men.  If  you 
want  to  know  how  much  we  should  have  missed  if  that  teaching 
had  not  been  preserved  through  the  fidelity  of  these  men,  just  try  to 
picture  to  yourselves  what  we  should  have  to  blot  out  from  our  lives 
if  we  took  away  all  the  teachings  of  the  Master. 

Influence  of  Christian  Nations 

And  those  disciples  had  to  start  out  from  the  bottom.  They  had 
to  get  the  people  to  accept  Jesus.  There  was  no  use  trying  to  ask 
people  to  accept  his  doctrines  or  to  admonish  them  to  live  them  unless 
first  they  could  convert  the  people  to  believe  in  him.  Their  first  job 
was  to  persuade  men  to  accept  Jesus  as  the  Christ.  And,  as  I  said 
a  moment  ago,  with  the  lapse  of  three  hundred  years,  the  majority 
of  the  people  of  the  Roman  Empire  itself  had  accepted  the  word, 
and  that  nation,  or  that  empire,  together  with  all  the  nations 
that  sprang  out  of  its  breaking  up,  and  the  nations  of  the  occi- 
dental world  that  have  grown  up  since  then,  have  delighted  to 
call  themselves  Christian  nations  in  honor  of  the  name  of  the  crucified 
Son  of  God.  The  gauge  of  progress  among  those  nations  has  been 
that  degree  in  which  they  have  fostered  and  preserved  the  principles 
of  freedom,  the  rights  of  the  individual  man:  Those  nations,  the 
Christian  nations  of  the  world,  have,  since  their  forming,  stood  out 
as  the  commanding  nations  among  all  the  peoples  of  this  earth.  There 
have  been  no  other  nations  with  comparable  progress  and  power  and 
influence  to  that  wielded  by  the  Christian  nations.  There  has  never 
been  in  all  history  any  domination  of  nations  and  their  history  com- 
parable to  that  domination  of  the  Christian  nations  which  Jesus  of 
Nazareth,  though  crucified,  exercised  over  them.  In  all  the  annals 
of  this  world  there  is  no  parallel  to  that  power  and  influence  over  the 
lives  of  nations  and  of  men. 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  Pirst  Da? 

Breakdown  of  Christian  Standards 

That  being  the  case,  we  might  naturally  have  supposed  or  as- 
sumed— with  the  great  unmeasured  blessings  that  have  come  to 
those  nations — that  they  would  have  been  true  to  their  heritage, 
that  they  would  have  continued  in  reverent  regard  of  the  name  of 
him  from  whom  the  activating  teachings  came.  Unhappily,  that 
seems  to  be  a  presumption  that  we  are  not  permitted  to  indulge. 
There  has  come  over  this  earth  now  a  disheartening  breakdown  of 
all  the  Christian  standards.  Skepticism,  self-sufficiency,  atheism,  a 
denial  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  have  supplanted  belief, 
and  lapses  from  the  moral  standards  are  but  the  natural  result  of 
the  breaking  down  of  that  faith. 

There  is  one  thing  of  which  we  may  be  sure  and  that  is  that 
the  teachings  of  the  gospel,  the  gospel  of  the  twentieth  century,  if  you 
please,  are  the  same  as  the  teaching  which  was  given  in  the  first 
century.  The  gospel  does  not  change,  though  its  manner  of  pre- 
sentation and  technique  may.  Fundamentally,  its  basic  principles 
do  not  alter.  If  the  world  had  been  true,  if  the  Christian  nations  had 
remained  firm  in  their  faith,  we  could  not  have  had  the  two  last 
great  wars  which  broke  out  right  in  the  heart  of  Christendom.  It 
comes  from  a  teaching  that  there  is  no  divinity  whom  one  must  revere; 
that  all  creeds  are  alike,  as  is  now  taught,  and  that  to  be  cosmo- 
politan we  have  to  accept  them  all  and  put  all  of  them  on  the  same 
plane  of  merit. 

Suggestion  of  Learned  Doctor 

I  have  here  in  my  hand  a  clipping  which  I  took  recently  from 
the  daily  press  in  which  a  learned  doctor,  addressing  a  professedly 
Christian  body  of  worshipers,  and  speaking  obviously  in  a  manner 
congenial  to  their  spirits,  accused  Chrisianity  of  spiritual  arrogance 
and  suggested  that  it  abandon  its  claim  to  a  monopoly  of  the  way 
to  salvation.    Here  are  some  of  his  exact  words  as  quoted: 

Christianity  has  been  guilty  of  spiritual  arrogance  on  a  worldwide 
scale,  labeling  all  other  religions  false  and  asserting  that  only  when  all 
mankind  accepts  the  one  true  religion  will  there  be  any  hope  for 
worldwide  co-operation  and  peace.  That  amounts  to  spiritual  imperialism 
and  is  as  out-of-date  in  our  world  today  as  any  form  of  imperialism. 

He  said: 

Only  by  recognizing  the  basic  human  equality  of  all  religions  is  it 
possible  to  reach  a  world  fellowship  of  faith  inspiring  man  in  his  efforts 
to  create  a  decent  kind  of  world  society. 

The  worthy  doctor  agrees  with  neither  Jesus  nor  history. 
Religion  Is  God-Revealed 

What  becomes  of  God  and  Christ  in  a  religion  like  that?  That 
kind  of  declaration  brings  us  face  to  face  with  this  question.  What 
is  religion  anyhow?    Is  it  something  that  man  makes  for  his  own 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  53 


convenience,  subject  to  change  with  all  the  alterations  in  the  moods 
of  the  times,  or  is  it  something  God-revealed,  something  that  stands 
eternally  true,  a  basis  for  conduct  and  a  guide  to  our  lives? 

When  you  put  God  out,  then  atheism,  skepticism,  cynicism,  all 
flock  in;  and  when  they  flock  in,  their  natural  incidentals,  the  break- 
ing down  of  standards  by  which  men  have  lived  enter  in,  and  we  have 
the  turmoil  and  confusion  and  degradation  that  characterize  this 
world  today. 

The  ideal  of  the  perfect  life  is  no  chimerical  mirage  because 
Jesus  came  and  exemplified  the  perfect  life.  Through  observance 
of  the  principles  by  which  his  life  was  ordered,  man,  too,  may  grow 
to  perfection.  There  is  no  higher  call  to  duty  today  than  that  the 
Church  should  teach  faith  in  him  and  preserve  it  in  the  hearts  of 
men.  Without  arrogance  or  boasting  but  in  toleration  and  humility 
it  must  be  true  to  its  trust  by  teaching  what  Jesus  taught:  that  there 
is  one  faith,  one  Lord  and  one  baptism  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 

May  God  give  us  the  power  for  the  need,  I  pray  in  his  name. 
Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  J.  Clark,  Jr: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing  to  close: 
"Praise  Ye  The  Father" — (Gounod). 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Twayne  Austin 
of  the  West  Pocatello  Stake,  Pocatello,  Idaho,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning, 
Saturday,  October  4.  The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broad- 
cast over  the  same  stations  that  are  broadcasting  today. 

The  Choir  music  for  this  session  and  the  morning  session,  as 
has  been  repeatedly  announced,  was  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  of  the  Central  Utah  Region.  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  has  conducted  the  Choir.  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  has  been 
the  organist. 

We  should  like  to  extend  to  Sister  Madsen  and  the  Choir  our 
deep  appreciation  and  our  sincere  thanks  for  the  excellence  of  the 
music  which  they  have  rendered  to  us.  I  think  Sister  Madsen  is 
entitled  to  particular  reference.  She  has  trained,  as  I  understand  it, 
two  great  choirs  extending  over  a  period  of  many  weeks,  and  the 
result  of  her  efforts  is  shown  by  the  splendid  singing  we  have  had 
today  and  which  was  incident  to  the  Relief  Society  Conference  and 
their  concert.  We  thank  you  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  Sister 
Madsen  and  Brother  Asper  for  your  services. 

Tomorrow  morning  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not 
later  than  ten  minutes  before  the  time  of  beginning. 

Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers:  "Praise  Ye  The 
Father." 

President  Twayne  Austin  of  the  West  Pocatello  Stake  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday,  October  4,  at  10:00  a.m. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3      ■  First  Da-" 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  4,  at  10:00 

a.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided.  At 
the  President's  request,  President  David  O.  McKay,  second  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services  of  this  session. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

It  is  worth  a  trip  from  some  other  part  of  the  world  to  come  into 
a  house  and  see  as  many  people  smiling  as  there  are  this  morning. 
Everybody  looks  happy.  It  is  wonderful  to  be  in  the  house  of  the 
Lord  again  today.  Outside  are  glorious  sunshine  and  flowers  and 
inside  are  the  influences  that  come  from  our  Heavenly  Father. 

President  McKay  will  conduct  the  services  this  morning. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  118th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  pre- 
siding over  the  European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following 
stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and 
over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

The  Choir  singing  during  today's  sessions  will  be  by  members 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Choir  singing: 

"I  Think  When  I  Read  That  Sweet  Story  of  Old"— (Parks) 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Dale  H.  Peter- 
son of  the  North  Sevier  Stake.  Salina,  Utah. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "I  Think  When  I  Read  That 
Sweet  Story  Of  Old." 

Elder  Dale  H.  Peterson,  President  of  the  North  Sevier  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  "In  My  Father's  House  Are  Many  Mansions." 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  55 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren,  sisters,  and  friends.  I  feel  this  a  tremen- 
dous responsibility,  undertaking  to  lead  in  intelligent,  profitable 
thought,  a  congregation  of  thousands  of  intelligent  people,  present 
and  on  the  air,  members  and  non-members  of  the  Church,  and  I 
sincerely  hope  that  what  I  shall  say  will  be  of  some  interest  and 
profit. 

I  suppose  that  most  persons  born  into  this  world  and  living  toi 
reach  maturity,  at  some  time  in  their  lives,  entertain  some  such 
thoughts  as  these:  where  did  I  come  from,  why  am  I  here,  where 
am  I  going  when  I  leave  this  sphere  of  action,  and  what  effect  will 
my  life's  actions  here,  have  upon  my  future  life? 

Gospel  Answers  Important  Questions 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  we  have  received  it  by  divine 
revelation,  makes  satisfactory  answer  to  these  and  many  other 
important  questions  which  arise  in  the  mind  from  time  to  time. 
A  like  statement  cannot  be  made  in  truth  of  any  other  religious 
organization.  It  teaches  us  that  we  lived  as  intelligent  beings  in 
the  spirit  before  coming  to  this  earth,  that  we  are  the  spirit- 
born  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  brothers  and  sisters  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  he  being  the  first-born  in  the  spirit,  and  the  only  be- 
gotten of  the  Father  in  the  flesh.  Coming  to  this  earth  is  an  im- 
portant part  of  the  plan  instituted  in  the  councils  of  heaven  for 
man's  eternal  progression  toward  the  goal  of  our  existence,  which 
is  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  and  presence  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son  forever. 

It  is  here  we  are  to  make  every  preparation  necessary  for  the 
life  to  come.  There  are  certain  prescribed  conditions  that  must  be 
complied  with.  There  are  principles  to  be  accepted,  ordinances 
to  be  received,  commandments  to  be  kept,  laws  to  be  obeyed,  sacri- 
fices to  be  made,  service  to  be  rendered,  family  relationships  to  be 
formed,  and  we  are  to  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth 
from  the  mouth  of  God.  We  are  to  love  the  Lord,  our  God,  with 
all  our  hearts  and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves.  We  are  even  to 
love  our  enemies,  to  bless  them  that  curse  us,  do  good  to  them 
that  hate  us  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  us,  and 
persecute  us,  following  the  example  of  Jesus  who,  when  being 
persecuted  to  the  death,  prayed  to  the  Father  to  forgive  his  perse- 
cutors. This  represents  the  true  spirit  of  Christ  which  should 
motivate  all  our  life's  actions.  We  should  strive  to  be  in  the  image 
of  God  in  principle  and  in  conduct  as  well  as  in  form.  We  should 
be  orthodox  in  our  thinking,  our  understanding,  our  teachings,  and 
in  our  living. 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  ad- 


» 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

monition  of  Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have 
endured  many  things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  th.ngs.  If  there 
is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things.   (Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith.) 

Obedience  Brings  Order  and  Beauty 

The  laws  of  the  gospel  are  the  laws  of  God  and  are  as  perfect 
in  their  sphere  as  are  the  laws  governing  the  universe  and  all  nature. 
They  originated  from  the  same  source,  and  when  obeyed  by  man, 
they  produce  order  and  beauty.  Man  only  of  all  of  God's  crea- 
tions is  disobedient  to  his  laws. 

The  gospel  law  is  that  by  which  our  Savior  lived,  and  which 
made  him  what  he  was  in  life,  and  what  he  now  is,  enthroned  in 
glory  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  the  Father,  in  his  celestial 
kingdom. 

The  same  gospel  laws  are  intended  to  make  us  like  the  Savior 
and  to  save  us  with  him  in  our  Father's  kingdom.  He  has  given 
us  our  agency  and  power  to  overcome  and  live  the  law. 

James  Allen,  author  of  the  book  As  A  Man  Thinketh  expresses 
therein  this  religious  thought: 

As  a  being  of  power,  intelligence,  and  love,  and  the  Lord  of  his  own 
thoughts,  man  holds  the  key  to  every  situation,  and  contains  within  him- 
self that  transforming,  regenerating  agency,  by  which  he  may  make 
himself  what  he  wills. 

The  Influence  of  Religion 

My  religious  education  has  been  and  is  such,  that  if  I  do  the 
things  that  I  know  I  should  do,  and  leave  undone  the  things  I  know 
I  should  not  do,  my  salvation,  the  goal  of  my  existence,  will  be 
secure.  My  religion  encourages  me  in  my  efforts  so  to  do.  It  has 
both  a  stimulating  and  a  restraining  influence  upon  my  life,  en- 
couraging and  stimulating  me  to  good  deeds,  and  restraining  me 
from  wrongdoing. 

I  am  a  better  and  happier  man  because  of  my  religion  and  its 
influence  upon  my  life.  I  would  have  been  a  better  and  happier 
man  than  I  am,  had  I  lived  more  in  accord  with  the  precepts  of  my 
religion,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Someone  has  said  that  experience  is  a  dear  school  but  tHat 
fools  will  learn  in  no  other. 

This  suggests  that  a  wise  person  will  learn  and  profit  by  the 
experience  of  others. 

Punishment  of  the  Wicked 

We  have  many  object  lessons  given  us  in  the  scriptures  from 
which  to  profit.  In  the  council  in  heaven,  before  the  world  was, 
two  courses  were  placed  before  us;  that  proposed  by  the  Firstborn, 
and  the  other  by  Lucifer;  the  one  leading  unto  everlasting  life,  the 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  57 


other  to  everlasting  disappointment.  We  had  definitely  decided 
before  coming  to  earth  which  course  to  follow. 

The  Negro  race  have  been  forbidden  the  priesthood,  and  the 
higher  temple  blessings,  presumably  because  of  their  not  having 
been  valiant  while  in  the  spirit.  It  does  not  pay  to  be  anything 
but  valiant. 

Through  John  the  Revelator,  the  Lord  said  to  the  Laodiceans: 

I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  art  neither  cold  nor  hot:  I  would  thou 
wert  cold  or  hot.  So  then  because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and  neither  cold 
nor  hot,  I  will  spue  thee  out  of  my  mouth.  (Rev.  3:15,  16.) 

It  is  not  profitable  that  we  be  even  lukewarm. 

We  know  the  curse  which  befell  Laman  and  Lemuel  and 
their  descendants,  the  Lamanites,  as  a  result  of  their  disobedience, 
rebelliousness,  and  wickedness. 

We  know  the  curse  that  befell  the  Jews  because  they  rejected 
their  Lord,  the  Savior.  They  have  been  a  hiss  and  a  byword 
among  all  nations,  and  that  tells  but  a  small  part  of  their  unfortu- 
nate condition. 

The  history  of  the  antediluvians  furnishes  us  with  an  impres- 
sive example  of  the  serious  consequences  of  sin  and  rejecting  the 
gospel. 

Noah  preached  to  that  people  120  years.  They  rejected  the 
prophet  and  his  message  and  became  a  very  wicked  people  and 
morally  corrupt. 

The  penalty  inflicted  upon  them  was,  in  part,  that  of  drown- 
ing by  a  flood  that  covered  the  whole  earth.  The  death  penalty 
tells  but  a  small  part  of  the  story  of  what  befell  them  on  account  of 
their  wickedness.  They  were  confined  in  a  spirit  prison  for,  ac- 
cording to  the  Bible  chronology,  more  than  2,300  years.  The  na- 
ture of  this  imprisonment  is  explained  by  the  Prophet  Alma  as 
follows: 

Now  this  is  the  state  of  the  souls  of  the  wicked,  yea,  in  darkness, 
and  a  state  of  awful,  fearful  looking  for  the  fiery  indignation  of  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  them;  thus  they  remain  in  this  state,  as  well  as  the  righteous 
in  paradise,  until  the  time  of  their  resurrection.  (Alma  40:14.) 

Gospel  Preached  to  Spirits  in  Prison 

This  period  of  2,300  years  is  between  the  time  of  the  flood  and 
the  death  of  the  Savior,  when  he  went  and  visited  them. 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust, 
that  he  might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but  quick- 
ened by  the  Spirit:  By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits 
in  prison;  Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the  longsuffering 
of  God  waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  a  preparing,  where- 
in few,  that  is,  eight  souls  were  saved  by  water.  (I  Peter  3:18-20.) 

How  much  longer  they  were  imprisoned  after  Christ's  visita- 
tion and  resurrection  we  do  not  know.    But  it  is  revealed  to  us 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

that  should  they  accept  the  gospel  or  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  when 
preached  to  them,  in  the  spirit,  they  could  attain  only  to  the  ter- 
restrial kingdom. 

And  again,  we  saw  the  terrestrial  world,  and  behold  and  lo,  these 
are  they  who  are  of  the  terrestrial,  whose  glory  differs  from  that  of  the 
church  of  the  Firstborn  who  have  received  the  fulness  of  the  Father, 
even  as  that  of  the  moon  differs  from  the  sun  in  the  firmament.  Behold, 
these  are  they  who  died  without  law;  also  they  who  are  the  spirits  of 
men  kept  in  prison,  whom  the  Son  visited,  and  preached  the  gospel  unto 
them,  that  they  might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh;  Who  re- 
ceived not  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  flesh,  but  afterwards  received  it. 
(D.  6  C.  76:71-74.  Italics  author's.) 

The  cities  of  the  plains,  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  with  their  in- 
habitants, were  destroyed  by  fire  from  heaven,  because  of  their 
wickedness.  They  also  would  be  shut  up  in  a  spirit  prison  and 
be  denied  the  blessings  of  the  celestial  kingdom,  even  though  they 
should  accept  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  spirit. 

It  is  reasonable  to  believe  that  other  equally  disobedient, 
wicked  people,  though  they  may  escape  the  death  penalty,  would 
be  confined  in  a  spirit  prison  after  their  death  and  be  rejected  from 
the  celestial  kingdom,  those  of  this  day,  as  well  as  those  of  former 
days. 

The  kingdom  of  God  has  been  established  again  on  the  earth, 
and  the  gospel  in  its  fulness  has  been  restored,  in  fulfilment  of  an- 
cient prophecies,  but  people  of  today  are  not  prepared,  in  large 
numbers,  to  receive  it,  although  the  gospel  and  the  kingdom  of  this 
dispensation  have  all  the  earmarks  of  the  original. 

Second  Coming  of  the  Savior 

The  coming  event  of  great  importance,  toward  which  the  at- 
tention of  the  world  is  directed  by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  is 
the  second  and  glorious  coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  for  whose 
coming  all  good  Christians  are  anxiously  awaiting,  for  at  that  day 
the  righteous  dead  shall  come  forth,  and  the  righteous  living  shall 
be  changed  or  quickened,  and  together  they  will  be  caught  up  to 
meet  the  Savior  and  his  holy  angels  in  the  clouds  of  heaven.  Satan 
will  be  bound  for  one  thousand  years,  and  peace  shall  prevail  in 
the  earth. 

Signs  of  the  Lord's  coming  are  seen  in  the  wars  and  rumors 
of  wars,  famine,  pestilence,  the  seas  heaving  themselves  beyond 
•their  bounds,  infidelity,  apostasy,  and  wickedness  of  every  con- 
ceivable character. 

They  have  transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the  ordinances,  and 
broken  the  everlasting  covenant,  and  sin  and  wickedness  prevail 
throughout  the  earth. 

There  are  two  great  unseen  powers  operating  upon  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  today,  the  power  of  God  and 
the  power  of  Lucifer,  or  Satan,  each  striving  for  the  souls  of  men; 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


59 


the  one  to  save,  and  the  other  to  destroy.  In  the  language  of  the 
scripture:  Choose  ye  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve.  Lest  we  be 
taken  off  guard,  and  be  found  unwittingly  serving  the  wrong 
master,  let  us  be  reminded  that 

...  all  things  which  are  good  cometh  of  God;  and  that  which  is 
evil  cometh  of  the  devil;  .  ,  .  (Moroni  7:12.) 

Testimony 

I  bear  unto  you,  my  brethren,  sisters,  and  friends,  a  faithful 
and  sincere  testimony  that  I  do  know  that  this,  the  work  in  which 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged,  is  the  work  of  God,  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which  had  its  inception  in  the 
councils  of  heaven  before  the  world  was.  In  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  and  eternal  life. 

We  invite  all  men  to  come  unto  God  and  be  saved  with  him 
in  his  kingdom,  by  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  made  effective  for  man's  salvation  through  the  atonement 
wrought  out  by  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  May  his  bless- 
ings attend  you  all,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  literally  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  I  believe  that  every  man  who  has  pre- 
sided over  it  as  a  prophet-president  has  been  the  Lord's  anointed 
and  has  held  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  and  that  these  keys  are  the 
keys  of  salvation  for  all  people.  And  I  believe  that  the  Lord  has 
decreed  for  this  dispensation  that  the  gospel  is  here  to  remain  until 
Christ  comes,  and  of  course  from  then  forever  after.  This  is  a  day 
when  the  kingdom  will  never  be  given  to  another  people,  but  when 
it  will  remain  with  the  Saints;  and  everyone  who  will  come  to 
Christ  and  live  his  laws  will  receive  peace  and  joy  and  comfort  in 
this  life  and  a  certain  hope  of  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 

Vision  Given  to  Joseph  Smith 

When  Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  Sacred  Grove  to  pray  in 
the  spring  of  1820,  having  been  exercised  by  religious  anxiety  and 
turmoil,  it  was  to  ask  which  of  all  the  churches  was  right  and  which 
one  he  should  join.  There  then  appeared  to  him  two  glorified, 
exalted,  resurrected  beings — God  the  Eternal  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son — who,  in  answer  to  Joseph's  question,  told  him  that 
he  should  join  none  of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong;  that  all  their 
creeds  were  an  abomination  in  his  sight;  that  those  professors  were 
all  corrupt;  that: 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Secomf  Da„ 

.  .  .  they  draw  near  unto  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far 
from  me;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men,  having  a 
form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.  ( Pearl  of  Great  Price 
Writings  of  Joseph  Smith,  2:19.) 

Kingdom  Organized 

Thereafter,  pursuant  to  commandment  and  revelation  the  Proph- 
et and  others  organized  this  kingdom,  and  after  it  was  organized, 
the  Lord  by  revelation,  referred  to  it  as  the  only  true  and  living 
Church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  he  said  he 
was  well  pleased,  speaking  unto  the  Church  collectively  and  not 
individually. 

I  think  that  the  ancient  prophets  and  the  latter-day  prophets 
haVC  had  revealed  to  them,  by  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
that  this  kingdom  is  to  remain.  Enoch  saw  this  day  and  said  that 
a  people  would  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  that  a 
latter-day  Zion  would  be  built  up  to  be  joined  with  the  Zion  that 
he  had  established.  Daniel  saw  this  day.  He  revealed  and  in- 
terpreted the  dream  that  Nebuchadnezzar  had  received,  told  him 
that  he  had  seen  a  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  and 
that  in  the  days  of  certain  kings  would  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a 
kingdom  which  would  never  be  destroyed  and  which  would  never 
be  given  to  another  people,  but  which  should  stand  forever 

In  this  day  the  Lord  harked  back  to  that  figure  which  Daniel 
had  used  and  said  to  Joseph  Smith:  ^<*niei 

The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  committed  unto  man  on  the 
eearrth''  7  M™^  thenCeK  sl?a11  the  9«*Pel  roll  forth  unto  the  ends  o"  the 
TJn'r  U  fthe.st°ne  which  is  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands 
shall  roll  forth,  until  it  has  filled  the  whole  earth.  (D.  &  C.  65:2.) 

Valiance  to  the  Truth 
EverY  Person  in  this  Church  is  entitled  to  know  and  is  expected 

hinas°^r^the  reVe,latfiouns  ?f  the  Holy  Ghost  to  his  soul  thatPthese 
things  are  true;  and  if  he  knows  them,  then,  in  my  judgment  he 

hearken  to  the  counsel  of  the  living  oracles  and  put  his  house  in 
o   which  P^Tr  rmSdf        iK^ry  and  honor  and  salvation 

i  shoi^  i?tcnf     ige  '  Richards  has  just  sP°ken' 

Tavlor Z  rh il A  Y°Uf  statement  **ade  by  President  John 

iaylor,  the  third  man  to  preside  over  this  kingdom.    He  said: 

fe.il  IT  fHnS  bee"  alked  by  Brother  Brigham  whether  this  kinadom  will 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKlE 


61 


One  other  sentence  from  President  Taylor: 

There  is  one  thing  very  certain,  very  certain  indeed,  and  that  is, 
whatever  men  may  think,  and  however  they  may  plot  and  contrive, 
that  this  kingdom  will  never  be  given  into  the  hands  of  another  people. 
It  will  grow  and  spread  and  increase,  and  no  man  living  can  stop  its 
progress.  [Ibid.,  p.  214.) 

It  seems  to  me  that  if  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  and 
if  it  is  destined  to  stay  here  and  not  be  given  to  another  people,  then 
we  are  entitled  to  conclude  that  as  a  people,  as  a  Church,  we  will 
never  be  led  astray;  and,  that  as  individuals,  we  will  never  go  out 
of  the  course  of  righteousness  that  the  Lord  expects  us  to  be  in  as 
long  as  we  hearken  to  the  counsel  of  the  Presidency  and  the  Twelve 
who  head  the  kingdom. 

Keys  of  the  Kingdom 

Wilford  Woodruff  said  this: 

When  the  Lord  gave  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  the  keys  of 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  of  the  apostleship,  and  sealed  them  upon  the 
head  of  Joseph  Smith,  he  sealed  them  upon  his  head  to  stay  here  upon  the 
earth  until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man.  Well  miqht  Brigham  Young 
say,  "The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  here."  They  were  with  him 
to  the  day  of  his  death.  They  then  rested  upon  the  head  of  another  man 
— President  John  Taylor.  He  held  those  keys  to  the  hour  of  his  death. 
They  then  fell  by  turn,  or  in  the  providence  of  God,  upon  Wilford 
Woodruff. 

I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are 
here,  and  they  are  going  to  stay  here,  too,  until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man.  Let  all  Israel  understand  that.  They  may  not  rest  upon  my  head 
but  a  short  time,  but  they  will  then  rest  on  the  head  of  another  apostle, 
and  another  after  him,  and  so  continue  until  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  to  "reward  every  man  according  to  the 
deeds  done  in  the  body."  .... 

I  say  to  all  Israel  at  this  day,  I  say  to  the  whole  world,  that  the 
God  of  Israel,  who  organized  this  Church  and  kingdom,  never  ordained 
any  President  or  Presidency  to  lead  it  astray.  Hear  it,  ye  Israel,  no  man 
who  has  ever  breathed  the  breath  of  life  can  hold  these  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  lead  the  people  astray.  (The  Discourses  of  Wilford 
Woodruff,  pp.  73,  74.) 

Church  Led  by  Revelation 

To  my  way  of  thinking  there  has  never  been  a  day  from  the 
time  that  Joseph  Smith  organized  this  Church  up  to  the  present 
moment  when  it  has  not  been  led  by  revelation,  led  by  inspiration 
when  the  living  oracles  have  not  given  the  people  the  counsel  and 
the  instruction  and  the  commandments  that  the  Lord  wanted  the 
people  to  have.  He  told  his  early  elders  that  whatever  they  spoke 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  was  scripture,  that  it  was 
the  mind  of  the  Lord  the  will  of  the  Lord,  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the 
voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  There  will 
never  be  a  time  when  the  canon  of  scripture  will  be  full.  Just  as 
long  as  there  are  elders  in  this  kingdom  to  bear  inspired  witness  ot 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

Christ,  there  will  be  more  scripture.  There  has  been  more  scripture 
given  from  this  pulpit  during  the  course  of  this  conference,  and  it 
is  as  much  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  as  any  recorded  in  the 
standard  works.  When  the  Church  establishes,  as  it  did  a  little 
over  eleven  years  ago,  a  welfare  plan,  a  plan  announced  by  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  then,  knowing  what  we  know,  we  are 
entitled  to  accept  it  as  a  revelation,  to  receive  it  as  the  mind  and  will 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Harmony  with  the  Scriptures 

There  is  nothing  about  the  Church,  there  is  no  doctrine,  no 
procedure  or  no  ordinance,  no  law  or  principle,  that  is  not  in  com^ 
plete  harmony  with  the  scriptures  and  with  reason.  We  can  estab- 
lish that  everything  we  have  is  reasonable  and  scriptural  and  that  we 
are  in  whole  accord  with  the  identical  Church  of  Christ  that  was 
set  up  two  thousand  years  ago.  But  after  we  have  done  that,  and 
after  we  have  put  our  houses  in  order  and  have  harmonized  our  lives 
with  the  doctrines  that  have  been  revealed,  then  we  are  entitled  to 
know  that  this  is  the  Lord's  kingdom  and  to  know  it  as  a  matter 
of  faith  and  testimony,  as  a  matter  of  feeling  and  revelation.  Once 
we  get  that  in  our  hearts  we  enter  into  the  rest  of  the  Lord  and  are 
not  driven  about  by  every  wind  of  doctrine  or  by  the  cunning  crafti- 
ness of  men.  Because  our  testimonies  are  secure,  we  rest  from  all 
anxiety  and  turmoil  of  spirit,  and  if  we  continue  in  diligence  and 
valiance  in  the  kingdom,  we  will  eventually  rest  with  our  Father  in 
heaven  in  the  eternal  worlds,  "which  rest  is  the  fulness  of  his  glory." 
(D.  &  C.  84:24.) 

I  think  there  is  no  occasion  for  any  person  in  this  Church  to 
fear  for  the  destiny  of  the  kingdom.  We  do  not  need  to  steady 
the  ark,  but  we  do  need  to  have  in  our  hearts  a  fear  that  we  may  not 
make  ourselves  worthy,  that  we  may  not  hew  to  the  line  of  righteous- 
ness and  keep  the  commandments  of  God  with  that  degree  of  valiance 
which  will  give  us  our  exaltation  in  the  eternal  worlds. 

I  would  like  to  bear  you  my  witness,  as  one  elder  in  this  king- 
dom, that  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord;  that  God  has  spoken 
in  this  day;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  prophet  and  instrument  in  his 
hands  of  giving  us  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  salvation;  and  that 
just  as  surely  as  we  will  live  in  harmony  with  them,  we  will  have 
glory  and  honor  added  upon  our  heads  forever,  and  our  calling  and 
elections  will  be  sure.    In  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Some  weeks  ago  I  had  an  interview  with  a  young  man  who  is 
just  making  a  remarkable  recovery  from  very  serious  wounds  that 
he  received  on  the  European  battlefield.  In  an  explosion  of  a  land 
mine  this  young  man  had  suffered  a  severe  spinal  injury  that  had 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


63 


almost  completely  paralyzed  him,  and  when  the  rescue  squad  came 
and  was  carrying  him  off  the  field,  the  enemy  turned  loose  a  burst 
of  machine  gun  fire  from  which  he  suffered  six  bullet  wounds  in 
his  chest.  He  was  taken  to  the  hospital  in  what  was  thought;  to 
be  a  dying  condition.  As  he  lay  there  on  his  cot  after  having  been 
treated  by  the  surgeons,  a  chaplain  came  to  him  wearing  an  in- 
signia of  a  sectarian  church.  He  asked  this  young  man  what  his 
religion  was.  On  being  told  that  he  was  a  Latter-day  Saint,  the 
chaplain  said:  "Well,  then,  perhaps  you  would  rather  I  would  not 
pray  for  you." 

Prayer  of  Chaplain 

"Oh,  yes,"  said  the  young  man,  "I  would  like  to  have  you  pray 
for  me  if  you  feel  inclined  to." 

Then  the  chaplain  with  great  deference  said:  "Well,  I  will 
remove  the  insignia  of  my  church  and  kneel  down  here  at  your  cot. 
The  two  of  us  will  then  just  pray  together  as  two  men  of  God." 

The  young  man  said  the  chaplain  prayed  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  The  burden  of  his  prayer  and  the  chief  thing  that  he 
could  remember  of  what  the  chaplain  said  was  this,  that  sustained 
him  and  put  into  him  the  feeling  that  he  wanted  to  live: 

O  God,  help  us  that  in  our  living  we  are  not  afraid  to  die  and  that 
in  our  dying  we  are  not  afraid  to  live. 

I  have  thought  about  that  prayer  many  times  since,  and  I  have 
asked  myself  the  question:  How  many  thousands  are  there  among 
us  today  who  are  living  such  lives  that  would  make  them,  unless 
they  repent,  afraid  to  die,  and  that  in  their  dying  they  might  be 
afraid  to  live  hereafter? 

The  purpose  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  teach  men  to 
live  so  that  when  they  die,  in  the  words  of  the  immortal  "Thana- 
topsis": 

Thou  go  not,  like  the  quarry-slave  at  night, 
Scourged  to  his  dungeon,  but,  sustained  and  soothed 
By  an  unfaltering  trust.  .  .  . 

Gospel  "Perfect  Law  of  Liberty" 

The  Apostle  Paul  defined  the  gospel  as  the  "power  of  God 
unto  salvation,"  and  to  the  Apostle  James  the  gospel  was  the  "per- 
fect law  of  liberty." 

The  Master  enlarged  upon  that  latter  definition  in  his  state- 
ment to  those  who  listened  to  his  words  when  he  said: 

If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed:  And 
ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free.  (John  8:31-32.) 

The  nature  of  this  liberty  and  this  freedom  of  which  the 
Master  spoke  he  further  explained  in  a  revelation  given  to  us  in 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  i  Second 

our  day,  speaking  of  Adam  and  all  his  posterity  which  are  repre- 
sented in  all  of  humankind.    Said  the  Lord: 

Wherefore,  I,  the  Lord  God,  caused  that  he  [meaning  Adam]  should 
be  cast  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  from  my  presence,  because  of  his 
"transgression,  wherein  he  became  spiritually  dead,  which  is  the  first 
death,  even  that  same  death  which  is  the  last  death,  which  is  spiritual, 
which  shall  be  pronounced  upon  the  wicked  at  the  last  day  when  I  shall 
say:  Depart,  ye  cursed.  But,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  I,  the  Lord  God, 
gave  unto  Adam  and  unto  his  seed,  that  they  should  not  die  as  to  the 
temporal  death,  until  I,  the  Lord  God,  should  send  forth  angels  to  de- 
clare unto  them  repentance  and  redemption,  through  faith  on  the  name  of 
mine  Only  Begotten  Son.  And  thus  did  I,  the  Lord  God,  appoint  unto 
man  the  days  of  his  probation — that  by  his  natural  death  he  might  be 
raised  in  immortality  unto  eternal  life,  even  as  many  as  would  believe; 
And  they  that  believe  not  unto  eternal  damnation;  for  they  cannot  be 
redeemed  from  their  spiritual  fall,  because  they  repent  not;  .  .  .  (D.  &  C. 
29:41-44.) 

"Ye  Must  Be  Born  Again" 

That  revelation  given  to  us  in  our  day  makes  more  under- 
standable the  answer  the  Master  made  to  Nicodemus  who  came 
to  him  asking  what  he  must  do  to  be  saved.  In  answer  the  Master 
replied,  "Ye  must  be  born  again," — born  of  the  water  and  of  the 
spirit,  or  he  could  not  see  nor  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Baptism  by  immersion  symbolizes  the  death  and  burial  of  the 
man  of  sin;  and  the  coming  forth  out  of  the  water,  the  resurrection 
to  a  newness  of  spiritual  life.  After  baptism,  hands  are  laid  upon 
the  head  of  the  baptized  believer,  and  he  is  blessed  to  receive  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Thus  does  the  one  baptized  receive  the  promise  or 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  or  the  privilege  of  being  brought  back  into 
the  presence  of  one  of  the  Godhead,  by  obedience  to  whom  and 
through  his  faithfulness  one  so  blessed  might  receive  the  guidance 
and  direction  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  his  daily  walks  and  talks,  even 
as  Adam  walked  and  talked  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  with  God,  his 
Heavenly  Father.  To  receive  such  guidance  and  such  direction 
from  the  Holy  Ghost  is  to  be  spiritually  reborn. 

Parable  of  the  Sower 

Unfortunately,  there  are  many  of  those  who  are  blessed  to 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost  and  that  companionship  of  one  of  the  God- 
head in  their  mortal  lives  who  fail  of  their  blessings.  This  was 
taught  plainly  by  the  Master  in  the  parable  of  the  sower  who  was 
represented  as  the  teachers  of  the  gospel.  He  classified  those  to 
whom  the  gospel  was  taught  into  four  different  groups!  Of  one 
group  he  said,  in  effect:  "These  are  those  who  received  the  seed 
by  the  wayside,  and  the  birds  came  quickly  and  caught  it  up  and 
stole  it  away,"  suggesting  those  who  heard  the  word  but  lacked 
understanding  and  the  devil  was  quick  to  take  the  word  away  from 
their  hearts  lest  they  would  receive  it  and  would  believe  to  their 
salvation. 

Another  class  he  compared  to  those  who  received  the  seed 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


65 


on  stony  ground,  and  it  began  to  take  root,  but  when  the  sun  came 
out,  it  was  scorched  and  withered  away  because  it  had  not  much 
root,  suggesting  those  who  received  the  seed  and  for  a  time  had 
joy  in  that  understanding,  but  then  when  persecution  and  affliction 
come  because  of  the  word,  they  become  offended  and  dwindle  in 
their  belief. 

Another  group  of  those  who  hear  the  gospel  are  the  ones  who 
receive  it  as  among  thorns,  and  the  thorns  after  a  time  choked  out 
the  seed.  These,  he  said,  were  like  those  who  let  the  cares  of  the 
world,  the  deceitfulness  of  riches,  and  the  pleasures  and  the  lusts 
of  the  world,  destroy  their  activity  in  the  Church  that  might  have 
brought  them  safely  into  eternal  life. 

Fortunately,  there  were  some  who  received  the  gospel  in  good 
ground,  and  these  brought  forth  some  a  hundred-fold,  some  sixty- 
fold  and  some  thirty-fold.  And  that  is  just  about  the  way  the  ac- 
tive membership  of  the  Church  seems  to  be  grouped  among  us  to- 
day, some  giving  full  hundred  percent  service  and  some,  unfor- 
tunately, only  thirty-fold. 

Failure  to  Realize  Blessings 

Again,  in  this  day  the  Lord  gave  us  a  revelation  that  sug- 
gested clearly  the  reasons  why  some  men  fail  of  their  blessings. 
He  said: 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 
That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled 
nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness.  That  they  may 
be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our 
sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  control  or 
dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man.  Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is 
left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks,  to  persecute  the  saints,  and 
to  fight  against  God.  (D.  &  C.  121:35-38.) 

That  it  seems  to  me,  as  we  have  experienced  it,  is  about  the 
progressive  way  that  men  begin  to  fall  away.  They  first  begin  to 
"kick  against  the  pricks."  I  have  wondered  what  that  means. 
These  no  doubt  are  the  pricks  of  the  gospel.  I  wonder,  perhaps,  if 
they  are  not  those  things  referred  to  in  President  Clark's  remark- 
able article  some  years  ago  in  The  Improvement  Era,  that  he  called 
"restraints,"  the  restraints  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  restraints 
imposed  in  keeping  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  injunctions  against  card 
playing,  the  restraints  imposed  by  following  out  the  welfare  pro- 
gram. And  so  we  might  go  on.  These  are  the  restraints  against 
which  some  people  seem  to  rebel  and  are  kicking  constantly 
against — the  "pricks"  of  the  gospel. 

I  remember  in  this  connection  what  somebody  said  in  classi- 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

fying  humankind.  He  said  there  were  only  three  kinds  of  people 
in  the  world — "Saints,  Ain'ts,  and  Complaints,"  and  perhaps  the 
"Complaints"  would  represent  those  who  seem  to  be  kicking  against 
the  pricks.  These  are  the  ones  who  next  begin  to  "persecute  the 
Saints"  and,  finally,  "to  fight  against  God." 

Apostates  in  Darkness 

Speaking  of  those  who  would  persecute  the  Saints,  I  am 
reminded  of  what  the  Prophet  Joseph  said  while  he  was  upon  the 
earth.    He  said: 

From  apostates  the  faithful  have  received  the  severest  persecutions. 
Judas  was  rebuked  and  immediately  betrayed  his  Lord  into  the  hands 
of  his  enemies  because  Satan  entered  into  him.  There  is  a  superior  in- 
telligence bestowed  upon  such  as  obey  the  gospel  with  full  purpose  of 
heart,  which,  if  sinned  against,  the  apostate  is  left  naked  and  destitute 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  he  is,  in  truth,  nigh  unto  cursing,  and  his  end 
is  to  be  burned.  When  once  that  light  which  was  in  them  is  taken  from 
them,  they  become  as  much  darkened  as  they  were  previously  en- 
lightened, and  then,  no  marvel,  if  all  their  powers  should  be  enlisted 
against  the  truth  and  they,  Judas  like,  seek  the  destruction  of  those  who 
were  their  greatest  benefactors.  (Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  67.) 

Yes,  persecution  seems  to  be  the  part  of  those  who  would 
teach  the  truth.    You  remember  what  the  Master  said: 

Blessed  are  ye,  when  man  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and 
shall  say  all  manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  .  .  .  for  so  persecuted 
they  the  prophets  which  were  before  you.  (Matt.  5:11,  12.) 

1  remember  a  few  years  ago,  upon  assignment  from  the  Presi- 
dency and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  I  interviewed  a  man  who, 
because  of  his  sinning,  had  fallen  away  and  had  been  excommuni- 
cated from  the  Church.  He  said  to  me:  "I  want  to  bear  you  this 
testimony  that  the  last  few  years  have  been  a  pretty  rugged  road. 
When  I  received  the  pronouncement  of  the  court  that  excommuni- 
cated me  from  the  Church,  it  was  just  as  though  someone  had  turned 
off  the  light  to  my  soul.  I  was  left  in  complete  darkness  from  that 
time  forward." 

Pure  in  Heart  See  God 

In  the  Master's  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  he  made  another  very 
expressive  declaration  when  he  said: 

Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God.  {Ibid.,  8.) 

You  will  remember  that  in  his  lifetime  there  were  some  who 
saw  him  only  as  the  son  of  the  carpenter.  There  were  some  who  said 
that  because  of  his  words  he  was  drunken  with  strong  wine — that 
he  was  a  winebibber.  There  were  some  who  even  thought  him 
to  be  possessed  of  devils.  Only  those  who  were  the  pure  in  heart 
saw  him  as  the  Son  of  God. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


67 


So  it  is  today.  There  are  some  who  look  upon  the  leaders  of 
this  Church  and  God's  anointed  as  men  who  are  possessed  of  selfish 
motives.  By  them  the  words  of  our  leaders  are  always  twisted  to 
try  to  bring  a  snare  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Mark  well  those  who 
speak  evil  of  the  Lord's  anointed  for  they  speak  from  impure  hearts. 
Only  the  "pure  in  heart"  see  the  "God"  or  the  divine  in  man  and 
accept  our  leaders  and  accept  them  as  prophets  of  the  Living  God. 

The  testimonies  of  our  leaders,  in  this  connection,  have  been 
very  significant  to  me.  I  remember  hearing  President  Grant  on 
several  occasions  say: 

Whenever  certain  individuals  who  are  not  living  good  lives,  begin 
to  compliment  me  and  to  speak  well  of  me,  I  say  to  myself,  "Heber  J. 
Grant,  what's  the  matter  with  you;  you  must  not  be  doing  your  duty,  or 
this  kind  of  person  wouldn't  feel  so  kindly  toward  you." 

I  remember  the  prophetic  pronouncement  that  was  made  from 
this  stand  by  President  George  Albert  Smith  eighteen  months  ago 
when  he  said: 

Many  have  belittled  Joseph  Smith,  and  those  who  have  will  be  for- 
gotten in  the  remains  of  mother  earth  and  the  odor  of  their  infamy  will  be 
ever  with  them,  but  honor,  majesty,  and  fidelity  to  God  attached  to  Joseph 
Smith's  name  and  exemplified  by  him  will  never  die. 

I  wish  that  statement  could  be  heard  to  all  the  ends  of  the 
earth. 

Critics  Spiritually  Sick 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  experience  I  have 
had  has  taught  me  that  those  who  criticize  the  leaders  of  this  Church 
are  showing  signs  of  a  spiritual  sickness  which,  unless  curbed,  will 
bring  about  eventually  spiritual  death.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony 
as  well  that  those  who  in  public  seek  by  their  criticism,  to  belittle 
our  leaders  or  bring  them  into  disrepute,  will  bring  upon  themselves 
more  hurt  than  upon  those  whom  they  seek  thus  to  malign.  I  have 
watched  over  the  years,  and  I  have  read  of  the  history  of  many  of 
those  who  fell  away  from  this  Church,  and  I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony that  no  apostate  who  ever  left  this  Church  ever  prospered 
as  an  influence  in  his  community  thereafter. 

It  is  well  that  we  remember  today  that  statement  of  the  prophet 
of  old  which  was  sung  so  beautifully  as  the  words  of  the  Master 
by  the  choir  today.    It  was  the  Prophet  Isaiah  who  said: 

.  .  .  Peace,  peace  to  him  that  is  far  off,  and  to  him  that  is  near,  saith 
the  Lord;  and  I  will  heal  him.  But  the  wicked  are  like  the  troubled  sea, 
when  it  cannot  rest,  whose  waters  cast  up  mire  and  dirt.  There  is  no 
peace,  saith  my  God,  to  the  wicked.  (Isaiah  57:19-21.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  my  prayer  is  for  all  of  us,  that  we  may 
so  live,  that  when  our  time  comes,  we  may  not  be  afraid  to  die,  and 
that  when  we  die,  we  may  look  confidently  forward  to  a  life,  an 
eternal  life,  in  the  presence  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  celestial 
kingdom,  and  I  pray  it  humbly,  in  his  name.  Amen. 


68  '  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  I  stand  here  this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  a 
heart  full  of  gratitude  for  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference. 
There  is  something  stimulating  in  meeting  with  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  isn't  any  place  in  all  the  world  where  one  may  be  built  up 
in  his  faith  as  in  the  service  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Philosophies  of  Men 

There  are  many  philosophies  and  concepts  that  have  been  ad- 
vanced to  bring  comfort  and  cheer  in  this  sorrowing  world.  They 
all  have  their  place,  and  much  good  has  come  therefrom.  Someone 
was  kind  enough  to  hand  me  a  few  lines,  the  lines  of  a  bit  of  philos- 
ophy that  I  think  are  attributed  to  Plato,  which  runs  something  like 
this: 

God  is  love,  but  God  is  eternal,  therefore  love  is  eternal.  But  unless 
there  is  something  to  love,  there  can  be  no  love;  therefore,  that  which  we 
love  must  be  eternal  because  of  the  first  proposition  that  God  and  love 
are  eternal.  Therefore  we  are  eternal. 

These  lines,  doubtless  prompted  the  lines  of  Wordsworth  where- 
in he  wrote: 

Our  birth  is  but  a  sleep  and  a  forgetting; 
The  Soul  that  rises  with  us,  our  life's  Star, 
Hath  had  elsewhere  its  setting, 
And  cometh  from  afar; 

Not  in  entire  forgetfulness, 

And  not  in  utter  nakedness, 

But  trailing  clouds  of  glory  do  we  come 

From  God,  who  is  our  home. 

(Wordsworth,  "Intimations  of  Immortality.") 

All  of  these,  beautiful  in  very  deed! 

Strength  and  Power  of  Gospel  Message 

But,  after  all.  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  nothing  that 
equals  in  power  and  in  strength  the  message  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
It  is  a  simple  thing.  God  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  as  a  Savior 
for  the  children  of  men,  that  he  might  give  to  them  the  gospel  whereby 
they  might  so  live  that  it  would  permit  them  to  come  back  into  his 
presence.  Jesus  came  upon  the  earth;  he  taught  his  message;  he 
lived  it;  he  showed  his  disciples  how  to  live  it;  he  brought  them  in 
yery  deed  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  He  lived  among  his  disciples 
for  only  a  few  short  years,  and  then  was  taken  by  cruel  men  and 


ELDER  FRITZ  JOHANNESON 


69 


crucified;  and  on  the  third  day  he  arose  from  the  tomb.  Some  of 
his  disciples,  anxious  to  complete  the  burial  service,  repaired  to  the 
tomb  on  that  beautiful  Sabbath  morning,  there  to  find,  as  they 
thought,  that  the  Master  had  been  taken  away,  later  to  learn  that 
he  was  risen,  that  he  had  become  the  resurrected  Lord.  Many 
things  in  connection  with  his  ministry  transcend  our  power  of  under- 
standing, but  our  lack  of  understanding  does  not  change  the  fact 
that  he  did  live  and  die  and  was  resurrected. 

Evidence  was  given  to  the  disciples  of  this:  He  came  among 
them,  showed  them  the  wounds  in  his  hands,  partook  of  food  with 
them,  and  then  after  a  short  ministry  ascended  to  heaven  with  the 
promise  that  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  he  would  come  again.  There 
is  not  anything,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  the  world  that  equals 
faith  in  this  divine  truth.  There  is  not  any  comfort  that  can  come 
to  the  human  heart  that  equals  a  conviction  of  the  truth  of  the  mes- 
sage of  the  Lord  Jesus.  And  to  think  that  we  have  been  made  par- 
takers of  that,  for  he  has  revealed  himself  again  in  this  day,  once 
more  revealing  to  the  world  that  he  lives,  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God. 
that  the  resurrcetion  from  the  dead  is  a  reality,  that  our  lives  do  not 
end  in  death,  but  that  we  live  and  will  continue  to  live  as  immortal 
spirits  until  the  time  shall  come  when  God  will  call  us  forth  from  the 
grave  just  as  he  did  Jesus.  It  is  a  glorious  faith,  and  I  am  grateful 
to  join  with  you  this  beautiful  morning  in  thanking  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  blessing  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  we  be  worthy  of  these  blessings  and  be  able  to  order  our 
lives  that  we  may  ultimately  come  back  into  his  presence,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRITZ  JOHANNESON 

Former  Acting  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 

It  is  a  very  humble  man  who  is  now  standing  before  you.  My 
family  and  I  just  came  from  Sweden,  and  I  cannot  speak  good  Eng- 
lish, but  I  trust  in  God  that  you  can  understand  what  I  shall  say. 

When  the  world  war  was  breaking  out  it  was  an  experience  of 
great  importance  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  In  the  Swedish  Mis- 
sion we  had  70  missionaries,  and,  as  you  know,  they  were  called 
home.  The  local  brethren  were  asked  to  take  charge  of  the  mis- 
sionary work,  which  they  did  with  great  willingness  and  humility; 
and  I  can  say  that  the  Lord  was  good  to  us  and  blessed  us  and  the 
saints. 

In  Sweden  we  did  not  have  to  suffer  from  lack  of  foodstuffs. 
We  could  help  the  saints  in  Norway  and  Finland.  Finland  also  had 
belonged  to  the  Swedish  Mission  since  it  was  organized,  but  now  it 
is  a  separate  mission  with  President  Henry  A.  Matis  as  its  first  pres- 
ident. When  President  Matis  arrived  in  Finland  there  were  two 
newly  organized  branches,  one  in  Helsinki  and  one  in  Oboe.  I  had  the 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

opportunity  to  be  a  missionary  in  Finland  after  I  was  released  from 
my  work  as  acting  president  in  Sweden.  When  President  Benson 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  came  to  the  Swedish  and  Finnish  Mis- 
sions it  was  a  great  event.  All  of  this  time  Finland  was  being  pre- 
pared for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  I  saw  at  that  time  how 
'much  better  the  work  was  going  forward.  The  newspapers  were 
very  friendly,  and  they  had  fine  articles  on  the  front  pages  of  their 
papers.  Finland  was  the  first  land  in  the  northern  countries  to  which 
our  message  could  be  sent  over  the  radio. 

I  am  very  thankful  for  the  opportunity  which  I  have  to  bear  my 
testimony,  which  I  do  now,  that  I  know  that  God  lives;  I  know  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  know  that  President  George  Albert  Smith  is  also  a  prophet 
of  God.  It  is  not  very  long  ago  that  I  was  standing  in  Hamburg 
and  a  missionary  was  giving  that  message,  and  from  that  time  I  have 
read  the  scriptures.  I  recognized  that  the  message  that  missionary 
gave  was  true,  and  the  time  came  when  I  had  to  repent.  I  know 
that  we  cannot  baptize  a  man  .or  a  woman  who  has  not  faith  and  who 
has  not  repented.  We  must  always  have  repentance.  I  thank  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  wonderful  feeling  that  I  have  and  for  the 
beautiful  messages  we  have  heard  at  this  conference  and  that  we 
shall  hear.  I  pray  that  we  may  accept  of  these  things  and  so  live 
that  our  Heavenly  Father  can  accept  of  us.  I  do  this  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

(At  President  McKay's  request,  Brother  Johanneson  then  bore 
a  brief  testimony  in  the  Swedish  language.) 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder  Fritz  Johanneson,  Acting  Presi- 
dent of  the  Swedish  Mission  during  the  war,  who  bore  a  word  of 
greeting  in  his  native  tongue,  Swedish. 

As  a  matter  of  interest,  how  many  present  in  this  audience 
understood  Elder  Johanneson  when  he  spoke  in  Swedish? 

(Many  hands  were  raised) 

Thank  you!    A  goodly  number. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  feel  grateful,  brothers  and  sisters,  for  this  occasion,  and  for 
the  privilege  of  worshipping  with  you,  as  I  do  when  I  travel,  week 
after  week,  through  the  stakes  of  Zion.  You  are  the  most  wonder- 
ful people  in  the  world,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  to  be  considered 
worthy  to  be  numbered  among  you. 

Aaronic  Priesthood  Pageant 
During  the  past  week  or  ten  days,  we  presented  in  this  taber- 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


71 


naclc  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  pageant,  Prepare  Ye  the  Way.  I 
would  like  to  express,  for  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church, 
our  appreciation  to  all  those  who  made  the  pageant  possible:  to 
Sister  Evelyn  Wood  for  writing  it,  Brother  Mitchell  for  preparing 
the  music,  Brother  Palmer  and  Brother  Lees  for  directing  it,  and 
all  who  took  part  therein. 

Since  witnessing  the  presentation  of  it  three  times,  I  have 
thought  a  great  deal  of  the  message  that  it  conveyed.  Several  of 
the  speakers  in  this  conference  have  referred  to  our  pre-existent 
state.  I  am  sure  that  if  the  veil  were  rolled  back  and  we  under- 
stood today  as  we  did  then,  the  purpose  of  earth  life,  and  the  privi- 
leges that  were  to  be  ours,  we  would  be  a  little  more  attentive  to 
responsibilities  which  are  ours. 

In  the  pageant,  when  the  spirits  were  about  to  come  to  this 
earth,  Father  Adam  was  asked  if  there  would  be  anyone  here  at 
the  crossroads  to  show  them  the  way,  and  they  were  told  there 
would  be  their  parents  and  the  priesthood  of  God.  If  these  two 
should  not  fail  there  would  not  be  much  danger  or  much  to  worry 
about  our  young  people,  but  if  the  parents  fail  and  the  priesthood 
fails  in  its  duty,  then  we  can  hardly  expect  that  these  choice  spirits 
of  promise  will  return  to  the  Father  and  receive  the  plaudit:  "Well 
done  thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 

Those  of  you  who  saw  the  pageant  will  remember  that  when 
some  of  the  boys  dropped  out  of  the  priesthood  activity  and  gave 
their  reasons  for  so  doing,  one  little  fellow  said:  "My  father  doesn't 
go  to  priesthood  meeting,  and  I  want  to  be  like  my  father."  Following 
our  presentation  of  the  pageant  six  years  ago,  a  Relief  Society  in 
one  of  the  wards  in  a  testimony  meeting  was  discussing  the  pag- 
eant, and  one  good  sister  said:  "I  took  my  husband  to  see  the  pag- 
eant and  when  that  little  fellow  said:  'My  father  doesn't  go  to 
priesthood  meeting,  and  I  want  to  be  like  my  father,'  I  felt  my 
husband  cringe  just  like  he  had  been  hit  with  an  electric  shock. 
The  next  Sunday  morning  when  my  boy  was  getting  ready  for 
priesthood  meeting  his  father  said,  'Wait  a  minute  my  boy,  I  am 
going  with  you.'  The  boy  said:  'You  don't  mean  it  do  you,  Dad?' 
And  I  got  his  eye  and  told  him  not  to  say  anything  about  the  pag- 
eant, and  his  father  went  along  with  him  to  priesthood  meeting." 

We  have  been  told  as  we  travel  throughout  the  Church  that 
the  greatest  deterrent  to  the  success  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and 
Latter-day  Saint  girls  program  of  the  Church  is  the  indifference  of 
the  parents.  It  seems  almost  incredible  to  believe  that  such  a  thing 
is  true. 

Parents  Influence  Children 

Brother  Benson,  in  his  beautiful  address  on  the  home,  told 
us  of  the  charge  the  Lord  has  laid  upon  the  parents  in  Israel  to  teach 
their  children  faith  in  the  Living  God,  repentance  and  baptism,  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands,  and  teach  them  to  pray  and  to  walk  up- 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  1  Second  DaV 

rightly  before  the  Lord  in  all  things,  with  the  statement  that  if  they 
failed  in  so  doing  the  sin  would  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 
I  wish  every  father  and  mother  in  Israel  realized  what  that  meant 
and  what  it  will  mean  when  they  give  a  reckoning  for  the  steward- 
ship that  has  been  theirs  to  be  privileged  to  be  the  parents  of  these 
chosen  spirits  who  are  permitted  to  come  upon  the  earth  in  this 
day  and  time. 

A  short  time  ago  one  of  the  leaders  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
in  one  of  our  stakes  handed  me  a  copy  of  an  article  that  appeared 
in  a  magazine  that  was  published  by  the  Kiwanis  Club.  I  want  to 
read  a  few  excerpts  from  it: 

There  is  a  general  opinion  that  children  are  bright.  In  my  'opinion 
there  is  no  greater  fallacy.  They  are  so  dumb  that  it  is  a  wonder  we  ever 
make  really  useful  citizens  out  of  them. 

To  illustrate,  the  article  says, 

I  know  a  fellow,  a  Kiwanian  by  the  way,  who  has  two  small  boys. 
He  is  a  well-educated,  cultured  gentleman,  with  a  lovely  wife  and  a  nice 
home.  Those  two  boys  have  been  reared  with  every  advantage.  This 
man  takes  his  golf  clubs  and  hikes  out  to  the  golf  course  every  Sunday 
morning  of  his  life,  and  can  you  imagine  it,  those  two  boys  are  so  dumb 
that  they  can't  understand  why  they  should  be  made  to  go  to  Sunday 
School?  They  think  they  should  be  permitted  to  go  fishing  or  swimming 
Sunday  morning  instead  of  going  to  church!  Nothing  their  father  says  to 
them  seems  to  convince  the  dumb  little  creatures  that  they  should  spend 
two  hours  in  church  on  Sunday  morning. 

To  save  time,  I  will  relate  one  or  two  more  of  these  com- 
ments. The  next  one  is  about  the  father  and  mother  who  always 
preface  their  meal  with  a  cocktail.  They  have  a  son  and  a  daugh- 
ter in  high  school  who  went  to  a  dinner-dance,  and  the  father  found 
out  that  the  children  each  had  a  cocktail  before  dinner.  Those  two 
kids  were  so  dumb  that  when  they  were  called  on  the  carpet  by 
their  dad,  they  couldn't  understand  why  they  shouldn't  drink  cock- 
tails! "I  tell  you,  kids  are  dumb." 

A  man  who  occupied  a  prominent  position  in  his  community, 
when  he  was  out  in  the  yard  and  would  hit  his  finger  with  a  ham- 
mer or  run  against  a  wire  clothesline,  would  make  the  sky  blue 
with  his  profanity,  and  yet  when  his  six-year-old  boy  called  the 
cat  a  "damned  cat"  because  it  ran  across  the  table,  the  father 
promptly  spanked  him  and  washed  his  mouth  out  with  soap,  but 
he  was  never  able  to  make  that  dumb  kid  understand  that  it  was 
wrong  to  swear.  And  there  was  a  mother  who  did  not  like  to 
entertain  company  when  she  wasn't  in  the  mood,  and  if  someone 
would  call  and  want  to  come  over  to  visit  her,  she  would  im- 
mediately say  she  had  house  guests  and  couldn't  receive  them,  or 
if  they  wanted  to  speak  to  her  on  the  phone  and  she  wasn't  in  the 
mood,  she  would  turn  to  her  little  girl  and  say,  "Tell  them  I  am  not 
home."  Do  you  know  that  dumb  little  girl  lies  like  Ananias.  The 
mother  has  done  all  she  can  to  break  her  of  it,  but  the  child  is  just 
a  natural  born  liar! 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


73 


Let  me  read  another  comment  on  parents: 

'Twas  a  sheep  not  a  lamb 

That  strayed  away  in  the  parable  Jesus  told, 

A  grown-up  sheep  that  strayed  away 

From  the  ninety  and  nine  in  the  fold. 

And  why  for  the  sheep  should  we  seek 

And  earnestly  hope  and  pray? 

Because  there  is  danger  when  sheep  go  wrong; 

They  lead  the  lambs  astray. 

Lambs  will  follow  the  sheep,  you  know, 

Wherever  the  sheep  may  stray. 

When  sheep  go  wrong, 

It  won't  take  long  till  the  lambs  are  as  wrong  as  they. 

And  so  with  the  sheep  we  earnestly  plead 

For  the  sake  of  the  lambs  today, 

For  when  the  sheep  are  lost 

What  a  terrible  cost 

The  lambs  will  have  to  pay. 

— The  Echo,  C.  C.  Miller 

Teach  Children  to  Honor  the  Sabbath 

If  the  fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel  understood  the  importance 
of  this  they  would  take  their  boys  and  girls  with  them  to  Church. 
No  father  would  ever  let  a  boy  of  his  grow  up  dishonoring  the  Sab- 
bath day,  working  on  the  Sabbath  day  when  it  is  work  that  does 
not  absolutely  have  to  be  done.  Brgham  Young's  statement  to  the 
Saints  when  they  first  entered  this  valley  was  that  if  they  worked 
on  the  Sabbath  day  they  would  lose  more  during  the  week  than 
they  gained  by  so  doing.  And  we  can't  get  away  from  the  com- 
mand of  the  Lord  when  he  said  that  we  should  honor  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy,  and  if  you  fathers  think  you  can  work  on  the 
Sabbath  when  you  don't  have  to,  you  must  not  be  surprised  if  your 
boys  are  just  dumb  enough  to  do  the  same  thing  when  they  grow 
to  manhood. 

On  the  other  hand  what  a  marvelous  thing  if  we  set  out  with 
the  thought  in  our  minds  that  no  matter  what  the  cost,  we  will  say 
with  the  prophet  of  old: 

...  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  serve  the  Lord.  (Joshua  24:15.) 

Work  for  Your  Children's  Welfare 

Contrasted  to  what  I  have  just  read,  I  want  to  tell  you  about 
a  convert  to  the  Church  who  came  into  my  office  just  a  few  weeks 
ago.  She  and  her  husband  came  here  for  the  gospel's  sake.  They 
had  misfortune  after  they  arrived;  through  sickness  and  hospital 
bills  they  were  brought  down  to  where  they  had  to  move  into  a 
section  which  was  not  desirable,  and  I  know,  as  you  do,  like  the 
story  v/e  used  to  hear  as  boys,  of  the  one  bad  apple  that  spoils  the 
whole  bushel,  sometimes  something  breaks  loose  that  is  very  unde- 
sirable. So  this  sister  came  in  and  said,  "Bishop,  there  are  some 
wicked  young  people  in  the  locality  where  I  am,  and  unless  some- 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Da* 

thing  is  done  about  it,  they  are  going  to  destroy  the  virtue  of  my 
daughters.  And  I  have  come  here  to  see  if  something  can't  be 
done."  We  have  heard  the  Saints  bear  testimony  that  they  would 
give  their  lives  for  the  testimony  that  is  theirs,  and  that  is  marvel- 
ous, but  I  wonder  if  they  would  be  just  as  willing  to  live  for  the 
testimony  that  is  theirs  as  to  die  for  it,  so  when  we  find  conditions 
that  threaten  the  virtue  and  the  honor  and  the  integrity  of  our 
children  we  do  something  about  it.  This  little  mother  did  something 
about  it.  We  got  the  bishop  and  the  stake  president  on  the  job  and 
she  said:  "Bishop  Richards,  if  I  have  to  do  it,  I  will  protect  the  virtue 
of  my  daughters  if  I  have  to  purchase  a  tent  and  go  up  here  on  the 
foothills  and  live  away  from  the  rest  of  you."  That  is  the  kind  of 
faith  that  will  win  and  bring  the  parents  out  triumphant  in  watching 
over  their  children  that  have  been  entrusted  to  them. 

I  remember  reading  in  The  Improvement  Era  a  statement  about 
one  of  our  good  Latter-day  Saint  mothers  over  in  Germany  who, 
when  the  invading  army  came  in.  knowing  how  they  ravished  the 
women,  took  her  two  daughters  up  in  the  attic  of  a  house  almost 
destroyed  by  the  bombs,  and  there  exposed  to  the  weather,  she 
and  the  daughters  remained  for  several  days,  and  then  when  she 
thought  it  was  safe  she  came  down  but  left  the  daughters  there  for 
days  to  protect  their  virtue.  God  bless  that  mother  and  every 
mother  like  her  in  all  the  world,  who  is  willing  to  do  all  in  her  power 
to  protect  her  children  against  the  wickedness  of  this  world. 

We  have  all  heard  the  story  about  Sister  Mary  Fielding  Smith, 
the  mother  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  came  in  from  Mill 
Creek  with  a  load  of  produce  and  delivered  it  to  the  old  tithing  of-, 
fice  on  the  block  east  of  here.  The  good  brother  in  charge,  know- 
ing she  was  a  widow  and  how  hard  it  was  for  her  to  get  along» 
hardly  had  the  courage  to  let  her  unload  that  wagon  at  the  tithing 
office.  He  said,  "Take  it  home.  You  need  it  as  much  as  anyone 
in  the  Church."  Sister  Smith  said,  "I  can't  do  it.  My  children  must 
know  that  we  pay  our  tithing."  She  knew  that  lesson  must  be 
taught  to  her  children.  Has  she  been  rewarded?  Her  son  grew 
up  to  become  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  to  preside  over  this  great 
Church. 

Faith  of  Widow 

When  I  was  the  bishop  of  a  ward  and  we  were  building  a 
meetinghouse,  a  little  German  widow  came  to  me  one  day  and 
said:  "Bishop,  I  haven't  received  my  allotment  for  the  meeting- 
house." I  said,  "No,  Sister,  and  you  aren't  going  to  get  one.  If 
you  will  just  care  for  those  little  children  your  husband  left  you  with, 
we  will  build  the  meetinghouse."  "Ah,"  she  said,  "Bishop,  but  I 
must  be  able  to  point  to  that  meetinghouse  and  tell  my  children  we 
have  done  our  part."  So  I  said,  "God  bless  you,  Sister,  but  you 
will  have  to  say  what  your  part  is  then,"  and  she  gave  us  a  sub- 
stantial contribution  toward  that  meetinghouse.    I  have  met  her 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


75 


children  as  I  have  traveled  about  from  place  to  place  in  this  Church 
and  have  found  them  active,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  she  didn't  cast 
her  bread  upon  the  water  in  vain,  for  as  the  prophet  of  old  said, 
"For  thou  shalt  find  it  after  many  days." 

You  remember  what  Alma  did  when  his  son,  Alma,  didn't  walk 
in  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  went  about  trying  to  destroy  the 
Church.  He  just  did  not  give  the  Lord  any  rest  about  it;  he  took, 
it  to  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer  until  an  angel  of  heaven  appeared 
to  his  son,  Alma,  and  the  sons  of  Mosiah,  and  when  the  angel  spake 
unto  Alma  and  his  brethren,  he  caused  the  earth  to  shake.  They 
all  engaged  in  the  ministry  and  labored  as  missionaries  unto  the 
Lamanites,  and  one  by  one  the  sons  of  Mosiah  refused  to  serve  as 
king  over  the  people,  desiring  rather  that  they  might  continue  their 
ministry  among  the  Lamanites. 

And  this  is  Alma's  statement  after  his  conversion: 

O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 
I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people!  Yea,  I  would  declare 
unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder,  repentance  and  the  plan  of 
redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come  unto  our  God,  that  there 
might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth.  (Alma  29:1,  2.) 

The  greatest  sorrow  upon  the  face  of  this  earth  is  when  men 
and  women  depart  from  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  for  truly  the  prophet 
hath  said: 

.  .  .  the  way  of  transgressors  is  hard.  (Proverbs  13:15.) 

Pray  for  Your  Children 

Now  I  want  to  admonish  you  to  pray  for  your  children,  to 
work  for  your  children,  to  do  all  within  your  power  to  help  save 
them.  God  may  not  always  send  an  angel  from  heaven,  as  he  did 
in  answer  to  Alma's  prayer,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  there  are  men 
and  women  in  this  Church  by  the  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands 
who  are  as  angels  of  heaven  in  the  hands  of  God  in  helping  to  show 
the  youth  of  Zion  the  way  to  eternal  life. 

I  want  to  tell  you  just  how  the  Lord  uses  some  of  these.  One 
of  our  good  brethren,  who  was  president  of  a  high  priests  quorum, 
and  has  since  passed  away,  told  me  this  story  himself.  He  was 
working  for  the  city.  He  was  driving  up  Main  Street  one  night 
and  saw  a  boy  in  uniform  being  accosted  by  a  wicked  woman.  He 
said:  "Something  said  to  me,  'Stop  and  rescue  that  boy.'  I  pulled 
my  car  off  to  the  side  of  the  street  and  went  over  and  took  that; 
boy  by  the  arm  and  said:  'You  come  and  go  with  me.'  The  woman 
said,  'Oh,  no  you  don't,  he  belongs  to  me.'  "  This  brother  said: 
"I  will  turn  you  over  to  the  police,"  and  she  looked  down  and  saw 
a  policeman  on  the  corner  and  walked  away.  He  took  that  boy, 
sobered  him  up  and  put  him  in  a  hotel.  The  boy  said  he  had  never 
lost  his  virtue  and  said,  "I  don't  know  why  I  found  myself  in  this 
condition."   He  gave  the  boy  his  name,  and  the  boy  wrote  to  his 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

.  t      a  Second  Day 

Saturday.  October  i 

mother  back  in  Virginia,  and  after  a  few  days  this  good  brother 
received  a  letter  from  that  boy's  mother,  reading  something  like 
this:  "I  don't  know  why  you  stopped  your  auto  and  rescued  my 
boy,  save  that  I  prayed  to  God  that  night,  for  him,  as  I  had  never 
done  before,  and  the  Lord  used  you  as  an  instrument  to  rescue 
my  boy." 

Now  if  there  were  time  I  could  tell  you  how  the  Lord  uses 
these  bishops  and  these  advisers  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  in 
the  Latter-day  Saint  girls  program  and  the  teachers  in  the  auxil- 
iaries of  this  Church  in  order  to  help  the  parents.  So,  in  the  words 
of  the  pageant,  there  are  the  parents  at  the  crossroads,  and  the 
great  organization  of  the  priesthood  of  this  Church  to  show  youth 
the  way. 

God  help  both  to  use  all  their  power  for  the  salvation  of  our 
boys  and  our  girls,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Edgar  B.  Brossard  of  the  Washington  Stake  has 
recently  been  over  in  Europe  on  official  business  and  had  an  oppor- 
tunity to  visit  some  of  our  missions  there.  We  should  like  to  hear 
a  few  words  from  President  Brossard. 


ELDER  EDGAR  B.  BROSSARD 

President  of  the  Washington  Stake 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  very  pleased  with  this  opportunity  of 
attending  conference.  It  is  an  inspiration  to  me  as  it  is  to  all  of  us 
to  be  present  in  these  sessions  and  to  acknowledge  the  Spirit  of  our 
Father  in  Heaven  which  attends  those  who  address  us,  and  to  listen 
to  the  sweet  and  inspiring  music  that  comes  from  our  choir. 

In  Europe  this  summer  I  was  privileged  to  visit  the  place  where 
I  performed  a  mission  and  lived  thirty-three  years  ago.  I  went  to 
France  and  Paris  and  then  to  Geneva,  from  there  to  Berlin,  across 
to  London,  to  Belfast,  Ireland  and  back  to  the  United  States.  The 
work  in  Europe  is  going  forward.  The  missionaries  are  there  again. 
They  are  being  well  received  in  most  places  where  they  can  get  gov- 
ernment consent  to  stay.  The  people  are  receiving  them  very  well. 
They  are  listening  to  the  gospel,  and  the  gospel  is  performing  wonders 
in  the  lives  of  the  people. 

Generally,  the  conditions  in  Europe  are  very  unfavorable.! 
People  are  confused.  They  are  confounded.  In  some  of  the  coun- 
tries they  walk  and  work  and  look  as  if  they  did  not  know  where 
they  were  going  nor  how  to  get  there.  It  is  a  very  discouraging 
spectacle  after  one  has  been  acquainted  with  European  conditions 
in  times  past  and  seen  the  intelligent,  active,  interesting  faces 
of  people — the  light  that  has  been  in  them,  and  then  see  it  almost 


ELDER  EDGAR  B.  BROSSARD 


77 


go  out,  as  one  finds  it  generally  over  Europe  today.  I  con- 
trasted that  with  our  meetings  in  Geneva,  Paris,  Lausanne,  Neu  Cha- 
tel,  London,  Berlin  and  the  eastern  branch  under  the  Russian  regime 
in  Berlin  where  I  visited  the  services  of  the  Church.  Our  people 
have  the  gospel;  and  the  encouragement,  the  purpose  of  life,  the  ob- 
jectives in  living  that  it  gives  to  them  are  shown  in  their  faces,  in 
their  activity  and  in  the  way  they  take  hold  of  things  to  rebuild,  to 
revive,  to  maintain  life,  to  establish  themselves  again.  I  never  was 
more  pleased  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  or  more  proud  of  my 
membership  in  the  Church  than  I  was  this  summer.  We  saw  reac- 
tions of  the  members  of  the  Church  to  these  various  divers  and  dis- 
couraging conditions  under  which  they  live,  and  they  are  trying  to 
rebuild  a  civilization  worth  having  again.  The  gospel  means  some- 
thing to  these  people.  It  has  helped  them  to  get  on  their  feet.  It 
has  helped  them  to  want  to  live.  It  has  helped  them  to  go  about  and 
try  to  make  conditions  that  are  worth  living  in.  It  is  the  seeing  of 
these  conditions  which  we  have  been  taught  would  be  helpful  in 
actual  practice  and  experience  that  makes  one  thoroughly  proud  of 
his  membership  in  the  Church,  humble  as  his  position  in  it  may  be. 
The  Lord  works  in  mysterious  ways,  his  wonders  to  perform.  We 
do  not  know  how,  where  or  when  our  influence  may  be  felt  for  good. 
I  often  think  of  the  little  branches  from  which  many  of  the  stalwarts 
of  the  Church  come  and  then  think  of  how  they  have  been  active  in 
doing  most  everything  in  the  Church.  In  Washington,  D.  C.  some 
of  the  most  active  and  most  useful  persons  we  have  in  the  whole 
stake  of  Zion  are  people  who  come  from  the  smallest  branches  of  the 
Church,  where  they  have  had  to  do  almost  everything  in  the  Church. 
And  it  is  that  doing  of  everything,  that  taking  on  of  the  several  parts, 
that  has  made  them  grow,  made  them  strong,  helped  them  to  under- 
stand the  principles  of  the  Church,  and  caused  the  ministrations  that 
are  available  to  us  in  the  Church  to  become  active  in  their  lives. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  while  I  stand  here,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  My  testimony  of  it  is 
sincere,  and  I  am  glad  I  have  it  and  thank  God  for  it,  for  I  believe  it 
is  a  gift  of  God;  that  this  work  is  his  work;  that  he  still  lives;  that  he 
still  is  at  the  helm,  and  his  purposes  in  the  earth  will  be  achieved  as 
we  have  been  told  here  this  afternoon.  And  the  whole  purpose  of 
the  Church  will  be  accomplished  in  the  earth.  This  is  my  testimony 
and  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  five  minutes  to  hear  Elder  Eugene  M.  Cannon,  one 
of  the  returned  mission  presidents  from  whom  we  have  not  had  the 
opportunity  to  hear  since  his  return.  Brother  Cannon  returned  from 
Tahiti  in  1940,  and  this  is  our  first  opportunity  to  hear  from  him. 

The  speaker  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is  President  Edgar 
B.  Brossard,  President  of  the  Washington  Stake  and  a  member  of 
the  U.  S.  Tariff  Commission. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Da» 

ELDER  EUGENE  M.  CANNON 

Former  President  o[  the  Tahitian  Mission 

I  hope  that  none  of  you  good  people  are  shivering  like  I  am. 
This  is  a  wonderful  privilege  that  has  come  to  me  to  stand  before 
this  vast  concourse  of  people  and  look  into  your  faces.  It  has  been 
nearly  seven  years  since  I  returned  from  my  mission.  You  brethren 
who  have  not  yet  given  your  report  do  not  get  discouraged. 

When  I  think  of  the  missionary  work  that  has  been  done  by 
this  Church,  I  can  see  that  great  things  have  been  accomplished  by 
the  elders.  As  mentioned  yesterday  by  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
a  great  missionary  work  has  been  done  and  can  be  done  amongst 
the  dark-skinned  people — the  Mexicans,  the  Indians,  and  the  natives 
of  the  Pacific  Islands.  In  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
when  Brigham  Young  was  president  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
there  came  into  the  hearts  of  the  brethren  a  desire  to  do  missionary 
work  among  those  peoples,  and  with  that  in  view  they  selected  four 
humble  elders  to  go  to  the  South  Pacific,  presumably  to  the  Sand- 
wich Islands.  They  engaged  passage  on  a  sailing  vessel  leaving 
New  Bedford,  Massachusetts  in  1843.  They  proceeded  on  their  way, 
and  having  run  out  of  foodstuffs  and  water,  they  went  ashore  after 
six  months  of  travel.  And  having  rounded  the  Horn  they  came  up 
into  the  Pacific  and  stopped  at  the  little  island  of  Tubuai  in  the 
Society  group.  The  elders  went  ashore,  and  the  natives  were  so 
glad  and  happy  to  have  missionaries  come  amongst  them  that  they 
received  them  with  open  arms.  The  elders  built  up  branches  of  the 
Church  on  those  islands  and  did  a  great  work.  It  was  not  long  after 
they  had  established  these  branches  of  the  Church  that  persecution 
came  upon  them.  The  elders  were  finally  banished  from  the  midst 
of  the  people,  but  the  natives  continued  their  faithful  duties,  and  I 
have  often  thought  since  then  where  could  we  go  to  any  branch  of 
the  Church,  to  any  stake  of  Zion,  having  been  left  for  40  years  with- 
out white  elders  from  Zion  and  find  that  they  had  continued  their 
organizations  of  the  Church.  They  continued  holding  their  meet- 
ings, their  quarterly  conferences,  their  fast  meetings,  their  advance- 
ments in  the  priesthood,  all  during  this  time  of  40  years  when  there 
were  no  white  elders  from  Zion  to  encourage  them  and  to  cause 
them  to  be  active  in  the  Church  as  they  were  in  the  days  when  the 
elders  were  there.  Great  credit  is  due  them.  They  are  a  people 
that  we  can  learn  to  love,  whom  we  do  love,  wonderfully  gifted  irt 
many  ways.  One's  heart  goes  out  to  them  when  he  visits  with  them 
and  partakes  of  their  hospitality. 

May  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  continue  with  us  in 
this  conference.  May  we  be  impressed  with  the  good  works  of  these 
people.  I  bring  to  you,  even  at  this  late  date,  the  expression  of  love 
and  good  feeling  of  those  wonderful  people  and  assure  you  that  the 
sustaining  power  of  our  Heavenly  Father  is  amongst  them.  May  God 
bless  them  and  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


79 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  President  Eugene  M.  Cannon,  form- 
erly president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Still,  Still  With  Thee"— (Shelley). 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Lincoln  F. 
Hanks  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast 
over  the  radio  stations  already  announced. 

The  singing  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  has  been  by 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting, and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  will  be  in  their  seats,  please,  not 
later  than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  of  beginning. 

After  the  singing  by  the  Choir,  the  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  President  Lincoln  F.  Hanks  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  "Still,  Still  With  Thee"—  ( Shelley ). 
Elder  Lincoln  F.  Hanks.  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock 
p.m..  Saturday,  October  4,  1947. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the 
services  of  this  session. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  1 1 8th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  all  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church,  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dilworth  Young,  presiding  over 
the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  fol- 
lowing stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at 
Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM 
at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  mem- 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Second  Day 

Saturday.  October  4 

bers  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting, 
and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  choir  singing  Mow 
Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains" — (Harker). 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  J.  bphraim 
Wahlquist  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake,  Murray,  Utah. 

Singing  by  the  Choir:  "How  Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains"— 
(Harker).  .  , 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  President  Ephraim  Wahlquist  ot 

the  Cottonwood  Stake. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  can  see  about  a  hundred  seats  that  are  vacant  in  the  body  of 
the  house  and  in  the  gallery,  that  is,  they  will  be  vacant  if  you  will 
move  over  just  a  little  closer  and  let  a  hundred  of  the  people  who  are 
standing  sit  down.    We  suggest  that  the  ushers  assist  in  this  matter. 

Elder  Jorgen  Hyllsted  will  now  sing  "Now  Heaven  in  Fullest 
Glory  Shown"— (Haydn),  after  which  Elder  Matthew  Cowley, 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 

Elder  Jorgen  Hyllsted  sang  a  solo:  "Now  Heaven  in  Fullest 
Glory  Shown" — (Haydn ) . 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will  be  Elder  Matthew  Cowley 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Cowley  has  recently  returned 
from  visiting  the  missions  of  the  South  Seas. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  with  all  my  heart  I  believe  in  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  both  spiritually 
and  temporally.  The  testimonies  I  have  heard  in  this  conference 
have  carried  conviction  into  my  heart  that  this  gospel  is  true. 

Church  Brings  Salvation 

I  know  that  had  we  lived  in  the  days  of  the  Master  and  had 
we  observed  him  at  work,  we  would  have  seen  him  placing  in  his 
organization  apostles,  prophets,  teachers,  evangelists,  high  priests, 
seventies,  elders,  priests,  teachers  and  deacons.  I  know  that  had 
we  heard  his  disciples  bear  their  message  we  would  have  heard 
them  all  say  that  this  organization  set  up  by  the  Son  of  God  is  the 
organization  through  which  the  children  of  God  would  receive  sal- 
vation. Had  we  lived  a  little  longer,  had  our  lives  been  extended 
for  two  or  three  centuries,  we  would  have  observed  that  this  organi- 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


81 


zation  set  up  by  the  Master  had  practically  disappeared  as  it  had 
been  set  up,  and  yet  we  would  have  known,  had  we  studied  the 
words,  that  there  would  come  a  day  and  a  dispensation  when  there 
would  be  a  restoration  of  all  things  spoken  by  the  mouths  of  the 
prophets,  when  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  would  be  brought  by  one 
coming  through  the  midst  of  heaven  to  the  children  of  God  upon 
the  earth. 

Now  that  we  live  in  a  dispensation  known  as  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times,  we  are  blessed  and  privileged  to  see  an  or- 
ganization with  apostles,  prophets,  teachers,  evangelists,  quorums 
of  the  priesthood,  the  same  agency,  the  same  organization  in  all  of 
its  departments  as  was  set  up  by  Christ  our  Lord,  as  his  organization, 
and  we  are  blessed  in  knowing  that  it  bears  his  name,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Gratitude  for  Faith  of  Teachers 

I  have  been  thrilled  by  the  testimonies  which  have  been  borne 
here.  I  thank  God,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  the  testimonies  of 
men  like  Brother  Oscar  Kirkham  and  Brother  Levi  Edgar  Young. 
These  men  were  my  teachers  when  I  was  struggling  for  an  education 
in  high  school  and  in  the  university.  I  thank  God  that  they  touched 
my  life  with  their  testimony  of  the  gospel  more  than  they  did  with  the 
instructions  they  had  to  give  me  as  teachers  of  an  educational  institu- 
tion. And  as  I  look  into  the  faces  of  the  great  educators  who  sit 
before  me,  who  have  in  their  charge  thousands  of  our  young  people 
at  this  time.  I  am  glad  to  know  that  they  are  men  who  know  that  in 
any  field  of  science  there  has  not  been  discovered,  and  they  know 
that  there  will  never  be  discovered,  anything  that  will  replace  religion 
as  the  savior  of  the  human  family. 

It  is  regrettable  that  we  have  in  our  institutions  of  learning,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  some  who  would  try  to  destroy  the  simple  faith 
of  our  children  which  they  have  acquired  at  the  knees  of  their  par- 
ents and  in  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church.  You  know 
and  I  know  that  there  is  no  power  under  heaven  in  this  day  which 
will  bring  peace  to  the  human  heart  and  peace  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  outside  and  beyond  this  simple  faith  in  God  our  Father  and  in 
the  efficacy  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  regenerate  the  children 
of  God  here  upon  the  earth. 

You  men  who  are  at  the  head  of  these  great  institutions,  some 
of  which  do  not  permit  the  teaching  of  religion  although  they  do 
permit  the  teaching  of  everything  and  anything  that  will  destroy 
faith  in  God,  you  have  a  great  responsibility.  It  is  your  responsibility 
to  touch  the  lives  of  your  many  students  outside  of  the  classroom  as 
my  life  has  been  touched  by  men  such  as  these  I  have  mentioned. 

Blessings  of  Temple  Work 

As  President  Smith  has  said,  I  have  recently  returned  from  a 
visit  to  the  islands  of  the  sea.    It  does  me  good  to  get  down  there 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  D*y 

among  those  great  people,  simple  people  with  a  simple  faith  in  God. 
And  I  am  reminded  as  I  stand  here  that  beyond  this  building  there 
stands  a  temple  of  God  and  that  down  in  those  islands  of  the  sea, 
many  of  them  thousands  of  miles  away  from  these  great  temples, 
there  are  hundreds  and  thousands  of  people  who  are  trying  to  come 
over  to  these  temples  and  receive  their  blessings.  You  know  the 
promise  that  the  Master  made  as  he  hanged  upon  the  cross,  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  and  considerate  of  all  his  promises,  a  promise  made 
to  a  sinner  when  he  said  to  him:  "Today  thou  shalt  be  with  me  in 
paradise." 

We  know  where  that  promise  is  today.  Brothers  and  sisters, 
our  people  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  our  people  in  the  missions  of 
Europe,  know  where  that  promise  is.  "Today  thou  shalt  be  with 
me  in  paradise."  And  how  they  long  to  come  to  participate  in  the 
blessings  of  that  promise,  how  they  long  to  come  to  the  Hawaiian 
Temple  and  go  in  there,  as  it  were,  into  paradise,  to  reach  back  into 
their  ancestry  and  say,  "Today  thou  shalt  be  with  me;  today  I  will 
bring  you  into  a  knowledge  and  an  appreciation  of  the  power  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

I  have  vividly  in  my  recollection  the  last  party  of  Maoris  to 
come  from  New  Zealand  to  the  Hawaiian  Temple,  back  in  1938.  I 
see  them  now  as  they  gathered  together.  President  Smith  was  there, 
I  think,  at  that  time.  As  they  gathered  together  in  Auckland  ready 
to  embark,  they  had  their  tickets,  return  tickets.  They  had  no  money 
in  their  pockets.  They  carried  with  them  their  boxes  of  food,  and 
they  carried  their  blankets  so  that  they  could  be  fed  and  warm  when 
they  arrived  at  the  temple.  Everything  they  owned  was  consecrated 
to  the  reception  of  that  great  blessing,  and  they  went  with  joy  in 
their  hearts.  They  traveled  steerage  on  the  ship,  but  they  were  happy, 
and  they  returned  with  a  testimony  in  their  hearts  that  Christ  meant 
what  he  said  when  he  said  to  the  thief:  "Today  thou  shalt  be  with 
me  in  paradise." 

Salvation  for  the  Dead 

Where  is  that  promise,  brothers  and  sisters,  outside  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints?  As  I  go  about  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  I  learn  that  Christianity  has  only  been  among 
those  natives  a  little  more  than  a  hundred  years.  Where  is  the 
salvation  for  the  ancestors  of  those  people,  the  children  of  Israel, 
Nephites,  who  lived  prior  to  one  hundred  years  ago  in  that  vast  ex- 
panse of  ocean  on  those  islands?  Where,  outside  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  there  salvation  for  the  Poly- 
nesians of  the  Pacific  who  lived  prior  to  the  year  1840  in  those  islands? 

Someone  has  said  a  bridge  has  no  use  unless  it  reaches  both 
banks.  We  have  the  bridge,  brothers  and  sisters,  extending  from 
one  bank  over  to  the  other.  You  who  work  in  the  temples  of  God 
cross  over  that  bridge  from  day  to  day,  and  you  know  that  there 
is  no  other  organization  on  this  earth  which  has  a  bridge  extend- 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


83 


ing  from  one  bank  over  to  the  other  so  that  they  can  walk  across 
and  reach  back  beyond  the  year  1840  or  1740,  or  whatever  the 
year  may  be,  and  bring  across  that  bridge  those  great  and  noble 
souls  who  are  our  ancestors,  the  children  of  God. 

God  grant  that  we  may  have  in  our  hearts  the  spirit  of  reaching 
back  into  the  years  and  bringing  out  our  people  from  that  place 
where  they  are  now  confined.  God  grant  that  we  may  go  into 
Potter's  Field  and  bring  out  those  broken  pieces  of  clay  and  join  them 
together  into  beautiful  lives,  that  they  may  join  with  us  in  the  great 
plan  of  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  can- 
not be  saved  without  our  dead,  and  our  dead  cannot  be  saved  without 
us. 

Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is  coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice,  And  shall  come  forth;  they  that  have 
done  good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life;  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation.  ...  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the 
life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father,  but  by  me.  {John  5:  28-29;  14:6.) 

Gathering  of  Genealogies 

That  is  God's  will  that  all  his  children  who  have  lived  in  every 
day  and  age  and  dispensation  of  time  shall  come  to  the  Father  by 
his  Son;  therefore,  let  us  cross  the  bridge  and  take  the  gospel  of  the 
Son  to  our  ancestors.  Let  us  study  our  genealogy.  Let  us  get  the 
names  together.  Let  us  not  neglect  this  great  and  important  work, 
and  I  know  it  is  important  because  when  I  see  our  people  in  the 
islands  of  the  sea  writing  their  names  down,  gathering  their  genealogy 
and  trying  to  get  those  names  over  to  the  temple,  trying  to  get  there 
themselves,  I  know  that  within  their  hearts  they  know  that  they  are 
the  children  of  God;  they  know  that  their  ancestors  were  the  children 
of  God;  and  no  Polynesian  islander  would  want  to  be  saved  without 
his  great  and  noble  ancestors. 

God  grant  that  we  may  turn  some  attention,  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  the  work  for  those  who  live  on,  on  the  other  side  of  the  bridge. 
Let  us  cross  the  bridge  over  to  them. 

Testimony  Concerning  Brethren 

I  know  as  I  stand  here  that  God  lives,  that  he  has  not  forgotten 
his  children  upon  the  earth.  I  only  wish  that  you  people  could  have 
your  lives  touched  as  intimately  as  I  have  had  my  life  touched  during 
these  brief  two  years  I  have  been  associated  in  the  councils  of  these 
great  and  good  men.  Do  not  anyone  ever  say  that  any  man  who 
belongs  to  the  councils  of  this  Church  has  ever  come  into  the  councils 
because  he  needs  or  he  wants  monetary  remuneration  or  because  he 
wants  wealth.  If  there  is  any  man  who  is  opposed  to  the  welfare 
plan  and  program  of  this  Church,  I  would  like  to  have  an  argument 
with  him  if  he  thinks  the  brethren  who  sit  here  on  this  stand  are  not 
living  on  the  welfare  program,  are  not  giving  up  much  of  this  world  s 
goods,  its  luxuries  and  its  wealth  by  accepting  the  call. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

Follow  me,  and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men.  (Matt.  4:19.) 

God  bless  us  all  with  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  God 
bless  you  men  who  are  educators,  you  men  who  sit  before  me  who 
stand  at  the  heads  of  political  organizations  and  occupy  high  gov- 
ernment offices,  that  you  may  ever  realize  that  there  is  no  salvation 
outside  of  the  plan  of  true  religion,  that  there  is  nothing  in  political 
science  or  in  physical  science,  or  in  any  other  science,  that  will  re- 
place the  simple  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  power  of  God  for  the 
salvation  of  his  children. 

God  bless  us  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  and  I  do  regard  you  as  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble  and  very  frightened  in 
looking  into  the  faces  of  this  great  congregation  in  this,  the  taber- 
nacle of  the  Lord.  I  have  sincerely  prayed  that  the  Lord  would 
bless  me  while  I  occupy  this  position  that  I  may  say  some  words 
of  meaning,  of  encouragement,  that  I  may  be  directed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  in  whatever  I  say.  I  sincerely  trust  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
you  that  you  may  meditate  during  the  conference,  that  you  may 
worship  and  that  you  may  feel  his  holy  influence. 

We  come  here  to  worship  and  to  bear  testimony  and  to  par- 
take of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  so  that  we  can  discharge  our  duties 
more  faithfully  and  so  that  we  can  live  according  to  his  plan.  The 
choir  today  has  touched  our  souls  with  beautiful  music,  and  I  am 
sure  we  are  grateful  to  this  organization. 

Tabernacle  Choir 

A  year  ago  I  had  occasion  to  go  to  Mexico  City  with  a  busi- 
nessman of  the  East.  We  discussed  religion  pro  and  con,  and 
then  I  asked  him  what  faith  he  belonged  to,  and  he  answered  me 
humbly  that  he  belonged  to  the  religion  of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir.  That  was  his  religion.  Well,  I  am  sure  they  touch  the  hearts 
of  men  each  week,  and  I  am  sure  they  mellow  their  souls.  As  you 
probably  know,  they  leave  this  coming  week  for  San  Bernardino  to 
participate  in  a  centennial  pageant  there.  They  will  broadcast  next 
Sunday  to  the  world  from  San  Bernardino. 

One  cannot  teach  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  am  convinced  of  that.  One  cannot 
be  taught  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  without  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord.  I  am  convinced  of  that.  One  cannot  teach,  nor  one 
cannot  be  taught,  without  that  sweet  Spirit. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  the  Lord's  Church.  I  have 
learned  to  love  men  as  I  did  not  think  I  ever  knew  how  to  love  men. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


85 


These  men  that  I  have  become  associated  with,  and  particularly  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  and  the  other  brethren,  are  the  finest  men  in 
all  the  world.  I  humbly  pray  to  God  that  he  will  bless  me  that  I 
may  measure  up  to  the  responsibility  and  the  confidence  of  these 
men  and  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

A  Tribute  to  Church  Officials 

As  I  go  from  stake  conference  to  stake  conference  and  meet 
new  stake  presidents  every  week,  I  meet  equally  fine  men,  men 
who  are  devoted  to  the  Church,  men  who  would  give  their  all  in 
the  service  of  the  Lord,  if  they  were  asked  to.  We  come  to  you  as 
strangers,  and  you  take  care  of  us,  see  that  we  are  properly  housed, 
and  your  wives  are  so  good  to  feed  us  and  look  after  us.  You  ex- 
tend to  us  your  kindness  and  your  courtesies,  and  as  we  kneel  down 
with  you  in  your  family  prayers,  our  hearts  are  touched,  and  we 
are  inspired  by  the  great  devotion  of  you  men  holding  those  re- 
sponsible positions. 

A  Visit  to  the  Sacred  Grove 

Brother  [Albert  E.]  Bowen  and  others  have  referred  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  as  one  of  the  most  important  influences  in  the  lives 
of  all  of  us.  A  week  ago  I  had  an  opportunity  to  walk  into  the 
Sacred  Grove,  the  place  where  that  young  man,  Joseph,  walked 
and  prayed  to  the  Lord  to  help  him.  One  cannot  walk  into  that 
grove  without  feeling  that  spirit  of  reverence,  that  spirit  of  sacred- 
ness,  the  only  spot,  if  my  memory  serves  me  right,  where  God  and 
his  son  Jesus  Christ  both  appeared  at  the  same  time,  at  the  same 
place,  and  they  spoke  to  that  boy.  Oh,  that  is  a  fact!  You  cannot 
go  into  the  grove  but  what  you  feel  that  influence.  It  is  different 
from  any  other  wooded  grove  in  all  the  world,  because  it  is  a 
sacred  place  and  a  hallowed  spot.  That  grove  is  right  behind  the 
house  where  his  father  and  mother  lived  and  where  Joseph  lived 
as  a  boy;  and  right  down  the  road  a  little  way — you  who  have  not 
been  there — is  that  other  sacred  spot,  the  Hill  Cumorah,  where  the 
angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  that  boy,  not  once,  but  in  four  con- 
secutive years,  before  he  delivered  to  him  the  golden  plates,  and 
from  them  came  the  Book  of  Mormon.  That  boy  did  not  write  that 
book.  Then  he  sealed  that  testimony  by  giving  his  life.  How  much 
more  evidence  do  we  need?  Surely  the  world  must  accept  that  as 
truth.  And  it  would  be  well  if  we  would  stimulate  that  belief  in  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  our  young  people.  If  they  can  only  feel  that  in- 
fluence, that  one  feels  when  he  is  there,  they  would  need  never  to 
doubt  nor  would  they  need  ever  to  worry. 

Before  I  left  the  grove,  I  asked  those  that  were  with  me  if  I 
could  remain  a  little  while.  Then  I  knelt  down  before  my  Father 
in  heaven  by  that  big  tree,  and  I  tried  to  pour  out  my  heart  to  him 
as  I  had  never  tried  before.    I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  in- 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

fluence  of  the  Lord  is  there,  that  all  of  that  is  true.  I  did  not  in- 
tend to  say  that,  but  the  Sacred  Grove  and  the  recent  memory  of 
it  were  fresh  in  my  mind. 

The  Youth  of  the  Church 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  more  with  reference  to  the 
young  people  of  the  Church.  We  your  fathers  and  mothers  and 
your  elders,  love  you  deeply.  I  do  not  know  whether  the  young 
people  of  the  Church  can  understand  that  we  love  them  so  much, 
or  whether  they  will  be  able  to  understand  it  or  not  until  they  have 
children  of  their  own,  but  at  least  we  want  them  to  know  that  our 
entire  love  goes  out  to  them.  We  are  concerned  about  them  be- 
cause we  know  some  of  the  pitfalls  of  life,  and  we  know  some  of 
the  experiences  of  the  social  trends.  We  know  some  of  the  teach- 
ings that  are  contrary  to  the  teachings  of  the  Church.  We  know 
some  of  the  articles  that  they  read,  and  we  know  the  speeded  high- 
way and  the  high-powered  automobiles,  and  that  is  why  we  are 
worried  about  them,  because  we  love  our  children  so  much.  And 
I  would  say  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church,  stay  close  to  your 
parents.  You  boys  of  the  Church,  if  I  could  only  touch  your  hearts 
to  urge  you  to  tell  your  dads  everything  that  goes  on  in  your  lives. 
I  feel  sorry  for  a  young  man  who  cannot  tell  his  dad  everything. 
And  I  feel  sorry  for  a  young  girl  who  cannot  tell  her  mother  every- 
thing. We  know  you  will  make  mistakes,  sometimes,  but  we  will 
love  you  just  the  same,  and  we  hope  that  we  can  instil  confidence 
in  you,  that  you  will  come  and  confide  in  us.  If  we  expect  to 
share  your  joys,  we  must  expect  to  share  your  sorrows  and  your 
mistakes  and  your  problems. 

Recently  there  appeared  an  article  in  a  popular  magazine  on 
the  subject  of  Mormonism,  and  one  of  the  references  in  that  magazine 
was  to  the  effect  that  the  young  people  of  the  Church  are  sliding  back 
or  slipping  away.  That  I  do  not  believe.  And  in  behalf  of  the  young 
people  of  the  Church,  I  feel  that  I  can  deny  that  statement.  When 
I  hear  young  people  in  the  conferences  bear  their  testimonies,  they 
are  brilliant;  they  are  serious;  and  they  want  to  live  close  to  the 
Lord. 

I  heard  a  great  man  say  a  few  years  ago  when  he  placed  his 
hands  upon  the  head  of  a  bishop  to  bless  him,  that  some  of  the 
choicest  spirits  that  had  ever  been  born  into  the  world  were  the 
young  people  of  the  Church  today.  I  am  sure  the  writer  of  that  article 
would  not  understand  that  we  have  four  thousand  choice  young  men 
and  women  out  in  the  world  today,  paying  their  own  expenses,  gladly, 
to  proclaim  the  gospel  and  share  their  testimony  and  their  faith  with 
those  who  are  less  fortunate.  And  if  it  need  be  and  the  Church  would 
call  upon  volunteers  from  young  men  and  women,  it  could  possibly 
raise  hundreds  of  thousands  of  missionaries  to  go  into  the  world  on 
twenty-four  hours'  notice. 

Oh,  we  realize  that  the  young  people  may  make  mistakes.  Most 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


87 


of  us  have  made  mistakes  in  our  lives.  But  may  we  also  realize  that 
those  same  young  people,  if  they  will  only  stay  close  to  the  Lord,  the 
Lord  will  forgive  his  people  for  mistakes.  I  think  if  a  father  and  a 
mother  are  so  far  away  from  their  young  people  that  their  young 
people  will  not  come  to  them  and  tell  them*  about  their  problems,  then 
there  is  something  wrong  between  father  and  son  and  mother  and 
daughter. 

May  the  young  people  of  this  Church  stay  close  to  their  Father 
in  heaven  and  may  time  prove  that  the  writer  of  that  article,  stating 
that  the  young  people  are  sliding  back,  will  be  disproved  without 
question. 

Stay  Close  to  the  Lord 

I  can  bear  testimony  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church  that  the 
Lord  will  help  you  in  all  of  your  problems,  in  all  of  your  mistakes,  in 
all  of  your  joys  and  satisfactions  if  you  will  only  let  him.  May  we 
humbly  pray  to  the  Lord  and  be  so  diligent  that  we  may  stay  in  close 
communion  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  so  live  that  the  Lord  can 
easily  manifest  himself  unto  us,  so  that  he  can  feel  our  humility  and 
so  that  we  can  feel  his  Spirit,  then  we  can  humbly  say,  "Speak,  Lord, 
for  thy  servant  heareth." 

May  that  be  our  happy  lot.  May  we  truly  love  one  another, 
realizing  that  there  are  thousands  of  men  who  are  less  fortunate  than 
we,  that  we  may  give  of  ourselves  and  our  means  and  our  energy  for 
those  who  are  less  fortunate.  May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  stay 
close  to  him  under  all  conditions,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  need  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  if  the  few  moments  I  occupy  your  time  shall  be  spent  to 
any  profit,  and  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  direct  the  testimony 
which  I  may  offer  to  you  this  afternoon,  for  I  stand  before  you  in  firm 
belief  and  with  the  knowledge  that  we  represent  God  our  Heavenly 
Father;  that  we  are  carrying  on  his  work  in  the  hope  that  we  who  have 
this  responsibility  shall  be  a  blessing  and  a  comfort  to  his  people. 

Pioneer  Standards  and  Ideals 

Since  President  Smith  began  the  conference  by  referring  to  the 
fact  that  this  is  a  centennial  year,  recounting  some  of  the  accomplish- 
ments  of  the  Church  during  the  century  that  has  passed  since  we  ar- 
rived in  this  valley,  I  have  been  thinking  a  little  about  that  myself. 
I  wonder  how  nearly  we  of  this  day  live  the  ideals  and  the  standards 
of  our  grandfathers  and  our  grandmothers  who  came  into  this  valley, 
some   of  whom  moved  on  into  other  parts  of  this  state  and  the  ad- 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  i  '  SeCOnd  Day 

joining  states.  Their  ideals  were  high  and  lofty.  They  had  noble 
purpose  in  coming  here  because  they  had  the  testimony  that  the  gospel 
had  been  restored,  and  they  believed  that  their  life,  though  it  should 
all  be  one  in  sacrifice,  should  be  dedicated  to  the  promulgation  of 
that  great  truth,  and  the  development  of  the  Church  which  has  the 
responsibility  of  carrying  that  into  effect. 

Both  of  my  grandfathers  came  here  at  a  very  early  date  and 
from  here  both  of  them  moved  south  to  St.  George.  I  have  been  read- 
ing a  little  lately  about  St.  George  and  its  development.  Those  people 
carried  in  their  hearts  the  same  ideals,  and  they  undertook  the  same 
problems,  acquitting  themselves  wonderfully  well. 

Founding  of  St.  George 

I  believe  that  St.  George  is  one  of  the  very  few  cities  of  the 
country  which  was  founded  deliberately  with  a  specially  selected 
group  of  men  and  women.  Every  family  that  was  called  to  that  settle- 
ment was  headed  by  a  man  of  some  special  attainment,  and  he  was 
called  for  a  very  special  purpose.  Under  the  wise  direction  that  they 
had,  they  made  a  wonderful  development. 

They  arrived  in  St.  George  in  December,  and  it  was  an  inhos- 
pitable place.  They  were  hardly  located  until  they  began  to  think 
about  public  buildings  for  their  use.  Before  any  of  them  had  homes 
in  which  to  live,  they  began  to  think  of  the  education  of  their  children 
and  the  erection  of  schoolhouses,  and  then  the  next  thought  was  for  a 
suitable  place  in  which  to  worship  God,  so  they  proceeded  to  build  a 
tabernacle.  You  can  realize  that  going  as  they  did  in  the  dead  of 
winter  they  had  no  opportunity  to  raise  crops  to  sustain  themselves, 
and  some  of  them  were  hard  put  to  carry  on.  But  the  Church  realized 
that  and  came  to  their  rescue  in  this  way,  that  they  fostered  the  de- 
velopment of  these  public  buildings  so  that  those  capable  men  would 
have  something  to  do  to  earn  their  way.  Much  of  that  work  was 
done  as  outright  donations  to  the  cause,  but  some  of  it  was  done  in 
the  spirit  of  our  present  welfare  work.  It  was  an  early  illustration  of 
the  purpose  and  program  that  we  are  trying  to  carry  out  today,  and 
it  required  sacrifice,  sacrifice  of  a  high  quality. 

Generosity  Exhibited 

When  I  think  of  it,  I  think  of  the  good  old  brother  who  lived  in 
Washington,  a  few  miles  from  St.  George.  When  the  time  came  to 
put  the  glass  into  the  tabernacle,  I  believe  it  was,  there  was  no  money 
with  which  to  buy  it.  It  had  to  be  procured  in  California.  Men  with 
their  teams  were  ready  to  go  and  get  it.  but  there  was  no  money  avail- 
able, and  this  good  brother  had  recently  received  from  England  a 
thousand  dollars,  and  a  thousand  dollars  in  those  days  was  a  fortune. 
He  slept  on  that  a  night  or  two  and  thought  it  over,  then  one  morning 
he  arose  and  walked  the  distance  from  Washington  City  to  St.  George 
and  put  that  thousand  dollars  into  the  hands  of  the  brethren.  The 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


39 


teams  went  off  to  California  and  brought  back  the  glass  and  other 
supplies  that  were  necessary.  Thus  the  building  was  completed. 

I  wonder  how  many  of  us  today,  if  we  were  faced  with  that  same 
problem,  would  have  the  courage,  with  an  outlook  such  as  he  had, 
to  do  the  thing  he  did.  It  was  a  noble  gesture,  a  wonderful  thing. 
And  why  do  you  think  he  did  it?  Do  you  think  he  had  any  idea  that 
in  making  that  contribution  the  brethren  would  look  at  him  and 
maybe  make  him  a  bishop  or  something  of  that  sort?  Not  in  the 
world.  It  was  sheer  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  that  prompted 
him  to  do  it.  Can  we  do  it  today?  That  was  one  of  the  high  and 
lofty  ideals  of  those  pioneer  grandfathers  of  ours. 

Spirit  of  Independence 

Then  they  had  other  desires  and  other  ideals,  and  one  of  them 
was  that  every  man  among  them  should  sustain  himself  by  his  own 
labor  as  long  as  he  could  and  in  that  spirit  all  the  work  of  the  de- 
velopment of  that  very  difficult  section  was  done.  Many  times  the 
river  had  to  be  conquered.  It  was  conquered  in  that  same  spirit  that 
men  should  provide  for  themselves  the  means  of  their  support,  and 
I  believe  today  that  most  of  them  have  that  same  ideal  down  there, 
the  spirit  of  independence.  I  would  that  every  man  and  woman  in 
this  Church  should  have  deep  in  his  heart  the  pride  in  accomplish- 
ment that  would  force  him  to  sustain  himself  as  long  as  he  has  the 
power  within  him  to  do  it! 

I  grant  you  that  unfortunate  people  must  be  taken  care  of  by 
the  rest  of  us  who  are  more  fortunate,  but  I  still  feel,  as  I  have  said 
before,  that  every  able-bodied  man,  or  a  woman  for  that  matter,  who 
can  sustain  himself  should  do  it  as  long  as  he  has  that  power,  that 
he  may  be  useful  in  his  community. 

In  those  days  when  a  man  said,  "I  will  do  it,"  he  did  it.  That 
was  the  genius  of  the  Church,  that  a  man's  word  was  as  good  as 
his  bond.  In  those  days  we  had  little  cause  for  recourse  to  the  courts 
of  the  land,  because  such  disagreements  as  developed  were  settled 
between  the  brethren  before  the  presiding  officers  of  the  Church. 

Measuring  Up  to  Lofty  Ideals 

Do  we  still  have  that  high  and  lofty  ideal  of  honesty,  of  in- 
tegrity, that  when  we  say,  "We  will,"  it  is  an  accomplished  fact? 
Some  of  us  come  to  feel  that  unless  the  other  man  happens  to  get 
our  signature  to  a  written  document  we  are  not  under  obligation. 
But,  brethren,  a  document  with  a  signature  on  is  just  evidence,  and 
our  word  is  the  thing  that  counts,  and  if  we  would  honor  our  pio- 
neer ancestors,  we  will  live  our  obligations  as  they  did.  We  will  be 
honest;  we  will  be  true;  and  we  will  be  devoted;  we  will  be  generous 
with  what  comes  into  our  hands,  realizing  that  anything  that  we 
may  attain  is  through  the  grace  and  mercy  of  God.  We  will  be 
humble,  and  we  will  realize  that  in  our  hearts  there  is  no  place  for 
pride.    The  proud  man,  in  my  estimation,  is  always  looking  in  the 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

wrong  direction.  He  is  looking  perhaps,  behind  him  at  unfortunate 
people,  but  if  he  looked  before  him  at  his  ideals,  or  at  people  equally 
blessed  or  better,  he  would  find  that  he  is  so  far  behind  what  he  might 
do  that  he  ought  to  be  humble. 

And  if  we  follow  our  grandfathers  we  will  be  prayerful.  That 
is  a  thing  I  think  that  we  ought  to  bear  in  mind  these  days,  for  in 
our  investigations  we  find  that  the  percentage  of  our  priesthood 
bearers  who  are  willing  to  claim  that  they  have  regular  family 
prayers  in  their  households  is  altogether  too  small.  If  we  could 
stimulate  that  thought  as  we  come  among  you,  as  your  servants., 
and  bring  you  just  a  bit  closer  to  God  we  would  feel  that  our  min- 
istry was  a  success. 

Faith  in  Youth 

Now,  like  our  brother  [Thorpe  B.  Isaacson]  who  just  preceded 
me,  I  want  to  express  to  you  that  I  have  faith  also  in  the  young 
people  of  today.  I  have  said  it  to  you  before,  and  I  have  no  reason 
for  changing  it.  I  interview  many  of  your  sons  and  daughters  before 
they  go  into  the  mission  field.  I  feel  their  pulse  and  their  spirit  and 
their  hearts,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  it  is  a  gratifying  thing  indeed 
to  become  acquainted  with  them  before  they  go  into  the  mission 
field  and  then  follow  through  afterwards  and  find  them  out  there, 
far  from  home,  in  the  adverse  conditions  under  which  their  work 
must  be  carried  on,  still  faithful  and  growing  in  power  and  influ- 
ence under  the  Spirit  of  God.  I  have  faith  in  them,  and  I  believe  if 
we  put  our  trust  in  them,  and  if  we  teach  them  properly  that  they 
will  realize  the  standards  of  our  grandfathers,  the  ideals  and  ambi- 
tions that  they  had  in  coming  to  this  far-off  land,  they  will  measure 
up  to  the  expectancy  that  we  have  of  them. 

May  God  grant  that  we  may  realize  these  things  and  that  every 
man  and  woman  shall  go  from  this  conference  with  a  determination 
in  his  heart  that  he  will  magnify  his  calling  and  his  opportunities 
that  he  may  be  worthy  of  the  heritage  that  has  come  to  him  from 
those  pioneers,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

It  may  be  interesting  to  some  of  you  people  to  know  that 
Brother  Ivins  who  has  just  spoken  to  us  has  presided  over  the  Mexi- 
can people  on  the  north  side  of  the  Rio  Grande,  the  Spanish- 
American  Mission.  He  has  also  presided  in  Hawaii.  I  think  it  might 
have  been  interesting  if  I  had  told  you  where  all  the  rest  of  these 
men  had  been,  but  it  did  not  occur  to  me  until  just  now. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now  sing: 

"How  Firm  A  Foundation" — 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  is  conducting.  After  the  singing, 
President  Richard  L.  Evans,  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  will 
speak  to  us.  Richard  L.  Evans  is  probably  better  known — his  voice 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


91 


is  probably  better  known — than  any  man  in  this  part  of  the  world, 
as  he  talks  to  the  world,  at  least  a  large  portion  of  it,  every  Sunday 
from  this  Tabernacle. 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congregation:  "How  Firm  a  Founda- 
tion." 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  always  awed  in  the  presence  of  this  congregation.  I  am 
much  more  accustomed  to  seeing  these  seats  empty  or  only  partially 
filled.  For  eighteen  years  I  have  been  in  this  building  almost  every 
week,  usually  a  number  of  times  each  week. 

I  think  I  have  been  in  this  Tabernacle  at  every  hour  of  the  day 
and  night,  at  one  time  or  another.  I  love  the  spirit  of  it,  and  I  have 
been  well  aware  of  the  memory  and  the  achievements  and  the  spirit 
of  those  generations  of  stalwart  men  and  women  who  have  come 
and  gone  here.  These  walls  speak  great  things  of  the  past,  and  I  am 
as  firmly  convinced  that  they  speak  great  things  of  the  future. 

Brethren  Who  Have  Passed  On 

I  have  been  thinking  as  I  have  been  sitting  here  today  of  those 
of  my  brethren  with  whom  I  have  occupied  these  seats  who  are  not 
now  with  us.  Many  of  them  have  passed  away  during  my  brief 
association  here.  Five  of  my  own  Council  of  seven  men  (including 
the  one  whose  vacancy  I  was  called  to  fill )  have  gone  in  these  years, 
and  a  like  number  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  The  ranks  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric  have  also  been  touched 
by  death  during  these  brief  years. 

Of  course,  no  one  ever  quite  completely  takes  the  place  of  any- 
one else.  But  able  and  good  men  come  along  and  take  their  own  places 
and  make  their  own  contributions  in  their  own  way  in  their  own 
time  and  generation.  I  have  no  fear  of  a  continuing  leadership  in 
this  Church  and  a  continuing  faithful  membership,  and  no  fear  of 
the  faltering  of  the  oncoming  generations,  those  youth  of  ours  who 
have  been  spoken  of  here  already  this  afternoon. 

President  Smith  did  some  reminiscing  in  his  opening  remarks 
of  yesterday  morning,  and  I  would  like  to  continue  for  a  few  mo- 
ments of  thinking  back  and  thinking  ahead  with  a  few  comparative 
figures. 

Growth  of  Church 

It  is  forty-four  years  ago,  this  conference,  I  believe,  since  Presi- 
dent Smith  first  came  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  At 
that  time  the  Church  had  fifty-one  stakes;  it  now  has  one  hundred 
sixty-eight.  There  were  only  three  stakes  then  in  Salt  Lake  County; 
there  are  now  twenty-four  in  Salt  Lake  County. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

Part  of  what  this  means  is  this:  Whereas,  then,  forty-four  years 
ago,  there  were  two  hundred  and  four  stake  conferences  a  year, 
there  are  now  nearly  seven  hundred  of  these  appointmnts  to  be 
filled  by  someone — 672  to  be  exact,  or  468  more  stake  conferences 
to  be  conducted  each  year  than  there  were  forty-four  years  ago. 

There  have  been  nineteen  stakes  come  into  existence  since 
President  Smith  became  President  of  the  Church,  these  past  two 
years  and  more.  This  means  that  seventy-six  stake  conferencs  have 
been  added  to  the  annual  schedule  of  this  Church  in  the  past  two 
years,  since  President  Smith's  administration  began. 

There  were  twenty-one  missions  when  President  Smith  became 
a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  There  are  forty-four  mis- 
sions today,  I  believe  (unless  more  have  been  created  in  the  last 
day  or  two.) 

This  is  no  longer  a  small  Church.  The  latest  religious  census 
that  I  have  seen,  the  one  recently  published  in  the  Christian  Herald, 
and  in  the  Associated  Press,  and  elsewhere,  indicates  that  today 
there  are  only  thirteen  religious  denominations  in  the  United  States 
larger  than  this  one,  out  of  some  two  hundred  fifty.  Only  five,  ex- 
clusive of  the  merging  of  two  churches,  had  a  greater  increase  of 
membership  during  the  most  recent  period  reported,  and  none  of 
the  larger  denominations  had  a  greater  per  capita  increase  of  mem- 
bership. 

Increase  of  Responsibility 

Now  whatever  else  this  may  mean,  it  means  certainly  no  less 
than  this:  that  an  increasing  number  of  people  are  going  to  have 
to  take  increasing  responsibility  in  the  wards  and  stakes  and  mis- 
sions of  this  Church. 

And  it  isn't  only  membership  and  stake  units  that  have  in- 
creased, but  all  of  the  other  problems  and  their  perplexities.  It  isn't 
only  ordinations  and  setting  apart  of  officers,  but  so  many,  many 
administrative  and  personnel  problems  and  all  else  that  pertains  to 
a  worldwide  operation.  Life  is  not  as  simple  as  once  it  was. 

I  see  the  First  Presidency  in  their  offices  at  Church  head- 
quarters early  and  late.  I  see  them  there  over  weekends  and  on 
holidays  when  the  building  is  supposedly  closed.  They  and  their 
associates,  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  their  Assistants,  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  all  the  others 
who  labor  in  this  cause  are  worked  to  the  limit,  I  can  testify  to  you 
of  my  personal  knowledge.  When  they  are  not  in  their  offices  they 
are  traveling  or  filling  other  assignments  and  appointments.  Few, 
indeed,  are  the  days  or  hours  that  they  have  for  themselves  or  for 
their  families.  I  marvel  at  what  they  do;  I  wonder  how  they  do  it. 

And  I  know  that  you  in  the  wards  and  stakes  are  likewise 
crowded  in  your  lives  and  are  accomplishing  beyond  what  men 
ordinarily  are  expected  to  accomplish.  And  it  is  only  with  the  help 
of  the  Lord  that  such  things  are  possible. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


93 


Accepting  Responsibility  in  the  Church 

The  work  wouldn't  need  to  be  so  burdensome  to  anyone,  or  at 
least,  not  to  the  extent  that  it  is,  if  we  had  a  broader  base  of  activity 
— if  everyone  who  held  membership  in  the  Church  were  carrying 
his  full  share  of  the  load. 

I  was  thinking  the  other  night  as  I  witnessed  the  excellent 
Aaronic  Priesthood  pageant  which  was  presented  here,  and  which 
has  been  referred  to  previously  in  this  conference,  that  some  twenty 
percent  of  the  total  priesthood  of  this  Church  are  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  over  twenty-one  years  of  age.  They  are  good 
and  able  men,  and  among  them  is  a  reservoir  of  leadership  and  of 
service  almost  as  yet  untapped. 

There  are  many  other  sources  of  untapped  leadership  and  service 
in  this  Church.  And  I  plead  with  all  of  you,  my  brethren,  who  are 
in  positions  of  responsibility  and  leadership,  in  the  wards  and  stakes 
and  the  missions,  to  put  your  arms  around  these  brethren  and  sisters 
who  are  nominally  members  but  who  ate  not  in  activity  and  bring 
them  into  service  in  this  Church  for  their  own  sakes  and  for  the  good 
of  the  work.  You  will  bring  great  blessings  to  their  lives  as  well 
as  great  blessings  to  the  Church  if  you  do  so. 

Even  if  it  takes  longer  sometimes  to  convince  a  man  that  he 
ought  to  labor  in  an  assignment  than  it  would  take  to  do  the  assign- 
ment yourselves,  it  will  ultimately  bear  richer  fruit  if  you  persuade 
someone  who  is  relatively  inactive  to  render  some  service.  It  is 
better  to  have  three  men  do  one  job  each  than  to  have  one  man  do 
three  jobs.  The  secret  of  the  strength  of  this  Church  (in  addition 
to  what  we  know  to  be  its  foundational  strength,  the  power  and 
authority  and  priesthood  of  God  our  Father),  is  the  activity  of  the 
men  and  women  who  give  their  lives  and  their  means  and  their  de- 
votion and  their  faith  and  works. 


Avoid  Giving  Offense 

Referring  again  to  the  pageant  that  was  presented,  I  recall  that 
one  of  the  reasons  given  why  some  did  not  continue  in  activity  was 
that  they  had  been  offended.  This  is  a  common  cause  of  complaint, 
sometimes  real  and  sometimes  imagined,  sometimes  merely  a  state- 
ment of  convenience.  But  whatever  it  is,  I  plead  with  you  also,  you 
who  are  in  positions  of  leadership  and  who  are  dealing  with  other 
men,  to  avoid,  if  you  can,  giving  cause  for  offense. 

And  I  say  to  you  who  feel  that  you  have  been  offended,  this  isn  t 
sufficient  reason  for  withdrawing  yourself  from  activity  in  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 

I  know  of  no  perfect  men;  I  know  of  no  man  in  whom  others 
could  not  find  fault  if  they  were  looking  for  it.  But  the  imperfections 
of  men  don't  change  facts.  It  doesn't  matter  who  makes  a  mistake, 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  still  true.  And  any  man  who 
withdraws  himself  from  activity  because  he  has  been  offended  or  be- 
cause he  thinks  he  has  (or  because  he  is  afraid  he  is  going  to  be;  is 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

depriving  himself  of  blessings  which  have  nothing  to  do  whatever 
with  the  acts  and  the  imperfections  of  the  men  by  whom  he  may 
think  he  has  been  offended. 

And  I  say  again,  may  we  earnestly  avoid  giving  offense.  I  have 
pleaded  in  a  number  of  the  stakes  where  I  have  been,  and  I  plead 
with  you  here,  that  we  be  as  considerate  of  the  feelings  of  men  when 
we  release  them  from  office  as  we  are  when  we  appoint  them  to  office. 
We  wait  upon  them,  and  we  are  solicitous  and  long-suffering  when 
we  are  seeking  someone  to  take  a  position.  And  then,  I  am  afraid, 
some  of  us  have  sometimes  been  guilty  of  dropping  men  unceremon- 
iously from  office  when  it  seemed  that  for  some  reason  a  change 
would  be  indicated  for  the  good  of  the  work  or  for  the  good  of  the 
man,  or  to  give  someone  else  opportunity. 

I  plead  with  you  to  be  as  considerate  of  your  brethren  when 
you  are  releasing  them  as  you  are  when  you  are  persuading  them  to 
accept  an  office,  or  an  obligation.  This  is  but  one  means  of  avoiding 
giving  offense,  which  has  been  the  real  or  alleged  cause  of  many  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters  withdrawing  themselves  from  activity  in  the 
Church. 

I  see  that  the  time  is  passing  very  rapidly.  It  often  does  so  when 
one  is  speaking.  I  am  not  always  so  sure  it  does  when  one  is  listening. 
But  I  would  like  to  close  with  just  one  other  thought  suggested  by  a 
proverb  recently  recalled  by  Carl  Sandburg:  "This  old  anvil  laughs 
at  many  broken  hammers." 

Confidence  in  Church 

We  do  live  in  a  day  of  much  confusion,  of  much  purpose  and 
counter-purpose,  and  of  many  theories  that  beat  upon  the  anvil,  of 
many  schemes  and  organizations  and  all  manner  of  confused  ideas 
among  men,  in  addition  to  the  fears  and  forebodings  which  are  so 
much  a  part  of  the  daily  lives  of  so  many  of  the  people  of  this  world 
in  this  day.  And  it  is  comforting  to  know  where  the  old  anvil  is,  and 
that  it  is  equal  to  all  of  the  hammers  that  pound  at  it,  and  all  of  the 
blows  that  would  break  it. 

I  have  no  fear  for  the  future  of  this  Church;  I  have  no  fear  for 
the  future  of  anyone  in  this  Church  who  lives  as  well  as  he  knows 
how  to  live.  And  I  pray  my  Father  in  heaven,  with  you,  that  he  will 
help  all  of  us  not  merely  to  be  inheritors  of  the  truth,  nor  possessors  of 
it,  but  also  to  use  it,  to  live  it,  to  proclaim  it,  and  to  be  worthy  of  the 
confidence  of  our  children,  to  be  worthy  of  the  confidence  of  those 
who  look  to  us  for  leadership,  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  our 
Father  in  heaven. 

I  testify  to  you  of  the  conviction  of  my  soul  as  to  the  truthful- 
ness of  those  things  which  are  proclaimed  here,  and  have  been,  and 
which  this  Church  represents,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


95 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  is  an  awe-inspiring  sight  to  stand  here  and  look  into  the  faces 
of  this  vast  audience.  It  is  in  humility  that  I  occupy  this  position  to- 
day. I  pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that  his  Spirit  will  attend  me. 

I  desire  to  direct  my  remarks  this  afternoon  to  the  youth  of 
the  Church.  I,  like  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  previously,  have 
a  strong  faith  and  admiration  and  love  for  the  youth  of  the  Church. 
I  know  that  they  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
that  they  will  carry  on  faithfully. 

Blessings  Provided  for  Youth 

Youth  of  the  Church,  young  men  and  young  women,  you  are 
the  richest  people  in  the  world.  Some  of  you  may  say  in  your  minds 
that  you  have  no  money.  I  care  not  whether  you  have  ten  cents  or 
a  million  dollars.  Money  perishes;  but  the  wealth  that  you  have  sur- 
passes anything  that  you  can  gain  here  in  this  world  which  is  of  the 
world.  You  are  members  of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  are 
recipients  of  the  restored  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior.  You  have 
the  Holy  Priesthood  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God.  You  have  at 
your  command  all  the  blessings  which  come  to  those  who  love  God 
and  keep  his  commandments,  even  the  promise  of  the  blessing  of 
eternal  life  which  he  says  is  the  greatest  gift  that  he  has  for  man 
(D.  &  C.  14:7;  6:7)  if  you  will  but  serve  the  Lord  your  God  with  all 
your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength.  (Ibid.,  4:2;  50:5;  51:19.) 

More  than  a  hundred  years  ago  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
his  Only  Begotten  Son  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
opened  up  the  last  dispensation  of  the  gospel.  Following  this  great 
vision  a  number  of  heavenly  beings  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  bestowed  upon  him  all  the  gifts,  blessings,  powers,  ordi- 
nances, and  priesthood  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  the  human 
family.  It  is  this  priesthood  and  these  gifts  and  blessings  which  the 
youth  of  the  Church  today  possess. 

Gospel  Brings  Joy 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  given  to  us  in  order  that  we 
might  have  joy.  In  fact, 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy.  (II  Nephi  2:  25.) 

It  is  God's  purpose  and  will  that  we  might  be  happy  today,  to- 
morrow, next  week,  a  hundred  years  from  now — yes,  a  million  years 
from  now.  You  may  say  in  your  mind,  "But  we  won't  live  that  long. 
We  will  live  that  long.  Life  is  eternal,  and  the  thing  that  is  important 
to  remember  is  that  the  way  we  live  today,  and  the  way  we  live 
throughout  mortality,  will  determine  our  happiness  throughout  eter- 
nity, will  determine  our  status  forever. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  D«» 

In  order  to  illustrate  what  I  have  in  mind,  I  would  like  to  tell  an 
old  story.  There  was  once  an  old  dog  that  went  to  the  meat  market 
and  secured  a  piece  of  meat.  On  the  road  home  he  had  to  cross  over 
a  bridge  that  spanned  a  stream  of  water.  As  he  reached  the  middle 
of  that  bridge,  he  looked  down  into  the  sparkling  water  and  saw  an- 
other dog  with  a  piece  of  meat  in  his  mouth.  He  became  covetous  and 
decided  that  he  would  have  the  meat  the  other  dog  possessed.  There- 
upon he  opened  his  mouth  and  grabbed  after  that  meat,  and  as  he 
did  so,  his  meat  dropped  into  the  water  and  floated  away.  To  his 
sorrow,  the  old  dog  found  that  he  was  grabbing  after  a  shadow. 

Shadows  of  True  Happiness 

Youth  of  the  Church,  there  are  many  shadows  of  true  happi- 
ness that  you  will  be  tempted  to  grab  after,  and  I  promise  you  that 
if  you  grab  after  them,  you  will  be  like  that  old  dog.  You  will  find 
that  you  have  lost  the  good  things  that  you  now  possess — happiness, 
the  gospel,  and  probably  eternal  life — and  you  will  receive  in  return 
only  a  shadow  of  true  happiness.  The  things  that  I  have  in  mind  we 
call  sins,  all  of  the  sins  that  we  may  commit.  Remember  that  Alma, 
the  ancient  Nephite  prophet,  warned  us  that  "wickedness  never  was 
happiness."  (Alma  41:10;  Helaman  13:38.) 

Tobacco  Habit 

There  are  three  or  four  shadows  of  true  happiness  that  I  would 
like  to  point  out  briefly  today.  The  first  one  of  them  is  the  use  of 
tobacco.  Every  young  man  in  the  Church,  and  I  am  sorry  to  say 
that  today  every  young  woman  in  the  Church  also,  is  tempted  and  will 
continue  to  be  tempted  to  take  up  the  habit  of  tobacco.  In  fact  your 
friends  may  already  have  taken  up  this  habit.  They  may  say  to 
you:  "Come  on,  take  a  smoke.  It's  smart  to  smoke.  It's  being  a 
good  sport  to  smoke.  All  important  people  smoke.  Have  a  good 
time  while  you  are  young,  and  you  can  repent  when  you  get  old." 
In  fact  they  not  only  make  these  remarks  but  also  put  forth  all  sorts 
of  other  arguments  to  induce  you  to  use  tobacco. 

Young  people,  youth  of  the  Church,  it  is  the  devil  that  is  talking 
through  your  friends  to  try  to  induce  you  to  adopt  that  evil  habit. 
He  wants  you  to  be  unhappy.  He  desires  to  tear  down  your  spirit- 
ual, physical,  and  mental  life  and  to  destroy  your  chances  for  a  ful- 
ness of  joy.  For  these  reasons  he  is  putting  forth  his  strongest 
efforts  to  try  to  induce  you  to  take  up  the  tobacco  habit. 

Nicotine  A  Deadly  Poison 

Tobacco,  as  we  all  know,  is  very  poisonous.    It  kills  the  body. 
In  order  to  illustrate  how  deadly  the  poison  is  in  tobacco,  I  would 
ike  to  tell  a  story  that  took  place  in  my  own  family  when  I  was  just 
leaving  my  teens.    I  had  a  sister  who  was  at  that  time  thirty-seven 
years  old.   She  was  the  mother  of  seven  children.    On  this  occasion 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


97 


her  children  had  the  whooping  cough.  She  went  one  day  with  her 
husband  down  to  the  farm,  about  six  or  seven  miles  below  town.  Upon 
arriving  there  her  husband  found  that  he  had  to  drive  a  cow  home; 
and  so  he  brought  my  sister  up  to  a  little  store  about  four  miles  below 
town,  left  her  there,  and  went  back  on  his  horse  to  the  farm.  When 
my  sister  went  into  the  store,  the  lady  back  of  the  counter  asked  her 
how  her  children  were  getting  along  with  the  whooping  cough.  She 
replied,  "Not  very  well."  Then  the  lady  picked  up  from  the  counter 
a  bottle  which  was  about  half  full  of  a  black  substance.  The  label 
on  the  bottle  read,  "Whooping  Cough  Medicine."  The  clerk  said 
to  my  sister,  "This  is  the  best  whooping  cough  medicine  that  I  have 
ever  seen.  I  don't  have  any  in  the  store  right  now,  but  I  can  order 
some  for  you  if  you  wish  me  to."  Then  she  laid  the  bottle  down  and 
went  to  the  telephone  to  call  my  sister's  son  for  the  purpose  of 
having  him  come  down  to  her  store  to  drive  the  car  and  take  his 
mother  home. 

My  sister  picked  up  the  bottle,  pulled  out  the  cork,  smelled  the 
contents  of  the  bottle  and  then  took  a  taste.  She  said,  "My  this  is 
nasty."  Then  she  instantly  fell  over  dead.  The  doctor  was  rushed 
to  the  scene.  Upon  examining  the  contents  of  the  bottle,  he  declared 
it  to  be  straight  nicotine.  He  said  that  nicotine  was  one  of  the 
most  deadly  poisons  that  people  could  take  and  that  the  one  swallow 
that  my  sister  had  taken  had  gone  directly  to  her  brain  and  had 
suddenly  killed  her. 

Young  people,  that  is  the  deadly  poison  that  we  take  into  our 
bodies  when  we  smoke  or  chew  tobacco. 

Tobacco  not  only  kills  the  body,  but  it  kills  the  spirit — it  kills 
spirituality.  It  is  incompatible  for  a  man  holding  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood of  God  to  use  tobacco  and  to  study  the  Bible  or  to  use  tobacco 
and  to  keep  up  his  Church  activities.  Usually  when  he  picks  up 
the  habit  of  tobacco  he  lays  down  the  Holy  Scriptures,  he  decreases 
his  Church  activities,  and  he  becomes  to  a  certain  extent  spiritually 
dead,  which  is  the  worst  death  that  we  can  die. 

God  has  given  us  the  commandment  that  we  should  not  kill. 
Youth  of  the  Church,  when  we  take  poisons  into  our  bodies  know- 
ingly we  are  to  a  certain  extent  breaking  this  great  law. 

The  Drinking  Habit 

Another  shadow  of  true  happiness  which  I  would  like  to  men- 
tion today  is  more  damaging  in  its  effects  than  is  the  habit  of  tobacco. 
It  is  the  habit  of  drinking  liquor.  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill  has  already 
graphically  described  the  bad  effects  of  alcohol  and  so  I  will  be 
very  brief  on  this  subject. 

It  is  my  honest  opinion  that  the  devil  has  never  discovered  or 
invented  a  tool  outside  of  liquor  which  is  more  destructive  to  the 
human  soul.  He  has  no  other  tool  which  can  bring  human  beings 
down  into  misery,  poverty,  and  degradation,  which  can  cause  cor- 
ruption, and  which  can  cause  people  to  commit  all  other  kinds  of 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  4  Second  Day 

sins  more  than  by  having  them  use  liquor.  People  when  they  get 
drunk  are  not  in  their  right  minds.  In  other  words,  they  are  crazy. 
While  under  the  influence  of  liquor,  the  moral  controls  of  men  and 
women  are  relaxed,  and  they  commit  many  sins  that  they  would  not 
otherwise  do,  such  as  adultery  and  murder.  I  know,  youth  of  the 
Church,  that  the  devil  puts  it  into  the  hearts  of  wicked  men  to  give  our 
lovely  girls  liquor  and  get  them  drunk  in  order  that  they  might  rob 
them  of  their  virtue. 

In  referring  to  alcohol,  Robert  G.  Ingersoll  said: 

It  murders  the  soul;  it  is  the  sum  of  all  villainy,  the  father,  of  all  crime, 
the  mother  of  all  abominations,  the  devil's  best  friend,  and  God's  worst 
enemy.  (Editorial,  Church  Section,  Deseret  News,  September  27,  1947.) 

Today  I  call  upon  all  the  youth  of  the  Church  to  make  a  resolu- 
tion that  you  will  never  take  a  smoke.  If  you  already  have  taken 
one,  that  you  will  never  take  another  one.  That  you  will  never  take 
a  drop  of  liquor  in  any  form.  If  you  have  already  done  so,  that 
you  will  repent  and  resolve  today  that  as  long  as  you  live  you  will 
never  take  another  drop  of  liquor.  I  promise  you  that  if  you  will 
make  this  resolution  and  never  break  it  that  you  will  be  happy 
throughout  this  life  and  throughout  eternity,  because  you  have  kept 
your  bodies  clean. 

Sex  Immorality 

A  third  shadow  of  true  happiness  I  would  like  to  point  out  is 
even  worse  than  the  other  two.  It  is  sex  immorality.  I  firmly  be- 
lieve that  there  is  no  sin  that  human  beings  commit  that  causes  a 
loss  of  happiness,  that  causes  the  people  to  be  degraded  more  com- 
pletely, that  breaks  up  homes  more  thoroughly,  that  ruins  love  more 
permanently,  that  drives  out  the  Spirit  of  God  and  causes  apostasy 
from  the  true  Church  more  definitely  than  does  the  sin  of  sex  im- 
morality. 

All  the  way  through  history  the  prophets  of  God  have  taught 
the  value  of  virtue.  In  fact,  you  and  I  can  still  hear  the  voice  of 
God  crying  down  from  Mt.  Sinai  to  Moses, 

Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery.   (Exodus  20:14.) 

Alma,  the  great  Nephite  prophet,  told  his  son,  Corianton,  who 
had  had  an  illicit  association  with  the  harlot  Isabel,  the  following: 

Know  ye  not,  my  son,  that  these  things  are  an  abomination  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord;  yea,  most  abominable  above  all  sins  save  it  be  the 
shedding  of  innocent  blood  or  denying  the  Holy  Ghost?  (Alma  39:5.) 

The  prophets  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
the  Presidents  of  the  Church  from  the  beginning  down  to  the  present 
time,  have  declared  that  our  virtue  is  as  valuable  to  us  as  is  our 
life,  and  we  should  guard  our  virtue  with  our  life. 

More  than  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Lord  revealed  the  following 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


9Q 


And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  as  I  have  said  before,  he  that  looketh 
on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her,  or  if  any  shall  commit  adultery  in  their 
hearts,  they  shall  not  have  the  Spirit,  but  shall  deny  the  faith  and  shall 
rear. 

Wherefore,  I,  the  Lord,  have  said  that  the  fearful,  and  the  unbelieving 
and  all  liars,  and  whosoever  loveth  and  maketh  a  lie,  and  the  whore- 
monger, and  the  sorcerer,  shall  have  their  part  in  that  lake  which  burnetii 
with  fire  and  brimstone,  which  is  the  second  death. 

Verily  I  say,  that  they  shall  not  have  part  in  the  first  resurrection. 

But  unto  him  that  keepth  my  commandments  I  will  give  the  mysteries 
of  my  kingdom,  and  the  same  shall  be  in  him  a  well  of  living  water,  spring- 
ing  up  unto  everlasting  life.  (D.  &  C.  63:16-18,  23.) 

Bodies  Are  Temples  of  God 

Youth  of  the  Church,  again  I  call  upon  you  to  make  a  resolution 
that  you  will  keep  your  bodies  clean  and  pure  in  every  respect. 
Obey  all  the  words  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God, 
living  all  the  principles  of  the  gospel  to  the  best  of  your  ability  in 
order  that  you  might  be  happy.  Do  these  things  in  order  that  you 
might  have  that  joy  which  God  wishes  you  to  have.  Remember  at 
all  times  that  your  bodies  are  temples  of  God,  as  Paul,  the  ancient 
apostle,  has  said: 

Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit 
of  God  dwelleth  in  you? 

If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the 
temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are.  (I  Corinthians  3:16,  17.) 

If  we  will  do  all  these  things  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  most  of  the  youth  of  the  Church 
in  due  time  will  have  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  house  of  the  Lord 
with  the  one  of  his  or  her  choice  and  there  be  married  not  only  for  life 
but  also  for  all  eternity,  and  the  children  which  are  born  under 
that  covenant  shall  be  theirs  forever.  These  blessings,  however, 
are  predicated  on  a  continuance  of  righteous  living. 

Blessings  Promised  to  Righteous 

When  the  great  judgment  day  comes,  and  when  all  men  and 
women  who  have  been  true  and  faithful  in  all  things  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  Jesus  the  Christ 
to  give  an  account  of  their  actions,  words,  and  thoughts,  while  in 
mortality,  it  shall  be  said  unto  them, 

Well  done  my  beloved  servants,  enter  ye  into  your  exaltation.  Receive 
your  life  eternal. 

And  at  that  day  this  great  scripture  which  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  shall  be  fulfilled: 

.  .  .  and  they  shall  pass  by  the  angels,  and  the  gods,  which  are  set 
there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in  all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon 
their  heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a  fulness  and  a  continuation  of  the  seeds 
forever  and  ever.  [And  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that  promise  meant 
to  have  the  power  to  beget  spirit  children.] 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Day 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they  have  no  end;  therefore  shall 
they  be  from  everlasting  to  everlasting,  because  they  continue;  then  shall 
they  be  above  all,  because  all  things  are  subject  unto  them.  Then  shall 
they  be  gods,  because  they  have  all  power,  and  the  angels  are  subject  unto 
them. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except  ye  abide  my  law  ye  cannot 
attain  to  this  glory. 

For  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  the  way  that  leadeth  unto  the  exalta- 
tion and  continuation  of  the  lives,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it,  because 
ye  receive  me  not  in  the  world  neither  do  ye  know  me.  (D.  6  C.  132:19-22.) 

This  is  life  eternal,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  This  is  the  exalta- 
tion which  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  promises  those  who  love  God 
and  keep  his  commandments. 

I  humbly  pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that  he  will  bless  the 
youth  of  the  Church  that  they  might  live  clean  and  pure  in  every 
way,  walking  righteously  and  undefiled  before  God,  that  they  might 
receive  this  great  exaltation  of  life  eternal,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Lest  I  forget,  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  there  is  a 
beautiful  monument  now  placed  on  the  north  side  of  the  Tabernacle, 
the  monument  portraying  the  coming  of  the  Handcart  companies. 

When  conference  commenced  I  referred  to  the  fact  that  we 
had  a  distinguished  visitor  with  us  who  is  a  grandson  of  Thomas 
L.  Kane.  I  stand  here  to  say  that  I  know  of  no  one  man  who  more 
willingly  gave  of  himself  and  his  means  for  the  blessing  and  the 
preservation  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  than  did  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane.  About  ninety 
years  ago  when  Johnston's  army  was  on  its  way  here  for  the  avowed 
purpose  of  driving  our  people  again,  that  great  man,  for  he  was  a 
great  man,  without  any  encouragement,  so  far  as  I  know,  from  the 
membership  of  the  Church,  made  a  long  trip  and  came  to  this  country 
and  was  the  means  of  holding  back  the  army  until  the  falsehoods 
that  had  been  circulated  about  the  Church  had  been  made  known, 
and  our  people  were  not  compelled  again  to  take  to  the  wilderness. 

Brother  Frank  Evans,  who  for  many  years  has  been  prominent 
among  us  in  various  capacities — the  President  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  at  one  time — I  think  is  as  familiar  with  the  story  of  Thomas 
L.  Kane  as  any  of  us,  and  after  ninety  years  I  felt  it  would  be  an 
appropriate  thing  to  have  portrayed  before  us  by  Brother  Evans 
the  life  of  that  great  and  good  man  whose  grandson  is  visiting  with 
us  at  the  present  time.   I  hope  he  feels  that  he  is  more  than  welcome. 

Brother  Frank  Evans. 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


101 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  sure  you  appreciate  the 
difficulty  of  speaking  extemporaneously  and  without  previous  notice, 
on  matters  of  history,  and  particularly  so  when  they  center  about 
and  reflect  the  personality  of  a  man  whose  reputation  we  hold  in 
the  very  highest  esteem  and  toward  whom  we  feel  the  deepest  debt 
of  gratitude.  I  am  reassured,  however,  when  I  look  at  faces  that  I 
recognize,  for  I  am  sensitive  to  your  kindness,  good  will,  and  your 
spirit  of  charity.  I  never  stop  to  question  the  advisability  of  call- 
ing on  people  without  previous  notice.  I  have  no  criticism  of  it  at 
all.  I  think  it  must  be  right  because  the  brethren  so  often  do  it. 
I  am  very  grateful  for  this  opportunity  and  pray  that  I  shall  be  true 
to  the  facts  as  far  as  I  can  recall  them. 

In  the  early  years  of  the  Church,  in  what  was  called  the 
"Eastern  Section,"  a  young  man  who  had  had  some  contact  with 
the  heads  of  the  Church  and  whose  devotion  to  the  Cause  was  well 
known,  was  given  an  assignment  to  go  to  Washington  to  discharge 
some  important  duties.  It  was  the  year  1846.  He  was  not  a  man 
of  great  experience,  but  evidently  a  man  of  courage.  He  had  gone 
to  Washington,  and  during  an  interim  in  which  he  was  waiting  for 
the  consummation  of  some  appointments  with  Federal  officials,  he 
decided  to  magnify  the  time  and  go  to  Philadelphia  where  there 
was  a  Branch  of  the  Church  and  quite  a  large  number  of  Saints, 
and  to  hold  meetings  there. 

At  the  same  time,  there  was  in  that  city  a  young  man — 24  years 
of  age — a  Philadelphian,  a  man  the  like  of  whom  this  missionary 
had,  perhaps,  never  met.  He  was  well  educated.  His  background 
was  unusual.  His  was  a  family  of  culture,  of  refinement,  and  of 
achievement.  He  had  a  brother,  Elisha,  who  in  later  years  won 
distinction  by  northern  explorations.  This  young  man  had  been 
graduated  as  a  lawyer  and  was  a  member  of  the  Bar.  He  was  slight 
of  build,  frail  of  body,  brilliant  of  mind.  It  is  reported  by  rela- 
tives of  these  brothers  that  doctors  had  at  times  despaired  of  their 
ever  reaching  advanced  age. 

As  this  young  Philadelphian  approached  a  hall  in  which  a 
Mormon  meeting  was  being  held,  he  heard  a  voice,  and  perhaps 
attracted  by  its  very  earnestness,  he  took  a  place  in  the  congre- 
gation and  listened  to  a  sermon  delivered  by  the  missionary  of 
whom  I  speak.  I  think  it  must  have  been  an  hour  in  length.  At  the 
close  of  the  meeting  the  young  man  walked  up  and  introduced  him- 
self as  Thomas  L.  Kane.  In  response  the  missionary  said,  I  am 
Jesse  C.  Little."  "Mr.  Little,"  said  he,  "would  you  have  an  ap- 
pointment with  me  this  evening  at  my  father's  home?"  His  father 
was  Judge  John  K.  Kane  of  the  Federal  Court  of  the  Eastern  Dis- 
trict of  Pennsylvania.  Of  course  the  invitation  was  accepted,  and 
it  is  related  that  their  conversation  extended  over  a  long  period. 
At  its  conclusion,  another  meeting  was  arranged  and  the  discus- 
sion was  continued. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  A  Second  Da* 

It  appears  that  the  talk  was  mainly  about  the  condition  of  the 
Church  in  Nauvoo  at  that  time,  for  the  Saints  were  just  then  being 
driven  from  their  homes,  and  even  those  least  informed,  those  who 
read  the  dispatches  at  all,  knew  of  the  indignities  that  were  being 
heaped  upon  these  people.  These  were  the  things  that  appealed  to 
the  compassionate  nature  of  Thomas  L.  Kane.  And,  examining  his 
background,  his  ancestry,  we  find  that  he  was  only  responding 
as  it  was  the  custom  of  the  Kanes  to  respond  in  times  of  need. 

A  few  days  passed  and  these  two  young  men  were  in  Wash- 
ington. Mr.  Kane  was  well  acquainted  there,  partly  through  his 
father,  partly  on  his  own  account.  He  introduced  Jesse  C.  Little 
to  members  of  the  Cabinet  and  to  the  Vice-President,  the  messages 
were  effectively  delivered,  and  the  assignment  given  to  Little  car- 
ried out,  and  within  a  short  time  the  two  were  making  their  way 
toward  the  West. 

Not  long  thereafter  Thomas  L.  Kane  looked  upon  the  City  of 
Nauvoo  for  the  first  time.  In  later  years  he  described  it  as  a  most 
beautiful,  an  entrancing  sight  as  he  saw  it  from  the  Iowa  side  of 
the  river.  After  noting  the  homes,  his  eyes  wandered  to  the  heights 
upon  which  the  temple  stood,  and  he  described  how  the  building 
with  its  spire  of  white  and  gold  shown  in  the  sunlight.  He  crossed 
the  river,  went  into  the  city,  looked  into  a  blacksmith  shop  with 
the  forge  lately  warm,  but  no  one  there;  the  carpenter  shop  with 
shavings  upon  the  lathe,  but  no  workman  to  be  found;  noticed  the 
beautiful  gardens  in  a  perfect  state  of  preservation,  flowers,  shrubs, 
but  no  one  attending  them.  He  made  his  way  to  the  temple  and 
was  met  by  ruffians  who  challenged  him  and  demanded  to  know 
what  right  he  had  there.  Their  suspicions  allayed,  they  invited 
him  to  come  into  the  temple  and  displayed  to  him  how  they  had 
befouled  it  and  dishonored  it,  and  gloated  over  the  fact.  One  can 
imagine  how  that  sensitive,  appreciative  personality  recoiled  at  these 
indignities. 

Before  long  he  was  following  the  path  that  had  been  broken 
by  the  fleeing  Saints  towards  the  Missouri.  Overtaking  them,  he 
found  them  suffering  and  ill.  He  gave  them  succor  and  put  forth 
his  utmost  efforts  to  relieve  their  misery. 

While  Thomas  L.  Kane  was  with  the  Saints  at  the  camp  of 
Israel,  he  fell  ill.  He  was  nursed  to  health  by  the  good  women  and 
men,  and  there  he  was  given  a  blessing  by  Father  John  Smith, 
great-grandfather  of  President  George  Albert  Smith.  Just  a  phrase 
or  two  from  that.  Knowing  as  we  now  do  the  hazards  that  the 
chosen  course  of  this  young  man  would  probably  bring  upon  him, 
the  assurances  given  him  are  significant:  "Not  an  hair  of  thine 
head  shall  ever  fall  by  the  hand  of  an  enemy."  And  another: 
Thou  art  appointed  to  do  a  great  work  on  the  earth,"  and  if  you 
remain  true  to  your  course  in  behalf  of  this  people  (or  words  to 
that  effect)  "thy  name  shall  be  had  in  honorable  remembrance 
among  the  Saints  to  all  generations." 

Let  us  go  on  now,  just  passing  to  say  that  during  the  inter- 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


103 


vening  years  until  the  event  occurred  of  which  I  shall  briefly  speak, 
he  gave  constant  attention  evidently  to  the  exclusion  of  every- 
thing else,  to  the  welfare  of  this  people.  Nearly  twelve  years  later, 
when  all  the  evil  forces  seemed  to  concentrate  against  the  Saints, 
it  was  learned  that  United  States  troops  were  moving  toward  this 
valley.  When  Thomas  L.  Kane  learned  of  this  impending  threat, 
he  was  impelled  to  do  something  about  it. 

And,  by  the  way,  it  was  on  the  24th  of  July,  1857,  while  the 
Saints  were  celebrating  in  the  mountains  to  the  east  of  us  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  arrival  of  the  Pioneers  in  Salt  Lake  Valley,  that 
Brigham  Young  and  his  associates  were  advised,  by  three  mes- 
sengers, of  this  new  danger.  President  Young  very  quietly  with- 
drew, returned  to  the  city,  and  then  announced  the  situation  to  the 
people — that  the  United  States  Army  was  practically  upon  our 
borders. 

But  winter  came  on — a  very  cold  and  severe  winter — and 
Thomas  L.  Kane,  upon  his  own  initiative  but  with  an  apparent 
conviction  in  his  heart  that  he  could  do  something  about  it,  with 
no  portfolio,  but  as  a  private  citizen  in  the  confidence  of  the  ad- 
ministration, made  his  way  to  this  valley.  He  knew  of  but  one 
way  to  reach  it  in  time  and  that  was  to  cross  Panama,  sail  up  the 
Pacific  upon  an  itinerant  steamer,  and  then  overland  to  Salt  Lake 
City.  At  San  Bernardino  he  met  some  Mormon  friends  who  helped 
to  outfit  him  there,  and  by  traveling  night  and  day,  he  soon  reached 
the  Valley. 

He  wrote  from  Las  Vegas  to  Brigham  Young:  "The  date  of 
my  letter  will  apprise  you  of  my  journey  hither.  That  I  have  made  it  in 
six  weeks  from  New  York  may  persuade  you  that  I  am  on  no  fool's 
errand";  and  a  few  days  later  to  Governor  Young,  "Your  friend 
of  old  time  is  now  within  an  hour  of  your  dwelling  where  he  asks 
for  an  interview  which  he  has  traveled  so  far  to  seek."  Snow  was 
falling  heavily,  so  that  from  five  to  twenty-five  feet  lay  in  these 
canyons  between  this  valley  and  the  army. 

Fatigued,  he  came  into  the  presence  of  the  First  Presidency 
and  their  associates,  and  sank  into  a  chair.  The  frail  body  had 
given  out.  Evidently  he  was  under  the  impression  that  he  might 
not  survive  for  he  asked  for  a  private  interview  with  President 
Young  and  they  retired  to  a  small  room.  They  soon  emerged  but 
did  not  disclose  what  had  been  said.  President  Young  said: 
"Friend  Thomas,  the  Lord  has  sent  you  here  and  He  will  not  let 
you  die.  No,  you  cannot  die  till  your  work  is  done.  I  want  to 
have  your  name  live  with  the  Saints  to  all  eternity.  You  have 
done  a  great  work  and  you  will  do  a  greater  work  still." 

He  came  on  an  errand  of — I  hardly  know  what  to  call  it.  I 
think  of  it  as  a  perilous  journey — I  think  of  it  as  a  response  to  a 
great  "call."  He  came  against  the  warnings  of  his  friends  in  Wash- 
ington. The  President  of  the  United  States,  who  was  his  friend, 
expressed  concern.  He  came  against  the  forebodings  of  his  be- 
loved father.    So  you  see  the  seriousness  of  it.    Judge  Kane  gave 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  Daf 

him  a  farewell  assurance  that  "the  home  welcome  in  all  its  cordiality 
awaits  you,  whether  you  fail  or  succeed.  God  bless  you,  dear  Tom." 
And,  sad  to  relate,  his  father  passed  away  before  his  son  had  left 
this  Valley. 

The  Colonel  remained  here  a  few  days  and  then,  practically 
alone,  made  his  way  to  the  army.  Trails  were  sufficiently  broken 
so  that  he  could  get  through.  He  went  at  once  to  the  civil  author- 
ity, Governor  Cumming.  Therein  was  wisdom.  He  related  his 
story  to  Governor  Cumming  who  apparently  received  it  with 
sympathy.  Col.  Kane  then  sent  word  to  Col.  Johnston  that  he 
had  arrived  in  the  camp.  I  hesitate  to  tell  you  the  distressing  things 
that  happened  right  there  because  it  is  a  note  of  so  much  distress 
that  I  will  pass  it  by  and  simply  say  that  after  a  very  desperate 
situation  had  been  cleared  up,  the  two  men  came  to  an  understand- 
ing to  the  effect  that  Col.  Kane  should  come  down  Echo  Canyon 
and  into  this  valley  accompanied  by  Governor  Cumming  (who  was 
to  succeed  Governor  Young)  unattended.  That  was  the  point — 
no  military  escort.  And  by  that  time,  through  the  efforts  of  Col. 
Kane,  the  policy  of  the  government  toward  the  whole  question  had 
focused  upon  this  point:  An  order  to  the  army  to  pass  through 
this  valley  and  disturb  and  interfere  with  no  one,  and  to  go  at  least 
forty  miles  distant,  southwest,  and  there  await  further  orders. 

One  writer  has  called  this  incident,  the  work  of  Col.  Kane, 
the  most  brilliant  episode  in  American  history! 

I  shall  hurry  on.  May  I  be  pardoned  if  I  take  a  few  more  min- 
utes? While  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  I  received  a  brief  let- 
ter from  President  David  O.  McKay  with  a  lengthy  letter  attached 
written  by  a  man  in  Australia  who  had,  many  years  before,  served 
as  a  missionary  in  the  Eastern  States.  He  told  a  very  interesting 
story  concerning  a  manuscript  in  the  possession  of  the  Kane  family 
in  western  Pennsylvania — descendants  of  Thomas  L.  Kane.  I 
read  his  story  with  conviction.  The  letter  of  President  McKay 
said,  "Treat  this  as  you  see  fit,"  and  I  felt  at  once  that  it  was  of 
importance  and  that  I  could  secure  the  manuscript.  I  started  the 
next  morning  for  Erie,  Pennsylvania,  because  I  supposed  that  would 
be  near  the  point  of  interest.  In  my  search,  I  interviewed  many  of 
the  Kane  family,  and  finally  I  stopped  at  a  house  to  inquire  for  a 
certain  home  to  which  I  had  been  directed,  and  there  stood  in  the 
open  doorway  a  man  dressed  in  outing  clothes.  He  beckoned  me  in, 
and  coming  down  the  path  to  meet  me,  gave  me  such  a  warm  wel- 
come that  I  received  the  impression  he  must  have  known  me.  In 
fact,  he  soon  had  all  the  occupants  of  the  car  in  his  home,  and  there 
he  pointed  out  to  me  a  typed  document  on  the  table  and  told  me 
that  was  the  manuscript  I  was  seeking. 

This  was  Mr.  E.  Kent  Kane,  who  is  with  us  today,  a  man  of 
very  refined  character,  a  man  of  distinction.  He  served  in  the 
Pennsylvania  legislature  six  years.  He  is  a  man  of  large  enter- 
prises, and  a  man,  I  have  come  to  believe,  of  deep  religious  con- 
victions.   It  has  been  our  great  pleasure  to  have  Mr.  Kane  with  us. 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


105 


He  has  attended  every  session  of  this  conference.  As  indicating 
one  phase  of  Mr.  Kane's  abilities  and  thought,  I  have  a  few  lines 
here — I  trust  he  will  pardon  me  if  I  read  them.  He  sat  down  and 
wrote  this  out  in  ten  minutes  when  he  was  here  on  a  previous  visit. 
He  makes  reference  to  Brigham  Young,  appropriately,  for  we  were 
close  to  the  hundred  year  mark  when  he  wrote  it  and  the  reference 
he  makes  to  him  is  sort  of  an  appeal  which  I  am  sure,  from  his 
comments,  has  been  satisfied  in  his  mind,  because  of  the  esteem  in 
which  he  holds  the  successors  of  President  Young: 

LET  PLENTY  NOT  BETRAY  US,  LORD 

"Lord,  behold  our  teeming  thousands, 

Where  once  a  few  by  Thee  were  led. 
Lord,  behold  all  peace  around  us, 

Where  once  Thy  people  bled. 
Lord,  behold  our  fertile  farm  land, 

Desert  once,  untouched  by  plough. 
Lest  Thy  bounty  now  confound  us, 

Forget  not,  Lord,  Thy  people  now. 

Lord,  once  Thou  forged  for  us  our  leaders, 

Tempered  them  with  trial  and  storm. 
Zion's  Lebanon  had  cedars 

Shaped  by  Thee  in  Thine  own  form. 
Now  we  yield  to  wealth's  temptation, 

Sell  our  all  for  golden  fraud, 
'Twere  better  that  we  marched  to  exile 

Than  forget  that  Thou  art  God. 

Lord,  in  each  new  generation, 

Give  us  men  like  those  of  old, 
Give  Thy  people  another  Brigham, 

Guide  us,  keep  us,  in  Thy  fold. 
When  we  part  from  those  who  lead  us, 

When  their  last  mission  they  fulfill, 
Thou  who  sent  Thy  Son  to  save, 

Lord,  be  with  Thy  people  still." 

I  give  you  what  I  have  said  as  a  very  brief  and  very  inadequate 
introduction  to  our  friend  who  is  visiting  with  us,  Mr.  E.  Kent  Kane. 
I  should  like  to  say  more  about  him  but  I  am  sure  that  you  will 
hear  on  other  occasions  more  about  this  grandson  of  our  early 
friend,  Thomas  L.  Kane. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  have  been  edified  by 
this  very  brief  narration  of  experiences.  I  thought  that  inasmuch 
as  so  many  of  you  have  known  of  our  appreciation  of  Colonel  Kane 
and  the  work  that  he  performed  when  we  needed  a  friend,  a  few 
more  words  of  explanation  and  information  would  make  you  that 
much  happier.  I  am  sure  that  we  are  delighted  to  have  his  grandson 
with  us  and  to  hear  also  that  he  was  looking  for  a  servant  of  the 
Lord  when  he  was  hunting  for  that  record  book  in  Pennsylvania. 
I  hope  that  our  brother  will  enjoy  his  visit  with  us  here,  and  I  hope 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  4  Second  D** 

that  he  will  feel  that  he  is  in  the  home  of  his  friends.  Personally, 
I  feel  that  he  is  just  like  one  of  the  family,  because  of  the  affection 
that  existed  between  his  grandfather  and  my  grandfather. 

The  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Fierce 
Was  the  Wild  Billow'*— (Noble) . 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Albert  F. 
Anderson  of  the  St.  Johns  Stake,  St.  Johns,  Arizona. 

After  the  closing  of  this  session,  we  shall  stand  adjourned  until 
seven  o'clock  this  evening,  when,  in  accordance  with  the  custom 
of  the  Church,  the  general  meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church 
will  be  held.  Only  the  Priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present.  Per- 
sons not  holding  the  priesthood  will  kindly  refrain  from  attempting 
to  enter  the  building.  That  session  will  not  be  broadcast.  The 
session  at  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  Sunday,  October  5,  1947, 
will  be  broadcast  just  the  same  as  it  has  been  today. 

Because  the  Tabernacle  broadcast  comes  now  from  9:30  to 
10:00  tomorrow  morning,  those  desiring  to  attend  the  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15  a.m.  As  the  Choir  may  be  rehearsing 
during  the  time  the  audience  is  gathering,  it  is  necessary  to  request 
that  the  audience  come  in  and  take  their  seats  quietly  and  refrain 
from  making  any  disturbing  noise  of  any  kind  during  the  broadcast. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on  which  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen,  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker,  will 
begin  at  8:00  a.m.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must 
be  in  their  seats  by  7:45  a.m. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  ch  oir  singing  for  this  day's  sessions  of  the  Conference  has 
been  by  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

By  the  way,  I  think  we  all  have  reason  to  be  grateful  for  this 
wonderful  organization  who  are  just  in  the  "pink  of  condition"  to 
go  on  a  vacation  within  a  few  days  to  San  Bernardino,  California 
and  celebrate  with  them  the  100th  Anniversary  of  the  entrance  into 
that  country  of  the  Mormon  pioneers.  The  members  of  the  Choir 
have  done  a  fine  piece  of  work  today  as  always,  and  I  hope  and 
pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  will  continue  with  them  and  while 
they  are  away  that  they  will  have  one  of  the  best  experiences  of 
their  lives  and  return  in  safety  glad  that  they  belong  to  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Fierce  Was  the  Wild  Billow." 
President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Requests  have  come  for  us  to  remember  people  in  the  prayers 
of  the  Conference.  It  will  not  be  possible  to  name  them,  but  our 
brother  who  offers  the  prayer  will  include  those  who  have  asked 
to  be  prayed  for.  The  closing  prayer  will  now  be  offered  by 
President  Albert  F.  Anderson  of  the  St.  Johns  Stake,  St.  Tohns 
Arizona. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  107 

Elder  Albert  F.  Anderson,  President  of  the  St.  Johns  Stake,  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morninq,  October 
5,  1947. 

THIRD  DAY 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  program  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
October  5,  at  8:00  over  Radio  Station  KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  the  service.  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  organ.    Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

The  service  commenced  by  the  Choir  singing  the  hymn,  "For  the 
Strength  of  the  Hills  We  Bless  Thee,  our  God,  our  Father's  God," 
( Stephens ) . 

Following  the  rendition  of  this  hymn,  the  Choir  sang:  "I'm 
a  Pilgrim"  (Robertson). 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  the  midst  of  the  continuing  international  crisis,  there  is  an 
ever  growing  feeling  that  America  must  do  all  within  her  power  to 
preserve  herself.  Our  leading  statesmen  have  publicly  declared 
that  we  can  hope  to  survive  as  a  free  people  only  if  we  keep  our- 
selves strong.  Generally  the  references  to  maintaining  the  strength 
of  our  country  pertain  only  to  her  military  might.  But  the  strength 
of  America  cannot  be  measured  by  her  armaments  alone,  nor  by  her 
industrial  power  which  produces  those  armaments.  The  strength 
of  our  land  must  be  measured  principally  in  the  integrity  of  our 
people. 

An  America  with  powerful  armaments  and  an  unstable  citizenry 
could  not  be  sure  of  protection.  The  might  of  the  Maginot  Line 
was  no  defense  for  a  France  which  had  descended  into  moral  weak- 
ness, America,  under  similar  circumstances,  would  fare  no  better. 
Not  even  the  atom  bomb  will  save  this  land  if  moral  decay  is  al- 
lowed to  do  its  work. 

Freedom  of  Righteousness 

We  often  speak  of  our  freedoms.  There  is  no  freedom  like 
the  freedom  of  righteousness.  The  penalty  of  sin  is  slavery  and 
death.    He  who  is  the  victim  of  his  own  evil  conduct  is  in  reality 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  fhUd  0a^ 

much  more  a  slave  than  the  cowering  subjects  of  the  most  dicta- 
torial despot. 

If  America  would  remain  mighty,  she  must  have  the  strength 
of  sobriety,  of  chastity  and  virtue,  of  honesty  and  integrity,  and  the 
power  of  true  spirituality.  If  she  would  be  strong,  America  must 
enjoy — in  addition  to  her  political  freedoms,  indeed  one  might  say, 
as  a  condition  to  the  perpetuation  of  her  political  freedoms — those 
other  freedoms  which  are  as  essential  to  her  welfare  as  any  of  the 
liberties  listed  in  the  Bill  of  Rights.   Her  people  must  strive  for: 

Freedom  from  unclean  practices  and  unwholesome  influences 
Freedom  from  immorality 
Freedom  from  intoxication 
Freedom  from  the  evils  of  divorce 

Freedom  from  dishonesty  in  all  their  relations  with  each  other,  includ- 
ing business  and  labor 

Freedom  from  delinquency,  juvenile  or  adult,  with  its  accompanying 
list  of  crime 

Freedom  from  selfishness 

Freedom  from  internal  dissensions,  subversive  activities,  rabble  rous- 
ing, and  class  hatred 

Freedom  from  idleness,  and  doctrines  which  persuade  people  that  the 
government  owes  them  a  living,  or  that  they  can  get  more  and  more  by 
doing  less  and  less 

And  freedom  from  the  ignorance  that  so  often  leads  to  regrettable  prac- 
tices 

Factors  Weakening  America 

How  far  have  we  gone  in  the  preservation  of  these  freedoms? 
To  what  extent  have  we  jeopardized  these  factors  which  are  so 
essential  to  a  strong  nation? 

For  one  thing,  as  a  people  we  are  afflicted  with  an  element  of 
violence  and  dishonesty  which  is  sapping  our  strength.  Every  five 
minutes,  during  1946,  according  to  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investi- 
gation, a  serious  crime  was  committed  among  us.  There  was  one 
for  every  seventy-eight  persons  in  the  general  population. 

During  that  same  year  Americans  spent  twice  as  much  money 
for  alcoholic  beverages  as  they  did  for  education,  and  this  year  they 
will  spend  a  comparable  amount.   Does  this  tend  to  national  strength? 

Also  in  1 946  there  were  twenty-seven  divorces  for  every  one  hun- 
dred marriages  in  the  United  States.  The  disruption  of  so  many 
homes  in  every  state  of  the  Union  can  have  none  other  than  a 
weakening  effect  upon  our  nation.  If  we  may  trust  the  statements 
of  courts  dealing  with  domestic  relations,  infidelity  was  a  contribut- 
ing factor  in  a  disquieting  number  of  these  instances.  Any  tendency 
on  the  part  of  Americans  to  regard  lightly  their  marriage  vows  is 
destructive  of  the  moral  stability  of  the  nation.  Indiscretions  aris- 
ing out  of  marital  disloyalty  lead  to  broken  homes  and  broken 
heaxts  and  in  some  cases  to  lives  of  shame  and  disgrace.  Further- 
more, they  promote  delinquency  among  children  who  thus  become 
the  victims  of  the  sins  of  their  own  parents,  being  influenced  by 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


109 


examples  set  before  them  by  their  elders  who  underestimate  the 
great  value  and  strength  of  virtue. 

Among  Latter-day  Saint  people,  whom  I  have  the  honor  to 
represent  today,  we  teach  a  precept  given  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  which  reads: 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all  thy  heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto  her 
and  none  else.    (D.  &  C.  42:22.) 

What  a  boon  it  would  be  to  all  humanity  if  every  man  were 
moved  by  the  spirit  of  this  injunction. 

Influence  of  Home  Life 

The  strength  of  the  nation  is  measured  in  a  large  degree  by  the 
home  life  of  the  individual  citizens.  What  makes  a  home  strong? 
It  is  character,  and  good  character  mean  integrity,  honesty,  morality, 
the  spirit  of  fair  play,  self-reliance,  and  an  abiding  faith  in  God. 
As  we  speak  of  the  great  men  in  history,  we  frequently  refer  to 
their  home  life,  with  a  fireside  about  which  the  family  met,  a  saintly 
mother,  a  period  of  devotion,  the  reading  of  the  Sacred  Word,  a 
family  prayer.  Out  of  such  an  atmosphere  our  great  men  acquired 
an  attitude  of  self-reliance,  an  enterprising  spirit,  a  willingness  to 
work,  with  honesty  and  integrity  as  guiding  stars,  and  a  due  re- 
gard for  the  teachings  of  the  Almighty.  Is  each  American  family 
today  contributing  in  this  manner  to  our  national  greatness?  Are 
we  strengthening  the  sinews  of  our  country  with  homes  like  this,  or 
are  we  content  to  settle  back  into  conditions  which  lead  to  disrup- 
tion of  these  foundation  stones  of  a  strong  democracy? 

The  Golden  Rule 

Selfishness  on  the  part  of  certain  groups  has  led  to  internal 
dissensions,  rabble  rousing,  and  class  hatreds,  breeding  a  kind  of 
disunity  which  is  dangerous  in  the  extreme.  This  type  of  thing  has 
more  than  political  or  economic  implications.  It  presents  a  serious 
moral  issue — a  problem  of  right  and  wrong.  It  has  to  do  with  the 
fundamental  character  of  each  person  involved,  with  his  honesty, 
his  desire  to  be  fair  in  his  dealings.  Are  we  in  America  willing  to 
do  unto  others  as  we  would  be  done  by?  Does  the  Golden  Rule 
mean  anything  to  us  when  we  apply  it  to  our  employment,  or  to  our 
association  with  others  in  groups  or  organizations?  The  Golden 
Rule  engenders  strength;  its  violation  breeds  strife  and  weakness. 

That  we  should  work  for  what  we  get  is  a  divine  principle. 
When  the  Lord  placed  Adam,  the  first  man  in  the  earth,  he  com- 
manded him  to  work  for  his  living,  to  earn  his  bread  by  the  sweat 
of  his  brow.  On  Mount  Sinai  the  Lord  commanded  men  to  labor. 
Philosophies  which  tend  to  cheapen  the  doctrine  that  men  should 
work  for  their  sustenance  detract  from  the  stability  of  the  nation. 
They  also  have  a  moral  effect  upon  the  individual,  robbing  him  of 
his  self-respect,  and  undermining  his  character. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

Religion  the  Source  of  Virtues 

Political  freedom  means  little;  in  fact  it  cannot  permanently  en- 
dure, without  the  strength  of  morality  and  integrity.  It  was  George 
Washington  who  said  that  morality  is  a  necessary  spring  of  popular 
government.  Yet,  as  Washington  also  reminds  us,  national  moral- 
ity cannot  prevail  in  the  exclusion  of  the  principles  of  religion. 

To  be  strong,  America  must  possess  those  fundamental  virtues, 
but  to  acquire  and  hold  them,  she  must  turn  to  their  source — religion. 

In  this  hour  of  danger,  can  we  afford  to  overlook  our  greatest 
Benefactor,  who  is  truly  the  Author  of  freedom  as  well  as  of  religious 
faith?  Can  we  forget  that  freedom  is  one  of  the  fruits  of  religion,  and 
that  if  we  give  up  our  faith  we  must  expect  also  to  lose  the  fruits  of 
faith?  Let  us  remember  too,  that  faith  in  God  is  inseparably  con- 
nected with  sincere  repentance  from  sin,  and  that  as  a  people,  to  en- 
joy the  fruits  of  faith — including  continued  freedom — we  must  live 
in  keeping  with  the  principles  of  revealed  religion. 

With  our  political  strength  so  dependent  upon  our  moral  power, 
and  that  in  turn  resting  upon  our  religious  devotion,  will  we  exercise 
sufficient  faith  to  abandon  those  practices  which  are  destructive  of 
good  character,  and  which  tend  to  weaken  us  as  a  nation? 

To  receive  blessings  from  God,  we  must  be  sincere  in  our  de- 
votion, and  consistent  in  our  faithfulness.  We  must  choose  whom 
we  will  follow,  keeping  in  mind  that  we  cannot  serve  two  masters 
at  the  same  time  and  be  loyal  to  both.  There  is  no  place  for  hypoc- 
risy before  the  Lord. 


America's  Need  for  God 

In  this  hour  of  peril,  with  devotion  and  sincere  purpose,  we  as 
a  people  must  turn  to  God,  learn  of  his  ways,  and  walk  in  his  paths. 
1  hen  shall  we  know  that  obedience  to  revealed  religion  can  make  us 
strong. 

A  truly  religious  person  will  not  dissipate  his  strength  in  sin. 

But  moved  by  the  Holy  Spirit  in  a  life  of  righteousness,  he  will 
know  the  strength  of  being  clean. 

He  will  know  the  strength  of  being  honest. 

He  will  know  the  strength  of  sober  thought  and  action. 

He  will  discover  the  great  strength  to  be  derived  throuqh  honest 
|mkkr!uPf  yer  uHe  J*?  3row  ^  power  through  observance  of  the 
babbath  day.   He  will  find  strength  in  reverence  for  the  name  of  the 


pv^n^ri  -fU  T\acquainted  With  the  movin9  P°wer  of  faith— 
T?u  •     ThlGh  Can  mov,e  mounfcains,  or  soften  the  hearts  of 
men,  and  bring  about  peace  and  common  understandinq. 

hi,  n?^K  T  thff  strength  of  being  kind  as  he  learns  to  love 
his  neighbor  as  himself. 

He 
learn  th 
laborer. 


nis  neignoor  as  nimselt. 

He  will  know  the  strength  to  be  derived  through  work  and  will 
learn  the  divine  truth  that  the  idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  of  The 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST    1 1 1 


He  will  gain  strength  of  character  by  giving  value  for  value  in 
every  transaction,  an  honest  day's  work  for  an  honest  day's  pay  in 
his  daily  occupation;  full  weight  and  undisguised  quality  at  the  trad- 
ing counter,  and  will  do  unto  others  as  he  would  have  others  do  unto 
him. 

He  will  be  strengthened  by  the  assurance  that  God  is  a  reality — 
that  he  lives,  and  that  he  protects  and  prospers  those  who  worship 
him  sincerely. 

America  needs  both  strength  and  a  continuation  of  liberty,  and 
she  may  have  them  if  she  will  but  serve  the  Lord.  If,  as  a  nation,  we 
so  live,  every  American  may  feel  secure  in  spite  of  world  chaos,  and 
may  say  with  confidence  in  the  words  of  David, 

The  Lord  is  my  light  and  ray  salvation;  whom  shall  I  fear?  the  Lord 
is  the  strength  of  my  life;  of  whom  shall  I  be  afraid?    (Psalm  27:1.) 

Selection  by  the  Choir;  "Come  Dearest  Lord" — (Evan 
Stephens). 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn:  "Abide  With  Me,"  (Monk). 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning  ses- 
sion of  the  General  Conference,  which  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
the  regular  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00. 

The  large  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  long  before 
time  to  begin  the  broadcast,  people  from  all  over  the  Church  having 
assembled  to  listen  to  this  radio  program  and  the  Conference  service 
which  was  to  follow.  The  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the 
Tabernacle  was  also  filled  with  people,  and  hundreds  of  others  as- 
sembled on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  amplifiers  haying  been  in- 
stalled in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  grounds  that  those  who  were 
unable  to  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  could  listen  to  the 

PrOCThis9Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  was  presented 
through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  coast-to-coast  network,  throughout  the  United  States.  The 
broadcast,  written  and  announced  by  Richard  L  Evans,  originated 
with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City  and  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew,"  and  then  on  signal  the 
organ  and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain  sing- 
ing words  to  end  of  second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's background. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls  as 
music  and  the  spoken  word  are  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

At  this  hour  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  continue  the  19th  year  of  this  broadcast  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  is  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle  organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

First  is  a  song  by  Cyril  Jenkins:  "Out  of  the  silence  wake  me  a 
song — a  hymn  whose  sounds  are  like  shadows  soft  and  dim." — "Out 
of  the  Silence." 

(Choir  sang  "Out  of  the  Silence" — Jenkins) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  presents  from  Temple  Square 
today  a  dramatic  organ  offering  by  Leon  Boellman:  "The  Toccata 
in  C  Minor." 

(O  rgan  presented  "Toccata  in  C  Minor" — Boellman) 

Announcer:  We  turn  now  on  Temple  Square  to  one  of  the 
glorious  choruses  from  Mendelssohn's  St.  Paul.  The  text  is  taken 
from  the  60th  chapter  of  Isaiah:  "Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come 
.  .  .  behold  now  total  darkness  covereth  the  kingdoms  and  gross 
darkness  the  people,  but  .  .  .  the  glory  of  the  Lord  appeareth  upon 
thee."— "Rise!  Up!  Arise!" 

(Choir  sang  "Rise!  Up!  Arise!"— Mendelssohn ) 

Announcer:  We  turn  now  to  the  quiet  thoughts  of  closing  day 
recalled  by  a  thoughtful  theme:  "Berceuse"  by  Arensky. 

(Organ  presented  "Berceuse" — Arensky) 

Announcer:  There  is  an  idea  that  has  grown  up  among  us,  per- 
^fSj        expressed  by  the  phrase:  "Moderation  in  all  things" 

Moderation  *  is  a  very  good  word,  and  is  associated  with  many 
virtues  and  much  wisdom.  Indeed,  it  is  so  good  a  word  that  we  may 
be  led  to  believe  that  "moderation"  is  always  a  virtue,  that  anything 

in  moderation  is  good.  Certainly  moderation  is  always  to  be  pre- 
ferred to  excess.  '  And,  of  course,  we  know  that  both  "moderation- 
arid  excess  are  usually  relative  terms  which  vary  according  to  peo- 
ple and  circumstances  But  in  determining  what  is  moderate  and 
what  is  excessive  we  should  always  remember  this:  That  there  are 
many  things  which  are  excessive  even  "in  moderation."    There  are 

u9S  in  lifiC  Which  eV,en  to  touch  is  an  excess.  For  example: 
What  about  stealing  in  moderation?  What  about  lying  in  modera- 
tion? What  about  immorality  in  moderation?  What  about  cruelty 
in  moderation?  What  about  dishonor  in  moderation?  What  about 
murder  in  moderation?   In  another  category:    What  about  cancer  in 

SS^'o^rf  W,h3'  ab°Ut  ™y  ~  °r  mali9nant  or  ^desirable 
thing  or  act  cr  habit— even    in  moderation"?    You  see,  we  could 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST    1 1 3 


let  words  mislead  us  if  we  would.  Giving  limited  consent  to  something 
which  is  wholly  wrong  in  principle  is  a  disastrous  practice.  Anything 
which  in  and  of  itself  is  not  good,  still  isn't  good,  even  in  moderation. 
And  if  we  don't  want  to  face  the  problem  of  where  to  stop  or  how  far 
to  go,  the  answer  is  to  keep  away  from  what  we  should  keep  away 
from,  and  not  to  tamper  with  what  we  shouldn't  tamper  with,  not 
even  "in  moderation."  If  we  don't  take  the  first  step,  we'll  never 
take  the  second.  If  we  never  take  the  second,  we'll  never  form  a 
habit.  And  if  we  never  form  a  bad  habit,  we'll  never  have  to  break 
one.  But  whenever  we  commit  ourselves  to  a  questionable  course, 
the  problem  of  where  to  stop  is  constantly  with  us — and  will  be  until 
we  do  something  about  it.  There  is  no  magic  in  moderation  that 
will  change  a  vice  into  a  virtue. 

Selection  by  the  Choir — "Though  Deep'ning  Trials" — Careless 
Announcer:  We  have  heard  a  hymn  for  which  Eliza  R.  Snow 

wrote  the  words  and  George  Careless  the  music:  "Though  Deep'ning 

Trials  Throng  Your  Way." 

And  now  our  closing  chorus  from  Temple  Square  is  from 
Haydn's  inspired  oratorio,  the  Creation: 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth  .  .  . 
(and  all  that  in  them  is).  .  .  and  God  created  man  in  His  own  image; 
in  the  image  of  God  created  He  him  .  .  .  and  man  became  a  living 
soul  .  .  .  And  God  saw  everything  that  He  had  made:  and,  behold, 
it  was  good."  (See  Genesis  Chaps.  1  and  2) 

"The  earth  rolls  upon  her  wings,  and  the  sun  giveth  his  light 
by  day,  and  the  moon  giveth  her  light  by  night,  and  the  stars  also 
give  their  light  ...  in  their  glory  in  the  midst  of  the  power  of  God  .  .  . 
Behold,  all  these  kingdoms,  and  any  man  who  hath  seen  any  or  the 
least  of  these  hath  seen  God  moving  in  His  majesty  and  power." 
(Doctrine  &  Covenants  88:45,  47) 

"Achieved  is  the  glorious  work.  Our  song  let  be  the  praise  of 
God,  glory  to  His  name,  forever." 

(Choir  sang  "Achieved  is  the  Glorious  Work" — Haydn) 

Announcer:  As  we  leave  you  now  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills,  again  we  wish  for  you  peace,  this  day — and  al- 
ways. 

This  concludes  the  949th  presentation,  continuing  the  19th  year 
of  this  broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
brought  to  you  by  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 


1 1 4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  ThUd  Da» 

MORNING  MEETING 
CONFERENCE  SESSION 

Immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast,  Conference  reconvened  in  the  Sunday  morning  session, 
which  commenced  at  10:00  a.m. 

President  Smith  presided  and  at  the  President's  request  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services. 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  are  on  the  air,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  the  morning  session 
will  be  conducted  by  President  Clark. 


President  Reuben  J.  Clark,  Jr: 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  118th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning,  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in 
Europe  presiding  over  the  European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young,  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following 
stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  and  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and 
over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

The  choir  singing  for  today's  sessions  of  the  Conference  will 
be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting, and  with  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  for  the 
morning  session,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  for  the  afternoon 
session. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  congregation  singing  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top" — (Beesley). 
Hymn  Book  134,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  194,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Victor  J.  Bird 
of  the  Utah  Stake,  Provo,  Utah. 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congregation:  "High  On  the  Mountain 
Top." 

President  Victor  J.  Bird  of  the  Utah  Stake  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem:  "Come,  Restful  Peace" — (Bach). 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  115 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Now  when  they  heard  this,  they  were  pricked  in  their  heart,  and 
said  unto  Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles,  Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do? 

Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call.  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

Appreciation  of  Utah  Centennial  Commission 

Before  commenting  on  the  thought  expressed  in  this  scripture, 
may  I  take  one  moment,  in  behalf  of  the  Utah  Centennial  Com- 
mission, and  so  far  as  I  may,  the  governor  and  other  state  officials 
who  have  sustained  the  commission,  to  express  to  the  people  of  Utah 
heartfelt  commendation  for  their  cooperation  and  united  effort  dur- 
ing this  centennial  year. 

I  wish  to  name  especially  the  county  committees,  the  public 
school  teachers,  President  Olpin  and  the  University  of  Utah,  Presi- 
dent McDonald  and  the  Brigham  Young  University,  President  Harris 
and  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  President  Dixon  and  the 
Weber  College,  and  the  Utah  State  Teachers'  Association — these 
must  be  added  to  the  director  and  to  the  scores  of  committees  here- 
tofore publicly  recognized,  to  whose  united  and  devoted  effort  is  due 
all  credit  for  whatever  success  has  been  achieved  during  the  1947 
celebration. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings 

Meeting  with  you  this  morning  in  this  great  conference,  I  am 
deeply  grateful  for  my  knowledge  of  the  existence  of  God,  our  loving 
Father,  and  of  his  Beloved  Son,  our  Savior  in  very  deed.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  the  depths  of 
my  soul  I  know  it  is  true. 

I  am  happy  in  my  love  for  my  immediate  associates,  President 
George  Albert  Smith  and  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  for 
these  noble  men  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Assistants  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  the  Patriarch.  I  find  it  a  joy  to  work  with  you  loyal  men 
who  preside  in  stakes  and  wards  and  branches.  It  is  a  privilege  to 
have  the  opportunity  to  labor  with  you,  to  recognize  your  unselfish 
devotion  to  the  Church. 

Life,  though  freighted  with  great  responsibilities  and  a  conscious- 
ness of  my  inability,  and  regrets  for  failures,  is  still  wholesome  and 
sweet. 

The  world  is  full  of  honorable  men  and  women  who,  as  those 
men  who  accosted  Peter  on  the  day  of  Pentecost,  desire  to  know  what 
to  do — what  to  believe. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

A  man  who  has  reached  the  four  score  mark  in  years  hailed 
me  yesterday  morning  with  the  comment:  "The  world  is  in  a  terrible 
condition,  isn't  it?" 

I  replied:  "It  certainly  is  and  greatly  in  need  of  wise,  steady 
guidance." 

Epoch-Making  Period 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  living  in  what  may  be  the  most 
epoch-making  period  of  all  time.  Scientific  discoveries  and  inven- 
tions, the  breaking  down  of  heretofore  approved  social  and  moral 
standards,  the  uprooting  of  old  religious  moorings  all  give  evidence 
that  we  are  witnessing  one  of  those  tidal  waves  of  human  thought 
which  periodically  sweep  over  the  world  and  change  the  destiny  of 
the  human  race.  I  call  attention  to  world  conditions  because  the 
mission  of  the  Church  of  Christ  is  worldwide.  Its  responsibility  and 
commission  is  to 

.  .  .  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost:  Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you.  (Matt.  28:19,  20.) 

Scientific  Progress 

Last  September  23,  Colonel  James  M.  Gillespie,  commander  of 
the  robot  C54  Skymaster,  made  a  flight  of  twenty-four  hundred  miles 
from  Newfoundland  to  Brise,  Norton  Airfield,  England,  demonstrat- 
ing that  a  pilotless  plane  can  be  sent  three  thousand  miles  from  the 
United  States  and  back  again  from  one  radio  station. 

Fourteen  men  crossed  the  ocean  without  touching  a  button  or 
a  wheel! 

Imagine  what  could  happen  if,  instead  of  fourteen  passengers, 
that  robot  plane  carried  two  thousand  five  hundred  pounds  of  atom 
bombs.  Then  imagine  not  only  one  such  plane,  but  fifty,  all  bent  on 
destruction,  and  guided  accurately  by  mechanical  brains! 

A  more  recent  dispatch  from  Washington  ( September  30,  As- 
sociated Press)  says  that  "robot  warfare  between  continents  is  de- 
finitely possible."  It  states  further  that  "the  methods  and  equipment 
needed  to  make  missiles  capable  of  carrying  a  five  thousand-pound 
war  head  at  six  hundred  miles  an  hour  for  four  thousand  miles  are 
already  well  known  in  this  country." 

On  August  11,  1947,  William  P.  Odom,  twenty-seven-year-old 
airplane  pilot,  completed  a  world  record  by  flying  around  the  qlobe 
ff '  seventy-three  hours,  five  minutes  and  eleven  seconds,  at  a  speed  of 
310  miles  an  hour. 

On  August  26,  1947,  a  navy  plane,  piloted  by  Major  Marion  E. 
Carl,  thirty-one  years  of  age,  broke  the  air  speed  record  by  flying  at 
the  rate  of  650  miles  an  hour.  a 

toundi^g^  m°dern  science  is  doin9  in  other  fields  is  even  more  as- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


117 


In  a  current  magazine  for  this  month,  the  thought  is  advanced  as 
a  possible  accomplishment  that  man  may  succeed  in  turning  night 
into  day,  not  by  candles,  lanterns,  or  electric  lights,  but  by  "doing 
away  with  the  earth's  darkness  entirely."  One  of  the  experiments 
now  being  carried  on  has  to  do  with  forms  of  electrons  that  "rush 
through  ninety  million  miles  of  space  between  the  sun  and  the  earth 
and  crash  into  the  atmosphere." 

When  the  electrons  hit  a  molecule  or  atom  of  one  of  the  atmospheric 
gases,  the  molecule  or  atom  is  ionized,  and  the  gas  glows  just  as  it  does 
in  a  fluorescent  light  bulb.  There  you  have  the  germ  of  the  idea  that  may 
prove  to  be  one  of  the  great  scientific  developments  of  our  time. 

Responsibility  to  Control  Discoveries 

I  refer  to  these  marvels,  which  are  merely  illustrative  of  many 
others,  to  emphasize  the  fact — if  anything  so  obvious  needs  emphasis 
— that  we  are  living  in  an  age  of  scientific  discovery  and  invention 
unequaled  by  any  previous  period  in  the  world's  history — discoveries 
latent  with  such  potent  powers  either  for  the  blessing  or  the  destruc- 
tion of  human  beings  as  to  make  man's  responsibility  in  controlling 
them  the  most  gigantic  ever  placed  in  human  hands. 

This  responsibility  and  its  possible  results  prompted  one  man 
( Hayden )  to  write: 

Today,  as  seldom  if  ever  before,  human  society  is  threatened  with 
disintegration,  if  not  complete  chaos.  All  the  ancient  evils  of  human  re- 
lationships, injustice,  selfishness,  abuse  of  strength,  become  sinister  and 
terrible  when  reinforced  by  the  vast  increase  of  material  power.  The  soul 
of  man  cowers,  starved  and  fearful,  in  the  midst  of  a  civilization  grown  too 
complex  for  any  mind  to  visualize  or  to  control. 

Need  for  Divine  Guidance 

Throughout  the  world  generally  today  there  is  a  spirit  of  un- 
rest, a  grasping  for  untried  ideologies,  (and  our  community  is  not 
an  exception),  and,  what  is  worst  of  all,  a  tendency  toward  moral 
abandonment.  It  is  all  too  apparent  that  "our  spiritual  culture  lags 
far  behind  our  material  culture  in  its  development." 

Now  is  a  time  when  peoples  in  all  the  world  should  pause  and 
in  all  earnestness  repeat  the  Pentecostal  question  propounded  to 
to  Peter  and  other  apostles: 

Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do? 

Representatives  of  fifty  nations  are  now  assembled  trying  to 
find  an  answer.  Communist  nations,  however,  are  clashing  with 
Christian  groups,  and  it  looks  as  though  the  proverbial  dove  of  peace 
if  not  killed  might  again  be  seriously  crippled. 

At  the  final  plenary  session  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
when  the  charter  was  about  to  be  signed,  five  great  leaders  invoked 
the  Lord's  aid  to  the  end  that  the  cause  of  peace  would  not  fail. 

Said  Mr.  Edward  Stettinius: 


H8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

„     .      -  Third  Day 

Sunday.  October  5 

To  the  governments  and  peoples  of  the  fifty  nations  here  represented, 
this  charter  is  now  committed,  and  may  Almighty  God  from  this  day  on 
and  in  the  months  and  years  to  come  sustain  us  in  the  unalterable  purpose 
that  its  promise  may  be  fulfilled. 

The  Earl  of  Halifax,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the  United 

Kingdom,  said: 

Let  us  also,  mindful  alike  of  the  world's  need  and  of  our  own  weak- 
ness, pray  that,  under  God's  guidance,  what  we  have  done  here  in  these 
last  weeks  will  be  found  worthy  of  the  faith  which  gave  it  birth,  and  of 
the  human  suffering  which  has  been  its  price. 

His  Royal  Highness,  Amir  Faisal  Ibin  Abdiel  Aziz,  chairman  of 
the  delegation  of  Saudi  Arabia,  stated: 

As  long  as  we  are  united  together  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation,  the 
hands  of  Almighty  God  will  lead  us.  We  shall  always  have  his  aid  so 
long  as  we  help  one  another. 

And  Field  Marshall  Jan  Christiaan  Smuts  of  South  Africa, 

said: 

May  heaven's  blessings  rest  on  it. 

And  the  President  of  our  own  United  States  prayed  that  under 
God's  guidance  the  cause  would  succeed. 

Unless  such  appeals  were  mere  empty  phrases,  these  leaders 
indicate  the  only  safe  and  sure  way  wars  may  be  averted,  and  peace 
among  nations  established.  Not  through  communistic  theories,  not 
by  the  manifestations  of  mistrust,  suspicion,  and  hatred  will  the  tur~ 
bulency  of  national  ills  be  quieted.  Unless  the  spirit  of  Christianity 
permeate  the  deliberations  of  the  United  Nations,  dire  tragedies 
await  humanity. 

Opportunity  for  Scientific  Advancement 

On  the  other  hand  never  since  the  beginning  of  history  has  there 
been  such  an  opportunity  for  the  nations  to  utilize  inventions  and 
scientific  discoveries  to  the  blessing  and  peace  of  human  beings. 

Dr.  Charles  A.  Elwood  truly  says: 

Our  material  culture  has  advanced  by  leaps  and  bounds  until  we  find 
almost  unlimited  physical  power  in  our  hands;  but  our  spiritual  culture  has 
lagged,  and  we  find  many  of  the  traditions  of  barbarism  still  strong  among 
us,  especially  the  traditions  of  war  and  self-indulgence  at  the  expense  of 
others.  These  traditions,  along  with  the  ignorance  and  paganism  of  the 
masses  of  mankind,  make  our  world,  we  must  acknowledge,  a  veritable- 
powder  house  at  the  present  time.  Almost  any  powerful  group  foolish 
enough  to  do  so  could  explode  it.  If  western  civilization  emerges  from 
this  situation  safely,  it  will  only  be  through  a  deeper  appreciation  of  the 
social  ethics  of  Jesus  than  it  has  yet  shown. 

O,  shall  we  never  learn 
The  truth  all  time  has  taught — 
That  without  God  as  architect 
Our  building  comes  to  naught? 

The  following  remarks  made  by  United  States  congressmen  in 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


119 


the  House  of  Representatives  sound  a  true  note  of  warning  to  the 
world : 

The  nations  and  peoples  of  the  earth  must  go  back  to  God  the 
Father  no  matter  how  hard,  how  long,  or  how  bloody  the  road.  The  con- 
flict in  which  we  are  now  and  will  be  engaged  during  the  coming  years 
will  determine  the  destiny  and  type  of  government  for  mankind  for  the 
next  thousand  years.  By  our  courageous  faith,  by  our  patient  sacrifice, 
and  by  our  loyal  obedience  to  God,  we  shall  build  a  permanent,  new- 
world  social  order,  founded  upon  the  enduring  and  eternal  principles  of 
Christian  truth  and  justice.  This  will  be  the  grand  climax  of  mankind's 
age-long  endeavor  and  imminent  struggle  to  conquer  the  chaos  of  evil 
forces  and  achieve  and  establish  the  divine  order  of  the  ages — peace, 
plenty,  and  prosperity  for  all  nations  and  all  mankind. 

Repentance  Needed 

Infidelity  and  sexual  immorality  are  two  principal  evils  that 
threaten  to  weaken  and  to  wreck  present-day  civilization.  Unfor- 
tunately, the  trends  of  modern  life  are  tending  to  disintegrate  the 
very  foundation  of  the  Christian  home.  Sexual  laxity  among  young 
people,  birth  control,  and  intemperance  are  its  insidious  and  vicious 
enemies.  When  family  life  disintegrates,  the  foundation  and  bulwark 
of  human  society  is  undermined. 

Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do? 

The  answer  today  is  the  same  as  it  was  two  thousand  years  ago, 
the  same  as  it  will  ever  be  throughout  time. 

All  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
worship  the  Father  in  his  name  and  endure  in  faith  on  his  name  to  the) 
end  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Said  the  Savior : 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart;  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light.  (Matt.  11:29,  30.) 

As  the  honest  people  of  the  world  wonder  in  vain,  and  cry  out 
in  uncertainty,  what  shall  we  do?  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
who  feel  secure  in  the  knowledge  of  the  restored  gospel  should  say, 
"Men  and  brethren,  what  can  we  do?" 

Plan  of  Action  Suggested 

Some  specific  things  which  the  priesthood  and  their  families 
can  and  should  do  are  these: 

First — We  can  set  an  example  of  uprightness;  be  honest  in  all 
our  dealings;  avoid  vulgarity  and  profanity;  demonstrate  to  our 
neighbors  and  to  all  whom  we  meet  that  we  live  clean,  honorable 
lives. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  among  men  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  5:16.) 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

Sunday.  October  5 

Second— Let  us  strive  for  peace  and  harmony  in  the  home.  If 
we  cannot  keep  quarreling,  bickering,  and  selfishness  out  of  our  home, 
how  can  we  even  hope  to  banish  these  evils  from  society? 

A  true  Mormon  home  is  one  in  which  if  Christ  should  chance  to 
enter,  he  would  be  pleased  to  linger  and  to  rest. 

Third — Having  at  least  striven  for  a  good  character,  having  a 
home  environment  that  is  creditable,  we  may  then  consistently  dis- 
charge our  duty  as  authorized  representatives  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  declare  to  the  world  that  the  conditions  that  will  bring 
peace  and  comfort  to  the  individual,  to  the  family,  and  to  the  nation, 
are  found  in  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  These  can  be  named 
and  understood  and  as  easily  practised  with  resultant  contentment 
and  peace  as  are  the  evils  and  vices  that  bring  tribulation. 

Summarized  these  fundamentals  are:  An  acceptance  of  Christ 
as  Savior  and  Redeemer;  a  moving,  soul-consciousness  of  the  exist- 
ence of  God,  and  that  he  is  our  Father  in  Heaven;  a  daily  life  con- 
sistent with  such  a  knowledge;  a  love  for  one's  fellow  men. 

In  other  words,  as  the  Savior  summarized  the  law  and  the  proph- 
ets: 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  .  .  .  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  (Mark 
12:31,  32.) 

World  Needs  Spirituality 

I  realize,  as  I  have  said  elsewhere,  that  skeptics,  and  pessimists 
say  that  these  principles  are  too  idealistic,  that  mankind  is  too  near 
the  beasts  of  creation,  struggling  to  eke  out  an  existence,  even  to 
attempt  to  apply  them  in  daily  life.  In  reply,  I  say  men  and  women 
have  practised  them  and  have  been  happy,  and  have  made  the  world 
better  in  so  doing.  Christ's  disciples  did  it  in  Jesus'  day,  (as  impres- 
sively stated  yesterday  by  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen),  and  they  have 
influenced  millions  of  lives  since.  There  have  been  thousands  since 
their  day,  some  heralded  on  the  pages  of  history,  and  others  of 
whom  the  world  has  never  heard  who,  through  love  of  God,  truth, 
and  of  fellow  men,  have  "never  yielded  to  the  pressure  of  circum- 
stances," and  who,  though  they  faced  persecution  and  even  death, 
could  say  in  their  hearts  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared  as  he 
turned  into  the  path  that  led  to  his  martyrdom:  "If  my  life  is  of  no 
value  to  my  friends,  it  is  of  no  value  to  me." 

The  world  needs  millions  more  whose  influence  will  counteract 
the  evil  spread  by  the  multi-millions  who  grope  in  selfishness,  sordid- 
ness,  suspicion,  hatred,  and  crimes  of  varying  degree. 

After  all,  the  spiritual  life  is  the  true  life  of  man.  It  is  what 
distinguishes  him  from  the  beasts  of  the  forests.  It  lifts  him  above 
the  physical,  yet  he  is  still  susceptible  to  all  the  natural  contribu- 
tions that  life  can  give  him  that  are  needful  for  his  happiness  or  con- 
tributive  to  his  advancement.  Though  "in  the  world,  he  is  not  of 
the  world." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  121 


Jesus  taught  that  men  and  women  fail  to  live  truly,  unless  they 
have  spirituality.  In  the  Life  and  Teachings  of  Jesus,  we  read  that 
the  spiritual  force  underlies  everything,  and  without  it  nothing  worth 
while  can  be  accomplished.  "Spiritual  needs  can  be  met  only  by 
spiritual  means.  All  government,  laws,  methods,  and  organziations 
are  of  no  value  unless  men  and  women  are  filled  with  truth,  right- 
eousness, and  mercy.  Material  things  have  no  power  to  raise  the 
sunken  spirit.  Gravitation,  electricity,  and  steam  are  great  forces, 
but  they  are  all  powerless  to  change  the  motives  of  men  and  women." 
Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Gospel  Offers  Solution 

Men  of  the  priesthood,  we  must  continue  to  declare  that  the 
gospel,  the  Glad  Tidings  of  Great  Joy,  is  the  true  guide  to  mankind; 
and  that  men  and  women  are  happiest  and  most  content  who  live 
nearest  to  its  teachings. 

The  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape; 
and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  .  .  . 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths 
of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  (D.  &  C.  1:2,  4.) 

What  the  sun  in  the  heavenly  blue  is  to  the  earth  struggling  to 
get  free  from  winter's  grip,  so  the  gospel  is  to  sorrowing  souls  yearn- 
ing for  something  higher  and  better  than  mankind  has  yet  found. 

If  men  and  nations  will  hold  their  belief  in  God,  and  accept 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ,  pilotless  planes  and  other  argosies  of 
the  air  encircling  the  globe  in  a  nightless  world  will  carry  not  bombs 
of  merciless  destruction,  but  gifts  and  blessings  to  what  is  now  a 
groping,  benighted  world. 

All  the  world  is  in  the  Valley  of  Decision 
And  out  of  it  there  is  but  one  sure  road; 
Eyes  unsealed  can  still  foresee  the  mighty  vision 
Of  a  world  in  travail  turning  unto  God. 

May  heaven  help  all  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ  to  live 
and  labor  for  the  spreading  throughout  the  world  of  the  gospel  of 
light  and  truth  and  peace,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Facing  this  magnificent  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  I 
deeply  realize  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  and  hence 
I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

The  ancient  writer  of  Proverbs  declared: 

Where  no  counsel  is  the  people  fall,  but  in  the  multitude  of  counselors 
there  is  safety.  (Proverbs  11:14.) 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

He  also  declared: 

Give  instruction  to  a  wise  man  and  he  will  yet  be  wiser;  teach  a  just 
man  and  he  will  increase  in  learning.  (Proverbs  9:9.) 

Centuries  ago  there  lived  upon  this  earth  a  generation  of 
people  so  wicked  and  vile  that  the  God  of  Israel  turned  his  face 
away  in  shame  and  chagrin,  but  as  a  manifestation  of  his  great  love 
for  these  people,  he  sent  them  a  great  counselor  and  prophet.  His 
name  was  Noah.  Noah  stood  at  the  crossroads  and  admonished, 
pleaded  with,  and  counseled  the  people  to  take  the  path  of  right- 
eousness and  virtue,  but  exercising  their  free  agency,  they  chose 
the  path  of  wickedness  and  debauchery.  A  great  flood  swept  over 
the  earth,  and  they  were  swept  from  the  face  of  it,  and  the  God  of 
Israel  looked  down  upon  a  cleansed  earth. 

A  Guide  at  the  Crossroads 

Throughout  all  dispensations  the  God  of  Israel  has  placed  at 
the  crossroads  a  great  counselor,  a  prophet,  to  teach  the  people  the 
mind  and  the  will  of  their  Eternal  Father,  to  the  end  that  they 
might  return  to  him  and  dwell  with  him  throughout  the  eternities  to 
come. 

God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son, 
and  he,  too,  stood  at  the  crossroads.  He  admonished,  he  pleaded 
with  the  people,  and  endeavored  to  teach  them  the  gospel  of  salva- 
tion, giving  his  life  for  the  redemption  of  mankind.  After  his  death 
and  resurrection,  the  organization  of  the  Church  remained  with 
apostles  and  prophets,  counselors  to  the  people,  endeavoring  to 
teach  them  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  But  again  the  people  chose 
another  path,  and  after  a  few  centuries  they  chose  to  follow  the 
doctrines  and  the  teachings  of  men,  and  a  great  pall  of  apostasy 
was  over  the  earth,  and  darkness  remained  upon  the  earth  for  many 
centuries. 

A  Prophet  Raised  Up 

Once  again,  as  the  Lord  had  promised  through  his  prophets, 
there  would  be  a  restitution  of  all  things.  A  prophet  was  raised  up, 
a  young  man  who  wished  to  know  which  of  all  the  teachings  of 
men  might  be  the  teachings  of  God.  And  in  answer  to  that  prayer 
the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him.  They  told  him  that  all 
of  these  doctrines  were  of  men,  that  they  drew  nigh  unto  God  with 
their  lips  but  their  hearts  were  far  away  from  him. 

So  God  gave  another  great  counselor  to  the  people,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  through  whom  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
was  restored  in  its  fulness,  in  its  simplicity,  and  in  addition  thereto 
the  priesthood  was  restored  to  earth,  that  power  given  to  men 
where  they  may  act  as  God's  agents.  The  Church  was  set  upon 
the  earth  with  prophets,  apostles,  and  all  of  the  officers  that  existed 
in  former  days. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  123 


Achievements  from  Following  Counsel 

Evil  men  took  the  Latter-day  prophet  and  murdered  him  in 
cold  blood.  Again  the  people  who  had  accepted  him  as  a  prophet 
of  God  stood  at  the  crossroads,  but  another  great  counselor  was 
raised  up — Brigham  Young — upon  whom  rested  the  great  responsi- 
bility of  finding  another  home  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  also 
of  finding  a  place  where  the  roots  of  the  kingdom  should  be  sunk 
so  deeply  that  they  would  never  be  torn  up  again.  Following  their 
divinely  appointed  leader,  the  people  made  the  long  trek  over  the 
plains  and  through  the  mighty  defiles  of  these  great  mountains,  and 
here  in  the  valleys  they  built  churches,  homes,  schools,  buildings 
of  various  kinds,  and  a  temple  to  their  God. 

I  have  wondered  many  times  what  it  was  that  made  them  suc- 
cessful, that  made  it  possible  for  them  to  achieve  so  highly.  In 
contemplating  some  of  the  factors  that  contributed  to  their  success 
and  achievements,  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  they  were 
anxious  and  willing  to  follow  counsel.  They  accepted  Brigham 
Young  without  any  reservations  as  the  servant  of  God,  God's 
mouthpiece  through  whom  the  Lord  made  his  mind  and  will  known 
to  his  children.  And  they  followed  that  counsel  so  closely  that 
they  gave  no  consideration  to  themselves  in  a  physical  sense. 
All  that  mattered  was  whether  or  not  the  counsel  of  God  as  re- 
vealed to  them  through  his  chosen  servant  was  being  carried  out 
fully. 

Brigham  Young  made  the  following  statement  to  them,  and 
I  am  sure  this  statement  came  from  God  as  did  the  statement  made 
by  the  writer  of  Proverbs,  which  expresses  the  same  thought: 

The  Latter-day  Saints  who  hearken  to  the  words  of  the  Lord,  given  to 
them  touching  their  political,  social,  and  financial  concerns,  I  say,  and 
say  it  boldly,  that  they  will  have  wisdom  which  is  altogether  superior 
to  that  of  the  wisdom  of  the  children  of  darkness,  or  the  children  of  the 
world.  I  know  this  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  the 
results  of  my  own  actions.  They  who  have  hearkened  to  counsels  given 
to  them  in  temporal  matters,  have  invariably  bettered  their  conditions  tem- 
porally and  spiritually.  (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  219,  220.  1943 
edition. ) 

And  so  counsel,  in  one  sense,  divides  itself  into  two  categories: 
That  which  has  to  do  with  materialistic  things  and  that  which  has 
to  do  with  spiritual  things.  God's  prophet  was  given  revelation 
from  on  high  to  the  extent  that  he  was  enabled  to  counsel  his 
people  in  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual  things,  and  that  had  to 
be  because  this  people  came  here  impoverished.  They  had  no 
money.  All  that  they  had  was  faith  in  God  and  their  hands  and 
minds  with  which  to  work,  but  yet  God  revealed  to  them  the 
counsel  that  was  necessary  for  their  temporal  success.  That  suc- 
cess is  now  represented  in  farms,  industries,  and  in  various  forms 
of  business  which  exist  today. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

Faith  of  A  Pioneer 

The  pioneers  did  not  think  much  of  personal  consequence, 
which  is  exemplified  in  a  diary  that  I  read  some  time  ago  of  one  of 
the  Gardner  brothers  who  accepted  the  gospel  in  Canada  and  after 
accepting  it,  he  was  most  anxious  to  go  to  Nauvoo  and  shake  the 
hand  of  the  Prophet  and  visit  with  the  Saints,  but  he  arrived  in 
Nauvoo  too  late.  The  Prophet  had  been  murdered,  but  Brother 
Gardner  visited  with  the  General  Authorities  and  with  the  Saints, 
and  in  his  dia,ry  he  wrote:  "I  know  that  these  men  are  the  Apostles 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  know  the  people  that  are  following 
them  are  indeed  Saints.'' 

Returning  to  Canada  he  sold  his  property  and  made  the  long 
trek  back  to  Nauvoo  with  his  family,  just  in  time  to  be  driven  out 
in  the  middle  of  winter.  He  spent  the  winter  on  the  plains  of  Iowa. 
He  finally  made  his  way  into  Salt  Lake  Valley,  where  after  ten 
years  of  struggle  and  almost  starvation  he  wrote  in  his  diary: 
"How  grateful  I  am  to  the  Lord,  for  now  my  family  are  sheltered 
under  one  roof.   We  have  clothing,  and  we  have  food." 

In  the  midst  of  this  prosperity  a  messenger  sent  by  the  Presi- 
dent  of  the  Church  requested  him  to  come  to  his  office  at  once.  As 
he  entered  the  office  of  President  Young,  he  met  one  of  the  Presi- 
dent's counselors  coming  out,  and  the  counselor  said  to  him:  "Now, 
brother,  don't  blame  me  for  what's  going  to  happen." 

In  a  moment  this  good  brother  stood  before  President  Young 
and  the  President  said  to  him:  "Brother  Gardner,  we  are  calling 
you  on  a  mission  to  go  and  help  settle  Dixie." 

This  good  man  said:  "I  scratched  my  head.  I  spit  upon  the 
floor,  and  mentally  I  concluded  I  had  had  enough,  but  another 
thought  flashed  through  my  mind.  The  servant  of  God  was  calling 
me  to  perform  a  duty."  And  he  answered  the  President:  "I'll  be 
glad  to  go." 

He  sold  his  mill;  he  sold  his  farm;  he  sold  most  of  his  livestock 
and  taking  a  few  belongings  and  his  family  in  a  wagon  made  the 
long  trek  in  the  middle  of  winter  to  what  is  now  St.  George.  And 
from  that  time  on,  according  to  his  diary,  he  did  not  know  very 
much  about  prosperity.  He  was  on  a  mission  to  help  build  up  an- 
other part  of  the  kingdom  and  an  interesting  comment  is  that  some 
of  the  wood  that  rests  in  the  great  Tabernacle  organ  came  from 
trees  cut  by  this  brother  in  Pine  Valley. 

He  suffered  privation  and  many  physical  hardships,  yet  in  his 
diary  I  did  not  find  one  word  of  complaint,  rather  I  found  the  spirit 
of  gratitude  and  thankfulness  to  God  because  he  had  found  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  had  a  testimony  that  the  great 
counselor  who  stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church  was  a  servant  of 
Almighty  God. 

Wasted  Food  Now  Needed 
By  following  counsel  closely  the  pioneers  achieved,  and  I 


124 

Sunday.  October  5 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRT  HUN  125 


wonder  now  as  we  leave  this  great  conference  whether  or  not  you 
and  I  are  going  to  follow  the  counsel  of  God's  servants  who  have 
admonished  us  in  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  as  to  what  we  should  do  in 
both  spiritual  and  temporal  matters.  I  think  of  the  days  in  1932- 
3-4-5  and  6,  when  the  philosophy  was  advocated  that  we  should 
destroy  food,  that  we  should  cut  down  on  our  crop  production, 
and  in  the  midst  of  such  advice  a  prophet  of  God  stood  at  the 
crossroads,  and  admonished  the  people  to  continue  to  produce 
more  and  more  and  to  save  every  pound.  Oh,  how  I  wish  that  the 
modern  Pharaohs  of  today  had  listened  to  a  modern  Joseph,  for 
had  this  country  gone  forth  with  its  great  potential  strength  in 
productivity  of  food,  there  would  be  enough  food  on  hand  to  feed 
a  starving  world.  You  might  ask  the  question:  How  is  it  possible 
to  conserve  food  over  a  period  of  ten  or  twelve  years?  Well, 
through  modern  means  of  refrigeration  and  canning,  and  other  de- 
vices, it  is  possible  to  conserve  food  for  years.  Out  of  our  own 
experience  in  storing  the  Relief  Society  wheat  we  know  that  wheat 
can  be  kept  sound  for  many  years,  based  upon  certain  principles. 

And  so,  had  the  counsel  of  God's  servants  in  these  days  been 
followed  there  would  have  been  no  difficulty  in  providing  enough 
food  and  other  necessities  of  life  to  help  a  starving  Europe  and  a 
suffering  China.  Accepting  and  following  the  counsel  of  God's 
selected  and  anointed  should  be  to  us  the  word  of  God  in  this  day 
just  exactly  as  was  the  word  of  God  in  the  days  of  the  pioneers. 

Obedience  to  Counsel  Rewarded 

I  had  related  to  me  a  rather  interesting  story  of  a  humble  man 
who  lives  in  the  state  of  Arizona;  it  is  as  follows:  Dr.  John  A. 
Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  had  been  visiting  in  the 
Snowflake  Stake  and  among  other  counsel  he  gave  to  the  brethren 
was  this:  "Why  don't  you  drill  wells  that  you  might  bring  more 
of  this  arid  land  under  cultivation?" 

President  Flake  of  the  presidency  pondered  over  the  counsel 
given,  and  he  came  to  the  conclusion  that  a  servant  of  God  had 
spoken  and  that  it  would  be  wise  to  follow  such  counsel.  Going 
to  a  neighboring  town  he  endeavored  to  secure  the  services  of  a 
well  driller.  And  the  driller  said,  "Yes,  I  will  drill  you  a  well.  I 
assume  you  want  the  usual  size  pipe,  six  or  eight  inches." 

President  Flake  said:    "No,  I  want  a  twelve-inch  pipe." 

The  well  driller  replied:  "Man,  you  are  foolish.  There  isn't 
enough  water  in  this  country  to  fill  a  twelve-inch  pipe,  and  further- 
more, I  wouldn't  take  your  money  to  drill  a  well  of  that  size  be- 
cause it  would  be  a  waste  of  money."  And  so  he  refused  to  drill 
the  well. 

But,  undaunted,  President  Flake  went  to  another  well  driller 
in  a  neighboring  community.  He  told  the  man  what  he  wanted. 
The  man  said:   "Well,  it  seems  foolish,  but  nevertheless  if  you 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

JZ,U  ,      c  Third  Day 

Sunday.  October  5 

want  to  spend  the  money,  I  will  drill  the  hole  and  put  a  twelve- 

inch  P1Peteinw1^s  sejecteci  for  the  well  on  a  piece  of  arid  land  adja- 
cent to  Snowflake,  Arizona,  and  drilling  operations  were  com- 
menced After  the  men  had  drilled  for  a  few  days,  a  govexnment 
man  came  along,  and  he  said:  "Mr.  Flake,  I  think  you  are  foolish 
in  drilling  for  water  here.  I  am  quite  sure  that  you  won  t  find  any. 
It  is  my  judgment  had  you  gone  over  here  a  short  distance  the 
possibilities  are  that  you  might  have  found  a  little  water." 

But  again,  undaunted  and  believing  imphcity  in  the  counsel 
of  one  of  God's  servants,  the  drilling  continued  and  after  reach- 
ing a  depth  of  two  hundred  feet,  a  flow  of  water  was  struck  in  suf- 
ficient amount  to  fill  the  twelve-inch  pipe  up  within  sixty  feet  of  the 
surface.  The  ground  was  broken,  cultivated,  and  crops  were 
planted.  A  pump  was  placed  on  the  well,  and  it  delivered  nine 
hundred  gallons  a  minute.  This  year  the  crops  grown  on  what 
was  arid  land  two  years  ago  will  pay  for  the  drilling  of  the  well  and 
the  pumping  equipment  installed. 

President  Flake  further  indicated  that  the  volume  of  water 
has  been  sufficient,  not  only  to  take  care  of  this  year's  crop,  but 
also  will  be  sufficient  to  irrigate  a  total  of  175  acres. 

President  Flake  followed  the  counsel  of  one  of  Christ's  apostles 
and  received  the  blessing  for  obedience  rendered,  which  brings 
us  to  the  conclusion  that  we  should  hearken  always  to  the  voices 
of  the  prophets  to  the  end  that  the  windows  of  heaven  will  be  open 
to  us — spiritually  and  temporally. 

Obligation  of  Priesthood 

So  much  for  temporal  counsel,  but  what  about  spiritual  counsel? 
We  have  had  an  abundance  of  it  during  this  great  conference. 
Think  if  you  will  of  the  admonitions  that  have  come  to  us  with  ref- 
erence to  the  home,  the  matter  of  family  prayers,  the  matter  of  at- 
tending that  most  important  meeting  of  the  whole  week,  namely, 
the  sacrament  meeting.  Will  you  think  of  your  priesthood  re- 
sponsibilities as  servants  of  God?  I  say  that  every  man  who  holds 
the  priesthood  has  a  responsibility  that  is  very  great,  and  priest- 
hood is  of  no  value  to  an  individual  unless  he  uses  it  in  the  service 
of  God.  It  does  not  come  to  you  as  an  honorary  office.  It  comes 
to  you  that  you  might  serve  God  and  assist  him  to  consummate  his 
plans.  And,  furthermore,  the  priesthood  of  God,  that  mantle  of 
authority  which  rests  upon  your  shoulders  and  mine,  is  not  one 
which  can  be  taken  off  on  Sunday  evening  and  left  off  during  the 
week  and  then  put  on  again  the  following  Sunday  morning.  Your 
priesthood  is  with  you  wherever  you  may  go,  in  the  office  or  the 
field,  and  remember  that  priesthood  demands  of  you  lives  that  are 
wholly  compatible  with  it  in  purity,  in  service,  in  hearkening  to 
counsel  and  in  keeping  God's  commandments. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


127 


A  Light  to  the  World 

We  have  received  admonitions  with  reference  to  virtue,  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  temple  work,  and  missionary  work.  I  want  to 
say  if  we  will  hearken  unto  all  of  this  counsel  we  will  become  a 
blessed  people,  for  Brigham  Young  declared  again: 

If  we  hearken  to  counsel,  we  shall  be  the  best  people  in  the  world; 
we  shall  be  as  a  bright  light  set  upon  a  hill,  that  cannot  be  hid,  or  like  a 
candle  upon  a  candlestick.  (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p.  219.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  never  let  us  forget  the  admonition  that: 

...  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the  fat  of 
rams.  (I  Sam.  15:22.) 

Yes, 

Give  instructions  to  a  wise  man,  and  he  will  yet  be  wiser;  teach  a 
just  man,  and  he  will  increase  in  learning.  (Proverbs  9:9.) 

I  humbly  pray  that  we  can  take  the  counsels  of  this  great  con- 
ference to  heart  and  exemplify  them  in  our  lives,  to  the  end  that 
we  will  be  a  light  to  the  world,  for  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph: 

.  .  .  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may  be  a  standard  for  the  nations. 
(D.  &  C.  115:5.) 

That  is  our  destiny,  and  we  can  achieve  it  if  we  will  follow 
the  admonitions  and  the  counsels  of  these  servants  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  they  have  all  of  the 
same  rights  and  authority  to  lead  the  people  of  the  world  in  right- 
eousness as  did  Noah,  Isaiah,  or  any  of  the  apostles  of  old.  I  bear 
testimony  to  you  that  the  same  God  who  dealt  with  the  people  in 
the  days  of  Noah  is  your  God  and  my  God,  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
was  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  the  humble  man  who  was 
murdered  in  cold  blood  for  his  testimony  in  Carthage  Jail,  Joseph 
Smith,  was  God's  servant,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  inspiring  music  of  our  great  choir  and  organ,  both  in  the 
broadcast  this  morning  and  in  this  service,  and  also  the  timely, 
masterful  address  of  President  McKay,  and  the  interesting  talk  of 
Bishop  Wirthlin,  have  all  tended,  I  am  sure,  to  uplift  us,  to  bring 
us  nearer  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  others  on  the  other  side. 

It  is  my  earnest  desire  and  prayer,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  say  something  useful,  something  that  will  be  helpful  to  us,  that 
will  bring  more  happiness  and  joy  into  our  daily  lives.  One  of  my 
favorite  themes,  already  mentioned  by  one  or  two  of  the  speakers,  is, 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

Sunday.  October  5 

Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy.  (II  Nephi  2:25.) 

Activity  Brings  Joy 

Work  is  a  great  blessing;  activity  brings  joy.  Last  Sunday,  I 
was  in  California,  attending  the  Inglewood  Stake  conference.  Some 
of  you  have  already  read  in  last  week's  issue  of  the  Church  Section 
of  the  News  of  some  of  the  activities  of  this  stake,  especially  of 
their  building  program.  There  was  one  achievement  not  referred 
to  in  the  article,  that  I  should  like  to  mention.  Last  summer,  in 
California  they  had  some  of  their  "unusual"  weather,  quite  an  ex- 
tended hot  spell,  and  the  entire  apricot  crop  ripened  so  rapidly  that 
it  became  necessary  to  harvest  it  or  it  would  be  wasted.  This  was 
called  to  the  attention  of  the  southern  California  regional  welfare 
officers.  Through  them,  attention  was  called  to  the  stakes  in  that 
region.  I  do  not  know  what  other  stakes  accomplished,  but  one 
day  was  set  aside  by  the  Inglewood  Stake  members  for  picking, 
and  as  a  result  they  have  now  25,777  cans  of  apricots  in  their  stake 
storehouse  and  in  their  homes. 

Just  a  month  ago  today  I  was  in  the  Burley  Stake  conference 
in  Idaho.  At  the  conclusion  of  that  conference  the  president  arose 
and  casually  announced  that  the  beet  harvesting  for  this  year  had 
been  set  by  the  officials  of  the  sugar  factory  to  begin  on  a  certain 
date.  "We  would  like  to  harvest  our  welfare  crops  before  we  begin 
on  our  own."  A  time  was  decided  on  for  that  purpose.  He  said: 
"We  would  like  to  harvest  the  entire  crop  on  these  two  days." 

I  had  visited  these  projects,  and  had  seen  the  extent  of  them, 
and  so  I  arose  and  said:  "If  you  accomplish  this,  will  you  kindly 
send  me  a  telegram  collect?  If  you  don't  you  needn't  say  anything 
about  it." 

Last  Sunday,  while  at  the  Inglewood  Stake  conference,  just  at 
the  beginning  of  the  ten-thirty  session,  this  telegram  was  handed  me. 

Burley,  Idaho 

Thomas  E.  McKay 

Care  President  Alfred  E.  Rohner 

Brother  McKay: 

Members  of  Burley  Stake  harvested  40  acres  of  potatoes  Friday,  26th; 
ten  acres  potatoes,  27  acres  of  beets,  and  cut  five  acres  of  corn  Saturday 
the  27th.  People  present  both  days,  approximately  900.  Trucks,  50. 
Tractors,  25.  Potato  diggers,  18.  Five  beet  diggers.  Relief  Society 
served  lunch.   Thanks  for  challenge  you  made  at  conference. 

Sincerely, 
Burley   Stake  Conference 

Congratulations,  members  of  Burley  Stake! 

There  are  now,  168  stakes  in  the  Church,  as  we  were  told 
yesterday  by  President  Richard  L.  Evans  in  his  well-worded,  I  was 
going  to  say,  musically-worded  address  on  the  growth  of  the 
Church.  Seventy-eight  of  these  are  outside  of  Utah,  all  active  and 
doing  splendid  work.    As  one  investigator  friend  stated:  "You 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


129 


all  seem  to  know  one  another  here — just  like  one  large  happy 
family." 

It  is  a  privilege  to  visit  these  stakes,  and  especially  thrilling  to 
find  so  many  of  our  members  active  now  and  in  prominent  positions 
who  were  not  so  active  in  their  home  wards  and  stakes.  As  one 
of  them  told  me:  "At  home  I  belonged  to  that  group,  that  rather 
large  group  that  you  referred  to  as  who  treat  their  religion  as  a 
spare  tire;  they  never  use  it  except  in  times  of  emergency.  Also," 
he  continued,  "we  had  time  on  our  hands  which  we  used  in  finding 
fault  with  the  brethren  and  the  Church,  looking  for  the  thorn  on  the 
rose,  and  the  dirt  on  the  lily,  instead  of  for  the  flowers  themselves." 

Story  of  Japanese  Philosopher 

He  was  referring,  as  you  know,  to  that  story  that  I  like  to  tell 
of  the  Japanese  philosopher  who  was  accustomed  to  going  out  into 
the  hills  and  woods  to  study  the  laws  of  nature.  After  spending  a 
day  in  such  study,  he  would  return  to  his  village  at  night,  where 
he  would  gather  his  people  around  him  and  instruct  them  in  the 
lessons  which  he  had  learned.  One  day  one  of  his  friends  came 
to  him  saying,  "Will  you  please  bring  me  a  hawthorn  twig  when 
you  come  back,  that  I  can  study  the  lesson  you  gave  last  week 
from  that  tree?"  "Yes,"  said  the  philosopher,  "I  will  bring  you  the 
twig  tonight,"  and  a  second  one  of  his  friends  that  morning  said, 
"Will  you  bring  me  a  rose,  that  I  may  study  concerning  the  lecture 
you  gave  last  evening?"  "Yes,  I'll  bring  you  the  rose."  And  just 
before  the  philosopher  went  through  the  gate  of  the  town  that 
morning,  a  third  friend  said,  "Will  you  bring  me  a  lily  that  I  might 
study  the  lesson  of  purity  you  gave  last  evening?"  The  philosopher 
promised  to  bring  the  lily. 

In  the  evening  about  sundown  when  the  old  philosopher  re- 
turned to  the  village,  the  three  friends  were  waiting  at  the  gate  to 
welcome  him.  To  the  first  he  gave  the  hawthorn  twig;  to  the  sec- 
ond he  gave  the  rose;  and  to  the  third  he  gave  the  lily.  Suddenly 
the  man  with  the  hawthorn  twig  cried,  "Here  is  a  dead  leaf  on  the 
stem  of  my  hawthorn  twig!"  The  second  said,  "Here  is  a  thorn 
on  the  stem  of  my  rose!"  and  the  third  one  cried,  "Here  is  dirt  on 
the  roots  of  my  lily!" 

"Let  me  see,"  said  the  philosopher.  From  the  first  he  took  the 
hawthorn  twig;  from  the  second,  he  took  the  rose,  and  from  the 
third  he  took  the  lily.  He  plucked  the  dead  leaf  from  the  hawthorn 
twig  and  gave  it  to  the  first  friend.  He  plucked  the  thorn  from  the 
stem  of  the  rose  and  gave  it  to  the  second.  He  took  the  dirt  from 
the  roots  of  the  lily  and  put  it  into  the  hands  of  the  third.  Holding 
the  hawthorn  twig,  the  rose,  and  the  lily,  he  said:  "Now,  each 
of  you  has  what  attracted  you  first.  You  looked  for  the  dead  leaf, 
and  you  found  it.  You  looked  for  the  thorn;  it  was  there.  You 
found  the  dirt  of  the  lily  because  I  left  it  on  the  roots.  You  may 
keep  what  attracted  you  first.  I  will  keep  the  hawthorn  twig,  the 
lily,  and  the  rose,  for  the  beauty  I  see  in  them." 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Thicd  Da» 

We  find  in  this  world  just  about  what  we  are  looking  for.  If 
we  look  for  dirt  and  the  sordid  things,  we  can  find  them;  or  if  we 
look  for  mistakes  in  others  we  can  find  them  also.  If  we  look  for 
the  good  and  the  beautiful  the  good  and  the  beautiful  will  return 
to  us.  There  is  no  place  for  hate  in  the  heart  of  a  Latter-day  Saint, 
or  of  any  other  true  Christian. 

.  Love  your  enemies,  bless  those  that  curse  you,  do  good  to 
them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you,  and 
persecute  you.  (Matt.  5:44.) 

That  is  the  doctrine  of  the  Savior. 

Hate  incapacitates  anyone  from  doing  one's  best,  no  matter 
whether  it  is  hate  for  a  person  or  for  a  people. 

Whom  the  gods  destroy,  they  first  make  mad.  (Euripides.) 

Hate,  envy,  jealousy,  ingratitude,  intolerance  are  all  weapons  used 
by  Satan  to  thwart  the  purposes  of  God. 

The  Love  of  Money 

One  of  the  main  weapons,  I  think,  not  mentioned  very  often, 
one  that  creeps  upon  us  very  quietly,  is  the  love  of  money.  The 
love  of  money,  we  are  told,  is  at  the  root  of  all  evil.  You  may  not 
agree  with  me,  some  of  you,  in  what  I  am  going  to  say  now,  but  I 
believe  that  one  of  the  main  reasons  why  it  is  so  difficult  for  some  of 
our  members  to  pay  tithing  is  because  Satan  does  not  want  us  to 
pay  tithing.  He  puts  all  kinds  of  excuses  in  our  way,  because  he 
knows  that  a  person  or  a  people  who  will  pay  tithing  will  never 
worship  gold  instead  of  God.  We  are  so  bent,  I  was  going  to  say 
hell-bent,  on  getting  rich,  making  money,  that  we  miss  some  of  the 
sweetest  things  in  life,  brethren  and  sisters.  We  never  have  time 
to  look  up  at  the  beautiful  blue  sky  or  enjoy  our  wonderful  sunsets 
or  see  the  beautiful  flowers  and  the  bluebird  hopping  from  post  to 
post  or  hear  the  song  of  the  meadowlark  as  we  speed  along  the 
highways.  We  have  no  time  to  go  into  these  colorful  canyons  with 
our  families  and  occasionally  take  a  fishing  trip,  something  unpardon- 
able. No,  we  are  too  busy  for  these  things.  Yes,  the  love  of  money, 
the  use  of  tobacco,  liquor — Brother  Merrill  referred  to  in  his  splendid 
address  yesterday — are  weapons  of  Satan  that  he  is  using  to  thwart 
the  purposes  of  God. 

President  Smith  has  advised  us,  and  I  like  the  way  he  puts  it, 
to  keep  away  from  the  devil's  territory.  This  is  rather  a  large 
order,  at  least  according  to  Mark  Twain  who  said: 

I  want  to  see  the  devil,  just  to  set  my  eyes  on  that  person  who 
for  untold  centuries  has  been  the  spiritual  head  of  four-fifths  of  the 
human  race  and  the  political  head  of  all  of  it. 

That  statement  may  be  a  little  exaggerated,  but  this  part  I  do 
agree  with,  "he  must  surely  have  executive  ability  of  the  highest 
order."    I  think  we  would  do  well  to  follow  President  Smith's  ad- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


vice  to  keep  away  from  his  territory;  and  "enter  ye  in  at  the  strait 
gate."  (Matthew  7:13.)  Overcome  evil  with  good,  resist  the  devil, 
and  he  will  flee  from  you. 

Our  Father  in  heaven,  brothers  and  sisters,  is  our  Father.  He 
loves  us  and  because  he  loves  us  he  has  given  us  the  gospel,  every 
principle  and  commandment  of  which  is  for  our  happiness  in  this 
life.  Honoring  parents,  keeping  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  refraining 
from  taking  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain,  attendance  at  our  sacra- 
ment and  priesthood  meetings,  remaining  honest,  true,  chaste,  benev- 
olent, virtuous,  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  paying  tithing  and 
our  fast  offerings — all  these  are  given  to  us  that  we  might  have  joy 
in  this  life. 

Fast  Offering  Plan  Recommended 

When  I  mention  fast  offerings,  my  heart  goes  out  to  our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  Europe  and  to  the  starving  millions  in  the 
war-torn  countries.  I  wish  we  could  do  more  to  establish  fast  offer- 
ings in  the  world.  I  hope  I  am  not  speaking  out  of  line,  but  I 
would  like  to  see  this  great  gathering  endorse  a  resolution  to  the 
United  Nations  recommending  as  a  means  of  helping  the  starving 
millions  in  the  war-torn  countries  the  adoption  of  the  fast  offering 
plan  of  the  Church. 

May  we  have  a  greater  desire,  greater  faith,  greater  will  power 
to  live  in  accordance  with  the  great  gospel  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
as  revealed  in  our  day  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "For  the  Strength 
of  the  Hills  We  Bless  Thee"— (Stephens).   L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  118. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  gather  periodically  in  the  conferences  of  the  Church,  or 
listen  over  the  radio  to  the  proceedings  as  a  part  of  our  worship,  in 
order  that  we  may  be  refreshed  in  our  faith  and  edified  in  our 
concepts  and  duties.  I  am  sure  that  the  sessions  of  the  present 
conference  have  served  us  well  in  these  respects.  It  is  my  earnest 
desire  that  I  may  contribute  a  little  to  the  stimulation  and  encour- 
agement we  are  receiving. 

Bearers  of  the  Gospel  Message 

I  know  of  few  things  more  stirring  to  our  faith  and  devotion 
in  this  noble  cause  with  which  we  have  the  honor  to  be  identified 
than  a  clear  realization  of  its  lofty  purposes  among  the  children  of 
men.  Perhaps  it  is  not  given  to  many  of  us  to  see  the  over-all 
picture  in  its  perfection.  We  can  only  try  with  the  equipment  at 
our  command  to  make  the  world  understand  the  importance  and 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Da* 

vitality  of  the  message  we  bear.  After  we  have  done  our  best  in 
thought,  word,  and  action,  we  can  but  pray  that  the  Lord  will  add 

his  blessing.  .  ' 

We  want  the  world  to  understand  the  position  of  this  Church. 
We  are  propagandists  for  its  doctrines  and  principles.  Unfortu- 
nately, that  word  has  come  to  have  a  rather  unsavory  connotation, 
for,  in  its  correct  meaning,  it  describes  us.  We  are  converted  bear- 
ers'of  a  message  which  we  are  charged  to  give  to  the  world.  We 
cannot  shrink  from  that  obligation  and  be  loyal  to  the  cause.  We 
bear  this  message  to  our  fellow  men,  not  only  because  we  are  com- 
manded so  to  do  but  also  because  we  have  in  our  hearts  a  deep  re- 
gard for  the  welfare  of  men  and  a  Christian  desire  to  help  them. 
We  are  fully  convinced  that  the  message  we  have  for  them  is  the 
greatest  boon  which  can  come  into  their  lives. 

Now,  what  is  this  message  which  this  Church  carries  to  man- 
kind? Naturally,  within  the  limitations  of  these  brief  remarks,  I 
cannot  attempt  to  present  more  than  aspects  of  it  and  that  merely 
in  outline.  If  I  can  do  that  in  the  common  language  we  speak  today 
with  any  measure  of  clarity,  I  shall  be  very  grateful. 

Message  Defines  Religion 

This  message  defines  religion.  It  interprets  all  phases  of  a 
man's  existence  in  terms  of  religion.  There  is  no  part  of  living  not 
influenced  by  it.  Our  thoughts,  our  environment,  our  education,  our 
companionships  and  associations,  our  health,  our  concepts  of  wealth, 
government,  and  society  in  the  scope  of  this  message  are  all  religious 
considerations.  Religion  therefore  becomes  not  a  philosophy  apart 
from  life  to  be  held  up  for  scrutiny,  criticism,  and  debate.  Rather, 
it  is  an  integrated  way  of  life,  a  system  and  program  of  individual 
and  community  living  under  eternal  law  which  man  did  not  make 
and  cannot  change. 

Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  the  other  day  told  us  so  impressively 
how  it  cannot  be  compromised.  When  a  man  comes  to  know  and 
feel  such  an  interpretation  of  religion,  it  completely  dominates  his 
appraisals,  his  choices,  and  his  judgment.  Many  would  character- 
ize such  a  man  as  a  fanatic,  and  he  would  be  a  fanatic  if  his  religion 
were  not  true  and  the  divine  source  of  wisdom. 


Religion  A  Motivating  Force 

Have  the  critics  of  such  an  exact  religion  ever  set  out  the  merits 
of  religion  in  moderation?  I  thank  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  for 
defining  that  word  for  me  in  his  remarks  of  the  broadcast  this 
morning.  Sunday  religion,  it  is  sometimes  called,  the  kind  men  carry 
in  their  wives'  names.  How  do  they  justify  a  partial  acceptance 
of  divine  law  and  principle?  Surely  consistency  would  demand  that 
if  the  source  of  religion  is  accredited,  the  application  must  be  uni- 
versal and  unvaried.  I  can  understand  how  many  men  have  not 
accepted  interpretations  of  divine  law  and  religion,  how  many  have 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  133 


rebelled  against  the  practices  of  religionists,  but  if  religion  is  ac- 
cepted at  all,  I  cannot  see  how  logical,  clear-thinking  minds  can 
take  it  for  any  less  than  what  it  really  is — the  motivating,  all- 
controlling  force  in  the  life  of  man  and  the  organization  of  the 
universe. 

I  wonder  if  we  are  able  to  appreciate  what  such  an  interpretation 
of  religion  if  widely  accepted  would  do  for  the  world  today?  Here 
are  a  few  of  the  things  I  feel  it  would  accomplish.  It  would  remove 
uncertainty  and  doubt  as  to  the  principles  and  standards  which 
should  be  observed  in  reaching  decisions  on  all  matters,  personal, 
social,  national,  and  international.  What  a  tremendous  gain  it 
would  be  if  the  answer  to  the  age-old  question,  "What  is  right?" 
could  be  found  by  most  men  to  be  in  the  acceptance  of  the  divine 
source  of  right.  Here  again  appears  the  inconsistency  and  futility 
of  the  position  of  the  so-called  partial  religionists.  Pretty  generally 
throughout  the  world  recognition  is  given  to  the  divine  laws  against 
killing,  adultery,  stealing,  and  lying,  and  little  question  is  raised 
regarding  the  source  and  perpetuity  of  these  regulations  of  human 
conduct.  Where  is  the  justification  for  discrimination  against  the 
other  laws  exacting  worship  and  obedience  to  the  God  of  the  uni- 
verse and  proscribing  idolatry,  blasphemy,  and  desecration  of  the 
Lord's  holy  day?  The  laws  commanding  worship  and  reverence  for 
our  divine  and  earthly  parents  constitute  one-half  of  the  Decalogue, 
and  remember  they  come  first.  In  the  interpretation  of  religion  we 
give  to  the  world  they  are  first,  in  practice  as  well  as  in  theology. 

Religion  Needed  in  World  Affairs 

Do  you  think  that  if  such  an  interpretation  of  religion  were 
widespread,  even  among  the  Christian  nations  of  the  earth  we  could 
have  any  such  spectacle  of  discord  and  intrigue  as  the  nations  of  the 
world  have  recently  presented  to  disgusted  and  discouraged  people 
all  over  the  earth?  Have  you  ever  heard  of  a  voice  being  raised  in 
any  of  the  sessions  of  the  United  Nations  since  its  inception  more 
than  two  years  ago  protesting  the  infractions  of  God's  laws  or  im- 
portuning his  help  in  achieving  the  purposes  of  that  organization? 
I  think  you  have  not,  unless  perhaps  in  some  innocuous  way,  because 
I  suspect  that  it  is  tacitly  agreed  that  God  and  religion  shall  be  shut 
out  of  the  proceedings.  Well,  my  friends,  it  is  a  part  of  the  message 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  bears  to  the 
world  that  God  and  religion  cannot  be  shut  out  from  the  consideration 
of  world  affairs  without  mortal  hazard  to  the  cause  of  goodness  and 
peace. 

Inalienable  Rights 

I  have  read  and  heard  a  good  many  statements  by  eminent  writ- 
ers and  speakers  to  the  effect  that  our  liberty  of  which  we  are  justly 
proud  is  an  achievement  and  not  a  gift.  In  the  sense  that  it  had  to  be 
worked  for,  fought  for,  and  preserved  with  vigilance  these  statements 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

are  true.  But  let  it  never  be  forgotten  that  our  concept  of  liberty  is 
a  gift.  No  human  is  the  author  of  that  concept.  Many  great  men 
have  so  recognized  it  as  did  Thomas  Jefferson  when  he  wrote  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  and  declared  that  "men  are  endowed 
with  certain  inalienable  rights."  Why  are  these  rights  inalienable? 
Because  men  did  not  create  the  right  to  liberty!  In  the  exercise  of  his 
free  agency  he  may  surrender  his  privileges,  and  his  property,  and  he 
may  become  the  slave  of  others  or  of  the  state,  but  his  free  agency  is 
as  native  to  him  as  the  air  he  breathes.^  It  is  part  and  parcel  of  his 
eternal  constitution,  and  Jefferson  was  "righter  than  I  think  he  him- 
self knew  when  he  declared  it  an  endowment  which  cannot  be  alien- 
ated. 

The  message  which  we  bear  affirms  that  God  is  the  Author  of 
our  inalienable  liberty;  that  men,  all  men  are  of  noble  lineage,  sons 
and  daughters  of  the  Eternal  Father;  and  that  liberty  is  their  birth- 
right. I  think  that  prior  to  the  advent  of  the  restored  gospel  a  lit- 
tle over  a  century  ago  there  was  no  such  understanding  of  the  precious 
gift  of  liberty  as  there  is  today.  In  his  latter-day  revelations  the 
Lord  has  set  forth  much  concerning  it,  but  I  thank  God  that  before 
these  revelations  came,  noble  men  were  blessed  with  this  lofty  con- 
cept of  man's  inherent  right  to  liberty  and  that  they  were  prompted 
to  incorporate  these  divine  principles  in  the  organic  law  and  history 
of  our  favored  land. 


Need  for  Divine  Aid 

Now  I  know  that  there  are  many  in  Christian  nations  and  many 
in  prominent  places  who  accede  to  this  taboo  on  religion  in  the  con- 
sideration of  national  and  world  affairs.  They  seem  to  think  that 
they  can  fight  aggressive,  atheistic  communism  without  uttering  a 
word  in  defense  and  exposition  of  divinely-given  concepts,  and  with- 
out even  seeking  divine  aid  in  the  preservation  of  divine  principles 
for  the  race.  I  do  not  pretend  to  qualify  or  speak  as  an  expert  on 
international  affairs,  but  I  am  sure  that  I  voice  the  sentiment  and 
feeling  of  millions  of  God-loving  people  over  the  world  when  I  assert 
that  the  sooner  the  issues  now  confronting  the  nations  are  recog- 
nized as  a  moral  conflict  between  right  and  wrong,  between  truth  and 
error,  between  Christ  and  anti-Christ,  the  sooner  will  come  the  solu- 
tion and  peace.  I  know  that  this  is  and  has  always  been  the  position 
of  this  Church.  There  are  prophecies,  ancient  and  modern,  state- 
ments and  declarations,  and  experience  to  support  this  position. 

Program  to  Meet  World  Crisis 

I  am  aware  of  what  some  may  say,  even  though  they  may  not  be 
unsympathetic  with  the  views  I  have  expressed.  They  ask:  Even 
though  the  time  has  come  for  a  "showdown"  between  the  forces  of 
good  and  the  forces  of  evil,  what  justifies  your  Church  with  its  rela- 
tively small  numbers,  short  history,  and  inconspicuous  place  in  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  ■  135 


world  of  religions  in  assuming  to  prescribe  a  program  of  religious 
concepts  and  action  to  meet  the  world  crisis  today?  Why  not  let 
the  great  religions  of  the  earth  take  the  burden  of  the  battle  and  you 
trail  along?  Well,  I  hesitate  a  little  to  give  my  answer  to  that  ques- 
tion. Not  because  I  am  not  sure  of  the  answer,  but  because  I  am 
fearful  about  hurting  feelings.    I  give  my  answer  in  three  parts: 

Failure  of  World  Religions 

First,  in  the  centuries  during  which  the  numerically  great  relig- 
ious denominations  of  the  world  have  dominated  the  religious  con- 
cepts and  actions  of  their  peoples  there  has  been  failure,  signal  fail- 
ure to  uphold  divine  standards  of  righteousness,  brotherly  love,  and 
peace.  These  great  religions,  however  good  the  intentions,  have 
proved  impotent  to  forestall  wars  and  to  prevent  barbarism,  brutal- 
ity, and  atrocities  such  as  the  world  has  seldom  known  even  in  its 
darkest  ages  and  this,  too  among  peoples  where  substantially  the 
whole  populace  professed  one  creed.  Of  course,  it  is  idle  to  con- 
jecture what  the  world  might  have  been  without  these  creeds.  No 
one  with  historical  knowledge  will  fail  to  acknowledge  their  contri- 
bution to  the  enlightment  and  culture  of  the  race,  but  as  a  source  of 
motivation  in  the  control  of  men's  greeds  and  passions  the  known 
results  are  certainly  not  encouraging. 

Answers  to  Life's  Questions 

Second,  the  ever-growing  quest  for  knowledge  among  the  en- 
lightened people  of  the  earth  demands  answers,  reliable  information 
on  questions  vital  to  life  and  its  meaning.  In  many  cases  science  has 
accentuated  the  importance  of  these  questions  and  has  done  much 
to  clarify  thinking  about  them,  but  science  has  seldom  given  the 
answers,  especially  in  the  fields  of  human  behavior  and  relationships. 
It  seems  indelicate,  I  know,  to  many  not  of  my  faith  for  me  to  assert 
that  we  have  the  answers.  I  mean,  of  course,  about  the  source,  the 
meaning,  and  purpose  of  life  and  the  government  of  man.  We  do  not 
know  and  cannot  say  just  why  the  Lord  did  not  commit  these  answers 
which  are  the  essence  of  the  holy  gospel  to  the  keeping  of  many  men 
in  many  nations,  but  we  do  know  that  he  committed  them  to  the 
custody  of  this  Church  through  those  whom  he  chose  to  initiate  his 
work  in  the  latter-days.  For  this  conviction  we  have  substantial 
proof,  evidence,  admissible  and  competent  evidence,  not  gathered 
from  the  debatable  sources  of  antiquity  but  from  witnesses  and  ex- 
periences within  recent  generations  of  men,  attested  and  recorded  to 
meet  all  reasonable  demands.  Here  is  God's  truth  and  his  latest 
word  for  the  direction  of  the  human  family.  In  application  it  has 
been  successful  and  not  a  failure. 

Divine  Commission  to  Act 

Third,  I  think  that  nearly  everyone  will  agree  that  to  sustain 
effectively  a  cause  one  must  have  the  authority  to  represent  it.  He 


136  •  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

must  be  a  part  of  it,  on  the  inside  and  not  on  the  outside.  He  must 
be  authorized  to  speak  for  it.  I  know  that  I  broach  a  controversial 
question  in  speaking  of  the  authority  to  represent  God  and  Christ  in 
the  earth.  Must  we  not  discuss  the  great  issues  of  the  world  because 
they  are  controversial,  out  of  fear  of  treading  on  someone's  senti-i 
mental  toes?  I  believe  that  thinking,  honest,  inquisitive  people  the 
world  over  want  the  truth  about  authority,  the  divine  commission 
to  set  up  the  Lord's  work  in  the  earth  to  administer  the  ordinances 
of  the  holy  gospel  and  to  interpret  his  word  and  will  for  the  guid- 
ance of  mankind.  Now,  there  is  much  incontrovertible  evidence  that 
I  might  review  here  today  in  support  of  the  claims  to  divine  auth- 
ority which  this  Church  makes.  I  am  not  going  to  present  this  evi- 
dence; time  will  not  permit;  and  many  of  you  who  listen  know  of  it.  I 
will  confine  my  comment  to  one  phase  of  this  subject  of  authority 
of  which  I  think  our  friends  of  the  world  have  a  very  inadequate 
conception. 

Is  it  not  logical  to  assume  that  God,  who  is  the  Father  of  all  men 
and  who  has  endowed  all  men  with  liberty  and  equality  of  opportun- 
ity, does  not  "play  favorites"?  If  it  be  regarded  as  a  blessing  and  an 
honor  to  represent  him,  is  there  any  good  reason  why  that  blessing 
and  dignity  should  not  be  conferred  on  all  of  his  sons  who  are 
worthy?  Do  you  know  of  any  warrant,  scriptural  or  otherwise,  for 
the  creation  and  maintenance  of  special  groups  of  spiritual  experts 
to  hold  the  authority  of  the  Lord  to  the  exclusion  of  other  good  men? 
What  justification  is  there  for  differentiation  among  loyal  and  true 
sons  of  God  by  the  clothes  they  wear?  Does  the  apparel  bring 
authority  or  is  it  essential  to  the  recognition  of  a  good  life  devoted 
to  the  Lord?  And  does  it  not  seem  reasonable  that  if  the  worthy  sons 
of  God  are  to  enjoy  his  companionship  in  the  world  to  come  as  a 
reward  for  their  faithful  labors  here  in  this  life  that  they  should  all 
bear  a  portion  of  his  power  and  be  endowed  with  a  part  of  his  spirit- 
ual intelligence  which  constitute  the  essence  of  divine  authority  and 
priesthood?  What  a  boon  it  would  be  to  the  world  if  all  men  under- 
stood the  nature  and  permanence  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  its  in- 
dispensable part  in  the  exaltation  of  a  man  and  his  family.  Well, 
unfortunately,  but  few  understand  it,  and  the  world  goes  along  cen- 
tury after  century  following  in  the  pattern  of  form  and  tradition,  and 
influenced  more  by  the  display  of  pomp  and  pageantry  than  by  a 
sound  theology  manifest  in  practical,  living  religion.  That  consti- 
tutes my  answer  to  those  who  ask  why  we  cannot  trail  along  in  the 
wake  of  the  so-called  great  religions  in  defense  of  the  Christ  and 
his  way  of  life  in  the  crucial  contest  of  the  present  day. 

Church  to  Take  the  Lead 

It  then  follows,  as  I  see  it,  that  we  are  to  take  the  lead.  There 
is  no  one  to  follow  except  him  who  is  and  always  has  been  at  our 
head.  With  his  approval  leaders  have  been  selected  for  us.  They 
hold  no  more  or  any  different  kind  of  priesthood  from  the  humblest 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


good  man  in  the  kingdom,  but  they  have  a  special  commission  to 
guide  and  direct  our  efforts  in  establishing  the  kingdom  and  prosecut- 
ing its  work  in  the  world.  And  to  one  is  given  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom. We  will  follow  their  leadership,  and  they  will  not  lead  us 
astray,  for  they  are  unselfishly  devoted  to  our  interests  and  theix 
wisdom  is  inspired. 

There  is  a  hungry  world  about  us,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters, 
a  challenging,  hungry  world.  People  need  food  for  the  body,  food 
for  the  soul.  We  haven't  the  millions  necessary  to  build  and  clothe 
their  bodies.  If  we  had,  I  think  we  would  do  it  so  that  no  one  would 
suffer.  We  do  what  we  can.  We  do  have  in  our  possession,  how- 
ever, what  stricken  humanity  needs  to  satisfy  its  hungry  soul  and 
revive  hope  and  confidence  for  peace  and  security.  The  message  we 
bear  is  one  of  enlightment  to  the  statesman  as  well  as  the  pauper.  It 
teaches  that  enduring  happiness  is  to  be  found  only  in  goodness  and 
that  the  highest  tribute  to  the  Christ  is  the  tribute  of  a  good  life.  It 
teaches  that  strength,  the  strength  of  the  nation  as  so  well  portrayed 
by  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen  in  his  Church  of  the  Air  address  this 
morning,  is  the  product  of  that  goodness.  This  message  defines  God, 
not  as  an  intangible  principle  in  the  universe,  but  a  personality  with 
such  inexpressibly  beautiful,  admirable,  and  potent  attributes  as  to 
claim  the  everlasting  love,  confidence,  reverence,  and  adulation  of 
every  living  soul  who  comes  to  know  the  truth  about  him.  It  sets 
forth  a  brotherhood  which  in  spirit  and  application  transcends  any 
definition  of  that  relationship  the  world  has  known,  at  least  in 
modern  times.  It  brings  comfort  to  the  sorrowing.  It  rebukes 
avarice  and  places  the  world  of  business  on  the  high  plane  of  stew- 
ardship and  trusteeship  in  the  acquisition  and  distribution  of  the 
wealth  of  the  world.  It  brings  contentment  and  peace  of  mind.  It 
gives  unfailing  purpose  to  life.  It  accentuates  personality  in  every 
man,  woman,  and  child.  Indeed,  it  makes  all  things — government 
and  even  the  Church  itself — subservient  to  the  eternal  welfare  of 
man. 

If  I  could  have  my  wish  today,  it  would  be  that  everyone  of 
God's  children  could  hear  this  glorious  message  and  earnestly  give 
consideration  to  it.  I  am  sure  that  thereby  there  would  come  into 
countless  hearts  through  the  whisperings  of  the  spirit  that  joy  and 
happiness  which  attend  our  own  testimonies  of  the  truth.  Through 
our  missionary  system  we  have  made  a  tremendous  contribution  to 
this  end,  but  it  is  not  enough.  We  must  find  new  ways  to  inform 
and  persuade  the  world,  and  if  we  are  faithful  and  truly  devoted, 
God  will  open  the  way.    That  is  my  conviction. 

I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  this  is  his  kingdom.  He  will 
never  desert  it.  God  help  all  of  us  never  to  desert  him,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

ELDER  RICHARD  E.  FOLLAND 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

When  President  Eugene  Cannon  was  called  up  here  a  couple 
of  days  ago  and  said  he  had  waited  for  seven  years  for  this,  I  began 
to  wonder  if  I  were  going  to  have  to  sit  on  the  uneasy  seat  for  another 
four  years.  I  have  dreamed  of  this  occasion  more  than  once,  brothers 
and  sisters;  and  although  I  have  never  really  thought  that  I  would 
enjoy  standing  in  front  of  such  a  huge  audience,  I  was  anxious  to 
have  the  privilege  of  bringing  to  the  body  of  the  Church  here  the 
greetings  of  those  good  Latter-day  Saints  in  that  far-off  mission 
field. 

I  believe  that  it  is  probably  the  smallest,  big  mission  field  in  the 
Church.  We  have  about  seventeen  hundred  members  in  the  Union 
of  South  Africa  and  in  the  Rhodesias.  Of  course  they  are  not  all 
active  members,  but  we  have  some  that  are  mighty  good  members. 
Many  of  whom  would  give  most  anything  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  coming  here  and  sitting  in  an  audience  of  this  kind. 

I  might  tell  you  what  I  think  was  an  example  of  very  good 
faith.  One  of  our  good  members  down  there  that  used  to  very  proud- 
ly boast  of  having  been  a  member  of  the  Church  for  over  thirty  years, 
had  the  misfortune  to  lose  his  wife.  At  the  time  that  she  was  dying, 
he  asked  her  if  she  wanted  to  be  sealed  to  him.  She  said  that  she 
did.  So  this  good  brother  began  immediately  to  save  his  money  in 
order  to  come  here  to  Salt  Lake  City  to  go  to  the  Temple  of  the  Lord 
and  have  his  wife  sealed  to  him.  This  man  was  a  Scotchman,  but  he 
was  a  very  fine  Scotchman;  he  paid  his  tithings  (I  mean  that  literally). 
He  was  frugal,  but  he  paid  his  tithings  and  his  offerings;  and  while 
he  was  saving  his  money  to  come  here  to  go  to  this  Temple — which 
it  seems  a  lot  of  us  just  take  for  granted  and  don't  put  ourselves  out 
too  much  to  attend — one  of  my  predecessors  went  to  him  and  said, 
"Brother  Wilson,  we  need  some  more  missionaries.  Can  we  have 
Tom?''  Brother  Wilson  said:  "If  Tom  is  willing  to  go,  you  can  have 
Tom." 

Tom  spent  two  years  in  the  mission  field  in  South  Africa. 
Brother  Wilson  kept  him  on  that  mission.  When  his  mission  was 
finished,  another  of  my  predecessors  asked  him  for  John.  So  John 
fulfilled  a  two-year  mission  in  South  Africa.  At  the  end  of  that 
time  Brother  Wilson  had  accumulated  sufficient  money  to  come  these 
thirteen  thousand  miles  to  Salt  Lake  City. 

I  am  telling  you  this  because  of  the  effect  it  had  on  us  when  he 
returned  to  South  Africa.  Brother  Wilson  came  here  to  Salt  Lake 
City  and  he  wasn't  looking  for  the  "dirt  on  the  lily";  he  was  looking 
for  other  things  and  he  found  them.  When  he  returned  to  South 
Africa,  after  having  visited  some  of  the  historic  spots  of  Mormonism 
on  his  way  out  here  and  on  his  way  back,  Brother  Wilson  praised 
what  he  found  here  in  more  glowing  terms  than  any  of  our  mission- 
aries dared  to  speak  of  our  Mormon  people. 


ELDER  RICHARD  E.  FOLLAND 


He  had  been  privileged  to  go  through  the  Temple,  and  he  had 
been  privileged  to  meet  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

We  had  him  go  through  the  mission  and  tell  his  story.  He  was 
well  respected  in  South  Africa  by  many  hundreds  of  people,  and  his 
story  probably  went  further  than  some  of  our  stories  would. 

I  think  that  that  is  a  very  fine  example  of  how  careful  we  should 
be  in  living  our  religion.  I  have  been  particularly  impressed  by  it 
since  returning  home  and  seeing  so  many  strange  people  in  our  midst. 
I  couldn't  help  but  think  of  what  a  different  story  Brother  Wilson 
might  have  come  down  with  if  he  had  found  some  of  the  "dirt  on  the 
lily."  I  even  had  to  tell  Brother  Wilson  when  he  read  some  of  the 
stories  in  the  newspaper  that  he  wanted  me  to  refute  "Now,  Brother 
Wilson,  you  have  been  in  Salt  Lake  since  I  have,  and  I  am  glad  that 
you  found  the  fine  things  there;  but  I  want  you  to  remember  that  we 
also  have  some  things  that  can  and  should  be  improved  upon." 

Now  I  would  like  to  just  tell  you  a  word  or  two  about  our  mis- 
sion. We  have  about  seventeen  hundred  members  in  the  South 
African  Mission.  We  have  about  two  million  white  people  to  work 
with — or  Europeans,  as  we  call  them  down  there.  There  are  about 
eight  million  of  the  non-Europeans,  or  the  colored  races.  So  that  it 
is  quite  a  problem  for  some  of  our  missionaries,  and  particularly  for 
some  of  our  converts. 

It  is  a  wonderful  country,  a  grand  country,  with  a  wonderful 
climate  and  some  glorious  opportunities.  It  is  also  a  country  which 
has  many,  many  problems  yet  to  solve.  I  am  happy  to  know  that  we 
now  have  more  missionaries  down  there.  We  had  the  good  fortune 
to  be  in  South  Africa  with  missionaries  for  a  little  more  than  two  and 
a  half  years.  Then  we  were  almost  four  years  without  a  single  mis- 
sionary. That  is  when  we  found  out  the  importance  of  teaching  and 
having  our  members  assume  the  responsibilities  that  they  should  as- 
sume in  the  Church.  It  was  quite  a  problem  to  us  for  a  little  while 
to  get  our  local  members,  who  had  been  accustomed,  many  of  them, 
to  letting  the  missionaries  do  all  the  work,  to  assume  these  responsibili- 
ties. Fortunately,  we  were  able  to  get  almost  enough  of  our  local 
people;  and  thanks  to  the  Relief  Society,  we  were  able  to  carry  on 
the  remaining  part  of  the  time  without  missionaries  and  do,  I  thought, 
a  fair  job. 

I  understand  that  President  Sharp  is  doing  a  splendid  work  and 
is  happy  with  having  more  missionaries  there  now.  The  war  did 
affect  us,  but  not  as  badly  as  in  parts  of  Europe.  We  had  no 
combat  in  our  area.  We  did  have  submarine  warfare  along  on  our 
coasts,  and  we  saw  a  great  many  convoys  of  all  the  Allied  Nations' 
soldiers.  We  were  fortunate  in  being  able  to  cooperate  with  other 
Americans  in  opening  an  American  club  after  the  United  States  got 
into  the  war,  and  greeting  a  large  number  of  our  boys.  We  were 
happy  for  that  opportunity. 

I  see  the  time  is  passing.  I  cannot  take  more  of  it;  but  I  want  to 
bear  my  testimony,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  have  had  many  things 
happen  to  me  in  the  mission  field,  particularly,  that  have  strengthened 


HO  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Da!f 

my  testimony  and  made  me  feel  thoroughly  convinced  that  this  is 
really  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  pray  to  our  Father  in  Heaven  that 
our  leaders  may  continue  to  receive  inspiration  and  revelation,  when 
necessary,  to  carry  on  the  affairs  of  this  great  organization,  and  I  do 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  J,  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

We  have  here  a  message  of  greeting  from  President  Scott 
Taggart  of  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission. 

"Austrian  Saints  assembled  in  conference  in  Vienna  send  greet- 
ings to  Church  Authorities  and  members  and  sincere  thanks  for  much 
needed  help  through  the  Welfare  Plan." — Scott  Taggart 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing: 

"Surely  He  Hath  Borne  Our  Griefs" — (From  the  Messiah — 
Handel). 

The  prayer  will  be  offered  by  H.  Ray  Hatch  of  the  North  Idaho 
Falls  Stake,  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceedings 
of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
the  other  stations  that  were  read  at  the  beginning  of  this  meeting. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later 
than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  for  opening. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Surely  He  Hath  Borne  Our  Griefs" — (From 
"Messiah"  by  Handel ) . 

President  H.  Ray  Hatch  of  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  at  2  o'clock 
p.m.,  Sunday,  October  5. 

Again  the  building  was  crowded  to  capacity,  and  as  was  the 
case  at  the  morning  meeting,  the  Assembly  Hall  was  crowded,  and 
a  large  number  of  people  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  ser- 
vices. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  141 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  hope  that  everybody  will  crowd  up  as  closely  as  possibly  to- 
gether and  make  seats  for  the  hundreds  of  people  who  are  standing. 
If  you  will  crowd  to  the  center  of  the  benches,  it  will  make  quite  a 
difference.    The  ushers  will  take  care  of  the  rest. 

This  is  the  closing  session  of  the  118th  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  at  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon,  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in 
Europe  presiding  over  the  European  Mission,  and  President  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young  who  is  in  the  New  England  Mission  presiding  there. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  the  other  stations  that  have  already  been  an- 
nounced. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper,  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing  "Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy" — (Evan  Stephens). 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Cecil  Broadbent 
of  the  North  Carbon  Stake,  Helper,  Utah. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "Let  the  Mountains 
Shout  for  Joy" — (Evan  Stephens). 

Elder  Cecil  Broadbent,  President  of  the  North  Carbon  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Choir:  "Beautiful  Savior" — (Arr.  Christiansen). 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  McKay  will  now  present  the  General  Authorities  and 
general  officers  and  general  auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church  for  your 
sustaining  vote. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency presented  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  and  they  were  unanimously 
sustained  by  those  present,  as  follows: 

First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards  Harold  B.  Lee 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Trustee-in-Trust 
George  Albert  Smith 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 

Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L,  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 
Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder  £ 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

David  O.  McKay  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisor 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisors 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Alma  Sonne 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Harold  B.  Lee  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Marion  G.  Romney  LeGrand  Richards 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Clifford  E.  Young  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

-  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
William  E.  Ryberg  .  ..  Mark  B.  Garff 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Leonard  E.  Adams 

Paul  C.  Child  J.  Leonard  Love 

T.  C.  Stayner 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonson,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


H4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Da,J 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 

George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
John  D.   Giles,   First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lorenzo  H.   Hatch,   Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Verna   W.    Goddard,    First  Counselor 
Lucy  T.  Andersen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

President  McKay:  The  voting  in  all  cases,  so  far  as  I  could  see, 
has  been  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  just  voted  to  sustain  the  General  Authorities  and  gen- 
eral officers  of  the  Church  also  the  general  auxiliary  groups  by  rais- 
ing our  right  hands.  There  was  no  contrary  vote.  I  assume  that 
that  means  that  everybody  here  is  willing  not  only  to  sustain  them 
by  raising  their  hands  but  by  helping  them  in  every  way  to  make 
their  work  successful. 

Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will 
now  address  us.  Following  him  will  be  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  also 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

0[  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  edified  by  the  remarks  of  my  brethren  during  the 
several  sessions  of  this  conference.  We  have  received  instruction, 
admonition,  warning;  our  attention  has  been  called  to  our  shortcom- 
ings; and  I  hope  all  will  be  remembered. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  145 


It  is  my  desire,  in  the  few  minutes  that  I  have,  to  add  my  little 
part  by  testimony,  instruction,  and  counsel  as  the  Lord  may  lead  me 
to  speak.  I  have  had  a  number  of  topics  in  mind  since  the  beginning 
of  this  conference,  and  somebody  gets  up  and  delivers  these  talks. 
So  I  thought  perhaps  I  could  think  of  something  that  someone  else 
would  not  think  of,  and  I  want  to  talk  to  you  this  afternoon  for  a  little 
while  on  the  sin  of  ingratitude,  which  I  consider  to  be  the  most  prev- 
alent of  all  sins,  for  we  are  all  guilty  of  it;  I  am,  you  are,  the  peo- 
ple everywhere  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  are  guilty  of  this  sin  in 
some  degree. 

The  Two  Great  Commandments 

On  one  occasion,  we  read  in  the  scriptures,  a  young  lawyer  came 
to  the  Savior  with  a  question  tempting  him  and  saying: 

Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law?  Jesus  said  unto 
him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment?  And 
the  second  is  like  unto  it.  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  On 
these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets.  (Matt. 
22:36-40.) 

If  we  will  observe  this  first  law,  the  second  naturally  will  follow, 
and  in  fact,  as  the  Savior  has  pointed  it  out,  we  will  not  be  guilty  of 
a  breach  of  the  law  and  the  prophets  in  anything  else. 

Eternal  Life 

Jesus  Christ  came  into  this  world  with  a  definite  mission  as  the 
Savior  of  men  and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  When  Nicodemus 
came  to  the  Savior,  making  inquiry,  and  he  came  by  night  because 
he  was  afraid  of  the  Jews,  but  believing  in  Jesus  Christ,  he  asked  him 
some  questions  and  the  Savior  gave  him  some  definite  instruction  in 
regard  to  baptism  by  water  and  by  the  spirit,  and  in  the  course  of  the 
remarks,  that  which  followed,  the  Savior  said  this: 

And  Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent  in  the  wilderness,  even  so  must  the 
Son  of  man  be  lifted  up:  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish, 
but  have  eternal  life.  For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his 
only  begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish, 
but  have  everlasting  life.  For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to 
condemn  the  world;  but  that  the  world  through  him  might  be  saved.  He 
that  believeth  on  him  is  not  condemned:  but  he  that  believeth  not  is  con- 
demned already,  because  he  hath  not  believed  in  the  name  of  the  only  be- 
gotten Son  of  God.  And  this  is  the  condemnation,  that  light  is  come 
into  the  world,  and  men  loved  darkness  rather  than  light,  because  their 
deeds  were  evil.  For  every  one  that  doeth  evil  hateth  the  light,  neither 
cometh  to  the  light,  lest  his  deeds  should  be  reproved.  But  he  that  doeth 
truth  cometh  to  the  light,  that  his  deeds  may  be  made  manifest,  that  they 
are  wrought  in  God.  (John  3:14-21.) 

Then  the  Savior  adds: 

He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  hath  everlasting  life:  and  he  that 
believeth  not  the  Son  shall  not  see  life;  but  the  wrath  of  God  abideth  on 
him.  (John  3:36.) 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third 

Atonement  of  Christ 

Now,  may  I  spend  a  few  minutes  presenting  before  us  what  we 
all  know  to  be  the  truth,  that  Jesus  Christ  came  into  this  world  to 
die.  That  was  his  mission,  and  by  that  death  upon  the  cross  and 
through  the  shedding  of  his  blood,  to  bring  redemption,  twofold, 
first,  to  redeem  men  from  Adam's  transgression,  to  restore  them  again 
to  life,  to  destroy  death,  gain  the  victory,  which  apparently  Satan  had 
won  through  the  transgression  of  Adam.  In  some  manner  which 
I  cannot  fully  explain  and  which  you  cannot  fully  explain,  there  was 
a  necessity  for  an  infinite  atonement,  a  God  dying  for  a  fallen  world, 
and  that  had  to  be  by  the  shedding  of  blood,  and  his  blood  only  could 
be  shed  to  restore  again  that  life  which  had  been  taken  away,  and 
bring  back  again  to  man  the  power  to  live  forever.  And  through  his 
death  there  comes  to  us  universally,  to  every  living  creature,  a  resur- 
rection  of  the  dead.  The  Lord  does  not  ask  us  whether  we  want  to 
be  redeemed  from  death  or  not.  We  were  not  responsible  for  it,  and, 
therefore,  it  is  not  held  against  us;  it  is  not  to  our  charge.  As  Paul 
has  said: 

The  Free  Gift  of  God 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 
(I  Cor.  15:22.) 

That  is  the  free  gift  of  God  the  Eternal  Father,  through  Jesus 
Christ,  his  Son,  to  every  living  soul,  men,  women,  children,  from  the 
fall  of  Adam  to  the  end  of  time. 

Now  that  is  a  wonderful  gift.  It  comes  without  our  asking.  It 
comes  to  the  wicked  as  well  as  to  the  righteous.  In  the  fifth  chapter 
of  John  the  Lord  speaks  to  the  people  of  the  time  coming,  and  he  says 
it  was  already  here,  when  the  dead  should  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son 
of  God  and  they  who  heard  should  live.  Yes,  not  only  those  who 
heard  it,  that  is,  received  his  truth,  for  he  added  this,  when  they  mar- 
veled at  what  he  had  to  say: 

Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is  coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice,  And  shall  come  forth;  they  that  have 
done  good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life;  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation.  (John  5:28,  29.) 

Here  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  himself  that  he  was  going  to  carry 
the  message  to  the  dead;  they  would  all  hear;  they  who  were  willing 
to  receive  that  message  of  truth  and  abide  in  it  should  have  ever- 
lasting  life,  but  they  who  would  not  receive  it  or  who  were  not  worthy 
to  receive  it  should  come  forth  just  the  same  in  the  resurrection  to  re- 
ceive condemnation,  but  the  resurrection  was  to  come  to  all  uni- 
versally. 

Then  again,  the  Savior  died  for  all  men  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  all  creatures,  that  is,  human  creatures,  who  were  willing  to 
repent  of  their  sins  and  keep  his  commandments.  He  has  not  re- 
deemed any  of  us  from  our  sins  except  it  be  through  repentance  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


faithful  adherence  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  our  endurance 
to  the  end. 

When  he  stood  before  his  disciples  upon  this  continent,  he  said 
to  them: 

.  .  .no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing 
entereth  into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have  washed  their  garments 
in  my  blood,  because  of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance  of  all  their  sins, 
and  their  faithfulness  unto  the  end.  (Ill  Nephi  27:19.) 

That  is  definite. 

So,  he  redeemed  mankind  from  death  universally,  and  he  has 
redeemed  men  from  their  own  sins  on  conditions  of  their  repentance, 
and  they  will  not  be  redeemed  from  their  sins  unless  they  do  repent 
and  accept  him  and  wash  their  garments  white  in  his  blood  and  en- 
dure in  faith  to  the  end.   It  is  upon  those  terms  that  salvation  comes. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings 

Now,  when  we  stop  to  think  that  the  Son  of  God  created  this 
world?  all  things,  the  scriptures  say,  were  made  by  him,  and  when 
we  think  that  he  came  to  this  world  with  that  mission  which  he  ac- 
cepted before  he  was  born  in  Bethlehem,  and  by  the  shedding  of  his 
blood  gave  us  life  that  we  might  rise  in  the  resurrection  to  live  for- 
ever; and  when  he,  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood  has  offered  unto  us 
the  remission  of  our  sins  and  eternal  life,  through  obedience  to  the 
gospel — do  you  not  think  that  we  owe  him  something  in  return?  We 
owe  him  everything. 

Paul  says:  "We  were  bought  with  a  price."  That  price  was 
the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  are  not  our  own.  Oh,  if  we  could 
only  understand  that  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood,  he  bought  us. 
We  belong  to  him.  He  has  a  right  to  tell  us  what  to  do  and  what 
not  to  do,  and  to  command  us  to  keep  his  commandments;  however, 
we  have  our  agency,  and  we  act  for  ourselves. 

We  cannot  comprehend  the  great  suffering  that  the  Lord  had 
to  take  upon  himself  to  bring  to  pass  this  redemption  from  death  and 
from  sin.  He  spent  a  few  years  upon  the  earth,  and  during  that 
short  sojourn  he  suffered  the  abuse  of  men.  They  stoned  him;  they 
spat  upon  him;  they  cursed  him;  they  ridiculed  him;  they  accused 
him  of  almost  every  crime  they  could  think  of,  and  finally  they  took 
him  and  crucified  him  upon  a' cross. 

Suffering  of  the  Savior 

We  get  into  the  habit  of  thinking,  I  suppose,  that  his  great 
suffering  was  when  he  was  nailed  to  the  cross  by  his  hands  and  his 
feet  and  was  left  there  to  suffer  until  he  died.  As  excruciating  as  that 
pain  was,  that  was  not  the  greatest  suffering  that  he  had  to  undergo, 
for  in  some  way  which  I  cannot  understand,  but  which  I  accept  on 
faith,  and  which  you  must  accept  on  faith,  he  carried  on  his  back  the 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Da» 

burden  of  the  sins  of  the  whole  world.  It  is  hard  enough  for  me  to 
carry  my  own  sins.  How  is  it  with  you?  And  yet  he  had  to  carry  the 
sins  of  the  whole  world,  as  our  Savior  and  the  Redeemer  of  a  fallen 
world,  and  so  great  was  his  suffering  before  he  ever  went  to  the 
cross,  we  are  informed,  that  blood  oozed  from  the  pores  of  his  body, 
and  he  prayed  to  his  Father  that  the  cup  might  pass  if  it  were  pos- 
sible, but  not  being  possible  he  was  willing  to  drink. 
And  here  is  what  he  has  said  to  the  Church: 

For  behold,  I,  God,  have  suffered  these  things  for  all,  that  they 
might  not  suffer  if  they  would  repent;  But  if  they  would  not  repent  they 
must  suffer  even  as  I;  Which  suffering  caused  myself,  even  God,  the 
greatest  of  all,  to  tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore, 
and  to  suffer  both  body  and  spirit — and  would  that  I  might  not  drink 
the  bitter  cup,  and  shrink — Nevertheless,  glory  be  to  the  Father,  and  I 
partook  and  finished  my  preparations  unto  the  children  of  men.  (D.  £>.  C. 
19:16-19.) 

Now,  when  he  said  that  if  we  do  not  repent  we  will  have  to 
suffer  even  as  he  did,  he  had  no  .reference  to  being  nailed  to  a  cross, 
but  it  was  the  torment  of  mind,  of  spirit,  that  he  had  reference  to, 
before  he  ever  got  to  the  cross,  and  if  men  will  not  repent,  they  will 
have  to  suffer  even  as  he  suffered. 

Now  brethren,  briefly,  he  did  all  this  for  us,  the  Son  of  God,  and 
he  did  it,  as  I  have  read  to  you,  because  his  Father  commanded  him 
and  because  his  Father  so  loved  the  world  that  he  wanted  to  save 
the  world  from  its  sins. 


Transgressor  Shows  Ingratitude 

Now,  he  has  asked  us  to  keep  his  commandments.  He  says 
they  are  not  grievous,  and  there  are  so  many  of  us  who  are  not  will- 
ing to  do  it.  I  am  speaking  now  generally  of  the  people  of  the  earth. 
We  are  not  willing  to  do  it.  That  certainly  is  ingratitude.  We  are 
ungrateful.  Every  member  of  this  Church  that  violates  the  Sabbath 
day,  that  is  not  honest  in  the  paying  of  his  tithing,  that  will  not  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  wilfully  violates  any  of  the  other  com- 
mandments the  Lord  has  given  us,  is  ungrateful  to  the  Son  of  God  and 
when  ungrateful  to  the  Son  of  God  is  ungrateful  to  the  Father  who 
sent  him.  If  our  Savior  would  do  so  much  for  us,  how  in  the  world  is 
it  that  we  are  not  willing  to  abide  by  his  commandments  which  are 
not  grievous,  which  do  not  cause  us  anv  suffering  if  we  will  only 
keep  them?  And  yet,  people  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  they  re- 
fuse to  attend  to  their  duties  as  officers  and  members  in  the  Church; 
many  of  them  stay  away  from  meetings  the  Lord  has  called  upon  them 
to  support.  They  follow  their  own  desires  if  they  are  in  conflict 
with  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

If  we  understood  our  position  and  we  loved  the  Lord  our  God 
with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  soul,  and  with  all  our  mind,  or,  as  he 
has  put  it  in  the  revelation  given  to  us  in  these  days: 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


149 


Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  saying  thus:  Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind, 
and  strength;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve  him.  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  (D.  &  C.  59:5,  6.) 

then  we  would  keep  his  commandments;  when  we  will  not  do  this,  I 
tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  show  ingratitude  to  Jesus  Christ. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  this  has  been  a  glorious  conference. 
I  am  tempted  to  say  it  is  the  best  we  have  ever  had,  unless  it  be  that 
the  last  is  always  the  best. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  made  by  the  brethren.  I  think  every 
gospel  principle  of  consequence,  and  they  are  all  of  consequence,  has 
been  discussed  before  us  the  last  three  days.  I  feel  built  up  in  my 
faith  as  a  result  of  this  conference,  and  feel  indeed  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  has  been  with  us  to  help  us  and  inspire  us  during  these  meetings. 

My  own  contribution  this  afternoon  must  of  necessity  be  a  hum- 
ble one  since,  like  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  I  have  had  the  ex- 
perience of  hearing  my  eloquent  colleagues  taking,  one  after  the  other, 
some  of  my  sermons  and  delivering  them  splendidly  to  the  congrega- 
tion. 

Appreciation  for  Centennial  Program 

Before  saying,  however,  what  is  on  my  mind,  I  would  like  to  call 
attention  to  a  remark  made  by  President  David  O.  McKay  in  this 
morning's  service.  He  took  occasion  to  thank  the  people  of  the 
Church  and  the  people  of  the  state  for  the  assistance  they  have  given 
him  and  the  governor  and  members  of  his  commission  in  carrying 
out  the  centennial  celebration.  We  are  all  grateful  for  that  courteous 
remark,  but  I  felt  that  we  should  reverse  the  matter;  that  we,  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  as  citizens  of  Utah,  should  extend  to  these  men 
with  President  McKay  at  their  head,  our  thanks  for  the  splendid  pro- 
gram that  was  arranged  and  supervised  by  them.  Throughout  this 
state,  and  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion  far  beyond  the  boundaries 
of  Utah,  this  program  has  been  carried  out  to  the  great  joy  and  re- 
freshment of  the  people  who  belong  to  the  Church,  and  of  many 
others,  not  of  our  faith. 

I  would  like  to  say  the  same  thing  about  President  George  Albert 
Smith  and  his  commission.  They  also  had  a  difficult  task,  to  get  in 
readiness,  after  long  planning,  the  great  pioneer  monument  which  now 
adorns  the  hill  to  the  east,  and  to  have  it  ready  on  time.  On  the  24th 
of  July  last,  they  were  ready,  and  the  dedicatory  exercises  were  held 
and  the  responsibility  accomplished. 

To  these  two  men  and  their  commissions — I  think  I  can  speak 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  pctoter  5  Third  Da» 

freely  and  correctly  in  your  behalf — when  I  extend  to  them  your 
thanks  and  appreciation  for  work  well  done. 

The  monument  on  the  hill  is  in  honor  of  the  Mormon  Pioneers — 
that  is  its  principal  objective — but  through  the  sculptor's  skill  it  em- 
bodies a  practically  complete,  pre-pioneer  history  of  this  region.  If 
one  will  walk  about  the  monument,  study  the  figures,  learn  to  under- 
stand their  meanings,  he  will  have  a  good  conception  of  all  that  hap- 
pened in  these  valleys  from  1776,  when  Father  Escalante  entered 
what  is  now  Utah,  up  to  the  coming  of  the  Pioneers  in  1847. 

The  Glory  of  the  Pioneers 

On  July  24,  1947,  just  before  the  great  parade  began,  I  stood 
near  the  group  of  surviving  pioneers  seated  in  front  of  the  Church 
Administration  Building.  I  looked  at  them,  talked  with  them,  looked 
into  their  faces  and  at  their  hands,  and  read  a  good  part  of  their  life's 
history  as  I  moved  among  them.  Their  faces  told  a  wonderful  story, 
not  only  of  toil,  but  of  great  aspirations,  of  great  faith;  their  hands 
likewise.  I  don't  know  whether  you  all  look  at  the  hands  of  people, 
but  hands  are  eloquent  testators  of  life's  journey,  from  the  chubby 
little  fist  of  the  baby  to  the  veined  hands  of  age. 

These  men  and  women  had  endured  much,  they  who  were  seated 
by  the  Administration  Building  on  that  occasion.  They  came  here 
as  children,  mere  children,  but  they  shared  in  the  pioneer  building. 
Many  of  us  here,  like  myself,  have  known  personally  scores  and 
scores  of  those  who  as  mature  men  and  women  came  here  in  early 
pioneer  days  and  made  this  state  and  this  region  what  it  is  today.  I 
I  was  touched  in  my  heart  as  I  became  acquainted  with  these  old,  may 
I  say,  men  and  women,  and  saw  in  them  the  glory  of  the  story  that 
we  have  been  celebrating  this  last  year. 

When  the  next  general  conference  of  the  Church  comes,  this 
year  of  memories  which  I  know  has  been  refreshing  to  all  of  us — it  has 
to  me — will  be  itself  a  memory,  but  a  great  and  a  glorious  memory! 
And  as  I  stood  by  these  pioneers,  the  last  survivors  of  those  who  came 
before  the  railroad,  I  observed  that  the  great  majority,  on  my  side  at 
least,  were  made  up  of  women,  women  rich  in  years,  not  old — because 
of  course  no  woman  ever  gets  old — and  I  could  read  in  their  faces 
the  story  of  their  lives,  how  they  had  toiled,  how  they  had  labored, 
how  they  had  built  Zion,  with  their  husbands  and  children. 

Woman's  Contribution 

Woman's  share  in  the  building  of  the  West  is  understood  by  all 
of  us,  but  sometimes  we  forget  to  give  her  the  praise  which  is  her 
due.  As  the  man  went  out  to  clear  the  sagebrush,  she  stayed  home 
and  finished  the  little  pioneer  building,  inside  at  least.  She  cooked 
the  simple  food  for  her  husband  and  her  family;  and  usually  some- 
where in  a  corner  outside  she  planted  flower  seeds  to  add  a  touch  of 
beauty  to  life. 

We  cannot  live  without  beauty.    That  has  been  said  over  and 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


151 


over  here  today,  and  yesterday,  and  the  day  before.  Life  is  more  than 
three  meals  a  day.  One  must  move  into  the  spiritual  realm  which  lies 
all  about  us  to  win  full  enjoyment  in  life. 

I  hope  that  we  all,  on  this  occasion,  and  in  days  to  come,  as  I  am 
sure  has  been  done  in  days  past,  give  proper  tribute  to  pioneer  women, 
our  mothers,  grandmothers,  great-grandmothers,  who  did  quite  as 
much  in  their  way  as  did  the  men.  It  was  their  opportunity  to  help 
build  this  great  western  empire,  and  they  accepted  the  challenge,  with- 
out fear. 

Faith  of  Pioneer  Women 

This  pioneer  woman  did  something  which  glorifies  her  memory. 
There  were  times  when  the  man  became  discouraged.  They  had  both 
come  perhaps  from  easier  climates.  Perhaps  she  came  with  soft  hands, 
rosy  English  cheeks.  She  had  to  meet  the  hardships  of  the  West. 
Sometimes  the  man,  unused  to  the  toil,  the  clearing  of  sagebrush,  the 
plowing  of  the  land,  and  all  these  new  things,  became  discouraged. 
Sometimes  despair  overtook  him.  Then  it  was  that  the  woman  came 
to  the  rescue.  When  he  looked  down,  she  looked  up.  When  he  half- 
doubted,  she  increased  in  faith. 

The  finest  picture  of  that  quality  in  woman's  nature,  within  my 
knowledge,  is  on  the  south  plaque  of  the  Sea  Gull  Monument.  If  you 
have  not  seen  it,  take  a  look  at  it.  The  crickets  had  come;  destruc- 
tion to  the  crops  seemed  inevitable;  the  man  has  given  up,  but  the 
woman  stands  with  head  raised  looking  towards  heaven.  She  may 
not  have  known  Browning's  lines  but  she  knew  that: 

God's  in  his  heaven — 
All's  right  with  the  world. 

I  think  this  Mahonri  Young's  finest  piece  of  work,  among  the 
many  fine  ones  executed  in  his  long  series  of  years — he  is  now  getting 
to  be  an  old  man  like  the  rest  of  us. 

Appreciation  for  Work  of  Women 

In  speaking  of  the  pioneer  woman,  I  come  necessarily  to  women 
of  every  time.  Not  only  the  pioneer  woman,  but  the  woman  of  today 
and  tomorrow,  of  the  east  and  of  the  west,  and  of  the  north  and  of  the 
south,  wherever  we  go.  We  men  have  good  reason  to  thank  God  for 
the  women  of  our  households.  They  are  strong  in  faith,  full  of  cour- 
age, able  to  do  the  work  that  the  day  brings. 

I  have  brought  with  me  quotations  from  two  of  the  great  Presi- 
dents of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Here  is 
one  from  Heber  J.  Grant,  whom  we  all  knew  and  loved.   He  said: 

Without  the  wonderful  work  of  the  women  I  realize  that  the  Church 
would  have  been  a  failure. 

A  strong  statement.  I  am  not  saying  that,  I  am  quoting  from 
President  Grant. 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

The  mother  in  the  family,  far  more  than  the  father,  is  the  one  who 
instils  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  a  testimony  and  love  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Our  fathers  and  mothers  came  here  in  the  early  days  for 
the  one  and  only  thing — to  serve  the  Lord,  and  to  labor  for  the  salvation 
of  humanity,  and  wherever  you  find  a  woman  who  is  devoted  to  this  work, 
almost  without  exception  you  will  find  that  her  children  are  devoted  to  it. 

Another  President  of  the  Church  whom  we  loved  greatly  who 
really  belongs  to  our  day — most  of  us  here  knew  him,  a  prince,  a  king 
among  men — Joseph  F.  Smith,  said  on  one  occasion: 

There  are  people  who  are  fond  of  saying  that  women  are  the  weaker 
sex.  I  don't  believe  it.  Physically  they  may  be,  but  spiritually,  morally, 
religiously,  and  in  faith  what  man  can  match  a  woman  who  is  really  con- 
vinced! They  are  always  more  willing  to  make  sacrifices,  and  are  the 
peer  of  men  in  stability,  godLness,  morality,  and  faith. 

In  the  1870's  the  distinguished  grandfather  of  the  distinguished 
grandson  who  is  here  today,  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane — we  call  him 
affectionately,  Colonel  Kane,  for  by  that  title  we  knew  him  best — 
came  to  Utah  on  his  last  trip.  He  and  President  Young  traveled  from 
Salt  Lake  to  St.  George  together.  Colonel  Kane  had  his  wife  and  two 
children  with  him,  one  of  them  possibly  Mr.  Kent  Kane's  father. 
I  am  not  sure  about  that.  We  have  here  in  the  congregation,  one  of 
the  two  surviving  daughters  of  Brigham  Young,  Mrs.  Mabel  Y.  San- 
born who  was  on  that  trip,  and  played  with  those  children,  sang  songs 
with  them.  Mrs.  Kane  took  occasion  to  write  to  her  family  a  series 
of  letters,  which  the  family  published  privately  in  a  little  book.  I 
read  it  the  other  day  in  Washington,  D.  C,  in  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress. I  did  not  know  then  that  we  had  a  copy  in  the  historian's  li- 
brary. I  found  the  great  and  fervent  testimony  that  that  woman  bore 
to  the  pioneer  mothers  of  Utah,  of  the  Mormon  Church. 

But,  if  all  this  be  true,  a  great  responsibility  rests  upon  woman- 
kind, one  that  we  cannot  discuss  here  because  time  does  not  permit, 
a  tremendous  responsibility.  If  she  has  strength  and  has  faith  and 
has  opportunity  in  this  Church,  what  can  she  not  do  to  build  this 
kingdom  as  the  Lord  would  have  it  be! 

Sometimes  we  hear  it  said  that  this  is  a  man's  Church,  not  a 
woman's  Church.  That  is  a  great  mistake.  It  is  not  a  man's  Church; 
it  is  not  a  woman's  Church;  it  is  a  Church  of  families,  made  up  of 
fathers,  mothers,  and  children.  The  blessings  that  descend  upon  the 
family  are  shared  by  all  the  members  of  the  family,  each  one  accord- 
ing to  his  or  her  calling,  organized  calling  within  the  family. 

The  Evil  of  Divorce 

One  more  question  remains  in  my  mind,  if  President  Smith  will 
allow  me  to  take  two  or  three  minutes  more.  In  those  early  days  we 
had  practically  no  divorces,  no  marital  upsets,  no  family  troubles  such 
as  we  have  today.  Today  the  divorce  evil  in  America  is  becoming  a 
national  scandal,  nothing  short  of  it.  The  question  is  often  asked, 
How  did  it  happen  that  we  had  family  integrity,  peace,  and  harmony 
in  those  early  days?   The  Church  has  never  said  that  divorce  should 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


153 


be  forbidden,  not  be  given  nor  taken.  There  may  be  conditions, 
under  our  frail  mortal  conditions,  that  justify  divorce;  but  the  Church 
has  always  looked  askance  upon  it  and  always  with  sorrow. 

The  day  journal  of  Brigham  Young  records  that  one  day  a  sister 
came  to  him  and  said:  "My  husband  is  not  good  to  me.  I  want  a  di- 
vorce." The  journal  goes  on  further  to  say  that  President  Young  talk- 
ed with  her  about  an  hour,  from  ten  to  eleven  in  the  morning.  The 
journal  gives  the  exact  time.  Then,  when  they  had  finished,  he  turned 
to  the  woman,  and  he  said:  "Sister,  I  have  heard  your  story.  I  am  not 
going  to  give  you  a  divorce."  As  you  know,  Brigham  Young  was  a 
friend  to  the  cause  of  women.  He  felt  that  they  had  the  first  right 
of  choice.  "I  will  not  give  you  a  divorce,"  he  said.  "Go  home  and 
be  good  to  you  husband,  and  don't  expect  heaven  on  earth." 

There  is  a  tremendous  lesson  in  that  last  phrase:  "Don't  expect 
heaven  on  earth." 

A  man  marries  a  girl  and  expects  her  to  be  a  perfect  woman;  she 
expects  him  to  be  a  perfect  man;  both  are  imperfect.  Their  business 
in  life  is  to  help  each  other  to  move  more  nearly  towards  a  state  of 
perfection. 

Need  for  Common  Interest  in  Kingdom  of  God 

But  I  think  the  real  reason  why  we  had  so  little  marital  unhappi- 
ness  in  those  earlier  days  was  something  that  we  have  forgotten  in 
our  day.  Man  and  woman  husband  and  wife,  had  a  common  interest, 
a  high,  worthy  interest  which  they  shared  in  common.  There  is  dan- 
ger in  the  household  when  a  husband  has  one  interest  and  the  wife 
another.  They  are  laying  the  foundation  for  all  manner  of  discord, 
ultimate  dissatisfaction  with  their  problems,  family  problems.  To  be 
happy  in  life  in  a  married  condition,  husband  and  wife  must  have  a 
high,  worthy,  common  interest,  a  common  objective.  That  objective 
they  had  in  those  early  days — we  should  have  it  now;  I  hope  we  do 
have  it.  They  did  not  come  out  here  in  these  valleys  alone  for  food 
and  clothing  and  shelter,  to  get  a  living.  That  was  not  the  purpose  of 
the  trek  across  the  plains,  but  they  came  to  find  a  place  of  safety  and 
to  help  build  the  kingdom  of  God  as  God  would  have  it  done.  All  that 
they  did  their  plowing,  their  washing  of  dishes,  their  mending  of 
clothes,  their  raising  of  homes,  fences,  and  barns,  was  done  primarily 
that  they  might  better  be  able  to  further  the  interest  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  earth. 

If  every  family  in  Zion  will  set  out  with  that  objective  in  all  their 
doings,  in  all  their  undertakings,  if  everything  is  considered  with  refer- 
ence to  the  building  and  growth  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  there  will  not 
be  much  for  the  divorce  attorney  to  do.  We  will  then  live  in  happiness 
together  as  families,  and  raise  our  children  to  be  noble  and  useful 
citizens  of  the  state  and  of  the  Church. 

That  lesson  comes  down  to  us  from  those  early  days,  and  con- 
nected with  the  place  of  woman  in  the  society  which  we  call  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

r.      f        r\  .  l      c  Third  Dau 

Sunday.  October  5 

I  know  and  have  known  of  the  strength  of  women.  I  grew  up  a 
widow's  son,  from  my  earliest  childhood.  My  father  is  but  a  dim 
shadow  in  my  memory.  She  taught  me,  and  she  trained  me,  quite  as 
well,  I  think,  as  a  father  could  have  done.  The  Lord  helped  her. 
The  Lord  does  not  limit  his  blessings  according  to  sex,  but  according 
to  our  faith  and  devotion  to  him. 

This  has  been  a  great  conference.  God  bless  us  and  be  with  us 
and  make  us  mighty  examples  for  good  to  the  world,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  has  just 
spoken  to  us,  he  called  our  attention  to  the  place  in  the  Church  of 
women.  I  think  some  of  you  may  know  that  two  living  wives  of  for- 
mer presidents  of  the  Church,  the  wife  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Aunt  Mary,  and  the  wife  of  Heber  J.  Grant,  Aunt  Augusta,  have  been 
in  attendance  at  this  conference,  even  at  their  advanced  years.  We 
are  happy  to  have  them  here,  and  we  hope  they  have  enjoyed  the 
meetings  as  well  as  we  have  enjoyed  having  them  with  us. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now  sing: 

"Come,  Come  Ye  Saints" — (Clayton) 

Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congregation:  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters;  I  should  like  in  the  beginning  to  add  my 
testimony  to  the  many  that  we  have  heard  during  this  conference — 
my  testimony  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet;  that  through  him  the  gospel  was  restored  and  likewise  the 
priesthood,  the  authority  delegated  to  man  on  earth  to  represent 
Deity  here  among  us;  and  that  the  Prophet  has  been  followed  down 
to  and  including  our  present  President,  George  Albert  Smith,  by  men 
who  possessed  the  keys  of  the  last  dispensation  as  conferred  upon 
Joseph  Smith. 

The  matter  that  I  shall  give  you  today  is  very  dear  to  my  soul. 
Since  I  should  like  to  say  what  I  have  to  say  in  the  best  way  I  can 
say  it,  I  have  written  it  down  and  shall  read  it.  I  hope  that  what  I 
shall  say  will  be  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  this  great  conference,  I 
think  the  greatest  I  have  attended  in  its  high  spiritual  tone. 

Tribute  to  Pioneers 
At  the  near  close  of  this  one  hundredth  year  of  the  entering  into 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  155 


these  valleys  of  your  fathers  and  your  mothers,  some  of  yours  and 
mine,  I  wish  to  speak  a  few  further  words  of  humble  tribute  and 
thanksgiving  to  them,  and  especially  to  the  meekest  and  lowliest  of 
them,  those  great  souls,  majestic  in  the  simplicity  of  their  faith  and 
in  their  living  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel,  to  those 
souls  in  name  unknown,  unremembered,  unhonored  in  the  pages  of 
history,  but  lovingly  revered  round  the  hearthstones  of  their  children 
and  their  children's  children  who  pass  down  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration the  story  of  their  faith  and  their  mighty  works,  and  the 
righteousness  of  their  lives  and  living,  those  souls  who  worked  and 
worked,  and  prayed  and  followed,  and  wrought  so  gloriously. 

I  would  not  take  away  one  word  of  praise  or  gratitude,  honor  or 
reverence  from  the  great  men  who  led  these  humble  ones  of  ours. 
They  were  mighty  men  in  brain  and  brawn,  in  courage  and  valor,  in 
honesty  and  in  love  of  truth,  living  near  the  Lord — Brothers  Brigham 
and  Heber  and  Wilford  and  Willard  and  Charles,  the  two  Orsons 
and  Parley,  and  John  and  George  and  Erastus  and  Lorenzo  and 
Daniel  and  Joseph  and  Jedediah,  and  a  host  of  other  giants,  each  and 
all  richly  blessed  with  the  Lord's  divine  love  and  with  that  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  that  made  them  leaders  truly  like  unto  Moses  of 
old.  I  yield,  we  yield,  to  no  one  in  our  gratitude  for  them  and  for 
their  work  of  directing  the  conquest  of  the  wilderness  and  of  saving 
men's  souls.  Their  names  shine  lustrously  on  those  pages  of  history 
which  record  only  the  doings  of  the  makers  of  epochs — those  choice 
spirits,  chosen  before  the  foundation  of  the  world,  to  be  the  leaders 
and  builders  of  dispensations  of  God's  dealings  with  men;  and  these 
leaders  of  ours  to  be  the  builders  of  that  dispensation  which  of  old 
was  named  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Time.  Unnumbered 
eternities  will  remember  and  honor  them. 

But  I  should  like  now  and  here  to  say  a  few  words  about  those 
who  trod  after  where  those  giants  led,  some  in  the  same  companies 
that  the  Brethren  piloted,  some  in  later  companies  following  that 
year  and  the  years  after,  some  in  the  fateful  handcarts  with  their  un- 
excelled devotion,  heroism,  and  faith,  all  trickling  forward  in  a  never- 
failing,  tiny  stream,  till  they  filled  the  valley  they  entered  and  then 
flowed  out  at  the  sides  and  ends,  peopling  this  whole  wilderness- 
waste  which  they  fructified,  making  it  to  fulfil  the  ancient  prophecy 
that  the  desert  should  blossom  as  the  rose. 

They  of  the  Last  Wagon 

I  would  like  to  say  something  about  the  last  wagon  in  each  of 
the  long  wagon  trains  that  toiled  slowly  over  the  plains,  up  moun- 
tain denies,  down  steep,  narrow  canyons,  and  out  into  the  valley  floor 
that  was  to  be  home — this  last  wagon:  last,  because  the  ox  team  that 
pulled  it  was  the  smallest  and  leanest  and  weakest,  and  had  the  ten- 
derest  feet  of  any  in  the  train;  it  was  slow  starting,  and  slow  moving; 
last,  because  worn  and  creaking,  it  took  more  time  to  fix  and  to 
grease,  for  young  Jimmy  generally  had  trouble  in  getting  the  wagon 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Daf 

jack  under  the  "ex";  last,  because  its  wind-rent  cover  was  old  and 
patched  and  took  hours  to  mend  and  tie  up  to  keep  out  the  storm; 
last,  because  the  wife,  heavy  with  child,  must  rest  till  the  very  mom- 
ent of  starting;  last,  because  sickly  little  Bill,  the  last  born,  poorly 
nourished,  must  be  washed  and  coaxed  to  eat  the  rough  food,  all  they 
had;  last,  because  with  all  his  tasks — helping  little  Bill,  cooking  and 
cleaning  up  the  breakfast, — Mother  was  not  able  to  help  much — 
Father  took  a  little  longer  to  yoke  his  cattle  and  to  gird  himself  for 
the  day's  labor;  last,  because  his  morning  prayers  took  a  few  more 
minutes  than  the  others  spent — he  had  so  many  blessings  to  thank 
the  Lord  for  and  some  special  blessings  to  ask  the  Lord  to  grant, 
blessings  of  health  and  strength,  especially  for  his  wife,  and  for  little 
Bill,  and  for  the  rest,  and  then  the  blessings  for  himself  that  his  own 
courage  would  not  fail,  but  most  of  all  for  the  blessing  of  faith,  faith 
in  God  and  in  the  Brethren  who  sometimes  seemed  so  far  away.  For 
they  were  out  in  front  where  the  air  was  clear  and  clean  and  where 
they  had  unbroken  vision  of  the  blue  vault  of  heaven.  The  Brethren 
had  really  visioned  the  glory  of  the  Lord,  who  walked  near  them,  put 
his  thoughts  into  their  minds;  his  spirit  guided  and  directed  them, 
petitioned  thereto  by  the  thousands  of  Saints  who  were  back  in  Win- 
ter Quarters,  back  in  Iowa,  back  in  the  States,  and  beyond,  even 
across  the  waters,  for  the  faithful  poured  out  their  souls  in  fervent 
prayer  to  Almighty  God  that  the  Brethren  should  be  inspired.  The 
Saints  bouyed  up  the  Brethren  out  in  front  with  encouragement,  with 
praise,  and  sometimes  even  with  adulation.  Knowing  the  Brethren 
were  prophets  of  God,  the  Saints  gave  them  full  confidence,  daily, 
almost  hourly,  expressed.  The  Brethren  lived  in  a  world  of  com- 
mendation from  friends  and  the  tried  and  true  Saints.  Rarely  was 
their  word  or  their  act  questioned  by  the  faithful  Saints.  This  was 
as  it  should  be  and  had  to  be  to  carry  out  the  Lord's  purposes. 

But  back  in  the  last  wagon,  not  always  could  they  see  the  Breth- 
ren way  out  in  front,  and  the  blue  heaven  was  often  shut  out  from 
their  sight  by  heavy,  dense  clouds  of  the  dust  of  the  earth.  Yet  day 
after  day,  they  of  the  last  wagon  pressed  forward,  worn  and  tired, 
footsore,  sometimes  almost  disheartened,  borne  up  by  their  faith  that 
God  loved  them,  that  the  restored  gospel  was  true  and  that  the  Lord 
led  and  directed  the  Brethren  out  in  front.  Sometimes,  they  in  the 
last  wagon  glimpsed,  for  an  instant,  when  faith  surged  strongest,  the 
glories  of  a  celestial  world,  but  it  seemed  so  far  away,  and  the  vision 
so  quickly  vanished,  because  want  and  weariness  and  heartache  and 
sometimes  discouragement  were  always  pressing  so  near.  When  the 
vision  faded,  their  hearts  sank.  But  they  prayed  again  and  pushed 
on,  with  little  praise,  with  not  too  much  encouragement,  and  never 
with  adulation.  For  there  was  nearly  always  something  wrong  with 
the  last  wagon  or  with  its  team — the  off  ox  was  a  little  lame  in  the 
right  front  shoulder;  the  hub  of  the  left  front  wheel  was  often  hot; 
the  tire  of  the  hind  wheel  on  the  same  side  was  loose.  So  corrective 
counsel,  sometimes  strong  reproof,  was  the  rule,  because  the  wagon 
must  not  delay  the  whole  train.    But  yet  in  that  last  wagon  there  was 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  157 


devotion  and  loyalty  and  integrity,  and  above  and  beyond  every- 
thing else,  faith  in  the  Brethren  and  in  God's  power  and  goodness. 
For  had  not  the  Lord  said  that  "not  even  a  sparrow  falleth  unnoticed 
by  the  Father,  and  were  they  not  of  more  value  than  sparrows?"  And 
then  they  had  their  testimony  burning  always  like  an  eternal  fire  on  a 
holy  altar,  that  the  restored  gospel  was  true,  and  that  Joseph  was  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  that  Brigham  was  Joseph's  chosen  successor. 

When  the  train  moved  forward  in  the  early  morning  sun  and  the 
oxen  with  a  swinging  pull  that  almost  broke  the  tongue  got  that  last 
wagon  on  the  move,  the  dust  in  the  still  morning  air  hung  heavy  over 
the  road.  Each  wagon  from  the  first  stirred  up  its  own  cloud,  till 
when  the  last  wagon  swung  into  line,  that  dust  was  dense  and  suf- 
focating. It  covered  the  last  wagon  and  all  that  was  in  it;  it  clung  to 
clothes;  it  blackened  faces;  it  filled  eyes  already  sore,  and  ears.  The 
wife,  soon  to  be  a  mother,  could  hardly  catch  her  breath  in  the  heavy, 
choking  dust,  for  even  in  the  pure  air  she  breathed  hard  from  her 
burden.  Each  jolt  of  the  wagon,  for  those  ahead  had  made  wagon 
ruts  almost  "ex"  deep,  wrung  from  her  clenched  lips  a  half-groan  she 
did  her  best  to  keep  from  the  ears  of  the  anxious,  solicitous  husband 
plodding  slowly  along,  guiding  and  goading  the  poor  dumb  cattle, 
themselves  weary  from  the  long  trek.  So  through  the  long  day  of 
jolting  and  discomfort  and  sometimes  pain,  sometimes  panting  for 
breath,  the  mother,  anxious  only  that  the  unborn  babe  should  not  be 
injured,  rode,  for  she  could  not  walk;  and  the  children  walked,  for 
the  load  was  too  heavy  and  big  for  them  to  ride;  and  the  father  walked 
sturdily  alongside  and  prayed. 

When  in  the  evening  the  last  wagon  creaked  slowly  into  its 
place  in  the  circle  corral,  and  the  Brethren  came  to  inquire  how  the 
day  had  gone  with  the  mother,  then  joy  leaped  in  their  hearts,  for  had 
not  the  Brethren  remembered  them?  New  hope  was  born,  weariness 
fled,  fresh  will  to  do  was  enkindled;  gratitude  to  God  was  poured  out 
for  their  knowledge  of  the  truth,  for  their  testimony  that  God  lived, 
that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet,  that  Brigham 
was  his  ordained  successor,  and  that  for  the  righteous  a  crown  of 
glory  awaited  that  should  be  theirs  during  the  eternities  of  the  life  to 
come.  Then  they  would  join  in  the  songs  and  dancing  in  the  camp, 
making  the  camp's  gaiety  their  own,  as  much  as  Mother's  condition 
would  permit. 

Then  the  morning  came  when  from  out  that  last  wagon  floated 
the  la-la  of  the  newborn  babe,  and  mother  love  made  a  shrine,  and 
Father  bowed  in  reverence  before  it.  But  the  train  must  move  on.  So 
out  into  the  dust  and  dirt  the  last  wagon  moved  again,  swaying  and 
jolting,  while  Mother  eased  as  best  she  could  each  pain-giving  jolt 
so  no  harm  might  be  done  her,  that  she  might  be  strong  to  feed  the 
little  one,  bone  of  her  bone,  flesh  of  her  flesh.  Who  will  dare  to  say 
that  angels  did  not  cluster  round  and  guard  her  and  ease  her  rude 
bed,  for  she  had  given  another  choice  spirit  its  mortal  body  that  it 
might  work  out  its  God-given  destiny? 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Daf 

My  mother  was  one  of  those  babes  so  born  in  1848,  ninety-nine 
years  ago. 

Another  morning  came,  when  courageous  little  Bill,  who,  with  a 
hero's  heart,  had  trudged  through  long  days  of  hot  sun  and  through 
miles  of  soggy  mud  in  the  rain,  his  little  body  drenched,  little  Bill, 
weak  and  wan,  must  be  crowded  in  to  ride  with  Mother,  for  he  was 
sick  from  a  heavy  cold.  Months  before,  on  that  cold  winter's  night 
when  they  had  fled  Nauvoo  for  their  lives  to  escape  the  fiendish 
wrath  of  a  wild  mob,  Bill  became  dangerously  ill  with  pneumonia, 
which  left  him  with  weak  lungs.  This  old  illness  now  returned.  He 
grew  worse  and  worse.  The  elders  came  and  prayed  he  might  get 
well.  But  the  Lord  wanted  little  Bill  with  him.  So  a  few  mornings 
later  a  weeping  mother  and  a  grief-stricken  father  and  that  last  wagon 
swung  into  place  in  the  line,  leaving  beside  the  road,  under  some 
scrub  brush  a  little  mound,  unmarked  save  for  heaped-up  rocks  to 
keep  out  the  wolves,  a  mound  that  covered  another  martyr  to  the 
cause  of  truth. 

So  through  dust  and  dirt,  dirt  and  dust,  during  the  long  hours, 
the  longer  days — that  grew  into  weeks  and  then  into  months,  they 
crept  along  till,  passing  down  through  its  portals,  the  valley  welcomed 
them  to  rest  and  home.  The  cattle  dropped  to  their  sides,  wearied 
almost  to  death;  nor  moved  they  without  goading,  for  they  too  sensed 
they  had  come  to  the  journey's  end. 

That  evening  was  the  last  of  the  great  trek,  the  mightiest  trek 
that  history  records  since  Israel's  flight  from  Egypt,  and  as  the  sun 
sank  below  the  mountain  peaks  of  the  west  and  the  eastern  crags 
were  bathed  in  an  amethyst  glow  that  was  a  living  light,  while  the 
western  mountainsides  were  clothed  in  shadows  of  the  rich  blue  of  the 
deep  sea,  they  of  the  last  wagon,  and  of  the  wagon  before  them,  and 
of  the  one  before  that,  and  so  to  the  very  front  wagon  of  the  train, 
these  all  sank  to  their  knees  in  the  joy  of  their  souls,  thanking  God 
that  at  last  they  were  in  Zion.  "Zion,  Zion,  lovely  Zion,  beautiful  Zion, 
Zion,  City  of  our  God."  They  knew  there  was  a  God,  for  only  he 
could  have  brought  them  triumphant,  militant,  through  all  the  scorn, 
the  ridicule,  the  slander,  the  tarrings  and  featherings,  the  whippings, 
the  burnings,  the  plunderings,  the  murderings,  the  ravishings  of  wives 
and  daughters,  that  had  been  their  lot,  the  lot  of  their  people  since 
Joseph  visioned  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

But  hundreds  of  these  stalwart  souls  of  undoubting  faith  and 
great  prowess,  were  not  yet  at  their  journey's  end. 

Brother  Brigham  again  called  them  to  the  colors  of  the  kingdom 
of  God,  and  sent  them  to  settle  the  valleys,  near  and  remote,  in  these 
vast  mountains  of  refuge.  So  again  they  yoked  their  oxen  and  hitched 
up  their  teams,  and  putting  their  all  in  the  covered  wagon,  this  time 
willingly,  unwhipped  by  the  threat  of  mob  cruelty  and  outrage,  they 
wended  their  slow  way  to  new  valleys,  again  trusting  with  implicit 
faith  in  the  wisdom  and  divine  guidance  of  their  Moses.  The  very 
elements  obeyed  their  faith,  faith  close  kin  to  that  which  made  the 
world. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


159 


These  tens  of  thousands  who  so  moved  and  so  built  were  the 
warp  and  the  woof  of  Brother  Brigham's  great  commonwealth.  With- 
out them  Brother  Brigham  had  failed  his  mission.  These  were  the 
instruments — the  shovelers,  the  plowers,  and  sowers  and  reapers,  the 
machinists,  the  architects,  the  masons,  the  woodworkers,  the  organ 
builders,  the  artisans,  the  mathematicians,  the  men  of  letters,  all 
gathered  from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  furnished  by  the  Lord 
to  Brother  Brigham  and  the  prophet  leaders  who  came  after,  that  he 
and  they  might  direct  the  working  out  of  His  purposes.  These 
wrought  as  God  inspired  Brother  Brigham  and  the  other  prophets  to 
plan,  all  to  the  glory  of  God  and  the  up-building  of  his  kingdom. 

Upright  men  they  were,  and  fearless,  unmindful  of  what  men 
thought  or  said  of  them,  if  they  were  in  their  line  of  duty.  Calumny, 
slander,  derision,  scorn  left  them  unmoved,  if  they  were  treading  the 
straight  and  narrow  way.  Uncaring  they  were  of  men's  blame  and 
censure,  if  the  Lord  approved  them.  Unswayed  they  were  by  the 
praise  of  men,  to  wander  from  the  path  of  truth.  Endowed  by  the 
spirit  of  discernment,  they  knew  when  kind  words  were  mere  cour- 
tesy, and  when  they  betokened  honest  interest.  They  moved  neither 
to  the  right  nor  to  the  left  from  the  path  of  truth  to  court  the  good 
favor  of  men. 

Contributions  of  Humble  Souls 

So  for  a  full  hundred  years,  urged  by  the  spirit  of  gathering  and 
led  by  a  burning  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel,  thou- 
sands upon  tens  of  thousands  of  these  humble  souls,  one  from  a  city, 
two  from  a  family,  have  bidden  farewell  to  friends  and  homes  and 
loved  ones,  and  with  sundered  heartstrings,  companioned  with  priva- 
tion and  with  sacrifice  even  to  life  itself,  these  multitudes  have  made 
their  way  to  Zion,  to  join  those  who  were  privileged  to  come  earlier, 
that  all  might  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth — all  welded  to- 
gether by  common  hardship  and  suffering,  never-ending  work  and 
deep  privation,  tragic  woes  and  heart-eating  griefs,  abiding  faith  and 
exalting  joy,  firm  testimony  and  living  spiritual  knowledge — a  mighty 
people,  missioned  with  the  salvation,  not  only  of  the  living,  but  of 
the  dead  also,  saviors  not  worshipers  of  their  ancestors,  their  hearts 
aglow  with  the  divine  fire  of  the  spirit  of  Elijah,  who  turns  the  hearts 
of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  of  the  children  to  the  fathers. 

And  thousands  upon  thousands  of  these  tens  of  thousands,  from 
the  first  till  now,  all  the  elect  of  God,  measured  to  their  humble  calling 
and  to  their  destiny  as  fully  as  Brother  Brigham  and  the  others 
measured  to  theirs,  and  God  will  so  reward  them.  They  were  pio- 
neers in  word  and  thought  and  act  and  faith,  even  as  were  they  of 
more  exalted  station.  The  building  of  this  intermountain  empire  was 
not  done  in  a  corner  by  a  select  few  but  by  this  vast  multitude  flowing 
in  from  many  nations,  who  came  and  labored  and  wrought,  faithfully 
following  their  divinely  called  leaders. 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

We  Must  Rise  By  Our  Own  Labor 

In  living  our  lives  let  us  never  forget  that  the  deeds  of  our  fathers 
and  mothers  are  theirs,  not  ours;  that  their  works  cannot  be  counted 
to  our  glory;  that  we  can  claim  no  excellence  and  no  place,  because 
of  what  they  did,  that  we  must  rise  by  our  own  labor,  and  that  labor 
failing  we  shall  fail.  We  may  claim  no  honor,  no  reward,  no  respect, 
nor  special  position  or  recognition,  no  credit  because  of  what  our 
fathers  were  or  what  they  wrought.  We  stand  upon  our  own  feet 
in  our  own  shoes.  There  is  no  aristocracy  of  birth  in  this  Church;  it 
belongs  equally  to  the  highest  and  the  lowliest;  for  as  Peter  said  to 
Cornelius,  the  Roman  centurion,  seeking  him: 

...  Of  a  truth  I  perceive  that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons:  But  in 
every  nation  he  that  feareth  him,  and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted 
with  him.  (Acts  10:34,  35.) 

So  to  these  humble  but  great  souls,  our  fathers  and  mothers,  the 
tools  of  the  Lord,  who  have,  for  this  great  people,  hewed  the  stones 
and  laid  the  foundations  of  God's  kingdom,  solid  as  the  granite  moun- 
tains from  which  they  carved  the  rocks  for  their  temple,  to  these 
humble  souls,  great  in  faith,  great  in  work,  great  in  righteous  living, 
great  in  fashioning  our  priceless  heritage,  I  humbly  render  my  love, 
my  respect,  my  reverent  homage.  God  keep  their  memories  ever 
fresh  among  us,  their  children,  to  help  us  meet  our  duties  even  as 
they  met  theirs,  that  God's  work  may  grow  and  prosper  till  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  rules  all  nations  and  all  peoples,  till 
peace,  Christ's  peace,  shall  fill  the  whole  earth,  till  "righteousness 
shall  cover  the  earth  even  as  the  waters  cover  the  mighty  deep." 
Let  us  here  and  now  dedicate  all  that  we  have  and  all  that  we  are  to 
this  divine  work.  May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus' 
name,  his  Son.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  as  our  guest  here  today  a  man  who  represents  the  best 
type  of  American  manhood.  He  comes  from  a  family  that  helped 
to  make  this  country  what  it  is.  His  grandfather,  Colonel  Thomas  L. 
Kane,  was  one  of  the  great  Christian  patriots  of  this  world.  About 
ninety  years  ago  he  was  trying  to  get  into  this  Valley  in  order  that 
he  might  exercise  his  influence  to  prevent  the  army  of  the  United 
States  from  coming  into  the  Valley  and  destroying  what  the  Saints 
had  accumulated  while  they  had  been  here.  By  the  blessing  of  God 
he  succeeded. 

Today  we  are  honored  by  having  as  our  guest,  and  we  hope  he 
will  enjoy  being  with  us,  and  we  would  like  to  have  him  speak  to 
us  at  this  time,  Honorable  E.  Kent  Kane  a  grandson  of  the  great 
Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane,  Major  General  Kane. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


MR.  E.  KENT  KANE 

President  Smith  and  friends  of  the  Church  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  am  pleased  to  be  here  because  I  feel  that  there  exists  between  your 
people  and  mine  a  deep  and  ancient  friendship  that  as  far  as  I  am 
concerned  at  least  will  continue  until  the  end  of  my  life.  I  have 
never  had  the  obligation  nor  the  privilege  to  address  a  religious 
gathering  before  and  I  must  confess  that  I  am  like  the  man  who  just 
said  he  had  waited  some  years  to  address  you;  except  that  I  would 
almost  wait  some  years  to  get  out  of  having  to  address  you  here  now. 

I  suppose  there  are  some  of  you  here  who  may  desire  to  hear 
what  I  have  to  say,  but  I  dare  say  a  lot  more  of  you  would  just  like 
to  get  a  look  at  me  and  see  what  sort  of  a  looking  person  I  am.  I 
am  not  much  to  look  at.  But  I  have  a  slight  compensation  for  it,  be- 
cause as  I  look  out  over  this  audience  I  don't  see  so  many  Clark 
Gables  out  there,  either. 

I  feel  a  little  handicapped  to  come  before  you  after  so  many 
distinguished  speakers  who  have  covered  practically  every  conceiv- 
able subject  upon  which  I  might  desire  to  remark — even,  I  think,  the 
subject  of  my  grandfather  would  be  covered  by  Mr.  Evans  better 
than  I  could.  If  he  should  succeed  in  reconciling  all  the  facts  of  that 
very  unusual  character,  then  he  should  be  given  the  Utah  prize  for 
literary  dexterity,  and  I  hope  some  of  the  eminent  educators  I  see 
down  front  will  award  it  to  him.  It  will  be  quite  a  job  but  I  believe 
he  is  the  man  to  do  it  and  I  will  do  what  I  can  to  help  him. 

Coming  here  before  you  I  feel  a  good  deal  as  they  have  described 
St.  Paul  as  coming  before  the  men  of  Athens.  He  said,  "Ye  men  of 
Athens  . .  .  etc.,  I  perceive  ye  are  very  religious."  I  used  to  fee!  that 
the  word  "religious"  was  the  only  important  one,  but  now  I  see  that 
as  the  old  lady  said  the  emphasis  was  on  the  wrong  syllable.  I  had 
the  emphasis  on  the  wrong  syllable  and  it  was  the  fact  that  it  was  the 
men  of  Athens  who  were  very  religious  that  impressed  Paul. 

It  is  impressive  to  look  over  this  vast  audience  and  to  see  to 
what  extent  the  religion  of  your  Church  is  a  religion  of  men.  I  am 
afraid  there  are  a  lot  of  churches  that  would  perish  entirely  if  it  were 
not  for  the  fact  that  their  religion  reposes  today  almost  entirely  in  the 
hands  and  hearts  of  the  mothers.  And  yet  I  can't  believe  that  the 
battles  of  the  Lord  are  to  be  fought  entirely  by  the  distaffs  but  I  thing 
it  takes  the  good  strong  arms  of  the  men  of  any  religion  such  as  I 
see  before  me  here  to  fight  those  battles  with  a  good  firm  hold  upon 
the  sword  of  the  spirit. 

Your  religion  is  strong,  but  yet  it  seems  odd  to  you  that  though 
there  are  so  many  of  you  here  and  though  I  have  always  been  friend- 
ly to  the  Mormons,  that  I  was  35  years  of  age  before  I  so  much  as  set 
eyes  on  a  Mormon.  However,  I  started  right,  for  the  first  Mormon 
I  ever  saw  was  President  Frank  Evans  back  in  Pennsylvania  and  the 
very  first  one  I  saw  in  Utah  was  the  President  of  the  Church,  my 
honored  friend  Heber  J.  Grant.   I  cannot  give  you  a  testimonial  such 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

as  some  of  the  men  who  have  preceded  me  have  given  you  here,  but 
in  one  sense  I  can  give  you  perhaps  at  last  something  as  an  outsider 
who  has  had  the  good  fortune  to  come  and  observe  with  a  friendly, 
if  not  an  understanding  heart. 

I  was  trained  in  the  law  and  one  of  the  things  that  they  taught 
us  was  that  they  should  not  take  too  seriously  selfserving  declara- 
tions made  by  persons  in  their  own  behalf,  but  that  an  admission  by 
an  outsider  against  his  own  interest  was  to  be  given  great  weight  in 
the  law.  And  I  must  say  that  I,  an  outsider,  have  been  greatly  im- 
pressed with  the  sincerity  and  achievement  of  the  people  of  this 
Church  that  I  have  seen  here. 

Yours  is  a  singing  religion  and  I  believe  that  words  of  religion 
dissolved  in  music  soak  into  the  human  soul  better  than  any  other 
way.  A  good  hymn  is  a  good  spiritual  tonic  to  a  sick  or  frightened 
soul.  What  singing  I  have  seen  here  among  the  Mormons,  you  seem 
to  need  no  books.  It  is  as  if  when  you  open  your  mouths  to  sing  the 
spirit  entered  in. 

Yours  is  a  joyous  religion.  I  don't  see  very  many  sissies  in  your 
religion  and  there  haven't  been  any  since  the  time  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  One  of  the  gentlemen  here  this  morning  told  me  his 
father  could  remember  when  the  prophet  was  the  best  wrestler  in 
the  whole  group  with  which  he  traveled  and  would  throw  down  all 
contenders  just  as  George  Washington,  father  of  our  country,  was 
the  champion  boxer  in,  Virginia  in  his  day. 

Yours  seems  to  be  a  growing  religion  and  that  is  a  wonderful 
thing.  You  are  not  static.  You  are  not  frozen  to  one  position.  Once 
for  a  political  speech  I  had  occasion  to  see  if  I  could  find  any  of  the 
original  writings  of  Christ.  After  I  looked  I  could  only  find  one  place 
that  Christ  ever  wrote  anything  and  then  he  stooped  down  and  wrote 
with  his  finger  on  the  ground  and  we  don't  have  the  record  of  what 
he  wrote.  But  what  he  said  was:  "Let  him  that  is  without  sin  cast 
the  first  stone." 

Now  we  know  that  Jesus  Christ  was  a  scholar  because  he  disputed 
with  the  priests  in  the  temple.  We  know  that  he  could  read  and 
write.  Therefore  we  must,  as  sensible  people,  if  not  lawyers,  con- 
clude that  it  would  have  been  easy  for  him  to  put  his  entire  doctrine 
in  writing.  When  he  did  not  *do  that  we  may  assume  it  was  because 
he  did  not  do  so  deliberately.  So  that  new  situations  might  be  met 
by  new  things  and  that  churches  such  as  yours  may  freely  hold  the 
belief  that  new  revelations  may  be  granted  when  new  crises  arise. 
For  it  would  have  been  a  simple  thing  for  Jesus  Christ  to  have  writ- 
ten the  entire  text  of  his  gospel  and  had  it  saved  from  destruction 
by  the  powers  of  heaven,  which  he  could  easily  have  done. 

Yours  is  a  family  religion.  I  heard  a  gentleman  say  something 
about  backsliders  among  the  young.  For  three  years  in  this  last 
war  I  was  a  division  officer  in  the  Navy  and  I  have  a  cousin  with  the 
same  name  who  for  five  years  was  an  artillery  colonel.  We  were 
talking  about  it  the  other  day  and  we  both  agreed  that  some  of  the 


MR.  E.  KENT  KANE 


163 


very  finest  men  that  we  had  in  our  commands  in  the  service  were 
from  the  Mormon  Church  and  that  they  were  by  all  odds  the  cleanest. 
I  don't  know  what  they  do  elsewhere,  but  I  do  say  that  those  I  saw 
in  the  naval  service  were  very  creditable  members  of  your  congrega- 
tion. And  I  want  to  add  that  it  was  not  always  as  easy  as  it  would 
have  been  in  Salt  Lake  during  conference  week. 

Your  president  has  very  kindly  referred  to  my  grandfather  here 
and  I  feel  in  a  sense  that  I  could  call  your  president  my  "cousin" 
because  his  great-grandfather  called  my  grandfather  his  "brother" 
and  he  called  him  such  in  the  opening  words  of  a  blessing  which  he 
as  the  patriarch  of  this  Church,  conferred  upon  my  grandfather.  I 
have  that  blessing  at  home.  It  was  written  in  the  handwriting  of  one 
Wilford  Woodruff  and  it  lay  in  a  book  with  locks  on,  where  my 
grandfather  placed  it,  for  nearly  one  hundred  years.  So  there  was 
no  chance  of  it  being  tampered  with  because  my  father,  to  my  knowl-, 
edge  never  saw  that  blessing  during  his  entire  life  time.  I  myself 
was  the  young  vandal  who  broke  open  the  locks  when  I  inherited  it 
and  I  am  glad  I  did. 

And  again  I  give  you  an  outside  testimony  that  to  my  own 
knowledge  that  blessing  conferred  by  his  grandfather  was  carried 
out  by  events  to  the  letter  and  in  detail.  Now  as  a  lawyer  I  know  you 
will  say  that  it  could  have  been  a  "coincidence."  So  it  could.  But 
it  would  have  had  to  have  been  a  whole  series  of  "coincidences"  and 
a  whole  series  of  "remarkable  coincidences"  and  when  you  get  that 
sort  of  thing  built  up  you  have  established  circumstantial  evidence 
and  as  the  great  Thoreau  once  observed  "circumstantial  evidence 
can  sometimes  be  very  convincing  as  when  you  find  a  (brook)  trout 
in  the  milk."  I  don't  believe  it  was  "circumstantial  evidence"  or  a 
coincidence.   I  believe  that  that  prophecy  was  literally  fulfilled. 

My  mother  never  was  as  much  to  talk  about  religion  as  my  fa- 
ther, but  my  mother  had  a  couple  of  sayings  she  used  to  say  often. 
She  believed  the  Lord  helped  best  those  that  tried  to  help  themselves 
and  she  also  used  to  say  that  the  Lord  loveth  a  cheerful  giver.  And 
when  I  came  out  here  to  Utah  I  saw  how  your  people  believed 
that  the  Lord  was  your  shepherd.  You  have  created  your  own  green 
pastures  where  there  were  none  and  brought  in  your  own  running 
waters  when  you  could  find  none  to  walk  by.  I  read  how  the  women 
of  this  Church  had  at  one  time  prepared  a  table  in  the  presence  of 
your  enemies  from  the  food  that  their  husbands  had  wrenched  from 
these  deserts.  You  tried  to  help  yourselves  and  you  were  cheerful 
givers.  I  saw  that  the  Lord  had  restored  your  souls.  I  could  not  help 
but  observe  that  here  in  Utah  I  had  beheld  the  works  of  the  Lord 
made  manifest. 

Now  Lord,  thou  who  hast  been  our  dwelling  place  in  all  gen- 
erations before  ever  these  mountains  were  made  or  earth  received 
her  form,  we  pray  thee  Lord  to  look  down  on  these  thy  people.  Stretch 
forth  thine  arm  to  the  uttermost  corners  of  the  earth  and  the  isles 
of  the  sea  to  protect  and  encourage  the  children  of  this  Church  who 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Thicd  Daf 

are  out  on  missions  and  may  they  set  a  good  example  not  only  of 
what  Christian  members  of  this  Church  do  but  also  of  what  good 
Americans  can  be  when  away  from  home. 
(Aside  to  President  Smith): 

That  ends  what  I  have  to  say,  and  now  may  the  Lord  watch 
between  me  and  thee  while  we  are  absent  one  from  another. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  am  sure  we  have  all  been  delighted  to  hear  from  Mr.  Kane.  We 
are  glad  that  he  feels  like  he  wants  to  belong  to  the  family.  I  shall 
take  him  in  (laughter).  I  think  he  will  discover  that  he  has  a  lot 
more  relatives  here  who  could  call  him  brother,  so  he  will  have  no 
difficulty  in  being  at  home  with  us.  We  are  more  than  grateful  for 
his  grandfather,  and  we  are  glad  that  his  grandson  could  come  here 
and  be  with  us  today. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

We  have  been  celebrating  for  nearly  a  year.  It  has  been  a  time 
of  pleasure  and  recreation,  and  I  am  satisfied  that  had  our  pioneer 
forebears  been  here  they  too  would  have  gladly  joined  with  us.  The 
year  is  passing  now,  and  the  centuries  are  before  us.  The  best  tri- 
bute that  we  who  are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  can  pay  to  those  who  are  on  the  other  side  will  be 
to  honor  God  and  keep  his  commandments  and  by  so  doing  honor 
those  whose  names  we  bear.  In  this  way  we  will  increase  our  own 
happiness  and  provide  opportunity  for  joy  for  those  who  follow  after 
us. 

Our  Great  Responsibility 

We  will  receive  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  if  we  will  only  remem- 
ber that  since  we  are  the  children  of  God,  our  responsibility  is  greater 
than  any  other  people.  No  other  church  has  the  responsibility  that 
is  upon  this  Church  because  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  a  commandment 
to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  unto  every  creature  so 
that 

He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned.  (Mark  16:16.) 

So  it  is  not  merely  a  question  of  living  our  short  lives  in  comfort;  if  we 
expect  to  enjoy  eternal  happiness  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  we  must 
earn  it  by  doing  our  best  to  bring  as  many  of  our  Father's  children 
to  live  with  him  as  we  possibly  can. 

God  has  been  good  to  us.  No  people  in  the  world  have  more 
reason  to  be  grateful  than  we.  Here  under  the  shelter  of  this  roof 
we  can  well  pour  out  our  souls  to  him  who  is  the  Author  of  our  being 
and  remember  with  love  those,  who  under  his  watchcare,  made  it 
possible  for  us  to  enjoy  the  things  that  we  now  have. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  165 


Manifesto  Issued 

On  October  6,  1890,  in  this  Tabernacle  the  people  were  as- 
sembled in  conference.  The  Church  had  been  harassed  and  abused, 
and  property  had  been  escheated  by  the  government.  Many  had  been 
imprisoned  for  what  they  believed.  Upon  that  occasion  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  Wilford  Woodruff,  among  other  things,  de- 
livered this  message  to  us  here: 

Inasmuch  as  laws  have  been  enacted  by  Congress  forbidding  plural 
marriages,  which  laws  have  been  pronounced  constitutional  by  the  court 
of  last  resort,  I  hereby  declare  my  intention  to  submit  to  those  laws,  and 
to  use  my  influence  with  the  members  of  the  Church  over  which  I  preside 
to  have  them  do  likewise. 

That  is  a  part  of  the  Manifesto, 

After  that  had  been  read,  Lorenzo  Snow,  the  man  who  later 
succeeded  Wilford  Woodruff  as  President  of  the  Church,  said: 

I  move  that,  recognizing  Wilford  Woodruff  as  the  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  only  man  on  the 
earth  at  the  present  time  who  holds  the  keys  of  the  sealing  ordinances,  we 
consider  him  fully  authorized  by  virtue  of  his  position  to  issue  the 
Manifesto  which  has  been  read  in  our  hearing  and  which  is  dated  September 
24th,  1890,  and  that  as  a  Church  in  General  Conference  assembled,  we 
accept  his  declaration  concerning  plural  marriages  as  authoritative  and 
binding. 

*  *  ★ 

The  vote  to  sustain  the  foregoing  motion  was  unanimous. 

Practice  of  Plural  Marriage  Discontinued 

That  was  the  action  of  the  Church  at  that  time.  The  practice 
of  plural  marriage  ceased  because  the  government  of  the  United 
States  forbade  it.  Our  Heavenly  Father  has  always  directed  that  we 
sustain  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land,  and  the  Supreme  Court 
being  the  highest  authority  had  declared  the  law  forbidding  plural 
marriage  was  constitutional. 

From  then  until  now,  there  has  been  little  said  by  us,  and  now, 
after  all  these  years,  I  would  like  to  say  that  from  that  time  on,  ap- 
proximately fifty  years,  there  have  been  no  plural  marriages  solem- 
nized in  violation  of  the  laws  of  this  land  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Manifesto  Still  Binding 

I  mention  this  because,  unfortunately,  there  are  some  people  in 
the  world  who  are  still  insisting  that  we  no  longer  pay  attention  to 
the  Manifesto,  that  it  does  not  bind  us  now,  and  by  that  attitude 
some  men  and  women  are  falling  into  adultery  and  committing  a  sin 
not  only  against  the  government  of  the  United  States,  but  also  against 
the  Church  itself.  And  yet  they  say  that  because  we  are  not  talk- 
ing about  it,  that  we  condone  it. 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

As  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  say  we  do  not  condone  it.  We  desire  our  people  to  obey  the  law  of 
the  land  in  reference  to  marriage.  If  you  hear  anybody  say  that  the 
leadership  of  the  Church  is  not  in  harmony  with  the  Manifesto  of 
Wilford  Woodruff  as  sustained  by  the  Church,  then  you  may  know 
that  he  is  mistaken. 

I  regret  that  it  is  necessary  to  refer  to  this  matter,  but  there  are 
those  who  are  going  among  the  people  encouraging  the  violation  of 
the  moral  law.  That  is  what  they  are  doing,  and  if  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  stands  for  anything,  it  stands  for  morality,  and  so  to- 
day, in  the  conclusion  of  this  conference,  I  call  your  attention  to 
this  matter. 

A  Blessed  People 

No  people  in  the  world  are  more  greatly  blessed  than  we.  It  is 
marvelous  what  our  Heavenly  Father  has  done  for  us.  The  Church 
grows,  increases,  and  becomes  stronger  as  the  days  come  and  go. 

We  are  permitted  twice  a  year  to  assemble  in  this  great  building 
in  a  general  conference  and  meet  as  we  have  been  during  the  last 
three  days  to  be  instructed  by  our  brethren.  Here  under  the  influence 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  we  are  taught  to  observe  the  laws  of  the  land 
and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Now  today  I  think  we  have  reason  to  be  grateful.  There  is 
trouble  ahead.  The  world  is  sick  and  in  a  pitiable  condition,  and  until 
the  people  repent  of  their  sins  and  return  to  the  true  and  living  God, 
there  will  be  no  peace  that  will  be  worthy  of  the  name.  It  is  our  duty 
to  set  the  example;  it  is  our  duty  to  hold  aloft  the  banner  of  truth.  It 
is  our  duty  to  encourage  our  Father's  other  children  to  listen  to  his 
advice  and  counsel  and  so  adjust  things  that  wherever  we  are  we 
will  find  the  spirit  of  God  burning  in  our  souls  and  our  influence  will 
be  for  good. 

I  pray  that  we  may  continue  faithful.  I  congratulate  those  of 
you  who  are  able  to  attend  the  conference  at  this  time.  I  feel  to  bless 
the  choir  which  has  rendered  such  splendid  music  and  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  and  others  who  have  sung  for  us.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  them,  and  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  them  and  bless  us  all  that 
we  may  be  worthy  not  only  to  be  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  also  that  we  may  be  worthy  to  be 
called  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Living  God,  and  seek  to  do  his  will 
and  keep  his  commandments. 

Testimony 

God  lives.  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  The  land  that  we  live  upon,  in 
all  parts  of  this  earth,  belongs  to  him.  We  are  only  tenants  here.  He 
places  us  here  with  the  opportunity  to  prepare  ourselves  for  eternal 
happiness  and  promises  us  that  in  due  time  this  world  shall  become 
a  celestial  kingdom.  How  wonderful  it  is  for  us  to  know  that  we  have 
a  chance  to  earn  our  place  in  that  kingdom  by  following  the  advice 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  167 


and  counsel  that  he  gives  us.  If  we  continue  to  do  that,  happiness, 
satisfaction,  and  joy  will  be  our  reward. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  Living  God,  and  that  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  is  upon  the  earth.  The  power  and  authority  of 
the  priesthood  are  here,  and  if  we  will  observe  the  advice  that  has  been 
given  to  us,  if  we  will  honor  him,  who  is  the  Author  of  our  being,  not 
only  we  but  our  children  and  children's  children  will  also  be  among 
those  whom  God  will  bless  throughout  eternity.  That  is  my  testimony, 
and  I  bear  that  witness  to  you  this  day  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  already  passed  the  hour  for  closing  but  before  doing 
so  I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  tonight  at  seven  o'clock  in  this 
building  will  be  held  a  Sunday  School  Union  Meeting.  All  are  in- 
vited to  attend.  Also,  the  Dutch  conference  will  be  held  at  4:15  p.m. 
in  the  Barratt  Hall,  just  after  this  meeting;  the  Scandinavian  meet- 
ing the  same  hour  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  for  us: 

"Hallelujah"- — (From  "Messiah"  by  Handel) 

Brethren,  as  one  who  loves  you  I  desire  to  bless  you  and  pray 
our  Father  in  Heaven  to  bless  you,  that  you  may  go  from  this  confer- 
ence with  a  renewed  determination  to  be  all  that  He  desires  us  to  be 
and  that  you  will  radiate  sunshine  and  good-will,  peace  and  hope 
among  those  with  whom  you  associate,  and  I  bless  you  that  joy  may 
be  your  portion  as  long  as  you  seek  to  do  the  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  music  for  this  conference  has  been  furnished,  as  you 
know,  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  Singing  Mothers.  The 
organists  during  the  Conference  have  been  Brother  Asper  and 
Brother  Schreiner.  Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  has  led  the  singing. 
I  say  again,  we  are  grateful  to  them  and  to  all  that  contributed  to 
this  conference  that  has  been  so  delightful.  Let  us  go  to  our  homes 
with  a  renewed  determination  that  we  will  be  worthy  of  him  in 
whose  image  we  have  been  created.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 


Singing  by  the  Choir:  "Hallelujah" — (From  "Messiah"  by 
Handel). 

President  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Granite  Stake  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned,  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  5  Third  Day 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Satur- 
day and  Sunday  sessions  and  presented  musical  numbers  at  those 
meetings.  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  directed  the  singing  of 
the  Choir. 

The  choir  singing  during  the  Friday  sessions  was  by  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  from  the  Central  Utah  Region,  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  Conductor. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  Sun- 
day morning  9:30  to  10:00  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  of  the  Air 
broadcast  Sunday  morning  8:00  to  8:30,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ  and  the  spoken  word 
was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained  HI 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    23 

The  Home  a  Divine  Institution  23,  The  Training  of  Children  23,  Ob- 
ligation of  Parents  24,  No  Parent  Exempt  from  Responsibilities  24, 
Home  Evening  Inaugurated  26,  Revival  of  Home  Evening  26. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.   49 

The  Beginnings  49,  Mission  of  the  Savior  49,  Commission  to  Disciples 
50,  Miraculous  Growth  of  Early  Church  51,  Influence  of  Christian  Na- 
tions 51,  Breakdown  of  Christian  Standards  52,  Suggestion  of  Learned 
Doctor  52,  Religion  Is  God-Revealed  52. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  Ill 

Brossard,  Elder  Edgar  B.   76 

Cannon,  Elder  Eugene  M   78 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch 

Organizations   29 

Church  of  the  Air  Program  107 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  28,  53,  114,  140 

Clark,  President  J*  Reuben,  Jr  154 

Tribute  to  Pioneers  154,  They  of  the  Last  Wagon  155,  Contributions 
of  Humble  Souls  159,  We  Must  Rise  by  Our  Own  Labor  160. 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   80 

Church  Brings  Salvation  80,  Gratitude  for  Faith  of  Teachers  81, 
Blessings  of  Temple  Work  81,  Salvation  for  the  Dead  82,  Gathering 
of  Genealogies  83,  Testimony  Concerning  Brethren  83. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   91 

Brethren  Who  Have  Passed  On  91,  Growth  of  Church  91,  Increase  of 
Responsibility  92,  Accepting  Responsibility  in  the  Church  93,  Avoid 
Giving  Offense  93,  Confidence  in  Church  94. 

Evans,  Elder  Frank  101 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   28 

Folland,  Elder  Richard  E.  138 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church  Sustained  141 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R.   95 

Blessings  Provided  for  Youth  95,  Gospel  Brings  Joy  95,  Shadows  of 
True  Happiness  96,  Tobacco  Habit  96,  Nicotine  a  Deadly  Poison  96, 
The  Drinking  Habit  97,  Sex  Immorality  98,  Bodies  Are  Temples  of 
God  99,  Blessings  Promised  to  Righteous  99. 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   84 

Tabernacle  Choir  84,  A  Tribute  to  Church  Officials  85,  A  Visit  to  the 
Sacred  Grove  85,  The  Youth  of  the  Church  86,  Stay  Close  to  the 
Lord  87. 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   87 

Pioneer  Standards  and  Ideals  87,  Founding  of  St.  George  88,  Gener- 
osity Exhibited  88,  Spirit  of  Independence  89,  Measuring  Up  to  Lofty 
Ideals  89,  Faith  in  Youth  90. 

Johanneson,  Elder  Fritz    69 

Kane,  E.  Kent  161 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.   15 

Indian  Groups  Visited  15,  Responsibility  to  Preach  Gospel  to  Laman- 
ites  15,  Destiny  of  the  Church  16,  History  of  Indian  Conversions  17, 
Missions  Serving  the  Lamanites  17,  Interest  in  Lamanites  Increasing 
19,  Story  of  Polacca  Family  20,  Lamanites  to  be  "White  and  De- 
lightsome" 22.  . 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   9 

Boy  Scout  Jamboree  9,  Impressive  Sights  of  Old  World  9,  Welcome  in 
France  10,  Reasons  for  Attending  Jamboree  10. 

Lee,  Eider  Harold  B   62 


Prayer  of  Chaplain  63,  Gospel  "Perfect  Law  of  Liberty"  63,  "Ye  Must 
Be  Born  Again"  64,  Parable  of  the  Sower  64,  Failure  to  Realize  Bless- 
ings 65,  Apostates  in  Darkness  66,  Pure  in  Heart  See  God  66,  Critics 
Spiritually  Sick  67. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.   59 

Vision  Given  to  Joseph  Smith  59,  Kingdom  Organized  60,  Valiance 
to  the  Truth  60,  Keys  of  the  Kingdom  61,  Church  Led  by  Revelation 
61,  Harmony  with  the  Scriptures  62. 

McKay,  President  David  0  54  ,70,  76,  77,  79 

McKay,  President  David  O*  115 

Appreciation  of  Utah  Centennial  Commission  115,  Gratitude  for  Bless- 
ings 115,  Epoch-making  Period  116,  Scientific  Progress  116,  Re- 
sponsibility to  Control  Discoveries  117,  Need  for  Divine  Guidance 
117,  Opportunity  for  Scientific  Advancement  118,  Repentance  Need- 
ed 119,  Plan  of  Action  Suggested  119,  World  Needs  Spirituality  120, 
Gospel  Offers  Solution  121. 


McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.   127 

Activity  Brings  Joy  128,  Story  of  Japanese  Philosopher  129,  The  Love 
of  Money  130,  Fast  Offering  Plan  Recommended  131. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   32 

Use  of  Alcohol  Destructive  32,  Billions  of  Dollars  Wasted  33,  Lectures 
on  "You  and  Alcohol"  33,  Alcoholism  a  Disease  34,  Bill  to  Prohibit 
Advertising  of  Liquor  34,  Support  of  Capper  Bill  Urged  36,  Church 
for  Total  Abstinence  36,  Liquor  Advertising  Unmoral  37. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.   42 

Testimony  of  Welfare  Program  42,  Opposition  of  Adversary  43, 
Observance  of  the  Sabbath  Day  43,  Obedience  Brings  Blessings  44, 
The  Spirit  of  Service  45,  Honor  to  Parents  45,  Value  of  Free  Agency 
46,  Support  of  Welfare  Program  46. 

Passed  Away,  Those  Who  Have   32 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.  107 

Freedom  of  Righteousness  107,  Factors  Weakening  America  108,  In- 
fluence of  Home  Life  109,  The  Golden  Rule  109,  Religion  the  Source 
of  Virtues  110,  America's  Need  for  God  110. 

Presentation  of  Authorities  141 


INDEX 


171 


Richards,  President  George  F.    55 

Gospel  Answers  Important  Questions  55,  Obedience  Brings  Order  and 
Beauty  56,  The  Influence  of  Religion  56,  Punishment  of  the  wicked 
56,  Gospel  Preached  to  Spirits  in  Prison  57,  Second  Coming  of  the 
Savior  58,  Testimony  59. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   70 

Aaronic  Priesthood  Pageant  70,  Parents  Influence  Children  71,  Teach 
Children  to  Honor  the  Sabbath  73,  Work  for  Your  Children's  Wel- 
fare 73,  Faith  of  Widow  74,  Pray  for  Your  Children  75. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L.   131 

Bearers  of  the  Gospel  Message  131,  Message  Defines  Religion  132, 
Religion  a  Motivating  Force  132,  Religion  Needed  in  World  Affairs 
133,  Inalienable  Rights  133,  Need  for  Divine  Aid  134,  Program  to  Meet 
World  Crisis  134,  Failure  of  World  Religions  135,  Answers  to  Life's 
Questions  135,  Divine  Commission  to  Act  135,  Church  to  Take  the 
Lead  136. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.   38 

Peace  in  the  Midst  of  Turmoil  38,  Guiding  Principles  of  Truth  38, 
Government  of  the  Church  39,  Principle  of  Common  Consent  39,  Lead- 
ership Inspired  40,  Man  Responsible  for  His  Acts  41. 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   54 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   79 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G.    47 

Reason  for  Progress  47,  The  Power  of  Testimony  48. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  2,  11,  28,  54,  79,  80,  90,  100,  105 

....  106,  114,  141, 144,  154, 160,  164,  167 

Smith,  President  George  Albert    3 

Events  of  100  Years  Ago  3,  Walking  Stick  of  Thomas  L.  Kane  4, 
Temple  Square  5,  Relief  of  European  Saints  5,  Visit  to  President  Tru- 
man 5,  Accomplishments  of  the  Last  Century  6,  The  Handcart  Pioneers 
7,  The  Inspiration  in  Worship  7,  Thanksgiving  for  Blessings  8. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  164 

Our  Great  Responsibility  164,  Manifesto  Issued  165,  Practice  of  Plural 
Marriage  Discontinued  165,  Manifesto  Still  Binding  165,  A  Blessed 
People  166. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  144; 

Two  Great  Commandments  145,  Eternal  Life  145,  Atonement  of  Christ 
146,  The  Free  Gift  of  God  146,  Gratitude  for  Blessings  147,  Suffering 
of  the  Savior  147,  Transgressor  Shows  Ingratitude  148. 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  Ill 

Third  Day   107 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   114 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   140 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  149 

Appreciation  for  Centennial  Program  149,  The  Glory  of  the  Pioneers 
150,  Woman's  Contribution  150,  Faith  of  Pioneer  Women  151,  Ap- 
preciation for  Work  of  Women  151,  The  Evil  of  Divorce  152,  Need 
for  Common  Interest  in  Kingdom  of  God  153. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.   121 

A  Guide  at  the  Crossroads  122,  A  Prophet  Raised  Up  122,  Achieve- 
ments from  Following  Counsel  123,  Faith  of  a  Pioneer  124,  Wasted 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Food  Now  Needed  124,  Obedience  to  Counsel  Rewarded  125,  Obli- 
gation of  Priesthood  126,  A  Light  to  the  World  127. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   68 

Philosophies  of  Men  68,  Strength  and  Power  of  Gospel  Message  68. 
Young,  President  Levi  Edgar    12 

Contributions  to  Peace  12,  Uncertainty  in  Christian  World  12,  High- 
est Concepts  of  Freedom  13,  Obedience  to  Law  Is  Liberty  13,  Mis- 
sionary Calling  of  Seventies  14,  Ideals  of  Sermon  on  the  Mount  14. 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS  $2.25 

David  O.  McKay         ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

James  E.  Talmage        JESUS  THE  CHRIST    2.50 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    1.50 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith   ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY    2.50 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 
JOSEPH  SMITH    2.50 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH    2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION    1.75 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES    1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS..  1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe         IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH   50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 

GOVERNMENT    1.75 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY    1.00 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG    2.50 

Richard  L.  Evans        UNTO  THE  HILLS   1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS    1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"    1.50 


These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-Day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 

THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST 


