ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-THIRD 

SEMI-ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OCTOBER  4,  5,  6,  1963 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 


Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-third  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty- Third  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
October  4,  5,  and  6,  1963. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m. 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  Octo- 
ber 5,  at  7:00  p.m. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  to  overflow  gatherings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square, 
over  a  loudspeaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision. Additional  thousands  listened  to 
the  services  on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds 
by  means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  were  broadcast  and 
telecast  over  Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV, 
and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  to  the 
largest  world-wide  audience  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church.  The  proceedings 
were  disseminated  over  many  radio  and 
television  stations  from  Coast  to  Coast 
in  the  United  States,  in  Hawaii;  also 
television  stations  in  Canada  released 
portions  of  the  Conference  sessions. 

The  Conference  proceedings  were  re- 
leased over  international  short-wave  sta- 
tion WRUL  and  carried  in  English  to 
Europe,  Africa,  Central  and  South 
America,  and  parts  of  Asia.  Spanish 
translations  were  broadcast  to  Central 
and  South  America  and  to  Mexico  and 
the  Caribbean  area.  For  the  first  time 
short-wave  transmissions  included  Ger- 
man and  Portuguese  translations.  The 
various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
also  rebroadcast  over  KSL  the  follow- 
ing morning. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  370  other  separate  gather- 


ings from  Coast  to  Coast  and  in  Alaska 
and  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  pres- 
ent and  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions 
and  conducted  the  services  of  each 
meeting. 

A  full  report  of  the  Sunday  morning 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
is  included  in  this  record,  as  is  also  a 
full  account  of  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  127  to  132.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Hugh  B.  Brown,1  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner.2 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Thomas  S. 
Monson.3 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  sustained  as  First 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  succeeding  President 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  who  passed  away  September  18, 
1963. 

2Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  was  sustained  as  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  succeeding  President  Hugh  B.  Brown  who 
was  sustained  as  First  Counselor. 

aElder  Thomas  S.  Monson  was  sustained  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  to  fill  the 
vacancy  caused  by  the  appointment  of  Elder  Nathan 
Eldon  Tanner  as  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


4,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Boyd  K.  Packer, 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  5, 
Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  6,  \  8,  9. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Vanden- 
berg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants:  A. 
William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 


Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Chancellor  of  the  Church 
School  System,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institute,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
and  quorum  presidencies  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic 
Priesthoods. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

aElder  Theodore  M.  Burton  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean Mission. 

5Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  absent  because  of  illness. 

6Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  absent  because  of  illness. 

7Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  presiding  over  the  South- 
em  Australian  Mission. 

8Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  presiding  over  the  British 
Mission. 

BElder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  presiding  over  the  South 
American  Mission. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-Third  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday  morning,  October  4, 
1963,  at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President 
David  O.  McKay  presiding  and  con- 
ducting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Phoenix-Mesa  (Arizona)  area 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this  ses- 
sion. Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
was  the  conductor.  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  was  the 
accompanist. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Quoting  a  stanza  from  a  hymn  the  pio- 
neers used  to  sing: 

"How  swift  the  months  have  passed 
away 

'Tis  Conference  again 

And  Zion's  untold  thousands  come 

To  hear  the  welcome  strain." 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Thirty-Third  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  historic  Salt  Lake  Tab- 
ernacle on  Temple  Square. 

During  the  past  two  days,  approxi- 
mately 9,000  women  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety have  held  their  annual  conference 
meetings  in  this  building.  We  are 
deeply  grateful  for  the  service  rendered 
by  the  members  of  this  great  organiza- 
tion. We  express  sincere  appreciation  to 
the  General  Presidency  and  members  of 
the  General  Board  for  their  devotion  and 
service.  God  bless  them  as  they  con- 
tinue to  inspire  and  instruct  the  women 
of  the  Church. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  are  in 
attendance  at  this  Conference  excepting 
those  who  are  presiding  over  foreign 
missions.  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  is  President 


of  the  West  European  Mission,  is  here 
with  us  this  morning,  having  returned 
to  Salt  Lake  City  to  undergo  surgery. 
He  is  recuperating  under  doctor's  orders 
before  returning  to  the  mission  field. 
The  others  who  are  absent  are:  Elder 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission;  Elders  Bruce  R.  McConkie, 
Marion  D.  Hanks,  A.  Theodore  Tuttle 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  are  pre- 
siding over  the  Southern  Australian, 
British  and  South  American  Missions  re- 
spectively. Elders  Levi  Edgar  Young 
and  Milton  R.  Hunter  are  absent  be- 
cause of  illness. 

We  miss  the  presence  of  President 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  who  passed  away 
September  18,  1963.  I  like  to  think  he 
will  be  listening  in  here  with  us  this 
morning. 

You  will  be  interested  in  knowing 
that  by  radio  and  television  broadcast- 
ing the  proceedings  of  this  Conference 
will  reach  the  largest  world-wide  audi- 
ence in  the  history  of  the  Church.  KSL 
Radio  and  Television  will  broadcast  all 
sessions  of  the  Conference,  and  will  be 
joined  by  many  other  stations  in  carry- 
ing all  or  parts  of  the  Conference.  The 
proceedings  will  be  widely  disseminated 
over  many  radio  and  television  stations 
from  Coast  to  Coast  in  the  United 
States,  in  Hawaii;  also  television  sta- 
tions in  Canada  will  be  releasing  por- 
tions of  the  Conference  sessions. 

For  the  fourth  consecutive  time  Con- 
ference sessions  will  be  released  over 
international  short-wave  station  WRUL, 
with  its  five  short-wave  transmitters 
near  Boston,  Massachusetts,  by  way  of 
its  New  York  Studios.  WRUL  will  carry 
the  Conference  in  English  to  Europe, 
Africa,  Central  and  South  America,  parts 
of  Asia.  Spanish  translations  will  also 
be  broadcast  to  Central  and  South 
America  and  to  Mexico  and  the  Carib- 
bean area.  For  the  first  time  short-wave 
transmissions  will  include  German  and 
Portuguese  translations. 

This  is  a  great  age  in  which  we  live, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


4 

Friday,  October  4 

and  we  express  our  thanks  and  gratitude 
to  an  overruling  Providence  for  having 
inspired  inventors  and  scientists  through- 
out passing  time,  and  especially  during 
the  past  100  years.  We  express  appre- 
ciation to  the  dedicated  men  and 
women  who  have  applied  these  inven- 
tions and  discoveries  for  the  guidance, 
convenience  and  blessing  of  mankind. 
Now,  because  of  their  service  and  dedi- 
cation, we  are  able  to  transmit  in  a 
brief  period  of  time  the  glad  tidings  of 
the  gospel  to  millions  throughout  the 
world. 

We  are  deeply  appreciative  of  all  the 
men  who  are  assisting  the  Church  to- 
day in  its  effort  to  disseminate  the  gospel 
to  the  peoples  of  the  earth. 

To  all — to  those  gathered  here  in  the 
Tabernacle,  to  the  overflow  gatherings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  to  the  radio  and 
television  audiences — in  behalf  of  the 
First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  the  other  General  Authori- 
ties, I  extend  a  cordial  and  hearty 
welcome. 

Any  important  messages  that  come  to 
us  for  persons  attending  the  Conference 
will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of 
the  meetings  over  the  public  address 
system  on  the  grounds. 

These  lovely  flowers  have  been  ar- 
ranged on  the  rostrum  by  our  Church 
gardeners  under  the  direction  of  Brother 
Irvin  T.  Nelson.  Thank  you,  brethren, 
for  this  thoughtful  service. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the 
Phoenix-Mesa  (Arizona)  area,  with 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  as 
their  conductor,  will  furnish  the  music 
for  the  sessions  today.  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  will  be  at  the  organ.  We  are  al- 
ways happy  to  have  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  with  us,  and  we  extend 
a  cordial  welcome  to  them  this  morning. 

We  have  received  the  following  tele- 
grams: 

From  President  and  Sister  Ned 
Winder  of  the  Florida  Mission:  "The 
missionaries  and  Saints  of  the  Florida 
Mission  send  greetings  and  all  good 
wishes  to  you,  the  other  General  Au- 
thorities, and  members  of  the  Church 
everywhere  as  we  look  forward  to 
Conference." 

And  from  President  Grant  S.  Thorn  of 


First  Day 

the  Northeast  British  Mission:  "The 
missionaries  and  members  of  the  North- 
east British  Mission  send  their  love  and 
best  wishes  for  another  glorious  Confer- 
ence. The  work  is  rapidly  moving  for- 
ward, and  we  are  pleased  to  report  all 
is  well." 

From  President  and  Sister  Fred  W. 
Schwendiman,  New  Zealand  South  Mis- 
sion: "Greetings  and  love  to  the  Church 
Authorities  and  members  assembled  in 
General  Conference  from  missionaries 
and  members  of  the  New  Zealand 
South  Mission." 

We  especially  welcome,  and  are  grate- 
ful for  the  presence  of  our  stake  presi- 
dencies, temple  presidents,  bishoprics, 
high  councilmen,  general  auxiliary  offi- 
cers, and  other  general  officers  of  the 
Church,  many  of  whom  have  traveled 
long  distances  to  be  in  attendance  at 
this  Conference. 

I  am  sure  you  will  be  pleased  to  wel- 
come, as  I  am,  men  of  the  nation  and 
of  the  state  holding  prominent  posi- 
tions. The  following  are  now  seen 
before  me: 

Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett,  United 
States  Senator;  Congressman  Sherman  P. 
Lloyd,  U.  S.  Congressman;  Ralph  Hard- 
ing, Congressman  from  Idaho;  George 
Dewey  Clyde,  Governor  of  the  State  of 
Utah;  Lamont  F.  Toronto,  Secretary  of 
State;  Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  Presi- 
dent of  Brigham  Young  University;  Dr. 
A.  Ray  Olpin,  President  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah;  Dr.  Daryl  Chase,  President 
of  the  Utah  State  University;  Dr.  John 
L.  Clarke,  President  of  Ricks  College; 
Dr.  William  P.  Miller,  President  of 
Weber  College;  Dr.  Howard  McDonald, 
formerly  of  the  City  College  of  Los 
Angeles;  Dr.  Royden  C.  Braithwaite,  Di- 
rector of  USU  Branch  at  Cedar  City; 
Dr.  Terrel  H.  Bell,  Superintendent  of 
Public  Instruction;  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Ben- 
nion,  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Public  Schools;  A  Sherman  Christenson, 
Judge  of  the  Federal  Court;  Jesse  A. 
Udall,  Associate  Supreme  Judge  of  Ari- 
zona; and  undoubtedly  others.  We 
welcome  you  and  are  glad  you  share  in 
this  important  Conference  today. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion, as  already  announced,  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Singing  Mothers  from  the 
Phoenix-Mesa    (Arizona)    area,  with 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Sister  Madsen  conducting  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
this  session  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers  rendering  "The  Heavens 
Are  Telling." 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Samuel  R.  Carpenter,  formerly 
president  of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang,  "The  Heavens  Are  Telling,"  fol- 
lowing which  the  invocation  was  offered 
by  Elder  Samuel  R.  Carpenter,  formerly 
president  of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 


Samuel  R.  Carpenter,  formerly  president 
of  the  Central  States  Mission.  The 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now 
favor  us  with  "Open  Our  Eyes,"  con- 
ducted by  Sister  Florence  Jcpperson 
Madsen. 

Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "Open  Our  Eyes." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Sister  Madsen  and  you  Singing  Moth- 
ers, you  have  inspired  thousands,  tens 
of  thousands — perhaps  millions — by 
that  inspiring  chorus. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


I  pray  for  your  sympathy,  your  prayers, 
while  I  say  a  few  words  at  the  opening 
of  this  great  conference. 

"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned 
him  with  glory  and  honour."  (Psalm 
8:4-5.) 

Animals  and  other  living  things  can 
grow  and  reproduce  their  kind  only  in 
accordance  with  the  fixed  laws  of  nature 
and  the  divine  command,  "Let  the  earth 
bring  forth  the  living  creature  after  his 
kind,  cattle,  and  creeping  thing,  and 
beast  of  the  earth  after  his  kind:  .  .  ." 
(Gen.  1:24.) 

Man,  in  his  physical  organism  being 
material  and  chemical  the  same  as  that 
of  the  animal,  also  is  subject  to  the  ap- 
petites, passions,  and  other  cravings  of 
the  physical  body.  To  him,  however,  is 
given  a  special  endowment  not  be- 
stowed upon  any  other  living  thing. 
When  the  Creator  "breathed  into  his 
nostrils  the  breath  of  life,  and  man 
became  a  living  soul,"  God  gave  him 
the  power  of  choice.  (Ibid.,  2:7.)  Only 
to  the  human  being  did  the  Creator 
say:  ".  .  .  thou  mayest  choose  for  thy- 
self, for  it  is  given  unto  thee.  .  .  ." 
(Moses  3:17.)  As  God  intended  man 
to  become  as  he,  it  was  necessary  that 
He  should  first  make  him  free. 

Thus  man  was  endowed  with  the 


greatest  blessing  that  can  be  given  to 
mortal  beings — the  gift  of  free  agency. 
Without  this  divine  power  to  choose, 
humanity  cannot  progress. 

Commenting  upon  this  special  en- 
dowment, a  leading  scientist,  Dr.  Le- 
comte  du  Nouy  in  Human  Destiny  said: 
"By  giving  man  liberty  and  conscience, 
God  abdicated  a  part  of  His  omnipo- 
tence in  favor  of  His  creature  and  this 
represents  the  spark  of  God  in  man 
('God  is  within  you').  Liberty  is  real, 
for  God  Himself  refused  to  trammel  it." 

".  .  .  cheer  up  your  hearts,"  admon- 
ished the  ancient  prophet,  "and  remem- 
ber that  ye  are  free  to  act  for  yourselves." 
(2  Nephi  10:23.) 

Freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  action 
within  boundaries  that  do  not  infringe 
upon  the  liberty  of  others  are  man's 
inherent  right — divine  gifts  "essential  to 
human  dignity  and  human  happiness." 

What  a  travesty  on  human  nature 
when  a  person  or  a  group  of  persons, 
though  endov/ed  with  a  consciousness  of 
being  able  to  rise  in  human  dignity  to 
realms  indiscernible  by  lower  creatures, 
yet  will  still  be  content  to  obey  ammal 
instincts,  without  putting  forth  efforts 
to  experience  the  joy  of  goodness,  purity, 
self-mastery,  and  faith  that  spring  from 
compliance  to  moral  rules!  How  tragic 
it  is  when  man,  made  a  "little  lower 
than  the  angels  and  crowned  with  glory 
and  honour"  (Psalm  8:5),  will  content 
himself  to  grovel  on  the  animal  plane. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

"This  love  of  liberty  which  God  has 
planted  in  us,"  said  Abraham  Lincoln, 
"constitutes  the  bulwark  of  our  liberty 
and  independence.  It  is  not  our  formi- 
dable battlements,  or  bristling  seacoasts, 
or  in  our  Navy.  Our  defense  is  in  the 
spirit  which  prizes  liberty  as  the  heritage 
of  all  men  in  all  lands  everywhere. 
Destroy  this  spirit,  and  we  have  planted 
the  seeds  of  despotism  at  our  own  doors." 

The  opposite  of  freedom  is  bondage, 
servility,  restraint,  conditions  that  in- 
hibit mentality,  stifle  the  spirit,  and 
crush  manhood.  To  coerce,  to  compel 
to  bring  the  individual  into  servitude  is 
the  communist  plan  for  the  human 
family. 

Aside  from  resisting  such  oppression 
from  without,  each  individual  carries 
within  himself  the  responsibility  of  liv- 
ing nobly  or  ignobly.  Daily  every 
normal  person  is  faced  with  the  choice 
of  submission  to  what  Paul  designated 
the  "works  of  the  flesh,"  (Gal.  5:19) 
or  of  reaching  upward  for  the  fruits  of 
the  Spirit,  which  are  "love,  joy,  peare, 
longsuffering,  gentleness,  goodness,  faith, 
meekness,  temperance."  (Ibid.,  5:22-23.) 

Conditions  in  the  world  today  seem 
to  indicate  that  too  manv  human  beings 
are  living  not  very  far  above  the  animal 
plane.  Cunning,  deception,  thieving, 
lying,  cruelty,  brutality,  warring  con- 
flicts are  still  all  too  common  even 
among  Christian  nations. 

Charles  Wagner  in  The  Simple  Life 
gives  this  impressive  warning  against 
indulgence  in  animal  desires: 

"He  who  lives  to  eat,  drink,  sleep, 
dress,  take  his  walk — in  short,  pamper 
himself  all  that  he  can — be  it  the 
courtier  basking  in  the  sun,  the  drunken 
laborer,  the  commoner  serving  his  belly, 
the  woman  absorbed  in  her  toilettes, 
the  profligate  of  low  estate  or  high,  or 
simply  the  ordinary  pleasure-lover,  a 
'good  fellow,'  but  too  obedient  to  mate- 
rial needs — that  man  or  woman  is  on 
the  downward  way  of  desire,  and  the 
descent  is  fatal.  Those  who  follow  it 
obey  the  same  laws  as  a  body  on  an 
inclined  plane.  Dupes  of  an  illusion 
forever  repeated,  they  think:  'Just  a  few 
steps  more,  the  last,  toward  the  thing 
down  there  that  we  covet;  then  we  will 
halt.'  But  the  velocity  they  gain  sweeps 


First  Day 

them  on,  and  the  further  they  go  the 
less  able  they  are  to  resist  it. 

"Here  is  the  secret  of  the  unrest,  the 
madness,  of  many  of  our  contemporaries. 
Having  condemned  their  will  to  the 
service  of  their  appetites,  they  suffer  the 
penalty.  They  are  delivered  up  to  vio- 
lent passions  which  devour  their  flesh, 
crush  their  bones,  suck  their  blood,  and 
cannot  be  sated.  This  is  not  a  lofty 
moral  denunciation.  I  have  been  lis- 
tening to  what  life  says,  and  have 
recorded,  as  I  heard  them,  some  of  the 
truths  that  resound  in  every  square. 

"Has  drunkenness,  inventive  as  it  is 
of  new  drinks,  found  the  means  of 
quenching  thirst?  Not  at  all.  It  might 
rather  be  called  the  art  of  making  thirst 
inextinguishable.  Frank  libertinage,  does 
it  deaden  the  sting  of  the  senses?  No; 
it  envenoms  it,  converts  natural  desire 
into  a  morbid  obsession  and  makes  it 
the  dominant  passion.  Let  your  needs 
rule  you,  pamper  them — you  will  see 
them  multiply  like  insects  in  the  sun. 
The  more  you  give  them,  the  more  they 
demand.  He  is  senseless  who  seeks 
for  happiness  in  material  prosperity 
alone.  .  .  .  Our  needs,  in  place  of  the 
servants  that  they  should  be,  become  a 
turbulent  and  seditious  crowd,  a  legion 
of  tyrants  in  miniature.  A  man  enslaved 
to  his  needs  may  best  be  compared  to 
a  bear  with  a  ring  in  its  nose  that  is 
led  about  and  made  to  dance  at  will. 
The  likeness  is  not  flattering,  but  you 
will  grant  that  it  is  true. 

"It  is  only  by  direct  action  on  youth 
that  a  better  society  can  be  successfully 
moulded.  All  pseudo-mysticisms — social, 
philosophical  or  political — must  be  re- 
placed by  the  Christian  ideal,  the  only 
one  based  on  liberty  and  the  respect  of 
human  dignity.  When  people  have  re- 
ceived the  same  education,  when  they 
obey  the  same  moral  rules  and  think 
universally,  they  do  not  easily  accept 
the  idea  of  fighting  each  other  and  are 
very  near  an  understanding. 

"Today  the  nations  constituted  by 
individuals  but  possessing  their  own 
independent  life  want  to  exist  and  con- 
centrate all  their  efforts  toward  this 
goal,  sometimes  sincerely  in  the  interest 
of  their  members,  sometimes  solely  in 
the  interest  of  their  leaders  or  of  what 
the  latter  believe  is  an  ideal  superior 


PRESIDENT  D. 

to  that  of  the  individual.  Governments, 
evidently,  have  the  duty  to  protect  their 
countries  against  enemies,  for  in  so  do- 
ing they  protect  the  individual  which 
they  are  supposed  to  represent.  But 
they  also  have  the  duty  to  prepare  the 
future  by  spreading  the  light  and  by 
attacking  the  roots  of  the  evil." 
We  sing: 

"In  sylvan  depth  and  shade, 
In  forest  and  in  glade, 
Where'er  we  pass, 
The  hand  of  God  we  see 
In  leaf  and  bud  and  tree 
Or  bird  or  humming  bee 
Or  blade  of  grass." 

— Emmeline  B.  Wells 

We  drive  up  the  canyons  and  thrill 
with  the  glory  of  nature  bedecked  in 
the  brilliance  of  her  autumn  colors  and 
find  ourselves  interested  in  the  story  of 
past  ages  as  we  pass  in  rapid  succession 
the  everlasting  cliffs  of  conglomerate, 
granite-like  strata  of  gneiss  and  lime- 
stone or  pause  with  the  poet  and 
pluck  a — 

"Flower  in  the  crannied  wall, 
I  pluck  you  out  of  the  crannies, 
I  hold  you  here,  root  and  all,  in  my 
hand, 

Little  flower— but  if  I  could  understand 
What  you  are,  root  and  all,  and  all 
in  all, 

I  should  know  what  God  and  man  is." 

— Tennyson 

But  earth  in  all  its  majesty  and  won- 
der is  not  the  end  and  purpose  of 
creation.  ".  .  .  my  glory,"  says  the  Lord 
himself,  "(is)  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(Moses  1:39.)  And  man  in  exercising 
the  divine  gift  of  free  agency  should  feel 
in  duty  bound,  should  sense  the  obliga- 
tion to  assist  the  Creator  in  the 
accomplishment  of  this  divine  purpose. 

The  true  end  of  life  is  not  mere  exist- 
ence, not  pleasure,  not  fame,  not  wealth. 
The  true  purpose  of  life  is  the  perfection 
of  humanity  through  individual  effort, 
under  the  guidance  of  God's  inspiration. 

Real  life  is  response  to  the  best  within 
us.  To  be  alive  only  to  appetite,  plea- 
sure, pride,  money-making,  and  not  to 
goodness  and  kindness,  purity  and  love, 


VID  O.  McKAY  7 

poetry,  music,  flowers,  stars,  God  and 
eternal  hopes,  is  to  deprive  one's  self  of 
the  real  joy  of  living. 

In  man's  life,  this  physical  stage,  man 
finds  activity  in  two  phases:  first  in  the 
struggle  for  livelihood  and  comforts; 
and,  second  in  the  tendency  to  grovel. 
The  first  is  natural  and  most  commend- 
able. The  second  is  debasing,  and 
when  unrestrained  leads  one  to  the  level 
of  animals.  When  a  man  harbors  the 
thought  that  he  will  obtain  a  liveli- 
hood by  injuring  his  neighbor,  that  mo- 
ment he  begins  to  circumscribe  his 
life;  bitterness  replaces  happiness;  sor- 
didness  supplants  generosity;  hatred 
takes  the  place  of  love,  and  beastliness 
takes  the  place  of  humanity. 

Generally  there  is  in  man  a  divinity 
which  strives  to  push  him  onward  and 
upward.  We  believe  that  this  power 
within  him  is  the  spirit  that  comes 
from  God.  Man  lived  before  he  came 
to  this  earth,  and  he  is  here  now  to 
strive  to  perfect  the  spirit  within.  At 
sometime  in  his  life,  every  man  is  con- 
scious of  a  desire  to  come  in  touch  with 
the  Infinite.  His  spirit  reaches  out  for 
God.  This  sense  of  feeling  is  universal, 
and  all  men  ought  to  be,  in  deepest 
truth,  engaged  in  the  same  great  work — 
the  search  for  and  the  development  of 
spiritual  peace  and  freedom. 

Each  one  of  us  is  the  architect  of 
his  own  fate,  and  he  is  unfortunate  in- 
deed who  will  try  to  build  himself 
without  the  inspiration  of  God;  without 
realizing  that  he  grows  from  within, 
not  from  without. 

Trees  that  can  stand  in  the  midst  of 
the  hurricane  often  yield  to  the  destroy- 
ing pests  that  we  can  scarcely  see  with 
a  microscope.  Likewise  the  greatest 
foes  of  humanity  today  are  the  subtle 
and  sometimes  unseen  influences  at 
work  in  society  that  are  undermining 
the  manhood  and  womanhood  of  today. 
The  test,  after  all,  of  the  faithfulness 
and  effectiveness  of  God's  people  is  an 
individual  one.  What  is  the  indi- 
vidual doing? 

Every  temptation  that  comes  to  you 
and  me  comes  in  one  of  three  forms: 

(1)  A  temptation  of  the  appetite  or 
passion; 

(2)  A  yielding  to  pride,  fashion,  or 
vanity; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

(3)  A  desire  for  worldly  riches  or 
power  and  dominion  over  lands  or 
earthly  possessions  of  men. 

Such  temptations  come  to  us  in  our 
social  gatherings;  they  come  to  us  in 
our  political  strivings;  they  come  to  us 
in  our  business  relations,  on  the  farm, 
in  the  mercantile  establishment;  in  our 
dealings  in  all  the  affairs  of  life  we 
find  these  insidious  influences  working. 
It  is  when  they  manifest  themselves  to 
the  consciousness  of  each  individual  that 
the  defense  of  truth  should  exert  itself. 

The  Church  teaches  that  life  here  is 
probationary.  It  is  man's  duty  to  be- 
come the  master,  not  the  slave  of  nature. 
His  appetites  are  to  be  controlled  and 
used  for  the  benefit  of  his  health  and 
the  prolongation  of  his  life — his  pas- 
sions mastered  and  controlled  for  the 
happiness  and  blessing  of  others. 

Man's  greatest  happiness  comes  from 
losing  himself  for  the  good  of  others. 
The  advancement  of  science  and  the 
new  discoveries  from  the  dawn  of  his- 
tory to  the  present  are  the  results  of  the 
efforts  of  men  who  have  been  willing 
to  sacrifice  themselves  if  necessary  for 
the  cause  of  truth. 

"What  pains  and  tears  the  slightest 
step  forward  of  man's  progress  have 
cost!  Every  hair-breadth  forward  has 
been  in  the  agony  of  some  soul,  and 
humanity  has  attained  blessing  after 
blessing  of  all  its  vast  achievement  of 
good  with  bleeding  feet." 

We  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact, 
however,  that  these  great  leaders  of  the 
world  were  more  than  compensated  by 
the  supreme  joy  that  comes  from 
achievement. 

Today  there  are  those  who  have  met 
disaster  which  almost  seems  defeat, 
who  have  become  somewhat  soured  in 
their  natures;  but  if  they  stop  to  think, 
even  the  adversity  which  has  come  to 
them  may  prove  a  means  of  spiritual 
uplift.  Adversity  itself  may  lead  to- 
ward and  not  away  from  God  and 
spiritual  enlightenment;  and  privation 
may  prove  a  source  of  strength  if  we 
can  but  keep  the  sweetness  of  mind  and 
spirit.  "Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity," 
said  Shakespeare,  "which,  like  the  toad, 
ugly  and  venomous,  wears  yet  a  precious 
jewel  in  his  head." 

If  you  have  lived  true  to  the  prompt- 


First  Day 

ings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  continue 
to  do  so,  happiness  will  fill  your  soul. 
If  you  vary  from  it  and  become  con- 
scious that  you  have  fallen  short  of 
what  you  know  is  right,  you  are  going 
to  be  unhappy  even  though  you  have 
the  wealth  of  the  world. 

And  now  a  word  to  the  young: 

In  their  yearning  for  a  good  time, 
young  people  are  often  tempted  to  in- 
dulge in  the  things  which  appeal  only 
to  the  baser  side  of  humanity,  five  of 
the  most  common  of  which  are:  first, 
vulgarity  and  obscenity;  second,  drink- 
ing and  petting;  third,  unchastity; 
fourth,  disloyalty;  and,  fifth,  irreverence. 

Vulgarity  is  often  the  first  step  down 
the  road  to  indulgence.  To  be  vulgar  is 
to  give  offense  to  good  taste  or  re- 
fined feelings. 

It  is  only  a  step  from  vulgarity  to 
obscenity.  It  is  right,  indeed  essential, 
to  the  happiness  of  our  young  people 
that  they  meet  in  social  parties,  but  it 
is  an  indication  of  low  morals  when 
for  entertainment  they  must  resort  to 
physical  stimulation  and  debasement. 
Drinking  and  petting  parties  form  an 
environment  in  which  the  moral  sense 
becomes  dulled,  and  unbridled  passion 
holds  sway.  It  then  becomes  easy  to 
take  the  final  step  downward  in 
moral  disgrace. 

When,  instead  of  high  moral  princi- 
ples, a  life  of  immoral  indulgence  is 
chosen,  and  man  or  woman  gets  far 
down  in  the  scale  of  degeneracy,  dis- 
loyalty is  an  inevitable  part  of  his  or 
her  nature.  Lovalty  to  parents  becomes 
quenched;  obedience  to  their  teachings 
and  ideals  abandoned;  loyalty  to  wife 
and  children  smothered  in  base  gratifi- 
cation; loyalty  to  Church  impossible, 
and  often  supplanted  by  sneers  at 
its  teachings. 

Spirituality  is  the  consciousness  of  vic- 
tory over  self  and  of  communion  with 
the  Infinite.  Spirituality  impels  one  to 
conquer  difficulties  and  acquire  more 
and  more  strength.  To  feel  one's 
faculties  unfolding  and  truth  expanding 
the  soul  is  one  of  life's  sublimest  experi- 
ences. Being  true  to  self  and  being 
loyal  to  high  ideals  develops  spirituality. 
The  real  test  of  any  religion  is  the  kind 
of  man  it  makes.  Being  "honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,   and  in 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


9 


doing  good  to  all  men"  are  virtues 
which  contribute  to  the  highest  acquisi- 
tion of  the  soul.  It  is  the  "divine  in 
man,  the  supreme,  crowning  gift  that 
makes  him  king  of  all  created  things, 
the  one  final  quality  that  makes  him 
tower  above  all  other  animals." 

Let  us  ever  keep  in  mind  that  life  is 
largely  what  we  make  it,  and  that  the 
Savior  of  men  has  marked  clearly  and 
plainly  just  how  joy  and  peace  may 
be  obtained.  It  is  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  adherence  thereto.  Do  your 
duty  no  matter  how  humble  and  re- 
solve even  in  the  face  of  difficulties 
and  discouragements  to  be: 

"Like  the  man  who  faces  what  he  must 
With  step  triumphant  and  a  heart  of 
cheer; 

Who  fights  the  daily  battle  without 
fear; 

Sees  his  hopes  fail,  yet  keeps  unfaltering 
trust 

That  God  is  God." 

Years  ago  I  learned  that — 

"The  world  wants  men — true  men 
Who  cannot  be  bought  or  sold; 
Men  who  will  scorn  to  violate  truth — 
genuine  gold." 


That  is  the  kind  of  men  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  our  stakes,  wards,  quo- 
rums, and  organizations.  That  is  a 
responsibility  they  carry.  God  help 
them  in  discharging  their  duty  faithfully 
and  responding  to  our  Father  in  heaven 
who  says,  ".  .  .  this  is  my  glory — to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eter- 
nal life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

God  help  us  as  leaders  in  the  restored 
Church,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  will  now 
present  for  your  acceptance  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  and  officers  of  the 
Church  and  General  Auxiliary  Asso- 
ciations. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  now  our 
privilege  as  members  of  the  Church  to 
vote  on  the  General  Authorities,  General 
Officers  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers 
of  the  Church.  This  is  not  a  mere 
formality,  but  is  a  right  given  by 
revelation. 

It  is  now  proposed  that  we  sustain 
the  following: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Boyd  K.  Packer 

William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  Bernard  Park  Brockbank 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and 
Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


11 


Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Chancellor  of  the  Church  School  System 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


Primary  Association 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


Advisers 


Harold  B.  Lee 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Alma  Sonne 


12 

Friday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


EIRay  L.  Christiansen 
John  Longden 
Henry  D.  Taylor 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


John  H.  Vandenberg 
Robert  L.  Simpson 
Victor  L.  Brown 


General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 


Paul  C.  Child 
Mark  B.  Garff 
William  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 
LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 


Walter  Stover 
A.  Lewis  Elggrcn 
Donald  Ellsworth 
Casper  H.  Parker 
Alfred  B.  Smith 


Tabernacle  Choir 


Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Theodore  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 


Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 
Frank  W.  Asper 
Roy  M.  Darley 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 


President  McKay,  as  far  as  I  can  ob- 
serve, the  voting  is  entirely  unanimous 
in  the  affirmative. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
your  unanimous  sustaining  of  the  Au- 
thorities. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 


join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  A  Prophet,"  after  which  we 
shall  hear  from  President  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency. 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  and  the 
congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  beloved  President  David  O.  McKay, 
President  Brown,  and  brothers  and 
sisters:  It  is  with  great  difficulty  and  a 
feeling  of  deep  humility  that  I  stand 
before  you  in  response  to  this  high 
honor  and  heavy  responsibility  that  has 
been  bestowed  upon  me,  one  of  thy 
most  humble  servants,  the  weakest  and 
least  prepared  of  all.  I  humbly  pray 
that  the  spirit  and  blessings  of  the  Lord 


will  attend  me  as  I  stand  before  you 
this  morning. 

I  am  sure  that  my  call  to  this  position 
must  have  been  a  shock  to  many  of  you, 
as  it  is  to  me.  It  is  certainly  another 
evidence  of  the  fact  that  God  moves  in  a 
mys'erious  way,  his  wonders  to  perform. 

Only  because  these,  my  colleagues, 
have  such  a  strong  testimony  that  we 
are  led  by  a  prophet  of  God  can  they 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


13 


sustain  me  in  this  position.  I  humbly 
'pray  that  as  they  sustain  the  prophet 
in  his  decision  that  they,  knowing  my 
weakness,  will  continue  to  pray  for  me 
and  give  of  their  strength  which  I  need 
so  badly,  and  with  that  assurance,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  I  can  humbly  say  as 
did  Nephi  of  old: 

"I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which 
the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know 
that  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments 
unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall 
prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
mandeth  them."  (1  Nephi  3:7.) 

I  humbly  thank  you  all  for  your  con- 
fidence and  sustaining  vote,  and  pledge 
to  all  of  you  and  to  these,  my  brethren 
and  colleagues,  whom  I  love  so  much, 
and  whom  I  sustain  with  all  my  heart, 
and  to  you,  President  McKay,  as  the 
Lord's  representative,  and  to  God  him- 
self, everything  with  which  the  Lord 
has  blesjed  me  for  the  building  up  of 
the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  thank  God  for  my  loyal  and  devoted 
wife  and  family  whom  I  love  so  much 
and  who  have  always  sustained  and 
strengthened  me  with  their  inspira- 
tion, loyalty,  faith,  and  prayers  and 
who  will  continue  to  sustain  me  in  this 
new  calling. 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
wonderful  privilege  that  I  have  had  of 
associating  with  these  fine  men,  for  the 
influence  they  have  had  in  my  life  and 
for  the  encouragement  and  strength  they 
have  given  me.  And  I  thank  God  for  the 
signal  privilege  I  have  had  of  associating 
so  closely  with,  and  feeling  the  great 
spirit  and  influence  of,  our  beloved  Pres- 
ident David  O.  McKay.  All  that  has 
been  written  and  said  about  him,  as 
he  has  just  passed  his  ninetieth  birthday, 
does  not  and  cannot  portray  the  great- 
ness of  him  who  has  been  chosen  as  a 
prophet  of  God  and  who  is  now  Presi- 
dent of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints — the  kingdom  of  God 
here  upon  the  earth.  It  is  impossible  to 
appreciate  or  estimate  the  tremendous 
influence  for  good  that  he  has  exerted 
upon  all  mankind.  The  closer  that  one 
is  to  him,  and  the  more  he  is  permitted 
to  associate  with  him,  the  stronger  one's 


testimony  becomes  that  he  is  a  prophet 
of  God. 

It  is  with  sadness  that  I  mention  the 
absence  of  our  beloved  friend  and  col- 
league, President  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
whom  we  all  miss  so  much,  and  whose 
passing  makes  these  changes  necessary. 
His  family,  his  friends,  his  Church,  his 
community,  and  his  country  have  suf- 
fered a  tremendous  loss.  He  was  a  lov- 
ing husband  and  father,  a  true  and 
loyal  friend,  a  thoughtful  neighbor,  a 
devoted  member  and  capable  leader  of 
the  Church.  He  was  always  working 
for  the  good  of  his  country  and  the 
betterment  of  mankind.  I  wish  to  ex- 
press my  love  and  sympathy  to  Sister 
Moyle  and  her  family  and  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  accompany 
and  strengthen  them  and  give  them 
courage  to  carry  on. 

At  this  time,  I  should  like  to  welcome 
Brother  Thomas  Monson,  whom  I  sus- 
tain with  all  my  heart. 

I  have  not  words  to  express  my  deep 
love  for  the  Lord  and  my  gratitude  to 
him  for  his  many  blessings  unto  me  and 
mine,  and  I  sincerely  pray  for  his  con- 
tinued guidance  and  strength,  as  I  try 
to  serve  him.  And  I  wish  to  pledge  with 
you  again  that  my  life  and  all  that  I 
have  will  be  completely  devoted  to  the 
service  of  my  Maker  and  to  my  fellow 
men,  always  with  a  prayer  in  my  heart 
that  he  will  give  me  wisdom  and  knowl- 
edge, courage  and  strength  and  inspira- 
tion and  determination  and  ability  to 
keep  his  commandments  and  serve  in  a 
way  that  will  be  acceptable  to  him. 

Again  I  appeal  to  each  and  every  one 
of  you  to  exercise  your  faith  and  prayers 
in  my  behalf  that  I  might  lose  myself 
in  his  service  and  go  forward  with  an 
eye  single  to  his  glory. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  that  I 
know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ  who  gave  h's  life  for  you  and  me; 
that  this  is  his  Church  and  kingdom; 
that  we  have  at  the  head  of  our  Church 
this  day  a  prophet  of  God  who  is  led 
by  him,  and  through  whom  we  are  led 
in  the  paths  of  truth  and  righteousness. 

May  we  follow  him,  knowing  that  we 
will  be  led  into  immortality  and  eternal 
life,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  4  First  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  Council  of  the  Twelve.    He  will  now 

please  come  forward.    Elder  Monson 
Our   next  speaker   will    be   Elder    will  be  followed  by  Elder  Ezra  Taft 
Thomas  Spencer  Monson,  whom  you     Benson,  who  will  be  our  concluding 
have  just  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  speaker. 

ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  President  Brown, 
President  Tanner,  my  brethren,  and 
brothers  and  sisters,  from  the  depths  of 
humility,  and  with  an  overwhelming 
sense  of  inadequacy,  I  stand  before  you 
and  pray  earnestly  for  your  prayers  in 
my  behalf. 

All  of  us  are  saddened  by  the  loss  of 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle.  I  also  miss 
the  presence  of  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  and  President  Stephen  L 
Richards  who  served  in  the  First 
Presidency. 

Some  years  ago  I  stood  at  a  pulpit 
and  noticed  a  little  sign  that  only  the 
speaker  could  see,  and  the  words  on  that 
sign  were  these:  "Who  stands  at  this 
pulpit,  let  him  be  humble."  How  I 
pray  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I 
might  never  forget  the  lesson  I  learned 
that  day! 

I  feel  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father 
for  his  many  blessings  to  me.  I  am 
grateful  to  have  been  born  of  goodly 
parents,  whose  parents  were  gathered 
out  of  the  lands  of  Sweden  and  Scotland 
and  England  by  humble  missionaries, 
who  through  the  bearing  of  their  testi- 
monies touched  the  spirits  of  these 
wonderful  people. 

I  am  so  grateful  for  my  teachers  and 
leaders  in  my  boyhood  and  young  man- 
hood in  a  humble,  pioneer  ward  in  a 
humble,  pioneer  stake.  I  am  grateful 
for  my  sweet  companion  and  for  the 
influence  for  good  which  she  has  had 
upon  my  life,  and  to  her  dear  mother 
who  had  the  courage  in  far-off  Sweden 
to  accept  the  gospel  and  to  come  to  this 
country.  I  am  so  happy  that  the  Lord 
has  blessed  us  with  three  fine  children, 
our  youngest  born  to  us  in  the  mission 
field  in  Canada.  I  am  grateful  for 
these  blessings.  I  am  grateful  for  my 
friends  and  for  O.  Preston  Robinson 


and  my  associates  at  the  Deseret  News 
with  whom  I  have  so  closely  worked 
these  past  fifteen  years. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  my  brothers 
and  sisters.  There  is  no  question  in 
my  mind.  I  know  that  this  is  his  work, 
and  I  know  that  the  sweetest  experience 
in  all  this  life  is  to  feel  his  promptings 
as  he  directs  us  in  the  furtherance  of 
his  work.  I  have  felt  these  promptings 
as  a  young  bishop,  guided  to  the  homes 
where  there  was  spiritual,  or  perhaps 
temporal,  want.  I  felt  it  again  in  the 
mission  field  as  I  worked  with  your  sons 
and  your  daughters — the  missionaries  of 
this  great  Church  who  are  a  living  wit- 
ness and  testimony  to  the  world  that 
this  work  is  divine  and  that  we  are 
led  by  a  prophet. 

I  think  of  a  little  sister,  a  French- 
Canadian  sister,  whose  life  was  changed 
by  the  missionaries  as  her  spirit  was 
touched  as  she  said  good-bye  to  me  and 
my  wife  two  years  ago  in  Quebec.  She 
said,  "President  Monson,  I  may  never 
see  the  prophet.  I  may  never  hear  the 
prophet.  But  President,  far  better,  now 
that  I  am  a  member  of  this  Church, 
I  can  obey  the  prophet." 

My  sincere  prayer  today,  President 
McKay,  is  that  I  might  always  obey 
you  and  these,  my  brethren.  I  pledge 
my  life,  all  that  I  may  have.  I  will 
strive  to  the  utmost  of  my  ability  to 
be  what  you  would  want  me  to  be.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  words  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior,  when  he  said: 

"I  stand  at  the  door  and  knock.  If 
any  man  hear  my  voice  and  open  the 
door,  I  will  come  in  to  him.  .  .  ." 
(Rev.  3:20.) 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  my  life  might  merit  this 
promise  from  our  Savior.  In  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


15 


President  David  O.  McKay:  Twelve.     Take    your   place,  Brother 

Monson. 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Ezra 
Elder  Thomas  Spencer  Monson,  the  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the 
newest  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Humbly  and  gratefully  I  approach  you 
today.  Humble  in  the  awesome  task 
of  speaking  to  you — grateful  for  the 
gospel  and  a  prophet  at  our  head.  I 
concur  in  this  great  address  on  man 
and  free  agency  given  by  the  Lord's 
mouthpiece.  President  McKay  will  go 
down  in  eternity  as  one  of  the  great 
champions  of  free  men. 

Years  ago  my  great-grandfather, 
while  an  investigator,  attended  a  Mor- 
mon meeting  during  which  a  member 
had  a  quarrel  over  the  Sacrament  table 
with  the  branch  president.  When  the 
service  was  over,  Mrs.  Benson  turned  to 
Ezra  T.  and  asked  him  what  he  thought 
of  the  Mormons  now.  I'll  always  be 
grateful  for  his  answer.  He  said  he 
thought  the  actions  of  its  members  in 
no  way  altered  the  truth  of  Mormon- 
ism.  That  conviction  saved  him  from 
many  a  tragedy.  Before  joining  the 
Church,  Grandfather  was  moved  by  a 
marvelous  prayer  of  Apostle  John 
E.  Page. 

But  later  the  young  convert  was 
greatly  shocked  by  the  same  man  whose 
actions  reflected  his  gradual  apostasy. 

Ironically,  when  Elder  Page  even- 
tually was  excommunicated,  Brigham 
Young  selected  the  young  convert  to 
fill  Elder  Page's  place  in  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve. 

Six  of  the  original  Twelve  Apostles 
selected  by  Joseph  Smith  were  excom- 
municated. The  Three  Witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon  left  the  Church. 
Three  of  Joseph  Smith's  Counselors  fell 
— one  even  helped  plot  his  death. 

A  natural  question  that  might  arise 
would  be,  that  if  the  Lord  knew  in  ad- 
vance that  these  men  would  fall,  as  he 
undoubtedly  did,  why  did  he  have  his 
Prophet  call  them  to  such  high  office? 
The  answer  is;  to  fill  the  Lord's  pur- 
poses.   For  even  the  Master  followed 


the  will  of  the  Father  by  selecting 
Judas.  President  George  Q.  Cannon 
suggests  an  explanation,  too,  when  he 
states: 

"Perhaps  it  is  His  own  design  that 
faults  and  weaknesses  should  appear  in 
high  places  in  order  that  His  Saints 
may  learn  to  trust  in  Him  and  not  in 
any  man  or  men."  (Millennial  Star 
53:658-659.    February  15,  1891.) 

And  this  would  parallel  Lehi's  warn- 
ing; put  not  your  ".  .  .  trust  in  the  arm 
of  flesh  "  (2  Nephi  4:34.) 

"The  Church,"  says  President  McKay, 
"is  little,  if  at  all,  injured  by  persecu- 
tion and  calumnies  from  ignorant,  mis- 
informed, or  malicious  enemies."  (The 
Instructor.  February  1956,  p.  33.) 

It  is  from  within  the  Church  that  the 
greatest  hindrance  comes.  And  so,  it 
seems,  it  has  been.  Now  the  question 
arises,  will  we  stick  with  the  kingdom 
and  can  we  avoid  being  deceived?  Cer- 
tainly this  is  an  important  question, 
for  the  Lord  has  said  that  in  the  last 
days  the  devil  will  "rage  in  the  hearts 
of  .  .  .  men,"  (2  Nephi  28:20)  and  if  it 
were,  possible  he  shall  "deceive  the 
very  elect."  (See  Joseph  Smith  1:5-37.) 

"The  adversary,"  said  Brigham  Young, 
"presents  his  principles  and  arguments 
in  the  most  approved  style,  and  in  the 
most  winning  tone,  attended  with  the 
most  graceful  attitudes;  and  he  is  very 
careful  to  ingratiate  himself  into  the 
favour  of  the  powerful  and  influential 
of  mankind,  uniting  himself  with  popu- 
lar parties,  floating  into  offices  of  trust 
and  emolument  by  pandering  to  popu- 
lar feeling,  though  it  should  seriously 
wrong  and  oppress  the  innocent.  Such 
characters  put  on.  the  manners  of  an 
angel,  appearing  as  nigh  like  angels  of 
light  as  they  possibly  can,  to  deceive 
the  innocent  and  the  unwary.  The  good 
which  they  do,  they  do  it  to  bring  to 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

pass  an  evil  purpose  upon  the  good 
and  honest  followers  of  Jesus  Christ." 
(JD  11,  238-239.) 

Those  of  us  who  think  ".  .  .  all  is 
well  in  Zion  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi  28:21)  in 
spite  of  Book  of  Mormon  warning 
might  ponder  the  words  of  Heber  C. 
Kimball  when  he  said,  "Yes,  we  think 
we  are  secure  here  in  the  chambers  of 
these  everlasting  hills  .  .  .  but  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  my  brethren,  the  time  is 
coming  when  we  will  be  mixed  up  in 
these  now  peaceful  valleys  to  that  ex- 
tent that  it  will  be  difficult  to  tell  the 
face  of  a  Saint  from  the  face  of  an 
enemy  against  the  people  of  God.  Then 
is  the  time  to  look  out  for  the  great 
sieve,  for  there  will  be  a  great  sifting 
time,  and  many  will  fall.  For  I  say 
unto  you  there  is  a  test,  a  Test,  a  TEST 
coming."  (Heber  C.  Kimball,  1856. 
Quoted  by  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Con- 
ference Report,  October  1930,  pp.  59-60.) 

One  of  the  greatest  discourses  that  I 
have  ever  heard  or  read  on  how  to 
avoid  being  deceived  was  given  from 
this  pulpit  during  the  priesthood  ses- 
sion of  the  October,  1960  semiannual 
conference  by  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney. 
(Ibid.,  October  1960,  73-75.)  I  com- 
mend it  to  you  for  your  close  study 
and  wish  that  there  were  time  to  re- 
read it.  During  the  talk  Elder  Romney 
stated  that  there  was  no  guarantee  that 
the  devil  will  not  deceive  a  lot  of  men 
who  hold  the  priesthood.  Then,  after 
referring  to  a  talk  on  free  agency  by 
President  McKay,  Elder  Romney  states, 
".  .  .  Free  agency  is  the  principle  against 
which  Satan  waged  his  war  in  heaven. 
It  is  still  the  front  on  which  he  makes 
his  most  furious,  devious,  and  persistent 
attacks.  That  this  would  be  the  case 
was  foreshadowed  by  the  Lord.  .  .  ." 

And  then  after  quoting  the  scripture 
from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  regarding 
the  war  in  heaven  over  free  agency 
(Moses  4:1-4)  Elder  Romney  continues: 

"You  see,  at  the  time  he  was  cast 
out  of  heaven,  his  objective  was  (and 
still  is)  'to  deceive  and  to  blind  men, 
and  to  lead  them  captive  at  his  will.' 
This  he  effectively  does  to  as  many  as 
will  not  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  God. 
His  main  attack  is  still  on  free  agency. 
When  he  can  get  men  to  yield  their 


First  Day 

agency,  he  has  them  well  on  the  way 
to  captivity. 

"We  who  hold  the  priesthood  must 
beware  concerning  ourselves,  that  we 
do  not  fall  into  the  traps  he  lays  to 
rob  us  of  our  freedom.  We  must  be 
careful  that  we  are  not  led  to  accept 
or  support  in  any  way  any  organization, 
cause  or  measure  which,  in  its  remotest 
effect,  would  jeopardize  free  agency, 
whether  it  be  in  politics,  government, 
religion,  employment,  education,  or  any 
other  field.  It  is  not  enough  for  us  to 
be  sincere  in  what  we  support.  We 
must  be  right!" 

Elder  Romney  then  outlined  some 
tests  to  distinguish  the  true  from  the 
counterfeit.  Now  this  is  crucial  for  us 
to  know,  for  as  President  [John]  Taylor 
said,  "Besides  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel,  we  have  another  mission,  name- 
ly, the  perpetuation  of  the  free  agency 
of  man  and  the  maintenance  of  liberty, 
freedom,  and  the  rights  of  man." 
(JD  23,  63.) 

It  was  the  struggle  over  free  agency 
that  divided  us  before  we  came  here; 
it  may  well  be  the  struggle  over  the 
same  principle  which  will  deceive  and 
divide  us  again. 

May  I  suggest  three  short  tests  to 
avoid  being  deceived,  both  pertaining 
to  this  freedom  struggle  and  all  other 
matters. 

1.  What  do  the  standard  works  have 
to  say  about  it?  "To  the  law  and  to 
the  testimony:  if  they  speak  not  accord- 
ing to  this  word,  it  is  because  there  is 
no  light  in  them,"  said  Isaiah.  (Isa. 
8:20.)  This  is  one  of  the  great  truths 
of  Isaiah  so  important  that  it  was  in- 
cluded in  the  Book  of  Mormon  scrip- 
tures. There  it  reads:  "To  the  law  and 
to  the  testimony;  and  if  they  speak  not 
according  to  this  word,  it  is  because 
there  is  no  light  in  them."  (2  Nephi 
18:20.)  And  Hosea  said,  "My  people  are 
destroyed  for  lack  of  knowledge:  .  .  ." 
(Hos.  4:6.) 

We  must  diligently  study  the  scrip- 
tures. Of  special  importance  to  us  are 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  Joseph  Smith  said, 
".  .  .  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  the 
most  correct  of  any  book  on  earth,  and 
the  keystone  of  our  religion,  and  a  man 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


17 


would  get  nearer  to  God  by  abiding  by 
its  precepts,  than  by  any  other  book." 
(DHC  4,  461.) 

The  Book  of  Mormon,  Brigham  Young 
said,  was  written  on  the  tablets  of  his 
heart  and  no  doubt  helped  save  him 
from  being  deceived.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  has  a  lot  to  say  about  America, 
freedom,  and  secret  combinations. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  im- 
portant because  it  contains  the  revela- 
tions which  helped  lay  the  foundation 
of  this  great  latter-day  work.  It  speaks 
of  many  things.  Section  134,  verse  2, 
states  that  government  should  hold  in- 
violate the  rights  and  control  of 
property.  This  makes  important  read- 
ing in  a  day  when  government  controls 
are  increasing  and  people  are  losing  the 
right  to  control  their  own  property. 

2.  The  second  guide  is:  what  do  the 
latter-day  Presidents  of  the  Church  have 
to  say  on  the  subject — particularly  the 
living  President?  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  related  an  instance  in  church 
history  when  Brigham  Young  was  ad- 
dressing a  congregation  in  the  presence 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"Brother  Brigham  took  the  stand,  and 
he  took  the  Bible  and  laid  it  down;  he 
took  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  laid  it 
down:  and  he  took  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  laid  it  down  before 
him,  and  he  said,  'There  is  the  written 
word  of  God  to  us,  concerning  the  work 
of  God  from  the  beginning  of  the  world, 
almost,  to  our  day.'  'And  now,'  said  he, 
'when  compared  with  the  living  oracles, 
those  books  are  nothing  to  me;  those 
books  do  not  convey  the  word  of  God 
direct  to  us  now,  as  do  the  words  of  a 
Prophet  or  a  man  bearing  the  Holy 
Priesthood  in  our  day  and  generation.  I 
would  rather  have  the  living  oracles 
than  all  the  writing  in  the  books.'  That 
was  the  course  he  pursued.  When  he 
was  through,  Brother  Joseph  said  to  the 
congregation:  'Brother  Brigham  has 
told  you  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  he 
has  told  you  the  truth'.  .  .  ."  (Confer- 
ence Report,  October  1897,  pp.  18-19.) 

There  is  only  one  man  on  the  earth 
today  who  speaks  for  the  Church.  (See 
D&C  132:7,  21:4.)  That  man  is  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay.  Because  he  gives 
the  word  of  the  Lord  for  us  today,  his 


words  have  an  even  more  immediate 
importance  than  those  of  the  dead 
prophets.  When  speaking  under  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  his  words 
are  scripture.  (See  D&C  68:4.)  I  com- 
mend for  your  reading  the  masterful 
discourse  of  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  in  the  Church  News  of  July  31, 
1954,  entitled:  "When  Are  Church 
Leader's  Words  Entitled  to  Claim  of 
Scripture?" 

The  President  can  speak  on  any  sub- 
ject he  feels  is  needful  for  the  Saints.  As 
Brigham  Young  has  stated:  "I  defy  any 
man  on  earth  to  point  out  the  path 
a  prophet  of  God  should  walk  in,  or 
point  out  his  duty,  and  just  how  far 
he  must  go,  in  dictating  temporal  or 
spiritual  things.  Temporal  and  spiritual 
things  are  inseparably  connected,  and 
ever  will  be."  (JD  10,  364.)  Other 
officers  in  the  kingdom  have  fallen  but 
never  the  Presidents.  Keep  your  eye 
on  the  captain  is  still  good  counsel.  The 
words  of  a  living  prophet  must,  and 
ever  will  take  precedence. 

President  McKay  has  said  a  lot  about 
our  tragic  trends  towards  socialism  and 
communism  and  the  responsibilities 
liberty-loving  people  have  in  defending 
and  preserving  our  Constitution.  (See 
Conference  Report,  April  1963,  pp. 
112-113.)  Have  we  read  these  words 
from  God's  mouthpiece  and  pondered 
on  them? 

3.  The  third  and  final  test  is  the 
Holy  Ghost — the  test  of  the  Spirit.  By 
that  Spirit  we  ".  .  .  may  know  the  truth 
of  all  things."  (Moroni  10:5.)  This  test 
can  only  be  fully  effective  if  one's  chan- 
nels of  communication  with  God  are 
clean  and  virtuous  and  uncluttered  with 
sin.  Said  Brigham  Young: 

"You  may  know  whether  you  are  led 
right  or  wrong,  as  well  as  you  know  the 
way  home;  for  every  principle  God  has 
revealed  carries  its  own  convictions  of 
its  truth  to  the  human  mind,  .  .  . 

"What  a  pity  it  would  be  if  we  were 
led  by  one  man  to  utter  destruction! 
Are  you  afraid  of  this?  I  am  more 
afraid  that  this  people  have  so  much 
confidence  in  their  leaders  that  they 
will  not  inquire  of  themselves  of  God 
whether  they  are  led  by  Him.  I  am 
fearful  they  settle  down  in  a  state  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


18 

Friday,  October  4 

blind  self-security,  trusting  their  eternal 
destiny  in  the  hands  of  their  leaders 
with  a  reckless  confidence  that  in  itself 
would  thwart  the  purposes  of  God  in 
their  salvation,  and  weaken  that  influ- 
ence they  could  give  to  their  leaders, 
did  they  know  for  themselves,  by  the 
revelations  of  Jesus,  that  they  are  led 
in  the  right  way.  Let  every  man  and 
woman  know,  by  the  whispering  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  to  themselves,  whether 
their  leaders  are  walking  in  the  path 
that  the  Lord  dictates,  or  not.  This  has 
been  my  exhortation  continually." 
(JD  9,  149-150.) 

Elder  Heber  C.  Kimball  stated:  "The 
time  will  come  when  no  man  or  woman 
will  be  able  to  endure  on  borrowed 
light."  (Orson  F.  Whitney,  Life  of  Heber 
C.  Kimball,  1888  edition  461.) 

How  then  can  we  know  if  a  man  is 
speaking  by  the  spirit?  The  Bible,  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants give  us  the  key.  (See  D&C  50:17- 
23;  100:5-8;  2  Nephi  33:1;  1  Cor.  2:10- 
11.)  President  Clark  summarized  them 
well  when  he  said: 

"We  can  tell  when  the  speakers  are 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  only 
when  we,  ourselves,  are  moved  upon 
by  the  Holy  Ghost.  In  a  way,  this 
completely  shifts  the  responsibility  from 
them  to  us  to  determine  when  they  so 
speak  .  .  .  the  Church  will  know  by 
the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  the 
body  of  the  members,  whether  the 
brethren  in  voicing  their  views  are 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  in 
due  time  that  knowledge  will  be 
made  manifest."  (Church  News,  July 
31,  1954.) 

Will  this  Spirit  be  needed  to  check 
actions  in  other  situations?  Yes,  and 
it  could  be  used  as  a  guide  and  a  pro- 
tector for  the  faithful  in  a  situation 
described  by  Elder  Lee  at  the  last  gen- 
eral priesthood  session  of  the  Church 
when  he  said: 

"In  the  history  of  the  Church  there 
have  been  times  or  instances  where 
Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and 
others  in  high  station  have  sought  to 
overturn  the  decision  or  to  persuade  the 
President  contrary  to  his  inspired  judg- 
ment, and  always,  if  you  will  read 
carefully  the  history  of  the  Church,  such 


First  Day 

oppositions  brought  not  only  disastrous 
results  to  those  who  resisted  the  decision 
of  the  President,  but  almost  always 
such  temporary  persuasions  were  called 
back  for  reconsideration,  or  a  reversal 
of  hasty  action  not  in  accordance  with 
the  feelings,  the  inspired  feelings,  of  the 
President  of  the  Church.  And  that,  I 
submit,  is  one  of  the  fundamental  things 
that  we  must  never  lose  sight  of  in  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(Conference  Report,  April,  1963,  p.  81.) 

These  then,  are  the  three  tests:  The 
standard  works;  the  inspired  words  of 
the  Presidents  of  the  Church,  particu- 
larly the  living  Presidents;  and  the 
promptings  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  in  this  great 
struggle  for  free  agency  just  think  what 
a  power  for  good  we  could  be  in  this 
world  if  we  were  united.  Remember 
how  President  Clark  used  to  reiterate 
in  the  general  priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  that  there  was  not  a  right- 
eous thing  in  this  world  that  we  couldn't 
accomplish  if  we  were  just  united. 

And  President  McKay  has  reiterated 
it  again  and  again  when  he's  stated: 
"Next  to  being  one  in  worshiping  God, 
there  is  nothing  in  this  world  upon 
which  this  Church  should  be  more 
united  than  in  upholding  and  defend- 
ing the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States! 

"May  the  appeal  of  our  Lord  in  His 
intercessory  prayer  for  unity  be  realized 
in  our  homes,  our  wards,  our  stakes, 
and  in  our  support  of  the  basic  prin- 
ciples of  our  Republic,"  said  President 
McKay.  (The  Instructor,  February  1956. 
p.  34.) 

To  that  I  say  Amen  and  Amen. 

President  McKay  speaks  of  a  unity  on 
principles.    President  Clark  said: 

"God  provided  that  in  this  land  of 
liberty,  our  political  allegiance  shall 
run  not  to  individuals,  that  is,  to  gov- 
ernment officials,  no  matter  how  great 
or  how  small  they  may  be.  Under  His 
plan  our  allegiance  and  the  only  al- 
legiance we  owe  as  citizens  or  denizens 
of  the  United  States,  runs  to  our  in- 
spired Constitution  which  God  Himself 
set  up.  So  runs  the  oath  of  office  of 
those  who  participate  in  government. 
A  certain  loyalty  we  do  owe  to  the 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


19 


office  which  a  man  holds,  but  even 
here  we  owe,  just  by  reason  of  our 
citizenship,  no  loyalty  to  the  man  him- 
self. In  other  countries  it  is  to  the 
individual  that  allegiance  runs.  This 
principle  of  allegiance  to  the  Constitu- 
tion is  basic  to  our  freedom.  It  is  one 
of  the  great  principles  that  distinguishes 
this  'land  of  liberty'  from  other 
countries. 

"Thus  God  added  to  His  priceless 
blessings  to  us. 

"I  wish  to  say  with  all  the  earnest- 
ness I  possess  that  when  you  youth  and 
maidens  see  any  curtailment  of  these 
liberties  I  have  named,  when  you  see 
government  invading  any  of  these  realms 
of  freedom  which  we  have  under  our 
Constitution,  you  will  know  that  they 
are  putting  shackles  on  your  liberty,  and 
that  tyranny  is  creeping  upon  you,  no 
matter  who  curtails  these  liberties  or 
who  invades  these  realms,  and  no  mat- 
ter what  the  reason  and  excuse  there- 
fore may  be."  (The  Improvement  Era, 
43,  [July  1940]  444.) 

We  all  should  know  by  now  what 
President  McKay  has  said  about  liberty- 
loving  peoples'  greatest  responsibility. 
We've  heard  him  tell  of  our  drift  to- 
ward socialism  and  communism.  We 
know  of  his  feelings  regarding  recent 
tragic  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court. 
We  know  the  Church's  position  sup- 
porting right  to  work  laws  and  the 
Church's  opposition  to  programs  of 
federal  aid  to  education.  These  and 
many  more  things  has  President  McKay 
told  us  that  involve  this  great  struggle 
against  state  slavery  and  the  anti-Christ. 
Now,  inasmuch  as  all  these  warnings 
have  come  through  the  only  mouth- 
piece of  the  Lord  on  the  earth  today 
there  is  one  major  question  we  should 
ask  ourselves.  Assuming  we  are  living 
a  life  so  we  can  know,  then  what  does 
the  Holy  Spirit  have  to  say  about  it? 

We  are  under  obligation  to  answer  this 


question.   God  will  hold  us  responsible. 

Let  us  not  be  deceived  in  the  sifting 
days  ahead.  Let  us  rally  together  on 
principle  behind  the  prophet  as  guided 
by  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit. 

We  should  continue  to  speak  out  for 
freedom  and  against  socialism  and  com- 
munism as  President  McKay  has  con- 
sistently admonished  us.  We  should 
continue  to  come  to  the  aid  of  patriots, 
programs  and  organizations  which  are 
trying  to  save  our  Constitution  through 
every  legal  and  moral  means  possible. 

God  has  not  left  us  in  darkness  re- 
garding these  matters.  We  have  the 
scriptures  ancient  and  modern.  We 
have  a  living  prophet,  and  we  may 
obtain  the  Spirit. 

Joseph  Smith  did  see  the  Father  and 
the  Son.  The  kingdom  established 
through  the  Prophet's  instrumentality 
will  roll  forth. 

We  can  move  forward  with  it. 

That  we  may  all  do  so  and  be  not 
deceived  is  my  humble  prayer.  In  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Relief  Society  Smg;ng  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "If  Ye  Love  Me, 
Keen  My  Commandments,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madden. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Alex  P.  Anderson,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  South  Mission, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang,  "If  Ye  Love  Me,  Keep  My 
Commandments." 

Elder  Alex  P.  Anderson,  formerly  pres- 
ident of  the  New  Zealand  South  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference     presiding  and  conducting, 
convened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  October       The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
4,  1963,  with  President  David  O.  McKay    from  the  Phoenix-Mesa  (Arizona)  area 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

furnished  the  choral  numbers  for  this 
session. 

Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducted 
the  singing.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at 
the  organ  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  second  general  session  of  the 
133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church. 

Through  the  generous  cooperation  of 
their  owners  and  managers,  a  total  of 
161  television  stations  and  24  radio 
stations  will  carry  to  practically  every 
state  in  the  Union  and  to  many  foreign 
countries  the  proceedings  of  some  ses- 
sions of  this  Conference.  These  stations 
are  located  from  coast  to  coast.  The 
names  of  the  stations  carrying  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  session  were  announced 
to  the  television  and  radio  audience  just 
prior  to  the  opening  of  this  meeting. 
We  appreciate  the  courtesy  of  these 
owners  and  managers  in  broadcasting 
the  progress  of  this  Conference. 

These  services  are  also  being  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  television. 
Those  who  are  standing  in  the  door- 
ways may  possibly  find  seats  in  that 
building.  The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to 
overflowing  and  probably  many  thou- 
sands are  tuned  in  on  their  radios  and 
televisions.  To  all  we  extend  a  hearty 
welcome — to  our  unseen  audience  and 
to  all  who  are  gathered  in  this  great 
Tabernacle. 

We  acknowledge  again  with  appre- 
ciation the  presence  of  our  stake  presi- 
dencies, high  councilmen,  bishoprics, 
temple  presidents,  general  auxiliary  offi- 
cers, patriarchs,  and  others.  We  extend 
also  a  hearty  welcome  and  express 
satisfaction  and  pleasure  in  the  attend- 
ance of  special  guests  and  prominent 
men  in  the  nation  and  state. 

We  have  received  the  following 
telegrams: 

From  the  London  Stake  "Greetings 


First  Day 

and  best  wishes  to  all  at  Conference." 

From  President  A.  Theodore  Tuttle 
in  South  America:  "The  mission  presi- 
dents, members,  and  missionaries  of 
South  America  send  greetings  to  all.  We 
join  in  praying  for  an  inspirational  and 
successful  Conference." 

Again,  we  are  favored  this  afternoon 
by  the  presence  of  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Phoenix- 
Mesa  (Arizona)  area,  with  Sister  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen  conducting  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  render- 
ing, "The  Lord's  Prayer."  The  invoca- 
tion will  be  offered  by  Elder  Victor 
Bowen,  president  of  the  Great  Falls 
Stake. 

The  opening  selection  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  was  "The 
Lord's  Prayer."  (By  Robertson) 

Elder  Victor  Bowen,  president  of  the 
Great  Falls  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Victor  Bowen,  president  of  the 
Great  Falls  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Great  Is 
Jehovah,  The  Lord,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

After  the  singing  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  President  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  will  give  the  opening 
address. 

An  anthem,  "Great  Is  Jehovah,  The 
Lord,"  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  will 
be  our  first  speaker.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 

The  first  time  it  was  my  privilege  to 
speak  to  a  congregation  in  this  building 


it  required  an  effort  to  have  my  voice 
carry  to  all  parts  of  this  Tabernacle  and 
be  heard.   Now  when  we  are  privileged 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


21 


to  speak,  we  are  conscious  of  the  fact 
that  our  voices  may  go  forth  to  various 
parts  of  this  mortal  world.  This  makes 
the  speaker  conscious  of  a  grave  responsi- 
bility which  rests  upon  him  and  the 
need  of  weighing  every  word.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  coming  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  in  this  the  greatest  of  all  dispen- 
sations— the  greatest,  because  it  is  the 
last.  I  am  also  made  aware  of  the  re- 
sponsibility which  rests  upon  us,  the 
elders  of  Israel,  to  proclaim  the  words 
of  eternal  life  as  they  have  been  re- 
vealed from  the  heavens  for  the  bene- 
fit of  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  world. 
We  are  sending  missionaries  to  prac- 
tically every  country  on  the  globe, 
except  perhaps  one  where  the  lives  of 
missionaries  would  be  in  grave  danger 
and  their  message  misunderstood.  This 
obligation  of  declaring  the  words  of 
eternal  life  devolves  upon  us  by  divine 
decree,  given  by  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  November  1831  in  the 
following  words: 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church, 
saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all 
men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  peo- 
ple from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon 
the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not 
be  penetrated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them."  (D&C  1:1-5.) 

It  is  because  of  this  commandment 
which  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Church 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that 
our  missionaries  are  sent  to  all  parts 
of  the  world.  We  are  fulfilling  the 
edict  of  the  Son  of  God.  Moreover,  this 


is  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise  he  made 
to  his  apostles  just  preceding  his  cruci- 
fixion, when  he  declared  to  them: 

"And  again  this  gospel  of  the  King- 
dom shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world, 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and 
then  shall  the  end  come,  or  the  de- 
struction of  the  wicked; 

"And  immediately  after  the  tribula- 
tion of  those  days,  the  sun  shall  be 
darkened,  and  the  moon  shall  not  give 
her  light,  and  the  stars  shall  fall  from 
heaven,  and  the  powers  of  heaven  shall 
be  shaken. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this  genera- 
tion, in  which  these  things  shall  be 
shown  forth,  shall  not  pass  away  until 
all  I  have  told  you  shall  be  fulfilled." 
(Joseph  Smith  1:31-34.) 

The  Lord  has  made  great  promises 
through  his  servants  concerning  these 
times.  To  Jeremiah  the  Lord  said  in 
speaking  of  this  dispensation: 

"Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the 
Lord,  that  I  will  make  a  new  covenant 
with  the  house  of  Israel,  and  with  the 
house  of  Judah: 

"Not  according  to  the  covenant  that  I 
made  with  their  fathers  in  the  day  that 
I  took  them  by  the  hand  to  bring  them 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt;  which  my 
covenant  they  brake,  although  I  was  an 
husband  unto  them  saith  the  Lord: 

"But  this  shall  be  the  covenant  that 
I  will  make  with  the  house  of  Israel; 
After  those  days,  saith  the  Lord,  I  will 
put  my  law  in  their  inward  parts,  and 
write  it  in  their  hearts;  and  will  be 
their  God,  and  they  shall  be  my  people. 

"And  they  shall  teach  no  more  every 
man  his  neighbour,  and  every  man  his 
brother  saying,  Know  the  Lord:  for 
they  shall  all  know  me,  from  the  least 
of  them  unto  the  greatest  of  them,  saith 
the  Lord:  for  I  will  forgive  their  iniquity, 
and  I  will  remember  their  sin  no  more." 
(Jer.  31:31-34.) 

In  order  that  this  prophecy  may  be 
fulfilled,  many  members  of  the  Church 
will  need  to  repent  and  be  more  dili- 
gent in  the  study  of  the  scriptures  and 
in  their  prayers  and  obedience  to  the 
laws  and  commandments  of  the  gospel. 
If  they  fail  to  do  these  things  they  will 
be  cut  off  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord 
in  that  great  day  when  he  shall  descend 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

as  Lord  of  lords  and  King  of  kings  to 
take  his  place  and  sit  on  his  throne  to 
rule  and  reign. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  once  said: 
"The  great  plan  of  salvation  is  a  theme 
which  ought  to  occupy  our  strict  atten- 
tion, and  be  regarded  as  one  of  heaven's 
best  gifts  to  mankind.  No  consideration 
whatever  ought  to  deter  us  from  show- 
ing ourselves  approved  in  the  sight  of 
God,  according  to  His  divine  require- 
ment. Men  not  unfrequently  forget 
that  they  are  dependent  upon  heaven 
for  every  blessing  which  they  are  per- 
mitted to  enjoy,  and  that  for  every  op- 
portunity granted  them  they  are  to  give 
an  account.  You  know,  brethren,  that 
when  the  master  in  the  Savior's  parable 
of  the  stewards  called  his  servants  be- 
fore him  he  gave  them  several  talents 
to  improve  on  while  he  should  tarry 
abroad  for  a  little  season,  and  when 
he  returned  he  called  for  an  accounting. 
So  it  is  now.  Our  Master  is  absent  only 
for  a  little  season,  and  at  the  end  of  it 
he  will  call  each  to  render  an  account; 
and  where  five  talents  were  bestowed, 
ten  will  be  required;  and  he  that  has 
made  no  improvement  will  be  cast  out 
as  an  unprofitable  servant,  while  the 
faithful  will  enjoy  everlasting  honors. 
Therefore,  we  earnestly  implore  the 
grace  of  our  Father  to  rest  upon  you 
through  Jesus  Christ  his  Son  that  you 
may  not  faint  in  the  hour  of  tempta- 
tion, nor  be  overcome  in  the  time  of 
persecution."  (DHC  2,  23-24.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  one  of 
his  discourses  said  the  following: 

". . .  If  God  should  speak  from  heaven, 
he  would  command  you  not  to  steal,  not 
to  commit  adultery,  not  to  covet,  nor 
deceive,  but  be  faithful  over  a  few 
things.  As  far  as  we  degenerate  from 
God,  we  descend  to  the  devil  and  lose 
knowledge,  and  without  knowledge,  we 
cannot  be  saved,  and  while  our  hearts 
are  filled  with  evil,  and  we  are  study- 
ing evil,  there  is  no  room  in  our  hearts 
for  good,  or  studying  good.  Is  not  God 
good?  Then  you  be  good;  if  he  is 
faithful,  then  you  be  faithful.  Add 
to  your  faith  virtue,  to  virtue  knowledge, 
and  seek  for  every  good  thing. 

".  .  .  A  man  is  saved  no  faster  than 


First  Day 

he  gets  knowledge,  for  if  he  does  not 
get  knowledge,  he  will  be  brought  into 
captivity  by  some  evil  power  in  the 
other  world,  as  evil  spirits  will  have 
more  knowledge,  and  consequently  more 
power  than  many  men  who  are  on  the 
earth.  Hence  it  needs  revelation  to 
assist  us,  and  give  us  knowledge  of  the 
things  of  God."  (Ibid.,  4,  588.) 

How  true  this  statement  is.  Today 
we  are  troubled  by  evil-designing  per- 
sons who  are  endeavoring  with  all  their 
power  to  destroy  the  testimonies  of 
members  of  the  Church,  and  many 
members  of  the  Church  are  in  danger 
because  of  lack  of  understanding  and 
because  they  have  not  sought  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Every 
baptized  member  of  the  Church  re- 
ceives the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands.  This,  however, 
will  not  save  them  unless  they  continue 
in  the  spirit  of  light  and  truth.  There- 
fore it  is  a  commandment  from  the 
Lord  that  members  of  the  Church 
should  be  diligent  in  their  activities  and 
study  of  the  fundamental  truths  of  the 
gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  not  continue  to 
strive  with  the  indifferent,  with  the  way- 
ward and  the  rebellious  who  fail  to  live 
within  the  light  of  divine  truth.  It  is 
the  privilege  of  every  baptized  person 
to  have  an  abiding  testimony  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  but  this  testi- 
mony will  grow  dim  and  eventually 
disappear  unless  we  are  constantly  re- 
ceiving spiritual  good  through  study, 
obedience,  and  diligent  seeking  to  know 
and  understand  the  truth. 

May  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  be  our 
constant  companion,  and  may  we  one 
and  all  be  true  to  our  covenants  and 
obligations  devolving  upon  us  through 
our  membership  in  the  Church.  May 
the  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Romney  will  now 
speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  William  J.  Critchlow.  Jr.  , 


23 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  be- 
lieve the  question  most  frequently  put 
to  the  General  Authorities  is,  "Don't 
you  remember  me?"  Some  years  ago  as 
Sister  Romney  and  I  sat  near  President 
and  Sister  McKay  at  an  MIA  Dance 
Festival,  a  beautiful  little  Primary  girl 
worked  her  way  through  to  get  the 
President's  autograph.  "President  Mc- 
Kay," she  said,  "do  you  remember  when 
you  last  saw  me?"  "No,  my  dear,  I 
don't,"  he  said  gently,  "but  it  must 
have  been  a  long  time  ago."  "No,  it 
wasn't,"  she  replied,  "it  was  just  last 
year  in  Scotland." 

Perhaps  the  next  most  frequently 
asked  question  is,  "Do  quick  baptisms 
stay  as  active  in  the  Church  as  when 
more  time  was  taken?"  Because  the 
meaning  of  "active"  is  so  indefinite,  this 
question  is  something  like  Paul's 
trumpet  of  uncertain  sound.  No  firm 
answer  can  be  given.  However,  my 
observation  is  that  the  percentage  of 
activity  among  so-called  "quick  bap- 
tisms" is  about  the  same  as  it  is  among 
those  born  to  church  members  in  the 
stakes. 

From  the  time  of  Father  Adam  until 
today  some  people  have  been  baptized 
almost  immediately  upon  hearing  the 
gospel.  Others  have  investigated  long 
and  studiously.  So  far  as  I  know,  the 
Lord  has  never  fixed  a  time  limit.  The 
only  prerequisite  he  has  prescribed  is 
"conversion." 

It  is  about  conversion  and  the  heal- 
ing which  attends  it  that  I  wish  to 
speak. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  be  with  me  and  that  he  will 
put  his  seal  upon  the  things  that  I 
do  say. 

Webster  says  the  verb,  "convert," 
means  "to  turn  from  one  belief  or 
course  to  another."  That  "conversion" 
is  "a  spiritual  and  moral  change  attend- 
ing a  change  of  belief  with  conviction." 
As  used  in  the  scriptures,  "converted" 
generally  implies  not  merely  mental 
acceptance  of  Jesus  and  his  teachings 
but  also  a  motivating  faith  in  him  and 
in  his  gospel — a  faith  which  works  a 


transformation,  an  actual  change  in 
one's  understanding  of  life's  meaning 
and  in  his  allegiance  to  God — in  inter- 
est, in  thought,  and  in  conduct.  While 
conversion  may  be  accomplished  in 
stages,  one  is  not  really  converted  in  the 
full  sense  of  the  term  unless  and  until 
he  is  at  heart  a  new  person.  "Born 
again"  is  the  scriptural  term. 

In  one  who  is  wholly  converted,  de- 
sire for  things  inimical  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  actually  died,  and 
substituted  therefor  is  a  love  of  God 
with  a  fixed  and  controlling  determina- 
tion to  keep  his  commandments.  Paul 
told  the  Romans  that  such  a  one  would 
walk  in  newness  of  life.  "Know  ye 
not,"  he  said,  "that  so  many  of  us  as 
were  baptized  into  Jesus  Christ  were 
baptized  into  his  death? 

"Therefore  we  are  buried  with  him  by 
baptism  into  death:  that  like  as  Christ 
was  raised  up  from  the  dead  .  .  .  even 
so  we  also  should  walk  in  newness  of 
life."  (Rom.  6:3-4.) 

Peter  taught  that  by  walking  in  this 
"newness  of  life"  one  escapes  "the  cor- 
ruption that  is  in  the  world  through 
lust,"  and  by  developing  within  himself 
faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance, 
patience,  godliness,  brotherly  kindness, 
and  charity,  he  becomes  a  partaker  "of 
the  divine  nature." 

One  who  walks  in  newness  of  life  is 
converted.  On  the  other  hand,  says 
Peter,  "But  he  that  lacketh  these  things 
is  blind,  and  cannot  see  afar  off,  and 
hath  forgotten  that  he  was  purged  from 
his  old  sins."  (See  2  Pet.  1:1-9.)  Such  a 
one  is  not  converted,  even  though  he 
may  have  been  baptized. 

There  is  a  striking  example  of  the 
change  wrought  by  conversion  in  Mor- 
mon's account  of  King  Benjamin's  fare- 
well address.  This  sermon  was  so 
powerful  that  as  Benjamin  delivered  it 
the  multitude  fell  to  the  earth;  for  ".  .  . 
they  .  .  .  viewed  themselves  in  their 
own  carnal  state,  .  .  .  And  they  all 
cried  aloud  .  .  .  O  have  mercy,  and 
apply  the  atoning  blood  of  Christ  that 
we  may  receive  forgiveness  of  our  sins, 
and  our  hearts  may  be  purified;  for  we 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

believe  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
.  . ."  (Mosiah  4:2.) 

Observing  their  humility,  King  Ben- 
jamin continued:  "Believe  in  God;  be- 
lieve that  he  is,  and  that  he  created  all 
things,  .  .  .  believe  that  he  has  all 
wisdom,  and  all  power,  both  in  heaven 
and  in  earth;  .  .  . 

".  .  .  believe  that  ye  must  repent  of 
your  sins  and  forsake  them,  and  hum- 
ble yourselves  before  God;  and  ask  in 
sincerity  of  heart  that  he  would  forgive 
you;  and  now,  if  you  believe  all  these 
things  see  that  ye  do  them."  {Ibid., 
4:9-10.) 

When  he  had  concluded,  he  inquired 
as  to  whether  they  believed  his  words. 

"And  they  all  cried  .  .  .  Yea,  we  be- 
lieve all  (thy)  words  .  .  .  and  also,  we 
know  of  their  surety  and  truth,  .  .  ." 
And  why  were  they  so  confident?  Be- 
cause as  they  said:  ".  .  .  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  ...  has  wrought  a  mighty 
change  in  us,  or  in  our  hearts,  that  we 
have  no  more  disposition  to  do  evil,  but 
to  do  good  continually. 

"And  (they  continued)  we  are  willing 
to  enter  into  a  covenant  with  our  God 
to  do  his  will,  and  to  be  obedient  to 
his  commandments  in  all  things  .  .  .  all 
the  remainder  of  our  days,  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
5:2,  5.) 

Although  these  people  seem  to  have 
been  converted  rather  quickly  from  a 
"disposition  to  do  evil"  to  a  determina- 
tion "to  do  good  continually"  all  the 
remainder  of  their  days,  they  evidently 
fully  met  the  conditions  prescribed  by 
the  Lord  for  baptism,  when  he  said: 
".  .  .  All  those  who  humble  themselves 
before  God,  and  desire  to  be  baptized, 
and  come  forth  with  broken  hearts  and 
contrite  spirits,  and  witness  before  the 
church  that  they  have  truly  repented 
of  all  their  sins,  and  are  willing  to  take 
upon  them  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
having  a  determination  to  serve  him  to 
the  end,  and  truly  manifest  by  their 
works  that  they  have  received  of  the 
Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of 
their  sins,  shall  be  received  by  baptism 
into  his  church."  (D&C  20:37.) 

That  the  Prophet  applied  these  in- 
structions strictly  is  apparent  from  this 
entry  in  his  diary  of  July  5,  1835: 
"Michael  H.  Barton  tried  to  get  into 
the  Church,  but  he  was  not  willing  to 


First  Day 

confess  and  forsake  all  his  sins — and 
he  was  rejected."  (DHC  2,  235.) 

Had  Mr.  Barton  obtained  membership 
in  the  Church  in  his  then  unrepentant 
state,  it  would  have  availed  him  nothing 
no  matter  how  much  he  knew  about 
the  gospel,  because  he  was  not  converted. 

From  some  of  the  Savior's  sayings  it 
would  seem  that  there  might  even  be 
people  in  high  places  whose  conversion 
is  not  complete;  for  example,  conversing 
with  his  apostles  at  his  last  supper,  he 
said  to  Peter,  "Simon,  Simon,  behold, 
Satan  hath  desired  to  have  you,  that 
he  may  sift  you  as  wheat: 

"But  I  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy 
faith  fail  not:  and  when  thou  art  con- 
verted, strengthen  thy  brethren."  (Luke 
22:31-32.)  From  this  it  would  appear 
that  membership  in  the  Church  and 
conversion  are  not  necessarily  synony- 
mous. Being  converted,  as  we  are  here 
using  the  term,  and  having  a  testimony 
are  not  necessarily  the  same  thing 
either.  A  testimony  comes  when  the 
Holy  Ghost  gives  the  earnest  seeker  a 
witness  of  the  truth.  A  moving  testi- 
mony vitalizes  faith;  that  is,  it  induces 
repentance  and  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments. Conversion,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  the  fruit  of,  or  the  reward  for, 
repentance  and  obedience.  (Of  course 
one's  testimony  continues  to  increase 
as  he  is  converted.) 

Conversion  is  effected  by  divine  for- 
giveness, which  remits  sins.  The  se- 
quence is  something  like  this.  An 
honest  seeker  hears  the  message.  He 
asks  the  Lord  in  prayer  if  it  is  true.  The 
Holy  Spirit  gives  him  a  witness.  This 
is  a  testimony.  If  one's  testimony  is 
strong  enough,  he  repents  and  obeys  the 
commandments.  By  such  obedience  he 
receives  divine  forgiveness  which  remits 
sin.  Thus  he  is  converted  to  a  newness 
of  life.   His  spirit  is  healed. 

From  what  Jesus  said  at  the  time  he 
healed  the  man  "sick  with  the  palsy," 
it  would  seem  that  remittance  of  sins 
is  the  therapy  which  heals  and  that  the 
two  terms  are  synonymous.  Concern- 
ing that  incident,  Luke  says,  ".  .  .  the 
power  of  the  Lord  was  present  to 
heal.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  5:17.)  Jesus,  recog- 
nizing the  faith  of  the  palsied  man  and 
his  associates,  ".  .  .  said  unto  him,  Man, 
thy  sins  are  forgiven  thee."  (Ibid.,  5:20.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


25 


For  this  the  Pharisees  charged  him  with 
blasphemy,  saying  within  themselves, 
".  .  .  Who  can  forgive  sins  but  God? 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  5:21.)  Perceiving  their 
thoughts,  Jesus  said,  "Whether  is  easier, 
to  say,  Thy  sins  be  forgiven  thee;  or  to 
say,  Rise  up  and  walk?"  Then  he 
added,  "But  that  ye  may  know  that  the 
Son  of  man  hath  power  upon  earth  to 
forgive  sins,  (he  said  to  the  sick  of  the 
palsy),  I  say  unto  thee,  Arise,  and  take 
up  thy  couch,  and  go  into  thine  house." 
(Ibid.,  5:23-24.)  This,  of  course,  the 
man  immediately  did. 

In  this  instance  there  was  a  physical 
healing.  Sometimes  there  is  also  a  heal- 
ing of  the  nervous  system  or  of  the 
mind.  But  always  the  remittance  of 
sins  which  attends  divine  forgiveness 
heals  the  spirit.  This  accounts  for  the 
fact  that  in  the  scriptures  conversion 
and  healing  are  repeatedly  associated. 

For  example,  in  1837  the  Lord  said 
to  Thomas  B.  Marsh,  then  President  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  ".  .  .  pray 
for  thy  brethren  of  the  Twelve.  Ad- 
monish them  sharply  for  my  name's 
sake,  and  let  them  be  admonished  for 
all  their  sins,  .  .  . 

"And  after  their  temptations,  and 
much  tribulation,  behold.  I,  the  Lord, 
will  feel  after  them,  and  if  they  harden 
not  their  hearts,  and  stiffen  not  their 
necks  against  me,  they  shall  be  con- 
verted, and  I  will  heal  them."  (D&C 
112:12-13.  Italics  added.) 

Jesus  frequently  spoke  of  his  healing 
the  converted.  Citing  Isaiah,  he  said, 
".  .  .  this  people's  heart  is  waxed  gross, 
and  their  ears  are  dull  of  hearing,  and 
their  eyes  they  have  closed;  lest  at  any 
time  they  should  see  with  their  eyes, 
and  hear  with  their  ears,  and  should 
understand  with  their  heart,  and  should 
be  converted,  and  I  should  heal  them." 
(Matt.  13:15.) 

At  the  opening  of  his  mortal  ministry 
he  told  his  fellow  townsmen  in 
Nazareth  that  he  had  been  sent  ".  .  . 
to  heal  the  brokenhearted,  .  .  ." 
(Luke  4:18.) 

To  the  distraught  Nephites  he  thus 
spoke  out  of  the  awful  darkness  which 
attended  his  crucifixion:  "O  all  ye  that 
are  spared  because  ye  were  more  right- 
eous than  they,  will  ye  not  now  return 
unto  me,  and  repent  of  your  sins,  and 


be  converted,  that  I  may  heal  you?" 
(3  Nephi  9:13.) 

Somebody  recently  asked  how  one 
could  know  when  he  is  converted.  The 
answer  is  simple.  He  may  be  assured 
of  it  when  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  his  soul  is  healed.  When  this 
occurs,  he  will  recognize  it  by  the  way 
he  feels,  for  he  will  feel  as  the  people 
of  Benjamin  felt  when  they  received 
remission  of  sins.  The  record  says,  .  .  . 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them, 
and  they  were  filled  with  joy,  having 
received  a  remission  of  their  sins,  and 
having  peace  of  conscience,  .  .  ." 
(Mosiah  4:3.) 

When  Alma  the  younger  was  con- 
verted he  said:  "...  I  could  remember 
my  pains  no  more;  yea,  I  was  harrowed 
up  by  the  memory  of  my  sins  no  more. 

"And  oh,  what  joy,  and  what  marvel- 
ous light  I  did  behold;  yea,  my  soul 
was  filled  with  joy  as  exceeding  as  was 
my  pain! 

"Yea,  I  say  unto  you,  my  son,  that 
there  could  be  nothing  so  exquisite  and 
so  bitter  as  were  my  pains.  Yea,  and 
again  I  say  unto  you,  my  son,  that  on 
the  other  hand,  there  can  be  nothing  so 
exquisite  and  sweet  as  was  my  joy." 
(Alma  36:19-21.) 

As  a  third  and  final  guide,  I  quote 
from  President  Joseph  F.  Smith:  "No 
person  can  be  properly  baptized  unless 
he  has  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  has  repented  of  his  sins,  with  a  re- 
pentance that  need  not  be  repented  of. 
But  faith  comes  by  hearing  the  word  of 
God.  This  implies  that  the  candidate 
must  be  taught.  Efficient  teaching  and 
preparation  must  precede  the  ordinance, 
so  that  the  candidate  may  have  a  proper 
appreciation  and  conception  of  its  pur- 
poses. The  call  to  baptism,  in  the  mis- 
sion of  our  Savior,  was  always  preceded 
by  instructions  in  the  doctrines  which 
he  taught."  (The  Improvement  Era,  14, 
266;  Gospel  Doctrine,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
7th  ed,  p.  99.) 

Speaking  of  his  own  experience,  he 
said:  "The  feeling  that  came  upon  me 
was  that  of  pure  peace,  of  love  and  of 
light.  I  felt  in  my  soul  that  if  I  had 
sinned — and  surely  I  was  not  without 
sin — that  it  had  been  forgiven  me;  that 
I  was  indeed  cleansed  from  sin;  my 
heart  was  touched,  and  I  felt  that  I 


26 

Friday,  October  4 

would  not  injure  the  smallest  insect 
beneath  my  feet.  I  felt  as  if  I  wanted 
to  do  good  everywhere  to  everybody 
and  to  everything.  I  felt  a  newness  of 
life,  a  newness  of  desire  to  do  that 
which  was  right.  There  was  not  one 
particle  of  desire  for  evil  left  in  my 
soul.  I  was  but  a  little  boy,  it  is  true, 
when  I  was  baptized;  but  this  was  the 
influence  that  came  upon  me,  and  I 
know  that  it  was  from  God,  and  was  and 
ever  has  been  a  living  witness  to  me  of 
my  acceptance  of  the  Lord."  (April 
Conference  Report,  1898;  Gospel  Doc- 
trine, Joseph  F.  Smith,  7th  ed.,  p.  96.) 

As  Jesus  ministered  among  the 
Nephites,  he  told  them  not  to  admin- 
ister the  Sacrament  to  the  unworthy, 
but  to  continue  laboring  with  them; 
".  .  .  for  ye  know  not  but  what  they 
will  return  and  repent,  and  come  unto 
me  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  and  I 
shall  heal  them;  and  ye  shall  be  the 
means  of  bringing  salvation  unto  them." 
(3  Nephi  18:32.) 

Getting  people's  spirits  healed  through 
conversion  is  the  only  way  they  can  be 
healed.  I  know  this  is  an  unpopular 
doctrine  and  a  slow  way  to  solve  the 
problems  of  men  and  nations.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  I  am  convinced  that 
relatively  few  among  the  billions  of 
earth's  inhabitants  will  be  converted. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Nevertheless,  I  know  arid  solemnly  wit- 
ness that  there  is  no  other  means  by 
which  the  sin-sick  souls  of  men  can  be 
healed  or  for  a  troubled  world  to  find 
peace.  I  know  that  the  unbelieving 
will  reject  this  divine  way.  But  this 
is  nothing  new.  They  have  been  re- 
jecting it  ever  since  the  time  of  Cain. 
They  have  from  the  beginning  refused 
to  accept  Christ  and  his  gospel.  They 
killed  the  ancient  prophets.  They 
burned  Abinadi.  They  stoned  Samuel 
the  Lamanite.  They  crucified  the  Lord 
himself.  In  our  own  day  they  mar- 
tyred Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  the  great 
prophet  of  the  restoration.  But  all  that 
has  happened  in  the  past  has  not,  and 
all  that  occurs  in  the  future  will  not, 
change  the  truth  that  conversion  to 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  gospel  is  the  one 
and  only  way;  for  still  it  must  be  said 
that  "there  is  none  other  way  given 
under  heaven  by  which  men  must  be 
saved."  (See  Acts  4:12.)  To  this  I  wit- 
ness in  solemn  testimony. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder  William 
J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Over  a  score  or  so  of  years,  I  promoted 
and  sold  something  I  have  never  seen; 
I  didn't  even  know  what  it  was — I  still 
don't.  I  have  not  only  never  seen  it;  I 
have  tried  assiduously  to  avoid  touch- 
ing it.  Once,  stringing  lights  on  a 
Christmas  tree,  I  accidentally  got  my 
finger  in  an  empty  socket;  oh,  I  felt  it! 

Who  really  knows  what  electricity  is? 
We  know  what  it  can  do.  It  lights 
this  building;  it  lights  our  homes;  it 
lights  our  streets;  it  runs  our  factories 
and  our  mills;  it  affords  us  lovely  music, 
radio,  television,  and  a  score  of  wonder- 
ful appliances  in  our  homes,  but  who 
really  knows  what  this  great  power, 
called  electricity,  actually  is? 

Over  the  same  score  or  so  of  years,  I 
promoted  another  something  which  I 


have  never  seen;  I  don't  really  know 
what  it  is.  I  have  not  only  never  seen 
it;  I  have  never  heard  it;  I  have  never 
smelled  it;  I  have  never  tasted  it;  I 
have  never  touched  it,  but  on  occasions 
it  has  touched  me.  More  than  once,  as 
I  officiated  in  priesthood  ordinance 
work,  I  have  felt  it. 

Who  really  knows  what  this  great 
power  of  the  priesthood  is?  We  know 
what  it  can  do.  By  that  power  this  and 
other  worlds  were  created  and  will  be 
redeemed  (JD  15,  127;  24,  242);  by  that 
power  the  city  of  Enoch  was  taken  up 
to  heaven  (Joseph  Smith's  Teachings, 
p.  170),  by  that  power  the  waters  of 
the  Red  Sea  were  parted  to  liberate 
Israel;  by  that  power  Elijah  sealed  the 
heavens  so  that  no  rain  or  dew  fell  upon 


ELDER  WILLIAM  /.  CR1TCHLOW,  jR. 


27 


the  earth;  by  that  power  Brigham  Young 
rebuked  the  frost  and  the  sterility  of 
the  soil,  and  this  valley  became  fruit- 
ful. Two  thousand  years  ago,  one 
possessing  that  power  gave  new  eyes  to 
the  blind,  new  legs  to  the  halt,  turned 
water  into  wine,  walked  on  the  water, 
cleansed  lepers,  cast  out  evil  spirits,  fed 
thousands  by  blessing  a  few  loaves  and 
fishes,  restored  life  to  the  dead.  Two 
thousand  years  later — even  today — 
bearers  of  that  same  priesthood  power, 
again  cast  out  devils,  restore  health  to 
the  sick,  and  in  other  ways  employ  that 
power.  Employing  it,  a  young  man, 
Nephi  by  name,  once  shocked  his  as- 
sailants into  submission  by  pointing 
his  hand  at  them.  The  assailants  were 
his  brothers.  (1  Nephi  17:53.) 

Again,  let  me  ask  who,  among  all 
mortal  men,  really  knows  what  this 
marvelous  priesthood  power  actually  is? 
Obviously  it  is  power;  its  source,  ob- 
viously, too,  is  God.  Why  not  call  it 
then  for  what  it  truly  is — the  power  of 
God?  (C.R.,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  p.  5, 
October  1904.)  President  John  Taylor 
so  called  it  saying,  "It  is  nothing  more 
nor  less  than  the  power  of  God."  (John 
Taylor,  Gospel  Kingdom,  p.  129.) 

Priesthood  is  more  than  power — it  is 
authority.  Quoting  President  Joseph  F. 
again:  "It  is  .  .  .  the  power  of  God 
delegated  to  man  by  which  man  can 
act  in  the  earth  ...  in  the  name  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  act  legitimately;  .  .  ."  (Op. 
cit.,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  p.  5,  October 
1904.)  He  also  said:  "The  Priesthood 
in  general  is  the  authority  given  to  man 
to  act  for  God.  .  .  .  But  it  is  necessary 
that  every  act  performed  under  this  au- 
thority shall  be  done  at  the  proper  time 
and  place,  in  the  proper  way,  and  after 
the  proper  order.  The  power  of  direct- 
ing these  labors  constitute  the  keys  of 
the  Priesthood.  In  their  fullness  these 
keys  are  held  by  only  one  person  at  a 
time,  the  prophet  and  president  of  The 
Church."  (The  Improvement  Era  4, 
230.) 

President  David  O.  McKay  holds  all 
of  the  keys  of  the  priesthood.  He  or  his 
predecessors  in  office  have  directly 
(personally)  or  indirectly  (by  delegat- 
ing authority  to  others)  conferred  keys 
upon  temple  presidents,  stake  presidents, 


mission  presidents,  quorum  presidents, 
bishops,  and  others.  "No  man  taketh 
this  honour  unto  himself,  but  he  that 
is  called  of  God,  as  was  Aaron."  (Heb. 
5:4.)  "We  believe  that  a  man  must 
be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who 
are  in  authority  to  .  .  .  administer  in  the 
ordinances  thereof."  (5th  Article  of 
Faith.)  Aaron  was  so  called  and  or- 
dained. (D&C  27:8.) 

"Some  suppose  this  authority  may  be 
derived  from  the  Bible,"  said  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  "but  nothing  could  be 
more  absurd.  ...  If  by  reading  and 
believing  the  Bible  this  authority  could 
be  obtained,  all  who  read  and  believed 
would  have  it — one  equally  with  an- 
other. .  .  .  God  Almighty  is  the  only 
source  from  whence  this  knowledge, 
power  and  authority  can  be  ob- 
tained, .  .  .  The  Scriptures  may  serve 
as  a  guide  to  lead  us  to  God,  .  .  .  but 
they  can  do  no  more."  (JD  19,  191.) 

Priesthood  is  eternal  and  everlasting. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said,  "The 
Priesthood  is  an  everlasting  principle, 
and  existed  with  God  from  eternity,  and 
will  to  eternity,  without  beginning  of 
days  or  end  of  years.  .  .  ."  Adam  ob- 
tained the  priesthood  "in  the  Creation, 
before  the  world  was  formed."  He 
(Adam)  stands  at  the  head  as  the  pre- 
siding high  priest  (under  Christ)  over 
all  the  earth  for  all  ages.  Qosevh  Smith's 
Teachings,  pp.  157-158.)  This  priest- 
hood of  the  holy  order,  known  later  as 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  continued 
in  patriarchal  order  without  a  break 
with  Adam's  worthy  descendants  until 
the  day  of  Moses.  (D&C  84:6-16; 
107:41-53.) 

Through  Moses  the  Lord  attempted 
to  set  up  the  house  of  Israel  soon  after 
their  liberation  from  Egyptian  bondage 
as  a  kingdom  of  priests  of  this  holy 
patriarchal  order.  He  sent  Moses  down 
from  the  Mount  with  tablets  of  stone 
upon  which  were  inscribed  principles 
of  salvation,  but  seeing  the  people  en- 
gaged in  idol  worship,  Moses  dashed  the 
tablets  to  the  ground,  breaking  them 
into  fragments.  Again,  the  Lord  called 
Moses  up  on  the  Mount,  and  there  he 
rewrote  with  his  finger  on  tablets 
which  Moses  had  prepared  the  Ten 
Commandments;  but  he  deleted  this 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

time  the  salvation  principles  which 
necessitated  priesthood  of  the  holy 
patriarchal  order,  denying  thereby  his 
children  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
Later  he  removed  Moses,  who  held  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  thus  leaving 
Israel  with  only  a  Lesser  Priesthood, 
called  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  after 
Aaron  upon  whom  it  was  conferred. 
(Exod.  Inspired  Version.  34:1-2;  D&C 
84:17-25.)  From  that  time  on  until  the 
Savior's  ministry  on  earth,  this  was  gen- 
erally the  prevailing  authority  of  God 
on  the  earth. 

Jesus  restored  at  his  coming  the 
Higher  Priesthood,  he  being  "the  Great 
High  Priest,  forever  after  the  order  of 
Melchizedek,"  (Joseph  Smith's  Teach- 
ings, p.  158,  Heb.  5:6;  2:17-18)  but 
after  the  passing  of  his  apostles  there 
was  no  one  left  holding  the  keys,  to 
authorize  the  ordination  of  any  mortal 
man  to  any  office  in  either  priesthood. 
The  apostate  world  accordingly  was  left 
without  priesthood  for  about  sixteen 
long,  dark  centuries.  Then  in  May 
1829  the  Lord  sent  John  the  Baptist,  a 
firstborn,  literal  descendant  of  Aaron, 
who  held  the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  or 
Lesser  Priesthood,  to  restore  that  priest- 
hood. He  also  sent,  soon  after,  the 
Apostles  Peter,  James,  and  John,  who 
held  the  keys  of  the  Higher  or  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood,  to  restore  that 
priesthood.  The  recipients  of  both 
priesthoods  were  the  great  American 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  associate 
Oliver  Cowdery. 

From  Adam  to  Moses  the  existent 
priesthood  was  patriarchal  or  Mel- 
chizedek or  the  Holy  Priesthood — all 
one  and  the  same.  Those  who  held  it 
were  high  priests  and  patriarchs — it  had 
no  appendages.  From  Moses  to  Jesus 
the  prevailing  priesthood  was  Aaronic — 
sometimes  called  Levitical.  The  first- 
born sons  of  Aaron's  posterity  were  the 
"high  priests"  (higher  priests  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood);  the  sons  of  Levi 
were  their  assistants.  Appendages  to 
both  priesthoods  were  added  by  our 
Lord  who  gave  his  Church  in  Palestine 
apostles,  bishops,  evangelists,  high 
priests,  seventies,  elders,  priests,  teachers, 
and  deacons.  He  similarly  perfected 
his  Church  upon  this  American  conti- 
nent when  he  appeared  here  after  his 


First  Day 

crucifixion  and  resurrection  in  Jerusalem. 

"The  holy  Priesthood  is  a  system  of 
laws  and  government  that  is  pure  and 
holy; .  .  ."  (]D  7:202)— "a  perfect  law  of 
theocracy."  (Joseph  Smith's  Teachings, 
p.  322.)  Presently,  it  is  the  government 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints — God's  kingdom  here  on 
earth.  Eventually,  when  the  kingdom 
embraces  the  earth,  when  ".  .  .  every 
knee  should  bow,  .  .  .  and  every  tongue 
should  confess  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
Lord,  .  .  ."  (Phil.  2:10-11.)  I  sincerely 
expect  priesthood  will  be  the  governing 
world  power.  Can  man  devise  a  better 
system  of  laws  and  government? 

Priesthood  is  responsibility.  Jesus  was 
given  the  responsibility  of  this  earth. 
Absenting  himself,  he  left  his  kingdom 
here  on  earth  in  the  hands  of  his  offi- 
cers— those  who  hold  the  priesthood. 
The  kingdom  is  no  stronger  nor  better 
than  its  ofPcers.  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  said,  "The  highest  calling  the 
Lord  ever  called  any  human  being  to 
in  any  age  of  the  world,  has  been  to 
receive  the  Holy  Priesthood,  with  its 
keys  and  powers."  (Wilford  Woodruff, 
Millennial  Star  58:305,  April  5,  1896.) 
When  men  take  a  priesthood  calling, 
they  covenant  to  magnify  it;  they  take 
upon  them  the  obligation  to  labor  with 
zeal  and  energy  in  their  particular  call- 
ing. (D8C  84:109,  110;  107:99-100.) 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  asked: 
"Will  you  who  hold  the  priesthood, 
profane  the  name  of  Deity?  Would  you 
be  riotous,  and  eat  and  drink  with  the 
drunken  .  .  .  ?  Would  you  .  .  .  forget 
your  prayers  and  fail  to  remember  the 
Giver  of  all  good?  Would  you  .  .  . 
violate  the  confidence  and  the  love  of 
God  .  .  .  ?  Would  you  .  .  .  dishonor 
your  wife  or  your  children?  .  .  .  Will 
you  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it 
holy?  Will  you  observe  the  law  of 
tithing  and  all  the  requirements  of  the 
gospel?  Will  you  carry  with  you  at 
all  times  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  the 
desire  to  be  good?  Will  you  teach  your 
children  the  principles  of  life  and  sal- 
vation? .  .  ."  (The  Improvement  Era  21, 
105-106.) 

Sometimes  men  relax  and  treat  their 
priesthood  responsibilities  lightly  in  the 
home,  failing  to  teach  their  families  the 
gospel,  failing  to  have  family  prayers, 


ELDER  WILLIAM  ].  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


29 


failing  to  use  the  priesthood  when  sick- 
ness uninvitingly  stalks  the  home.  Hus- 
bands and  sons  are  sometimes  lax  in 
their  duties  because  they  lack  the  co- 
operation and  encouragement  of  their 
wives  and  mothers. 

The  sisters  would  do  well,  if,  follow- 
ing the  counsel  of  the  Prophet,  they 
provoked  their  husbands  and  sons  to 
do  good  works  (Relief  Society  minutes, 
March  17,  1842) — priesthood  works. 
Husbands,  rightfully  and  scripturally 
too,  are  the  family  heads  (Eph.  5:23) — 
its  priests  and  its  spokesmen.  The 
wives,  thanks  be  to  God,  are  the  fam- 
ily hearts. 

"There  is  a  center  in  each  home  from 

which  all  joys  must  start. 
"That  center?  It  is  a  mother's  heart." 

With  love  and  kindness  and  with 
tact,  of  course,  the  heart  can  usually 
sway  the  head — even  into  priesthood 
activity.  Such  endeavor  is  expected  of 
our  sisters. 

The  subject  of  this  talk  could  well  be 
— For  Men  Only.  Priesthood  is  for  men 
only — it  is  not  conferred  upon  women. 
The  sisters  may  be  set  apart  as  officers 
in  the  priesthood  auxiliaries,  but  they 
are  never  ordained  to  office  in  the  priest- 
hood. They  do  not  share  the  priesthood 
with  their  husbands,  fathers,  or  sons. 
They  do  share  the  blessings  of  the  priest- 
hood with  their  husbands,  fathers,  or 
sons.  They  do  share  the  blessings  with 
their  husbands;  sealed  in  a  temple,  they 
go  along  hand  in  hand  with  them  to- 
ward exaltation,  finally  reigning  as 
"queens  and  priestesses"  with  their  hus- 
bands who  become  "kings  and  priests." 
(D&C  94:41.)  Infrequently  a  sister  asks: 
Why  can't  we  (sisters)  hold  the  priest- 
hood? My  answer:  If  and  when  he 
whose  business  priesthood  is  wants  you 
to  hold  it,  he  will  let  his  prophet  know. 
Until  then  there  is  nothing  we  can  do 
about  it. 

Priesthood  is  God's  greatest  gift  to  his 
children,  save  perhaps  the  gift  of  his 
Son,  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 
Some  may  rate  the  gift  of  mortality, 
followed  by  immortality  and  the  prom- 
ise of  eternal  life  as  a  greater  gift. 
Priesthood,  being  an  eternal  principle, 
existed  before  mortality.  Immortality  is 


the  state  of  resurrected  souls.  Did  the 
resurrection  act  involve  an  ordinance  of 
the  priesthood — a  necessary  ordinance, 
presently  unrevealed?  Certainly  the 
resurrection  act  is  another  manifestation 
of  the  great  power  of  the  priesthood. 
May  I  ask — how  can  we  achieve  eternal 
life  without  the  blessings  and  ordinances 
of  the  priesthood? 

The  power  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood is  to  have  the  power  of  "endless 
lives,"  said  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
".  .  .  And  all  those,"  he  said,  "who  are 
ordained  unto  this  priesthood  are  made 
like  unto  the  Son  of  God,  abiding  a 
priest  continually."  (Heb.  7:3.  Inspired 
Version.)  He  further  said,  "Those  hold- 
ing the  fulness  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  are  kings  and  priests  of  the 
Most  High  God,  holding  the  keys  of 
power  and  blessing."  Our  Lord  ap- 
praised this  wonderful  gift  in  these 
words: 

".  .  .  all  they  who  receive  this  priest- 
hood receive  me,  .  .  . 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him."  (D&C  84:35,  37-38.) 

No  mortal  man  will  ever  realize  all 
of  the  blessings  in  this  great  promise 
as  he  dwells  here  in  this  mundane 
period  of  our  everlasting  lives,  but  by 
reason  of  priesthood  which  is  attained 
and  honored,  we  have  God's  promise 
that  sometime  we  may  become  like 
unto  God.  ".  .  .  all  that  my  Father 
hath  shall  be  given  unto  him."  (D&C 
84:38.)  Incidentally,  God  had  some- 
thing to  say  about  those  who  do  not 
honor  their  priesthood.  I  have  not 
time  to  inject  his  dour  warning  into 
my  remarks  today.  All  who  hold  the 
priesthood,  however,  should  read  what 
he  said. 

To  you  who  bear  the  priesthood,  may 
I  say:  In  an  inventory  of  your  posses- 
sions— physical,  mental,  spiritual,  and 
financial — priesthood,  if  honored,  may 
be  your  greatest  asset;  it  could  be  the 
best  investment  you  ever  made.  It  costs 
you  nothing;  its  dividends  can  be  fabu- 
lous. Appraise  it  honestly  and  list  it 
high  up  among  your  assets  on  your 
life's  balance  sheet.   And  you  who  are 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

not  honoring  your  priesthood,  debit  it 
high  up  on  the  liability  side  of  your 
life's  balance  sheet.  It  could  well  be 
your  greatest  liability.  You  could, 
sooner  or  later,  find  yourself  bankrupt 
in  the  kingdom  of  God.  As  of  this  day, 
is  your  priesthood  an  asset  or  a  liability? 

I  bear  testimony  regarding  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  in  our  restored  Church, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 


First  Day 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "O,  Say  What  Is 
Truth?"  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Mad- 
sen  will  conduct.  After  the  singing  Elder 
John  Longden  will  speak  to  us. 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Franklin  D. 
Richards. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  so  grate- 
ful to  be  able  to  use  this  salutation  and 
know  that  we  are  brothers  and  sisters 
in  the  kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ.  A  story 
I  read  recently  is  appropriate  here. 

A  preacher  in  a  small  community  de- 
cided to  do  some  remodeling  and  reno- 
vating of  his  church.  To  begin  with 
he  requested  a  new  chandelier.  After 
three  or  four  weeks  had  elapsed  and  it 
hadn't  arrived,  he  approached  one  of 
the  deacons  on  the  board  and  inquired 
why.  He  was  informed  there  were 
three  reasons:  "First,  it  hadn't  been 
ordered  because  there  was  no  one  on  the 
board  who  could  spell  'chandelier.' 
Second,  we  were  afraid  there  wouldn't 
be  anyone  to  play  it  when  it  came.  And 
third,  what  we  really  need  in  this 
church  is  more  light." 

I  recognize  we  have  light  today  which 
comes  through  our  prophet  and  mouth- 
piece. We  also  have  the  light  from  the 
teachings  of  the  Master  almost  two 
thousand  years  ago,  and  I  should  like 
to  speak  at  this  time  on  what  I  believe 
is  a  crying  need  in  the  world  today,  on 
the  basic  principle  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  which  is  love. 

The  scriptures  teach:  "For  God  so 
loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only 
begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have 
everlasting  life."   (John  3:16.)  This 


indicates  the  depth  of  this  great 
principle. 

It  was  exemplified  by  the  Savior 
when  he  lived  upon  the  earth.  On  one 
occasion,  he  was  queried  by  one  of  the 
scribes:  "What  is  the  great  command- 
ment in  the  law?"  In  reply,  Jesus 
taught  an  eternal  truth.  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength: 
this  is  the  first  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like,  namely,  this. 
Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thy- 
self "  (Mark  12:30-31.)  "On  these 

two  commandments  hang  all  the  law 
and  the  prophets."  (Matt.  22:40.) 

There  was  none  other  commandment 
greater  than  these,  so  said  Jesus.  (Idem.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  spoke  on  this  great 
principle  many  times  in  plain,  under- 
standable language. 

Even  though  changing  conditions 
exist  in  the  world  today,  and  many 
people  are  confused,  the  application  of 
this  one  principle  in  our  everyday  lives 
will  bring  happiness,  contentment, 
and  peace. 

Surely,  if  I  love  my  fellow  man,  I  will 
not  cheat  him,  lie  about  him,  or  commit 
any  manner  of  evil  against  him.  So 
again,  loving  all  my  fellow  men,  I  will 
truly  find  happiness,  contentment,  and  a 
peace  that  passeth  understanding. 

Paul  was  inspired  to  reveal  the  virtues, 


ELDER  ]OHN  LONGDEN 


31 


or  may  we  call  them  ingredients,  of 
which  love  is  composed.  Addressing  the 
Corinthian  Saints  who  had  membership 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  Paul 
said:  "Love  suffereth  long  and  is  kind." 
(See  1  Cor.  13:4.)  We  sing  a  great 
hymn,  maybe  not  often  enough,  "Let 
Us  Oft  Speak  Kind  Words  to  Each 
Other."  So  much  more  is  accomplished 
by  speaking  in  kind  words  and  soft 
tones. 

"Love  envieth  not."  We  look  at  others 
and  think  the  grass  is  greener  on  their 
side.  We  sometimes  might  wonder 
why  ours  seems  not  as  green,  but  love 
envieth  not.  "Love  vaunteth  not  itself, 
is  not  puffed  up."  (See  ibid.,  13:4.)  In 
other  words,  love  teaches  true  humility. 
Jesus  taught  it  in  one  parable  [parable 
of  Pharisee  and  Publican],  "Whosoever 
shall  exalt  himself  shall  be  abased;  and 
he  that  shall  humble  himself  shall  be 
exalted."  (Matt.  23:12.) 

Daniel  Webster  had  a  great  thought 
when  asked,  "What  is  the  highest 
thought  that  has  ever  entered  your 
mind?"  He  answered,  "My  account- 
ability to  Almighty  God." 

We  who  have  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel  should  recognize  our  accountabil- 
ity to  God  regardless  of  what  our 
achievements  might  be  in  business,  in 
church,  in  school,  in  civic  affairs. 

Paul  further  said:  "Love  doth  not 
behave  itself  unseemly."  (See  1  Cor. 
13:5.) 

President  McKay  said  it  in  a  few 
words  some  time  ago:  "We  are  here  in 
mortality  to  develop  the  power  of  self- 
mastery."  Every  single  day  we  have 
opportunity  to  practise  this  art  of 
self-mastery. 

Again  Paul  said,  "Love  seeketh  not 
her  own."  (See  ibid.,  13:5.)  The  Savior 
taught  by  his  own  example,  to  lose 
ourselves  in  the  service  of  others.  Our 
beloved  prophet  said  on  his  ninetieth 
birthday:  "You  may  travel  the  world 
over  but  you  will  not  find  happiness  or 
contentment  until  you  lose  yourself  in 
the  service  of  mankind."  This,  of  course, 
would  mean  sacrifice  to  God  and 
our  neighbor. 

Continuing,  Paul  said:  "Love  is  not 
easily  provoked.  Love  thinketh  no  evil. 
Love  irejoiceth  not  in  iniquity,  but  in 


the  truth."  (See  ibid.,  13:5-6.)  Paul,  we 
see,  had  a  depth  of  understanding  re- 
garding this  great  principle  of  love  and 
the  blessings  to  be  attained  by  those 
who  would  honor  and  recognize  and 
put  into  effect  in  their  lives  these  two 
commandments,  for  he  said:  "Eye  hath 
not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have 
entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the 
things  which  God  hath  prepared  for 
them  that  love  him."  (1  Cor.  2:9.) 

As  I  tour  missions  or  come  into  your 
stakes  each  week,  I  have  a  great  hope 
for  the  future  because  of  the  many  just 
plain,  good  people  who  are  applying 
all  the  principles  of  love  in  their  lives. 
I  say  to  you,  God  bless  you. 

The  English  statesman,  William 
Gladstone,  said:  "We  look  forward  to 
the  time  when  the  power  of  love  will 
replace  the  love  of  power;  then  will 
our  world  know  the  blessing  of  peace." 
What  a  difference  the  placing  of  words 
makes.  The  love  of  power  or  the  power 
of  love — worlds  apart! 

It  is  essential  to  love  God,  love  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  and  love  our  neighbor 
as  ourselves. 

We  are  living  in  a  world  of  automa- 
tion. Machines  seem  to  be  taking  over 
all  our  jobs.  Edwin  Markham,  an 
American  poet,  had  a  great  idea  that 
is  worth  repeating:  "The  way  things 
are  going,  we  had  better  learn  to  do 
things  machines  can't  do.  Love  each 
other,  for  instance." 

Throughout  his  ministry,  the  Master 
kept  repeating  the  importance  of  love 
on  many  occasions.  He  said:  "A  new 
commandment  I  give  unto  you,  that  ye 
love  one  another;  as  I  have  loved  you, 
that  ye  also  love  one  another. 

"By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye 
are  my  disciples,  if  ye  have  love  one  to 
another."  (John  13:34-35.) 

Do  you  think  a  teacher  who  drove 
some  twenty  miles  in  a  battered  old 
car  whenever  there  was  a  meeting  to 
pick  up  just  one  little  girl  who  lived 
in  a  remote  area  of  the  stake  had  a  love 
of  God  for  her  fellow  men?  I  doubt  that 
anyone  really  knew  what  she  was  doing. 
I  just  happened  to  hear  about  it. 

Oh,  may  God  give  us  the  faith  and 
the  desire  to  put  this  commandment  of 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

the  Lord  into  effect.  ".  .  .  love  one  an- 
other; as  I  have  loved  you,  that  ye 
shall  also  love  one  another."  (Ibid., 
13:24.)  Then  the  world  may  know 
that  we  are  true  disciples  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  God  give  us  the  faith, 
the  courage,  the  determination  to  make 
application  of  these  two  great  command- 
ments in  our  lives  each  day,  I  humbly 


First  Day 

pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  an  Assistant,  will 
be  our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters: 

Sister  Richards  and  I  have  recently 
returned  from  the  missions  on  the  east 
coast,  and  we  rejoice  in  the  tremendous 
growth  of  the  kingdom.  I  am  continu- 
ally amazed  and  pleased  as  I  travel 
throughout  the  missions  and  stakes  of 
the  Church  to  find  so  many  members 
accepting  the  admonition  of  President 
McKay  to  be  missionaries.  How  many 
of  you  have  had  the  joy  of  seeing  your 
friends  and  neighbors  take  an  interest 
in  the  Church  and  be  baptized,  because 
of  your  being  a  missionary? 

Today  I  would  like  to  talk  to  you 
about  the  Every  Member  a  Missionary 
program — an  inspired,  effective,  and 
interesting  plan.  One  of  the  important 
characteristics  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  missionary  activity.  The 
Savior  has  charged  us  to  ".  .  .  teach  all 
nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost."  (Matt.  28:19.)  And  every 
nation  includes  our  friends  and  the  peo- 
ple we  casually  meet  regardless  of 
where  we  live. 

The  question  is:  How  can  we,  a  rela- 
tively small  group,  accomplish  this  great 
responsibility?  Certainly  not  with  the 
sixteen  thousand  full-time,  stake,  and 
district  missionaries  we  now  have — re- 
gardless of  how  good  they  arel 

But,  our  beloved  Prophet  David  O. 
McKay  has  given  us  the  Every  Member 
a  Missionary  plan.  We  can  take  the 
gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue, 
and  people  as  the  Every  Member  a  Mis- 
sionary plan  is  understood  and  used 
effectively  throughout  the  Church  and 
by  using  modern  methods  which  be- 


come available  as  the  Lord  pours  his 
Spirit  upon  all  flesh. 

Heretofore,  missionaries  generally 
spent  most  of  their  time  in  finding  in- 
terested persons  to  teach  and  a  small 
part  of  their  time  in  teaching.  Now, 
the  Every  Member  a  Missionary  plan 
gives  the  members  a  chance  to  do  mis- 
sionary work  by  finding  interested  per- 
sons for  the  missionaries  to  teach.  This 
greatly  increases  the  effectiveness  of  the 
missionaries.  They  can  teach  many 
more  people,  particularly  as  they  are 
taught  in  groups. 

In  working  with  the  east  coast  mis- 
sions, I  find  that  the  great  increase  in 
convert  baptisms,  and  especially  bap- 
tisms of  entire  families,  is  more  and 
more  attributable  to  the  fact  that  a 
greater  number  of  members  are  finding 
interested  persons  for  the  missionaries 
to  teach — and  the  members  are  loving  it. 

We  had  the  opportunity  of  meeting 
many  of  these  wonderful  members  and 
hearing  of  their  exciting  and  happy 
experiences.  I  am  confident  that  there 
are  thousands  of  members  of  the  Church 
that  have  a  sincere  desire  to  do  mission- 
ary work,  but  don't  know  what  to  do 
or  how  to  do  it.  How  then  can  a 
member,  regardless  of  age  or  sex,  become 
an  effective  missionary  within  the  mean- 
ing of  the  prophet's  admonition — Every 
Member  a  Missionary? 

You  ask,  what  can  I  do?  Well,  you 
can  find  persons  who  would  like  to 
know  more  about  the  Church.  But, 
how  can  I  find  such  persons?  The  fol- 
lowing three  ways  are  pretty  much  the 
basis  of  the  Every  Member  a  Mission- 
ary Program. 

First,  ask  people  what  they  know 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


33 


about  the  Church  and  if  they  would 
like  to  know  more — yes,  ask  the  golden 
questions. 

Second,  take  your  friends  and  neigh- 
bors to  church  meetings  and  socials. 

Third,  live  the  gospel.  As  your 
friends  and  neighbors  feel  your  love, 
they  will  want  to  know  more  about 
the  Church. 

All  three  of  these  ways  are  part  of 
the  referral  program  as  you  arrange  for 
the  missionaries  to  teach  the  interested 
persons.  When  you  find  interested 
persons  either  by  personal  contact,  over 
the  telephone,  or  by  correspondence, 
bring  them  into  your  home,  preferably 
in  a  group  and  ask  the  missionaries  in 
to  give  them  the  discussions.  If  they 
are  out  of  the  area,  have  your  bishop 
give  you  the  name  and  address  of 
the  nearest  stake  or  mission  to  where  the 
interested  person  lives  and  send  the 
referral  to  the  stake  or  mission  presi- 
dent together  with  details  of  how  you 
secured  the  name  and  other  pertinent 
information. 

Let  me  elaborate  on  the  three  ways 
you  can  find  persons  who  want  to  know 
more  about  the  Church,  by  giving  you  a 
few  interesting  examples: 

First,  ask  the  golden  questions  as  you 
meet  people  personally  or  over  the  tele- 
phone or  through  the  mail.  I  have 
asked  the  golden  questions  hundreds  of 
times,  and  I  have  never  embarrassed 
myself  or  the  person  I  have  asked.  A 
few  weeks  ago  I  was  registering  in  a 
motel  in  Raleigh,  North  Carolina.  I 
asked  the  golden  questions  of  the  young 
man  at  the  desk.  He  was  not  inter- 
ested, but  the  young  man  standing  be- 
hind him  overheard  our  conversation. 
He  had  been  to  Salt  Lake  City,  was 
impressed,  and  wanted  to  know  more.  I 
told  him  we  had  missionaries  in  Raleigh, 
and  he  gave  me  his  name  and  address. 
He  was  very  interested  in  having  the 
missionaries  call  and  tell  him  more 
about  the  Church.  I  immediately 
turned  this  golden  contact  over  to  the 
missionaries. 

A  bishop's  wife  in  Atlanta,  Georgia, 
wanted  to  do  missionary  work  but  didn't 
know  how  or  when  she  could  find  the 
time  and  still  take  care  of  her  young 
family.  The  missionaries  suggested  that 
she  telephone  proselyte,  ask  the  golden 


questions  over  the  telephone  from  her 
own  home  in  the  evening  after  the 
children  were  in  bed.  She  told  me  that 
the  missionaries  showed  her  how  and 
that  it  was  thrilling  and  most  reward- 
ing and  not  embarrassing.  She  has 
found  many  interested  persons  for  the 
missionaries  to  teach. 

During  the  last  year,  thousands  of 
letters  have  been  written  asking  the 
golden  questions.  Many  have  responded, 
asking  that  the  missionaries  call  on 
them,  others  have  asked  for  literature 
or  the  Home  Study  guide — discussions 
by  mail.  Recently  a  woman  from 
Oceola,  Iowa,  wrote  us — "I  am  so  glad 
that  you  are  sending  me  these  discus- 
sions. I  thank  you.  Would  it  be  too 
much  to  ask  you  to  send  me  more  of 
Joseph  Smith's  works?" 

Now  the  second  way  of  finding  inter- 
ested persons  is  by  taking  your  friends 
and  neighbors  to  church  meetings 
and  socials.  In  Bowling  Green,  Ken- 
tucky, the  Relief  Society  needed  an 
organist  The  president  asked  a  non- 
member  friend  to  help  them  out.  She 
replied  she  would  be  glad  to,  and  before 
long  she  became  interested,  was  taught 
the  gospel  by  the  missionaries  and  was 
baptized. 

In  the  Southern  States  Mission  a 
young  girl  was  walking  home  with  a 
friend  and  began  humming,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints."  Her  friend  said, 
"My  that's  a  beautiful  melody.  What 
is  it?"  The  girl  told  her  about  it  and 
made  a  date  to  take  her  to  a  church 
service.  After  attending  a  few  times 
she  arranged  for  the  missionaries  to 
teach  her  family.  The  family  have  all 
been  baptized  and  are  happy,  doing 
their  part  in  building  the  kingdom. 

I  mentioned  living  the  gospel  as  the 
third  way  to  find  interested  persons. 
About  ten  days  ago  I  was  showing  a 
man  and  his  wife  from  Iowa  around 
Temple  Square.  They  were  very  inter- 
ested and  particularly  so  when  Brother 
Alexander  Schreiner  took  an  active  in- 
terest in  them,  showing  them  the  organ 
and  how  it  is  played.  Brother  Schreiner 
really  went  the  extra  mile.  I  asked 
them  if  they  knew  any  members  of  our 
Church  in  Iowa.  They  replied,  yes,  a 
wonderful  family.  Recently  when  a 
friend  of  theirs  had  a  baby,  this  fam- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


34 

Friday,  October  4 

ily  took  the  children  of  the  woman 
who  was  having  the  baby  into  their 
home  while  the  mother  was  in  the 
hospital.  Both  Brother  Schreiner  and 
the  Iowa  family  were  evidencing  their 
love  of  their  fellow  men.  These  inci- 
dents have  been  an  important  factor 
in  interesting  this  couple.  They  ex- 
pressed a  desire  to  know  more  about 
the  Church. 

A  short  time  ago  while  having  dinner 
in  a  New  York  restaurant,  we  asked  our 
waiter,  a  very  fine  man,  the  golden 
questions.  He  replied  enthusiastically 
that  he  had  been  to  Utah  and  Cali- 
fornia and  had  met  several  Latter-day 
Saint  families,  was  very  much  impressed 
with  their  way  of  life,  and  would  like 
to  know  more  about  the  Church.  He 
gave  us  his  address  in  Brooklyn  and 
seemed  anxious  to  have  the  mission- 
aries call  at  his  home  and  give  him  and 
his  family  the  discussions.  We  promptly 
gave  this  good  referral  to  the  mission 
president  in  New  York. 

Most  of  us  have  had  unusual  experi- 
ences with  people  becoming  interested 
and  wanting  to  know  more  about  the 
Church.  The  Lord  has  said,  "Be  ye 
strong  from  henceforth;  fear  not  for  the 
kingdom  is  yours."  (D&C  38:15.)  So 
let's  not  fear  henceforth — ask  the  golden 
questions,  take  your  friends  and  neigh- 
bors to  Church  meetings  and  socials, 
and  live  the  gospel.  As  you  do  these 
things,  you  will  find  many  persons 
who  are  interested  in  knowing  more 
about  the  Church,  and  you  will  be  a 
missionary  within  the  meaning  of  the 
prophet's  admonition — Every  Member 
a  Missionary. 


First  Day 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is 
great  in  the  sight  of  God";  (Ibid., 
18:10.)  And  again  the  Lord  has  said: 
"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto 
this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of 
my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me!"  (Ibid., 
18:15-16.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  en- 
gaged in  building  the  kingdom.  I  know 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  The  gospel  has  been  restored 
in  its  fulness,  and  it  is  our  duty  and 
great  opportunity  to  share  it  with  others. 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  great  prophet, 
and  David  O.  McKay  is  a  great  prophet. 
May  we  sustain  our  prophet  in  every 
way. 

Yes,  the  Every  Member  a  Missionary 
program  is  inspired  and  is  effective. 
May  we  get  the  vision  of  two  million 
missionaries  bringing  souls  into  the 
kingdom,  and  may  we  feel  the  joy, 
happiness,  and  salvation  that  comes 
from  active  missionary  work,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  missionary  to  whom  we  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards. 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brothers  and  sisters  and  friends  of  the 
air  audience: 

Today  we  remember  with  deep  affec- 
tion our  beloved  leader  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
and  from  his  stirring  sermon  last  April 
conference,  we  can  still  hear  his  earnest 
voice  saying: 

"I  believe  with  all  my  heart  and  soul 
that  the  solution  to  our  problems  here 
upon  this  earth  today  and  tomorrow  is 
to  be  found  in  the  knowledge  and  ap- 


preciation of  man's  relationship  to  God, 
his  dependence  upon  God,  and  his 
obedience  to  God's  laws. 

"There  is  absolutely  nothing  of  such 
great  worth  to  man  as  to  know  God." 

In  my  childhood,  we  had  mottoes 
hanging  on  our  walls  sometimes  em- 
broidered, sometimes  painted,  these  for 
decoration  and  for  inspiration.  One  I 
remember  read:  "What  is  home  without 
a  mother."  From  my  infancy,  every  time 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


35 


I  entered  the  house,  I  called,  "Mama," 
over  and  over  until  I  found  her.  Totally 
satisfied  in  the  security  her  presence 
afforded,  I  ran  again  to  play.  Just  to 
know  she  was  there!   That  was  all. 

When  I  was  eleven,  Mother  passed 
away  and  from  my  aching  heart  came 
numerous  times,  "Mama,"  as  I  entered 
the  house,  but  there  were  only  mocking 
echoes  of  emptiness.  Later  the  void  was 
filled  when  our  stepmother  gave  pres- 
ence to  the  home  and  again  through  my 
youth,  I  called  and  found  my  security 
in  the  welcome  answer,  "I  am  here,  son." 

It  was  the  same  red  brick  house 
through  the  days  of  security  and  the 
days  of  desolation,  the  same  shelf-filled 
pantry,  the  same  wood  stove  and  water 
tank,  the  same  parlor  with  its  rag 
carpet  and  the  same  old  clock  ticking 
away  the  hours  and  days  and  years,  but 
stability  and  sureness  and  peace  were 
there,  for  Mother  was  there,  and  se- 
curity was  there,  and  the  house  breathed 
belongingness. 

On  Labor  Day  2,000  young  people 
converged  on  the  little  resort  town  of 
Seaside,  Oregon,  repeating  their  last 
year's  devastation,  smashing  windows, 
ripping  street  and  shop  signs  down,  and 
requiring  100  police  plus  National 
Guardsmen  to  quell  the  rioting,  and  I 
wondered  if  these  2,000  homes  from 
which  they  came  were  normal  ones  with 
a  mother  at  home  who  could  answer, 
"Yes,  dear,  I  am  here." 

Again,  the  news  reported  30,000  teen- 
agers rioting  on  a  California  beach, 
filling  beer  cans  and  bottles  with  sand 
and  throwing  them  at  police,  boys 
stripping  girls  and  sex  indulgence  com- 
mon and  unabashed.  And  we  wondered 
how  many  of  these  30,000  fathers  were 
furnishing  cars  and  money  for  their 
children  to  vacation  at  resorts;  for  beer 
and  brutishness,  and  who  provided  the 
gasoline,  and  who  paid  the  fines? 

And,  we  wondered  how  many  of  the 
30,000  mothers  were  making  homes  and 
how  many  making  money.  How  can 
mothers  justify  their  abandonment  of 
home  when  they  are  needed  so  much 
by  their  offspring?  Rationalization  must 
take  over  as  they  justify  themselves  in 
leaving  home  and  children. 

Of  course,  there  are  some  mothers  who 
must  work  out  to  support  their  children, 


but  let  every  working  mother  honestly 
weigh  the  matter  and  be  sure  the  Lord 
approves  before  she  rushes  her  babies 
off  to  the  nursery,  her  children  off  to 
school,  her  husband  off  to  work,  and 
herself  off  to  her  employment.  Let  her 
be  certain  that  she  is  not  rationalizing 
herself  away  from  her  children  merely 
to  provide  for  them  greater  material 
things.  Let  her  analyze  well  before 
she  permits  her  precious  ones  to  come 
home  to  an  empty  house  where  their 
plaintive  cry,  "Mother,"  finds  no  lov- 
ing answer. 

Do  not  these  absentee  mothers  and 
millions  of  approving  fathers  know  that 
basic  attitudes  towards  standards,  mor- 
ality, the  Church,  and  God  are  devel- 
oped in  the  family  circle  and  are  quite 
well  set  while  they  are  still  small 
children? 

It  is  said:  "Give  me  a  child  until  he 
is  seven  and  then  do  with  him  what 
you  will."  These  first  years  are  so  vital. 

The  Lord  said:  "My  sheep  hear  my 
voice  . .  ."  (John  10:27).  So  do  the  little 
ones  respond  to  their  own  mothers.  The 
maid,  the  neighbor,  the  sister,  the  grand- 
mother may  clothe  and  feed  and  diaper 
the  child,  but  no  one  can  take  the  place 
of  mother.  This  is  impressed  upon  us 
by  the  story  of  the  six-year-old  who  got 
lost  from  his  mother  in  a  large  super- 
market and  began  to  call  frantically, 
"Martha,  Martha." 

When  the  mother  was  found  and  they 
were  reunited,  she  said:  "Honey,  you 
should  not  call  me  Martha,  I  am 
'Mother'  to  you." 

To  which  the  little  fellow  rejoined: 
"Yes,  I  know,  but  the  store  was  full  of 
mothers,  and  I  wTanted  mine." 

Children  need  security,  special  love, 
and  to  be  wanted. 

At  a  distant  conference,  my  plane 
brought  me  to  the  city  many  hours 
early.  The  stake  president  met  me  at 
the  airport  and  took  me  to  his  home 
and,  having  important  work  to  do,  ex- 
cused himself  and  returned  to  his  work. 
With  the  freedom  of  the  house,  I  spread 
my  papers  on  the  kitchen  table  and  be- 
gan my  work.  His  wife  was  upstairs 
sewing.  In  mid-afternoon,  there  came 
an  abrupt  entry  from  the  front  door, 
and  a  little  fellow  came  running  in, 
surprised  to  see  me,  but  we  became 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Uriday,  October  4 

friends.  Then  he  ran  through  the 
rooms  calling,  "Mother,"  and  she  an- 
swered from  upstairs,  "What  is  it, 
darling?"  and  his  answer  was,  "Oh, 
nothing."   He  went  out  to  play. 

A  little  later  another  voice  came  in 
the  front  door  calling,  "Mother,  Moth- 
er." He  put  his  schoolbooks  on  the 
table  and  explored  the  house  until  the 
reassuring  answer  came  from  upstairs 
again,  "Here  I  am,  darling,"  and  the 
second  one  was  satisfied  and  said, 
"OK"  and  went  to  play.  Another  half 
hour  and  the  door  opened  again  and  a 
young  teenager  moved  in,  dropped  her 
books  and  called,  "Mother."  And  the 
answer  from  upstairs,  "Yes,  darling," 
seemed  to  satisfy,  and  the  young  girl 
became  acquainted  with  me,  then  began 
practising  her  music  lesson.  None  of 
the  three  had  gone  upstairs. 

Still  another  voice  later  called, 
"Mother,"  as  she  unloaded  her  high 
school  books.  And,  again  the  sweet 
answer,  "I  am  up  here  sewing,  darling," 
seemed  to  reassure  her.  We  became 
acquainted,  and  she  tripped  up  the 
stairs  to  tell  her  mother  the  happen- 
ings of  the  day  in  a  sweet  mother- 
daughter  relationship.  Home!  Mother! 
Security!  Just  to  know  Mother  was 
home.  All  was  well. 

A  child  is  happy  if  he  feels  that  he 
is  wanted  and  enjoyed  by  his  parents. 
He  needs  to  feel  that  his  parents  will  be 
there,  especially  in  a  crisis. 

This  mother,  too,  could  have  had  a 
job.  Her  children  also  could  use  more 
things  her  wages  could  provide.  She 
also  could  have  rationalized  that  two 
salaries  could  give  her  children  more 
advantages,  more  outings,  travel,  and 
vacations,  more  clothes,  gifts,  and  lux- 
uries. But,  this  mother  knew  well  that 
a  child  needs  a  mother  available  more 
than  all  the  things  which  money 
can  buy. 

The  Parents  Magazine  says:  "The 
feeling  of  security  is  the  core  and  foun- 
dation for  good  mental  health. 

"Most  of  the  married  women  over  35 
in  the  labor  force  (says  this  authority) 
are  working  not  because  their  families 
really  'need  the  money,'  but  in  order 
to  maintain  a  higher  standard  of  living, 
get  away  from  some  housework,  and 


first  Day 

lead,  as  they  suppose,  a  more  interest- 
ing and  richer  life." 

A  prominent  judge  listed  the  causes  of 
juvenile  delinquency: 

First,  destructive  toys  and  games  such 
as  guns  and  other  symbols  of  violence. 
Second,  working  mothers;  and  third, 
fathers  who  work  two  shifts,  absenting 
themselves  from  the  home  except  to 
eat  and  sleep. 

His  long  list  of  causes  ended  with  this: 
Lack  of  religious  training  and  discipline 
in  the  home  and  schools,  and  lack  of 
love  in  the  home.  My  reference  is 
Judge  Jacob  M.  Braude  of  the  Circuit 
Court  of  Cook  County  (Chicago), 
Illinois. 

These  lacks  were  inherent  in  the 
parents,  but  it  was  the  children  who 
suffered. 

Twenty-four  million  women  in  the 
United  States  work  outside  the  home. 
This  is  one-third  of  all  in  the  total 
labor  force,  and  80%  of  them  have 
living  husbands. 

In  1890,  only  5.5%  of  the  wives  under 
35  and  living  with  husbands  were 
working.  By  1957,  it  was  27.7%  and 
now  it  is  about  a  third  of  those  wives 
between  18  and  24. 

In  the  labor  force  are  about  2.5  mil- 
lion women  whose  children  are  under 
six,  and  5.4  million  with  children  under 
twelve  years  of  age.  Think  of  it:  a 
possible  twelve  to  fifteen  million  chil- 
dren without  a  mother  through  crucial 
hours!  Of  these  about  400,000  children 
under  twelve  years  of  age  must  care 
for  themselves  entirely  while  their 
mothers  work.  One-third  of  all  mothers 
with  children  under  eighteen  are  in  paid 
employment.  My  statistics  come  from 
the  Children's  Bureau  of  the  US  De- 
partment of  Health  Education  and  Wel- 
fare and  other  dependable  sources.  This 
means  that  in  this  country,  one  child 
in  13  under  12  must  look  out  for  him- 
self. In  the  10-11  year  old  group,  the 
ratio  is  one  in  five  without  care  while 
the  mother  is  at  work. 

It  is  shocking!  Nearly  one-third  of  all 
our  young  matrons,  18  to  24,  arc  break- 
ing the  law  of  God  in  not  bearing  chil- 
dren, or  if  they  are  having  children, 
are  they  neglecting  the  helpless  little 
ones? 

President  McKay  said,   "The  more 


ELDER  SPENC 

woman  becomes  like  man,  the  less  he 
will  respect  her.  Civilization  weakens  as 
man's  estimate  of  woman  lessens." 

We  are  told  that  the  average  age 
when  women  cease  bearing  children  is 
about  26;  yet  in  these  vital  years,  nearly 
one  of  every  three  is  working  outside 
her  home.  When  such  masses  of 
mothers  are  employed  out,  what  may 
we  expect  from  the  offspring? 

How  nearly  perfect  can  a  mother  be 
who  rushes  in  the  morning  to  get 
everybody  off  and  settled  for  the  day, 
herself  included,  then  returns  weary 
after  a  hard  day  of  employment  to  a 
tired  husband  who  has  had  a  hard 
day  and  to  children  and  youth  with 
problems,  and  then  to  her  homemaking, 
cooking,  cleaning,  and  then  to  a  full 
social  calendar.  From  such  homes  come 
many  conflicts,  marital  problems,  and 
divorces,  and  delinquent  children.  Few 
people  in  trouble  ever  ascribe  their 
marital  conflicts  to  these  first  causes, 
but  blame  each  other  for  the  problems 
which  were  born  and  nurtured  in 
strained  environments.  Certainly  the 
harmonious  relationship  of  father  and 
mother  and  the  emotional  climate 
prevailing  between  parents  give  sound- 
ness and  security  to  children. 

President  Belle  S.  Spafford  speaking 
to  her  world  of  Relief  Society  mothers 
said: 

"Children  should  be  cherished  with 
the  strongest  bonds  of  affection;  ...  No 
effort  should  be  too  much,  no  sacrifice 
too  great  to  protect  them  from  evil  and 
preserve  them  in  righteousness.  .  .  .  The 
love  and  the  sanctity  of  the  home  should 
be  zealously  safeguarded.  .  .  ." 

And  she  speaks  of  mothers'  obliga- 
tions— 

".  .  .  to  make  all  else  in  life  sub- 
servient to  the  well-being  of  our  homes 

and  families. 

***** 

"Always  in  the  Church,  people  have 
been  admonished  to  marry  in  the  House 
of  the  Lord,  to  establish  homes,  and 
bear  and  rear  children  in  righteousness." 

Brigham  Young  says: 

"It  is  the  calling  of  the  wife  and 
mother  .  .  .  (to  tie)  her  offspring  to 
herself  with  a  love  that  is  stronger 
than    death    for    an    everlasting  in- 


l  W.  KIMBALL  37 

heritance.  .  .  ."  (Discourses  of  Brigham 
Young,  p.  198.) 

In  this  important  city  crime  has  in- 
creased three  times  faster  than  it  did 
in  the  nation  during  1962,  said  our 
local  newspaper.  And  crime  in  the  past 
five  years  increased  four  times  faster 
than  population,  four  serious  crimes 
per  minute  recorded  on  the  crime  clock. 

One  authority  gave  us:  "The  more  the 
parents  approve  of  each  other,  the  more 
the  child  will  be  welcome,  — the  most 
important  single  factor  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  child  is  the  emotional 
climate  prevailing  between  his  parents." 

Are  music  and  dancing  lessons  and 
camps  and  clothes  justified  when  it  may 
mean  the  sacrifice  of  the  home  and 
mother  on  the  altar  of  employment? 

One  girl  said,  "I  really  don't  want 
to  go  to  the  girls'  camp.  I'd  rather  stay 
home  with  Mother,  but  Mother  is  not 
home  to  stay  with."  Are  we  glamorizing 
out-of-home  activities  for  our  children 
when  they  should  be  home  helping  or 
off  to  work  themselves? 

Absenteeism  of  mothers  is  often  linked 
with  idle  youth — delinquent  youth. 
When  we  read  of  the  recent  Labor  Day 
escapades  by  tens  of  thousands  of  high 
school  and  college  young  people  on  their 
mass  invasions  of  resort  towns,  we 
wonder  again:  Why  are  they  permitted 
leisure  till  they  become  sick  with  bore- 
dom? Home  is  drab  so  they  resort  to 
destructiveness  and  immorality. 

One  fudge  said:  "These  mad  vacations 
make  their  biggest  appeal  to  youngsters 
who  have  too  little  to  do.  .  .  .  We 
never  have  any  trouble  with  kids  who 
have  real  interests,  real  hobbies,  a 
radio  ham,  or  a  real  athlete." 

The  idle  generation!  Hours  each  day 
and  nothing  to  do.  Saturdays  and 
nothing  to  do.  Three  long  months  of 
school  vacation  and  nothing  to  do.  No 
one  has  found  a  truer  adage  than:  "The 
idle  brain  is  the  devil's  workshop." 

Another  judge  states  that  "Too  many 
kids  are  loafing.  Parents  do  not  make 
children  get  jobs.  And,  this  helps  them 
into  trouble  .  .  .  there  is  an  alarming 
lack  of  employment  among  our  young 
people  .  .  .  and  idleness  among  those 
who  come  before  me.  .  .  ." 

He  is  not  talking  about  the  pallid, 
spindly  urchin,  working  twelve  hours  a 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

day  in  coal  mines  but  of  the  hulking 
youth  sitting  around  while  his  hard- 
working, doting  parents  support  him. 

It  is  foolish  to  expect  an  energetic 
exuberant  youth  to  live  normally  when 
he  has  his  free  time  largely  to  himself 
including  three  idle  months  of  summer 
vacation.    I  quote  him  further, 

"As  I  see  young  people  of  what  I 
consider  an  employable  age  sitting 
around  drive-ins  or  malt  shops,  on  park 
benches,  or  at  the  beaches,  cruising 
around  in  cars  or  hanging  around  on 
the  street  comers  at  all  hours  of  the 
day  and  the  night,  I  am  amazed  at  their 
ability  to  stay  out  of  trouble  as  well 
as  they  do  .  .  .  idleness  is  a  prime  factor 
in  most  juvenile  misbehavior.  .  .  ." 

He  continues:  "I  find  the  average 
parent  of  the  average  employable  but 
unemployed  youngster  to  be  weak,  over- 
protective,  and  overindulgent.  Both  he 
and  his  wife  work  to  afford  their  child 
the  niceties  of  life  which  they  now  con- 
sider necessities.  All  the  comforts  of 
home  plus  a  car  and  a  gasoline  credit 
card  " 

This  judge  says  these  parents  are  a 
generation  of  well-intentioned  ones 
rearing  a  generation  of  sloths — Judge 
Robert  Gardner  of  the  Juvenile  Court 
of  Santa  Ana,  California. 

A  woman  who  had  not  been  able  to 
hold  a  job  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  she 
was  well-trained  and  highly  educated 
explained:  "Oh,  it's  not  odd  at  all. 
My  parents  never  expected  me  to  work, 
and  for  that  reason  I  never  expected 
to  either."  She  seemed  to  feel  un- 
abashed, and  that  such  was  reason 
enough. 

The  judge  proceeds:  "This  type  of  par- 
ent blindly  accepts  Junior's  plaint:  'I 
can't  find  a  job.' 

"Can't  find  a  job!  Well,  Junior,  I 
have  news  for  you!  These  are  boom 
times.  A  whole  generation  of  us  grew 
up  during  the  depression  when  there 
were  no  jobs,  but  we  found  jobs  any- 
way. Oh,  they  weren't  good  jobs,  but 
they  were  jobs.  There  were  always 
jobs — mean,  disagreeable,  back-breaking 
jobs.  And  many  of  these  jobs  didn't 
pay  very  much  and  they  were  hard  and 
they  were  long  hours  and  they  were 
not  desirable." 

Do  youth  look  for  work  in  the  cotton 


First  Day 

fields,  in  the  beet  fields,  in  the  hay 
fields,  the  jobs  that  are  taken  by  itiner- 
ant workers  brought  from  Mexico  and 
other  foreign  lands? 

Some  judges  give  arrested  youth  a 
choice  to  get  a  job  within  thirty  days 
or  be  locked  up,  and  seldom  have  had 
to  lock  up  any.  If  the  alternative  is  un- 
pleasant enough,  somehow  Junior  finds 
employment. 

To  this  philosophy,  there  are  re- 
joinders from  many  sources  which  cry 
there  are  not  enough  jobs  to  go  around 
and  that  a  job  for  a  youngster  means 
a  job  lost  to  the  head  of  a  family.  And 
the  answer  of  the  judge  to  this  is,  "Get 
women  out  of  the  factories  and  put 
them  back  into  the  home  where  they 
belong  .  .  .  cooking,  sewing,  cleaning 
house  and  doing  the  traditional  woman's 
work.  It  would  do  both  for  them  and 
their  neglected  youngsters  a  world 
of  good." 

If  a  few  million  of  the  working 
mothers  who  need  not  work  were  to  go 
home  to  their  families,  there  might  be 
employment  for  men  now  unemployed 
and  part  and  full-time  work  for  youth 
who  ought  to  help  in  family  finances 
and  who  need  occupation  for  their 
abundant  energy. 

How  many  children  today  contribute 
toward  the  family  living?  Parents  per- 
mit the  youth  to  idle  away  their  time. 

"Can't  get  a  job,"  they  say.  Why, 
bless  your  souls,  the  world  is  crying 
for  helpers.  Have  we  spoiled  our  chil- 
dren paying  them  for  every  effort?  I 
heard  a  fifteen-year-old  complaining  be- 
cause he  received  only  sixty  cents 
an  hour. 

"What  can  we  do?"  they  cry,  "Where 
can  we  go?"  Listen,  youth,  go  home, 
roll  up  your  sleeves;  pick  cotton,  hoe 
the  corn,  thin  the  beets.  Yes,  before 
and  after  school  and  Saturdays  and  va- 
cation days!  It  won't  hurt  you  to  store 
your  ball  and  bat  and  hiking  togs.  Hang 
the  storm  windows,  paint  the  fence, 
wash  the  car,  pick  the  fruit,  mow  the 
lawn,  repair  the  screen,  plant  a  garden, 
cultivate  flowers,  trim  the  trees. 

As  we  read  of  delinquency  and  crime, 
2,000,000  serious  crimes  in  this  land  in 
a  year,  and  as  we  note  many  are  com- 
mitted by  girls  and  boys,  we  ask  our- 
selves what  is  the  cause  and  what  are 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


39 


the  cures?  In  an  adequate  survey  it 
was  learned  that  a  majority  of  youth 
wish  responsibility  and  will  thrive  on  it. 

"What  can  we  do?"  they  ask  again. 

Do  the  shopping,  work  in  the  hos- 
pital, help  the  neighbors  and  the  church 
custodian,  wash  dishes,  vacuum  the 
floors,  make  the  beds,  get  the  meals, 
learn  to  sew. 

Read  good  books,  repair  the  furni- 
ture, make  something  needed  in  the 
home,  clean  the  house,  press  your 
clothes,  rake  the  leaves,  shovel  the 
snow,  peddle  papers,  do  "baby  sitting" 
free  for  neighbor  mothers  who  must 
work,  become  an  apprentice. 

J.  Edgar  Hoover  of  the  FBI  said,  "Our 
youthful  delinquency  is  a  problem 
which  strikes  practically  every  home  in 
America.  It  is  something  to  which  every 
parent  should  give  the  deepest  con- 
sideration and  the  said  responsibility 
for  youth  law  infraction  today  lies  more 
on  the  doorstep  of  the  adult  than  it 
does  on  the  youth.  In  the  majority  of 
instances  the  story  of  juvenile  delin- 
quency is  the  story  of  shattered  homes 
where  parents  are  neglectful,  indifferent, 
and  fail  to  exercise  the  proper  degree 
of  discipline." 

One  parent  wrote  to  youth:  "Your 
parents  do  not  owe  you  entertainment; 
your  villages  do  not  owe  you  recreation 
facilities;  the  world  does  not  owe  you  a 
living;  you  owe  the  world;  you  owe  it 
your  time,  your  energy,  your  talents, 
yourself.  In  plain  simple  words,  grow 
up,  get  out  of  your  dream  world;  de- 
velop your  backbone,  a  backbone  not  a 
wishbone,  and  start  acting  like  a  man 
or  a  lady.  .  .  ." 

Lawmakers  in  their  over-eagerness  to 
protect  the  child  have  legislated  until 
the  pendulum  has  swung  to  the  other 
extreme.  But  no  law  prohibits  most 
work  suggested  above,  and  parents  can 
make  work. 

President  David  O.  McKay  said:  "We 
are  living  in  an  age  of  gadgetry  which 
threatens  to  produce  a  future  genera- 
tion of  softness.  Flabbiness  of  character 
more  than  flabbiness  of  muscle  lies  at 
the  root  of  most  of  the  problems  facing 
our  American  youth." 

Are  these  iconoclasts  from  normal 
homes  with  normal  fathers  and  moth- 
ers?    Or,   are   those  parents  income 


producers  who  satisfy  their  every  selfish 
desire  for  social  life,  comforts,  golf, 
parties,  travel,  drinking  at  the  expense 
of  their  children? 

Do  the  families  of  these  window 
smashers  kneel  in  prayer  night  and 
morning  before  these  depredations?  Do 
they  have  family  evenings,  family  pic- 
nics, vacations,  and  entertainment  to- 
gether? Do  these  parents  of  such 
hoodlums  exercise  discipline  in  the 
home  or  are  the  children  emancipated 
from  restraint,  from  duties,  and  from 
controls? 

To  slow  down  this  ever-increasing 
rate  of  juvenile  delinquency,  there  is  a 
growing  cry:  "We  must  have  more  de- 
tention homes  and  reformatories.  We 
need  more  public  money  appropriated 
for  better  facilities,  more  highly  trained 
specialists,  social  workers,  psychologists 
and  psychiatrists.  We  need  larger  jails, 
more  police." 

Certainly,  it  must  be  apparent  that 
all  this  is  but  an  attempted  control  of  a 
malady  of  epidemic  proportions.  Have 
the  experts  failed?  Isn't  it  time  to  come 
back  to  fundamentals?  "We  need  more 
money,"  they  say,  but  we  have  spent  in 
the  last  decade  $78  billion  on  ele- 
mentary and  high  schools  for  the 
children,  yet  delinquency  increases; 
$110  billion  on  cars;  $127  billion  for 
recreation,  and  still  immorality,  hood- 
lumism,  sadism,  and  vandalism  grow 
apace,  and  to  make  it  worse,  $180  bil- 
lion in  cosmetics,  tobacco,  and  alcohol. 
No — money  is  not  the  answer!  Surely 
we  must  realize  that  an  ounce  of  pre- 
vention is  worth  tons  of  cure. 

The  Lord  has  indicated  long  ago  the 
perfect  pattern  of  prevention.  He  has 
organized  the  family  in  a  home  with 
unified  pursuits.  It  takes  no  magician 
nor  social  authority  to  know  where  the 
error  lies,  and  that  the  cure  is  preven- 
tion. With  the  home  a  sweet  religious 
one  with  discipline  and  love  and 
parental  bliss  and  sweet  parent-child 
relationships,  there  would  be  few,  if 
any,  prodigals.  Reformatories  and  cor- 
rection institutions  could  close;  social 
agencies  could  lock  their  doors;  jails 
would  have  few  prisoners,  and  war  be 
outlawed. 

All  this  could  come  by  the  building 
of  the  homes  of  the  people  into  spiritual 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  4 

fortresses.  If  fathers  would  give  them- 
selves to  their  families  and  mothers 
come  home  from  employment  and  high 
society  to  conserve  the  smaller  incomes 
and  to  be  real  mothers,  then  the  word 
delinquency  would  cease  to  terrify  us. 

May  we  organize  our  homes,  disci- 
pline our  children,  and  create  nations 
of  homes  such  as  our  Heavenly  Father 
has  planned,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

In  behalf  of  all  who  have  listened  to 
the  singing  during  the  General  Confer- 
ence sessions  today — the  General  Au- 
thorities, the  audience  here  in  the 
Tabernacle,  and  the  large  radio  and 
television  audience — we  express  appre- 
ciation and  gratitude  to  these  Singing 
Mothers  for  the  beautiful  music,  in- 
spiring messages.  With  all  my  heart  I 
say,  Sister  Jepperson  and  mothers,  God 
bless  you! 

The  Saturday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  direct  by  numerous  radio  and 
television  stations,  and  recorded  for 
transmission  on  Sunday  morning  at  10 
o'clock,  Eastern  Daylight  Time  (9:00 
Eastern  Standard  Time),  to  many  tele- 
vision stations  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
United  States.  Both  sessions  of  our 
Conference  today,  and  Saturday  and 
Sunday,  will  be  rebroadcast  over  KSL 
Radio  the  following  morning  starting  at 
one  o'clock  and  will  be  heard  in  many 
parts  of  the  United  States  and  in  the 


First  Day 

world,  including  Canada,  Mexico,  Alas- 
ka, and  in  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 
A  delayed  television  release  will  also 
take  the  Saturday  morning  session  of 
Conference  to  viewers  over  three  tele- 
vision stations  in  Hawaii.  A  video  tape 
will  be  flown  from  the  Mainland  and 
broadcast  Sunday  morning  in  Hawaii. 

A  special  meeting  under  the  direction 
of  the  Genealogical  Society  will  be 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at 
7:00  o'clock.  Those  requested  to  attend 
are  stake  presidencies,  bishoprics,  stake 
and  ward  genealogical  workers;  and 
anyone  else  interested  in  genealogical 
work  is  invited. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare  Agricultural 
Meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  tomorrow 
morning  at  7:30  o'clock.  Stake  presi- 
dencies, bishoprics,  agricultural  repre- 
sentatives from  all  stakes,  and  all  others 
interested  in  agriculture  are  invited  to 
attend  this  meeting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "The  Lord  Bless 
Thee  and  Keep  Thee,"  conducted  by  Dr. 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

After  the  benediction  by  Elder  Israel 
I.  Bentley,  formerly  president  of  the 
Northern  Mexican  Mission,  the  general 
sessions  of  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday 
morning. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "The  Lord  Bless  Thee  And 
Keep  Thee." 

Elder  Israel  Bentley,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Northern  Mexican  Mission, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday 
morning,  October  5th,  at  10:00  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday 
morning,  October  5,  1963  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting.  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, was  the  accompanist. 

President  David  O.  McKay  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  opened 


the  meeting  with  the  following  intro- 
ductory remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  all  present  this  morning  in  the 
Tabernacle,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
to  the  vast  television  and  radio  audience 
we  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  this,  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


41 


Third  Session  of  the  133rd  Semi-Annua! 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Brother  Richard  P.  Condie, 
with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ, 
will  open  these  services  by  singing, 
"God  of  our  Fathers,  Whose  Almighty 
Hand." 

Following  the  singing  the  invocation 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Merrill  A.  Nel- 
son, president  of  the  Kearns  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "God  Of  Our  Fathers,  Whose  Al- 
mighty Hand." 

Elder  Merrill  A.  Nelson,  president  of 
the  Kearns  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Merrill  A.  Nelson. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "Sing  Unto  God  With  Un- 
measured Praise."  Following  the  singing 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  selec- 
tion, "Sing  Unto  God  With  Un- 
measured Praise." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  President,  and  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters: 

For  more  than  a  third  of  a  century 
it  has  been  my  privilege  to  speak  to 
many  of  you  many  times  through  my 
association  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  its  remarkably  long  series  of  broad- 
casts and  through  other  organizations 
and  activities.  But  I  feel  a  weighty 
responsibility  this  morning  in  speaking 
to  you  of  some  things  that  are  close  to 
my  heart  and  important  to  my  life,  and 
which  are  vitally  a  part  of  the  prin- 
ciples and  convictions  of  the  Church  to 
which  I  have  the  honor  to  belong — The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  sometimes  inaccurately  referred 
to  as  the  "Mormon"  Church,  whose  head 
and  lawgiver  is  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  the  Christ,  who  with  his  Father — 
the  Father  of  us  all — is  the  foundation 
of  our  faith. 

It  is  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  our 
Savior  whom  we  worship.  This  places 
us  on  common  ground  with  all  sincere 
worshiping  Christians,  through  our  be- 
lief in  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  It  places  us  on  common  ground 
with  all  other  men  also  who  believe  in 
God  the  Father  and  Creator  of  us  all, 
in  whose  image,  as  scripture  testifies, 
men  are  made. 


Now  since  we  have  this  literal  rela- 
tionship with  our  Father  in  heaven  and 
his  Son,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  the  matter 
of  communication  between  God  and 
man,  between  a  loving  Father  and  his 
children,  becomes  a  matter  of  primary 
importance — for  life  is  a  search  for  all 
of  us — a  search  for  its  purpose  and 
meaning — a  search  for  the  answers  to 
questions,  to  problems — answers  that 
will  satisfy  the  yearnings  of  our  hearts, 
the  reaching  of  our  minds.  These  are 
answers  that  can  only  come  from  a 
divine  source. 

This  brings  us  to  the  question  of 
communication  between  God  and  man, 
between  a  loving,  all-knowing  Father 
and  his  searching,  seeking  children. 
This  communication  includes  prayer, 
inspiration,  impressions  from  the  divine 
source  upon  the  mind  of  man,  the  find- 
ings of  truth  through  earnest  seeking 
and  research,  and  also  what  is  called 
revelation,  to  which  the  ninth  Article 
of  our  Faith  refers  in  these  words:  "We 
believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all 
that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we  be- 
lieve that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

Who  knows  all  the  answers  or  any  of 
the  ultimate  answers?    Since  no  one 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

does,  they  must  come  from  continued 
revelation — from  continued  prayerful 
seeking  and  search. 

There  has  been  among  men  some 
suggestion  that  the  heavens  are  closed, 
that  scripture  is  closed;  that  God  re- 
vealed his  mind  and  will  to  his  prophets 
in  the  far  past,  but  for  some  reason  does 
not  do  so  today. 

Do  we  need  his  guidance  less  today 
than  men  once  did?  Do  we  have 
fewer  problems?  Would  a  just  and 
loving  Father  love  us  less  than  he  did 
his  children  of  the  past?  What  kind 
and  loving  father  would  fail  or  refuse 
to  respond  to  his  children  if  they  ap- 
proached him  with  urgent  need  and 
humble  hearts? 

What  gracious  and  all-wise  Admin- 
istrator of  heaven  and  earth  would  ig- 
nore the  problems  of  the  present  or 
leave  his  children  to  grope  alone 
in  life? 

The  comforting  answer  to  these  ques- 
tions is  that  the  channels  of  com- 
munication are  open;  that  our  God  and 
Father  is  still  interested  in  all  our 
affairs;  that  he  has  his  prophet  on  earth; 
that  he  gives  to  his  children  what  in  his 
wisdom  they  need  and  seek  and  are 
prepared  to  accept. 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  noth- 
ing, but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 
'Where  there  is  no  vision,  the  people 
perish."  (Prov.  29:18.) 

This  need  for  prophets  and  their  vi- 
sion— lest  the  people  perish — prompts  us 
to  quote  another  Article  of  Faith:  'We 
believe  in  the  same  organization  that 
existed  in  the  Primitive  Church  (i.e.  the 
Church  founded  by  our  Savior  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time),  viz.,  apostles, 
prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists, 
etc."  (Article  6.)  Would  not  our 
Savior's  Church  today  be  organized  as 
when  he  was  on  earth? 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  sustains  in  this  conference 
President  David  O.  McKay,  who  has 
stood  before  us  this  morning  in  his 
ninety-first  year,  in  his  kindly  wisdom 
and  far-seeing  perception;  sustains  him 
as  a  prophet  of  God  in  this  latter  day, 
with  the  same  divine  commission  that 
was  given  to  the  prophets  of  the  past. 


Second  Day 

Some  have  asked  about  our  belief  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  is  not  a  substitute  for  the 
Bible.  We  accept  the  Bible  and  use 
the  King  James  Version.  But  we  do 
not  believe  that  the  Lord  God  confined 
his  communications  to  the  people  of 
ancient  Palestine  or  to  any  place  or 
period  of  the  past.  He  has  had  prophets 
in  other  places.  The  Book  of  Mormon, 
which  supplements  the  Bible  and  is 
compatible  with  it,  is  an  account  of 
the  counsels  and  communications  of 
God,  as  is  the  Bible,  and  contains  sacred 
and  secular  history,  given  to  and  pre- 
served by  the  prophets  of  ancient  Amer- 
ica, among  whom  were  some  of  the 
ancestors  of  the  American  Indians. 

God  is  no  respecter  of  persons  and 
has  not  confined  his  communication  to 
one  part  of  his  family,  to  one  time  of 
history,  or  to  one  land. 

Now  not  only  does  our  Father  in 
heaven  communicate  by  revelation,  by 
inspiration,  but  he  reveals  truth  also 
to  earnest  searching,  seeking  men  in 
many  fields  of  truth.  Knowledge  has 
been  poured  out  upon  the  earth,  the 
evidences  of  which  are  too  numerous  to 
dwell  upon. 

And  not  only  does  he  reveal  his  will 
to  his  servants  the  prophets  and  to  sin- 
cere searching  men,  but  he  responds  to 
a  child's  simplest  prayer — the  simplest, 
sincere  desire  of  the  soul.  He  is  mind- 
ful of  every  one  of  us  in  all  our  needs, 
in  all  of  our  decisions,  in  all  our  uses 
of  life,  in  the  thoughts  of  our  inner- 
most hearts,  and  our  outermost  actions. 
And  aside  from  revelation  as  such,  there 
is  the  impression  within — the  whisper- 
ings of  the  Spirit  to  the  hearts  and  con- 
sciences of  men. 

And  not  only  do  we  need  communica- 
tion with  our  Father  in  heaven,  but  we 
need  communication  and  understanding 
with  one  another.  So  often  we  mis- 
judge men.  We  misjudge  motives;  we 
believe  rumors,  and  not  only  believe 
them,  but  sometimes  add  to  them  and 
pass  them  on.  We  sometimes  believe 
what  gossip  and  prejudice  says  of  others, 
rather  than  going  to  factual  sources  of 
information.  We  often  reach  conclu- 
sions based  on  sheer  assumptions.  "O 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


43 


mortal  men,"  said  Dante,  "be  wary  how 
ye  judge." 

Parents  need  better  communication 
with  their  children,  and  children  with 
parents.  They  need  to  counsel  and  re- 
spect each  other  and  confide  in  each 
other  and  share  with  each  other  the 
thoughts  of  their  hearts.  What  more 
important  charge  could  anyone  have  in 
life  than  to  care  for  and  nourish  and 
understand  and  teach  and  love  a  child 
whom  God  has  given?  What  greater 
loyalty  can  a  child  have  than  to  con- 
fide in  a  father  and  a  mother  with 
respect  and  love,  sharing  hopes  and 
dreams  and  plans  and  experiences.  And 
there  is  safety  in  this — safety  in  doing 
nothing  that  we  would  not  be  willing 
and  proud  to  confide  to  parents  or  to 
our  Father  in  heaven,  who  in  fact  knows 
all  things  whether  or  not  we  confide. 

There  is  safety  in  a  mother  and  a 
father  waiting  for  children  to  return 
at  whatever  hour — safety  in  these  close 
confidences. 

Husbands  and  wives  need  to  confide 
and  communicate  with  each  other  and 
not  withdraw  themselves  within  them- 
selves, but  to  keep  always  open  between 
them  a  gentle  and  frank  and  kindly 
communication. 

Those  who  don't  communicate  some- 
times sit  in  brooding  silence,  and  let 
small  things  seem  large,  and  imagine 
offenses  that  were  never  intended,  and 
misjudge  minds  and  hearts  and  motives, 
and  pull  apart  and  sever  the  most  sa- 
cred ties,  and  break  hearts  and  homes. 

There  is  so  much  of  misunderstanding 
that  could  be  cleared  with  communica- 
tion, with  talking  things  out — suspicions, 
offenses,  misjudging  motives,  much  of 
which  would  disappear  with  communi- 
cation and  the  sincere  sharing  of 
confidences  with  those  who  have  a  right 
to  expect  us  to  confide.  As  a  poet  so 
long  ago  expressed  it — 

"Not    understood.     We    move  along 
asunder, 

Our  paths  grow  wider  as  the  seasons 
creep 

Along  the  years;  we  marvel  and  we 
wonder 

Why  life  is  life,  and  then  we  fall 
asleep, 

Not  understood. 


"Not  understood.  We  gather  false  im- 
pressions 

And  hug  them  closer  as  the  years  go 

by, 

Till  virtues  often  seem  to  us  trans- 
gressions; 

And  thus  men  rise  and  fall  and  live 
and  die, 

Not  understood. 

"Not    understood.     Poor    souls  with 
stunted  vision 
Oft  measure  giants  by  their  narrow 
gauge. 

The  poisoned  shafts  of  falsehood  and 
derision 

Are  oft  impelled  'gainst  those  who 
mould  the  age, 

Not  understood. 

"Not  understood.    The  secret  springs  of 
action, 

Which  lie  beneath  the  surface  and 

the  snow, 
Are  disregarded;  with  self-satisfaction 
We  judge  our  neighbors  as  they  often 

go, 

Not  understood. 

"Not  understood.     How  trifles  often 
change  us. 
The  thoughtless  sentence  or  the  fan- 
cied slight 
Destroys  long  years  of  friendship,  and 
estranges  us, 
And  on  our  souls  there  falls  a  freez- 
ing blight: 

Not  understood. 

"Not  understood.    How  many  breasts 

are  aching, 
For  lack  of  sympathy?  Ah!  day  to  day, 
How  many  cheerless,  lonely  hearts  are 

breaking! 

How  many  noble  spirits  pass  away, 
Not  understood. 

"O  God,  that  men  would  see  a  little 
clearer, 

Or  judge  less  harshly  where  they  can- 
not see! 

O  God,  that  men  would  draw  a  little 
nearer 

To  one  another!  They'd  be  nearer 
Thee 

And  understood." 

— Thomas  Bracken 

I  would  leave  my  witness  with  you 


44 

Saturday,  October  5 

that  there  is  purpose  in  life,  that  there 
is  a  Father  in  heaven  who  made  us  in 
his  own  image;  that  he  did  send  his 
Son,  our  Savior,  to  redeem  us  from 
death;  that  God  has  revealed  himself 
to  man  through  the  prophets  of  the 
latter  days  even  as  through  the  prophets 
of  the  far  past;  that  he  is  interested 
in  his  children;  that  he  responds  to 
prayer;  that  he  gives  the  revelations  of 
his  mind  and  will;  that  men  are  im- 
mortal and  eternal;  and  that  there  is 
everlasting  purpose  and  reason  for  the 
righteous  living  of  life,  for  keeping  his 
commandments,  for  cherishing,  serv- 
ing, and  loving  one  another. 

We  would  share  with  you  these  words 
from  King  Benjamin  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon: 

"Believe  in  God;  believe  that  he  is, 
and  that  he  created  all  things,  both 
in  heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that  he 
has  all  wisdom,  and  all  power,  both 
in  heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that 
man  doth  not  comprehend  all  the 
things  which  the  Lord  can  comprehend. 

"And  again,  believe  that  ye  must 
repent  of  your  sins  and  forsake  them, 
and  humble  yourselves  before  God;  and 
ask  in  sincerity  of  heart  that  he  would 
forgive  you;  and  now,  if  you  believe 
all  these  things  see  that  ye  do  them.  .  .  . 

"And  ye  will  not  suffer  your  children 
.  .  .  that  they  transgress  the  laws  of  God, 
and  fight  and  quarrel  one  with  an- 
other, and  serve  the  devil,  who  is  the 
master  of  sin,  .  .  . 

"But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk  in 
the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness;  ye  will 
teach  them  to  love  one  another,  and  to 
serve  one  another. 

"...  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  shall 
be  no  other  name  given  nor  any  other 
way  nor  means  whereby  salvation  can 
come  unto  the  children  of  men,  only 
in  and  through  the  name  of  Christ,  the 
Lord  Omnipotent. 

".  .  .  O  remember,  remember  that 
these  things  are  true;  for  the  Lord  God 
hath  spoken  it."  (Mosiah  4:9-10,  14-15; 
3:17;  2:41.) 

The  answers  men  so  much  seek  arc  to 
be  found,  and  to  the  aching,  yearning 
loneliness  of  human  hearts,  and  to  the 
anguished  agony  of  the  world  there  can 
come    direction,    revelation,  comfort, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

guidance,  inspiration,  and  a  finding  of 
the  way  to  the  purposeful,  happy  living 
of  life  with  the  peace  and  cleanliness 
of  a  quiet  conscience,  and  with  the 
blessed  assurance  of  an  everlasting  life 
with  limitless  opportunities,  and  with 
our  loved  ones  with  us. 

May  God  be  with  you,  my  beloved 
friends,  and  give  you  every  needed 
blessing  in  life,  and  your  loved  ones, 
in  peace  and  health  and  happiness,  in 
prayerful  searching  and  seeking,  in  pur- 
suit of  the  divine  purpose,  with  the  as- 
surance that  the  answers  are  there.  May 
you  have  help  in  your  daily  pursuits, 
and  in  your  homes,  and  in  all  relation- 
ships with  your  loved  ones,  and  with 
wise  and  good  choices  in  all  the  living 
of  life. 

God   does   live  I     He   is   real  and 

reachable  and  not  indefinable.  He  is 
mindful  of  us.  He  hears  us.  He  is  in- 
terested in  us.  He  is  ever  ready  to 
communicate  with  us.  He  is  our  Father 
and  made  us  in  his  own  image,  and  as 
we  seek  him  he  will  not  leave  us  grop- 
ing and  lonely  and  alone.  His  word, 
his  Church,  his  purposes  are  here  and 
now  on  earth.  The  Creator  is  still  in 
command.  May  God  bless  you  and 
peace  be  with  you — always,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

Following  a  brief  Tabernacle  Organ 
interlude,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
sing,  "Hosanna,  Christ  Has  Risen,"  with 
Albert  Fallows  as  soloist. 

Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Hosanna, 
Christ  Has  Risen,"  (Albert  Fallows, 
soloist). 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  all  those  who  have  just 
joined  us  by  radio  and  television  in  the 
133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Bishop  John 
H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop  to  the 
Church. 


45 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


The  Bible  states  that  our  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  ".  .  .  gave  himself  for  us,  that 
he  might  redeem  us  from  all  iniquity, 
and  purify  unto  himself  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple, zealous  of  good  works."  (Titus  2:14.) 
The  members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  known 
throughout  the  world  as  a  peculiar 
people. 

We  are  considered  a  peculiar  people 
because  of  our  Word  of  Wisdom — the 
great  youth  program,  the  welfare  pro- 
gram, the  priesthood,  and  because  of 
our  belief  in  God — that  he  is  a  personal 
God  and  is  the  same  yesterday,  today, 
and  forever,  and  that  he  speaks  to  his 
prophets  today  as  he  did  anciently.  We 
are  peculiar  because  we  not  only  claim 
but  furnish  evidence  to  all  people  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth  in  these  latter  days. 
We  believe  that  the  same  organization 
that  existed  in  the  primitive  church  of 
apostles,  prophets,  bishops,  teachers, 
elders,  and  seventies,  has  been  restored 
by  direct  revelation.  It  is  the  duty  of 
those  called  as  apostles  ".  .  .  to  ordain 
and  set  in  order  all  the  other  officers  of 
the  church,  .  .  ."  (D&C  107:58.) 

"The  Twelve  are  a  Traveling  Presid- 
ing High  Council,  to  officiate  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  .  .  . 
to  build  up  the  Church,  and  regulate 
all  the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  na- 
tions, .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  107:33.)  The  Twelve 
travel  throughout  the  world  and  under 
the  influence  of  the  Spirit  ordain  bishops 
to  be  "stewards  of  God." 

In  connection  with  the  duties  of  the 
apostles,  I  would  like  to  relate  an 
apocryphal  story  from  the  writings  of 
Clement  of  Alexandria: 

".  .  .  about  John  the  Apostle,  handed 
down  and  preserved  in  memory.  When, 
on  the  death  of  the  tyrant,  he  (John) 
passed  over  to  Ephesus  from  the  Island 
of  Patmos,  he  used  to  make  missionary 
journeys  also  to  neighboring  gentile 
cities,  in  some  places  to  appoint  bishops, 
and  in  some  to  set  in  order  whole 
churches  and  ...  to  appoint  one  of 


those  indicated  by  the  Spirit.  On  his 
arrival  then  at  one  of  the  cities  at  no 
great  distance,  of  which  some  even 
mention  the  name,  ...  he  saw  a  youth 
of  stalwart  frame  and  winning  counte- 
nance, and  impetuous  spirit,  and  said  to 
the  bishop,  'I  entrust  to  thee  this  youth 
with  all  earnestness,  calling  Christ  and 
the  Church  to  witness.'  The  bishop  ac- 
cepted the  trust,  and  made  all  the  requi- 
site promises,  and  the  apostle  renewed 
his  injunction  and  adjuration.  He  then 
returned  to  Ephesus,  and  the  elder  tak- 
ing home  with  him  the  youth  who  had 
been  entrusted  to  his  care,  maintained, 
cherished,  and  finally  baptized  him. 
After  this  he  abandoned  further  care 
and  protection  of  him,  considering  that 
he  had  affixed  to  him  the  seal  of  the 
Lord  as  a  perfect  amulet  against  evil. 
Thus  prematurely  neglected,  the  youth 
was  corrupted  by  certain  idle  companions 
of  his  own  age,  who  were  familiar  with 
evil,  and  who  first  led  him  astray  by 
many  costly  banquets,  and  then  took 
him  out  by  night  with  them  to  share 
in  their  felonious  proceedings,  finally 
demanding  his  cooperation  in  some 
worse  crime.  First  familiarized  with 
guilt,  and  then,  from  the  force  of  his 
character,  starting  aside  from  the  straight 
path  like  some  mighty  steed  that  seizes 
the  bit  between  its  teeth;  he  rushed  to- 
wards headlong  ruin,  and  utterly  aban- 
doning the  divine  salvation,  gathered 
his  worst  comrades  around  him,  and 
became  a  most  violent,  bloodstained, 
and  reckless  bandit-chief.  Not  long 
afterwards  John  was  recalled  to  the 
city,  and  after  putting  other  things  in 
order  said,  'Come  now,  O  bishop,  restore 
to  me  the  deposit  which  I  and  the 
Saviour  entrusted  to  thee,  with  the 
witness  of  the  Church  over  which  thou 
dost  preside.'  At  first  the  bishop  in  his 
alarm  mistook  the  meaning  of  the  meta- 
phor, but  the  apostle  said,  'I  demand 
back  the  young  man  and  the  soul  of  the 
brother.'  Then  groaning  from  the  depth 
of  his  heart  and  shedding  tears,  'He  is 
dead,'  said  the  bishop.  'How  and  by 
what  death?'  'He  is  dead  to  God!  For 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


46 

Saturday,  October  5 

he  has  turned  out  wicked  and  desper- 
ate, and,  to  sum  up  all,  a  brigand;  and 
now,  instead  of  the  Church  he  has 
seized  the  mountain,  with  followers  like 
himself.'  Then  the  apostle,  rending  his 
robe  and  beating  his  head,  with  loud 
wailing  said,  'A  fine  guardian  of  our 
brother's  soul  did  I  leave!  Give  me  a 
horse  and  a  guide.'  Instantly,  ...  he 
rode  away  .  .  .  from  the  Church  and 
arriving  at  the  brigands'  outposts,  was 
captured  without  flight  or  resistance, 
but  crying,  'For  this  I  have  come.  Lead 
me  to  your  chief.'  The  chief  awaited 
him  in  his  armour,  but  when  he  recog- 
nized John  as  he  approached,  he  was 
struck  with  shame  and  turned  to  fly 
[flight].  But  John  pursued  him  as  fast 
as  he  could,  forgetful  of  his  age,  crying 
out,  'Why  my  son,  dost  thou  fly  [flee] 
from  thine  own  father,  unarmed,  aged 
as  he  is?  Pity  me,  .  .  .  fear  not  .  .  . 
stay!  believe!  Christ  sent  me.'  But  he 
on  hearing  these  words  first  stood  with 
downcast  gaze,  then  flung  away  his 
arms,  then  trembling,  began  to  weep 
bitterly,  and  embraced  the  old  man 
when  he  came  up  to  him,  pleading  with 
his  groans,  .  .  .  but  the  apostle  pledging 
himself  ...  led  him  back  to  the  Church 
and  praying  for  him  .  .  .  and  wrestling 
with  him  in  earnest  fastings  .  .  .  did  not 
depart,  as  they  say,  till  he  restored  him 
to  the  bosom  of  the  Church."  (St. 
Clement  of  Alexandria,  Quis  Divinitus 
Salv.,  chapter  42.) 

In  Zion  today  are  apostles  like  John 
who  have  been  divinely  called  to  min- 
ister the  affairs  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
in  all  the  world.  The  Lord  has  through 
this  apostolic  ministry  appointed  bishops 
in  all  stakes  of  Zion.  The  charge,  "I 
entrust  to  thee  this  youth,"  which  John 
gave  to  the  bishop  is  one  of  the  fore- 
most responsibilities  of  the  office  and 
calling  of  a  bishop — to  care  for  the 
youth.  Peculiar  to  this  Church  is  the 
authority  by  which  it  acts,  the  priesthood 
of  God.  This  priesthood  or  authority 
to  act  in  the  name  of  God  was  restored 
to  the  earth  by  direct  revelation.  The 
higher  priesthood  is  known  as  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  and  ". . .  continueth 
in  the  church  of  God  in  all  generations, 
and  is  without  beginning  of  days  or 
end  of  years."  (D&C  84:17.)  Along 


Second  Day 

with  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  ".  .  . 
the  Lord  confirmed  a  priesthood  also 
upon  Aaron  and  his  seed,  throughout 
all  their  generations,  which  priesthood 
also  continueth  and  abideth  forever 
with  the  priesthood  which  is  after  the 
holiest  order  of  God."  {Ibid.,  84:18.) 
Thus  there  are  two  divisions  of  the 
priesthood,  "namely,  the  Melchizedek 
and  Aaronic,  including  the  Levitical." 
{Ibid.,  107:1.) 

An  unusual  promise  is  given  in  con- 
nection with  the  priesthood.  The  Lord 
said:  "For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the 
obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  (or 
divisions)  of  which  I  have  spoken,  and 
the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sancti- 
fied by  the  spirit  unto  the  renewing  of 
their  bodies. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and 
the  Church  and  kingdom,  and  the 
elect  of  God."  {Ibid.,  84:33-34.)  It  is 
therefore  incumbent  upon  every  eligible 
male  member  of  the  Church  to  live 
worthy  to  receive  the  priesthood. 

The  Lord  in  his  great  wisdom  has 
placed  the  priesthood  under  two  divi- 
sions, as  indicated,  the  Melchizedek  and 
the  Aaronic.  Perfection,  however,  does 
not  come  through  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood because  this  priesthood  ".  .  . 
holdeth  the  key  of  the  ministering  of 
angels  and  the  preparatory  gospel"; 
{Ibid.,  84:26)  and  is  a  schooling  min- 
istry to  prepare  the  holders  thereof  for 
the  greater  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

The  Lord  offers  the  male  youth  of  the 
Church,  twelve  years  and  older  who 
are  worthy  and  eligible,  the  great  privi- 
lege of  officiating  in  his  work  by  being 
ordained  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
Here  they  learn  the  governing  princi- 
ples of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Through 
voluntary  service  in  the  outward  ordi- 
nances of  the  Church,  they  gain  a 
spiritual  stability  that  can  come  to 
them  in  no  other  way. 

It  is  the  Lord's  desire  that  all  should 
come  unto  him.  "For  behold,  this  is 
my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man."  (Moses  1:39.)  There  is  only 
one  way,  as  the  Bible  states,  "One  Lord, 
one  faith,  one  baptism."  (Eph.  4:5.) 

The  Lord  knows  the  dangers  that 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 


47 


can  beset  youth  without  a  spiritual 
guide — just  like  the  youth  that  John 
rescued  who  had  been  neglected! 
Worthy  young  men  in  the  Church  have 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  conferred  upon 
them.  Thus  each  has  the  advantage 
of  spiritual  growth  as  he  is  presided 
over  by  a  bishop.  The  bishop  is,  by 
revelation,  president  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  president  of  the  priests 
quorum.  Thus  the  bishop  of  a  ward  is 
the  spiritual  guardian  of  the  youth. 
He  does  not,  however,  replace  the  par- 
ents in  their  responsibility  to  teach, 
guide,  persuade,  and  discipline  their 
own  children.  It  is  the  responsibility 
of  parents  to  develop  within  their  chil- 
dren certain  spiritual  values  such  as 
humility,  repentance,  a  feeling  of  re- 
sponsibility, and  love  for  their  fellow 
men.  The  example  of  parents,  un- 
doubtedly, imposes  the  greatest  influ- 
ence upon  their  children.  This  influence 
must  be  for  good  if  parents  are  to  be 
successful. 

The  most  recent  statistics  from  the 
FBI  indicate  an  increase  in  crime  as 
reported  in  1962.  Approximately  fifty 
percent  of  all  major  crimes  are  com- 
mitted by  young  people  under  the  age 
of  eighteen.  The  school  drop-out  prob- 
lem seems  acute  and  more  prevalent 
today.  Dr.  William  Hutchinson  says: 
"For  the  most  part  school  drop-outs  were 
first  church  drop-outs.  He  is  a  drop-out 
from  his  family,  .  .  .  drop-out  from  so- 
ciety. ...  I  recognize,  .  .  .  that  the 
most  important  single  force  in  our  so- 
ciety is  the  family.  I  would  first  sug- 
gest that  we  prepare  our  young  people 
to  be  good  parents.  Too  many  of  those 
that  I  see  are  weak,  immature  parents. 
After  dealing  with  many  teen-agers,  I 
have  received  the  impression  that 
adolescent  youth  is  not  looking  ahead 
to  parenthood.  Teen-agers  too  often 
think  of  their  father  and  mother  as 
'poor  Dad'  and  'poor  Mom'  in  a  con- 
descending way.  Their  thinking  is  not 
oriented  ahead  with  proud  anticipation 
of  stepping  into  the  role  of  a  family 
leader. 

"Among  parents  I  see  a  great  many 
looking  back  with  nostalgia  to  their 
youth  and  trying  to  relive  the  'glorious 
teens'  vicariously  through  their  children. 


"The  family  used  to  be  bound  to- 
gether by  economic  glue.  Historically, 
the  family  worked  together  as  a  team 
on  the  hunt  or  in  the  field.  It  was  an 
essential  to  existence  itself  that  there  be 
discipline  and  leadership  within  the 
family." 

I  would  also  like  to  read  a  letter 
written  by  a  father  to  his  son.  The 
son  had  been  confined  in  a  youth  de- 
tention home.  The  father  upon  learn- 
ing about  his  son's  confinement  went 
immediately  to  the  detention  facilities. 
Upon  seeing  his  son,  the  father  com- 
menced shouting  indignantly,  inform- 
ing his  son  that  he  was  no  good,  a 
disgrace.  The  boy  reacted  by  forcing 
shut  the  door.  As  the  father  returned 
home,  he  was  unable  to  sleep.  He  spent 
the  night  pondering  over  the  circum- 
stances causing  the  failure  of  his  son. 
As  a  result,  he  wrote  this  letter: 

"Dear  Son,  Maybe  you  won't  under- 
stand all  this.  It  certainly  isn't  clear 
to  me  yet.  All  I  know  is  that  when  you 
sent  me  away  yesterday  I  was  glad.  I 
thought  I  was  finally  rid  of  a  big  prob- 
lem. I  was  wrong.  Son,  I  have  been 
wrong  about  you  for  a  long  time.  I 
decided  to  forget  you,  but  I  couldn't. 
The  more  I  tried,  the  more  I  thought 
about  you.  I  prayed  for  help,  but  it 
seemed  to  do  no  good.  In  fact,  my 
thoughts  only  became  more  centered 
around  you,  like  a  snowball  rolling 
down  hill. 

"I  don't  blame  you  Son  for  sending 
me  away.  You  weren't  sending  away 
your  dad,  only  a  guy  who  was  always 
mad  at  you.  When  I  overcame  my 
drinking  problem,  I  went  to  all  those 
I  had  hurt  and  asked  their  forgiveness. 
I  never  thought  to  go  to  you.  I  should 
have.  I  know  now  that  you  were  one 
of  those  I  had  hurt  the  most. 

"When  you  needed  another  chance, 
I  never  really  gave  it  to  you.  Just  sat 
around  knowing  you  would  fail  and 
waiting  for  it  to  happen.  Now  I'm  ask- 
ing you  for  another  chance.  Not  with 
me  setting  the  terms.  Just  for  the 
chance  to  work  with  you  to  try  to 
overcome  the  wrongs  done.  Hope- 
fully, Dad." 

This  letter  would  never  have  been 
written  if  the  father  had  been  the  spirit- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saiurday,  October  5 

ual  influence  in  his  home  that  God  in- 
tended him  to  be.  The  boy  would 
never  have  harbored  contempt  for  his 
father  if  their  home  had  been  spiritually 
strong.  One  might  assume  that  the 
statistics  of  broken  homes  and  shattered 
dreams  would  be  sufficient  to  compel 
all  people  to  correct  the  illusion  that 
they  are  self-sufficient  and  have  no  need 
of  God. 

Thomas  J.  Cahill,  chief  of  the  San 
Francisco  Police  Department,  makes 
the  following  observation:  "...  I  say 
to  you  that  the  home  is  a  place  where 
the  child  must  be  taught  from  the 
cradle.  Love,  understanding,  and  kind- 
ness is  something  that  is  built  into  his 
heart  or  her  heart  as  they  grow,  and 
it  must  be  done  by  both  the  father  and 
the  mother  carrying  out  their  responsi- 
bilities; because  when  God  gives  them 
children  or  gives  us  children,  he  also 
places  upon  our  shoulders  correspond- 
ing responsibilities  and  obligations  to 
see  to  it  that  those  children  are  brought 
up  in  the  proper  way.  .  .  ." 

I  must  add  that  the  only  proper  way 
is  God's  way.  Spiritual  discipline  is 
the  most  effective  means  of  character 
development.  The  influence  of  the 
priesthood  in  the  home  has  the  greatest 
influence  for  guiding  and  persuading 
young  people  along  the  path  of  right- 
eousness. One  of  the  fundamental 
teachings  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  every  mem- 
ber should  acquire  learning  by  study, 
by  faith,  by  prayer  and  by  seeking 
learning  wherever  it  is  found.  We  be- 
lieve that,  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelli- 
gence, .  .  ."  (D&C  93:36.)  "And  if  a 
person  gains  more  knowledge  and 
intelligence  in  this  life  through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another, 
he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in 
the  world  to  come."  (Ibid.,  130:19.) 

This  would  suggest  that  spiritual  guid- 
ance in  the  home  gives  the  youth  not 
only  an  advantage  in  this  life  but 
also  in  the  eternity.  In  addition  to  the 
influence  in  the  home,  the  bishop  gives 
them  guidance  in  the  government  of  the 
kingdom  and  in  the  priesthood  of  God. 
In  this  respect,  he  is  in  metaphor,  a 
potter  and  sculptor  of  the  youth. 

The  ward  bishop  cultivates  the  pure 


Second  Day 

love  of  Christ  in  the  souls  of  the 
youth.  His  labors  inspire  hope,  and 
his  kindness  builds  faith.  This  is  to- 
day's spiritual  challenge  to  establish 
faith,  hope,  and  the  pure  love  of  Christ, 
which  is  charity,  (see  Moroni  7:47) 
into  the  hearts  of  the  young  people. 
Paul  declares  that  these  three  abideth 
(see  1  Cor.  13:13)  though  the  image 
and  fashion  of  the  world  pass  away. 
It  is  the  precious  youth  of  the  Church 
who  must  accept  this  challenge.  It  is 
the  bishop,  as  overseer  in  the  household 
of  God,  who  holds  the  torch  of  leader- 
ship. The  bishop  is  indeed  a  true  and 
good  shepherd. 

It  is  in  the  early  period  of  life  that 
youth  needs  to  be  cared  for,  maintained, 
and  cherished.  This  is  the  formative 
period  of  life.  Mr.  Vaughn  in  1783 
wrote  to  Benjamin  Franklin,  "Influence 
upon  the  private  character  late  in  life 
is  not  only  influence  late  in  life  but 
a  weak  influence. 

"It  is  in  youth  that  we  plant  our 
chief  habits  and  prejudices;  it  is  in 
youth  that  we  take  our  party,  as  to 
profession,  pursuits  and  matrimony.  In 
youth,  therefore,  the  turn  is  given,  in 
youth  the  education  even  of  the  next 
generation  is  given,  in  youth  the  pri- 
vate and  public  character  is  determined, 
and  the  term  of  life  extending  but 
from  youth  to  age,  life  ought  to  begin 
well  from  youth,  and  more  especially 
before  we  take  our  party  to  our  prin- 
cipal objects." 

No  young  man  can  receive  the 
priesthood  and  participate  therein  with- 
out becoming  a  better  person.  The 
priesthood  is  character  building.  It 
teaches  one  to  have  proper  concepts 
and  values.  As  one  magnifies  his  duties 
in  the  priesthood,  he  experiences  the 
challenge  and  growth  that  emanate 
from  eternal  principles.  This  challenge 
prompted  the  inspired  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "That  the  rights 
of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  powers  of  heaven,  and 
that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be 
controlled  nor  handled  only  upon  the 
principles  of  righteousness."  (D&C 
121:36.) 

In  the  business  affairs  of  life,  it  is 
the  application  of  advantages  that  con- 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


49 


tributes  to  success.  If  one  has  the  ad- 
vantage of  added  training  in  a  certain 
field  or  the  advantage  of  more  economi- 
cal production  of  a  product,  he  usually 
becomes  more  successful  in  his  busi- 
ness effort.  So  it  is  with  the  youth. 
The  priesthood  of  God  gives  them  an 
advantage  for  success  and  happiness  and 
eternal  life. 

Here  we  have  reason  for  Peter's 
declaration:  ".  .  .  ye  are  a  chosen  gen- 
eration, a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy 
nation,  a  peculiar  people;  that  ye  should 
shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his 
marvellous  light."  (1  Pet.  2:9.)  In  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  John  H.  Vandenberg  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 


Following  a  brief  organ  interlude  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation 
will  sing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints," 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting  and 
Dr.  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

When  the  Saints  first  sang,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  those  who  spoke  from 
this  pulpit  spoke  only  to  those  who 
were  sitting  in  the  audience  in  the 
Tabernacle.  As  apparent  to  all  this 
program  has  been  given  to  the  millions 
outside,  as  well  as  to  you  here  in  the 
Tabernacle. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Alvin 
R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


It  is  always  a  great  spiritual  uplift  to 
attend  the  conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
I  am  grateful  with  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  once  again  to  have  this 
privilege. 

President  McKay's  great  message  yes- 
terday, which  went  straight  to  the  heart 
of  the  individual,  gives  encouragement 
to  the  remarks  that  I  thought  to  make 
about  honesty.  The  great  need  of  the 
world  is  for  spiritual  quality  in  men, 
for  depth  and  altitude  of  soul,  for 
wealth  of  inward  life,  out  of  which 
good  deeds  shall  come  like  a  stream 
from  the  mountains,  with  power.  But 
this  nobility  of  character  is  not  arrived 
at  in  a  day.  Its  source  lies  far  back 
in  the  days  of  youth,  in  the  practices 
of  restraint  and  the  acquisition  of  hon- 
est thoughts  and  good  habits. 

We  believe  in  being  honest! 

Through  the  efforts  of  the  American 
Bar  Association  and  Presidential  Procla- 
mation, we  now  have  a  new  day  in 
America.  It  comes  every  first  of  May 
and  is  referred  to  as  "Law  Day."  Efforts 
are  being  made  to  popularize  this  day 
by    many   national    organizations  of 


which  the  following  are  but  a  few: 
The  American  Heritage  Foundation, 
The  United  States  Conference  of 
Mayors,  and  The  General  Federation. 
The  need  for  such  a  day  to  be  brought 
to  the  attention  of  America  stems  from 
the  apparent  complacency  with  regard 
to  the  rule  of  law,  devotion  to  morality, 
and  moral  honesty. 

In  recent  weeks,  as  reported  in  our 
newspapers,  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  the  direc- 
tor of  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investiga- 
tion, based  upon  statistics  compiled  by 
this  bureau,  stated  among  other  things 
"that  since  1950  the  crime  rate  in  Amer- 
ica has  increased  four  times  as  fast  as 
our  population.  For  every  dollar  our 
churches  cost  us,  our  crime  is  costing 
us  12  dollars.  Bank  robberies  and  fraud 
have  increased  with  leaps  and  bounds." 
In  viewing  this  appalling  situation  there 
are  those  who  say,  "Such  crimes  are 
committed  by  the  professional  criminal, 
and  we  will  always  have  them."  But, 
truly,  are  such  deviations  into  crime 
and  dishonesty  expanding  only  in  the 
so-called  ranks  of  the  professional 
criminal? 

In  an  article  appearing  in  the  Reader's 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


50 

Saturday,  October  5 

Digest  not  long  ago,  we  learn  of  the 
reported  inroads  of  dishonesty  made 
into  the  ranks  of  the  average  person. 

A  fisherman  or  a  hunter  is  generally 
regarded  as  a  "sportsman"  with  a  sense 
of  fairness  and  of  playing  the  game 
according  to  the  rules;  yet  in  one  month 
in  one  of  our  states,  350  "sportsmen" 
were  fined  for  violation  of  the  game 
laws.  An  officer  reported  that  there 
would  have  been  many  more  had  there 
been  sufficient  wardens  to  check  the 
infractions. 

Access  to  the  daily  press  releases  of 
the  Federal  Trade  Commission  reveals 
the  mendacity  of  our  sellers  of  goods — 
lies  about  origins,  lies  about  qualities, 
lies  about  reduced  prices! 

Recently,  a  New  York  newspaper 
printed  many  columns  about  unscrupu- 
lous persons  on  relief  who  had  dishon- 
estly requested  and  received  more  money 
than  the  law  permits. 

The  revealed  facts  of  employee  and 
customer  dishonesty  are  most  startling. 
Chiseling  a  big  impersonal  company  is 
not  stealing  at  all,  say  some.  A  report 
of  this  was  made  in  Look  Magazine 
published  the  last  week  of  September. 
A  reputable  citizen  recently  told  proudly 
of  returning  a  five  dollar  bill  to  a  drug- 
store clerk  who  had  given  him  too  much 
change;  but  when  he  completed  a  long 
distance  call  from  a  pay  booth  and  the 
operator  returned  his  five  quarters  by 
mistake,  he  kept  the  money  without 
any  qualms.  "The  phone  company  is 
so  big  they  won't  miss  it,"  he  said. 

The  New  Jersey  Bell  Telephone  Com- 
pany not  long  ago  made  a  big  fuss  over 
a  ten-year-old  girl  who  had  returned 
several  dollars  which  she  had  found 
in  the  return  slot  of  a  public  telephone. 
The  company  tried  upon  this  occasion 
to  impress  the  fact  by  having  her  pic- 
ture placed  in  the  paper  that  when  a 
person  faces  a  machine  with  a  moral 
question,  his  answer  should  be  the  same 
as  when  he  faces  a  human  being. 

During  the  first  ten  months  at  New 
York's  new  Americana  Hotel,  the  well- 
meaning  average  guests  stole  among 
other  things  38,000  demitasse  spoons, 
18,000  towels,  355  silver  coffee  pots, 
1,500  silver  finger  bowls,  and,  believe 
it  or  not,  100  Bibles. 


Second  Day 

Supermarkets  are  especially  vulner- 
able to  the  "amateur"  thieves,  eighty 
percent  of  whom  are  women.  One  ex- 
ample, 500,000  supermarket  shopping 
carts  disappeared  last  year,  at  an 
average  cost  of  $30.00  each,  this  comes  to 
$15,000,000.00.  One  expert  estimates 
that  fifteen  percent  of  your  food  bill 
goes  to  cover  what  customers  and  em- 
ployees take,  salving  their  conscience 
with  the  thought  that  big  companies  can 
afford  it.  The  question  is:  Can  you  af- 
ford it? 

It  is  estimated  that  supermarket  em- 
ployees steal  the  equivalent  of  $300,000.00 
every  day.  Across  the  country,  employee 
thefts  of  money  and  merchandise  are 
estimated  to  total  two  billion  dollars 
a  year.  Three  years  ago  this  was  esti- 
mated at  one  billion.  Such  pilferage 
has  destroyed  many  companies.  An 
organization  has  been  formed  in  New 
York  City  not  to  investigate  criminal 
rings,  but  to  suggest  methods  to  big 
business  concerns  on  how  to  control 
employee  dishonesty.  Much  of  this  is 
in  such  innocent  quantities  that  it  hardly 
appears  evil  at  all.  Secretaries  go  home 
with  pencils  and  carbon  paper.  Em- 
ployees use  the  telephone  for  personal 
calls  that  add  up  to  big  money.  One 
executive  in  a  big  company  said,  "If  you 
asked  a  girl  to  put  down  a  dime  for  a 
phone  call,  she  would  think  you  were 
crazy." 

The  fact  that  moral  dishonesty  has 
settled  like  an  evil  blanket  upon  the 
peoples  of  all  lands  is  told  in  an  in- 
teresting story  by  Russell  Kirk  reporting 
in  the  National  Review,  having  written 
the  story  from  a  country  house  in  Fife, 
Scotland.  "Once  upon  a  time,"  he 
wrote,  "a  strict  Calvinism,  whatever  its 
defects,  did  install  a  high  degree  of 
honesty  in  the  typical  Scot.  But  this 
week,  at  the  raspberry  picking  here,  the 
gardener  remarked  to  me,  that  of  the 
thirty  or  forty  people  who  came  to  pick 
on  shares,  probably  everyone  would 
steal  a  basket  or  two  of  berries  if  he 
saw  the  chance." 

These  examples  of  moral  dishonesty 
are  not  those  of  the  hardened  criminal, 
but  rather  the  average  everyday  citizen 
we  see  go  to  and  from  work  on  the 
streets  of  our  cities.    Civilizations  may 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


51 


not  fall  because  of  cheating  raspberry 
pickers  or  dishonest  supermarket  em- 
ployees, yet  great  states  do  come  to  an 
end  of  their  tether  when  religious  sanc- 
tions no  longer  govern  the  soul  of  the 
average  citizen. 

Well  might  we  ask  ourselves  this 
question  at  this  crucial  time,  "What  is 
it  that  produces  moral  and  physical 
dishonesty  in  the  lives  of  people?"  The 
facts  that  have  been  reported  here  refer 
to  overt  acts  of  moral  dishonesty,  in  a 
supposedly  noncriminal  cross  section  of 
the  people.  Can  we  possibly  believe 
that  any  act  of  such  dishonesty  is  born 
as  of  that  minute  when  the  act  is  com- 
mitted? This  cannot  be  true,  for  it 
goes  back  even  to  childhood  where  little 
traits  of  dishonesty  go  undetected.  I 
once  heard  a  father  jokingly  tell  of 
how  his  little  son  was  always  able  to 
find  loose  change  around  the  house. 
Perhaps  the  urge  to  take  something  that 
does  not  belong  to  an  employee  can  be 
traced  back  to  the  lack  of  respect  which 
adolescents  have  for  the  property  of 
others,  even  members  of  their  own 
families. 

That  child  or  adult  who  is  unac- 
countable for  his  actions,  disregarding 
repentance  and  restitution,  weaves  into 
his  character  the  trait  of  dishonor.  Here 
we  see  the  need  of  righteousness  and 
kind  discipline  in  the  home. 

The  lack  of  realism  on  the  part  of 
parents  in  failing  to  detect  and  correct 
innocent  acts  of  dishonesty  in  their 
children  can  lead  to  disaster  later.  The 
passing  over  of  small  amounts  of  money 
taken  by  children,  the  failure  to  correct 
stories  told  by  children  which  are  com- 
pletely false,  can  lead  to  acts  of  a  graver 
nature  later.  There  are  many  ways  in 
which  the  unsuspected  seeds  of  moral 
dishonesty  are  planted  and  which  will 
blossom  forth  in  due  time. 

Generally  speaking,  moral  dishonesty 
tends  towards  insincerity  and  hypocrisy. 
These  three  are  evil  companions  and 
can  destroy  the  majesty  of  the  will, 
nullifying  the  power  of  agency.  Nothing 
displeases  the  Master  more  than  hypoc- 
risy. His  frequent  denunciations  of  the 
Pharisees  because  of  this  trait  are  a 
matter  of  biblical  record.  Of  those 
who  are  not  what  they  profess  to  be, 


the  Apostle  James  has  said,  "A  double 
minded  man  is  unstable  in  all  his 
ways."  (James  1:8.)  Following  this 
declaration  with  another:  "But  be  ye 
doers  of  the  word,  and  not  hearers 
only,  deceiving  your  own  selves." 
(Ibid.,  1:22.) 

An  insincere  person  lives  a  strenuous 
life,  says  Anne  Lindbergh.  There  must 
ever  be  restraints  against  "putting  on" 
or  assuming  a  superficial  front  to  sway 
an  impression  or  a  credit  in  our  direc- 
tion. That  leader  or  teacher  who  is 
not  honest  in  heart  lacks  sincerity.  Such 
a  one  does  not  live  by  what  he  teaches. 
The  very  word  itself  when  traced  to 
its  origin  means  to  be  honest  in  our 
relations  with  others;  a  negative  message 
will  ever  emit  from  an  insincere  and 
morally  dishonest  person.  From  my 
own  experience  in  serving  with  thou- 
sands of  missionaries,  I  have  come  to 
know  that  sincerity  is  the  most  neces- 
sary of  all  qualifications.  Without  it 
a  missionary  can't  hope  to  succeed. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  while  be- 
ing held  without  cause  in  Liberty  Jail, 
was  inspired  to  say  concerning  those 
whose  insincerity  of  purpose  had  led 
to  dishonest  membership: 

"How  much  more  dignified  and  noble 
are  the  thoughts  of  God  than  the  vain, 
(insincere)  imaginations  of  the  human 
heart!  None  but  fools  will  trifle  with 
the  souls  of  men."  (DHC  3,  295.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  urged  the  Ephesians 
to  serve  God  with  sincerity  of  purpose 
and  honest  intent.    Said  he: 

".  .  .  Be  obedient,  .  .  .  with  fear  and 
trembling,  in  singleness  of  your  heart, 
as  unto  Christ; 

"Not  with  eyeservice,  as  men-pleasers; 
but  as  the  servants  of  Christ,  doing  the 
will  of  God  from  the  heart; 

"With  good  will  doing  service,  as  to 
the  Lord,  and  not  to  men: 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against  the 
wiles  of  the  devil. 

".  .  .  in  the  evil  day,  and  having  done 
all,  To  stand."  (Eph.  6:5-7,  11,  13. 
Italics  added.) 

Someone  has  written  a  paraphrasing 
of  this  of  those  who  take  much  from 
life  but  give  little: 

"He  stands  having  his  loins  girt  about 


52 

Saturday,  October  5 

with  religiosity  and  having  on  the 
breastplate  of  respectability.  His  feet 
are  shod  with  ostentatious  philanthropy, 
his  head  is  encased  in  the  helmet  of 
spread-eagle  patriotism.  Holding  in  his 
left  hand  the  buckler  of  worldly  power 
and  in  his  right  hand  the  sword  of  in- 
fluence, and  thus  shall  he  stand  in  the 
evil  day." 

In  conclusion,  I  quote  the  thirteenth 
Article  of  Faith  of  our  Church: 

"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may 
say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of 
Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope 
all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  endure  all  things. 
If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or 
of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things."  (Italics  added.) 

I  have  spoken  of  but  one  phase  of  this 
article: 

"We  believe  in  being  honestl" 
I  bear  testimony  to  the  need  of  this 
attribute  in  our  daily  lives  that  we  may 
not  be  deceived  by  the  force  of  evil  in 
hidden  and  unsuspecting  ways.  I  bear 
testimony  also  of  the  vitality  and  truth 
of  the  message  of  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  we  have 
for  the  world.  In  the  words  of  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"We  say  that  God  is  true;  that  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  true; 
that  the  Bible  is  true;  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  true;  .  .  .  that  Christ  is 
true;  that  the  ministering  angels  sent 
forth  from  God  are  true,  and  that  we 
know  that  we  have  an  house  not  made 
with  hands,  eternal  in  the  heavens, 
whose  builder  and  maker  is  God;  .  .  ." 
(DHC  3,  304.) 

I  testify  of  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"How  Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains 
Are  the  Feet  of  Him  That  Bringeth 
Good  Tidings."  After  the  singing  there 
will  be  a  two  minute  organ  interlude. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "How  Beautiful  Upon  The  Moun- 
tains Are  The  Feet  Of  Him  That 
Bringeth  Good  Tidings." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  just 
listened  to  a  stirring  message  sung  by 
the  Choir.  "How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains  are  the  feet  of  him  who 
bringeth  good  tidings." 

As  I  stand  here,  I  feel  that  mankind 
today  needs  to  be  reassured.  Atheism  is 
asserting  itself  as  never  before.  It  is 
being  organized  to  destroy  religion,  to 
dethrone  God,  and  to  undermine  the 
standards  by  which  progress  in  the  past 
has  been  made.  The  leaders  in  all 
activities  of  life  need  much  strength, 
much  love,  much  endurance,  and  an  un- 
bounded courage,  and  certainly  greater 
faith  in  God. 

As  a  Church  we  accept  without  reser- 
vation the  divine  leadership  of  Jesus 


Christ  the  Lord.  Faith  in  him  is  the 
foundation  of  righteous  living.  He  is 
the  cornerstone  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  To  dis- 
regard and  to  ignore  him  is  to  extinguish 
the  brightest  light  in  human  history. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  attended  a  fast  day 
service  in  a  beautiful  ward  chapel. 
I  was  deeply  impressed  as  I  watched 
and  listened  to  the  proceedings.  A 
youthful  bishop  presided.  He  made  a 
few  preliminary  remarks,  and  the  con- 
gregation sang  a  well-known  hymn.  The 
prayer  that  followed  was  short  and  to 
the  point.  Another  hymn  was  sung, 
and  the  bishop  arose  and  told  the 
congregation  it  was  their  meeting.  He 
urged  the  members  present  to  bear  their 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


53 


testimonies  and  briefly  to  express  their 
feelings  regarding  their  faith  and  to 
acknowledge  their  blessings.  There 
were  no  prolonged  sermons.  The 
speakers,  men  and  women,  manifested 
the  usual  fear  and  timidity,  but  all  in 
all  each  one  had  a  message,  a  message 
that  came  from  the  heart,  and  what 
comes  from  the  heart  goes  to  the  heart. 
The  words  spoken  were  tinctured  with 
deep  conviction.  In  each  case  it  was 
a  declaration  of  a  positive  faith.  They 
told  about  their  prayers  being  answered 
and  the  manifestations  of  God's  power 
in  their  homes.  Some  talked  about 
material  blessings  which  had  come 
through  the  payment  of  tithing.  Others 
testified  as  to  the  divinity  of  God's 
work  which  had  been  established  in  this 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
Some  spoke  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  others  about  the  prophetic 
calling  of  Joseph  Smith.  The  closing 
hymn  was  sung  with  considerable  feel- 
ing. A  fervent  benediction  was  offered, 
and  the  meeting  dismissed,  but  the 
worshipers  stood  there  in  groups  as  if 
reluctant  to  go.  I  know  the  good  spirit 
was  present  in  that  gathering.  It  was 
the  spirit  of  true  worship.  All  were 
touched  and  everyone  was  strengthened 
and  uplifted  for  the  days  and  weeks 
ahead. 

What  is  man  without  an  abiding 
faith  in  the  true  and  living  God? 
Colonel  Ingersoll  answered  that  question 
many  years  ago.  "Man,"  he  said,  "is  a 
stranger  wandering  hither  and  thither 
in  a  narrow  vale  between  the  barren 
peaks  of  two  eternities,"  coming  and 
going  without  guide,  compass,  or  des- 
tination to  guide  him  on  his  way. 

But  let  me  say,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  those  peaks  about  which  Inger- 
soll spoke  are  not  barren,  for  a  man  of 
faith  sees  beyond  the  peaks,  and  he 
sees  a  primeval  existence.  He  also  sees 
a  land  where  there  are  no  shadows  and 
where  there  will  be  a  glorious  reunion 
with  loved  ones  who  have  gone  on 
before.  Earth  life  is  not  the  beginning 
of  man,  and  death  is  not  the  end.  For 
three  years  Jesus  walked  along  the 
shores  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  through  the 
towns,  villages,  and  cities  of  Palestine, 
teaching  and  demonstrating  the  power 


of  faith.  But  most  of  his  followers  re* 
mained  cynical  and  doubtful,  and  when 
the  crucial  and  testing  moment  arrived, 
they  were  not  there.  Without  faith 
man  is  forever  in  the  shadows  of  doubt 
and  uncertainty.  He  has  no  future.  He 
has  no  program  to  follow,  and  when 
death  comes  he  leaps  into  the  dark  and 
there  is  no  inclination  in  his  heart  to 
turn  to  God  and  worship. 

Jesus  was  the  greatest  advocate  of 
faith  the  world  has  known.  Fie  not 
only  taught  it  but  he  exemplified  it  in 
his  entire  ministry.  For  many  years 
I  have  read  books  on  the  life  and 
character  of  Jesus  the  Christ.  Most  of 
them  have  been  very  interesting  and 
well-written.  The  older  I  get,  however, 
the  more  joy  and  satisfaction  I  receive 
from  the  four  Gospels  written  by  Mat- 
thew, Mark,  Luke,  and  John.  These 
four  narratives  are  a  challenge  to  the 
world.  They  are  a  work  of  art.  They 
are  a  strong  and  irrefutable  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  What- 
ever is  said  and  done,  and  whatever  is 
written  about  him,  the  fact  remains 
that  these  writers  of  his  life  have  pic- 
tured for  us  the  greatest  figure  in  uni- 
versal history.  They  did  not  invent 
him.  No  one  would  be  capable  of 
doing  that,  for  he  was  perfect  and  be- 
yond the  creation  of  man.  They  re- 
corded what  they  saw  and  heard  and 
found  nothing  to  criticize.  They  ac- 
cepted him,  worshiped  him,  and  some 
of  them  died  for  him.  Their  testi- 
mony is  therefore  strong,  reliable, 
and  trustworthy. 

Religious  teachers  talk  about  theology, 
their  doctrines  of  salvation — the  resur- 
rection, the  virgin  birth,  and  many  other 
things.  But  without  the  personal  Christ 
as  he  appeared  among  men,  their  teach- 
ings would  be  meaningless  and  without 
purpose,  and  the  urge  to  worship  the 
Almighty  would  be  lost.  He  is  the 
voice  of  authority,  the  fountain  of  all 
grace  and  truth  and  the  mirror  of  all 
perfection  for  you  and  me  to  follow.  He 
made  that  clear  when  he  said,  "I  am  the 
way,  the  truth,  and  the  life:  .  .  ." 
(John  14:6.)  I  believe  that  deep  in  the 
heart  of  humanity  is  a  desire  to  believe 
in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  he 
gives  humanity  something  to  hope  for, 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

something  to  live  for,  and  something 
to  strive  for. 

Jesus  lived  with  the  poor.  He  ap- 
peared as  one  of  them.  He  cast  his 
lot  with  the  lowly  and  dejected  classes 
of  society.  You  will  recall  when  John 
the  Baptist  sent  his  disciples  to  be 
reassured,  Jesus  said,  "Tell  John  the 
poor  have  the  gospel  preached  to  them." 
(See  Luke  7:22.)  Can  you  think  of  any 
leader  aspiring  to  greatness  and  recog- 
nition who  ever  thought  of  beginning 
with  the  poor?  Please  remember  that 
the  higher  circles  were  open  to  him, 
but  he  never  deserted  the  meek  and 
the  humble.  He  remained  their  friend. 
Was  not  this  a  manifestation  of  his 
great  love? 

The  meek  will  someday  inherit  the 
earth.  The  honest  and  conscientious 
worker  will  be  rewarded,  and  the  idler 
and  the  schemer  will  have  no  place 
in  the  ideal  commonwealth  to  be 
established. 

Consider  the  Savior  from  any  stand- 
point. He  was  always  a  leader.  He 
possessed  all  the  qualifications  necessary 
to  lead  a  world  torn  asunder  by  conflict, 
war,  disruption,  and  contention.  He 
looked  ahead.  He  was  prepared  for 
eventualities.  He  knew,  for  instance 
that  he  would  be  put  to  death  on  the 
cross.  He  knew  also  the  reception  that 
would  be  accorded  his  disciples.  He 
never  wavered  in  the  face  of  a  ruthless 
and  determined  opposition.  In  adversity 
he  was  still  the  leader.  A  combination 
of  forces  assailed  him.  Strong  and  pow- 
erful they  were,  but  he  never  lost  sight 
of  his  appointed  mission  nor  succumbed 
to  the  fallacies  of  men.  His  objective 
was  before  him.  He  never  compro- 
mised nor  did  he  sidestep  his  responsi- 
bilities. He  was  firm  and  immovable 
before  his  assailants,  most  of  whom 
shriveled  and  withered  in  his  presence. 
He  could  not  be  manipulated  nor 
confused. 

He  was  qualified,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  lead  the  children  of  men.  He 
made  a  bid  to  do  so:  ".  .  .  other  sheep 
I  have,  which  are  not  of  this  fold: 
them  also  I  must  bring,  that  they  shall 
hear  my  voice;  and  there  shall  be  one 
fold,  and  one  shepherd."  (John  10:16.) 
Jesus  is  the  shepherd.   He  will  succeed, 


Second  Day 

for  regardless  of  man's  rebellion  every 
knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  con- 
fess that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  In  a  world 
of  uncertainty,  confusion,  and  chaos 
mankind  must  turn  to  him.  It 
is  inevitable. 

And  so  we  worship  the  Lord  and 
Master.  We  meet  together  often  to 
keep  alive  our  faith  and  to  worship 
him  in  spirit  and  in  truth.  Emerson 
said,  "And  what  greater  calamity  can 
fall  upon  a  nation  than  the  loss  of 
worship.  Then  all  things  go  to  decay. 
Genius  leaves  the  temple  to  haunt  the 
senate  or  the  market.  Literature  be- 
comes frivolous,  science  is  cold." 

I  testify  that  Mormonism,  so-called,  is 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It  em- 
braces all  truth  and  proclaims  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ.  People  every- 
where are  urged  to  recognize  and 
accept  that  truth  and  to  introduce  it 
into  their  daily  lives.  The  angel  whom 
John  saw  in  vision  said,  "Fear  God  and 
give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of  his 
judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven  and  earth  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters.'" 
(Rev.  14:7.) 

May  we  do  so,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  is  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  conclude  this  Third  Session 
of  the  133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing,  "Glory — Glory  Unto  Our  Na- 
tion," conducted  by  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie. 

Following  the  singing  the  benediction 
will  be  pronounced  by  Elder  Harvey  H. 
Taylor,  formerly  president  of  the  Mexi- 
can Mission,  and  this  Conference  will 
then  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 

We  express  our  deep  appreciation  to 
the  owners  and  managers  of  the  many 
television  and  radio  stations  who  have 
offered  their  facilities  as  a  public  serv- 
ice to  make  the  proceedings  of  this  Con- 
ference available  to  millions  throughout 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


55 


North  America,  South  America,  Europe, 
Africa,  and  in  many  other  areas  of  the 
world. 

The  Choir  sang  the  selection,  "Glory 
— Glory  Unto  Our  Nation,"  following 


which  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Harvey  H.  Taylor,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Mexican  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Saturday,  October  5th,  1963. 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
commenced  at  2:00  p.m. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Chorale,  Kurt  Wein- 
zinger,  Conductor.  Roy  M.  Darley,  As- 
sistant Tabernacle  Organist,  was  the 
accompanist. 

The  President  of  the  Church,  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  who  presided 
and  conducted  the  services,  made  the 
following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
tuned  in  by  radio  and  television,  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  we  are  assem- 
bled in  the  famous  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the 
Fourth  Session  of  the  133rd  Semi-An- 
nual  Conference  of  the  Church.  These 
services  are  being  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  by  television.  Those  stand- 
ing in  the  doorways  may  possibly  find 
seats  in  that  building.  This  session  of 
the  Conference  will  be  broadcast  as  a 
public  service  over  television  and  radio 
stations  throughout  the  West.  The 
names  of  the  stations  were  announced 
prior  to  the  beginning  of  this  meeting. 
We  appreciate  the  service  that  is  being 
rendered  by  these  stations. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be 
rebroadcast  over  KSL  Radio  Sunday 
morning  starting  at  one  o'clock  a.m., 
and  will  be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  the  world,  including 
Canada,  Mexico,  Alaska,  and  the  Is- 
lands of  the  Pacific.  A  video  tape  of  our 
session  this  morning  is  now  on  its  way 
by  air  and  will  be  telecast  tomorrow 
morning  in  Hawaii. 


We  have  received  the  following  tele- 
grams: 

John  B.  Chambers,  Jacksonville 
Branch,  Arkansas  District,  of  the  Gulf 
States  Mission  says:  "Pleased  to  inform 
you  that  17  Latter-day  Saint  servicemen 
just  departed  by  plane  from  Lindwalk 
Air  Force  Base  to  join  you  in  this 
Conference." 

And  from  the  Hawkes  Bay  Stake 
presidency  in  New  Zealand:  "Greetings 
and  Aloha  Lei  from  the  Hawkes  Bay 
Stake  presidency,  New  Zealand." 

The  world  is  getting  smaller. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  afternoon  of  special  guests,  promi- 
nent state  and  city  officials,  and  leaders 
in  educational  circles.  We  welcome  each 
of  you.  We  are  pleased  to  welcome  also 
our  stake,  ward,  and  temple  authorities 
and  General  Auxiliary  officers  of  the 
Church.  To  all,  to  our  vast  unseen 
audience  and  to  all  who  are  gathered 
in  this  historic  building,  we  extend  a 
cordial  welcome. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Chorale,  conducted  by 
Kurt  Weinzinger,  with  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ.  We  are  exceedingly 
pleased  to  have  these  young  men  and 
women  with  us  this  afternoon,  and  ex- 
tend a  hearty  welcome  to  them. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
choir  singing,  "Come,  and  Let  Us  Re- 
turn Unto  the  Lord."  The  invocation 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Donald  B. 
Milne,  president  of  the  East  Jordan 
Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale sang,  "Come,  And  Let  Us  Return 
Unto  The  Lord." 

Elder  Donald  B.  Milne,  president  of 
the  East  Jordan  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 


56  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  5 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Don- 
ald B.  Milne,  president  of  the  East 
Jordan  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale will  now  favor  us  with  "The  One- 
Hundred-Fiftieth  Psalm,"  conducted  by 
Kurt  Weinzinger.  After  the  singing  we 
shall  hear  from  Elder  LeGrand  Rich- 
ards of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


Second  Day 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Chorale,  "The  One-Hundred- 
Fiftieth  Psalm." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Dear  brothers  and  sisters  and  the  lis- 
tening audience: 

I  thought  I  would  like  to  discuss  with 
you  today  briefly  what,  to  me,  is  the 
most  important  thing  in  a  man's  life. 

Jesus  said: 

"But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Matt.  6:33.) 

Where  should  one  seek  to  find  the 
kingdom  of  God  today? 

The  Apostle  Paul  said: 

"And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and 
some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists; 
and  some,  pastors  and  teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness 
of  Christ: 

"That  we  henceforth  be  no  more 
children,  tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried 
about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by 
the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  crafti- 
ness, whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  de- 
ceive." (Eph.  4:11-14.) 

Can  the  world  claim  that  we  have 
come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith? 

In  view  of  the  hundreds  of  churches 
claiming  to  be  the  church  of  Christ  and 
yet  teaching  conflicting  doctrine,  is  it 
not  clear  that  men  are  being  tossed  to 
and  fro  with  every  wind  of  doctrine  as 
the  Apostle  Paul  stated,  and  is  this  not 
because  the  apostles  and  the  prophets 
whom  God  placed  in  his  Church  to 


bring  them  to  a  unity  of  the  faith 
were  all  put  to  death,  except  the  Apostle 
John  who  was  promised  that  he  might 
tarry  to  bring  souls  unto  Christ  until 
he  should  come  in  his  glory. 

What  became  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  after  the  Savior  and 
his  apostles  were  put  to  death? 

The  Apostle  Paul  warned  the  breth- 
ren of  his  day  not  to  look  for  the  com- 
ing of  Christ  until  there  should  be 
a  falling  away  first.  These  are  Paul's 
words: 

"Now  we  beseech  you,  brethren,  by 
the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  by  our  gathering  together  unto  him, 

"That  ye  be  not  soon  shaken  in 
mind,  or  be  troubled,  neither  by  spirit, 
nor  by  word,  not  by  letter  as  from  us, 
as  that  day  of  Christ  is  at  hand. 

"Let  no  man  deceive  you  by  any 
means:  for  that  day  shall  not  come, 
except  there  come  a  falling  away  first, 
and  that  man  of  sin  be  revealed,  the 
son  of  perdition";  (2  Thess.  2:1-3.) 

Could  a  more  positive  statement  be 
made  that  there  would  be  a  falling 
away  before  men  could  look  for  the 
coming  of  Christ? 

Flow  universal  was  this  apostate  con- 
dition to  be? 

When  the  Apostle  John  was  banished 
upon  the  isle  of  Patmos,  the  angel  of 
the  Lord  showed  him  all  things  from 
the  war  in  heaven  when  Satan  was  cast 
out  with  a  third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven 
until  the  final  winding  up  scenes  when 
we  would  have  a  new  heaven  and  a 
new  earth,  for  all  former  things  would 
have  passed  away,  and  the  angel  said: 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


57 


".  .  .  Come  up  hither,  and  I  will  shew 
thee  things  which  must  be  hereafter." 
(Rev.  4:1.) 

And  the  angel  showed  John  the  power 
that  Satan  would  have  in  the  world 
and  said: 

"And  it  was  given  unto  him  to  make 
war  with  the  saints,  (the  members  of 
his  church)  and  to  overcome  them:  and 
power  was  given  him  over  all  kindreds, 
and  tongues,  and  nations."  (Ibid.,  13:7.) 

In  light  of  these  statements  it  is  clear 
that  the  Lord  permitted  his  apostles  to 
see  the  time  when  his  Church  and  king- 
dom would  not  be  found  upon 
the  earth. 

But  he  also  let  them  see  the  time 
when  his  kingdom  would  again  be  re- 
stored to  the  earth. 

After  the  Apostle  John  was  shown  by 
the  angel  the  power  given  Satan  to  make 
war  with  the  Saints  and  to  overcome 
them  and  power  was  given  him  over 
all  kindreds  and  tongues  and  nations 
(see  idem),  he  was  shown  how  the 
Lord  would  restore  his  kingdom  to  the 
earth.   He  said: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Ibid.,  14:6-7.) 

Thus  the  everlasting  gospel  was  to 
be  restored  to  the  earth  by  an  angel 
being  sent  from  the  heavens.  It  was 
to  be  preached  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people,  showing  again  how 
universal  the  departure  from  the  truth 
had  been  or  there  would  have  been 
no  need  of  an  angel  being  sent  from 
heaven  to  restore  the  everlasting  gospel 
to  the  earth. 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  also  saw  the  day 
when  men  would  be  teaching  for  doc- 
trines the  precepts  of  men,  and  he  said: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 
do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  people, 
even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder: 
for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their 


prudent  men  shall  be  hid."  (Isa.  29:14.) 

Our  message  is  to  acquaint  every  lover 
of  truth  with  this  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder  or  the  everlasting  gospel 
brought  back  to  this  earth  by  holy  mes- 
sengers sent  from  heaven  in  our  day. 

The  Prophet  Amos  tells  us  the  need 
of  a  prophet  in  these  words: 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  noth- 
ing, but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

Thus,  he,  who  would  be  sent  to  pre- 
pare the  way  of  the  coming  of  the  Lord 
in  the  latter  days,  could  be  none  other 
than  a  prophet. 

We  bear  solemn  witness  unto  the 
world  that  the  Lord  has  raised  up  a 
prophet  in  this  dispensation  to  restore 
his  everlasting  gospel  or  his  kingdom 
upon  the  earth,  and  that  prophet  was 
Joseph  Smith. 

When  Jesus  bore  testimony  to  Nico- 
demus  of  what  the  Lord  had  done, 
he  said: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  We 
speak  that  we  do  know,  and  testify  that 
we  have  seen;  and  ye  receive  not  our 
witness."  (John  3:11.) 

And  we  testify  that  we  do  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God 
who  was  visited  by  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  when,  following 
the  admonition  of  the  Apostle  James, 
if  any  man  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of 
God  who  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be 
given  him.  (See  James  1:5.)  He  went 
into  the  woods  near  his  father's  house, 
when  only  in  his  fifteenth  year,  to  ask 
of  God  which  of  all  the  churches  he 
should  join,  and  the  Savior  of  the  world 
whose  right  it  is  to  sit  in  judgment  upon 
all  men  told  him,  he  should  join  none 
of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong  and 
were  teaching  for  doctrine  the  com- 
mandments of  men,  thus  merely  de- 
claring the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies 
we  have  already  referred  to. 

Following  this  glorious  vision,  other 
heavenly  messengers  were  sent  to  re- 
store all  things  spoken  by  the  mouths 
of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began  as  declared  by  the  Apostle  Peter 
which  would  have  to  transpire  before 
the  Savior  would  come  again.  (See 
Acts  3:19-21.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


58 

Saturday,  October  5 

Moroni,  a  prophet  who  lived  upon 
this  land  of  America  about  four  hundred 
years  after  the  birth  of  Christ  and  who 
had  custody  of  the  records  that  had 
been  kept,  of  the  hand  dealings  of  the 
Lord  with  a  people  that  he  led  to  the 
land  of  America  six  hundred  years  be- 
fore the  birth  of  Christ,  which  record 
was  recorded  on  gold  plates,  was  de- 
livered by  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  with  the  Urim  and  Thummim  or 
interpreters  by  use  of  which  he  was  able 
to  translate  these  records  which  we  now 
have  as  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

John  the  Baptist,  who  was  beheaded 
for  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  brought  back 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

Peter,  James,  and  John,  apostles  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  who  were  with 
him  upon  the  mount  of  the  transfigura- 
tion, restored  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood with  the  holy  apostleship.  Thus 
men  were  again  empowered  by  ordina- 
tion to  perform  holy  ordinances  here 
upon  the  earth  necessary  for  the  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  of  men  so  that  such 
ordinances  would  be  binding  in  the 
heavens,  and  again  to  establish  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon 
the  earth. 

When  Jesus,  as  he  sat  upon  the  Mount 
of  Olives,  told  his  disciples  that  the 
temple  at  Jerusalem  would  be  de- 
stroyed so  there  would  not  be  left 
one  stone  upon  another,  his  disciples 
said  unto  him: 

"Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be? 
and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy 
coming,  and  of  the  end  of  the  world?" 
(Matt.  24:3.) 

Then  Jesus  told  his  disciples  of  the 
judgments  that  would  befall  the  na- 
tions, of  wars  and  rumors  of  wars 
and  pestilences  and  earthquakes  and 
famines,  and  then  he  adds: 

"Then  shall  they  deliver  you  up  to 
be  afflicted,  and  shall  kill  you:  and  ye 
shall  be  hated  of  all  nations  for  my 
name's  sake."  (Ibid.,  24:9.) 

Then  he  adds: 

"And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall 
be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall 
the  end  come."  (Ibid.,  24:14.) 

This  is  the  only  gospel,  through  obe- 
dience,   to    which    men    can  obtain 


Second  Day 

membership  in  the  Church  and  king- 
dom of  God  here  upon  this  earth. 

So,  if  we  understand  the  scriptures, 
we  would  know  that  the  truth,  the  ever- 
lasting gospel,  the  marvelous  work  and 
wonder  Isaiah  spoke  of,  would  be  found 
with  a  people  who  have  been  hated  by 
all  nations.  Such  has  been  the  history 
of  this  people  and  this  Church. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  were  shot  in  cold  blood 
by  a  wicked  mob,  and  many  of  the 
Saints  were  killed  for  their  testimonies, 
and  the  Saints  were  driven  from  their 
homes  time  and  time  again  until  they 
were  driven  beyond  the  borders  of  the 
United  States. 

Recently,  I  sent  a  copy  of  a  book 
explaining  the  teachings  of  this  Church 
to  a  distant  relative  in  the  East,  an 
intelligent  man.  He  wrote  back  indi- 
cating that  it  was  the  first  book  he  had 
ever  read  in  favor  of  the  Mormons.  He 
said,  "I  doubt  if  you  have  any  concep- 
tion of  the  erroneous  ideas  the  people 
of  New  England  have  regarding  the 
Mormon  people.  I  sometimes  wonder  if 
they  believe  the  tales  they  tell." 

But  though  the  Lord  had  said  that  his 
people  would  be  hated  of  all  nations, 
nevertheless,  he  promised  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates: 

".  .  .  power  to  lay  the  foundation  of 
this  church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out 
of  obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the 
only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I, 
the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking 
unto  the  church  collectively  and  not 
individually—"  (D&C  1:30.) 

It  is  gratifying  to  us  to  have  lived 
long  enough  to  see  the  realization  of 
this  promise. 

Last  year  115,000  new  converts  joined 
this  Church  because  they  believed 
through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
in  answer  to  their  prayers  that  Joseph 
Smith  truly  was  a  Prophet  of  God. 

On  May  17  of  this  year  (1963)  the 
"Ten  Commandments  Award"  of  the 
Fraternal  Order  of  Eagles  of  Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin,  was  presented  to  President 
McKay.  It  was  the  third  time  in  fifty- 
six  years  the  award  had  been  presented 
by  the  organization. 

The    award,    an    engraved  copper 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


59 


scroll  mounted  on  walnut,  read: 

"To  President  David  O.  McKay— for 
leadership  and  strengthening  the  moral 
and  spiritual  fabric  of  American  life." 

Then,  Mr.  Thacker,  representing  more 
than  a  million  members  in  the  United 
States  said: 

"We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation 
for  your  leadership  as  head  of  one  of 
the  great  religions  and  faiths  of  our 
country.  We  present  it  in  honor  to 
your  church  and  faith,  and  to  you  per- 
sonally.   May  you  reign  forever." 

How  appropriately  he  expresses  our 
feelings  toward  our  great  prophet  and 
leader  of  today. 

On  March  29,  1960,  a  youth  con- 
ference was  held  in  Washington,  at  the 
call  of  President  Eisenhower.  Some 
seven  thousand  delegates  from  all  over 
the  United  States  attended  that  con- 
ference. President  Marion  D.  Hanks  of 
the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  of  this 
Church  was  asked  to  give  the  keynote 
address  at  that  conference,  and  as  he 
sat  down,  the  man  conducting  the  same 
made  this  statement: 

"As  I  sat  here,  I  reflected  that  Mr. 
Hanks  comes  from  people  that  were 
driven  from  our  region  of  the  country 
because  of  the  things  they  believed  and 
suffered  bitter  persecution  for  their 
ideals;  that  went  finally  to  the  far 
reaches  of  the  country  where  they 
thought  themselves  away  from  all  this. 

"Now  we  have  invited  a  leader  of  that 
people  to  come  here  to  talk  to  us  of 
the  same  ideals  and  principles  for  which 
we  drove  them  away." 

It  takes  truth  a  long  time  to  travel. 

In  a  book  recently  published  by 
Marcus  Bach  entitled  Strange  Sects  and 
Curious  Cults  he  devotes  one  chapter 
to  the  Mormons.  I  quote  the  follow- 
ing therefrom. 

"Mormonism  has  outlived  its  perse- 
cutors and  outlasted  most  of  its  critics 
and  with  good  reason.  It  is  the  most 
truly  American  of  all  America's  relig- 
ions. Its  founders,  its  miracles,  its  holy 
books,  its  prophets,  its  martyrs,  and  its 
spirit  grew  out  of  American  soil.  Across 
America  from  coast  to  coast  are  the 
credentials  of  its  faith,  and  it  is  in 
America  that  it  has  built  its  holy  city 
and  its  sacred  state," 


During  the  summer  of  1959,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Deep  Springs  College  near 
Bishop,  California,  a  member  of  the 
Episcopal  Church,  taught  at  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Summer  School. 

In  an  interview  with  a  newspaper 
reporter,  he  said: 

"It  may  well  be  that  the  Mormon 
people  have  the  key  that  will  eventu- 
ally save  this  country." 

We  knew  that,  but  we  didn't  know 
that  he  did.   Then  he  adds: 

"I  am  impressed  with  the  extremely 
high  level  of  intellect  I  encounter  in 
the  students  here  and  even  more  im- 
portant the  character  of  the  students." 

And  is  this  not  the  true  test  of  true 
Christianity? 

I  have  a  son-in-law  in  Los  Angeles 
who  has  interested  a  retired  minister 
in  the  accomplishments  of  the  Mormon 
Church.  He  said  to  my  son-in-law  a 
short  time  ago,  "I  would  like  to  do  some- 
thing worthwhile  before  I  die.  I  would 
like  to  write  a  book  in  favor  of  the 
Mormon  Church."  While  my  wife  and 
I  were  there  during  our  last  summer's 
vacation,  my  son-in-law  had  fifty  type- 
written pages  prepared  by  this  man 
under  the  title  A  Methodist  Preacher 
Likes  Some  Things  about  the  Mormon 
Religion.  I  was  asked  to  read  the  fifty 
pages  which  I  did,  and  there  were  many 
very  complimentary  things  said  about 
our  Church.  I  quote  just  a  few  para- 
graphs taken  at  random  from  the 
fifty  pages: 

"The  Mormons  need  to  know  that 
what  has  been  good  for  the  develop- 
ment and  practice  of  the  Welfare  state 
in  Utah  has  fundamental  principles  that 
God  designed  for  the  world  at  large 
as  well  as  for  the  Mormon  Church.  If 
Mormon  principles  of  the  Welfare  state 
have  been  good  for  the  Mormon  people 
— it  is  also  a  good  thing  to  give  it  out 
to  the  whole  world  without  stint 
or  favor." 

***** 

".  .  .  The  despised  Mormon  Church 
has  something  in  its  makeup,  the 
church  world  needs  and  no  amount  of 
dodging  this  fact  will  furnish  escape- 
ment from  our  theological  muddle  of 

the  present  hour." 

***** 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

".  .  .  Joseph  was  irregular  like  all 

prophets  of  God,  and  I  believe  he  was  a 

prophet  of  God,  in  spite  of  any  proven 

blunders  that  might  be  suggested  on  the 

part  of  his  enemies." 

***** 

".  .  .  The  Mormon  church  has  some- 
thing that  the  world  needs,  and  ignor- 
ance of  Mormon  truth  will  not  help 
us  solve  the  problems  of  our  national 
life." 

***** 

".  .  .  No  two  men  in  the  religious 

history  of  America  were   hated  like 

Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham  Young,  but 

they  had  something  the  world  needed 

in  spite  of  any  personal  faults  they 

might  have  had  in  life." 

***** 

".  .  .  It  is  high  time  that  some  honest 
scribe  wrote  about  the  importance  of 
the  truth  that  Joseph  Smith  and  Brig- 
ham  Young  preached  while  being  the 
most  brutally  opposed  men  in  American 
religious  life." 

It  is  wonderful  to  note  how  the  Lord 
is  fulfilling  his  promise  that  he  would 
bring  his  work  forth  out  of  obscurity 
and  out  of  darkness. 


Second  Day 

To  all  who  are  listening  to  me  this 
day,  I  say  unto  you,  that  God  the 
Eternal  Father  has  restored  his  Church 
and  kingdom  to  the  earth,  that  he  has 
built  his  Church  again  upon  the 
foundation  of  apostles  and  prophets 
with  Christ  our  Lord  as  the  chief 
cornerstone;  and  no  matter  what  your 
faith  may  be,  I  promise  you  that  if  you 
will  investigate  and  join  this  Church 
with  sincerity  of  heart,  that  it  will  en- 
rich your  lives  beyond  anything  that 
you  could  purchase  with  the  wealth  of 
this  world.  Hence,  I  repeat,  the  great- 
est thing  in  this  world  is  to  seek  first 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteous- 
ness and  all  other  blessings  will  be 
added.  I  prize  my  membership  in  his 
Church  and  kingdom  above  all  other 
things  I  have  in  this  world,  even  10 
my  life  itself.  May  God  bless  you  all, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


One  morning  on  my  way  from  the 
parking  lot  to  my  office  in  the  Church 
Office  Building  I  stopped  momentarily 
at  the  large  excavation  behind  the 
building.  A  young  man  stepped  over  by 
me  and  asked  what  was  going  on.  I 
told  him  it  was  the  excavation  for  a 
large  multistory  church  administration 
building.  He  replied  as  he  turned  and 
went  down  the  street,  "That's  too  much 
to  spend  on  religion."  Obviously  he 
didn't  place  much  value  on  religion. 

I've  been  thinking  since  then,  how 
much  is  too  much? 

In  this  busy  world,  are  we  so  con- 
cerned with  other  things  that  we  have 
not  time  for  God?  We  need  to  stop 
and  ponder — Where  are  our  values 
centered? 

"There  is  something  very  remarkable 
about  what  we  have  to  give  under  the 


gospel  plan,"  said  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  "No  matter  how  much  we 
give  of  truth,  of  good  example,  of  right- 
eous living,  our  stores,  our  blessings 
increase,  not  decrease  by  that  which  we 
give  away.  .  .  . 

"We  are  expected  to  give  out  of  our 
store  all  that  we  possibly  can  give  away, 
and  in  proportion  as  we  give  unto 
others,  we  become  thereby  more  and 
more  enriched  ourselves." 

In  serving  our  fellow  men  we  are  also 
serving  God.  As  he  has  said,  "Inas- 
much as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me."  (Matt.  25:40.)  The 
more  we  serve,  the  more  we  are  blessed. 
King  Benjamin  in  addressing  his  peo- 
ple said,  "I  say  unto  you  that  if  ye 
should  serve  him  who  has  created  you 
from  the  beginning,  and  is  preserving 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


61 


you  from  day  to  day,  by  lending  you 
breath,  that  ye  may  live  and  move  and 
do  according  to  your  own  will,  and 
even  supporting  you  from  one  moment 
to  another — I  say,  if  ye  should  serve 
him  with  all  your  whole  souls,  yet  ye 
would  be  unprofitable  servants. 

"And  behold  all  that  he  requires  of 
you  is  to  keep  his  commandments;  and 
he  has  promised  you  that  if  ye  would 
keep  his  commandments  ye  should 
prosper  in  the  land;  and  he  never  doth 
vary  from  that  which  he  hath  said; 
therefore,  if  ye  do  keep  his  command- 
ments he  doth  bless  you  and  prosper  you. 

"And  now,  in  the  first  place,  he  hath 
created  you,  and  granted  unto  you  your 
lives,  for  which  ye  are  indebted 
unto  him. 

"And  secondly,  he  doth  require  that 
ye  should  do  as  he  hath  commanded 
you;  for  which  if  ye  do,  he  doth  imme- 
diately bless  you;  and  therefore  he  hath 
paid  you.  And  ye  are  still  indebted 
unto  him,  and  are,  and  will  be,  forever 
and  ever;  therefore,  of  what  have  ye 
to  boast?"  (Mosiah  2:21-24.) 

Have  you  ever  tried  to  get  the  Lord 
indebted  to  you?  He  has  offered  that 
challenge  to  you. 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the 
storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  here- 
with, saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven, 
and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive 
it."  (Mai.  3:10.) 

We  are  indebted  to  God  for  our  very 
life:  the  air  we  breathe,  our  sight, 
speech,  hearing. 

Typical  of  many  other  such  cases  is 
the  lady  who  was  born  blind.  Through 
the  goodness  of  the  missionaries  who 
provided  her  with  the  Braille  and  talk- 
ing records  necessary  to  teach  her  the 
gospel,  she  became  converted  to  the 
Church.  She  told  me  she  had  two  sisters 
who  had  their  sight,  but  she  wouldn't 
trade  places  with  either  one  of  them. 
They  had  their  sight,  but  they  didn't 
see.  She  had  the  gospel  and  a  testimony 
of  its  divinity,  but  they  did  not. 

Another  typical  example  is  the  man 
who  was  grateful  for  the  accident 
which  caused  him  to  be  paralyzed  from 
the  waist  down.   He  said  if  it  had  not 


been  for  the  accident  he  would  not  have 
received  the  gospel.  He  had  been  too 
busy  before  to  be  interested  in  religion. 
After  the  accident  he  had  plenty  of  time 
to  think  and  set  his  values  straight. 
Then  the  missionaries  called  on  him. 
He  accepted  the  gospel  and  now  has 
been  to  the  temple  and  had  his  wife 
and  family  sealed  to  him  for  time  and 
all  eternity,  without  which  he  wouldn't 
have  his  family  after  death.  For  this 
he  was  most  grateful.  What  price  is 
too  great  for  the  blessings  of  exaltation 
and  eternal  life,  and  what  is  there  in 
this  world  that  is  more  precious  than 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ? 

In  early  days  of  the  Church  it  was  not 
uncommon  for  converts  to  be  rejected  by 
family  and  friends  and  forced  to  make  a 
choice  between  loved  ones  and  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  They  chose  the  gos- 
pel because  it  gave  them  a  joy  and 
security  which  could  not  be  found  in 
any  other  way.  There  are  still  some 
converts  who  are  forced  to  make  this 
choice.  On  the  other  hand,  some  of 
us  who  have  been  given  blessings  in 
such  abundance  have  no  time  for  God. 
Our  search  for  wealth  and  riches  means 
more  to  us,  and  we  are  sufficient  unto 
ourselves.  We  no  longer  depend 
upon  God. 

The  Lord  has  said  in  the  section  called 
the  Word  of  Wisdom: 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall 
receive  health  in  their  navel  and  mar- 
row to  their  bones; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great 
treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures";  (D&C  89:18-19.) 

How  can  one  set  a  price  on  the  "hid- 
den treasure"  of  knowledge  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ? 

And  again  the  Lord  has  declared: 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the  Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him."  (Ibid.,  84:35-38.) 

What  price  is  too  high?  Can  you  ap- 


62 

Saturday,  October  5 

predate  the  blessing  which  belongs  to 
you  priesthood  holders  to  take  your 
child  in  your  arms  in  the  congregation 
of  the  Church  and  give  it  a  name  and 
blessing,  or  to  baptize  and  confirm  the 
members  of  your  family,  or  others  who 
may  be  worthy? 

Count  your  many  blessings,  see  what 
God  has  done. 

Someone  has  said,  "True  faith  is  that 
which  teaches  that  things  which  matter 
most,  should  not  be  at  the  mercy  of 
things  which  matter  least." 

Let  us  not  be  like  the  man  in  the 
parable  Christ  gave  who  filled  his 
storehouses  with  the  riches  of  the  world. 
When  they  were  filled  to  overflowing 
he  said,  "I  shall  tear  them  down  and 
build  greater."  (See  Luke  12:18.) 

"But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool, 
this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  required  of 
thee:  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  12:20.) 

None  of  us  knows  when  our  soul 
may  be  required  of  us.  It  may  be  later 
than  we  think. 

May  we  more  fully  appreciate  the 
great  and  wonderful  blessings  which 
the  gospel  offers  to  us,  and  may  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

show  that  appreciation  by  righteous  liv- 
ing and  service  to  our  fellow  men  and 
unto  God,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
Congregation  will  now  join  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Chorale  in  singing 
"High  On  the  Mountain  Top,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Kurt  Weinzinger. 

Following  the  singing  we  shall  hear 
from  Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale joined  with  the  congregation  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Boyd 
K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Between  sessions  I  was  speaking  to 
Brother  Alma  Sonne,  whom  I  affection- 
ately call  my  "big  brother."  He  was 
the  concluding  speaker  at  this  morning's 
session,  and  sensing  some  apprehension 
on  my  part  about  this  moment,  he  said: 
"Don't  worry,  little  brother.  I  promise 
you  this:  There  is  a  good  spirit  when 
you  get  up  there."  And  I  confess  that  I 
am  totally  dependent  upon  that  good 
spirit  and  plead  with  the  Lord  for  his 
blessings  during  the  few  moments 
allotted  me  here  at  this  pulpit. 

Some  time  ago  I  stood  at  the  bedside 
of  an  aged  little  Danish  woman.  She 
was  near  the  close  of  her  life.  There 
was  a  serenity  and  anticipation,  even 
a  beauty  about  her  as  she  talked  of 
what  soon  would  be.  There  stood  with 
us  her  middle-aged  son,  a  pathetic  fig- 
ure. He  had  lost  his  wife  and  family 
through  self-indulgence  and  for  the 
past  number  of  years  had  been  living  at 


home  with  his  aged  mother.  Tearfully 
he  pleaded,  "Mama,  you  can't  go. 
Mama,  you've  got  to  live.  Mama, 
you  can't  die." 

Now,  as  the  last  person  who  seemed 
to  care  much  for  him  at  all  was  about 
to  go  home,  his  pleadings  became  al- 
most frantic  as  he  demanded,  "Mama, 
you  can't  go."  And  then  he  said  with 
emphasis,  "Mama,  I  won't  let  you  go." 

I  shall  not  forget.  The  little  mother 
looked  up  at  her  son,  and  in  her  broken 
Danish  accent  she  said,  "But  vher  iss 
yoa  powah?"  It  is  to  her  question, 
"Where  Is  Your  Power?"  that  I  would 
speak. 

Ller  son  had  brought  no  honor  to  the 
family  name.  As  a  father  he  had 
failed.  How  sharper  than  a  serpent's 
tooth  is  failure  such  as  thisl  I  address 
my  remarks  to  every  father  who  has  a 
son — not  to  the  exclusion  of  fathers 
who  have  daughters  only,  for  much  of 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


63 


what  I  say  will  suit  them,  too — but 
pointedly  to  every  man  who  has  a  son 
to  carry  on  his  name. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  a  family-centered  Church. 
I  bear  fervent,  solemn  witness  that  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  divinely  instituted;  that 
there  stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church 
today  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the 
program  of  the  Church  is  ordered  by 
revelation  from  on  high.  In  the  Church 
there  is  reverence  for  family  relation- 
ships. Family  relationships  are  sacred. 
The  family  is  eternal. 

I  speak  to  the  father  simply  in  recog- 
nition of  his  place  at  the  head  of  the 
home.  Recently  a  priesthood  home 
teaching  program  was  inaugurated  in 
the  Church.  It  reaffirms  to  every  father 
his  responsibility.  It  brings  to  every 
father  new  opportunity. 

The  responsibilities  of  fatherhood 
cannot  be  delegated  to  social  agencies, 
nor  even  to  the  Church,  for  a  father 
may  unwittingly  erase  all  of  the  good 
effects  of  those  outside  the  home  who 
seek  to  build  for  him  a  worthy  son. 

Parents  frequently  call  upon  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church  and 
anxiously  argue  that  we  are  the  last 
hope  to  rescue  a  wayward  son  or 
daughter.  They  seek  a  blessing  we 
cannot  always  bestow,  for  often  we  find 
it  is  the  parent  and  not  the  child  that 
needs  reproof.  How  wise  was  the 
prophet  when  he  said: 

".  .  .  The  fathers  have  eaten  sour 
grapes,  and  the  children's  teeth  are  set 
on  edge."  (Ezek.  18:2.) 

One  cannot,  I  repeat,  escape  the 
obligation  of  fatherhood.  The  father 
who  neglects  his  son  may  suffer  the 
condemnation  that  the  Lord  placed 
upon  the  Prophet  Eli  when  he  said: 

"For  I  have  told  him  that  I  will 
judge  his  house  for  ever  for  the  iniquity 
which  he  knoweth;  because  his  sons 
made  themselves  vile,  and  he  restrained 
them  not."  (1  Sam.  3:13.) 

I  would  remind  you  that  the  father 
is  first  of  all  a  husband,  and  essential 
to  rearing  of  fine  stalwart  sons  is  proper 
regard  for  the  wife  and  the  mother  of 
the  family.  O  how  important  it  is  for 
a  son  to  have  a  proper  relationship  with 


his  father  and  with  his  mother,  and 
for  him  to  know  that  his  father  and 
his  mother  live  together  in  love.  There 
are  some  hideous  things  that  can  hap- 
pen to  a  boy — ugly,  abnormal,  perverted 
things.  A  proper  parental  pattern  is  the 
greatest  insurance  against  tragedy  such 
as  this. 

The  Prophet  Jacob,  in  accusing  way- 
ward fathers  of  his  day,  said: 

"Behold,  ye  have  done  greater  in- 
inquities  than  the  Lamanites,  our  breth- 
ren. Ye  have  broken  the  hearts  of 
your  tender  wives,  and  lost  the  confi- 
dence of  your  children,  because  of  your 
bad  examples  before  them;  and  the 
sobbings  of  their  hearts  ascend  up  to 
God  against  you.  .  .  ."  (Jacob  2:35.) 

If  the  father  does  not  honor  the 
priesthood  he  holds,  rest  assured  that 
the  son  will  do  more  than  duplicate  the 
inactivity.  He  will  likely  magnify  the 
mischief  he  sees  in  you,  father.  For- 
tunately, the  same  may  be  true  of  your 
virtue  and  activity  also. 

Give  careful,  prayerful,  conscious 
thought  and  consideration  to  your  fam- 
ily. Do  not  bury  your  life  in  merely 
providing  a  living.  Many  men  play 
the  role  of  fatherhood  just  by  ear.  They 
only  react  to  what  is,  rather  than  to 
strive  with  conscious,  prayerful  effort 
for  what  ought  to  be. 

A  necessary  and  important  discovery 
with  reference  to  a  boy  is  that  he  is  an 
individual.  Boys  must  be  taught  to 
work,  but  boys  are  not  miniature  men, 
and  the  Lord  has  urged: 

"And,  ye  fathers,  provoke  not  your 
children  to  wrath:  but  bring  them  up 
in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the 
Lord."  (Eph.  6:4.) 

A  boy  is  not  born  to  know  that  his 
father  loves  him.  He  must  be  told 
and  shown  and  shown  and  told  a  thou- 
sand times  or  more.  A  father  must  be 
wise  and  patient,  but  most  of  all  he 
must  be  consistent,  and  his  expectations 
must  be  reasonable.  For  as  the  poet  said: 

"What  unjust  judges  fathers  are,  when 

in  regard  to  us  they  hold 
That  even  in  our  boyish  days  we  ought 

in  conduct  to  be  old. 
Nor  taste  at  all  the  very  things  that 

youth  and  only  youth  requires; 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

They  rule  us  by  their  present  wants, 
not  by  their  past  long-lost  desires." 
(Terence — The  Self-Tormentor, 
Act  I,  Scene  3, 
F.  W.  Ricord's  Trans.) 

Recently  in  California  a  church 
leader  described  a  lecture  he  had  given 
his  children.  He  had  forcefully  affirmed 
to  them  how  he  had  been  self-sufficient 
as  a  youth,  how  dependable  he  had 
been,  how  hard  he  worked.  His  tiny 
daughter  brought  him  back  to  earth  by 
saying,  "Daddy,  when  you  were  a  little 
baby,  did  you  fix  your  own  bottle?" 

Where  is  your  power  to  rear  children 
to  bring  honor  to  your  name?  Each 
father  would  do  well  to  recognize  that 
he  is  himself  a  son.  This  is  true  in  an 
eternal  way.  It  is  my  testimony  that 
the  word  "father"  in  the  scriptures 
means  father;  that  we  have  a  child- 
parent  relationship  with  God;  that  we 
were  created  in  his  image;  that  we  are 
his  children,  and  each  one  of  us,  par- 
ticularly those  who  hold  the  priesthood, 
will  one  day  have  to  answer  to  him. 

The  late  President  George  Albert 
Smith  once  lay  critically  ill.  Those 
close  to  him  despaired  of  his  life.  He 
later  recorded:  "One  day,  under  these 
conditions,  I  lost  consciousness  of  my 
surroundings  and  thought  I  had  passed 
to  the  other  side.  I  found  myself 
standing  with  my  back  to  a  large 
beautiful  lake,  facing  a  great  forest 
of  trees.  There  was  no  one  in  sight, 
and  there  was  no  boat  upon  the  lake 
or  any  other  visible  means  to  indicate 
how  I  might  have  arrived  there.  I 
realized,  or  seemed  to  realize,  that  I 
had  finished  my  work  in  mortality  and 
had  gone  home.  I  began  to  look  around, 
to  see  if  I  could  not  find  someone.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  soon  I  found  a  trail  through 
the  woods  which  seemed  to  have  been 
used  very  little,  and  which  was  almost 
obscured  by  grass.  I  followed  this 
trail,  and  after  I  had  walked  for  some 
time  and  had  traveled  a  considerable 
distance  through  the  forest,  I  saw  a 
man  coming  toward  me.  I  became 
aware  that  he  was  a  very  large  man, 
and  I  hurried  my  steps  to  reach  him, 
because  I  recognized  him  as  my  grand- 
father. .  .  ."  (I  say  parenthetically  here 


Second  Day 

that  his  grandfather  was  George  A. 
Smith,  First  Counselor  to  President 
Brigham  Young.)  President  Smith  con- 
tinues: "I  remember  how  happy  I  was 
to  see  him  coming.  I  had  been  given 
his  name  and  had  always  been  proud 
of  it. 

"When  grandfather  came  within  a 
few  feet  of  me,  he  stopped.  His  stop- 
ping was  an  invitation  for  me  to  stop. 
Then — and  this  I  would  like  the  .  .  . 
people  never  to  forget — he  looked  at  me 
very  earnestly  and  said: 

"  'I  would  like  to  know  what  you  have 
done  with  my  name.' 

"Everything  I  had  ever  done  passed 
before  me  as  though  it  were  a  flying 
picture  on  a  screen — everything  I  had 
done.  Quickly  this  vivid  retrospect 
came  down  to  the  very  time  I  was  stand- 
ing there.  My  whole  life  had  passed 
before  me.  I  smiled  and  looked  at  my 
grandfather  and  said: 

"  'I  have  never  done  anything  with 
your  name  of  which  you  need  be 
ashamed.' 

"He  stepped  forward  and  took  me  in 
his  arms,  and  as  he  did  so,  I  became 
conscious  again  of  my  earthly  surround- 
ings. My  pillow  was  as  wet  as  though 
water  had  been  poured  on  it — wet  with 
tears  of  gratitude  that  I  could  answer 
unashamed." 

This  vision  or  dream  of  President 
Smith  reminds  each  of  us  of  the  re- 
sponsibility we  bear  with  reference  to 
the  name  that  has  been  given  us.  We 
have  taken  upon  ourselves  the  name  of 
Christ  and  have  entered  into  a  cove- 
nant to  remember  him  always  and  to 
keep  the  commandments  which  he  has 
given  us,  and  in  consequence  of  keeping 
the  commandments  there  comes  a  prom- 
ise that  we  shall  have  his  Spirit  to  be 
with  us. 

Our  measure  will  not  depend  on 
academic  degrees  or  political  preference 
or  property  or  influence  so  much  as 
simply  how  we  lived  at  home.  To  be 
a  worthy  father  is  to  be  a  faithful  son. 
The  formula  for  either  is  the  same. 

Where  is  your  power?  It  is  in  the 
power  of  example.  Where  is  your 
power  to  raise  sons  to  do  honor  to  your 
name?  It  is  in  the  power  of  the 
priesthood. 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 


65 


In  closing  I  quote  a  few  lines  from 
Jane  Terry  written  to  teachers,  appli- 
cable to  fathers  who  are  the  teachers 
of  their  sons: 

"You   are  called  to   be  true  under- 

shepherds, 
To  keep  watch  o'er  the  lambs  of  the 

fold; 

"And  to  point  out  the  way  to  green 
pastures, 

Of  more  value  than  silver  or  gold. 

"Unto  you  are  entrusted  the  children 
Priceless  treasures  from  heaven  above, 
You're  to  teach  them  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel 

Let  them  bask  in  the  warmth  of  your 
love. 

"Do  you  ask  for  the  help  of  our  father 

In  teaching  his  children  so  dear? 

Do  you  put  forth  a  true,  honest  effort? 


Is  your  message  impressive  and  clear? 

"Are  you  living  a  worthy  example? 
Is  your  character  what  it  should  be? 
When    the    children    have  gathered 

around  you, 
Can  you  say,  'Come,  follow  me'? 

"Earnest  effort  is  always  rewarded, 
Righteous  lives  are  inspiring  to  all, 
You  can  render  your  thanks  to  our 
Savior, 

By  making  the  most  of  your  call." 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  also  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young. 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  always  a  joy- 
ful and  honored  occasion  to  look  in  the 
faces  of  so  many  priesthood  bearers,  to 
be  in  the  presence  of  our  prophet, 
twelve  apostles,  and  so  many  fine  peo- 
ple desiring  to  enjoy  and  know  the 
spiritual  things  of  life. 

I  would  like  to  just  mention  that  in 
the  passing  of  President  Henry  D. 
Moyle,  working  so  close  with  him  in 
the  mission  field,  I  learned  to  appre- 
ciate his  great  strength  and  his  power 
and  his  interest  in  taking  the  gospel 
to  every  soul.  He  knew  no  limit,  and 
he  always  had  an  open  door  to  every- 
one. He  always  had  time  for  the  right 
things.  I  have  never  experienced  an 
individual  like  President  Moyle,  a  man 
of  leadership,  capacity,  and  strength, 
and  with  so  many  varied  interests. 

Also  working  in  the  mission  field  with 
President  Tanner,  I  used  to  marvel  at 
how  he  could  make  so  many  inter- 
views. I  am  sure  that  he  tired  the  same 
as  the  rest  of  us,  but  it  never  seemed 
to  show.  Courage  and  strength — he  has 
only  one  real  desire  and  interest  and 
that  is  to  further  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


It  was  good  to  share  missionary  bless- 
ings and  to  have  friendship  with  these 
two  great  missionaries. 

I  enjoy  reading  the  scriptures.  You 
know,  they  seem  to  have  quite  a  human 
touch.  You  remember  Peter  saying 
after  the  Savior's  resurrection,  and  in 
his  absence,  "I  go  a  fishing."  (John 
21:3.)  That  is  just  about  as  brief  as 
you  can  put  it.  The  Savior  appeared 
while  Peter  and  the  disciples  were 
fishing.  After  the  Savior  had  shown 
them  how  to  catch  fish  by  casting  their 
nets  under  his  direction — casting  the 
net  under  his  counsel  and  his  guidance 
— that  is  the  way  to  fish.  He  taught 
them  how  to  be  fishers  of  men,  to  cast 
their  nets  under  the  direction  of  the 
Savior.  I  would  like  to  take  the  next 
part  of  this  great  message  that  the 
Savior  left  with  Peter  on  how  to  be  an 
effective  missionary.  This  was  now  the 
third  time  that  Jesus  showed  himself  to 
his  disciples  after  that  he  was  risen 
from  the  dead.  Jesus  saith  to  Simon 
Peter,  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest 
thou  me?" 

These  scriptures  are  well  known  to 


66 

Saturday,  October  5 

all.  This  is  a  very  important  question 
for  each  one  of  us.  May  I  ask  each  of 
you,  "Do  you  love  the  Lord?"  The 
answer  almost  without  exception  would 
be,  "Yes."  Let  us  place  ourselves  in 
the  position  of  Peter. 

".  .  .  Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou 
me?  ...  He  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord; 
thou  knowest  that  I  love  thee.  He  saith 
unto  him,  Feed  my  lambs."  The  Lord 
can  tell  if  we  love  him. 

"He  saith  to  him  again  the  second 
time,  Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou 
me?  He  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord; 
thou  knowest  that  I  love  thee.  He 
saith  unto  him,  Feed  my  sheep. 

"He  saith  unto  him  the  third  time, 
Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me? 
Peter  was  grieved  because  he  saith  unto 
him  the  third  time,  Lovest  thou  me? 
And  he  said  unto  him,  Lord,  thou  know- 
est all  things;  thou  knowest  that  I  love 
thee.  Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Feed  my 
sheep."  (Ibid.,  21:15-17.  Italics  added.) 

Can  you  picture  this  great  scene  of 
that  powerful  Peter  being  asked  these 
simple  questions?  And  the  Lord  had 
a  way  of  knowing  how  deep  the  love 
was  within  Peter  and  how  to  teach 
him  the  way  to  show  his  love  for 
Jesus  Christ. 

We  show  and  prove  our  love  by  feed- 
ing the  lambs  and  the  sheep.  There 
are  over  three  billion  people  on  the 
earth  today,  and  at  the  present  rate  of 
teaching,  over  two  and  a  half  billion 
of  God's  children  will  never  be  taught 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  What  if  you 
were  to  live  on  this  earth  and  never  had 
a  chance  to  hear  and  be  taught  the 
true  way  of  life? 

Our  task  is  great.  Teachers  are 
needed.  Every  member  of  this  Church 
that  has  a  testimony  and  is  converted 
is  urgently  needed.  The  lambs  and  the 
sheep  are  hungry  for  the  bread  of  life, 
for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  can 
show  our  love  by  following  the  prophet 
of  God,  "by  every  member  being  a 
missionary"  to  bring  one  or  more  souls 
into  the  Church  each  year.  It  is  great 
to  have  a  prophet.  Have  you  followed 
the  prophet? 

I  find  people  occasionally  worried  and 
concerned  about  whether  someone  else's 
convert  is  fully  converted.  They  are 
more  concerned  sometimes  about  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

than  about  feeding  and  teaching  their 
own  friends  and  neighbors  the  gospel. 
I  learned  a  lesson  about  this  point  in 
the  mission  field. 

The  missionaries  baptized  a  little 
Scottish  boy,  very  shabbily  dressed,  from 
a  very  poor  home,  family  conditions  al- 
most as  bad  as  you  could  find.  I  asked 
the  missionary,  "Why  did  you  baptize 
this  boy?"  "Well,  he  is  a  good  boy." 
The  boy  brought  his  entire  family  into 
the  Church.  His  father  was  an  alco- 
holic. He  failed  to  bring  his  money 
home.  Well,  the  story  has  a  beautiful 
ending.  Today  the  boy's  father  is  the 
bishop.  I  learned  not  to  judge  the 
conversion  of  someone  else.  The  Lord 
will  hold  the  person  that  improperly 
brings  someone  into  this  Church,  and 
him  alone. 

Now  what  have  we  to  teach  the 
people?  You  know,  the  Savior  gives 
us  this  great  message.  We  don't  have 
to  guess  at  what  to  teach.  The  Savior 
said  ".  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  .  .  ."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 
And  then  he  gives  us  the  key.  Jesus 
said:  "Teaching  them  to  observe  all 
things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you:  .  .  ."  (Matt.  28:20.) 

Our  job  is  to  teach  the  people  to  ob- 
serve all  things  whatsoever  Jesus  Christ 
has  commanded.  We  are  to  teach  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people  the 
commandments  given  by  Christ. 

The  Prophet  Ether  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  an  excellent  example  of  a 
good  effective  missionary.  ".  .  .  he 
could  not  be  restrained  because  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  was  in  him. 

"For  he  did  cry  from  the  morning, 
even  until  the  going  down  of  the  sun, 
exhorting  the  people  to  believe  in  God 
unto  repentance  lest  they  should  be 
destroyed,  saying  unto  them  that  by 
faith  all  things  are  fulfilled — "  (Ether 
12:2-3.) 

Here  are  some  of  the  things  that 
Jesus  commanded: 

"Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men, 
that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  5:16.) 

Teach  them  to  search  the  scriptures; 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 


67 


they  contain  the  program  that  God  has 
provided  for  his  children. 

Teach  your  fellow  man  to  have  faith 
in  the  Living  Personal  God  as  found  in 
the  scriptures. 

Teach  your  neighbors  and  friends 
that  they  were  created  in  the  image  and 
likeness  of  God,  their  Heavenly  Father. 

Teach  them  to  have  faith  in  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Savior 
and  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

Teach  them  to  repent  from  sin  and 
evil  and  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness. 

Teach  them  baptism — the  same  bap- 
tism that  Jesus  exemplified  as  he  went 
down  into  the  water  at  the  river  Jordan 
under  the  hands  of  God's  authorized 
servant,  John  the  Baptist. 

Teach  them  that  they  must  be  born 
of  the  spirit  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  Except  a  man  be  born 
of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(John  3:5.) 

Teach  them  to  love  God  and  neigh- 
bor. 

Teach  them  to  pray  from  their  hearts 
to  a  Living  God  and  a  Heavenly  Father. 

Teach  them  that  revelation  from  God 
to  man  has  never  ceased  if  man  desires 
to  know  and  receive  the  heavenly  bless- 
ings and  witnesses. 

Teach  the  people  to  pray  to  God  and 
ask  for  his  blessings  through  the  Savior 
Jesus  Christ. 

Teach  them  to  be  kingdom  builders. 
Remember  the  Lord's  Prayer —  ".  .  . 
When  ye  pray,"  the  Lord  said,  "After 
this  manner  therefore  pray  ye  .  .  . 

"Thy  kingdom  come."  Anyone  pray- 
ing after  the  manner  of  Jesus  Christ 
prays  to  be  a  kingdom  builder.  "Thy 
kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done  in 
earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  6:7, 
9-10.) 

Teach  them  to  have  joy  and  happi- 
ness; long  suffering,  goodness,  meekness, 
temperance,  love,  peace,  and  faith;  these 
are  the  fruits  of  the  Spirit. 

Teach  them  the  value  and  power  of 
the  priesthood  of  God,  and  that  it  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth. 

When  you  teach,  follow  the  Savior's 
counsel  and  "let  your  light  shine." 
Pray  always  before  you  teach  for  faith, 
wisdom,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 


Ghost.  What  a  marvelous  experience 
to  teach  the  gospel  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Holy  Spirit!  What  great 
joy  comes  from  feeding  the  lambs  and 
the  sheep. 

I  would  like  to  just  mention  in  clos- 
ing a  little  about  the  World's  Fair  as  a 
great  missionary  venture.  I  would  like 
to  mention  that  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ's  pavilion  and  exhibit  at  the 
New  York  World's  Fair  will  help  to 
show  the  world  that  we  are  Christians 
after  the  order  of  Jesus  Christ's  program 
and  teachings,  that  we  literally  accept 
the  living  personal  God  of  the  Holy 
Bible,  that  we  accept  the  living  per- 
sonal Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God 
and  as  the  Redeemer  and  our  Savior. 

The  church  pavilion  and  exhibits  will 
have  the  beauty  and  atmosphere  of 
sacred  Christian  love  and  peace.  The 
building,  I  am  sure  the  architect  was 
inspired  by  God.  It  has  an  atmosphere 
of  peace  and  sacredness,  the  way  the 
golden  light  enters  the  building,  the 
way  the  extension  of  the  building  is  de- 
signed. It  is  worth  a  trip  to  the  fair 
just  to  see  this  marvelous  building  and 
the  exhibits. 

The  church  pavilion  and  exhibits  will 
have  the  beauty  and  atmosphere  of 
Christianity.  The  theme  is  "Man's 
Search  for  Happiness."  We  hope  to 
show  that  happiness  comes  from  Chris- 
tian righteousness.  We  hope  to  show 
many  of  the  fruits  of  the  Church.  Jesus 
said,  "by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them."  (See  Matt.  7:16.)  We  will 
show  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  back  to  the  earth  again, 
the  same  as  it  was  when  Jesus  lived 
upon  this  earth. 

The  fair  will  be  for  two  years,  1964 
and  1965.  It  is  estimated  that  over 
seventy  million  people  will  attend.  In 
my  estimation  it  will  be  the  finest 
World's  Fair  ever  held  because  of  the 
two-year  period. 

Our  task  is  great  as  members  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  with  two  million  full-time 
missionaries  and  Saints,  we  can  teach 
the  people,  our  neighbors,  as  Jesus  said, 
"to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I 
have  commanded  you."  (Ibid.,  28:20.) 

May  we  all  follow  our  prophet  and 
be  missionaries  and  show  our  love  for 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

God  by  feeding  the  lambs  and  the  sheep, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 


Second  Day 

to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant     Henry  D.  Taylor,  our  closing  speaker. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  tlte  Seventy 


So  the  translators  may  be  forewarned, 
I  am  going  to  say  two  things  which  are 
not  on  the  paper  in  front  of  me.  The 
first  is  that  I  fully  and  completely 
support  President  Tanner  and  Brother 
Monson  in  their  positions.  I  am  sure 
they  know  this  already.  But  for  any 
others  who  have  any  doubt  about  it, 
I  want  them  also  to  know  that  I  do. 

The  second  thing  is  with  regard  to 
some  desirable  attributes  mentioned  just 
now  by  Brother  Brockbank.  He  named 
a  number  of  things  we  must  teach  our 
young  folk  if  we  expect  to  have  them 
stay  true  in  the  Church  and  have  prop- 
er acceptance  before  the  Lord  in  his 
kingdom.  It  has  been  my  observation 
as  a  leader  of  youth  that  one  does  not 
teach  youth  in  "lumps,"  if  I  may  use 
the  word — in  bulk.  Each  thing  one 
teaches  to  a  boy  must  be  taught  to 
him  separately  from  other  things.  May 
I  illustrate: 

I  can  teach  a  boy  to  make  a  fire  with 
two  matches,  to  care  for  it  and  to  put 
it  out.  This  is  one  of  the  tests  that 
used  to  be  in  the  Boy  Scout  Handbook 
when  I  was  in  that  movement.  I  can 
teach  him  so  that  I  can  leave  him 
while  he  does  it,  and  I  can  have  confi- 
dence that  he  will  perform  the  test 
without  my  having  seen  him  do  it.  But 
the  fact  that  I  taught  him  that  much 
of  honor  will  not  necessarily  carry  over 
to  his  schoolwork,  and  the  next  day  he 
may  cheat  in  an  examination.  I  now 
must  retrace  my  steps  and  teach  that 
boy  not  to  cheat  in  examinations,  and 
then  having  taught  him  not  to  cheat 
in  examinations,  I  must  take  any  other 
virtue  I  want  him  to  possess,  center  on 
it,  and  teach  him  that.  I  may  not  as- 
sume that  because  I  have  generalized  on 
the  code  of  conduct  which  I  expect  him 
to  live  by  that  he  will  get  any  of  that 


code  into  his  system,  except  as  I  detail 
it  one  item  at  a  time.  That  has  been 
my  experience  in  teaching  boys. 

That  explains,  to  me  at  least,  why 
we  teach  thoroughly  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, and  then  discover  to  our  sorrow 
that  often  times  the  person  who  would 
not  disobey  one  phase  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  sometimes  doesn't  have  much 
conception  of  the  moral  code.  Or  we 
teach  him  the  moral  code,  and  he  does 
not  seem  to  have  any  conception  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  We  cannot  allow 
ourselves  to  assume  that  a  boy,  or  girl 
either,  is  going  to  learn  more  than  one 
thing  at  a  time. 

Henry  Van  Dyke,  an  author  read 
very  much  by  the  past  generation,  but 
little  known  to  this  one,  once  wrote  a 
story  concerning  a  man  who  lost  the 
word  which  could  save  him.  Until  he 
could  remember  it,  say  it,  and  put  it 
into  his  life  once  more,  he  found  no 
peace — that's  how  the  story  went. 

Well,  there  is  a  word  which  many  of 
the  present  generation  have  not  learned 
to  know  in  the  first  place.  It  is  not  lost, 
for  it  has  not  yet  been  learned.  Yet 
without  it  we  cannot  go  very  far  in  our 
progress  toward  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
Like  Mr.  Van  Dyke,  I  shall  leave  the 
word  until  the  last  part  of  what  I  shall 
say — but  I  shall  talk  to  it. 

I  found  a  suggestion  of  it  in  the  words 
of  President  Heber  C.  Kimball  when 
he  wrote  his  feelings  about  first  hearing 
the  gospel.  He  wrote:  "The  family  of 
John  Young,  Senior,"  (who  incidentally 
is  my  great-great-grandfather)  "of  five 
sons  and  five  daughters  and  two  sons- 
in-law,  John  P.  Greene  and  Joel  San- 
ford,  had  moved  to  Mcndon  a  few 
years  previously."  Brother  Kimball  was 
in  Mendon  at  this  time.  "They  had  the 
same  principles  in  their  breasts  that  I 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


69 


had  in  mine;  truth  was  what  we  wanted 
and  would  have;  and  truth  is  what  we 
did  receive." 

I  call  to  your  attention  these  words: 
"Truth  was  what  we  wanted  and  would 
have."  Nothing  could  change  that. 
Their  lives  were  a  witness  to  what  they 
"would  have"  for  in  spite  of  persecu- 
tion, loss  of  property — several  times  in 
succession — the  truth  they  found  they 
"would  have" — in  spite  of  all  obstacles. 

In  explaining  the  principle  of  the 
second  comforter,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  said  these  words:  ".  .  .  After  a 
person  has  faith  in  Christ,  repents  of 
his  sins,  and  is  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  his  sins  and  receives  the  Holy 
Ghost,  (by  the  laying  on  of  hands) 
which  is  the  first  Comforter,  then  let  him 
continue  to  humble  himself  before  God, 
hungering  and  thirsting  after  righteous- 
ness, and  living  by  every  word  of  God, 
and  the  Lord  will  soon  say  unto  him, 
Son,  thou  shalt  be  exalted.  When  the 
Lord  has  thoroughly  proved  him  and 
finds  that  the  man  is  determined  to 
serve  him  at  all  hazards,  then  the  man 
will  find  his  calling  and  his  election 
made  sure,  then  it  will  be  his  privilege 
to  receive  the  other  Comforter.  .  .  ." 
(DHC  3,  380.) 

I  call  to  your  attention  the  words  "he 
finds  that  a  man  is  determined  to  serve 
him  at  all  hazards."  That  is  the  word, 
and  that  is  what  we  need  today —  de- 
termination— voluntary  determination  to 
serve  him  at  all  hazards.    This  is  the 


lost  word  which  is  not  lost,  but  which 
many  of  us  have  not  known. 

This  involves  a  man  in  his  higher 
nature,  too,  in  the  realm  of  his  free 
agency  to  do  as  he  will. 

This  generation  of  youth  and  we  par- 
ents will  find  the  key  which  opens  the 
door  to  the  solution  of  its  problems  by 
the  practice  of  this  simple  but  potent 
word — determination.  Without  it  the 
gospel  will  not  affect  us  very  much. 

The  past  generations  to  which  we 
point  with  solemn  pride  were  deter- 
mined to  stand  pure  before  the  Lord. 
Each  generation  must  in  its  turn  show 
equal  determination  if  it  is  to  be  ac- 
cepted. Our  present  generation,  young 
and  old,  is  now  making  this  choice.  I 
pray  that  we  may  be  determined  in 
our  turn  to  obey  the  commandments 
and  to  teach  each  of  our  children,  one 
by  one,  each  commandment,  both  by 
precept  and  example,  and  to  stand  true 
to  the  prophet  of  our  generation,  con- 
cerning whom  I  bear  witness  that  he  is 
a  prophet.  I  also  bear  witness  to  the 
fact  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  our 
Savior  and  has  given  us  his  gospel  to 
see  if  we  will  obey  it.  May  the  Lord 
help  us  to  do  it  I  pray  in  his  name. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


About  two  weeks  ago  a  great  and  good 
man,  who  had  completed  his  mission 
here  on  the  earth,  was  called  "home" 
by  our  Heavenly  Father.  Tributes  were 
paid  to  President  Moyle  by  his  asso- 
ciates, recounting  his  many  acts  of  de- 
votion, generosity,  and  service  to  God 
and  his  fellow  men.  President  McKay 
in  his  eulogy  remarked:  "Measured  by 
the  standards  of  true  nobility,  President 
Henry  D.  Moyle  was  truly  a  great  man." 

The  scholar  Carlyle  once  observed: 
"The  history  of  this  world  is  written 
in  the  lives  of  its  great  men."   We  pay 


honor  and  respect  to  men  and  women 
whom  we  consider  to  be  great  by  ob- 
serving the  anniversaries  of  their  birth, 
by  erecting  monuments  and  statues  to 
their  memory,  by  visiting  their  tombs 
and  laying  wreaths  thereon,  and  by 
engraving  their  names  on  stones  and 
sepulchers.  But  more  important  still 
is  the  manner  in  which  they  linger  and 
live  in  our  memories;  how  well  we 
remember  their  teachings  and  the  way 
they  have  influenced  our  lives  for  good. 

Well  might  we  ask  the  question: 
"What  made  these  men  or  women 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


70 

Saturday,  October  5 

great?  What  constitutes  greatness?" 
The  Greek  philosopher  Pericles,  many 
centuries  ago,  pondered  this  problem 
and  finally  arrived  at  the  conclusion 
that:  "Men  who  are  longest  remem- 
bered, and  whose  memories  are  most 
highly  revered,  are  not  those  who  made 
the  most  money,  but  those  whose 
hearts  were  gentle,  whose  sympathies 
were  broad,  and  who  best  served 
humanity." 

We  are  often  prone  to  judge  men 
hastily  and  to  consider  them  great  if 
they  accumulate  or  amass  a  substantial 
amount  of  wealth.  Ofttimes  during  this 
acquiring  process,  such  men  become 
self-centered  and  lose  sight  of  things 
spiritual  and  neglect  opportunities  to 
help  others. 

The  Lord,  who  is  aware  of  the  weak- 
nesses of  men,  sounded  a  note  of  warn- 
ing against  these  tendencies  when  he 
questioned:  "For  what  is  a  man  profited, 
if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul?  .  .  ."  (Matt.  16:26.) 
Then  later  he  proclaimed:  "Behold, 
there  are  many  called,  but  few  are 
chosen.  .  .  ."  (D&C  121:34.)  He  then 
explained  why  they  are  not  chosen, 
giving  this  reason:  "Because  their  hearts 
are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this 
world,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  121:35.) 

The  possession  of  wealth  and  the 
things  of  this  world  are  not  objection- 
able if  used  for  righteous  purposes.  The 
ancient  Prophet  Jacob  made  it  clear 
when  he  gave  this  sage  counsel  on  the 
proper  use  of  wealth: 

"But  before  ye  seek  for  riches,  seek 
ye  for  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  after  ye  have  obtained  a  hope 
in  Christ  ye  shall  obtain  riches,  if  ye 
seek  them;  and  ye  will  seek  them  for 
the  intent  to  do  good — to  clothe  the 
naked,  and  to  feed  the  hungry,  and  to 
liberate  the  captive,  and  administer 
relief  to  the  sick  and  the  afflicted." 
(Jacob  2:18-19.)  In  a  word,  to  assist 
fellow  men  and  to  serve  God. 

While  we  realize  that  wealth  cannot 
buy  happiness  nor  eternal  life,  one  has 
humorously  suggested:  "Money  may  not 
bring  happiness,  but  it  can  surely  make 
being  in  misery  a  lot  more  enjoyable." 
To  work  and  to  earn  a  comfortable  liv- 
ing is  important.    Latter-day  Saints  are 


Second  Day 

taught  that  everyone,  insofar  as  possible, 
should  be  self-supporting,  maintaining 
his  own  economic  independence,  and 
looking  to  no  one  but  himself  for  as- 
sistance. A  man  also  has  the  responsi- 
bility of  providing  for  his  family.  To 
earn  a  livelihood  and  at  the  same  time 
live  within  one's  income  become  both 
a  challenge  and  a  goal. 

But  while  doing  these  important 
things,  does  man  have  no  responsibility 
to  his  neighbor  or  to  God?  Can  he  not 
provide  for  his  family  and  at  the  same 
time  serve  his  fellow  men? 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  composed  of  lay  members. 
The  leaders  and  workers  are  called  from 
the  ranks.  Every  single  member  is  a 
potential  leader,  and  every  day  through- 
out the  Church  certain  individuals  are 
called  and  chosen  to  fill  positions  of 
importance.  In  accepting  these  callings 
they  are  recognizing  the  words  of  the 
Savior,  when  he  said:  "He  that  is  great- 
est among  you  shall  be  your  servant." 
(Matt.  23:11.) 

This  attitude  of  humility  was  evi- 
denced by  a  former  Vice-President  of 
the  United  States  who  rose  to  great 
heights  of  prominence,  even  aspiring  to 
become  President,  although  unsuccess- 
fully. Later  he  was  elected  to  a  more 
humble  office  as  a  junior  Senator  from 
his  home  state.  In  accordance  with 
Senate  protocol,  he  took  his  seat  on  the 
rear  row.  His  associates  and  fellow 
Senators,  over  whom  he  had  presided, 
offered  him,  out  of  love  and  respect,  a 
desk  on  the  front  row.  He  modestly 
declined,  uttering  this  classic  statement: 
"I  am  willing  to  be  a  junior  and  sit  on 
the  back  row,  for  I  had  rather  be  a 
servant  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  than 
sit  in  the  seats  of  the  Mighty." 

It  is  interesting  to  note  the  varying 
ways  in  which  individuals  respond  to 
calls  made  of  them.  When  the  Lord 
told  Moses  that  he  was  the  one  chosen 
to  become  the  leader  of  Israel  and  was 
to  lead  his  people  out  of  captivity  and 
bondage,  Moses  was  startled  and  began 
to  offer  one  alibi  and  excuse  after  an- 
other, stating  that  his  people  would  not 
believe  that  he  was  the  one  that  had 
been  called  to  become  their  leader.  The 
Lord  gave  him  many  assurances,  but 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


71 


Moses  was  still  doubtful,  and  finally 
said,  "O  my  Lord,  I  am  not  eloquent 
.  .  .  but  I  am  slow  of  speech,  and  of  a 
slow  tongue."  (Exod.  4:10.)  Noting 
his  reluctance  after  the  many  promises 
and  assurances  given,  the  anger  of  the 
Lord  was  kindled  against  Moses,  and 
he  was  instructed  to  call  Aaron,  his 
brother,  to  assist  and  serve  as  his 
spokesman. 

During  the  Savior's  ministry  upon  the 
earth,  he  thrilled  and  uplifted  those 
who  listened  to  his  teachings.  Many 
had  a  desire  to  follow  and  hear  more 
of  his  inspired  utterances.  One  disciple 
expressed  his  intention  of  following  and 
gaining  more  information,  but  made  the 
request:  ".  .  .  Lord,  suffer  me  first  to  go 
and  bury  my  father."  This  would  seem 
to  be  a  reasonable  request.  But  Jesus 
answered  and  said  unto  him:  "Fol- 
low me.  .  .  .  Let  the  dead  bury  their 
dead."  (Luke  9:59-60.) 

In  contrast  to  these  instances  of  hesi- 
tation and  lukewarmness  it  is  refreshing 
to  note  how  some  of  the  apostles  re- 
sponded to  the  calls  Jesus  made  of  them. 
The  Savior,  while  ".  .  .  walking  by  the 
sea  of  Galilee,  saw  two  brethren,  Simon 
called  Peter,  and  Andrew  his  brother, 
casting  a  net  into  the  sea:  for  they  were 
fishers. 

"And  he  saith  unto  them,  Follow  me, 
and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men. 

"And  they  straightway  left  their  nets, 
and  followed  him."  (Matt.  4:18-20.) 
Here  there  were  no  questions  asked,  no 
alibis  offered,  no  arguments  given. 

Going  on  a  little  farther,  the  Savior 
saw  two  other  men,  James  and  John, 
who  were  also  fishermen.  They  were 
assisting  their  father  Zebedee  in  mend- 
ing their  nets.  When  he  called  them, 
they  immediately  and  without  hesitation 
left  their  ship  and  their  father  and  fol- 
lowed Jesus.  (See  ibid.,  4:21-22.)  Were 
they  not  filled  with  the  spirit  of  obedi- 
ence and  service? 

As  calls  come  to  us  for  church  service 
by  the  Lord's  representatives,  it  is 
natural  for  us  to  wonder  why  we  have 
been  selected.  The  Lord  has  made  it 
plain  that  every  individual  has  been 
blessed  and  endowed  with  certain  gifts 
and  talents.  And  while  there  are  many 
gifts,  yet  "To  some  is  given  one,  and  to 


some  is  given  another,  that  all  may  be 
profited  thereby.  (D&C  46:12.) 

"And  all  these  gifts  come  from  God, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  children  of  God." 
(Ibid.,  46:26.) 

Now  it  was  intended  that  these  gifts 
and  talents  should  be  shared  with 
others,  for  the  purpose  of  rendering  serv- 
ice to  fellow  men  and  making  their 
lives  happier.  Every  week  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  thrills,  inspires,  and  uplifts 
us,  their  listeners,  with  beautiful  music, 
just  as  this  chorus  today  has  thrilled  us. 

Many  of  us  are  not  blessed  with 
musical  talents,  but  there  are  other 
gifts  that  we  do  possess,  and  other  serv- 
ices that  we  can  render.  The  poet, 
Edward  Everett  Hale,  aptly  expressed 
this  thought: 

"I  am  only  one, 
But  still  I  am  one. 
I  cannot  do  everything, 
But  still  I  can  do  something; 
And  because  I  cannot  do  everything 
I  will  not  refuse  to  do  the  something 
that  I  can  do." 

There  is  a  joy  that  comes  from  work- 
ing and  rendering  service  in  the  Church 
and  in  being  a  servant  to  our  fellow 
men.  King  Benjamin  taught:  ". .  .  when 
ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow 
beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of 
your  God."  (Mosiah  2:17.) 

To  every  faithful  member  of  the 
Church  will  come  opportunities  to  serve 
in  some  capacity,  for  the  need  for 
service  in  the  fields  of  missionary  work, 
temples,  home  teaching,  instructing 
classes,  choirs,  and  musical  groups,  work 
on  welfare  projects,  administrative  posi- 
tions, and  many  other  activities,  still 
remains  great. 

If  we  would  meet  the  Savior's  stand- 
ard for  greatness,  we  will  readily  and 
humbly  accept  the  callings  that  come 
and  become  servants  in  the  house  of  the 
Lord,  remembering  that  "He  gives  best 
who  serves  most."  Then  we  may  rest 
assured  that  if  we  do  our  best,  the  Lord 
will  do  the  rest. 

I  testify  from  personal  experience  that 
joy  and  happiness  have  come  to  me 
through  opportunities  to  serve  in  build- 
ing up  God's  kingdom  here  upon  the 
earth,  and  I  humbly  pray  that  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


72 

Saturday,  October  5 

same  joy  and  happiness  can  come  to 
every  member  of  the  Church,  all  of 
which  I  humbly  pray  for  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  been  our  concluding 
speaker. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale will  now  sing,  "Hallelujah,  Amen," 
conducted  by  Kurt  Weinzinger. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Grant  K.  Patten,  president  of  the 
Missoula  Stake,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  then  be  adjourned  until 
seven  o'clock  this  evening  when  the  gen- 
eral meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle.  Only  those  holding  the 
priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will 
please  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  This  Priesthood  Meeting 
will  not  be  broadcast  publicly.  How- 
ever, in  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  the  proceedings 
of  the  Priesthood  Meeting  will  be  re- 
layed by  closed  circuit  broadcast  orig- 
inating in  the  Tabernacle  to  members 
of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  370  separate  locations 
in  all  parts  of  the  United  States,  includ- 
ing Alaska  and  Canada.  It  is  estimated 
that  approximately  12,000  holders  of  the 
priesthood  will  be  on  Temple  Square 
and  more  than  70,000  others  will  gather 
in  other  locations  from  coast  to  coast. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  by  manv  radio  and  television 
stations  in  the  West,  and  short-waved 
to  millions  over  Station  WRUL,  beamed 
by  five  transmitters  at  Boston,  to  Europe, 
South  America,  Central  America,  Africa, 
and  parts  of  Asia.  For  the  second  time 
the  General  Conference  will  be  televised 
by  Canadian  stations  from  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle.  The  cooperating  Canadian 
stations  will  be  serviced  by  the  CTV 
network,  which  will  take  the  Sunday 
morning  session  and  transmit  it  across 
Canada.  We  thank  and  express  appre- 
ciation to  our  Canadian  broadcasting 
friends  for  their  cooperation. 

Both  sessions  of  our  Conference  today 


Second  Day 

will  be  rebroadcast  over  50,000  watt 
clear  channel  KSL  radio  early  tomorrow 
morning  starting  at  one  o'clock,  and  will 
be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the  United 
States,  Canada,  Mexico,  Alaska,  and 
the  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  Tabernacle 
Choir  Broadcast  tomorrow  morning  will 
be  from  8:35  to  9:00  a.m.  Those  desiring 
to  attend  this  broadcast  must  be  in  their 
seats  no  later  than  8:15  a.m.  Elder 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker  on  the 
Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  on  CBS 
Radio  tomorrow  morning  at  7:35  o'clock. 

There  will  be  large  crowds  attending 
the  services  on  Sunday,  and  we  ask  you 
please  to  be  courteous  and  gracious  at 
all  times — when  dnVng  your  automo- 
biles, and  when  standing  at  the  entrance 
to  the  Tabernacle. 

The  sinking  for  this  session  ha";  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Chorale  w'th  Kurt  Weinz:n<"pr 
conducting,  and  Rov  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ.  I  am  sure  this  great  gathering 
in  the  Tabernacle  and  our  radio  and 
television  audience  would  wish  me  to 
express  for  them  our  heartfelt  apprecia- 
tion for  the  excellent  ringing  this  group 
of  voung  Brigham  Young  University 
students  have  rendered  for  us  this  after- 
noon. It  is  good  iust  to  have  them  with 
us,  especially  to  have  them  sing  *o  well. 
It  is  good  to  have  young  people.  You 
can't  ge+  too  old  not  to  em'oy  their  com- 
pany.  I  speak  from  experience. 

"How  beautiful  is  youth!  How  bright  it 
gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams! 
Book  of  Beginnings,  story  without  End, 
Each  ma;d  a  heroine,  and  each  man 
a  friend!"  (Longfellow) 

We  thank  you  very  much. 

We  also  exnress  appreciation  to  the 
members  of  the  Tabernacie  Choir,  to 
Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor,  and 
Alexander  Schreiner,  organist,  for  the 
glor'ous  mu<;ic  rendered  by  them  on  the 
broadcast  this  morning! 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Chor- 
ale will  now  sing  "Hallelujah,  Amen." 
The  benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Grant  K.  Patten,  president  of  the  Mis- 
soula Stake,  and  this  Conference  will 


BROTHER  DAVID  CRAGUN 


73 


be  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this 
evening. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale sang  the  anthem,  "Hallelujah, 
Amen." 


The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Grant  K.  Patten,  president  of  the 
Missoula  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  5,  1963 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  pre- 
siding and  conducting  the  services. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
meeting.  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  was 
the  conductor;  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  organ  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  Session 
of  the  133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church.  You  will  be  interested 
to  know  that  these  services  are  being 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  wire  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  370  other  separate 
gatherings  from  coast  to  coast,  in  Alaska 
and  Canada.  It  is  estimated  that  70,000 
will  participate  in  this  meeting  by  direct 
wire.  This  does  not  include  those  in 
this  building  nor  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  men  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  with  Richard  P.  Condie  as 
conductor  and  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ.  We  shall  begin  these  services 
by  the  Chorus  singing  "The  Spirit  of 
God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning,"  Brother 


Condie  conducting. 

After  the  singing  Elder  Glen  P.  Um- 
berger,  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake, 
will  offer  the  invocation. 

The  Men  Of  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  Of  God 
Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning." 

Elder  Glen  P.  Umberger,  president  of 
the  Salt  Lake  Stake  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "Thou  Wilt 
Keep  Him  in  Perfect  Peace,"  directed 
by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 


The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  "Thou  Wilt  Keep  Him  In  Perfect 
Peace." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  dominating  theme  of  this  Priest- 
hood Meeting,  particularly  the  first  part 
of  it,  will  be  "Self  Control."  We  have 
asked  two  young  priests  to  speak  on  that 
subject.  Our  first  speaker  will  be 
Brother  David  Cragun,  a  young  priest 
of  the  Pleasant  View  Ward,  Ben 
Lomond  Stake. 


DAVID  CRAGUN 

Priest,  Pleasant  View  Ward,  Ben  Lomond  Stake 


Dear  Brethren:  A  week  ago  this 
morning  the  voice  of  President  McKay 
came  into  my  room,  by  telephone,  re- 
questing that  I  appear  here  and  represent 
the  youth  of  the  Church.  This  is  the  most 
cherished  moment  of  my  life,  for  the 
prophet  to  speak  to  me.  I  pray  that  the 


Lord  will  bless  and  strengthen  me  with 
this  most  humbling  experience. 

I  tremble — but  I'm  not  afraid.  I 
stand  here — a  priest  representing  thou- 
sands of  young  men  of  the  Church  who 
bear  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.   We  love 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

the  Church;  we  want  to  do  right;  we 
hope  to  prepare  ourselves  for  service  to 
others. 

Since  all  normal  boys  want  to  be 
doing  things,  we  constantly  face  two 
magic  words  that  every  boy  must  know. 
They  are — Self-Control.  These  were  the 
words  that  proved  to  be  a  challenge  to 
Father  Adam.  They  have  been  a  chal- 
lenge to  all  his  posterity  ever  since.  The 
smartest  boys  and  girls  since  the  be- 
ginning of  time — in  every  dispensation, 
are  those  who  have  appreciated  and  re- 
spected the  meaning  of  these  two  magic 
words  early  in  life — Self-Control.  Long 
ago  King  Solomon  pleaded  with  his  son 
to  hear  the  instruction  of  his  father, 
and  to  forsake  not  the  law  of  his  mother, 
to  get  wisdom  and  understanding.  Solo- 
mon knew  the  might  of  man's  will, 
when  he  said,  "He  that  is  slow  to  anger 
is  better  than  the  mighty;  and  he  that 
ruleth  his  spirit,  than  he  that  taketh 
a  city." 

Self-Control.  I  hold  the  priesthood. 
I  am  a  priest.  How  well  these  must  go 
together.  As  a  child  of  God  I  must  be 
sure  to  develop  personal  self-control, 
and  be  able  to  stand  by  my  own  deci- 
sions. I  do  not  want  regrets.  I  do  not 
want  tears.  Repentance  is  a  God-given 
principle  and  so  important  to  all,  but 
it's  so  often  associated  with  regrets  and 
tears. 

As  I  grow  up  and  struggle  for  more 
independence,  others  do  not  know  ex- 
actly what  I  may  be  thinking.  I  alone 
hold  the  key  to  thoughts  which  are 
mine,  when  I  am  with  others,  alone,  in 
Church,  at  a  football  game,  in  the  great 
outdoors,  at  a  dance,  in  a  movie.  Yet, 
am  I  really  alone?  Is  a  priest  alone 
when  he  has  prayed  for  strength,  lived 
the  commandments,  listened  to  the 
whispering  of  the  spirit,  been  obedient 
to  his  parents?  Followed  and  respected 
the  leadership  of  the  Church? 

I  know  that  Satan  tempts  priests.  He 
never  misses  a  chance  to  ride  our  backs 
and  whisper  in  our  ears.  His  tricks  are 
numerous.  His  tools  fit  our  emotions, 
tastes  and  passions,  and  are  labeled 
popular  and  what  everyone  does. 

This  is  when  the  magic  words  must 
ring  in  my  ears,  shine  in  my  eyes.  I 
am  a  priest.  I  want  a  mission.  I  want 


Second  Day 

celestial  blessings.  I  want  happiness. 
Thanks  for  "self-control." 

Thanks,  President  McKay,  for  re- 
minding us  so  many  times  that  the  Lord 
has  intended  that  every  man  have  hap- 
piness. Thanks,  Brethren,  for  your 
words  of  wisdom.  I  have  heard  you 
say  that  times  change  but  good  and 
evil  do  not.  Beware,  our  young  people, 
for  times  may  have  changed  but  the 
commandments  of  God  haven't — and 
neither  have  the  consequences  for  dis- 
regarding them.  The  Lord  has  made  it 
clear  that  blessings  are  based  upon 
obedience.  "I  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say,  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

The  philosophy  of  this  great  Church 
endorses  education  and  knowledge  as 
powerful  instruments,  but  we  also 
hasten  to  recognize  that  the  chain  with 
which  we  can  bind  Satan  must  be 
spiritual.  A  spiritual  chain  is  necessary 
because  Satan  has  no  body.  The  strong- 
est link  in  that  spiritual  chain  is  "Self- 
Control." 

Our  life's  mission  calls  for  us  to 
hearken  unto  the  Lord  and  turn  from 
temptation  and  sin — to  conquer  self — 
to  prove  and  improve  ourselves,  to  serve 
others.  Do  we  hearken,  when  we  are 
slow  to  resolve  the  questions  of  liquor, 
honesty,  tobacco,  Church  attendance, 
partaking  of  the  Sacrament  worthily,  a 
full  tithe?  A  young  fellow  who  knows 
and  acts  not  what  he  knows  is  like  the 
man  who  plows  and  plows,  but  never 
sows. 

Flave  we  resolved  a  firm  position  for 
ourselves  concerning  friends  we  choose, 
girls  we  date,  the  risks  of  petting?  Life 
is  a  dress  rehearsal  for  eternity  and  we 
will  play  the  part  we  have  rehearsed, 
for  no  one  is  born  into  the  world  whose 
work  is  not  born  with  him.  So  when 
the  final  curtain  is  drawn  we  still  see 
ourselves  as  we  know  ourselves  to  be — 
the  maker  and  judge  of  our  own  records. 

I'm  so  grateful  that  both  my  mother 
and  father  have  placed  the  Church  first 
in  their  lives,  that  they  and  all  my 
grandparents  never  forgot  why  the 
saints,  including  my  ancestors,  with- 
stood so  many  heartaches — stood  firm 
to  the  law  of  all  laws — the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ — and  came  to  Zion.  I'm 
grateful  for  the  wonderful  leadership  in 


BROTHER  MATTHEW  SIMMONS 


75 


the  Ben  Lomond  Stake.  Ever  since  I 
was  a  deacon  I  know  that  each  Sunday 
evening  when  the  Sabbath  is  drawing 
to  a  close  that  every  bishop  in  our  stake 
confers  by  telephone  with  the  stake 
presidency  and  reports  to  them  on  the 
activity  of  each  and  every  young  man 
and  woman  in  his  ward,  and  the  con- 
tacts made  in  their  behalf.  I'm  sure 
that  this  special  interest  in  us  has  influ- 
enced now  the  lives  of  the  youth  in 
our  stake. 

My  ideal  is  my  brother  Brent  who  is 
a  missionary  in  the  French  East  Mission. 
All  of  my  life  I  have  wanted  a  mission 
too.  I  want  to  be  worthy  and  ready 
next  April  when  I  become  nineteen. 
My  thoughts  and  actions  must  be  firmly 
disciplined.  Full  Church  activity,  study, 
prayer,  a  full  tithe  and  love  for  building 
the  Kingdom  will  strengthen  my  testi- 
mony. It  is  surely  safe  to  predict  that 
the  future  quorum  leaders,  missionaries, 
bishops,  high  councilmen,  stake  presi- 
dents and  General  Authorities  are  boys 
of  today.  Boys  will  be  boys,  but  we 
cannot  overlook  the  fact  that  boys  of 
today  will  be  men  of  tomorrow.  It  is 
likewise  safe  to  say  that  the  great  leaders 
of  the  future  must  first  have  developed 
within  themselves  a  full  measure  of 


"self-control."  If  these  preparatory  re- 
quirements are  not  for  me  and  all 
priests,  then  who  are  they  for?  And  if 
we  priests  do  not  prepare  for  them  now, 
then  when? 

Fellow  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  the  time  is  here  and  now 
for  us  to  develop  a  safe  measure  of  self- 
control,  to  lay  foundations  for  our  eter- 
nal happiness.  I  trust  that  every  young 
man  bearing  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  will 
pray  for  moral  strength  and  spiritual 
guidance,  for  parents  and  leaders  who 
will  stay  close  to  us  and  give  us  direc- 
tion and  encouragement.  My  testimony 
is  strong.  I  know  the  story  of  this  great 
Church  is  true.  I  know  that  God,  our 
Father,  stands  at  the  head;  that  you, 
President  McKay,  you  are  the  Lord's 
agent  and  prophet  holding  the  keys  of 
authority.  The  young  men  of  my  age 
sustain  you,  and  all  our  wonderful 
leaders.  Now  we  also  pledge  ourselves 
to  the  building  of  the  Kingdom,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Matthew  Simmons,  a  young 
priest  of  the  University  Sixth  Ward, 
University  Stake,  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


MATTHEW  SIMMONS 

Priest,  University  Sixth  Ward,  University  Stake 


"And  when  they  were  come  to  the 
place  which  is  called  Calvary,  there 
they  crucified  Him,  and  the  malefac- 
tors, one  on  the  right  hand  and  one  on 
the  left.  Then  said  Jesus,  Father,  for- 
give them,  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do."  (Luke  23:33-34.) 

In  these  simple  words  is  given  one  of 
the  most  impressive  examples  of  self- 
control  in  human  history.  The  Savior's 
mind  was  occupied  with  the  most  im- 
portant issues  at  stake  and  not  with  the 
personal  mistreatment  he  was  receiving. 

We  were  put  on  the  Earth  for  a  test- 
ing period.  We  were  given  free  agency. 
Just  as  a  hub  is  at  the  center  of  a  wheel 
and  spokes  radiate  out  in  every  direction, 
so  does  free  agency  place  us  in  a  hub. 
We  can  move  any  way  we  desire.  But 
going  from  this  hub,  there  is  only  one 


spoke  that  leads  to  eternal  perfection. 
This  spoke  is  marked  well — its  guide- 
post  is  self-control. 

To  the  rest  of  the  world,  self-control 
is  the  key  to  building  a  stronger  char- 
acter— to  a  Latter-day  Saint  it  is  the  way 
to  salvation.  We  have  approximately 
70  years  on  the  earth  to  determine  what 
degree  of  exaltation  we  shall  receive  for 
eons  upon  eons  to  come.  When  we  are 
placed  on  the  earth,  every  one  of  us  is 
spotless.  We  have  no  faults.  Then  we 
are  baptized,  and  after  this  point  we 
are  held  accountable  for  our  every  ac- 
tion. From  this  point  forward,  we  have 
to  use  the  utmost  restraint  in  every  deed 
in  order  to  follow  the  path  to  eternal 
perfection.  The  Master  gave  us  the  di- 
rection to  this  path  when  He  said, 
"Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate  because 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

strait  is  the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way 
that  leadeth  unto  life  and  few  there 
be  that  find  it." 

We  as  priesthood  bearers  have  the 
additional  responsibility  to  discipline 
ourselves  because  the  foundation  of  the 
Church  rests  upon  us.  I  think  the  poem 
of  Carl  Sandberg  portrays  the  warning 
of  the  lack  of  discipline  when  he  said, 

"It  has  happened  before, 
Strong  men  put  up  a  city  and  got  nations 
together 

And  paid  singers  to  sing  and  women  to 
warble: 

We  are  the  greatest  city;  the  greatest 

nation; 
Nothing  like  us  ever  was. 
And  while  the  singers  sang  and  the 

strong  men  listened 
And  paid  the  singers  well,  .  .  . 
There  were  rats  and  lizards  who  worked 
And  the  only  listeners  left  now 
Are  the  rats  .  .  .  and  the  .  .  .  lizards." 

We  have  the  only  Church — we  have 
the  only  priesthood,  but  it  happened 
before,  and  if  we  pay  our  singers  to  sing 
and  our  women  to  warble  and  we  as 
priesthood  holders  aren't  upholding  our 
priesthood,  the  rats  and  the  lizards  of 
Sandberg's  poem  will  be  working.  The 
world  asks  more  of  us  than  it  does  the 
average  man.  We  are  being  watched — 
we  are  being  looked  to  for  leadership, 
leadership  to  Eternal  Life.  We  can't 
afford  to  let  down  our  standards. 

We  have  the  very  same  cravings,  the 
same  appetites,  the  same  urges  as  do 
other  men,  but  we  must  learn  to  disci- 
pline ourselves.  We  must  learn  to  stand 
up  in  the  storm,  but  to  have  compassion 
on  those  who  fall,  to  master  ourselves 
before  we  master  others;  to  have  a  heart 
that  is  clean,  a  goal  that  is  high;  to 
learn  to  laugh  yet  never  forget  how  to 
weep;  to  reach  into  the  future,  yet  never 
take  ourselves  too  seriously;  to  be  humble 
so  that  we  will  remember  the  simplicity 
of  true  greatness. 

Mahatma  Ghandi  said,  "How  can  I 
control  others  if  I  cannot  control  my- 
self?" And  then  so  controlled  himself 
that  when  he  died,  Prime  Minister 
Nehru  went  on  the  radio  and  said,  "The 
light  has  gone  out  of  our  lives  and  there 
is  darkness  everywhere,  for  our  beloved 


Second  Day 

leader,   the  father  of  our  nation  is 
no  more." 

Restraint  can  bring  with  it  strength. 
This  strength  is  a  quiet  courage  that 
needs  no  trumpets  to  announce  its  com- 
ing. There  is  an  old  saying:  "If  one 
man  conquers  in  battle  a  thousand 
times  a  thousand,  and  if  another  con- 
quers himself,  he  is  the  greatest  of 
conquerors."  In  the  book  of  Proverbs  it 
says,  "He  that  ruleth  his  spirit  is  better 
than  he  that  taketh  a  city." 

I  am  a  priest  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. From  this  point  on  in  life,  self- 
control  needs  to  be  more  than  a  princi- 
ple for  me  to  speak  about.  From  this 
point  forward,  it  needs  to  be  a  way  of 
life — a  guidepost  through  which  I  can 
go  to  find  the  Celestial  Kingdom.  I  am 
on  the  threshold  of  life.  I  have  very 
definite  goals  which  I  want  to  accom- 
plish, but  I'm  reaching  the  point  where 
this  takes  discipline  and  control.  This  is 
a  minute  by  minute  thing.  We  as 
holders  of  the  priesthood  can't  put  this 
off  any  longer.  You  can't  walk  south, 
or  even  east  or  west  if  you  want  to  go 
north.  "He  who  picks  up  one  end  of 
the  stick  also  picks  the  other." 

The  prisoner  in  Sing  Sing  surely 
didn't  plan  to  go  there;  he  merely  waited 
just  a  little  too  long  to  start  curbing 
his  appetites  and  desires  or  he  practiced 
control  on  the  easy  habits  to  break,  but 
the  hard  ones  he  decided  to  wait  on. 
How  did  he  know  when  he  had  crossed 
that  fine  line  over  which  he  couldn't 
turn  back.  How  can  anyone  know  when 
they  have  crossed  this  line?  When  they 
smoke  that  extra  day  and  never  stop 
after  that,  or  take  that  extra  drink  be- 
cause they  are  sure  that  they  are  going 
to  be  quitting  tomorrow. 

How  many  times  have  we  said  to 
ourselves,  "I  know  I  won't  have  this 
habit  later  on  in  life;  I'm  just  getting 
it  out  of  my  system  now."  It's  too  late  in 
our  lives  to  be  experimenting.  We  have 
to  decide  right  now  that  we  can  master 
ourselves  completely.  It  will  be  hard, 
but  everything  that  is  worth  having  is 
hard  to  get.  The  coach  of  one  of  our 
great  college  football  teams  used  to  tell 
his  men,  "When  the  going  gets  tough, 
the  tough  get  going!"  At  times  it  will 
get  tough,  terribly  tough.   This  life  of 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


77 


ours  is  a  championship  game;  we're  up 
against  a  rugged  opponent — his  forces 
are  laziness,  procrastination,  disappoint- 
ment. There  are  no  time  outs  in  this 
game;  every  minute  counts.  Every  action 
is  recorded  in  the  score  book  and  the 
final  score  oE  this  game  will  be  with  us 
through  eternity. 

A  lifetime,  70  years,  a  long  time?  Not 
really,  when  you  consider  the  centuries 
upon  centuries  of  what  will  follow  this 
life.  Seventy  short  years  in  which  to 
prove  ourselves.  This  makes  self-control 
pretty  important,  doesn't  it? 

Joan  of  Arc,  as  she  was  put  to  death 
by  fire  at  the  age  of  19  because  she 
wouldn't  deny  what  she  believed  in, 
said,  "One  life  is  all  that  we  have.  We 
live  it  as  we  believe  in  living  it  and 
then  it  is  gone.  But  to  surrender  what 
you  are  and  to  live  without  belief  is 
more  terrible  than  dying — even  dying 
young."  If  we  fail  to  control  ourselves, 
we  fail  to  live  our  lives  as  we  believe  we 
should,  and  this  is  more  terrible  than 
dying  young. 

Once  we  have  begun  to  master  our- 
selves, to  discipline  our  bodies,  to  curb 
our  habits,  then  we  are  on  our  way. 
How  wonderful  it  would  be  to  have 
completely  controlled  ourselves  so  that 
we  could  wake  up  each  morning  and 
look  at  ourselves  and  say,  "I  have  100 
per  cent  self-control.  I  have  no  prob- 
lems. I  can  overcome  anything!"  We 
can  do  this.  God  has  given  every  one 
of  us  the  ability  to  practice  restraint. 
Some  of  us  have  never  gotten  around 
to  trying  it. 

"You  are  the  person  who  has  to  decide 
Whether  you'll  do  it  or  toss  it  aside.  .  .  . 
You  are  the  person  who  makes  up  your 
mind 


Whether  you'll  lead  or  will  linger  be- 
hind— 

Whether  you'll  try  for  the  goal  that's 
afar, 

Or  just  be  content  to  stay  where  you 
are." 

— Edgar  A.  Guest. 

I  know  that  we  can  all  restrain  our- 
selves. I  know  this  just  as  assuredly  as  I 
know  that  this  Church  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  that  we  have  here  to- 
night prophets  and  leaders,  sustained  by 
God,  that  David  O.  McKay  is  a  divinely 
inspired  prophet  of  God. 

Restraint  at  times  will  be  hard,  and 
at  times  we  will  be  discouraged.  Even 
Christ,  as  He  was  on  the  cross,  for  a 
minute  was  overcome  with  horrible  pain 
and  torment,  and  cried  out,  "My  God, 
my  God,  Why  hast  thou  forsaken  me?" 
But  this  too  will  pass,  and  if  we 
struggle,  if  we  toil,  if  we  pray,  we  can 
reach  that  point  at  which  our  lives  be- 
come that  which  dwells  in  the  ocean 
of  Truth,  beneath  the  waves,  beyond  the 
reach  of  tempests,  in  the  Eternal  Calm! 

"God  give  me  the  serenity  to  accept 
the  things  I  cannot  change,  the  courage 
to  change  the  things  I  can,  and  the 
wisdom  to  know  the  difference." 

Predicated  upon  the  principles  of 
discipline,  restraint,  control,  forever 
shall  we  reign,  kings  and  pries+s  to  the 
Most  High,  redeemed,  sanctified,  and 
exalted  through  our  Lord  and  God,  Jesus 
the  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Tho^e  two  young  men  represent  over 
100,000.  God  bless  them.  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren,  I  appreciate  this  privilege 
of  having  a  part  with  you  in  tbe  gen- 
eral priesthood  conference  of  the  Church. 
I  have  been  greatly  stimulated  as  I  am 
sure  you  have  by  the  messages  of  these 
fine  young  men  who  have  talked  to  us  so 
interestingly  about  the  importance  of 
controlling  our  own  lives. 


One  of  the  most  inspiring  messages 
in  all  sacred  scripture  is  the  story  of 
the  sixth  day  of  creation  when  God  made 
man  in  his  own  image.  He  also  endowed 
him  with  a  set  of  his  own  attributes. 
Then,  as  the  very  climax  of  creation, 
God  gave  man  dominion  over  everything 
upon  the  earth,  including  himself.  The 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


78 

Saturday,  October  5 

dictionary  says  that  "dominion"  means 
control  or  the  power  to  govern.  The 
most  important  part  of  the  dominion 
given  to  man  was  self-dominion.  In  all 
of  creation,  it  was  only  to  man  that  God 
said,  ".  .  .  thou  mayest  choose  for  thy- 
self "  (Moses  3:17.) 

On  one  occasion  Joseph  Smith  was 
asked  to  explain  the  unusual  harmony 
existing  among  his  large  group  of 
church  members,  though  they  differed 
so  greatly  in  background,  nationality, 
and  experience.  The  Prophet  replied, 
"I  teach  the  people  correct  principles 
and  they  govern  themselves."  (Cited  by 
John  Taylor,  JD  10:57-58.) 

One  of  the  most  important  parts  of 
real  religion  is  to  qualify  ourselves  to 
govern  our  own  lives  effectively  and 
righteously.  Someone  has  said,  "He 
that  would  move  the  world,  must  first 
move  himself."  We  talk  a  great  deal 
about  the  fact  that  we  have  been  given 
the  priesthood.  The  priesthood  is  the 
authority  to  act  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord.  But  by  itself  that  is  not  enough. 
We  must  also  develop  the  "ability"  to 
act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  The  au- 
thority can  never  be  of  very  great 
consequence  without  the  ability.  That 
is,  how  much  benefit  would  be  derived 
from  having  the  authority  to  make  con- 
verts without  the  ability  to  make 
converts. 

The  most  inspiring  thing  about  the 
life  of  Jesus  was  not  his  ability  to  quiet 
the  storm  or  control  the  tempest,  but 
his  absolute  control  of  himself.  The 
Master  did  not  need  to  make  a  single 
mistake  in  order  to  find  out  that  it  was 
wrong.  We  have  developed  a  fairly 
good  control  over  some  of  our  body 
members;  for  example,  I  have  great  au- 
thority over  my  finger.  If  I  tell  it  to 
bend,  it  bends.  If  I  tell  it  to  unbend, 
it  unbends.  If  I  give  my  feet  an  order, 
they  obey  immediately,  and  we  will 
have  succeeded  in  our  religious  responsi- 
bility when  we  get  that  same  kind  of 
control  over  our  thoughts,  our  emotions, 
our  tongues,  our  industry,  our  faith,  and 
our  desire  to  serve  God.  Some  of  us  have 
mistrained  our  appetites  to  a  point  where 
we  tend  to  "think"  with  our  stomachs; 
that  is,  our  appetites  frequently  have 
more  influence  in  directing  our  lives 
than  our  reason  or  even  the  command- 


Second  Day 

ments  of  God.  This  same  misuse  of  our 
powers  frequently  gives  our  fears,  our 
doubts,  our  prejudices,  our  hates,  and 
our  sex  impulses  the  control  of  our  lives. 
Before  we  can  be  successful  in  our  God- 
given  dominion,  our  emotions  must  be 
brought  under  the  direction  of  the  spirit. 

St.  Augustine  said,  "Wouldst  thou 
have  thy  flesh  obey  thy  spirit?  Then 
have  thy  spirit  obey  thy  God.  Thou  must 
be  governed,  if  thou  wouldst  govern." 
And  only  when  we  properly  govern 
ourselves  according  to  what  is  right, 
can  we  escape  the  destructive  rule  of 
our  moods  and  appetites. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh  said,  "A  man  must 
first  govern  himself,  ere  he  be  fit  to 
govern  a  family;  and  his  family,  ere  he 
is  fit  to  bear  the  government  in  the 
commonwealth." 

Each  of  us  has  been  given  a  mag- 
nificent instrument  called  a  brain, 
which  was  intended  to  play  a  much 
more  prominent  part  in  our  religious 
life  than  it  sometimes  does.  The  brain, 
not  the  feelings  or  the  passions,  was 
designated  by  God  to  be  the  presiding 
officer  of  the  personality.  And  when 
we  honor  the  authority  of  the  mind, 
we  become  masters  instead  of  slaves. 

A.  Bertha  Kleinman  has  written  the 
following  verse  about  self-mastery. 

SELF-MASTERY 

"What  tho  I  conquer  my  enemies, 

And  lay  up  store  and  pelf, 
I  am  a  conqueror  poor  indeed, 

Till  I  subdue  myself. 

"What  tho  I  read  and  learn  by  heart 
Whole  books  while  I  am  young, 

I  am  a  linguist  in  disgrace, 
Who  cannot  guard  my  tongue. 

"What  tho  on  campus  I  excel 
A  champ  in  meet  and  fight 

If  trained  efficient  still  I  can't 
Control  an  appetite. 

"What  tho  exemptions  write  my  name 

High  on  the  honor  roll 
Electives,  solids  fail  me  if 

I  learn  no  self-control. 

"And  tho  I  graduate  and  soar 

And  life  is  good  to  me, 
My  heart  shall  write  me  failure  till 

I  learn  self-mastery." 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


79 


Our  human  nature  is  made  up  of  an 
interesting  duality,  which  Jesus  re- 
ferred to  as  the  spirit  and  the  flesh, 
and  most  of  us  permit  a  constant  con- 
flict to  rage  between  the  two.  Plato 
refers  to  this  duality  as  an  upper  soul 
and  a  lower  soul.  He  describes  the 
lower  soul  as  the  dwelling  place  of 
weakness,  sin,  and  appetite,  whereas  the 
upper  soul  is  the  residence  of  the  intel- 
lect; it  is  the  headquarters  of  reason 
and  the  operational  base  of  judgment 
and  righteousness.  On  this  battle  ground 
the  fate  of  each  of  us  is  being  decided 
daily.  Each  individual  is  tending  to- 
ward his  natural  status  of  king  or  slave. 
As  we  overcome  the  unworthy  elements 
within  ourselves,  we  become  masters, 
capable  of  ruling  our  lives  in  wisdom 
with  righteous  power.  As  we  surrender 
to  our  appetites,  we  become  slaves.  The 
alcoholic,  the  immoral,  the  dishonest, 
the  profane,  and  the  idle  are  losing  the 
battle  to  the  lower  soul  by  allow- 
ing themselves  too  many  lower  soul 
experiences. 

The  one  business  of  life  is  to  succeed, 
and  one  of  our  greatest  Christian  duties 
is  to  organize  and  supervise  ourselves 
for  righteous  accomplishment.  We 
must  be  more  successful  in  disciplining 
the  mind  and  training  the  will.  Some- 
one has  pointed  out  that  "planning"  is 
the  place  where  man  shows  himself 
most  like  God.  Who  could  be  more 
Godlike  than  one  who  intelligently 
plans  his  own  life?  He  is  the  one  who 
blueprints  accomplishment  and  builds 
the  roadway  of  success.  The  highest 
paid  man  in  the  army  is  the  general. 
He  is  the  one  who  "thinks"  and  "plans" 
for  the  army.  But  each  of  us  is  the 
general  of  his  own  life,  and  each  is 
also  his  own  soldier.  As  generals,  our 
job  is  to  work  out  a  better  program  for 
ourselves  as  soldiers,  and  the  more  skil- 
ful we  are  as  generals,  the  more  suc- 
cessful we  will  be  as  soldiers. 

Sometime  ago  I  spent  a  few  hours 
with  a  group  of  missionaries.  We  were 
discussing  missionary  work  under  the 
two  great  headings  of  the  "message" 
and  the  "messenger."  We  are  halfway 
to  success  when  we  understand  the  tre- 
mendous importance  of  the  message 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  again 
been  restored  to  the  earth  with  the  au- 


thority to  officiate  in  all  of  the  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  having 
to  do  with  the  celestial  kingdom.  But 
no  great  message  is  ever  delivered 
without  a  great  messenger.  Inasmuch 
as  the  professional  approach  to  any 
accomplishment  is  first  to  isolate  the 
problem,  I  said  to  the  missionaries, 
"Before  I  can  be  of  much  help  to  you, 
I  need  to  know  what  your  problems 
are.  Will  each  of  you  tell  me  in  one 
word  why  you're  not  ten  times  as  effec- 
tive as  you  are?" 

As  the  answers  were  given,  we  wrote 
them  on  the  blackboard.  However, 
when  we  analyzed  them  we  found  that 
every  single  one  of  them  had  to  do 
with  the  "messenger,"  none  of  them 
was  about  the  message.  I  said  to  them, 
"I'm  going  back  to  church  headquarters 
in  the  morning,  and  I  would  like  to  be 
able  to  report  what's  wrong  with  the 
message."  But  no  one  had  any  complaint 
with  the  message.  Their  only  problems 
involved  changing  the  messenger. 

One  missionary  said,  "I  can't  be  a 
good  missionary  because  I  am  not 
friendly." 

I  said,  'What  do  you  mean?" 

He  said,  "Well,  my  companion  loves 
everyone,  and  everyone  loves  him.  Our 
contacts  all  gather  around  him,  but 
because  I  am  not  that  kind  of  a  person 
I  am  left  by  myself." 

I  said,  "Would  you  show  me  what 
you  mean  by  going  down  this  aisle  and 
shaking  hands  with  these  people  the 
way  you  ordinarily  do  it?" 

In  complying  he  did  his  usual  unim- 
pressive job.  Then  I  said  to  him,  "Now, 
will  you  go  down  this  other  aisle  and 
shake  hands  with  these  other  people  the 
way  your  companion  does  it?" 

Then  he  squared  his  shoulders,  got  a 
little  different  look  in  his  eye  and  a 
little  different  tension  in  his  muscles  as 
he  tried  to  demonstrate  to  me  how  his 
companion  did  it.  He  seemed  to  be  an 
immediate  success  while  following  the 
example  of  his  companion.  I  told  him 
about  the  famous  "As  If"  principle  of 
William  James.  Mr.  James  said  if 
you  want  to  have  a  quality  act  "As  If" 
you  already  had  it.  If  you  want  to  be 
friendly,  act  "As  If"  you  are  already 
friendly.  How  long  does  it  take  one 
to  learn  to  be  friendly?    It  takes  just 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


80 

Saturday,  October  5 

one-quarter  of  a  second,  just  long 
enough  to  make  up  your  mind  to  prac- 
tise the  "As  If"  principle.  If  you  want 
to  be  brave,  act  "As  If"  you  were  already 
brave,  don't  go  around  telling  everyone 
how  scared  and  weak  you  are.  It  is  the 
axiom  of  the  theater  that  each  actor 
should  live  his  part. 

On  one  occasion  Theodore  Roosevelt 
was  decorating  one  of  his  generals  for 
bravery.  He  said,  "This  is  the  bravest 
man  that  I  have  ever  seen."  He  said, 
"He  walked  right  behind  me  all  the 
way  up  San  Juan  Hill."  Theodore 
Roosevelt  was  a  sickly  child.  He  began 
life  as  a  weakling,  not  expected  to  live; 
but  he  trained  himself  to  think  courage, 
strength,  health,  and  vitality,  and  that 
is  what  he  got.  One  of  the  things  that 
frightens  me  most  as  I  go  about  a  little 
bit  is  to  hear  so  many  people  talking 
weakness,  failure,  and  sin.  The  most 
widespread  disease  in  the  world  is  the 
inferiority  complex.  And  when  we  think 
inferiority,  that  is  what  we  get.  Another 
missionary  described  his  problem  by 
saying,  "I  can't  concentrate."  I  said, 
"What  do  you  plan  doing  about  it?" 
He  said,  "There's  nothing  I  can  do;  I 
just  can't  concentrate."  One  of  our 
most  unfortunate  weaknesses  is  that 
we  sometimes  think  we  are  under  sen- 
tence to  remain  forever  as  we  presently 
are.  Yet  one  of  the  most  exciting  ideas 
in  life  is  the  possibility  of  changing 
ourselves  for  the  better. 

William  James  said,  "The  greatest 
discovery  of  my  generation  is  that  we 
can  change  our  circumstances  by  chang- 
ing our  attitudes  of  mind."  A  lot  of 
people  want  to  change  their  circum- 
stances, but  few  are  willing  to  change 
themselves.  It  is  very  interesting, 
however,  that  the  problem  that  these 
missionaries  seemed  to  have  the  most 
difficulty  with,  was  that  of  getting  the 
beds  off  their  backs  in  the  morning.  I 
brought  away  a  mental  picture  timed  at 
6:00  am  snowing  these  missionaries 
pulling  and  struggling  trying  to  get  up, 
with  the  mattress  being  successful  in 
holding  them  down.  Isn't  it  ridiculous 
that  we  sometimes  live  through  an  en- 
tire lifetime  and  never  learn  to  get  up 
in  the  morning?  The  Church  is  now 
133  years  old,  and  some  of  us  have 
barely  made  a  start  in  living  the  "mes- 


Second  Day 

sage"  because  we  have  exhausted  our 
strength  struggling  with  the  messenger. 
So  far  as  I  know  almost  every  problem 
that  holds  us  back  involves  a  misuse 
of  this  God-given  dominion.  Certainly 
we  need  a  better  mastery  of  the  mes- 
sage, but  we  also  have  a  lot  more  work 
to  do  on  the  messenger. 

Solomon  said,  "With  all  thy  getting, 
get  wisdom."  (See  Prov.  4:7.)  And  then 
someone  that  must  have  been  much 
wiser  than  Solomon  said,  "With  all 
thy  getting,  get  going."  George  Bernard 
Shaw  touched  our  problem  when  he 
said  that  the  primary  occupation  of  life 
is  taking  a  mob  of  appetites,  and  organ- 
izing them  into  an  army  of  purposes 
and  ambitions. 

It  is  a  very  significant  point  of  view 
that  every  human  being  has  been  given 
two  creators.  One  is  God,  and  the  other 
is  himself.  That  is,  the  creation  of 
man  is  not  something  that  was  finished 
and  done  with  in  the  Garden  of  Eden. 
The  creation  of  man  is  still  going  on. 
It  is  taking  place  today,  and  it  took 
place  last  week,  and  it  will  take  place 
next  month,  and  you  are  the  creator. 
That  is,  you  are  currently  creating  the 
enthusiasms  and  the  industry  and  the 
courage  and  the  faith  that  will  deter- 
mine what  your  lives  will  be  throughout 
eternity.  Someone  has  asked  this  interest- 
ing question:  "How  would,  you  like  to 
create  your  own  mind?"  But  isn't  that 
exactly  what  everyone  does? 

William  James  said,  "The  mind  is 
made  up  by  what  it  feeds  upon."  The 
mind  becomes  what  God  intended  it 
should  be,  only  when  it  is  fed  on 
enough  upper  soul  experiences.  It  has 
been  said  that  "the  mind  like  the  dvcr's 
hand,  is  colored  by  what  it  holds." 
That  is,  if  I  hold  in  my  hand  a  sponge 
full  of  purple  dye,  my  hand  becomes 
purple,  and  if  I  hold  in  my  mind  and 
heart  great  ideas  of  honor,  righteous- 
ness, industry,  and  the  love  of  truth,  my 
whole  personality  is  colored  accordingly. 
And  our  self-dominion  is  made  more 
effective  when  we  make  love  to  the 
right  kind  of  ideas,  and  refuse  all  lower 
soul  experiences.  While  Cain  was  train- 
ing himself  to  ".  .  .  love  Satan  more 
than  God  .  .  ."  (Moses  5:18),  he  was 
giving  dominion  to  his  lower  soul.  This 
is  a  process  that  many  frequently  fol- 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


81 


low.  Sometime  ago  a  young  man  dis- 
cussed with  me  an  improper  marriage 
which  he  was  contemplating.  I  asked 
him  why.  He  said  he  was  in  love. 
But  love  alone  is  an  insufficient  basis 
for  marriage.  Anyone  can  fall  in  love 
with  anything.  Many  people  have 
fallen  in  love  with  idleness,  profanity, 
adultery,  and  drunkenness.  Cain  fell 
in  love  with  Satan. 

A  chain  smoker  was  recently  ordered 
by  his  doctor  to  give  up  smoking.  He 
had  fallen  in  love  with  cigarets,  and 
he  felt  very  sorry  for  himself  that  he 
was  now  being  forced  to  give  up  his 
bad  habit.  He  said,  "What  good  could 
it  possibly  do  me  to  quit  smoking  when 
I  have  to  stand  over  myself  like  a 
policeman  with  a  club,  ordering  myself 
to  do  something  that  I  don't  want  to 
do?"  It  is  pretty  difficult  to  force  our- 
selves to  be  decent  or  successful  while 
we  are  in  love  with  sin  and  failure. 

There  is  a  lower  soul  psychology  that 
says  that  the  way  to  develop  the  per- 
sonality is  to  give  expression  to  our 
desires.  It  says  that  parents  should  not 
say  "no"  to  their  children  because  of 
the  possibility  of  dwarfing  their  per- 
sonalities. If  a  child  feels  like  slamming 
the  door,  he  should  slam  it.  If  he  feels 
like  sowing  some  wild  oats,  he  should 
sow  them.  It  says  that  desires  should 
be  expressed,  otherwise  the  child's 
growth  may  be  inhibited  and  his  per- 
sonality distorted.  This  philosophy  has 
made  a  great  contribution  to  our  up- 
surge in  juvenile  and  adult  delinquency. 
We  might  bring  some  upper  soul 
philosophy  to  bear  on  this  point  by  a 
review  of  the  Ten  Commandments.  Yet, 
a  prominent  minister  recently  said  that 
the  Ten  Commandments  should  no 
longer  be  used  as  the  basis  for  religious 
training.  He  said  that  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments gave  young  people  the  idea 
that  the  church  was  a  wet  blanket.  He 
said  the  dictatorial  "Thou  shalt  nots" 
were  not  in  good  taste  any  more.  He 
said,  "In  my  church  I  no  longer  refer 
to  the  Ten  Commandments."  He  didn't 
say  whether  or  not  he  thought  chastity, 
honesty,  and  worship  should  be  done 
away  with,  or  whether  God  had 
changed  his  mind  about  these  values, 
but  only  that  he  had  convinced  him- 
self that  the  Ten  Commandments  were 


outmoded  and  no  longer  useful. 

Another  religious  leader  said  that  the 
stern  command  "Thou  shalt  not"  was 
much  too  harsh  for  our  present-day 
sensitivity,  and  he  suggested  that  the 
form  of  the  commandments  should  be 
modified  and  some  softer  word  such 
as  "advise"  or  "suggest"  or  "recom- 
mend" be  used.  We  make  one  of  our 
most  serious  mistakes  when  we  become 
too  soft  to  accept  truth  unless  it  is 
highly  sugar  coated.  We  settle  too 
many  of  our  problems  by  compromise, 
or  how  we  feel,  rather  than  by  what 
is  right.  Frequently  we  would  rather 
be  ruined  by  praise  than  saved  by  criti- 
cism. It  is  pretty  serious  business  when 
we  turn  our  backs  on  good  merely  be- 
cause we  don't  like  someone's  tone  of 
voice  or  because  what  is  said  doesn't 
quite  suit  our  fancy. 

The  story  is  told  of  a  father  and  a 
son  riding  down  the  highway.  The 
son  was  explaining  to  the  father  what 
he  didn't  like  about  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. He  said  they  were  nega- 
tive and  besides  that  he  didn't  like  any- 
one telling  him  what  not  to  do.  Soon 
they  came  to  an  intersection  in  the 
highway.  There  was  one  signboard 
telling  where  the  left-hand  road  led, 
and  another  signboard  telling  where  the 
right-hand  road  led.  The  father  took 
the  wrong  road.  This  greatly  disturbed 
the  son.  He  couldn't  understand  how 
the  father  could  make  such  a  ridiculous 
mistake.  The  father  admitted  that  he 
had  read  the  signboard,  but  he  said,  "I 
just  don't  want  any  signboard  telling 
me  where  to  go." 

For  our  benefit  God  has  erected  some 
signboards  of  right  and  wrong,  and 
when  we  are  headed  toward  destruction 
the  sign  is  flashed  saying,  "Thou  shalt 
not."  What  we  do  from  there  on, 
however,  is  strictly  up  to  us.  Sometime 
ago  I  read  one  of  Lincoln's  antislavery 
debates.  Lincoln's  opponent  had  said, 
"You  can't  afford  to  free  the  southern 
slaves,  because  there  are  some  four 
million  of  them.  Each  has  a  value 
to  his  owner  of  approximately  $1,000. 
That  is,  if  you  free  the  slaves  you  will 
upset  the  economy  of  this  little  group 
of  slave  owners  by  some  four  billion 
dollars  which  they  can't  afford,  but  in 
addition  who  will  take  care  of  the 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

corn,  the  cotton,  and  the  tobacco  crops." 

When  Lincoln  came  to  the  platform, 
he  brushed  all  of  these  considerations 
aside  as  immaterial.  He  said,  "There 
is  only  one  question  that  we  need  to 
answer  about  slavery,  and  that  is  this: 
Is  slavery  right  or  is  it  wrong?  Is  it 
right  for  some  men  to  hold  other  men 
in  bondage?"  Now  I  hope  that  some- 
time when  you  have  a  problem  that  is 
causing  you  difficulty,  you  will  remem- 
ber Lincoln's  formula  of  right  and 
wrong. 

Sometime  ago  it  was  reported  that  an 
engineer  was  discharged  from  his  em- 
ployment. He  asked  his  employer  for 
the  reason.  The  employer  said,  "You 
allowed  us  to  make  a  wrong  decision 
which  cost  us  considerable  money."  The 
engineer  said,  "But  certainly  you  re- 
member that  I  advised  you  against 
making  that  decision."  The  employer 
said,  "Yes,  I  know  that  you  did,  but  you 
didn't  pound  the  table  when  you 
did  it." 

The  Lord  didn't  make  that  mistake 
when  he  gave  the  Ten  Commandments. 
He  pounded  the  table  and  tried  to  make 
the  occasion  as  memorable  as  possible, 
and  he  expects  us  to  be  equally  force- 
ful in  carrying  out  his  instructions.  I 
would  like  to  read  to  you  a  description 
of  the  setting  in  which  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments were  given.  It  gives  us  an 
atmosphere  for  shaping  our  own 
dominion. 

The  scripture  says,  "And  it  came  to 
pass  on  the  third  day  in  the  morning, 
that  there  were  thunders  and  lightnings, 
and  a  thick  cloud  upon  the  mount,  and 
the  voice  of  the  trumpet  exceedingly 
loud;  so  that  all  the  people  that  was  in 
the  camp  trembled. 

"And  Moses  brought  forth  the  people 
out  of  the  camp  to  meet  with  God;  and 
they  stood  at  the  nether  part  of  the 
mount. 

"And  mount  Sinai  was  altogether  on 
a  smoke,  because  the  Lord  descended 
upon  it  in  fire:  and  the  smoke  thereof 
ascended  as  the  smoke  of  a  furnace, 
and  the  whole  mount  quaked  greatly." 
(Exod.  19:16-18.)  I  seriously  doubt  that 
the  Lord  has  changed  his  mind  since 
then. 

God  himself  cannot  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance.  He 


Second  Day 

permits  none  of  it  in  his  presence.  But 
he  has  said,  ".  .  .  nevertheless  thou  may- 
est  choose  for  thyself."  (Moses  3:17.) 
He  has  given  us  dominion  that  we 
might  develop  our  own  lives.  Aristotle 
once  told  Alexander  the  Great  that  the 
most  dangerous  enemy  that  ever  con- 
fronted an  army  was  never  in  the  ranks 
of  the  foe,  but  always  in  your  own 
camp.  And  that  is  a  good  thing  for  us 
to  remember.  Suppose  we  ask  ourselves 
who  is  the  greatest  enemy  of  America? 
It  isn't  Russia  or  China  or  Cuba;  that  is 
ridiculous.  Who  causes  our  strikes  and 
brings  about  our  racial  strife?  Who 
robs  our  banks  and  causes  our  many 
kinds  of  delinquency?  Who  is  it  that 
makes  our  political  blunders,  gives  us  a 
bad  name  abroad,  and  causes  our  weak- 
nesses at  home?  Or  who  is  responsible 
for  our  individual  sins  and  keeps  us 
ignorant,  lethargic,  and  unsuccessful? 

The  Lord  suggested  the  answer,  when 
on  September  22,  1832,  he  gave  a  great 
revelation  in  which  be  said  in  part, 
"And  now  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment to  beware  concerning  yourselves, 
.  .  ."  (D&C  84:43.)  Our  own  signs  say, 
"Beware  of  the  dog"  or  "Beware  of  the 
train"  or  "Beware  of  the  communists," 
but  the  Lord  gets  nearer  to  our  problem 
when  he  says  ".  .  .  beware  concerning 
yourselves.  .  .  ."  The  chief  character- 
istic of  sin,  and  the  chief  characteristic 
of  lack  of  success  is  our  failure  to  man- 
age our  thoughts,  our  attitudes,  and  our 
ambitions.  Pythagoras  said,  "No  man 
is  free  who  cannot  command  himself." 
And  we  might  add  that  no  man  is  cap- 
able of  making  the  most  and  the  best 
of  his  life  who  cannot  command  him- 
self. We  will  have  happiness  in  our 
homes,  success  in  our  work,  righteous- 
ness in  our  personal  lives,  and  eternal 
life  in  God's  presence,  only  as  we  learn 
self-mastery  and  develop  the  will-power 
to  put  it  in  force.  It  is  the  responsibility 
of  the  priesthood  to  prepare  the  way 
before  the  glorious  second  coming  of 
Christ.  It  is  our  personal  responsibility 
to  prepare  our  families  and  our  indi- 
vidual lives  for  celestial  glory,  and  we 
will  fail  or  succeed  in  exact  proportion 
as  we  get  dominion  over  our  own  lives. 
The  Lord  has  said,  ".  .  .  let  virtue  garn- 
ish thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  .  .  . 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


83 


stant  companion,  .  .  .  and  thy  dominion 
shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and 
without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever."  (Ibid., 
121:45-46.) 

Carl  Erskine,  the  great  former  Dodger 
baseball  pitcher,  once  said,  "I  never 
pray  to  win,  I  just  pray  to  be  in  my 
best  form."  What  a  thrilling  accom- 
plishment if  every  bearer  of  the  priest- 
hood was  always  in  his  best  form;  for 
even  one  man  can,  if  he  will,  change 
the  morale  of  a  whole  community.  Ed- 
ward Everett  Hale  once  said, 

"I  am  only  one, 
But  still  I  am  one. 
I  cannot  do  everything, 
But  still  I  can  do  something; 
And  because  I  cannot  do  everything 
I  will  not  refuse  to  do  the  something 
that  I  can  do." 


My  brethren  in  the  priesthood,  that 
the  Lord  will  help  us  to  get  dominion 
over  our  lives,  is  my  prayer  which  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Richard  P.  Condie  will  now 
lead  the  congregation  and  Chorus  in 
singing  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

The  congregation  and  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Men's  Chorus  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "Redeemer  Of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  the  man 
whom  you  have  sustained  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren,  if  I  had  the  authority,  I  think 
I  would  dismiss  this  meeting.  I  have  cer- 
tainly enjoyed  the  messages  given  by 
these  two  young  men  and  Brother  Sill. 
I  was  thrilled,  inspired,  and  encouraged, 
and  my  testimony  was  strengthened. 

There  are  370  places  in  which  our 
young  men,  and  men  not  so  young, 
holding  the  priesthood  are  meeting  to- 
night. If  there  are  20  young  men  in 
each  place,  and  I  think  I  am  being 
conservative,  we  have  7,500  young  men 
holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  assem- 
bled out  away  from  this  Temple  Square. 
When  they  heard  the  messages  of  these 
two  boys,  I  am  sure  they  were  happy 
to  be  one  of  those  holding  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood. 

The  priesthood  is  the  power  of  God 
delegated  to  man  to  act  in  his  name. 
What  a  thrilling  thing  that  is  to  think 
about;  our  young  men  throughout  the 
Church,  their  fathers  and  their  older 
brothers  having  that  authorityl  I  think 
of  the  young  deacon  passing  the  Sacra- 
ment, the  emblems  of  the  great  sacrifice 
that  was  made  by  our  Savior.  You 
know,  when  the  Savior  was  here  upon 
this  continent,  he  asked  the  apostles 
to  pass  the  Sacrament,  and  then  others 


were  called  and  appointed  and  given  the 
authority  to  do  this  and  other  things 
as  well — then  think  of  our  boys  who 
are  deacons,  passing  the  Sacrament  to 
the  people!  Then  think  of  the  teachers 
out  teaching  the  gospel  to  the  people, 
warning  them,  helping  them,  and  en- 
couraging them  to  live  the  gospel 
teachings!  I  think  of  these  young  priests 
holding  the  priesthood,  which  is  the 
power  of  God,  going  into  the  waters  of 
baptism  to  baptize  a  person.  They  have 
the  same  power  and  authority  to  baptize 
that  the  apostles,  and  even  Christ  him- 
self, had.  These  young  men  at  the  age 
of  19  and  20  are  ordained  elders.  They 
are  then  called  to  go  out  into  the  mis- 
sion field.  They  are  commissioned  by 
Jesus  Christ,  through  those  having  au- 
thority, and  are  ordained  and  set  apart 
as  ambassadors  of  the  Lord.  There  are 
12,000  of  these  young  men  in  the  field 
today,  holding  the  priesthood,  and  as 
they  baptize  a  person,  that  baptism  is 
accepted  by  our  Heavenly  Father.  As 
they  confirm  a  person,  he  is  confirmed 
a  member  of  the  Church,  and  it  is 
binding  through  time  and  all  eternity. 
As  those  young  men  19  or  20  years  of 
age  lay  their  hands  upon  the  head  of  an 


84  GENERAL  ( 

Saturday,  October  5 

individual  and  ordain  him  a  deacon, 
teacher,  priest,  or  elder  and  bestow  upon 
him  all  the  authority  and  power  per- 
taining to  that  office  and  calling  in  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  he  is  accepted 
by  Jesus  Christ  and  becomes  a  member 
of  his  Church  and  his  kingdom. 

I  wonder  how  many  businessmen 
here  tonight  would  be  prepared  to  say 
to  those  12,000  young  men,  "You  go 
out  into  the  world,  and  I  will  accept 
your  judgment.  You  make  any  deal 
that  you  think  is  right  with  anybody 
you  think  you  can  depend  upon  and 
whom  you  can  trust,  and  I  will  honor 
the  agreement — I  will  pick  up  the  tab." 
I  would  just  like  to  ask  some  of  you 
businessmen  how  many  men  you  could 
pick  out  that  you  would  be  prepared  to 
send  out  into  the  world  and  say,  "This 
is  your  assignment,  and  I  will  honor 
whatever  you  do."  There  wouldn't  be 
many,  but  still  the  Lord  is  saying  to 
these  young  men  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood, as  they  go  out  into  the  field, 
"Anything  you  do  in  the  power  of  the 
priesthood  and  in  my  name,  I  will 
honor." 

Then  I  see  these  young  men — these 
deacons,  these  teachers,  and  these 
priests  present  here  tonight— all  pre- 
paring themselves  for  this  call  as  mis- 
sionaries. I  was  proud  of  these  two 
young  men,  and  I  could  just  see  thou- 
sands of  them  throughout  the  world, 
preparing  themselves  to  accept  that 
great  responsibility  as  missionaries. 

Boys,  keep  this  in  mind.  It  is  a  great 
honor;  it  is  a  great  privilege;  it  is  a  great 
blessing  to  hold  the  priesthood  of  God. 
You  are  the  only  people  in  all  the 
world  who  hold  the  priesthood.  What  a 
privilegel  And  I  say,  following  what 
Brother  Sill  said  tonight,  it  is  so  im- 
portant that  you  not  only  want  to  do 
what  is  right,  but  you  have  to  determine 
what  you  wish  to  do,  and  make  up  your 
mind  that  you  are  going  to  do  it,  and 
then  set  about  to  discipline  yourselves 
as  these  two  young  men  told  us  we 
should  discipline  ourselves.  That  is 
simple.  That  is  all  that  you  have  to 
do — decide  what  you  want  to  do  to  be 
happy  and  to  be  worthy  of  the  priest- 
hood, so  that  you  can  speak  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  have 
that  accepted. 


Second  Day 

So,  boys,  as  you  go  into  this  great 
program  of  the  Church  and  into  the 
great  challenges  that  are  given  to  you 
as  you  go  into  life,  make  up  your  minds 
what  you  want  to  be.  Of  course,  you 
must  honor  your  parents.  They  are  the 
ones  that  gave  you  life.  They  looked 
after  you  when  you  couldn't  do  anything 
but  cry  and  squirm.  They  fed  and 
clothed  you.  They  have  given  you 
the  education  that  you  have  and  the 
opportunities  that  are  yours.  You  are 
mighty  poor  sports  and  not  very  good 
citizens  if  you  won't  honor  your  parents. 

But,  when  it  comes  to  determining 
what  you  are  going  to  do  in  life,  you 
make  up  your  own  minds.  They  have 
given  you  plenty  of  teaching.  Obey 
them,  but  when  it  comes  to  this  deci- 
sion, "Just  what  do  I  want  out  of  life?" 
you  determine  what  you  want  and  set 
about  to  do  what  you  want  to  do.  But 
sit  down  and  be  sure  you  have  decided 
what  you  want  to  do.  I  don't  think 
there  is  a  young  man  within  the  sound 
of  my  voice  tonight  that  would  choose 
to  do  wrong.  As  this  young  man  said, 
those  men  that  are  in  Sing  Sing  didn't 
want  to  be  there,  that  isn't  what  they 
set  out  to  do.  But,  they  had  not  made 
up  their  minds  strongly  enough  as  to 
what  they  did  want  to  do  to  go  about 
it  with  a  determination  to  discipline 
themselves  and  do  the  things  that  would 
make  life  really  what  they  wanted. 

So,  talk  to  yourselves  and  say  to 
yourselves,  "Just  what  do  I  want  out 
of  life?"  Make  up  your  mind  and  have 
the  courage  and  the  strength,  the  de- 
termination and  the  discipline  to  do  it. 
Don't  let  the  devil,  himself,  get  in  your 
way.  He  is  certainly  going  to  try,  and 
he  will  be  there  all  the  time,  watching 
for  a  place  to  interfere  with  your  pro- 
gram. But,  how  successful  and  how 
happy  you  will  be,  and  what  joy  you 
will  experience,  as  you  follow  the  pro- 
gram that  you  have  set  out  for  yourself. 
Be  man  enough  to  say,  "This  is  what  I 
am  going  to  do." 

I  have  a  definition  of  will  power 
which  I  use,  and  will  power  is  so  im- 
portant in  the  program  you  have  chosen. 
Will  power  is  the  power  to  do  what 
you  want  to  do  when  you  don't  want 
to  do  it.  Brother  Sill  said  these  mis- 
sionaries want  to  get  up  at  six  o'clock; 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


85 


but  when  six  o'clock  comes  in  the 
morning,  they  don't  want  to  do  it. 
And  will  power  is  the  power  to  do  it 
then,  and  you  will  find  that  as  you  go 
on  through  life. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  you  young 
men  that  you  have  a  great  influence  in 
the  world.  How  much  greater  your  in- 
fluence would  be  if  everyone  of  you 
would  just  follow  the  advice  of  these 
two  young  men  who  spoke  to  you  to- 
night. I  need  not  add  anything  to  what 
they  have  said,  but  to  encourage  you  to 
realize  that  the  things  that  these  young 
men  have  said  are  the  things  that  will 
bring  joy  and  happiness  into  your  lives. 
Set  about  to  do  it — we  want  you  to 
be  happy. 

I  love  these  young  people  in  our 
Church.  I  love  young  people  wherever 
I  find  them,  and  if  there  is  anything 
I  can  do  to  help  them  be  happy,  to  be 
successful  in  life,  to  accomplish  the 
things  that  they  want  to  accomplish, 
that  is  the  thing  I  would  like  to  help 
them  do.  We  are  cognizant  of  the  fact 
that  you  are  going  to  have  temptations 
as  you  go  through  life — all  kinds  of 
temptations.  Your  young  friends  told 
you  about  them  tonight.  They  didn't 
go  into  detail,  but  you  are  going  to  have 
them.  But  make  up  your  mind  now 
what  you  are  going  to  do  and  what 
you  are  not  going  to  do. 

I  have  talked  to  hundreds  of  young 


people  who  have  had  problems,  and 
with  very  few  exceptions,  yes,  with  very 
few  exceptions,  it  is  because  they  have 
not  made  up  their  minds  what  they 
would  do  under  certain  circumstances. 
I  would  like  to  make  this  appeal  to 
young  men.  Honor  your  parents,  honor 
your  mother,  and  honor  womanhood. 
I  would  like  to  say  to  you  young  men 
who  hold  the  priesthood  of  God,  any 
girl  with  whom  you  go  has  a  right 
to  expect  you  to  protect  her,  to  look  out 
for  her  interests,  to  honor  her,  to  honor 
the  womanhood  in  her,  and  to  treat  her 
as  you  would  want  your  mother  or  your 
sister  to  be  treated.  She  has  a  perfect 
right  to  expect  that  and  to  feel  sure  that 
you  will  protect  her  virtue  with 
your  lives. 

Brethren,  it  is  a  great  honor  to  hold 
the  priesthood  of  God.  Magnify  your 
priesthood,  and  it  will  magnify  you. 
You  will  have  joy  and  happiness  while 
you  sojourn  upon  this  earth,  and  as  you 
finish  your  mission  here,  you  will  be 
worthy  to  go  back  into  the  presence  of 
our  Father.  That  is  my  testimony  to 
you,  and  my  prayer  for  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the 
First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Like  Elder  Tanner,  I  have  thoroughly 
appreciated  what  has  been  said  here 
tonight.  We  have  all  been  inspired  by 
these  young  men  and  by  the  forthright, 
inspired  talk  of  Elder  Sill  and  the  won- 
derful testimony  of  President  Tanner.  I 
shall  not  attempt  to  add  to  the  subject 
which  has  been  so  well  discussed  to- 
night except  to  give  you  a  few  quota- 
tions, and  then  for  a  few  moments 
discuss  another  phase  of  our  work. 

From  Sir  Walter  Scott:  "Teach  self- 
denial,  and  make  its  practice  pleasure- 
able,  and  you  can  create  for  the  world 
a  destiny  more  sublime  than  ever  issued 
from  the  brain  of  the  wildest  dreamer." 

And  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  wrote: 


"You  cannot  run  away  from  a  weak- 
ness. You  must  sometime  fight  it  out 
or  perish,  and  if  that  be  so  why  not 
now,  and  where  you  stand." 

And  another  has  said,  "Decision  de- 
termines destiny.  There  is  absolutely 
no  greatness  that  is  not  buffeted  with 
goodness.  Brace  to  the  splendid  day's 
work.   Keep  fit.   Be  a  man." 

Many  times  I  have  quoted,  and  no 
doubt  many  of  you  have  memorized  the 
clarion  call  for  men  to  match  our  mes- 
sage and  our  times: 

"God  give  us  men!   A  time  like  this 
demands 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith 
and  ready  hands. 
Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not 
kill; 

Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  can- 
not buy; 

"Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will; 
Men  who  have  honor — men  who  will 
not  lie; 

Men  who  can  stand  before  the  dema- 
gogue 

And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries 
without  winking; 
Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above 
the  fog 

In  public  duty  and  in  private  think- 
ing; .  .  ."  (Josiah  Gilbert  Holland.) 

Each  one  of  us  must  live  with  himself 
throughout  eternity,  and  each  one  is 
now  working  on  the  kind  of  man  he 
must  live  with  throughout  eternity.  Let 
us  determine  for  ourselves  the  kind  of 
man  our  eternal  companion  is  to  be. 
I  say  now  is  the  time  to  act:  It  is  neither 
too  early  nor  too  late. 

Some  young  men  say,  "When  I  get 
older,  I  will  do  something  worthwhile 
but  let  me  enjoy  my  carefree  youth." 
Let  me  bring  to  your  attention  a  few 
examples  of  young  men  who  did  things 
while  they  were  young. 

Jefferson  was  33  years  old  when  he 
drafted  the  Declaration  of  Independence. 

Benjamin  Franklin  was  26  when  he 
wrote  Poor  Richard's  Almanac. 

Dickens  was  24  when  he  began  his 
Pickwick  Papers  and  25  when  he  wrote 
Oliver  Twist. 

McCormack  was  only  23  when  he 
invented  the  reaper,  and  Newton  was 
24  when  he  formulated  the  law  of 
gravitation. 

May  I  add  to  this  quotation,  Joseph 
Smith  was  less  than  15  when  he  had 
his  first  vision,  23  when  he  translated 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  24  when  the 
Church  was  organized,  and  he  died  a 
young  man  at  38 — yet  he  left  an  imprint 
upon  this  world  second  only  to  that  of 
Christ  the  Lord. 

Jesus  Christ  himself  was  only  30  when 
he  began  his  transcendent  mission 
which  lasted  only  three  years  but  af- 
fected the  whole  world  and  will  yet 
redeem  it. 

Well,  now,  you  older  men,  has  your 


Second  Day 

chance  passed?  You  high  priests,  seven- 
ties, and  elders,  is  it  too  late  for  you 
to  do  something  worthwhile?  Let  me 
bring  you  another  set  of  figures: 

Immanuel  Kant  was  74  when  he 
wrote  his  finest  philosophical  work. 

Verdi  was  80  when  he  produced 
Falstaff  and  84  when  he  produced 
"Ave  Maria." 

Goethe  was  80  when  he  completed 
Faust. 

Tennyson  was  80  when  he  wrote 
"Crossing  the  Bar." 

Michelangelo  completed  his  greatest 
work  at  87. 

Titian,  at  98,  painted  the  historic  pic- 
ture, "The  Battle  of  Lepanto." 

Justice  Holmes  was  90  when  he  was 
still  writing  brilliant  opinions. 

George  Bernard  Shaw  was  88  and  was 
superbly  chauvinistic. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  past  90, 
is  recognized  world-wide  as  a  dynamic 
and  inspired  religious  leader.  He  is 
carrying  a  load  which  would  buckle  the 
knees  of  many  younger  men.  At  his 
advanced  age  he  still  leads  us,  shows 
us  the  way,  and  sets  the  pace. 

But  perhaps  some  of  you  say,  "Well, 
I  have  some  handicaps."  Sarah  Bern- 
hardt had  as  her  motto,  "In  spite  of 
everything."  Paul  Speicher  writing  in 
one  of  the  magazines  about  what  hap- 
pens to  men  who  refuse  to  be  stopped, 
reminds  us  of  some  statistics,  reminds 
us  of  what  can  happen  to  a  man  if  he 
has  the  will  to  do,  and  knows  what 
he  wants  to  do. 

"Cripple  a  man  and  you  have  a  Sir 
Walter  Scott;  put  him  in  prison  and 
you  have  a  Bunyan;  bury  him  in  the 
snow  at  Valley  Forge  and  you  have  a 
George  Washington;  have  him  born  in 
abject  poverty  and  you  have  an  Abra- 
ham Lincoln;  load  him  with  bitter 
racial  prejudice  and  you  have  a  Disraeli; 
afflict  him  with  asthma  until  as  a  boy 
he  lies  choking  in  his  father's  arms  and 
you  have  a  Theodore  Roosevelt;  stab 
him  with  rheumatic  pains  until  for 
years  he  cannot  sleep  without  an  opiate 
and  you  have  a  Steinmetz;  put  him  in 
a  grease  pit  in  a  locomotive  round 
house  and  you  have  a  Walter  P. 
Chrysler;  make  him  a  second  fiddle  in 
an  obscure  orchestra  in  South  America 
and  you  have  a  Toscanini." 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


87 


History  rests  on  the  shoulders  of  those 
who  accepted  the  challenge  of  difficul- 
ties and  drove  through  to  victory  in 
spite  of  everything.  I  want  to  add  this 
thought  on  self-control,  decisions,  de- 
termination, faith  in  God  and  in 
yourself. 

"You  may  be  what  you  will  to  be, 
Let  cowards  find  their  false  content 
In  that  poor  word,  environment, 
But  spirit  scorns  it  and  is  free. 
"It  conquers  time;  it  masters  space; 
It  cows  the  boastful  trickster,  chance, 
And  bids  the  tyrant  circumstance 
Uncrown  and  fill  a  servant's  place. 

"The  human  will,  that  force  unseen, 
The  offspring  of  a  deathless  soul, 
Can  hew  its  way  to  any  goal, 
Though  walls  of  granite  intervene." 

I  wish  all  the  priesthood  members  of 
the  Church  would  obtain  and  read  and 
study  the  masterful  address  of  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  delivered  last 
Friday  morning.  It  will  be  published  in 
the  Church  Section  of  the  News  and 
in  other  periodicals,  the  Era  later,  and 
in  the  Conference  Report.  Obtain  it, 
study  it,  read  it.  Do  you  know  how 
long  it  took  President  McKay  to  pre- 
pare that  talk?  I  haven't  asked  him, 
but  I  think  it  took  him  90  years,  because 
what  he  said  came  right  out  of  his 
heart,  and  what  is  in  his  heart  he  has 
been  building  into  that  heart  for  90 
years.  Now  if  it  took  him  90  years  to 
prepare  it,  do  you  think  you  can  get 
all  there  is  in  it  in  one  reading?  Get 
it,  study  it,  apply  it  in  your  lives. 

I  suggest  you  read  the  talks  of  other 
General  Authorities  who  have  spoken 
here  today  in  the  other  meetings.  Study 
them,  follow  the  counsel,  and  you  will 
be  blessed.  May  I  suggest  especially 
that  you  read  the  talk  of  Elder  Critch- 
low  on  priesthood — one  of  the  best  I 
have  heard.  And  then  obtain  and  read, 
especially  you  fathers,  what  Brother 
Packer  said  this  afternoon  about  the 
responsibility  of  fatherhood.  On  that 
subject  may  I  read  what  many  of  you 
have  heard  before.  It  applies  to  every 
father  and  to  you  young  men  who  will 
be  fathers.   Fatherhood  is  next  to  God- 


hood,  and  therefore  it  takes  a  lifetime  to 
become  a  good  father.  This  is  a  con- 
fession of  a  father  at  the  bedside  of 
his  sleeping  child. 

"I  am  saying  this  to  you  as  you  lie 
asleep,  one  little  paw  crumpled  under 
your  cheek  and  the  blond  curls  stickily 
wet  on  your  damp  forehead.  I  have 
stolen  into  your  room  alone.  Just  a  few 
minutes  ago,  as  I  sat  reading  my  paper 
in  the  library,  a  hot,  stifling  wave  of 
remorse  swept  over  me.  I  could  not 
resist  it.  Guiltily  I  came  to  your 
bedside. 

"These  are  the  things  I  was  thinking, 
son:  I  had  been  cross  to  you.  I  scolded 
you  as  you  were  dressing  for  school  be- 
cause you  gave  your  face  merely  a  dab 
with  a  towel.  I  took  you  to  task  for 
not  cleaning  your  shoes.  I  called  out 
angrily  when  I  found  you  had  thrown 
some  of  your  things  on  the  floor. 

"At  breakfast  I  found  fault,  too. 
You  spilled  things.  You  gulped  down 
your  food.  You  put  your  elbows  on 
the  table.  You  spread  butter  too  thick 
on  your  bread.  And  as  you  started 
off  to  play  and  I  made  for  my  train, 
you  turned  and  waved  a  little  hand 
and  called,  'Good-bye,  Daddy!'  and  I 
frowned,  and  said  in  reply,  'Hold  your 
shoulders  back.' 

"Then  it  began  all  over  again  in  the 
late  afternoon.  As  I  came  up  the  hill 
road,  I  spied  you  down  on  your  knees 
playing  marbles.  There  were  holes  in 
your  stockings.  I  humiliated  you  before 
your  boy  friends  by  making  you  march 
ahead  of  me  back  to  the  house.  Stock- 
ings were  expensive — and  if  you  had  to 
buy  them  you  would  be  more  careful! 
Imagine  that,  son,  from  a  father!  It 
was  such  stupid,  silly  logic. 

"Do  you  remember,  later,  when  I  was 
reading  in  the  library,  how  you  came 
in,  softly,  timidly,  with  a  sort  of  hurt, 
hunted  look  in  your  eyes?  When  I 
glanced  up  over  my  paper,  impatient 
at  the  interruption,  you  hesitated  at  the 
door,  'What  is  it  you  want?'  I  snapped. 

"You  said  nothing,  but  ran  across, 
in  one  tempestuous  plunge,  and  threw 
your  arms  around  my  neck  and  kissed 
me,  again  and  again,  and  your  small 
arms  tightened  with  an  affection  that 
God  had  set  blooming  in  your  heart 
and  which   even  neglect   could  not 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

wither.  And  then  you  were  gone,  pat- 
tering up  the  stairs. 

"Well,  son,  it  was  shortly  afterwards 
that  my  paper  slipped  from  my  hands, 
and  a  terrible  sickening  fear  came  over 
me.  Suddenly  I  saw  myself  as  I  really 
was,  in  all  my  horrible  selfishness,  and 
I  felt  sick  at  heart. 

"What  has  habit  been  doing  to  me? 
The  habit  of  complaining,  of  finding 
fault,  of  reprimanding — all  of  these 
were  my  rewards  to  you  for  being  a  boy. 
It  was  not  that  I  did  not  love  you;  it 
was  that  I  expected  so  much  of  youth. 
I  was  measuring  you  by  the  yardstick 
of  my  own  years. 

"And  there  was  so  much  that  was 
good,  and  fine,  and  true  in  your  char- 
acter. You  did  not  deserve  my  treat- 
ment of  you,  son.  The  little  heart  of 
you  was  as  big  as  the  dawn  itself  over 
the  wide  hills.  All  this  was  shown  by 
your  spontaneous  impulse  to  rush  in  and 
kiss  me  good-night.  Nothing  else  mat- 
ters tonight,  son.  I  have  come  to  your 
bedside  in  the  darkness,  and  I  have  knelt 
there,  choking  with  emotion,  and  so 
ashamed  1 

"It  is  a  feeble  atonement;  I  know  you 
would  not  understand  these  things  if  I 
told  them  to  you  during  your  waking 
hours,  yet  I  must  say  what  I  am  saying. 
I  must  burn  sacrificial  fires,  alone,  here 
in  your  bedroom,  and  make  free  con- 
fession. And  I  have  prayed  God  to 
strengthen  me  in  my  resolve.  Tomor- 
row I  will  be  a  real  daddy!  I  will 
chum  with  you,  and  suffer  when  you 
suffer  and  laugh  when  you  laugh.  I 
will  bite  my  tongue  when  impatient 
words  come.  I  will  keep  saying  as  if 
it  were  a  ritual:  'He  is  nothing  but  a 
boy — a  little  boy.' 

"I  am  afraid  I  have  visualized  you 
as  a  man.  Yet  as  I  see  you  now,  son, 
crumpled  and  weary  in  your  cot,  I  see 
that  you  are  still  a  baby.  Yesterday  you 
were  in  your  mother's  arms,  your  head 
on  her  shoulder.  I  have  asked  too 
much,  too  much. 

"Dear  boy!  Dear  little  son!  A  peni- 
tent kneels  at  your  infant  shrine,  here 
in  the  moonlight.  I  kiss  the  little 
fingers,  and  the  damp  forehead,  and 
the  yellow  curl. 

"Tears  came,  and  heartache  and  re- 
morse, and  also  a  greater,  deeper  love, 


Second  Day 

when  you  ran  through  the  library  door 
and  wanted  to  kiss  me! 

"I  do  not  know  of  a  better  shrine  be- 
fore which  a  father  or  mother  may 
kneel  or  stand  than  that  of  a  sleeping 
child.  I  do  not  know  of  a  holier  place, 
a  temple  where  one  is  more  likely  to 
come  into  closer  touch  with  all  that  is 
infinitely  good,  where  one  may  come 
nearer  to  seeing  and  feeling  God.  From 
that  shrine  come  matins  of  love  and 
laughter,  of  trust  and  cheer  to  bless  the 
new  day;  and  before  that  shrine  should 
fall  our  soft  vespers,  our  grateful  bene- 
dictions for  the  night.  At  the  cot  of  a 
sleeping  babe  all  man-made  ranks  and 
inequalities  are  ironed  out,  and  all 
mankind  kneels  reverently  before  the 
living  image  of  the  Creator.  To  under- 
stand a  child,  to  go  back  and  grow  up 
sympathetically  with  it,  to  hold  its 
love  and  confidences,  to  be  accepted  by 
it,  without  fear  or  restraint,  as  a  com- 
panion and  playmate,  is  just  about  the 
greatest  good  fortune  that  can  come  to 
any  man  or  woman  in  this  world — and, 
perhaps,  in  any  other  world,  for  all 
we  know. 

"And  I  am  passing  this  'confession' 
along  to  the  fathers  who  may  be  privi- 
leged to  read  it,  and  for  the  benefit  of 
all  the  'little  fellers' — the  growing, 
earth-blessing  little  'Jimmies'  and 
'Billys'  and  'Marys'  and  'Janes'  of  this 
very  good  world  of  ours." 

— Author  Unknown 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  of  the 
priesthood.  From  the  very  center  of  my 
heart  I  bear  witness  to  the  divinity  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  do  not 
claim  to  have  had  visions  or  revelations, 
but  I  do  claim  that  he  has  stamped 
upon  my  soul  a  knowledge  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work  which  did  not  come 
through  my  natural  senses  but  through 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  bless  you  fathers  that  you  may  be 
real  fathers  to  your  children.  I  bless 
you  young  men  that  you  may  be  hon- 
orable sons  of  your  fathers.  I  bless  all 
the  priesthood  here  tonight  and  all  those 
who  are  listening  in  in  far  places  that 
all  may  go  home  from  this  meeting 
resolved  that  they  are  going  to  exercise 
self-control  and  fight  their  way  through 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


in  spite  of  everything  and  be  worthy  bs  so  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
to  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood.    May  it     Christ  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  strict  attention  that  you  thousands 
paid  to  the  remarks  of  David  Cragun 
and  Matthew  Simmons  tonight  bears 
testimony  to  your  pride  in  these  young 
men  who  represented  the  young  men  of 
the  Church,  and  you  got  their  message. 
The  remarks  given  by  Brother  Sill  con- 
firming the  value  of  self-control  sank 
deep  in  your  hearts.  The  testimonies 
of  the  Presidents  of  the  Church  left  a 
lasting  impression  upon  us  all. 

In  conclusion,  I  have  just  a  word  on 
the  topic  that  the  boys  of  the  priesthood 
have  given  to  us  tonight. 

A  man  who  cannot  control  his  temper 
is  not  very  likely  to  control  his  pas- 
sions, and  no  matter  what  his  preten- 
sions in  religion,  he  moves  in  daily 
life  very  close  to  the  animal  plane. 
Religion  is  supposed  to  lift  us  on  a 
higher  level.  Religion  appeals  to  the 
spirit  in  man,  your  real  person,  and 
yet  how  often,  notwithstanding  our 
possessing  a  testimony  of  the  truth,  we 
yield  to  the  carnal  side  of  our  nature. 

The  man  who  quarrels  in  his  home 
banishes  from  his  heart  the  spirit  of 
religion.  A  man  or  a  mother  in  this 
Church  who  would  light  a  cigaret  in 
the  home  is  yielding  to  the  carnal  side 
of  his  nature — far,  far  below  the  ideal 
of  the  Church.  Any  quarreling  in  the 
home  is  antagonistic  to  the  spirituality 
which  Christ  would  have  us  develop 
within  us,  and  it  is  in  our  daily  lives 
that  these  expressions  have  their  effect. 

Man  is  making  great  progress  in 
science  and  invention,  greater  perhaps 
than  ever  before,  but  he  is  not  making 
comparable  progress  in  character  and 
spirituality. 

A  while  ago  I  read  the  remarks  of 
General  Omar  N.  Bradley,  formerly 
Army's  Chief  of  Staff,  who  on  one  occa- 
sion said,  and  I  quote: 

"With  the  monstrous  weapons  man 
already  has,  humanity  is  in  danger  of 
being  trapped  in  this  world  by  its  moral 
adolescence.  Our  knowledge  of  science 
has  clearly  outstripped  our  capacity  to 
control  it.  We  have  too  many  men  of 
science,  too  few  men  of  God.   We  have 


grasped  the  mystery  of  the  atom  and 
rejected  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount. 
Man  is  stumbling  Mindly  through  a 
spiritual  darkness  while  toying  with  the 
precarious  secrets  of  life  and  death." 
(Italics  added.) 

I  am  still  quoting  the  general:  "The 
world  has  achieved  brilliance  without 
wisdom,  power  without  conscience.  Ours 
is  a  world  of  nuclear  giants  and  ethical 
infants.  We  know  more  about  war 
than  we  know  about  peace;  more  about 
killing  than  we  know  about  living." 

Our  living  comes  hourly  and  daily 
in  the  home,  in  our  association  in  busi- 
ness affairs,  and  in  our  meeting  of 
strangers.  It  is  the  attitude  of  the  per- 
son during  the  daily  contacts  by  which 
we  show  whether  we  are  appealing  to 
the  carnal  or  to  the  spiritual  within  us 
and  within  those  with  whom  we  asso- 
ciate. It  is  a  daily  matter.  I  do  not 
know  whether  we  can  get  the  thought 
over  or  not.  It  is  within  the  power  of 
each  one,  especially  members  of  the 
Church  who  make  such  pretensions.  You 
cannot  imagine  a  real  true  Christian, 
and  especially  a  member  of  the  Mor- 
mon Church,  one  who  holds  the  priest- 
hood, swearing  at  his  wife.  It  is 
inconceivable  that  such  a  thing  as  that 
could  be  in  a  home,  and  especially  with 
children  around.  How  can  anyone 
justify  parents  quarreling  in  front  of 
children?  Such  a  thing  should  never 
be  a  part  of  the  life  of  church  members. 

Christ  has  asked  us  to  develop  the 
spiritual  within  us.  Man's  earthly  exist- 
ence is  but  a  test  as  to  whether  he  will 
concentrate  his  efforts,  his  mind,  his 
soul,  upon  things  which  contribute  to 
the  comfort  and  gratification  of  his 
physical  nature,  or  whether  he  will 
make  as  his  life's  pursuit  the  acquisition 
of  spiritual  qualities. 

"Every  noble  impulse,  every  unselfish 
expression  of  love;  every  brave  suffering 
for  the  right;  every  surrender  of  self  to 
something  higher  than  self;  every  loyalty 
to  an  ideal;  every  unselfish  devotion  to 
principle;  every  helpfulness  to  human- 
ity; every  act  of  self-control;  every  fine 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  5 

courage  of  the  soul,  undefeated  by  pre- 
tense or  policy,  but  by  being,  doing, 
and  living  of  good  for  the  very  good's 
sake — that  is  spirituality." 

God  help  us  as  members  of  the  priest- 
hood to  make  that  life  ours  individually, 
in  the  home,  in  the  towns,  in  our  na- 
tion, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour,"  conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie, 
following  which  Elder  John  O.  Simon- 
sen,  formerly  president  of  the  Southern 
Australian  Mission,  will  offer  the 
benediction. 

We  indeed  thank  the  Men's  Chorus 
for  the  inspiring  music  they  have  ren- 
dered this  evening.  We  deeply  appreciate 
the  efforts  they  have  put  forth  in 
preparation  for  this  event.  Thank  you, 
Brother  Condie  and  brethren,  and  God 
bless  you! 

Many  television  stations  will  carry 
Conference  proceedings  Sunday  morning 
to  a  nationwide  audience,  including 
Hawaii  and  Canada.  The  international 
short-wave  station  WRUL  will  broad- 
cast the  Sunday  morning  session  of 
Conference  to  all  parts  of  Europe,  parts 
of  Asia,  Africa,  South  America,  Central 
America,  Mexico  and  the  Caribbean 
area.  It  is  reported  that  we  shall  have  a 
potential  listening  audience  this  Con- 
ference of  many,  many  millions. 


Second  Day 

The  CBS  Radio  Tabernacle  Choir 
Broadcast  will  be  from  8:35  to  9:00 
o'clock  Sunday  morning.  Those  desiring 
to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  at  8:15  a.m. 
It  is  requested  that  the  audience  remain 
quiet  during  the  broadcast. 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the 
speaker  on  the  Church  of  the  Air  on 
CBS  Radio  tomorrow  morning  at  7:35 
o'clock  (from  7:35  to  8:00  a.m.). 

As  thousands  leave  this  priesthood 
meeting  tonight  let  us  keep  in  mind  the 
admonition  that  is  constantly  being 
given  us  to  drive  carefully.  Let  us  have 
courtesy  in  the  city  and  on  the  high- 
ways. Thoughtfulness  and  alertness  are 
necessary  if  we  are  to  reduce  the  num- 
ber of  automobile  accidents.  Please  obey 
traffic  rules. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour."  Elder  John  O. 
Simonsen  will  offer  the  benediction, 
and  we  will  be  adjourned  until  10 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  John  O.  Simonsen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Southern  Australian 
Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning  at  10:00  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  in  the 
Tabernacle  Sunday  morning,  October  6, 
1963  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  service  was 
presented  at  7:35  a.m.,  with  Elder  Gor- 
don B.  Hinckley  as  the  speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  was  presented  in  the  Taber- 
nacle from  8:35  to  9:00  a.m.  (For  a  full 
report  of  these  broadcasts  see  pages 
127  to  132.) 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present 
and  furnished  the  music  for  this  session 
of  the  Conference.    Elder  Richard  P. 


Condie,  Conductor  of  the  Choir,  di- 
rected the  singing.  Frank  W.  Asper, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  was  the  accom- 
panist on  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted,  and  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  telegrams  and  messages  from 
members  of  the  Church  in  all  parts  of 
the  world.  Time  will  not  permit  read- 
ing them.  There  is  one,  however,  from 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


91 


missionaries  and  members  of  the  Church 
in  Samoa.  They  extend  greetings  and 
thanks  for  inspiring  Conference  mes- 
sages. "We  are  enjoying  excellent  re- 
ception by  special  KSL  rebroadcast." 
President  and  Sister  J.  Philip  Hanks. 

Another  from  Albuquerque:  "Re- 
ception of  the  Conference  television 
broadcast  is  great  and  tremendous  in 
Albuquerque.  Members  of  four  stakes 
and  Western  States  Mission  received  the 
broadcast  over  KGGM-TV."  I.  F.  Mun- 
son,  Publicity  Director. 

We  welcome  all  present  this  morning 
in  the  Tabernacle,  which  is  crowded  to 
the  doors,  those  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
and  particularly  the  vast  television  and 
radio  audience  in  this,  the  Sixth  Session 
of  the  133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  rendering  "With  A 


Voice  of  Singing,"  following  which  the 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Lloyd  R.  Hunsaker,  president  of  the 
Logan  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "With  A 
Voice  Of  Singing." 

Elder  Lloyd  R.  Hunsaker,  president  of 
the  Logan  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
President  Lloyd  R.  Hunsaker  of  the 
Logan  Stake.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing  "Blessed  He  That  Comes 
in  the  Name  of  the  Lord."  Our  first 
speaker,  following  the  singing,  will  be 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Blessed  He 
That  Comes  In  The  Name  Of  The 
Lord." 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


As  one  beholds  the  thousands  who  are 
assembled  here  and  is  aware  that  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  are  listening  by 
means  of  radio  and  television,  the  re- 
sponsibility of  directing  the  thinking 
of  so  vast  an  audience  would  be  over- 
whelming were  it  not  for  the  knowledge 
that  divine  assistance  is  available 
through  prayers  of  faith. 

During  recent  months,  both  in  Salt 
Lake  City  and  across  the  nation,  con- 
siderable interest  has  been  expressed  in 
the  position  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  on  the  matter 
of  civil  rights.  We  would  like  it  to  be 
known  that  there  is  in  this  Church  no 
doctrine,  belief,  or  practice  that  is  in- 
tended to  deny  the  enjoyment  of  full 
civil  rights  by  any  person  regardless  of 
race,  color,  or  creed. 

We  say  again,  as  we  have  said  many 
times  before,  that  we  believe  that  all 
men  are  the  children  of  the  same  God, 
and  that  it  is  a  moral  evil  for  any 
person  or  group  of  persons  to  deny  any 
human  being  the  right  to  gainful  em- 
ployment, to  full  educational  opportu- 


nity, and  to  every  privilege  of  citizenship, 
just  as  it  is  a  moral  evil  to  deny  him  the 
right  to  worship  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  his  own  conscience. 

We  have  consistently  and  persistently 
upheld  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States,  and  as  far  as  we  are  concerned 
this  means  upholding  the  constitutional 
rights  of  every  citizen  of  the  United 
States. 

We  call  upon  all  men,  everywhere, 
both  within  and  outside  the  Church,  to 
commit  themselves  to  the  establishment 
of  full  civil  equality  for  all  of  God's 
children.  Anything  less  than  this  de- 
feats our  high  ideal  of  the  brotherhood 
of  man. 

Attending  a  Mormon  conference  is,  no 
doubt,  to  some  a  new  experience.  Per- 
haps some  may  wonder,  as  did  Nathan- 
ael  in  the  days  of  Christ  regarding 
Nazareth,  and  ask,  "Can  any  good  thing 
come  out  of  'Mormondom'?"  For  the 
moment  we  reply  in  the  words  of 
Philip,  who  simply  said  to  Nathanael, 
"Come  and  see."  (See  John  1:46.)  We 
welcome  all  of  you  and  hope  the  time 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

you  spend  with  us  will  be  enlightening 
and  profitable. 

In  this  fantastically  changing  world, 
where  old  methods,  old  models,  and 
old  ideas  are  being  replaced  by  new 
and  revolutionary  substitutes,  it  is  well 
that  church  leaders  everywhere  re- 
examine and  reappraise  their  creeds  and 
courageously  seek  for  the  causes  of  the 
waning  interest  in  religion. 

We  are  passing  through  a  period  of 
radical  intellectual  reconstruction  and 
spiritual  unrest.  We  must  think  about 
religion  in  order  to  formulate  an  intel- 
lectual understanding  of  it.  And  intel- 
lectual understanding  is  just  as  needful 
in  religion  as  anywhere  else.  We  must 
not  permit  the  surface  of  the  waters  of 
religious  life  to  become  fixed  and  crystal- 
lized by  the  freezing  of  religious  thought. 

For  a  moment  may  we  consider  the 
divine  and  historic  basis  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  its  present  status,  and  its 
prophetic  destiny. 

On  biblical  authority  we  affirm  that 
a  divine  plan  for  man's  salvation  was 
formulated  by  God  the  Father  before 
the  foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid 
when  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for 
joy  at  the  prospect  of  mortality.  (See 
Job  38:7.) 

At  a  time  far  antedating  Eden,  the 
spirits  of  all  men  had  a  primeval  exist- 
ence and  were  intelligences  with  spirit 
bodies  of  which  God  was  universal 
Father.  In  the  Bible  we  read,  "Then 
shall  the  dust  return  to  the  earth  as  it 
was:  and  the  spirit  shall  return  unto 
the  God  who  gave  it."  (Eccles.  12:7.) 

The  Lord  told  Jeremiah  that  he  knew 
him  before  his  body  was  formed  and 
sanctified  him  and  ordained  him  a 
prophet  unto  the  nations.  (Jer.  1:4.) 
And  the  Apostle  Paul  testified: 

"Furthermore  we  have  had  fathers  of 
our  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and  we 
gave  them  reverence:  shall  we  not  much 
rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father 
of  spirits,  and  live?"  (Heb.  12:9.) 

During  this  antemortal  existence  in  a 
council  in  the  heavens  with  God  the 
Father  on  the  throne,  there  was  one 
who  challenged  God,  desiring  to  usurp 
his  power  and  force  all  men  to  do  his 
bidding.  He  coveted  Godhood  and  said 
to  the  Father,  "Give  me  thy  glory."  He 


Third  Day 

would  have  had  a  dictatorship  in  heaven 
ruled  by  tyrants  with  all  spirit  chil- 
dren bondmen. 

Chief  among  that  vast  assembly  was 
Jehovah,  the  same  who  would  become 
the  Christ  Child,  the  Redeemer.  He 
was  the  Firstborn  among  the  spirits,  and 
by  birthright  was  both  heir  and  leader. 
He  opposed  the  plot  to  rob  men  of  their 
freedom  and  espoused  the  counter 
proposition  with  free  agency  as  the 
watchword. 

All  who  favored  the  Messiah  would  be 
given  mortal  bodies  with  the  seeds  of 
death  implanted  in  them.  They  would 
have  the  right  to  choose  their  course  in 
life  and  accept  responsibility  for  their 
conduct.  Their  bodies  would  return  to 
the  dust  from  which  they  came.  Through 
the  voluntary  atonement  of  Christ,  a 
member  of  the  Godhead,  resurrection 
from  the  dead  was  guaranteed  to  all. 
Another  blessing  of  mortality  would  be 
the  Godlike  power  of  procreation. 

Against  this  plan  the  proud,  defiant 
Lucifer  led  a  great  rebellion,  and  one- 
third  of  all  the  spirits  followed  him. 
John  tells  us  in  the  book  of  Revelation: 

".  .  .  there  was  war  in  heaven:  Mi- 
chael and  his  angels  fought  against  the 
dragon;  and  the  dragon  fought  and 
his  angels, 

"And  prevailed  not;  neither  was  their 
place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

"And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out, 
that  old  serpent,  called  the  Devil,  and 
Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world: 
he  was  cast  out  into  the  earth,  and  his 
angels  were  cast  out  with  him." 
(Rev.  12:7-9.) 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  knew  of  this 
when  he  wrote: 

"How  art  thou  fallen  from  heaven, 
O  Lucifer,  son  of  the  morning!  how  art 
thou  cut  down  to  the  ground,  which 
didst  weaken  the  nations! 

"For  thou  hast  said  in  thine  heart,  I 
will  ascend  into  heaven,  I  will  exalt 
my  throne  above  the  stars  of  God:  I 
will  sit  also  upon  the  mount  of  the  con- 
gregation, in  the  sides  of  the  north: 

"I  will  ascend  above  the  heights  of 
the  clouds;  I  will  be  like  the  most  High." 
(Isa.  14:12-14.) 

Adam,  because  of  disobedience,  was 
evicted  from  the  Garden  of  Eden;  the 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


93 


door  was  closed  behind  him  and  his 
posterity,  and  the  tree  of  life  was 
guarded  by  a  flaming  sword  as  we  read 
in  Genesis.  (Gen.  3:24.)  Mortal  birth 
erases  recollection  of  that  spiritual  pre- 
existence  and  the  memory  of  premortal 
life  is  as  a  feeble  echo,  and  yet,  as  we 
sometimes  sing,  "a  secret  something 
whispers  you're  a  stranger  here,  and 
we  feel  that  we  have  wandered  from  a 
more  exalted  sphere." 

The  fate  of  all  seemed  hopeless  when 
sin  and  death  joined  hands  to  shut  them 
out  forever,  and  Satan  leered  in  tri- 
umph at  what  seemed  to  be  Christ's 
failure.  Men  had  no  power  to  conquer 
death,  and  without  divine  assistance 
would  sleep  forever  in  their  graves. 

The  atonement  was  foreshadowed 
when  Adam  offered  sacrifice,  and  each 
prophet  who  succeeded  him  was  told 
about  Christ's  mission.  The  scene  of 
battle  shifted,  but  the  war  between  good 
and  evil  still  continues  among  the  sons 
of  men. 

Christ  had  power  to  conquer  death 
by  himself  becoming  mortal.  He  would 
reach  across  the  valley  and  build  a 
straight  and  narrow  highway  by  which 
men  could  pass  from  death  to  life.  He 
built  a  bridge,  one  end  of  which  was 
anchored  in  mortality  and  the  other 
fixed  in  heaven.  ".  .  .  no  man  cometh 
unto  the  Father,  but  by  me,"  he  said 
(John  14:6);  and  again,  "I  am  the  way 
and  the  life." 

So  Christ  was  born  in  Bethlehem  and 
entered  the  world  of  mortal  men  which 
Beelzebub  had  thought  belonged  to  him 
alone.  The  battle  lines  were  drawn 
again  with  the  Messiah  and  the  loyal 
sons  of  God  on  one  side  and  Lucifer 
and  his  cohorts  on  the  other. 

At  the  moment  of  Christ's  birth, 
Satan  plotted  his  destruction  and  tried 
by  force  to  thwart  his  divine  mission. 
But  the  rule  of  force,  so  far  as  his 
Son  was  concerned,  had  been  vetoed  by 
the  Father.  The  devil  has  always  had 
willing  tools  on  earth,  and  at  this  time 
Herod  was  his  agent.  He  was  cruel 
and  wily  like  his  master;  he  sought  to 
kill  the  Christ  Child,  and  in  his 
slaughter  of  the  infants,  he  set  a  new 
low  mark  for  even  Satan. 

But  this  Babe  of  mortal  mother  was 


also  the  Son  of  God  the  Father  and 
could  not  be  defeated  by  mortal  men 
or  devils.  Satan,  failing  in  his  vile 
attempt,  cunningly  decided  to  bide  his 
time  until  the  Child  had  grown  to  man- 
hood, and  then  he  hoped  to  win  by 
artifice  where  force  had  failed  him. 

But  here  again  Satan  blundered  in 
thinking  Christ  was  only  mortal.  He 
thought  his  own  power  would  more 
than  equal  that  of  his  young  opponent. 

After  forty  days  of  fasting,  Jesus  met 
this  wily  tempter  who  suggested  that 
he  satisfy  his  hunger  by  making  bread 
of  stones  and  thus  manifest  his  power. 
He  tried  to  sow  seeds  of  pride  and  arro- 
gance, two  vices  of  his  own.  But  Christ 
disclaimed  dependence  upon  bread 
alone.  He  lived  "by  every  word  pro- 
ceeding from  the  mouth  of  God." 

Having  failed  to  make  appetite  and 
pride  a  strong  temptation,  Lucifer 
thought  promise  of  power  would  be 
appealing — love  of  power,  the  very  rock 
on  which  he  himself  had  foundered. 
But  Christ  disdained  this  offer,  too,  and 
refused  to  flaunt  his  matchless  power. 
The  third  and  last  attempt  to  lure  him 
was  to  offer  worldly  wealth  in  exchange 
for  his  allegiance.  And  Satan  heard  the 
final  words: 

".  .  .  Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan:  .  .  ." 
(See  Luke  4:4-8.) 

Satan  found  his  next  ally  among  those 
who  followed  Jesus.  Judas  thought,  like 
many  since,  that  worldly  wealth  is  gain, 
no  matter  how  procured.  He  sold  his 
Master  for  a  price  and  transferred  his 
allegiance  for  which  he  received  full 
pay  in  Satan's  coin  of  misery  and  death. 

The  fight  went  on,  and  Christ  was 
crucified,  but  he  was  not  defeated,  for 
he  held  power  over  death.  He  yielded 
to  physical  death  of  his  own  volition 
that,  dying,  he  might  conquer  death 
and  thereby  open  the  door  which  Adam 
had  closed  in  Eden.  But  in  death  Christ 
was  victorious,  for  he  achieved  the  pur- 
pose of  his  earth  life,  viz.,  to  break  the 
bonds  of  death,  to  come  forth  from  the 
grave  and  insure  man's  resurrection. 

His  little  band  of  loyal  followers 
continued  faithful  unto  death,  and 
death  it  was  for  most  of  them,  includ- 
ing the  apostles.  Apostasy  became  uni- 
versal, and  Satan  reveled  throughout 


94  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  6 

the  Dark  Ages  when  it  seemed  that  his 
sovereignty  was  established. 

But  special  messengers  were  sent  to 
earth  to  effect  a  reformation  and  pre- 
pare the  way  for  the  final  scene  and 
the  promised  restoration. 

The  message  of  Mormonism  is  that 
the  plan  of  salvation  of  which  we've 
spoken  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It 
was  taught  in  every  dispensation  from 
Adam  to  Malachi  and  reached  its  cli- 
max in  the  Meridian  of  Time  when 
Christ  was  resurrected  from  the  dead. 
From  the  beginning  he  had  been  the 
central  figure  of  salvation's  plan.  The 
Jews  had  looked  forward  through  the 
centuries  to  the  coming  of  Messiah,  to  a 
deliverer  of  the  line  of  David  sent  of 
God,  but  despite  the  prophecies  and  the 
signs  that  were  given  them,  they  failed 
to  recognize,  and  therefore  they  re- 
jected him  when  he  came. 

The  same  prophets  who  so  accurately 
foretold  the  earthly  advent  of  Messiah 
were  also  given  visions  and  revelations 
regarding  his  second  coming.  Their 
warning  messages  are  recorded  in  the 
Holy  Bible,  and  they  are  the  signs  by 
which  the  people  of  the  latter  days 
might  be  forewarned  and  guided. 

For  instance,  in  Psalms  we  read  that 
fire  should  devour  before  him,  while 
Joel  saw  as  signs  of  his  coming  that 
the  moon  should  be  darkened  and  the 
stars  withdraw  their  shining.  To  Zach- 
ariah  it  was  revealed  that  his  feet 
should  stand  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
which  should  cleave  in  the  midst  thereof 
toward  the  East  and  the  West,  and 
Malachi  predicted  that  he  would  sud- 
denly come  to  his  temple  and  that  he 
should  be  like  a  refiner's  fire  and  like 
fuller's  soap.  Job  referred  to  our  day 
when  he  said: 

"For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth, 
and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter 
day  upon  the  earth."  (Job  19:25.) 

While  these  and  many  other  prophe- 
cies were  made  prior  to  the  birth  of 
Christ  in  Bethlehem,  certainly  most  of 
the  events  to  which  they  refer  did  not 
occur  before  his  birth,  nor  were  they 
fulfilled  during  his  lifetime. 

Many  men  have  tried  to  appraise 
Christ  since  his  transcendent  ministry 
began.    Their  estimates  of  him  have 


Third  Day 

ranged  from  blasphemous  denunciation 
to  self-sacrificing  worship.  Some  ask 
whether  such  a  man  ever  really  lived 
or  was  he  just  a  myth;  was  he  an  op- 
portunist, sentimentalist,  or  social  revo- 
lutionist; or  possibly  a  man  of  genius,  a 
wise  man,  a  doer  of  wonderful  works, 
or  a  great  teacher?  But  if  we  consult 
the  men  who  were  closest  to  him,  the 
men  who  followed  him  onto  the 
Mount  of  Transfiguration,  we  shall 
learn  that  he  was  ".  .  .  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God."  (Matt.  16:16.) 
We  ask  each  and  all  who  are  listening 
today  to  make  his  own  appraisal  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  and  determine 
whether  or  not  he  is  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God.  For  ourselves  we  humbly 
bear  witness  to  this  transcendent  fact. 
In  the  gospel  of  John  he  is  referred  to 
as  the  Word,  who  was  with  God  in 
the  beginning,  who  was  God,  by  whom 
all  things  were  made.  He  was  the  life 
and  the  light  of  men  who  was  made 
flesh  and  dwelt  among  us.  (See  John 
1:1-3,  14.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  declared: 

']God,  .  .  . 

"Hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto 
us  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath  appointed 
heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he 
made  the  worlds;"  (Heb.  1:1-2.) 

And  in  the  eighth  verse  of  the  same 
chapter  he  said: 

"But  unto  the  Son  he  saith,  Thy 
throne,  O  God,  is  for  ever  and  ever:  a 
sceptre  of  righteousness  is  the  sceptre 
of  thy  kingdom."  (Ibid.,  1:8.) 

It  is  doubtful  if  his  divinity,  his 
power,  and  his  leadership  were  ever 
challenged  with  such  audacity  and 
ferocity  as  they  are  being  challenged 
now.  Never  in  history  have  the  com- 
mon people  of  the  world  felt  the  need 
of  divine  leadership  as  they  feel  it  in 
this  bewildered  world.  There  never 
was  a  time  which  needed  him  more, 
as  false  ideologies  and  scientific  miracles 
are  leading  the  world  to  the  brink 
of  annihilation. 

There  are  men  and  nations  today 
who  are  attempting  to  displace  God, 
to  ban  religion,  and  to  make  this  a 
godless  world.  The  present  war  between 
Christ  and  anti-Christ  is  in  fulfilment 


ELDER  TEIORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


95 


of  prophecy  and  is  itself  a  harbinger 
or  forerunner  of  the  millennium. 

We  plead  with  all  Christians  every- 
where to  attest  their  faith  in  him  by 
keeping  his  commandments.  His  work 
of  redemption  is  not  complete  nor  will 
it  be  until  his  gospel  is  written  in  the 
lives  and  hearts  of  men.  The  fact  that 
he  was  resurrected  from  the  dead — the 
best  attested  fact  in  history — assures  us 
that  he  still  lives.  He  has  promised 
that  he  will  come  again.  All  who  read 
the  prophecies  of  scripture  and  note  the 
signs  of  our  own  times  must  be  con- 
vinced that  we  are  living  in  the  last 
days,  that  the  great  events  foretold  by 
the  prophets  have  been  and  are  being 
enacted  on  the  stage  of  contemporary 
history.  Let  us  recognize  in  current 
events  the  portents,  or  prognosis  of  the 
great  finale. 

John,  while  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos, 
saw  in  vision  things  to  come;  heard 
ten  thousand  angels  singing  praises  to 
the  Son  of  God.  And  they  joined  with 
every  creature  in  earth  and  heaven — all 
with  one  accord  were  saying: 

".  .  .  Blessing,  and  honour,  and  glory, 
and  power,  be  unto  him  that  sitteth 
upon  the  throne,  and  unto  the  Lamb 
for  ever  and  ever."  (Rev.  5:13.) 

And  he  saw  another  angel  flying  in 
the  midst  of  heaven,  saw  him  bring  to 
earth  the  gospel  for  every  nation,  kin- 
dred, tongue,  and  people.  He  saw  the 
lake  without  a  bottom,  and  the  dragon 
bound  with  chains,  saw  one  thousand 
years  of  concord,  peace,  and  rest.  And 
he  saw  the  holy  city,  new  Jerusalem, 
coming  down  from  God  out  of  heaven, 
with  his  earthly  kingdom  to  be  joined. 

Then  he  saw  the  small  and  great  ones 


stand  before  the  throne  of  God  to  be 
judged  out  of  the  records,  each  accord- 
ing to  his  merits.  Death  and  hell  re- 
leased their  captives,  and  the  sea  gave 
up  its  dead,  while  the  angels  sang 
hosannah  to  the  Prince  of  Peace, 
their  Lord. 

We  bear  humble  testimony  that  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  is  the  Savior  and  Redeemer 
of  the  world  and  that  he  will  return 
and  reign  personally  upon  the  earth. 
At  that  time  the  people  on  the  earth 
will  join  with  the  hosts  of  heaven  and 
sing:  "The  kingdom  of  this  world  is 
become  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord,  and 
of  his  Christ:  And  He  shall  reign  for 
ever  and  ever,  King  of  Kings,  and  Lord 
of  Lords."  (Handel,  George  Frederick, 
The  Messiah.)  This  testimony  we  bear 
to  all  the  world  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  gave  this  address  is  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  "Father  In  Heaven,  In  Thy 
Love  Abounding."  Following  the  sing- 
ing, Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  will 
speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  sang  the  selection,  "Father 
In  Heaven,  In  Thy  Love  Abounding." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Howard  W.  Hunter. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  our  beloved  President 
and  God's  choice  prophet,  President 
Brown,  President  Tanner,  brethren  of 
the  General  Authorities,  my  dear 
brothers  and  sisters  and  friends  every- 
where. One  cannot  stand  at  this  pul- 
pit without  feeling  humble  and  very 
dependent  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  can  assure  you  that  much  fasting  and 


much  praying  precedes  a  general  con- 
ference. I  sincerely  pray  that  what  I 
might  say  will  be  helpful  and  I  trust 
encouraging. 

This  beautiful  choir  this  morning  and 
every  Sunday  morning  is  a  great  pride 
and  a  blessing  to  the  people  of  the 
Church  and  for  the  people  of  the  world. 
What  a  great  missionary  group  of  won- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

derful  people — these  choir  members  and 
their  officers  and  their  choristers  and 
organists.  I  am  sure  we  little  sense 
the  great  good  that  they  are  doing. 

We  all  recognize  that  there  are  three 
important  institutions  that  greatly  affect 
the  life  of  a  boy,  and  when  I  use  the 
term  boy  I  should  like  to  also  have  it 
understood  that  I  include  the  girl.  The 
home,  the  church,  and  the  school — all 
are  important,  but  perhaps  not  all  in 
that  order. 

We  recognize,  however,  that  the  home 
should  be  in  first  place  and  directly 
responsible  for  the  welfare,  the  train- 
ing, and  the  future  of  a  boy.  But 
what  if  the  home  fails,  and  what  if 
the  parents  cannot  succeed? 

True,  the  church  plays  an  important 
part  in  the  life  of  a  boy.  Yet,  we  must 
recognize  that  the  church  has  the  boy 
under  its  jurisdiction  but  a  very  small 
percentage  of  his  time,  while  the 
teacher  and  the  school  have  a  very 
close  association  with  him.  Perhaps 
more  of  the  boy's  time  is  spent  with 
the  teacher  than  that  he  spends  in  the 
home.  Therefore,  it  might  be  said  that 
the  teacher  and  the  school  will  play 
a  bigger  part  in  the  welfare  and  the 
training  and  the  character  and  the  fu- 
ture of  a  boy  than  perhaps  the  home 
or  the  church. 

Parents  have  such  little  time  to  spend 
with  their  boy.  Parents  take  too  little 
time  with  their  boy;  therefore,  we 
should  be  more  concerned  than  ever 
that  he  is  properly  taught,  supervised, 
and  disciplined  while  we  are  with  him. 

Now,  teacher  and  school,  I  wonder  if 
you  are  willing  to  assume  the  welfare 
and  the  training  of  the  character  of 
the  boy,  remembering  that  you  have 
him  under  your  direction  more  of  his 
awake  time  than  anybody  else.  So 
much  depends  upon  you — the  teacher 
and  the  school.  Yes,  parents  expect  the 
teachers  and  the  school  to  make  sure 
that  their  boy  is  properly  taught,  not 
alone  that  he  is  taught  to  read  and  write 
and  the  arts  and  the  sciences,  but  that 
he  is  taught  the  fundamentals  of  life 
and  the  building  of  character.  Some 
would  say,  "Yes,  Teacher,  his  future 
depends  largely  on  you."  I  wonder  if  you 
are  willing  to  accept  this  responsibility? 


Third  Day 

Of  late  years  we  have  had  much  said 
about  the  teacher  and  the  school.  Re- 
gardless of  what  may  have  been  said, 
the  fact  still  remains  that  the  teacher 
has  the  association  and  the  responsi- 
bility for  a  greater  portion  of  his  time 
than  anybody  else.  Parents  are  justified 
in  being  anxious  about  their  boy,  and 
they  are  anxious  that  the  teacher  and 
the  school  give  him  everything  that  he 
needs.  They  are  anxious  that  he  is 
properly  taught  because  his  future  life 
and  how  he  conducts  himself  will  in  a 
large  measure  be  the  result  of  some 
teacher  and  the  school. 

Teachers,  do  you  realize  that  the 
boys  today  under  your  direction  may 
be  the  doctors  of  tomorrow,  they  may 
be  the  businessmen  of  tomorrow,  they 
may  be  the  teachers  to  take  your  place 
tomorrow,  the  legislators  of  tomorrow, 
the  public  office-holders,  church  leaders. 
Yes,  they  may  be  the  men  who  may 
go  to  the  moon;  some  may  be  great 
artists  and  authors.  Some  may  be 
great  industrial  tycoons,  and  some  may 
be  the  leaders  America  will  need  so 
badly  to  survive  in  this  puzzled  world. 
Yes,  teacher,  you  have  their  future  in 
your  hands.  Don't  let  any  boy  fail 
because  of  you,  his  teacher. 

Great  teachers  are  always  underpaid. 
Probably  it  can  never  be  said  that  a 
great  teacher  is  paid  enough,  but  a 
poor  teacher  is  paid  too  much,  regardless 
of  what  he  is  paid.  Teachers,  you  may 
be  underpaid;  yes,  you  may  be  unappre- 
ciated at  times,  and  you  may  be  over- 
worked, but  you  will  gain  that  pay  in 
secret  satisfaction  and  blessings  of  God 
in  heaven,  and  many  boys  will  rise  up 
and  call  you  blessed. 

Recently,  I  asked  a  beautiful  little 
granddaughter,  Becky,  how  she  liked 
school,  and  she  answered  and  said,  "O 
Grandpa,  it  is  the  greatest!  I  love  my 
teacher."  I  wonder  what  that  is  worth 
to  a  teacher.  Certainly  you  teachers 
must  be  proud  of  your  profession.  Jesus 
was  the  greatest  teacher  of  all,  and  what 
he  taught  lived  long  after  him  and  still 
lives.  May  teachers  teach  those  things 
that  will  live  long  after  you!  Yes,  you 
should  be  proud  of  your  profession. 
Many  great  men  in  America,  many  great 
men  in  this  audience,  men  who  are 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


97 


listening  by  television  and  radio,  have 
been  teachers.  Our  great  prophet  was  a 
teacher;  he  has  been  a  teacher;  he  is 
still  a  teacher.  Certainly,  teachers,  you 
should  be  proud  of  your  profession. 
Secretly,  you  must  admit  that  you  have 
the  greatest  job  in  all  the  world  because 
you  hold  the  history  of  the  world  in  the 
palm  of  your  hand — you  are  a  teacher! 

Many  of  us  can  and  do  constantly 
pay  tribute  to  the  teachers  whom  we 
were  fortunate  enough  to  have.  As  par- 
ents, taxpayers,  and  citizens,  it  might 
be  well  if  we  took  a  little  more  interest 
in  our  schools  and  in  our  boys  and  girls 
and  extended  greater  appreciation  for 
our  teachers.  It  would  be  well  if  we 
never  speak  disparagingly  about  a 
teacher. 

Teachers,  make  sure  that  you  teach 
as  you  would  like  to  mold.  Teachers, 
be  sure  that  you  teach  so  that  there 
will  never  be  any  justifiable  reason  to 
criticize  your  profession.  Teachers,  re- 
member that  there  is  a  divine  spark  in 
every  boy  and  girl  that  never  goes  out. 
You  may  help  to  kindle  that  spark. 
Children  are  like  the  flowers  of  God, 
and  they  must  have  time  and  room 
to  bloom. 

May  I  dedicate  this  to  teachers,  and 
when  I  speak  of  teachers  I  speak  of  them 
in  the  broadest  sense  because  every  one 
of  us  is  a  teacher — teachers  by  example 
and  precept.  I  refer  to  parents,  and  I 
refer  to  teachers  in  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations. I  would  like  to  include  teach- 
ers in  the  elementary  schools,  high 
schools,  public  schools,  colleges,  and 
universities. 

Teachers,  into  your  hands  we  daily 
commit  the  dearest  that  we  have.  As 
you  make  our  children,  so  shall  future 
years  see  them,  so  be  careful. 

Teachers,  may  you  have  an  abiding 
consciousness  that  you  are  co-workers 
with  God,  the  great  teacher  of  human- 
ity, and  that  he  has  charged  you  with 
the  great  duty  of  bringing  forth  from 
the  budding  life  of  the  young  the  mys- 
terious stores  of  character  and  ability 
which  he  has  hidden  in  them. 

The  miracles  and  teaching  of  the 
Man  of  Galilee  are  considered  by  many 
to  be  the  brightest  illumination  of  all 
that  has  come  to  bless  man.  He  taught 
individual  responsibility,  and  his  par- 


ables concerned  each  person's  fulfilling 
his  own  capacity. 

In  Proverbs  20,  verse  27,  I  quote,  "The 
spirit  of  man  is  the  candle  of  the 
Lord,  .  .  ."  Teachers,  remember  to 
reverence  the  young  lives,  clean  and 
plastic,  which  have  newly  come  from 
God  and  to  realize  that  generations  still 
unborn  will  rue  your  sloth  or  rise  to 
higher  levels  through  your  wisdom 
and  faithfulness. 

May  God,  the  Father  of  us  all,  gird 
you  for  your  work  with  his  patience  and 
tranquility,  with  great  fatherly  and 
motherly  love  for  the  young,  and  with 
special  tenderness  for  the  backward  and 
the  afflicted  and  the  poor.  Save  them 
from  trouble,  from  loneliness,  and  dis- 
couragement, from  the  numbness  of 
routine,  and  from  all  bitterness  of 
heart. 

Here  are  some  thoughts  expressed  to 
teachers,  which  might  be  said  by  all 
fathers  and  mothers  to  all  teachers:  t 

"To  you  the  teacher  and  the  school, 
my  son  will  start  school.  It's  all  going 
to  be  so  very  strange  and  new  to  him 
for  awhile,  and  I  wish  that  you  would 
sort  of  treat  him  gently. 

"You  see,  up  to  now,  my  little  boy 
has  been  the  king  of  the  roost.  He's 
been  boss  of  the  back  yard.  His  mother 
has  always  been  around  to  repair  his 
wounds,  and  I  have  always  been  handy 
to  soothe  his  feelings.  Now  things  are 
going  to  be  different. 

"This  morning  he  is  going  to  walk 
down  the  front  steps,  he  is  going  to 
wave  his  hand  to  his  mother,  and  he 
is  going  to  start  out  on  a  great  adven- 
ture. This  is  an  adventure  that  will 
probably  include  much  tragedy  and 
sorrow  and  disappointment. 

"Our  boy  will  have  to  live  his  life 
with  you  and  with  the  world  that  he 
now  has  to  live  in.  It  will  require  faith 
and  love  and  courage.  So  teacher  and 
school  and  world,  I  wish  you  would  sort 
of  take  him  by  his  young  hand  and 
teach  him  the  things  that  he  ought  to 
know,  but  be  careful  with  him. 

"Please  teach  him,  but  gently,  if  you 
can.  He  will  have  to  learn,  I  know, 
that  all  men  are  not  just,  and  all  men 
are  not  true,  but  please  teach  him  that 
for  every  scoundrel  there  is  a  hero,  and 
for  every  disloyal  politician,  there  is  a 
dedicated  public  leader.    Let  him  un- 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

derstand,  teacher,  that  you  are  one  of 
those  dedicated  leaders.  Teach  him 
that  for  every  enemy  he  may  have, 
there  will  be  wonderful  friends,  and 
teach  him  that  you  are  that  wonder- 
ful friend. 

"It  will  take  time,  teacher,  school, 
and  world,  I  know,  but  teach  him,  if 
you  can,  that  a  nickel  earned  is  far 
more  valuable  than  a  dollar  found. 
Teach  him  to  learn  to  lose  but  also 
teach  him  to  enjoy  winning.  Steer  him 
away  from  envy  if  you  can,  and  teach 
him  the  secret  of  quiet  laughter. 

"Let  him  learn  early  that  the  bullies 
are  the  easiest  people  to  lick.  Teach 
him,  if  you  can,  the  wonder  and  great- 
ness of  good  books.  But  also  give  him 
quiet  time  to  ponder  the  eternal  mys- 
tery of  birds  in  the  sky,  bees  in  the 
sun,  and  flowers  on  the  green  hill. 

"In  school — teacher  and  world — teach 
him  it  is  far  more  honorable  to  fail 
than  to  cheat.  Teach  him  to  be  honest. 
Teach  him  to  have  faith  in  his  own 
ideas  even  if  others  tell  him  that  his 
ideas  are  wrong.  Teach  him  to  be  gen- 
tle with  gentle  people,  but  teach  him 
to  be  tough  with  tough  people. 

"Try  to  give  my  son  the  strength  not 
to  follow  the  crowd  just  because  every- 
one is  getting  on  the  band  wagon.  Teach 
him  to  listen  to  all  men,  and  then  teach 
him  also  to  filter  and  separate  all  he 
hears  on  the  screen  of  truth  and  take 
only  the  good  part  that  comes  through. 
Teach  him  to  choose  that  which  will 
be  good. 

"Teach  him  if  you  can  how  to  laugh 
when  he  is  sad.  Teach  him  there  is 
no  shame  in  tears.  There  is  a  sacred- 
ness  in  tears.  They  are  not  the  mark  of 
weakness  but  of  power.  They  speak 
more  eloquently  than  ten  thousand 
tongues.  They  are  the  messengers  of 
overwhelming  grief,  deep  contrition,  and 
unspeakable  love,  and  when  tears 
course  down  his  cheek  for  any  of  these 
three  causes,  remember  he  is  standing 
close  in  the  presence  of  God. 

"Teach  him  to  work  and  study.  Let 
him  know  that  the  price  of  success  is 
high,  but  not  nearly  so  high  as  the 
price  of  failure.  Teach  him  there  can 
be  glory  in  failure,  but  also  teach  him 
there  can  be  despair  in  success. 

"Teach  him  to  scoff  at  cynics  and  to 


Third  Day 

beware  of  too  much  sweetness.  Teach 
him  to  sell  his  brawn  and  his  brains  to 
the  highest  bidder  but  never  to  put  a 
price  tag  on  his  heart  and  his  soul. 

"Teach  him  to  close  his  ears  to  the 
howling  mob.  Teach  him  to  stand  and 
fight  if  he  thinks  he  is  right.  Treat  him 
gently,  teacher  and  world,  but  don't 
coddle  him  because  only  the  test  of  fire 
makes  fine  steel.  Abraham  Lincoln 
once  said,  'to  sin  in  silence  when  protest 
is  good  makes  cowards  out  of  men.' 

"Let  him  have  the  courage  to  be  im- 
patient, but  let  him  have  the  patience 
to  be  brave.  Teach  him  always  to  have 
sublime  faith  in  himself  and  complete 
faith  in  God.  Do  you  mean  to  say  this 
is  teaching  religion?  Why,  this  is  teach- 
ing truth,  because  then  he  will  always 
have  sublime  faith  in  mankind.  And 
teach  him  to  love  his  fellow  men. 

"This  is  a  big  order,  teacher  and 
world,  but  see  what  you  can  do  for  my 
little  boy.  He  is  such  a  nice  fellow — 
my  son!" 

God  bless  all  teachers,  that  parents 
and  sons  and  daughters  will  not  be  dis- 
appointed in  you,  and  that  you  will  be 
able  to  lift  them  to  the  highest  level. 
Yes,  even  beyond  their  own  natural 
abilities.  That  is  real  teaching.  May 
God  reward  teachers  with  the  glad  sense 
of  their  eternal  worth  as  teachers. 

0  Lord,  in  the  heat  of  day,  show  them 
the  spring  by  the  wayside  that  flows 
from  the  eternal  silence  of  God  and  gives 
new  light  to  all  who  drink  of  it.  May 
God  give  you  teachers  the  brave  heart 
to  teach  what  is  true,  even  to  your  own 
hurt,  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the 
great  Creator  of  our  life,  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Savior. 

1  bear  testimony  to  you  that  God  is 
our  Father,  that  we  can  partake  of  his 
Spirit,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of 
God,  that  the  gospel  is  the  greatest 
power  in  the  earth.  This  testimony  I 
bear  to  all  men  everywhere  regardless 
of  your  station  in  life.  I  pray  that  you 
can  understand  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  because  if  it  is  made  a  part  of 
your  life,  and  if  you  can  realize  it  and 
accept  it,  that  God  still  governs  in  the 
affairs  of  men — I  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  if  you  will  accept  that,  you  will 
have  more  peace  and  comfort  from  this 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


99 


source  than  from  any  other  source  in 
the  world. 

Yes,  I  love  to  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  President  McKay  is  a  prophet  and 
that  this  Church  is  led  by  divine  guid- 
ance by  this  great  prophet.  I  bear 
testimony  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  of  God,  called  of  God  as  his 
mouthpiece  to  bring  forth  the  restored 
gospel  in  this  day  and  age.  I  plead  with 
you,  my  friends,  to  accept  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  promise 
you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  that  it 
will  bring  you  more  happiness,  more 
satisfaction,  and  more  peace  of  mind 
than  you  have  ever  known  in  your  life. 
It  will  help  you  solve  your  problems.  It 
will  help  you  carry  your  burdens.  It 
will  help  you  make  for  you  and  your 
family  a  new  and  better  life.  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  addressed  us  is  Elder 


Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  a  former  teacher  himself. 

Probably  you  noticed  my  hesitancy 
before  announcing  the  next  speaker, 
especially  my  counselors.  It  was  be- 
cause we  have  this  brief  interlude  before 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion sing,  "The  Morning  Breaks,  The 
Shadows  Flee." 


The  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "The  Morning 
Breaks,  The  Shadows  Flee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  those  who  have  just 
joined  us  by  radio  and  television. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Bishop  Robert  L.  Simpson. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  one  turns  the  pages  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, there  appear  the  writings  of  great 
men  of  ages  past  who  are  referred  to 
as  the  prophets.  The  books  of  the  New 
Testament  contain,  among  other  things, 
the  writings,  teachings,  and  history  of 
men  of  a  later  dispensation,  who  have 
been  designated  as  prophets.  We  also 
have  the  record  of  the  prophets  of  the 
western  part  of  the  world,  who  raised 
their  voices,  proclaiming  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  protesting  unrighteousness, 
and  teaching  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel. All  of  these  have  left  their  witness. 

A  prophet  is  one  who  has  been  called 
and  raised  up  by  the  Lord  to  further 
God's  purposes  among  his  children.  He 
is  one  who  has  received  the  priesthood 
and  speaks  with  authority.  Prophets 
are  teachers  and  defenders  of  the  gos- 
pel. They  bear  witness  of  the  divinity 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Prophets 
have  foretold  future  happenings,  but 
this  is  not  the  most  important  of  their 
responsibilities,  although  it  may  be  some 
evidence  of  prophetic  power. 

Righteous  leadership  has  been  needed 


in  each  dispensation  of  time,  and  God 
chose  prophets  for  this  purpose  long 
before  they  came  to  this  mortal  exist- 
ence. We  remember  the  Lord  spoke  to 
Abraham  and  showed  him  the  intelli- 
gences which  existed  before  the  earth 
was  created  and  said:  ".  .  .  Abraham, 
thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen 
before  thou  wast  born."  (Abr.  3:23.) 

In  speaking  to  Jeremiah  the  Lord 
said:  ".  .  .  before  thou  earnest  forth  out 
of  the  womb  I  sanctified  thee,  and  I 
ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto  the  na- 
tions." (Jer.  1:5.) 

After  the  formation  of  the  earth  and 
the  creation  of  man,  Adam  became  the 
patriarch  to  the  human  family  and 
the  first  prophet.  He  previously  sat  in  the 
council  that  planned  the  creation  of 
the  earth  and  participated  under  Christ 
in  the  execution  of  the  prearrangement. 
According  to  the  plan,  the  fall  of  Adam 
from  immortality  created  the  condition 
by  which  all  men  may  be  saved  from 
mortal  death  and  live  again  by  reason 
of  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  Christ.  In 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


100 

Sunday,  October  6 

spite  of  the  teachings  of  Adam,  people 
turned  from  righteousness. 

In  the  seventh  generation  a  dispensa- 
tion was  given  to  Enoch.  God  called 
him  to  prophesy  unto  the  people  and 
call  them  to  repentance.  He  went  forth 
in  the  land  among  the  people  and  cried 
with  a  loud  voice  against  their  iniquities. 
Enoch  understood  the  doctrine  of  the 
fall  and  the  atonement  and  taught  the 
gospel  as  it  had  been  given  to  Adam.  He 
gathered  a  great  multitude  of  people 
into  a  city  known  as  the  City  of  Holi- 
ness, which,  because  of  the  righteousness 
of  the  people,  was  lifted  from  the  earth. 

Corruption  soon  filled  the  earth  again 
and  God  raised  up  Noah  as  a  prophet 
to  teach  the  gospel. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Noah  called 
upon  the  children  of  men  that  they 
should  repent;  but  they  hearkened  not 
unto  his  words."  (Moses  8:20.) 

The  Lord  then  caused  the  earth  to 
be  covered  by  water,  destroying  the 
wicked  population  except  the  family 
of  Noah,  and  Noah  became  the  prophet 
to  a  new  generation,  holding  the  keys 
of  the  priesthood. 

As  we  continue  to  trace  history,  we 
come  to  another  period  when  apostasy 
swept  over  the  peoples  of  the  earth.  God 
spoke  to  Abraham,  a  follower  of  right- 
eousness and  revealed  many  things 
through  him  for  the  benefit  of  man- 
kind— the  order  of  the  priesthood,  a 
knowledge  of  the  planets  in  the  universe, 
a  vision  of  the  council  in  heaven  be- 
fore the  creation  of  the  earth,  and  the 
plan  of  salvation. 

Again  the  people  turned  to  darkness 
rather  than  light.  Moses  was  chosen 
to  lead  the  Israelites  from  Egyptian 
bondage.  On  Mt.  Sinai,  during  the 
migration  to  the  land  of  promise,  he 
was  given  the  Ten  Commandments  for 
the  benefit  of  his  people.  In  spite  of  his 
labors  to  teach  them  the  gospel,  they 
failed  to  take  heed,  so  the  Lord,  through 
this  great  prophet,  gave  them  what  has 
been  known  as  the  Law  of  Moses  or  the 
Law  of  Carnal  Commandments. 

The  western  world  was  not  without 
its  prophets.  From  the  writings  of 
Ether  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  read 
of  the  appearance  of  the  Lord  to  the 
brother  of  Jared.   As  this  people  ceased 


Third  Day 

to  serve  the  Lord  and  deteriorated  into 
unfaithfulness,  the  prophet  Lehi  was  in- 
structed to  bring  his  family  to  these 
shores,  and  a  new  gospel  dispensation 
was  established.  The  history  of  his 
descendants  is  a  series  of  leadership 
under  great  prophets,  but  as  the  people 
ceased  to  obey  their  counsel,  the  Lord 
withdrew  his  Spirit  from  them,  and  the 
race  was  destroyed. 

John  the  Baptist  was  the  forerunner 
of  Christ  and  proclaimed  the  same 
gospel  ordinances  which  had  been  in- 
stituted for  the  salvation  of  man  before 
the  world  was  created  and  which  had 
been  taught  by  the  prophets.  Then 
came  the  Master  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time,  fulfilling  that  which  had  been 
spoken  by  Adam  and  each  of  the  proph- 
ets since  his  time.  The  Son  of  God, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  was  born  into 
mortality.  Jesus  was  "God  manifest  in 
the  flesh."  (1  Tim.  3:16.)  He  taught 
by  precept  and  lived  the  perfect  life. 
He  made  the  atonement  for  sin  and 
gave  his  life  that  all  mankind  may  be 
saved  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel.  The  Twelve 
Apostles  were  the  personal  witnesses  of 
Christ,  but  after  the  death  of  the  last 
of  them,  there  was  a  falling  away.  The 
priesthood  was  lost  to  the  world,  and 
there  was  total  spiritual  darkness.  This 
condition  had  been  foretold  by  the 
ancient  prophets. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth 
century  there  had  been  no  revelation 
for  seventeen  hundred  years.  There 
had  been  no  heavenly  appearances  or 
scripture  during  that  time  and  the 
world  was  in  a  chaotic  religious  state. 
Many  times  the  gospel  had  been  given 
to  the  world  through  the  prophets,  and 
each  time  was  lost  because  of  disobedi- 
ence. In  the  year  1820  the  silence  was 
broken,  and  the  Lord  again  appeared 
to  a  prophet.  This  prophet,  Joseph 
Smith,  could  testify  of  his  own  positive 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  a  Resur- 
rected Being,  separate  and  distinct  from 
the  Father.  He  did  not  testify  as  to 
what  he  believed  or  what  he  or  others 
thought  or  conjectured,  but  of  what 
he  knew.  This  knowledge  came  to  him 
because  God  the  Father  and  the  Son 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


101 


appeared  to  him  in  person  and  spoke 
to  him.  Through  him  and  by  subse- 
quent events  the  priesthood  and  the 
gospel  in  its  fulness  were  once  more 
restored  to  the  earth,  never  again  to  be 
removed.  The  Church  of  Christ,  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  was  re- 
established and  destined,  according  to 
scripture,  to  roll  forth  and  fill  the  whole 
earth.  Since  the  death  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  each  succeeding  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  has  been  sustained 
as  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  there  is  a 
living  prophet  on  the  earth  today. 

To  peoples  of  past  dispensations  and 
ages,  the  most  important  prophet  was 
the  one  then  living,  teaching,  and  re- 
vealing the  will  of  the  Lord  in  their 
time.  In  each  of  the  past  dispensations, 
prophets  have  been  raised  up  by  the 
Lord  as  his  spokesmen  to  the  people  of 
that  particular  age  and  for  the  specific 
problems  of  that  age. 

It  is  the  present  living  prophet  who 
is  our  leader,  our  teacher.  It  is  from 
him  we  take  direction  in  the  modern 
world.  From  all  corners  of  the  earth, 
we  who  sustain  him  as  a  prophet  of  the 
Lord,  express  our  appreciation  for  this 
source  of  divine  guidance.  We  are  grate- 
ful for  his  life,  his  example,  his  teach- 
ings, his  leadership.  Ninety  years  of 
faith  and  devotion!  His  faith  has  not 
stood  alone  but  has  borne  fruit  all  over 
the  world.  If  he  is  tested  by  the  fruits 
of  faith  as  spelled  out  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment, we  will  find  that  his  life  is  a 
manifestation  of  each  of  them  and  can 
be  described  by  that  chain  of  "linked 
graces"  enumerated  in  the  Second  Epis- 
tle of  the  Apostle  Peter. 

To  faith  he  added  virtue.  His  life 
demonstrates  manly  strength,  courage, 
and  moral  excellence,  measured  not  by 
his  extraordinary  efforts,  but  by  his 
everyday  conduct. 

To  virtue  he  added  knowledge.  Since 
early  boyhood  he  has  been  a  student 
and  a  teacher,  in  both  the  formal  pur- 
suits of  education  and  in  the  great 
school  of  life.  His  experience,  practical 
skill,  understanding,  clear  perception  of 
truth,  knowledge  of  God  and  the  di- 
vine nature  of  man,  distinguish  him 
from  other  men  of  the  world. 

To  knowledge  he  added  temperance. 


He  is  the  master  of  himself  yet  submis- 
sive to  the  will  of  God.  He  demon- 
strates self-control  and  moderation  in 
all  things. 

And  to  temperance,  patience!  There 
are  often  occurrences  which  are  apt  to 
harass  the  temper,  but  in  his  sweet, 
kindly  way,  he  regards  them  with  calm 
endurance. 

And  to  patience  he  added  godliness. 
One  who  works  closely  with  him  has 
said,  "There  is  a  spirituality  radiating 
from  him  that  is  ofttimes  felt  by  even 
the  stranger  who  visits  him.  He  keeps 
himself  spiritually  tuned  to  heavenly 
things."  His  thoughts,  his  writings, 
his  teaching,  his  very  appearance  indi- 
cate the  presence  of  God  in  his  life. 

And  to  godliness  he  added  brotherly 
kindness.  The  story  is  told  of  a  con- 
ference concerning  a  difficult  problem 
when  he  said,  "Human  hearts  are  very 
tender,  and  human  lives  are  very 
precious.  Let's  solve  this  problem  with- 
out hurting  a  very  tender  heart." 

And  to  brotherly  kindness  he  added 
charity.  He  has  a  Christian  love  for 
all  men  because  they  are  the  sons 
of  God.  He  is  kind,  forgiving,  and 
compassionate. 

All  these  things  are  in  him  and 
abound  and  make  him  neither  barren 
nor  unfruitful.  They  distinguish  him  as 
a  prophet  of  the  Lord — our  President, 
David  O.  McKay. 

As  the  prophets  from  the  beginning 
to  the  present  day  pass  in  review  before 
our  memory,  we  become  aware  of  the 
great  blessing  which  comes  to  us  from 
the  influence  of  a  living  prophet.  His- 
tory should  teach  us  that  unless  we  are 
willing  to  heed  the  warnings  and  follow 
the  teachings  of  a  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
we  will  be  subject  to  the  judgments 
of  God. 

I  bear  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  there  is  a  living 
prophet  of  God  on  the  earth  today, 
whom  I  sustain  with  all  my  heart.  In 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Coun- 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Day 

cil  of  the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  member  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of 
from  Brother  Robert  L.   Simpson,  a     the  Church. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  true  greatness 
has  a  habit  of  surviving  the  years.  I 
am  certain  that  every  member  of  the 
Church  has  thrilled  to  the  words  of  a 
stalwart  young  man  of  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood age  who  lived  approximately 
twenty-six  hundred  years  ago.  When 
faced  with  a  difficult  situation,  he  said, 
"I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the 
Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that 
the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto 
the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  pre- 
pare a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
manded them."  (1  Nephi  3:7.) 

This  young  man,  destined  to  become 
a  great  prophet,  had  a  most  important 
quality.  He  had  courage,  courage  to 
stand  on  his  own  two  feet  rather  than 
follow  the  so-called  easier  way — the 
more  popular  way — the  beckoning  cf 
the  crowd,  in  this  case  his  own  brothers. 

Let  us  quickly  span  twenty-six  hun- 
dred years  and  review  a  story  of 
Aaronic  Priesthood  courage  in  our  day, 
1963.  My  heart  was  touched  just  last 
month  as  I  had  the  privilege  of  read- 
ing an  excerpt  from  a  serviceman's 
letter  to  his  parents.  Apparently,  his 
training  instructor  had  made  it  a  habit 
of  starting  each  day's  discussion  with  a 
few  off-color  stories. 

One  morning,  quite  by  surprise,  the 
instructor  asked  if  anyone  objected  to  a 
couple  of  "good"  stories  before  starting 
the  day's  instruction.  This  young  Mor- 
mon boy  said  that  almost  as  though  he 
had  been  ejected  from  his  seat  by  an 
unseen  power,  he  shot  up  and  said, 
"Yes,  sir,  1  object." 

After  a  long  stony  silence,  the  in- 
structor said,  "Are  there  any  others?" 
You  can  imagine  the  feelings  of  this 
boy's  heart  as  one  by  one  another  dozen 
or  so  young  army  recruits  stood  in  de- 
fense of  what  they  really  believed. 
Those  standing  were  invited  to  leave 
the  class,  and  then  halfway  out,  they 
were  called  back  with  a  comment  from 


the  instructor,  "I  guess  we  can  skip  the 
stories  this  morning." 

Wouldn't  you  like  the  privilege  of 
shaking  hands  with  that  kind  of  Aaronic 
Priesthood  courage?  Isn't  it  gratifying 
to  know  that  you  don't  have  to  turn 
the  pages  of  history  back  twenty-six 
hundred  years  to  find  the  courage  of  a 
Nephi  or  a  Daniel  in  the  lions'  den  or 
a  David  meeting  Goliath?  And  isn't 
it  also  gratifying  to  know  that  for  every 
courageous  heart  with  a  fortitude  to 
stand  up  and  be  counted,  there  will  be 
a  host  of  others  willing  to  rally  to  the 
cause  of  truth  and  right? 

Perhaps  there  might  be  a  high  school 
student  within  sound  of  my  voice  who 
finds  himself  at  the  crossroads  of  de- 
cision today;  whose  circle  of  closest 
friends  fail  to  live  by  the  rules  of  con- 
duct that  he  or  she  knows  to  be  right. 
Might  these  so-called  friends  be  urging 
you  to  take  one  more  step  away  from 
all  that  you  believe  in,  all  that  is 
sacred?  Could  these  be  the  same  first 
easy  steps  taken  by  a  teenage  boy  re- 
cently who  stated  to  a  juvenile  judge, 
"I  just  didn't  realize  it  was  happening — 
it  was  so  gradual";  or  the  girl  who 
pleaded,  "I  wanted  so  much  to  be  popu- 
lar with  the  others — and  I  was  so 
wrong." 

How  grateful  we  can  be  that  these 
young  people  had  the  courage  to  recog- 
nize their  misdirection — and  then  even 
more  courage  to  do  what  needed  to  be 
done  in  realigning  their  lives  to  correct 
standards. 

Now,  courage  is  an  easy  word  to 
say.  To  be  effective,  there  must  be 
action — just  like  our  serviceman  a  mo- 
ment ago — positive  action  in  the  right 
direction  which  can  only  happen  when 
that  courage  is  inspired  through  positive, 
proper  motivation. 

Now,  join  with  me,  young  people, 
through  a  thought  sequence  which 
should  prove  helpful  to  serious-minded 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


103 


church  members  as  a  basis  for  motiva- 
tion in  the  right  direction: 

First,  let  us  reconfirm  in  our  minds 
that  there  is  a  Heavenly  Father,  that 
he  is  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth 
and  directs  all  that  we  survey. 

Second,  let  us  be  assured  that  his 
house  is  a  house  of  order,  even  to  the 
extent  that  you  and  I  have  come  to 
mortality  now,  in  this  day,  by  specific 
assignment  for  a  real  purpose. 

Have  you  ever  asked  yourself  the 
question,  "Why  wasn't  I  born  two  hun- 
dred years  ago,  or  a  thousand  years  ago?" 
There  is  only  one  reason,  young  peo- 
ple, because  the  Lord  wanted  you  born 
now,  in  this  important  day. 

Step  No.  3,  can  we  know  for  assur- 
ance that  a  young  boy  knelt  in  a  grove 
of  trees  in  the  year  1820  and  there  re- 
ceived a  personal  visitation  from  God 
the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ? 
Have  you  read  the  Joseph  Smith  story 
lately,  with  a  real  desire  to  know  its 
truthfulness? 

The  fourth  step:  Why  are  you  a 
member  of  this  Church  and  kingdom? 
Could  this  be  by  chance?  By  your  se- 
lection only?  The  Savior  has  this  to 
say  in  the  fifteenth  chapter  of  John: 
"Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have 
chosen  you,  and  ordained  you,  .  .  ." 
(Verse  16.) 

As  surely  as  we  meet  in  this  historic 
tabernacle,  I  know  that  foreordination 
is  a  real  part  of  the  plan — we  have  a 
responsibility — a  divine  commission,  if 
you  please,  conferred  prior  to  mortal 
existence  that  can  neither  be  disregarded 
nor  taken  lightly  without  far-reaching 
consequences. 

The  fifth  and  final  point  I  suggest 
is  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  a  most 
precious  gift  that  we  call  free  agency. 
And  after  all  is  said  and  done,  the  final 
decision  is  ours  with  regard  to  our  tal- 
ents, our  divine  commission,  our  choice 
between  left  or  right,  right  or  wrong. 

Youth  of  Zion,  do  you  have  the  cour- 
age to  do  right?  I  sometimes  wonder 
how  we  could  have  the  courage  to  do 
anything  but  right  if  we  really  believe 
in  the  foregoing  steps  of  logic.  Let  us 
just  enumerate  them  again  briefly: 

1.  God  lives. 

2.  His  house  is  a  house  of  order. 


3.  The  heavens  have  been  opened 
and  remain  open  today. 

4.  We  are  here  by  appointment,  by 
foreordination. 

5.  And  finally,  the  choice  is  ours  as 
to  what  we  do  about  it. 

Now  not  only  do  we  need  courage  in 
choosing  our  way,  but  we  also  need 
help.  The  best  source  of  help  is  from 
those  who  love  us.  I  would  like  to  re- 
confirm a  truth  that  has  been  spoken 
from  this  pulpit  many  times,  that  no 
one  loves  us  like  our  parents,  like  our 
bishop,  like  our  Heavenly  Father.  May 
we  always  seek  our  counsel  and  guid- 
ance from  these  three  sources. 

Youth  is  energetic;  youth  is  aggres- 
sive. The  mind  of  youth  is  inquisitive, 
sometimes  beyond  sound  judgment 
which  often  leads  us  into  dangerous 
territory.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
had  this  to  say  to  Martin  Harris  in 
kindly  reprimand:  "When  a  man  de- 
signedly provokes  a  serpent  to  bite  him, 
the  principle  is  the  same  as  when  a 
man  drinks  deadly  poison,  knowing  it 
to  be  such.  In  that  case,  no  man  has 
any  claim  on  the  promises  of  God  to 
be  healed."  (DHC  2,  95-96.)  By  the 
same  token,  can  we  expect  the  protec- 
tion we  need  when  we  knowingly  step 
beyond  the  limits  of  good  judgment? 
Moroni's  reiteration  of  Mormon's  teach- 
ings gives  us  the  key  for  keeping  a 
solid  footing. 

"For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  is 
given  to  every  man,  that  he  may  know 
good  from  evil;  wherefore,  I  show  unto 
you  the  way  to  judge;  for  every  thing 
which  inviteth  to  do  good,  and  to  per- 
suade to  believe  in  Christ,  is  sent  forth 
by  the  power  and  gift  of  Christ;  where- 
fore ye  may  know  with  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge it  is  of  God. 

"But  whatsoever  thing  persuadeth 
men  to  do  evil,  and  believe  not  in 
Christ,  and  deny  him,  and  serve  not 
God,  then  ye  may  know  with  a  perfect 
knowledge  it  is  of  the  devil;  for  after 
this  manner  doth  the  devil  work,  for  he 
persuadeth  no  man  to  do  good,  no,  not 
one;  neither  do  his  angels;  neither  do 
they  who  subject  themselves  unto  him." 
(Moroni  7:16-17.  Italics  added.) 

Yes,  youth  of  Zion,  history  is  still 
being  made,  and  whether  you  like  it 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

or  not,  you  have  a  hand  in  it.  You 
will  need  courage  and  lots  of  it.  You  will 
need  the  help  of  those  who  love  you 
and  the  support  of  loyal  friends,  real 
friends,  friends  who  would  encourage 
you  in  "every  thing  which  inviteth  to 
do  good,"  as  stated  by  Moroni. 

Now  in  conclusion,  may  I  suggest 
that  this  Church  is  not  idly  named. 
We  are  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  These  are  the 
latter  days;  this  is  the  final  dispensation 
of  time,  and  the  programs  of  the  Church 
are  all  moving  toward  a  sort  of  finaliza- 
tion  or  culmination.  There  is  an 
urgency  as  never  before  about  what 
needs  to  be  done;  and  be  sure  of  this, 
what  needs  to  be  done  will  be  done 
on  schedule,  we  hope  by  those  initially 
foreordained  to  the  task.  But  just  as 
surely  as  night  follows  the  day,  if  we 
choose  not  to  accept  our  station,  or  if 
we  grow  weary  along  the  way,  placing 
less  important  things  first,  there  will  be 
substitutes  raised  to  take  our  place, 
that  the  Lord's  time-plan  and  ultimate 
purposes  will  not  be  thwarted. 


Third  Day 

Youth  of  Zion,  stand  up  and  be 
counted,  have  the  courage  of  your  con- 
victions, and  whatever  you  do,  don't 
allow  someone  else  to  be  a  substitute 
for  you  in  the  kingdom  of  your  Heav- 
enly Father,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Robert 
L.  Simpson  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
one  of  three  men  holding  the  presidency 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  The  Taber- 
nacle Choir  will  now  sing  "Children 
of  The  Heavenly  Father,"  after  which 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


The  Choir  sang  "Children  Of  The 
Heavenly  Father." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  seek  earnestly  for  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  by  which,  hopefully,  my  humble 
message  might  be  carried  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  into  the  hearts  of 
those  who  may  listen  this  morning. 

A  few  years  ago  I  was  touring  the 
North  Central  States  Mission,  and  in 
Sioux  Falls,  South  Dakota,  a  father  and 
a  daughter  sought  me  for  an  interview 
following  the  conference  sessions.  He 
explained  that  in  his  younger  years  he 
had  joined  a  church  which  did  not 
baptize  by  immersion.  Because  of  his 
certainty  as  he  studied  the  scriptures 
that  immersion  was  the  only  true  mode 
of  baptism,  he  later  joined  a  church 
where  he  was  baptized  by  immersion. 
And  then  he  had  an  uncle  who  be- 
longed to  a  church  who  taught  that 
everything  in  all  other  churches  was 
evil.  He  decided  to  join  the  church 
of  his  uncle. 

Later  a  friend  told  him  about  a  uni- 
versal church.    It  had  no  organization, 


needed  no  authoritative  priesthood,  no 
rituals.  They  had  no  buildings,  they 
had  nebulous  formula:  "Believe  and  be 
saved."  And  so  he  joined  with  this 
friend. 

Recently  his  daughter  had  gone  to  a 
Bible  class,  following  her  school  years, 
and  had  been  graduated  just  a  few  days 
before  as  an  honor  student.  And  in  the 
concluding  session  the  minister  who  had 
conducted  the  course  had  asked  them 
for  any  expressions  or  questions.  This 
bright  young  honor  student  began  to 
ask  some  of  the  questions  that  two 
Latter-day  Saint  elders,  who  had  been 
coming  to  their  home,  had  been  asking. 
The  minister  became  confused  and 
very  angry,  and  in  a  rebuke  he  said 
if  she  had  learned  as  she  should  have 
learned  in  the  course  she  wouldn't  be 
asking  such  foolish  questions. 

They  were  now  being  taught  by  two 
of  our  missionaries  in  the  fundamental 
doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  he  said 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


105 


to  me  after  this  brief  introduction: 
"This  time,  if  I  join  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  I  don't 
want  to  make  another  mistake.  How 
can  I  be  sure?" 

I  explained  the  only  way  to  a  con- 
vincing assurance  by  quoting  the  words 
of  Moroni:  ".  .  .  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a 
sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
(Moroni  10:4-5.)  Having  quoted  that, 
I  then  said,  "Now  I  might  enumerate 
some  of  the  outward  evidences  by  which 
one  might  recognize  the  divine  Church." 

The  name  of  the  Church  itself  is  sig- 
nificant in  one's  search  for  the  true 
Church.  When  the  Master  was  asked 
by  his  disciples  by  what  name  his 
Church  should  be  called,  he  answered: 
"And  how  be  it  my  church  save  it  be 
called  in  my  name?  For  if  a  church 
be  called  in  Moses'  name  then  it  be 
Moses'  church;  or  if  it  be  called  in  the 
name  of  a  man  then  it  be  the  church 
of  a  man;  .  .  ."  (3  Nephi  27:8.) 

In  our  day,  by  revelation,  the  Lord 
has  clearly  declared  the  correct  name, 
I  told  him:  "For  thus  shall  my  church 
be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints"  (D&C  115:4),  thus  distinguish- 
ing this  dispensation  from  former-day 
Saints,  affixed  to  the  name  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

But  then  I  reminded  him  that  even 
though  it  bears  the  Master's  name,  there 
must  be  coupled  with  the  name  of  the 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  another  vital  es- 
sential in  the  true  Church.  After  the 
Master  had  explained  the  name  by 
which  his  Church  should  be  named, 
he  added,  ".  .  .  but  if  it  be  called  in 
my  name  then  it  is  my  church,  if  it  so 
be  that  they  are  built  upon  my  gospel." 
(3  Nephi  27:8.) 

And  then  I  asked  him  in  turn,  what 
is  his  gospel?  The  Lord  has  said  in 
revelation:  "And  this  is  my  gospel — 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water,  and 
then  cometh  the  baptism  of  fire  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  even  the  Comforter,  which 
showeth  all  things,  and  teacheth  the 


peaceable  things  of  the  kingdom." 
(D&C  39:6.) 

In  modern  revelation  the  true  Church 
has  been  defined  as  the  Church  having 
the  authority  to  confer  the  Holy  Ghost, 
even  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which 
gives  to  those  who  make  themselves 
worthy,  the  right  to  have  all  peaceable 
things  of  the  kingdom  revealed  to  them. 
This  makes  clear  the  meaning  of  the 
explanation  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
when  asked  by  a  President  of  the 
United  States,  "How  is  your  church 
different  from  all  the  other  churches?" 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  answered  in 
one  significant  statement,  "We  are  dif- 
ferent from  all  other  churches  because 
we  have  the  Holy  Ghost"  (see  DHC 
4,  42);  in  other  words,  meaning  that 
the  principle  of  continuous  revelation 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  a 
prime  requisite  for  the  true  Church. 

Paul  the  apostle  I  reminded  him, 
made  a  clear  observation  in  two  state- 
ments relative  to  the  essentials  of  the 
Church.  "Know  ye  not,"  the  Apostle 
Paul  asked,  "that  so  many  of  us  as 
were  baptized  into  Jesus  Christ  were 
baptized  into  his  death? 

"Therefore  we  are  buried  with  him 
by  baptism  into  death:  that  like  as 
Christ  was  raised  up  from  the  dead  by 
the  glory  of  the  Father,  even  so  we 
also  should  walk  in  newness  of  life. 

"For  if  we  have  been  planted  together 
in  the  likeness  of  his  death,  we  shall 
be  also  in  the  likeness  of  his  resur- 
rection." (Rom.  6:3-5.) 

And  then  he  wrote  to  the  Galatians: 
"For  ye  are  all  the  children  of  God  by 
faith  in  Christ  Jesus. 

"For  as  many  of  you  as  have  been 
baptized  into  Christ  have  put  on  Christ. 

"There  is  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  there 
is  neither  bond  nor  free,  there  is  neither 
male  nor  female:  for  ye  are  all  one  in 
Christ  Jesus. 

"And  if  ye  be  Christ's,  then  are  ye 
Abraham's  seed,  and  heirs  according  to 
the  promise."  (Gal.  3:26-29.) 

I  told  our  friend  that  the  true  Church 
was  to  be  patterned  after  the  Master's 
organization,  in  the  which  the  Apostle 
Paul  has  said  we  must  not  be  ".  .  . 
strangers  and  foreigners,  but  fellow- 
citizens  with  the  Saints,  .  .  ."  And  the 


106 

Sunday,  October  6 

Church  must  be  ".  .  .  built  upon  the 
foundation  of  the  apostles  and  prophets, 
Jesus  Christ  himself  being  the  chief 
corner  stone;"  (Eph.  2:19-20.) 

There  were  other  specific  signs  which 
the  Master  said  would  follow  the 
believers  in  his  Church.  "He  that  be- 
lieveth  and  is  baptized  shall  be 
saved;  .  .  . 

"And  these  signs  shall  follow  them 
that  believe;  In  my  name  shall  they 
cast  out  devils;  they  shall  speak  with 
new  tongues; 

"They  shall  take  up  serpents;  and  if 
they  drink  any  deadly  thing,  it  shall 
not  hurt  them;  they  shall  lay  hands  on 
the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover." 
(Mark  16:16-18.) 

I  reminded  him  that  there  was  a 
need  for  authority  which  cannot  be 
just  assumed,  merely,  but  must  be  con- 
ferred in  the  Lord's  own  way  as  the 
Apostle  Paul  said,  "And  no  man  taketh 
this  honour  unto  himself,  but  he  that 
is  called  of  God,  as  was  Aaron."  (Heb. 
5:4.)  This,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
made  plainer  when  he  said,  "We  be- 
lieve that  a  man  must  be  called  of 
God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in 
authority  to  preach  the  Gospel  and  ad- 
minister in  the  ordinances  thereof." 
(Articles  of  Faith,  No.  5.) 

And  then  there  was  a  never,  never 
failing  evidence,  which  might  be  shock- 
ing to  him,  which  evidences  the  divinity 
of  the  true  Church.  The  Master  said, 
in  almost  his  closing  remarks  to 
his  disciples: 

"Blessed  are  they  which  are  perse- 
cuted for  righteousness'  sake:  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  re- 
vile you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall 
say  all  manner  of  evil  against  you 
falsely,  for  my  sake. 

"Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad;  for 
great  is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so 
persecuted  they  the  prophets  which  were 
before  you."  (Matt.  5:10-12.) 

And  the  opposite  of  that  the  Master 
warned:  "Woe  unto  you,  when  all  men 
shall  speak  well  of  you!  for  so  did  their 
fathers  to  the  false  prophets."  (Luke 
6:26.) 

Our  missionaries  are  finding  thou- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sands  each  year  who  are  in  a  state  of 
inquiry  and  uncertainty  as  were  our 
friend  and  his  daughter  in  South  Da- 
kota. They  bear  witness  that  all  these 
outward  evidences  of  the  true  Church 
are  readily  discernible.  They  further 
point  out  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  which  all  may  know  the  truth  of 
all  things. 

A  short  while  ago  in  Philadelphia  I 
was  handed  a  clipping  from  a  Phila- 
delphia newspaper  reporting  a  statement 
made  by  the  Associate  Secretary  General 
of  the  State  of  Churches  of  the  Assembly 
of  National  Churches  representing  thirty 
denominations.  The  article  was  entitled 
"Drift  from  God  in  Churches."  I  shall 
read  but  a  few  sentences: 

"American  churches  in  many  cases 

were  described  today  as  being  too  'public 

relations    conscious' — more    eager  to 

please  the  crowd  than  to  please  God." 
***** 

"Many  churches,  yielding  to  secular 
practice  have  become  public  relations 
conscious.  There  is  as  much  if  not  more 
concern  for  the  attractiveness  of  the 
package  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  mar- 
keting techniques  than  for  the  quality 

of  the  product." 

***** 

"Modern  churches  too  often  have 
put  the  accent  on  secular  yardsticks 
of  success — size,  statistics  and  outward 
attractiveness  —  rather  than  spiritual 
dedication." 

***** 

"Many  congregations  would  rather 
have  a  minister  who  is  a  'good  adminis- 
trator and  promoter'  than  one  who  is 
'a  loyal  and  humble  disciple  of  Jesus 
Christ,  a  thinker  and  a  fearless  prophet 

of  the  sovereign  and  redeeming  Lord.' " 
***** 

"Too  many  people  speak  vaguely  of 

the  need  of  'faith  and  religion'  rather 

than  of  the  real  need' — of  God,  of  a 

'return  to  the  Father.'  " 

***** 

Then  I  picked  up  a  clipping  also  while 
I  was  in  Philadelphia  about  a  year  ago 
from  Dr.  Henry  P.  Van  Dusen,  president 
of  the  Union  Theological  Seminary,  in 
which  he  said  this,  as  quoted  in  the 
paper: 

"A  sharp  and  strange  contrast  between 
the  upsurge  of  religion  and  a  decline  in 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


107 


morality  was  noted  by  Dr.  Henry  P. 
Van  Dusen,  .  .  . 

"It  is  a  disturbing,  confounding  con- 
tradiction that  the  revival  of  religion  has 
no  parallel  resurgence  in  morality.  If 
the  complex  and  illusive  data  could  be 
plotted  on  a  graph,  it  would  show  curves 
of  religious  vitality  and  of  moral  health 
moving  in  opposite  directions. 

"Thus  far,  the  return  to  religion  in 
our  day  has  produced  no  corresponding 
moral  fruitage.  It  raises  the  question  as 
to  the  quality  and  worth  of  the  religion. 

"Either  there  will  be  moral  revival 
flowering  from  religious  revival,  or  the 
latter  will  fritter  into  futility.  And  our 
final  state  will  be  a  religious  sterility 
to  match  the  moral  anarchy. 

"Interest  in  religion  appears  to  be  at 
an  all-time  high,  with  church  member- 
ship over  100  million,  but  delinquency, 
(I  remind  you)  immorality,  and  social 
confusion  also  are  at  peaks." 

As  I  made  note  of  those  articles  I 
thought  to  myself,  it  is  time  for  us  to 
make  a  critical  self-analysis  of  ourselves 
to  see  how  much  of  this  applies  to  us  as 
a  Church  and  to  us  as  individuals. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  said 
something:  "The  trouble  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  spend  too  much 
time  confessing  the  other  fellow's  sins." 

Nephi  the  prophet  warned  something 
about  this  as  he  predicted  about  our  day. 
"Wo  unto  them  that  turn  aside  the 
just  for  a  thing  of  naught  and  revile 
against  that  which  is  good,  and  say 
that  is  of  no  worth!  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi 
28:16.)  Obviously  this  was  intended 
for  those  in  Zion  or  for  the  pure  in 
heart  of  the  Church. 

"For  behold,  at  that  day,"  Nephi 
said,  "shall  he  (Lucifer)  rage  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and  stir 
them  up  to  anger  against  that  which 
is  good. 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull 
them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say:  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea, 
Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus 
the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and 
leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to 
hell."  (Ibid.,  28:20-21.) 

And  then  he  warns,  "Therefore,  wo 
be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease  in  Zion!" 
(Ibid.,  28:24.) 


"Cursed  is  he,"  Nephi  again  said, 
"that  putteth  his  trust  in  man,  or 
maketh  flesh  his  arm,  or  shall  hearken 
unto  the  precepts  of  men,  save  their 
precepts  shall  be  given  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (Ibid.,  28:31.) 

Moroni  finished  the  record  of  his 
father  Mormon  and  then  added  some 
inspired  observations  of  his  own  con- 
cerning ".  .  .  things  .  .  .  which  must 
shortly  come  (to  pass),  .  .  .  when  these 
things  (presumably  meaning  the  com- 
ing forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon)  shall 
come  forth  among  you."  Now  that 
means  our  day.  This  is  what  he  said 
(and  note  the  definition  of  a  prophecy)  : 
He  said,  "Behold,  I  speak  unto  you  as 
if  ye  were  present,  and  yet  ye  are  not. 
But  behold,  Jesus  Christ  hath  shown 
you  unto  me,  and  I  know  your  doing." 
(Mormon  8:34-35.) 

You  remember  what  the  Master  said, 
the  devil  shall  rage  in  the  hearts  of 
men  even  so  much  that  if  it  were  pos- 
sible the  very  elect  according  to  the 
covenant  would  be  deceived.  This  is 
what  Moroni  said:  "And  I  know  that 
ye  do  walk  in  the  pride  of  your  hearts; 
and  there  are  none  save  a  few  only 
who  do  not  lift  themselves  up  in  the 
pride  of  their  hearts,  unto  the  wearing 
of  very  fine  apparel,  unto  envying,  and 
strifes,  and  malice,  and  persecutions, 
and  all  manner  of  iniquities;  and  your 
churches,  yea,  even  every  one,  have 
become  polluted  because  of  the  pride 
of  your  hearts. 

"For  behold,  ye  do  love  money,  and 
your  substance,  and  your  fine  apparel, 
and  the  adorning  of  your  churches, 
more  than  ye  love  the  poor  and  the 
needy,  the  sick  and  the  afflicted." 
(Ibid.,  8:36-37.) 

As  I  read  that,  I  thanked  the  Lord  that 
for  a  quarter  of  a  century  in  our  life- 
time the  Church  has,  through  the  wel- 
fare program,  sought  to  place  the  proper 
emphasis  where  the  Lord  has  placed  it, 
by  putting  foremost  the  love  of  the 
poor  and  the  needy. 

One  of  the  first  revelations  the  Lord 
said  in  our  day:  "And  even  so  I  have 
sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the 
world,  to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  and 
to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for 
the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be  a 


108 

Sunday,  October  6 

messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the 
way  before  me."  (D&C  45:9.) 

"But"  the  Lord  said,  "there  is  a  possi- 
bility that  man  may  fall  from  grace 
and  depart  from  the  living  God." 

Mark  that,  you  who  come  in  as  con- 
verts to  the  Church!  "Therefore  let  the 
church  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest 
they  fall  into  temptation; 

"Yea,  and  even  let  those  who  are 
sanctified  take  heed  also."  (Ibid., 
20:32-34.) 

The  more  complicated  our  lives  and 
world  conditions  become,  the  more  im- 
portant it  is  for  us  to  keep  clear  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  not  the  function 
of  religion  to  answer  all  the  questions 
about  God's  moral  government  of  the 
universe,  but  to  give  one  courage, 
through  faith,  to  go  on  in  the  face 
of  questions  he  never  finds  the  answer  to 
in  his  present  status. 

It  was  the  wise  counsel  of  a  thinker 
who  said:  "If  the  time  comes  when  you 
can  no  longer  hold  to  your  faith,  then 
hold  to  it  anyway.  You  cannot  go  into 
tomorrow's  uncertainty  and  dangers 
without  faith." 

Let  parents  and  leaders  and  church 
members  generally,  and  hopefully  our 
nonmember  friends  and  relatives  take 
heed  of  the  counsels  repeatedly  given 
from  our  leaders.  Allow  time  to  medi- 
tate and  ponder  the  things  pertaining 
to  our  ministry.  Live  that  we  might  be 
responsive  to  divine  direction.  Let  me 
again,  as  I  close,  repeat  what  I  have 
quoted  before  from  a  revelation  of  the 
Lord.    "Search  diligently,  pray  always, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  be  believing,  and  all  things  shall 
work  together  for  your  good,  if  ye  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord  and  keep  the 
covenant  wherewith  ye  have  covenanted 
one  with  another."  (Ibid.,  90:24.)  This 
I  pray  humbly  we  may  all  do  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  been  our  concluding 
speaker. 

We  shall  now  end  the  Sixth  Session 
of  the  133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  with  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  singing,  "Praise  Ye  The  Lord." 
Following  the  singing  the  benediction 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  T.  Bowring 
Woodbury,  formerly  president  of  the 
British  Mission.  This  Conference  will 
then  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock 
this  afternoon. 

We  wish  to  express  thanks  and  appre- 
ciation to  the  owners  and  managers  of 
the  many  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  United  States  and 
Canada  who  have  offered  their  facilities 
as  a  public  service  to  make  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Conference  available  to 
millions  throughout  North  America, 
South  America,  Africa,  and  in  many 
other  areas  of  the  world. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  a  clos- 
ing number,  "Praise  Ye  The  Lord,"  fol- 
lowing which  the  closing  prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  T.  Bowring  Wood- 
bury, formerly  president  of  the  Brit- 
ish Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday, 
October  6,  1963. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie, 
and  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting,  Alexander 
Schreiner,  organist. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services.     As  an 


introduction  to  the  meeting  he  made  the 
following  preliminary  remarks. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  seventh  and  con- 
cluding session  of  the  133rd  Semi-An- 
nual Conference.    For  those  who  are 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


109 


unable  to  enter  the  building  we  an- 
nounce that  these  services  are  being  seen 
and  heard  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over 
television.  This  afternoon  many  radio 
stations  throughout  the  western  part  of 
the  United  States  will  carry  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  session.  Television  sta- 
tions in  Utah,  Idaho,  Montana  will  also 
televise  this  concluding  session.  The 
proceedings  of  both  sessions  today  will 
be  rebroadcast  to  far  distant  places  by 
radio  station  KSL  Monday,  October  7, 
from  one  o'clock  to  five  o'clock  a.m. 

The  General  Priesthood  Meeting, 
which  was  the  fifth  session  of  this  Con- 
ference, was  held  in  this  Tabernacle, 
with  an  overflow  meeting  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall.  The  proceedings  of  this 
Priesthood  Meeting  were  relayed  by 
closed  circuit  wire  originating  in  the 
Tabernacle  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  370  locations  in  all 
parts  of  the  United  States,  including 
Alaska  and  Canada.  It  is  estimated  that 
70,000  men  and  boys  participated  in  this 
meeting  by  direct  wire,  in  addition  to 
the  12,000  present  in  the  Tabernacle 
and  Assembly  Hall. 

We  extend  a  cordial  welcome  to  all 
present  this  afternoon — special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  our  stake  presi- 
dencies from  far  and  near,  temple 
presidencies,  bishoprics,  members  of 
General  Auxiliary  Boards,  and  members 
of  the  Church  and  friends  everywhere 
who  are  listening  in  by  radio  and 
television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 


rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing  "Lovely  Ap- 
pear," with  Brother  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  The  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Rudger  G.  Smith,  presi- 
dent of  the  Phoenix  North  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  an 
opening  number,  "Lovely  Appear,"  con- 
ducted by  Jay  E.  Welch. 

Elder  Rudger  G.  Smith,  president  of 
the  Phoenix  North  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Rudger  G.  Smith  of  the  Phoenix 
North  Stake.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing  "Lord,  Hear  Our  Suppli- 
cation," conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 
After  the  singing  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stap- 
ley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
address  us. 


Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Lord,  Hear 
Our  Supplication." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends: 
Because  of  disturbing  trends  and 
alarming  conditions  in  this  country  of 
ours  which  are  of  great  concern  to  every 
loyal,  patriotic  citizen,  I  desire  to  draw 
related  analogies  between  the  nation  of 
ancient  Israel  and  our  own  nation  in 
the  light  of  the  revelations  of  Almighty 
God  concerning  both  nations. 

To  each  nation,  God  gave  promises 
of  blessings  or  cursings,  depending  upon 
the  faithfulness  of  the  people.  In  all 
the  recorded  history  of  man  upon  the 


earth,  the  God  of  heaven  has  estab- 
lished only  two  nations  with  basic 
divine  purposes.  One  is  the  nation  of 
Israel  which  the  Lord  by  his  mighty 
power  led  out  of  Egypt  under  the  guid- 
ance of  his  prophet  Moses. 

The  other  nation  is  the  United  States 
of  America.  Prophets  in  early  times 
foretold  the  events  leading  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  this  mighty  gentile  nation 
and  its  promised  destiny  among  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth — if  its  people  are 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God. 

Moses  counseled  the  newborn  nation 
of  Israel  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  keep 
his  laws  and  statutes.  He  informed 
them  of  God's  plans  and  purposes  con- 
cerning his  chosen  people  and  also  out- 
lined his  promises  for  faithful  obedience 
to  his  laws  and  commandments  and  the 
cursings  which  would  befall  them  if 
they  became  disobedient  and  sinful. 

From  Deuteronomy,  I  quote  the  fol- 
lowing teachings  and  admonitions  of 
Moses  to  the  children  of  Israel: 

"Behold,  I  set  before  you  this  day  a 
blessing  and  a  curse; 

"A  blessing,  if  ye  obey  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  your  God,  .  .  . 

"And  a  curse,  if  ye  will  not  obey  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  your  God, 
but  turn  aside  out  of  the  way  ...  to  go 
after  other  gods,  which  ye  have  not 
known."  (Deut.  11:26-28.) 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  thou 
shalt  hearken  diligently  unto  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  thy  God,  to  observe  and 
to  do  all  his  commandments  which  I 
command  thee  this  day,  that  the  Lord 
thy  God  will  set  thee  on  high  above 
all  nations  of  the  earth: 

"And  the  Lord  shall  make  thee  the 
head,  and  not  the  tail;  and  thou  shalt 
be  above  only,  and  thou  shalt  not  be 
beneath;  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  28:1,  13.) 

Regardless  of  the  many  prophets, 
Israel  was  periodically  blessed  with  fol- 
lowing the  death  of  the  great  law- 
giver, Moses,  the  continued  disobedience 
and  the  contentions  among  its  tribes  not 
only  divided  them  as  a  people  but  also 
destroyed  them  as  a  nation;  and  true  to 
his  warning,  God  scattered  Israel  among 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

With  these  few  pronouncements  of 
God  to  Israel  in  mind,  I  turn  to  the 
second  nation  of  destiny,  the  United 
States  of  America — a  nation  established 
by  God  in  these  latter  days  in  fulfil- 
ment of  prophecy,  with  wonderful 
promises  for  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  and  cursings  if  it  fails 
to  keep  his  commandments. 

There  were  two  groups  of  people  be- 
fore the  time  of  Christ  who  were  led 
away  from  eastern  lands  by  the  Lord 
to  the  Americas,  and  they  became,  in 


Third  Day 

time,  quite  numerous.  Eventually,  how- 
ever, because  of  disobedience  and  wick- 
edness, they  were  destroyed,  except  a 
remnant  of  the  second  group  who  are 
the  progenitors  of  the  American  Indian. 
These  two  migrations  of  people  to  the 
Americas  received  knowledge  by  revela- 
tion through  their  prophets  concerning 
a  powerful  gentile  nation  which  was  to 
be  established  in  the  latter  days  upon 
this  land  by  the  hand  of  God. 

Now  let  us  briefly  examine  the  revela- 
tions and  prophecies  as  recorded  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  foretelling  America's 
discovery,  its  peopling  from  the  Euro- 
pean gentile  nations,  the  events  leading 
to  the  break  with  Great  Britain,  the 
Revolutionary  War  which  secured  in- 
dependence for  the  colonies  from  the 
tyranny  of  oppression  of  an  unjust  king 
and  nation.  An  angel  showed  to  Nephi, 
an  American  prophet  who  lived  about 
six  hundred  years  before  Christ,  the 
many  waters  which  separated  the  gen- 
tile nations  from  the  seed  of  his  breth- 
ren.  He  recorded  this  vision  as  follows: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel 
said  unto  me:  Behold  the  wrath  of 
God  is  upon  the  seed  of  thy  brethren. 

"And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man 
among  the  Gentiles,  who  was  separated 
from  the  seed  of  my  brethren  by  the 
many  waters;  and  ...  the  Spirit  of 
God  .  .  .  came  down  and  wrought  upon 
the  man;  and  he  went  forth  upon  the 
many  waters,  even  unto  the  seed  of  my 
brethren,  who  were  in  the  promised 
land. 

"And  ...  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  God, 
that  it  wrought  upon  other  Gentiles; 
and  they  went  forth  out  of  captivity, 
upon  the  many  waters. 

"And  ...  I  beheld  many  multitudes 
of  the  Gentiles  upon  the  land  of 
promise;  .  .  . 

"And  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
that  it  was  upon  the  Gentiles,  and  they 
did  prosper  and  obtain  the  land  for 
their  inheritance;  .  .  . 

"And  .  .  .  the  Gentiles  who  had  gone 
forth  out  of  captivity  did  humble  them- 
selves before  the  Lord;  and  the  power 
of  the  Lord  was  with  them. 

"And  I  beheld  that  their  mother  Gen- 
tiles were  gathered  together  upon  the 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


111 


waters,  and  upon  the  land  also,  to 
battle  against  them. 

"And  i  beheld  that  the  power  of 
God  was  with  them,  and  also  that  the 
wrath  of  God  was  upon  all  those  that 
were  gathered  together  against  them  to 
battle. 

"And  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gen- 
tiles that  had  gone  out  of  captivity 
were  delivered  by  the  power  of  God 
out  of  the  hands  of  all  other  nations. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi, 
beheld  that  they  did  prosper  in  the 
land;  ..."  (1  Nephi  13:11-20.) 

From  your  knowledge  of  early  Ameri- 
can history,  you  will  recognize  Colum- 
bus as  the  man  who  went  forth  upon 
the  many  waters  and  discovered  the 
Americas.  The  other  facts  of  this 
prophecy  and  its  fulfilment  are  also 
known  to  you  from  America's  recorded 
history.  This  same  prophet,  speaking 
of  the  house  of  Israel  being  scattered  and 
confounded,  predicted: 

".  .  .  that  the  Lord  God  will  raise 
up  a  mighty  nation  among  the  Gen- 
tiles, yea,  even  upon  the  face  of  this 
land;  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  22:7.) 

Lehi,  the  father  of  Nephi,  and  him- 
self a  prophet,  speaking  to  his  descend- 
ants and  followers,  declared  that  the 
land  of  America  is  a  land  of  promise, 
choice  above  all  other  lands. 

"Wherefore,  I,  Lehi,  prophesy  ac- 
cording to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit 
which  is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none 
come  into  this  land  save  they  shall  be 
brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated 
unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And  if 
it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  ac- 
cording to  the  commandments  which  he 
hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty 
unto  them;  wherefore,  they  shall  never 
be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it 
shall  be  because  of  iniquity;  for  if  in- 
iquity shall  abound  cursed  shall  be 
the  land  for  their  sakes,  but  unto  the 
righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever." 
(2  Nephi  1:6-7.  Italics  added.) 

Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  in  an 
inspirational  discourse  to  his  people, 
reaffirmed  the  Lord's  promises  to  the 
gentiles  upon  this  land.    He  declared: 

".  .  .  the  promises  of  the  Lord  are 
great  unto  the  Gentiles,  .  .  . 


".  . .  and  the  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed 
upon  the  land. 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who 
shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles. 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against 
all  other  nations."  (Ibid.,  10:9-12.) 

During  the  Savior's  visit  to  the 
Nephites  in  the  Americas  after  his 
resurrection  and  ascension  to  glory,  he, 
speaking  of  the  gentiles  upon  this  land, 
promised  that  he  would  pour  out  the 
Holy  Ghost  upon  the  gentiles,  "which 
blessing  upon  the  Gentiles  shall  make 
them  mighty  above  all.  .  .  ."  (3  Nephi 
20:27.  Italics  added.) 

When  God  confounded  the  language 
of  the  people  at  the  tower  of  Babel,  he 
separated  a  group  known  as  the 
Jaredites,  and  under  the  direction  of  a 
prophet,  led  them  to  the  land  of  the 
Americas.  He  revealed  to  this  ancient 
prophet: 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  cap- 
tivity, and  from  all  other  nations  under 
heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God 
of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  who 
hath  been  manifested  by  the  things 
which  we  have  written."  (Ether  2:12. 
Italics  added.) 

The  Lord  also  emphasized  to  this 
early  prophet  that  whatsoever  nation 
shall  possess  this  land  of  promise  shall 
serve  God  or  they  shall  be  swept  off 
when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall 
come  upon  them.  And  the  fulness  of 
his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when 
they  are  ripened  in  iniquity.  "This," 
said  the  prophet,  "is  an  everlasting  de- 
cree of  God."  (Ibid.,  2:8-10.) 

Thus,  from  ancient  American  proph- 
ets, we  learn  that  this  United  States 
of  America  was  established  by  God  for 
a  divine  purpose,  and  that  great  bless- 
ings, which  all  must  admit,  as  we  review 
the  history  of  this  nation,  have  so  far 
been  literally  fulfilled;  yet  the  fulfil- 
ment of  future  promise  of  blessings  is 
conditional  upon  the  continued  right- 
eousness of  its  people.  A  great  challenge 
is  presented  to  the  citizens  of  this  land 
if  God  is  to  be  on  our  side  and  give 
us  power  as  a  nation  to  overcome  our 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

enemies  and  not  be  brought  down  into 
captivity. 

This  nation  did  not  come  into  being 
by  chance.  God  declared  that  the  gen- 
tiles who  came  here  were  to  be  brought 
out  of  captivity  by  his  hand.  The 
prophecies  previously  quoted  concerning 
the  establishment  of  this  nation  have 
been  fulfilled  to  the  letter.  The  people 
coming  here  in  the  beginning  did  so  to 
find  religious  freedom.  Nevertheless, 
they  were  subjected  to  tyrannical  rule, 
unjust  demands,  and  no  representation. 
They  had  lost  the  opportunities,  the 
privileges,  the  religious  freedom  and 
liberty  which  impelled  them  to  settle 
in  this  new  land.  The  colonists  became 
an  aroused  group  because  of  oppression; 
therefore,  the  time  had  arrived  in  the 
economy  of  God  for  the  people  to 
break  off  the  yoke  of  domination  which 
subjected  them  to  these  unjust  and  in- 
tolerable conditions.  The  Lord,  know- 
ing beforehand  the  events  which  would 
set  the  pattern  for  independence,  raised 
up  strong  and  valiant  men  to  meet  this 
hour  of  crisis  and  challenge.  The 
Declaration  of  Independence  came  from 
a  determined  people.  The  successful 
Revolutionary  War  which  followed 
united  the  colonies;  and  the  gentile 
nation  of  destiny  and  of  divine  pur- 
pose, as  foretold  by  the  prophets,  was 
born.  A  Constitution  was  needed  to  set 
forth  the  purposes,  obligations,  and  the 
guide  lines  for  the  new  nation.  God 
was  prepared  and  ready  and  did  not 
neglect  this  newborn  nation  which  he 
had  ordained  to  be  established  thou- 
sands of  years  previously. 

I  now  turn  to  latter-day  scripture  to 
substantiate  this  statement,  which  reve- 
lations are  not  only  important  for 
Latter-day  Saints  to  know  and  under- 
stand, but  also  for  the  entire  citizenry 
of  this  favored  country.  The  Lord, 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
December  of  1833,  counseled  in  the 
midst  of  their  afflictions  that  "the  Saints 
should  continue  to  importune  for  re- 
dress, and  redemption,  by  the  hands 
of  those  who  are  placed  as  rulers  and 
are  in  authority  over  you — 

"According  to  the  laws  and  constitu- 
tion of  the  people,  which  I  have  suffered 
to  be  established,  and  should  be  main- 
tained for  the  rights  and  protection  of 


Third  Day 

all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy 
principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine 
and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  ac- 
cording to  the  moral  agency  which  I 
have  given  unto  him,  that  every  man 
may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins 
in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any 
man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to 
another. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised 
up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  re- 
deemed the  land  by  the  shedding  of 
blood."  (D&C  101:77-80.) 

God  gave  the  men  chosen  to  formu- 
late the  Constitution  the  inspiration  of 
heaven  to  guide  them.  It  becomes, 
therefore,  an  enduring  document  for 
this  nation.  It  is  not  the  prerogative  of 
man  to  change  its  basic  and  funda- 
mental principles  and  concepts. 

The  dynamic  statesman,  Daniel  Web- 
ster, in  his  last  public  address  before  the 
New  York  Historical  Society  in  1852, 
said: 

"Unborn  ages  and  visions  of  glory 
crowd  upon  my  soul,  the  realization  of 
all  which,  however,  is  in  the  hands 
and  good  pleasure  of  Almighty  God; 
but,  under  His  divine  blessing,  it  will 
be  dependent  on  the  character  and  the 
virtues  of  ourselves,  and  of  our  posterity. 

"And  let  me  say,  gentlemen,  that  if 
we  and  our  posterity  shall  be  true  to 
the  Christian  religion — if  we  and  they 
shall  live  always  in  the  fear  of  God, 
and  shall  respect  His  commandments — 
if  we  and  they  shall  maintain  just, 
moral  sentiments,  and  such  conscien- 
tious convictions  of  duty  as  shall  control 
the  heart  and  life — we  may  have  the 
highest  hopes  of  the  future  fortunes 
of  our  country,  and  if  we  maintain  those 
institutions  of  government  and  that 
political  union,  exceeding  all  praise 
as  much  as  it  exceeds  all  former  ex- 
amples of  political  associations,  we  may 
be  sure  of  one  thing — that,  while  our 
country  furnishes  materials  for  a  thou- 
sand masters  of  historic  art,  it  will 
afford  no  topic  for  a  Gibbon.  It  will 
have  no  decline  and  fall.  It  will  go 
on  prospering  and  to  prosper. 

"But  if  we  and  our  posterity  reject 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


113 


religious  instruction  and  authority,  vio- 
late the  rules  of  eternal  justice,  trifle 
with  the  injunctions  of  morality,  and 
recklessly  destroy  the  political  constitu- 
tion which  holds  us  together,  no  man 
can  tell  how  sudden  the  catastrophe 
may  overwhelm  us,  that  shall  bury  all 
our  glory  in  profound  obscurity." 

How  applicable  today  are  these 
splendid  sentiments  and  warnings  by 
this  valiant  statesman  and  patriot! 

When  God  established  the  nation  of 
Israel,  he  gave  them  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, written  on  tablets  of  stone  by 
his  own  finger.  Man,  through  the  cen- 
turies, has  not  altered  or  changed  the 
Ten  Commandments.  The  Constitution 
of  this  nation  was  not  written  on 
tablets  of  stone  like  unto  Israel,  but  wise 
men  were  raised  up  and  inspired  for 
the  important  task  of  writing  a  con- 
stitution of  government  which  guaran- 
teed the  God-given  rights  of  free  men. 

In  the  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith 
previously  quoted,  he  was  told  that  the 
Constitution  should  be  maintained  for 
the  rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh, 
according  to  just  and  holy  principles, 
that  it  is  not  right  for  man  to  be  in 
bondage  one  to  another.  It  guarantees 
what  God  has  always  bestowed  upon 
his  children — the  rights,  privileges,  and 
honor  of  a  free  people.  So  important  is 
this  latter-day  gentile  nation  established 
by  God  that  he  required  the  land  to  be 
redeemed  by  the  shedding  of  blood. 
The  blood  of  the  Revolutionary  patriots 
was  freely  spilled  upon  the  field  of  bat- 
tle to  insure  independence  and  to  re- 
deem the  land  and  make  it  sacred  to 
those  who  possessed  it.  When  the 
North  and  South  became  divided  over 
state  rights  which  included  slavery,  it 
was  most  important  in  the  plan  for  this 
nation  that  it  remain  united  and  strong. 
Only  by  so  doing  could  the  nation  ful- 
fil its  destiny  and  God's  purposes  and 
work.  The  Civil  War  resulted  in  the 
death  and  misery  of  many  souls,  and 
thus  for  the  second  time  the  land  was 
redeemed  by  the  shedding  of  blood. 

Truly,  God  rules  in  the  affairs  of 
men  and  nations.  This  nation  has  al- 
ways been  a  beacon  light  to  the  world, 
exemplifying  the  principles  of  democ- 
racy, freedom,  opportunity,  achievement, 


and  happiness.  It  now  wields  tremen- 
dous influence  and  power  in  the  affairs 
of  men  and  will  continue  to  do  so  ac- 
cording to  the  promise  of  God  as  long 
as  the  people  of  the  land  serve  the 
God  of  the  land  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Constitution  made  provision  for 
an  expanded  nation,  but  the  founding 
fathers  and  God  had  no  thought  of 
changing  or  altering  its  basic  princi- 
ples, rules,  and  concepts. 

President  Woodrow  Wilson  defined 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
as  "Not  being  a  mere  lawyer's  docu- 
ment. It  is,"  said  he,  "a  vehicle  of  life, 
and  its  spirit  is  always  the  spirit  of 
the  age.  The  explicitly  granted  powers 
of  the  Constitution  are  what  they  al- 
ways were;  but  the  powers  drawn  from 
it  by  implication  have  grown  and 
multiplied  beyond  all  expectation." 

To  interpret  this  valued  document 
understandingly,  we  need  to  remember 
the  conditions  and  circumstances  which 
confronted  the  founding  fathers,  who, 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
brought  this  wonderful  instrument  of 
government  into  being.  So  important 
was  God's  will  respecting  this  nation  as 
revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet, 
that  in  his  prayer  offered  at  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  he  included 
this  appeal  to  Almighty  God: 

"Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth;  have  mercy  upon 
the  rulers  of  our  land;  may  those  prin- 
ciples, which  were  so  honorably  and 
nobly  defended,  namely,  the  Constitu- 
tion of  our  land,  by  our  fathers,  be 
established  forever."  (D&C  109:54.) 

With  the  knowledge  of  God's  declara- 
tion that  the  Constitution  of  this  land 
is  inspired  of  him,  it  behooves  every 
citizen  to  analyze  the  meaning,  im- 
portance, and  significance  of  this  pro- 
found document  and  give  loyal  support 
to  its  spirit  and  purpose.  We  cannot 
afford  to  become  complacent,  forsake 
vigilance,  and  thus  lose  the  benefits  of 
the  Lord's  promise  of  blessings  upon 
the  people  of  this  goodly  land.  Also, 
we  must  see  to  it  that  the  principles,  the 
standards,  the  ideals,  the  rights,  the 
privileges,  and  the  protection  guaranteed 
by  the  Constitution  are  upheld  by  those 
who   represent   us   in   the  executive, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  October  6 

legislative,  and  judicial  branches  of 
government. 

A  wise  and  understanding  God  had 
all  this  in  mind  when  he  gave  the 
following  revelation  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  August  1833: 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which 
is  constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights 
and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind, 
and  is  justifiable  before  me. 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you, 
and  your  brethren  of  my  church,  in 
befriending  that  law  which  is  the  con- 
stitutional law  of  the  land; 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man, 
whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  this, 
cometh  of  evil. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free, 
therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and  the 
law  also  maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule 
the  people  mourn. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise 
men  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should 
observe  to  uphold;  otherwise  whatso- 
ever is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil." 
(Ibid.,  98:5-10.) 

If  wickedness  prevails  and  wicked 
men  rule,  then  we  will  be  as  other 
nations.  We  will  stand  alone  without 
the  guiding  influence  and  power  of  God 
to  sustain  us  in  time  of  trouble  and  in 
meeting  the  challenge  and  threat  of 
internal  and  external  Satanic  ideologies, 
also  the  evil  designs  and  intrigues  of 
men  and  nations. 

I  quote  from  a  talk  given  by  National 
Commander  James  E.  Powers  of  the 
American  Legion  which  appeared  in  the 
American  Legion  magazine  of  Septem- 
ber 1963: 

"America's  deepest  roots  are  spiritual. 
This  is  the  most  important  historical 
fact  of  American  life.  To  ignore  it  is 
to  miss  the  essence  of  the  heritage,  the 
character,  and  the  destiny  of  the  Ameri- 
can people.  Today,  with  international 
and  domestic  tension  tightening,  I  be- 
lieve it  is  well  that  we  see  clearly  the 
spiritual  core  of  that  creed.  .  .  .  The 
American  colonies  and  nation  were  es- 
tablished in  turn  by  men  and  women 


Third  Day 

who  acknowledged  openly  their  reliance 
upon  almighty  God." 

Continued  righteousness  and  depend- 
ence upon  God  therefor  are  the  only 
guarantees  we  have  for  the  constant 
enjoyment  of  his  blessings  upon  us, 
for  he  has  warned:  ".  .  .  my  law  shall 
be  kept  on  this  land."  (D&C  58:19.) 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
is  to  this  gentile  nation  what  the  Ten 
Commandments  were  and  still  are  to 
the  nation  of  Israel. 

What  a  strength  and  comfort  it  would 
be  to  the  people  of  this  land  for  God 
to  fight  for  this  nation  if  the  need 
arises  as  he  fought  for  Israel  during 
their  struggle  to  build  and  maintain  a 
nation.  However,  Israel's  persistence  in 
disobedience  and  wickedness  destroyed 
them  as  a  nation.  This  fact  stands  as  a 
warning  to  us.  What  happened  to  the 
nation  of  Israel  can  happen  to  this 
nation  also  if  we  as  a  people  in  this 
chosen  land  fail  to  obey  the  laws  and 
the  counsels  of  God.  It  will  be  profit- 
able to  all  of  us  in  the  light  of  the  prom- 
ises and  warnings  to  this  nation  to  read 
again  the  biblical  history  of  the  nation 
of  Israel.  It  will  help  us  avoid  the 
pitfalls  which  befell  them. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  we  shall  always 
stand  firm  and  stedfast  and  immovable 
in  upholding  and  sustaining  the  Con- 
stitution of  this  favored  land.  May  we 
also  selectively  and  wisely  choose  those 
who  are  equally  valiant  and  patriotic  to 
represent  us  in  the  top  echelons  of  gov- 
ernment— men  who  are  upright,  honest, 
and  willing  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  God  in  their  personal  lives. 

These  truths  and  considerations  I 
bear  humble  witness  and  testimony  to 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley,  who  recently  was  hos- 
pitalized. We  are  glad  he  is  able  to  be 
with  us  and  give  us  that  fine  discourse. 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
Elder  Christiansen  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


115 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
not  forgotten  the  statement  made  in  one 
of  the  recent  general  conferences  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  who  reminded 
us  that  to  know  is  not  enough.  As 
we  draw  near  to  the  close  of  this  great 
and  uplifting  conference,  it  seems  to 
me  that  the  thing  that  remains  is  for 
us  to  go  to  our  homes  and  conform  our 
lives  to  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  they  have  been  expounded 
here,  lacking  not  in  determination  and 
in  moral  courage  to  do  it,  for  "to  know 
is  not  enough." 

One  of  the  greatest  demonstrations  of 
moral  courage  ever  shown  in  this  day 
was  when  in  the  dead  of  winter,  1846, 
the  first  of  the  Saints,  living  in  the  city 
of  Nauvoo,  rolled  their  loaded  wagons 
onto  flatboats  to  be  ferried  across  the 
broad,  icy  Mississippi  River.  That 
marked  the  beginning  of  the  exodus  of 
modern  Israel.  Later  in  the  month, 
according  to  the  historians,  long  cara- 
vans crossed  the  river  on  a  solid  floor 
of  ice. 

These  people  had  been  living  in  sub- 
stantial and  comfortable  homes.  They 
had  farmed  their  fertile  lands;  they  had 
completed  the  construction  of  the  sacred 
Nauvoo  Temple  and  had  developed  an 
attractive  city,  which  they  proudly  re- 
ferred to  as  "Nauvoo  the  Beautiful."  All 
these  they  left  behind  to  move  their 
families,  with  what  household  goods 
and  provisions  that  they  could  take  with 
them,  to  make  an  almost  superhuman 
trek  thirteen  hundred  miles  into  an  al- 
most unknown  western  land. 

With  a  background  of  culture  and  re- 
finement, they  were  not  accustomed  to 
the  hardships  of  improvised  shelters 
erected  against  the  wintry  blasts  of 
February  winds;  yet,  because  of  their 
faith  and  their  courage,  they  resolutely 
met  the  challenge,  and  turning  their 
backs  upon  their  beautiful  homes  and 
their  faces  toward  the  west,  they  met 
whatever  was  to  come.  These  exiled 
people,  with  implicit  trust  in  their 
leaders,  chose  to  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteous- 
ness; .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:33.)    Their  physical 


courage  was  equaled  only  by  their 
moral  courage. 

In  our  day  there  is  a  crying  need  for 
this  same  quality  in  each  of  us,  espe- 
cially the  moral  courage  to  resist  the 
ever-increasing  pressures  and  insidious 
influences  that  are  constantly  at  work, 
distorting  the  truth,  tearing  down  the 
good  and  the  decent,  and  attempting  to 
substitute  therefor  the  vain  and  shallow 
philosophies  and  practices  of  a  carnal 
world.  There  is  need  for  the  moral 
courage  to  uphold  correct  principles  in 
our  personal  lives  and  to  defend  right 
and  truth  and  decency  and  honor,  and 
above  all,  to  have  faith  in  and  honor 
God  our  Father. 

It  seems  to  me  that  moral  courage  is 
made  of  a  firm  desire,  coupled  with  de- 
termination to  accept  and  to  do  what 
is  right  and  to  shun  the  wrong.  It  is 
the  outgrowth  of  moral  conviction.  Moral 
courage  may  not  be  dramatically  dis- 
played. Seldom  does  it  receive  public 
acclaim,  nevertheless,  it  is  an  indis- 
pensable attribute  of  noble  character. 
It  must  be  exercised  if  worthwhile 
principles  and  institutions  are  to  be 
preserved  and  perpetuated. 

He  who  stands  stedfastly  for  that 
which  is  right  must  take  the  risk  of 
becoming  at  times  disapproved  and  un- 
popular, or  even  shunned  by  others — 
sometimes  by  his  closest  friends.  In- 
deed, some  have  become  martyrs.  Know- 
ing what  is  right  and  true  and 
honorable,  they  have  had  the  courage 
to  do,  not  what  is  easy  but  what  is 
right;  not  what  is  expedient  but  what 
is  best. 

I  think  of  a  young  boy  with  whom 
I  am  acquainted,  who,  rather  than  join 
his  companions  one  night  in  an  esca- 
pade that  was  not  in  harmony  with  the 
training  he  had  received  in  his  home 
and  in  the  Church,  chose  to  walk  more 
than  six  miles  to  his  home  while  his 
companions  in  the  car  proceeded  to 
carry  out  their  plans.  I  imagine  that 
boy,  for  more  reasons  than  one,  slept 
well  when  he  finally  arrived  at  home. 
And  no  doubt  his  parents  were  proud 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  6 

of  him.  Truly,  "A  wise  son  maketh  a 
glad  father."  (Prov.  10:1.) 

It  requires  no  moral  courage  to  drift 
with  the  multitude  or  to  run  with  the 
"pack,"  so  to  speak.  The  real  test  is  in 
choosing  and  pursuing  the  right,  even 
though  it  appears  that  in  so  doing,  one 
is  alone. 

Jesus,  the  personification  of  this  qual- 
ity, disagreed  with  the  powerful  and 
influential  Jewish  governing  body — the 
Sanhedrin.  He  referred  to  certain  un- 
righteous Pharisees  as  ".  .  .  hypocrites! 
for  ye  are  like  unto  whited  sepulchres, 
which  indeed  appear  beautiful  outward, 
but  are  within  full  of  dead  men's  bones, 
.  .  ."  (Matt.  23:27.) 

And  Matthew  records  him  saying 
plainly,  ".  .  .  for  ye  devour  widows' 
houses,  and  for  a  pretence  make  long 
prayer:  therefore  ye  shall  receive  the 
greater  damnation."  (Ibid.,  23:14.) 

With  righteous  fervor  he  drove  out 
the  money  changers,  because  he  could 
not  bear  to  see  them  desecrate  the 
temple.  He  was  fearless  in  defense  of 
correct  principles,  and  although  he  was 
falsely  and  maliciously  accused — even 
though  he  was  subjected  to  railings  and 
mockery  of  the  worst  kind — he  stood 
majestically  and  composed  before  Pilate 
and  again  before  Herod,  while  the 
howling  mob  cried,  "Crucify  him,  cru- 
cify him!"  (Luke  23:21.) 

He  was  not  concerned  with  his  own 
security  nor  with  the  indignities  he 
suffered  at  the  hands  of  foul  men.  His 
great  desire  was  to  do  the  will  of  the 
Father,  even  though  it  meant  his 
crucifixion. 

While  we  in  our  day  may  or  may  not 
be  called  upon  to  suffer  unduly  or  to 
test  our  moral  courage  in  the  great  issues 
of  the  world,  there  is,  nevertheless,  al- 
ways need  for  each  of  us  to  exercise 
self-discipline  and  moral  courage  in  our 
everyday  living. 

It  was  Lincoln  that  reminded  us  that, 
and  I  quote:  "We  must  return  to  ideal- 
ism— the  idealism  of  character  and 
truth;  of  integrity  in  private  and  public 
(affairs)  ...  no  people  can  ever  become 
greater  by  lowering  their  standards,  no 
society  was  ever  improved  by  adopting 
a  looser  morality." 

Someone  has  said  our  physical  fitness 
program  is  wonderful  and  is  needed,  but 


Third  Day 

we  have  also  a  need  in  our  lives  for 
a  moral  fitness  program.  It  takes  moral 
courage,  for  instance,  to  apologize,  to 
put  aside  pride  and  say,  "I  was  wrong," 
or  to  explain  a  misunderstanding  which, 
if  ignored,  would  hurt  another  person; 
or  to  defend  a  person  when  slighting  re- 
marks are  made  against  his  character. 
It  takes  courage  to  stand  up  and  be 
counted  when  you  may  not  agree  with 
the  crowd;  for  example,  to  plan,  and  to 
live,  and  to  qualify  to  go  to  the  house 
of  the  Lord  when  the  time  comes  to 
be  married  even  though  some  of  our 
associates  may  do  otherwise. 

It  requires  moral  courage  to  tell  the 
truth  regardless  of  the  situation  or  the 
consequences,  but  it  pays  great  dividends 
in  peace  of  mind. 

It  takes  courage  to  resist  envy  and 
hate  and  anger,  the  destroyers  of  happi- 
ness. The  Bible  says:  "He  that  is  slow 
to  anger  is  better  than  the  mighty;  and 
he  that  ruleth  his  spirit  than  he  that 
taketh  a  city."  (Prov.  16:32.) 

Have  we  the  moral  courage  to  forgive 
or  to  ask  forgiveness?  Never  is  the 
human  soul  more  noble  and  so  cour- 
ageous than  when  it  forgives  and  then 
forgets.  Jesus  said  in  a  revelation  to 
Joseph  Smith:  "Wherefore,  I  say  unto 
you,  that  ye  ought  to  forgive  one  an- 
other; for  he  that  forgiveth  not  his 
brother  his  trespasses  standeth  con- 
demned before  the  Lord;  for  there  re- 
maineth  in  him  the  greater  sin. 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 
forgive  all  men."  (D&C  64:9-10.) 

And  Matthew  records:  "For  if  ye  for- 
give men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly 
Father  will  also  forgive  you."  (Matt. 
6:14.) 

The  religious  life  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint  should  be  based  not  upon  obliga- 
tion and  duty  alone,  but  upon  a  genuine 
desire  to  be  honorable,  to  do  good,  to 
do  what  is  right,  to  love  God,  and  to 
love  one  another. 

We  ought  to  think  right  and  do  right 
simply  because  it  is  right.  If  there  is 
to  be  any  moral  perfection  for  us  in 
this  life,  it  will  come  because  we  con- 
sistently and  automatically  do  what 
is  right. 

I  bear  solemn  testimony  to  the  fact 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  God  our 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


117 


Father  lives,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in- 
deed the  Prophet  of  this  dispensation 
through  whom  the  gospel,  the  divine 
pattern  for  living,  was  restored,  and  that 
President  David  O.  McKay  is  presently 
the  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Let  us  go  from  here  with  the  deter- 
mination and  the  moral  courage  to  say 
as  Job  said,  ".  .  .  while  my  breath  is  in 
me,  .  .  . 

"My  lips  shall  not  speak  wickedness, 
nor  my  tongue  utter  deceit. 


".  .  .  till  I  die  I  will  not  remove  .  .  . 
integrity  from  me."  (Job  27:3-5.) 

I  pray  for  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve.  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  be 
our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Brethren  and  sisters: 

As  I  stand  before  you  today,  I  seek  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  that, 
perhaps,  I  may  say  something  that  may 
be  of  help  to  some  of  us. 

My  life  span  covers  nearly  sixty-two 
percent  of  the  lapsed  time  since  the 
Church  was  re-established  on  the  earth 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.  For  nearly 
forty  percent  of  my  life  I  have  had 
opportunity  to  observe  the  forward 
movement  of  the  Church  as  a  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 
Quite  naturally,  I  have  been  able  to 
check,  in  a  way,  the  responses  of  the 
priesthood  members  of  the  Church  to 
the  programs  instituted,  from  time  to 
time,  for  their  encouragement  and  aid. 
In  this  I  have  reached  a  conclusion  that 
what  we,  the  bearers  of  the  priesthood, 
most  need  is  faith. 

We  declare  in  the  Articles  of  Faith, 
"We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
and  in  His  Son,  Tesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
Holy  Ghost."  Also,  "We  believe  that 
the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel  are;  first,  Faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  second,  Repentance;  third, 
Baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins;  and  fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Articles 
1  and  4.) 

To  me  this  means  that  we  believe 
that  God  exists;  that  he  is  our  Eternal 
Father  and  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ; 
and  we  believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  We 
believe  also  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  took  upon  himself  mortal  life, 


accepted  death,  and  rose  from  death  to 
be  the  first  evidence  to  man  of  the 
resurrection — "the  first  fruits  of  the 
resurrection."  In  so  doing  he  overcame 
the  effects  of  Adam's  act  which  intro- 
duced mortality  into  the  world.  It  was 
then  possible,  through  death  and  the 
resurrection,  for  man  to  re-enter  the 
presence  of  God  in  an  exalted  estate. 

That  man  might  be  exalted,  a  plan 
of  life  was  given  him,  and  this  we 
call  the  gospel. 

Recurring  to  the  fourth  Article  of 
Faith  we  learn  that  the  first  principle 
of  this  plan  is  that  man  should  have 
faith  in  God  and  in  our  Redeemer 
Jesus  Christ. 

Faith  is  defined  in  one  biblical  pas- 
sage as  follows:  ".  .  .  faith  is  the  sub- 
stance of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence 
of  things  not  seen."  (Heb.  11:2.)  Faith 
gives  our  yearnings  substance  and  evi- 
dences to  us  the  possibility  of  actual 
accomplishment.  With  this  possibility 
before  us,  we  undertake  things  new  to 
us,  gaining  strength  and  courage,  both 
physical  and  spiritual.  In  other  words, 
faith  in  its  broadest  sense  prompts  every 
act  of  our  lives.  We  increase  faith  in 
ourselves  by  the  exercise  of  our  facul- 
ties; we  gain  faith  in  our  neighbors 
when  our  mutual  interchanges  accord 
with  the  gospel  plan.  We  gain  faith  in 
the  gospel  plan — which  means  faith  in 
God — by  doing  the  various  things  re- 
quired by  it,  and  this  means  service. 
The  only  way  I  have  discovered  to  serve 
God  is  to  help  his  work  along  among 
his  children.     As  we  serve,  we  gain 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


118 

Sunday,  October  6 

greater  power  of  understanding  and  ap- 
preciation. Man  is  that  he  may  have 
joy,  and  the  greatest  joy  I  have  experi- 
enced has  come  through  serving  others. 

Service,  then,  becomes  a  measuring 
stick  for  faith.  If  men  serve  faithfully 
and  willingly,  it  is  an  indication  of 
faith. 

If  we  apply  this  measure  to  the 
service  of  the  many  men  who  hold  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  we  discover  that 
too  many  of  us  fail  to  measure  to  a 
high  standard  of  service.  Shall  we  call 
it  a  lack  of  faith? 

I  like  to  believe,  and  this  comes  from 
my  experience  and  observation,  that 
many  men  fail  in  their  interest  in  the 
work  of  the  priesthood  from  lack  of 
responsible  opportunity  and  application. 
How  can  a  man  enjoy  doing  a  thing  in 
which  he  is  not  experienced  and 
familiar? 

The  program  of  the  Church  is  suffi- 
ciently broad  to  offer  opportunity  for 
most  men  to  serve  in  some  interesting 
capacity — this  must  be  in  a  friendly 
atmosphere,  for  most  people  respond 
to  friendship. 

The  purpose  of  the  program  awaiting 
initiation  at  the  beginning  of  the  new 
year  is  to  surround  these  inactive 
brethren  and  sisters  with  an  atmosphere 
of  friendship  and  sincere  interest,  find- 
ing opportunity  for  attractive  and  friend- 
ly fellowship  and  service. 

There  is  in  the  Church  a  veritable 
army  of  men  who  hold  only  the  Aaron  ic 
Priesthood,  hold  no  priesthood  at  all, 
or  who,  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, fail  to  honor  it  by  active  service. 
Many  of  these  men  are  burdened  with, 
and  struggle  to  overcome,  habits  which 
make  them  feel  out  of  harmony  with 
the  program  of  the  Church.  When  this 
may  be  the  case,  we  should  give  them 
every  possible  aid  in  their  struggle. 
There  are  few  things  more  powerful 
than  habits.  When  they  are  good, 
they  become  a  great  safeguard;  when 
they  are  not,  they  reduce  their  capacity 
according  to  the  seriousness  of  the  afflic- 
tion. Our  problem  is  to  aid  with  as 
little  embarrassment  as  possible.  Many 
men  of  my  acquaintance  have  made 
this  battle  with  themselves  success- 
fully and  attained  to  greater  happiness. 
Changing  from  a  life  of  inactivity  in 


Third  Day 

the  Church,  or  even  opposition  to  the 
teachings  and  program  of  the  Church, 
implies  the  need  of  repentance.  It  need 
not  be  offensive  to  suggest  to  a  person 
that  he  change  his  ways  to  be  more 
happy.  That  is  what  repentance  means: 
a  Godly  sorrow  for  acts,  improper  or 
even  just  not  wisely  performed,  and  a 
change  to  a  life  filled  with  proper 
and  correctly  performed  activities.  This 
not  only  results  in  one's  contentment 
and  happiness  but  increases  his  inter- 
est in  others  and  his  service  in  their 
behalf.  This  change  brings  about  a 
closer  relationship  with  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  under  whose  influence  one 
corrects  his  private  life  and  his  social 
relationships.  Why  should  it  be  offen- 
sive to  a  person  to  be  told  that  if  he 
will,  of  his  own  volition,  prove  victor 
over  his  unfortunate  habits,  he  will 
be  happier  and  more  useful? 

This,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  one  of 
our  major  problems.  Salvation  is  the 
objective  of  the  Church.  May  God  help 
us  to  realize  this  purpose. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing  "How  Firm  a  Foundation."  Brother 
Jay  E.  Welch  will  lead  us.  Following 
this  singing  we  shall  hear  from  Sister 
Annette  Richardson  Dinwcodey.  She 
will  sing  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Liveth^  

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congre- 
gation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"How  Firm  A  Foundation,"  Elder  Jay 
E.  Welch,  Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir 
conductor,  directing.  Sister  Annette 
Richardson  Dinwoodey  then  sang  a 
solo,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Liveth." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Sister  Dinwoodey.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Victor  L. 
Brown  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen. 


119 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  believe  I  have  a  clearer  meaning  of 
what  it  means  "o  endure  to  the  end 
than  I  did  earlier.  [Laughter.] 

Michael  is  now  sixteen  years  of  age. 
His  parents  were  members  of  the  Piute 
Indian  tribe.  Michael  was  born  with- 
out his  eyesight.  On  the  Indian  reserva- 
tion, this  was  considered  a  terrible 
handicap.  His  family  was  very  poor, 
and  a  blind  boy  was  more  than  they 
could  cope  with.  So,  when  Michael 
was  about  seven  years  old,  he  was  left 
on  the  desert  to  die.  Fortunately,  some 
passing  tourists  found  him  and  took 
him  to  a  hospital.  It  took  a  year  for 
the  doctors  and  nurses  to  save  his  life 
and  restore  his  health. 

During  this  experience  of  being  left 
on  the  desert  all  alone  without  food 
and  water,  unable  to  see,  Michael's 
basic  animal  instincts  for  survival  be- 
came so  strong  that  he  almost  became 
an  animal,  fearing  and  hating  every- 
body and  everything.  Eight  years  later, 
when  I  first  met  him,  he  told  me  he 
could  remember  the  horror  of  being  all 
alone — hungry,  thirsty,  and  lost. 

When  he  became  well  enough, 
Michael  was  sent  to  school.  He  was 
incorrigible.  Because  of  his  tragic  ex- 
perience, he  destroyed  everything  he 
could  get  his  hands  on — paper,  pencils, 
record  player.  Everything  was  his 
enemy.  I  suppose  the  school  authorities 
despaired  of  ever  reaching  this  boy.  One 
day,  they  placed  a  call  to  a  wonderful 
Latter-day  Saint  woman  and  asked  her 
if  she  would  mind  taking  an  Indian  boy 
into  her  home.   She  readily  agreed. 

Michael's  nature  had  not  changed.  He 
still  considered  everyone  his  enemy. 
He  continued  to  destroy  almost  every- 
thing that  came  in  his  way.  One  day 
one  of  the  neighbor  boys,  a  white  boy 
by  the  name  of  Richard,  became  ac- 
quainted with  Michael.  Richard  was 
about  fifteen  years  old.  He  was  a 
teacher  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  He 
took  an  interest  in  Michael  and  fast  be- 
came his  friend. 

Richard  came  to  the  Presiding  Bish- 
opric's Office  one  day  and  asked  about 


the  cost  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in 
Braille.  He  had  been  saving  his  money 
for  a  long  time  so  that  he  might  pur- 
chase a  Book  of  Mormon  in  Braille  as 
a  birthday  present  for  his  blind  Indian 
buddy.  The  cost  was  more  than  Rich- 
ard had  saved.  However,  a  kind  person 
made  it  possible  for  him  to  obtain  the 
book.  As  Michael  read  with  his  fingers, 
Richard  followed  along  in  his  own 
Book  of  Mormon  reading  out  loud,  thus 
helping  Michael  over  the  more  difficult 
words.  As  I  visited  with  Michael,  he 
said  he  had  never  read  such  wonderful 
stories.  He  said  that  everything  he 
had  read  in  the  past  was  kid  stuff,  but 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  different.  I 
asked  him  what  the  greatest  desire  of 
his  heart  was.  This  fifteen-year-old 
Indian  boy  replied:  "To  become  sixteen 
years  old  so  I  can  be  baptized  a  mem- 
ber of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints."  He  explained  that 
he  must  wait  until  his  sixteenth  birth- 
day because  of  the  requirement  of  the 
agency  responsible  for  him. 

Michael  had  his  sixteenth  birthday 
just  this  August  and  was  baptized  by  his 
buddy,  Richard,  who  is  now  a  priest. 
Just  four  weeks  ago,  Michael  was  or- 
dained a  deacon  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood by  his  foster  father. 

Michael  told  his  mother  that  as  he 
was  being  confirmed  a  member  of  the 
Church,  the  brightest  feeling  went 
through  his  entire  body.  He  said,  "I 
know  now  what  'white'  looks  like."  This 
sixteen-year-old  Indian  boy  who  has 
never  seen  the  light  of  day  now  knows 
what  "white"  looks  like.  The  Holy 
Ghost  has  borne  witness  to  him. 

This  last  school  year,  Michael,  the 
boy  who  was  incorrigible,  was  honored 
for  his  excellence  in  school  effort — ex- 
cellence in  deportment,  scholarship,  and 
progress — the  only  boy  so  honored  by 
his  school  this  year.  He  hopes  someday 
to  teach  other  blind  children  as  he  has 
been  taught. 

Bill  is  now  fifteen.  His  parents  are 
Navajo.  When  Bill  was  a  child,  he 
was  stricken  with  polio,  which  left  him 


120 

Sunday,  October  6 

without  the  use  of  his  legs.  Bill  and 
Michael  are  brothers  in  this  foster 
home.  They  are  both  Boy  Scouts.  A 
year  ago,  they  needed  money  to  go  to 
Scout  camp,  so  they  decided  to  sell 
toothbrushes  and  toothpaste.  They 
didn't  have  much  luck  in  their  own 
neighborhood,  so  Michael  pushed  Bill 
in  his  wheelchair  seven  miles  to  another 
community  where  they  had  some  suc- 
cess. They  said  that  the  most  interest- 
ing and  funniest  experience  of  the  day 
was  when  they  sold  a  toothbrush  and 
some  toothpaste  to  a  man  who  didn't 
have  any  teeth. 

Three  weeks  ago  at  a  stake  quarterly 
conference,  I  invited  Bill  to  come  to 
the  front  of  the  chapel  and  bear  his 
testimony  to  over  twelve  hundred 
people.  I  wish  you  could  have  seen 
this  fifteen-year-old  Navajo  Indian  boy. 
Immaculate  in  his  appearance  and  with 
all  the  dignity  and  majesty  of  a  great 
chief,  he  sat  in  his  wheelchair  and 
humbly  expressed  his  gratitude  to  his 
Heavenly  Father  for  his  many  bless- 
ings, for  his  parents,  his  brothers  and 
sisters,  his  membership  in  the  Church 
and  the  blessing  of  holding  the  office 
of  teacher  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
Bill  is  a  fine  artist  and  hopes  someday 
to  become  a  great  architect. 

Bill  and  Michael  have  two  lovely, 
blond,  fair-skinned  sisters  and  a  baby 
brother,  Ronnie.  Let  me  tell  you  about 
Ronnie.  As  far  as  we  know,  he  is  also 
a  Navajo  Indian  boy.  When  the  agency 
called  this  same  good  mother  and  asked 
if  she  would  take  a  three-year-old  In- 
dian baby  into  her  home,  they  said  that 
the  child  was  totally  incapacitated.  He 
could  not  walk;  he  could  not  talk.  They 
explained  the  outlook  for  him  as  almost 
hopeless.  Notwithstanding  this,  she 
accepted  him  into  her  home.  When  I 
met  Ronnie  the  other  day,  he  had  a 
mischievous  twinkle  in  his  eye  and  a 
smile  on  his  face  as  he  ran  and  tried 
to  escape  from  one  of  his  sisters — as 
normal  a  four-year-old  as  I  have  ever 
seen. 

A  blind  boy,  a  crippled  boy,  a  child 
who  was  a  complete  invalid — each  one 
destined  to  a  life  of  misery  and  hopeless- 
ness, but  for  the  love,  compassion,  char- 
ity, and  understanding  of  a  wonderful 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

woman — a  woman  who  had  the  support 
of  a  good  and  faithful  husband — a 
woman  who  wanted  children  more  than 
anything  else  in  the  world  and  who  was 
not  blessed  with  any  of  her  own.  She 
wanted  them  so  badly  it  didn't  matter 
what  their  handicaps  nor  that  their 
skin  was  copper  color.  The  love  she 
gave  them  was  the  love  she  had  missed 
so  desperately  during  her  childhood. 
The  compassion  she  blessed  these  chil- 
dren with  was  the  compassion  she 
longed  for  and  sought  but  failed  to 
find  as  she  was  growing  up.  To  me  she 
typifies  the  saint  as  described  by  Felix 
Adler  as  he  makes  the  distinction  be- 
tween a  hero  and  a  saint.  Paraphrasing 
this  statement: 

"The  hero  (heroine)  is  one  who 
kindles  a  great  light  in  the  world,  who 
sets  up  blazing  torches  in  the  dark 
streets  of  life  for  men  to  see  by.  The 
saint  is  the  man  (woman)  who  walks 
through  the  dark  paths  of  the  world, 
himself  (herself)  a  'light.'  " 

I  suppose  that  most  of  the  teachings 
of  the  Master  can  be  gleaned  from  the 
lives  of  this  family,  also  from  Richard, 
the  white  boy,  a  priest  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  impervious  to  the  taunts  of 
the  other  boys  as  he  held  Michael's 
hand  while  they  walked  down  the 
streets,  a  boy  who  so  loved  the  Lord 
that  he  wanted  to  share  the  gospel  with 
his  friend.  What  a  wonderful  exam- 
ple of  living  the  first  two  great  com- 
mandments as  found  in  the  twelfth 
chapter  of  Mark,  verses  thirty  and 
thirty-one: 

"And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and 
with  all  thy  strength:  this  is  the  first 
comandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like,  namely,  this, 
Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thy- 
self. There  is  none  other  commandment 
greater  than  these." 

There  is  such  a  desperate  need  in 
the  world  today  for  this  kind  of  love, 
for  each  mother  to  want  her  children, 
to  want  them  so  badly  that  her  love 
transcends  all  else.  A  mother's  love  is 
one  of  the  basic  instincts  God  has  im- 
planted in  a  woman's  heart.  It  is  so 
basic  that  it  exists  in  all  animals  that 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


121 


bear  offspring,  and  yet  there  are  those 
who  fail  to  use  this  love  wisely. 

From  studies  made  by  social  workers, 
they  find  that  when  children  get  into 
trouble  it  is  altogether  too  often  because: 

1.  Mother's  social  status  is  reflected 
through  her  child. 

2.  Mothers  push  their  children  into 
mature  social  experiences  far  beyond 
their  age. 

3.  There  is  a  feeling  on  the  part  of 
parents  of  getting  the  child  out  of  the 
home  so  they  can  have  more  freedom, 
so  they  can  be  to  themselves,  and  so 
they  can  travel  and  not  be  hampered 
by  having  children  in  the  home. 

4.  All  too  often  the  child  is  not 
taught  dependability  and  self-reliance. 
He  is  left  on  his  own. 

5.  Another  major  contributing  factor 
is  that  the  parents  are  not  home  enough. 

Mothers,  you  most  of  all  have  the 
destiny  of  this  generation  in  your  hands. 
Surely,  we  fathers  have  a  part  as  do 
we  leaders  of  youth,  but  nothing  we 
can  do  will  compare  with  a  mother's 
love  if  it  is  wisely  placed. 

Now,  may  I  just  mention  a  group 
of  mothers.  I  think  there  are  about 
four  thousand  of  them.  These  mothers 
have  a  special  place  in  my  heart.  They 
are  the  mothers  whose  husbands  are 
bishops  in  this  great  Church.  The 
other  day  a  lovely  young  mother,  the 
wife  of  a  bishop,  wrote  me  a  sweet 
letter.  She  expressed,  among  other 
things,  a  need  for  encouragement  so  she 
would  always  be  an  inspiration  to  her 


husband,  so  that  she  would  have  the 
strength  to  suppress  the  normal  feelings 
of  loneliness  and  discouragement,  of 
being  left  alone  so  much  of  the  time, 
of  having  to  shoulder  a  great  share  of 
the  responsibility  of  rearing  her  chil- 
dren than  would  otherwise  be  the  case, 
and  of  being  the  last  one  to  know  what 
is  going  on  in  the  ward.  I  suppose  this 
runs  contrary  to  the  basic  nature  of 
most  women. 

We  want  you  to  know  that  you  are 
not  forgotten  for  a  moment.  We  meet 
your  husbands  more  often  than  we  do 
you,  and  perhaps  we  talk  about  them 
more.  We  want  you  to  know  that  we 
are  fully  aware  that  behind  every  good 
bishop  in  this  Church  is  a  good  woman, 
a  woman  who,  through  sharing  her 
strength,  is  instrumental  in  making  a 
good  man. 

May  God  bless  all  good  women 
everywhere  that  their  love  may  bless 
mankind,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Bishop  Vic- 
tor L.  Brown,  a  member  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  President  of  the  West 
European  Mission,  who  has  just  recently 
left  the  sick  bed,  but  we  are  glad  he  is 
able  to  say  a  few  words  to  us  before  he 
goes  back  to  Great  Britain. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  is  always  so  gracious 
and  so  wonderful.  I  love  him  with  all 
my  heart,  as  you  do,  and  with  all  my 
soul  I  sustain  him  as  our  great  prophet 
leader.  I  am  grateful  for  his  courtesy 
at  this  time. 

I  have  been  greatly  stirred  by  this  con- 
ference. I  have  been  stirred  more  than 
normally,  I  suppose,  because  of  the 
experiences  my  wife  and  I  have  had  in 
the  last  eight  or  nine  months.  I  now 
see  the  Church  in  a  new  perspective.  I 
am  a  different  man  from  what  I  was  a 


year  ago.  I  am  a  different  kind  of 
Latter-day  Saint.  I  have  come  to  realize 
that  the  great  mission  of  this  Church 
is  that  which  President  McKay  has 
taught  us  so  often  in  our  council  meet- 
ings— that  we  must  bear  testimony  to 
the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

It  has  taken  me  eight  months  now  to 
realize  how  far  the  world  has  drifted 
away  from  belief  in  the  Savior.  It  has 
taken  newspaper  articles  and  books  and 
sermons,  all  from  clergymen  of  various 
faiths,  in  which  they  deny  the  existence 


122  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  6 

of  God,  in  which  they  declare  they 
no  longer  believe  in  the  divinity  of  the 
Savior,  in  which  they  say  they  do  not 
believe  the  Bible  is  the  word  of  God 
any  more. 

It  has  taken  newspaper  articles  tell- 
ing of  the  iniquities  of  the  world,  the 
sins,  the  diseases  from  the  sins  that  have 
come  upon  the  people  of  the  world,  to 
make  me  realize  how  far  the  world  has 
drifted  away.  And  it  has  taken  all  of 
this  to  make  me  realize  that  there  is 
only  one  cure  for  the  world.  It  is  not 
in  political  parties.  It  is  not  in  the 
philosophies  of  men.  There  is  only  one 
cure  for  the  evils  of  this  world,  and  for 
the  broken  hearts  of  men  and  women, 
and  that  is  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  living  of  that  faith  by  obedience 
to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  our 
God.  There  is  nothing  that  can  compare 
with  it.  There  is  no  other  answer.  It  is 
obedience  to  Christ,  or  it  is  dissolution. 

Now,  as  I  have  been  stirred  by  these 
remarkable  addresses  that  we  have  lis- 
tened to,  and  as  I  have  looked  about 
over  this  great  audience,  I  have  come  to 
realize  more  and  more  that  there  is  only 
one  voice  in  all  the  world  that  can  bear 
testimony  to  these  groping  nations  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  mean  only  one 
voice  of  authority,  and  that  is  the  voice 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  the 
only  authoritative  voice  declaring  to  the 
world  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 

We  know  that  God  lives  because  our 
prophets  have  seen  him  and  talked  with 
him.  We  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
because  our  prophets  have  communed 
with  him,  and  we  know  that  he  lives 
because  of  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  burns  within  us. 

We,  therefore,  as  a  united  people 
must  declare  to  all  mankind  that  he 
lives  and  that  he  is  a  power  in  the 
world  and  that  he  is  our  only  salvation 
from  the  destruction  that  is  sure  to 
come  upon  this  evil  world  unless  they 
repent.  We  must  raise  the  voice  of 
testimony.  We  must  raise  the  voice 
of  repentance. 


Third  Day 

But  how  strong  a  voice  can  you 
raise?  How  strong  a  testimony  can  you 
bear?  Your  testimony  is  no  stronger 
than  your  obedience.  I  wonder  how 
much  your  testimony  has  been  watered 
down  by  your  disobedience  even  in  lit- 
tle things  here  or  there.  But  God 
expects  that  you  will  bear  a  mighty 
testimony  to  the  world  that  he  lives, 
that  he  has  spoken  in  our  day,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  destruction 
will  come  upon  the  world  unless  we 
obey  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

How  strong  is  your  testimony?  I  would 
have  you  know  that  your  words  alone 
are  not  enough.  I  would  have  you  know 
that  it  is  only  your  word  supported  by 
your  righteous  lives  that  can  give  testi- 
mony to  the  world  in  such  sincere  tones 
that  men  and  women  will  pay  atten- 
tion to  you. 

Oh,  how  I  admire  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  who  are  traveling  through  the 
countries  of  Europe  as  well  as  the  rest 
of  the  world,  humbly  bearing  testimony 
of  this  great  truth.  How  sincere  they 
are!  How  many  of  our  converts  say, 
"The  thing  that  impressed  me  was  the 
sincerity  of  the  missionaries,"  and  that 
is  the  thing  that  is  going  to  impress  all 
the  world  from  you. 

So  my  brief  message  here  today  is, 
brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  live  the  gos- 
pel so  that  our  living  will  give  meaning 
to  our  words,  and  that  when  we  bear 
testimony  that  we  know  that  he  lives, 
that  they  will  feel  it  by  the  sincerity  of 
our  words  and  our  lives. 

I  bear  you  testimony  that  I  know  he 
lives,  and  I  am  raising  my  voice  as 
loudly  and  as  strongly  as  I  know  how 
to  declare  it  to  everyone  who  is  willing 
to  listen.  Jesus  lives.  He  is  the  Christ. 
He  is  the  Son  of  God.  He  is  the  Divine 
Redeemer.  He  is  the  Creator  of  the 
worlds,  and  if  we  will  but  follow  him, 
great  will  be  our  joy — salvation  in  this 
life  and  eternal  life  in  the  world 
to  come. 

This  testimony  I  bear  to  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


We  are  nearing  the  end  of  a  great  con-  I  should  just  like  to  say  a  word  now 
ference,  as  usual,  the  best  ever.  about  our  responsibility  to  carry  these 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


123 


great  messages  to  which  we  have  been 
listening  since  last  Friday  morning — 
carry  them  to  our  homes  and  not  let 
it  stop  when  we  say  "Amen"  this 
afternoon. 

We  are  told  that  God  so  loved  the 
world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten 
Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish  but  have  everlasting 
life.  Let  us,  therefore,  follow  our  Heav- 
enly Father's  example  and  bring  up  our 
own  sons  and  daughters  in  the  faith 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

There  is  a  greater  responsibility  rest- 
ing upon  us  now  than  perhaps  ever  be- 
fore in  the  history  of  this  country.  The 
testimony  to  which  we  have  just  lis- 
tened from  Brother  Petersen  is  reaching 
into  the  homes  of  millions  throughout 
the  world. 

Last  night  we  listened  to  two  young 
men  give  sermons  on  the  power  of  self- 
control.  I  am  sure  their  parents  are 
very  proud  of  them,  and  so  are  we  all. 
The  tens  of  thousands  of  men  holding 
the  priesthood  sat  silently  and  almost 
breathlessly  as  they  listened  to  the  ser- 
mons of  those  two  young  men.  I  hope 
all  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  will  have  the  same  pride  as  those 
parents  have  for  those  two  boys — that 
your  sons  will  bear  the  same  testimony 
and  accept  the  same  ideals  that  a  hun- 
dred thousand  whom  those  two  boys 
represented  last  night  have  in  their 
hearts  to  attain. 

There  comes  to  my  mind  now  a  poem 
about  a  father  who  paid  this  tribute 
to  his  son,  or  rather  felt  pride  in  his 
boy  and  the  responsibility  of  rearing 
him  as  these  hundred  thousand  boys 
last  night.  It  runs  something  like  this — 

"We've  never  seen  the  Father  here,  but 

we  have  known  the  Son, 
The  finest  type  of  manhood  since  the 

world  was  first  begun, 
And  summing  up  the  works  of  God,  I 

write  with  reverent  pen. 
The  greatest  is  the  Son  He  sent  to  cheer 

the  lives  of  men. 

"Through  Him  we  learned  the  ways  of 
God,  and  found  the  Father's  love; 

The  Son  it  was  who  won  us  back  to 
Him  who  reigns  above. 


The  Lord  did  not  come  down  Himself 

to  prove  to  men  His  worth, 
He  sought  our  worship  through  the 

Child  He  placed  upon  the  earth. 

"How  can  I  best  express  my  life?  Where- 
in does  greatness  lie? 

How  can  I  long  remembrance  win, 
since  I  am  bom  to  die? 

Both  fame  and  gold  are  selfish  things; 
their  charms  may  quickly  flee, 

But  Fm  the  father  of  a  boy  who  came 
to  speak  for  me. 

"In  him  lies  all  I  hope  to  be;  his  splen- 
dor shall  be  mine; 

I  shall  have  done  man's  greatest  work 
if  only  he  is  fine. 

If  some  day  he  shall  help  the  world 
long  after  I  am  dead, 

In  all  that  men  shall  say  of  him  my 
praises  shall  be  said. 

"It  matters  not  what  I  may  win  of 

fleeting  gold  or  fame, 
My  hope  of  joy  depends  alone  on  what 

my  boy  shall  claim. 
My  story  must  be  told  thru  him;  for 

him  I  work  and  plan, 
Man's  greatest  duty  is  to  be  the  father 

of  a  man." 

— Edgar  A.  Guest 
"Thoughts  of  a  Father" 

One  of  our  greatest  duties  as  we 
leave  this  great  conference  is  to  have 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel  in  our  homes. 
Fathers,  set  a  proper  example  to  your 
boys.  And  mothers,  teach  them  in 
accordance  with  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  faith  in  God,  repentance, 
and  baptism. 

One  man,  not  in  our  Church,  sug- 
gests this  to  his  son: 
"I  have  no  wealth  to  leave  you,  and  no 

fame. 

This  must  be  your  inheritance:  My 
name. 

It  has  not  been  my  fate,  in  life's  sharp 
struggles, 

To  win  the  honors  other  men  have  won. 

Mine  has  not  been  a  life  of  great 
achievements; 

I  have  not  done  the  deeds  some  men 
have  done. 

But  I  have  kept  unsullied  and  un- 
tarnished 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


124 

Sunday,  October  6 

That  thing — a  name — entrusted  to  my 
care; 

I  have  not  let  dishonor  dim  its  luster, 
Nor  have  I  let  shame  leave  its  black 

mark  there. 
I  have  not  let  my  name  be  classed  with 

malice 

Nor  fear,  nor  moral  cowardice,  nor 
greed, 

Nor  bigoted  intolerance  towards  others 
Nor  lack  of  charity  for  those  in  need. 
But  I  have  made,  instead,  my  name 

synonymous, 
In  all  men's  minds,  with  things  the 

most  worthwhile; 
With  strength  to  do  the  right,  though 

none  might  see  me; 
With  grit  to  meet  disaster  with  a  smile; 
With  loyalty  to  those  with  claims  upon 

me; 

With  justice  equally  toward  foe  and 
friend; 

With  honor,  truth,  integrity,  square- 
dealing, — 

'My  word  my  bond,' 
Now,  as  I  reach  the  end, 

Too  well  I  know  that  I  have  failed  in 
efforts 

Where  I  have  wanted  greatly  to  suc- 
ceed; 

Too  oft  I've  seen  my  dreams,  bright  in 

the  forming, 
Prove    naught   but   vain  imaginings, 

indeed. 

"But  this  I  do  believe;  when  I  have 
traveled 

Life's  twisting  road,  and  worked  out 

Life's  great  plan, — 
When  I  have  gone  beyond  Life's  praise 

or  blaming, 
It  will  be  said  of  me,  'He  was  a  man!' 
And  so,  because  of  this,  I  feel  no  shame, 
When  1  bequeath  to  you,  my  son,  my 

name." 

That  is  the  duty  of  every  father  in 
Israel — every  man  who  has  a  son  or 
daughter.  Let  us  make  our  homes 
places  in  which  the  Spirit  of  God  will 
be  pleased  to  dwell.  And  may  each 
boy  who  bears  his  father's  name,  live 
to  honor  it,  not  bring  disgrace  upon  a 
mother  who  loves  you  and  a  father  who 
has  given  you  a  name. 

This  has  been  a  great  conference, 


Third  Day 

great  messages  and  glorious  singing  have 
made  it  so.  The  responsibility  with  us 
now  is  to  carry  the  spirit  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  our  homes.  Do  not 
break  them  up  through  divorce.  Make 
good  your  promises  in  the  temple, 
hold  them  sacred  and  be  true  to 
every  covenant.  This  is  every  father's 
responsibility. 

Our  homes  are  the  seedbeds  of  faith 
in  Christ  our  Lord,  who  stands  at  the 
head,  and  who  is  God's  Beloved  Son.  In 
his  name  I  bless  the  members  of  the 
priesthood,  the  entire  membership  of 
the  Church  in  all  countries.  God's 
peace  and  happiness  be  with  you  in 
your  hearts  and  in  your  homes  every- 
where, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  been  blessed  with  marvelous 
singing  by  the  Choir,  and  I  have  said  so 
many  times,  "Thank  you,"  that  maybe 
you  are  getting  tired  of  it,  but  we  are 
not  tired  of  your  singing,  and  we  are  not 
tired  of  saying  "God  bless  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  for  your  excellent  singing 
here  in  the  Tabernacle  and  in  all  the 
world."  Thank  you,  and  God  bless  yon! 

On  the  evening  of  September  4,  1963, 
through  the  kindness  of  KSL,  whose 
representatives  had  placed  a  wire  exten- 
sion in  our  apartment  at  the  Hotel, 
Sister  McKay  and  I  listened  to  the  New 
York  Philharmonic  Orchestra  and  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  make  recordings  for 
a  new  album  of  Christmas  Carols.  We 
want  to  thank  those  who  were  kind 
enough  to  let  us  join  in  that  great 
testimonial.  We  sat  up  until  ten  o'clock 
listening  to  Mr.  Bernstein's  masterful 
conducting  of  the  375  singers  and  115 
musicians  in  rehearsing  and  recording 
the  16  Christmas  Carols.  We  were 
thrilled  with  what  we  heard. 

I  said  to  Sister  McKay  at  the  time 
that  I  thought  it  was  remarkable  how 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  cooperated  with 
Mr.  Bernstein  and  the  Orchestra  in  their 
work.  It  was  a  good  illustration  to  me 
of  what  this  Choir  will  do  to  furnish 
music  for  the  Church,  and  I  went  to 
bed  that  night  with  a  higher  apprecia- 
tion of  what  the  Tabernacle  Choir  is 
doing  for  the  Church  and  for  hundreds 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


125 


of  thousands  outside  of  the  Church  with 
their  beautiful  music.  I  felt  then  that 
Mr.  Bernstein  could  not  have  found 
another  body  of  singers  equal  to  our 
own  great  Tabernacle  Choir. 

We  express  our  thanks  and  apprecia- 
tion to  all  who  have  furnished  the  sing- 
ing throughout  this  Conference — first  to 
the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from 
the  Phoenix-Mesa  (Arizona)  area,  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting 
the  two  sessions  on  Friday;  second,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  under  Brother  Con- 
die  for  the  broadcast  session  Saturday 
morning;  to  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Chorale  with  Kurt  Weinzinger 
conducting,  who  furnished  the  music 
for  Saturday  afternoon.  The  men  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Brother 
Condie  conducting  who  furnished  the 
music  for  the  Saturday  evening  Priest- 
hood session;  and  again  today  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  with  Richard  P.  Condie 
and  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting. 

We  express  appreciation  and  gratitude 
to  all  who  have  in  any  way  contributed 
to  the  success  and  inspiration  of  this 
great  Conference.  We  appreciate  the 
attention  given  by  national  press  repre- 
sentatives, and  by  representatives  of 
radio  and  television  in  reporting  the 
sessions  of  this  Conference.  We  appre- 
ciate the  cooperation  of  City  officials, 
the  City  traffic  officers  handling  care- 
fully and  ably  the  increased  traffic;  the 
Fire  Department,  the  Red  Cross,  who 
have  been  on  hand  to  render  assistance 
and  service  whenever  and  wherever 
needed. 

We  are  also  grateful  for  what  our 
Tabernacle  ushers  do  in  rendering  quiet, 
efficient  service  in  seating  the  great 
audiences  at  this  Conference.  We  are 
most  grateful,  as  I  previously  mentioned, 
to  the  many  owners  and  managers  of 
radio  and  television  stations  throughout 
the  nation  and  our  own  City,  who  have 
carried  the  sessions  of  this  Conference 
from  Coast  to  Coast,  to  Alaska,  Hawaii, 
and  Canada,  and  by  short-wave  to  lis- 
teners in  over  100  countries  in  many 
parts  of  the  world.  This  extensive  radio 
and  television  coverage  has  given  this 
133rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  the  wid- 
est dissemination  in  the  history  of  the 
Church.  We  are  thankful  and  grateful 
to  the  Lord  that  millions  have  been 


given  the  opportunity  to  tune  in  on  the 
proceedings  of  this  General  Conference. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  7:00  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance, and  the  public  is  cordially 
invited. 

Ward  Sacrament  meetings  will  be 
held  this  evening  in  the  various  wards. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Blessed  Jesu,  Fount  of  Mercy."  The 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Ray  Engebretsen,  formerly  president  of 
the  Norwegian  Mission,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  for 
six  months. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Blessed 
Jesu,  Fount  Of  Mercy,"  following  which 
they  sang  in  conclusion,  "God  Be  With 
You  'Til  We  Meet  Again." 

Elder  Ray  Engebretsen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Norwegian  Mission, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Phoenix-Mesa  area  furnished 
the  music  for  the  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions  on  Friday.  Florence  Jep- 
person Madsen  conducted  the  singing 
of  these  sisters. 

The  musical  numbers  for  the  Satur- 
day morning  session  were  furnished  by 
the  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir, 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

At  the  Saturday  afternoon  meeting, 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorale, 
Kurt  Weinzinger  conductor,  presented 
the  musical  numbers. 

The  Men  of  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon 
Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  musical 
selections  for  the  General  Priesthood 
Meeting  Saturday  evening,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting. 

On  Sunday  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon 
Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music 
for  the  morning  and  afternoon  sessions, 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E. 
Welch,  Conductor  and  Assistant  Con- 
ductor respectively,  directing  the  singing. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle 
Choir  on  the  Church  of  the  Air  program 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  6  Third  Dai: 

and  also  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Taber- 

Organ  broadcast.  nacle  organist. 

Accompaniments  on  the  great  organ 
were  played  by  Alexander  Schreiner  and  Joseph  Anderson 

Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  organists,  Clerk  of  the  Conference 


127 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
7:35  a.m.  Sunday,  October  6,  1963.  The 
program  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is 
presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  repre- 
sentatives of  many  faiths  may  address 
a  nation-wide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  presented  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to 'you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  through  the  facilities 
of  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  Our  speaker  is  Elder  Gordon  B. 
Hinckley,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church.  Music 
is  by  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle 
Choir,  directed  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 

From  a  southern  hymn  tune,  Virgil 
Thompson  has  arranged  a  setting  for 
words  suggested  by  the  23rd  Psalm:  "My 


Shepherd  will  supply  my  need.  Jehovah 
is  his  name.  In  pastures  fresh  he  makes 
me  feed  beside  the  living  stream." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "My  Shepherd  Will 
Supply  My  Need." — Arr.  Thompson.) 

Announcer:  And  now  from  the  Salt 
Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  we 
hear  Charles  Gounod's  setting  for  a  text 
paraphrased  from  Psalm  137 — "Here  by 
Babylon's  Wave."  "Though  heathen 
hands  have  bound  us,  though  afar  from 
our  land,  the  pains  of  death  surround 
us;  Sion!  Thy  mem'ry  still  in  our  hearts 
we  are  keeping,  and  still  we  turn  to 
Thee,  our  eyes  all  sad  with  weeping." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "By  Babylon's 
Wave." — Gounod. ) 

Announcer:  We  hear  now  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  service  Elder  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley,  who  has  had  a  distin- 
guished career  in  Church  and  Civic 
Service,  and  who  is  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  frequently  referred  to  as  the  Mor- 
mon Church.  Today's  talk  is  titled: 
"Except  the  Lord  Build  the  House.  .  .  ." 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  I  speak  to  you  I  am  aware  that  I 
have  come  into  your  homes  as  your 
guest.  I  should  like  to  talk  with  you 
about  our  homes.  I  am  confident  that 
you  feel  some  concern,  as  do  I,  for  the 
homes  of  America. 

Recently  I  thumbed  through  the  sum- 
mary of  the  FBI  Uniform  Crime  Report 
for  1962.  In  a  few  words  and  with  a 
few  charts  it  told  a  disturbing  story — a 
six  percent  increase  in  serious  crimes 
in  the  period  of  a  single  year,  a  nine 
percent  increase  in  auto  thefts,  arrests 
of  young  people  under  18  up  nine  per- 
cent, with  female  arrests  increasing  at  a 
faster  rate  than  male  arrests.  The  ques- 
tion that  came  to  mind  immediately 
was  how  long  can  we  go  on  with  a 
nine  percent  increase  in  youth  arrests 
each  year? 

One  of  our  national  magazines  re- 
cently carried  these  words  on  the  cover: 


"Morality  U.S.A.  Do  we  need  a  new 
code  to  solve  our  crisis  of  immorality? 
Have  our  churches  failed?  Has  money 
become  God?  Is  sexual  morality  gone?" 
(Look,  September  24,  1963)  I  read  this 
provocative  article.  I  have  read  others 
of  similar  tone  written  by  men  of  gov- 
ernment, industry,  and  education  who 
have  expressed  themselves  with  deep 
concern  over  the  moral  crisis  that  evi- 
dently is  sweeping  across  the  land. 

I  am  not  one  to  believe  that  all  was 
good  in  the  long  ago,  and  that  all  is 
bad  today.  I  think  this  is  the  greatest 
age  the  world  has  known.  But  I  am 
also  confident  that  there  is  trouble  in 
the  land. 

The  article  referred  to  above  states: 
"We  are  witnessing  the  death  of  the 
old  morality  .  .  .  The  established  moral 
guidelines  have  been  yanked  from  our 
hands.   We  are  left  floundering  in  a 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


money-motivated,  sex-obsessed,  big  city 
dominated  society.  We  must  figure  out 
for  ourselves  how  to  apply  the  tradi- 
tional moral  principles  to  the  problems 
of  our  times.  Many  find  this  burden 
too  heavy."  (Idem,  p.  74.) 

I  should  like  to  add  that  many  of  our 
youth  will  not  and  cannot  figure  out  for 
themselves  how  to  apply  the  traditional 
moral  principles.  They  find  this  burden 
much  too  heavy.  They  must  have  help. 
They  must  have  guidance.  They  must 
have  example. 

Private  and  public  morality  are  rooted 
in  the  homes  of  the  people.  No  nation 
is  stronger  than  its  homes.  It  is  in  the 
home  that  examples  of  virtue  are 
best  caught  and  lessons  of  virtue  are 
best  taught. 

It  was  said  of  old,  "Except  the  Lord 
build  the  house,  they  labor  in  vain  that 
build  it."  (Psalm  127:1.) 

And  so  I  welcome  this  opportunity  to 
talk  with  you,  and  particularly  you 
parents  of  the  youth  of  America,  on  a 
theme  on  which  I  have  expressed  my- 
self previously,  and  one  which  I  feel 
is  timely. 

All  agree  that  we  need  a  new  empha- 
sis on  honesty,  character  and  integrity. 
All  agree  that  only  as  we  build  again 
into  the  fiber  of  our  lives  the  virtues 
which  are  the  essence  of  true  civilization 
will  the  pattern  of  our  times  change. 
The  question  that  confronts  us  is, 
Where  shall  we  begin? 

I  am  satisfied  that  it  must  begin  with 
recognition  of  God  as  our  Eternal 
Father,  of  our  relationship  to  Him  as 
His  children,  with  communication  with 
Him  in  recognition  of  His  sovereign 
position,  and  with  daily  supplication  for 
His  guidance  in  our  affairs. 

I  submit  that  a  return  to  the  old  pat- 
tern of  prayer,  family  prayer  in  the 
homes  of  the  people,  is  one  of  the 
simple  medicines  that  would  check 
the  dread  disease  that  is  eroding  the 
fiber  of  our  character.  We  could  not  ex- 
pect a  miracle  in  a  day,  but  in  a  genera- 
tion we  would  have  a  miracle. 

A  generation  or  two  ago  family  prayer 
in  the  homes  of  Christian  people 
throughout  the  world  was  as  much  a 
part  of  the  day's  activity  as  were  the 
meals.  As  that  practice  has  diminished, 
our  moral  decay  has  ensued.  I  fear  that 


as  the  quality  of  our  housing  has  im- 
proved, the  spirit  of  our  homes  has 
deteriorated. 

The  discipline  that  is  needed  in  our 
lives  is  the  discipline  that  comes  from 
within.  Many  are  crying  for  more 
legislation  and  stricter  law  enforcement. 
I  do  not  disparage  these  as  expedients, 
but  I  fear  they  are  only  expedients.  Vir- 
tue, integrity,  honesty  do  not  come  of 
imposition  from  without.  They  are  the 
fruits  of  good  teaching  and  good  exam- 
ple, and  that  teaching  and  that  example 
are  best  followed  when  they  are  found 
in  the  home. 

Paul  of  old  declared  to  Timothy: 
"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men 
shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  .  .  . 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  un- 
thankful, unholy,  without  natural  af- 
fection, .  .  .  despisers  of  those  that  are 
good,  traitors,  heady,  high-minded, 
lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of 
God."  (II  Timothy  3:1-4.) 

His  words  fit  in  a  remarkable  way  the 
conditions  described  in  the  magazine 
article  to  which  I  have  referred.  Simple 
as  it  may  sound,  I  think  daily  prayer 
in  the  homes  of  the  nation  would  in  a 
generation  lift  our  heads  above  the  flood 
that  evidently  is  engulfing  us. 

I  feel  satisfied  that  there  is  no  ade- 
quate substitute  for  the  morning  and 
evening  practice  of  kneeling  together 
before  the  Lord — father,  mother,  and 
children.  The  very  practice  of  kneeling 
together  with  thankful  hearts  evaporates 
some  of  those  qualities  described  by 
Paul:  "Disobedient  to  parents,  without 
natural  affection." 

There  is  something  in  the  very  pos- 
ture of  kneeling  that  contradicts  some 
of  the  attitudes  he  noted:  "Proud, 
heady,  highminded." 

The  inclination  to  be  unholy,  as  Paul 
described  it,  to  be  unthankful,  is  erased 
as  together  the  family  thank  the  Lord 
for  life  and  peace  and  all  they  have. 
And  as  they  thank  the  Lord  for  one 
another  there  is  developed  within  the 
family  a  new  appreciation,  a  new  re- 
spect, a  new  affection  one  for  another. 

I  know  of  nothing  that  will  ease  fam- 
ily tensions,  that  in  a  subtle  way  will 
bring  about  that  respect  for  parents 
which  leads  to  obedience,  that  will 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


129 


effect  a  spirit  of  repentance  which  will 
largely  erase  the  blight  of  broken  homes, 
than  will  praying  together,  verbally 
confessing  our  weaknesses  before  the 
Lord,  and  invoking  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  upon  the  home  and  those  who 
dwell  there. 

In  remembering  together  before  the 
Lord  the  poor,  the  needy,  and  the  op- 
pressed there  is  developed,  uncon- 
sciously but  realistically,  a  love  for 
others  above  self,  a  respect  for  others, 
a  desire  to  serve  the  needs  of  others. 

One  cannot  ask  God  to  help  a  neigh- 
bor in  distress,  without  feeling  moti- 
vated to  do  something  oneself.  What 
miracles  would  happen  in  the  lives  of 
the  children  of  America  if  they  would 
lay  aside  their  selfishness  and  lose 
themselves  in  the  service  of  others.  The 
seed  from  which  this  sheltering  and 
fruitful  tree  may  grow  is  best  planted 
and  nurtured  in  the  daily  supplications 
of  the  family. 

I  know  of  no  better  way  to  inculcate 
love  for  country  than  for  parents  to  pray 
before  their  children  for  the  land  in 
which  we  live,  invoking  the  blessings  of 
the  Almighty  upon  it  that  it  may  be 
preserved  in  liberty  and  in  peace.  I 
know  of  no  better  way  to  build  within 
the  hearts  of  our  children  a  much- 
needed  respect  for  authority  than  re- 
membering in  the  daily  supplications  of 
the  family  the  President  and  the  Con- 
gress and  others  who  carry  the  burdens 
of  government. 

On  the  route  I  travel  daily  is  a  sign- 
board which  reads:  "A  world  at  prayer 
is  a  world  at  peace."  You  have  seen 
others  like  it.  I  believe  it  speaks  a 
fundamental  truth.  I  am  satisfied  that 
we  shall  not  have  peace  unless  and 
until  we  request  it  in  the  name  of  the 
Prince  of  Peace  and  then  reform  our 
lives  to  be  worthy  of  it. 

The  hall  from  which  I  speak,  the 
great  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  was  con- 
structed by  a  people  who  loved  free- 
dom, who  worshipped  God,  and  who 
prayed  in  their  simple  pioneer  homes, 
as  did  most  of  the  pioneers  who  laid 
the  foundations  of  all  that  we  in  Amer- 
ica today  enjoy. 

In  1872  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane  of 
Philadelphia  visited  Utah  with  his  wife 


and  two  sons.  They  traveled  by  wagon 
some  three  hundred  miles  to  the  south- 
ern part  of  the  state,  stopping  each 
night  in  the  homes  of  the  people  in  the 
little  frontier  settlements  along  the  way. 
Mrs.  Kane  wrote  a  series  of  letters  to 
her  father  in  Philadelphia.  In  one  of 
them  she  said:  "At  every  one  of  the 
places  we  stayed  on  this  journey  we  had 
prayers  immediately  after  the  dinner- 
supper,  and  prayers  again  before  break- 
fast. No  one  was  excused  .  .  .  The  Mor- 
mons kneel  at  once,  while  the  head  of 
the  household,  or  an  honored  guest 
prays  aloud  .  .  .  They  spend  very  little 
time  in  ascriptions,  but  ask  for  what 
they  need,  and  thank  Him  for  what  He 
has  given  .  .  .  (They)  take  it  for  granted 
that  God  knows  our  familiar  names 
and  titles,  and  will  ask  a  blessing  on  (a 
particular  individual  by  name).  I  liked 
this  when  I  became  used  to  it." 

It  was  so  in  the  pioneer  homes  across 
the  land.  With  the  faith  that  came  of 
these  daily  invocations  these  people 
grubbed  the  sagebrush,  led  the  waters 
to  the  parched  soil,  made  the  desert 
blossom  as  the  rose,  governed  their 
families  in  love,  lived  in  peace  one  with 
another  and  with  the  world,  and  made 
their  names  immortal  as  they  lost  them- 
selves in  the  service  of  God. 

We  cannot  pray  in  our  public  schools, 
but  we  can  pray  in  our  homes,  and  in  so 
doing  we  shall  reweave  into  the  char- 
acter of  our  children  the  moral  strength 
which  will  become  the  fiber  of  a  better 
society.  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he 
may  be  found."  (Isaiah  55:6.) 

This  simple  practice,  a  return  to  fam- 
ily worship,  spreading  across  the  land 
and  over  the  earth,  would  in  a  genera- 
tion do  much  to  lift  the  blight  that  is 
destroying  us.  It  would  restore  integrity, 
mutual  respect,  and  a  spirit  of  thank- 
fulness in  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

We  do  not  need  a  new  moral  standard 
in  our  modern  society.  The  laws  of  God 
have  not  been  abrogated.  They  were  not 
given  to  one  generation  to  be  laid  aside 
by  another.  Their  disregard  can  result 
only  in  trouble,  misery,  and  insecurity 
as  witness  the  fruits  of  the  erosion  of 
morality  among  us.  Their  application 
is  the  way  of  life  and  peace  and  progress. 

And  so  to  you,  who  sit  in  your  homes 
in  this  great  land,  established  and  pre- 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


served  under  the  hand  of  the  Almighty, 
I  plead  for  a  return  to  recognition  of 
Him,  and  daily  supplication  to  Him. 
The  Master  declared,  "Ask,  and  it  shall 
be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find; 
knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 
(Matthew  7:7.) 

I  give  you  my  testimony  that  you 
shall  not  go  away  unrewarded.  The 
changes  may  not  be  readily  apparent. 
They  may  be  extremely  subtle.  But 
they  will  be  real,  for  "God  is  a  rewarder 
of  them  that  diligently  seek  Him." 
(Hebrews  11:6.) 

As  we  change  ourselves  and  our  chil- 
dren, developing  within  them  a  new 
respect,  a  spirit  of  gratitude,  a  becoming 
humility,  we  shall  reform  our  society. 

God  bless  us  with  the  faith  to  call 
upon  Him,  at  the  altar  of  our  homes,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lovely  Appear." 
Gounod.) 

Announcer:  With  the  music  of 
Charles  Gounod  we  have  heard  the 
Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir 
sing  these  words  taken  from  two  Old 
Testament  texts:  "Lovely  Appear  over 
the  mountains,  the  feet  of  them  that 
preach,  and  bring  good  news  of  peace. 
Ye  mountains,  ye  perpetual  hills,  bow 
ye  down.  Over  the  barren  wastes  shall 
flowers  now  have  possession." 


From  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Taber- 
nacle Choir  we  hear  a  hymn  of  solid, 
fervent  faith:  "How  firm  a  foundation, 
Ye  saints  of  the  Lord,  Is  laid  for  your 
faith  in  His  excellent  word!  What  more 
can  He  say  than  to  you  He  hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus,  for  refuge  have 
fled?" 

(The  Choir  sang:  "How  Firm  a 
Foundation." — Anon. ) 

Announcer:  In  closing  the  Salt  Lake 
Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  recalls  the 
words  of  John  Henry  Newman  and  the 
music  of  John  B.  Dykes:  "Lead,  kindly 
light,  amid  the  encircling  gloom;  Lead 
thou  me  on!  The  night  is  dark,  and  I 
am  far  from  home;  Keep  thou  my  feet; 
I  do  not  ask  to  see  The  distant  scene — 
one  step  enough  for  me." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lead,  Kindly 
Light."— Dykes.) 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
service  came  to  you  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Music  was  by  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon 
Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Richard 
P.  Condie. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  8:35  to 
9:00  a.m.  Sunday,  October  6,  1963, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was 
as  follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  The  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  sig- 
nal the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
Hymn,  "Gently  Raise  The  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end  of 
the  second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 


verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  Spoken  Word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

With  the  music  of  Charles  Gounod, 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  sings  first  a  sacred 
song  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  "O  Di- 
vine Redeemer." 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


131 


(The  Choir  sang:  "O  Divine  Re- 
deemer."— Gounod. ) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
Tabernacle  Organ  on  Temple  Square 
we  hear  a  melody  of  the  quiet  closing 
of  another  day  of  life:  "Evensong"  by 
Robert  Schumann. 

(Organ  selection:  "Evensong." — Schu- 
mann.) 

Announcer;  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
turns  now  to  a  Welsh  hymn  tune  by 
John  Hughes,  CWM  Rhonda,  with  the 
words  of  Robert  Robinson:  "Guide  Us, 
O  Thou  Great  Jehovah,  guide  us  to  the 
promised  land,  We  are  weak  but  Thou 
art  able,  hold  us  with  thy  pow'rful 
hand  .  .  .  When  the  earth  begins  to 
tremble,  bid  our  fearful  tho'ts  be  still; 
When  Thy  judgments  spread  destruc- 
tion, Keep  us  safe  on  Zion's  hill." 
(The  Choir  sang:  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou 
Great  Jehovah." — Hughes.) 

Announcer:  We  cite  once  more  these 
words  of  Winthrop  Aldrich:  "It  must  be 
the  aim  of  education  to  teach  the  citi- 
zen that  he  must  first  of  all  rule  him- 
self. .  .  .'n  This  question  of  self-control 
is  a  compelling  question,  and  includes 
control  of  thoughts,  of  appetites,  of  ac- 
tions; control  of  attitudes;  control  of 
what  we  do  with  time,  and  the  direction 
in  which  we  point  our  lives  into  eter- 
nity. There  is  a  significant  sentence 
from  John  Locke,  which  says:  ".  .  .  every 
man  must  sometime  or  other  be  trusted 
to  himself."2  When  God  gave  us  our 
free  agency,  we  were  in  a  sense  trusted 
to  ourselves,  and  we  became  account- 
able. But  whenever  someone  does  some- 
thing he  shouldn't  he  is  inclined  to 
justify  himself,  to  seek  to  shift  responsi- 
bility, to  say  that  pressures  or  outside 
influences  moved  him  to  do  what  he 
did,  and  that  he  is  not  responsible  for 
his  own  actions.  If  this  were  so,  no  law 
would  in  fact  have  any  force  or  effect, 
because  essentially  we  would  be  saying 
that  we  cannot  be  held  accountable. 
Some  become  enslaved  with  compulsive 
habits  or  yield  to  appetites  or  to  im- 
proper actions,  and  plead  that  they  are 
helpless  before  their  habits — that  they 
are  compelled,  persuaded;  that  tempta- 
tion was  stronger  than  their  will  to 
resist.  But  we  can  choose.  We  do 
choose' — in  many  things — and  we  can 


choose  in  others  also.  We  can  break 
had  habits;  we  can  acquire  good  habits; 
we  can  choose  what  we  think  by  the 
sheer  determination  to  do  so.  God  has 
given  us  our  agency,  the  right  and  obli- 
gation to  choose  between  right  and 
wrong.  This  is  one  of  life's  prime  pur- 
poses, and  the  person  who  says  he 
hasn't  self-control  is  saying  something 
much  more  serious  than  he  supposes — 
because  if  we  can't  control  our  thoughts 
we  can't  control  our  actions — so  how 
could  we  be  trusted  in  any  circum- 
stance or  assignment.  The  Command- 
ments are  still  in  force.  So  are  the  laws 
of  life,  the  laws  of  health,  the  laws  of 
the  land,  and  they  must  be  lived. 
Blessedly  we  can  repent;  we  can  turn 
from  a  wrong  road.  But  we  are  respon- 
sible, we  are  accountable  for  our 
thoughts,  our  words,  our  actions,  and  we 
must  have  the  character  and  the  con- 
viction to  keep  self-control.  "Convic- 
tion," said  Carlyle,  "is  worthless  unless 
it  is  converted  into  conduct."3  "Confirm 
thy  soul  in  self-control,  Thy  Liberty 
in  law."4 

(Organ  Selection:  "The  Lord  My  Pas- 
ture Will  Prepare." — Bortniansky.) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
organ  we  have  heard  a  hymn  melody 
by  Dimitri  Bortniansky:  "The  Lord  My 
Pasture  Will  Prepare." 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  recalls 
a  majestic  chorus  from  Mendelssohn's 
"Elijah":  "And  then  shall  your  light 
break  forth  as  the  light  of  morning 
breaketh  and  your  health  shall  speedily 
spring  forth  then;  And  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  ever  shall  reward  you.  Lord  our 
Creator,  how  excellent  thy  Name  is  in 
all  the  nations.  Thou  fillest  heav'n 
with  glory." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Then  Shall  Your 
Light." — Mendelssohn. ) 

Announcer:  "Jesus,  Savior,  pilot  me 
Over  life's  tempestuous  sea;  Unknown 
waves  before  me  roll,  Hiding  rock  and 
treacherous  shoal;  Chart  and  compass 
came  from  thee:  Jesus,  Savior,  pilot  me. 

1Winthrop  W.  Aldrich,  Voluntary  Action  and  Gov- 
ernmental Compulsion  in  Democracy,  delivered  at 
Columbia  University,  August  16,  1939. 

£]nhn  Locke,  Some  Thoughts  Concerning  Education. 

'Accredited  to  Carlyle. 

*Katherine  Lee  Bates,  America,  the  Beautiful 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  a  mother  stills  her  child,  Thou  canst 
hush  the  ocean  wild;  Boisterous  waves 
obey  thy  will,  When  thou  say'st  to 
them,  'be  still!'  Wondrous  Sovereign  of 
the  sea.  Jesus,  Savior  pilot  me." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Jesus,  Savior,  Pilot 
Me."— Gould.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  seventeen  hundred 
and  eighty-first  presentation,  and  con- 


tinues the  35th  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you 
by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Richrd  P.  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at  the 
organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference    1,  126 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   9 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   15 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P   65 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   9 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 
Brown,  President  Hugh  B   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Brown,  President  Hugh  B   91 

(Sunday  Morning  Address) 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L  119 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   130 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  115 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  127 

Cragun,  David   73 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   26 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   49 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  -   41 

Evans,  Richard  !...  Announcer  127 

(Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 
Evans,  Richard  L  130 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   19 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    9 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    73 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  127 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   99 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B   95 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  117 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   34 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  104 

Longden,  Elder  John    30 

McKay,  President  David  0   5 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O  -  89 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0  122 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  5,  9,  12,  14,  15,  19,  20,  22,  26,  30, 

32,  34,  40,  41,  44,  49,  52,  54,  55,  56,  60,  62,  65, 
68,  69,  72,  73,  75,  77,  83,  85,  89,  90,  91,  95,  99, 
101,  104,  108,  109,  114,  117,  118,  121,  122,  124. 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S   14 

Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K   62 


134 


INDEX 


Page 


Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   .   121 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    9 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  -   73 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D.   32 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   56 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   23 

Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  130 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   40 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    55 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   77 

Simmons,  Matthew    75 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L  102 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   60 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding     20 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   —   52 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L  109 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    9 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  130 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   12 

(Friday  Morning  Address) 
Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   69 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    90 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   108 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   45 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   68 


Printed  by 

DESERE^||£WS  PRESS 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


