Owl  (KwudtoiL  Jwsmh^-sdqhik. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

ciudce 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Qdtobsh,  10,  11,  and.  12,  1958 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-eighth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-eighth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
October  10,  11,  and  12,  1958. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday  evening, 
October  11,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
the  following  stations  made  available  to 
their  listening  or  viewing  audiences  one 
or  more  of  the  six  general  sessions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KPST 
at  Preston,  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KBOI  and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise, 
KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KRDG  and 
KVIP-TV  at  Redding,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KTTV  at  Los  Angeles, 
KERO-TV  at  Bakersfield,  KOVR-TV  at 
Stockton. 

In  Nevada:  KLRJ-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  Arizona:  KOLD  and  KGUN-TV  at 
Tucson,  KPHO-TV  at  Phoenix. 

In  Colorado:  KREX  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  Oregon:  KWRC  at  Pendleton, 
KRMW  at  The  Dalles,  KGW-TV  at 
Portland,  KBES-TV  at  Medford,  KOTI- 
TV  at  Klamath  Falls. 

In  Washington:  KTNT-TV  at  Ta- 
coma,  KHQ-TV  at  Spokane. 

In  Montana:  KXLJ-TV  at  Helena, 
KXLF-TV  at  Butte,  KOOK-TV  at 
Billings. 

In  New  Mexico:  KRSN  at  Los 
Alamos. 


All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeaking 
system  and  by  television.  Thousands,  in 
addition,  listened  to  the  services  on  the 
Tabernacle  Grounds  by  means  of  ampli- 
fying equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other  as- 
semblies in  Utah,  Washington,  Wyo- 
ming, Connecticut,  Massachusetts,  Ohio, 
North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  Penn- 
sylvania, Virginia,  Arizona,  Colorado, 
Illinois,  Wisconsin,  Maryland,  Michi- 
gan, Minnesota,  New  York,  Montana, 
Nevada,  New  Mexico,  Texas,  Idaho, 
Oregon,  California,  and  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record.  (See  pages  130-131) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  *,  Spencer  W. 
Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E. 
Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  L. 
Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand 
Richards,  Richard  L.  Evans,  George  Q. 
Morris,  and  Hugh  B.  Brown. 

*Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  touring  the 
South  African  Mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles:  **, 
Alma  Sonne,  ***,  John  Longden,  Ster- 
ling W.  Sill,  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Hen- 
ry D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow, 
Jr.****,  and  Alvin  R.  Dyer*****. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion 
Duff  Hanks,  and  Albert  Theodore 
Tuttle. 


**Elder  Clifford  E.  Young  passed 
away  August  21,  1958. 

***Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  tour- 
ing the  European  Missions. 

****Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 
was  sustained  October  11,  1958  as  an 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

*****Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer  was  sus- 
tained October  11,  1958  as  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants,  A. 
William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  Their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  convened  in  the  great 
Tabernacle  Friday  morning,  October  10, 
1958  at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the  three 
Southern  California  regions,  Sister  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  Confer- 
ence with  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  All  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  are  in  attend- 
ance excepting  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  and 
Elder  EIRay  Christiansen.  Elder  Lee 
is  visiting  the  South  African  Mission. 
Elder  Christiansen  is  in  the  European 
missions. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of  the 
Conference. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  the  building — the  Tab- 
ernacle, which  is  filled  so  far  as  we  can 
see,  every  seat  occupied — we  announce 
that  these  services  and  all  general  ses- 
sions of  the  Conference  will  be  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt 
Hall  by  television.  The  general  sessions 
of  this  Conference  will  be  broadcast  as 
a  public  service  over  television  and  radio 
stations  throughout  the  West.  The 
names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  television  and 
radio  audiences.  To  the  owners  and 
managers  of  these  various  stations  we 
wish  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
for  this  outstanding  public  service  so 
generously  extended. 

To  the  large  audience  assembled  in 
the  Tabernacle,  to  the  overflow  gather- 
ing in  the  Assembly  and  in  Barratt  Hall, 


and  to  the  untold  thousands  comprising 
the  television  and  radio  audiences,  in 
behalf  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  and  other  General 
Authorities,  we  bid  you  a  hearty  wel- 
come. 

Any  important  messages  or  cables, 
calls,  or  telegrams  that  come  to  us  for 
persons  attending  the  sessions  of  this 
Conference,  will  be  announced  at  the 
dismissal  of  the  meetings  over  the  public 
address  system  on  the  grounds. 

We  are  favored  this  morning  by  hav- 
ing the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  three  Southern  California  regions 
to  furnish  the  music.  You  who  were 
fortunate  enough  to  hear  the  program 
of  the  General  Board  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety last  Wednesday  and  Thursday  will 
know  what  a  treat  is  in  store  for  us  with 
these  Singing  Mothers. 

The  beautiful  flowers  which  you  see 
arranged  on  the  rostrum  and  pulpit  have 
come  from  two  countries  far  removed 
from  each  other, — South  Africa  and 
Hawaii.  The  flowers  from  South  Africa 
are  a  variety  of  the  protea,  the  national 
flower  of  South  Africa.  These  flowers  are 
unique  inasmuch  as  South  Africa  is  the 
only  place  in  the  world  where  they  are 
found.  Our  gardener,  Brother  Irvin  T. 
Nelson,  this  morning  informed  me  that 
these  are  taken  right  out  of  the  desert, 
according  to  pictures  he  has  seen,  and 
they  seem  to  be  just  that. 

Elder  Glen  G.  Fisher,  president  of  the 
South  African  Mission,  informs  us  that 
the  branch  Relief  Society  sisters  through- 
out the  South  African  Mission  have  put 
on  cake  sales  and  made  individual  con- 
tributions, and  have  manifested  a  keen 
interest  in  this  project  in  order  that  they 
might  send  these  rare  flowers  for  our 
enjoyment  during  this  Conference. 

The  entire  South  African  Mission 
membership  will  have  more  than  com- 
mon interest  in  our  Conference,  since 
at  this  time  they  are  enjoying  a  visit 
from  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Sister  Lee  is 
accompanying  him  on  this  tour. 
The  other  flowers,  the  beautiful  red 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  10 

antheriums,  have  come  to  us  from  the 
Honolulu  Stake.  Elder  Jay  A.  Quealy, 
Jr.,  president,  says  that  the  members  of 
the  stake  send  their  love  and  greetings 
with  these  lovely  flowers. 

With  all  our  hearts  we  express  appre- 
ciation and  thanks  to  the  members  of 
the  Church  in  these  far-off  lands  for 
these  lovely  flowers  bearing  their  mes- 
sages of  loyalty,  affection,  and  greeting. 
Our  thoughts  and  best  wishes  will  be 
with  them  as  we  enjoy  the  beauty  of 
their  flowers  this  October  Conference. 
Flowers  have  an  expression  of  counte- 
nance as  much  as  men  or  animals.  Some 
seem  to  smile.  Some  have  a  sad  expres- 
sion. Some  are  pensive  and  diffident. 
Others  again  are  plain,  honest  and  up- 
right, like  the  broad-faced  sunflower  and 
the  holly-hock.  We  express  apprecia- 
tion of  the  effort  put  forth  by  these 
far  off  branches,  wards,  and  stakes 
joining  hands  with  us  here. 

I  shall  read  some  telegrams  just  re- 
ceived. It  just  seems  we  are  shaking 
hands  with  our  members  of  the  Church 
across  the  Atlantic  on  one  side,  and 
across  the  Pacific  on  the  other.  How 
glorious  it  would  be  this  morning  if  na- 
tions could  extend  the  same  greeting  to 
one  another,  and  have  in  their  hearts 
the  same  feeling  of  brotherhood  and 
fraternity  that  we  have  for  our  friends 
and  fellow  members  over  the  seas! 

From  South  America  we  have  the 
following  cable:  "Brethren,  we  are 
united  with  the  Brazilian  Saints  and 
missionaries  in  sending  our  sustaining 
vote,  our  love  and  appreciation  for  your 
inspired  leadership.  Asael  T.  Sorensen, 
president." 

From  Brother  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  who  is  now 
touring  the  European  missions,  we  have 
the  following:  "October  8,  President 
David  O.  McKay:  As  Conference  ap- 
proaches we  extend  to  all  our  love  and 
best  wishes.  All  well." 

From  Australia:  "The  Saints  of  the 
Australian  Mission  send  you  greetings 
and  thanks  as  you  meet  in  General  Con- 
ference." 

We  have  a  telegram  also  from  the 
mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City,  expressing  re- 
gret that  due  to  an  unexpected  meeting 
he  will  not  be  able  to  attend  the  opening 


First  Day 

session.  He  planned  on  being  in  attend- 
ance, but  found  it  impossible  to  do  so. 
He  extends  to  all  his  prayers  and  best 
wishes  for  a  successful  Conference,  and 
hopes  he  will  be  able  to  be  in  attendance 
at  the  other  sessions. 

We  have  before  us  men  who  are  not 
especially  appointed,  but  who,  out  of 
good  will  and  their  best  wishes  for  the 
success  of  the  Conference,  are  here  with 
us  this  morning.  We  are  glad  that 
Brother  Benson,  a  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  is  with  us.  Also  here 
are  Arthur  V.  Watkins,  United  States 
Senator;  Wallace  F.  Bennett,  United 
States  Senator;  William  A.  Dawson, 
Congressman;  Henry  Aldous  Dixon, 
Congressman;  George  Dewey  Clyde,  our 
own  Governor  of  the  State;  Lamont  To- 
ronto, Secretary  of  State;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  president  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University;  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin, 
president  of  the  University  of  Utah;  E. 
Allen  Bateman,  State  Superintendent  of 
Public  Instruction;  M.  Lynn  Bennion, 
Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools;  Dr.  William  Miller,  president 
of  the  Weber  College;  and  perhaps 
others  whom  we  have  not  been  able 
to  see  from  the  rostrum.  We  welcome 
all — presidents  of  stakes,  bishops  of 
wards — to  all  we  extend  welcome  and 
express  satisfaction  and  pleasure  in  your 
presence  and  your  cooperative  spirit. 

The  music  for  this  morning's  session, 
as  already  announced,  will  be  furnished 
by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  three  Southern  California  re- 
gions, with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  singing, 
"The  Morning  Breaks,  The  Shadows 
Flee."  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Lee  Benson  Valentine, 
formerly  president  of  the  Argentine 
Mission. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "The  Morning  Breaks,  The 
Shadows  Flee." 

Elder  Lee  Benson  Valentine,  former 
president  of  the  Argentine  Mission, 
offered  the  invocation. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Lee  Benson  Valentine,  formerly 
president  of  the  Argentine  Mission.  The 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now 
sing,  "If  Ye  Love  Me,  Keep  My  Com- 
mandments." Music  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  who  will  now  lead 
the  Chorus  in  singing. 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  sang  the 
selection,  "If  Ye  Love  Me,  Keep  My 
Commandments." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Ivins. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  I  join  in  the  welcome  and 
greeting  extended  to  you  by  President 
McKay.  I  respond  humbly  to  the  as- 
signment to  speak  to  you  in  the  opening 
of  our  conference  with  unusual  anxiety 
in  the  thought  that  many  may  expect 
the  usual  inspirational  opening  address 
by  the  President.  I  counsel  those  who 
are  disappointed  to  be  patient,  because 
they  will  be  amply  rewarded  in  a  later 
session. 

I  am  taking  the  liberty  of  addressing 
my  remarks  in  large  measure  to  our 
friends  who  compliment  us  by  listening 
to  the  conference  over  radio  and  tele- 
vision. The  message  I  have  for  them 
I  give  with  frankness,  hoping  that  they 
will  not  misconstrue  my  frankness  for 
disrespect  of  them  and  their  beliefs. 
Only  by  being  outspoken  can  I  hope 
to  make  any  contribution. 

Some  time  ago  a  member  of  my  fam- 
ily sent  to  me  a  critical  article  written 
by  Mr.  Edmund  Fuller  in  a  publication 
called  Saturday  Review.  The  criticism 
of  the  writer  is  directed  against  the  ef- 
fort made  to  satisfy  what  the  author 
designates  as  "general  religious  hunger," 
with  books,  articles,  and  public  appear- 
ances of  nationally  advertised  indi- 
viduals, carrying  on  a  propaganda  for 
what  is  characterized  as  (these  are 
quoted)  "the  good  life,"  "peace  of 
mind,"  "positive  thinking,"  and  "suc- 
cessful" or  "confident  living."  What  the 
author  objects  to  most  strenuously  is 
not  so  much  that  propaganda  should 
be  issued  for  the  optimism  of  "peace  of 
mind"  and  "positive  thinking,"  but  that 
this  psychological  optimism  should  be 
held  out  in  any  form  as  an  interpreta- 


tion of  or  a  substitute  for  the  real  Chris- 
tian religion. 

He  expresses  deep  concern  in  the 
situation,  not  so  much  because  such 
propagandists  are  taking  from  an  un- 
informed and  unthinking  public  mil- 
lions of  dollars  from  the  sale  of  their 
books  and  services,  but  that  the  unin- 
formed victims  of  the  propaganda  are 
losing  something  far  more  important 
than  their  money — an  intelligent  and 
true  concept  of  religion  and  Christianity. 

Mr.  Fuller,  the  critic,  asks,  "Where, 
in  all  the  morass  of  false  witness, 
whether  in  quests  for  successful  living 
or  in  saccharine  sentimentality — where 
are  the  great,  historic  central  themes, 
subjects,  words  of  Christianity  through 
the  ages?  Where  are  considerations  of 
the  Trinity,  incarnation,  covenant, 
atonement,  redemption,  salvation,  sin, 
offering,  judgment,  worship,  sacrament, 
sacrifice,  communion,  and  the  idea  of 
the  Holy?" 

In  general,  I  find  myself  in  agree- 
ment with  this  criticism.  I  think, 
however,  that  Mr.  Fuller  himself  is 
only  partially  informed  with  reference 
to  the  true  Christian  religion,  and  I 
think,  too,  that  the  trends  which  he 
analyzes  and  criticizes  have  come  about 
and  are  in  part  tolerated  by  people  of 
the  world  because  of  inadequate  under- 
standing of  the  vital  concepts  of  true 
religion. 

Not  infrequently  do  we  see  and  hear 
the  statement  published  that  what  the 
world  needs  is  to  come  to  Christ,  and 
that  only  Christ  can  save  the  world. 
We  subscribe,  of  course,  to  these  state- 
ments, but  we  question  with  ample 
justification  the  interpretation  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  10 

Christ  and  his  teachings  which  has 
been  brought  to  the  world  these  many 
years.  I  believe  we  are  justified  in 
ascribing  many  of  these  attempts  to 
find  substitute  for  the  real  Christian 
faith,  and  the  failure  of  that  faith  to 
find  true  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of 
innumerable  people,  to  this  inadequate 
interpretation. 

We  criticize  no  honest  soul  in  choos- 
ing his  religion  and  living  by  it,  but 
when  the  truth  is  available,  we  take  the 
position  that  every  individual,  ade- 
quately to  exercise  his  free  agency  and 
power  of  choice,  should  have  and  must 
have,  wherever  and  whenever  circum- 
stances will  permit,  the  truth  about  the 
Christian  religion  presented  to  him. 
We  feel  that  he  cannot  be  ultimately 
bound  in  the  sight  of  God  by  the  choice 
he  makes  unless  he  does  have  such  op- 
portunity. We  agree  with  the  critic, 
Mr.  Fuller,  that  it  is  an  intolerable 
imposition  upon  the  unsuspecting  and 
uninformed  to  offer  to  them  what  he 
calls  "ersatz  foods"  to  satisfy  their  re- 
ligious hunger,  but  we  go  further.  We 
believe  it  is  likewise  an  imposition  to 
foist  upon  the  uninformed  an  incorrect 
and  unwarranted  interpretation  of 
Christ  and  his  gospel,  and  we  believe 
that  generation  after  generation  over 
centuries  of  time  have  been  held  in 
darkness  and  denied  the  saving  truths 
of  the  gospel  because  of  such  misin- 
terpretations. Indeed,  we  ascribe  the 
present  condition  of  the  world  and  the 
limited  acceptance  of  the  true  Christian 
faith  largely  to  ignorance  of  the  true 
gospel. 

How  much  of  tolerance  should  be 
allowed  for  the  mistakes  in  interpreta- 
tion and  practices  of  the  past,  as  per- 
taining to  the  followers  of  Christ,  we 
are  not  prepared  to  say.  The  Lord  will 
judge,  and  his  judgment  will  be  right- 
eous and  merciful.  We  are  constrained 
to  deplore  the  results  of  these  misin- 
terpretations. The  revelations  predict 
the  outcome  which  has  literally  come 
to  pass.  Isaiah  foresaw  both  the  condi- 
tions and  results.  You  will  recall  this 
impressive  and  portentous  statement: 

".  .  .  Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw 
near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with 
their  lips  do  honour  me,  but  have  re- 
moved their  heart  far  from  me,  and 


First  Day 

their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the 
precept  of  men: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 
do  a  marvellous  work  among  this  peo- 
ple, even  a  marvellous  work  and  a  won- 
der: .  .  ."  (Isaiah  29:13-14.) 

This  great  statement  is  corroborated 
by  the  Savior  in  Matthew  15:8-9,  and 
by  revelations  and  prophecies  of  mod- 
ern times.  In  March  of  1831,  less  than 
a  year  after  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  re- 
ceived from  the  Lord  a  comforting  and 
encouraging  assurance  confirmatory  of 
the  predictions  which  had  been  made 
centuries  before,  which  reads  as  follows: 

"And  when  the  times  of  the  Gentiles 
is  come  in,  a  light  shall  break  forth 
among  them  that  sit  in  darkness,  and 
it  shall  be  the  fulness  of  my  gospel." 
(D  &  C  45:28.) 

That  light,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
and  friends,  has  come  to  the  world.  It 
is  the  light  of  revelation,  and  through 
revelation  has  come  the  true  interpreta- 
tion of  the  Christ,  his  mission,  and  his 
gospel.  All  men  of  all  nations  embraced 
within  the  family  of  the  Eternal  Father 
are  entitled  by  his  decree  to  receive  the 
light  and  to  receive  an  understanding 
of  the  true,  revealed  order  of  the  king- 
dom of  God.  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  established 
under  the  direction  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son,  is  the  custodian  of  the  revealed 
principles  of  the  restored  gospel  and  the 
authority  to  administer  its  ordinances 
under  divine  commission.  I  am  aware 
that  by  many  this  will  be  regarded  as 
an  extreme  and  presumptuous  state- 
ment. We  make  it  only  because  we  are 
constrained  by  the  revelations  so  to  do. 
I  assure  you  it  would  be  much  easier 
to  attempt  to  win  a  reputation  for  tol- 
erance by  modifying  and  ameliorating 
our  position.  If  we  did  so,  we  and  our 
message  would  be  of  little  value  to  our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  the  world,  and 
we  should  be  untrue  to  our  commission. 

Revelation  is  the  foundation  of  our 
faith.  We  are  not  ashamed  to  declare 
that  the  Lord  has  spoken  through  his 
servants  in  modern  times  as  he  did  in 
days  of  old.  Why  should  men  find  so 
much  difficulty  in  accepting  revelation? 
I  assume  that  it  is  because  it  seems  to 
them  unnatural  that  messages  should 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


7 


come  from  the  unseen  world,  but  cer- 
tainly it  is  no  more  unnatural  in  the 
present  day  than  in  the  past,  and  few 
would  deny  the  need  of  God's  guidance 
in  the  world  of  today. 

I  think  that  the  Apostle  Paul  was  in- 
spired to  foresee  the  conditions  of  the 
world  when  he  gave  his  famous  defini- 
tion of  the  gospel:  "For  I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ:  for  it 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
everyone  that  believeth;  .  .  ."  (Romans 
1:16.)  He  must  have  foreseen  that 
men,  lacking  in  faith,  would  be  ashamed 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  particularly 
revelation,  the  seemingly  unnatural 
process  by  which  the  Lord  communi- 
cates with  man. 

Now,  we  assert  that  there  is  no  true 
religion  without  revelation.  Men  may 
contrive  all  sorts  of  societies,  associa- 
tions, and  establishments,  but  men  of 
themselves  cannot  create  the  gospel  of 
Christ  and  the  kingdom  of  God.  That 
is  a  divine  function  limited  to  divine 
power  only. 

I  submit  this  conclusion  in  humility 
to  my  friends,  hoping  and  praying  that 
they  may  recognize  the  logic  and  truth 
of  it,  and  muster  sufficient  faith  to  ac- 
cept revelation  as  the  basis  for  all  true 
religion  and  the  interpretation  of  the 
gospel.  I  assure  all  my  friends  who  lis- 
ten that  this  custody  of  the  truth  and 
divine  commission  is  not  a  light  assign- 
ment. It  is  heavy,  weighted  with  a 
responsibility  both  institutional  and 
personal,  not  exceeded,  and  I  think  not 
equaled,  by  responsibilities  borne  by 
any  other  people  or  cause.  All  of  us 
within  the  restored  Church  of  our  Lord 
take  this  responsibility  most  seriously. 
The  assumption  of  responsibility  of 
membership  in  the  Church  often  brings 
a  radical  change  in  living,  behavior, 
and  philosophy.  The  obligation  felt 
by  the  membership  to  consecrate  and 
dedicate  themselves  to  the  dissemina- 
tion of  what  the  revelations  call  "pure 
knowledge"  among  the  inhabitants  of 
the  world  becomes  an  obsession,  not 
fanatical,  but  practical.  In  the  concept 
of  each  member  is  the  recognition  of  a 
debt — a  debt  to  be  paid  not  so  much 
to  the  donor  of  the  gift  he  has  received, 
but  a  repayment  in  terms  of  conscious 
effort  to  give  to  others  the  light  and 


truth  which  someone  has  brought  to 
him. 

Many  people  have  asked:  "What  is 
the  sustaining  philosophy  behind  your 
marvelous  missionary  system?"  Well, 
I  have  just  stated  it.  It  is  the  recogni- 
tion of  a  noble  obligation  and  purpose 
to  extend  the  knowledge  of  truth,  born 
out  of  gratitude  for  blessings  received. 

This  condition  creates  zest  and  en- 
thusiasm for  missionary  work,  and  what 
to  many  is  a  very  strange  feature  of  it, 
is  that  the  enthusiasm  is  not  evanescent. 
It  does  not  die  periodically  and  then 
have  to  be  revived.  It  persists.  And 
why?  First,  I  think,  because  of  the  ab- 
solute unquestioning  conviction  in  the 
cause.  And  secondly,  because  of  the  love 
of  humanity  engendered  by  the  gospel, 
that  all  are  in  reality  of  the  family 
of  God,  and  that  such  parentage  makes 
all  men  brothers. 

I  wish  I  had  some  way  of  making  all 
friends  who  listen  appreciate  the  depth 
of  conviction  that  actuates  the  members 
of  the  Church  in  carrying  forth  its  great 
work  in  the  world.  Perhaps  it  is  a  little 
indelicate  to  cite  a  personal  experience 
in  the  effort  to  give  my  friends  under- 
standing on  this  point.  I  hope,  how- 
ever, you  will  tolerate  the  recital  of  my 
experience. 

More  than  fifty  years  ago  I  began  the 
practice  of  law  with  a  deep  love  for  the 
profession,  and  a  long-cherished  ambi- 
tion to  succeed.  I  went  through  what 
is  commonly  called  the  starvation  peri- 
od, and  after  thirteen  years  achieved 
some  modest  success,  at  least  sufficient 
to  encourage  me  and  build  up  my  hopes 
for  the  future. 

One  day  while  sitting  in  my  office 
I  received  a  telephone  call.  I  was  ad- 
vised that  the  President  of  the  Church 
wished  to  see  me  immediately.  I  went 
as  requested  to  a  meeting  in  the  temple, 
where  the  President  of  the  Church,  his 
Counselors,  and  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  were  in  attendance.  I 
was  told  by  the  President  of  the  Church 
that  I  had  been  selected  to  become  a 
member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  and  then  asked  if  I  would  ac- 
cept this  position.  Obeying  my  concepts 
and  convictions  regarding  the  govern- 
ment of  the  Church,  I  accepted  and 
was  ordained  to  the  position. 


8 

Friday,  October  10 

Within  the  space  of  twenty  minutes 
the  whole  course  of  my  life  had  been 
changed.  My  professional  career  and 
ambitions  were  abandoned,  and  for  more 
than  forty  years  I  have  devoted  myself 
to  the  ministry  under  my  call,  although 
I  had  had  no  previous  preparation,  as 
the  churches  of  the  world  give,  for  this 
undertaking. 

I  cite  this  circumstance  merely  as  an 
example  of  everyday  occurrence  in  the  re- 
stored Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Of  course 
apostles  are  not  called  every  day,  but 
so-called  laymen  are  being  called  every 
day  to  serve  in  positions  of  trust  and 
honor.  These  calls  in  numerous  cases 
involve  substantial  change  in  occupa- 
tions and  professions,  and  in  some  in- 
stances, as  in  the  callings  of  mission 
presidents  and  missionaries,  complete 
abandonment  for  a  period  of  years  of 
all  gainful  occupation,  and  a  personal 
assumption  of  considerable  responsi- 
bility to  fulfil  the  assignment. 

Now,  my  point  is,  and  I  think  it  ought 
to  be  clear  to  our  friends,  that  men  do 
not  do  these  things  without  complete 
conversion  and  complete  conviction  as 
to  the  Tightness  of  their  course.  I  am 
aware  that  many  may  say  that  sincerity 
of  belief  is  not  proof  of  the  truth,  and 
I  am  not  contending,  as  the  old  cliche 
has  it,  "that  fifty  million  Frenchmen 
can't  be  wrong."  There  are,  however, 
at  least  two  legitimate  and  justifiable 
deductions  that  our  friends  may  make 
from  the  circumstances  I  have  men- 
tioned. First,  that  the  unmistakable 
evidence  of  conviction  in  the  Tightness 
of  their  cause  and  conduct  are  excep- 
tional in  a  day  of  materialistic  living 
and  purpose,  not  readily  duplicated  in 
other  causes;  and  the  second  point  of 
appeal  held  out  to  our  brothers  and 
sisters  in  the  world  is  that  the  circum- 
stances warrant  investigation.  That  is 
all  our  missionaries  the  world  over  are 
advised  to  request  of  the  people  they 
visit — investigate,  discover  for  yourself. 
Use  your  own  Bibles.  Diminish  none 
of  your  love  for  God  and  Christ  and 
your  fellow  men,  but  study  and  investi- 
gate the  Christian  religion  with  the 
light  which  the  restored  gospel  has 
brought  to  it.  Why  should  any  true 
searcher  for  truth  have  objection  to 
these   two   elements — a  demonstrated 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

sincerity  and  conviction  on  the  part  of 
the  missionary,  and  an  invitation  to 
hear  and  investigate  the  message? 

Now,  I  wish  to  extend  my  remarks  to 
cover  an  additional  aspect  of  this  sub- 
ject. I  am  of  the  definite  opinion  that 
the  religious  hunger  of  the  people,  as 
Mr.  Fuller  puts  it,  cannot  be  satisfied 
with  the  current  interpretation  of  the 
Christ  put  forth  by  many  professing 
Christianity.  All  proclaim  him  a  great 
teacher.  Most  assert  that  he  is  Savior 
of  mankind,  and  all  invest  him  with  the 
highest  and  noblest  attributes.  Alto- 
gether too  many,  however,  worship  at 
the  shrine  of  his  attributes,  but  deny 
the  sovereignty  of  the  King.  In  my 
humble  opinion,  what  the  world  so 
urgently  needs  is  a  present  realistic  con- 
cept and  recognition  of  the  Christ  as 
Lord  of  this  earth,  as  Lawgiver  and 
Judge.  If  he  were  recognized  as  the 
author  and  projector  of  all  moral  codes 
and  righteousness,  and  if  it  were  recog- 
nized that  infraction  of  his  law  is  sin,  I 
am  sure  there  would  be  less  violation 
than  we  see  today,  and  there  would  be 
far  less  tolerance  for  violation,  which 
is  today  undermining  the  morality  of 
nations.  Christ  will  save  the  world 
when  and  only  when  men  and  women 
of  the  world  put  themselves  in  position 
to  be  saved.  It  is  unthinkable  that  he 
can  deviate  from  the  inexorable  laws  of 
righteousness,  which  from  the  beginning 
to  the  end  he  has  set  for  mankind. 
When  men  sin,  there  is  no  substitute 
for  repentance  to  bring  to  them  a  resto- 
ration of  blessings  they  have  forfeited. 
So  any  interpretation  of  the  Christ  as 
Lord  of  the  earth  which  would  invest 
him  with  capricious  and  variable  judg- 
ment founded  on  so-called  grace  and 
pity  is  harmful  and  not  true.  The  true 
gospel  is  not  a  spiritual  sedative.  It  is 
a  challenge  to  the  strength  and  will  of 
mankind  to  enter  into  an  everlasting 
covenant  with  injunctions  and  promises, 
the  observance  of  which  yields  the  re- 
ward of  exaltation  in  the  eternal  pres- 
ence. Christ  is  the  author  of  mercy, 
but  he  himself  said  that  he  came  to 
fulfil  the  law  and  not  do  away  with  it, 
and  he  declared  that  mercy  shall  not 
rob  justice. 

I  am  deeply  concerned,  too,  with  the 
tendency  to  invest  the  Lord  our  Savior 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


with  a  mystical  character.  I  am  not 
sure  that  I  know  just  what  is  contem- 
plated by  "mystical."  He  is  not  mysti- 
cal to  me,  nor  to  the  great  body  of  his 
followers  with  which  I  have  the  honor 
to  be  associated.  It  is  true  that  he  does 
not  move  about  among  us  in  the  form 
in  which  he  once  presented  himself  to 
humanity,  but  he  is  real.  He  was 
resurrected  in  the  form  in  which  he  was 
crucified,  and  he  lives  in  the  heavens 
he  has  described.  He  will  return  as  he 
has  promised,  and  in  the  meantime  he 
has  left  an  organization  which  he  es- 
tablished through  his  commissioned 
servants,  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  to 
build  his  kingdom  and  prepare  the  way 
for  his  coming.  I  hope  that  they  who 
profess  to  love  and  adore  him  will  not 
make  him  less  than  he  himself  said 
that  he  was — the  Son  of  the  Father,  on 
the  right  hand  of  God,  Lord,  Lawgiver, 
and  Judge  of  all  men  in  the  earth,  in- 
vested with  powers  and  authorities  ever- 
lasting. 

So,  it  is  the  worship  of  our  Lord  so 
interpreted,  it  is  the  acceptance  of  his 
revealed  and  restored  gospel,  and  that 
alone,  which  will  adequately  and  per- 
petually satisfy  the  "hunger  for  re- 
ligion," which  I  sincerely  hope  pervades 
the  world  today.  Christ  has  been  seen 
in  modern  times.  There  are  creditable 
witnesses  whose  testimony  has  never 
been  successfully  refuted  to  two  such 
appearances — first,  when  he  appeared 
to  the  young  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  in 
answer  to  prayer,  accompanying  his 
Father,  the  Eternal  God.  This  heavenly 
vision,  without  argument,  brought  to 
the  world  an  irrefutable  and  true  con- 
cept of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Then 
he  appeared  to  this  same  prophet  with 
an  associate  when  he  was  more  mature 


in  a  temple  which  had  been  erected 
to  his  name.  This  is  the  testimony  of 
that  appearance: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him, 
and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof 
are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God."  (D  &  C  76:22-24.) 

Every  fiber  of  my  being  responds  to 
that  testimony.  I  am  completely  con- 
vinced that  the  men  who  bore  the  testi- 
mony told  the  truth.  Every  interpreta- 
tive sense  which  I  possess  tells  me 
without  doubt  or  equivocation  that  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  lives  as  a  resur- 
rected eternal  being,  and  that  he  is  my 
Lord  and  my  Savior,  and  the  Lord  of 
all  men.  I  could  wish  for  no  greater 
happiness,  peace,  and  satisfaction  to 
come  to  all  our  friends  than  that  they 
should  enjoy  the  blessing,  the  incom- 
parable blessing,  of  this  knowledge  and 
assurance. 

May  the  world  come  to  peace  and 
happiness  through  the  recognition  of 
the  true  Christ,  I  ask  humbly  in  his 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now 
address  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  that 
the  few  words  I  attempt  may  be  di- 
rected by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  that 
perchance  they  may  be  helpful  to  us 
and  give  us  courage  in  the  efforts  that 
we  are  making  to  carry  forward  the 
work  of  God. 

I  am  happy  to  be  here  today  and 


listen  to  these  fine  sisters  sing  as  they 
did  Wednesday  when  I  attended  the 
meetings  of  the  Relief  Society,  where  I 
always  gain  a  wonderful  respect  for  the 
women  of  the  Church,  and  the  effort 
they  are  putting  forth  to  further  the 
work  of  God. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 


10  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  10 

truth  of  all  that  we  have  listened  to 
this  morning  from  President  Richards. 
As  I  look  forward  and  see  this  great 
number  of  men,  many  of  whose  faces 
are  not  familiar  to  me  but  many  of 
them  are,  and  when  I  try  to  figure  in 
my  mind  the  responsibility  that  rests 
upon  them  individually  and  collectively 
as  the  bearers  of  the  priesthood,  I  won- 
der how  I  could  make  that  plain,  what 
words  it  would  take  to  impress  upon  us 
all  the  dignity  and  responsibility  of  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

I  presume  that  all  of  us  who  are  here 
today  believe  the  things  that  President 
Richards  has  told  us,  that  we  believe 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  actually  the  Son  of 
God.  He  told  Peter  that  upon  that 
testimony  that  he  is,  he  would  build 
his  Church.  I  hope  we  have,  as  I  have 
said  more  than  once  from  this  pulpit, 
the  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  God,  for  as  long  as  we  do,  and 
live  true  to  it,  no  danger  will  ever  befall 
the  Church. 

I  believe  in  the  verity  of  the  story 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  Christ 
appeared  to  him  and  gave  him  a  com- 
mission, and  that  true  to  that  commis- 
sion he  was  finally  authorized  and  em- 
powered to  reorganize  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ;  that  through  the  revelations 
which  have  come  to  us  through  him  we 
have  a  true  conception  of  the  purpose  of 
life  and  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  believe,  moreover,  that  the  priesthood 
was  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  that  it  has  come  down  to  us 
in  an  unbroken  line,  authoritative,  and 
that  only  through  the  operation  of  that 
priesthood  can  the  ordinances  which 
are  designed  for  the  exaltation  of  men 
and  women  be  performed  in  their  be- 
half. 

Now,  this  being  true,  this  being  the 
testimony  of  all  who  are  here  today, 
as  I  presume  it  is,  then  we  have  a  real 
responsibility,  and  I  stand  before  you 
today  representing  a  group  of  men  in 
the  priesthood  whose  major  purpose  it 
is  to  bear  that  testimony  to  the  world — 
the  seventies  of  the  Church.  It  hap- 
pens, however,  that  in  carrying  that 
message  to  the  world,  we  avail  ourselves 
of  men  who  have  not  yet  been  ordained 
seventies  and  of  sisters  in  the  Church, 
and  also  we  use  men  who  have  perhaps 


First  Day 

been  through  the  order  of  the  seventy 
and  become  high  priests,  or  at  any  rate 
who  are  high  priests.  So  we  have  a 
large  force  of  men  whom  we  use  to 
spread  this  knowledge  of  the  gospel  to 
the  peoples  of  the  world.  The  largest 
part  of  these  male  missionaries  is  made 
up  of  the  elders  of  the  Church  and 
many  of  them  of  rather  limited  experi- 
ence. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  older  members, 
the  fathers,  uncles,  grandfathers,  cousins, 
and  so  forth,  who  have  this  testimony 
in  their  hearts,  to  establish  it  in  the 
hearts  of  these  growing  young  men,  so 
that  at  such  time  as  they  may  come  to 
us  and  offer  their  services  that  they 
may  have  a  living  testimony  that  Christ 
is  the  Son  of  God,  that  the  Church  was 
authoritatively  organized,  that  the 
priesthood  is  in  the  earth,  all  of  which 
is  essential  to  the  exaltation  of  men. 

If  every  elder  who  goes  into  the  mis- 
sion field  could  go  with  that  testimony, 
he  would  be  a  power  of  strength  and 
vigor,  and  his  example  would  be  above 
reproach  as  he  labors  among  the  people 
of  the  world. 

Now,  who  is  going  to  impress  these 
young  people  with  this  and  how  are  we 
going  to  do  it?  We  all  have  that  re- 
sponsibility whether  we  be  fathers  of 
these  young  men,  or  relatives,  or  just 
friends  and  acquaintances,  or  even 
strangers;  when  occasion  may  permit, 
we  have  the  responsibility  of  striving 
to  instil  in  their  hearts  a  firm  and  liv- 
ing testimony  of  the  truth  of  these 
things. 

It  happens,  occasionally,  that  young 
men  go  out  who  cannot  say  they  know 
it.  Sister  Ivins  and  I  were  on  a  train 
one  time  with  a  group  going  into  the 
Central  Atlantic  States  Mission.  A  very 
outstanding  young  man  was  in  that 
party.  In  the  testimony  meeting  that 
we  held  in  Roanoke  the  night  of  our 
arrival,  he  said,  "I  cannot  tell  you 
definitely  that  I  know  the  gospel  is  true." 
But  he  believed  it,  and  he  sought  that 
testimony.  I  think  it  was  about  ten 
days  or  two  weeks  later,  that  we  met 
him  again  in  a  testimony  meeting. 
Then  with  all  the  fervor  that  one  could 
ask  for,  he  bore  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  gospel. 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


11 


know  of  the  doctrine.  .  .  ."  (John  7:17) 
the  Savior  said;  and  this  elder  had 
found  it  out.  Perhaps  it  would  have 
been  a  bit  better  had  he  had  that  testi- 
mony in  his  heart  as  he  accepted  his 
call  for  missionary  service. 

It  has  been  a  long  time  since  I  first 
sat  on  the  missionary  committee  with 
President  McKay,  who  was  a  Counselor 
then  to  President  Grant,  and  after  him 
with  President  Richards.  We  have 
seen  many,  many  men  come  to  us  for 
interview  and  go  into  the  mission  field. 
It  is  my  testimony  that  most  of  them, 
brethren  and  sisters,  are  worthy  of  the 
call  that  is  given  them.  Occasionally, 
however,  we  have  problems  with  some 
of  them,  and  the  problems  frequently 
arise  because,  either  they  have  not  been 
properly  taught  or,  having  been  taught, 
they  have  been  a  bit  adverse  and  felt 
that  they  were  being  circumscribed  in 
their  liberties. 

We  must  not  let  them  feel  that  way, 
brethren  and  sisters.  We  must  build 
in  them  a  love  for  the  Church  and  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  must  pre- 
sent to  them  an  attitude  not  of  criticism 
of  the  operation  of  the  Church,  but  of 
approval,  the  testimony  that  there  is 
actually  today  among  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  inspiration. 

I  have  lived  in  this  Church  a  long 
time,  and  since  I  was  eight  years  old  I 
have  been  a  baptized  member  of  the 
Church,  and  I  have  seen  some  of  its 
practices  change.  I  cannot  remember 
ever  hearing  of  a  change  of  the  doctrine 
of  the  Church,  but  it  has  been  possible 
to  change  some  things.  I  remember 
when  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion came  to  St.  George  in  its,  shall  I 
say,  primeval  condition,  and  I  have 
watched  it  change  its  policies  and  prac- 
tices, always  for  the  better. 

There  are  some  people  who  feel  that 
there  never  ought  to  be  a  change  of  that 
kind  in  the  Church,  but  it  happens. 

I  bear  testimony,  too,  that  those 
changes  in  my  opinion  have  been  in- 
spired. But  there  are  some  of  us  who 
feel  that  we  cannot  accept  those  things. 
We  have  no  right,  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  teach  our  young,  growing  people  that 
it  should  not  have  been  done. 

I  remember  meeting  a  boy  years  ago 


out  in  Shreveport,  who  came  from  a 
family  that  was  divided  in  that  respect, 
a  mother  that  was  firm  in  her  faith,  a 
father  that  had  an  idea  that  certain 
things  should  not  have  been  changed, 
and  I  found  that  boy  following  the  line 
of  thinking  which  his  father  had  in- 
stilled in  his  heart.  Repeated  promises 
on  his  part  to  refrain  from  worrying  his 
companions  with  those  teachings  failed. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  these  are 
serious  conditions,  and  who  is  responsi- 
ble for  them  when  they  exist  in  the 
hearts  of  boys  and  girls?  Somebody,  and 
usually  somebody  who  holds  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  is  responsible  for 
it,  brethren  and  sisters.  We  have  that 
great  obligation  to  build  faith  in  the 
leadership  of  the  Church,  faith  in  the 
revelations  of  God  to  guide  this  Church, 
and  when  we  fail  to  do  it,  perhaps  there 
will  come  a  time  when  we  may  answer 
for  our  failure. 

I  think  that  is  one  of  our  greatest 
responsibilities,  today,  brethren  and 
sisters — to  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  our  homes,  in  our  families,  in  our 
ministry  among  the  people,  in  our  busi- 
ness relationships,  so  that  growing  men 
and  women  can  see  the  results  that  may 
come  from  an  inspired  testimony  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  the 
gospel  has  been  restored,  that  as  has 
been  said  this  morning,  the  Church  is 
the  custodian  of  the  priesthood  and  that 
we  have  the  responsibility  of  carrying 
this  message  to  the  world. 

We  are  happy,  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  contributions  you  are  making  of 
the  services  of  your  sons  and  daughters. 
They  are  coming  to  us  in  great  numbers 
and  most  of  them  are  eminently  worthy. 
When  they  come  to  me,  I  hope  you 
will  have  taught  them  that  they  must 
not  be  afraid  to  tell  the  truth  as  some  of 
them  say  they  are.  We  have  nothing  but 
good  will  toward  those  young  people. 
Our  sole  and  only  purpose  is  to  help 
them  to  see  as  they  should  see,  to  live 
as  they  should  live,  and  to  serve  as  they 
should  serve;  and  may  God  bless  us  all 
with  the  power  to  so  impress  these  young 
people  with  the  truth  of  these  grand 
and  glorious  teachings,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 


12 

Friday,  October  10 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Gor- 
don B.  Hinckley,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  dear  brethren  and 
sisters: 

I  seek  inspiration  of  the  Lord  at  this 
time. 

During  the  past  six  months  Sister 
Hinckley  and  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  participating  in  the  dedication  of 
the  New  Zealand  and  London  temples. 
If  I  may,  I  should  like  to  make  some 
observations  out  of  the  experiences  of 
those  occasions  and  comment  with  ap- 
preciation on  five  great  qualities  or 
aspects  that  I  have  noted  in  this,  our 
Father's  work:  (1)  its  breadth;  (2)  its 
depth;  (3)  the  devotion  of  its  advo- 
cates; (4)  the  effect  of  their  teaching; 
(5)  the  strength  of  its  leadership. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  the  breadth  of  this  kingdom.  My 
testimony  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
has  been  strengthened  by  the  manner 
in  which  this  work  has  spread  over  the 
earth.  I  think  of  the  statement  made 
by  Moroni  in  1823  to  an  unknown  farm 
boy  in  western  New  York  that  his 
"name  should  be  had  for  good  and 
evil  among  all  nations,  kindreds,  and 
tongues."  (Joseph  Smith  2:33.)  I  think 
of  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
in  the  loneliness  of  Liberty  Jail:  "The 
ends  of  the  earth  shall  inquire  after 
thy  name,  and  fools  shall  have  thee  in 
derision,  and  hell  shall  rage  against 
thee; 

"While  the  pure  in  heart,  and  the 
wise,  and  the  noble,  and  the  virtuous, 
shall  seek  counsel,  and  authority,  and 
blessings  constantly  from  under  thy 
hand."  (D  &  C  122:1-2.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  wit- 
nessed the  fulfilment  of  these  marvelous 
promises.  In  the  temples  in  Europe  I 
have  seen  the  people  of  Finland, 
Sweden,  and  Norway,  of  Denmark, 
Belgium,  and  Holland,  of  Germany, 
Austria,  France,  and  England  and  even 
from  South  Africa — pure  in  heart,  noble, 
virtuous  men  and  women  of  those  lands 


seeking  blessings  under  the  authority 
which  came  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  In  New  Zealand  I  have  seen  the 
people  of  that  land,  of  Australia,  Tas- 
mania, Samoa,  Tonga,  Raratonga,  Fiji, 
and  Tahiti,  with  the  smile  of  truth  upon 
their  faces  as  they  sought  blessings  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord,  each  in  his  own 
tongue  testifying  of  this  great  latter-day 
work. 

I  marvel  at,  and  am  grateful,  for  the 
breadth  of  the  kingdom,  its  spread  over 
the  world,  and  I  know  that  the  end  is 
not  yet — that  this  stone  which  was  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  as 
the  prophet  foretold,  shall  roll  forth  and 
fill  the  earth,  touching  the  hearts  and 
lives  of  the  virtuous  and  the  wise  and 
the  pure  in  heart,  wherever  it  is  taught — 
for  it  is  the  kingdom  of  our  God. 

Secondly,  as  I  am  grateful  for  the 
breadth  of  the  kingdom,  I  am  likewise 
grateful  for  the  depth  of  its  teaching. 
To  spread  laterally  is  one  thing.  To 
grow  in  "the  third  dimension  of  reli- 
gion," as  one  writer  put  it,  is  another. 

I  think  we  witnessed  in  these  temples 
that  third  dimension.  I  shall  never 
forget  the  testimony  of  a  young  man 
who  had  come  from  Perth  on  the  west 
coast  of  Australia.  He  and  his  wife 
and  children  had  traveled  across  Aus- 
tralia, a  distance  approximately  as  great 
as  from  San  Francisco  to  New  York, 
and  then  across  the  Tasman  Sea  to 
New  Zealand.  He  said  they  had  had 
to  sell  their  furniture,  their  car,  their 
dishes,  and  many  other  of  their  prized 
possessions,  but,  he  said,  as  he  looked 
at  his  wife  and  their  lovely  children, 
he  knew  these  were  more  precious  than 
car,  furniture,  or  china.  By  hard  work 
and  careful  saving  he  could  replace 
his  worldly  goods,  but  he  could  never 
afford  to  lose  those  he  loved. 

And  so  they  had  come,  with  a  sus- 
taining conviction  in  their  hearts  that 
life,  love,  and  family  may  all  be  eternal 
under  the  plan  of  the  Lord.    And  as 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


13 


they  kneeled  about  the  altar  of  the 
temple  and  were  bound  together  under 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  in 
an  imperishable  relationship,  one 
glimpsed  the  great,  eternal  purposes  of 
God — the  everlasting  verities  that  tran- 
scend in  beauty  and  satisfaction  the 
thin  values  by  which  most  men  gauge 
their  lives. 

Inherent  in  the  events  of  that  day  in 
the  temple — in  the  instruction  given  in 
the  endowment,  in  the  covenants  made, 
in  the  ordinances  performed — were  an- 
swers to  the  great  eternal  questions  of 
where  we  come  from,  why  we  are  here, 
and  where  we  are  going — of  the  pur- 
pose of  life  under  the  plan  of  our 
Creator.  These  are  the  things  which 
give  depth  and  meaning,  a  third  dimen- 
sion to  our  faith,  for  which  I  feel  deeply 
grateful  this  day. 

Thirdly,  our  experiences  of  the  past 
six  months  have  given  me  a  new  appre- 
ciation for  the  devotion  of  the  advo- 
cates of  this  cause,  our  missionaries. 
I  have  come  to  a  renewed  sense  of 
gratitude  for  the  sacrifices  of  those  who 
laid  the  foundations  of  this  great  work. 

While  in  England  I  spent  a  few 
hours  in  Preston,  my  first  field  of  labor 
as  a  missionary  twenty-five  years  ago. 
It  was  in  this  city  that  missionaries 
first  preached  the  gospel  in  Europe  in 
1837.  As  we  moved  along  those  old 
cobbled  streets  and  flagstone  walks,  I 
thought  of  those  seven  men  of  121 
years  ago — strangers  in  a  strange  land, 
walking  in  poverty,  but  with  a  great 
conviction  and  a  great  enthusiasm. 

We  stood  beside  Vauxhall  Chapel 
where  they  first  spoke,  beside  the  River 
Ribble  where  they  first  baptized,  on  the 
site  of  the  old  Cockpit  where  they  bore 
testimony.  In  spite  of  bitter  opposition, 
in  spite  of  mobbings,  arrests,  and  every 
manner  of  persecution,  they  went  for- 
ward, garnering  souls  in  a  harvest  that 
will  go  on  forever  as  the  posterity  of 
their  converts  increase  in  number. 

And  as  they  sacrificed  and  labored,  so 
labor  their  successors.  We  met  more 
than  five  hundred  missionaries  of  Eu- 
rope. One  cannot  witness  these  young 
men  and  women  at  work  without  mar- 
veling at  their  devotion.  One  cannot 
see  the  maturity  that  has  come  into 
their  lives  without  recognizing  the  in- 
spiration of  this  great  program.  One 


cannot  hear  their  testimonies  without 
sensing  the  tremendous  power  of  truth. 
The  Lord  bless  them  for  their  wonder- 
ful devotion  and  for  their  wonderful 
faith.   You  can  be  proud  of  them. 

Fourthly,  I  am  grateful  for  the  effect 
of  their  teachings.  The  Lord  has  de- 
clared: ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 
You  need  not  wait  for  the  life  beyond 
to  see  the  accomplishment  of  that  pur- 
pose. You  may  witness  that  process 
every  day  in  the  mission  field.  The 
revelation  declares  that  "That  which  is 
of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth 
light,  and  continueth  in  God,  receiveth 
more  light;  and  that  light  groweth 
brighter  and  brighter  until  the  perfect 
day."  (D  &  C  50:24.) 

That  sublime  principle  of  growth 
was  evident  in  the  lives  of  those  who 
came  to  these  temples.  Whether  they 
were  brown-skinned  Maoris,  Samoans, 
or  Tongans,  or  fair-skinned  Europeans, 
they  seemed  to  have  a  quality  indefin- 
able and  wonderful.  Perhaps  it  was  a 
certain  kind  of  cleanliness — no  more 
cigarets,  no  more  liquor,  no  more  tea. 
Perhaps  it  was  the  company  they  kept — 
the  kind  of  company  one  ought  to  find 
in  the  Church.  Perhaps  it  was  their 
knowledge  of  the  gospel,  their  assur- 
ance concerning  the  purpose  of  life.  In 
any  event,  it  was  there,  and  it  was  in- 
spiring. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  power  of  the 
gospel  in  the  hearts  and  lives  of  men 
and  women,  and  I  never  saw  that  power 
more  evident  than  when  the  Saints 
came  to  the  house  of  the  Lord. 

Finally,  there  came  out  of  these  expe- 
riences an  increased  gratitude  for  our 
leader  and  for  a  conviction  of  his  di- 
vine appointment. 

A  short  time  ago  while  doing  some 
research  in  the  missionary  records  of 
the  Church,  I  came  across  the  appraisal 
made  by  Elder  David  O.  McKay's  mis- 
sion president  when  he  completed  his 
first  mission  in  the  British  Isles.  That 
appraisal  reads  as  follows: 

"As  a  speaker:  Good. 

"As  a  writer:  Good. 

"As  a  presiding  officer:  Very  good. 

"Has  he  a  good  knowledge  of  the 
gospel?  Yes. 

"Has  he  been  energetic?  Very. 


14 

Friday,  October  10 

"Is  he  discreet  and  does  he  carry  a 
good  influence?  Yes  sirl 

"Remarks:  None  better  in  the  mis- 
sion." 

That  was  written  in  1899. 

As  I  read  that  I  thought  of  another 
David,  the  son  of  Jesse,  who  was  or- 
dained to  become  the  leader  of  Israel. 
And  I  thought  of  the  solid  consistency 
of  President  McKay's  life,  from  the  time 
he  first  labored  in  the  British  Isles  as 
a  young  man,  through  the  sixty  years 
that  passed  prior  to  his  return  to  dedi- 
cate the  House  of  the  Lord  in  this  same 
land. 

The  affection  in  which  he  is  held, 
his  unfailing  kindness  and  considera- 
tion, his  ease  in  meeting  every  situation, 
the  fruits  of  his  ministry,  all  attest  to 
his  prophetic  calling. 

On  his  arrival  at  the  New  Zealand 
Temple  he  was  given  a  great  welcoming 
festival.  As  he  walked  through  the 
crowd,  elderly  men  and  women,  who 
first  had  met  him  in  the  islands  in  1921, 
wept  at  the  return  of  their  apostle- 
prophet. 

In  London  we  watched  him  face  with 
ease  a  battery  of  newspaper  and  tele- 
vision men  and  bear  testimony  to  them. 
In  both  temples  we  heard  him  give 
counsel  that  was  inspiring  and  offer 
prayers  of  dedication  that  were  solemn 
and  beautiful  and  moving. 

In  eleven  languages  today  the  worthy 
of  the  Church  are  enjoying  the  blessings 
of  the  temple  because  of  the  inspira- 
tion that  has  come  through  him.  No 
one  witnessing  the  joy  of  those  who  have 
received  these  blessings,  could  doubt 
the  inspiration  of  his  leadership. 

I  recall  a  little  widow  in  New  Zea- 
land, the  mother  of  seventeen  children. 
Her  husband  was  gone.  A  number  of 
her  children  were  gone.  As  she  knelt 
about  the  altar  with  the  beautiful  chil- 
dren who  were  left  to  her  and  received 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  assurance  that  all  that  she  had  lost 
would  also  be  hers,  she  wept.  And  all 
who  were  with  her  on  that  sacred  occa- 
sion in  that  dedicated  room,  wept  also. 

As  I  have  witnessed  these  and  many 
more  inspiring  situations  during  the 
past  six  months  in  these  widely  scat- 
tered lands,  I  have  felt  to  sing  with  that 
convert  from  the  steel  mills  of  Sheffield: 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

The  other  day  I  talked  with  a  mis- 
guided young  man  who  has  become 
bitter.  After  he  told  his  story,  I  said 
to  him:  "If  you  had  seen  what  I  have 
seen,  if  you  had  experienced  what  I 
have  experienced,  you  would  not  feel 
as  you  now  do." 

I  bear  you  witness  that  God's  king- 
dom is  here,  that  it  is  growing  in 
breadth  and  depth,  and  in  power  in  the 
lives  of  the  people,  and  that  those  whom 
he  has  placed  to  lead  it  are  his  chosen 
and  ordained  servants.  I  so  testify  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Assistant 
to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
addressed  us.  The  Choir  and  Congre- 
gation will  now  join  in  singing,  "High 
On  The  Mountain  Top,"  led  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  After  the 
singing  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  will 
address  us. 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to 
us.  Our  concluding  speaker  will  be 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Last  June  while  we  were  touring  one 
of  the  missions  of  the  Church  in  the 
eastern  part  of  the  United  States,  we 
stopped  one  morning  about  8  o'clock 
to   get    breakfast    at    a    cafe.  This 


cafe  was  located  just  a  half  block  from 
a  junior  high  school.  As  we  were  sitting 
there  eating  our  breakfast,  about  a  dozen 
of  these  junior  high  school  students 
came  into  the  cafe  and  played  some 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


15 


records  and  lounged  about  for  a  few 
minutes  waiting  for  school  to  start. 
They  were  on  their  way  to  school.  I 
noticed  that  every  one  of  these  boys 
and  girls,  who  seemed  to  be  about 
fourteen  years  of  age,  smoked  cigarets. 
I  was  struck  even  more  by  the  manner 
in  which  they  smoked  than  by  the  fact 
that  they  were  smoking;  such  a  bravado 
type  of  spirit — a  show-off — giving  every- 
body the  impression,  apparently,  that 
now  they  were  grown  up;  now  that 
they  could  smoke  cigarets  they  had 
"arrived." 

That  night  before  going  to  bed  I 
picked  up  a  magazine  in  the  hotel,  and 
on  the  back  page  of  the  magazine  was 
a  full  page  advertisement.  It  showed 
a  husky  looking  man,  apparently  in  the 
bloom  of  health,  smoking  a  cigaret. 
The  caption  across  the  ad  said:  "Where 

there's  a  man  there's  a  cigaret." 

I  do  not  give  the  name. 

As  I  read  that  ad  my  mind  flashed 
back  immediately  to  those  boys  and 
girls  in  the  cafe.  I  wondered  if  they 
had  read  that  ad.  I  wondered  if  they 
thought  that  "Where  there's  a  man 
there's  a  cigaret."  I  wondered  if  they 
got  the  idea  that  cigarets  make  the  man, 
that  cigarets  make  the  woman.  Then 
I  began  to  ask  myself  whether  these 
boys  and  girls  would  suppose  that  they 
would  be  lacking  in  manhood  or 
womanhood  if  they  did  not  smoke? 

Young  people,  do  you  believe  that  you 
would  lack  in  manhood  or  womanhood 
if  you  did  not  smoke?  Would  you  be- 
lieve, for  instance,  that  President  Eisen- 
hower is  any  less  a  man  because  on 
doctor's  orders  he  quit  smoking?  Would 
any  of  you  believe  that  President  Harry 
S  Truman  was  any  less  a  man  because 
he  refused  to  smoke?  Would  any  of 
you  believe  that  Franklin  Delano  Roose- 
velt was  any  less  a  man  because  he 
responded  to  the  advice  of  his.  doctors 
with  respect  to  smoking,  and  then  even 
later  tried  to  persuade  his  biographer, 
Harry  Hopkins,  to  do  likewise? 

Would  any  of  you  believe  that  Carl 
Sandburg,  the  Lincoln  biographer,  is 
any  less  a  man  because  he  will  not 
smoke?  Would  you  believe  it  of  Gover- 
nor Harriman  of  New  York,  or  Bernard 
Gimbel,  the  head  of  the  great  Gimbel 
Department  Store  in  New  York  City? 


Would  you  believe  that  Lyndon  B. 
Johnson,  majority  leader  of  the  United 
States  Senate,  is  any  less  a  man  because 
he  will  not  smoke?  Do  you  believe 
that  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  the  head  of  the 
FBI,  is  any  less  a  man  because  he 
neither  smokes  nor  drinks?  Or  a  man 
like  Charles  Boyer  of  the  movies,  or 
TV  personalities  such  as  Victor  Borge 
and  Pat  Boone?  Do  you  believe  the 
kind  of  advertising  that  is  put  out  by 
the  tobacco  people? 

The  United  States  Congress  made  an 
investigation  of  cigaret  advertising,  and 
after  their  investigation  they  published 
a  report  known  as  "False  and  Mislead- 
ing Advertising,"  having  to  do  with 
filter-tip  cigarets.  It  was  published  by 
a  committee  on  Government  Operations 
of  the  House  of  Representatives  of  the 
United  States  Congress  on  February  20, 
1958.  It  was  published  by  the  United 
States  government  in  the  Government 
Printing  House  and  paid  for  by  govern- 
ment money.  I  would  like  to  read  just 
an  excerpt  or  two  from  it.  The  Hon. 
Robert  T.  Secrest,  a  member  of  the 
Federal  Trade  Commission,  was  one  of 
the  men  who  gave  testimony  in  con- 
nection with  this  investigation,  and 
among  other  things  he  said  that  the 
Surgeon  General's  recent  statement  that 
"excessive  cigaret  smoking  is  one  of  the 
causative  factors  in  lung  cancer"  calls 
for  a  "new  approach"  by  the  commission 
in  its  regulation  of  cigaret  advertising. 
Then  the  report  goes  on  to  say  this: 

"The  cigaret  industry  has  done  a 
grave  disservice  to  the  smoking  public, 
initially,  blatantly,  and  more  recently, 
very  subtly,  publicizing  the  filter-tip 
smoke  as  a  health  protection.  .  .  . 

"Despite  repeated  private  and  even 
public  invitations  to  appear  before  the 
subcommittee,  the  tobacco  industry  re- 
fused all  such  invitations.  In  one  in- 
stance the  invitation  was  accepted  only 
to  be  declined  later  because  of  a  'pre- 
vious engagement,'  when  it  was  learned 
no  other  tobacco-company  official  would 
appear. 

"During  a  period  fraught  with  public 
concern  over  grave  health  implications 
of  cigaret  smoking,  business  responsi- 
bility and  even  decency  would  apparent- 
ly dictate  that  the  American  public  is 
entitled  to   an  accounting  from  the 


16 

Friday,  October  10 

cigaret  manufacturers.  It  is  indeed 
most  reprehensible  that  the  tobacco  in- 
dustry should  so  shirk  its  vast  responsi- 
bilities to  the  consumer  and  apparently 
conspire  to  boycott  the  hearings  of  a 
congressional  committee." 

I  am  sure  your  congressman  would 
send  you  a  copy  of  this  if  you  were  in- 
terested in  it.  It  is  Union  Calendar 
No.  539,  House  Report  No.  1372. 

Young  people,  in  the  face  of  things 
like  that,  do  you  believe  cigaret  adver- 
tising? Do  you  believe  that  cigarets 
make  the  man,  or  that  cigarets  make 
the  woman?  What  makes  a  man? 
What  makes  a  woman?  Is  it  the  cigaret 
or  the  cocktail,  or  is  it  the  clean  life, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  development  of  good  character,  faith 
in  God,  and  keeping  his  commandments? 

Young  people,  be  honest  with  your- 
selves. Answer  these  questions.  Be- 
lieve in  God.  Serve  him.  Uphold  the 
program  of  the  Church,  and  you  will 
live  wonderful,  happy  lives.  That  you 
may  do  this  is  my  earnest  prayer,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley 
of  this  Council  will  be  our  last  speaker 
this  morning. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed 
grateful  for  the  splendid  spirit  of  this 
conference  session  this  morning.  I  hope 
what  I  have  to  say  will  not  detract  from 
the  spirit  of  the  messages  given.  I 
would  like  to  touch  upon  a  few  things 
connected  with  the  New  Zealand  Tem- 
ple dedication  mentioned  by  Brother 
Hinckley. 

Since  the  last  general  conference  of 
the  Church  Sister  Stapley  and  I  have 
enjoyed  the  great  privilege  and  blessing 
of  accompanying  our  beloved  President 
David  O.  McKay,  Sister  McKay,  Elder 
and  Sister  Marion  G.  Romney  and 
others  to  New  Zealand  for  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  new  temple  in  that  faraway 
land.  Brother  Gordon  Hinckley  and 
his  wife  had  preceded  us  there  to  finalize 
the  preparation  for  the  dedication  and 
opening  of  the  temple  for  ordinance 
work.  He  mentioned  the  welcome  and 
reception  accorded  the  official  Church 
party  by  the  Polynesian  Saints.  It  was 
a  tremendous  tribute  and  demonstration 
of  love  and  affection  for  all  of  us,  but 
more  particularly  for  their  beloved 
President  and  Prophet,  "Tumuaki" 
David  O.  McKay. 

It  was  a  glorious  spectacle,  so  different, 
colorful  and  unique  that  the  sweet 
memory  of  the  occasion  will  remain 
forever.  Each  Polynesian  group,  in  na- 
tive costume,  entertained  with  pageantry, 
song,  and  dance  for  the  space  of  three 


and  a  half  hours.  I  believe  it  is  the 
only  time  in  the  history  of  the  world 
that  four  such  widely  scattered  Poly- 
nesian peoples  have  been  brought 
together  where  each  featured  its 
individual  native  entertainment  to  wel- 
come an  official  party.  Such  an 
assembly  of  mixed  talent  may  never 
happen  again,  for  it  isn't  likely  that 
another  similiar  event  of  such  impor- 
tance will  occur  to  bring  them  together. 

The  majority  of  the  Saints  of  the 
South  Pacific  attending  the  temple 
dedication  activities  did  so,  as  Brother 
Hinckley  has  indicated,  at  great  personal 
sacrifice.  Ever  since  the  building  of  a 
temple  was  announced  they  have  been 
saving  in  earnest  for  that  important  and 
historic  dedication  day.  To  them  it 
was  the  spiritual  opportunity  of  their 
lives,  the  fulfilment  of  their  prayers  and 
dreams.  It  would  be  difficult  for  the 
people  of  the  world,  not  knowing  the 
sacred  value  and  eternal  nature  of  tem- 
ple ordinances,  to  understand  why 
people  possess  such  strong  religious  be- 
liefs and  faith  that  would  cause  them 
not  only  to  save  money,  but  also  to  sell 
their  cars,  mortgage  furniture  and 
other  chattels  to  raise  sufficient  funds 
to  visit  a  temple.  To  those  who  do 
understand,  no  sacrifice  is  too  great  to 
achieve  the  greatest  blessings  of  their 
lives — the  holy  temple  endowment  with 
the  ordinances  and  sealings  that  bind 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


17 


husband  and  wife  and  families  together 
in  an  eternal  family  relationship  and 
companionship. 

In  visiting  with  this  mixed  group  of 
Saints  the  evidences  of  a  living  and 
motivating  faith  were  found  on  every 
hand.  Tears  of  happiness  flowed  freely 
down  the  cheeks  of  these  faithful  and 
worthy  people  as  the  significance  of 
these  eventful  days  unfolded  more 
clearly  to  their  understanding.  Each 
session  of  the  dedication  was  a  glorious 
spiritual  experience.  To  watch  the  faces 
of  the  Saints  was  a  reflection  of  the  joy 
and  happiness  they  felt. 

The  simple  and  trusting  faith  of  the 
Polynesian  Saints  was  reflected  in  the 
answer  of  Brother  Lafi  Toilupi  to  Presi- 
dent McKay's  query,  "Can  you  do  it?" 
when  he  asked  Brother  Toilupi  if  he 
could  translate  the  dedicatory  prayer 
from  English  into  the  Samoan  tongue. 
Brother  Toilupi  replied  sincerely  and 
humbly,  "I  can  do  it  if  you  will  bless 
me."  President  McKay  answered,  "I 
do  bless  you,"  and  the  translation  was 
accomplished  perfectly  regardless  of  the 
fact  the  limited  Samoan  language  does 
not  have  equivalent  words  correspond- 
ing in  meaning  to  the  English. 

The  New  Zealand  Temple,  situated 
on  a  prominence  overlooking  the  valley, 
with  its  remarkable  floodlighting  effects, 
stands  out  majestically  at  night  with  a 
brilliance  of  lighting  intensity  which 
can  be  seen  for  miles  around,  and  truly 
represents  "a  candle  of  the  Lord"  to 
reveal  light  and  truth  in  the  midst  of 
error  and  spiritual  darkness.  The  favor- 
able publicity  of  all  happenings  there, 
revealing  the  purpose  of  temples,  Church 
beliefs,  principles,  and  practices,  gave 
to  the  people  of  New  Zealand  and 
Australia  new  knowledge  and  gospel 
light  which  has  stimulated  a  tremen- 
dous spiritual  upsurge  to  the  work  of  the 
Church. 

My  soul  is  full  of  gratitude  for  the 
restored  gospel  of  Christ  and  the  blessed 
power  it  has  to  enrich  the  lives  of 
people.  I  bear  humble  testimony,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  the  gospel 
taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  the 
true  gospel  of  God's  kingdom  which  the 
Savior  testified  "shall  be  preached  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations; 


and  then  shall  the  end  come."  (Matt. 
24:14.) 

The  missionary  system  of  the  Church 
was  established  by  revelation  of  the 
Lord  to  fulfil  this  latter-day  obligation. 
He  declared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith: 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority  and 
the  authority  of  my  servants,  ...  O  in- 
habitants of  the  earth."  (D  &  C  1:4-6.) 

During  the  spring  and  summer  Sister 
Stapley  and  I  visited  three  Church  mis- 
sions: the  two  in  Australia,  and  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission.  I  per- 
sonally interviewed  over  350  young  mis- 
sionaries. I  pay  sincere  and  humble 
tribute  to  them  for  their  faithful  devo- 
tion to  a  great  cause.  I  know  many 
families  make  tremendous  financial 
sacrifices  to  support  their  missionary 
sons  and  daughters  while  away  from 
home  in  the  service  of  the  ministry. 
The  compensations,  however,  for  faith- 
ful and  devoted  service  are  rich  and 
rewarding.  Faith  is  increased;  testi- 
monies are  strengthened;  principles  of 
righteousness  and  truth  are  acquired 
which  build  into  the  missionary  funda- 
mental moral  and  spiritual  values  which 
upgrade  his  character  attainments  for 
successful  and  happy  living.  With  few 
exceptions,  the  more  than  5000  mission- 
aries now  serving  represent  the  Church 
honorably  and  effectively,  and  are  a 
great  credit  to  it.  Thousands  of  con- 
verts each  year  result  from  their  devoted 
service. 

Recently  a  mission  president  report- 
ing his  mission  made  this  significant 
statement:  "If  the  Church  were  not 
true,  the  5000  missionaries  representing 
it  would  have  proved  it  long  ago."  I 
have  often  thought  how  true  that  state- 
ment is.  Actuated  as  they  are  by  the 
same  spirit,  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
officiating  by  the  authority  of  the  true 
priesthood  of  God,  it  is  not  too  diffi- 
cult to  understand  the  truth  of  the  mis- 
sion president's  statement. 

The  tempo  of  the  proselyting  program 
has  stepped  up  in  Australia,  and  with 


18 

Friday,  October  10 

nineteen  new  lovely  buildings  to  meet 
and  worship  in  and  to  carry  forward 
the  full  Church  program,  prospects  for 
increased  conversions  are  constantly 
improving.  The  chapel-building  pro- 
gram alone  has  set  forward  the  work 
of  the  Church  many  years.  From  the 
beginning  of  construction  of  a  beautiful 
and  serviceable  chapel  in  one  small 
branch  to  the  time  of  dedication,  thirty- 
three  converts  were  baptized  and  twenty- 
five  passive  members  reactivated  who 
are  now  in  full  fellowship. 

In  two  widely  separated  towns  of  the 
Australian  Mission  where  lovely  build- 
ings are  completed  and  in  service,  the 
mayors  attended  the  appointed  meet- 
ings to  bid  us  welcome.  One,  ac- 
quainted with  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
told  how  he  had  been  prevailed  upon 
to  give  up  the  habit  of  tobacco  and  of 
the  personal  satisfaction  he  experienced 
in  doing  so.  He  complimented  the 
Church  and  its  people  for  building  such 
a  lovely  edifice  in  which  to  worship 
and  to  foster  cultural  activities  for  the 
wholesome  and  broad  enrichment  of 
their  lives.  He  also  pledged  to  them 
the  full  support  of  his  office  and  the 
town  council  he  represented.  It  was 
a  beautiful  tribute  and  a  marvelous 
pledge  of  co-operation.  The  second 
mayor  also  gave  like  praise  and  com- 
mendation and  declared  that  the  Church 
building  was  most  attractive  and  invit- 
ing, which  added  spiritual  strength  and 
prestige  to  their  progressive  city.  He 
expressed  the  hope  that  the  work  of  the 
Church  would  prosper  there,  and  wished 
the  people  every  success  in  their  re- 
ligious program.  He  promised,  in  con- 
clusion, to  return  again.  He  made  a  pro- 
found observation  by  saying  that  to 
many  people  churches  were  like  ele- 
vators—they could  just  get  on  at  any 
time  and  be  taken  to  heaven  without 
the  good  life  and  good  works  to  their 
credit.  He  firmly  believed  faith  and 
works  go  together. 

At  the  dedication  of  the  New  Zea- 
land Church  College,  the  Prime  Min- 
ister of  New  Zealand  gave  an  interesting 
and  challenging  talk  most  favorable 
to  the  Church  and  its  program  to  serve 
and  bless  people.  He  took  exception 
to  the  organized  unfriendly  group  op- 
posing the  Church  efforts  there,  who 
questioned    our    right    to  Christian 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

status,  and  who  also  were  guilty  of 
maligning  the  integrity  of  the  Church 
leaders  in  Zion.  He  called  attention 
to  a  few  of  our  brethren  who  were  or 
are  now  in  high  United  States  govern- 
ment positions,  whom  he  was  privileged 
to  know  personally.  Some  had  be- 
friended and  supported  him,  which 
permitted  the  Prime  Minister  to  become 
acquainted  with  their  qualities  of  good- 
ness and  sound  political  integrity  and 
leadership.  He  made  particular  refer- 
ence to  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  with 
praise  for  his  integrity  and  excellent 
government  service.  He  indicated  favor- 
ableness  to  religious  education  in  the 
schools  of  New  Zealand,  and  praised 
the  character  and  teachings  of  Jesus 
which  he  encouraged  all  to  accept  and 
follow. 

Such  recognition  and  unsolicited 
favorable  contributions  from  outstand- 
ing leaders  not  of  our  faith  are  helpful 
to  the  work.  Their  comments  call  at- 
tention to  a  letter  I  received  from  a 
non-member  friend  of  mine  while  we 
were  yet  in  New  Zealand,  who  closed 
by  saying,  "May  the  propagation  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  faith  ever  spread 
over  the  world."  Such  is  the  encourage- 
ment of  those  who  know  us  best. 

The  faraway  converts  of  New  Zea- 
land and  Australia — and  I  listened  to 
many — teach  and  preach  the  same 
truths,  principles,  and  gospel  ordi- 
nances as  orthodox  as  we  do  here.  Their 
testimonies  are  fervent,  spiritual,  and 
convincing.  To  associate  with  and  lis- 
ten to  them,  one  would  think  and  feel 
as  if  he  were  in  the  congregations 
of  the  Saints  at  home.  Truly,  all  who 
belong  to  this  Church  and  yield  obedi- 
ence to  its  teachings  are  actuated  by  the 
same  spirit,  the  Holy  Ghost,  whose 
function  it  is  to  guide  into  all  truth,  to 
bear  witness  of  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
and  to  keep  the  Saints  of  God  united 
wherever  they  are.  What  a  blessing  it 
is  to  be  guided  by  a  power  which  pre- 
vents misunderstandings  and  divisions 
among  the  true  followers  of  Christ. 

I  would  like  to  share  with  you  briefly 
three  choice  experiences  resulting  from 
these  mission  tours.  A  good  woman, 
called  upon  by  the  missionaries  while 
tracting  in  her  neighborhood,  advised 
them  that  her  niece  had  joined  the 
Church  eight  months  previously.  "Your 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


19 


Church  has  done  so  much  for  her," 
she  said,  and  then  asked,  "Can  you  do 
the  same  for  me?" 

A  woman  investigator,  after  a  few 
home  visits  from  the  missionaries,  said 
to  her  husband,  "The  elders  take  some- 
thing with  them  when  they  leave  our 
home;  when  they  return  that  something 
is  here."  They  both  recognized  that 
"something"  present  when  attending 
Church  services  held  by  the  elders. 
"What  is  it?"  this  good  woman  asked. 
The  answer  came  to  her  and  she  ex- 
claimed, "The  priesthood  of  God,"  to 
which  her  husband  agreed. 

A  faithful  sister,  eighty-nine  years 
of  age  but  young  in  spirit,  related  to 
me  this  testimony  and  experience.  As  a 
young  woman,  her  father  informed  her 
a  new  scripture  was  to  come,  and  the 
Church  presenting  it  would  be  true. 
She  was  greatly  impressed  by  this  state- 
ment and  remembered  it.  Her  father 
passed  away,  and  time  moved  on,  but 
still  the  new  scripture  had  not  come  to 
her  attention.  Some  years  later  two 
missionaries  knocked  at  her  door.  When 
she  received  them  they  introduced  to 
her  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  they 
advised  was  a  new  scripture  revealed  by 
God.  She  immediately  recalled  the 
words  of  her  father.  She  had  her  wit- 
ness. She  said  to  me,  "I  didn't  need  the 
elders  to  teach  me  the  gospel.  I  knew 
they  represented  the  true  Church."  She 
was  quickly  converted  and  baptized  by 
them.  For  over  fifty  years  this  good 
sister  has  remained  a  faithful  and  de- 
voted member.  Her  home  has  been, 
and  is  now,  a  rallying  point  for  mis- 
sionary work.  The  evening  we  spent 
with  her  was  enriched  by  her  testimony 
and  charm  of  character. 

How  wonderful  it  is,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  the  true  gospel  of  our  Lord 
can  be  understood  by  the  simple,  yet  is 
so  profound  it  can  challenge  the  most 
learned  thinker  with  its  depths  of 
knowledge  and  wisdom.  The  gospel 
has  the  power  to  bring  people  together 
in  love  and  understanding  and  give 
purpose  and  wise  direction  to  life.  Our 
message  to  the  world  is  one  of  faith 
in  God  and  his  beloved  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior  and  Redeemer.  It 
is  a  message  of  brotherhood,  hope,  peace, 
and  salvation,  and  is  therefore  of  great 


importance  and  value  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue,  and  people.  We  possess 
the  truth,  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ  with  all  its  glorious  principles, 
high  moral  standards  of  conduct,  ideals 
of  noble  character,  and  all  saving  ordi- 
nances for  the  joy  and  eternal  happiness 
of  mankind. 

We  cordially  invite  all  people  to  in- 
vestigate the  restored  Church  of  Christ, 
and  accept  its  teachings  and  way  of 
life  as  revealed  for  their  salvation  and 
glory.  President  Richards  made  an  ex- 
cellent appeal  in  his  opening  address 
here  this  morning.  I  testify,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  that  God  has  established  his 
work  for  the  last  time  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  and  preparations  are  now 
going  forward  for  the  second  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Tesus  Christ. 

God  help  us,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  be  true  to  our  obligations  as  members 
of  his  kingdom,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles  has  just 
addressed  us. 

A  practical  demonstration  of  the  vi- 
tality of  the  gospel  in  its  affecting 
activity,  producing  happiness,  in  the 
lives  of  individuals  and  families  we 
have  this  morning  in  the  presence  of 
these  lovely  women,  our  Singing  Moth- 
ers from  California.  They  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "Grant  Me,  Dear  Lord, 
Deep  Peace  of  Mind,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Mark  Junius  Sorensen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Danish  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 
The  Singing  Mothers  will  be  with  us 
again  this  afternoon. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  as  a  closing  number,  "Grant  Me, 
Dear  Lord,  Deep  Peace  of  Mind." 

Elder  Mark  Junius  Sorensen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Danish  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  October  10.  President  David 
O.  McKay  presided  and  conducted  the 
meeting. 

The  musical  numbers  for  this  session 
were  furnished  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  of  the  three  Southern 
California  regions,  with  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting.  Roy  M. 
Darley,  Assistant  Tabernacle  Organist, 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  following  wire  has  been  received 
from  President  Casper  W.  Merrill  of 
the  West  Central  States  Mission  at 
Billings,  Montana:  "Conference  coming 
in  good  over  KOOK-TV.  Missionaries 
are  in  homes  of  investigators  receiving 
the  message.  President  Richards'  open- 
ing address  a  great  asset  to  our  work. 
We  all  join  in  sending  our  love." 

We  are  favored  this  afternoon  by  the 
presence  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  three  Southern  Cali- 
fornia regions,  with  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person Madsen  conducting,  and  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  render- 
ing, "How  Gentle  God's  Commands." 


The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  LeRoy  H.  Duncan,  formerly  pres- 
ident of  the  South  African  Mission. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  hymn,  "How  Gentle  God's 
Commands." 

Elder  LeRoy  H.  Duncan,  formerly 
president  of  the  South  African  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  LeRoy  H.  Duncan,  formerly 
president  of  the  South  African  Mission, 
has  just  offered  the  invocation.  The 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "The  Voice  In  The  Wil- 
derness," conducted  by  Sister  Madsen, 
following  which  President  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith  will  speak  to  us. 

"The  Voice  In  The  Wilderness"  was 
sung  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  Chorus. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


This  morning  we  listened  to  a  won- 
derful discourse  addressed  to  friends 
and  businessmen,  prominent  individuals 
outside  of  the  Church,  which  I  think 
was  most  timely,  but  I  wish  to  address 
my  remarks  to  the  members  of  the 
Church,  and  more  especially  to  those 
who  are  wayward  and  indifferent,  and 
who  do  not  seem  to  realize  the  value 
of  their  membership.  I  would  like  to 
read  to  you  a  covenant  which  is  taken 
by  each  individual  who  enters  the 
waters  of  baptism. 


"And  again,  by  way  of  commandment 
to  the  church  concerning  the  manner 
of  baptism — All  those  who  humble 
themselves  before  God,  and  desire  to 
be  baptized,  and  come  forth  with  broken 
hearts  and  contrite  spirits,  and  witness 
before  the  church  that  they  have  truly 
repented  of  all  their  sins,  and  are  will- 
ing to  take  upon  them  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  having  a  determination 
to  serve  him  to  the  end,  and  truly  mani- 
fest by  their  works  that  they  have  re- 
ceived of  the  Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

remission  of  their  sins,  shall  be  received 
by  baptism  into  his  church."  (D  &  C 
20:37.) 

Now,  baptism  into  the  Church  is  not 
enough  to  save  us.  It  is  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  that  is  true,  but  there  is 
another  baptism  which  is  just  as  essen- 
tial, and  that  is  the  baptism  of  the  spirit, 
or  the  bestowal  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  After  we  are  baptized,  we  are 
confirmed.  What  is  that  confirmation 
for?  To  make  us  companions  with  the 
Holy  Ghost;  to  have  the  privilege  of 
the  guidance  of  the  third  member  of  the 
Godhead — companionship,  that  our 
minds  might  be  enlightened,  that  we 
might  be  quickened  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  seek  for  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing concerning  all  that  pertains  to  our 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Now  in  this  same  revelation  from 
which  I  read,  the  Lord  has  also  said: 

"And  we  know  that  justification 
through  the  grace  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  just  and  true; 

"And  we  know  also,  that  sanctification 
through  the  grace  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  just  and  true,  to 
all  those  who  love  and  serve  God  with 
all  their  mights,  minds,  and  strength. 

"But  there  is  a  possibility  that  man 
may  fall  from  grace  and  depart  from 
the  living  God; 

"Therefore  let  the  church  take  heed 
and  pray  always,  lest  they  fall  into 
temptation; 

"Yea,  and  even  let  those  who  are 
sanctified  take  heed  also."  (Ibid.,  20:30- 
34.) 

Baptism  and  confirmation  into  the 
Church  do  not  necessarily  insure  our 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  They 
do,  provided  we  are  true  and  faithful 
to  every  covenant  and  obligation  re- 
quired of  us  in  the  commandments  of 
our  Eternal  Father.  It  is  he  who  en- 
dures to  the  end  that  will  be  saved,  and 
there  is  a  danger  that  confronts  us 
through  the  temptations  of  the  adver- 
sary if  we  yield  to  those  temptations 
that  we  may  lose  it  all.  The  greatest 
punishment  that  can  come  to  any  indi- 
vidual in  this  world  is  punishment  that 
will  come  to  those  who  have  received 
the  light  and  truth  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  who  have  passed  through 
the  waters  of  baptism,  who  have  hands 
laid  upon  their  heads  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  then  turn  away 


FIELDING  SMITH  21 

from  the  truth,  for  the  Lord  will  not 
hold  them  guiltless. 

I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  no 
man  can  become  a  Son  of  Perdition 
until  he  has  known  the  light.  Those 
who  have  never  received  the  light  are 
not  to  become  Sons  of  Perdition.  They 
will  be  punished  if  they  rebel  against 
God.  They  will  have  to  pay  the  price 
of  their  sinning,  but  it  is  only  those 
who  have  the  light  through  the  priest- 
hood and  through  the  power  of  God 
and  through  their  membership  in  the 
Church  who  will  be  banished  forever 
from  his  influence  into  outer  darkness 
to  dwell  with  the  devil  and  his  angels. 
That  is  a  punishment  that  will  not  come 
to  those  who  have  never  known  the 
truth.  Bad  as  they  may  suffer,  and 
awful  as  their  punishment  may  be,  they 
are  not  among  that  group  which  is  to 
suffer  the  eternal  death  and  banish- 
ment from  all  influence  concerning  the 
power  of  God. 

Now,  I  say  I  want  to  talk  to  those 
who  are  indifferent  and  a  little  way- 
ward sometimes,  those  who  do  not 
appreciate  the  privileges  and  the  op- 
portunities that  are  given  unto  them  to 
serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments. 
If  they  are  not  here,  I  hope  they  are 
listening  to  what  is  going  on  in  this 
building  today.  They  do  not  come  to 
the  conferences — at  least,  not  very  many 
of  them.  But  after  receiving  the  light 
and  the  knowledge  and  the  information 
which  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  can  give, 
it  is  an  awful  thing  to  turn  away. 

However,  it  is  my  judgment  that  there 
are  many  members  of  this  Church  who 
have  been  baptized  for  the  remission 
of  their  sins,  who  have  had  hands  laid 
upon  their  heads  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  who  have  never  received 
that  gift,  that  is,  the  manifestations  of  it. 
Why?  Because  they  have  never  put 
themselves  in  order  to  receive  these 
manifestations.  They  have  never  hum- 
bled themselves.  They  have  never 
taken  the  steps  that  would  prepare  them 
for  the  companionship  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Therefore  they  go  through  life 
without  that  knowledge,  and  they  have 
not  the  understanding.  Therefore  when 
those  cunning  and  crafty  in  their  deceit 
come  to  them,  they  disturb  them  in 
their  faith,  if  they  have  faith  left.  They 
criticize  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 


22 

Friday,  October  10 

They  criticize  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  and  these  weak  members  do 
not  have  understanding  enough,  infor- 
mation enough,  and  enough  of  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
resist  the  false  doctrines  and  teachings 
of  those  who  come  to  them,  the  wolves 
in  sheep's  clothing,  and  they  listen  to 
them,  and  think  that  perhaps  after  all 
they  have  made  a  mistake,  and  first 
thing  you  know  they  find  their  way  out 
of  the  Church,  because  they  do  not 
have  understanding. 

I  get  letters  frequently  from  people, 
members  of  this  Church,  who  have  been 
disturbed  principally  by  two  organiza- 
tions which  seem  to  have  dedicated  their 
lives  to  the  destruction  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
These  people  go  into  the  homes  of  our 
weak  members,  disturb  them  in  their 
faith,  get  them  all  riled  up,  and  they 
do  not  know  whether  they  did  the  right 
thing  when  they  were  baptized  or 
whether  they  did  not;  but  if  they  had 
lived  as  they  should  and  had  received 
the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  they 
would  not  be  moved.  They  would  not 
be  influenced  by  the  false  teachings  and 
false  statements  regarding  our  doctrines 
that  these  people  present  to  them. 

The  gospel  is  simple.  There  is  noth- 
ing difficult  about  it.  There  are  mys- 
teries, no  doubt.  We  do  not  need  to 
bother  about  the  mysteries,  but  the 
simple  things  pertaining  to  our  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  we  can  understand. 

Now  let  me  refer  to  another  passage 
of  scripture. 

"But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things 
to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  liberally;  and 
that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you 
even  so  I  would  that  ye  should  do  in 
all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly 
before  me,  considering  the  end  of  your 
salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer 
and  thanksgiving,  that  ye  may  not  be 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of 
devils,  or  the  commandments  of  men; 
for  some  are  of  men,  and  others  of 
devils."  (Ibid.,  46:7.) 

So  the  Lord  has  given  us  a  warning. 

"Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  de- 
ceived; and  that  ye  may  not  be  deceived 
seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always 
remembering  for  what  they  are  given; 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  are 
given  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  love 
me  and  keep  all  my  commandments, 
and  him  that  seeketh  so  to  do;  that  all 
may  be  benefited  that  seek  or  that  ask 
of  me,  that  ask  and  not  for  a  sign  that 
they  may  consume  it  upon  their  lusts. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I 
would  that  ye  should  always  remember, 
and  always  retain  in  your  minds  what 
those  gifts  are,  that  are  given  unto  the 
church."  (Ibid.,  46:8-10.) 

Now  the  Lord  would  give  us  gifts. 
He  will  quicken  our  minds.  He  will 
give  us  knowledge  that  will  clear  up  all 
difficulties,  and  put  us  in  harmony 
with  the  commandments  that  he  has 
given  us,  and  with  a  knowledge  that 
will  be  so  deeply  rooted  in  our  souls 
that  the  knowledge  can  never  be  rooted 
out,  if  we  will  just  seek  for  the  light 
and  the  truth  and  the  understanding 
which  is  promised  to  us,  and  which  we 
can  receive  if  we  will  only  be  true  and 
faithful  to  every  covenant  and  obliga- 
tion pertaining  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  Lord  bless  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  We  will  now 
hear  from  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Pa- 
triarch to  the  Church.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Alma  Sonne. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
be  with  me,  and  that  I  may  have  his 
inspiration  as  has  been  given  to  others 
in  this  conference. 

I  noticed  in  an  article  on  the  editorial 
page  of  the  News  last  evening,  calling 


our  attention  to  the  troubled  world  we 
are  in.  Have  you  had  any  problems? 
Have  you  had  any  difficulties?  Have 
you  had  any  trials?  Have  you  ever 
been  discouraged?  Have  you  had  any 
heartaches?    Have  you  ever  felt  that 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


23 


disaster  had  fallen  upon  you  and  com- 
pletely submerged  you?  Have  you  been 
tempted  to  cry  out,  "Why  this  to  me?" 
You  can  always  find  someone  in  worse 
straits  than  you. 

I  talked  to  a  middle-aged  woman  who 
was  blind.  I  have  met  others  who  were 
converts  to  the  Church  who  were  blind 
or  crippled  or  mute;  others  who  have 
physical  difficulties  and  handicaps  in 
this  life.  Even  though  this  woman  was 
blind  from  birth,  she  was  a  convert  to 
the  Church.  I  asked  her  how  she  be- 
came a  member  of  the  Church,  and 
she  explained  how,  through  the  facili- 
ties the  missionaries  had  made  avail- 
able to  her  of  Braille  and  "talking 
books,"  she  had  received  a  knowledge 
of  the  gospel,  and  through  her  study, 
through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  a  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel  had  come  to  her. 

I  asked  her  about  her  family.  She 
mentioned  she  had  two  sisters  who  had 
their  sight,  but  she  said,  "They  do  not 
see."  Even  though  they  had  the  sight 
of  their  eyes  they  did  not  understand 
the  gospel.  They  could  not  see  it.  She 
bore  testimony  to  me  that  she  would 
rather  be  as  she  was  and  have  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  than  to  trade  places 
with  either  of  her  sisters  who  did  not 
have  the  gospel.   It  really  thrilled  me. 

God  gives  us  darkness  to  see  into  the 
distance.  He  gives  us  light  to  see  close 
up.  The  stars  shine  in  the  daylight  as 
much  as  they  do  at  night,  yet  we  need 
the  darkness  in  which  to  see  the  stars. 
We  can  see  into  the  distance,  as  this 
blind  woman  did,  through  the  Spirit 
even  farther  than  we  can  see  with  our 
natural  eyes.  This  life  is  full  of  con- 
trasts. We  have  pleasure  and  pain, 
good  and  evil,  virtue  and  vice.  One 
purpose  of  this  life  is  to  be  tried  and 
tested,  and  as  some  have  said,  they 
wondered  why  they  did  not  receive  the 
gospel  when  they  were  younger.  They 
had  to  wait  until  they  were  thirty,  or 
forty,  or  fifty  years  old,  and  some  even 
older,  before  they  heard  and  accepted 
the  gospel.  Probably  part  of  the  testing 
purpose  of  this  life  was  that  they  were 
so  born  into  the  world  that  they  would 
be  tried  and  tested  to  see  whether  they 
would  have  the  faith  under  those  cir- 
cumstances to  accept  the  gospel  when 
it  came  to  them. 

So,  this  life  is  a  testing  period  that 


man  may  learn  obedience  by  his  own 
experience.  Through  modem  revelation 
the  Lord  tells  us,  ".  .  .  it  must  needs  be 
that  the  devil  should  tempt  the  children 
of  men,  or  they  could  not  be  agents 
unto  themselves;  for  if  they  never  should 
have  bitter  they  could  not  know  the 
sweet—"  (D  &  C  29:39.)  Again  the 
Lord  said: 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I 
should  command  in  all  things;  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the  same 
is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant; 
wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxious- 
ly engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring 
to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in 
nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until 
he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a  com- 
mandment with  doubtful  heart,  and 
keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same 
is  damned.  (Ibid.,  58:26-29.) 

The  Lord  expects  us  to  use  our  free 
agency.  That  is  the  reason  we  have 
free  agency.  The  Lord  also  extends  his 
help  in  answer  to  our  prayers.  "We  ask 
for  strength,  and  God  gives  us  difficul- 
ties to  make  us  strong.  We  plead  for 
wisdom,  and  God  sends  us  problems, 
the  solution  of  which  develops  wisdom. 
We  plead  for  prosperity,  and  God  gives 
us  brawn  and  brains  to  work.  We  plead 
for  courage,  and  God  gives  us  dangers 
to  overcome.  We  ask  for  favors,  and 
God  gives  us  opportunities." 

This  is  a  tempering  process  of  life, 
that  we  may  become  stronger  and 
eventually  attain  perfection.  It  is  much 
the  same  as  we  do  to  temper  steel.  There 
are  several  processes  of  tempering  steel. 
One  is  to  take  a  bar  of  steel,  put  it  into 
a  process  of  hammering  and  beating, 
and  the  more  it  is  pounded  and  ham- 
mered and  beaten,  the  tougher  the 
steel  gets.  This  is  cold  rolled  steel. 
We  do  not  change  the  content  of  the 
steel.  After  this  process  it  has  the  same 
content  it  had  before,  but  through  the 
process  of  a  good  beating  it  becomes 
tougher,  stronger,  more  valuable,  and 
more  endurable. 

Another  process  is  that  of  heat  treat- 
ment. We  can  take  a  bar  of  steel  and 


24 

Friday,  October  10 

cut  it  in  two,  one  part  of  it  we  put 
through  a  heat  treatment  where  it  is 
heated  to  a  terrifically  high  degree  of 
temperature  and  held  through  a  given 
length  of  time,  and  then  quickly 
plunged  into  a  solution  of  brine,  cold 
water,  oil,  or  some  other  method  of 
quenching — an  extreme  reverse  again 
from  the  heat  to  the  cold.  Then  that 
piece  of  steel,  so  treated,  becomes  so 
hard  that  it  can  cut  the  counterpart 
from  which  it  was  previously  cut,  yet 
we  have  not  changed  the  content  of 
the  steel.  And  so  is  life  a  tempering 
process. 

To  me  the  story  of  Job  has  a  great 
lesson  in  it.  In  all  the  trials  of  Job, 
Lucifer  did  unto  Job  only  that  which 
the  Lord  permitted.  Lucifer  does  not 
have  power  over  us  only  so  far  as  he 
is  permitted.  The  trials  of  Job  came 
only  by  steps  or  degrees,  not  all  at  once. 
Job  may  not  have  been  able  to  with- 
stand everything  all  at  once,  but  com- 
ing in  steps  each  trial  gave  him  the 
strength  to  take  the  next.  Finally, 
Lucifer  was  given  full  control  over  Job, 
except  that  he  could  not  destroy  his 
soul.  As  Job  conquered,  he  became  more 
perfect.  As  it  was  with  Job,  so  shall 
it  be  with  us.  We  also  must  withstand 
trials  and  difficulties  through  which  we 
attain  perfection.  This  process  thus 
strengthened  Job  until  he  uttered  that 
immortal  testimony:  "For  I  know  that 
my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall 
stand  at  the  latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms 
destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God."  (Job  19:25-26.) 

Many  of  us  say,  "I  believe,"  but  can 
we  say  as  Job  did,  "I  know."  Can  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

say  we  know  that  God  lives,  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of  God,  and  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  re- 
stored in  this,  the  latter  day?  This  is 
the  question  that  we  have  to  answer, 
and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  gives  us 
the  answer  thereto.  Through  the  tem- 
pering process  of  life  we  may  become 
strengthened  even  to  perfection,  as  we 
conquer  and  endure  to  the  end,  that  we 
too  may  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Lord  said:  ".  .  .  he  that  endureth 
to  the  end  shall  be  saved."  (Matt. 
10:22.)  To  the  Nephites  he  said:  "Be- 
hold, I  am  the  law,  and  the  light.  Look 
unto  me,  and  endure  to  the  end,  and 
ye  shall  live;  for  unto  him  that  endur- 
eth to  the  end  will  I  give  eternal 
life"  (3  Nephi  15:9),  which  is  the 
greatest  gift  that  God  can  give  to  man. 

And  so  I,  with  all  good  members  of 
the  Church,  testify  to  you  that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  now  restored 
to  the  earth  in  its  fulness,  that  I  with 
others  can  say  "I  know"  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  and 
through  him  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  been  restored  in  this,  the  latter- 
day,  by  which  we  may  receive  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  even  eternal  life, 
and  this  I  testify  unto  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  I 
sense  fully  the  responsibility  which  rests 
upon  me  at  this  moment.  I  believe, 
also,  that  all  who  speak  from  this  stand 
sense  a  similar  responsibility.  I  realize 
that  there  may  be  thousands  who  are 
listening  eagerly  to  the  messages  which 
come  from  this  building,  and  among 
them  are  many  who  desire  very  sincerely 
to  increase  their  faith  and  to  strengthen 


their  testimonies  concerning  the  divin- 
ity of  God's  work. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
abundantly  blessed.  Without  God's 
blessings  the  work  could  not  proceed. 
Without  God's  blessings  the  many 
settlements  made  in  this  Rocky  Moun- 
tain region  by  the  pioneers  could  not 
have  been  accomplished.  Without  di- 
vine inspiration  and  guidance  the  great 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


25 


missionary  system  could  not  operate  as 
it  does  today.  Without  his  blessings 
temples  could  not  be  erected  at  home 
and  abroad  as  at  present.  And  without 
his  blessings  we  could  not  sustain  up- 
wards of  five  thousand  missionaries  in 
the  field  to  proclaim  the  gospel  truths. 
Neither  could  we  build  the  churches 
and  support  the  schools  and  places  of 
education  which  have  been  developed 
in  our  midst. 

I  feel  sure,  as  I  stand  here,  that  God's 
work  will  not  diminish  in  the  earth. 
Eventually  every  knee  will  bow  and 
every  tongue  will  confess  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ.  The  adversary,  powerful 
as  he  is  in  the  world  today,  will  be  de- 
feated in  his  plans  and  in  his  purposes. 
The  end  of  evil,  so  rampant  in  the 
world,  will  come  when  the  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  has  been  preached  as  a 
witness  in  all  the  world  and  when  the 
power  of  Satan  is  broken. 

The  Church  stands  for  the  principles 
of  eternal  truth  proclaimed  by  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  holy  prophets.  The 
appointed  mission  of  the  Church  is  to 
preach  the  gospel  and  to  administer 
the  ordinances  thereof.  The  work  is 
going  forward  today,  at  home  and 
abroad,  and  we  have  reason,  you  and  I, 
to  rejoice  at  its  success;  and  so  I  say, 
again,  God's  work  will  not  diminish  in 
the  world  or  in  the  Church,  it  will 
continue  its  onward  course.  It  has  sur- 
vived attacks  from  without  and  crises 
and  threats  from  within,  but  it  has  never 
weakened.  It  is  full  of  vitality  and 
power. 

The  large  gathering  of  Latter-day 
Saints  here  and  in  other  places,  the 
recent  expansion  and  the  enlarged 
projects  now  under  way,  are  evidences 
of  virility  and  strength.  The  work  be- 
ing done  is  destined  to  conquer  and  to 
touch  the  human  heart  and  even  where 
Christian  sentiments  are  still  slumber- 
ing. 

I  was  interested  this  morning  when 
Elder  Hinckley  read  from  Section  122 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  They 
were  words  of  reassurance  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  They  came  at  a  moment 
when  he  needed  to  be  reassured,  when 
he  was  being  maligned,  betrayed,  and 
imprisoned.  They  were  given  to  him  in 
Liberty  Jail  where  he  received  words 
of  comfort  and  strength  from  his  Heav- 


enly Father.  Few  men  have  dis- 
charged their  responsibility  with  greater 
confidence  and  a  firmer  trust  in  God 
than  did  Joseph  Smith.  I  marvel  as  I 
contemplate  the  soundness  of  his  pro- 
gram and  the  durability  of  his  teach- 
ings. 

I  recall  the  words  of  the  Savior  about 
John  the  Baptist.   He  said: 

"What  went  ye  out  into  the  wilder- 
ness to  see?  A  reed  shaken  with  the 
wind? 

"...  A  man  clothed  in  soft  raiment?" 
(Matt.  11:7-8.)  They  went  out  to  see 
a  man  who  had  been  true  to  his  calling, 
a  spiritual  giant,  a  great  prophet. 

You  may  rest  assured  that  no  worldly 
allurements  could  swerve  him  from  his 
sacred  calling.  When  you  find  a  man 
who  discharges  his  obligations  to  God, 
first  and  foremost,  you  will  find  a  strong 
man,  an  unconquerable  spirit,  not  a 
reed  shaken  by  the  wind.  He  is  not 
swayed  by  popular  motives  nor  by  pass- 
ing currents.  He  stands  on  a  founda- 
tion that  will  never  give  way. 

When  you  find  a  group  of  men  and 
women  similarly  endowed,  devoted  to 
a  God-given  trust,  counseling  together 
and  working  for  a  divine  cause  in  the 
service  of  God,  you  will  find  an  in- 
vincible community  struggling  and 
striving  for  the  betterment  of  all. 

In  the  year  1831,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
gathered  in  Kirtland,  Ohio.  They  were 
poor  from  the  standpoint  of  worldly 
possessions,  but  they  had  been  taught 
correct  principles  of  government.  They 
lived  in  peace.  They  were  united  in 
their  common  cause.  Within  the  short 
period  of  five  years  they  had  built  homes 
for  themselves,  they  had  made  civic 
improvements,  and  they  had  built  a 
temple  which  cost  them  $75,000.  It 
was  a  stupendous  sum  in  those  days, 
yet  economically,  they  were  on  a  par 
with  their  neighbors  and  friends. 

The  year  following  the  settlement  in 
Kirtland  a  part  of  the  Church  settled 
in  Jackson  County,  Missouri.  What 
they  accomplished  there  within  a  year 
or  two  incited  the  hatred  and  envy  of 
their  neighbors.  A  series  of  persecutions 
commenced  which  resulted  in  the  ex- 
pulsion of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They 
were  driven  from  their  homes  and  de- 
spoiled of  their  property. 


26 

Friday,  October  10 

They  moved  into  the  counties  north- 
ward. 

In  1838,  according  to  Church  history, 
four  years  after  being  driven  from  Jack- 
son County,  there  were  in  Far  West, 
Caldwell  County,  Missouri,  one  hun- 
dred fifty  dwellings,  seven  stores,  six 
blacksmith  shops,  two  hotels,  and  a 
printing  house  prepared  to  issue  a 
Church  periodical.  Schoolhouses  were 
erected,  and  homes  had  been  built  in 
the  country  round  about.  The  exodus 
from  Missouri  to  Illinois  with  its  suf- 
fering, exposure,  hardship,  and  trial, 
has  few  parallels  in  history. 

The  destination  of  the  people  was  a 
bog  which  had  to  be  reclaimed  to  make 
it  fit  for  human  habitation.  This  was 
in  1839.  And  in  1844,  five  years  later, 
the  population  of  their  city  had  reached 
20,000.  Did  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  those  early  days?  These 
refugees  built  comfortable  homes,  pub- 
lic buildings,  schools,  and  a  temple 
which  cost  the  enormous  sum  of  one 
million  dollars.  How  could  they  ac- 
complish this  thing?  All  of  this,  as  you 
know,  they  abandoned  and  left  to  their 
enemies  so  the  Latter-day  Saints  could 
worship  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  their  consciences.  They  wanted  to 
be  free  from  persecution  and  malice. 

The  next  movement  was  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains,  beyond  the  confines  of 
civilization  in  the  great  unexplored 
West.  The  Salt  Lake  Basin  was  at 
that  time  regarded  as  an  irredeemable 
waste.  What  has  happened  in  this 
intermountain  region,  you  already 
know.  The  desert  has  blossomed  as  a 
rose.  The  climate  has  been  tempered. 
Miracles  have  been  wrought  and  the 
precious  things  of  the  earth  are  coming 
to  light. 

I  mention  these  things,  brethren  and 
sisters,  not  to  bring  up  the  past  but  to 
point  out  the  constructive  spirit  of  the 
Mormon  faith.    I  conclude  that  any 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

worthy  project  which  will  enhance 
God's  work  can  be  accomplished  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints — for  God's  work  will 
not  fail.  It  will  triumph  in  the  world 
beyond  the  wildest  dreams  of  those  who 
laid  so  firmly  the  foundation  of  all  we 
have  and  are.  The  same  authority 
which  actuated  and  inspired  Joseph 
Smith  and  Brigham  Young  is  direct- 
ing the  present  leaders  of  the  Church 
today.   I  know  this  to  be  a  fact. 

I  know  God  is  with  his  people.  I 
know  his  inspiration  is  resting  upon 
those  who  are  directing  its  affairs,  and 
I  know  God's  work  will  triumph  in  the 
earth  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
carry  forward  the  great  program  suc- 
cessfully until  it  is  fully  realized,  for 
God  is  still  blessing  his  people. 

May  we  always  remember  it  and  may 
we  live  worthily  before  him  so  that 
these  blessings  can  come  to  all  of  us, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
Congregation  will  now  join  in  singing, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints."  Sister  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen  will  lead  us. 
After  the  singing,  Elder  Milton  R. 
Hunter  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
will  address  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  Chorus  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


In  this  morning's  session  of  the  con- 
ference, President  Stephen  L  Richards 
stated  that  Isaiah  prophesied  that  in  the 
last  days  the  Lord  would  establish  "a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  among 


the  children  of  men.  In  connection 
with  that  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der, Isaiah  said: 

"And  thou  shalt  be  brought  down, 
and  shalt  speak  out  of  the  ground,  and 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


27 


thy  speech  shall  be  low  out  of  the  dust, 
and  thy  voice  shall  be,  as  of  one  that 

hath  a  familiar  spirit  "  (Isaiah  29:4.) 

"And  the  vision  of  all  is  become  unto 
you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that  is 
sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  that 
is  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I  pray 
thee:  and  he  saith,  I  cannot;  for  it  is 
sealed: 

"And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him 
that  is  not  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I 
pray  thee:  and  he  saith,  I  am  not 
learned.  (Ibid.,  vs.  9-12.) 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 
do  a  marvellous  work  among  this  peo- 
ple, even  a  marvellous  work  and  a 
wonder:  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understand- 
ing of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid. 
(Ibid.,  vs.  14.) 

"And  in  that  day  shall  the  deaf  hear 
the  words  of  the  book,  and  the  eyes  of 
the  blind  shall  see  out  of  obscurity, 
and  out  of  darkness. 

"The  meek  also  shall  increase  their 
joy  in  the  Lord,  and  the  poor  among 
men  shall  rejoice  in  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel."  (Ibid.,  vs.  18,  19.) 

The  Prophet  Nephi,  who  lived  about 
a  hundred  years  after  Isaiah  died,  was 
commanded  by  the  Lord  that  he  and 
his  posterity  should  write  a  religious 
record  which  should  contain  especially 
testimonies  and  evidences  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world.  It 
would  contain  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  revealed  to  his  people.  As  part  of 
that  revelation  from  the  Lord,  Nephi 
wrote: 

"For,  behold,  saith  the  Lamb:  I  will 
manifest  myself  unto  thy  seed,  that  they 
shall  write  many  things  which  I  shall 
minister  unto  them,  which  shall  be 
plain  and  precious;  and  after  thy  seed 
shall  be  destroyed,  and  dwindle  in  un- 
belief, and  also  the  seed  of  thy  breth- 
ren, behold,  these  things  shall  be  hid 
up,  to  come  forth  unto  the  Gentiles,  by 
the  gift  and  power  of  the  Lamb. 

"And  in  them  shall  be  written  my 
gospel,  saith  the  Lamb,  and  my  rock 
and  my  salvation."  (1  Nephi  13:35-36.) 

Nephi  was  picked  up  by  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and  taken  on  top  of  a  high 
mountain.  There  he  was  shown  a  glori- 
ous vision  of  the  history  of  the  world. 
As  part  of  that  vision,  Nephi  saw  that 


in  the  latter  days  the  Spirit  of  God 
would  come  down  upon  a  man.  He 
would  get  in  a  ship  and  cross  a  large 
body  of  water  and  come  to  the  "prom- 
ised land,"  or  the  land  which  was  in- 
habited by  the  seed  of  his  brethren.  His- 
tory indicates  that  Columbus  was  this 
man. 

Nephi  also  saw  that  following  the 
discovery  of  this  land — America — by  the 
man  who  was  brought  here  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  would  come  down  upon  many  peo- 
ple who  lived  in  the  countries  across 
the  large  body  of  water.  Seeking  re- 
ligious freedom,  they  would  leave  their 
native  homes  and,  crossing  "the  many 
waters,"  come  to  "the  promised  land." 
He  saw  that  there  they  would  develop 
a  young  nation;  and  this  young  nation 
would  be  prospered  and  blessed  by  the 
Lord.  It  would  rise  up  in  revolt  against 
its  mother  nation.  And  then  he  saw 
that  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God  would 
rest  down  upon  the  inhabitants  of  this 
young  nation,  "and  also  that  the  wrath 
of  God  was  upon  all  those  who  were 
gathered  together  against  them  to  bat- 
tle." He  saw  that  the  inhabitants  of  the 
young  nation  would  win  their  inde- 
pendence from  the  mother  nation  and 
that  they  ".  .  .  were  delivered  by  the 
power  of  God  out  of  the  hands  of  all 
other  nations."  (Ibid.,  13:12-19.) 

It  is  evident  that  Nephi  saw  in  vision 
the  coming  of  the  Pilgrims  and  others, 
the  rise  of  the  thirteen  colonies,  the 
Revolutionary  War,  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  United  States  of  America. 

As  his  vision  continued,  he  observed 
that  through  the  power  of  God  this 
young  nation  would  become  a  free  na- 
tion, a  nation  which  would  be  "lifted 
up  by  the  power  of  God  above  all  other 
nations."  (Ibid.,  13:30.)  It  would  be 
established  in  a  "choice  land  above  all 
lands,"  the  land  which  the  Lord  had 
covenanted  with  Lehi  to  give  to  his 
seed  for  an  inheritance. 

Now,  why  should  the  Lord,  as  is 
evidenced  from  what  I  have  said,  make 
the  United  States  a  free  nation,  a  greater 
and  more  powerful  nation  than  any 
other  nation  under  heaven? 

Nephi  gives  us  the  exact  reason.  He 
said  that  in  the  latter  days  that  Christ 
was  going  to  establish  such  a  nation 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


28 

Friday,  October  10 

and  people  upon  this  the  promised  land 
so  that  he  would  have  a  place  and  a 
people  where  he  would  perform  his 
"marvelous  work  and  a  wonder."  Let 
us  quote  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ 
which  were  given  through  his  Prophet, 
Nephi: 

"Therefore,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a 
marvelous  work  among  this  people,  yea, 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  .  .  ." 
(2  Nephi  27:26.) 

"For  the  time  cometh,  saith  the  Lamb 
of  God,  that  I  will  work  a  great  and  a 
marvelous  work  among  the  children  of 
men;  a  work  which  shall  be  everlasting, 
either  on  the  one  hand  or  on  the  other — 
either  to  the  convincing  of  them  unto 
peace  and  life  eternal,  or  unto  the  de- 
liverance of  them  to  the  hardness  of 
their  hearts  and  the  blindness  of  their 
minds  unto  their  being  brought  down 
into  captivity,  and  also  into  destruction, 
both  temporally  and  spiritually,  accord- 
ing to  the  captivity  of  the  devil,  .  .  ." 
(1  Nephi  14:7.) 

Now,  what  is  this  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder  prophesied  about  by  both 
Isaiah  and  Nephi? 

The  Prophet  Nephi  tells  us  in  detail 
what  this  marvelous  work  is.  First,  he 
declared  that  in  the  latter  days  and  on 
this  land  of  promise  the  Savior  would 
restore  his  gospel  and  establish  his 
Church  and  kingdom.  The  true  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  would  be  revealed  from 
heaven  to  a  prophet;  and  that  prophet's 
name,  according  to  Father  Lehi,  would 
be  Joseph  and  his  father's  name  would 
be  Joseph.  Certainly  Joseph  Smith  fits 
all  of  the  requirements. 

Another  phase  of  "a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder"  would  be  the  fulfilling 
of  the  covenants  made  by  the  Lord  with 
the  children  of  Israel.  Nephi  predicted 
that  at  the  time  that  Jehovah  would 
establish  his  gospel  among  the  Gentiles 
in  the  land  of  promise  he  would  re- 
member the  covenants  he  had  made 
with  the  house  of  Israel — the  covenant 
to  return  the  Jews  to  Palestine,  the  cove- 
nant to  establish  Ephraim  with  the 
birthright  in  the  promised  land,  the 
covenants  with  the  Lamanites — and  he 
would  fulfil  all  of  these  covenants. 

Third,  the  record  of  the  Nephites, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  would  be  given 
to  this  American  prophet.    He  would 


First  Day 

translate  and  publish  a  book  which 
would  contain  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Nephi  predicted  that  the  words  of  this 
book  will  judge  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  at  the  last  day.  (2  Nephi  25:18.) 

And,  fourth,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as 
a  portion  of  this  "marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder,"  would  be  given  through  the 
seed  of  Ephraim — who  would  have  the 
birthright — or  as  Nephi  stated,  through 
the  Gentiles,  to  the  Jews,  to  the  La- 
manites, and  to  all  of  the  dispersed  of 
the  house  of  Israel,  wherever  they  are 
throughout  the  world.  This  book 
would  come  forth  to  bear  witness  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  to  be  a  new  witness  to  the  Bible, 
and  to  help  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the 
honest  throughout  the  earth. 

Now,  let  us  see  how  these  prophecies 
have  been  fulfilled.  In  the  spring  of 
1820,  in  the  state  of  New  York,  a  boy 
named  Joseph  Smith  retired  to  a  grove 
of  trees,  and  there  he  knelt  down  and 
prayed  to  his  eternal  Father,  asking 
which  of  all  the  churches  he  should 
join.  In  answer  to  this  prayer,  one  of 
the  most  glorious  and  marvelous  heaven- 
ly manifestations  that  has  ever  been 
seen  by  man  occurred.  The  eternal 
Father  and  his  Only  Begotten  Son  ap- 
peared to  this  boy-prophet.  The  latter 
told  him  to  join  none  of  the  Christian 
churches,  that  Christ's  true  Church 
wasn't  upon  the  earth,  and  that  Joseph 
had  been  selected  to  be  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God  through  which  the 
true  Church  would  be  established. 

Thus  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Only 
Begotten  Son  inaugurated  this  "marvel- 
ous work  and  a  wonder"  with  this 
greatest  and  most  wonderful  heavenly 
manifestation  that  mortal  man  has  seen 
in  the  latter  days. 

John  the  Revelator  looked  down 
through  the  stream  of  time  and  he  saw 
the  day  about  which  Nephi  had 
prophesied.   He  wrote: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlast- 
ing gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that 
dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 


ELDER  MILTC 

sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters."  (Rev. 
14:6-7.) 

Certainly  reason  tells  us  that  if  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  were  upon  the 
earth  at  that  time  there  would  have 
been  no  need  for  an  angel  to  "fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel"  to  bring  to  earth  again. 

On  September  21,  1823,  that  angel  did 
fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven.  He  ap- 
peared to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  declared  himself  to  be  the  Angel 
Moroni,  the  last  of  a  great  race  of  an- 
cient Americans.  He  told  Joseph  Smith 
about  that  sacred  record  which  God  had 
preserved  to  be  brought  forth  in  the  lat- 
ter days.  Four  years  later  the  record  was 
given  to  the  Prophet.  Through  the  gift 
and  power  of  God  and  the  Urim  and 
Thummim,  he  translated  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  published  it  on  March 
26,  1830,  thus  fulfilling  this  portion  of 
the  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 

Eleven  days  later  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  established,  as  the  result  of  a 
direct  revelation  from  the  Savior, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  was  accepted  by  the 
Master  as  his,  declaring  it  to  be  ".  .  .  the 
only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I, 
the  Lord,  am  well  pleased, ..."  (  D  &  C 
1:30.) 

Previous  to  this  time  Joseph  Smith 
had  received  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  also,  as  part  of  this  marvel- 
ous work  and  a  wonder;  and  as  time 
passed  he  received  through  revelation 
and  heavenly  visitations  all  of  the  ordi- 
nances and  doctrines  necessary  to  the 
salvation  and  the  exaltation  of  the  hu- 
man family. 

As  another  important  phase  of  "a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,"  the 
Prophet  was  commanded  that  he  and 
the  Church  members  should  take  the 
gospel  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple, searching  out  the  honest  in  heart, 
in  order  that  all  of  the  covenants  that 
had  been  made  with  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob  and  others  of  the  house  of 
Israel  might  be  fulfilled.  Thus  through 
this  missionary  work,  Christ  would  ful- 
fil his  covenants  which  he  had  made 
with  the  children  of  men  by  sending 
his  messengers  throughout  the  earth, 
declaring  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 


t  R.  HUNTER  29 

and  proclaiming  Jesus  to  be  the  Christ, 
the  only  name  given  under  heaven 
whereby  man  can  be  saved.  (2  Nephi 
25:20.)  The  honest  in  heart — those  who 
would  receive  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  restored  gospel  and  take  upon 
themselves  the  name  of  Christ  by  join- 
ing his  Church — were  sought  out  of 
the  world  preparatory  for  the  second 
coming  of  Christ,  that  his  kingdom 
might  be  fully  established  here  upon 
the  earth. 

Thereupon  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
inaugurated  the  greatest  and  most  ex- 
tensive missionary  program  that  has 
ever  been  known  in  the  world.  During 
more  than  one  hundred  years'  time  since 
the  Church  was  founded,  thousands 
and  thousands  of  missionaries  have 
proclaimed  the  everlasting  gospel 
throughout  most  of  the  world;  and  mis- 
sionary activities  are  going  forward 
today  even  at  a  greater  momentum  than 
ever  before.  The  honest  in  heart  are 
being  searched  out,  and  the  kingdom 
of  God  is  being  developed. 

According  to  the  word  of  the  Lord 
through  his  ancient  prophets,  Ephraim 
was  to  receive  the  birthright  through 
his  father  Joseph.  Jacob  gave  his  son 
Joseph  a  blessing  in  which  he  said: 

"Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough,  even  a 
fruitful  bough  by  a  well;  whose 
branches  run  over  the  wall.  .  .  . 

"The  blessings  of  thy  father  have  pre- 
vailed above  the  blessings  of  my  pro- 
genitors unto  the  utmost  bound  of  the 
everlasting  hills:  they  shall  be  on  the 
head  of  Joseph  "  (Gen.  49:22,  26.) 

If  we  select  a  spot  away  from  Pales- 
tine, where  could  the  utmost  bound  of 
the  everlasting  hills  be  better  located 
than  here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
centered  here  in  Salt  Lake  City.  This 
certainly  is  the  place. 

Micah  looked  down  through  the 
stream  of  time  and  also  made  a  con- 
firmatory prophecy.   He  said: 

"But  in  the  last  days  it  shall  come  to 
pass,  that  the  mountain  of  the  house 
of  the  Lord  shall  be  established  in  the 
top  of  the  mountains  and  it  shall  be 
exalted  above  the  hills;  and  people  shall 
flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  nations  shall  come,  and 
say,  Come,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the  house 


30 

Friday,  October  10 

of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach 
us  of  his  ways  and  we  will  walk  in  his 
paths:  for  the  law  shall  go  forth  out  of 
Zion,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from 
Jerusalem."  (Micah  4:1-2.) 

The  Salt  Lake  Temple  stands  on  this 
Temple  Square  not  far  distant  from  this 
tabernacle  where  we  are  assembled.  It 
is  the  house  of  the  Lord;  and  so  the 
Lord's  house  has  been  established  in 
the  top  of  the  mountains  and  exalted 
above  the  hills.  Through  the  mission- 
ary program  during  the  past  hundred 
years  converts  have  been  gathered  from 
all  nations  of  the  earth.  Many  of  the 
Saints  have  made  their  homes  in  the 
valleys  of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  As 
they  have  migrated  here  to  build  their 
homes  and  also  as  they  have  come  to 
Salt  Lake  City  to  attend  general  con- 
ference twice  each  year,  they  say:  "Come 
ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God 
of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his 
ways,"  that  they  might  walk  in  his 
path. 

The  "Law  of  the  Lord"  has  gone  forth 
from  Zion  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  through  the 
inspired  teachings  of  the  holy  prophets 
of  this  dispensation  to  confirm  the 
"Word  of  the  Lord"  which  has  gone 
forth  from  Jerusalem  in  the  Holy  Bible. 

Thus  the  prophecies  made  by  these 
ancient  prophets  have  been  and  are 
being  fulfilled. 

In  humility  and  from  the  depths  of 
my  heart,  I  want  to  bear  testimony  that 
I  know  that  "a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder"  has  been  established — the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  here  upon 
the  earth  founded  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  know  as  I  know  that 
I  am  alive  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
one  of  the  greatest  that  the  world  has 
known.  I  also  solemnly  bear  witness 
that  all  the  presidents  who  have  pre- 
sided over  the  Church  in  this  dispen- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

sation,  including  our  beloved  President 
David  O.  McKay,  are  prophets  of  the 
true  and  living  God.  President  McKay 
holds  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  which 
keys  and  position  of  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator,  he  shall  continue  to  hold 
through  divine  appointment  until  death 
and  then  another  will  be  appointed  by 
the  Lord  to  replace  him. 

The  holy  prophets  have  declared  that 
the  kingdom  of  God  has  been  estab- 
lished, never  to  be  taken  from  the  earth 
again,  nor  given  to  another  people — 
thus  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream,  inter- 
preted by  Daniel,  is  being  fulfilled.  The 
God  of  heaven  has  set  up  his  kingdom 
upon  the  earth  in  these  the  last  days, 
"which  shall  never  be  destroyed:  and 
the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other 
people."  Like  "the  stone  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands,"  it  shall  roll 
forth  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth. 
(Dan.  2:44-45,  34-35.)  And  "the  saints 
of  the  Most  High  shall  .  .  .  possess  the 
kingdom  for  ever,  even  for  ever  and 
ever."  (Ibid.,  7:18.) 

The  climax  of  this  whole  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  will  be  the  coming 
of  Jesus  Christ  through  the  clouds  of 
heaven  to  his  kingdom  to  reign  as  King 
of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  (Rev.  19: 16.) 
To  him  shall  be  given  ".  .  .  dominion, 
and  glory,  and  a  kingdom,  that  all 
people,  nations,  and  languages,  should 
serve  him."  (Dan.  7:14.) 

These  things  I  know  through  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  has 
borne  testimony  to  my  heart;  and  I 
bear  this  testimony  to  you  humbly  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  address 
us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Henry  D.  Moyle. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  sincerely  trust  that  the  Lord 
will  give  me  the  inspiration  and  the 
desire  I  have  in  my  heart  to  bear  testi- 


mony to  you  that  I  know  Joseph  Smith 
was  indeed  a  prophet,  that  he  actually 
saw  the  Father  and  the  Son.  There 
appeared  to  him  an  angel  called  Moroni, 


BISHOP  ]OSEP 

and  through  Moroni,  he  received  the 
golden  plates  from  which  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  translated  and  made 
available  to  the  people  of  the  world. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  in  and  of  itself 
is  important  because  we  have  the  his- 
tory that  has  to  do  with  the  people  who 
lived  upon  this,  the  American  conti- 
nent. In  it  we  find  the  prophets  of 
old  indicating  that  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  would  be  upon  this,  the 
American  continent,  which  event  took 
place  when  he  appeared  to  the  Nephites 
after  his  resurrection.  He  organized  the 
Church,  and  gave  them  the  same  privi- 
leges and  opportunities  that  existed 
among  the  people  in  Jerusalem. 

Through  Joseph  Smith,  we  received 
the  priesthood,  both  the  Aaronic  and 
the  Melchizedek.  John  the  Baptist 
appeared  to  the  Prophet  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  and  bestowed  upon  them  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  the  priesthood  that 
he  held  at  the  time  he  baptized  the 
Christ  nearly  two  thousand  years  ago. 
Later  Peter,  James,  and  John  appeared 
and  bestowed  upon  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  was  visited  by 
Elijah,  the  prophet  of  old,  who  gave 
him  the  authority  and  direction  whereby 
he  was  to  go  forward  with  the  work  for 
the  dead,  that  families  would  have 
the  opportunity  of  being  sealed  for  time 
and  eternity  in  our  marvelous  temples. 
He  was  given  many  other  revelations, 
those  that  had  to  do  with  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  itself,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  it  existed  over  two 
thousand  years  ago.  It  was  called  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  by  revelation. 

He  received  many  other  revelations. 
And  I  sincerely  hope  and  trust,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  all  of  us  will 
read  these  revelations  and  understand 
what  they  mean  to  us  as  individuals 
and  what  they  can  do  for  us  in  our 
families  and  particularly  in  contact  with 
those  not  of  our  faith. 

One  revelation  in  particular  I  am  in- 
terested in.  It  is  called  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  It  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  on  February  27,  1833.  This  mar- 
velous revelation  had  to  do  with  the  use 
of  tobacco  and  alcohol,  and  also  indi- 
cated what  we  should  take  into  our 


L.  WIRTHLIN  31 

bodies  to  keep  them  sw2et,  clean,  and 
strong. 

Now,  it  has  been  a  hundred  and 
twenty-five  years  since  the  Prophet 
Joseph  gave  this  marvelous  revelation 
to  the  world.  It  has  taken  medical 
science  a  long  time  to  discover  that 
tobacco  and  alcohol  are  not  good  for 
the  body. 

In  section  89,  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, verse  4  it  reads: 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord 
unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils  and 
designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the 
hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn 
you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of 
wisdom  by  revelation — " 

There  are  some  individuals  in  the 
Church  who  feel  that  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  did  not  come  by  revelation, 
but  here  we  have  it,  in  the  words  of 
the  Lord.  We  have  received  it  as  revela- 
tion. 

When  he  said,  ".  .  .  In  consequence 
of  evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will 
exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in 
the  last  days  .  .  .  ,"  surely  these  are  the 
last  days  when  great  companies  are 
endeavoring  to  sell  to  men  and  women 
over  the  country,  regardless  of  age, 
alcohol  and  tobacco. 

In  1956,  the  American  people  spent 
$10,500,000,000  for  alcohol.  They  spent 
for  tobacco  in  1956,  $5,373,000,000, 
proving  the  truth  of  this  statement  made 
by  the  Prophet  that  in  the  last  days 
conspiring  men  would  endeavor  to  en- 
courage and  suggest  to  the  people  that 
they  should  use  tobacco  and  alcohol. 
On  the  use  of  these  two  poisons,  the 
American  people  spent  approximately 
$16,000,000,000.  I  mention  that  to  you 
because  we  have  only  spent  $14,350,000,- 
000  for  education.  We  have  been 
spending  less  for  education  than  we  have 
for  the  use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol. 

On  a  religious  basis  and  for  welfare 
purposes  in  the  United  States,  we  have 
spent  $3,356,000,000— a pproximately 
one-fifth  of  the  amount  we  have  spent 
for  the  use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol. 

Now  please  keep  in  mind  this  won- 
derful revelation  was  given  to  us  125 
years  ago.  At  that  time,  medical  science 
had  not  given  any  consideration  to  the 
use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol.  So,  we  Can 
come  to  but  one  conclusion:  Joseph 


32 

Friday,  October  lr 

Smith  received  a  revelation  of  the  Lord 
whereby  we  are  to  protect  ourselves 
against  these  individuals  who  are 
anxious  that  young  men  and  young 
women  over  the  country  shall  use  al- 
cohol and  tobacco. 

There  is  another  marvelous  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  has  to 
do  with  the  welfare  program.  This 
wonderful  revelation  is  found  in  The 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  78, 
Verse  3: 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  time 
has  come,  and  is  now  at  hand;  and 
behold,  and  lo,  it  must  needs  be  that 
there  be  an  organization  of  my  people, 
in  regulating  and  establishing  the  affairs 
of  the  storehouse  for  the  poor  of  my  peo- 
ple, both  in  this  place  and  in  the  land 
of  Zion— " 

This  was  given  to  the  Prophet  in 
Hiram,  Ohio,  in  March  1832.  The  Lord 
realized  then  as  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, there  must  be  an  organization  of 
some  kind  whereby  those  who  were  in 
need  could  be  helped.  He  said  there 
should  be  an  organization,  ".  .  .  regulat- 
ing and  establishing  the  affairs  of  the 
storehouse  .  .  .  both  in  this  place  and 
in  the  land  of  Zion — " 

The  great  welfare  program  was  given 
first  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  form 
of  a  revelation  from  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Now  we  find  these  storehouses 
all  over  Zion,  and  wherever  you  find 
stakes,  you  also  find  these  wonderful 
storehouses  for  the  benefit  and  the  as- 
sistance of  those  who  are  in  need. 

This  brings  us  to  the  conclusion,  in 
the  final  analysis,  that  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  Father  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  gave  him  the  direction, 
inspiration,  and  the  revelations  that  were 
necessary  to  organize  the  Church,  not 
only  to  organize  it,  but  to  protect  the 
people  and  guide  and  direct  them 
against  all  that  is  evil  and  contrary  to 
the  mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

In  the  Saturday  Evening  Post  of  Octo- 
ber 1 1,  1958,  there  appeared  a  wonderful 
statement  on  the  establishment  of  the 
welfare  program.  The  world  is  begin- 
ning to  recognize  that  the  welfare  pro- 
gram is  necessary  and  essential  in 
assisting  those  who  are  in  need  of  help, 
be  it  food  or  clothing  or  whatnot. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Joseph  Smith  actually  received  the 
revelation  whereby  the  great  welfare 
program  came  into  existence.  The  Lord 
realized  that  the  time  would  come  when 
we  would  need  it  all  over  the  land  of 
Zion,  wherever  our  people  are  to  be 
found  that  we  might  be  able  to  assist 
them  and  provide  them  with  the  neces- 
sities of  life. 

Another  marvelous  revelation  is  one 
that  is  not  encouraging,  but  nevertheless 
is  true,  and  we  must  give  it  considera- 
tion. It  is  section  87  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  and  it  reads: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  con- 
cerning the  wars  that  will  shortly  come 
to  pass,  beginning  at  the  rebellion  of 
South  Carolina,  which  will  eventually 
terminate  in  the  death  and  misery  of 
many  souls; 

"And  the  time  will  come  that  war 
will  be  poured  out  upon  all  nations, 
beginning  at  this  place."  He  could 
only  have  known  this  through  the 
revelations  that  were  given  to  him  by 
the  Lord.  Then  also  He  said,  "For 
behold,  the  Southern  States  shall  be 
divided  against  the  Northern  States,  and 
the  Southern  States  will  call  on  other 
nations,  even  the  nation  of  Great 
Britain,  as  it  is  called,  and  they  shall 
also  call  upon  other  nations,  in  order 
to  defend  themselves  against  other  na- 
tions; and  then  war  shall  be  poured 
out  upon  all  nations. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  after  many 
days,  slaves  shall  rise  up  against  their 
masters,  who  shall  be  marshaled  and 
disciplined  for  war."  (D  &  C  87:1-4.) 

In  many  cases  I  am  quite  sure  we  all 
think  this  has  to  do  particularly  with 
the  slaves  in  the  Southern  States,  but  I 
believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it 
was  intended  that  this  referred  to  slaves 
all  over  the  world,  and  I  think  of  those, 
particularly  in  the  land  of  Russia  and 
other  countries  wherein  they  have  been 
taken  over  by  that  great  nation  and 
where  the  people  are  actually  the  slaves 
of  those  individuals  who  guide  and 
direct  the  affairs  of  Russia  and  China, 
and  where  the  rights  and  the  privilege 
to  worship  God  and  to  come  to  a 
knowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son 
is  denied  them. 

He  also  said,  "And  it  shall  come  to 
pass  also  that  the  remnants  who  are 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


33 


left  of  the  land  will  marshal  them- 
selves, and  shall  become  exceedingly 
angry,  and  shall  vex  the  Gentiles  with 
a  sore  vexation. 

"And  thus,  with  the  sword  and  by 
bloodshed  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
shall  mourn;  and  with  famine,  and 
plague,  and  earthquake,  and  the  thunder 
of  heaven,  and  the  fierce  and  vivid 
lightning  also,  shall  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth  be  made  to  feel  the  wrath, 
and  indignation,  and  chastening  hand 
of  an  Almighty  God,  until  the  con- 
sumption decreed  hath  made  a  full  end 
of  all  nations;"  {Idem,  5-6.) 

In  the  matter  of  famine  and  plague 
and  earthquakes,  we  can  go  back  to 
World  War  I,  where  40,000,000  indi- 
viduals lost  their  lives  either  through 
the  war  or  through  famine  or  plague. 
And  in  the  world  war  just  passed 
wherein  our  own  nation  was  involved, 
we  lost  408,789  of  our  men.  In  Korea, 
we  lost  33,629. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  gave  us  this  mar- 
velous revelation  in  1832.  The  Civil 
War  came  in  1861;  the  war  between 
Denmark  and  Prussia  in  1864;  Italy  and 
Austria  in  1865  and  1866;  Austria  and 
Prussia  in  1866;  Russia  and  Turkey  in 
1877;  China  and  Japan  in  1894  and 
1895;  Spanish-American  in  1898;  Japan 
and  Russia  in  1904  and  1905;  World 
War  I  in  1914-1918;  then  the  next  war 
was  a  comparatively  small  one,  Ethiopia 
and  Italy,  when  the  people  in  that 
land  of  Ethiopia  were  taken  over  and 
controlled  by  Italy.  I  am  grateful  to 
the  Lord  that  they  now  have  their 
freedom.  Then,  the  World  War  just 
passed  and,  of  course,  the  Korean  War. 

These  nations  of  Russia,  China, 
Korea,  Syria,  Israel,  Egypt,  Arabia, 
Lebanon — all  of  these  nations  are  now 
in  an  attitude  of  war  of  some  kind.  Just 
what  the  results  are  going  to  be,  I  do 
not  know.  Of  course,  from  the  revela- 
tions we  can  and  do  know  that  some 
day  there  will  be  one  great  war  in  a 
certain  area,  that  area  possibly  may  be 
in  and  around  some  of  these  countries 
I  have  mentioned,  probably  around 
Israel. 

In  thinking  of  these  nations,  there  is 
another  marvelous  revelation  given  by 
one  of  the  prophets  over  three  thousand 
years  ago,  from  Proverbs,  Chapter  6, 


Verses  16,  17,  18,  and  19,  wherein 
Solomon  said: 

"These  six  things  doth  the  Lord  hate: 
yea,  seven  are  an  abomination  unto 
him: 

"A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue,  and 
hands  that  shed  innocent  blood, 

"An  heart  that  deviseth  wicked  im- 
aginations, feet  that  be  swift  in  running 
to  mischief. 

"A  false  witness  that  speaketh  lies, 
and  he  that  soweth  discord  among 
brethren." 

This  statement  by  Solomon,  thousands 
of  years  ago,  was  given  for  the  in- 
formation that  in  the  last  days  some  of 
these  individuals  who  lead  and  guide 
and  direct  nations  would  have  in  their 
hearts,  "A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue, 
and  hands  that  shed  innocent  blood." 

As  we  think  of  the  events  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  last  years,  we  wonder 
whether  or  not  these  are  the  individuals 
who  are  going  to  cause  the  great  world 
war  which  sometime  will  come  before 
the  Christ  appears. 

What  is  going  to  be  our  position? 
What  is  yours  and  what  is  mine?  What 
is  that  of  the  membership  of  the  world? 
What  is  that  of  the  membership  of  all 
of  those  who  believe  in  Jesus  as  the 
Son  of  God?  In  the  marvelous  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  Doc- 
trine &  Covenants,  section  88,  verse  126, 
he  said  this: 

"Pray  always,  that  ye  may  not  faint, 
until  I  come,  behold,  and  lo,  I  will 
come  quickly,  and  receive  you  unto  my- 
self. Amen." 

So,  if  we  are  loyal  and  devoted  to 
Jesus  Christ,  if  we  live  the  gospel  as 
we  should,  if  we  are  sweet  and  clean, 
and  if  war  and  difficulties  come,  as  he 
said,  "Pray  always,"  for  if  we  will  pray 
to  God  and  to  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
there  is  no  question  but  that  the  Lord 
will  help  us  solve  our  problems  and 
give  us  the  guidance  and  the  direction 
that  we  need. 

Then,  finally,  he  said  this,  "Where- 
fore, stand  ye  in  holy  places,  and  be  not 
moved,  until  the  day  of  the  Lord  come; 
for  behold,  it  cometh  quickly,  saith  the 
Lord.  Amen."  (Ibid.,  87:8.) 

As  I  think  of  this  statement,  "stand 
ye  in  holy  places,"  I  wonder  what  these 
holy  places  are.    I  am  sure  these  holy 


34 

Friday,  October  10 

places,  one  of  which,  brethren  and 
sisters,  could  be  our  own  homes  if  we 
are  prayerful,  if  we  are  teaching  our 
sons  and  daughters  to  know  that  God 
lives,  to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
Son,  to  know  that  Joseph  Smith  actually 
saw  the  Father  and  the  Son,  if  we  have 
our  prayers  day  and  night,  if  the  whole 
family  has  the  knowledge  and  the  testi- 
mony that  God  actually  lives,  and  the 
Lord  will  help  us  solve  our  problems 
and  overcome  them.  Our  homes  should 
be  a  holy  place.  There  is  the  holy 
place  where  we  may  go  once  a  week 
and  partake  of  the  Sacrament  and  be 
taught  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  by  those  who  are  assigned  to 
teach  us  and  give  us  more  knowledge 
about  the  gospel. 

Another  holy  place,  of  course,  is  the 
temple — these  wonderful  buildings  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  wherein  we  can 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

go  and  be  sealed  together,  father  and 
mother,  sons  and  daughters,  for  time 
and  eternity.  In  this  holy  place,  we 
can  do  the  work  for  the  dead  who  did 
not  have  the  same  privileges  and  oppor- 
tunities that  you  and  I  have  had. 

I  do  testify  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  who  saw  the  Father  and 
the  Son  and  other  heavenly  beings  in 
establishing  the  priesthood  and  organ- 
izing the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  May  all  the  world 
accept  this  testimony,  I  pray  humbly, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church  has 
just  addressed  us.  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grate- 
ful for  this  opportunity  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony to  you  today  and  to  bring  to  you 
a  message  from  those  who  claim  mem- 
bership in  the  Church,  who  are  part  of 
this  great  society  of  friends  in  the  world 
living  under  circumstances  much  less 
favorable  than  those  under  which  we 
live. 

I  believe  one  of  the  most  inspiring 
instances  in  my  life  was  the  opportunity 
I  had  this  summer,  at  the  direction  of 
President  McKay,  to  visit  our  Saints  in 
East  Germany.  We  held  a  great  con- 
ference in  the  city  of  Leipzig.  Into  that 
city  came  busloads  of  members  of  the 
Church  from  all  of  Saxony,  from  Dres- 
den, Freiburg,  Chemnitz,  Stuttgart, 
Plauen,  as  far  away  as  Mecklenberg. 

I  have  never  seen  an  exhibition  of 
greater  unity,  of  greater  devotion  one  to 
another,  nor  have  I  ever  seen  a  greater 
appreciation  in  the  hearts  of  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters  for  the  restored  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  I  think  you  would  have 
to  live  the  experience  in  order  to  appre- 
ciate what  I  am  trying  to  say  to  you. 

These  people  have  had  trials  and 
tribulations,  losses  to  undergo.  I  know 
of  one  family  in  which  all  of  the  male 


members  of  that  family  for  four  genera- 
tions just  disappeared  in  the  war.  But 
those  who  were  left  behind,  the  mothers 
and  the  children,  remained  true  to  the 
faith.  There  are  people  there  today 
who  have  had  membership  in  the 
Church  for  more  than  fifty  years,  men 
and  women  whom  I  knew  when  I  was 
on  my  mission  in  1909  and  1910  in  that 
very  country,  men  and  women  who  have 
withstood  the  persecutions  heaped  upon 
them  not  only  from  outside  but  from 
within  and  have  stayed  true  to  the 
Church. 

As  I  understand  it,  there  are  many 
people,  almost  every  day,  leaving  East 
Germany  for  West  Germany,  and  so 
one  of  the  questions  that  I  propounded 
to  many  of  the  Saints  with  whom  I  had 
the  opportunity  of  talking,  was  the 
question  as  to  whether  or  not  they  did 
not  desire  to  come  out  of  East  Germany 
and  to  migrate  West.  Without  a  single 
exception  in  that  group  in  Leipzig,  they 
all  said  that  they  felt  that  their  place 
was  to  be  in  their  own  native  country. 
They  wanted  to  stay  there.  They 
wanted  to  help  build  up  the  Church. 
They  wanted  to  do  missionary  work 
among  their  neighbors  and  their  friends. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


35 


We  have  a  great  leader  behind  the 
Iron  Curtain,  a  young  man  by  the  name 
of  Henry  Burkardt.  I  met  him  five  years 
ago.  I  marvelled  then  at  his  faith,  his 
loyalty,  and  his  devotion  to  the  Church. 
Then  he  was  unmarried.  Now  he  is 
married  and  has  a  family,  and  the  Lord 
has  magnified  him  in  his  calling  as  first 
counselor  to  the  mission  president  of  the 
North  German  Mission,  President  Burtis 
Robbins.  He  has  served  in  this  capacity 
under  several  mission  presidents.  I  had 
a  meeting  there  that  lasted  all  one  Sat- 
urday, with  the  missionaries,  the  local 
missionaries,  with  the  branch  presidents, 
with  the  district  presidents,  of  those 
branches  and  districts,  and  every  one 
of  them  bore  witness  to  the  devotion  of 
Brother  Burkardt  and  of  their  love  and 
affection  for  him.  He  has  all  of  the 
attributes  of  a  great  leader.  And  there 
he  stands,  practically  alone  so  far  as 
help  from  the  outside  is  concerned. 

Those  people  would  like  to  know 
what  we  are  doing  here  today.  They 
look  forward  to  our  general  conferences, 
never  to  know  what  happens  here,  never 
to  have  any  conference  reports,  except 
in  rare  instances,  and  all  they  know  is 
what  they  hear  occasionally,  when  our 
mission  president  finds  it  possible  to 
go  behind  the  Iron  Curtain  and  to  meet 
with  them  for  a  day  or  two,  not  oftener 
than  twice  a  year.  And  then  in  those 
meetings,  there  is  so  much  business  to 
transact,  that  he  has  little  opportunity 
to  tell  of  the  progress  of  the  Church. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the 
thought  that  there  had  not  been  a  Gen- 
eral Authority  enter  into  the  lives  of 
those  people  in  twenty-nine  years.  Well, 
they  just  could  not  come  up  and  shake 
hands  with  you  without  expressing  their 
gratitude,  with  tears  coming  into  their 
eyes.  They  wanted  all  of  them  to  share 
what  little  they  had  there  to  eat,  with 
us.  I  tell  you,  it  would  have  done  all 
your  hearts  good  if  you  had  been  there 
to  see  them. 

I  realized  as  never  before,  the  extent 
to  which  our  Saints  in  Europe  sustain 
President  McKay  as  a  true  prophet  of 
God.  Those  who  attended  the  London 
Temple  dedication  and  heard  his  in- 
spired dedicatory  prayer  need  no  one 
to  tell  them  that  he  is  a  prophet  of 
God.  They  knew  it  as  they  met  and 
associated  with  him.  They  received  the 


witness  that  he  is  guided  by  inspiration 
and  revelation  in  leading  the  Church. 

Everywhere  in  Europe  the  Church 
seems  to  be  progressing,  growing  and 
developing,  and  multiplying.  And  so 
my  thoughts  turned  to  the  words  which 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apos- 
tles, when  the  brethren  visited  Caesarea. 
This  was  after  Paul's  conversion: 

"Then  had  the  churches  rest  through- 
out all  Judaea  and  Galilee  and  Samaria, 
and  were  edified;  and  walking  in  the 
fear  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  comfort  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  were  multiplied." 
(Acts  9:31.) 

I  do  not  know  how  the  situation  in 
Europe  could  be  described  better,  be- 
cause that  is  exactly  what  is  happening. 

Then  I  turned  to  the  words  of  Paul  in 
his  statement  to  the  Corinthians,  which 
applies  so  definitely  to  the  conditions 
of  these  wonderful  Saints  back  of  the 
Iron  Curtain: 

"We  are  troubled  on  every  side,  yet 
not  distressed;  we  are  perplexed,  but  not 
in  despair; 

"Persecuted,  but  not  forsaken;  cast 
down,  but  not  destroyed."  (II  Cor.  4:8- 
9.) 

These  brethren  and  sisters  are  part 
and  parcel  of  this  great  organization, 
this  society  of  friends,  of  Saints,  to 
which  we  all  belong.  I  have  no  hesi- 
tancy in  stating  that  we  constitute  the 
greatest  society  of  brethren  and  sisters 
the  world  has  ever  known,  and  if  that 
were  not  true,  I  am  sure  it  will  shortly 
be  brought  to  pass,  because  that  is  what 
the  Lord  wills  of  us,  his  people.  I  am 
further  satisfied  that  there  was  never  a 
time  in  the  history  of  the  world  when 
the  Lord  had  bestowed  upon  his  serv- 
ants a  greater  power  than  is  manifest 
in  the  leadership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  today.  It  is 
not  only  found  in  our  great  Prophet 
leader,  but  it  is  found  in  the  mission 
field,  in  the  lives  and  in  the  works  of 
the  missionaries.  I  am  sure  that  mis- 
sionaries in  the  world  have  never  been 
blessed  to  a  greater  degree  than  are  the 
missionaries  today  throughout  the  world, 
and  I  am  also  conscious  of  the  fact  that 
the  Adversary  is  mindful  of  this,  and 
is  not  inactive  in  seeking  to  thwart  the 
purposes  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  power  of  the  priesthood  made 
manifest  through  our  elders  in  the  mis- 


36 

Friday,  October  10 

sion  fields,  our  sons  and  our  daughters, 
will  overcome  all  the  obstacles  that  the 
Adversary  can  put  in  their  way  and  the 
work  of  the  Lord  will  go  forth  and  we 
will  be  multiplied,  we  will  be  edified, 
and  we  will  have  the  comfort  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  in  our  work. 

I  tell  you,  the  message  that  we  bear 
to  the  world  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  is  bearing  fruit  in 
every  land  and  in  every  city.  Cities  and 
countries  which  heretofore  have  turned 
a  deaf  ear  to  us  are  now  opening  their 
doors,  and  it  is  difficult  for  us  to  find 
meeting  places  large  enough  to  accom- 
modate the  crowds  of  investigators. 

I  must  tell  you  one  instance.  Just  a 
few  months  ago  we  went  into  the  city 
of  Innsbruck,  up  in  the  mountains  of 
Austria,  a  city  in  which  I  understand 
we  have  never  previously  done  mission- 
ary work.  I  had  the  privilege  of  speak- 
ing to  a  branch  there  of  some  twenty 
Saints  and  over  thirty  investigators,  the 
work,  as  I  remember  it,  of  less  than  six 
months.  And  that  is  the  report  that  we 
get  all  over  Europe. 

I  tell  you  it  is  a  privilege,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  be  able  to  bear  wit- 
ness to  the  world  of  that  testimony 
which  has  come  into  our  hearts.  Joy 
and  satisfaction  beyond  measure  is 
reaped  by  those  of  us  who  are  able  thus 
to  do. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  has 
given  to  us,  his  children,  that  light 
and  knowledge  by  which  we  can  un- 
derstand and  appreciate  God  and  his 
ways,  and  through  obedience  thereto 
be  brought  back,  eternally,  into  his  king- 
dom, saved  and  exalted  with  his  peo- 
ple. I  pray  the  Lord  that  we  may  all 
so  live  that  we  may  emulate  the  exam- 
ple of  our  leaders  and  teach  his  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  our  friends  and  our 
neighbors  and  thus  become  saviors  upon 
Mount  Zion  as  we  save  the  souls  of  our 
fellow  men,  which  I  pray  humbly,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
at  the  conclusion  of  this  session,  will 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

favor  us  with,  "Peace  I  Leave  With 
You,"  under  the  leadership  of  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Howard  B.  Stone,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Samoan  Mission,  after  which 
this  Conference  will  stand  adjourned 
until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

I  just  wish  to  say  one  word  in  appre- 
ciation of  our  Singing  Mothers.  You 
have  been  thrilled  with  this  artistic, 
impressive  singing,  under  the  leadership 
of  this  wonderful  director.  But  not  many 
know  what  they  have  done  in  prepara- 
tion of  this  service.  They  were  with  the 
Relief  Society  two  days,  they  have  been 
here  all  day  today,  they  will  be  with 
us  tomorrow.  I  have  learned  since  this 
morning's  session  that  some  of  these 
Sisters  traveled  two  hundred  miles  to 
practice  these  songs,  that  they  had  to 
stay  over  night.  One  day  they  practiced 
eight  hours — four  hours  in  the  morning 
and  four  hours  in  the  afternoon,  and 
Sister  Madsen  taught  them,  led  them, 
instructed  them,  these  lovely  mothers. 

We  do  not  know — I  wish  the  world 
knew — what  these  women  of  ours  in  the 
Church  do  freely,  what  they  sacrifice. 
Motherhood  is  a  great  responsibility,  a 
sacred  responsibility.  And  in  addition 
to  that  service  they  spend  hours,  two 
hundred  miles  to  practice,  two  hundred 
miles  back.  Oh,  yes,  Sisters,  the  Church 
appreciates  it,  and  for  all  of  these  things 
you  have  our  blessing  and  prayers  that 
you  will  be  guided,  your  children  pro- 
tected while  you  are  away,  while  you 
are  rendering  this  service.  They  will 
be  with  us  again  tomorrow  morning. 

There  are  a  few  notices  that  we  shall 
have  to  give.  As  announced  this  morn- 
ing, these  lovely  flowers  on  the  rostrum, 
the  protea,  are  from  members  of  the 
Relief  Society  sisters  of  the  South  Afri- 
can Mission.  The  red  antheriums  are 
from  the  Saints  of  the  Honolulu  Stake. 

Tonight  at  seven  o'clock,  in  this 
building,  will  be  held  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  Monument  dedication.  The 
Aaronic  Priesthood  Memorial  Monument 
will  be  dedicated,  with  a  special  pro- 
gram beginning  at  seven  o'clock.  All 
Aaronic  Priesthood  members  and  lead- 
ers are  invited  to  attend. 

Secretaries  of  the  ward  and  stake 
Welfare  Committees  will  meet  in  Bar- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


37 


ratt  Hall  tonight,  with  members  of  the 
General  Church  Welfare  Committee. 

The  Agricultural  meeting  of  the  Wel- 
fare Organization  will  be  held  tomor- 
row morning  at  7:30  o'clock.  There  will 
be  an  Agricultural  meeting  under  the 
direction  of  the  General  Church  Welfare 
Committee  for  all  stake  presidents,  bish- 
ops, and  their  associates  in  charge  of 
the  operation  of  welfare  production 
projects,  tomorrow  morning  at  7:30 
o'clock  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

There  will  be  a  meeting  for  all  pa- 
triarchs of  the  Church  tomorrow  morn- 
ing at  eight  o'clock. 

There  will  be  a  meeting  for  all  in  the 


Church  at  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morn- 
ing. 

Our  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing, 
"Peace  I  Leave  With  You,"  and  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  by  ben- 
ediction until  tomorrow  morning  at  ten 
o'clock. 

The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  sang  the 
selection,  "Peace  I  Leave  With  You." 

Elder  Howard  B.  Stone,  formerly 
president  of  the  Samoan  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday 
morning,  October  11,  at  10:00  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  general  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  promptly  at  10  o'clock 
Saturday  morning,  October  11,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  meeting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
of  the  three  Southern  California  regions 
were  present  and  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session.  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  directed  the  singing, 
with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflowing 
this  morning,  at  this,  the  third  session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Eighth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
welcome  this  large  audience  and  all  who 
are  listening  in  by  radio  or  television. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  occupying 
front  seats  prominent  officials  in  gov- 
ernment, state,  educational  affairs — we 
appreciate  their  attendance.  You  will 
be  pleased  to  note  Senator  Watkins,  Sen- 
ator Bennett,  Congressman  William  A. 
Dawson,  Congressman  Henry  Aldous 
Dixon,  Governor  George  Dewey  Clyde, 
Secretary  of  State  Lamont  Toronto, 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  president  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University,  Dr.  G.  Ho- 
mer  Durham,   vice-president   of  the 


University  of  Utah,  John  L.  Clarke, 
president  of  Ricks  College,  E.  Allen 
Bateman,  State  Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction,  M.  Lynn  Bennion,  Super- 
intendent of  Salt  Lake  Public  Schools, 
Mayor  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  A.  Sherman 
Christensen,  Judge  of  the  Federal  Court, 
and  others  I  am  sure  whom  we  have 
probably  overlooked.  We  appreciate  the 
interest  shown  by  these  government, 
state,  and  educational  officials. 

There  are  some  cables  here  you  would 
be  interested  in,  too.  Here  is  one  from 
New  Zealand  South  Mission:  "To  the 
First  Presidency  and  Saints  assembled, 
Greeting  and  Aloha  Nui  from  mission- 
aries and  saints  of  the  newest  mission 
in  the  Church.  New  Zealand  South 
Mission.  President  Alexander  P.  Ander- 
son. 

And  we  have  here  about  fifty  Samoans, 
members  of  the  Samoan  Choir.  We 
welcome  you  here.  They  are  sitting  here 
in  a  body.  'Tal  o-fa  lava'  (Samoan 
greeting) 

This  is  an  interesting  note.  We  met 
some  of  our  Marine  boys  yesterday.  We 
are  always  pleased  to  hear  that  our  sol- 
dier boys  are  maintaining  their  stand- 
ards. Here  is  one  from  the  Commander 
of  the  Chaplain  Corps  of  the  United 
States  Navy,  the  Rev.  L.  W.  Meacham. 
He  says: 

"This  note  is  written  for  the  purpose 
of  expressing  my  appreciation  for  the 


38 

Saturday,  October  11 

fine  work  which  the  lay  leaders  of  your 
Church  have  done  on  this  station  in 
caring  for  the  spiritual  needs  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  been 
happy  to  provide  a  place  for  them  to  use 
as  a  place  of  worship.  We  hope  that  this 
group  will  be  highly  benefited  by  at- 
tendance upon  the  128th  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  The  Chap- 
lains on  this  station  send  Christian 
greetings  to  your  Conference  and  pray 
God's  richest  blessings  upon  it." 

I  have  a  note  here  also  that  150 
Lesser  Priesthood  boys,  each  of  whom 
was  qualified  for  the  Award  by  100% 
attendance  at  their  meetings,  and  their 
leaders,  have  driven  nearly  a  thousand 
miles  from  Calgary,  Canada,  to  be  pres- 
ent on  this  occasion,  and  undoubtedly  to 
be  present  on  the  great  occasion  last 
evening  at  the  Lesser  Priesthood  service 
dedicating  the  Monument. 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  West.  We  again  express  apprecia- 
tion for  the  service  that  is  being  rendered 
by  the  owners  and  managers  of  these 
various  stations.  Their  names,  as  I  have 
told  you,  have  already  been  announced. 

The  Singing  Mothers  are  here  with  us 
and  I  am  going  to  take  just  a  minute 
so  that  you  will  appreciate  what  these 
mothers  have  done  and  are  doing.  I 
have  told  you  that  they  are  from  three 
regions  in  California,  and  includes  the 
following  stakes:  Bakersfield,  Burbank, 
Covina,  East  Long  Beach,  East  Los 
Angeles,  Glendale,  Inglewood,  Long 
Beach,  Los  Angeles,  Mount  Rubidoux, 
Orange  County,  Pasadena,  Redondo, 
Reseda,  San  Bernardino,  San  Diego,  San 
Diego  East,  San  Fernando,  Santa  Ana, 
Santa  Monica,  and  South  Los  Angeles. 
And  they  have  travelled  from  all  those 
stakes  to  practice  before  they  came  over 
here.  It  is  wonderful  and  we  are  happy, 
gratefully  happy,  for  your  presence  this 
morning. 

They  will  now  sing,  "Glory  to  God," 
under  the  direction  of  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Lorin  L.  Richards,  formerly 
president  of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  Chorus,  "Glory  to  God." 

Elder  Lorin  L.  Richards,  formerly 
president  of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission, 
offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "Teach  Me,  O 
Lord,  The  Way  Of  Thy  Statutes,"  under 
the  direction  of  Sister  Florence  Jepper- 
son Madsen.  After  the  singing  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Confer- 
ence, will  read  the  changes  in  Stake, 
Ward,  and  Branch  organizations  since 
April  Conference,  1958. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang:  "Teach  Me,  O  Lord,  The  Way 
Of  Thy  Statutes." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1958 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

London  Temple:  Selvoy  J.  Boyer. 

NEW  MISSION  ORGANIZED 
New  Zealand  South  Mission. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Brazilian  Mission:  William  Grant 
Bangerter  to  succeed  Asael  T.  Sorensen. 

British  Mission:  T.  Bowring  Wood- 
bury, to  succeed  Clifton  G.  M.  Kerr. 

California  Mission:  Jesse  A.  Udall, 
to  succeed  Henry  D.  Taylor. 

Finnish  Mission:  John  D.  Warner  to 
succeed  Phileon  B.  Robinson,  Jr. 

Mexican  Mission:  Harvey  H.  Taylor, 
to  succeed  Claudious  Bowman. 

New  Zealand  Mission:  Robert  L. 
Simpson,  to  succeed  Ariel  S.  Ballif. 

New  Zealand  South  Mission:  Alexan- 
der P.  Anderson. 

Northern  Mexican  Mission:  Israel 
Ivins  Bentley,  to  succeed  Harvey  H. 
Taylor. 

Southwest  Indian  Mission:  Frederick 
A.  Turley  to  succeed  Alfred  E.  Rohner. 

Tahitian  Mission:  Joseph  Rex  Reeder, 
to  succeed  Ellis  V.  Christensen. 


CHANGES  IN  CHUR( 

Western  Canadian  Mission:  Parley 
Andrew  Arave,  to  succeed  Moroni  M. 
Larson. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Auckland  Stake  organized  May  18, 
1958  from  a  part  of  the  New  Zealand 
Mission. 

Bountiful  North  Stake  organized  April 
20,  1958  by  division  of  Bountiful  Stake. 

Bountiful  South  Stake  organized  April 
20,  1958  by  division  of  Bountiful  and 
South  Davis  Stakes. 

Granger  Stake  organized  June  8,  1958 
by  division  of  North  Jordan  Stake. 

Olympus  Stake  organized  June  29, 
1958  by  division  of  Holladay  Stake. 

St.  Louis  Stake  organized  June  1,  1958 
from  a  part  of  the  Central  States  Mis- 
sion. 

San  Diego  East  Stake  organized  April 
20,  1958  by  division  of  San  Diego  Stake. 

Utah  State  University  Stake  organ- 
ized April  13,  1958  by  division  of  East 
Cache  Stake. 

Yuma  Stake  organized  April  27,  1958 
from  a  part  of  the  California  Mission. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Auckland  Stake:  George  Ross  Biesing- 
er. 

Blackfoot  Stake:  Willard  Smith  Wray, 
to  succeed  Parley  A.  Arave. 

Bountiful  Stake:  Stanford  G.  Smith, 
to  succeed  Thomas  Amby  Briggs. 

Bountiful  North  Stake:  Henry  E.  Pe- 
terson. 

Bountiful  South  Stake:  Ward  C.  Hol- 
brook. 

East  Mill  Creek  Stake:  O.  Layton 
Alldredge,  to  succeed  Gordon  B.  Hinck- 
ley. 

Granger  Stake:  William  Grant  Ban- 
gerter. 

Holladay  Stake:  Bernard  P.  Brock- 
bank,  to  succeed  G.  Carlos  Smith. 

North  Box  Elder  Stake:  Malcolm  C. 
Young,  to  succeed  Vernal  Willie. 

North  Jordan  Stake:  Eldon  Verne 
Breeze,  to  succeed  William  Grant  Ban- 
gerter. 

Olympus  Stake:  Heber  E.  Peterson. 

St.  George  Stake:  Rudger  Clawson 
Atkin,  to  succeed  Wilford  J.  Reichmann. 

St.  Joseph  Stake:  Jack  Solon  Daley,  to 
succeed  Jesse  A.  Udall. 


H  ORGANIZATIONS  39 

St.  Louis  Stake:  Roy  William  Oscar- 
son. 

San  Diego  East  Stake:  Cecil  Ivan 
Burningham. 

South  Davis  Stake:  Wallace  Rollins, 
to  succeed  Ward  C.  Holbrook. 

South  Los  Angeles  Stake:  Clifford  B. 
Wright,  to  succeed  William  Noble 
Waite. 

South  Sanpete  Stake:  Vernon  Leon 
Kunz,  to  succeed  J.  Elliott  Cameron. 

Utah  State  University  Stake:  Reed 
Bullen. 

Yuma  Stake:  Marion  Turley. 
NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Auckland  Stake:  Auckland,  Auckland 
Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  College, 
Hamilton  and  Temple  View  Wards, 
formerly  branches  in  the  New  Zealand 
Mission. 

Bakersfield  Stake:  Bakersfield  Fourth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bakersfield 
First  Ward. 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake:  B. 
Y.  Campus  Nineteenth,  Twentieth, 
Twenty-First,  Twenty-Second,  Twenty- 
Third,  and  Twenty-Fourth  Wards, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

Burbank  Stake:  North  Hollywood 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
North  Hollywood  Second  Ward. 

Burley  Stake:  Burley  Seventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Burley  Fifth 
Ward;  Burley  Eighth  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Burley  Fourth  Ward. 

Chicago  Stake:  Milwaukee  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Milwaukee 
Ward. 

Covina  Stake:  La  Puente  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  La  Puente 
Ward. 

East  Jordan  Stake:  Butler  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Butler  Fourth 
Ward. 

East  Long  Beach  Stake:  Long  Beach 
Eighth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Long  Beach  Third  Ward. 

East  Los  Angeles  Stake:  Monterey 
Park  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Al- 
hambra,  Eastmont,  Belvedere,  and  Mis- 
sion Park  Wards. 

East  Mill  Creek  Stake:  East  Mill 
Creek  Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  East  Mill  Creek  Third  Ward. 

Flagstaff    Stake:    Flagstaff  Second 


40 

Saturday,  October  11 

Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Flagstaff 
Ward. 

Kearns  Stake:  Kearns  Twelfth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Kearns  Sixth 
Ward. 

Las  Vegas  Stake:  Las  Vegas  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
Third  and  Fourth  Wards. 

Long  Beach  Stake:  Long  Beach  Ninth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Long 
Beach  Fourth  Ward. 

Lorin  Farr  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty-Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Lorin  Farr 
and  Ogden  Seventh  Wards. 

Lost  River  Stake:  Arco  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Arco  Ward. 

Mill  Creek  Stake:  Mill  Creek  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mill  Creek 
Fifth  Ward. 

Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake:  Chino  Ward, 
formerly  Chino  Branch. 

New  York  Stake:  Montclair  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Short  Hills  and 
North  Tersey  Wards;  North  Jersey  Ward, 
formerly  North  Jersey  Branch. 

North  Idaho  Falls  Stake:  Ucon  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Ucon 
Ward. 

Ogden  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty-Seventh 
Ward,  formed  bv  division  of  Ogden 
Fourth  and  Sixth  Wards. 

Olvmous  Stake:  Holladav  Twelfth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Seventh  Ward:  Holladay  Thirteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Sixth  Ward. 

Oquirrh  Stake:  Lake  Ridge  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Soencer  and  Spen- 
cer Second  Wards:  Lake  Ridge  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Spencer  and 
Spencer  Second  Wards. 

Orem  West  Stake:  Orem  Twentieth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Orem  Fifth 
Ward:  Orem  Twenty -First  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Orem  Third  Ward. 

Phoenix  North  Stake:  Phoenix  Sev- 
enteenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Glendale  Second  Ward. 

Redondo  Stake:  Palos  Verdes  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Redondo  Ward. 

Reno  Stake:  Carson  City  Ward,  for- 
merly Carson  City  Branch. 

Richland  Stake:  Yakima  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Yakima  Ward. 

St.  Louis  Stake:  Alton,  Belleville,  East 
St.  Louis,  St.  Louis  First,  St.  Louis  Sec- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ond  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Central  States  Mission. 

San  Diego  Stake:  San  Diego  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  San  Diego 
Fifth  Ward. 

San  Diego  East  Stake:  El  Cajon  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of  El 
Cajon  Ward;  Chula  Vista  Second 
Ward  formed  by  division  of  Chula 
Vista  Ward. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Greenbrae  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Rafael  Ward. 

San  Joaquin  Stake:  Manteca  Ward, 
formerly  Manteca  Branch. 

San  Juan  Stake:  Blanding  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Blanding 
and  Grayson  Wards. 

Seattle  Stake:  Seattle  Tenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Seattle  Fourth 
Ward. 

Sharon  Stake:  Provo  Twenty- First 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Provo  Sev- 
enteenth Ward. 

South  Box  Elder  Stake:  Brigham  City 
Ninth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Brigham  City  Second  Ward;  Brigham 
City  Tenth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Brigham  City  Fifth  Ward;  Brigham  City 
Eleventh  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Brigham  City  Sixth  Ward. 

South  Ogden  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty- 
Eighth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Ogden  Thirty-Ninth  Ward. 

South  Salt  Lake  Stake:  Madison  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Kimball  and 
North  Central  Park  Wards. 

Utah  State  University  Stake:  Univer- 
sity Sixth  Ward,  formed  from  various 
wards. 

Yuma  Stake:  Blythe,  Brawley,  El 
Centro,  Wellton,  Yuma,  and  Yuma 
Second  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
California  Mission. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Auckland  Stake:  Auckland,  Auckland 
Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  College, 
Hamilton,  Temple  View  Wards  and 
Huntley  Branch,  formerly  branches  in 
the  New  Zealand  Mission. 

Bountiful  North  Stake:  Bountiful 
Fifth,  Tenth,  Twelfth,  Thirteenth,  West 
Bountiful,  and  West  Bountiful  Second 
Wards,  formerly  of  Bountiful  Stake. 

Bountiful  South  Stake:  Bountiful  Sec- 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


41 


ond,  Eighth,  and  Fifteenth  Wards,  for- 
merly of  Bountiful  Stake;  Bountiful 
Fourth,  Seventh,  and  Fourteenth  Wards, 
formerly  of  South  Davis  Stake. 

Granger  Stake:  Granger,  Granger 
Third,  Fifth,  Sixth,  Seventh,  Eighth, 
Redwood  and  Redwood  Second  Wards, 
formerly  of  North  Jordan  Stake. 

Olympus  Stake:  Holladay  Fifth,  Sixth, 
Seventh,  and  Ninth  Wards,  formerly  of 
Holladay  Stake. 

St.  Louis  Stake:  Alton,  Belleville,  East 
St.  Louis,  St.  Louis  First,  and  Second 
Wards;  Rolla  Branch,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

San  Diego  East  Stake:  San  Diego 
Second,  Ninth,  Chula  Vista,  El  Gajon, 
La  Mesa,  and  National  City  Wards, 
Spanish  -  American  and  Tijuana 
Branches,  formerly  of  San  Diego  Stake. 

Southern  Arizona  Stake:  Agua  Priete 
Branch,  transferred  to  the  Northern 
Mexican  Mission. 

Utah  State  University  Stake:  Univer- 
sity First  Ward,  formerly  of  East  Cache 
Stake.  , 

Yuma  Stake:  Blythe,  Brawley,  El  Cen- 
tro,  Wellton,  Yuma,  and  Yuma  Second 
Wards,  Calexico  and  Parker  Branches, 
formerly  branches  in  the  California 
Mission. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

East  Long  Beach  Stake:  La  Mirada 
Ward,  formerly  Norwalk  Fourth  Ward. 

East  Los  Angeles  Stake:  South  San 
Gabriel  Ward,  formerly  Mission  Park 
Ward. 

Raft  River  Stake:  Lynn  Ward,  former- 
ly Moulton  Ward. 

San  Juan  Stake:  Blanding  Second 
Ward,  formerly  Grayson  Ward. 

South  Summit  Stake:  Park  City  Ward, 
formerly  Park  City  Second  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Auckland  Stake:  Huntley  Branch,  for- 
merly a  branch  in  the  New  Zealand 
Mission. 

Dallas  Stake:  Paris  Branch,  formerly 
dependent  upon  Sherman  Ward. 

Grantsville  Stake:  Lake  Side  Branch, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Augusta  Branch, 


formed  by  division  of  Sun  River  Valley 
and  Fairfield  Wards;  Fort  Benton 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Great 
Falls  Second  Ward. 

Orlando  Stake:  Cocoa  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Melbourne  Ward  and 
New  Smyrna  Beach  Branch. 

Phoenix  North  Stake:  Wendon 
Branch,  formerly  dependent  upon  Wick- 
enburg  Ward. 

Richland  Stake:  North  Franklin 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Columbia 
Basin  and  Connell  Branches. 

St.  Louis  Stake:  Rolla  Branch,  formerly 
a  branch  in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Polynesian 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Chinese- 
Polynesian  Branch. 

San  Diego  Stake:  Coronado  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Diego  Ward. 

San  Jose  Stake:  Northern  California 
Branch  for  the  Deaf,  formed  from  var- 
ious wards;  Spanish-American  Branch, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Lamanite  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Healdsburg  and 
Sebastopol  Branches. 

Sevier  Stake :  Yoomeenchoopeets 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Richfield 
Fifth  Ward. 

Union  Stake:  Halfway  Branch,  for- 
merly dependent  upon  Baker  Ward. 

Virginia  Stake:  Beaverdam  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Richmond  Ward; 
Williamsburg  Branch,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Newport  News  Ward. 

Young  Stake:  Pagosa  Springs  Branch, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Western  States 
Mission. 

Yuma  Stake:  Calexico  and  Parker 
Branches,  formerly  branches  in  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Duchesne  Stake:  Fruitland  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Tabiona 
Ward. 

Lethbridge  Stake:  Vauxhall  Branch, 
now  dependent  upon  Taber  Second 
Ward. 

Roosevelt  Stake:  Montwel  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  Neola  and 
Roosevelt  Second  Wards. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Chinese-Poly- 
nesian Branch,  Chinese  membership  now 
dependent  upon  Bay  Ward. 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  11  Second  Day 

South  Summit  Stake:  Park  City  First    Officers,  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 

Ward,  membership  transferred  to  Park    the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 

City  Second  Ward.  this  General  Conference. 

TimcT!  ti/ij^.  uit/c  D/tccrn  4TT/4V  The  General  Authorities  in  our  meet- 
THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY    ing  Iast  Thursday  recommended  that  we 

Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the  add  another  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  s0  there  wil1  be  two  new  Assistants  pre- 

James  L.  Barker,  a  member  of  the  sented  to  you  this  morning  for  your 

Sunday  School  General  Board  and  for-  sustaining  vote, 
mer  president  of  the  Argentine  Mission 

and  the  French  Mission.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Claudious  Bowman,  president  of  the 
Mexican  Mission.  My  brethren  and  sisters:  We  have 

again  come  to  one  of  the  most  important 

President  David  O.  McKay:  functions  of  a  General  Conference,  to 

sustain  the  officers  of  the  Church,  Gen- 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  eral  Authorities,  and  the  officers  of  the 
Conference,  has  just  read  the  changes  in  Church  organizations.  As  I  have  said 
the  ward  and  stake  organizations  since  before,  this  is  not  a  pro-forma  function, 
our  last  Conference.  President  J.  Reuben  As  you  raise  your  hands  to  sustain  these 
Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency  will  officers,  you  solemnly  pledge  yourselves 
now  present  for  your  consideration  and  to  support  them.  Everyone  should  cast 
action  the  General  Authorities,  General  his  vote  with  that  thought  in  mind. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 
David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Richard  L.  Evans 

Mark  E.  Petersen  George  Q.  Morris 

Henry  D.  Moyle  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 
Alma  Sonne  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen  Henry  D.  Taylor 

John  Longden  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Richard  L.  Evans 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  George  Q.  Morris 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Hugh  B.  Brown 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 
Frank  W.  Asper 
Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

LeGrand  Richards  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Alma  Sonne  Carl  W.  Buehner 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  II  Second  Day 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  6.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  GarfF  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 

William  T.  Lawrence  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent 

Alvin  R.  Dyer,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

George  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  was  able 
to  determine,  the  voting  was  unanimous 
in  the  affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  your  unanimous  vote  in  the  affirma- 
tive. President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of 
the  First  Presidency  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  morning.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Albert  Theodore  Turtle. 


45 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brothers  and  sisters:  In  deep  hu- 
mility and  I  believe  a  realizing  sense,  at 
least  in  a  measure,  of  my  own  responsi- 
bility, holding  the  position  through  your 
sustaining  vote,  I  stand  before  you  ask- 
ing an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  the  few  remarks  I  may  make  will 
be  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I,  along  with  you,  am  a  believer  in 
prayer.  Prayer  is  the  royal  road  be- 
tween each  of  us  and  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Whether  it  remains  open  or  is 
closed  is  for  our  determination.  We  are 
a  Church,  with  all  that  we  have  re- 
ceived in  that  capacity  and  all  that  we, 
individually,  have  received,  as  the  re- 
sult of  prayer.  A  boy,  troubled,  uncer- 
tain, faithful,  desiring  to  know  the  will 
of  the  Lord  had  in  mind  those  great 
verses  from  James: 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  lib- 
erally, and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall 
be  given  him. 

"But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing 
wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth  is  like 
a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind 
and  tossed. 

"For  let  not  that  man  think  that  he 
shall  receive  any  thing  of  the  Lord." 
(James  1:5-7.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  went  into  the 
woods  in  his  innocent  faith  and  reliance, 
prayed  for  light  and  received  in  answer 
the  greatest  theophany  of  which  we 
have  any  record,  for  the  Father  and  the 
Son  came  to  him  in  person  and  told 
him  of  the  work  there  was  for  him  to 
do.  And  from  there  on,  the  line  of 
communication,  the  royal  line,  between 
him  and  our  Heavenly  Father  was 
never  broken. 

We  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  con- 
tinuous revelation.  We  advocate  it 
boldly  and  with  rightful  pride,  boast 
of  it.  It  is  seriously  challenged  by 
many,  by  many  great  Church  organiza- 
tions. But  I  would  like  to  challenge 
those  organizations  on  their  position. 
If,  as  they  contend,  God  no  longer  in- 
forms his  children,  advises  them  and 
counsels  them,  that  being  their  position, 
then  I  ask  them  why  they  pray.  The 


fact  that  they  pray  seems  to  me  to  give 
the  falsehood  to  their  opposition. 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  or  two 
about  prayer.  I  assume  that  all  of  us 
pray  because  we  want  what  we  pray 
for.  I  think  there  is  no  common  de- 
nominator for  all  the  peoples  of  the 
world  that  can  equal  the  desire  to  pray 
and  the  resulting  prayers.  We  do  not 
all  pray  alike.  We  do  not  all  pray  to 
the  same  God.  We  do  not  all  under- 
stand to  whom  we  address  our  prayers 
in  the  same  way.  But  the  commonest 
instinct  of  all  humanity  is  to  pray  to  a 
superior  Being,  some  Being  somewhere, 
of  some  kind,  who  knows  more  than  we 
know  and  who  has  the  power  to  change 
events  to  suit  our  prayers  if  he  so  de- 
sires. 

I  take  it  that  none  of  us  under  those 
circumstances  would  pray  for  something 
that  was  unwholesome  or  would  pray 
for  something  that  the  Lord  would  not 
approve  that  we  should  have.  We  do 
not  pray,  should  not  pray  for  the  bad, 
the  unwholesome  things  of  this  earth. 

I  recall  that  when  the  Savior  began 
his  mission  he  cleansed  the  temple.  He 
likewise  cleansed  it  at  the  close  of 
his  mission,  driving  out  the  money- 
changers, driving  out  those  who  bought 
and  sold  animals  for  a  sacrifice.  He 
declared,  ".  .  .  ye  have  made  it  [his 
house]  a  den  of  thieves."  (Luke  19:46.) 

I  take  it  that  none  of  us  would  wish 
to  pray  for  anything  that  would  bring 
us  within  that  classification.  We  nor- 
mally think  of  it,  these  incidents,  as 
being  indications  of  the  violation  of  the 
sanctity  of  the  temple.  But  I  think  the 
rebuke  goes  below  and  beyond  that. 

Where  should  we  pray?  Amulek  is 
quoted  in  Alma  as  telling  us  about  this. 
I  have  a  feeling  that  it  should  be  our 
business  never  to  go  anywhere  where 
we  cannot  ask  our  Heavenly  Father  for 
his  protection  and  approval.  It  is  a  sad 
thing  to  consider  that  sometime  we 
might  be  where  we  could  not  ask  the 
Lord  for  his  help. 

We  might  pray,  I  think  usually,  per- 
haps always,  with  the  admonition  which 
the  Lord  gave  when  he  taught  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


46 

Saturday,  October  11 

multitude  how  to  pray,  the  admonition 
being  that  the  Lord  knows  more  of 
what  you  need  than  you  know  your- 
selves, and  then  he  taught  us  a  very 
short  prayer,  all  embracing,  and  as  I 
recall  it,  he  there  uttered  a  warning 
not  to  use  too  many  words  and  pray 
as  the  pagans  pray. 

Another  thing — the  Lord  knows,  as  I 
have  just  indicated,  what  we  need.  I 
have  a  feeling  that  we  should  make 
praying  a  habit.  I  am  not  speaking  of 
morning  and  evening  prayers  only.  I 
feel  that  we  should  pray  whenever  we 
need  prayer,  and  whenever  we  need 
the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
that  is  most  of  our  lives.  And  if  we 
shall  be  where  we  must  pray  or  may 
pray,  always  our  lives  must  be  in  ac- 
cordance therewith. 

I  have  always  been  somewhat  im- 
pressed with  the  story  of  Elijah  and  the 
prophets  of  Baal.  They  built  their 
altars.  They  implored  their  god,  the 
priests  of  Baal  did.  Elijah  said,  as  the 
day  wore  on,  "Cry  aloud:  for  he  is  a 
god;  either  he  is  talking,  or  he  is  pur- 
suing, or  he  is  in  a  journey,  or  perad- 
venture  he  sleepeth,  and  must  be 
awakened."  (I  Kings  18:27.)  I  do  not 
think  we  ought  to  give  the  Lord  any 
opportunity  to  feel  that  we  have  for- 
gotten him  or  that  he  is  asleep.  Let  us 
pray  always,  not  just  in  emergencies. 

Another  thing — let  us  not  try  to  tell 
the  Lord  what  to  do.  I  will  not  take 
time  to  narrate  that  beautiful  story  of 
Naaman,  the  Syrian  general,  who  came 
to  have  his  leprosy  cured  by  Elisha, 
who  was  insulted  because  Elisha  sent 
word  to  go  and  bathe  seven  times  in  the 
Jordan  River.  Naaman  declared  that 
the  rivers  out  in  Syria  were  as  good  as 
Elisha's  rivers.  He  had  thought  Elisha 
would  come  out,  strike  an  attitude, 
place  his  hand  over  the  afflicted  part 
and  then  speak  to  his  God  to  heal 
Naaman.  You  will  remember  when  he 
hesitated  and  was  insulted  by  Elisha's 
direction,  his  servants  came  and  said 
that  if  Elisha  had  told  him  to  do  some- 
thing great  he  would  have  gone  and 
done  it,  and  then,  not  exactly  in  these 
words,  but,  "Why  don't  you  try  it?" 
He  did  try  and  he  was  healed. 

There  are  one  or  two  incidents  in  the 
Savior's  life  to  which  I  would  like  to 


Second  Day 

refer.  I  am  thinking  of  the  closing 
hours  of  his  freedom,  a  day  or  two  be- 
fore the  day  of  the  Passover.  He  had 
been  in  the  temple,  and  he  prayed  to 
the  Lord,  saying,  or  indicating  that  he 
wished  that  this  hour  about  to  come 
could  pass,  and  yet  said  he,  ".  .  .  but 
for  this  cause  came  I  unto  this  hour." 
(John  12:27.) 

Then  he  went  to  Gethsemane.  I  will 
not  take  time  to  relate  the  details  of 
that  great  occasion.  But  I  urge  you  to 
read  them  and  ponder  them.  Three 
times  he  left  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
and  went  on  a  little  farther  and  prayed. 
The  first  time,  the  second  time,  and  the 
third  time,  he  came  back  and  found 
them  sleeping.  "What,  could  ye  not 
watch  with  me  one  hour?"  But  I  call 
your  attention  to  each  prayer:  "Father, 
if  thou  be  willing,  remove  this  cup  from 
me:  nevertheless  not  my  will,  but  thine, 
be  done." 

Three  times  he  went  to  the  Father, 
having  earlier  indicated  that  he  knew 
his  hour  was  come.  I  have  never  been 
able  to  understand  that.  But  I  can 
understand  the  central  thought  of  that 
prayer — "Nevertheless  not  my  will,  but 
thine,  be  done." 

And  I  urge  on  you,  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  when  you  pray,  let  that 
central  thought  always  be  with  you, 
and  do  not  always  expect  that  the  an- 
swer to  your  prayer  will  come  in  the 
way  in  which  you  desire  it 

I  think  in  that  connection,  though 
not  strictly  in  point,  of  the  time  when 
Elijah  fled  from  the  angry  Jezebel.  He 
went  to  a  cave.  He  was  lonesome.  He 
was  fleeing  for  his  life,  obedient  to  the 
Lord's  command.  He  lamented  his  lot 
greatly  to  the  Lord;  he  stood  forth  upon 
the  mount,  waiting  for  the  Lord.  There 
came  a  great  wind  that  rent  the  rocks, 
but  the  Lord  was  not  in  the  wind. 
After  the  wind,  an  earthquake,  but  the 
Lord  was  not  in  the  earthquake.  After 
the  earthquake,  a  fire,  but  the  Lord  was 
not  in  the  fire.  Then  the  Lord  came 
in  a  still,  small  voice,  and  Elijah, 
wrapping  his  face  in  his  mantle,  came 
to  the  mouth  of  the  cave  and  received 
the  words  of  the  Lord. 

The  Lord  speaks  in  gentle  terms  as 
well  as  in  terms  of  great  catastrophe 
and  grief. 


ELDER  ALBERT  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


47 


Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  continue 
to  be  a  praying  people.  Let  us  pray, 
keeping  in  mind  some  of  the  great 
principles  involved  therein.  Let  us  go 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  his  advice, 
his  counsel,  his  help.  He  will  always 
answer  if  we  are  righteous  in  our  ask- 
ing, and  if  we  are  asking  for  righteous 
things  that  would  be  for  our  good  and 
benefit. 

The  great  foundation  in  one  way  of 
this  Church  is  the  doctrine  of  continu- 
ous revelation,  continuous  revelation  to 
the  individual,  to  the  leaders  of  the 
Church,  all  for  our  good  and  benefit 
and  for  the  advancement  of  his  work. 


May  God  give  us  this  spirit  of  prayer, 
may  God  give  us  the  power  to  pray  and 
may  we  pray  always  with  that  great 
central  thought  in  mind,  "nevertheless 
not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done."  I  ask 
this  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Will  Brother 
Critchlow  and  Brother  Dyer  please  take 
their  places  here  on  the  rostrum. 


ELDER  ALBERT  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay,  my  beloved  brothers 
and  sisters:  This  has  been  a  glorious 
six  months — glorious  not  in  the  fact 
that  I  have  been  able  to  meet  the  chal- 
lenges which  almost  daily  pertain  to 
this  call,  but  glorious  in  the  opportunity 
of  teaching  the  gospel  and  of  meeting 
with  the  Saints.  May  I  take  this  occa- 
sion to  express  my  gratitude  to  those 
who  have  been  so  kind  and  hospitable 
to  me. 

I  would  like  to  extend  my  personal 
welcome  to  President  Critchlow  and 
Elder  Dyer.  I  know  the  reception  they 
are  going  to  receive  from  these  Brethren. 
This  has  been  a  glorious  six  months  in 
association  with  these  men.  They  have 
been  kind,  considerate,  and  helpful. 
When  you  consider  the  varied  talents 
they  bring  and  the  many  walks  of  life 
that  this  group  of  men  represent,  when 
you  know  the  individual  strength  and 
power  that  they  bring,  it  is  a  marvelous 
thing  to  me  to  see  the  harmonious,  in- 
telligent unity  that  exists  among  these 
brethren. 

And  as  I  understand  it,  it  is  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Church  to  develop  and  ex- 
tend this  unity  and  brotherhood 
throughout  the  world. 

How  can  peace  come  without  brother- 
hood? What  is  peace?  Is  peace  the 
cessation  of  hostilities?  Is  peace  a  cold, 
rather  than  a  hot  war?  Is  peace  co- 
existence? Is  peace  to  live  and  let  live? 
Is  peace  a  relationship  based  on  force? 


Is  peace  servitude  and  slavery  based  on 
power?  What  is  it  that  brings  peace: 
arms,  bombs,  pacts,  arbitration,  and 
compromise?  What  perpetuates  peace: 
armies  and  navies,  planes  and  missiles, 
and  anti-missile  missiles?  What  is  the 
basis  of  peace?  Is  it  based  on  a  balance 
of  power?  I  think  that  each  one  of  us 
would  have  to  answer  that  it  is  none  of 
these,  and  that  at  best  they  are  but 
temporary  measures. 

What  is  peace  based  on?  May  I  try 
to  illustrate  it  with  a  story  with  which  I 
think  many  of  you  are  acquainted.  It 
is  entitled  "Abram  and  Zimri"  by  Clar- 
ence Cook.  Two  brothers  farmed  to- 
gether. Abram  had  a  wife  and  seven 
sons.  Zimri  lived  alone.  At  harvest 
time  the  crop  was  divided  equally. 
Zimri  lay  in  bed  and  thought:  "Here 
am  I,  just  one  mouth  to  feed,  while 
my  brother  Abram  has  a  wife  and  many 
sons.  I  must  go  to  the  field  and  share 
my  half  with  my  brother,  Abram."  So 
he  girded  himself  and  went  down  and 
gave  a  generous  third  of  his  portion  to 
his  brother. 

Abram,  on  the  other  hand,  thought 
that  same  night:  "Here  am  I  with  a 
wife  and  seven  sons — someone  to  share 
my  load  and  to  work  with  me.  Here  is 
my  brother,  Zimri,  he  works  alone  and 
has  no  one  to  help.  I  shall  gird  myself 
and  go  down  to  the  field  and  share  my 
portion  with  him."  And  he  took  a 
generous  third  and  put  it  with  Zimri's 


48  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  11 

sheaves.  The  next  morning  the  sheaves 
were  the  same. 

The  next  night,  determined  to  change 
it,  Zimri  went  again  to  the  field  and 
carried  another  third  from  his  pile  to 
his  brother,  Abram's,  and  then  lay  in 
the  field  to  watch.  Soon  Abram  came 
and  took  his  sheaves  and  put  them  with 
his  brother's  share.  Then  Clarence 
Cook  closes  with  these  words:  "And 
Zimri  arose  and  caught  him  in  his  arms, 
and  wept  upon  his  neck,  and  kissed  his 
cheek;  and  Abram  saw  the  whole,  and 
could  not  speak;  neither  could  Zimri, 
for  their  hearts  were  full." 

Now,  as  I  read  the  record  of  history, 
there  is  but  one  force  strong  enough  to 
motivate  a  universal  acceptance  of 
brotherhood.  That  is,  the  acceptance 
of  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  di- 
vine Sonship  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  thence  all  men  as  brothers.  This 
has  been  the  power  that  has  united 
men  in  the  past.  This  has  been  the 
plan  of  our  Heavenly  Father  from  the 
beginning,  and  it  is  no  illusion.  It  has 
worked.  We  all  know  the  story  of 
Enoch  who  taught  this  gospel  plan  to 
his  brethren,  and  when  it  was  accepted 
they  lived  happily — so  much  so  that 
the  Lord  walked  and  talked  with  them, 
and  took  them. 

A  similar  unity  of  brotherhood  oc- 
curred on  this  continent  after  the  Lord 
had  been  here  and  taught  his  gospel  to 
the  Nephites.  I  quote  the  account  of 
the  condition  that  existed  for  two  hun- 
dred years  afterward: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was 
no  contention  in  the  land,  because  of 
the  love  of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people. 

"And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor 
strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms,  nor 
lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of 
lasciviousness;  and  surely  there  could 
not  be  a  happier  people  among  all  the 
people  who  had  been  created  by  the 
hand  of  God. 

"There  were  no  robbers,  nor  mur- 
derers, neither  were  there  Lamanites, 


Second  Day 

nor  any  manner  of  -ites;  but  they  were 
in  one,  the  children  of  Christ,  and  heirs 
to  the  kingdom  of  God."  (4  Nephi  15- 

Now,  this  blessed  condition  is  attain- 
able today,  but  it  is  attainable  only 
upon  the  basis  of  accepting  God  as 
Father  and  all  men  as  brothers  and  liv- 
ing the  plan  of  salvation.  My  testimony 
is  that  this  plan,  which  the  Lord  intro- 
duced in  the  beginning  with  Adam,  and 
that  has  successfully  brought  about  true 
brotherhood  in  the  past,  has  been  re- 
stored; that  the  priesthood  that  acti- 
vates it  and  operates  it  is  in  our  midst, 
and  that  the  leaders  thereof  in  this 
Church  are  servants  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  This  plan  is  bringing  about  a 
true  brotherhood  in  this  day  and  it  is 
up  to  you  and  me  to  make  it  function 
even  more  perfectly.  To  show  our  ap- 
preciation for  the  privilege  we  have  of 
belonging  to  this  great  brotherhood, 
may  we  be  ever  willing  to  share  it 
with  all  of  our  brothers  and  sisters,  I 
humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking. 

The  Congregation  and  Choir  will  now 
sing,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  Sister 
Madsen  will  lead  us. 


The  congregation  and  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What 
Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  will  take  a  few  moments  at  this 
time  to  introduce  to  you  the  two  Assist- 
ants to  the  Twelve.  Elder  Critchlow, 
will  you  please  come  forward.  Elder 
William  J.  Critchlow,  now  president  of 
the  South  Ogden  Stake,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


49 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  please  do  not  hold  anything  I 
may  say  against  me  this  morning.  I  am 
still  in  a  partial  state  of  shock.  Truth- 
fully, my  senses  are  dulled  by  a  sense 
of  fear — fear  that  I  shall  not  be  able 
to  measure  up  to  the  stature  of  these 
men  whom  you  have  sustained  as  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  feel  a  good  deal  like  that  elder  whom 
I  called  to  be  the  president  of  a  quorum 
last  week.  He  said,  "Oh,  President 
Critchlow,  I  am  not  worthy  of  that 
honor.  I  do  not  measure  up  to  such 
responsibility."  I  took  him  by  the  hand 
and  said,  "You  can  do  it.  I  want  you 
to  do  it."   He  accepted. 

Yesterday,  noon,  when  President  Mc- 
Kay interviewed  me  for  this  position, 
I  found  myself  not  only  feeling  like 
that  elder  but  also  talking  like  him  and 
telling  him  that  I  was  not  worthy  and 
that  I  did  not  measure  up  to  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  the  calling.  President 
McKay  took  my  hand  in  just  about  the 
same  way  as  I  took  that  elder's  hand 
and  said,  "You  can  do  it.  I  want  you 
to  take  it.  Now,  go  tell  your  wife." 

I  have  a  good  wife,  a  lovely  wife,  who 
has  sustained  me  and  supported  me 
through  the  years — nearly  a  quarter  of  a 
century.  She  has  kept  the  home  fires 
burning.  She  has  trained  our  children, 
and  has  done  a  marvelous  job.  Our 
family  has  come  first.  The  Lord  en- 
trusted us  with  precious  spirits,  and  he 
expects  their  parents  to  care  for  them, 
and  that  is  what  we — my  wife  and  I — 
have  tried  to  do.  We  have  tried  not 
to  neglect  our  Church  work. 

My  children,  all  three  of  them,  will 
support  me.  I  had  anticipated  a  release 
as  a  stake  president  soon,  and  my  wife 
and  I  had  planned  to  circulate  around 
— among  some  of  our  friends  and  our 
kin  with  whom  we  have  not  mingled 
for  a  long  time.  Well,  Mama — our 
plans  will  have  to  be  changed,  but  I 
know  you  will  not  complain,  nor  will 
my  children. 

My  youngest  son,  not  too  long  out 
of  his  teens,  is  a  counselor  to  a  bishop 
in  one  of  the  Ogden  stakes.  My  other 
son  graduated  this  spring  from  a  law 


school  in  Washington,  D.  C;  while 
there  he  served  in  the  stake  mission  as 
an  assistant  to  Elder  Benson's  son,  who 
was  the  president  of  the  Washington 
Stake  mission.  My  daughter,  despite  her 
youth,  is  the  president  of  a  ward  Relief 
Society  in  one  of  the  wards  here  in  Salt 
Lake  City.  They  have  all  been  mar- 
ried in  the  temple.  I  am  proud  of 
them. 

When  Dr.  Widtsoe  set  me  apart  as 
stake  president,  he  promised  me  that  I 
should  be  successful.  If  I  have  attained 
any  measure  of  success,  it  is  reflected  in 
my  family.  I  am  one  of  those  who  like 
to  believe  that  the  real  measure  of  suc- 
cess is  a  man's  family. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  a 
strong  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  have 
that  conviction  which  President  Rich- 
ards spoke  of  yesterday,  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  I  so  sustain  him.  I  love  that  man. 
We  love  him  in  Ogden.  All  Weber 
County  loves  him.  He  is  our  own.  He 
is  from  Weber  County  and  maintains 
a  part  time  residence  there.  And  we 
loved  his  brother,  whose  place  I  seem 
to  be  taking  among  the  Assistants  to  the 
Twelve.  I  hope  that  in  time  the  people 
of  Weber  County  may  come  to  respect 
and  love  me  as  they  loved  Thomas  E. 
McKay. 

There  is  another  one  of  the  General 
Authorities  whom  the  people  of  Weber 
County  love  and  respect,  and  he  is  Presi- 
dent S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  There  are  many 
young  men  in  Weber  County,  and 
many  parents  who  will  be  eternally 
grateful  to  President  Young  for  the  help 
he  gave  youth  when  he  was  the  execu- 
tive of  our  Boy  Scout  Council  in  the 
Ogden  area. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have 
learned  through  experience  that  much 
of  the  real  joy  that  comes  into  one's  life, 
comes  as  a  by-product  of  service.  I 
think  I  shall  have  to  explain  that  term 
by-product.  Let  me  illustrate  it.  One 
winter  evening — a  blizzard  raged  out- 
side— I  had  just  settled  in  a  cozy  chair 
with  a  newspaper  and  a  book,  to  spend 
a  comfortable  evening  at  home.  My 


50 

Saturday,  October  11 

wife  interrupted  my  pleasure,  saying, 
"Daddy,  if  you  finish  your  ward  teach- 
ing (I  was  ward  teaching  at  the  time) 
you  will  have  to  do  it  tonight,  for  to- 
morrow night  you  have  this,  the  next 
night  you  have  that.  Get  it  done, 
Daddy,  tonight!"  And  then  to  strengthen 
her  request  she  brought  me  my  coat 
and  hat  and  sent  me  forth. 

Well,  that's  the  kind  of  a  wife  I  have. 
Now,  it  was  not  pleasant,  and  I  was 
not  happy  about  going  out  in  the  storm 
to  do  that  ward  teaching.  It  was  such 
a  stormy  night,  snowing  and  blowing, 
but  I  went.  I  walked  down  the  street, 
a  mother  across  the  way,  holding  a 
critically  ill  baby  saw  me  enter  a  home. 
She  recognized  me  when  the  door  was 
opened  and  the  light  silhouetted  me. 
She  phoned  and  asked  if  I  would  come 
and  administer  to  her  baby.  I  sought 
help  and  complied.  She  was  a  young 
mother  whose  husband  had  been  drafted 
into  the  army.  She  was  living  alone 
in  a  neighborhood  where  she  was  prac- 
tically unknown.  She  needed  help,  and 
the  baby  needed  a  blessing. 

Back  in  my  home,  later  that  night,  I 
sat  again  in  my  comfortable  chair  and 
resumed  my  newspaper  reading.  Pres- 
ently a  feeling  came  into  my  soul  that 
you  brethren  know  all  about,  a  feeling 
of  joy.  I  did  not  go  out  that  night 
seeking  that  joy — it  came  to  me  as  a 
by-product  of  my  service.  Happiness, 
much  of  it,  is  a  by-product  of  service. 

Let  me  illustrate  again.  One  morning, 
soon  after  the  war,  the  co-ordinator  in 
our  welfare  region,  came  to  one  of  my 
wards  and  made  an  announcement.  He 
reported  that  our  government  had  made 
it  possible  for  us  to  send  to  our  kin  and 
friends  in  Europe  small  packages  of 
clothing  and  food  which  these  overseas 
folks  sorely  needed.  He  said,  "Clean  up 
some,  old  clothes,  bring  them  to  the 
storehouse  where  they  will  be  packaged 
in  sixteen-inch  cartons  and  sent  to  your 
kin  and  friends  overseas."  How  the 
members  of  our  Church  responded  to 
that  general  request  you  folks  well  know. 
He  further  related  an  incident  of  the 
previous  day — when  the  news  was  ini- 
tially released,  which  involved  a  man 
who  hearing  the  good  news  promptly — 
even  on  the  spot — shed  his  overcoat  and 
said,  "Send  that."    Then  he  went  out 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  bought  a  pair  of  shoes  and  said, 
"Send  these."  After  the  co-ordinator's 
announcement  a  little  girl  arose  and 
told  a  story  about  happy  shoes.  This 
is  not  the  way  she  told  it,  but  this  is 
the  way  I  seem  to  have  heard  it. 

Once  upon  a  time,  there  was  a  king 
in  a  land  overseas  where  the  people 
were  unhappy.  I  suppose  they  had  been 
at  war  and  were  hungry  and  cold,  and 
the  king  was  therefore  unhappy.  There 
was  a  tradition  in  the  land  that  some- 
where in  this  little  kingdom  was  a  pair 
of  happy  shoes,  and  whosoever  should 
wear  them  would  be  happy.  So  the 
king  sent  out  his  soldiers  and  servants 
in  search  of  the  happy  shoes.  Day 
after  day  they  sought  them,  and  then 
one  evening  as  two  of  the  servants  were 
returning  to  the  king's  palace,  they 
passed  a  hut  from  which  came  the 
strains  of  a  song.  Now,  the  people  in 
this  kingdom  were  in  no  mood  for 
singing.  These  servants  had  not  en- 
countered it  before.  When  they  heard 
this  song,  they  stopped  to  listen.  You 
know  the  song.  These  are  the  words: 

"We  thank  you  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

Before  the  song  was  ended,  they 
rushed  into  the  hut  and  found  there  an 
elderly  man  sitting  alone  by  candle- 
light. They  said,  "You  sing.  Are  you 
happy?"  He  answered,  "Yes,  I  am 
happy."  "Then  let  us  have  your  shoes," 
they  said.  "You  must  have  the  happy 
shoes."  They  immediately  discovered 
that  he  had  no  shoes.  Fragments  of 
leather  were  tied  on  his  feet  with  rags. 
The  servants  went  their  way. 

What  they  never  knew,  however,  was 
this:  The  next  day  someone  brought 
him  a  sixteen-inch  long  carton.  He 
opened  it  carefully.  There  on  top  was 
an  overcoat.  Under  the  coat  was  some 
underwear,  and  on  the  bottom  of  the 
package  was  a  pair  of  shoes.  He  picked 
the  shoes  up  and  hugging  them  to  his 
bosom  said,  "I  have  the  happy  shoes." 
He  then  tore  the  rags  from  his  feet  and, 
thrusting  his  feet  into  the  shoes,  he 
felt  something.  He  took  it  out.  It  was 
a  note,  which  read:  "From  your  friend, 
John  Doe,  blank  address,  Ogden,  Utah." 
He  sat  down  and  wrote  a  tear-stained 
letter  to  John  Doe  which  he  concluded 
by  saying,  "I  am  the  happiest  man  in 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


51 


the  world.  I  have  the  happy  shoes." 
But  he  was  not  the  happiest  man  in  the 
world.  You  know  who  was.  When 
John  Doe,  blank  address,  Ogden  Utah, 
received  that  tear-stained  letter,  he  also 
shed  tears  of  joy  and  deep  down  in  his 
heart  he  sincerely  believed  that  he — 
John  Doe — was  the  happier  man,  for 
the  moment  at  least. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  testify  to  you 
that  happiness  is  a  by-product  of  serv- 
ice. May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  and  may 
he  bless  me  in  particular  that  I  may 


have  the  strength  and  the  courage  to 
carry  on  successfully  in  this  new  calling, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  heard  William  J. 
Critchlow,  Jr.  whom  you  sustained  this 
morning  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Alvin  R. 
Dyer,  whom  you  sustained  also. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Early  yesterday  morning  I  received 
two  very  important  telephone  calls.  One 
was  from  President  McKay,  and  the 
other  was  from  a  young  man  who  was 
a  priest  in  my  class  when  I  was  a  bishop. 
The  time  that  passed  from  President 
McKay's  call  until  I  reached  his  office 
seemed  almost  like  an  eternity,  but  in 
actuality  it  was  only  about  thirty  min- 
utes. I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  it  is  a  moment  of 
great  pressure  as  well  as  inspiration  to 
sit  closely  facing  the  President  of  our 
Church,  a  prophet  of  God  in  this  dis- 
pensation, and  be  called  to  serve  in  such 
a  capacity  as  this. 

As  you  look  into  the  face  of  this 
wonderful  man,  your  life  suddenly  be- 
comes bare,  and  then  there  is  a  surge 
of  gratitude  that  comes  over  you,  a 
gratitude  not  because  you  have  person- 
ally been  called  to  serve  but  because 
you  have  inherent  in  your  heart  a  desire 
to  serve,  and  I  am  so  grateful  for  that 
feeling.  It  is  not  because  of  any  abili- 
ties that  I  may  have  that  I  have  accepted 
the  call,  but  because  it  is  in  my  heart 
to  serve  the  Lord. 

I  think  it  was  Nathaniel  Baldwin,  the 
great  philanthropist,  a  very  generous 
giver,  who  made  the  statement  that  he 
was  grateful  not  so  much  for  the  ability 
to  give  as  for  the  desire  he  had  to  give. 
I  recall  so  vividly  the  Lord,  in  speaking 
to  the  tired,  worn,  and  weary  Saints  in 
the  early  days  in  Missouri,  when  he  said 
unto  them,  in  substance:  "Be  not  weary 
in  well  doing,  for  you  are  laying  the 
foundation  of  a  great  work,  and  the 
Lord  requires  the  willing  heart,"  (see 


D  &  C  64:33-34)  and  then  he  proceeded 
to  say  that  if  you  do  not  have  a  willing 
heart  to  serve  you  are  not  of  the  blood 
of  Ephraim.  So,  I  am  grateful  in  my 
heart  for  the  desire  to  serve  the  Lord 
in  whatever  capacity  I  may  be  called 
to  serve. 

This  young  man  who  called  me  al- 
most five  minutes  after  President  Mc- 
Kay called  yesterday  said,  "Bishop,  I  am 
one  of  the  rascals  who  used  to  be  in 
your  priests  class.  I  have  been  made  a 
bishop,  and  I  need  some  help.  Will 
you  spend  some  time  with  me  today?" 
And  I  had  the  great  joy  of  spending 
some  time  with  him  yesterday.  But  I 
feel  the  same  way  that  he  felt.  I  need 
some  help,  and  I  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  from  the  many  opportuni- 
ties that  have  come  to  me  to  serve  the 
Lord,  that  if  I  will  do  my  part,  the 
Lord  will  bless  me,  will  lift  me  up, 
and  give  me  the  strength  and  the  un- 
derstanding to  accomplish  the  work  that 
is  before  me. 

I  think  one  of  the  great  sermons  that 
has  been  delivered  in  this  Church  was 
delivered  at  Far  West,  Missouri,  when 
Heber  C.  Kimball  delivered  what  is 
known  in  our  writings  as  the  "clay 
sermon,"  and  in  it  he  said  that  we 
should  be  as  clay  to  be  molded  as  the 
Lord  would  mold  us,  and  to  do  the  will 
of  the  Lord.  His  sermon  was  acclaimed 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  one  of 
the  great  contributions  to  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Fulness  of  Times  in  the 
reflection  of  the  attitude  that  we  should 
have  in  serving  the  Lord. 

It  seems  natural,  my  brethren  and 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  11 

sisters,  at  a  time  like  this,  to  reflect  with 
gratitude  on  the  many  influences  that 
come  into  your  life.  I  think  of  my 
grandparents  and  have  since  yesterday 
morning,  of  their  great  devotion  in  ac- 
cepting the  gospel  and  coming  across 
the  waters  many  years  ago.  The  other 
day  I  had  a  letter  from  my  brother  who 
is  now  serving  a  mission  in  England, 
and  he  said  that  he  had  visited  an  old 
church  in  Coventry,  England,  and  there 
on  a  stone  plaque  are  engraved  the 
words:  "The  Church  of  the  Dyer  Guild." 
I  am  grateful,  as  I  re-read  this  letter,  in 
the  knowledge  that  we  have  had  the 
great  privilege  of  doing  the  temple  work 
for  more  than  three  thousand  of  this 
guild. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  grandparents 
who  eventually  made  this  possible,  and 
to  my  mother  and  father,  who  are  not 
here  upon  the  earth,  but  whose  influ- 
ence I  feel  today,  for  their  faith  and 
their  great  love  of  the  gospel.  I  am  so 
eternally  grateful  for  my  missionary 
companion  wife,  who  stood  by  my  side, 
not  only  in  the  mission  field,  but  also 
when  I  served  as  bishop,  and  in  other 
positions  in  the  Church,  always  en- 
couraging me  to  perform  my  responsi- 
bilities, and  always  seemingly  making 
it  easy  for  me  to  do  so.  I  am  grateful 
to  her  for  her  great  faith  and  devotion. 
I  got  so  used  to  having  her  by  my  side 
that  recently  as  I  have  traveled  to  a 
number  of  MIA  conventions  I  have 
found  myself  nudging  Sister  Bennett  or 
Sister  Longden,  thinking  that  my  wife 
was  still  by  my  side. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  fine  stalwart 
son,  whom  I  have  never  heard  utter  a 
word  of  profanity;  for  his  clean  life, 
and  for  his  great  zeal  to  seek  for  an 
education;  now  at  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, and  who  has  a  desire  to  go  on 
a  mission.  I  am  grateful  for  my  won- 
derful daughter.  These  are  our  two 
children,  but  they  are  wonderful,  and 
I  am  grateful  for  them  and  for  their 
love  of  the  gospel  and  for  their  support 
of  our  work. 

I  am  grateful  to  Nephi  L.  Morris, 
who  was  once  my  stake  president,  and 
Bishop  Edwin  F.  Parry,  and  George 
Lund,  my  scoutmaster;  grateful  for  my 
brother  Gus  who  has  always  lived  by  a 
high  spiritual  concept.   These  are  men 


Second  Day 

that  I  think  of  now  as  I  gird  for  the 
responsibility  that  will  be  mine  in  this 
calling. 

President  McKay  has  always  been  a 
great  ideal  of  mine.  I  have  always 
looked  up  to  him,  tried  to  assimilate 
some  of  the  great  characteristics  which 
he  has.  You  cannot  be  in  his  presence 
and  hold  his  hand,  and  have  him  pierce 
your  countenance  with  his  wonderful 
eyes  without  feeling  truly  that  here  is 
a  prophet  of  God.  I  am  grateful  for 
President  McKay;  for  President  Rich- 
ards, with  whom  I  became  so  closely 
associated  in  missionary  work,  and  for 
his  great  devotion  and  faith  and  de- 
termination to  serve  the  Lord  even 
against  adversity;  and  for  President 
Clark  who  has  expressed  so  many  kind- 
nesses to  me  and  my  family. 

I  am  grateful  to  these  men,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  to  the  others  of 
the  General  Authorities,  all  of  whom  I 
know,  and  many  of  them  intimately. 
I  am  grateful  for  them.  I  sustain  them 
with  all  my  heart,  and  will  endeavor 
to  do  their  bidding  and  to  follow  their 
wishes  and  desires  as  I  go  forward  in 
this  work. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  associates  in  the 
MIA.  I  do  not,  as  yet,  have  my  bags 
unpacked  from  the  mission  field,  but  I 
am  grateful  for  the  time  that  I  have 
had  with  these  wonderful  men  and 
women  who  are  so  devoted  to  the  cause 
of  youth,  for  I  feel  very  strongly  the 
great  obligation  we  have  to  preserve 
the  integrity  of  our  young  people,  and 
know  of  the  great  responsibilities  that 
devolve  upon  this  organization  to  carry 
that  work  forward. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  it  is  true. 
I  know  with  every  fiber  of  my  being 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  a  reality;  that  he 
is  the  Son  of  God;  that  he  is  divine; 
that  he  is  not  an  ethereal  substance;  that 
he  is  a  glorified  resurrected  Being,  as  he 
is  proclaimed  to  be  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

I  bear  record  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  of  God;  that  in  reality  he  did 
see  God  the  Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  he  has  given  to  us 
through  divine  bestowals  all  of  the 
needed  things  to  bring  exaltation,  joy, 
and  happiness  to  mankind. 

And  I  know  that  this  is  his  Church, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


53 


and  that  if  we  will  be  faithful  and  true 
in  it,  and  serve  him  as  we  ought  to, 
adjusting  our  lives  to  the  things  that 
are  needful,  we  will  find  the  joy  that 
he  has  promised;  and  I  leave  this  testi- 
mony with  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker.  We  have  just 
listened  to  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  whom 
we  sustained  today  as  an  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters:  Attendance 
at  this  conference  is  a  great  privilege. 
This  historic  tabernacle  filled  to  capa- 
city, mostly  with  Church  leaders  is  an 
evidence  of  the  spectacular  growth  of 
the  Church.  Every  week  there  are  many 
changes  in  leadership  in  stakes,  wards, 
branches,  and  missions.  Good  people 
are  released  and  others  are  sustained  in 
their  places,  sometimes  because  of  death 
or  moving,  often  to  relieve  those  who  are 
ill  or  weary;  frequently  to  give  others 
opportunity  to  serve.  This  has  gone 
forward  since  the  beginning  of  time 
and  the  Lord's  program  has  not  varied 
much  through  the  centuries. 

Two  General  Authorities  visit  a  stake 
conference  and  return  having  installed 
one  good  man  to  replace  another  who 
has  served  well  and  made  a  noteworthy 
contribution. 

The  process  follows  a  rather  definite 
pattern: 

1st:  The  need  for  the  new  leader; 

2nd:  The  leader  is  chosen  through  the 
process  of  elimination  by  prophecy  and 
revelation; 

3rd:  The  newly  chosen  one  is  offi- 
cially called  by  one  with  unquestionable 
authority; 

4th:  He  is  presented  to  a  constituent 
assembly  of  the  people,  and 

5th:  He  is  ordained  or  set  apart  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  by  those  who  are 
fully  authorized. 

And  this  is  in  keeping  with  our  fifth 
Article  of  Faith: 

"We  believe  that  a  man  must  be 
called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are 
in  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel  and 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof." 

Today  you  have  participated  in  that 
established  pattern  of  the  call  to  high 
service.    You  have  taken  part  in  a 


meaningful  procedure.  You  have  seen 
the  filling  of  a  vacancy  in  high  places. 
Some  weeks  ago  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Assistant  to  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  passed  away  after  a  glorious 
and  eventful  period  of  service.  We  all 
miss  him.  We  all  loved  him.  His 
contribution  was  monumental.  Now 
comes  the  filling  of  the  vacancy  and 
you  are  seeing  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  made  manifest. 

The  same  steps  are  followed  as  indi- 
cated above: 

1st:  The  death  of  Elder  Young  vacated 
a  position  which  needed  filling; 

2nd:  Through  a  process  followed  by 
the  President  of  the  Church,  whose  au- 
thority is  unquestioned,  Elder  Critchlow 
has  been  chosen  through  prophecy  and 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord; 

3rd:  The  prophet  has  officially  called 
this  good  man  to  service; 

4th:  You,  the  constituent  assembly  of 
the  Church,  with  full  authority  to  act 
for  the  Church,  have  approved  the 
choice,  and 

5th:  Soon  after  the  conference  Elder 
Critchlow  will  be  officially  set  apart  to 
his  new  responsibility  by  the  prophet 
himself,  or  under  his  direction. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  even  in 
olden  times  much  the  same  procedure 
was  followed.  Unfortunately,  all  the 
steps  are  not  always  recorded  but  there 
is  considerable  evidence  that  they  were 
taken.  The  "anointing"  of  ancient  days 
seems  to  have  been  much  the  same  and 
closely  associated  with  the  setting  apart 
of  today,  with  the  accompanying  bless- 
ing. 

The  first  apostles  were  called  by  the 
Lord:  "Come  follow  me,"  he  said,  "and 
I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men."  This 
was  more  than  a  casual  statement.  It 
was  a  definite  call. 


54 

Saturday,  October  II 

"And  they  straightway  left  their  nets, 
and  followed  him."  (See  Matt.  4:19-20.) 
"For  he  taught  them  as  one  having 
authority."  (Ibid.,  7:29.)  "And  when 
he  had  called  unto  him  his  twelve 
disciples,  he  gave  them  power.  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  10:1.)  This  included  their  com- 
mission to  preach  and  perform  ordi- 
nances. It  included  the  setting  apart, 
the  charge,  the  blessing.  The  promise 
given  these  leaders  was  most  spectacu- 
lar. Full  authority  was  given  them  as 
the  Redeemer  said:  "He  that  receiveth 
you  receiveth  me."  (Ibid.,  10:40.)  "All 
power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and 
in  earth:  Go  .  .  .  teach  all  nations  .  .  . 
to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have 
commanded  you."  (Ibid.,  28:18-20.) 

This  same  procedure  must  have  been 
followed  in  the  filling  of  the  vacancy 
made  by  Judas'  death.  The  need  for 
replacement  explained  by  Peter: 

"Beginning  from  the  baptism  of 
John,  unto  that  same  day  that  he  was 
taken  up  from  us,  must  one  be  ordained 
to  be  a  witness  with  us  of  his  resur- 
rection." (Acts  1:22.) 

Matthias  was  chosen  through  a  pro- 
cess of  elimination.  Our  record  is 
brief  but  it  seems  that  the  Apostles  had 
eliminated  all  other  brethren  of  the 
Church  down  to  the  two,  then  asked 
for  the  final  revelation  from  God: 

"And  they  appointed  two,  Joseph, 
called  Barsabas  .  .  .  and  Matthias. 

"And  they  prayed,  and  said,  Thou, 
Lord,  which  knowest  the  hearts  of  all 
men,  shew  whether  of  these  two  thou 
hast  chosen, 

".  .  .  and  the  lot  fell  upon  Matthias. 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  1:23-26.) 

".  .  .  and  he  was  numbered  with  the 
eleven  apostles."  (Idem,  26.) 

Next,  the  voice  of  the  people  was  un- 
doubtedly given  for  they  were  in  con- 
ference assembled. 

And  Matthias  was  associated  with  the 
apostles  and  went  forward  in  his  min- 
istry. 

The  Apostle  Paul  was  called  to  the 
apostleship.  The  original  revelation 
from  the  Lord  sent  him  to  a  high  Church 
leader  for  his  call  and  charge  and  au- 
thority. Ananias  feared  the  new  leader 
because  of  the  havoc  he  had  played 
among  the  Saints,  but  the  revelation 
was  specific: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

".  .  .  Go  thy  way:  for  he  is  a  chosen 
vessel  unto  me,  to  bear  my  name  before 
the  Gentiles,  and  kings,  and  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel:" 

And  that  authorized  leader  baptized 
Paul  and  laid  his  hands  on  his  head, 
through  which  came  the  Holy  Ghost, 
the  call  and  the  blessing.  His  setting 
apart  made  a  noticeable  change  in  him. 
As  he  preached  in  the  synagogues 
".  .  .  all  that  heard  him  were  amazed 
.  .  ."  ".  .  .  Saul  increased  the  more  in 
strength.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  9:15,  21,  22.) 

Every  Bible  reader  is  aware  of  the 
great  power  which  came  to  Paul  with 
his  call,  charge,  and  ordination  to  his 
apostolic  post. 

The  call  to  Barnabas  and  Saul  to  do 
specific  work  was  noteworthy.  The 
revelation  to  the  Church  leaders  came: 
"Separate  me  Barnabas  and  Saul  for 
the  work  whereunto  I  have  called 
them."  (Ibid.,  13:2.)  The  presiding 
authorities  now  fasted  and  prayed  in 
the  selection  and  having  made  the  call, 
they  laid  their  hands  on  the  two  breth- 
ren, setting  them  apart  to  go  to  Cyprus 
and  elsewhere. 

Even  among  the  kings  the  Lord  seems 
to  have  followed  the  pattern.  It  appears 
that  the  Old  Testament  Saul  became 
king  of  Israel  after  this  manner.  The 
people  came  to  Samuel  rejecting  the 
former  program  of  judges.  They  de- 
manded a  king  like  their  idolatrous 
neighbor  nations,  and  the  Lord  yielded 
to  their  persistence: 

"Hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  peo- 
ple in  all  that  they  say  unto  thee:  for 
they  have  not  rejected  thee,  but  they 
have  rejected  me.  .  .  ."  (I  Sam  8:7.) 

"Now  the  Lord  had  told  Samuel  in 
his  ear  a  day  before  Saul  came,  saying, 

"To  morrow  ...  I  will  send  thee  a 
man  out  of  the  land  of  Benjamin,  and 
thou  shalt  anoint  him.  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
9:15-16.) 

Next,  the  person  was  specified  by 
revelation: 

"And  when  Samuel  saw  Saul,  the 
Lord  said  unto  him,  Behold  the  man 
whom  I  spake  to  thee  ofl  .  .  ."  (Idem, 
17.) 

Then  came  the  official  call  from  the 
prophet: 

"And  on  whom  is  the  desire  of  Israel? 
Is  it  not  on  thee?  .  .  ."  (Idem,  20.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


55 


".  .  .  Samuel  communed  with  Saul 
upon  the  top  of  the  house."  (Idem,  25.) 

"Samuel  also  said  unto  Saul,  The 
Lord  sent  me  to  anoint  thee  to  be 
king  over  Israel:"  (Ibid.,  15:1.) 

He  set  Saul  at  the  head  of  the  group 
in  the  parlor  in  the  chiefest  place  and 
gave  him  the  special  meat  saved  for 
him.  As  they  went  on  their  way  Sam- 
uel said: 

".  .  .  stand  thou  still  a  while,  that  I 
may  shew  thee  the  word  of  God." 
(Ibid.,  9:27.) 

Saul  was  most  humble  in  accepting 
and  said: 

".  .  .  Am  not  I  a  Benjamite,  of  the 
smallest  of  the  tribes  of  Israel?  and  my 
family  the  least  of  all  the  families  of 
the  tribe  of  Benjamin?  wherefore  then 
speakest  thou  so  to  me?"  (Idem,  9:21.) 

Years  later  when  Saul  had  turned 
arrogant  through  years  of  power  and 
might,  Samuel  denounced  him: 

"When  thou  wast  little  in  thine  own 
sight,  wast  thou  not  made  the  head  of 
the  tribes  of  Israel,  and  the  Lord 
anointed  thee  king  over  Israel?"  (Ibid., 
15:17.) 

Now  came  the  setting  apart  and 
blessing: 

"Then  Samuel  took  a  vial  of  oil,  and 
poured  it  upon  his  [Saul's]  head,  and 
kissed  him,  and  said,  Is  it  not  because 
the  Lord  hath  anointed  thee  to  be  cap- 
tain over  his  inheritance?"  (Ibid.,  10:1.) 

With  this  came  a  great  blessing  which, 
like  all  blessings,  are  conditional  upon 
worthiness,  a  blessing  which  remained 
with  Saul  only  so  long  as  he  remained 
righteous. 

The  blessing  continued: 

"And  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  come 
upon  thee,  and  thou  shalt  prophesy  with 
them,  and  shall  be  turned  into  another 
man. 

"And  let  it  be  .  .  .  that  thou  do  as 
occasion  serve  thee;  for  God  is  with 
thee."  (Idem  6-7;  italics  author's.) 

"And  it  was  so,  that  when  he  had 
turned  his  back  to  go  from  Samuel, 
God  gave  him  another  heart:  and  all 
those  signs  came  to  pass  that  day. 

"And  when  they  came  thither  to  the 
hill,  behold,  a  company  of  prophets 
met  him;  and  the  spirit  of  God  came 
upon  him  and  he  prophesied  among 
them."  (Idem  9-11;  italics  author's.) 

A  positive  change  came  over  Saul. 


The  setting  apart  turned  him  into  an- 
other man  and  gave  him  another  heart. 
New  powers  came  to  him  at  once.  Those 
who  knew  him  were  astounded  at  his 
increased  spirituality,  his  newly  acquired 
wisdom  and  judgment  and  his  newly 
attained  maturity  and  powers,  and  ex- 
claimed in  amazement: 

What  has  happened  to  Saul?  He  is 
not  the  same!  "What  is  this  that  has 
come  unto  the  son  of  Kish.  Is  Saul 
also  among  the  prophets?"  (Idem  11.) 

Who  has  not  watched  the  transforma- 
tion of  a  newly  set  apart  person  to  high 
responsibility?  Who  has  not  seen  men 
already  great  rise  to  new  plateaus  of 
superior  attainment  braced  with  the  au- 
thority, the  keys,  the  mantle?  And 
conversely,  who  has  not  seen  the  loss  in 
stature,  influence  and  power  after  a 
great  leader  has  relinquished  the  reigns 
of  direction,  and  the  mantle  of  authority 
diverted  to  other  shoulders?  It  is  not 
imaginary  but  very  real. 

Now  the  people  were  given  oppor- 
tunity to  sustain  their  king: 

"And  Samuel  called  the  people  to- 
gether .  .  .  and  said  ...  See  ye  him 
whom  the  Lord  hath  chosen,  that  there 
is  none  like  him  among  all  the  people? 
And  all  the  people  shouted,  and  said, 
God  save  the  king."  (Idem  17-24.) 

This  presentation  to  the  people  was 
an  important  element  and  like  that 
specified  in  modern  revelation: 

"The  elders  are  to  receive  their  li- 
censes from  other  elders,  by  vote  of  the 
church  to  which  they  belong,  or  from 
the  conferences. 

"No  person  is  to  be  ordained  to  any 
office  in  this  church,  where  there  is  a 
regularly  organized  branch  of  the  same, 
without  the  vote  of  that  church."  (D 
&  C  20:63,  65.) 

Apparently  Saul  chose  other  strong 
men  for  his  court  who  likely  were  set 
apart  as  well,  for  the  record  states: 

"And  Saul  also  went  home  to  Gibeah; 
and  there  went  with  him  a  band  of  men, 
whose  hearts  God  had  touched."  (  I  Sam. 
10:26;  italics  author's.) 

Now  that  the  new  leader  was  chosen, 
called,  set  apart,  and  sustained  by  his 
people  with  their  votes  expressed  in 
their  cry:  "God  save  the  king,"  the 
superior  young  man  was  ready  to  serve, 
and  was  promised  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  so  long  as  he  was  worthy;  but  not 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


56 

Saturday,  October  11 

too  many  years  had  elapsed  until, 
through  unrighteousness,  he  had  for- 
feited his  blessings  and  kingdom.  The 
same  prophet  now  chastized  him: 

".  .  .  Thou  hast  done  foolishly:  thou 
hast  not  kept  the  commandment  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  "  {Ibid.,  13:13.) 

When  Saul  had  disobeyed  again  and 
again,  the  prophet  said: 

"...  I  will  not  return  with  thee:  for 
thou  hast  rejected  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  Lord  hath  rejected  thee.  .  .  ." 

". .  .  The  Lord  hath  rent  the  kingdom 
of  Israel  from  thee  this  day,  and  hath 
given  it  to  a  neighbour  of  thine,  that 
is  better  than  thou." 

".  .  .  Samuel  mourned  for  Saul:  and 
the  Lord  repented  that  he  had  made 
Saul  king  over  Israel."  (Ibid.,  15:26, 
28,  35.) 

Similarly  came  the  call  to  David. 
The  Lord  revealed  to  Samuel: 

"And  call  Jesse  to  the  sacrifice,  and  I 
will  shew  thee  what  thou  shalt  do: 
and  thou  shalt  anoint  unto  me,  him 
whom  I  name  unto  thee."  (Ibid.,  16:3.) 

Jesse  and  his  sons  came  to  Bethlehem. 
Each  stalwart  stood  before  him  in  turn 
and  Samuel's  heart  was  stirred,  "Surely 
the  Lord's  anointed  is  before  me." 
(Idem)  But  the  revelation  of  the  Lord 
manifested  otherwise. 

".  .  .  Look  not  on  his  countenance, 
or  on  the  height  of  his  stature;  because 
I  have  refused  him:  for  the  Lord  seeth 
not  as  man  seeth;  for  man  looketh  on 
the  outward  appearance,  but  the  Lord 
looketh  on  the  heart."  (Idem  7.) 

And  as  each  came  before  him  the 
spirit  whispered,  "Neither  hath  the 
Lord  chosen  this."  (Idem  8.) 

"Send  and  fetch  him  [David],"  said 
the  prophet,  "for  we  will  not  sit  down 
till  he  come  hither."  (Ibid.,  16:11.) 
And  through  the  process  of  elimination 
David  was  chosen  through  revelation: 

".  .  .  Now  he  was  ruddy,  and  withal 
of  a  beautiful  countenance,  and  goodly 
to  look  to.  And  the  Lord  said,  Arise, 
anoint  him:  for  this  is  he."  (Idem  12.) 

Now  the  setting  apart: 

"Then  Samuel  took  the  horn  of  oil, 
and  anointed  him  in  the  midst  of  his 
brethren:  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came 
upon  David  from  that  day  forward. . . ." 
(Idem  13.) 

It  was  some  time  before  the  people 


Second  Day 

could  sustain  him  since  vicious  Saul 
still  reigned. 

"[But]  Saul  eyed  David  from  that 
day  and  forward."  (Ibid.,  18:9.) 

"And  Saul  saw  and  knew  that  the 
Lord  was  with  David."  (See  Idem  12.) 

"David  behaved  himself  more  wisely 
than  all  the  servants  of  Saul,  so  that  his 
name  was  much  set  by."  (See  Idem  14.) 

And  eventually  when  Saul  was  dead: 

".  .  .  the  men  of  Judah  came  and 
there  they  anointed  David  king  over  the 
house  of  Judah."  (II  Sam.  2:4.) 

And  later: 

".  .  .  all  the  elders  of  Israel  came  to 
the  king  to  Hebron;  .  .  .  and  they 
anointed  David  king  over  Israel."  (Ibid., 
5:3.) 

"And  David  went  on,  and  grew  great, 
and  the  Lord  God  of  hosts  was  with 
him."  (Idem  10.) 

And  again  in  the  case  of  Solomon,  the 
anointing  was  emphasized: 

"And  Zadok  the  priest,  took  an  horn 
of  oil  out  of  the  tabernacle,  and  anointed 
Solomon.  And  they  blew  the  trumpet; 
and  all  the  people  said,  God  save  king 
Solomon."  (I  Kings  1:39.) 

And  Solomon  loved  the  Lord,  walking 
in  the  statutes  of  David  his  father,  and 
received  this  blessing  with  his  setting 
apart: 

"And  God  gave  Solomon  wisdom  and 
understanding  exceeding  much,  and 
largeness  of  heart.  .  .  . 

"And  Solomon's  wisdom  excelled  the 
wisdom  of  all.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  4:29,  30.) 

Again  in  the  call  to  Joshua,  these 
steps  were  stressed:  The  need,  the  call, 
the  laying  on  of  hands  with  the  blessing. 
There  was  the  revelation  as  to  the  need 
since  Moses  could  not  go  over  Jordan 
and  realizing  it,  pleaded  that  a  shep- 
herd be  given  Israel.  The  specific  man 
was  named: 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Moses,  Take 
thee  Joshua  the  son  of  Nun,  a  man  in 
whom  is  the  spirit,  and  lay  thine  hand 
upon  him; 

"And  set  him  .  .  .  before  all  the  con- 
gregation and  give  him  a  charge  in  their 
sight. 

"And  thou  shalt  put  some  of  thine 

honour  upon  him  "  (Num.  27:18-20; 

italics  author's.) 

"But  charge  Joshua,  and  encourage 
him,  and  strengthen  him:  for  he  shall 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


57 


go  over  before  this  people,  and  he  shall 
cause  them  to  inherit  the  land  which 
thou  shalt  see."  (Deut.  3:28.) 

"And  he  laid  his  hands  upon  him 
[Joshua]  and  gave  him  a  charge.  .  .  ." 
(Num.  27:23.) 

And  the  blessing  gave  him  power  and 
authority. 

"And  Joshua  the  son  of  Nun  was  full 
of  the  spirit  of  wisdom;  for  Moses  had 
laid  his  hands  upon  him.  .  .  ."  (Deut. 
34:9.) 

The  setting  apart  is  an  established 
practice  in  the  Church  and  men  and 
women  are  "set  apart"  to  special  re- 
sponsibility, in  ecclesiastical,  quorum, 
and  auxiliary  positions.  All  missionaries 
are  set  apart  and  it  is  remarkable  how 
many  of  them  speak  often  of  the  au- 
thority who  officiate  and  of  the  blessings 
promised  and  their  fulfilment. 

To  some  folk  the  setting  apart  seems 
a  perfunctory  act  while  others  anticipate 
it  eagerly,  absorb  every  word  of  it,  and 
let  their  lives  be  lifted  thereby. 

The  setting  apart  may  be  taken  literal- 
ly; it  is  a  setting  apart  from  sin,  apart 
from  the  carnal;  apart  from  everything 
which  is  crude,  low,  vicious,  cheap,  or 
vulgar;  set  apart  from  the  world  to  a 
higher  plane  of  thought  and  activity. 
The  blessing  is  conditional  upon  faith- 
ful performance. 

In  a  hotel  in  the  Pocono  mountains  of 
Pennsylvania  long  years  ago,  I  learned 
an  important  lesson  when  the  president 
of  the  Rotary  International  said  to  the 
district  governors  in  the  assembly: 

"Gentlemen:  This  has  been  a  great 
year  for  you.  The  people  have  hon- 
ored you,  praised  you,  banqueted  you, 
applauded  you,  and  given  you  lavish 
gifts.  If  you  ever  get  the  mistaken 
idea  that  they  were  doing  this  for  you 
personally,  just  try  going  back  to  the 
clubs  next  year  when  the  mantle  is  on 
other  shoulders." 

This  has  kept  me  on  my  knees  in  my 
holy  calling.  Whenever  I  have  been 
inclined  to  think  the  honors  were  com- 
ing to  me  as  I  go  about  the  Church, 
then  I  remember  that  it  is  not  to  me, 
but  to  the  position  I  hold  that  honors 
come.    I  am  but  a  symbol. 

Someone  has  given  us  this: 

"There  is  a  spirit  which,  if  it  can  get 
into  men,  will  make  them  tall  of  soul, 


gentle  of  spirit,  courageous  of  heart, 
just  and  honest  toward  their  fellow  men, 
faithful  in  life,  and  fearless  in  death." 

This  is  the  spirit  of  the  "setting  apart" 
when  the  recipient  magnifies  the  call- 
ing. 

This  special  endowment  can  make  of 
one  a  "new  creature,"  "an  understand- 
ing judge,"  "a  wise  and  behaving 
servant,"  "a  discerning  leader." 

It  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  the 
leaders  in  this  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
are  divinely  called  and  set  apart  to 
lead  through  the  spirit  of  prophecy  as 
in  other  dispensations. 

In  my  experience  there  have  been 
numerous  people  who  like  Saul  and 
David  and  Matthias,  like  Paul  and 
Peter  and  Joshua  have,  through  the 
setting  apart,  received  "largeness  of 
heart,"  extended  influence,  increased 
wisdom,  enlarged  vision,  and  new 
powers.  I  have  seen  many  who  have 
been  given  "a  new  heart"  and  who  have 
been  turned  "into  another  man"  and 
made  into  a  "new  creature." 

I  bear  witness,  too,  that  revelation  is 
with  the  Church  constantly  and  in 
marked  degree,  not  only  in  the  call  of 
leaders,  but  in  the  interpretation  of  the 
gospel  truths  and  in  the  practices  of 
the  Church.    This  I  know. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  The  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  For  God." 
The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Samuel  A.  Hendricks,  formerly 
president  of  the  West  Central  States 
Mission,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang,  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  For 
God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
the  music  to  the  anthem  to  which  you 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  11 

have  just  listened  was  written  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  who  led  the 
Chorus. 

Brother  Samuel  A.  Hendricks  will 
now  offer  the  benediction. 


Second  Day 

Elder  Samuel  A.  Hendricks,  formerly 
president  of  the  West  Central  States 
Mission,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Saturday, 
October  11,  1958.  President  David  O. 
McKay  presided  and  conducted  the  pro- 
ceedings. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  three  Southern  California  re- 
gions furnished  the  choral  music  for 
this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  those  who  are  unable  to  gain  ad- 
mittance to  the  Tabernacle,  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  over-flow 
meetings  are  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  the  Barratt  Hall  where  these 
services  are  being  broadcast  by  television. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the  three 
Southern  California  regions,  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen, 
with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 
We  shall  begin  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  rendering,  "Come,  O 
Thou  King  of  Kings." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Herold  L.  Gregory,  formerly  pres- 


ident of  the  East  German  Mission,  now 
called  North  German  Mission. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings." 

Elder  Herold  L.  Gregory,  formerly 
president  of  the  East  German  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Herold  L.  Gregory  has  just 
offered  the  invocation.  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "God  Shall  Wipe  Away  All 
Tears."  After  the  singing,  Elder  Richard 
L.  Evans  will  speak  to  us. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "God  Shall 
Wipe  Away  All  Tears." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
that  spirit  of  prayer  of  which  President 
Clark  spoke  so  beautifully  this  morning, 
I  pray  that  I  may  be  given  utterance  to 
say  that  which  would  best  be  said  in 
this  place  and  at  this  time. 

I  think  to  those  of  you  who  have 
heard  what  has  preceded  at  this  con- 
ference, it  must  be  somewhat  apparent 
that  there  has  been  a  considerable  and, 
I  think,  significant  emphasis  and  re- 
affirmation of  the  principle  of  revelation, 


of  continuous  revelation — or  at  least  it 
has  seemed  so  to  me,  as  I  have  sat  and 
listened  with  you. 

There  were  some  events  associated 
with  the  dedication  of  the  London  Tem- 
ple which  I  should  like  to  relate,  also. 
Our  President  went  there,  and  we  had 
arranged  a  press  conference  for  him  on 
the  late  afternoon  following  what  was  to 
have  been  the  morning  of  his  arrival, 
thinking  that  he  would  have  time  for  rest 
and  still  time  to  face  that  arduous  task. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


59 


But  his  plane  was  three  hours  late,  or 
more.  He  had  been  up  all  the  night  be- 
fore with  those  who  accompanied  him, 
President  and  Sister  Smith  and  Brother 
Reiser,  and  there  was  no  time  for  rest; 
and  he  faced  that  battery  of  some  thirty 
or  forty  newsmen  representing  the  great 
London  dailies  and  others  of  the  British 
Empire  and  the  wire  services,  and  the 
BBC  television  camera. 

They  pressed  many  questions,  difficult 
and  sometimes  tenacious  and  penetrat- 
ing questions,  as  is  the  function  of  alert 
and  seasoned  newsmen.  He  met  them 
forthrightly,  with  some  declarations  of 
affirmation  as  to  things  we  would  know 
and  how  we  could  be  assured  of  know- 
ing them.  They  were  respectful,  but  one 
always  wonders  what  will  happen  the 
morning  after  when  what  was  said  ap- 
pears in  print,  with  the  reporter's 
personal  color  or  understanding  or  mis- 
understanding on  it.  Some  of  us  wor- 
ried about  it  considerably.  I  saw  the 
President  in  the  lobby  of  the  hotel  that 
evening  and  expressed  some  of  my  con- 
cern, and  he  made  a  very  significant 
statement.  I  do  not  know  whether  he 
remembers  it  or  not,  but  I  think  I  shall 
not  forget  it.  He  said,  "When  I  have 
said  what  I  know  to  be  true,  I  do  not 
worry  about  the  consequences." 

This  put  me  in  mind  of  that  great 
statement  of  the  Prophet  Micaiah  as  he 
declared  to  Ahab,  the  king,  those  things 
which  the  Lord  God  had  given  him  to 
speak.  The  king  had  previously  said 
that  he  hated  the  prophet  because  he 
never  prophesied  him  good,  and  the 
prophet  replied:  "As  the  Lord  liveth, 
what  the  Lord  saith  unto  me,  that  will 
I  speak."  (I  Kings  22:14.) 

It  is  the  burden  of  the  prophets  al- 
ways to  speak  what  the  Lord  God  saith, 
no  matter  who  likes  it  or  who  does  not, 
or  what  one  would  wish  to  be  the 
truth.  It  takes  a  kind  of  courage  beyond 
what  most  men  have  reason  to  reach 
down  for. 

We  might  just  as  well  have  slept, 
those  of  us  who  didn't  sleep  so  well  that 
night,  because  the  newspapers  the  next 
morning  were  factual  and  respectful,  and 
none  of  them  that  I  knew  of  had 
reached  for  the  sensational,  or  the  old 
false  representations,  that  some  of  us 
had  been  accustomed  to  in  times  gone  by. 


President  McKay's  calm  and  assur- 
ance, which  is  so  characteristic  of  him, 
was  in  evidence  again  (with  which  calm 
assurance  some  of  us  may  have  felt  he 
has  sent  us  at  times  into  the  fiery 
furnace,  but  we  have  never  found  our- 
selves scorched,  and  he  has  never  sent 
us  where  he  was  not  willing  to  walk 
with  us). 

To  hear  him  six  times  deliver  signifi- 
cant addresses  at  six  of  the  dedicatory 
sessions,  to  hear  the  repeated  notable 
dedicatory  prayer,  a  meaningful  docu- 
ment, inviting  attention  to  the  fact 
that  the  Magna  Charta,  1215  A.D.,  had 
been  signed  in  that  same  County  of 
Surrey  where  the  temple  was  now  being 
dedicated,  was  a  great  privilege  and  a 
moving  experience.  And  to  celebrate 
with  him  his  eighty-fifth  birthday  in 
that  far  land  was  a  sweet  occasion  that 
some  of  us  will  never  forget.  And  long 
before  he  arrived,  he  was  with  us,  many 
times  a  day,  because  we  had  made  a 
motion  picture  explaining  the  purpose 
of  temples,  with  President  McKay's 
voice  and  picture  in  colored  film,  and 
as  those  76,000  and  more  visitors  came 
and  went  into  tents  where  this  film  was 
being  shown,  we  heard  his  voice  from 
fifty  to  one  hundred  times  a  day  as  the 
tents  filled  and  emptied  about  as  fast 
as  the  film  could  be  shown.  It  was  a 
choice  and  glorious  occasion. 

Now,  one  thing  these  newsmen 
wanted  to  know,  some  of  them,  is,  "How 
do  you  know?  How  can  you  know 
some  of  these  things?" 

Does  it  seem  a  thing  strange  that  the 
Lord  who  admittedly  had  prophets  in 
former  days  should  have  them  in  this 
day?  Does  it  seem  a  thing  strange  that 
there  should  be  living  prophets  as  well 
as  dead  ones?  Does  it  seem  that  this 
people  in  this  time  should  need  less, 
for  these  changing  times  and  changing 
conditions,  the  interpretation  of  the 
everlasting  principles  and  standards, 
and  less  need  a  living  voice  to  help 
to  find  the  way?  Is  there  less  of  wilder- 
ness in  our  generation  and  in  our  world 
than  ever  there  was?  Or  less  need  for 
living  prophets?  Does  it  seem  that  the 
Lord  would  give  prophets  to  one  small 
people  in  one  small  place  at  one  limited 
time,  and  leave  all  the  rest  of  his  chil- 
dren for  all  of  the  rest  of  time  without 
the  living  witness  of  his  words,  and  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  11 

interpretation  of  them  according  to  their 
own  time  and  day?  Just  consistency 
and  reason  would  seem  to  suggest  living 
prophets  and  continuous  revelation 
without  any  deep-seated  affirmation  of 
it  within  our  souls. 

As  to  answering  the  question  of  the 
newsmen,  "How  can  you  know?"  Of 
course,  you  can  go  back  and  read  the 
record.  We  invited  the  attention  of 
some  of  them  to  the  fact  that  a  prophet 
a  century  and  a  quarter  ago  had  said 
that  tobacco  was  not  good  for  man,  and 
that  medical  science  was  now  affirming 
it.  And  they  said,  "Then  in  this  respect 
your  prophet  was  a  century  or  so  ahead 
of  the  findings  of  medical  science." 
And  we  let  them  say  it.  We  did  not 
have  to  say  it  for  them. 

But  beyond  tangible  and  specific 
historical  evidences,  there  are  things  a 
man  can  know  inside  his  soul  that  are 
beyond  the  things  he  can  touch  and  see 
and  rest  his  feet  upon,  which  are  un- 
deniable. 

And  as  to  those  friends  to  whom 
President  Richards  spoke  so  earnestly 
yesterday  morning,  I  would  witness  to 
them,  also,  with  him,  that  this  in  which 
we  are  engaged  is  not  merely  a  vocation 
or  a  profession,  but  the  dedication  of  a 
life  to  a  conviction  that  cannot  be 
denied. 

And  as  to  how  one  can  know:  He 
who  does  not  know  cannot  know  that 
another  man  does  know,  and  some 
things  are  so  certain  within  the  souls 
of  men  that  they  cannot  be  denied. 

A  few  days  ago  President  Clark  spoke 
a  sentence  that  I  have  not  been  able 
to  forget.  He  said,  "We  are  no  better 
than  we  are."  It  is  profound  in  its 
simplicity  and  it  leads  into  many  appli- 
cations. Our  positions  do  not  make  us 
better,  or  do  not  assure  our  being  better 
than  we  are.  I  know  of  no  generaliza- 
tions that  would  save  the  souls  of  men. 
It  is  the  specific  performance  of  specific 
things  that  make  men  better — not 
theory,  not  merely  the  fact  that  there 
is  a  set  of  principles  or  that  there  are 
commandments,  or  that  there  is  coun- 
sel, but  the  living  of  it. 

I  am  thinking  of  the  Danish  sculptor 
of  great  fame,  Thorvaldsen,  who  chose 
to  be  buried  in  the  midst  of  his  works — 
not  in  a  cathedral  or  a  cemetery,  but 
in  a  museum  among  the  monuments  of 


Second  Day 

his  own  making — in  the  midst  of  his 
statuary;  and  there  what  he  made  and 
what  he  did  with  his  life  surrounds 
him.  He  did  not  theorize  upon  sculp- 
turing, only,  but  with  his  hands  and 
with  his  creative  gift  he  fashioned  those 
things  and  he  lies  there  in  the  midst 
of  his  works,  as  we  all  shall  do  some- 
day— and  it  will  not  be  the  theories  or 
the  discussions  or  the  speculations  or 
the  set  of  principles  or  the  set  of  com- 
mandments that  shall  save  us.  We  shall 
be  no  better  than  we  are.  We  are 
no  better  than  the  tithing  we  pay,  no 
better  than  the  teaching  we  do,  no  better 
than  the  service  we  give,  no  better  than 
the  commandments  we  keep,  no  better 
than  the  lives  we  live,  and  we  shall 
have  a  bright  remembrance  of  these 
things  and  we  shall,  in  a  sense,  lie 
down  in  the  midst  of  what  we  have 
done  when  that  time  comes,  and  never 
in  my  life  have  I  felt  more  fully  to  say 
with  all  the  earnestness  of  my  soul, 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 
to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  may 
we  take  counsel  with  each  other.  There 
is  safety  in  counsel:  counsel  with  our 
children,  with  the  family,  with  our 
friends,  with  our  Father  in  heaven,  and 
not  attempt  to  live  life  alone  and  to 
make  the  decisions  alone,  but  to 
strengthen  each  other,  and  encourage 
each  other,  and  go  forward  and  do 
what  there  is  to  be  done  and  follow  the 
living  leadership  as  the  prophet  inter- 
prets for  us  the  great  principles  and 
commandments  of  all  time. 

I  thank  God  for  a  prophet  this  day, 
for  an  assurance  that  I  am  not  alone 
in  life,  and  that  you  are  not,  that  we 
none  of  us  are,  nor  are  left  without  in- 
spired leadership.  Thank  God  for  it. 
And  I  leave  this  witness  with  you,  in 
the  name  of  him  in  whose  name  we  do 
all  things,  and  in  whose  name  we  are 
met,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown 
of  the  same  Council  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Levi 
Edgar  Young. 


61 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  we  grow  older  and  have  more  ex- 
perience in  the  ministry,  we  become 
increasingly  aware  of  our  utter  depend- 
ence upon  divine  guidance  and  inspira- 
tion, and  therefore  it  is  not  just  habit 
that  causes  us  so  frequently  to  ask  for 
that  guidance  and  to  solicit  your  help, 
sympathy,  and  prayers. 

Like  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  it  was 
my  pleasure  to  attend  the  dedication  of 
the  temple  in  London,  England,  and  I 
appreciated  the  privilege. 

Two  of  the  most  frequent  questions 
asked  of  us  as  we  travel  are,  "What  is 
your  creed?"  and  "What  distinguishes 
your  Church  from  others?" 

We  do  not  have  a  written  creed  in 
the  usual  sense  of  the  word.  However, 
we  do  have  a  concise  and  authoritative 
statement  of  the  beliefs  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church, 
known  as  the  Articles  of  Faith.  In  that 
statement  we  declare  our  faith  in  God 
the  Father,  in  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  and 
in  the  Holy  Ghost;  known  generally  as 
the  Holy  Trinity.  We  declare  our  con- 
viction that  men  will  be  held  account- 
able for  their  own  sins  and  will  not 
be  answerable  for  the  sins  of  others, 
that  there  are  certain  principles  and 
ordinances  that  must  be  believed  and 
observed  by  those  who  would  gain  salva- 
tion, and  that  those  principles  and 
ordinances  must  be  taught  and  admin- 
istered by  men  who  have  authority  in 
the  apostolic  Church  as  organized  in 
the  Meridian  of  Time,  of  which  Jesus 
Christ  was,  and  is,  the  chief  cornerstone. 

In  this  declaration  we  affirm  our  faith 
in  the  atonement  of  Christ  and  its  uni- 
versal applicability.  We  believe  that 
he  will  come  again,  that  there  will  be  a 
thousand  years  of  universal  peace.  We 
make  the  statement  that  we  believe  in 
sacred  scriptures,  ancient  and  modern; 
that  we  believe  that  men  are  entitled 
to  freedom  of  religious  belief.  We  honor 
and  sustain  the  laws  of  the  land.  We 
commit  ourselves  to  Christ's  standard 
of  moral  conduct,  and  service  based  on 
love  of  God  and  of  fellow  men. 

As  many  sermons  have  been  preached 
and  much  has  been  written  on  each 


of  these  articles,  I  shall  not  elucidate, 
but  I  should  like  to  refer  for  a  moment 
to  the  ninth  Article  of  Faith. 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we 
believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

This  simple  and  forthright  statement 
of  faith  in  revelation  has  elicited  the 
criticism  of  some  of  our  friends,  because 
it  includes  past,  current,  and  future 
revelation.  Many  other  churches  pro- 
fess belief  in  the  revelations  recorded 
in  the  Bible,  but  they  do  not  believe 
that  God  still  reveals  his  will  through 
chosen  prophets  on  the  earth. 

We  declare  that  the  line  of  com- 
munication between  heaven  and  earth 
is  open,  and  operating,  as  anciently.  We 
believe  that  revelation  is  continuous 
and  expedient,  and  is  suited  to  the  times 
in  which  it  is  given.  When  we  make 
that  statement,  it  follows  that  we  be- 
lieve in  scriptures  other  than  the  Holy 
Bible,  because  divine  revelation  is  the 
word  of  God,  and  his  word  is  scripture. 
We  unequivocally  declare  our  faith 
in  the  Bible  as  the  word  of  God,  and 
we  specify  the  King  James  version 
thereof. 

Our  acceptance  of  other  revelation 
does  not  diminish  our  faith  in  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments.  On  the  con- 
trary, our  belief  in  the  Bible  is 
strengthened  and  our  understanding  of 
it  clarified  by  these  new  corroborative 
revelations. 

Among  the  volumes  of  scripture  in 
which  we  believe,  the  one  most  fre- 
quently referred  to  by  friends  and 
critics  is  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  has  had 
the  largest  circulation  and  has  elicited 
more  comment  during  the  past  century, 
favorable  and  otherwise,  than  any  other 
modem  book. 

This  book  is  an  inspired  text,  having 
been  written  by  various  prophets  who 
lived  in  America  at  the  times  of  which 
they  write.  It  is  a  sacred  record  of  the 
ancient  inhabitants  of  America,  cover- 
ing in  the  main  that  portion  of  their 
history  from  about  600  B.C.  to  400  AD. 

Its  message  was  inscribed  on  metallic 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  11 

plates  by  various  authors.  These  writ- 
ings were  abridged  by  the  Prophet 
Mormon,  one  of  the  last  survivors  of  a 
dwindling  race.  It  is  therefore  known 
as  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  entrusted 
the  plates  to  his  son,  Moroni,  who  was 
the  last  of  the  Nephite  historians. 
Moroni  deposited  the  plates  in  a  stone 
box  on  a  hillside  and  some  fourteen 
hundred  years  later  he,  at  that  time  a 
resurrected  being,  revealed  their  hiding 
place  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  who 
translated  what  is  said  to  be  reformed 
Egyptian  characters  into  English  by  the 
gift  and  power  of  God. 

It  is  doubtless  this  element  of  the 
miraculous  which  disturbs  many  who 
hear  of  this  record  and  causes  some  to 
shrug  it  off  without  further  interest. 
It  seems  strange  to  us  that  believers 
in  the  Judeo-Christian  Bible  should  be 
skeptical  of  the  miraculous. 

Miracles  form  an  important  part  of 
the  Old  and  the  New  Testaments.  The 
story  of  the  earth  life  of  Jesus  of  Naza- 
reth continues  to  grip  the  hearts  and 
intrigue  the  minds  of  men,  largely  be- 
cause of  the  miracle  of  his  birth,  the 
almost  daily  miracles  he  performed  dur- 
ing his  ministry,  and  the  transcendent 
miracle  of  his  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion. Moreover,  he  left  his  apostles  and 
disciples  with  a  promise  of  a  miraculous 
reappearance  in  the  last  days.  Para- 
phrasing the  Apostle  Paul  we  ask,  "Why 
should  it  be  thought  a  thing  incredible 
that  God  should  reveal  his  will  to  his 
servants,  the  prophets,  as  he  promised 
to  do." 

One  remarkable  fact  about  this  book 
is  its  continued  popularity  and  appeal. 
One  hundred  thirty  years  after  the  first 
edition  was  published,  it  is  still  a  best 
seller,  over  thirty-five  thousand  copies 
being  printed  in  English  each  year,  and 
other  thousands  distributed  in  the 
twenty-seven  different  languages  into 
which  it  has  been  translated.  Nearly 
three  million  copies  of  this  book  have 
been  distributed  in  almost  all  countries 
of  the  world  in  the  last  century. 

Yes,  we  do  believe  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon to  be  the  word  of  God,  and  we 
believe  in  the  miraculous  that  was  in- 
volved in  its  preservation  and  produc- 
tion. There  have  been  many  who  have 
sought  to  discredit  it,  many  things  have 
been  written  against  it,  but  in  more 


Second  Day 

recent  times  some  of  our  friends  who 
have  made  a  careful  study  of  the  book 
have  made  statements  which  are  signifi- 
cant. I  shall  refer  to  one  or  two  taken 
from  a  little  book  called,  The  Book  of 
Mormon  Message  and  Evidences  by  Dr. 
Franklin  S.  Harris,  Jr.  Charles  H.  Hull, 
professor  of  American  history  in  Cornell 
University  wrote: 

"I  am  perfectly  willing  to  say  to  any- 
one that  I  suppose  the  Book  of  Mormon 
to  be  one  of  the  most  famous  and  widely 
discussed  books  ever  published  in 
America." 

Says  a  Rochester  newspaper,  "The 
book  itself  remains  on  which  was 
founded  the  greatest  religion  of  the 
continent  and  the  century.  It  was  not 
the  book  itself,  but  the  wonderful  influ- 
ence it  had  on  America  that  counted." 

And  a  former  Secretary  of  Agriculture, 
who  had  read  the  book  carefully  said, 
"Of  all  the  American  books  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  it  seems  probable 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  the  most 
powerful.  It  reached  perhaps  only  one 
percent  of  the  United  States,  but  it  af- 
fected this  one  percent  so  powerfully 
and  lastingly  that  all  the  people  of  the 
United  States  have  been  affected,  espe- 
cially by  its  contribution  in  opening 
one  of  our  great  frontiers." 

Now,  our  declaration  regarding  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  a  solemn  one.  If 
it  is  false,  it  is  almost  blasphemous.  If 
it  is  true,  then  all  who  believe  it  are 
under  a  solemn  obligation  to  its  author 
to  proclaim  its  truth. 

One  of  the  prophets  of  that  book 
emphasized  this  fact  in  the  following 
words,  and  I  read  from  Second  Nephi: 

"Wherefore,  how  great  the  impor- 
tance to  make  these  things  known  unto 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  that  they 
may  know  that  there  is  no  flesh  that 
can  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God,  save 
it  be  through  the  merits,  and  mercy, 
and  grace  of  the  Holy  Messiah,  who 
layeth  down  his  life  according  to  the 
flesh,  and  taketh  it  again  by  the  power 
of  the  Spirit,  that  he  may  bring  to  pass 
the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  being  the 
first  that  should  rise."  (2  Nephi  2:8.) 

And  further  in  his  same  book,  after 
reciting  the  miraculous  events  in  the 
history  of  the  Israelites,  he  said, 

"...  I  say  unto  you,  that  as  these 
things  are  true,  and  as  the  Lord  God 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


63 


liveth,  there  is  none  other  name  given 
under  heaven  save  it  be  this  Jesus  Christ, 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  whereby  man 
can  be  saved."  (Ibid.,  25:20.) 

It  is  the  message  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon that  has  caused  people  from  almost 
all  nations  of  the  earth  to  accept  it  as 
the  word  of  God.  Its  inspiring  theme 
and  divine  message,  from  the  title  page 
to  the  last  chapter,  constitutes  the  testi- 
mony or  witness  of  a  whole  nation  of 
people  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Creator  of  the  world,  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  It  bears  witness 
to  the  efficacy  of  the  atonement,  of  its 
universal  application  and  its  value  to 
all  individuals  who  will  accept  his  word 
and  keep  his  commandments. 

We  urge  our  friends  to  examine  the 
book  itself,  to  check  its  claims,  listen 
to  its  message  and  to  feel  of  its  spirit. 
Yes,  we  believe  in  continued  revelation, 
ancient,  continuous,  current,  and  future. 

And  personally,  I  wish  to  bear  my 
testimony  with  those  that  have  already 


been  borne  that  the  Church  today,  the 
kingdom  of  God,  is  being  led  by  revela- 
tion. God  is  not  the  author  of  con- 
fusion. He  does  not  work  in  dark  places. 
He  makes  it  known  to  the  world  when 
he  appoints  a  prophet,  and  I  testify  that 
I  know  as  I  know  I  live,  that  this  Church 
today  is  guided  by  prophecy  and  by 
revelation,  and  that  these  men  whom 
we  honor  are  prophets  of  God. 

I  pray  that  he  may  help  us  to  live 
as  though  we  believed  it,  to  be  true  to 
ourselves,  to  them  and  to  God,  by  carry- 
ing out  the  instructions  they  give,  and 
living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we 
read  these  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  "Seek  ye  knowledge  out  of  the 
best  books,  words  of  wisdom."  (See 
D  &  C  88:118.)  Today  I  should  like 
to  read  to  you  some  of  the  words  of 
wisdom  which  I  have  found  in  good 
books.  Some  of  these  words  are  from 
the  Bible,  some  are  from  the  writings 
of  Abbott  Lawrence  Lowell,  late  presi- 
dent of  Harvard  University,  and  from 
other  sources.  All  these  sources  and 
many  more  good  books  are  easily  avail- 
able to  all  of  us.  I  am  very  much  in- 
terested in  them  and  wish  to  pay 
attention  to  the  Prophet's  words. 

Our  pioneer  fathers  read  the  best 
books.  Sometime  I  shall  tell  you  what 
books  they  brought  to  this  valley  with 
them.  The  founding  fathers  read  most 
of  the  best  books  of  their  time  and  in 
many  languages.  They  were  educated 
and  wise  men. 

What  is  "wisdom"?  President  Lowell 
says,  "We  think  of  wisdom  as  a  part 
of  religion.  In  its  highest  strains  it 
involves  wisdom  as  an  attribute  and 
emanation  of  God,  such  that,  if  a  man 


take  her  as  a  companion  and  guide,  he 
shall  find  righteousness  and  happiness. 
Such  wisdom  demands  serenity  of 
temper,  a  judicial  attitude  of  mind,  a 
habit  of  seeking  what  good  reasons  and 
motives,  rather  than  what  bad  ones, 
others  may  have  for  differing  from  us. 
It  demands  not  only  a  negative,  but 
a  positive  intellectual  integrity,  a  de- 
sire to  understand  that  which  contra- 
dicts, as  well  as  that  which  supports, 
one's  own  views  of  what  is  just  and 
wise.  This  means  an  open,  earnest 
mind,  a  mind  based  upon  wide  and 
deep  insight  into  ultimate  realities." 

Men  are  not  born  with  wisdom,  they 
acquire  it  by  habitual  self-control,  by 
looking  not  at  the  popular  impulse  of 
the  day,  not  by  conforming,  not  by  mass 
participation,  but  at  those  principles 
that  endure  and  are  eternal. 

The  following  words,  which  I  now 
quote,  will  be  particularly  helpful  to 
our  missionaries:  "There  are  thousands 
of  men  in  the  world  who  live  on  a  high 
moral  plane  and  are  not  thought  self- 
righteous.  If  we  have  any  insight  into 
the  deeper  springs  of  human  nature,  we 


64 

Saturday,  October  11 

will  meet  them  constantly  in  the  jour- 
ney of  life.  If  we  have  not  the  insight, 
we  will  not  see  them,  for  they  do  not 
make  a  show  of  virtue.  But  they  have 
upheld  it  in  others  by  their  example, 
and  make  the  world  better  by  their 
presence." 

What  does  Paul  mean  when  he  says 
(Corinthians),  ".  .  .  they  measuring 
themselves  by  themselves,  and  compar- 
ing themselves  among  themselves,  are 
not  wise."  (II  Cor.  10:12.)  He  further 
says,  "For  other  foundation  can  no  man 
lay  than  that  is  laid,  which  is  Jesus 
Christ."  (I  Cor.  3:11.)  Let  us  integrate 
this  wisdom  into  our  lives. 

Let  us  be  wise  in  training  our  chil- 
dren, and  remind  ourselves  often  that 
all  young  people  need  heroes  to  emu- 
late. There  is  no  life  of  the  mind  or 
aspiration  of  the  spirit  without  emula- 
tion of  great  heroes.  Let  us  remind 
them  too,  that  opportunity  is  often 
made  or  seized  upon  by  men,  rather 
than  thrust  upon  them.  The  lives  of 
two  of  the  most  eminent  American  his- 
torians— Prescott  and  Parkman  beauti- 
fully teach  this  great  lesson.  Our 
children  must  feel  at  times  that  they 
are  in  the  company  of  a  great  human 
spirit. 

May  I  pause  here  to  say  some 
words  on  juvenile  delinquency.  Wil- 
liam Ellery  Channing,  the  great  histo- 
rian, writer,  and  teacher  said,  "No  state 
of  mind,  not  even  positive  suffering,  is 
more  painful  than  the  want  of  inter- 
esting objects."  In  other  words, 
boredom  causes  crime.  If  we  had  wis- 
dom enough  in  the  community  one 
cannot  doubt  that  crimes,  which  all 
good  men  reprobate,  would  be  less 
prominent  ...  we  should  be  so  wise 
as  to  discover  the  causes  and  remove 
them. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

To  leaders  and  workers  I  say — ponder 
on  these  words  in  Genesis,  "And  Jacob 
was  left  alone;  and  there  wrestled  a 
man  with  him  until  the  breaking  of 
the  day. 

"And  he  said,  Let  me  go  for  the  day 
breaketh.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  let 
thee  go,  except  thou  bless  me."  (Gen. 
32:24,  26.) 

We  read — wisdom  is  better  than 
strength.  Wisdom  is  better  than  weap- 
ons of  war. 

Woe  unto  them  that  are  wise  in  their 
own  eyes,  and  prudent  in  their  own 
sight. 

We  read  in  our  newspaper  the  other 
morning  these  words  of  Secretary  of 
Labor  James  P.  Mitchell.  They  are,  I 
believe,  wise  words.  "Civil  rights  is 
not  solely  a  legal  problem.  Basically  it 
is  a  moral  problem."  It  will  always  be 
a  problem  in  America,  as  long  as  chil- 
dren hear  parents  and  neighbors  utter 
derogatory  remarks  about  other  races, 
creeds,  and  religions.  Our  hiring  prac- 
tices in  labor  in  the  future,  he  says, 
will  have  to  be  based  on  ability  and 
qualifications  for  the  job,  without  re- 
gard to  age  or  sex  or  race  or  creed  or 
national  origin. 

Let  us  not  be  satisfied  with  a  mediocre 
standard  of  our  life's  work.  Destiny 
does  not  bless  a  man  unless  he  has 
endurance  to  wrestle  until  the  breaking 
of  the  day. 

Our  Father  in  heaven,  help  us  to  get 
wisdom  and  use  it  in  our  lives,  we 
humbly  pray.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  Bishop  Thorpe 
B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  dear  brothers  and 
sisters:  One  cannot  help  feeling  hum- 
ble whenever  he  is  occupying  this 
position.  I  think  it  is  the  best  lesson 
we  have  in  bringing  one  to  true  humil- 
ity, and  I  humbly  pray  the  Lord  will 


sustain  me  today  as  I  occupy  this  posi- 
tion. 

We  come  to  these  conferences  happy, 
cheerful,  full  of  love,  with  tolerance 
and  kindness  to  mankind,  and  with 
gratitude  in  our  hearts  to  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father.    Truly,  it  is  always 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


65 


good  to  meet  in  the  conferences  of  the 
Church.  There  is  always  a  beautiful 
spirit  here,  one  of  thanksgiving,  one  of 
friendliness,  one  of  brotherhood,  and 
one  of  appreciation  for  each  other,  and 
particularly  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for 
the  blessings  that  he  has  bestowed  upon 
us  individually  and  as  a  people,  as  a 
Church,  and  as  a  nation.  It  is  always 
good  to  feel  the  wonderful  spirit  that 
is  here,  to  shake  hands  with  friends  and 
old  acquaintances,  leaders  of  wards 
and  stakes,  and  to  feel  truly  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  that  is  always  here  in 
these  sessions.  I  think  everyone  who 
attends  a  general  conference  of  the 
Church  always  feels  that  there  is  an 
unusually  rich  spirit  here  not  enjoyed 
any  other  place. 

A  man  called  me  yesterday  who  had 
not  attended  a  session  of  the  confer- 
ence. I  think  he  had  never  before  in 
his  life  attended.  Sometime  ago  I  urged 
him  to  come  to  one  of  these  conferences, 
and  then  he  could  express  himself  and 
pass  judgment.  He  called  me  later  and 
said,  "I  attended  a  session  of  the  con- 
ference, and  I  have  never  felt  like  that 
before.  I  did  not  realize  how  wonder- 
ful it  was.  Truly,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  here  in  these  conference  sessions." 

If  I  may,  I  would  like  to  say  a  word 
or  two  about  the  dedication  of  the 
London  Temple  and  our  trip  to  London 
and  return.  My  wife  and  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  taking  a  plane  from  Salt 
Lake  to  New  York,  and  then  to  London, 
in  company  with  Elder  and  Sister 
Richard  L.  Evans.  It  was  wonderful  to 
be  with  them.  Truly,  they  are  very 
choice  and  wonderful  people. 

As  one  flies  the  big  blue  Atlantic 
Ocean,  no  matter  how  many  times  he 
may  have  flown  it  before  and  even 
though  the  plane  seems  safe  and 
smooth,  nevertheless,  there  is  a  little 
tension.  When  you  look  down  and 
you  see  the  blue  water  below,  you 
realize  that  you  are  just  above  the  ocean, 
and  then  you  look  up  and  see  the  stars 
in  the  heaven,  and  you  really  feel  and 
know  that  God  is  at  the  helm,  and  it  is 
a  comforting  feeling.  Then  to  have 
people  with  you  like  Brother  and  Sister 
Evans  is  always  very  comforting  indeed, 
and  it  was  to  us.  We  shall  always  be 
grateful  for  their  association,  for  the 


companionship  and  friendship  that  we 
enjoyed  with  Brother  and  Sister  Evans 
on  that  great  trip. 

There  were  so  many  beautiful  expe- 
riences and  incidents  that  happened  in 
connection  with  the  dedication  of  the 
London  Temple  that  perhaps  one  does 
not  truly  sense  an  experience  like  this 
unless  he  is  actually  in  attendance,  and 
it  was  a  beautiful  occasion.  A  rich  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
present,  and  the  spirituality  of  every 
session  was  outstanding.  There  was  a 
spirit  of  love,  a  spirit  of  thanksgiving,  a 
spirit  of  friendship,  a  spirit  of  brother- 
hood, and  a  true  spirit  of  worship  pres- 
ent. Many  of  the  Saints  had  made 
great  sacrifices  and  effort  to  be  in  at- 
tendance for  the  dedication  of  this  tem- 
ple. I  wonder  if  we  can  realize  that 
many  of  them  had  never  before  seen 
the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  the  President 
of  the  Church.  They  were  deeply 
touched  as  were  we  all. 

In  my  visits  to  the  islands  of  the 
Pacific,  I  had  always  thought  that  our 
Hawaiian  friends  in  the  islands  were 
the  only  ones  who  could  sing,  smile, 
and  cry  at  the  same  time,  but  at  the  dedi- 
cation sessions  of  the  London  Temple, 
I  saw  others  who  would  smile,  sing,  and 
cry  at  the  same  time,  and  in  nearly 
every  session,  we  experienced  that  same 
observation.  It  was  because  they  were 
deeply  touched,  humble,  and  grateful. 

We  heard  many  stories  there  regard- 
ing the  sacrifices  that  were  made  by 
many  individuals  in  order  to  attend 
the  dedication.  One  man  had  saved  all 
he  could  for  over  two  years  in  very 
small  amounts,  and  in  our  figures 
equivalent  to  5c,  10c,  15c,  etc.  in  order 
to  have  enough  money  to  attend  the 
dedication  when  that  time  came.  He 
was  so  anxious  to  save  up  enough  money 
so  he  could  attend  the  dedication,  but 
when  the  time  came  for  him  to  go  to 
the  temple,  he  discovered  that  he  lacked 
about  $30.00  in  having  enough  money 
for  him  to  attend.  To  some  of  us,  that 
would  not  seem  very  much,  but  to  him, 
it  was  the  difference  between  his  being 
able  to  go  and  not  going.  Someone 
learned  that  he  needed  an  additional 
$30.00  and  saw  to  it  that  $30.00  was 
furnished  to  him  so  that  he  could  go 
and  not  be  denied  this  great  ambition 


66 

Saturday,  October  II 

and  dream.  Then  this  good  man  said, 
"I  appreciate  this  $30.00,  but  I  want  to 
pay  it  back.  However,  it  may  take  me 
a  year  to  do  it."  You  see,  some  of  these 
choice  people  have  difficulty  financially, 
and  they  do  not  have  the  means. 
I  wonder  if  we  realize  the  difficulty  that 
many  of  our  Saints  have  in  different 
parts  of  the  world  and  the  problems 
they  encounter  in  these  far-off  lands 
so  far  from  the  headquarters  of  the 
Church. 

Another  good  man  who  had  waited 
and  dreamed  for  this  occasion  was  a 
faithful  member  of  the  Church,  and  he, 
too,  had  tried  to  save  all  he  could, 
hoping  that  he  would  have  enough 
money  saved  up  so  that  when  the  time 
came  for  the  temple  dedication,  he 
could  attend.  Just  shortly  before  the 
time  of  the  dedication,  he  became  ill, 
and  his  doctors  told  him  that  it  would 
not  be  wise  for  him  to  go  because  of  a 
very  serious  illness  that  had  come  to 
him  and  perhaps  an  illness  from  which 
he  could  not  recover.  This  good  man 
said,  "Then  the  money  I  have  saved 
for  this  occasion  must  be  used  by  some- 
one else  so  that  he  can  go  and  receive 
the  blessings  that  I  had  hoped  to  re- 
ceive." He  had  never  been  in  the  tem- 
ple in  his  life.  He  had  hoped  and 
planned  to  go,  and  now  he  was  denied 
that  blessing,  but  he  was  willing  and 
anxious  that  someone  else  should  have 
that  blessing.  It  made  nearly  all  of  us 
ashamed  to  live  so  close  to  the  temples 
and  rarely  attend  and  then  to  realize  the 
great  effort  that  our  brothers  and  sisters 
have  been  putting  forth  in  far-off  coun- 
tries in  order  to  go  to  the  temple. 

We  were  grateful  to  hear  the  prayers 
of  the  prophet,  President  David  O. 
McKay.  As  one  of  the  brethren  said 
this  morning,  when  the  young  people 
there  (the  missionaries)  watched  Presi- 
dent McKay  speak  and  heard  his  prayer, 
they  did  not  need  to  be  told  that  he 
was  the  prophet.  Everyone  could  feel 
it.  It  was  a  great,  personal,  spiritual 
strength  to  all  who  attended.  Because 
of  the  power  that  was  given  to  them  by 
the  President  in  his  talk  and  in  his 
prayer,  we  felt  that  every  person  left 
there  with  a  firm  resolve  to  rededicate 
his  life  to  the  Lord.  The  occasion 
there  was  heavenly.  It  was  uplifting. 
It  was  spiritual. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

May  I  be  permitted  to  quote  one  or 
two  thoughts  from  that  beautiful  ap- 
propriate, spiritual  dedicatory  prayer, 
and  since  it  has  now  been  published, 
may  I  plead  with  you  to  please  read  it. 
When  you  read  it,  try  if  you  can  to 
imagine  that  you  are  sitting  in  the 
temple  in  London  hearing  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord  pronounce  that  prayer. 
Then  you,  too,  will  be  greatly  strength- 
ened. May  I  quote  one  or  two  thoughts: 

"May  we  first  express  overwhelming 
gratitude  just  to  be  alive  in  this  great 
age  of  the  world.  We  pause  this  morn- 
ing to  open  our  hearts  to  thee  for  this 
special  privilege.  No  other  time  in 
world  history  has  been  so  wonderful — 
no  other  age  wherein  thy  secret  powers 
have  been  more  within  human  control; 
in  no  other  era  hath  thy  purposes  been 
nearer  human  comprehension.  Help  us, 
O  Lord,  truly  to  livel" 

One  more  thought:  "But  thy  mercy, 
thy  wisdom,  thy  love  are  infinite;  and 
in  dispensations  past  thou  hast  pleaded, 
as  thou  dost  now  plead,  through  chosen 
and  authoritatively  appointed  servants, 
for  thy  erring  children  to  heed  the  gos- 
pel message  and  come  to  thee." 

If  the  world  would  read  that  prayer 
and  accept  it,  it  would  not  be  where 
it  is  today. 

I  truthfully  believe  that  there  are  one 
million  members  of  this  Church — at 
least  those  who  are  old  enough  and  who 
realize  the  value  of  prayer — who  are 
praying  each  day  for  the  President  of 
the  Church,  the  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
and  for  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  We  are  so  profoundly  grate- 
ful to  you  for  your  prayers  and  your 
faith. 

Yes,  this  is  a  great  age  in  which  to 
be  alive,  but  we  also  have  some  fears. 
Peace  or  war?  What  price  for  peace? 
We  hear  so  much  about  war  and  differ- 
ent weapons  of  war  that  sometimes  we 
are  concerned.  There  are  factions  at 
work  to  divide  this  nation.  There  is 
developing,  sad  as  it  may  seem,  a  feel- 
ing of  bitterness  between  groups  within 
our  nation.  The  monster  of  inflation 
is  eating  away.  The  nation  and  the 
American  public  are  in  the  greatest  debt 
they  have  ever  been  in.  The  debt  now 
has  reached  an  all-time  high — a  good 
reason  for  concern.  The  world  has  not 
followed  the  counsel  of  the  Church. 


BISHOP  THOR 

What  price  for  peace?  There  are 
many  who  say  now  that  bombs  are 
being  made  to  destroy  civilization.  What 
of  our  wives  and  mothers,  our  babies 
and  children,  and  our  grandchildren? 
Probably  the  greatest  problem  today 
facing  this  world  is  how  to  get  peace. 
A  great  scientist  has  said  that  it  is  pos- 
sible for  certain  individuals  who  have 
the  controls  of  war  to  lose  their  balance 
of  faculties  in  anger  and  have  bombs 
dropped,  and  in  so  doing,  destroy 
mothers,  wives,  children,  and  innocent 
people  by  the  millions.  One  bomb,  it 
is  said,  dropped  in  the  city  of  the  Los 
Angeles  area  could  destroy  every  living 
creature  and  cause  every  building  to  fall 
in  ashes  between  Santa  Monica  on  the 
west,  Los  Angeles,  Long  Beach,  Pasa- 
dena, and  San  Bernardino  on  the  east. 

What  price  for  peace?  There  are  some 
scientists  who  predict  that  we  are  headed 
for  very  serious  trouble  from  spawning 
radiation.  There  is  perhaps  an  answer 
to  it  all.  Power?  Power  is  not  the  an- 
swer. Faith  is  the  answer.  Would  the 
people  of  this  nation  be  willing  to  live 
in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of 
God  in  order  to  guarantee  peace?  In 
recorded  history,  we  have  recognized 
that  in  times  past,  because  of  the  right- 
eousness of  the  people,  the  Lord  has 
seen  fit  to  protect  a  nation  and  stay  the 
hands  of  those  who  would  destroy  civ- 
ilization. 

Prayer  is  that  weapon.  Prayer  is  a 
force  as  real  as  gravity.  True  prayer 
and  worship  have  always  been  an  ac- 
knowledged necessity  of  all  mankind. 
One  poet  has  called  prayer  "the  bridge 
which  reaches  from  earth  to  heaven, 
and  the  one  pathway  from  despair."  I 
wonder  if  we  are  on  speaking  terms  with 
the  Lord.  Do  we  have  companionship 
with  him?  Can  he  reach  us  if  he  wishes 
to? 

The  other  day  in  a  meeting  in  the 
temple,  President  Clark  was  offering 
the  prayer.  It  was  so  sacred  and  so 
beautiful  that  one  hesitates  to  mention 
it.  He  prayed  for  the  membership  of 
the  Church,  pleading  with  us  to  make 
sure  that  we  are  living  so  that  God  can 
speak  to  us  if  he  so  wishes.  I  wonder 
if  this  nation  and  the  nations  of  the 
world  would  listen  if  God  spoke  to 
them. 

Someone  has  said  there  are  too  many 


i  B.  ISAACSON  67 

people  trying  to  get  along  without  God, 
and  too  many  nations  have  turned  from 
Christ.  Religion  is  considered  by  those 
who  know  the  meaning  of  it  as  the 
greatest  blessing  that  can  come  to  man. 
There  is  no  place  in  the  world  that  does 
not  contain  some  trace  of  God.  He  has 
left  his  sacred  marks  everywhere,  and 
they  need  only  to  be  found  to  be 
realized. 

"Religion  is  the  bond  that  binds  man 
to  God.  It  is  the  golden  arch  that 
leads  to  happiness;  destroy  it  and  chaos 
will  result." 

Religion  is  playing  a  great  part  in  the 
lives  of  men  today,  and  if  men  would 
accept  the  true  religion,  there  would  be 
no  war  because  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  one  finds  peace,  not  turmoil; 
love,  not  hatred;  and  the  answer  to  the 
turmoil  in  the  world  and  the  threat  of 
war  is  the  acceptance  of  Christ  and  his 
teachings,  for  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God, 
the  Savior  of  the  world. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  play 
the  most  important  part  in  any  man's 
life.  "The  only  man  who  can  be  tri- 
umphantly hopeful  in  these  days  is  the 
man  whose  heart  is  knit  to  the  coming 
of  the  kingdom  of  God." 

What  price  for  peace?  Power?  "Power 
is  never  good  except  he  be  good  that  has 
it."  The  key  to  all  our  problems,  to 
life  itself,  is  God  our  Father.  He  is 
every  man's  first  need.  One  writer  has 
said:  "Give  me  a  light  that  I  may  tread 
safely  into  the  unknown,"  and  one  re- 
plied, "Go  out  into  the  darkness  and 
put  your  hand  into  the  hand  of  God — 
that  shall  be  better  than  a  light  and 
safer  than  a  known  way." 

And  this  might  help:  "Oh,  God,  as  I 
begin  this  day  and  this  new  way  of 
life,  I  put  my  hand  in  thine.  May  I 
not  miss  a  step  with  thee  today;  may  I 
be  controlled  by  thy  love.  May  my 
strong  urges  be  taken  hold  by  thy  love 
and  turned  toward  thy  kingdom." 

What  we  find  in  life  depends  upon 
what  we  give  life.  The  same  skies  are 
dull  and  leaden  to  one,  but  glorious  with 
their  own  blue  to  another.  So  often  we 
leave  beauties  and  experiences  of  worth 
unappreciated  and  untouched,  even  un- 
seen. I  wonder  if  we  could  not  change 
our  lives  a  little  and  say,  "Let  us  all  be 
kind  to  one  another,  for  most  of  us  are 
fighting  a  hard  battle  anyway." 


68 

Saturday,  October  11 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  that  God 
lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son.  I 
know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  there 
are  prophets  in  the  earth  today,  the 
same  as  the  prophets  of  old.  May  God 
bless  the  membership  of  this  Church 
and  the  youth  of  this  Church  particu- 
larly. Let's  take  care  of  them,  because 
in  not  too  many  years,  this  building 
will  be  filled  with  those  who  are  young 
today. 

May  God  bless  us  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  of  the  Church. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  will 
now  lead  the  Congregation  in  singing, 
"Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Communed 
With  Jehovah."  Elder  John  Longden 
will  speak  after  the  singing. 


The  congregation  and  the  Singing 
Mothers  Chorus  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Com- 
muned With  Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Thank  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
those  of  you  who  were  here  this  morning 
for  your  sustaining  vote.  I  assure  you 
that  I  will  do  everything  within  my 
power  to  be  worthy  of  that  vote  as  I  go 
about  the  Church  serving  the  mem- 
bership, our  Heavenly  Father  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  would  be  ungrateful  if  I  did  not 
mention  something  about  one  of  our 
colleagues,  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young. 
It  was  not  my  privilege  to  be  here  when 
he  passed  away,  so  I  did  not  attend  his 
funeral  service.  I  was  touring  a  mission 
at  the  time.  I  am  most  grateful  for  his 
companionship,  for  the  splendid  char- 
acteristics exemplified  in  his  life,  in- 
tegrity to  his  calling,  his  faith  and 
testimony  of  the  gospel,  and  his  un- 
selfish service,  many  times,  I  am  sure, 
filling  his  assignments  when  he  was 
suffering  physically  though  he  did  not 
indicate  it. 

I  pray  that  I  may  imbibe  and  partake 
of  these  excellent  lessons. 

Then  I  welcome  and  look  with  joy 
and  great  anticipation  toward  associat- 
ing with  these  two  splendid  men  you 
sustained  this  morning,  Elders  Critch- 
low  and  Dyer.  I  have  known  them 
both  for  many  years,  thirty  or  upwards. 
Having  been  employed  by  the  same 
company  that  Elder  Critchlow  has  been 


with  for  so  many  years,  I  have  seen 
him  under  fire,  but  he  has  always  come 
through  a  devoted  son  of  God. 

Likewise  with  Brother  Dyer.  I  have 
known  of  his  work  in  the  Church  and 
just  recently  as  I  had  the  privilege  of 
attending  the  Kansas  City  Stake  con- 
ference, I  felt  of  his  spirit  there  and  the 
spirit  of  many  of  his  missionaries.  So 
I  am  looking  forward  to  closer  associa- 
tion with  these  splendid  servants  of  the 
Lord. 

And  now  I  would  give  you  words  to 
live  by  if  the  spirit  will  so  dictate.  I 
am  reminded  of  an  experience  that  hap- 
pened in  the  life  of  President  George 
Albert  Smith.  Several  years  before 
he  became  President  of  the  Church,  he 
gave  a  home  for  some  months  to  a 
couple  from  Holland.  They  could 
speak  but  a  few  words  of  English  and 
could  understand  very  little  English. 
However,  the  Dutch  brother  insisted 
on  going  to  the  English-speaking  fast 
meetings  and  after  about  the  third  fast 
meeting  as  President  Smith  and  he  were 
walking  back  to  the  Smith  home,  Presi- 
dent Smith  asked,  "Why  is  it  that  you 
insist  on  going  to  the  English-speaking 
fast  meeting  when  you  understand  so 
little  of  what  is  being  said?"  Here  was 
the  significant  reply  from  the  Dutch 
brother,  "It  is  not  what  I  see  that  makes 


ELDER  JOHN 

me  happy.  It  is  not  what  I  hear  that 
makes  me  happy.  It  is  what  I  feel  that 
makes  me  happy,  and  I  can  feel  just  as 
good  as  anybody." 

Yes,  there  are  many  who  hear  and 
yet  do  not  hear.  There  are  many  who 
see,  yet  do  not  see.  If  our  lives  are  in 
tune  with  the  glorious  teachings  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  then  we  can  feel 
just  as  good  as  anybody.  We  feel  as 
good  as  anybody  because  we  have  a 
witness  and  a  conviction  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ.  "If  any  man  will  do  his 
will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself."  (John  7:17.)  There  is 
no  hesitancy,  no  surmising,  no  groping, 
but  an  assurance  that  God  lives,  that 
he  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits  and  that 
Jesus  is  his  Divine  Son,  that  they  have 
again  appeared  in  the  earth  in  this  dis- 
pensation as  we  have  so  gloriously  sung 
a  few  moments  ago. 

Yes,  I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony 
of  Joseph  Smith. 

It  is  interesting  that  I  should  have 
copied  that  testimony  and  his  witness 
and  that  this  song  should  be  sung  just 
previous  to  my  being  called  to  occupy 
this  position.  May  I  give  it  to  you? 
He  likened  his  experience  to  that  of  Paul 
when  he  said: 

"However,  it  was  nevertheless  a  fact 
that  I  had  beheld  a  vision.  I  have 
thought  since,  that  I  felt  much  like 
Paul,  when  he  made  his  defense  before 
King  Agrippa,  and  related  the  account 
of  the  vision  he  had  when  he  saw  a 
light,  and  heard  a  voice;  but  still  there 
were  but  few  who  believed  him;  some 
said  he  was  dishonest,  others  said  he 
was  mad;  and  he  was  ridiculed  and 
reviled.  But  all  this  did  not  destroy  the 
reality  of  his  vision.  He  had  seen  a 
vision,  he  knew  he  had,  and  all  the 
persecution  under  heaven  could  not 
make  it  otherwise;  and  though  they 
should  persecute  him  unto  death,  yet 
he  knew,  and  would  know  to  his  latest 
breath,  that  he  had  both  seen  a  light 
and  heard  a  voice  speaking  unto  him, 
and  all  the  world  could  not  make  him 
think  or  believe  otherwise."  (Joseph 
Smith  2:24.) 

Then  Joseph  further  says: 

"So  it  was  with  me.  I  had  actually 
seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  Personages,  and  they 


LONGDEN  69 

did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and  though 
I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying 
that  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet  it  was  true; 
and  while  they  were  persecuting  me, 
reviling  me,  and  speaking  all  manner 
of  evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying, 
I  was  led  to  say  in  my  heart:  Why 
persecute  me  for  telling  the  truth?  I 
have  actually  seen  a  vision;  and  who 
am  I  that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why 
does  the  world  think  to  make  me  deny 
what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had 
seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew 
that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny 
it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God, 
and  come  under  condemnation."  (Ibid., 
2:25.) 

My,  what  a  powerful  testimony!  And 
there  are  thousands  throughout  the 
Church  today,  yes,  thousands  upon 
thousands  who  have  a  witness  within 
their  hearts  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  they  did  appear  to 
the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  even  though  they 
have  not  seen  or  experienced  a  like 
privilege.  The  Holy  Spirit  bears  wit- 
ness to  this  in  the  hearts  of  young  and 
old  alike.  They  feel  good  inside  be- 
cause they  are  living  the  truths  of  the 
gospel  which  have  been  revealed  in 
this  day. 

I  should  like  to  give  you  the  witness 
from  a  young  girl,  seventeen  years  of 
age,  a  beautiful  young  lady,  growing 
into  womanhood.  There  was  a  period 
in  her  life  when  she  might  not  have 
been  too  sure  of  her  religious  convic- 
tions, but  she  is  being  reared  in  a  good 
home  where  the  tenets  of  the  gospel 
are  lived,  where  parents  (the  father 
now  passed  away)  feel  good  because 
they  are  in  tune.  Then  she  has  some 
wonderful  teachers  and  instructors  in 
the  organizations  of  the  Church.  To- 
day she  feels  good  because  she  has  a 
burning  testimony. 

May  I  read  her  witness? 

First,  she  said  a  group  of  MIA  young 
folk  invited  some  young  people  of  an- 
other church  to  visit  a  fireside.  Sixty 
of  them  responded;  there  were  only 
forty  members  of  our  Church  present. 
She  says  there  was  a  great  impression 
made  upon  many  of  the  young  folk, 
both  members  and  nonmembers.  They 
loved  their  teacher,  Sister  Nona  Dyer, 
who  happens  to  be  the  daughter  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


70 

Saturday,  October  11 

Brother  and  Sister  LeGrand  Richards. 
Here  is  her  witness: 

"I  really  love  the  gospel,  and  it  is 
the  most  powerful  influence  in  my  lite. 
It  seems  that  the  older  I  get,  the  deeper 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel  penetrates  my 
soul,  and  the  more  beautiful  life  be- 
comes. 

"I  certainly  do  admire  Daddy  for  the 
way  he  lived  the  gospel  and  the  exam- 
ple he  set  for  others,  and  Mother,  who 
is  so  unselfish.  I  just  hope  that  some- 
day I  can  learn  to  be  that  kind  of 
person  and  give  something  to  others  in 
return  for  what  has  been  given  to  me." 

These  words  we  have  heard,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  are  words  to  live  by. 
They  bring  peace  and  joy  and  hope  in 
our  hearts,  regardless  of  what  the  con- 
ditions in  the  world  may  be.  As  we 
follow  truth  and  abide  by  gospel  teach- 
ings, we  have  no  need  to  fear,  I  assure 
you.  Regardless  of  who  we  are,  we 
must  keep  alive  this  testimony  in  our 
hearts. 

In  conclusion,  I  will  give  you  an  expe- 
rience that  came  to  me  from  my  col- 
league, Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  a  year 
or  so  ago.  It  seems  that  before  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  passed  away,  and  many 
of  you  know  that  he  was  ill  for  many 
months,  but  three  or  four  weeks  before 
he  passed  away,  Brother  Young  was  in 
his  home  visiting  him.  President  Grant 
uttered  this  prayer:  "O  God,  bless  me 
that  I  shall  not  lose  my  testimony  and 


Second  Day 

keep  faithful  to  the  end!"  Here  was 
the  prophet  of  the  Lord  at  that  time, 
holding  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  pray- 
ing that  he  would  not  lose  his  testi- 
mony, that  he  would  remain  faithful 
to  the  end,  even  though  he  lay  on  his 
sickbed  and  must  have  known  that  he 
would  never  be  well  again. 

Does  it  behoove  us,  then,  brothers  and 
sisters,  to  be  faithful  to  the  end  that 
we  may  keep  alive  our  testimonies 
through  our  works?  The  Holy  Spirit 
will  keep  us  feeling  good  if  we  do  our 
part  and  remain  faithful  to  the  end. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  I  know 
that  good  feeling  because  I  know  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  divine 
Son,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a 
prophet  of  God  and  those  who  have 
succeeded  him  down  to  President  David 
O.  McKay  are  prophets  of  God,  and 
he,  President  McKay,  has  the  mantle  of 
authority  and  holds  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth.  And  I 
bear  this  testimony  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
S.  Dilworth  Young. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
wholly  dependent  upon  your  faith  and 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  directing 
me  to  say  what  I  shall  say  upon  this 
occasion.  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the 
proceedings  of  this  conference.  Many 
things  have  been  referred  to,  and  among 
them  was  the  testing  that  we  undergo 
in  this  life.  Patriarch  Smith  referred 
to  that,  and  in  the  few  moments  for 
me  to  speak  I  should  like  to  make  some 
reference  to  the  uses  of  adversity.  We 
are  all  subject  to  adversities.  I  need 
not  enlarge  upon  that. 

The  Lord  said  to  Adam  that  for  his 
sake  the  earth  was  cursed  and  that  he 


should  eat  his  food  in  sorrow  all  the 
days  of  his  life.  The  scriptures  say  that 
man  is  born  unto  trouble  as  the  sparks 
fly  upward,  which  means  that  it  is  in 
the  design  of  God  that  we  should  have 
these  adversities  and  experiences  in  the 
world.  In  the  midst  of  life,  death  and 
a  sea  of  trials  and  troubles  are  ever  with 
us.  So  none  of  us  are  free  from  them, 
and  it  follows  that  we  should  find  some 
way  of  meeting  them  successfully.  As 
the  Lord  planned  this  earth,  and  in 
these  plans  were  these  problems,  trials, 
and  difficulties,  he  would  not  leave  us 
without  the  means  of  meeting  them,  and 
so  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  the  Lord 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


71 


Jesus  Christ,  to  the  world  to  bring  us 
the  means  of  meeting  all  the  conditions 
that  we  have  to  meet  in  this  world. 

As  the  Apostle  Paul  in  the  midst  of 
Mars'  hill  was  declaring  to  his  pagan 
listeners  the  unknown  God,  he  said: 
"For  in  him  we  live,  and  move,  and 
have  our  being;  .  .  ."  (Acts  17:28)  and 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  whose  hands 
the  Father  gave  all  things  has  said,  "I 
am  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world." 
(See  John  8:12.)  It  follows  that  if  we 
are  truly  intelligent  we  will  center  our 
lives  in  him. 

I  should  like  to  read  to  you  a  few  short 
testimonies  of  those  who  may  have  done 
so.  The  scriptures  say:  "It  is  better 
to  go  to  the  house  of  mourning  than 
to  the  house  of  feasting.  .  .  . 

"Sorrow  is  better  than  laughter;  for 
by  the  sadness  of  the  countenance  the 
heart  is  made  better."  (Eccl.  7:2-3.) 

I  wonder  if  we  realize  the  truth  of 
that.  Let  me  read  these  testimonies. 
There  are  a  number  of  them,  but  they 
are  very  short  and  to  the  point,  and 
they  may  have  messages  that  will  uplift 
and  bless  many  who  are  here  or  who 
will  hear  them,  who  are  in  need  of 
them. 

"Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity, 
which,  like  a  toad,  though  ugly  and 
venomous,  wears  yet  a  precious  jewel 
in  its  head."  (Shakespeare.) 

"Affliction  is  the  wholesome  soil  of 
virtue,  where  patience,  honor,  sweet 
humility,  and  calm  fortitude,  take  root 
and  strongly  flourish."  (Mallet.) 

"Paradoxical  as  it  may  seem,  God 
means  not  only  to  make  us  good,  but 
to  make  us  also  happy,  by  sickness, 
disaster  and  disappointment."  (C.  A. 
Bartol.) 

This  short  one,  which  evidently  came 
from  the  heart  of  the  woman  who  ex- 
pressed it  struck  me  forcibly:  "Ah!  If 
you  only  knew  the  peace  there  is  in 
an  accepted  sorrow."  (Mde.  Guion.) 

"It  is  a  great  thing,  when  the  cup  of 
bitterness  is  pressed  to  our  lips,  to  feel 
that  it  is  not  fate  or  necessity,  but  divine 
love  working  upon  us  for  good  ends." 
(E.  H.  Chapin.) 

"Affliction  comes  to  us  all  not  to 
make  us  sad,  but  sober;  not  to  make  us 
sorry,  but  wise;  not  to  make  us  de- 
spondent, but  by  its  darkness  to  re- 
fresh us,  as  the  night  refreshes  the  day; 


not  to  impoverish,  but  to  enrich  us." 
(Henry  Ward  Beecher.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  one  time 
said,  when  someone  had  remarked  that 
somebody  had  affliction  because  of  their 
sins,  that  it  is  an  unhallowed  statement 
to  make,  that  afflictions  come  to  all. 
And  M.  Henry  said:  "Extraordinary  af- 
flictions are  not  always  the  punishment 
of  extraordinary  sins,  but  sometimes  the 
trial  of  extraordinary  graces.  Sanctified 
afflictions  are  spiritual  promotions." 

I  wonder  if  we  may  not  at  some  later 
time  envy  those  splended  people  who 
have  had  so  many  afflictions.  "No 
Christian  but  has  his  Gethsemane;  but 
every  praying  Christian  will  find  there 
is  no  Gethsemane  without  its  angel." 
(T.  Binney.) 

The  final  one:  "Strength  is  born  in 
the  deep  silence  of  long-suffering  hearts: 
not  amid  joy."  (Mrs.  Hermans.) 

The  Lord  has  expressed  himself  about 
these  adversities  that  come,  and  I  speak, 
for  example,  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  who  had  adversity  from  the  mo- 
ment he  delivered  his  glorious  message 
of  the  vision  in  the  grove.  You  will 
remember  in  Liberty  Jail  he  cried  out, 
"O  God,  where  art  thou?  And  where 
is  the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy  hiding 
place? 

"Yea,  O  Lord,  how  long  shall  they 
[thy  Saints]  suffer  these  wrongs  and 
unlawful  oppressions,  before  thine  heart 
shall  be  softened  toward  them,  and 
thy  bowels  be  moved  with  compassion 
toward  them?"  (D  &  C  121:1,  3.) 

What  was  the  Lord's  answer  to  this 
prayer?  "My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy 
soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  affliction 
shall  be  but  a  small  moment; 

"And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well, 
God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high;  thou 
shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes."  (Ibid., 
121:7-8.)  Then  the  Lord  held  up  be- 
fore him  other  trials  and  difficulties 
that  were  to  come,  some  even  worse 
than  he  had  had,  but  then  said  to  him: 
".  .  .  know  thou,  my  son,  that  all  these 
things  shall  give  thee  experience,  and 
shall  be  for  thy  good. 

"The  Son  of  Man  hath  descended 
below  them  all.  Art  thou  greater  than 
he?"  (Ibid.,  122:7-8.) 

So,  in  adversity  we  may  have  that 
which  will  exalt  us,  or  we  may  have 
that  which  will  degrade  us.    We  may 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


72 

Saturday,  October  11 

have  that  which,  "if  we  endure  it  well," 
will  ennoble  us,  and  we  may  have  that 
which,  if  we  indulge  in  self-pity  and 
bitterness,  may  destroy  us.  In  all  our 
adversities  there  are  these  two  elements, 
and  the  determining  factor  is  how  shall 
we  endure  them?  Shall  we  endure 
them  well?  If  not,  they  may  destroy 
us. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  one  per- 
fect being  in  the  world,  was  described 
by  Isaiah  as  "despised  and  rejected  of 
men,  a  man  of  sorrows;  and  acquainted 
with  grief."  (Isaiah  53:3.)  That  de- 
scribes his  life,  the  one  perfect  life 
lived  in  the  world,  full  of  love  and  of 
service.  President  Clark  referred  to  his 
Gethsemane,  and  I  will  read  the  detail 
of  it,  the  Savior  crying  to  the  Father: 

"Father,  if  thou  be  willing,  remove 
this  cup  from  me:  nevertheless  not  my 
will,  but  thine,  be  done. 

"And  there  appeared  an  angel  unto 
him  from  heaven,  strengthening  him. 

"And  being  in  an  agony  he  prayed 
more  earnestly:  and  his  sweat  was  as  it 
were  great  drops  of  blood  falling  to  the 
ground."  (Luke  22:42-44.) 

And  then  on  the  cross,  in  the  lone- 
someness  and  terrible  suffering  of  his 
dying  moments,  he  cried  out,  using  the 
words  of  the  twenty-second  Psalm,  "My 
God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou  forsaken 
me?"  (Matt.  27:46.) 

Someone  has  said  that  in  every  great 
soul  there  must  come  a  moment  when 
he  is  left  to  himself,  and  no  doubt  at 
that  time  that  was  the  feeling  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  purpose  of  the 
Father  in  not  removing  the  cup  from 
the  Savior  in  the  depth  of  his  suffer- 
ing and  the  place  sorrow  may  have  in 
our  lives  is  made  clear  in  his  answer 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph's  prayer,  and  in 
the  testimony  of  the  Apostle  Paul  as 
follows: 


Second  Day 

"Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned 
he  obedience  by  the  things  which  he 
suffered; 

"And  being  made  perfect,  he  became 
the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all 
them  that  obey  him."  (Hebrews  5:8-9.) 

"For  it  became  him,  for  whom  are 
all  things,  and  by  whom  are  all  things, 
in  bringing  many  sons  unto  glory,  to 
make  the  captain  of  their  salvation  per- 
fect through  sufferings."  (Ibid.,  2:10.) 

I  should  like  to  close  with  the  testi- 
mony of  President  David  O.  McKay. 

"Upon  the  membership  of  this  Church 
rests  the  obligation  to  teach  the  divinity 
of  Jesus  Christ,  in  whose  perfection  we 
find  every  virtue;  in  whom  are  com- 
bined in  wonderful  harmony  all  the 
powers  of  the  soul;  in  whose  life  and 
teachings  we  can  find  every  comfort, 
and  if  we  go  to  him  in  humility  and 
faith,  every  guidance  and  inspiration 
we  need. 

"Our  Lord,  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
is  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  know 
the  reality  of  his  existence,  of  his  will- 
ingness to  guide  and  direct  all  who 
serve  him."— "The  Man  of  Nazareth," 
The  Improvement  Era,  December  1957. 

I  add  to  that  testimony  my  humble 
testimony  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  organized  this, 
his  Church,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  in  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  and  that  he  is  directing 
it  as  here  implied,  through  his  servant, 
President  David  O.  McKay,  I  bear  this 
witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  George 
Q.  Morris  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  conclude  this 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


With  all  my  heart  I  find  echo  in  the 
testimonies  which  have  been  borne  yes- 
terday and  today  respecting  the  mission 
of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  his 
relationship  to  the  Son  of  God,  even 
Jesus  Christ.    In  the  same  breath  I 


wish,  also,  to  tell  President  McKay,  so 
that  he  can  hear  me  say  it,  that  I  up- 
hold and  sustain  him  as  a  successor  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God.  And  I  pledge  myself,  as  I 
have  in  the  past,  to  support  him,  his 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


73 


counselors,  and  the  Twelve  in  doing 
whatsoever  I  shall  be  assigned  to  do. 

I  say  this  now  because  I  am  going  to 
do  something  which  I  dislike  very  much 
to  do.  For  the  few  minutes  that  I  have 
I  want  to  change  the  tenor  of  this  con- 
ference and  talk  of  something  else.  Also, 
I  should  like  to  explain  to  you  that  I 
am  going  to  reverse  the  process  which 
I  normally  would  use.  I  am  going  to 
make  a  conclusion,  and  then  explain 
the  reasons  for  it.  Normally  I  would 
give  the  reasons,  and  then  state  the 
conclusion. 

If  I  had  a  loaded  gun  in  my  closet, 
and  ignored  the  possibility  of  my  chil- 
dren using  it,  I  would  be  a  derelict 
parent.  And  if  I  said,  in  addition  to 
that,  "Why  doesn't  the  Church  do  some- 
thing about  it?"  I  would  be  thought  a 
fool,  and  justly,  too.  If  I  as  a  father 
knew  of  a  condition  which,  though  it 
might  not  be  able  to  kill  the  body  as  a 
gun  might,  could  slay  my  son's  spirit 
eternally,  and  did  nothing  to  change  it, 
to  the  extent  that  I  remained  passive,  the 
sin  would  be  upon  my  head.  Then  if  I 
should  say,  in  addition  to  that,  "I  can- 
not understand  why  the  Church  doesn't 
do  something  about  it,"  I  would  be  vain, 
for  so  far  as  my  family  is  concerned  I 
am  the  Church.  It  is  my  responsibility 
to  protect  my  family  and  not  depend 
upon  anyone  else  to  do  it.  I  may  ask 
for  help  from  Church  members  and 
others,  but  I  am  the  primary  protector. 

In  1910  I  stood  next  to  the  back  fence 
of  the  Lowell  School  with  several  of 
my  classmates.  A  seventeen-year-old  boy 
was  there — we  were  about  eleven  years 
of  age — and  he  was  exhibiting  a  picture 
and  bragging  to  us  small  children  his 
enjoyment  of  the  situation  depicted 
thereon.  I  need  not  tell  you  that  the 
picture  was  pornographic  in  its  nature, 
nor  describe  it  further  in  detail.  I  saw 
it  for  not  more  than  four  seconds — just 
that  long.  It  has  been  nearly  fifty  years, 
and  I  cannot,  and  have  not  been  able 
to  forget  it.  It  has  a  way  of  boring 
itself  into  my  mind,  generally  during 
the  times  I  especially  would  not  want 
it  to. 

The  other  day  I  was  standing  in  a 
store  near  a  magazine  rack.  In  front 
of  the  rack  were  two  young  men,  I 


should  judge  about  sixteen  years  of  age. 
They  each  had  in  their  hands  a  copy 
of  a  magazine  they  had  picked  from 
that  stand.  I  was  not  so  far  away  but 
what  I  could  see  at  what  they  were 
looking.  One  boy  would  turn  a  page, 
then  snicker  and  nudge  his  companion 
who  would  look,  and  then  he  in  his 
turn  would  guffaw  and  in  a  moment  or 
two  repeat  the  process. 

They  did  not  purchase  these  maga- 
zines. After  they  had  satiated  them- 
selves with  the  material  therein,  they 
put  them  back  on  the  rack  and  went 
out  of  the  store.  I  followed  them  for 
a  moment  and  watched  them  go  up  the 
street.  When  they  got  out  into  the 
open,  where  they  were  not  inhibited, 
from  the  noises  they  made,  from  the 
laughter,  and  the  joking  and  the  kidding 
with  each  other,  I  would  not  need  to 
have  been  a  prophet  to  have  been  able 
to  predict  what  they  would  do  that 
night. 

Those  pictures  in  the  magazines  were 
not  one  whit  less  than  what  I  saw  fifty 
years  ago.  How  widespread  do  you 
brethren  think  that  practice  is?  How 
far  does  it  extend?  I  would  ask  you. 
My  father  never  knew  what  I  saw.  I 
never  did  tell  him.  Do  you  know  what 
your  sons  are  looking  at  when  they 
stop  in  front  of  drugstore,  department 
store,  other  store  magazine  racks? 

May  I  take  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  two  verses  of  scripture  which 
I  am  sure  have  not  been  applied  to  this 
particular  thing,  but  which  I  should 
like  to  apply.  One  is  a  prophecy  and 
a  warning:  ".  .  .  In  consequence  of 
evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will 
exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men 
in  the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you,  and 
forewarn  you.  .  .  ."  (D  &  C  89:4.) 

And  the  other:  ".  .  .  inasmuch  as 
parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any 
of  her  stakes  .  .  .  that  teach  them  not 
to  understand  .  .  .  the  sin  be  upon  the 
heads  of  the  parents.  .  .  .  And  they 
shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray, 
and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord." 
(Ibid.,  68:25,  28.) 

May  God  bless  us  to  become  alert  to 
probably  the  most  insidious  danger  that 
confronts  our  boys  today,  I  humbly  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


74 

Saturday,  October  11 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  will  now  sing,  "Home,  Sweet 
Home,"  conducted  by  Florence  Jepper- 
son  Madsen.  The  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  LeGrand  F.  Smith, 
formerly  president  of  the  Gulf  States 
Mission,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  7  o'clock  this 
evening,  when  the  General  Priesthood 
Meeting  of  the  Church  will  be  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  Only 
those  holding  the  Priesthood  are  invited 
to  be  present.  Persons  not  holding  the 
Priesthood  will  kindly  refrain  from  at- 
tempting to  enter  the  building.  This 
Priesthood  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 
In  addition,  however,  to  overflow  meet- 
ings in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall,  the  proceedings  of  the 
Priesthood  Meeting  will  be  relayed  by 
closed  circuit  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  139  other  Church 
buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast  and  in 
Canada. 

The  general  sessions  tomorrow  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over  tel- 
evision and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  west.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  be  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15  a.m.  It 
is  requested  that  the  audience  during 
the  broadcast  refrain  from  making  any 
disturbance. 

We  remind  you,  as  we  have  done 
before,  that  large  crowds  will  undoubt- 
edly be  waiting  outside  the  closed  doors, 
and  when  opened  there  is  usually  a 
rush  by  those  outside  to  get  good  seats. 
We  plead  with  those  thus  standing  to 
be  courteous,  considerate  one  of  an- 
other. Avoid  pushing  and  crowding, 
will  you  please.  Courtesy  is  a  great 
virtue.  Let  us  show  it  one  to  another, 
and  especially  to  our  visitors  who  are 
within  our  city  gates. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Just  a  word  more  of  appreciation  of 
these  lovely  women.  I  believe  I  am 
right  in  saying  that  as  a  visiting  choir, 
a  guest  choir,  they  have  rendered  greater 
service  and  sung  in  more  sessions  than 
any  other  group  I  can  call  to  mind  at 
this  time  in  all  my  experience.  They 
were  here  all  day  Tuesday  recording, 
attended  Relief  Society  sessions  all  day 
Wednesday  and  Thursday,  with  us  two 
sessions  Friday,  and  all  day  today.  No 
wonder  they  are  going  to  sing  "Home, 
Sweet  Home." 

I  cannot  refrain  from  applying  the 
words  of  the  prince  when  he  spoke  to 
his  father  about  his  mother:  "She  of 
whom  you  speak,  my  mother,  seems  as 
true  as  some  serene  creation,  minted  in 
the  golden  mood  of  sovereign  artist,  not 
a  thought,  a  touch,  but  pure  as  lines 
of  green  that  streak  the  first  white  of 
the  snowdrop's  inner  leaves."  That  is 
a  beautiful  tribute  to  a  mother,  and  we 
pay  it  to  these  mothers,  not  only  for 
their  beauty  of  character,  beauty  of 
motherhood,  but  their  self-denial  to 
render  service  to  the  Church,  leaving 
their  homes  for  practicing  hour  after 
hour,  and  in  these  cases,  day  after  day, 
paying  their  own  expenses  up  here  and 
devoting  all  this  service.  I  know  I  ex- 
press what  is  in  your  heart  and  in  the 
hearts  of  all  who  listen  when  I  say, 
"Sister  Madsen  and  every  mother  in 
the  Singing  Chorus,  God  bless  you." 

They  will  now  sing,  "Home,  Sweet 
Home,"  and  Elder  LeGrand  F.  Smith 
will  offer  the  benediction.  He  is  for- 
merly president  of  the  Gulf  States  Mis- 
sion. This  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  tonight  at  7:00  p.m. 


Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus,  "Home,  Sweet  Home." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
LeGrand  F.  Smith,  formerly  president 
of  the  Gulf  States  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  o'clock 
p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Saturday  evening, 
October  11,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  exercises  of  this  meet- 
ing. The  President  made  introductory 
remarks  as  follows: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  will  be  interested  to  know,  my 
brethren,  that  these  services  are  being 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  139  other 
Church  buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast 
and  in  Canada. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie  directing,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing,  "The  Spirit  of  God."  After  the 
singing  Elder  Harold  W.  Lee,  formerly 
president  of  the  French  Mission,  will 
offer  the  opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  "The  Spirit  Of  God 
Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  W.  Lee,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Mission,  will  now 
offer  the  invocation. 


Elder  Harold  W.  Lee,  formerly  pres- 
ident of  the  French  Mission,  offered  the 
invocation. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "Give  Ear,  O 
Lord,"  directed  by  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie. 


The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sang,  "Give  Ear,  O  Lord." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening  will  be 
Bishop  Joseph  B.  Wirthlin  of  the  Bonne- 
ville Ward,  Bonneville  Stake.  The 
theme  will  be  reverence  in  Sacrament 
Meetings  and  other  ward  meetings,  and 
how  to  obtain  it. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  B.  WIRTHLIN 

of  the  Bonneville  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake 


Dear  President  McKay  and  brethren 
of  the  Priesthood:  I  feel  very  humble 
in  this  assignment  tonight  and  pray  for 
the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to 
be  with  me  that  I  may  say  those  things 
that  will  be  of  benefit  to  the  Church. 

President  McKay  has  asked  that  I 
speak  to  the  subject,  "Ways  and  Means 
of  Keeping  Reverence  in  our  Sacrament 
Meetings." 

As  all  of  you  know,  this  has  been  a 
very  important  subject  to  President 
McKay.  He  has  emphasized  it  through- 
out his  life  and,  I  am  sure,  is  very 
anxious  for  all  of  us  to  teach  our  fam- 
ilies, and  all  the  members  of  the  Church, 


to  be  reverent  in  Sacrament  Meeting. 

Eight  years  ago,  when  the  Bonneville 
Chapel  had  been  completed  and  we 
held  our  first  meeting  in  that  beautiful 
edifice,  President  McKay  was  our  speak- 
er. At  that  time  he  emphasized  this 
great  ideal  of  reverence  and  admonished 
us  to  teach  reverence  to  our  children, 
that  they  would  be  reverent  in  Sacra- 
ment Meeting,  and  promised  us  that  the 
Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  would 
be  in  our  meetings  if  we  would  be  rev- 
erent. 

We  are  not  perfect  in  our  ward,  but 
I  believe  that  some  advancement  has 
been  made  in  this  regard,  and  I  can  tell 


76 

Saturday,  October  11 

you  brethren  that  we  have  enjoyed  the 
Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  have 
a  rich,  warm  and  friendly  spirit  in  our 
Church.  This  we  must  not  change.  But 
at  times  we  overdo  this  friendly  spirit 
and  we  become  irreverent. 

I  should  like  to  consider  reverence, 
as  to  what  it  is,  why  we  should  have 
it,  and  finally,  the  steps  to  gain  rever- 
ence in  our  Sacrament  Meetings. 

"Reverence,"  wrote  Ruskin,  "is  one 
of  the  signs  of  strength;  irreverence  one 
of  the  surest  indications  of  weakness. 
No  man  will  rise  high  who  jeers  at 
sacred  things." 

Not  long  ago  in  one  of  our  Sunday 
School  classes,  the  subject  was  discussed, 
and  the  conclusion  was  reached  that 
reverence  meant  to  respect  our  Heavenly 
Father.  The  most  beautiful  chapel  in 
the  Church  loses  its  beauty  and  its 
sacredness  if  reverence  is  not  found 
there.  I  believe  that  self-control  is  the 
basis  of  reverence.  I  have  heard  that 
Elder  George  Q.  Morris  taught  his  mis- 
sionaries perfect  reverence  when  they 
held  meetings  in  the  Sacred  Grove. 
Those  who  have  attended  these  meetings 
have  been  greatly  impressed  by  the  quiet 
attitude  of  several  hundred  missionaries 
in  that  Sacred  Grove,  and  as  soon  as 
the  Amen  of  the  benediction  had  been 
given,  these  elders  retired  without  con- 
versation or  the  shaking  of  hands  to 
the  outside  part  of  the  Grove. 

Could  we  not  perhaps  follow  this  fine 
example  in  our  Sacrament  Meetings? 

Brother  Asahel  D.  Woodruff  has  writ- 
ten beautifully  about  this  subject.  He 
said: 

"Reverent  behavior  does  not  develop 
by  chance,  neither  is  it  true  that  some 
people  are  just  naturally  reverent  and 
others  are  not.  Reverence  is  a  form  of 
behavior  which  is  learned.  It  is  a  mani- 
festation of  a  basic  respect  for  God,  no 
matter  where  the  person  may  be.  True 
reverence  is  a  sign  that  the  individual 
has  become  to  some  degree  personally 
acquainted  with  his  Heavenly  Father 
and  is  developing  that  knowledge  which 
Jesus  said  leads  to  eternal  life." 

The  Lord  has  told  us  himself  that 
we  should  be  reverent  in  his  Holy 
House.  In  Leviticus  19:30,  he  said: 

"Ye  shall  keep  my  sabbaths,  and  rev- 
erence my  sanctuary:  I  am  the  Lord." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

When  the  Master  lived  upon  the 
earth,  he  led  a  peaceful  life,  but  when 
he  saw  that  the  temple  was  defiled,  he 
"cast  out  all  them  that  sold  and 
bought  in  the  temple,  and  overthrew 
the  tables  of  the  moneychangers,  and 
the  seats  of  them  that  sold  doves,  and 
said  unto  them,  It  is  written,  My  house 
shall  be  called  the  house  of  prayer.  .  .  ." 
(Matt.  21:12-13.) 

I  believe  the  great  man  is  reverent. 
He  reverences  Deity;  he  reverences  all 
things  associated  with  Deity. 

I  believe  the  great  problem  that  is 
facing  the  world  today  is  a  lack  of  rev- 
erence toward  God,  His  Son,  and  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  should  like  to  mention  five  steps  to 
improve  reverence.  I  am  sure  there  are 
many  more.  But  we  have  observed  in 
our  ward  that  these  steps  are  helpful 
in  keeping  reverent  our  Sacrament  Meet- 
ings. 

Step  1:  As  members  of  the  Priesthood, 
brethren,  we  should  take  the  lead  in 
teaching  our  children  in  the  home,  rev- 
erence in  Sacrament  Meeting.  We 
should  teach  them  that  this  is  the  most 
important  meeting  of  the  Church  and 
that  they  should  meet  regularly.  The 
Lord  said  that  it  is  expedient  that  the 
Church  meet  together  often  to  partake 
of  the  bread  and  the  water  in  remem- 
brance of  the  Lord  Jesus.  If  the  youth 
and  all  of  us  remember  this,  the  great 
purpose  of  Sacrament  Meeting,  we  can- 
not help  but  be  reverent. 

As  parents  we  should  always  set  an 
example  to  our  children  of  proper  rev- 
erence. 

I  believe  that  we  should  teach  them 
to  be  prompt  in  attendance  at  their 
meetings;  to  be  tardy  in  an  appointment 
with  our  Heavenly  Father  is  not  rever- 
ent. 

Also  those  who  leave  their  meetings 
early  are  not  showing  the  respect  to  those 
who  preside  over  them  and  to  those 
who  speak  in  the  Sacrament  Meeting. 

Parents  must  be  on  time  to  their 
meetings  if  they  expect  their  children 
to  be  prompt. 

Step  2:  The  Priesthood  quorums  and 
auxiliary  organizations  should  contin- 
ually teach  reverence.  The  bishoprics 
of  wards  should  teach  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  the  sacredness  of  the  Sacra- 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  B.  WIRTHLIN 


77 


merit,  and  the  deacons  should  have  ade- 
quate supervision  before  and  during  the 
Sacrament  service. 

I  believe  that  the  leadership  of  wards 
should  not  tolerate  irreverence.  If  the 
youth  of  this  Church  understand  that  we 
insist  on  reverence  in  our  Sacrament 
Meetings,  they  will  respect  us  for  our 
stand.  We  can  be  kind  but  firm,  and 
this  attitude  will  command  respect. 

Step  3:  Our  Sacrament  Meetings 
should  be  well  planned  in  advance,  and 
the  details  pertaining  to  the  service  re- 
viewed carefully  before  the  service 
begins.  We  have  learned  in  our  ward 
that  if  we  plan  our  meetings  a  month 
in  advance,  and  then  check  up  on  the 
details  a  week  before,  and  then  again 
meet  forty-five  minutes  before  the  ap- 
pointed hour  to  make  sure  that  every 
detail  has  been  taken  care  of,  we  elim- 
inate confusion  before  the  service  and 
the  need  of  discussion  of  details  by  the 
bishopric  during  the  service. 

Step  4:  Proper  respect  and  care  of  the 
chapels  of  the  Church  and  showing 
concern  as  to  its  physical  condition  will 
indicate  to  the  youth  that  we  consider 
sacred  these  buildings.  In  this  respect, 
it  would  be  well  to  honor  our  custodians, 
publicly,  for  the  splendid  service  they 
render  in  keeping  our  chapels  clean  and 
in  good  repair.  This  would  add  to 
their  stature  and  thus  their  influence 
with  the  youth. 

Step  5:  We  have  encouraged  parents 
to  bring  their  children  to  Sacrament 
Meeting;  for  convenience,  however,  for 
the  parents,  nurseries,  or  mothers'  rooms 
could  be  provided  for  the  younger  chil- 
dren. We  have  found  in  our  ward 
enthusiastic  response  for  the  mothers 
themselves  to  supervise  these  nurseries. 
They  would  alternate  this  assignment 
which  would  come  from  a  member  of 
the  bishopric  on  a  weekly  basis.  The 
Relief  Society  could  do  much  to  en- 
courage our  young  mothers  in  this  re- 
spect. Inactive  parents  could  be  invited 
to  bring  their  families  and  these  mothers 
could  be  given  an  assignment  to  super- 
vise the  nursery,  also. 

I  believe  that  parents  are  responsible 
for  their  children,  for  the  behavior  of 
their  children.  Loud  talking,  running  up 


and  down  the  aisles,  or  any  other  dis- 
turbance, have  no  place  in  the  Sacra- 
ment Meeting.  This  behavior  should 
include  before,  during,  and  after  Sacra- 
ment Meeting. 

President  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  said 
on  May  20th  of  this  year:  "Achievement 
and  progress  cannot  be  created  for  our 
people.  They  can  only  be  created  by 
our  people.  Americans  would  have  it 
no  other  way.  Our  future  is  in  our 
hands.  Our  prospects  are  limited  only 
by  our  vision  and  by  our  exertions." 

And  we  as  a  Church,  if  we  are  to 
achieve  reverence,  must  do  it  ourselves. 
President  McKay  has  asked  for  it  so 
many  times.  We,  too,  must  create  it 
ourselves  by  effective  teaching  of  our 
children  and  proper  example  by  us  of 
the  Priesthood. 

When  God  called  Moses  out  of  the 
midst  of  the  bush,  he  said: 

"Draw  not  nigh  hither:  put  off  thy 
shoes  from  off  thy  feet,  for  the  place 
whereon  thou  standest  is  holy  ground." 
(Ex.  3:5.) 

As  we  enter  the  chapels  of  the  Church, 
do  we  not  stand  on  holy  ground?  The 
Lord  has  asked  us,  not  to  remove  our 
shoes,  but  he  has  asked  us  to  leave  the 
worldly  things  of  this  life  behind  us 
and  to  stand  on  spiritual  feet  as  we 
worship  our  Heavenly  Father  and  think 
of  the  Atoning  Sacrifice  made  by  the 
Savior  for  our  redemption. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  ever  inspire 
us  to  sense  our  great  responsibility  as 
bearers  of  his  Holy  Priesthood,  in  keep- 
ing reverence  in  our  Sacrament  Meetings, 
and  I  bear  you  my  testimony,  brethren, 
that  I  know  this  is  the  divine  Church 
that  has  been  restored  in  the  latter-days 
and  I  should  like  to  express  my  love  and 
my  loyalty  to  our  Prophet  and  to  all  the 
General  Authorities  who  are  sitting  be- 
fore us  tonight,  and  I  pray  this  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Bishop  Ste- 
phen C.  Richards  of  the  East  Mill  Creek 
Fourth  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  on 
the  same  subject. 


78 

Saturday,  October  11 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BISHOP  STEPHEN  C.  RICHARDS 


Second  Day 


of  the  East  Mill  Creek  Fourth  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake 


Thursday  afternoon,  after  President 
McKay  called  me  at  my  office  and  asked 
me  if  I  would  speak  to  you  brethren  on 
the  subject  of  reverence,  I  began  thinking 
about  it  and  asked  many  of  the  people 
whom  I  met  just  what  reverence  meant 
to  them. 

I  asked  a  sister  in  one  of  the  wards, 
and  she  said,  "Oh,  brother,  don't  ask 
me  about  reverence.  We  have  heard  so 
much  about  it  in  the  Church — it  is  be- 
ginning to  be  like  the  Word  of 
Wisdom." 

I  asked  a  Scout  and  I  reminded  him 
that  the  12th  law  of  the  Scout  Law  was 
that  a  Scout  is  reverent.  And  I  did  not 
receive  a  very  good  answer  from  him. 

Then  I  went  to  a  ward  teacher  and  I 
asked  him,  "How  about  reverence  in  the 
homes  which  you  visit?"  And  I  was 
sadly  disappointed  to  find  that  in  many 
homes  which  this  ward  teacher  visited, 
they  would  have  to  compete  against 
television  to  put  over  their  bishop's 
message,  to  put  over  the  message  which 
they  were  sent  out  into  the  homes  to 
give  to  the  people. 

Finally,  yesterday  afternoon,  while  I 
was  eating  lunch,  I  asked  the  little  wait- 
ress that  was  waiting  on  me,  "What 
does  reverence  mean  to  you?" 

And  she  said,  "Do  you  really  want  to 
know?' 

And  I  said,  "I  certainly  do." 

She  said,  "Reverence  means  to  me  to 
love  and  respect  God." 

I  was  disappointed  in  many  of  the 
statements  which  I  received  and  many 
of  the  feelings  which  the  people  had 
that  our  meetings,  the  Latter-day  Saint 
meetings  were  irreverent,  and  I  came 
to  the  conclusion,  three  conclusions,  if 
I  might: 

First,  that  reverence  begins  in  the 
home,  with  the  family,  and  with  the 
association  of  friends. 

Second,  that  reverence  is  fostered  and 
encouraged  and  promoted  in  the  Church 
and  especially  by  those  who  preside  over 
the  wards,  the  stakes,  and  the  Church 
itself. 

And  third,  that  the  individual  must 
have  a  desire  to  be  reverent,  to  increase 


his  testimony,  and  to  love  and  respect 
God. 

I  found  that  true  reverence  stems  from 
the  heart. 

I  would  like,  if  I  might,  just  to  take 
a  minute  or  two  and  further  these  three 
conclusions. 

Reverence  begins  in  the  home.  A  child 
learns  to  respect  and  revere  or  a  child 
learns  disrespect  from  his  parents.  A 
son  begins  to  mimic  his  father  and  a 
daughter  her  mother,  and  we  find  that 
in  those  homes  where  there  is  no  respect 
for  people,  those  children  come  to 
Church  with  no  respect  for  the  bishop 
or  for  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  found  in  my  own  home,  my  little 
three-and-a-half-year-old  daughter  did 
not  want  to  join  us  in  the  family  circle 
for  prayer,  and  so  she  would  sit  up  at 
the  table  and  wait  until  we  had  knelt  at 
our  chairs  and  had  our  family  prayer, 
and  then  she  would  begin  her  meal. 
This  went  on  for  several  months,  and 
we  tried  to  coax  her  down  on  her  knees 
to  join  with  us  in  family  prayer. 

Finally,  the  other  day,  without  any 
further  words  from  us,  and  it  had  been 
going  on  for  some  months,  by  herself 
she  got  down  on  her  knees  and  joined 
with  us  in  the  family  circle  in  family 
prayer. 

I  sincerely  believe  that  reverence  be- 
gins in  the  home.  I  am  very  thrilled 
with  the  song  which  the  Primary  teaches 
the  young  people  and  which  I  believe 
each  of  us  as  a  Priesthood-bearer  should 
learn  and  should  be  able  to  sing.  My 
little  three-and-a-half-year-old  daughter 
sings  it. 

"I  am  a  child  of  God 
And  he  has  sent  me  here, 
Has  given  me  an  earthly  home 
With  parents  kind  and  dear. 

"I  am  a  child  of  God 
And  so  my  needs  are  great. 
Help  me  to  understand  his  words 
Before  it  is  too  late. 

"I  am  a  child  of  God, 
Rich  blessings  are  in  store, 


BISHOP  STEPHEN  C.  RICHARDS 


79 


If  I  but  learn  to  do  his  will, 
I'll  live  with  him  once  more. 

"Lead  me,  guide  me,  walk  beside  me, 
Help  me  find  the  way. 
Teach  me  all  that  I  must  know 
To  live  with  him  some  day." 

Second,  I  found  that  reverence  is 
encouraged  and  fostered  in  our  churches, 
in  the  meeting  houses,  by  those  who 
preside  and  those  who  lead  the  member- 
ship of  the  wards. 

I  had  one  bishop  say  to  me,  "We  have 
a  hard  time,  bishop,  keeping  reverence 
in  our  ward.  We  have  so  many  young 
married  couples,  and  so  many  children, 
small  children.  We  just  cannot  get 
reverence  in  our  ward." 

He  also  mentioned  that  there  were 
two  wards  meeting  in  their  building. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  we,  the  East 
Mill  Creek  Fourth  Ward,  meet  with 
three  other  wards  in  a  small  chapel  that 
was  built  for  but  one  ward,  and  the 
stake  also  holds  their  meetings  in  the 
same  building.  It  can  be  done.  It  is 
a  matter  of  those  who  preside  over  us. 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  the  story  of 
one  bishop  in  a  ward  here  in  Salt  Lake 
County,  who  had  the  problem  of  talking 
during  the  Sacrament,  of  speaking  out, 
and  of  the  young  people  being  irrever- 
ent during  the  passing  of  the  Sacrament. 
So  he  with  his  counselors  decided  that 
they  should  present  it  to  the  membership 
of  the  ward,  and  they  said,  "Brothers 
and  sisters,  and  young  people,  whenever 
you  see  the  bishop  or  one  of  his  coun- 
selors talk  during  the  passing  of  the 
Sacrament,  then  all  of  vou  are  licensed 
to  go  ahead  and  talk.  Will  you  accept 
that  challenge?"  And  they  did. 

You  know,  everything  went  fine  until 
the  stake  presidency  and  the  high  coun- 
cil visited  this  ward  one  evening.  The 
first  counselor  was  presiding,  and  a 
member  of  the  stake  presidency  turned 
to  the  first  counselor  during  the  oassing 
of  the  Sacrament  and  said.  "Brother,  do 
you  have  a  Bible?"  And  the  first  coun- 
selor looked  out  over  the  audience,  and 
every  eye  was  on  him.  He  knew  that 
if  he  spoke  to  the  member  of  the  stake 
presidency,  that  he  licensed  everyone 
in  that  audience  to  begin  talking.  So  he 
paid  no  attention  to  what  had  been  said. 


And  the  second  time,  the  brother  said, 
"Brother,  do  you  have  a  Bible?",  a  little 
bit  louder  this  time,  and  a  third  time, 
and  each  time  he  looked  away,  and 
looked  over  at  the  bishop.  Then  this 
member  of  the  stake  presidency  turned 
to  the  bishop  to  say,  "Bishop,  do  you 
have  a  Bible?"  and  the  bishop  turned  his 
head.  They  got  through  the  Sacrament 
all  right,  and  the  bishop  got  up,  very 
happy,  and  praised  his  first  counselor 
and  then  he  explained  to  the  stake  pres- 
idency their  program  of  reverence. 

Brethren,  bishops,  counselors,  I  say 
that  you,  too,  in  your  ward  can  do  the 
same  thing.  Say  to  your  people,  "When 
you  see  us  talk  here  on  this  stand,  then 
you  go  ahead  and  talk.  If  we  do  not 
talk,  you  remain  quiet."  And  it  is  pretty 
hard  for  a  bishop  to  remain  quiet  when 
he  has  the  problems  of  conducting  the 
meeting,  but  it  can  be  done.  And  I  tell 
you,  you  will  increase  your  reverence, 
you  will  increase  the  wonderful  spirit 
of  your  meetings. 

I  like  the  inspired  poem  that  Edgar 
Guest  once  wrote: 

"I  would  rather  see  a  sermon 
Than  to  hear  one  any  day. 
I  would  rather  one  would  walk  with  me, 
Than  merely  tell  the  way. 

The  eye's  a  better  pupil 
And  more  willing  than  the  ear. 
Fine  counsel  is  confusing, 
But  example  always  clear. 

And  the  best  of  all  the  preachers 
Are  the  men  who  live  their  creeds, 
For  to  see  good  put  into  action 
Is  what  everybody  needs. 

I  soon  can  learn  to  do  it 
If  you  will  let  me  see  it  done. 
I  can  watch  your  hands  in  action 
But  your  tounge  too  fast  may  run. 

And  the  lecture  you  deliver 
May  be  very  wise  and  true, 
But  I  would  rather  get  my  lesson 
By  observing  what  you  do. 

For  I  might  misunderstand  you 
And  the  high  advice  you  give, 
But  there  is  no  misunderstanding 
How  you  act  and  how  you  live." 


80 

Saturday,  October  11 

Brethren,  I  see  that  my  time  has  gone. 
But  the  third  thing  that  I  would  like  to 
mention  is  that  reverence  must  be  a 
desire  in  the  heart  of  the  individual 
There  must  be  a  desire  to  be  reverent. 
It  must  come  from  within.  True  rever- 
ence begins  in  the  heart. 

I  clipped  a  small  article  from  the 
Readers'  Dieest,  had  it  printed  and  sent 
out  to  each  member  of  my  ward.  It  was 
simply  this,  an  old  Methodist  saying: 

"If  every  church  member  were  just 
like  me,  what  kind  of  a  church  would 
my  church  be." 

You,  too,  can  learn  something  from 
that  saying.  You,  too,  can  keep  that  in 
front  of  you  as  a  goal.  If  every  church 
member  were  just  like  you,  what  kind  of 
a  church  would  your  church  be. 

I  know  that  reverence  is  not  a  matter 
of  a  meeting  house.  I  held  meetings  in 
Germany  in  beer  halls.  I  swept  out  the 
beer  bottles  and  the  cigarette  stubs  and 
we  had  wonderful,  reverent  meetings.  I 
know  that  it  comes  from  the  member- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ship,  from  the  individuals,  and  I  know 
that  you  brethren,  you  who  are  the 
Priesthood  of  this  Church  and  who  pre- 
side over  the  members,  have  got  to  be 
the  leaders  and  have  got  to  show  the 
way  and  lead  the  way  to  reverence  in 
our  chapels  and  in  our  meetings.  It  can 
be  done.  It  is  being  done. 

I  challenge  you  bishops  and  you  coun- 
selors, accept  that  challenge  of  this  bish- 
op, who  said,  "Watch  me  and  do  as  I 
and  my  counselors  do."  Try  it,  you  will 
increase  your  reverence,  you  will  in- 
crease the  spirituality  of  your  member- 
ship. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  all.  I  leave 
my  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  this 
Gospel  with  you,  and  I  do  it,  humbly, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  be  privileged  to  hear 
from  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of 
the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren,  this  is  an  awesome  place 
to  occupy,  with  the  hope  and  the  prayer 
in  my  heart,  and  I  hope  in  yours,  you 
who  are  seen  and  you  who  are  unseen, 
but  listening,  that  what  I  shall  say,  and 
it  will  not  be  too  long,  will  be  of  some 
benefit  to  us. 

I  am  sure,  President  McKay  must  be 
heartened  and  pleased  by  the  report 
of  the  practical  measures  which  these 
two  bishops  have  taken  to  secure  rev- 
erence. I  am  sure  that  you  bishops 
who  are  here,  and  who  are  listening, 
will  find  in  these  two  very  able  reports 
from  these  two  young  bishops,  much 
food  for  thought  and  much  ground  for 
the  adoption  of  measures  that  will  bring 
the  reverence  that  President  McKay 
has  been  urging  for  years  and  the 
reverence  which  I  believe  our  Heavenly 
Father  expects  if  he  is  to  lend  to  us  his 
listening  ears,  when  we  pray  to  him. 

As  I  said  today,  there  is  a  royal  road 
from  here  to  our  Sovereign,  and  unlike 
any  other  sovereign  of  whom  we  know, 
by  some  means  of  which  we  do  not 


know,  our  petitions  reach  him  instantly. 
Whether  that  royal  road  be  open  to  our 
traffic  or  not  depends  entirely  upon  us. 

I  wanted  to  say  a  few  words,  if  I 
might,  and  I  will  be  as  brief  as  I  can, 
because  I  know  you  are  waiting  to  listen 
to  the  others  who  will  speak  here  to- 
night, about  the  Priesthood.  I  am  not 
going  to  undertake  to  define  it.  I  will 
regard  it  as  the  power  of  God  delegated 
to  those  whom  he  chooses  directly  or 
through  his  regularly  ordained  servants. 
It  is  a  part  of  his  power  which  each 
and  every  of  you  has,  for  the  offices 
and  for  the  work  which  is  entrusted  to 
those  who  occupy  the  offices  which  we 
hold. 

As  I  see  the  work  of  the  Church,  I 
will  divide  it  for  my  purposes,  tonight, 
into  three  parts:  First,  there  is  the  obli- 
gation resting  on  all  the  Priesthood  to 
keep  the  home  fires  burning.  By  which 
I  mean,  as  you  will  guess,  the  obligation 
to  keep  the  Church  going. 

Secondly,  and  depending  upon  the 
efficacy  of  the  first,  is  the  obligation 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


81 


to  spread  the  Gospel  among  the  living 
and  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth. 

Thirdly,  the  obligation  upon  us  to  see 
to  it  that  those  who  have  gone  before, 
without  opportunity  to  hear  and  em- 
brace the  Gospel,  have  their  work 
vicariously  done  for  them  and  for  this 
work  you  in  your  home  capacity  are 
responsibile. 

But  I  want  to  say  more  particularly, 
something  about  this  home-work  which 
we  have.  You  know,  this  Church  was 
badly  driven  in  its  early  days.  The  third 
field,  work  for  the  dead  was  not  known 
in  the  earliest  days.  They  began  the  work 
of  the  second  field  and  carried  it  on 
from  the  first,  but  it  was  hampered  and 
more  or  less  delayed  by  the  mobbings 
and  the  drivings  and  the  other  indig- 
nities and  persecutions  which  were 
heaped  upon  the  early  Church. 

We  began  in  New  York,  we  went  to 
Ohio,  we  went  to  Missouri,  we  came 
back  to  Illinois,  and  then  we  came  West. 
And  apparently  we  seemed  to  think  that 
when  we  got  West,  we  should  be  free 
from  persecution.  Such  was  not  the 
fact. 

But  in  the  midst  of  our  wanderings — 
shall  I  say — in  the  East,  during  the 
time  that  the  majority  of  the  Saints 
were  in  Missouri,  grievous  and  terrible 
persecution  came  upon  us.  We  read  of 
the  persecution  of  the  early  Christians. 
Those  persecutions  in  the  time  of  Rome 
were  far  more  dramatic  than  those 
which  we  suffered,  but  in  considerable 
part  they  were  different  and  did  not 
involve  the  humiliation  and  degradation 
of  families  in  the  way  in  which  our 
persecutions  involved  them. 

In  the  midst  of  all  this,  in  Missouri, 
they  arrested,  on  charges  that  apparently 
involved  the  death  penalty,  Joseph  and 
Hyrum,  Alexander  McRae,  Lyman 
Wight,  Caleb  Baldwin,  and  Sidney 
Rigdon.  For  some  reason  that  I  have 
not  been  able,  in  my  casual  search, 
to  learn,  Sidney  Rigdon  was  released, 
leaving  the  five  men  there.  I  will  not 
go  through  that.  Four  and  a  half 
months,  as  nearly  as  I  can  count,  they 
were  in  Liberty  Jail,  and  during  the 
time  they  were  in  Liberty  Jail,  the 
Prophet  wrote  a  great  epistle  and  cer- 
tain parts  of  that,  epistle  have  been 


taken  out  and  placed  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  as  revelations,  as  they 
were,  glorious  in  their  language,  in  their 
principle,  and  in  their  instructions. 

Out  of  that  Missouri  situation  arose 
among  some  of  the  Saints,  not  many, 
but  some  of  the  Saints  a  feeling  of 
vengeance  and  revenge  that  resulted  in 
one  of  the  incidents  of  our  history  that 
we  wish  we  did  not  have  to  try  to  for- 
get. But  there  were  reasons. 

You  know,  I  have  been  in  Liberty 
Jail.  There  is  not  much  left  there  of 
what  was  there  at  the  time  the  Prophet 
and  his  associates  were  there,  but  there 
is  something.  And  for  a  long  time  the 
Authorities  have  been  talking  about 
restoring  that  Liberty  Jail,  or  erecting 
there  some  kind  of  a  memorial  building. 
I  have  my  own  ideas  about  that  but  I 
will  not  present  them. 

But  these  revelations,  these  great  out- 
pourings of  wisdom  and  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  came  at  a  time  when  the  Church 
was  struggling  for  existence.  They  were 
threatening  to  exterminate  us  in  Mis- 
souri. They  were  threatening  to  kill  our 
leaders.  The  great  concern  at  that  time 
was  the  keeping  of  what  I  have  termed 
the  home  fires  burning.  They  were  still 
going,  or  had  already  begun  and  were 
still  going  on  converting  people,  trying 
to  carry  out  going  into  all  the  world  and 
all  the  rest.  But  they  were  having  their 
troubles. 

I  have  been  just  a  little  bit  disap- 
pointed in  noting  that  some  of  our 
historians  are  rather  inclined  to  excuse 
or  to  explain  the  burnings,  the  robbings, 
the  plunderings,  the  rapings,  and  all  the 
rest.  Personally,  I  have  no  desire  to 
forget  all  those  things — not  that  I  want 
to  cherish  them  and  build  hate  in  my 
heart,  but  I  do  want  to  have  some  un- 
derstanding of  what  our  forefathers 
went  through  in  order  that  we  might 
come  here.  And  I  recommend  to  you 
that  you  read  the  last  chapters  of  Vol- 
ume I,  I  think  it  is,  of  Roberts'  Com- 
prehensive History  of  the  Church,  in 
which  he  sums  up  what  happened  in 
Missouri  after  they  had  gotten  rid  of  us. 
It  is  an  amazing  story,  and  I  assume 
accurate. 

While  the  brethren  were  in  prison, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Hyrum  and  the 
rest,  the  Saints  were  led  from  Missouri 


82 

Saturday,  October  11 

to  Illinois.  Brigham  Young  led  them. 
He  tried  to  get  Bishop  Partridge  to  take 
out,  provide  for  the  getting  out  of  Mis- 
souri, of  the  poor  but  Bishop  Partridge 
did  not  and  would  not  take  on  the 
work,  so  Brother  Brigham  had  to  do  it 
himself.  That  was  a  great  experience, 
one  that  every  descendant,  literally  or 
spiritually,  and  all  of  us  come  in  the 
latter  group,  should  find  a  demonstra- 
tion, a  proof,  of  the  great  faith  which 
those  stalwarts  had. 

Now,  I  want  to  read,  in  conclusion, 
a  few  verses  from  Section  121,  in  which 
the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
talks  to  all  of  us,  not  to  those  engaged 
just  in  missionary  work,  nor  to  those 
engaged  in  vicarious  work  for  the  dead, 
but  to  them  and  to  all  of  us,  also.  I 
may  stop  here  and  there  and  say  a  word, 
but  not  much. 

These  are  commandments,  as  I  read 
them,  to  us  for  our  daily  conduct. 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but 
few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they  not 
chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much 
upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they 
do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — " 

— That  hits  some  of  us. 

"That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are 
inseparably  connected  with  the  powers 
of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven 
cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled  only 
upon  the  principles  of  righteousness." 

— You  bearers  of  the  Priesthood  have 
there  a  rule  as  to  your  own  conduct. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon 
us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride, 
our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  control 
or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the 
souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the 
heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is 
withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or 
the  authority  of  that  man." 

— Very  strong  language — not  mine, 
but  the  Prophet's  through  revelation! 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left 
unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight 
against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience 
that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a 
little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  un- 
righteous dominion." 

— He  had  just  told  us  what  happens 
to  those  who  exercise  unrighteous  do- 
minion and  then  he  repeats  what  he 
had  said  above — 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are 
chosen. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood, only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suf- 
fering, by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and 
by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — " 

— And  the  following  verse  contains 
what  might  be  one  of  the  greatest  tests 
of  what  we  can  do  and  how  we  feel. 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness, 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
.  . ."  — and  now  note —  "and  then  show- 
ing forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love 
toward  him  whom  thou  hast  reproved, 
lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; .  . ." 

— And  in  carrying  forward  that,  the 
escape  from  hypocrisy  and  believed 
hypocrisy  can  be  very,  very  doubtful, 
we  must  exercise  what  is  called  for 
there,  with  greatest  care  and  discretion 
and  without  any  hypocrisy. — 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faith- 
fulness is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity 
towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 
of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy 
thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence 
of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the 
dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 
stant companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and 
truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  com- 
pulsory means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever." 

I  conceive  these  to  be  the  rules  by 
which  we  bearers  of  the  Priesthood  shall 
conduct  ourselves. 

Recently  a  letter  came  before  me  writ- 
ten to  be  signed  by  the  Presidency,  and 
it  gave  direction  such  as  would  be  given 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


83 


in  a  letter  written  with  reference  to  the 
ordering  of  goods,  or  something  of  that 
sort. 

Brethren,  be  careful,  be  prayerful,  be 
wise,  when  you  undertake  to  make  your 
reproof,  when  you  undertake  to  direct 
men  who  have  nothing  but  their  love  of 
the  Gospel  and  their  respect  of  you  to 
impel  them  to  obey  you. 

Be  careful  of  their  feelings.  Speak 
kindly  and  in  such  a  way  that  there 
never  will  be  any  question  as  to  your 
love  for  them  and  your  desire  merely  to 
be  helpful. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel.  I  bear  my  testimony  that 
I  do  have  a  testimony  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  there  is  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  bear  my  testimony  that 
the  Gospel  and  the  Priesthood  were  re- 
stored through  the  instrumentality  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  those  associated  with 
him.  I  bear  my  testimony  that  the  same 
authority  which  was  given  to  him  has 
come  down  to  us  through  all  of  the 
Presidents  since  the  time  of  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  it  is  possessed  now  by 
President  McKay,  who  I  know  strives 
to  carry  out  these  commandments  of  the 


Lord  regarding  the  Priesthood  and  the 
exercise  of  its  powers  as  the  Lord  has 
commanded. 

May  God  be  with  us  always  and  help 
us  to  do  all  we  need  to  do  in  order  to 
make  the  home  Church  strong  and  vig- 
orous, that  we  may  be  able  to  cover  the 
other  fields,  spreading  the  Gospel  among 
the  living,  and  by  vicarious  work  among 
the  dead,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

With  Brother  Condie  leading  us,  the 
congregation  will  now  join  with  the 
Male  Chorus  of  the  Choir  in  singing, 
"Do  What  Is  Right." 


The  congregation  and  the  Men's 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is 
Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren,  in  some  respects 
I  regard  this  great  meeting  as  of  fore- 
most importance  in  our  Conference. 
When  I  contemplate  standing  in  the 
presence  of  the  ten  thousand  who  occupy 
this  building  and  its  environs,  plus  the 
many  more  thousands  of  the  Priesthood 
gathered  in  the  Church  edifices  all 
across  the  country,  I  am  overawed  with 
the  responsibility  of  taking  even  this 
small  part  of  your  time.  I  think,  if  I 
know  my  own  heart  and  mind,  that 
there  is  nothing  that  I  prize  higher  than 
the  Holy  Priesthood  which  has  come 
to  me,  and  I  gather,  if  you  search  your 
own  hearts,  that  throughout  these  many 
meeting  places  where  the  Priesthood  are 
assembled  tonight,  that  that  same  feeling 
of  appreciation  exists  with  you.  We 
all  hope  and  pray  that  we  may  so  mag- 
nify this  marvelous  power  and  influence 
which  has  come  into  our  lives  that  we 
may  be  worthy  of  it,  and  that  it  may 


perform  for  us  the  high  purposes  for 
which  it  was  given  to  our  Father's 
children. 

Now,  without  taking  too  much  time 
tonight,  I  wish  to  repeat,  and  I  hope 
repetition  is  not  too  serious  an  offense, 
something  about  two  matters  that  I  have 
brought  to  your  attention  on  previous 
occasions.  I  think  it  was  two  and  a  half 
years  ago  this  Conference  that  I  took  the 
liberty  of  bringing  to  you  something 
from  an  eminent  judge  which  I  thought 
might  operate  to  some  extent  to  save 
life  on  the  highways.  I  remember  telling 
you  at  that  time  that  whenever  I  ob- 
served the  report  of  an  accident  on  the 
highway  in  our  area,  I  was  always  care- 
ful to  look  up  the  notice — often  the 
funeral  notice — to  find  out  whether  the 
person  who  had  met  with  the  tragic 
accident  was  a  member  of  our  Church, 
and  one  holding  the  Priesthood.  In  our 
own  area  I  was  surprised  to  find  such 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


84 

Saturday,  October  11 

a  large  proportion  of  all  of  the  accidents 
involving  fatalities  among  our  own 
people. 

I  always  felt — whenever  I  found  that 
out — that  I  had  lost  a  fellow  member 
of  the  Priesthood  or  a  sister  in  the 
Church  unnecessarily,  and  in  most  cases 
I  think  that  thought  is  justified  because 
we  learn  that  much  of  the  frightful  ac- 
cident rate  is  due  to  some  kind  of  care- 
lessness. 

I  recall  giving  that  address  two  and 
a  half  years  ago,  and  I  received  a  letter 
just  the  other  day  dated  October  3, 
1958.  I  will  not  disclose  the  name  of 
the  writer  now  because  I  have  not  asked 
his  permission,  but  I  think  he  would 
readily  grant  it.  He  says  to  me: 

"I  am  writing  this  letter  to  thank  you 
for  bringing  me  to  my  senses  in  my 
responsibility  in  obeying  the  laws  of  the 
highway.  Two  years  ago  last  April  con- 
ference I  invited  my  bishopric  [and  this 
is  from  a  bishop]  to  go  to  conference 
with  me.  I  wanted  to  show  them  just 
how  easily  we  could  be  in  Salt  Lake 
[he  comes  from  a  distance]  for  the  first 
session  in  my  new  car.  I  didn't  think 
we  were  moving  if  we  slowed  up  to  the 
speed  limit,  it  was  early  in  the  morning 
and  very  few  cars  on  the  highway  so 
I  thought  it  smart  to  go  80  and  90  miles 
an  hour. 

"I  attended  the  Saturday  night  priest- 
hood meeting  and  heard  you  talk  on 
speed  demons,  and  I  wondered  how  you 
had  found  out  about  my  fast  driving  so 
soon.  I  felt  you  were  talking  right  to 
me  but  I  found  out  after  the  meeting 
there  were  a  lot  of  ears  burning.  When 
you  said  it  was  just  as  bad  to  break  the 
laws  of  the  land  as  it  was  the  laws  of 
God  [I  looked  it  up  and  I  did  not  say 
that,  but  have  no  objection  to  it]  and 
when  we  break  the  speed  laws  we  are 
on  the  devil's  side  of  the  line  and  the 
Lord  is  not  bound  to  answer  our  prayers 
for  safety  if  we  deliberately  break  the 
law,  encouraging  every  judge  to  throw 
the  book  at  the  first  offender,  it  really 
struck  home  to  me. 

"I  can  truthfully  say,  since  then,  I 
have  never  deliberately  broken  a  traffic 
law,  knowingly,  except  our  20  mile  speed 
limit  in  our  town,  and  the  last  few 
months  I  have  obeyed  this.  I  have  a 
family  of  six  children  and  before  last 


Second  Day 

April  they  were  always  saying,  'faster 
Dad,  faster,'  and  Dad  went  faster.  Now 
they  watch  that  speedometer  and  if  it 
even  gets  close  to  the  speed  limit  they 
warn  me.  My  boy's  ticket  to  take  the  car 
is  to  obey  all  traffic  laws  and  we  have  a 
father  and  son  agreement  that  we  will 
not  break  them. 

"A  year  ago  I  asked  my  bishopric  to 
raise  their  hand  in  support  of  our  high- 
way laws,  this  they  have  done.  About 
a  month  ago  I  wrote  a  pledge  and  asked 
the  priesthood  quorums  to  sign.  They 
responded  wonderfully  well.  Six  out  of 
ten  of  my  priests  have  signed  a  similar 
pledge,  two  of  them  are  away  and  the 
other  two  have  not  been  contacted.  The 
teachers  quorums  are  all  willing  to  sign 
to  help  stop  the  slaughter  on  our  high- 
ways. Two  of  our  town's  seventeen- 
year-old  high  school  boys  lie  in  the 
hospital  now,  not  expected  to  live  due  to 
the  fact  that  they  were  traveling  100 
miles  an  hour  at  night  and  missed  a 
curve.  I  am  on  the  City  Council  so  I 
asked  the  City  Officials  if  they  would 
set  an  example  and  sign,  and  100  per- 
cent signed  the  pledge.  Many  of  our 
Rotary  Club  members  have  signed  and 
they  want  to  have  500  copies  made  and 
send  them  to  clubs  all  over  the  world 
with  a  challenge  to  them  to  do  the 
same.  I  had  photostatic  copies  made  of 
each  of  the  pledges  that  were  being 
signed.  I  am  sending  you  a  copy  of  each 
of  the  pledges  of  the  quorums  and  also 
the  city  officials,  and  I  dare  say  there 
are  very  few  city  officials  that  would 
sign  a  pledge  of  this  kind."  (Because 
he  put  in  the  pledge  to  his  City  Council 
to  abstain  from  all  intoxicating  bever- 
ages whether  driving  or  not.  But  they 
signed  it.) 

"I  want  to  thank  you  again  for  set- 
ting me  straight  because  I  feel  sure  it 
has  saved  me  and  my  family  from  acci- 
dent. It  is  teaching  us  to  better  obey 
all  laws  and  has  helped  me  to  repent." 

Now  I  do  not  read  that  letter  because 
it  flatters  me,  but  because  I  think  he 
has  hit  upon  a  constructive  thing.  I 
gather  that  he  has  pledges  from  more 
than  200,  I  should  say,  that  they  will 
rigorously  obey  every  traffic  law,  and 
he  got  all  of  his  own  quorums  to  sign 
the  pledge  that  they  would  never  drink 
at  all  and  of  course  it  was  the  under- 


PRESIDENT  STEP 

standing  none  would  drink  when  driv- 
ing. So,  this  bishop  has  done  something 
about  the  problem,  and  I  thank  him  for 
sending  me  this  letter  because  it  seems 
to  me  it  makes  a  suggestion  that  we 
might  follow  in  many  quarters,  and  re- 
duce this  great  tragedy  on  the  highway. 
I  solicit  your  help  in  this  regard. 

The  other  matter  which  I  want  to  refer 
to,  and  which  I  mentioned  once  before 
in  the  Priesthood  meeting,  relates  to 
gambling.  I  notice  in  the  issue  of  the 
Saturday  Evening  Post  under  date  of 
August  23,  1958  an  article  entitled:  "I 
Was  a  Compulsive  Gambler."  It  is  a 
long  article,  and  I  do  not  propose  to 
read  it,  but  it  says  in  the  heading:  "For 
ten  wretched  years  the  author  lived  on 
the  edge  of  ruin.  He  tells  anonymously 
how  he  became  a  gambling  addict,  and 
how  he  finally  licked  the  'tiger  on  his 
back.'"  I  will  just  read  the  first  para- 
graph. 

"Drug  addicts  say  they  have  monkeys 
on  their  backs.  For  ten  years  I  had  a 
tiger  on  mine.  I  was  a  gambling  addict. 
During  that  time,  out  of  an  income  that 
varied  between  $5000  and  $10,000  a 
year,  I  lost  more  than  $25,000  in  bets. 
At  that,  I  was  lucky.  Time  and  again, 
driven  by  the  gambling  fever,  I  risked 
public  disgrace,  even  jail." 

Then  he  goes  on  to  show  how,  during 
these  sad  ten  years  of  his  life,  he  had 
yielded  to  the  gambling  instinct  to  such 
a  point  that  he  just  simply  ruined  his 
life  for  himself  and  his  family  and  came 
nearly  landing  in  jail  because  of  issuing 
checks  without  funds  and  doing  other 
illegitimate  things.  If  you  have  the 
magazine  handy,  I  think  you  would  do 
well  to  read  the  article,  and  I  think 
when  you  read  it  none  of  you  would 
ever  want  to  subject  either  himself  or 
any  of  his  family  or  friends  to  the  pos- 
sibility of  becoming  a  gambling  addict. 

I  have  had  a  little  opportunity  to 
watch  business  for  a  good  many  years, 
and  in  my  time  I  have  seen  a  good  many 
tragedies.  I  have  seen  fine  young  men 
with  high  promise  for  the  future  yield 
to  the  temptation  to  pay  their  gambling 
debts  by  stealing  money, — some  of  our 
own  boys,  who  may  still  be  in  Leaven- 
worth Prison  after  20  years.  I  have  never 
heard  whether  all  of  these  boys  got  out. 
Our  Brethren  know  something  about  it. 


EN  L  RICHARDS  85 

I  have  known  prominent  men  of  this 
city  with  brilliant  futures  who  have 
yielded  to  this  gambling  instinct  and  lost 
every  prospect  they  had,  lost  the  respect 
of  all  who  knew  them,  and  have  died  in 
disgrace.  It  is  a  dangerous  thing.  As 
this  author  points  out,  it  gets  into  the 
very  blood  of  people,  and  so  I  have  no 
hesitance  in  advising  my  brethren  to 
stay  clear  of  it,  and  I  go  so  far  as  to 
urge  no  one  to  begin  even  on  the  small- 
est basis.  After  my  experience  I  have 
reached  the  point  where  I  hate  to  see 
a  youth,  or  even  a  man,  put  a  nickel  in 
a  slot  machine  because  I  do  not  know 
where  it  will  lead. 

Now,  there  are  a  good  many  who  will 
try  to  defend  gambling.  I  have  heard 
people  say  that  all  business  is  a  gamble, 
that  even  life  is  a  gamble.  The  latter 
statement  is  absolutely  false  to  anyone 
who  knows  anything  about  life.  There 
is  no  gamble  about  life,  as  everyone  of 
you  know.  You  know  that  it  is  all 
planned  from  the  very  beginning,  and 
while  we  cannot  foresee  all  the  circum- 
stances that  will  transpire,  we  know 
what  life  is.  We  know  the  course  that 
life  should  take.  We  know  its  rewards 
and  we  know  its  penalties  for  infractions 
of  the  law.  Life  is  not  a  gamble,  and  it 
is  a  mistake  to  say  that  business  is  a 
gamble.  Anybody  who  understands  the 
fundamentals  of  good  business  knows 
that  it  is  not  a  gamble.  Every  legitimate 
business  contemplates  an  exchange  of 
values.  One  thing  of  value,  services, 
for  another  thing  of  value,  money  or 
some  other  thing.  All  sound  business 
is  based  solely  on  that  principle — an 
exchange  of  values. 

That  is  not  true  of  gambling — abso- 
lutely not.  That  is  an  effort  to  secure 
either  something  for  nothing,  or  much 
more  than  what  is  invested  in  the  gam- 
bling, and  this  man  whose  article  I 
quoted  tells  about  gambling  machines, 
and  how  if  one  were  inclined  to  bet  on 
chances  he  has  no  chance  in  winning 
against  these  devices  in  the  long  run. 
But  it  is  the  morality  of  it,  my  brethren, 
that  I  so  much  deplore  because  it  puts 
men  and  women  (and  unfortunately 
there  are  many  women  who  indulge) 
in  a  position  where  they  are  unable  to 
appraise  the  sound  values  in  life  and  in 
business,  and  it  leads  them  on  and  on, 


86 

Saturday,  October  11 

like  one  who  takes  his  first  drink,  until 
they  may  end  up  as  alcoholics,  or  they 
may  end  up  as  gambling  addicts,  as  this 
man  calls  them — compulsive  gamblers. 
He  could  not  stop,  he  could  not  get  away 
from  it.  I  hope  you  are  sympathetic 
with  that  position  because  I  know  from 
long  experience  that  it  is  the  wise  thing 
to  do  never  to  bet,  but  keep  on  the 
safe  side  and  never  trust  your  powers 
of  resistance  with  the  wrong  thing.  You 
would  not  with  many  other  things,  why 
trust  yourself  with  this  nefarious  habit? 

Now,  brethren,  I  will  not  take  more 
of  your  time,  but  at  the  risk  of  repetition, 
I  wanted  to  mention  those  two  items 
again  to  you  tonight.  It  is  a  tremendous 
responsibility  to  bear  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood. I  wish  all  of  you — perhaps  all 
did  not — had  heard  what  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  told  us  yesterday, 
something  I  have  long  believed,  and  I 
was  glad  to  have  sanction  for  my  belief. 
He  said  in  substance  that  there  will  be 
no  Sons  of  Perdition  who  do  not  hold 
the  Priesthood.  I  have  believed  that  for 
years  because  I  do  not  think  that  the 
Lord  in  his  mercy  would  ever  condemn 
a  man  to  that  indescribable  penalty  of 
being  put  out  entirely  from  the  Kingdom 
and  from  all  grace  unless  that  man 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  unless 
he  knew  the  power  of  the  Christ,  and 
he  could  only  know  that,  I  think,  by 
holding  the  Priesthood.  I  believe  that 
in  the  main  that  can  be  said  to  be  true 
— that  only  men  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood of  God  stand  in  danger  of  that 
terrible  penalty  of  being  classed  as  out- 
casts. 

On  the  other  hand,  only  men  who 
hold  the  Priesthood  can  aspire  to  the 
highest  things  of  life,  and  that  is  the 
balance — to  use  this  Priesthood  to  reach 
exaltation  in  the  Eternal  Presence  or  to 
abuse  it  and  lose  it  and  be  cast  out. 
I  think  that  is  a  solemn  thought  for  all 
of  us,  and  I  trust  that  as  we  ponder  it 
we  shall  all  decide,  as  I  have  reason 
to  believe  we  will,  that  we  will  aspire 
to  the  highest  ideals,  to  the  loftiest  sta- 
tions attainable  with  this  holy  power 
that  God  has  given  to  us.  If  we  aspire 
to  attain  that  exaltation,  work  for  it 
consciously,  serve  faithfully,  keeping 
the  commandments,  our  rewards  will 
exceed  even  our  fondest  expectations. 
Of  that  I  am  convinced. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren, 
and  be  with  you  always,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


When  this  vast  congregation  responded 
to  Brother  Condie's  baton  on  the  first 
note  of  "Do  What  Is  Right,"  I  was 
thrilled.  The  strength  of  your  voices 
expressed  a  spirit  which  is  sublime,  and 
strangely  enough,  I  was  reminded  of  a 
statement  that  a  leading  businessman  in 
the  United  States  made  to  me  on  the 
plane  that  carried  us  to  South  Africa  a 
few  years  ago.  There  were  three  busi- 
nessmen— one  who  was  president  of  the 
Board  of  a  mining  company  there  on 
the  Coast  of  Africa;  another  who  was  a 
member  of  the  Board  going  down  to  a 
Board  meeting;  and  this  gentleman  who 
was  head  of  a  national  Drug  Store  chain. 

When  he  found  out  we  are  Mormons, 
he  said,  "Whenever  I  can  find  a  young 
Mormon  boy  to  take  charge  of  running 
our  drug  stores,  I  tell  my  men  to  give 
him  a  position.  I  have  many  of  them 


in  my  employ."  He  has  found  integ- 
rity in  them.  I  thought  I  felt  the 
strength  and  source  of  that  integrity 
tonight. 

I  thought  when  the  gentleman  made 
that  statement,  that  any  young  member 
of  this  Church  who  gets  a  position  in 
that  chain  of  stores  may  cast  a  reflection 
upon  the  entire  body  if  he  failed  in 
upholding  the  standard  of  the  Church. 
That  is  what  he  would  do.  Whenever 
anyone,  any  husband  in  this  Church, 
treats  his  wife  unfairly,  or  stoops  so 
low  as  to  strike  her,  as  I  heard  only 
recently  a  man  did,  he  disgraces  his 
Priesthood,  casts  reflection  upon  the 
whole  Church.  That  would  be  true  if 
he  were  only  a  member,  but  if  he  holds 
a  prominent  position  in  the  Church, 
as  this  man  does,  he  disgraces  his  Priest- 
hood, and  proves  himself  untrue  to  his 


PRESIDENT  DA 

fellows.  He  disgraces  his  quorum,  and 
proves  himself  unworthy  of  membership 
in  it. 

It  is  an  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  body 
in  the  Tabernacle,  and  to  realize  that 
assembled  in  139  other  houses  there 
are  members  of  the  Priesthood,  from 
the  high  priests  to  the  deacons,  meeting 
tonight  and  feeling  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood. 

One  principle  emphasizes  itself  in  my 
mind  tonight,  and  that  is  the  virtue  of 
self-control.  When  a  man  accepts  the 
Priesthood,  he  accepts  the  obligation  of 
controlling  himself  under  any  circum- 
stances. That  is  the  first  lesson  that  the 
Savior  gave  to  us  after  his  baptism — the 
power  of  resistance.  Arising  from  the 
plain  through  which  the  Jordan  River 
flows  into  the  Dead  Sea,  near  the  spot 
of  Christ's  baptism,  there  is  a  precipi- 
tous cliff  called  the  Mount  of  Tempta- 
tion. People  point  to  it  and  say,  "It 
is  on  that  Mount  that  Jesus  went  after 
he  was  baptized  in  the  River  Jordan." 

Those  three  temptations  which  were 
given  to  Him  are  given  to  us.  The  first 
was  an  appeal  to  his  appetite  after  40 
days  of  fasting,  which  temptation  is 
really  an  appeal  to  the  appetite.  Second, 
an  appeal  to  his  vanity.  'Cast  thyself 
down.  I  dare  you  this;  and  I  dare  you 
that.'  And  third,  'the  kingdoms  of  the 
world  and  all  the  wealth  thereof  will 
be  yours  if  you  follow  me.'  When 
Satan  reached  that  point  he  was  not 
challenging,  he  was  pleading.  'AH 
these  I  will  give  thee  if  thou  wilt  bow 
down  and  worship  me.' 

As  Christ  resisted  the  temptation  of 
appetite,  of  passion;  as  he  resisted  the 
appeal  to  his  vanity  and  pride,  he  grew 
in  power.  I  had  better  put  it  this  way: 
that  Satan's  bombastic  attitude,  his  chal- 
lenging attitude,  "If  thou  be  the  Son 
of  God,"  is  changed  to  one  of  pleading, 
and  when  Christ  said,  'Get  thee  behind 
me  Satan,  for  it  is  written  thou  shalt 
worship  the  Lord  thy  God  and  him 
only  shalt  thou  serve,'  we  glimpse  what 
it  means  to  be  the  victor  over  temptation, 
and  we  understand  also  how  temptation 
loses  its  power  and  leaves  us.  As  Satan 
slunk  away,  angels  came  and  admin- 
istered to  Christ. 

Well,  the  temptations  come  to  every 


ID  O.  McKAY  87 

man  who  holds  the  Priesthood.  One 
of  the  bishops  who  spoke  to  us  tonight 
referred  to  the  relationship  of  self- 
control,  self-mastery,  and  reverence. 
That  is  one  of  the  great  lessons  in  this 
matter  of  reverence.  Both  bishops,  who 
gave  us  some  excellent  suggestions,  and 
whom  I  thank  at  this  time,  referred  to 
the  necessity  of  reverence  in  the  home, 
control  of  presiding  authority  in  con- 
ducting meetings,  controlling  their  own 
tongues.  I  know  of  no  attribute,  no 
quality,  more  conducive  to  peace  in  the 
home  than  self-control.  If  the  husband 
sees  something  in  the  wife  about  which 
he  could  find  fault,  it  would  be  better 
for  him  to  say  nothing,  to  control  his 
tongue.  That  is  an  excellent  thing  to 
do,  say  nothing  about  it.  And  if  the  wife 
would  practice  that  same  thing,  how 
many  disputations  and  quarrels  would 
be  stopped,  quenched  at  their  beginning. 

Parents  who  suddenly  become  angered 
or  hurt  or  injured  at  some  act  of  a  child 
innocently  committed  might  hurt  the 
child's  feelings.  Parents  should  manage 
to  exert  control  of  themselves,  control 
of  their  hands,  control  their  tongues 
particularly,  then  the  child's  feelings 
would  not  be  hurt. 

Every  Sunday  when  we  partake  of  the 
Sacrament  we  covenant  that  we  will  do 
just  this  one  thing  at  least,  wherever 
we  are.  Read  what  James  says  about 
controlling  the  tongue,  an  unruly  mem- 
ber, and  you  will  see  that  this  is  one 
of  the  fundamental  principles.  We  cove- 
nant on  that  Sunday  that  we  will  take 
upon  us  the  name  of  the  Son,  we  wit- 
ness that  we  will  do  it.  It  takes  some 
control  to  keep  that  promise.  We  wit- 
ness that  we  will  always  remember  him. 

We  should  be  always  dignified,  self- 
possessed.  When  Pilate  said,  "Behold 
the  man,"  he  asked  all  to  behold  the 
perfect  man.  He  was  just  that.  We 
covenant  that  we  will  keep  the  com- 
mandments which  he  has  given  us.  One 
reason  why  nonmembers,  disbelievers  in 
Christianity  and  in  religion,  so  express 
themselves  against  it  is  because  of  the 
inconsistency  between  the  Christian  who 
pretends  to  do  these  things,  and  then  in 
business  affairs  and  in  his  home  life 
he  does  just  the  opposite,  and  I  apply  to 
him  that  terrible  title,  "hypocrite,"  a 
sin  condemned  more  vehemently  by  the 


88 

Saturday,  October  11 

Savior  than  any  other  excepting  the 
great  sins  of  adultery  and  murder. 

I  plead  with  the  members  of  the 
Priesthood  throughout  the  Church  to 
practice  self-mastery.  That  applies  to 
prospective  missionaries  and  to  mission- 
aries who  are  in  the  field.  Be  master 
of  yourselves,  master  of  your  appetites, 
master  of  your  passions.  Husbands, 
wives,  be  as  a  light  set  upon  a  hill,  that 
men  seeing  your  good  deeds  and  your 
good  lives  will  glorify  our  Father  in 
Heaven. 

What  was  it  that  made  the  president 
of  I  suppose  the  greatest  Drug  Store 
chain  in  the  United  States  say,  "I  choose 
the  Mormon  boys  wherever  I  can  get 
them."  He  has  confidence  in  you.  You 
will  resist  the  temptation  of  taking  any 
of  his  money.  You  will  represent  him 
in  his  business  in  giving  returns  for  his 
investment.  The  poet  has  said: 

It  is  easy  enough  to  be  pleasant 
When  life  flows  by  like  a  song, 
But  the  man  worth  while  is  the  one 

who  will  smile, 
When  everything  goes  dead  wrong. 
For  the  test  of  the  heart  is  trouble, 
And  it  always  comes  with  the  years, 
And  the  smile  that  is  worth  the  praises 

of  earth 

Is  the  smile  that  shines  through  tears. 

It  is  easy  enough  to  be  virtuous, 

When  nothing  tempts  you  to  stray, 

When  without  or  within  no  voice  of  sin 

Is  luring  your  soul  away; 

But  it's  only  a  negative  virtue 

Until  it  is  tried  by  fire, 

And  the  life  that  is  worth  the  honor 

on  earth 
Is  the  life  that  resists  desire. 

By  the  cynic,  the  sad,  the  fallen, 
Who  had  no  strength  for  the  strife, 
The  world's  highway  is  cumbered  today; 
They  make  up  the  sum  of  life. 
But  the  virtue  that  conquers  passion, 
And  the  sorrow  that  hides  in  a  smile, 
It  is  these  that  are  worth  the  homage  on 
earth 

For  we  find  them  but  once  in  a  while. 

—"Worth  While," 
by  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Resist  the  devil,  and  he  will  flee  from 
you. 

I  commend  Bishop  Wirthlin  and 
Bishop  Richards  for  their  excellent  mes- 
sages to  us  on  reverence,  and  as  one  of 
them  said  at  the  base  of  it  all  is  this 
virtue  of  self-control,  self-mastery.  There 
is  no  whispering  by  parents  during  the 
administration  of  the  Sacrament  when 
they  exercise  this  virtue.  There  is  no 
whispering  after  entering  the  House  of 
God.  There  is  communion  between  the 
spirit,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  There 
is  no  whispering  on  the  rostrum,  because 
all  preparation  is  made  beforehand. 

And  children  should  know,  though 
they  want  to  play,  that  they  have  to 
resist  it  during  the  worshipping  hour 
so  they  will  not  intrude  upon  the  con- 
centration and  the  spiritual  communion 
of  others. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  be  true  to 
the  responsibilities  given  us  directly  from 
heaven.  There  is  no  use  excusing  it  or 
modifying  it,  that  is  the  truth,  and  the 
body  of  Priesthood  listening  in  tonight, 
representing  the  hundreds  of  thousands 
who  hold  the  Priesthood,  carry  the  re- 
sponsibility of  setting  an  example  to  the 
whole  world. 

May  God  give  us  power  to  discharge 
our  duties  honorably  and  well — in  our 
homes,  in  our  business  relationships,  and 
especially  in  our  association  with  leaders 
in  the  world  who,  seeing  our  characters, 
our  leadership,  may  be  influenced  to 
lead  many  others  of  their  members  na- 
tionally under  their  control  to  favor  acts 
and  laws  necessary  that  the  missionaries, 
representatives  of  this  Church  may  car- 
ry the  Gospel  to  all  the  world.  That 
is  our  duty — to  teach  all  nations,  bap- 
tizing them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
teaching  them  to  observe  all  things, 
whatsoever  he  has  commanded,  and  he 
says,  "Lo,  I  am  with  you  always,  even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world." 

I  leave  my  blessing  with  you,  my  dear 
fellow  workers.  Our  hearts  are  full  of 
pride — righteous  pride — for  the  brother- 
hood exemplified  last  night  by  those 
young  boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
and  tonight  by  the  tens  of  thousands 
of  men  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


I  pray  God  to  give  us  power,  to  en- 
lighten our  minds,  quicken  our  under- 
standings, give  us  good  judgment  under 
all  conditions,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  Bishop  S.  E.  Abbott  call  Boise 
4-2906.  We  will  excuse  you  right  at  this 
moment. 

They  report  that  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  tonight  we  have  7,085  pres- 
ent. I  thought  we  had  more.  It  is 
crowded  to  capacity.  We  should  have 
counted  those  in  the  doorways.  In  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  we  have 
2,272;  in  the  139  groups  reporting  in, 
29,046,  or  a  total  of  38,403  men  in  the 
Priesthood  Meeting  tonight. 

We  thank  Brother  Condie  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Choir  for  the  excellent  sing- 
ing tonight.  I  do  not  know  if  we  have 
had  anything  better  than  that  second 
song  which  you  gave  us. 

The  Brethren  of  the  Council  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  receive 
recommendations  from  you  presidents  of 
stakes  every  week  about  releasing  bishops 
and  recommending  new  bishops.  Occa- 
sionally we  have  as  a  reason  for  releasing 
bishops,  length  of  service.  Sometimes 
that  is  a  good  reason,  but  other  times 
it  does  not  seem  to  the  Brethren  that  it 
is  a  sufficiently  valid  reason  to  release 
a  good  bishop  who  has  served  perhaps 
only  a  few  years — two  or  three  or  four 
years.  Five  years  is  sometimes  considered 
quite  a  length  of  time.  Some  of  you 
brethren  who  are  past  70  will  remember 
that  bishops  served  15,  20  and  25  years, 


and  were  real  leaders  in  their  social  and 
political  circles,  too. 

Now,  five  years  is  quite  a  long  time 
because  the  bishop  in  this  day  has  more 
to  do  than  a  bishop  had  at  that  time. 
He  has  a  lot  of  work,  but  don't  release 
bishops  just  because  they  have  had  two 
or  three  years  at  it — five  years,  10  years, 
— let's  get  up  to  20.  If  you  have  a  good 
bishop  most  of  your  troubles  are  over. 
Isn't  that  true?  A  bishop  who  uses  his 
counselors  wisely,  who  has  an  influence 
over  the  young  people  of  the  ward,  who 
has  an  influence  in  business  circles,  I 
tell  you,  he  exerts  a  good  influence  spir- 
itually. 

The  Choir  will  sing,  "Sweet  Hour  of 
Prayer,"  conducted  by  Richard  P. 
Condie,  after  which  Elder  A.  Lewis 
Elggren,  formerly  president  of  the  West- 
ern States  Mission,  will  offer  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  session  at  10:00  tomorrow  morn- 
ing will  be  broadcast  as  a  public  service 
over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  broadcast  will  be  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  Those  desiring  to  attend  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  must  be  in 
their  seats  at  9:15  a.m. 

We  will  now  hear,  "Sweet  Hour  of 
Prayer." 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  "Sweet  Hour  of  Prayer." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
A.  Lewis  Elggren,  formerly  president 
of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning,  October  12,  at  10:00. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


(For  a  full  report  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  see  pages 
130-131.) 

The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the 
General  Conference  convened  promptly 
at  10  o'clock,  following  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  meeting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  this  session,  Richard  P. 


Condie  conducting,  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  singing,  "Hear  My  Cry, 
O  God."  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner, 
president  of  the  Calgary  Stake. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  12 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Hear  My  Cry, 
O  God." 

Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  presi- 
dent of  the  Calgary  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  opening  prayer  has  been  offered 


Third  Day 

by  Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  presi- 
dent of  the  Calgary  Stake.  The  Taber- 
nacle Choir  will  now  sing,  "The  Lord 
Is  My  Shepherd,"  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting. 


The  Choir  sang,  "The  Lord  Is  My 
Shepherd." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  please  believe 
me  that  never  before  have  I  felt  so 
keenly  the  need  of  your  sympathetic 
co-operation,  and  particularly  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  in 
mind  and  in  my  heart  the  feeling  that 
the  religious  influence,  sincere  religious 
influence  in  the  heart,  or  the  life  of  the 
individual,  is  the  most  refining  influ- 
ence in  the  world.  That  spirit  has 
actuated  each  one,  I  am  sure,  who  has 
spoken  to  us  in  previous  sessions  of  this 
conference,  and  I  should  like  to  empha- 
size that  with  your  help  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  in  the  few  remarks 
that  I  make  on  this  occasion. 

It  is  a  wonderful  influence — to  see 
this  vast  audience,  to  realize  that  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  are 
also  crowded,  and  that  tens  of  thousands 
are  listening  in  by  television  and  radio 
this  morning. 

Jesus,  in  a  wonderful  prayer — I  think 
it  must  have  been  the  most  impressive 
ever  offered  in  this  world — said  these 
words: 

"And  now  I  am  no  more  in  the  world, 
but  these  [referring  to  the  members  of 
the  Twelve  who  knelt  with  him]  are 
in  the  world,  and  I  come  to  thee.  Holy 
Father,  keep  through  thine  own  name 
those  whom  thou  hast  given  me,  that 
they  may  be  one,  as  we  are.  ... 

"I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take 
them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 
shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil." 
(John  17:11,  15.) 

A  number  of  years  ago,  a  stake  presi- 
dent upon  being  honorably  released 
from  his  position  in  which  he  had  served 
well,  made  the  remark:  "Now  I  am 
reduced  to  just  a  humble  member." 
Because  he  had  been  released,  he  felt 
that  he  had  lost  something.  Well,  he 
had.   He  had  lost  the  privilege  of  serv- 


ing the  members  of  his  stake  as  presi- 
dent, for  to  be  a  stake  president,  or  to 
hold  any  other  position  in  the  Church, 
is  an  honor  as  well  as  a  great  responsi- 
bility. But  to  be  a  lay  member  is  also  a 
great  obligation  as  well  as  a  great  op- 
portunity. 

Membership  is  obtained  by  baptism, 
which  is  at  once  a  burial  and  a  birth — 
a  burial  of  the  old  person,  with  all  his 
frailties,  faults,  and  sins,  if  any,  and  a 
coming  forth  to  walk  in  a  newness  of 
life.  Backbiting,  faultfinding,  slander, 
profanity,  uncontrolled  temper,  avarice, 
jealousy,  hatred,  intemperance,  fornica- 
tion, lying,  cheating,  are  all  buried. 
That  is  part  of  what  baptism  by  immer- 
sion signifies.  "Except  a  man  be  born 
again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of 
God,"  (Ibid.,  3:3)  said  Jesus  to  Nico- 
demus.  He  comes  forth  to  walk  in  a 
newness  of  life,  signifying  that  in  the 
new  life  ahead  there  will  be  an  effort 
to  maintain  honesty,  loyalty,  chastity, 
benevolence,  and  of  doing  good  to  all 
men. 

Wordsworth  once  said  of  Milton: 
"Thy  soul  was  like  a  star  and  dwelt 
apart."  That  is  what  membership  in 
the  Church  does  to  those  who  keep  the 
ideals  they  profess. 

James  said  that,  "Pure  religion  and 
undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is 
this,  To  visit  the  fatherless  and  widows 
in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world."  (James 
1:27.) 

It  is  in  this  sense  of  keeping  ourselves 
"unspotted"  from  the  world  that  the 
lay  members,  as  all  officers,  are  obli- 
gated. 

Speaking  of  the  apostles,  Jesus  prayed, 
".  .  .  these  are  in  the  world,  .  .  . 

"I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take 
them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 


PRESIDENT  DA 

shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil." 
(John  17:11,  15.) 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  forty- 
second  chapter  of  Alma,  we  are  told 
why  the  children  of  God  are  here  in 
the  world — namely,  to  mingle  with  the 
sons  of  men,  to  gain  an  experience  that 
will  bring  them  back  to  God,  but  not 
to  partake  of  the  sins  of  the  world.  The 
Savior  said  to  his  apostles  on  the  same 
evening  that  he  offered  that  beautiful 
prayer:  ".  .  .  be  of  good  cheer;  I  have 
overcome  the  world."  (John  16:33.) 
Going  soon  to  meet  his  Father,  he  ad- 
monished them  to  follow  his  example, 
praying  that  God  should  not  take  them 
out  of  the  world,  but  should  keep  them 
from  evil. 

I  have  never  met  a  member  of  the 
Church  who  would  not  express  himself, 
and,  if  occasion  arose,  who  did  not  so 
express  himself  as  being  willing  to  de- 
fend his  membership  if  this  Church 
were  attacked.  I  have  seen  boys  appar- 
ently indifferent  to  Church  interest 
on  occasions  stand  out  and  express  de- 
fiance of  an  attack  upon  the  Church. 
All  very  commendable,  but  perhaps  at 
the  very  moment  of  that  gallant  defense 
there  were  encroachments  upon  their 
souls  which  weakened  their  power  to 
defend  the  truth.  Trees  that  can  stand 
in  the  midst  of  the  hurricane  often  yield 
to  the  destroying  pests  that  can  scarcely 
be  seen  with  the  microscope,  and  the 
greatest  foes  of  humanity  today  are  those 
unseen  microscopic  microbes  that  attack 
the  body. 

So  there  are  influences  at  work  in  so- 
ciety which  are  undermining  the  man- 
hood and  womanhood  of  today.  It  is 
these  unseen  influences  which  come 
from  the  world  that  influence  us  when 
we  are  least  prepared  to  defend  our- 
selves. When  we  do  not  withstand  the 
encroachments  of  these  evil  influences, 
we  weaken  the  possibility  of  defending 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  an 
individual  work.  What  the  individuals 
are,  that  the  aggregate  is.  Jesus  influenced 
individuals,  knowing  that  if  the  indi- 
vidual is  pure,  strong,  a  thousand 
individuals  would  make  a  strong  com- 
munity, and  a  thousand  communities 
would  make  a  strong  nation.  Individual 
responsibility! 

Some  time  ago,  a  party  of  friends  were 
driving  over  a  beautiful  valley  not  far 


ID  O.  McKAY  91 

from  Salt  Lake  City.  They  passed  a 
wheat  field.  It  was  an  impressive  sight 
to  see  that  dry  farm  of  wheat,  and  one 
of  the  party  expressed  his  admiration 
at  the  luxuriant  growth  in  the  field, 
and  looked  at  it  in  general.  There  it 
stood,  apart  from  the  sagebrush  and 
barren  surroundings.  But  another  mem- 
ber of  the  party  was  not  satisfied  with 
looking  at  it  in  the  aggregate.  He  asked 
the  conveyance  to  stop.  Getting  out, 
he  looked  at  the  individual  heads  of 
wheat,  and  exclaimed:  "What  large 
heads!"  He  cut  an  individual  stalk 
which  gave  him  that  impression.  But 
that  was  not  enough.  He  broke  the 
head,  shuffled  it  in  his  hands,  blew  the 
chaff  away,  and  examined  each  kernel. 
"The  kernels,"  continued  he,  "are 
plump  and  solid."  After  all,  the  test 
of  that  wheat  field  was  the  individual 
kernel  of  wheat,  and  so  it  is  in  a  com- 
munity— so  it  is  in  the  Church. 

The  test  of  the  efficiency  of  God's 
people,  is  an  individual  one. 

"What  is  each  one  doing,"  one  should 
ask,  "to  foster  the  group  known  as  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  the  world?  Is  he 
living  so  that  he  is  keeping  unspotted 
from  the  evils  of  the  world?"  God  wants 
us  here.  His  plan  of  redemption,  so 
far  as  we  are  concerned,  is  here,  and  we, 
my  fellow  workers  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  are  carrying  the  responsibility 
of  testifying  to  the  world  that  God's 
truth  has  been  revealed;  that  men  and 
women  can  live  in  this  world,  free  and 
uncontaminated  from  the  sins  thereof, 
following  as  nearly  as  humanly  possible, 
Jesus  as  he  walked  about  two  and  a 
half  years  in  his  day. 

Now,  what  do  we  mean  by  the 
world?  I  take  it  that  the  world  refers 
to  the  inhabitants  who  are  alienated 
from  the  Saints  of  God.  They  are 
aliens  to  the  Church,  and  it  is  the 
spirit  of  this  alienation  from  which  we 
should  keep  ourselves  free.  We  are  told 
by  Paul  not  to  conform  to  the  fashions 
of  the  world.  Timothy  was  warned  not 
to  partake  of  the  evils  of  the  world. 
One  or  two  I  quote: 

"Flee  also  youthful  lusts:  but  follow 
righteousness,  faith,  charity,  peace,  with 
them  that  call  on  the  Lord  out  of  a 
pure  heart."  (II  Timothy  2:22.)  Zion 
is  the  pure  in  heart,  we  have  been  told, 
and  the  strength  of  this  Church  lies  in 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  12 

the  purity  of  the  thoughts  and  lives  of 
its  workers.  Then  the  testimony  of 
Jesus  abides  in  the  soul,  and  strength 
comes  to  each  individual  to  withstand 
the  evils  of  the  world. 

Temptations  come  in  our  social  gath- 
erings. They  come  to  us  at  our  wed- 
dings. They  come  to  us  in  our  politics. 
They  come  to  us  in  our  business  rela- 
tions, on  the  farm,  in  the  mercantile 
establishments,  in  our  dealings  in  all 
affairs  of  life.  In  our  home  associations, 
we  find  these  insidious  influences  work- 
ing, and  it  is  when  they  manifest  them- 
selves in  the  consciousness  of  each  in- 
dividual that  the  defense  of  truth 
should  exert  itself. 

There  may  never  come  a  great  oppor- 
tunity to  defend  the  Church.  We  sing: 

"It  may  not  be 

On  the  mountain  height, 

Or  over  the  stormy  sea; 

It  may  not  be  at  the  battle's  front 

My  Lord  will  have  need  of  me; 

But  if,  by  a  still,  small  voice  he  calls 

To  paths  that  I  do  not  know, 

I'll  answer,  dear  Lord,  with  my  hand 

in  thine: 
I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go." 

When  that  still,  small  voice  calls  us 
to  the  performance  of  duty,  insignificant 
though  it  may  seem,  and  its  perform- 
ance unknown  to  anyone  save  the  in- 
dividual and  God,  he  who  responds 
gains  corresponding  strength.  Tempta- 
tion often  comes  in  the  same  quiet  way. 
Perhaps  yielding  to  it  may  not  be 
known  by  anyone  save  the  individual 
and  his  God,  but  if  he  does  yield  to  it, 
he  becomes  to  that  extent  weakened 
and  spotted  with  the  evil  of  the  world. 

Let  me  cite  an  instance:  A  young 
missionary  was  invited  to  a  wedding  in 
a  foreign  country,  at  which  two  of  his 
acquaintances  were  joined  together  in 
bonds  of  matrimony,  the  ceremony  be- 
ing performed  by  a  minister  of  another 
church.  This  young  man  was  the  only 
member  of  the  Mormon  Church  pres- 
ent amidst  the  one  hundred  or  more 
guests  at  the  table  in  the  hotel.  By  each 
plate  was  a  wine  cup,  filled  to  the  brim, 
and  also  a  glass  of  water.  After  the 
ceremony,  as  the  guests  were  all  in  their 
places,  the  minister  arose  and  said: 
"Now  I  propose  that  the  company  drink 


Third  Day 

to  the  health  of  the  newly  married 
couple."  They  all  arose.  Now  pro- 
priety suggested  that  this  young  man 
take  up  the  wine  in  his  wine  cup.  But 
he  was  a  missionary.  He  belonged  to  a 
Church  that  preaches  a  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. Science  since  has  proved  it  to  be 
indeed  a  Word  of  Wisdom.  He  was 
preaching  that,  and  he  was  pretending 
to  live  it.  Here  was  a  time  when  he 
could  indulge.  No  one  would  know — 
indeed,  it  seemed  to  be  the  act  of  pro- 
priety, but  he  resisted.  Now  was  the 
opportunity  to  defend  his  Church,  and 
that  is  what  he  did.  He  took  the  glass 
of  water.  Some  of  his  immediate 
friends  by  him,  dropping  their  wine 
cups,  followed  his  example,  and  at  least 
half  a  dozen  wine  glasses  remained  un- 
touched. Others  saw  it,  and  the  cir- 
cumstance furnished  an  excellent  op- 
portunity to  converse  with  those  guests 
upon  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Now,  was  he  humiliated?  No.  He 
was  strengthened.  Were  the  guests  em- 
barrassed? No.  Did  they  feel  to  con- 
demn him?  No.  Condemnation  was 
replaced  by  admiration,  as  it  always  is 
in  the  hearts  of  intelligent  and  God- 
fearing men  and  women. 

Converts  to  the  truth  walk  out  of  the 
waters  of  baptism  with  a  glow  upon 
their  countenances,  especially  after  con- 
firmation which  they  have  never  had 
before.  They  realize  that  they  have 
taken  upon  themselves  the  name  of 
Christ,  and  covenant  to  walk  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  ideals  of  his  gospel. 
During  Sunday  School  and  Sacrament 
meetings  they  are  permitted  to  make  a 
covenant,  as  does  every  lay  member. 
In  the  presence  of  his  fellow  members 
of  the  Church,  he  covenants  before  God 
that  he  is  willing  to  take  upon  him  the 
name  of  the  Son,  always  to  remember 
him  and  keep  his  commandments  which 
he  has  given  him,  and  by  so  doing  to 
always  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
be  with  him.  That  is  true  religion. 

What  a  covenant  for  every  lay  mem- 
ber! Is  he  virtuous  in  thought  and  ac- 
tion? Is  he  dealing  honestly  with  his 
neighbor  in  the  horse  and  cattle  trade, 
in  the  purchase  of  property,  in  any 
business  transaction?  If  he  believes  in 
the  covenants  he  has  made,  if  he  is  true 
to  the  covenants  he  has  made,  if  he 
believes  in  the  efficacy  of  the  Church  to 


PRESIDENT  DA 

which  he  belongs,  he  has  obligated 
himself  to  do  these  things.  If  called 
to  a  prominent  position,  it  is  his  duty 
to  be  true,  and  he  is  more  obligated 
than  ever  to  set  an  example  to  others. 
He  may  not  be  called,  however,  but  his 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  obligates  him  to  these  high  ideals. 
Only  in  that  way  can  religion  become 
the  most  influential  and  potent  power 
in  life. 

It  is  generally  understood  that  every 
member  of  the  Church  should  be  a 
missionary.  He  is  probably  not  author- 
ized to  go  from  house  to  house,  but  he 
is  authorized,  by  virtue  of  his  member- 
ship, to  set  a  proper  example  as  a  good 
neighbor.  Neighbors  are  watching  him. 
Neighbors  are  watching  his  children. 
He  is  a  light,  and  it  is  his  duty  not  to 
have  that  light  hidden  under  a  bushel, 
but  it  should  be  set  up  on  a  hill  that 
all  men  may  be  guided  thereby. 

Here  is  a  good  example  of  how  a  lay 
member  may  preach  by  example: 

Over  a  hundred  years  ago  a  man  in 
his  early  forties  who  had  already  won 
distinction  as  a  great  writer  heard  of  a 
company  of  Mormons  who  would  be 
sailing  from  the  docks  in  London  on  a 
certain  day  in  June  1861.  In  charge 
of  those  Mormons  was  Elder  George  Q. 
Cannon.  It  was  an  emigrant  ship.  This 
great  writer,  Charles  Dickens,  was  then 
writing  what  afterwards  became  known 
as  The  Uncommercial  Traveller.  He 
took  his  pad  and  paper,  walked  down 
to  the  docks.  You  who  have  read  this 
book  will  remember  how  he  describes 
those  docks  and  the  various  characters 
around  them.  He  got  permission  from 
the  captain  to  go  aboard  the  vessel 
which  had  been  chartered  to  carry  eight 
hundred  Mormons  across  the  sea  on 
their  journey  to  Great  Salt  Lake. 

He  recognized  the  passengers  as  some 
coming  from  Wales,  some  from  Scot- 
land, some  from  Yorkshire,  and  others 
from  near  London.  He  listened  to  the 
inspector  call  their  names — Jesse  Job- 
son,  Sophronia  Jobson — lay  members  of 
the  Church.  Next  group:  Susanna 
Cleverly,  William  Cleverly,  etc. — lay- 
man after  layman  passed  on  board  the 
vessel.  Dickens  went  down  to  the  lower 
deck  and  then  he  came  up  on  the  higher 
deck  to  investigate.    He  studied  each 


ID  O.  McKAY  93 

group  and  each  individual  carefully. 
Among  other  things  he  said: 

"Nobody  is  in  an  ill  temper.  Nobody 
is  the  worse  for  drink.  Nobody  swears 
an  oath  or  uses  a  coarse  word.  Nobody 
appears  depressed.  Nobody  is  weeping, 
and  down  upon  the  deck  in  every  cor- 
ner where  it  is  possible  to  find  a  few 
square  feet  to  kneel,  crouch,  or  lie  in, 
people  in  every  unsuitable  attitude. for 
writing  letters,  are  writing  letters." 
Then  he  says:  "Now  I  have  seen  emi- 
grant ships  before  this  day  in  June, 
and  these  people  are  so  strikingly  dif- 
ferent from  all  other  people  I  have  seen 
in  like  circumstances  whom  I  have  ever 
seen  that  I  wonder  aloud,  What  would 
a  stranger  suppose  these  emigrants  to 
be?'"  Then  he  adds:  "What  is  in 
store  for  the  poor  people  on  the  shores 
of  the  Great  Salt  Lake?  What  happy 
delusions  they  are  laboring  under  now. 
On  what  miserable  blindness  their  eyes 
may  be  opened  then,  I  do  not  pretend 
to  say.  But  I  went  on  board  their  ship 
to  bear  testimony  against  them  if  they 
deserved  it,  as  I  fully  believed  they 
would.  To  my  great  astonishment,  they 
did  not  deserve  it;  and  my  predisposi- 
tions and  tendencies  must  not  affect  me 
as  an  honest  witness.  I  went  over  the 
Amazon's  side  feeling  it  impossible  to 
deny  that  so  far  some  remarkable  influ- 
ence had  produced  a  remarkable  result, 
which  better  known  influences  have 
often  missed." 

My  dear  fellow  workers,  lay  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  what 
would  have  happened  to  this  one  hun- 
dred-year-old testimony  by  a  world- 
renowned  author  if  those  members  of 
the  Church,  Brother  Jobson,  Sister  Job- 
son,  and  those  other  humble  people 
from  Wales,  had  not  observed  the  prin- 
ciples of  good  conduct  in  the  Church? 
What  would  have  happened  if  they  had 
taken  the  Lord's  name  in  vain?  If  they 
had  taken  an  oath?  If  Charles  Dickens 
had  seen  them  quarreling?  Instead, 
not  an  oath  did  he  hear.  He  saw  no 
quarreling,  heard  no  bickering.  He  was 
compelled  to  say:  "Some  remarkable 
influence  had  produced  a  remarkable 
result  in  the  lives  of  these  English 
people,  which  better  known  influences 
have  often  missed." 

In  other  words,  some  influence  had 
changed  men's  lives  and  made  women 


94 

Sunday,  October  12 

and  children  better  than  they  had  ever 
been  before.  That  is  the  mission  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — to  make 
evil-minded  men  and  women  good,  and 
to  make  good  men  and  women  better; 
in  other  words,  to  change  men's  lives, 
to  change  human  nature. 

Beverley  Nichols  (and  I  repeat  what 
I  have  said  before),  author  of  The  Fool 
Hath  Said,  writes  impressively  on 
changing  of  human  nature:  "You  can 
change  human  nature.  No  man  who 
has  felt  in  him  the  Spirit  of  Christ, 
even  for  half  a  minute,  can  deny  this 
truth,  the  one  great  truth  in  a  world  of 
little  lies.  You  do  change  human  na- 
ture, your  own  human  nature,  if  you 
surrender  it  to  him.  To  deny  this  is 
only  to  proclaim  yourself  as  an  un- 
educated fool. 

"Human  nature  can  be  changed,  here 
and  now. 

"Human  nature  has  been  changed, 
in  the  past. 

"Human  nature  must  be  changed,  on 
an  enormous  scale,  in  the  future,  unless 
the  world  is  to  be  drowned  in  its  own 
blood. 

"And  only  Christ  can  change  it.  .  .  . 

"Twelve  men  did  quite  a  lot  to  change 
the  world  nineteen  hundred  years  ago. 
Twelve  simple  men,  with  only  the  wind 
to  bear  them  over  the  seas,  with  only  a 
few  pence  in  their  pockets,  and  a  shining 
faith  in  their  hearts!  They  fell  far 
short  of  their  ideal;  their  words  were 
twisted  and  mocked;  and  false  temples 
were  built  over  their  bones,  in  praise 
of  a  Christ  they  would  have  rejected. 
And  yet,  by  the  light  of  their  inspira- 
tion, many  of  the  world's  loveliest  things 
were  created,  and  many  of  the  world's 
finest  minds  inspired. 

"If  twelve  men  did  that  nineteen 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

hundred  years  ago,  what  might  not 
twelve  men  do  today?  For  God  has 
now  given  us  the  power  of  whispering 
across  space,  of  transmitting  our 
thoughts  from  one  end  of  the  earth  to 
another.  What  shall  we  whisper — 
what  shall  we  think?  That  is  the 
question!" 

To  be  just  a  lay  member  of  the 
Church  means  that  every  man  is  a 
Christian  gentleman,  that  every  hus- 
band is  true  to  the  ideals  of  chastity, 
that  every  young  boy  and  every  young 
girl  refrains  from  indulgence  in  tobacco, 
in  strong  drink,  and  keeps  himself  or 
herself  free  from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
That  is  what  Mormonism  means  in  daily 
life.  If  you  are  called  upon  to  render 
service  in  any  position,  render  it.  If 
you  are  released,  you  will  accept  your 
release,  always  remembering  that  the 
Church  is  established  for  your  benefit, 
and  the  benefit  and  happiness  of  your 
children  and  your  children's  children. 
If  you  will  live  in  accordance  with  those 
humble  principles  under  the  covenants 
you  made  at  the  water's  edge,  and  since 
that  time  in  Sacrament  meetings,  and 
many  of  you  in  the  House  of  God,  you 
will  fill  a  noble  mission,  and  God  will 
reward  you. 

May  every  member  of  the  Church 
experience  this  transformation  in  this 
life,  and  so  live  that  others,  seeing  his 
good  deeds,  may  be  led  to  glorify  our 
Father  in  heaven,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends:  I  have  sought  earnestly  to  pre- 
pare myself  for  this  occasion  and  now 
that  it  has  come  my  hope  and  prayer, 
in  which  I  ask  you  to  join,  is  that  we 
may  continue  to  enjoy  the  sweet  influ- 
ence we  have  felt  while  listening  to  the 
great  message  of  President  McKay. 

As  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  I 


realize  that  many  of  you,  unseen  by  me, 
are  listening  in  on  radio  and  television. 
You  are  most  welcome.  Indeed,  we 
feel  complimented  by  your  participation 
with  us.  As  I  speak  I  shall  have  you 
in  mind,  particularly  you  who  may  not 
be  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
If  you  have  been  with  us  during  the 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


95 


last  hour  you  have  heard,  and  perhaps 
seen,  President  David  O.  McKay  de- 
liver a  most  timely  and  inspirational 
address.  Moved  by  it,  as  I  know  you 
were,  perhaps  you  will  be  even  more 
impressed  if  I  tell  you  something  about 
his  high  and  holy  calling. 

You  have  already  observed  that  he 
is  an  unusual  personality — tall,  straight, 
dignified,  and  gracious.  Through  a  de- 
voted lifelong  service  to  his  God  and 
to  his  fellow  men  he  has  partaken  so 
deeply  of  the  divine  nature  that  he  is 
filled  with  that  charity  defined  by  one 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  prophets  as  the 
"pure  love  of  Christ." 

Fine  as  he  is  in  his  own  right,  the 
great  office  to  which  he  has  been  called 
adds  to  his  stature.  For  he  is  not  just 
the  presiding  officer  of  an  ordinary 
church,  he  is  the  rightful  successor  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.  He  is 
God's  prophet  and  personal  repre- 
sentative in  the  earth.  Just  as  Peter 
was  the  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  former-day  saints,  so  President 
McKay  is  today  the  president  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  He  is  the  President  of  the 
priesthood  of  that  Church.  He  is  in 
fact  and  in  truth  a  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator.  To  this  high  station  he  was 
called  through  revelation  from  heaven. 
He  was  not  appointed  nor  elected  to 
it  by  men. 

In  1906,  under  divine  inspiration, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  then  God's 
personal  representative  and  mouthpiece 
in  the  earth,  laid  his  hands  upon  Presi- 
dent McKay  and  conferred  upon  him 
the  holy  apostleship  with  all  its  gifts 
and  powers.  Pursuant  to  the  order  of 
God's  Holy  Priesthood  which  is  the 
government  operative  in  the  Church 
of  Christ,  he  was,  in  April  1951,  sus- 
tained in  and  ordained  to  his  present 
high  office. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  con- 
ferred the  apostleship  upon  President 
McKay,  had  received  his  authority  in 
like  manner  from  President  Brigham 
Young.  President  Young  had  received 
his  authority  from  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
Joseph  Smith,  Jr. 

And  who  was  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.?  He 
was  none  other  than  God's  great  proph- 
et of  the  restoration. 
At  the  head  of  every  gospel  dispen- 


sation the  Lord  has  placed  one  of  his 
mighty  sons — Adam,  Noah,  Abraham, 
for  example.  Jesus  Christ,  himself, 
stood  at  the  head  of  the  Dispensation 
of  the  Meridian  of  Time.  Joseph  Smith, 
Jr.,  than  whom  none  of  these  save  Jesus 
only  was  greater,  was  appointed  and 
ordained  in  the  heavens  to  head  this 
last  and  greatest  dispensation,  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  into 
which,  as  rivers  into  a  mighty  ocean, 
flow  all  former  dispensations.  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  to  modern  Israel  what 
Moses  was  to  ancient  Israel,  leader,  law- 
giver, prophet,  seer,  and  revelator. 

You  will  recall  that  John  the  Beloved 
saw  in  vision  an  ".  .  .  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people." 
(Revelation  14:6.)  Joseph  Smith  was 
the  person  to  whom  that  angel  came. 

Born  of  humble  parents,  he  lived  less 
than  thirty-nine  years.  In  June  1844, 
he  died  a  martyr,  sealing  with  his  own 
blood  his  witness  to  the  truth,  even  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  through 
him  God  had  restored  to  earth  for  the 
benefit  of  all  men. 

This  gospel  has  often  been  spoken  of 
as  a  way  of  life.  This  however  is  not 
quite  accurate.  Consisting  as  it  does 
of  the  principles  and  ordinances  neces- 
sary to  man's  exaltation,  it  is  not  just 
a  way  of  life,  it  is  the  one  and  only  way 
of  life  by  which  men  may  accomplish 
the  full  purpose  of  their  mortality. 

The  gospel  begins  with  God  and 
man's  relationship  to  him. 

In  the  early  1800's,  the  days  of  the 
Prophet's  youth,  no  living  man  had  a 
correct  understanding  of  God.  Pro- 
fessed believers  knew  no  more  about 
him  than  did  the  Athenians  who  posted 
inscriptions  to  the  "Unknown  God." 

Stirred  by  a  religious  revival,  moved 
with  a  sincere  desire  to  know  which,  if 
any,  of  the  contending  sects  was  right 
and  relying  upon  the  promise  of  James 
that,  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let 
him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it 
shall  be  given  him"  (James  1:5),  Joseph 
Smith  in  simple  faith  and  earnest 
prayer  sought  wisdom  from  God. 

The  time  was  spring,  1820.  Joseph 
was  then  in  his  fourteenth  year. 


96 

Sunday,  October  12 

The  place  was  Palmyra,  Western 
New  York  state. 

The  result:  God  the  Eternal  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to 
him.  "I  saw  two  Personages,"  he  said, 
"whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all 
description."  These  two  Personages 
spoke  to  him  and  called  him  by  name. 
He  heard  their  voices  and  asked  them 
questions.  They  gave  him  answer. 
(Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Joseph  Smith 
2:17.) 

When  he  came  out  of  that  sacred 
interview  he  knew  with  certainty  the 
nature  of  God.  He  had  seen  and  con- 
versed with  him.  From  him  he  had 
received  a  personal  introduction  to  his 
resurrected  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

In  after  years  Joseph  referred  to  God 
as  an  "exalted  man,"  and  said  that 
both  he  and  the  Son  were  personages 
of  flesh  and  bone,  as  tangible  as  man. 
(D  &  C  130:22.) 

Through  subsequent  revelations  he 
learned  that  the  relationship  between 
God  and  men  is  that  of  parent  and 
children.  "The  inhabitants"  of  the 
"worlds"  .  .  .  "are  begotten  sons  and 
daughters  unto  God,"  said  the  Lord  to 
him  in  one  of  the  revelations.  (Ibid., 
76:24.) 

The  Prophet  further  learned  through 
communication  from  heaven  that  as  the 
begotten  children  of  God  we  are  en- 
dowed with  the  potential  to  become  like 
him,  even  as  mortal  children  may  be- 
come like  their  mortal  parents.  He 
came  to  understand  the  high  ideal  pro- 
jected by  the  Savior,  "Be  ye  therefore 
perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is 
in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.) 

Not  only  did  Joseph  Smith  receive 
through  divine  revelation  knowledge 
concerning  God,  man's  relationship  to 
him,  the  doctrine  of  eternal  progression, 
and  all  the  other  glorious  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  upon  obedience  to  which  man's 
exaltation  is  conditioned,  he  was  also 
divinely  commissioned  to  organize,  and 
again  establish  upon  earth,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ;  the  organization 
through  which  these  principles  and 
ordinances  can  be  authoritatively  taught 
and  administered.  To  enable  him  to 
do  so  he  was  endowed  with  the  Holy 
Priesthood  which  is  delegated  author- 
ity to  act  in  the  name  of  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

John  the  Baptist,  who  held  the  keys 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  the  days 
of  Jesus,  now  a  resurrected  person, 
came  to  earth  and  laid  his  hands  upon 
the  heads  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  and  conferred  upon  them  "the 
Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the 
keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and 
of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins."  (D  &  C  13.) 

Peter,  James,  and  John,  who  as  the 
presidency  of  Christ's  Church  in  the 
apostolic  dispensation  held  the  keys  of 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  came  and 
conferred  this  priesthood  and  the  keys 
thereof  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver.  Other 
holy  beings  delivered  to  them  gospel 
keys  which  they  had  received  and  held 
in  former  dispensations.  For  example, 
in  April  of  1836,  Moses  "committed 
unto  .  . .  [them]  the  keys  of  the  gather- 
ing of  Israel  .  .  ."  and  the  restoration 
of  the  ten  tribes.  Elias  ".  .  .  committed 
the  dispensation  of  the  gospel  of 
Abraham,"  and  "Elijah  the  prophet, 
who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tast- 
ing death,  stood  before  [them]  .  .  .  and 
said:  Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come, 
which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of 
Malachi— testifying  that  he  [Elijah] 
should  be  sent,  before  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — To 
turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  children  to  the  fathers, 
lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a 
curse —  Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dis- 
pensation are  committed  into  your 
hands;  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
is  near,  even  at  the  doors."  (Ibid., 
110:11-16.)  Thus  was  the  gospel  for  the 
salvation  of  the  dead  restored. 

Having  thus  received  from  heavenly 
beings  the  foregoing  and  other  endow- 
ments, Joseph  Smith  the  prophet  and 
his  associate  Oliver  Cowdery  conferred 
them  upon  the  members  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  as  they  were  di- 
rected by  the  Lord  to  do.  Brigham 
Young,  one  of  the  original  Twelve  suc- 
ceeded the  Prophet  Joseph  as  president 
of  the  Church.  President  David  O. 
McKay,  as  already  pointed  out,  is  today 
the  rightful  successor  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  He  now  holds  all  the 
priesthood,  keys,  and  powers  received 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


97 


Now,  my  beloved  brothers  and  sis- 
ters and  friends,  it  is  our  solemn  obli- 
gation and  great  joy  to  testify  to  you 
that  these  things  are  so.  They  are  not 
"cunningly  devised  fables."  They  are 
realities  of  the  utmost  significance.  We 
know  them  to  be  true  with  the  same 
certainty  that  Peter  knew  Jesus  was 
the  Christ  when,  in  answer  to  the 
Master's  question,  "But  whom  say  ye 
that  I  am?"  he  boldly  declared,  "Thou 
art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God."  This  he  knew,  said  Jesus,  be- 
cause his  Father  in  heaven  had  revealed 
it  unto  him.  The  conviction  with 
which  we  speak  was  obtained  in  the 
same  way.  (Matt.  16:15-16.) 

In  like  manner  every  child  of  God 
if  he  will  but  do  the  work  as  Jesus 
said,  may  know  of  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  that  President  David  O.  McKay  is 
now  his  legal  successor;  he  may  like- 
wise know  that  the  gospel  as  restored 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  is  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the 
repository  of  that  gospel,  that  the 
Church  possesses  the  priesthood  of  God 
and  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God 
and  that  to  the  Church  God  has  given 
the  commission  and  the  power  to  preach 
the  gospel  and  administer  all  the 
ordinances  necessary  to  the  salvation 
and  exaltation  of  us,  his  children. 

The  Lord  is  no  respector  of  persons. 
He  himself  has  said  that,  ".  .  .  every 
soul  who  forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh 
unto  me,  and  calleth  on  my  name,  and 
obeyeth  my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  com- 
mandments, shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am."  (D  &  C  93:1.) 

If  enough  people  can  be  brought  to 
this  knowledge  they  will  exercise  such 
power  for  righteousness  that  the  strifes 
and  contentions  of  this  world  will  melt 
away  as  the  hoarfrost  before  the  burning 
rays  of  the  rising  sun.  Upon  the  slim 
prospect  that  such  will  be  the  case 
hangs  the  issue  of  the  preservation  or 
termination  of  our  present  civilization. 

To  provide  an  escape  from  our  threat- 
ened destruction  was  one  of  the  rea- 
sons specified  by  the  Lord  for  restoring 
the  gospel.  ".  .  .  knowing  the  calamity 
which  should  come  upon  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  earth,"  he  said,  "I  the 


Lord,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph 
Smith,  Jun.,  and  spake  unto  him  from 
heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments." 
(Ibid.,  1:17.)  Obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments here  referred  to — the  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  of  the  gospel — con- 
stitute the  sure  and  only  means  of 
escaping  the  impending  calamity.  That 
the  peoples  of  the  earth  will  avail  them- 
selves of  this  means  of  escape  is  by  no 
means  certain.  But  whether  they  do 
or  whether  they  do  not  they  who  know 
the  truth  are  not  dismayed,  for  they 
know  that  the  promised  blessings  do  not 
depend  upon  the  conduct  of  others  and 
that  that  peace  promised  by  the  Savior 
flows  into  the  heart  of  every  soul  who 
keeps  his  commandments  regardless  of 
what  others  do.  Even  as  Jesus  "en- 
dured the  cross"  "for  the  joy  that  was 
set  before  him,"  (Hebrews  12:2)  so  his 
true  disciples  are  sustained  in  their 
trials  by  an  inner  peace  and  the  glorious 
hope  and  assurance  of  eternal  life. 
Such  are  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Of  these  glorious  gospel  truths  I  bear 
humble  and  solemn  witness.    To  each 
of  you  I  extend  an  urgent  invitation  to 
"Come  listen  to  a  prophet's  voice, 
And  hear  the  word  of  God, 
And  in  the  way  of  truth  rejoice, 
And  sing  for  joy  aloud. 
We've  found  the  way  the  prophets  went 
Who  lived  in  days  of  yore; 
Another  prophet  now  is  sent 
This  knowledge  to  restore." 

— Joseph  J.  Daynes 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  given  the  address  to 
which  we  have  just  listened  is  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  The  Choir  and  Congrega- 
tion will  now  sing,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet."  Elder  Condie 
will  lead  us. 

After  the  singing,  we  will  hear  from 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
A  Prophet." 


98 

Sunday,  October  12 

President  David  O.  McKay: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

Taft  Benson  of  the  Council   of  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Ezra     Sterling  W.  Sill. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  humbly  and  gratefully  I  stand 
before  you  in  response  to  the  call  of  him 
whom  we  sustain  as  Prophet,  Seer,  and 
Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church. 
With  all  my  heart  I  endorse  and  rejoice 
in  the  counsel  received  at  this  confer- 
ence. 

About  a  month  ago  our  beloved 
leader,  President  David  O.  McKay, 
delivered  an  inspiring  prayer  at  the 
dedication  of  the  London  Temple. 

As  an  introduction  to  what  I  trust 
the  Lord  will  be  pleased  to  have  me  say 
today,  I  quote  a  short  paragraph  from 
that  memorable  prayer: 

"Next  to  life,  we  express  gratitude  for 
the  gift  of  free  agency.  When  thou 
didst  create  man,  thou  placed  within 
him  part  of  thine  Omnipotence  and  bade 
him  choose  for  himself.  Liberty  and  con- 
science thus  became  a  sacred  part  of 
human  nature.  Freedom  not  only  to 
think,  but  to  speak  and  act,  is  a  God- 
given  privilege." 

Our  heritage  of  freedom  is  as  precious 
as  life  itself.  It  is  truly  a  God-given 
gift  to  man.  Since  the  time  of  the  coun- 
cil in  heaven,  the  fight  of  liberty-loving 
people  for  freedom  has  continued. 

Free  agency  is  an  eternal  principle 
vouchsafed  to  us  in  the  perfect  law  of 
liberty — the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Freedom  of  choice  is  more  to  be  treasured 
than  any  earthly  possession.  It  is 
guaranteed  in  our  heaven-inspired  Con- 
stitution. Yes,  freedom  is  an  inherited, 
inalienable,  divine  gift  to  men. 

When  the  Savior  of  mankind  wished 
to  impress  on  his  hearers  the  fruits  of 
his  teaching,  he  used  these  words: 
".  .  .  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 
(John  8:32.) 

We  are  moral  agents  with  freedom  to 
choose  between  right  and  wrong. 

Past  material  advances  have  been  the 
fruit  of  our  freedom — our  free  enter- 
prise system — our  American  way  of  life 
— our  God-given  freedom  of  choice.  The 


progress  of  the  future  must  stem  from 
this  same  basic  freedom. 

Because  our  forefathers  fought  for  the 
ideal  of  freedom;  because  our  fathers 
preserved  that  ideal  through  our  free 
enterprise  system  under  our  God-given 
free  agency;  because  they  were  willing  to 
make  religion  the  vital  force  of  daily 
living,  all  of  us  have  climbed  through 
the  years  to  new  heights  of  well-being 
and  inner  strength. 

But  it  is  not  only  in  the  moral  choice 
of  right  and  wrong  that  man  is  free. 
Among  the  relentless  quests  of  human 
history,  is  the  quest  for  political  free- 
dom. When  Patrick  Henry  shouted  his 
immortal  "Give  me  liberty  or  give  me 
death,"  he  did  not  speak  idly.  When 
at  Philadelphia  in  1776,  the  signers  of 
the  Declaration  of  Independence  affixed 
their  signatures  to  that  sacred  docu- 
ment, they,  in  a  very  real  sense,  were 
choosing  liberty  or  death.  Not  one  of 
them  but  knew  full  well  that  if  the 
revolution  failed,  if  the  fight  for  free- 
dom should  come  to  naught,  they  would 
be  branded  as  rebels  and  hanged  as 
traitors. 

The  inspired  founding  fathers  formu- 
lated a  system  of  government  with 
checks  and  balances  protecting  the  free- 
dom of  the  people.  But  even  this  was 
not  enough.  The  first  order  of  the  new 
congress  was  to  draw  up  a  Bill  of  Rights 
— ten  amendments  guaranteeing  for  all 
time  the  fundamental  freedoms  that  the 
American  people  insist  are  theirs  by  the 
will  of  God,  not  by  the  will  of  gov- 
ernment. 

Yes,  the  founders  of  this  nation  be- 
queathed to  us  a  heritage  of  freedom 
and  unity  that  is  our  most  priceless 
political  possession. 

But  to  be  enjoyed,  freedom  must  be 
won  continually.  The  major  responsi- 
bility of  government  is  to  guard  the  lives 
and  safeguard  the  freedom  of  its  citizens. 
Yet  even  in  the  operation  of  govern- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


99 


ment — especially  big  government — there 
are  real  dangers  to  our  freedom. 

Today  the  scope  and  variety  of  gov- 
ernmental operations  have  become 
amazingly  wide.  We  are  touched  by 
government  from  before  we  are  born 
until  after  we  die.  Government  im- 
pinges on  our  lives  every  hour  of  the 
day  and  night. 

Most  of  these  governmental  activities 
are  helpful  in  greater  or  lesser  degree, 
of  course.  But  we  must  face  the  central 
problem  of  just  how  much  of  our  lives, 
of  our  freedom,  of  our  economy,  and  of 
our  society,  we  want  to  entrust  to  gov- 
ernment. 

And  we  must  face  the  further  fact  of 
just  what  division  of  functions  we  want 
to  make  between  Washington  and  our 
state  capitals.  We  must  be  aware  of 
the  price  we  pay  when  we  place  more 
and  more  of  our  lives  in  the  hands  of 
centralized  government. 

It  is  high  time  we  awakened  to  the 
dangers  of  excessive  government  in  busi- 
ness and  in  agriculture.  It  is  time  we 
realized  the  perils  of  too  great  a  cen- 
tralization of  power,  and  too  much  de- 
pendence on  public  agencies. 

We  have  seen  in  the  past  quarter 
century  a  tremendous  shift  from  indi- 
vidual to  governmental  responsibility  in 
many  phases  of  economic  and  social 
life.  We  have  seen  a  rapid  shift  of 
responsibility  from  the  states  to  the 
federal  government. 

The  magnitude  of  these  changes  is 
revealed  by  a  few  simple  figures. 
Twenty-five  years  ago  the  federal  gov- 
ernment received  one-fourth  of  all  the 
taxes  collected  in  the  United  States. 
Today  the  federal  government — in  spite 
of  the  biggest  tax  cut  in  history  of 
$7,400,000,000  (7.4  percent)  in  1954— 
collects  not  one  fourth  but  three-fourths 
of  all  our  taxes.  Twenty-five  years  ago 
all  taxes,  federal,  state  and  local,  took 
14  percent  of  our  national  income.  To- 
day taxes  take  31  percent. 

I  recognize  that  there  have  been  rea- 
sons for  doing  more  things  through 
government,  and  for  doing  them  from 
Washington.  Fighting  first  a  prolonged 
depression  and  then  a  war,  unavoidably 
shifted  responsibility  to  the  federal 
government.  The  shrinking  of  time  and 
distance  and  the  growing  interdepend- 
ence of  our  economic  lives  have  all  con- 


tributed to  a  centralization  of  authority 
at  the  national  capital. 

Yet,  deep  in  their  hearts,  the  Ameri- 
can people  instinctively  know  that  great 
concentration  of  power  is  an  evil  and 
a  dangerous  thing.  They  do  not  need 
to  have  it  proved. 

What  lies  behind  this  conviction? 
Basically,  it  is  an  intuitive  knowledge 
that,  sooner  or  later,  the  accumulation 
of  power  in  a  central  government  leads 
to  a  loss  of  freedom.  Once  power  is 
concentrated,  even  for  helpful  purposes, 
it  is  all  there,  in  one  package,  where  it 
can  be  grabbed  by  those  who  may  not 
be  helpful  in  its  use. 

If  power  is  diffused,  this  cannot  hap- 
pen. This  is  why  the  founders  of  our 
country  carefully  divided  power  be- 
tween the  state  and  federal  levels. 
Nothing  has  happened  in  the  mean- 
time to  call  in  question  the  validity 
of  this  arrangement. 

Our  traditional  federal-state  relation- 
ship, we  must  never  forget,  starts  with 
a  general  presumption  in  favor  of  state 
and  individual  rights.  Under  the  con- 
stitutional concept,  powers  not  granted 
to  the  federal  government  are  reserved 
to  the  states  or  to  the  people. 

Many  forces  work  toward  the  con- 
centration of  power  at  federal  level. 
It  somehow  seems  easier  to  impose  so- 
called  "progress"  on  localities  than  to 
wait  for  them  to  bring  it  about  them- 
selves. Raids  on  the  federal  treasury 
can  be  all  too  readily  accomplished  by 
an  organized  few  over  the  feeble  pro- 
tests of  any  apathetic  majority.  With 
more  and  more  activity  centered  in  the 
federal  government,  the  relationship 
between  the  costs  and  the  benefits  of 
government  programs  becomes  obscure. 
What  follows  is  the  voting  of  public 
money  without  having  to  accept  direct 
local  responsibility  for  higher  taxes. 

If  this  trend  continues,  the  states 
may  be  left  hollow  shells,  operating 
primarily  as  the  field  districts  of  federal 
departments  and  dependent  upon  the 
federal  treasury  for  their  support. 

It  has  been  truly  said  by  our  present 
Chief  Executive  that,  "The  federal  gov- 
ernment did  not  create  the  states  of  this 
Republic.  The  states  created  the  federal 
government  .  .  .  — if  the  states  lose 
their  meaning  our  entire  system  of  gov- 
ernment loses  its  meaning  and  the  next 


100 

Sunday,  October  12 

step  is  the  rise  of  the  centralized  na- 
tional state  in  which  the  seeds  of  autoc- 
racy can  take  root  and  grow." 

Those  are  strong  but  true  words. 

The  history  of  all  mankind  shows 
very  clearly  that  if  we  would  be  free — 
and  if  we  would  stay  free — we  must 
stand  eternal  watch  against  the  ac- 
cumulation of  too  much  power  in  gov- 
ernment. 

There  is  hardly  a  single  instance  in 
all  of  history  where  the  dictatorial  cen- 
tralization of  power  has  been  compatible 
with  individual  freedoms — where  it  has 
not  reduced  the  citizenry  to  the  status 
of  pawns  and  mere  creatures  of  the 
state.  God  forbid  that  this  should  hap- 
pen in  America.  Yet  I  am  persuaded 
that  the  continuation  of  the  trend  of  the 
past  twenty-five  years  could  make  us 
pallbearers  at  the  burial  of  the  states  as 
effective  units  of  government. 

The  drift  toward  centralization  of 
power  is  not  inevitable.  It  can  be 
slowed  down,  halted,  reversed. 

How?  By  state  and  local  governments 
insisting  that  theirs  is  the  responsibility 
for  problems  that  are  essentially  local 
and  state  problems — insisting  upon  this, 
with  the  knowledge  that  responsibility 
and  authority  go  hand  in  hand. 

Inevitably,  in  centralized  federal  pro- 
grams the  money  is  not  as  wisely  spent 
as  if  the  states  participated  financially. 

The  people  come  to  look  to  the  fed- 
eral government  as  the  provider,  at  no 
cost  to  them,  of  whatever  is  needful. 

The  truth  is  that  the  federal  govern- 
ment has  no  funds  which  it  does  not 
first,  in  some  manner,  take  from  the 
people.  A  dollar  cannot  make  the  round 
trip  to  Washington  and  back  without 
shrinking  in  the  process.  As  taxpayers 
we  need  to  recognize  these  facts;  pro- 
grams which  obscure  them  are  contrary 
to  public  interest. 

The  thought  that  the  federal  govern- 
ment is  wealthy  and  the  states  poverty- 
stricken  is  a  dangerous  illusion.  The 
federal  debt  is  now  eight  times  as  great 
as  the  combined  debt  of  the  forty-eight 
states.  It  is  difficult  for  the  states  to 
make  a  strong  case  for  assistance  from 
the  federal  government  when  anything 
the  federal  government  spends  must 
come  from  the  states. 

The  states  not  only  have  rights,  they 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

also  have  responsibilities,  and  they  have 
opportunities. 

In  the  last  analysis,  we  are  not  trying 
to  protect  one  government  entity  from 
another.  We  are  trying  to  protect  the 
rights  of  individual  people.  If  we  ever 
forget  this,  the  whole  process  of  govern- 
ment is  pointless. 

George  Washington  said:  "Govern- 
ment is  not  reason,  it  is  not  eloquence — 
it  is  force!  Like  fire,  it  is  a  dangerous 
servant  and  a  fearful  master!" 

"It  is  hardly  lack  of  due  process,"  said 
the  Supreme  Court,  "for  the  government 
to  regulate  that  which  it  subsidizes." 
But  we  must  remember  as  President 
Clark  has  counseled  us  that  a  planned 
and  subsidized  economy  weakens  initia- 
tive, discourages  industry,  destroys  char- 
acter, and  demoralizes  the  people. 

Our  people  must  remain  free.  Our 
economy  must  remain  free — free  of 
excessive  government  paternalism,  regi- 
mentation, and  control. 

As  a  nation,  we  are  strong.  With 
the  freedom  of  economic  enterprise  that 
we  possess,  we  are  able  to  produce  as 
much  industrial  goods  as  all  the  rest 
of  the  world  combined — even  though 
we  are  only  six  percent  of  the  world's 
people  and  possess  only  six  percent 
of  the  world's  land. 

These  abundant  blessings  have  come 
to  us  through  an  economic  system  which 
rests  largely  on  three  pillars: 

1.  Free  enterprise  .  .  .  the  right  to 
venture  ...  the  right  to  choose. 

2.  Private  property  ...  the  right  to 
own. 

3.  A  market  economy  ...  the  right 
to  exchange. 

Working  together,  we  can  maintain 
the  strength  of  these  three  pillars. 

There  are  some  in  our  midst,  never- 
theless, who  decry  free  enterprise,  who 
would  place  business,  agriculture,  and 
labor  in  a  government  strait  jacket. 

Our  economic  order  is  not  perfect, 
because  it  is  operated  by  imperfect  hu- 
man beings,  but  it  has  given  us  more 
of  the  good  things  of  life  than  any  other 
system.  The  fundamental  reason  is 
that  our  economy  is  free.  It  must  re- 
main free.  In  that  freedom  ultimately 
lies  our  basic  economic  strength. 

Let  us  admit  the  weaknesses  that  exist. 
Let  us  work  aggressively  to  correct  them. 
But  never  let  us  make  the  catastrophic 


ELDER  EZRA 

blunder  of  putting  chains  on  our  basic 
economic  freedom. 

Yes,  our  phenomenal  material  ad- 
vances have  been  the  fruit  of  our 
freedom — our  free  enterprise  system — 
our  American  way  of  life — our  God- 
given  freedom  of  choice. 

The  progress  of  the  future  must  stem 
from  this  same  basic  freedom. 

Yet  these  basic  American  beliefs, 
principles,  and  attitudes  are  threatened 
today  as  never  before. 

By  whom  are  they  threatened? 

They  are  threatened  by  well-meaning 
but  uninformed  people  who  see  the 
shortcomings  of  our  economic  system 
and  believe  they  can  legislate  them  out 
of  existence.  They  try  to  reach  the 
promised  land  by  passing  laws.  They 
do  not  understand  our  economic  system 
and  its  limitations.  They  would  load 
it  down  with  burdens  it  was  never  in- 
tended to  carry.  As  their  schemes  begin 
to  break  down,  more  and  more  controls 
must  be  supplied.  Patch  is  placed  upon 
patch,  regulation  is  added  to  regulation 
and  ultimately,  by  degrees,  freedom  is 
lost — without  our  desiring  to  lose  it 
and  without  our  knowing  why  or  how  it 
was  lost. 

Our  heritage  of  freedom  is  threatened 
by  another  group — self-seeking  men  who 
see  in  government  legislation  a  way  to 
obtain  special  privilege  for  themselves 
or  to  restrain  their  competitors.  They 
use  demagoguery  as  a  smokescreen  to  de- 
ceive. These  people  have  no  love  for 
freedom  or  enterprise.  They  would 
bargain  away  their  birthright  for  a  mess 
of  pottage.  They  would  learn  the 
value  of  freedom  only  after  it  was  gone. 

A  third,  still  much  smaller  group  is 
dedicated  to  the  overthrow  of  the  eco- 
nomic and  social  system  that  is  our 
tradition.  Their  philosophy  does  not 
stem  from  Jefferson,  but  is  foreign  to 
our  shores.  It  is  a  total  philosophy  of 
life,  atheistic,  and  utterly  opposed  to  all 
that  we  hold  dear  as  a  great  Christian 
nation.  These  men  understand  our 
system  thoroughly — and  they  hate  it 
thoroughly.  They  enlist  innocent  but 
willing  followers  from  the  uninformed 
and  the  unprincipled.  Through  rabble- 
rousing  and  demagoguery  they  play 
upon  the  economic  reverses  and  hard- 
ships of  the  unsuspecting.  They  prom- 
ise  the   impossible,   and   call  black 


AFT  BENSON  101 

white,  and  mislead  with  fallacies  mas- 
queraded as  truth. 

If  we  lose  our  freedoms,  it  will  be  to 
this  strange  and  unlike  coalition  of  the 
well-intentioned,  the  slothful,  and  the 
subversives. 

It  will  be  because  we  did  not  care 
enough — because  we  were  not  alert 
enough — because  we  were  too  apathetic 
to  take  note  while  the  precious  waters 
of  our  God-given  freedom  slipped — 
drop  by  drop — down  the  drain. 

Heaven  forbid  that  this  should  come 
to  pass! 

Let  us  remember  that  we  are  a  pros- 
perous people  today  because  of  a  free 
enterprise  system  founded  on  spiritual, 
not  material  values.  It  is  founded  on 
freedom  of  choice — free  agency — an 
eternal  God-given  principle. 

The  founding  fathers,  inspired  though 
they  were,  did  not  invent  the  priceless 
blessing  of  individual  freedom  and  re- 
spect for  the  dignity  of  man.  No,  that 
priceless  gift  to  mankind  sprang  from 
the  God  of  heaven  and  not  from  gov- 
ernment. Yes,  the  founding  fathers 
welded  together  the  safeguards  as  best 
they  could,  but  freedom  must  be  con- 
tinually won  to  be  enjoyed.  Let  us 
never  forget  these  facts. 

This  is  America — the  land  of  oppor- 
tunity! A  land  choice  above  all  other 
lands.    Let  us  keep  it  so! 

We,  here  in  America,  as  Theodore 
Roosevelt  said  a  half  century  ago,  "hold 
in  our  hands  the  hope  of  the  world,  the 
fate  of  the  coming  years,  and  shame 
and  disgrace  will  be  ours  if  in  our  eyes 
the  light  of  high  resolve  is  dimmed,  if 
we  trail  in  the  dust  the  golden  hopes 
of  men." 

With  God's  help  the  light  of  high 
resolve  in  the  eyes  of  the  American 
people  must  never  be  dimmed!  Our 
freedom  must — and  will — be  preserved. 

Yes  .  .  .  this  is  a  choice  land — choice 
above  all  others.  Blessed  by  the  Al- 
mighty, our  forebears  have  made  and 
kept  it  so.  It  will  continue  to  be  a  land 
of  freedom  and  liberty  as  long  as  we 
are  able  to  advance  in  the  light  of 
sound  and  enduring  principles  of  right. 
To  sacrifice  such  principles  for  momen- 
tary expediency — often  selfishly  moti- 
vated— is  to  endanger  our  noble  heritage 
and  is  unworthy  of  this  great  American 
people. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


October  12 


With  all  my  heart  I  love  this  nation. 
I  have  lived  and  traveled  abroad  just 
enough  to  make  me  appreciate  rather 
fully  what  we  have  here.  To  me,  this 
is  not  just  another  nation.  This  is  not 
just  one  of  a  family  of  nations.  This 
is  a  nation  with  a  great  mission  for  the 
benefit  and  blessing  of  liberty-loving 
people  everywhere.  It  is  my  firm  con- 
viction that  the  Constitution  of  this 
land  was  established  by  men  whom  the 
God  of  heaven  raised  up  unto  this  very 
purpose. 

The  days  ahead  are  sobering  and 
challenging  and  will  demand  the  faith, 
prayers,  and  loyalty  of  every  American. 
Our  challenge  is  to  keep  America  strong 


Third  Day 

and  free — strong  socially,  strong  eco- 
nomically, and  above  all,  strong  spirit- 
ually, if  our  way  of  life  is  to  endure. 
There  is  no  other  way.  Only  in  this 
course  is  there  safety  for  our  nation. 

God  grant  we  may  resolutely  follow 
this  course  in  humility  and  faith,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill 
will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


One  of  the  most  important  businesses 
in  the  world  is  the  business  of  holding 
conventions.  This  week  in  every  im- 
portant center  in  this  and  other  coun- 
tries men  and  women  will  be  assembling 
in  groups  to  discuss  their  problems,  ex- 
change ideas,  and  develop  techniques 
for  accomplishment.  I  have  had  an 
interesting  experience  during  these  past 
few  months  of  meeting  with  several 
occupational  groups  and  listening  to 
them  discuss  their  interests.  After  each 
experience  I  have  thought  how  much 
more  interesting,  and  how  tremendously 
more  important,  are  the  things  that  we 
discuss  in  the  Church,  where  we  meet 
and  talk  about  God  and  eternal  life 
and  how  to  build  character  and  godli- 
ness into  our  own  lives. 

All  education  is  primarily  about  our- 
selves. We  study  medicine  to  learn 
how  to  keep  ourselves  well  physically. 
Through  the  studies  of  the  mind — 
psychology  and  psychiatry — we  learn 
how  to  keep  ourselves  well  mentally. 
Agriculture  is  how  we  feed  ourselves. 
The  social  studies  teach  us  to  live  to- 
gether, successfully.  We  study  law  to 
try  to  keep  ourselves  out  of  trouble.  Then 
we  have  this  important  field  of  religion 
by  use  of  which  we  look  out  for  our 
spiritual  welfare. 

The  biggest  problems  involved  in  any 
of  these  fields  center  in  us.  Probably 
the  thing  that  we  know  less  about  than 


anything  else  in  the  world  is  our  own 
individual  selves.  You  can  ask  a  man 
many  questions  about  science,  invention, 
or  history,  and  he  will  answer  you. 
But  if  you  ask  him  to  write  out  an 
analysis  of  himself,  to  tell  you  about 
his  mind  and  soul  qualities,  or  if  you 
ask  him  how  he  became  the  kind  of 
man  he  is — you  may  not  get  very  good 
answers.  Or  suppose  that  you  ask  him 
where  he  came  from,  why  he  is  here, 
or  where  he  is  going.  What  kind  of 
answer  do  you  think  you  would  get? 
How  long  do  you  think  it  would  take 
someone  to  get  to  a  given  destination 
if  he  didn't  know  where  he  was  going 
or  why  the  journey  was  being  made? 
"The  Big  Three"  among  life's  questions 
are:  Whence?  Why?  Whither? 

The  old  Persian  philosopher  Omar 
Khayyam  wrestled  long  and  hard  with 
these  questions  without  getting  any  very 
satisfactory  answers.  He  summarizes 
his  conclusions  as  follows: 

I  came  like  Water,  and  like  Wind  I  go. 

Into  this  Universe,  and  why  not  knowing 
Nor  whence,   like  Water  willy-nilly 
flowing: 

And  out  of  it,  as  Wind  along  the  Waste, 
I  know  not  whither,  willy-nilly  blowing. 

Up  from  Earth's  Centre  through  the 
seventh  Gate 


ELDER  STER 

I  rose,  and  on  the  Throne  of  Saturn  sate, 
And  many  a  Knot  unravel'd  by  the 
Road; 

But  not  the  Master  Knot  of  Human 
Fate. 

There  was  a  Door  to  which  I  found  no 
Key: 

There  was  a  veil  past  which  I  could 
not  see. 

(Rubaiyat,  Stanza  28-29,  31-32.) 

Shakespeare's  Macbeth  gave  his  opin- 
ion of  the  importance  and  purpose  of 
existence  by  saying, 

"It  [Life]  is  a  tale  told  by  an  idiot, 
full  of  sound  and  fury,  signifying  noth- 
ing." (Macbeth,  Act  V,  Sc.  5.)  And 
Hamlet  added, 

"How  weary,  stale,  flat  and  unprofit- 
able, seem  to  me  all  the  uses  of  this 
world!  .  .  .  Tis  like  an  un weeded  gar- 
den, that  goes  to  seed;  things  rank  and 
gross  in  nature  possess  it  merely."  (Ham- 
let, Act  I,  Sc.  2.) 

What  I  would  like  to  say  this  morning 
is  that  some  of  the  most  stimulating 
ideas  ever  known  in  the  world  are  the 
thrilling  answers  to  the  big  three  given 
in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord. 

Our  lives  have  been  divided  into  three 
general  periods.  First  there  was  a  long 
pre-mortal  existence  when  we  lived  as 
the  spirit  children  of  God.  This  is 
followed  by  a  brief  mortality.  Then 
comes  an  everlasting  immortality.  There 
is  a  definite  purpose  to  be  accomplished 
in  each  of  these  periods,  and  our  suc- 
cess in  each  depends  upon  what  we 
did  in  those  periods  preceding.  In  this 
respect  we  might  compare  life  with  a 
three-act  play.  If  you  came  into  the 
theatre  after  the  first  act  had  been  fin- 
ished and  left  before  the  third  act  be- 
gan, you  might  not  understand  the 
play.  For  about  the  same  reasons  this 
life,  taken  by  itself,  simply  did  not  make 
sense  to  Hamlet,  Macbeth,  or  Omar 
Khayyam.  Yet  each  period  has  great 
significance. 

The  Lord  has  said,  "And  they  who 
keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added 
upon;  and  they  who  keep  not  their 
first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the 
same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep 
their  first  estate;  and  they  who  keep 
their  second  estate  shall  have  glory 
added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and 
ever."  (Abr.  3:26.) 


ING  W.  SILL  103 

In  order  to  make  an  intelligent  road 
map  for  the  accomplishment  of  our 
lives  we  need  to  know  what  happened 
in  the  first  act.  We  also  need  to  un- 
derstand the  tremendous  importance  of 
those  purposes  to  be  achieved  in  the 
second  act.  And  we  need  to  know  many 
things  about  the  third  act — and  we  need 
to  know  them  before  the  third  act  be- 
gins. I  have  a  relative  who  when  she 
reads  a  book  always  reads  the  last 
chapter  first.  She  wants  to  know  where 
she  is  going  before  she  gets  started. 
And  that  is  a  pretty  good  idea  to  apply 
to  our  own  future.  An  intelligent  "pre- 
view" of  the  third  act  can  be  all-im- 
portant to  the  final  outcome.  But  first, 
suppose  that  we  go  back  and  review 
briefly  the  first  act. 

In  the  pre-existence,  as  in  the  two 
other  periods,  Jesus  is  our  example. 
Nothing  could  be  plainer  from  the 
scriptures  than  that  the  life  of  Christ 
did  not  begin  at  Bethlehem,  nor  did  it 
end  on  Calvary.  It  is  equally  true  that 
our  lives  do  not  begin  or  end  within 
the  narrow  boundaries  of  mortality. 
The  first  things  we  knew  about  our- 
selves were  in  the  grand  council  in 
heaven  where  our  own  future  was  being 
discussed.  You  were  there;  God  was 
there;  all  the  spirit  children  of  God 
were  there.  Then  we  walked  by  sight. 
We  have  all  seen  God;  he  is  our  father; 
he  was  helping  to  prepare  us  for  the 
great  experiences  of  our  second  estate. 

All  life  is  primarily  a  preparation. 
We  prepare  for  school;  we  prepare  for 
marriage;  we  prepare  for  our  life's 
work;  we  prepare  for  death.  Our  pre- 
existence  was  also  a  preparation.  It 
was  the  childhood  of  our  immortality. 
We  had  come  to  a  place  in  our  prepara- 
tion where  all  young  people  always 
come,  where  it  is  desirable  for  them  to 
move  away  from  the  homes  of  their 
parents  where  they  can  be  by  them- 
selves. Even  though  their  newly- 
established  homes  may  lack  some  of  the 
advantages  of  the  homes  of  their  parents, 
it  is  still  important  for  them  to  learn  to 
stand  on  their  own  feet,  to  be  tested, 
and  proven  and  tried.  In  our  own  case, 
God  wanted  us  to  see  good  and  evil  side 
by  side  and  learn  to  make  the  right 
choices  on  our  initiative.  We  would 
have  far  more  freedom  in  this  if  we 


104 

Sunday,  October  12 

were  living  by  ourselves  than  in  the 
more  immediate  presence  of  God. 

In  the  grand  council  our  second 
estate  was  explained  to  us.  An  earth 
was  to  be  created  to  serve  as  our  new 
home.  We  were  to  be  given  wonderful, 
beautiful  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones 
without  which  we  could  not  have  a 
fulness  of  joy.  For  the  first  time  in 
our  existence  we  were  to  be  endowed 
with  the  powers  of  procreation.  We 
were  to  have  the  privilege  of  organizing 
a  family  to  last  through  time  and 
eternity.  This  should  be  bound  to- 
gether by  the  authority  of  the  priesthood 
and  sealed  and  sanctified  in  the  temple 
of  the  Lord.  We  were  to  have  the  op- 
portunity to  gain  experience  in  exercising 
our  free  agency  to  help  us  to  become 
sovereign  souls.  At  this  grand  council 
the  Savior  was  selected  and  ordained  to 
come  to  the  earth  and  redeem  us  from 
our  sins. 

Abraham,  in  telling  of  a  vision  that 
he  was  given  of  the  pre-existence  said, 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  and 
among  all  these  there  were  many  of  the 
noble  and  great  ones. 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them  and  he  said,  These  I  will  make 
my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those 
that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  said  unto  me:  Abra- 
ham, thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast 
chosen  before  thou  was  born."  (Abr. 
3:22-23.) 

Adding  to  Abraham's  statement  that 
there  were  many  noble  and  great  who 
were  ordained  to  positions  of  responsi- 
bility, Joseph  Smith  indicates  that  we 
were  also  ordained.  He  said,  "Every 
man  who  has  a  calling  to  minister  to 
the  inhabitants  of  this  earth  was  or- 
dained to  that  very  purpose  in  the  grand 
council  in  heaven  before  the  world  was." 
(DHC  6:364.) 

After  this  part  of  our  preparation  had 
been  completed,  we  are  told  that  "all 
the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy."  (Job 
38:7.)  I  feel  certain  that  if  we  knew 
now  what  we  understood  perfectly  then, 
we  would  be  willing  to  go  on  our  hands 
and  knees  through  life  for  the  oppor- 
tunity of  proving  ourselves  faithful  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

deserving  of  our  magnificent  oppor- 
tunities. 

Then  we  eame  into  our  second  estate 
through  the  miracle  of  birth.  There 
are  some  who  claim  to  have  difficulty 
in  believing  in  the  possibility  of  a 
literal  physical  bodily  resurrection.  It 
seems  to  me  that  no  one  should  have 
any  problem  believing  in  the  eternal 
life  of  the  body  who  can  believe  in  its 
creation  through  birth  to  begin  with — 
that  two  microscopic  cells  can  unite 
and  by  a  spontaneous  process  of  subdivi- 
sion create  this  great  masterpiece  which 
is  a  human  being,  including  body,  mind, 
and  personality. 

Referring  to  the  Savior's  birth,  Mat- 
thew said:  "Now  when  Jesus  was  born 
in  Bethlehem  of  Judea  in  the  days  of 
Herod  the  king,  behold  there  came  wise 
men  from  the  east  to  Jerusalem, 

"Saying,  Where  is  he  that  is  born 
King  of  the  Jews?  for  we  have  seen 
his  star  in  the  east,  and  are  come  to 
worship  him."  (Matt.  2:1-2.)  That 
is  the  question  that  wise  men  have  been 
asking  ever  since.  Ever  since  that  day 
nearly  two  thousand  years  ago,  wise 
men  have  been  inquiring,  "Where  can 
we  find  Jesus?  How  can  we  know  the 
Savior?"  For  "there  is  none  other 
name  given  whereby  man  can  be  saved." 
(D  &  C  18:23.)  The  journey  of  the 
wise  men  was  over  when  they  had 
found  the  king;  and  so  is  ours. 

Then  we  enter  the  third  act.  Most 
of  the  rewards  come  in  the  last  act. 
There  is  where  we  find  "the  happy  end- 
ings." That  is  also  where  we  discover 
the  tragedies,  depending  upon  the  kind 
of  life  we  have  lived  in  our  second 
estate. 

There  is  an  old  Greek  play  written 
around  the  fall  of  Athens.  It  tells  of 
a  Roman  general  who  had  captured  an 
Athenian  philosopher.  The  Roman  had 
told  the  Athenian  that  he  was  to  be 
put  to  death,  but  the  philosopher  did 
not  seem  greatly  disturbed  and  the 
Roman  thought  that  probably  he  didn't 
understand.  And  he  said  to  the 
Athenian  that  maybe  he  did  not  know 
what  it  meant  to  die.  The  Athenian  ex- 
pressed himself  that  he  understood  but 
he  felt  the  Roman  did  not  understand. 
He  said  to  his  captor: 

"Thou  dost  not  know  what  it  is  to 
die,  for  thou  dost  not  know  what  it  is 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


105 


to  live.  To  die  is  to  begin  to  live.  It 
is  to  end  all  stale  and  weary  work  and 
to  begin  a  nobler  and  a  better.  It  is  to 
leave  the  company  of  deceitful  knaves 
for  the  society  of  gods  and  goodness." 

That  is  our  proper  objective  for  the 
last  act.  Death  is  the  gateway  to  im- 
mortality. The  most  important  part  of 
life  is  death.  James  M.  Barrie's  little 
character,  Peter  Pan,  in  an  extremity 
cried  out  bravely,  "To  die  will  be  an 
awful  big  adventure."  Who  can  doubt 
that  it  will  be  so?  We  live  to  die,  and 
then  we  die  to  live. 

Yesterday  the  singing  mothers  inspired 
us  with  John  Howard  Payne's  immortal 
verse,  "Home,  Sweet  Home."  When 
this  song  was  written  in  1822,  John 
Howard  Payne  was  living  in  Paris,  far 
away  from  the  old  homestead  which  he 
knew  and  loved  so  well.  But  he  was  in 
the  process  of  preparing  to  go  home  for 
a  much-anticipated  holiday.  He  knew, 
as  we  know  that  the  happiest  holidays 
are  those  we  go  home  for.  To  go  home 
is  to  go  back  where  you  grew  up;  home 
is  where  mother  and  father  are;  and 
John  Howard  Payne  was  going  home. 
But  it  will  not  be  very  long  before  every 
one  of  us  will  also  be  going  home. 
We  will  also  be  going  back  to  where 
we  grew  up;  we  will  be  going  back  to 
where  God  is,  to  where  our  mothers, 
fathers,  and  families  are. 

After  the  resurrection  we  will  have 
these  wonderful  bodies,  celestialized  and 
glorified,  with  quickened  senses,  ampli- 
fied powers  of  perception  and  vastly 
increased  capacity  for  understanding, 
love,  and  happiness.  Not  only  will  our 
bodies  be  immortal  and  celestial  but 
our  personalities  will  be  immortal 
and  celestial  also.  If  we  have  properly 
prepared  during  our  second  estate,  then 
with  what  enthusiasm  we  will  sing  with 
John  Howard  Payne,  "There  is  no  place 
like  home." 

I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  my 
testimony  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  been  restored  to  the  earth  with  the 
authority  to  administer  in  all  of  the 
ordinances  having  to  do  with  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom.  A  great  flood  of  new 
knowledge  has  recently  come  into  the 
world,  including  three  great  volumes  of 
new  scripture  outlining  in  every  detail 
the  answers  to  the  most  important  ques- 
tions of  our  lives.   May  God  help  us  to 


understand  and  live  those  answers,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  many  of  you  know,  and  all  should 
know,  these  services  have  been  on  the 
air  by  radio  and  television  all  through- 
out these  western  states.  Many  will  go 
off  promptly  at  12  o'clock,  and  we 
should  like  them  to  hear  the  strains  of 
music  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  if 
we  continue  to  give  some  notices  and 
expressions  of  appreciation,  they  might 
miss  it,  so  we  will  change  our  usual 
order  of  business  and  have  our  closing 
song  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the 
present  time:  "How  Beautiful  Upon  The 
Mountains,"  conducted  by  Richard  P. 
Condie. 

The  closing  prayer,  following  some 
expressions,  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Glenn  E.  Nielson,  president  of  the  Big 
Horn  Stake. 

Selection  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
"How  Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  glad  our  listening  audience 
heard  that  wonderful  anthem,  so  in- 
spirationally  and  artistically  rendered. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  bring  to  a 
conclusion  this  sixth  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  We  express 
our  sincere  appreciation  to  the  owners 
and  managers  of  the  many  television 
and  radio  stations  who  have  offered 
their  facilities  to  us.  We  are  grateful 
for  this  outstanding  public  service  so 
generously  extended.  We  are  grateful 
also  for  the  attendance  of  all  who  are 
present  in  the  Tabernacle,  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  other 
gatherings  where  this  Conference  is  seen 
and  heard. 

We  desire  to  acknowledge  the  pres- 
ence this  morning  of  prominent  persons, 
and  I  am  sure  all  will  be  pleased  to 
know  who  many  of  these  are,  for  we 
appreciate  their  interest,  not  in  just 
attending  but  in  the  welfare  and  ad- 


106  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  12 

vancement  of  the  Church:  Senator 
Arthur  V.  Watkins;  Senator  Wallace  F. 
Bennett;  Congressman  William  A.  Daw- 
son; Congressman  Henry  Aldous  Dixon; 
Governor  George  Dewey  Clyde;  J. 
Berkeley  Larsen,  Lt.  Governor  of  Idaho; 
Lamont  Toronto,  Secretary  of  State; 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  president  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University;  Dr.  Homer 
Durham,  vice  president  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah;  Dr.  Daryl  Chase,  president 
of  the  Utah  State  University;  Dr.  John 
L.  Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College; 
Dr.  E.  Allen  Bateman,  State  superin- 
tendent of  Public  Instruction;  Dr.  M. 
Lynn  Bennion,  superintendent  of  Salt 
Lake  City  Schools;  Mayor  Adiel  F. 
Stewart  of  Salt  Lake  City;  Sherman  B. 
Christensen,  Judge  of  the  Federal  Court; 
Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin,  president  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Utah;  and  perhaps  others 
whom  we  have  not  seen,  nor  are  able 
to  see. 

We  appreciate  your  attendance  and 
interest,  and  that  of  all  others  who  have 
shared  in  this  inspirational  gathering. 
We  have  received  greetings  from  the 
president  of  the  Western  Canadian 
Mission.  He  says:  "Reception  is  excel- 
lent. Sincere  expression  of  love  from 
Western  Canadian  members."  Signed, 
President  Parley  A.  Arave. 

The  beautiful  flowers  which  you  see 
arranged  on  the  rostrum  and  pulpit  have 
come  from  two  countries  far  removed 
from  each  other — South  Africa  and 
Hawaii.  The  flowers  from  South  Africa 
are  several  varieties  of  the  protea,  the 
national  flower  of  South  Africa.  These 
flowers  are  unique  inasmuch  as  South 
Africa  is  the  only  place  in  the  world 
where  they  are  found,  and  they  are  as 
fresh  this  morning  as  when  they  left 
South  Africa.  Brother  Glen  G.  Fisher, 
president  of  the  South  African  Mission, 
informs  us  that  the  branch  Relief  So- 
ciety sisters  throughout  the  South 
African  Mission  have  put  on  cake  sales 
and  made  individual  contributions,  and 
have  manifested  a  keen  interest  in  this 
project  in  order  that  they  might  send 
these  rare  flowers  for  our  enjoyment 


Third  Day 

during  Conference.  The  entire  South 
African  Mission  membership  will  have 
more  than  common  interest  in  our  Con- 
ference, since  at  this  very  time  they  are 
enjoying  a  visit  from  Elder  Harold  B. 
Lee  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
Sister  Lee  is  accompanying  him  on  this 
tour. 

The  other  flowers,  the  beautiful  red 
antheriums,  come  to  us,  we  are  informed 
by  President  Jay  A.  Quealy,  Jr.  of  the 
Honolulu  Stake,  with  the  love  and 
greetings  from  the  members  of  the  Hon- 
olulu Stake.  With  all  our  hearts  we 
express  appreciation  and  thanks  to  the 
members  of  the  Church  in  these  far-off 
lands  for  these  lovely  flowers  bearing 
their  messages  of  loyalty,  affection,  and 
greetings.  Our  thoughts  and  best  wishes 
will  be  with  them  as  we  enjoy  the  beau- 
ty of  these  flowers  this  October  Confer- 
ence. 

We  desire  to  make  mention  of  the 
General  Priesthood  Meeting  which  was 
the  fifth  session  of  this  General  Con- 
ference. This  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Tabernacle  last  evening  with  overflow 
meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Bar- 
ratt  Hall,  and  was  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  to  members  of  the  Priesthood 
assembled  in  139  Church  buildings  from 
coast  to  coast  and  in  Canada.  There 
were  present  or  listening  over  direct  wire 
from  the  Tabernacle  38,403  members 
of  the  Priesthood. 

We  have  heard  the  singing  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting  and  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  We  express  appreciation 
to  these  men  and  women  who  give  so 
generously  of  their  time  and  talents, 
and  we  join  unitedly  in  praying  that 
they  will  have  outstanding  success  in 
the  approaching  Concert  Tour  that  they 
are  about  to  make. 

We  shall  now  be  dismissed  by  Elder 
Glenn  E.  Nielson  offering  the  closing 
prayer. 


President  Glenn  E.  Nielson  of  the  Big 
Horn  Stake  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  promptly  at  2:00  p.m. 
Sunday  afternoon,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  fur- 
nished the  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  in  the  con- 
cluding and  seventh  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  For  those 
who  are  unable  to  enter  the  building, 
we  announce  that  these  services  are 
being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting, 
and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "To  Music," 
with  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 


by  Elder  Lawrence  D.  Olpin,  president 
of  the  Lorin  Farr  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  "To  Music,"  Jay  E. 
Welch  conducting. 

Elder  Lawrence  D.  Olpin,  president  of 
the  Lorin  Farr  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Lawrence  D.  Olpin,  president 
of  the  Lorin  Farr  Stake,  has  just  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Mountains,"  conducted  by  Richard  P. 
Condie. 

Our  first  speaker,  following  the 
Choir,  will  be  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting,  sang  "Mountains." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  first 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Through  this  conference  I  have  been 
feeling  a  great  warm  surge  of  grati- 
tude— gratitude  that  I  belong  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  gratitude  that  there  has  come  to 
me,  in  spite  of  my  limitations,  the 
blessing  of  service  and  the  blessing  of 
learning  to  know  and  to  love  so  many 
of  you,  to  feel  your  strength,  understand 
your  purpose,  and  observe  your  dedica- 
tion. 

I  have  been  grateful  for  the  marvel- 
ous sermons,  the  great  themes  of  truth 
which  have  been  here  uttered.  I  was 
very  grateful  this  morning  as  these 


strong  and  forthright  and  inspired  mes- 
sages went  out  to  the  world. 

Last  night  I  read  on  the  editorial  page 
of  the  Deseret  News  an  account  of  a 
survey,  actually  a  clinical  research  in- 
quiry, of  a  number  of  men  incarcerated 
in  the  Utah  State  prison  as  compared 
with  an  equal  number  outside  the  prison 
who  were  of  the  same  general  back- 
ground as  to  age,  intellect,  social,  and 
economic  circumstances,  etc.  The  report 
re-emphasized  strongly  the  vital  im- 
portance to  the  well-being  of  young 
people  of  a  home  where  love  and  inter- 
est are  shown,  where  there  are  fair  rules 


108 

Sunday,  October  12 

consistently  enforced,  where  there  is  a 
religious  atmosphere  in  the  home  and 
religious  activity  outside  it,  and  where 
parents  set  the  proper  affirmative  exam- 
ple. 

Since  I  read  the  article  I  have  been 
even  more  grateful  for  the  home  I  grew 
up  in,  humble  as  it  was  in  terms  of  mate- 
rial things;  for  a  loving  father,  who  was 
called  home  in  our  infancy;  for  a  won- 
derful mother  and  brothers  and  sisters 
through  whose  love,  unselfishness,  and 
co-operative  effort  I  came  to  enjoy  some 
blessings  that  they  did  not  have  them- 
selves. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  know  something 
about  some  of  the  problems  that  exist 
in  the  world  and  that  I  have  the  privi- 
lege of  counseling,  weeping,  and  sym- 
pathizing with  some  of  the  people  who 
have  them. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  kind  of  moun- 
tains that  the  choir  has  just  sung  about 
(as  well  as  for  other  mountains)  and 
that  God  blesses  us  with  strength 
enough  to  climb  if  we  are  humble 
enough. 

Recently  I  have  been  thinking  about 
three  great  areas  of  problems  which 
actually  encompass  the  whole  of  hu- 
man experience,  the  whole  of  an  indi- 
vidual's life,  thinking  about  them  in 
terms  of  the  Church  program  and  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  We  have  a  lot 
of  youth  problems  and  we  know  it,  dif- 
ficulties in  many  fields  of  youth  be- 
havior and  experience.  Then  there  is 
in  our  communities,  and  the  nation,  a 
great  problem  with  unhappy  adults — 
broken  homes,  marriages,  and  lives;  in- 
creasing incidence  of  moral  decadence, 
of  alcoholism;  increasing  prison  incar- 
cerations and  so  forth.  There  is  a  third 
problem  that  I  am  not  sure  we  have 
thought  much  about  (perhaps  in  the 
Church  we  do  not  know  as  much  about 
it  as  a  problem  as  some  do),  and  that 
is  the  field  of  geriatrics,  the  subdivision 
of  medicine  dealing  with  the  elderly  and 
the  aging,  many  of  whom  lose  status 
in  the  family,  community,  and  business 
with  advancing  age. 

Some  recent  experiences  have  per- 
mitted me  the  privilege  of  observing 
and  participating  in  activities  having  to 
do  with  some  of  these  problems.  Out 
of  those  experiences  I  have  come  with 
increased  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Father  that  in  the  graciousness  and 
goodness  of  his  love  we  have  been 
blessed  with  the  principles,  programs, 
and  inspiration  which  can  preserve  us 
from  the  most  serious  of  these  problems, 
help  us  overcome  them  to  the  measure 
we  find  ourselves  in  them,  and  lead  us, 
through  God's  good  gifts,  to  the  happi- 
ness here  and  the  eternal  opportunity 
hereafter  which  we  are  meant  to  enjoy. 
There  is  no  occasion  today  to  do  more 
than  recognize  the  existence  of  the  prob- 
lems and  to  testify  of  my  deep  assur- 
ance that  through  proper  parenthood 
and  leadership  and  instruction,  and 
through  a  willingness  to  learn,  hearken, 
and  participate,  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  the  great  programs  of  the 
Church  will  help  us  avoid  or  overcome 
most  of  the  difficulties  which  beset  us. 

There  is  a  story  in  point  which  I 
thought  of  as  I  read  last  night.  A  young 
man  who  had  lost  his  father  in  his 
earliest  years  went  to  an  elderly  medical 
man  who  had  been  a  close  friend  of  his 
father  and  asked  the  doctor  what  kind 
of  man  his  father  had  been.  The  old 
doctor  answered  the  question  with  a 
question:  "Suppose  you  could  have 
chosen  your  father — that  is,  what  kind 
of  man  he  would  be — what  would  your 
choice  have  been?" 

The  young  man  replied  that  he  would 
have  chosen  one  who  was  courageous 
and  forthright  and  true;  a  kind,  wise, 
and  loving  man;  a  worshiper,  worker, 
and  servant  of  God.  He  described 
clearly  and  forcefully  an  ideal  father, 
then  asked:  "Doctor,  is  that  the  sort 
of  man  my  father  was?" 

Said  the  doctor.  "As  your  father's 
friend,  let  me  ask  you  another  question. 
Is  that  the  sort  of  man  you  have  chosen 
to  be  the  father  of  your  own  children?" 
The  young  man  said,  "With  all  my 
thinking  about  life  and  its  responsibili- 
ties, I  confess  I  have  not  thought  about 
this  important  matter  in  just  that  way 
before.  Though  I  had  nothing  to  do 
with  choosing  my  own  father,  I  have 
everything  to  do  with  choosing  what 
sort  of  father  my  own  children  shall 
have.  I  give  you  my  word  that  I  shall 
think  about  and  act  upon  it  from  now 
on." 

My  wonderful  young  friends,  in  the 
Church  and  out  of  it,  you  face  real 
challenges  and  great  pressures,  but  the 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


109 


objectives  and  opportunities  before  you 
are  marvelous.  When  I  look  at  you,  I 
do  not  see  in  you  the  leaders  of  tomor- 
row, only;  I  see  what  you  now  are,  the 
boy  friends  and  girl  friends,  the  young 
husbands  and  wives  of  today.  In  your 
hands,  stretching  ahead  before  you, 
there  are  important  occasions  for  de- 
cision and  choice,  decisions  that  will 
affect  your  happiness  in  this  world  and 
your  eternal  future. 

Do  you  make  negative  judgments 
about  the  parents,  leaders  and  teachers 
you  now  have?  Have  you  thought 
enough  about  what  kind  of  parents, 
leaders  and  teachers  you  are  going  to 
be?  These  are  not  far-off  challenges, 
they  are  upon  you;  in  less  time  than 
you  can  now  conceive  these  blessings 
and  burdens  will  be  yours. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  sat  in  an  audi- 
torium in  the  East  with  some  of  the 
leading  businessmen  in  America  and 
heard  Brother  Benson  discuss  the  Youth 
Fitness  Program  now  underway  across 
the  land.  As  the  viewpoints  of  the 
Church  were  so  impressively  presented 
I  was  again  moved  with  gratitude  that 
through  revelation  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us  with  the  principles  and  the  programs 
which  can  lead  us  to  effective,  partici- 
pating citizenship  in  the  community  and 
in  the  kingdom;  which,  whatever  kind 
of  home  we  came  from,  can  lead  us  to 
be  the  sort  of  father  or  mother  we  would 
have  been  pleased  to  choose  had  we  had 
the  opportunity. 

Without  the  intention  or  occasion  to 
be  detailed,  may  I  mention  a  principle 
or  two  given  us  by  the  Lord  for  our 
well-being,  physically,  intellectually, 
emotionally,  socially,  and  spiritually. 

Consider  the  understanding  the  Lord 
has  given  us  as  to  the  nature  of  this 
physical  body  which  houses  our  spirit. 
".  .  .  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul 
of  man."  (D  &  C  88:15.)  "For  man  is 
spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and 
spirit  and  element,  inseparably  con- 
nected, receive  a  fulness  of  joy. 

"The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of 
God;  yea,  man  is  the  tabernacle  of  God, 
even  temples;  and  whatsoever  temple  is 
defiled,  God  shall  destroy  that  temple." 
(Ibid.,  93:33,  35.) 

I  am  grateful  to  understand  that  my 
physical  body  is  an  eternal,  non-evil 
component  of  my  eternal  soul,  and  that 


I  have,  therefore,  a  duty  to  honor  and 
respect  and  care  for  it,  and  to  refrain 
from  knowingly  imposing  upon  it  any 
treatment  or  substances  deleterious  to  it. 
While  I  could  not  choose  nor  govern 
the  condition  of  the  body  into  which 
I  came,  I  have  the  responsibility  to  give 
it  the  best  care  I  can,  and  if  I  do  not 
I  am  acting  in  derogation  of  a  great 
gift  of  God. 

For  some  time  I  have  wanted  to  put 
into  the  record  a  statement  by  Thomas 
Edison  in  his  autobiography,  made  in 
the  twilight  of  his  productive  life: 

"The  useful  man  never  leads  the  easy, 
sheltered,  knockless,  unshocked  life.  At 
[age]  thirty-six  he  ought  to  be  prepared 
to  deal  with  realities,  and  after  that 
until  he  is  sixty  he  should  be  able  to 
handle  them  with  a  steadily  increasing 
efficiency. 

"Subsequently,  if  he  has  not  injured 
his  body  by  excess  indulgence  in  any 
of  the  narcotics  (and  by  this  term  I 
mean  liquor,  tobacco,  tea  and  coffee), 
and  if  he  has  not  eaten  to  excess,  he 
very  likely  may  continue  to  be  achiev- 
ingly  efficient  up  to  his  eightieth  birth- 
day, and  in  some  cases  until  his 
ninetieth." 

The  testimony  of  the  times  corrob- 
orates what  Edison  said,  and  what  the 
Lord  told  us — information  that  has  been 
in  our  hands  for  more  than  sixscore 
years. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  us  with  knowl- 
edge that  we  are  under  obligation  to 
develop  our  minds,  for  "The  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence,"  (Ibid.,  93:36)  and 
"It  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be  saved 
in  ignorance."  (Ibid.,  131:6.)  He  has 
given  particular  emphasis  to  spiritual 
truth,  but  in  addition  to  charging  the 
early  brethren  to  teach  one  another  the 
doctrines  of  the  kingdom,  he  also  in- 
structed them  to  prepare  themselves  in 
a  wide  field  of  knowledge,  including 
languages,  history,  and  law.  In  the 
Church  there  are  the  principles  and 
program  which  can  lead  us  to  the  pos- 
session of  minds  that  are  clean  and 
honest,  educated,  trained,  controlled, 
creative,  productive,  and  useful. 

We  have  received  the  word  of  the 
Lord  that  ".  .  .  men  are,  that  they  might 
have  joy,"  (2  Nephi  2:25)  and  we  know 
that  there  is  joy  in  responsible  relation- 
ships with  our  fellow  men.   As  this  is 


110 

Sunday,  October  12 

true  of  other  men,  it  is  especially  true 
of  our  own  families.  The  family,  sealed 
together  under  the  law  of  God,  is  the 
eternal  unit,  and  our  own  high  possi- 
bilities in  the  eternities  are  contingent 
upon  our  relationship  with  our  family, 
as  well  as  with  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
his  other  children. 

Underlying  all  that  has  been  re- 
vealed to  us  the  Lord  has  given  us  to 
know  that  we  are  his  children,  that  life 
is  purposeful  and  meaningful,  and  that 
we  are  blessed  with  the  possibility  of 
a  high  destiny.  I  thank  God  that  I 
know  these  things,  and  I  pray  that  he 
will  bless  us  to  understand  that  though 
we  may  have  partaken  of  some  of  the 
problems  of  the  world,  though  we  may 
have  undergone  some  of  the  tragedies 
of  the  world,  there  is  hope  and  answer 
for  us  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Though  we  could  not  choose  or  direct 
in  our  earliest  days  the  home  we  grew 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

up  in  or  the  parents  who  bore  us,  yet 
we  can  do  something  about  the  sort 
of  parents  we  are  or  will  be,  and  about 
the  home  our  children  will  grow  up  in. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  good  things 
he  has  blessed  us  with,  and  pray  that 
we  may  have  the  wisdom  to  be  stead- 
fast and  faithful  and  to  do  that  which 
will  perpetuate  for  those  who  are  to 
come  the  blessings  which  the  Lord  has 
made  available  through  the  principles 
and  programs  and  inspired  leadership 
of  his  great  Church. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks,  member  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  has  just 
addressed  us.  We  shall  now  be  favored 
to  listen  to  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  feel  very  grateful,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, for  the  privilege  that  is  mine  to  be 
associated  with  you  in  this  great  con- 
ference, and  my  heart  has  been  made 
to  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  messages 
we  have  received  and  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne.  Not  only  that, 
but  I  have  been  made  very  happy  to 
greet  so  many  of  you  on  the  block  and 
in  the  building  whom  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  meet  as  I  travel  through  the 
Church  and  visit  the  various  stakes  of 
Zion.  I  have  a  profound  respect  and 
appreciation  for  the  faith  of  you  Latter- 
day  Saints,  for  the  great  work  you  are 
accomplishing  in  your  own  localities. 
I  never  return  from  a  conference  but 
what  I  say  to  my  good  wife,  "My,  the 
Saints  are  wonderful,"  and  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  I  am  a  part  of  this  great  or- 
ganization. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  spend 
much  of  my  life  in  the  missionary  work 
of  the  Church.  I  imagine  today  that 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  radio  and 
television  stations  there  will  be  many 
listening  in  who  are  not  yet  members 
of  this  Church.  I  am  sure  they  will 
be  some  day  when  they  know  what  we 


know  about  it.  I  have  always  said  that 
there  is  not  an  honest  man  or  an  hon- 
est woman  in  this  world  who  really 
loves  the  Lord  who  would  not  join  this 
Church  if  he  knew  what  it  was. 

Those  of  us  who  have  had  missionary 
experience  know  how  our  hearts  have 
been  made  to  rejoice  when  we  find  peo- 
ple who  really  love  the  Lord  and  who 
want  to  serve  him  the  way  the  Lord 
wants  to  be  served,  and  they  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  Sometimes  we 
find  people  who  have  looked  for  years 
and  years  to  find  the  truth.  I  had  a 
letter  from  a  man  recently,  a  prominent 
attorney  who  had  investigated  many 
churches,  and  when  he  found  "Mor- 
monism,"  as  it  is  known  to  him,  he 
said  he  had  found  an  answer  to  all  of 
his  seeking.  And  some  years  ago,  in  my 
missionary  work,  we  brought  an  attor- 
ney into  the  Church.  He  was  an  in- 
telligent man.  We  asked  him  to  talk 
in  one  of  our  conferences,  and  he  said 
something  like  this — we  had  asked  him 
to  tell  what  he  had  found  in  Mormon- 
ism  that  appealed  to  him.  He  said, 
"If  you  have  hunted  for  something  all 
your  life  until  you  decided  it  did  not 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


111 


exist,  and  then  you  just  happen  to 
stumble  on  to  it,  you  do  not  need 
anybody  to  tell  you  that  you  have  found 
it,  do  you?"  He  said,  "That  is  what 
I  did  when  I  found  Mormonism  and 
the  thing  about  it  that  is  most  wonder- 
ful to  me  is  the  fact  that  the  more  I 
know  about  it  the  more  wonderful  it 
becomes." 

I  have  a  testimony  here,  copied  from 
a  letter  from  a  lady  who  wrote  in  to 
the  Bureau  of  Information  for  informa- 
tion about  the  Church.  She  said  she 
had  hunted  for  fifty-three  years  to  find 
the  truth,  and  then  she  told  about  the 
various  institutions  and  churches  she 
had  investigated,  and  after  getting  our 
literature,  she  finally  joined  the  Church, 
and  after  so  doing  this  is  what  she 
wrote: 

"I  now  have  a  serenity  and  com- 
posure and  inner  strength  and  an  inward 
joy  which  I  never  before  possessed.  Do 
all  souls  receiving  enlightenment  exclaim 
within  their  silent  heart,  feeling  com- 
passion for  a  blind,  groping,  and  griev- 
ing world,  'O  suffering  world,  I  come. 
I  come.' " 

The  missionaries  find  ample  compen- 
sation for  the  great  work  they  are  doing 
when  they  see  honest  souls  who  seek 
after  righteousness  brought  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  through  their  instru- 
mentality. The  Lord  said  to  the  early 
elders  of  the  Church  that  if  they  should 
labor  all  their  days  and  bring  save  one 
soul  unto  him,  how  great  would  be 
their  joy  with  that  soul  in  the  kingdom 
of  the  Father. 

I  want  to  bear  you  witness  that  many 
of  us  have  great  joy  in  the  companion- 
ship of  those  to  whom  it  has  been  our 
privilege  to  bring  the  restored  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  doing  a  great  work  in  providing 
missionaries.  It  is  the  most  unselfish 
movement  I  think  this  world  has  ever 
known.  There  is  no  thought  of  any 
monetary  compensation.  Sacrifices  are 
made  by  young  and  old  alike  in  order 
to  carry  the  gospel  to  those  who  are 
yet  in  darkness,  and  we  invite  everyone 
to  join  with  us. 

Sometimes  I  wonder  if  we  have  in- 
vited our  neighbors  and  our  friends  to 
become  a  part  of  us,  and  if  we  do,  then 
we  will  find  the  joy  that  comes  in  being 


instruments  in  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in 
carrying  the  truth  to  them. 

President  McKay  indicated  today  that 
we  are  all  missionaries.  In  fact,  he  has 
told  us  that  each  of  us  should  be  a  mis- 
sionary, and  while  we  are  not  all  called 
and  set  apart  to  go  from  door  to  door, 
we  are  called  by  the  Lord,  for  he  said: 
"Let  every  man  who  is  warned,  warn 
his  neighbor,"  (See  D  &  C  88:81)  and 
that  is  a  call  from  the  Lord,  and  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  asked  that  each  of  us 
should  be  a  missionary  and  try  to  bring 
someone  into  the  Church. 

I  repeated  that  request  in  a  stake  con- 
ference a  few  months  ago,  and  a  few 
weeks  thereafter,  I  received  a  two-page 
typewritten  letter  from  a  young  man 
who  was  in  that  conference.  He  was  a 
son  of  the  stake  president.  He  was  only 
there  visiting  on  an  assignment.  He 
said,  "Brother  Richards,  I  heard  you  re- 
quest each  of  us  to  try  to  bring  someone 
into  the  Church.  I  believed  that  you 
meant  me,  so  I  wrote  my  wife  and  said, 
'When  I  come  home  I  have  a  proposi- 
tion to  make  to  you,' "  and  the  pro- 
position was  that  they  should  bring 
some  family  into  the  Church.  Then  he 
said  to  his  wife,  "The  young  man  that 
I  work  with  in  the  office  seems  to  be 
quite  a  fine  man,  and  if  you  are  willing 
I  will  invite  him  and  his  wife  to  our 
home  and  we  will  have  them  for 
supper." 

Well,  of  course  when  the  supper  was 
over  they  had  to  talk  about  something, 
and  you  know  what  they  talked  about, 
and  the  letter  was  written  to  tell  me 
the  joy  he  and  his  wife  had  because 
that  couple  had  now  joined  the  Church. 
I  tell  you,  it  will  bring  great  joy  into 
the  lives  of  people  when  they  know 
what  the  Church  is. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  today  that  my 
testimony  is  such  that  I  believe  we  live 
in  the  great  day  of  fulfilment.  As  I 
think  of  the  history  of  the  past,  two 
great  events  stand  out  paramount  above 
all  others  in  religious  history,  and  all 
the  prophets  have  looked  to  those  days 
and  testified  of  them.  The  first  was  the 
coming  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  you  will  remember  that  when  he 
came,  he  took  the  Holy  Scriptures  to 
prove  to  the  people  that  he  had  come 
in  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  proph- 
ets.  You  remember  his  statement  as  he 


112 

Sunday,  October  12 

walked  along  the  way  toward  Emmaus 
with  two  of  his  disciples  following  his 
resurrection,  and  their  eyes  were  holden 
that  they  did  not  recognize  him.  After 
he  had  heard  what  they  had  to  say  and 
seeing  that  they  did  not  realize  what 
his  mission  was,  he  said,  "O  fools,  and 
slow  of  heart  to  believe  all  that  the 
prophets  have  spoken,"  (Luke  24:25) 
and  beginning  with  Moses  and  the 
prophets,  he  showed  them  how  that  in 
all  things  the  prophets  had  testified  of 
him.  Then  he  opened  their  under- 
standing that  they  might  understand 
the  scriptures  for  all  the  prophets  had 
looked  to  that  great  event. 

The  second  great  event  is  when  he 
shall  come  in  power  and  great  glory  in 
the  latter  days,  to  reign  as  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  and  all  of  the 
prophets  have  looked  to  our  day.  I 
wonder  sometimes  if  we  are  mindful 
enough  in  order  to  interpret  the  prom- 
ises of  the  prophets.  I  think  of  the 
words  of  the  Savior  when  he  said: 

"Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them 
ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they 
are  they  which  testify  of  me."  (John 
5:39.) 

I  like  to  look  upon  the  scriptures  as 
a  blueprint  that  shows  the  things  that 
God  intended  to  do,  and  I  think  it  is  a 
wonderful  thing  to  know  what  the 
prophets  have  had  to  say,  but  I  think 
it  is  more  wonderful  to  live  in  the  day 
of  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  of  the 
prophets.  The  Savior  puts  his  stamp 
of  approval  upon  the  necessity  of  know- 
ing the  scriptures.  He  said  to  the 
Pharisees  who  endeavored  to  catch  him 
in  his  words:  "Do  you  not  therefore  err 
because  ye  know  not  the  scriptures?" 
(Mark  12:24.) 

If  we  knew  the  scriptures,  we  would 
understand  them.  Let  me  give  you  an 
illustration.  While  I  was  still  the  Pre- 
siding Bishop,  we  brought  the  plans  of 
the  great  Los  Angeles  Temple  to  show 
to  the  First  Presidency.  There  were 
eighty-five  pages,  and  we  did  not  have 
them  complete — the  electrical  work  and 
the  heating  facilities  were  not  done — 
eighty-five  pages  about  five  feet  long 
and  three  feet  wide.  It  was  glorious  to 
look  upon  those  plans  and  see  that 
temple,  but  not  a  hole  had  been  dug 
in  the  ground.  Compare  that  with 
when  we  went  to  the  dedication,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

in  the  evening  when  the  floodlights 
were  turned  on  that  magnificent  build- 
ing, it  was  just  as  if  some  ethereal  thing 
had  been  dropped  down  from  heaven. 
I  thank  God  that  it  is  my  privilege  to 
live  in  the  day  of  fulfilment  of  the 
things  that  the  prophets  have  foretold 
for  the  latter  days  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

I  give  you  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Peter.   He  said: 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shin- 
eth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day  dawn, 
and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts: 
"Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy 
of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  in- 
terpretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men 
of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the 
Holy  Ghost."  (II  Peter  1:19-21.) 

If  you  will  think  about  that  for  a 
minute,  and  then  consider  the  words  of 
Isaiah  where  he  said  that  the  Lord  had 
proclaimed  the  end  from  the  beginning, 
then  the  prophets  have,  as  it  were, 
drawn  a  blueprint  of  what  the  Lord 
intended  to  do,  and  we  live  now  in  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 
that  has  been  referred  to  in  this  con- 
ference, for  the  Apostle  Paul  said  that 
the  Lord  had  revealed  unto  him  the 
mystery  of  his  will, 

"That  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Ful- 
ness of  Times  he  might  gather  together 
in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which 
are  in  heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth; 
even  in  him."  (Ephesians  1:10.) 

I  want  to  say  unto  you  that  no  other 
people  have  a  program  of  uniting  all 
things  which  are  in  heaven  and  which 
are  on  earth.  We  understand  this  in 
the  great  work  that  is  being  done  by 
the  living  for  the  dead,  and  that  brings 
us  to  another  great  event  that  was  to 
transpire  in  the  latter  days,  to  which 
Brother  Romney  referred  this  morning — 
the  coming  of  Elijah  the  Prophet  to 
turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children 
to  their  fathers,  lest  he  come  and  smite 
the  earth  with  a  curse.  (Mai.  4:5-6.) 
Who  knows  anything  about  that  great 
program  of  uniting  the  children  on  the 
earth  with  their  parents  who  have  gone 
beyond  except  the   Church  of  Jesus 


ELDER  LEGRA 

Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  the  Lord 
has  revealed  these  great  truths  in  our 
day? 

Referring  again  to  the  words  of  Peter 
where  he  said,  "We  have  also  a  more 
sure  word  of  prophecy,"  (II  Pet.  1:19) 
I  now  give  you  his  words  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost  to  those  who  had  crucified 
the  Lord  when  he  called  them  back 
to  repentance,  saying: 

"Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  con- 
verted, that  your  sins  may  be  blotted 
out,  when  the  times  of  refreshing  shall 
come  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord; 

"And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ, 
which  before  was  preached  unto  you: 

"Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  un- 
til the  times  of  restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth 
of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began."  (Acts  3:19-21.) 

If  we  believe  the  Holy  Scriptures,  as 
we  are  admonished  to  do,  and  the  words 
of  the  prophets,  we  cannot  look  for  the 
second  coming  of  Christ  in  power  until 
there  is  a  restitution  of  all  things  spoken 
by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets 
since  the  world  began.  I  want  to  say 
unto  you  that  that  is  what  this  Church 
is,  as  it  has  been  pointed  out  in  this 
conference — the  restoration  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  the  re-establishment  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  the  earth,  founded 
upon  the  foundation  of  apostles  and 
prophets,  with  Christ  our  Lord  as  the 
chief  cornerstone  (Eph.  2:20),  which 
God  placed  in  the  Church  according  to 
the  Apostle  Paul 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  .  .  . 

"That  we  henceforth  be  no  more  chil- 
dren tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried  about 
with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by  the 
sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  craftiness 
whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  deceive." 
(Ibid.,  4:12-14.) 

How  can  anybody  look  at  the  Chris- 
tian world  today  and  see  its  divided 
condition  and  know  that  the  Lord  in- 
tended that  we  should  come  to  a  unity 
of  the  faith,  without  realizing  that  we 
must  return  again  to  the  organization 
that  he  placed  in  the  Church?  And 
what  an  organization  that  is,  where 


ID  RICHARDS  113 

every  man  and  every  man's  son  can  be 
co-partners,  as  it  were,  with  the  Lord 
through  bearing  his  Holy  Priesthood, 
to  help  establish  his  kingdom  in  the 
earth. 

If  there  is  to  be  a  restitution  of  all 
things,  that  presupposes  that  it  cannot 
be  a  reformation.  It  also  presupposes 
that  the  truth  did  not  remain  upon  the 
earth.  There  is  not  time  today  for  me 
to  go  into  the  prophecies  of  the  falling 
away,  but  men  of  our  day  have  borne 
witness  that  the  truth  is  not  upon  the 
earth.  I  like  the  statement  contained 
in  Smith's  Bible  Dictionary,  prepared 
by  seventy-three  divines  and  bible  stu- 
dents, in  which  they  say: 

"We  must  not  expect  to  see  the 
Church  of  Holy  Scripture  actually  ex- 
isting in  its  perfection  on  the  earth.  It 
is  not  to  be  found  thus  perfect,  either 
in  the  collected  fragments  of  Christen- 
dom, or  still  less  in  any  of  those 
fragments." 

How  wonderful,  when  seventy-three 
noted  divines  trying  to  find  the  truth 
just  by  reading  the  scriptures  without 
the  living  testimony  of  the  Spirit,  come 
to  know  that  the  world  has  drifted 
away  from  the  teachings  of  the  scrip- 
tures. You  will  recall  that  great  leader 
among  the  Baptists,  Roger  Williams, 
who  resigned  as  pastor  of  the  oldest 
Baptist  Church  in  America  and  gave 
these  reasons: 

"There  is  no  regular  constituted 
Church  of  Christ,  on  the  earth,  nor  any 
person  authorized  to  administer  any 
church  ordinance,  nor  can  there  be  until 
new  apostles  are  sent  by  the  great  head 
of  the  Church  for  whose  coming  I  am 
seeking." 

If  he  had  lived  in  the  day  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  as  taught  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  he  would 
have  known  that  apostles  had  been  sent 
again  in  our  day  with  the  same  author- 
ity, the  same  organization,  the  same 
truths  that  were  taught  in  the  Meridian 
of  Time. 

There  is  not  time  to  discuss  all  the 
great  truths  that  we  have  received 
through  the  restoration  of  the  gospel, 
but  if  you  will  think  of  the  things  that 
have  been  mentioned  in  this  conference: 
the  gathering  of  Israel,  the  building  of 
temples,  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon — and  nobody  can  read  the 


114 

Sunday,  October  12 

Bible  without  knowing  that  there  is.  a 
companion  volume  of  scripture  that 
must  be  united  with  it,  which  is  to  be- 
come one  in  the  hands  of  God — and 
when  you  think  of  a  record  of  over  500 
pages  of  history  and  words  of  prophets 
who  have  lived  upon  this  land  of 
America,  and  when  you  read  the  prom- 
ises to  Joseph  of  a  new  land  in  the 
utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills, 
and  his  blessings  which  were  to  be 
greater  than  the  blessings  of  his  pro- 
genitors, you  cannot  help  but  wonder 
why  the  Lord  would  have  made  such 
promises  unto  that  chosen  of  the  House 
of  Israel,  without  providing  for  the 
recording  of  the  fulfilment  of  those 
promises.  So  we  have  the  record  of  the 
fulfilment  of  all  these  promises. 

I  leave  you  one  more  passage  of 
scripture  before  I  close,  and  that  is  in 
the  third  chapter  of  Malachi,  where  the 
Lord  said  he  would  send  his  messenger 
to  prepare  the  way  for  his  coming,  that 
he  would  come  swiftly  to  his  temple, 
and  who  would  abide  the  day  of  his 
coming,  because  he  would  be  as  refiner's 
fire  and  fullers'  soap. 

I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  he 
did  not  come  to  his  temple  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time,  and  I  ask  you  today, 
where  is  a  people  in  all  the  world  that 
are  building  temples  to  the  Most  High? 
You  know  the  record  of  this  Church, 
the  number  of  temples  that  have  been 
dedicated  in  recent  years.  This  great 
temple  that  stands  upon  this  block,  and 
yet  the  churches  know  not  what  tem- 
ples are  for,  nor  do  they  have  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  ordinances  that  are  to  be 
performed  therein.  We  would  not  know 
either,  except  that  we  live  in  the  day 
that  Peter  spoke  of,  to  prepare  the  way 
of  the  Lord  when  there  was  to  be  a 
restitution  of  all  things  spoken  by  the 
mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since 
the  world  began,  truly  the  day  of  ful- 
filment. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

In  closing  I  leave  you  a  testimony  of 
a  man  who  sat  in  my  office  recently, 
who  spent  thirty  years  as  a  minister 
of  the  gospel.  Then  he  met  the  Mormon 
elders.  He  said,  "I  had  always  thought 
I  had  as  much  authority  as  any  man  to 
perform  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel, 
until  I  met  the  Mormon  elders  and 
then  I  knew  that  I  must  accept  baptism 
at  their  hands."  And  then  he  added: 
"Brother  Richards,  when  I  think  of 
how  little  I  had  to  offer  my  people  as 
a  minister  of  the  gospel  compared  to 
what  I  now  have  in  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  as  it  has  been  restored,  I  want 
to  go  back  and  tell  all  my  friends  what 
I  have  found.  Now,  they  will  not  lis- 
ten to  me.  I  am  an  apostate  from  their 
church." 

But  such  are  the  testimonies  of  peo- 
ple, who,  as  Jesus  said  "hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness."  He  also 
said: 

"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his 
that  sent  me. 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
(John  7:16-17.) 

I  bear  you  witness,  and  make  the 
promise  to  all  who  are  not  members 
of  this  Church  that  if  they  will  investi- 
gate our  message  and  ask  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  that  they  can  know  be- 
yond a  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that 
the  truth  has  been  restored  in  its  ful- 
ness to  the  earth  to  prepare  the  way  of 
the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

This  testimony  I  give  to  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Brother  Bruce  R.  Mc- 
Conkie  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Brother  LeGrand  Richards,  one  of 
the  forceful  and  eloquent  preachers  of 
righteousness  in  this  latter-day  kingdom, 
has  just  spoken  to  us  in  a  powerful 


manner,  setting  forth  the  restoration  of 
the  everlasting  gospel  in  our  day.  Now, 
if  I  may  be  guided  by  the  same  Spirit, 
and  be  under  the  same  power,  I  have  it 


ELDER  BRUCE 

in  my  heart  to  make  a  brief  expression 
relative  to  the  stability,  growth,  and 
eventual  destiny  of  the  great  latter-day 
kingdom  that  has  been  established  as 
part  of  the  restitution  of  all  things. 

When  I  speak  of  the  kingdom,  I  mean 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  which,  in  the  most  complete, 
real,  literal,  and  accurate  sense,  is  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  For  a  text 
I  will  read  some  words  originally  writ- 
ten by  the  great  prophet  Isaiah,  words 
which  later  were  quoted  by  the  resur- 
rected Christ  as  he  ministered  among 
the  Nephites.  When  Jesus  quoted  these 
words,  he  put  them  in  their  perspective, 
in  their  context.  He  had  just  announced 
that  the  restitution  of  all  things  was  to 
take  place;  that  the  gospel  was  to  come 
again  in  its  fulness;  that  Israel  was  to 
be  gathered;  and  that  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth  was  to  be  established  in 
the  last  days.  Then  he  quoted  these 
words  from  Isaiah,  words  which  are 
addressed  to  the  Church  and  which 
specifically  describe  the  stability,  growth, 
and  eventual  destiny  of  the  Church. 

Thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ: 

"Enlarge  the  place  of  thy  tent,  and 
let  them  stretch  forth  the  curtains  of 
thy  habitations;  spare  not,  lengthen  thy 
cords  and  strengthen  thy  stakes; 

"For  thou  [meaning  the  Church] 
shalt  break  forth  on  the  right  hand 
and  on  the  left,  and  thy  seed  shall  in- 
herit the  Gentiles  and  make  the  desolate 
cities  to  be  inhabited. 

"Fear  not,  for  thou  [meaning  the 
Church]  shalt  not  be  ashamed;  neither 
be  thou  confounded,  for  thou  shalt  not 
be  put  to  shame; .  .  ."  (3  Nephi  22:2-4.) 

"For  the  mountains  shall  depart  and 
the  hills  be  removed,  but  my  kindness 
shall  not  depart  from  thee  [meaning, 
of  course,  the  Church],  neither  shall  the 
covenant  of  my  people  be  removed,  saith 
the  Lord  that  hath  mercy  on  thee." 
(Ibid.,  vs.  10.) 

The  everlasting  covenant  is  the  gospel. 
This  promise  is,  then,  an  assurance  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  remain 
in  and  be  administered  by  the  Church 
and  kingdom  as  set  up  and  established 
in  this  day. 

"And  all  thy  children  shall  be  taught 
of  the  Lord;  and  great  shall  be  the  peace 
of  thy  children. 


R.  McCONKIE  115 

"In  righteousness  shalt  thou  be  estab- 
lished; [and  then  this  next,  pertaining 
to  a  yet  future  day]  thou  shalt  be  far 
from  oppression  for  thou  shalt  not  fear, 
and  from  terror  for  it  shall  not  come 
near  thee. 

"Behold,  [this  pertaining  to  our  day] 
they  [meaning  the  wicked]  shall  surely 
gather  together  against  thee,  not  by  me; 
[certainly  there  will  be  trials,  troubles, 
persecutions,  and  the  like,  but  having  so 
recognized,  then  comes  this  glorious 
promise  and  assurance] :  whosoever  shall 
gather  together  against  thee  shall  fall 
for  thy  sake  "  (Ibid.,  vs.  13-15.) 

"No  weapon  that  is  formed  against 
thee  shall  prosper;  and  every  tongue 
that  shall  rise  against  thee  in  judgment 
thou  shalt  condemn.  This  is  the  herit- 
age of  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and 
their  righteousness  is  of  me,  saith  the 
Lord."  (Ibid.,  vs.  17.) 

Now,  I  think  we  all  understand  that 
this  great  latter-day  kingdom  has  been 
set  up  for  the  last  time,  never  again  to 
be  destroyed,  and  that  never  again  will 
the  necessity  arise  for  another  and  future 
restoration.  The  ordinances  and  prin- 
ciples of  salvation,  the  requirements 
which  men  must  abide  in  order  to 
gain  a  celestial  inheritance,  are  ever, 
eternally,  and  always  the  same.  God 
is  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  every 
person  from  Adam  to  the  last  man  must 
abide  the  same  identical  law  in  order 
to  qualify  for  a  celestial  inheritance. 

But  there  is  one  great  thing  about 
this  dispensation  which  differs  from  all 
the  dispensations  of  the  past.  It  is  that 
this  time,  with  the  opening  of  the  heav- 
ens and  the  revealing  of  the  gospel  in 
our  day,  there  came  the  positive,  un- 
qualified assurance  that  the  gospel  was 
to  remain  on  earth;  that  the  kingdom 
was  to  be  secure;  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
to  remain  among  men  to  prepare  a 
people  for  the  second  coming  of  the  Son 
of  man. 

We  are  familiar  with  the  visions 
that  Enoch  received.  You  will  recall 
that  he  saw  our  day.  He  saw  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  truth 
springing  out  of  the  earth  and  righteous- 
ness looking  down  from  heaven.  He 
saw  the  hosts  of  scattered  Israel  gath- 
ered to  a  holy  city.   He  saw  the  tribu- 


116 

Sunday,  October  12 

lations,  the  wars,  the  desolation,  the 
troubles  that  would  prevail  in  this  day, 
and  then  the  voice  of  God  spoke  to  him 
and  said:  ".  .  .  great  tribulations  shall 
be  among  the  children  of  men,  but 
my  people  will  I  preserve."  (Moses 
7:61.)  That  is  an  immutable,  positive 
assurance. 

Some  things  we  get,  provided  we 
abide  the  law  which  entitles  us  to  re- 
ceive them.  Some  promises  come  from 
the  Lord  without  conditions  attached 
to  them.  We  die  whether  we  like  it  or 
not.  That  is  immutably  decreed.  We 
will  be  resurrected  and  have  immortal- 
ity. There  is  no  question  of  that;  we 
cannot  avoid  it.  In  that  same  category 
is  the  promise  that  the  Lord  will  pre- 
serve his  people  in  this  day. 

We  are  familiar  with  the  great  vision 
and  revelation  that  Daniel  had,  in 
which  he  saw  the  successive  kingdoms 
of  the  world  set  up  by  the  power  of 
men's  hands,  and  then  finally  saw  this 
kingdom,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  set  up  by  revelation, 
without  the  hand  of  man.  And  then 
he  said  that  this  kingdom  would  never 
be  given  to  another  people;  that  it 
would  grow  and  increase  and  break  in 
pieces  all  kingdoms  and  fill  the  whole 
earth. 

Well,  after  the  Lord  had  set  up  this 
Church  and  restored  the  gospel,  he  said 
by  his  own  mouth  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith:  "The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  are  committed  unto  man  on  the 
earth,  and  from  thence  shall  the  gospel 
roll  forth  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
as  the  stone  which  is  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands  shall  roll 
forth,  until  it  has  filled  the  whole 
earth."  (D  &  C  65:2.)  That  is  an  im- 
mutable, irrevocable  promise.  That 
promise  we  have. 

May  I  quote  one  sentence  which  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  writing  by  revela- 
tion and  inspiration,  included  in  that 
famous  document,  "The  Wentworth 
Letter."  He  said:  ".  .  .  No  unhallowed 
hand  can  stop  the  work  from  progress- 
ing; persecutions  may  rage,  mobs  may 
combine,  armies  may  assemble,  calumny 
may  defame,  but  the  truth  of  God  will 
go  forth  boldly,  nobly,  and  independent, 
till  it  has  penetrated  every  continent, 
visited  every  clime,  swept  every  country, 
and  sounded  in  every  ear,  till  the  pur- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

poses  of  God  shall  be  accomplished,  and 
the  Great  Jehovah  shall  say  the  work  is 
done."  (History  of  the  Church,  vol.  4, 
p.  540.) 

You  and  I  are  in  this  kingdom  at  its 
beginning.  The  groundwork  is  being 
laid.  Out  of  small  beginnings  come 
great  things.  We  have  had  tremendous 
progression  and  growth;  we  are  estab- 
lished and  recognized  in  the  world  al- 
ready; but  there  will  be  an  eventual 
day  when  the  whole  earth  will  be  con- 
verted to  the  truth,  when  every  living 
soul  will  come  into  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  in  the  kingdom  of  God  now 
which  is  exclusively  an  ecclesiastical 
kingdom.  This  kingdom  is  going  to 
grow  and  increase,  multiply  and  abound, 
and  nothing  can  stop  it,  until  the  day 
comes  that  it  will  be  both  an  ecclesi- 
astical kingdom  and  a  political  kingdom, 
and  it  will  govern  in  all  things, — 
spiritual,  civil,  temporal,  and  political. 
The  kingdoms  of  this  world  are  going 
to  become  the  kingdom  of  our  God  and 
of  his  Christ. 

President  John  Taylor  said  this:  "It 
has  been  asked  .  .  .  whether  this  king- 
dom will  fail.  I  tell  you  in  the  name 
of  Israel's  God  it  will  not  fail.  I  tell  you 
in  the  name  of  Israel's  God  it  will  roll 
forth,  and  that  the  things  spoken  of 
by  the  holy  prophets  in  relation  to  it 
will  receive  their  fulfilment.  But  in 
connection  with  this  I  will  tell  you  an- 
other thing:  A  great  many  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  fail,  a  great  many 
of  them  are  not  now  and  never  have 
been  living  up  to  their  privileges,  and 
magnifying  their  callings  and  their 
priesthood,  and  God  will  have  a  reckon- 
ing with  such  people,  unless  they 
speedily  repent."  (Gospel  Kingdom,  p. 
137.)    He  said  many  similar  things. 

One  more  quotation,  this  one  from 
President  Wilford  Woodruff: 

"When  the  Lord  gave  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  God,  the  keys  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  of  the  apostleship, 
and  sealed  them  upon  the  head  of 
Joseph  Smith,  he  sealed  them  upon  his 
head  to  stay  here  upon  the  earth  until 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man.  Well 
might  Brigham  Young  say,  'The  keys 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  here.'  They 
were  with  him  to  the  day  of  his  death. 
They  then  rested  upon  the  head  of  an- 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


117 


other  man — President  John  Taylor.  He 
held  those  keys  to  the  hour  of  his  death. 
They  then  fell  by  turn,  or  in  the  provi- 
dence of  God,  upon  Wilford  Woodruff. 

"I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  here, 
and  they  are  going  to  stay  here,  too, 
until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 
Let  all  Israel  understand  that.  They 
may  not  rest  upon  my  head  but  a  short 
time,  but  they  will  then  rest  on  the 
head  of  another  apostle,  and  another 
after  him,  and  so  continue  until  the 
coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven  to  'reward  every  man 
according  to  the  deeds  done  in  the 
body.' 

"I  say  to  all  Israel  at  this  day,  I  say 
to  the  whole  world,  that  the  God  of 
Israel,  who  organized  this  Church  and 
kingdom,  never  ordained  any  Presi- 
dent or  Presidency  to  lead  it  astray. 
Hear  it,  ye  Israel,  no  man  who  has  ever 
breathed  the  breath  of  life  can  hold 
these  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  and 
lead  the  people  astray."  (Discourses  of 
Wilford  Woodruff,  pp.  73-74.) 

Now  these  things  are  amply  attested 
to.  The  revelations  and  inspired  utter- 
ances of  living  oracles  give  us  the  full 
account.  We  should  know  these  things 
from  the  records  which  are  before  us. 
Then,  also,  we  should  go  to  the  Lord, 
in  faith  and  in  mighty  prayer,  and  get 
in  our  hearts  the  revealed  assurance 
that  this  work  is  true.  Brother  Rich- 
ards quoted:  ".  .  .  my  doctrine  is  not 
mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 


"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
(John  7:16-17.)  Every  living  soul  in 
this  world  who  will  abide  the  law  that 
entitles  him  to  know  by  personal  revela- 
tion from  the  Holy  Ghost  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work,  of  the  stability  and  destiny 
of  this  kingdom,  can  get  that  knowledge, 
and  I  for  one  have  that  knowledge  and 
so  certify  to  you  in  sincerity  and 
solemnity,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch.  After 
the  singing,  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner 
will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A 
Foundation,"  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch  con- 
ducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  now  address  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  after 
the  concluding  session  of  conference  yes- 
terday afternoon,  I  was  congratulated 
six  times  on  the  fine  talk  I  had  given  at 
that  session  of  conference,  and  wanting 
to  be  an  honest  man,  I  should  like  now 
to  pass  on  those  compliments  to  those 
who  gave  my  talk  yesterday  afternoon. 

It  has  been  most  inspiring  to  be  in 
attendance  at  this  conference.  I  have 
had  a  long  time  to  think.  Some  observa- 
tions that  have  gone  through  my  mind 
I  felt  might  be  interesting  to  you,  even 
though  most  of  these  things  have  al- 


ready been  said  in  a  better  way  than  I 
will  ever  be  able  to  say  them. 

The  first  observation  I  should  like  to 
make  is  the  terrific  impact  that  a  gen- 
eral conference  of  the  Church  has  upon 
its  membership  and  upon  the  many 
thousands  of  people  who  are  friendly 
toward  the  Church.  We  will  leave  this 
great  conference,  I  am  sure,  more  en- 
thusiastic and  more  desirous  of  further- 
ing the  purposes  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
We  will  be  better  men  and  women  be- 
cause of  our  attendance  here  and  of 
hearing  the  word  of  the  Lord  go  forth 


118 

Sunday,  October  12 

as  it  has  done.  More  than  thirty-five 
profound  sermons  have  been  delivered 
in  this  conference  already. 

I  have  been  wondering,  too,  if  we 
realize  that  this  is  probably  the  great- 
est religious  gathering  held  any  place 
in  the  earth.  Have  you  ever  thought 
about  this?  A  general  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  comprised  of  those  who  are  pres- 
ent, those  listening  in  on  the  radio,  and 
those  who  might  be  viewing  this  con- 
ference on  television  all  become  part 
of  this  greatest  of  all  religious  gatherings 
that  are  held. 

I  think  of  the  people  who  have  come 
here,  representing  many  nations  of  the 
earth.  I  have  shaken  hands  with  peo- 
ple from  New  Zealand,  the  Fiji  Islands, 
Tonga,  Samoa,  Switzerland,  Hawaii, 
Canada,  and  Mexico.  I  feel  certain 
there  are  those  here  representing  other 
foreign  countries  also,  and  practically 
every  state  in  this  great  nation  of  ours. 

I  have  been  thinking  of  the  thousands, 
yes,  many  thousands  who  would  give 
their  all  to  be  here  at  this  conference 
today,  but  their  all  is  not  sufficient  to 
buy  them  a  ticket  and  to  take  them  back 
to  their  homes  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
conference.  To  them,  this  conference 
will  come  either  through  the  mission- 
aries, the  mission  presidents,  or  by  the 
printed  word  as  it  will  be  circulated 
through  the  periodicals  of  the  Church. 

Another  observation  I  should  like  to 
make  is  that  we  are  sitting  in  the  pres- 
ence of  three  of  the  great  men  of  the 
world — the  First  Presidency  of  this 
Church.  My  close  association  with 
them,  and  the  honor  and  privilege  I 
enjoy  of  sitting  in  meetings  with  them 
two  or  three  times  each  week  bears 
testimony  to  me  that  there  are  no 
greater  men  living  today.  As  you  al- 
ready know,  they  have  been  appointed 
by  our  Heavenly  Father  to  preside  over 
his  Church.  They  have  been  sustained 
by  you  to  be  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
and  I  hope  that  to  us  sustaining  them 
means  we  will  work  as  we  have  never 
worked  before  to  promote  the  great 
purposes  of  the  Lord. 

A  further  observation  I  should  like  to 
make  is  that  when  revelation,  counsel, 
the  interpretations  of  the  doctrines  of 
the  Church,  or  the  law  of  the  Church 
goes  forth  to  the  members  in  all  parts 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

of  the  earth,  it  is  going  to  go  forth 
from  this  source.  Therefore,  I  would 
say,  keep  your  eyes  and  ears  on  the 
First  Presidency,  and  listen  to  the  coun- 
sel that  comes  from  them.  If  any  per- 
son ever  becomes  confused,  disturbed, 
or  critical,  I  would  say  to  you,  come 
to  the  fountainhead  of  the  Church  for 
the  answers  to  your  questions.  You  will 
discover  that  these  brethren  are  more 
than  willing  to  give  you  the  answers 
that  you  require  so  that  you  may  not 
get  lost  or  wander  astray.  Do  not  go 
to  those  who  are  undermining  the 
Church,  to  apostate  groups,  or  to  those 
whose  intent  it  is  to  destroy  the  work  of 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

Another  observation  that  has  im- 
pressed me  is  that  as  we  look  at  those 
on  the  stand  in  the  Tabernacle,  there 
are  represented  here  the  great  councils 
of  the  Church — the  Council  of  the  First 
Presidency  who  preside  over  the  high 
priesthood  of  the  Church;  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  who  are  special 
witnesses  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  travel 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  Church, 
and  whose  work  has  increased  to  such 
proportions  that  they  cannot  entirely 
carry  the  responsibility.  Therefore, 
eight  other  men  have  been  appointed 
and  set  apart  to  assist  them,  known  as 
the  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  All  of  these  brethren  may  be 
considered  as  counselors  to  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  On  the  stand 
also  is  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 
There  are  also  seven  men  who  com- 
prise the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
who  have  a  definite  and  specific  re- 
sponsibility. Finally,  there  is  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  who  pre- 
side over  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  the 
Church.  Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you 
that  as  you  sit  here  in  conference,  you 
are  in  the  presence  of  these  great  coun- 
cils and  also  that  you  hear  a  personal 
message  from  each  of  these  brethren 
during  the  course  of  a  general  confer- 
ence? 

Another  observation  that  has  im- 
pressed me  as  I  have  been  sitting  here 
is  that  those  of  us  who  had  the  honor 
of  being  here  at  9:30  this  morning  and 
listening  to  the  broadcast  of  this  great 
choir  could  not  help  but  realize  that 
from  this  spot  every  Sunday  morning, 
for  nearly  thirty  years  now,  has  gone  a 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


119 


living  broadcast  to  the  people  of  the 
nation  and  as  far  elsewhere  as  radio 
carries  the  inspirational  music  and  mes- 
sage of  the  spoken  word  that  emanates 
from  this  great  Tabernacle  Choir  or- 
ganization. As  I  thought  about  them, 
I  began  to  realize  the  sacrifices  that 
many  of  these  people  have  made  in 
spite  of  wind,  snow,  sleet,  rain,  cold, 
heat,  and  all  other  conditions.  These 
brethren  and  sisters  dedicate  every  Sun- 
day morning,  except  the  few  Sundays 
they  are  away  on  tour,  to  the  presenta- 
tion of  these  wonderful  hymns  and  an- 
thems. Aside  from  this,  there  are  many, 
many  hours  of  rehearsals  required  for 
the  preparation  of  these  programs.  I 
should  like  to  say,  "God  bless  them 
for  their  devotion  and  faithfulness  to 
this  great  cause." 

Another  observation  I  should  like  to 
make  is  that  the  priesthood  about 
which  we  have  heard  so  much  during 
this  conference  is  so  important  that 
heavenly  messengers  personally  brought 
it  to  the  earth.  The  priesthood  is  the 
very  lifeblood  of  the  Church.  It  is  an 
honor  to  be  a  bearer  of  and  a  worker 
in  the  priesthood.  It  is  through  this 
power  that  the  gospel  was  restored  to 
the  earth  in  this  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times.  It  is  through 
this  priesthood  that  the  Church  con- 
tinues to  remain  organized  and  to  func- 
tion in  the  earth. 

I  was  proud  of  the  great  audience  of 
Aaronic  Priesthood  boys  who  were  in 
attendance  last  Friday  evening  when  we 
held  the  dedicatorial  services  for  the 
beautiful  Aaronic  Priesthood  Memorial 
Monument,  located  just  north  of  the 
Tabernacle,  depicting  John  the  Bap- 
tist, a  heavenly  messenger,  conferring 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  on  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery.  On  this  occasion, 
more  than  five  hundred  boys  sang  a 
number  of  inspirational  songs  that 
thrilled  all  who  were  present.  Four 
young  boys  whose  voices  had  not  yet 
changed  singing  the  song,  "On  Lovely 
Susquehanna's  Banks,"  brought  a  lump 
to  my  throat.  They  stood  right  behind 
me  on  the  stand,  and  as  they  began  to 
sing  in  their  soft,  unchanged  voices,  I 
was  really  touched. 

In  my  humble  opinon,  we  are  build- 
ing a  greater  youth  today  than  we  have 
ever  had  before  and  preparing  them  to 


take  over  positions  of  responsibility 
which  will  certainly  come  to  them  as 
they  prove  worthy.  In  passing  I  would 
like  to  add  that  we  should  stay  close 
to  these  young  men,  and  assist  in  mold- 
ing their  lives,  which  will  be  a  blessing 
to  them  and  an  honor  and  credit  to  the 
Church  they  represent.  When  I  think 
of  the  millions  of  men  and  boys  living 
in  the  earth  and  appreciate  that  we  are 
but  a  few  of  those  who  have  been  se- 
lected, called,  and  honored,  and  know- 
ing that  our  leaders  are  depending  upon 
us  to  do  our  part,  I  begin  to  realize  the 
privilege  it  is  to  serve  and  the  blessings 
that  come  from  serving. 

Through  the  power  of  the  priesthood, 
miracles  are  performed  in  this  day  as 
they  were  in  other  periods  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world  when  the  gospel  was 
upon  the  earth.  As  long  as  men  mag- 
nify their  callings  in  the  priesthood, 
we  will  have  miracles,  and  so  also  will 
the  Church  grow  in  influence,  in 
strength,  and  in  favor  among  the  people 
of  the  world.  Therefore,  may  all  of 
us  who  have  been  so  honored  to  bear 
the  priesthood,  magnify  our  callings, 
appreciate  it  to  the  fullest,  and  stand 
at  the  head  of  our  homes  in  dignity 
where  we  can  be  a  blessing  and  a 
strength  to  our  families.  Our  children 
look  to  us  for  counsel  and  leadership, 
and  I  am  afraid  that  in  some  of  our 
homes  the  situation  is  in  reverse.  Some- 
times the  father  is  reactivated  through 
the  boy  who  holds  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood or  even  a  younger  child.  Many 
thrilling  stories  have  been  told  about 
youngsters  who  have  helped  their 
fathers  back  into  activity.  I  heard  one 
not  too  long  ago  about  a  father  and  a 
son  who  were  asked  to  be  ward  teaching 
companions,  and  it  rather  thrilled  me 
as  the  mother  related  to  me  some  of  the 
experiences  they  were  enjoying  and  how 
they  learned  to  know  each  other  through 
this  experience.  She  indicated  that  after 
they  had  been  teaching  together  for  a 
number  of  months,  her  son  came  to  her 
and  said,  "Mother,  you  know  Dad  is 
really  quite  a  man.  I  am  amazed  at 
how  well  he  understands  the  gospel  and 
how  well  he  teaches  when  we  visit  the 
homes  on  our  district.  I  have  learned 
many  things  from  Dad  that  I  did  not 
understand  before,  and  I  am  glad  to  be 
his  ward  teaching  companion;  other- 


120 

Sunday,  October  12 

wise,  I  may  never  have  learned  to  know 
him  so  well."  This  mother  remarked 
that  a  day  or  two  later,  her  husband 
came  to  her  and  said,  "You  know,  I 
think  the  world  of  John.  I  did  not 
know  he  had  it  in  him,  but  when  I  say 
to  him,  'Tonight  it  is  your  turn  to  give 
the  lesson,'  you  would  be  proud  of 
John  if  you  could  hear  him  present  the 
topic  to  the  families  that  we  teach.  He 
is  developing  into  one  capable  of  going 
on  a  mission.' "  I  began  to  think  what 
a  lovely  thing  it  is  for  a  father  and  a 
son  to  become  acquainted  through  one 
of  the  great  programs  of  the  Church — 
the  ward  teaching  program. 

Finally,  I  feel  to  say:  "What  is  the 
objective  of  our  Heavenly  Father  after 
all"?  I  should  like  to  quote  a  passage 
of  scripture  that  Brother  Hinckley  gave 
in  his  message  last  Friday.  One  of  the 
Lord's  objectives  has  been  put  in  these 
words:  "For  behold  this  is  my  work  and 
my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses 
1:39.) 

Brethren  of  the  priesthood,  we  are  the 
assistants  of  our  Heavenly  Father  in 
helping  him  to  achieve  this  great  ob- 
jective for  the  blessing  and  benefit  of 
those  who  live  upon  the  earth.  When 
we  magnify  our  callings  in  the  priest- 
hood to  the  extent  that  we  are  willing 
to  put  our  arms  around  our  brethren 
who  need  assistance  and  encouragement, 
we  are  strengthening  the  kingdom  of 
God.  If  every  man  in  the  Church  who 
holds  the  priesthood  magnified  his  call- 
ing in  that  priesthood,  we  would  go  for- 
ward with  a  power  the  like  of  which 
this  world  has  never  seen  before.  Noth- 
ing could  stay  it. 

Literally,  we  are  engaged  in  our 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Father's  business.  Have  you  ever 
thought  of  the  impact  of  this  statement, 
to  be  engaged  in  our  Father's  business? 
Many  of  us  are  engaged  in  a  business 
or  we  work  for  men  engaged  in  a  busi- 
ness, but  how  many  of  the  eternal  bless- 
ings will  come  to  us  from  our  work  in 
these  businesses?  Compare  your  busi- 
ness with  our  Father's  business,  and  then 
thank  the  Lord  that  you  have  an  op- 
portunity of  being  engaged  in  his 
business.  It  is  a  tremendous  responsi- 
bility and  yet  a  wonderful  opportunity. 

I  sincerely  hope  and  pray  we  will  al- 
ways be  found  engaged  in  our  Father's 
business,  helping  to  carry  his  great  mes- 
sage of  glad  tidings  and  peace  on  earth 
to  the  people  of  the  world,  and  keeping 
active  those  who  are  members  of  his 
kingdom  now  established  in  the  earth. 

My  testimony  is  that  if  we  dedicate 
our  lives  to  magnifying  our  calling  in 
the  priesthood  and  awake  and  arise  to 
our  opportunities,  the  work  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  grow  and  prosper 
until  no  power  can  stay  it.  This  is  my 
conviction  and  my  testimony  to  you.  I 
pray  that  our  Father  in  heaven  will 
give  us  the  deep  and  abiding  apprecia- 
tion for  our  membership  in  the  Church 
and  then  nudge  us  all  to  serve  as  we 
have  never  served  before,  and  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Bishop  Carl 
W.  Buehner  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 
We  will  now  hear  from  Brother  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
President  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  after 
sitting  for  three  days  waiting  to  be 
called  on  to  speak,  it  has  been  difficult 
for  me  to  realize  the  great  blessing  that 
comes  to  him  who  endures  to  the  end. 
My  soul  has  been  thrilled  and  deeply 
touched  with  the  inspiration  of  this 
conference,  and  more  than  ever  in  my 
life  I  appreciate  my  membership  in  the 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  would  like  my  message  today  to  be 
an  expression  of  gratitude  and  appre- 
ciation for  the  privilege  that  has  been 
Sister  Taylor's  and  mine  of  laboring  for 
the  past  three  years  with  your  sons  and 
daughters  in  the  mission  field.  It  has 
been  a  glorious  period  in  our  lives,  a 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


121 


rich  and  rewarding  experience.  We 
love  these  young  people. 

The  question  is  often  asked,  "Why 
does  the  so-called  Mormon  Church  en- 
gage in  such  an  active  proselyting  pro- 
gram?" Our  answer  is,  "We  have  the 
truth  and  have  not  only  the  responsi- 
bility, but  the  urgent  desire  to  share 
that  truth  with  all  the  people  who  dwell 
here  upon  the  earth.  We  have  been 
warned;  we  have  the  responsibility  of 
warning  our  neighbor." 

Also  in  fulfilment  of  prophetic  vi- 
sion, the  gospel  message,  which  has 
been  restored,  must  be  carried  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people. 
Young  women  and  young  men  primarily 
constitute  the  army  in  excess  of  five 
thousand  fulltime  missionaries  who  are 
engaged  in  carrying  the  gospel  message 
to  the  people  of  the  earth  in  the  forty- 
six  missions  of  the  Church.  It  is  an 
inspiring  experience  to  watch  the  growth 
and  development  that  comes  to  these 
missionaries.  They  come  from  all  walks 
of  life,  from  the  farm,  from  the  cattle 
ranch,  the  sheep  camp,  from  business 
and  professional  fields,  students  from 
the  schoolroom,  and  many  young  men 
recently  released  from  the  armed  serv- 
ices of  our  country.  And  yet  regardless 
of  where  they  are  when  the  call  comes 
from  the  President  of  the  Church,  they 
gladly  respond.  They  are  happy  to  be 
engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Their  parents  share  with  them  this 
great  happiness,  and  support  them  fi- 
nancially and  offer  encouragement. 
These  young  men  and  young  women 
go  out  into  the  world  with  little  formal 
training.  They  are  inexperienced,  often 
immature,  timid,  lacking  in  confidence, 
and  yet  we  find  that  their  home  train- 
ing, activity  in  the  priesthood  quorums, 
auxiliaries,  in  the  seminaries,  is  a  won- 
derful blessing  and  advantage  in  pre- 
paring them  to  do  missionary  work. 
Through  study,  prayer,  hard  work,  and 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  these  young 
people  do  grow  and  develop.  They  gain 
a  knowledge  of  the  gospel;  confidence, 
power,  and  a  maturity  far  beyond  their 
years.  They  acquire  a  strong  and  burn- 
ing testimony,  and  bear  that  testimony 
with  such  a  fervency  that  it  carries  con- 
viction to  the  hearts  of  the  people  they 
are  teaching. 

Certainly  the  methods  of  teaching  the 


gospel  have  changed  over  the  years 
since  many  of  us  were  in  the  mission 
field.  We  are  currently  using  what  is 
known  as  the  Systematic,  or  Uniform 
Plan  of  teaching  the  gospel,  where  our 
beliefs  are  presented  in  a  systematic, 
orderly  fashion.  This  has  proved  an 
effective  way  of  teaching  the  gospel,  a 
noticeable  increase  in  convert  baptisms 
is  a  result  of  these  improvements  in 
methods. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  is  bless- 
ing the  missionary  work.  It  is  a  stirring 
experience  to  sit  in  a  meeting  with  the 
missionaries  and  hear  them  relate  in- 
stances where  they  have  been  led  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  certain  doors. 
They  have  knocked  on  the  door,  intro- 
duced themselves,  had  the  people  greet 
them  warmly  and  say,  "Come  in,  we 
have  been  waiting  for  you  to  call. 
Why  have  you  been  so  long  in  com- 
ing?" 

I  am  acquainted  with  one  fine  woman 
whose  husband  passed  away  quite  some 
time  ago.  She  was  deeply  impressed 
with  the  beauty  of  one  of  our  LDS 
temples.  She  had  heard  somewhat  re- 
garding our  beliefs  of  a  literal  resur- 
rection, our  belief  in  a  life  hereafter, 
and  wanted  to  know  more  concerning 
those  concepts.  One  day  upon  arising 
from  her  prayers  she  began  scanning 
through  the  telephone  book  in  an  at- 
tempt to  discover  the  address  of  one  of 
our  LDS  chapels,  just  then  a  knock 
came  on  her  door,  and  upon  answering 
it  she  found  two  young  missionaries 
there.  They  had  been  prompted  by  the 
Spirit  to  approach  this  home.  Upon  in- 
troducing themselves,  they  were  invited 
in  and  commenced  teaching  that  good 
woman  the  gospel,  and  she  is  now  a 
faithful  and  devout  member  of  the 
Church. 

The  time  of  a  mission  in  the  life  of  a 
young  person  is  a  time  of  dedication. 
It  is  a  time  of  consecration.  Young 
people  are  willing  to  forego  worldly 
pleasures  and  concentrate  on  things  of 
the  spirit. 

And  now  to  you  parents.  I  am  con- 
fident that  I  represent  all  the  mission 
presidents  of  the  Church  when  I  say 
to  you,  "Thanks  for  the  encouragement 
that  you  give  to  your  sons  and  your 
daughters,  not  only  the  financial  as- 
sistance that  you  furnish  them,  but  for 


122 

Sunday,  October  12 

your  love  and  your  understanding." 
Your  hearts  would  be  warmed  if  you 
could  sit  in  a  testimony  meeting  and 
hear  the  young  people  stand,  with  tears 
in  their  eyes,  and  say,  "I  love  my  father 
and  mother.  I  am  grateful  for  the  sac- 
rifices that  they  are  making  that  I  might 
be  here  in  the  mission  field.  I  neglected 
to  express  that  love  before  I  left  home, 
but  when  I  return  that  will  all  be 
changed.  I  shall  always  be  grateful  to 
them." 

Missionary  work  is  a  wonderful  un- 
selfish work,  and  I  would  strongly  urge 
that  every  young  man  in  this  Church 
set  as  an  aim  and  a  goal  the  filling  of 
a  mission;  that  he  will  live  a  clean  and 
pure  life  so  that  when  he  reaches  the 
required  age  his  bishop  and  his  stake 
president  can  recommend  him  for  mis- 
sionary service. 

It  has  been  pointed  out  that  every 
member  in  the  Church  can  and  should 
be  a  missionary.  We  can  do  that, 
brethren  and  sisters,  by  setting  proper 
examples,  being  good  neighbors,  keeping 
all  the  commandments.  I  have  noticed 
in  the  various  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence groups  of  our  young  men  and 
women  who  are  wearing  the  uniform 
of  the  armed  forces.  Now  you  young 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  military  serv- 
ice can  be  effective  missionaries  if  you 
will  remember  that  "actions  speak 
louder  than  words."  We  know  that  you 
are  confronted  with  many  temptations, 
but  if  you  will  live  the  commandments 
you  can  be  a  shining  example  for  your 
associates. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  great 
number  of  young  men  that  we  have  in 
the  mission  field  today  who  were  con- 
verted to  the  Church  while  they  were 
in  the  military  services,  and  that  was 
through  the  efforts  of  their  good  com- 
panions, faithful  Latter-day  Saint  boys. 
You  can  be  good  missionaries,  brethren, 
if  you  will  maintain  the  standards  of 
the  Church. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  what  is  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

message  that  the  missionaries  are  teach- 
ing? In  brief,  it  is  this:  that  there  is 
a  Supreme  Being.  He  is  the  Father  of 
our  spirits.  He  is  our  Father  in  heaven: 
That  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
is  the  Redeemer  of  this  world,  and 
through  his  atonement  mankind  is  as- 
surred  of  salvation  and  has  the  possi- 
bilities of  exaltation;  that  the  gospel  and 
the  priesthood,  which  was  taken  from 
the  earth  due  to  the  acts  of  men,  has 
been  restored,  and  Joseph  Smith  was 
the  chosen  prophet  through  whom  the 
restoration  was  effected;  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  true  and  was  translated 
from  ancient  golden  plates  by  power 
from  on  high  to  Joseph  Smith;  that 
prophets  have  succeeded  Joseph  Smith 
as  Presidents  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints;  that  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  the  great  pre- 
siding high  priest,  is  a  prophet,  seer, 
and  revelator,  and  holds  all  the  keys 
and  the  powers  that  had  been  bestowed 
upon  his  predecessors. 

I  accept  and  subscribe  to  these  teach- 
ings of  the  missionaries.  I  bear  you  my 
testimony  and  witness  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  do  know  they  are  true, 
and  this  I  humbly  do  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

From  every  state  in  the  Union  and 
several  foreign  countries,  from  homes  of 
members  of  the  Church,  come  our  sons 
and  daughters  to  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  probably  the  leading  Church 
University  in  the  world.  I  felt  impressed 
to  let  you  and  all  those  listening  in 
meet  personally  this  afternoon  the  pres- 
ident of  the  Brigham  Young  University, 
Elder  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson.  He  knew 
nothing  about  this,  and  was  recently — a 
year  or  so  ago — in  the  hospital  with  a 
heart  attack.  I  hope  this  will  not  affect 
him  in  any  way. 


ELDER  ERNEST  L.  WILKINSON 

President  of  the  Brigham  Young  University 


I  was  once  taught  that  if  one  wants 
to  make  a  good  off-hand  speech  he 
should  have  a  good  speech  on  hand, 


but  I  am  caught  at  this  time  totally 
unprepared. 

It  was  just  one  hundred  and  fourteen 


ELDER  ERNEST  L.  WILKINSON 


123 


years  ago  that  a  young  Scotch  boy,  six- 
teen years  of  age,  walking  down  the 
streets  of  Glasgow,  Scotland,  noted  in 
flaming  newspaper  headlines  the  story 
of  the  martyrdom  in  the  United  States 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother 
Hyrum.  This  young  Scotch  boy  had 
never  before  heard  of  Mormonism,  but 
he  was  so  indignant  that  in  free  Amer- 
ica religious  leaders  should  be  murdered, 
he  decided  he  would  find  out  about  the 
religious  cause  they  espoused.  Later  he 
was  privileged  to  hear  some  mission- 
aries, learned  from  them  what  he  could 
about  this  restored  gospel,  and  in  1848, 
at  the  age  of  twenty,  joined  the  Church. 
Three  years  later  he  was  himself  called 
on  a  mission  to  England  and  later  to 
the  continent  of  Europe.  Returning  to 
England  for  additional  missionary  la- 
bors, this  young  Scotch  boy,  who  had 
never  been  on  American  soil,  at  his  own 
request  went  to  Saxony  in  Germany  and 
there  was  instrumental  in  converting  to 
this  Church  a  young  German  educator 
by  the  name  of  Karl  G.  Maeser.  The 
late  President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  said 
on  many  occasions  that  if  all  the  money 
we  had  spent  in  sending  missionaries 
to  Germany  had  been  spent  in  the  con- 
version of  this  one  young  man,  it  would 
have  been  well  spent. 

President  Franklin  D.  Richards  of  the 
European  Mission  was  present  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  baptism  of  young  Maeser, 
which  was  the  first  to  take  place  in 
Saxony.  The  baptism  took  place  in  the 
River  Elbe,  and  Brother  Maeser  later 
related  that  as  he  was  confirmed  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  he  prayed  as  he  had 
never  prayed  before,  for  an  immediate 
personal  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work.  But  when  he  was  confirmed 
he  was  disappointed,  for  he  seemed  to 
have  no  different  feeling  than  before. 
Then  he,  President  Richards,  and  young 
Budge  began  a  rather  long  walk  back  to 
Karl  G.  Maeser' s  home.  For  this  purpose 
young  Budge  placed  himself  in  the  cen- 
ter so  he  could  translate  the  English 
of  Brother  Richards  into  the  German  of 
Brother  Maeser,  and  vice  versa.  But  no 
sooner  had  he  started  translating  than 
he  was  told  by  both  that  translation 
was  unnecessary,  that  they  understood 
the  foreign  language  of  each  other  just 


as  perfectly  as  they  understood  their  own 
native  tongues.  When  they  arrived  at 
the  home  of  young  Maeser,  the  gift  of 
interpretation  of  tongues  left  them  as 
quickly  as  it  had  come  upon  them,  and 
young  Maeser  turned  to  young  Budge, 
for  they  were  both  of  the  same  age,  and 
earnestly  asked  for  an  explanation  of 
what  had  happened.  The  young  Scotch 
missionary,  divinely  inspired,  replied  in 
substance:  "Brother  Maeser,  that  is  the 
testimony  for  which  you  prayed  when 
you  were  confirmed  a  member  of  this 
Church." 

In  due  time  young  Brother  Maeser 
and  his  family,  and  the  Schoenfeld  and 
Martin  families  (his  wife's  sisters  and 
their  husbands),  decided  to  emigrate  to 
the  promised  land  of  America.  In  order 
to  do  so  they  left  Germany  by  night,  for 
fear  the  Prussian  police  would  prevent 
their  going  to  Zion.  When  they  arrived 
in  London  the  Maeser  family  was  sep- 
arated from  the  others.  The  Schoenfeld 
and  Martin  families  left  for  America, 
but  young  Maeser  was  abruptly  called  on 
a  mission  to  England  and  Scotland,  the 
native  land  of  the  young  man  who  had 
converted  him.  If  you  cast  your  bread 
upon  the  water,  that  bread  will  return 
to  you.  Scotland  was  now  to  be  hon- 
ored by  hearing  the  word  of  God  from 
this  young  German  convert  who  had 
received  the  same  word  from  its  own 
native  son.  And  young  Karl  Maeser, 
like  young  William  Budge,  was  to  begin 
his  great  service  to  the  Church  before 
even  setting  foot  on  American  soil. 

After  serving  an  honorable  mission 
in  the  British  Isles  Brother  Maeser  and 
his  wife  and  their  two  children  finally 
set  sail  for  the  new  world.  Two  days  out 
of  New  York  harbor  one  of  their  two 
children  departed  this  life.  On  July  4th, 
their  new  nation's  birthday,  they  ar- 
rived in  a  strange  land  to  bury  their 
child. 

After  this  heart-breaking  experience, 
the  Maesers  proceeded  to  Philadelphia, 
where  they  ran  out  of  money.  When, 
through  hard  work,  they  had  about  saved 
enough  to  renew  their  journey  to  Zion, 
Karl  was  called  on  another  mission — 
this  time  to  Virginia.  His  heroic  wife 
remained  in  Philadelphia.  In  Virginia, 
traveling  without  purse  or  script,  and 
not  being  very  vigorous  in  body,  he  often 


124 

Sunday,  October  12 

found  it  difficult,  with  little  food,  to 
make  the  long  walks  with  his  more  ro- 
bust companions.  Discouraged  and 
humiliated  he  sometimes  would  urge 
them  to  go  on  wtihout  him,  while  he 
slept  and  rested  beside  the  road.  But 
they  never  left  him  behind  and  he  never 
abandoned  them  in  spirit. 

One  day  while  in  the  city  of  Rich- 
mond, later  the  capital  of  the  Confeder- 
acy, he  was  seized  with  an  impulse  to 
enter  a  music  store  where  he  hoped 
they  would  let  him  play  a  piano — he 
loved  music.  While  in  this  store  a  dis- 
tinguished looking  customer  entered  and 
reauested  a  piano  demonstration.  The 
only  clerk  in  the  store  could  not  play 
one.  Brother  Maeser  volunteered.  On 
the  basis  of  Brother  Maeser's  demonstra- 
tion the  clerk  sold  the  best  piano  in 
the  shop.  The  distinguished  customer 
then  engaged  Brother  Maeser  to  eive 
piano  lessons  to  his  two  daughters.  This 
customer  was  ex-President  Tyler  of  the 
United  States.  With  the  monev  thus 
earned  in  giving  niano  lessons.  Brother 
Maeser  completed  another  honorable 
mission. 

Returning  to  his  family  in  Philadel- 
phia, he  again  worked  and  saved  for 
the  journey  to  Zion.  Although  he  was 
given  certain  responsibilities  in  his 
emigration  company,  he  had  neither  the 
experience  or  inclination  to  harness  the 
horses;  others  did  this  for  him. 

On  arriving  in  Salt  Lake  City  he  or- 
ganized a  private  school,  but  the  pio- 
neers had  so  little  to  pay  by  way  of 
tuition  that  he  and  his  family  almost 
starved.  While  reflecting  on  how  he 
could  make  a  better  living  he  one  day 
attended  a  Gene:  al  Conference  of  the 
Church.  There  he  heard  Brigham  Young 
call  out  his  name  as  having  been  des- 
ignated to  serve  a  third  mission — this 
time  to  his  native  Germany. 

The  story  is  told  that  as  he  left  home 
he  gave  to  his  wife  his  last  fifty  cent 
Diece.  In  Germany  he  tried  to  convert 
his  father  and  mother  and  other  rela- 
tives, but  failed.  He  did  not  believe  he 
had  been  outstanding  as  a  missionary. 
When  he  returned  home  his  wife  met 
him  at  the  door  and  returned  to  him 
the  fifty  cent  piece  he  had  left  with  her. 
Through  the  help  of  the  Saints  she  had 
actually  prospered  better  while  he  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

away  than  when  he  was  home.  I  have 
known  of  other  similar  situations. 

After  returning  from  his  third  mis- 
sion, he  again  organized  a  school,  being 
permitted  to  use  a  Ward  meetinghouse. 
One  day  this  meetinghouse  burned 
down.  Greatly  distraught,  he  sought  his 
Bishop,  Bishop  Sharp,  whom  he  found 
in  the  office  of  Brigham  Young.  With- 
out awaiting  to  be  announced,  he  burst 
in  the  office  and  told  them  of  the  catas- 
trophe which  had  occurred. 

President  Young  looked  at  him  and 
hoping  to  ease  his  anguish  said,  "Brother 
Maeser,  do  not  be  alarmed.  I  have  an- 
other mission  for  you."  Brother  Maeser 
looked  for  an  opening  in  the  floor  but 
could  not  find  one.  President  Young 
quickly  reassured  him  by  saying,  "We 
want  you  to  go  to  Provo  and  found  a 
Church  academy.  Will  you  come  back 
in  a  couple  of  days  and  let  me  know  if 
you  can  go?"  Brother  Maeser  was  back 
the  next  morning,  volunteering  to  go 
and  asking  for  instructions.  Having  been 
raised  in  the  Prussian  system  of  educa- 
tion, he  expected  a  long  series  of  written 
directions.  But  Brigham  Young  turned 
to  him  and  said,  "Brother  Maeser,  your 
instructions  are  only  these:  You  should 
teach  not  even  the  multiplication  tables 
or  the  alphabet  without  the  aid  and 
inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
That  is  all.  God  bless  you.  Goodbye." 

And  without  any  budget,  without  any 
arrangement  for  compensation,  no 
"union"  to  bargain  for  him  or  to  deprive 
him  of  his  free  agency,  Brother  Maeser 
went  to  Provo  and  there  met  his  first 
29  students.  The  minutes  of  their  first 
assembly  record  that  Brother  Maeser 
played  the  organ  and  led  them  in  sing- 
ing at  the  same  time.  He  then  gave 
them  a  short  sermon  in  which,  in  its 
entirety,  he  spoke  as  follows: 

"We  trust  you  all;  we  give  you  our 
confidence;  we  hope  you  will  do  nothing 
to  weaken  that  confidence.  We  put  you 
on  your  word  of  honor." 

From  those  simple  instructions  and 
that  humble  beginning,  Brother  Maeser, 
during  the  25  years  he  was  Principal  of 
Brigham  Young  Academy  and  later 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools,  often 
prophetically  proclaimed  that  the  time 
would  come  when  the  influence  of  that 
institution  would  extend  to  every  hearth- 


ELDER  ERNEST 

stone  of  the  Church.  If,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  you  came  to  the  Brigham 
Young  University  campus  now,  you 
would  know  that  that  prophecy  is  being 
fulfilled.  By  the  time  registration  closes 
this  coming  week  we  will  have  9900 
students  from  all  49  states  in  the  union, 
from  every  territory  and  from  some  40 
foreign  countries.  They  come  to  us  with 
a  variety  of  experiences;  some  from 
homes  of  wealth  even  judged  by 
worldly  standards;  some  from  homes 
of  adversity;  some  from  broken  homes; 
but  they  nearly  all  come  with  a 
religious  heritage  and  desire  to  learn 
more  of  the  revealed  word  of  God  so 
that  they  may  better  serve  their  fellow- 
men.  This  common  religious  heritage 
and  spiritual  yearning  transcends  all 
other  qualities,  and  the  motivation  aris- 
ing therefrom  overcomes  many  other 
obstacles. 

I  recall  one  little  girl  from  the  state 
of  Idaho  who  presented  herself  for  ad- 
mission a  few  years  ago.  We  had  given 
her  a  scholarship  for  all  of  her  tuition, 
otherwise  she  would  never  have  come 
because  she  had  a  widowed  mother  who 
had  the  sole  responsibility  of  providing 
for  a  large  family.  This  choice  daughter 
when  she  registered,  in  addition  to  her 
scholarship,  had  the  munificent  sum  of 
five  dollars  with  which  to  pay  her  year's 
expenses.  This  fine  girl,  with  her  spir- 
itual determination  and  innate  capacity, 
and  an  understanding  university  which 
helped  her  to  get  a  job,  finished  the  year 
with  flying  colors. 

Another  lovely  girl  transferred  from 
an  institution  of  higher  learning  in  Cali- 
fornia, where  she  had  been  elected  pres- 
ident of  her  home  economics  club.  I 
should  here  add  parenthetically  that  the 
last  time  we  made  a  count  we  had  on 
our  campus  1,689  students  who  had 
transferred  from  185  other  colleges  and 
universities.  They  are  anxious  and 
grateful  to  have  the  opportunity  to  at- 
tend an  institution  where  they  may 
obtain  not  only  secular  learning  but 
where  their  divine  spirit  may  also 
flourish  and  bloom. 

And  so  it  was  with  this  beautiful  girl 
who  had  transferred  from  a  fine  insti- 
tution of  higher  learning  in  California. 
Anxious  to  know  why  she  had  trans- 


L.  WILKINSON  125 

ferred  from  a  school  where  she  had 
received  outstanding  recognition,  I 
sought  her  out  and  obtained  this  story: 
Her  mother  was  born  in  Pleasant  View, 
just  north  of  Ogden,  where  both  of  her 
parents  died  while  she  was  yet  a  small 
child.  Thereafter  she  was  an  itinerant 
boarder  living  first  with  one  relative, 
then  with  another.  As  a  young  woman 
her  mother  found  herself  living  in  a 
timber  camp  in  California.  There,  with- 
out any  Church  influence  to  sustain  her, 
she  married  outside  of  the  Church, 
thinking,  as  do  all  those  who  make  this 
mistake,  that  when  children  came  she 
and  her  husband,  who  belonged  to  the 
largest  professing  Christian  church  of 
our  time,  would  be  able  to  resolve  their 
religious  differences  and  agree  upon  the 
religious  life  of  their  children. 

When,  however,  the  first  child,  a  son, 
was  born,  the  father  insisted  on  christen- 
ing him  in  his  church.  When  the  second 
child  came,  likewise  a  son,  the  father 
again  insisted  on  his  rights.  When  the 
third  child,  the  daughter  who  had  now 
registered  at  Brigham  Young  University, 
arrived,  the  mother  had  her  baptized  a 
member  of  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  fourth 
child,  also  a  daughter,  was  also  bap- 
tized a  member  of  our  Church.  So  this 
fine  transferee  girl  belonged  to  a  divided 
family — the  father  and  two  sons  belong- 
ing to  a  church  which  centuries  ago 
apostatized  from  the  faith,  and  the 
mother  and  two  daughters  being  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  as  originally  organ- 
ized by  Christ,  which  in  this  day,  the 
fullness  of  times,  has  been  restored  to 
the  earth  with  all  its  pristine  purity  and 
authority.  After  having  completed  three 
years  at  the  California  college,  her 
mother  came  to  her  and  asked  her  if 
she  would  finish  her  education  at  the 
Church  University.  And  she  looked  at 
me  and  said,  "President  Wilkinson,  that 
was  the  first  request  of  a  serious  nature 
my  mother  had  ever  made  of  me,  and 
I  could  not  say  no." 

At  Thanksgiving  time  she  came  to 
my  office  with  her  father  and  a  brother, 
members  of  the  apostate  Church.  At 
the  beginning  of  the  winter  quarter  she 
came  to  my  office  and  told  me  that 
her  brother  had  registered  at  the  Brigham 
Young  University.   As  I  passed  down 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  12 

the  line  of  march  at  graduation,  in  June 
she  stepped  out  of  line  to  inform  me 
that  the  day  before  her  brother,  im- 
pressed by  his  association  on  our  cam- 
pus, had  been  baptized  a  member  of 
our  Church.  [Since  delivering  this  in- 
formal talk  I  have  been  informed  that 
the  other  brother  and  father  have  now 
been  baptized  members  of  our  Church, 
a  tribute  to  a  mother  who  never  let  her 
faith  burn  out,  and  to  a  dutiful  daughter 
who  attended  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity. The  Author.J 

1  would  not  have  you  think  from  this 
rich  story  that  we  have  no  students  at 
the  Brigham  Young  University  having 
religious  problems.  We  do,  tor  youth 
always  has  been  the  period  of  religious 
skepticism  and  doubt  and  at  the  same 
time,  with  proper  enlightenment,  the 
period  of  greatest  understanding,  faith 
and  religious  resolve  and  performance. 
Most  ot  our  students  having  religious 
problems,  however,  are  those  struggling 
to  throw  off  the  shackles  of  darkness 
ot  other  faiths,  once  they  see  the  sun- 
shine of  the  restored  Gospel.  And  I 
don't  want  you  to  think  that  the  time 
of  persecution  for  one  changing  his  faith 
is  over,  just  two  weeks  ago  1  had  an 
earnest  young  man  call  me  on  the  tele- 
phone one  evening.  He  wanted  to  see 
me  at  once.  I  could  tell  he  was  dis- 
turbed, so  I  invited  him  to  my  office. 
With  tears  streaming  from  his  cheeks 
he  told  me  that  the  day  before  he  had 
been  physically  beaten  by  both  his  lather 
and  mother,  members  of  an  apostate 
Christian  faith,  because  he  had  con- 
fessed he  had  been  attending  a  Mormon 
Sunday  School  and  was  interested  in 
joining  the  Mormon  Church  and  enroll- 
ing at  Brigham  Young  University.  After 
the  beating  he  was  ejected  from  their 
home  with  only  the  clothes  he  had  on 
his  back,  denied  the  right  to  return  for 
his  other  clothes  or  for  his  1950  model 
Ford  which  he  had  purchased  with  his 
own  money.  The  next  morning  he  went 
to  the  bank  to  draw  out  his  summer 
earnings,  which  he  intended  to  use  for 
enrollment  at  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity, only  to  find  his  mother  had  already 
been  there  and  drawn  it  out,  for  they 
had  a  joint  account.  Homeless,  dis- 
inherited, penniless,  but  having  seen  the 
vision  of  a  new  light  in  a  Mormon  Sun- 


Third  Dat 

day  School,  he  wanted  to  know  if  the 
way  could  not  still  be  opened  so  that 
he  could  drink  further  of  the  living 
waters  at  the  Brigham  Young  University. 
The  next  day  I  told  of  this  experience 
at  a  Stake  Conference  of  one  of  the 
Stakes  in  Provo.  Before  I  had  arrived 
home  after  the  Conference  the  sole 
remaining  daughter  of  Uncle  Jesse 
Knight  had  called  to  say  she  would  be 
honored  to  provide  financial  help  for 
this  young  man.  God  bless  her,  for 
thanks  to  her  help  this  young  man  is 
now  enrolled  at  the  BYU.  And  when 
he  marries  a  sweet  Mormon  girl,  which 
I  am  certain  will  eventuate,  and  they 
have  children,  there  will  not  be  the  in- 
tolerance, bigotry  and  anti-Christian 
hatred  in  their  home  that  at  the  present 
time  darkens  and  demoralizes  the  so- 
called  home  of  his  mother  and  father. 

These  absorbing  stories,  of  which 
there  are  many  and  variant  counter- 
parts at  the  BYU,  prompt  me  to  ex- 
plain that  while  about  96%  of  our  stu- 
dents are  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have 
about  400  students  who  come  from  more 
than  25  different  religious  faiths.  Ap- 
proximately one-fourth  of  them  are 
baptized  into  our  Church  while  they  are 
on  our  campus;  another  one-fourth  after 
they  leave;  and  we  have  written  testi- 
monials from  scores  of  others  that  their 
lives  were  changed  for  the  good  during 
the  time  they  were  students  at  the  Brig- 
ham Young  University. 

We  are  proud  of  the  fact  that  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  with- 
in the  last  few  years  have  organized 
a  great  Stake  of  Zion,  24  Wards,  on  our 
campus,  and  if  you  should  come  down 
there  this  evening,  or  if  you  come  on  any 
Sunday,  you  will  find  almost  as  many 
students  on  our  campus  as  you  do  any 
other  day  of  the  week.  I  say  "almost" 
because  only  about  8,000  students  be- 
long to  our  Stake,  the  others  living  at 
home  and  maintaining  their  membership 
in  their  home  Wards. 

The  BYU  Stake  would  be  a  paradise 
for  any  Stake  President.  Imagine  having 
24  wards,  8000  members  and  no  build- 
ing program  to  undertake,  because  the 
members  can  all  be  accommodated  for 
religious  purposes  in  the  buildings  of 
the  University.  I  boasted  about  that  in 
a  BYU  Stake  Conference  one  day,  point- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


127 


ing  out  we  had  saved  the  Church  at 
least  $1,500,000  in  construction  costs  for 
Ward  meetinghouses.  Brother  Henry  D. 
Moyle  of  the  Executive  Committee  of 
the  BYU  heard  me  make  that  statement, 
and  when  he  arose  to  speak,  stated,  "I 
suppose  President  Wilkinson  will  now 
come  to  the  next  meeting  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity and  ask  for  another  million  and 
a  half  dollars  for  academic  buildings." 
Under  the  circumstances  I  thought  that 
honesty  was  the  best  policy  and  informed 
him  that  I  was  already  preparing  a 
speech  to  support  the  request.  With  this 
unexpected  frankness  on  my  part  he 
agreed  to  go  along  with  the  request. 

May  I,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in 
conclusion  express  our  gratitude  for  your 
support  and  confidence  in  us,  not  only 
at  the  Brigham  Young  University,  but 
also  for  your  confidence  and  support 
of  all  the  various  units  of  the  Unified 
Church  School  System.  Not  only  do 
we  have  9900  students  at  the  Brigham 
Young  University  this  fall,  which  will 
grow  to  over  11,500  before  the  year  is 
ended,  but  we  have  approximately  an- 
other thousand  college  students  at  Ricks 
College. 

This  year,  also,  there  will  be  around 
8,000  Latter-day  Saint  students  enrolled 
in  religious  courses  of  university  grade 
at  56  Mormon  Institutes  of  Religion 
adjacent  to  56  other  colleges  or  univer- 
sities, which  include  all  of  the  major 
institutions  of  higher  learning,  save  one, 
in  the  eleven  Western  States  and  the 
Province  of  Alberta,  Canada.  This  is 
an  increase  of  40  colleges  or  universities 
at  which  we  have  organized  Latter-day 


Saint  Institutes  of  Religion  in  the  last 
five  years.  In  our  time  Latter-day  Saint 
Institutes  of  Religion  will  be  organized 
all  the  way  from  New  England  and 
Florida  on  the  East  to  Alaska  and  the 
southernmost  area  of  California  on  the 
West,  and  in  foreign  countries.  Already 
we  have  requsets  for  such  institutions 
from  our  students  at  the  University  of 
Florida  and  from  our  Saints  in  Germany 
and  Hong  Kong. 

This  year,  also,  religious  classes  are 
being  given  for  approximately  50,000 
Latter-day  Saint  high  school  students 
in  Seminaries  connected  with  713  high 
schools  extending  all  the  way  from 
Maryland  on  the  East  to  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  on  the  West.  I  hope  your  child 
is  one  of  those  50,000  choice  spirits. 

By  the  year  2000  A.D.  we  expect  stu- 
dents in  our  Church  institutions  of  sec- 
ondary and  higher  education  to  more 
than  quadruple.  Truly  for  our  young 
people  the  "glory  of  God  is  intelligence." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  appreciate 
the  significance  of  this  great  educational 
system;  may  we  have  the  inspiration  to 
carry  on  under  the  simple  but  powerful 
instructions  of  Brigham  Young,  that  we 
shall  do  nothing  without  the  aid  and 
inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  to  us  is  Dr. 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  president  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University  at  Provo, 
Utah. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  come 
to  the  closing  exercises  of  a  great  con- 
ference. My  soul,  with  yours,  has  been 
filled  with  thanksgiving  and  gratitude 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  outpour- 
ings of  his  Holy  Spirit.  We  have  heard 
some  great  messages  from  the  leaders 
of  this  Church,  and  what  I  have  no- 
ticed with  great  satisfaction,  are  the 
receptive  audiences,  showing  that  the 
messages  were  received  graciously,  with 
gratitude. 


At  noon  today,  there  came  to  me  the 
memory  of  something  I  had  read  years 
ago  in  a  book  entitled,  The  Simple  Life, 
written  by  Charles  Wagner.    He  said: 

"Your  religion  is  good — first,  if  it  is 
vital  and  active;  second,  if  it  nourishes 
in  you  confidence,  hope,  love,  and  a 
sentiment  of  the  infinite  value  of  exist- 
ence; third,  if  it  is  allied  with  what  is 
best  in  you  against  what  is  worst,  and 
holds  forever  before  you  the  necessity 
of  becoming  a  new  man;  fourth,  if  it 


128 

Sunday,  October  12 

makes  you  understand  that  pain  is  a 
deliverer;  fifth,  if  it  increases  your  re- 
spect for  the  conscience  of  others;  and 
sixth,  if  it  renders  forgiveness  more  easy, 
fortune  less  arrogant,  duty  more  dear; 
the  beyond  less  visionary." 

The  gospel  when  obeyed  does  all  that 
and  more.  To  this  every  true  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  can  bear  witness. 

I  love  these  associates  of  the  General 
Authorities,  and  love  them  in  the  spirit 
of  the  true  meaning  of  that  word,  the 
love  of  the  brotherhood  of  Christ.  God 
bless  them  and  bless  their  wives  and 
their  children  that  the  ideals  that  make 
for  the  dignity  of  manhood,  that  lead 
into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  may  eventually  continue  to  be 
perpetuated  in  our  homes,  in  our  asso- 
ciation with  our  business  fellows,  and 
in  all  our  travels. 

God  bless  Zion,  the  pure  in  heart. 
God  bless  our  friends  with  whom  we 
associate,  who  are  contributing,  too,  to 
the  advancement  of  this  great  Church. 
We  appreciate  their  fellowship. 

God  bless  those  who  speak  evil  against 
us  because  they  do  not  know  us,  and 
give  us  charity  in  our  hearts  for  them, 
and  may  he  enlighten  their  minds  and 
open  the  vision  of  their  souls  that  they 
may  see  Christ's  Church  as  it  is  and 
that  for  which  it  stands.  Hasten  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  when  peace  shall 
reign  and  the  kingdom  of  God  be  estab- 
lished, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "Worthy  Is  The  Lamb,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 
The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Kenneth  B.  Dyer,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  West  German  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
for  six  months. 

The  singing,  as  you  know,  for  this 
afternoon  has  been  furnished  by  the 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and 
you  have  thrilled  with  the  excellency 
of  their  singing. 

We  express  appreciation  and  gratitude 
for  the  public  press,  the  reporters'  fair 
and  accurate  reports  throughout  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sessions  of  our  Conference;  for  the  co- 
operation of  City  officials,  Police  Chief 
W.  Cleon  Skousen,  traffic  officers  in 
handling  the  increased  traffic,  for  the 
Fire  Department,  and  the  Red  Cross 
standing  ready  for  any  emergency. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  ushers 
of  the  Tabernacle  who  have  rendered 
service  early  and  late  in  seating  the  great 
audiences;  especially  for  the  radio  and 
television  service  rendered  by  the  various 
radio  and  television  stations  here  in  our 
own  city  and  state  and  in  other  states 
named  in  the  various  sessions  of  the 
Conference.  All  have  been  the  means 
of  permitting  untold  thousands  of  people 
to  hear  the  proceedings  of  this,  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church. 

We  appreciate  the  singers  throughout 
this  entire  Conference,  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  three  Southern 
California  regions,  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  last  night  thrilled 
us,  and  today  this  great  Tabernacle 
Choir.  They  leave  October  20th  for  a 
23-day  tour  to  major  cities  of  the  eastern 
United  States,  including  Wichita,  Kan- 
sas; Kansas  City,  Missouri;  Columbus, 
Ohio;  Washington,  D.  C;  Baltimore, 
Philadelphia,  New  York,  Boston;  Toron- 
to, Canada;  Detroit,  Chicago;  and  St. 
Louis,  Missouri.  Brother  Condie,  mem- 
bers of  the  Choir,  Brother  Hewlett,  and 
the  other  officers,  you  have  our  prayers 
and  best  wishes  for  your  success  on  this 
memorable  tour. 

The  beautiful  flowers  which  you  see 
arranged  on  the  stand  and  pulpit  have 
come  from  two  countries  far  removed 
from  each  other — South  Africa  and  Ha- 
waii. What  we  have  said  in  other  ses- 
sions we  now  repeat,  and  send  greetings 
and  thanks  to  those  who  so  graciously 
furnished  us  with  these  beautiful 
flowers. 

Tonight,  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  seven  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance. The  public  is  cordially 
invited. 

The  Choir  will  now  sign,  "Worthy  Is 
The  Lamb,"  and  the  benediction  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Kenneth  B.  Dyer, 
and  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
sine  die. 


GENERAL..C 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting, 
"Worthy  Is  The  Lamb." 

Elder  Kenneth  B.  Dyer,  formerly  pres- 
ident of  the  West  German  Mission, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  and 
Saturday  morning  and  afternoon  ses- 
sions was  furnished  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  three  Southern 
California  regions,  with  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen  conducting. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
Saturday  evening  the  music  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 


INFERENCE  129 

Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Richard  P. 
Condie  as  director,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
music  for  the  Sunday  sessions,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Director  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  and  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Director,  conducting. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON  TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 

BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  October  12,  1958, 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew  From 
Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal  the 
Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the  hymn, 
"Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain,"  sing- 
ing the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for 
announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  affil- 
iated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

First  from  the  Choir  we  hear  music 
from  Mendelssohn's  Elijah,  with  words 
of  gratitude  for  the  rain  that  fell  upon 
the  parched  land,  to  save  a  repentant 
people:  "Thanks  be  to  God!  He  laveth 
the  thirsty  land!  The  waters  gather; 
they  rush  along:  .  .  .  The  stormy  billows 
are  high;  their  fury  is  mighty.  But  the 
Lord  is  above  them,  and  almighty! 
Thanks  be  to  God!" 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Thanks  Be  To 
God." — Mendelssohn. ) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
Tabernacle  Organ  on  Temple  Square 
today  we  hear  one  of  the  celebrated 
Psalm  settings  of  Benedetto  Marcello 
from  the  16th  century:  "Allegretto." 

(Organ  selection:  "Allegretto."  — 
Marcello.) 

Announcer:  From  the  Requiem  by 
Brahms,  the  Choir  sings  these  worship- 
ful words:  "How  lovely  is  Thy  dwelling 


place,  O  Lord  of  Hosts!  For  my  soul  it 
longeth,  yea,  fainteth,  for  the  courts  of 
the  Lord;  My  soul  crieth  out,  yea,  for 
the  living  God!"  "How  Lovely  Is  Thy 
Dwelling  Place." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "How  Lovely  Is 
Thy  Dwelling  Place."— Brahms.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  next  recalls 
from  Temple  Square  a  "Prayer"  from  his 
album  of  devotional  organ  music. 

(Organ  selection:  "Prayer." — Asper.) 

Announcer:  With  the  music  of 
Charles  Gounod,  Richard  P.  Condie  now 
conducts  the  Choir  in  these  meaningful 
words  from  a  New  Testament  text:  "O 
Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  Thou  that  killest 
the  prophets  and  stonest  them,  which 
are  sent  unto  thee,  How  often  would  I 
have  gathered  thy  children  together 
even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens 
under  her  wings  and  ye  would  not." 
"O  Turn  Thee  To  The  Lord  Thy  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "O  Turn  Thee."— 
Gounod.) 

Announcer:  It  takes  many  kinds  of 
courage  to  live  through  life — the  courage 
to  face  facts,  to  solve  problems;  the 
courage  to  accept  assignments,  to  stay 
with  what  we  have  started,  the  courage 
to  follow  through;  the  courage  to  pre- 
serve principles,  and  sometimes  to  fight 
for  them.  And  there  are  times,  paradox- 
ically, that  call  for  another  kind  of 
courage — even  the  courage  to  run  away. 
It  is  this  kind  of  courage  that  we  would 
talk  of  for  a  moment  or  two,  first  re- 
calling an  example  of  it  in  the  decision 
that  saved  Joseph  in  Egypt  when  Poti- 
phar's  wife  enticed  and  tempted  him — 
"But  he  refused  and  said  unto  his  mas- 
ter's wife  .  .  .  how  then  can  I  do  this 
great  wickedness,  and  sin  against  God? 
.  .  .  and  he  fled,  and  got  him  out."1 
And  then  the  record  reads  that  "the 
Lord  was  with  Joseph,  and  shewed  him 
mercy,  and  gave  him  favour"1 — because 
he  had  the  strength,  the  courage,  to 
resist  an  evil  invitation,  even  the  cour- 
age to  "flee,  and  get  out."  Some  light- 
ness of  humor  has  sometimes  been 
suggested  in  walking  back  from  rides 

iGenesis  39:8,  9,  12,  21. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


131 


rather  than  yielding  to  improper  pro- 
posals. But  the  courage  to  walk  out 
away  from  moral  compromise  is  a  high 
kind  of  courage:  the  courage  to  remain 
virtuous,  to  preserve  chastity;  the  cour- 
age to  sever  an  undesirable  association. 
There  are  many  enticements  in  life, 
many  temptations — to  compromise  prin- 
ciples, to  come  with  the  crowd,  to  follow 
false  fashions,  to  play  for  popular  ap- 
proval. And  while  it  is  generally  good 
to  be  as  pleasant  with  people  as  possible, 
it  is  never  good  to  be  agreeable  to  enter 
into  any  act  of  evil.  There  is  an  old 
saying  that  misery  likes  company.  And 
evil  does  also — and  it  doesn't  easily  let 
loose.  And  it  sometimes  takes  a  special 
kind  of  courage  on  the  part  of  young 
people  to  turn  from  ridicule,  from  the 
pointing  of  fingers,  from  the  accusation 
of  being  afraid  to  take  a  dare — to  do 
what  shouldn't  be  done.  Yes,  life  re- 
quires many  kinds  of  courage — the 
courage  to  turn  back,  to  swallow  pride, 
to  admit  a  mistake,  to  repent,  to  forgive, 
to  be  reconciled,  to  leave  bad  habits 
behind.  Courage  is  required  sometimes 
to  retreat,  and  sometimes  to  stay  and 
stand.  But  at  that  precarious  moment 
when  the  odds  of  evil  are  uppermost, 
we  may  most  need  the  courage  to  walk 
out,  to  close  the  door,  to  leave  the  evil 
environment,  even  as  did  a  young  man 
in  ancient  Egypt,  who  "fled,  and  got 
him  out." 

(Organ  selection:  "O  My  Father." 
Tune:  "Harwell." — Mason.) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
organ  we  have  heard  an  old  hymn  tune, 
"Harwell,"  by  Lowell  Mason,  to  which 


the  words  of  "O  My  Father"  have  some- 
times been  sung. 

And  now  the  Choir  closes  with  Wil- 
liam Cowper's  hymn  of  strengthening, 
heartening  comfort  and  conviction,  with 
the  music  by  William  B.  Bradbury: 
"God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way,  His 
wonders  to  perform:  He  plants  His 
footsteps  in  the  sea,  And  rides  upon  the 
storm.  Deep  in  unfathomable  mines  Of 
never  failing  skill,  He  treasures  up  his 
bright  designs  And  works  his  sov'reign 
will.  Ye  fearful  Saints,  fresh  courage 
take;  The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread  Are 
big  with  mercy  and  shall  break  In  bless- 
ings on  your  head.  Judge  not  the  Lord 
by  feeble  sense,  But  trust  him  for  his 
grace;  Behind  a  frowning  providence 
He  hides  a  smiling  face." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "God  Moves  In  A 
Mysterious  Way." — Bradbury.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  fifteen  hundred 
twenty-first  presentation  continuing  the 
30th  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  origi- 
nating with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at  the 
organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


■ 


INDEX 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    38 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present  _   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   42 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   98 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   61 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   117 

Changes  in  Church  Organizations   38 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   130 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   45 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   80 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   42 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   49 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R  _   51 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  — .  58 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   130 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   20 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained  ,   42 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   75 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   107 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  ,   12 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R  _   26 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   64 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  _  ,   9 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   53 

Longden,  Elder  John  _   68 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   114 

McKay,  President  David  0   86 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   90 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   127 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   3,  5,  9,  12,  14,  16,  19,  20,  22,  24,  26, 

30,  34,  36,  37,  38,  42,  44,  47,  48,  51,  53,  57,  58,  60, 
63,  64,  68, 70,  72,  74,  75,  77,  80, 83,  86,  89,  90,  94,  97, 

98,  102,  105,  107,  110,  114,  117,  120,  122,  127,  128 


INDEX 


Page 


Morris,  Elder  George  Q   70 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   34 

Obituaries    42 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  _   14 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    42 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   _   75 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    110 

Richards,  Bishop  Stephen  G   78 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    5 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   94 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   _   37 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    58 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W  _   102 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   22 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    20 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    24 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   16 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   42 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    130 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   120 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    89 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    107 

Tuttle,  Elder  Albert  Theodore   47 

Wilkinson,  Elder  Ernest  L   122 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  B   75 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   30 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  „   63 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    72 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


