SIXTY=EIGHTH 


I- 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS, 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  4th,  5th  and  6th,  1897, 
with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO.    AN   ACCOUNT   OF  THE 


General  Conference  ™  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 


Desrret  News  Publishing  Company. 
1897. 


General  Conference 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST    DA  V- 


The  Sixty-eighth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.m. 
on  Monday,  October  4,  1897,  President 
Wilford  Woodruff  presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present  on 
the  stand  there  were  of  the  First 
Presidency — Wilford  Woodruff,  George 
Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph  x  .  Smith;  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles — 
Lorenzo  Snow,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill 
and  Anthon  H.  Lund;  Patriarch  John 
Smith;  of  the  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  Seventies — Seymour  B.  Young,  C. 
D.  Fjelsted,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds  and  Jonathan  G.  Kimball; 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric — William 
B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and 
John   R. Winder. 

Heber  J.  Grant  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  was  absent  in  consequence 
of  his  being  in  feeble  health. 

Conference  called  to  order  by  Presi- 
dent George  Q.  Cannon. 

The  choir  sang: 
"Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 

Zion  kept  by  power  divine; 
All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 

Though  the  world  in    arms  com- 
bine." 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Anthon  H. 
Lund. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 
"Captain  of  Israel's  host,  and  Guide 
Of  all  who  seek  the  land  above. 
Beneath  the  shadow  we  abide — 
The  cloud  of  Thy  protecting  love.'; 


PREST.  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 

OPENING  REMARKS. 

I  thank  God  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  I  have  again  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the 
capacity  of  a  Semi-Annual  Conference. 
This  is  our  Sixty-eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference.  We  have  passed  through 
a  great  variety  of  history  from  the 
organization  of  the  Church  until  the 
pi-esent  day.  I  trust  that  while  we 
are  assembled  together  during  this 
Conference  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be 
with  us,  and  with  the  Apostles  and 
Elders  who  are  called  upon  to  speak 
to  us",  that  we  may  be  edified  by  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  and  be  pre- 
pared for  that  work  which  still  rests 
upon  us  to  carry  out.  We  have  a 
great  work  upon  our  hands.  It  has 
been  a  labor  from  the  organization  of 
the  Church  until  the  present  time.  We 
have  the  world  to  preach  to.  That  is 
one  of  the  duties  God  requires  at  the 
hands  of  the  Elders  of  Israel.  We  are 
held  responsible  for  this  work  and  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  ac- 
cording to  the  best  light  and  knowl- 
edge and  revelation  which  God  has 
given  unto  us.  We  ought  to  be  thankful 
to  the  Lord  for  His  mercies  unto  us. 
I  feel  as  though  His  hand  has  beer 
visible  in  the  establishing  of  His 
Church  here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
from  our  first  arrival  as  Pioneers  in 
the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  when 
we  found  a  barren  desert,   until  the 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


present.  The  hand  of  the  Lord  has 
been  with  this  people  and  with  the 
Elders  of  Israel,  and  will  continue  to 
be.  The  Lord  is  in  earnest,  in  fulfill- 
ment of  His  promises  from  the  crea- 
tion of  the  world  down  to  this  day, 
with  regard  to  His  dispensations  to 
man.  I  hope  and  trust  that  while  we 
dwell  in  the  flesh  we  all  may  realize 
and  understand  this.  It  is  a  great 
blessing  to  receive  the  Gospel  of 
Christ,  to  receive  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
and  to  be  called  to  labor  in  the  Priest- 
hood for  the  salvation  of  the  children 
of  men.  This  labor  is  upon  us  and  will 
remain  upon  us  until  the  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man  in  the  clouds  of 
heaven,  to  reward  every  man  accord- 
ing to  the  deeds  done  in  the  body. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  and  to  pour 
out  His  Spirit  upon  us  all,  that  while 
we  are  assembled  together  in  this  ca- 
pacity we  may  have  union  of  heart 
and  spirit,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  rest- 
ing upon  us,  to  dictate  and  direct  us 
in  our  labors.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Missionary  Work  Effective.— Good  Effect  of  Con- 
ferences.—Object  of  the  Saints  to  Build  up  Zion 

I  am  pleased  to  have  the  privilege 
this  morning  of  meeting  with  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  of  hearing 
our  President  address  us.  I  am  glaa 
that  he  is  with  us  and  able  to  talk  so 
that  we  can  all  hear  him.  This  has 
been  our  Jubilee  year— fifty  .years 
since  we  arrived  in  these  mountains, 
and  we  have  all  reflected  more  or 
less  upon  the  history  of  Zion  since 
the  people  arrived  here  when  this  re- 
gion was  a  wilderness.  We  have 
made  comparisons  between  today  and 
then,  and  all  have,  no  doubt,  felt  to 
thank  the  Lord  that  He  has  so  richly 
blessed  His  people,  and  though 
they  have  gone  through  times  of  trial, 
yet  they  have  seen  His  overruling 
providences  in  their  behalf.  Zion  has 
prospered;  the  people  have  been 
blessed,  both  temporally  and  spirit- 
ually; and  while  they  have  tried  to 
build  up  Zion  at  home,  they  have  not 
forgotten  the  great  duty  resting  upon 
them  of  sending  men  to  the  different 
nations  to  preach  the  Gospel.  And 
the  Lord  has  been  with  them,  so  that 
they    have    been  able  to  bring  thou- 


sands into  the  fold  of  Christ.  The 
best  of  reports  are  coming  to  us  from 
the  different  missions,  showing  that  the 
Lord  is  still  with  His  servants,  and 
that  their  efforts  are  crowned  with 
more  success  than  has  attended  their 
labors  for  many  years  past.  This  makes 
us  rejoice,  seeing  the  work  of  God 
prospering. 

We  have  come  together  this  morn- 
ing to  attend  our  Conference.  I  have 
often  thought  what  a  great  blessing 
to  the  Saints  are  these  conferences, 
bringing  them  together  from  the 
different  parts  of  Zion,  to  where  they 
can  renew  their  old  acquaintances, 
and  where  they  can  meet  together 
under  the  spirit  and  influence  of  the 
Lord,  and  listen  to  instructions  given 
them  which  are  calculated  for  their 
best  good.  These  are  times  of  refresh- 
ing unto  the  Saints.  And  this  is  not 
something  which  has  been  evolved  out 
of  the  system  that  God  has  revealed; 
but  it  was  at  first  ordained  and  ap- 
pointed unto  the  Saints  to  come  to- 
gether on  these  occasions.  There  its 
this  difference  between  the  work  of 
God  and  the  work  of  man — the  worK 
of  God  has  a  perfect  Author,  what 
He  commands  is  not  an  experimental 
thing,  but  is  something  that  was  seen 
beforehand.  The  consequences  were 
known  before  the  law  was  given.  By 
studying  the  word  of  God  as  given 
through  His  prophets,  we  find  that  He 
knew  as  well  thousands  of  years  ago 
what  was  for  the  best  good  of  His 
people  as  today,  and  that  when  the 
prophets  spoke  of  Zion  they  saw  it, 
understood  how  it  should  be  built,  and 
could  foretell  the  Lord's  dealings 
with  His  people. 

We  have  come  to  this  country  to 
build  up  a  Zion  unto  our  God.  I  hope 
that  we  have  not  forgotten  the  object 
of  our  coming.  I  hope  that  we  can  be 
classed  among  the  laborers  in  Zion. 
The  Lord  has  declared  that  the  labor- 
er in  Zion  shall  work  for  Zion,  and  he 
adds,  "if  they  labor  for  money,  they 
shall  perish."  I  believe  it  is  the 
Prophet  Nephi  who  wrote  these  words. 
He  wrote  them  in  a  chapter 
that  is  devoted  to  our  time.  After 
having  described  what  should  come  to 
pass  between  his  day  and  the  present 
period  of  time,    he  speaks  of  the  com- 


ELDER  ANT  HON  H  LbND 


3 


ing  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
of  Zion.  I  have  often  thought  how 
strange  it  is  that  men  cannot  see  the 
internal  evidence  which  the  Book  of 
Mormon  contains  of  its  truth,  when 
they  can  read  passages  so  plain. 

The  idea  of  building  up  a  Zion  was 
not  a  common  idea  among  the  different 
denominations  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
acquainted  with.  Men  have  thought 
that  Mormonism  is  a  system  made  up 
of  other  religions.  We  deny  this.  We 
hold  that  it  is  given  of  God;  that  it  is 
the  same  Gospel,  the  everlasting  Gos- 
pel, as  given  in  former  days  to  the 
people,  and  again  restored  today. 
When  you  examine  the  Gospel  as 
restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
you  find  that  it  has  many  character- 
istics which  are  not  found  among 
other  denominations  or  religions. 
The  idea  of  gathering  was  not  be- 
lieved in  by  any  of  the  religious  peo- 
ple then;  but  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
published  before  this  Church  was  or- 
ganized, we  are  plainly  told  that  there 
should  be  a  gathering;  that  the  peo- 
ple should  be  gathered  from  the  differ- 
ent nations  of  the  earth. 

The  Prophet  Nephi,  in  speaking  of 
Zion,  gives  us  characteristics  that 
should  be  found  in  the  Zion  of  the 
latter  days.  Among  them  was  that 
there  should  not  be  priestcraft;  and 
he  defines  priestcraft  as  preaching  for 
gain  and  for  influence  among  the  peo- 
ple. This  the  Lord  forbids.  He  says 
that  the  people  should  work  for 
Zion.  That  should  be  the  object  of 
their  coming  together,  the  one  aim 
and  purpose  of  their  lives — to  work  for 
Zion,  and  not  to  make  anything  else 
the  object  of  their  lives.  If  they  make 
money  their  object,  He  says  they  shall 
perish.  How  often  have  we  seen  this 
fulfilled!  Those  who  have  forgotten 
why  the  Lord  called  them  from  their 
homes  and  gathered  them  here,  and 
who  have  made  money  their 
sole  object,  have  perished  spir- 
itually; they  have  lost  the 
faith  which  was  once  so  strong  in 
their  breasts  that  they  were  able  to 
leave  everything  that  was  dear  unto 
them  and  gather  here.  We  want  to 
take  this  lesson  to  heart.  We  want  to 
be  laborers  in  Zion,  and  work  for  the 


cause  of  Zion,  and  not  for  other  ob- 
jects—that is,  not  to  make  them  the 
only  objects  of  our  lives.  It  is  not  for- 
bidden us  to  work  for  money.  We 
have  to  do  this,  to  make  our  living; 
but  the  Prophet  meant  that  we  must 
not  make  it  the  sole  aim  of  our 
lives,  to  enrich  ourselves  and  gain 
wealth.  The  love  of  money  is  the  root 
of  all  evil,  has  been  said,  and  said  truly. 
Not  the  money  itself ;  for  rightly  used, 
I  believe  it  is  a  blessing.  But  I  am 
afraid  that  many  are  not  willing  to 
use  this  blessing  aright.  We  certainly 
should  not  make  it  the  one  thing  that 
we  seek.  We  want  to  place  our  labors 
where  they  can  do  the  most  good  for 
the  upbuilding  of  Zion  upon  the 
earth.  If  we  seek  first  the  kingdom  or 
God  and  His  righteousness,  these 
other  things,  He  has  promised,  shall 
be  added.  We  have  found  the  king- 
dom of  God;  but  we  want  also  His 
righteousness.  That  means  that  we 
do  right  in  all  things  between  man 
and  man,  and  that  we  do  not  forgec 
to  do  right  towards  our  Heavenly 
Father,   and  also  towards  ourselves. 

The  Lord  has  asked  us  to  do  certain 
things.  We  will  find  that  they  are  for 
our  own  good.  These  commandments 
have  been  given  by  a  kind  Father  to 
His  children.  He  has  seen  our  condi- 
tions and  our  circumstances,  and 
what  He  has  ordained  has  been  calcu- 
lated for  our  greatest  benefit.  When 
such  is  the  case,  we  should  all  feel  that 
we  want  to  keep  His  commandments. 
We  want  to  benefit  ourselves.  In 
fact,  this  feeling  is  so  strong  with  us 
that  often  we  forget  what  is  righteous- 
ness, on.  account  of  our  selfishness. 
But  if  we  will  work  truly  for  our  own 
benefit,  then  we  will  keep  the  laws  of 
God,  we  will  seek  His  righteousness, 
we  will  try  to  build  up  His  Zion  upon 
the  earth,  and  we  will  listen  to  the 
counsels  which  He  gives  us  through 
His  servants.  If  we  do  this,  the  great- 
est amount  of  happiness  will  be  ours, 
and  we  will  be  able  to  do  our  share 
towards  carrying  out  God's  purposes 
on  the  earth. 

May  God  bless  His  Saints.  May  His 
kingdom  prosper.  May  His  servants 
be  blessed  in  their  labors.  This  is  niy 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

The  Divine  Origin  of  the  Church,— Officers  not 
Self-appointed, —  Profanity  Condemned, — Obedi- 
ence Brings  Harmony, — Each  May  Have  a  Wit- 
ness of  the  Truth, — A  Prediction  Fulfilled,— 
Safety  in  Counsel. 

I  have  an  evidence  of  the  truth  of 
this  work.  I  have  a  testimony  from 
the  Lord.  I  know  that  this  work  is 
true.  I  know  that  Joseph  the  Prophet 
was  chosen  as  an  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  to  establish  the 
Gospel  in  the  earth  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. I  had  evidence  of  this  a  great 
.many  years  ago.  It  has  been  over 
forty-four  years  since  I  became  asso- 
ciated with  the  Saints  in  these  moun- 
tains, and  I  have  been  like  the  rest 
of  you,  I  have  had  my  trials,  my  dark 
times,  and  periods  of  affliction  and 
sorrow.  I  believe  that  all  Saints  have 
their  trials,  if  they  are  trying  to  do 
right  and  serve  the  Lord.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  has  not  always  been  with 
me.  I  have  been  left  to  myself  many 
times.  But  in  these  times  of  trial, 
the  testimony  that  I  had  from  the 
Lord  of  the  truth,  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work  has  been  a  great  consola- 
tion to  me.  I  have  not  lost  it  yet. 
I  hope  I  may  never  lose  it.  I  believe 
it  is  possible  for  people  to  lose  the 
testimony  and  evidence  they  have  had 
in  regard  to  this  work,  and  to  get  into 
the  dark,  and  become  dissatisfied,  and 
complain  and  find  fault  with  the 
brethren.  I  have  always  looked  upon 
it  as  a  very  dangerous  thing  for  a 
member  of  the  Church  to  find  fault 
with  the  servants  of  God,  to  criticise 
the  actions  of  the  Priesthood,  because 
in  my  experience  here  with  the  people 
I  have  witnessed  many,  apparently 
good  men  and  good  women,  turn  away 
from  the  Church  through  indulging  in 
this  spirit  of  fault-finding  and  criti- 
cising the  actions  of  the  Priesthood. 

Now,  we  must  remember  that  there 
is  not  a  single  officer  in  the  Church 
who  has  selected  himself.  There 
is  not  one  of  the  Presidency,  nor  one 
of  the  Apostles,  that  has  sought  the 
position  he  occupies  today.  These 
men  have  not  desired  the  position,  and 
have  not  asked  for  it.  But  the  Lord, 
in  the  dispensations  of  His  providence, 
has  placed  them  in  office  in  the 
Church.  And  when  we  complain,  and 
find  fault,  and  criticise,  we  must  sure- 
ly know  that  we  are  criticising  the  ac- 


tions of  the  Lord,  because  He  is  the 
one  that  has  brought  these  things  to 
pass  and  placed  these  men  in  their 
positions,  for  the  reason,  I  suppose, 
that  they  were  the  ones  He  wanted 
to  carry  on  His  work.  The  officers  of 
this  Church  have  been  called  to  these 
positions,  and  we  ought  to  remember 
this.  We  ought  to  sustain  this  work, 
sustain  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
and  sustain  the  Priesthood.  Let  all 
other  things  be  a  secondary  considera- 
tion. The  Savior  said,  "Seek  first  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteous- 
ness." That  is  the  first  thing  for  us 
to  do;  then  other  things  will  be  added 
unto  us  as  we  may  need  them.  As  I 
said  before,  I  know  this  work  is  true; 
and  if  I  deny  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
it  will  be  because  I  get  into  the  dark 
and  lose  the  spirit  of  it.  We  are  lia- 
ble to  do  this.  Hence  it  is  not  safe 
for  a  Latter-day  Saint  to  forget  his 
prayers,  and  to  forget  the  Lord.  We 
should  make  it  the  practice  of  our 
lives  to  entreat  the  Lord  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  in  the  evening,  and  at  mid- 
day, and  have  within  our  hearts  the 
spirit  of  prayer. 

I  am  aware  that  there  are  families 
in  the  Church  that  neglect  their 
prayers.  Heads  of  households  neglect 
to  call  their  families  around  them  and 
entreat  the  Lord  for  His  protecting 
care  over  them  during  the  day  or  dur- 
ing the  night.  Is  there  anybody  un- 
der the  sound  of  my  voice  that  neg- 
lects to  do  these  things?  If  you  do, 
you  fail  that  much  in  living  up  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Gospel.  There 
are  in  some  parts  of  the  Church  peo- 
ple who  profane  the  name  of  Deity. 
Now,  they  ought  to  know  that  this 
is  wrong.  Yet  this  spirit  of  profanity 
is  too  prevalent  in  some  parts  of  the 
country.  As  officers  and  as  members 
of  the  Church, we  ought  to  rebuke  such 
conduct  in  our  brethren,  and  tell  them 
kindly  that  it  is  not  a  proper  thing  to 
do.  It  is  a  bad  example.  It  brings 
the  displeasure  of  the  Lord.  It  drives 
away  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  we  are  not 
in  a  position  to  have  the  heavens 
opened  to  us,  and  to  have  our  prayers 
reach  into  the  ears  of  the  Lord.  If 
there  are  any  Latter-day  Saints  here 
that  indulge  in  profanity,  I  want  to 
exhort  you  to  cease  from  this  time 
forth,  and  turn  unto  the  Lord  with  full 
purpose  of  heart. 


ELDER  MARRINER    W.  MERRILL 


5 


When  we  are  living  in  the  light  of 
the  Gospel,  our  feelings  will  harmonize 
with  the  Presidency  and  with  the 
Apostles  and  with  the  Elders  that  are 
trying  to  carry  on  this  work.  I  say 
our  spirits  will  harmonize  with  theirs, 
because  I  want  to  bear  record  and 
testimony  to  you  that  they  are  doing 
the  very  best  they  can  for  the  people 
and  for  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  God,  and  the  Lord  is  with  them 
and  He  will  bring  them  off  victorious. 
Hence  the  importance,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  of  trying  to  cultivate  the 
spirit  of  humility,  of  meekness,  and 
of  kindness,  and  attending  to  the  la- 
bors, that  pertain  to  us  in  the  Gospel. 
There  is  something  for  everybody  to 
do.  We  have  all  we  can  possibly  do 
if  we  live  the  .religion  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  cannot  afford  to  neglect  our  duties 
in  the  Gospel.  Life  is  too  short  for 
us  to  think  of  such  a  thing.  We  are 
liable  to  be  called  to  an  account  any 
time.  Scores  of  people  that  were  here 
at  the  last  Conference  are  not  here 
now  perhaps,  because  of  circum- 
stances and  conditions  which  they 
have  passed  through.  This  may  be 
the  case  with  some  of  us  who  are 
here.  We  may  never  come  to  an- 
other Conference;  we  may  never  hear 
the  voice  of  President  Woodruff  or 
the  servants  of  God  again.  We  do 
not  know  that  we  will,  unless  God  has 
revealed  it  to  us.  No  man  knoweth 
the  things  of  tomorrow,  unless  God 
reveals  them  to  him.  We  know  the 
things  of  yesterday,  if  we  have  not 
forgotten  them;  but  we  do  not  know 
of  the  things  of  tomorrow.  Hence 
the  importance  of  all  Latter-day 
Saints  living  according  to  the  light 
that  has  been  revealed  to  them. 

Every  man  and  woman  has  the  right 
to  have  a  testimony  of  this  work. 
We  may  have  the  evidence  for  our- 
selves. The  hands  of  the  Elders  of 
the  Church  have  been  placed  upon  our 
heads,  and  it  has  been  said  unto  us, 
"Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost,"  and  we 
have  a  right,  if  we  have  sincerely  re- 
pented of  our  sins  and  turned  unto  the 
Lord  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  to  a 
witness.  My  conviction  is  that  no 
man  need  be  without  a  testimony  of 
this  work,  whether  he  be  young  or 
old.  The  Lord  is  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons, and  we  may  know  for  ourselves, 
for  our  private  use  and  good.  Not 


that  we  may  have  revelation  or  a 
testimony  for  somebody  else,  only  for 
ourselves.  The  heavens  have  been 
opened, and  they  are  open  to  the  faith- 
ful people  of  God  today.  Our  prayers 
may  be  heard  and  answered,  if  they 
are  right  and  inspired  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  This  is  the  privilege  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  world  do  not 
have  these  things,  because  the  Lord 
has  not  revealed  the  Gospel  to  them, 
only  as  He  has  done  it  through  His 
ministering  servants.  He  has  organ- 
ized His  Church  in  the  earth,  and  the 
Gospel  is  being  preached  as  a  witness 
to  the  world. 

How  literally  the  words  of  President 
Woodruff  have  been  fulfilled  that  he 
uttered  when  the  Temple  was  dedicat- 
ed! He  said  that  the  scale  would 
turn,  and  the  people  of  the  world 
would  be  more  kind  to  us  than  for- 
merly. We  have  seen  this  verified 
wherever  our  Elders  have  gone.  They 
find  people  raised  up  to  comfort  and 
to  bless  them  and  to  listen  to  them. 
It  is  so  in  these  United  States,  more 
so,  I  presume,  than  it  ever  has  been; 
it  is  so  in  all  the  world.  The  words 
of  the  servant  of  God  have  been  veri- 
fied in  regard  to  these  things.  We 
have  many  testimonies  before  our  eyes 
daily  with  regard  to  this  work,  and 
woe  be  to  the  men  and  the  people  that 
fight  against  God  and  against  Zion! 
Woe  be  to  us  who  have  had  the  truth 
and  have  once  known  the  light,  if  we 
turn  away  from  the  work  of  God!  Our 
condition  will  be  far  worse  than  that 
of  those  who  have  never  heard  the 
Gospel. 

Hence,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
importance  of  our  listening  to  the 
counsel  of  the  servants  of  God.  We 
have  a  perfect  organization  existing 
throughout  the  Church,  so  that  no 
man  or  woman  need  be  left  in  doubt 
with  regard  to  the  counsels  of  the 
Priesthood.  We  can  listen  to  them  if 
we  are  so  disposed;  and  we  ought  to 
do  it  as  much  now  as  we  ever  have 
done.  I  can  remember  in  my  experi- 
ence here  when,  we  thought  it  not  wise 
or  safe  to  enter  into  enterprises  or  do 
things  without  counseling  with  our 
brethren.  We  thought  in  the  midst  of 
counsel  there  was  safety,  and  in  for- 
mer years  we  sought  the  counsel  of 
our  brethren  more  than  we  do  now. 
Not  that   every   man   shall  run  to  the 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Presidency  of  the  Church  or  to  the 
Apostles  to  get  advice,  because,  as  I 
said  before,  the  organization  is  com- 
plete, and  you  need  not  go  far  from 
your  own  wards  to  get  the  mind  of 
the  servants  of  God.  If  the  Bishop 
is  not  able  to  give  the  necessary  coun- 
sel, the  President  of  the  Stake  may  be. 
If  he  is  not  able  to  give  it,  he  may 
apply  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
for  it.  If  this  organization  was  con- 
sidered and  respected  by  the  Saints, 
everything  would  work  harmoniously 
and  smoothly,  and  every  man  and 
every  woman  would  get  the  proper 
counsel  for  their  guidance. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
importance  of  our  being  humble  and 
consistent  in  our  lives,  in  shunning 
evil  and  the  appearance  of  evil,  and 
to  teach  our  children  in  a  proper  man- 
ner. Do  you  not  know  that  it  is  a 
very  bad  example  for  any  family  of 
Saints  to  neglect  their  prayers  be- 
fore their  children?  The  children  will 
grow  up  and  they  will  not  know  what 
it  means  to  have  family  prayers.  The 
Lord  has  said  He  will  be  sought  after, 
and  He  said  to  ancient  Israel  that  if 
they  would  draw  near  unto  Him,  He 
would  draw  near  unto  them.  "We  need 
to  draw  near  to  the  Lord,  that  He 
may  draw  near  unto  us.  We  need  the 
guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  We  are 
not  able  to  stand  alone.  We  need 
the  counsel  and  encouragement  of 
our  brethren:  we  need  the  advice  and 
encouragement  of  each  other.  We  may 
think  we  can  stand  alone;  we  may 
think  we  can  go  on  our  own  responsi- 
bility; but  we  will  fail  in  the  end,  be- 
cause the  Lord  has  designed  that  the 
counsel  of  His  Priesthood  shall  be 
respected  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  ought  to  sustain  our 
Bishops,  and  not  speak  evil  against 
them,  or  against  the  Counselors,  or 
the  Teachers,  or  the  officers  of  the 
ward.  Let  not  our  tongues  be  found 
speaking  evil  against  our  brethren.  It 
tends  to  darkness  and  to  sin,  and  will 
lead  whoever  indulges  in  it  out  of  the 
Church,  unless  he  or  she  repents 
speedily.  It  is  a  dangerous  thing  to 
be  found  criticising  the  authorities  of 
the  Church— not  that  they  are  perfect 
men,  because  no  man  is  perfect.  It  is 
possible  that  "  may  do  wrong— that  I 


may  give  some  wrong  counsel;  but 
that  can  easily  be  corrected,  because 
here  are  the  living  oracles  of  God, 
and  they  are  worth  more  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  than  all  the  Bibles,  all 
the  Books  of  Mormon  and  all  the 
Books  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that 
are  written.  The  Bible  is  a  good  thing, 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  good  thing, 
and  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants is  a  good  thing.  They  are  the 
words  of  the  Lord.  But  I  say  that 
the  living  oracles  of  the  Church  are 
worth  more  than  all  of  them.  If  we 
could  have  but  one  of  them,  give  me 
the  living  oracles  of  the  Priesthood  for 
my  guidance.  Of  course,  it  is  proper 
and  a  good  thing  to  have  it  all, 'be- 
cause the  living  oracles  of  the  Church 
work  in  harmony  with  what  is  writ- 
ten, and  their  counsel  will  not  come  in 
conflict  wth  the  words  of  the  Lord  in 
former  ages.  But  the  conditions  of 
mankind  change.  The  counsel  that 
was  suitable  for  the  Saints  forty  years 
ago  may  not  be  so  suitable  today. 
Hence  the  imDortance  of  having  in 
our  midst  the  living  oracles  of  God 
to  guide  us  day  by  day  in  the  per- 
formance of  our  labors. 

I  feel  that  it  is  a  good  time  to  be 
Saints.  It  is  a  good  time  to  turn  un- 
to the  Lord  and  live,  and  not  turn 
away  from  the  Lord  and  die.  I  tell 
you  that  God  has  revealed  himself  in 
our  day  and  time.  He  has  raised  up 
our  Presidency  and  the  Apostles  for 
the  guidance  of  the  Church,  for  the 
establishing  of  His  work  and  the 
building  up  of  Zion  on  the  earth;  and 
we  cannot  do  without  them.  We  would 
be  scattered  to  the  four  winds  if  we 
did  not  have  the  living  oracles  of  God 
in  our  midst  for  our  guidance.  I  feel 
happy  in  this  work.  I  hope  I  will  con- 
tinue to  the  end.  I  have  not  only  had 
one  testimony  from  the  Lord  of  its 
truth,  but  many  have  been  added  from 
time  to  time.  I  have  seen  the  mar- 
velous workings  of  God  visible  in  my 
behalf,  and  I  feel  this  morning  to 
praise  the  Father  because  of  His  good- 
ness and  mercy,  and  because  of  His 
sparing  my  life  to  bear  record  of  His 
name  and  to  bear  testimony  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  and  friends  of  the 
truth  and  divinity  of  this  great  work. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


7 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

The  Written  Word  Insufficient,  Prophets  Kaised 
up  at  Different  Periods, — God  has  Revealed  Him- 
self also  in  those  Last  Times. 

Dear     brethren    and    sisters  and 
friends:    I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  direct  me  in  what  I  shall 
say  this  morning.    I  feel  to  bear  testi- 
mony, to  commence  with,  to  the  truth 
of  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
by  those  who  have  preceded  me.    I  de- 
sire to  draw  the  attention  of  this  con- 
gregation to  a  statement  of  Elder  Mer- 
rill wherein  he  said  that  the  Jiving 
oracles     are   of   greater  importance 
than   the   written   word.    I   desire  to 
dwell  somewhat  upon  this  point,  in  or- 
der to  bear  testimony  to   this  position; 
for  it  is  a  sweeping  assertion.  As 
Elder  Merrill  made  this  remark,  my 
mind  reverted  back  over  the  history 
of  the  world  and  the  dealings  of  God 
the  Eternal  Father  with  the  children 
of  men   ever  since  the  days  of  our 
father  Adam.    We  find  in  the  begin- 
ning that  the  children  of  men  multi- 
plied from  our  forefather  Adam  and 
became  very  numerous  upon  the  earth, 
and  they  had  in  their  midst  the  writ- 
ten word  of  God.    But  they  departed 
from   it.      What   was  needful  under 
these  circumstances?   Why,  it  became 
necessary  for  the  Lord  to  raise  up  a 
prophet,  and  he  inspired  His  servant 
Noah  to  call  the  people  unto  repentance 
I  mention  this  fact  to  show  you  that 
while  they  had  the  written  word  of 
God  in  their  midst,  yet  they  had  all 
departed  from  it.    They  needed  the  liv- 
ing   word.      As    the    prophet  says, 
"the  letter  killeth,  but  the  spirit  giveth 
life."    Another  ancient  prophet  says, 
"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  He  revealeth  His  secret  unto  His 
servants   the  prophets."      Under  the 
circumstances  that  I  have  alluded  to, 
it  was  necessary  for  the  Lord  to  raise 
up  a  mighty  prophet,  and  Noah  there- 
fore began  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  re- 
pentance unto  that  people.  He  preached 
for  about  120  years — with  what  suc- 
cess you  all  know  who  have  read  the 
scriptures.       Eight     souls,  including 
himself,  were  saved  in  the  ark. 

Then  when  these  eight  souls  began 
to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth 
and  they  became  a  great  and  numer- 
ous people,  while  all  the  dealings  of 
God  with  His  people  were  carefully 


recorded  and  the  word  of  God,  as  far 
as  it  was  written,  was  handed  down 
to  them,  was  that  sufficient  to  save 
and  to  guide  them?  No.  It  was 
necessary  for  the  Lord  to  raise  up 
another  prophet;  and  various  prophets 
in  turn  were  raised  up.  But  the  peo- 
ple went  so  far  away  from  the  truth 
that  they  became  idolatrous  and  of- 
fered hnman  sacrifice.  While  the 
Lord  had  given  them  commandments 
concerning  the  principle  of  atonement 
by  the  blood  of  animals,  etc.,  they  be- 
gan to  enlarge  upon  God's  law  and  in- 
stituted the  practice  of  offering  human 
sacrifices.  The  Lord  was  very  much 
displeased  with  this.  Nevertheless 
they  had  the  written  word  before  them, 
but  they  gave  no  heed  to  it.  It  became 
necessary  to  raise  up  a  mighty  prophet. 
Therefore,  the  Lord  came  down  in  the 
midst  of  these  idolaters  and  appeared 
unto  Abraham,  who  was  the  son  of 
Terah  by  his  second  wife.  The  Lord 
had  respect  to  Abraham,  for  he  was 
a  good  man,  and  He  said  unto  Abra- 
ham: 

"Get  thee  out  of  thy  country,  and 
from  thy  kindred,  and  from  thy  fa- 
ther's house,  unto  a  land  that  I  will 
show  thee: 

"And  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  na- 
tion, and  I  will  bless  thee,  and  make 
thy  name  great;  and  tfcou  shalt  be 
a  blessing: 

"And  I  will  bless  them  that  bless 
thee,  and  curse  him  that  curseth  thee: 
and  in  thee  shall  all  families  of  the 
earth  be  blessed." 

The  Lord  commanded  Abraham  to 
leave  his  father's  house,  because  his 
father,  Terah,  was  preparing  to  offer 
him  as  a  sacrifice  unto  his  god. 

Here  is  another  instance  where  you 
will  see  the  necessity  of  the  Lord  re- 
vealing himself  and  raising  up  a 
prophet,  because  all  the  children  of 
men  had  gone  into  idolatry  and  had 
gone  astray  from  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation  which  the  Lord  had  previous- 
ly revealed  unto  them.  Nevertheless 
they  had  the  written  word  in  their 
midst.  Did  the  written  word  save 
them?  No.  Would  the  written  word 
have  accomplished  the  object  of  turn- 
ing that  great  people  from  idolatry? 
No.  What  was  necessary?  It  was 
necessary  to  do  just  what  was  done 
— for  our  Father  in  heaven  to  come  and 
make  a  personal    visit  to  Abraham. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Afterwards  the  Lord  said,  in  speak- 
ing of  Abraham,  "I  know  him,  that  he 
will  command  his  children  and  his 
household  after  him,  and  they  shall 
keep  the  way  of  the  Lord,  to  do  jus- 
tice and  judgment."  Therefore,  He 
pronounced  upon  him  the  great  bless- 
ing— that  his  posterity  should  become 
as  innumerable  as  the  stars  in  heaven 
and  as  countless  as  the  sands 
upon  the  seashore.  When  the 
children  of  God  understand  true 
wealth  and  that  which  will  make 
them  as  God,  they  will  find  it 
in  presiding  over  their  posterity  in 
their  turn,  as  our  Father  is  now  pre- 
siding over  His,  and  in  the  fact  that 
they  have  wives  and  children,  their 
posterity  increasing  and  multiplying, 
and  the  principle  of  the  continuation 
of  lives  committed  unto  them  for  ever 
and  ever. 

I  desire  to  pass  along  a  little  further. 
The  children  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob  began  to  increase  and  multiply 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  became 
a  great  people.  Nevertheless  they  fell 
short  of  keeping  the  commandments 
that  the  Lord  had  given  unto  them. 
But  they  had  the  written  word  in  their 
midst.  Did  that  save  them?  No,  it 
did  not.  They  went  into  bondage  un- 
to the  Egyptians.  What  was  the  mat- 
ter? Was  it  ^hat  there  was  nothing 
written  in  regard  to  the  dealings  of 
God  with  His  people  prior  to  their  day 
that  they  were  in  this  dreadful  con- 
dition? No.  It  was  because  they  had 
transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the  or- 
dinances,and  had  turned  away  from  the 
laws  of  life  and  salvation.  Under 
these  circumstances,  what  was  neces- 
sary? It  was  necessary  to  raise  up 
a  man  who  could  communicate  with 
God  the  Eternal  Father.  Again  the 
written  word  failed  to  save  the  peo- 
ple. The  Lord  appeared  unto  Moses 
in  the  burning  bush,  and  commanded 
him  to  go  forth  and  call  to  his  assist- 
ance his  brother  Aaron,  and  say  unto 
Pharaoh,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  to 
let  His  people  go  forth  into  the  wilder- 
ness. Would  the  written  word  ever 
have  prevailed  upon  King  Pharaoh 
to  release  the  people  of  Israel?  No. 
It  was  necessary  for  the  Lord  to  show 
forth  His  mighty  power  in  bringing 
upon  that  people  the  plagues  of  the 
earth,  according  to  the  voice  of  His 
servant  Moses,  whom  He  had  inspired. 
It  was  necessary  also  for  the  Lord  to 


smite  down  the  first-born  of  all  the 
Egyptians.  Would  the  written  word 
have  accomplished  that?  Moses  went 
forth,  after  having  conversed  with 
God,  filled  with  a  portion  of  His  Spirit 
and  power.  He  did  not  go  forth  with 
the  written  word  of  something  that 
had  transpired  in  the  days  of  Noah, 
saying,  Behold, Noah  was  called  of  God 
to  preach  righteousness,  and  the  peo- 
ple did  not  repent;  therefore  they 
were  destroyed  with  a  flood.  -.o; 
King  Pharaoh  undoubtedly  was  ac- 
quainted with  the  history  of  the  world, 
but  that  had  no  more  effect  upon  him 
than  the  blowing  of  the  wind.  But 
when  the  Prophet  Moses  came  into  his 
presence,  and  the  plagues  were 
poured  out,  one  by  one,  upon  the  peo- 
ple, according  to  the  will  of  God  as 
predicted  by  His  servant  Moses,  he 
began  to  soften  in  his  heart.  Finally, 
when  the  firstborn  of  Egypt  were  des- 
troyed, the  Israelites  had  time 
enough  to  get  out  into  the  wilderness; 
but  they  had  no  sooner  got  out  than 
they  were  immediately  followed  by 
the  hosts  of  Pharaoh. 

I  mention  this  to  show  you  the  ne- 
cessity of  another  prophet  being 
raised  up.  I  tell  you  there  might  have 
lived  in  ages  past  hundreds  and  thou- 
sands of  prophets,  but  that  is  not  suf- 
ficient for  the  day  and  age  in  which 
we  live.  I  will  pass  on  rapidly,  for 
I  have  only  four  minutes  left  in  which 
to  speak;  but  I  desire  to  talk  to  the 
subject  as  well  as  to  the  "mark"  while 
I  am  on  my  feet. 

There  is  another  remarkable  cir- 
cumstance I  wish  to  refer  to.  The 
Lord  our  God  desired  that  a  mighty 
temple  should  be  built  unto  His  high 
and  holy  name,  after  the  days  of 
which  I  have  spoken.  Was  there  any- 
thing in  what  the  Lord  had  said  to 
the  Prophet  Noah,  or  to  the  Prophet 
Abraham,  or  to  the  Prophet  Isaac,  or 
to  the  Prophet  Jacob,  that  would 
teach  the  children  of  men  how  to  build 
a  temple  unto  God?  No;  there  was  no 
written  word  of  this  kind.  What  was 
necessary,  therefore?  It  was  neces- 
sary that  the  Lord  our  God  should 
reveal  His  mind  and  will  unto  His 
servant  the  Prophet,  that  he  might 
know  how  to  build  a  temple;  and  He 
raised  up  a  man  to  build  a  temple  un- 
to the  name  of  God.  This  was  King 
Solomon.    A  little  later  on  we  find  an- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


9 


other  peculiar  circumstance  which 
transpired,  verifying  the  ideas  of 
Elder  Merrill  in  his  testimony  here 
today.  We  find  that  King  Nebuchad- 
nezzar had  a  dream  concerning  some 
of  the  future  history  of  this  world, 
portraying  what  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  was  concerning  some  things 
down  even  to  the  day  and  age  in 
which  we  live.  But  the  dream  went 
from  him,  and  he  wanted  this  dream 
brought  back  to  his  mind  with  the  in- 
terpretation thereof.  Could  he  by 
reading  the  instructions  of  God  to 
Solomon  as  to  how  to  build  a  temple 
learn  how  to  bring  that  dream  back 
again  to  his  mind?  No;  it  was  neces- 
sary for  the  Lord  to  call  upon  His 
servant  Daniel,  who  went  forth,  and 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  he 
told  the  dream  and  gave  its  interpre- 
tation to  Nebuchadnezzar. 

I  tell  you  the  changing  scenes  of 
life  are  such  that  we  need  men,  living 
men,  that  are  inspired  of  God.  As 
Christ  said  to  the  devil,  when  he 
tempted  Him,  "Man  shall  not  live  by 
bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God." 
I  desire,  my  friends,  to  bear  this  testi- 
mony unto  you.  Let  me  quote  from 
the  12th  chapter  of  Paul's  first  epistle 
to  the  Corinthians,  and  pass  by  all 
the  remarkable  circumstances  where- 
in  God  the  Eternal  Father  had  to  con- 
tinually keep  raising  up  Prophets  and 
Seers,  in  order  to  straighten  the  peo- 
ple out;  for  the  history  of  this  world 
shows  that  just  as  soon  as  the  people 
have  a  little  time  to  multiply  and  to 
increase,  they  have  turned  away  from 
the  word  of  God.  When  Christ  came, 
He  instituted  a  peculiar  system 
among  the  children  of  men,  and  Paul 
speaks  of  some  things  that  He  es~ 
tablished  in  His  Church. 

"God  hath  set  some  in  the  Church, 
first  Apostles,  secondarily  Prophets, 
thirdly  Teachers,  after  that  miracles, 
then  gifts  of  healing,  helps,  govern- 
ments, diversities  of  tongues." 

In  his  epistle  to  the  Ephesians,  Paul 
also  speaks  on  this  subject.    He  says: 

"And  he  gave  some,  Apostles;  and 
some,  Prophets;  and  some,  Evange- 
lists; and  some,  Pastors  and  Teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints, for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edi- 
fying of  the  body  of  Christ: 


"That  we  henceforth  be  no  more 
children, tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried 
about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by 
the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  crafti- 
ness, whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  de- 
ceive." 

We  are  told  also  in  the  same  epistle 
that  God  has  placed  these  in  the 
church  "till  we  all  come  in  the  unity 
of  the  faith."  I  ask  you,  my  friends, 
have  we  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith 
in  the  world?  We  are  divided,  and  sub- 
divided, into  hundreds  of  sects  and 
parties.  Then  what  is  necessary? 
Why,  as  in  the  other  circumstances  to 
which  I  have  referred,  it  is  necessary 
that  the  Lord  our  God  should  raise  up 
a  mighty  prophet,  to  correct  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  this  great  error  which 
they  are  making  all  over  the  world. 
And  in  accordance  with  this  necessity, 
the  Lord  has  in  this  time,  as  in  all 
ages,  come  to  the  rescue,  and  He  has 
raised  up  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
as  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator. 
He  came  down  and  communicated 
His  mind  and  will  unto  the  Prophet 
Joseph  in  person,  as  He  did  unto 
our  father  Abraham,  and  unto 
Jacob,  and  unto  Moses;  and  He 
has  commanded,  as  President  Wood- 
ruff has  said  here  today,  that  this  Gos- 
pel of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world,  for  a  witness  to  all 
nations,  and  then  shall  the  end  come. 
Is  not  all  the  sectarian  world  today 
praying,  "Our  Father  who  art  in  hea- 
ven, thy  kingdom  come.and  thy  will  be 
done?"  Let  me  say  unto  you,  my  dear 
friends,  when  it  does  come  it  will 
come  with  apostles,  with  prophets, 
with  inspired  men,  with  men  who  are 
raised  up  as  men  were  in  olden  times. 
Peter  said,  "If  any  man  speak,  let  him 
speak  as  the  oracles  of  God."  In  those 
days  they  spake  not  as  the  Scribes  and 
Pharisees,  but  as  men  having  author- 
ity. They  spake  not  according  to  the 
will  of  man,  but  whatsoever  was  re- 
vealed unto  them  that  spake  they  unto 
the  children  of  men. 

God  bless  you,  my  dear  friends,  and 
lead  you  into  the  ways  of  all  truth. 
May  He  pour  out  His  Holy  Spirit  upon 
every  soul  that  is  in  this  Conference, 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  be 
made  to  rejoice,  and  that  those  who 
are  not  of  us  may  be  pricked  in  their 
hearts  and  come  to  a  knowledge  of 


IO 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  truth,  that  we  may  all  be  saved 
and  exalted  in  His  kingdom,  is  my 
prayer,  in  tLe  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

The  Doctrine  Preached  by  the  Saints  the  Same  as 
that  which  was  Taught  by  Christ. 

I  am  grateful  unto  God  our  Eternal 
Father  for  the  privilege  of  attending 
this  Conference.  I  think  the  Latter-day 
Saints  may  congratulate  themselves  in 
the  testimony  that  hath  been  given  un- 
to us,  that  has  relieved  us  from  all 
doubt  or  anxiety  concerning  our  spir- 
itual welfare  today  or  in  the  future.The 
doctrine  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is 
different  to  anything  else.  To  believe 
on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  to  believe 
in  His  doctrine.  If  we  believe  in  His 
doctrine,  we  believe  in  the  ordinances 
of  the  house  of  God.  "We  understand 
somewhat  concerning  our  relationship 
to  our  Father  in  heaven.  He  taught 
His  disciples  to  pray,  'Our  Father 
which  art  in  heaven,  hallowed  be  Thy 
name,  Thy  kingdom  come,  Thy  will 
be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  done  in 
heaven."  This  is  the  sentiment  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints — those  who  are 
sanctified  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  have 
accepted  the  doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ, 
who  worship  the  living  and  true  God, 
who  have  repented  of  their  sins,  who 
have  been  baptized  by  immersion,  by 
one  having  authority,  for  the  remis- 
sion of  their  sins,  who  have  been 
sanctified  in  the  precious  blood  of 
Christ,  which  follows  the  water,  and 
who  have  received  the  witness  of  the 
Spirit  in  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
that  was  given  unto  them  by  the  ordi- 
nance of  the  laying  on  of  hands.  The 
principles  that  we  advocate  are  the 
principles  advocated  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  His  day;  and  are  the 
only  way  to  be  saved  from  death,  hell 
and  the  grave. 

We  have  our  missionaries,  in  large 
numbers,  preaching  this  everlasting 
Gospel,  who  are  taking  the  glad  tid- 
ings of  great  joy  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  testifying  that  God  has 
again  spoken  from  the  heavens,  that 
He  hath  restored  to  the  earth  His 
Church,  that  He  hath  living  Apostles 
and  Prophets,  Evangelists,  Pastors 
and  Teachers,  for  the    work    of  the 


ministry,  and  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ.  We  also  testify  to  the 
truth  of  these  principles,  because  in 
our  experience  as  individuals  we 
know  that  the  signs  follow  the  be- 
liever; we  know  that  the  path  of  coun- 
sel is  the  path  of  safety;  for  whenever 
we  have  followed  it  we  have  always 
been  well  satisfied.  The  ways  of  God 
are  not  the  ways  of  man,  neither  are 
His  thoughts  their  thoughts;  but  as  the 
heavens  are  above  the  earth,  so  are 
His  thoughts  andHis  ways  above  ours. 
Men  for  ages  have  had  the  Scriptures. 
They  have  had  the  dealings  of  God 
with  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in 
the  records  that  we  have.  But  have 
they  been  enabled  to  understand  the 
philosophy  of  salvation?  Have  they 
been  enabled  to  understand  why  it 
was  necessary  that  all  men  must  re- 
pent, and  be  baptized  (immersed)  for 
the  remission  of  sins?  Have  they 
been  enabled  to  understand  why  it 
was  essential  that  they  should  be  born 
of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit,  or  they 
could  in  no  wise  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
God?  These  principles  are  made  plain 
to  us,  because  the  Lord  has  revealed 
them.  He  has  restored  His  new  and 
everlasting  convenant.  He  has  re- 
stored His  holy  Gospel.  We  are  His 
witnesses  of  this,  and  we  testify  that 
which  we  do  know,  and  we  bear  testi- 
mony to  that  which  we  have  seen  and 
that  which  we  have  felt. 

But  the  world  will  not  receive  our  tes- 
timony. We  take  the  Bible  and  show 
that  these  principles  are  in  harmony 
with  those  taught  by  the  ancient  Apos- 
tles. It  is  no  new  doctrine.  It  is 
the  old  doctrine.  It  is  the  straight 
and  narrow  path  that  leads  to  eternal 
life.  And  we  are  endeavoring  to 
train  our  children  and  the  people  to 
have  faith  in  God, to  trust  in  the  Lord, 
to  honor  Him,  to  reverence  His  name, 
to  love  Him,  and  to  keep  His  holy 
commandments.  In  our  Sabbath 
schools  we  show  the  children  what  has 
been  done  by  faith.  In  our  exhorta- 
tions to  the  people  we  refer  them  to 
what  has  been  accomplished  by  faith; 
believing  in  God,  and  that  He  is  a  re- 
warder  of  those  who  diligently  seek 
Him,  believing  in  His  ordinances,  and 
practicing  them,  that  they  may  make 
their  calling  and  election  sure.  We  are 
striving  to  do  this    ourselves,  simply 


ELDER   GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


because  we  want  a  salvation; 
we  want  to  be  associated  with 
the  Church  of  the  firstborn;  we  want 
to  see  the  kingdom  of  God  established 
upon  the  earth  in  power,  that  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  may  come  and  the 
will  of  God  be  done  upon  the  earth  as 
the  angels  do  the  same  in  the  heavens. 

I  will  say  to  our  friends  visiting  at 
this  Conference,  if  you  have  not  heard 
this  Gospel  before,  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  to  you  that  I  came  out  of 
the  world;  that  I  heard  this  Gospel  in 
the  world;  that  I  accepted  of  its  prin- 
ciples, and  the  promises  made  to  me 
by  those  who  introduced  it  to  me 
have  been  fulfilled.  I  know  that  the 
spirit  of  prophecy  exists.  I  know 
that  the  gift  of  tongues  exists.  I 
know  that  the  power  of  God  is  mani- 
fested, when  faith  is  exercised,  in  the 
laying  on  of  hands  unto  those  who  are 
sick  and  afflicted,  in  the  anointing  with 
oil  and  the  prayer  of  faith.  I  know 
that  the  signs  follow  the  believer,  as 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  promised  eigh- 
teen hundred  years  ago.  The  Lord 
has  again  revealed  His  will.  He  taught 
His  servant  Joseph  Smith  His  doctrine 
and  the  necessity  of  these  ordinances  of 
His  house,  and  has  taught  the  neces- 
sity of  adding  works  to  our  faith. 

What  would  be  the  use  of  the  Scrip- 
tures to  us  if  there  were  no  living  men 
having  authority  to  officiate  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  house  of  God.  Where 
there  is  no  authority  of  the  Priesthood 
there  cannot  be  any  ordinances,  to  be 
of  any  effect.  You  can  easily  under- 
stand that  the  things  of  God  are  not 
known  by  the  spirit  of  man,  but  by 
the  Spirit  of  God;  and  when  the  Lord 
withdraws  His  Spirit,  and  when  His 
authority  is  taken  from  the  earth, 
then  men  of  wisdom,  so-called,  change 
the  ordinances,  break  the  everlasting 
covenant,  and  instead  of  baptizing  by 
immersion,  that  men  may  be  buried 
with  Christ  by  baptism,  they  pour  or 
sprinkle  water  upon  a  child's  face  and 
call  that  baptism.  Now,  if  the  ordi- 
nance of  baptism  that  was 
given  unto  us  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  was  being  buried 
with  Christ  in  baptism,  how  would  it 
be  possible  for  us  to  be  justified  by 
having  a  little  water  sprinkled  in  our 
faces  when  we  were  little  children  and 
knew  nothing  about  it?    So  much  for 


the  wisdom  of  men.  No  man  knoweth 
the  things  of  God,  except  by  the  Spirit 
of  God.  When  they  had  living  Apos- 
tles and  Prophets,  Evangelists,  Pas- 
tors and  Teachers,  sent  of  God  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  then  the 
proper  ordinance  of  going  down  into 
the  water  and  coming  up  out  of  the 
water  was  performed. 

The  Lord  has  taught  us  these  prin- 
ciples today  in  the  revelations  that 
He  has  given.  He  has  given  us  the 
ordinance  of  baptism,  the  ordinance  of 
the  laying  on  of  hands;  and  when  we 
look  into  the  Scriptures  we  find  that 
it  was  just  the  same  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  ago.  The  Scriptures  bear 
testimony,  or  we  can  quote  from  the 
Scriptures  to  show  the  people  that  it 
is  no  new  doctrine.  We  have  a  living 
testimony,  too,  in  the  which  we  know 
that  God  lives, that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  there  is  efficacy  in  His  precious 
blood,  and  that  if  we  walk  in  the 
light  as  He  is  in  the  light  we  have  fel- 
lowship with  our  brethren,  and  the 
blood  of  Jesus  Christ  cleanseth  us 
from  all  sin.  We  have  faith  in  these 
principles,  and  we  honor  God.  We 
manifest  it  in  our  works.  We  are  not 
teaching  false  doctrine.  We  are  not 
deceiving  the  people.  We  are  teach- 
ing them  the  truth,  and  we  call  upon 
all  men  everywhere  to  repent  and  to 
come  unto  God  with  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit,  and  worship 
Him  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 

If  you  are  honest  in  your  hearts,  and 
desire  to  know  God,  whom  to  know  is 
eternal  life,  He  will  lead  you  into  His 
fold,  as  he  has  done  us;  He  will  re- 
veal to  you  the  principles  of 
life  and  salvation,  as  He  has  done  to 
us;  He  will  give  you  a  living 
testimony,  as  he  has  given  us.  We 
invite  all  men  to  come  unto  Christ. 
We  prove  our  doctrine  by  the  Scrip- 
tures. We  know  that  these  principles 
are  true.  We  know  it  in  our  experi- 
ence and  in  our  associations;  we 
know  it  by  the  signs  following  the 
believer,  and  we  are  grateful  to  God 
our  Eternal  Father,  beyond  expression, 
that  we  have  the  privilege  of  being 
called  by  His  name,  and  we  love  to  do 
His  will  and  honor  His  ordinances. 
Every  man  that  has  the  fellowship  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  loves  the  ways  of 
the  Lord.    He  cannot  help  it,  it  is  so 


I  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


glorious.  The  Gospel  has  been  of  great 
benefit  and  worth  unto  me.  It  re- 
deemed me  from  the  darkness  I  was 
in;  it  redeemed  me  from  priestcraft, 
from  superstition  and  folly,  and  has 
given  me  the  privilege  of  the  glorious 
light  that  shines  in  Zion.  But  the 
light  shineth  in  darkness,  and  the 
darkness  comprehendeth  it  not.  Why 
do  the  people  love  darkness  rather 
than  light?  Because  their  deeds  are 
evil.  That  is  the  interpretation  that 
Jesus  Christ  gave,  and  I  believe  it. 
Why  should  we  not  be  united  in  the 
worship  of  the  living  God?  Why  should 
we  not  be  laboring  for  the  building  up 
of  His  kingdom?  What  is  the  use  of 
broken  cisterns  that  hold  no  water? 
What  is  the  use  of  trusting  in  the  wis- 
dom of  men,  or  in  the  arm  of  flesh? 
Why  not  trust  in  the  living  and  true 
God?  Why  not  wait  upon  Him,  and 
place  our  faith  in  Him?  Why  not 
dedicate  ourselves  unto  His  kindly 
care  and  protection?  I  know  that  He 
lives.  I  know  that  He  hears  and  an- 
swers prayer.  I  know  that  He  blesses 
the  administrations  of  His  servants. 
How  do  I  know  it?  Why,  in  my  ex- 
perience. There  is  scarcely  a  day 
passes  but  we  have  some  witness  con- 
cerning the  mercy  of  God  and  His 
goodness.  I  have  never  been  enabled  to 
express  my  gratitude  to  my  Father  in 
heaven,  and  I  have  always  been  will- 
ing to  preach  this  Gospel,  because  it 
has  been  such  a  blessing  unto  me. 

I  remember  during  the  time  I  was 
on  a  mision  I  published  two  tracts — 
"The  Glad  Tidings  of  Great  Joy"  and 
"The  Restoration  of  the  Everlasting 
Gospel."  What  did  I  do  it  for?  Be- 
cause this  Gospel  has  been  such  a  bene- 
fit and  blessing  to  me  that  I  wanted  to 
do  all  that  I  could  to  tell  my  brethren 
and  sisters  of  the  world  everywhere 
concerning  it.  We  are  the  friends  of 
mankind.  We  have  shown  it  by 
taking  our  lives  in  our  hands 
over  and  over  again  to  teach 
them  the  truth.  We  plead  with 
them  to  be  reconciled  with  God,  and 
to  embrace  these  glorious  principles. 
I  was  trained  in  the  scriptures.  The 
people  say  that  we  do  not  believe  in 
the  Bible.  If  that  be  the  case  there 
are  no  people  on  the  earth  that  do  be- 
lieve in  the  Bible.  We  do  believe  in  it, 
and  we  believe  in  the  doctrines  of 
Christ.     It  was  a   simple   tract  that 


came  into  my  hand— The  Only  Way  to 
be  Save*,  by  Apostle  Lorenzo  Snow— 
and  then  afterwards  the  Voice  of 
Warning,  that  caused  me  to  reflect 
and  brought  me  to  associate  with  this 
people  and  to  wait  upon  the  Lord.  It 
aroused  the  spirit  of  faith  in  me. 

Now,  my  beloved  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, let  me  say  unto  you,  as  the 
Apostle  said  of  old,  have  faith  in  God; 
for  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
please  Him.  This  is  what  the  Lord 
requires  of  us.  He  will  be  enquired  af- 
ter. As  far  as  salvation  is  concerned, 
it  is  between  the  individual  and  God, 
between  the  child  and  the  Father. 
He  is  our  Father  in  heaven.  We  en- 
treat you  to  put  yourselves  in  har- 
mony with  Him;  humble  yourselves 
before  Him  and  cry  unto  Him  as  a  re- 
pentant sinner,  and  ask  Him  for  light 
and  truth.  He  will  not  deceive  you, 
and  truth.  He  will  give  it  you.  He 
will  not  deceive  you,  but  guide  you  in 
the  strait  and  narrow  path  which  leads 
to  everlasting  life. 

I  bear  my  testimony  concerning  the 
Presidency  and  the  Apostles,  with 
whom  I  have  been  associated  for  some 
time.  I  know  that  they  are  men  of 
God.  I  know  that  they  labor  for  the 
establishment  of  the  righteousness  of 
God  upon  the  earth.  I  know  that  they 
are  men  called  of  God.  I  have  had  their 
hands  on  my  head,  and  they  have 
predicted  concerning  me,  when  I  have 
been  sent  on  missions,  and  I  know 
that  they  had  the  spirit  cf  prophecy, 
because  those  predictions  were  ful- 
filled. Then  in  my  associations  with 
them  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I 
know  that  they  are  men  of  God;  and  I 
know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  living  their  religion  are  the  happi- 
est people  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  and 
the  Lord  blesses  them  and  gives  unto 
them  the  righteous  desires  of  their 
hearts.  I  am  grateful  unto  God  for 
this  privilege  that  I  have  of  bearing 
my  testimony  this  morning  in  this 
Conference,  and  I  pray  that  we  may 
be  kind  to  each  other,  that  we  may 
love  God  and  keep  His  commandments, 
that  when  we  shall  have  finished  our 
probation  upon  the  earth,  we  may  en- 
ter into  His  glorious  rest,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Lift  up  your  heads,  O  ye  gates. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


13 


2  p.  ir- 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion of  the  hymn  which  begins: 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word." 

Opening     prayer     by     Elder  John 
Nicholson. 
The  choir  sang: 

"Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn." 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Necessity  of  a  strict  observance  of  the  Sabbath. — 
Permissable  enjoyment  and  recreatien  on  week 
days. —  Effects  of  Sabbath-breaking  upon  our 
children. 

I  am  happy  in  the  opportunity  of 
listening,  as  I  did  this  forenoon,  to  the 
remarks  that  were  made  by  our  breth- 
ren who  spoke  to  us;  and  I  was  es- 
pecially pleased  that  President  Wood- 
ruff was  enabled  to  be  here  and  open 
this  Conference  by  speaking  for  a  short 
period  of  time.  I  trust  that  during  the 
time  I  may  occupy,  I  may  be  permitted 
to  enjoy  the  same  spirit  that  was  en- 
joyed by  our  brethren  in  their  conver- 
sations this  morning.  I  have  no  sub- 
ject upon  my  mind  at  this  moment,  but 
I  trust  that  the  suggestions  of  the 
Spirit  .may  point  out  the  direction  in 
which  I  should  go,  that  I  may  be  en- 
abled to  touch  upon  some  subject  or 
other  that  shall  be  of  interest  to  you. 

During  the  past  few  months,  in  visit- 
ing the  stake  conferences  and  also  in 
attending  meetings  in  various  wards,  I 
have  been  very  strongly  impressed 
with  the  necessity  for  a  much  more 
strict  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day 
than  the  Saints  have  been  giving  to  it, 
and  in  talking  to  the  people  I  have 
been  more  impressed  to  speak  upon 
that  matter  than  upon  any  other. 

No  people  in  the  world  have  been 
dealt  more  generously  with  in  the  line 
of  enjoyment — proper  enjoyment — than 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Other  religious 
peoples  take  little  of  those  lighter  en- 
joyments, and  seem  to  regard  them  as 
sinful.  But  to  us  the  Lord  has  been 
generous,  in  that  we  have  been  per- 
mitted to  enjoy  ourselves  in  witnessing 
representations  upon  the  "mimic 
stage,"  to  also  have  some  pleasure  in 
parties,  and  to  enjoy  ourselves  in  danc- 
ing.  A  great  many  religious  people  re- 


gard these  representations  upon  the 
stage,  also  dancing,  as  improper  and 
wrong;  but  I  myself  am  most  happy 
in  the  thought  that  our  Heavenly 
Father,  in  the  introducing  of  His  work 
and  in  seeking  to  establish  among  His 
children  a  correct  understanding  of  the 
obligations  and  requirements  of  life, 
has  permitted  us  the  opportunity  of 
lightening  our  minds,  changing  our 
currents  of  thought,  and  devoting  our- 
selves to  reasonable  and  proper  amuse- 
ments, that  the  mind  might  be  freed 
from  its  constant  load  or  strain  oc- 
casioned by  its  so  continuously  pursu- 
ing the  directions  of  those  weightier 
conditions  and  obligations,  and  the 
continuance  of  thought  upon  them,  by 
which  the  mind  becomes  overcharged 
and,  as  a  result,  produces  sickness  and 
feebleness,  without  there  is  some  way 
in  which  it  can  be  relieved.  To  my 
mind,  the  spirit  and  feeling  and  senti- 
ment engendered  in  legitimate  and  pro- 
per amusements  produces  a  most 
pleasing  and  satisfactory  effect  and  re- 
sult upon  the  mind  that  is  thus  per- 
mitted to  throw  off  its  weightier 
thoughts  and  enter  upon  legitimate 
and  proper  amusements,  freeing  it 
and  enabling  it  to  carry  its  weightier 
burdens  more  easily  and  more  fully 
and  mdre  thoroughly. 

But  I  notice  that  while  this  spirit  of 
amusement  is  legitimate  and  proper  in 
the  sphere  of  our  every-day  life,  the 
tendency  seems  to  be  growing  among 
many  to  disregard  the  Sabbath  day 
and  to  change  it  from  the  day  of  wor- 
ship, the  day  of  rest,  the  day  upon 
which  we  may  be  enabled  to  commune 
with  our  own  thoughts  and  to  reach 
out  after  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit 
of  God— that  tendency,  I  say,  is  a 
growing  one,  to  change  that  day  into 
a  day  of  pleasure;  and  to  my  mind,  as 
I  look  around  and  note  that  tendency, 
I  am  sanguine  that  it  is  not  for  the 
best,  but,  upon  the  contrary,  that,  un- 
less proper  means  shall  be  adopted  to 
change  this  tendency,  the  sacred  char- 
acter of  that  day  and  the  obligation 
that  rests  upon  us  as  the  children  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  to  worship  Him, 
is  going  to  result  badly;  and  it  looks 
to  me  that  an  earnest  effort  should  be 
made  by  the  Elders  of  the  Church  to 
more  deeply  impress  upon  the  minds  of 
those  of  middle  age  and  upon  the 
younger  and  growing  generations,  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sacredness  of  that  day.  There  is  no 
reason  that  can  be  assigned  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  why  it  should  be 
turned  into  a  day  of  pleasure-seeking, 
a  day  of  recreation. 

The  opportunities  given  in  which  we 
can  enjoy  ourselves  with  propriety  in 
our  social  gatherings  during  the  week 
should  be  appreciated  by  us;  and  while 
we  may  be  required  to  labor,  our  time 
being  largely  utilized  in  the  various 
employments  upon  which  we  enter  in 
order  to  obtain  our  livelihood, these  op- 
portunities for  recreation  present  them- 
selves continuously  before  us.  I  feel 
in  connection  with  this  matter  that  we 
need — and  we  need  it  very  badly  too, 
taken  as  a  whole — to  have  the  entire 
time  that  comes  as  the  Sabbath  day  to 
devote  our  minds  and  our  hearts  to 
communion  with  that  Spirit  that  comes 
from  on  high.  Laboring  and  struggl- 
ing daily  and  hourly  to  meet  the 
physical  needs  of  man,  or  to  gratify 
some  desire  in  the  line  of  amusement, 
our  minds  are  taken  away  from  that 
regard  and  respect  to  the  Sabbath  day, 
and  that  regard  and  reverence  and  re- 
spect to  the  requirements  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  in  connection  with  the 
softening  of  our  minds  and  putting 
our  spirits  in  touch  with  Him,  that 
the  tendency  to  simply  go  to  Sabbath 
school  or  to  attend  one  service  upon 
the  Sabbath  day,  either  in  the  Taber- 
nacle or  in  the  ward  meeting  houses, or 
other  buildings,  and  then  to 
hitch  up  our  teams  and  drive 
about  the  city,  or  into  the 
canyons,  or  to  be  found  following 
up  the  streams  and  fishing,  and  in- 
dulging in  these  species  of  recreation, 
to  my  mind  is  not  in  keeping  with  the 
spirit  and  nature  of  the  work  the  Lord 
has  set  us  to  do.  I  believe  that  so  far 
as  may  be  practicable,  our  animals 
should  have  the  same  opportunites  for 
rest  upon  the  Sabbath  day  that  we 
have.  It  is  true  that  there  may  be 
circumstances  arising,  in  order  to  dis- 
charge the  legitimate  and  proper  du- 
ties that  rest  upon  us,  that  we  may 
be  compelled  to  drive  our  teams,  or 
that  we  may  be  compelled,  through 
sickness  or  otherwise,  to  be  found  not 
performing  in  its  strictness  the 
duties  attendant  upon  us  as  members 
of  the  body  of  Christ;  but  with  the 
generous  opportunities  that  have  been 
given  to  us  for  amusement,  the  chance 


that  is  ours  to  change  our  cur- 
rent of  thought,  and  the  require- 
ment laid  upon  our  Father's  children, 
not  alone  in  the  ages  that  have  gone 
by,  but  in  these  days  that  they  should 
remember  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep 
it  holy,  we  can  avoid  these  evils. 

Again  in  this  dispensation,  the  Lord 
has  renewed  His  covenant  with  His 
children,  and  pointed  out  to  them  the 
course  they  should  pursue  in  regard  to 
His  work.  Yet  day  by  day  or  Sabbath 
by  Sabbath,  in  mingling  among  the 
people,  in  noting  the  conditions  that 
arise,  as  the  tendency  to  the  violation 
of  the  Sabbath  and  to  disregard  the 
sacredness  of  that  holy  day  increases, 
I  see  that  infidelity  will  increase,  be- 
cause to  indulge  upon  that  day  in  the 
same  species  of  labor  or  careless 
amusement  common  upon  other  days, 
and  to  neglect  and  disregard  the  obli- 
gations we  owe  to  that  day  rendered 
sacred  by  our  Father  in  Heaven,  upon 
which  we  should  approach  Him,  will 
increase  the  spirit  of  disregard  for 
our  Heavenly  Father  in  the  breasts  of 
those  who  indulge  in  it.  I  do  not  wish, 
in  any  sense,  to  become  cranky,  as  we 
sometimes  say  of  our  brethren  who 
strike  upon  a  hobby  and  seem  to  work 
at  it  continuously,  but,  to  my  mind, 
there  has  grown  to  be  a  reckless  disre- 
gard of  that  sacred  requirement  of 
holding  holy  and  sacred  the  Sabbath 
day,  in  the  minds  of  a  great  body  of 
people  who  profess  to  be  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  not  confined  to  the 
boys  and  girls  who  drift  away  from 
the  restraints  that  should  exist  in  the 
home,  but  it  is  manifest  among  those 
of  more  mature  years.  It  is  seen  in 
many  places  and  under  many  condi- 
tions, and  it  is  repeated  Sabbath  after 
Sabbath,  from  month's  end  to  month's 
end,  and  from  year's  end  to  year's  end, 
and  I  trust  that  the  faith  and  respect 
and  reverence  that  should  be  shown  in 
connection  with  the  sacred  observance 
of  that  day,  devoted  by  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  the  enlightenment  and  up- 
lifting of  His  children  in  the  knowledge 
of  Himself,  shall  not  be  held  so  lightly 
as  it  seems  to  be  growing  to  be  in  the 
minds  of  many  people  who  profess  to 
believe  upon  His  name,  but  that, 
wherever  it  may  be  possible,  they  will 
obey  His  wish,  and  hold  sacred  His 
day,  that  with  themselves  and  their 
households,  they  will  attend  the  ser- 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


15 


vices  of  the  Church, and, if  unable  so  to 
do,  within  the  sacred  folds  of  their 
own  home  circle  will  study  the 
scriotures  and  seek  to  impress  upon 
their  minds  a  knowledge  of  His  pur- 
poses, as  shown  in  the  sacred  things 
which  have  come  to  us. 

I  feel  that  in  connection  with  this 
matter,  a  change  should  take  place 
with  us;  and  while  we  may  not 
be  enabled  to  avoid  some  seem- 
ing violations  of  that  sacred  day, 
I  believe  that  the  spirit  of  every 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Later-day  Saints  should  be 
directed  to  a  more  careful  and 
thoughtful  and  prudent  observance 
of  the  obligations  which  attach  to  us 
in  connection  with  that  day;  that  those 
teams  and  our  vehicles,  that  those 
that  are  dependent  upon  us,  shall  be 
made  to  feel  and  sense  the  saeredness 
of  that  day  and  their  duty  to  their 
Maker;  that  their  minds  may  be 
eased  of  the  strain  of  their  week-day 
labor,  and  have  communion  with  the 
Holy  Spirit,  that  spirit  that  brings 
joy  and  gladness,  that  awakens  hope, 
that  puts  us  in  sacred  touch  with  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  renders  us 
obedient  to  His  holy  wish, — that  that 
spirit  may  be  with  them  and  direct 
and  guide  them  into  its  strict  observ- 
ance. I  believe  that  carriage  riding 
and  buggy  riding  in  this  city  and  in 
these  larger  cities  among  the  Saints, 
has  grown  to  be  a  crime,  and  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  is  not  pleased  with 
it.  That  is  my  spirit  and  feeling  in 
regard  to  that  matter.  President  Can- 
non asks,  "What  about  bicycles?" 
Well,  I  say  this,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  regard  to  this  question  of  rid- 
ing of  horses  and  bicycles,  the  driv- 
ing of  teams,  and  such  like  upon  the 
Sabbath  day:  I  recognize  that  many 
are  so  situated,  being  miles  away 
from  places  of  worship,  that  they 
must  of  necessity  drive  their  teams 
in  order  to  take  their  families  to  their 
legitimate  and  proper  places  of  wor- 
ship,— I  have  nothing  to  say  with 
reference  to  this  matter,  but  when  Our 
teams  are  hitched  up  every  Sabbath 
afternoon  and  driven  for  hours  and 
hotirs  for  pleasure,  I  think  we  trench 
upon  ground  upon  which  we  should 
not  enter.  I  think,  brethren  and 
Sisters.  remembering  the  good- 
ness Of  our  Father  to  us,  that  while 
the    rest    of  the  religious  world  feel 


that  it  is  a  crime  upon  their  part  to 
have  social  enjoyments,  our  Father 
has  permitted  us  to  have  these,  going 
upon  the  basis  that  reasonable  pleas- 
ure is  legitimate  and  right,  and  draw- 
ing our  minds  from  the  weighty  loads 
that  come  to  men  and  women  in  their 
struggle  of  life;  but  O,  let  us  hold 
sacred  that  day  that  our  Father  has 
named  as  the  day  upon  which  we,  as 
His  children,  taught  in  the  principles 
of  righteousness,  should  show  our  love 
for  Him,  and  our  love  for  the  princi- 
ples involved  in  good  government,  in 
the  balancing  and  shaping  of  the  mind 
in  its  currents  of  thought  along 
religious  channels,  and  not  be  in  a 
condition  that  our  minds  shall  be 
given  wholly  to  the  enjoyment  or  pur- 
suit of  pleasure  alone,  or  to  the 
weighty  obligations  of  life,  to  the 
business  affairs  of  life,  that  drift  us 
away  from  the  sacred  communion  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  that 
you  who  are  under  the  sound  of  my 
voice  this  day  will  bear  in  remem- 
brance that  God  has  decreed  that  the 
Sabbath  day  should  be  held  sacred 
and  holy  in  His  sight,  and  He  expects 
us,  His  sons  and  His  daughters,  to  so 
regard  it  in  our  ministrations  and 
labors,  to  only  discharge  such  duties 
as  rest  upon  us,  that  are  impossible 
for  us  to  avoid  but  which  come 
legitimately  and  cannot  be  avoided. 
My  witness  to  you  is  that  they  who 
remember  the  Sabbath  day,  who  shall 
take  the  rest  proposed  in  the  change 
of  thought,  who  shall  do  it  in  at- 
tendance upon  the  sacred  service, 
where  the  worship  of  God  is  present, 
will  live  longer  lives,  will  be  made 
more  acceptable  in  every  respect  to 
our  Heavenly  Father;  and  in  their 
children  and  their  children's  children 
will  the  impress  of  that  spirit  to  hold 
sacred  the  day  of  rest  and  worship 
be  manifest  in  their  lives,  which  will 
bring  joy  and  satisfaction  to  the 
fathers  and  mothers  because  of  the 
course  that  they  pursue. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  indeed  be  in  our  midst,  that  the 
determination  shall  be  a  fixed  and  es- 
tablished one  that  in  the  homes  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  wherever  they 
may  be  situated.shall  be  found  a  people 
who  revere  and  respect  the  sacred  day 
which  God  has  designated  as  a  day  of 


1 6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


res  j,  that  that  day  shall  not  become 
a  day  of  pleasure  but,  upon  the  con- 
trary, a  day  of  worship,  of  reverence, 
and  love  for  the  Supreme  Being,  and 
that  each  one  will  seek  to  do  his 
Father's  bidding  in  this  respect,  and 
keep  His  commandments.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

Sacred  ground. — Maintaining  Kepentance. — Ten- 
derness of  heart.—  Moslah's  teachings.  —  God 
never  fails. 

Twenty-five  minutes  will  not  be  a 
very  long  practice  at  the  mark 
straight  ahead  of  us,  but  I  will  en- 
deavor to  talk  straight,  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord  and  with  the  help  of 
your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  trust  that  something 
may  be  said  that  will  be  profitable  to 
us. 

While  listening  to  the  brethren  to- 
day, I  have  thought  of  this  sacred 
spot,  this  building,  this  sacred  ground 
where  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  wont 
to  assembl?  twice  a  year  from  all  over 
the  Church,  coming  here  to  listen  to 
the  living  oracles,  the  men  who  have 
been  chosen  by  the  Lord,  upon  whose 
shoulders  rests  the  responsibility  of 
this  Church  and  this  work  which  the 
Lord  has  established,  and  O,  what  a 
sacred  spot  this  is  destined  to  be! 
When  I  think  of  the  great  designer 
of  this  building,  President  Young,  and 
his  brethren  who  have  occupied  the 
stand,  the  pulpit  here,  and  how  freely 
the  word  of  the  Lord  has  come  to  the 
people  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty, words  of  wisdom,  words  of 
intelligence,  words  fraught  with  the 
power  of  God,  I  think  what  wonderful 
occasions  have  been  in  this  building! 
How  we  have  rejoiced  together,  and 
how  we  have  been  fed  and  stimu- 
lated to  go  forth  from  this  central 
spot  to  our  various  fields  of  labor,  to 
serve  the  Lord  anew,  to  renew  our  en- 
ergies, our  covenants  and  obligations 
to  the  Lord  and  to  more  faithfully 
keep  His  commandments,  that  we 
may  make  good  our  great  undertak- 
ing; to  repent  of  our  sins  and  to  ob- 
tain forgiveness;  to  make  a  repent- 
ance genuine  and  eternal;  for  I  am 
brought  to  believe  that  it  is  possible 
for  men  to  repent  and  then  to  unre- 
pent,  and  to  fail  to  keep  their  repent- 


ance good;  and  I  believe  that  the  vic- 
tory is  in  retaining  our  repentance 
and  making  it  good,  so  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  may  dwell  richly  with  us. 
I  believe  that  it  has  been  a  fault  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  with  us  all, 
perhaps,  without  exception,  that  we 
have  not  properly  maintained  oar  re- 
pentance a?id  kept  it  good;  that  we 
have,  after  we  have  embraced  the 
Gospel  and  have  received  baptism 
properly,  slackened  our  course;  that 
we  have  become  careless;  that  we 
have  not  maintained  the  broken  heart 
and  the  contrite  spirit, for  be  it  known, 
it  is  necessary  that  men  should  havo 
the  broken  heart,  the  tender  and  soft 
heart,  and  the  contrite  spirit,  or  they 
are  not  worthy  of  that  great  ordinance 
of  baptism  of  water  and  of  fire  and  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  And  when  we  have 
reached  this  point,  that  we  have  com- 
plied with  the  revelation  which  is  so 
clear  and  pointed,  so  definite  that  no 
one  can  mistake,  I  believe  that  that 
same  condition  must  be  maintained. 
I  believe  that  my  heart  should  be  as 
tender  today  as  it  ever  was.  I  cannot 
afford  to  be  hard-hearted,  I  cannot 
afford  to  be  stubborn,  I  cannot  afford 
to  be  haughty  and  high-minded;  but  T 
must  be  contrite  in  spirit  and  my 
heart  broken  and  tender,  for  the 
Lord  has  prescribed  that  all  those  who 
humble  themselves  before  God  and  de- 
sire to  be  baptized  should  come  forth 
with  broken  hearts  and  contrite 
spirits,  and  witness  before  the 
Church  that  they  have  truly  repented 
of  their  sins  and  are  willing  to  take 
upon  them  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
having  a  determination  to  serve  Him 
to  the  end.  He  says:  'All  who  truly 
manifest  by  their  works  that  thejT 
have  received  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ 
unto  the  remission  of  their  sins  shall 
be  received  by  baptism  into  this 
Church."  I  take  it  that  this  re  tuire- 
ment  is  necessary  to  entitle  us  to  bap- 
tism into  this  Church,  and  no  person  is 
entitled  to  baptism  who  comes  not  to 
that  condition.  And  if  it  be  necessary 
that  that  condition  is  reached,  or 
shall  be  reached,  by  those  who  would 
be  baptized  into  this  Church  and  have 
their  sins  washed  away.to  entitle  them 
to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  I  bolieve 
that  it  is  necessary  also  that  that  re- 
pentance and  that  broken  heart  and 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  L  YMAN. 


17 


that  contrite  spirit  and  those  good 
works  before  the  Church,  shou!d  be 
continued,  and  manifested  to  the  end 
of  life,  if  we  would  have  the  blessing 
of  eternal  life.  King  Benjamin,  in 
talking  to  his  people,  in  the  fourth 
chapter  of  Mosiah  (Book  of  Mormon), 
says : 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you,  as  I 
have  said  before,  that  as  ye  have  come 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  God, 
or  if  ye  have  known  of  His  goodness, 
and  have  tasted  of  His  love,  and  have 
received  a  remission  of  your  sins, which 
causeth  you  exceeding  great  ;ioy  in 
your  souls,  even  so  I  would  that  ye 
should  remember.and  always  retain  in 
remembrance,  the  greatness  of  God, 
and  your  own  nothingness,  and  His 
goodness  and  longsuffering  toward 
you,  unworthy  creatures,  and  humble 
yourselves,  even  in  the  depths  of  hu- 
mility, calling  on  the  name  of  the 
Lord  daily  and  standing  steadfastly  in 
the  faith  of  that  which  is  to  come, 
which  was  spoken  by  the  mouth  of 
the  angel;  and  behold,  I  say  unto 
you,  that  if  ye  do  this,  ye  shall  al- 
ways rejoice,  and  be  filled  with  the 
love  of  God,  and  always  retain  a  re- 
mission of  your  sins;  and  ye  shall 
grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of 
Him  that  created  you,  or  in  the 
knowledge  of  that  which  is  just  and 
true.  And  ye  will  not  have  a  mind  to 
injure  one  another,  but  to  live  peace- 
ably, and  to  render  to  every  man  ac- 
cording to  that  which  is  his  due," 

Further,  King  Benjamin  says,  in 
this  same  chapter: 

'And  now,  for  the  sake  of  these 
things  which  I  have  spoken  unto  you; 
that  is,  for  the  sake  of  retaining  a  re- 
mission of  your  sins  from  day  to  Jay, 
that  ye  may  walk  guiltless  before  God, 
I  would  that  ye  should  impart  cf  your 
substance  to  the  poor,  every  man  ac- 
cording to  that  which  he  hath,  such 
as  feeding  the  hungry,  clothing  the 
naked,  visiting  the  sick,  and  adminis- 
tering to  their  relief,  both  spiritually 
and  temporally,  according  to  their 
wants  And  see  that  all  these 
things  are  done  in  wisdom  and 
order,  for  it  is  not  requisite 
that  a  man  should  run  faster 
than  he  has  strength.  And  again:  it 
is  expedient  that  he  should  be  diligent, 
that  thereby  he  might  win  the  prize; 
therefore  all  things  must  be  done  in 
order.  And  I  would  that  ye  should  re- 
member, that  whosoever  among  you 
that  borroweth  from  his  neighbor, 
should  return  the  thing  that  he 
borroweth,  according  as  he  doth 
agree,  or  else  thou  shalt  sin,  and  per- 
haps thou  shalt  cause  thy  neigh!  or  to 
commit  sin  also.  And,  finally,  I  cannot 
tell  you  all  the  things  whereby  ye 
may  commit  sin;  fcr  there  are  divers 
ways  and  means,  even  so  many  that 


I  cannot  number  them.  But  this 
much  I  can  tell  you,  that  if  ye  do  not 
watch  yourselves,  and  your  thoughts, 
and  your  words,  and  your  deeds, 
and  observe  the  commandments 
of  God,  and  continue  in  the 
faith  of  what  ye  have  heard  con- 
cerning the  coming  of  our  Lord,  even 
unto  the  end  of  your  lives,  ye  must 
perish.  And  now,  O  man,  remember 
and  perish  not." 

What  great  favor  we  enjoy,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have 
come  to  the  plan  of  life,  that  we  have 
come  to  know  the  way  that  leads  to 
life  and  salvation,  to  know  the  Lord, 
to  become  acquainted  with  Him, 
having  learned  of  Him  through  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to 
know  that  He  is  the  Son  of  God  and 
the  Savior,  and  that  we  have  been 
taught  the  principles  of  repentance, 
and  that  we  have  been  brought  to  un- 
derstand it  and  appreciate  it!  How 
important  it  is,  then,  that  we  should 
remain  faithful,  that  we  should  per- 
severe, that  we  should  maintain  the 
conditions  upon  which  we  entered 
into  this  Church.  It  is  not  that  a  cer- 
tain condition  is  necessary  for  us  to 
come  through  the  door  and  then  that 
we  may  unbend  and  do  as  we  choose; 
but  it  is  important  that  we  should 
keep  the  faith.  It  is  important  that 
we  should  keep  our  hearts  broken  and 
tender,  and  our  spirits  contrite,  and 
meek,  and  lowly  of  heart,  that  we 
should  remember  the  Lord  day  by  day, 
and  that  we  should  honor  Him  and 
keep  His  commandments  and  work 
righteousness,  for  we  have  the  power. 
The  power  is  in  us.  The  Lord  has 
given  it  to  us,  and  the  Lord  has  given 
to  all  men  the  power  to  do  good  and 
to  honor  Him  and  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments. Naturally  all  men  are 
endowed  with  this  power  from  on 
high.  There  is  planted  in  the  hearts 
of  all  men  that  spark  of  intelligence 
and  of  righteousness  from  God,  and 
that  perception  of  the  truth  known  as 
the  conscience  of  man.  It  is  a  moni- 
tor established  in  the  heart  of  every 
man  and  every  woman,  by  the  inspi- 
ration of  the  Almighty.  And  that 
conscience  should  be  kept  unsullied. 
It  should  be  kept  free,  uncontami- 
nated,  and  it  should  improve,  for,  un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
to  which  those  are  entitled  who  hum- 


1 8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ble  themselves  before  God,  the  con- 
sciences of  men  should  become  so 
tender  and  so  susceptible  of  impres- 
sions that  they  would  rebel  against 
the  insinuation  of  evil,  however  small 
it  might  be.  For  the  conscience,  in- 
stead of  being  "seared  with  a  hot 
iron,"  should  be  improved,  should  be 
intensified  and  made  stronger  and  bet- 
ter in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  we  are  entitled  to  a  su- 
perior power  and  intelligence. 

The  Holy  Ghost,  that  brings  us  in 
communion  with  the  Father,  and  that 
establishes  us  as  the  living  oracles- 
not  alone  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  not  alone  the  Apostles,  not 
alone  the  officials  of  the  Church  gen- 
eraly,— but  I  say  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
in  the  hearts  of  the  Elders  of  Israel 
makes  them  the  living  oracles  of  God, 
and  they  are  entitled  to  speak  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  they 
are  entitled  to  know  the  truth,  and 
not  to  be  deceived.  They  are  entitled 
to  be  led  and  counseled  as  they  can- 
not be  led  by  the  written  word,  as  we 
heard  this  morning,  and  yet  no  peo- 
ple of  the  world  prize  more  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  that  are 
written  than  do  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  But  it  has  been  the  living 
oracles  of  God  that  produced  the  writ- 
ten word,  and  that  always  must  pro- 
duce the  written  word — not  the  writ- 
ten word  that  produces  the  living  ora- 
cles. But  the  living  oracles  are  those 
men  whom  God  has  chosen  and  has 
inspired  and  given  responsibility  to. 
Those  are  the  living  oracles  of  God, 
and  they  are  the  men  that  the  Lord 
sustains  and  strengthens  and  pre- 
serves, and  to  whom  He  reveals  His 
mind  and  will.  And  they  labor  among 
the  people,  they  live  among  the  people, 
and  they  go  to  the  world  and  preach 
the  Gospel,  advertising  the  prin- 
ciples of  life  and  salvation 
abroad  to  the  world,  calling 
men  to  repentance  and  to  refor- 
mation. These  are  the  living  oracles, 
and  we  should  be  the  living  oracles, 
and  we  should  keep  good  the  obliga- 
tions that  we  are  under  to  the  Lord, 
and  the  promises  we  have  made  to 
Him,  for  He  never  fails.  Our  Heaven- 
ly Father  has  never  failed.  He  cannot 
fail.  His  promises  are  all  good  to  us. 
The   failures  are  upon  our  part.  It 


tvus  no  failure — it  has  never  been  a 
failure  on  the  part  of  the  Lord,  in 
the  choice  of  brethren  to  serve  Him 
and  to  bear  His  responsibility,  to  bear 
His  Priesthood  and  authority  among 
lien.  The  failures  have  been  the  fail- 
Ares  of  men,  on  account  of  the  weak- 
nesses of  men,  of  human  nature.  But 
where  men  lean  upon  the  Lord  and 
trust  Him,  and  are  humble  and  faith- 
ful, as  all  men  can  be,  God  always  sus- 
tains and  never  deserts  them.  He 
cannot  desert  them.  It  is  not  possible 
that  a  man  can  fail  if  he  does  the  will 
of  God.  No  man  ever  did  fail  in  this 
work  and  kingdom  if  he  maintained 
his  repentance  and  reformation — if 
these  are  kept  good  from  the  beginning 
to  the  finish,  no  man  can  fail.  Where 
men  do  fail,  it  is  because  of  their  own 
faults  and  of  their  own  weaknesses, 
and  not  the  fault  of  the  Father.  And 
there  is  no  fault  or  mistake  of  the 
Father  in  the  choice  that  is  made, 
and  every  man  who  is  called  to  posi- 
tion in  this  Church  is  called  by  the 
Father,  by  revelation,  and  not  other- 
wise. The  mind  and  will  of  God  is 
known  on  every  occasion,  and  we  need 
have  no  fear  when  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  are  announced.  "When  the 
design,  the  rule  and  the  order  of  the 
Church  are  announced  by  the  Prophet 
of  God,  know  all  Israel  that  God  hath 
said  it;  and  we  know  He  hath  spoken. 
We  know  when  we  hear  his  voice.  We 
know  His  spirit,  and  we  know  the 
voice  of  the  true  shepherd.  And  this 
is  my  testimony  to  yon,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  today,  in  regard  to  this 
great  work. 

And  I  say  these  sacred  precincts 
where  the  Prophets  of  God  have 
dwelt  and  labored  among  us  all 
these  years,  and  where  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty  comes  as  a  flood,  and 
where  the  will  of  God  is  an- 
nounced to  all  Israel,  should  be  most 
dear  to  us.  What  a  blessed  privilege! 
O,  if  we  appreciated  it  as  we  ought  to 
do,  this  house  would  never  hold  the 
congregation  on  any  occasion.  We 
would  be  crowding  the  very  grounds 
about  it,  as  well  as  the  galleries,  and 
every  spot  would  be  filled,  if  we  only 
appreciated  that  God  is  here,  that  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  here  and  is  with  His 
servants.  How  great  has  been  the  op- 
portunity and  privilege  that  is  granted 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  YOUNG. 


to  us,  and  how  we  ought  to  appreciate 
it,  and  how  we  ought  to  be  humble, 
how  we  ought  to  repent  and  leave  off 
every  wickedness  and  evil  and  in- 
iquity, and  how  straight  we  should 
walk  to  the  line,  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  shunning  not  only 
evil  but  the  appearance  of  evil! 

I  quite  endorse  the  remarks  of 
Brother  Smith  in  regard  to  the  sacred- 
ness  of  the  Sabbath  day.  That  should 
always  be  observed.  We  cannot  be 
too  careful  in  regard  to  all  these 
things,  and  everything,  in  fact,  in  life; 
and  we  want  to  be  prepared,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man,  for  His  coming  is 
near;  it  approaches,  and  it  will  be  up- 
on us  before  we  know  it,  and  before  we 
are  prepared.  Let  us  then,  I  say,  re- 
pent and  make  our  repentance  good 
from  this  time  henceforth,  and  say 
nothing  that  would  mortify  us,  or  that 
would  grieve  the  Spirit  of  the  Lo»xL,  or 
make  us  ashamed. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  sustain  us. 
I  pray  for  President  Woodruff,  our 
great  leader,  the  man  whom  God  has 
honored  with  long  life.  How  his  life 
has  been  preserved!  And  we  pray  that 
he  may  continue  to  be  preserved  and 
stand  at  our  head,  and  be  filled  with 
the  power  of  God.  And  I  pray  for 
my  brethren,  the  Presidency,  the 
Twelve,  and  for  the  Elders  of  Israel, 
and  for  all  who  are  in  official  positions 
among  the  people,  at  home  and  abroad. 
I  pray  for  those  who  are  laboring,  who 
have  responsibility  upon  their  should- 
ers, all  the  brethren  and  all  the  sisters, 
that  God  will  bless  us,  and  enable  us 
to  do  His  will,  accomplish  His  pur- 
poses, and  be  worthy  of  the  trust  that 
He  has  committed  to  us,  that  when  we 
have  finished,  we  shall  be  selected  as 
His  jewels,  and  that  it  may  be  said  of 
us  'Well  done,  good  and  faithful 
servants,  enter  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord."  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG- 

God's  work  in  other  Worlds.  What  a  Christian  is — 
Sabbath  observance— Preparation  to  meet  the 
Savior. 

I  am  gratified  to  be  here  in  this  as- 
sembly today.  The  last  Conference, 
in  April,  I  was  unable  to  attend,  and 
I  believe  that  I  am  a  living  monument 
of  the  mercy  of  God,  for  on  two  occa- 
sions in  the  month  of  April — last  April 


— I  thought  my  time  had  come.  But 
the  brethren  who  administered  to  me, 
under  the  influence  and  power  of  God, 
raised  me  up  and  through  His  mercies 
I  have  this  privilege  of  meeting  with 
the  Saints  in  Conference  today. 
Thank  God  for  it. 

I  am  pleased  and  edified  in  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made.  I  rejoice 
in  the  Gospel,  for  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  to  them  that  be- 
lieve, and  I  see  a  vast  congregation  be- 
fore me,  the  majority  of  whom  have 
believed  and  have  identified  them- 
selves with  the  work  of  the  latter 
days,  which  God  has  instituted  to 
save  His  sons  and  daughters  who 
have  dwelt  upon  the  earth,  who  do 
dwell  upon  the  earth,  and  all  who  shall 
come  upon  the  earth.  This  great  work 
has  to  do  with  all  the  creations  of 
God,  and  this  movement  is  in  harmony 
with  other  labors,  that  are  going  on 
in  other  planets,  and  we  will  find  that 
instead  of  being  isolated  and  strang- 
ers to  them  as  we  are  now,  we  will 
mingle  with  people  who  are  not  of  us 
today,  people,  possibly,  of  other  plan- 
ets. And  while  we  now  consider  that 
it  is  a  great  thing  to  become  acquaint-' 
ed  with  the  nations  that  dwell  upon 
the  earth,  then  it  will  be  the  pre- 
rogative of  the  saved  to  visit  other 
creations  and  other  organizations 
—planets  that  have  come  into 
existence  and  are  peopled  by  the 
Almighty— that^  we  may  visit  them 
and  become  acquainted  with  them  as 
we  now  become  acquainted  with  for- 
eign people.This  work  extends  to  all  the 
people.  This  work  extends  to  all  the 
creations  of  God.  It  partakes  of  God, 
and  therefore  the  attributes  that  are 
planted  in  man  are  like  unto  His  at- 
tributes, and  we  shall  become  ac- 
quainted and  see  as  we  are  seen  and 
know  as  we  are  known. 

I  am  thankful  that  the  brethren 
have  touched  upon  our  weaknesses. 
We  claim  to  be  Christians.  What  is  a 
Christian?  It  is  one  who  does  the  will 
of  the  Father,  that  lives  in  obedience 
to  the  commandments  of  Christ.  If  I 
do  not  these  things,  I  am  not  a 
Christian.  Men  have  asked  me  by 
what  power  does  a  certain  individual 
heal  the  sick?  Is  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus?  "O,  no."  Question  the  indi- 
vidual who  is  operating,  and  he  may 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tell  you,  "I  know  not  by  what  power 
I  do  this."  Then  I  don't  want  any- 
thing to  do  with  that  power.  When 
one  who  is  endowed  with  the  Priest- 
hood and  the  Spirit  of  God  pro- 
nounces a  blessing  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  man  is  acting  as  a 
Christian,  in  that  respect  at  least. 
When  there  is  any  religious  denomina- 
tion that  labor,  that  worship  in  any 
other  name,  they  are  not  Christians; 
and  I  leave  it  to  you  and  to  the  world 
to  define  who  are  Christians  in  this 
generation.  I  do  not  want  to  malign 
airy  one,  but,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  take  this  as  a  key,  and  no  man  nor 
woman  need  stumble  when  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are 
taught  and  they  are  lived  up  to, — 
that  man  or  that  woman  who  so  lives 
is  a  Christian  in  the  true  sense  of  the 
word.  If  a  religious  denomination 
claim  to  have  revelation  and  institute 
a  doctrine  and  eschew  Christ  and  put 
Him  away,  they  are  simply  grafting 
on  to  this  enlightened  age  a  system  of 
heathenism,  and  it  will  not  be  long  be- 
for  they  will  erect  their  heathen  gods, 
as  has  been  done  in  other  ages  of  the 
world.  However  they  may  look  upon 
it,  it  is  true.  If  these  people  are 
Christians,  if  these  men  and  these  wo- 
men are  Christians,  then  they  will  do 
that  which  Christ  has  commanded. 

I  am  a  witness  that  He  has  com- 
manded us  to  observe  the  Sabbath  day 
and  keep  it  holy;  and  I  will  say  this, 
that  there  is  not,  in  some  respects, 
observed  in  this  city  anything  like  the 
order  that  I  found  in  Carthage  on  a 
visit  to  that  place  some  years  ago; 
that  is  the  spot  where  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  the  Patriarch  Hyrum 
were  murdered  in  cold  blood.  You 
could  not  buy  a  drop  of  liquor  in  that 
town.  You  saw  no  ragged  loafers, 
nor  fences  down,  nor  men  wandering 
about  the  streets,  but  everybody  was 
busy,  everybody  seemed  to  have  some- 
thing to  do.  I  was  astonished,  because 
I  had  always  looked  upon  that  town 
as  the  worst  in  the  United  States. 
But  it  was  ahead  of  this  city  in 
Zion,  in  the  order  that  was  main- 
tained there.  There  is  nothing  in  a 
name.  It  is  said  by  one  of  the  poets, 
"What's  in  a  name?"  I  may  bear  the 
name  of  a  Latter-day  Saint,  but  I 
will    tell    you    that    I  have  not  the 


flavor  nor  the  odor  of  a  Saint  when  I 
do  not  the  will  of  the  Father.  It  is 
said  that  "a  rose  by  any  other  name 
would  smell  as  sweet."  But  when  I 
do  not  live  the  religion  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  have  not  the  confidence  to 
present  to  the  people,  nor  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  me  to  be  witnessed  by  the  con- 
gregations of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  cannot  deceive  them,  it  is  im- 
possible. No  man  can  deceive  this 
people.  He  cannot  do  it,  because 
they  are  so  strongly  entrenched,  every 
man  and  woman  that  is  living  his  or 
her  religion.  First,  we  have  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  to  give  us 
revelation,  to  instruct  us,  and  if  God 
our  Father  has  anything  for  us  to  do 
particularly  outside  of  the  instruc- 
tions already  given,  it  comes  through 
that  channel.  It  comes  through  His 
mouthpiece,  and  it  is  passed  from  one 
grade  to  another  in  the  Priesthood. 
And  it  comes  to  us,  "Thus  saith  the 
Lord,"  if  need  be.  Then  we  have  with- 
in ourselves  that  living  light  and  in- 
telligence, that  when  the  word  of  the 
Lord  comes,  it  seems  like  waters  com- 
ing together,  pure  and  undented, 
waters  that  blend  together  and  are 
undistinguishable  when  they  meet  and 
are  mingled.  That  spirit  is  absorbed 
by  us,  and  we  feel  that  what  is  given 
unto  us  is  for  the  consolation  of  our 
souls. 

Now,  I  ought  to  receive  whatever 
God  sends  me.  It  is  a  very  hard 
job  sometimes.  If  it  doesn't  agree 
with  me,  it  is  because  I  am  cross- 
grained.  But  we  should  learn  this 
lesson,  that  God  will  hold  us  responsi- 
ble, because  the  means,  as  has  been 
said,  are  in  our  power  by  which  we 
can  walk  a  straight  line  without  de- 
viation. Although  we  have  weak- 
nesses, yet  we  can  walk  the  straight 
line  back  into  the  presence  of  our 
Father.  He  has  given  us  this  power, 
and  He  holds  us  responsible  for  its 
use,  just  as  the  ten  talents  were 
given,  and  those  who  had  them 
were  held  responsible  for  their 
use.  God  holds  you  and 
me  responsible  for  the  talents  he  gives 
us,  or  has  given  us,  and  if  these  talents 
are  allowed  to  lie  in  the  ground  un- 
productive, we  may  pray  to  Him  but 
it  will  be  in  vain,  comparatively,  for 
there  will  be  nothing  for  us  by  way 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  YOUNG. 


12 


of  reward.  But  when  they  are  im- 
proved, we  develop  until  we  become 
like  God,  for  the  attributes  which  He 
has  implanted  within  us  are  godlike 
in  every  particular.  If  we  do  these 
things,  Latter-day  Saints,  God  will  ap- 
prove of  us. 

Now,  why  not  go  to  from  this  time 
forth  and  say  in  our  hearts,  and  put 
it  into  active  life,  that  we,  as  far  as  we 
are  individually  concerned,  will  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it 
holy,  and  so  far  as  we  have  influence 
over  our  families,  that  we  will  see  that 
this  is  the  case  also  with  them.  Why 
not  do  this?  If  this  one  thing  were 
done  it  would  be  a  great  relief  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  complain  of 
hard  times.  Why?  Because,  as  it 
was  said  this  morning  by  the  first 
speaker,  so  many  of  us  are  laboring  for 
money,  not  for  Christ  and  his  Church. 
If  we  had  labored  and  considered 
"first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,"  all  things  would  be 
added.  This  is  true,  or  else  we  have 
been  misled.  I  believe  it  to  be  true, 
to  be  the  revelation  of  God.  Are  all 
things  added  to  us?  Well,  there  are 
a  great  many  things  that  I  wish  had 
never  been  added;  but  I  believe  "all 
things"  meant  all  good  things,  and  we 
have  seemed  to  have  a  great  many 
very  bad  things  added  to  us  in  this 
community  and  throughout  the  State. 
Then  that  is  positive  evidence  that  we 
have  not  obeyed  the  injunction  laid 
upon  us  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  His  righteousness,  and  all 
things  would  be  added  to  us.  I  do  not 
believe  this  day  that  there  would  be 
one  soul  wanting  labor,  wanting  em- 
ployment, not  one  soul  needing  food, 
shelter  or  clothing,  if  we  had  sought 
first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness.  All  would  have  been 
provided  for.  I  believe  that  these 
things  have  come  upon  us  through  our 
weaknesses.  That  is  my  belief.  I 
believe  I  suffer  today  through  debt, 
suffer  in  my  feelings  today  in  not  be- 
ing able  to  meet  my  obligations 
promptly,  because  I  have  not  sought 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteous- 
ness, first  and  foremost.  Now  I 
believe  that  the  Lord  will  help 
us  out  if  we  will  from  this 
time  forth  begin  to  observe  the  Sab- 


bath day,  and  if  we  will  go  to  our  sac- 
rament meetings  and  partake  of  that 
sacrament  worthily; if  we  will  attend 
to  our  prayers;  if  we  will  know  where 
our  children  are  after  dark,  and  where 
they  are  in  daylight,  our  sons  and  our 
daughters;  if  we  do  not  allow  them  to 
form  into  clubs,  and  go  riding  horse- 
back, in  carriages,  wagons  and  bug- 
gies, on  bicycles  or  on  foot,  wandering 
up  the  canyon,  wandering  into  the 
hills,  or  off  somewhere  playing  cards, 
or  doing  something  of  this  kind.  If  we 
will  watch  them,  God  wil  watch  us 
and  give  us  power;  if  we  do  not  watch 
them,  He  will  not  take  much  notice  of 
any  of  us,  I  am  afraid.  He  has  given  us 
these  things  as  duties.  It  is  our  place 
to  attend  to  them.  I  do  not  blame  the 
children  so  much  aa  I  blame  the  older 
ones,  because  the  child  may  be  led. 

We  have  influences  to  contend  with 
here  that  are  inimical  to  the  Church  of 
Christ.  A  lady  stopped  me  on  the  street 
the  other  day,  that  is  she  looked  like 
a  lady  and  I  think  she  was.  She  said, 
"O,  I  can't  stand  your  endowments." 
"Why,  what  do  you  know  about  our 
endowments?"  I  said.  "O,  the  wick- 
edness! I  see  you  have  been  indus- 
trious, but  O  how  wicked!  O,  that  en- 
dowment house,  what  a  terror  it  has 
been  to  me!  I  am  not  very  old,  but 
I  have  heard  of  it  all  my  life!"  She 
was  a  lady  from  the  East.  Well,  I 
talked  with  her  a  little  while.  She 
asked  me  if  I  was  a  Mormon.  I  told 
her,  just  as  Brother  Joseph  P.  said  on 
one  occasion  when  a  boy  and  a 
stranger  interrogated  him,  "Yes,  I  am 
a  Mormon  and  died  in  the  wool." 

Well,  now,  brethren  and  sisters, 
here  are  our  duties.  O,  I  wish  I  could 
bring  them  home  to  you  and  to  me. 
I  want  to  be  preached  to  just  as  much 
as  anybody.  I  am  one  with  you,  as 
you  can  see,  so  far  as  debt  is  con- 
cerned. O,  I  am  bound  to  go  right 
along  with  you.  I  wish  I  could  tell 
you  how  I  view  my  own  actions.  I 
haven't  language  to  do  it.  I  would 
like  to  tell  you  how  I  view  those  who 
break  the  Sabbath  day,  how  I  look 
upon  those  who  go  out  to  pleasure 
resorts  upon  the  Sabbath  day.  I  do 
not  care  how  much  people  ride  in  a 
carriage  if  they  are  doing  the  will  of 
the  Father,  if  they  are  going  to  their 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


meetings,  if  they  are  going  to  perform 
some  duty;  but  when  we  start  out  on 
Sunday  and  slash  and  race,  I  think  we 
are  breaking  the  Sabbath  day. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  has  com- 
manded us  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  in- 
spiration from  our  brethren  that  we 
have  heard  this  day,  especially  to 
the  voice  of  our  leader.  Listen  to 
him.  His  words  are  to  me  like  "apples 
of  gold  in  pictures  of  silver."  Every 
word  that  falls  from  his  mouth,  the 
simplest  word  that  he  utters,  is  to  me 
a  revelation,  although  his  words  may 
not  be  quick  and  powerful;  but  every 
word  that  he  utters  in  conversation 
is  revelation  to  me,  fori  look  upon  him 
as  the  vicegerent  of  God  upon  the 
earth.  Listen  to  him.  Listen  to  his 
counsels  and  to  the  counsels  of  his 
brethren,  and  let  this  Conference  mark 
the  epoch  of  a  reformation,  mark 
the  beginning  of  a  reformation  in  the 
midst  of  this  people.  Let  us  go  from 
this  Conference  when  it  is  ended  with  a 
determination  in  our  hearts  that  as  for 
us  we  will  serve  God  with  our  house- 
holds as  near  as  possible.  This  is  the 
resolution  that  is  wanted.  This  is 
what  is  needed  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people.  And  let  us  be  diligent  day  and 
night,diligent  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God,  for  what  was  said  here 
7.  know  to  be  true,  that  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Master  is  not 
far  away  from  us.  It  will  surprise  us 
very  much,  when  the  cry  goes  forth, 
"Lo,  the  bridegroom  cometh,  go  ye 
out  to  meet  him."  I  for  one  want  to 
live  so  that  when  that  cry  is  sounded 
it  will  be  the  most  joyous  message  that 
ever  saluted  the  ears  of  a  human  be- 
ing. That  is  the  way  I  want  to  live, 
and  I  would  like  the  people  of  the 
whole  world — not  only  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  the  people  of  the  whole 
earth,  to  live  so  that  when  that  cry 
goes  forth  we  may  go  out  to  meet  Him 
with  our  countenances  elevated  to  our 
Savior,  beaming  with  joy  and  glad- 
ness, to  meet  the  Redeemer,  the  re- 
warder  of  the  acts  that  we  have  per- 
formed. God  help  us  in  this;  God 
give  us  strength,  for  we  are  weak, 
and  enable  us  to  lift  ourselves  above 
our  surroundings,  above  the  world,  and 
to  set  an  example  worthy  of  imitation 
by  all  men;  which  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRE  ST.   WILFORD  kWOODRUFF 

The  Written  Word— Joseph  and  Brlgham  In  Klrt- 
land — Present  Inspiration. 

There  are  a  few  moments  I  would 
like  to  spend  in  talking  upon  one  par- 
ticular point  that  has  been  spoken 
about  today.  Brother  Brigham  has  re- 
ferred to  it,  and  our  brethren  this  fore- 
noon alluded  to  it.  It  is  in  regard  to 
the  written  word  of  God  and  the  living 
oracles.  Perhaps  you  may  think  that 
Brother  Woodruff  is  hardly  a  suitable 
man  to  speak  upon  this  subject,  seeing 
he  is  President  of  the  Church,  but  I 
think  you  will  find  I  am  when  I  get 
through.  I  will  refer  to  a  certain 
meeting  I  attended  in  the  town  of 
Kirtland  in  my  early  days.  At  that 
meeting  some  remarks  were  made  that 
have  been  made  here  today,  with  re- 
gard to  the  living  oracles  and  with  re- 
gard to  the  written  word  of  God.  The 
same  principle  was  presented,  al- 
though not  as  extensively  as  it  has 
been  here,  when  a  leading  man  in  the 
Church  got  up  and  talked  upon  the 
subject,  and  said:  "You  have  got  the 
word  of  God  before  you  here  in  the 
Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  and  Doctrine 
and  Covenants;  you  have  the  written 
word  of  God,  and  you  who  give  reve- 
lations should  give  revelations  accord- 
ing to  those  books,  as  what  is  written 
in  those  books  is  the  word  of  God.  "We 
should  confine  ourselves  to  them." 
When  he  concluded,  Brother  Joseph 
turned  to  Brother  Brigham  Young  and 
said,  "Brother  Brigham  I  want  you 
to  take  the  stand  and  tell  us  your 
views  with  regard  to  the  written 
oracles  and  the  written  word  of  God." 
Brother  Brigham  took  the  stand,  and 
he  took  the  Bible,  and  laid  it  down; 
he  took  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  laid 
it  down;  and  he  took  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  laid  it  down 
before  him,  and  he  said:  "There 
is  the  written  word  of  God 
to  us,  concerning  the  work 
of  God  from  the  beginning  of  the 
world,  almost,  to  our  day."  "And  now," 
said  he,  "when  compared  with  the 
living  oracles  those  books  are  nothing 
to  me;  those  books  do  not  convey  the 
word  of  God  direct  to  us  now,  as  do 
the  words  of  a  Prophet  or  a  man  bear- 
ing the  Holy  Priesthood  in  our  day  and 
generation.  I  would  rather  have  the 
living       oracles       than       all  the 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 


2$ 


writing  in  the  books."  That 
was  the  course  he  pursued.  When 
he  was  through,  Brother  Joseph 
said  to  the  congregation:  "Brother 
Brigham  has  told  you  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  and  he  has  told  you 
the  truth." 

And  now,  I  wanted  to  speak  a  word 
Apostle  or  leading  man  of  the  Church 
upon  this  subject.  Whenever  the  Lord 
requires  any  Prophet,  Seer,  Revelator, 
to  speak,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  with 
him  to  give  counsel  to  the  people  from 
time  to  time  as  he  is  moved  upon,  and 
such  as  the  people  ought  to  hear.  But 
I  want  you  to  understand  this  one 
thing;  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  power 
of  God  do  not  stop  there;  it  does  not 
stop  with  the  Presidency,  it  does  not 
stop  with  the  Twelve  Apostles,  it  does 
not  stop  with  our  leading  men  of 
Israel ; — there  is  not  a  man  on  God's 
footstool  that  is  sent  forth  into  the 
world  to  preach  the  Gospel  but  ought 
to  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon 
him  and  the  revelation  of  God  to 
him.  And  by  that  power  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains  have  been  filled  with 
the  inhabitants  of  the  world  today; 
by  that  power  this  Tabernacle  has 
been  built;  by  that  power  have  the; 
Elders,  from  the  organization  of  this 
Church  until  today,  performed  their 
work.  There  is  no  end  to  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  the  power  of  God  and  the 
revelations  of  God  to  man.  This  is  our 
position  today  before  the  world.  Every 
man  should  have  the  Holy  Priesthood 
with  him,  of  some  kind  or  other,  when 
he  goes  to  preach  the  Gospel;  he 
should  occupy  some  position  of  that 
kind.  The  Holy  Ghost  should  be  with 
that  man.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  with  that 
man,  revelation  is  with  that  man,  if  he 
lives  his  religion  and  does  his 
duty  before  God. 

I     have     before     me    the  Twelve 


Apostles  who  were  boys — who  were 
young  men  when  they  were  thrust  into 
the  vineyard — in  their  boyhood,  as  it 
were,  when  they  went  forth  to  the 
islands  of  the  sea  and  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  they  have  done  that 
work  in  their  young  days  by  the  in- 
spiration and  the  power  of  God,  and 
He  will  be  with  them  until  the  end. 
We  should  all  understand  this.  The 
Bible  is  all  right,  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  all  right,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
is  all  right,  and  they  proclaim  the 
work  of  God  and  the  word  of  God  in> 
the  earth  in  this  day  and  generation: 
until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man; 
but  the  Holy  Priesthood  is  not  con« 
fined  particularly  to  those  books,  that 
is,  it  did  not  cease  when  those  books 
were  made.  It  belongs  to  every  man 
that  goes  forth  into  the  world, and  these 
are  our  principles,  and  these  are  our 
rights,  and  these  are  our  duties,  and 
these  are  our  gifts.  The  Holy  Ghost  is 
not  confined  to  any  one  man,  but  every 
one  should  have  it.  As  the  Lord  said 
to  Orson  Hyde  and  the  brethren  with 
him,  that  were  going  to  preach  the 
Gospel;  "Go  forth  and  speak  as  you 
are  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  when  you  speak  as  you  are  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  is  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  that  is  the  mind  of 
the  Lord,  that  is  His  Spirit,  that  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
everyone  that  believes." 

Well,  I  felt  I  wanted  to  name  this 
in  this  connection.  This  subject  has 
been  brought  up  so  strongly  here  to- 
day, I  felt  I  wanted  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony of  these  things.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"We  give  thanks  to  Thee,  O  Lord  of 
the  harvest." 

Benediction  by  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


SECOND  DAY. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
kymn  which  begins, 

Redeemer  of  Israel 
Our  only  delight. 

Opening    prayer  by  Elder  Elias  S. 
Kimball. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

High   on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled, 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  D-  RICHARDS 

Books  cannot  give  Authority  nor  administer  Ord. 
nances — The  Gospel  is  a  practical  System — No 
Keligion  but  Christ's  reveals  the  Resurrection — 
The  Christian  Sabbath  and  its  Importance — The 
only  true  Gospel  and  Priesthood. 

In  arising  to  address  this  vast  con- 
gregation, I  earnestly  desire  a  contin- 
uation of  that  liberality  of  spirit  which 
was  enjoyed  yesterday  by  those 
whose  privilege  it  was  to  minister  unto 
us,  realizing  that  without  it  we  shall 
not  be  edified  in  the  truth  and  the 
knowledge  of  God.  In  arising  to  speak 
upon  and  testify  of  the  work  of  God, 
it  is  desirable  to  know  what  to  speak 
about  as  well  as  what  to  say  about  it. 
Yesterday  I  felt  peculiar  pleasure 
and  joy  of  spirit  in  listening  to  the 
testimonies  of  the  brethren,  because 
of  the  simplicity  and  force  of  many  of 
the  truths  that  were  uttered.  One  of 
them  came  forcibly  to  my  mind,  as 
well  as  to  the  rest  of  the  hearers,  con- 
cerning the  value  and  importance  of 
the  living  oracles  to  the  Church  of 
God  on  the  earth  as  being  the  princi- 
ple of  precedence  in  the  midst  of  God's 
people  over  written  instructions  that 
are  given  by  men.  Inasmuch  as  the 
Elders  speak  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  the 
word  of  the  Lord  is  that  their  instruc- 
tions should  be  scripture — "shall  be 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind 
of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation." 
When  the  declaration  was  made  con- 
cerning the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
how  deficient  they  would  be  in  ad- 
ministering   salvation,   if  they  alone 


were  enjoyed  by  the  people.  Now  we 
know  just  how  it  has  worked  with  all 
Christendom,  to  have  the  Bible  with- 
out having  authority  to  administer 
the  ordinances  mentioned  in  it. Now  we 
may  possess  either  of  these  books,  01 
all  of  them,  and  they  can  not  baptize 
a  single  man,  or  woman,  into  the 
Church.  There  is  not  power  enough  in 
all  the  books  to  do  it,  nor  is  there 
power  in  all  the  books  to  give  any  man 
authority  to  do  it.  Consequently,  then, 
it  requires  the  authority  from  the  Lord 
to  be  present  to  administer  in  all  His 
ordinances.  The  highest  authority 
that  we  have  known — the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  Himself,  stated,  that  it  was  not 
possible  without  the  birth  of  the  water 
and  of  the  spirit  to  enter  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  Said  He  to  the  learned 
Nicodemus,  "Except  a  man  be  born 
of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit  he  can- 
not enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
That  was  a  declaration  of  principle 
that  was  inexorable.  He  who  created 
this  earth  and  causes  it  to  travel 
round  the  sun  every  three  hundred  and 
sixty-five  days  and  six  hours,  estab- 
lished those  great  eternal  principles 
that  rule  the  heavens,  also  the  law  that 
except  a  man  be  born  of  the  water 
and  of  the  spirit  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God;  and  one  is  just 
as  much  a  law  of  nature  as  the  other. 
The  latter  is  the  law  of  nature  and  of 
grace  to  man.  Who  could  administer 
these  ordinances  except  they  received 
the  authority  from  God  to  do  it?  These 
books  can  neither  baptize,  nor  confirm 
us.  They  cannot  confirm  upon  us  the 
Holy  Ghost  nor  a  membership  in  the 
Church  of  Christ,  neither  can  they  ad- 
minister to  us  any  other  of  the  ordi- 
nances which  we  are  receiving,  and 
in  which  we  rejoice  so  much,  in  the 
house  of  our  God.  It  requires  nothing 
less  than  a  present  living  minister  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to 
administer  in  all  the  ordinances,  in 
counsel,  and  in  directing  all  the  affairs 
of  the  Church  of  Christ.  We  have 
learned  this,  and  understand  it,  or  else 
we  do  not  know  where  our  safety 
lies. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  sys- 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


25 


tern  of  things  which,  in  order  to  be 
known  and  understood,  must  be  lived. 
A  man  cannot  preach  with  effect  and 
power  to  another  the  forgiveness  of 
sins  through  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  or  baptism  for  the  remission 
of  his  sins,  unless  he  has  himself  been 
baptized  for  the  remission  of  his  sins 
and  has  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
himself.  No  man  can  administer  in 
the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
with  effect  and  with  power,  unless  he 
has  first  been  made  partaker  of  them 
himself;  and  that  is  how  we  cannot, 
any  of  us,  preach  the  power  of  the 
resurrection,  because  none  of  us  have 
been  raised  from  the  dead.  When, 
by  and  by,  the  time  of  the  resurrec- 
tion comes,  men  will  teach  it  to  us 
who  have  been  raised  from  the  dead, 
and  who  understand  and  have  the 
power  of  it  and  the  keys  of  it.  That 
is  why  you  cannot  be  baptized  for  your 
dead  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  until 
you  have  been  first  baptized  and  re- 
ceived ordinances  yourself.  The  Gos- 
pel has  to  be  lived  in  order  to  be 
realized  and  its  power  received.  The 
man  who  goes  forward  with  real  re- 
pentance of  heart  for  all  his  sins  and 
covenants  with  God  that  he  will  serve 
Him  the  rest  of  his  days,  according  to 
the  best  of  his  ability,  with  the  grace 
of  God  bestowed  upon  him,  and  goes 
forward  and  receives  this  ordinance, 
rejoices  in  this  Gospel;  because  this 
is  the  first  step  in  it,  and  when  a  man 
does  this  with  full  purpose  of  heart 
and  enters  upon  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God  he  receives  the 
Holy  Spirit.  The  promise  made  to 
him  is  true,  and  is  fulfilled,  and  every- 
body under  the  sound  of  my  voice 
that  has  ever  pursued  that  course 
knows  that  it  is  true.  They  know 
that  in  entering  into  the  service  and 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God 
they  receive  the  Holy  Spirit,  when  ad- 
ministered to  by  those  who  are  au- 
thorized of  God;  and  it  gives  to  one 
the  gift  of  tongues,  to  talk  in  a  lan- 
guage that  he  does  not  know  himself. 
That  same  spirit  gives  to  another  the 
gift  of  interpretation  of  what  the  first 
has  been  talking  about,  to  the  edifica- 
tion of  all  who  have  listened.  It  gives 
to  another  the  gift  of  healing,  that  if 
he  is  sick,  afflicted  and  distressed, 
and  is  living  his  religion,  he  can  call 
upon  the  Elders,  receive  their  bless- 


ing and  be  healed.  If  he  is  a  minister, 
of  the  Lord  himself,  and  labors  to  re- 
ceive it,  he  will  have  the  gift  to  admin- 
ister the  anointing  to  others,  and 
they  will  be  healed;  or  he  may  receive 
the  gift  of  prophecy,  of  faith,  of  wis- 
dom, of  visions,  of  dreams,  or  to  hear 
the  still  small  voice  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  giving  inspiration  to  his  soul.  It 
requires  a  man  to  live  in  the  continual 
state  of  humility  and  obedience  to- 
wards God,  of  repentance  for  every 
imperfection,  folly  and  vanity,  and 
an  effort  to  depart  therefrom,  and  to 
sanctify  himself  by  the  working  of  the 
Spirit  and  the  belief  of  the  truth  unto 
everlasting  life.  This  Gospel  brings 
with  it  the  gifts,  the  blessings  and 
the  grace  of  God,  so  that  the  faithful 
Saint,  as  he  goes  along  in  the  straight 
and  narrow  path,  knows  of  the  good- 
ness of  God,  that  he  is  in  fellowship 
with  the  Lord;  that  he  is  not  alone 
and  without  God  in  the  world,  but  that 
the  angels  are  about  him,  and  the  care 
of  the  Lord  is  over  him. 

Well,  now,  we  have  a  Gospel  that  is 
full  of  joy  and  consolation.  It  opens 
up  principles  of  intelligence,  and  revel- 
ation, of  the  knowledge  of  things  past 
and  present  and  to  come.  There  are 
a  great  many  other  religions  in  the 
world,  and  some  very  powerful  ones. 
For  instance,  there  is  the  Mohamme- 
dan religion,  and  those  people  have  a 
faith  of  their  own,  and  they  aire  very 
numerous,  about  175,000,000,  they  esti- 
mate, I  believe.  They  have  their 
prophet,  they  have  their  faith,  they 
have  their  ideas  of  futurity,  and  they 
are  a  sort  of  cousin  in  the  relation 
to  father  Abraham's  family.  His  son, 
Ishmael,  and  Isaac's  son,  Esau,  in 
their  seed,  constitute  a  great  portion 
of  that  class  of  people.  They  have  had 
apostles  raised  up  among  them,  from 
the  seed  of  Abraham  as  they  say, 
and  they  entertain  a  certain  amount 
of  faith.  In  fact,  the  promise  of  the 
Lord,  wherein  he  said  he  knew  Abra- 
ham, that  he  would  command  his  chil- 
dren after  him,  is  manifest  in  that 
people,  in  that  they  believe  in  one  God, 
and  they  claim  one  prophet,  Moham- 
med. Then,  again,  we  look  to  the 
eastern  world,  in  China,  for  instance, 
where  are  said  to  be  about  four  hun- 
dred millions  of  human  beings,  and 
they  believe  in  doctrines  given  them 
by  Confucius  and  by  Buddhah,  and 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


others.  But  those  four  hundred  mil- 
lions are  given  up  to  the  worship  of 
idols.  They  are  idolaters,  with  the 
rest;  and  so  we  may  go  on  over  the 
world,  and  find  scores  of  these  great 
branches  of  religion  that  have  had 
their  heads  and  chiefs,  their  faiths 
and  beliefs.  What  I  want  to  call  your 
special  attention  to  in  this  connection, 
is  this:  Has  any  one  of  them  ever  had 
a  man  of  their  number  pass  through 
death,  rise  again  from  the  grave  and 
declare  to  them  the  principles  of  hav- 
ing obtained  through  him  or  by  him,  a 
resurrection — been  lifted  up  to  im- 
mortality through  their  faith?  "We  do 
not  find  it  in  history  anywhere  in  the 
earth  that  they  have  ever  had  such  a 
testimony  or  evidence  of  a  resurrec- 
tion and  immortality  beyond  the 
grave.  All  that  they  have  given  to 
them  is  the  exercise  of  a  certain  faith 
that  lasts  them  through  this  life.  But 
the  Gospel  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
which  is  the  Gospel  of  the  former 
day  Saints, as  well,  is  different  from  any 
believed  in  by  any  other  people  as  to 
all  these  things,  and  people  who  be- 
lieve in  the  real  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Gospel  that  He  instituted,  have 
something  more  and  better  and  beyond 
what  any  other  portion  of  the  human 
family  have  to  look  to. 

The  great  Captain  of  our  salvation 
went  into  the  grave  with  marks  in  His 
hands  and  in  His  feet  and  in  His  side, 
and  He  came  forth  out  of  that  grave 
in  three  days,  and  He  did  not  go  away 
without  being  seen.  He  made  Himself 
known,  communicated  with  them,  as- 
sociated with  them,  in  fact,  and  gave 
them  a  certain  knowledge  of  the  truth 
of  the  sayings  he  uttered  Himself  to 
Moses  a  good  many  years  before,  on 
the  mountain.  He  said  to  Moses: 
"This  is  My  work  and  My  glory,  to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eter- 
nal life  of  man."  This  is  His  great 
work.  The  human  family  had,  through 
transgression,  come  under  the  law  of 
sin  and  death,  and  He  had  come  to 
restore  that  which  was  lost,  and  to 
bring  to  pass  the  resurrection,  to 
open  the  prison  doors  to  the  spirits  in 
prison,  them  that  were  bound,  and 
declared  the  acceptable  day  of  the 
Lord,  and  bestowed  gifts  to  men.  This 
is  the  kind  of  a  Captain  of  our  salva- 
tion that    we  have,  one  who  has  re- 


vealed this  knowledge.  Said  He,  "As 
the  Father  hath  power  in  Himself  to 
lay  down  His  life  and  take  it  again, 
so  hath  He  given  unto  the  Son  power 
to  lay  down  His  life  and  to  take  it 
again,"  and  He  did  so.  Now  where 
is  there  another  among  those  strange 
religions  that  do  not  believe  in  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  their  Redeemer 
that  entertain  any  such  knowledge 
and  understanding  of  eternal  life  and 
of  the  resurrection  of  the  dead?  That 
He  has  obtained  these,  we  have  abun- 
dant testimony.  Stephen  said  he  saw 
Him  sitting  at  the  right  hand  of  God, 
while  he,  Stephen,  was  being  perse- 
cuted and  stoned  to  death;  and  Paul 
said  he  had  seen  and  heard  things  not 
lawful  for  a  man  to  utter.  And  the 
Savior,  after  He  had  done  those  won- 
derful works  in  His  own  land,  came 
over  here  to  America,  and  there  was 
here  no  chance  for  deception,  because 
He  showed  them  the  wounds  in  His 
hands  and  in  His  feet.  He  was  the 
same  person  that  went  down  into  the 
grave  and  came  out  triumphant  over 
the  grave.  Now,  if  any  of  these  other 
religions  have  had  any  man  that  has 
gone  through  the  grave  and  risen 
again,  they  certainly  have  been  very 
lacking  in  kindness  not  to  come  and 
show  their  fellow  worshippers  of  that 
knowledge  and  that  power  and  that 
great  attainment.  But  the  Lord  Jesus 
has  shown  unto  the  Saints  composing 
His  Church  in  the  different  parts  of  the 
world,  the  gifts  and  blessings  of  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  which  He 
came  and  brought  to  light.  The  Apos- 
tles understood  the  same  thing. 
Paul,  in  writing  to  Timothy,  says 
that  "life  and  immortality  is  brought 
to  light  through  the  Gospel."  So  then, 
we  have  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  something  that  endures  be- 
yond the  grave,  while  the 
knowledge  that  the  rest  of 
the  human  family  possesses 
only  leads  them  to  the  grave,  and  be- 
yond that  is  to  them  dark- 
ness and  ignorance,  and  they  know 
nothing  about  the  future,  comparative- 
ly speaking. 

Jesus  came  and  taught  the  people 
upon  this  land;  He  came  here  and 
ministered  repeatedly.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  tells  us  that  He  came  oft, 
and  broke  bread  with  the  Saints  here. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


27 


and  instructed  them  and  testified  to 
them;  on  one  occasion  He  came  and 
told  them  to  gather  together  their  sick, 
afflicted  and  distressed,  and  bring 
them  before  Him  and  He  healed  them. 
He  made  a  business  of  it,  as  Joseph 
Smith  went  through  the  land  of  Nau- 
voo  or  Commerce  and  Montrose  heal- 
ing every  one  who  was  sick,  of  the 
people  of  God,  and  as  the  Savior 
wished  to  do  in  the  land  of  Palestine. 
There  He  complained  that  He  could 
not  do  many  mighty  works  because 
of  their  unbelief;  but  here 
on  the  land  of  America,  He  found 
a  greater  measure  of  faith.  He 
called  together  the  people  and  healed 
their  sick  and  distressed.  On 
another  occasion  He  blessed  their  little 
ones,  and  those  little  ones  spoke  and 
uttered  things  incomprehensible  to 
mortals,  and  angels  came  down  and 
surrounded  them,  and  ministered  unto 
them.  And  while  the  Savior  Himself 
began  with  a  degree  of  fearfulness 
concerning  their  unbelief,  before  He  got 
through  He  said:  "Now  My  joy  is 
full."  Yes,  this  great  Redeemer,  the 
author  of  life  and  immortality,  came 
over  to  this  land  and  labored  among 
the  Nephites,  and  said  here,  what  we 
have  no  account  of  His  saying  «in 
that  other  land,  at  any  time:  "Now, 
My  joy  is  full."  On  the  contrary,  on 
the  other  land,  He  sorrowed  and  He 
wept  because  of  their  unbelief  and 
their  hardness  of  heart,  and  He  couldn't 
do  many  mighty  miracles  among 
them  because  of  their  unbelief.  Thus 
we  have  a  Savior  that  has  gone 
through  the  grave,  a  Redeemer  that  has 
triumphed  victoriously  over  hell,  and 
the  grave;  and  it  is  said  the  last  enemy 
that  shall  be  destroyed  will  be  death. 

We  see,  then,  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  not  only  the  advantages 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  here,  and  the  power 
of  faith;  but  O,  the  love  that  fills  our 
hearts  when  we  hear  the  pure  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel  taught  to  us!  How 
happy  we  have  felt  as  we  sat  to- 
gether while  the  Apostles  ministered 
unto  us  the  bread  of  life.  How  joyful 
the  people  feel  when  they  are  full  of 
love  to  each  other.  The  principle  of 
charity  and  the  blessedness  of  the 
Everlasting  Gospel  belong  to  this  peo- 
ple as  it  belongs  to  no  other  people. 

I  rejoice  greatly  in  this  Gospel,  be- 


cause it  opens  up  unto  us  transcend- 
ant  joys,  blessings  and  glories  in  the 
future,  which  we  have  knowledge  of, 
which  our  Savior  taught,  and  which 
are  taught  to  us  here  in  our  times, 
and  which  He  has  condescended  to 
reveal  again  in  these  last  days. 
Think  of  what  this  Savior  has  done 
for  us  here,  and  has  gone  to  the 
Father  to  intercede  for  us,  to  forgive 
us  of  our  sins,  to  heal  us  of  our  back- 
slidings;  and  has  condescended,  after 
the  lapse  of  eighteen  hundred  years, 
to  come  with  His  Father,  the  glori- 
ous Father.  The  Creator  of  all  came 
and  introduced  that  Savior,  His  Son, 
to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  when  four- 
teen years  of  age,  and  taught  him  to 
commence  a  great  and  mighty  work, 
of  which  we  are  today  some  few  of 
the  fruits.  The  Father  said,  "This  is 
my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  And  the 
Son  taught  Joseph,  and  sent  His  angels 
to  administer  to  him,  to  teach,  to  bless, 
to  bring  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  to  build  up  the  Church  again, 
bringing  it  forth  out  of  the  wilderness 
through  great  suffering;  and  we  ought 
not  to  forget  that  the  truth  is  a  costly 
article,  and  always  has  been.  It  has 
cost  the  best  men  that  have  ever  lived 
in  the  flesh,  their  mortal  lives,  and 
may  yet  again.  It  is  a  work  that  is 
made  altogether  of  what  has  been 
considered  as  sacrifice.  Indeed,  the  old 
Prophet  said,  "Gather  together  my 
Saints,  unto  me,  they  that  have  made 
a  covenant  with  me  by  sacrifice." 
That  is  the  principle  upon  which  we 
are  brought  together.  We  sacrifice 
our  sins,  our  pleasant  enjoyments  and 
worldly  lusts,  and  turn  unto  God  and 
serve  Him. 

This  Sabbath  day  may  become  a  very 
grave  question  if  we  are  to  build  up 
the  New  Jerusalem.  It  was  one  of  the 
first  things  that  the  Lord  complained 
of  through  the  prophets  anciently, 
that  they  had  polluted  His  Sabbath, 
and  they  had  profaned  it,  and  they 
had  not  observed  it:  and  when  they 
got  so  they  could  do  these  things  with 
impunity,  they  left  off  paying  their 
tithing,  and  the  Lord  told  them  they 
had  robbed  God,  the  whole  nation  of 
them — they  had  robbed  Him  because 
they  had  withheld  the  tithing  which 
they  owed  Him.  And  when  they 
could  do  a  few  of  these  things,  they 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


went  on  in  their  transgressions  into 
fornications,  adulteries  and  murder, 
from  one  step  to  another,  to  the  most 
heinous  crimes,  until,  finally,  they 
could  crucify  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
We  must  look  out  that  we  do  not  roll 
any  manner  of  sin  as  a  sweet  morsel 
under  our  tongue,  but  strive  with  pen- 
itence day  by  day  to  put  away  from 
us  everything  that  is  contrary  to  god- 
liness, that  would  hinder  the  working 
of  the  Spirit  within  us,  that  we  may 
be  able  to  get  grace  for  grace,  and  go 
from  faith  to  faith,  until  we  can  be- 
come pure  in  heart,  for  we  are  assured 
in  the  word  of  the  Lord  that  nothing 
that  is  unholy  or  impure  can  enter 
into  His  presence.  What  a  saying! 
No  wonder  the  brethren  said  to  Him, 
"Lord,  are  there  any  that  shall  be 
saved?"  when  we  look  at  the  touch- 
stone, look  at  the  criterion,  look  at  the 
rule  by  which  these  things  have  to 
be  brought  about.  And  we  should  la- 
bor continually,  striving  to  subdue 
ourselves  and  to  put  away  the  vices, 
the  sins  and  the  besetments  that  do 
so  daily  and  so  easily  beset  us,  until 
we  bring  this  living  body  of  clay  into 
the  subjection  of  the  Spirit,  that  our 
souls  may  live. 

The  Sabbath  is  the  day  that  the 
Lord  has  appointed  for  a  time  of 
rest.  He  says  that  H^  fin- 
ished His  work,  and  that  He  rested 
on  the  Sabbath  day,  the  seventh  day. 
When  the  Lord  came,  in  His  day,  He 
instituted  the  first  day  of  the  week, 
and  ever  since  then  it  has  been  "His 
day,"  and  He  says,  that  we  may  keep 
ourselves  unspotted  from  the  world, 
we  are  required  to  meet  together  on 
His  day  and  offer  our  sacraments,  and 
make  our  acknowledgements,  and  our 
confessions,  paying  our  devotions  to 
the  Most  Hiarh.  It  is  a  common  thing 
for  the  people  to  violate  that  sacred 
law  concerning  the  Sabbath  day. 
Many  of  the  people,  if  they  go  on  a 
journey,  take  pains  in  their  calcula- 
tion to  make  the  Sabbath  count 
one  day  in  the  trip;  and  many  things 
are  put  off  for  Sunday  especially.  I 
would  like  to  have  it  taken  up  with  the 
people,  and  have  the  women  make  cal- 
culations on  Saturday,  and  have  the 
food  cooked  on  that  day,  for  the  Sun- 
day, and  then  go  to  meeting,  in- 
stead of  roasting  over  the  stove  cook- 


ing, and  see  to  having  a  little  more 
leisure  and  good  instruction,  and  feed 
the  soul,  instead  of  being  so  much  at 
work  and  having  so  much  to  do  on 
that  day.  The  Lord  said  to  Israel: 
"Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do  all 
thy  work,  for  on  the  seventh  day,  the 
Lord  thy  God  rested  from  His  labors; 
and  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work.neither 
thy  son  nor  thy  daughter,nor  thy  man- 
servant, nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy 
cattle,  nor  the  stranger  that  is  within 
thy  gates."  Now  it  was  a  strict  rule 
and  law  and  commandment  to  Israel 
anciently,  and  you  will  find  if  you  will 
look  into  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  it 
was  so  there,  and  is  going  to  become 
just  as  binding  upon  God's  people  in  all 
time  as  it  ever  was  with  them,  and  we 
ought  to  be  looking  to  it  and  practic- 
ing on  it,  so  that  we  can  do  right,  so 
as  to  be  able  to  do  the  right  thing 
when  we  get  to  it. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  Gospel  is  the  Gospel 
of  all  others  on  the  earth,  the  only  one 
that  is  worthy  the  attention  of  mortals, 
as  fast  as  it  can  be  brought  to  their 
consideration.  And  as  we  haVe  been 
blessed  to  learn  these  principles  and 
to  know  them,  and  to  know  of  the 
things  of  the  future,  and  to  know  of 
some  things  of  the  past,  we  have  reas- 
on to  rejoice  above  all  other  people, 
and  we  have  reason  to  deny  ourselves 
of  all  unrighteousness  just  as  fast  as 
we  can,  and  to  learn  the  way  of  life 
and  to  hearken  to  the  counsels  of  those 
that  are  called  of  God  and  to  walk  in 
His  ways,  and  to  receive  continually 
the  word  of  the  Lord  and  His  direction 
in  all  our  affairs.  I  rejoice  greatly  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  pray  that 
His  blessings  may  abound  unto  the 
people,  that  He  may  incline  our  hearts 
to  keep  His  laws,  to  walk  in  His  ways, 
for  the  law  of  the  Lord  is  perfect,  con- 
verting the  soul.  The  testimonies  of 
the  Lord  are  sure,  and  they  even 
make  wise  the  simple. 

Now  a  word  about  the  Priesthood 
and  its  restoration:  Think  of  it! 
This  same  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ,  ordained  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery  Apostles  by  Peter, 
James  and  John,  His  servants.  Joseph 
and  Oliver  having  received  this 
apostleship,  confirmed  it  upon  twelve 
brethren    of    the  Church,  and  those 


ELDER  LORENZO  SNOW. 


29 


brethren  have  conferred  it  upon  us 
who  are  in  the  stand  today;  thus  some 
of  us  received  this  holy  apostleship  but 
the  fourth  in  succession  from  Jesus 
Christ.  And  the  fact  is  that  the 
Priesthood  has  come  down  to  us  as  the 
Lord  promised  when  He  said  He  would 
be  with  His  Apostles  always  "even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world."  And  He 
says  to  us  concerning  Peter,  James 
and  John:  "Whom  I  have  sent  unto 
you,  by  whom  I  have  ordained  you 
and  confirmed  you  to  be  Apostles,  and 
especial  witnesses  of  my  name,  and 
bear  the  keys  of  your  ministry,  and  of 
the  same  things  which  I  reveal  unto 
them;  unto  whom  I  have  committed 
the  keys  of  My  kingdom,  and  a  dis- 
pensation of  the  Gospel  for  the  last 
days  and  for  the  last  times;  and  for 
the  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of  times 
in  the  which  I  will  gather  together  in 
one  all  things  both  which  are  in  heaven 
and  which  are  on  earth."  These  are 
the  men  that  have  received  this  Priest- 
hood— these  that  sit  around  me  this 
morning.  It  was  received  from  those 
resurrected  men  that  have  come  to  la- 
bor with  us.  This  is  the  Priesthood 
by  which  we  officiate,  and  it  is  not 
something  that  has  come  down  through 
the  ages  and  been  lost.  This  is  the 
Priesthood  that  was  taken  away  into 
the  wilderness  anciently,  and  has  been 
restored  in  these  latter-days  in  its 
purity,  in  its  simplicity  and  its  power, 
And  those  who  give  themselves  to  it 
fully  and  faithfully  in  all  humility,  re- 
ceiving the  instructions  and  counsels 
of  those  holding  that  Priesthood, should 
be  worthy  of  all  acceptation,  and  we 
ought  to  realize  it  and  avail  ourselves 
of  the  benefit  of  it,  and  be  found  in 
no  case  speaking  against  each  other 
or  the  Lord's  anointed. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  His  Spirit,  in- 
tensify it  in  us,  in  our  hearts,  and  train 
us  in  the  principles  of  righteousness 
and  truth,  and  help  and  inspire  us  in 
every  good  word  and  work,  and  then 
He  will  do  better  for  us  than  we  know 
how  to  ask  or  even  to  think.  Amen. 

ELDER  LORENZO  SNOW. 
Personal    appearance    of   the  Savior— Promises 

made  to  the  Elders— Have  ihey  been  Fulfilled — 

Union    of   the  Priesthood — Proper  respect  in 

Families. 

Brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  I 
hope  during  the  short  time  that  I  ad- 
dress you  this  morning  I  may  have  the 


benefit  of  your  prayers,  and  the  ex- 
ercise of  your  faith. 

At  these  general  Conferences  it  is 
the  privilege  of  everyone  who  attends 
to  receive  instruction,  suited  to  his  in- 
dividual needs  and  benefits,  of  great 
worth,  and  if  we  pay  proper  attention 
to  what  is  said  and  exercise  the  proper 
faith,  there  will  be  no  disappo'utment. 

Now,  I  wish  to  read  a  few  verses 
from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section  110,  which  describes  one  of  the 
most  important  events  of  our  day. 

"The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds, 
and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding 
were  opened.  We  saw  the  Lord  stand- 
ing upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit, 
before  us,  and  under  His  feet  was  a 
paved  work  of  pure  gold,  in  color  like 
amber.  His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of 
fire,  and  the  hair  of  his  head  was 
white  like  the  pure  snow.  His  counte- 
nance shone  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  and  His  voice  was  as  the 
sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters, 
even  the  voice  of  Jehovah,  saying:  I 
am  the  first  and  the  last, 
1  am  He  who  liveth.  I  am 
He  who  was  slain,  I  am  your  ad- 
vocate with  the  Father.  Behold  your 
sins  are  forgiven  you,  you  are  clean 
before  me,  therefore  lift  up  your  heads 
and  rejoice.  Let  the  hearts  of  your 
brethren  rejoice,  and  let  the  hearts  of 
all  my  people  rejoice,  who  have,  with 
their  might,  built  this  house  to  my 
name.  For  behold,  I  have  accepted 
this  house,  and  my  name  shall  be  here, 
and  I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  peo- 
ple in  mercy  in  this  house,  yea,  I  will 
appear  unto  my  servants,  and  speak 
unto  them  with  mine  own  voice,  if 
my  people  will  keep  my  command- 
ments, and  do  not  pollute  this  holy 
house.  Tea,  the  hearts  of  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  shall  greatly 
rejoice  in  consequence  of  the  bless- 
ings which  shall  be  poured  out,  and 
the  endowment  with  which  my  ser- 
vants have  been  endowed  in  this 
house;  and  the  fame  of  this  house 
shall  spread  to  foreign  lands,  and  this 
is  the  beginning  of  the  blessing  which 
shall  be  poured  upon  the  heads  of  my 
people.     Even  so.  Amen." 

We  have  heard,  brethren  and  sisters, 
very  excellent  principles,  explained  to 
us  yesterday,  and  this  morning  by 
Apostle  Richards,  and  our  hearts  have 
been  made  to  rejoice  in  the  contem- 
plation of  the  positions  that  we  oc- 
cupy, of  the  prospects  that  are  before 
us,  and  of  the  glorious  records  that 
many,  and  I  hope  all,  have  made  in 
the  past.  It  is  strange,  that  there  are 
so  few  that  have  come  to  an  under- 
standing that  God  has  revealed  Him- 


3Q 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


self  unto  His  people,  that  His  voice 
has  been  heard,  as  I  have  just  read  to 
you.and  for  what  He  has  accomplished 
through  the  Holy  Priesthood  that  He 
has  caused  to  be  conferred  upon  many 
of  His  servants.  Thirteen  hundred  or 
thereabouts  of  the  servants  of  God  are 
now  traveling  through  the  world  as 
oracles  of  God  and  testifying  of  these 
most  extraordinary  facts,  and  are 
promising  in  the  name  of  the  Al- 
mighty, by  virtue  of  the  divine  au- 
thority they  possess,  that  those  who 
will  obey  the  Gospel  which  they  are 
authorized  to  administer,  shall  re- 
ceive a  knowledge  of  these  important 
truths.  It  is  a  marvelous  fact  that 
there  are  thirteen  hundred  men  who 
are  now  promising  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  and  explaining  how  every  per- 
son may  know,  and  know  effectually, 
know  by  revelation, that  their  promises 
are  of  the  Almighty,  that  they  have 
authority  to  thus  prophesy,  prophesy 
of  that  which  is  most  important;  in 
fact,  there  could  be  nothing  of 
greater  importance  to  mortal  man 
than  that  which  pertains  to  their 
prophecy,  and  all  men  have  a 
right  or  the  privilege  of  ascertaining, 
in  a  very  simple  way,  whether  that 
prediction  is  from  God. 

This  is  indeed  strange  and  wonder- 
ful. Jt  is  strange  and  wonderful  to 
the  world  because  such  things  have 
never  been  heard  of  or  known  for  cen- 
turies. What  is  their  prediction  that 
is  of  such  high  importance  to  all  peo- 
ple? Why,  this:  Having  stated  be- 
fore the  cangregations  of  the  world 
that  they  are  authorized  to  preach 
the  Gospel  of  life  and  salvation,  that 
they  are  authorized  to  promise  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  shall  lead 
into  all  truth  and  show  things  to  come, 
and  shall  testify  in  reference  to  their 
authority,  then  to  make  this  predic- 
tion that  such  as  will  obey  the  simple 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  shall  receive 
a  perfect  knowledge,  a  knowl- 
edge not  by  the  reading  of 
books,  the  Scriptures  or  any 
past  revelations  that  may  have  been 
given,  but  they  shall  receive  a  knowl- 
edge of  this  from  God  Himself.  Well 
now,  all  that  is  required  of  these  in- 
dividuals to  know  that  which  pertains 
to  their  salvation,  exaltation  and  glory 
i--  simply  to  do  that  which    has  been 


made  plain,  very  plain  indeed  by 
Jesus  Christ  and  by.  the  Apostles,  as 
contained  in  the  Scriptures  of  truth; 
to  perform  a  few  acts  in  relation  to 
the  principles  of  life  or  a  few  acts  that 
will  put.  them  in  possession,  after 
1. roper  preparation,  of  this  important 
knowledge. 

Jesus  Christ  went  down  into  tht; 
waters  of  baptism  and  was  immersed 
there  by  John  the  Baptist,  who  had 
authority  thus  to  do;  and  many  others, 
in  the  days  of  the  Apostles,  performed 
those  ordinances  that  pertain  to  the 
everlasting  Gospel.  They  were  bap- 
tized for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
by  one  that  possessed  the  authority 
which,  those  Elders  that  I  mentio;i 
now,  possess.  They  possessed  the  au- 
thority to  administer  those  ordinances 
■ — immersion  ir.  water  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  the  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
These  simple  acts  were  actually  per- 
formed by  the  Apostles  in  former 
days,  and  by  the  Seventies  that  were 
sent  forth,  and  by  all  who  were  sent 
to  preach  the  fullness  of  the  Gospel. 
All  that  these  Elders  require  in  order 
that  their  predictions  may  be  fulfilled 
is  that  people  now  shall  do  likewise. 

Jesuf,  said  on  a  certain  occasion, 
that  He  would  build  His  Church 
upon  revelation:  that  is,  Peter  having 
received  a  revelation  that  Jesus  was 
the  Son  of  God  and  so  saying  Jesus 
replied,  "Upon  this  rock  will  I  build 
my  Church  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall 
not  prevail  against  it."  The  system  of 
salvation  and  exaltation  and  glory 
was  of  such  a  character  that  there 
was  this  grand  feature  about  it,  all 
persons  might  receive  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge of  its  divine  source. 

When  we  take  into  consideration 
the  difficulties  those  have  to  meet 
who  obey  these  principles  we  see  the 
necessity  that  they  should  have  a 
perfect  knowledge  of  that  which  they 
have  received,  and  thus  the  Lord  be- 
stows upon  them  the  means  by  which 
they  can  contend  against  the  difficul- 
ties and  the  persecutions  and  secure 
the  blessings  connected  with  these 
promises.  When  people  follow  the 
counsels  of  these  servants  of  the  Lord 
who  are  abroad  preaching  the  Gospel, 
if  they  do  not  come  to  a  knowledge  of 


ELDER  LORENZO  SNOW. 


3i 


the  truth  of  these  promises  from 
heaven  after  they  have  obeyed,  they 
ought  to  declare  this:  they  should 
announce  this  failure  to  their  friends, 
and  to  the  public.  I  suppose,  I  am  now 
addressing  six  or  eight  thousand  peo- 
ple, and  probably  three-fifths  of  them 
have  come  'from  the  distant  nations  of 
the  earth,  to  these  mountain  vales, 
and  these  are  the  principles  that  we 
taught  them,  that  they  should  receive 
a  knowledge  of  this  work,  they  should 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost  that  would 
testify  to  them  of  the  truth  of  the 
saying  of  these  Elders  that  they  had 
authority  to  administer  the  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel.  Now,  I  ask,  why  are 
you  here?  Why  are  you  sitting  upon 
these  seats?  Why  are  you  teaching 
your  families  and  friends  that  these 
principles  are  of  God,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  that 
Jesus  came  down  and  talked  with  His 
people,  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
as  He  did  in  former  days?  Why  do 
you  teach  these  principles,  and  why  do 
you  sit  here  instead  of  repairing  to 
your  homes  and  declaring  that  you 
never  received  any  such  divine  testi- 
mony, as  was  promised  you? 

I  think  if  strangers  came  to  me,  as 
Elders  now  go  to  the  nations,  and 
testified  to  me  that  they  had  authori- 
ty to  promise  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
would  rest  upon  me  after  repenting 
of  my  sins,  forsaking  them,  and  obey- 
ing their  message,  and  I  did  not  re- 
ceive any  extraordinary  or  miraculous 
manifestations,  I  certainly  would  not 
leave  my  friends,  country,  and  home, 
as  thousands  and  thousands  have 
done.  But  it  is  a  fact  that  I  am 
speaking  to  thousands  here  that  have 
come  from  long  distances,  from  many 
nations  of  the  earth,  that  are  here 
and  have  been  here  for  years  and 
years;  why  is  it  they  do  not  rise  up 
and  deny  that  they  or  their  friends 
ever  received  this  testimony?  In 
these  verses  that  I  have  read  in  your 
hearing,  it  is  declared  that  the  Son  of 
God  appeared  in  the  Kirtland  Temple 
sixty-  one  years  ago,  and  spoke  there 
to  His  friends. 

Years  ago  on  my  Palestine  tour,  I 
was  one  day  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
where  Jesus  left  the  earth  and  as- 
cended to  His  Father,  witness3d  by 


persons  that  were  there  present,  and  I 
did  not  doubt  that  I  was  at  the  place 
where,  as  T  read  in  the  Testament, 
that  Jesus  took  His  departure  from. 
While  I  looked  around  and  gazed 
about,  I  believed  that  I  was  there  at 
that  place;  I  believed  that  Jesus  did 
actually  take  farewell  of  the  world 
and  go  to  His  Father,  because  cer- 
tain individuals  say  and  did  make  a 
declaration  that  that  was  the  fact. 
Now  I  did  not  see  these  persons  that 
testified  to  this  extraordinary  occur- 
rence. I  saw  no  such  persons;  because 
it  was  over  eighteen  hundred  years  ago 
that  this  extraordinary  circumstance 
occurred.  But  this  that  I  have  been 
reading  in  your  hearing,  occurred  in 
this  age.  I  was  personally  acquainted 
with  the  parties  who  saw  this  wonder- 
ful manifestation — intimately  ac- 
quainted with  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery.  I  was  acquainted  with  Joseph 
Smith  for  years.  And  I  know  Brother 
Oliver  Cowdery  to  have  been  a  good 
man,  honorable,  honest,  and  truthful; 
although  years  after  this,  Oliver  Cow- 
dery left  the  Church  for  a  while.  He 
became  proud  and  exalted,  and  left 
the  Church;  but  the  spirit  and  the  tes- 
timony never  left  him,  and  after  suf- 
fering the  afflictions  of  the  Lord,  he 
repented  and  was  very  glad  to  come 
back  into  the  Church,  and  he  got  back 
just  in  time  to  go  into  the  other  world, 
and  that  is  just  about  the  whole  of 
it  so  far  as  Oliver  Cowdery  was  con- 
cerned. 

Well  now, these  things  are  worthy  the 
attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
when  we  take  them  into  consideration 
and  bring  them  home  to  our  under- 
standing, what  follows?  Why,  that 
we  should  be  the  best  people  that  God 
has  upon  the  earth,  and  far  better  than 
any  other.  The  Lord  has  given  us  a 
Prophet,  to  give  counsels  in  reference 
to  that  which  pertains  to  the  general 
interests  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
tinually, and  He  has  blessed  him 
abundantly.  There  is  not  one  that 
can  dispute  the  honesty  and  integrity 
of  Brother  Wilford  Woodruff,our  Pres- 
ident. We  know  him.  Years  and 
years  he  has  been  testifying  of  these 
things  of  which  I  have  been  speaking, 
and  he  says  he  knows  them,  he  says 
he  understands  them  distinctly;  and 
we  ourselves  should  know  them.  Per- 


3  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


haps  not  quite  as  extensively  as  he 
knows  them.  For  instance,  an  astron- 
omer may  know  a  thousand  things  in 
reference  to  the  revolving  of  the  earth 
in  its  orbit  around  the  sun,  and  know  a 
great  many  facts  in  reference  to  the 
sun  that  thousands  are  ignorant  of; 
and  yet  these  thousands  that  are  per- 
fectly ignorant  of  those  many  things, 
know  one  thing  that  this  astronomer 
knows,  they  know  that  there  is  a  sun, 
they  see  there  is  a  sun;  they  know  it 
just  as  well  as  he  knows  it.  In  refer- 
ence to  this  Gospel  and  our  prospects 
in  the  next  life,  there  are  thousands 
that  know  it  just  as  well  as  President 
Woodruff  knows  it;  and  when  the 
resurrection  is  spoken  of,  they  know  it 
just  as  well  as  President  "Woodruff 
knows  it.  In  reference  to  "Mormon- 
ism,"  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  there 
are  thousands  that  know  it  just  as 
well  as  Joseph  Smith  knew  it.  They 
know  it  because  God  has  revealed  it  to 
them  perfectly. 

There  is  no  man  that  knows  the 
truth  of  this  work  more  than  I  do.  I 
know  it  fully;  I  know  it  distinctly.  I 
know  there  is  a  God  just  as  well  as 
any  man  knows  it,  because  God  has  re- 
vealed himself  to  me.  I  know  it  posi- 
tively. I  shall  never  forget  the  mani- 
festations of  the  Lord;  I  never  will 
forget  them  as  long  as  memory  en- 
dures. It  is  in  me.  There  is  something 
to  labor  for,  there  is  something  to  sac- 
rifice for.  When  the  Elders  go  forth 
among  the  nations,  they  dare  to  say 
this;  they  dare  to  say  that  God  has 
revealed  himself.  They  dare  to  say 
that  God  has  spoken  to  His  sons  and 
daughters  as  He  did  in  former  days, 
and  they  dare  to  say  that  He  has 
heard  the  prayers  of  the  house  of  Is- 
rael, He  has  heard  the  prayers  of  the 
honest  in  heart,  and  He  has  come 
down  as  He  did  in  the  days  of  Israel 
when  they  were  in  Egyptian  bondage 
to  deliver  them;  He  has  come  down  to 
relieve  the  distressed,  and  to  confer 
upon  them  knowledge,  intellectual^, 
spiritually,  and  to  place  them  in  a 
country  where  they  can  be  blessed  and 
saved  from  that  half-starvation  in 
Avhich  many  have  been  found  where  the 
Gospel  reached  them. 

Well,  these  are  glorious  principles 
that  God  has  revealed  to  us,  and  our 
prospects  are  grand  and  glorious.  Why, 
we  could  talk  through  all  the  days, the 


weeks  and  the  months  about  the  grand 
things  that  the  Lord  has  prepared  for 
those  that  are  faithful  and  continue  to 
the  end.  There  should  be  greater  union 
in  our  midst  than  we  find  today. 
There  is  a  perfect  union  in  the  quo- 
rum of  the  Twelve.  Should  there  not 
be  a  perfect  tinion  in  that  quorum? 
Most  assuredly,  every  one  would  say 
Yes,  a  perfect  union  in  the  quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles;  and  whoever 
may  be  appointed  to  fill  the  places  of 
those  that  are  vacant,  this  union  will 
still  continue  with  us.  And  there  is 
also  a  perfect  union  with  the  First 
Presidency,  and  should  there  not  be? 
Every  one  will  say,  certainly,  there 
should  be.  And  should  there  not  be 
a  perfect  union  with  the  seven  presi- 
dents of  the  Seventies?  There  most 
assuredly  should  be;  we  all  say  Yes. 
Should  there  not  be  a  perfect  union 
with  the  High  Councils  of  the  various 
Stakes  of  Zion?  Certainly  there  should 
be,  and  there  is  a  way  to  accomplish 
that  union.  And  the  same  way  with 
the  various  other  organizations  and 
quorums.  Should  there  not  be  a  per- 
fect union  with  the  presidencies  of 
Sta.kes?  Certainly,  and  if  I  were  a 
president  of  a  Stake,  I  would  not  rest 
day  or  night  until  I  had  union  with  my 
counselors.  Should  there  not  be  a  union 
with  the  Bishop  and  his  Counselors? 
Most  assuredly  there  should  be. 

Well,  what  is  more  important? 
Should  there  not  be  union  in  the  fami- 
ly? Should  there  not  be  union  with 
the  husband,  who  is  the  High  Priest 
in  his  family  and  expects  to  be  with 
them  in  the  next  life,  should  there  not 
be  a  perfect  union  with  him  and  his 
wife,  or  wives,  and  his  sons,  his  daugh- 
ters, his  sons-in-law,  and  his  daugh- 
ers-in-law?  Most  assuredly  there 
should.  And  why  should  any  man  be 
satisfied,  why  should  any  husband  and 
father  of  a  family  rest  satisfied  until 
he  effects  a  perfect  union,  that  is,  just 
as  far  as  a  perfect  union  can  be  ac- 
complished? And  in  this  matter  the 
father  should  make  himself  just  as 
perfect  as  a  man  can  in  this  life  be 
made  perfect  before  his  family.  And 
the  wife  should  make  herself  just  as 
perfect  as  a  woman  can  possibly  do  in 
this  life.  And  then  they  are  prepared 
to  make  their  children  just  as  perfect 
as  they  are  willing  and  are  capable  of 
being  made  perfect.     And  the  father 


PRESIDENT  rOSEFH  F.  SMITH. 


33 


and  the  mother  should  be  very  careful. 
The  wife  should  never  in  the  presence 
of  her  children  speak  disrespectfully 
of  her  husband.  If  she  thinks  her  hus- 
band has  done  wrong  (he  might  have 
done),  she  should  never  speak  of  it  in 
the  presence  of  her  children.  She 
should  take  him  out  of  the  presence  of 
her  children  and  there  tell  him  of  his 
faults,  in  a  pleasant  way,  but  never  in 
the  presence  of  the  children  speak  dis- 
respectfully of  the  father.  And  the 
father  the  same.  He  has  no  right  to 
speak  disrespectfully  of  his  wife  in 
the  presence  of  her  children.  And  I 
pray  God  to  give  the  husband  and  wife 
the  spirit  and  the  understanding  to 
correct  themselves  in  such  matters.  I 
know  that  a  great  many  of  the  difficul- 
ties that  now  appear,  and  the  disre- 
spect that  we  find  in  reference  to  the 
Priesthood,  among  young  people,  arises 
from  this  fact,  that  there  have  been 
difficulties  in  the  home  circle.and  there 
has  been  disrespect  expressed  in  their 
presence,  of  the  father  by  the  mother, 
or  of  the  mother  by  the  father.  Now 
I  know  these  things  are  so. 

Well,  I  see  my  time  has  expired.  God 
bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
fill  you  with  His  Holy  Spirit,  that  we 
may  become  sanctified,  that  we  may 
be  worthy  to  stand  in  the  presence  of 
God  in  time  to  come.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT   JOSEPH    F-  SMITH. 

The  Law  of  Tithing— Blessings  Predicated  upon  its 
Observance — Practical  Illustrations  of  its  Results 
— Personal  Testimony. 

I  cannot  say  that  I  feel  in  excellent 
condition  to  address  the  Conference 
this  morning,  but  it  is  desired  that  I 
should  say  a  few  words,  or  read  a  few 
words,  to  you,  as  the  Spirit  may  direct. 
Before  entering,  however,  upon  my  re- 
marks, I,  perhaps,  should  make  an 
apology,  for  it  is  really  not  agreeable 
with  my  feelings  to  diverge,  in  the 
least,  from  the  channel  of  the  remarks 
which  we  have  received  during  this 
morning's  service  and  throughout  all 
the  day  yesterday;  for  the  brethren 
have  been  led  on  spiritual  matters, 
and  they  have  spoken  to  us,  by  the 
Spirit,  and  have  given  unto  us  many 
very  important  truths,  suggestions  and 
admonitions,  and  I  would  delight  to 
continue  in  the  tenor  of  those  remarks 
for  the  short  time  that  I  may  occupy, 


but  if  I  do  not,  it  will  be  because  I 
feel  impresed  that  there  is  a  duty  rest- 
ing upon  me  which  I  will  endeavor, 
by  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  to  perform. 

I  desire  to  remind  the  congregation 
that  we  are  coming  to  the  close  of  the 
fruitful  season  of  the  year,  and  while 
many  of  the  people  have  perhaps  not 
gathered  as  heavy  crops  as  they  would 
like  to  have  gathered,  and  as  they 
may  have  gathered  in  the  years  past, 
yet,  taking  our  country,  and  valleys, 
as  a  whole,  we  are  led  to  believe  that 
the  harvests  have  been  bounteous,  and 
that  the  Lord  has  blessed  the  earth 
this  year,  and  has  given  to  the  hus- 
bandman excellent  fruits  for  his  la- 
bors; and  it  is  desirable  that  we  should 
reflect  upon  this  matter  for  a  little 
season.In  connection  with  this  thought, 
I  will  take  the  liberty  to  read  to- 
you  a  few  of  the  written  words  of  the 
Gospel  on  temporal  matters,  which  I 
think  apply  to  us  in  our  present  condi- 
tion and  at  this  time. 

In  answer  to  a  question,  "O  Lord, 
show  unto  thy  servants  how  much 
thou  requirest  of  the  properties  of  the 
people  for  a  tithing?"  the  Lord  an- 
swered: 

"Verily  thus  saith  the  Lord,  I  re- 
quire all  the  surplus  property  to  be 
put  into  the  hands  of  the  Bishop  of  my 
Church  of  Zion,  for  the  building  of 
mine  house,  and  for  the  laying  of  the 
foundation  of  Zion  and  for  the  Priest- 
hood, and  for  the  debts  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  my  Church.  And  this  shall 
be  the  beginning  of  the  tithing  of  my 
people.  And  after  that,  those  who 
have  thus  been  tithed  shall  pay  one- 
tenth  of  all  their  interest  annually; 
and  this  shall  be  a  standing  law  unto 
them  for  ever,  for  my  Holy  Priesthood, 
saith  the  Lord.  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  all  those 
who  gather  unto  the  land  of  Zion  shall 
be  tithed  of  their  surplus  properties, 
and  shall  observe  this  law,  or  they 
shall  not  be  found  worthy  to  abide 
among  you.  And  I  say  unto  you,  if 
my  people  observe  not  this  law,  to 
keep  it  holy,  and  by  this  law  sanctify 
the  land  of  Zion  unto  me,  that  my 
statutes  and  my  judgments  may  be 
kept  thereon,  that  it  may  be  most  holy, 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  it  shall  not  be  a 
land  of  Zion  unto  you.  And  this  shall 
be  an  ensample  unto  all  the  Stakes  of 
Zion.  Even  so.  Amen.  (Doc.  and 
Cov.,  Sec.  119.) 

Again  it  is  said: 

"Behold,  now  it  is  called  today  until 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  and 
verily  it  is  a  day  of  sacrifice  and  a  day 
for  the  tithing  of  my  people,  for  he 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  is  tithed  shall  not  be  burned  at 
His  coming,  for  after  today  cometh 
the  burning.  This  is  speaking  after 
the  manner  of  the  Lord;  for,  verily  I 
say,  tomorrow  all  the  proud  and  they 
that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble, 
and  I  will  burn  them  up,  for  I  am  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  and  I  will  not  spare  any 
that  remain  in  Babylon."  (Doc.  and 
Coy.,  Sec.  64,  v.  23,  24.) 

I  do  not  read  the  following  words 
because  I  think  they  are  entirely  ap- 
plicable to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  nor 
because  I  suppose  for  a  moment  that 
there  is  not  a  large  proportion  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  never 
in  their  hearts  even  thought  of  rob- 
bing God.  But  there  are  those  among 
us  who,  even  though  they  may  not 
liave  thought  seriously  that  they  were 
.guilty  of  robbing  God,  they  carelessly 
:and  through  their  negligence  place 
themselves  in  a  position  in  which  the 
■children  of  Israel  found  themselves 
.anciently  when  the  Prophet  uttered 
'these  words  against  them,  and  I  pro- 
pose to  read  them  as  they  are,  and  let 
them  apply  to  whomsoever  they  will, 
:and  whoever  are  not  guilty,  of  course, 
"will  feel  clear  in  their  consciences  to- 
ward the  Lord. 

"Then  shall  the  offering  of  Judah 
.-and  Jerusalem  be  pleasant  unto  the 
Lord,  as  in  the  days  of  old,  and  as  in 
former  years.  And  I  will  come  near 
to  you  to  judgment;  and  I  will  be  a 
swift  witness  against  the  sorcerers, 
and  against  the  adulterers, and  against 
false  swearers,  and  against  those  that 
oppress  the  hireling  in  his  wages,  the 
widow,  and  the  fatherless,  and  that 
turn  aside  the  stranger  from  his  right, 
and  fear  not  me,  saith  the  Lord  of 
hosts.  For  I  am  the  Lord,  I  change 
not;  therefore  ye  sons  of  Jacob  are 
not  consumed.  Even  from  the  days 
of  your  fathers  ye  are  gone  away  from 
mine  ordinances,  and  have  not  kept 
them.  Return  unto  me,  and  I  will  re- 
turn unto  you,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 
But  ye  said,  wherein  shall  we  return? 
"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have 
robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  wherein  have 
we  robbed  thee?  In  tithes  and  offer- 
ings. Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse;  for 
ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole 
nation.  Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into 
the  store  house,  that  there  may  be 
meat  in  mine  house,  and  prove  me  now 
herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I 
will  not  open  you  the  windows  of 
Tieaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing, 
that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough 
io  receive  it.  And  I  will  rebuke  the 
devourer  for  your  sakes,  and  he  shall 
not  destroy  the  fruits  of  your  ground; 
neither  shall  your  vine  cast  her  fruil 


before  the  time  in  the  field,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts.  And  all  nations  shall 
call  you  blessed,  for  ye  shall  be  a  de- 
lightsome land,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 
Your  words  have  been  stout  against 
me,  saith  the  Lord.  Yet  ye  say,  What 
have  we  spoken  so  much  against  thee. 
Ye  have  said,  It  is  vain  to  serve  God; 
and  what  profit  is  it  that  we  have 
kept  his  ordinance,  and  that  we  have 
walked  mournfully  before  the  Lord  of 
hosts?  And  now  we  call  the  proud  hap- 
py; yea,  they  that  work  wickedness 
are  set  up;  yea,  they  that  tempt  God 
are  even  delivered.  Then  they  that 
feared  the  Lord  spake  often  one  to  an- 
other, and  the  Lord  hearkened  and 
heard  it,  and  a  book  of  remembrance 
was  written  before  him  for  them 
that  feared  the  Lord,  and  that  thought 
upon  His  name.  And  they  shall  be 
mine,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts  in  that 
day  when  I  make  up  my  jewels;  and  I 
will  spare  them,  as  a  man  spareth  his 
own  son  that  serveth  him.  Then  shall 
ye  return,  and  discern  between  the 
righteous  and  the  wicked,  between  him 
that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth 
him  not."    (Mai.  iii,  4-18.) 

Now  I  want  to  read  another  little 
passage  of  Scripture.  It  is  ancient, 
however,  but  it  has  an  application; 
and  if  I  read  it,  you  who  hear  it  will 
be  able  to  make  the  application,  pos- 
sibly, to  suit  yourselves,  or  to  suit 
your  neighbors.  Rather  let  us  make 
the  application  to  ourselves,  each  ol 
us,  and  let  each  of  our  neighbors  do 
the  same. 

"And  as  soon  as  the  commandment 
came  abroad,  the  children  of  Israel 
brought,  in  abundance,  the  first  fruits 
of  corn,  wine  and  oil  and  honey  and 
of  all  the  increase  of  the  field,  and 
the  tithe  of  all  things  brought  they  in 
abundance.  And  concerning  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  and  Judah,  that  dwelt 
in  the  cities  of  Judah, they  also  brought 
in  the  tithe  of  oxen  and  sheep,  and 
the  tithe  of  holy  things  which  were 
consecrated  unto  the  Lord  their  God, 
and  laid  them  by  heaps.  In  the  third 
month  they  began  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion of  the  heaps,  and  finished  them 
in  the  seventh  month.  And  when 
Hezekiah  and  the  princes  came  and 
saw  the  heaps,  they  blessed  the  Lord 
and  His  people  Israel.  Then  Hezekiah 
questioned  with  the  Priests  and  the 
Levites  concerning  the  heaps;  and 
Azariah,  the  chief  priest  of  the  house 
of  Zadnck,  answered  him  and  said, 
'Since  the  people  began  to  bring  the 
offerings  into  the  house  of  the  Lord 
we  have  had  enough  to  eat,  and  have 
left  plenty,  for  the  Lord  hath  blessed 
His  neople,  and  that  which  is  left  is 
this  great  store.'  Then  Hezekiah 
commanded  to  prepare  chambers  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  they  pre- 
pared them."  (2  Chronicles  xxxi:  5-11.) 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


35 


No  doubt,  a  good  deal  more  could  be 
read  from  the  Scriptures  in  relation  to 
this  principle  of  tithing,  which  God  has 
revealed  to  us  in  this  dispensation,  and 
which  He  requires  at  our  hands,  that 
we  may  sanctify,  by  obedience  to  His 
law,  this  land  that  it  may  become  in- 
deed a  land  of  Zion  unto  us;  and  the 
promise  is,  that  if  we  will  obey  the 
laws  of  God,  if  we  will  put  our  trust 
in  Him,  if  we  will  draw  near  unto  Him 
He  will  draw  near  unto  us,  and  He 
will  reward  us  with  His  favor  and  His 
blessing'.  He  will  rebuke  the  devour- 
er,  and  He  will  cause  that  the  earth 
shall  be  fruitful,  that  it  shall  yield  in 
its  strength  to  the  husbandman,  the 
tiller  of  the  soil,  and  to  the  herder  of 
flocks,  He  will  increase  his  kine, 
and  will  prosper  him  upon  the  right 
hand  and  upon  the  left,  and  he  shall 
have  an  abundance,  because  he  puts 
his  trust  in  God;  he  draws  near  unto 
Him,  and  he  is  willing  to  prove  Him, 
to  see  whether  He  will  not  open  the 
windows  of  heaven  and  pour  out  bless- 
ings upon  him  that  he  shall  not  have 
room  to  contain  them.  Let  every  man 
who  has  received  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  receive  this  saying,  and  hearken 
to  these  words,  for  all  they  are  worth. 
Some  men  may  esteem  them  lightly, 
and  those  who  do  will,  without  doubt, 
fail  to  draw  near,  they  will  neglect  to 
prove  the  Lord,  they  will  not  fulfill  the 
commandments  that  He  has  given,  and 
they  will  never  know  that  God  tells 
the  truth,  and  that  He  is  able  to  ful- 
fill His  word  and  promise  unto  His 
people  when  they  are  willing  to  obey 
and  keep  His  law.  While  they  who 
appreciate  these  promises,  who  obey 
these  laws  that  were  given  anciently, 
and  have  been  renewed  again  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fullness  of  times, 
for  the  blessing  of  the  people,  for  the 
building  up  of  Zion,  for  the  feeding  of 
the  widow  and  the  orphan,  for  the 
spreading  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  for  the 
gathering  of  the  people  from  the  four 
quarters  of  the  earth,  those  who  heark- 
en to  these  words,  prize  them  as  the 
truth,  and  apply  them  in  their  prac- 
tice throughout  their  lives,  will  come 
to  know  that  God  is  a  rewarder  of 
those  who  diligently  serve  Him,  and 
that  He  is  able  to  fulfill  His  promises 
unto  them. 


A  short  time  ago  I  met  with  a 
brothei*— I  need  not  call  his  name,  for 
he  is  but  one  among  thousands  who 
can  bear  the  same  testimony  that  he 
bore,  and  he  bears  that  testimony  not 
only  by  the  word  of  mouth  but  by  the 
evidences  of  thrift,  of  prosperity,  of 
progress  and  of  improvement  which 
surround  him  in  the  midst  of  the 
deserts,  this  season  he  has  gathered 
in  rich  harvests,  his  farms  having  pro- 
duced in  abundance,  while  the  farms 
of  many  of  his  neighbors  are  clogged 
with  weeds,  and  their  harvests  have 
been  only  one-half  or  one-third  what 
his  has  been.  How  do  you  account 
for  it?  I  account  for  it  in  the  fact 
that  God  has  blessed  him,  and  so  does 
he,  for  he  is  an  intelligent  man,  a  man 
that  not  only  labors  wisely  and  prud- 
ently, but  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  in 
the  desire  of  his  heart  to  obey  His 
laws.  Said  he  to  me  and  my  com- 
panion with  whom  we  were  travelling: 
"God  has  blessed  me  because  I  have 
striven  to  keep  His  laws,  and  because 
I  have  been  true  to  my  family."  He 
went  out  there  upon  the  desert  seven 
or  eight  years  ago,  impoverished  by 
persecution  and  exile,  being  driven 
from  his  home  and  from  his  affairs, 
compelled  to  wander  in  exile  for 
years,  part  of  the  time  preaching  the 
Gospel.  He  returned  seven  or  eight 
years  ago,  and  settled  down  upon  the 
desert.  Today,  out  of  the  earth,  the 
burning  sands,  he  has  produced  beau- 
tiful homes,  he  has  fruitful  fields, 
which  are  spread  out  before  the  eyes 
of  any  man  who  wishes  to  go  and  look 
upon  them.  He  pays  his  tithing,  he  re- 
members his  offerings,  he  is  obedient 
to  the  laws  of  God,  and  he  is  not 
afraid  to  bear  testimony  to  his  friends 
and  neighbors  that  it  is  through  his 
obedience  that  God  has  blessed  and 
prospered  him,  and  made  him  what  he 
is  today.  He  is  not  the  only  one, 
there  are  others  that  are  prospered  in 
like  manner.  And  I  testify  it  is  be- 
cause God  has  blessed  him,  and  his 
soil,  and  his  labors,  and  has  given  him 
the  increase,  securing  to  him  the  bless- 
ings for  which  he  sought  and  labored. 
He  has  acted  in  good  faith  with  the 
Lord,  the  Lord  has  known  his  heart, 
and  has  blessed  him  accordingly,  and 
he  is  prosperous  today  in  that  desert, 
while  as  to  many  of  his  neighbors — go 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  look  for  yourselves  at  their  broad 
acres.  They  tell  the  story  for  them- 
selves. His  lands  are  clear  from  nox- 
ious weeds,  because  he  has  labored, 
and  taken  care  of  his  lands,  and  that 
by  his  industry  and  intelligent  appli- 
cation of  labor,  showing  that  God 
has  inspired  him,  and  enlightened  his 
mind.  The  Lord  has  blessed  him  in 
his  basket  and  in  his  store,  in  his  la- 
bors and  in  the  thoughts  of  his  mind, 
he  has  been  inspired  and  enabled  to 
accomplish  the  work  that  he  has  done; 
I  testify  that  it  is  because  of  man's 
.  faith  in  the  promises  of  the  Lord,  and 
his  desire  to  obey  His  laws,  that  he  is 
blessed  and  prospered  of  Him. 

I  have  been  blessed.  I  have  been  pros- 
pered. I  might  have  been  more  faithful, 
and  I  might  have  been  more  greatly 
blessed.  But  the  Lord  has  blessed  me 
insomuch  that  I  have  not  lacked  for 
anything  that  was  needful  for  my  wel- 
fare. I  have  not  had  luxury,  nor 
"rolled  in  wealth,"  but  God  has  fed 
and  clothed  me,  with  all  of  mine,  and 
He  has  given  us  health  and  strength  of 
body.  And  yet  we  might  have  done 
our  duty  better  and  been  entitled  to 
greater  blesings,  no  doubt.  I  aim  to 
pay  my  tithing.  Now  there  is  no  use 
of  my  saying  this  unless  it  be  true, 
because  the  evidences  are  there  in  the 
books.  If  I  say  I  pay  my  tithing  when 
I  do  not,  Brother  Heber  J.  Grant  or 
some  of  the  brethren  who  look  after 
these  things,  men  of  figures,  would  go 
to  the  books, and  they  would  say,  "You 
said  you  pay  your  tithing,  but  you  do 
not.  We  know  just  about  what  your 
income  is,  and  here  is  what  the  books 
say."  So  I  would  stand  condemned 
at  once  if  I  were  to  say  to  you  that  I 
paid  my  tithing  when  I  did  not  pay  my 
tithing,  because  not  only  the  Lord 
would  know  I  had  not  done  it,  but  my 
brethren  would  know  also  that  I  had 
not  done  it,  because  the  books  show 
exactly  what  I  have  paid.  No  matter 
about  that,  the  fact  is  this,  I  believe 
what  I  preach,  and  I  do  not  preach 
that  which  I  do  not  believe.  I  am 
not  here  for  that  purpose.  I  have  not 
been  called  to  that  mission,  or  for  that 
business.  I  preach  that  which  I  be- 
lieve and  that  which  I  do  know  to  be 
true;  and  I  do  know  that  if  men  will 
obey  the  laws  of  God,  God  will  honor 
and  bless  them.      I  have  proven  it 


all  my  life  through.  I  saw  it  mani- 
fested in  circumstances  which  occurred 
in  my  childhood,  and  I  know  that  God 
has  blessed  the  widow  and  the  father- 
less when  they  have  been  obedient  to 
His  laws  and  have  kept  His  command- 
ments. 

I  can  tell  you  the  history  of  a  widow 
woman,  with  a  large  family,  who  was 
more  particular,if  possible, to  pay  to  the 
Lord  what  belonged  to  Him  than  she 
was  to  pay  to  her  neighbors  to  whom 
she  might  be  indebted,  and  she  never 
was  indebted  to  her  neighbors,  thank 
God,  for  anything  that  she  did  not  pay 
to  the  last  cent,  because  the  Lord 
blessed  her  with  plenty,  and  in  her 
latter  years  she  did  not  have  to  bor- 
row of  her  neighbors,  nor  did  she  have 
to  call  upon  the  Church  for  support 
either,  but  she  paid  thousands  of  dol- 
lars in  products  and  money  into  the 
storehouse  of  the  Lord,  although  she 
was  a  widow  with  a  large  family  to 
support.  I  know  this.  I  can  testify 
of  this,  and  that  the  Lord  Almighty 
blessed  her,  not  only  in  the  products 
of  her  fields,  but  in  her  flocks  and 
herds.  They  were  not  devoured.  They 
were  not  destroyed.  They  did  not  lie 
down  and  die.  They  increased.  They 
did  not  stray  away;  and  thieves  did  not 
steal  them.  One  reason  for  that  was, 
she  had  a  little  boy  that  watched  them 
very  carefully  under  her  direction,  and 
prompting.  Her  eye  was  upon  every- 
thing, she  had  supervision  over  every- 
thing, she  directed  those  whom  she 
employed,  and  her  children;  and  I  am 
a  witness — and  here  sits  another  wit- 
ness [Patriarch  John  Smith] — that 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  blessed  her 
and  prospered  her  while  she  lived.and 
she  was  not  only  enabled  to  maintain 
herself  and  children  that  were  left  to 
her  in  poverty,  in  a  day  of  trial,  and 
when  she  was  driven  out  into  the  wil- 
derness, but  she  was  able  to  feed 
scores  of  the  poor,  and  to  pay  her 
tithes  besides.  "Verily  the  Lord  pros- 
pered her,  and  she  was  blessed.  I  re- 
member one  time  when  that  same 
widow  went  to  the  tithing  storehouse 
in  this  city  with  a  load  of  potatoes  in 
the  spring — they  had  been  kept  over 
winter.    And  one  of  the  tithing  office 

clerks  said  to  her,  "Widow   ,  T 

don't  see  any  use  of  your  having  to 
pay  tithing;    you     ought    not  to  pay 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


37 


tithing.  You  ought  to  keep  what  you 
have."  She  said  to  him,  "William,  you 
don't  know  what  you  are  talking 
about.  I  pay  my  tithing  that  I  may 
be  blessed."  "Would  you  deprive  me," 
she  said,  "of  a  blessing?"  "No,"  he 
said,  "I  would  have  you  keep  your 
tithing  and  bless  yourself  with  it." 
Said  he,  "There  are  a  number  of  able- 
bodied  people  here  that  are  well  quali- 
fied to  work  and  produce  their  living, 
but  they  are  living  from  the  tithing, 
and  I  don't  see  that  a  widow  should  be 
required  to  pay  her  tithing  to  feed 
those  that  are  not  working  for  it." 
Now  these  are  about  the  words  of  this 
man,  who  was  employed  at  the  tithing 
office.  But  "no,"  said  the  widow,  "I 
propose  to  pay  my  dues  to  the  Lord; 
I  propose  to  pay  my  tithing,  and  any 
man  that  would  prevent  me  from  do- 
ing this  would  deprive  me  of  a  bless- 
ing." Where  is  that  man  and  his  fami- 
ly today?  He  apostatized.  He  didn't 
last  long  in  the  Church.  He  turned 
away,  and  went  back  to  the  east  some- 
where and  took  his  family  with  him. 
He  probably  long  since  has  gone  to  his 
rest.  And  not  one  of  his  family  is  in 
the  Church.  I  bear  testimony  of  these 
things  because  I  know  what  I  am 
talking  about.  I  want  to  tell  you  a 
little  more:  While  this  widow  was 
paying  her  tithing  and  being  blessed, 
there  was  a  little  boy  who  really 
thought  that  tithing  office  clerk  was 
about  right.  That  widow's  boys  had 
to  work  very  hard,  and  they  knew  how 
those  potatoes  were  raised.  They  knew 
how  the  corn  and  other  grain  ^was 
raised,  they  knew  what  it  was  to  lake 
care  of  the  sheep,  and  the  horses  and 
the  cows  that  were  tithed,  and  all 
about  it.  They  knew  how  it  was  done, 
for  they  had  it  to  do.  And  one  of  the 
little  boys  of  that  widow  thought  that 
clerk  was  more  than  two-thirds  right 
about  it.  By  and  by  the  widow  died, 
but  she  left  very  comfortable  property 
for  her  children,  dug  out  of  the  desert 
here:  the  children  were  young, 
and  I  confess  to  you  that  they 
were  not  as  faithful  in  paying  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings  as  their 
mother  was;  they  had  lost  their 
mother,  and  what  was  the  result?  In 
a  few  years,  everything  that  she  left 
them  had  gone  to  rack  and  ruin.  That 
was  the  result.  The  cattle  were  turned 
out  upon  the  range,  and  that  was  the 


last  they  ever  saw  of  them.  The 
neighbors'  cattle  broke  into  the  fields 
and  destroyed  the  crops,  and  they  did 
not  reap  the  harvests  they  had  done 
before;  and  it  was  only  a  few  years 
after  the  death  of  the  widow  when  the 
children  had  not  much  to  show  for 
what  was  left  them,  and  it  was  not 
until  they  became  old  enough  to  ap- 
preciate the  truth,  and  to  commence 
to  obey  the  laws  of  God  and  keep  His 
commandments,  that  the  Lord  began 
to  bless  them  again,  to  build  them  up, 
to  increase  their  substance,  and  to  give 
them  what  was  necessary  for  their 
good.  And  as  they  have  obeyed  the 
commandments  of  God,  the  Lord  has 
blessed  them.  He  will  continue  to  do 
it  while  time  endures,  if  they  continue 
faithful;  and  throughout  the  countless 
ages  of  eternity  they  will  reap  the  re- 
ward of  fidelity  to  the  cause  of  truth 
and  to  the  laws  of  God;  and  so  will 
all  the  people  of  Israel.  I  testify  of 
this  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing: 

Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der Edward  Partridge. 


The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  com- 
mences: 

Com  2.  dearest    Lord,      descend  and 
dwell, 

By  faith  and  love  in  every  breast. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Abram 
Hatch. 

Awake,  yo  Saints  of  God,  awake! 

Call  on  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer, 
That  He  will  Zion's  bondage  break, 

And  bring  to  naught    the  fowler's 
snare, 

was  sung  by  the  choir. 

PRE  ST.  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Importance  of  sustaining  the  Authority  of  God — 
Good  effects  of  reading  the  Written  Word — 
Skepticism  in  secular  literature — Evil  results  of 
ignoring  the  Counsels  of  God's  Servants. 

In  standing  up  this  afternoon  to  ad- 
dress you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
do  so  with  the  hope  that  I  shall  have 
your  faith  and  prayers,  and  that  the 
spirit  that  has  rested  upon  our  breth- 
ren who  have  spoken  thus  far  during 
the  Conference  will  be  given  unto  me 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


also.  To  arise  before  a  congregation 
of  this  size  is  almost  appalling,  and  no 
man  that  realizes  the  responsibility  or 
teaching  the  people,  it  seems  to  me, 
would  dare  do  so  unless  he  felt  that  the 
Lord  would  assist  him  and  be  with 
him. 

"We  have  heard  a  great  many  ex- 
cellent instructions  during  yesterday 
and  .this  morning.  We  have  had 
spiritual  instructions,  and  also  instruc- 
tions concerning  practical  duties,  al- 
though there  is  nothing  connected  with 
our  religion  that  is  not  really  practical. 
We  can  apply  that  word  to  all  the 
duties  that  devolve  upon  us  as  indi- 
viduals and  as  a  people. 

We  have  heard  considerable  concern- 
ing the  authority  that  God  has  re- 
stored. I  feel  that  this  is  an  im- 
portant theme,  and  one  that  cannot  be 
dwelt  upon  too  much  in  our  hearing. 
There  has  been  noticeably,  it  seems  to 
me,  considerable  change  in  the  Church 
in  relation  to  that  authority,  and  its 
claims  upon  and  its  standing  among 
the  people.  Anything  that  contributes 
to  weaken  that  authority  or  to  lessen 
its  value  in  the  minds  of  the  people  is 
something  to  be  avoided  and,  I  believe, 
to  be  dreaded.  The  success  and  the 
triumph  of  the  work  of  God  thus  far 
can  only  be  attributed  to  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  has  placed  in  His  Church  His 
Priesthood,  and  has  given  it  authority; 
for  to  its  guidance,  to  its  influence 
and  activity  among  the  people,  can 
be  ascribed  the  prosperity  of  this  work 
of  our  God.  To  no  other  cause  can  we 
attribute  the  deliverances  that  have 
been  wrought  out  in  our  behalf.  Its 
operations  have  been  most  beneficent. 
We  have  heard  considerable  concern- 
ing it  in  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made.  But  I  have  noticed  myself  a- 
mong  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
where  the  people  of  God  pay  attention 
to  the  written  word,  and  cher- 
ish and  observe  the  written 
word,  they  are  always  better 
prepared  to  hear  the  oral  instructions 
of  the  servants  of  God;  they  are  bet- 
ter prepared  to  receive  those  instruc- 
tions; they  have  greater  interest  in 
seeking  to  obtain  instructions,  than 
they  have  when  they  are  careless 
about  the  written  word  of  God.  I  have 
felt  for  some  time  that  there  is  an  in- 
difference,   not    to    call    it    by  any 


stronger  name,  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  regard  to  the  word  of  God.  I 
would  like  to  ask  this  congregation, 
how  many  of  you  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  the  dis- 
courses of  the  Elders  as  they  are  pub- 
lished? How  many  of  you  make  a 
practice  of  reading  the  word  of  God 
as  it  is  in  these  records,  and  as  it  ap- 
pears in  published  discourses?  I  am 
afraid  that  if  you  were  interrogated 
upon  this  point  many  would  say,  "I 
have  not  read  the  Bible  for  such  a 
length  of  time;  I  have  not  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  for  such  a  length  of 
time;  I  have  not  read  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  for  such  a 
length  of  time;  I  do  not  read  the  dis- 
courses of  the  Elders  that  are  pub- 
lished; I  do  not  take  the  paper  that 
contains  them;   I  prefer  other  papers." 

I  hope  I  am  not  doing  the  people  of 
God  injustice  in  making  this  state- 
ment; but  I  believe  that  comparative- 
ly few  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  in 
the  habit  of  reading  the  words  of  God 
that  He  has  given  to  us  in  the  records 
that  have  come  to  us.  I  believe  there 
are  families,  from  what  I  hear  and 
what  I  notice  myself,  that  do 
not  open  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
or  the  Bible,  or  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  from  one 
month's  end  to  another.  These  books, 
if  they  are  in  possession  of  families, 
too  frequently  lie  covered  with  dust, 
untouched,  and  not  read.  Do  I  do  any 
injustice  in  making  this  statement?  It 
I  do,  I  am  glad  of  it — that  is,  I  would 
be  very  glad  if  what  I  say  is  not  cor- 
rect, and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Bible,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
the  discourses  of  the  Elders  are 
perused  regularly,  and  sought  for  with 
avidity.  If  we  talk  about  the  living 
oracles  and  want  to  pay  respect  to 
them,  how  shall  we  do  this?  Shall  we 
do  it  by  never  reading  their  words — by 
paying  no  attention  to  that  which  they 
say?  That  is  a  very  poor  way  of  do- 
ing. We  ought  to  listen  to  their  words. 
When  we  cannot  hear  their  words,  we 
should  read  them;  for  they  are  the 
words  of  the  authorized  servants  of 
God.  I  feel  that  there  is  a  great  neg- 
lect among  us  in  this  respect.  I  notice 
it  in  my  own  family,  I  notice  it  in 
other  families,  and  still  in  my  own 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  O.  GANNON. 


39 


family  I  do  the  best  I  can  in  these 
matters.  But  you  will  find  that, 
among  certain  classes,  scientific  works 
are  more  read,  magazines  are  more 
read,  novels  are  more  read,  publica- 
tions that  do  not  contribute  to  faith 
are  more  read,  and  the  result  is  that 
we  are  in  danger  of  a  wave  of  in- 
fidelity and  unbelief  sweeping  through 
our  land,  to  the  injury  of  the  faith  of 
the  rising  generation.  It  is  a  thing 
that  fills  me  with  more  fear  than  al- 
most any  thing  else  concerning  our- 
selves and  our  children.  Tou  cannot 
take  a  magazine  up — the  best  and  most 
popular  magazines — without  finding 
articles  in  it  that  are — I  was  going  to 
say  designed — but  their  purport  and  the 
drift  of  their  arguments  are  opposed 
to  the  truths  that  are  contained  in  the 
Bible,  Book  of  Mormon  and  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  Talk  with  young  men 
who  go  to  universities  and  colleges, 
and  you  will  find  that  many  are  more 
or  less  imbued  with  these  ideas.  I 
need  only  refer  to  a  few — the  age 
of  the  earth,  prehistoric  man,  the  crea- 
tion of  man,  man's  entrance  upon  the 
earth,  the  nature  of  man's  descent. 
The  truth  concerning  these  principles, 
is  being  undermined  and  weakened 
so  that  at  the  present  time,  if  it  were 
not  for  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we 
ourselves  would  be  at  sea.  But  those 
who  do  not  receive  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  as  divine 
are  in  a  deplorable  condition; 
they  do  not  know  what  is  true.  Many 
of  the  clergy  are  in  the  same  position 
as  the  rest  of  the  world;  they  have 
adopted  the  new  ideas  concerning  these 
scientific  discoveries.  Hundreds  of 
clergymen,  who  call  themselves  min- 
isters of  the  Gospel,  do  not  believe  in 
Adam  and  Eve  and  their  creation;  do 
not  believe  in  the  Mosaic  account  of 
creation;  do  not  believe  that 
man  is  a  son  of  God,  descended 
from  God;  but  they  believe  that  the 
earth  has  been  in  existence  and  peo- 
pled by  man  ages  before  the  period 
given  in  the  Mosaic  account.  There  is 
no  doubt  that  the  earth  is  much  older 
than  many  of  us  think  it  is.  But  they 
mingle  truth  with  error,  and  they  build 
up  fallacies,  and  they  are  propagating 
them;   and  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who 


read  this  literature.and  do  not  read  the 
word  of  God,  are  in  danger  of  losing 
their  faith. 

We  have  in  these  three  books  to 
which  I  have  referred  the  pure  word  of 
God— at  least  in  two  of  them— uncoi- 
rupted,  undefiled;  and  we  can 
read  them  with  a  knowledge 
that  they  are  true.  We  have 
the  word  of  God  in  the  Bible;  but 
it  has  been  translated  by  uninspired 
men.  And  no  matter  how  men  may 
pile  up  arguments  and  build  theories— 
they  may  build  them  as  high  as  these 
mountains  of  ours,  and  they  may  ap- 
pear to  be  true,  yet  we  know  they  are 
not  true  where  they  come  in  contact 
with  these  records  of  ours,  because  we 
know  that  these  records  are  true.  God- 
has  revealed  them,  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  has  been  translated  by  a  man 
of  God  and  has  come  to  us  in  purity. 
Therefore,  when  we  read  about  our 
father  Adam  and  our  mother  Eve,  read 
about  the  fall  of  man,  the  creation  of 
the  earth  or  the  peopling  of  the  earth, 
about  the  Son  of  God  and  His  atone- 
ment to  redeem  us  from  the  ''ill,  we 
know  that  those  principles  are  true- 
and  from  God. 

It  is  important  that  we  as  a  people 
should  understand  these  things,  and 
that  we  should  build  our  faith  mv 
pregnably  upon  the  rock  of  revelation, 
constant  revelation;  not  alone  the 
revelation  given  two  thousand  years, 
ago  but  also  the  revelation  given  to- 
day] and  which  comes  to  us  in  its  purity. 

I  have  been  impressed  very  much  of 
late  with  the  danger  to  which  our 
young  people  are  exposed.  When  the 
parents  neglect  to  read  the  word  of 
God,  when  they  prefer  novels,  maga- 
zines, or  any  kind  of  light  reading, 
and  do  not  set  the  example  by  read- 
ing that  which  God  has  given  to  us, 
you  may  expect  the  children  to  do  the 
same.  They  will  not  take  up  the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants to  read,  because  when 
they  read  these  illustrated  pa- 
pers, these  catchy  prints,  these 
light  novels,  everything  of  a  serious 
nature  loses  its  interest.  To  people 
who  are  fed  on  highly  seasoned  food,, 
a  plain  diet  is  not  inviting;men  who 
have  been  accustomed  to  stimulants 
crave  stimulants.   People  who  read  the 


4o 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


class  of  literature  I  refer  to  are  in  the 
same  condition  mentally;  they  desire 
the  sensational,  and  reading  which 
does  not  have  some  of  this  element  in 
it  possesses  but  little  interest.  The  re- 
sult is,  our  books  and  our  discourses', — 
that  which  God  reveals — go  without 
being  perused. 

I  do  not  want  to  dwell  on  this — it  is 
not  necesary.  I  leave  it  with  you  to 
reflect  upon  it.  I  look  upon  it  as  a  most 
serious  matter  that  should  be  called  to 
the  attention  of  this  Conference.  I 
Wish  I  had  language  to  make  you  all 
realize  the  danger  we  are  in  from  mis- 
chievous literature,  and  the  necessity 
for  a  reformation  in  our  reading 
habits.  Do  not  wonder  at  your  sons 
and  daughters  going  astray  and  losing 
the  faith,  when  they  do  not  read  the 
word  of  God. 

Do  you  know  what  I  believe  about 
the  living  oracles?  I  believe  that  the 
bondage  we  are  in  today — I  want  you 
all  to  hear  what  I  have  to  say,  for  I 
want  to  say  it  considerately — the  bond- 
age we  are  in  today  is  due  to  the 
neglect  of  this  people  in  listening  to 
counsel;  and  not  only  in  not  listening 
to  it,  but  in  not  seeking  it.  We  are  in 
bondage — in  debt.  As  a  community 
we  groan  under  a  load  of  debt.  We 
have,  it  is  said,  hundreds  of  unem- 
ployed people.  I  do  not  know  how 
many  there  are,  but  reports  come  to 
the  effect  that  they  are  numerous. 
Why  is  it?  If  this  people  had  listened 
to  the  counsel  of  the  servants  of  God, 
or  had  sought  it,  would  this  be  the 
case?  Certainly  not,  in  my  opinion. 
God  has  not  led  us  here  to  these 
mountains  to  starve.  He  has  not  given 
the  spirit  of  gathering  to  these  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  the  remote  parts  of 
the  earth  and  brought  them  here  to 
walk  the  streets  in  idleness,  with 
their  hands  in  their  pockets.  He 
has  not  given  his  spirit  to  such 
an  extent  that  the  authorities  may 
have  to  repress  it,  and  say 
to  the  Elders  abroad,  "Restrain  the 
people;  do  not  let  them  come  here  for 
the  present."  Why,  what  an  incongru- 
ity, what  a  strange  thing,  to  say  that 
God  would  give  the  spirit  of  gathering 
to  the  people  to  come  where  they  could 
not  get  employment,  and  where  they 
would  go  hungry  and  have  to  live  on 
charity;  or,  after  they  had  come,  re- 
turn to  their  own  lands,  as  some  have 


done.  To  me,  the  very  sight  of  this 
condition  is  an  evidence  that  there  is 
something  wrong,  or  something  has 
been  wrong. 

Let  me  refer  to  the  railroads  here. 
How  many  Latter-day  Saints  are  em- 
ployed on  the  railroads  in  this  State? 
I  wonder  who  can  answer.  Who  built 
these  railroads?  How  many  railroads 
are  there  in  this  State  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  did  not  build  and  own? 
There  are  but  few  in  this  State  ol 
Utah  that  they  did  not  build  and  own  or 
control.  Hundreds  of  Utah  men  were 
employed  on  these  railroads.  Suppose 
that  every  man  that  had  owned  any 
share  in  them  had  said  to  himself,  "I 
shall  not  part  with  my  stock  in  these 
agencies,  if  I  can  help  it;  I  shall  main- 
tain my  holdings  in  these  roads,  so 
that  my  fellow  citizens  can  get  em- 
ployment on  them,  and  the  policy  not 
been  adopted  in  our  State  of  sending 
to  remote  states  for  people  to  do  the 
work  that  our  own  citizens  ca,n  do," 
what  would  have  been  the  result? 
Why,  today,  instead  of  our  people 
walking  around  unemployed,  as  many 
have  to  do,  they  would  find  abundant 
employment.  I  do  not  want  to  risk  a 
guess  at  the  number  that  would  be  em- 
ployed;  you  can  guess  as  well  as  I. 

Herein  we  are  reaping  the  conse- 
quences of  our  selfishness  and  want  of 
prudence.  Do  you  wonder  at  it,  when 
God  has  told  us  so  plainly  what  we 
shall  do?  When  God  has  placed  men  to 
guide  us  and  to  counsel  us,  and  their 
counsels  have  been  neglected  and  dis- 
regarded? I  wonder  that  God  has 
been  so  merciful  with  us  as  he  has 
been  in  these  things,  and  that  He  has 
not  scourged  us  more  than  He  has. 
I  look  upon  the  highest  duty  that  I 
have  in  connection  with  the  service  of 
God — after  personally  laboring  to 
make  myself  pure  and  to  conform  to 
all  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel — 
my  first  duty  after  that  is  to  build  up 
Zion.  God  sent  me  to  earth  for  that. 
He  has  given  me  His  Spirit  for  that. 
He  has  gathered  us  together  to  build 
up  Zion.  It  is  the  highest,  the  noblest, 
the  plainest  duty  that  God  has  as- 
signed to  us,  as  a  people  and  as  in- 
dividuals. Up  to  this  hour  I  have 
never  labored  for  anything  else.  I 
would  not  go  anywhere  to  build  up 
anything  else.  I  have  never  had  the 
inclination  to  do  it.    I  wanted  every 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  O.  CAN  SON 


41 


minute  of  my  time,  every  faculty  of 
my  mind  and  body,  every  power  and 
talent  that  God  has  given  me,  to  be 
devoted  exclusively  to  the  building  up 
of  Zion.  I  have  no  other  aim  in  life, 
and  I  want  no  other  aim.  Now,  if  this 
be  my  motive,  I  should  not  do  any- 
thing at  any  time  to  injure  Zion.  If  I 
own  stock  in  a  railroad,  or  in  any  other 
public  enterprise,  and  am  offered  a 
good  price  for  it,  I  should  first  ask 
myself,  Is  the  sale  of  this  consistent 
with  the  building  up  of  Zion?  Through 
the  invitation  of  President  Young,  I 
was  one  of  the  original  incorporators 
of  one  of  our  railways.  I  could  have 
sold  my  interest  in  that  at  several 
times  for  a  considerable  sum  of  money. 
But  I  desired  the  control  kept  here, 
and  I  said,  No,  I  will  not  sell.  But 
the  control  passed  out  of  the  State, 
and  though  the  stock  has  decreased 
very  greatly  in  value,  I  have  had  the 
satisfaction  of  knowing  that  I  have 
not  contributed  in  any  manner  to 
the  bringing  about  of  the  condition  of 
things  which  I  now  deplore. 

Now,  when  I  say  "building  up 
Zion,"  do  I  mean  by  that,  building  up 
a  system  that  is  peculiar  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  that  will  exclude  all 
but  Latter-day  Saints?  No.  There  is 
where  the  misconception  arises 
in  regard  to  our  views  and 
aims.  Whenever  Zion  is  built  up 
as  it  should  be,  we  will  have 
a  condition  of  things  that  will  be  the 
admiration  and  the  attraction  of  the 
whole  world.  There  will  be  no  heavy 
taxation.  There  will  be  no  officers 
working  for  enormous  salaries.  There 
will  be  no  bribery.  There  will  be  no 
unthrift,  money  being  spent  lavishly, 
improvidently,  and  in  a  way  to  oppress 
the  people.  Whenever  Zion  shall  rule, 
the  very  opposite  of  this  will  be  the 
condition  of  society.  The  widow  can 
live  on  her  lot,  and  not  be  taxed  to 
deprive  her  of  it.  The  workingman  can 
have  his  acre  and  a  quarter,  with  his 
improvements  on  it,  and  can  hold  it 
without  being  taxed  out  of  it.  That 
will  be  the  condition  when  Zion  shall 
prevail.  There  will  be  no  oppression. 
There  will  be  no  sin  permitted  that  the 
law  can  reach.  There  will  be  a  condi- 
tion of  society  that  all  honest,  virtu- 
ous and  upright  men  will  admire.  I 
labor  with  all  my  might,   and  have 


done  since  I  was  old  enough,  to  bring 
to  pass  that  happy  condition.  I  pray 
for  it  with  all  the  faith  I  can.  It  is 
my  constant  thought,  by  night  and  by 
day.  I  labor  for  it  as  well  as  pray  for 
it.  For  I  want  a  reign  of  righteous- 
ness to  be  ushered  in.  I  want  to  see 
a  condition  of  things  in  this  State  that 
shall  be  such  as  I  have  feebly  attempt- 
ed to  describe.  And  I  know  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  the  same  de- 
sire. We  may  be  mistaken  at 
times;  we  may  be  misled;  we 
may  do  foolish  things;  but 
underneath,  underlying  all  our 
thoughts  and  all  our  acts,  is  the  in- 
tense desire  to  see  a  better  condition 
of  things  brought  about,  not  for  our- 
selves alone,  but  for  all.  And  I  want 
to  say  to  you  here  to  day  that  it  never 
will  be  brought  about  until  the  voice 
of  experienced  men,  especially  inspired 
men,  will  be  listened  to.  In  any  other 
community,  where  right  prevails,  men 
would  not  say  concerning  these  men 
that  are  around  here  what  they  do 
about  us.  It  is  because  we  are  mem- 
bers of  a  church  that  we  are  assailed; 
because  they  do  not  want  the  influence 
of  that  wisdom  and  that  experience 
felt  among  the  people.  Here  are  men 
on  this  stand  who  have  helped  build 
this  commonwealth.  They  laid  the 
foundations  of  it.  They  carried  it  for- 
ward. They  helped  enact  the  laws  that 
have  governed  it.  And  when  this  Ter- 
ritory passed  out  of  the  control  of 
those  who  were  influenced  by  the 
policy  of  these  men,  it  was  in  a  con- 
dition that  was  most  admirable.  It 
was  out  of  debt,  and  lightly  taxed.  It 
was  in  a  condition  that  people  look 
back  to  now  and  admire,  and  regret 
that  we  cannot  have  such  a  condition 
exist  today.  Do  not  mistake  me,  and 
think  that  I  mean  the  Latter-day 
Saints  should  have  exclusive  control  of 
civil  affairs;  not  so;  no  more  than 
others  should  have  exclusive  control. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  talk  about 
listening  to  the  oracles  of  God.  Do  you 
listen  to  them?  Do  you  think  them 
entitled  to  your  support  and  your  con- 
fidence? If  you  had  offered  to  you  a 
good  bargain  in  selling  out  some  im- 
portant enterprise,  would  you  jask 
yourselves,  "How  is  this  going  to  af- 
fect the  interests  of  Zion?"  Or  would 
you  say,  "I  can  make  money  out  of 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


this,  and  I  will  take  care  of  myself?" 
I  say  to  you  that  whenever  Latter-day 
Saints  come  to  the  latter  conclusion 
they  will  lose  by  it.  The  money  that 
they  get  will  not  do  them  nor  their 
children  good.  I  only  state  a 
truism  when  I  say  this.  To  prove  it 
we  have  only  to  look  around  us  and  see 
results.  The  men  that  have  sought 
counsel  and  followed  it  have  been 
blessed  in  all  they  have  done.  The 
money  they  have  made  has  been  pros- 
pered, because  it  has  been  made  prop- 
erly— it  has  been  made  with  a  view  to 
carrying  out  the  purposes  of  God. 

I  would  like  to  bring  these  questions 
home  to  us  in  a  practical  manner.  Let 
us  look  at  them  as  practical  men.  We 
are  here  in  the  State  of  Utah.  It  is 
our  duty  to  build  up  this  State.  Not 
for  the  Mormons  alone — do  not  mistake 
my  position — not  for  the  Mormons,  but 
for  every  man  and  woman  that  wants 
to  live  an  honest  and  upright  life  and 
to  be  a  good  citizen.  With  the  views 
and  the  knowledge  I  have,  I  should  de- 
plore a  feeling  that  would  prompt  us 
to  build  it  up  for  ourselves  alone.  We 
are  in  the  world,  and  a  part  of  the 
world.  God  has  given  us  a  mission  in 
the  world,  and  we  know  how  to  fill  it. 
We  cannot  be  accused  of  egotism  if 
we  say  that  we  know  how  to  build  up 
this  country.  We  know  what  policy  to 
pursue  to  make  this  community  a  hap- 
py and  prosperous  community.  The 
proofs  are  in  sight.  We  do  not  talk 
as  men  who  have  not  had  experience. 
We  understand  the  question.  And  we 
know  that  if  the  people  would  listen 
to  the  counsels  that  are  given  to  them, 
they  would  be  led  in  a  path  of  safety, 
a  path  of  peace,  and  a  path  of  pros- 
perity. But  there  is  every  effort  being 
made,  and  has  been  for  some  time,  to 
destroy  this  influence,  and  many  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  apparently,  have 
not  had  discernment  enough  to  dis- 
cover the  spirit  that  actuates  those 
who  are  making  these  attempts. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  in  this  Confer- 
ence, to  fill  us  with  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  to  give  unto  us  the  words  of  life 
and  salvation  and  cause  our  hearts  to 
rejoice.  I  want  us  to  see  our  errors.  I 
want  to  talk  about  these  errors.  I 
want  to  warn,  where  we  need  warning 
: — and  we  do  need  warning.  I  know  we 
are  not  as  we  should  be.    I  am  not 


satisfied  myself  with  my  own  condi- 
tion. I  am  not  satisfied  with  the 
condition  of  the  Later-day  Saints. 
I  do  not  want  to  say  anything  to  lull 
you  to  sleep.  I  do  not  want  to  sing 
any  siren  songs  in  your  ears.  It  is 
pleasant  enough  to  talk  about  those 
pleasant  things;  but  here  is  a  condi- 
tion of  things  before  us  that  we  can- 
not close  our  eyes  to.  How  shall  this 
condition  be  remedied?  How  shall  this 
people  be  led  and  guided  out  of  the 
difficulties  in  which  they  are  involved? 
What  can  we  say  to  you,  to  point  out 
the  dangers  that  you  are  in.  and  to 
show  you  the  path  that  you  should 
tread  to  escape  these  dangers,  and  to 
be  the  people  that  God  designs  we 
shall  be.  There  is  only  one  way — and 
we  will  all  have  to  come  to  it — and 
that  is  to  listen  xo  the  voice  of  God 
in  our  midst,  and  ask  for  it,  and  not 
be  as  some  are,  "Don't  talk  to  me.  I 
don't  want  any  church  interference.  I 
don't  care  how  much  you  know;  you 
may  have  all  the  experience  in  the 
world;  but  I  don't  want  to  talk  to  you, 
you  are  an  officer  in  the  church,  ana 
I  don't  want  any  ecclesiastical  inter- 
ference with  me."  Why,  that  spirit — 
where  will  it  lead  us  to?  You  can 
answer  that  question  yourselves,  each 
one  of  you.  I  believe  in  the  principles 
of  government.  I  have  my  views  con- 
cerning them;  you  all  have,  no  doubt. 
But  shall  We,  who  know  what  we  do, 
accept  party  as  the  paramount  issue 
among  us?  When  I  heard  the  propo- 
sition that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  divide  on  party  lines,  I  advo- 
cated it.  I  have  not  changed  my  feel- 
ings in  regard  to  it.  I  know  that  it  is 
better  for  us.  But  we  need  not  set  up 
party  as  an  idol  and  worship  it,  as 
though  it  was  a  new-found  idol, 
which  we  should  bow  down 
to  and  worship.  That  is  the 
other  extreme.  We  should  not  go 
to  these  extremes.  We  should  act  like 
wise  people,  and  do  that  which  is  the 
best  for  us  in  every  way.  I  do  not,  in 
saying  this,  wish  to  say  one  word 
about  politics,  only  to  clear  myself 
from  any  suspicion  of  saying  anything 
in  opposition  to  the  maintenance  of 
party  lines.  As  I  have  said,  I  believed 
in  the  division  on  party  lines  when  1 
heard  it  was  being  attempted.  I  knew 
it  was  the  right  thing  to  do.    I  have 


THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


43 


been  glad  ever  since  that  we  did  it, 
and  I  would  not  have  it  changed  if  it 
could  be  helped — and  it  can  be 
helped.  We  should  not  interfere 
with  each  other  in  our  party  rights, 
our  party  beliefs,  or  party  allegiance. 
But  do  not  go  to  such  extremes;  do 
not  be  carried  away  by  them. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  with  his  Holy 
Spirit,  that  during  this  Conference  we 
may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing.  I 
humbly  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

were  presented  to  the  Conference  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon,  as  fol- 
lows: 

Wilford  "Woodruff,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Lorenzo  Snow  as  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  —  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church— John 
Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seven- 
ties— Seymour  Is.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  and  Rulon  S. 
Wells. 

William  B.  Freston  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  as  his 
first  and  John  R.  Winder  as  his  sec- 
ond counselor. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  Church 
historian  and  general  Church  recorder, 
with  John  Jaques  and  Charles  W. 
Penrose  as  his  assistants. 

As  the  General  Church  Board  of 
Education — Wilford  Wcodruff,  Loren- 
zo Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  Willard  Young,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  James  Sharp,  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  John  Nicholson. 


As  Trustee-ii'.-Ti  ust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshippers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jpsus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints- -Wilford  Woodruff. 

John  Nicholson  ?s  Clerk  of  the  Gen- 
eral Conference. 

All  of  the  voting  to  sustain  the  au- 
thorities was  un?mimous. 

In  presenting  the  names  to  fill  the 
vacancies  in  the  quorum  of  the 
Apostles  and  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enties, President  George  Q.  Cannon 
said: 

It  is  well  known  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  there  are  two  vacancies  in 
the  quorum  of  the  Twelve.  Apostles, 
one  through  death,  and  another 
through  the  severance  of  a  person 
from  the  quorum.  We  now  propose 
to  fill  those  vacancies,  and  present  to 
the  Conference  the  name  of  Matthias 
F.  Cowley  to  be  one  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles. 

It  may  be  well  to  state  to  this  Con- 
ference that  Brother  Matthias  F. 
Cowley  is  at  present  the  second  coun- 
selor to  the  President  of  the  Oneida 
Stake  of  Zion.  He  is  a  man  that  has 
labored  in  the  ministry  very  zealously, 
and  is  known,  to  all  acquainted  with 
him,  as  a  man  of  worth. 

(His  name  was  then  put  to  the  Con- 
ference, and  he  was  sustained  by 
unanimous  vote.) 

It  is  now  proposed  that  Abraham 
Owen  Woodruff  be  ordained  one  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

He  has  been  a  missionary  to  Ger- 
many, has  acquired  the  language 
there,  has  labored  very  zealously  in 
that  mission,  and  since  his  return  has 
been  very  zealous  and  indefatigable 
in  his  labors  here  among  us.  He  is  a 
youthful,  but  a  promising  man. 

(His  name  was  then  presented,  and 
the  vote  to  sustain  him  was  also 
unanimous.) 

I  may  say,  before  sitting  down,  that 
the  mind  of  the  Lord  was  diligently 
sought  for  in  relation  to  these  appoint- 
ments, and  we  can  say  to  you  that  the 
mind  of  the  Lord  was  obtained,  and 
we  know  that  the  men  who  have  been 
chosen  are  the  men  whom  the  Lord 
has  designated  to  us  to  fill  these 
positions. 

There  is  a  vacancy  in  the  Seven 
Presidents  of  the  Seventies.  It  is  now 
proposed  that  Joseph    W.  McMurrin 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  ordained  to  fill  the  vacancy  occa- 
sioned by  the  death  of  Elder  Edward 
Stevenson. 

(His  name  was  presented,  and  he 
likewise  was  sustained  by  unanimous 
vote  of  the  Conference.) 

I  wish  to  add  in  relation  to  this  ap- 
pointment, the  mind  of  the  Lord  was 
also  sought,  and  this  is  as  it  came  to 
us.  Elder  McMurrin  is  now  on  a  mis- 
sion in  Great  Britain,  and  is  one  of 
the  Presidency  of  the  European  mis- 
sion. 

"We  wish  to  say  to  the  Saints  who 
are  assembled  here  that  neither  of 
these  brethren  has  known  of  this  till 
now;  so  you  must  not  be  surprised  if 
they  are  embarrassed.  "When  we  de- 
cided upon  it,  it  was  understood  that 
we  should  keep  this  to  ourselves  until 
they  should  be  presented  here.  We 
did  not  want  anyone  to  know  about  .it 
or  to  talk  about  it,  and  they  are  as 
much  surprised,  I  suppose,  as  any  of 
you  can  be. 

PRE  ST.  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 

said:  I  want  to  say  to  these  two 
young  men  whom  we  have  called  to 
fill  these  places,  they  are  occupying  a 
very  important  position,  a  position  of 
great  responsibility,  and  we  hope  and 
trust  that,  although  young  men,  they 
may  have  the  spirit  and  power  of 
their  calling  and  Priesthood  and  Apos- 
tleship,  and  be  enabled  to  magnify  it 
and  fulfill  the  duties  required  at  their 
hands.  "We  will  give  our  brethren  time 
to  express  themselves  now  with  regard 
to  their  views  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  the  Priesthood  unto  which  they 
have  been  called,  and  their  purposes 
in  magnifying  and  fulfilling  this  duty 
that  is  now  resting  upon  them  by  the 
vote  of  the  house  of  Israel. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
weak  on  this  occasion,  and  I  do  not 
know  how  to  express  myself.  But  I 
accept  of  the  call  with  the  same  feel- 
ing that  I  have  always  accepted  of  the 
calls  made  of  me  by  the  authorities  of 
this  Church.  I  am  in  full  sympathy 
with  the  organization  of  i  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  and  every  sentiment  which 
has  been  expressed  at  this  Conference 
finds  a  cheerful  and  a  complete 
response  in  my  heart.    I  am  grateful 


to  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  which 
He  has  given  unto  me  in  my  youth 
concerning  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  work 
which  he  was  instrumental  in  the 
hands  of  God  in  establishing  upon  the 
earth.  I  know  that  it  is  true.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  witness,  and  I  trust 
that  I  shall  be  able,  by  the  help  of  the 
Lord  and  hy  your  faith  and  prayers, 
my  brethren  and  sisters — for  I  ask 
them,  and  I  need  them,  to  be  able  to 
show  my  appreciation  of  the  truth 
and  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged, by  my  course  in  life.  I  recog- 
nize the  fact  that  there  is  no  amount 
of  profession  or  pretension  which  sat- 
isfies the  injunctions  of  the  Gospel 
and  that  which  goes  to  constitute  the 
characteristics  of  a  true  Latter-day 
Saint.  It  requires  that  we  shall  square 
our  lives  by  the  precepts  of  the  Gospel 
and  the  commandments  which  have 
been  delivered  unto  us  by  the  au- 
thority of  God  in  this  dispensation. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  need  to  occupy 
more  of  your  time,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  feel  weak  and  humble;  in- 
deed, I  feel  unworthy;  for  I  know  my- 
self better  than  my  friends  know  me, 
and  I  cannot  express  my  feelings  on 
this  occasion.  But  I  will  endeavor  to 
do  my  duty,  by  the  help  of  the  Lord. 
I  will  endeavor  to  keep  the  counsel  of 
the  servants  of  God,  and  to  obey  the 
requirements  that  are  made  of  me 
from  time  to  time,  by  the  servants  of 
God  that  are  appointed  to  preside  in 
the  Church  of  Christ  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. I  know  that  these  men  are 
Prophets  of  the  living  God.  And  I 
know  this  day  that  a  prophecy  has 
been  fulfilled  which  was  uttered  by 
Apostle  John  "W.  Taylor  many  years 
ago. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  all  Israel,  and  enable  us  to 
accept,  not  only  in  sentiment  and 
theory,  but  in  actual  practice,  all  the 
counsel  that  is  given  unto  us  bearing 
upon  the  duties  which  the  Gospel  en- 
joins upon  the  Latter-day  Saints;  and 
if  we  do  this  I  know  that  God  will 
bless  us  and  sustain  us  as  his  people, 
and  no  power  will  prevail  against  this 
work.  May  God  bless  you,  and  may  I 
have  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my 
calling.  I  humbly  ask  it,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 


45 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  OWEN  WOOD- 
RUFF. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
weak  in  attempting  to  express  myself 
on  this  occasion,  and  I  pray  that  the 
blessings  of  God  may  rest  upon  me, 
that  I  may  enjoy  your  sympathy,  while 
I  seek  to  do  so.  Though  I  have  not 
placed  myself  in  this  position,  I  have 
no  doubt  as  to  the  inspiration  of  those 
men  who  have  called  me;  and  in  occu- 
pying it  I  realize  that  I  am  not  called 
to  a  position  above  the  people,  but  to 
be  one  of  them  and  a  servant  of  the 
people  of  God.  I  feel  that  this  is  my 
mission.  As  Brother  Cowley  says  that 
this  day  a  prophecy  was  fulfilled 
which  was  uttered  some  years  ago  by 
one  of  the  Apostles  present  today,  I 
can  indeed  say  the  same  as  being  ful- 
filled in  my  case.  My  father  intimated 
as  much  to  me  something  over  three 
years  ago,  while  I  was  upon  a  mission 
to  Switzerland,  Germany  and  Austria, 
although  I  have  never  mentioned  this 
matter  to  a  living  soul.  He  told  me 
that  that  was  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  concerning  me  at  that  time.  T 
have  sought  to  overcome  my  weak- 
nesses; and  in  standing  before  you  I 
realize  that  I  stand  before  my  God, 
stripped  of  everything  which  will  hide 
any  of  the  deeds  of  my  life,  and  real- 
ize that  I  appear  in  His  eyes  in  a 
different  light  to  what  I  appear  in 
your  eyes.  I  realize  that  I  have  had 
weaknesses,  but  God  knows  that  I 
have  sought  with  all  my  heart  to 
overcome  them  and  to  fit  and  prepare 
myself  for  any  call  which  He  might 
make  of  me.  It  will  be  the  pleasure  of 
my  life,  and  my  greatest  object  and 
desire,  to  be  your  servant,  and  to  as- 
sist in  building  up  Zion.  I  believe 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  there 
is  a  living  God.  I  have  been  placed  in 
circumstances  in  my  short  life  where 
I  have  had  to  prove  this  to  be  the 
case  or  to  prove  that  belief  in  God  was 
a  deception.  I  also  believe  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  true,  inspired  servant  or 
the  living  God,  and  that  the  princi- 
ples which  were  revealed  through  him, 
of  faith  in  God,  of  repentance,  of  bap- 
tism, of  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the 
other  principles  connected  with  this 
Gospel,  are  of  God  and  are  necessary 
to  salvation.    I  believe  that  the  organ- 


ization that  existed  in  the  primitive 
church  exists  in  this  Church  today; 
that  we  have  the  living  oracles  of  God, 
and  that  these  men  who  have  been 
called  to  these  positions  are  inspired 
servants  of  God.  My  Father  in 
Heaven  is  a  witness  that  I  have  never 
sought  or  desired  any  prominence  in 
this  world,  but  have  rather  desired  to 
lead  a  quiet  life,  thinking  myself  not 
worthy  to  be  anything  but  the  least 
in  the  kingdom  of  God.  And  I  know 
not  why  I  should  have  been  called  to 
this  position,  were  it  not  that  I  am 
the  least,  or  have  cause  to  be  the  most 
humble  among  you  all. 

May  God  help  me,  and  give  me 
strength  to  do  what  is  right  and  to 
discharge  my  duties,  and  be  true  to 
the  confidence  which  my  brethren  have 
placed  in  me,  and  which  you  place  in 
me  upon  this  occasion.  This  is  my 
greatest  desire,  and  that  I  may  be 
true  and  faithful,  and  useful  in  doing 
good,  proclaiming  the  word  of  God, 
sustaining  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  and  in  looking  out  for  your 
general  welfare.  May  God  give  me 
this  power;  and  if  so,  I  will  covenant 
—if  He  will  give  me  strength,  to  over- 
come my  weaknesses  and  to  resist  the 
evil  of  this  world.  I  do  covenant  with 
you,  as  I  have  done  with  my  God  and 
do  now  with  my  God,  that  I  will  seek 
with  all  the  power  which  He  will  give 
me  and  which  He  has  given  me,  to  be 
a  faithful  servant  unto  you,  and  to 
dedicate  my  life  and  all  the  energies 
which  God  has  given  me  to  the  build- 
ing up  of  His  kingdom  and  to  the  pro- 
claiming of  His  word.  May  God  help 
me  to  this  end,  and  help  us  all  to  ful- 
fill our  duties,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PREST.  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 

Some  experiences  connected  with  the  Ministry— 
His  call  to  the  Apostleship— The  Saints  to  be 
Afflicted  if  they  do  not  Labor  for  Zion— Redemp- 
tion of  the  Dead 

I  feel  thankful  to  God  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  I  have  lived  to  see  the 
day  when  I  have  one  of  my  own  pos- 
terity called  to  this  office— a  privilege 
which  all  my  predecessors,  presidents 
and  counselors,  who  are  in  the  spirit 
world,  have  had.  Their  sons  are  sit- 
ting before  me  here.  I  need  not  men- 
tion them;  you  know  them  yourselves. 


46 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


I  have  had  this  desire  in  my  heart, 
and  the  Lord  has  granted  it  unto  me, 
and  I  am  very  thankful  for  it.  I  am 
satisfied  that  these  two  young  men  we 
have  called  will  magnify  their  calling. 
I  am  satisfied  that  it  is  in  their  hearts 
to  do  it. 

I  want  to  remark  here  the  difference 
— I  was  thinking  of  it  while  the  breth- 
ren  were  talking — between   the  posi- 
tion of  my  son  and  our  brother  here 
and  my  positon  when  I  was  called  to 
the  Apostleship.    While  in  the  worst 
apostasy  we  ever  had  in  this  Church, 
when  Apostles  and  leading  men  were 
fighting  the  Prophet  of  God,  the  Lord 
told  me  to  rise  up,  choose  a  companion, 
and  go  to  Fox  Islands.    A  great  deal 
that  I  have  done,  and  in  my  missions, 
I  have  been  led  by  inspiration  of  Al- 
mighty God  to  do.    I  knew  no  more 
what    was    on    Fox    Islands  than  I 
knew    what    was  on  Kolob.    I  chose 
Brother  Jonathan  H.  Hale  as  a  part- 
ner.   We  went  through  Canada,  and 
there  met  John  E.  Page,  who  was  la- 
boring there.    We  administered  to  one 
woman    that    was    possessed  of  the 
devil,  which  was  cast  out.    We  healed 
the    sick,  and    the    blessings  of  God 
were  with  us.     We    crossed  on  Lake 
Ontario,  and  from  there  down  to  Al- 
bany,   and    Farmington,    my  native 
place.    I  there  met  my  father  and  my 
mother.    It  was  the  first  time  I  had 
seen  them  since  I  had  been  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.    I  held  a  meeting  among 
them.    I  baptized  my  father,  my  step- 
mother, my  sister,  several  uncles  and 
aunts,  and  organized  a  small  branch 
of  the   Church,   composed   of  all  my 
relatives    except      one — a  Methodist 
preacher,  who    was    boarding  at  my 
father's  house.    Old  father  Smith  told 
me,  when  he  blessed  me,  that  I  should 
bring  all  my  father's  house  into  the 
Church.    I  certainly  baptized  every- 
body   that    was  in  the  house  at  the 
time  I  was  there.    I  then  went  on  my 
way  to  Fox  Islands.    When  I  got  there 
I  found  two  congregations — a  Baptist 
minister,  a  meeting  house,  a  Baptist 
congregation,  on  the  north  island;  a 
Methodist  minister,  a  Methodist  con- 
gregation, without  any  meeting  house, 
on    the    south  island.    I  commenced 
preaching    there,  and  very  soon  saw 
why    the    Lord    had  sent  me  there. 
There  was  a  people  there  wishing  for 


the  ancient  order  of  things.  I  bap- 
tized most  of  those  congregations. 
Without  dwelling  upon  it,  I  will  say  I 
baptized  over  100  while  there. 

While  in  the  ministry  there  I  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet  of  God,  in  which  he  told  me 
that  the  Lord  had  given  him  a  revela- 
tion, and  named  to  me  the  persons 
that  were  called  to  fill  the  places  of 
those  who  had  fallen.  My  name  was 
among  them.  He  said  that  he  wanted 
me  to  gather  up  the  Saints  I  had  bap- 
tized and  bring  them  to  Zion.  What 
were  the  circumstances?  I  was  on  an 
island  of  the  sea.  There  was  not  a 
horse  or  an  ox  on  the  island.  There 
was  not  a  man  or  a  woman  that  knew 
how  to  harness  a  horse.  I  told  one  of 
the  brethren,  who  had  some  money, 
that  we  must  furnish  a  train  of 
horses,  wagons,  harness,  etc.,  and  he 
proposed  to  advance  the  money  for 
that  purpose.  He  went  with  me  ana 
we  bought  about  fifty  horses;  anu 
then  I  had  to  match  these  horses,  and 
get  harness  to  fit  them.  I  went  to  a 
wagon-maker  and  engaged  twenty  or 
twenty-five  wagons.  I  did  this  in 
order  to  prepare  the  people  to  go  with 
me,  according  to  the  words  of  the 
Prophet.  I  arranged  everything,  agreed 
with  this  brother  to  furnish  the  money, 
and  left  in  advance  with  the  under- 
standing that  they  were  to  leave  the 
first  day  of  September.  The  letter  to 
me  was  dated  the  first  of  August.  I 
went  to  Maine,  as  my  wife  was  there 
with  her  first  child.  I  waited  for  this 
company  to  come  to  me,  but  they  did 
not  come  till  the  first  of  October.  We 
had  then  to  travel  from  Maine  to  Mis- 
souri through  snow,  rain,  and  mud. 
However,  we  passed  through  it  all, 
and  got  up  there,  according  to  the  com- 
mandment of  the  Lord  to  me. 

That  was  the  way  I  was  called  to 
the  Apostleship,  and  what  I  had  to  go 
through.  I  have  felt  from  that  day  to 
this  that  it  has  been  good  to  serve  the 
Lord,  good  to  honor  God  and  to  obey 
His  commandments.  No  matter  what 
we  may  be  called  to  do,  or  what  office 
we  may  be  called  to  fill,  if  we  trust  in 
God  and  do  our  duty,  we  will  be  car- 
ried through.  Of  course,  I  am  here 
among  you  now.  But  I  have  been  on 
the  sick  list  a  good  while.  Still  the 
Lord  has  blessed  me,  and  I  have  got 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 


47 


back  to  my  former  state,  in  a  measure, 
of  health  and  strength.  How  long-  the 
Lord  will  permit  me  to  live  I  do  not 
know  anything  about;  but  I  have  to 
acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in 
all  these  affairs  with  myself.  I  have 
been  edified  at  the  teachings  that  have 
been  given  us  at  this  Conference. 
What  President  Smith  has  said,  what 
President  Cannon  has  said,  is  true. 
They  have  spoken  upon  principles 
that  we  should  lay  to  heart. 

I  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
God  of  heaven  has  set  His  hand  to 
build  up  Zion,  in  fulfillment  of  all  the 
revelations  of  God  to  man  from  the 
days  of  Father  Adam  down  to  this 
day.  The  counsels  that  have  been 
given  here  today  are  just  and  true, 
and  we  ought  to  observe  them.  I  can- 
not sin,  you  cannot  sin,  we  cannot 
turn  from  the  commandments  of  God 
in  anywise,  but  we  are  the  losers  by 
it.  Again,  I  will  say  to  this  congrega- 
tion, God  Almighty  will  afflict  these 
Latter-day  Saints  if  they  do  not  pm- 
sue  the  course  they  are  called  upon  to 
pursue.  The  Lord  will  build  up  Zion 
and  carry  out  His  purposes;  but  we 
will  be  chastised  unless  we  listen  to 
the  counsels  of  the  servants  of  God. 
If  these  Latter-day  Saints  turn  to  the 
right  or  the  left,  on  political  questions 
or  on  other  principles,  to  separate 
themselves  one  from  another  and  from 
the  commandments  of  God,  the  Lord 
Almighty  will  hold  them  responsible, 
and  they  will  be  chastised  for  doing  it. 
I  know  this  as  well  as  I  know  I  am 
alive.  I  am  anxious  for  the  salvation 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  do  not 
know  anything  about  what  you  are  on 
politics,  but  we  should  be  united  to- 
gether and  labor  together  to  build  up 
Zion.  We  have  been  called  from  the 
nations  of  the  earth  to  do  that;  and 
if  we  do  not  do  it,  the  judgments  of 
Almighty  God  will  rest  upon  us.  I 
feel  myself  that  the  time  has  come 
when  we  ought  to  look  around  and 
about  ourselves,  and  see  what  we  are 
doing  and  what  we  should  do.  My 
prayer  to  God  is  that  we  may  open  our 
eyes  to  see,  our  ears  to  hear,  our 
hearts  to  understand  the  word  of  the 
Lord  and  the  responsibilities  we  are 
under.  We  stand  here,  a  little  handful 
of  men  and  women  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world,  but  we  are  called  to  build  up 

Zion. 


Here  we  have  four  Temples,  thank 
the  Lord  our  God!  Into  those  Temples 
we  enter  and  redeem  our  dead.  We 
have  blessings  which  have  never  been 
given  to  any  other  generation  since 
the  days  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Apos- 
tles. The  Lord  has  raised  up  a  people 
for  this  purpose.  You  hold  the  keys  of 
the  destiny  of  your  fathers,  your 
mothers,  your  progenitors,  from  gen- 
eration to  generation;  you  hold  the 
keys  of  their  salvation.  God  has  put 
that  power  into  your  hands.  But  if  we 
do  not  do  what  is  required  of  us  in 
this  thing,  we  are  under  condemnation. 
If  we  do  attend  to  this,  then  when 
we  come  to  meet  our  friends  in  the 
celestial  kingdom,  they  will  say,  "You 
have  been  our  saviors,  because  you 
had  power  to  do  it.  You  have  attend- 
ed to  these  ordinances  that  God  has 
required." 

I  will  say  to  this  congregation  that 
the  very  men  whom  God  raised  up  to 
lay  the  foundation  of  the  American 
government — those  noble  men,  from 
Washington  down — have  been  to  men 
in  these  Temples  and  required  the  or- 
dinances of  the  House  of  God  at  their 
hands  in  their  behalf.  They  have  told 
them  the  position  they  occupied  in  the 
spirit  world,  and  those  men  have  gone 
forth  and  fulfilled  these  requests,  and 
those  noble  men  have  received  the 
ordinances  of  the  House  of  God.  A 
great  many  things  have  been  required 
of  us  as  a  people,  and  as  far  as  we 
have  fulfilled  them,  so  far  we  are  justi- 
fied. But  do  not  let  us  lose  the  hold 
we  have  got.  Do  not  let  us  turn  our 
backs  upon  the  commandments  of 
God,  and  do  those  things  that  will 
place  us  in  difficulties  in  days  to  come. 

The  eyes  of  the  heavens  are  over  us; 
the  eyes  of  God  himself,  the  eyes  of 
every  Prophet  and  Apostle  in  the 
spirit  world,  are  watching  you,  watch- 
ing this  Priesthood,  to  see  what  they 
are  doing  and  what  they  are  going  to 
do.  It  is  of  far  more  importance  than 
we  realize  and  comprehend.  Let  us 
awake  to  the  ordinances  of  the  House 
of  God  and  do  our  duty,  that  we  may 
be  justified,  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"We    thank      Thee,  O   God,    for  a 
Prophet." 
Benediction    by    Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THIRD  DAY. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn: 

"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam, 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 

each  nation, 
And    shortly    the  hour  of  redemption 

will  come." 
Prayer  by  Elder  James  H.  Hart. 

"We're  not  ashamed  to  own  our  Lord, 
And  worship  Him  on  earth," 

was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  C.  D.  FJELSTED. 

The  Lord  has  led  His  people— Christ's  promise  has 
been  fulfilled. 

I  do  not  know  if  I  shall  be  able  to 
speak  loud  enough  for  such  a  large 
congregation.  My  voice  is  not  very 
strong.but  I  feel  thankful  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father  that  we  have  this  great 
opportunity  of  meeting  together  in  a 
Conference,  to  have  the  privilege  to 
sit  and  listen  to  inspired  men  that  are 
full  of  wisdom  and  good  counsel  to 
us.  We  can  certainly  say  we  have  had 
quite  a  feast  during  this  Conference, 
and  I  for  my  part  feel  to  thank  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  have  a 
living  Priesthood  amongst  us,  to  direct 
and  to  guide  us  and  to  bless  us;  and 
there  are  no  people  that  I  know  of 
on  the  whole  earth  that  ought  to  be 
as  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  His  blessings  as  we  ought  to  be. 
The  doctrines  that  we  have  listened  to 
are  of  an  excellent  character,  and  we 
know  they  are  from  God,  and  I  wish 
that  we  all  carried  them  out  that  it 
might  please  the  Lord  to  bless  us  still 
more.  His  hand  has  been  over  this 
people.  He  has  led  us  unto  this  day, 
and  we  have  confidence  that  He  will 
continue  to  lead  this  people  and  that 
we  will  be  able  to  help  to  build  up 
the  work  of  God.  We  can  say  surely 
the  testimony  that  was  promised  to 
us  and  to  everybody  by  the  Savior 
when  He  was  here  has  been 
realized.  He  said  anyone  and 
everyone  that  will  do  the  will 
of  my  Father  shall  know  if 
this  is  the  work  of  God  or  not.  We 


can  testify  by  receiving  this  Gospel 
that  we  have  received  that  testimony, 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God  and  not 
of  man,  and  therefore  I  say  we  ought 
to  be  the  best  people  on  the  whole 
earth;  that  we  are  called  upon  to  be 
Saints;  and  that  the  Lord  has  given 
us  the  testimony  that  this  is  His  work; 
and  I  say,  Lord  bless  all  Thy  servants, 
Lord  bless  all  who  take  an  active  part 
in  building  up  the  work  of  God,  that 
they  may  be  prospered  in  the  land,  and 
that  the  plans  of  the  Wicked  One  to 
overthrow  this  work  may  fall  to  the 
ground,  and  that  the  kingdom  of  God 
may  be  built  up  and  that  His  blessings 
may  follow  the  people.  This  is  my 
prayer  and  desire  in  the  name  of  Je- 
sus. Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

Endorsement  of  the  Conference   proceedings — 
Testimony  of  the  Truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been 
exceedingly  happy  during  this  Confer- 
ence, and,  with  you,  have  enjoyed  the 
blessings  thereof,  and  my  heart  is 
filled  with  gratitude  for  this  great 
privilege  of  being  numbered  with  the 
Church  of  Christ,  with  having  a  name 
and  a  standing  in  the  Church.  I  have 
rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the  outpourings 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon  His  ser- 
vants, and  their  words  and  utteran- 
ces and  their  actions  have  had  a 
response  in  my  heart,  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  has  testified  to  my  spirit  that 
all  that  hath  been  done  is  of  the  Lord, 
and  with  my  whole  soul  I  accept  the 
counsels  and  instructions  that  have 
been  imparted  to  us. 

I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  not 
only  to  those  truths  that  we  have  re- 
ceived during  this  Conference,  but  to 
the  truth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I 
rejoice  that  through  His  grace  the 
truth  of  this  work  hath  been  made 
known  unto  me.  I  have  said  to  some 
of  my  intimate  friends  that  I  think  it 
is  a  good  thing  that  the  Lord  has  made 
it  known  to  me,  for  if  He  had  not  made 
it  known  beyond  all  doubt,  it  is  very 
questionable  with  me  if  I  could  believe 
it.    But  I  have  received  that  testimony 


ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 


49 


and  am  pleased  with  the  opportunity 
of  saying-  so  once  more  to  you,  and  I 
desire  to  live  in  harmony  with  it,  and 
be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I 
know  of  no  greater  reward  to  strive 
for  than  this,  and  with  all  my  soul,  I 
desire  to  overcome  the  weaknesses 
and  imperfections  of  humanity  and  at 
the  last  be  received  into  the  king- 
dom of  our  God.  I  hope  that  I  may  have 
strength  to  do  so,  and  that  the  same 
strength  may  be  given  to  the  Saints  of 
God  and  that  the  kingdom  of  God  may 
come  on  the  earth  and  His  will  be 
done  here  as  it  is  done  in  heaven;  all 
of  which  I  pray  for  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

The  wonders  wrought  by  the  Saints  through  the 
power  of  God— Completeness  of  the  keys  and 
authority  of  the  Priesthood. 

It  affords  me    great    pleasure  this 
morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  present  with  you  in  this  vast  con- 
gregation,  to  worship  the  Lord  our 
God,  to  learn  of  His  ways  that  we 
may  walk  in  His  paths;    and  it  gives  me 
still  greater,  consolation  to  know  that 
His  people  are  still  led  by  the  Spirit 
of  divine  revelation, that  notwithstand- 
ing our  weaknesses,  our  shortcomings, 
our  lack  of  faith,  God  is  still  with  us. 
He  is  still  guiding  His  people,  and  with 
me  there  is  not  the  slightest  shadow 
of  a  doubt  but  what  all  His  holy  pur- 
poses will  be  accomplished.      I  know 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  I  know 
that  He  is  guiding  His  people.  Of 
this  I  am  more  satisfied  than  of  any 
other  fact  with  which  I  am  acquainted. 
I  have  no  fears  on  this  point,  for  the 
Holy  Spirit  has  witnessed  from  the 
beginning,  that  God  is  with  us,  that 
this  is  not  the  work  of  man.     Had  it 
not  been  so,  it  would  have  failed  long 
ago.     It  would  never  have  brought  to 
pass  the  wonderful,  the  miraculous  re- 
sults, I  might  say,  that  we  see  have 
been  accomplished  by  the  revelation  of 
God  to  Joseph  Smith  and  to  His  people. 
No  earthly  power  could  have  accom- 
plished what  has  been  done  by  the 
people  who  belong  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.      The  results  are  mar- 
velous, not  only  in  the  building  up  of 
this  commonwealth  in  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains,  not  only  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  Gospel  to  so  many  of  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  but  also  in  the 


indirect  results  that  have  followed  the 
ministry  of  the  servants  of  God,  the 
results  that  have  followed  materially, 
spiritually,  intellectually,  and  in  every 
way  that  I  can  think  of. 

Our  influence  in  the  history  of  the 
world  in  this  century  is  marked,  and 
will  be  still  more  marked  as  the  cen- 
turies roll  round;  and  from  a  distance 
men  will  be  able  to  perceive  what  has 
been  really  accomplished  by  those  who 
for  so  long  were  despised,  of  whom  so 
little  was  thought,  and  to  whose  mes- 
sage such  a  deaf  ear  was  turned  by 
the  greater  portion  of  the  peoples  of 
the  world.      And  I  can  say,  while  I 
feel  my  littleness,  while  I  acknowledge 
my  insufficiency,  yet  I  do  greatly  re- 
joice that    God    has    accounted  me 
worthy  to  be  one  of  His  people,  to 
be  one  of  the  workers  with  Him  in  the 
great  work    of    the    regeneration  of 
the  world,   in  the  fulfillment  of  His 
purposes,  and  in  the  bringing  about  of 
that  reign  of  righteousness  upon  the 
earth,  when  all  shall  know  Him,  and 
when  every  man  in  every  place  shall 
meet  a  brother  and  a  friend;  for  I  de- 
sire   to    see     righteousness  brought 
about,  I  desire  to  see  peace  established 
upon  the  earth,  I  desire  to  see  love 
abound  amongst  all    the    sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam.    I  have  no  pleas- 
ure in  iniquity,  no  pleasure  in  turmoil, 
in  rioting;  no  pleasure   in  contention; 
but  I  desire  to  live  to  see  the  name  of 
God  glorified,  to  see  the  principles  of 
eternal  truth  vindicated,  to  see  Israel 
become  God's  first  born  upon  the  earth, 
and  occupy  the  positon     God  has  in- 
tended for  His  people;   and  I  desire 
to  see  this  earth  prepared  for  the  com- 
ing and  reign  of  the  Prince  of  Peace, 
of  Jesus,  our    Redeemer,  the  Son  of 
God. 

And  these  things  I  know  will  be 
brought  about,  will  be  accomplished 
by  the  labors  and  ministry  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God,  under  the  direction  of 
those  who  hold  the  keys  of  power  in 
the  midst  of  His  people,  to  whom  He 
reveals  His  mind  and  will.  And  I  am 
doubly  thankful  to  know  that  there 
is  not  one  key  of  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
not  one  power  belonging  to  God's 
kingdom,  not  one  key  of  authority,  not 
one  principle  pertaining  to  the  building 
up  of  righteousness  upon  the  earth, 
that  God  has  withheld  from  His 
people,  in  these  the  latter  days  .  I 


5o 


GENERAL  CONFEREJSi  CE. 


realize  that  all  these  things  have  been 
given  unto  us.  There  is  nothing  lack- 
ing, but  all  that  is  necessary,  if  we  will 
obey,  to  give  us  power  to  return  into 
the  presence  of  God,  and  to  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  the  celestial  kingdom 
throughout  the  eternities  to  come,  are 
ours,  are  with  this  Church,  have  been 
revealed  of  God.  We  have  been  made 
partakers  of  all  these  things.  There 
is  nothing  wanting.  Not  one  link  is 
left  out.  They  are  all  ours  if  we  will 
be  faithful  to  God  and  to  His  cause; 
and  this  is  my  testimony,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  I  know  it  is  true,  and  I 
bear  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus, 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL 

Labors  in  the  SoutL— The  Mutual  Improvement 
cause— Necessity  of  study  and  reflection— The 
great  sin  of  uDchastity. 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  have  discovered  in  my  short 
career  that  I  don't  amount  to  very 
much;  that  all  that  I  have  tried  to 
do  within  myself  I  have  failed  in.  The 
only  blessing  of  real  comfort  that  I 
have  received  is  in  laboring  in  the 
ministry.  Some  men  are  more  easily 
tired  than  others,  and  as  far  as 
I  am  concerned.  I  desire  to  be 
free  in  what  I  say,  and  I  hope 
that  I  may  be  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost,  for  I  can  testify  to  the 
children  of  men  that  I  know  what  the 
Holy  Ghost  is,  that  is,  I  know  what  its 
influence  is.  I  know  that  I  have  felt 
that  joy,  that  peace,  that  satisfaction, 
that  burning  within  me  that  comes 
from  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord. 

I  have  labored  for  the  past  six 
weeks  in  company  with  Apostle  Ly- 
man through  the  southern  part  of  the 
State,  largely  in  the  interests  of  the 
Young  "  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association,  and  I  discover  in  associat- 
ing among  the  people  that  there  is  a 
great  missionary  work  to  be  performed 
here  at  home.  There  are  something 
over  twenty-five  thousand  young  men, 
from  fourteen  up  to  my  age,  and  only 
a  very  small  percentage  of  that  num- 
ber are  laboring  earnestly  and  ar- 
dently to  gain  information  and  knowl- 
,  edge  pertaining  to  this  great  work. 
Talk  about  your  missionary  fields  of 


labor,  talk  about  the  nations  of  the 
earth;  I  comprehend  that  the  angel 
came  with  its  message  that  the  Gos- 
pel might  be  preached  to  every  nation, 
to  every  kindred,  to  every  tongue  and 
people;  but  I  want  to  testify  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  ris- 
ing generation  at  home  are  being 
neglected.  They  are  not  being  reached 
by  the  Priesthood  of  God;  and  if  there 
is  any  place  on  the  great  earth  where 
there  needs  an  awakening  and  an  up- 
lifting, it  is  right  here  in  Zion,  and,  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  the  fathers  and 
the  mothers  are  helpless,  and  they 
know  not  what  to  do.  I  know  the 
cause,  too,  and  the  sin  will  rest  upon 
the  parents.  They  have  not  followed 
this  counsel,  to  instruct  their  children 
when  they  are  young.  President 
George  Q.  Cannon  said  we  were  in 
bondage,  to  a  certain  extent,  because 
we  had  not  followed  counsel,  and  I 
want  to  testify  that  it  is  true,  and  I 
want  to  say  that  there  is  a  great  sin 
resting  upon  some  of  the  fathers  and 
mothers,  because  they  have  not 
taught  their  children  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism,  and  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  when  they  were  eight 
years  old,  and  they  are  now  reaping 
the  sorrow  of  their  neglect.  We  neea 
missionaries.  I  take  the  position  that 
we  need  one  hundred  to  start  out  with, 
to  commence  this  mission  here  at 
home;  and  I  don't  know,  before  they 
get  through  with  it,  but  they  will 
have  to  preach  on  the  street  corners 
like  the  Elders  do  in  the  states  and 
in  Europe. 

A  part  of  our  labors  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  State  were  in  the  interest 
of  a  new  magazine;  for  the  general 
board  of  the  Young  Men's  Associations 
have  discovered  that  it  is  absolutely 
impossible  to  reach  the  four  hundred 
and  ninety-one  associations  in  the 
Church  without  a  magazine.  But  in 
that  number  of  associations,  we  have 
16,580  young  men  that  are  enrolled, 
with  an  attendance,  perhaps,  of  eight 
thousand.  There  is  something  like  ten 
thousand  that  are  not  enrolled,  and 
this  missionary  work  must  be  begun. 

In  our  associating  among  the  peo- 
ple, we  discovered,  and  I  want  to  testi- 
fy to  what  one  of  the  brethren  spoke 
in  reference  to  that  matter,  that 
our   people    are    not   a   reading  peo- 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


51 


pie,  they  do  not  diligently  read  the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  I  was  so  sur- 
prised that  I  have  not  language  to  ex- 
press it,  when  we  discovered  how  few 
of  our  people,  with  the  numerous  hosts 
of  children,  there  are  that  are  taking 
the  Juvenile  Instructor.  Why,  we 
found  places  where  a  few  years  ago 
they  took  thirty  or  forty  Juveniles,  in 
some  instances  they  are  only  taking 
three  or  four  now.  If  that  is  not  proof 
enough  that  they  are  not  reading,  why, 
I  don't  know  what  other  proof  you 
want.  We  have,  however  been  sus- 
tained by  the  people  of  the  south,  and 
in  the  Stakes  of  St.  George,  and  Kan- 
ab,  and  Panguitch,  and  Parowan  we 
have  met  with  a  very  kindly  reception; 
and  I  believe  there  has  been  a  re- 
awakening. 

But  I  want  to  say  to  the  people, 
if  you  will  permit  me,  something  I 
have  on  my  mind  here.  I  would  like 
to  read  to  you  a  little  from  the  Doc- 
trine, and  Covenants,  to  show  you  the 
condition  that  we  are  in,  some  of 
us.  It  is  a  revelation  given  to 
Oliver  Cowdery.  It  seems  that  he  had 
the  gift  of  translation,  and  he  was 
somewhat  impatient;  and  the  Lord 
spoke  to  him  in  this  manner —  and  I 
want  to  apply  this  to  the  rising  gen- 
eration, I  want  to  apply  it  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  from  the  age  of  four- 
teen to  ninety — we  expect  all  of  them 
to  join  the  Young  Men's  Association 
between  those  ages,  and  as  Apostle 
Lyman  said,  there  is  not  anybody 
permitted  to  join  the  association  who 
is  older  than  President  Woodruff. 
We  believe  that  men  who  are  aged 
should  study  just  as  much  as  young 
men.  I  want  to  ask  the  Latter-day 
Saints  if  that  is  a  true  doctrine,  that 
when  a  man  gets  old  he  should  quit 
learning  and  stop  studying,  and  cease 
to  progress.  I  want  to  read  you  what 
the  Lord  has  said  in  this  line,  speaking 
to  Oliver  Cowdery:  "Behold,  you  have 
not  understood.  You  have  supposed 
that  I  would  give  it  unto  you  when 
you  took  no  thought  save  it  was  to 
ask."  Have  you  misunderstood,  my 
brethren  and  sisters?  Have  you  fan- 
cied that  all  you  have  to  do  is  to  ask 
and  you  shall  receive,  knock  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you,  and  if  you 
lack  wisdom,  ask  of  God  who  giveth 


to  all  men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not, 
and  that  you  can  sit  down  and  make 
no  other  effort?  As  one  of  the  breth- 
ren expressed  it:  "I  fancy  that  the 
minds  of  some  of  us  are  chloroformed," 
and  we  have  imagined  that  we  would 
be  saved  in  our  ignorance,  when  the 
Lord  has  said,  "Whatever  intelligence 
you  attain  unto  in  this  life  will  rise 
with  you  in  the  resurrection."  Now 
He  taught  this  lesson  to  Oliver  Cow- 
dery: "But,  behold  I  say  unto  you, 
that  you  must  study  it  out  in  your 
mind.  Then  you  must  ask  me  if  it 
be  right;  and  if  it  is  right,  I  will  cause 
that  your  bosom  shall  burn  within 
you;  therefore  you  shall  feel  that  it 
is  right."  Now  these  are  the  last  days-, 
spoken  of  by  the  prophets;  these  are 
the  "perilous  times."  And  I  want  to* 
say  to  you  that  mountains  of  obstruc- 
tions will  be  placed  before  this  people,, 
and  if  you  have  not  been  tried,  you: 
will  be;  if  you  have  not  been  tested,, 
you  will  be,  before  you  gain  eternal 
life.  And  before  we  pass  our  opinion 
unwisely,  as  we  do,  it  is  well  for  us 
to  "study  it  out  in  our  minds." 

I  am  fearful  that  some  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  simply  come  to  the  leaders 
and  listen  to  the  servants  of  God,  and 
they  never  study  it  out  in  their  minds; 
they  never  go  to  the  written  word, 
and  compare  it  with  the  servants  of 
God  in  their  doctrines  and  teachings, 
and  consequently  they  are  unable 
to  judge  righteously,  and  they  are 
losing  confidence.  Their  confidence  is 
being  shaken,  and  they  are  unable  to 
judge,  because  they  have  not  first 
studied  it  out  in  their  minds,  because, 
as  a  people,  we  are  mentally  lazy.  I 
will  say  that,  because  I  do  not  expect 
to  preach  here  again  for  a  long  time. 
If  any  of  us  have  got  a  bad  taste  in  our 
mouth  for  anything  that  has  trans- 
pired, why,  let  us  repent,  let  us  study 
it  out  in  our  minds,  and  then  go  to 
our  Father,  in  humility,  and  ask  Him  if 
it  is  right,  and  if  it  is  right  He  will 
cause  a  burning  within  our  bosoms, 
and  we  shall  know  that  it  is  right; 
but  if  it  be  not  right,  we  shall  have 
no  such  feelings,  but  we  shall  have  a 
stupor  of  thought.  And  how  greatly 
blessed  are  we  in  that  direction!  We 
are  all  blessed,  more  or  less,  with  a 
stupor  of  thought. 

But  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  this  peo- 
ple.    Why,  you  are  a  wonderful  peo- 


5? 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


pie.  The  Lord  has  blessed  you  as 
He  has  blessed  no  other  people.  He 
has  given  you  the  Holy  Ghost.  Re- 
member how  particular  He  was  with 
His  Apostles,  with  His  servants  that 
He  sent  out  to  preach  the  Gospel.  He 
promised  them  the  Holy  Ghost,  "whom 
the  world  cannot  receive,"  and  we  are 
in  a  different  situation  to  what  the 
world  is.  As  Paul  says:  'What!- 
know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temples 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  ye  are  not 
your  own;  and  if  any  man  defile  the 
temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy, 
for  the  temple  of  God  is  holy,  which 
temple  ye  are."  Now  I  want  to  say 
to  you  people,  in  soberness,  and  with 
consideration — I  don't  want  to  be  an 
alarmist,  I  don't  want  to  be  a  revival- 
ist; but  I  want  to  say  to  you,  the  great 
sin  that  is  creeping  in  among  this  peo- 
ple, together  with  other  worldly  sins,  is 
the  sin  of  adultery.  This  is  creeping 
in  amongst  us,  and  in  some  instances 
our  dau-hters  are  running  the  streets 
as  common  harlots,  and  we,  seeming- 
ly, cannot  help  ourselves.  But  I  want 
to  say  to  you,  there  needs  be  an  awak- 
ening. I  want  to  tell  you  there  needs 
to  be  a  fear  planted  in  the  hearts  of 
the  youn~  people.  Take  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Go  to  the  316th  page,  and 
read  what  Alma  said  to  his  son  Cori- 
anton,  who  had  left  the  ministry,  and 
had  followed  after  the  harlot  Isabel. 
He  told  him  what  a  terrible  crime 
adultery  was,  that  it  was  next  to  the 
shedding  of  innocent  blood.  O,  I  am 
fearful  that  our  young  people  do  not 
compreherM  that  great  sin  that  is 
creeping  in  amongst  us;  and,  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  said,  a  man  that  com- 
mits adultery  cannot  enter  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God.  If  he  en- 
ters any  kingdom,  it  will  not  be  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God.  I  pray  that 
our  people  may  be  moved  upon  to  be 
a  virtuous,  to  be  an  honest,  to  be  a 
faithful  people;  this  is  the  prayer  of 
my  heart,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY- 

Beneficial  character  of  Mutual  Improvement  as- 
sociations— Operation  of  the  Holy  Spirit — Re- 
ception of  blessings  predicated  upon  Obedience 
— Secular  education  does  not  prevent  crime. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing 
before  you  a  short  time,  I  humbly  so- 
licit your  faith  and  prayers,  that  some- 


thing appropriate  may  be  suggested  to 
our  minds.  I  have  rejoiced,  and  do 
rejoice,  in  the  instructions  of  this  Con- 
ference; and  our  joy  may  be  said  to 
consist,  through  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  the 
propriety  and  the  practical  value  of 
the  teachings  imparted  unto  us 
through  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  been  highly  edified  in  the  re- 
marks directed  to  the  youth.  I  feel 
especially  interested  in  the  cause  of 
Mutual  Improvement,  because  I  recog- 
nize in  it  an  institution  established  by 
the  wisdom  of  the  Lord  through  His 
servant,  President  Young,  affording 
the  young  men  and  young  women  of 
Zion  an  opportunity  to  exercise  the 
talents  with  which  the  Lord  has  en- 
dowed them.  And  it  is  a  work  of  great 
magnitude.  It  is  necessary,  as  stated 
by  President  Cannon  and  Brother 
Kimball,  that  we  should  study  the 
Scriptures  and  become  conversant 
with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  with 
the  predictions  of  the  Prophets, and  the 
purposes  of  theAlmighty  concerning  us 
and  mankind  at  large,  and,  not  only 
in  the  direction  of  these  particulars 
which  are  designated  as  strictly  re- 
ligious, but  to  become  acquainted  with 
all  good  principles.  I  think  it  is  in  sec- 
tion 84  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
where  the  injunction  is  placed  upon  us 
by  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph, and  it  is  always  binding,  that 
we  should  seek  for  wisdom  by  study, 
out  of  the  best  books,  by  prayer  and 
also  by  faith;  that  we  should  become 
acquainted  with  the  laws  of  the  king- 
doms and  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
with  the  law  of  the  kingdom  of  God; 
should  become  acquainted  with  things 
which  are  above  the  earth  and  which 
are  in  the  earth;  we  might  say,  become 
informed  regarding  all  things  as  the 
Lord,  through  various  agencies,  gives 
us  opportunities  for  acquiring  knowl- 
edge. 

What  a  broad  field  of  study  for  the 
youth  of  Zion!  "Would  any  man  with 
intelligence  and  honesty  dare  to  attri- 
bute narrow-mindedness  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints?  I  think  not.  The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  not  afraid  to  come 
in  contact  with  the  world  in  every 
form.  They  are  not  so  narrow  but 
what  they  are  willing  to  receive  truth 
wherever  it  can  be  found.  We  recog- 
nize the  fact  that  there  are  fragments 
of  truth  scattered  abroad  in  the  earth, 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


53 


that  they  have  been  handed  down 
among  the  chldren  of  men  on  the  pages 
of  history  and  by  tradition  from  gene- 
ration to  generation.  Many  of  the 
oriental  religionists  that  are  designat- 
ed by  the  more  enlightened  as  heath- 
en have  ideas  which  are  not  at  vari- 
ance with  some  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  In  reading  the  history  of 
Mexico,  we  find  statements  there  re- 
garding traditions  of  the  ancient  in- 
habitants of  that  land  in  reference  to 
the  Deity  and  in  regard  to  the  coming 
of  a  God  to  this  earth;  and  we  can  see 
that  it  has  reference  to  the  mission 
of  the  Son  of  God  among  the  children 
of  men.  And  so  in  regard  to  the  people 
of  Asia  and  other  countries  of  the 
globe.  The  youth  of  Zion  should  be 
conversant  with  these  things. 

There  is  one  grand  and  glorious  prin- 
ciple, that  should  be  understood  by 
the  young  people  to  guide  them  in 
their  studies  and  investigation  in  re- 
gard to  all  things,  and  that  is,  the 
possession  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  No  man, 
says  the  Apostle  Paul — and  it  has  been 
repeated  in  every  Gospel  dispensation 
— "can  understand  the  things  of  God 
but  by  the  Spirit  of  God."  He  may  un- 
derstand the  things  of  man  by  the 
spirit  of  man;  but  the  Spirit  of 
God  has  a  mission,  as  stated  by  the 
Savior  in  the  16th  chapter  of  St.  John, 
where  he  says,  "Howbeit,  when  the 
spirit  of  truth  is  come,  he  shall  guide 
you  into  all  truth,  for,"  he  says,  "he 
shall  not  speak  of  himself" — here  is 
another  lesson  in  that  passage:  even 
the  Holy  Spirit  does  not  assume  au- 
thority to  speak — "for  he  shall  not 
speak  of  himself,  but  that  which  he 
heareth,  that  shall  he  also  speak.  He 
shall  take  of  the  things  of  the  Father 
and  shall  show  them  unto  you,"  show- 
ing that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  associ- 
ates with  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
and  communicates  the  mind  and  will 
of  the  Lord  to  the  people,  who  are  so 
happy  and  so  blessed  as  to  enjoy  that 
great  gift.  If  we  can  understand  the 
things  of  man  by  the  spirit  of  man, 
we  can  also  understand  the  things  of 
man  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  for  it 
"searcheth  all  things."  How  essential 
it  is  that  the  young  men  and  the  young 
women  of  Zion  should  enjoy  the  com- 
panionship of  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  im- 
portance of  which  cannot  be  spoken, 
it  cannot  be  fully  realized.      And  to 


enjoy  that  spirit,  we  should  understand 
another  principle,  and  that  is  that  to 
possess  it  we  must  harmonize  our  lives, 
our  daily  walk  and  conversation  with 
certain  requirements  that  the  Lord  has 
made  of  us.  It  is  one  thing  to  receive 
the  Holy  Spirit;  it  is  another  thing  to 
keep  it  constantly  with  us.  We  re- 
ceived it  on  condition  of  faith  in  God 
and  in  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
condition  of  repentance  from  all  sin— 
a  genuine  repentance,  a  laying  aside 
of  the  things  which  are  obnoxious  to 
God.  We  received  it  on  condition  of 
accepting  the  simple  ordinance  of 
baptism  in  water  for  the  remission  of 
sin.  We  received  it  on  condition  of 
the  imposition  of  hands  by  men  au- 
thorized of  the  Almighty  to  perform 
that  sacred  ordinance  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  We  never  can  isolate 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  expect 
by  the  mere  outward  acceptance  of 
that  ^  principle,  to  enjoy  the  blessing 
which  is  attached  to  it.  No  man  has 
received  a  remission  of  sins  by  baptism 
alone.  No  man  has  received  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  imposition  of  hands 
alone.  There  must  be  associated  with 
it  the  fulfillment  of  the  conditions  that 
belong  to  these  fundamental  steps 
which  introduce  us  into  the  Church  of 
Christ.  Simon  the  sorcerer  was  bap- 
tized by  Philip.  He  went  through  the 
ordinance  in  form,  but  the  Apostles 
Peter  and  John  came  down  from  Je- 
rusalem and  laid  their  hands  upon  and 
baptized  the  Samaritans;  and  those 
that  were  penitent  only,  who  had  pure 
faith  in  God,  pure  conviction  that  Je- 
sus was  the  Christ,  received  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  enjoyed  some  of  the  gifts 
thereof;  and  when  Simon  the  sorcerer 
saw  that  they  enjoyed  this  gift,  he 
offered  the  apostles  money,  and  he 
said  unto  them,  "Give  unto  me  also 
this  gift  that  on  whomsoever  I  lay  my 
hands  they  may  receive  it  also."  And 
the  Apostle  Peter.by  the  authority  and 
power  of  God  which  rested  upon  him, 
said  unto  him:  "Thy  money  perish 
with  thee,  seeing  thou  hast  thought  to 
buy  the  gift  of  God  with  money.  I 
perceive  that  thy  soul  is  in  the  gall  of 
bitterness  and  sin." 

So  it  may  be  said  of  all  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Men  have  embraced 
the  Gospel,  that  is,  in  form. 
Some  have  been  introduced  into  the 
Church     formally,     but     they  have 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dropped  by  the  wayside.  We  found 
hundreds  of  backsliders  in  the  states 
of  Missouri  and  Illinois,  who  had  em- 
braced the  Gospel,  many  of  them  in 
the  days  of  Joseph  Smith.  Some  had 
received  a  testimony  and  sinned 
against  it  and  became  embittered, while 
others  had  not  received  it  in  sincerity 
of  heart,  and  they  were  easily  led 
aside.  I  want  to  impress  upon  the 
youth  that  to  enjoy  this  Spirit,  we 
must  not  only  receive  it  by  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  Gospel,  but  we  must  take 
a  course  in  life  that  we  can  keep  it 
coristantly  with  us.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  not  associate  with  evil  in  any 
form.  As  quoted  by  Brother  Kim- 
ball, the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  not 
dwell  in  unclean  temples;  and  the 
Apostle  Paul  felt  so  Impressed  with 
this  that  on  one  occasion  he  said  to 
the  Corinthian  Saints:  "Evil  com- 
munications corrupt  good  manners," 
and  he  cautioned  them  to  avoid  evil 
association,  to  avoid  coming  in  contact 
with  the  influences  that  were  of  the 
world.  The  Savior  gave  this  caution 
to  his  disciples,  when  He  said  unto 
them,  "Beware  of  the  leaven  of  the 
Gentiles."  The  young  people  should 
understand  that  the  foundation,  the 
stepping  stone  to  Mutual  Improvement 
is  the  reformation  of  life.  If  there  is 
a  young  man  that  is  guilty  of  any 
habit  that  is  contrary  to  the  injunc- 
tions of  the  Gospel, the  first  step  neces- 
sary is  to  lay  that  aside.  Lay  aside 
the  habit  of  smoking  cigarettes,  lay 
aside  the  habit  of  chewing  tobacco, 
lay  aside  the  habit  of  swearing  and 
profanity,  and  Sabbath  breaking,  and 
seek  unto  God  in  humble  prayer  for 
the  enjoyment  and  the  impressions  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

If  we  will  do  that,  the  Lord  will  pre- 
serve us  from  scepticism  and  infidelity. 
One  of  the  brethren  in  his  remarks 
spoke  about  neglecting  to  read  the 
Scriptures  and  thereby  becoming  an 
easier  prey  to  infidelity.  I  thought  of 
my  own  testimony  regarding  this 
work,  that  no  matter  what  might  be 
the  skill  of  the  sceptic  or  the  infidel 
in  his  efforts  to  tear  down  and  destroy 
the  standards  of  Christianity  that 
every  young  man  might  feel 
as  I  felt  myself,  that  no 
matter  what  may  be  their 
theory,  however   plausible  may  appear 


their  reasoning,  I  know  that  this  is  the 
work  of  God,  regardless  of  these 
things.  I  know  that  there  is  a  spirit 
and  a  power  associated  with  what  they 
denominate  Mormonism  that  is  beyond 
and  above  the  power  and  the  natural 
intelligence  of  man.  I  have  received 
this  testimony.  But,  in  addition  to 
that,  my  young  brethren,  we  should 
become  so  conversant  with  the  prin- 
ciples of  truth,  and  also  with  the  theo- 
ries, if  necessary,  that  are  advanced 
by  the  world  against  the  true  doctrines 
of  Christ,  that  we  may  be  able,  when 
under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
to  refute  them  and  show  their  incon- 
sistency by  the  light  of  truth. 

I  have  often  been  impressed  with  a 
few  statistics  that  were  published  by 
President  John  Morgan,  several  years 
before  his  decease.  He  wrote,  I  think 
to  the  wardens  of  the  penitentiaries  at 
Detroit,  and  Joliet,  111.,  and  Sing  Sing, 
New  York,  and  he  asked  the  question 
of  the  keepers  of  those  government 
houses  of  correction  to  give  him  a  clear 
and  truthful  statement  as  to  what  per- 
centage of  the  convicts  in  their  respec- 
tive prisons  could  read  and  write;  he 
also  wanted  to  know  what  percentage 
of  them  had  an  understanding  of 
grammar  and  rhetoric.  "When  the 
answers  came  back,  if  I  remember  cor- 
rectly, they  showed  that  there  were 
fully  ninety  per  cent  of  all  the  crimi- 
nals in  those  houses  of  correc- 
tion that  could  read  and  write; 
and  there  were  some  —  I  think 
seventy-five  per  cent  of  them 
— that  were  quite  grammatical  in  their 
conversation;  a  still  smaller  per  cent 
that  had  a  very  good  understanding  of 
arithmetic  and  other  branches,  and 
some  of  them  were  highly  educated.  I 
remember  the  statement  by  President 
Morgan  that  there  was  a  greater  per- 
centage of  well  educated  people  in  the 
penitentiary,  compared  with  the  whole 
of  the  inmates,  than  there  was  out- 
side of  the  prisons  as  compared  with 
the  entire  population  of  the  United 
States.  To  me  this  was  a  great  les^- 
son.  It  was  a  lesson  that  impressed 
me  that  the  mere  education  of  the  in- 
tellect is  not  sufficient.  Men  may  un- 
derstand astronomy,  they  may  under- 
stand mathematics,  they  may  be  effi- 
cient in  the  beautiful  art  of  music, they 
may  be  conversant  with  law  and  the 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


55 


science  of  civil  government  as  it  ob- 
tains in  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
at  the  same  time  they  may  be  corrupt, 
they  may  be  dishonest  men,  their  mo- 
tives may  be  impure  in  the  sight  of 
God. 

No  man,  no  matter  what  may  be  his 
natural  attainments,  if  he  does  not  en- 
joy the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  if  his 
life  is  not  circumspect,  squared  by  the 
principles  and  doctrines  .of  the  Son  of 
God,  is  a  well  educated  Latter-day 
Saint,  he  does  not  enjoy  the  true  light, 
he  is  not  a  safe  man  to  follow.  An- 
other striking  thing  in  the  history  of 
this  work  is  that  when  men — no  mat- 
ter how  prominent  they  have  become 
— have  ceased  to  follow  in  the  counsels 
of  the  Prophets  of  God,  or  have  violat- 
ed their  covenants  in  any  respect, 
especially  if  it  has  been  in  a  serious 
manner,  they  have  ceased  to  enjoy  the 
light  that  comes  from  the  Father. 
There  is  one  man  spoken  of  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  in  connection  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  You  know 
that  Nephi  prophesied  that  of  the  seed 
of  Joseph  that  was  sold  into  Egypt  in 
the  last  days, the  Lord  would  raise  up  a 
Prophet  whose  name  should  be  Joseph, 
and  his  father's  name  should  be  Jo- 
seph; and  he  said  that  this  Prophet 
Joseph  in  the  last  days  should  not  be 
mighty  in  speaking,  but  he  should  be 
mighty  in  writing  the  words  of  the 
Lord,  like  unto  Moses.  And  he  says, 
"God  will  raise  up  unto  him  a  mouth- 
piece like  unto  Aaron."  Now  by  read- 
ing the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we 
know  who  that  mouth-piece  was.  We 
know  the  name  of  that  man  that  en- 
joyed so  much  of  the  Spirit,  during  his 
faithfulness,  that  his  tongue  was  elo- 
quent and  powerful;  but  when  he 
ceased  to  follow  the  line  of  his  duty, 
when  he  despised  the  day  of  small 
things,  when  he  became  lifted  up  in 
the  pride  of  his  heart,  became  jealous 
of  his  associate,  the  Prophet,  and  be- 
gan step  by  step  to  turn  aside  from  the 
course  of  rectitude  whch  the  Gospel 
enjoined  upon  him,  that  man  lost  his 
power,  lost  his  influence;  he  lost  his 
tongue  of  eloquence,  and  went  down 
into  oblivion.  I  heard,  many  years 
ago,  President  George  Q.  Cannon  say 
that  when  he  was  a  boy  he  was  present 
in  Nauvoo  when  that  man  stood  up  be- 
fore a  congregation  and  sought  to  lay 


his  claims  before  the  people  to  be  the 
guardian  of  this  Church,  and  I  re- 
member distinctly  that  President  Can- 
non said,  he  spoke  as  he  had  never 
heard  him  speak  before,  that  is,  his 
remarks  were  characterized  by  weak- 
ness, a  lack  of  power  and  a  loss  of 
what  he  had  previously  enjoyed. 

These  are  lessons  that  ought  to  be 
stamped  upon  the  hearts  of  the  young 
men.  Such  way-marks  are  scattered 
along  the  path  of  the  history  of  the 
Church  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  until  the  present  time. 

It  is  a  testimony  of  the  divine  au- 
thenticity of  this  work,  that  no  man 
has  a  monopoly  on  the  mercy  of  God. 
He  may  be  ever  so  great  in  the  eyes  of 
the  people,  he  may  be  ever  so  promi- 
nent in  his  position  in  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, but  he  must  comply  with  the 
conditions,  as  every  man  and  woman 
in  this  Church  must  do,  in  order  to 
retain  the  blessing  and  the  favor  of 
God.  No  man  has  a  monopoly  on  the 
work  of  God.  No  man  can  sin  with 
impunity.  No  man  can  turn  aside 
from  the  path  of  rectitude,  without 
meeting  the  consequences  which  are 
specified  in  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior.  So,  my  young  brethren,  re- 
member this,  that  while  men  may  be- 
come educated  in  the  world,  they  may 
become  powerful  physically,  they  may 
become  powerful  mentally,  but  until 
they  are  educated  spiritually  and  the 
moral  properties  of  their  natures  are 
reached  and  touched  and  cultivated, 
the  soul  is  not  educated,  for  "the  spirit 
and  the  body  is  the  soul  of  man."  It 
is  not  complete  without,  and  God  has 
provided  that  in  this  Church,  and  in 
the  glorious  plan  of  salvation,  the  en- 
tire soul  shall  be  educated  in  the  ways 
of  truth,  and  in  the  knowledge  of 
things  that  are  good  and  elevating  in 
the  sight  of  God.  Remember,  there- 
fore, that  we  should  cultivate  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our  hearts,  and 
keep  it  ever  as  our  constant  guide.  Lay 
aside  everything  that  would  grieve 
that  Spirit,  listen  to  the  counsel  of  the 
servants  of  God,  heed  the  warning 
voice  which  they  have  given  unto  us; 
and  then  I  testify  unto  you,  that  the 
doctrines  of  this  Church  as  stated  by 
the  Lord  to  Joseph,  the  Prophet,  will 
be  distilled  upon  your  minds  as  the 
dews  from  heaven,  and    you    will  be 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


proof  against  scepticism  and  infideli- 
ty; and  the  day  will  come  when  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  shall  grow 
up  without  sin  unto  salvation.  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

ABRAHAM  OWEN  WOODRUFF- 

The  young  who  have  experience  should  take  an 
interest  in  wilful  backsliders — Force  of  example 
— Potency  of  prayer— Truth  in  God. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
I  have  been  highly  edified  this  morn- 
ing and  interested  in  the  remarks  of 
the  brethren,  and  I  trust  that  the 
words  which  I  may  be  led  to  utter  will 
not  detract  any  from  the  interest, 
from  the  good  feeling  and  the  good 
things  which  we  have  already  received. 

I  believe  that  there  are  not  a  great 
many  young  men  who  have  sought 
for  a  testimony  of  Je"sus  Christ  who 
would  not,  if  called  upon,  leave  all 
which  they  have  and  dedicate  their 
time  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  abroad;  but 
how  many  of  us,  after  returning  home 
from  our  missions,  still  take  that 
active  interest  in  the  spreading  of  the 
truth  and  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
that  we  did  in  the  missionary  field? 
How  many  of  us  will  pass  by  com- 
panions and  young  brethren  who, 
perhaps,  have  drifted  from  the  way 
of  truth  and  will  never  heed  them, 
never  seek  to  bring  them  back  to  the 
path  upon  which  they  should  walk, 
and  show  them  an  example.  We  are 
negligent,  I  think,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  this  regard.  We  will  travel 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  miles,  per- 
haps, to  preach  the  Gospel  in  foreign 
lands,  but,  as  Brother  Kimball  has  al- 
ready intimated,  we  neglect  this  duty 
at  home.  We  do  not  seek  as  we  should 
do  to  set  examples  to  our  young 
brethren  and  sisters  and  get  them  to 
take  an  active  interest  in  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  no 
doubt  as  to  the  undesirable  condition 
existing  among  some  of  the  young 
people  with  whom  we  are  associated 
in  this  Church.  Still,  at  the  same 
time,  we  are  more  prone  to  censure 
them  for  the  evils  which  are  done  than 
we  are  to  show  them  a  way  whereby 
they  may  escape  them. 

In  preaching  the  Gospel  here  at 
home,  I  have  met  with  circumstances 
which  taught  me  that  there  are 
parents    in    this    Church  who  teach 


their    children    to  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  they  will  go  right  ahead 
drinking  their  tea  and  coffee;  or  the 
father  will  go  on  chewing  tobacco,  or 
smoking  his  pipe.    At  the  same  time 
they  will,  perhaps,  tell  their  children 
that  they  should  be  exemplary,  set- 
ting   a    good  example  to  others.  We 
can      preach    the    Gospel— especially 
fathers    and    mothers — more  through 
example  than  by  precept.    If  we  teach 
our  children  while  they  are  young  to 
pray,   and  if  all  through  their  lives 
they    are    called  upon  morning  and 
evening  to  surround  the  family  altar, 
they  will  not  depart  from  that  custom 
of  prayer,  and  they  will  not  lose  that 
faith  in  God  which  was  instilled  into 
their    minds    at  their  mother's  knee 
and  around  the  family  altar,  although 
they  may,  perhaps,  for  a  time  forget 
these    things.     They    may,  perhaps, 
be      mixed       with       the  different 
elements    that    are    foreign    to  the 
Spirit  of  God.  and  become  neglectful 
of  their  duties.    Still,  sometime  in  their 
lives,  the    better    part    of    man  will 
crop    out,    and    the    teachings  they 
have    received    by    the    fireside  will 
come  to  them  as  a  blessing  and  a  sup- 
port.   We  are  all  here  to  gain  experi- 
ence,  as  I  understand  this  life.  At 
the  same  time,  how  much  evil,  and 
how  much  suffering  could  be  prevent- 
ed   if    greater    care    were  taken  in 
preaching  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
at  the  fireside,  and  not  depending  on 
mere  Sunday  religion  as  much  as  we 
do.    We  should,  I  believe,  make  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  a  part  of  our  every 
day    life.      How  many  times  I  have 
seen  the  example  where  children  had 
been  taught  to  pray,  that  they  would 
grow  up  and  be  men  and  women  of 
prayer,  they  would  have  faith  in  God. 
Once,  while  upon  my  mission,  I  had 
a  little  experience  which  pleased  me 
very  much,  in  receiving  a  letter  from 
a  sister  of  mine  who  resides  in  this 
city.    She  said  that  during  the  time 
that    she    was  writing  the  letter,  her 
son,  then  a  little  over  two  years  old, 
came  to  her  knee  and  asked  where  hl» 
uncle  was.    She  replied,  "upon  a  mis- 
sion."   He  said,  "a  mission  is  a  long 
time,  isn't  it?"    She  replied,  "It  will 
be  two  or  three  years."  He  says,  "well, 
write  uncle  in  the  letter  that  I  pray  for 
him."    This  knowledge  that  I  had  ot 
the  prayer  of  this  little  child,  and  ol 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  OWEN  WOODRUFF. 


57 


the  prayers  of  my  relatives  and  dear 
friends  at  home,  in  my  behalf,  was  a 
greater  support  to  me  than  almost 
anything,  any  knowledge  that  I  had 
except  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  was 
the  Christ.  I  knew  that  the  prayers 
of  those  innocent  children  would  be 
heard.  And  so  it  is,  the  prayers  of 
our  relatives  and  our  loved  ones,  sus- 
tain us  in  any  position.  But  when  we 
return  from  abroad,  perhaps  we  be- 
come negligent,  and  perhaps  those  who 
have  been  praying  for  us  while  abroad 
forget  about  us,  and  think  it  is  not  as 
important  to  pray  for  us  at  home  as 
when  we  were  away.  But  it  is  just  as 
important.  There  are  many  tempta- 
tions here  in  Zion  with  which  we  have 
to  battle  as  well  as  when  we  are  in 
the  world,  because  evil  will  come  unto 
us,  but  we  do  not  need  to  give  it  a 
resting  place  in  .our  lives. 

I  think  if  the  Word  of  Wisdom  were 
more  strictly  taught  among  our  peo- 
ple, there  would  be  a  good  deal  less 
sin;  but  how  can  we  teach  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  among  the  people  without 
first  teaching  them  faith  in  God.  You 
may  teach  a  young  man  not  to  smoke 
tobacco  or  use  stimulants  in  any  way, 
but  if  he  has  not  faith  in  God,  you 
might  as  well  talk  to  a  post  as  to  that 
young  man.  He  must  first  have  faith 
in  God,  and  have  a  hope  of  a  blessing 
and  a  reward  through  obedience 
to  His  laws.  These  are  principles 
which  I  think  at  least  the  young 
Latter-day  Saints  should  lay  to  heart. 
I  think  we  should  seek  to  keep  those 
commandments  which  have  been 
given  to  us.  We  should  seek  to  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  because  it  has 
been  revealed  of  God,  and  if  we  do  we 
are  made  great  promises.  We  are 
promised  that  we  shall  run  and  not 
be  weary,  and  that  we  shall  have 
health  and  strength  given  unto  us. 
I  believe  if  this  commandment,  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  were  more  strictly 
observed  among  the  people,  there 
would  be  less  use  for  the  physician 
or  surgeon,  that  there  would  be  less 
need  for  calling  in  a  doctor  for  every 
trivial  affair  than  there  is  today. 
We  are  willing  to  trust  to  God  for  the 
minor  matters,  but  when  something 
confronts  us,  which  appears  to  be  im- 
possible with  us,  then  we  will  call  in 
human    aid,  and    thereby    we  show 


our  lack  of  faith.  It  is  true  that  all 
the  assistance  and  all  the  skill  that  we 
can  produce  is  necessary,  perhaps,  at 
times  to  remove  the  obstacles  which  lie 
in  the  way  of  nature,  and  I  believe 
that  it  is  the  will  of  God  that  we 
should  do  all  we  can  for  ourselves,  and 
then  He  will  add  His  blessing.  But 
many  times  we  want  to  do  it  all  our- 
selves, and  do  not  want  God  to  do  any- 
thing at  all.  In  other  words,  we  trust 
in  man  more  than  we  do  in  God.  We 
have  seen  the  example,  many  times,  of 
people  who  have  put  their  trust  in 
certain  men.  We  find  that  if  those 
men  fall,  that  if  those  men  get  into 
darkness,  that  their  followers  go  with 
them. But  God  will  never  Pall.  God  is  as 
eternal  as  the  heavens.  All  who  put 
their  trust  in  God  will  never  fall,  if 
they  continue.  And  we  should  trust 
this  power,  in  great  things  as  well  as 
in  minor  affairs.  So  I  think  we  should 
practice  more  the  exercise  of  faith.  I 
recollect  reading  in  the  closing  part  of 
the  "Voice  of  Warning"  comparisons 
which  Apostle  Parley  P.  Pratt  has 
made  between  the  doctrine  taught  by 
the  Church  of  Christ  and  those  held 
and  practiced  by  the  so-called  Chris- 
tian world.  I  think  today  that  he 
could  line  up  a  great  many  of  those 
passages  on  one  side,  instead  of  put- 
ting them  opposite  each  other.  I 
think  we  fail  in  many  ways  in  fol- 
lowing the  things  of  God;  and  things 
which  we  have  been  in  the  habit  of 
laying  to  the  Christian  world,  so- 
called,  I  think  we  are  practicing  them 
ourselves;  and  we  all  know  that  there 
is  need  to  perform  in  our  own  lives 
these  things  in  which  we  believe.  We 
cannot  attempt  to  reform  a  body  of 
people,  or  to  promote  their  welfare, 
without  taking  an  interest  in  them, 
and  applying  the  principles  to  the  in- 
dividual. We  can  assist  each  other  in 
doing  right.  Two  men  who  pledge 
themselves  to  their  God  and  seek 
unitedly  to  do  right  are  stronger,  I 
believe,  in  carrying  out  such  a  resolve, 
and  they  have  less  difficulty  in  over- 
coming wrong.  I  have  often  thought 
that  this,  perhaps,  was  the  reason  why 
our  Bord  and  Savior  commanded  His 
Apostles  and  Seventies  to  go  out  two 
by  two.  We  find  in  the  case  of  the 
Elders  in  traveling  that  way,  that 
where  at  least  one  of  them  has  implicit 


5« 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


faith  in  God,  he  is  enabled  to  do  a 
good  missionary  work  in  the  interest  of 
his  companion,  at  least. 

May  the  blessings  of  God  attend  us. 
May  we  be  zealous  in  defending  that 
which  we  know  to  be  good,  and  in 
defending  the  Zion  of  God.  I  testify  to 
you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  that  I  have 
a  testimony  that  what  is  called  Mor- 
monism  is  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation unto  all  who  believe  and  obey. 
May  God  bless  you,  for  Christ's  sake. 
Amen. 

ELDER  J.  D.  T.  McAL LISTER. 

I  have  heard  with  pleasure  the  re- 
marks of  our  brethren  who  have  min- 
istered unto  us  in  this  Conference.  1 
have  been  mellowed  in  my  feelings, 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been 
made  manifest.  I  have  been  especially 
interested  and  edified  this  morning  in 
hearing  our  young  brethren  who  have 
been  called  to  the  Apostleship.  Their 
words  to  me  were  like  living  fire,  to  the 
young  and  rising  generation,  and  they 
are  true  before  the  Lord,  and  should 
be  listened  to,  not  only  by  our  young 
people  but  by  those  also  who  are  fur- 
then  advanced  in  life.  We  are  here  to 
do  the  Father's  will.  We  are  here  to 
promote  His  cause.  We  are  here  to 
help  mankind,  and  get  them  above  the 
groveling  ways  that  they 
have  fallen  into,  and  cause 
their  minds  and  all  that 
is  within  them  to  soar  aloft  and  to 
receive  more  of  that  life  that  reaches 
into  immortality,  eternal  life,  and  to 
enjoy  the  full  blessings  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  ordinances  of 
the  house  of  God,  for  therein  we  have 
blessings  for  this  life  and  the  life  to 
come.  Therein  we  learn  of  His  ways, 
we  learn  to  walk  in  His  paths.  We 
receive  that  power  and  blessing,  and 
the  keys  that  are  necessary  to  en- 
able us  to  understand  and  comprehend 
His  will,  His  mind,  and  His  word. 
To  do  this,  we  listen  to  the  sweet 
whisperings  of  His  Spirit,  to  the  coun- 
sels of  His  servants  who  are  minister- 
ing in  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood. I  honor  these  men,  because  they 
honor  God,  and  He  honors  them,  be- 
cause of  their  faithfulness  and  their 
diligence,  untiring  in  their  work  and 
labor,  ministering  day  and  night  for 
the  good  of  this  people.  I  feel  to  cher- 
ish them  and  hold  them  up  before  God, 


our  Eternal  Father,  that  His  choice 
blessings  may  be  upon  them  continu- 
ally. It  warms  and  cheers  my  heart 
to  see  our  venerable  President  here 
with  us,  and  so  well;  and  I  have  seen 
him  so  sick,  and  almost  near  to  death, 
raised  up  by  the  power  of  God  and 
the  good  acts  of  his  brethren.  I  am 
getting  along  a  little  bit  in  years.  I 
have  seen  the  travails  of  these  men 
and  their  sacrifices  for  the  good  of  this 
people,  and  I  feel  to  bless  them.  I  feel 
that  within  me  which  says,  God  bless 
these  men,  and  if  you  so  desire,  say 
amen.  (General  response  by  the  audi- 
ence of  Amen).  That  is  the  way  I 
feel  about  it.  Peace  be  unto  you  and  to 
all  Israel,  to  all  who  love  the  truth, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

CHURCH  SCHOOLS  AND  RELI- 
GION CLASSES. 

President  George  Q.  Cannon  made 
the  following  presentation  in  relation 
to  the  Church    schools    and  religion 

classes: 

During  the  school  year  1896-7,  there 


were  open 

Colleges   3 

High  schools   3 

Academies   6 

Seminaries   1 

Total..,   13 

Of  these  there  were  located 

In  Utah   8 

In  Idaho   4 

In  Mexico   1 


13 

The  teachers  therein  numbered  105, 
teaching  2,938  pupils  in  702  classes. 

Of  these  pupils  117  were  not  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  while  84  had  not 
yet  been  baptized.  Of  those  in  the 
Church  168  held  the  Melchizedek  and 
1,012  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

RELIGION   CLASS  REPORT. 
Reports   have   been   received  from 
classes  in  86  wards    in    11  different 
Stakes.    These  reports  show: 

Classes   208 

Instructors   399 

Pupils  8,447 

Brother  Maeser  has  visited  21 
Stakes  in  the  interest  of  the  religion 
classes. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem.  From 
afar,  gracious  Lord,  Thou  hast  gath- 
ered Thy  flock. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Brigham 
Young. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


59 


Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion of  the  hymn  which  commences: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  la- 
bor fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may 
appear, 
Grace  will  be  as  your  day. 

Prayer    by    Elder  Elias    H.  Black- 
burn. 
The  choir  sang: 

O,  my  Father,  Thou  that  dwellest 
In  the  high  and  glorious  place! 

"When  shall  I  regain  Thy  presence 
And  again  behold  Thy  face? 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG- 

A  visit  to  the    Irrigation   Congress — Old  land- 
marks—The Missionary  field. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  was  in- 
formed this  afternoon  when  I  first 
came  into  the  building,  that  the  breth- 
ren with  whom  I  associate  in  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Seventies  had  had  the  honor 
and  privilege  of  speaking  this  fore- 
noon; so  I  thought  that  they  had  done 
my  part  as  well  as  theirs.  Neverthe- 
less, I  acknowledge  that  I  am  honored 
to  stand  before  you  in  this  vast  as- 
sembly, and  if  I  do  not  have  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  to  impress  me  with  some- 
thing to  say,  my  standing  here  will 
have  been  in  vain;  for  without  that  in- 
fluence that  comes  from  the  Holy 
Spirit,  as  was  truly  said  here  yester- 
day, .  no  man  can  edify  this  vast  con- 
gregation. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  the  Ir- 
rigation congress  in  the  town  of 
Lincoln,  Nebraska.  That  is  the  town 
where  the  state  prison  is  located, 
where  my  fellow  laborer,  Brother 
George  Reynolds,  was  kept  in  durance 
vile  for  a  short  time  for  the  Gospel's 
sake.  I  did  not  know  the  exact  cell 
that  he  occupied,  or  I  should  have 
visited  it.  But  I  rejoice,  for  more  than 
one  reason,  for  the  privilege  of  visit- 
ing the  city  of  Lincoln.  It  lies  about 
fifty  miles  from  the  main  line  of  the 
Union  Pacific,  which  is  located  on  the 
old  Pioneer  road  on  which  Brigham 
Young  and  his  Pioneer  band  traveled 
on  their  way  to  Salt  Lake  valley  fifty 
years  ago.  As  I  journeyed  over  the 
plains,  I  could  locate  many  old  camp- 
ing places  that  we  used  to  stop  at 
during  our  transit  across  these  arid  re- 
gions by  mule  and  ox  teams,  years 
before  the  railroad  was  established. 


During  our  session  of  the  Irrigation 
congress,  no    person    from    Idaho,  or 
from  Arizona,  said  anything  about  ir- 
rigation, and  that  was    the  avowed 
theme  that  we  all   expected  to  talk 
about,  read  about  and  write  about  dur- 
ing the  congress.  There  seems  to  be  an 
idea  that  irrigation  started  somewhere 
in  the  state  of  Ohio.    I  am  not  really 
informed  as  to  whether  they  associate 
that  fact  (which  is  not  a  fact,  how- 
ever,) with  the  original  home  of  the 
Mormons    in  that    state.    Then  they 
drift  along  the  lines  into  Nebraska; 
and  one  of  their  foremost  publications, 
after   the  coming    congress  had  been 
located     at   the   city   of   the  plains, 
known  as  Cheyenne,  published  an  item 
on  the  following  morning  to  the  ef- 
fect that  it  was  a  great  mistake  to  hold 
the    Irrigation  congress  at  Cheyenne; 
it  ought  to  have  been  located  at  Chica- 
go, the  central  place  of  the  irrigation 
district,  Cheyenne  being  on  the  extreme 
western  limit  of  that  district.  The  west- 
ern  portion   of    the  congress  unitedly 
favored  Cheyenne  for  the  coming  sea- 
son, where  the  congress  will  no  doubt 
be  held,  as  it  was  so  decided  by  the 
congress  ;andl  believe  that  some  idea  of 
the  irrigation  system  and  the  plan  by 
which  the  pioneers  and  their  followers 
were  so  successful  in  wringing  bread 
and  other  necessaries  of  life  from  the 
desert  region  upon  which  they  located, 
will  no  doubt  be  more  fully  understood 
or  at  least  discussed  in  that  congress. 
We  had  a  very  pleasant  time,  however, 
and  were  greeted  with  great  kindness 
•and  shown  great  respect,  not  only  by 
the  members  of  that  congress,  but  by 
the  citizens  of  Lincoln.     The  governor 
gave  us  a  reception  and  ball  the  even- 
ing after  my  arrival,  in  which  we  were 
greeted  and  feted  to  our  heart's  con- 
tent.   Nebraska's  people  are  something 
like  our  own  people:  they  evinced  by 
their    language    and  by  their  hearty 
welcome  accorded  to  us  the  true  west- 
ern hospitality. 

While  there  I  hunted  up  the  mission- 
ary headquarters  of  the  Nebraska 
conference,  and  visited  with  the  sis- 
ter who  keeps  the  house  and  four  of 
the  Elders  who  are  located  in  that  dis- 
trict. I  enjoyed  myself  very  much  in 
this  association.  I  was  invited  very 
cordially  to  remain  over  a  few  days 
and  attend  their  conference;  but  I  had 


6o 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  kind  of  longing  to"  be  present  at  this 
greater  gathering,  and  on  that  account, 
and  some  others  of  minor  importance, 
I  hurried  home. 

I  rejoice  because  I  have  a  testimony 
to  bear  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  and 
of  the  organization  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood upon  the  earth,  and  seeing  so 
many  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  to- 
gether this  afternoon  who,  like  myself, 
have  the  testimony  and  the  witness  for 
God  in  their  hearts  and  shining 
through  their  countenances.  By  the 
spirit  which  is  in  the  house,  I  judge 
that  you  have  come  together  for  the 
purpose  of  being  fed  and  strengthened 
and  built  up  in  your  most  holy  faith. 
I  rejoice  that  we  have  had  a  great 
celebration  during  the  Twenty-fourth 
of  July  and  the  days  previous.  A 
great  deal  of  information  concerning 
this  people  has  been  scattered  abroad 
throughout  this  continent,  especially 
the  Avestern  and  the  eastern  states, 
through  representatives  which  they 
had  here — newspaper  reporters  and 
publishers,  and  prominent  men — during 
that  celebration;  and  the  fame  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  continue  to 
spread  over  the  land. 

A  gentleman  asked  me,  during  a  re- 
cess of  the  congress,  how  many  Elders 
we  had  in  the  missionary  field.  I  told 
him  that  we  had  something  more  than 
twelve  hundred  at  this  present  time. 
He  said  it  would  almost  seem  incred- 
ible that  the  Mormon  people,  so  small 
in  numbers  as  they  were  and  so  iso- 
lated as  they  had  been  for  many  years 
from  their  neighbors  upon  the  East, 
could  possibly  have  so  many  Elders  in 
the  field  preaching  the  tenets  of  their 
faith.  But  I  assured  him  it  was  a 
fact.  He  asked  me  how  they  were 
traveling,  and  how  they  were  support- 
ed from  day  to  day.  I  informed  him 
that  many  of  them  traveled  as  did  the 
ancient  disciples  and  Apostles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  without  purse  and  without 
scrip,  trusting  in  the  kindness  of  the 
people  and  in  the  spirit  that  prompted 
them,  to  win  the  hearts  of  those  among 
whom  they  traveled,  that  they  might 
be  ministered  unto,  and  be  fed  and 
clothed.  The  gentleman  said  that 
this  was  another  feature  of  the  disci- 
ples who  associated  with  our  Lord  and 
Savior  in  His  ministry,  and  one  that 
was  worthy  of  commendation  in  any 
religious  denomination,  and  one  which 


he  thought  was  calculated  to  try 
the  faith  of  those  who  traveled  in  this 
condition.  I  said  that  it  did  not  re- 
quire the  wealth  of  great  religious  de- 
nominations, or  the  wealth  of  individ- 
uals, to  spread  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  that  one  living  witness, 
with  a  testimony  of  the  truth  in  his 
heart,  could  go  forth  and  win  his  way 
among  the  people,  and  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  thousands;  and  the  few  that 
would  embrace  these  principles, in  their 
turn  became  witnesses  for  God;  ana 
the  Gospel  was  continuously  spread  in 
this  manner.  Granting  that  to  be  true, 
said  he,  how  much  greater  is  your 
chance  for  spreading  the  Gospel  with 
twelve  hundred  missionaries  constantly 
in  the  field. 

I  bear  witness  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God;  that  the  organi- 
zation of  the  Holy  Priesthood  is  cor- 
rect and  true  today,  and  after  the  an- 
cient pattern;  and  that  if  we  are  faith- 
ful to  the  truth  and  to  the  trust  com- 
mitted to  us,  we  shall  not  fail  of  sal- 
vation; for  the  Lord  has  promised  it  to 
us,  and  He  never  fails.  God  bless  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  increase 
your  faith  and  your  power  to  do  good, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 

God  is  -with  His  people— The  Purpose  for  which  he 
has  Gathered  them— A  Mission  for  All— No  Work 
done  for  the  Dead  will  be  in  Vain— The  Earth  and 
its  Inhabitants  to  be  Kedeemed. 

I  have  greatly  enjoyed  this  Confer- 
ence. It  has  seemed  to  me  that' the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  poured 
out  in  great  abundance  upon  the 
speakers  and  upon  the  hearers.  At 
every  meeting  which  we  have  held  we 
have  received  valuable  instruction,  and 
the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne 
to  us  concerning  the  work  of  God  have 
been  prompted  and  inspired  by  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  all  the  proceedings  of 
this  Conference  have  been  joyful  to 
me.  I  thank  the  Lord,  in  the  midst  of 
the  congregation,  that  I  have  been 
permitted  to  be  present  and  to  enjoy 
the  good  spirit  which  has  been  poured 
out  upon  us. 

I  also  have  a  testimony  to  bear  con- 
cerning this  great  work,  and  feel  will- 
ing now,  as  I  always  have  felt  ever 
since  I  joined  the  Church  in  my  boy- 
hood, to  bear  that  testimony,  in  public 


ELDER  C.   W.  PENROSE. 


61 


or  in  private,  when  called  upon  so  to 
do.    I  know  that  this  work  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord.   I  know  that  God  has  been 
with  His  people  from  the  organization 
of  the  Church  to  the  present  day.  I 
know  that  His   Spirit  was   not  only 
with  His   servant  Joseph,   whom  He 
called    to    lay    the  foundation  of  this 
work,  but  that  it  has  been  with  those 
who  have  succeeded  him.    They  have 
been   prophets,   seers   and  revelators, 
and  the  Lord   has   been   with  them. 
This  work  has  not  been  built  up  by 
the  power  of  man,  by  the  learning  of 
this  world,  by  the  riches  and  influence 
that  come  from  the  world,  but  it  has 
been   by  the  power  of  God.     And  I 
rejoice  to  know  that  that   power  is 
still  with  His  servants  and  with  His 
people,  and  that,  notwithstanding  our 
many    failings    and    weaknesses  and 
shortcomings — some    of    which  have 
been  pointed  out  during  this  Confer- 
ence— we  are  the  people  of  the  Lord; 
that  He  has  gathered  us  from  afar— 
from  the  east  and  the  west,  and  the 
north  and  the  south,  and  has  brought 
us  up  here  into  these  chambers  of  the 
mountains,  that  we    may    build  up 
Zion,  that  we  may  help  to  establish 
righteousness  in  the    earth,  that  we 
may  be  witnesses  for  God  and  for  .the 
truth  in  the  midst  of  an  unbelieving 
generation.     I   feel  very  thankful  in 
my  soul   for  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
which  has  been  planted  in  my  heart 
through  obedience  to  the  Gospel.  God 
gave  me  this  witness  when  I  was  a 
boy,  when  I  came  out  from  my  friends 
and  my    associates  and    joined  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.     He   put  His   Spirit  into  my 
heart,  and  I  thank  God  that  it  has 
never  departed  from  me.  The  Lord  has 
been  with  me,  as  with  the  rest  of  His 
servants,  in  traveling  in  the  ministry; 
and  I  have  seen  His  power  made  mani- 
fest in  various  ways.    While  I  have 
been  in  this  Conference,  my  mind  has 
reverted  to  many  things  that  occurred 
in  my  history  in  connection  with  the 
Church  in  the  past,  and  in  all  these 
things  I  have  had  cause  to  rejoice,  and 
to  thank  and  praise  the  Lord. 

God  has  brought  us  here,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  these  mountains 
not  merely  to  gather  around  us  the 
things  of  this  world,  to  make  us  happy 
and   comfortable   temporally;    but  He 


has  called  us  here  with  a  mission  to 
build  up  Zion,  to  publish  the  Cospel 
of  peace  to  all  nations,  to  gather  His 
people,  to  establish  His  kingdom,  to 
prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  reign  as  King  of 
Kings  and  Lord  of  Lords,  and  all  the 
promises  which  God  has  made  to  us 
will  be  fulfilled.  Every  word  that  has 
been  spoken  under  the  influence  ot  His 
Spirit  by  His  servants  will  come  to 
pass.  The  blessings  pronounced  upon 
our  heads  when  we  were  confirmed  in- 
to the  Church;  the  blessings  promised 
to  us  by  the  Patriarchs  when  they 
laid  their  hands  upon  our  heads  and 
blessed  us;  the  blessings  promised  to 
us  in  the  House  of  the  Lord — every 
word  will  be  fulfilled;  not  one  thing 
will  fall  to  the  ground.  We  may  fail, 
and  fall  by  the  way,  through  our  own 
follies  and  our  own  transgressions,  and 
our  own  weaknesses  and  short- 
comings; but  the  work  of  God 
and  the  word  of  God  will  abide 
forever,  and  the  kingdom  and 
the  greatness  of  the  kingdom  un- 
der the  whole  heavens  will,  as  the 
prophet  predicted,  be  given  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High — 
a  people  whom  Christ  will  have  pre- 
pared for  His  coming. 

We  should  take  to  heart  the  counsels 
which  we  have  received  while  we  have 
been  gathered  in  this  glorious  Confer- 
ence, and  carry  them  home  with  us, 
and,  if  our  families  have  not  been 
present,  teach  them  to  our  households. 
The  brethren  who  have  come  from 
distant  points,  who  bear  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  should  carry  home  with 
them  the  spirit  of  this  Conference  and 
the  teachings  that  have  been  given, 
and  disseminate  these  things  among 
the  people,  that  the  fire  which  has 
been  kindled  upon  this  altar  may  be 
taken  to  every  part  of  the  land  of 
Zion,  and  the  hearts  of  the  righteous 
be  made  to  rejoice.  I  know  that  it  is 
a  good  thing  for  us  to  be  in  perfect 
harmony  with  those  who  preside  over 
us  in  the  Holy  Priesthood — the  officers 
in  our  wards,  and  in  our  Stakes,  and 
with  the  Presidency  and  Apostles  of 
the  Church.  The  mind  and  will  of  the 
Lord  is  with  them,  and  when  we  are 
in  harmony  with  them  we  shall  be  in 
harmony  with  the  powers  that  are  on 
high.    This  is  what  God  desires  to  ac- 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


complish  on  the  earth — to  bring  a 
people  to  Him  who  shall  be  in  har- 
mony with  Him,  in  whom  His  Spirit 
can  have  free  course  and  be  gorified; 
a  people  who  shall  be  sensitive  to  the 
whisperings  and  operations  of  His  di- 
vine Spirit  flowing  down  from  His 
presence.  For  He  designs  to  regener- 
ate and  redeem  the  earth  upon  which 
we  stand;'  and  we,  His  people,  whom 
He  has  gathered  from  afar,  are  to  be 
the  instruments  in  His  hands  of  bring- 
ing about  this  great  work.  The  earth 
is  to  be  redeemed,  and  all  the  in- 
habitants thereof;  and  our  mission 
on  earth  is  to  labor  with  the  Lord 
for  the  accomplishment  of  this  pur- 
pose. And  this  should  be  first  and 
foremost  with  us.  All  other  things 
should  be  put  aside  as  subordinate.  Not 
that  we  need  to  cease  from  our  ex- 
ertions to  make  ourselves  happy  and 
comfortable  with  the  things  that  come 
from  the  earth — not  by  any  means; 
but  that  these  should  be  consecrated 
to  the  Lord;  that  all  our  efforts,  all 
our  exertions,  should  be  with  a  view 
to  building  up  Zion  and  establishing 
His  glorious  purposes  in  the  earth; 
that  we  may  help  to  save  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam — those  that  are 
living  on  the  earth  and  those  that 
have  passed  away  and  gone  behind 
the  veil. 

This  is  our  work.  To  this  God  has 
called  us.  This  is  what  we  are  here 
for.  This  is  why  we  have  been  sent 
from  the  courts  on  high — our  first 
birthplace — down  on  the  earth.  We 
are  the  children  of  God,  and  the  Lord 
has  called  us  to  dwell  on  the  earth  in 
the  later  days,  that  we  might  work  for 
Him  and  bring  about  this  glorious  pur- 
pose— the  redemption  of  the  earth  and 
the  inhabitants  thereof.  We  are  to 
preach  the  Gospel;  we  are  to  gather 
Israel;  we  are  to  go  into  the  houses 
that  have  been  prepared,  to  minister 
in  behalf  of  our  dead,  that  they  may 
be  redeemed.  And  we  need  not  think 
that  anything  we  do.  there  will  fail,  or 
be  done  for  naught.  It  will  all  count. 
I  have  heard  people  say,  "How  do  we 
know  that  the  persons  we  are  baptized 
for  in  the  House  of  the  Lord  will  ever 
have  any  benefit  from  our  administra- 
tions? We  do  not  know  whether  they 
will  receive  the  Gospel.  We  do  not 
know  whether  they  will  repent.  Are 
we  not  working  in  the  dark?"    Not  at 


all.  The  Lord  has  promised  that  the 
time  shall  come  when  "every  knee 
shall  bow  and  every  tongue  confess 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to  the  glory 
of  God  the  Father."  So,  then,  our 
works  performed  vicariously  in  the 
House  of  God — our  work  for  our  dead 
— at  some  time  will  count.  It  will  not 
be  thrown  away,  if  our  friends  who 
have  gone  before  us  into  the  spirit 
world  do  not  immediately  obey  the 
Gospel.  The  time  will  come  when  they 
will  be  glad  to  receive  it,  and  then  the 
ordinances  performed  for  them  will 
stand  to  their  good.  As  the  Prophet 
Joseph  declared,  when  he  wrote  on  this 
subject,  that  which  is  recorded  on  the 
earth  is  recorded  in  the  heavens,  and 
though  the  books  on  the  earth  might 
be  burned  we  shall  find  that  a  record 
is  kept  on  high,  and  that  in  the 
heavenly  archives  the  names  of  those 
who  have  been  baptized  for,  and  those 
who  are  baptized  for  them,  will  be 
written  and  will  stand  to  the  credit 
of  those  for  whom  these  services  have 
been  performed.  So  that  our  work  for 
our  dead  will  abide  and  will  stand, 
and  the  time  will  come  when  every  one 
who  is  administered  for  will  rejoice 
and  be  thankful  that  some  good  friend 
or  relative  has  been  in  the  House  of 
the  Lord  on  earth  and  ministered  in 
his  or  her  behalf.  . 

This  is  a  great  work  we  are  engaged 
in,  and  no  tongue  can  tell  its  magni- 
tude. When  our  minds  begin  to  open 
concerning  it,  we  feel  as  though  we 
could  talk  for  a  year  about  it,  and 
then  we  could  not  tell  all  about  it. 
It  comprehends  the  salvation  of  all 
that  can  be  saved  on  earth,  the  living 
and  the  dead;  and  then  the  redemption 
of  the  earth  itself,  its  purification,  its 
sanctification,  that  it  may  be  brought 
up  among  the  ransomed  and  redeemed 
worlds,  and  shine  in  its  own  glory,  be- 
ing graced  with  the  presence  of  its 
eternal  Creator,  where  the  ransomed 
of  the  Lord  shall  walk  in  white,  where 
perfect  harmony  shall  abound,  and 
where  every  soul  living  shall  praise 
the  Lord,  in  the  earth,  around  the 
earth,  and  under  it,  and  in  the  sea, 
and  all  things  that  pertain  to  it  will 
be  filled  with  praise,  with  joy,  and 
with  glorious  life.  This  is  the  work  we 
are  engaged  in.  We  are  called  to  this, 
my  brethren. 

Now  then,  let  us  lay  this  to  heart. 


ELDER  C.   W.  PENROSE. 


63 


Let  us  be  stirred  up  in  our  souls  in 
regard  to  this  great  work  that  God  has 
called  us  to.  Not  only  has  He  called 
the  Prophets  and  Apostles  and  leaders 
of  the  Church,  but  every  man  and  every 
woman  and  every  child  born  in  Zion. 
We  are  all  called  with  a  holy  calling. 
We  are  the  Lord's  people,  and  He  has 
put  this  work  upon  us,  and  it  is  for  us 
to  do  it.  If  we  do,  great  shall  be  our 
joy,  and  eternal  shall  be  our  reward. 
You  need  not  think  that  any  good  you 
do  escapes  the  notice  of  Him  on  high, 
who  shall  be  our  Judge.  Our  acts  are 
recorded.  God  understands  us.  He 
knows  the  motives  that  move  us  in 
our  souls.  He  knows  the  intents  of 
our  hearts.  And  though  we  may  some- 
times misjudge  each  other,  we  shall 
not  be  misjudged  by  the  Almighty. 
He  understands  us,  and  He  knows  our 
failings,  our  weaknesses  and  our 
shortcomings.  Now,  let  us  see  to  it 
that  we  keep  in  view  continually  that 
we  are  God's  people,  that  we  must  be 
different  from  the  world,  that  God  has 
called  us  out  of  the  world,  that  we 
may  be  His  people,  and  His  servants, 
to  build  up  Zion,  to  establish  righteous- 
ness, to  bring  about  all  things  pre- 
that  are  past.  For,  these  are  the  times 
that  are  past.  For  these  are  the  times 
of  the  restitution  of  all  things;  this  is 
the  time  for  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Elder  Brother;  this 
is  the  work  preparatory  to  His  coming. 

Now,  let  us  unite  in  spirit.  Let  us  put 
away  from  ourselves  all  things  that 
offend,  everything  contrary  to  the 
genius  and  spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  to 
the  counsel  and  direction  of  the  Lord; 
and  let  us  look  for  light  and  intelli- 
gence to  the  sources  that  God  Al- 
mighty has  put  in  His  Church  for  that 
purpose.  I  have  been  very  much 
startled,  quite  recently,  to  know  of 
people  who  are  opposing  certain 
movements  simply  because  they  un- 
derstand that  the  leading  authorities 
of  the  Church  want  them.  Just  think 
of  that  now  for  a  moment!  The  idea 
of  men,  holding  the  Priesthood  too,  op- 
posing a  thing  because  they  believe 
'  that  the  authorities  of  the  Church 
want  it!  What  condition  of  mind 
must  they  be  in? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take  to 
heart  the  counsels  that  we  have  re- 
ceived   in  this  Conference,  and  carry 


home  the  spirit  with  us.  Let  us  re- 
member that  God  Almighty  has  estab- 
lished an  order  in  His  Church— the 
order  of  the  Holy  Priesthood— for  the 
guidance  of  His  people,  that  they  may 
be  one.  They  cannot  be  one  unless 
they  unite  on  this  principle;  and 
His  Spirit  will  not  be  in 
their  hearts  to  harmonize  and  unite 
them  except  they  listen  to  the  guides 
that  God  has  placed  to  lead  them  in 
the  path  of  life.  These  are  important 
things.  I  know  the  time  was  in  the 
Church  when  every  man  desired  with 
his  whole  heart  to  find  out  what  was 
wanted  of  the  Lord  through  His  ser- 
vants, and  then  he  desired  to  accom- 
plish it.  That  should  be  the  spirit 
dwelling  in  our  hearts  today.  Do  we 
not  need  guidance  now  as  much  as  we 
ever  did?  Do  we  not  need  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  to  lead  us  along  and 
take  us  out  of  our  difficulties— 
our  financial  troubles,  our  labor 
troubles,  these  social  difficulties 
that  are  around  us  as  well  as  around 
the  world0  I  say  we  do.  We  need  the 
light  of  the  Lord,  the  voice  of  the 
Lord;  and  God  has  placed  in  His 
Church,  just  as  much  today  as  He  did 
anciently,  'Apostles  and  Prophets, 
Evangelists,  Pastors  and  Teachers,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  per- 
fecting of  the  Saints,  for  the  edifying 
of  the  body  of  Christ."  If  God  has 
anything  to  reveal  to  this  people  as 
a  Church,  He  will  reveal  it  through 
the  head,  through  the  man  that  He 
has  placed  to  hold  the  keys;  and  He 
will  bless  all  His  servants  who  are 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators  with 
the  spirit  of  their  calling,  if  we  up- 
hold and  sustain  them,  not  only  by 
our  faith  and  our  prayers,  but  by  our 
works. 

I  desire  with  all  my  heart  to  be 
faithful  and  true  to  the  Gospel,  to  en- 
dure to  the  end  of  my  earthly  career; 
and  then  I  know  I  shall  be  safe 
when  I  get  on  the  other  side.  I  de- 
sire to  do  all  I.  can  while  I  breathe  the 
breath  of  life  to  build  up  this  glorious 
work.  I  know  of  nothing  that  a  man 
could  be  engaged  in  that  is  worth  as 
much.  My  whole  soul  was  in  the 
Church  when  I  came  into  it;  I  feel 
glad  that  I  am  the  same  today;  that 
my  heart  is  set  to  help  to  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God  in  any  way  that 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


my  services  can  be  available.  I  thank 
God  for  the  testimony  of  the  truth.  I 
thank  God  for  the  spirit  that  has  been 
present  at  this  Conference.  I  thank 
God  that  He  has  given  me  this  wit- 
ness, and  I  desire  to  serve  Him  and 
keep  His  commandments,  and  to  aid 
others  in  doing-  so  to  the  extent  of  my 
ability.  May  God  bless  this  people, 
and  may  Zion  grow  and  increase  and 
spread  abroad,  and  become  the  joy  of 
the  whole  earth.  I  know  that  God 
will  redeem  His  people.  I  know  that 
Eden  will  bloom  again.  I  know  that 
Paradise  will  be  restored.  I  know  that 
Satan  will  be  bound.with  all  his  hosts, 
and  that  this  earth,  and  the  children 
of  men  that  belong  to  it,  will  come 
forth  from  darkness  and  death,  each 
in  his  place  and  time  and  season;  and 
God  will  save  His  children,  and  He 
will  glorify  those  who  labor  for 
righteousness,  and  crown  them  with 
eternal  life  and  everlasting  joy.  God 
help  us  to  be  faithful,  for  Christ's 
sake.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 

Mission  of  the  Saints — How  Satan  will  be  bound — 
Approaching  Judgments — Wickedness  of  the 
world — Cleansing  process  in  progress — Who  are 
the  children  of  God? — The  Spirit  of  Revelation 
with  the  Church — Return  of  the  Ten  Tribes. 

The  hopes  and  anticipations  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  probably  dif- 
ferent from  those  of  any  other  people 
in  Christendom,  if  not  in  the  world. 
We  are  looking  forward,  as  Elder  Pen- 
rose has  said,  to  the  time  when  prim- 
itive conditions  will  be  restored;  Avhen 
we  shall  have  paradise  on  earth,  when 
Eden  will  be  restored  to  the  earth, 
when  Satan  will  be  bound,  when  a 
reign  of  righteouness  will  be  ushered 
in,  when  sin  will  be  banished  from  the 
face  of  the  earth,  when  what  has 
been  termed  Millennial  glory  will  be 
ushered  in.  We  anticipate  that  this 
will  be  brought  about  not  entirely  by 
the  Lord's  intervention,  but  by  man, 
directed  by  the  Lord,  laboring  to  ac- 
complish these  results.  I  do  not  know 
any  other  people  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  who  indulge  in  these  anticipa- 
tions, or  who  expect  these  results  to 
be  brought  about  in  the  manner  in 
which  we  do.  It  is  generally  thought 
that  this  will  be  done  by  the  mani- 
festation   of  God's  power,  independent 


almost  of  human  agency  and  effort; 
but  we  have  been  taught  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God,  and  that  He  works 
out  His  results  by  aiding  His  children, 
teaching  them,  and  having  them  exer- 
cise their  agency  in  the  direction  that 
He  points  out.   This  being  the  case, 
we  should  take  to  heart    the  instruc- 
tions  we    have    received,    and  real- 
ize that  the  Lord  has  given  unto  us 
a  mission,  and  that  we  are  called  upon 
to    exert  our   utmost  abilities   to  ac- 
complish   the   ends    that    have  been 
predicted.     I  think  if  all  of  us  would 
do  this,  and  feel  that  the  accomplish- 
ment of  these  results  depends  upon  us, 
individually  as  well  as  collectively,  it 
would  have  the  effect  to  stimulate  us 
and  to  stir  us  up  to  great  diligence. 
I  believe  that  those  of  us  who  will  not 
labor  to  accomplish  these  ends  will  be 
removed  from  the  midst  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  I  do  not  believe  that 
people  can  stay  in  this  Church,  as  the 
end  approaches,  and  remain  inactive, 
indolent,  indifferent,  and  sinful.  God 
has  called  us  to  do  this  work;  and 
when  He  calls  men,  as  we  have  seen, 
to  go  on  missions  to  accomplish  cer- 
tain results  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel,  if    they    do  not  labor  in  that 
mission  as  they  should  do,  He  takes 
His  Spirit  from  them.    So  also,  hav- 
ing this  great  mission  assigned  to  us, 
and  it  being  made  incumbent  upon  us, 
and  having  received  charge  concern- 
ing it,  if  we  do  not  seek  to  accomplish 
that  mission,  the  Lord  will  withdraw 
His  Holy  Spirit  from  us.  He  will  not 
permit  us  to  go  on  and  live  lives  of 
indifference  and  sinfulness  in  regard  to 
His  work.   It  is   individual  salvation 
that    is  to  be  accomplished.    If  I  am 
saved,  and  if  Satan  is  bound    as  .far 
as  I  am   concerned,  it  must   be  by  my 
doing  that  which  God  requires  at  my 
hands.  God  will  not  take  away  from 
me  my  agency.  If  I  am  determined  to 
listen  to  Satan  and  to  be  influenced  by 
his  spirit,  He  will  suffer  me,  in  the 
exercise    of  my  agency,    to  do  that. 
But  I  must  take  the  consequences  of 
thus  doing.  We  see  that  illustrated  in 
the  history  of  Abel  and     Cain.  Cain* 
loved   Satan  more  than  God  and  he 
listened  to  him;  he  became  the  servant 
of  Satan,  to  the  extent  of  doing  that 
which  he  required  of  him.   Now,  he 
could  have  done  otherwise;  he  could 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  O.  CANNON. 


65 


have  done  as  Abel  did;  but  he  chose 
to  do  differently,  and  he  had  to  endure 
the  consequences  of  his  conduct. 

We  talk  about  Satan  being  bound. 
Satan  will  be  bound  by  the  power  of 
God;  but  he  will  be  bound  also  by  the 
determination  of  the  people  of  God 
not  to  listen  to  him,  not  to  be  gov- 
erned by  him.  The  Lord  will  not  bind 
him  and  take  his  power  from  the  earth 
while  there  are  men  and  women  will- 
ing to  be  governed  by  him.  That  is 
contrary  to  the  plan  of  salvation.  To 
deprive  men  of  their  agency  is  con- 
trary to  the  purposes  of  our  God. 
There  was  a  time  on  this  continent, 
of  which  we  have  an  account,  when 
the  people  were  so  righteous  that 
Satan  did  not  have  power  among  them. 
Nearly  four  generations  passed  away 
in  righteousness.  They  lived  in  purity, 
and  died  without  sin.  That  was 
through  their  refusal  to  yield  to  Satan. 
It  is  not  recorded  that  Satan  had  no 
power  in  other  parts  of  the  earth 
daring  that  period.  According  to  all 
history  that  we  have  in  our  posses- 
sion, Satan  had  the  same  power  over 
men  who  were  willing  to  listen  to 
him.  But  in  this  land  he  did  not  have 
power,  and  he  was  literally  bound.  I 
believe  that  this  will  be  the  case  in  the 
millennium;  and  1  reason  upon  it 
as  I  do  upon  that  happy  condition 
that  is  described  in  the  record  of 
which  I  speak.  I  expect  that  before 
Satan  is  fully  bound  the  wicked  will 
be  destroyed.  You  are  familiar  with  the 
history  which  the  Book  of  Mormon 
gives  of  that  period.  There  was  a 
great  destruction  among  the  people. 
The  Lord  visited  them  in  a  most  ter- 
rible manner.  Dreadful  calamities  fell 
upon  them,  and  the  wicked  were  liter- 
ally wiped  out,  just  as  much  as  the 
antedeluvian  world  was  wiped  out  by 
the  flood.  That  wicked  generation 
was  completely  extirpated,  and  those 
only  were  left  who  were  righteous.  I 
look  forward  to  the  same  kind  of 
destructions  preceding  the  glorious 
events  that  will  take  place  in  the  near 
future.  The  earth  will  be  visited  by 
fire.  President  Smith  yesterday  told 
us  that  "he  that  is  tithed  shall  not  be 
burned  (at  His  coming.")  I  believe  that 
there  will  be  literal  fire  come  upon  the 
earth,  and  calamities  and  destruc- 
tions of  so  universal  a  character  that 


the  earth  will  be  burned,  so  to  speak, 
so  that  there  will  be  but  few  men 
left.  If  the  covering  could  be  taken 
off  our  city,  and  of  the  cities  of  the 
world— I  would  not  compare  our  city 
to  many;  but  even  if  it  were  taken  off 
our  city,  we  who  are  here  today  would 
be  appalled  at  the  sight.  The  abomi- 
nations and  secret  wickedness  that  are 
practiced  among  the  nations  are  in- 
truding themselves  among  us.  Un- 
speakable practices  are  creeping  in. 
They  are  varied  in  character.  If  we 
spoke  of  them  at  all,  we  would  have  to 
disguise  their  abominable  character. 
In  our  own  nation,  and  in  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  there  is  a  condition 
of  things  that,  if  we  knew  of  it, 
would  appall  us.  Let  me  allude  to  one 
instance. 

In  England  a  short  time  ago  a  man 
who  had  posed  in  society  as  a  man  of 
culture  and  of  taste,  and  who  lectured 
upon  esthetics,  was  found  to  be  guilty 
of  a  most  abominable  crime — a  crime 
for  which  under  the  old  law  the  pen- 
alty was  death;  a  crime  which  was 
practiced  by  the  nations  of  old,  and 
caused  God  to  command  their  destruc- 
tion and  extirpation.  This  crime  was 
proved  against  this  man,  and  some  of 
his  associates  were  what  are  called 
noblemen.  He  was  sent  to  prison.  His 
term  of  imprisonment  having  expired, 
he  comes  from  prison,  and  is  now  en- 
gaged, it  is  so  published,  in  writing  a 
book,  and,  we  suppose  is  received 
into  society,  though  guilty  of  this 
nameless  crime.  And  is  this  common? 
If  we  may  believe  that  which  is  told 
to  us,  without  going  into  researches 
ourselves,  it  and  other  kindred  wicked- 
ness, is  far  too  common.  The  same 
sin  that  caused  the  utter  destruction 
of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah!  This  and 
other  abominable  crimes  are  being 
practiced.  How  will  these  be  stopped? 
Only  by  the  destruction  of  those  who 
practice  them.  Why,  if  a  little  nest  of 
them  were  left  that  were  guilty  or 
these  things,  they  would  soon  corrupt 
others,  as  some  are  being  corrupted 
among  us.  In  coming  to  these  moun- 
tains we  hoped  to  find  a  place  where 
we  could  live  secluded  from  the 
abominations  of  Babylon.  But  here 
in  this  secluded  place  wickedness  in- 
trudes itself,  and  is  practiced  in  this 
land  which  we  have  dedicated  to  the 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  as  a  land  of  Zion!  How  can  this 
be  stopped?  Not  while  those  who 
have  knowledge  of  these  filthy  crimes 
exist.  The  only  way,  according  to  all 
that  I  can  understand  as  the  word 
of  God,  is  for  the  Lord  to  wipe  them 
out,  that  there  will  be  none  left  to 
perpetuate  the  knowledge  of  these 
dreadful  practices  among  the  children 
of  men.  And  God  will  do  it,  as  sure 
as  He  has  spoken  by  the  mouths  or 
His  prophets.  He  will  destroy  the 
wicked,  and  those  who  will  be  left 
.will  be  like  the  Nephites  after  the 
wicked  were  all  killed  off;  they  were 
righteous  men  and  women  who  lived 
for  over  two  hundred  years  according 
to  the  law  of  heaven. 

The  duty  that  devolves  upon  us  is 
to  live  pure  ourselves,  and  to  have 
our  children  live  lives  of  purity.  There 
is  too  much  looseness  among  us. 
Much  as  we  are  taught  concerning 
virtue,  we  occasionally  hear  of  acts 
that  cause  us  the  greatest  pain — 
young  people  indulging  in  unvirtuous 
actions;  children  born  two,  three,  and 
four  months  earlier  than  they  should 
be.  It  is  an  extraordinary  condition 
that  the  first  children  of  some  mar- 
riages are  born  sometimes  five  months 
and  even  less  after  marriage.  This 
is  an  evidence  of  something  very 
wrong.  And  this  is  not  all.  We  can- 
not tell  what  is  done  in  secret.  This 
is  made  public,  because  the  evidence 
of  sin  comes  to  light  and  cannot  be 
concealed  without  the  commission  of 
more  hideous  crime.  And  this  among 
a  people  such  as  we  are!  It  is  a  dis- 
grace to  us.  Yet  much  of  it  is  due  to 
our  neglect.  Fathers  and  mothers  do 
not  pay  that  attention  to  their  chil- 
dren, to  their  habits  and  their  associa- 
tions, that  they  should  do.  If 
,hey  watched  them  with  care, 
and  enquired  of  them  where 
they  went  and  with  whom  they 
associated,  and  threw  safeguards 
around  them,  such  things  would  not 
happen.  There  are  conditions  of 
society,  even  among  other  nations, 
where  such  things  are  very  uncommon, 
because  of  the  habits  of  the  people. 
Fathers  and  mothers  guard  theii- 
daughters  with  the  greatest  circum- 
spection and  vigilance.  France  is  one 
of  those  nations.  Although  France  is 
said  to  be  a  corrupt  nation,  the  daugh- 


ters of  the  people  are  watched  and 
their  association  with  the  other  sex 
is  guarded  so  that  nothing  of  this 
kind  scarcely  ever  happens.  But  with 
us  there  is  too  much  familiarity  be- 
tween the  sexes.  It  is  wrong;  it  leads 
to  bad  results.  The  commission  of 
sin  makes  lives  of  unhappiness.  No 
woman  can  forget  the  trespass  of  her 
husband,  and  no  man  can  ever  forget 
his  own  sin.  It  is  painful  through 
life  for  them  to  think  about.  We 
should,  as  a  people,  guard  against 
these  things.  All  sorts  of  evils  are 
introducing  themselves.  We  have 
men  here  with  whom  a  woman  can  no 
more  be  trusted  than  she  could  be  in 
the  den  of  a  wolf — and  men  of  res- 
pectable appearance,  and  who  act  as 
though  they  might  be  gentlemen. 
Parents  would  be  as  safe  in  trusting 
a  daughter  to  a  wild  beast  as  to  one 
of  them.  This  class  of  men  prey  upon 
the  other  sex,  and  have  brought 
themselves  to  think  that  it  is  neither 
sinful  nor  wrong.  They  destroy 
virtue  wherever  they  can,  and  take 
pride  in  it.  They  do  not  believe  there 
need  be  any  virtue  among  men,  and 
all  women  whom  they  can  induce  to 
comply  with  their  wishes  they  view 
as  their  lawful  prey.  And  these  peo- 
ple come  among  us,  and  consort  with 
us!  Our  young  men,  too,  consort  with 
them,  and  some  of  them  take  lessons 
from  them.  We  have  heard  lately  of 
an  occurrence  of  this  character  that 
has  stirred  our  souls  to  the  very  cen- 
ter. 

When  will  these  things  end?  When 
God  visits  the  wicked  with  His  judg- 
ments, as  He  will  do.  Then  these 
practices  and  the  wicked  and  the 
knowledge  of  their  wickedness,  will  be 
destroyed.  Then,  I  hope,  the  filthy 
details  and  the  exact  forms  and 
methods  of  these  abominations  will 
be  kept  secret,  as  the  Prophet  Alma 
counseled  his  son  Helaman  concern- 
ing the  secret  oaths  and  covenants 
of  the  Jaredites,  that  had  come  down 
from  the  days  of  Master  Mahan,  of 
whom  we  read  in  the  new  transla- 
tion, and  who  was  the  head  of  that 
secret  organization  that  banded 
themselves  together  to  commit  mur- 
ders and  works  of  darkness.  Alma  said 
to  Helaman: 


F RESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


67 


"Therefore  ye  shall  keep  these  secret 
plans  of  their  oaths  and  their  cove- 
nants from  this  people,  and  only  their 
wickedness,  and  their  murders,  and 
their  abominations,  shall  ye  make 
known  unto  them;  and  ye  shall  teach 
them  to  abhor  such  wickedness,  and 
abominations,  and  murders;  and  ye 
shall  also  teach  them,  that  these  peo- 
ple were  destroyed  on  account  of  their 
wickedness,  and  abominations,  and 
their  murders." 

So,  I  trust,  it  will  be  with  us.  The 
knowledge  of  the  wicked  and  their 
destruction  will  be  preserved  in  our 
midst;  but  the  abomination  and  the 
wickedness  itself  will  be  concealed 
from  human  knowledge,  so  that  wick- 
edness may  be  abolished  in  the  earth, 
and  the  reign  of  righteousness  be 
ushered  in. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  talking 
in  this  strain  I  am  not  indulging  in 
any  theory.  I  do  not  wish  to  deal  in 
the  least  exaggeration  concerning 
conditions  that  exist.  My  duties  have 
called  me  to  mingle  with  the  world 
considerably;  but  I  have  avoided 
knowledge  of  things  that  were  open 
to  me  if  I  had  chosen  to  look  at  them 
or  to  enquire  about  them.  Notwith- 
standing this,  it  has  been  impossible 
for  me  to  avoid  knowing  considerable 
about  many  wicked  practices,  and  how 
little  of  sin  is  attached  to  them  by  the 
people  of  the  world.  It  is  this  that  is 
the  fearful  feature  in  society.  Men 
may  seduce;  men  may  be  guilty  of 
vileness;  men  may  get  disreputable 
names  for  their  association  with  the 
other  sex;  and  yet  society  will  re- 
ceive them  and  condone  their  offenses; 
in  fact,  it  has  seemed  to  me  sometimes 
as  though  men  of  this  character,  with 
a  certain  class  of  women,  were  more 
attractive  than  pure,  modest,  diflldent 
men.  They  seem  to  think  more  of  them 
because  of  the  fame  they  have 
achieved  in  their  conquests  of  virtue. 
But  a  poor  girl  that  falls  in  such  a 
way,  she  is  trampled  in  the  dust  and 
becomes  a  lost  soul!  And  her  own  sex, 
while  admiring  the  seducer  and  receiv- 
ing him  into  their  society,  will  fre- 
quently be  the  most  fierce  and  vehe- 
ment in  their  denunciations  of  their 
poor  sister  who  has  fallen  by  the  wiles 
and  seductive  influences  of  the  man. 
Now,  all  this  is  wrong.  Yet  this  feel- 
ing is  among  us  to  some  extent,  also. 
Men  ought  to  be  held,  and  I  believe 


the  Lord  does  hold  them  111  such 
cases,  to  a  far  stricter  accountability 
than  he  does  women.  The  woman  has 
her  own  passions  to  contend  against; 
but  when  she  has  the  man's  impor- 
tunities added  to  these,  shall  not  the 
woman  be  viewed  with  mercy,  and  be 
looked  upon  differently  ,to  that  vile 
creature  who,  possessed  of  strength 
and  power,  adds  his  importunities  to 
her  weakness  and  overcomes  her,  and 
makes  her  the  victim  of  his  unholy 
lust?  I  say,  Yes,  Yes!  Such  men  will 
be  damned;  and  if  there  is  any  deeper 
damnation  than  another,  they  will  be 
consigned  to  it. 

Now,  if  we  want  our  generations 
to  live  in  the  earth,  and  to  have  them 
go  down  through  the  thousand  years; 
if  we  want  to  have  representatives 
among  the  children  of  men  during 
that  happy  period,  we  have  to  lay  the 
foundation  for  that  now.  As  we  have 
been  told  during  this  Conference,  the 
day  of  the  Lord  cometh:  it  is  near  at 
hand;  and  if  we  and  our  children  live, 
it  will  be  because  we  try  to  be  pure. 
No  generation  from  this  time  forth 
can  live  for  any  length  of  time  unless 
they  are  pure;  for  God  has  said  it, 
and  His  word  does  not  return  unful- 
filled. Even  now  you  can  see  how  this 
Church  is  being  cleansed  as  we  go 
along.  Look  at  the  families  that  we 
have  known  in  the  Church,  and  see 
how  they  are  being  thinned  out,  just 
as  though  we  were  passing  through  a 
sifting  machine.  And  when  we  see  how 
few  of  those  whom  we  have  known 
have  clung  to  the  iron  rod  and  main- 
tained their  faith,  we  are  led  to  ask, 
who  then  can  be  saved?  Then  how 
many  families  there  are  who,  after 
the  death  of  the  father  and  mother, 
are  not  numbered  among  the  Saints 
of  God!  This  is  a  cleansing  process 
which  is  going  on,  and  it  will  continue 
to  go  on  more  and  more,  because  we 
are  advancing.  The  Lord  will  hold  us 
to  a  stricter  accountability  than  He 
ever  has  done,  because  we  have  more 
light,  and  because  of  the  near  ap- 
proach of  the  end.  The  end  does  ap- 
proach, and  the  Lord  Jesus  will  come 
in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  as  has  been 
predicted,  and  He  will  reign  on  the 
earth,  and  over  a  pure  people.  His  peo- 
ple will  be  cleansed  and  made  pure 
by  the  destruction  of  the  wicked  and 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  preservation  of  the  righteous.  That 
is  the  reason  every  wise  man  and 
woman  observes  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
They  want  to  live  and  be  preserved 
when  these  calamities  and  judgments 
shall  sweep  through  the  earth.  We 
ought  not  to  have  to  preach  it  for  a 
minute  among  a  people  such  as  we  are. 
Every  man  and  woman  should  be 
determined  to  keep  that  Word,  that 
they  may  have  the  blessing,  that  they 
and  their  children  may  live  and  not 
be  killed  with  pestilence  and  sickness. 
Such  persons  will  desire  every  child 
of  theirs  to  avoid  violating  the  coun- 
sel of  God  in  these  things.  Thoy  will 
also  say,  besides  observing  the  Word 
of  Wisdom:  "I  want  to  pay  my  tithing. 
I  expect  there  will  be  a  burning  some 
day,  and  I  want  to  be  preserved  when 
the  day  of  burning  comes.  I  want  to 
keep  the  law  that  will  bring  the  ful- 
fillment of  the  promises  of  God." 
Should  not  we  here  in  this  year  1897, 
live  in  this  way? 

Many  have  supposed  that  by  this 
time  the  Lord  would  have  come  in 
His  glory.  He  has  not  yet  come  in  that 
manner.  But  He  is  coming,  and  His 
■coming  is  near  at  hand.  Therefore, 
we  should  each  endeavor  to  live  so 
that  we  shall  be  prepared  for  His  com- 
ing; Ave  should  prepare  the  way  by 
keeping  His  commandments  and  liv- 
ing so  that  Satan  will  be  bound,  so 
far  as  we  and  our  families  are  con- 
cerned. It  is  incumbent  upon  us  that 
we  should  live  this  way;  for  the  Lord 
will  not,  I  can  assure  you  •  CI  speak 
having  knowledge  upon  this  point),  al- 
ways bear  with  us.  Elders  cannot  wear 
themselves  out  as  they  have  done  in 
the  past,  and  as  they  are  still  doing, 
in  preaching  the  word '  of  God  to  this 
people,  and  the  Lord  not  hold  tho  peo- 
ple accountable  for  their  disobedience, 
if  they  reject  that  word.  The  Lord  will 
have  a  pure  people.  He  will  have  a 
people  whose  hearts  are  changed. 

Some  religious  societies,  you  know, 
believe  altogether  in  faith  as  the  only 
essential  to  salvation.  On  the  other 
hand,  I  have  heard  some  of  our  Elders 
go  to  the  other  extreme  and  almost 
look  upon  work  as  being  all  that  is 
necessary,  because  of  the  saying  of 
James.  But  the  word  of  God  which  we 
have  teaches  us  that  we  must 
be  born  again,  and  our  hearts  must  be 


changed,  and  every  evil  desire  crushed 
out.  Our  whole  natures  should  be 
changed  by  the  operations  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  and  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  I  think  it  was  Brother  Cow- 
ley who  spoke  concerning  some  apos- 
tates whom  they  found  while  laboi'ing 
in  the  mission  field  in  Missouri.  When 
they  belonged  to  the  Church  they  had 
not  received  and  enjoyed  the  Spirit  of 
God.  There  are  some  probably  here 
today  who  have  never  had  their  hearts 
changed,  never  had  new  desires,  never 
been  converted  from  their  old  de- 
sires, and  the  "old  man"  is  with  them 
still.  There  have  been  people  whom, 
probably,  we  have  all  known,  who 
would  cheat,  and  lie,  and  get  drunk, 
and  do  other  evil  things,  just  as  much 
as  if  they  never  had  been  brought 
into  the  Church  of  Christ.  Are  these 
the  children  of  God?  No;  God  does 
not  own  such  people.  When  men  and 
women  join  the  Church  in  sincerity, 
they  repent  of  their  sins,  and  they 
have  new  desires.  The  desire  to  Jo 
evil  is  taken  from  them.  The  Spirit 
of  God  will  not  dwell  in  a  man  that 
has  evil  desires  and  does  not  try  to 
quench  them.  We  as  a  people  -rhould 
seek  to  be  converted  in  this  respect,  if 
we  have  not  been.  If  we  are  as  wicked 
and  have  as  wicked  inclinations 
since  our  baptism  and  our  association 
with  the  Church  as  we  had  before, 
then  we  need  to  be  converted  and  be 
born  again. 

We  hear  a  good  deal  of  talk  about 
re-baptism,  and  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve  have  felt  that  so 
much  re-baptism  ought  to  be  stopped. 
Men,  when  they  commit  sin,  think 
if  they  can  only  get  the  Bishop  to  re- 
baptize  them,  they  are  all  right  and 
their  sins  are  condoned.  It  is  a  falla- 
cy; it  will  lead  to  destruction.  There 
is  no  such  thing  in  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  repentance 
from  sin  that  will  save  you,  not  re- 
baptism.  If  you  have  been  baptized, 
then,  if  you  commit  sin,  repent  of  the 
sin,  confess  it,  and  make  the  confes- 
sion as  broad  as  the  knowledge  of  the 
sin;  confess  it  to  your  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  ask  their  forgiveness; 
and  do  not  imagine  that  when  you 
commit  sin  you  can  slip  into  the 
waters  of    baptism  and  you    are  all 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


69 


right  again.  Do  not  delude  your- 
selves, brethren  and  sisters.  Sinners, 
be  not  deceived  by  such  a  fallacy. 
Something  more  than  this  is  neces- 
sary. "We  need  to  repent  of  our  sins, 
and  to  confess  them  to  God.  We  need 
to  come  before  the  Lord  with  broken 
hearts  and  contrite  spirits,  and  be- 
fore the  Church  with  the  spirit  of 
confession.  We  should  not  be  afraid 
to  confess  our  sins;  for  there  is  no 
man  among  us  that  is  not  a  sinner. 
Of  course,  there  are  different  degrees 
of  sin,  and  there  is  a  difference  in  the 
degrees;  but  no  man  or  woman,  in 
listening  to  the  confession  of  another, 
need  pride  himself  or  herself  and  say, 
"I  am  not  a  sinner.  Here  is  this  poor 
creature,  a  sinner;  oh,  how  I  pity 
him!"  If  we  come  to  God  m  humility, 
He  will  show  unto  us  our  sins,  and  our 
imperfections,  and  our  faults;  and  we 
will  feel  merciful  to  our  brethren  and 
sisters  who,  like  ourselves,  are  weak 
and  erring.  We  will  be  full  of  pity 
for  them,  and  we  will  forgive  them. 
This  is  the  feeling  that  should  exist  in 
every  bosom  when  men  and  women 
who  commit  sin  come  and  confess 
their  sins  and  are  humble  and  con- 
trite. When  Latter-day  Saints  hear 
such  things,  there  is  a  feeling  of  pity 
wells  up  in  their  hearts,  and  their 
souls  overflow  with  sympathy,  and 
they  say,  "Yes,  yes,  we'll  forgive  you, 
and  we'll  try  and  forget  all  about  it. 
Go  on,  dear  brother,  (or  sister)  repent, 
and  do  better  from  this  time  forward, 
and  we  will  give  you  our  faith  and 
prayers."  That  is  the  way  Saints 
should  feel  when  their  brethren  and 
sisters  commit  sin  and  repent    of  it. 

The  Lord,  also,  is  moved  with  com- 
passion; the  angels  are  moved  with 
mercy  and  sympathy;  and  the  Lord 
Jesus,  who  stands  as  a  Mediator  be- 
tween our  Father  and  ourselves,  is 
filled  with  compassion  for  His 
brethren  and  sisters  when  they  com- 
mit sin  and  repent  of  it.  Oh!  all 
heaven  is  moved  by  the  repentance  of 
a  sinner,  and  stirred  up  with  a  desire 
to  help  the  poor  creature  who  con- 
fesses his  sins  and  repents  truly  and 
sincerely. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  now  that  this 
Conference  is  drawing  to  a  close,  let 
us  endeavor  to  profit  by  the  teachings 
we  have  heard.  I  have  been  gladdened 


during  this  Conference  over  one  thing. 
I  believe  the  nomination  of  the  two 
brethren  who  are  appointed  to  fill  the 
vacancies  in  the  quorum  of  the 
Apostles  came  as  a  surprise  to  the 
community,  if  not  to  the  Saints.  1 
have  not  seen  what  the  papers  have 
said  at  different  times;  but  I  un- 
derstand they  have  been  picking  and 
choosing  and  mentioning  the  name 
of  every  man  that  is  at  all  conspicu- 
ous in  the  Church,  as  likely  to  be 
chosen.  It  is  evident  that  the  Lord 
did  not  tell  them  anything.  Since 
these  names  were  presented  yester- 
day I  have  had  several  come  to  me 
and  tell  me  that  the  Lord  had  re- 
vealed to  them  that  these  men  would 
be  chosen.  One  man  said  to  me  that 
last  April,  when  they  were  presenting 
the  names  of  the  authorities  in  the 
Stake  to  which  he  belongs,  it  was 
made  manifest  to  him  that  Matthias 
F.  Cowley  would  be  one  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles.  He  said  so  to  his  com- 
panions, and  told  them  to  write  it 
down,  as  it  would  be  fulfilled.  Sev- 
eral instances  of  this  kind  have  come 
to  my  knowledge.  I  have  not  mingled 
much  with  the  people,  because  wo 
have  been  so  busy;  but  I  have  been 
gratified  beyond  expression  to  learn 
from  these  instances  that  the  Lord  is  a 
God  of  revelation,  not  to  the  First 
Presidency  and  the  Twelve  alone,  but 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people 
have  the  spirit  of  revelation.  It  is  a 
blessed  thing  to  live  in  an  age  when 
God  reveals  His  mind  and  will  to 
those  who  seek  for  it.  It  is  not  al- 
ways that  we  have  everything  told  to 
us;  but  when  we  want  to  get  light 
upon  any  subject,  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided the  way.  He  is  a  God  that  hears 
and  answers  prayers.  He  does  not 
conceal  Himself.  I  am  thankful  that 
we  are  not  as  Israel  was  in  the  days 
of  Elijah.  The  prophets  of  Baal  cried 
aloud,  jumped  upon  their  altar,  cut 
themselves  with  knives,  and  indulged 
in  all  sorts  of  extravagances  to  reach 
the  ear  of  their  god,  while  Elijah 
taunted  them  and  said, perhaps  he  was 
asleep  or  had  gone  on  a  journey. 
That  is  the  condition  of  the  world  to 
a  great  extent.  I  speak  this  without 
intending  any  disrespect,  because 
there  are  just  as  good  people  in  the 
world  as  we  are;  but  I  say  it  because 


7o 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


there  is  no  revelation  among-  them, 
nor  any  idea  that  it  can  be  obtained, 
and  therefore,  men  call  in  vain  when 
they  do  call;  though  there  are  honest 
souls  who  believe  the  Lord  will  hear 
their  prayers,  and  whom  He  does 
hear.  When  the  Prophet  Elijah  called 
our  God  heard  and  answered  him. 
So  it  is  with  this  Church.  It  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  when  its 
members  call  upon  God  they  get 
revelation  from  God,  according  to  their 
faith  and  diligence  and  the  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  them.  As  I  said 
last  night  at  the  Priesthood  meeting, 
there  has  never  been  one  minute  since 
this  Church  was  organized  that  it  has 
been  destitute  of  the  knowledge  of  God 
and  the  voice  of  God.  The  will  of  God 
could  be  obtained;  it  has  been  ob- 
tained. And  the  Church  will  never  be 
left  without  it.  The  authority  is  in 
the  Church  to  lead  it,  as  Brother 
Reynolds  said.  The  angels  and  heads 
of  dispensations  that  have  been  upon 
the  earth  have  come  and  restored  the 
keys  they  held  and  bestowed  them 
upon  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  and 
he  sealed  them  upon  the  Apostles. 
The  same  authority,  the  same  keys, 
the  same  power  that  had  been  con- 
ferred upon  him,  he  transmitted  in 
their  fullness  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
In  this  way  the  keys  and  that  au- 
thority have  been  preserved  pure  and 
in  the  fullness  of  their  power  on  the 
earth,  and  are  here  in  the  midst  of 
this  people.  In  this  respect  we  stand 
at  the  head. 

It  is  written  that  the  ten  tribes  will 
come  forth  from  the  north  country, 
and  they  will  come  here  to  those  who 
hold  the  keys  in  this  dspensation,  to 
receive  the  blessings  they  do  not  have 
themselves.  Here  is  Ephraim,  and 
Ephraim  holds  the  keys.  The  ten 
tribes  are  there,  but  the  authority  to 
hold  the  keys  is  here.  God  is  doing  a 
mighty  work  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  unknown  to  us  to  a  great 
extent.  Powerful  a.gencies  are  operat- 
ing under  His  direction  in  all  the  na- 
tions, to  bring  to  pass  the  fulfillment 
of  His  designs.  While  this  is  all  going 
on,  and  we  may  seem  only  like  a  little 
handful  in  the  midst  of  the  millions  of 
the  earth,  here  in  the  midst  of  this 
people  the  authority  is  held  which  God 
recognizes,  and  here  are  the  keys  by 
which  the  purposes  of  God  will  be  ful- 


filled. '  All  that  has  been  spoken  by 
the  mouths  of  the  holy  Prophets  will 
be  accomplished.  There  will  be  a  high- 
way cast  up;  the  ten  tribes  will  re- 
turn, and  they  will  come  to  the  chil- 
dren of  Ephraim  to  receive  their  bless- 
ings. 

There  is  everything,  therefore,  to 
encourage  us.  Let  us  live  so  that  we 
shall  be  heirs  and  recipients  of  these 
great  blessings.  Let  us  endeavor  to 
have  our  families  live  so  that  we 
shall  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the 
Lord;  that  we  will  not  listen  to  Satan, 
that  our  children  will  turn  a  deaf  ear 
to  his  persuasions,  and  that  we  our- 
selves will  set  them  the  example;  that 
we  will  teach  them  to  remember,  above 
all  things,  to  never  commit  any  sin 
that  will  cause  them  to  lose  their 
standing  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 

God  bless  you  all,  bless  everyone 
who  has  attended  this  Conference,  and 
fill  us  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  help 
us  to  do  right.  God  bless  our  beloved 
President  Wilford  Woodruff.  God  be 
praised!  He  has  heard  the  prayers  of 
His  servants  and  people  in  His  behalf, 
that  his  life  might  be  preserved,  and 
he  is  with  us  today,  filled  with  a 
vigor — considering  his  age  and  his 
sickness — that  is  really  astonishing. 
God  bless  him,  and  bless  all  that  per- 
tains to  him,  and  preserve  him.  We 
would  like  to  have  him  live  forever,  if 
we  could.  God  bless  you  all,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRE  ST.  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 

CLOSING  REMARKS. 

It  is  time  to  close  this  conference; 
but  before  closing  I  want  to  say  a  few 
words  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have 
attended  conferences  under  the  presi- 
dency of  Joseph  Smith  during  his  life 
time,  from  1833;  I  have  attended  con- 
ferences under  President  Brigham 
Young  nearly  forty  years,  from  the 
time  of  the  death  of  Joseph  Smith  un- 
til his  own  death;  I  have  attended 
conferences  under  the  presidency  of 
John  Taylor,  and  I  have  attended 
conferences  as  President  of  the  Church 
myself  since  that  period.  That  re- 
sponsibility has  rested  upon  me,  and 
rests  upon  me  today.  Sixty-four 
years  of  my  life  have  passed  away  as 
a  member  of  this  Church.  I  do  not 
know  that  I  shall  ever  address  you 


PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 


71 


again;  I  cannot  tell  anything  about 
this;  but  I  feel  strongly  impressed  to 
say  a  few  words  to  you  upon  prin- 
ciple, although  it  is  late. 

I  want  these  Latter-day  Saints  to 
lay  to  heart  what  has  been  said  to  you 
by  the  Apostles  and  Elders  who  have 
spoken  at  this  Conference.  I  want 
to  say  another  thing.  I  prophesy,  in 
the  name  of  Israel's  God,  the  day  has 
come  when  the  mouths  of  Wilford 
Woodruff,  George  Q.  Cannon,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  and  these  Twelve  Apostles, 
should  not  be  closed  because  of  the 
opinions  of  the  children  of  men.  There 
have  been  feelings  that  these  men 
holding  high  positions — the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  Presidency — should  say 
nothing  about  politics.  I  want  to  say 
to  you  here,  the  day  has  come  when 
God  Almighty  requires  at  your  hands 
to  unite  together  in  your  temporal 
business,  and  in  your  politics,  so  far 
as  it  is  wisdom.  I  do  not  care  whether 
a  man  is  a  Republican  or  a  Democrat, 
in  that  he  is  free;  but  it  is  your  duty 
to  unite  in  electing  good  men  to  gov- 
ern and  control  your  cities,  your  local 
affairs,  and  I  will  state  that  when  you 
do  not  do  this  you  are  losers  of  the 
blessings  of  Almighty  God.  I 
want  to  tell  you  this  upon 
this  occasion.  My  mouth  shall 
not  be  closed  upon  these 
principles.  I  know  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  unite  together 
in  your  local  affairs,  the  election  of 
your  city  councils,  the  election  of  men 
to  act  for  you  in  the  affairs  of  state. 
Lay  aside  your  extremes  in  democ- 
racy and  republicanism,  as  far  as  is 
wise  in  that  matter,  and  in  other  than 
local   matters    as    Latter-day  Saints 


unite  together  within  your  party  lines 
and  appoint  good  men.  When  you  do 
that,  God  will  bless  you.  You  won't 
all  be  taxed  to  death  and  lose  your 
property,  if  you  will  appoint  good  men 
and  pursue  this  course. 

I  take  the  liberty,  as  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  of  making  these  remarks.  No 
matter  what  the  feelings  of  men  may 
be  towards  me;  I  shall  not  stay  in  this 
country  very  long.  But  I  realize 
very  well  that  this  people  are  groaning 
under  poverty,  under  affliction,  under 
taxation,  and  in  positions  that  they 
ought  not  to  be  if  they  would. only  unite 
together  and  do  their  duty.  And  this 
idea  of  a  person  being  afraid  of  some- 
body because  he  is  a  Democrat  or  a 
Republican,  it  is  all  wrong.  I  feel 
like  saying  to  you,  as  the  President 
of  this  Church,  and  do  state,  that  it 
is  your  duty  to  unite  together  and  ap- 
point good  men  to  act  in  every  capac- 
ity for  the  public  welfare.  Therefore 
let  us  do  our  duty,  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord  our  God,  and  leave  the 
consequences  with  Him.  "Do  what  ic 
right,  let  the  consequences  follow;" 
which  may  God  grant,  for  Christ's 
sake.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  The 
nations  bow  to  Satan's  thrall. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John 
Smith. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


The  stenographic  work  in  taking  the 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done 
by  Arthur  Winter  and  F.  B.  Barker. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual  General  Conference. 


The  semi-annual  meeting  of  the  Des- 
eret  Sunday  School  Union  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Sun- 
day, October  3,  1897,  at  7  p.  m.  In  ad- 
dition to  the  general  superintendency, 
there  were  present  nearly  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Union  board,  many  leading 
Church  authorities  and  a  large  repre- 
sentation of  earnest  Sunday  school 
workers.  The  meeting  was  called  to 
order  by  Assistant  General  Superin- 
tendent George  Goddard. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang:  "Hark! 
Listen  to  the  Trumpeters." 

Elder  George  Teasdale  offered  the 
opening  prayer  and  the  choir  sang, 
"Glory  and  Love  to  Men  of  Old." 

Elder  John  M.  Whitaker,  the  gen- 
eral secretary,  called  the  roll  of 
Stakes,  and  presented  the  general  Sun- 
day school  authorities,  who  were 
unanimously  sustained  as  follows: 
George  Q.  Cannon,  general  superin- 
tendent; George  Goddard,  first  assis- 
tant superintendent;  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
second  assistant  superintendent; George 
Reynolds,  general  treasurer; as  mem- 
bers of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board,  George  Q.  Cannon, 
George  Goddard,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
George  Reynolds,  Thos.  C.  Griggs,  Jos. 
W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Richards, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Jos.  M.  Tanner,  George  Teasdale,  Hugh 
J.  Cannon  and  Andrew  Kimball. 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  stated  that  it  was  due  to 
Elder  John  C.  Cutler  that  an  explana- 
tion be  made  as  to  the  reason  why 
his  name  was  not  presented  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Union  Board.  Elder  Cutler 
has  a  great  many  duties  to  perform, 
and  has  recently  been  called  to  the 
Bishopric  of  one  of  the  wards;  and  this, 
with  many  other  labors,  prevents  his 
attending  to  the  duties  of  a  member 
of  the  board  and  it  was  therefore,  at 
his  request,  partially,  and  with  great 
reluctance  on  the  part  of  the  Union 
Board,  that  he  was  allowed  to  with- 
draw. But  it  is  expected  that  he  will 
remain     an    honorary    member,  and 


when  opportunities  present  themselves, 
attend  the  Sunday  school  conferences. 
Brother  Andrew  Kimball  has  been  se- 
lected to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by 
Brother  Cutler's  resignation.  Elder 
John  M.  "Whitaker  then  read  the  fol- 
lowing circular  letter: 

"Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 

April  1,  1897. 
To  Presidents  of  Stakes,  Bishops,  and 
Stake  Superintendents  of  Sunday 
Schools: 

Dear  Brethren. — Members  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
have  had  the  pleasure,  during  the  past 
two  years,  of  attending  annual  Sun- 
day school  conferences  in  the  thirty- 
seven  Stakes  of  Zion.  During  these 
visits  they  have  had  much  satisfaction 
in  meeting  with  several  thousand  offi- 
cers and  teachers,  who  are  faithful 
fellow-laborers  in  the  great  Sunday 
school  cause.  The  great  majority  of 
them,  we  are  pleased  to  learn,  are  ob- 
servers of  the  Word  of  "Wisdom.  God 
bless  them. 

We  indulge  the  hope  that  the  time  is 
not  far  distant  when  it  can  be  truth- 
fully said,  that  all  the  teachers  of  our 
hundred  thousand  children  are  not 
only  keeping  and  teaching  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  but  other  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  such  as  honoring  the  Sabbath 
day,  sustaining  the  Priesthood,  and 
observing  the  law  of  tithing,  etc. 

To  aid  you  in  attaining  so  desirable 
a  consummation,  we  suggest  that 
when  vacancies  occur  in  any  of  our 
Sunday  school  organizations,  these 
vacancies  be  filled,  as  far  as  prac- 
ticable, by  those  who  practice  and 
teach  the  above  mentioned  principles. 

By  observing  this  simple  and  con- 
siderate method,  glorious  results  will 
soon  follow,  without  the  least  dis- 
turbance of  any  of  our  present  co- 
laborers.  What  a  delightful  begin- 
ning of  the  millennial  reign  of  our 
Savior  on  the  earth  it  will  be  for  the 
scores  of  thousands  of  our  Sunday 
school  teachers  and  children  to  be- 
come practical  observers  of  the  above 
named  principles!  Let  us  earnestly 
strive  to  fortify  our  children  to  resist 
the  many  temptations  and  allurements 
of  the  enemy. 

Tour  Brethren, 
GEORGE  Q.  CANNON, 
GEORGE  GODDARD, 
KARL     G.  MAESER. 
General    Superintendency  of  Sunday 
Schools." 


DESERET  SLNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


73 


Assistant  Supt.  George  Goddard  said 
he  remembered  forty-eight  years  ago 
when  all  the  Sunday  school  children  be- 
longing to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
could  be  accommodated  in  a  room  lOx 
15;  now  it  would  require  eight  such 
tabernacles  as  the  one  in  which  the 
meeting  was  being  held  to  accommo- 
date all  who  were  earnest,  faithful 
Sunday  school  workers.  He  con- 
sidered this  a  wonderful  change,  but 
looked  forward  with  bright  anticipa- 
tion for  a  greater  increase  in  the  same 
length  of  time  in  the  future.  He 
spoke  of  the  pleasure  members  of  the 
board  had  in  attending  the  thirty-six 
annual  Sunday  school  Stake  confer- 
ences since  April  last,  and  noted  with 
pleasure  the  rapid  growth  and  interest 
in  this  work.  To  further  help  the  offi- 
cers and  teachers  he  referred  to  the 
following  list  of  questions,  regarding 
the  conducting  of  Sunday  schools, 
that  have  been  sent  to  each 
school  for  their  guidance,  and  trusted 
that  close  attention  would  be  paid  to 
them  by  all,  in  attaining  the 
object  so  much  desired.  Elder 
Goddard  called  attention  to  the 
importance  of  using  the  little  Sun- 
day school  hymn  book,  and  of  all  tak- 
ing part  in  all  the  songs  of  the  school. 
He  stated  that  Elder  John  M.  Whit- 
aker,  who  had  been  a  faithful  secre- 
tary now  for  about  nine  years,  had 
been  called  to  take  a  mission  to  the 
Eastern  States,  and  all  communica- 
tions for  the  Union  board  should  for 
the  present  be  sent  to  General  Secre- 
tary Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Board. 

LIST  OF  QUESTIONS. 

"Superintendents  will  please  report 
on  the  following  questions  at  the  an- 
nual Sunday  school  conference  of  their 
Stake  in  the  year  1898: 

Do  your  school  exercises  begin  at 
10  a.  m.? 

Have  most  of  the  children  Sunday 
school  hymn  books? 

Do  all  the  children  rise  and  sing  in 
concert? 

Is  the  Sacrament  properly  admin- 
istered ? 

Have  all  the  children  over  eight 
years  old  been  baptized? 

Is  your  school  properly  graded? 

Do  each  of  your  teachers  own  q 
treatise  and  study  it? 


How  often  do  you  hold  teachers' 
meetings? 

Do  all  the  officers  pay  tithing,  and 
is  it  taught  in  the  Sunday  school? 

Do  all  abstain  from  tea,  coffee,  to- 
bacco and  strong  drink? 

How  many  of  the  school  officers  take 
the  Juvenile  Instructor,  and  are  there 
any  for  the  use  of  the  school? 

Do  you  strictly  honor  Nickel  Day? 

Do  you  observe  the  Monthly  Past, 
and  is  it  taught? 

Does  your  school  use  the  Leaflets? 

Do  you  try  to  get  all  the  children  in 
your  ward  enrolled,  and  look  after  ab- 
sentees? 

Do  you  sustain  the  general  and  local 
Church  authorities  by  your  votes  and 
acts? 

How  many  are  there  in  your  ward 
who  should,  but  do  not,  attend  Sun- 
day school? 

How  many  names  have  you  enrolled 
on  your  record? 

What  is  your  average  attendance  of 
teachers  and  pupils?" 

Elder  George  Reynolds  called  atten- 
tion to  the  distribution  of  Nickel  En- 
velopes to  be  used  on  the  31st  of  Octo- 
ber this  year  in  collecting  the  "Nickel 
Fund."  If  enough  had  not  been  sent  to 
the  schools,  by  application  to  the  secre- 
tary, they  could  have  the  number  re- 
quired. It  was  desirable,  he  said,  that 
this  fund  be  sent  immediately  after  its 
collection,  in  the  most  convenient  form 
to  him,  as  general  treasurer,  but  not  in 
the  envelopes  as  some  had  done  in 
the  past.  In  regard  to  the  leaflets,Elder 
Reynolds  stated  that  thirty-two  num- 
bers had  already  been  sent  to  the 
schools,  and  the  other  eight,  making 
the  forty  promised  for  1897,  would 
soon  be  sent.  These  were  on  Bible 
subjects.  He  regretted  that  in  some 
schools  no  use  was  made  of  these  im- 
portant lessons;  in  others  they  were 
used  perhaps  once  and  laid  around, 
wasted,  or  destroyed.  He  urged  that 
they  be  taken  great  care  of,  used  as 
they  are  intended,  and  much  good 
would  follow. 

It  had  been  deemed  wise,  should 
the  authorities  of  any  of  the 
Stakes  prefer  to  have  their  annual 
Sunday  school  conference  between 
now  and  April,  1898,  to  so  hold  them. 
The  Stakes  desiring  this  should  at 
once  notify  the  board,  and  if  on  the 
dates  set,  members  of  the  board  can 


74 


DESERET  SbNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


attend,  the  Stake  authorities  will  be 
promptly  notified.  He  also  called  at- 
tention to  the  importance  of  every 
school  at  least,  and  as  many  officers 
and  teachers  as  possible,  taking  the 
official  organ  of  the  Sunday  school, 
the  Juvenile  Instructor;  for,  on  many 
occasions.questions  had  been  asked  and 
information  sought  by  letter,  that  had 
been  fully  answered  in  that  paper. 

Elder  T.  C.  Griggs  called  attention 
to  the  following  items: 
.  First— The  Stake  Sunday  school 
Visiting  Book,  in  which  visits 
to  various  Sunday  schools  of 
their  respective  Stakes  are  to  be  ful- 
ly recorded,  should  be  brought  to  the 
annual  Sunday  school  conferences  to 
be  inspected  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  board;  and  at  the 
close  of  the  present  year,  should 
be  fully  made  up  and  sent  to  the 
General  Secretary  to  be  examined  by 
the  board. 

Second— The  necessity  of  Stake 
superintendents  carefully  looking  after 
the  organization  of  branch  Sunday 
schools  in  remote  parts  of  their  Stakes 
and  fostering  the  same,  thus  enabling 
all  the  Sunday  school  children  to  at- 
tend without  going  too  far  from  their 
homes.  These  branch  schools  might 
be  organized  and  maintained  for  a 
time  as  a  part  of  the  ward  school;  and 
one  of  the  school  superintendency 
of  that  school  could  attend  each  Sun- 
day and  aid  in  the  conduct  of  the 
branch  school  until  it  is  able  to  take 
care  of  itself. 

Third— The  questions  and  answers 
on  General  Church  Authorities  should 
be  carefully  studied  and  made  a  special 
feature  of  the  1898  annual  Sunday 
school  Stake  conferences. 

Elder  John  Robinson  sang  the  solo, 

"Grant  us,  Oh  Lord,  Thy  Peace." 

Elder  Jos.  W.  Summerhays  alluded 
to  the  importance  to  each  Sunday 
school  obtaining  one  of  the  New  Bible 
charts,  attention  to  which  had  al- 
ready been  called  by  a  cir- 
cular to  each  school.  Regarding 
the  Book  of  Mormon  Chart  No. 
2,  he  stated  that  it  was  now  being 
printed,  and  would  shortly  be  ready 
for  distribution.  One  copy  will  be  sent 
free  to  each  school. 

Assistant  General  Superintendent 
Karl  G.  Maeser  stated  that  in  visit- 
ing the  various  annual  Sunday  school 


conferences  during  the  present  year, 
the  members  of  the  Union  board  found 
a  lack  of  comprehension  in  class  ex- 
ercises rendered  on  such  occasions. 
It  was  intended  that  at  these  gather- 
ings the  very  best  class  work  in  the 
Stake  should  take  part  so  that  others 
teaching  the  same  department  could 
profit  by  the  exercise;  and  he  sug- 
gested to  Stake  superintendents,  as 
they  visit  the  various  schools,  to  note 
the  best  class  work  done  in  the  vari- 
ous departments,  best  leaflet  exercises, 
singing,  etc.,  and  when  preparing  a 
program  for  the  coming  annual  Sun- 
day school  conferences  make  it  up 
from  these.  For  example,  a  primary 
exercise  from  one  school,  a  first  inter- 
mediate department  exercise  from  an- 
other, etc.,  having  the  best  in  every 
case,  that  others  teaching  the  same  de- 
partments may  be  benefited. 

Elder  Maeser  recommended  that  not 
more  than  eight  or  ten  at  most  from 
these  representative  classes  be  se- 
lected to  render  the  exercise  at  the 
conferences,  and  those  selected  should 
be  drilled  to  speak  clearly  and  dis- 
tinctly so  that  all  might  hear.  He  sug- 
gested further  that  arrangements 
might  be  made  by  the  ward  superin- 
tendents, with  the  Bishops,  to  convey 
those  thus  selected  to  the  conference, 
and  believed  if  this  plan  were  followed, 
the  annual  Sunday  school  conferences 
would  accomplish  one  of  the  special 
objects  of  their  establishment,  viz.: 
bringing  together  the  best  class  work 
in  the  Stake  for  the  benefit  of  all  in- 
terested. 

PRE  ST-  GEORGE  Q  CANNON 
There  has  been  a  small  book  pub- 
lished by  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  called  "The  S.  S.  Treatise."  I 
find  on  page  seventy-four  (74)  in  that 
little  work  suggestions  concerning  the 
lessons  to  be  taught  to  the  Theological 
class,  which  I  now  read: 

"In  treating  of  the  call  of  Abraham, 
show  how  the  people  had  fallen  into 
idolatry,  and  the  design  God  had  in 
calling  him  from  his  father's  house." 
The  next  sentence  says:  "Take  up  the 
founders  of  the  Chaldean  and  Egyp- 
tian empires.  Follow  the  growth  and 
decay  of  these  and  succeeding  na- 
tions as  you  proceed." 

Our  attention  has  been  called  to 
the  fact  that  in  some  of  the  Sunday 
schools,    there  is    considerable  atten- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


75 


tion  devoted  to  questions  like  these  I 
have  read — "Take  up  the  founders  of 
the  Chaldean  and  Egyptian  empires. 
Follow  the  growth  and  decay  of  these 
and  succeeeding  nations  as  you  pro- 
ceed." 

I  have  been  told  that  in  some  of  our 
schools  this  has  been  followed  to 
a  very  great  extent  and  far  beyond 
that  which  was  designed  in  the  get- 
ting up  of  this  Treatise.  I  might 
read  from  page  80 — I  have  just  hap- 
pened to  turn  to  that.  I  see  here  is  a 
subject:  "The  wars  between,  and 
persecutions  of  the  Catholics  and 
Protestants  by  each  other."  And  then 
a  little  afterwards,  "Give  a  sketch  of 
the  United  States  government,  etc." 
^  Some  of  our  teachers  are  pleased  to 
dwell  considerably  upon  the  history 
of  these  different  nations,  and  the  re- 
sult is  that  some  of  the  lessons  are 
so  devoted  to  what  may  be  called  pro- 
fane history,  that  is,  ancient  his- 
tory, that  there  is  very  little 
said  about  the  Gospel,  and  very  little 
said  about  the  Lord. 

OBJECT  OF  SUNDAY  SCHOOLS. 

I  think  this  is  an  error,  and  such 
lessons  as  these  should  not  be  carried 
too  far.  Our  Sunday  schools  are  for 
the  purpose  of  teaching  our  children 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  We  must 
not  make  our  Sunday  schools  too  much 
like  district  schools.  That  is  not  the 
purpose.  The  Sunday  schools  are  to  be 
entirely  devoted  to  the  teaching  of  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  We  want  to 
make  Latter-day  Saints  of  our  chil- 
dren. If  I  send  a  child  to  Sunday  school 
I  want  that  child  taught  the  Gospel. 
He  can  read  and  learn  history,  and 
a  great  many  other  things  outside  of 
the  Sunday  school,  that  ought  not  to 
be  taught  in  the  Sunday  school.  In 
the  Sunday  schools  we  should  confine 
our  labors  to  the  object  for  which  they 
have  been  established. 

I  was  speaking  today  in  our  meeting 
of  the  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
that  I  am  averse  to  the  multiplication 
of  rules,  or  of  anything  that  will  fet- 
ter the  Sunday  school  teachers.  We 
want  to  teach  the  children  the  simple 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  Care  should 
be  taken  by  the  superintendency  to  see 
that  this  is  done,  and  that  the 
time  of  the  Sunday  school  is 
not    occupied    in    teaching  subjects, 


the  knowledge  of  which  can  be 
obtained  outside  of  the  Sunday 
school.  I  wish  this  could  be  impressed 
upon  the  minds  of  our  superintend- 
ents and  teachers.  The  Sunday  school 
is  a  school,  as  I  have  said,  and  as  you 
all  ought  and  do  understand,  for 
the  purpose  of  giving  our  chil- 
dren instructions  in  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel  to  indoctrinate  them 
in  its  principles,  and  if,  in 
the  schools,  we  give  them 
any  history  at  all,  it  should 
be  the  history  of  our  Church, 
and  the  dealings  of  God  with  His 
people;  that  is,  from  a  sacred  stand- 
point, a  religious  standpoint. 

Of  course,  information  concerning 
the  history  of  peoples  can  be  given, 
or  brought  to  bear  occasionally,  illus- 
trating God's  dealings  with  mankind 
to  prepare  the  way  for  the  carrying 
out  of  His  work.  This  is  proper,  but 
it  is  not  proper  to  go  into  extended 
lessons  upon  secular  history. 

INTERRUPTIONS  IN  SUNDAY  SCHOOLS. 

Some  time  ago  I  was  visiting  one  of 
our  quarterly  Stake  conferences,  and 
I  found  a  good  many  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  had  come  from  afar, 
driven  long  distances,  to  be  present  at 
the  meetings,  and  the  fore- 
noon, according  to  instructions, 
was  devoted  to  the  Sunday 
school.  The  meeting  house  was  not 
large  enough  to  admit  of  the  gather- 
ing together  of  the  children  and 
Saints  who  had  come  from  a  distance. 
It  seemed  too  bad  that  those  who 
come  such  distances  should  have  to 
wait  until  the  afternoon  meeting  in 
order  to  get  instructions,  and  I  sug- 
gested that  we  should  meet  at  nine 
o'clock  with  the  Sunday  schools,  and 
hold  the  meeting  say  until  half  past 
ten,  and  dismiss  and  allow  the  Saints  to 
come  into  the  meeting  house  and  for 
the  conference  to  then  be  opened.  The 
object  in  doing  this  was  not  to  inter- 
fere with  the  Sunday  school,  but  to 
prevent  too  much  interference  with 
the  conference  of  the  Stake.  I 
thought  both  purposes  could  be  an- 
swered by  such  an  arrangement. 

In  consequence  of  this  it  was  sug- 
gested that  the  Sunday  schools  in  the 
Stakes  should  meet  at  nine  a.  m.  in- 
stead of  ten,  where  the  Stake  quarter- 
ly   conference    was    to  be  held,  and 


76 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


where  the  building  was  not  large 
enough  to  accommodate  the  adults  ar 
well  as  the  children.  This,  I  believe, 
has  been  carried  out  to  some  extent. 
But  lately  we  have  heard  that  other 
conferences  have  been  held,  and  the 
Sunday  schools  have  been  notified  that 
they  could  meet  at  9  a.  m.  instead  of 
10  a.  m. 

Now  it  is  a  rule  that  has  prevailed, 
and  it  has  been  given  out  by  the 
First  Presidency,  that  the  Sunday 
morning  should  be  devoted  to  the  Sun- 
day schools,  and  we  do  not  want  this 
arrangement,  made  for  the  Stake 
quarterly  conferences,  to  be  made  per- 
manent with  anything  else.  In  other 
words,  we  do  not  want  the  Sunday 
schools  to  be  changed  from  time  to 
time  to  suit  the  convenience  of  other 
organizations.  Therefore,  we  would 
like  it  to  be  understood  by  all  superin- 
tendents of  Sunday  schools,  that  10 
o'clock  is  the  hour  for  the  meeting  of 
the  Sunday  schools,  excepting  in  in- 
stances of  the  Stake  quarterly  confer- 
ences as  I  have  mentioned. 

It  is  found  by  depriving,  our  chil- 
dren from  attending  the  Sunday 
school,  that  it  retards  the  progress 
of  the  school,  and  there  have  been 
remonstrances  to  the  Union  board  in 
relation  to  this  matter,  requesting 
that  the  Sunday  schools  be  not  inter- 
fered with  by  funerals,  or  other  dif- 
ferent meetings  held  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing. Sunday  inorning  has  been  as- 
signed to  the  Sunday  schools,  and 
should  not  be  interfered  with. 

Another  point  in  connection  with 
the  Sunday  school  organization. 
There  is  a  good  deal  of  zeal  being 
manifested  at  the  time,  very  praise- 
worthy zeal,  in  the  organization  of  the 
M.  I.  A.  throughout  the  Stakes  of 
Zion.  It  has  come  to  us  that  in  some 
instances  the  local  officers  have  taken 
Sunday  school  workers  out  of  the 
Sunday  schools  and  appointed  them  to 
labor  in  the  M.  I.  A.  "We  do  not  wish 
in  the  least — I  do  not — to  curtail  the 
influence,  efficiency  and  good  work 
being  done  by  organizations  so  potent 
for  good  as  are  the  M.  I.  A.;  but  we 
do  not  wish,  and  it  is  not  proper,  that 
one  organization  should  interfere 
with  another.  The  Sunday  school 
workers  should  be  permitted  to  work 
in  their  respective  schools  and  ought 


not  to  be  taken  from  their  work.  And 
on  the  other  hand  the  Sunday  school 
officers  should  not  in  any  manner  im- 
pair the  efficiency  or  good  work  be- 
ing done  by  the  M.  I.  A.  Both  organ- 
izations can  run  parallel  and  perform 
their  labors  and  not  interfere  in  the 
least  with  one  another.  Upon  this 
point  I  think  we  should  all  agree,  and 
ought  to  be  very  careful  in  our  move- 
ments so  as  to  preserve  good  feeling 
and  to  repress  anything  that  would 
cause  a  spirit  that  is  not  of  the  Lord 
to  arise.  We  are  all  laboring  for  the 
same  purpose,  speaking  in  general 
terms — and  we  should  rejoice  in  the 
prosperity  and  success  of  every  one  ot 
these  organizations — the  Primary, 
Sunday  School,  Relief  Society  and 
everything  of  this  character.  I  do 
not  know  another  people  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  so  much  organized 
as  we  are.  We  have  organized  gath- 
erings covering  the  life  of  the  people 
from  infancy  to  old  age,  and 
we  should  do  all  in  our  power  to 
maintain  their  efficiency,  and  to  pro- 
mote them  and  aid  them  in  doing  the 
good  work  designed  for  them. 

INFLUENCE  OF  SUNDAY  SCHOOLS. 

I  am  greatly  pleased  with  the  in- 
terest manifested  this  evening  by  so 
large  a  congregation  attending  this 
meeting.  We  have  cause  to  be  very 
thankful  to  the  Lord  for  that  which 
He  is  doing  in  the  training  of  our 
children.  I  have  said  before  it  was  a 
most  timely  organization — that  of  the 
Sunday  school  in  our  midst — the  or- 
ganization of  a  system  by  which  they 
can  be  carried  on  systematically  and 
thoroughly.  There  was  perhaps  at  one 
time  some  doubt  and  disinclination  on 
the  part  of  different  persons  in  the 
Stakes  and  wards  regarding  Sunday 
schools.  Some  officers  did  not  care  to 
attend  the  Sunday  schools, and  thought 
it  was  interfering  with  other 
matters,  and  other  organizations.  But 
that  feeling  has  gone.  I  do  not  think 
there  is  a  Bishop  anywhere  now  or 
any  other  officer  who  is  brought  in 
contact  with  the  people  who  does  not 
feel  pleased  and  thankful  that  there 
is  such  an  organization  as  the  Sunday 
school.  It  must  be  a  help  to  the 
Bishops  and  to  the  teachers  and  to 
all  the  quorums  and  different  officers 
— the  High  Priests,    Seventies,  Elders, 


DESERET  SUNDAY    SCHOOL  UNION. 


77 


Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons 
throughout  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion. 
Consider  the  condition  we  would  be 
in  if  these  schools  were  not  organized! 
We  would  have  our  country  filled  with 
denominational  Sunday  schools- 
schools  taught  by  those  who  do  not 
believe  in  our  doctrines,  whose  aim 
it  would  be  to  propagate  their  doc- 
trines and  destroy  the  faith  of  our 
children  in  the  Gospel  as  we  under- 
stand it.  But  with  this  thorough 
organization,  as  Brother  Griggs  has 
told  you  this  evening,  in  discussing 
how  we  may  become  more  thoroughly 
organized  by  the  establishment  of 
branch  Sunday  schools,  we  can  throw 
safeguards  around  our  children  and 
prevent  them  from  imbibing  unbelief. 

WHAT  SHOULD  BE  TAUGHT. 

I  want  to  say  here  that  there  is  a 
wave  of  unbelief  sweeping  over  the 
land,  and  we  can  feel  the  effects  of 
it  among  us.  The  leading  magazines 
or  the  popular  magazines,  are  filled 
with  ideas  tending  to  unbelief,  scienti- 
fic hypotheses  that  are  designed  to 
destroy  faith  in  the  Bible,  faith  in  the 
creation  of  the  world,  faith  in  the  cre- 
ation of  man,  faith  in  the  origin  of 
man,  and  in  the  existence  of  God.  Now 
these  doctrines  are  being  spread  very 
insidiously.  They  are  being  taught 
in  all  the  universities  and  colleges, 
speaking  generally,  of  the  land,  with 
but  few  exceptions.  There  is  a  gen- 
eration growing  up  who  do  not  be- 
lieve in  the  cardinal  principles  of  the 
Bible  taught  by  our  fathers,  before 
the  Gospel  in  its  fulness  was  revealed. 
These  doctrines  are  being  undermined 
and  it  becomes  the  duty  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints — it  is  the  mission  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints — to  uphold  these  old 
truths  and  doctrines  that  have  come 
down  to  us  from  God  through  the 
ages,  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  our 
children  in  them,  and,  so  far  as  we 
can,  to  neutralize  the  effect  of  these 
false  doctrines  that  are  being  taught. 
And  our  Sunday  schools  are  among 
the  greatest  agencies  to  be  used  for 
this  purpose — the  teaching  of  our 
children  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
and  counteracting  this  dreadful  unbe- 
lief and  darkness  that  is  spreading 
over  the  land.  I  feel  that  this  is  of 
great  importance  to  us.  I  do  not  know 
of  an  organization  today  among  any 
other  people  who  are  in  the  position 


we  are,  that  are  so  well  prepared  to 
counteract  these  things,  because  we 
have  the  books  and  records  that  God 
has  given.  We  have  the  Bible,  but 
not  that  alone.  They  may  indulge  in 
their  "higher  criticism,"  and  tell  us 
that  those  whose  names  are  attached 
to  the  various  books  of  the  Bible  were 
not  the  authors  of  them;  but 
we  have  something  more  sure 
than  all  their  criticism.  The  Book  ot 
Mormon  is  of  divine  origin,  divinely 
translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
God,  and  this  has  come  to  us  by  the 
power  of  God,  and  we  know  it  is  pure. 
It  was  not  translated  by  man's  ability, 
hence  we  have  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophesy,  something  to  base  our  faith 
upon.  We  can  call  upon  these  testi- 
monies because  we  know  they  are 
impregnable  and  cannot  be  destroyed. 
In  addition  to  this  we  have 
the  word  of  God — the  Book  of 
Covenants,  that  has  come  from 
the  Lord  to  us.  It  is  the  word  of  God 
to  us  who  live  now.  Therefore  we  have 
three  witnesses.  They  may  assail  the 
Bible,  as  they  do,  and  endeavor  to 
prove  that  the  writings  attributed  to 
different  men  were  not  written  by 
them.  We  leave  that  to  them.  They 
can  do  as  they  please  with  their  learn- 
ing; we  will  cling  to  the  Bible  because 
we  know  that  whatever  errors  there 
are,  are  the  errors  of  uninspired  men 
who  have  done  the  translating.  But 
they  must  not,  and  they  can  not,  tread 
upon  other  ground  that  we  have.  They 
have  assailed  the  Book  of  Mormon 
from  an  outside  standpoint,  and  claim 
that  it  was  translated,  or  as 
they  say,  written  by  some  one  else 
than  Joseph  Smith.  But  we  have  dis- 
proved that,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon 
comes  to  us  pure,  having  been  trans- 
lated by  divine  power,  and  it  contains 
incontrovertible  internal  evidence  to 
those  who  read  it  and  know  anything 
about  the  power  and  spirit  of  God — iv 
comes  to  them  with  internal  evidences 
of  its  divinity,  and  they  know  it  is 
true.  Therefore  we  have  this,  be- 
sides which  we  have  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  these  three  witnesses 
enable  us  to  occupy  a  different  posi- 
tion from  any  other  religious  denom- 
ination upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 

We  should  consider  and  teach  our 
children  all  these  things  and  fortify 
them  against  the  pernicious  doctrines 


7» 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


being  circulated  and  being  taught  in 
the  institutions  of  learning  in  the  land, 
and  fortify  them  so  that  they  will  not 
imbibe  the  errors  which  will  pass 
away,  for  they  are  not  true.  Of  course 
Yi  the  theories  set  forth  by  scientific 
men  —  some  scientific  men  —  there 
is  some  principle  of  truth. 
Evolution  has  some  truth  connected 
with  it.  But  very  many  of  these 
theories  are  misleading. 

I  felt  that  I  desired  to  say  so  much 
upon  this  subject  to  impress  the  Sun- 


day school  teachers  and  superintend- 
ents with  the  importance  of  confining 
our  Sunday  school  work  to  the  mission 
of  the  Sunday  school,  that  is,  teaching 
our  children  the  principles  of  our  re- 
ligion.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

Choir  sang  "God  of  Israel,  Hear  Our 
Prayer,"  after  which  the  choir  and 
congregation  sang  "Praise  God  from 
Whom  all  Blessings  Flow."  Benedic- 
tion by  Apostle  Anthon    H.  Lund. 

JOHN  M.  WHITAKER, 
General  Secretary  Deseret  S.  S.  Union. 


