EIGHTY-FIFTH 
II  ANNUAL  II 
CONFERENCE 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS 
CHRIST  OF  LATTER- 
DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernade  and  Assembly  Hall, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  4th, 
5th  and  6th,  1915,  with  a  full 
report  of  the  discourses 

Published  by  The  Deseret  News 

25  cents 


m 


New  Books  Recently 
Published 


THE  COMPENDIUM.  New  and  Revised  Edition.  Cloth, 
$1.00.    Leather,  $1.25. 

STORY  AND  PHILOSOPHY  OF  MORMONISM,  by 
Dr.  James  E.  Talmage.  Paper,  25c  postpaid.  Cloth, 
50c  postpaid. 

REIGN  OF  ANTI-CHRIST,  by  J.  M.  Sjodahl.  Paper, 
25c  postpaid.    Cloth,  50c  postpaid. 

SUCCESSION  OF  JOSEPH  III,  by  O.  A.  Murdock, 
Cloth,  50c  postpaid. 

UNCLE  NICK  AMONG  THE  SHOSHONES,  by  E.  N. 
Wilson.    Cloth,  $1.25  net.    Postpaid,  $1.35. 

HOUSE  OF  THE  LORD,  by  Dr.  J.  E.  Talmage.  Cloth, 

$1 .50  postpaid. 

HOLY  LAND,  by  Lydia  Alder.    Cloth,  $1.50  postpaid. 

PIONEER  TRAIL,  by  Alfred  Lambourne.    Cloth,  $1.00. 

A  PLAY  HOUSE,  by  Alfred  Lambourne.  A  Sketch  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Theatre.  Reminiscences  of  the  Scene-Painters 
Gallery,  $1.00. 

AFTER  TWENTY  YEARS,  by  Geo.  W.  Middleton,  M.D. 
A  Disertation  on  the  Philosophy  of  Life  in  narative  form. 
Cloth,  gilt  top,  $1.25.  , 

TEMPLE  ANTHEMS.     For  general  use  by  all  Church 
r  ^Choirs — Vol.  I.    Edited  by  Prof.  Evan  Stephens,  Deseret 
News  proprietors.       Atristically   printed    and  bound. 
Each,  50c;  per  dozen  $4.50;  postage  extra. 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Eighty-Fifth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 


The  Eighty-fifth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10 
a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  4,  1915,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

There  were  present  of  the  Firit 
Presidency,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  and  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose ;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith, 
George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney, David  O.  Ale  Kay,  Anthony  \Y. 
Ivins,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
James  E.  Talmage ;  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  Seymour  B. 
Young,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J. 
Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Jo- 
seph W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H. 
Hart,  and  Levi  Edgar  Young ;  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith; 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  Charles 
W.  Nibley,  Orrin  P.  Miller,  and 
David  A.  Smith;  Assistant  Histor- 
ians Andrew  Jenson,  and  A.  Wm. 
Lund.  There  were  also  a  large  num- 
ber of  Presidents  of  Stakes  with 
their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Mis- 
sions, Bishops  of  Wards,  Patriarchs, 
and  numerous  other  prominent  men 
and   women   representing  various 

HISTORIAN'S 


quorums  and  organizations  of  the 
Church. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  assembly  to  order,  and  an- 
nounced that,  in  consequence  of  the 
over-crowded  condition  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, another  meeting  will  now 
convene  in  the  adjoining  Assembly 
Hall,  under  direction  of  Elder 
Rudger  Clawson. 

The  conference  services  were 
commenced  by  the  choir  singing  the 
hymn : 

Come,    dearest    Lord,    descend  and 
dwell, 

By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 
Then  shall  we  know,  and  taste,  and 
feel 

The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The 
Palms." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

Condition  of  peace  and  spiritual  prog- 
ress in  the  Church. — Our  message 
of  peace  and  salvation  to  mankind. 
— Saints  should  learn  the  truth,  and 
teach  it  to  their  children. — Church 
organization  and  authority  essential. 
— Strife  and  war  deplored,  peace 
prayed  for— Men  urged  to  love  and 
care  for  wives  and  children. — Pre- 
siding Bishopric's  report  of  tithing 
expended,  etc. — Comments  on  de- 
tails of  the  report. 

OFFICE  LIBRARY 


The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  ot  Latter-da?  Saints 


4a.  w  5  o 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  no  doubt  that  many  of  the 
good  people  gathered  here  this 
morning,  not  having  heard,  widl 
wonder  what  has  become  of  the 
great  Tabernacle  organ.  It  may  be 
proper  for  me  to  say  to  you  that  the 
organ  is  undergoing  thorough  re- 
pairs, and  is  in  a  condition  that  it 
can  not  be  used  at  present.  Per- 
haps it  will  not  be  prepared  for  use 
for  several  weeks  to  come.  Since 
the  last  conference  held  in  this  tab- 
ernacle, the  tabernacle  itself  has  un- 
dergone somewhat  extensive  re- 
pairs. A  new  floor  has  been  laid, 
the  seats  have  all  been  renovated, 
repainted,  revarnished,  and  the 
building  put  in  very  excellent  con- 
dition. During  the  process  of  paint- 
ing and  renovating  the  interior  of 
the  building,  it  was  necessary  to 
keep  up  a  high  degree  of  heat  to 
dry  the  paint,  etc.,  to  have  the  build- 
ing ready  for  this  conference.  It 
was  found  that  this  prolonged  heat- 
ing injuriously  affected  some  parts 
of  the  organ,  putting  it  really  out  of 
order  for  the  present.  I  thought  just 
a  word  of  explanation  with  refer- 
ence to  this  matter  might  be  ap- 
propriate at  this  time. 

This  is  the  opening  session  of 
the  eighty-fifth  annual  general  con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel 
very  thankful  indeed  that  I  have 
been  permitted,  with  the  rest  of  you, 
to  be  present  at  the  opening  of  this 
conference,  and  I  hope  that  we  will 
enjoy  a  blessed  time  together,  dur- 
ing the  three  days  that  many,  if  not 
all  of  us,  will  have  the  privilege  of 
assembling  here,  morning  and  af- 
ternoon, to  be  instructed  and  to 
give  instruction  and  to  hear  exhor- 
tation and,  if  necessary,  be  reproved 
as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  direct 
those  who  shall  address  us  from 
time  to  time.    I  am  very  happy,  in- 


deed, under'  the  impressions  that 
weigh  upon  my  mind  with  reference 
to  the  prosperity  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  throughout  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains,  and  in  the  various 
missions  of  the  Church  throughout 
the  world.  Everything  seems  to 
point  to  the  fact,  which  we  hold  in 
our  faith  and  in  our  anticipation, 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  is  still  pursuing 
its  course  peacefully  onward  and  up- 
ward, extending  and  increasing  on 
the  right  hand  and  on  the  left,  and 
all  along  the  front.  It  is  really  un- 
necessary, perhaps,  for  me  to  re- 
peat, in  some  measure,  at  least,  that 
which  has  been  frequently  said  at 
the  opening  of  conferences  of  the 
Church,  that  there  never  has  been  a 
time,  at  least  within  my  remem- 
brance, when  the  Church  was  in  a 
better  condition  spiritually  and  tem- 
porally, than  it  is  today.  I  do  not 
believe  that  there  has  ever  been  a 
time  when  the  organizations  of  the 
various  quorums  of  the  Priesthood 
were  more  nearly  perfect  or  more 
diligent  than  they  are  at  present,  or 
when  the  stakes  of  Zion  were  more 
properly  guarded  and  their  interests 
watched  by  those  who  are  presid- 
ing over  them  than  they  are  today. 
I  believe  that  our  general  and  aux- 
iliary organizations  of  the  Church, 
also  the  standard  organizations  of 
the  Priesthood,  are  performing  their 
duty  quite  as  well  now,  and  I  think 
somewhat  better,  than  at  any  pre- 
vious period  of  the  Church's  his- 
tory. Why  should  it  not  be  so  ?  We 
are  not  "ever  learning  and  never 
coming  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth."  On  the  contrary,  we  are 
ever  learning  and  are  ever  drawing 
nearer  to  a  proper  comprehension 
of  the  truth,  the  duty  and  the  re- 
sponsibility that  devolve  upon  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  who  are  called 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


to  responsible  positions  in  it.  Not 
only  does  this  apply  to  those  mem- 
bers which  are  called  to  act  in  re- 
sponsible positions,  but  it  applies  to 
those  who  may  be  termed  "lay  mem- 
bers," if  we  may  use  such  a  term 
with  reference  to  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Who  is  there,  under  the  circum- 
stances that  exist  around  us,  that  is 
not  growing?  Who  is  there  of  us 
that  is  not  learning  something  day 
by  day?  Who  is  there  of  us  that  is 
not  gaining  experience  as  we  pass 
along,  and  are  attending  to  the  du- 
ties of  membership  in  the  Church, 
and  to  the  duties  of  citizens  of  our 
state,  and  citizens  of  our  great  and 
glorious  nation?  It  seems  to  me 
that  it  would  be  a  very  sad  comment 
upon  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  and  her  people  to 
suppose  for  a  moment  that  we  are  at 
a  standstill,  that  we  have  ceased  to 
grow,  ceased  to  improve  and  to  ad- 
vance in  the  scale  of  intelligence, 
and  in  the  faithful  performance  of 
duty  in  every  condition  in  which  we 
are  placed  as  a  people  and  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

I  am  most  happy,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  say  to  you  that  which 
you  all  know,  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
at  peace  with  itself,  and  it  is  at  peace 
with  all  the  world.  We  have  no 
spirit  of  war  in  our  hearts.  We 
have  been  taught  and  we  have 
learned  that  it  is  a  part  of  our  duty, 
and  a  very  important  part,  to  aban- 
don the  spirit  of  strife,  contention, 
and  warfare,  either  among  ourselves 
or  against  any  portion  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  We  send  out  our  el- 
ders to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  not 
to  make  war  upon  the  religious  or- 
ganizations that  exist,  not  to  con- 
tend w'ith  them  and  to  create  strife, 


confusion  and  contention  among  the 
inhabitants  of  the  world.  The  mes- 
sage that  we  have  to  bear  to  men  is 
the  message  of  life,  peace,  salvation, 
and  redemption  from  sin. 

Our  elders  are  instructed  here, 
and  they  are  taught  from  their 
childhood  up,  that  they  are  not  to 
go  out  and  make  war  upon  the  re- 
ligious organizations  of  the  world 
when  they  are  called  to  go  out  to 
preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
but  to  go  and  bear  with  them  the 
message  which  has  been  given  to 
us  through  the  instrumentality  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  this  latter 
dispensation,  whereby  men  may 
learn  the  truth,  if  they  will.  They 
are  sent  out  to  offer  the  olive 
branch  of  peace  to  the  world,  to  of- 
fer the  knowledge  that  God  has 
spoken  from  the  heavens  once  more 
to  his  children  upon  the  earth ;  that 
God  has  in  his  mercy  restored  again 
to  the  world  the  fulness  of  the 
Gospel  of  His  Only  Begotten  Son, 
in  the  flesh,  that  God  has  revealed 
and  restored  to  mankind  the  divine 
power  and  authority  from  Himself, 
whereby  they  are  enabled  and  auth- 
orized to  perform  the  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  neces- 
sary for  their  salvation,  and  their 
performance  of  these  ordinances 
must  of  necessity  be  acceptable  un- 
to God  who  has  given  to  them  the 
authority  to  perform  them  in  His 
name.  Our  elders  are  sent  out  to 
preach  repentance  of  sin,  to  preach 
righteousness,  to  preach  to  the 
world  the  gospel  of  love,  of  fellow- 
ship and  of  friendship  among  man- 
kind, to  teach  men  and  women  to 
do  that  which  is  right  in  the  sight  of 
God  and  in  the  presence  of  all  men, 
to  teach  them  the  fact  that  God  has 
organized  His  Church,  a  Church  of 
which  He,  Himself,  is  the  author 
and  the  founder — not  Joseph  Smith, 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


not  President  Brigham  Young,  not 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  that  have  been 
chosen  in  this  dispensation — to  them 
does  not  belong  the  honor  of  estab- 
lishing the  Church,  God  is  its  au- 
thor, God  is  its  founder  and  we  are 
sent  out  and  we  send  out  our  elders 
to  make  this  proclamation  to  the 
world,  and  leave  it  to  their  own 
judgment  and  discretion  as  to 
whether  they  will  investigate  it, 
learn  the,  truth  for  themselves,  and 
accept  it,  or  whether  they  will  reject 
it.  We  do  not  make  war  upon  them  ; 
if  they  do  not  receive  it,  we  do  not 
contend  with  them  if  they  fail  to 
benefit  themselves  by  receiving  the 
message  that  we  give  to  them  for 
their  own  good,  we  only  pity.  Our 
sympathy  goes  out  to  those  who  will 
not  receive  the  truth  and  who  will 
not  walk  in  the  light  when  the  light 
shines  before  them  ;  not  hatred,  not 
enmity,  not  the  spirit  of  condemna- 
tion ;  it  is  our  duty  to  leave  con- 
demnation in  the  hands  of  Almighty 
God.  He  is  the  only  real,  true, 
righteous,  impartial  judge,  and  we 
leave  judgment  in  His  hands.  Tt  is 
not  our  business  to  proclaim  calami- 
ties, judgments,  destruction  and  the 
wrath  of  God  upon  men,  if  they  will 
not  receive  the  truth.  Let  them  read 
the  word  of  God,  as  recorded  in  the 
Xew  and  the  Old  Testaments,  and, 
if  they  will  receive  it  let  them  read 
the  word  that  has  been  restored 
through  the  gift  and  power  of  God 
to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  as  contained 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Let  them 
read  these  things,  and  they  will  learn 
there,  themselves,  the  promises  that 
God  has  made  to  those  who  will  not 
hearken  when  they  hear  the  truth, 
but  will  close  their  ear^  and  their 
eyes  against  the  light.  We  need  not 
repeat  these  things  and  try  to  im- 
pose upon  the  feelings  and  judg- 


ments of  men  by  threatening  them 
or  by  warning  them  against  the  dan- 
gers and  evils  that  may  come  upon 
the  ungodly,  the  disobedient,  the  un- 
thankful, and  those  who  will  not 
yield  to  the  truth.  They  will  learn 
it  soon  enough,  if  we  do  not  men- 
tion it  to  them  at  all. 

It  is  not  a  part  of  our  business  to 
dwell  upon  these  things  ;  our  duty  is 
to  tell  the  truth,  preach  the  truth, 
the  peaceable  things  of  the  King- 
dom of  God,  the  way  of  life  and 
salvation,  the  way  of  repentance,  the 
way  of  righteousness,  the  way  of 
love  and  of  dealing  one  with  an- 
other, the  golden  rule  to  do  unto 
others  as  we  would  that  they  should 
do  unto  us,  as  taught  by  the  Son  of 
God.  The  great  object  and  duty 
that  devolves  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  is  to  learn,  each  man  and 
each  women  for  himself  and  for 
herself,  their  individual  duty  as 
members  of  the  Church.  Just  as 
soon  as  a  man  or  woman  learns  his 
and  her  duty  to  God  and  to  those 
who  are  members  with  them  in  the 
household  of  faith,  peace  is  estab- 
lished, love  and  good  will  are  as- 
sured, no  back-bitting,  no  fault-find- 
ing, no  bearing  false  witness  against 
neighbors,  no  strife,  no  contention. 
For  the  moment  that  a  Latter-day 
Saint  learns  his  duty,  he  will  learn 
that  it  is  his  business  to  make  peace, 
to  establish  good  will,  to  work  right- 
eousness, to  be  filled  with  the  spirit 
of  kindness,  love,  charity,  and  for- 
giveness ;  and,  so  far  as  he  con- 
cerned, there  can  be  no  war,  no 
strife,  no  contention,  no  quarreling, 
no  disunion  ;  no  factions  can  arise 
among  the  people  who  know  their 
duty  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

Another  great  and  important  duty 
devolving  upon  this  people  is  to 
teach  their  children,  from  their  cra- 
dle until  they   become    men  and 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


5 


women,  every  principle  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  endeavor,  as  far  as  it  lies  in 
the  power  of  the  parents,  to  instil 
into  their  hearts  a  love  for  God,  the 
truth,  virtue,  honesty,  honor  and  in- 
tegrity to  every  thing  that  is  good. 
That  is  important  for  all  men  and 
women  who  stand  at  the  head  of  a 
family  in  the  household  of  faith. 
Teach  your  children  the  love  of  God. 
Teach  them  to  love  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Teach 
them  to  love  their  fellowmen,  and 
especially  to  love  their  fellow  mem- 
bers in  the  Church,  that  they  may 
be  true  to  their  fellowship  with  the 
people  of  God.  Teach  them  to 
honor  the  priesthood,  to  honor  the 
authority  that  God  has  bestowed 
upon  His  Church  for  the  proper 
.government  of  His  Church.  The 
house  of  God  is  a  house  of  order, 
and  not  a  house  of  confusion  ;  and 
it  could  not  be  thus,  if  there  were 
not  those  who  had  authority  to  pre- 
side, to  direct,  to  counsel,  to  lead  in 
the  affairs  of  the  Church.  No  house 
would  be  a  house  of  order  if  it  were 
not  properlv  organized  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  organized.  Take  away 
the  organization  of  the  Church,  and 
its  power  would  cease.  Every  part 
of  its  organization  is  necessary,  and 
essential  to  its  perfect  existence. 
Disregard,  ignore,  or  omit  any  part 
and  you  start  imperfection  in  the 
Church ;  and  if  we  should  continue 
in  that  way  we  would  find  ourselves 
like  those  of  old,  being  led  by  error, 
superstition,  ignorance,  and  by  the 
cunning  and  craftiness  of  men.  We 
would  soon  leave  out  here  a  little 
and  there  a  little,  here  a  line  and 
there  a  precept,  until  we  would  be- 
come like  the  rest  of  the  world, 
divided,  disorganized,  confused,  and 
without  knowledge,  without  revela- 
t*»n  or  inspiration,  and  without  Di- 


vine authority  or  power.  Of  course, 
it  is  very  necessary  that  those  who 
preside  in  the  Church  should  learn 
thoroughly  their  duties.  There  is 
not  a  man  holding  any  position  of 
authority  in  the  Church  who  can 
perform  his  duty  as  he  should  in 
any  other  spirit  than  in  the  spirit  of 
fatherhood  and  brotherhood  toward 
those  over  whom  he  presides.  Those 
who  have  authority  should  not  be 
rulers,  nor  dictators,  they  should  not 
be  arbitrary,  they  should  gain  the 
hearts,  the  confidence  and  the  love 
of  those  over  whom  they  preside, 
by  kindness  and  love  unfeigned,  by 
gentleness  of  spirit,  by  persuasion, 
by  an  example  that  is  above  re- 
proach and  above  the  reach  of  un- 
just criticism.  In  this  way,  in  the 
kindness  of  their  hearts,  in  their  love 
for  their  people,  they  lead  them  in 
the  path  of  righteousness,  and  teach 
them  the  way  of  salvation,  by  say- 
ing to  them  both  by  precept  and 
example :  Follow  me,  as  I  follow 
our  head,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  This  is  the  duty  of  those 
who  preside.  The  duty  of  the  high 
councils  of  the  Church,  when  they 
are  called  to  act  upon  questions  in- 
volving the  membership  or  standing 
of  members  of  the  Church,  is  to  find 
out  the  truth,  the  facts,  and  then 
judge  according  to  the  truth  and  the 
facts  that  are  brought  to  their  un- 
derstanding, always  tempered  with 
mercy,  love,  and  kindness,  and  with 
the  spirit  in  their  souls  to  save  and 
not  to  destroy  and  cast  out.  Our 
mission  is  to  save,  not  destroy ;  our 
aim  should  be  to  build  up,  and  not 
to  tear  down.  Our  calling  is  to 
convey  the  spirit  of  love,  truth, 
peace  and  good  will  to  mankind 
throughout  the  world  ;  that  war  may 
cease ;  that  strife  may  come  to  an 
end.  and  that  peace  may  prevail. 
I  thank  God.  my  Heavenly  Father, 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  you  do,  every  one  of  you  present 
here  today,  and  as  do  all  the  people 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  our  land  is 
at  peace  as  much  as  it  is.  I  am  sor- 
ry that  there  should  be  any  internal 
disruptions,  division,  or  contention 
existing  at  all  among  the  various 
organizations  of  the  people  of  our 
land.  I  am  sorry  that  there  should 
be  strife.  If  they  had  the  true  spirit 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  they 
would  not  have  strife  ;  they  would 
cease  to  harbor  feelings  of  conten- 
tion and  strife  ;  if  troubles  came  they 
would  meet  together  and  deliberate 
in  the  spirit  of  wisdom,  meekness 
and  humility,  invoking  the  blessing 
and  spirit  of  Almighty  God  upon 
their  deliberations  and  counsels,  and 
calmly  decide  together  upon  that 
which  would  be  for  the  common 
good,  and  then  go  as  one  man  to  do 
that  which  is  necessary  to  build  up 
the  nation  and  the  country  in  which 
we  dwell.  I  am  glad  that  we  have 
kept  out  of  war  so  far,  and  I  hope 
and  pray  that  we  may  not  be  under 
the  necessity  of  sending  our  sons  to 
war,  or  experience  as  a  nation  the 
distress,  the  anguish  and  sorrow 
that  come  from  a  condition  such  as 
exists  upon  the  old  continent.  Oh 
God,  have  mercy  upon  thy  poor 
children  in  Europe,  and  throughout 
the  world,  who  are  brought  under 
the  awful  conditions  that  exist  there 
because  of  the  ambition  and  pride  of 
men  who  claim  the  right  and  power 
to  dictate,  even  to  life  or  death,  the 
conduct  of  the  people  over  whom 
they  rule. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  God  is 
with  you ;  the  Lord  is  with  this  peo- 
ple ;  and  if  we  will  be  His  children 
in  very  deed  as  He  is  in  very  deed 
our  Father,  I  tell  you  that  God  will 
temper  the  elements  for  your  good  ; 
He  will  bless  you  with  health  ;  He 


will  bless  you  with  abundance :  He 
will  bless  the  earth  and  make  it 
fruitful.  Those  who  reap  their  har- 
vest by  the  toil  and  sweat  of  their 
brow,  from  mother  earth,  will  have 
bounteous  harvests  if  they  will  only 
serve  God  in  their  hearts  and  in 
their  outward  life.  I  feel  just  as 
sure  of  this  as  I  do  that  I  am  stand- 
ing before  you  here. 

I  do  not  .  feel  that  it  would  lie  to 
my  advantage,  nor  to  yours,  for  me 
to  continue  my  remarks  very  much 
longer.  I  have  no  need  of  course  to 
refer  to  my  personal  feelings  and 
condition  ;  but  I  have  recently  passed 
through  my  share  of  sorrow.  Nev- 
ertheless the  Lord  has  been  so  mer: 
ciful  to  me,  He  has  blessed  me  in 
so  many  ways,  and  multiplied  His 
favors  and  mercies  upon  me  to  such 
an  extent  that  it  would  be  shameful 
for  me  to  complain,  even  under  the 
most  severe  afflictions  and  adverse 
conditions  and  circumstances  in  life. 
T  love  truth  wherever  I  see  or  find 
it.  I  love  men  and  women  who  are 
virtuous  and  honorable.  T  would 
love  a  man,  no  matter  who  he  is,  if 
T  knew  that  he  was  honest  before 
God.  He  might  differ  with  me  in 
religious  views,  and  in  many  other 
ways :  but,  is  he  honest  with  his  fel- 
low man  and  with  his  God?  If  he 
is,  I  honor  him,  and  I  love  him  for 
his  honesty. 

When  I  think  of  our  mothers,  the 
mothers  of  our  children,  and  realize 
that  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Gospel  they  live  virtuous,  pure,  hon- 
orable lives,  true  to  their  husbands, 
true  to  their  children,  true  to  their 
convictions  of  the  Gospel,  oh,  how 
my  soul  goes  out  in  pure  love  for 
them ;  how  noble  and  how  God- 
given,  how  choice,  how  desirable 
and  how  indispensable  they  arc  to 
the  accomplishment  of  God's  pur- 
poses and  the  fulfilment  of  His  de- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


7 


crees.  My  brethren,  can  you  mis- 
treat yonr  wives,  the  mothers  of 
vonr  children?  Can  you  help  treat- 
ing- them  with  love  and  kindness? 
Can  )rou  help  trying  to  make  their 
lives  as  comfortable  and  happy  as 
possible,  lightening  their  burdens  to 
the  utmost  of  your  ability,  making 
life  pleasant  for  them  and  for  their 
children  in  their  homes?  How  can 
you  help  it  ?  How  can  any  one  help 
feeling  an  intense  interest  in  the 
mother  of  his  children,  and  also  in 
his  children?  If  we  possess  the 
Spirit  of  God.  we  can  not  do  other- 
wise. It  is  only  when  men  depart 
from  the  right  spirit,  when  they 
digress  from  their  duty,  that  they 
will  neglect  or  dishonor  any  soul 
that  is  committed  to  their  care.  They 
are  bound  to  honor  their  wives  and 
children.  Intelligent  men,  men  of 
business,  men  of  affairs,  men  who 
are  involved  constantly  in  the  labors 
of  life,  and  have  to  devote  their  en- 
ergies and  thought  to  their  labors 
.and  duties,  may  not  enjoy  as  many 
comforts  with  their  families  as  they 
would  like,  but  if  they  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  them  in  the 
performance  of  their  temporal  du- 
ties, they  will  never  neglect  the 
mothers  of  their  children,  nor  their 
children.  They  will  not  fail  to  teach 
them  the  principles  of  life  and  set 
before  them  a  proper  example.  Don't 
do  anything  yourselves  that  you 
would  have  to  say  to  your  boy, 
"Don't  do  it."  Live  so  that  you  can 
sav,  "My  son,  do  as  I  do,  follow 
me,  emulate  my  example."  That  is 
the  wav  fathers  should  live,  every 
one  of  us  ;  and  it  is  a  shame,  a  weak- 
ening, shameful  thing  for  any  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  to  pursue  a  course 
that  he  knows  is  not  right  and  that 
he  would  rather  his  children  should 
not  follow.  What  a  shameful  thing 
it  is  for  a  man  to  place  upon  himself 


an  embargo,  a  handicap  against  do- 
ing his  full  duty  to  those  that  love 
him  and  whom  he  should  love  above 
his  own  life,  by  yielding  to  appe- 
tites that  are  wrong  and  to  passions 
that  are  base,  and  doing  things  that 
he  ought  not  to  do,  and  that  he 
would  feign  keep  his  children  from 
doing.  Do  your  duty,  my  brethren, 
and  the  Lord  will  do  His  for  you. 

We  want  Zion  to  grow  and  be- 
come strong  in  righteousness.  We 
desire  the  people  of  Zion  to  develop 
in  understanding  and  grow  in 
knowledge  and  become  strong  in 
wisdom.  We  want  you  to  cultivate 
the  spirit  of  mercy,  of  charity  and 
forgiveness.  We  want  you  to  be 
generous  to  the  poor  ;  we  desire  that 
you  will  guard  the  helpless,  the 
aged,  and  provide  for  them.  God 
has  made  provision  in  His  Church, 
in  the  complete  organization  of  it, 
so  that  every  faithful  soul  in  it  may 
be  looked  after  and  nurtured  and 
cared  for  in  the  hour  of  need.  The 
trouble  with  us  at  present  is  that 
there  are  so  many  men  who  are 
holding  membership  in  the  Church, 
who  neglect  their  duty  in  so  many 
ways,  that  we  have  not  the  means  to 
provide  as  amply  as  we  would  like 
for  the  necessities  of  the  poor.  When 
you  look  upon  a  tithing  record,  a 
book  of  large  dimensions,  contain- 
ing the  names  of  members  of  the 
Church  who  do  not  pay  their  tith- 
ing, you  do  not  need  to  wonder  why 
the  Church  has  not  more  means  to 
provide  for  the  poor.  We  are  doing 
the  best  we  can  with  the  means  we 
have.  I  am  going  to  read  you  just 
a  few  little  things  that  we  are  doing 
with  the  means  you  consecrate  to 
the  Lord  for  the  upbuilding  of  Zion. 

The  general  Church  Auditing 
Committee  has  examined  the  re- 
ceipts and  disbursements  of  the 
tithes  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  mis- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sions,  also  the  accounts  of  the  Pre-  not  been  indulged  in  very  much ; 
siding  Bishop's  Office,  and  the  ac-  but  there  have  been  so  many  false 
counts  in  the  office  of  the  Trustee-  charges  made  against  me  and 
in-Trust.  Their  report  will  be  ren-  against  my  brethren  by  ignorant  and 
dered  before  the  close  of  the  confer-  evilly  disposed  people,  that  I  pro- 
ence,  I  suppose.  pose  to  make  a  true  statement  which 

The  following  report  will  show  will,  I  believe,  at  least  have  a  ten- 
how  the  tithing  of  the  Church,  for  dency  to  convince  you  that  we  are 
the  year  1914,  has  been  disbursed,  trying  to  do  our  duty  the  best  we 
Now  I  am  taking  a  liberty  that  has     know  how  : 

April  4,  1915. 

The  following  report  will  show  how  the  tithing  of  the  Church  for 
the  year  1914  has  been  disbursed : 

For  the  erection  and  maintenance  of  stake  tabernacles,  ward 
meeting  houses,  amusement  halls  and  other  stake  and 

ward  expenses  $  730,960.00 

For  the  maintenance  of  Church  schools   330,984.00 

For  the  maintenance  of  our  Temples   64,508.00 

For  the  erection  of  mission  houses  and  general  mission  activ- 
ities, and  return  fares  of  missionaries   227,()00.00 

For  the  maintenance  of  Church  buildings  and  Church  institu- 
tions, including  the  Temple  block  and  the  Presiding 

Bishop's  office    99,293.00 

For  the  completion  and  maintenance  of  the  Latter-dav  Saints 

Hospital    136,727.00 

For  the  erection  of  the  Cardston  Temple   52,647.00 

For  the  erection  of  the  new  Church  office  building   128,663.00 

Paid  to  the  worthy  poor  out  of  the  tithing  funds   1 16.238.00 

$1,887,920.00 

This  is  the  entire  tithing  of  the  Church  in  all  the  world  for  the  year  1  c>  1  -4. 

The  expenses  of  the  General  Authorities  and  the  maintenance  of  the 
office  of  the  First  Presidency  are  paid  out  of  revenues  derived  from  invest- 
ments, and  not  out  of  the  tithes  of  the  Church. 

In  addition  to  the  amount  paid  out  of  the  tithes  to  the  poor.  .$   1 16.238.00 
there  has  been  collected  and  paid  to  the  poor  by  the  Re- 
lief Society    74.290.00 

And  there  has  been  paid  to  the  poor  by  the  Bishops  from 

the  fast  offerings  and  other  ward  charity  funds   76,000.00 

Making  a  total  paid  to  the  poor  for  1914  $  266.528.00 

There  has  been  collected  for  the  war  sufferers,  which  is  being 

expended  under  the  direction  of  President  Hyrum  M. 

Smith,  of  the  European  Mission  $  33,000.00 


Our  records  show  that  73%  of  all  the  Latter-day  Saint  families  resid- 
ing in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  own  their  own  homes. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


9 


The  birth  rate  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1914  is  39.5  to  the  thousand. 
The  death  rate  for  the  year  1914  is  8.3  to  the  thousand. 
Marriage  rate  for  the  year  1914  is  17  to  the  thousand. 
During  the  year  there  were  14,717  children  blessed. 
There  are  1,316  Elders  and  115  women  laboring  in  the  missions  as 
missionaries. 

Of  the  membership  of  the  Church  residing  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
319.000  were  born  in  the  United  States. 

There  has  been  a  net  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Church  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion  from  the  year  1901  to  1914  of  129,493  souls. 

There  are  now  739  wards  and  33  independent  branches.  There  are 
68  stakes  of  Zion  and  21  missions.  During  the  year  1914,  21  new  wards 
have  been  organized  and  2  stakes  of  Zion. 

There  have  been  performed  in  the  Temples  during  the  past  year, 
166,909  baptisms  for  the  living  and  dead,  and  72,952  endowments  for  the 
living  and  dead.  Altogether  326,264  ordinances  have  been  performed  in 
the  four  temples.  This  is  a  very  considerable  increase  over  any  previous 
year. 

Ward  teaching  has  been  given  considerable  attention  by  the  stake  and 
ward  officers,  with  the  results  that  in  some  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  the  work 
has  been  so  well  developed  that  96(/(  of  all  the  families  are  visited  by  the 
ward  teachers  each  month. 


Now  some  people  have  reported 
that  the  tithes  of  the  Church  amount 
to  millions  every  year,  and  Joseph  F. 
Smith  has  the  absolute  control  of  all 
these  millions,  and  never  gives  any 
account  of  them  to  the  world,  nor  to 
anybody  else.  Now  we  are  not  giv- 
ing this  to  the  world  ;  we  are  giving 
it  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  These 
amounts  which  I  have  read,  I  think 
it  may  be  proper  to  state  here,  cover 
the  entire  tithing  of  the  Church  in 
all  the  world,  for  the  year  1914. 
Now  when  you  come  to  talk  about 
the  millions  and  millions  of  dollars 
of  tithing  paid  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  it 
is  simmered  down  to  $1,887,920,  for 
the  year  1914,  and  that  was  an  av- 
erage year.  I  may  be  pardoned,  per- 
haps, if  I  say  here,  for  the  benefit  of 
any  who  do  not  know  the  facts,  that 
the  law  of  tithing  is  a  voluntary 
law  :  that  is,  it  imposes  only  a  vol- 
untary duty  upon  the  people.  No 
person's  standing  as  a  member  of 


the  Church,  is  jeopardized  because 
he  doesn't  pay  his  tithing.  There 
are  a  good  many  of  us  who  don't 
observe  all  the  laws,  and  it  is  a  good 
thing  that  the  Lord  does  not  execute 
justice  and  judgment  upon  a  great 
many  of  us  because  of  it. 

The  expenses  of  the  general  au- 
thorities and  the  maintenance  of  the 
First  Presidency  are  paid  out  of  the 
revenues  derived  from  investments, 
and  not  out  of  the  tithes  of  the 
Church.  These  investments,  as  a 
rule,  consist  of  contributions  of 
stocks  of  various  kinds  to  the 
Church  on  tithing,  which  have  been 
held  by  the  Church  ;  and  the  divi- 
dends that  we  derive  from  these 
stocks  and  investments  are  for  the 
benefit  of  the  people  in  every  in- 
stance, for  the  Church  has  never 
made  an  investment  that  had  not  for 
its  object  the  benefiting  of  the  whole 
people,  as  far  as  possible,  fostering 
industries,  and  the  colonization  of 
our  country.    It  has  been  done  for 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


aiding  the  settlers  of  our  country, 
our  state  and  our  adjoining  states, 
as  far  as  possible,  by  assisting  them 
with  means,  to  help  them  lay  the 
foundation  of  prosperity  for  them- 
selves. 

It  just  occurs  to  me  that  we  are 
talking  to  you  on  the  Sabbath  day, 
and  some  people,  perhaps,  may  feel 
that  it  is  somewhat  out  of  place  for 
us  to  talk  about  money  and  tempor- 
alities, about  tithing,  or  the  expendi- 
ture of  means  and  the  uses  made  of 
it,  on  the  Sabbath  day,  but  the  Sab- 
bath was  made  for  man,  and  not 
man  for  the  Sabbath.  God  made  or 
designated  the  Sabbath  day  for  a 
day  of  rest,  a  clay  of  worship,  a  day 
for  goodly  deeds,  and  for  humility 
and  penitence,  and  the  worship  of 
the  Almighty  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

There  has  been  collected  for  the 
war  sufferers,  which  is  being  ex- 
pended under  the  direction  of  Presi- 
dent Hyrum  M.  Smith  of  the  Euro- 
pean Mission,  $33,000.  This  was 
done  on  one  day,  practically,  a  day 
set  apart  for  general  contributions 
for  the  benefit  of  the  sufferers,  in 
consequence  of  the  war.  T  have  a 
list  of  the  names  of  all  the  stakes 
of  Zion  and  the  wards  which  con- 
tributed these  means,  and  it  was  all 
contributed  and  handled  and  sent  to 
the  sufferers  to  lie  distributed 
equally  and  impartially, — to  Latter- 
day  Saints,  mind  you,  first.  T  want 
to  tell  you  that,  we  will  be  honest 
with  you ;  we  feel  that  it  is  the  first 
duty  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  take 
care  of  themselves,  and  of  their 
poor;  and  then,  if  we  can  extend  it 
to  others,  and  as  wide  and  as  far  as 
we  can  extend  charity  and  assistance 
to  others  that  are  not  members  of 
the  Church,  we  feel  that  it  is  our 
duty  to  do  it.  But  first  look  after 
the  members  of  our  own  household. 
The  man  who  will  not  provide  for 


his  own  house,  as  one  of  old  has 
said,  is  worse  than  an  infidel.  So 
we  make  no  apologies  for  saying 
that  we  have  collected  these  means 
for  the  suffering  Latter-day  Saints 
that  are  afflicted  because  of  the  war, 
in  Germany,  in  Austria,  in  Italy,  in 
Switzerland,  Holland  and  in  Eng- 
land and  anywhere  else  where  they 
are  suffering  in  consequence  of  it. 
It  cost  the  fund  not  one  penny,  not 
even  a  postage  stamp  for  collection. 
May  be  you  would  like  to  know 
that :  there  were  no  paid  agencies, 
no  paid  collectors.  No  one  received 
a  nickel  from  the  funds  contributed 
for  the  assistance  of  the  afflicted 
and  the  suffering.  It  was  done 
through  the  channels  of  the  holy 
priesthood,  through  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  in  the  regular  way, 
and  it  has  cost  nobody  anything. 
The  First  Presidency  received  the 
other  day  the  following  cable  mes- 
sage from  the  President  of  the  Swiss 
and  German  Mission : 

"Two  thousand  dollar  relief  fund 
thankfully  received.  Express  gratitude  to 
God's  people.  Conditions  satisfactory. — 
VALENTINE,  President  Swiss  and  German 
Mission." 

We  have  received  also  a  number 
of  returns  from  President  Mvrum 
M.  Smith,  but  in  volume,  and  these 
returns  have  not  been  condensed,  so 
that  they  can  be  presented  here. 

Now,  we  have  a  few  more  state- 
ments that  I  desire  to  read  :  Our 
records  show  that  73^  of  all  the 
Latter-day  Saint  families,  residing 
in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion.  own  their 
own  homes.  I  am  sorry  that  this 
figure  is  not  as  large  as  it  has  been 
in  the  past,  but  we  have  become 
more  numerous  than  we  were  when 
95%  of  the  people  of  the  Church 
owned  their  own  little  homes  and 
owed  nothing  to  anybody  for  them. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


11 


Let  me  inject  here,  once  more,  my 
standing  admonition  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints :  My  brethren,  see  to  it 
that  yon  do  not  put  a  mortgage 
upon  the  roof  that  covers  the  heads 
of  your  wives  and  your  children. 
Don't  do  it.  Don't  plaster  your 
farms  with  mortgages,  because  it  is 
from  your  farms  that  you  reap  your 
food,  and  the  means  to  provide  your 
raiment  and  your  other  necessaries 
of  life.  Keep  your  possessions  free 
from  debt.  Get  out  of  debt  as  fast 
as  you  can,  and  keep  out  of  debt,  for 
that  is  the  way  in  which  the  promise 
of  God  will  be  fulfilled  to  the  people 
of  His  Church,  that  they  will  be- 
come the  richest  of  all  people  in  the 
world.  But  this  will  not  happen 
while  you  mortgage  your  homes  and 
your  farms,  or  run  into  debt  be- 
yond your  ability  to  meet  your  obli- 
gations ;  and  thus,  perhaps,  your 
name  and  credit  be  dishonored  be- 
cause you  over-reached  yourselves. 
"Never  reach  farther  than  you  can 
gather,"  is  a  good  motto. 

From  each  of  the  newly  organized 
wards  we  have  received  calls  to  as- 
sist to  help  build  new  meeting- 
houses ;  and  so  the  work  goes  on.  I 
have  read  the  figures  of  the  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  that  we  are  ap- 
propriating for  the  assistance  in  the 
erection  of  meetinghouses,  taberna- 
cles, and  amusement  places  for  the 
vouth  of  Zion.  to  keep  them  under 
proper  restraint  and  control. 

The  work  in  the  temples  has  been 
the  largest  on  record.  There  have 
been  performed  in  the  temples,  dur- 
ing the  past  year,  166.909  baptisms 
for  the  living  and  dead, — an  indica- 
tion that  we  are  increasing  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  very,  very 
much  faster  in  the  spirit-world  than 
we  are  on  earth. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
do  not  want  to  weary  you  with  sta- 


tistics. Our  duty  is  not  to  deal  par- 
ticularly in  statistics  and  in  finan- 
cial matters.  Our  paramount  duty 
is  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  inculcation  of 
the  principles  of  that  Gospel  in  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  all  our  children. 
This  is  our  duty.  God  bless  you.  I 
am  glad  to  see  you  here.  I  surely 
welcome  you  with  all  my  soul,  and 
I  feel  in  my  soul  that  God  will  bless 
you  for  your  presence  here.  Why 
are  you  here?  Because  you  are 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  You  are  here  because  this 
is  the  annual  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  You  are  here  because 
you  are  members  of  that  Church  and 
because  you  are  members  of  the 
priesthood  and  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church  and  are 
all  interested  in  the  well-being,  ad- 
vancement, and  development,  spirit- 
ually, intellectually,  physically  and 
financially,  and  every  other  way,  of 
the  people  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  God 
bless  you,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "Christ  is  Risen," 
was  sung  by  Sister  Esther  Davis 
Stephens. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Certainty  of  the  resurrection — "Eas- 
ter" an  improper  name  for  day  cele- 
brating the  sacred  event — The  Pass- 
over, old  and  new — Witnesses  of  the 
risen  Redeemer — Christ's  mission  to 
the  spirit-world — Scripture  evidences 
that  though  the  body  dies  the  spirit 
lives — Universality  of  the  resurrec- 
tion— God's  justice  manifest  in  plan 
of  salvation  for  the  dead. 

In  presenting  myself  before  you, 
and  attempting  to  speak  to  you,  I 
ask  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


behalf.  With  you  I  have  listened 
with  much  interest  and  pleasure  to 
the  remarks  of  our  President.  He 
has  given  us  the  keynote  of  love  and 
good  will  to  one  another,  and  asked 
us  to  perform  the  duties  that  devolve 
upon  us,  and  I  believe  that  we  all 
feel  to  respond  to  this  exhortation. 

The  song  that  we  have  just  lis- 
tened to,  "He  is  Risen,"  was  very 
appropriate,  as  this  is  Easter  Sun- 
day, which  we  celebrate  in  memory 
of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ. 
It  was  a  happy  message  that  came 
to  the  world  through  this  event,  the 
resurrection,  that  Jesus  had  con- 
quered death  and  had  come  forth 
out  of  the  grave. 

The  resurrection,  the  central  fact 
of  our  faith,  has  been  doubted  by  a 
great  many,  and  yet  He  was  seen 
by  His  apostles  and  some  of  His 
disciples,  and  by  as  many  as  five 
hundred  at  one  time.  To  us  there  is 
no  doubt  about  the  resurrection.  We 
feel  grateful  to  believe  and  know 
that  Christ  did  rise  from  the  dead, 
that  He  laid  down  His  life,  of  Him- 
self, and  was  able  to  take  it  again, 
and  thereby  give  us  the  hope,  the 
assurance,  that  resurrection  will 
come  to  all  of  us. 

Last  Thursday  night  was  cele- 
brated in  memory  of  His  instituting 
the  Holy  Sacrament ;  Friday  we 
commemorated  His  crucifixion,  and 
today,  the  first  day  of  the  week,  we 
celebrate  His  resurrection.  He  rose 
from  the  grave,  the  crowning  act  of 
redemption,  and  thus  finished  the 
great  mission  given  Him  by  His 
Heavenly  Father.  It  was  at  the 
Jewish  Passover  that  this  great 
event  occurred.  Here  in  America, 
and  in  England,  we  call  it  Easter: 
in  German v  they  call  it  Ostem.  Both 
the  English  and  the  Germans  have 
named  this  sacred  festival  after  a 
heathen  goddess.    How  much  better 


it  would  have  been  to  have  kept  the 
old  name,  or  a  derivation  of  it,  as 
in  other  lands,  for  instance  in  Scan- 
dinavia, where  it  is  called  Paaske, 
instead  of  a  name  that  has  no  found- 
ation upon  holiness.  Easter  is  one 
of  the  variable  feasts.  Among  Chris- 
tian nations  it  has  been  thought  best 
to  celebrate  it  at  a  time  when  the 
feast  would  include  Thursday.  Fri- 
day and  Sunday.  In  the  early  days 
the  Christians,  like  the  Jews,  cele- 
brated it  on  a  certain  day  of  the 
month,  but  this  has  been  changed  to 
the  present  custom. 

I  consider  that  this  day  brings  to 
us  more  joy  than  the  commemora- 
tion of  any  other  event  that  has  hap- 
pened in  the  world.  The  Passover 
was  instituted  to  remember  that  a 
number  of  the  children  of  Israel 
were  saved  from  death  by  obeying  a 
certain  command  of  God.  namely, 
that  of  sprinkling  the  blood  on  the 
door  posts ;  then  the  angel  of  death 
passed  over,  and  the  first-born  in  the 
families  of  the  Israelites  was  spared, 
while  among  the  Egyptians,  and 
those  who  did  not  obey  this  com- 
mand, the  first-born  was  stricken 
with  death.  The  Passover  that  we 
commemorate  today  is  of  much 
greater  importance.  While  the  old 
Passover  commemorated  the  saving 
of  a  few.  our  Passover  commemor- 
ates the  victory  over  death,  the 
bringing  of  life  unto  the  w  hole  hu- 
man race.  Every  son  or  daughter 
of  Adam  is  benefited  by  this  great 
event,  because  the  resurrection  will 
come  to  all.  Jesus  voluntarily  gave 
His  life  for  us.  and  by  doing  so  re- 
deemed us  from  the  effects  of  the 
fall.  How  grateful  and  thankful 
we  ought  to  be  to  Him. 

Tn  the  morning  of  the  day  that 
He  rose  from  the  dead.  He  was  seen 
bv  some  of  the  faithful  women  that 
believed  in  ITim.  and  by  some  of  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


13 


apostles.  On  the  same  day  He 
joined  two  disciples  going  to  Em- 
maus,  who  were  very  much  con- 
cerned about  what  had  taken  place. 
Then,  ''beginning  at  Moses  and  all 
the  prophets,  He  expounded  unto 
them"  the  scriptures  concerning 
Himself,  proving  that  Christ  should 
suffer  and  rise  again.  Afterwards, 
in  telling  about  His  speaking  to 
them,  they  said  that  their  hearts 
burned  within  them.  They  had  not 
understood  the  great  mission  that 
He  was  to  perform.  That  evening 
His  apostles  had  gathered  in  a  room 
with  closed  doors,  and  as  they  were 
talking  He  appeared  in  their  midst. 
All  but  Thomas  were  present ;  ten 
of  them  saw  Him,  felt  of  Him,  and 
rejoiced  that  the  Master  was  again 
with  them.  Next  Sunday,  Thomas, 
the  doubter,  seeing  Jesus,  was  con- 
vinced that  He  had  risen.  After  this 
Jesus  met  with  the  Apostles  at  Lake 
Gennesaret.  They  received  in- 
structions from  Him  there,  and 
Peter  was  called  to  be  the  shepherd 
over  His  flock. 

While  His  body  lay  in  the  grave 
we  are  told  that  He  went  to  the 
spirits  in  prison,  and  preached  unto 
them.  Luther  in  his  little  catechism 
said  that  Jesus  went  down  to  hell, 
and  on  the  third  day  rose  from  the 
dead.  Peter  informs  us  of  what  He 
did  during  the  time  that  He  was  in 
the  spirit-world.  The  word  "hell," 
as  it  occurs  in  the  New  Testament, 
has  been  translated  from  three  dif- 
ferent words  :  Gehenna,  Hades,  and 
Tartarus.  Whenever  the  word 
"Gehenna"  is  used  it  always  means 
a  place  of  torture,  conveying  the  real 
meaning  of  the  word  "hell"  to  us. 
The  other  word  is  "Llades,"  which 
could  have  been  translated  better 
perhaps  by  the  compound  word 
"spirit- world."  The  Greeks  under- 
stood the  word  to  mean  the  realm  of 


Pluto,  or  the  place  for  the  shades  of 
departed  ones,  and  in  the  latter  sense 
it  is  used  in  the  scriptures.  We  read 
in  the  Bible  that  "death  and  hell" 
should  give  up  their  dead,  and  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  a  sim- 
ilar statement.  Hell  does  not  mean 
the  place  of  torture  to  which  the 
wicked  will  be  assigned  at  the  great 
judgment,  though  those  who  have 
been  wicked,  and  transgressed  the 
law  here,  are  not  apt  to  be  very 
happy  in  the  spirit-world. 

Many  people  deny  that  the  spirit 
lives,  and  can  think  and  act  between 
death  and  the  resurrection.  They 
who  hold  this  opinion  quote  what 
the  preacher  says  in  the  Book  of 
Ecclesiastes,  that  "the  living  know 
that  they  shall  die,  but  the  dead 
know  not  anything  ;"  and  in  another 
verse  in  the  same  chapter  he  says, 
"Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do. 
do  with  all  thy  might,  for  there  is 
no  work,  nor  device,  nor  knowledge, 
nor  wisdom  in  the  grave  whither 
thou  goest."  And  so  they  conclude 
that  spirit  and  body  sleep  in  the 
grave  untij  the  day  of  resurrection. 
Not  long  ago  I  read  a  tract  upon 
this  subject  in  which  the  author  rid- 
iculed the  idea  of  the  spirits  going 
to  the  spirit-world,  and  he  declared 
that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  hu- 
man spirit.  Now,  what  did  the 
preacher  mean?  Did  he  mean  that 
the  spirit  and  the  body  lay  in  the 
grave  slumbering,  and  hence  there  is 
"no  knowledge,  no  wisdom,  in  the 
grave"  and  that  "the  dead  know- 
not  anything?"  No,  I  firmly  believe 
that  he  alluded  o'nly  to  the  body  :  the 
body  is  laid  in  the  grave  and  it  does 
not  know  anything,  for  the  part  of 
man  that  knows,  thinks  and  wills, 
has  left.  And  that  this  was  really  his 
meaning  I  take  from  another  of  his 
sayings :  "Then  shall  the  dust  re- 
turn to  the  earth  as  it  was,  and  the 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spirit  shall  return  unto  God  that 
gave  it."  Now,  this  is  said  by  the 
same  man  who  wrote  the  above  quo- 
tations, which  are  used  so  often 
against  the  doctrine  of  an  interme- 
diate state  between  death  and  the 
resurrection.  He  declares  that  the 
spirit  shall  return  to  God  who  gave 
it ;  consequently,  he  could  not  have 
included  the  spirit  in  his  statement 
that  "the  dead  know  not  anything;" 
he  alluded  to  that  part  only  that  was 
laid  in  the  grave. 

Alma  is  very  plain  on  the  subject 
of  an  intermediate  state.  He  tells  us 
that  the  spirits  of  the  righteous  go 
to  a  place  in  the  spirit-world  called 
Paradise,  a  place  of  joy  and  happi- 
ness ;  and  that  the  wicked  go  to  a 
place  by  themselves  also,  where  thev 
are  suffering  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  judgment  that  is  coming.  Now, 
when  Jesus'  spirit  left  His  body,  it 
went  to  Hades,  but  I  believe  it  went 
to  Paradise  first,  for  He  said  to  the 
repentant  thief  upon  the  cross,  "To- 
day shalt  thou  be  with  me  in  Para- 
dise." No  doubt  He  went  there,  and 
first  of  all  informed  those  who  had 
served  God  and  been  righteous,  and 
whose  day  of  resurrection  perhaps 
was  near,  of  what  he  had  been  able 
to  accomplish,  that  He  had  fulfilled 
His  mission,  had  overcome  death, 
and  thereby  brought  the  hope  to  all 
that  they  should  be  resurrected. 
After  this,  He  went  on  the  glorious 
mission  to  preach  to  the  spirits  in 
prison,  those  who  at  one  time  were 
disobedient,  and  had  rejected  the 
gospel  preached  by  Noah.  His  mis- 
sion was  to  proclaim  liberty  to  the 
captives,  open  the  prison  doors  to 
them  that  were  bound.  He  read 
from  the  scroll  handed  to  Him  in 
the  synagogue  at  Nazareth — the  first 
verses  of  the  61st  chapter  of  Isaiah 
— and  they  describe  His  own  mis- 


sion, and  allude  to  the  work  He  was 
to  perform.  He  brought  joy  to 
thousands  who  had  so  long  been 
confined,  and  had  suffered  for  their 
rejection  of  the  gospel. 

When  He  was  resurrected,  Mary 
discovered  that  He  was  the  Master, 
and  wanted  to  worship  Him,  but  He 
told  her  not  to  touch  Him  for  He 
had  not  yet  been  with  the  Father. 
We  understand  where  He  had  been 
and  the  work  He  had  done,  for  His. 
mission  was  not  only  to  the  few  that 
heard  Him  on  earth,  but  to  all  both 
living  and  dead ;  He  said  Himself, 
"the  hour  is  coming,  in  the  which  all 
that  are  in  their  graves  shall  hear 
His  voice."  His  mission  was  for  all 
that  should  come  upon  the  earth, 
and  to  all  of  them  He  brought  re- 
lease from  the  bands  of  death,  and 
He  bestowed  on  all  the  precious 
blessing  of  the  resurrection.  But 
the  resurrection  will  not  be  the  same 
to  all.  for  they  who  have  done  good 
will  come  forth  unto  the  resurrec- 
tion of  life,  and  they  that  have  done 
evil  will  come  forth  unto  the  resur- 
rection of  damnation.  This  we  are 
told  in  the  words  of  the  Savior 
Himself. 

Now,  we  rejoice  here  today  in 
dwelling  upon  this  great  event.  We 
feel  that  it  was  true,  what  the 
Prophet  Joseph  received  by  revela- 
tion and  gave  to  us  concerning  the 
resurrection  and  salvation  for  the 
dead.  This  doctrine  gives  a  satis- 
factory explanation  of  the  justice  of 
God.  If  it  be  true,  what  many  in 
the  world  believe,  that  only  the  few 
that  hear  the  doctrine  of  Christ  and 
receive  it  should  be  saved,  and  that 
all  the  other  myriads  who  come  upon 
the  earth  should  be  condemned,  be- 
cause they  had  not  heard  His  name, 
then  it  looks  very  unjust.  But  when 
we  remember  what  Peter  says,  that 


BISHOP  ORRIN  P.  MILLER. 


15 


the  dead  should  hear  the  Gospel, 
that  they  might  be  judged  accord- 
ing to  men  in  the  flesh,  we  begin  to 
understand  the  justice  of  God.  The 
Gospel  will  be  preached  to  all ;  every 
one  shall  hear  of  the  Mission  of 
Christ,  and  shall  have  a  chance 
either  to  receive  or  reject,  whether 
living  upon  the  earth  or  whether 
they  have  departed.  How  broad  is 
the  platform  of  salvation  !  The  Lord 
is  just  to  all,  and  no  one  coming  be- 
fore His  judgment  seat  shall  be  able 
to  say  that  he  has  not  been  dealt 
with  justly. 

Now.  brethren  and  sisters,  I  see 
the  time  allotted  is  past.  I  rejoice 
to  be  with  you ;  I  rejoice  in  the 
Gospel  as  preached  to  us;  I  rejoice 
in  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and 
in  knowing  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

President  Smith  stated  that  an- 
other overflow  meeting  will  be  held 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2  p.  m.,  at 
which  Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr., 
will  preside ;  also  an  outdoor  meet- 
ing", in  front  of  the  Bureau  of  Infor- 
mation, at  the  same  hour,  under  di- 
rection of  Elder  George  F.  Rich- 
ards. He  also  announced  that  ar- 
rangements have  been  made,  by  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  to  furnish  ac- 
commodations to  Conference  visitors 
who  are  not  otherwise  provided  for. 

"Rock  of  Ages,"  a  soprano  solo, 
was  rendered  by  Sister  Lily  Shipp. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Song 
of  the  Redeemed." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Lewis  Anderson. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  adjoining  the  Tabernacle,  at 
10  a.  m.  The  services  were  presided 
over  by  Elder  Rudger  Clawson,  and 
the  Cottonwood  Stake  Choir,  under 
direction  of  Manasseh  Smith,  fur- 
nished the  music. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn : 

Come,    dearest    Lord,    descend  and 
dwell, 

By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 
Then  shall  we  know,  and  taste,,  and 
feel 

The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

The  invocation  was  offered  by 
Elder  John  R.  Barnes. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn  : 

As  the  dew,  from  heaven  distilling, 
Gently  on  the  grass  descends, 

And  revives  it,  thus  fulfilling 
What  Thy  providence  intends. 

BISHOP  ORRIN  P.  MILLER. 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

It  is  a  great  surprise  to  me,  my 
beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be 
called  upon  to  address  you  for  a  few 
moments  upon  this  occasion.  My 
heart  is  full  of  gratitude  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  this  privilege, 
especially,  of  meeting  with  so  many 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that 
we  are  assembled  on  such  a  beau- 
tiful Sabbath  morning.  The  bosom 
of  the  earth  having  been  refreshed 
by  showers  of  rain,  and  then  the 
sunshine,  brings  to  our  hearts 
thanksgiving  and  rejoicing,  that  we 
have  such  glorious  conditions  in 
coming  together  to  worship  the 
Lord. 

When  we  think  that  this  is  Easter 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Sunday,  a  very  important  day  to  us 
Latter-day  Saints,  with  the  views 
we  have  of  the  life  of  the  Savior,  it 
brings  to  us  rejoicing  and  thanks- 
giving. Our  hearts  bound  with  hap- 
piness when  we  realize  that  we  have 
been  established  in  these  valleys,  in 
the  fastnesses  of  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, according  to  the  predictions 
of  ancient  as  well  as  modern  proph- 
ets. O  what  joy  it  brings  to  us  when 
we  see  the  tens  of  thousands  of 
honest-hearted,  devoted  people  as- 
sembling together  this  morning  to 
worship  the  Lord,  and  to  be  taught 
of  His  ways,  that  we  might  walk  in 
the  path  which  He  has  marked  out 
for  us  as  His  children.  We  could 
not  help  but  repoice  at  this,  and 
our  hearts  are  made  glad  because 
we  have  confidence  in  those  that  are 
leading  us  as  prophets,  seers,  and 
revelators,  in  this  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times. 

The  great  number  of  people  that 
have  gathered  together  upon  this  oc- 
casion have  come  from  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion,  sixty-seven  stakes 
now  organized,  and  different  states 
of  the  Union.  I  presume  every  stake 
in  the  Church  is  here  represented  ;  I 
have  noticed  individuals  from  Can- 
ada on  the  north  to  Arizona  and 
Old  Mexico  on  the  south,  and  T  take 
it  that  all  have  come  to  headquar- 
ters, to  the  present  center  stake,  that 
we  may  be  taught  of  the  wars  and 
laws  of  the  Lord,  that  we  might  be 
able  to  walk  in  His  paths,  and  re- 
main true  and  faithful  unto  the  end. 

What  joy  and  satisfaction  these 
thoughts  bring  to  us,  when  we  look 
back  over  the  history  of  our  people. 
In  looking  over  this  congregation, 
we  see  pioneers  who  blazed  the  way 
across  the  desert  and  came  inte 
these  valleys  many  years  ago,  and 
helped  to  establish  the  ensign  that 
was  spoken  of  by  one  of  the  ancient 


prophets,  that  should  be  established 
in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  in  the 
midst  of  the  everlasting  hills,  and  all 
nations  should  flow  into  it.  We  feel 
to  rejoice  that  these  prophecies  are 
being  fulfilled,  and  that  we.  the  off- 
spring of  those  great  pioneers,  are 
enjoying  these  blessings,  the  fruits 
of  their  labor.  When  we  reflect 
upon  the  conditions  that  confronted 
them  when  they  came  into  the^e  val- 
leys ;  nothing  but  a  barren  waste, 
not  a  beautiful  shrub  or  a  tree,  ex- 
cept the  few  that  nature  had  pro- 
duced, the  valley  being  desolate  and 
barren,  and  the  only  human  asso- 
ciate that  they  had,  beside  them- 
selves, was  the  Lamanite  or  native 
Indian  ;  and  the  howl  of  the  coyote 
was  heard  on  the  plains  and  the 
prairies.  When  we  look  now  at  the 
condition  of  our  people,  luxury  and 
ease  evident  in  every  valley  in  the 
fastnesses  of  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
and  we  are  enjoying  the  best  and 
happiest  and  most  prosperous  times 
that  have  ever  come  to  our  people 
since  the  settlement  of  these  valleys  ; 
and  when  we  reflect  that  many  were 
buried  upon  the  plains  on  the  jour- 
ney from  the  Missouri  "River — my 
grandfather  was  buried  out  on  the 
lonely  desert,  rolled  up  in  a  blanket 
and  put  into  a  shallow  grave — when 
T  reflect  upon  these  things.  T  feel 
grateful  to  God  for  the  blessings 
that  have  come  to  us. 

I  feel  like  Neohi  of  old.  full  of 
gratitude  and  praise  to  my  Heavenly 
Father,  that  T  have  been  born  of 
goodly  parents,  and  that  T  have  been 
taught  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord, 
that  T  might  appreciate  His  bless- 
ings. And  O  how  I  rejoice  that  the 
hearts  of  my  parents  were  touched 
when  the  humble  elder  came  to  them 
in  their  native  country  and  preached 
unto  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  as  we  understand  and  enjoy 


BISHOP  ORRIN  P.  MILLER. 


17 


it  this  day.  We  rejoice  in  these 
things  because  we  understand  and 
comprehend  them.  My  parents  re- 
ceived the  Gospel  in  their  native 
country,  one  of  them  across  the 
ocean,  in  the  land  of  the  troubled 
nations  of  today,  and  their  coming 
to  this  blessed  country  made  it  pos- 
sible for  me  to  be  present  with  you 
upon  this  occasion.  Why  should  we 
not  rejoice  when  we  realize  these 
things. 

And  now,  my  young  brethren  and 
sisters,  you  who  have  been  born  in 
these  valleys,  born  "under  the  drop- 
pings of  the  sanctuary,"  heirs  to  the 
holy  priesthood  in  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  which  God  has  es- 
tablished in  the  earth,  how  we 
should  rejoice  in  these  things,  and 
always  be  grateful  and  willing  to 
bear  our  testimony  to  the  great 
blessings  which  the  Lord  has  given 
unto  ns  as  His  children.  How  we 
venerate  the  names  and  the  mem- 
ories of  our  aged  parents.  We  do 
not  need  to  hire  men  to  teach  us,  and 
to  proclaim  to  us  that  the  Gospel  is 
true  ;  thousands  of  white-haired  vet- 
erans could  stand  up  in  the  congre- 
gations of  the  Saints  today,  should 
the  President  ask  them,  yea,  ten 
thousand  of  them  could  rise  up  and 
proclaim  in  power  and  authority, 
but  in  a  humble  spirit,  that  they 
know  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
We  have  been  taught  this  truth,  and 
have  received  a  knowledge  of  it,  we 
have  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
that  testimony  has  come  to  us,  hav- 
ing obeyed  the  law  upon  which  these 
blessings  are  predicated.  It  is  not 
guess-work  with  us  ;  we  know  it  for 
a  surety,  we  have  been  converted 
and  convinced  of  these  truths.  We 
have  been  baptized  in  water,  the 
same  as  the  Savior  was  baptized  by 
John,  and  we  have  come  forth  out  of 


the  water,  and  had  hands  laid  upon 
us  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  has  come 
to  us,  and  it  has  been  as  the  prom- 
ises said,  a  constant  companion  and 
guide  to  us,  a  monitor  of  righteous- 
ness and  truth,  that  shall  remain 
with  us  forever,  if  we  are  faithful. 
These  truths  abide  in  our  hearts ; 
we  know  they  are  true,  no  matter 
what  the  world  may  say  about  us 
Latter-clay  Saints. 

I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  they 
have  been  revealed  to  us.  I  have 
endeavored  in  my  youth  to  accept 
every  one  of  them,  as  the  Prophet 
has  revealed  them ;  and  I  bear  my 
testimony  to  you  that  he  has  re- 
vealed no  untruth,  but  everything 
that  he  has  revealed  has  been  the 
truth,  and  truth  is  mighty  and  will 
prevail.  The  Latter-day  Saints  can 
truly  sing  the  beautiful  hymn, 

"High  on  the  mountain  top  truth's  ban- 
ner is  unfurled, 

Ye  nations,  now  look  up,  it  waves  to  all 
the  world." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 

(  Of  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters  and  friends,  in  the  glory 
and  beauty  of  this  beautiful  Easter 
morn,  and  for  the  hope  and  the  as- 
surance which  it  brings  unto  us.  It 
has  been  nearly  eighty-five  years 
now  since  the  inauguration  of  these 
conferences,  such  as  we  are  partici- 
pating in  today.  And  during  that 
time  the  people  of  the  Church  have 
become  firmly  established  in  the 
faith.  They  have  stronger  assur- 
ances and  more  evidences   of  the 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


divinity  of  the  work  than  ever  be- 
fore. 

Men  have  examined,  from  the 
standpoint  of  reason  and  philosophy, 
in  later  years  as  never  before  per- 
haps in  the  history  of  the  world,  the 
great  problems  of  life,  particularly 
the  immortality  of  the  spirit.  And 
it  is  interesting  for  us  to  know  that 
their  deductions  are  in  confirmation 
of  the  teachings  of  the  Church.  I 
rejoice  with  you  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  sent  His  only  begotten  Son 
in  the  flesh  to  dwell  upon  the  earth, 
and  to  give  us  an  example  of  the 
perfect  life,  and  also  that  He  per- 
mitted that  He  should  die  for  the 
sins  of  the  world,  and  that  He  might 
be  resurrected,  as  a  concrete  ex- 
ample of  the  great  doctrine  of  the 
immortality  of  the  spirit  and  the 
resurrection  of  the  body. 

In  the  examination  of  this  ques- 
tion of  the  immortality  of  the  spirit, 
from  the  standpoint  of  reason  and 
science  and  philosophy,  men  have 
considered  the  analogies  we  find  in 
nature  to  those  of  the  resurrection, 
and  I  think  that  the  argument  has 
not  been  stated  more  beautifully 
than  by  the  present  Secretary  of  this 
great  Republic  of  ours.  His  words 
are  familiar  to  many  of  you.  They 
may  seem  trite  even  to  some  of  you 
who  are  very  familiar  with  them, 
but  I  think  it  would  not  be  inappro- 
priate upon  this  Easter  morn,  to 
read  this  brief  and  concise  argu- 
ment, by  way  of  analogy  with  things 
we  find  in  nature.    He  says : 

"If  the  Father  deign  to  touch  with 
divine  power  the  cold  and  pulseless 
heart  of  the  buried  acorn,  and  to  make 
it  burst  forth  from  its  prison  walls 
with  new  life,  will  He  refuse  the  word 
of  hope  to  the  sons  of  men  when  the 
frost  of  winter  comes?  If  matter, 
mute  and  inanimate,  when  touched  by 
the  forces  of  nature  to  a  multitude  of 
forms  can  never  die,  will  the  spirit  of 


man  surfer  annihilation  when  it  has 
paid  a  brief  visit,  like  a  royal  guest, 
to  this  tenement  of  clay?  No,  I  am 
as  sure  that  there  is  another  life  as  I 
am  that  I  live  this  day.  In  Cairo  I 
secured  a  few  grains  of  wheat  that  had 
slumbered  for  more  than  three  thous- 
and years  in  an  Egyptian  tomb.  As  I 
looked  upon  them  this  thought  came 
into  my  mind:  If  one  of  these  grains 
had  been  planted  on  the  banks  of  the 
Nile  the  year  after  it  grew,  and  if  all 
its  lineal  descendants  had  been  planted 
and  replanted  from  that  time  till  now, 
its  progeny  now  would  be  sufficiently 
numerous  to  feed  the  teeming  millions 
of  the  world.  There  is  in  a  grain  of 
wheat  an  invisible  something  that  has 
power  to  discard  the  body  which  we 
see,  and  from  earth  and  air  fashion  a 
new  body  so  much  like  that  one  that 
we  cannot  tell  the  one  from  the  other. 
And  if  this  invisible  germ  of  life  in 
the  grain  of  wheat  can  thus  pass  un- 
numbered through  three  thousand  res- 
urrections, I  shall  not  doubt  that  my 
soul  has  power  to  clothe  itself  with  a 
body  suited  to  its  new  existence,  when 
this  earthly  form  has  crumbled  into 
dust.  If  He  stoops  to  give  the  rose- 
bush, whose  withered  blossoms  float 
upon  the  autumn  breeze,  the  sweet  as- 
surance of  another  springtime,  will  He 
refuse  the  words  of  hope  to  the  sons 
of  men  when  the  frosts  of  winter 
come?  Will  He  leave  neglected  in  the 
earth  the  soul  of  man  made  in  the 
image  of  his  Creator? 

In  a  little  while  we  shall  see  the 
worm  weave  about  itself  a  shroud,  and 
appear  lifeless.  But  not  so.  In  a  short 
time  the  cerement  will  be  broken,  and 
instead  of  the  ugly  worm,  a  beautiful 
winged  creature  will  burst  from  the 
prison  house,  and  with  beautiful  wings 
will  flit  from  flower  to  flower. 

Some  one  has  stated  this  argu- 
ment in  the  form  of  a  question 
which  really  answers  itself:  "Shall 
man  alone,  for  whom  all  else  sur- 
vives, no  resurrection  know?  Shall 
man  alone,  imperial  man,  be  sown 
in  barren  ground,  less  privileged 
than  the  grain  on  which  he  feeds?" 
As  I  say,  the  question  really  con- 
veys its  own  answer. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


19 


But  philosophers  have  gone 
deeper  than  these  mere  analogies  of 
nature,  and  they  have  examined  the 
arguments  made  of  old  to  test  them 
and  to  see  whether  they  hold  good 
in  the  light  of  modern  reason  and 
science.  The  lines  of  the  poet  Addi- 
son, which  immortalize  the  argu- 
ment of  Plato,  have  been  so  exam- 
ined.  Addison  says : 

"Plato,  thou  reasonest  well;  it  must 
be  so" —    [That  is,  it  must  be  that  the 
spirit  is  immortal,  and  survives  the 
death  of  the  body.] 
Else  whence  this  pleasing  hope, 
This  fond  desire,  this  longing  after  im- 
mortality? 
Why  shrinks  the  soul  back  upon  itself, 
And     startles     at     destruction?  Or 
whence 

This  secret  dread  and  inward  horror 
of  falling  into  naught?" 

And  he  answers: 

"  'Tis  the  divinity  that  stirs  within  us. 
'Tis  heaven  itself  that  points  out  an 

hereafter. 
And  intimates  eternity  to  man; 
Eternity,     thou     dreadful  pleasing 

thought." 

As  I  say,  the  argument  of  the 
philosopher  Plato  embodied  in  these 
lines  of  the  poet  has  been  re-exam- 
ined, and  has  been  found  to  be 
sound.  Of  course  there  would  not 
be  planted  in  the  human  soul  for  a 
vain  purpose  the  strongest  desire 
that  exists.  It  would  not  be  planted 
there  only  to  be  mocked. 

One  of  the  syllogysms  upon  the 
subject  of  the  immortality  of  the 
spirit  has  for  its  terms  the  assump- 
tion of  a  reasonable  universe,  of  a 
perfect  Deity,  and  of  the  high  value 
of  human  life.  And.  assuming  these 
premises,  then  the  conclusion  fol- 
lows, with  almost  inevitable  neces- 
sity, that  man  was  not  given  life  for 
a  mere  day.  If  we  predicate  the 
existence  of  a  rational  universe,  peo- 


pled with  creatures  whose  life  is  of 
high  value,  presided  over  by  an  all- 
wise  and  perfect  Father,  then  we  can 
conclude  that  we  are  not  mere 
creatures  of  a  day,  that  we  are  not 
chance  creatures,  to  live  for  a  brief 
span  and  then  pass  into  nothing- 
ness ;  but  we  can  rely  upon  the  con- 
viction that  came  to  the  Prophet  Job 
of  old,  when  he  exclaimed  :  "I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth  and  that 
He  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth,  and  though  after  my  skin 
worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my 
flesh  shall  I  see  God." 

And  why  should  there  not  be  a 
resurrection  of  the  body?  Why 
should  we  not  believe  that  the  spirit 
is  immortal?  One  of  the  greatest 
philosophers  that  America  has  pro- 
duced, John  Fisk,  in  a  work  dedi- 
cated to  his  own  children,  makes  the 
assertion  that  the  assumption  which 
some  people  indulge,  that  the  spirit 
does  not  survive  the  death  of  the 
body  is  the  most  colossal  instance  of 
baseless  assumption  known  to  all  the 
history  of  philosophy. 

One  Dickinson,  a  European  chem- 
ist, speaking  on  this  question  at 
Harvard,  giving  one  of  the  so-called 
Ingersoll  lectures  on  immortality, 
says  that  it  is  mere  dogmatism  to 
say  that  the  soul  does  not  survive 
the  death  of  the  body,  and  that  it  is 
mere  prejudice  or  inertia  to  declare 
that  we  cannot  determine  whether 
or  not  the  soul  does  survive  the 
death  of  the  body.  He  and  other 
philosophers  use  the  word  "soul"  in 
the  same  sense  as  the  word  "spirit" 
is  used  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

A  short  time  ago,  in  Great  Brit- 
ain, there  was  assembled  a  notable 
gathering  of  scientists  and  philoso- 
phers, the  first  in  the  British  king- 
dom, who  came  to  hear  one  of  their 
number,  Sir  Oliver  Lodge,  speak  on 
this  subject.    After  a  very  careful 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


examination  from  a  scientific  and 
philosophical  viewpoint  of  this  sub- 
ject of  the  immortality  of  the  spirit, 
Sir  Oliver  Lodge  said,  "Already  the 
facts  so  examined  have  convinced 
me  that  memory  and  affection  are 
not  limited  to  that  association  with 
matter  by  which  alone  they  can  man- 
ifest themselves  here  and  now,  and 
that  personality  persists  beyond  the 
bodily  death.  The  evidence  to  my 
mind  goes  to  prove  that  discarnate 
intelligence  under  certain  conditions 
may  interact  with  us." 

Investigations  along  that  line  by 
this  philosopher  and  many  of  his  as- 
sociates have  firmly  convinced  them 
of  this  great  underlying  doctrine  of 
Christianity,  the  immortality  of  the 
spirit,  or  as  they  express  it,  the  im- 
mortality of  the  soul. 

There  have  been  many  books 
written  in  recent  times  upon  this 
subject.  Professor  Schuler  of  Har- 
vard has  a  book  on  the  Individual, 
in  which  he  treats  upon  the  persist- 
ency and  endurance  of  this  thing  we 
call  the  individual. 

The  poet  Tennyson  exclaims  : 

"O  human  will  that  shall  endure 
When  all  that  seems  shall  suffer  shock." 

Why  should  not  the  spirit  and  the 
body  be  immortal?  They  are  com- 
posed of  immortal  elements.  There 
is  no  doctrine  better  established  in 
science  than  that  of  the  conservation 
of  energy ;  that  energy,  coarse,  or- 
dinary energy,  cannot  be  annihi- 
lated. And  what  excuse  would 
there  be  to  suppose  then  that  the 
form  of  energy,  the  highest  known 
to  the  universe,  the  individual, 
should  ever  perish.  Matter  is  also 
imperishable.  There  is  no  doctrine 
better  established  in  science  today 
than  that  matter  cannot  be  annihi- 
lated. The  particles  of  which  our 
bodies  are  composed  are  immortal ; 


they  cannot  be  destroyed.  The  form 
may  be  changed,  but  the  particles 
themselves  can  never  be  annihilated. 
And  it  is  the  promise  of  the  Father, 
as  exemplified  in  the  life  of  the 
Lord  and  Master,  that  these  im- 
mortal elements  shall  be  inseparably 
connected  with  the  spirit ;  that  mor- 
tality, that  corruption  shall  be 
clothed  upon  with  incorruption.  One 
writer  of  comparatively  recent  times 
publishes  a  book,  entitled,  "The 
Scientific  Demonstration  of  a  Fu- 
ture Life,"  in  which  he  undertakes 
to  prove  as  a  matter  of  science  that 
the  spirit  survives  the  death  of  the 
body.  It  would  not  be  profitable  to 
take  your  time  to  go  into  the  con- 
tents of  this  book  by  Mr.  Hudson, 
a'  psychologist  of  some  standing. 
His  argument  is  based  upon  the 
thought  that  there  are  some  faculties 
of  the  human  being  that  do  not 
naturally  function  themselves  in  this 
life,  and  his  argument  is  that  there 
must  needs  be  a  future  life  for  these 
same  faculties  to  naturally  function 
themselves. 

We  are  accustomed  to  associate 
the  manifestations  of  the  spirit  with 
the  body  in  which  it  appears,  and  it 
is  difficult  for  us  to  dissociate  in  our 
thoughts  the  combination  that  we 
have  been  thus  accustomed  to. 
United  States  District  Judge  Cross- 
cup,  in  an  argument  some  years  ago 
with  Prof.  Haeckel,  (who  is  said  to 
be  the  only  materialist  today  who 
has  delved  deeply  into  psychological 
phenomena  and  not  convinced  him- 
self of  the  immortality  of  the  spirit) 
Judge  Crosscup  says  that  if  one's 
knowledge  of  the  human  voice  were 
associated  only  with  the  telephone, 
if  all  one's  information  of  the  hu- 
man voice,  or  of  singing,  had  come 
to  him  by  way  of  the  telephone,  it 
would  be  a  very  natural  thing  for 
him  to  associate  the  human  voice 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 


21 


with  the  telephone,  and  for  him  to 
erroneously  conclude  that  if  that 
instrument  were  destroyed  that  the 
human  voice  itself  would  cease. 
And  he  says — that  it  is  no  more  rea- 
sonable to  assume  that  the  mani- 
festations of  the  spirit  are  thus  in- 
separably connected  with  the  human 
body,  than  to  conclude  in  the  cir- 
cumstances supposed  that  the  hu- 
man voice  is  inseparably  connected 
with  the  telephone. 

Philosophers  have  gone  into  the 
question  of  the  relation  of  the  brain 
to  thought,  and  have  discussed  the 
question  whether  thought  is  a  func- 
tion of  the  brain  and  some  have  con- 
cluded that  if  thought  can  be  in  any 
sense  considered  a  function  of  the 
brain  it  is  not  a  function  of  the 
brain  in  the  sense  that  steam  is  a 
function  of  the  tea  kettle,  but  rather 
it  is  a  permissive  function  or  trans- 
missive  function  such  as  these  panes 
of  glass  perform  in  transmitting  the. 
rays  of  light  and  heat  into  this  room. 
If  the  medium  is  obscured,  the 
function  will  be  imperfectly  per- 
formed, and  yet  the  window  glass 
is  not  the  creator  of  the  light.  Be- 
yond the  pane  of  glass  is  the  great 
orb  of  day,  and  while  this  medium 
performs  that  function,  either 
perfectly  or  imperfectly,  according 
to  its  nature  and  condition  of  clean- 
liness, still  the  sun  and  not  the  glass 
is  the  source  of  light  and  heat.  So 
the  brain  is  a  medium  through 
which  the  spirit  manifests  itself. 

But  I  rejoice  with  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  not 
necessary  for  us  to  go  to  the, reason- 
ing of  science,  or  the  deductions  of 
philosophy  for  assurance  upon  this 
subject.  It  may  be  of  interest,  par- 
ticularly to  the  young  who  may  not 
be  as  firmly  founded  in  the  truth 
as  some  of  the  older  brethren  and 
sisters  are.    But  with  the  older  por- 


tion, they  know  that  the  Lord  lives, 
that  this  is  His  Church,  that  we  are 
His  children,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  He  laid  down  His 
life  in  redemption  of  His  children, 
and  at  the  same  time  gave  us  the 
concrete  assurance,  that  the  body 
does  not  absolutely  perish  with  its 
seeming  death,  that  we  can  say  of 
the  apparently  lifeless  body,  "not 
dead  but  sleeping,"  and  be  assured 
that  the  spirit  of  man  endures,  and 
shall  endure  for  all  the  ages  to  come. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  keep 
us  in  the  faith,  and  in  the  guiding, 
sustaining  and  blessed  assurances 
which  the  Gospel  gives  unto  us,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

A  double  quartet  of  ladies,  of 
Taylorsville  ward  choir,  sang, 
"Easter  Morn." 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 

(President  of  Mexican  Mission.) 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  meet  with  you  today  in  con- 
ference, and  I  sincerely  trust  that 
during  the  few  moments  I  occupy  I 
may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
direct  my  remarks  ;  and  I  ask  you 
to  give  me  your  sympathy,  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  Lord  may 
aid  me.  I  fully  realize  that  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  a  congregation,  be  they 
Latter-day  Saints  or  people  of  the 
world,  without  the  Spirit  of  God  to 
direct,  one  is  unable  to  preach  the 
Gospel  in  a  way  that  would  be  in- 
structive, and  that  would  be  accept- 
able to  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  truly 
a  remarkable  people,  and  this  great 
gathering  today  attests  the  remark- 
ableness  of  the  Latter-day  work,  es- 
tablished through  the  instrumental- 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ity  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
The  lives  of  the  great  body  of  re- 
ligious worshipers,  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  attest  the  fact  that  they 
are  a  peculiar  people,  that  they  are 
not  of  the  world.  This  is  exactly  as 
it  should  be,  for  the  Savior  said  to 
His  disciples,  when  He  labored  with 
them,  that  if  they  were  of  the  world 
the  world  would  love  its  own,  but 
because  they  were  not  of  the  world 
they  were  despised  by  the  world. 

Our  peculiarity  consists  in  differ- 
ent purposes,  in  a  different  outlook 
for  the  future,  in  different  aspira- 
tions, in  different  habits  in  life.  If 
we  are  living  up  to  the  professions 
that  we  make,  our  lives  are  cleaner 
and  better  than  those  of  the  world 
that  surround  us.  The  Savior  said 
to  His  disciples,  when  He  was  with 
them,  that  if  their  righteousness  did 
not  exceed  the  righteousness  of  the 
scribes  and  the  pharisees,  in  no  man- 
ner should  they  inherit  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  The  same  is  true  today ; 
with  the  great  knowledge  that  we 
have  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  with  the  revelations  we  have  re- 
ceived of  the  Lord  as  to  how  we 
ought  to  conduct  our  lives,  if  our 
righteousness  is  not  greater  than 
the  righteousness  of  the  people  that 
have  not  received  these  things,  I 
should  say,  in  the  words  of  the 
Savior,  that  in  no  wise  can  we  in- 
herit the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

We  are  living,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  a  day  of  the  fulfillment  of 
prophecy.  I  will  read  to  you  just 
a  little  from  the  24th  chapter  of 
Matthew.  Speaking  of  the  Savior, 
it  says : 

"And  as  He  sat  upon  the  Mount  of 
Olives,  the  disciples  came  unto  Him 
privately,  saying:  Tell  us  when  these 
things  shall  be?    And  what  shall  be 


the  sign  of  Thy  coming  and  of  the  end 
of  the  world?  And  Jesus  answered 
and  said  unto  them:  Take  heed  that 
no  man  deceive  you,  for  many  shall 
come  in  My  name,  saying  I  am  the 
Christ,  and  shall  deceive  many.  And 
ye  shall  hear  of  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars;  see  that  ye  be  not  troubled,  for 
all  these  things  must  come  to  pass, 
but  the  end  is  not  yet.  For  nation 
shall  rise  against  nation,  and  kingdom 
against  kingdom,  and  there  shall  be 
famines  and  pestilences  and  earth- 
quakes in  divers  places.  All  these  are 
the  beginning  of  sorrows.  Then  shall 
they  deliver  you  up  to  be  afflicted,  and 
shall  kill  you,  and  ye  shall  be  hated  of 
all  nations,  for  my  name's  sake.  And 
then  shall  many  be  offended,  and  shall 
bestray  one  another,  and  shall  hate 
one  another.  And  many  false  prophets 
shall  rise,  and  shall  deceive  many.  And 
because  iniquity  shall  abound  the  love 
of  many  shall  wax  cold.  But  he  that 
shall  endure  to  the  end,  the  same  shall 
be  saved." 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  particu- 
larly call  your  attention  to  this  part 
of  the  Savior's  prophecies  that  we 
are  w  itnessing  the  fulfillment  of,  for 
many  things  have  occurred,  since 
the  great  war  in  Europe  began,  that 
signify  the  fact,  that  the  great  con- 
flict that  is  going  on  in  the  world, 
and  the  great  earthquakes  that  have 
taken  place  during  our  short  lives, 
the  remarkable  manifestations  of 
those  great  calamities  in  the  earth 
directly  prove  that  they  are  the  ful- 
fillment of  the  prophecies  of  the 
Lord.  I  shall,  however,  during  the 
short  time  that  I  stand  before  you, 
call  your  attention  to  another  part 
of  the  prophecies  of  the  Lord,  that 
pertain  particularly  to  us  as  a  peo- 
ple, and  that  concern  us  even  more 
than  the  destruction  that  is  going  on 
in  Europe :  it  is  contained  in  verse 
14  of  the  same  chapter:  "And  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness unto  all  nations,  and  then  shall 
the  end  come." 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 


23 


This  has  been,  in  some  measure, 
fulfilled.  This  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom has  been  set  up  in  these  latter 
days,  with  all  of  the  gifts  and  powers 
that  ever  pertained  to  it  in  any  dis- 
pensation in  which  it  has  been  upon 
the  earth,  and  it  has  been  preached 
in  many  of  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
But  still  there  is  a  great  work  lying 
before  this  people  in  carrying  the 
gospel  of  salvation  unto  millions 
who  have  never  intelligently  under- 
stood the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  have  believed  in  false  doc- 
trines, and  have  followed  after 
teachers  who  have  taught  for  doc- 
trines the  commandments  of  men. 
They  have  not  come  in  contact  with 
the  sweet  spirit  that  emanates  from 
a  missionary  clothed  with  the  power 
of  the  holy  priesthood  to  preach  the 
Gospel  of  faith  in  God,  the  Father, 
in  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
atonement,  (which  was  so  beauti- 
fully illustrated  in  the  remarks  made 
this  morning  by  Brother  Hart,)  and 
of  faith  unto  repentance,  and  bap- 
tism for  the  remission  of  sin.  Mil- 
lions of  people  have  never  had  these 
things  brought  aright  to  their  atten- 
tion as  the  Lord  has  destined  that 
it  should  be.  It  is  our  mission  as  a 
people,  to  preach  this  gospel  to  the 
world ;  and  we  should  enthuse  our 
brethren  with  the  desire  to  carry 
this  message  to  those  millions  that 
do  not  know  the  truth.  There  are 
thousands  of  men  in  this  Church,  as 
stated  by  Bishop  Miller,  that  are  in 
every  way  capable  of  delivering  to 
the  world  the  truth  in  regard  to  the 
religion  that  will  save  them ;  there 
are  men  in  this  congregation  that 
could  do  this  work  effectively  and 
well.  But,  are  our  minds  led  out 
along  this  line?  are  we  thinking  of 
the  great  work  that  devolves  upon 
us?  are  we  shaping  our  affairs  to 
that  end?    I  refer  particularly  to 


members  of  the  Seventies'  quorums, 
as  they  are  expected  to  be  minute 
men  in  the  work  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  world. 
Are  you  preparing  yourselves,  and 
shaping  your  affairs  so  that  when 
the  call  comes  you  can  be  ambassa- 
dors of  life  and  salvation  to  people 
that  know  not  the  truth? 

This  gospel  is  given  to  the  world 
for  the  salvation  of  all  mankind, 
providing  they  will  live  according 
to  its.  principles.  But,  how  can  they 
belive  in  Christ  of  whom  they  have 
not  heard,  and  how  can  they  hear 
except  authorized  ministers  be  sent 
to  teach  them  that  Christ  is  the 
means  of  salvation  to  the  world  ?  It 
devolves  upon  us  who  have  received 
the  truth  to  take  it  to  the  world.  It 
is  not  to  be  taken  to  one  nation  only, 
it  is  to  be  taken  to  all  the  nations 
of  the  world,  according  to  the  word 
of  the  Savior  that  I  have  read  here. 
It  is  a  common  thing  for  many  peo- 
ple to  become  narrow-minded.  It 
was  a  common  affliction  among  the 
converted  Jews,  they  believed  that 
the  Savior's  mission  was  particular- 
ly to  them,  and  they  believed  that 
outside  of  them  there  was  no  fav- 
ored people  of  the  Lord.  It  took  a 
revelation  from  the  Lord,  and  a 
great  manifestation  to  Peter  to  con- 
vince him  that  the  Gospel  was  also 
to  the  Gentiles,  and  that  it  was  not 
for  him  to  call  unclean  that  that  the 
Lord  had  said  was  clean.  My  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  this  work  is  not  only 
to  the  people  of  the  same  nation  and 
race  as  ourselves,  it  is  our  mission 
to  carry  this  message  of  salvation  to 
all  the  world.  Let  us  take  into  con- 
sideration that  all  mankind  are  the 
children  of  our  Father  in  heaven^ 
and  all  mankind  will  have,  accord- 
ing to  the  unchangeable  decrees  of" 
our  Father  in  heaven,  the  privileges, 
of    coming    into     His  kingdom, 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


through  this  gospel  that  we  have  re- 
ceived.   Peter  said  that  he  knew  of 
a  certainty,  after  he  had  received 
that  great  manifestation,  that  God 
was  no  respecter  of  persons,  but 
that,  out  of  every  nation,  he  that 
would  obey  Him,  and  work  right- 
eousness,   would    be    accepted  of 
Him ;  and  that  is  just  as  true  today 
as  it  ever  was.    True  it  is  that  there 
are  some  nations  less  favored  of  the 
Lord  than  others.    If  you  will  read 
the  history  of  those  people,  and  the 
hand  dealings  of  the    Lord  with 
them,  you  will  find  that  their  present 
conditions  are  a  result  of  their  fail- 
ure to  receive  the  Gospel  when  it 
has  been  proclaimed  unto  them,  but, 
in  every  instance,  you  will  also  find 
that  God's  justice  has  been  manifest 
unto  the  people.  This  is  particularly 
true  of  the  people  with  whom  T  am 
laboring,  the  Lamanites.   They  have 
been  brought  to  the  condition  in 
which  they  are  today  because  of  dis- 
obedience in  the  past.   Rut  the  Lord 
has  said  He  would,  in  His  own  due 
time,  give  them  another  trial,  an- 
other chance.    If  you  will  take  the 
time  to  read  it,  you  will  discover 
that  the  word  of  the  Lord  should  go 
to  them,  from  the  Gentile  nations 
to  bring  them  back  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  Christ. 

I  do  not  desire,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  occupy  much  more  of  the 
time  this  morning ;  but  I  wish  to 
emphasize  the  fact  that  the  Lord 
will  fulfill  His  promises,  and  that  in 
His  own  way,  in  His  own  time,  and 
just  as  is  shown  very  plainly  in  III 
Nephi,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I 
wish  to  read  a  few  words  to  show 
'that  the  Lord  will  fulfill  all  of  His 
promises  to  His  children,  but  He 
will  do  it  in  His  own  way.  It  is  well 
for  us  to  accept  the  Lord's  way.  and 
make  ourselves  willing  and  ready  to 
work  in  it. 


And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you 
that  when  the  Lord  shall  see  fit  in 
His  wisdom  that  these  sayings  shall 
come  unto  the  Gentiles,  according  to 
His  word,  then  ye  may  know  that  the 
covenant  which  the  Father  hath  made 
with  the  children  of  Israel,  concern- 
ing their  restoration  to  the  lands  of 
their  inheritance,  is  already  beginning 
to  be  fulfilled;  and  ye  may  know  that 
the  words  of  the   Lord  which  have 
been   spoken   by  the   holy  prophets 
shall  all  be  fulfilled;  and  ve  need  not 
say  that  the  Lord  delays  His  coming 
unto  the  children  of  Israel;  and  ye 
need  not  imagine  in  your  hearts  that 
the  words  which  have  been  spoken 
are  vain,  for  behold,  the  Lord  will  re- 
member His  covenant  which  He  hath 
made  unto  His  people  of  the  house 
of  Israel.   And  when  ye  shall  see  these 
things  coming  forth  among  you,  then 
ye  need  not  any  longer  spurn  at  the 
doings  of  the  Lord,  for  the  sword  of 
His  justice  is  in  His  right  hand,  and 
behold  at  that  day,  if  ye  shall  spurn 
at  His  doings,  He  will  cause  that  it 
shall  soon  overtake  you.     Wo  unto 
him  that  spurneth  at  the  doings  of 
the  Lord;  yea,  woe  unto  him  that  shall 
deny  the  Christ  and  His  works;  yea, 
woe  unto  him  that  shall  deny  the  rev- 
elations of  the  Lord,  and  that  shall 
say  the  Lord  no  longer  worketh  by 
revelation  or  by  prophecy,  or  by  gifts, 
or  by  tongues,  or  by  healings,  or  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  yea,  and 
woe  unto  him  that  shall  say  at  that 
day,  to  get  gain,  that  there  can  be  no 
miracle  wrought  by  Jesus  Christ;  for 
he  that  doeth  this  shall  become  like 
unto  the  son  of  perdition,  for  whom 
there  was  no  mercy,  according  to  the 
word  of  Christ.     Yea.  and  ye  need 
not  any  longer  hiss,  nor  spurn,  nor 
make  game  of  the  Jews,  nor  any  of' 
the  remnant  of  the  House  of  Tsrael, 
for  behold  the  Lord  remembereth  His 
covenant  unto  them,  and  He  will  do 
unto  them  according  to  that  which  He 
hrtth  sworn.    Therefore  ye  need  not 
suppose  that   ye  can  turn   the  right 
hand  of  the  Lord  unto  the  left,  that 
lie  may  not  execute  judgment  unto 
the   house   of   Tsrael."     (Ill  Nephi, 
29  chapter.) 

How  many  arc  there  of  us  who 
are  entirely  guiltless  of  the  things 
that  the  Lord  has  told  in  this  chap- 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON. 


25 


ter  that  we  should  not  do?  How 
many  of  us  are  entirely  guiltless  of 
looking  down  upon  the  Jews  and 
upon  certain  branches  of  the  House 
of  Israel,  and  how  many  of  us  are 
there  that  do  not  believe  implicitly 
in  our  hearts  that  the  Lord  is  going 
to  fulfill  these  mighty  and,  as  they 
look  to  us,  almost  impossible  prom- 
ises unto  those  people? 

1  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  word  is  true,  and 
this  book  brought  forth  by  the  in- 
strumentality of  Joseph  Smith,  is  a 
revelation  of  God  unto  the  world. 
And  I  testify  that  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  know  that,  through  the 
power  which  God  gave  him,  He 
established  this  Church,  and  it  shall 
not  be  taken  away  again,  but  it  will 
go  on  to  perfection,  and  those  who 
do  not  go  with  it  will  be  lost,  be- 
cause the  Church  is  not  going  to 
be  left  to  any  other  people.  I 
testify,  furthermore,  that  I  know 
that  those  who  have  governed  the 
Church,  and  led  us  up  to  the  pres- 
ent time,  have  been  inspired  of  God. 
I  testify  that  I  have  received  man- 
ifestations, that  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
who  presides  over  this  conference, 
and  the  Church,  at  the  present  time, 
is  a  man  inspired  of  God,  and  he 
leads  this  Church  by  the  inspiration 
and  Spirit  of  the  Almighty.  When 
I  have  heard  criticism,  I  have  told 
the  critics  that  their  criticism  will 
bring  them  condemnation  if  they  do 
not  repent.  God  will  not  permit  His 
servant  to  guide  this  Church  into 
error,  it  is  going  to  be  guided  to 
success.  Again  I  say,  Joseph  F. 
Smith  is  inspired  of  the  Lord  in 
what  he  does  in  the  government  of 
this  Church.  May  the  Lord  help 
us  to  realize  our  duties  in  this 
Church,  and  perform  them  faith- 


fully, is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

"O  Divine  Redeemer,"  was  sung 
by  Sister  Ada  Russell. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

(Assistant  Church  Historian.) 

The  limited  time  at  my  command 
will  only  permit  me  to  express  a 
thought  which  has  come  to  me  while 
the  brethren  have  been  speaking  to 
us.  It  may  be  based  upon  the  say- 
ing of  the  Savior,  when  He,  in  His 
famous  sermon  on  the  mount, 
speaks  as  follows:  "Ye  shall  know 
them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather 
grapes  of  thorns  or  figs  of  thistles? 
Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth 
forth  good  fruit,  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit." 

The  successful  affairs  of  this  life 
are  as  a  rule  made  up  of  happy 
mediums.  To  illustrate :  If  a  man 
spends  his  money  in  a  very  liberal 
and  imprudent  way,  we  call  him  a 
spendthrift.  If  he  is  too  close  with 
his  means,  we  are  tempted  to  call 
him  a  miser.  We  admire  the  happy 
medium  when  a  man  is  neither  a 
spnedthrift  nor  a  miser.  Again  we 
sometimes  find  men  who  to  all  ap- 
pearances are  too  self-important, 
who  assume  a  certain  extreme  dig- 
nity, which  conveys  the  idea  to 
others,  that  they  consider  themselves 
better  than  other  people.  As  a  con- 
trast to  these  we  find  people  who, 
figuratively  speaking,  crawl  in  a 
hole,  who  are 'too  modest,  who  dare 
not  assert  themselves  in  anything, 
and  who  dare  not  step  to  the  front 
to  show  their  real  ability  and  the 
talent  which  God  has  given  them. 
These  are  two  extremes  which  most 
people  do  not  admire.  We  like  a 
man  who  does  not  exhibit  either  of 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


these  extremes — who  is  not  too 
modest,  nor  too  much  inclined  to 
self-assertion.  Most  of  the  successes 
which  the  human  race  have  achieved 
in  any  of  the  affairs  of  life  have  been 
based  on  a  happy  medium. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  by  most 
unprejudiced  people  referred  to  as 
a  good  and  honest  community. 
Sometimes,  perhaps,  we  may  over- 
draw the  mark  in  regard  to  our  own 
virtues  and  goodness.  But  true  it  is 
that  we  are  not  the  people  that  our 
enemies  claim  that  we  are,  when 
they  endeavor  to  paint  us  black,  and 
make  us  appear  real  wicked.  Per- 
haps at  times  we  go  to  the  extreme 
in  doting  on  and  speaking  of  our 
purity  and  virtues,  for  even  in  that 
regard  there  is  necessarily  a  happy 
medium  and  a  certain  way  of  get- 
ting at  the  truth. 

I  have  given  this  matter  quite  se- 
rious attention  while  I,  during  the 
past  years,  and  particularly  during 
the  last  few  months,  have  been  bus- 
ily engaged  in  perusing  the  history 
of  the  Church,  or  recording  the  ac- 
tions of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
these  valleys.  I  have  patiently  gath- 
ered together  the  events  of  each  day 
in  regular  chronological  succession 
from  the  very  day  the  pioneers  first 
arrived  in  the  Valley  of  the  Great 
Salt  Lake  in  July,  1847,  to  the  close 
of  the  Nineteenth  Century,  and  I 
find  this  truth  proven  beyond  all 
doubt  and  beyond  every  attempt  at 
successful  contradiction,  that  there 
has  from  the  beginning  been  a  great 
difference  in  the  general  morals  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  when  they 
have  been  alone  in  these  mountains 
and  when  they  have  been  associated 
with  other  people  not  of  their  faith. 
In  other  words,  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  ( when  they  have  had  an  op- 
portunity to  regulate  their  affairs 
according  to  their  own  religious  and 


moral  convictions  or  practical 
creed),  have  been  far  better  than  at 
other  times  when  they,  in  a  sense, 
have  been  helpless  in  the  hands  of 
others,  or  associated  with  more 
worldly-minded  and  less  God-fear- 
ing neighbors. 

From  the  day  of  the  arrival  of  the 
pioneers  here  in  1847  till  the  month 
of  June,  1849,  the  "Mormons'"  were 
alomst  alone  in  these  valleys.  There 
was  scarcely  any  one  here  who  did 
not  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is 
very  interesting  indeed  to  read  of 
the  good  morals  and  tenets  of  the 
people  as  they  were  reduced  to 
practice  at  that  time — a  people  who 
showed  by  their  actions  that  they 
were  indeed  a  God-fearing  people, 
though  suffering  with  poverty  and 
want  and  beset  with  very  many  diffi- 
culties incident  to  western  pioneer 
life.  But  they  were  a  moral  and 
virtuous  people.  Scarcely  an  oath 
or  anything  tending  to  vulgarity  or 
blasphemy  were  heard  in  the  streets 
of  Great  Salt  Lake  City  in  these 
early  days.  There  was  no  drunken- 
ness  or  immoral  practices  to  speak 
of.  The  vices  that  try  good  men's 
souls  and  which  are  so  detrimental 
to  the  progress  of  a  moral  com- 
munity were  almost  unknown. 

But  in  the  year  1849,  after  the 
gold  had  been  discovered  in  Cali- 
fornia, a  certain  class  of  travelers 
commenced  to  pass  through  the 
Great  Salt  Lake  Valley.  Some  of 
these  were  very  good  people,  who 
not  only  behaved  themselves  like 
gentlemen,  but  who  also  spoke 
truthfully  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
calling  them  an  honest  and  a  God- 
fearing people.  Some  of  these  trans- 
continental travelers  who  had  lis- 
tened to  slanderous  reports  circulat- 
ing in  the  East  were  indeed  sur- 
prised to  find  that  the  "Mormons" 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON. 


27 


in  the  far-off  valley  of  the  Great 
Salt  Lake  consisted  chiefly  of  men 
and  women  of  most  excellent  char- 
acter and  morals.  Some  of  these 
travelers,  however,  were  men  of  bad 
morals  who  endeavored  to  introduce 
vice  of  a  serious  nature  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Thus,  barring  a 
few  isolated  cases,  the  year  1849 
witnessed  the  first  introduction  into 
these  valleys  of  real  blasphemy, 
theft,  robbery,  and  other  things  re- 
pugnant to  the  feelings  of  a  true 
Christian. 

In  course  of  time,  or  after  the 
lapse  of  a  few  years,  the  evils  intro- 
duced into  the  midst  of  our  people 
by  these  travelers  (who  were  mostly 
bound  for  California  and  Oregon) 
subsided,  and  the  "Mormons"  were 
again  left  almost  alone  for  a  season. 
During  that  period  we  enjoyed  com- 
paratively speaking  immunity  from 
nearly  all  the  vices  prevailing  at  that 
time  in  what  we  generally  called  the 
outside  world,  and  the  "Mormons" 
in.  the  Great  Salt  Lake  Valley  again 
made  a  record  that  reads  well  as 
matters  of  history  at  the  present 
time. 

These  happy  conditions,  however, 
were  overturned  to  a  very  great  ex- 
tent in  the  year  1858,  when  the  so- 
called  Johnston  Army  entered  the 
Great  Salt  Lake  Valley.  There  were 
about  six  thousand  American  troops 
and  upwards  of  eleven  thousand 
camp-followers.  Most  of  the  latter 
were  men  of  questionable  character, 
and  there  were  also  a  few  women 
whose  morals  were  calculated  to 
disgrace  any  community  who  would 
encourage  their  nefarious  practices  ; 
and  yet  these  same  people  claimed 
that  they  came  to  Utah  to  teach  the 
"Mormons"  better  morals.  The 
complaint  had  been  made  against  us 
in  the  East  that  we  were  not  moral, 
and  that  we  were  the  opposite  to  a 


,good  people.  Hence,  these  men  and 
women,  to  whom  I  refer,  were  sent 
here,  or  came  here  of  their  own  free 
will  and  choice,  to  introduce  a 
higher  and  better  civilization  than 
the  one  which  had  existed  before. 
Without  going  into  details  I  will 
simply  say  in  this  connection  that 
for  the  time  being  a  most  wonderful 
change  took  place  in  the  moral 
status  of  certain  localities  in  this 
intermountain  region,  particularly  in 
Salt  Lake  City  and  Camp  Floyd 
where  most  of  the  soldiers  and 
camp-followers  made  their  head- 
quarters. Quarreling,  fighting,  steal- 
ing, robbing  and  killing  became 
common  occurrences  among  the 
non-"Mormon"  element  in  these 
valleys.  One  old  settler  said,  "I 
have  now  lived  in  Provo  ten  years 
and  I  have  heard  more  blasphemy 
and  witnessed  more  vice  in  Salt 
Lake  City  in  twenty-four  hours  than 
I  have  heard  or  witnessed  all  the 
time  I  have  lived  in  the  'Mormon' 
town  of  Provo." 

I  do  not  desire  to  draw  an  ex- 
treme picture  of  these  changing  con- 
ditions. I  desire  simply  to  refer  to 
facts  and  present  the  truth  as  I  find 
it  recorded  in  the  annals  of  a  people 
who  have  ever  been  known  to  keep 
good  records.  Nor  do  I  take  as  my 
authority  "Mormon"  statements 
alone,  but  the  statements  of  other 
honest  men  and  women  who  were 
not  afraid  to  tell  the  truth  and-  to 
speak  of  things  as  they  found  them. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  by  no 
means  a  perfect  people,  but  what- 
ever may  be  said  in  regard  to  the 
"Mormons"  on  the  one  hand  and 
the  non-"Mormon"  element  on  the 
other,  the  facts  are  these  that  at  such 
times  when  the  "Mormons"  have 
been  almost  the  sole  inhabitants  of 
these  mountain  valleys  and  have 
lived  according  to  the  religion  of  the 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Latter-day  Saints — the  principles  or 
creed  known  as  "Moimonism," 
which  we  call  the  true  Christian  re- 
ligion— they  have  excelled  in  purity, 
honesty  and  sobriety.  We  have,  in 
other  words,  fostered  a  practical 
Christian  civilization  whenever  we 
have  been  let  alone  and  given  liberty 
to  show  our  real  characteristics. 

Passing  on  in  my  observations  I 
will  merely  state  that  after  the  epi- 
sodes of  1858  and  the  few  following 
years  most  of  the  soldiers  who  had 
arrived  in  the  Valley  were  ordered 
away  to  participate  in  the  war  be- 
tween the  North  and  the  South,  and 
most  of  the  camp-followers  left  the 
territory  about  the  same  time.  After 
their  departure  we  had  another  sea- 
son of  peace,  comparatively  speak- 
ing, and  Christian  civilization,  in 
which  purity  of  life  again  played  a 
most  prominent  part.  This  condi- 
tion continued  until  the  year  1869, 
when  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad 
was  finished,  and  with  that  event 
came  the  introduction  into  Utah  of 
a  civilization  of  which  we  have 
never  been  proud.  Then  it  was  that 
we  got  the  perpetual  saloon,  the  per- 
petual house  of  ill-fame  and  those 
other  perpetual  things  of  evil  which 
we  often  shudder  to  think  of,  espe- 
cially when  we  realize  what  it  means 
as  temptations  and  inducements  to 
out  young  people. 

After  a  while  conditions  again 
changed  a  little  for  the  better.  Our 
people  succeeding  to  a  considerable 
extent  to  maintain  law  and  order  in 
a  mixed  community.  But  then  came 
the  remarkable  year  of  1890  when 
the  "Mormons"  lost  permanent  con- 
trol of  Salt  Lake  City,  Ogden  and  a 
few  other  towns.  Since  that  time 
we  have  had  to  submit  to  the  pres- 
ence of  nearly  all  the  vices,  evils, 
and  abominations  which  are  cursing 
nearly  every  large  city  in  the  whole 


so-called  civilized  world.  We  are 
endeavoring  to  keep  our  young  peo- 
ple as  well  as  ourselves  away  from 
evil  doing,  but  in  many  instances  we 
are  not  as  successful  as  we  would 
like  to  be. 

From  the  various  examples  which 
I  have  quoted  from  history  we  can 
judge  pretty  well  of  "the  fruits  of 
the  tree."  We  have  had  the  priv- 
ilege of  looking  upon  the  different 
pictures  of  conditions  in  the  differ- 
ent periods  of  our  territorial  and 
state  history.  We  can  compare 
notes  with  conditions  when  the  in- 
habitants of  Utah  were  almost  pure- 
ly "Mormon"  and  when  they  have 
been  mixed  with  other  people. 

While  I  do  not  desire  to  laud  my 
people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the 
sky  as  a  perfect  people,  I  neverthe- 
less glory  in  telling  the  truth.  I 
have  belonged  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  since  I  was  a  little  boy  and  I 
love  my  people.  I  cannot  feel  satis- 
fied to  stand  silently  by  always, 
when  I  witness  the  wrongdoing  of 
those  who  oppose  us  and  listen  to 
the  vituperation  and  false  accusa- 
tions which  come  from  the  outside 
world  or  from  people  who  do  not 
know  us,  or.  worst  of  all,  from  those 
enemies  in  our  own  midst  who  know 
that  they  are  not  telling  the  truth. 
Once  in  a  while  I  feel  like  raising 
my  voice  against  the  false  accusa- 
tions concocted  against  us  and  en- 
deavor to  make  such  corrections  as 
are  within  my  power. 

Without  exaggeration  and  with- 
out stating  anything  bordering  on 
the  extreme  the  facts  are,  that  when 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  had  an 
opportunity  to  live  by  ourselves  and 
to  regulate  our  domestic  and  civil 
affairs  according  to  our  belief  and 
preferences,  we  have  ever  built  up 
model  Christian  communities.  On 
the  other  hand,  when  we  have  been 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION . 


29 


more  or  less  in  the  power  and  under 
the  influence  of  people  opposed  to 
us,  we  have  to  a  greater  or  less  ex- 
tent become  mixed  up  with  worldly 
affairs;  for  with  our  best  efforts  to 
steer  clear  of  the  "evils  and  vices  in- 
troduced amongst  us,  we  have  occa- 
sionally yielded  through  weakness 
to  that  which  is  forbidden  in  the 
Word  of  God. 

In  conclusion  I  assert  that  history 
bears  out  the  fact  that  the  fruit  of 
the  "Mormon"  tree  is  good,  far  bet- 
ter than  the  fruit  plucked  from  the 
so-called  up-to-date  Christian  civili- 
zation which  has  been  introduced 
amongst  us  from  time  to  time. 
Whenever  we  have  been  mixed  up 
with  outside  influences  our  high 
standard  of  morals  has  invariably 
been  reduced. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  May  the  Lord  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father,  enable  us  to  be 
faithful  and  true  to  the  command- 
ments which  He  has  given  us  and  to 
the  teachings  of  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  whom  we  adore  and  in  whom 
we  believe.  May  we  continue  to  be 
a  practical  Christian  people,  and 
while  we  are  at  the  present  time  a 
mixed  community,  let  us  take  a  con- 
sistent stand  and  be  determined  to 
serve  the  God  of  our  fathers,  remain 
true  to  our  covenants,  and  ever  have 
our  eyes  and  ambition  directed  to- 
ward the  Kingdom  of  God.  While 
others  may  do  wrong,  let  us  en- 
deavor to  retain  our  characteristics 
of  purity,  honesty  and  uprightness. 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION. 

(President  of  Central  States  Mission.) 

I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
what  it  means,  in  some  measure  at 
least,  to  occupy  this   position,  ad- 


dressing an  audience  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  many  of  whom  have 
been  reared  in  the  Church,  and 
filled  missions  abroad ;  I  realize  the 
responsibility  that  attends  the 
speaker  and  the  audience  together, 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  di- 
rect the  words  of  the  one  who  ad- 
dresses them. 

I  feel  very  weak  in  attempting  to 
speak  to  you  this  morning,  but  I 
have  been  interested  in  the  remarks 
that  have  been  made  by  the  speakers 
at  this  session  of  the  conference  ; 
and  though  we  remain  only  a  few 
moments  longer  in  this  meeting,  I 
trust  we  may  find  it  possible  to  com- 
mune with  each  other  so  that  we  will 
all  be  edified  and  blessed. 

I  have  been  interested  in  the  mis- 
sionary work  for  a  good  long  while, 
and  have  learned  what  it  means  to 
enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  In 
speaking  to  the  public,  either  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  or  those  who  are 
not  termed  Saints,  I  have  found  that 
all  men  are  more  or  less  interested  in 
religion,  if  you  can  get  men  to  gath- 
er their  thoughts  for  a  short  time, 
and  concentrate  them  upon  the 
many  gifts  and  blessings  that  the 
Lord  has  given  His  children  on  this 
earth.  I  have  never  met  a  man  in 
my  experience  but  what  wanted  to 
be  saved,  but  desired  that,  sometime 
in  the  future,  he  might  dwell  with 
our  Father  in  heaven.  I  am  re- 
minded always  of  the  words  of  the 
Savior  when  He  appeared  unto 
Mary  and  told  her  to  go  and  tell 
her  brethren.  He  told  her  to  touch 
Him  not,  for,  said  He,  "I  am  not 
yet  ascended  to  my  Father ;  but  go 
to  my  brethren,  and  say  unto  them, 
I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and  your 
Father ;  and  to  my  God,  and  your 
God."  All  men  and  women  in  the 
earth  are  children  of  the  same  God, 
and  are  entitled  to  His  blessings  ac- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cording  to  their  works ;  and  as  a 
result  of  their  works  they  will  be 
rewarded  at  some  future  time.  Here 
where  we  have  grown  up,  the  ma- 
jority of  the  people  who  belong  to 
the  Church  have,  I  suppose,  been 
born  under  the  covenant,  and  have 
been  familiar  with  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  from  childhood.  They 
have  become  acquainted  with  it 
through  early  instruction,  beginning 
in  the  Primary,  then  in  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association,  Sunday 
School,  etc.,  and  many  have  gone  on 
missions  into  the  world ;  it  seems 
almost  that  they  were  born  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

I  believe  that  a  man's  condition 
here  is  largely  the  result  of  his  pre- 
existence,  a  subject  which  has  been 
commented  upon  a  little  this  morn- 
ing. A  person's  future  will  depend 
largely  upon  his  life  here.  Today's 
condition  is  largely  the  result  of 
yesterday's  actions,  and  tomorrow 
will  be  largely  affected  by  today.  If 
men  and  women  are  inclined  toward 
the  Lord  today,  they  are  pretty  apt 
to  be  that  way  tomorrow,  and  so  on. 
I  have  learned  that  it  is  very  profit- 
able for  any  man  to  be  a  possessor 
of  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel ;  to 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God  :  such  testimony  is  a  gift  of 
God.  T  have  learned  also  that  re- 
pentance is  a  gift  of  God,  and  that 
men  cannot  truly  repent  unless  the 
Lord  gives  them  the  spirit  of  re- 
pentance. He  gives  all  men  the  gift 
of  repentance  who  draw  near  unto 
Him,  and  desire  to  forsake  evil  and 
choose  the  good.  The  same  gospel 
that  was  given  to  man  in  the  days  of 
Adam,  and  in  the  days  of  all  the 
holy  prophets,  is  here  upon  the  earth 
in  this  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times. 

I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  the 


work  of  the  Lord  is  nearing  an  end 
here,  and  that  His  work  will  not 
continue  many  more  years.  Accord- 
ing to  the  time  of  the  Lord,  we  are 
in  the  last  days,  and  this  gospel  must 
be  preached  diligently.  For  this 
purpose,  more  men  and  women  are 
sent  into  the  world  today  than  at 
any  other  period,  and  still  the  cry  is 
for  more  missionaries.  There  has 
never  been  a  time  in  the  history  of 
our  missions  when  there  was  more 
need  of  numerous  missionaries  than 
at  the  present  time.  Last  summer 
there  were  four  cities  in  the  Central 
States  Mission  under  the  ministra- 
tion of  only  one  elder  and  two  lady 
missionaries,  all  that  we  could  leave 
with  them.  They  traveled  from  one 
city  to  another  every  week,  encour- 
aging the  people  who  were  investi- 
gating the  gospel.  There  are  some 
men  in  this  congregation  who  could 
go  into  the  mission  field,  if  they 
made  up  their  mind  to  do  it,  and  it 
would  be  a  splendid  experience  for 
them,  and  a  blessing  to  those  to 
whom  they  ministered.  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  no  man  ever  acquired  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  anything 
except  by  experience.  He  never 
truly  acquires  a  knowledge  of  the 
advantages  of  money  only  as  he  has 
to  toil  in  earning  it.  Property  that 
comes  to  a  man  through  inheritance 
is  seldom  properly  appreciated  by 
him ;  in  a  majority  of  cases  they  lose 
it  in  a  short  time.  Experience  in 
the  mission  field,  at  home  and 
abroad,  is  the  best  kind  of  training, 
the  thing  that  fastens  the  gospel  in 
the  minds  of  the  missionaries  till 
they  are  able  to  hold  fast  and  walk 
by  the  light  of  it.  Preaching  the 
.'gospel  wherever  permitted  and 
practically  living  it,  is  a  sure  method 
of  attaining  success. 

The  Lord  has  said,  in  the  58th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BEN N ION. 


31 


nants,  that  "men  should  be  anxious- 
ly engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will, 
and  bring  to  pass  much  righteous- 
ness ;  for  the  power  is  in  them, 
wherein  they  are  agents  unto  them- 
selves. And  inasmuch  as  men  do 
good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their 
reward."  And  so,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  power  is  in  you  and  me, 
given  by  our  Eternal  Father,  to 
every  one  of  His  sons  and  daugh- 
ters, that  they  may  be  prepared  to 
work  in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  at  home  and  abroad.  We  can 
plan  for  a  future  experience  in  the 
mission  field,  a  short  or  a  long  one, 
according  to  our  desires.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  has  been  my 
desire  to  impress  upon  this  body  of 
men  and  women  that  missionaries 
are  needed,  men  of  experience.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  I  have  never 
seen  anyone  come  into  the  mission 
field  yet  but  what  there  is  a  place  for 
him.  and  there  have  been  people 
somewhere  who  would  listen  to  him. 
But  we  need  older  men  than  former- 
ly. The  time  has  arrived,  I  firmly 
believe,  when  men  who  have  already 
had  an  experience  in  the  mission 
field  are  most  needed.  Experience 
keeps  men  alive,  fresh  and  able ;  de- 
cay results  if  we  get  into  ruts,  drift 
into  easy  paths,  or  become  inactive. 
I  believe  that  the  Lord  desires  that 
the  Priesthood  in  this  Church 
should,  every  one  of  them,*  be  at 
work,  at  home  or  abroad ;  and  I  be- 
lieve that  all  who  are  able  to  act  as 
missionaries  will  be  called.  Joseph 
Smith  said  that  every  man  who  was 
called  into  the  ministry  in  the  world 
was  ordained  unto  that  calling  be- 
fore the  world  was.  If  that  be  the 
case,  they  undoubtedly  understood 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
pre-existent  state.   My  brethren  and 


sisters,  in  order  to  obtain  the  bless- 
ings that  have  been  pronounced 
upon  the  elders  of  Israel,  those  who 
are  called  will  have  to  use  the  free 
agency  that  God  gave  unto  them 
and  exercise  the  power  of  their 
Priesthood  in  fulfilling  the. require- 
ment that  has  been  made  of  them. 
The  Lord  has  said  that  "many  are 
called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And 
why  are  they  not  chosen?  Because 
their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon 
the  things  of  this  world."  Men  en- 
gage in  business,  and  lose  sight  of 
the  greater  blessings  and  privileges, 
and  the  purpose  for  which  they 
came  into  the  earth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  time  will 
not  permit  me  to  speak  longer.  I 
enjoy  knowing  that  I  am  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  value  my  membership 
in  this  Church  as  the  greatest  pos- 
session that  has  ever  come  to  me.  I 
rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  the 
Lord  lives,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  prophet  of  God,  that  this  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  this 
people  called  Latter-day  Saints  are 
His  people.  I  know  that  those  who 
go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
will  be  accepted  of  Him.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  received  the  reve- 
lations of  the  Lord  which  he  said  he 
did,  and  that  he  received  a  visitation 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  mes- 
sengers from  the  heavenly  world. 

I  humbly  pray  that  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  will  continue  with  us 
each  day  while  we  live  upon  the 
earth,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

A  male  quartet  rendered  a  selec- 
tion. 

The  Choir  sang,  "The  Palms." 

Bishop  Peter  C.  Rasmussen  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle. 
Conference  was    resumed   at  2 
p.  m. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  meeting  to  order. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let 
the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Milton  H.  Welling. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "I 
waited  for  the  Lord." 


PREST.  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 

The  living  word  of  God — The  Easter 
Anniversary — Christ's  literal  resur- 
rection— Evidences  of  the  fact — The 
universal  resurrection — Christ's  par- 
entage— The  Father,  a  Being  of 
Tabernacle — The  Holy  Ghost  a 
"Personage  of  Spirit" — The  Spirit 
of  God  a  boundless  essence — Adam 
as  the  head  of  our  race — We  wor- 
ship only  the  eternal  Father. 

I  should  have  been  well  repaid 
for  coming  to  this  conference  if  I 
had  only  had  the  pleasure,  that  I 
now  enjoy,  of  looking  upon  this  vast 
congregation  composed  chiefly  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  He 
has  established  in  the  last  days  and 
for  the  last  time,  but  I  appreciate 
the  privilege  afforded  me  of  ad- 
dressing my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  earnestly  desire  that  the 
good  spirit  which  was  present  with 
us  during  our  morning  exercises  will 
be  with  us  this  afternoon,  and  that 
I  may  be  inspired  by  the  same  spirit 
which  was  present  with  us  at  the 
opening  session. 

This  morning  I  felt  that  we  were 
receiving  the  word  of  God.  We 
have  some  books  which  we  recog- 
nize as  containing  the  word  of  God  : 
The  Bible,  composed  of  the  Old  and 


New  Testaments,  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  which  we  recognize  as  the 
written  standards  of  doctrine  in  the 
Church.  These  contain  revelations 
given  in  the  past;  some  of  them  in 
the  very  distant  past.  But  it  is 
a  great  consolation  to  me  and  must 
be  to  all  Israel  that  we  have  the  liv- 
ing word  of  God  today,  and  that  that 
which  is  spoken  under  the  influence 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  just  as  much 
the  word  of  God,  just  as  important 
and  just  as  binding  upon  the  people 
of  God,  as  that  which  was  given  in 
former  times.  "Holy  men  of  old 
spake  and  wrote  as  they  were  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,"  so  Peter 
declared,  and  we  can  say  that  holy 
men  in  these  latter  times  have 
spoken  and  do  speak  under  the  in- 
fluence of  the  same  Spirit,  and  it 
is  no  less  the  word  of  God  when  it 
is  spoken  by  that  divine  influence 
than  that  which  was  spoken  under  it 
hundreds  of  years  ago. 

I  do  not  think  there  was  any 
prophet  of  God  in  any  age  of  the 
world  who  brought  forth  more  truth 
and  more  important  truths  than 
were  revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  And  since  his  day, 
as  necessity  has  required,  we  have 
had  the  word  of  God  through  His 
living  successors,  and  I  am  very 
grateful  today  for  the  privilege  and 
blessing  to  live  at  a  time  when  God 
speaks  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  through  His  inspired  ser- 
vants, and  when  He  bears  witness 
to  the  souls  of  those  who  will  re- 
ceive His  word  the  truth  of  that 
which  is  uttered.  From  my  own 
feelings  this  mor'h'ing  I  believe  that 
the  general  sentiment  throughout 
Cne  vast  congregation  assembled  in 
this  tabernacle,  was,  that  we  had  the 
living  word  of  God  and  it  entered 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


S3 


our  souls  and  we  felt  that  we  wanted 
to  do  that  which  the  Lord  requires 
of  us ;  that  we  were  willing  to  re- 
ceive the  instructions  imparted  by 
the  man  who  holds  the  keys  today, 
just  as  much  as  Joseph  the  prophet 
held  them  in  his  time,  and  as  they 
were  held  by  Peter  in  his  time,  or 
by  any  of  the  prophets  of  God  who 
lived  from  the  beginning.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  and  for  the  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  which  is  in  my  heart, 
that  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives 
and  that  through  Him  and  by  Him, 
if  I  will  observe  His  laws  and  keep 
His  commandments  and  be  led  by 
His  Spirit,  T  shall  have  the  privilege 
of  rejoicing  with  Him  in  immortal 
glory  in  the  presence  of  the  Father. 

Today  is  celebrated  throughout 
Christendom  as  the  anniversary  of 
the  day  on  which  Jesus  who  had 
been  put  to  death  on  the  cross,  rose 
from  the  dead  and  appeared  to  His 
disciples,  as  was  related  by  Presi- 
dent Lund  this  morning.  I  hope 
you  all  heard  his  brief  discourse.  If 
you  didn't  hear  every  word  of  it  I 
hope  you  will  read  it  when  it  is 
printed  and  published.  I  take  pleas- 
ure in  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  that  which  He  uttered,  and  which 
was  spoken  by  the  apostles  whom 
Jesus  Himself,  in  person,  sent  out 
into  all  the  world  after  His  appear- 
ance to  them.  I  do  not  know  whether 
this  is  actually  the  proper  anniver- 
sary of  that  day,  that  Sunday 
morning,  "the  first  day  of  the 
week,"  when  Christ  arose  from  the 
dead  and  made  his  personal  appear- 
ance to  Mary  in  the  Garden,  and 
afterwards  to  others  of  His  follow- 
ers, to  demonstrate  to  them  the  fact 
that  He  was  living  though  He  had 
been  dead.  It  is  not  so  much  the 
time,  the  day,  as  the  fact  which  is 
important. 

Is  it  a  fact  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 


who  was  taken  by  wicked  hands  and 
nailed  upon  the  cross,  and  crucified, 
and  was  slain  and  was  buried,  really 
rose  from  the  dead?  To  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  the  matter  seems  so  clear 
and  plain  that  we  wonder  that  any- 
body should  dispute  this,  particu- 
larly among  any  of  the  so-called 
Christian  sects.  It  is  a  marvel  to  us 
that  men  professing  to  be  Christian- 
preachers  will  try  to  make  their  fol- 
lowers believe  that  the  resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ  was  not  a  literal 
fact,  but  that  His  Spirit  merely  rose 
from  the  body  and  the  body  went 
to  dust  like  the  bodies  of  all  people 
as  is  generally  supposed.  Yet  we 
read  in  some  of  their  creeds  that 
Jesus  "suffered  under  Pontius 
Pilate,  was  crucified,  died,  buried 
and  on  the  third  day  after, 
He  rose  from  the  dead."  But  if 
the  notions  that  are  now  being 
taught  to  the  people  concerning 
Him  are  true,  then  He  was  raised 
on  the  day  that  He  was  crucified, 
not  on  the  third  day ;  that  His  spirit 
left  His  body  after  it  had  hung  for 
some  hours  upon  the  cross,  for  there 
He  said:  "Father,  into  Thy  hands 
I  commend  my  spirit."  So  we  read 
in  the  New  Testament,  "And  He 
bowed  His  head  and  gave  up  the 
ghost."  So  that  the  Spirit  of  Jesus, 
the  Christ,  ascended  from  the  body 
while  His  body  hung  upon  the  cross, 
and  they  took  down  the  defunct 
body  and  buried  it  in  the  tomb  pre- 
pared by  Joseph  or'  Arimathea.  It 
was  on  the  third  day  after  that 
that  He  rose  from  the  dead,  accord- 
ing to  the  account  which  we  have  in 
the  New  Testament  and  which  is 
generally  received  in  word  by  the 
various  sects  of  Christendom. 

Now  is  it  a  fact,  is  there  evidence 
and  proof  that  the  man  Jesus,  who 
was  crucified  on  the  cross,  actually 
rose  from  the  dead  and  that  in  His 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


body  He  appeared  to  His  disciples? 
We  believe  that  with  all  our  hearts. 
We  have  had  additional  testimony 
and  evidence  to  that  which  we  read 
about  in  the  New  Testament,  but  I 
will  read  to  you  a  few  verses  from 
the  testimony  of  Paul  on  the  sub- 
ject, which  I  think  are  important  in 
the  way  of  evidence  of  the  actual 
fact  of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ.    It  is  in  that  remarkable  dis- 
course  contained   in  the  fifteenth 
chapter  of  the  First  Epistle  of  Paul 
to  the  Corinthians.    That  is.  that 
which  is  called  the  First  Epistle,  for 
I  find  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  that 
epistle  he  speaks  of  the  former 
epistle  that  he  wrote,  on  a  certain 
very  important  subject,  so  that  what 
is  called  "The  First  Epistle  to  the 
Corinthians"  is  merely  the  first  that 
we  have.    I  will  commence  at  the 
first  verse.    I  recommend  the  read- 
ing of  this  whole  chapter  to  every- 
body interested  in  this  very  import- 
ant subject.    A  great  manv  verses 
from  it  are  read  usually  at  funerals, 
particularly     by     the  Episcopal 
Church,  and  by  some  of  the  other 
churches.   There  are  so  manv  beau- 
tiful utterances  in  this  chapter  that 
they  ought  to  be  familiar  to  all  peo- 
ple who  profess  to  be  Christians. 
Paul  commences  this  chapter  in'  this 
way : 

"Moreover,  brethren.  T  declare  unto 
you  the  gospel  which  I  preached  unto 
you,  which  also  ve  have  received,  and 
wherein  ve  stand; 

"P>v  which  also  ve  are  saved,  if  ye 
keep  in  memory  what  I  preached  unto 
you.  unless  ve  have  believed  in  vain. 

"For  T  delivered  unto  vou  first  of 
all  that  which  T  also  received,  how 
that  Christ  died  for  our  sins  according 
to  the  scriptures:  and  that  he  was 
buried,  and  that  he  rose  again  the 
third  day  according  to  the  scriptures; 
and  that  he  was  seen  of  Cephas,"  [that 
is  another  name  for  Peterl.  "then  of 
the  twelve: 


"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above 
five  hundred  brethren  at  once;  of 
whom  the  greater  part  remain  unto 
this  present,  but  some  are  fallen 
asleep. 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James; 
then  of  all  the  apostles. 

"And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me 
also,  as  of  one  born  out  of  due  time. 

"For  I  am  the  least  of  the  apostles, 
that  am  not  meet  to  be  called  an 
apostle,  because  I  persecuted  the 
Church  of  God." 

Then  we  have  the  Avritten  testi- 
mony of  the  men  who  are  called  the 
evangelists,    the    four  evangelists, 
Matthew,  Mark.  Luke  and  John. 
Luke  was  a  very  fine  writer.  Tt 
is  supposed  that  he  wrote  the  Acts 
of  the  apostles.    T  believe  that  is 
generally  conceded.    P>ut  we  have 
in  each  of  these  writings  called  the 
Gospel  of  Matthew,  and  the  Gospel 
of  Mark,  and  of  Luke  and  of  John, 
distinct  evidence  given  bv  persons 
who  saw  the  Savior  after  His  res- 
urrection,   and    particularly  that 
which  is  given  by  Luke,  which  T 
recommend  you  to  read.    Read  the 
last  chanter  of  "the  Gospel  accord- 
ing to  Saint  Luke"  for  in  that  we 
are  told  very  definitely,  that  Jesus 
appeared  to  His  apostles  when  thev 
were  gathered  in  an  upner  room  for 
fear  of  the  Tews,  and  "thev  were 
terrified   and   affrighted   and  sup- 
nosed  thev  had  seen  a  spirit."  Rut 
Tesus  said  unto  them :    "Why  are 
ve  troubled  and  why  do  thoughts 
arise  in  your  hearts?"    Pehold  My 
hands  and  Mv  feet,  that  it  is  T.  My- 
self, handle  Me  and  see.  for  a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  ve  see 
Me  have."   And  while  thev  believed 
not  vet  for  joy.  and  wondered,  He 
said  to  them.    Have  ve  here  any 
meat?  and  thev  gave  Him  a. piece 
of  a  broiled  fish,  and  of  an  honev- 
ro«A     \nd  He  took  it.  and  did 
eat  before  them." 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


35 


Why  did  He  do  that,  do  you  sup- 
pose ?  W as  it  not  to  prove  to  them 
the  fact  that  He  was  there  in  His 
body,  the  same  body  although 
changed  in  many  particulars  that 
hung  on  the  cross,  for  there  were 
the  marks  of  the  nails  that  were 
driven  through  His  hands,  and 
the  mark  of  the  Roman  spear  in  His 
side,  which  He  afterwards  showed 
to  Thomas  and  to  others.  What 
was  the  object  that  He  had  in  view? 
Why  to  show  them  that  He  was  not 
a  mere  spirit  separated  from  the 
body,  but  that  He  was  there  in  the 
body  and  that  He  was  raised  from 
the  dead.  Not  only  did  these  four 
men  that  I  speak  of  give  this  testi- 
mony, but  we  have  the  writings  of 
Peter,  and  of  James,  and  here  of 
Paul.  And  Paul  wrote  of  some- 
thing which  was  well  understood, 
evidently,  among  the  disciples,  the 
members  of  the  Church  then,  that 
five  hundred  of  the  brethren  at  once 
saw  Him,  and  knew  that  He  lived 
and  that  He  was  in  the  body,  that 
He  was  a  tangible  being  with  flesh 
and  bones — not  merely  "flesh  and 
bone"  as  so  many  of  our  brethren 
quote  it — but  flesh  and  bones,  the 
same  appearance  of  flesh  and  of 
bones  that  He  had  while  He  was  in 
mortality.  Paul  explains  in  this  same 
chapter,  that  when  the  body  is 
placed  in  the  grave  it  is  placed  there 
somewhat  like  we  sow  grain,  He 
says,  "it  may  chance  of  wheat  or 
some  other  grain ;  but  that  which 
thou  sowest  is  not  quickened  except 
it  die."  He  showed  that  Jesus' 
body  was  placed  in  the  grave  and 
that  He  came  forth  again.  As  to  the 
deceased  body  he  says :  "It  is  sown 
in  corruption;  it  is  raised  in  incor- 
ruption.  It  is  sown  in  weakness,  it 
is  raised  in  power.  It  is  sown  a 
natural  body,  it  is  raised  a  spiritual 
body."      Further,  he  declares  the 


fact  that  "Now  is  Christ  risen  from 
the  dead  and  become  the  first-fruits 
of  them  that  slept.  For  since  by 
man  came  death,  by  man  came  also 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead." 
The  great  song  of  that  time  was,  as 
we  heard  this  morning  "Christ  is 
Risen!"  Hallelujah!  Praise  to  God 
for  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ, 
for  it  was  the  Father  that  raised 
up  Christ  from  the  dead!  And  in 
writing  to  the  Romans,  Paul  de- 
clares :  "If  the  Spirit  of  Him  that 
raised  up  Jesus  from  the  dead  dwell 
in  you,  He  that  raised  up  Christ 
from  the  dead  shall  also  quicken 
your  mortal  bodies  by  His  Spirit 
that  dwelleth  in  you."  (Rom.  8:11). 
Paul  also,  in  writing  to  the  Phil- 
ippians,  declares  that,  "We  look  for 
the  Savior  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ" 
to  come  from  heaven,  "who  shall 
change  our  vile  body  that  it  may  be 
fashioned  like  unto  His  glorious 
body."  (Phil.  3:21).  Now  then 
as  to  the  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  fact  seems  to  be  just  as 
well  authenticated  as  the  fact  of  His 
death  and  of  His  burial.  Not  only 
do  we  have  these  testimonies  in  the 
New  Testament,  but  we  have  the 
testimony  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
which  the  Prophet  Joseph  translated 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  giv- 
ing a  great  deal  of  the  history  of  the 
dealings  of  God  with  the  ancient 
people  on  this  continent;  and- there 
we  read  of  the  appearance  of  Jesus, 
the  Christ,  to  the  Nephites,  and  He 
showed  them  His  hands  and  His 
feet  and  invited  them  to  test  and 
prove  that  He  was  there  in  the  body, 
not  merely  a  spirit  extricated  from 
the  body,  a  disembodied  spirit,  but 
the  man  Jesus,  the  Lord  Christ 
raised  from  the  dead,  appearing  in 
His  resurrected  body. 

Again,  we  have  the  testimony  in 
our  own  day  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


when  a  boy,  in  that  first  glorious 
manifestation  of  God  to  man  in  the 
19th  century.  Joseph  prayed  to  God 
in  regard  to  the  various  religions 
existing  in  the  world;  he  prayed 
that  he  might  have  knowledge  and 
light  concerning  which  was  the  true 
religion ;  and  we  have  that  beau- 
tiful, simple,  striking  and  touching 
account  which  you  have  all  read, 
no  doubt,  when  the  Father  and  the 
Son  both  appeared  to  him  and  the 
Father,  pointing  to  the  Son,  said: 
'This  is  my  beloved  son,  hear  him." 
It  was  Jesus  the  Christ  raised  from 
the  dead  that  appeared  to  the 
prophet  and  that  spake  to  him  and 
taught  him  in  regard  to  the  fallacy 
of  the  teachings  of  men  and  their 
departure  from  the  faith,  and  prom- 
ised that  the  truth  should  be  re- 
stored in  its  fullness.  I  need  not 
dwell  further  on  that  particular 
case. 

But,  again,  we  read  in  the  76th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants that  on  a  certain  day  men- 
tioned there,  Joseph  Smith  and  Sid- 
ney Rigdon,  being  engaged  in  the 
work  of  revision  or  translation  of 
the  scriptures,  came  to  a  passage  in 
the  writings  of  John,  and  it  was 
given  to  them  in  a  way.  a  little  dif- 
ferent to  what  it  is  in  the  New 
Testament.  Jesus,  who  declared 
Himself,  when  among  His  disciples, 
when  in  mortality,  as  "the  resur- 
rection and  the  life,"  saying  that  He 
had  life  in  Himself,  as  the  Father 
had  life  in  Himself,  and  that  He 
had  power  to  lay  clown  His  life  and 
to  take  it  up  again.  He  added: 

"Marvel  not  at  this,  for  the  hour 
is  coming  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  hear  the  voice 
of  the  Son  of  God  and  shall  come 
forth — they  that  have  done  good, 
in  the  resurrection  of  life,  and  they 
that  have  done  evil  in  the  resurrec- 


tion of  damnation.    (Jno.  5  :28,  29). 

It  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  Sidney  Rigdon  in  this  wise: 
"They  that  have  done  good,  in  the 
resurrection  of  the  just  ;  and  they 
that  have  done  evil,  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  unjust," — quite  similar 
in  meaning  only  a  little  different  in 
the  wording.  But  they  marveled  at 
this,  and  they  prayed,  and  they  de- 
clare that  the  eyes  of  their  under- 
standing were  opened,  and  thev  saw 
the  Lord  seated  upon  His  throne 
and  Jesus  the  Christ  on  His  right 
hand  ;  they  saw  Him  in  the  heavenly 
vision  and  conversed  with  Him  and 
they  said : 

"Now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
that  have  been  given  of  Him  this  is 
our  testimony  last  of  all,  that  we 
give  of  Him.  that  He  lives,  for  we 
saw  Him  on  the  right  hand  of  God, 
and  we  heard  the  voice  bearing 
record  that  he  is  the  only  begotten 
Son  of  God;  that  by  Him,  and 
through  Him  and  of  Him  the  worlds 
are  and  were  created,  and  the  inhab- 
itants thereof  are  begotten  sons  and 
daughters  unto  God."  There  is  a 
great  truth  in  that,  which  you  might 
think  about  when  you  have  a  little 
leisure  time,  and  see  how  wide  and 
extensive  a  field  it  opens  to  view, 
and  how  it  carries  you  into  the  deal- 
ings of  God  and  His  relationship  to 
the  beings  who  inhabit  the  various 
worlds  that  He  has  created ;  and 
therein  we  have  a  definite  revelation 
that  the  worlds  are  inhabited,  which 
has  been  a  matter  in  great  dispute 
for  many  years  and  is  so  still. 

These  are  some  of  the  evidences 
and  testimonies  concerning  the 
Savior — that  He  rose  from  the  dead, 
that  He  was  resurrected,  and  that 
the  resurrection  was  the  raising  of 
the  body  that  was  crucified  on  the 
cross,  quickened  by  the  power  of 
God,  by  the  vital  spirit  which  quick- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


37 


eneth  all  things  that  are  quickened. 
The  Apostle  Paul  goes  on  to  reason 
that  if  Christ  was  not  risen,  then 
we  will  not  rise  from  the  dead ;  but 
that  if  He  has  been  raised  from  the 
dead  then  we  also  shall  be  raised ; 
and  he  goes  on  to  show  how  uni- 
versal that  resurrection  shall  be — ■ 
some  to  come  forth  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  just,  and  some  in  the 
resurrection  of  the  unjust,  and  that 
there  are  to  be  different  grades  of 
glory  among  those  that  are  resur- 
rected. If  you  want  to  learn  a  little 
more  about  that,  in  greater  plain- 
ness, read  the  88th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  you 
will  find  there  something  that  may 
be  called  philosophical  as  well  as 
theological.  Those  that  obey  celes- 
tial laws  will  so  improve  and  purify 
and  sanctify  their  bodies  that  those 
bodies  will  be  fit  to  come  forth  in 
''the  first  resurrection"  to  celestial 
glory,  and  that  they  will  then  be 
"bodies  celestial  ;"  while  those  who 
would  not  receive  the  laws  of  God 
which  are  celestial,  that  is,  receiving 
every  word  that  comes  from  the 
mouth  of  God,  but  will  obey  a  ter- 
restial  law,  will  be  quickened  by  a 
portion  of  the  terrestial  glorv  and 
receive  of  the  same  in  a  fulness ; 
and,  as  we  learn  also  in  The  Vision, 
they  will  not  be  bodies  celestial  but 
"bodies  terrestial,"  a  different  class, 
but  raised  from  the  dead  and  quick- 
ened by  the  power  of  that  vital  spirit 
which  quickeneth  all  things.  And 
they  who  do  not  receive  the  terres- 
tial laws  but  only  the  telestial,  will 
come  forth  in  the  resurrection, 
raised  with  a  telestial  body  and  be 
Quickened  by  the  telestial  glory.  In 
the  revelation  that  I  referred  to,  in 
the  88th  section,  we  learn  that  they 
will  improve,  as  all  things  will  have 
to,  for  progress  is  the  law  of  the 
universe,  and  all  beings,  all  intelli- 


gences will  have  an  opportunity  of 
progressing  along  certain  lines. 
Those  who  are  of  a  celestial  body 
shall  come  forth  and  have  a  body 
like  unto  the  glorious  body  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  will  dwell  in  His 
presence  and  be  with  Him  in  glory 
in  the  presence  of  the  Father,  while 
those  who  only  obey  the  terrestial  or 
the  telestial  laws,  after  they  are  re- 
deemed will  come  forth  in  the  way 
that  is  described,  "but  where  God 
and  Christ  dwell" — so  it  is  said  of 
the  telestial — "they  never  can  come 
worlds  without  end."  That  may 
answer  some  queries  that  are  made 
in  some  of  our  theological  classes. 
Now  this  all  depends  upon  the  res- 
urrection of  Jesus  the  Christ.  I  say 
Jesus  the  Christ  because  that  is  what 
He  was.  Some  few  of  our  brethren 
get  a  notion  in  their  heads  that  the 
Christ  is  not  a  person  but  a  power ; 
but  Jesus  is  called  the  Christ,  over 
and  over  again  both  in  former  and 
in  latter  day  revelation ;  also  He  was 
the  Logos,  the  Word  of  God.  Not 
merely  a  word  spoken  but  He  is 
called  the  Word  because  the  word 
of  God  came  through  Him  and  was 
embodied  in  Him.  In  the  93rd  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
you  will  read  His  own  words  about 
it,  that  He  was  the  Word  just  as 
John  declared;  that  He  came  forth 
from  God,  that  He  was  in  the  be- 
ginning with  God  and  was  the  first- 
born. 

Here  is  another  point  in  the  his- 
tory of  that  great  and  extraordinary 
Being.  I  say  extraordinary,  for  He 
is  different  in  many  respects  from 
all  the  sons  of  men :  In  the  first 
place  He  is  called  the  first-born  in 
the  spirit  world ;  He  is  called  the 
first-born  here  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  and  in  Colossians,  and  in 
the  opening  chapter  of  John's  dis- 
course or  "Gospel"  He  is  called  the 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


only  begotten  son  of  God,  "for  God 
so  loved  the  world  that  He  gave  His 
only   begotten    Son   that  through 
Him  man  might  not  perish  but  have 
everlasting  life."   Now  here  are  two 
statements  about  Him,  that  He  was 
the  first-born ;  He  makes  that  state- 
ment to  us  in  the  revelation  concern- 
ing Himself;  "I  also  was  in  the  be- 
ginning with  the  Father,  and  am  the 
first-born."     Some  people  have  a 
notion  that  the  first-born  was  that 
being  who  afterward  was  called 
Satan,  Lucifer,  who  rebelled.  That 
is  a  mistake ;  Christ  Himself  puts 
that  at  rest  by  stating  distinctly :  "I 
also  was  in  the  beginning  with  the 
Father  and  am  the  first-born.  Man 
also  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 
That  which  is  spirit,"  that  portion 
of  man  that  is  spirit  "was  in  the  be- 
ginning with  God ;"  but  Jesus,  as 
He  was  called  on  earth,  was  the 
first-born  and  He  dwelt  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father.    What  was  He 
— the  Father?    No;  He  could  not 
be  His  own  father  nor  His  own  son, 
and    Jesus    was  the  Son  of  The 
Father,  the  Son  of  the  Highest, 
and  He  was  the  first-born,  and  we 
were  born  afterwards  in  the  spirit ; 
so  that  Christ  was  the  first-born  in 
the  spirit.    How  was  He  brought 
forth — as  an  individual,  conscious, 
thinking,    intelligent    spirit  with 
agency?   Why,  He  was  begotten  of 
the  Father,  and  therefore  the  at- 
tributes of  the  Father  came  to  Him 
by  generation,  and  so  to  us,  meas- 
urably, every  one  of  us  :  but  on  the 
earth  He  was  "the  only  begotten 
Son  of  God,"  born  of  the  Virgin 
Mary.    Let  me  read  a  verse  from 
the  description  given  to  us  by  Luke 
on  this  matter.    It  is  well  enough 
to  read  all  that  was  said  concerning 
Jesus  the  Christ,  because  He  was 
the  greatest  of  all  beings  who  ever 
dwelt  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  In 


the  first  chapter  of  the  Gospel  ac- 
cording to  St.  Luke  we  are  told  of  a 
prophecy  made  through  the  father 
of  John  the  Baptist  concerning  Him 
and  we  also  read  there  that  He 
should  be  called  "the  Son  of  the 
Highest,"  and  that  John  should  be  a 
prophet  to  go  before  Him  and  pre- 
pare the  way.  Now  here  in  this 
chapter  we  have  an  account  of  the 
appearance  of  an  angel  to  Mary  who 
was  one  of  the  ministering  spirits 
and  ladies  in  the  temple.  The  angel 
appeared  to  her  and  hailed  her  in 
this  way : 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  her,  Fear 
not,  Mary:  for  thou  hast  found  favor 
with  God. 

"And,  behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  in 
thy  womb  and  bring  forth  a  son  and 
shalt  call  his  name  Jesus."  [The  mean- 
ing of  the  word  Jesus  being  Savior.} 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be 
called  the  Son  of  the  Highest:  and  the 
Lord  God  shall  give  unto  him  the 
throne  of  His  father,  David: 

"And  He  shall  reign  over  the  house 
of  Jacob  forever;  and  of  His  kingdom 
there  shall  be  no  end. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  her:  The 
Holj'  Ghost  shall  come  upon  thee,  and 
the  power  of  the  Highest  shall  over- 
shadow thee;  therefore  also  that  holy 
thing  which  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall 
be  called  the  Son  of  God." 

Do  you  need  any  plainer  explana- 
tion of  this  matter?  This  is  con- 
sidered to  be  one  of  the  great  mys- 
teries, in  the  religious  world.  If  you 
understood  it  just  exactly  as  it  is,  it 
would  not  be  so  great  a  mystery. 
Believe  what  is  written  there  by 
Luke,  for  that  is  the  truth.  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  was  the  Son  of  Mary 
and  Lie  was  the  Son  of  God,  con- 
ceived by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  as  all  things  are,  but  not  be- 
gotten. Some  of  our  good  friends 
who  desire  to  dispute  with  us,  say 
that  the  "Mormons"  don't  believe  in 
true  doctrine,  for  they  do  not  believe 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


39 


that  Jesus  was  begotten  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Well,  the  scripture  does  not 
say  that  He  was  ;  it  does  not  say  any 
where  that  He  was  "begotten  of  the 
Holy  Ghost."  The  Holy  Ghost 
rested  upon  Mary,  but  the  power  of 
the  Most  High  overshadowed  her, 
and  that  which  was  born  of  her  was 
the  Son  of  God.  He  was  the  only  be- 
gotten Son  of  God — not  of  the  Holy 
Ghost — as  well  as  the  Son  of  Mary. 
He  "was  the  first-born  in  the  spirit, 
and  as  a  Son  of  God  the  only  begot- 
ten in  the  flesh.  Therefore,  as  I 
said.  He  is  an  exceptional  Being. 

If  you  want  to  read  more  about 
Him  in  this  respect,  take  the  first 
and  second  chapters  of  the  Epistle 
to  the  Hebrews,  and  the  first  chap- 
ter of  Colossians,  that  I  haven't  time 
to  read  here  this  afternoon,  for  I 
don't  want  to  take  up  too  much 
time ;  but  it  is  very  interesting  to 
read  there  how  that  He  was  the 
greatest,  that  He  was  the  first,  and 
so  that  He  might  "bring  many  sons 
unto  glory,"  He  was  made  in  all 
points  like  they  are,  only  He  was 
without  sin.  He  had  a  body  fash- 
ioned like  theirs ;  it  was  born  of  the 
virgin  ;  it  was  a  material  body.  He 
suffered  all  the  pains  and  pangs  of 
men  and  women  and  children ;  He 
suffered  that  He  might  bear  their 
sins  and  that  He  finally  might  die, 
laving  down  His  life  voluntarily — 
because  He  had  life  in  Himself,  and 
was  raised  up  by  the  glorv  of  the 
Father,  so  that  He  had  His  body 
restored  to  Him,  and  in  that  He 
became  in  all  respects  exactly  like 
the  Father. 

You  take  the  130th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  vou 
will  read  there  that  God  the  Father 
is  a  being  of  tabernacle,  that  He  is 
a  snirit  but  that  He  has  a  body  of 
flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's  ; 
and  the  Son  also ;  but  the  Holy 


Ghost  is  a  pers'onage  of  spirit,  not 
of  tabernacle.    I  want  to  touch  just 
a  little  on  that  point  and  clear  up 
some  ideas  that  our  brethren  have 
in  regard  to  it,  which   lead  them 
sometimes  into   disputes;   they  do 
not  seem  to  understand   that  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  personage  spoken 
of  there,  is  "a  personage  of  spirit," 
and,  yet,  that  the  Holy  Spirit  or 
Holy  Ghost — for  the  words  are  used 
interchangeably,   if   not  synonym- 
ously— can  be  "poured  out"  and  can 
be  given  to  a  number  of  people  at 
the  same  time  at  different  places  and 
can  permeate  all  things.  Now,  when 
Jesus  was  talking  with  His  disciples, 
before  His  death  and  resurrection — 
as  you  read  in  the  14th  and  16th 
chapters  of  the  Gospel  according  to 
St.  John ;  (I  will  not  turn  to  it;  you 
turn  to  it  and  read  it).    It  is  good 
to  read  the  Bible  sometimes,  breth- 
ren, even  if  it  is  "an  old  book;"  if  it 
is  old  it  is  not  antiquated  in  that 
sense.    It  is  true  today  as  it  was 
when  it  was  written.    We  can  un- 
derstand it  if  we  get  the  same  spirit 
in  us  by  which  it  was  written.  There 
Jesus  says  to  them :  "It  is  expedient 
that  I  go  away,  for  if  I  go  not  away 
the  Comforter  will  not  come ;  but  if 
I  go  away  I  will  send  Him  unto  you 
from  the  Father.    When  the  spirit 
of  truth  is  come,  He  shall  guide  you 
into  all  truth,"  and  so  on.    Here  is 
an  individual,  a  personage,  evident- 
ly, that  He  was  speaking  about,  "a 
personage  of  spirit"  as  told  in  the 
revelation  that  I  quoted  from;  but 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  sometimes 
called  the  Holy  Spirit,  sometimes 
called  the  Holy  Ghost— because  the 
words  are  used,  as  I  have  said,  in- 
terchangeably— is  an  essence  that 
permeates  all  things. 

Take  the  section  <;hat  I  have- 
quoted  to  you.  the  88th  section  of 
the    Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and! 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


you  will  read  that  there  is  a  spirit 
which  is  called  "the  light  of  Christ." 
That  is  not  Christ  Himself  in  per- 
son, but  it  is  the  light  of  Christ; 
"as  also  He  is  in  the  sun  and  is  the 
light  of  the  sun  and  the  power  by 
which  it  was  made  ;  and  in  the  moon 
also,  and  the  light  of  the  moon ;  and 
in  the  stars,  and  the  light  of  the 
stars  ;  and  in  the  earth  also  on  which 
ye  stand ;  and  the  light  which  now 
enlighteneth  your  eyes  is  through 
Him  that  enlighteneth  your  under- 
standing, and  is  the  same  spirit 
which  enlighteneth  the  mind  and  the 
soul  and  spirit  of  man ;  the  light 
which  is  in  all  things,  which  is 
through  all  things,  which  is  round 
about  all  things  and  which  is  the  law 
by  which  all  things  are  governed." 
In  other  revelations  of  God  to  us, 
particularly  in  the  29th  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  you 
will  read  there  that  God  says,  "I 
created  all  things  by  the  power  of 
my  Spirit,  firstly,  spiritual,  and  aft- 
erwards temporal."  All  things  that 
have  life  in  the  world,  in  the  great 
universe  of  God,  throughout  bound- 
less space,  all  things  that  have  life 
are  quickened  by  that  spirit,  and 
that  is  under  the  direction  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  per- 
sonage called  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
it  proceeds  from  the  presence  of 
God  throughout  the  immensity  of 
space.  So  we  are  told  by  the  Lord 
Himself.  There  are  three  that  bear 
record  in  heaven,  John  declares  in 
the  first  epistle  that  he  wrote  after 
he  wrote  his  "gospel,"  as  it  is  called, 
"There  are  three  that  bear  record  in 
"heaven — the  Father  and  the  Word 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  these  three 
are  one ;  and  there  are  three  that 
bear  witness  on  the  earth,  the  spirit 
and  the  wa*er  and  the  blood,  and 
these  three  agree  in  one"  (I 
John)  ;  and  as  these  three  are  differ- 


ent and  separate  and  distinct,  so  are 
the  other  three — the  Father  and  the 
Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost — three  in- 
dividuals, not  one  person,  not  one 
substance,  but  different  individuals. 
They  three  are  the  great,  matchless, 
powerful,  mighty  rulers  and  gov- 
ernors of  the  universe,  and  all  things 
are  under  their  direction,  and  they 
three  are  one,  just  as  Christ  prayed 
that  His  disciples  might  all  be  one. 

There  need  not  be  any  confusion 
in  our  minds  regarding  these  im- 
portant things.  It  is  important  that 
we  should  know  something  about 
the  Being  whom  we  worship — the 
Father,  for  it  is  the  Father  whom 
we  worship.  We  do  not  pray  to 
the  Son  nor  to  the  Holy  Ghost ;  we 
pray  to  the  Father,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son,  under  the  in- 
fluence and  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  When  we  do  that  we  are 
in  accord  with  the  Lord,  and  we  are 
doing  that  which  we  are  commanded 
to  do.  If  we  want  to  come  unto  the 
Father,  we  have  to  come  unto  Him 
by  the  Son.  "No  man  cometh  to 
the  Father  but  by  Me."  Jesus  said. 
He  is  the  Mediator.  He  was  so  ap- 
pointed ;  He  is  the  greatest :  He  is 
the  mightiest  of  all  the  sons  of  God. 
He  was  the  first-born.  How  many 
ages,  millions  of  ages  ago  it  was, 
when  He  was  the  first-born  we  do 
not  know,  but  that  He  had  a  mighty 
and  long  experience  is  evident  by 
what  He  declared,  that  "the  Father 
loveth  the  Son  and  showeth  Him  all 
things  that  He.  Himself,  doeth." 
That  is  why  He  was  "in  the  begin- 
ning," in  the  creation.  The  Father 
told  Him  to  go  down  and  do  certain 
things.  He  knew  how  to  do  them 
because  He  had  seen  the  Father  do 
them.  He  is  the  great  eternal 
Christ,  the  Word  of  the  living  God, 
the  Son  of  the  Father,  the  first-born 
of  all  the  children  of  God  that  after- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


41 


wards  tabernacled  here  on  the  earth. 
He  was  not  Adam ;  Adam  was  not 
He ;  He  gave  commandments  to 
Adam  in  the  Garden.  Adam  wor- 
shiped the  Father,  and  we  worship 
the  Father ;  we  do  not  worship 
Adam.  Adam  is  the  head  of  the 
race,  so  far  as  the  temporal  body  is 
concerned.  He  is  placed  at  the  head, 
as  you  will  read  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  section  107.  When 
Adam  gathered  with  his  posterity, 
before  his  departure,  in  the  valley 
of  Adam-ondi-Ahman,  and  there 
bestowed  upon  them  his  last  bless- 
ing: "the  Lord  appeared  unto  them 
and  they  rose  up  and  blessed  Adam, 
and  called  him  Michael,  the  Prince, 
the  Archangel."  That  is  who  Adam 
was  before  he  came  to  the  earth  in 
his  temporal  and  mortal  body: 

"And  the  Lord  administered  comfort 
unto  Adam,  and  said  unto  him,  I  have 
set  thee  to  be  at  the  head — a  multitude 
of  nations  shall  come  of  thee  and  thou 
art  a  prince  over  them  forever." 

But  we  are  not  to  worship  Adam  ; 
we  worship  the  same  being  whom 
Adam  worshiped.  Adam  worshiped 
the  Father  in  the  name  of  the  Son, 
as  you  will  see  if  you  will  take  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price  and  read  the 
writings  of  Moses  about  him  and 
about  Enoch.  Now,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  we  adore  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth ;  we  adore  Him  as  the  Mes- 
siah ;  we  adore  Him  as  the  Christ ; 
we  adore  Him  as  the  only  begotten 
Son  of  God  in  the  flesh,  literally, 
actually.  We  can  understand  that. 
We  adore  Him  as  the  first-born  of 
all  the  creation  of  God — that  per- 
tains to  this  earth  at  any  rate.  But 
He  is  the  revelation  of  the  Father. 
Sometimes  He  is  called  both  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  It  does  not 
mean  that  He  is  actually  His  own 
father  or  His  own  son.    He  repre- 


sents the  Father;  "in  Him  dwelleth 
the  fulness  of  the  Godhead,  bodily ;" 
He  looks  just  exactly  like  the 
Father,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  saw, 
in  the  vision.  He  is  the  express 
image  of  the  Father.  God  is  man- 
ifest in  the  flesh  in  Jesus  of  Nazar- 
eth, and  we  adore  Him  and  venerate 
Him,  and  He  is  our  Savior ;  but  we 
worship  and  pray  to  and  obey  the 
great  Eternal  Father  of  the  spirits 
of  all  men.  He  is  our  Father  and 
is  our  God  and  is  Christ's  Father 
and  Christ's  God  just  as  well. 

Jesus  Christ  died  for  us.  Death 
came  into  the  world  through  the 
transgression  of  man.  We  have  the 
revelation  of  God  for  that.  We  need 
not  speculate  on  what  there  was  be- 
fore Adam  was  on  the  earth  ;  it  does 
not  matter.  Death  came  through 
the  fall  of  Adam  and  it  is  called 
"the  fall,"  in  the  revelations  of  God. 
Life  came  through  Jesus  Christ.  "As 
in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall 
all  be  made  alive."  Christ  is  risen! 
Hallelujah !  Glory  to  God  in  the 
Highest !  The  Redeemer,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  was  raised  from  the 
dead,  and  in  Him  there  is  life.  In 
the  beginning  He  was  with  God  and 
He  had  life  in  Him,  and  that  life  is 
the  light  of  man  and  the  light  of  the 
world,  and  it  is  His  light  that  shines 
from  the  sun,  and  from  the  moon, 
and  from  the  stars,  and  is  in  all 
things  and,  under  the  word  of  God, 
the  direction  of  the  Holy  One,  with- 
out even  touching  a  button  the  light 
will  shine  forth,  and  those  who  obey 
the  laws  given  to  obtain  them,  can 
receive  the  blessings  and  be  enlight- 
ened by  the  power  of  that  Holy 
Spirit  as  directed  either  by  the 
Father  or  the  Son,  or  by  that  per- 
sonage that  is  called  the  Holy  Ghost, 
who  came  in  power  on  the  Day  of 
Pentecost,  and  came  in  power  on  the 
day  when  the  Kirtland  Temple  was 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dedicated.  His  power  and  His 
presence  were  there  made  manifest 
in  the  same  way  as  on  the  Day  of 
Pentecost.  And  He  is  in  this 
Church,  and  is  under  the  direction 
of  Christ.  The  Comforter  is  here ; 
our  hearts  are  comforted  by  the 
power  of  His  presence  in  the  midst 
of  His  people.  The  Father  and  the 
Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost  are  the 
Deity ;  they  are  one,  and  we  are  un- 
der their  direction  and  they  have  re- 
stored the  gospel,  as  we  heard  this 
morning.  Praise  be  unto  them,  for 
this  grand  gift.  Let  us  rejoice  that 
we  live  in  a  day  when  the  Gospel  in 
its  fulness  and  purity  is  restored, 
and  we  are  participants  in  its  bless- 
ings ! 

Every  one  of  us  can  receive  some 
special  gift  from  the  Divine  Spirit : 
for  there  are  many  gifts  of  the 
Spirit,  but  it  is  the  same  Spirit,  only 
one  Spirit  permeating  all  things ; 
and  the  Spirit  that  gives  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  or  the  gift  of  healing,  or 
the  gift  of  tongues,  or  the  gift  of 
interpretation,  or  the  gift  of  visions, 
and  so  on,  is  one  Spirit,  but  these 
are  different  manifestations  of  that 
Spirit.  The  highest  manifestations 
are  with  the  Father  and  the  Son  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  for  they  have  the 
very  fulness  thereof  and  can  impart 
it.  In  its  lower  manifestations  it  is 
here  in  natural  things,  in  light,  in 
heat,  in  electricity,  in  the  various 
manifestations  of  that  divine  power 
which  permeates  all  things  and  by 
which  God  created  and  governs  all 
things.  We  can  receive  blessings 
from  on  high  and  blessings  from  be- 
neath. Thanks  be  to  the  Lord  for 
the  revelations  of  the  Gospel ! 
Thanks  be  to  God  for  the  gift  of 
His  only  begotten  Son  who  died 
that  we  might  live !  And  if  we  will 
keep  His  commandments  and  walk 
in  His  light  and  do  those  things  that 


He  commands,  He  will  bring  us 
forth  from  the  tomb  and  we  will 
come  forth  with  those  that  are  His 
at  His  coming.  He  was  the  first- 
fruit  ;  afterwards  shall  be  those  who 
are  Christ's  at  His  coming.  He 
knows  them  and  He  will  call  them 
forth;  and  then,  as  Job  said,  "Thou 
shalt  call  and  I  will  answer ;  for 
Thou  shalt  have  a  desire  to  the  work 
of  Thine  hands."  Glory  be  to  God 
for  the  gift  of  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
who  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life ! 
He  will  appear  to  us  in  "the  sweet 
bye  and  bye,"  and  we  will  appear 
with  Him  in  glory,  if  we  will  walk 
in  His  ways  and  keep  His  command- 
ments and  be  imbued  with  His  holy, 
righteous,  directing,  enlightening 
spirit.  May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to 
do,  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

A  male  quartet,  consisting  of 
James  Moncar,  Hyrum  J.  Christian- 
sen, August  Glissmeyer  and  Albert 
E,  Braby  sang  the  hymn,  "O,  give 
me  back  my  Prophet  Dear,"  to  Prof. 
Evan  Stephens'  music. 

PREST.  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

Duties  of  Seventies  clearly  denned — 
To  preach  the  Gospel  abroad,  and  at 
home — To  be  preferably  selected  for 
that  purpose — The  lesser  to  assist 
the  higher  in  home  missionary  labor 
— Duty  of  all  to  work  diligently  in 
priesthood  callings— Great  revival 
expected  in  Seventies'  work. 

How  delighted  we  have  all  been 
today  in  listening  to  the  instructions 
and  testimonies  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, and  the  doctrines  that  have 
been  unfolded  to  our  minds — very 
important  and  very  precious — in  re- 
gard to  our  Savior,  on  this  day 
somewhere  near  the  anniversary  of 
His  resurrection,  near  enough  as  we 
all  consider  it,  all  Christian  people. 
I  feel  very  grateful  that  it  falls  to 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


43 


my  lot  to  follow  my  brethren  for  a 
few  minutes  upon  subjects  that  are 
very  close  to  our  hearts,  and  that 
belong  to  us  who  are  the  representa- 
tives of  our  Savior,  bearing  divine 
authority  from  Him.  I  appreciate 
it  all  the  more  because  there  is  so 
important  a  body  of  our  brethren 
right  here  in  front  of  me,  and  I 
don't  know  how  long  it  will  be  be- 
fore I  will  have  another  opportunity 
of  speaking  to  such  a  body  of  men — 
the  leading  brethren  from  all  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  many  of  the  mis- 
sions, and  from  many  of  the  wards 
of  the  Church. 

As  you  have  listened  so  profound- 
ly to  the  brethren  who  have  already 
spoken,  I  wouldn't  have  you  forget 
anything  that  they  have  said,  for  I 
shall  not  be  able  to  say  anything  to 
compare,  possibly,  with  what  they 
have  said ;  but  I  do  desire  of  you 
that  you  will  ask  the  Lord  to  help 
His  servant  the  few  minutes  that  he 
shall  speak,  and  then  I  would  like 
you  to  pay  particular  attention,  and 
keep  awake,  and  hear  every  word  I 
say  and  treasure  them  up  and  profit 
by  them.  I  want  to  read  a  few 
words  from  our  Savior  which  are 
found  in  the  107  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  commencing 
with  the  33d  verse ;  the  Lord  says : 

The  Twelve  are  a  traveling  presid- 
ing High  Council,  to  officiate  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  agree- 
able to  the  institution  of  heaven;  to 
build  up  the  Church,  and  regulate  all 
the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  nations; 
first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  secondly 
unto  the  Jews. 

The  seventy  are  to  act  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Twelve  or  the  traveling  High  Council, 
in  building  up  the  Church  and  regulat- 
ing all  the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all 
nations — first  unto  the  Gentiles  and 
then  to  the  Jews; 

The  Twelve  being  sent  out,  holding 
the  keys,  to  open  the  door    by  the 


proclamation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ — and  first  unto  the  Gentiles  and 
then  unto  the  Jews.    *    *    *  * 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  traveling  High 
Council  to  call  upon  the  seventy,  when 
they  need  assistance,  to  fill  the  several 
calls  for  preaching  and  administering 
the  gospel,  instead  of  any  others. 

I  desire  to  draw  your  attention, 
my  brethren,  to  the  fact  disclosed  in 
these  words  of  the  Lord — that  the 
Twelve  are  traveling  elders,  and 
that  the  seventies  also  are  traveling 
elders  and  are  expected  to  join  in 
the  ministry  of  the  Lord  to  preach 
the  Gospel  throughout  the  earth ; 
and  T  would  like  to  draw  your  at- 
tention to  the  fact  that  the  Twelve 
are  now  and  have  always  been  so 
engaged  since  they  were  chosen  in 
this  generation  ;  they  have  been  min- 
ute men  and  traveling  elders. 
Though  composing  the  traveling 
presiding  High  Council  of  the 
Church,  they  are  always  in  the  field, 
always  traveling  and  laboring.  You 
have  seen  them  and  you  do  see  them 
from  week  to  week,  from  month  to 
month,  and  from  year  to  year.  They 
come  in  your  neighborhood  and  they 
assist  you  in  regulating  and  setting 
in  order  the  affairs  of  the  Church  in 
your  stakes  and  wards,  and  they 
give  careful  attention  to  the  prepar- 
ation of  the  elders  that  are  called 
into  the  ministry  abroad. 

Now  it  is  disclosed  here  that  in- 
stead of  other  men  it  is  required  of 
us  to  first  call  upon  the  seventies  to 
assist  us  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel ;  and  we  have  set  a  proper 
example  by  taking  hold  of  the  first 
seven  presidents,  the  first  council  of 
seventy,  and  you  will  notice  that 
they  always  travel  with  us.  Have 
you  noticed  that  they  go  from  stake 
to  stake  as  we  do,  that  they  labor 
with  us,  and  assist  us,  and  are  in 
council  with  us,  and  that  they  give 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


attention  to  the  calling  of  seventies, 
the  organization  of  quorums,  and  so 
forth,  and  preparing  the  brethren 
for  their  ministry  abroad?  Now  we 
have  latterly  been  giving  a  little 
more  definite  thought  to  the  minis- 
try in  the  world,  a  little  more  definite 
than  we  have  done  in  the  past,  and 
we  have  found  this  to  be  the  case, 
that  other  brethren  of  necessity — I 
want  to  say  of  necessity — have  been 
called  into  the  field,  and  they  have 
answered  the  call.  The  High  Priests 
and  the  elders  have  generally  gone 
into  the  field,  and  are  today  accom- 
plishing the  work  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  more  generally  than  ought 
to  be  required  of  them,  for  the  rea- 
son that  the  seventies  have  not  been 
called.  The  reason  that  they  have 
not  been  called  is  because  they  are 
men  occupied  in  all  business  affairs, 
their  hands  are  full  of  business  of 
all  kinds,  and  they  have  been  ex- 
cused. We  have  excused  them  more, 
possibly,  than  we  ought  to  have 
done,  I  rather  think ;  but  at  any  rate, 
we  have  come  to  the  conclusion  it  is 
time  now  that  the  thousands  of  sev- 
enties that  we  have  in  the  Church 
should  have  the  right  of  way,  to 
give  them  opportunity  so  that  every 
seventy  shall  go  into  the  field  at  least 
once  and  preach  the  Gospel.  If  he 
is  very  suitable  and  able,  and  con- 
ditions and  necessary  circumstances 
such  that  it  is  reasonably  possible 
for  him,  he  can  go  twice,  and  then 
possibly  a  third  time.  I  remember 
going  myself  when  I  was  a  seventy, 
and  I  have  been  a  seventy  always 
since.  I  went  abroad  also  when  I 
was  a  high  priest,  and  have  gone 
since  I  was  in  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  have  been  a  minute 
man  in  preaching  the  Gospel 
at  home  all  the  time,  when  T  have 
been  at  home.  It  is  quite  proper 
that  the  seventies  while  they  are  at 


home  should  be  employed,  and  they 
are  being  faithfully  and  well  em- 
ployed at  home  by  the  bishops,  and 
the  presidents  of  their  stakes  in 
Zion.  It  is  all  right  that  they  should 
be  employed  there,  but  we  do  want 
to  come  to  the  time  when  the  seven- 
ties will  be  preaching  the  Gospel 
quite  generally  in  the  world,  every 
man  having  one  opportunity,  or  two 
or  three  as  the  case  may  be. 

It  took  me  forty  years  to  perform 
my  three  missions  abroad,  and  the 
balance  of  my  life  has  been  in  mis- 
ions  at  home,  before  I  was  in  the 
Council  and  since.  I  have  been  in 
the  field  all  the  time,  like  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  many 
others  of  the  brethren.  We 
have  been  in  the  field  and  there 
has  never  been  a  moment  but 
what  we  were  minute  men  and  ready 
for  the  fray.  I  state  this  matter 
now,  because  I  want  to  draw  the  at- 
tention of  the  bishops  to  it.  1  see 
the  bishops  are  gathered  here,  the 
high  councilors,  and  presidents  of 
stakes  and  so  forth,  and  patriarchs 
in  front ;  and  I  would  like  every 
bishop  and  every  president  to  bear 
in  mind  and  take  home  with  them 
the  spirit  of  the  remarks  that  I  am 
about  to  make  here  to  you.  We 
want  you  to  consider  the  seventies; 
we  want  you  to  look  after  them ; 
we  want  you  to  breathe  the  spirit  of 
their  .ministry  into  them  and  con- 
sider them  when  application  is  made 
for  missionaries  from  your  stakes 
and  wards.  Consider  first  the  seven- 
ties :  and  as  far  as  they  are  able  and 
can  help  each  other,  able  to  take  care 
of  themselves,  and  with  what  assist- 
ance they  can  get  at  home,  we  want 
them  to  come  into  the  field.  The 
presidents  of  the  missions  have  been 
asking  for  them,  that  is,  asking  for 
men  of  experience,  men  of  age  that 
have  been  proven  and   tried,  that 


f RESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


45 


have  been  in  the  field  abroad  or  have 
been  workers  at  home. 

We  want  to  put  able  men  into  the 
field,  now  that  the  spirit  is  in  the 
earth  and  liberty  is  being  extended, 
and  especially  religious  liberty 
throughout  the  earth;  we  expect  it 
to  be  much  extended  after  the  war 
is  over  and  peace  is  declared.  The 
Twelve  have  been  out;  they  have 
been  in  the  world;  they  have  been 
in  all  the  countries  of  the  earth 
pretty  near,  and  have  blessed  the 
countries  and  blessed  the  people  and 
prepared  the  way  for  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel.  We  have  had  this  in 
our  hearts  and  souls  for  many  years, 
and  are  laboring  for  it,  and  we  want 
the  way  prepared ;  we  want  the  sev- 
enties that  are  here  in  the  sound  of 
my  voice  and  those  other  brethren 
that  are  here,  bishops  and  presidents 
of  stakes,  to  talk  upon  this  subject. 
We  want  them  to  get  ready  and  pre- 
pared for  the  ministry.  We  want 
them  to  do  what  they  are  able  to  do, 
and  we  don't  want  them  discour- 
aged ;  for  there  are  many  of  them, 
although  they  have  business  of  all 
kinds,  and  have  families  and  are 
building  their  homes,  and  accom- 
plishing wonders  at  home ;  but  most 
of  them  will  find  the  way  to  go  into 
the  field  and  teach  the  Gospel,  and 
they  can  afford  to  make  some  sac- 
rifices. WTe  must  make  some  sacri- 
fices and  overcome  some  difficulties 
in  order  to  accomplish  what  the 
Lord  requires  of  us  abroad  as  well 
as  at  home,  and  at  home  as  well  as 
abroad.  Under  the  direction  of  the 
Presiding  Seventy,  as  we  have  been 
talking  to  them  latterly  and  consid- 
ering this  matter,  we  desire  this  call 
and  this  consideration  to  go  to  every 
stake  and  ward,  and  to  every  council 
of  the  seventies,  to  councils  that  are 
complete  or  not  complete.  We  want 
the  seventies  to  come  to  the  rescue 


and  help  us  in  preaching  the  Gospel, 
and  we  expect  to  call  upon  them  in- 
stead of  any  others.  But  remember 
that  the  seventies  may  not  be  able  to 
monopolize  the  whole  field,  hence 
there  will  be  room  for  elders  and 
high  priests,  and  for  other  experi- 
enced men  outside  of  the  seventy, 
and  we  want  them  considered  also. 
While  we  have  been,  for  a  number 
of  years,  asking  that  one  experi- 
enced and  trained  man  should  be 
furnished  for  every  two  of  the 
younger  men  that  are  sent  out,  we 
ask  now  that  there  be  two  well  train- 
ed and  experienced  men  sent  out  for 
each  young  and  inexperienced  man 
that  is  sent.  We  want  able  and  ex- 
perienced men  that  have  been 
abroad,  or  have  been  laboring  most 
faithfully  at  home. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  brethren,  the 
high  priests  at  home,  that  we  do  not 
want  them  overlooked ;  we  want 
them  considered ;  men  that  have 
been  bishops  or  high-counselors,  and 
have  held  responsible  positions  and 
had  great  experience.  We  want 
them  to  have  opportunity  to  go 
abroad  as  well  as  the  seventies ; 
also,  we  want  the  balance  of  the 
room  that  is  to  spare  abroad  occu- 
pied by  able  elders.  We_ prefer  that 
you  should  keep  the  young  men — 
such  as  deacons  and  teachers  and 
priests — at  home  and  give  them 
thorough  training  in  the  lesser 
priesthood  ;  and  remember  that  the 
deacons  have  a  ministry  as  well  as 
the  teachers,  and  the  deacons'  min- 
istry is  that  of  assisting  the  teachers 
when  occasion  requires  ;  and  I  have 
always  interpreted  it  that  the  occa- 
sion always  requires  it.  We  want 
these  young  men  given  opportunity, 
and  we  want  them  employed.  We 
want  the  teachers  employed ;  we 
want  them  to  accompany  the  breth- 
ren that  are  called,  the  seventies  and 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


high  priests,  and  elders  that  are 
operating  as  teachers  at  home.  We 
want  the  teachers  of  the  lesser 
priesthood,  and  the  deacons,  to  have 
opportunity  to  visit  with  them,  that 
they  may  be  trained  and  have  ex- 
perience here  at  home  before  they 
are  sent  abroad.  You  would  be  as- 
tonished to  see  the  companies  of 
young  men  that  are  sent  to  us,  inex- 
perienced young  men,  only  recently 
ordained  elders  in  order  to  go  on 
missions.  When  they  give  their 
genealogies  we  find  they  are  teach- 
ers, sometimes  deacons  and  some- 
times priests,  that  are  just  ordained 
elders  in  order  that  they  may  go 
abroad  to  preach  the  Gospel, — un- 
trained, inexperienced.  They  should 
work  at  home  and  train  themselves, 
and  be  prepared  so  that  as  the  sev- 
enties are  depleted  and  pass  into  the 
high  priests  quorum,  at  the  age  of 
fifty  or  sixty  years,  and  there  is 
room  there,  we  want  the  able,  well 
trained  and  experienced  elders  to 
fill  their  places,  so  that  we  may  have 
seventies  enough  to  take  care  of  the 
ministry  abroad,  as  a  rule,  the  ex- 
ceptions being  where  we  need  to  use 
the  elders  and  high  priests. 

There  is  opportunity  for  all 
abroad;  and  if  there  is  anything 
lacking,  and  they  want  opportunity, 
we  have  it  at  home,  for  the  field  at 
home  will  never  be  overstocked  with 
men.  The  high  priests  and  elders  at 
home,  and  the  seventies  who  are 
generally  at  home,  and  will  be  gen- 
erally at  home,  because  they  are  not 
expected  all  to  be  in  the  field ;  a 
thousand  or  fifteen  hundred  or  two 
thousand  on  missions  at  a  time  will 
leave  about  eight  thousand  of  them 
always  at  home,  and  we  want  them 
to  work  at  home  as  well  as  they  have 
been  doing.  Don't  use  them  any 
less  at  home,  but  give  them  oppor- 
tunities to  preach  the    Gospel  at 


home  as  well  as  abroad.  The  able 
and  successful  bishops,  presidents  of 
stakes,  presidents  of  seventies  and 
of  elders,  and  of  high  priests  will 
furnish  employment ;  they  will  ar- 
range affairs  and  labors  at  home  so 
that  there  is  employment  for  every 
man  who  bears  the  priesthood. 
Every  man  who  bears  the  priesthood 
is  entitled  to  the  right  and  privilege 
of  magnifying  that  priesthood,  at 
home  or  abroad,  and  we  exhort  you 
my  brethren  who  have  charge  of 
these  matters  and  are  appointed  and 
ordained  for  that  purpose,  we  want 
you  to  see  to  it  that  employment  is 
furnished  every  man  that  you  lay 
your  hands  upon  and  ordain  to  the 
lesser  priesthood  or  to  the  Melchize- 
dek  priesthood.  Furnish  them  em- 
ployment at  home,  and  don't  be  sat- 
isfied with  having  ten  or  twenty  sev- 
enties doing  something,  preaching 
the  Gospel  at  home  to  the  strangers, 
to  those  that  are  not  of  our  faith, 
but  let  the  whole  army  of  seventies 
at  home  get  into  the  field,  and  the 
armies  of  high  priests  and  elders  be 
in  the  field,  every  man  magnifying 
his  calling  at  home  as  well  as 
abroad.  Let  that  be  done.  We  want 
that  to  be  done  and  we  will  not  be 
quite  satisfied  until  the  brethren  can 
report  that  every  member  of  our 
quorums  of  the  priesthood  is  doing 
something,  accomplishing  some- 
thing, and  you  will  be  astonished  at 
the  converts  that  can  be  made  at 
home. 

There  are  many  reported  now 
from  various  directions,  but  many 
more  will  be  in  a  little  while,  and 
you  will  be  astonished — if  you  go 
home  from  this  conference  and  take 
this  spirit  among  the  seventies, — 
you  will  be  astonished  at  the  num- 
ber of  seventies  that  will  be  ready 
at  the  call  and  recommendation  of 
the  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


47 


of  wards,  under  approval  of  the  pre- 
siding seventy.  They  are  acquainted 
with  them  as  they  are  with  the  other 
elders,  and  they  know  how  to  rec- 
ommend them,  and  to  consider  them 
and  weigh  them.  You  will  be  as- 
tonished to  see  how  the  spirit  will 
take  hold  of  the  seventies,  and  they 
will  be  prepared  and  ready  for  their 
work  abroad.  I  want  you  to  bear  in 
mind  that  the  body  of  the  Twelve 
are  giving  careful  attention  to  these 
matters.  Every  man  that  goes 
abroad  comes  immediately  under  the 
hands  of  the  Twelve  and  the  first 
council  of  seventies.  We  bless  every 
man  and  set  them  apart,  and  our 
sisters  also  who  go  into  the  field ; 
quite  a  number  of  them  are  being 
sent.  We  are  looking  after  this  mat- 
ter, and  we  want  everybody  bearing 
the  priesthood,  every  member  of  the 
priesthood,  we  want  them  to  have 
opportunity  to  magnify  their  priest- 
hood. 

Take  labor  upon  yourselves, 
brethren,  and  provide  labor  for  your 
neighbors  until  every  man  is  cared 
for,  every  high  priest  that  is  now 
careless  and  unemployed.  It  is  re- 
ported that  there  are  many  of  the 
priesthood  unemployed,  not  fully 
occupied,  not  doing  any  good  work 
— nothing  is  laid  out  for  them.  It  is 
not  every  man  that  knows  how  to 
employ  himself,  but  every  man 
should  know  how  to  employ  himself 
especially  when  he  has  had  experi- 
ence, been  abroad  in  the  field,  or 
laboring  at  home  in  important  posi- 
tions. These  brethren  should  know 
how  to  set  themselves  to  work  and 
do  many  things  that  they  are  not 
told  to  do  that  they  discover  ought 
to  be  done,  for  the  inspiration  of  the 
priesthood  should  dwell  in  the  heart 
of  every  man  who  receives  it ;  his 
eyes  should  be  opened,  his  ears 
should  be  opened,  his  heart  should 


be  touched,  ready  and  prepared  to 
do  some  work  for  somebody ;  and 
when  you  labor  for  your  brother 
you  always  get  the  chief  reward 
yourself.  You  may  help  him  some, 
you  may  do  him  good,  a  world  of 
good,  but  there  is  always  greater 
good  comes  to  you  who  do  the  labor 
— everyone — and  we  want  that 
fashion  followed.  We  don't  want  to 
give  our  entire  attention  now  to  the 
seventies,  in  getting  them  in  their 
field,  but  we  want  the  high  priests 
taken  care  of,  and  we  want  the 
elders  taken  care  of ;  for  the  elders 
are  two  or  three  times  as  numerous 
as  are  the  seventies,  two  or  three 
times  as  numerous  as  are  the  high 
priests.  The  high  priests  compare 
about  with  the  seventies,  but  the 
elders  are  much  more  numerous, 
and  it  will  put  you  to  your  wits'  end 
to  find  something  for  them  to  do.  If 
they  are  idle  they  are  mischievous 
and  liable  to  get  into  trouble  and 
difficulty,  and  they  should  be  taken 
care  of.  If  they  labor,  if  they  work 
day  by  day  and  magnify  their  call- 
ing they  will  grow  stronger  and 
stronger  unto  their  perfect  day. 

Now  I  feel  delighted  with  this 
privilege  of  speaking  to  this  body 
of  men,  and  I  want  you  to  remem- 
ber what  I  have  said,  in  connection 
with  what  we  have  heard  here — the 
testimonies  that  have  been  given  us 
by  the  Presidency  today.  Bear  in 
mind  this  mission,  and  the  sugges- 
tions and  instructions  in  regard  to 
the  magnifying  of  the  priesthood 
here  at  home,  and  magnifying  it  also 
abroad.  Brother  Hyrum  M.  Smith 
has  sent  quite  a  requisition  for  some 
able  elders  that  can  come  and  labor 
with  him,  whose  conditions  and  cir- 
cumstances at  home  will  allow  them 
to  stay  until  they  have  finished  their 
missions,  and  that  call  will  be  a 
small  one  comparatively.    We  want 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


at  least  one  seventy  from  every  quo- 
rum ;  we  want  five  seventies  from 
every  quorum  that  is  able  to  send 
them  ;  or  seven,  that  will  only  be  one 
man  out  of  ten,  something-  like  that, 
to  go  abroad,  and  the  others  remain- 
ing at  home  and  helping  each  other 
when  it  is  necessary.  But  you  will 
be  astonished,  when  you  inquire 
after  the  seventies  and  look  right 
after  them,  to  find  the  great  number 
of  them  that  are  able  to  take  care 
of  themselves  and  their  families, 
and  go  and  preach  the  gospel  for 
three  years  and  then  come  home  and 
stay  six  or  ten  years  and  then  go 
again  when  they  are  wanted. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  my  breth- 
ren. Think  of  these  matters,  give 
attention  to  them,  and  yon  will  find 
the  presiding  seventy  around  look- 
ing after  you  and  feeling  after  the 
members  of  their  quorums,  and  thev 
will  be  calling  upon  you  and  want 
you  to  consider  them.  Thev  have 
felt  just  a  little  bit  overlooked.  T 
believe  the  seventies  have  b°en  over- 
looked too  much,  and  we  have  de- 
pended upon  elders,  and  young  men 
and  inexnerienced  men  to  go  out 
and  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  world, 
and  we  want  all  the  brethren  to  have 
opportunity  to  magnify  their  calling 
as  they  are  required.  You  notice 
whenever  we  call  men  to  preside 
over  stakes,  or  over  wards,  or  over 
quorums,  or  to  go  on  missions,  that 
they  are  expected  to  go  at  once  into 
the  field,  and  so  it  should  be  with 
every  man  who  receives  the  priest- 
hood. TTe  receives  a  commission 
from  the  Lord,  and  he  should  take 
hold  of  it  and  magnify  it  to  the  best 
of  his  ability,  and  the  Lord  will  open 
the  way  for  the  good  that  is  possible 
for  him  to  accomplish. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  pray.  Let  the  spirit  of  this 
conference  go  home  with  you,  and 


vou  will  be  astonished  what  will  be 
accomplished  within  the  next  six 
months,  between  now  and  October ; 
and  the  presiding"  seventies  will  be 
able  to  tell  us  quite  a  story  of  what 
is  being  done  in  this  movement  for 
the  seventies.  May  the  Lord  bless 
vou  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  Smith  read  several 
notices,  and  said : 

"Now,  I  don't  want  any  of  you 
to  put  your  hands  in  your  pockets, 
for  fear  somebody  will  see  you  do 
it.  but  I  am  requested  to  warn  the 
congregation  to  look  after  their 
valuables  if  they  have  any  with 
them,  as  we  are  favored— or  un- 
fortunate— to  have  a  large  number 
of  light-fingered  "gentlemen"  in  the 
city,  who  are  on  their  wax-  to  the 
San  Francisco  Fair,  and  are  look- 
ing out  for  a  chance.  Take  care  of 
your  money,  and  don't  show  them 
where  it  is." 

"A  Lullaby"  was  rendered  by  a 
chorus  of  ladies,  conducted  by  ^i>ter 
Lizzie  Thomas  Edward. 

The  anthem.  "Grant  us  Peace," 
was  sung  by  the  choir,  Mrs.  Sarah 
L.  Wood  and  James  Moncar  ren- 
dering the  duet. 

Bishop  David  A.  Smith  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Mon- 
day, April  5th,  at  10  a.  m. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
MEETING. 

Another  meeting  of  the  Confer- 
ence was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
at  2  p.  m.,  at  which  Elder  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  presided ;  and  the  Cot- 
tonwood stake  choir  was  again  in 
attendance. 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 


49 


The  service  was  commenced  by 
the  Choir  singing-,  the  hymn : 

"An  angel  from  on  high, 

The  long,  long  silence  broke." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Bishop 
Joseph  A.  Buttle. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem, 
"Daughter  of  Zion." 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President  of  Eastern  States  Mission.) 

Words  fail  to  express  the  grati- 
tude which  I  have  in  meeting  with 
you,  this  beautiful  Easter  Sunday, 
and  in  experiencing  the  sweet  in- 
fluence which  has  characterized  this 
conference  thus  far.  I  have  often 
heard,  while  in  the  world,  the  beau- 
tiful hymn : 

"O  ye  mountains  high, 
Where  the  clear  blue  sky 

Arches  over  the  vales  of  the  free; 
Where  the  pure  breezes  blow, 
And  the  clear  streamlets  flow, 

How  I  long  to  your  bosom  to  flee." 

Never  has  that  hymn  been  sung, 
in  my  hearing,  while  I  have  been 
away  from  the  body  of  the  Church, 
but  what  I  have  had  a  longing,  a 
yearning  for  this  land  which  is  so 
dear  to  me.  I  have  often  thought  of 
St.  Bernard  who,  when  he  visited 
Switzerland,  looked  over  the  beau- 
tiful lakes,  and  saw  the  magnificent 
picture  that  was  presented  to  him, 
how  he  covered  his  eyes  lest  the 
glorious  scenes  should  detract  from 
his  love  for  duty,  and  from  the  love 
which  he  bore  to  his  Maker.  When 
I  come  into  the  vales  of  these  moun- 
tains, and  see  the  snow-capped 
peaks,  that  are  familiar  to  me,  there 
seems  to  be  a  necessity  for  me  to 
cover  my  eyes  also,  lest  the  appeal 
should  be  so  strong  that  it  would 


detract  from  my  desire  to  do  my 
duty.  I  love  these  glorious  moun- 
tains, and  more  than  the  mountains, 
I  love  the  people  who  dwell  here. 
More  than  the  people  who  dwell 
here,  even  father  and  mother,  houses 
and  lands,  and  wife  and  children,  I 
love  that  cause  which  I  have  been 
sent  out  into  the  world  to  represent. 

Eighty-five  years  ago  this  Church 
was  organized  with  only  six  mem- 
bers, in  the  State  of  New  York,  the 
state  where,  perhaps,  the  greatest 
opposition  is  now  prevailing  against 
this  work,  and  against  this  people. 
When  we  look  over  our  weekly  re- 
ports, in  the  mission  field,  we  see 
there  are  only  few  baptisms,  if  any. 
The  elders  are  plodding  along,  as  it 
were,  gleaning  from  among  the 
crowded  cities  of  the  world,  and 
from  country  districts,  those  who 
have  a  greater  love  for  God  than 
they  have  for  their  self-ambitions. 
It  seems  that  the  progress  is  not  of 
the  proportions  that  our  elders 
would  like  to  see  it ;  arid  oftentimes 
an  elder  will  express  himself,  that 
he  cannot  see  any  good  resulting 
from  his  labors.  But  when  we  stop 
to  consider  the  report  that  was  read 
this  morning  by  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent, Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  see  how 
the  Saints  have  been  gathered  from 
the  various  parts  of  the  earth,  how 
diligent  they  have  been,  not  merely 
seeking  this  world's  treasures,  but 
how  willingly  they  have  laid'  on  the 
altar  of  sacrifice  much  of  the  means 
they  have  acquired  to  come  and 
enter  the  House  of  the  Lord,  where 
they  have  done  a  magnificent  and 
stupendous  work  for  those  who  have 
gone  beyond,  those  that  were  less 
fortunate  than  we.  It  causes  my 
heart  to  leap  with  joy  to  know  that 
my  parents  had  the  courage  and 
fortitude  to  leave  their  possessions, 
and  everything  that  was  near  and 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


clear  unto  them,  and  come  into  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  where  such 
love  for  truth  can  bear  fruit  in  the 
hearts  of  their  children. 

I  love  the  people  of  the  Lord.  I 
love  to  see  the  progress  that  this 
work  is  making.  Perhaps  that  can- 
not be  seen  or  counted  numerically 
only.  I  believe  that  the  Almighty 
has  anticipated  this  very  condition, 
for  we  read  in  the  13th  chapter  of 
Matthew  a  statement  made  by  the 
Master,  that  the  kingdom  of  God 
was  likened  unto  leaven  which  was 
hid  in  three  measures  of  meal,  and 
which  leavened  the  whole  lump.  In 
order  to  measure  the  success  attend- 
ant upon  the  work  of  the  mission- 
aries in  the  world,  one  must  under- 
stand what  the  teachings  of  sectar- 
ian ministers  were  about  eighty-five 
years  ago,  in  the  year  1830,  and  then 
compare  the  teachings  of  the  same 
sects  and  organizations  of  today. 
If  you  will  turn  back  the  pages  of 
ecclesiastical  history,  you  will  find 
great  speakers  whose  sermons  are  a 
matter  of  record,  who  taught  that 
awful  doctrine  of  hell  fire,  that  un- 
less a  person  would  be  willing  to 
kneel  before  the  penitent  bench,  he 
would  go  into  an  ever-burning  and 
never-ending  hell.  About  twenty- 
five  years  ago  this  doctrine  began  to 
be  disowned  by  the  churches  of  the 
world,  and  thus  it  seems  that  one 
particle  of  the  Gospel  leaven  has 
entered  into  the  souls  of  the  children 
of  men,  and  they  have  cast  off  that 
damnable  doctrine.  Also,  there  was 
the  doctrine  taught  that  infants, 
whose  parents  refused  to  have  them 
christened,  or  baptized,  would  go  to 
a  never-ending  hell,  there,  perhaps, 
to  serve  as  kindling  for  the  devil. 
But  these  things  have  now  been  dis- 
carded. I  doubt  whether  there  was 
ever  a  person  who  has  lived  upon 
the  earth,  and  who  had  been  called 


upon  to  lay  away  a  little  one  from 
its  mother's  arms,  and  buried  it  in 
the  grave  that  ever  thought  that  that 
child  went  to  hell.  It  is  people  out- 
side of  that  relationship  who  have 
thought  that  such  a  little  one  was 
going  to  a  never-ending  hell.  The 
love  of  Christ  has  more  fully  entered 
into  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men.  All  are  growing  nearer  to  it, 
and  even  though  the  people  seek  to 
destroy  the  work  of  the  Lord,  yet 
these  things  which  God  has  or- 
dained, these  works  which  He  has 
performed,  albeit  by  the  slowest 
growth,  will  stand  and  endure.  Some 
one  has  said,  ''God  can  make  an  oak 
tree  in  a  hundred  years,  and  can 
make  a  mush-room  in  one  night." 
We  must  reach  out  to  the  one  hun- 
dred year  mark  before  the  wonder- 
ful growth  is  fully  recognized,  as 
shown  by  the  testimonial  that  you 
give  in  your  attendance  upon  this 
conference,  and  the  love  and  devo- 
tion you  show  to  the  cause. 

In  looking  through  one  of  the 
large  book  stores  in  New  York  City, 
I  discovered  a  work  entitled  "A 
Century's  Change  in  religion."  This 
has  come  from  the  press  at  as  late 
a  date  as  Nov.,  1914.  It  is  written 
by  one  George  Harris,  a  very 
learned  divine.  There  are  many 
things  contained  therein  that  we 
cannot  accept,  I  may  say,  as  gospel 
truth ;  yet  there  are  many  things 
which  he  points  out  that  have  come 
about  by  the  evolution  of  thought, 
and  the  culling  process  of  truth.  The 
author  shows  how  many  of  the  er- 
rors which  our  fathers  inherited 
have  been  dead  and  buried  for  a 
number  of  years.  I  desire  to  read 
an  extract  from  his  Introductory : 

"I  select  this  period  also  because  a 
large  part  of  it  is  within  the  recollec- 
tion of  many  now  living.  Indeed, 
those  discoveries  and  influences  which 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MO N SON 


51 


have,  or  are  supposed  to  have,  brought 
these  changes  have  come  upon  us 
within  the  last  fifty  years.  I  do  not 
mean  that  religious  beliefs  and  prac- 
tices were  stationary  for  eighteen 
hundred  years,  or  during  the  first  half 
of  the  19th  century,  but  that  the 
changes  of  the  last  fifty  years  are  more 
marked  than  those,  we  may  almost 
say,  of  all  the  time  preceding." 

Is  it  not  a  remarkable  statement 
for  a  minister  to  make,  that  the  last 
fifty  years  has  seen  greater  religious 
advancement  than  all  preceding  time 
since  Jesus  came  and  ushered  in  His 
reign.  I  wonder  if  we  realize  the 
effect  of  the  efforts  of  our  humble 
elders  in  crystalizing  these  truths 
in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 
Now  I  will  read  to  you  an  extract 
concerning  a  doctrine  that  has  been 
entirely  ignored,  or  ridiculed,  by 
most  of  the  ministers  of  the  Chris- 
tian world.  It  was  a  startling  reve- 
lation to  me  to  know  that  people  in 
the  world  have  so  far  ran  into  the 
realm  of  truth  that  they  are  growing 
into  the  desire  to  do  work  for  their 
dead : 

"About  thirty  years  ago  a  curious 
controversy  arose,  as  to  the  decisive- 
ness of  this  life.  It  led  to  the  trial  of 
five'  professors  in  the  Theological 
Seminary  at  Andover,  Massachusetts, 
who,  it  was  alleged,  taught  that  those 
who  had  not  heard  of  Christ  in  this 
life,  the  heathen,  the  generations  be- 
fore Christ,  might,  after  death,  have 
knowledge  of  Him  and  repent  and  be 
saved.  A  foreign  missionary  society 
refused  for  several  years  to  appoint 
as  missonaries  young  men  who 
thought  it  possible  that  those  who 
did  not  have  the  Gospel  in  this  life 
might,  after  death,  have  opportunity 
to  believe  on  Christ,  or  who  went  no 
further  than  saying  that  they  did  not 
know  the  fate  of  the  heathen. 

"The  accused  professors  argued 
from  the  universality  of  the  Gospel. 
Christ  died  for  all  men,  and  since  none 
can  be  saved  except  they  believe  on 
Christ,  it  would  seem  that  all  men  will 
have    the    opportunity    of  knowing 


Christ;  that  if  there  are  any,  and  there 
are  certainly  many,  who  do  not  know 
Him  in  this  life,  they  will  know  Him 
in  the  intermediate  state,  before  the 
day  of  judgment.  It  was  thought  that 
scripture  lends  itself  to  such  a  hope, 
for  an  apostle  says  that  Christ,  'having 
been  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but 
quickened  in  the  spirit,  went  and 
preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison 
which  aforetime  were  disobedient  in 
the  time  of  Noah;'  and  again  says,  'For 
unto  this  end  was  the  Gospel  preached 
even  to  the  dead;'  and  the  most 
ancient  creed  of  the  Church  says,  that 
Christ  crucified,  dead  and  buried,  de- 
scended into  Hades,  the  abode  of  de- 
parted spirit. 

"The  accusers  said  that  scripture  is 
emphatic  on  the  decisiveness  of  this 
life,  since  it  affirms  that  men  shall 
be  judged  acording  to  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body;  that  now  is  the  day  of 
salvation;  and  said  that  the  passages 
in  Peter  are  obscure.  They  also  de- 
clared that  the  'nerve  of  missions' 
would  be  cut,  if  it  were  supposed  that 
the  heathen  would  have  opportunity 
of  salvation  after  death;  that  is,  that 
the  motive  of  missions  is  the  fact  that 
the  heathen  are  going  down  to  perdi- 
tion. Other  charges  were  brought,  as 
that  the  professors  taught  that  there 
are  imperfections  in  the  Bible;  but 
the  gravamen  of  the  accusation  was 
that  these  teachers  believed  and  taught 
that  there  may  be  a  second  probation, 
and  that  such  an  opinion  is  very 
dangerous,  that  men  will  postpone  re- 
pentance to  a  more  convenient  season. 

"The  Board  of  Visitors  of  the 
Seminary,  before  whom  the  professors 
were  tried,  removed  one  of  them  from 
office,  acquitting  four,  although  the 
evidence  was  the  same  for  all;  the 
case  was  carried  to  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Massachusetts;  the  decision  of  the 
Visitors  against  the  removed  professor 
was  declared  invalid,  on  the  ground 
that  the  other  Board  of  the  Seminary, 
the  Trustees,  were  not  made  a  part  in 
the  trial.  It  is  not  yet  twenty-five 
years  since  the  verdict  was  given,  yet 
it  is  rather  difficult  not  to  realze  what 
it  was  all  about.  It  shows,  however, 
how  real  the  unseen  world  was,  how 
intimately  related  the  realms  of  light 
and  darkness  were  to  this  world  in 
the  thought  of  men." 

Now  I  wonder  where  they  got 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  from !  Surely  the  spirit  of 
Elijah  has  spread  out  over  the 
world,  and  it  is  "turning  the  hearts 
of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and 
the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  the  earth  be  smitten 
with  a  curse."  I  will  read  a  little 
further : 

"We  do  not  profess  so  intimate 
knowledge  of  the  unseen  world,  nor 
affirm  positively  that  this  life  deter- 
mines the  life  to  come.  We  do  not 
speculate  about  it,  we  refuse  to  be- 
leve  that  all  who  have  not  consciously 
accepted  Christ,  those  cut  off  in  youth, 
those  who  grew  up  in  vicious  sur- 
roundings, those  who  never  heard  of 
Christ,  are  doomed  to  eternal  woe. 
The  mercy  of  the  Lord  is  from  ever- 
lasting to  everlasting.  And  now  a 
very  orthodox  writer  says,  in  a  book 
published  by  the  American  Tract 
Society  which  is  most  evangelical, 
and  no  one  protests: 

"  'We  repeat  with  all  sacred  empha- 
sis the  words,  '  'the  Gospel  was 
preached  even  to  the  dead."  We  note 
the  instance  that  is  given,  the  spirits 
in  prison,  which  aforetime  were  diso- 
bedient in  the  time  of  Noah,  that  is, 
the  spirits  of  those  who  perished  in  the 
flood.  We  must  not  dogmatize, 
we  need  not  vainly  guess;  but 
we  may  reverently  affirm  that  the  Son 
of  man  is  capable  of  reaching  and  in- 
fluencing the  souls  of  men  on  yon  side 
of  the  veil,  as  well  as  on  this;  and  that 
in  a  degree  and  by  means  infinitely 
beyond  anything  that  science  or  faith 
can  either  dream  or  discover.'  " 

The  same  writer  says : 

"  'The  horrible  invention  of  a  pur- 
gatory, from  which  man's  enlightened 
conscience  revolts,  and  which  the 
Word  of  God  makes  absolutely  incred- 
ible, has  produced  a  violent  reaction 
in  modern  minds,  whereby  even  the 
idea  of  Hades — the  scriptural  idea  of 
an  intermediate  state,  where  departed 
spirits  await  the  resurrection  of  their 
bodies — is  rudely  blotted  out,  and  so 
one  of  the  grandest  and  one  of  the 
most  fruitful  periods  of  man's  educa- 
tion for  eternity  is  an  utter  blank  in 
the  minds  of  most  of  us.  But  we  re- 
fuse to  be  robbed  of  what  the  Holy 
Ghost  saith;  whether  by  the  abuses 


of  Roman  excess  or  by  the  violence 
of  Protestant  reaction.  We  hold  to 
the  teaching  of  Holy  Scripture — what- 
ever may  be  the  peril  to  a  narrow 
sectarian  type  of  orthodoxy.  There 
is  no  purgatory,  but  there  is  an  inter- 
mediate state.  And  the  only  glimpse 
we  get  into  that  world  unseen 
(Hades),  reveals  to  us  the  Spirit  of 
Jesus  proclaiming  His  Gospel  unto 
the  dead.  Here  let  our  authoritative 
teaching  regarding  the  matter  begin 
and  end,  flooding  all  the  world  of 
Hades  with  the  light  of  the  Savior's 
presence  and  the  music  of  his  blessed 
voice.' ' 

"I  think  all  will  agree  that  everlast- 
ing punishment  is  seldom,  if  ever, 
mentioned  in  the  pulpit  now  that  the 
word  'hell'  seldom  crosses  the  lips  of 
any  preacher.  While  it  is  believed 
that  a  man  may  be  morally  ruined,  the 
conception  is  rather  of  character  de- 
based, degenerated  beyond  hope  of  re- 
covery, than  of  acute  physical  suf- 
fering. The  fire  that  is  not  quenched, 
the  worm  that  dieth  not,  are,  it  is 
thought,  figures  of  corrosion  and  de- 
cay. The  lake  that  burnetii  with  fire 
and  brimstone  for  ever  and  ever  is 
symbolic  of  lost  souls  consumed  with 
remorse.  There  is  nothing  more 
dreadful  than  a  ruined  soul,  a  hard- 
ened heart.  Character  is  fixed  by 
purpose,  and  it  may  be  that  after  a 
time  it  cannot  be  changed.  Judgment 
is  upon  character;  heaven  is  good 
character,  Christ-like  character;  hell 
is  bad  character,  selfish,  grasping,  un- 
sympathetic character." 

Some  "Mormon"  elder  must  have 
explained  these  blessed  principles  to 
those  who  were  moved  upon  to  write 
such  glorious  truths.  When  we  see 
the  leaven  raising  the  entire  lump, 
our  hearts  are  made  to  rejoice  in  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel.  His  work  is 
not  marked  out  by  that  which  can 
be  seen  by  human  eyes,  but  it  is 
eternal  in  character,  and  of  univer- 
sal dominion,  and  will  endure 
throughout  the  ages  to  come. 

I  rejoice  in  having  this  oppor- 
tunity of  bearing  my  testimony,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  I  feel  that 
I  know  that  God  lives.   There  is  no 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART. 


fiber  of  my  being  that  does  not  re- 
spond in  joyous  love  to  God,  for 
the  light  and  truth  that  He  has 
given  unto  me,  for  I  feel  that  the 
most  sacred  obligation  that  I  have 
is  to  see  to  it  that  the  sentiment 
never  enters  my  heart,  "Am  I  my 
brother's  keeper?"  The  Lord  has 
said  of  His  Saints-.  "Ye  are  the 
salt  of  the  earth."  No  good  house- 
wife ever  makes  a  meal  of  salt,  she 
uses  just  enough  to  make  the  meal 
palatable.  Your  sons  and  daughters 
out  in  the  mission  field,  are  a 
Sprinkling  of  salt  in  the  fleshpots  of 
the  world.  O,  it  causes  my  heart 
to  rejoice  to  contemplate  these 
things.  An  article  from  a  very 
scholarly  writer,  says  that  the  word 
"salt"  and  the  word  "Savior"  came 
from  the  same  root  word.  You 
now  can  see  the  beauty  in  the  pass- 
age with  such  an  explanation,  "Ye 
are  the  salt  of  the  earth" — ye  are 
the  saviors  of  the  earth.  How  many 
of  us  have  had  it  stated  in  our 
patriarchal  blessings :  "And  you 
shall  come  forth  and  stand  as  a 
savior  on  Mount  Zion,  crowned  with 
immortality  and  eternal  life  !" 

May  God  bless  us  with  His  Holy 
Spirit,  that  the  greater  degree  of  the 
religion  of  love,  which  is  sure  to 
follow  the  darkness  of  the  exist- 
ing horrible  war,  may  find  a  rest- 
ing place  first  in  the  hearts  of  God's 
people  throughout  the  world,  as 
enunciated  by  our  beloved  prophet, 
seer  and  revelator  this  morning. 
May  God  add  His  blessing  to  us  all, 
I  ask  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART. 

(President  of  Rigby  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
here  this  afternoon  because  I  was 
requested  to  be  here.  I  always  pre- 
fer to  sit  in  the  audience  rather  than 


to  occupy  a  place  upon  the  stand.  I 
am  entirely  relying  upon  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  to  assist  me  in  this  posi- 
tion this  afternoon.  I  know  that  if 
I  say  anything  that  will  be  of  in- 
terest to  us,  or  be  beneficial,  that  it 
will  be  through  His  help,  because  in 
and  of  myself  I  am  inadequate  to 
successfully  occupy  such  a  respon- 
sible position  as  has  been  allotted  to 
me  here. 

There  is  a  passage  of  scripture 
that  very  often  comes  to  my  mind. 
It  is  a  passage  that  I  think  of  a 
great  deal,  as  it  seems  to  me  of  great 
importance  to  all  mankind:  "This 
is  eternal  life  to  know  Thee,  the  only 
true  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
Thou  hast  sent."  In  other  words, 
if  we  attain  to  the  greatest  blessing 
that  is  in  store  for  mankind,  that  of 
eternal  life,  it  is  absolutely  necessary 
that  we  gain  for  ourselves  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son, 
a  knowledge  of  their  attributes,  of 
their  characteristics  and  of  our  re- 
lationship to  them,  as  mortals  here 
upon  the  earth.  I  want  to  say,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  key  of 
this  knowledge  has  been  restored  to 
the  earth  in  this  dispensation.  It 
has  come  through  the  restoration  of 
the  Gospel  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  We  are  fully  aware  that,  at 
the  time  when  this  great  revelation 
was  given  unto  this  young  man, 
actual  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God 
and  our  Heavenly  Father  was  not  in 
existence  in  the  world.  There  was 
no  religious  denomination  teaching 
the  truth  concerning  those  holy 
Beings.  Mankind  were  being  taught 
that  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  was 
a  Being  or  a  something  that  was  not 
tangible,  that  He  had  neither  body, 
parts  nor  passions,  that  He  was 
some  mythical  being  that  we  could 
not  and  ought  not  to  be  able  to  be- 
hold, or  comprehend.   I  am  justified 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  saying  that,  at  the  present  time, 
by  virtue  of  this  key  of  knowledge 
coming  to  earth  in  this  dispensation, 
and  through  the  proclamation  there- 
of by  our  humble  elders,  who  have 
been  sent  to  the  world  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  the  doctrine  of  a  bodiless 
and  passionless  God,  and  a  throne- 
less  heaven,  is  not  so  prevalent,  and 
the  truth  is  taking  the  place  thereof. 

One  of  the  great  testimonies  that 
has  come  under  my  observation,  is 
the  change  that  is  taking  hold  of 
men's  minds  concerning  religious 
principles  and  doctrines.  Great  men 
have  come  forward  and  advocated  a 
principle  that  borders  on  the  truth 
that  has  been  restored  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  They  have  not  got  it 
from  any  of  their  creeds,  because  it 
is  not  taught  in  any  of  them  ;  but 
they  perceived  a  glimmer  of  light, 
and  they  have  put  forth  their  views 
along  these  lines,  and  it  appears  that 
they  are  approaching  a  true  and  cor- 
rect theory  and  idea  concerning 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  He  hath  sent. 

These  wonderful  conference  gath- 
erings, are  also  a  testimony  to  me, 
and  I  do  not  know  where  you  could 
go  in  all  the  world  and  see  anything 
equal  to  this  that  is  before  us  today, 
these  wonderful  gatherings  of  peo- 
ple from  all  parts  of  the  earth,  we 
might  say.  '  They  have  come  up  here 
according  to  appointment,  to  be  in- 
structed in  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 
They  have  left  their  labors,  their 
business  and  their  worldly  affairs 
behind  them.  They  spend  their  own 
money,  and  give  their  time  and 
means  to  come  here  and  hear  in- 
structions from  the  Lord,  that  they 
may  carry  them  back  to  the  people 
with  whom  they  associate  in  these 
United  States,  and  abroad  also.  We 
do  not  gain  converts  through  hold- 
ing religious  revivals,  or  on  account 


of  being  able  to  send  men  into  the 
world  who  have  acquired  ability  to 
preach  the  Gospel;  but  we  send, 
largely,  young  boys  and  girls  who 
are  inexperienced,  and  they  humble 
themselves  before  the  Lord,  and 
carry  this  message  to  the  world.  It 
is  through  their  humility,  their 
cleanliness  of  life,  their  honesty  of 
purpose,  that  mankind  are  attracted 
to  them,  and  listen  to  the  truth  they 
proclaim.  There  is  no  organization 
in  the  world  that  conducts  its  prose- 
lyting along  lines  like  these.  They 
would  be  afraid  to  send  their  young 
men  and  young  women  into  the 
world  as  we  do.  I  venture  to  say 
that  if  they  sent  such  missionaries 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
would  be  the  cause  of  their  return- 
ing home  with  their  religious  views 
largely  expanded,  at  least. 

This  work  is  growing.  We  can 
hardly  comprehend  its  magnitude. 
In  the  state  of  Idaho,  where  I  live, 
there  are  from  seventy  to  seventy- 
five  thousand  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
we  are  increasing.  The  influence  of 
the  Church  is  being  felt ;  it  is  ex- 
tending, results  are  beginning  to  be 
known  and  noticed,  and  we  are  glad 
to  say  that  we  see  and  realize  good 
coming  therefrom.  We  are  doing 
all  in  our  power  to  maintain  the 
good  influence  of  this  great  work 
that  has  been  entrusted  into  our  care 
in  the  state  of  Idaho.  We  are  pro- 
gressing. I  can  state  to  you  in  truth- 
fulness that  Idaho,  the  state  of  my 
adoption,  has  today  upon  its  statutes 
the  most  drastic,  honest,  clean-cut, 
effective  temperance  legislation  of 
any  state  in  this  nation.  I  want  to 
warn  those  who  do  not  live  within 
the  confines  of  that  state  that,  after 
the  fourth  of  next  May,  if  you  visit 
us  it  will  be  unlawful  for  you  to 
cross  the  line  into  Idaho  "with  any- 
thing in  the  way  of  intoxicants  in 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


55 


your  possession.  I  am  thankful  for 
this.  I  feel  that  we  have  now,  to  this 
extent  at  least,  been  enabled  to 
throw  safeguards  around  our  young 
people,  that  they  will  not  have  these 
temptations  to  intemperance  placed 
before  them,  and  we  will  be  enabled 
to  devote  our  attention  to  other  lines 
of  improvement.  We  have  ample 
opportunity  for  advancement  along 
other  lines,  but  this  is  a  good  start. 
I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  one  of  the  evils  we  should  rem- 
edy in  the  communities  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  well  as  elsewhere, 
is  the  vicious  forms  of  dancing.  The 
methods  and  styles  that  are  being 
adopted  in  that  line,  in  a  great  many 
instances,  are  abominable.  We  who 
hold  responsible  positions,  and  have 
received  the  priesthood  of  the  Mas- 
ter, should  exert  our  influence  and 
efforts  to  eradicate  this  evil.  We 
ought  to  be  as  energetic  in  driving 
all  evil  things  from  our  midst  as  the 
Savior  of  mankind  was  in  driving 
the  money  changers  out  of  the  tem- 
ple. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  be 
enabled  to  fulfill  our  obligations  in 
these  responsible  conditions,  and 
handle  the  problems  confronting  us 
honestly  and  conscientiously,  that 
good  may  result  from  our  efforts ; 
and  mav  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this 
end.  May  He  give  us  strength  to 
do  our  duty.  May  He  bless  us  with 
wisdom  and  understanding,  that  we 
will  be  enabled  to  see  and  compre- 
hend our  duties  and  thwart  the  en- 
emv  of  the  souls  of  our  people.  May 
His  testimony  be  with  us,  that  we 
mav  grow  in  faith,  that  we  may 
prosper  and  advance  spiritually. 
Mav  we  gain  for  ourselves  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son. 
and  thereby  secure  the  great  bless- 
ing of  eternal  life,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Gos- 
pel Restoration ;"  the  solo  part  was 
rendered  by  Sister  Nellie  Bennion. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President    of    Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

In  the  world,  where  we  mission- 
aries are  laboring,  it  becomes  neces- 
sary to  combat  a  false  and  erroneous 
impression  that  generally  prevails 
among  the  religious  denominations 
of  today,  that  by  mere  lip  service 
men  can  please  God,  and  that  by 
simply  giving  their  hand  to  the  min- 
ister who,  at  the  revival,  has  touch- 
ed their  hearts,  they  have  then  ob- 
tained religion  and  have  passed  to 
salvation ;  or,  by  simply  saying  that 
they  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
they  then  shall  be  saved  ;  or  who  are 
content  to  lull  themselves  into  a 
sense  of  supposed  security  by  re- 
peating the  words  of  the  scripture, 
that  "the  blood  of  Christ  cleanseth 
us  from  all  sin."  The  disposition 
and  feeling  is,  to  get  this  matter  of 
religion  over  and  through  with  in  as 
little  time  as  possible.  And  then  the 
religious  person  thinks  he  is  saved. 
I  remember  while  doing  missionary 
work  in  the  city  of  St.  Louis,  several 
years  ago,  reading  at  the  entrance 
of  a  tent  where  gospel  meetings 
were  held,  where  a  man  was  preach- 
ing healing  by  faith,  as  well  as  ex- 
pounding his  views  of  the  doctrines 
of  the  gospel — a  sign  which  ran: 
"Come  and  be  healed  and  saved  in 
15  minutes." 

There  are  many  in  the  world  who 
believe  they  can  be  saved  in  15  min- 
utes. They  remember  the  night  they- 
were  saved.  They  recall  distinctly- 
the  hour.  Thev  have  had  no  experi- 
ences beyond  that  time.  Sometimes 
I  have  attended  these  religious  re- 
vivals, when  the  minister  has  asked 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  were  present  who  were 
saved  to  stand  up,  and  I  have  never 
yet  thought  I  was  able  to  stand  up. 
I  remember  on  one  occasion,  as  was 
usual,  of  a  good  sister  coming  to 
those  who  were  sitting;  she  said  to 
me,  "Why,  brother,  are  you  not 
saved?"  "No."  said  I,  "I  am  not 
yet.  I  have  been  struggling  for  sal- 
vation, trying  to  obtain  it,  and  to 
teach  others  how  to  get  it,  for  many 
years.  I  do  not  know  what  I  will 
do  tomorrow,  however ;  I  may  lose 
it  all  then.  I  understand  that  'the 
race  is  not  to  the  swift  nor  the  battle 
to  the  strong,  but  he  that  endureth 
to  the  end  shall  be  saved.'  " 

I  have  thought,  as  we  have  rather 
criticized  the  narrow  view  that  some 
take  of  this  matter  of  salvation,  if 
we  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  more 
or  less  affected  by  the  same  feelings, 
that  we,  once  having  received  the 
gospel,  having  been  baptized,  count 
ourselves  in  fair  condition  for  sal- 
vation. I  discover  occasionally,  in 
the  mission  field,  those  who  are 
drifting,  claiming  they  are  members 
of  the  church.  They  can  remember 
that  one  time  they  were  baptized, 
though  sometimes  they  do  not  have 
the  record  of  it ;  but,  just  as  long  as 
they  have  been  baptized,  they  feel 
that  they  are  in  a  saved  condition. 
I  want  to  say  to  you.  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  not  perhaps  that  you 
need  it  quite  so  much  as  some  of 
us  out  in  the  mission  field,  and  yet 
1  cannot  hell)  feeling  that,  even  at 
home,  we  need  to  be  told  that  we 
must  do  more  than  repent  of  our' 
sins  and  be  baptized.  And  what  do 
we  mean  by  repenting  of  our  sins? 
We  mean  that  we  have  forsaken  the 
sins  we  have  been  guilty  of.  that 
we  do  not  sin  again,  that  when  we 
have  thus  repented,  if  we  have 
wronged  or  injured  a  man  or  wom- 
an, if  we  have  it  within  our  power 


to  repair  that  injury,  that  we  go  to 
them  and  repair  that  wrong  before 
our  baptism  will  be  approved  of  and 
fully  acceptable  before  the  Lord. 
As  we  have  told  those  who  repent 
in  the  world :  "Have  you  wronged 
a  man  or  woman,  from  which  wrong 
the  man  or  woman  is  now  suffering? 
If  so,  and  it  is  in  your  power  to  go 
to  that  man  or  woman  and  make  the 
wrong  right,  you  should  do  it.  I 
believe  that  is  the  thing  God  desires 
of  those  who  accept  baptism  at  His 
hands. 

I  had  an  experience  in  a  northern 
city,  a  few  weeks  ago,  where  two 
physicians  offered  themselves  for 
baptism,  a  man  and  a  woman — not 
related,  though  living  in  the  same 
town  and  following  the  same  pro- 
fession. I  concluded,  after  investi- 
gation, that  they  were  not  ready  for 
baptism  ;  so  I  asked  them  to  defer 
their  baptism.  T  felt  impressed,  as 
John  did,  when  he  said  :  "Who  hath 
warned  you  to  flee  from  the  wrath 
to  come?  Bring  forth  fruit  meet 
for  repentance."  That  was  my  spirit 
and  feeling  toward  them.  And  yet 
our  hearts  go  out  and  we  put  forth 
our  earnest  efforts  to  bring  men  into 
the  Church,  those  who  are  ready  and 
prepared.  In  this  case,  however,  T 
decided  to  seek  the  mind  and  will 
of  God.  Through  prayer  and  con- 
templation it  was  revealed  to  me 
that  thev  were  in  sin  and  transgres- 
sion. And  T  wrote  and  told  them 
what  their  sins  were,  and  told  them 
that  it  would  be  bringing  condemna- 
tion upon  their  own  souls  to  offer 
themselves  to  receive  the  holy  and 
sacred  ordinance  of  baptism  when 
yet  in  their  sins,  in  their  transgres- 
sion and  iniquity.  The  woman  is 
repenting,  but  the  man  is  filled  with 
ragr.  But  everv  word  that  T  wrote 
them  was  confirmed  by  voluntary 
testimony    from    those  informed 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


57 


about  these  people,  that  they  were 
guilty  of  wrong  doing,  and  were 
seeking  to  come  into  this  Church  to 
cover  up  their  crimes  and  shield 
them  from  exposure,  while  they  still 
continued  in  their  sins. 

We  are  not  seeking  for  men  to  be 
baptized  into  the  Church  unless  they 
have  truly  and  sincerely  repented ; 
and  when  they  have  thus  repented 
and  gone  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  have  covenanted  with  God  to 
serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, I  know  that  their  sins  are 
forgiven  them.  I  have  seen  those 
who  have  sinned  and  done  wrong,  in 
their  ignorance,  repent  before  God, 
and  receive  the  ordinance  of  bap- 
tism, and  have  their  whole  heart 
changed,  and  their  countenance  also 
become  like  that  of  a  child.  It  has 
been  a  matter  of  astonishment  to 
their  neighbors  and  relatives,  who 
would  say :  "What  has  happened  to 
Brother  So-and-So?  How  changed 
he  is !  What  transformation  has 
come  over  his  whole  life !"  So  I 
know  there  is  virtue  and  effect  and 
power  in  the  ordinance  of  baptism 
for  the  remission  of  sins.  But  we 
must  know,  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  we  should  not  stop  here ;  we 
have  only  put  on  the  armor,  only 
begun  the  battle  when  we  have  ac- 
cepted the  ordinance  of  baptism,  and 
had  hands  laid  upon  us  for  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  will  teach 
us  what  else  we  should  do.  And 
there  is  no  one  thing  that  we  can  do 
and  gain  salvation,  as  was  manifest 
in  the  answer  of  the  Christ  to  the 
voting  man  who  came  asking  the 
Master  what  thing  he  should  do  to 
inherit  eternal  life,  he  was  like  some 
of  us  who  feel  after  we  have  done 
one  or  two  things  our  salvation 
should  be  granted.  Not  one  but 
many  things  the  Master  required  of 
him,  he  answered,  "All  these  have 


I  kept  from  my  youth  up  ;  what  lack 
I  yet?"  Many  other  requirements 
were  made  of  him,  which  he  could 
not  meet  and  we  are  told  that  the 
young  man  went  away  sorrowing. 
Do  you  think  that  you  and  I  will 
have  our  anticipations  of  salvation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God  realized  on 
any  less  terms  than  were  offered  to 
this  young  man  ?  I  tell  you  nay.  I 
tell  you  that,  to  receive  the  ordi- 
nance of  baptism,  and  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  is  only  to  put  on  the  armor, 
just  to  equip  us  for  the  battle ;  and 
many  of  us  have  put  on  the  armor, 
and  it  is  rusty,  we  haven't  done  any- 
thing beyond  receiving  these  ordi- 
nances.. As  often  happens  with 
those  who  are  given  greater  light 
and  knowledge,  like  the  self-right- 
eous Pharisee ;  thank  God  they  are 
not  like  yonder  poor  sinner.  Some- 
times we  discover  that  those  who 
have  entered  into  a  covenant  to 
serve  God  do  not  live  any  better 
lives  as  Latter-day  Saints  than  they 
lived  as  Methodists  or  Baptists,  and 
this  will  stand  against  them  as  cove- 
nant breakers.  We  covenanted  and 
agreed  when  we  were  baptized  to 
obey  all  God's  laws,  and  keep  all  the 
requirements  that  He'  would  make 
known  unto  us  for  our  perfection 
and  salvation. 

Let  me  name  some  of  the  addi- 
tional requirements.  Peter  enumer- 
ated them  in  his  second  epistle,  and 
they  are  appropriate  for  Latter-day 
Saints  today.  I  don't  hope  to  paint 
any  new  picture  of  what  we  must 
do  to  be  saved,  but  just  brighten  the 
old  one,  or  make  it  a  little  more 
luminous.  I  think  these  conferences 
are  splendid  occasions  for  us  to 
sweep  the  cobwebs  off  from  our 
spiritual  vision,  and  think  upon  the 
things  that  we  agreed  in  our  hearts 
to  do  when  we  were    received  as 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


members  of  the  Church,  when  we 
covenanted  with  God  to  serve  Him, 
as  we  entered  into  the  waters  of 
baptism.  We  remember  the  price 
our  fathers  and  mothers  were  will- 
ing to  pay  for  salvation,  with  what  a 
spirit  of  determination  they  sacri- 
ficed, when  they  left  all  to  come  out 
of  the  world  to  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  crossing  the  plains  and 
blazing  the  way  to  provide  more 
favorable  opportunities  for  us  to  in- 
corporate into  our  lives  the  splendid 
things  necessary  to  prepare  us  to 
live  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God. 

Peter  said :  "And  beside  this 
[having  complied  with  the  first  prin- 
ciples,] giving  all  diligence,  add  to 
your  faith  virtue,  and  to  virtue 
knowledge."  What  is  the  standard 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  with  re- 
spect to  virtue  ?  You  brethren  and 
sisters  know.  You  young  men  and 
young  women  know,  who  have  been 
taught  and  reared  in  the  Church  ; 
we  have  learned  it  from  our  fatbers 
and  mothers,  that  it  would  be  better 
for  we  boys  and  girls  to  lose  our 
lives  than  to  lose  our  virtue,  that 
we  would  rather  die  than  to  be  de- 
spoiled, or  despoil  any  of  the  daugh- 
ters of  God.  This  is  the  standard 
that  has  been  fixed  for  us,  and  it  is 
not  a  double  standard :  the  boy  must 
live  just  as  pure  and  innocent  in  his 
life  as  the  girl  whom  he  would  ac- 
cept as  his  wife.  We  have  not  al- 
lowed one  standard  of  morality  for 
one  class,  or  one  sex,  and  another 
for  another.  There  are  those  in  the 
world,  and  I  think  some  of  them 
may  be  here,  who  seek  to  wrest  the 
scriptures,  and  seek  to  justify  them- 
selves in  departing  from  the  path 
of  rectitude  and  virtue.  Tt  is  some- 
what common  for  people  to  pretend 
to  think  that  the  old  law  has  passed 
away,  the  law  that  said,  though  shalt 
not  commit  adulterv.    But  the  es- 


sence of  the  law  has  not  passed 
away,  though  a  higher  one  has 
come.  Jesus  not  only  said,  "Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery,"  but  "He 
that  looketh  upon  a  woman  to  lust 
after  her  hath  already  committed 
adultery  in  his  heart." 

I  tell  you  there  is  a  terrible  wave 
of  immorality  sweeping  over  the 
world,  stalking  abroad  in  high 
places  and  in  low  places,  affecting 
not  only  the  single  but  the  married, 
not  only  the  married  men  but  the 
married  women.  I  wonder  if  Zion 
can  stand  unscathed  by  the  influence 
of  that  wave.  It  will  come,  if  it  has 
not  come  already  to  you,  and  you 
must  beware.  Do  not  take  too  much 
for  granted  from  your  sons  and 
daughters.  Do  not  mistrust  them, 
but  yet  live  so  close  to  them  that 
you  do  know  the  very  secret 
thoughts  of  their  hearts,  and  the 
trend  of  their  lives.  Hold  sacred 
the  duty  to  do  everything  you  can 
to  prevent  the  loss  of  human  souls, 
for  this  wave  will  sweep  before  it 
to  death  and  destruction  those  who 
do  not  hold  themselves  clean  and 
pure  in  thought,  in  their  hearts,  and 
in  their  lives. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  if  Zion  shall 
succeed  in  preserving  this  genera- 
tion from  the  damning  influences  of 
immorality  and  licentiousness,  the 
world  will  yet  say  of  the  member^ 
of  this  Church,  who  survive  the 
tremendous  influences  and  forces 
that  are  seeking  to  push  the  people 
of  the  whole  world  into  the  pitfalls 
of  sin,  greater  things  to  their  honor 
than  anything  they  have  yet  said 
about  our  fathers  who  founded  a 
commonwealth,  and  made  the  desert 
blossom  as  the  rose.  We  are  still 
in  the  struggle  to  establish  a  new 
order  of  things  in  the  world,  a  new 
race  of  men  ancf  women,  whose 
hearts  and  intents   are   clean  and 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


59 


pure.  We  are  here  to  fulfill  the 
words  of  one  who  said  that  we  must 
live  so  that  if  our -hearts  were  dis- 
closed,  turned  outside  in,  it  would 
not  show  a  single  stain  of  sin ;  that 
we  should  give  our  name  and  word 
to  no  document  or  agreement  that 
we  would  not  be  unwilling  for  the 
angels  to  attest  as  witnesses ;  that 
we  should  walk,  unseduced,  through 
life,  within  arm's  length  of  that 
which  is  not  ours,  and  nothing  be- 
tween us  and  the  gratification  of  our 
desires,  but  the  indomitable  law  of 
rectitude,  and  stand  forth  in  the 
world  as  pure  and  clean  as  if  we 
were  in  the  presence  of  God  Him- 
self. This  is  what  we  should  strive 
for,  and  it  is  the  standard  of  virtue 
that  we  must  attain.  I  must  tell  you 
that  the  men  or  women  who  think 
they  can  go  into  the  sacred  temples, 
and  receive  the  blessings  there  to  be 
obtained,  can  commit  sins  of  this 
character,  and  escape  the  conse- 
quences will  come  up  missing  when 
they  meet  the  examination  that  men 
and  women  will  have  to  pass  before 
entering  into  the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en, for  no  unclean  thing  can  go 
there.  And  so  we  have  to  struggle 
with  this  power  that  is  aimed  at 
frail  humanity. 

And  then  we  are  to  "add  to  our 
virtue  knowledge."  You  know  we 
believe  in  knowledge.  "The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence"  was  one  of 
the  favorite  sayings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith ;  and  we  believe  in 
study,  we  believe  in  learning.  We 
are  not  afraid  to  investigate  any- 
thing ;  but  I  believe  that  every  boy 
and  girl,  before  they  go  away  from 
home  to  school,  and  especially  be- 
fore they  go  out  of  our  own  circles 
into  the  world  elsewhere,  should 
gain  for  themselves  an  undying  tes- 
timony that  God  lives,  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  that  the  gospel 


is  indeed  the  very  truth  of  God. 
Men  must  have  a  true  measuring 
rod  to  determine  whether  knowl- 
edge which  comes  to  them  is  true 
or  false.  They  must  have  a  true 
balance  or  rule  that  is  always  re- 
liable, always  dependable,  by  which 
they  can  weigh  or  measure  every 
particle  of  information  that  comes 
to  them.  What  will  this  rule  be? 
I  have  discovered  that  the  sure  ac- 
tion of  my  soul  is  the  knowledge  I 
have  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  our  Father  in  heav- 
en has  spoken,  that  those  truths  con- 
tained in  the  revelations  of  God  in 
the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  are  the 
very  eternal  truth.  I  have  accepted 
them  as  my  measuring  rod,  and  I 
have  not  accepted  as  the  final  truth 
anything  that  does  not  square  up  to 
those  eternal  truths,  that  does  not 
harmonize  with  the  truth  I  have 
from  God.  Truth  will  harmonize 
with  itself.  Let  us  adopt  this  stand- 
ard when  we  go  out  into  the  world, 
and  seek  the  world's  knowledge,  its 
science,  and  everything  pertaining 
to  the  world  and  the  world's  work, 
and  we  shall  be  saved  from  ship- 
wreck. 

We  have  heard  from  our  child- 
hood that  the  day  would  come  when 
the  Latter-day  Saints  would  be  the 
leaders  of  the  world.  I  proclaim 
to  you  that  within  one  hundred 
years,  and  perhaps  before  that  time, 
the  men  who  will  be  standing  in  the 
very  vanguard  in  directing  and 
piloting  the  world's  thought,  knowl- 
edge and  power,  shall  come  from 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Any  people 
who  are  possessed  of  the  truth  w< 
have,  who  will  live  up  to  the  doc- 
trines we  have  received,  will  come 
to  be  the  light  of  the  world,  I  don't 
care  who  they  are,  they  will  come 
to  the  top  just  as  sure  as  the  sun 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


shines.  So  we  are  not  afraid  of 
true  knowledge. 

And  we  are  to  "add  to  our  knowl- 
edge temperance."  I  thank  God  that 
Idaho  where  so  many  of  us  live  can 
say,  as  Brother  Hart  has  just  ad- 
vised us,  has  taken  a  great  step  in 
adopting  prohibition  towards  an  end 
so  dear  to  the  heart  of  every  Latter- 
day  Saint.  We  have  received  in  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  the  higher  law  of 
temperance,  and  it  is  after  all  the 
thing  that  is  necessary  to  be  secured, 
to  eradicate  out  of  the  hearts  of 
men  the  spirit  and  disposition  to 
drink  intoxicating  liquors.  We  be- 
lieve that  it  is  necessary  for  man- 
kind not  only  to  abolish  the  saloon, 
but  we  should  abolish  the  very  de- 
sire for  it,  we  should  spurn  the  de- 
sire for  strong  drink,  crush  it  out 
and  destroy  it,  that  it  may  not  con- 
taminate our  souls,  that  we  transmit 
to  our  posterity  no  longing  for  that 
which  will  defile  their  bodies.  What 
a  shame  that  some  of  us  do  not  ap- 
preciate the  blessed  heritage  we 
have  received  from  our  fathers  and 
mothers,  who  a  generation  Or  two 
ago,  left  these  things  in  the  old 
world,  and  banished  them  from 
their  lives.  We  know  that  the  eye 
of  the  world  is  turned  on  Utah,  and 
the  "Mormons."  We  have  told 
them  of  our  high  standard  of  tem- 
perance, and  that  we  believe  in  pro- 
hibition. Many  of  them  have  been 
watching  us.  We  have  told  them 
we  would  be  true  to  the  cause  and 
destroy  the  whole  damnable  evil.  1 
can't  tell  you  how  our  hearts  sank, 
and  how  we  were  shocked  to  know 
that  when,  apparently,  we  had  it 
within  our  grasp  to  clear  the  balance 
of  our  state,  the  opportunity  has 
slipped.  I  hope  you  will  not  aban- 
don the  cause,  that  you  will  espouse 
it  so  loyally  that  you  will  get  it  next 
time,  and  make  it  just  as  strong  as 


Idaho  has.  In  the  meantime,  we 
stand  for  temperance  in  all  things. 

This  is  the  time  for  men  to  repent. 
You  will  discover  that  there  are  ap- 
petites and  desires  to  conquer,  and 
this  life  is  the  molding  time ;  this  is 
the  plastic  age,  and  the  material  well- 
tempered ;  and  when  fashioned  we 
become  brittle  and  hard.  It  will  be 
difficult  for  us  to  change  the  old 
vessel  when  it  is  once  moulded.  Let 
us  see  to  it,  while  the  material  is 
pliable,  we  incorporate  into  our  lives 
those  precious  truths  that  our  bodies 
may  be  beautiful  to  look  upon,  and 
we  will  love  them,  that  we  will  de- 
sire to  receive  them  again,  and  that 
they  will  not  be  to  us  a  hideous 
monument,  but  full  of  all  goodness 
and  beauty. 

We  are  to  "add  to  our  temperance 
patience."  ,  Do  you  think  that  one 
though  he  has  lived  up  to  all  these 
other  requirements  of  the  gospel, 
but.  when  mad  rage  strikes  him, 
yields  to  the  wiles  of  the  evil  one, — 
is  a  fit  subject  for  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God?  Do  you  suppose  our 
Father  in  heaven  will  allow  a  scene 
like  that  in  His  presence?  I  tell  you 
such  a  one  will  go  outside,  and  stay 
there  until  he  has  acquired  control 
of  his  temper,  until  he  has  mastered 
his  viciousness.  We  must  have  pa- 
tience with  ourselves  and  patience 
with  others,  and  not  try  to  make 
everybody  else  measure  up  with  our 
standard.  We  will  discover  there 
are  those  who  will  set  us  an  example 
in  some  things,  while  we  can  set 
them  an  example  in  others. 

"Add  to  your  patience  godliness." 
Godliness,  we  know,  is  cleanliness 
and  purity,  not  only  outside  but  in- 
side. 

"Add  to  godliness  brotherly  kind- 
ness and  charity."  If  you  want  to 
know  what  true  charity  is,  read 
what  Paul  says,  "Charity  vaunteth 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


61 


not  itself,"  "desireth  no  evil,''  and 
so  forth. 

O,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there 
is  work  yet  for  me  and  for  yon  to 
do.  I  do  not  want  to  make  it  appear 
that  it  is  not  possible  to  accomplish 
all  this.  It  is,  and  I  want  yon  to 
understand  that  not  one  single  re- 
quirement that  has  been  made  is 
non-essential.  The  men  or  women 
who'  become  candidates  for  celestial 
glory  must  come  np  to  these  re- 
quirements, or  they  will  not  get  in. 
James  said,  "He  that  keepeth  the 
whole  law,  and  yet  offendeth  in  one 
thing  is  guilty  of  breaking  all." 
What  did  he  mean?  He  did  not 
mean  that  the  man  who  broke  only 
one  commandment  was  in  the  same 
condition  as  the  one  who  did  not 
keep  any,  but  that  when  he  had  kept 
all  except  one  he  was  not  able  to 
attain  celestial  glory  until  he  kept 
the  other  requirement.  For  instance, 
it  is  necessary  that  specific  things  be 
compiled  with  in  order  to  produce 
electricity,  and  if  we  neglect  one 
particular  item,  do  you  sunpose  we 
will  o-et  electricity?  No.  We  are  as 
though  Ave  had  not  done  anything 
so  far  as  final  results  Right]  is  con- 
cerned ;  although  we  had  done  nine 
things  required,  and  yet  lack  one. 
So  I  say  to  you  that  not  one  of  the 
gospel  requirements  is  non-essential. 
Thev  are  not  given  out  of  caprice 
of  the  mind  of  Jesus,  they  are  eter- 
nal truths,  just  as  eternal  as  the 
heavens  are  eternal,  and  as  the  law 
of  gravitation  is  eternal ;  we  must 
observe  them  if  we  will  gain  celes- 
tial glory. 

Confucius  said  that  those  who 
know  the  truth  are  not  as  great  as 
those  who  love  it.  I  would  like  to 
paraphrase  his  words,  and  say  that 
those  who  know  the  truth  as  we  do 
are  not  as  great  as  those  of  us  who 
love  it  and  obey  it,  for  "he  that 


knoweth  the  Master's  will  and  doeth 
it  not  shall  be  beaten  with  many 
stripes."  I  do  not  want  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  lose  their  op- 
portunity. Shame  upon  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  if  it  can  be  said,  truth- 
fully, that  in  the  Christian  Scientist 
church  a  more  beautiful  spirit  pre- 
vails than  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  While  I  recognize  that  the 
Christian  Scientists  make  a  hobby 
of  this  doctrine  of  brotherly  love,  it 
cannot  and  should  not  be  said  that 
there  exists  more  brotherly  love  in 
that  church  than  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Suppose  the  Seventh 
Day  Adventists,  who  have  copied 
from  us  the  doctrines  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  should  set  us  an  exam- 
ple in  the  matter  of  abstaining  from 
intoxicating  liquors,  tea.  coffee  and 
tobacco,  shall  we  who  have  received 
these  laws  from  the  Almighty,  long 
before  our  advent  friends  adopted 
them,  submit  to  being  outdone  in  the 
matter?  If  the  doctrine  of  tithing 
is  adopted  by  other  churches,  shame 
upon  us,  who  have  received  the 
word  of  God  upon  this  matter,  and 
know  it  to  be  divine,  if  we  shall 
allow  them  to  outdo  us.  We  shall 
have  to  live  the  Law  of  Enoch  be- 
fore we  get  into  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God.  You  know,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  stated  that  the  law 
of  tithing  was  a  school  master  to 
bring  us  to  live  that  higher  law.  I 
am  sorry  that  many  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  not  come  up  to  the 
requirements  of  the  school  master. 
How  shall  we  attain  salvation  ex- 
cept we  can  be  honest  It  is  just  as 
necessary  that  a  man  shall  be  abso- 
lutely honest  as  it  is  that  he  shall  be 
baptized,  to  obtain  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are 
here  reaping  the  reward  of  our 
former  labors,  and  we  are  going 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hereafter  to  reap  the  consequences 
of  our  lives  and  works  here.  We 
know,  from  the  doctrines  that  we 
have  received,  that  men  and  women 
have  existed  before  coming  into  this 
life,  for  countless  ages,  and  that  we 
have  been  developing  certain  qual- 
ities, and  the  reason  we  are  separ- 
ated into  great  classes,  as  the  Negro 
race  and  the  other  races  on  the 
earth,  is  not  a  matter  of  caprice. 
God  did  not  take  three  beautiful 
children  yesterday  morning,  and  say 
to  one,  You  go  to  the  Negro  wo- 
man, and  to  another  one,  You  go  to 
that  Chinese  mother,  and  to  another, 
You  go  down  to  that  beautiful 
Christian  home.  In  my  opinion, 
there  were  classes  and  races,  and 
separation  into  different  groups  and 
conditions  before  we  came  to  this 
world,  and  all  are  getting  what  they 
are  entitled  to  receive  here.  But 
tin's  is  as  far  as  we  will  travel  to- 
gether, for  after  this  life,  some  will 
get  a  celestial  glory,  and  some  a 
terrestrial  glory,  and  some  a  telestial, 
and  we  will  no  longer  journey  in  a 
great  class,  or  in  a  great  company, 
made  up  of  all  classes.  I  believe 
that,  while  there  will  be  classes  in 
the  spheres  to  which  we  will  belong, 
we  shall  be  grouped  on  separate 
planets.  If  we  comply  with  all  re- 
quirements we  will  be  prepared  to 
go  into  the  highest  places  for  fur- 
ther advancement,  and  that  is 
celestial  glory,  and  it  is  gained  by 
obedience  to  celestial  law.  The 
celestial  abode  will  be  upon  this 
redeemed  earth,  for  God  has  de- 
clared that  it  will  fulfill  the  purpose 
for  which  He  has  created  it,  and 
it  will  no  longer  need  to  have  the 
light  of  the  sun  by  day  nor  moon 
and  stars  by  night,  but  will  have 
power  to  emit  its  own  light.  Tt  shall 
be  the  home  of  those  who  overcome, 
and  who  have  kept  the  law.  and 


who  have  measured  up  to  all  the 
requirements. 

Thank  God,  there  is  a  chance  for 
those  who  struggle  and  do  the  best 
they  can ;  we  come  up  and  offer 
ourselves  as  candidates  for  admit- 
tance, and  are  found  wanting,  in  a 
few  things,  there  is  a  chance  to 
become  perfect.  I  tell  you,  we  will 
have  to  examine  ourselves,  and  we 
will  be  examined,  and  see  if  we  are 
fit,  and  many  will  be  turned  back 
again  and  again  until  they  do  be- 
come perfect  in  all  that  God  has  re- 
quired. Some  of  us  may  fail  en- 
tirely, and  will  lift  up  our  eyes  in 
sorrow,  in  the  terrestrial  or  telestial 
w  orld,  beholding  the  celestial  world 
and  not  able  to  enter  it.  Where 
will  these  be?  I  think,  perhaps  on 
Jupiter,  or  some  other  planet,  when 
this  glorious  orb  shall  shine  as  a 
resplendent  sun.  It  may  be  that 
they  will  look  up  and  say,  Yes,  I 
was  born  in  that  place ;  it  was  my 
privilege  to  stay  there,  but  I  have 
lost  it.  We  will  know  then  the  full 
meaning  of  those  words  : 

"Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 
The  saddest  are  these,  It  might  have 
•been." 

"I  might  have  been  there,  and  I 
am  not !"  O,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, let  us  struggle  that  we  may  at- 
tain the  celestial  glory.  But,  we 
cannot  get  there  by  lip  service.  It 
is  a  life's  business,  and  then  a  con- 
tinuation of  effort,  and  a  continu- 
ation of  struggle.  But,  O,  it  is 
worth  it.  It  is  worth  ten  thousand 
times  more  than  has  been  required ; 
and  we  would  never  cease  our  ef- 
fort, if*  we  once  had  the  taste  of 
that  joy  that  belongs  to  those  who 
come  into  the  presence  of  God.  I 
am  willing  to  give  my  all  of  means, 
heart,  mind,  and  sacrifice  to  attain 
it. 


ELDER  RICHARD  W .  YOUNG. 


63 


We  teach  the  doctrine  that  "as 
God  is  man  may  become."  Not  that 
all  men  will  become  what  He  is,  but 
may  become;  how  may  we?  By 
obedience  to  these  requirements. 
While  men  will  grow  in  the  telestial 
and  terrestrial  kingdoms,  they  never 
can  attain  the  perfection,  felicity, 
and  development  of  those  who  en- 
joy the  celestial  glory.  If  we  get 
into  that  glorious  place,  we  have  got 
to  walk  in  the  light  as  He  is  in  the 
light.  And  after  all  we  have  done, 
it  will  still  be  by  the  grace  of  God 
that  we  enter,  and  we  will  then  cry 
unto  Him,  and  blessed  are  we,  if 
His  answer  is,  "Thou  hast  been 
faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will 
make  thee  ruler  over  many."  If  He 
will  only  name  my  poor  name,  and 
say.  "Of  me  thou  hast  not  been 
ashamed,  come  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord,"  I  shall  have  my  heart  satis- 
fied, and  feel  repaid  ten  thousand 
times  for  all  God  has  asked  me  to 
do. 

God  give  us  the  strength  to  be 
more  faithful  six  months  from  to- 
day than  we  are  now,  and  to  ac- 
complish those  things  that  He  has 
required.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG. 

(President  of  Ensign  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  should 
esteem  myself  and  yourselves,  my 
audience,  very  happy  indeed  if  I 
might  be  able  to  address  you  under 
the  impulse  of  that  same  power  and 
spirit,  and  intelligence  that  so  far 
has  controlled  and  dominated  this 
meeting.  It  is  always  a  great  pleas- 
ure to  me,  and  no  doubt  to  you  and 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  whole,,  to 
have  the  privilege  of  attending  these 
our  annual  and  semi-annual  confer- 
ences of  the  Church.   In  these  great 


assemblies  are  we  permitted  to  listen 
to  the  testimonies  and  receive  the 
benefit  of  the  instructions,  and  to  be 
roused  by  the  enthusiasm  of  the 
brethren  who  so  ably,  and  by  ap- 
pointment, preside  over  the  destinies 
of  this  the  Church  of  God.  And  not 
only  is  this  privilege  accorded  us ; 
but  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  we 
come  together  in  great  numbers, 
fired  with  the  same  desires,  enter- 
taining the  same  belief,  we  receive  a 
renewed  enthusiasm  and  power, 
spirit  and  determination  with  refer- 
ence to  the  gospel  and  our  participa- 
tion in  the  labors  pertaining  there- 
unto. 

It  is  always  a  great  pleasure  to  us, 
(I  undertake  to  say  behind  the  back 
of  President  Smith  that  which  I 
would  not  say  before  his  face) — it  is 
always  a  great  pleasure  to  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  have  the  privilege  of 
listening  to  our  matchless  leader. 
We  are  great  admirers,  we  who 
know  President  Smith,  of  his  splen- 
did intellect.  We  have  sat  many 
times  under  the  potent  influence  of 
his  oratory, — potent,  in  my  humble 
judgment,  by  reason  of  his  sincerity, 
by  reason  of  his  knowledge,  by  rea- 
son of  his  uncompromising  faith,  by 
reason  of  his  mastery  of  the  English 
language,  by  reason  of  his  versa- 
tility of  thought  and  idea.  We  have 
all  listened  time  and  again  with  the 
most  unspeakable  pleasure  and  the 
most  immeasurable  advantage  and 
benefit  to  his  sermons.  This  is  one 
of  the  great  privileges  accorded  us 
in  attending  these  conferences.  Not 
least  among  the  privileges  that  we 
have  on  these  occasions  is  listening 
to  the  powerful  testimonies  of  the 
brethren  who  preside  in  the  missions 
of  the  Church.  They  are  filled  with 
enthusiasm.  Their  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel  has  been  kept  bright  by 
exercise.    Their  armor  is  not  rusty. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  all  learn  from  them  and  from 
the  power  and  influence  that  accom- 
panies their  speaking"  of  the  great 
advantage  that  there  is  and  would 
be  to  us  to  labor  constantly  in  the 
work  of  God.  If  we  would  have  that 
spirit  which  they  enjoy,  the  spirit 
which  we  had  when  we  labored  as 
missionaries  in  the  field,  it  is  only 
necessary  that  we,  like  them,  should 
devote  our  whole  time  and  attention 
to  the  Gospel.  Of  course  this  is  not 
possible  to  the  great  majority  of  us. 
But  still  we  may  conclude  that  we 
would  receive  a  great  accession  of 
faith  and  of  power  by  increasing  our 
attention,  and  by  multiplying  our 
labors  in  the  great  cause  of  truth 
and  righteousness. 

It  is  my  design  to  address  you 
only  for  a  very  few  minutes.  Time 
would  not  permit  that  I  should  speak 
longer.  I  find  my  text  in  the  words, 
or  the  idea  at  least  (I  cannot  recall 
the  precise  words)  of  President 
Smith  in  his  opening  address  this 
morning.  The  Latter-day  Saints, 
he  said,  are  a  charitable  people,  filled 
with  the  fie  si  re  to  benefit  and  to  save 
the  world,  and  not  to  do  the  world 
injury.  That  is  truly  a  characteristic 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  We  could  not  claim  that  this 
is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  if  it 
were  not  a  gospel  filled  with  love 
and  characterized  by  charity.  If 
ours  were  a  doctrine  of  hatred,  if 
ours  were  a  doctrine  inculcating  the 
spirit  of  persecution,  then  we  would 
not  be  walking  in  tne  footsteps  of 
our  great  and  illustrious  Exemplar, 
the  Son  of  Man.  We  thank  God 
that  the  history  of  the  Church,  the 
history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  is 
not  marred  by  any  sentiment  or  by 
any  act  of  oppression.  Thank  God 
that  throughout  the  history  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  there  has  been 
evidenced  a  love  of  mankind,  a  de- 


sire to  bless  and  to  benefit  and  to 
save,  rather  than  a  disposition  to 
oppress  and  to  constrain  those  who 
are  not  of  our  faith.  Oppression 
would  be  entirely  inconsistent  with 
our  views  respecting  God,  our  rela- 
tion to  God  and  our  relations  to  each 
other.  We  could  not  believe  as  we 
do,  that  in  the  beginning  we  existed 
with  God ;  that  we  are  in  very  fact 
the  children  of  God ;  that  we  are 
literally  brothers  and  sisters ;  that 
we  will  be  saved,  all  of  us,  according 
to  our  faith  and  to  our  works.  We 
could  not  believe,  as  has  been  point- 
ed out,  that  those  of  us  who  might 
fall  by  the  wayside,  or  falter  in  this 
world,  will  have  an  opportunity  in 
the  next  world  of  accepting  the 
truth,  and  of  advancing  on  to  salva- 
tion. We  could  not  believe  that 
every  soul  that  has  been  born  into 
the  world  may  become  eventually, 
through  endeavor  and  the  things  ac- 
complished, divine  in  his  power  and 
attributes, — I  say  we  could  not  be- 
lieve all  these  glorious  and  humane 
truths,  and  then  persecute  and  de- 
spitefully  use  our  fellow  creatures  in 
this  world.  It  would  be  absolutely 
inconsistent  in  us  to  oppress  those 
who  fail  to  believe  as  we  believe. 
They  have  within  them,  as  we  have, 
not  only  a  divine  origin  but  the. 
spark  of  divine  potentialities. 

Thank  God,  we  do  not  share  the 
conception  that  has  marked  the  ages 
of  the  past,  and  to  a  large  extent 
reaches  down  to  the  present  day, 
notwithstanding  the  evolution  of  re- 
ligious belief  in  the  past  100  years, 
that  a  large  part  of  these  sons  and 
daughters  of  God  have  been  fore- 
ordained to  eternal  destruction  and 
damnation.  I  can  well  understand 
why  those  who  entertain  such  per- 
verted ideas  of  religion,  who  assert 
that  we  are  foreordained,  do  what 
we  may,  to  encounter  the  condemna- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  SMITH,  JR. 


65 


tion  of  God  and  to  suffer  irretriev- 
ably throughout  eternity,  would  be 
inclined  to  judge  us  without  charity 
or  consideration.  It  would  seem  to 
be  quite  natural  for  such  believers 
to  exclaim:  "Inasmuch  as  God  has 
foreordained  the  condemnation  of 
this  people,  well  then  let  them  be 
damned."  I  say,  thank  God  that 
such  charity  destroying  views  and 
delusive  doctrines  have  no  part  in 
the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Looking  upon  all  mankind,  those 
not  of  our  faith  as  well  as  those  that 
have  come  within  the  fold,  as  being 
of  the  same  fatherhood,  as  brothers 
and  sisters,  with  the  prospect  of  sal- 
vation ahead  of  them,  we  would  be 
sadly  illogical  if  we  were  not  filled 
with  love  and  with  charity,  and  a 
desire  to  help. 

And  so,  throughout  the  history  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have  not 
been  the  persecutors  ;  but  rather  the 
persecuted.  We  have  not  been  the 
oppressors ;  we  have  been  the  op- 
pressed. We  have  not  been  the 
libellers  and  the  slanderers  of  our 
fellow  men ;  we  have  suffered  from 
those  offenses.  As  it  was  in  New 
York,  so  it  was  in  Kirtland, — we 
were  the  persecuted.  When  we  went 
into  Missouri,  where  thousands  of 
our  members,  owners  of  the  soil, 
were  dispossessed  of  their  property, 
it  was  the  same ;  and  so  when  we 
were  driven  out  of  Nauvoo  without 
offense  upon  our  part.  In  this  state, 
you  may  search  the  statutes  from 
the  time  the  state  of  Deseret  was 
organized,  before  the  creation  of  the 
Territory,  and  you  will  search  in 
vain  for  one  statute  that  ever  dis- 
criminated in  the  least  degree 
ag'ainst  those  who  were  not  of  the 
faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
who  have  lived  in  this  state  have 
seen  men  who  have  slandered  the 
leaders  of  this  people,  who  have  said 


and  printed  of  them  the  most  de- 
spicable things,  who  have  accused 
them  of  unchastity,  of  dishonesty 
and  of  all  of  the  crimes  in  the  cata- 
logue, we  have  seen  those  men  live 
in  peace  in  our  midst  and  walk  these 
streets  absolutely  without  harm  or 
molestation.  And  you  know  who 
have  come  from  the  west  and  the 
north,  and  from  the  east  and  the 
south,  wherever  our  people  have 
ever  lived,  that  those  who  have 
charged  these  things  against  us  and 
have  done  all  manner  of  things  to 
destroy  us,  you  know  that  we  have 
treated  them  charitably,  that  we 
have  not  sought  to  return  evil  for 
evil,  but  rather,  following  the  ex- 
ample of  Christ,  that  we  have  sought 
to  return  good  for  evil.  I  say  I 
thank  God  that  we  are  a  charitable 
people.  I  thank  God  that  we  soon 
forget  the  offenses  of  people  against 
us.  We  have  elevated  into  the  high- 
est political  positions  in  this  state 
men  who  in  other  days  have  been 
among  the  most  uncompromising  of 
our  opponents.  In  the  charity  of 
our  hearts,  we  have  forgotten  all 
that  they  have  done  in  the  past. 
Thank  God  that  we  do  not  desire  to 
injure  others,  but  rather  to  bless 
them. 

Now  may  God  help  us  so  to  live 
that  as  a  community  and  as  individ- 
uals we  may  grow  in  grace  and  in 
the  things  of  God,  and  be  finally  not 
only  saved  but  exalted  in  His  pres- 
ence ;  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

Ashamed  that  Utah  is  not  yet  a  prohi- 
bition State — Church  authorities  advo- 
cate temperance,  and  desire  prohibi- 
tion. 

The  time  is  spent.  It  is  not  my 
purpose  to  detain  you ;  but  I  desire 


65 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  say,  in  conclusion  of  these  ser- 
vices," that  I  endorse  the  remarks 
that  have  been  made  here  by  our 
brethren,  and  trust  that  they  will 
find  an  abiding  place  in  the  hearts 
of  those  assembled  here.  And  I 
wish  to  say  to  Brother  John  W. 
Hart,  that  while  I  am  very  much 
chagrined,  humiliated  and  ashamed 
of  the  condition  that  prevails  in  the 
State  of  Utah,  not  because  the  peo- 
ple so  willed  it,  I  am  proud  to  know 
that  the  State  of  Idaho  and  the  State 
of  Colorado  and  the  State  of  Ari- 
zona, and  the  States  of  Washington 
and  Oregon,  in  this  Rocky  Moun- 
tain region  and  the  Pacific  Coast 
have  set  an  example  that  is  worth}' 
to  be  followed.  And  just  one  more 
word.  The  remark  has  been  made 
that  whispering  is  being  indulged 
in  to  some  extent  by  some  of  the 
people  to  the  effect,  that  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  want 
prohibition,  and  I  think  I  am  in  a 
position  to  say,  that  the  authorities 
of  the  Church,  the  Presidency,  and 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  stand  for 
temperance,  and  they  do  want  such 
prohibition.  Those  who  declare  to 
the  contrary,  when  they  come  to 
you,  tell  them  that  they  speak  that 
which  is  not  true.  And  I  think  I 
know  what  I  am  talking  about. 

I  do  not  wish  to  make  any  more 
remarks  because  the  time  is  spent. 

A  selection,  entitled,  "A  Perfect 
Day,"'  was  sung  by  a  male  chorus. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem, 
''Grant  us  Peace,"  Ada  Russell  and 
Manasseh  Smith  rendering  the 
duet.  ' 

Elder  W.  D.  Kuhre  pronounced 
the  benediction. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

A  meeting  was  held  in  front  of 
the  Bureau  of  Information,  at  2 
p.  m.  Elder  George  F.  Richards 
presided,  and  the  17th  Ward  choir, 
conducted  by  James  H.  Neilson,  fur- 
nished the  music. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "How  firm  a  founda- 
tion," etc. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Jesus, 
I  my  cross  have  taken,"  Bessie  S. 
Rex  rendered  the  solo  part. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 

Faith  of  Saints  manifest  by  very  large 
attendance  at  Conference — Vital  im- 
portance of  religion — Compliance  with 
Gospel  ordinances  repugnant  to  the 
worldly — All  the  truth  of  all  religions 
embraced  in  "Mormonism" —  God's 
mercy  and  justice  evidenced  in  plan  of 
salvation  for  the  dead. 

My  dear  brethren,  sisters,  and 
friends, — we  regret  exceedingly  that 
we  have  not  a  building  sufficiently 
large  to  house  all  of  the  people  who 
•have  come  up  to  this  Temple  Block 
today  to  worship  the  Lord,  and  that 
so  many  have  to  stand  during  our 
service.  I  do  believe,  though,  if  we 
will  try  and  concentrate  our  minds 
upon  the  things  of  God  and  His 
kingdom,  having  a  desire  to  worship 
Him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  that  we 
will  be  able  to  stand  the  fatigue ; 
and,  through  our  faith,  receive  from 
the  Lord  that  which  will  encourage 
and  comfort  us,  and  build  us  up  in 
our  faith. 

The  large  Tabernacle  is  filled  to 
overflowing ;  perhaps  ten  thousand 
people  are  assembled  there.  The 
Assembly  Hall  is  filled  to  overflow- 
ing ;  perhaps  between  two  and  three 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


67 


thousand  people  there,  and,  as  you 
can  see,  a  large  concourse  of  people 
here.  It  all  reflects  credit  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  interest  on 
their  part  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
Those  who  had  the  privilege  of  at- 
tending the  opening  session  of'  our 
conference  this  morning,  held  in  the 
large  Tabernacle,  and  heard  what 
President'  Joseph  F.  Smith  had  to 
impart  by  way  of  instruction,  and 
report  of  conditions,  will  surely  have 
no  doubt  in  their  minds  as  to  the  de- 
velopment of  this  great  work,  its 
growth  and  progress  in  the  earth. 

I  have  great  joy  and  satisfaction, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  re- 
ligion, my  membership  in  this  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  having  the  assurance 
that  this  work  is  the  work  of  God, 
the  power  of  God  unto  happiness 
and  joy  in  this  life,  salvation  and 
eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 
The  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel,  which  we  have  embraced  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  are  amply  sus- 
tained by  the  scriptures.  Those  who 
have  made  an  investigation,  un- 
biased and  thorough,  will  be  con- 
vinced of  this  fact. 

There  is  a  great  satisfaction  in  be- 
ing right.  There  is  great  disap- 
pointment in  having  been  wrong 
upon  any  question ;  and  the  more 
important  the  question,  the  greater 
the  satisfaction  or  the  disappoint- 
ment, as  the  case  may  be.  There  is, 
my  friends,  no  question  of  greater 
moment  to  the  children  of  men  than 
religion,  the  plan  which  God  has  in- 
stituted for  the  salvation  of  His  chil- 
dren. I  am  thoroughly  convinced 
that  the  time  will  come  when  all  the 
problems  of  religion  will  be  unrav- 
eled, and  when  that  day  comes, 
great  will  be  the  comfort  of  those 
who  have  been  right,  and  great  in- 
deed will  be  the    discomfiture  of 


those  who  have  been  wrong  upon 
this  important  question. 

When  God  placed  man  upon  the 
earth  and  shut  him  out  from  His 
presence,  and  required  him  to  live 
by  faith,  He  did  not  leave  him  with- 
out evidences  of  the  existence,  the 
power,  and  the  love  of  God.  Those 
evidences  are  so  many,  and  so  potent 
that  those  who>  reject  God  and  His 
existence  are  excluded  from  those 
who  will  receive  salvation  in  His 
kingdom.  "He  that  cometh  to  God 
must  believe  that  He  is"  (Heb. 
11:6). 

There  is  a  class  of  people  in  the 
world,  and  they  are  very  numerous, 
who  are  willing  to  accept  God  ac- 
cording to  their  own  conception  of 
Him,  His  existence,  and  of  the  im- 
mortality of  the  soul  of  man,  who 
are  not  willing  to  accept  of  certain 
principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel  necessary  for  their  salvation, 
such  as  repentance  from  sin,  the  ne- 
cessity for  it  as  a  condition  of  salva- 
tion, baptism  by  immersion  in  water 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost — these  and  other  ordinances, 
and  the  necessity  for  their  being  ad- 
ministered by  one  whose  authority 
God  recognizes.  When  the  time 
comes  when  all  things  will  be  under- 
stood, if  it  shall  prove  true  as  the 
scriptures  teach  and  as  we  believe, 
that  these  principles  and  ordinances, 
as  well  as  faith  in  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  are  necessary  to  salvation, 
how  much  better  off  will  we  be  who 
have  accepted  these  great  truths 
than  those  who  have  rejected  them ; 
and  if  it  were  possible  to  be  other- 
wise than  true,  would  we  not  still 
be  as  well  off  as  they,  and  if  true  we 
would  be  infinitely  better  off,  we 
would  have  the  satisfaction  of  hav- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  been  right  upon  this  great  ques- 
tion. 

At  any  rate,  we,  as  Latter-day 
Saints  are  on  the  sure  side,  as  we 
have  all  that  others  accept  of  truth 
and  many  more  truths,  principles, 
and  ordinances  than  they  have.  In- 
deed, this  work  which  we  have  es- 
poused, commonly  known  as  "Mor- 
monism,"  embraces  all  truth  and  all 
good.  There  is  no  truth  or  good 
that  is  not  included  in  our  religion, 
and  there  is  nothing  but  truth  and 
good  included  in  it ;  and  these  facts 
will  be  known  to  the  world  of  man- 
kind in  time,  if  not  at  the  present. 

If  it  shall  prove  true,  my  friends, 
as  the  scriptures  teach  and  as  we  be- 
lieve, that  the  Gospel  is  the  plan 
which  the  Lord  instituted  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world,  by  which 
men  can  be  saved  in  His  kingdom 
and  presence,  and  there  is  no  other 
plan,  and  that  it  is  the  plan  by  which 
all  men  are  to  be  judged,  and  that 
justice  demands  that  it  be  taught  to 
the  dead  as  well  as  to  the  living,  and 
that  the  ordinances  which  are  neces- 
sary for  the  living  are  also  neces- 
sary for  the  dead,  what  a  satisfac- 
tion it  will  be  when  these  things  are 
known  generally  to  those  who  have 
accepted  of  them.  On  the  other 
hand,  what  a  great  disappointment 
it  will  be  to  those  who  have  rejected, 
and  how  much  better  off  we  will  be 
who  have  built  temples  and  main- 
tained them  at  such  cost,  who  have 
procured  at  great  cost  and  effort  the 
genealogies  of  our  dead,  and  have 
gone  into  the  temples  of  the  Lord 
and  performed  these  ordinances  for 
them !  I  say,  what  a  satisfaction  it 
will  be  to  us,  and  what  a  disappoint- 
ment it  will  be  to  those  who  have 
rejected  these  principles. 

If  it  shall  prove  true,  as  we  be- 
lieve, and  as  the  scriptures  plainly 
teach,  that  a  worthy  man  and  woman 


joined  together  as  husband  and  wife, 
under  solemn  covenant  for  time  and 
for  all  eternity,  that  union  solemn- 
ized in  the  Temple  of  the  Lord  as  He 
has  directed,  by  the  authority  which 
he  has  delegated  to  men,  and 
those  relationships  maintained  and 
recognized  in  the  life  beyond, 
and  that  they  shall  have  eter- 
nal increase  in  the  kingdom  of 
God, — and  that  all  other  unions  will 
not  be  so  recognized, — what  a  satis- 
faction it  will  be  to  those  who  have 
accepted  this  divine  truth,  this  great 
hope,  and  have  yielded  obedience  un- 
to it,  and  have  been  true  and  faithful 
in  the  keeping  of  their  covenants ! 
On  the  other  hand,  what  a  great  dis- 
appointment it  will  be  to  those  who 
have  rejected  these  scriptural  and 
divine  truths ! 

My  brethren,  sisters,  and  friends, 
we  find  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  on  the  safe  side  of  this  great 
question  from  any  angle  that  we 
may  view  it.  Is  it  then  to  be  won- 
dered that  when  men  come  among 
us,  and  women  too,  proselyting,  that 
they  do  not  convert  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  their  faith,  their  creeds  and 
denominations  ?  Is  it  a  wonder  that 
our  missionaries  who  have  been  in 
the  field  by  thousands,  yes  hundreds 
of  thousands,  at  different  times, 
have  not  been  converted  in  the  world 
by  men  who  have  been  schooled  for 
the  ministry?  Is  it  a  wonder  that 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  in  the  world,  honest  and  con- 
scientious, have  yielded  obedience 
unto  these  principles,  forsaking  all 
that  their  former  faith,  or  creeds, 
had  to  offer  to  them?  Or  is  it  a 
wonder  that  there  are  today,  as  there 
are,  thousands  of  men  and  women 
who  have  come  among  us,  not  for 
religion's  sake,  many  of  whom,  by 
investigation  of  these  truths,  have 
become  converted,  convinced,  and 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


69 


have  turned  away  from  their  former 
faith,  and  adopted  the  true  faith,  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ?  I 
say  it  is  no  wonder.  The  promise  is 
that  the  truth  shall  be  understood  by 
the  true  individual,  he  whose  heart 
is  true  before  God,  if  he  will  seek 
with  honest  heart  and  purpose  to 
know  the  truth,  shall  find  it.  "Seek 
and  ye  shall  find."  .By  yielding  obe- 
dience unto  the  commandments  and 
the  requirements  of  the  Gospel,  fol- 
lowing the  dictates  of  his  conscience, 
he  may  obtain  eternal  life,  and 
through  obedience  and  faithfulness, 
he  may  know  while  yet  in  life,  that 
his  course  is  approved  of  the  Lord, 
and  that  it  will  bring  to  him  a  re- 
ward of  eternal  life. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  as  a  wit- 
ness for  the  Lord  this  day,  that  T  do 
know  that  these  are  the  truths  of 
God,  that  this  Gospel  is  indeed  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and 
exaltation,  unto  all  who  will  obey 
faithfully  its  precepts,  and  there  is 
no  other  plan  instituted  by  the  Gods 
for  the  salvation  of  the  children  of 
men  ;  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "True 
to  the  faith." 

ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH 

(President  of  Northern  States  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
in  having  the  privilege  of  mingling 
with  you  in  this  General  Conference 
of  the  Church.  I  enjoyed,  beyond 
measure,  the  instructions  and  the 
spirit  of  our  morning  session,  and 
the  words  of  President  Smith 
wherein  he  said  that  the  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  are  at  peace  with 
themselves,  and  there  was  no  spirit 
of    contention    one    with  another 


within  the  Church.  We  have  no 
power  over  the  world  except  by  the 
power  of  love,  and  we  have  no  right 
to  operate  in  any  other  way  than 
in  the  spirit  of  love  and  kindness, 
the  spirit  of  long  suffering,  and  of 
gentleness  toward  our  fellow  men, 
for  that  is  the  Spirit  of  the  Re- 
deemer, our  Lord  and  Master. 

I  was  touched  with  his  counsel, 
too,  and  I  reflected  on  what  we  find 
recorded  concerning  the  counsels 
of  Adam,  when  before  he  left  this 
earth,  he  called  his  sons  and  grand- 
sons, and  all  the  generations  that 
lived  in  his  day,  around  him  and 
gave  them  information  concerning 
the  things  that  he  knew  of  God  his 
Father.  The  knowledge  that  Adam 
possessed  concerning  his  Father  was 
handed  down  to  his  sons,  his  grand- 
sons, and  great-grand-sons,  and 
possibly  many  other  generations. 
Those  who  lived  in  the  days  of 
Adam  were  acquainted  with  their 
fore-fathers,  and  possibly  lived  in 
the  presence  of  many  generations, 
and  a  knowledge  of  God  was  un- 
derstood by  them,  and  many  of  them 
kept  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord. 

From  time  to  time,  during  the 
days  of  the  prophets  of  old,  the  Lord 
revealed  Himself  unto  His  chil- 
dren, and  His  attributes  and  His 
loving  kindness  were  known  among 
the  children  of  men.  On  one  oc- 
casion, when  He  was  about  to  de- 
stroy the  cities  of  the  plains,  we  are 
told  that  one  of  the  prophets 
pleaded  with  Him  not  to  do  so,  ask- 
ing for  the  privilege  of  going  and 
gathering  out  those  who  were 
honest,  saying  if  he  could  find  fifty 
righteous,  would  He  spare  the  cities, 
and  later  if  He  would  spare  the 
cities  even  if  he  found  but  ten  right- 
eous. And  the  Lord  said  His 
mercy  would  be  extended  toward 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them  providing  he  could  find  these 
few  righteous.  In  the  days  of  Noah 
the  Lord's  patience  and  long-suf- 
fering toward  the  wicked  lasted 
one  hundred  and  twenty  years,  even 
after  He  gave  the  revelation  to 
Noah  to  build  an  ark.  The  knowl- 
edge of  our  Heavenly  Father  was 
handed  down  by  the  prophets  of  the 
Lord  from  generation  to  generation 
until  the  coming  of  His  Son,  Jesus, 
into  the  earth,  Jesus  became  a  rev- 
elation of  His  Father  to  the  chil- 
dren of-  men,  through  all  time  there- 
after. Divine  mercy  was  shown  by 
the  Almighty  through  His  Son  com- 
ing and  ministering  among  men  in 
the  flesh,  showing  by  His  works 
among  them,  by  His  gentleness, 
kindness  and  long-suffering  that  the 
Father  loves  His  earthly  children. 

I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  that  was 
proclaimed  this  morning  is  possessed 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  that  their 
mission  in  the  earth  is  one  of  peace, 
and  the  proclamation  of  peace  even 
with  the  olive  branch.  All  men  must 
hear  the  Gospel  of  peace,  and  be 
judged  thereby;  not  only  hear  the 
sound,  but  have  in  their  hearts  a 
knowledge  of  God,  our  Father,  and 
comprehend  His  love  toward  the 
children  of  men.  Latter-day  Saints 
believe  that  very  few  men  in  the 
earth  can  commit  the  unpardonable 
sin,  because  they  do  not  have  knowl- 
edge enough  concerning  God.  The 
sin  for  which  there  is  no  forgive- 
ness is  the  sin  against  light  and 
knowledge.  Men  and  women 
throughout  the  world,  tens  of  thou- 
sands who  now  take  sides  against 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  do  so  because 
they  have  no  knowledge  concerning 
that  which  has  been  revealed  to  us 
from  the  heavens.  If  they  knew  as 
we  know,  concerning  the  revelations 
of  God  our  Father,  they  might  be 
just  as  valiant  for  the  truth,  and 


just  as  zealous  in  proclaiming  it  as 
the  Latter-day  Saints  themselves 
are. 

I  rejoice  to  be  associated  with  the 
young  men  and  young  women  of 
Zion,  your  sons  and  daughters,  who 
have  been  sent  into  the  world  with 
the  olive  branch  of  peace,  to  make 
friends  with  the  world,  to  win  their 
hearts  in  every  way  that  is  right, 
that  thereby  we  may  teach  them 
the  great  things  that  our  Father  has 
revealed  in  this  day  and  time.  After 
the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior  and  the 
putting  to  death  of  the  prophets  of 
the  Lord,  and  the  true  knowledge 
of  God  having  departed  from  the 
earth,  He  has  been  merciful  in  these 
the  last  days  in  restoring  anew  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus ;  not  only  restoring 
the  Gospel,  but  revealing  His  own 
character,  and  the  character  of  His 
Son  to  the. children  of  men.  All  the 
knowledge  given  to  Adam,  Abra- 
ham, Moses  and  the  prophets  of  old, 
has  been  renewed  in  this  day, 
through  the  coming  of  the  Father 
and  of  the  Son.  It  has  been  given 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  pro- 
claim to  the  world  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son,  and 
that  the  love  of  God  shall  yet  cover 
the  earth  as  the  waters  cover  the 
mighty  deep.  The  knowledge  of  God 
shall  spread  upon  the  earth  until 
every  man  who  is  seeking  the  truth 
may  have  the  privilege  of  hearing 
and  obeying  it,  working  out  salva- 
tion for  themselves,  and  for  their 
fathers  and  mothers  who  have  gone 
before,  and  transmitting  that  knowl- 
edge to  their  posterity. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  gathering  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  these  semi-annual  con- 
ferences, and  the  quarterly  confer- 
ences, and  ward  conferences.  I  be- 
lieve the  day  will  speedily  come 
when  there  will  be  some  other  feat- 


ELDER  GERMANE.  ELLSWORTH. 


71 


ures  connected  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  gathering  together,  that  used 
to  be  among  the  Saints  of  old.  We 
make  records  of  our  dead  ancestors, 
and  transmit  them  to  our  posterity ; 
and  I  believe  we  will  incorporate 
into  our  associations  the  spirit  that 
was  in  the  hearts  of  the  prophets  of 
old,  and  record  the  stories  of  our 
fathers,  grandfathers  and  great- 
grand-fathers  for  the  benefit  of  our 
children,  that  they  may  transmit  it 
to  the  generations  that  follow.  As  I 
have  already  stated,  Adam  trans- 
mitted the  knowledge  of  God  to  his 
posterity,  and  taught  them  all  things 
concerning  the  purposes  of  God.  In 
like  manner,  I  believe  we  should 
teach  our  children  the  history  of  our 
parents  and  grandparents,  and  all 
relatives  in  whose  presence  we  have 
lived ;  and  also  teach  them  to  trans- 
mit the  same  to  their  children,  that 
the  knowledge  of  our  fathers  may 
go  to  our  descendants  by  word  of 
mouth  as  well  as  by  record.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  have  received  a 
revelation  from  God,  in  this  day, 
which  is  in  harmony  with  the  reve- 
lations that  were  given  to  Adam  and 
the  prophets  of  old,  that  God  is  our 
Father,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son, 
the  only  begotten  of  the  Father  in 
the  flesh. 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  has  been 
given  an  understanding  of  the 
knowledge  concerning  God  that  was 
imparted  to  Adam.  We  are  living 
in  the  dispensation  in  which  this 
knowledge  has  again  been  revealed  ; 
and  I  believe  that  we  should  trans- 
mit this  important  information  to 
our  children.  God  has  been  merci- 
ful and  kind  to  us.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing  to  have  sounded  in  our 
ears,  by  the  very  men  who  stood  in 
the  presence  of  God  the  Father  and 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  are 
His  children,  that  God  is  in  very 


deed  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
Jesus  is  our  Elder  Brother.  The 
world  does  not  believe  this,  and  sci- 
entific men,  men  of  great  worldly 
learning,  have  spent  their  lives  in 
trying  to  prove  some  other  way  to 
account  for  the  existence  of  man  in 
the  earth. 

I  am  glad,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  I  know  my  father  was  a 
good  man,  and  my  grandfather  like- 
wise. I  am  acquainted  with  some 
of  their  attributes  and  virtues,  and 
some  of  the  things  they  tried  to  do 
in  the  world.  I  know  something 
also  concerning  my  ancestors  be- 
yond my  grandfather,  and  what 
good  things  they  tried  to  attain  in 
life.  That  information  ought  to  be 
transmitted,  I  think,  to  my  children. 
A  record  of  all  the  virtues  of  our 
forefathers  should  be  transmitted  to 
the  children  of  men  who  now  live 
and  will  live  hereafter  in  the  earth, 
that  the  good  influence  thereof 
might  be  passed  on  until  the  time 
when  Jesus  shall  come  to  reign 
among  His  children  here  upon  the 
earth,  and  dwell  with  the  men  and 
women  who  have  worked  for  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 
A  doctrine  that  has  been  revealed 
in  this  day  is  that  works  should  ac- 
company the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints ;  not  preaching,  only,  but 
building  houses  of  worship,  and 
temples  :  gathering  genealogies,  and 
histories.  Seek  and  find  all  that  we 
can  concerning  those  who  have  gone 
before,  and  transmit  all  that  is  of 
value  to  our  children,  that  they  may 
do  the  work  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  declared  should  be  done 
in  this  day. 

I  rejoice  in  the  spiritual  growth 
of  the  young  men  and  young  women 
who  have  been  sent  to  the  Northern 
States  Mission.  I  rejoice  when  a 
testimonv  of  the  Lord  comes  to  them 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  defending  the  faith,  and  greater 
love  for  the  work  of  God  comes  into 
their  hearts,  and  that  the  doctrine 
of  peace,  preached  this  morning, 
takes  possession  of  them.  If  I  ask 
them  concerning  the  city  where  they 
labor,  they  can  tell  you  there  are 
many  honest-hearted  people  in  it, 
good  men  and  good  women,  and 
they  do  not  wish  to  be  taken  away 
from  these  cities,  at  least  they  do 
not  want  the  judgment  of  the  Lord 
to  come  upon  them :  they  would 
plead  with  the  Lord  for  the  privilege 
that  the  city  be  saved.  They  desire 
to  gather  out  the  honest  in  heart, 
and  teach  them  that  God  our 
Father,  in  this  day  has  revealed 
again  concerning  His  character  and 
the  character  of  His  Son,  and  has 
restored  the  Gospel  with  lall  the 
power  that  has  ever  been  given  to 
men  in  the  earth  for  the  winning 
of  the  souls  of  men,  and  for  teach- 
ing men  who  they  are,  and  what 
they  are  in  the  world  for,  and  why 
they  have  been  Iplaced  upon  the 
earth  in  this  day  and  time. 

It  is  a  glorious  thing,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  have  a  knowledge  in 
your  heart  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  our  Father 
has  been  merciful  to  us  in  this  day 
in  restoring  the  plan  whereby  we 
might  be  saved  in  His  kingdom.  I 
know  this  Gospel  is  true.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  know  that  Joseph  F.  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  has 
influence  over  the  hearts  of  men  and 
women  to  lift  them  up  and  make 
them  better  in  this  life ;  and  their 
righteous  lives  gives  them  a  better 
chance  of  salvation  in  the  life  to 
come.  I  am  only  one  of  hundreds 
of  voting  men  who  have  been 
touched  by  the  lives  of  the  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church,  in 
whose  hearts  dwells  the  love  of  God 


and  the  love  of  their  fellow,  men. 
That  influence  is  not  confined  either 
to  the  President  of  the  Church,  and 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  but  is  pos- 
sessed also  by  Stake  Presidents  and 
Bishops,  and  is  in  the  hearts  of  all 
the  men  and  women  who  have  a 
testimony  of  God,  and  are  striving 
to  keep  His  commandments. 

May  the  God  of  heaven  help  us 
to  defend  the  faith,  to  magnify 
the  name  of  God  through  all  our 
days,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  California  Mission.) 

"Thy  dead  men  shall  live ;  to- 
gether with  my  dead  body  shall  they 
arise.  Awake  and  sing,  ye  that 
dwell  in  dust,  for  thy  clew  is  as  the 
dew  of  herbs,  and  the  earth  shall 
cast  out  the  dead,"  so  said  Isaiah  to 
ancient  Israel.  Today  (Easter  Sun- 
day), throughout  all  Christendom, 
people  who  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  are  giving  evidence,  by  wor- 
ship and  by  offerings  and  gifts,  that 
they  believe  the  words  of  Isaiah.  It 
was  not  always  so,  and  so  far  as 
that  is  concerned,  it  is  but  true  in  a 
limited  sense  today,  for  of  the  350,- 
000.000  of  so-called  Christians, 
against  1.500,000,000  of  people  in 
the  world,  there  are  many  of  the 
Christians  who  do  not  accept  as  a 
fact  the  teachings  of  the  Bible  that 
Christ  did  arise,  and  that  the  dead 
shall  come  again  from  the  tomb  as 
foretold  by  Isaiah  and  by  the  proph- 
ets who  followed  after  him. 

As  well  said  by  Elder  Richards, 
anyone  who  has  studied  the  provi- 
dences of  God  from  time  imme- 
morial must  be  struck  with  the  evi- 
dent love,  mercy,  charity  and  provi- 
dent kindness  that  lie  has  exercised 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


73 


toward  His  children,  for  though 
Adam  fell  and  brought  upon  himself 
and  his  children  endless  sleep  in  the 
grave,  God  suffered  men  not  to  die, 
until  they  had  been  sufficiently  in- 
structed in  the  plan  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, to  know  that  they  might  live 
again.  An  angel  was  sent  who  in- 
structed Adam  not  only  in  the  prin- 
ciple of  faith  in  God  and  repentance 
from  wrong  doing,  but  in  the  ordi- 
nance of  baptism,  and  took  him  and 
laid  him  beneath  the  watery  ele- 
ment, that  he  too  should  be  born 
anew  from  the  grave  of  waters  and 
thus  evidence  faith  in  Christ,  typi- 
fied by  the  Lamb,  that  he  was  in- 
structed to  offer  as  a  sacrifice  to 
teach  all  his  children  in  a  concrete 
manner  the  fact  that  Christ,  the 
Lamb  of  God,  in  the  meridian  of 
time  should  be  offered  up  as  a  sac- 
rifice that  men  should  not  sleep 
eternally  in  the  dust.  So  Adam  was 
baptized,  and  he  taught  these  prin- 
ciples of  saving  grace  unto  his  chil- 
dren and  his  children's  children  for 
nearly  a  thousand  years  of  mortal 
reckoning. 

Not  only  did  God  manifest  Him- 
self to  Adam  and  the  ancient  patri- 
archs— to  Noah,  who  builded  the 
ark,  and  to  his  sons,  and  their  im- 
mediate descendants,  but  when 
Israel  had  become  a  nation  of  serfs 
in  bondage  in  Egypt,  He  spoke  unto 
them  by  the  mouth  of  Aaron,  as 
well  as  by  that  of  Moses ;  and  not 
only  to  Israel  did  He  make  His  call 
to  repentance,  but  unto  the  Egyp- 
tians as  well.  For  mark  you,  not 
one  of  the  wondrous  miracles  per- 
formed in  Egypt  but  what  was  a 
direct  rebuke  to  the  Egyptian  gods. 

The  insignia  of  power  in  Egypt 
was  the  sacred  snake,  two  entwined 
which  made  the  crown  of  the 
Pharaohs  of  Upper  and  Lower 
Egypt.  The  rod  of  Aaron,  cast  upon 


the  ground  in  the  symbol  of  that 
power,  overcame  the  snake  of  the 
Egyptian,  and  in  that  little  thing, 
showed  the  power  of  the  Hebrew 
God  to  be  greater  than  that  of  the 
magicians  of  the  Egyptian  king. 

The  River  Nile,  the  Father  of 
Waters,  the  healer  of  the  sick,  wor- 
shiped by  the  Egyptians  as  the 
bringer  of  seed  time  and  harvest — 
for  in  flood  time  it  spread  its  waters 
out  over  the  great  valley  of  the  Nile, 
making  it  the  granary  of  the  ancient 
world — this  river  became  flooded 
with  the  red  waters  from  the  moun- 
tains, until  it  became  like  as  blood 
and  was  a  thing  of  disgust  unto  the 
people.  It  nauseated  where  once  it 
had  pleased,  and  sickened,  they 
turned  away  from.,  that  which  once 
they  had  bowed  down  to  in  devo- 
tion, unto  which  they  had  offered 
virgins  as  sacrifice — and  felt  again 
that  the  wrath  of  the  Hebrew  God 
made  manifest  His  omnipotence 
over  theirs  of  the  Nile. 

Its  inundation  brought  with  it, 
doubtless,  the  plague  of  frogs.  The 
frog,  in  Egypt  was  a  sacred  crea- 
ture, and  he  who  inadvertently 
should  tread  upon  one  and  kill  it, 
was  himself  to  suffer  the  penalty  of 
death.  Now  this  great  plague  came 
upon  the  land,  as  foretold  by  Moses, 
until  it  crowded  into  their  homes, 
into  their  bedrooms,  and  even  into 
the  kneading  troughs.  Sickened 
again,  and  in  disgust,  the  Egyptian 
turned  away  from  the  laothsome 
creature,  and  was  robbed  again  of  a 
god  that  he  had  worshiped. 

So  with  the  plague  of  lice  and 
flies — for  one  of  their  most  sacred 
goddesses  was  supposed  to  keep 
these  things  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt 
— but  they  crept  in  upon  them,  into 
sanctuaries  of  their  temples,  even 
the  holy  of  holies,  and  the  priestly 
robes  of  the   initiated  priesthood, 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


were  all  defiled  by  these  loathsome 
things,  until  again  they  were  dis- 
gusted with  their  gods  and  felt  how 
impotent  they  were  when  arrayed 
against  the  power  of  Israel's  God ; 
and  so  on,  from  step  to  step,  the 
hail,  the  thunders  and  the  lightnings 
which  are  so  infrequent  in  that  land, 
so  much  so  that  it  is  said  "in  Egypt 
it  never  rains,"  came  upon  them  and 
destroyed  their  crops.  Murrain 
came  upon  the  beasts  of  the  field 
and  destroyed  doubtless  the  great 
bull  Amnion  that  they  worshiped  in 
the  temple  of  Heliopolis. 

The  great  god  Ra,  the  sun.  that 
painted  the  flowers  and  ripened  the 
harvest,  that  •  secured  them  in 
warmth,  was  put  out  in  the  midst  of 
darkness,  that  men  could  feel,  and 
made  a  night  of  three  days  in  which 
there  could  be  no  light  made,  and  so 
this  god  in  turn,  was  made  to  bow 
to  the  power  of  Israel's  God. 

By  this  time,  the  Egyptians  were 
ready  to  let  Israel  go,  but  Pharaoh 
hardened  his  heart  again.  His  pos- 
sessions had  not  diminished  so 
much.  His  servants  had  kept  from 
him  the  dread  things  that  had  come 
to  the  common  people ;  and  so  he 
still  held  out  for  the  power  of  the 
Egyptian  god  against  that  of  Israel. 
Then  the  warning  was  sent  unto 
him— for  lie  had  refused  longer  to 
look  upon  the  face  of  Moses — that 
the  destroying  angel  should  pass 
through  the  land,  and  that  the  first- 
born of  every  creature,  both  of  man 
and  beast  should  be  destroyed  ex- 
cept where  they  exercised  faith  in 
the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  and  typified 
it  as  it  had  been  in  Eden's  garden 
by  the  sacrifice  that  was  to  be  made, 
and  their  door-posts  and  the  lintels 
thereof  were  to  be  sprinkled  with 
blond  of  the  sacrificial  lamb.  That 
night,  we  understand,  a  scourge 
passed  over   Egypt,  and  none  es- 


caped except  those  who  were  faith- 
ful and  did  as  ordered  by  Moses. 
In  the  house  of  Pharaoh  was  lifted 
the  voice  of  mourning,  for  his  first- 
born was  stricken  down  with  the 
dread  malady,  and  so  their  great 
god  Osiris,  the  last  and  final  one, 
the  arbiter  of  their  fates,  the  one 
who  gave  life  to  the  world,  was  put 
to  naught  and  shamed  by  the  power 
of  the  Hebrew  God. 

And  so  by  these  miracles  testi- 
mony was  given  to  ancient  Egypt, 
that  they  too  might  repent  and  not 
be  cut  off  until  they  had  been  suffi- 
ciently instructed  in  the  way  of 
truth.  And  when  Moses,  having 
divided  the  waters  of  the  Red  Sea, 
and  carried  his  people  through  vic- 
toriously to  the  nether  side  thereof, 
to  the  plains  of  Arabia,  when  he 
sought  out  his  father-in-law  Jethro, 
and  announced  unto  him  all  that 
God  had  done  in  Egypt,  the  old 
priest,  who  had  given  to  Moses  his 
priesthood  and  instructed  him  ii1  the 
ways  of  righteousness,  lifted  up  his 
voice  and  his  eyes  unto  the  heavens, 
and  said,  "Now  I  know  that  the 
Lord  is  greater  than  all — for  in  the 
thing  wherein  they  dealt  proudly — 
He  was  above  them." 

And  so  the  Lord,  by  His  benefi- 
cence and  love  hath  taught  to  all 
men  as  they  would  receive  light  and 
instruction,  the  fact  of  His  redemp- 
tion— the  truths  of  His  Gospel. 

It  was  a  hard  thing  to  understand 
that  men  might  live  again — they 
who  were  laid  away  in  their  tomb — 
that  their  bodies,  revivified,  renewed 
and  immortalized,  should  coine 
forth  to  eternal  life,  to  immortality 
and  everlasting  youth :  but  Isaiah 
knew  it,  and  declared  it  unto  Israel 
as  I  have  quoted :  and  the  major 
prophets  after  him  bear  that  same 
testimony. 

The  Lamb  of  God  Himself  de- 


ELDERJOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


75 


clared  when  he  was  upon  the  earth, 
"I  am  the  resurrection  and  the  life: 
he  who  believeth  on  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live,"  and 
said,  "If  I  be  lifted  up,  I  shall  draw 
all  men  unto  me  ;"  and  declared  that 
not  only  should  the  living  hear  His 
voice,  but  they  who  were  dead  and 
in  their  graves  should  hear  the  voice 
of  the  Son  of  God  and  live." 

The  testimony  of  the  ancient 
fathers  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  the 
Scripture,  bear  witness  that  Christ, 
before  He  arose  from  the  grave  and 
broke  the.  shackles  of  death,  went 
into  the  prison  house  and  preached 
to  the  spirits  which  were  in  prison — 
and  for  this  reason,  says  Peter,  "that 
they  might  be  judged  according  to 
men  in  the  flesh" — by  the  same  law, 
by  the  same  ordinances,  by  the  same 
constraints,  the  same  reasoning  that 
men  are  judged  today:  faith  in  God, 
repentance  from  sin,  baptism  by  im- 
mersion, and  the  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — for 
these  were  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel that  Christ  and  His  apostles 
taught  to  men,  by  which  He  founded 
the  Church,  setting  at  the  head  first 
Apostles,  Prophets,  etc. — and  being 
"judged  according  to  men  in  the 
flesh,"  as  you  and  I  shall  be  judged, 
being  in  the  spirit  world  they  should 
"live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit." 

We  have  been  told,  and  we  have 
read,  of  the  miraculous  resurrection 
of  the  Christ,  of  His  recovery  from, 
death,  and  the  bringing  out  of  His 
body  from  the  tomb,  that  He  walked 
and  talked  with  men,  ate  with  them, 
and  taught  them  for  a  season  of  sev- 
eral weeks  relative  to  His  plan  and 
their  labors  for  bringing  to  pass  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  I 
know  that  hard-headed  men  are 
loath  to  accept  the  fact  that  we  can 
live  again  ;  and  yet,  if  this  be  not 
true,  we  stand  as  a  contradiction  of 


all  of  nature's  creation.  We  are  a 
paradox,  yea,  more  than  a  paradox, 
an  anomaly ;  for  God  has  set  in  our 
hearts  alone,  so  far  as  we  can  deter- 
mine, the  longing,  the  desire,  the 
yearning  after  immortality  and  eter- 
nal life.  We  understand  that  there 
is  nothing  meaningless,  nothing  vain 
or  waste  in  the  emotions  of  living 
creatures :  that  they  shall  meet  their 
complement  here  or  hereafter. 

We  build,  we  suffer,  and  we  sacri- 
fice for  things  that  within  and  of 
themselves  of  necessity,  because  of 
mortality,  can  never  be  attained  unto 
in  mortal  life.  Life  were  vain,  in 
fact,  "if  in  this  life  only  we  have 
hope,"  for  the  deepest  things  that 
stir  our  souls,  that  which  appeals  to 
us  most,  has  to  do  with  the  future, 
with  the  eternal  association  with  one 
another,  in  the  family  relationship, 
in  the  presence  of  God  and  His 
Christ,  who  was  the  first  fruit  of 
them  who  slept,  and  in  whose  image 
and  likeness,  John  tells  us,  we  shall 
be  when  He  comes  again,  for  the 
grave  and  death  and  hell  shall  give 
up  the  dead  in  them,  and  they  shall 
come  forth  in  the  same  type  as  the 
Master  did. 

Men  believed  in  spirits  anciently, 
and  they  believe  in  them  today,  and 
when  the  Master  stood  before  Hirs 
disciples,  "they  were  affrighted," 
saith  the  scriptures,  for  they  thought 
it  was  His  Spirit,  but  He  called  unto 
them  and  said,  "Handle  me,  and  see 
that  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones 
as  you  see  me  have."  And  still  they 
were  afraid,  and  so  He  asked  if  they 
had  anything  to  eat,  and  they  gave 
to  Him  an  honeycomb  and  fish,  and 
He  ate  in  their  presence.  A  week 
later,  on  the  Lord's  day,  when  He 
appeared  unto  them  again,  and  the 
doubtful  one,  Thomas,  who  had 
heard  the  testimony  of  his  brethren 
and  of  the  women  who  had  seen  the 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ  and  conversed  with  Him,  did 
not  believe  that  testimony,  but  said, 
"ve  have  seen  a  spirit."  and  con- 
tended with  them,  that  he  would  not 
believe  unless  he  could  thrust  his 
hand  into  His  side  and  feel  the 
prints  of  the  nails  in  the  hands  and 
feet  of  the  Master,  and  would  not 
believe  that  He  had  recovered  His 
body  from  the  dead — the  Master  ap- 
peared before  him  and  said,  "Reach 
hither  thy  hand  and  thrust  it  into 
my  side  and  be  not  faithless  but  be- 
lieving," and  Thomas,  convinced  in 
his  soul,  cried  out,  "My  Lord,  and 
my  God  ;"  and  the  Master  upbraided 
him  gently  because  he  had  needed 
such  a  testimony  to  believe,  because 
he  would  not  accept  the  word  of  his 
brethren  nor  their  testimony.  He 
said,  "Thomas,  because  thou  hast 
seen  me,  thou  hast  believed :  blessed 
are  they  who  have  not  seen  and  yet 
have  believed." 

And  that  is  the  touch-stone  of 
virtue  with  the  Christian  today. 
Does  he  walk  by  faith?  Is  he  will- 
ing to  accept  the  words  of  the  wit- 
nesses of  the  Christ  and  the  words 
of  the  Master,  and  not  desire  to  han- 
dle and  see  for  himself  as  did 
Thomas?  For  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  when  a  man  has  to  do  a  thing, 
there  is  no  virtue  in  it.  But  when 
he  chooses  to.  when  he  exercises 
faith  and  confidence,  then  there  is 
virtue  and  righteousness  in  it. 

T  said  if  there  be  no  immortality, 
we  stand  as  a  contradiction  to  the 
rules  of  nature,  an  anomaly  in  her 
handiwork,  for  when  we  look  forth 
upon  her  creations,  they  all  answer 
the  end  thereof  in  this  life,  except 
man.  We  need  not  deal  with  the 
vegetable  field,  but  when  we  come 
to  animate  things,  to  the  birds  of  the 
air  and  the  fishes  of  the  deep,  and 
the  beasts  and  the  creeping  things  of 
the  field — they  have  no  thought  of 


the  morrow,  no  care  and  no  heed. 
Divine  providence  cares  for  them, 
brings  a  complement  of  their  lives 
to  them.  Some  will  tell  us  it  is  in- 
tuition that  guides  them  so  uner- 
ringly in  the  pursuit  of  that  which 
prolongs  their  lives  and  enables 
them  to  perpetuate  their  species  in 
the  earth,  and  others  would  have  us 
believe  it  is  habit ;  but  those  who 
walk  by  faith  see  behind  it  all  a 
divine  will  that  directs  all  of  the  en- 
ergies of  nature  and  all  of  her  crea- 
tures, to  the  end  that  His  name  shall 
be  honored  and  glorified,  and  that 
His  purposes  relative  to  His  creat- 
ures shall  be  fulfilled,  and  that  thev 
aside  from  man.  and  man  too,  shall 
come  to  a  fullness  of  joy. 

But  with  the  creatures  beneath 
men.  they  have  not  their  own  will, 
they  answer  the  ends  of  the  divine 
will.  But  when  it  comes  to  us.  God 
hath  given  us  our  free  agency  to 
choose  and  to  act  for  self.  We 
gloried  in  this  before  the  world? 
were.  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  bene- 
factions that  we  have  in  this  life, 
because  by  it  and  with  it  men  can 
develop  the  divine  which  is  within 
them  and  come  into  a  full  fruition 
of  godliness. 

T  said  that  beasts  have  no  thought 
of  the  morrow,  and  no  heed,  except 
as  instinct  or  divine  love  may  guide 
them  to  provide  for  their  morrow  or 
for  themselves :  but  when  it  comes 
to  man,  he  has  the  capability  of  wor- 
ship, of  paying  homage  and  devo- 
tion that  the  beast  has  not ;  and  this 
of  itself,  according  to  the  rules  of 
nature,  demands  a  complement  in  a 
being  to  worship,  in  someone  to  pay 
homage  to  and  a  creature  that 
arouses  our  devotion,  and  to  whom 
we  can  prove  ourselves  devoted ; 
and  so  this,  of  itself,  makes  God  a 
necessity,  for  men  to  come  into  full 
complement  of   his   God-given  at- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


77 


tributes  and  powers.  Man  alone 
has  the  power  of  conceiving  of  a 
heaven,  of  a  hereafter,  and  it  is  with 
all  men,  from  the  most  illustrious 
in  the  halls  of  learning,  to  the  pagan 
of  the  darkest  continent  and  to  the 
Indian  of  our  own  loved  country  in 
his  most  remote  and  ignorant  state. 
They  dream — these  latter — of  their 
"happy  hunting  grounds,"  of  a  place 
where  they  shall  be  provided  for, 
where  gaunt  famine  and  sickness 
are  unknown,  with  a  larder  never 
empty,  and  where  men  dwell  as 
brothers  and  friends. 

The  Christian  dreams  of  a  place 
where  he  shall  worship  God  and 
look  upon  His  face,  where  there 
shall  be  anthems  of  hallelujahs  sung 
forever.  And  the  Latter-day  Saint 
looks  for  the  place  where  he  shall 
build,  as  he  began  to  build  in  this 
life  for  an  eternal  home,  for  the 
family  relationship,  for  father  and 
for  mother,  for  wife  and  husband, 
for  parents  and  children,  to  associate 
together  until  they  shall  come  into  a 
fullness  of  all  that  their  fond  hearts 
have  desired  and  their  minds  have 
conceived  of ;  and  it  shall  be  an  end- 
less home  of  eternal  progression  in 
the  presence  of  the  Christ  and  with 
the  Father,  who  is  God  over  all.  The 
capabilities  which  man  has  are  di- 
vine, and  they  only  lack  time  and 
opportunity  for  expression  in  com- 
plete development  to  become  like  the 
Father,  whose  children  we  are. 

With  Him  and  in  His  presence,  in 
the  eons  of  years  yet  to  come,  we 
shall  come  into  a  fulness  of  divinity, 
and  build  yet  other  mansions  for  our 
Father,  thus  adding  to  His  glory  as 
we  add  to  the  glory  and  perpetuity 
of  our  own  homes  and  families. 

None  but  men  can  conceive  of 
this,  and  when  he  has  once  con- 
ceived of  it,  and  then  is  told  that 
this  probation  is  the  end  of  life,  and 


this  is  the  end  of  progression,  when 
death  shall  claim  us  and  shall  still 
the  voice  and  shut  down  the  eyes 
and  make  pulseless  the  hand — how 
vain  is  life,  and  how  vain  the  im- 
aginations and  sacrifices  of  man ! 
But  how  exalting  the  other  thought ! 
What  an  incentive  to  correct  living 
and  to  proper  thinking  for  men  to 
believe  that  they  can  strike  hands 
with  the  Infinite.  One  can  become 
like  Him  and  have  and  hold  the 
family  relationship  forever  and  ever 
without  end  of  years,  that  God  loved 
them  from  before  the  beginning 
until  after  the  ending  of  this  life, 
and  that  this  bringeth  a  fullness  of 
joy — to  have  the  body  and  the  spirit 
inseparably  connected,  the  body  by 
which  we  receive  so  many  of  our 
impressions  in  this  life,  by  which  we 
have  manifested  ourselves  to  our 
fellows,  by  which  we  have  learned 
the  sweets  of  life  as  well  as  the  bit- 
ter things,  by  which  we  have 
achieved  success,  in  which  we  have 
been  chastened  by  adversity  and  sor- 
row, through  which  we  have  learned 
what  it  is  to  be  cared  for  and  to'  be 
loved,  that  we  in  turn  might  be  com- 
passionate and  loving  to  others,  and 
that  the  full  development  of  our 
capabilities  and  talents  must  come 
and  be  with  and  through  this  vehicle 
that  our  Father  hath  clothed  our 
spirits  with,  and  that  with  this  body 
we  shall  come  into  not  only  that 
which  I  have  intimated,  but  untold, 
which  the  mind  of  man  here,  finite, 
cannot  conceive  of ! 

Would  not  life  then  be  vain  in 
conceiving  these  things  and  having 
these  powers  of  conception,  these  be- 
liefs, these  longings  and  yearnings, 
and  have  them  go  unanswered? 
After  we  have  sacrificed  for  them, 
loved  them,  and  loved  those  who 
have  labored  for  them,  would  not 
life  be  vain?    Would  we  not  be  a 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


contradiction  to  the  law  of  nature  if 
there  be  nothing  of  life  save  this  lit- 
tle span  of  existence,  of  mortality? 
And  so  today,  in  the  light  of  modern 
revelation,  in  the  light  of  what  the 
scientist  has  unfolded,  though  as  yet 
he  has  not  demonstrated  it  in  his 
laboratory — yet  so  nearly  that  our 
greatest  thinkers  today, — Stead  and 
Lodge,  who  are  dead,  and  Currie 
and  Crooks,  Myers  and  Funk  and 
others  alive,  have  announced  the 
fact  that  there  is  an  immortal  > soul, 
and  that  it  is  not  impossible  even 
scientifically,  to  demonstrate  suffi- 
ciently to  prove  to  .the  seeking  mind 
and  the  faithful  heart  that  Christ 
arose  from  the  dead ; — so  shall  the 
bodies  of  men  again  live  and  be 
"energized"  and  be  made  immortal. 

I  thank  them  for  this  testimony, 
because  there  are  some  who  will  not 
accept  in  faith,  as  I  have  said,  nor 
as  did  Thomas,  anything  that  is  not 
demonstrated  coldly  before  them ; 
but  in  the  light  of  these  things,  and 
of  modern  revelation,  I  say  again, 
as  Isaiah  said,  unto  you,  and  as  this 
Sabbath  day,  the  Easter  Sunday, 
should  bear  witness  to  all  men, — 
"Thy  dead  men  shall  live,  together 
with  my  dead  body  shall  they  arise. 
Awake  and  sing,  ye  that  dwell  in  the 
dust,  for  thy  dew  is  as  the  dew  of 
herbs,  and  thy  earth  shall  cast  out 
the  dead."  Amen. 

A  quartet,  consisting  of  James  H. 
Neilson,  Hyrum  J.  Christiansen, 
Harold  Langton  and  Aner  Hansen 
sang  the  hymn,  "O,  give  me  back 
my  Prophet  Dear." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 
To  speak  to  people  in  the  open  is 
new  to  me,  but  there  is  something 
about  it  I  like,  and  that  is.  if  you 
don't  care  for  what  I  say,  you  can 
return  home!  (Laughter.) 


I  am  trying  to  take  the  hopeful, 
optimistic  view  of  things.  I  am 
a  man  among  men  who  are  looking 
into  the  future.  I  have  hope  of  the 
future,  and  I  am  trying  not  tc  be 
afraid  of  it.  I  am  burning  all  my 
bridges  behind  me,  so  that  I  cannot 
go  backward,  I  hope  that  my  course 
will  be  onward  and  that  I  will  look 
upward,  that  I  will  look  out  and  for- 
ward, not  backward.  I  am  trying  to 
be  optimistic,  and  I  am  having  quite 
a  time  of  it.  I  cannot  work  myself 
up  quite  as  well  as  the  man  whn 
fell  from  a  twenty-story  building, 
and  as  he  passed  a  window  of  the 
tenth  story,  a  drummer  in  the  room, 
said  to  his  wife :  "Gee,  that  fel- 
low is  optimistic."  His  wife  said, 
"What  do  you  mean  ?"  "Why,  as  the 
fellow  passed  the  window,  he  said : 
'I'm  all  right  yet.' "  (Laughter.) 

Now,  brethren,  I  read  in  Scripture, 
"He  that  is  the  greatest,  shall  be  a 
servant."  Some  think  that  means 
he  that  is  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  must  be  a  valet,  or  a  butler,  or 
a  hostler.  I  do  not  believe  in  that 
doctrine,  at  all ;  T  think  it  means 
that  he  that  is  greatest  in  the  king- 
dom of  God  must  give  service,  be 
willing  to  sacrifice.  He  that  is  great- 
est must  be  a  Joseph  Smith,  a  Brig- 
ham  Young — and  I  am  not  afraid  to 
say,  a  Heber  C.  Kimball. 

What  I  want  to  talk  about  are  real 
things,  not  something  that  I  do  not 
know  anything  about.  When  I  get 
through,  I  will  have  told  you  some- 
thing I  know,  so  that  you  can  go 
home  and  think  about  it.  I  am  go- 
ing to  talk  about  things  that  have 
happened  since  I  was  born,  not 
something  that  happened  eighteen 
hundred  years  ago,  or  that  will  hap- 
pen hundreds  of  years  in  the  future. 

When  President  Brigham  Young 
came,  with  the  pioneers,  he  was  sick, 
and   prostrated   in  the  wagon  in 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIM  R  J  LI 


79 


which  he  was  riding",  he  rose  and 
saw  this  valley,  and  said :  ''This  is 
the  place:  drive  on!"  He  did  not 
preach  for  an  hour  over  it.  When 
he  came  upon  the  ground  where  this 
Temple  now  stands,  he  dropped  his 
cane,  and  said :  "Here  we  will  build 
a  Temple  to  our  God."  They  got 
bus)-,  they  prayed  about  it,  they 
fasted,  and  then  they  built  it.  It 
took  them  40  years.  When  I  think 
about  that  building,  every  stone  in  it 
is  a  sermon  to  me.  It  tells  of  suf- 
fering, it  tells  of  sacrifice,  it  preach- 
es— every  rock  in  it,  preaches  a  dis- 
course. When  it  was  dedicated,  it 
seemed  to  me  that  it  was  the  great- 
est sermon  that  has  ever  been 
preached  since  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount.  When  I  go  up  on  the  Capi- 
tol Hill,  and  see  that  great  build- 
ing, a  great  pile  of  granite,  etc.,  that 
will  cost  two  million  and  a  half ; 
there  is  not  a  stone  in  it  that  whis- 
pers !  It  is  speechless.  It  does  not 
tell  of  suffering  or  of  faith.  Any 
man  who  will  come  to  the  Bureau 
of  Information  and  listen  to  the 
guides  will  learn  that  every  window, 
every  steeple,  everything  about  the 
Temple  speaks  of  the  things  of  God, 
and  gives  evidence  of  the  faith  of 
the  people  who  built  it. 

When  I  see  this  monument  here, 
(indicating  the  Sea-Gull  Monument 
standing  on  the  Temple  Grounds), 
I  notice  that  many  of  you  men  pass 
it  by  as  if  it  told  no  story.  When 
I  think  of  that  monument,  it  tells  me 
of  suffering,  it  tells  me  of  a  people 
that  were  about  to  be  destroyed  by 
famine  :  it  tells  me  of  crickets  that 
were  destroying  and  eating  up 
everything.  The  people  prayed, 
they  fasted,  and  they  got  busy,  every 
man,  woman,  and  child  killed 
crickets.  But  they  could  not  kill 
them  all,  so  God  came  in  and  helped 
them.  He  sent  the  gulls,  and  they  ate 


the  crickets,  and  the  people  were 
saved. 

That  Tabernacle  preaches  the 
same  kind  of  sermon.  I  helped  haul 
sand  for  it,  when  I  was  a  boy. 
Every  Saturday  we  had  to  haul 
sand,  and  that  is  how  I  learned 
something  about  these  things.  You 
see  this  wall  surrounding  this  block 
— do  you  think  we  built  it  to  keep 
the  Indians  out?  I  want  to  tell  you 
we  built  it  to  give  employment ;  and 
when  people  were  out  of  work,  and 
hungry,  we  found  something  for 
them  to  do.  If  we  could  not  find 
anything  else  to  do,  we  built  walls. 
That  is  what  you  want  to  do  now  — 
give  service — give  work. 

When  Christ  gathered  the  people 
together,  they  were  hungry,  and 
then  their  Master  fed  them,  and 
after  they  were  filled  He  gave  them 
the  Bread  of  Life,  fed  them,  and 
then  told  them  the  truth.  If  people 
are  out  of  employment,  you  find 
something  for  them  to  do,  and  then 
bless  them. 

Think  of  what  this  people  have 
done ;  not  what  they  have  preached, 
but  what  they  have  accomplished, 
and  what  they  have  suffered.  I 
desire  to  say  to  you  Seventies,  get 
ready,  and  after  a  while  we  will  sing 
the  hymn,  "Hark,  Listen  to  the 
Trumpeters !  They  Sound  for 
Volunteers."  Now,  we  will  not  say 
to  you  what  the  Savior  said  to  the 
young  man,  ''Sell  whatsoever  thou 
hast  and  give  to  the  poor,  and  take 
up  the  cross  and  follow  the  Master 
and  I  will  give  you  the  greatest  of 
all  gifts  that  God  has  ever  given  His 
children,  which  is  Eternal  Life," 
all  we  ask  you  to  do  is  to  give  what- 
soever you  have  to  your  family,  and 
pick  up  your  valise  and  go  on  a 
mission.  Do  you  want  eternal  life? 
Almost  everybody  here  would  be 
awfully  keen  for  it,  if  it  did  not  cost 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


anything.  We  would  accept  the 
whole  world  if  it  did  not  cost  any- 
thing ;  I  would  be  willing  to  take 
half  of  it  myself.  (Laughter.) 

The  greatest  of  all  gifts  is  "Eter- 
nal Life,"  but  we  have  to  pay  for 
it,  just  like  our  fathers  and  mothers 
did.  We  will  have  to  pay  for  it 
with  service,  and  with  sacrifice ;  as 
there  can  be  no  blessings  obtained 
without  sacrifice.  I  know  what  is  the 
matter.  We  think  more  of  automo- 
biles, we  think  more  of  oriental 
rugs,  and  hundred-dollar  gowns 
than  we  do  of  salvation.  T  know 
you  have  faith,  many  of  you,  and 
now  we  want  to  begin  to  get  hold 
with  both  hands  and  make  this  fight 
for  the  Lord.  I  prophesy  that  hun- 
dreds of  you,  thousands  of  you,  will 
go  into  the  world  on  missions. 

Now,  my  brethren  every  man  who 
holds  the  holy  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood, and  is  a  Special  Witness  for 
God,  should  get  ready  for  a  mission. 
Begin  to  pay  your  debts,  and  train 
your  family,  and  get  them  so  that 
they  will  be  glad  to  have  you  go. 
Stop  writing  letters  to  the  First 
Council  making  a  lot  of  excuses, 
that  your  wife  is  sick,  that  you  are 
in  debt,  or  that  you  are  sick.  What 
is  faith  for?  Who  is  the  Great 
Physician?  Why  don't  I  get  well? 
Because  I  haven't  faith  enough.  I 


am  trying  to  hurry  up  and  get  well 
so  that  I  can  go. 

You  must  look  into  the  future ; 
this  world  belongs  to  the  visionary 
men.  Brigham  Young  had  a  vision. 
He  said  that  this  city  would  reach 
to  the  point  of  the  mountain  south, 
and  I  am  a  witness  that  it  will  come 
true.  People  did  not  believe  it. 
Joseph  Smith  had  a  vision,  a  revela- 
tion that  we  would  "come  to  the 
Rocky  Mountains  and  build  great 
cities,  and  become  a  mighty  people.'' 
We  have  started  to  fulfill  that  proph- 
ecy. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
have  Prophets,  we  have  Apostles, 
we  have  the  gifts  and  the  blessings. 
You  Seventies  must  go  out  and  heal 
the  sick :  you  must  go  out  and  com- 
fort the  desolate,  and  you  must  go 
to  the  nations  of  the  world,  after  this 
war  is  over — it  cannot  last  forever. 
You  Seventies  will  go — this  proph- 
ecy will  come  true,  otherwise  we 
will  make  High  Priests  of  you  and 
ordain  other  Seventies  who  will  go. 
The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem, 
"Awake  my  Soul,"  Geneva  Harris 
and  II.  J.  Christiansen  sang  the 
duet. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Win.  J.  Robinson. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Conference  was  resumed,  in  the 
Tabernacle,  at  10  a.  m.,  Monday 
April  5th ;  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free 

We  here  enjoy; 
In  this  far  western  land, 
A  true  and  chosen  band, 
Led  hither  by  Thy  hand, 

We  sing  for  joy. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  C. 
F.  Middleton. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints 
No  toil  nor  labor  fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you 
This  journey  may  appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Prevalence  of  Gospel  testimony  among 
the  Saints. — Joy  accompanying  tes- 
timony bearing. — Righteous  living 
essential  to  salvation. — Apostasy  of 
men  highly  favored  of  God. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having 
this  another  opportunity  of  meeting 
in  general  conference.  I  have  en- 
joyed very  much  indeed  all  that 
has  been  said  thus  far  during  our 
conference,  and  I  humbly  pray  that 
the  same  good  spirit  which  has 
characterized  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  by  those,  who  have  pre- 
ceded me,  may  be  given  me.  I  do 
desire  most  earnestly  that  what  I 
say  may  encourage  and  bless  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  it  may 
be  in  harmony  with  what  has  been 


said  by  those  who  have  preceded 
me. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  rejoice  in  my  association 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the 
privileges  which  have  come  to  me  in 
mingling  with  the  people,  and  in 
learning  of  their  feelings,  of  their 
devotion,  of  their  love  of  God  and 
for  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. I  rejoice  in  the  abiding  tes- 
timony of  the  divinity  of  the  mis- 
sion of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus 
Christ,  which  is  to  be  found  among 
the  people.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
know  that  Jesus  was  in  very  deed 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  They 
have  a  positive  knowledge  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  chosen  of  God, 
and  that  he  was  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  establish- 
ing again  on  the  earth  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation.  They  know  that 
he  was  a  true  prophet  of  God ;  they 
have  no  doubt  regarding  the  divin- 
ity of  his  mission.  The  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion  and  the  women  who 
preside  over  the  Relief  Societies, 
the  principal  auxiliary  organization 
among  our  sisters — as  I  mingle 
among  them,  and  also  with  men  and 
women  who  preside  over  the  Sab- 
bath Schools  in  the  stakes,  and  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
Religion  Classes  and  Primaries,  I 
find  a  devotion  and  love  of  God  and 
of  this  work  among  all  of  them 
which  is  a  constant  inspiration  to 
me.  I  rejoice  in  the  rich  outpour- 
ings of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our 
quarterly  conferences.  I  rejoice  in 
the  blessings  that  come  to  me  and  to 


82 


(JEN ERAL  CONFERENCE. 


others,  as  we  mingle  among  the  peo- 
ple, in  being  helped  and  strength- 
ened in  teaching  to  them  the  Gospel 
of  Christ. 

My  heart  has  been  filled  with  grat- 
itude, especially  during  the  past  six 
months,  for  what  seemed  to  me  to 
be  an  increased  portion  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  as  I  mingled  among 
the  people  in  discharge  of  the  du- 
ties that  devolved  upon  me.  I  know 
of  nothing  that  brings  greater  joy 
to  the  human  heart  than  laboring  at 
home  or  abroad  for  the  salvation  of 
the  souls  of  men.  I  know  of  noth- 
ing which  gives  us  a  greater  love 
of  all  that  is  good,  than  teaching 
this  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  To  me, 
one  of  the  greatest  testimonies  of 
the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  our 
Savior  is  the  joy  and  happiness  that 
we  all  experience  whenever  we  tes- 
tify that  He  was  in  very  deed  the 
Son  of  God  and  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  I  know  of  nothing  that 
brings  greater  joy,  except  testifying 
regarding  the  divinity  of  the  mission 
of  the  Savior  than  to  testify  re- 
garding the  divinity  of  the  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

The  three  years  that  I  presided 
over  the  European  mission  were  in 
very  deed  the  most  pleasurable,  the 
most  happy,  the  most  satisfactory 
years  of  all  my  life.  When  instruct- 
ing the  Elders  I  told  them  whenever 
they  seemed  to  be  closed  up  in  their 
spirits,  whenever  they  seemed  to 
lack  ideas  to  express  to  the  people, 
if  they  would  only  testify  that  they 
knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Redeemer, 
and  then  testify  regarding  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that  the  Lord  would  open 
their  mouths  and  bless  them  in 
speaking  to  the  pepole.  The  testi- 
mony of  all  the  Elders  with  whom 
I  came  in  contact  who  had  done  this 
was  that  the  Lord  did,  in  very  deed, 


bless  them  whenever  they  testified 
of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  our 
Savior,  or  when  they  testified  re- 
garding the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Never  at 
other  times  have  I  been  as  abund- 
antly blessed  in  preaching  this  Gos- 
pel as  when  I  have  been  talking  up- 
on these  two  themes.  I  rejoice  in 
the  individual  testimony  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  regarding  the  divinity 
of  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. I  rejoice  in  the  joy  and  the 
happiness  that  it  brings  to  each  and 
every  one  of  us  when  we  are  doing 
our  duty,  and  laboring  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  Gospel,  at  home 
and  abroad. 

I  rejoice  in  the  peace  that  cometh 
to  every  man — a  peace  that  passeth 
understanding  and  my  ability  to  ex- 
press it — when  he  is  serving  God. 
I  wish  that  I  possessed  the  power  to 
inspire  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
greater  diligence,  to  greater  faith- 
fulness, to  a  stronger  determination 
to  serve  God  and  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments. There  is  but  one  path 
of  safety  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  that  is  the  path  of  duty.  It  is 
not  a  testimony,  it  is  not  marvelous 
manifestations,  it  is  not  knowing 
that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
true,  that  it  is  the  plan  of  salvation, 
it  is  not  actually  knowing  that  the 
Savior  is  the  Redeemer,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  His  prophet,  that 
will  save  you  and  me,  but  it  is  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of 
God,  the  living  the  life  of  a  Latter- 
day  Saint. 

I  have  been  profoundly  impressed 
upon  many  occasions,  as  I  have 
studied  the  history  of  the  early  men 
in  this  Church,  with  the  fact  that 
one-half  of  the  first  quorum  of 
Apostles  fell  by  the  wayside ;  that 
all  of  the  three  witnesses  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  who  saw  the 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


83 


angel,  who  heard  the  voice  of  God, 
who  heard  the  Lord  testify  to  them 
that  this  work  had  been  translated 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  that 
the  Lord  Himself,  by  His  voice  from 
heaven,  had  told  these  men  to  bear 
witness  of  this  fact — should  also 
fall  by  the  wayside.  The  same  with 
a  majority  of  the  eight  witnesses. 
Oliver  Cowdery,  who  heard  the 
Savior's  voice,  and  beheld  a  heav- 
enly messenger  before  the  Church 
was  organized,  gave  a  description, 
which  is  recorded  in  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  of  his  ordination,  in 
connection  with  the  Prophet,  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  stating  it  was 
beyond  the  language  of  man  to  paint 
the  jov  and  the  grandeur  that  sur- 
rounded them  upon  that  occasion. 
He  also  had  the  Apostles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  lived  upon 
the  earth  in  the  days  of  our  Savior, 
lay  their  hands  upon  his  head  and 
ordain  him  to  the  Melchizedek,  or 
the  Higher  Priesthood.  In  the 
Kirtland  Temple,  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  he  saw  the  Savior, 
also  Moses,  Elias,  and  Elijah.  He 
had  given  to  him,  in  connection  with 
the  Prophet,  every  key  and  every 
authority  of  all  the  dispensations  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  from 
the  earliest  time  down  to  the  pres- 
ent, and  yet  by  failing  to  do  his  duty 
by  failing  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,  this  man  lost  his 
standing  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
True,  he  repented  and  came  back. 
The  same  is  true  of  Martin  Harris. 
I  remember  hearing  Martin  Harris 
in  this  building  testify  to  the  truth 
of  his  testimony  regarding  the  di- 
vinity of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
also  rejoice  that,  although  he  never 
returned  to  the  Church,  David 
Whitmer  never  varied  in  bearing 
this  testimony;  the  very  fact 
that  this  man,  although  he  bore 


this  testimony  to  the  day  of  his 
death,  had  no  joy,  no  satisfaction 
in  it,  shows  that  the  Spirit  giveth 
life,  and  the  letter  killeth.  I  have 
met  some  who  have  visited  David 
Whitmer,  and  he  told  them  that  it 
was  one  of  the  burdens  of  his  life  to 
have  people  come  there  day  after 
day  to  whom  he  had  to  testify  re- 
garding his  knowledge  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  the  visit  of  the 
angel  to  him. 

There  is  not  a  Latter-day  Saint 
living  who  is  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  who  would  not 
regard  it  as  one  of  the  greatest  joys 
imaginable  if  he  could  testify  that 
he  had  heard  the  voice  of  God,  and 
that  the  Lord  had  given  him  a  com- 
mandment ;  and  that,  in  fulfilment 
of  the  requirement  of  the  Lord,  he 
had  recorded  in  this  testimony :  "we 
bear  witness  of  these  things."  How 
we  all.  would  rejoice  to  be  able  to 
bear  such  a  testimony ;  provided,  we 
had  the  Spirit  of  God ;  provided  we 
were  so  living  that  it  was  not  a 
dead  letter  with  us.  David  Whit- 
mer stopped  growing,  notwith- 
standing the  manifestations  that  he 
had  received,  when  he  failed  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  when  he 
failed  to  recognize  the  proper  au- 
thority in  the  Church  of  Christ. 

May  the  Lord  bless  each  and  all 
of  us ;  and,  as  we  grow  in  years 
and  increase  in  understanding,  may 
we  grow  in  the  light  and  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  a 
determination  to  serve  Him,  and 
keep  His  commandments ;  and  may 
all  of  us  who  hold  places  of  respon- 
sibility in  the  Church  so  order  our 
lives  that  they  may  be  an  inspiration 
to  the  people,  because  of  our  faith- 
fulness, our  diligence,  our  loyalty 
to  this  gospel,  and  our  support  of 
our  file  leaders,  is  my  prayer,  and  I 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Sister  Romania  Hyde  played  a 
selection  on  the  violin. 


ELDER  RUGDER  CLAWSON. 

Nebuchadnezzar's  dream,  and  Daniel's 
interpretation — The  great  image  a 
represenation  of  empires  and  king- 
doms— Fall  of  earthlv  kingdoms,  and 
establishment  of  God's  Kingdom — 
Marvelous  facts  demonstrated  by 
Joseph  Smith's  glorious  vision — 
Perfect  organization  of  the  Church 
— Army  of  the  Priesthood  fighting 
sin. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  violin 
solo  to  which  we  have  just  listened 
rendered  by  Romania  Hyde,  was 
beautiful  indeed,  and  speaks  well  for 
home  talent. 

The  words  of  counsel,  testimony 
and  instruction  which  have  already 
been  spoken  at  this  conference  are 
very  precious  to  us.  I  think  that  we 
ought  to  be  thankful  that  we  have 
our  file  leaders  with  us  today,  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  the 
president  of  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  that  .these  men  are  strong-  in 
limb  and  body,  and  powerful  in  ut- 
terance. Surely  we  ought  to  give 
heed  to  their  counsels. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  during  the  few  moments  T  oc- 
cupy I  may  have  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  T  shall  be 
able  to  say  something  that  will  be 
appropriate  to  this  great  gathering 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  shall 
be  comforting,  encouraging  and  in- 
structive. 

Tn  ancient  times  a  very  remark- 
able thing  happened,  remarkable  be- 
cause it  had  a  bearing  and  an  in- 
fluence upon  the  destiny  of  the 
world,  to  the  latest  generation.  You 


will  perhaps  remember  that  upon 
one  occasion  Nebuchadnezzar,  king 
of  Babylon,  called  into  his  presence 
Daniel,  a  young  Hebrew,  one  of  the 
chosen  race,  and  demanded  of  this 
young  man  two  things  which  the 
magicians  of  Babylon,  the  wise  men, 
had  not  been  able  to  do.  One  was 
that  the  young  man  should  bring  to 
the  mind  of  the  king  a  dream  that 
he  had  dreamed,  and  then  that  he 
should  give  the  interpretation  there- 
of. Daniel  replied  and  said  that  of 
himself  he  could  not  do  this,  but  that 
the  God  of  Heaven  could  do  it.  and 
would  intervene  and  give  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  dream.  So  Daniel 
told  the  great  king  that  in  his  dream 
he  had  seen  a  mighty  image,  and 
that  this  image  represented  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world  which  should 
follow.  Now,  brethren  and  sisters, 
it  is  a  fact  that  subsequent  history 
has  shown  the  exact  fulfillment  of 
Daniel's  prophetic  statement,  so  far 
as  the  world  has  progressed. 

It  seems  that  Babylon,  under 
Nebuchadnezzar  and  Belshazzar, 
represented  the  head  of  gold,  .and 
that  the  great  kingdom  of  the  Medes 
and  Persians,  under  Cyrus  and 
Darius,  represented  the  arms  and 
shoulders  of  the  image ;  and  follow- 
ing this  was  the  powerful  kingdom 
of  Macedonia.  Daniel  did  not  name 
the  kingdoms ;  perhaps  he  didn't 
know  what  their  names  would  be, 
but  he  described  them  ;  and  the  great 
kingdom  of  Macedonia,  under  Alex- 
ander the  Great  and  others,  were 
represented  by  the  belly  and  thighs 
of  the  image,  which  were  of  brass. 
Then  came  the  mighty  empire  of 
Rome  under  the  Caesars,  which 
had  in  it  the  power  and  strength  of 
iron,  to  break  in  pieces,  to  trample 
down  and  destroy.  The  Roman 
Empire,  which  later  was  split  in 
twain,  was  represented  by  the  legs 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


85 


of  the  image.  The  comparison,  you 
will  see,  is  very  correct  and  beauti- 
ful. After  the  decline  and  fall  of 
the  Roman  Empire,  the  kingdom 
was  divided  into  a  number  of  small- 
er kingdoms,  and  these  were  repre- 
sented by  the  feet  and  toes  of  the 
image,  which  were  composed  of  iron 
and  miry  clay  ;  that  is  to  say,  these 
kingdoms  would  have  in  them  the 
strength  of  iron  and  the  weakness  of 
clay,  and  would  not  therefore  cleave 
together.  We  know  that  they  did 
not  cleave  together,  that  these  king- 
doms, the  present  monarchies  of 
Europe,  are  divided  and  are  at  this 
moment  engaged  in  a  great  world 
conflict. 

But  Daniel  said,  and  this  is  the 
particular  thing  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to,  that  "in  the  days  of 
these  kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven 
set  up  a  kingdom  which  shall  never 
be  destroyed,  and  the  kingdom  shall 
not  be  left  to  other  people,  but  it 
shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume 
these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand 
forever.  Forasmuch,"  he  said,  "as 
thou  sawest  that  the  stone  was  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands, 
and  that  it  break  in  pieces  the  iron, 
the  brass,  the  clay,  the  silver  and  the 
gold,  the  great  God  of  heaven  has 
made  known  to  the  king  things 
which  would  come  to  pass  hereafter, 
and"  he  said — and  I  presume  he  said 
it  with  strong  emphasis,  "the  dream 
is  certain,  and  the  interpretation 
thereof  is  sure."  Now,  we  claim 
that  this  kingdom  predicted  by 
Daniel  has  been  set  up.  But  a 
stranger  might  ask,  "Why,  Mr. 
Claw  son,  surely  you  do  not  maintain 
that  the  kingdom  referred  to  by 
Daniel  has  been  set  up  in  this  day 
and  age  of  the  world?"  Why,  if 
that  be  the  case,  didn't  this  event 
attract  world-wide  attention?  Did 
it  not  create  a  sensation  ?"    No,  it 


did  not.  "How  do  you  account  for 
that?"  Well,  I  think  the  answer 
would  be  that  it  was  overlooked,  be- 
cause the  Lord  works  in  a  very  quiet 
and  logical  way.  He  works  through, 
men,  through  mortal  men,  and  some- 
times it  may  not  appear  to  the 
natural  eye  that  the  Lord  is  doing  it, 
that  His  hand  is  in  it.  Sometimes 
we  can  only  discern  these  things 
spiritually,  by  our  faith,  by  our 
spiritual  sight.  It  was  overlooked, 
possibly,  very  much  as  the  coming 
of  the  Messiah  was  overlooked  by 
the  Jews.  They  expected  that  He 
would  come  with  demonstrations  of 
great  power,  and  of  majesty  and 
might ;  but  instead  of  that  He  came 
into  the  world  in  a  very  humble 
manner.  He  was  born  in  a  manger, 
and  was  known  in  His  country  as 
the  son  of  Joseph  and  Mary,  Joseph 
the  carpenter.  Therefore,  the  Jews 
did  not  perceive  that  He  was  the 
Savior.  Thev  rejected  and  crucified 
Him. 

So  with  reference  to  this  great 
latter-day  kingdom.  The  stranger 
might  then  ask,  very  consistently, 
"If  that  be  the  case  will  you  kindly 
tell  me  how  it  was  established?" 
Well,  it  happened  in  this  way.  Many 
years  ago  a  boy  by  the  name  of 
Joseph  Smith,  who  was  nearing  his 
fifteenth  year — this  was  in  1820 — 
was  seriously  agitated  over  religious 
matters,  due  to  a  great  revival  in 
his  neighborhood.  He  had  a  spirit- 
ual longing ;  he  was  seeking  for  the 
true  church ;  he  had  not  been  able 
to  find  it.  The  contention  was  so 
serious,  and  the  difference  of  opin- 
ion so  great,  that  he  could  not  de- 
termine which  of  all  the  sects  was 
the  true  church,  and  so  he  followed 
the  advice  of  James,  the  Apostle, 
who  said,  "If  any  man  lack  wisdom 
let  him  ask  of  God.  who  giveth  lib- 
erally and  upbraideth  not,  and  it 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


shall  be  given  him."  This  young 
boy  relied  upon  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  He  never  had  prayed 
vocally,  but  he  believed  in  the  scrip- 
tures. He  believed  what  James 
said,  and  thought  he  would  venture. 
So  he  went  out  into  the  woods  to 
pray,  a  mere  stripling  of  a  boy,  and 
had  a  very  wonderful  experience. 
It  can  be  told  much  better  in  his 
own  words  than  I  could  tell  it.  Re- 
member, brethren  and  sisters,  and 
friends  that  these  words,  which  were 
written  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  proph- 
et, and  this  manifestation  was  given 
to  him  at  a  very  youthful  period  of 
his  life.    He  said  : 

"So  in  accordance  with  this,  my  de- 
termination to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to 
the  woods  to  make  the  attempt.  It 
was  on  the  morning  of  a  beautiful, 
clear  day,  early  in  the  spring  of  1820. 
It  was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I 
had  made  such  an  attempt,  for  amidst 
all  my  anxieties  I  had  never,  as  yet, 
made  the  attempt  to  pray  vocally. 

"After  I  had  retired  to  the  place 
where  I  had  previously  designed  to 
go,  having  looked  around  me,  finding 
myself  alone,  I  kneeled  down  and 
began  to  offer  up  the  desires  of  my 
heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely  done  so, 
when  immediately  I  was  seized  upon 
by  some  power  which  entirely  over- 
came me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing 
influence  over  me  as  t  o  bind  my 
tongue,  so  that  I  could  not  speak. 
Thick  darkness  gathered  around  me, 
and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as  if 
I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruc- 
tion. 

"But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call 
upon  God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the 
power  of  this  enemy  which  had  seized 
upon  me,  and  at  the  very  moment 
when  I  was  ready  to  sink  into  despair 
and  abandon  myself  to  destruction — 
not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but  to  the 
power  of  some  actual  bein^  from  the 
unseen  world,  who  had  such  marvel- 
ous power  as  I  had  never  before  felt 
in  any  being — just  at  this  moment  of 
great  alarm,  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light 
exactly  over  my  head,  above  the 
brightness  of  the  sun,  which  descended 
gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

"Tt  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 


myself  delivered  from  the  enemy 
which  held  me  bound.  When  the  light 
rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  personages, 
whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all 
description,  standing  above  me  in  the 
air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  call- 
ing me  by  name,  and  said,  (pointing  to 
the  other),  'This  is  My  beloved  Son, 
hear  Him!' 

"My  object  in  going  to  inquire  of 
the  Lord  was  to  know  which  of  all  the 
sects  was  right,  that  I  might  know 
which  to  join.  No  sonner,  therefore, 
did  I  get  possession  of  myself,  so  as  to 
be  able  to  speak,  than  I  asked  the 
personages  who  stood  above  me  in 
the  light,  which  of  all  the  sects  was 
right,  and  which  I  should  join. 

"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join 
none  of  them,  for  they  were  all 
wrong;  and  the  personage  who  ad- 
dressed me  said  that  all  their  creeds 
were  an  abomination  in  His  sight;  that 
those  professors  were  all  corrupt;  that 
they  draw  near  to  Me  with  their  lips, 
but  their  hearts  are  far  from  Me ;  'they 
teach  for  doctrine  the  commandments 
of  men,  having  a  form  of  godliness, 
but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.'" 

This  was  a  most  remarkable  man- 
ifestation of  God's  goodness  and 
love  to  the  boy  Joseph.  It  seems 
that  the  Father  and  Son  manifested 
themselves  in  person  to  him,  proving 
that  they  were  beings  of  person- 
age ;  so  that  it  would  not  be  neces- 
sary to  go  to  the  scriptures  to  prove 
this  fact,  although  it  could  be  easily 
proven  from  the  scriptures.  He  saw 
with  his  eyes  and  heard  with  his 
ears,  and  the  testimony  he  gives  to 
the  world,  and  transmits  to  us,  is 
that  God  is  a  being  of  body,  parts 
and  passions,  in  the  form  of  man. 
and  that  the  Son  is  the  express 
image  of  the  Father,  but  separate 
and  distinct  from  Him.  What  a 
glorious  revealment  was  this,  what  a 
glorious  new  revelation  to  the  world, 
to  confirm  the  old  revelations  con-  • 
tained  in  the  scriptures. 

Xow,  the  thing  that  I  want  to 
stronglv  emphasize  is  this,  that  al- 
though Joseph  Smith  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  although  he  heard 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


87 


their  voices,  this  did  not  give  him 
authority  to  act  in  their  name,  or  to 
establish  the  Church  of  God,  for  that 
is  exactly  what  he  subsequently  did. 
But  before  he  could  move  in  the 
direction  of  founding  the  Church  of 
God  he  must  have  divine  authority. 
That  came  to  him  later,  as  he  testi- 
fied, then,  on  the  15th  day  of  May, 
in  1829,  the  Angel,  John  the 
Baptist  appeared  to  him  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  laying  his  hands  upon 
their  heads  said:  "Upon  you,  my 
fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Mes- 
siah, I  confer  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, which  holds  the  keys  of  the 
ministering  of  angels,  and  of  the 
gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  and  this  shall  not  again  be 
taken  from  the  earth  until  the  sons 
of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering 
to  the  Lord  in  righteousness." 

Thus  Joseph  Smith  received  the 
authority,  and  the  keys  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  Then  a  little 
later  Peter,  James  and  John,  who 
held  the  Melchizedek,  or  High 
Priesthood,  appeared  and  laid  their 
hands  upon  his  head  ordaining  him 
to  the  apostleship.  Thus  he  received 
the  power  of  the  High  Priesthood, 
as  previously  he  was  clothed  upon 
with  the  power  of  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood. With  this  great  and  glorious 
authority,  he  organized  the  Church 
on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  with 
six  members. 

That  which  followed  has  con- 
firmed the  truth  of  Joseph  Smith's 
testimony  to  the  world,  because  in 
the  eighty-five  years  that  have 
passed  away  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  grown  to  be  a  mighty  people 
in  the  Rocky  Mountains;  and, 
moreover,  they  are  thoroughly  or- 
ganized. Now,  what  do  we  have? 
Why,  we  have  sixty-seven  stakes  of 
Zion.  and  between  -seven  hundred 


and  eight  hundred  wards.  We  have 
Latter-day  Saints,  members  of  the 
Church,  numbering  hundreds  of 
thousands,  growing  out  of  this  very 
small  beginning.  And  what  more 
do  we  have?  Why,  we  have  a 
President  of  the  Church,  a  Prophet 
of  God,  who  stands  in  the  same  rela- 
tion to  the  Church  as  Peter  did  in 
his  day.  He  holds  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  upon  the  earth, 
and,  in  connection  with  his  coun- 
selors, presides  over  the  Church.  We 
have  Twelve  Apostles,  we  have  a 
presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church, 
Seven  Presidents  of  the  first  council 
of  Seventy  ;  and  a  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric. These  constitute  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church.  We  have 
also  presidents  of  stakes,  high  coun- 
cilors, bishops  of  wards  and  their 
counselors,  to  preside  locally  in  the 
Church.  And  what  further  do  we 
have?  Why,  we  have  a  great  body 
of  Priesthood  in  the  Church.  There 
are  11,450  high  priests,  11,112 
seventies,  27,382  elders,  a  total  of 
49,944  men  who  hold  the  Higdi 
Priesthood  of  God.  There  are  8,830 
priests,  10,607  teachers ;  and  22,722 
deacons,  making  42,159  who  hold 
the  Lesser,  or  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, making  a  total  of  92,103  who 
hold  the  Priesthood.  These  men 
have  been  organized  into  quorums 
and  are  being  disciplined  for  war. 
The  weapon  that  has  been  put  into 
their  hands  is  keen  in  cutting;  it  is 
like  a  two-edged  sword,  to  the  divid- 
ing asunder  of  both  joints  and  mar- 
row. This  weapon  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  In  order  that  these 
men  may  become  more  familiar  with 
the  Gospel,  courses  of  study  are 
prepared  for  them,  but  I  want  to  telt 
you,  that  these  courses  of  study  do 
not  completely  fit  men  for  the  great 
conflict.  It  is  the  Spirit  of  God,  the- 
Holy  Ghost,  that  qualifies  them,  anr| 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


these  studies  are  simply  a  guide  to 
help  them  along  in  the  work. 

Now,  let  me  sa)^  that  when  the 
shock  of  battle  comes,  men  will  not 
be  struck  down  and  destroyed,  but 
they  will  be  lifted  up  by  this  great 
army  of  Priesthood,  and  will  be  con- 
verted and  rescued  from  sin  and 
wickedness.  That  is  the  warfare  in 
which  we  are  engaged — to  fight 
spiritual  darkness,  to  fight  against 
immorality,  to  fight  against  in- 
temperance, to  fight  against  dis- 
honesty, evil-speaking  and  strife,  to 
fight  against  the  conflict  between 
capital  and  labor.  It  is  intended  that 
with  this  weapon  they  shall  correct 
every  evil  in  the  world,  and  bring 
peace  and  happiness  to  our  Father's 
children,  for  our  motto  is.  Peace  on 
earth  and  good  will  to  men. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  the 
brethren  particularly,  remember  the 
mark  of  your  high  calling.  May  the 
Lord  bless  you  and  help  you  to  do 
your  duty,  help  yon  to  give  proper 
attention  to  the  Priesthood,  and 
thereby  avail  yourselves  of  every 
opportunity  to  prepare  for  the  battle 
of  the  great  God.  I  humbly  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

Essentiality  of  revelation  from  God  to 
man — Comprehension  of  our  Arti- 
cles of  Faith — Strange  declaration 
of  prosecuting  attorney — Inspira- 
tion is  revelation — "Billy"  Sunday's 
"conversions" — Unreasonable  criti- 
cism defeats  itself — True  history 
•demonstrates  Joseph  Smith's  in- 
spiration. 

In  the  beautiful  prayer  that  was 
offered  in  the  opening  of  this,  the 
eighty-fifth  annual  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  Brother  McMurrin 
asked  that  the  revelation  of  the  mind 
and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  be 


given  to  the  First  Presidency,  and 
that  the  spirit  of  inspiration  might 
be  given  to  those  who  speak  to  the 
people  during  this  conference.  The 
prayer  impressed  me,  as  no  doubt 
it  did  others,  and  I  was  reminded  of 
the  fact  that  there  are  few  people  in 
all  the  world  who  believe  that  God 
reveals  Himself  to  man  in  this  day. 
No  one  who  has  received  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  after  baptism  by 
one  holding  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  will  fail  to  know 
that  God  can  reveal,  and  does  reveal 
His  mind  and  will  to  the  members 
of  His  Church.  It  is  ninety-five 
years  since  God  revealed  Himself 
to  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith,  in  the 
way  that  has  been  called  to  your  at- 
tention this  morning  by  Brother 
Clawson,  and  scarcely  could  it  be 
told  better  than  in  the  simple  and 
forceful  words  of  the  Prophet  him- 
self. This  visitation  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son  to  Joseph  Smith  was 
the  opening  of  a  new  dispensation. 
That  wonderful  passage  in  the 
Epistle  of  James:  "If  any  of  you 
lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God, 
that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and 
upbraideth  not :  and  it  shall  be  given 
him,"  was  the  passage  in  the  Bible 
that  impelled  the  boy  to  action.  It 
was  because  of  his  faith,  his  confi- 
dence that  there  was  a  God,  that  he 
retired  to  the  grove  and  pleaded 
with  the  Father  to  know  his  will 
concerning  the  churches  organized 
at  that  time  in  the  world.  From 
that  moment  on,  the  heavens  were 
opened  unto  him,  not  sealed  to  the 
children  of  God  as  was  universally 
preached,  but  on  the  contrary  it  was 
evident  that  God  had  as  much  inter- 
est in  the  people,  and  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  His  Church  in  this  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
as  He  ever  had  in  any  dispensation 
from  the  beginning  of  the  world. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


89 


Revelation,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  a  fundamental  principle  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We 
cannot    deny   it   unless    we  deny 
"Mormonism,"  so-called  itself.  If 
Joseph  Smith  did  not  receive  a  rev- 
elation  from  God,  and  many  of 
them,  and  if  heavenly  personages 
did  not  appear  to  him  and  others, 
"Mormonism"  would  have  failed  be- 
fore this.    I  shall  never,  I  hope,  get 
tired  of  testifying  that  God  did  ap- 
pear to  Joseph  Smith,  that  He  has 
established  His  Church  in  this  the 
last  dispensation,  never  more  to  be 
thrown  down  or  given  to  another 
people.   There  will  always  be  a  dif- 
ference in  the  spirit  of  the  people 
who  believe  in  this  great  principle, 
there  will  always  be  a  difference  in 
their  lives,  as  compared  with  those 
people  who  do  not  believe  it,  and 
who  claim  that  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  God  revealing  Himself  to 
man.    The  ninth  of  our  Articles  of 
Faith  states  that,  "We  believe  all 
that  God  has  revealed,  all  that  He 
does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe  that 
He  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and 
important  things  pertaining  to  the 
kingdom  of  God." 

Very  often  I  have  given  strangers 
a  card  on  which  was  printed  the 
thirteen  Articles  of  Faith,  and  how 
often  have  I  had  them  say  to  me, 
"There  is  nothing  particularly  strik- 
ing in  the  articles ;  the  great  body 
of  Christian  people  believe  in  the 
principles  that  are  announced  in  the 
articles,  with  the  exceptions  of  one, 
perhaps,"  the  one  I  have  just 
quoted  to  you.  But  I  want  to  say 
to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
there  are  others  of  the  Articles  of 
Faith  that  they  do  not  believe  in,  or 
at  least  do  not  comprehend  or  under- 
stand their  full  meaning.  The  first 
one  is:  "We  believe  in  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son, 


Jesus    Christ,    and    in    the  Holy 
Ghost."    I  take  it  for  granted  that 
nearly  every  one  in  this  gathering 
today  was  present  yesterday  when 
our  belief  in  God,  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  Holy  Ghost  was  so 
plainly  portrayed,  and  I  believe  with 
all  my  heart  and  soul,  the  doctrines 
taught  by  Brother  Penrose.  When 
strangers  have  said,  "We  believe  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father,"  I  have 
stated,  "Yes,  as  far  as  you  under- 
stand Him;  but  our  idea,  our  con- 
ception of  God,  leads  us  to  believe 
He  is  entirely  a  different  God  from 
the  one  in  whom  you  believe,  whom, 
you  say,  is  a  god  without  body' 
parts  or  passions."   I  am  not  going 
to  take  the  time  of  the  brethren 
and  sisters,  at  this  morning's  service 
to  discuss  this  question,  but  I  simply 
say,  with  you,  that  the  God  whom 
we  worship  has  passed  through  all 
the  experience  that  we  are  now  pass- 
ing through.     He   is  an  exalted 
being,  a  personality,  and  I  predict 
the  time  will  come  when,  instead  of 
a  handful  of  people  believing  in  the 
personality  of  God,  the  great  bodv 
of  the  people  of  the  world  will  ac- 
knowledge that  fact. 

Perhaps  the  question  of  revela- 
tion can  be  stated  in  no  plainer  way, 
conveying  the  sentiment  of  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  people  of  this 
country,  than  was  conveyed  in  the 
statement  of  Mr.  Taylor,  who  prose- 
cuted what  is  known  as  "the  Smoot 
case,"  with  a  view  of  expelling  me 
from  the  Senate  of  the  United 
States.  In  his  summing  up  of  the 
testimony  and  telling  why  I  should 
be  expelled  from  that  body,  he  made 
this  statement: 

"Several  hundred  thousand  sincere 
men  and  women  have  believed  and 
now  believe,  as  they  believe  in  their 
own.  existence,  that  Joseph  Smith,  Jr 
received  revelations  direct  from  God-' 


9<) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  if  any  one  ever  believed  that,  we 
must  assume  that  Senator  Smoot  be- 
believes  it. 

"Now,  a  senator  of  the  United 
States  might  believe  anything  else  in 
the  world  but  that,  and  not  be  inel- 
igible to  a  seat  in  the  body  of  which 
he  belongs.  He  might  believe  in 
polygamy,  he  might  believe  that 
murder  was  commendable,  he  might 
deny  the  propriety  of  a  rule  of  life,  of 
all  the  ten  commandments,  he  might 
believe  in  the  sacrifice  of  human  life, 
he  might  believe  in  no  God  or  in  a 
thousand  gods;  he  might  be  Jew  or 
Gentile,  Mohammedan  or  Buddhist, 
atheist  or  pantheist:  he  might  believe 
that  the  world  began  last  year,  and 
would  end  next  year:  but  to  believe, 
with  the  kind  of  conviction  that  Reed 
Smoot  possesses,  that  God  speaks  to 
him,  or  may  speak  to  him,  is  to  admit, 
by  the  inevitable  logic  of  his  convic- 
tion, that  there  is  a  superior  authority 
with  whom  here  and  now  he  may  con- 
verse, and  whose  command  he  can  no 
more  refuse  to  obey  than  he  will  him- 
self not  to  think." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  frankly 
admit  that  T  believe  that  God  can 
speak  to  His  children  in  this  day 
and  dispensation.  Had  I  better  put 
it  stronger,  and  say  that  I  know  that 
He  can?  And  so  do  you  know  it. 
This  is  one  of  the  great  differences 
between  a  man  who  belongs  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  has  received  bap- 
tism by  immersion,  received  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  received  the 
Priesthood,  from  those  that  never 
have  had  those  privileges  and  bless- 
ings. If  we  judge  from  the  Bible 
we  are  perfectly  safe  in  saying  there 
has  never  been  a  dispensation,  from 
Father  Adam  till  the  present,  that 
God  in  establishing  it  has  not  re- 
vealed Himself  to  His  representa- 
tives, to  men  who  have  carried  on 
the  work :  never.  And,  as  the  last 
dispensation  has  been  established, 
we  are  perfectly  safe  in  saying  none 
has  or  will  be  established  without 


God  revealing  Himself  to  those 
chosen  to  accomplish  the  same.  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact  that  I  have  this 
testimony.  I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that 
I  believe  with  all  my  soul  the  testi- 
money  of  the  Prophet,  that  God  the 
Father  spoke  to  him. 

Revelation  is  not  enjoyed  by  the 
members  of  the  Church,  only.  The 
Constitution  of  the  United  States 
was  revealed  from  God ;  and  I  can- 
not help  but  think  if  the  people  of 
the  world  would  study  the  source  of 
great  discoveries  made  for  the  bet- 
terment of  the  children  of  men,  in 
the  sciences  and  in  the  arts,  they 
would  at  once  admit  there  was  some 
power  greater  than  man  that  had 
brought  them  about.  The  wireless 
telegraphy  is  a  marvel  and  a  won- 
der ;  as  well  as  the  telephone,  by 
which  the  human  voice  is  now  car- 
ried from  ocean  to  ocean.  These  in- 
ventions did  not  come  about  through 
man's  wisdom  alone.  The  develop- 
ment of  electricity  and  the  transmis- 
sion of  thousands  of  horsepower 
over  a  small  copper  wire,  for  hun- 
dreds of  miles  away  from  where  the 
power  is  generated,  have  been  made 
possible  through  inspiration  from 
our  Heavenly  Father.  We  need  not 
be  told,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  men  who  have  made  these  great 
discoveries  did  not  receive  inspira- 
tion from  a  greater  source  than  their 
own  brain.  If  a  man  places  himself 
in  a  position  to  receive  revelation  or 
inspiration  from  God,  seeks  it  dili- 
gently and  honestly,  it  is  often 
granted  him,  particularly  if  his  heart 
and  soul  are  in  attune  with  God's 
purposes. 

Yesterday  we  listened  to  some 
most  excellent  sermons :  and  as 
Brother  Penrose  was  speaking  I  ex- 
pressed the  wish  that  such  a  sermon 
could  be  heard  by  every  person  in 
the  world.    I  was  reading  last  night 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


91 


a  description  of  the  revival  meetings 
that  are  being  held  by  "Billy"  Sun- 
day in  the  larg'e  eastern  cities,  and  I 
could  not  help  but  contrast  the  spirit 
of  this  conference,  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne,  and  the  unity 
of  the  people,  with  the  account  given 
of  a  typical  meeting  conducted  by 
that  man.  It  may  be,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  I  have  no  doubt  it 
is  a  fact,  that  something  more  than 
the  delivery  of  prepared  speeches, 
couched  in  words  to  tickle  the  ears 
of  the  people,  must  be  adopted  to 
bring  about  a  testimony  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people  that  there  is 
something  in  Christian  religion.  The 
ministers  of  the  different  denomina- 
tions are  beginning  to  recognize  the 
fact  that  some  change  must  be  made 
in  their  services  in  order  to  create  an 
interest  in  religion.  They  unite  in 
inviting  "Billy"  Sunday  to  come  to 
their  churches  and  stir  up  the  peo- 
ple, get  them  interested  in  the  sub- 
ject of  religion  with  the  hope  that 
they  will  become  identified  with  one 
or  another  of  the  organized 
churches.  But  it  is  my  belief  that 
no  person  converted  in  a  moment  of 
excitement  will  ever  stay  converted 
very  long.  A  knowledge  of  God  is 
necessary  to  a  living  conversion,  and 
it  comes  by  the  still,  small  voice  that 
speaks  to  the  soul,  through  the  in- 
spiration of  God,  and  not  by  getting 
men  to  sign  pledges  in  a  moment  of 
excitement. 

There  may  be  five  or  ten  thousand 
"converted"  by  one  sermon  of  Mr. 
Sunday,  but  how  long  will  they  re- 
main converted?  Most  of  them 
about  as  long  as  it  took  to  convert 
them.  I  do  not  sav  that  he  is  not 
doing  some  good.  I  believe  there  is 
.some  good  accomplished  by  all 
Christian  churches.  I  do  not  think 
it  'is  necessarv  for  a  man  who 
preaches  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 


to  become  an  acrobat  while  deliver- 
ing his  message.  I  don't  believe  that 
such  actions  as  indulged  in  by  Sun- 
day have  a  tendency  to  make  a  man 
think  seriously  of  his  God,  and  the 
step  that  he  is  asked  to  take.  It 
would  not  impress  me  with  the  truth 
of  his  message  to  have  him  jump 
upon  the  velvet-covered  stand  with 
a  view  of  emphasizing  some  point  in 
his  sermon.  Rather  would  I  be  im- 
pressed by  a  testimony  such  as  that 
igiven  this  morning  by  Brother 
Grant.  I  know  it  is  such  that  ap- 
peals to  men's  hearts.  I  know  they 
will  remember  it  longer.  I  also 
know  that  an  appeal  only  to  the 
emotions  of  men,  and  not  to  their 
understanding,  does  not  and  cannot 
effect  a  permanent  conversion.  An 
inward  monitor  called  the  con- 
science is  possessed  by  every  one. 
No  one,  old  or  young,  ever  com- 
mitted a  wrong,  at  least  the  first 
wrong,  but  that  his  conscience  told 
him  it  was  a  wrong,  and  conscience 
acts  as  an  inspiration  to  man  as  long 
as  he  does  not  blunt  it  by  repeated 
violations  of  its  promptings. 

Men  are  trying  hard  to  break 
down  the  fact  that  God  established 
this  Church  by  revelation  through 
Joseph  Smith.  The  writings  of  the 
enemies  of  the  Church  are  intended 
to  create  in  the  minds  of  neople  a 
distrust  in  the  principle  of  revela- 
tion, and  thus  prove  that  no  such 
occurrences  as  related  by  Toseph 
Smith  ever  took  place ;  if  their 
efforts  wer°  successful,  the  Church 
would  cease  to  be  a  factor  in  the 
affairs  of  the  world.  There  is  one 
peculiar  thing,  and  I  have  noticed 
it  not  once  but  many  times,  that  the 
enemies  of  this  people  go  bevond  all 
bounds  of  reason  and  truth  in  their 
criticisms,  so  much  so  that  anv  hon- 
est person  knows,  when  reading 
their  attacks,  that  thev  cannot  be 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


true.  Moderation  in  our  enemies 
would  be  far  more  harmful  to  us 
than  the  extremes  to  which  they  go. 
The  Church  and  its  people  should 
not  be  judged  by  the  words  of  their 
enemies,  no  more  than  the  Church 
was  in  the  days  of  our  Savior.  It  is 
well  to  consider  the  statements  of 
the  historian,  as  well  as  the  testi- 
monies of  our  friends — compare 
them,  study  them,  and  they  will 
prove  the  wisdom,  character  and 
mission  of  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet. 

In  looking  over  some  of  the  his- 
tory written  against  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  I  came  across  the 
statement  made  by  Professor  Hux- 
ley in  his  ''Agnosticism  and  Chris- 
tianity." I  do  not  believe  it  wise 
for  us  to  make  as  part  of  our  ser- 
mons statements  derogatory  to  the 
mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  or  falsify- 
ing the  position  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  am  not  going  to  read  what 
Huxley  records,  other  than  the  con- 
clusion ;  if  any  of  you  desire  to  read 
all  of  his  statement,  untrue  as  it  is, 
you  may  do  so.  After  stating  what 
he  claims  the  Prophet  to  be,  he  says : 
"He  must  have  been  a  man  of  some 
force  of  character,  for  a  consider- 
able number  of  disciples  soon  gath- 
ered around  him."  Yes,  they  gath- 
ered about  him  in  increasing  num- 
bers as  long  as  he  lived.  His  mem- 
ory is  honored,  and  the  Church 
which  he  established,  under  the 
guidance  of  God,  is  growing,  not 
only  in  numbers  but  in  power  in 
many  parts  of  the  world.  You  have 
all  read  what  Josiah  Quincy,  of  the 
class  of  1821,  I  believe,  of  Harvard 
University,  has  said  about  this  re- 
markable man,  and  the  probability 
of  the  future  position  of  this  Church. 
He  certainly  could  not  be  called  a 
friend  to  "Mormonism."     It  cer- 


tainly could  not  be  claimed  that  he 
was  a  defender  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  yet  it  seems  to 
me  when  I  read  his  statement,  that 
what  he  says  will  have  to  be  ad- 
mitted by  all  some  time  in  the  fu- 
ture. I  cannot  help  but  believe  that 
he  too  was  inspired.  Time  forbids 
my  reading  it  to  you.  Men  who 
lived  with  the  Prophet,  slept  with 
him,  men  who  were  willing  to  die 
with  him  in  defending  the  truth, 
ought  to  know  about  his  character 
and  his  labors  and  his  mission ;  and 
who  could  have  expressed  it  better 
than  it  was  expressed  in  the  auto- 
biography of  Parley  P.  Pratt,  giving 
an  account  of  this  wonderful  man 
and  his  mission  upon  the  earth. 
Again,  let  me  ask  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  read  what  President 
Young  said  of  him,  in  the  Journal 
of  Discourses,  telling  of  his  personal 
knowledge  of  the  man  that  God 
chose  to  open  this  dispensation. 

I  could  go  on  and  multiply  such 
testimonies  by  the  hundreds,  but 
time  forbids.  No  matter  how  long 
I  live,  I  never  shall  forget  the  many 
times  that  I  heard  my  father  testify 
of  his  love  and  loyalty  to  that  re- 
markable man,  Joseph  Smith.  He 
believed  in  him  and  in  his  mission, 
and  loved  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
He  was  ready  and  willing,  if  it  be- 
came necessary,  to  sacrifice  his  life 
for  the  cause,  as  have  been  thous- 
ands of  others.  It  is  my  testimony 
to  you  this  day  that  the  world  will 
yet  acknowledge  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  one  of  the  greatest  of  God's  ser- 
vants, that  it  was  he  who  was  or- 
dained to  establish  God's  Church  in 
this  dispensation.  All  must  admit 
the  revelation  that  was  given  before 
the  Church  was  organized,  foretell- 
ing that  a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  was  about  to  come  forth. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


93 


has  been  fulfilled.  Let  the  Prophet 
Joseph  be  judged  by  the  records. 
Xo  one  can  point  to  a  doctrine  re- 
vealed to  him,  and  through  him  to 
the  people,  that  is  in  conflict  with 
the  teachings  of  any  of  the  servants 
of  God  in  any  dispensation  of  this 
world. 

I  rejoice  with  the  brethren  who 
have  preceded  me  in  bearing  my 
testimony  that  God  lives,  and  that 
Jesus  the  Christ  is  the  actual  Son  of 
God ;  that  this  work  is  God's  work, 
and  that  He  has  His  hand  over  it, 
directing  its  affairs.  Men  may  come 
and  men  may  go,  men  may  be  true 
to  the  Church,  and  men  may  be  false 
to  it.  but  it  will  continue  until  it  has 
fulfilled  its  mission  in  the  world. 
When  that  day  comes  there  will  be 
no  more  wars,  there  will  be  a-  com- 
plete understanding  between  men, 
there  will  be  greater  love  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men  for 
one  another,  and  everything  that  has 
been  foretold  by  all  the  prophets  of 
God  will  come  to  pass,  and  that  day 
will  come  in  God's  own  due  time. 
If  we  are  not  receiving  revelations 
from  God  today,  it  is  not  His  fault, 
it  is  the  fault  of  ourselves.  God's 
work  and  His  Church  will  grow  and 
increase  just  as  fast  as  we.  the  mem- 
bers of  it,  are  capable  of  carrying 
out  the  instructions  of  God. 

May  God's  blessings  attend  us  all, 
and  may  His  Holy  Spirit  be  in  the 
habitations  of  the  people ;  and  may 
they  pray  to  Him  with  the  same  con- 
fidence and  in  the  same  spirit  that 
the  boy  Prophet  prayed  ninety-five 
years  ago.  May  we  have  as  much 
faith  and  confidence  in  God  answer- 
ing our  prayers  as  he  had ;  and  all 
the  storms  from  outside,  all  the  op- 
position that  may  come  from  any 
source  on  earth,  never  can  retard  the 
growth  of  the  Church  that  God  has 
established.    My  brethren  and  sis- 


ters, God  bless  you,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 
On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call 
Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 
Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all! 

Elder  William  C.  Parkinson  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

Conference  was  resumed  at  2 
p.  m.,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  lehovah, 
Lead  us  to  the  promised  land, 

We  are  weak,  but  Thou  art  able — 
Hold  us  with  Thv  powerful  hand. 

Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excel- 
lent word! 
What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 
hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 
fled? 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  read  the  an- 
nual report  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Committee,  as  follows : 

auditor's  report. 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 

April  6,  1915. 
Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Dear  Brethren  :  Your  Audit- 
ing Committee  begs  leave  to  report 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  we  have  carefully  audited  the 
books  and  accounts  for  1914  of  the 
Trustee-in -Trust  and  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric  ;  and  have  searchingiy 
examined  the  reports  made  by  the 
various  Stakes,  Wards,  Temples, 
General  Auxiliary  Organizations 
and  all  other  institutions  in  which 
the  Church  is  interested. 

From  such  audit  and  examination 
we  are  pleased  to  be  able  to  report 
that  the  icceipts  and  disbursements 
of  all  Church  funds  are  not  only 
fully  and  accurately  accounted  for, 
but  evidence  a  most  careful  and  de- 
tailed consideration  of  the  numer- 
ous items  which  constantly  demand 
the  attention  of  the  presiding  au- 
thorities. 

We  feel  especially  gratified  in 
noting  the  large  amounts  of  money, 
which  the  liberality  of  the  Saints 
has  enabled  you  to  spend  for  char- 
itable purposes,  for  the  education  of 
our  youth,  and  for  the  promotion  of 
God's  work  on  earth,  both  in  build- 
ing temples  and  meetinghouses  at 
home,  and  in  sustaining  the  vari- 
ous missions  abroad  in  the  world. 

Praying  God  to  continue  to  bless 
you  in  thus  carrying  on  the  work 
of  the  Master,  and  in  the  wise  dis- 
charge of  its  weightv  responsibil- 
ities, we  respectfully  submit  this  re- 
port, and  remain. 

Your  brethren  in  the  Gospel, 

(Signed")    W.  W.  Riter, 
John  C.  Cutler, 
Henry  FT.  Rolapp, 
Joseph  S.  We£ls, 
Heber  Scowcrot, 
Auditing  Committee. 

On  motion,  the  foregoing  was 
accepted,  and  approved,  by  unani- 
mous vote  of  the  congregation. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Faithfulness,  peace,  and  comfort 
among  the  Saints. — Danger  in  ex- 
cessive pleasure-seeking. — Need  for 
the  young  to  be  carefully  guarded. — 
Profiting  by  experiences  of  former 
peoples. — Modesty  in  apparel,  and 
patronage  of  home  industries  advo- 
cated. 

I  sincerely  trust  that  the  few 
moments  I  occupy  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  with  strength  to  make  you 
hear,  and  with  ideas  that  will  be 
fruitful  of  benefit  to  you,  my  dear 
brethren  and  sisters. 

My  heart  has  been  made  glad  dur- 
ing this  conference,  at  the  out-pour- 
ing of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  feel  that  it  has  been  well  for  us  to 
be  together.  In  the  midst  of  the 
turmoil  that  exists  in  the  world  to- 
day, I  have  felt  to  praise  my  Maker 
for  the  peace  and  quiet  'that  reigns 
in  Israel ;  for  the  blessings  that 
abound  in  this  great  land  of  Amer- 
ica ;  that  our  lot  has  been  cast  un- 
der the  folds  of  the  Stars  and 
Stripes,  and  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  saw  fit  to  plant  the  feet  of 
His  people  in  this  grand  intermoun- 
tain  country.  It  is  a  source  of  satis- 
faction and  a  testimony  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work  that  notwith- 
standing the  assaults  of  the  adver- 
sary, and  the  mobbings  and  drivings 
of  the  people,  they  have  kept  the 
faith  and  have  evidenced,  by  right 
living,  their  belief  in  God  and  their 
knowledge  that  He  lives.  As  long 
as  we  are  humble  and  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  there  need 
be  no  anxiety  as  to  the  result.  The 
danger  to  us,  as  it  has  been  to  all 
the  peoples  of  God  upon  the  earth, 
is  from  forsaking  humility,  lacking 
the  charity  that  should  abound  in 
the  hearts  of  men,  and  turning  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


95 


selfishness  and  unrighteousness. 
We  have  been  wonderfully  pros- 
pered as  a  people,  and  in  traveling 
through  the  stakes  of  Zion  I  am 
gratified  to  see  so  many  living  in 
comfortable  homes,  and  that  the 
men  of  our  communities  are  provid- 
ing the  comforts  and  conveniences 
of  life  for  their  families.  I  believe 
this  is  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

Some  times  I  wonder  if  we  will 
err,  if  it  is  possible  that  your  family 
and  mine  will  make  the  mistake  that 
has  been  made  by  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God  in  the  various 
ages  of  the  world,  and  forsake  the 
house  of  worship  for  the  hot^e  of 
pleasure.  How  are  we  going  to  be 
affected,  as  a  people,  by  the  general 
tendency  to  go  to  extremes  in  seek- 
ing amusement  ?  Pleasure-seeking 
increases  among  us  as  the  years  go 
by.  I  can  remember  as  a  child  that 
I  felt  I  was  favored  if  I  could  have 
one  excursion  a  year  out  to  the 
Lake,  and  another  one  to  Calder's 
Park.  If  I  could  go  to  one  or  two 
matinees  in  a  season  I  was  well  sat- 
isfied. That  left  me  plenty  of  time 
to  attend  my  Sabbath  School,  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association,  day 
school,  and  the  other  institutions 
provided  for  my  edification  and  in- 
struction. 

There  is  a  growing  tendency  in 
this  age  to  live  much  more  rapidly. 
Instead  of  thinking  seriously  of  the 
purposes  of  life,  many  of  our  young 
people  are  devoted  to  light  amuse- 
ments. "What  shall  we  do  tomor- 
row for  fun?"  "What  shall  we  do 
next  day  for  pleasure?"  Let's  go 
to  the  moving  picture  show  to- 
night." "Let's  go  to  the  dance  to- 
morrow night."  This  is  the  ten- 
dency of  their  ambition ;  and  I  am 
wondering,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 


if.  as  the  guardians  of  the  children 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  as 
prudent  and  careful  as  we  should  be 
in  safe-guarding,  and  in  encourag- 
ing them  to  engage  in  more  import- 
ant pursuits.  Our  children  are  the 
most  precious  gift  that  our  Father 
bestows  upon  us.  If  we  can  guide 
their  feet  in  the  path-way  of  salva- 
tion, there  will  be  joy  eternal  for 
us  and  for  them  ;  but  if,  by  reason  of 
following  after  the  fashions  of  the 
•world,  or  as  the  prophet  predicted, 
it  should  happen  in  our  clay  that  our 
children  should  be  lovers  of  pleasure 
more  than  lovers  of  God,  it  will  be 
a  sad  time  for  us,  because  those 
v\  ho  pursue  pleasure  in  this  life  to 
excess  are  likely  to  forsake  the  ways 
of  the  Lord.  I  am  concerned  for 
the  youth  of  Israel ;  I  feel  that  we 
yll  should  be,  and  should  assume  the 
duty  of  looking  after  the  Lord's  lit- 
tle ones,  teaching  and  safe-guarding 
them  as  far  as  it  is  possible. 

Some  of  our  people  are  pattern- 
ing after  the  follies  of  the  world, 
and  are  blinded  to  their  danger  until 
it  is  too  late.  Of  the  strangers 
who  come  to  live  in  our  midst,  many 
are  good,  faithful,  honorable  men 
and  women,  then  there  is  another 
class,  who  are  devoted  entirely  to 
making  money,  and  riotous  living, 
and  everything  else  must  take  sec- 
ond place.  x\musement  of  every 
kind,  and  temptation  of  every  kind 
is  thereby  placed  within  the  reach  of 
our  children,  and  the  result  may  be 
in  some  cases  that,  if  we  are  not 
careful,  we  will  lose  some  of  them. 
It  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  always 
be  exemplary  in  our  conduct ;  to 
seek  to  do  good  to  our  fellow  men, 
to  encourage,  not  only  our  own  chil- 
dren, but  the  children  of  our 
neighbor  to  works  of  righteousness, 
to  honor  the  Sabbath  Day  and  keep 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


it  holy ;  to  honor  father  and  mother 
and  observe  the  other  command- 
ments that  onr  Heavenly  Father  has 
given  to  us  from  time  to  time.  That 
is  our  privilege — nay,  that  is  our 
duty,  because  the  Lord  has  confer- 
red upon  us  the  priesthood,  and  has 
given  to  us  a  knowledge  that  He 
lives.  Let  us  look  back  a  few  hun- 
dred years  and  judge  of  the  future 
by  the  past.  Let  me  read  just  a  few 
verses  from  the  third  chapter  of 
Isaiah,  of  what  the  prophet  of  God 
foresaw  among  the  people  who 
should  live  after  him.    He  says : 

"Moreover  the  Lord  saith.  Because 
the  daughters  of  Zion  are  haughty,  and 
walk  with  stretched  forth  necks  and 
wanton  eyes,  walking  and  mincing  as 
they  go,  and  making  a  tinkling  with 
their  feet; 

"Therefore  the  Lord  will  smite  with 
a  scab  the  crown  of  the  head  of  the 
daughters  of  Zion,  and  the  Lord  will 
discover  their  secret  parts. 

"In  that  day  the  Lord  will  take  away 
the  bravery  of  their  tinkling  orna- 
ments about  their  feet,  and  their  cauls, 
and  their  round  tires  like  the  moon, 

"The  chains,  and  the  bracelets,  and 
mufflers, 

"The  bonnets,  and  the  ornaments  of 
the  legs,  and  the  headbands,  and  the 
tablets,  and  the  earrings, 

"The  rings,  and  nose  jewels. 

"The  changeable  suits  of  apparel, 
and  the  mantles,  and  the  wimples,  and 
the  crisping  pins, 

"The  glasses,  and  the  fine  linen,  and 
the  hoods,  and  the  veils. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  r.ass,  that  in- 
stead of  sweet  smell  there  shall  be 
stink;  and  instead  of  a  girdle  a  rent; 
and  instead  of  well  set  hair,  baldness; 
and  instead  of  a  stomacher  a  girdiner 
of  sackcloth;  and  burning  instead  of 
beauty. 

"Thy  men  shall  fall  hv  the  sword 
and  thy  mighty  in  the  war. 

"And  her  gates  shall  lament  and 
mourn;  and  she  being  desolate  shall 
sit  upon  the  ground." 

If  the  prophet  had  lived  in  our 
clay,  could    we    better  understand 


some  of  the  terms  he  has  used?  It 
would  almost  seem  that  some  of  the 
things  referred  to  are  the  ornaments 
of  the  present.  I  wonder,  as  I  look 
back  to  the  time  that  is  past  and  see 
the  destruction  that  did  come  upon 
some  of  those  whom  the  Lord 
warned  through  His  servants,  if  we 
cannot  with  profit  remember  the 
past,  and  teach  and  guide  our  chil- 
dren to  avoid  similar  excesses  and 
the  sorrow  that  follows. 

I  find  also  something  else  in  the 
word  of  the  Lord  contained  in  the 
fifth  chapter  of  Alma.  He  had  been 
instructing  the  people  with  refer- 
ence to  their  duties  and  he  strove  to 
bless  them  by  teaching  what  the 
Lord  would  have  them  know ;  he 
was  advising  those  whose  ancestors 
had  been  miraculously  guided  across 
the  mighty  ocean  to  a  land  of  prom- 
ise. Being  a  prophet,  he  was  teach- 
ing under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  He  was  evi- 
dently fearful  of  the  result  of  the 
prosperity  of  the  people  and  desired 
to  save  them  from  threatened  dan- 
ger, and  these  are  a  few  of  the 
words  that  he  spoke :  "Yea,  can  ye 
be  puffed  up  in  the  pride  of  your 
hearts?  Yea,  will  ye  still  persist  in 
the  wearing  of  costly  apparel  and 
setting  your  hearts  upon  the  vain 
things  of  the  world,  upon  your 
riches?"  Those  are  Alma's  words 
to  the  people  who  dwelt  upon  this 
western  land,  those  who  had  been 
blessed  in  a  remarkable  way.  I 
would  call  your  attention  to  the  final 
destruction  to  that  people.  They 
were  blessed  of  the  Lord ;  even  the 
Savior  Himself  visited  and  minis- 
tered unto  them,  they  saw  Him  and 
heard  His  voice,  and  for  two  hun- 
dred years  afterward  they  were  a 
righteous  people.  They  were  an  in- 
telligent people,  too,  and  highly  civ- 
ilized, but  they  transgressed,  and  de- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


97 


struction  followed.  Look  at  the 
scattered  bands  of  Lamanites  that 
are  in  this  land  of  ours  today,  and 
realize  the  pinnacle  from  which 
they  fell  by  reason  of  disobedience 
to  the  commandments  of  God 
through  his  prophet.  It  is  well  for 
us  to  remember  these  things  be- 
cause the  same  cause  will  produce 
the  same  effect. 

In  our  day  the  Lord  has  cau- 
tioned us  again.  The  forty-second 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants contains  this  admonition  to 
the  Church.  This  doesn't  refer  to 
the  time  of  Isaiah  nor  to  the  time 
of  Alma,  but  comes  right  down  to 
the  day  in  which  we  live.  Through 
His  prophets  He  admonishes  us 
with  reference  to  our  duties,  and 
among  the  things  He  says  are  these  : 
"And  again,  thou  shalt  not  be  proud 
in  thy  heart ;  let  all  thy  garments  be 
plain,  and  their  beauty  the  beauty 
of  the  work  of  thine  own  hands." 
What  a  splendid  thing  to  contem- 
plate in  our  community.  I  would 
like  to  read  that  again.  This  is  what 
the  Lord  advises  :  "Let  all  thy  gar- 
ments be  plain,  and  their  beauty  the 
beauty  of  the  work  of  thine  own 
hands." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
think  that  is  worthy  of  our  consid- 
eration. When  discussing  the  high 
cost  of  living,  examine  your  own 
household,  and  I  am  talking  to  my- 
self while  I  talk  to  you.  Am  I  in- 
creasing the  cost  of  living  by  extrav- 
agance, or  am  I  teaching  my  fam- 
ily to  make  the  garments  they  wear  ? 
Are  we  using  the  materials  that  are 
at  hand,  or  are  we  sending  across 
the  ocean  to  bring  from  the  nations 
afar  expensive  things  for  the  adorn- 
ment of  our  persons?  Right  here 
in  our  own  community  there  are 
those  who  prefer  articles  manufac- 
tured in  distant  lands,  when  right  in 


our  own  neighborhood  industries 
are  struggling  for  existence,  that 
would  do  well  if  we  would  patronize 
them,  and  employment  would  be 
furnished  many  hands  now  idle. 
Our  factories  can  produce  prac- 
tically all  the  things  that  we  need, 
and  they  should  be  sustained  by  us. 
That  is  self-preservation,  for  we 
would  keep  our  money  at  home  and 
employ  our  own  people. 

Now,  I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  this  is  worth  thinking 
about.  Look  at  the  clothing  worn 
by  employes  in  offices  and  stores. 
What  about  the  high  cost  of  living? 
Extravagance  is  responsible  for 
much  of  it.  Many  of  our  young 
men  and  girls  when  they  go  to  their 
daily  employment  are  attired  as  if 
they  were  going  to  a  party.  They 
cannot  afford  it,  but  beggar  them- 
selves to  keep  up  with  the  demands 
of  fashion.  I  believe  we  give  en- 
tirely too  much  attention  to  style, 
rather  than  to  the  things  that  will 
make  us  God's  children  eternally. 
We  can  afford  to  retrench,  and  I 
recommend  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
the  words  of  our  beloved  President 
along  that  line  spoken  in  this  con- 
ference. Let  us  set  an  example ;  let 
us  live  within  our  means ;  let  us  be 
lenders  instead  of  borrowers ;  let  us 
not  place  our  homes  or  the  lands 
that  produce  our  living  under  mort- 
gages, in  order  that  we  may  ride  in 
fine  conveyances  or  keep  up  with  the 
pace  set  by  our  neighbors  who  may 
be  able  to  afford  it.  Let  us  be  more 
concerned  about  the  adornment  of 
our  minds  that  are  eternal,  rather 
than  adornment  of  our  persons  with 
things  that  are  of  no  lasting  benefit. 
Let  us  keep  the  commandments  of 
God ;  let  us  live  humble,  and  sweet, 
and  pure.  Let  us  not  be  lifted  up  in 
the  pride  of  our  hearts  if  we  have 
been    more    successful    than  our 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


neighbor  financially,  but,  mindful  of 
the  blessings  of  health  and  strength, 
and  the  gift  of  home  and  loved  ones, 
appreciating  the  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  unto 
all  those  that  believe  and  obey  it; 
let  us  evidence  by  loving  kindness 
to  every  child  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  that  we  are  grateful. 

May  the  Lord  add  His  blessing; 
may  we  be  righteous  exemplars ; 
may  His  peace  be  upon  all  Israel. 
May  the  spirit  of  kindness  and  love 
find  its  way  into  the  hearts  of  man- 
kind everywhere,  that  war  may 
cease  and  peace  and  happiness 
abound  in  the  world,  that  from 
shore  to  shore  and  from  pole  to  pole 
the  Gospel  may  be  preached  with- 
out hindrance,  and  all  God's  chil- 
dren be  called  from  the  error  of 
their  way  and  partake  of  the  glor- 
ious blessings  that  we  enjoy  in  the 
valleys  of  these  mountains,  that 
eventually  all  mankind  may  rejoice 
in  keeping  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  and  obtain  eternal  life 
thereby,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

The  Gospel — Tts  Scope,  and  the  Re- 
sponsibility of  those  who  preach  it 
— Spiritual  and  temporal  activities — 
Various  ways  of  preaching — No 
substitute  permissible — Human  the- 
ory versus  divine  revelation — The 
heroism  of  God's  people. 

"Woe  is  unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the 
Gospel." 

So  wrote  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the 
Corinthians.  I  think  I  sense  in 
some  degree  the  weight  of  the  re- 
sponsibility that  Paul  found  himself 
under.  Tt  is  a  responsibility  resting 
upon  any  people  who  have  received 


a  like  commission  from  on  high,  a 
commission  to  preach  the  everlast- 
ing Gospel  That  responsibility  rests 
upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
have  received  the  same  Gospel  that 
Paul  received,  and  are  under  a  simi- 
lar obligation  to  preach  it  in  all  the 
world,  as  a  witness  to  all  nations, 
before  the  end  comes.  There  is 
nothing  so  important,  so  imperative, 
as  the  delivery  of  the  divine  mes- 
sage that  has  been  entrusted  to  us. 

But  what  is  the  Gospel?  Do  we 
mean  by  that  term  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism,  and  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  with  other  principles 
of  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ — do 
we  mean  these,  and  these  alone? 
Is  there  nothing  more  to  the  Gos- 
pel than  the  laws  and  ordinances 
thereof,  and  the  preaching  and  per- 
forming of  the  same  for  the  salva- 
tion of  mankind? 

Last  summer  I  stood  upon  what 
is  called  the  Land  of  Zion — Jack- 
son County,  Missouri,  the  spot  that 
has  been  consecrated  as  the  site  for 
the  City  of  Zion,  the  New  Jerusa- 
lem, and  the  gathering  thereto  of  a 
people  who  shall  be  prepared  for 
the  glorious  coming  of  the  Lord.  I 
stood,  in  a  local  sense,  upon  the 
Land  of  Zion  ;  but  in  a  larger  sense 
T  did  not  need  to  go  to  Jackson 
County,  in  order  to  be  upon  the 
Land  of  Zion.  I  was  standing  upon 
it  here  in  Utah,  before  I  went  down 
to  Missouri.  The  whole  of  Amer- 
ica is  the  Land  of  Zion,  according 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  Even  so,  while  we 
refer  specifically  to  the  Gospel,  in- 
cluding in  that  reference  such  prin- 
ciples as  faith,  repentance,  baptism, 
and  the  laying'  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — while  these, 
in  a  specific  sense,  are  the  Gospel, 
in  a  larger  view  the  Gospel  means 
everything  connected  with  the  work 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


99 


of  the  Lord  in  which  we  are  taking 
part. 

The  very  word  "Gospel"  teaches 
this  truth.  It  springs  from  an 
Anglo-Saxon  term— "Godspell," 
signifying  God-story,  or  the  story 
of  God.  When  we  speak  of  the 
Gospel  in  this  greater  sense,  we 
mean  the  career  of  that  divine  Being 
who  left  His  glorious  throne  in 
heaven  and  descended  upon  this 
planet  to  die  that  man  might 
live,  who  became  the  author  of  sal- 
vation and  the  giver  of  eternal 
glory  to  all  who  would  believe  on 
Him  and  obey  Him.  The  God-story 
includes  the  choosing  of  the  Christ 
in  the  councils  of  eternity,  the  cre- 
ation, and  the  fall  of  Adam  and 
Eve  which  prepared  the  way  before 
the  Savior  and  His  great  uplifting- 
work.  It  includes  His  death  upon 
the  Cross,  and  His  resurrection, 
concerning  which  He  said :  "Be- 
cause I  live  ye  shall  live  also."  It 
includes  all  the  dispensations  of  the 
Gospel  from  the  days  of  Adam  to 
the  present  time.  It  covers  this 
great  and  final  dispensation,  which 
will  gather  to  its  bosom  all  former 
dispensations  of  God's  dealings  with 
man,  and  bind  them  together  in  one 
harmonious  whole.  It  comprises  the 
work  of  Joseph  the  Prophet  and  the 
latter-day  restoration  of  the  Gos- 
pel. It  extends  over  the  future, 
over  the  Millennium  that  is  to  come, 
the  reign  of  universal  peace  and 
good  will,  and  over  the  glorification 
of  our  planet  and  its  conversion  into 
a  heaven,  the  abode  of  the  righteous 
forevermore.  These  are  all  parts  of 
the  great  God-story,  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
criticised  and  even  ridiculed  because 
the  Church  to  which  they  belong  has 
had  so  much  to  do  with  temporal 
things.     Men  have  apostatized  in 


times  past,  and  have  tried  to  justify 
their  defection  from  the  truth  on 
the  plea  that  the  Church  was  en- 
grossed with  temporalities — with 
the  construction  of  canals,  the  build- 
ing of  railroads,  the  extension  of 
telegraphs,  the  founding  of  co-op- 
erative stores,  mills,  and  factories, 
the  institution  and  promotion  of  in- 
dustrial enterprises  of  various  kinds. 
As  if  these  things  had  no  connec- 
tion with  the  work  of  God  and  were 
no  part  of  the  divine  plan  for  the 
building  up  of  His  kingdom.  As  if 
a  desert  could  be  redeemed  by 
prayer  and  prophecy  alone !  As  if 
colonization  and  empire-founding 
could  be  accomplished  merely  by 
sitting  in  meeting  and  singing 
hymns,  or  by  preaching  and  listen- 
ing to  sermons.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  realize  that  the  Gospel  em- 
braces temporal  as  well  as  spiritual 
duties  ;  that  it  is  intended  to  save  the 
souls  of  men ;  and  that  the  soul  is 
not  spirit  alone,  nor  body  alone,  but 
spirit  and  body  combined.  The  two 
priesthoods  under  which  this  Church 
was  organized  and  by  virtue  of 
which  it  carries  on  its  work,  are  an 
object  lesson,  teaching  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  they  are  expected  to 
interest  themselves  in  temporal  af- 
fairs as  well  as  in  spiritual  concerns 
— which,  after  all,  include  the 
temporal,  as  the  greater  includes  the. 
less.  All  God's  commandments  are 
spiritual,  and  as  such  they  cover  all 
things,  the  temporal  as  well  as  the 
spiritual.  Those  same  apostates,  if 
they  were  here  today,  would  com- 
plain about  the  water  reservoirs,  the 
sugar  factories,  the  knitting  works, 
and  the  various  other  enterprises  that 
have  been  carried  on  or  assisted  with 
means  voluntarily  contributed  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  for  the  building 
up  of  Zion.  I  wonder  they  did  not 
grumble  because  our  people  in  early 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


days  found  it  necessary  to  battle 
with  crickets  and  grasshoppers  and 
even  to  fight  Indians,  in  order  to 
save  themselves  from  destruction. 
About  the  only  temporal  activities 
they  did  not  find  fault  with  were 
gold  and  silver  mining,  in  which 
they  themselves  were  engaged. 

Our  missionaries,  our  boys,  our 
fifteen  hundred  to  two  thousand 
striplings  who  go  forth  into  the 
world  to  testify  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  His 
Prophet — they  are  not  the  only  ones 
who  are  preaching  the  Gospel  in 
this  dispensation.  Their  fathers  and 
mothers  who  send  them  means  to 
enable  them  to  travel  from  place  to 
place,  they  are  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel by  the  assistance  thus  rendered 
to  their  sons  in  the  mission  field. 
And  behind  them  also — as  Brother 
Roberts  reminded  us  in  a  recent 
meeting — is  the  great  Church  that 
sends  them  forth — a  vast  spiritual- 
temporal  machine  for  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel,  the  saving  of  souls, 
and  the  preparation  of  the  world 
for  the  Savior's  coming.  Those 
who  receive  these  missionaries  into 
their  .homes,  who  feed  them  and 
help  them  on  their  way,  are  likewise 
preaching  the  Gospel ;  for  it  can 
be  preached  in  many  ways,  and  by 
example  as  well  as  by  precept.  We 
can  all  be  preachers  of  it — can  all 
tell  some  part  of  the  great  story 
of  God  and  the  building  up  of  his 
kingdom.  They  who  pay  tithes  and 
offerings  or  otherwise  contribute  to 
the  revenues  of  the  Church,  are 
helping  to  proclaim  the  message  of 
salvation.  The  larger  view  need 
only  to  be  taken,  and  our  course  is 
vindicated,  whether  it  deals  with 
things  temporal  or  things  spiritual. 
There  is  a  work  for  every  man,  wo- 
man and  child  in  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel,  and  woe  unto  those  who 


have  had  this  commission  put  upon 
them,  if  they  neglect  it!  We  need 
not  worry  about  temporalities ;  all 
we  need  concern  ourselves  over,  is 
whether  we  are  doing  our  duty 
where  God  has  placed  us,  and  hold- 
ing first  in  our  hearts  the  interests 
of  His  work.  Never  aggrandize 
yourselves  at  the  expense  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

We  cannot  safely  substitute  any- 
thing for  the  Gospel.  We  have  no 
right  to  take  the  theories  of  men. 
however  scholarly,  however  learned, 
and  set  them  up  as  a  standard,  and 
try  to  make  the  Gospel  bow  down 
to  them ;  making  of  them  an  iron 
bedstead  upon  which  God's  truth,  if 
not  long  enough,  must  be  stretched 
out,  or  if  too  long,  must  be  chopped 
off — anything  to  make  it  fit  into  the 
system  of  men's  thoughts  and  the- 
ories !  On  the  contrary,  we  should 
hold  up  the  Gospel  as  the  standard 
of  truth,  and  measure  thereby  the 
theories  and  opinions  of  men.  What 
God  has  revealed,  what  the  prophets 
have  spoken,  what  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  proclaim  when  inspired 
by  the  Holy  Ghost,  can  be  de- 
pended upon,  for  these  are  the  ut- 
terances of  a  spirit  that  cannot  lie 
and  that  does  not  make  mistakes  ; 
while  the  teachings  of  men  are  often 
based  upon  sophistry  and  founded 
upon  false  reasoning.  Uninspired 
men  are  prone  to  judge  by  outward 
appearances,  and  to  allow  prejudice 
and  plausibilities  to  usurp  the  place 
of  divine  truth  as  God  has  made  it 
known. 

The  Savior  declared  :  "This  gos- 
pel of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto 
all  nations ;  and  then  shall  the  end 
come."  And  He  gave,  as  one  of  the 
signs  of  His  second  coming,  "wars 
and  rumors  of  wars,"  which  He  said 
"must    come    to    pass."  Joseph 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


101 


Smith  supplemented  this  divine  pre- 
diction with  the  prophecy  that  war 
would  be  "poured  out  upon  all  na- 
tions ;"  the  Lord  declared  through 
him  that  those  who  gathered  to  Zion 
from  the  various  nations  would  be 
the  only  people  under  the  whole 
heaven  that  would  not  be  at  war  one 
with  another,  and  that  they  who 
would  not  take  up  the  sword  against 
their  neighbor  must  needs  flee  unto 
Zion  for  safety.  But  last  summer, 
as  I  am  told — for  I  was  not  present 
— but  I  am  informed  that  a  learned 
gentleman,  not  of  our  faith,  though 
a  very  estimable  man,  a  scholar,  a 
philosopher,  a  good  and  wise  teach- 
er, stood  up  in  Salt  Lake  City  and 
declared  it  to  be  his  conviction  that 
there  could  not  be  another  great 
war  upon  this  earth.  The  peoples 
of  the  world  were  too  refined,  too 
civilized,  too  cultured,  to  permit  or 
tolerate  anything  of  the  kind ;  the 
financiers  would  not  stand  for  it, 
would  not  furnish  the  "sinews  of 
war,"  would,  not  finance  the  armies 
and  the  military  movements,  and 
consequently  such  a  war  could  not 
be.  Since  then  the  greatest  hell  of 
conflict  that  the  world  has  ever 
known  has  burst  forth  and  now 
wraps  Europe  in  flames.  In  the 
light  of  such  developments,  which 
are  you  going  to  depend  upon — 
which  can  you  afford  to  tie  to — the 
theories  of  men  or  the  revelations 
of  Almighty  God? 

What  more  eloquent  preaching  of 
the  Gospel  has  there  ever  been,  in 
this  or  any  previous  age,  than  the 
great  gathering  movement  which 
has  been  going  on  since  Joseph 
Smith  lifted  up  the  standard  of  the 
restored  Gospel  in  this  dispensa- 
tion? There  is  no  more  eloquent 
preaching  than  when  men  and 
women  will  forsake  their  native 
land,   their   homes,   their  parents. 


their  children,  their  material  posr 
sessions — every  earthly  thing,  and 
cross  the  stormy  ocean,  the  heated 
plains,  the  frosty  mountains,  many 
of  them  laying  down  their  lives,  to 
be  buried  in  lonely  graves  by  the 
wayside  ;  pulling  hand  carts,  wading 
rivers,  crossing  deserts,  climbing 
mountains,  and  settling  in  a  barren 
waste — all  for  what?  Was  it  for 
gold  and  silver,  houses  and  lands, 
flocks  and  herds,  and  the  betterment 
of  their  temporal  condition?  Was 
it  for  the  honors  of  men  and  the  ap- 
plause of  the  world  that  they  did 
these  things  ?  No,  it  was  because 
they  loved  God  and  wanted  to  build 
up  His  kingdom.  They  had  heard 
the  voice  of  the  Shepherd;  they 
were'  His  sheep,  and  a  stranger 
they  would  not  follow.  Yet  these 
people,  our  grandfathers  and 
grandmothers,  our  parents,  who 
came  from  Scandinavia,  from 
Germany,  from  Switzerland,  from 
England,  Scotland,  and  Wales, 
from  Australia  and  the  islands  of 
the  sea,  from  Canada  and  the 
States  of  the  Union,  braving  every 
hardship,  facing  every  peril,  laying 
their  all  upon  the  altar,  coming  out 
and  fighting  for  God  and  His  divine 
purpose — they  are  called  by  some 
"the  offscourings  of  the  earth,"  "the 
scum  of  creation!"  Perhaps  it  is 
because  they  "came  out  on  top !" 
(Laughter.)  But  cream  also  rises, 
and  if  I  were  asked  to  characterize 
and  describe  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  made  such  sacrifices,  I 
would  say  they  are  the  cream  of 
God's  creation — the  heroes  and  the 
heroines  of  modern  times.  There  is 
no  more  eloquent  preaching  of  the 
gospel  than  is  found  in  their  toils 
and  privations,  in  their  struggles 
and  achievements. 

All  men  will  not  receive  the  Gos- 
pel.   Some  hate  the  truth,  and  turn 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


from  it  instinctively.  A  man  who 
is  wallowing  in  sensuality,  giving 
himself  up  to  the  gratification  of  his 
base  appetities  and  desires,  he  does 
not  love  the  person  who  comes  to 
him  and  warns  him  to  stop  these 
evil  practices ;  he  hates  him — hates 
him  for  the  message  that  he  bears, 
for  he  wants  to  be  let  alone  to  con- 
tinue his  wallowing  in  the  mire. 
Such  men  will  not  receive  the  truth 
— unless  God  puts  His  Spirit  into 
their  hearts ;  for  after  all  men  are 
not  converted  by  preaching,  nor  by 
anything  else  than  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  Some  people  hate  the  truth, 
and  love  darkness  rather  than  light, 
"because  their  deeds  are  evil." 

There  are  others  who  are  clean 
of  conduct,  and  who  love  the  truth, 
or  would  love  it  if  they  could  only 
see  it.  But  they  are  spiritually  blind. 
They  have  listened  to  lies  and  slan- 
ders about  this  work,  until  they  are 
filled  with  prejudice  and  cannot  see 
clearly.  We  are  surrounded  by  such 
people  here  in  Salt  Lake  City  and 
elsewhere,  and  we  must  be  patient 
with  them.  President  Smith  says 
that  he  can  love  any  honest  man,  no 
matter  how  much  he  differs  from 
him  in  opinion.  We  can  all  afford 
to  follow  that  example,  and  be  pa- 
tient and  kind  and  forbearing  to 
those  who  do  not  see  just  as  we  see. 

There  are  still  others,  who  love 
the  truth  and  who  recognize  it,  but 
they  dare  not  espouse  it ;  they  are 
afraid  of  the  social  consequences. 
This  whole  broad  land,  this  whole 
broad  world  is  sprinkled  with  such 
people.  Our  boys  meet  them,  and 
our  girls,  not  only  in  the  mission 
field,  but  in  the  colleges  and  univer- 
sities of  East  and  West.  When  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  are  pre- 
sented to  them  they  say,  in  surprise 
and  astonishment:  "Is  that  'Mor- 
monisrn?"  I  never  dreamed  it.  Why, 


that  is  true — I  believe  it  with  all  my 
heart."  And  the  tears  spring  to 
their  eyes  as  they  acknowledge  it. 
But  they  don't  come  out  in  the  open 
and  fight  for  it.  Why  not?  Judge 
ye.  Brother  Smoot  truly  told  us 
that  the  crying  evil  of  this  genera- 
tion is  moral  cowardice. 

"They  are  slaves  who  fear  to  speak 
For  the  fallen  and  the  weak; 
They  are  slaves  who  will  not  choose 
Hatred,  scoffing  and  abuse, 
Rather  than  in  silence  shrink 
From    the    truth    thfey    needs  must 
think; 

They  are  slaves  who  dare  not  be 
In  the  right  with  two  or  three." 

I  thank  God  that  I  belong  to  a 
people  who  not  only  love  the  truth, 
but  who  recognized  it  when  it  came 
to  them  and  were  not  ashamed  to 
stoop  and  pick  up  the  diamond  from 
the  dust.  ''Truth  is  truth,  where'er 
'tis  found,"  and  a  diamond  is  a  dia- 
mond, whether  it  sparkle  in  the  dust 
at  your  feet  or  glitter  in  the  diadem 
of  a  queen.  I  thank  God  that  I  am 
numbered  among  a  people — that  I 
am  descended  from  parents  and 
grandparents  who  not  only  saw  the 
truth,  and  loved  it,  but  also  dared  to 
come  out  and  fight  for  it  and  suffer 
for  it.  "Scum  of  creation,"  for- 
sooth !  Where,  then,  will  you  find 
your  heroes  and  heroines? 

Some  day  "Mormonism"  will  be 
popular  ;  the  whole  world  will  follow- 
after  it,  shouting  its  praises  and  eu- 
logizing those  who  were  brave 
enough  to  befriend  it  in  the  days  of 
its  obscurity.  There  will  be  no  lack 
of  friends  and  followers  in  that  day  ; 
but  now  is  the  accepted  time,  when 
the  world  is  being  tested,  to  see 
whether  it  will  befriend  the  truth  in 
its  poverty,  and  without  waiting  for 
it  to  become  popular  before  bowing 
down  to  it  and  rendering  the  hom- 
age that  is  its  due. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 


103 


"Then  to  side  with  truth  is  noble 

When  we  share  her  wretched  crust, 
Ere  her  cause  bring  fame  and  profit, 

And  'tis  prosperous  to  be  just; 
Then  it  is  the  brave  man  chooses, 

Wrhile  the  coward  stands  aside, 
Doubting  in  his  abject  spirit, 

Till  his  Lord  is  crucified, 
And  the  multitude  make  virtue 

Of  the  faith  they  had  denied." 

May  God  keep  us  steadfast  in  the 
truth,  and  help  us  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel and  discharge  the  great  respon- 
sibility that  rests  upon  us,  the  pro- 
claiming of  the  message  of  salva- 
tion, by  example  as  well  as  by  pre- 
cept, and  may  we  all  endure  faithful 
to  the  end,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  Amen. 

A  duet  entiled,  "Music  of  the 
Pines,"  was  sung  by  Sisters  Lizzie 
Thomas  Edward  and  Agnes  McMil- 
lan Bolto ;  words  and  music  by 
John  Chamberlain. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  M'KAY. 

Mutual  aid  of  Church  members — 
Those  who  give  offerings,  and  ob- 
serve to  fast,  bless  themselves — 
Healthful  effect  of  fasting — Fasting, 
a  means  of  attaining  self-control — If 
each  member  of  Church  donated 
ten  cents  monthly,  all  needs  of  the 
poor  could  be  supplied. 

"Our  people  are  efficient,  prosper- 
ous and  happy,  because  we  are  a 
body  who  aid  One  another  in  the  pro- 
ductive life."  This  expression  from 
a  recent  publication  entitled,  "The 
Religion  worth  having,"  came  to  me 
this  afternoon  as  I  listened  to  my 
brethren  present  the  various  phases 
of  this  great  latter  day  work.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  are  truly  a  people 
who  aid  one  another  in  the  produc- 
tive life,  a  life  that  tends  towards 
the  salvation  of  the  human  being. 
By  that  salvation  I  do  not  mean  just 


a  place  in  the  hereafter  where  all  our 
cares  and  worries  may  cease,  but  a 
salvation  that  applies  to  the  indi- 
vidual, to  the  family  and  to  society 
here  and  now.  Through  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  perfect 
organization  of  the  Church  as  re- 
vealed in  this  dispensation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  we  are  aid- 
ing one  another  spiritually  by  tak- 
ing advantage  of  the  many  oppor- 
tunities for  service  in  the  Church. 
We  are  fostering  brotherhood  by 
activity  and  association  in  priest- 
hood quorums,  in  auxiliary  associa- 
tions and  in  our  social  gatherings 
and  ward  reunions.  We  are  aiding 
the  young  people  in  securing  ivhole- 
some  pleasures,  by  giving  them 
sweet  and  wholesome  enjoyment 
under  the  direction  of  the  priest- 
hood, as  it  serves  particularly  in  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations 
of  the  Church  as  well  as  in  other 
organizations  and  in  the  amuse- 
ments under  the  direction  of  the  au- 
thorities of  the  ward.  The  Church 
is  aiding  in  temporal  matters  and  a 
practical  benefit  is  resulting  to  the 
people  today  through  the  united  ef- 
forts of  the  membership  of  the 
Church.  In  such  ways,  and  many 
others,  the  Church  fosters  the  prac- 
tical things  of  life. 

During  the  few  minutes  that  I 
stand  here  this  afternoon  I  desire 
to  call  attention  to  the  principle 
of  Fast  Offerings,  as  one  of  our 
economic  efforts  toward  aiding  one 
another.  I  mention  it  because  of 
the  fact  that  in  the  report  given  by 
our  president  at  the  opening  of  this 
conference,  it  was  stated  that  $160,- 

000  had  been  appropriated  from  the 
tithing  fund  to  aid  the  worthy  poor. 

1  thought  at  once  of  this  principle 
established  by  revelation  whereby 
all  the  men  and  women  in  the 
Church  may  not  only  benefit  those. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


who  are  in  need  of  financial  aid, 
but  by  so  doing  may  bring  blessings 
unto  themselves.  We  are  asked,  as 
a  Church,  to  fast  once  a  month — to 
refrain  from  eating  from  Saturday 
evening  meal  until  Sunday  evening 
meal.  The  requirement  is  that  all 
members  of  the  Church  fast  that 
day,  attend  to  their  meetings,  par- 
ticularly their  sacrament  meeting, 
and  in  accordance  with  the  revela- 
tion of  God,  give  their  oblations, 
render  their  sacraments  and  offer 
their  prayers  to  God.  We  are  asked, 
further,  to  contribute  in  effect  the 
amount  of  those  two  meals  for  the 
benefit  of  the  worthy  poor  in  the 
ward.  No  stated  amount  is  given, 
each  one  is  left  to  give  voluntarily 
that  which  he  believes  he  ought  to 
give,  so  that  the  bishop  may  have 
in  his  hands  sufficient  funds  to  aid 
those  who  may  be  in  need. 

Now,  it  is  a  little,  simple  thing, 
and  at  first  thought  it  does  not  seem 
to  have  much  of  the  power  of  salva- 
tion in  it,  but  like  all  other  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  of 
Christ,  it  is  associated  with  the  fun- 
damental principles  of  life  and  sal- 
vation. That  is  why  I  desire  to  call 
the  attention  of  the  presiding  au- 
thorities who  are  before  me,  as  well 
as  of  all  the  Saints  in  Israel,  to  the 
importance  of  living  up  to  this  re- 
quirement more  closely  in  the  future 
than  they  have  done  in  the  past. 
Let  us  see  what  it  means. 

If  we  contribute  to  the  bishop  the 
value  of  two  meals  once  a  month, 
we  are  certainly  no  poorer  finan- 
cially than  we  would  be  if  we  had 
-consumed  those  meals  as  we  reg- 
ularlv  do.  There  cannot  be  any 
loss  to  our  own  family  in  a  financial 
•way,  and  we  have  given  at  least  a 
mite  towards  alleviation  of  hunger, 
perhaps  distress,  in  some  home  that 
is  less  fortunate,  less  blessed  than 


we.  There  is  no  loss  to  us  finan- 
cially, no  man  is  poorer,  no  man  is 
deprived  of  one  blessing,  no  child 
is  deprived  of  anything  that  he 
would  have  had  if  he  refrained  from 
giving  that  small  contribution. 
Financially  then,  nobody  who  gives 
it  is  any  the  poorer. 

Physically,  we  are  better  off  by 
refraining  from  eating  at  least  once 
a  month  than  we  are  when  we  eat 
regularly  three  meals  a  day.  Time 
will  not  permit  to  go  into  this  phase 
of  the  subject;  but  I  am  just  re- 
minded now  of  having  read  a  few 
days  ago,  the  opinion -of  one  of  our 
leading  athletes  who  in  his  training 
watched  the  effect  of  eating  three 
regular  meals,  then  of  eating  two 
regular  meals  and  finally  of  eating 
one  meal  daily,  regularly,  and  he 
concludes  so  far  as  he  is  concerned 
that  when  he  ate  three  meals  a  day 
he  had  been  eating  too  much,  and 
when  so  doing  he  found  it  neces- 
sary to  fast  at  regular  periods  in 
order  to  maintain  his  vitality  to  the 
standard  possessed  when  he  ate 
more  sparingly.  Physiology  books 
will  give  us  the  same  lesson.  So, 
generally  speaking — each  individ- 
ual must  take  this  for  his  own  good, 
— but  generally  speaking  no  person 
is  injured  in  any  way  by  his  depriv- 
ing himself  of  those  two  meals  on 
Fast  Day,  but  on  the  contrary  he  is 
benefitted  physically. 

There  is  still  another  blessing, 
and  here  I  believe  is  the  most  potent 
factor,  the  most  saving  power  in  this 
Fast  day  requirement.  What  our 
young  people  need,  what  every  man 
and  woman  in  this  world  needs  in 
order  to  keep  himself  or  herself  free 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world,  is  the  power  of  self-mastery. 
Fach  individual  should  studiously 
practice  self-control.  It  does  not 
come  all  -at  once.     Nature  never 


ELDER  DAVID  6.  McKAY 


105 


makes  cash  payments  as  a  whole, 
says  William  George  Jordan.  Her 
payments  are  always  made  in  small 
installments.    Those  who  desire  to 
win   self-mastery  must   do  it  by 
constant  application.      About  the 
only  definite  command,  to  fast  as 
given  in  the  Law,  refers  to  this  prin- 
ciple as  an  ''affliction  of  the  soul," 
It  is  associated  with  spiritual  uplift, 
and  therein  is  one  of  the  greatest 
blessings  that  come  to  those  who 
will  fast  as  God  has  asked  them  to. 
Some  may  say,  "Well,  that  isn't 
much,  I  cannot  see  how  the  refrain- 
ing from  partaking  of  food  once  a 
month  regularly  is  going  to  give  me 
any  self-control."   It  does,  however, 
it  is  one  of  the  best  lessons  that 
adults  as  well  as  children  can  prac- 
tice.   Appetite  is  calling,  there  is  a 
yearning  and  the  natural  tendency  is 
to  yield.    Teach  the  child  to  master 
appetite.    Teach  him,  not  harshly, 
but  kindly,  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  with  the  spirit  in  which  the 
revelation  was  given,  and  you  will 
find  that  in  childhood  these  little  les- 
sons in  abstinence  coming  daily  to 
your  boy.  unconsciously  are  placing 
into  his  little  spirit  power  that  may 
save  him  from  falling  in  disgrace 
sometime  when  he  is  driven  on  by 
the  fire  of  youth  to  the  very  verge  of 
the  precipice  of  destruction.  Then 
is  the  time  that  he  will  need  mastery 
of  self  and  he  will  have  it.  Men 
who  have  studied  this  principle  sug- 
gest that  we  need  to  take  some  such 
lesson  as  this  not  onlv  weeklv  or 
monthly,    but    daily.  '  Mr.  Wm. 
George  Jordan,  savs  in  that  excel- 
lent article,  "The  Kingship  of  Self- 
Control"  : 

_  "Let  us  each  day  do  as  mere  exercises 
in  discipline,  in  moral  gymnastics, 
a  few  facts  that  are  disagreeable  to  us', 
the  doing  of  which  will  help  us  in  in- 
stant action  in  our  hour  of  need.  The 


exercises  may  be  very  simple,  drop- 
ping for  a  time  an  intensely  interest- 
ing book  at  the  most  thrilling  pa^e 
of  the  story,  walking  home  when  one 
is  able,  when  the  desire  is  to  take  a 
street  car;  talking  to  some  disagree- 
able person  and  trying  to  make  the 
conversation  pleasant.      These  dailv 
exercises  in  moral  discipline  will  have 
a   wonderous   tonic   effect   on  man's 
whole  nature.    The  individual  can  at- 
tain self-control  in  great  things  onlv 
through  self-control  in  little  things" 
Unat  is  in  harmony  with  the  sugges- 
tions that  Professor  James  gives  in 
Ins  excellent  article  on  "Habit  "  He 
makes  practically  the  same  point,  by 
saying,]     "Be   systematically  ascetic 
or  heroic  in  little  unnecessary  points- 
do,  every  day  or  two,  something  for 
no  other  reason  than  that  you  would 
rather  not  do  it;  so  that  when  the 
h-our  of  dire  need  draws  nigh  it  may 
nnd  you  not  unnerved  and  untrained 
to  stand  the  test."   He  says  it  is  some- 
thing like  paying  an  insurance,  a  fire 
insurance;  you  may  not  need  it,  but  if 
ever  the  fire  come  you  are  protected 
by    the    small    payments    you  have 
given    "so  it  is"  he  says,  "in  these 
daily  habits  of  concentrated  attention 
energetic  volition  and  self-denial  in  un- 
necessary things.    The  man  will  stand 
like  a  tower  when  everything  rocks 
around  him  and  when  his  softer  fellow 
mortals  are  winnowed  like  chaff  in  the 
blast." 

Don't  think  that  there  is  not  a 
spiritual  significance  in  the  little 
principle  of  fasting.  Don't  think 
parents,  that  you  are  favoring  your 
child  when,  out  of  compassion,  you 
say,  "Oh  give  him  his  breakfast; 
oh  let  us  have  breakfast ;  let  us  have 
dinner;  I  have  the  headache;  the 
little  boy  is  too  young  to  go  with- 
out his  meal,"  and  so  on.  You  don't 
know  what  you  are  doing  by  such 
teaching  as  that.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  the  children  of  our  Church  can 
be  so  taught  this  principle  of  self- 
denial  that  they  will  set  worthy  ex- 
amples to  their  parents  in  the  ob- 
servance of  it.  Your  little  deacons 
particularly — there  is  a  magnificant 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


opportunity  for  teaching  them  one 
way  of  honoring  the  priesthood. 

Now,  what  does  obedience  to  this 
requirement  mean  in  aiding  those 
who  might  be  in  need?  It  means 
that  one  hundred  sixty  thousand 
dollars  need  not  be  taken  from  the 
tithing  fund  because  some  of  us  did 
not  comply  with  the  principle  of 
fast-offerings !  If  you  estimate 
those  two  meals  as  being  worth  only 
five  cents  each — that  is  all,  say  that 
you  are  saving,  by  refraining  from 
eating  those  two  meals,  only  five 
cents  each.  If  you  contribute  that 
amount  as  your  offering  on  fast  day, 
your  bishop  will  have  sufficient 
funds  in  his  hands  to  pay  out  all 
that  he  needed  in  1914  to  support 
his  worthy  poor  and  will  have  as 
much  more  on  hand  towards  help 
for  the  next  year.  Five  cents  a 
meal  for  each  person  is  not  much ; 
surely  we  ought  to  do  that.  This 
would  mean  $1.20  per  capita,  an 
amount  more  than  sufficient  to 
supply  all  the  present  demands  for 
the  worthy  poor  in  our  Church. 
Think  what  it  means  and  particu- 
larly when  we  are  aiding  ourselves 
by  doing  it.  We  are  losing  nothing 
financially ;  we  are  blessing  our- 
selves physically,  and  we  are  gain- 
ing greater  spiritual  power,  to 
withstand  the  temptations  that  we 
meet  in  life :  and  best  of  all,  we  are 
practicing  the  very  essence  of  our 
religion ;  the  true  Christ-spirit  is 
manifest  in  that  little  offering.  You 
know  what  the  Savior  said  when  He 
referred  to  the  time  when  the  Son 
of  Man  shall  come  in  His  Glory: 

"Come  ye,  blessed  of  My  Father, 
inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you; 
for  1  was  an  hungered  and  ye  gave 
Me  meat;  I  was  naked  and  ye  clothed 
Me;  I  was  thirsty  and  ye  gave  Me 
drink;  I  was  sick  and  in  prison  and 
ye  visited  Me;  and  then  they  will  say: 
Lord,  when  saw  we  Thde  hungry  and 


gave  Thee  meat?  or  thirsty  and  gave 
Thee  drink?  or  naked  and  clothed 
Thee?  or  sick  and  in  prison  and  visited 
Thee?  Then  will  He  say  to  them: 
Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  the 
least  of  these  My  brethren  ye  have 
done  it  unto  Me." 

That  is  in  accord  with  the  beauti- 
ful sentiment  expressed  in  the  last 
stanza  of  the  hymn  that  the  prophet 
had  sung  in  Carthage  jail,  just  be- 
fore he  was  martyred.  "A  Poor 
Wayfaring  Man  of  Grief."  You 
remember  how  he  was  hungry, 
thirsty,  beaten,  thrust  into  prison ; 
and  then  at  last,  in  a  moment,  "the 
stranger  started  from  disguise" : 

"The  tokens  in  his  hands  1  knew. 
The  Savior  stood  before  my  eyes; 
He    spake    and    my   poor    name  he 
named, 

Of.  me  thou  hast  not  been  ashamed; 
These  deeds  shall  thy  memorial  be, 
Fear  not,  thou  didst  them  unto  me." 

God  help  us  to  obey  these  prin- 
ciples more  faithfully  in  the  future 
than  we  have  in  the  past,  to  be  ef- 
ficient, prosperous  and  happy  al- 
ways, because  in  the  strictest  sense 
of  the  word  we  do  all  we  can,  by 
obedience  to  the  principles  and  or- 
dinances-of  the  Gospel,  to  aid  one 
another  in  the  productive  life ;  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(  President  of  Southern  States  Mission.) 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord  tells  us  that  we  offend  Him 
when  we  do  not  acknowledge  His 
hand  in  the  events  which  shape  our 
lives.  We  live  in  a  day  of  miracles, 
but  unfortunately  the  hearts  of  the 
people  have  waxed  gross,,  and  their 
ears  dull,  that  they  do  not  perceive 
the  hand  of  the  Almighty  in  the 
events  which  are  transpiring.    I  be- 


ELDER  CHARLEC  A.  CALLIS. 


107 


lieve  that  the  deliverance  of  Wash- 
ington's army  by  the  fog,  when  mis- 
fortune faced  him,  was  miraculous, 
as  was  the  cloud  and  the  pillar  of 
fire  that  came  between  the  fleeing 
Israelites  and  the  pursuing  Egyp- 
tians. Hundreds  of  years  before  the 
coming  of  the  Redeemer  in  the  flesh 
Xephi  uttered  this  splendid  proph- 
ecy :  "In  the  day  that  the  prophecies 
of  Isaiah  shall  be  fulfilled,  men  shall 
know  of  a  surety,  at  the  times  when 
they  shall  come  to  pass."  And  so 
Jesus  said  to  the  people,  "If  any 
man  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether 
it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of 
myself."  Isaiah  predicted  the  com- 
ing of  Jesus,  he  predicted  His  life's 
work ;  and  Peter  having  obeyed  the 
will  of  God  could  say  so  grandly  to 
his  Master,  "Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God."  When 
Jesus  passed  away,  what  power  was 
it  that  upheld  Peter  and  his  fellow 
apostles  in  declaring  and  testifying, 
and  sealing  their  testimony  with 
their  life's  blood  What  power  was 
it  that  called  them  to  adhere  to  this 
testimony?  It  was  the  power  of 
God.  It  was  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  which,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
tells  us,  angels  speak;  therefore  they 
speak  the  truth. 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that 
Isaiah  predicted  the  mission  of 
Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  of  God, 
as  well  as  the  .mission  of  Jesus  the 
Redeemer ;  and  so  the  prophesy  of 
Xephi  holds  good  in  this  case,  too, 
that  men  should  know  of  a  surety 
when  all  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah 
should  be  fulfilled.  So  we  behold 
the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  faithful  unto  death  to 
their  testimony,  speaking  in  the  fear 
of  God,  because  Nephi's  promise 
had  been  richly  fulfilled  in  them,  and 
they  knew  by  the  power  of  God, 


what 

son  }  knew  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
and  sfr  that  this  book  was  translated 
bp1  the  gift  and  power  of  God.  This 
testimony  has  come  to  the  Saints  of 
God,  the  testimony  that  they  do 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
.  God. 

Jesus  said,  speaking-  of  His  sec- 
ond coming:  "And  He  shall  send 
His  angels  with  the  great  sound  of 
a  trumpet ;  and  they  shall  gather  to- 
gether His  elect  from  the  four 
winds,  from  one  end  of  heaven  to 
the  other."  Those  angels  have  come ; 
that  mighty  angel  Moroni  brought 
the  Book  of  Mormon;  and  the 
prophets  of  God  predicted  that  when 
this  book  should  come  forth,  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fullness  of  times, 
the  gathering  of  Israel  from  their 
long  dispersion  would  commence. 
In  the  Kirtland  Temple,  Moses  ap- 
peared unto  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  delivered  unto  him  the 
keys  of  the  gathering,  and  the  peo- 
ple of  God  are  engaged  in  this  great, 
this  noble,  this  mighty  work,  sup- 
ported by  the  knowledge,  by  the 
surety  that  this  work  is  of  God  and 
that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  Look  at  the  ministry  of 
the  elders  in  the  field,  your  sons  and 
daughters,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
Truly  their  ministry  is  a  miracle, 
when  we  contemplate  the  fact  that 
they  are  there  in  the  world  outside, 
you  might  say,  of  the  sphere  of  in- 
fluence which  the  priesthood  wields 
at  home.  Men  have  said  that  the 
elders  belong  to  the  Church  largely, 
because  of  their  fathers  and  their 
mothers,  because  of  the  influence  of 
the  authorities  of  the  Church.  Then 
I  ask,  what  power  sustains  them  in 
the  world  when  surrounded  by 
strangers,  by  enemies  in  many 
cases?  What  power  sustains  them 
in  delivering  their  testimony?  What 


108 


GENERAL^  CONFERENCE. 


power  magnifies  them  in  the-ne 
of  the  people,  and  blesses  them  i 
power  and  influence  in  the  pfeir.  .- 
ing  of  the  Gospel?  It  is  the  power 
of  the  Christ.  Not  long  ago  I  stood 
on  the  streets  of  Ohio  assisting  a 
young  elder  to  hold  an  open-air 
meeting.  As  that  boy,  20  years  old, 
stood  before  that  vast  congregation, 
preaching  the  Gospel,  with  the  love 
of  God  and  innocence  stamped  upon 
his  features,  the  tears  flowed  from 
my  eyes,  and  I  said  to  myself,  would 
to  God  that  his  father  and  mother 
could  look  upon  their  son  at  this 
moment. 

The  spirit,  the  missionary  spirit, 
is  in  this  Church ;  it  is  the  greatest 
spirit  of  all.  Why?  Because  this 
Church  has  a  mission  ;  it  is  the  great 
missionary  in  the  world  to  prepare 
a  people  for  the  second  coming  of 
the  Son  of  God.  Last  fall  the 
Southern  States  Mission  was  hon- 
ored by  the  visit  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith.  President  Charles  W. 
Penrose,  Elders  George  Albert 
Smith  and  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr..  of 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding 
F>ishop,  G.  W.  Nibley.  In  the  great 
cities  of  Memphis.  Chattanooga,  At- 
lanta, and  Jacksonville,  the  people 
turned  out  in  multitudes  to  listen  to 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  Up  to  that 
time  no  general  public  invitation  of 
that  kind  had  been  issued  to  the 
people  of  those  great  cities ;  and 
when  the  President  of  the  Church 
stood  there  and  preached  the  Gos- 
pel to  those  congregations  of  Gen- 
tiles to  men  who  were  prominent  in 
the  business  and  professional  life  of 
those  cities,  to  men  who  stood  high 
in  society  and  in  governmental  af- 
fairs, when  T  heard  the  President  of 
the  Church  and  his  counselor,  and 
the  other  brethren,  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  them  as  missionaries,  in  the 
true  missionary  spirit.  I  felt  to  re- 


joice, because  I  knew  that  God  was 
with  His  servants  and  that  they 
were  delivering  His  message  to  the 
people. 

Talk  about  their  being  something 
in  "Mormonism !"  Why,  the  Gen- 
tiles know  there  is  something  in 
"Mormonism."  If  every  man,  not 
in  the  Church,  who  believes  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
I  say,  if  every  man  who  believes  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God 
would  come  into  the  Church,  the 
membership  of  this  Church  would 
be  added  to  by  tens  of  thousands ; 
for  the  knowledge  that  Joseph  was 
a  prophet  is  deepening  in  the  world, 
it  is  taking  hold  of  the  minds  of 
men.  This  Book  of  Mormon,  with 
the  Bible,  is  confounding  false  doc- 
trine ;  it  is  opening  the  eyes  of  the 
people ;  it  is  causing  those  that 
erred  to  come  to  understanding ;  it  is 
causing  those  that  murmur  to  learn 
doctrine  and  be  blessed  of  the  Lord. 
One  of  our  Southern  statesmen  told 
President  Smith  that  he  had  been  to 
Utah,  he  said:  "President  Smith, 
as  1  surveyed  the  achievements  of 
your  people,  as  I  looked  at  what 
*Mormonism'  had  done  for  the  peo- 
ple, and  what  it  had  done  for  the 
country,  1  felt  that  there  was  power 
in  'Mormonism,'  and  power  for 
good."  My  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  statesman  who  declared  that 
truth  is  only  one  of  many  who  feel 
the  same  way. 

I  rejoice  in  the  glory  of  God.  I 
love  to  see  this  Church  grow  in  in- 
fluence and  in  power.  When  men 
honor  my  leaders,  the  leaders  of  this 
Church,  they  honor  me;  for  as  we 
help  tO  build  up  the  work  of  the 
Lord  we  build  up  ourselves.  This 
people  must  rise  as  a  people,  some 
must  not  pull  down  while  others  lift 
up :  we  must  all  rise  together,  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  and  dis- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 


109 


charge  our  duties.  I  thank  God  for 
this  missionary  spirit.  I  bear  you 
my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  the  authorities  of  this 
Church  have  the  missionary  spirit, 
and  in  that  spirit  this  people  will 
succeed.  In  that  faith  they  will  go 
forth  to  perfection. 

I  beg  of  you,  fathers  and  mothers, 
to  write  good  letters  to  your  sons ; 
write  them  Gospel  letters,  not 
gossip.  Write  them  good  Gospel 
letters,  filled  with  the  spirit,  and 
filled  with  encouragement.  Oh  the 
beautiful  letters  that  come  from  the 
mothers  !  What  splendid  faith  they 
have.  It  happens  once  in  awhile, 
that  an  elder  lays  down  his  life  in 
the  field ;  he  dies  at  his  post  of  duty. 
I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  faith  of  the  mother  rises  to 
heights  of  sublimity.  Her  son,  who 
is  to  his  mother  even  as  the  apple 
of  her  eye,  is  brought  home  to  her 
in  death.  That  mother's  sublime 
faith — it  pierces  the  heavens,  so  to 
speak,  and  she  beholds,  in  her  sor- 
row, the  power  of  God,  and  with  an 
eye  of  faith,  which  all  the  mothers 
of  Israel  have,  she  looks  upon  her 
son,  cold  in  death,  yet  she  knows 
that  God's  rich  promises  in  her  son 
shall  be  fulfilled  in  God's  own  time 
and  in  His  way.    She  knows  that 


what  God  has  begun  in  her  darling 
son  He  will  finish  in  glory,  in  honor, 
and  in  exaltation  ;  for  she  knows  the 
holy  ordinances  by  which  this  may 
be  brought  about. 

I  desire  to  praise  the  Lord  all  the 
days  of  my  life.  I  love  God ;  I  love 
my  brethren ;  I  love  the  people  of 
the  Lord;  for  they  are  the  best 
people  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 

"I'll    praise    my    Maker,    while  I've 
breath, 

And  when  my  voice  is  lost  in  death 
Praise    shall    employ    my  noblest 
powers, 

My  days  of  praise  shall  ne'er  be  past, 
While  life  and  thought  and  being  last 
Or  immortality  endures." 

Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

TheSpirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burn- 
ing! 

The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come 
forth; 

The  visions  and  blessings  of  old  are 
returning, 
And  angels  are  coming  to  visit  the 
earth. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Walter  P.  Monson. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Tues- 
day, April  6th,  at  10  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  was  resumed  in  the 
Tabernacle,  at  10  a.  m.,  Tuesday, 
April  6th ;  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

O  ye  mountains  high,  where  the  clear 
blue  sky- 
Arches  over  the  vales  of  the  free, 
Where  the  pure  breezes  blow  and  the 
clear  streamlets  flow, 
How  I've  longed  to  your  bosom  to 
flee. 

Elder  John  L.  Herrick  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  : 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion ; 

No  longer  as  stFangers  on  earth 

need  we  roam. 
Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 

each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 

will  come. 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

Evidences  that  "a  great  and  marvelous 
work"  has  come  forth — World-wide 
proclamation  of  the  Gospel — Un- 
paralleled gathering  from  all  na- 
tions— Many  millions  yet  to  be 
warned — Saints  should  be  interested 
in  national  welfare — Righteousness 
needed  in  the  nation,  as  in  the 
Church. 

"Now,  behold  a  great  and  marvel- 
ous work  is  about  to  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men.  There- 
fore, O  yet  that  embark  in  the  service 
of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  Him  with 
all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day." 

T  suppose,  my  brethren  and  sis- 


ters, that  the  varied  exercises  of  this 
conference,  the  words  of  inspira- 
tion which  have  been  spoken,  have 
prompted  us  to  think  upon  a  variety 
of  subjects.  There  has  been  some 
outstanding  thought,  perhaps,  in  all 
of  our  minds,  varying  as  the  dif- 
ferent subjects,  all  of  which  are  of 
very  great  importance,  have  been 
treated.  It  has  been  so  with  me. 
From  the  opening  session  of  the 
conference,  when  the  President  of 
the  Church  made  that  splendid  re- 
port of  its  condition,  I  have  been 
thinking  of  these  words  of  the  Lord 
which  I  have  read.  This  revelation 
was  given  more  than  a  year  before 
the  organization  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  Church  had  not  come  into 
existence  as  a  recognized  body.  The 
Book  of  Mormon  had  been  pub- 
lished ;  a  few  men  and  women  had 
been  converted  to  the  truth,  and  to 
the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the 
boy  prophet,  who  had  translated  and 
published  it  to  the  world.  More 
than  a  year  later,  when  the  Church 
was  finally  organized,  there  were  but 
six  persons  present  who  were  recog- 
nized as  participating  in  that  organ- 
ization, that  were  members  of  the 
Church.  The  total  wealth  of  those 
people  combined  was  scarcely  suf- 
ficient to  print  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  offer  it  to  the  world,  and  yet 
upon  that  little  handful  of  men  and 
women  devolved  the  mission  of  pro- 
claiming to  the  world  the  opening 
of  this  Gospel  dispensation,  and  the 
appearance  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son.    Their  mission  was  to  con- 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


Ill 


found  false  doctrine,  to  proclaim 
truth,  and  lay  the  foundations  for 
the  establishment  of  God's  kingdom 
upon  earth. 

I  have  been  looking-  backward 
over  these  eighty-five  years  of  the 
existence  of  the  Church.  I  have 
been  making  some  comparisons.  I 
have  been  asking  myself  the  ques- 
tion, have  these  words  of  the  Lord, 
which  were  spoken  before  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  been  ful- 
filled, -were  they  true?  And  I  re- 
membered that  during  those  eighty- 
five  years,  from  that  little  handful 
of  people  have  come  the  multitude 
who  make  up  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  I  re- 
membered that  the  Gospel  had  been 
preached  in  every  state  of  this 
Union  :  that  it  had  been  preached  in 
Mexico  and  Canada,  and  had  been 
carried  to  South  America ;  that  it 
had  been  preached  in  the  Scandi- 
navian countries  of  northern  Eur- 
ope, where  multitudes  of  men  and 
women,  Israelites  and  heirs  to  the 
Gospel  by  right  of  the  promise,  have 
been  brought  into  the  fold  of  Christ, 
and  numbered  among  the  Saints  of 
God ;  that  it  had  been  preached  in 
Germany,  in  Belgium,  in  Holland, 
in  a  limited  degree  in  France,  in  the 
British  Isles,  and  in  the  Turkish 
Empire :  that  it  had  been  carried  to 
India;  not  much  done  in  China,  but 
has  been  carried  to  the  empire  of 
Japan,  and  to  all  the  Polynesian 
islands  of  the  Pacific.  Many  thou- 
sands of  people  have  believed  and 
obeyed  it ;  inspired  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  they  have  been  gathered 
together  here  in  the  tops  of  the 
mountains.  Driven  from  place  to 
place,  in  poverty,  in  distress,  the 
Church  was  bodily  moved  from  the 
east  and  planted  here  in  these  moun- 
tains, with  the  result  which  we  see 
todav. 


There  are  scores  of  individuals 
in  the  Church  today  each  of  whom 
possess  greater  wealth  than  its  en- 
tire membership  did  at  the  time  that 
these  words  of  the  Lord  were  ut- 
tered. The  Gospel  has  been  preach- 
ed almost  everywhere.  There  is  not, 
I  believe  I  am  safe  in  saying,  in  the 
history  of  the  world,  a  parallel  to  it. 
Greater  multitudes  of  people  may 
have  been  converted  to  the  truth  in 
other  Gospel  dispensations,  but  if 
so,  that  conversion  occurred  in  their 
own  immediate  vicinity  and  neigh- 
borhood. To  have  covered  the  civ- 
ilized world,  to  have  circumnavi- 
gated the  earth,  and  above  all,  to 
have  brought  together  these  peo- 
ple from  different  nations,  planting 
them  in  communities,  strangers  to 
each  other  by  nationality  and  birth, 
and  establish  harmony,  union,  one 
purpose," that  being  the  accomplish- 
ment of  God's  will  in  the  earth,  I 
say  that  no  such  thing  has  ever  been 
undertaken  and  successfully  ac- 
complished before  in  the  world's 
history.  A  great  and  marvelous 
work  was  about  to  come  forth,  and 
I  believe  that  we  are  justified  in 
saying,  not  boasting,  but  in  humility 
before  the  Lord,  and  giving  Him 
credit  for  all  that  has  been  accom- 
plished, that  He  has  vindicated  His 
word,  and  that  a  great  and  marvel- 
ous work  has  been  accomplished 
through  the  ministry  of  His  ser- 
vants, endowed  with  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  as  they  have  gone  out 
from  His  Church,  and  promulgated 
the  truths  of  His  Gospel  in  the 
world. 

So  much  for  the  past.  Now,  when 
we  contemplate  these  conditions, 
these  splendid  results,  are  we  justi- 
fied in  saying  that  we  have  done 
enough,  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
is  finished,  that  there  is  nothing 
more  for  Latter-day  Saints  to  do? 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  believe  that  there  is  no  condition 
so  dangerous,  either  to  an  individ- 
ual, a  community,  or  a  nation,  as 
that  which  leads  him  to  believe  that 
he  has  reached  the  point  where  there 
is  nothing  more  to  do,  nothing  more 
to  be  accomplished,  no  farther 
progress,  no  development ;  that  very 
moment  retrogression  begins.  So 
I  see  before  me,  just  as  I  regard  the 
accomplishments  of  the  past  a  mir- 
acle wrought  by  the  hand  of  God,  as 
I  look  into  the  future  greater  works 
to  be  done,  demanding  our  atten- 
tion, our  energy,  the  exercise  of  our 
faith  and  all  the  power  that  we  can 
get  from  the  Father.  While  it  is 
true  that  the  Gospel  has  thus  been 
generally  preached  in  the  world,  it 
is  also  true  that  but  a  very  small 
proportion  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  have  yet  heard  it,  or  looked 
upon  the  face  of  a  man  bearing  the 
Priesthood,  and  authorized  to  speak 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  this  dis- 
pensation ;  millions  of  people  in  our 
own  country  must  hear  the  truth, 
millions  of  people  in  the  old  world, 
the  empires  of  Russia,  China,  and 
India;  millions  of  people  who  are 
in  Mexico,  Central  and  South  Amer- 
ica must  hear  the  Gospel,  as  we 
have  heard  it. 

One  of  the  great  future  accomp- 
lishments of  this  Church,  and  one 
which  devolves  upon  us,  is  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Re- 
deemer to  the  scattered  remnants  of 
the  House  of  Israel.  I  am  a  be- 
liever in  the  word  of  the  Lord.  I 
believe  the  things  that  are  written 
in  this  book  from  which  T  read,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  believe 
the  promises  of  God  as  they  are  con- 
tained here  in  this  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. What  a  strength  that  book 
has  been  to  me !  How  I  have 
thanked  the  Lord  for  it,  for  it  has 
taught  me  the  better  way  of  life.  It 


deals  plainly  with  the  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel,  teaches  me  my  duty  as 
a  member  of  the  Church,  teaches  me 
my  duty  to  the  state,  teaches  me  my 
duty  to  my  fellow  man,  and  if  the 
things  contained  there  are  true,  just 
as^  certain  as  the  sun  shines  in  yon- 
der heaven,  so  will  the  remnant  who 
have  descended  from  the  men  who 
wrote  it,  be  brought  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of 
the  Redeemer,  come  into  the  Church 
and  be  numbered  with  the  Saints 
of  God.  The  Lord  has  promised  it, 
unconditionally ;  that  is  to  say,  un- 
conditionally except  as  it  depends 
upon  their  repentance,  but  that  they 
will  repent  He  has  told  us  in  the 
most  definite  manner,  and  there  are 
millions  of  them  around  us,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  These  Laman- 
ites,  are  heirs  to  the  promises,  and 
God  has  said,  without  qualification, 
that  He  will  give  this  land  to  them 
for  an  everlasting  inheritance,  that 
they  shall  be,  with  us,  the  builders 
of  the  New  Jerusalem ;  the  powers 
of  heaven  shall  be  among  them,  and 
they  shall  know  the  record  of  their 
fathers  which  has  been  brought  to 
US  through  the  instrumentality  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  could 
read  to  you  from  this  same  book  the 
word  of  the  Lord  in  regard  to  that. 
Perhaps  I  had  better  do  it,  because 
I  like  to  justify  what  I  say.  by  the 
word  of  the  Lord  : 

"Nevertheless,  My  work  shall  go 
forth,  for  inasmuch  as  the  knowledge 
of  a  Savior  has  come  unto  the  world, 
through  the  testimony  of  the  Jews, 
even  so  shall  the  knowledge  of  a 
Savior  come  unto  My  people. 

"And  to  the  Nephites,  and  the 
Jacobites,  and  the  Josephites,  and  the 
Zoramites,  through  the  testimony  of 
their  fathers — 

"And  this  testimony  shall  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  Lamanites,  and 
the  Lemuelites,  and  the  Ishmaelites, 


ELDER  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS. 


113 


who  dwindled  in  unbelief  because  of 
the  iniquity  of  their  fathers,  whom 
the  Lord  has  suffered  to  destroy  their 
brethren,  the  Nephites,  because  of 
their  iniquities  and  their  abomina- 
tions; 

'And  for  this  very  purpose  are  these 
plates  preserved,  which  contain  these 
records,  that  the  promises  of  the 
Lord  might  be  fulfilled  which  He  made 
to  His  people."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  Sec. 
3:16-19.) 

This  also  was  revealed  to  us  be- 
fore the  organization  of  the  Church, 
so  this  great  mission  is  upon  us. 
The  Lord  expects  us  to  perform  it, 
and  He  will  hold  us  responsible  if 
we  shall  fail.  And  that  is  but  a 
small  part  of  our  mission.  Scat- 
tered among  the  nations  of  the  earth 
are  the  house  of  Judah,  the  chosen 
people  of  the  Lord.  How  long  shall 
they  continue,  how  long  shall  they 
suffer,  how  long  shall  they  be  a  hiss 
and  a  by-word  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  because  of  transgres- 
sions of  their  fathers?  This  Book  of 
Mormon,  thank  the  Lord,  gives  them 
hope  also,  and  I  cry  to  the  Lord 
that  He  will  prepare  their  hearts, 
for  the  Redeemer  testifies  here 
that  when  these  things  come  forth 
the  Jews  shall  begin  to  believe,  they 
shall  begin  to  turn  to  Christ  and 
recognize  Him  as  their  'Redeemer, 
the  Messiah.  Just  as  certainly  as 
they  have  been  scattered,  so  will 
the  Lord  gather  them  together 
again,  and  restore  to  them  the  lands 
of  their  possessions,  and  they  shall 
forever  serve  Him  and  honor  Him 
as  their  fathers  did  in  the  begin- 
ning; and  they  must  come  through 
the  efforts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

So  I  say,  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  is  plenty  to  do;  we  are  not  to 
be  at  ease  in  Zion ;  we  are  not  to 
say  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  has 
been  accomplished,  and  that  there 
is  nothing  more  to  do,  and  those 


are  the  very  things  which  the 
prophet,  in  this  Book  of  Mormon, 
warns  us  against,  and  says  that 
some  of  us  will  say;  but  we  must 
continue  to  work.  These  are  the 
things  that  I  see  in  the  future,  that 
are  abroad ;  and  as  we  preach  the 
Gospel  abroad  so  is  it  our  duty  to 
provide  for,  and  assist,  as  we  have 
hitherto  done,  those  of  our  brethren 
and  sisters  who  gather  up  to  Zion 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth,  that 
they,  like  us,  may  become  inde- 
pendent men  and  women.  If  there 
was  nothing  else  in  the  history  of 
the  Church  but  that  one  fact,  tens 
of  thousands  of  people  taken  from 
the  sweat  houses  of  Europe,  where 
they  or  their  children  never  could 
have  become  independent  men  and 
women,  have  been  brought  here, 
planted  upon  this  promised  land, 
where  they  could  become  a  part  of 
it,  owning  it,  claiming  it  as  their 
own,  under  the  permission  of  God 
our  Father,  by  whom  we  hold  all 
things,  and  have  become  independ- 
ent, loyal  citizens  of  this  good  gov- 
ernment of  ours.  That  work  must 
continue.  We  cannot  abandon  it. 
So  it  seems  to  me  that  notwithstand- 
ing the  magnitude  of  the  work 
which  was  before  the  Church  at  the 
time  of  its  inception,  there  is  a 
greater  field  before  us  today  than 
there  ever  has  been  before  in  its  his- 
tory. 

There  are  other  things  for  us  to 
do,  for  our  loyalty  is  not  to  the 
Church  alone.  We  are  here,  we  say, 
under  the  best  government  in  the 
world  and  I  believe  it,  and  thank  the 
Lord  for  it,  a  government,  we  say, 
which  was  established  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  Himself,  and 
I  believe  it ;  we  are  citizens  of  that 
government.  I  never  have  been  able 
to  conceive  that  it  is  possible  for  me 
to  be  an  acceptable  member  of  the 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Church  in  the  sight  of  God,  my 
Father,  except  that  I  am  a  devoted 
supporter  of  my  country  and  its  in- 
stitutions, honoring,  obeying,  and 
sustaining  its  laws,  and  just  as  I 
labor  for  the  spread  of  the  truth, 
just  as  I  seek  to  bring  people  to  a 
knowledge  of  it,  so  is  it  my  duty 
to  labor  for  the  establishment  of 
righteous  government  in  the  land  in 
which  I  live.  The  Church  and  the 
State  are  so  intimately  associated 
that  in  my  mind  I  cannot  separate 
them,  for  I  believe  that  without  the 
State  the  Church  could  accomplish 
little,  and  that  without  the  influence 
of  religion,  those  restraining  influ- 
ences which  come  through  faith  in 
God,  and  acknowledgement  of  our 
Redeemer  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  it  is  at  least  an  excedingly 
difficult  thing  that  good  government 
may  be  established  and  maintained 
in  the  world.  So  T  must  labor  for 
better  citizenship.  Isn't  that  true? 
Justice,  temperance,  and  truth  are 
the  fundamental  doctrines  of  all 
good  government :  and  if  I  see  those 
doctrines  threatened,  is  it  not  my 
duty  to  oppose  their  enemies?  It 
seems  to  me  that  it  is.  Pageants 
may  parade  the  streets,  artists  and 
poets  may  immortalize  freedom  on 
canvass  and  in  verse,  but  unless  the 
things  that  we  do  are  in  harmony 
with  that  which  we  say.  "it  is  like 
sounding  brass  of  a  tinkling  cym- 
bal." And  so  I  say  that  so  long  as 
there  are  in  this  great  nation  of  ours 
men  and  women  who  cry  for  bread, 
who  seek  employment  in  vain,  while 
others  indulge  in  the  extravagant 
accumulation  and  use  of  wealth :  so 
long  as  our  prisons  are  filled  with 
men  and  women  who  defy  the  law, 
and  those  rules  which  are  estab- 
lished for  the  security  of  society;  so 
long  as  men  in  this  free  govern- 
ment shall  deliberately  ignore  and 


defeat  the  will  of  the  people  whom 
they  pretend  to  represent ;  so  long 
as  there  shall  remain  in  this  land  of 
ours  a  single  house  of  assignation, 
where  the  souls  and  bodies  of  wo- 
men are  bartered  for  gold ;  so  long 
as  there  shall  remain  upon  the  op- 
posite sides  of  the  streets  from 
where  houses  of  prayer  are  built, 
chapels  of  the  devil,  which,  with 
open  doors  beckon  your  sons  and 
invite  them  in,  that  they  may  be- 
come drunken  and  corrupted,  their 
bodies  and  souls  endangered ; — I 
say,  so  long  as  these  conditions  con- 
tinue there  is  work  to  do,  for  every 
man  and  woman  who  has  taken  up- 
on him  or  her  the  name  of  the  Re- 
deemer. I  do  not  wish  to  be  re- 
garded as  an  agitator,  I  do  not  wish 
to  be  regarded  as  an  extremist ;  but 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  see 
these  things  as  I  move  about  among 
the  cities  of  this  country,  is  it  my 
duty  to  be  silent,  or  is  it  my  duty, 
as  a  professed  teacher  of  righteous- 
ness, to  call  attention  to  them,  in 
order  that  they  may  be  corrected? 
When  men  sell  their  votes  by  thou- 
sands, and  ambitious  men  buy  them 
in  order  that  they  may  be  magnified 
before  the  people ;  and  attain  to 
those  places  of  trust  where  your 
very  lives  and  liberties  are  at  stake, 
as  occurred  in  the  last  election  in 
one  of  the  greatest  states  of  this  re- 
public, it  seems  to  me  that  there  is 
something  to  do;  and  if  I  see  these 
forces  which  are  making  as  surely 
for  the  disintegration  of  this  gov- 
ernment as  they  ever  made  for  the 
disintegration  of  governments  that 
have  existed  before  it.  \  cannot  re- 
strain the  feeling  which  I  have  that 
it  is  my  duty  to  call  attention  to 
them,  not  to  complain,  but  in  the 
hope  that  seeing  them  we  may  re- 
form. 

Just  the  other  day  a  ship  struck 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


115 


upon  a  rock,  an  uncharted  reef,  off 
the  coast  of  California,  and  was 
wrecked.  No  one  knew  the  rock 
was  there  before,  but  the  captain  of 
the  vessel  knows  it  now ;  he  knew 
when  he  struck  it.  Would  it  be 
proper  for  him  to  go  away  and  say, 
"That  hidden  rock  is  there,  but 
never  mind,  I  won't  say  anything 
about  it,  I  will  just  let  somebody 
else  come  along  and  run  their  ship 
onto  it,  and  be  wrecked  as  I  have 
been?"  No,  he  puts  it  on  the  chart, 
so  that  the  next  mariner  who  comes 
knows  that  he  must  avoid  that  spot. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if 
you  will  read  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
if  you  will  be  admonished  by  the 
prophecies  contained  in  these  books, 
if  you  will  study  the  history  of  the 
nations  that  have  lived  before  you, 
you  will  know  that  there  is  just  one 
thing  that  makes  for  security,  and 
that  thing  is  righteousness  and  truth 
in  the  Church,  in  the  State,  in  busi- 
ness, and  in  the  life  of  every  indi- 
vidual who  pretends  to  serve  his 
people,  or  to  serve  the  Lord.  That 
is  all  that  I  wanted  to  urge,  just 
that  there  be  righteousness,  that 
there  be  integrity,  that  there  be 
honesty.  When  I  see  the  great 
work  which  is  before  us,  and  con- 
trast it  with  the  past,  I  feel  like 
buckling  up  my  belt  one  hole 
shorter,  as  the  Indian  does  when  he 
lacks  a  meal,  and  going  on  with  the 
fight.  The  battle  with  sin  is  real. 
Don't  deceive  yourselves  by  think- 
ing that  the  devil  is  dead.  He  is 
very  much  alive ;  he  knows  the 
truth,  he  fears  it,  he  trembles  but 
he  will  never  obey  it  until  he  is 
bound  with  chains  and  put  where 
he  belongs.  And  there  are  thou- 
sands of  men  in  this  country  who 
are  just  as  unconvertible  as  Lucifier 
himself,  because  they  are  his  agents  ; 


I  would  that  they  could  all  be  con- 
verted to  the  Gospel  of  Christ;  but' 
if  that  is  impossible  then  I  regard 
it  to  be  my  duty,  as  a  citizen  of  this 
country,  to  see  to  it  that  just  and 
merciful  laws  be  enacted,  so  that  if 
a  man  refuses  to  yield  to  reason,  if 
he  refuses  to  be  converted  to  the 
truth,  he  may  be  restrained  by  force 
and  put  where  he  belongs,  that  he 
cease  to  be  a  menace  to  his  fellow 
citizens. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  guide  us  in  the  right 
way.  Oh,  how  precious  is  the 
Spirit  of  God  our  Father,  that  leads 
us  unto  all  truth !  I  pray  for  it ;  I 
need  it  myself  every  moment ;  you 
need  it.  If  you  are  guided  by  it 
you  never  will  go  astray,  but  you 
will  feel  as  I  do  that  in  this  fight 
with  sin  you  had  better  die  in  the 
trenches,  for  that  is  where  we  all 
are,  we  are  right  in  the  trenches,  in 
the  first  ranks ;  better  die  there,  as 
those  Belgians  died,  than  that  we 
compromise  with  the  devil  to  obtain 
peace,  for  he  never  keeps  any  con- 
tract that  he  makes,  he  never  did,  he 
never  will,  and  if  you  accede  to  him 
one  iota,  you  are  like  the  fly  that 
goes  into  the  web  of  the  spider,  you 
become  so  entangled  that  you  never 
can  escape,  and  there  you  die.  God 
help  us  carry  on  this  magnificent 
work  until  His  purposes  are  ac- 
complished, until  the  destiny  of  the 
Church  is  fulfilled,  until  the  state  is 
purified  and  we  prepared,  both  re- 
ligiously and  civilly,  for  the  king- 
dom and  coming  of  the  Lord,  that 
His  will  may  be  done  on  earth  as  it 
is  in  heaven,  I  pray  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Melvin  Ballard  sang  a 
hymn  entitled,  "Come  near  me,  O 
my  Savior." 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 

Faithful  continuance  in  righteous  liv- 
ing essential  to  salvation — Obedi- 
ence to  the  law  of  tithing  enjoined — 
— Need  for  missionary  work  among 
the  Saints  at  home. 

"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope 
in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most 
miserable."  So  said  the  Apostle 
Paul  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Corinthi- 
ans. The  Latter-day  Saints  have 
hope  in  Christ  beyond  this  life;  yea 
an  assurance  that  through  Him  we 
wilf  live  again ;  that  is  to  say,  we 
will  be  resurrected  after  death,  as 
He  was  resurrected ;  and  not  only 
this,  but  we  have  hope  in  Christ  and 
an  assurance  that  we  will  be  saved 
and  exalted  through  Him,  by  keep- 
ing His  laws  and  commandments. 
I  think  the  Latter-day  Saints  under- 
stand, too,  for  they  have  been  well 
taught,  that  this  does  not  mean 
merely  the  accepting  of  the  first 
principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel,  but  that  we  be  true  and 
faithful  in  keeping  all  of  the  com- 
mandments, obeying  all  of  the  laws, 
and  that  we  continue,  faithful  unto 
the  end.  We  preach  the  Gospel  in 
the  world,  and  tell  the  people  that 
something  more  than  faith  is  neces- 
sary to  salvation,  His  command- 
ments must  be  obeyed.  T  have 
thought  that  we  have  need,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  of  being  taught 
at  home  that  faith  alone  is  not  all 
that  is  necessary  to  salvation,  there 
are  so  many  of  our  people  who  seem 
to  be  satisfied  with  only  their  faith, 
and  the  acceptance  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 
There  are  many,  who  have  never 
had  sufficient  faith  to  live  the  laws 
of  the  Lord,  making  them  worthy  to 
go  up  to  the  temple  and  receive  the 
higher  ordinances  and  greater  bless- 
ings which  are  in  store  for  the  faith- 
ful. 


One  of  the  laws  which  the  Lord 
has  given  us,  and  which  is  neces- 
sary for  the  salvation  of  His  chil- 
dren and  for  the  welfare  of  His 
work,  is  the  law  of  tithing.  There 
are  many  thousands  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  been  true  and 
faithful  in  observing  this  law,  who 
pay  their  tithing  regularly,  faith- 
fully and  fully.  There  are  others, 
counted  by  the  thousands — twenty- 
two  thousand,  to  be  more  definite, 
in  the  Church,  who  have  had  means 
which  should  have  been  tithed,  and 
they  have  not  paid  a  cent  of  tithing 
during  the  past  year.  They  have 
been  moving  along,  recognized  as 
members  of  the  Church,  but  they  are 
not  doing  their  full  duty.  They  are 
wanting  in  faith  to  do  the  works 
which  are  necessary  to  salvation.  It 
is  our  hope  in  Christ  that  we  will- 
obtain  salvation  and  eternal  life  by 
doing  these  things  which  He  has 
commanded  us  to  do,  things  which 
are  right  for  us  to  do.  Who  will 
say  that  it  is  not  right  for  every 
member  of  the  Church,  according  to 
his  financial  strength,  to  aid  in  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  with  his 
finances ;  and  is  not  that  what  the 
Lord  has  required  in  this  law?  He 
does  not  ask  one  to  do  that  which 
he  cannot  do.  There  is  no  one 
asked  to  pay  a  dollar's  tithing  until 
he  has  received  ten  dollars ;  or  ten 
cents  tithing  until  he  has  received  a 
dollar  to  be  tithed.  If  we  would 
pay  our  tithing  as  we  receive  our 
income,  or  interest,  we  would  al- 
ways have  something  to  pay  as  tith- 
ing. Who  will  pretend  to  say  that 
it  is  not  a  just  law?  If  this  kingdom 
were  on  wheels,  and  it  were  possible 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  roll  it 
forth  by  pushing  and  pulling,  would 
we  expect  of  the  physically  weak 
man  or  woman  to  push  or  pull  as 
much  as  the  one  who  is  physically 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


117 


strong?  Why,  certainly  not.  A  lit- 
tle child  ought  to  comprehend  that 
principle.  Of  course,  where  much 
is  given  much  is  expected. 

I  would  ask  you,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters of  the  Church,  if  a  person,  being 
a  member  of  any  organization  which 
is  effected  for  the  common  good  of 
its  members,  is  considered  a  good 
member  of  that  organization,  if  he 
will  not  do  his  part  in  carrying  it 
on?  If  finances  are  necessary  he 
will  be  expected  to  do  his  part  in  a 
financial  way.  What  of  those  who 
would  reap  the  benefits  of  the  or- 
ganization, and  refuse  to  do  their 
part  in  maintaining  it?  I  say,  the 
law  of  tithing  is  a  just,  and  right- 
eous law  of  God,  it  is  our  Father's 
provision  for  the  carrying  on  of  His 
work,  in  large  measure,  and  His 
distribution  of  the  financial  respon- 
sibility of  it,  among  His  sons  and 
daughters  who  have  covenanted  to 
obey  Him.  Now,  since  we  .have 
twenty-two  thousand  men  and  wo- 
men who  have  means  which  should 
be  tithed,  and  who  refuse  to  pay 
their  tithing,  and  who  otherwise 
manifest  their  religious  indifference, 
we  have  need  of  work  at  home  as 
well  as  abroad. 

There  are  two  great  arms,  at 
least,  to  this  work,  and  the  responsi- 
bility which  rests  upon  us  as  Latter- 
day  Saints,  is  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to 
the  people  at  home.  The  Lord  said 
to  His  Prophet  Ezekiel : 

"I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto 
the  house  of  Israel,"  as  we  elders  are 
watchmen.  "When  a  righteous  man 
turns  from  his  righteousness  and  com- 
mit iniquity,and  I  lay  a  stumbling  block 
before  him,  he  shall  die;  because  thou 
hast  not  given  him  warning.he  shall  die 
in  his  sin  and  his  righteousness  which 
he  hath  done  shall  not  be  remembered; 
but  his  blood  will  I  require  at  thine 


hand.  Nevertheless  if  thou  warn 
the  righteous  man  that  the  righteous 
sin  not  and  he  does  not  sin,  he  shall 
surely  live,  because  he  is  warned;  also 
thou  hast  delivered  thy  soul."  (Ezek. 
3:20,  21.) 

There  are  men  and  women  who 
have  at  some  time  repented  of  their 
sins,  who  made  a  good  beginning,  in 
this  work,  in  embracing  the  Gospel, 
who  have  departed  from  their 
righteous  ways,  and  are  going  into 
spiritual  darkness,  and  it  is  for  us  to 
care  properly  for  these  people.  I 
am  asked,  by  stake  presidents,  when 
I  go  into  their  stakes,  "What  can 
we  do  to  get  these,  our  brethren  and 
sisters  whose  names  are  on  the  non- 
tithe  payers'  list,  to  pay  their  tith- 
ing?" I  have  had  to  say,  "I  sup- 
pose that  they  are  not  able  to  take 
meat ;  they  need  milk ;  we  will  have 
to  begin  over  again  and  convert 
them  by  preaching  to  them  the  first 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  and,  when 
they  get  sufficient  faith,  then  we 
may  hope  that  they  will  live  this  and 
other  laws." 

The  non-observance  of  this  prin- 
ciple of  tithing  is  only  one  of  the  in- 
dications that  there  is  need  of  con- 
stant labor  at  home  in  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion.  For  instance, 
according  to  the  reports  which  we 
have,  there  are  in  the  stakes  of  the 
Church,  a  population  of  372,000, 
and  according  to  the  statistics,  only 
about  fifty  per  cent  of  these  men, 
women  and  children  attend  a  re- 
ligious meeting  upon  the  Sabbath 
day,  including  the  Sunday  School. 
Where  are  the  186,000  every  Sab- 
bath day,  who  ought  to  be  worship- 
ing the  Lord?  Isn't  there  some- 
thing for  us  to  do?  Of  the  92,000 
male  members  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood in  this  Church,  we  are  told 
that  29,000  of  them  are  inactive; 
that  27,000  of  them,  during  the  year 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


1914,  did  not  attend  a  single 
quorum  meeting.  Is  there  not 
something  for  us  to  do? 

The  hope  we  have  in  Christ,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  we  will 
obtain  salvation,  not  by  neglecting 
these  duties,  not  by  disregarding  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  but  by 
being  true  and  faithful  in  keeping 
them  all,  and  in  laboring  for  the  sal- 
vation of  others.  I  feel  that  it  is 
true  religion  and  undefiled  that  we 
minister  to  the  souls  of  men,  for 
their  salvation,  at  home  as  well  as 
abroad,  and  in  this  ministry  we 
establish  ourselves  in  the  faith,  and 
anchor  our  souls  in  salvation. 

The  Lord  bless  these  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  faithful  workers 
in  the  Church,  that  they  may  be  un- 
tiring, and  the  Lord  bless  those  who 
are  wanting  in  faith,  and  help  them 
to  keep  His  commandments,  con- 
tinuing faithful  unto  the  end,  that 
they  may  receive  salvation  through 
Christ,  our  Savior,  I  pray.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

A  summary  of  belief  in  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel — Temple  ordinances  es- 
sential to  exaltation,  for  living  and 
dead — Duty  of  Church  members  to 
love  one  another,  and  help  all  man- 
kind. 

It  is  always  a  pleasure  to  me  to 
hear  the  Gospel  preached,  and  to 
listen  to  the  testimonies  of  the  elders 
of  Israel,  for  I  accept  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness  as  it  has 
been  revealed  in  these  latter  days. 
I  believe  absolutely  in  the  great 
atonement  of  the  Son  of  God.  I 
accept  Him  as  the  only  begotten  Son 
of  the  Father,  who  came  into  the 
world  to  atone  for  sin  and  to  give  to 
the  world  life,  that  \vc  might  have  it 
more  abundantly.    I  believe  in  the 


Gospel  of  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead,  and  that  all  men  shall  come 
forth  from  the  grave  in  a  literal 
resurrection,  a  uniting  of  body  and 
spirit,  never  more  to  be  separated. 
I  believe  that  the  just  will  be  ex- 
alted to  thrones  and  powers  and 
principalities  in  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  that  every  man  shall  re- 
ceive a  reward  according  to  his 
works.  I  believe  in  the  doctrine  of 
repentance  from  sin ;  that  it  is  nec- 
essary for  all  men  to  repent.  I  ac- 
cept the  doctrine  of  baptism  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  by  immersion  in 
water,  the  ordinance  being  perform- 
ed by  one  having  authority  to  ad- 
minister in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
I  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  by  which  we  are  brought  into 
communion  with  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  learn  of  His  ways,  that 
we  may  walk  in  His  paths.  I  firmly 
believe  in  the  doctrine  of  revelation 
and  inspiration  ;  the  privilege  of  man 
to  communicate,  under  proper  con- 
ditions and  circumstances,  with  the 
Lord.  I  believe  in  the  principle  of 
prayer,  and  that  no  man  can  come 
unto  God  without  he  has  in  his  heart 
the  spirit  of  prayer.,  by  which  he 
communicates  with  the  Father.  I 
believe  in  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man family,  and  that  it  is  the  inten- 
tion and  desire  of  the  Lord  to  save 
all  His  children,  with  the  exception 
of  a  very  few  who  will  not  be  saved, 
who  reject  salvation  against  them- 
selves because  of  their  utter  wicked- 
ness and  sinning  against  the  light. 
I  believe  the  Gospel  is  universal, 
and  it  is  not  merely  for  the  handful 
of  people  known  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  that  the  Lord  desires  to 
save  all  men,  and  eventually  will 
save  all  through  their  acceptance  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  obe- 
dience to  His  laws,  with  the  cxcep- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


13 


tion,  as  stated,  of  the  few  who  re- 
ject salvation  against  themselves.  I 
do  not  believe  that  a  man  is  saved 
in  this  iife  by  believing,  or  profess- 
ing to  believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  but  that  he  must  endure  to 
the  end  and  keep  the  commandments 
that  are  given.  It  is  a  principle  of 
the  Gospel  that  those  who  do  not 
hear  the  plan  of  salvation  here  will 
have  the  privilege  in  the  spirit 
world,  and  being  judged,  as  Peter 
said,  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
through  their  repentance  may  live 
according  to  God  in  the  spirit,  and 
that  all  mankind  will  be  ferreted  out 
in  this  life  or  in  the  spirit  world,  and 
will  have  the  Gospel  preached  to 
them.  The  time  will  come  when 
every  knee  shall  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  our  temples, 
where  we  may  go  and  receive  bless- 
ings and  Priesthood  and  power  that 
are  necessary  for  us  to  receive  in 
order  to  gain  exaltation  in  the  king- 
dom of  God.  Where  we  may  also 
go  and  have  the  privilege  of  work- 
ing for  the  salvation  of  the  dead, 
that  they  too  may  receive  the  truth 
and  be  redeemed  and  accept  the 
Gospel,  just  as  we  do  now  in  the 
flesh.  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord 
for  the  knowledge  of  the  eternity  of 
the  marriage  covenant,  which  gives 
the  husband  the  right  to  claim  his 
wife,  and  the  wife  the  right  to  claim 
her  husband  in  the  world  to  come, 
providing  they  have  gone  to  the 
House  of  the  Lord  and  been  united 
for  time  and  all  eternity  by  one  hold- 
ing this  sealing  power,  for  in  no 
other  way  can  this  great  blessing  be 
obtained.  I  am  also  thankful  for  the 
knowledge  that  the  family  relation, 
and  the  unity  of  the  family,  shall 
continue,  where  properlv  organized, 
in  righteousness  in  the  life  to  come. 


I  believe  in  all  these  doctrines  that 
have  been  presented  by  the  various 
speakers  at  this  conference.  I  ac- 
cept them  all,  and  rejoice  to  know 
that  they  have  been  revealed  in  truth 
and  power,  in  this  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times.  I  pray  that 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints,  may  be 
united  in  every  particular  for  our 
welfare,  and  see  eye  to  eye  in  all 
these  principles  of  truth,  and  stand 
together  for  the  advancement  of  the 
Gospel  throughout  the  world.  I 
trust  that  all  these  things  find  an 
abiding  place  in  our  hearts,  that  we 
may  in  very  deed  stand  in  the 
trenches,  or  in  the  front  ranks  of  the 
battle  against  sin,  with  united  pur- 
pose. 

I  believe  it  is  our  solemn  duty  to 
love  one  another,  to  believe  in  each 
other,  to  have  faith  in  each  other, 
that  it  is  our  duty  to  overlook  the 
faults  and  the  failings  of  each  other, 
and  not  to  magnify  them  in  our  own 
eyes  nor  before  the  eyes  of  the 
world.  There  should  be  no  fault- 
finding, no  back-biting,  no  evil 
speaking,  one  against  another,  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  should  be  true  to 
each  other  and  to  every  principle  of 
our  religion  and  not  be  envious  one 
of  another.  We  should  not  be  jeal- 
ous one  of  another,  nor  angry  with 
each  other,  and  there  should  not 
arise  in  our  hearts  a  feeling  that  we 
will  not  forgive  one  another  our 
trespasses.  There  should  be  no  feel- 
ing in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
God  of  unforgiveness  against  any 
man,  no  matter  who  he  may  be.  The 
Lord  has  said — T  think  I  will  read  it 
— in  one  of  the  revelations,  the  fol- 
lowing : 

Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes, standeth  condemned  before  the 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin. 

I  the  Lord  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 
forgive  all  men; 

And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your  hearts, 
let  God  judge  between  me  and  thee, 
and  reward  thee  according  to  thy 
deeds. 

And  he  that  repenteth  not  of  his 
sins,  and  confesseth  them  not,  then  ye 
shall  bring  him  before  the  church,  and 
do  with  him  as  the  scripture  saith  unto 
you,  either  by  commandment  or  by 
revelation. 

And  this  ye  shall  do  that  God  may 
be  glorified,  not  because  ye  forgive 
not,  having  not  compassion,  but  that 
ye  may  be  justified  in  tlie  eyes  of  the 
law,  that  ye  may  not  offend  him  who 
is  your  Lawgiver. 

I  believe  in  that  doctrine.  We 
ought  not  to  harbor  feelings  one 
against  another,  but  have  a  feeling 
of  forgiveness  and  of  brotherly  love 
and  sisterly  love,  one  for  another. 
Let  each  one  of  us  remember  his  or 
her  own  individual  failings  and 
weaknesses  and  endeavor  to  correct 
them.  We  have  not  reached  a  con- 
dition of  perfection  yet.  it  is  hardly 
to  be  expected  that  we  will  in  this 
life,  and  yet,  through  the  aid  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  it  is  possible  for  us  to 
stand  united  together  seeing  eye  to 
eye  and  overcoming  our  sins  and  im- 
perfections. If  we  will  do  this,  re- 
specting all  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  we  shall  be  a  power  in  the 
world  for  good  ;  we  shall  overwhelm 
and  overcome  all  evil,  all  opposition 
to  the  truth,  and  bring  to  pass  right- 
eousness upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
For  the  Gospel  will  be  spread  and 
the  people  in  the  world  will  feel  the 
influence  which  will  be  shed  forth 
from  the  people  of  Zion.  and  they 
will  be  inclined  more  to  repent  of 
their  sins  and  to  receive  the  truth. 

There  is  no  place  in  Zion  for  the 
wilful  sinner.  There  is  a  place  for 
the  repentant  sinner,  for  the  man 


who  turns  away  from  iniquitv  and 
seeks  for  life  eternal  and  the'  light 
of  the  Gospel.  We  should  not  look 
upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of 
allowance,  any  more  than  the  Lord 
can  do  so,  but  walk  uprightly  and 
perfectly  before  the  Lord.  It  is  our 
duty  to  look  after  each  other,  to 
protect  each  other,  to  warn  each 
other  of  dangers,  to  teach  each  other 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
kingdom,  and  to  stand  together  with 
a  united  front  against  the  sins  of 
the  world. 

I  pray  that  we  will  do  so,  that  we 
will  go  from  this  conference  with  a 
determination  in  our  hearts  to  con- 
tinue our  labors  more  diligently,  to 
stand  more  unitedly  for  the  truth  in 
every  degree  and  particular;  that 
the  Lord  may  pour  out  His  Spirit 
upon  us,  and  bless  us  abundantly, 
which  He  will  undoubtedly  do,  if  we 
will  observe  His  laws,  and  keep  His 
commandments  and  the  covenants 
we  have  made  with  Him  to  serve 
Him. 

This  I  pray,  with  every  other 
blessing  that  will  be  for  oiir  good, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  lesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

Knowledge  concerning  God's  attributes 
essential  to  intelligent  worship— The 
relationship  of  Jesus  Christ  to  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  spiritually  and  bodily 
— Relationship  of  mankind  to  Deity. 

In  common  with  my  brethren  and 
sisters  who  make  up  these  assembled 
thousands  of  modern  Israel,  I  have 
been  fed  with  good  food  and  made 
glad  in  each  meeting  of  this  confer- 
ence. I  have  felt  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  has  been  present  with  us 


ELDER  JAMES  E.TALM AGE. 


121 


in  great  abundance.  We  have  heard 
much  concerning  our  temporal 
duties,  and  much  relating  to  our 
spiritual  welfare.  It  has  been  made 
plain  unto  us  that  these  two  classes 
of  things  differ  in  degree  rather 
that  in  kind,  and  that  we  cannot 
serve  God  acceptably  by  devoting 
ourselves  wholly  to  scripture  study, 
for  there  are  many  things  pertain- 
ing to  temporalities  which  enter  into 
our  duties  and  our  appointed  ex- 
periences here  upon  the  earth.  On 
the  other  hand,  we  have  been  as- 
sured, not  for  the  first  time,  by  any 
means,  that  we  cannot  please  the 
Lord  by  wholly  devoting  ourselves 
to  temporal  affairs,  to  the  exclusion 
of  the  consideration  of  the  great 
spiritual  principles  and  truths  that 
have  been  given  us. 

We  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  much  has  been  said  con- 
cerning His  proprietorship,  His 
mastership,  in  the  Church,  the 
Church  that  bears  His  name.  I 
take  it  to  be  a  plain  and  simple  prin- 
ciple that  we  cannot  worship  intelli- 
gently, and  therefore  acceptably 
unto  the  Lord,  unless  we  know 
something  of  the  attributes  and  of 
the  will  of  Him  whom  we  profess 
to  worship.  The  relationship  of 
the  Christ  to  the  Eternal  Father  has 
been  set  forth  in  such  plainness  that 
I  do  not  think  any  wayfaring  man 
amongst  us  can  fail  to  understand. 
We  recognize  in  Jesus  Christ  the 
Son  of  the  Eternal  Father,  both  in 
spirit  and  in  body.  There  is  no 
other  meaning  to  attach  to  that  ex- 
pression, as  used  bv  the  Eternal 
Father  Himself— "Mine  Only  Be- 
gotten Son."  Christ  combined 
within  His  own  person  and  nature 
the  attributes  of  His  mortal  mother, 
and  just  as  truly  the  attributes  of 
His  immortal  Sire.  By  that  fixed 
and  inexorable  law  of  nature,  that 


every  living  organism  shall  follow 
after  his  kind,  Jesus  the  Christ  had 
the  power  to  die,  for  He  was  the  off- 
spring of  a  mortal  woman ;  and  He 
had  the  power  to  withstand  death 
indefinitely,  for  He  was  the  son  of 
an  immortal  Father.  This  sim- 
plicity of  doctrine  has  shocked 
many,  but  the  truth  is  frequently 
shocking  just  because  of  its  sim- 
plicity and  consequent  grandeur. 
We  must  know  something  of  the  at- 
tributes of  the  Eternal  Father,  that 
we  may  the  more  fully  comprehend 
His  relationship  to  His  Only  Begot- 
ten Son. 

Did  not  Christ  declare  again  and 
again  that  He  possessed  in  His  own 
person  such  power  over  life  that  no 
man  could  take  His  life  from  Him — 
in  plain  words,  that  no  one  could 
kill  Him — until  He  would  voluntar- 
ily surrender  Himself,  and  permit 
mortal  and  infernal  powers  to  pre- 
vail for  the  time  being?  How  could 
it  be  otherwise  for  the  Son  of  an 
immortal  Father,  who  inherited  the 
power  to  keep  death  in  abevance? 
Death  could  not  touch  Him  until 
He  willed  and  permitted  so.  Did  He 
not  say  also,  not  once  but  many  a 
time,  that  He  did  what  He  had  seen 
His  Father  do  ?  Did  He  not  declare 
that  He  did  only  what  He  had  seen 
His  Father  do,  or  what  His  Father 
had  done?  And  did  He  not  make 
it  plain  that  He  was  following  in 
the  footsteps  of  His  immortal 
Father,  the  very  Eternal  Father  to 
whom  we  pray  in  the  name  of  His 
Son  ?  It  necessarily  follows  that  the 
Eternal  Father  once  passed  through 
experiences  analogous  to  those 
which  His  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus, 
afterward  passed  through,  and 
through  which  we  are  now  passing. 
The  Eternal  Father,  therefore,  is  a 
Being  who  has  had  experiences  in- 
cident to  the  mortal  state.    He  is  a 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


resurrected  Being;  He  conquered 
death ;  and  He  gave  power  unto 
His  Son  to  conquer  death,  through 
whom  power  shall  be  given  unto  the 
Saints,  yea,  unto  all  who  will  accept 
the  boon  of  eternal  life,  to  be  re- 
deemed from  death. 

On  an  early  occasion  in  the  earthly 
ministry  of  Christ,  when  He  first 
met  Nathanael,  Jesus  recognized  in 
the  man  at  once  an  Israelite  in 
whom  was  no  guile.  In  His  con- 
versation with  Nathanael  Jesus  the 
Christ  called  Himself  for  the  first 
time,  as  far  as  our  scripture  records 
show,  The  Son  of  Man  (John 
1:51).  Then,  in  an  interview  with 
Nicodemus,  that  renowned  teacher 
in  Israel  and  learned  doctor  of  the 
law,  Jesus  called  Himself  again  The 
Son  of  Man  (John  3:13)  ;  and  you 
will  find  the  same  expression  used 
in  the  four  gospels  approximately 
eighty  times.  Eliminating  all  par- 
allel passages,  or  sayings  that  are 
reported  by  more  than  one  of  the 
writers,  there  are  approximately 
forty  separate  instances  in  which 
Jesus  Christ  called  Himself  The 
Son  of  Man ;  but  nowhere  in  the 
four  gospels  do  you  find  the  title 
used  by  any  other  than  the  Christ, 
nor  applied  by  the  Christ  to  any 
other  than  Himself. 

It  may  be  remarked,  in  passing, 
that  you  will  find  a  somewhat  sim- 
ilar expression  used  in  the  Old 
Testament,  in  the  form  of  ad- 
dress ;  and  in  these  instances  it  is 
plainly  used  in  its  literal  and  ordi- 
nary or  common  meaning — the  son 
of  a  mortal  man.  It  is  so  used  ap- 
proximately ninety  times  in  the 
Book  of  Ezekiel ;  in  each  instance, 
however,  Jehovah  applies  it  to  His 
prophet,  addressing  him  as  "Son  of 
man",  as  the  context  of  the  several 
passages  plainly  shows,  to  impress 


upon  Ezekiel  the  fact  that  though 
he  was  permitted  to  voice  and  write 
the  very  words  of  Jehovah,  he  was 
nevertheless  but  a  man.  So  also  in 
the  Book  of  Moses  you  will  find  that 
Satan  blasphemously  assumed  to 
establish,  or  to  make  it  appear  that 
there  existed,  a  similar  difference 
between  him  and  Moses,  when  he 
said  "Moses,  son  of  man,  worship 
me".  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Moses 
1:12). 

But  the  distinctive  title  "The  Son 
of  Man"  as  applied  to  Jesus 
Christ  occurs  only  once  in  the  Old 
Testament.  It  is  in  the  seventh 
chapter  of  Daniel,  wherein  is  given 
an  account  of  a  wonderful  manifes- 
tation from  God,  in  which  Daniel 
saw,  in  the  vision  of  the  night,  the 
scenes  that  shall  take  place  in  a  time 
yet  future,  when  the  Ancient  of 
Days,  Adam,  who  is  the  patriarch 
of  the  race,  shall  sit  to  judge  his 
posterity,  and  they  shall  come  be- 
fore him,  or  as  Daniel  saw  it,  they 
came  before  him,  in  their  order ;  and 
among  them  there  came  one  like 
unto  The  Son  of  Man  who  appeared 
in  the  clouds  of  heaven :  and  when 
He  came  all  power  and  dominion 
were  given  unto  Him,  and  His 
kingdom  was  declared  to  be  an  all- 
embracing  and  an  everlasting  king- 
dom. Thus  is  shown  the  superiority 
of  the  Son  of  Man  over  the  Ancient 
of  Days,  or  in  other  words,  the  su- 
premacy of  Jesus  the  Christ  over 
Adam,  the  patriarch  of  the  race 
(see  Dan.  7:9-14). 

Now,  in  the  New  Testament,  out- 
side the  four  gospels,  you  will  find 
the  title  "The  Son  of  Man''  occur- 
ring about  three  times,  and  in  each 
instance  it  is  applied  to  the  Christ, 
in  His  then  glorified  state  (see  Acts 
7 :56 ;  Rev.  1 :13,  and  14 :14) .  When 
Stephen  stood  before  his  unright- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.TALMAGE. 


123 


eous  judges,  the  heavens  were 
opened  to  him,  and  he  could  not 
keep  within  his  soul  what  he  saw. 
He  said,  "Behold  I  see  The  Son  of 
Man,  standing  on  the  right  hand  of 
God" ;  and  for  that  testimony  they 
took  Stephen  out  and  stoned  him, 
as  for  the  testimony  of  the  Father 
they  had  before  crucified  the  Christ. 

God  has  glorified  His  Son ;  but 
though  the  Son  is  glorified  with  the 
glory  of  the  Father,  you  can't 
change  the  fact  that  He  is  the  Son 
of  that  Father,  and  that  Father,  the 
Eternal  Father,  the  Father  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Father  of  His  spirit  and 
the  Father  of  His  body,  was  once  a 
Man,  and  has  progressed,  not  by  any 
favor  but  by  the  right  of  conquest 
over  sin,  and  over  death,  to  His 
present  position  of  priesthood  and 
power,  of  Godship  and  Godliness, 
as  the  Supreme  Being  whom  we  all 
profess  to  worship.  We  are  all 
spirit  sons  and  daughters  of  God ; 
but  Jesus  Christ  was  and  is  The 
Son  of  God  in  a  superlative  and  dis- 
tinctive sense,  God  the  Eternal 
Father  being  His  Father  both  in 
spirit  and  in  flesh. 

We  believe  in  the  more  than  im- 
.  perial  status  of  the  human  race.  We 
believe  that  our  spirits  are  the  off- 
spring of  Deity,  and  we  hold  that 
when  Christ  said  to  His  apostles, 
"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect,"  He  was  not  talking  of  a 
merely  idealistic  yet  impossible 
achievement ;  but  that  on  the  con- 
trary He  meant  that  it  was  possible 
for  men  to  advance  until  they  shall 
become  like  unto  the  Gods  in  their 
powers  and  in  their  attainments, 
through  righteousness. 

According  to  the  spirit  of  the  re- 
vealed word,  perfection  is  rather 


relative  than  absolute.  Though  a 
man  become  perfect  in  his  mortal 
sphere  of  activity,  he  is  by  no  means 
perfect  as  gaged  by  the  standard 
prevailing  in  heaven.  As  the 
Prophet  Joseph  said  to  the  Church 
in  early  days,  so  now  says  the 
Church  unto  the  world — if  the  heav- 
ens could  be  rent,  and  you  could  see 
the  Eternal  Father  sitting  upon  His 
throne,  you  would  see  Him  like  a 
man  in  form.  That  the  Eternal 
Father  has  called  Himself  a  Man  is 
plainly  apparent  in  the  testimony  of 
Enoch  the  Seer;  and  in  the  same 
scripture  Jesus  Christ  is  designated 
"The  Son  of  Man"  even,  before  the 
time  of  the  flood ;  "For  in  the  lan- 
guage of  Adam,  Man  of  Holiness 
is  His  name,  and  the  name  of  His 
Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man, 
even  Jesus  Christ",  (Moses  6:57; 
compare  7:24,  47  and  54).  In  a 
certain  revelation  to  Enoch,  the 
Eternal  Father  thus  spake :  "Be- 
hold, I  am  God ;  Man  of  Holiness 
is  my  name,  Man  of  Counsel  is  my 
name ;  and  Endless  and  Eternal  is 
my  name,  also."  (Moses  7:35). 
Thus  does  the  light  of  modern  rev- 
elation illuminate  the  dark  passages 
of  old. 

The  doctrine  of  the  relationship 
between  God  and  men,  as  made 
plain  through  the  word  of  revela- 
tion, is  today  as  it  was  of  old, 
though  in  the  light  of  later  scrip- 
ture we  are  enabled  to  read  the 
meaning  more  clearly.  It  is  pro- 
vided that  we,  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God,  may  advance  until  we 
become  like  unto  our  Eternal  Father 
and  our  Eternal  Mother,  in  that  we 
may  become  perfect  in  our  spheres 
as  they  are  in  theirs.  That  grand 
truth,  taught  by  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
and  ridiculed  for  the  time,  has  now 
gripped  the  minds  of  the  thinkers 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  philosophers  of  the  age.  You 
will  find  it  hinted  at  and  timidly 
expressed  in  the  writings  of  many 
recent  and  learned  publications  in 
the  theological  field.  That  great 
truth  is  finding  its  way  into  the 
literature  of  the  world.  It  was 
crystallized  into  what  we  may  call 
an  aphorism,  by  President  Lorenzo 
Snow :  "As  man  is  God  once  was ; 
as  God  is  man  may  be".  We  know 
that  Christ  is  God,  and  that  He  lived 
upon  the  earth  as  a  Man.  In  the 
sense  in  which  Christ  was  perfect 
in  His  sphere,  we  may  become  per- 
fect in  ours.  We  may  progress,  not 
to  become  each  one  a  savior  of  the 
world  in  the  particular  sense  in 
which  Christ  was  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  but  we  may  follow  Him  to 
eternal  glory,  and  to  eternal  life, 
which  may  our  Father  grant,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue, 

Roll  round  with  the  year, 
And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master 
appear, 

His  adorable  will  let  us  glady  fulfill, 
And  our  talents  improve, 
By  the  patience  of  hope  and  the  labor 
of  love. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Duncan  M.  McAllister. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 

CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  p.  m. 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  meeting  to  order. 

The  congregation  sang. the  hymn  : 

There  is  beauty  all  around, 
When  there's  love  at  home; 


There  is  joy  in  ev'ry  sound, 
When  there's  love  at  home. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Stephen  L.  Richards. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah  !• 

Jesus    anointed   that    Prophet  and 
Seer — ■ 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations 
revere. 

PREST.  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

(President  of  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  but 
express  to  you  today  the  pleasure 
that  I  have  in  being  with  you  at  this 
great  conference,  and  I  have  receiv- 
ed additional  pleasure  in  listening 
to  those  who  have  spoken,  and  also 
have  found  joy  in  the  true  ring  of 
the  good  spirit  that  actuated  Presi- 
dent Smith's  remarks  in  the  begin- 
ning session  of  these  services.  I  be- 
lieve in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  I  have  faith  in  His 
servants  and  in  the  Church.  I  be- 
lieve  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 
I  believe  in  his  sacred  and  important 
ministry.  I  believe  the  message  that 
he  received  from  the  angel  Moroni, 
bringing  to  him  that  great  record  of 
a  portion  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
whose  remnants  are  today  inhabi- 
tants of  this  American  continent  and 
the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  that  I  have  received.  Like 
yourselves,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  «was  born  of  goodly  parents.  I 
have  heard  from  the  lips  of  my 
father  and  mother,  testimonies  of 
the  truth  of  this  great  work,  from 
the  earliest  time  that  I  can  remem- 
ber.   I  imbibed  the  principles  and 


PRESIDENT  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


125 


faith  of  the  Gospel  from  my  mother, 
From  my  first  remembrance,  I  heard 
her  speak  of  this  great  work,  with 
the  sublimest  faith  that  a  human 
being  can  possess,  and  the  same  can 
be  truly  said,  as  many  of  you  know, 
of  my  noble  father.  He  taught  his 
children  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ, 
that  He  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  He 
is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Re- 
deemer of  all  the  children  of  our 
Heavenly  Father ;  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  sent  with  a  high  commis- 
sion to  perform  a  great  labor,  to 
reveal  a  knowledge  of  the  resurrec- 
tion and  the  eternal  life  of  man,  to 
bring  to  light  again  the  truth  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel  that  Jesus  taught, 
and  that  His  apostles  taught,  and 
that  Paul  alluded  to  when  he  said, 
"Woe  is  me  if  I  preach  not  this 
Gospel  for  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  all  them  that  be- 
lieve and  obey." 

I  rejoice  today  when  I  remember 
some  of  the  things  that  I  heard  my 
father  speak  of.  He  said  that  at  one 
time,  during  the  early  spring  of 
1834,  the  Prophet  Joseph  inter- 
viewed himself  and  his  brother 
Brigham.  The  Prophet  said  to  these 
two  brothers,  Elder  Brigham  Young 
and  Elder  Joseph  Young,  "I  am 
going  to  organize  a  company  of  men 
to  journey  up  to  Missouri,  to  the 
center  stake  of  Zion,  from  whence 
the  Saints  have  been  driven,  and 
robbed  of  their  possessions,  and  I 
want  you  two  brethren  to  consent  to 
go  with  me.  If  you  will  go,"  he 
said,  "I  promise  you  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  that  you  shall  go  safely, 
and  return  in  safety  to  your  fami: 
lies."  Of  course,  these  faithful 
brethren  were  never  known  to  re- 
fuse a  call  made  upon  them  by  the 
Prophet,  and  they  joined  the  gallant 
company  that  accompanied  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hy- 


rum  into  the  land  of  Missouri,  with 
two  hundred  and  ten  others.  I  am 
glad  of  the  testimonies  I  have  heard 
borne  in  regard  to  that  great  mis- 
sion. At  that  time  it  was  considered 
opportune  to  bring  relief  to  those 
poor  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
who  had  been  driven  from  their 
homes  in  that  part  of  the  state  of 
Missouri,  Independence,  Jackson 
county.  The  Prophet  invited  men 
who  had  some  means,  I  heard  my 
father  say,  and  history  bears  this 
out,  men  that  could  command  some 
resources,  to  go  up  to  Zion,  as  it  was 
called  then,  and  redeem,  by  pur- 
chase, that  portion  of  the  land  from 
which  the  Saints  had  been  driven. 
When  they  arrived  in  the  state  of 
Missouri,  and  crossed  the  Fishing 
River,  opposite  Independence,  a 
'great  storm  arose,  and  this  was 
thought  to  be  very  providential.  Lit- 
tle Fishing  River,  and  Big  Fishing 
River,  rose  thirty  or  forty  feet  in 
one  night,  so  some  of  the  mob  testi- 
fied, and  this  proved  a  protection  to 
the  little  band  of  brethren  who  went 
up  in  Zion's  camp. 

While  there  encamped,  there  was 
dissatisfaction  among  some  of  the 
members  of  the  camp,  some  of  them 
felt  to  rebel  against  the  require- 
ments made  upon  them  by  the 
Prophet.  One  evening  some  of  them 
were  stricken  down  with  a  terrible 
disease  known  as  the  Asiatic  cholera 
— I  do  not  know  as  the  brethren  rec- 
ognized at  that  time  that  that  was 
the  nature  of  the  disease.  Fourteen 
of  that  little  band  of  brethren  died 
within  three  days,  with  that  terrible 
scourge.  It  is  written  in  history 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his 
brother  Hyrum,  by  request  of  some 
of  the  afflicted  ones,  laid  their  hands 
upon  the  brethren  who  were  sick 
and  tried  to  rebuke  the  disease,  but 
the  disease  laid  hold  upon  these  two 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


great  men  to  that  degree  that  they 
were  thrown  to  the  ground  in  terri- 
ble convulsions.  As  they  lay  to- 
gether writhing  in  pain,  they  seized 
each  other  by  the  hand  and  strug- 
gled to  their  knees,  holding  fast  to 
each  other's  hands,  with  a  vow  in 
their  hearts  that  they  would  not 
arise  from  their  kneeling  position 
until  they  had  a  testimony  from  God 
that  they  would  be  restored.  After 
praying  for  some  time,  the  Prophet 
records,  lifting  their  hearts  to  God, 
pleading  with  Him  with  all  the 
strength  that  they  could  muster, 
Hyrum  Smith  rose  to  his  feet  and 
began  to  shout  "Hosanna  to  God 
and  the  Lamb  forever,  for,"  said  he 
to  his  brother  Joseph,  "I  have  had  a 
vision,  I  have  seen  our  dear  old 
mother  kneeling  in  the  orchard 
praying  for  her  bovs,  and  T  have  had 
a  testimony  from  God  that  her  pray- 
ers will  be  heard,  and  that  we  shall 
once  more  see  her  in  life."  Joseph, 
the  Prophet,  immediately  arose  from 
his  knees  and  ioined  in  praise  and 
halleluiah  to  God,  for  he  too  felt 
renewed  strength  and  power  from 
the  intercession  of  her  faithful 
prayers,  and  exclaimed,  "God  bless 
our  dear  old  mother ;  how  often  has 
she  brought  us  from  the  depths  of 
despair,  sickness,  pain  and  suffering 
through  her  devotion  and  pravers." 

I  am  glad  that  this  testimony  has 
come  to  me.  from  my  father,  and 
also  from  the  history  of  the  Church. 
The  Prophet  and  his  brother  felt  the 
blessed  result  of  that  good  mother's 
prayer,  and  testified  of  her  devoted 
love  for  her  sons.  Tt  is  in  keeping 
with  the  mothers  in  this  Church,  the 
mothers  of  these  boys  and  girls  who 
are  seated  in  this  great  congrega- 
tion. I  do  not  mean  particularlv  of 
any  age,  but  of  all  ages.  All  of  us, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  real- 
ized how  the  faith  and  prayers  of 


our  dear  mothers  and  fathers  have 
prevailed,  time  and  time  again,  with 
the  Lord  of  heaven  in  our  behalf. 

I  am  glad  today  that  I  can  testify 
of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ;  it  is  indeed  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  To- 
day, instead  of  having  enemies  in 
Independence,  Jackson  county,  Mis- 
souri, Brother  Bennion  informs  me 
there  are  many  friends  there  who  do 
not  belong  to  our  faith.  There  were 
very  many  people  in  that  country 
that  were  not  our  friends,  at  the 
time  of  the  gathering  of  our  people 
there,  and  of  their  settlement  in  that 
county ;  they  far  outnumbered  us 
and  were  our  bitter  foes.  Today 
they  are  friendly  to  our  people;  and 
T  am  glad  that  this  is  so.  I  am  glad 
that  our  people  have  the  opportunity 
once  more  of  standing  upon  those 
sacred  places  that  were  designated 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  be 
prominent  cities,  dwelling  places  for 
the  Latter-day  Saints  some  time  in 
the  future.  We  have  a  mission  es- 
tablished there,  a  house  of  worship, 
and  able  missionaries  under  the 
president  of  that  mission  proclaming 
the  Gospel  on  the  very  land  from 
which  the  Saints  were  driven  in 
olden  time.  "In  olden  times"  I  do 
not  mean  ages  or  centuries  ago,  but 
during  the  history  that  this  people 
have  made  in  the  last  eighty-five 
years. 

Things  have  turned  in  our  favor 
in  many  places  where  we  were  at 
one  time  very  greatly  in  disfavor, 
and  I  attribute  this  to  the  fact  that 
this  is  indeed  a  progressive  work. 
Tt  is  being  taught  by  able  mission- 
aries to  the  people  of  this  land,  and 
they  are  beginning  to  realize  that 
there  is  some  good  in  "Mormon- 
ism."  The  Lord  is  evidencing  by 
His  power  and  blessings  that  they 
are    His    people    indeed.  Many 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


127 


strangers  have  been  willing  to  ad- 
mit, although  they  have  not  had  suf- 
ficient testimony  of  the  Gospel  to 
■embrace  it,  that  there  is  much  good 
in  "Mormonism,"  and  that  it  has 
brought  to  pass  many  good  things. 
It  has  gathered  men  and  women 
from  every  land  and  clime  of  the 
civilized  world ;  all  of  the  Christian 
nations  have  contributed  some  of 
their  population  to  this  great  move- 
ment, and  their  unification,  their  un- 
ion of  purpose,  have  testified  that 
they  are  being  brought  into  unity 
of  faith,  and  speaking  the  same  lan- 
guage. Amalgamating  together  the 
gathered  of  the  nations  that  have 
come  to  this  place,  I  am  reminded 
of  that  Mr.  Brown  who  was  long 
the  bodyguard  of  Queen  Victoria. 
He  said  to  the  beautiful  Danish 
princess,  whom  the  Prince  had 
chosen  for  a  wife,  "In  welcoming 
thee  all  Danes  are  we."  I  think  that 
in  welcoming  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  this  land  that  has  been  prepared 
for  their  gathering,  we  can  say  we 
are  all  one  nation,  one  people,  that 
we  are  one  in  purpose  of  heart,  that 
we  are  worshiping  one  God,  and 
that  we  have  one  faith,  one  baptism, 
one  Lord. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
today  in  this  testimony.  I  can  say, 
in  conclusion,  when  I  look  at  this 
work  and  its  progress,  and  when  I 
realize  the  faith  of  our  leaders,  I 
feel  like  repeating  what  Queen  Eliz- 
abeth said,  when  the  Bishop  of  Can- 
terbury placed  the  crown  upon  her 
brow.  "The  Lord  has  done  it  and  it 
is  marvelous  in  our  eyes."  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

In  placing  upon  record  a  num- 
ber of  visions  granted  to  him  when 
a  prisoner  upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos, 


the  beloved  disciple  of  the  Lord, 
John,  recorded  this : 

"I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst 
of  heaven  having  the  everlasting 
Gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  Him;  for  the  hour 
of_His  judgment  is  come:  and  worship 
Him  that  made  heaven  and  earth,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

Two  very  great  things  are  implied 
in  that  scripture.  First  of  all  it  is 
evident  that  "the  hour  of  God's 
judgment"  we  naturally  think  of  as 
in  some  way  connected  with  a  great 
epoch  in  relation  to  the  earth  and 
its  history.  "In  the  hour  of  God's 
judgment,"  it  would  appear  from 
this  scripture,  men  would  be 
without  the  Gospel, — every  nation 
and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people, 
—or  else  why  should  there  be  need 
of  the  Lord  sending  an  angel  to  re- 
store that  Gospel  to  the  world  in  the 
hour  of  His  judgment,  if  it  was  al- 
ready on  the  earth.  In  the  time  of 
His  judgment,  also,  it  appears  that 
every  nation,  kindred  and  tongue 
and  people  would  be  worshiping 
some  other  Deity  than  God  who  cre- 
ated the  heavens  and  the  earth  and 
the  seas  and  the  fountains  of  water ; 
or  else  why  this  call  to  all  nations  to 
return  to  the  worship  of  the  true 
and  the  living  God,  creator  of 
heaven  and  earth? 

The  other  great  thing  that  is  im- 
plied in  this  prophecy  is  the  fact 
that  in  the  hour  of  God's  judgment 
He  would  restore  the  Gospel  to  the 
earth  by  the  ministration  of  an 
angel. 

Those  two  things,  I  think,  stand 
out  strongly  in  this  scripture,  and 
it  is  generally  understood  I  think 
in  the  Church  that  the  dispensation 
of   the    Gospel    given    unto  us, 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


brought  forth  in  our  age  by  the 
ministry  of  angels,  is  the  fulfillment 
of  John's  vision,  although  there  be 
some  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  think  that  this  passage  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  introduction 
of  the  Gospel  to  the  earth  in  our 
day;  and  there  was  one  man  very 
high  in  authority  in  the  Church  who 
rather  scoffed  at  the  idea  of  the 
elders  using  that  passage  of  scrip- 
ture as  a  prophecy  of  the  coming 
forth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
these  days.  Yet  the  matter  is  de- 
cidedly settled  by  a  revelation  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  is  call- 
ed the  "Appendix."  By  the  way,  our 
treatment  of  that  revelation  as  to  its 
placement  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  perhaps  is  a  little 
misleading ;  it  was  a  revelation  given 
on  the  3rd  of  November,  1831,  and 
was  then  called  the  "Appendix"  to 
a  little  collection  of  the  revelations 
that  had  been  given  to  the  Prophet 
up  to  November,  1831 ;  and  this  rev- 
elation is  the  "Appendix"  to  that 
little  collection  rather  than  to  the 
whole  Book  of  Revelations  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  but  be- 
cause it  was  called  an  "Appendix" 
to  that  little  collection,  we  have  kept 
moving  it  back,  in  the  book 
in  succeeding  editions,  and  admit- 
ting the  subsequent  revelations, 
still  calling  that  the  "Appen- 
dix ;"  but  as  a  matter  of  fact  it 
was  the  "Appendix"  only  to  the 
first  collection  of  revelations  that 
was  made  and  that  was  intended  to 
be  published,  and  was  partly  pub- 
lished, in  the  city  of  Independence, 
in  1833.  In  this  revelation  occurs 
this  passage : 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  God  hath 
sent  forth  the  angel  crying  through 
the  midst  of  heaven,  saying,  Prepare 
ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  make  His 


paths  straight,  for  the  hour  of  His 
coming  is  nigh." 

And  again: 

"Now,  verily  saith  the  Lord,  that 
these  things  might  be  known  among 
you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  have 
sent  forth  mine  angel" — 

This  is  in  1831,  be  it  remem- 
bered— 

"flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  Gospel,  who 
hath  appeared  unto  some,  and  hath 
committed  it  unto  man,  who  shall  ap- 
pear unto  many  that  dwell  on  the 
earth; 

"And  this  Gospel  shall  be  preached 
unto  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue  and,  people, 

"And  the  servants  of  God  shall  go 
forth,  saying,  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear 
God  and  give  glory  to  Him,  for  the 
hour  of  His  judgment  is  come: 

"And  worshp  Him  that  made  the 
heavens  and  the  earth  and  the  sea,  and 
the  fountains  of  waters." 

The  language  of  this  modern 
revelation  describing  the  fulfillment 
of  St.  John's  vision  is  so  nearly 
identical  with  that  of  the  Book  of 
Revelation  that  I  think  there  can  be 
no  mistake  about  it,  vist  that  this 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel  com- 
mitted unto  us  is  the  fulfillment  of 
John's  great  vision.  And  now,  that 
being  true,  behold  what  burden,  joy- 
ful burden  however,  is  laid  upon  the 
Church  of  Christ!  For  with  the 
acceptance  of  this  dispensation  of 
the  Gospel,  and  the  organization  of 
the  Church  as  the  means  of  pro- 
claiming that  Gospel  to  the  world, 
comes  the  duty  of  preaching  that 
Gospel  to  every  nation  and  kindred 
and  tongue  and  people.  The 
Church  has  two  great  functions  to 
perform,  that  is  to  say,  you  can 
generalize  her  responsibilities  and 
her  duties  to  the  world  under  two 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


129 


general  heads,  namely,  the  procla- 
mation of  the  truth  which  God  has 
deposited  with  her,  to  all  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth ;  and  the  other 
great  duty  of  the  Church  is  to  per- 
fect the  lives  of  those  who  accept 
those  truths.  Upon  those  two  things 
hang  all  the  law  and  all  the  proph- 
ets, so  to  speak. 

I  merely  wish  to  call  your  atten- 
tion to  one  part  of  that  great  mis- 
sion, and  that  is  the  responsibility 
of  making  proclamation  of  the  truth 
which  God  has  restored  to  the  earth, 
and  deposited  with  His  Church. 
That  burden  rests  upon  the  whole 
Church  of  Christ ;  not  upon  one  sec- 
tion of  it.  You  may  use,  and  we 
are  waking  up  to  a  realization  of 
the  fact  that  it  was  evidently  God's 
intent  that  we  should  use,  the 
seventies  of  the  Church  as  the  means 
for  the  proclamation  of  this  Gospel. 
Now  you  may  use  them  as  the 
agency  for  this  work,  the  principal 
one,  but  the  duty  and  the  burden  of 
carrying  out  that  part  of  the  mission 
of  the  Church  rests  upon  the  entire 
body  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
not  upon  the  seventies  alone.  We 
are  beginning  to  realize  that  in  send- 
ing forth  this  message  to  the  world 
we  are  doubtless  using  too  many 
young  men  of  inexperience,  of 
scarcely  matured  minds  ;  young  men 
whose  judgment  has  not  yet  settled 
to  full,  manly  judgment.  In  other 
words  we  have  perhaps  overlooked 
the  admonition  that  the  Prophet 
gave  upon  this  subject  in  the  very 
early  history  of  the  Church.  For 
instance,  he  says  in  a  letter  from  the 
elders  in  Kirtland  to  their  brethren 
abroad,  in  1833 : 

"Be  careful  about  sending  boys  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world;  if 
they  go,  let  them  be  accompanied  by 
someone  who  is  able  to  guide  them  in 
the  proper  channel,  lest  they  become 


puffed  up  and  fall  under  condemnation, 
and  into  the  snare  of  the  devil." 

We  find  it  necessary  to  return  to 
this  counsel,  or  to  be  admonished  by 
it ;  and  while  we  may  continue  to  call 
young  men,  I  hope  we  will,  but  at 
the  same  time  we  find  a  crying  need 
for  men  of  mature  judgment,  and  of 
comprehensive  knowledge  of  the 
great  truths  that  we  are  to  present 
to  the  children  of  men.  In  passing 
let  me  say  that  the  Church  has  no 
higher  duty  to  perform  than  this 
duty  of  teaching  the  Gospel.  The 
organization  of  the  Church  is  such 
that  it  proclaims  to  us,  if  we  will 
but  contemplate  it,  how  highly  the 
Lord  regards  the  duty  of  Hi? 
Church  in  making  proclamation  of 
His  message  unto  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  since  He  sets  apart  and 
makes  it  the  special  duty  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  and  of  the  great 
body  of  the  seventy — now  ten  thou- 
sand strong — to  perform  that  duty. 
It  is  a  labor  worthy  of  the  best  man- 
hood, and  of  the  highest  talent,  in 
the  Church ;  and  is  worthy  of  the 
greatest  sacrifices,  in  order  to  send 
the  message  of  God  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth.  This  Church 
has  prospered  in  proportion  to  her 
zeal,  and  earnestness  in  fulfilling  this 
high  duty  that  she  owes  both  to  God 
and  to  the  children  of  men.  When 
dark  clouds  gathered  about  the 
Church  in  Kirtland,  and  it  did  seem 
as  if  the  powers  of  the  nethermost 
world  were  combined  in  an  effort  to 
overthrow  the  Prophet  and  the  work 
that  he  was  founding,  a  strange 
thing  happened.  In  a  council  meet- 
ing of  the  priesthood  the  Prophet 
arose  and  crossed  the  room  and 
went  to  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  told 
him  that  the  Spirit  had  whispered 
to  him  that  for  the  salvation  of  the 
Church,  it  was  necessary  that  the 
Lord's  servant,  Heber  C.  Kimball, 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cross  the  great  waters  and  make 
proclamation  of  the  Gospel  in  Eng- 
land. A  strange  way  to  save  the 
Church,  was  it  not?  And  yet  it  had 
that  effect ;  for  from  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  Gospel  at  that  time  in 
England  there  began  that  great  pro- 
cession of  new  membership  into  the 
Church,  which  so  mightily  strength- 
ened it.  They  gave  to  it  new  life 
and  vigor  and  power  in  the  world. 
The  new  disciples  took  the  place  of 
those  who  were  disposed  to  fall 
away. 

Again  you  would  naturally  sup- 
pose after  the  experiences  in  Mis- 
souri, when  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  had  gathered  to  that  state  were 
as  a  people  scattered  and  peeled,  dis- 
possessed of  all  their  earthly  pos- 
sessions, and  driven  from  the  State 
of  Missouri,  everybody  in  distress,  in 
sickness,  and  in  poverty — you  would 
naturally  suppose,  I  say.  that  nobody 
would  think  of  missionary  work 
then  ;  and  yet.  in  the  midst  of  those 
trials,  the  word  of  the  Lord  came 
to  the  Prophet  directing  that  the 
Twelve  Apostles  should  take  their 
departure  from  the  land  of  Zion, 
from  the  public  square  in  Far  West, 
and  cross  the  waters  and  preach  the 
Gospel  again  in  England :  and  so  in 
the  midst  of  the  moving  from  Mis- 
souri and  settling  in  Nauvoo,  this 
mission  was  undertaken ;  and  again 
the  work  took  a  mighty  stride  for- 
ward as  the  result  of  the  mission  of 
the  Apostles  to  those  foreign  lands. 
Tens  of  thousands  were  brought 
into  the  Church,  and  the  means 
essential  to  carrying  on  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  came  from  that  mission, 
and  strengthened  the  hands  of  the 
brethren  at  Nauvoo.  Tn  each  of 
these  crises,  you  see,  the  Church 
turned  to  her  great  duty  of  making 
nroclamation  of  the  Gospel,  with  the 
happiest  results. 


When  our  people  were  expatri- 
ated from  the  United  States  and  had 
been  wonderfully  led  through  the 
wilderness  to  these  mountain  val- 
leys, with  a  great  portion  of  the 
Church  still  on  wheels  in  the  wilder- 
ness, and  in  encampments  along  the 
line  of  travel  between  these  moun- 
tains and  the  Missouri  River,  you 
would  naturally  suppose  that  that 
was  a  time  when  every  man  of 
strength  and  wisdom  and  faith  and 
spiritual  power  would  be  needed  in 
Israel  to  locate  the  people  in  these 
mountain  valleys  ;  yet  the  prophet  of 
the  Lord,  then  guiding  the  affairs  of 
Israel,  in  1849 ,"at  the"October  Con- 
ference of  that  year,  before  anvbody 
was  very  well  settled  in  the  new 
home,  began  a  great  foreign  and  do- 
mestic missionary  work — leading  to 
the  founding  of  a  number  of  foreign 
missions  that  have  continued  to  this 
day. 

Addison  Pratt,  a  returned  mis- 
sionary from  the  South  Pacific  Is- 
lands, since  the  Church  had  no  tem- 
ple at  that  time,  was  taken  to  the 
summit  of  Ensign  Peak  and  given 
his  endowments,  that  he  might  re- 
turn to  those  islands  of  the  sea  in 
which  he  had  labored,  with  greater 
spiritual  power,  and  with  his  two 
other  companions  go  on  with  the 
work  that  had  been  opened  up  in 
those  far  away  lands. 

Elder  Amasa  M.  Lyman  and 
Charles  C.  Rich,  the  latter  a  newly 
ordained  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  were  sent  to  the  Pacific 
Coast,  to  California,  to  gather  up 
those  who  had  gone  astray,  and  save 
the  scattered  sheep  of  the  house  of 
Israel. 

Orson  Pratt,  in  1848,  had  been 
sent  to  England,  to  preside  in  that 
mission ;  and  at  this  wonderful  con- 
ference, of  1849,  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, a  newly  ordained  apostle,  at 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


131 


the  time,  and  a  young  man  then,  was 
sent  to  join  Elder  Pratt  in  the  Brit- 
ish mission. 

Elder  Lorenzo  Snow  was  called 
to  open  the  door  of  the  Gospel  in 
Italy  and  in  other  lands  of  Europe 
and  India. 

Erastus  Snow  was  called  at  the 
same  time  to  open  the  door  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  Scandinavian  nations. 

Elder  John  Taylor  was  sent  to 
open  the  door  of  the  Gospel  to  the 
great  empires  of  France  and  of  Ger- 
many.   These  brethren  had  mavel- 
ous   success,   for   God   was  with 
them,  in  establishing  periodicals  in 
the  languages  of  the  nations  to 
which  they  were  sent ;  also  in  trans- 
lating some  of  the  standard  works 
of  the  Church — the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  other  works.    They  made  wide 
proclamation  of  the  Gospel  in  those 
days,  and  founded  the  missions  that 
have  continued  until  this  present 
time  in  those  several  lands.  The 
work  under  Elders  Pratt  and  Rich- 
ards, in  England,  had  a  wonderful 
development.    In  the  little  less  than 
three  years  that  Orson  Pratt  pre- 
sided in  that  land,  the  "Millennial 
Star"  increased  in  its  circulation 
from  three  thousand  seven  hundred 
to  twenty-two  thousand.    In  about 
the  same  length  of  time,  a  little  less 
than  three  years,   in  the  British 
Isles,   twenty-two   thousand  were 
added  to  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
five  thousand  five  hundred  were 
emigrated  to  the  land  of  Zion.  You 
see  how  wonderfully  God  blesses 
His  Church  when  she  pays  full  and 
complete  attention  to  this  holy  of- 
fice of  making  proclamation  of  the 
word  of  God  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the   earth.     It   is   the   source  of 
strength  and  life  and  progress  to  the 
Church. 

I  am  saying  all  this  to  you  because 


I  believe,  while  we  have  not  been 
neglectful,  I  think,  at  any  time,  our 
circumstances  and  conditions  con- 
sidered— we  have  not  been  neglect- 
ful at  any  time  in  attention  to  this 
great  mission  of  ours  ;  and  yet  from 
time  to  time  there  do  come,  appar- 
ently, special  openings,  special  op- 
portunities, calling  for  increased 
exertion  upon  our  part,  and,  per- 
haps, the  making  of  what  we  call 
sacrifices  for  this  work.  I  believe 
that  the  stage  of  the  world  is  being 
reset  for  increased  opportunities  for 
us  to  make  proclamation  of  this 
message  that  has  been  committed 
unto  us ;  that  the  nations  are  on  the 
way  to  that  humiliation,  to  that  con- 
dition, when  they  will  lend  an  ear 
to  what  we  have  to  say.  Now  my 
point  is  this,  that  while  they  are  in 
preparation  for  the  incoming  of 
conditions  wherein  they  will  be  more 
willing  to  listen  to  our  message, 
it  is  becoming  in  us  that  we 
make  preparation  for  the  enlarged 
opportunity  that  is  promised  for  a 
fruitful  proclamation  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  again  restored  to  the 
earth. 

In  pursuance  of  these  ideas  we  are 
going  among  our  seventies,  and  the 
local  authorities  of  the  stakes  and 
wards  are  being  asked  to  give  more 
attention  to  the  seventies  as  the  most 
proper  officers  in  the  Church  to  fill 
the  call  for  missionary  service 
abroad.  The  mission  service  of  the 
Church  needs  men  of  judgment, 
men  of  weight  of  character.  There 
is  nothing  truer  in  the  psychology 
of  things,  than  this,  that  if  you 
would  appeal  to  men  of  character, 
men  that  are  heads  of  families,  men 
that  have  mature  thought,  and  are 
earnest  in  fulfilling  the  purposes  of 
life,  if  you  would  reach  those  classes 
— and  they  are  the  ones  I  take  it  that 
we  are  anxious  to  reach,  because 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


when  we  reach  one  of  them  we  will 
reach  not  a  unit  but  a  group,  a 
family,  and  they  are  the  ones  to 
which  we  should  make  most  earnest 
appeal.  Now,  I  say,  if  you  want  to 
reach  that  class  of  men,  then  you 
must  send  that  class  of  men  to  them, 
or  you  will  not  reach  them — at  least 
so  effectively,  you  will  not  reach 
them.  That  is  the  kind  of  men  we 
want;  and  if  it  calls  for  sacrifice, 
then  let  us  make  the  necessary  sac- 
rifice, in  wisdom  of  course,  and 
judgment. 

There  is  just  one  other  thing 
connected  with  that  important  mat- 
ter that  I  would  like  to  call  at- 
tention to,  although  I  am  afraid  I 
am  trespassing  upon  the  time  of 
others,  but  it  is  this :  the  Lord  of 
heaven  takes  no  pride  in  ignorance. 
His  whole  purpose  is  to  give  out 
intelligence  and  to  save  men  through 
knowledge  of  correct  doctrine  and 
truth.  He  will  take  no  pride  in  an 
ignorant  ministry.  When  a  num- 
ber of  elders  assembled  in  Kirtland 
and  were  waiting  for  a  conference 
to  be  held  before  they  should  return 
to.  their  fields  of  labor,  they  asked 
the  prophet  what  the  Lord's  will  was 
concerning  them,  and  the  Lord  gave 
this  instruction : 

"I  give  unto  you  a  commandment, 
that  you  shall  teach  one  another  the 
doctrine  of  the  kingdom; 

"Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace 
shall  attend  you,  that  you  ma-"  be  in- 
structed more  perfectly  in  theory,  in- 
principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of 
the  Gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain 
unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are 
expedient  for  you  to  understand; 

"Of  things  both  in  heaven  and  in 
the  earth,  and  under  the  earth;  things 
which  have  been,  things  which  are, 
things  which  must  shortly  come  to 
pass;  things  which  are  at  home,  things 
which  are  abroad;  the  wars  and  the 
perplexities  of  the  nations,  and  the 
judgments  which  are  on  the  land,  and 


a  knowledge  also  of  countries  and  of 
kingdoms." 

And  why?  Here  is  represented  a 
very  extensive  field  of  knowledge. 
It  covers  every  possible  field  of 
knowledge,  why  are  the  elders  ad- 
monished, and  even  commanded  to 
become  acquainted  with  all  these 
things?  The  Lord  answers  that 
question : 

"That  ye  may  be  prepared  in  all 
things  when  I  shall  send  you  again 
to  magnify  the  calling  whereunto  I 
have  called  you,  and  the  mission  with 
which  I  have  commissioned  you." 

And  again,  in  the  same  revela- 
tion :  "As  all  have  not  faith — "  as 
all  are  not  able  to  attain  unto  knowl- 
edge by  faith — not  all  gifted  tb 
drink  at  the  very  fountain  head — 

"And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye 
diligently  and  teach  one  another  words 
of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ve  out  of  the  best 
books  words  of  wisdom:  seek  learning 
even  by  study,  and  also  by  faith." 

That  was  the  instruction  of  the 
Lord  to  the  elders  who  were  con- 
templating their  mission  to  the 
world,  and  that  was  what  was  re- 
quired of  them.  Again,  I  say,  since 
the  world's  stage  is  being  set  for  a 
wider  proclamation  of  the  Gospel, 
let  me  admonish  the  seventies, 
among  whom  I  stand,  and  with 
whom  I  more  especially  labor,  let 
me  say  to  them,  to  go  to,  now  fill 
your  minds  with  knowledge  and 
also  with  faith,  and  let  us  draw  to 
ourselves  that  spiritual  power  which 
comes  from  observing  the  laws  of 
the  Gospel;  that  when  the  great 
world's  war  shall  cease,  when  its  ter- 
rors shall  no  longer  appal  the  peo- 
ple, and  when  they  settle  down  to 
sober  contemplation  of  the  eternal 
verities,   as   they   will,   let   us  be 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


133 


prepared  to  teach  them  the  truth 
as  God  has  revealed  it,  and  thus  help 
in  the  great  period  of  reconstruction 
that  will  come  to  the  world,  and  that 
will  be  absolutely  necessary  to  the 
world.  That  is  my  admonition  to 
you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  Horace  S.  Ensign  sang  a 
baritone  solo,  entitled,  "Let  us 
Have  Peace." 

i 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

Brother  Smoot  yesterday  quoted 
one  of  our  articles  of  faith:  "We 
believe  all  that  God  has  revealed." 
I  have  been  thinking  about  it;  all 
that  God  has  revealed,  as  found  in 
the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  When  you  think 
of  it  'for  one  moment  it  requires  a 
great  big  belief  to  believe  all  that 
God  does  now  reveal;  "and  we  be- 
lieve that  He  will,  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertain- 
ing to  the  kingdom  of  God."  It  is 
not  very  difficult  for  a  Latter-day 
Saint  to  believe  all  that  has  been  re- 
vealed. To  me  it  is  all  true,  but  the 
great  trouble  I  am  having  is  to  make 
it  work.  (Laughter).  I  have  been 
trying  to  crystallize  what  faith  I 
have — and  I  might  say  that  I  haven't 
any  to  spare.  Why  not  find  out  one 
or  two  or  six  of  these  splendid 
things  that  have  been  revealed  and 
see  if  we  can  include  them  in  our 
work? 

After  listening  to  Brother  Rob- 
erts I  think  I  will  have  to  put  on 
what  they  call  the  "soft  pedals,"  be- 
cause those  things  stir  my  soul.  It 
is  my  calling ;  it  is  my  appointment. 
I  feel  it,  and  I  sense  it  just  as 
much  as  Brother  Roberts  does;  it 
sounds  to  me  like  mobilizing,  and  I 


think  that  is  the  meaning  of  all  this 
noise.  1  believe  it  will  take  time  to 
awaken  and  arouse  all  the  Seventies. 
We  will  have  to  get  our  choir  to 
sing,  "Hark,  listen  to  the  trumpet- 
ers !"  I  don't  know  but  what  it  will 
be  necessary  to  have  a  martial  band 
and  work  up  a  little  enthusiasm,  and 
play  on  the  imagination  of  these 
Seventies  for  a  while ;  it  won't  hurt 
them.  You  need  not  be  afraid  of 
getting  them  over  excited.  (Laugh- 
ter). We  are  almost  immune  to 
missionary  work  and  the  reason  for 
this  is,  we  haven't  been  called  upon 
for  a  long  time;  only  a  very  few 
Seventies  are  filling  foreign  mis- 
sions, at  present. 

The  presiding  bishop's  office  re- 
port shows  that  there  are  over  11,- 
000  Seventies.  I  wish  they  would 
get  busy  and  help  us  find  about  two 
thousand  of  that  number,  because 
they  are  not  yet  enrolled;  I  think 
we  have  decreased  that  number  since 
last  year.  We  have  that  great  body 
of  priesthood,  and  I  don't  think  any 
one  in  this  Church,  not  even  the 
General  Authorities,  realize  more 
than  we  do  the  condition,  the  finan- 
cial condition  that  our  brethren  are 
in.  We  find  that  it  is  because  of 
the  building  of  homes,  the  purchas- 
ing of  land,  and  a  great  many  other 
difficulties  that  have  come  to  them. 
They  have  had  sickness,  and  finan- 
cial, disappointment.  The  First 
Council  have  interviewed  a  great 
many  men  and  I  can  say  for  the 
Seventies,  as  far  as  I  am  personally 
concerned — and  I  have  interviewed 
just  as  many  as  any  of  the  Council 
has — that  we  have  few  cowards  in 
our  band,  but  some  of  them  have 
"served  tables"  so  long,  and  settled 
difficulties,  and  been  ward  teachers, 
and  slept  in  good  beds  and  remained 
home,  that  it  is  just  possible  some  of 
them  have  cowardly  thoughts ;  and 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  reason  for  this  is,  they  have  been 
at  home  so  long  they  have  become 
attached  to  their  homes,  and  they 
need  weaning.  (Laughter).  It  is 
a  very  great  responsibility. 

I  am  going  to  ask  you  a  few  ques- 
tions and  then  conclude  my  remarks. 
I  wonder  if  we  Seventies  know  what 
we  want?  I  know  my  father 
preached  once,  "that  to  want  a 
thing  and  you  can't  get  it  is  hell." 
Some  people  have  never  been  able 
to  find  out  what  they  want.  I  have 
learned  that  when  my  family  want 
anything  they  seem  to  want  it 
mighty  bad,  and  I  never  have  much 
peace  until  I  get  it  for  them.  Do 
we  see  and  understand  what  we 
want?  I  now  ask  you  in  all  solem- 
nity, brethren — and  you  might  as 
well  look  the  cannon  in  the  mouth ; 
as  this  is  no  Sunday  School  proposi- 
tion when  you  talk  about  preaching 
the  Gospel — don't  we  know,  haven't 
we  been?  I  know  something  about 
it ;  T  have  filled  two  missions.  I 
don't  look  like  I  would  ever  be  able 
to  go  again,  but  I  am  ready.  I 
hardly  think  I  could  pass  a  physical 
examination,  but  my  temperature  is 
all  right,  and  my  pulse  is  beating 
regularly,  and  I  am  ready  to  face 
the  music.  T  have  enough  faith  to 
accept  a  call. 

Do  you  want  to  "inherit  eternal 
life?"  Every  man  answer  for  him- 
self— no  use  trying  to  put  the  bur- 
den on  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
or  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 
Do  you  want  to  inherit  eternal  life? 
Are  you  willing  to  pay  the  price? 
Do  you  want  to  take  up  the  cross 
and  follow  vour  Master,  and  inherit 
eternal  life?  Remember  the  young 
man — T  wish  I  was  as  good  as  he 
was ;  he  observed  all  the  laws ;  but 
the  Savior  said :  "One  thing  thou 
lackest;"  and  what  did  He  tell  him? 
Did  He  ask  him  if  he  was  in  debt? 


no,  he  knew ;  he  knew  how  to  settle 
that  matter  at  once.  Sell  whatso- 
ever thou  hast,  and  give  to  the  poor, 
and  take  up  the  cross  and  follow 
Me,  and  thou  shalt  inherit  eternal 
life.  And  that  is  what  the  young 
man  thought  he  wanted,  when  he 
asked  the  Master,  "Good  Master, 
what  shall  I  do  that  I  may  inherit 
eternal  life?"  The  young  man  re- 
ceived his  answer,  and  he  went  away 
a  good  deal  sicker  than  a  lot  of 
these  Seventies  will  be  when  we  get 
after  them.  He  did  not  want  eter- 
nal life  at  the  price ;  he  did  not 
have  the  faith. 

Faith  is  a  process ;  faith  consists 
in  hard  work,  and  when  you  accept 
a  call  for  a  mission,  the  desire  must 
be  put  in  one's  soul  day  after  day. 
You  think  it  over  and  over,  and  then 
go  doggedly  back  to  it  and  keep  on 
asking  yourself,  What  is  it  I  really 
want?  You  will  have  an  awful 
time  answering  the  question.  If  you 
have  found  out  what  you  want,  then 
ni)-  advice  to  you  is  to  get  prepared 
for  it.  I  am  willing  to  be  one 
among  the  number.  I  am  willing  to 
sell  what  is  necessary  to  pay  my 
debts.  I  would  be  pleased  to  pay 
them.  We  will  have  to  take  care  of 
your  farms,  and  plow  your  land,  and 
put  in  your  grain  and  harvest  your 
crops :  we  will  have  to  help  the  wife 
with  the  children,  and  teach  the  boys 
to  work ;  and  then  we  will  go  out 
and  preach  the  Gospel,  if  you  will 
assist  us.  This  is  no  fifty-cent 
proposition.  If  you  brethren  can't 
go — you  rich  men  and  you  poor  men 
— then  put  up  your  money  like  men, 
and  we  will  do  the  work.  Money 
talks  when  it  comes  to  missionary 
work,  as  our  families  have  to  be 
cared  for.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  taught  the  doctrine  that  these 
Seventies  were  "not  to  serve  tables, 
and  they  were  not  to  settle  difficul- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


135 


ties,"  but  were  to  preach  the  Gospel 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  the 
Twelve  and  Seventy  have  particu- 
larly to  depend  upon  their  ministry 
for  their  support  and  that  of  their 
families ;  and  they  have  a  right,  by 
virtue  of  their  offices,  to  call  upon 
the  Churches  to  assist  them. 

I  have  the  spirit  of  the  Seventy 
calling,  I  feel  it  in  my'  hands ;  I  feel 
its  thrill  all  through  my  being,  and 
I  propose  to  breathe  it  into  every 
Seventy  that  comes  near  me.  So  if 
you  don't  like  it,  you  better  keep 
away  from  me.  I  want  eternal  life. 
I  want  salvation,  and  I  desire  to 
breathe  the  same  desire  into  my  wife 
and  children,  so  that  they  will  want 
to  partake  o'f  it,  and  be  willing  to 
make  some  sacrifice.  I  want  to 
breathe  it  unto  every  Seventy  that  I 
come  in  contact  with,  and  then  go 
out  into  the  world  and  see  God's 
children  partake  of  eternal  life  and 
salvation,  the  greatest  of  all  gifts 
that  God  can  give  to  His  children. 
I  want  it.  I  know  what  I  want,  and 
I  begin  to  find  out  what  it  will  cost. 
The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

This  congregation  will  be  pretty 
well  impressed  with  the  fact  that 
the  first  council  of  the  Seventy  are 
in  earnest  about  this  missionary 
work,  and  feel  the  responsibility 
that  has  been  placed  upon  the  Sev- 
enties relative  to  the  carrying  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  world.  I  have  re- 
joiced exceedingly  in  the  spirit  of 
this  conference  and  in  the  words 
that  have  been  spoken,  from  the 
opening  address  of  President  Smith 
which  filled  my  soul  with  delight,  to 
the  last  words  that  have  been 
spoken.  It  is  true  that  the  Lord 
has  instituted  the  office  of  a  Seventy 


for  the  express  purpose  of  pro- 
claiming the  word  of  God  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth ;  and  in  our  la- 
bors among  our  brethren  we  have 
discovered  this,  that  more  than  half 
of  them  have  already  filled  mis- 
sions in  the  world,  and,  although 
we  now  have  comparatively  few  do- 
ing missionary  work  out  of  the  vast 
army  of  the  Seventy,  there  are, 
however,  many  who  are  supporting 
their  sons  now  laboring  as  elders  in 
the  missionary  field — some  of  them 
having  two  or  three — the  expense 
of  whom  are  being  met  by  their 
fathers,  who  are  numbered  among 
the  Seventy.  So  I  don't  think  that 
we  ought  to  reproach  our  brethren 
of  the  Seventy  because  of  the  few- 
ness of  their  numbers  now  in  the 
field,  for  they  have  done  valiant  ser- 
vice, and  many  of  them  have  filled 
one  or  two,  and  some  of  them  three 
missions  abroad,  and  I  glory  in  the 
work  which  they  have  performed. 

Our  missionaries  labor,  it  has 
been  said,  without  pay  and  without 
compensation.  It  seems  to  me,  how- 
ever, that  this  is  a  very  great  mis- 
take, to  say  that  they  are  not  com- 
pensated for  their  work.  It  is  my 
faith  and  belief  that  all  who  labor 
for  Zion,  her  interests  and  welfare, 
both  at  home  and  abroad,  are  the 
best  paid  people  in  all  the  world. 
Their  names  are  upon  the  payroll, 
and  the  Lord  is  their  paymaster. 

We  read  in  the  epistle  of  James, 
in  the  New  Testament,  where  atten- 
tion is  called  to  an  ordinance  of  the 
Church  :  "Is  any  sick  among  you  ? 
let  him  call  for  the  elders  of  the 
church,  and  let  them  pray  over  him, 
anointing  him  with  oil  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  ;  and  the  prayer  of  faith 
shall  save  the  sick,  and  the  Lord 
shall  raise  him  up ;  and  if  he  have 
committed  sins,  they  shall  be  for- 
given him."    How  can  that  be? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Has  this  ordinance,  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  healing  of  the  sick, 
anything  to  do  with  bringing  about 
the  remission  of  sins?  We  know, 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  that  the  ordin- 
ance of  baptism  has  been  instituted 
in  the  Church  for  the  express  pur- 
pose of  bringing  us  the  remission 
of  sins  and  that  this  ordinance  of 
laying  on  hands  for  the  healing  of 
the  sick  is  different  from  that.  How 
do  you  obtain  remission  of  sins? 
Through  faith  in  God  and  repent- 
ance from  sin  and  being  buried  by 
baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins? 
And  what  follows  this  remission  of 
sins,  if  our  faith  has  been  sincere 
and  if  our  repentance  has  been 
genuine  ?  When  we  have  been  bur- 
ied by  baptism  for  the  remission  of 
those  sins,  we  come  forth  from 
that  watery  grave  sweet  and  clean, 
even  as  a  new-born  babe,  and  then 
only  are  we  prepared  to  receive  that 
other  ordinance,  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  reception  of  the  holy 
Spirit;  because  the  Spirit  of  God 
can  not  dwell  in  an  unclean  tab- 
ernacle. Our  sins  must  first  be 
remitted.  It  follows,  then,  that 
when  we  have  had  and  do  have  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  our  sins  have 
been  forgiven.  When  men  labor  in 
any  calling,  go  out  and  administer 
to  the  sick  and  enjoy  the  spirit  of 
their  calling,  they  have  the  Spirit 
of  God,  and  their  sins,  of  course, 
have  been  remitted  or  they  would 
not  have  that  Spirit.  So  with  you, 
my  brethren  of  the  Seventy,  if  you 
will  go  and  labor  and  magnify  your 
calling,  proclaiming  the  word  of 
God  and  enjoying  the  spirit  of 
your  mission,  which  is  the  Spirit  of 
God,  your  sins  have  been  remitted 
and  you  are  forgiven,  and  the  power 
of  God  will  be  upon  you.  That  is 
your  compensation  that  is  God's 
pay.    Labor  then  for  the  salvation 


of  souls,  and  God  will  reward  you. 
Therefore,  put  your  trust  in  Him 
and  receive  your  compensation,  the 
remission  of  your  sins,  the  compan- 
ionship of  God's  Spirit,  which  I 
pray  we  may  all  do,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  presented 
the  names  of  the  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church,  to  be  voted  upon 
by  the  assembly,  as  follows : 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman  as  President 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve.  Apostles  :  Francis  M.  Ly- 
man, Heber  J.  Grant,  Rudger  Claw- 
son,  Reed  Smoot,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F. 
Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and  James  E. 
Talmage. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
Presiding  Patriarch,  as  Prophets, 
Seers  and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seven- 
ties;  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham 
H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and, Levi 
Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Orrin  P.  Miller  and 
David  A.  Smith,  as  his  first  and  sec- 
ond Counselors. 


AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED. 


137 


Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  body  of  religious  wor- 
shipers known  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His- 
torian and  General  Church  Re- 
corder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
August  William  Lund,  assistant 
Historians. 

As  members  of  the  General 
Church  Board  of  Education :  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith,  Willard  Young, 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  George  H.  Brim- 
hall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Charles  W. 
Penrose,  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
Orson  F.  Whitney  and  Francis  M. 
Lyman. 

Arthur  Winter,  as  Secretary  and 
Treasurer  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  General 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools. 

Board  of  Examiners  for  Church 
Schools :  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
chairman :  George  H.  Brimhall, 
Willard  Young  and  C.  N.  Jensen. 

Auditing  committee :  William  W. 
Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John  C. 
Cutler.  Heber  Scowcroft  and  Jo- 
seph S.  Wells. 

Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  j  Provo  :  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Jesse  Knight,  Wilson  H. 
Dusenberry.  Reed  Smoot,  Willard 
Young,  Susie  Young  Gates,  Richard 
W.  Young,  Lafayette  Holbrook, 
Stephen  L.  Chipman,  Jonathan  S. 
Page,  jun.,  Joseph  R.  Murdock,  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  jun. 

Tabernacle  choir :  Evan  Stephens, 
conductor ;  Horace  S.  Ensign,  as- 
sistant conductor;  John  J.  McClel- 
lan,  organist;  Edward  P.  Kimball 
and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  assistant  or- 
ganists;  George  C.  Smith,  Secre- 
tarary  and  Treasurer;  John  Drake- 


ford  librarian ;  and  all  the  members. 

Duncan  M.  McAllister  as  Clerk 
of  the  Conference. 

Each  and  all  of  those  named  were 
duly  sustained  in  the  positions  des- 
ignated, by  unanimous  vote  of  the 
Conference. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

CLOSING  ADDRESS. 

Knowledge  of  Gospel  principles  most 
essential  for  missionary  service — 
Other  missionary  requisites,  are, 
love  and  humility— First  Presidency 
annoyed  by  unnecessary  questions — 
Indignant  repudiation  of  false  state- 
ment concerning  attitude  on  prohi- 
biten— Saints  advised  to  endeavor 
to  perfect  their  lives — Import  nee 
of  teachers'  duties— The  Saints  en- 
joined to  pray. 

I  want  to  read  a  passage  of  the 
scripture  which  will  apply  not  only 
to  the  Seventies  but  to  all  the  Saints  : 

"Wherefore,  honest  men,  and  wise 
men  should  be  sought  for  dligently. 
and  good  men  and  wise  men,  ye  should 
observe  to  uphold;  otherwise  whatso- 
ever is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil. 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment, that  ye  shall  forsake  all  evil 
and  cleave  unto  all  good,  that  ye  shall 
live  by  every  word  which  proceedeth 
forth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God; 

"For  He  will  give  unto  the  faithful 
line  upon  line,  precept  uoon  precept; 
and  I  will  try  you  and  prove  you  here- 
with : 

"And  whoso  layeth  down  his  life  in 
my  cause,  for  My  name's  sake,  shall 
find  it  again,  even  life  eternal: 

"Therefore  be  not  afraid  of  your 
enemies,  for  I  have  decreed  in  My 
heart,  sayeth  the  Lord,  that  I  will 
prove  you  in  all  things,  whether  you 
will  abide  in  My  covenant,  even  unto 
death,  that  you  may  be  found  worthy; 

"For  if  ye  will  not  abide  in  My 
covenant,  ye  are  not  worthy  of  Me." 

I  think  that  this  passage  of  scrip- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ture  opens  to  us  a  vast  field  and 
subject  for  thought  and  reflection, 
for  research,  and  careful  attention. 
I  believe  in  all  the  words  that  have 
been  spoken  by  the  Holy  Prophets 
concerning  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the 
earth.  I  believe  it  is  good  to  seek 
knowledge  out  of  the  best  books,  to 
learn  the  histories  of  nations,  to  be 
able  to  comprehend  the  purposes  of 
God  with  reference  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth ;  and  I  believe  that  one  of 
the  most  important  things  and  per- 
haps more  important  to  us  than 
studying  the  history  of  the  world,  is 
that  we  study  and  become  thorough- 
ly acquainted  with  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  that  they  may  be  estab- 
lished in  our  hearts  and  souls,  above 
all  other  things,  to  qualify  us  to  go 
out  into  the  world  to  preach  and 
teach  them.  We  may  know  all  about 
the  philosophy  of  the  ages  and  the 
history  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  ; 
we  may  study  the  wisdom  and 
knowledge  of  man  and  get  all  the 
information  that  we  can  acquire  in 
a  lifetime  of  research  and  study,  but 
all  of  it  put  together  will  never 
qualify  any  one  to  become  a  minis- 
ter of  the  Gospel  unless  he  has  the 
knowledge  and  spirit  of  the  first 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

Another  thing — one  of  the  indis- 
pensible  qualifications  of  the  Elders 
who  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach 
is  humility,  meekness  and  love  un- 
feigned, for  the  well-being  and  the 
salvation  of  the  human  family,  and 
the  desire  to  establish  peace  and 
righteousness  in  the  earth  among 
men.  We  can  not  preach  the  gospel 
of  Christ  without  this  spirit  of  hu- 
mility, meekness,  faith  in  God  and 
reliance  upon  His  promises  and 
word  to  us.    You  may  learn  all  the 


wisdom  of  men,  but  that  will  not 
qualify  you  to  do  these  things  like 
the  humble,  guiding  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  will.  "Pride  goeth 
before  destruction,  and  an  haughty 
spirit  before  a  fall." 

It  is  necessary  for  the  Elders  who 
go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  to 
study  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  which 
is  the  spirit  of  humility,  the  spirit  of 
meekness  and  of  true  devotion  to 
whatever  purpose  you  set  your  hand 
or  your  mind  to  do.  If  it  is  to 
preach  the  gospel,  we  should  devote 
ourselves  to  the  duties  of  that  min- 
istry, and  we  ought  to  strive  with 
the  utmost  of  our  ability  to  qualify 
ourselves  to  perform  that  specific 
labor,  and  the  way  to  do  it  is  to 
live  so  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will 
have  communion  and  be  present 
with  us  to  direct  us  in  every  mo- 
ment and  hour  of  our  ministry, 
night  and  day.  It  is  surprising  to 
hear  the  multitude  of  questions  that 
are  continuously  sent  to  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  and  to  others 
of  my  brethren  who  are  in  leading 
positions,  for  information  upon 
some  of  the  most  simple  things  that 
pertain  to  the  Gospel.  Hundreds 
of  questions,  communications,  and 
letters  are  sent  to  us  from  time  to 
time  asking  information  and  in- 
struction on  matters  that  are  so 
plainly  written  in  the  revelations  of 
God — contained  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and 
the  Bible — it  seems  that  any  one 
who  can  read  should  understand. 
Why  Elders  and  Bishops  and  mis- 
sionaries should  be  under  the  neces- 
sity of  writing  to  inquire  about 
many  of  these  things  is  mysterious 
to  me.  They  have  the  books  and 
other  sources  of  information  within 
their  reach ;  they  should  have  every 
facility  to  acquire  the  knowledge 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


139 


that  is  necessary  to  fit  them  for  their 
duties,  if  they  will  only  pay  attention 
to  them ;  but  they  don't  always  do  it. 
Some  people  seem  to  like  to  ask 
questions.  I  have  been  so  bored  at 
times  with  questioners  that  I  have 
said  to  them:  "Answer  your  own 
questions  yourselves  and  submit 
them  to  me,  and  I  will  tell  you 
whether  you  are  right  or  wrong,  as 
near  as  I  can.  But  if  we  were  to 
devote  ourselves  to  answering  ques- 
tions that  the  Bishop  should  answer 
for  the  people,  and  attend  to  du- 
ties that  should  be  attended  to  by 
the  Teachers  in  the  wards,  we  would 
have  very  little  time  for  doing  any- 
thing else.  When  the  brethren  and 
sisters  want  to  know  anything  about 
temple  work,  about  the  ordinances, 
about  the  precepts  and  principles  of 
the  Gospel  or  the  obligations  of 
members  in  the  Church,  let  them  go 
to  their  Bishops  and  find  out;  and, 
if  the  Bishops  can't  inform  them, 
let  them  go  to  the  presidents  of  their 
stakes,  and  let  the  president  of  the 
stake  and  his  counselors  and  the 
Bishop  and  his  counselors  get  to- 
gether, if  necessary,  and  answer  the 
question.  Then  if  they  are  not  sat- 
isfied about  it  let  them  appeal  to  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  or  to  the 
Twelve,  or  the  Seventy  or  Presid- 
ing Bishopric  as  the  case  may  re- 
quire, and  possibly  we  may  help  you 
out. 

There  is  a  disposition — I  feel  al- 
most indignant  to  refer  to  it  at  all, 
but  I  am  led  to  believe  that  there  is 
a  feeling  and  disposition  on  the  part 
of  some  of  our  brethren  to  miscon- 
strue my  position,  my  feeling  and 
my  desire  with  reference  to  the  tem- 
perance question.  I  thought  I  ex- 
pressed myself  here  last  night  as 
plainly  as  a  man  could  do  it,  and 
yet  the  very  remarks  that  I  made 
here  last  evening,  before  the  priest- 


hood meeting,  have  been,  I  am 
told,  so  misinterpreted  and  miscon- 
strued that  I  am  beset  to  know  what 
I  meant,  and  as  Brother  Golden 
said :  "I  am  going  to  tell  you  some- 
thing." I  started  out  in  this  minis- 
try in  1854,  a  boy  of  fifteen  years  of 
age.  From  that  hour  until  now  I 
have  never  relented  nor  relaxed,  one 
moment,  in  my  advocacy  of  abstin- 
ence from  strong  drink,  and  my  ad- 
vocacy of  temperance  and  prohibi- 
tion, wherever  prohibition  can  be  ef- 
fected ;  I  believe  in  it.  I  believe  that 
the  time  will  come  and  that  it  is 
close  by,  when  the  people  of  this 
stalte  will  have  to  join  in  the  proces- 
sion of  other  states  and  adopt  a  law 
of  state-wide  prohibition ;  I  believe 
the  time  will  come  when  they  will 
be  forced  to  do  it,  to  keep  in  line 
with  the  other  states  in  the  Union. 

I  am  delighted  with  the  effort  that 
is  being  put  forth  in  Great  Britain — 
the  motherland  and  the  fatherhr""1 
of  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  one  of  the  most  fruitful  nurs- 
eries of  the  Church,  where  people 
have  been  let  loose  to  indulge  in 
drunkenness,  to  wallow  in  the  de- 
basing evils  of  the  "public  house," 
the  "beer  shop"  and  to  indulge  in 
every  species  of  licentiousness 
which  leads  to  degradation  and  'pov- 
erty. Many  of  the  mayors  of  the 
great  boroughs  and  cities  are  prin- 
cipal owners  of  the  ale  houses,  and 
dispensaries  of  intoxicating  drinks. 
Now  the  authorities  of  that  great 
nation,  the  leaders  of  the  people  are 
waking  up  to  these  monstrous  evils 
and  are  setting  to  work  with  a  will 
and  a  determination  to  establish 
temperance  in  that  land.  It  will  be 
the  salvation  of  our  mother  country, 
if  they  will  only  do  it  as  Russia  has 
done  it.  I  propose  to  continue  to 
preach  abstinence  and  to  advocate 
the  cause  of  temperance ;  I  not  only 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


believe  in  and  will  advocate  this,  but 
I  will  also  advocate  and  strive  to  the 
best  of  my  ability  to  use  every  op- 
portunity or  power  within  my  reach 
for  prohibition,  in  wisdom,  and  not 
in  unwisdom.  If  I  go  to  any  extreme 
at  all,  in  any  matter,  I  hope  it  will 
be  in  the  cause  of  justice,  truth, 
temperance,  righteousness  and  hon- 
esty of  life  and  purpose.  I  may  get 
extreme  in  matters  of  that  kind,  but 
I  may  not  be  so  extreme  as  some 
people  are  in  questions  of  policy. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  our 
conference.  I  feel  that  we  have  been 
blessed  in  our  assemblies  ;  that  much 
has  been  said  of  a  very  important 
and  precious  character  to  us,  and  I 
sincerely  hope  that  the  spirit  of  the 
conference  will  abide  with  us,  will 
go  with  us  to  our  homes,  and  that 
we  will  be  able  to  continue  to  build 
on  the  foundations  of  the  Gospel  of 
the  Son  of  God  until  we  become  per- 
fect even  as  our  Father  in  heaven  is 
perfect,  according  to  the  sphere  and 
intelligence  that  we  act  in  and  pos- 
sess. I  do  not  expect  that  any  of 
us  will  ever  become  in  mortality 
quite  so  perfect  as  God  is  perfect ; 
but  in  the  spheres  in  which  we  are 
called  to  act,  and  according  to  the 
capacjty  and  breadth  of  intelligence 
that  we  possess,  in  our  sphere  and 
in  the  exercise  of  the  talent,  the 
ability  and  intelligence  that  God  has 
given  to  us,  we  may  become  as  per- 
fect in  our  sphere  as  God  is  perfect 
in  His  higher  and  more  exalted 
sphere.   I  believe  that. 

Now  may  the  Lord  bless  Israel. 
May  He  bless  our  presiding  Patri- 
arch, who  will  give  us  a  parting 
blessing  in  the  adjournment  of  this 
conference.  May  the  Lord  bless 
the  presidents  of  the  stakes  of  Zion 
and  their  counselors,  and  the  high 
councils  of  the  stakes,  and  the  Bish- 
ops and  their  counselors,  and  all 


who  are  called  to  act  in  the  very  im- 
portant callings  as  teachers  among 
the  people.  I  don't  know  of  any 
duty  that  is  more  sacred,  or  more 
necessary,  if  it  is  carried  out  as  it 
should  be,  than  the  duties  of  the 
teachers  who  visit  the  homes  of  the 
people,  who  pray  with  them,  who 
admonish  them  to  virtue  and  honor, 
to  unity,  to  love,  and  to  faith  in  and 
fidelity  to  the  cause  of  Zion ;  who 
strive  to  settle  uncertainties  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  and  bring  them 
to  the  standard  of  the  knowledge 
that  they  should  possess  in  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  May  all  the 
people  open  their  doors,  call  in  the 
members  of  their  families  and  re- 
spect the  visits  of  the  teachers  to 
their  homes,  and  join  with  them  in 
striving  to  bring  about  a  better  con- 
dition, if  possible,  in  the  home  than 
ordinarily  exists.  If  you  can  ad- 
vance, try  to  aid  the  teachers  to 
help  you  make  that  advancement. 

May  God  bless  Israel  in  all  her 
abidings.  Remember  our  Eld^-s 
who  are  laboring  throughout  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  in  your 
prayers ;  and  remember  your 
prayers,  for  the  Lord  has  enjoined 
it  upon  us  that  we  shall  pray,  morn- 
ing and  evening.  And  the  prophets 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  have  en- 
joined upon  us  that  we  should  carry 
with  us  always  the  spirit  of  prayer 
in  our  hearts,  morning,  noon  and 
night,  and  that  we  should  pray  for 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  our 
families,  our  farms,  our  flocks,  our 
herds,  our  business,  and  everything 
that  we  possess  in  the  world.  Do 
not  forget  to  pray.  Don't  suppose 
for  a  moment  that  you  are  as  safe 
and  secure  in  the  favor  of  the  Lord 
when  you  feel  independent  of  Him 
as  you  will  be  if  you  feel  your  de- 
pendence upon  Him  all  the  day  long. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 


PATRIARCH  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 


141 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

PATRIARCH  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 

BLESSING  AND  BENEDICTION. 

Our  Father  who  art  in  heaven,  at 
the  close  of  this  conference  we  re- 
turn unto  Thee  the  thanks  and  the 
gratitude  of  our  hearts  'for  Thy 
many  kindnesses  unto  us,  for  the 
words  that  have  been  spoken,  for 
the  revelation  of  Thy  works  and  the 
work  of  Thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and 
of  His  life  and  mission  in  the  world. 
We  pray  Thee  to  bless  and  sanctify 
the  teachings  given  at  this  confer- 
ence to  the  good  of  Thy  people,  and 
the  furtherance  of  Thy  work  here 
upon  the  earth.  Wilt  Thou  sanctify 
the  songs  and  music  which  have 
been  heard  in  this  conference,  to  the 
good  of  all  those  who  have  heard 
the  same. 

Wilt  Thou  remember  Thy  people 
who  have  been  gathered  together 
here  in  conference.  Let  Thy  peace 
and  blessings  go  with  them  to  their 
homes,  that  they  may  have  with 
them  a  constant  and  thorough  un- 
derstanding of  Thy  word  as  it  has 
been  taught  here  ;  that  they  may  not 
misconstrue  any  of  the  teachings, 
and  that  they  may  have  moral  cour- 
age and  strength  to  obey  them  in 
their  lives,  that  they  may  thereby  be 
worthy  to  receive  Thy  blessings. 

Now  Father,  as  Thy  servant 
whom  thou  hast  called  to  bless  Thy 
people,  I  seal  upon  this  great  multi- 
tude in  this  conference  the  blessings 
which  Thou  art  willing  to  bestow 


upon  us,  Thy  people,  and  upon  Thy 
servants  whom  Thou  has  called  to 
preside  and  to  teach  Thy  people. 
Wilt  Thou  bless  those  who  have 
heard  these  teachings,  that  they  may 
take  them  to  their  homes  and  put 
them  into  practice. 

Help  us,  O  Father,  to  do  Thy  will 
and  to  receive  Thy  blessings  with 
humility  and  gratitude.  Let  Thy 
blessings  go  with  this  people  to  then- 
homes,  that  no  ill  or  evil  shall  befall 
them,  that  they  may  go  with  Thy 
benediction,  with  Thy  smile  and  ap- 
probation upon  them ;  may  they  by 
their  good  works,  by  their  testi- 
monies, and  by  their  loving  kindnec  ■ 
to  their  neighbors,  influence  many 
.  others  of  Thy  children  to  learn  the 
truths  Thou  hast  made  known. 

Dismiss  us  now  with  Thy  bless- 
ings, help  us  in  all  our  endeavor-;  to 
serve  Thee  and  keep  Thy  command- 
ments, and  unto  Thee  we  will 
ascribe  the  honor  and  the  praise  for- 
ever, through  Thy  Son,  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

Prof.  Evan  Stephens  conducted 
the  singing  of  the  choir  and  congre- 
gation at  the  Conference  meetings 
in  the  Tabernacle,  assisted  by 
Horace  S.  Ensign;  and  Prof.  John 
J.  McClellan  played  the  accompani- 
ments, assisted  by  Tracy  Y.  Can- 
non, and  Levi  N.  Harmon,  Jr. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  by  Elders 
Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  Frederick 
E.  Barker,  Frederick  G.  Barker,  and 
Clarence  Cramer. 

Duncan  M.  McAllister. 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


From  Elders  and  Saints  Abroad. 


To  the  presidency  and  general  au- 
thorities of  the  priesthood,  and  to 
all  the  Saints  in  the  stakes  and 
wards  and  organizations  of  the 
Church  in  Zion,  love  and  greeting. 

We,  the  Elders  and  members  of 
the  Church  of  Christ,  scattered  in 
the  nations  of  Europe,  beseech  for 
you  a  splendid  outpouring  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  in  the  annual  confer- 
ence, and  the  continued  showering 
down  of  the  choicest  favors  and 
blessings  of  God  upon  you  in  all 
your  abiding  places. 

You  reside  in  the  promised  land, 
where  the  Lord  has  tenderly  gath- 
ered you;  we  are  yet  scattered 
abroad  in  the  earth.  Your  feet  are 
planted  in  pleasant  places  and  all 
your  paths  are  peace ;  we  are  among 
a  people  multitudes  of  whom  find 
pleasure  only  in  unrighteousness 
and  tread  the  downward  paths  that 
lead  to  destruction  and  death.  You 
are  privileged  to  meet  and  worship 
the  Lord  in  undisturbed  tranquility : 
we  meet  under  unfavorable  circum- 
stances, some  of  our  branches  hav- 
ing been  disorganized  and  many  of 
our  meetings  suspended.  Your  pray- 
ers and  songs  of  praise  ascend  in 
sweet  cadence  and  joyous  strains  to 
the  ears  of  the  God  of  Sabaoth  ;  ours 
too,  have  been  heard  and  answered. 
The  word  of  the  Lord  falls  upon 
your  ears  as  a  benediction  from  the 
lips  of  inspired  men  whose  hearts 
are  very  near  the  Lord,  while  the 
elders  are  being  rapidly  withdrawn 
from  us  and  we  feel  keenly  their  ab- 
sence. You  dwell  in  beautiful 
homes  among  the  pure  in  heart, 


while  we  are  surrounded  by  Baby- 
lon. You  inhabit  the  hills  and  val- 
leys of  Zion,  and  through  the  favor 
of  God  and  the  blessings  of  in- 
dustry the  earth  yields  in  her  abun- 
dance and  strength ;  in  Europe  the 
hills  and  valleys  are  torn  and  fur- 
rowed by  trench  and  shell,  and  have 
become  graveyards  and  fields  of 
slaughter,  and  the  otherwise  fruitful 
ground  is  soaked  in  blood  and  glut- 
ted with  the  bodies  of  men.  Your 
children  ''grow  up  like  calves  of  the 
stall,"  fed  by  the  choicest  inspira- 
tion of  heaven  and  through  your 
sons  have  the  people  of  many  na- 
tions been  blessed ;  our  children  are 
surrounded  by  fearful  temptations, 
and  they  face  unpromising  pros- 
pects— some  are  already  orphaned 
and  some  are  denied  the  presence 
and  protection  of  fathers  and  older 
brothers,  and  the  minds  of  others 
are  full  of  dread  of  the  future. 

Nevertheless,  we  rejoice  with  you 
in  all  the  blessings  of  prosperity 
and  peace  enjoyed  by  the  body  of 
the  Church  in  Zion.  We  also  are 
of  the  "body  of  Christ,  but  members 
in  particular,"  members  far  removed 
from  the  head  and  trunk,  but  for  all 
that,  none  the  less  a  part  of  the 
body,  and  we  are  deeply  interested 
in  the  welfare  of  the  whole.  We 
rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that,  while 
we  may  be  the  "less  honorable,  and 
weaker  members,"  yet  we  are  not 
forgotten  by  the  body  which  feels 
after  us  and  is  kindly  solicitous  of 
our  well-being. 

In  behalf  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  the  nations  of  Europe,  we  thank 


EPISTLE  FROM  EUROPE. 


143 


you,  the  body  of  the  Saints  and  each 
member  composing  the  body,  for 
your  considerate  remembrance  of  us 
in  your  recent  liberal,  contributions 
to  assist  those  of  your  members  in 
these  countries,  who,  because  of 
wars  and  contentions,  have  been  re- 
duced to  privation  and  want.  The 
Church  has  ever  been  mindful  of  her 
children  and  we  who  now  have  an- 
other instance  of  her  mercy,  extend 
to  you  our  heartfelt  gratitude  and 
humbly  acknowledge  the  open  hand 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  whom  we 
love  and  whom  we  worship  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son  and 
our  Redeemer.  As  it  has  been 
clearly  shown  that  we  have  need  of 
you,  so  do  we  pray  that  we  may 
have  power,  through  faith  in  God 
the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  to  remain  true  to  the  Gospel 
we  have  received,  and  seek  to  work 
righteousness  in  the  earth  that  you 
may  also  ever  feel  that  you  have 
need  of  us. 

In  all  our  tribulations  we  rejoice 
in  the  knowledge  and  testimony  of 
the  truth,  and  count  it  a  favor  that 
we  are  found  worthy  to  suffer  af- 
fliction for  Christ's  sake  and  the 
Gospel's.  We  beseech  you,  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  pray  for  us  that  we 
may  receive  faith  and  strength  to 


endure  to  the  end  so  that,  if  not  in 
this  life,  then  in  the  life  to  come, 
we  may  be  saved  and  found  worthy 
to  dwell  with  you  in  the  Celestial 
kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

In  the  love  of  God  and  the  fellow- 
ship of  Jesus  Christ,  we  salute  all 
the  Saints  who  have  covenanted  to 
serve  the  Most  High  "and  the  Lord 
make  you  to  increase  and  abound  in 
love  one  toward  another,  and  to- 
ward all  men,  even  as  we  do  toward 
you,  to  the  end  that  He  may  estab- 
lish us  in  holiness  toward  God,  even 
the  Father,  at  the  coming  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  with  all  His 
Saints."  Amen. 

Hyrum  M.  Smith. 

Liverpool,  Eng.,  March  23,  1915. 

P.  S. — The  elders  still  remaining 
in  these  lands  are  in  good  health, 
and  only  need  the  cheerful  en- 
couragement of  their  loved  ones  in 
Zion  in  order  to  remain  in  good 
spirits  and  hope. 

Let  not  the  parents,  relatives  and 
friends  of  the  missionaries  worry 
and  fret,  we  are  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  and  we  know,  as  you  must 
know,  that  He  can  take  care  of  us 
and  preserve  us  while  we  are  here, 
as  well  as  He  could  if  we  were  home 
with  you. 

H.  m.  s. 


