NINETIETH  SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 
Hall,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  October  3rd, 
4th  and  5th,  1919,  with  a  Full  Report 
of  the  Discourses 

40  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


Book  Stores  Combine 
for  Bigger  Service 

The  Sunday  School  Union  Book  Store  and  the  Deseret 
News  Book  Store  have  heen  combined  under  a  single  man- 
agement. Both  stores  will  continue  in  business,  however, 
at  their  present  respective  locations. 

The  change  was  made  to  bring  about  a  bigger  and  bet- 
ter service — the  kind  of  service  that  always  results  from  a 
close  union  of  interests.  The  best  merchandising  traditions 
of  both  stores  will  be  preserved,  while  a  common  service 
standard  will  be  maintained. 

To  serve  the  best  interests  of  the  reading  public 
promptly,  efficiently  and  intelligently  will  be  the  constant 
aim  of  the  combined  institutions.  They  have  served  well 
in  the  past  and  built  up  an  immense  patronage,  but  con- 
stant improvement  in  every  detail  of  book  merchandising 
will  be  the  guiding  slogan  of  both  stores. 

The  combined  stores  have  facilities  for  handling  the 
vast  trade  of  the  intermountain  country.  Patrons  that  can- 
not visit  the  stores  in  person  can  be  efficiently  served 
through  a  careful  and  prompt  mailing  department. 

You  are  always  welcome  to  visit  our  stores  and  browse 
among  the  books.   Write  for  book  lists,  mailing  rates,  etc. 

Send  for  New  1920  Catalog 

SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION  BOOK  STORE 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

6  Main  Street 


Ninetieth  Annual  Conference 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Chris!  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


FIRST  DAY 

The  Ninetieth  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  ot  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake. 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.  Friday,  October  3,  1919,  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger 
Clawson*,  George  F.  Richards*,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage, 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard ;  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith;  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  and  Charles  H.  Hartf ;  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith  and  John  Wells ; 
Assistant  Historians,  Andrew  Jenson,  and  A.  William  Lund.  There 
were  a  large  number  of  Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors, 
Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  wards,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers, 
men  and  women,  representing  various  quorums,  and  organizations 
of  the  Church. 

The  following  Presidents  of  missions  were  in  attendance :  Charles 
A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  George  W.  McCune,  Eastern  States; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Northern 
States ;  Heber  C.  Iverson,  North-western  States ;  John  M.  Knight, 
Western  States ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ;  Nephi  Jensen, 
Canada;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexican;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  In- 
formation, Temple  Block. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  congregation,  which  prac- 
tically filled  the  great  auditorium  and  the  galleries,  to  order. 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington;  and  George  Albert  Smith, 
presiding  over  the  British  mission. 

tLevi  Edgar  Young,  detained  by  his  duties  in  the  University  of  Utah, 
was  present  at  some  of  the  subsequent  meetings. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear. 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may  appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 
"Tis  better  far  for  us  to  strive, 
Our  useless  cares  from  us  to  drive, 
Do  this,  and  joy  your  hearts  will  swell — 

All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

Why  should  we  mourn,  or  think  our  lot  is  hard? 
'Tis  not  so;  all  is  right! 

Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 
If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 

Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 

Our  God  will  never  us  forsake; 

And  soon  we'll  have  this  tale  to  tell- 
All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 

Far  away  in  the  West; 
Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make  afraid; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blest. 
We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring, 
Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King;  . 
Above  the  rest  these  words  we'll  tell — 
.  All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  all  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too, 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 
But  if  our  lives  are  spared  again 
To  see  the  Saints  their  rest  obtain, 
O  how  we'll  make  this  chorus  swell — 

All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson, 
f  the  presidency  of  the  Granite  stake  of  Zion. 
The  choir  and  congregationg  sang: 

Do  what  is  right;  the  day-dawn  is  breaking, 

Hailing  a  future  of  freedom  and  light; 
Angels  above  us  are  silent  notes  taking 

Of  every  action;  do  what  is  right! 
CHORUS  : 

Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence  follow; 

Batle  for  freedom  in  spirit  and  might. 
And  with  stout  hearts  look  ye  forth  till  tomorrow; 

God  will  protect  you,  do  what  is  right! 

Do  what  is  right;  the  shackles  are  falling; 

Chains  of  the  bondsmen  no  longer  are  bright; 
Lighten'd  by  hope,  soon  they'll  cease  to  be  galling; 

Truth  goeth  onward:  do  what  is  right! 

Do  what  is  right;  be  faithful  and  fearless, 
Onward,  press  onward,  the  goal  is  in  sight; 

Eyes  that  are  wet  now,  ere  long  will  be  tearless; 
Blessings  av/ait  you;  do  what  is  right. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  again  at  having  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the 
Saints  in  general  conference.  It  was  a  source  of  great  regret  to  all 
of  us  that  we  could  not  hold  our  April  conference  because  of  health 
conditions  throughout  the  state.  I  am  gratified,  seeing  that  our  post- 
poned conference  was  only  last  June,  that  we  have  as  large  an  attend- 
ance as  we  have  here  today. 

DEPENDENCE  UPON  THE  LORD 

In  standing  before  you  today  I  feel  my  weakness  and  my  de- 
pendence upon  the  Lord,  and  I  pray  for  the  faith,  sympathy  and  good 
will  of  all  who  are  here  assembled,  that  what  I  may  say  shall  be  for 
their  benefit  as  well  as  for  my  own.  I  can  hardly  realize  that  I  am 
standing  here  as  your  representative,  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  When 
I  think  of  the  men  who  have  occupied  this  position,  from  President 
Brigham  Young  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  I  indeed  feel  weak, 
but  my  faith  and  my  knowledge  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged  are  so  perfect  that  I  have  no  doubt  whatever 
that  the  Lord  will  give  to  me,  with  vhe  aid  of  my  counselors  and  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  with  whom  I  meet  in  council  every  week,  the 
inspiration  to  guide  and  direct  the  affairs  of  this  Church  in  a  way 
and  manner  which  will  be  pleasing  and  acceptable  to  him.  I  have  the 
same  faith  as  that  expressed  by  Nephi  of  old:  namely,  that  the  Lord 
requires  no  labor  or  work  at  the  hands  of  man  but  what  he  will  prepare 
a  way  whereby  that  labor  can  be  accomplished.  If  I  know  my  own 
heart,  it  is'  set  absolutely  upon  seeking  for  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the 
Lord,  and, then  laboring,  to  the  full  extent  of  the  ability  with  which 
I  am  endowed,  to  accomplish  his  purposes. 

THE  HYMN,  "COME,  COME,  YE  SAINTS" 

Yesterday,  or  the  day  before,  when  I  received  a  list  of  the  songs 
that  would  be  sung  during  this  conference,  I  read  them  over  without 
any  particular  thought  as  to  their  meaning  or  inspiration,  but  this 
morning  while  lying  in  bed  thinking  of  this  conference,  I  remembered 
that  the  first  hymn  that  we  were  to  sing  here  today  was,  "Come,  come, 
ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear."  I  concluded  to  make  that  my  text 
for  my  opening  remarks,  and  then  speak  as  I  might  be  led  during  the 
remainder  of  the  time  I  should  occupy.  To  me  this  is  a  wonderful 
hymn,  and  the  circumstances  under  which  it  was  written,  as  I  have 
been  informed,  give  it  an  additional  interest  to  me.  I  understand  that 
when  the  pioneers  were  about  to  start  across  the  trackless  wilderness, 
to  go  a  thousand  miles  to  a  place  they  knew  not  where,  a  place  that 
President  Brigham  Young  had  seen  in  vision,  he  said  to  Elder  William 
Clayton,  "William,  go  and  write  a  hymn  that  the  Saints  may  sing  at 
their  camp  fires,  that  shall  be  an  inspiration  and  an  encouragement  to 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them  in  their  journey  across  the  plains,"  and  Brother  Clayton  withdrew 
and  returned  in  a  couple  of  hours  with  this  great  pioneer  hymn  that 
we  have  just  sung.  I  was  asked  in  Liverpool,  by  President  Lyman, 
the  day  I  arrived  there  to  preside  over  the  European  mission,  which 
of  all  the  hymns  was  my  favorite,  and  he  said,  "We  will  sing  it  tonight !" 
I  told  him  I  had  none,  that  there  were  many  of  the  hymns  I  loved 
dearly,  but  I  had  never  selected  any  one  as  my  special  favorite.  He 
said,  "My  favorite  is  'School  thy  feelings,  oh,  my  brother,  Train  thy 
warm,  impulsive  soul ;'  President  Snow's  favorite  was,  'Zion  stands  with 
hills  surrounded;  *  *  *  All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded;'  John 
Henry  Smith's  was,  'Up,  awake,  ye  defenders  of  Zion ;'  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff's  was,  -'God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way  his  wonders  to 
perform ;'  and  President  Lyman  said  that  Presidentt  Brigham  Young's 
was,  "Oh,  ye  mountains  high ;"  but  I  have  since  been  told  by  one  of  his 
daughters  that  this  is  a  mistake,  that  his  favorite  was  Brother  William 
Clayton's  hymn,  "When  first  the  glorious  light  of  truth,  burst  forth  in 
this  last  age,  How  few  there  were  with  heart  and  soul,  to  obey  it  did 
engage."  President  Daniel  H.  Wells'  favorite  was,  "Oh,  ye  mountains 
high."  I  said,  "Brother  Lyman,  you  don't  need  to  go  any  further; 
I  will  pick  mine  inside  of  a  minute.  I  will  take,  "Come,  come,  ye 
Saints, '  as  my  favorite." 

I  believe  that  William  Clayton  was  inspired  of  the  Lord  when  he 
wrote  this  hymn,  and  also  the  other  hymn  that  was  President  Young's 
favorite.  It  was  a  wonderful  trip  the  Pioneers  were  about  to  make.  I 
can  never  think  of  it  but  I  have  admiration  for  the  courage,  the  faith, 
and  the  will  power  of  our  fathers  and  our  mothers  who  started  out  in 
the  wilderness,  not  knowing  where  they  were  going,  but  singing : 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way. 

I  have  talked  with  hundreds  of  those  who  crossed  the  plains  and 
they  had  real  joy  and  happiness  in  wending  their  way  to  this  country. 

Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may  appear, 
Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

Certainly  God  did  give  them  grace  as  their  day. 

'Tis  better  far  for  us  to  strive, 
Our  useless  cares  from  us  to  drive, 
Do  this,  and  joy  your  hearts  will  swell — 
All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

And  not  only  was  that  good  advice  to  people  traveling  across,  the 
plains,  but  it  is  good  advice  to  each  and  to  all  of  us  every  day  of  our 
lives.  A  cheerful,  happy  spirit  of  serenity  is  pleasing  to  our  heavenly 
Father.  The  capacity  and  the  ability  to  believe  and  accept  the  scripture 
that  teaches  us  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in  all  things  is  pleasing 
to  our  heavenly  Father. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


5 


Why  should  we  mourn  or  think  our  lot  is  hard? 

"Tis  not  so;  all  is  right! 
Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 

If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 

The  trouble  with  a  great  many  people  is,  they  are  not  willing  to 
pay  the  price;  they  are  not  willing  to  make  the  fight  for  success  in  the 
battle  of  life.  They  are  much  like  the  people  of  whom  I  read  in 
Brother  N.  L.  Nelson's  book  on  preaching — which  I  happened  to  open 
one  day,  and  I  read  about  people  taking  literally  the  instructions  to 
take  no  thought  of  what  one  should  say;  and  Brother  Nelson  wrote 
that  many  of  those  who  took  no  thought  at  all  never  said  much,  as  they 
were  going  contrary  to  the  teaching,  that  we  were  to  prepare  ourselves ; 
and  he  says,  regarding  the  people  who  take  no  thought,  that  when 
they  speak  they  ought  to  say,  "Oh,  Lord,  here  I  am.  I  have  a  mouth 
nnd  a  pair  of  lungs  that  I  will  loan  thee  for  a  brief  season;  fill  me  with 
wisdom  that  I  may  edify  the  people,"  which  he  seldom  does. 

Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 

If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 
Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 
Our  God  will  never  us  forsake; 
And  soon  we'll  have  this  tale  to  tell — ■ 
All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

This  magnificent  audience  here,  our  beautiful  temple,  our  Church 
office  building,  and  the  temples  from  Canada  to  Southern  Utah,  and 
in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  bear  witness  to  all  the  world  that  God  has 
never  forsaken  his  people. 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 

Far  away  in  the  West; 
Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make  afraid; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blest. 

I  believe  there  is  no  true  Latter-day  Saint  who  does  not  believe 
that  God  did  prepare  this  land  for  his  people.  Brigham  Young  stood 
on  the  hill,  beyond  Fort  Douglas,  and,  looking  over  this  valley,  said : 
"This  is  the  place."  God  had  shown  him  this  place  in  vision,  before 
he  ever  came  here.  Men  tried  to  persuade  him  to  go  to  California  to 
that  rich  country,  but  this  was  the  place  which  God  had  prepared,  and 
we  stopped  here,  and  no  mistake  was  made. 

We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring, 
Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King; 
Above  the  rest  these  words  we'll  tell — 
All  is  well!  All  is  well! 
And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  All  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too, 
With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


What  sublime  faith — that  all  is  well!  even  should  you  die  in  the 
wilderness,  and  be  buried  in  an  unknown  grave,  so  to  speak;  and  yet 
that  was  their  faith ;  and  they  could  sing  these  words,  night  after  night, 
with  their  hearts  in  what  they  sang.  They  were  verily  praying  to  the 
Lord.  They  had  full  faith  -jn  the  revelations  given  to  the  wife  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  wherein  it  is  written :  "The  song  of  the  right- 
eous is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with  a  blessing  upon 
their  heads."   Also :   "My  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart." 

And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  All  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too, 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 
But  if  our  lives  are  spared  again 
To  see  the  Saints  their  rest  obtain. 
O  how  we'll  make  this  chorus  swell — 

All  is  well,  all  is  well! 

I  remember  upon  one  occasion,  and  I  have  often  spoken  of  it  — 
I  may  have  mentioned  it  here, — that  my  father-in-law,  the  late  Oscar 
Winters,  said :  "Heber,  I  believe  that  the  young  people  of  Zion  do  not 
thoroughly  appreciate  what  Brother  Clayton's  hymn  meant  to  us,  as 
we  sang  it,  night  after  night,  crossing  the  plains ;  and  I  believe  that 
choir  leaders  do  not  appreciate  it,  or  they  would  not  stop  after  singing 
only  three  verses.  I  have  listened  in  vain,"  as  I  remember  it,  he  said, 
"for  between  twenty-five  and  thirty  years,  to  hear  the  last  verse  of 
that  song  sung  by  a  choir,  and  I  have  never  heard  it." 

We  are  beginning  to  sing  it  now,  because  in  almost  every  stake 
of  Zion  I  have  asked  the  people  and  the  leaders  of  choirs,  that  if  they 
only  wished  to  sing  three  verses,  please  not  to  do  it  when  I  waapresent 
— but  to  sing  the  other  verse  also." 

A  TOUCHING  INCIDENT  OF  THE  PLAINS 

Brother  Winters  further  said,  "I  want  to  tell  vou  an  incident  that 
happened  as  I  was  coming  to  the  valley.  One  of  our  company  was 
delayed  in  coming  to  camp.  We  got  some  volunteers,  and  were  about 
to  -go  back  and  see  if  anything  had  happened, — if  he  had  had  trouble 
with  Indians,  or  what  was  the  matter, — when  we  saw  him  coming1  in 
the  distance.  When  he  arrived,  we  unyoked  his  cattle  and  helped  him 
to  get  his  supper.  He  had  been  quite  sick  and  had  to  lie  down  by  the 
road,  a  time  or  two.  After  supper  he  sat  down  on  a  large  rock,  by 
the  camp  fire,  and  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints."  It  was 
the  rule  in  the  camp  that  whenever  anybody  started  to  sing  that  hymn, 
we  would  all  ioin  with  him  ;  but  for  some  reason,  no  one  joined  with 
this  brother.  His  voice  was  quite  weak  and  feeble ;  and  when  he  had 
finished.  I  glanced  around,  and  I  don't  believe  there  were  any  of  the 
neople  sitting-  there  whose  eyes  were  tearless.  He  sang  the  hymn  very 
beautifully,  but  with  a  weak  and  plaintive  voice,  and  yet  with  the  spirit 
and  inspiration  of  the  hvmn.  The  next  morning  we  discovered  that 
he  was  not  hitching  up  his  oxen ;  we  went  to  his  wagon,  and  we  found 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


7 


that  he  had  died  during  the  night !  We  dug  a  shallow  grave  and  laid 
his  body  in  it.  We  then  thought  of  the  stone  on  which  he  had  been 
sitting  the  night  before  when  he  sang: 

"And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  All  is  well! 
W;  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too, 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 

"We  then  rolled  that  stone  over  in  place  as  a  headstone  for  his 
grave." 

I  noticed  tears  in  Brother  Winters'  eyes.  He  started,  as  if  he  was 
about  to  tell  me  something  more,  but  he  hesitated  and  did  not.  I 
subsequently  learned  that  after  he  had  been  in  the  valley  for  some  time 
he  came  from  his  home  in  the  country  to  Salt  Lake  to  meet  his  mother, 
only  to  learn  that  she,  too',  had  died  before  her  journey  was  through. 

ALONG  THE  "MORMON"  TRAIL. 

Some  years  ago,  as  the  Burlington  Railroad  was  building  through 
Nebraska  and  Wyoming,  the  engineers  found  a  piece  of  wagon  tire 
sticking  in  the  ground,  on  which  was  chiseled  the  word,  "Winters." 
They  wrote  to  Salt  Lake  City,  telling  of  this  discovery,  and  they  re- 
turned several  miles  and  kindly  changed  the  line,  of  the  road  so  as 
to  miss  that  spot,  knowing  that  it  was  the  grave  of  some  Utah  pioneer. 
We  have  since  erected,  there,  a  little  monument  to  the  memory  of 
Grandma  Winters.^  and,  on  one  side  of  that  little  monument,  built 
of  temple  granite,  we  have  had  chiseled  the  words  in  the  last  verse  of, 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints."  Never  can  I  hear  this  song,  never  can  I 
read  it,  but  my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  to  my  father  and  to  my 
mother,  and  to  thousands  of  those  noble  men  and  women  who  journ- 
eyed over  the  plains.  Many  of  them,  time  and  time  again,  crossed  the 
plains  to  help  others,  enduring  the  hardships  cheerfully,  carrying  out, 
in  very  deed,  the  teachings  of  this  inspired  hymn !  I  can  never  think 
of  them  but  I  am  full  of  admiration  and  gratitude,  and  utter  a  prayer 
to  the  Lord  to  help  me,  as  one  of  the  descendants  of  that  noble  band, 
to  be  loyal,  to  be  true,  to  be  faithful  as  they  were !  In  very  deed,  they 
were  a  band  of  men  and  women  who,  as  the  years  come  and  go,  will 
command  greater  and  greater  admiration  and  respect  from  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world. 

REASONS   FOR   THE   PEOPLE'S  COMING/ 

They  came  here,  for  what?  Because  of  the  burning  and  living 
testimony  in  their  souls  regarding  the  divine  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Master,  Jesus  Christ.  They  came  here  because  they  had  an  abiding 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  prayers,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  had  given  them  that  knowledge !  When  I  think  of  this  land  today, 
and  of  the  prosperity  and  peace  that  reign  here,  from  Canada  on  the 
north  to  Arizona  on  the  south,  I  indeed  marvel  and  thank  God.  When 
I  think  that  there  is,  perhaps,  no  other  part  of  the  United  States  more 
peaceful,  more  free  from  mob  violence,  and  from  those  evils  which 
disturb  the  serenity  of  people  and  cause  them  great  unrest  and  anxiety, 
I  am  indeed  grateful,  and  feel  to  bear  witness  to  the  inspiration  of  Wil- 
liam Clayton,  under  a  direct  appointment  from  Brigham  Young,  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord,  to  write  a  hymn  that  should  so  cheer  the  Saints. 
I  acknowledge  the  inspiration  expressed  in  the  words  that  they  would 
find  the  place  that  God  had  prepared  far  away  in  the  West!  When  I 
think  of  the  awful  devastation  that  swept  over  the  country,  from  which 
the  Latter-day  Saints  were  driven  in  Missouri  and  Illisois  and  other 
places  during  the  Rebellion  I  am  grateful  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
escaped  that  awful  state  of  affairs,  and  I  feel  to  acknowledge  the  hand 
of  the  Lord.  They  came  here  for  what?  For  the  express  purpose  to 
serve  God,  to  do  right,  as  stated  in  the'next  hymn  that  we  sang.  I 
think  this  other  hymn  is  worthy  to  be  counted  as  a  battle  hymn : 

Do  what  is  right;  the  day-dawn  is  breaking, 

Hailing_-a  future  of  freedom  and  light; 
Angels  above  us  are  silent  notes  taking 

Of  every  action;  do  what  is  right! 

\io  what  is  right;  the  shackles  are  falling; 

Chains  of  the  bondsmen  no  longer  are  bright; 
Lighten'd  by  hope,  soon  they'll  cease  to  be  galling; 

Truth  goeth  onward:  do  what-is  right! 

Do  wh..t  is  riglu;  be  faithful  and  fearless, 
Onward,  press  onward,  the  goal  is  in  sight; 

Eyes  that  are  wet  now,  ere  long  will  be  tearless; 
Blessing's  await  you;  do  what  is  right. 

Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence  follow; 

Battle  for  freedom  in  spirit  and  might. 
And  with  stout  hearts  look  y:  forth  till  tomorrow; 

God  will  protect  you;  do  what  is  right! 

That  is  what  om  falhers  and  mothers  came  here  for.  Our  late 
beloved  President,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  from  the  time  be  was  a  child, 
ten  years  of  age,  when  he  crossed  the  plains,  driving  the  team  for  his 
beloved  mother,  until  the  day  of  his  death,  labored  seventy  long  years, 
in  season  and  out  of  season,  doing  what  was  right,  on  all  occasions 
and  under  all  circumstances.  I  asked  him,  one  day,  which  was  his 
favorite  hymn,  and  he  said  he  did  not  have  any.  I  said,  "Well, 
Brother  Lyman  told  me  I  ought  to  have  one.  I  wish  you  would  select 
one."  "Well,"  he  said,  "I  think  I  would  hardly  care  to,  but  perhaps 
I  am  partial  to  the  hymn  by  that  heroic  little  soul,  Sister  Emily  Hill 
Woodmansee,  entitled,  "Uphold  the  Right;" 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


9 


Uphold  the  right,  tho'  fierce  the  fight, 

And  pow'rful  is  the  foe; 
As  freedom's  friend,  her  cause  defend, 

Nor  fear  nor  favor  show. 
No  coward  can  be  called  a  man — 

No  friend  will  friends  betray; 
Who  would  be  free,  alert  must  be; 

Indifference  will  not  pay. 

Note  how  they  toil,  whose  ai  n  is  spoil, 

Who  plundering  plots  devise; 
Yet  time  will  teach,  that  fools  o'erreach 

The  mark,  and  lose  the  prize. 
Can  justice  deign  to  wrong  maintain, 

Whoever  wills  it  so? 
Can  honor  mate  with  treach'rous  hate? 

Can  figs  on  thistles  grow? 

Dare  to  be  true,  and  hopeful  too; 

Be  watchful,  brave  and  shrewd; 
Weigh  every  act;  be  wise,  in  fact, 

To  serve  the  general  good. 
Nor  basely  yield,  nor  quit  the  field — 

Important  is  the  fray; 
Scorn  to  recede,  there  is  no  need 

To  give  our  rights  away. 

Left-handed  fraud  let  those  applaud 

Who  would  by  fraud  prevail; 
In  freedom's  name  contest  their  claim, 

Use  no  such  word  as  fail; 
Honor  we  must  each  sacred  trust, 

And  rightful  zeal  display; 
Our  part  fulfil,  then,  come  what  will, 

High  heaven  will  clear  the  way. 

WHY  WE  ARE.  UNDER  OBLIGATIONS  TO  SERVE  GOD. 

Certainly  President  Smith's  life  was  an  example  of  courage  and 
willingness  to  do  the  right,  without  fear  to  announce  himself  ori  any 
proposition  for  the  good  of  mankind. 

As  I  think  of  the  wonderful  prosperity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
of  what  they  have  accomplished,  of  what  they  are  accomplishing,  and 
of  the  respect  that  is  being  shown  them  today,  in  comparison  with  the 
contempt  that  was  shown  to  them  years  ago,  I  certainly  fee.1  to  thank 
the  Lord  for  all  of  his  mercies  and  blessings  to  us,  and  to  beg,  en- 
treat, and  implore  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  so  order  his  or  her  life 
that  they  will  in  very  deed  do  that  which  is  right,  let  the  consequence 
follow.  With  all -the  power  that  I  possess,  I  would  urge  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  There 
is  nothing  truer  than  the  statement  that  obedience  is  better  than  sacri- 
fice, and  to  hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams.  The  man  and  the  woman 
who  obeys  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  grows  and  increases  in 
light,  in  knowledge,  in  intelligence ;  and  above  all,  they  grow  in  the 
testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.   When  I  think  of  all  that  we  have 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


accomplished  and  of  our  being  here  in  fulfilment  of  the  prediction  of 
Joseph  Smith  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  come  to  these  Rocky 
Mountains  and  become  a  great  and  a  mighty  people,  I  am  reminded 
of  the  sufferings,  the  hardships,  and  the  trials  that  the  people  under- 
went in  their  drivings  and  expulsions  from  Missouri  and  Illinois,  and 
I  feel  to  say,  truly  God  has  preserved  and  blessed  us  in  this  land,  and 
we  are  under  obligations  to  him  to  serve  him,  so  that  those  who  know 
not  the  truth,  may  see  the  honesty,  the  integrity,  the  devotion  of  our 
lives,  that  these  may  inspire  them  to  investigate  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

We  are  told  in  revelation  from  the  Lord  that  we  should  be  anx- 
iously engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  that  we  should  bring  to  pass 
much  righteousness  of  our  own  free  will  and  choice,  for  we  are  agents 
unto  ourselves ;  and  wherein  we  do  good,  we  shall  in  no  wise  lose  our 
reward.  I  am  always  thankful  when  I  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants that  there  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  the  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and 
that  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  it  is  by  obedience  to  the  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated.  When  I  go  into  a  house  to  administer  to  those 
who  are  afflicted,  if  I  know  that  they  have  observed,  what  is  known 
as  the  Word  of  Wisdom  ;  if  I  know  they  have  fulfilled  the  law  where- 
by they  are  entitled  to  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  I  can  administer  to 
people  of  that  kind  with  faith,  knowing  that  if  it  is  not  the  will  of  the 
Lord  for  them  to  pass  away,  he  will  hear  and  answer  the  prayer  of 
faith,  and  they  will  be  restored. 

GOD'S  ANSWER  TO  A  PRAYER  OF  JOSEPH,  THE  PROPHET. 

When  I  stop  to  think  of  the  condition  our  people  was  in  years 
ago  and  that  some  of  the  great  and  important  revelations  that  have 
come  to  this  Church,  came  to  us  from  prison  -cells — today,,  I  say,  what 
a  wonderful  contrast !  Certainly  God'  has  been  good  to  this  people. 
I  think  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  revelations  that  we  have  is  the 
one  "that  came  to  us  in  answer  to  a  prayer  from  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  when  he  was  in  Liberty  Jail,  in  Clay  county,  Missouri,  on  the 
-  20th  day  of  March,  1839.    He  prayed  to  the  Lord: 

O  God!  where  art  thou?  And  where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy 
hiding  place?  How  long  shall  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and  thine  eye,  yea 
thy  pure  eye,  behold,  from  the  eternal  heavens,  the  wrongs  of  thy  people 
and  of  thy  servants,  and  thine  ear  be  penetrated  with  their  crlss?  etc. 

In  answer  to  this,  the  Lord  states,  among  other  important  items : 

"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder 
the  Almighty,  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven,  upon  the  heads 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  arr 
they  not  chosen? 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


11. 


"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

"That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  'conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exer- 
cise control,  £>r  dominion  or  compulsion,  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  them- 
selves; the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen 
to  the  Priesthood,  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold!  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himseelf,  to  kick  against  the 
pricks;  to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned,  by  sad  experience,  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposi- 
tion of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  sup- 
pose, they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness,  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile, 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him 
whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy. 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death; 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of'  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  sceptre  an 
unchanging  sceptre  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall  be 
an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  for, ever  and  ever." 

Placing  the  Prophet  in  a  jail  did  not  stop  communication  be- 
tween God,  our  heavenly  Father,  and  his  chosen  instrument  here  upon 
the  earth.  One  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  great  lessons  that  has  come 
to  us  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  was  given  while  he  was  in  jail, — "No 
power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness,  and' 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned;  by  kindness  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul  without  hypocrisy,"  and  so  on. 
The  Lord  being  my  helper,  standing  at  the  head  of  this  great  Church, 
I  shall  endeavor  to  exercise  the  Priesthood  that  I  hold  in  conformity 
with  this  revelation  from  the  living  God  to  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  who 
was  used  as  his  instrument  in  founding  the  Church  of  Christ  again  upon 
the  earth. 

GRATITUDE  TO  GOD. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  all  his  manifold  blessings  to  us  as  a  people. 
The  Saints  are  prosperous,  they  are  in  good  health  now.  We  are  meet- 
ing with  blessings  on  all  hands.    I  rejoice  in  this  and  feel  grateful  to 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Lord.  I  pray  that,  while  we  are  together,  we  may  be  abund- 
antly blessed  by  those  that  shall  speak  to  us. 

POSITION  ON  THE  QUESTION  OF  THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS. 

I  did  think  of  making  some  remarks  similar  to  those  I  made  here 
two  weeks  ago  today,  but  I  believe  that  I  will  do  as  the  congressmen 
do.  Instead  of  referring  to  my  position  upon  the  League  of  Nations 
and  other  matters,  as  I  did  two  weeks  ago,  I  will  simply  have  printed 
in  the  conferenoe  proceedings  the  sermon  that  I  then  delivered,  and 
you  can  read  it  at  your  leisure.  It  was  printed  in  the  Deseret  News,  I 
believe,  a  week  ago  last  Tuesday.  I  will  not  take  the  time  to  repeat 
what  I  said.  I  read  there  a  manifesto  sent  to  the  Senate  of  the  United 
States  begging  them  to  pass  the  Peace  Treaty,  and  I  will  simply  have 
my  sermon  incorporated  in  our  conference  proceedings  so  that  any 
of  the  Saints  who  want  to  read  it  can  do  so,  and  I  will  ask  Brother 
Edward  H.  Anderson,  the  editor  of  the  Era  also  to  print  my  sermon 
in  the  Era,  so  that  those  of  you  who  take  that  magazine  will  have  the 
privilege  of  reading  it.  If  there  is  any  home  in  all  the  Church  that  does 
not  have  the  Era,  it  simply  shows  that  the  people  there  are  lacking  in 
faith,  that  they  think  more  of  two  dollars  than  they  do  of  getting  com- 
munications from  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  important  ser- 
mons, things  which  are  of  more  value  than  the  things  of  this  world. 
You  know  there  are  a  great  many  people  who  hold  up  copper  cents 
in  front  of  their  eyes  and  hide  dollars,  and  there  are  a  great  many 
who  keep  two  dollars  in  their  pockets  and  hide  hundreds  of  dollars  of 
inspiration  and  knowledge  of  great  value  to  them  through  all  time, 
and  which  will  be  of  value  to  them  in  the  great  eternity  to  come. 

UPHOLD  THE  LAW. 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  what  is  known  as  The  Articles  of 
Faith,  and  one  of  them  reads :  "We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings, 
presidents,  rulers  and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining 
the  law,"  and  no  Latter-day  Saint  can  in  very  deed  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint  if  he  does  not  honor  and  sustain  and  uphold  the  law.  Nearly 
all  over  the  world,  at  the  present  time  there  is  a  spirit  of  lawlessness, 
a  spirit  of  ridicule,  and  one  lacking  respect  for  the  men  who  hold 
positions. 

One  of  the  most  terrible  crimes  that  I  have  read  of  in  years  was 
enacted  in  Omaha,  a  few  days  ago,  where  a  mob  of  citizens,  because 
the  policemen  were  trying  to  fulfil  their  duty  as  sworn  servants  of 
the  law — had  the  officers  in  a  building  that  was  burning  and  said :  "Let 
them  burn,"  Let  them  burn — why?  Because  they  would  not  deliver  a 
prisoner  to  the  mob,  but  kept  that  prisoner  so  that  he  could  have  a  fair 
trial  under  the  law.  / 

When  I  was  in  Los  Angeles  a  short  time  ago,  they  were  selling 
whisky  all  over  the  city,  and  I  was  told  that  the  officials  of  the  city 
said,  "You  can  sell  it  if  you  want  to,  we  do  not  object,  but  you  will 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


13 


have  to  take  your  chances  with  Uncle  Sam."  What  kind  of  public 
servants  are  they?  Elected  to  enforce  laws,  they  defy  the  laws  of 
their  own  country,  and  allow  people  to  sell  whisky  and  to  break  the 
law-!  No  wonder  mob  violence  comes,  when  some  of  the  leaders 
themselves  break  the  law.  No  wonder  they  had  this  great  war  in 
Europe  when  the  leaders  of  nations  broke  treaties  and  treated  them 
as  scraps  of  paper !  No  man  can  do  that  which  is  dishonest,  or  break 
laws  of  his  country  and  be  a  true  Latter-day  Saint.  No  nation  and 
no  leaders  of  nations  can  do  wrong,  and  break  their  obligations,  but 
what  they  are  just  as  much  under  condemnation  before  God  and  man  as 
the  other  individual  who  does  wrong.  Truth  will  prevail.  "Uphold 
the  right,  though  fierce  the  fight,"  should  be  the  motto  of  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  as  it  was  the  motto  of  our  beloved  leader  who  recently 
passed  away. 

ON  LABOR  UNIONS. 

I  want  to  say  that  I  am  perfectly  willing  that  men  shall  join 
labor  unions,  that  they  shall  band  together  for  the  purpose  of  pro- 
tecting their  rights,  provided  they  do  not  interfere  with  the  rights 
of  other  people.  Life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness  belong  to 
all  people  in  the  United  States,  according  to  the  laws  of  our  country, 
and  should,  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth ;  and  I  say  that,  to  my  mind, 
a  provision  in  a  labor  union  is  all  wrong  that  favors  boycotting  and 
the  laying  down  of  tools  or  the  quitting  of  employment  because  a  non- 
union man  obtains  employment  while  exercising  his  God-given  right 
to  stay  out  of  a  union.  Men  who  have  that  kind  of  a  rule  have  a 
rule  that  is  in  direct  opposition  to  the  laws  of  God.  There  was  a 
'battle  fought  in  heaven — for  what?  To  give  to  man  his  individual 
liberty.  An  attempt  to  take  the  agency  of  man  away  is  made  when  he 
does  not  see  fit  to  join  a  union,  when  men  in  that  union,  without  any 
complaint,  or  grievance,  strike,  because  a  non-union  man  is  employed. 

Now  I'd  better  not  say  any  mor.e,  perhaps,  on  this  question,  or  I 
may  offend  somebody.  I  may  hurt  somebody's  feelings ;  but  it  is  the 
God-given  right  of  men  to  earn  their  livelihood.  The  Savior  said  it 
was  the  first  great  law  or  commandment  to  love  the  Lord  with  all 
our  hearts,  and  that  the  second  was  like  unto  it,  to  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself.  That  is  the  doctrine  for  every  true  Latter-day  Saint.  How 
much  love  is  there  in  starving  your  neighbor  because  he  will  not 
surrender  his  manhood  and  his  individuality,  and  allow  a  labor  union 
to  direct  his  labor?  Mighty  little  love,  misdity  little  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  any  such  a  rule !  I  hope  to  see  the  day  when 
no  Latter-day  Saint  will  join  a  union  unless  the  union  eliminate  that 
clause  from  its  rules.  I  am  not  going  to  ask  them  to  leave  their 
union,  I  am  not  going  to  lay  it  down  that  they  must,  that  it  is  the 
mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  for  them  to  leave  a  union.  I  want,  as 
I  said  here  two  weeks  ago,  to  give  every  man  his  free  agency,  to  give 
every  man  the  right  to  act  as  he  thinks  proper,  but  I  cannot  see  how 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  a  member  of  such  a  union  can  get  down  on 
his  knees  and  pray  for  God  to  inspire  and  bless  him,  to  bless  the  Saints 
and  to  protect  them,  and  then  be  a  party  to  allowing  one  of  his  own 
brethren  to  go,  year  after  year,  without  employment,  because  that 
brother  will  not  surrender  his  manhood  and  join  a  union  with  him. 
There  is  none  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  that,  to  my  mind.  That  is 
exactly  the  way  I  see  it.  I  will  quote  again  what  I  quoted  here  two 
weeks  ago : 


Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 
Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 

Ask  your  own  heart,  ere  you  venture, 
If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

Let  not  friendly  vows  be  broken; 

Rather  strive  a  friend  to  gain; 
Many  a  word  in  anger  spoken, 

Finds  its  passage  home  again. 

Do  not  then  in  idle  pleasure 
Trifle  with  a  brother's  fame, 

Guard  it  as  a  valued  treasure, 
Sacred  as  your  own  good  name. 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly; 

Hastiness  to  trouble  tends. 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly 

Oft  become  our  warmest  friends. 

Also  this  poem: 

Let  each  man  learn  to  know  himself: 

To  gain  that  knowledge,  let  him  labor, 
Improve  those  failings  in  himself, 

Which  he  condemned  so  in  his  neighbor. 
How  lenient  our  own  faults  we  view, 

And  conscience'  voice  adeptly  smother; 
But  oh!  how  harshly  we  review 

The  self-same  errors  in  another. 


And  if  you  meet  an  erring  one, 

Whose  deeds  are  blameable  or  thoughtless, 
Consider,  ere  you  cast  the  stone, 

If  you  yourself  be  pure  and  faultless. 
Oh!  list  to  that  small  voice  within, 

Whose  whisperings  oft  make  men  confounded, 
And  trumpet  not  another's  sin, 

You'd  blush  deep  if  your  own  were  sounded. 

And  in  self-judgment,  if  you  find 
Your  deeds  to  others  are  superior; 

To  you  has  Providence  been  kind, 
As  you  should  be  to  those  inferior; 

Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light,  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow; 

So  first,  improve  yourself  today, 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


15 


CLOSING  TESTIMONY. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  am  able  to  bear  witness  to  you  here  today 
that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  our  prayers ; 
that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the 
Savior  of  mankind.  I  bear  my  witness  to  you  here  today  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  that  he  was  the 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  establishing  again  upon  the  earth 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  not  only  for  the  living  but  for  the  dead, 
and  that  this  gospel,  commonly  called  "Mormonism,"  by  the  people 
of  the  world,  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  the  little  stone  has  been  cut  out 
of  the  mountain,  and  that  it  shall  roll  forth  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth. 
We  believe  in  the  restoration  of  the  Ten  Tribes ;  we  believe  in  the 
literal  gathering  of  Israel,  and  we  believe  that  Zion  shall  be  built  upon 
this,  the  American  continent,  and  that  Christ  shall  reign  personally 
upon  the  earth.  May  God  help  us  who  have  a  testimony  q£  the  gos- 
pel to  so  live  that  if  we  are  upon  the  earth  when  he  comes  to  reign, 
we  will  be  worthy  to  be*welcomed  by  him;  and  if  we  go  beyond  be- 
fore he  comes  to  reign,  that  we  shall  receive  the  plaudit,  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant;  enter  into  the  joy  of  the  Lord,"  is 
my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

DISCOURSE  OF  PRESIDENT  HEBER  T.  GRANT 

In  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  September  21.  1919,  in  the  after- 
noon of  Salt  Lake  stake  conference — Defines  attitude  on  Treaty  of 
Peace — -"Standard  Works  of  the  Church  are  not  opposed  to  the  League 
of  Nations — United  States  should  stand  bv  her  allies — Ghange  in  treatv 
terms  making  resubmission  to  Germany  necessary,  would  be  a  calamity" 
Allusions  to  great  event  in  Church  history  occurring  ninety-six- years 
ago — Visits  of  Ansrel  Moroni  and  other  heavenly  beings  to  Joseph 
Smith — Analysis  of  Articles  of  Faith — Personal  experiences — Powerful 
testimony  of  restoration  of  the  gospel. 

T  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  again  meeting  with  the  Lat- 
ter-dav  Saints  in  public  worship.  It  is  ever  a  pleasure  to  me  to  meet 
with  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  also,  when  opportunity  presents,  to  meet  with  those  not  of  our  faith, 
to  explain  our  faith  to  those  who  are  not  familiar  with  it,  and  to  bear 
witness  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

Before  speaking  today  on  matters  pertaining  to  our  faith,  I  desire 
to  make  a  brief  statement.  I  have  been  requested,  by  word  of  mouth 
and  bv  letter,  on  more  than  one  occasion,  to  state  mv  opinion  regarding 
the  league  of  nations.  I  received  a  telegram  asking  me  to  ioin  ex- 
President  Taft.  ex- Attorney  General  Wickersham,  President  Lowell  of 
Harvard,  and  other  leading  Americans,  in  signing  the  following  mani- 
festo : 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  the  senate  at  Washington,  now  that  the  committee  on  foreign  rela- 
tions has  reported  the  treaty,  the  lines  are  sharply  drawn  between  the  im- 
mediate_  ratification  of  the  treaty  of  peace  with  Germany,  and  its  amend- 
ment with  a  reassembling  of  the  conference  and  a  reopening  of  negotiations 
that  would  bring  great  delay  and  prolonged  uncertainty  in  settling  the 
great  issues  of  the  peace.  No  partisan  plea  can  be  made.  Party  lines  are 
already  broken. 

Standing  at  a  distance  from  the  conflict  in  the  senate  chamber,  we  plead 
for  immediate  ratification  without  delay.  Our  land  requires  it.  A  state 
of  nervous  strain,  tension,  and  unrest  exists,  manifesting  itself  in  distur- 
bances, which  in  some  cases  have  no  self-evident  connection  with  the  war, 
but  which  are  in  fact  its  aftermath.  The  world  is  put  in  imminent  peril  of 
new  wars  by  the  lapse  of  each  day.  Dissensions  between  us  and  our  former 
allies  are  being  sown.  We  firmly  believe  and  solemnly  declare  that  the 
states  and  cities  in  which  we  dwell  desire  immediate  peace. 

The  waging  of  war  steadied  and  united  the  American  people.  Peace 
will  bring  prosperity,  and  prosperity  content.  Delay  in  the  senate  post- 
poning ratification  in  this  uncertain  period  of  neither  peace  nor  war  has 
resulted  in  indecision  and  doubt,  bred  strife,  and  quickened  the  cupidity 
of  those  who  sell  the  daily  necessities  of  life  and  the  fears  of  those  whose 
daily  wage*  no  longer  fills  tire  daily  market  basket. 

We  beseech  the  senate  to  give  the  land  peace  and  certainty  by  a  rati- 
fication which  will  not  keep  us  longer  in  the  shadows  of  possible  wars,  but 
give  the  whole  world  the  light  of  peace.  Reservations  m  the  nature  of 
clarifications  in  the  meaning  of  the  treaty,  not  inconsistent  with  its  terms, 
will  not  require  the  reopening  of  the  negotiations  with  Germany  and  with 
our  associates  in  the  war,  which  we  all  and  each  united  to  win. 

But  there  is  no  possibility  of  doubt  th^t  amendment  of  the  treaty,  as  is 
now  proposed  by  the  senate  committee  on  foreign  relations,  would  require 
negotiation  and  a  reopening  of  all  the  questions  decided  at  Paris.  Months 
of  delay  would  follow.  The  perils  of  the  present  would  become  the  deadly 
dangers  of  the  near  future.  All  the  doubt  engendered  would  aid  the  plots 
for  violent  revolution  in  this  and  other  lands.  The  issues  here  and  else- 
where between  capital  and  labor,  the  conspiracy  of  speculator  and  profiteer, 
would  all  grow,  and  become  more  perilous. 

This  cannot  be.  The  American  people  cannot,  after  a  victorious  war, 
permit  its  government  to  petition  Germany,  which  has  accepted  the  treaty, 
for  its  consent  to  changes  in  the  treaty.  Yet,  if  the  United  States  should 
amend  the  treaty  for  its  own  purpose  and  policy,  Germany  would  have 
full  right  to  ask  for  concessions.  Germany  has  agreed  to  make  no  claim 
in  regard  to  enemy  property  seized  in  this  country  to  an  amount  of  seven 
hundred  million  dollars.  Our  recent  foe  could  ask  for  a  reopening  of  this 
issue  and  of  the  Lusitania  claims.  It  could  raise  every  question  open  be- 
fore hostilities  in  regard  to  submarine  warfare  and  the  treatment  of  its 
nationals  in  this  country.  All  the  provisions  for  our  trade  in  Germany 
raised  by  the  economic  clauses  of  the  treaty,  many  of  them  vital  to  our 
industries  and  our  farms,  as  in  dye  patents,  dye  supplies  and  fertilizers, 
the  working  of  the  reparation  commission  which  superintends  the  trade  of 
all  with  GermaYiy  could  all  be  brought  up  by  Berlin  for  readjustment  by  our 
negotiators,  acting  for  the  United  States  alone  and  no  longer  associated, 
with  other  victorious  powers  or  supported  by  a  victorious  American  army 
on  the  German  border. 

Peace  is  delayed  until  ratification  comes.  And  any  amendment  post- 
pones peace.  Germany  and  England  alone  of  the  principal  powers  have 
ratified.  The  other  principals  necessarily  await  our  action,  influential  and 
powerful  as  we  are  today,  in  the  world's  affairs.  The  ravages  of  war 
on  more  than  a  score  of  fighting  fronts  are  continued  by  our  needless  delay. 
Let  the  senate  give  the  world  peace  by  ratification  without  amendment. 

Even  the  amendment  for  which  most  can  be  said,  the  provision  in  regard 
to  Shantung,  will  secure  nothing  which  cannot  be  gained  if  China,  backed 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


17 


by  the  powerful  advocacy  of  the  United  States,  addresses  itself  to  the  ma- 
chinery for  righting  international  wrongs  and  meeting  just  claims  created 
by  the  league  between  nations,  China  after  eighty  years  of  oppressive 
treaties  and  despoiled  rights,  by  which  all  the  great  powers  have  profited  ' 
directly  or  indirectly,  has  for  the  first  time,  in  this  covenant  and  treaty, 
the  means  and  method  to  secure  justice  and  the  removal  of  the  oppressive 
economic  interference  of  stronger  nations  whose  citizens  are  within  her 
gates,  protected  by  a  long  succession  of  international  agreements.  More- 
over, it  should  be  remembered  that  the  clause  regarding  Shantung  was  made 
upon  the  statement  by  Japan  that  she  will  return  the  territory  to  China  and, 
therefore,  upon  that  condition;  compliance  with  which  promise  the  league 
can  require. 

The  peace  of  the  present  and  the  righteousness  of  the  future  -can  be 
best  secured  by  the  ratification  of  the  covenant  and  treaty  without  amend- 
ment. Let  the  senate  take  no  action  that  will  give  any  party  to  the 
treaty,  and  especially  Germany,  ground  for  maintaining  that  the  ratification 
of  the  United  States  is  not  complete  and  that  changes  requiring  a  resump- 
tion of  conference  and  negotiations  have  been  made  in  it. 

I  replied  as  follows : 

I  have  pleasure  in  joining  ex-President  Taft  and  other  leading  Ameri- 
cans in  signing  manifesto  as  outlined  in  your  telegram  of  yesterday. 

The  sentiments  contained  in  the  above  manifesto  express  my  per- 
sonal position  with  regard  to  the  league  of  nations ;  and  since  signing 
the  telegram  I  have  neither  heard  nor  read  anything  that  has  in  any 
degree  changed  my  position  on  this  important  question. 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  brought  into  this  contro- 
versy, which  has  now  become  practically  a  partisan  controversy.  It  is 
my  opinion  that  this  important  question  should  have  been  kept  abso- 
lutely out  of  politics. 

On .  one  important  matter  I  desire  to  place  the  position  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  fairly  before  the  people. 
An  illustrated  hand-bill  has  been  circulated  and  has  been  widely  repub- 
lished in  newspapers  under  the  heading :  "Mormon  Bible  Prophecies 
Become  Issue  in  Opposition  to  the  League  of  Nations."  The  position 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  the  standard 
works  of  the  Church  are  not  opposed  to  the  league  of  nations. 

As  stated  in  what  I  have  read  to  you,  I  regret  exceedingly  that 
this  great  and  important  question  has  become  a  political  issue,  and  I 
desire  to  ask  each  and  all  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  over  which  I 
have  the  honor  to  preside,  that  in  all  their  controversy  in  connection 
with  this  great  issue,  they  express  themselves  as  to  their  views  with  due 
deference  to  the  opinions  of  others.  During  the  controversy  I  would 
like  them  to  read,  occasionally,  the  very  wonderful  and  inspired  hymn 
"O  say,  what  is  truth  ?"  written  by  John  Jaques,  to  be  found  on  page  71 
of  our  hymn  book : 

O,  say  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  fairest  gem 

That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce; 
And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be  when 
The  proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem 

Is  counted  but  dross  and  refuse. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Yes,  say  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  Gqds  can  aspire; 
Go,  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies; 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 

The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp, 

When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last, 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast, 

And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes, 

Then  say,  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er; 
Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

On  page  66  of  our  hymn  book  we  find  the  following: 

Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 

Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 
Ask  your  own  heart,  ere  you  venture, 

If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

Let  not  friendly  vows  be  broken; 

Rather  strive  a  friend  to  gain; 
Many  a  word  in  anger  spoken 

Finds  its  passage  home  again. 

Do  not  then,  in  idle  pleasure, 

Trifle  with  a  brother's  fame, 
Guard  it  as  a  valued  treasure, 

Sacred  as  your  own  good  name. 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly; 

Hastiness  to  trouble  tends, 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly, 

Oft  become  our  warmest  friends. 

Seeing  that  I  have  gottten  into  the  habit  of  quoting  poetry,  another 
poem  has  just  come  to  mind',  which  I  will  repeat,  as  I  think  it  will  be 
of  value  to  us  in  teaching  us  to  have  respect  for  the  opinions  of  other 
^eople : 

LET  EACH   MAN  LEARN  TO  KNOW  HIMSELF. 

Let  each  man  learn  to  know  himself: 
To  gain  that  knowledge,  let  him  labor, 
Improve  those  failings  in  himself, 
Which  he  condemns  so  in  his  neighbor. 
,  How  lenient  our  own  faults  we  view, 
And  conscience'  voice  adeptly  smother; 
But  oh!  how  harshly  we  review 
The  self-same  errors  in  another! 

And  if  you  meet  an  erring  one 

Whose  deeds  are  blamable  or  thoughtless, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


19 


Consider,  ere  you  cast  the  stone, 

If  you  yourself  be  pure  and  faultless. 

Oh!  list  to  that  small  voice  within, 

Whose  whisperings  oft  make  men  confounded, 

And  trumpet  not  another's  sin, 

You'd  blush  deep  if  your  own  were  sounded. 

And  in  self-judgment,  if  you  find 

Your  deeds  to  others  are  superior; 

To  you  has  Providence  been  kind, 

As  you  should  be  to  those  inferior; 

Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light,  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow; 

Co  first,  improve  yourself  today, 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 

Philip  De  La  Mere. 

T  regret  exceedingly  that  in  political  controversies  men  seem  to 
lack  that  courtesy  and  that  respect  for  their  opponents  that  I  helieve  all 
Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  have.  I  have  never  yet  heard  a  Democrat 
make  a  political  speech  that  I  felt  was  fair  to  the  Republicans.  Being 
a  Democrat,  I  shall  not  say  anything  about  what  I  think  of  the  speeches 
of  Republicans  regarding  Democrats.  Tt  is  a  strange  thing — but  they 
sav  that  "Love  is  blind,"  and  some  people  have  added,  "and  can't  smell." 
I  have  sometimes  thought  that  both  statements  were  true.  From  my 
own  personal  contact  with  dear  and  near  friends,  Republicans  and 
Democrats,  I  have  not  been  able  to  discover  the  exercise  of  what  you 
might  call  charity,  if  you  like,  for  the  opinions  of  others  who  oppose 
them  politically  at  least  not  as  much  charity  as  should  exist  among 
our  people.  I  am  a  thorough  convert  myself  to  the  idea  that  it  is  not 
possible  for  all  men  to  see  alike.  You  know  the  remark  made  by  a  man 
once :  "It  is  a  splendid  thing  that  we  do  not  all  see  alike,  because  if  we 
did,  everybody  would  want  to  marry  my  Sally  Ann  ;"  and  the  other  man 
remarked,  "Yes,  thank  the  Lord.  If  everybody  saw  your  Sally  Ann 
as  I  see  her,  nobody  on  earth  would  have  her,  and  she  would  die  an 
old  maid."  (Laughter.) 

I  am  convinced  in  my  own  feelings  that  Great  Britain,  France,  and 
the  United  States  have  common  aims,  common  desires,  common  ob- 
jects, and  that  a  league  in  which  those  three  nations  are  combined  will 
mean  peace  as  far  as  the  acts  of  nations  can  bring  peace  to  mankind. 
The  three  thousand  miles  of  border  between  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  maintained  for  over  a  hundred  years  without  the  slightest 
trouble,  without  any  great  forts,  such  as  they  have  felt  obliged  to  have 
between  Germany  and  France,  and  other  European  countries,  gives 
me  the  absolute  assurance  in  my  heart  that  Great  Britain  and  her  sub- 
jects have  the  same  desires  for  the  welfare  of  mankind,  and  for  the 
liberty  of  mankind,  that  we  have  here  in  the  United  States.  Confi- 
dence begets  confidence ;  good  will  begets  good  will ;  and  I  believe  that 
having  fought — for  what?  For  our  own  existence,  because  I  believe 
that  but  for  the  fact  of  our  joining  with  the  Allies  in  the  great  war, 
Germany  wquld  have  conquered  France  and  Great  Britain,  and  that 
immedJatey  thereafter  she  would  have  picked  a  quarrel  with  the 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


United  States,  in  the  hope  that  this  country,  too,  might  be  conquered. 
That  Germany  could  not  have  conquered  the  United  States  I  have  no 
doubt.  While  representing  you,  as  chairman  of  the  Liberty  loan  com- 
mittee of  the  State  of  Utah,  I  attended  a  banquet  in  San  Francisco,  and 
in  the  course  of  a  little  speech  of  ten  minutes — the  limit  given  to  me — 
I  announced  that  we  were  sure  to  win  the  war ;  that  there  was  no 
doubt  of  it  in  my  mind,  absolutely  none,  because  I  accepted  the  state- 
ment of  an  inspired  prophet  of  the  living  God,  who  resided  on  this 
continent  hundreds  of  years  ago,  who  said  that  this  is  a  choice  land 
above  all  other  lands,  and  that  no  king  should  rule  on  this  land.  There- 
fore I  have  no  fear  of  Germany  or  any  other  country  conquering  these 
United  States  of  America — none  whatever.  But  if  Germany  had  con- 
quered France  and  England — which  I  believe  she  would  have  done  but 
for  our  help — there  would  have  been  slain,  instead  of  less  than  100,000 
of  our_boys,  hundreds  of  thousands  before  we  would  have  won  the 
victory.  I  believe  in  my  heart  that  it  is  our  duty  to  stand  by  those 
nations  that  stood  the  brunt  of  the  battle,  and  that  saved  us  the  loss  of 
perhaps  millions  of  our  boys  in  the  great  struggle.  I  am  not  saying 
that  I  would  not  be  delighted  if  this  league  of  nations,  or  the  terms  of 
this  covenant  of  peace,  could  be  changed  in  some  particulars,  but  they 
cannot  be  changed  without  submitting  the  treaty  again  to  Germany. 
To  my  mind,  that  would  be  a  calamity. 

Now,  I  did  not  intend  to  say  this  much  regarding  the  league 
of  nations,  but  rather  to  preach  a  little  on  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

AN  IMPORTANT  ANNIVERSARY. 

Today  is  the  ninety-sixth  anniversary  of  that  wonderful  mani- 
festation from  God,  the  visitation  of  an  angel  from  heaven  to  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith.  Joseph  Smith  testified  to  all  the  world  that  Moroni, 
an  ancient  prophet  of  God  who  resided  upon  this  continent,  appeared  to 
him  in  answer  to  his  prayer  to  the  living  God  for  light  and  knowledge. 
He  states  that  his  room  started  to  become  light,  until  it  was  as  light  as 
the  noonday  sun,  and  then  a  personage  appeared  before  him,  conversed 
with  him,  delivered  a  most  important  message,  and  quoted  many  im- 
portant passages  of  scripture,  as  you  will  find  recorded  here  in  a  brief 
account  of  this  wonderful  event,  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  marked  a  number  of  passages  that  I 
thought  I  would  read,  but  I  will  not  take  the  time  to  do  so.  This  angel 
delivered  a  message  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  told  him  that  in  the  Hill 
Cumorah  there  were  buried  golden  plates  containing  a  record  of  the 
forefathers  of  the  American  Indians.  After  delivering  his  message 
and  quoting  a  lot  of  scripture  to  the  boy,  the  messenger  disappeared. 
He  returned  and  repeated  all  that  he  had  said  before,  and  added  a 
little  additional  scripture,  then  disappeared.  He  returned  once  more 
and  repeated  all  that  he  had  said  upon  the  previous  visits — and  by 
this  time  it  was  morning.   The  boy  dressed  himself  and  went  to  the  field 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


21 


to  work,  but  his  father,  seeing  that  something  was  the  matter  with 
him,  as  he  had  been  awake  all  night  and  was  feeble,  told  him  to  go 
home.  On  his  way  home,  while  trying  to  climb  over  a  fence,  he  fell 
and  was  awakened  by  the  voice  of  the  messenger,  and  for  the  fourth 
time  these  messages  were  delivered  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  after 
which  he  told  the  boy  to  go  to  his  father  in  the  field  and  tell  him  all 
that  he  had  heard  from  the  messenger.  Joseph  went  to  his  father  and 
repeated  the  message  that  had  been  delivered  to  him  by  an  angel  of 
God,  a  former  prophet  who  lived  upon  this  earth,  and  his  father  said: 
"This  message  is  from  God,"  and  told  him  to  follow  the  instructions 
of  the  angel.  Joseph  Smith  went  to  the  place  where  the  plates  contain- 
ing the  Book  of  Mormon  record  were  buried,  and  when  he  was  about 
to  remove  them,  the  angel  told  him  the  time  had  not  yet  come  when  the 
plates  were  to  be  delivered  into  his  hands,  but  that  he  was  to  return  to 
that  spot  once  a  year  for  four  years,  and  then  the  plates  were  to  be 
given  to  him.  He  did  return  once  a 'year  for  four  years,  and  upon 
each  of  those  visits  the  angel  of  the  Lord  instructed  this  young  man  in 
the  things  of  God,  and  prepared  him  to  be  the  chosen  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  living  God  to  restore  again  to  the  earth  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Subsequently, 
John  the  Baptist,  the  man  who  baptized  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  came 
and  laid  his  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery, and  ordained  those  men  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  giving  them 
the  authority  to  baptize.  After  this  ordination  they  went  down  into 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  baptized  each  other.  Subsequently,  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  had  min- 
istered in  the  days  of  the  Savior  and  after  his  crucifixion,  came  to  tthe 
earth,  and  they  -laid  their  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  and  ordained  the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  giving  them  all  the  keys,  the  powers,  the  rights  and 
the  authority  to  establish  again  the  gospel  plan  and  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth.  "Oh,"  says  the  unbeliever,  "we  do  not  be- 
lieve that  any  messenger  ever  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith ;  we  do  not 
believe  that  John  the  Baptist  laid  his  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery ;  we  do  not  believe  that  Peter,  James,  and 
John  ordained  these  men  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  The  un- 
belief of  all  the  world  cannot  change  those  facts,  if  they  are  facts ;  and 
we  proclaim  to  the  world  that  by  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  we 
know  that  they  are  facts,  and  that  they  shall  stand  forever,  for  they 
can  never  be  overthrown.  The  angel  Moroni  told  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith  that  the  day  should  come  when  an  ancient  prophet  should  appear 
and  bestow  the  authority  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the 
fathers.  This  promise  was  made  years  before  the  organization  of  this 
Church,  and  before  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  ever  revealed,  and  a 
number  of  years  later  that  promise  was  fulfilled,  when  that  authority 
was  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  a  wonderful  vision 
and  manifestation  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  April  3,  1836  (Section  110, 
Doctrine  and  Covenants)  : 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  vail  was  taken  from  our  minds,  and  the  eyes  of  our  understand- 
ing were  opened. 

IWe  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before 
us,  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold  in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire,  the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like 
the  pure  snow,  his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters,  even,  the 
voice  of  Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last,  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain, 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

Behold,  your  sins  are  forgiven  you,  you  are  clean  before  me,  therefore 
lift  up  your  heads  and  rejoice. 

Let  the  hearts  of  your  brethren  rejoice,  and  let  the  hearts  of  all  my 
people  rejoice,  who  have,  with  their  might,  built  this  house  to  my  name. 

For  behold,  I  have  accepted  this  house,  and  my  name  shall  be  here, 
and  I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  people  in  mercy  in  this  house, 

Yea,  I  will  appear  unto  my  servants,  and  speak  unto  them  with  mine 
own  voice,  if  my  people  will  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  not  pollute 
this  holy  house. 

Yea,  the  hearts  of  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  shall  greatly  rejoice 
in  consequence  of  the  blessings  which  shall  be  poured  out,  and  the  endow- 
ment with  which  my  servants  have  been  endowed  in  this  house; 

And  the  fame  of  this  house  shall  spread  to  foreign  lands,  and  this  is 
the  beginning  of  the  blessing  which  shall  be  poured  out  upon  the  heads 
of  my  people.    Even  so.  Amen. 

After  this  vision  closed,  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us, 
and  Moses  appeared  before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the 
gathering  of  Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of 
the  ten  tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north. 

After  this,  Elias  appeared,  and  committed  the  dispensation  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Abraham,  saying,  that  in  us,  and  our  seed,  all  generations  after  us 
should  be  blessed. 

After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious  vision  burst 
upon  us.  Elijah  the  prophet  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting 
death,  stood  before  us,  and  said: 

Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth 
of  Malachi,  testifying  that  he  (Elijah]  should  be  sent  befoie  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come. 

To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children  to 
the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 

Therefore  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your  hands, 
and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
is  near,  even  at  the  doors. 

WHY   WE  BUILD  TEMPLES. 

Millions  of  dollars  have  been  invested  in  the  Salt  Lake  temple. 
Month  after  month,  as  a  boy,  I  contributed  $1  a  month.  As  my  wages 
increased  I  contributed  $2  a  month,  and  later  $3,  $4,  $5  and  finally 
gave  several  thousands  of  dollars,  towards  the  completion  of  that  tem- 
ple. Why  ?  Because  the  Lord  God  Almighty  had  given  me  a  knowl- 
edge that  the  hearts  of  the  children  have  been  turned  to  their  fathers ; 
that  the  keys  held  by  Elijah  the  prophet  were  in  very  deed  delivered 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  The  very  granite  bears  witness 
to  the  faith,  the  knowledge  and  the  testimony  that  God  has  given  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints — not  only  this  temple,  but  in  Logan,  in  Manti, 
in  St.  George,  temples  have  been  erected  to  the  same  effect.   In  Canada 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


23 


there  is  another  temple,  not  yet  completed,  and  one  recently  completed 
in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  wherein  ordinances  for  the  dead  can  be  per- 
formed. The  temple  still  stands  in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  where  these  won- 
derful manifestations  from  God  were  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
By  the  revelations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  them,  they  testify  that  these 
things  did  occur.  There  was  also  a  temple  at  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  which 
was  built  under  great  stress — which  our  people  built  with  the  rifle  in 
one  hand,  so  to  speak,  and  the  trowel  or  the  instruments  used  in 
building  in  the  other.  These  temples,  erected  by  the  Saints  in  the  days 
of  their  poverty,  bear  witness  to  all  the  world  of  the  inspiration  of  God 
to  those  men  and  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  visions  in  the  Kirtland  tem- 
ple. No  men  and  women  would  spend  their  money  by  the  millions  of 
dollars  for  the  erection  of  temples,  and  spend  their  time,  year  after  year, 
laboring  for  the  salvation  of  their  dead,  if  they  did  not  have  the  witness 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  in  very  deed  the  promise  has  been  fulfilled  that 
was  made  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  ninety-six  years  ago  today,  that 
Elijah  should  come  and  restore  these  keys. 

Almost  simultaneously  with  this  wonderful  manifestation  to  the 
boy,  this  visitation  of  an  angel  of  the  living  God,  delivering  a  message 
and  making  promises  regarding  the  organizaton  of  the  Church  and  of 
many  wonderful  things,  all  of  which  have  since  been  fulfilled,  came  a 
widespread  impulse  among  men  to  acquire  information  concerning 
their  dead  progenitors.  No  person  can  deny,  who  will  stop  to  reason 
upon  it,  that  from  the  time  of  Elijah's  visit,  restoring  the  keys  that  he 
held,  turning  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  there  has  come 
into  the  hearts  of  people  all  over  the  world  a  desire  to  know  something 
about  their  ancestors.  No  truthful  person  can  deny  that  this  is  the 
case.  People  will  not  believe,  perhaps,  that  the  turning  of  their  hearts 
to  the  fathers,  causing  them  to  seek  for  information  regarding  their 
progenitors,  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  keys  had  been  turned  in  the 
temple  at  Kirtland ;  but  we  know  that  is  the  case.  I  have  met  men  and 
have  conversed  with  them,  who  have  spent  years  and  years  of  their 
lives  gathering  the  genealogy  of  their  forefathers,  and  compiling  books 
containing  that  information.  When  I  have  asked  them  why  they  did  it, 
they  would  say  that  they  did  not  know,  but  that  they  were  seized  with 
a  strong,  irresistible  desire  to  find  out  the  names  of  their  ancestors 
and  to  compile  them.  Now  that  they  have  finished  the  record,  they 
seem  to  have  lost  all  interest  in  it.  To  a  Latter-day  Saint  a  book  of  this 
size  [holding  up  the  Book  of  Mormon],  containing  the  names  of  his 
ancestors,  is  worth  many,  many  times,  hundreds  of  times  more  than  its 
weight  in  gold,  because  to  the  Latter-day  Saint  has  come  a  knowledge 
that  he  can  in  very  deed  be  "a  savior  upon  Mount  Zion"  of  his  kindred 
who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

a  visitor's  conversion. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  wonderful  testimony  that  comes  into  the 
hearts  of  men  regarding  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


gaged,  by  the  labors  that  were  performed  by  a  gentleman  named  R.  M. 
Bryce-Thomas,  a  retired  colonel  in  the  British  army.    Colonel  Thomas 
came  to  Salt  Lake  City  and  stopped  at  the  Templeton  hotel,  a  small 
hotel  in  the  Zion's  Bank  building  at  that  time.  His  wife  was  taken  sick, 
and  as  he  sat  there  in  his  room  and  looked  across  the  street  to  the  old 
two-story  adobe  building  that  stood  where  the  Hotel  Utah  now  is,  he 
saw  a  sign,  "Mormon  Publications."    He  read  this  sign  "Mormon 
Publications,"  day  after  day,  until  it  got  on  his  nerves,  and  so  he  went 
over  and  bought  some  "Mormon  Publications."    When  his  wife  re- 
covered, he  returned  to  his  home  in  London,  and  he  read  these  publica- 
tions.   He  afterwards  attended  "Mormon"  meetings  and  became  con- 
vinced of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  again 
revealed  to  the  earth  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    He  traveled 
all  the  way  from  the  great  city  of  London  to  Salt  Lake  City  upon  two 
separate  and  distinct  occasions,  for  the  privilege  of  going  into  the 
temple  of  the  Lord,  that  stands  on  this  block,  and  becoming  a  savior 
of  his  progenitors.   As  he  was  an  educated  man,  and  a  man  of  im- 
portance, his  friends  thought  that  he  had  practically  gone  crazy,  or  he 
would  not  have  joined  the  "miserable  'Mormons'."  He  received  so  many 
letters  of  inquiry,  asking  why  he  had  joined  the  "Mormons,"  that  he 
decided  to  write  out  his  reasons  for  leaving  the  Church  of  England 
and  joining  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.    He  did 
so,  and  sent  those  reasons  to  the  Liverpool  office  to  Brother  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  who  was  then  president  of  the  European  mission,  asking  him  to 
have  a  few  hundred  copies  printed  so  that  he  could  distribute  them 
among  his  friends.    Brother  Wells  asked  permission  to  utilize,  in  the 
shape  of  a  tract,  the  arguments  and  reasons  that  he  gave  for  leaving 
the  Church  of  England.  This  request  was  granted.   Tens  of  thousands 
of  copies  of  "My  Reasons  for  Leaving  the  Church  of  England  and 
joining  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints"  have  been 
distributed  in  this  country  and  in  Europe,  and  I  commend  that  very 
scholarly  and  splendid  pamphlet  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  not 
read  it.  I  am  sure  I  have,  at  least  a  half  dozen  times ;  I  have  given  away 
thousands  of  copies  of  this  tract,  and  I  want  to  bear  witness  here  today, 
regarding  this  man — for  I  have  met  him  and  conversed  with  him — 
that  he  has  the  spirit  of  the  gospel ;  that  he  has  in  his  heart  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged ;  and  it  is 
the  spirit  that  giveth  life,  that  giveth  understanding,  that  testifies  of 
the  things  of  God.  This  man  is  converted  to  the  gospel.   He  is  not  only 
converted  to  the  gospel,  but  he  can  give  his  reasons,  scriptural  reasons, 
in  addition  to  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  that  he  has  received  from  the 
Lord  as  to  the  divinity  of  this  work.  Furthermore,  he  lives  the  gospel, 
and  that  is  one  of  the  great  evidences  of  its  divinity. 

DEMANDS  UPON  THE  POCKET. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  tenderest  part  of  the  human  anatomy,  of 
the  male  variety  of  the  species,  is  the  pocket ;  and  I  think  there  is  little 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


25 


doubt  of  it,  from  my  experience  with  mankind.  The  laws  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  are  most  exacting  on  the  pockets  of  men,  and  our  Church 
expects  more  from  its  members  in  this  regard  than  any  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  I  remember  reading  of  an  incident  where  a  man 
away  up  in  northern  Scandinavia,  in  that  cold,  hard  country,  where  it  is 
difficult  to  make  a  living,  heard  an  elder  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  again  restored  to  the  earth — faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
repentance,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  He 
received  the  witness  in  his  heart  to  the  truthfulness  of  this  message, 
and  he  went  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism.  He  soon  received 
the  spirit  of  gathering,  and  he  gathered  from  Scandinavia  to  Utah. 
After  he  had  been  here  a  little  while  the  bishop  called  on  him  and 
said :  "You  do  not  pay  any  tithing."  "Why,  I  never  heard  about  tith- 
ing." And  the  bishop  taught  him  the  law  of  tithing,  that  one-tenth 
of  all  that  he  made  belonged  to  the  Church  for  the  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel and  the  building  up  of  the  work  at  home  and  abroad.  This  man 
was  shocked  at  the  outrageous  "tax,"  of  the  Church,  as  he  termed  it, 
but  he  said :  "The  gospel  is  true,  and'  I  guess  I  ought  to  live  all  the 
laws."  After  a  great  struggle  he  finally  decided  to  comply  with  this 
law,  and  he  honestly  paid  his  tithing.  The  bishop  later  came  to  him 
and  said :  "You  do  not  pay  any  fast-day  donation  to  take  care  of  the 
poor;"  and  the  man  said,  "For  the  love  of  heaven,  isn't  ten  per  cent 
of  all  you  make  enough  to  take  care  of  the  poor?"  "No,"  the  bishop 
said ;  "but  we  do  not  ask  you  to  give  a  dollar.  All  we  ask  is  that  you 
fast,  that  you  fail  to  partake  of  food  for  two  meals  once  a  month — 

.  vou  are  not  asked  for  any  money,  but  simply  to  give  to  us  the  equiva- 
lent of  what  you  save.  You  can  consult  your  doctor,  and  you  will 
find  that  this  is  beneficial  to  your  health  to  fast  for  a  couple  of  meals 
once  a  month."  Well,  he  said,  he  did  not  know  about  that,  but  he 
finally  concluded  he  ought  to  do  his  share  for  the  poor,  so  he  fasted, 
and  in  fasting  he  partook  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  is  given  to 
us  when  we  fast  and  pray  to  God ;  and  he  rejoiced  in  paying  his  fast- 
day  donation.  Pretty  soon  the  bishop  came  to  him  and  said,  "We 
need  a  new  ward  meetinghouse."  "Well,  let  the  Church  build  it — 
the  tithing  ought  to  be  enough  for  that."  The  bishop  said,  "No,  the 
Church  will  not  build  it,  but  the  Church  will  give  one  dollar  for 
each  two  dollars  that  we  give.  You  know  we  need  a  new  meeting- 
house, in- which  to  worship  the  Lord."  He  kicked  and  kicked  hard,  to 
use  a  slang  phrase,  but  finally  concluded  that  they  needed  a  new 
meetinghouse,  and  he  wanted  to  do  his  share.  Next  the  bishop  came 
around  and  said,  "We  need  a-  Church  academy,  so  our  children  may 
not  only  be  educated  in  the  things  of  the  world — the  sciences,  arts, 
literature  and  so  on — but  in  the  things  of  God ;"  and  he  finally  per- 

,  suaded  him  to  donate  for  an  academy.  Then  he  came  and  said  to 
this  man:  "We  need  a  stake  meetinghouse."  He  complained  again, 
but  finally  donated  for  a  stake  house.    Then  the  bishop  came  around 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  said :  "Here,  brother,  we  are  making-  an  extra  effort  to  com- 
plete the  Salt  Lake  temple,  and  we  want  a  very  large  and  splendid 
donation  from  you.  You  have  been  very  prosperous ;  the  Lord  has 
blessed  you  since  you  came  to  this  land."  Tie  hemmed  and  hawed 
and  complained,  but  he  finally  gave  the  donation,  because  in  the  mean- 
time he  had  learned  this  glorious  principle  of  vicarious  labor  for  the 
dead  Some  people  ridicule  that  principle;  thev  say  it  is  absurd,  it 
is  ridiculous  that  we,  the  living,  can  do  work  for  the  dead.  People 
may  ridicule  this  principle,  but  the  very  foundation  of  all  Christianity 
is  based  upon  the  vicarious  labor  and  the  death  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  for  us.  So  this  man  finally  contributed  for  the  temple.  The 
academy  was  soon  completed,  and  his  boy  attended  and  in  due  time 
graduated  with  honor.  Then  the  bishop  called  on  him  and  said: 
"That  boy  of  yours  has  graduated  ;  he  has  made  a  fine  record,  and 
we  would  like  him  to  go  on  a  mission  to  his  father's  native  land. ,  It 
will  cost  you  about  $25  a  month  to  send  him  and  take  care  of  him." 
To  this  the  man  replied:  "Bishop,  that  is  the  straw  that  breaks  the 
camel's  back.  I  paid  tithing ;  I  paid  fast-day  donations ;  I  paid  for 
a  ward  house ;  I  paid  for  a  stake  house ;  I  paid  for  an  academy ;  I 
paid  for  the  completion  of  the  temple ;  but  if  the  Church  wants  my 
boy,  whom  I  had  expected  to  bring  me  in  at  least  seventy-five  dollars 
a  month  now  that  he  has  graduated,  they  will  have  to  pay  his  ex- 
penses or  he  will  not  go  on  a  mission."  "Well,"  the  bishop  said,  "that 
will  be  all  right,  he  will  not  go,  because  the  Church  is  not  paying  the 
expenses.  All  they  will  do  for.  him  is  to  bring  him  home  free  of 
charge  when  his  mission  is  completed.  They  will  do  that,  they  will 
bring  him  home  again.  That  will  be  the  limit."  "Well,  then,"  he 
said,  "he  will  never  go."  The  bishop  said,  "All  right.  Let  us  dis- 
miss the  subject  and  talk  on  something  else."  They  talked  on  for 
about  an  hour.  The  bishop  went  around  and  around,  and  finally  he 
came  to  the  native  land  of  this  man,  the  country  from  which  he  had 
come,  as  well  as  his  relatives  and  friends.  Then  he  said :  "By  the  way,- 
whom  do  you  love  more  than  anybody  else  on  the  earth,  except  your 
own  flesh  and  blood,  your  own  family?"  "Why,"  he  said,  "Bishop, 
more  than  any  other  person  that  draws  the  breath  of  life  I  love  the 
man  who  came  to  me,  away  up  in  the  midnight-sun  country  of  Scan- 
dinavia, and  brought  to  me  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
man  who  came  there  with'  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  who  touched 
my  heart,  and  melted  my  very  soul,  and  implanted  in  my  being  a 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God ;  I  love  him  beyond  my 
power  to  tell."  The  bishop  then  said,  "Wouldn't  you  like  somebody 
to  love  that  boy  of  yours  just  as  you  love  that  elder,"  "Bishop,"  he 
said,  "You  have  conquered  me  fair  and  square.  The  boy  can  go.  I  will 
pay  his  expenses." 

AN  ARMY  OF  MISSIONARIES. 

Love  of  God  and  love  of  our  fellow  men — the  first  great  ~om- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


27 


ivand,  the  Savior  said,  the  first  great  law  is  to  love  the  Lord  our  God 
with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  might,  mind  and  strength ;  and  the 
second  is  like  unto  it,  to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves.  I  want  to 
bear  witness  to  all  the  world  that  no  other  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth  can  show  such  love  of  God  and  such  love  of  their  fellow  men  as 
do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  about  2,000  missionaries,  on  an 
average,  out  in  the  world  preaching  the  gospel,  without  money,  with- 
out price,  without  being  sustained  except  from  their  own  pockets 
or  the  pockets  of  their  relatives — for  what?  Because  of  their  love 
of  God,  and  because  of  their  love  of  their  fellows,  to  deliver  the  mes- 
sage to  all  the  world  that  God  has  again  opened  the  heavens ;  that 
he  has  spoken  from  on  high ;  that  he  has  sent  his  messengers ;  that 
they  have  laid  their  hands  upon  the  servants  of  God  in  this  dav,  and 
restored  again  to  the  earth  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  liv- 
ing God,  and  the  power  to  build  up  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  upon  the  earth. 

We  have  recorded  here  in  the  back  of  this  book,  the  little  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

"We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus 
-    Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

BELIEF  IN  A  PERSONAL  GOD. 

We  believe  absolutely  in  God  our  Father.  I  remember  reading, 
while  I  was  in  England,  a  book  entitled,  "The  Young  Man  and  the 
World."  In  that  book,  written  by  Senator  Albert  J.  Beveridge,  there 
was  one  chapter  on  "The  Young  Man  and  the  Pulpit."  In  his  book, 
Mr.  Beveridge  says  that  any  man  who  enters  the  pulpit  to  preach,  if 
he  is  not  converted  in  his  heart  of  hearts  to  the  truth  of  that  which 
he  preaches,  commits  a  sacrilege  every  time  that  he  stands  up  in  his 
pulpit.  Then  he  said:  "A  certain  man,  with  good  opportunities  for 
getting  correct  answers,  during  an  entire  summer  vacation  asked 
tnree  questions  of  all  the  ministers  with  whom  he  came  in  contact. 
The  first  question  was :  "Do  yofi  believe  in  God,  the  Father — God  a 
person.  God  a  definite  and  tangible  intelligence — 'not  a  congeries  of 
laws  floating  like  a  fog  through  the  universe — but  God  a  person  in 
whose  image  you  were  made?  Don't  argue;  don't  explain;  but  is 
your  mind  in  a  condition  where  you  can  answer  yes  or  no?"  Not  a 
minister  answered  "Yes."  I  wish  to  say  that  there  is  not  a  boy,  there 
is  not  a  girl,  in  the  intermediate  classes  of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  nor  is  there  a  man  or  a  woman  in  all  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  who  would  not  answer  "Yes"  to  that  question.  We 
believe  that  we  are  the  children  of  the  living  God,  and  that  he  is  in 
very  deed  an  exalted  person.  Why?  Because  the  Lord  God  Al- 
mighty, nearly  a  hundred  years  ago,  appeared  to  a  little  boy  14  years 
•  of  age,  and  spoke  to  him.  This  boy  saw  that  God  our  Father  is  a 
glorified  man,  so  to  speak;  and  he  pointed  to  his  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus' 
Christ,  and  said  to  this  little  boy:    "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


him."  In  answer  to  a  simple  question  from  that  boy,  as  to  which  of  all 
these  denominations  of  the  world  he'  should  join,  the  Savior  told 
him  to  join  none  of  them,  because  they  had  all  gone  astray;  and  later 
he  was  called  to  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  restoring 
again  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  earth. 

The  next  question  in  Senator  Beveridge's  book  was :  "Yes  or  no, 
do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  sent  by 
Him  to  save  the  World?  I  am  not  asking  whether  you  believe  that 
he  was  inspired  in  the  sense  that  the  great  moral  teachers  are  inspired 
— nobody  has  any  difficulty  about  that ;  but  do  you  believe  that  Christ 
was  God's  very  Son,  with  a  divinely  appointed  and  definite  mission, 
dying  on  the  cross  and  raised  from  the  dead — yes  or  no?"  Not  a 
minister  answered,  "Yes."  They  went  on  to  explain  that  he  was  a 
great  moral  teacher.  Permit  me  to  deny  the  fact  that  he  was  a 
great  moral  teacher,  unless  he  was  the  Son  of  God.  He  himself  an- 
nounced that  he  was  the  Savior  of  the  world,  that  he  was  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God;  and 
therefore,  if  he  was  not  the  Son  of  God,  he  could  not  have  been  a 
great  moral  teacher,  because  the  foundation  of  his  mission  was  that 
he  was  God's  Only  Begotten  Son.  If  he  was  not  God's  Son,  he  could 
not  be  a  great  moral  teacher,  because  his  foundation  would  be  a  false- 
hood. 

The  next  question  was :  "Do  you  believe  that  when  you  die  you 
will  live  again  as  a  conscious  intelligence,  knowing  who  you  are 
and  who  other  people  are?  Answer  yes  or  no."  Not  one  of  them 
answered  "Yes." 

Every  man  and  every  woman  married  in  the  temple  on  this  block, 
or  in  any  of  the  temples  of  God,  are  married  for  time  and  for  all 
eternity.  We  believe  that  the  marriage  covenant  is  an  eternal  covenant, 
and  there  is  not  a  Latter-day  Saint  living  who  does  not  expect  to  have 
his  or  her  conscious  identity  beyond  the  grave.  Thank  God  for  the 
first  article  of  our  faith  and  our  absolute  knowledge,  of  God  and 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

"We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished  for  their  own  sins,  and 
not  for  Adam's  transgression."    I  shall  not  comment  on  that. 

"We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind 
may  be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel." 

■  We  find  the  following  in  a  revelation  from  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  section  76  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us. 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness; 

That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  has  put  into 
his  power,  and  made  by  him. 

Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  ex- 
cept those  sons  of  perdition,  who 'deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  hath  re- 
vealed him; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


29 


And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him,  that  he  lives; 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God,  end  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him  and  through  him,  and  o:  him  the  worlds  are  and  were  cre- 
ated, and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God. 

FIRST  PRINCIPLES  AND  AUTHORITY. 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  are: 
First,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  repentance;  third,  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth,  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gifl 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,. and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority  to  preach  the  gospel  and 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  all.  those  missionaries  who  have  gone 
out  to  preach  the  gospel — and  we  have  had  at  least  80,000  of  them, 
from  the  day  the  Church  was  first  organized — have  had  laid  upon 
their  heads,  the  hands  of  God's  authorized  servants,  men  who  held 
his  authority;  and  all  over  the  wide  world,  in  every  land  and  in  every 
clime,  from  the  midnight-sun  country  of  the  north  to  South  Africa, 
wherever  they  have  gone,  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  has  attended 
them.  From  every  land  and  from  every  clime  men  and  women  have 
received  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  have  embraced  the  gos- 
pel; and  all  the  wisdom  of  all  the  world,  the  wisdom  of  all  the 
churches,  in  all  the  world,  has  never  yet  been  able  to  convert  any  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  elder.  They  say  we  have  not  the  truth;  they  say  that 
we  are  deluded!  How  the  Lord  Almighty  has  neglected  for  nearly 
90  years,  the  honest,  faithful,  virtuous,  upright  Latter-day  Saints, 
having  failed  to  allow  any  of  their  missionaries,  or  of  their  converts  in 
the  world,  to  discover  the  error  of  this  gospel  as  taught  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints !  Yet  these  men  have  gone  forth  after  having  had 
hands  laid  upon  their  heads,  giving  them  authority  as  God's  ambas- 
sadors to  go  and  proclaim  the  truth,  and  from  every  denomination 
under  heaven  men  and  women  have  been  converted  to  the  gospel 
which  some  people  regard  as  a  delusion. 

BELIEF  IN  PROPHETS. 

"We  believe  in  the  same  organization  that  existed  in  the  primitive 
church,  viz;  apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc." 

I  shall  not  take  your  time  further  than  to  refer  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  We  believe  that  he  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  we  not 
only  believe  it  but  we  know  that  he  was.  Why?  He  declared  that 
he  would  be  chosen,  when  he  was  a  child,  and  he  was  chosen.  He 
announced  to  the  world  that  he  would  receive  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  he  did  receive  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  he  translated  from  the 
plates',  to  which  reference  has  been  made.  Eleven  men,  in  addition  to 
himself,  bear  witness  that  he  had  the  plates.    Eight  of  these  men  hand- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


led  them  and  saw  the  engravings,  and  the  plates  were  shown  to  three 
of  these  men  by  an  angel  of  God  who  came  down  from  heaven.  "Oh, 
but,"  says  one,  "I  don't  believe  it,"  but  if  eleven  honest,  reputable 
men  testified  that  a  man  had  committed'  murder,  that  man  would  hang 
all  right  or  be  shot.  There  is  no  one  who  can  say  that  the  statement 
of  the  witnesses  regarding  the  Book  of  Mormon,  is  not  true,  and 
there  are  tens  of  thousands  who  can  say,  by  the  witness  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  that  these  things  are  true.  Joseph  Smith  proclaimed  that  he 
would  yet  be  a  prophet,  before  he  was  one,  and  he  was  chosen.  He 
predicted  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  be  driven  from  city  to 
city  from  county  to  county,  from  state  to  state,  and  finally  driven  from 
the  confines  of  the  United  States  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  which  was 
then  Mexican  territory.  People  laughed  him  to  scorn  for  saying  that 
he,  whom  they  considered  a  miserable  upstart,  at  the  head  of  a  de- 
luded lot  of  people,  would  attract  the  attention  of  anybody  to  the  ex- 
tent that  they  would  be  driven  out  of  a  state,  and  particularly  be  driven 
beyond  the  confines  of  the  United  States.  He  also  announced  that  the 
day  would  come  when  not  only  a  city,  not  only  a  county,  not  only  a 
state  should  be  arrayed  against  the  handful  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
commonly  called  "Mormons,"  but  the  day  should  come  when  the 
whole  United  States  would  be  arrayed  against  them.  People  hooted 
at  that  statement,  but  the  day  did  come  when  we  were  driven  from 
city  to  city,  from  county  to  county,  and  state  to  state,  and  the  day 
did  come  when  we  were  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  where  he 
had  said  we  should  become  a  great  and  mighty  people.  And  that  is 
exactly  what  we  have  become,  because  in  proportion  to  our  numbers 
we  are  a  great  and  mighty  people,  and  people  are  beginning  to  recog- 
nize it  today.  Finally  the  United  States  of  America,  on  the  state- 
ments of  lying  judges  and  others  sent  an  army  against  us — for  doing 
what?  For  doing  what  we  never  did,  but  subsequently  the  govern- 
ment pardoned  us  for  our  sins  that  we  had  never  committed,  but  they 
sent  their  army  here  all  the  same.  And  later,  because  of  false  state- 
ments made  to  Congress,  the  government  confiscated  all  the  property, 
both  real  and  personal,  belonging  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  if  the  Lord  desired  doubly  to  fulfil  the  pre- 
diction of  Joseph  Smith.  I  picked  up  the  paper  day  after  day  myself, 
when  the  trial  was  going  on  here  in  the  courts,  and  read  in  bold 
headlines,  "The  United  States  of  America  ys.  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  laid  the  paper  down  and  said : 
"Thanks  be  to  Uncle  Sam  for  putting  the  absolute  stamp  of  divinity 
upon  the  utterances  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith !"  This  is  one  of 
the  reasons  why  we  believe  in  prophets — because  their  prophecies  are 
fulfilled.  It  is  only  fair  to  say  that  this  property  was  afterwards  re- 
stored to  the  Church  by  acts  of  Congress. 

EVANGELICAL  INSPIRATION. 

"We  believe  in  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists"- — 

There  is  no  need  of  believing  in  an  evangelist  unless  he  has  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


31 


evangelical  inspiration  of  his  office.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  when 
I  was  a  baby  my  mother  took  me  to  the  patriarch,  or  the  evangelist, 
Brother  Perkins,  who  afterwards  moved  to  St.  George  and  located 
there,  and  that  patriarch  put  his  hands  upon  my  head  and  bestowed 
upon  me  a  little  blessing  that  would  perhaps  be  about  one-third  of  a 
typewritten  page.  That  blessing  foretold  my  life  to  the  present 
moment.  The  promises  made  to  that  baby  have  been  fulfilled.  I  went 
to  Tooele  as  a  hoy  not  twenty-four  years  of  age,  to  preside  over  that 
stake  of  Zion.  I  was  without  experience,  and  I  felt  mightily  my  weak- 
ness. Soon  after  I  arrived  there  with  my  wife  and  two  little  babies, 
my  youngest  baby  was  taken  very  sick  and  came  nigh  to  death's  door. 
I  did  not  know  one  single  solitary  soul  in  Tooele  City  when  I  went 
out  there  except  John  Rowberry  and  Francis  M.  Lyman.  Brother 
Lyman  lived  next  door  to  me,  but  he  was  not  at  home.  Knowing  that 
my  little  baby  was  in  a  dying  condition,  I  sent  for  my  friend,  John 
Rowberry,  the  patriarch,  the  evangelist  in  that  stake  of  Zion,  asking 
him  to  come  and  assist  me  in  blessing  the  baby.  After  blessing  the 
little  one  he  said  :  "Brother  Grant,  looking  at  it  naturally,  your  baby 
is  going  to  die."  I  said,  "I  have  no  doubt  of  it,  unless  the  Lord 
hears  and  answers  our  prayers."  He  said,  "Well,  the  Lord  is  going 
to  hear  and  answer  them.  Go  and  get  a  table  and  a  piece  of  paper, 
and  sit  down  by  the  bed ;  I  want  to  give  this  baby  its  partiarchal 
blessing."  He  laid  his  hands  upon  that  baby  and  promised  her  that 
she  should  live ;  that  she  should  grow  to  womanhood ;  that  she  ..should 
marry  a  servant  of  the  living  God ;  that  she  should  become  a  mother  in 
Israel ;  that  she  should  become  a  leader  among  the  sisters  in  the  Church. 
A  year  or  so  ago,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  handed'  me  the  list  of 
Church  authorities  to  present  to  the  people,  as  he  quite  frequently 
did.  I  read  the  names  and  presented  them,  and  when  I  came  to  the 
last  name,  as  one  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  Association,  I  had  to  read  that  name  through  tears  of 
gratitude,  because  I  was  presenting  the  name  of  my  daughter,  who,  I 
believe,  but  for  the  power  of  God,  would  have  died  when  a  baby — I  was 
presenting  her  name  to  be  one  of  those  to  preside  among  her  sisters, 
over  thirty  or  forty-odd  thousand  of  the  young  women  in  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 

Why  do  we  believe  in  evangelists?  Because  they  have  the  in- 
spiration of  God,  the  inspiration  of  their  office  and  they  are  able  to 
foretell  the  lives  of  the  men  and  women  upon  whom  they  place  their 
hands.  While  in  Tooele,  I  received  a  patriarchal  blessing  myself  from 
this  same  man,  John  Rowberry,  and  he  promised  me  that  I  should  be 
taken  from  that  stake  of  Zion  and  become  a  leader  in  the  Church  of 
Christ ;  and  I  stand  here  today  a  witness  of  the  inspiration  of  God  to 
that  man,  John  Rowberry.  Not  only  did  he  promise  me  that,  but 
many  other  things,  all  of  which  have  been  fulfilled. 

THE  GIFTS  PROMISED,  AND  BESTOWED. 

"We  believe  in  the  gift  of  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  visions, 
healing,  interpretation  of  tongues,"  etc. — we  believe  in  the  gift  of 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tongues.  When  I  was  a  little  child,  in  a  Relief  society  meeting  held 
in  the  home  of  the  late  William  C.  Staines,  corner  South  Temple  and 
Fifth  East  streets,  my  mother  was  there,  "Aunt  Em"  Wells  was  there, 
Eliza  R.  Snow,  Zina  D.  Young,  and  many  others.  After  the  meeting 
was  over  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow,  by  the  gift  of  tongues,  gave  a  bless- 
ing to  each  and  everyone  of  those  good  sisters,  and  Sister  Zina  D. 
Young  gave  the  interpretation.  After  blessing  those  sisters,  she  turned- 
to  the  boy  playing  on  the  floor,  and  pronounced  a  blessing  upon  my 
head  by  the  gift  of  tongues,  and  Zina  D.  Young  gav.e  the  interpretation. 
I  of  course  did  not  understand  one  word  that  Aunt  Eliza  was  saying. 
I  was  astonished  because  she  was  talking  to  me  and  pointing  at  me. 
I  could  not  understand  a  word,  and  all  I  got  of  the  interpretation,  as 
a  child,  was  that  some  day  I  should  be  a  big  man.  I  thought  it  meant 
that  I  would  grow  tall.  My  mother  made  a  record  of  that  blessing. 
What  was  it?  It  was  a  prophecy,  by  the  gift  of  tongues,  that  her  boy 
should  live  to  be  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  ;  and  ofttimes 
she  told  me  that  if  I  would  behave  myself,  that  honor  would  come  to 
me.  I  always  laughed  at  her  and  said :  "Every  mother  believes  that 
her  son  will  become  president  of  the  United  States,  or  hold  some 
great  office.  You  ought  to  get  that  out  of  your  head,  Mother."  I  did 
not  believe  her  until  that  honor  came  to  me.  Tell  me  that  the  gift 
of  tongues  is  not  exercised  in  this  Church?  As  well  tell  me  that  I 
do  not  know  that  I  stand  here  today.  Subsequently  my  own  wife,  the 
mother,  of  the  haby  to  which  I  have  referred,  upon  one  occasion  when 
I  came  home  at  1  or  2  o'clock  in  the  morning,  having  been  working 
early  and  late  trying  to  meet  the  interest  on  my  obligations,  read  me  a 
lecture  about  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  She  said  to  me :  "You'd 
better  drink  tea  or  coffee,  or  even  use  tobacco,  rather  than  sit  up 
all  night  working.  You  are  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom."  Finally 
she  stopped  suddenly,  and  by  the  gift  of  tongues  she  made  a  predic- 
tion and  several  wonderful  promises,  among  others  that  I  should  live 
to  pay  all  my  obligations.  This  was  at  a  time  when  my  friends  were 
begging  me  to  take  the  bankruptcy  act.  Among  other  things  she  prom- 
ised that  I  should  live  to  lift  up  my  voice  in  many  lands  and  in  many 
climes,  proclaiming  the  gospel.  Since  then  I  have  lifted  up  my  voice 
in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  in  Japan,  in  Great  Britain,  Belgium,  Hol- 
land, the  three  Scandinavian  countries,  in  Canada,  in  Mexico,  and  in- 
almost  every  state  in  the  Union  of  the  United  States,  proclaiming  that 
I  know  that  God  lives,  proclaiming  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  I  have 
done  this  in  fulfilment  of  a  promise  made  on  my  head  by  my  wife, 
whose  body  now  lies  in  the  tomb,  who  made  this  promise  years  before 
it  came  to  pass.  I  will  not  take  up  further  time  on  that  article  of  our 
faith. 

OTHER  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH.' 

"We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 
-    "We  believe  all  that  God  has  reveaied,  all  that  he  does  now  reveal,  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


33 


we  believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  kingdom  of  God. 

We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering  of  Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of  the 
Ten  Tribes;  that  Zion  will  be  built  upon  this  (the  American)  continent; 
that  Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth;  and  that  the  earth  will  be 
renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory. 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let 
them  worship  how,  where  or  what  they  may. 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates, 
in  obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law. 

Yet  some  people  write  that  we  are  in  rebellion  against  the  United 
States ;  that  we  would  like  to  set  up  a  republic  of  our  own ;  that  we  are 
a  great  financial  combine  of  people  who  are  arranging  to  eventually 
conquer  our  country.  Our  boys  who  gave  their  lives  in  France ;  our 
boys  who  went  forth  in  far  greater  number  than  the  government  had 
requested/ according  to  our  population;  our  money  so  freely  given  for 
Liberty  and  Victory  bonds;  our  declaration  to  all  the  world,  through 
.  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  men  who  wrote  the  Constitution 
of  this  country  were  inspired  of  the  living  God — all  of  these  things 
give  the  lie  to  all  the  liars  who  are  perpetually  saying  that  we  are  op- 
posed to  this  country.  When  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  being  driven 
from  their  homes,  when  they  were  coming  to  these  Rocky  mountains 
in  fulfilment  of  the  prediction  of  Joseph  Smith — they  were  being 
expatriated ;  they  were  driven  from  the  confines  of  the  United  States, 
and  were  coming  to  Mexican  soil.  Our  country  was  then  in  trouble 
with  Mexico,  and  the  government  called  on  Brigham  Young  for  500 
men  to  help  fight  Mexico.  To  this  call  President  Young  replied : 
'You  shall  have  your  men,  and  if  we  have  not  enough  men  we  will 
furnish  you  women ;"  and  within  three  days  the  men  were  ready. 
That  Mormon  Battalion  went  to  California  and  discovered  gold.  Show 
to  me,  if  you  can,  in  all  the  history  of  the  world  another  case  of  a  peo- 
ple being  expatriated,  being  driven  from  their  own  country,  from  their 
own  lands  which  they  had  purchased,  being  driven  out  from  a  beau- 
tiful city,  the  last  remnant  of  them  crossing  the  Mississippi  river  in  the 
dead  of  winter,  on  the  ice,  nine  babies  being  born  during  the  night  of 
that  terrible  expulsion,  with  no  shelter  but  their  mother's  breasts, 
going  forth  on  their  journey  of  a  thousand  miles  in  the  wilderness, 
after  having  appealed  to  the  president  of  their  republic,  who  could  only 
say:  "Your  cause  is  just,  but  we  can  do  nothing  for  you" — show  me 
another  people,  I  say,  who  under  like  circumstances  would  have  fur- 
nished 500  men  to  fight  their  country's  battles!  Show  me  greater 
patriotism  and  loyalty  to  country  than  this !  It  can't  be  done.  Allow 
me  to  announce  that  from  the  day  of  Joseph  Smith  to  this  identical 
day,  the  leaders  of  this  people  have  had  absolute  respect,  love  and  rev- 
erence for  their  country.  Allow  me  to  announce  further  that  we  are 
patriotic  Americans  to  the  core,  and. that  we  have  learned  it,  many  of 
us,  at  our  mother's  knees,  where  we  said  our  prayers.  We  believe  abso- 
lutely in  the  inspiration  of  God  to  the  men  who  framed  our  Consti- 
tution. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


W_e  believe  in  being  Jionest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition 
of  Paul,  We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtu- 
ous, lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things. 

JUDGED  BY  THEIR  FRUITS. 

All  we  ask  of  the  world  is  to  remember  the  articles  of  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  to  judge  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  their  fruits. 
This  was  the  standard  that  the  Savior  gave  for  a  righteous  judgment. 
What  are  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism?"  No  people  in  these  United 
States  of  America  have  higher  financial  credit  than  the  "Mormons." 
No  other  people  in  these  United  States  of  America  have  as  low  a  death 
rate  as  the  "Mormons."  Vileness  and  wickedness  do  not  decrease  the 
death  rate.  No  people  of  the  same  number  can  produce  as  many  fine 
singers — and  fine  singing  does  not  go  with  corruption  and  wickedness. 
The  Lord  said  in-  a  revelation  to  the  wife  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
"For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart ;  yea,  the  song  of  the 
righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  shall  be  answered  with  blessings  up- 
on their  heads."  No  people  have  a  better  reputation  for  fulfiling  the 
first  great  commandment  of  God — "Multiply  and  replenish  the  earth." 
No  race  suicide  in  Utah ;  that  is,  in  the  "Mormon"  sections  of  Utah,  or 
in  the  "-Mormon"  communities  of  southern  Idaho,  or  in  Canada,  or  in 
Arizona,  or  Old  Mexico.  No  people  can  make  a  finer  record  in  failing 
to  produce  insane  than  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  yet  insanity  gen- 
erally comes  with  wickedness.  No  people  can  produce  fewer  criminals 
than  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  governor  of  the  state  of  Arizona 
remarked  some  time  ago  that  we  were  being  robbed  of  several  hun- 
dred per  cent  of  our  taxes,  because  none  of  our  people  were  in  the 
insane  asylum,  and  we  were  entitled  to  quite  a  number.  He  further 
said  that  we  were  being  robbed  of  two  or  three  thousand  per  cent  of 
our  taxes  because  we  had  only  one  inmate  in  the  penitentiary,  although 
we  were  entitled  to  twenty-five  or  thirty,  according  to  our  population. 
I  referred  to  this  statement  when  I  was  in  Arizona  a  short  time  ago, 
and  the  district  judge,  who  was  sitting  in  the  audience,  jumped  up  and 
said:  "Pardon  me,  Mr.  Grant,  but  that  one  has  since  been  pardoned." 
(Laughter.) 

I  see  I  have  talked  much  longer  than  I  had  intended.  I  rejoice  in 
the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  me  that  I  can  stand  up  in  all  sobriety 
and  testify  to  you  that  the  angel  of  God,  ninety-six  years  ago  today,  did 
appear  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  the  promises  made  to  that  boy 
have  been  fulfilled ;  that  he  did  become  a  prophet  of  God ;  that  he  died  a 
martyr  to  the  truth ;  that  his  blood  testified,  as  the  blood  of  all  martyrs 
has  done  in  ages  past,  to  the  divinity  of  the  work  that  he  has  estab- 
lished ;  and  I  bear  to  you  my  witness  that  God  has  given  to  me  a  knowl- 
edge that  he  lives  ;  that  Jesus  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  pray  for  light  and  knowledge  and  power 
and  ability  that  you  and  I,  every  one  of  us  who  have  received  this  testi- 
mony, may  so  order  our  lives  that  all  men,  seeing  our  sobriety,  seeing 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND.  35 

i 

the  uprightness  of  our  lives,  may  be  led  to  investigate  the  fruits  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ,  and  that  they,  too,  may  receive  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  This  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 

It  is  a  pleasant  sight  to  look  upon  so  many  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  come  to  our  conference  to  join  in  the  worship  of  God  and 
to  hear  our  leaders  speak  to  us,  to  encourage  us,  to  strengthen  us  in 
our  faith,  and  to  help  us  in  our  resolves  to  serve  God.  I  look  upon 
this  movement  of  coming  to  conferences  as  a  great  help  in  uniting 
the  Latter-day  Saints  both  in  faith  and  in  love. 

VALUE  OF  CONFERENCE  GATHERINGS  AND  SACRAMENT  MEETINGS. 

The  people  of  God  formerly  were  commanded  to  go  to  the 
temple  once  or  twice  a  year.  They  felt  it  a  duty  to  make  up  their 
companies  and  travel  to  Jerusalem  to  attend  the  services  in  the  temple 
of  God.  As  long  as  this  custom-  continued,  Israel  was  united,  but 
when  this  was  abandoned,  idolatry  took  place  of  the  true  worship. 
The.  Ten  Tribes  rebelled  against  Rehoboam  who  was  left  as  king  of 
the  tribes  of  Judah  and  Benjamin  only,  Jeroboam  saw  that  as  long, 
as  his  people  should  continue  to  go  to  Jerusalem  to  the  temple,  there 
would  be  a  union  with  the  people  living  there,  and  their  faith  would 
be  kept  up,  therefore  he  built  places  of  worship  on  the  hills,  tried  to 
lead  the  people  astray,  and  did  this  to  a  great  extent.  One  way  in 
which  he  accomplished  this  was  to  prevent  the  annual  gathering  of  the 
people  of  God  at  Jerusalem. 

We  come  here  from  many  different  places.  I  have  already  met 
this  week  people  from  Mexico  on  the  south  and  Canada  on  the  north, 
from  California,  from  the  East,  and  from  up  and  down  our  State  and 
Idaho,  who  have  come  here  to  attend  conference.  They  meet  with 
friends  and  old  acquaintances  and  friendships  are  renewed.  They 
attend  the  meetings  of  the  conference  and  hear  what  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  have  to  give  unto  them. 

We  have  this  morning  heard  from  our  President.  He  has  used 
the  vehicle  of  hymns  to  bring  to  us  some  great  truths,  encouraging 
and  inspiring  us,  and  his  teaching  has  been  accepted  by  us  all.  We 
feel  that  he  has  been  inspired  by  the  Lord  in  speaking  to  us,  and  that 
he  is  inspired  in  the  duties  and  labors  that  devolve  upon  him.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  as  a  people  ought  to  remember  the  words  he  has  spoken, 
and  carry  them  out  in  our  daily  lives. 

Our  meetings  at  conferences  here,  and  our  quarterly  confer- 
ences, all  tend  to  unite  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  could  not  ask  the  peo- 
ple to  attend  our  general  conferences  in  greater  numbers  than  they  do, 
as  we  are  not  able  to  give  them  all  a  chance  to  come  into  our  taber- 
nacle and  other  buildings  where  we  gather  at  our  general  conferences. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  would  like  to  ask  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  more  punctual  in  at- 
tending their  quarterly  conferences  both  Saturdays  and  Sundays. 
Generally  some  of  the  Twelve,  or  of  the  Council  of  Seventy,  or  other 
leading  men,  are  sent  out  to  the  stakes  to  attend  the  Stake  Confer- 
ences. These  ought  to  be  attended  well  by  the  people.  Those  who 
attend  will  thus  come  in  touch  with  the  central  government  of  the 
Church ;  they  will  learn  what  is  wanted,  and  they  will  be  built  up  in 
their  faith  and  strengthened  to  perform  their  duties.  We  love  to  see 
the  Saints  come  together,  not  only  in  their  conferences,  but  also  in  their 
sacrament  meetings,  their  quorum  meetings  and  different  meetings 
of  the  organizations  that  are  helps  in  the  government  of  the  Church. 
We  would  like  to  see  the  people  zealous  in  performing  this  duty. 

DUTY  OF  THE  SAINTS  IN  MEETING. 

When  we  come  together  and  someone  is  called  to  speak  unto 
us,  let  us  sustain  him  with  our  prayers,  pray  in  our  hearts  that  the 
Lord  will  lead  him  to  speak  unto  us  such  things  as  shall  be  for  our 
best  good,  and  if  we  do  this,  our  prayers  will  be  answered.  The 
speaker  will  be  led  to  speak  upon  such  things  as  are  needed  by  those 
who  have  assembled.  Our  brethren  very  seldom  write  out  their  ser- 
mons before  they  go  to  meeting,  except  in  cases  where  they  are  asked 
to  speak  on  a  certain,  subject.  That  does  not  mean  that  they  do 
as  the  man  to  whom  Bro.  N.  L.  Nelson  refers  in  his  work  on  preach- 
ing, as  quoted  by  our  President.  The  Lord  wants  us  to  fill  our  minds 
with  useful  knowledge  and  then  ask  him  to  lead  us  in  what  we  shall 
speak.  By  following  this  course  the  Lord  will  bring  forth  unto  us 
that  which  he  wants  us  to  give  unto  the  hearers.  When  the  speaker 
sits  down,  show  that  you  have  been  attentive  to  what  has  been 
said  by  saying  "Amen"  in  your  usual  pitch  of  voice,  as  much  as  to  say, 
"yes,  those  words  will  be  treasured  by  me."  We  did  that  formerly 
more  than  we  do  now.  We  used  to  give  our  "Amen"  so  that  all 
could  hear  it,  but  today  we  are  too  quiet  in  the  matter.  Let  us  show 
our  sympathy  with  and  our  assent  to  what  has  been  said,  by  giving 
a  good  audible'  "Amen"  at  the  close  of  the  discourse. 

THE  INSPIRATION  OF  JOSEPH  THE  PROPHET. 

I  will  read  a  verse  or  two  from  one  of  the  early  revelations.  I 
have  always  loved  to  read  those  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  in  the 
early  days,  because  they  prove  their  intrinsic  truth,  as  he  could  not 
have  seen  the  future  except  by  the  power  of  >God.  In  1828,  when  the 
Prophet  was  a  few  months  past  twenty-two  years  old,  he  received  a 
revelation,  in  which  we  find  these  words : 

For  although  a  man  may  have  many  revelations,  and  have  power  to  do 
many  mighty  works,  yet  if  he  boasts  in  his  own  strength,  and  sets  at  nought 
the  counsels  of  God,  and  follows  after  the  dictates  of  his  own  will  and 
carnal  desires,  he  must  fail  and  incur  the  vengeance  of  a  just  God  upon  him. 


PRESIDENT  ANT  HON  H.  LUND. 


37 


I  call  your  attention  to  this  revelation  given  almost  two  years 
before  the  organization  of  the  Church,  before  the  Prophet  had  had  any 
experience  in  Church  government,  and  in  the  various  ways  in  which 
men's  minds  act. 

When  it  says,  "although  he  may  have  many  revelations,"  most 
anyone  would  wonder  how  a  person  having  had  a  revelation  could 
ever  fall  away?  We  would  so  think  to  ourselves,  and  the  young 
man  Joseph,  if  it  had  been  his  own  invention,  would  not  have  thought 
of  putting  this  paragraph  in  the  revelation.  But  this  he  received 
from  on  high,  and  it  shows  that  the  Giver  understood  mankind  and 
understood  how  fickle  their  minds  often  are.  Oliver  Cowdery,  the 
second  elder  in  the  Church,  was  writing  for  Joseph  when  they  were 
translating  the  Book  of  Mormon.  In  doing  so  they  came  to  a  passage 
about  baptism  and  they  asked  the  Lord  concerning  that  ordinance. 
John  the  Baptist,  who  held  the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in 
the  days  of  the  Savior,  was  sent  to  them,  and  he  ordained  them  to 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  He  bestowed  upon  them  the  authority  to 
administer  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  he 
taught  them  how  they  should  be  baptized.  Oliver  and  Joseph  baptized 
each  other  according  to  the  instructions  given  by  the  angel.  Now, 
Oliver  Cowdery  saw  the  angel,  he  felt  his  hands  upon  his  head,  he 
knew  the  ordination  he  received  was  from  God.  At  Harmony  he 
was  helping  the  Prophet  as  his  scribe ;  and  once,  as  they  were  traveling 
close  to  the  Susquehanna  river,  tired  out  and  persecuted,  Peter,  James 
and  John  appeared  to  them  and  bestowed  upon  them  the  apostolic 
power  of  the  Priesthood.  This  was  a  great  comfort  to  them.  They 
had  now  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  as  well  as  the  Aaronic,  and  they 
were  authorized  not  only  to  baptize  but  to  confirm  members  in  the 
Church  and  bestow  upon  them  the  Holy  Ghost.  They  themselves  re- 
ceived this  and  they  were  authorized  to  so  administer  to  others. 

The  Church  was  not  yet  organized ;  a  few  were  baptized ;  but  on 
the  sixth  of  April,  1830,-  the  Church  was  organized,  we  generally  say, 
with  six  members.  There  were  more,  but  it  took  six  members  to  in- 
corporate. Then  the  Lord  told  Joseph  and  Oliver  that  they  were  to 
be  ordained  elders.  They  held  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  but  there 
were  no  offices  then  established  in  the  Priesthood.  When  the  offices 
were  instituted  Joseph  and  Oliver  were  sustained  by  the  people  in 
the  office  of  elders,  and  the  Church  was  directed  by  elders  for  about 
fourteen  months,  and  then  the  first  high  priests  were  ordained.  It  is 
remarkable,  when  you  read  the  revelation  concerning  the  government 
of  the  Church,  given  at  the  same  time  the  Church  was  organized,  to 
see  that  it  contains  really  the  law  of  the  Church,  and  this  has  not  been 
changed,  because  it  was  given  by  Him  who  understood  the  conditions 
and  needs  of  his  children  and  of  his  Church.  In  the  revelation,  in- 
structions were  given  both  about  the  organization,  about  the  duties  of 
the  different  officers  in  the  Church,  and  of  the  members. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  APOSTASY,  TESTIMONY,  AND  RETURN  OF  OLIVER  COWDERY. 

When  we  think  of  Oliver  Cowdery.  having  received  revelations 
— not  one  but  several — he  had  been  with  Joseph,  he  had  been  under 
that  holy  influence  when  Joseph  was  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and,  as  he  himself  describes  afterward,  felt  a  heavenly  feeling  per- 
vade his  soul,  as  he  sat  under  the  voice  of  the  Prophet  and  wrote  down 
what  the  Prophet  translated.  And  yet,  with  all  this,  a  time  came  when 
the  mind  of  Oliver  became  dark.  He  fell  into  transgression  and  was 
cut  off  from  the  Church.  It  shows  the  justice  of  the  Prophet  and  those 
in  the  council,  since,  although  he  held  such  a  high  place  in  the  Church 
he  was  not  treated  in  a  different  manner  from  the  lay  members  of  the 
Church.  But  during  the  time  that  he  was  in  a  state  of  excommunica- 
tion he  did  not  deny  the  testimony  to  which  his  name  is  attached  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon.   Those  things  he  had  seen. 

It  has  been  told  of  his  being  in  a  court  (he  was  a  lawyer  and  was 
conducting  a  case)  and  that  his  opponent  thought  he  would  gain  influ- 
ence over  the  jury  and  the  people  there  by  letting  them  know  that 
Oliver  Cowdery  had  signed  the  testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  That  did  not  keep  Oliver  from  speaking  the 
truth.  He  arose  and  bore  his  testimony  in  that  courtroom  to  all  pres- 
ent, stating  that  what  he  had  signed  there  was  the  truth,  because  he 
had  seen  with  his  eyes  an  angel,  that  he  had  seen  the  plates,  and  that 
he  knew  what  he  had  signed  was  true. 

After  a  while,  when  the  Church  had  reached  its  lowest  point,  al- 
most, the  Saints  had  been  driven  out  of  their  possessions,  had  gone  into 
the  wilderness,  the  world  thought  there  could  be  no  more  power  in  the 
"Mormon'  Church,  it  had  sung  its  last  verse.  But  not  so.  The  Saints 
were  under  the  Lord's  overruling  providence.  They  were  directed  to 
a  place  where  they  could  worship  him  according  to  his  dictates  and  de- 
sires. At  that  time  Oliver  Cowdery  came  to  the  Church  at  Council 
Bluffs.  Elder  Orson  Hyde,  a  man  whom  he  had  been  the  means'  of 
converting,  was  presiding  there.  The  Council  was  called  together, 
and  Oliver  had  to  be  accepted  like  every  other  person  who  has  been 
cut  off  from  the  Church.  The  people  accepted  his  humble  plea  to  come 
back  into  the  Church.  He  said,  "I  do  not  ask  for  office,  I  just  want 
to  get  within  the  pale  of  the  Church."  He  also  bore  a  strong  testimony 
of  its  truth.  It  was  not  the  hope  of  promotion  or  wealth,  because  the 
Church  did  not  look  like  it  would  ever  have  any  means,  or  that  the 
Church  would  ever  have  any  honor  to  bestow  on  people  in  the  Church, 
but  he  knew  that  it  was  the  Church  of  Christ.  His  conscience  smote 
him ;  he  felt  that  he  did  not  want  to  die  outside  the  Church,  and  he  was 
received  back  again.  He  went  down  to  the  home  of  his  brother-in-law, 
David  Whitmer,  in  Missouri,  and  died  there  some  five  or  six  months 
afterward. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


39 


ALL  THE  WITNESSES  PROVED  TRUE  TO  THEIR  TESTIMONY. 

The  same  can  be  said  of  all  the  Three  Witnesses  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  that  though  they  had  received  many  revelations  still  they  did 
leave  the  Church,  but  they  never  denied  their  testimonies  of  the  truth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  David  Whitmer  never  returned  to  the 
Church,  but  always  bore  a  faithful  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Martin  Harris  came  back  to  the  Church  and  on  his  death- 
bed he  bore  a  strong  testimony  of  what  he  had  seen. 

IN  REGARD  TO  CONVERSIONS  BY  MIRACLES,  AND  BY  THE  POWER  OF  THE 

SPIRIT. 

And  in  regard  to  miracles,  persons  having  come  into  the  Church 
by  seeing  extraordinary  healings,  or  by  seeing  signs,  knowing  that  they 
belonged  to  the  Church  of  Christ,  yet  after  witnessing  such  things  some 
have  left  the  Church.  One  of  the  first  apostates  came  into  the  Church 
by  seeing  a  wonderful  healing,  but  if  that  was  the  only  reason  for  his 
joining,  it  would  have  taken  miracles  every  day,  nearly,  to  have  kept 
him  there ;  he  apostatized  and  left  the  Church.  Those  of  us,  brethren 
and  sisters,  who  have  joined  the  Church,  and  have  had  the  Spirit  of 
God  conferred  upon  us  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and  have  received  the 
assurance  that  we  have  the  truth,  and  that  in  going  down  into  the 
waters  of  baptism  we  fulfilled  the  Lord's  command  to  us,  without  hav- 
ing seen  miracles,  are  just  as  strong  in  our  testimony  as  those  who 
have  had  ocular  manifestations,  because  what  you  see  with  your  eyes 
and  hear  with  your  ears  is  brought  to  the  spirit  through  the  different 
channels  of  your  bodily  senses,  while  those  who  receive  a  testimony 
through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  acting  upon  their  spirits  receive  as 
strong  a  conviction  of  the  truth  as  those  who  get  it  through  their 
bodily  senses. 

How  many  of  you  who  have  received  the  testimony  through  the 
Spirit  could  become  convinced  that  you  are  mistaken?  You  feel  that  the 
Lord  has  given  you  a  knowledge  for  yourself ;  you  know  that  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord ;  you  know  that  the  Savior  lives ;  you  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  an  inspired  prophet  of  God,  and  as  long  as  you 
perform  your  duty,  and  hold  yourselves  near  to  the  Lord  in  prayer, 
that  testimony  cannot  be  taken  from  you.  But  if  we  neglect  our  duties, 
if  we  do  things  contrary  to  the  will  of  the  Lord,  we  can  become  dark. 
We  can  see  in  this  hall  at  night  when  it  is  lighted  up,  but  going  out 
where  it  is  dark  we  may  remember  what  we  have  seen  in  the  lighted 
hall,  remember  the  light  that  lightened  it ;  but  outside,  when  we  go 
into  the  land  of  the  enemy,  we  cannot  see  our  way,  and  w£  may  even 
kick  against  the  pricks ;  we  may  do  that  which  we  once  knew  to  be 
wrong.  Hence,  let  none  ot  us  forget  how  precious  is  the  testimony  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  to  know  that  God  lives,  that  his  Son  lives,  and  that 
his  Son  is  coming  again  and  will  restore  his  kingdom  upon  the  ea^th. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  DUTY  OF  PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL  TO  THE  WORLD. 

r 

The  time  is  hastening,  the  end  of  the  sixth  millennium  is  neer. 
The  seventh  millennium,  it  has  been  predicted,  will  be  a  reign  of  a  thou- 
sand years  of  peace,  then  Christ  will  reign,  then  the  work  for  the 
salvation  of  the  human  family,  from  the  time  of  Adam  down  to  the 
present,  will  be  remembered,  and  all  things  both  in  heaven  and  on  the 
earth  will  be  gathered  together  in  one  and  delivered  over  to  Christ. 
What  a  happy  time  it  will  be,  when  peace  shall  reign  on  earth,  when 
men  will  accept  the  word  of  the  Lord !  Satan  will  be  bound,  and  will 
not  be  able  to  stir  up  men  to  war  against  one  another,  nor  against 
God.  What  a  beautiful  picture  is  spread  before  us  when  we  contem- 
plate this  happy  time!  Let  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  remember  the 
covenants  we  have  made  with  the  Lord,  let  us  work  faithfully  to  per- 
form our  duties  and  remember  the  great  duty  that  rests  upon  us  to 
spread  the  light  to  the  world. 

CONDITIONS  IN   MISSION  FIELDS. 

»  ■ 

Just  now  we  are  prevented  from  sending  elders,  like  we  used  to 
do,  into  different  European-  countries  and  to  "the  islands  of  the  sea 
that  are  under  the  English  government.  They  have  been  kind  enough, 
however,  to  allow  a  few  of  our  elders  to  go  there.  But  we  cannot 
send  them  as  we  formerly  did  when  we  have  the  elders  ready  to  go. 
But  our  adversary  -will  not  be  able  to  stop  this  work;  it  is  not  in  his 
power.  If  our  elders  cannot  go  from  Zion,  we  will  have  elders  over 
there  who  will  be  inspired  of  the  Lord  to  guide  those  who  join  the 
Church,  and  to  bear  testimony  to  the  outsiders  and  bring  many  into  ihe 
Church.  I  was  pleased  to  hear  Brother  Richards,  upon  his  return  from 
England,  tell  us  that  when  they  did  not  have  elders  enough  from  Zion 
to  place  in  charge  of  the  conferences,  they  would  take  local  elders, 
and  they  found  even  young  men  who  really  showed  that  they  had  abil- 
ity to  become  splendid  presidents  of  conferences.  The  people  listened 
to  them  and  accepted  them  as  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  the  work 
was  not  stopped.  The  same  was  true  in  Scandinavia.  We  have  had  to 
use  local  elders  over  there  to  a  great  extent,  yet  the  work  is  going  on. 
The  Saints  feel  more  united.  They  long,  of  course,  for  the  elders  from 
here  to  come  as  they  used  to,  but  as  they  cannot  have  them,  they  are 
able  to  take  hold  of  the  work  themselves  and  to  carry  it  on. 

We  had  a  letter  from  Liege, Belgium,  the  other  day,  which  informs 
us  that  when  the  Germans  moved  into  that  city  they  took  all  the  halls 
belonging  to  the  city  and  installed  their  soldiers.  Our  elders  were 
counseled  to  go  over  to  England,  and  the  Saints  were  left  to  them- 
selves and  could  not  hold  meetings.  But  it  was  not  long  before  some 
of  the  Saints  opened  their  doors,  and  they  could  meet  to  hold  Sunday 
School  and  meetings  in  private  homes,  until  at  last  they  got  their  hall 
back,  and  then  the  branch  at  Seraing  joined  the  branch  at  Liege,  and 
together  they  met  both  in  Sunday  School  and  sacrament  meetings. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


41 


But  they  did  not  have  elders  or  priests  to  administer  the  sacrament, 
so  an  elder  visited  them  once  a  month,  and  he  blessed  their  children 
and  confirmed  those  who  had  joined  the  Church.  For  in  that  branch 
there  were  fourteen  who  joined  the  Church;  and  this  elder  performed 
this  work  until  at  last  someone  could  be  sent  to  labor  there.  So  you 
see  that  the  Lord  can  overrule  for  good  whatever  happens,  and  bless 
the  Saints,  and  instil  in  their  hearts  a  love  for  the  truth  that  cannot  be 
taken  from  them.  During  the  time  that  they  were  alone  they  remem- 
bered their  tithing,  and  sent  it  every  month  to  Rotterdam,  to  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Netherlands  Mission,  and  they  also  gathered  nearly  four 
thousand  francs  for  their  poor.  They  were  all  poor,  too,  but  they  re- 
membered some  who  were  worse  off  than  they  were,  thus  showing 
their  love  both  for  the  Church  and  for  their  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  understand  that  although  our  elders  were  withdrawn  from  Ger- 
many, branches  have  continued  to  prosper.  The  President  of  the 
Swiss  and  German  Mission  has  not  been  able  to  get  into  the  German 
part  of  the  Mission  until  the  present  time.  I  believe  he  is  traveling 
there  now,  the  Trustee-in-Trust  having  .authorized  him  to  ascertain 
how  much  means  is  needed  to  help  our  poor  Saints  who  are  in  distress. 
I  think  he  got  permission  to  visit  the  different  branches ;  but  during  the 
time  that  the  Saints  have  been  isolated,  they  have  continued  to  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings,  and  to  meet  together  to  edify  one  another. 

THE  VITALITY  OF  "MORMONISM." 

So  you  see  and  realize  the  "Vitality  of  'Mormonism'  "  in  this,  as 
Brother  Talmage  has  written  about  so  clearly.  It  does  exist,  and  our 
enemies  can  not  stop  this  work.  It  is  of  God,  it  will  gain  the  victory ; 
and  it  will  grow,  as  the  President  said,  until  it  shall  fill  the  whole  earth. 
That  is  the  destiny  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  God  bless  us 
all.  Amen. 

Louisa  Watson  sang  a  solo :  "Fear  not  ye,  O  Israel." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  regret  to  all  of  us,  I  believe,  to  learn  from  the 
despatches,  received  this  morning,  that  the  President  of  the  United 
States  is  in  a  very  critical  condition  of  health.  I  wish  to  say  that  I 
was  profoundly  impressed  with  all  that  he  said  from  this  stand,  during 
his  recent  visit,  and  that  it  met  with  my  hearty  approval.  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  meeting  him  at  the  hotel,  and  I  was  impressed  with  the 
honesty  and  sincerity  of  his  motives.  I  believe  that  he  desires,  with  all 
the  power  of  his  being,  to  accomplish  that  which,  in  his  estimation,  is 
for  the  good  of  mankind  the  world  over. 

After  the  singing  of  the  Doxology,  by  the  congregation,  we  will  ask 
that  you  all  join  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  in  the  benediction,  and  pray 
for  the  recovery  of  the  health  of  our  President  of  these  United  States. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  Doxology : 

Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow; 
Praise  Him,  all  creatures  here  below; 
Praise  Him  above,  ye  heavenly  host, 
Praise  Father,  Sop  and  Holy  Ghost. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles : 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Almighty  God,  our  Heavenly  Father, — the  Author  of  our  being 
and  the  Giver  of  all  that  we  enjoy,  the  Source  of  all  power  and  the 
Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men, — we  desire  to  render  gratitude  and 
praise  unto  thee  at  this  time  for  the  words  of  inspiration  that  have 
been  spoken  from  this  stand  at  the  opening  of  our  general  conference. 
We  pray  thee  to  sanctify  them  to  our  good,  and  to  strengthen  and  in- 
spire us  to  go  forth  with  a  renewed  determination  to  serve  thee  and  to 
keep  thy  commandments,  to  promote  thy  cause  and,  with  all  the  power 
that  we  possess,  reinforced  by  thy  power  resting  upon  us,  to  build  up 
the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  We  dedicate  this  servivce  unto  thee 
and  ask  thee  to  hearken  unto  our  petition. 

We  pray  especially,  our  Father,  for  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  thy  servant  who  so  recently  addressed  us  from  this  stand,  and 
with  whose  remarks  and  sentiments  and  the  truths  that  he  uttered  our 
hearts  were  so  powerfully  impressed  and  our  minds  illumined.  We  de- 
sire, with  all  our  hearts,  that  his  life  may  be  spared,  that  thou  wilt 
deliver  him  from  the  sickness  that  now  afflicts  him,  that  thou  wilt  re- 
buke the  destroyer  in  his  behalf  and  raise  him  up  to  continue  the  mighty 
work  unto  which  thou  hast  called  him.  We  pray  thee,  O  God,  to 
touch  him  with  a  healing  touch,  to  let  the  peace  and  light  and  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  rest  upon  him.  Give  him  the  faith  to  be  healed.  Bless 
those  about  him  with  faith  and  with  the  full  command  of  all  their 
knowledge  and  skill  and  judgment  and  wisdom,  that  they  may  render  to 
him  the  assistance  of  which  he  stands  in  need;  and  all  that  is  done  for 
him,  may  it  have  thy  blessing  upon  it  to  this  end,  that  he  may  be  spared 
to  continue  the  work  which  thou  hast  given  him  to  do. 

We  pray  for  all  the  leaders  of  the  Nation.  We  pray  for  our  Coun- 
try. We  pray  for  the  cause  of  right  and  truth  and  freedom,  that  it 
may  prevail ;  that  thy  Kingdom  may  come  and  thy  will  be  done  on  earth 
as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 

We  ask  these  blessings  and  invoke  thy  blessing  in  dismissal,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 


43 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays; 
We  thank  Thee  for  every  blessing  " 

Bestowed  by  Thy  bounteous  hand; 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  Thee, 

And  love  to  obey  Thy  command. 

When  dark  clouds  of  trouble  hang  o'er  us 

And  threaten  our  peace  to  destroy, 
There  is  hope  smiling  brightly  before  us, 

And  we  know  that  deliverance  is  nigh; 
We  doubt  not  the  Lord  nor  His  goodness, 

We've  proved  Him  in  days  that  are  past; 
The  wicked  who  fight  against  Zion 

Will  surely  be  smitten  at  last. 

We'll  sing  of  His  goodness  and  mercy, 

We'll  praise  Him  by  day  and  by  night. 
Rejoice  in  His  glorious  Gospel, 

And  bask  in  its  life-giving  light; 
Thus  on  to  eternal  perfection 

The  honest  and  faithful  will  go, 
While  they  who  reject  this  glad  message 

Shall  never  such  happiness  know. 

Elder  William  Lennox  Adamson,  President  of  the  Blaine  stake 
of  Zion,  offered  prayer. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah, 

Guide  us  to  the  promised  land, 
We  are  weak,  but  Thou  art  able — • 

Hold  us  with  Thy  powerful  hand. 
Holy  Spirit, 

Feed  us  till  the  Savior  comes. 

Open,  Jesus,  Zion's  fountains, 

Let  her  richest  blessings  come, 
Let  the  fiery,  cloudy  pillar 

Guard  us  to  this  holy  home. 
Great  Redeemer, 

Bring,  O  bring  the  welcome  day! 

When  the  earth  begins  to  tremble, 

Bid  our  fearful  thoughts  be  still; 
When  Thy  judgments  spread  destruction, 

Keep  us  safe  on  Zion's  hill. 
Singing  praises, 
Songs  of  glory  unto  Thee. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot,  from  the  time  that  I  became  one  of  the 
general  authorities,  to  come  in  close  business  relations  with  many  in- 
fluential people,  both  on  the  Pacific  and  the  Atlantic  coasts,  as  well  as 
in  the  cities  between.  When  I  was  a  small  boy,  about  twelve  years  of 
age,  Col.  Alex.  G.  Hawes,  the  Western  Manager  of  the  New  York 
Life  Insurance  Company,  came  to  board  at  my  mother's  home.  He 
subsequently  returned  with  his  bride,  and  his  first  child  was  born  in 
our  house.  He  became,  without  any  exception,  the  dearest  and  best 
friend  that  I  had  in  all  the  world,  aside  from  my  own  people,  and  my 
association  with  him,  I  believe,  was  as  intimate  as  it  was 
possible  to  have  with  any  man.  He  treated  me  almost  like  a  father ; 
and  in  the  panic  of  1893,  hearing  that  I  might  fail  in  busi- 
ness, he  wrote  and  told  me  he  had  arranged  to  mortgage  his  home, 
to  get  money  to  assist  me.  He  had  tried  at  every  commercial  bank 
in  the  city  where  he  lived  to  borrow  money  on  first  class  collateral  se- 
curity, to  send  me ;  none  of  tRem  were  making  loans.  "But,"  he  said, 
"the  savings  banks  are  loaning;  they  loan  only  on  real  estate,  and  I 
have  no  real  estate  except  the  home  in  which  I  live.  I  have  arranged 
for  a  loan  on  my  home,  and  if  it  will  save  your  financial  life,  do  not 
write,  but  telegraph  immediately  upon  receipt  of  this  letter,  and 
I  will  transfer  the  money  to  you  by  wire,  as  delays  are  dangerous." 

I  could  not  hold  back  the  tears  of  gratitude  that  filled  my  eyes, 
to  think  that  a  man  of  the  world  would  make  such  an  offer  as  this  to 
me  in  my  time  of  distress.  He  subsequently  secured  for  me  the  agency 
for  Utah  of  the  great  company  with  which  he  was  connected,  and  for 
one  year  I  was  their  representative  in  connection  with  my  associates 
in  this  city.  At  that  time  a  gentleman  by  the  name  of  Darwin  P.  Kings- 
ley  was  the  superintendent  of  agencies,  and  subsequently  became  the 
president  of  that  company.  The  day  before  yesterday  I  received  a  very 
beautifully  bound  volume  of  some  four  hundred  pages,  containing 
speeches  made  by  himself  mainly  upon  this  great  question  of  peace,  and 
questions  connected  with  the  war.  I  have  read  with  intense  interest 
something  over  one  hundred  and  fifty  pages  of  these  speeches,  since 
the  book  arrived,  and  they  strike  a  very  responsive  chord  in  my  under- 
standing of  the  situation.  I  remarked  here  this  morning  that,  like 
the  congressman,  I  was  going  to  ask  permission  to  reprint  my  speech 
of  two  weeks  ago.  I  am  going  to  do  the  same  here  again  this  after- 
noon, and  shall  have  printed  in  tomorrow  night's  News  one  of  Presi- 
dent Darwin  P.  Kingsley's  speeches  on  the  League  of  Nations,  con- 
taining also  a  splendid  tribute  to  President  Wilson.  We  will  now  be  ad- 
dressed by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  45 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  feel  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference  ; 
also  for  the  opportunity  of  speaking  for  a  short  time  to  this  vast  con- 
greation.  Although  I  am  not  altogether  unaccustomed  to  public 
speaking,  but  have  had  some  experiences  at  home  and  abroad  in  this 
direction,  I  approach  the  task  imposed  upon  me  this  afternoon  with 
some  timidity. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  THE  RESTORED  GOSPEL. 

I  feel  keenly  the  need  of  the  spirit  of  my  office  and  calling  to  qual- 
ify me  for  saying  anything  today,  after  the  splendid  utterances  that 
were  delivered  from  this  stand  during  the  morning,  and  I  hope 
that  I  shall  have  your  attention  and  your  faith  and  help  while  I  stand 
here  occupying  this  position.  The  Lord  has  been  very  merciful  and 
kind  to  me  since  I  embraced  the  gospel,  restored  in  the  latter  days, 
when  I  was  but  a  boy,  and  through  all  my  travels  and  labors  and 
struggles  he  has  been  with  me  by  trie  power  of  his  Spirit,  and  in  the 
public  congregation,  this  afternoon,  I  express  to  him,  although  in  feeble 
language,  the  gratitude  of  my  soul,  the  desires  of  my  heart  that  I  shall 
be  able  to  continue  in  this  splendid  work  in  which  we  are  all  engaged 
as  long  as  I  live  in  the  flesh,  and  then  be  able  to  carry  on  the  work 
when  I  pass  beyond  the  veil,  and  come  into  the  society  of  the  great 
men  and  women  with  whom  I  have  been  associated  in  years  that  are 
past,  in  the  same  mighty  cause.  It  is  the  cause  of  God  and  of  hu- 
manity, his  children,  for  it  involves  the  happiness  and  salvation  of 
many  millions,  and  the  exaltation  of  those  among  them  who  received 
the  gospel  in  the  flesh,  or  afterwards  received  it  in  its  fulness,  and 
prepared  themselves  thereby  to  associate  with  the  good  and  the  true 
and  the  best  of  mankind. 

Ever  since  I  heard  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored  in  these 
last  days,  preached  by  the  elders  of  Israel  and  published  in  the  books 
of  the  Church,  I  have  been  filled  with  joy  and  satisfaction,  for  it  seemed 
natural  to  me  to  receive  these  things.  Although  not  one  of  my  family 
and  kindred  received  this  gospel,  yet  It  seemed  perfectly  natural  to 
me  to  drink  in  of  the  streams  that  flowed  from  the  eternal  fountain, 
and  today  I  bless  and  praise  the  name  of  the  Lord  for  his  goodness  to 
me,  in  opening  the  eyes  of  my  understanding  and  enabling  me  to  see 
and  comprehend  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  I  am  enabled 
so  far  to  continue  in  the  path,  in  the  good  work  of  the  Lord.  I  can 
say,  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  my  course  has  been  always,  ap- 
parently, up-stream.  I  have  not  been  favored  like  some  of  my  breth- 
<-n  with  having  been  born  in  the  faith,  or  of  parents  that  were  in  the 
faith,  or  of  associations  until  I  came  in  the  Church  with  people  called 
Saints ;  so  my  career  during  all  the  years  that  I  have  been  in  the  service 
of  the  Church  has  been  one  continual  struggle,  so  to  speak.  But  my 
path  has  been  a  pleasant  path,  so  far  as  enjoying  the  principles  of  eter- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


nal  life  is  concerned,  and  so  far  as  the  influences  that  have  been 
thrown  around  me  in  the  gospel  and  in  my  associations  with  the  Saints 
and  servants  of  the  living  God,  it  has  been  a  continual  pleasure  to  me, 
and  today  I  rejoice  with  all  my  soul  that  I  am  in  harmony  with  my 
brethren  in  the  Priesthood  and  with  the  Saints  of  God  who  desire  to 
serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

IN  HARMONY  WITH  THE  BRETHREN  ON  THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS. 

This  is  a  glorious  day  for  me.  I  find  myself  in  perfect  harmony 
with  that  which  has  been  said  by  our  brethren  today,  and  with  the  sen- 
timents expressed  by  President  Grant,  a  week  ago  last  Sunday,  in 
which  I  believe  most  of  the  people,  at  any  rate  those  who  heard  or 
have  read  the  remarks  that  he  made,  feel  that  they  were  right  and 
true  and  applicable  to  the  present  situation.  I  take  great  pleasure  in 
announcing  that  so  far  as  I  know,  all  our  close  associates,  the  First 
Presidency,  and  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  are  here  at  home — some 
of  them  are  away — are  in  accord  with  President  Grant  in  that  which 
he  did  in  reply  to  the  manifesto,  as  it  is  called,  sent  from  the  East, 
which  came  by  telegraph,  and  he  telegraphed  back  his  pleasure  in  sign- 
ing his  name  with  that  of  Ex-President  Taft  and  a  number  of  other 
prominent  American  citizens,  desiring  that  the  pact  or  covenant  of  the 
League  of  Nations  should  be  approved  by  the  Senate  of  the  United 
States  and  that  without  delay,  making  some  little  lee-way  for  clarifica- 
tions, perhaps,  in  some  of  the  text,  so  long  as  it  did  not  interfere  with 
the  full  signing  of  the  treaty.  I  believe  we  are  of  one  heart  and  mind 
on  that  particular  question,  but  we  do  not  call  into  question  the  sin- 
cerity of  some  of  our  friends  who  do  not  see  exactly  as  we  do  on  this 
matter. 

CONCERNING  LIBERTY  AND  LABOR  ORGANIZATIONS. 

I  am  also  in  hearty  accord  with  President  Grant  in  the  sentiments 
expressed  this  morning  concerning  the  liberties  of  mankind.  I  believe 
in  the  doctrines  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence ;  I  believe  in  the 
principles  set  forth  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States ;  I  also 
believe  in  the  destiny  of  this  great  government  which  God  set  up,  the 
constitution  of  which  was  written  by  men  who  were  raised  up  for  the 
very  purpose  of  placing  on  record  principles  that  will  bring  about, 
eventually,  the  freedom  of  "all  flesh."  I  believe  it  is  the  destiny  of  this 
great  nation  to  carry  the  principles  embodied  in  the  two  instruments 
I  have  named  to  all  the  world,  and  that  this  will  be  a  preparation  for 
that  great  day  of  universal  peace  referred  to  by  President  Lund,  this 
morning.  The  liberty  of  mankind  is  not  to  be  limited  except  to  the  ex- 
tent of  oppressive  tyrannizing  over  and  preventing  the  freedom  of  peo- 
ple who  differ  from  us.  I  agree  with  President  Grant  on  that  matter 
that  he  talked  about  this  morning, — that  it  is  right  for  men  to  have  the 
liberty  to  combine  for  their  own  benefit,  for  the  raising  of  wages,  for 
the  shortening  of  hours  of  labor,  for  anything  that  will  be  for  their 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  47 


good  and  benefit,  but  they  must  not  exercise  that  in  a  way  to  infringe 
the  liberties  of  others  who  do  not  see  as  they  see.  The  idea  of  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  a  man  holding  the  Priesthood  of  the  Most  High,  given 
for  a  blessing,  for  persuasion,  for  instruction,  for  light  and  for  the 
liberties  of  mankind,  saying  that  a  brother  in  the  Church  shall  not  have 
the  privilege  of  obtaining  work  for  the  support  of  himself  and  family, 
unless  he  joins  some  society  and  has  a  card  to  show  his  membership 
therein!  That,  I  think,  is  going  far  beyond  the  bounds  of  the  liberty 
of  American  citizens.  We  have  no  right  to  trench  upon  the  freedom 
of  others.  It  is  permissible  to  stand  up  for  our  own  individual  rights, 
to  stand  up  for  the  rights  of  any  association  with  which  we  are  con- 
nected, unless  such  association  involves  oppression  and  tyranny  upon 
any  portion  of  mankind. 

THE  LORD  HAS  SET  UP  THE  ENSIGN  OF  PEACE. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Later-day  Saints  was  revealed  from 
heaven  in  the  last  days,  to  bring  about  the  liberties  of  the  world.  For 
all  nations  the  Lord  has  "set  up  an  ensign"  as  the  Prophet  Isaiah  pre- 
dicted he  would.  Read  the  18th  chapter  of  the  book  of  Isaiah,  also  the 
11th  chapter  and  the  Sth  chapter.  I  will  not  turn  to  them  now — you  get 
them,  and  read  them.  The  Lord  declared  that  some  time  he  would  raise 
an  ensign  to  the  nations  of  the  earth :  "All  ye  inhabitants  of  the  world, 
and  dwellers  on  the  earth,  see  ye,  when  he  lifteth  up  an  ensign  on 
the  mountains ;  and  when  he  bloweth  a  trumpet,  hear  ye."  The  ensign 
has  been  raised.  Brother  Brigham,  when  he  went  up  on  the  moun- 
tain here  just  after  the  arrival  of  the  pioneers,  said  tnat  was  "a  good 
place  to  raise  an  ensign."  I  don't  know  that  the  ensign  was  raised  right 
then  and  there,  but  the  real  ensign  alluded  to  is  the  ensign  of  peace 
which  is  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  sent  down  from  heaven  anew  in 
these  last  days.  It  is  to  be  brought  by  Zion,  as  Isaiah  the  prophet 
said,  "Oh,  Zion,  that  bringest  good  tidings,  get  thee  up  into  the  high 
mountain."  That  has  been  fulfilled  in  the  coming  here  of  the  people 
who  are  now  gathered  in  these  mountain  valleys,  and  the  word  of  the 
Lord  is  going  forth  and  it  is  to  be  carried  to  every  nation  and  kindred 
and  tongue  and  people. 

THE  REVELATIONS  OF  GOD  AND  THE  COVENANT  OF  PEACE. 

Some  of  our  brethren  will  say,  perhaps :  •But  do  not  the  revela- 
tions of  God,  ancient  and  modern,  declare  that  there  will  be  tribula- 
tions and  troubles  and  wars  and  bloodshed  in  the  last  days?"  Cer- 
tainly. Is  that  any  reason  why  an  ensign  of  peace  should  not  be 
lifted  up?  Is  that  any  reason  why  the  gospel  of  peace  should  not 
be  preached?  Is  that  any  reason  why  nations  and  communities  and 
clubs  and  associations  shall  not  be  formed  for  the  establishment  of 
peace,  for  the  proclamation  of  peace,  for  attempts  to  bring  about  har- 
mony among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  preparing  them  for  that  day  of 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


universal  peace?  I  see  nothing  in  any  of  the  revelations  of  God, 
ancient  or  modern,  that  should  stop  or  hinder  in  any  way  proper 
efforts  made  for  the  bringing  together  of  the  nations  of  the  earth 
in  a  bond  of  peace.  President  Grant  read  some  hymns  this  morning, 
all  appropriate,  all  having  good  texts.  I  would  like  to  read  a  hymn 
that  we  used  to  sing  when  I  was  a  boy,  when  I  first  embraced  the 
gospel,  written  by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  one  of  our  splendid  poets,  one 
of  the  great  men  of  the  latter  days,  one  who  proclaimed  the  gospel 
at  home  and  abroad.  Here  is  what  he  says,  on  page  102  of-our  Hymn 
Book,-  hymn  92.  He  was  the  author  of  the  first  hymn  in  the  book, 
the  Church  hymn  book.  I  don't  say  anything  against  Psalmodies,  or 
The  Songs  of  Zion — they  are  all  good,  but  there  is  our  Hymn  Book, 
not  bound  quite  so  well  as  it  might  be,  perhaps,  but  it  is  our  Church 
Hymn  Book,  very  difficult  to  find  in  many  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
and  in  some  of  the  wards  you  cannot  find  one,  but  he  is  the  author 
of  the  first  hymn,  a  most  splendid  piece  of  poetry.  I  will  read  the. 
first  one — the  President  says  to  read  them  both : 

The  morning  breaks  the  shadows  flee; 

Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled. 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 

Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

The  clouds  of  error  disappear 

Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine; 
The  glory,  bursting  from  afar, 

Wide  o'er  the  nations  soon  will  shine. 

The  Gentile  fulness  now  comes  in, 

And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand; 
Lo!  Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  from  sin. 

Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand. 

Jehovah  speaks!  let  earth  give  ear, 

And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live; 
His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 

His  covenant  people  to  receive. 

Angels  from  heaven,  and  truth  from  earth 
Have  met,  and  both  have  record  borne; 

Thus  Zion's  light  is  bursting  forth, 
To  cheer  her  children's  glad  return. 

i 

This  is  changed  a  little  from  the  original  but  that  does  not  mat- 
ter so  very  much. 

Now  here  is  the  %mn  that  I  was  referring  to: 

Lo!  the  Gentile  chain  is  broken 

Freedom's  banner  waves  on  high; 
List,  ye  nations,  by  this  token 

Know  that  your  redemption's  nigh. 

See  on  yonder  distant  mountain, 

Zion's  standard  wide  unfurled; 
Far  above  Missouri's  fountain, 

Lo,  it  waves  for  all  the  world. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  49 


Freedom,  peace  and  full  salvation 

Are  the  blessings  guaranteed — 
Libe-rty  to  every  nation, 

Every  tongue,  and  every  creed. 

Come,  ye  Christian  sects,  and  pagan, 

Pope  and  Protestant  and  priest; 
Worshipers  of  God  or  Dagon, 

Come  ye  to  fair  freedom's  feast. 

Come,  ye  sons  of  doubt  and  wonder, 

Indian,  Moslem,  Greek  or  Jew; 
All  your  shackles  burst  asunder; 

Freedom's  banner  waves  for  you. 

Cease  to  persecute  each  other, 

Join  the  covenant  of  peace; 
Be  to  all  a  friend,  a  brother; 

This  will  bring  the  world  release. 

Lo!  the  King,  the  great  Messiah, 

Prince  of  Peace  shall  come  to  reign; 
Sound  again,  ye  heavenly  choir, 

Peace  on  earth,  good  will  to  men. 

PREPARATION    FOR   PEACE  NECESSARY. 

The  point  that  I  wish  to  make  is  this :  While  the  numerous 
prophecies  concerning  the  terrible  times  of  tribulation  of  the  latter 
days  are  about  to  be  fulfilled,  and  are  being  fulfilled  now,  yet  there 
should  be  efforts  made  to  bring  about  peace,  if  possible,  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth;  and  it  seems  to  me  that  it  is  the  province,  the 
right,  the  duty  of  Zion  -in  her  beauty  rising,  in  the  mountains,  to  send 
forth  all  the  aid  possible  and  to  lend  a  ready  hand  to  help  bring  about 
peace  on  earth,  good  will  to  men.  Do  you  think,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  when  Christ  shall  come  as  the  King  of  kings,  the  Lord 
of  lords,  that  there  will  be  no  preparation  made  for  that  coming?  Do 
you  think  that  he  will  come  and  by  a  great  ■  cataclysm,  will  turn 
the  warring  nations  into  peaceful,  united  peoples?  Oh,  no.  Some 
one  will  say,  perhaps,  he  is  going  to  utterly  destroy  them.  Don't  you 
believe  it.  When  Christ  comes  there  will  be  people  dwelling  on  the 
earth  who  will  not  perish;  many  of  the  wicked  will  be  destroyed 
"by  the  brightness  of  his  coming,"  but  before  that  a  work  of  prepara- 
tion will  have  to  be  accomplished  and  the  principles  which  belong 
to  our  government  and  which  are  now  being  extended  in  the  efforts 
to  bring  about  peace  will  have  softened  the  hearts  of  nations,  the 
leading  nations  of  the  earth,  so  that  they  will  combine  for  mutual 
help,  and  agree,  instead  of  going  to  war  and  drenching  the  earth 
with  human  blood,  that  they  will  come  together  in  a  fraternal  spirit 
and  settle  their  difficulties  by  arbitration  or  submit  them  to  courts 
of  justice,  which  will  be  provided  for,  so  that  the  rights  of  each  other 
may  be  fully  made  plain  and  clear  to  all  the  world.  That  is  the  ob- 
ject in  view. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  as  a  delegate  in  some  of  the  con- 
gresses for  the  world's  peace  when  I  was  abroad,  particularly  on  my 
last  mission  to  Europe,  a  number  of  the  finest  men  and  women  who 
can  be  met  with  outisde  of  this*  Church,  great  men,  great  women, 
with  great  minds  and  of  great  influence  who  advanced  theories  that 
were  not  practical.  But  they  were  good',  philosophical,  kind  people 
with  splendid  desires.  But  the  first  real  practical  thing  they  tried 
to  bring  about  was  the  disarmament  of  the  great  nations,  that  the 
number  of  their  men  in  armies  and  navies  should  be  diminished,  that 
the  munitions  of  war  should  be  decreased  in  production,  and  the  way 
be  thus  prepared  for  some  kind  of  league  or  union  by  which  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  could  come  together  in  a  solemn  compact  for  the 
purpose  of  bringing  about  peace,  so  far  as  it  could  be  established.  I 
don't  think  there  is  any  ardent  advocate  of  the  measures  now  being 
taken  who  makes  the  contention  that  this  pact,  if  it  should  be  signed, 
will  bring  about  entire  suppression  of  war  or  the  war-like  spirit.  Not 
at  all,  but  if  there  is  anything  practical  that  can  be  done  to  bring 
about  disarmament  among  the  nations  (except  by  agreement  when 
circumstances  may  arise  to  require  arms  and  ammunitions),  any- 
thing that  can  bring  that  about  is  in  the  right  direction.  It  may 
not  accomplish  all  that  its  advocates  expect  it  to  do,  but  it  will  pre- 
pare the  way  for  that  which  eventually  will  come.  The  ideas  will 
thus  be  presented  to  nations  that  have  power  and  influence  in  the 
earth  whereby  they  can  make  agreements  by  which  wars  shall  be 
diminished  and  eventually  abolished,  so  that  the  time  will  come,  also 
predicted  by  the  prophets,  when  "nation  will  not  rise  against  nation 
nor  kingdom  against  kingdom,"  and  they  will  not  even  "learn  war 
any  more,"  but  every  man,  spiritually  speaking,  can  sit  down  "under 
his  vine  and  under  his  fig  tree ;  and  none  shall  make  him  afraid." 

That  time  will  come.  I  am  just  as  sure  of  it  as  I  am  that  the 
sun  will  rise  tomorrow  morning.  I  don't  know  whether  I  will  be 
here  to  see  it,  but  it  will  rise  just  the  same,  no  matter  how  much 
the  clouds  may  come  up,  and  I  am  just  as  sure  that  "the  Sun  of 
righteousness  will  arise  with  healing  in  his  wings,"  as  the  ancient 
prophet  predicted,  and  the  bright  rays  of  his  glory  will  penetrate 
to  the  utmost  parts  of  the  earth,  and  he  will  indeed  be  the  King  of 
glory  and  the  Prince  of  peace. 

WE  ARE   NOT   TO   CEASE  OUR   EFFORTS   AGAINST  EVILS, 
BECAUSE   EVILS  ABOUND. 

But  before  that  day  comes  there  will  be  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars,  and  plague  and  famine,  and  earthquake  and  divers  evils,  as 
we  call  them,  which  will  only  be,  perhaps,  the  beginning  of  greater 
sorrows  yet  to  come.  I  believe  that  these  predictions  will  come  to 
pass,  but  should  that  prevent  all  that  are  lovers  of  their  race  from 
making  any  efforts  to  bring  about  a  different  condition  of  things  ? 
If  the  "flu"  or  any  other  plague  should  go  over  the  land  again,  are 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  51 


we  to  sit  down  and  say,  "Oh,  it  was  predicted,  it  will  come  and  we 
cannot  do  anything  against  it?"  If  iniquity  abounds,  as  Christ  said 
it  would,  and  because  of  it  "the  love  of  many  would  wax  cold,"  is 
that  any  reason  why  we  should  not  take  steps  against  those  iniquities? 
We  are  forming  a  social  society,  many  of  our  brethren  here,  men 
that  are  capable  of  handling  the  subject,  and  the  Lord  knows,  if  he 
doesn't  the  devil  does  that  something  is  needful  to  be  done,  needful 
for  our  young  people,  particularly,  and  those  social  workers  are  busily 
engaged  in  the  good  work,  and  they  will  be  more  busily  engaged  by 
and  by,  when  they  get  a  routine  prepared  and  methods  adopted  by 
which  we  can  reach  the  evil.  Shall  we  cease  from  our  efforts 
against  evil  because  evils  will  abound  and  because  '"evil  men  and 
seducers  will  wax  worse  and  worse,"  as  predicted  by  the  Savior? 
Are  we  not  to  take  steps  to  try  and  check  the  evil  ?  Take  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  That  predicts  wars  and  at  the  same  time  provides  and 
tells  what  shall  be  done.  Read  the  writings  of  Mormon  and  Moroni 
m  the  Book  of  Mormon.  There  is  a  labor  imposed  upon  us,  so  it 
tells.  What  is  it  to  do?  Why,  to  check  these  evils,  to  proclaim 
against  them,  to  unite  together  for  peace  and  for  harmony  and  for, 
brotherly  love,  for  the  prevalence  of  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  So  that  the  words  of  Parley  may  come  to  pass  and  the  heav- 
enly choir  will  sing  again  the  anthem,  "Peace  on  earth,  good  will  to 
men." 

READ  THE  PEACE  PACT  FOR  YOURSELVES. 

Now,  I  want  to  feel  a  good  spirit  toward  my  brethren  who  do 
not  see  it  the  way  I  do,  exactly,  and  I  want  them  to  feel  the  same  way 
towards  me.  I  have  most  profound  convictions  in  regard  to  this 
matter.  I  have  read  the  propositions  for  a  covenant  of  peace  care- 
fully, over  and  over,  and  over  again,  and  I  find  that  nearly  every- 
thing that  some  of  the  great  men  and  statesmen  want  to  put  in  the 
pact  is  there  already,  and  some  things  that  they  want  taken  out  are 
not  there  at  all.  There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  misrepresenta- 
tion concerning  it,  and  another  thing  I  find  to  my  great  regret,  that 
I  have  talked  to  a  large  number  of  our  prominent  men  personally, 
and  they  have  never  read  it  themselves-,  they  have  had  to  go  by  what 
the  proponents  and  the  opponents  have  had  to  say  and  they  are  be- 
wildered about  it.  They  don't  see  and  read  and  understand  for  them- 
selves, as  Jesus  taught  in  his  day,  "Whoso  readeth,  let  him  under- 
stand." And  that  is  something  they  should  do  in  regard  to  this  cov- 
enant, read  the  articles  and  compare  them  and  see  the  bearing  of 
the  different  articles,  one  upon  another.  I  say  here,  that  to  my  mind, 
it  is  one  of  the  grandest  things  ever  presented  to  the  people  of  the 
world.  There  is  nothing  anywhere  to  be  compared  with  it.  Do  I 
say  it  is  perfect?  No,  but  it  provides  means  for  its  perfection,  or 
for  its  correction,  plenty  of  means  provided  for  anything  that  needs 
to  be  put  into  it,  or  anything  that  needs  to  be  taken  out  of  it,  just 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  it  was  with  our  great  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  Now,  I 
did  not  intend  to  talk  directly  on  this  subject  this  afternoon,  but  it 
has  come  to  mind  as  I  have  been  speaking., 

i 

ON  THE  NECESSITY   OF  OBEDIENCE  TO.  LAW. 

Now,  my  brethren,  men  holding  the  Priesthood  of  the  Almighty ! 
This  has  been  sent  down  for  the  salvation  of  mankind,  not  merely 
for  the  honor  of  men  who  are  called  and  ordained  to  the  several 
offices  in  the  Priesthood,  not  merely  for  that,  although  it  is  a  great 
honor  to  be  a  priest  of  the  Most  High,  a  servant  of  the  living  God, 
clothed  upon  with  divine  authority,  for  that  is  what  Priesthood  means, 
divine  authority,  no  matter  whether  a  person  has  but  a  small  part 
of  divine  authority  or  in  its  fulness,  he  has  it,  he  is  definitely  called 
and  ordained  to  certain  duties — what  for?  For  the  salvation  of 
the  world,  of  all  nations,  kindreds  and  tribes  and  tongues.  That  is 
what  that  is  for,  and  for  the  establishment  of  freedom.  The  flag  of 
liberty,  as  Parley  says,  "waves  on  high,"  and  "list  ye  nations,  by  this 
token,  know  that  your  redemption's  nigh!"  The  time  is  coming 
when  the  nations  shall  be  redeemed  from  tyranny  and  oppression  and 
from  seeking  each  other's,  blood,  fighting  for  that  which  they  could 
acquire  by  proper  reason  and  by  reasonable  argument  and  reason- 
able associations  and  courts. 

Now,  my  brethren,  do  you  think  any  of  you  that  may  be  en- 
gaged in  the  order  that  President  Grant  alluded  to  this  morning, 
have  any  right  to  say  to  a  man  that  because  he  does  not  see  as  you 
do,  and  does  not  carry  a  card  showing  that  he  belongs  to  a  certain 
society,  that  he  shall  not  work,  you  will  not  work  with  him ;  if  he 
gets  a  job,  and  people  employ  him,  you  lay  down  your  tools  and  say 
you  will  not  work  with  him?  Is  that  right?  Is  that  reasonable?  Is 
that  Christ-like?  Is  that  brotherly?  Is  it  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  liberty  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and 
the  Declaration  of  Independence?  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
if  our  brethren  holding  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  were  to  combine 
together  for  everything  that  is  good  in  these  societies,  but  will  not 
go  one  step  farther  than  that  which  is  their  right  to  do,  that  they  can 
control  the  situation  and  they  will  also  avoid  the  great  troubles  of 
mob  law.  There  are  projects  now  on  foot — I  have  learned  about 
them — to  make  a  mob  and  go  up  to  the  Legislature  to  try  and  per- 
suade the  law  makers  to  do  or  not  to  do  certain  things.  Will  Latter- 
day  Saints  do  that?  Men  are  elected  to  the  Legisature  to  frame 
laws  for  the  good  of  the  State  and  they  ought  to  be  left  free  to  use 
their  best  judgment.  That  is  what  they  are  elected  for.  But  gath- 
ering mobs  to  try  and  influence  them  is  all  wrong.  The  right  to  peti- 
tion is  proper,  but  there  is  a  proper  way  to  make  petitions  and  we 
ought  to  have  respect  for  those  who  have  been  selected  to  occupy 
places  in  our  government,  and  all  should  be  obedient  to  law.  Look  at 
the  fruits  of  mobocracy  in  Omaha,  alluded  to  by  President  Grant  this 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  S3 


morning.  That  is  only  one  outburst.  If  this  is  allowed  to  go  on 
there  will  be  a  vast  deal  more  trouble  in  the  land.  It  is  a  great 
menace  of  the  latter  times ;  and  I  want  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon  in  regard  to  what  the  Lord  said  many  hundreds 
of  years  ago  in  regard  to  this  very  thing.  You  will  find  it  on  page 
587.  In  ancient  times  on  this  land  there  were  organizations,  "secret 
combinations"  they  are  called.  Now,  I  don't  say  that  what  I  am  going 
to  read  applies  directly  to  a  simple  order  of  labor,  but  it  applies  to 
the  situation  generally,  and  to  what  is  to  come  of  it.  Moroni  is 
writing  on  the  subject  of  that  which  was  found  upon  the  records 
that  he  discovered  from  the  people  that  came  on  the  land  anciently, 
and  it  is  called  the  Book  of  Ether  and  he  is  quoting  from  that  arid 
reasoning  upon  it  and  he  says : 

And  now  I,  Moroni,  do  not  write  the  manner  of  their  oaths,  and  com- 
binations, for  it  hath  been  made  known  unto  me  that  they  are  had  among 
all  people,  and  they  are  had  among  the  Lamanites, 

And  they  have  caused  the  destruction  of  this  people  of  whom  I  am 
now  speaking,  and  also  the  destruction  of  the  people  of  Nephi. 

Now,  page  588 : 

And  whatsoever  nation  shall  uphold  such  secret  combinations,  to  get 
power  and  gain,  until  they  shall  spread  over  the  nation,  behold,  they  shall 
be  destroyed,  for  the  Lord  will  not  suffer  that  the  blood  of  his  Saints, 
which  shall  be  shed  by  them  shall  always  cry  unto  him  from  the  ground 
for  vengeance  upon  them,  and*yet  he  avenge  them  not; 

Wherefore,  O  ye  Gentiles,  it  is  wisdom  in  God  that  these  things 
should  be  shown  unto  you,  that  thereby  ye  may  repent  of  your  sins,  and 
suffer  not  that  these  murderous  combinations  shall  get  above  you,  which 
are  built  up  to  get  power  and  gain,  and  the  work,  yea,  even  the  work  of 
destruction  come  upon  you,  yea,  even  the  sword  of  the  justice  of  the  eternal 
God  shall  fall  upon  you,  to  your  overthrow  and  destruction,  if  ye  shall 
suffer  these  things  to  be; 

Wherefore  the  Lord  commandeth  you,  when  ye  shall  see  these  things 
come  among  you,  that  ye  shall  awake  to  a  sense  of  your  awful  situation, 
because  of  this  secret  combination  which  shall  be  among  you,  or  wo  be 
unto  it,  because  of  the  blood  of  them  who  have  been  slain;  for  they  cry  from 
the  dust  for  vengeance  upon  it,  and  also  upon  those  who  build  it  up. 

For  it  cometh  to  pass  that  whoso  buildeth  it  up,  seeketh  to  overthrow 
the  freedom  of  all  lands,  nations,  and  countries;  and  it  bringeth  to  pass 
the  destruction  of  all  people,  for  it  is  built  up  by  the  devil,  who  is  the 
father  of  all  lies;  even  that  same  liar  who  beguiled  our  first  parents;  yea, 
even  that  same  liar  who  hath  caused  man  to  commit  murder  from  the  be- 
ginning; who  hath  hardened  the  hearts  of  men  that  they  have  murdered 
the  prophets,  and  stoned  them,  and  cast  them  out  from  the  beginning. 

Wherefore,  I,  Moroni,  am  commanded  to  write  these  things,  that  evil 
may  be  done  away,  .and  that  the  time  may  come  that  Satan  may  have  no 
power  upon  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  but  that  they  may  be  per- 
suaded to  do  good  continually,  that  they  may  come  unto  the  fountain  of 
all  righteousness  and  be  saved. 

There  are  glorious  promises  made  in  this  book  to  the  Gentiles, 
"if  they  will  obey  the  God  of  this  land,  which  God  is  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,"  all  on  conditions.  But 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


wars  will  come,  no  doubt;  disputes  will  arise,  but  if  the  efforts  now 
being  made  are  carried  out,  they  will  succeed  in  bringing  people  to- 
gether who  have  good  sense  and  good  judgment,  representing  the 
leading  nations  of  the  world,  who  will  submit  their  difficulties  to 
one  another  and  then  to  arbitration,  or  courts  of  justice,  as  may  be 
necessary,  and  stop  the  shedding  of  blood  and  promote  harmony  and 
peace,  prepare  the  world  by  learning  and  understanding  truth,  by 
understanding  real  freedom  and  the  proper  action  of  nation  with 
nation  until  one  great  brotherhood  is  established  among  the  nations 
and  the  way  will  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord.  We  do 
not  expect  full  peace,  full  justice,  full  glory  and  unity  and  brotherly 
love  until  the  reign  of  Christ  is  established,  but  it  will  come  just  as 
surely  as  the  light  shineth  from  the  East  even  unto  the  West,  so 
shall  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man  be.  Read  the  24th  Chapter  of 
Matthew,  as  revised  and  published  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price — 
T  will  not  take  up  time  to  read  it  now, — there  are  many  passages  of 
old  scripture  that  I  would  like  to  read,  if  there  were  more  time,  but 
I  have  said  enough  on  this  point. 

LET  US  UNITE  AS  ONE. 

Now,  what  I  desire  this  afternoon  in  my  soul  is  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  people  who  have  been  reserved  in  the  eternal  worlds  by 
our  Father  in  Heaven,  until  the  last  days,  to  come  down  on  the  earth 
and  aid  in  the  great  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  which  is  to 
bring  about  the  redemption  of  the  human  family,  living  and  dead, 
will  unite  together  and  be  one. 

Let  Zion  in  her  beauty  rise, 
.   Her  light  begins  to  shine; 
Ere  long  her  King  will  rend  the  skies, 
Majestic  and  divine. 

Let  us  prepare  ourselves  for  the  day,  in  our. hearts,  in  our  spirits, 
in  our  works,  in  our  efforts,  let  us  combine  for  mutual  good  and  for 
the  good  of  the  world,  and  understand  that  the  destiny  of  this  great 
nation,  which  the  Lord  has  raised  up,  is  to  carry  the  gospel  of  free- 
dom, of  liberty,  of  union,  of  brotherly  love  into  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  if  they  will  receive  it,  and  a  great  many  will. 

I  here  bear  testimony  that  my  brethren  standing  in  high  places 
in  the  Church,  through  the  providence  of  God,  are  united  in  this, 
That  we  desire  the  welfare  of  mankind ;  we  desire  that  liberty 
shall  be  extended ;  we  desire  that  bloodshed  shall  be  stayed ;  we  de- 
sire that  war  shall  cease ;  we  desire  that  men  shall  meet  in  a  fraternal 
spirit  to  bring  about  harmony  and  good-will  among  the  nations,  and 
we  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Covenant ;  we  believe  it  is  practi- 
cal, whether  everything  that  is  being  done  is  just  exactly  that  way, 
we  will  leave  to  the  wise  men  among  the  nations.  Some  of  the  very 
best  among  them  are  engaged  in  the  work  to  bring  this  about,  and 
if  anything  appears  to  be  imperfect  that  can  be  corrected  in  due  time. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  55 


PRAYER  FOR  THE  PRESIDENT. 

In  regard  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  the  eloquent 
prayer  for  his  recovery  that  was  offered  by  Brother  Whitney,  found 
an  echo  in  my  soul.  My  heart  went  with  it.  I  met  the  gentleman 
here,  and  I  have  pleasure  in  bearing  witness  to  what  President  Grant 
said  this  morning  concerning  him,  personally,  and  I  do  hope  that  now 
he  is  lying  possibly  on  his  death-bed,  the  wicked  slanders  that  have 
been  sent  abroad,  reported  here  in  Utah,  in  Zion,  concerning  him  will 
cease,  if  for  no  other  reason  than  the  condition  that  he  is  in.  I  have 
the  greatest  assurances  that  .can  be  given  that  those  stories  which 
have  been  circulated  concerning  his  personal  morality  are  not  true. 
I  believe  that  he  is  a  good  man ;  I  believe  that  the  Lord  has  been 
with  him ;  that  he  has  accomplished  a  mighty  work  among  the 
European  nations ;  and  I  believe  that  he  is  sincere  and  that  his  heart 
beats  for  the  good  of  the  whole  world,  and  for  the  good  of  the  United 
States  in  particular,  because  he  is  the  President  thereof. 

Now,  everybody  is  at  perfect  liberty  to  dissent  from  that  idea 
if  they  have  any  reason  for  it,  but  that  is  my  conviction.  I  have 
had  interviews,  associations,  with  men  and  women  in  different  lands 
all  over  the  continent  of  Europe,  and  throughout  the  United  States, 
and  I  know  a  little  something  about  discernment,  and  my  discern- 
ment is  to  the  effect  that  what  Brother  Grant  said  about  Woodrow 
Wilson  this  morning  is  eminently  true  and  right.  May  the  Lord 
bless  him  and  heal  him,  _and  may  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  comes  from 
above,  to  bring  about  peace  and  harmony  and  good  will,  enter  into 
our  souls,  unite  us  together  for  every  effort  that  will  be  for  the  wel- 
fare of  humanity,  and  the  glory  be  to  God,  through  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I.  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  and 
power  of  this  meeting,  and  also  of  our  first  session  that  was  held  this 
morning.  Surely  the  Lord  is  with  his  people  and  with  his  servants, 
and  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  is  upon  them.  Gathered  here  in  this 
house  is  a  great  host  of  people,  mostly  adult  members  of  the  Church. 
In  the  Church  there  are  also  another  great  host,  the  host  that  I  refer 
to  are  the  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  them  among  us 
in  great  numbers.  They  have  been  committed  to  our  care  and  keeping 
by  the  Lord.  We  are  the  children  of  the  Father,  and  our  little  ones  are 
also  his  children.  He  is  the  Father  of  their  spirits,  and  we  are  ^ie 
fathers  and  the  mothers  of  their  bodies.  And  thus  is  the  relationship 
between  us  and  our  heavenly  Father  cleary  defined,  as  also  between 
us  and  our  children — a  relationship  that  is  indeed  very  intimate. 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


man's  duties  to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth. 

When  the  Lord  placed  Adam  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  it  was  found 
that  he  was  alone.  God  saw  that  it  was  not  good  for  man  to  be 
alone ;  therefore,  he  brought  the  woman  to  him  to  be  a  companion  and  a 
helpmeet,  and  he  joined  them  together  in  marriage.  Thus,  marriage 
received  divine  sanction  in  the  very  beginning  of  the  race.  The  Lord 
said  unto  our  first  parents :  "Be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  replenish 
the  earth,  and  subdue  it;  and  have  dominion  over  *  *  *  every 
living  thing."  This  great  commandment  had  reference  to  the  poster- 
ity of  Adam  and  Eve,  which  should  follow.  The  law  was  made  bind- 
ing upon  them ;  and  I  do  not  believe,  that  it  was  contemplated  by  this 
great  commandment  that  conditions  such  as  we  find  in  the  world  at  the 
present  time  should  exist ;  wherein  many  parents  restrict  their  offspring 
to  one  or  two  children.  This  seems  especially  deplorable  in  view  of  the 
fact  that  parents  are  endowed  with  a  God-given  power  of  procreation, 
and  that  it  is  within  their  province  and  ability  to  have  numerous  chil- 
dren. 

God  said,  "Be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  replenish  the  earth."  And 
so  this  law  is  made  binding  upon  men  and  women  in  the  world  through 
the  marriage  relation.  Whenever  this  sacred  covenant  has  been  guarded 
properly  and  observed  among  men,  they  have  been  blessed  and  pros- 
pered. 

It  was  so  in  ancient  Israel.  The  law  respecting  marriage  was  in- 
troduced by  Moses,  the  great  law  giver,  and  was  very  strict.  Those 
who  violated  it  were  subject  to  extreme  penalties.  You  will  remember, 
that  when  the  children  of  Jacob,  or  Israel,  as  he  is  called,  went  down 
into  Egypt,  they  numbered  something  like  seventy  souls  and  when  they 
came  out  of  Egypt,  out  of  bondage  their  number  exceeded  six  hundred 
thousand  souls.  Thus  during  a  period  of  four  hundred  years  the 
children  of  Israel,  while  in  Egypt,  were  greatly  blessed  and  multiplied, 
and  this  blessing  continued  with  them  during  .their  journeys  in  the  wil- 
derness. When  they  came  into  the  land  of  Palejtine  they  were  a 
highly  favored  people.  They  were  blessed,  however,  only  so  long  as 
they  observed  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  so  long  as  they  held 
sacred  the  great  and  glorious  covenant  of  marriage,  but  when  they  de- 
-parted  from  it,  as  they  sometimes  did,  and  drifted  into  evil  ways,  and 
sometimes  into  immorality,  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled  against 
them  and  his  judgments  fell  upon  them.  It  was  so  in  that  time;  it  has 
been  so,  in  all  ages  of  the  world,  and  with  all  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
Great  and  mighty  kingdoms  have  gone  down  to  destruction  and  to  ob- 
livion because  they  broke  the  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage  and  de- 
parted from  the  way  of  virtue.   This  is  a  solemn  thing,  indeed. 

We  can  learn  many  lessons  from  history.  You  will  remember 
what  David,  the  Psalmist,  the  sweet  singer  of  Israel,  said  in  respect 
to  children.  The  words  will  be  found  in  the  one  hundred  twenty-sev- 
enth Psalm : 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON.  57 

CHILDREN  A  PRIZED  GIFT  OF  THE  LORD. 

"Lo,  children  are  an  heritage  of  the  Lord:  and  the  fruit  of  the  womb  is 
his  reward. 

"As  arrows  are  in  the  hand  of  a  mighty  man;  so  are  children  of  the 
youth. 

"Happy  is  the  man  that  hath  his  quiver  full  of  them:  they  shall  not  be 
ashamed,  but  they  shall  speak  with  the  enemies  in  the  gate." 

So,  I  think  we  may  regard  children  as  a  great  and  precious  gift 
from  the  Lord,  a  gift  that  is  much  to  be  prized.  The  Savior  in  his  day 
clearly  defined  the  status  of  children.  People  brought  their  little  ones, 
so  that  they  might  see  the  Savior,  and  that  he  might  touch  them. 
When  this  aroused  the  anger  of  the  disciples,  and  they  rebuked  those 
who  brought  the  children  forward,  the  Savior,  who  was  much  an- 
noyed, said : 

"Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not,  for  of 
such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

Then  he  uttered  this  solemn  warning : 

"Except  ye  become  as  little  children  ye  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven." 

His  language  signified  that  little  children  were  innocent  before 
the  Lord,  and  worthy  of  consideration,  worthy  of  attention  and  notice ; 
and  that  they  must  not  be  passed  by  and  ignored.  This  was,  certainly, 
a  beautiful  example.  So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  these  latter 
times,  Israel  is  under  that  great  law,  the  first  great  commandment 
which  was  given  to  Adam  and  Eve  in  the  Garden  of  Eden. 

A  REMARKABLE  PICTURE. 

It  is  expected  of  us  that  we  should  be  fruitful  and  multiply  and  re- 
plenish the  earth ;  and,  so  far  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  observed 
this  great  and  important  law,  they  have  been  blessed  of  God,  and 
they  have  been  multiplied,  greatly  multiplied,  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion. 
In  every  ward  we  have  many  large  families.  It  is  not  an  uncommon 
thing  to  met  a  woman  who  has  had  ten  or  twelve  or  fourteen  children ; 
and  sometimes  you  will  meet  women  in  the  Church  who  have  had  as 
high  as  eighteen  children.  I.  met  one  such  woman,  and  I  asked  her 
casually  how  many  children  she  had  in  her  family.   She  said : 

"Brother  Clawson,  I  have  had  eighteen  children,  and  most  of 
them  are  living." 

I  said  to  her  : 

"All  honor  to  you.  Surely  you  are  blest  of  the  Lord;  and  I  look 
upon  you  as  a  veritable  queen  among  women." 

Just  the  other  day,  in  attendance  at  one  of  the  quarterly  con- 
ferences— the  conference  of  the  Montpelier  stake — I  was  speaking 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


on  the  subject  of  marriage  and  I  saw  in  the  congregation,  before  me, 
a  woman  with  eleven  children,  all  sitting  together  and  occupying  an  en- 
tire bench  in  that  congregation.  There  was  a  nursing  child  upon  her 
lap,  and  ten  other  children.  She  had  twelve  children,  but  one  was 
dead.  Her  entire  family  of  children  were  with  her  there  in  that  meet- 
ing, and  I  presume  her  husband  would  have  been  with  her  also,  but, 
being  a  railroad  man,  he  could  not  be  excused  from  his  duties.  It  was 
.a  remarkable  picture,  and  I  felt  in  my  heart  to  praise  the  Lord  that 
we  have  such  women  among  us — women  and  men,  too,  of  course,  who 
are  willing  to  honor  the  law  of  marriage,  who  believe  in  it,  who  be- 
lieve in  large  families. 

THE  SAINTS  BELIEVE  IN  LARGE  FAMILIES. 

Our  leaders,  in  the  Church,  believe  in  large  families,  and  that  is 
generally  the  example  that  they  have  set  to  the  people.  President  Brig- 
ham  Young  was  the  father  of  many  children,  very  many;  I  know 
not  how  many,  but  a  host  of  children.  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Lorenzo  Snow,  and  the  late  Joseph  F.  Smith,  all  had  large  families. 
My  own  father,  the  late  Bishop  Hiram  B.  Clawson,  was  the  father  of 
forty-two  children.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  the  father  of 
some  forty-three  or  forty-four  beautiful  children.  I  have  seen  them 
all  in  a  single  group  picture.  It  was  fascinating.  I  could  hardly  take 
my  eyes  from  that  picture.  I  marveled  at  it,  to  see  this  man,  the 
leader  of  the  Church,  the  Prophet  of  God,  sitting  in  the  midst  of  his 
own  family,  composed  of  a  great  host  of  children.  Surely  in  a  time 
to  come  his  seed  will  be  as  the  sands  upon  the  sea-shore,  and  as  the 
stars  in  heaven  for  number.  Blessed  was  he,  and  blessed  were  these 
great  men  of  the  Church,  with  the  large  families  that  God  gave  them. 
They  were  indeed  blessed.  They  honored  the  law  of  marriage,  and  they 
preached  it  to  the  people  all  the  days  of  their  lives. 

And  so  we  also  preach  it.  We  preach  it  today  to  this  people 
and  we  say  to  them :  be  careful  aiid  guard  this  glorious  principle,  and 
honor  it  in  your  lives.  Exercise  these  God-given  powers  of  procreation, 
as  far  as  you  reasonably  can;  and  Latter-day  Saints,  do  not  interfere 
with  the  fountains  of  life,  and  do  not  cut  off  your  posterity  and  restrict 
them.  Do  not  limit  them  to  that  extent  that  your  only  hope  is  hanging 
by  a  thread.    For  this  is  not  pleasing  to  the  Lord. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  IN  LARGE  FAMILIES. 

Then,  oh,  how  great  is  the  responsibility  that  goes  with  these  chil- 
dren, when  they  come  into  our  homes !  Do  you  not  know,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  pure  spirits  of  these  little  children  who  are  among 
us  were  sent  down  from  heaven  to  take  upon  themselves  mortality? 
It  takes  the  body  and  the  spirit  to  constitute  the  soul  of  man.  That 
was  the  blessing  that  you  received  at  your  birth.  That  is  the  blessing 
that  I  received.    I  came  down  upon  this  great  mission,  to  secure  my 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


59 


body ;  and  oh,  how  thankful  I  am,  how  I  rejoice  and  praise  the  Lord 
for  this  precious  gift!  So  we  are  blessed  and  so  our  children  are 
blessed. 

There  is  another  grave  responsibilty,  that  should  not  be  lost  sight 
of,  and  it  is  the  obligation  resting  upon  us  to  teach  and  train  our 
children  in  the  principles  of  eternal  truth,  to  teach  them  everything 
pertaining  to  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  to  train  them  up  in  the  way 
they  should  go ;  because,  as  with  us,  so  with  our  children.  They  must 
learn  to  subdue  and  bring  into  subjection  the  evil  appetites  of  the  body, 
the  unrighteous  desires  of  the  heart,  and  the  sinful  inclinations  that 
spring  out  of  the  heart  through  the  body.  These  things  must  be  con- 
trolled in  order  that  our  chidren  may  grow  up-  without  sin,  if  possible, 
unto  salvation;  and  that  in  the  future  they  may  take  up  these  bodies 
from  the  grave  and  go  on  to  exaltation  and  glory. 

RESPONSIBILITY  RESTS  IN  THE  HOME. 

Now,  let  me  say  briefly  that  the  first  great  obligation,  with  refer- 
ence to  the  children,  rests  with  the  parents  themselves  in  the  home.  It 
is  upon  you,  fathers  in  Israel,  and  it  is  upon  you,  mothers.  The  Church 
has  done  much,  the  Church  is  doing  much,  to  assist  yuu  in  the  work, 
of  training  your  children.  God  has  so  ordered  it  that  we  have  organ- 
izations in  the  Church  which  are  intended  to  give  help  to  parents  in 
the  training  of  their  children ;  but  that  does  not  relieve  the  parents  of 
their  obligations.  We  have  the  Sunday  Schools  with  at  least  one  hun- 
dred twenty-five  thousand  children;  and  we  have  the  young  people's 
organizations.  We  have  the  Primaries  with  twenty-five  or  thirty 
thousand  children ;  and  we  have  the  Religion  Classes  with  about  an 
equal  number.  We  have  the  quorums  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  enroll- 
ing great  hosts  of  boys,  in  the  deacons'  quorums,  in  the  teachers'  quo- 
rums and  in  the  priests'  quorums.  Of  course,  these  boys,  many  of 
them,  belong  also  to  the  Sunday  Schools  and  other  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions. They  are  a  great  army,  these  boys  and  girls,  and  they  must 
have  training  and  education,  they  must  be  instructed,  and  trained  in 
the  principles  of  eternal  truth.  A  great  work  is  being  done  in  these 
splendid  societies  that  were  inspired  of  the  Lord.  Teachers  in  these 
organizations  are  giving  their  time  without  money  and  without  price, 
freely,  for  the  instruction  of  the  children. 

What  are  you  doing,  brethren  and  sisters?  Are  you  sending. your 
children  to  these  places  of  instruction?  Do  you  support  them?  Are 
you  fostering  the  Religion  Class?  Are  you  giving  good  support  to  the 
Primary  organization,  to  the  young  peoples'  societies,  and  to  the  Sun- 
day Schools?  Above  all,  I  repeat  it,  above  all,  are  you  givivng  proper 
instruction  yourselves  to  your  children  in  the  home,  by  precept  and  by 
example?  If  parents  want  their  children  to  be  good  children,  they 
will  have  to  be  good  themselves.  If  they  want  their  children  to  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  they  must  keep  the  word  of  wisdom  themselves. 
If  they  want  their  children  to  be  prayerful,  they  must  also  lead  out 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  pray.  If  they  want  their  children  to  pay  tithing,  then  the  parents 
must  pay  tithing.  It  is  not  sufficient  to  say  to  a  child,  "Go  thou  and 
do  so  and  so,"  because  more  than  likely  the  child  will  not  go.  But  if 
the  parents  say,  "Come  now,  with  me,  and  do  so  and  so,"  the  child 
will  go  with  the  parent. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  felt  in  these  few  words  today 
to  emphasize  the  grave  responsibility  which  is  resting  upon  us  with  ref- 
erence to  our  children ;  and,  let  me  say,  in  addition,  we  should  guard 
our  children  against  evil  companionship  and  evil  doing,  against  the 
immoralities  of  the  world  today,  which  are  very  great. 

Do  you  always  know,  parents,  where  your  children  are?  If  you 
are  at  home  in  the  evening,  and  they  are  away,  do  you  know  where  they 
are?  That  is  the  question.  Do  you  know  what  company  they  keep? 
Do  you  know  what  hours  they  keep?  If  you  would  bring  them  up 
properly  you  must  know  these  things ;  you  must  be  posted ;  you  must 
keep  your  eye  upon  the  children,  because  many  of  them  are  weak, 
and  all  of  them  are  inexperienced.  They  are  beset  by  temptations,  and 
they  need  your  counsel  and  your  aid. 

Woe  unto  that  man,  or  woe  unto  that  woman  who  despises  little 
children,  who  passes  them  coldly  by,  who  ignores  them,  and  who  has  no 
thought  or  love  for  them,  because  these  little  ones  are  the  gift  of  God 
unto  man,  precious  immortal  souls.  Let  us  remember  this,  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  let  us  give  the  children  that  care  and  attention  that  are  es- 
sential to  their  welfare  and  salvation,  which  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

It  is  three  and  one-half  years  since  I  last  had  the  opportunity  of 
attending  a  general  conference  of  the  Church,  and  I  assure  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  opportunity  affords  me  much  genuine 
pleasure.  I  have  been  delighted  with  the  privilege  of  meeting  so  many 
of  the  brethren  and  sisters  with  whom  I  have  had  a  personal  acquaint- 
ance, and  I  regret  that  I  am  unable  to  entertain  in  my  own  home,  at 
conference  time,  those  of  whose  hospitality  I  have  partaken  while 
visiting  the  stakes  in  Zion. 

THE  SITUATION  IN  THE  BRITISH  MISSION 

As  most  of  you  are  aware,  I  have  but  recently  returned  from 
England,  Liverpool  being  the  headquarters  of  the  European  mission 
over  which  I  had  the  honor  of  presiding  while  there.  Since  my  re- 
turn, many  people  native  of  Great  Britain,  and  elders  who  have  lab- 
ored there,  have  enquired  of  me  as  to  the  conditions  of  the  people  and 
of  the  work  in  that  mission.  No  doubt  but  there  are  others  to  whom  a 
brief  recital  of  conditions  over  there  will  be  of  interest.  Before  the 
war  there  were  from  three  to  four  hundred  missionaries  from  Zion 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


61 


laboring  in  the  British  Mission.  But  few  local  brethren  were  used 
as  branch  presidents  and  none  as  conference  presidents,  nor  as  travel- 
ing elders.  A  prohibition  by  the  British  Government  having  been 
placed  upon  aliens  entering  the  county,  it  became  impossible  to  keep 
up  the  former  memebrs.  No  missionaries  arrived  in  Great  Britain 
between  December,  1916,  and  Mar.  31,  1919,  and  our  force  of  elders 
from  home  was  reduced  to  seven  in  June  of  the  present  year,  when 
we  received  ten  others.  This,  however,  did  not  represent  our  entire 
missionary  force,  for  we  had  called  into  the  service  a  .number  of  local 
brethren  and  sisters  who  did  yeoman  service  for  the  Lord,  which 
labor  also  proved  a  great  blessing  unto  those  who  were  thus  employed. 
When  I  left  Liverpool,  last  July,  we  had  twenty-three  local  brethren, 
laboring  as  traveling  elders  and  in  the  neighborhood  of  three  hun- 
dred seventy-five  local  lady  missionaries  laboring  in  the  British  mis- 
sion. All  of  the  seventy-five  branches,  and  ten  of  the  thirteen  con- 
ferences were  presided  over  by  the  local  elders.  The  tithes  of  the 
mission  increased  materially  each  year  while  I  was  there  and  during 
that  period  almost  doubled  in  amount.  The  number  of  con- 
versions to  the  Gospel  also  kept  up  well ;  in  fact,  during  the  year,  1917 
we  had  more  baptisms  in  Great  Britain  than  during  either  1916  or 
1915,  when  there  was  a  considerably  larger  number  of  elders  em- 
ployed. There  is  scarcely  anything  connected  with  the  church  that 
stimulates  the  faith  of  the  elders  so  much  as  to  give  them;  responsibil- 
ity. Activity  in  the  cause  inspires  love  for,  and  interest  in  it.  I  have 
proven  to  my  satisfaction  that  when  we  work  for  the  Lord  we  love 
,  him  more,  and  as  we  love  him  more,  we  have  more  desire  to  work  for, 
and  serve  him.  It  works  both  ways.  It  is  equally  true  that  if  we  have 
no  appreciation  of  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us  and  what  he  de- 
signs to  do  for  us,  we  will  not  have  much  affection  for  him,  and  if  we 
do  not  love  him  we  will  not  give  to  him  much  valuable  service.  Love 
and  service  to  God  and  man  are  necessary  qualifications  in  order  to 
obtain  eternal  life,  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man. 

We  have  proven  that  the  British  Mission  is  self-sustaining  as 
well  in  its  working  arrangement  as  in  its  finances.  The  work  can 
be  carried  on  by  the  local  brethren  and  sisters  if  we  be  not  permitted 
to  send  missionaries  from  Zion.  What  I  have  said  with  reference  to 
the  British  Mission  is  measurably  true  in  regard  to  all  the  European 
missions. 

THE  GREAT  WAR. 

The  great  European  war  had  been  in  progress  two  years  before 
I  arrived  in  England.  During  my  stay  in  that  land,  I  saw  it  ended 
by  the  signing  of  the  armistice.  I  was  there  also  during  the  sitting  of 
the  Peace  Congress.  We  had  a  varied  experience  and  had  feelings 
of  great  anxiety  over  there  as  you  had  here,  and  perhaps  we  had  occa- 
sion for  being  more  anxious.    We  were  nearer  the  war  zone.  <  The 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


wounded  were  brought  home  to  us  in  England  by  the  train  loads.  All 
the  hospitals  were  filled  and  school  buildings  and  private  residences 
were  converted  into  hospitals  and  filled  to  their  capacity.  It  was 
evidenced  on  every  hand  that  a  terribly  destructive  war  was  being 
waged  in  close  proximity  to  us.  The  daily  news  paper  reports  of  the 
sinking  of  ships  by  the  enemy  and  the  frequent  raids  made  upon  the 
coast  cities  of  England  by  zeppelins  and  other  enemy  air  craft  and 
by  the  German  war  ships  were  all  calculated  to  unnefve  the  people 
and  cause  them  to  realize  the  horrors  of  it  all.  I  think,  too,  that  the 
newspapers  did  not  reveal  all  the  damage  done  to  life  and  property 
in  England.  There  was  a  significant  purpose  in  keeping  it  camou- 
flaged. I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  say  that  through  all  these  exper- 
iences there  were  but  few  casualties  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
were  constantly  praying  for  the  protection  of  the  elders  and  the 
Saints  at  home  as  well  as  for  those  who  had  gone  to  the  front  and 
we  acknowledged  the  protecting  care  of  God  which  was  over  them. 

It  was  necessary  for  most  of  our  elders  to  return  home  during  the 
war  period  which  was  extremely  dangerous  as  the  enemy  submarines 
were  lying  in  wait  for  them.  Mines  laid  by  the  enemy  were  also  a 
constant  menace.  All  ships  were  obliged  to  travel  without  lights  at 
night  and  as  a  consequence  many  collisions  occurred  and  some  sink- 
ings. A  ship  on  which  some  of  our  elders  had  embarked  was  run 
into  and  damaged  so  that  she  had  to  return  to  harbor  for  repairs. 
These  things  caused  us  great  anxiety  but,  thank  the  Lord,  none  of  our 
elders  lost  their  lives  from  such  causes.  I  tried  to  live  near  to  the 
Lord  so  as  to  receive  inspiration  from  him  to  direct  the  affairs  of 
the  mission  and  that  his  protection  might  be  over  us  and  I  encouraged 
the  Saints  to  do  likewise  and  we  feel  that  our  prayers  and  labors 
were  not  in  vain. 

THE  UTAH  AND  IDAHO  SOLDIERS  IN  ENGLAND. 

Many  of  the  United  States  soldiers  came  through  Liverpool  en- 
route  to  France.  A  rest  camp  was  established  at  Knotty  Ash,  on  the 
outskirts  of  Liverpool  where  there  were  almost  constantly  great  num- 
bers of  American  soldiers.  Some  of  our  "Mormon"  boys  were  billeted 
there  for  weeks.  We  had  the  pleasure  of  a  visit  at  Mission  head- 
quarters from  Brigadier-General  Richard  W.  Young,  Chaplains  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts  and  Calvin  S.  Smith  and  many  others.  Chaplains 
Roberts  and  Smith  addressed  the  Saints  in  Liverpool.  Some  of  our 
soldier  boys  stationed  at  London  rendered  valuable  missionary  assist- 
ance. We  were  able  to  help  some  of  our  boys  while  they  were  in 
France  by  providing  them  with  garments,  such  clothing  as  could  not 
be  obtained  elsewhere  in  that  country.  Some  of  the  boys  had  the 
spirit  of  missionary  work  having  previously  had  that  kind  of  exper- 
ience. We  supplied  them  with  literature  for  distribution  and  very 
much  gpod  and  some  conversions  were  accomplished  in  that  way. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


63 


BURYING  GROUND  OF  AMERICAN  SOLDIERS. 

Before  leaving  for  home,  accompanied  by  Sister  Richards,  Elder 
Arnold  G.  Holland  of  Rexburg  and  Albert  Smith,  son  of  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  I  went  out  to  Ellerton  cemetery  on  the  out- 
skirts of  Liverpool  where  six  hundred  forty  American  soldiers  were 
buried,  they  having  died  from  the  influenza  and  other  causes,  and  by 
permission  -of  the  care  taker  dedicated  those  graves.  The  section  of 
the  cemetery  used  for  these  burials  is  apart  from  the  main  burial 
ground  and  is  a  beautiful  place.  The  graves  are  made  in  systematic 
order  and  the  name  and  number  of  each  person  buried  there  are 
plainly  indicated  by  lettering  and  numbering  on  a  cross  made  of  2  x 
4  hardwood  standing  about  two  and  a  half  feet  above  ground.  A 
register  is  also  kept  in  the  sexton's  office.  This  information  should 
be  of  special  interest  to  those  having  friends  or  relatives  buried  there. 
The  influenza  plague  afflicted  the  people  there  as  it  did  the  people  in 
this  country  causing  wide-spread  fatality  among  soldiers  and  civil- 
ians, the  strong  and  fit  seeming  to  be  special  objects  for  its  attack. 

THE  HAND  OF  GOD  IN  THE  VICTORY  FOR  THE  ALLIES. 

While  the  war  was  in  progress  we  were  naturally  anxious  and 
were  praying  that  the  Lord  would  give  the  victory  to  the  Allies,  with 
the  United  States  associated,  believing  that  they  were  in  the  right. 
When  the  war  did  come  to  an  end  with  the  signing  of  the  armistice 
we  believed  that  God  had  given  us  the  victory  that  militarism  might 
be  crushed  and  that  those  glorious  principles  vouchsafed  to  us 
through  the  Declaration  of  Independence  and  the  Constitution  of  this 
great  country  might  be  established  in  the  countries  of  Europe.  I 
think  I  would  be  doing  less  than  my  duty  if  I  did  not  acknowledge 
the  hand  qf  the  Lord  in  this  victory  and  did  not  praise  and  thank  him 
with  all  my  soul  for  this  deliverance. 

I  believe  that  the  field  of  God's  activity  is  not  confined  to  his 
Church,  and  that  inspirations  from  him  is  not  limited  to  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church  or  its  membership.  There  are  millions  of  our 
Father's  children  in  other  countries,  whom  he  loves  and  in  whose  wel- 
fare here  and  hereafter  he  has  deep  interest.  He  desires  that  this  gos- 
pel of  the  Kingdom  shall  be  preached  to  them  as  it  has  been  preached 
to  us  and  to  our  fathers. 

GOSPEL  DOOR  TO  THE  NATIONS  WILL  BE  OPENED  AS  RESULT  OF  THE  WAR. 

It  is  my  firm  belief  that  as  a  result  of  the  war  and  the  victory 
to  the  Allies  that  the  doors  of  nations  hitherto  closed  against  us  to 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  will  be  opened  and  that  we  will  be  per- 
mitted to  enter  into  those  new  fields  and  into  fields  which  have  been 
restricted  in  the  past,  and  preach  the  everlasting  gospel.  This  will 
help  compensate  for  the  loss  sustained. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


While  the  Peace  Congress  was  in  session  we  were  praying  in 
secret  and  in  public  that  the  members  of  that  body  might  be  inspired 
to  produce  a  treaty  which  would  be  just  to  all  the  nations,  one  which 
would  be  acceptable  to  all.  We  were  also  praying  that  some  provis- 
ion might  be  made  by  which  such  wars  might  forever  be  prevented. 
When  that  important  body  of  men,  after  months  of  careful,  prayer- 
ful deliberation  brought  forth  the  Peace  Treaty  including  the  League 
of  Nations  Covenants,  I  believed  that  God  had  been  instrumental  in 
its  accomplishment.  Why  should  we  not  expect  answer  to  our  prayers 
and  theirs? 

THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS,  GOD'S  WAY  TO  PEACE. 

I  returned  from  my  mission  on  the  25th  of  July  and  on  the  27th 
spoke  from  this  stand.  Without  any  previous  intention  of  mention- 
ing the  League  of  Nations,  and  not  knowing  that  in  this  country  there 
was  strong  oppositions  to  the  League  Covenant,  I  stated  as  my  be- 
lief that  President  Woodrow  Wilson  is  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  his 
time,  and  that  in  his  work  pertaining  to  the  war  and  peace  that  he 
had  been  inspired  of  the  Lord.  Nothing  I  have  read  or  heard  from 
the  opponents  to  the  League  Covenant  has  caused  me  to  change  my 
mind.  I  am  glad  to  know  that  my  attitude  towards  this  the  most  im- 
portant question  under  consideration  by  the  nations  at  this  time,  is 
in  harmony  with  that  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  with 
the  views  of  the  President  of  the  Church. 

The  constitution  of  the  United  States,  though  established  by  the 
Lord,  through  wise  men  whom  he  raised  up  for  that  purpose,  was  not 
perfect  and  later  had  to  be  amended.  It,  too,  was  opposed  by  men 
who  were  considered  wise,  but  the  greater  wisdom  prevailed.  The 
League  Covenant  may  not  be  perfect  but  I  believe  that  it  is  the  pro- 
duct of  wisdom  and  of  inspiration,  the  same  as  was  the  constitution 
of  this  country,  and  that  the  Lord  will  see  it  through,  also  that  it  will 
be  effective  in  preventing  wars  between  the  nations  which  are  con- 
ceded to  be  the  most  calamitous. 

I  believe  that  had  there  been  a  League  of  Nations  such  as  the  one 
now  offered,  when  Germany  launched  this  war,  it  never  would  have 
been  accomplished  and  the  world  would  have  been  saved  all  the  loss  of 
life  and  property  and  the  broken  hearts  the  war  entailed.  Think  of  it, 
my  brethren  and  sisters — seven  and  one  half  millions  of  people  killed 
on  the  battle  field.  It  would  require  seven  hundred  fifty  tabernacles 
of  the  capacity  of  this  one,  ten  thousand,  to  hold  that  number.  A 
destruction  of  one  hundred  eighty-six  billions  of  the  world's  wealth 
can  only  be  comprehended  by  those  who  have  been  accustomed  to  con- 
sidering enormous  sums  of  money.  Do  we  want  a  repetition  of  such 
catastrophe?  Something  is  in  need  of  being  done  to  prevent  it.  A 
League  of  Nations  as  a  part  of  the  Peace  Treaty  is  the  only  thing 
offered.  Even  the  opponents  to  the  League  offer  no  substitute.  It  is 
a  case  of  negativing  that  which  is  offered  as  the  best  and  only  solu- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS.  65 


tion  of  a  much  perplexed  question.  The  cause  of  the  proposed 
League  of  Nations  like  that  of  "Mormonism,"  is  a  positive  one.  Its 
opponents  are  negative.  We  say  that  the  League  can  be  used  to  pre- 
vent wars  between  nations ;  they  say  it  will  fail  of  its  purpose,  and  are 
trying  to  make  their  predictions  come  true.  We  say,  let  us  give  it  a 
trial ;  they  say  no,  it  is  useless  to  do  so.  There  was  a  certain  wise  man 
in  the  days  of  the  primitive  church,  educated  at  the  feet  of  the  great 
Gamaliel.  He  was  a  persecutor  of  the  Saints,  but  through  the 
special  providence  of  God  he  was  made  to  see  his  mistake.  Accord- 
ing to  his  own  testimony  he  had  acted  conscientiously.  We  can  afford 
to  give  those  who  oppose  the  League  credit  for  being  conscientious, 
and  we  should  ask  ourselves :  Is  it  not  possible  that  I  am  mistaken 
in  this  matter? 

I  have  asked  myself  that  question  and  have  analyzed  my  position 
the  best  I  could  but  have  not  been  able  to  arrive  at  any  other  con- 
clusion than  that  in  this  thing  I  am  right.  I  have  been  used  to  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  oi  God  and  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  I  have 
inspiration  upon  this  subject;  that  it  is  God's  way  of  helping,  to  es- 
tablish peace  and  good  will  on  earth,  and  I  am  not  sure  but  that  a 
fight  against  the  League  of  Nations,  as  it  has  been  presented  to  the 
Senate  of  the  United  States  for  ratification  is  a  fight  against  God. 
May  he  deliver  us,  I  pray,  and  guide  us  aright  in  all  things.  '  May 
he  inspire  the  members  of  the  United  States  Senate  who  have  the 
responsibility  of  ratifying  the  Treaty,  including  the  Covenant  -of  the 
League  of  Nations,  as  he  inspired  our  fathers  in  the  forming  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  Surely  the  interests  of  many  na- 
tions surpass  the  interests  of  one.  God  remembered  the  needs  of 
this  nation  in  times  of  great  peril,  and  I  believe  that  he  will  not  be 
unmindful  of  us  now,  and  of  those  who  fought  with  us  for  such  great 
and  glorious  principles,  and  of  the  other  nations,  for  they  are  as  much 
in  need  of  his  divine  providence  as  we.  May  the  Lord  add  his  bless- 
ing, I  pray,  in  the  name  o£  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations,  now  look  up; 
It  waves  to  all  the  world; 
In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land —  " 
On  Zion's  mount  behold  it  stand! 

For  God  remembers  still 

His  promise  made  of  old, 
That  He  on  Zion's  hill 

Truth's  standard  would  unfold! 
Her  light  should  there  attract  the  'caze 
Of  all  the  world  in  latter  days. 


His  house  shall  there  be  reared 
His  glory  to  display; 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  people  shall  be  heard 
In  distant  lands  to  say, 
We'll  now  go  up  and  serve  the  Lord, 
Obey  His  truth,  and  learn  His  word. 

For  there  we  shall  be  taught 
The  law  that  will  go  forth, 
With  truth  and  wisdom  fraught 
To  govern  all  the  earth; 
Forever  there  His  ways  we'll  tread, 
And  save  ourselves  with  all  our  dead. 

Then  hail  to  Deseret! 

A  refuge  for  the  good,  ' 
And  safety  for  the  great, 
If  they  but  understood 
That  God  with  plagues  will  shake  the  world 
Till  all  its  thrones  shall  down  be  hurled. 

In  Deseret  doth  truth 

Rear  up  its  royal  head;* 
Though  nations  may  oppose, 
Still  wider  it  shall  spread; 
Yes,  truth  and  justice,  love  and  grace, 
In  Deseret  find  ample  place. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday  morning,  10  o'clock. 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  David  R.  Langlois, 
President  of  the  Burley  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday,  October  4,  1919,  at  10  a.  m. 
The  congregation  was  called  to  order  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 

O  say,  what  is  Truth?  'Tis  the  fairest  gem 

That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce; 
And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be,  when 
The  proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem 

Is  counted  but  dross  and  refuse. 

Yes,  say,  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire: 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies; 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 


The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp, 

When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes, 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last, 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast 

And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes. 

Then,  say,  what  is  truth?   'Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er: 
Though  the  heavens  depart,  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst. 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Don  B.  Colton,  President  of  the 
Uintah  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn : 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent  word! 

^VVhat  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He  hath  said, 

*You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled? 

In  every  condition,  in  sickness,  in  health, 
In  poverty's  vale  or  abounding  in  wealth, 
At  home  or  abroad,  on  the  land  or  the  sea, 
As  thy  days  may  demand,  so  thy  succor  shall  be. 

Fear  not,  I  am  with  thee,  O,  be  not  dismayed, 

For  I  am  thy  God,  and  will  still  give  thee  aid; 

I'll  strengthen  thee,  help  thee,  and  cause  thee  to  stand, 

Upheld  by  my  righteous,  omnipotent  hand. 

IWhen  through  the  deep  waters  I  call  thee  to  go, 
The  rivers  of  sorrow  shall  not  thee  o'er-flow, 
For  I  will  be  with  thee,  thy  troubles  to  bless, 
And  sanctify  to  thee  thy  deepest  distress. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

When  through  fiery  trials  thy  pathway  shall  lie, 
My  grace,  all  sufficient,  shall  be  thy  supply. 
The  flame  shall  not  hurt  thee,  I  only  design 
Thy  dross  to  consume  and  thy  gold  to  refine. 

E'en  down  to  old  age,  all  My  people  shall  prove 
My  sov'reign,  eternal,  unchangeable  love; 
And  then,  when  gray  hair  shall  their  temples  adorn, 
Like  lambs  shall  they  still  in  my  bosom  be  borne. 

The  soul  that  on  Jesus  hath  leaned  for  repose 

I  will  not,  I  cannot,  desert  to  his  foes; 

That  soul,  though  all  hell  should  endeavor  to  shake, 

I'll  never,  no  never,  no  never  forsake! 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

I  hope  we  shall  all  be  able  to  remember  the  many  good  things 
that  have  been  spoken  during  the  previous  sessions  of  this  Conference. 
It  is  not  what  we  eat,  but  what  we  digest,  that  makes  us  strong.  It  is 
not  what  we  hear  that  makes  us  learned,  that  fills  us  with  knowledge, 
which  is  power ;  it  is  what  we  remember  and  profit  by  and  make  a  wise 
use  of.  Attention  is  the  mother  of  memory.  So  my  old  teacher,  Doctor 
Park,  used  to  say ;  and  I  have  demonstrated  the  truth  of  his  teaching. 
It  is  wonderful  what  the  memory  will  do,  if  it  be  trained  and  given 
a  chance. 

A  PHENOMENAL  MEMORY. 
« 

I  heard  a  story  of  a  colored  gentleman  who  possessed  a  phenomenal 
memory.  He  was  the  keeper  of  the  cloak  room  at  a  fashionable  hotel, 
and  his  memory  served  him  so  faithfully,  that  he  was  not  under  the 
necessity  of  using  checks  when  the  guests  left  with  him  their  hats 
or  coats  or  canes.  When  they  returned  for  them,  he  never  failed  to 
give  each  man  his  own.  A  certain  judge  went  to  that  hotel  for  the  spe- 
cial purpose  of  testing  this  man's  marvelous  memory.  He  gave  him 
his  hat — a  hundred  others  did  likewise — and  passed  into  the  dining 
room.  Returning  in  about  an  hour,  sure  enough,  he  got  the  right  hat 
back  again.  "Well,'  he  exclaimed,  "that  is  remarkable.  How  did  you 
know  that  was  my  hat?"  "I  don't  know  that  that  is  your  hat,  judge," 
said  the  keeper.  "Well,  why  did  you  give  it  to  me,  then?"  "Because 
you  gave  it  to  me."  (Laughter.) 

THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS. 

I  am  in  hearty  accord  with  the  inspired  teachings  of  my  brethren. 
I  haven't  a  great  deal  to  say  on  the  subject  of  the  League  of  Nations; 
but  I  can  say  that  I  am  heartily  in  favor  of  it.  I  believe  in  the  League 
and  in  the  Peace  Treaty,  not  because  it  is  a  perfect  proposition — I  do 
not  regard  it  as  the  key  to  God's  kingdom,  nor  as  the  gateway  to  the 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


69 


glorious  Millennium ;  but  it  looks  to  me  like  a  good  piece  of  pavement 
reaching  in  that  direction,  and  I  propose  to  step  up  out  of  the  mud  and 
walk  on  the  pavement  so  far  as  it  goes  and  as  long  as  it  lasts. 

"THE  SHOULDERS  OF  THE  PHILISTINES." 

President  Grant  told  us  yesterday  that  President  Woodruff's  fa- 
vorite hymn  was  the  one  beginning :  "God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 
his  wonders  to  perform."  God  does  so  move ;  but  he  does  not  al- 
ways bring  to  pass  his  purposes  by  means  of  miracles  or  through  the 
instrumentality  of  his  chosen  people.  Seven  hundred  years  before  the 
birth  of  the  Savior,  the  Prophet  Isaiah,  looking  down  the  vista  of  time, 
saw  the  Latter-day  gathering  of  the  scattered  House  of  Israel, 
and  said  concerning  them:  "They  shall  fly  upon  the  shoulders  of 
the  Philistines  toward  the  West."  We  recognize  the  fulfilment  of  that 
prophecy  in  the  founding  of  this  Church  by  Joseph  Smith,  a  lineal  de- 
scendant of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  who  thus  lifted  the  Ensign  for 
the  gathering  of  their  descendants  from  their  long  dispersion  among 
the  nations.  But  a  part  of  the  fulfilment  rests  with  the  Gentiles.  Their 
steamships,  their  railroads,  their  means  of  rapid  transit  and  communi- 
cation— these  are  "the  shoulders  of  the  Philistines,"  upon  which  the 
children  of  Ephraim  have  been  and  are  being  brought  to  the  West, 
to  the  land  of  Zion,  where  the  New  Jerusalem  is  to  rise,  where  the 
pure  in  heart  will  assemble,  and  the  necessary  preparation  be  made 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord  in  his  glory.  God  works  outside  as  well 
as  inside  his  Church,  and  uses  big  things  and  little  things  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  his  purposes. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  LITTLE  THINGS. 

We  must  not  despise  the  small  things,  for  they  are  often  the  seeds 
of  great  things.  Flake  on  flake  piles  up  the  mighty  avalanche,  and  the 
stir  of  a  stone  on  the  mountain-side  hurls  the  whelming  mass  into  the 
valley  below. 

We  must  not  expect  miracles  unless  the  occasion  demands  them. 
God  is  a  wise  economist.  He  would  not  take  a  bludgeon  to  brain  a 
gnat,  nor  a  thunder-bolt  to  kill  a  flee.  He  always  suits  the  weapon  to 
the  warfare,  the  tool  to  the  task  required  of  it ;  and  he  is  the  God  of 
the  whole  world,  the  God  of  the  big  and  the  little,  the  high  and  the 
low.  He  is  over  all  things,  and  neither  man  nor  Satan,  with  all  their 
free  agency,  can  by  any  possibility  thwart  the  Divine  Will. 

napoleon's  overthrow. 

The  other  evening,  while  pondering  some  of  these  thoughts,  -I 
picked  up,  not  for  the  first  time,  Victor  Hugo's  famous  master-work, 
"Les  Miserables,"  in  which  is  given  a  wonderful  description  of  the 
Battle  of  Waterloo,  where  Napoleon,  the  conqueror  of  the  world,  was 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


overthrown  by  the  combined  English  and  Prussian  armies,  in  the  month 
of  June,  1815.  Concerning  that  great  and  decisive  struggle,  Hugo 
says : 

"If  it  had  not  rained  in  the  night  between  the  17th  and  the  18th  of 
June,  1815,  the  fate  of  Europe  would  have  been  different.  A  few 
drops  of  water,  more  or  less,  decided  the  downfall  of  Napoleon.  All 
that  Providence  required  in  order  to  make  Waterloo  the  end  of  Auster- 
litz  was  a  little  more  rain,  and  a  cloud  traversing:  the  sky  out  of  season 
sufficed  to  make  a  world  crumble.  *  *  *  The  Battle  of  Waterloo 
could  not  be  begun  until  half-past  eleven  o'clock,  and  that  gave  Blucher 
time  to  come  up.  Why  ?  Because  the  ground  was  wet.  The  artillery 
had  to  wait  until  it  became  a  little  firmer  before  they  could  manoeuvre." 

Yes,  it  is  a  historical  fact  that  Napoleon,  the  greatest  artillery- 
man of  the  ages,  had  more  cannon  on  the  field  of  Waterloo  than  did 
Wellington  or  Blucher — but  he  could  not  use  them.  Our  author  con- 
tinues : 

"Suppose  the  soil  dry,  and  the  artillery  capable  of  moving,  the 
action  would  have  begun  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning.  The  battle 
would  have  been  won  and  ended  at  two  o'clock,  three  hours  before  the 
change  of  fortune  in  favor  of  the  Prussians."  He  adds,  sententiously, 
that  it  was  not  Wellington ;  it  was  not  Blucher — it  was  God  who  over- 
threw Napoleon! 

HOW  FAMINE  COULD  COME. 

I  believe  in  the  doctrine.  I  have  seen,  during  the  past  summer, 
while  traveling  to  and  from  a  number  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  north, 
south,  east  and  west — I  have  seen  the  whole  land  parching  and  burn- 
ing under  the  torrid  rays  of  the  sun — no  rain,  no  moisture,  and  the 
farmers,  discouraged,  all  their  labor  in  vain,  talking  of  "pulling  up" 
and  moving  away.  An  extraordinary  season  it  has  been,  the  dryness, 
the  drought,  beyond  anything  of  the  kind  I  have  ever  witnessed ;  and 
I  was  born  right  here  in  Salt  Lake  Valley  where  drought  is  not  un- 
common. I  have  thought  how  easy  it  would  be  for  God  to  bring  a 
famine  upon  the  land,  simply  by  withholding  the  rains  of  heaven — the 
"few  drops  of  water"  that  overthrew  Napoleon  by  coming  down,  and 
could  so  easily  destroy  the  world  if  they  were  kept  back. 

god's  promises  and  prophecies  conditional. 

All  God's  promises  and  prophecies  are  conditional.  "Who  am 
I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have  promised  and  have  not  fulfilled?  I 
command,  and  a  man  obeys  not;  I  revoke,  and  they  receive  not  the 
blessing."  There  never  was  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  when 
a  nation  against  which  a  divine  prophecy,  a  proohecv  of  disaster,  had 
been  uttered,  could  not  obtain  a  revocation  of  the  edict,  if  thev  were 
willing  to  pursue  the  course  that  God  desired  them  to  take.    He  sent 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY.  ,71 


Jonah  to  Nineveh,  to  tell  them  that  within  forty  days  that  great  city 
should  be  destroyed ;  but  Nineveh  repented,  and  God  revoked  his 
decree.  The  judgment  passed  over,  but  it  would  surely  have  come  if 
the  king  and  nobles  and  people  had  not  humbled  themselves  and  done 
the  thing  that  was  required  of  them.  There  is  always  an  alternative — ■ 
no  "dead-open-and-shut" .  business  about  God's  dealings  with  men. 
He  gives  them  a  chance. 

JOSEPH  SMITH  AND  THE  CIVIL  WAR. 

Joseph  Smith  predicted  the  war  between  the  Northern  and  the 
Southern  States — told  where  it  would  begin,  and  named  the  question 
over  which  it  would  arise.  It  was  on  Christmas  Day,  1832,  that  he 
foretold  that  great  conflict,  and  twenty-eight  years  and  some  months 
later  it  began,  the  first  gun  being  fired  on  Fort  Sumter,  April  12,  1861. 
Seventeen  years  before  the  war  broke  out,  the  Prophet  made  an  effort 
to  avert  the  awful  calamity  that  he  saw  impending  over  his  country. 
Was  it  inconsistent  of  him  to  do  so — to  utter  a  prediction  and  then 
work  to  prevent  its  fulfilment?.  No, — that  is  not  the  way  to  look  at 
it.  He  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  he  knew  that  the  nation  was  en- 
titled to  an  alternative.  We  hear  it  said,  when  a  man  dies :  "It  was 
his  time  to  die."  And  so  it  was — it  must  have  been,  or  he  would  not 
have  died.  But  a  man's  time»can  change,  according  to  the  course  taken 
by  him.  If  he  does  what  God  requires,  what  he  was  sent  into  the 
world  to  do,  there  is  no  reason  why  he  should  not  remain  to  fully  ac- 
complish the  purpose  of  his  mortal  creation.  But  if  he  is  unwise,  and 
dissipates  his  strength ;  if  he  does  wrong  and  weakens  his  powers,  then 
he  shortens  his  life  and  his  time  to  die  comes  earlier. 

Joseph  Smith  made  an  earnest  effort  to  ward  off  the  very  cal- 
amity that  he  had  predicted.  And  how  did  he  propose  to  do  this? 
Early  in  1844,  a  few  months  before  his  martyrdom,  he  became  a  cand- 
idate for  President  of  the  United  States,  and  sent  forth  the  Apostles 
and  Elders  of  the  Church  to  present  his  "views  on  Government"  to 
the  people  of  the  States  of  the  Union.  Incorporated  in  the  platform  of 
political  principles  upon  which  he  proposed  to  stand,  was  a  provision 
for  the  liberation  of  the  slaves  of  the  South — not  by  violence,  not  by 
confiscation,  thus  despoiling  their  owners ;  for  the  slaves  were  their 
property,  inherited  from  their  fathers  and  grandfathers :  The  Prophet 
recognized  this  "fact,  and  he  said,  let  the  Nation  purchase  the  slaves 
and  set  them  free :  let  the  colored  man  owe  his  liberty  to  the  Govern- 
ment as  a  sift;  the  money  for  the  purchase  to  be  realized  from  the 
sale  of  public  lands.  Eleven  years  later,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  the 
great  philosopher,  made  the  same  identical  suggestion,  and  was  praised 
and  commended  for  his  humane  and  just  proposition — though  his  ad- 
vice was  not  taken.  How  many  of  those  who  praised  Emerson  appre- 
ciated Toseph  Smith,  who  had  offered  the  same  suggestion  eleven  years 
before?  It's  an  awful  thing  to  be  a  "Mormon!" — in  the  eyes  of  the 
world,  at  least.    We  are  proud  of  it.    The  Prophet's  counsel  was 


72 


GENERAL  .CONFERENCE. 


not  acted  upon.  The  hate-blinded  politicians  of  that  period  thought 
they  saw  ''a  more  excellent  way,"  and  the  great  war  came  that  cost 
this  nation  a  million  lives,  a  billion  of  treasure,  and  planted  those  ter- 
rible heart-burnings  that  separated  the  South  from  the  North  far  more 
effectually  than  Mason  and  Dixon's  line  ever  did  or  could. 

THE  JACKSON  COUNTY  SAINTS. 

In  the  year  1831,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  directed  and  inspired 
of  God,  attempted  to  build  Zion  in  Jackson  County,  Missouri,  and 
establish  a  condition  of  affairs  that  would  be  a  preparation  for  the 
Lord's  glorious  coming.  If  they  had  but  followed  the  counsel  of  their 
heaven-inspired  leader;  if  they  had  put  into  practice  God's  law  for 
the  building  up  of  Zion,  and  without  which  there  can  be  no  Zion  in 
the  fullest  and  highest  sense,  they  could  have  succeeded  even  at  that 
early  day,  for  the  Lord  said  so  in  just  that  many  words.  But  they 
failed  to  do  as  he  required,  and  another  set  of  consequences  ensued. 
They  were  "not  united,  according  to  the  union  required  by  the  law  of 
the  celestial  kingdom."  They  did  "not  impart  of  their  substance,  as 
becometh  Saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted  among  them."  They  were 
not  what  Enoch's  City  had  been —  "Zion,  because  they  were  of  one 
heart  and  one  mind  and  dwelt  in  righteousness,  and  there  was  no  poor 
among  them."  The  Jackson  County  colonists  were  the  best  people 
that  could  be  had  at  that  time  for  the  puijjpose,  but  they  were  not  good 
enough  to  carry  out  God's  holy  design.  "There  were  jarrings  and  con- 
tentions and  envyings  and  strifes  and  lustful  and  covetous  desires  among 
them ;  wherefore,  by  these  things  they  polluted  their  inheritances  ;" 
and  the  Lord,  who  had  promised  that  if  they  woufd  pursue  a  certain 
course  they  should  build  up  Zion,  now  permitted  their  enemies  to  come 
upon  them  and  drive  them  from  the  "goodly  land."  Banished — exiled 
for  failing  to  fulfill  God's  purpose. 

ZION   NOT  MOVED. 

Banished,  but  not  forsaken!  In  a  revelation  given  soon  after- 
wards, the  Lord  said  to  his  people :  "Let  your  hearts  be  comforted 
concerning  Zion ;  for  all  flesh  is  in  mine  hands :  Be  still  and'  know 
that  I  am  God.  Zion  shall  not  be  moved  out  of  her  place,  not- 
withstanding her  children  are  scattered.  They  that  remain,  and  are 
pure  in  heart,  shall  return  and  come  to  their  inheritances,  they  and 
their  children,  with  songs  of  everlasting  joy,  to  build  up  the  waste 
places  of  Zion."  Until  then,  he  had  "other  places"  he  said,  for  the 
gathering  of  his  Saints,  and  they  should  be  called  "Stakes  of  Zion." 

THE  GLORIOUS  FUTURE. 

The  Elders  were  told  that  they  must  "wait  for  a  little  season  for 
the  redemption  of  Zion."  The  people  were  to  become  mighty,  not  only 
in  numbers  and  in  material  influence,  but  mighty  by  the  power  of 
God  descending  upon  them  as  an  endowment  from  on  high.  When  the 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


n 


time  should  be  ripe  and  all  things  ready,  then,  said  the  Lord:  "Mine 
angels  shall  go  before  you,  and  also  my  presence,  and  in  time  ye  shall 
possess  the  goodly  land."  Again :  "I  will  fight  your  battles.  Behold, 
the  destroyer  I  have  sent  forth  to  destroy  and  lay  waste  mine  enemies ; 
and  not  many  years  hence  they  shall  not  be  left  to  pollute  mine  heritage 
and  to  blaspheme  my  name  upon  the  lands  which  I  have  consecrated  for 
the  gathering  together  of  my  saints." 

We  must  live  God's  laws  if  we  desire  to  reap  his  promises.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  of  Jackson  County  were  a  far  better  people  than 
those  who  mobbed  them  and  drove  them  from  their  homes ;  but  a  lack 
of  preparedness  hindered  them  from  playing  their  full  part  in  the 
great  work  that  God  had  designed.  The  mighty  event,  however,  was 
only  postponed.  Zion,  in  due  time,  will  be  redeemed;  Israel  will  be 
gathered;  and  the  preparation  made  that  is  necessary  to  precede  the 
advent  of  the  King  of  kings. 

GODJS  COVENANT  WITH  ENOCH. 

More  than  five  thousand  years  ago  a  prophet  of  God  obtained  a 
promise  from  him  in  relation  to  these  things,  and  I  will  now  read  to 
you  a  portion  of  that  promise: 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  As  I  live,  even  so  will  I  come  in  the 
last  days,  in  the  days  of  wickedness  and  vengeance,  to  fulfill  the  oath  which 
I  have  made  unto  you  concerning  the  children  of  Noah; 

"And  the  day  shall  come  that  the  earth  shall  rest;  but  before  that  day 
the  heavens  shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil  of  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth; 
and  the  heavens  shall  shake,  and  also  the  earth,  and  great  tribulations  shall 
be  among  the  children  of  men. 

"But  my  people  will  I  preserve.  And  righteousness  will  I  send  down 
out  of  heaven,  and  truth  will  I  send  forth  out  of  the  earth,  to  bear  testi- 
mony of  mine  Only  Begotten,  his  resurrection  from  the  dead,  yea,  and  also 
the  resurrection  of  all  men;  and  righteousness  and  truth  will  I  cause  to 
sweep  the  earth  as  with  a  flood,  to  gather  out  mine  elect  from  the  four 
quarters  of  the  earth,  unto  a  place  which  I  shall  prepare,  an  Holy  City,  that 
my  people  may  gird  up  their,  loins,  and  be  looking  forth  for  the  time  of  my 
coming;  for  there  shall  be  my  tabernacle,  and  it  shall  be  called  Zion,  a  New 
Jerusalem. 

"And  the' Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  Then  shalt  thou  and  all  thy  city  meet 
them  there,  and  we  will  receive  them  into  our  bosom,  and  they  shall  see 
us;  and  we  will  fall  upon  their  necks,  and  they  shall  fall  upon  our  necks, 
and*  we  will  kiss  each  other. 

"And  there  shall  be  mine  abode,  and  it  shall  be  Zion,  which  shall 
come  forth  out  of  all  the  creations  which  I  have  made;  and  for  the  space 
of  a  thousand  years  the  earth  shall  rest." 

THE  GREAT  PEACE. 

There  is  the  great  peace  promised  for  this  suffering,  war-torn 
planet.  Enoch  saw  the  glorious  dawn,  and  likewise  "the  darkest  hour" 
before  the  dawn.  We  are  living  in  the  Saturday  evening  of  Time. 
God  gave  to  this  earth  seven  days,  or  seven  periods'  of  a  thousand 
years  each,  in  which  to  accomplish  its  mortal  mission — -six  working 
days  and  a  day  of  rest,  the  period  of  sanctification.    Four  thousand 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


years,  or  four  of  those  great  days,  had  passed  before  Christ  was  cruci- 
fied ;  and  nearlj  two  thousand  years  have  gone  by  since.  Consequently, 
we  are  now  at  the  end  of  the  week,  in  the  Saturday  night  of  human 
history.  Morning  will  break  upon  the  Millennium,  the  thousand  years 
of  peace,  the  Sabbath  of  the  world.  And  any  man,  nation,  or  move- 
ment that  turns  its  steps  in  that  direction,  is  walking  toward  the 
Light! 

This  is  a  wonderful  prediction.  It  began  to  be  fulfilled  when  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  the  boy  Joseph,  in  the  spring  of  1820. 
Let  it  not  be  forgotten  that  the  first  to  bear  testimony  of  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father  in  this  dispensation  was  the  Father  hirnself,  for  he 
said  to  that  boy :  "This  is  my  belovevd  Son,  hear  him."  It  was  Right- 
eousness looking  down  from  heaven ;  and  subsequently  Truth  came 
out  of  the  earth — the  inspired  records  of  the  ancient  past,  containing  the 
fulness  of  the  Everlasting  Gospel.  Down  from  Heaven  came  the 
powers  of  the  Priesthood,  the  authority  to  preach  that  Gospel  to  all 
the  world  as  a  witness  bef  ore  the  end ;  and  ever  since  that  day  truth  and 
righteousness,  or  the  Gospel  preached  by  the  power  of  God,  has  been 
going  forth  to  gather  his  elect  and  bring  them  to  their  promised  land. 
The  gathered  Saints  are  up  here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  out  of  harm's 
way,  comparatively  speaking,  founding  Stakes  of  Zion,  as  a  preliminary 
to  the  establishment  of  Zion  proper ;  and  we  shall  remain  here  until  our 
.  preparation  is  complete.  When  the  right  time  comes,  and  all  things 
are  ready,  the  pure  in  heart,  chosen  from  the  midst  of  this  people,  will 
go  down  in  the  might  of  the  Lord  and  redeem  Zion. 

THE  SONG  OF  THE  REDEEMED. 

Then  shall  the  New  Jerusalem  be  built,  and  the  way  prepared  for 
the  return  of  the  City  of  Enoch  and  for  the  glorious  coming  of  the 
Lord.  Then  shall  be  realized  the  blest  condition  described  in  this  song 
of  the  redeemed: 

The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion, 

The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people,  Israel. 

*  *  * 

And  Satan  is  bound,  and  time  is  no  longer. 

The  Lord  hath  gathered  all  things  in  one: 

The  Lord  hath  brougth  down  Zion  from  above, 

The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from  beneath. 

The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought  forth  her  strength', 

*  *  * 

And  the  heavens  have  smiled  upon  her, 
And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of  her  God; 
For  he  stands  in  the  midst  of  his  people. 

Amen. 

Edna  Gothberg  sang  a  solo :  "I  will  lift  up  mine  eyes." 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  MCKAY. 


75 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 

I  wish  to  read  a  few  words  from  one  of  the  strongest  testimonies  to 
the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Christ  that  we  have  in  sacred  literature. 

A  TESTIMONY  TO  THE  DIVINE  MISSION  OF  CHRIST. 

Peter  and  John  had  the  previous  day  passed  by  a  lame  man  who 
had  sat  at  the  temple  from  his  youth,  after  having  been  carried  there, 
and  sought  alms  from  those  who  had  gone  into  the  temple  to  worship. 
You  remember  that  Peter  answered  his  pleadings  by  saying:  "Silver 
and  gold  have  I  none,  but  such  as  I  have  give  I  thee.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  rise  and  walk."  Later,  as  these  apostles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  were  bearing  testimony  of  his  divinity  in  Solomon's 
Court,  they  were  arrested  and  put  in  hold  until  the  next  day  when 
they  were  brought  before  the  council,  and  as  they  stood  before  their 
accusers  this  is  what  Peter  is  reported  to  have  said :  "If  we  this  day  be 
examined  of  the  good  deed  done  to  the  impotent  man,  by  what  means 
he  is  made  whole,  be  it  known  unto  you  all,  and  to  all  the  people 
of  Israel,  that  by  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye 
crucified,  whom  God  raised  from  the  dead,  even  by  him  doth  this  man 
stand  here  before  you  whole.  That  is  the  stone  which  was  set  at  - 
naught  of  you  builders,  which  has  become  the  head  of  the  corner. 
Neither  is  there  salvation  in  any  other,  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men  whereby  we  must  be  saved."  That  is 
my  testimony  to  Israel  and  to  the  world  today.  There  is  none  other 
name  under  heaven  given  among  men  whereby  'we  must  be  saved. 

CHRISTIANITY  HAS  NOT  FAILED. 

It  is  now  about  one  year  ago,  following  a  session  of  the  fall  con- 
ference held  at  that  time,  and  just  a  few  weeks  before  the  signing  of  the 
armistice  that  put  an  end  to  the  carnage  of  the  most  terrible  conflict  of 
the  world,  that  I  met  a  very  dear  friend  who  wanted  to  know  how  such 
a  catastrophe  could  overtake  the  worloVin  the  light  of  the  fact  that 
Christianity  had  been  preached  for  nearly  two  thousand  years.  Said 
he :  "Christianity  has  failed,  and,"  he  added,  "the  pepole  of  the  world 
generally  accept  it  as  a  fact  that  Christianity  has  failed.  Let  us  ap- 
proach some  man  as  we  walk  up  this  street,  and  ask  him  the  question ;" 
and  it  chanced  that  we  overtook  a  young  man  whom  we  both  knew,  and 
just  as  my  friend  had  aaid,  when  he  put  the  question:  How  do  ycu 
explain  this  world's_ catastrophe  in  the  light  of  Christianity?  he  an- 
swered :  "Christianity  has  failed." 

VIOLATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  PRINCIPLES  BROUGHT  ON  THE  WAR. 

I  took  issue  with  them  then,  and  I  take  it  today,  by  answering  that 
the  conditions  which  brought  about  that  world  conflict  were  un-Chris- 
tian.   There  was  no  Christianity  in  it.    The  world  did  not  have  Chris- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tianity.  Now,  at  first  thought  that  might  seem  unjust  to  the  many 
honest,  true  followers  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  mean  many  who  in 
their  hearts  profess  belief  in  the  principles  of  Christianity  and  who  in 
their  lives  sincerely  desir.e  to  live  those  principles.  I  grant  there  were 
many  such  honest  souls  in  the  world.  There  are  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  just  such  honest  souls,  but  I  say,  too,  that  it  was  not  from 
their  ranks  that  the  evil,  which  precipitated  the  world  war,  sprang.  It 
was  not  from  those  who  obeyed  Christian  principles  that  thfe  carnage 
and  bloodshed  came.  It  was  from  those  who  violated  Christian  stand- 
ards, who  rejected  the  principles  which  Christ  taught  and  who  even 
went  so  far  as  to  reject,  not  only  his  divinity,  but  the  very  doctrines 
which  he  advocated.  I  haven't  time,  I  shall  not  take  the  time,  even  to 
name  those  principles,  hut  there  are  two  or  three  fundamental  things 
which  stand  out  in  Christ's  teachings  the  mere  mention  of  which  will 
be  sufficient  to  make  my  point. 

THE  KINGDOM   OF  GOD  A  REALITY. 

What  was  the  burden  of  Christ's  teaching  when  he  came  among 
men?  The  first  great  proclamation  was  the  announcement  that  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand.  "Repent  for  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at 
hand."  The  fore-runner,  John  the  Baptist,  preached  that.  .  He  preached 
the  coming  of  the  Lord.  He  showed  the  position  which  the  Lord  would 
hold  in  that  kingdom  and  the  Savior  bore  witness  to  it  and  preached 
the  same.  And  what  was  that  kingdom?  Not  a  mystical,  but  a  real 
kingdom;  not  just  a  feeling  within,  but  an  outward  expression  of 
righteousness.  It  was  divine  government  among  men.  That  was  what 
the  Savior  had  in  mind,  the  establishing  of  a  divine  government  among 
men. 

I  was  pleased  the  other  day,  in  reading  a  book  written  by  a  man 
who  rejected  Christ  as  the  Redeemer,  to  find  that  even  he  had  to 
acknowledge  that  Christ's  principles  would  finally  establish  just  such  a 
kingdom.    This  is  what  he  says,  in  Problems  of  Religion:  . 

But  after  all,  there  was  a  deeper  truth  in  his  dream  of  the  coming 
of  a  golden  age  and  his  own  pa#t  in  its  establishment  than  any  of  his  con- 
temporaries could  know.  Though  its  coming  be  far  more  remote  than  he 
thought,  the  time  will  yet  come  when  God's  will  shall  prevail  on  earth, 
and  in  the  bringing  on  of  that  cosummation  he  will  be  seen  to  have  in  truth 
played  the  master  role. 

\ 

To  the  Savior  of  the  world,  to  the  twelve,  and  the  many  other  dis- 
ciples, the  kingdom  of  God,  as  taught  by  the  Redeemer,  was  indeed  a 
reality  in  which  the  government  of  men  would  be  one  of  justice,  love, 
charity,  mercy,  truth,  not  just  an  ephemeral  condition,  but  indeed  a 
reality. 

REQUIREMENTS  OF  MEMBERSHIP  IN  THE  KINGDOM  OF  GOD. 

What  were  the  conditions,  the  requirements  of  citizenship  in  that 
kingdom  ?     The  first  great  lesson  to  the  Jews  in  the  Meridian  of  Time 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  MCKAY. 


77 


was  this;  That  God,  the  eternal  Father,  is  indeed  our  father,  not  just 
creator,  not  just  omnipotence,  but  a  father  unto  whom  they  could  go,  a 
father  of  love.  The  word  "father"  as  it  relates  to  God,  we  are  in- 
formed, appears  about  seven  times  in  the  Old  Testament.  It  is  found 
ten  times  in  the  New  Testament  to  one  in  the  Old.  More  than  a  hun- 
dred times  in  the  New  Testament  God  is  spoken  of  as  Father.  The 
first  condition,  the  first  requirement  of  citizenship  in  that  kingdom  was 
faith  in  our  Father,  obedience  to  his  will,  honor  to  his  name.  They 
were  told  to  defile  not  his  temple,  profane  not  his  name,  to  hold  it 
sacred,  to  reverence  him,  worship  him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  and  the 
first  prayer,  model  prayer,  given  to  them :  "Our  Father,  our  Father." 

The  second  was  one  of  purity,  charity,  -love,  not  only  for  God  the 
Father,  but  for  his  children. 

The  third  was  service,  losing  themselves  for  the  good  of  others. 

Even  Christ's  enemies  will  admit  that  these  are  the  fundamental 
principles  as  taught  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  The  existence  of 
his  Father  in  whose  likeness  he  was.  "If  ye  have  seen  me,  ye  have 
seen  the  Father."  Second,  boundless  love  for  his  children,  and  third, 
service. 

APPLY  THESE  REQUIREMENTS  TO  CONDITIONS  PREVAILING  NOW  AND  DUR- 
ING THE  WAR. 

Now  apply  those  general  principles  to  the  conditions  which  were 
rampant  in  the  world  one  year  ago  and  which  are  rampant  in  the  world 
today.  Belief  in  God!  Where  was  it  manifest?  There  was  an  out- 
ward form,  it  is  true,  worshipping  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  were 
far  from  him,  and  you  know  and  the  world  knows  today  that  they  had 
heaped  to  themselves  Gods  of  the  world,  as  the  prophet  Joseph  clearly 
points  out  they  would  do,  in  Section  one  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
idols  after  the  fashion  of  the  world.  The  nation  that  precipitated  the 
great  war,  worshipped  the  God  of  power,  the  God  of  militarism,  and 
while  it  is  not  right  to  take  a  few  isolated  statements  from  men,  though 
they  be  leading  men,  and  say  all  the  people  were  prompted  by  that  same 
ideal,  yet  these  things  indicate  the  trend  of  thought  of  the  men  who  are 
responsible  for  that  world-catastrophe,  and  there  is  no  Christianity  in 
it.  In  the  application  of  the  principle  of  charity  for  all,  purity  of 
thought,  cherishing  honor,  integrity  of  soul,  why,  they  have  violated 
every  principle  of  it.  Note  the  spirit  as  exemplified  in  this  remark  when 
that  power  looking  forward  to  the  consummation  of  their  military  ideal, 
having  France  in  view,  said :  "We  must  crush  France,"  or  to  use  the 
exact  words:  "France  must  be  so  completely  crushed  that  she  can 
never  again  come  across  our  path." 

IS  THIS  CHRISTIANITY? 

Christianity?  Why,  it  is  the  spirit  of  the  evil  one.  It  is  crushing, 
it  is  death,  and  what  was  the  purpose  of  it?   To  build  up  the  god  of 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


state ;  and  to  them  the  state  knew  no  law — could  be  bound,  said  one  of 
their  men,  could  be  bound  by  none  of  its  own  laws,  for  according  to 
Treitschke  the  state  could  not  bind  itself  over  against  other  states  "by 
any  obligation,  not  even  of  its  own  making."  Is  it  any  wonder,  then, 
that  when  they  found  a  neutral  nation  in  their  path,  to  defend  which 
they  were  bound  in  all  the  honor  which  a  sacred  agreement  could  bind 
them,  that  they  tore  up  that  agreement  as  a  mere  scrap  of  paper?  Is 
there  any  Christianity  in  that? 

SELFISHNESS  AT  THE  BASIS  OF  TURMOIL,  WAR,  AND  UNREST. 

The  third  point,  service,  to  each  other?  Only  one  nation  to  serve 
and  that  was  the  nation  itself.  The  selfish,  the  self  must  be  protected 
though  others  be  crushed.  So  we  might  go  on  for  hours,  if  necessary, 
pointing  out  conditions,  small  in  themselves,  but  mighty  in  their  con- 
sequences, as  has  been  so  eloquently  pointed  out  by  my  beloved 
fellow  laborer,  Brother  Whitneyfflsmall  in  themselves,  but  mighty  in 
their  consequences,  indicating  that  it  was  not  because  of  Christianity, 
but  because  of  the  rejection  of  Christian  principles  that  these  conditions 
came  upon  the  world. 

i 

CHRIST  AND  HIS  DOCTRINE  THE  ONLY  WAY  TO  PEACE. 

So  it  is  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  There  are  honest  people 
in  the  world,  there  are  true  Christian  people  in  the  world,  but  it  is  not 
from  them  that  present-day  trouble  springs.  You  do  not  find  hatred 
and  enmity  in  their  hearts.  The  men  who  desire  to  wring  from  the 
poor  that  which  does  not  belong  to  them,  are  not  prompted  by  Christian 
principles.  The  men  who  are  revengeful  against  others  simply  because 
others  have  property,  are  not  prompted  by  Christian  principles,  and  to- 
day it  is  our  duty  to  preach  Christ  and  him  crucified  and  to  declare 
to  all  the  world  that  he  is  indeed  the  chief  cornerstone,  that  through 
him,  and  by  him,  and  only  by  obedience  to  his  principles,  can  we  have 
that  peace,  happiness,  contentment  and  prosperity  in  the  world  for 
which  we  are  all  longing  and  praying. 

HOW  TO  PREACH  CHRISTIANITY. 

The  best  way  to  preach  that,  my  dear  fellow  workers,  is  by  ex- 
ample. Start  to  have  or  be  sure  that  you  have  in  every  Latter-day 
Saint  a  truly  Christian  spirit.  Is  there  prayer  in  that  home?  Are 
you  following  Christ's  admonition  to  pray  to  the  Father  and  teach 
your  children  to  pray,  that  godliness,  reverence  for  God  and  his  work, 
every  day  may  be  impressed  upon  the  hearts  of  your  children?  That 
should  be  in  every  home.  Pray  not  only  for  yourselves,  but  pray  even 
for  your  enemies.  Are  you  charitable  in  your  homes  and  your  organiza- 
tions for  those  who  are  not  of  the  same  opinion  as  you  ?  We  talk  about 
service  to  others.    Too  often  when  service  is  mentioned  we  think  of 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  MCKAY. 


79 


some  physical  aid  that  we  might  render.  I  tell  you  a  better  service  can 
>  sometimes  be  given  to  others  by  speaking  well  of  them,  or,  if  you  can- 
not speak  well  of  them,  by  refraining  from  speaking  of  them  at  all, 
than  .by  any  physical  aid  which  we  can  give.  O,  how  gloriously  Christ 
taught  us  that  principle  of  charity  when  those  self-righteous  men 
dragged  into  his  presence  that  fallen  woman  and  almost  with  a  curse 
threw  her  at  his  feet,  asking  him  what  he  would  do  to  her.  The  law  of 
Moses  said  she  should  be  stoned  to  death.  What  do  you  say?  He 
wrote  with  his  finger  in  the  sand,  and  without  looking  at  her  accusers, 
said:  "Let  him  that  is  without  sin  cast  the  first  stone."  Then  went 
on  writing.  One  by  one  they  slunk  away,  and  when  he  looked  up,  none 
was  there.  Said  he:  "Woman,  where  are  thine  accusers?"  "They 
are  all  fled."  "Is  there  not  one  left  to  accuse  thee?"  "No,  not  one." 
"Then  neither  do  I  accuse  thee."  He,  who  could  not  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance,  could  say,  "neither  do  I  accuse  thee ;" 
but  note :  "go  thy  way,  and  sin  no  more."  The  person  separated  from 
the  sin,  from  the  act.  The  sin  was  just  as  detestable,  was  just  as 
heinous  in  his  eyes,  but  the  poor  creature  was  to  be  saved.  Let  us  in 
our  dealings  with  one  another  separate  the  thing  from  the  individual  if 
we  can,  and  not  wound  one  another's  feelings,  serve  one  another  as 
true  Christians  should  serve  by  upholding  one  another. 

THE  APPLICATION. 

Now,  I  mention  that  simply  to  make  this  application.  Before 
thirty  days  shall  have  passed  we  may  be  in  the  heat  of  an  election. 
We  never  get  angry  at  people  towards  whom  we  are  indifferent.  We 
never  get  injured  over  the  contemplation  of  a  thing  that  is  not  very  dear 
to  us,  but  we  do  get  angry  when  one  who  is' near  to  us  disagrees  with 
us.  We  get  hurt  and  in  the  heat  of  passion  say  things  for  which  after- 
wards we  are  sorry.  Let  us  in  very  deed  apply  our  principles  of  Chris- 
tianity and  speak  well  of  those  who  might  happen  to  disagree  with  us. 

Nay,  speak  no  ill,  a  kindly  word 

Can  never  leave  a  sting  behind, 
And  oh,  to  breathe  each  tale  we've  heard, 

Is  far  beneath  a  noble  mind. 
Full  oft  a  better  seed  is  sown, 

By  choosing  thus  the  kinder  plan, 
For  if  but  little  good  is  known, 

Still  let  us  speak  the  best  we  can. 

That  is  good  doctrine.  It  is  good'  to  be  applied  in  our  quorums,  in 
our  associations,  in  our  groupings,  during  the  discussion  of  heated 
questions. 

ONLY  THROUGH  CHRIST  IS  RIGHTEOUSNESS  ESTABLISHED. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  only  one  name  given  under  heaven 
whereby  the  principles  of  righteousness,  of  peace,  of  contentment,  of 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


eternal  life  can  be  established  among  men  and  that  name  is  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  know  he  is  our  Savior.  I  know  the  world 
must  accept  him.  They  must  sooner  or  later  bow  before  him  as  the 
King  of  kings,  and  the  Lord  of  lords.  That  the  Lord  will  help  us  to 
be  true  to  him,  help  us  to  bear  testimony  to  the  world  by  our  acts,  by 
gentleness,  charity,  love,  service  to  one  another  and  to  the  world,  that 
we  know  that  he  has  revealed  to  men  in  this  dispensation  the  truth  that 
God  lives,  that  his  Son  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and  that  the  gospel 
is  the  eternal  plan  of  salvation,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Charles  H.  Kent  sang  a  baritone  solo:  "I  know  that  my 
Redeemer  lives." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.TVINS 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall 
be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

And  many  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his 
ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths;  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law, 
and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem. 

And  he  shall  judge  among  the  nations,  and  shall  rebuke  many  people: 
and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  and  their  spears  into 
pruninghooks;  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall 
they  learn  war  any  more. 

HOW  TO  OBTAIN  BENEFIT  FROM  THE  SCRIPTURES. 

/' 

We  are  told,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  all  scripture  is  given 
by  inspiration  from  God,  and  that  we  should  search  it  carefully,  be- 
cause in  it  we  think  we  have  eternal  life. 

To  derive  the  greatest  benefit  from  the  written  word,  it  is  neces- 
sarv  that  we  be  familiar  with  the  entire  text ;  it  is  impossible  to  form  a 
correct  conception  by  the  simple  reading  of  an  isolated  passage ;  we 
must  be  familiar  with  that  which  goes  before,  and  follows  after  it,  and 
more  than  all  else,  we  must  be  able  to  discern  whether  that  which  we 
read  is  a  definite  declaration  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  or  simply 
a  condition  which  depends  upon  the  actions  of  men  for  its  fulfilment,  or 
non-fulfilment. 

A  very  common  error,  and  one  which  has  led  to  criticism  of  the 
scripture,  and  lack  of  faith  in  the  printed  word,  is  the  fact  that  men 
confound  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  it  applies  to  his  definite  plans,  and 
unchangeable  purposes,  with  the  words  of  the  prophets,  who,  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  foretold  events  which  were  to  occur  among 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  many  of  which  events  were  not  decreed 
of  God,  but,  on  the  contrary,  were  obnoxious  to  him,  contrary  to  his 
will,  and  entirely  due  to  the  disobedience  of  the  people,  who,  despite 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


81 


the  word  and  will  of  the  Lord,  brought  judgment  upon  their  own 
heads. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION. 

To  illustrate  that  which  I  wish  to  express  I  will  read  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon : 

And  the  Lord  would  not  suffer  that  they  should  stop  beyond  the  sea 
in  the  wilderness,  but  he  would  that  they  should  come  forth  even  unto  the 
land  of  promise,  which  was  choice  above  all  other  lands,  which  the  Lord 
God  had  preserved  for  a  righteous  people;  and  he  had  sworn  in  his  wrath 
unto  the  brother  of  Jared,  that  whoso  should  possess  this  land  of  promise, 
from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever,  should  serve  him,  the  true  and  only 
God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  should 
come  upon  them. 

And  now  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land,  that 
it  is  a  land  of  promise,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it,  shall  serve 
God,  or  they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come 
upon  them.  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are 
ripened  in  iniquity. 

For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  where- 
fore he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God,  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity 
among  the  children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept  off.  And  this  cometh 
unto  you,  O  ye  Gentfles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decree  of  God,  that  ye  may 
repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness  come,  that  ye 
may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  upon  you,  as  the  in- 
habitants of  the  land  hath  hitherto  done. 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it, 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  tkey  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ, 
who  hath  been  manifested  by  the  things  which  we  have  written. 

AMERICA  DEDICATED  TO  JESUS  CHRIST. 

In  this  scripture  we  have  the  definite,  unchangeable  decree  of  God 
concerning  America.  It  is,  and  will  always  be  a  choice  land,  choice 
above  all  other  lands.  It  will  always  be  a  land  dedicated  to  the  God  of 
the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ.  The  latter  part  of  the  prediction  is  en- 
f'rely  conditional.  Whatsoever  people  inhabit  this  land  shall  serve 
the  Lord !  and  if  they  observe  to  do  so,  they  are  to  be  free  from  all 
other  nations,  and  are  never  to  be  brought  down  into  bondage,  but  the 
moment  they  depart  from  the  truth,  and  turn  from  the  Lord,  the  prom- 
ise ceases  to  be  effective ;  they  have  no  promise,  but  on  the  contrary  the 
Lord  says  that  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity,  they  shall  be  de- 
stroyed, or  in  other  words,  they  will  bring  destruction  upon  themselves, 
as  it  has  come  to  all  nations  when  the  protecting  power  of  the  Lord 
is  withheld. 

The  word  of  the  Lord,  which  I  have  read  was  delivered  to  the 
people  of  Jared,  and  they  were  given  this  land  for  an  inheritance,  on 
condition  that  they  would  serve  the  Lord  of  the  land'  who  is  Jesus 
Christ.    They  rejected  the  truth  and  were  destroyed.    The  promise 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


was  repeated  to  the  Nephites,  they  were  warned  that  this  was  a  land 
dedicated  to  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  were  advised  of  the  destruc- 
tion which  had  come  to  the  former  inhabitants,  because  of  their  lack 
of  faith,  but  notwithstanding  this  fact,  that  their  prophets  warned 
them  of  the  judgments  which  were  to  come  to  them,  because  of  their 
iniquity,  and  that  the  Messiah  visited  them  in  person,  and  promised 
them  redemption,  through  faith  in  him,  they  became  faithless  and 
wicked,  and  finally  disappeared  as  a  nation.  It  was  not  because  the 
Lord  decreed  their  destruction,  or  that  he  desired  it.  On  the  contrary, 
he  desired  their  redemption,  and  provided  a  way  by  which  they  could 
attain  to  it,  but  they  wilfully  rebelled  against  God,  and  brought  their 
own  destruction. 

PURPOSES  OF  GOD  ACCOMPLISHED  BY  OTHER  MEANS  THAN  MEN  EXPECT. 

/ 

One  great  difficulty  with  mankind  has  been  that^  they  have  ex- 
pected the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  to  be  accomplished  by  means  dif- 
ferent from  that  which  he  has  used.  The  coming  of  the  Messiah,  and 
his  mission  to  mankind,  was  taught  in  the  very  beginning  of  time.  The 
Jews  looked  for  their  Redeemer,  believed  that  he  would  come,  but  they 
refused  to  accept  Jesus,  because  of  the  humility  of  his  birth,'  and  the 
character  which  he  assumed  among  men.  They  looked  for  one  who 
would  come  in  pomp  and  splendor,  to  tread  down  their  enemies,  and 
restore  the  kingdom,  as  it  existed  under  their  great  king,  David.  The 
simple  Nazarene,  to  them  the  son  of  an  humble  carpenter,  they  would 
not  accept,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  was 
manifest  in  his  life  and  works.  He  was  rejected  by  his  own  people,  and 
persecuted  unto  death. 

At  the  time  of  his  death  light  came  into  the  world ;  there  was  no 
darkness  when  the  night  came,  angels  upon  the  hills  of  Judea  sang, 
"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  on  earth  peace,  good  will  to  men."  He 
bore  witness  that  he  came  to  bring  salvation  to  his  people,  and  wept  be- 
cause they  rejected  his  offering.  "O,  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  *  *  * 
how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  together,  even  as  a 
hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not ;  Behold, 
your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  *  *  *  Ye  shall  not  see  me 
henceforth,  till  ye  shall  say,  Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord." 

That  the  mission  of  the  Christ  failed,  so  far  as  the  redemption 
of  the  House  of  Israel,  at  that  time,  was  concerned,  was  not  the  fault 
of  either  the  Father  or  the  Son,  but  was  because  of  the  fact  that  the 
people  rejected  the  truth,  and  wilfully  sinned  against  light.  Peace 
might  have  come  to  the  world,  and  redemption  to  mankind  at  that  time 
had  the  people  desired  it,  and.  been  obedient  to  the  voice  of  the  Son 
of  God. 

John,  in  the  revelation  given  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  saw  another 
angel  flying  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  to  them  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  crying  with  a  loud  voice,  fear 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


83 


God,  and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  has  come. 
Christ  bore  witness  that  in  the  latter-days  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
would  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  to  all  people,  before 
the  end  should  come. 

These  declarations  have  been  preached  from  every  pulpit  in  Chris- 
tendom. Men  have  looked  forward  to  a  great  miracle,  a  mighty  angel 
with  a  trump,  proclaiming,  with  a  voice  to  be  heard  everywhere,  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  but  it  did  not  come  in  that  way,  and  when  this  scrip- 
ture was  fulfilled  through  the  prophet  of  the  latter  days,  the  people 
were  no  more  ready  to  accept  it  than  they  were  to  accept  the  Christ  as 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  In  each  instance  they  were  praying  for, 
and  looking  forward  to,  the  coming  event,  but  in  both  instances  re- 
jected it,  because  it  did  not  come  in  the  manner  they  expected  and  de- 
sired. 

i 

PERMANENT  PEACE  TO  COME  TO  THE  EARTH. 

The  scripture  which  I  read  at  the  commencement  of  my  remarks 
is  a  definite,  positive  statement,  that  peace  will  come  to  the  earth,  a 
peace  which  will  be  universal  and  permanent.  Nation  shall  not  lift  up 
sword  against  nation,  neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more.  The 
manner  in  which  this  desired  condition  will  be  brought  about,  this  con- 
dition for  which  all  good  men  and  women  have  prayed  and  waited, 
is  not  stated.  It  is  urged  by  some  that  the  nations  will  be  so  wasted,  be- 
fore peace  is  established,  that  they  will  be  without  power  to  wage  war. 
By  others  that  peace  cannot  come  until  the  people  are  all  converted  to 
the  gospel, -and  that  this  will  not  occur  until  after  the  coming  of  the 
Redeemer.  For  myself  I  do  not  know  just  how  or  when  peace  will 
be  established  upon  the  earth,  but  of  this  I  feel  certain,  that  it  will  never 
be  established  until  the  people  want  it,  and  are  willing  to  establish  and 
maintain  it.  If  the  time  of  its  establishment  is  to  be  deferred,  it  will  be 
because  we  reject  the  offer  which  is  now  made  to  us,  for  the  Lord  him- 
self cannot  establish  peace  on  earth,  if  the  people  are  determined  not 
to  have  it.  I  do  not  know  whether  it  will  be  through  the  present 
league  and  covenant,  or  by  some  other  means.  It  would  be  no  more 
strange  if  it  were  accomplished  through  the  present  covenant  than 
has  been  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  to  which  I  have  referred, 
by  the  means  which  the  Lord  has  used. 

THROUGH  WHAT  PLAN? 

I 

The  world  has  just  emerged  from  the  most  destructive,  devasting 
war  it  has  ever  known,  so  far  as  we  are  aware.  War-weary,  the  people 
are  crying  for  some  plan  which  will  make  a  repetition  of  that  through 
which  we  have  just  passed  impossible.  For  the  first  time  in  our  his- 
tory the  strongest  nations  of  the  world  have  entered  into  a  league, 
or  covenant,  by  which  it  is  hoped  that  peace  may  be  established  and 
maintained.    It  is  said,  as  has  always  been  said  of  every  great  for- 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE,. 


ward  movement,  that  the  plan  is  not  a  good  one,  that  it  will  not  bring 
peace,  but  will  be  a  fruitful  source  of  discordand  strife.  It  is  urgea 
that  some  better  plan  may  be  found,  that  the  time  for  peace  has  not 
yet  come,  that  the  Lord  will  accomplish  what  we  are  trying  to  do,  if 
we  will  only  wait  and  leave  the  matter  to  him. 

THROUGH  ANY  PLAN  UPHELD  BY  A  UNITED  PEOPLE. 

I  feel  certain  that  no  plan  will  succeed,  no  matter  who  is  its 
author,  or  when  it  may  come,  to  which  the  majority  of  the  people  are 
opposed.  I  am  just  as  oertain  that  the  present  plan,  or  any  other 
like  unto  it,  will  succeed  beyond  our  fondest  hopes,  provided  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  will  unite  in  a  determined  effort  to  establish  and  main- 
tain it.  If  the  effort  and  energy  which  are  being  used  to  defeat  the 
present  league  were  united  with  the  efforts  of  those  who  are  seeking 
to  establish  and  carry  it  into  effect,  there  is  no  power  that  could  stay 
it ;  without  the  united  effort,  I  fear  that  it  will  fail.  I  care  not  who 
is  its  author,  whether  its  terms  be  those  of  the  present  covenant,  or 
some  other  like  unto  it,  there  must  be  some  such  league,  or  covenant 
entered  into  between  the  peoples  of  the  world,  otherwise  I  can  see 
only  the  mobilization  of  larger  armies,  the  building  of  greater  navies, 
the  filling  of  war  chests  with  gold,  the  means  which  Lucifer  said  he 
would  use  to  dominate  the  earth,  and  war,  war  which  will  bring  a 
carnival  of  bloodshed  and  suffering,  compared  with  which  the  war 
just  determined  will  be  forgotten. 

PEACE   WILL   COME  WHEN   THE   PEOPLE  UNITEDLY   W.ANT  IT. 

When  referring  to  this  question  before  I  have  been  accused  of 
talking  politics,  of  tricky  word-building,  by  which  I  may  fool  the  peo- 
ple. Can  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  be  deceived  by  tricky 
word-building?  I  do  not  believe  it  possible.  The  sheep  know  the  voice 
of  the  good  shepherd,  and  a  stranger  they  will  not  follow.  I  speak 
for  no  party,  for  no  candidate,  but  for  the  Master  whom  I  serve,  to 
whom  I  have  given  my  life's  work,  to  whose  words  and  works  my 
conscience  is  a  captive,  who  has  admonished  me  to  live  at  peace  with 
all  men,  to  raise  the  standard  of  peace,  and  maintain  it  in  the  world, 
and  with  his  help  I  will  continue  to  follow  him,  to  be  guided  by  his 
words  and  works,  regardless  of  the  opinions  of  men.  He  has  always 
held  out  the  hope  of  peace,  he  does  so  today.  The  people  of  the  world 
can  have  peace  now,  as  they  might  have  had  it  long  ago,  if  they  want 
it,  we  must  choose  whether  we  will  follow  Christ,  or  Moloch;  if  the 
former  blessed  are  we,  if  the  latter  woe  is  our  lot.  May  the  Lord 
inspire  us  to  choose  the  better  way,  at  this  time  when  his  wisdom 
is  so  indispensible,  is  my  humble  prayer.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  favorite  hymn  of  President 
Lorenzo  Snow : 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  WINS. 


85 


Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 

Zion,  kept  by  power  divine; 
All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 
Though  the  world  in  arms  combine; 
Happy  Zion, 

What  a  favored  lot  is  thine! 

Every  hiiman  tie  may  perish, 

Friend  to  friend  unfaithful  prove, 
Mothers  cease  their  own  to  cherish, 

Heaven  and  earth  at  last  remove; 
But  no  changes 

Can  attend  Jehovah's  love. 

In  the  furnace  God  may  prove  thee, 

Thence  to  bring  thee  forth  more  bright, 
But  can  never  cease  to  love  thee, 

Thou  art  precious  in  His  sight; 
God  is  with  thee; 

Thou  shalt  triumph  in  His  might. 

Elder  Heber  C.  Austin,  President  of  tjje  Bingham  stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  Conference  was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 

Unuttered  or  expressed; 
The  motion  of  a  hidden  fire 

That  trembles  in  the  breast. 

Prayer  is  the  burden  of  a  sigh, 

The  falling  of  a  tear, 
The  upward  glancing  of  an  eye, 

When  none  but  God  is  near. 

Prayer  is  the  simplest  form  of  speech 

That  infant  lips  can  try; 
Prayer,  the  sublimest  strains  that  reach 

The  majesty  on  high. 

Prayer  is  the  Christian's  vital  breath, 

The  Christian's  native  air; 
His  watchword  at  the  gates  of  death; 

He  enters  heaven  with  prayer. 

Prayer  is  the  contrite  sinner's  voice, 

Returning  from  his  ways, 
While  angels  in  their  songs  rejoice, 

And  cry,  "Behold,  he  prays!" 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  Saints  in  prayer  appear  as  one 

In  word  and  deed  and  mind, 
While  with  the  Father  and  the  Son 

Their  fellowship  they  find. 

Nor  prayer  is  made  on  earth  alone; 

The  Holy  Spirit  pleads, 
And  Jesus  on  the  Father's  throne,  ? 

For  sinners  intercedes. 

O  thou  by  whom  we  come  to  God, 

The  Life,  the  Truth,  the  Way! 
The  path  of  prayer  Thyself  hast  trod; 

Lord,  teach  us  how  to  pray. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Arthur  W.  Horsley,  of  the  Carbon 
stake,  Price,  Utah. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 

Come,  O  Thou  King  of  kings — • 

We've  waited  long  for  Thee — 
With  healing  in  Thy  wings, 
To  set  Thy  people  free. 
Come,  Thou  desire  of  nations,  come, 
Let  Israel  now  be  gathered  home. 

Come,  make  an  end  of  sin, 

And  cleanse  the  earth  by  fire, 
And  righteousness  bring  in, 
That  Saints  may  tune  the  lyre, 
With  songs  of  joy,  a  happier  strain, 
To  welcome  in  Thy  peaceful  reign. 

Hosannas  now  shall  sound 

From  all  the  ransomed  throng, 
And  glory  echo  round, 
A  new  triumphal  song; 
The  wide  expanse  of  heaven  fill 
With  anthems  sweet  from  Zion's  hill. 

Hail!  Prince  of  Life  and  Peace! 

Thrice  welcome  to  Thy  throne! 
While  all  the  chosen  race 

Their  Lord  and  Savior  own. 
The  heathen  nations  bow  the  knee, 
And  every  tongue  sounds  praise  to  Thee. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  shall  follow  the  custom  that  has  prevailed  throughout  the  con- 
ference and  read  to  you  a  few  words  from  one  of  the  revelations: 

These  things  we  know  that  there  is  a  God  in  heaven,  who  is  infinite 
and  eternal,  from  everlasting  to  everlasting  the  same  unchangeable  God, 
the  framer  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  all  things  which  are  in  them; 

And  that  he  created  man,  male  and  female,  after  his  own  image  and  in 
his  own  likeness,  created  he  them, 


EELDR  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH. 


87 


And  he  gave  unto  them  commandments  that  they  should  love  and  serve 
him,  the  only  living  and  true  God,  and  that  he  should  be  the  only  being 
whom  they  should  worship. 

But  by  the  transgression  of  these  holy  laws,  man  became  sensual  and 
devilish,  and  became  fallen  man. 

Wherefore  the  Almighty  God  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  as  it  is 
written  in  those  scriptures  which  have  been  given  of  him. 

He  suffered  temptations  but  gave  no  heed  unto1  them; 

He-was  crucified,  died,  and  rose  again  the  third  day; 

And  ascended  into  heaven,  to  sit  down  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
to  reign  with  almighty  power  according  to  the  will  of  the  Father, 

That  as  many  as  would  believe  and  be  baptized  in  his  holy  name,  and 
endure  in  faith  to  the  end,  should  be  saved; 

Not  only  those  who  believed  after  he  came  in  the  meridian  of  time,  in 
the  flesh,  but  all  those  from  the  beginning,  even  as  many  as  were  before 
he  came,  who  believed  in  the  words  of  the  holy  prophets,  who  spake  as 
they  were  inspired  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  truly  testified  of 
him  in  all  things,  should  have  eternal  life. 

As  well  as  those  who  should  come  after,  who  should  believe  in  the 
gifts  and  callings  of  God  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  beareth  record  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the. Son; 

Which  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost  are  one  God,  infinite  and  eter- 
nal, without  end.  Amen. 

And  we  know  that  all  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  worship  the  Father  in  his  name,  and  endure  in  faith  on 
his  name  to  the  end,  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

And  we  know  that  justification  through  the  grace  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ,  is  just  and  true; 

And  we  know  also,  that  sanctification  through  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  is  just  and  true  to  all  those  who  love  and  serve 
God  with  all  their  mights,  minds,  and  strength. 

But  there  is  a  possibility  that  man  may  fall  from  grace  and  depart 
from  the  living  God; 

Therefore  let  the  Church  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest  they  fall  into 
temptation; 

Yea,  and  even  let  those  who  are  sanctified  take  heed  also. 

And  we  know  that  these  things  are  true  and  according  to  the  revela-  ' 
tions  of  John,  neither  adding  to,  nor  diminishing  from  the  prophecy  of  his 
book,  the  Holy  Scriptures,  or  the  revelations  of  God,  which  shall  come 
hereafter  by  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  voice  of  God, 
or  the  ministering  of  angels. 

And  the  Lord  God  has  spoken  it;  and  honor,  power,  and  glory,  be  ren- 
dered to  his  holy  name,  both  now  and  ever.  Amen. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH  OF  THE  QUOTED  WORDS. 

When  the  brethren  were  speaking  this  morning  my  mind  dwelt 
upon  these  verses  which  I  have  read  and  I  have  been  greatly  im- 
pressed by  them  and  I  trust  that  I  may  be  led  for  a  short  time  in 
bearing  testimony  and  speaking,  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  I  know  that  the  words  that  I  have  read  are  true.  I  believe 
absolutely  in  the  mission  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  of  this  world  and  as 
it  is  here  expressed,  I  know  that  he  came  into  the  world,  the  only 
begotten  Son  of  the  Father,  to  fulfil  this  very  mission  which  is  here 
declared 


i 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  CHURCH  TO  PRAY  ALWAYS  A  DAY  OF  WARNING. 

Now,  the  word  that  I  desire  to  impress  on  your  minds  is  this: 
"Therefore,  let  the  Church  take  heed  and  pray  always  lest  they  fall 
into  temptation."  I  have  considered  that  it  has  been  my  mission,  hav- 
ing been  so  impressed;  I  think,  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  my  travels 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  to  say  unto  the  people  that  now  is  the  day  of  re- 
pentance and  to  call  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  remember  their 
covenants,  the  promises  they  have  made  with  the  Lord,  to  keep  his 
commandments,  and  follow  the  teachings  and  the  instructions  of  the 
elders  of  Israel — the  prophets  of  God — as  they  have  been  recorded  in 
these  holy  scriptures.  In  all  things  we  should  walk  humbly  and  cir- 
cumspectly before  the  Lord  that  we  might  be  blessed  and  guided  by 
his  Holy  Spirit.  I  think  this  is  the  day  of  warning.  It  has  been  a 
time  of  warning  from  the  day  when  the  prophet  first  received  the  man- 
ifestation from  the  heavens  that  the  gospel  was  to  be  restored.  Great 
events  are  about  to  take  place  among  the  saints  of -God  and  likewise 
throughout  the  world.  We  are  living  in  a  very  important  day  and  the 
predictions  of  the  prophets  are  being  fulfilled.  As  it  was  expressed 
yesterday  Zion  has  been  established,  an  ensign  has  been  raised  in  these 
mountains,  and  the  call  has  gone  forth  unto  all  lands  and  unto  all 
peoples,  at  least  so  far  as  we  have  had  the  opportunity  to  de- 
clare that  word,  calling  upon  them  to  repent,  to  turn  unto  the 
Lord,  to  come  unto  Zion  where  this  standard  is  set  up  and 
serve  him  in  righteousness.  Israel  has  been  gathered,  and  is  being 
gathered,  from  among  the  nations,  even  all  who  will  repent  and  hearken 
unto  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  as  they  are  set  forth  in  these 
revelations.  The  Lord  will  save  all  who  will  hearken  unto  him.  His 
arm  is  stretched  out  and  he  is  willing  to  aid  and  to  help  and  to  lead 
all  in  righteousness  and  bring  all  to  Zion  who  will  come.  Our 
mission  in  all  the  world,  and  also  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  is,  Repent  ye, 
for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand.  It  is  necessary,  even  among 
the  people  who  havefbeen  gathered  out  of  Babylon,  to  cry  repent- 
ance, to  call  upon  them  to  remember  the  Lord,  to  keep  his  covenants 
and  commandments,  and  in  all  things  endeavor  to  get  possession 
of  his  Holy  Spirit  that  they  may  walk  in  the  light. 

THERE  IS  NEED  OF  REPENTANCE  IN  ZION. 

Let  me  not  be  misunderstood,  when  I  say  that  there  is  need  for 
repentance  in  Zion.  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  gone  "astray,  that  they  have  departed  from  the  teachings  which 
the  Lord  has  given  them,  not  that ;  but  that  we  are  surrounded  by  the 
evils  of  the  world,  by  temptations,  by  the  sins  of  mankind,  those  things 
which  prevail  among  the  ungodly.  There  is  constant  need  of  warning, 
teaching  and  calling  upon  the  people  to  remember  the  promises 
the  Lord  has  made  unto  them ;  urging  them,  to  be  true  and  faithful 
in  all  things,  to  his  holy  word  that  none  may  go  astray,  nor  falter,  or 


* 


' '  EELDR  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH.  89 

be  overcome  and  trodden  down  and  be  cast  back  again  into  the  world, 
to  partake  of  the  sins  of  the  world  from  whence  they  came.  And  so  I 
feel  that  it  is  my  mission  to  cry  repentance  and  to  call  upon  the  people 
to  serve  the  Lord. 

THE-MOST  POTENT  FACTOR  FOR  PERMANENT  PEACE. 

We  have  heard  during-  this  conference  a  great  deal  in  regard  to 
the  establishment  of  peace.  We  long  for  the  day  when  Christ  shall 
come  and  his  kingdom  shall  be  established  in  all  the  earth,  when  he 
shall  set  up  his  government  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  All  of  these 
things  we  hope  and  pray  for,  as  we  sang  here  this  afternoon.  The 
hymn  that  we  sang  this  afternoon  expresses  my  sentiment : 

Come,  O  thou  King  of  kings — 

We've  waited  long  for  thee— 
With  healing  in  thy  wings, 

To  set  thy  people  free. 
Come,  thou  desire  of  nations,  come, 
Let  Israel  now  be  gathered  home. 

Come,  make  an  end  of  sin, 

And  cleanse  the  earth  by  fire, 
And  righteousness  bring  in, 

That  Saints  may  tune  the  lyre, 
With  songs  of  joy,  a  happier  strain, 
To  welcome  in  thy  peaceful  reign. 

And  this  I  pray  for  and  this  I  hope  for,  and  so  do  you.  Now, 
may  I  ask  you  a  question?  Do  you  know  what  is  the  greatest  power, 
the  most  potent  factor  in  all  the  world,  for  the  permanent  establish- 
ment of  peace  in  the  earth?  Having  asked  the  question  I  will  answer 
it,  at  least  I  will  express  my  view  jn  regard  to  it — not  saying  anything 
about  other  movements.  The  greatest  factor  in  all  the  world  is  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  that  is  in  the  possession  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Right  from  the  beginning  the  Lord  sent  out  the 
elders  into  the  world,  commanding  them  to  call  upon  the  people,  saying, 
Repent,  come  unto  Zion.  Believe  in  my  gospel  and  you  shall  have 
peace.  Peace  will  come,  of  course,  through  righteousness,  through 
justice,  through  the  mercy  of  God,  through  the  power  which  he  will 
grant  unto  us  by  which  our  hearts  will  be  touched  and  we  will  have 
l©ve  one  for  another.  Now  our  duty  is  to  declare  these  things  amon'g 
all  people,  call  upon  them  to  come  unto  Zion  where  the  standard  is  set 
up — the  standard  of  peace — and  to  receive  of  the  blessings  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord  and  the  influence  of  his  Holy  Spirit  which  is  here 
manifest.  And  I  want  to  tell  you  that  we  ourselves,  if  we  will  serve 
the  Lord,  have  wonderful  power  in  regard  to  the  establishment  of  peace 
in  the  world.  Now  we  are  willing  that  other  movements  in  this  direc- 
tion should  go  on.  We  are  in  favor  of  all  that  will  bring  peace  unto 
the  world ;  but  let  us  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  we,  Latter-day 


V 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Saints,  if  we  will  band  together,  and  stand  as  one  serving  the  Lord 
and  will  send  forth  the  word  of  eternal  life  among  the  nations,  will 
have  greater  power,  in  my  judgment,  for  the  establishment  of  peace 
in  the  world  than  any  other  force.  I  am  in  full  accord  with  the  idea 
that  has  been  expressed  that  the  Lord  is  using  many  agencies ;  his 
work  is  not  confined  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  he  has  called  many 
to  his  service  outside  of  the  Church  and  has  endowed  them  with  power, 
has  inspired  them  to  do  his  work.  All  the  great  discoveries,  the  inven- 
tions, the  great  things  that  have  taken  place  during  the  last  three  or 
four  decades  have  all  been  in  the  direction  of  bringing  to  pass  this 
reign  of  peace  and  righteousness  in  the  earth.  Do  these  men  give 
credit  to  the  Lord,  these  great  discoverers — men  who  invent  and  bring 
to  pass  the  Lord's  work  in  this  regard,  do  they  give  him  credit  ?  Not 
in  many  instances  ;  and  yet  the  Lord  is  using  all  of  these  agencies. 
However,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  let  us  lose  sight  of  the 
fact  that  we  are  a  power  in  the  earth  for  good  and  for  the  spread  of 
the  truth  and  the  establishment  of  peface  among  all  nations,  kindreds, 
tongues  and  peoples,  that  must  be  considered.  It  has  been  upwards  of 
eighty  years  that  this  gospel  has  been  preached.  It  has  gone  into 
many  lands.  The  people  have  been  warned,  not  as  fully,  I  grant  you, 
as  the  Lord  desires  that  they  should  be  warned.  Do  the  best  that  we 
can,  we  haven't  the  power  in  ourselves,  of  course,  without  the  help  of 
the  Lord,  to  carry  this  word  to  every  soul  and  to  establish  the  truth  as 
we  would  like  to  do  it  and  as  the  Lord  desires  it  to  be  done.  He  must 
call  other  agencies  and  put  them  to  use  to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes, 
but  our  mission  has  been  and  is,  "Repent  ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  God  is 
at  hand." 

We  must  continue  until  all  the  righteous  are  gathered  out,  until 
all  men  are  warned,  until  those  who  will  hear  shall  hear,  and  those  who 
will  not  hear  also  shall  hear,  for  the  Lord  has  declared  that  there  shall 
not  be  a.soul  that  shall  not  hear,  not  a  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated, 
for  his  word  will  go  forth,  whether  it  be  the  word  of  his  elders  or  by 
some  other  means,  it  mattereth  not,  but  in  his  due  time  he  shall  cut  short 
his  work  in  righteousness ;  he  shall  establish  his  truth  and  he  shall  come 
and  reign  upon  the  earth.  But  woe  unto  the  wicked,  woe  unto  the  un- 
godly, woe  unto  those  who  have  heard  the  word  and  rebel  against  it, 
for  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  he  shall  come  out  of  his  hiding  place 
and  take  vengeance  upon  all  those  who  turn  away  and  refuse  to 
hearken,  and  after  the  testimony  of  the  elders  shall  come  the  testimony 
of  earthquakes,  the  testimony  of  famine,  the  testimony  of  pestilence 
and  plague  which  shall  spread  forth.  Of  course,  that  does  not  prevent 
us  from  attempting  to  do  all  we  can  to  lessen  these  evils,  but  the  people 
will  bring  these  things  upon  their  heads,  themselves,  if  they  fail  to 
hearken  unto  the  words  of  the  elders  of  Israel.  I  will  read  to  you 
another  passage  of  scripture: 

Again  I  say,  hearken  ye  elders  of  my  Church,  whom  I  have  appointed; 
ye  are  not  sent  forth  to  be  taught,  but  to  teach'  the  children  of  men  the 
things  which  I  have  put  into  your  hands  by  the  power  of  my  Spirit; 


EELDR  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH. 


91 


And  ye  are  to  be  taught  from  on  high.  Sanctify  yourselves  and  ye 
shall  be  endowed  with  power,  that  ye  may  give  even  as  I  have  spoken. 

Hearken  ye,  for,  behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  nigh  at  hand. 

For  the  day  cometh  that  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven; 
the  heavens  shall  shake  and  the  earth  shall  tremible,  and  the  trump  of  God 
shall  sound  both  long  and  loud,  and  shall  say  to  the  sleeping  nations,  Ye 
saints  arise  and  live;  ye  sinners  stay  and  sleep  until  I  shall  call  again; 

Wherefore,  gird  up  your  loins  lest  ye  be  found  among  the  wicked. 

Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not.  Call  upon  the  nations  to  repent, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free,  saying,  prepare  yourselves  for 
the  great  day  of  the  Lord; 

For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up  my  voice  and  call  upon  you  to 
repent,  arid  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say  when  the  day  cometh  when  the 
thunders  shall  titter  their  voices  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  speaking  to 
the  ears  of  all  that  live,  saying,  Repent,  and  prepare  for  the  great  day  of 
the  Lord; 

Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings  shall  streak  forth  from  the  east 
unto  the  west,  and  shall  utter  forth  their  voices  unto  all  that  live,  and  make 
the  ears  of  all  tingle  that  hear,  saying  these  words,  Repent  ye,  for 
the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  come. 

And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying,  Hearken, 
O  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear  the  words  of  that  God  who  made  you. 

O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would  not? 

How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of 
thunderings,  and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings, .  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice  of 
famines  and  pestilences  of  every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump, 
and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long, 
and  by  the  voice  of  glory,  and  honor,  and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and 
would  have  saved  you  with  everlasting  salvation,  but  ye  would  not? 

Behold  the  day  has  come,  when  the  cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indigna- 
tion is  full. 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  these  are  the  words  of  the  Lord 
your  God. 

i 

Now  these  things  are  bound  to  come  if  the  nations  of  the  earth 
reject  the  counsel  of  God  against  themselves  and  turn  against  the 
Jruths  which  have  'been  uttered  from  the  heavens'.  The  word  has 
gone  forth  and  is  being  carried  forth  among  them  by  the  elders  of 
Israel.   Woe  unto  those  who  reject  it. 

As  it  was  stated  by  one  of  the  speakers  this  morning,  I  am  satisfied 
in  my  mind  that  peace  could  come  right  now  if  the  people  wanted  it. 
Certainly.  And  I  pray  that  they  will  want  it.  I  want  them  to  have 
it,  because  I  love  peace,  and  you  want  them  to  have  it  because  you  want 
peace,  and  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints  should  pray  for  peace  and  we 
should  live  in  peace  and  in  harmony  one  with  another  and  stand  united 
together  in  all  things  serving  the  Lord. 

A  PROMISE  TO  THE  REPENTANT. 

I  want  to  read  just  one  more  verse  from  another  scripture.  I 
would  like  to  have  the  Latter-day  Saints  read  this  whole  chapter.  This 
is  the  22nd  Chapter  of  1st  Nephi.  and  there  are  a  number  of  other 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


chapters  connected  with  this  that  are  of  great  import,  but  I  want  to 
read  this  one  verse,  the  28th:  "But,  behold,  all  nations,  kindreds, 
tongues  and  people  shall  dwell  safely  in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  if  it 
so  be  that  they  will  repent."  And  I  pray  that  they  will  repent.  I  want 
them  to  dwell  safely.  I  want  them  to  believe  in  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel,  who  came  into  the  world  and  atoned  for  our  sins,  for  the  sins 
of  all  mankind,  who  gave  unto  us  redemption  from  death,  who  has 
promised  unto  us  salvation  and  the  remission  of  our  sins  on  the  con- 
dition of  our  repentance. 

O,  I  wish  all  mankind  would  believe  in  him,  would  worship  him 
and  his  Father,  and  would  serve  the  Lord  our  God  in  the  name  of  the 
Son,  and  then  peace  would  come,  then  righteousness  would  prevail, 
then  the  Lord  could  establish  his  kingdom  upon  the  earth.  He  could 
do  it  now  if  all  would  repent,  but  when  he  gets  ready  to  do  it  and  should 
the  people  not  repent,  should  they  not  turn  unto  him,  then  shall  he 
come  forth  in  his  power  and  his  might,  as  he  has  declared  through  his 
holy  prophets ;  he  shall  take  vengeance  upon  the  ungodly  and  they  shall 
be  swept  off  from'  the  face  of  the  earth.  He  has  decreed  that  un- 
righteousness shall  not  reign,  that  the  wicked  shall  not  slay  the  right- 
eous, but  that  peace  shall  come,  that  his  kingdom  shall  be  established, 
that  this  earth  shall  be  made  fit  as  an  abiding  place  for  all  who  are  just 
and  true,  for  those  who  love  righteousness.  That  day  is  coming  and 
I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  even  now  at  the  door,  but  I 
do  not  know  what  may  take  place  before  the  door  is  opened;  but  I 
know  this'  that  it  is  timely  for  us  to  repent,  if  we  need  repentance,  and 
turn  unto  the  Lord.  Remember  him,  forsake  the  things  of  Babylon 
and  leave  them  unto  those  who  love  unrighteousness,  and  let  us  cleanse 
ourselves  and  set  our  houses  in  order.  That  is  the  will  of  the  Lord. 
That  has  been  his  will  from  the  beginning  since  his  kingdom  was  set 
up,  and  he  desires  it  now,  and  woe  unto  him  who  will  not  repent  who 
_  is  in  Zion,  for  the  Lord  says  that  he  will  cleanse  Zion  and  all  things 
that  offend  shall  be  removed.  When  the  time  comes,  when  it  is  time 
for  Zion  to  be  cleansed,  then  that  which  offends,  that  which  is  unjust, 
that  which  is  untrue,  that  which  is  false,  that  which  breathes  the  spirit 
of  contention  and  strife  shall  be  removed,  and  Zion  shall  be  redeemed, 
and  the  Lord  shall  watch  over  her,  shall  guide  her,  shall  direct  her  and 
shall  establish  her  and  she  shall  never  again  be  destroyed  and  her  power 
shall  not  be  given  to  other  people.    That  I  rejoice  in. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  serve  the  Lord,  let  us  keep 
his  comandments,  let  us  be  true,  remember  the  things  which  the 
prophets  have  said.  Follow  the  instructions  they  have  given  unto 
us.  Heed  the  warning  that  has  been  declared  by  revelation  through  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  both  now  and  in  times  past  and  all  will  be  well 
with  us.  Let  us  not  sit  down  and  feel  in  our  hearts  that  all  is  well,  that 
we  can  take  our  ease  in  Zion,  that  peace  is  here,  that  there  is  to  be  no 
more  trouble,  no  more  contention,  no  more  strife  no  more  war  in  the 
world.   That  we  can  not  do  in  justice,  but  we  must  serve  the  Lord  and 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


93 


we  must  keep  his  commandments,  we  must  walk  righteously  before 
him  as  we  have  never  done  it  before,  and  if  we  do  not,  then  we  shall  be 
cut  off  from  among  the  people  and  that  would  be  a  calamity.  O,  I  pray 
that  we  will  hearken,  and  that  we  will  be  true  and  faithful  and  stand  in 
holy  places,  as  we  have  been  commanded  to  do,  while  the  wrath  of  the 
Lord  our  God  passes  over  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  this-  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

August  Glismeyer  sang  a  sacred  solo:  "O  Lord,  What  is  man?" 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

To  obviate  unnecessary  repetition  I  venture  to  say  at  the  outset 
that  I  find  myself  in  hearty  accord  with  the  utterances  made  by  the 
First  Presidency  and  by  my  brethren  and  associates  in  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve, — and  this  without  reservations.  I  commend  to  you  for 
remembrance,  frequent  recollection,  practice  and  application,  all  that 
has  been  said,  all  that  has  been  set  forth  before  you  as  the  rule  and 
the  law  of  God  and  of  the  Church  in  regard  to  obedience  to  law,  the 
instructions  and  counsel  that  have  been  given  us  concerning  our  specific 
duties  as  individuals,  as  members  of  families,  as  members  of  the 
Church,  and  as  citizens  of  this  great  nation  of  promise  and  destiny. 

—  TEMPORARY  ISOLATION  OF  PEOPLES. 

As  my  mind  runs  back  over  the  dealings  of  God  with  his  people 
in  different  ages,  I  am  struck  with  the  thought  that  at  times  he  has 
wisely  separated  and  isolated  a  part  of  his  family  in  the  flesh  for 
specific  purposes. 

i 

Abraham's  migration. 

You  will  remember  that  the  word  came  to  Abram,  before  he 
had  been  honored  with  that  title  of  majesty  among  men,  Abraham, 
by  way  of  command  specific  and  imperative :  Get  thee  out,  get  thee 
out  from  the  land  of  thy  fathers,  get  thee  out  from  these  idolaters, 
and  go  into  the  land  that  I  will  show  thee.  And  the  Lord  made  coven- 
ant with  Abraham  that  his  posterity,  should  be  numerous  and  withal 
blessed,  that  they  should  constitute  a  chosen  and  a  covenant  people. 
Blessings  unnumbered  and  indescribable  in  their  fulness,  so  far  as 
man's  powers  of  description  go,  were  listed,  if  not  depicted,  all  con--- 
ditioned  upon  compliance  with  the  terms  of  their  covenant  or  con- 
tract, and,  like  all  other  blessings  promised  of  God,  strictly  predicated 
upon  obedience  on  their  part. 

Permit  a  moment's  digression.  The  test  of  obedience  c.onstitutes 
the  very  purpose  of  our  being  upon  earth — the  object  in  view  in  the 
creation  of  the  earth  as  an  abode  for  man,  the  great  object  that  the 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  had  in  peopling  the  earth.  Do  you  remember  his  words  to  Abra- 
ham after  the  decree  had  been  made  plain  that  there  should  be  formed 
an  earth  upon  which  those  then  unembodied  spirits  should  dwell? 
The  explanation  was  in  part  given:  "And  we  will  prove  them  here- 
with to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God 
shall  command  them."  That  is  the  sum  total  of  the  test  of  the  examin- 
ation under  which  every  mortal  has  to  pass  in  this  great  university  of 
life.  The  Israel  of  old  were"  required  to  pass  thatfiest,  and  promises 
were  made  unto  them  provided  they  passed  it  successfully. 

Israel's  isolation  in  egypt. 

After  a  while  the  descendants  of  Abraham  were  carried  down 
into  Egypt,  for  the  Lord  turned  and  over-turned  even  the  unfilial  and 
unbrotherly  conduct  of  Joseph's  brethren  to  that  end,  and  there  the 
people  remained  segregated  and  isolated  in  large  part,  dwelling  in  a 
part  of  the  land  by  themselves  and  kept  from  any  widespread  inter- 
mingling by  marriage  with  the  Egyptians  because  of  the  caste  prejudice 
against  them.  They  came  to  be  slaves  and  bondsmen,  and  when  the 
time  came  that  was  found  to  be  right  in  the  unerring  mind  of  God, 
Israel  was  led  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt  and  out  from  the  house  of 
bondage  by  the  outstretched  hand  of  power.  But  they  were  even  more 
completely  isolated  for  four  decades  after  that  there  in  the  wilderness, 
wandering  back  and  forth,  until  the  generation  that  had  imbibed  the 
paganism  of  Egypt  had  passed  away  and,  with  the  exception  of  two 
individuals,  a  new  generation  had  arisen  and  these  were  led  into  the 
land  of  promise,  and  .specific  laws  and  commandments  were  given 
them  that  they  should  keep  .themselves  apart  from  the  abominations 
of  the  other  nations  who  were  idolaters  and  pagans. 

In  certain  specific  respects  Israel  was  distinguished  from  all  other 
nations  of  that  time.  In  one  matter  for  example,  they  were  Sabbath 
observers,  and  they  were  the  only  nation  under  heaven  that  recognized 
the  Sabbath;  and  that  observance  was  a  sign  of  distinction  by  which 
they  were  known.  In  the  next  place  they  were  Jehovah  worshipers, 
the  only  people  known  who  worshiped  other  than  idols.  They  wor- 
shiped the  true  and  the  living  God  and  the  Lord  kept  them,  I  was 
about  to  say  so  far  as  he  was  able,  for  they  frustrated  his  designs  and 
his  plans  in  many  respects,  but  he, kept  them  in  a  measure  apart,  iso- 
lated, separate  from  the  rest  of  the  nations  in  order  that  they  might 
be  more  fully  trained  in  the  ways  of  God.  But  mark  you,  that  isola- 
tion had  an  end  so  far  as  physical  segregation  was  concerned-  As 
was  predicted  and  foretold,  the  time  of  dispersion  came  when  those 
people  were  scattered  as  the  dust  that  is  blown  before  the  wind, 
sifted  as  corn  is  sifted  in  a  sieve.  It  was  not  the  plan  of  God  that 
they  should  remain  forever  isolated,  for  it  was  his  intent  that  through 
them  should  the  name  of  the  living  God  be  made  known  throughout 
the  world. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


95 


LEHl's  COLONY  SEQUESTERED  ON  THE  WESTERN  CONTINENT. 

Come  down  a  little  later  in  history,  si*c  hundred  years  before 
the  meridian  of  time,  in  the  reign  of  Zedekiah,  a  body  of  Israelites  was 
led  away  by  the  power  of  God  and  by  direct  intervention  of  divine 
agency  brought  across  the  great  waters  and  established  upon  this 
then  unknown  continent,  isolated  from  the  rest  of  the  world.  The 
purpose  of  that  separation,  segregation,  isolation  and  hiding  was  made 
plain.  It  provided  a  means  whereby  that  part  of  the  House  of  Israel 
should  serve  the  Lord  their  God  with  purity  and  sincerity,  so  long 
as  they  would  -remain  obedient.  They  were  to  be  uncontaminated  by 
the  fallacies  of  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  their  minds  unpoisoned  by  the 
false  doctrine  of  academical  rabbis;  they  were  led  away  so  that  they 
could  be  taught  by  the  Teacher  of  teachers.  Here  they  were  kept  and 
their  history  was  a  checkered  one,  but  they  were  held  together  long 
enough  to  become  a  distinct  unit,  even  as  the  Jews  had  been.  For  in 
spite  of  the  separation  of  the  Jews,  notwithstanding  their  world-wide 
dispersion,  they  do  constitute  a  distinct  unit  in  the  family  of  man- 
kind and  they  have  preserved  that  segregation,  which  is  other  than 
physical  isolation.  It  is  true  that  the  Nephi'tes  were  exterminated  as 
a  nation,  but  part  of  the  posterity  of  Lehi  has  continued  down  to  the 
present  day. 

What  was  the  purpose  of  it  all — of  that  segregation  of  Lehi  and 
his  family  and  the  establishment  of  those  people  upon  this  the  western 
continent?  The  prime  purpose  was  to  provide  an  independent  witness 
of  the  Christ.  The  Father  would  have  more  than  the  testimony  of 
Judea  and  Galilee  and  the  lands  round  about  concerning  his  Well  Be- 
loved Son,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the  race.  Therefore  Lehi 
and  his  people  were  brought  here,  were  taught  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord 
by  direct  revelation  through  the  mouths  of  holy  prophets.  Part  of  the 
Lord's  dealings  has  been  written,  and  in  a  miraculous  manner  the 
record  has  been  brought  forth  and  given  to  the  world.  A  new  witness 
of  the  Christ !  People  who  knew  nothing  except  as  they  did  read 
what  was  then  to  them  ancient  history,  that  of  Judea,  of  Galilee,  of 
Jerusalem,  knew  nothing,  except  as  they  were  taught  by  revelation ; 
and  the  revelation  to  them  was  specific  and  direct.  Through  their 
prophets  they  learned  of  the  earthly  life  of  Christ,  his  birth,  his  min- 
istry during  the  three  short  years,  and  his  crucifixion.  Later  they 
were  blessed  by  his  personal  visitation  among  them,  and  they  have 
borne  witness  to  him  as  the  Savior,  as  the  Redeemer ;  and  we  have  an 
entirely  independent  body  of  Scripture  .which  in  no  respects  is  at 
variance  with  the  true  part  of  the  record  that  we  find  in  the  Holy 
Bible. 

THE  SEPARATISTS. 

Prior  to  a  great  event,  which  had  been  foretold  by  ancient  prophets 
—the  coming  of  a  man  from  among  the  Gentiles  across  the  great  waters 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  discovering  this  continent — there  was  another  segregation  upon 
a  smaller  scale,  and  this  on  the  Eastern  Continent.'  Many  who  had 
suffered  because  of  their  religious  beliefs  separated  themselves;  some 
of  them  fled  •  from  England .  to  Holland.  They  came  to  be  known 
specifically  as  Separatists.  Then,  following  that  man  of  God — Colum- 
bus— for  he  was  carrying  out  a  divine  purpose,  the  discoverer  of  the 
western  world,  came  those  other  Gentiles  of  whom  we  read ;  and  they 
were  brought  to  this  land  and  here  they  found  the  remnant  of  Lehi's 
posterity  who  had  formerly  been  established  upon  this  continent. 

AMERICAN  NATION  ONCE  ISOLATED  NOW  THE  CHIEF  OF  MANY  NATIONS. 

Now,  hastening  over  centuries,  we  come  to  the  time  when  an 
important  segregation  took  place  upon  this  continent.  After  the  Church 
had  been  established  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Lord  led  his  people  out,  and  others  came  from  beyond  the 
seas  to  join  them.  Because  of  persecution  they  were  driven,  liter- 
ally driven,  beyond  the  frontiers  of  what  was  then  the  United  States. 
They  came  here  as  a  body,  settled  in  this  part  of  the  desert,  their  in- 
spired leader  utterly  putting  aside  every  suggestion  that  they  should 
go  on  to  the  green  pastures  and  the  fat  fields  about  the  coast.  Can 
you  imagine  what  the  result  would  be  today  had  Brigham  Young 
listened  to  the  advice  of  those  men,  wise  in  their  own  knowledge? 
There  never  would  have  been,  except  the  Lord  had  brought  it  about 
in  another  way,  a  unit  such  as  this  Church  presents.  Before  the 
pioneers  and  those  who  came  immediately  after  them  could  have  been 
trained  in  the  ways  of  God,  their  lands  would  have  been  invaded  and 
they  would  again  have  become  one  with  the  people  of  the  world.  But 
the  Lord  kept  them  in  this  uninviting  place,  of  which  other  people  were 
mostly  afraid  until  they,  with  whom  were  our  worthy  sires  and  moth- 
ers and  grandparents,  had  been  sufficiently  trained  to  know  that  they 
had  something  in  common  which  the  rest  of  the  world  had  not.  But 
that  physical  segregation,  isolation,  separation  was  of  comparatively 
short  duration.  When  the  Lord  thought  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
had  learned  the  lesson,  then  he  permitted  others  to  come.  It  was  not 
his  intention  to  shut  his  people  up  within  the  walls  of  a  building  or 
within  these  valleys  of  the  eternal  hills,  keeping  them  perpetually 
aloof  from  all  the  temptations  of  the  world,  for  they  had  to  be  tried. 
In  due  time  means  of  steam  transportation  were  established  and  mul- 
titudes came,  and  have  since  been  coming  by  the  hosts  every  year, 
mingling  with  this  people  who  are  the  covenant  people  of  the  last 
days.  But  in  spite  of  this  termination  of  physical  separation,  the 
people  are  a  unit  wherever  you  find  them  throughout  the  world.  They 
are  recognized  by  their  distinctive  characteristics. 

PREDICTIONS  CONCERNING  AMERICA  AND  HER  PEOPLE. 

And  now  turn  to  the  nation  as  a  whole,  the  nation  which  I  desig- 
nated— not  by  any  means  a  designation  original  with  me — as  a  nation 
of  promise  and  destiny.    As  it  grew  it  was  isolated,  isolated  by  the 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


97 


deep  on  the  east  and  the  deep  on  the  west ;  and  we  "have  boasted  of  our 
isolation,  but  that,  like  every  other  instance  of  segregation  brought 
about  by  the  hand  of  God,  was  not  intended  to  be  perpetual.  -As  a 
Church  we  are  sending  out,  as  we  have  been  sending  out  from  the 
first,  men  by  the  hundred  as  we  could,  by  the  thousand  when  it  was 
possible,  by  the  score  when  that  was  the  limit  of  our  ability,  or  by 
ones  and  twos,  men,  and  in  late  years  women,  sending  them  out  into 
the  world.  Does  that  look  like  perpetual  isolation,  physically  speak- 
ing? And  in  the  unfolding  purposes  of  God  the  isolation  of  the  nation 
has  been  brought  to  an  end.  Now  no  longer  does  the  deep  shut  us 
off  from  other  continents  as  once  it  did.  We  can  speak  on  this  side  and 
be  heard  on  the  other  with  no  appreciable  lapse  of  time.  Messages  are 
sent  to  us  from  Europe  and  we  read  the  published  account  here  even, 
according  to  our  reckoning  of  time,  before  the  hour  at  which  the 
events  occur.  No,  no  it  was  not  intended  that  this  nation  should  be 
forever  shut  off  from  the  rest  of  the  world.  If  we  have  anything 
better  than  the  other  nations  have  let  us  as  Americans  give  it  that  the 
world  may  be  made  the  better  for  it.^  That  is  the  spirit  of  "Mormon" 
propaganda,  that  is  the  spirit  of  our  missionary  service,  and  it  will  be 
the  spirit  of  the  service  that  this  nation  shall  render  to  the  rest  of  the 
world.  • 

In  line  with  the  excellent  precedent  set  by  my  brethren,  who  have 
given  you  scripture  after  scripture,  I  desire  to  add  another  and  I  pray 
you  read  it  more  deliberately  and  more  studiously  than  you  may  be 
able  to  listen  to  it  in  the  brief  time  that  I  can  give  to  its  consideration. 
You  may  easily  remember  it.  It  is  the  first  chapter  of  the  Second  Book 
of  Nephi.  Lehi,  the  prophet,  stricken  with  years,  trembling  in  limb 
and  knowing  that  his  days  in  the  flesh  had  been  numbered  and  that 
he  was  so_on  to  follow  the  way  of  his  fathers,  spoke  unto  his  posterity 
who  had  then  become  numerous,  respecting  this  particular  land,  the 
land  of  promise,  the  land  of  Zion,  and  he  said  unto  them : 

Notwithstanding  our  afflictions,  we  have  obtained  a  land  of  promise, 
a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  a  land  which  the  Lord  God 
hath  covenanted  with  me  should  be  a  land  for  the  inheritance  of  my  seed. 
Yea,  the  Lord  hath  covenanted  this  land  unto  me,  and  to  my  children  for 
ever;  and  also  all  those  who  should  be  led  out  of  other  countries 
by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

Mark  you,  I  pray,  the  prophet  knew  that  it  was  not  to  be  a  sel- 
fish inheritance,  it  was  not  to  be  kept  forever  solely  for  the  habitation 
of  his  lineal  descendants.  It  was  to  be  for  alb  those  who  were  then 
to  be  led  out  from  other  countries  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

Wherefore,  I,  Lehi,  prophesy  according  to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit 
which  is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none  come  into  this  land,  save  they  shall  be 
brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring. 
And  if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  commandments 
which  he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them;  wherefore, 
they  shall  never  be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall  abound,  cursed  shall  be  the  land  for  their 
sakes;  but  unto  the  righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  for  ever. 

And  behold,  it  is  wisdom  that  this  land  should  be  kept  as  yet  from 
the  knowledge  of  other  nations;  for  behold,  many  nations  would  overrun 
the  land,  that  there  would  be.  no  place  for  an  inheritance. 

But  other  nations  were  to  come,  not  as  nations,  but  as  members 
of  nations ;  and  they  have  come  and  are  coming  and  shall  come,  le.d 
hither  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord.  What,  you  say,  these  undesirable  ele- 
ments? Well,  they  are  permitted  to  be  here  that  the  people  may  be 
tried  and  tested  and  given  the  experience  which  is  so  necessary  to' 
make  them  what  the  Lord  intends  that  they  shall  be.  And  so  let  us 
not  fear  that  our  nation  is  going  to  lose  its  identity,  or  is  going  to 
lose  its  sovereignty  or  is  going  to  be  overwhelmed  or  overpowered 
by  other  nations.  It  can  not  be  so  save  through  iniquity.  Well,  you 
may  say,  are  not  the  people  of  this  nation  iniquitous?  It  is  true  that 
sin  befouls  and  defiles  the  land ;  but  in  spite  of*  it,  I  know  not  where 
you  will  find  a  nation  with  higher  ideals  or  with  plainer  purposes  to 
uphold  the  institutions  that  God  has  established  for  the  government 
and  freedom  of  men.  The  Constitution  of  this  land  is  the  pattern 
after  which  the  organic  laws  of  other  nations  shall  be  framed,  and 
thus  has  been  already  fulfilled  in  part  the  prophecy  that  out  of  Zion 
shall  go  forth  the  law ! 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  FEW  BUT  POWERFUL  THROUGH  DIVINE  APPOINTMENT 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  a  power  in  the  world.  The 
power  of  the  priesthood  is  felt.  What  hath  God  wrought  in  his  deal- 
ings with  his  people?  Do  you  take  time  to  consider  how  weak  we 
are  numerically  speaking  and  yet  how  mighty  we  are  in  the  strength 
of  God.  Look  at  the  statistical  compilations  of  churches  that  are  pub- 
lished from  time  to  time,  summaries  for  the  entire  world  or  for  this 
nation.  Did  you  ever  see  there  itemized  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  even  under  its  nickname,  "Mormon  Church?" 
No,  we  are  put  in  with  "other  small  denominations"  and  so  it  is 
throughout  the  world.  May  I  take  time  to  relate  an  incident  which  has 
been  a  means  of  encouragement  to  me? 

A  little  over  a  year  ago,  I  met  by  invitation  in  the  east  the  editor 
of  one  of  the  most  influential  newspapers.  Aside  from  his  journalistic 
career  he  is  known  for  achievements  in  literature.  I  was  appointed 
to  deliver  an  announced  address,  besides  the  expectation  of  speaking 
at  other  meetings  of  our  conference  in  that  city,  the  city  of  Boston, 
and  the  editor  of  this  journal,  in  speaking  with  me  beforehand,  asked 
me  some  questions  which  I  was  pleased  to  answer.  In  an  ordinary 
way  he  asked :  "Will  you  please  tell  me  what  is  about  the  total  mem- 
bership of  your  great  church?" 

And  I  answered  him  promptly :  "Approximately  500,000."  "But," 
he  said,  "I  don't  mean  here  in  Massachusetts  or  in  New  England ;  I 
mean  what  is  the  total  membership?"    "I  have  told  you,  Sir,  about 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


99 


half  a  million."  "But,  I  mean,"  said  he,  "all  of  you  throughout  the 
world."  "I  have  the  same  answer,  approximately  500,000."  He  sat 
back  in  his  chair  and  was  lost  in  thought  for  a  moment.  He  said: 
"Am  I  to  understand  you,  literally  that,  this  church  which  has  made 
itself  so  well  known,"  and  he  made  other  remarks  of  a  descriptive 
nature,  "numbers  not  more  than  a  half  million  souls?"  "It  is  true," 
said  I.  And  then  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  upon  that  man  so  that 
he  had  to  testify  of  the  miracle  that  God  had  wrought.  Unconsciously 
he  praised  the  Lord,  for  he  remarked  with  all  seriousness  and  sincerity : 
"The  hand  of  the  Lord  is  in  it."  Then  he  added :  "You  may  have  all 
the  space  you  need  in  our  paper  to  announce  your  conference  and  for 
tfie  publication  of  the  proceedings." 

In  another  city  I  had  an  experience  very  similar  in  some  respects. 
It  was  in  Baltimore.  I  arrived  a  couple  of  days  ahead  of  the  time  fixed 
for  our  conference  and'  found  that  I  had  been  advertized  to  deliver 
a  specific  address  there.  I  met  the  editor  of  two  papers,  two  papers 
under  one  editorial  management,  and  he,  like  the  other  journalistic 
gentleman  to  whom  I  referred,  asked  questions  concerning  our  strength 
and  our  numbers.  He  was  a  little  doubtful  as  to  whether  a  reporter 
could  be  spared  to  attend  our  meetings  for  their  force  had  been  cut 
down  by  the  war  demands,  but  at  last  he  said :  "What  is  the  size  of 
your  congregation  here  in  Baltimore  ?"  I  said :  "Twenty-seven." 
"Twenty-seven  what?"  "Twenty-seven  souls,  several  of  them  chil- 
dren." "What,  you  have  only  twenty-seven?"  "That  is  all  according 
to  the  conference  president's  report,  and  if  it  would  interest  you,  Sir, 
I  can  furnish  you,  with  their  names  and  addresses."  "Twenty-seven," 
he  said.  Now  perhaps  you  would  naturally  expect  that  his  next 
remark  would  be :  Why,  we  can  not  spare  a  reporter  to  look  after 
a  body  of  twenty-seven;  we  have  no  space  in  our  paper  for  such  a 
little  thing  as  you  are.  But  no,  no,  with  deep  seriousness  upon  his 
face  he-  said :  "We  will  send  a  reporter  and  the  paper  will  give  the 
space  you,  need." 

So  have  I  seen  it  time  and  time  again.  We  can't  boast  of  our 
numbers,  we  can't  boast  of  our  own  strength,  but  we  know  that  the 
strength  of  the  living  God  is  with  this  people,  whether  they  be  gath- 
ered or  yet  scattered,  and  his  purposes  concerning  the  Church  estab- 
lished upon  this  land,  the  only  land  whose  soil  was  suitable  to  the 
planting  of  such  seed  at  the  time  of  its  establishment,  shall  not  fail. 
He  will  see  to  it,  for  he  has  sworn  so  to  do,  that  the  Church  shall  not 
be  overthrown.  And  as  with  the  Church  so  with  the  nation  of  which  we 
form  a  part.  Aye,  verily  is  the  Lord  working  outside  as  well  as  within 
the  Church,  and  other  men  than  those  who  have  gone  down  into  the 
waters  of  baptism  are  his  servants,  working  along  specific  lines.  Re- 
member, beside  the  relative  few,  shall  I  say,  beside  those  who  shall  at- 
.  tain  salvation,  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  God,  we  have  to 
look  after  those  other  hosts  who  shall  attain  only  the  terrestrial  glory. 
Their  interests  we  must  have  at  heart,  and  the  interests  of  others,  of  all 
mankind,  for  our  mission  is  to    preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


throughout  the  world  and  to  warn  the  world  by  the  authority  and 
•  power  of  the  holy  priesthood  which  the  Lord  has  laid  upon  us.   I  pray 
for  greater  effectiveness  in  this  labor  and  in  the  discharge  of  this  high 
commission,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.,  Amen. 

"The  Plains  of  Peace,"  a  solo,  was  sung  by  Fern  Batley. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

A  month  ago  I  was  traveling  in  the  green  hills  of  New  England.  As 
I  rode  through  that  great  country  I  was  deeply  interested  and  im- 
pressed with  the  historical  scenes  and  with  the  points  of  much  interest, 
to  every  American. 

A  VISIT  TO  THE  EAST. 

I  remembered,  as  I  traveled  around  near  Boston,  something  of  the 
history  of  the  settlement  of  that  country.  I  recalled  that  about  three 
hundred  years  ago  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  landed  at  Plymouth,  driven 
there  by  persecutions,  and  by  intolerance,  which  they  found  to  exist 
in  the  old  world.  I  remembered  with  what  hardship  and  self-sacrifice 
they  had  planted  themselves  in  that  part  which  is  now  the  old  part  of 
the  new  world.  There  was  recalled  vividly  to  my  mind  and  imagina- 
tion, some  of  the  circumstances  attendant  upon  the  colonization  of  this 
new  world  by  those  who  came  here  to  find  liberty  and  freedom.  I  had 
the  opportunity  of  passing  over  the  ground  that  was  traversed,  not  only 
by  the  early  Pilgrim  fathers,  but  by  those  who  were  instrumental  in 
initiating  this  great  government  that  now  prevails  among  the  states  of 
the  Union.  I  stood  upon  Lexington  Green  where,  I  knew,  more  than 
a  century  arid  a  half  ago,  those  Minute  Men  had  stood  to  defend  their 
rights  and  to  give  their  lives  for  the  principles  of  liberty  and  freedom, 
which  they  regarded  as  so  important  and  so  dear  to  them  and  to  their 
people.  As  I  stood  upon  this  historic  spot  I  thought  something  of  the 
conditions  which  then  prevailed  as  contrasted  with  the  conditions 
which  now  prevail. 

MOMENTOUS  PROBLEMS  BEFORE  THE  NATION. 

I  was  in  attendance  upon  the  sessions  of  the  American  Bar  Asso- 
ciation in  Boston,  when  there  were  called  to  the  attention  of  those  pres- 
ent, many  of  the  important  problems  which  now  confront  the  people. 
Men  of  prominence,  men  who  have  given  themselves  over  to  thought 
and  study,  admitted  the  perplexity  of  the  situation.  They  confessed 
that  the  very  foundations  of  civilization  were  threatened.  They  were 
willing  to  admit  that  the  problems  now  confronting  the  nation  and  • 
the  people  were  well-nigh  beyond  the  power  and  wisdom  of  men  to 
solve. 

While  I  was  in  the  New  England  states  the  people  of  Boston 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


101 


were  confronted  with  one  of  the  most,  if  not  the  most,  sorry  specta- 
cle that  has  arisen  in  this  nation  during  its  history.  During  that  period 
the  men  who  were  sworn  to  enforce  the  law  in  that  great  American 
city  went  on  strike,  disregarding  their  oaths  of  office.  They  refused 
to  serve,  and  they  turned  the  city  over  to>  the  whims  .and  caprices  and 
outrages  of  mobs  and  mob  violence.  The  commonwealth  of  Massa- 
chusetts, which  has  been  the  very  cradle  of  American  liberty,  from 
which  have  come  many  of  the  best  parts  of  the  Constitution,  many 
of  the  best  laws  that  have  been  formulated,  was  disgraced  by  this 
outrage  and  by  this  failure  of  men  to  adhere  to  their  oaths,  to  keep 
their  covenants  and  to  enforce  the  law.  Everywhere  men  who  stud- 
ied public  conditions  were  disturbed.  The  honorable  Elihu  Root, 
speaking  with  reference  to  this  occasion,  said  in  substance,  that  it  be- 
tokened a  departure  from  American  institutions  and  from  the  ob- 
servance of  law,  that  threatened  the  very  foundations  of  our  civiliza- 
tion. Other  men  of  prominence  and  of  national  repute  considered 
it  in  like  manner. 

Before  I  had  reached  New  York  City  I  learned,  as  we  all  know, 
that  great  forces  were  there  on  strike,  and  as  I  came  back  through  the 
big  cities  of  the  country,  having  occasion  to  visit  manufacturing  and 
other  institutions,  I  learned  that  the  whole  business  world  was  up- 
set, disturbed,  unable  with  any  degree  of  certainty  whatever  to  pre- 
dict as  to  the  future,  and  wholly  without  any  feeling  of  security  as 
to  that  which  might  transpire.  I  recall  going  into  one  manufacturing 
establishment,  consulting  with  the  president  of  the  company,  and  hear- 
ing him  say  that  within  the  past  six  months  his  institution  had  been 
affected,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  more  than  twenty-four  strikes.  It 
is  needless  to  attempt  to  point  out  more  of  such  difficulties  and  prob- 
lems which  confront  the  people. 

HOW  SHALL  WE  SOLVE  THESE  PROBLEMS? 

We  have  passed  through  a  great  war;  we  have  met  the  prob- 
lems and  the  difficulties  of  that  war,  but  I  venture  that  any  thought- 
ful man  will  be  willing  to  admit  that  the  problems  which  confront  our 
people,  after  the  war,  are  equally  serious  and  important  to  those 
which  came  to  us  during  the  war.  How  are  we  going  to  meet  these 
situations?  What  are  we  going  to  do  here  in  America — this  chosen 
land,  of  which  you  have  heard  many  things  said  during  the  sessions 
of  this  conference?  How  are  we  going  to  preserve  this  land  for  the 
pure  in  heart?  How  may  it  be  maintained  as  the  land  of  Zion?  How 
will  it  be  possible  that  it  shall  live  to  its  traditions  and  that  it  shall 
preserve  the  high  principles  of  liberty  and  justice  and  equity  upon 
which  it  has  been  founded  ?  These  are  among  the  questions  that  give 
us  concern  at  this  hour.  Not  only  do  they  concern  us  as  citizens  of 
this  great  country,  but  they  concern  the  whole  world,  because  the 
whole  world  has  come  to  look  to  this  land,  to  foster  the  spirit  of  lib- 
erty and  the  principles  and  the  cause  which  underly  freedom  and  lib- 
erty among  humanity. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


REASONS  FOR  TURMOIL,  DISLOYALTY  AND  UNREST. 

As  we  give  consideration  to  these  great  questions  we  are  forced, 
I  think,  to  confess  that  the  great  statesmen  of  the  world  have  not 
been  able  to  find  the  remedies  and  have  not  been  able  to  solve  the 
problems.  I  believe  that  the  conditions  which  we  see  prevalent  in 
the  country  today  are  a  natural  and  logical  outgrowth  of  much  that 
has  prevailed  in  our  systems  of  education,  in  our  systems  of  ethics, 
and  in  the  very  manner  in  which  the  affairs  of  this  country  have,  from 
time  to  time,  been  carried  on.  Throughout  the  past  half  century  at 
least,  our  educational  processes  have  been  largely,  if  not  entirely  "de- 
void of  anything  pertaining  to  the  divine,  of  anything  pertaining  to 
the  spiritual,  or  anything  pertaining  to  the  truely  religious.  There 
has  been  a  studied  effort  on  the  part  of  those  who  have  controlled 
the  educational  systems  of  the  day,  to-  avoid  even  the  appearance  of 
religion  in  any  way,  shape  or  form.  I  take  it  that  there  has  come,  as 
a  natural  consequence,  from  that  kind  of  education,  a  total  disregard 
for  the  religious  in  man's  life.  There  has  come  an  absolute  disre- 
gard and  disrespect  for  things  divine.  God  has  been  left  out  of  con- 
sideration; the  methods  of  men  alone  have  prevailed,  and  everywhere 
and  under  all  conditions  the  things  that  have  pertained  to  this  world, 
the  things  that  have  pertained  to  our  temporal  life  have  been  made 
paramount  and  have  predominated  over  the  things  that  have  pertained 
to  our  souls  and  the  welfare  of  our  souls.  In  our  politics, — I  speak  not 
of  one  party  but  of  all  of  the  great  parties,  there  has  grown  up  such 
a  partisanship,  such  a  bias,  such  a  hatred,  between  those  who  espouse 
different  causes,  that  things  have  been  said,  campaigns  have  been 
conducted  in  such  a  way  and  manner  as  to  do  away  with,  rather  than 
to  foster,  the  true  spirit  of  national  patriotism.  Men  and  women  who 
have  belonged  to  political  parties  have  been  led  to  think  that  the  great 
thing  to  be  accomplished,  the  great  end  to  be  achieved,  is  the  domin- 
ance of  their  own  ideas,  is  the  success  of  their  own  party,  rather  than 
the  great  welfare  and  common  good  of  all.  Indeed  so  much  of  antag- 
onism, so  much  of  bias  and  envy  and  hatred  have  been  engendered 
that  I  am  one  of  those  who  believe  that  this  has  been  largely  responsi- 
ble for  some  of  the  great  national  crimes.  There  has  come  to  be  a 
total  disregard  for  those  in  authority.  There  has  grown  up  a  dis- 
respect for  law,  that,  in  my  judgment,  has  been  the  consequence  of 
the  kind  of  education,  political  and  otherwise,  that  our  people  in 
this  country  have  had. 

We  as  a  people  believe  in  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law.  We 
recognize  the  absolute  necessity  of  upholding  the  fundamental  laws 
of  our  land  if  progress,  if  advancement,  if  the  integrity  of  the  nation 
itself  are  to  be  maintained.  The  evils  of  which  society  now  most 
complains  are  the  evils  that  result  from  the  failure  on  the  part  of  men 
to  consider  that  they  have  any  obligation  to  the  law.  They  are  a  law 
unto  themselves,  as, was  pointed  out  by  Brother  McKay.    Their  cov- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


103 


enants,  their  compacts,  their  contracts  are  worthless.  They  keep  them 
only  when  it  is  expedient  to  keep  them.  They  subserve  only  their 
selfish  interests.  They  have  not  been  taught  the  fundamental  neces- 
sity of  obedience,  to  preserve  not  only  the  law  of  God,  but  the  law  of 
men.  They  have  not  been  taught  respect  for  person  or  property ;  and 
such  respect  as  has  been  yielded,  in  many  cases,  has  only  been  the 
respect  that  has  been  enforced  by  external  processes.  There  can  never 
be  a  great  citizenship  that  comes  from  the  mere  force,  external  force 
of  law.  You  cannot  superimpose  the  duties  of  citizenship  in  order  to 
make  a  great  people.  The  obligations  of  citizenship,  the  love  of 
country  and  patriotism  must  come  from  within  and  not  be  imposed 
from  without.  Therefore,  as  I  see  it,  the  great  need  of  the  hour  is 
the  need  for  systematic  training  for  men  and  women  and  children  iii 
the  fundamental  obligations  of  citizenship  and  the  fundamental  obli- 
gations that  pertain  to  their  life  in  this  world.  The  great  questions — 
Who  are  we?  Where  did  we  come  from?  Where  are  we  going?  have 
been  left  out  of  consideration  in  our  educational  processes.  It  has 
not  made  any  difference  who  we  were,  where  we  came  from,  or  where 
we  are  going.  Our  education  has  been  a  commercialized  one.  We 
have  thought  to  stimulate  the  industrial,  the  financial,  and  to  gain  prest- 
ige from,  a  worldly  standpoint.  While,  thank  the  Lord,  there  has  re- 
mained in  this  great  land,  something  of  the  spirit  of  the  fathers,  some- 
thing of  the  great  love  of  liberty,  unfortunately  there  has  not  been 
sufficient  of  it  to  curtail  the  selfishness,  the  mercinary  and  the  ulterior 
motives. of  a  great  part  of  this  country.  Therefore  upon  this  funda- 
mental basis  I  deplore  the  organization  and  the  maintainanoe  of  any 
society,  of  any  class,  of  any  fraternity,  of  any  union  of  people  that  in 
anyway  can  be  construed  to  be  against  the  interests  of  all  the  people 
and  the  common  good.  For  my  own  part  the  Church  is  my  union,  the 
Church  is  my  club,  the  Church  is  my  lodge;  the  Church  is  my  fra- 
ternity ;  and  I  want  to  say  to  every  man  that  there  is  within  the 
Church  an  opportunity  for  the  expression  of  every  legitimate  desire 
that  should  be  in  the  heart  of  man.  While  it  may  be  considered 
proper  for  men  to  organize  themselves  into  clubs  and  unions  and  fra- 
ternities of  one  kind  and  another  in  order  to  advance  their  own  sel- 
fish interests,  I  feel  constrained  to  say  that  in  time  to  come  it  will 
prove  inimical  to  the  government,  and  in.  time  to  come  these  self-same 
selfish  interests  will  be  against  each  other.  The  only  way  in  which 
a  great  cause  can  stand  and  prevail  and  persist  is  that  all  its  adher- 
ents shall  have  an  unselfish,  altruistic  motive  in  seeking  to  render 
service  to  all  and  for  all.  Truth,  the  great  principles  of  the  gospel, 
the  bestowal  of  the  Priesthood  itself,  teach  us  that  we  must  serve  all 
and  love  all,  if  we  shall  succeed  in  God's  work. 

SEEK  NO  ALLIANCE  WITH  ANY  UNION  THAT  DOES  NOT  URGE 
THE  COMMON  GOOD  OF  ALL. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I-  believe  that  it  is  a  proper  time  to  warn 
our  people  against  the  dangers  that  lie  ahead,  from  associating  them- 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


selves  with  any  institution  that  does  not  make  for  the  common  good 
of  humanity.  I  concur  with  my  brethren  that  there  are  many  insti- 
tutions in  the  world  that  do  make  for  the  uplift  and  the  advancement 
of  mankind;  I  believe  that  many  of  our  Father's  children  who  are 
without  the-  pale  of  the  Church,  are  instrumental  in  carrying  on  his 
work.  I  cannot  but  think  that  he  has  let  his  Spirit  rest  upon  good 
men,  the  world  over,  to  advance  the  cause  of  Truth.  It  seems  to  me 
that  it  must  be  so.  We,  I  believe,  should  unite  with  and  foster  every 
good '  movement,  every  good  cause,  everything  that  tends  to  advance 
the  interests  of  the  gospel  and  of  truth  in  the  world ;  but  I  think  that 
we  should  preserve  ourselves  safe,  inviolate,  compact  against  incur- 
sions of  all  kinds,  of  influences  of  all  kinds  of  organizations  that  in  any 
way  will  tend  to  disrupt  us.  If  we  all  hang  together  we  will  be  safe. 
If  we  all  espouse  the  one  cause,  if  we  are  all  devoted  to  it,  we  will 
make  that  cause  felt  in  the  world.  And  the  only  way  that  we  can  all 
adhere  uniformly  to  the  great  cause  of  truth  is  to  all  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  to  follow  the  leadership  that  has  been  placed 
over  us. 

We  have  been  criticized  as  being  a  people  who  act  with  such 
unanimity  that  we  are  mere  puppets,  that  we  do  not  think  for  our- 
selves, that  we  do  not  act  upon  our  own  initiative  and  that  we  are  not 
guided  by  our  own  wisdom.  That  criticism  is  wholly  without  justifica- 
tion. We  follow  the  leadership  that  God  has  placed  over  us,  because 
we  know  that  it  is  right,  because  we  know  that  it  is  safe,  because 
we  know  that  the  leadership  of  men,  in  man's  own  wisdom,  is  not  safe 
and  cannot  be  trusted,  and  that  we  cannot  repose  our  confidence  in 
the  wisdom  of  men. 

LET  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  FOLLOW  THEIR  LEADERSHIP. 

1  call  upon  the  people  of  this  Church  to  follow  the  leadership 
of  these  men  who  have  been  set  to  preside  over  them,  in  their  wards 
and  in  their  stakes.  I  know  that  you  will  not  go  wrong  if  you  take 
their  counsel.  I  know  that  you  will  be  preserved  from  the  dangers, 
the  temptations,  the  evils  and  snares  of  this  world  if  you  will  follow 
their  leadership.  They  are  true  leaders;  they  have  no  ulterior  mo- 
tives to  subserve,  nor  selfish  purposes  to  subserve.  They  seek  only 
your  welfare,  and  I  deplore  .the  fact  that  occasionally  we  find  those 
within  the  Church  who  impugn  improper  motives  to  the  men  who  lead 
and  guide.  I  want  further  to  testify  to  you  that  it  is  God's  truth 
that  the  general  authorities  who  preside  over  you  and  over  the 
Church  have  nothing  but  your  welfare  at  heart.  They  have  no  per- 
sonal purposes  to  subserve.  Their  only  thought,  their  one  single  pur- 
pose, is  to  advance  God's  work  in  the  world.  They  love  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  believe  that  there  is  not  one  of  them  who  would  not  be 
perfectly  willing  to  lay  down  his  life  for  the  Church,  to  advance  this 
great  work  and  to  help  carry  the  Truth  into  the  hearts  of  men.  Do 
not  criticise,  do  not  complain  on  that  score.    It  is  wrong;  and  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS.  105 


man  who  says  that  the  leaders  of  the  Church  are  not  actuated  by  the 
finest  and  the  highest  motives,  I  fear,  has  within  himself  a  sinister 
motive  that  prompts  such  a  statement. 

God  bless  our  people  that  we  may  be  a  shining  light  to  this  world. 
Here,  right  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  I  have  concluded 
is  the  cradle  of  liberty.  I  am  willing  to  grant  to  Massachusetts  all 
the  credit  that  is  due  her  for  the  great  effort  that  she  has  made  to 
bring  freedom  to  mankind;  but  I  say  right  here,  with  God's  people, 
is  the  real  cradle  of  liberty.  I  have  reached  the  conclusion  that  there 
is  only  one  perfect  law  of  liberty,  and  that  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  know  that  all  the  systems  that  may  be  devised,  all  of  the 
governments  that  can  be  constructed,  will  not  bring  liberty  to  man- 
kind if  the  true  principles  of  liberty  are  not  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple. The  thing  that  the  world  needs  today  is  individual  righteous- 
ness, and  if  men  and  women  will  conform  their  lives  to  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel,  if  they  will,  as  has  been  said,  be  vitalized  by  these  great 
principles  of  truth,  the  problems  of  the  world  will  melt  away,  peace 
will  come,  the  Lord  will  find  his  people  ready  for  his  reign,  and  the 
Millennium  will  be  upon  us.  God  bless  us,  that  as  the  salt  of  the  earth 
we  may  not  lose  our  savor,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

It  was  announced  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  that  on  Sunday 
at  10  a.  m.  and  2  p.  m.  there  would  be  overflow  meetings  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  and  at  2  p.  m.  also  in  Barratt  Hall.  The  General  Priest- 
hood meeting,  it  was  announced,  would  meet  at  7  o'clock  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle this  evening.  Richards  ward  choir  will  furnish  music  for 
the  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  the  L.  D.  S.  University  choir 
for  the  meeting  in  Barratt  Hall. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang:  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great 
Jehovah." 

President  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  of  the  Deseret 'stake  of  Zion  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tabernacle,  Sunday,  October  5,  1919, 
10  o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  presiding. 

Every  available  sitting  and  standing  space  was  filled  in  the  great 
building,  the  main  floor  being  almost  entirely  occupied  by  presiding 
officers  assembled  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  congregation  to  order. 

The  Tabernacle  choir,  led  by  Elder  George  Careless,  former  di- 
rector, now  over  eighty  years  of  age,  sang  the  hymn : 

Arise,  O  glorious  Zion, 

Thou  joy  of  latter  days. 
Whom  countless  Saints  rely  on, 

To  gain  a  resting  place; 
Arise, 'and  shine  in  splendor, 

Amid  the  .world's  deep  night; 
For  God,  thy  sure  defender, 

Is  now  thy  life  and  light. 

Let  faithful  Saints  be  rearing 

The  city  of  our  Lord, 
On  mountain  tops  appearing, 

According  to  His  word — 
A  sought-out  habitation, 

By  men  of  truth  and  faith — 
A  covert  of  salvation 

From  ignorance  and  death. 

The  Temple  long  expected  , 

Shall  stand  on  Zion's  hill, 
By  willing  hearts  erected, 

Who  love  Jehovah's  will; 
Let  earth,  her  wealth  bestowing, 

Adorn  His  holy  seat, 
For  nations  great  shall  flow  in, 

To  worship  at  His  feet. 


What  though  the  world  in  malice 

Despise  these  mighty  things, 
We'll  build  the  Royal  Palace, 

To  serve  the  King  of  kings; 
Where  holy  men  anointed 

To  know  His  sovereign  will, 
Each  ordinance  appointed 

To  save  us,  will  reveal. 

From  Zion's  favored  dwelling 
The  Gospel  issues  forth, 

The  covenant  revealing 
To  gather  all  the  earth; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


107 


And  Saints,  the  message  bringing 

To  all  the  sons  of  men, 
With  the  redeemed,  shall,  sing  ng, 

To  Zion  come  again. 

O  hear  the  proclamation, 

And  fly  as  on  the  wind! 
For  righteous  indignation 

Shall  desolate  mankind! 
Then,  Zion,  men  shall  prize  thee, 

And  bow  before  thy  shrine; 
And  they  who  now  despise  thee 

Shall  own  thy  light  divine.  - 

Through  painful  tribulation 

We  walk  the  narrow  road, 
And  battle  with  temptation, 

To  gain  that  blest  abode; 
But  patient,  firm  endurance, 

With  glory  in  our  view — 
The  Spirit's  bright  assurance — 

Will  bring  us  conq'rors  through. 

O  grant,  Eternal  Father, 

That  we  may  faithful  be, 
With  all  the  just  to  gather, 

And  Thy  salvation  see! 
Then,  with  the  hosts  of  heaven, 

We'll  sing  the  immortal  theme — 
To  Him  be  glory  given. 

Whose  blood  did  us  redeem. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  James  H.  Robinson,  president  of 
the  South  Davis  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the  first  hymn,  words  by  Parley  P. 
Pratt  and  music  by  Evan  Stephens.  President  Grant  first  read  the 
whole  hymn : 

The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee; 

Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled. 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 

Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

The  clouds  of  error  disappear 

Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine; 
The  glory,  bursting  from  afar, 

Wide  o'er  the  nations  soon  will  shine. 

The  Gentile  fullness  now  comes  in, 
And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand; 

Lo!  Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  from  sin, 
Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand. 

Jehovah  speaks!  let  earth  give  ear, 
And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live; 

His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 
His  covenant  people  to  receive. 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Angels  from  heaven,  and  truth  from  earth 
Have  met,  and  both  have  record  borne; 

Thus  Zion's  light  is  bursting  forth. 
To  bring  her  ransomed  children  home. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  have  never  desired  more  to  have  my  words  inspired  than  I  do 
now.  I  am  fond  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  My  heart  is  full  of  love  for 
the  people  among  whom  I  was  born  and  with  whom  I  have  been  raised. 
In  the  years  in  which  I  have  been  separated  from  the  Church,  largely 
in  attendance  at  eastern  universities,  I  have  thought  of  my  people  here 
with  very  great  fondness,  and  have  confidently  felt  that  all  the  good 
ideas  there  learned,  if  properly  presented  to  my  own  people  here,  would 
be  accepted  promptly  by  them. 

i 

AN  APPEAL  FOR  PURE  WATER. 

At  Cornell  University  I  devoted  a  great  deal  of  time  to  the  study 
of  sanitary  engineering.  As  I  listened  to  the  teachings  of  college  pro- 
fessors I  was  amazed  that  the  lives  of  our  people  have  been  so  well 
preserved  under  unsanitary  conditions.  When  I  came  from  that  in- 
stitution the  sun  had  not  gone  down  on  the  first  day  of  my  arrival 
until  I  had  called  together,  in  one  of  our  "Mormon"  villages,  the  officials 
of  the  city  and  appealed  to  them  that  they  provide  the  people  with 
pure  water.  I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  say  the  appeal  was  not  made 
in  vain.  Nor  have  I  since  in  religious  services,  before  meetings  of 
commercial  clubs  or  other  organizations,  appealed  to  any  of  our  peo- 
ple along  these  lines  without  success. 

WE  ACCEPT  TRUTH  FROM  EVERY  SOURCE. 

This  is  one  reason  among  many  why  I  have  great  confidence  in 
you,  my  own  people.  We  believe  in  accepting  truth,  from  whatever 
source  it  comes.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  honest,  upright,  holy, 
good,  and  true,  we,  in  accordance  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
the  gospel,  seek  after  these  things. 

A  GENUINE  LOVE  OF  AND  INTEREST  IN  AMERICA. 

I  regard  myself  as  a  pretty  good  American.  My  ancestors  have 
been  Americans.  I  met  a  man  from  Canada  a  few  days  ago,  an  en- 
gineer, whose  name  is  Lyman.  I  received  a  letter  from  him  only  yes- 
terday in  which  he  sent  me  a  long  list  of  ancestors.  He  points  with 
pride  to  their  record.  Since  1630,  the  Lymans  have  been  active  in 
„  their  support  of  this  great  country.  It  has  had  no  important  war  in 
which  Lymans  have  not  fought,  in  which  Lymans  have  not  bled,  in 
which  Lymans  have  not  died  for  their  country. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN. 


109 


I  see  before  me  now,  especially  in  these  front  seats,  many  stake 
presidents  with  whom  I  have  had  very  intimate,  friendly,  affectionate 
association.  I  wonder  if  at  this  hour  I  may  properly  attribute  to  them 
what  I  attribute  to  myself,  that  is,  a  genuine  love  of  and  interest  in 
America  ? 

Some  men  who  are  here  talked  with  me  months  ago  upon  the 
subject  concerning  which  I  desire  to  make  a  few  remarks  today.  Upon 
this  subject,  their  views  and  mine  differ.  Iextend  to  them  the  liberty  of 
thinking  as  their  consciences  direct,  and  I  desire  to  be  accorded  the 
same  privilege.  I  have  greater  respect  for  the  man  who  expresses 
his  honest  convictions  when  he  is  with  the  minority  than  I  have  for 
the  man  whose  desire,  it  seems,  is  primarily  to  be  with  the  majority. 
American  freedom,  American  liberty  and  American  institutions  can 
only  endure  indefinitely,  if  I  understand  the  fundamentals  of  Ameri- 
can government,  if  every  man,  in  the  language  of  Abraham  Lincoln, 
dares  to  the  end  to  do  his  duty  as  he  understands  it.  These  men  be- 
fore me  who  conscientiously  are  opposed  to  the  League  of  Nations,  I 
admire.  I  respect  them  for  their  true  Americanism.  Such  as  these 
will  make  the  republic  of  America  endure  indefinitely,  if  indefinitely  it 
is  to  endure. 

POSITION  ON  THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS. 

Some  may  say  I  speak  here  with  an  unfair  advantage,  since  others 
have  no  opportunity  to  reply.  But  I  say,  as  a  leader  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  I  cannot,  at  this  conference,  do  my 
duty,  as  I  understand  it,  if  I  keep  my  lips  closed  upon  a  subject  that,  to 
my  mind,  has  more  to  do  with  the  welfare  of  all  the  nations  of  the 
world  than  any  other  subject  that  has  come  before  the  American  peo- 
ple since  the  Constitution  was  adopted.  So  I  say  frankly,  brethren, 
come,  let  us  for  a  moment  reason  together.  I  now  speak  upon  this 
subject,  in  public,  for  the  first  time.  I  have  hesitated  to  do  this  be- 
cause my  views  do  not  agree  with  those  of  my  life-long  friend,  the 
Honorable  Reed  Smoot,  whom  I  have  admired  since  childhood.  But 
I  know  this  broad-minded  statesman  well  enough  to  realize  that  he 
will  have  greater  respect  for  me  if  I  speak  than  he  could  have  if,  with 
my  convictions,  I  were  to  remain  silent. 

I  have  studied  the  covenant  of  the  League  of  Nations  with  con- 
siderable care.  One  objection  raised  against  it  is  that  the  people  of 
Europe,  not  familiar  with  our  ideals,  and  not  concerned  in  the  wel- 
fare of  our  country,  are  given  authority  to  say  when  we  shall  and 
when  we  shall  not  go  to  war.  I  am  not  able  to  read  this  meaning  into 
the  proposed  covenant  of  the  League.  The  covenant  provides  for 
two  bodies  of  representatives,  one  is  called  the  assembly  and  the  other 
the  council.  In  the  council  there  will  be  but  nine  countries  represented. 
Each  country  in  that  council  is  to  have  one  vote.  Action  can  be  taken 
by  the  council  only  with  a  unanimous  vote.    Suppose  the  proposition 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  presented  of  declaring  war.  The  man  who  represents  the  United 
States  of  America  in  the  council,  if  asked  to  vote,  must  say  in  substance : 
"Gentlemen,  under  the  Constitution  of  my  country,  only  the  Congress 
of  the  United  States  has  the  authority  to  declare  war.  I  must,  there- 
fore, be  instructed  by  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  before  I  can 
cast  my  vote."  Thus  will  this  cherished  provision  of  our  inspired  Con- 
stitution remain  inviolate. 

SUCCESS  OF  THE   PAN-AMERICAN  UNION. 

I  was  in  Kansas  City  a  week  ago  yesterday.  I  listened  to  an 
address  by  John  Barrett,  the  Director  General  of  the  Pan-American 
Union.  I  believe  this  gentleman  is  a  Republican.  If  I  remember 
correctly,  he  came  into  political  life  when  he  was  a  comparatively 
young  man  by  receiving  from  President  Roosevelt  the  appointment 
of  Ambassador  to  Siam. 

Before  the  International  Farm  Congress,  Mr.  Barrett  said:  "I 
desire  to  make  it  clear  at  the  outset,  that  while  I  represent  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States,  by  appointment  from  the  President, 
I  also  stand  before  you  as  a  representative  of  the  same  sort  for  all 
of  the  other  American  countries  that  belong  to  this  Union." 

All  the  countries  in  the  Western  Hemisphere,  south  of  Canada, 
twenty-one  in  number,  belong  to  the  Pan-American  Union.  The 
Canadians  were  practically  in  readiness,  so  this  representative  said, 
to  join  the  Pan-Arnerican  Union  when  war  was  declared  and  the  • 
plans  for  so  doing  were  temporarily  upset. 

Mr.  Barrett  continued  to  speak  in  words  like  these :  "We 
have  regular  meetings  of  the  representatives  of  these  twenty-one 
countries.  When  these  representatives  come  together,  they  become 
acquainted,  and  thus  they  learn  to  understand  one  another.  They  pre- 
sent the  views,  the  ideals,  the  desires,  the  ambitions,  the  trade  and 
other  interests  of  their  respective  countries.  Getting  thus  close  to- 
gether, they  arrive  at  a  mutual  understanding." 

He  continued,  "The  significant  fact  I  desire  to  draw  to  your  at- 
tention is  that,  since  the  organization  of  the  Pan-American  Union,  no 
country  in  the  Western  Hemisphere  has  been  at  war  with  another 
country  in  this  hemisphere  and  on  not  fewer  han  six  different  occa- 
sions has  actual  war  between  these  countries  been  averted." 

"Here  in  our  own  hemisphere,"  he  continued,  "we  have  a  League 
of  Nations  in  actual  operation  and  I'm  not  sure  but  what  this  Pan- 
American  Union  is  itself  a  league  strong  enough  to  maintain  the  peace 
of  the  world."  If  one  so  well  informed  sees  such  hope  for  peace  be- 
cause of  the  successful  operation  of  this  comparatively  little  league  of 
the  Pan-American  Union,  how  much  greater — really  how  well  founded 
— is  the  hope,  the  expectation,  that  permanent  peace  may  come  to  the 
world  if  the  proposed  covenant  of  the  League  of  Nations  embracing, 
as  it  does,  the  great  nations  of  the  other  hemisphere,  is  adopted. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN. 


Ill 


FIRM  FOR  THE  LEAGUE  OF  NATIONS. 

I  would  be  untrue  to  the  blood  that  flows  in  my  veins,  I  would 
be  untrue  to  that  father  of  mine,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  who  was1  a  lover 
of  liberty,  who,  in  all  his  lifetime  hoped  and  prayed  earnestly  for  the 
nations  of  the  world  to  so  organize  that  bloodshed  might  be  averted, — 
I  say  I  would  be  untrue  to  all  of  these,  if  I  were  to  refrain  from  speak- 
ing in  the  interest  of  this  proposed  covenant.  Francis  M.  Lyman 
was  not  a  coward.  He  was  never  afraid,  and  in  his  public  hopes, 
desires,  and  works,  I  defy  any  one  to  find  an  element  of  personal  sel- 
fishness. Were  I  to  stand  before  this  audience  today,  his  son,  and 
keep  my  lips  closed,  I  would  be  an  unworthy  son  of  a  brave  and  cour- 
ageous sire,  who  lived  and  worked  and  hoped  for  the  liberty  of  all 
the  people  of  the  world. 

After  war  was  declared,  in  1914,  he  said  repeatedly,  "We  must 
do  one  of  two  things,  either  put  on  the  Kaiser's  yoke  or  bring  him 
beaten  to  his  knees,  however  long  it  takes  and  however  much  it  costs." 
If  Francis  M.  Lyman  were  here  today  to  speak  as  he  has  spoken 
many  times,  on  occasions  like  this,  he  would  say  as  I  say  now:  "I  am 
prepared  to  do  my  duty  as  I  understand  it  and  I  accord  to  others 
the  same  privilege.  Let  me  make  it  clear  that  I  stand  firmly  for  the 
League  of  Nations.  In  the  days  to  come  I  expect  to  see  no  time  in 
which  I  shall  regret  having  taken  this  stand." 

AN  APPEAL  TO  ABANDON  THE  USE  OF  TOBACCO. 

One  other  word  and  I  will  stop.  We  have  had,  this  morning, 
a  thrilling  meeting  of  Mutual  Improvement  officers.  I  should  like, 
if  I  had  the  time,  to  say  a  few  words  upon  the  slogan  of  our  organ- 
ization, namely,  "We  stand  for  spiritual  growth  through  attendance 
at  sacrament  meetings,"  but  time  will  permit  me  to  do  no  more  than 
repeat  it. 

During  the  war  the  habit  of  smoking  has  been  tremendously  in- 
creased. We  are  aiming  to  have  a  survey  made  in  every  stake,  and 
ward,  for  the  purpose  of  finding  out  how  many  smokers  there  are, 
and  we  propose  to  use  our  organization  for  the  purpose  of  reducing  this 
habit  to  the  least  possible  minimum.  I  think  I  can  do  nothing  that  will 
emphasize  the  importance  of  this  subject  more  than  to  deliver  here 
and  now  a  message  that  was  sent  to  you  by  me  some'  years  ago  from 
Cornell  University. 

The  message  is  from  Andrew  D.  White.  This  man  for  years 
was  a  professor  in  the  University  of  Michigan,  at  Ann  Arbor,  he 
was  for  a  long  period  President  of  Cornell  University,  and  he  served 
our  country  as  ambassador  to  Germany.  His  name  is  among  the  names 
of  the  great  historians  of  our  country.  Andrew  D.  White,  standing 
before  a  body  of  teachers,  said : 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  cannot  refrain,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  from  making  a  few  preliminary 
remarks  before  beginning  my  address  proper.  I  understand  that  there  are 
before  me  teachers  from  every  state  in  the  Union  and  from  almost  all  the 
countries  of  the  world  and,  therefore,  I  cannot  let  this  opportunity  go  'by 
to  say  that  I  want  to  go  back  into  your  communities  and  take  to  the 
people  with  whom  you  are  associated  a  message  from  Andrew  D.  White. 
That  message  is  this:  In  my  fifty  years  of  experience  with  college  students, 
with  college  n>en,  I  have  yet  to  find  the  first  young  man  who  was  a  smoker 
of  cigarettes  that  ever  amounted  to  anything. 

His  view  and  my  view  or  your  view  of  what  it  means  to  amount 
to  something  may  be  different,  but  those  were  his  words.  He  con- 
tinued : 

i 

As  I  walk  across  this  campus,  this  wonderful  Cornell  University  campus, 
and  see  young  men  puffing  at  their  cigarettes,  I  don't  care  how  much  money 
they  have,  I  don't  care  what  their  prospects  are,  I  don't  care  what  their 
social  standing  is,  I  don't  care  who  their  parents  are,  I  say  to  myself,  they 
will  not  amount  to  more  than  .that — and  he  snapped  his  fingers. 

As  I  have  already  stated,  I  came  from  Cornell  University,  filled 
with  enthusiasm  and  confidence  in  my  own  people.  I  appealed  to  the 
people  of  Utah  and  nearby  states,  to  provide  themselves  with  pure 
water.  They  responded  promptly  with  the  improvements.  I  was  the 
Stake  Supervisor  of  parents  classes  in  the  Ensign  stake  when  this 
matter  of  individual  sacrament  service  sets  was  proposed.  The  appeal 
was  made  to  the  people  to  provide  themselves  with  these  sets,  and 
today  they  are  found  practically  everywhere  in  the  Church. 

Now,  as  one  of  the  General  Superintendency  of  the  Young  Men's, 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  I  appeal  to  you,  fathers  and  rao- 
ers,  leaders  in  the  Church,  to  join  the  Mutual  Improvement  workers 
in  an  effort  to  reduce  to  the  least  possible  minimum,  the  use  of  the 
cigarette.  The  laws  of  the  state  are  against  it.  It  is  a  misdemeanor  for 
any  individual  to  sell  or  to  give  any  kind  of  tobacco  to  any  boy  under 
twenty-one  years  of  age. 

I  have  before  me  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  If,  standing,  as  I  am 
before  this  audience,  I  were  to  say:  "I  have  a  method  to  present  by 
which  all  the  young  men  in  the  Church  may  become  rich  in  money," 
every  ear  would  be  turned  my  way  to  learn  the  method.  But,  is  it 
not  better  to  have  the  .ability  to  make  the  money  than  it  is  to 
have  the  money  itself  ?  Who  would  not  rather  have  a  fortune  he  him- 
self has  acquired  than  to  possess  one  that  has  been  accumulated  by 
another?  This  Word  of  Wisdom  tells  us  how  to  become  rich.  Rich 
in  money?  Yes;  rich  in  money.  It  says:  no  liquor,  no  tobacco,  little 
meat,  no  hot  drinks,  and  then  it  concludes :  "All  Saints  who  remember 
to  keep  and  to  do  these  things,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments, shall  find" — what?  Wealth-  No,  but  three  things  that  mean 
more  than  wealth  alone.  They  shall  receive  first,  health,  they  shall 
find,  next,  v/isdom ;  and  they  shall  find,  third,  great  treasures  of  knowl- 
edge, yea  hidden  treasures.  They  shall  run  and' not  be  weary,  they 
shall  walk  and  not  faint. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD.  '  113 


This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  a  subject  upon  which  we  have 
no  division  of  opinion.  Let  us  refrain  from  the  use  of  these  things 
forbidden  that  we  may  have  health,  wisdom,  and  knowledge,  the  three 
blessings  promised,  these  together  being  equal  to  much  more  than 
wealth  alone.  By  keeping  these  commandments,  we  shall  deserve  the 
closing  blessing  in  the  revelation,  namely,  "I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them 
a  promise  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass,  them  by  as  the  children 
of  Israel  and  shall  not  slay  them." 

May  our  Father  in  heaven  enable  us  to  so  teach,  so  lead,  so  guide, 
and  so  direct  our  boys  and  girls  that  all  the  great  and  wonderful  prom- 
ises made  concerning  the  pure  in  heart  may  be  theirs  and  ours.  I 
pray  earnestly  for  these  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang :  "Hymn  to  Liberty,"  words  and  music  by  Arthur 
Farwell. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 
I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people; 

"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance,  and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come 
unto  our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of 
the  earth. 

"But  behold  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin  in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be 
content  with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  uo  in  my  desires,  the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether 
it  be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men,  ac- 
cording to  their  will;  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men;  or  he 
that  knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth  good 
and  evil,  to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires;  whether  he  desireth 
good  or  evil,  life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now  seeing  that  I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than 
to  perform  the  work  to  which  Lhave  been  called?  ' 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  was  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all 
the  ends  of  the  earth? 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation 
and  tongue,  to  teach  his  word;  yea,  in  wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that 
they  should  have;  therefore  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom, 
according  to  that  which  is  just  and  true." 

IN  ACCORD  WITH  THE  BRETHREN. 

These  words  from  Alma,  29th  chapter,  express  my  feelings  this 
morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  find 
myself  in  complete  accord  and  harmsny  with  my  brethren,  each  and 
every  one  who  have  spoken  at  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference. 
And  I  desire  to  emphasize  the  fact  that  those  of  you  who  have  had  the 
gift  of  discernment  have  distinguished  no  difference  of  opinion  among 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  have  addressed  you.  While  they  have  emphasized  various 
features  of  the  great  gospel  message  and  of  the  questions  of  the  hour, 
yet  we  stand  in  accord  with  each  other  on  these  subjects,  for  which  I 
am  thankful.  I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  saw  our 
clay  and  that  we  have  been  preparing  for  this  day  for  more  than  a 
generation  past,  that  the  Lord  knew  the  various  circumstances  and 
conditions  that  would  confront  us  in  this  hour,  and  he  has  been  try- 
ing to  fortify  us  and  qualify  us  to  meet  the  emergency,  to  endure  the 
test  that  now  lies  before  us.  The  Church  has  been  subject  to  criticism, 
in  the  past,  because  of  its  unity,  because  of  the  willingness  on  the  part 
of  the  membership  of  the  Church  to  listen  to  the  counsels  of  its  lead- 
ers. I  remember  upon  one  occasion  listening  to  a  very  severe  criticism 
of  the  Church  on  the  part  of  an  eminent  divine  who  charged  that  while 
we  were  the  most  perfect  religious  organization  in  the  world,  he  feared 
the  consequence  because  he  said  the  membership  of  the  Church  is  ab- 
solutely under  the  control  and  the  domination  of  its  leaders.  I  recall 
also  that  another  one  expressed  it  that  the  two  most  efficient  organiza- 
tions in  the  world  were  the  German  army  and  the  "Mormon"  Church, 
and  he  hoped  that  he  would  see  the  day  when  we  would  have  equal 
efficiency  and  still  retain  individual  liberty. 

OBTAINING  .  EFFICIENCY  AND  OBEDIENCE. 

There  are  two  ways  of  obtaining  obedience  and  efficiency.  The 
Germany  army  had  one,  and  the  "Mormon"  Church  has  quite  another. 
The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  had  a  plan,  to  bring  all  men  to  obedience ;  and 
Constantine,  the  great  Roman  Emperor  had  quite  another  plan.  There 
are  two  means  by  which  obedience  may  be  obtained  on  the  part  of 
parents  over  their  children.  One  is  by  force  and  compulsion.  You 
may  compel  them  to  yield  obedience.  That  method  will  work  until 
your  child  becomes  a  man  or  a  woman,  and  then  your  spell  is  broken, 
your  power  is  gone.  The  other  method  is  slower  to  obtain  results,  but 
it  endures  longer,  and  obedience  is  obtained  through  the  exercise  of  love 
and  patience  and  gentleness  and  kindness.  By  and  through  that  means 
parents  may  have  power  over  their  children,  not  only  until  they  become 
men  and  women,  but  when  they  become  grand-sires  and  in  the  eternal 
world  the  spell  that  we  cast  ovevr  those  who  come  under  our  charge, 
when  it  is  actuated  by  the  spirit  of  love  and  gentleness  and  mercy,  shall 
never  be  broken.  These  are  the  two  methods.  The  German  army  did  ob- 
tain obedience  and  efficiency  by  force,  by  fear,  by  power,  until  men  felt 
themselves  but  slaves-  Do  you  recall  the  utterance  of  their  master- 
tyrant  who  upon  one  occasion, — about  the  time,  as  I  recall  it,  of  the 
breaking  forth  of  the  great  world  war,  said  to  his  soldiers :  "Body  and 
soul,  you  belong  to  me,  and  if,  I  should  command  you  to  slay  your 
own  fathers  and  mothers  you  should  do  it  without  a  murmur."  This 
power  he  held  until  those  whom  he  controlled  discovered  their  own 
power  and  their  own  strength.  Then  they  resented  that  autocratic 
power  that  had  ruled  unjustly  over  them  and  in  the  finality  of  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


115 


great  struggle,  when  Germany  sought  to  drive  her  soldiers  on  to 
France,  they  were  under  the  necessity  of  forcing  their  own  men  into 
the  trenches  at  the  point  of  the  bayonet,  and  many  were  shot  down 
by  their  own  guns  because  they  refused  the  mandate  of  the  tyrant. 
But  when  they  broke  the  spell  the  tyrant's  power  departed  and  he,  like 
a  whipped  coward,  fled  from  his  own  land,  and  there  is  apparently  no 
respect  now  for  that  power  which  he  once  had.  Unlike  that  .stands  the 
spirit  that  actuated  the  Christ.  He  did  have  power,  if  he  had  desired 
to  use  that  power — he  might  have  through  fear,  he  might  have  through 
miracle,  converted  all  the  world  and  had  all  men  at  his  feet,  but  he 
would  not  compel  men.  He  did,  as  we  sing:  "Call,  persuade,  direct 
aright,  in  numerous  ways  be  good  and  kind,  but  never  force  the  human 
mind."  He  did  teach  the  truth,  in  striking  contrast  to  his  envious, 
coveteous  brother  who  sought  by  force  to  compel  all  men  to  be  saved. 
Jesus  stood  for  those  same  principles  while  upon  the  earth,  but  he 
did  not  succeed  in  getting  many  to  follow  him.  Contrast  his  min- 
istry with  the  efforts  of  the  great  Roman  emperor  Constantine,  who 
years  later  was  seized  with  the  desire  to  compel  the  nations  of  the 
world  to  become  Christians  and  who  pursued  a  method  of  force.  When 
the  Roman  soldiers  conquered  a  nation,  the  priests  of  the  Church  ac- 
companied them,  and  when  the  conquered  and  subdued  sued  for  peace 
they  were  granted  peace  on  condition  that  they  would  renounce  their 
paganism  and  become  Christians,  and  so  out  of  fear  they  gave  lip  ser- 
vice to  their  professions  of  Christianity,  but  their  hearts  never  were 
in  it.  And  no  .wonder  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said  of  their  descendants, 
many  generatons  afterwards,  "they  draw  near  me  with  their  lips,  but 
their  hearts  are  .far  removed  from  me."  Their  fathers  were  thus  con- 
verted, and  traditionally  they  have  adopted  that  form  of  Christianity 
which  gives  only  lip  service.  The  Lord  Jesus  knew  them  well.  In 
contrast  with  that  method,  I  rejoice  to  say  that  the  leadership  of  this 
Church  is  in  absolute  harmony  with  the  method  of  the  Christ. 

THE     LEADERSHIP  OF  THE  CHURCH  DIRECTED  BY  LOVE  

NOT  FORCE  NOR  FEAR. 

President  Grant  read  to  us  in  the  opening  session  of  this  con- 
ference that  wonderful  revelation,  the  121st  Section  of  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  showing  the  spirit  that  should  be  manifest  by 
the  priesthood  of  this  Church,  and  he  has  pledged  us  his  word,  as  he 
did  when  in  the  last  conference  in  June  he  also  referred  to  this  sub- 
ject, that  so  far  as  his  presidency  was  concerned  it  would  be  char- 
acterized by  that  spirit.  I  want  to  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
if  you  have  ever  felt  in  all  the  administrations  that  you  can  remember 
that  the  membership  of  this  Church  bowed  their  will  to  the  leadership 
of  this  Church  out  of  fear.  I  haven't  felt  that  way.  I  know  you  have 
not.  There  have  been  times,  undoubtedly,  when  it  has  not  been  easy 
for  us  to  submit  our  will  to  the  will  and  the  judgment  of  those  who 
have  presided  over  us.    We  have  found  it  sometimes  difficult  to  sub- 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mit  our  proud  will.  I  am  grateful  to  say  before  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  while  there  have  been  such  periods  in  my  life  I  am  very 
happy  to  say  that  I  have  always  been  able  to  make  my  proud  will  sub- 
mit itself  to  the  influences  of  the  mellowing  processes  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  living  God,  so  that  I  have  found  myself,  up  until  this  time,  in  har- 
mony with  those  who  have  been  leading  and  directing  the  policy  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  remember  that 
the  editor  of  a  newspaper  up  in  Vancouver,  British  Columbia,  a  few 
years  ago,  urged  the  "Mormon"  missionaries  to  leave  that  community 
and  go  to  European  countries  as  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  had 
done  in  former  times  and  "engage  in  converting  the  poor,  taking  them 
out  to  Utah  and  Idaho,  putting  them  on  the  farms,  compelling  them 
to  till  the  soil  and  then  extract  from  them  ten  per  cent  of  their  earn- 
ings for  tithing  from  which  the  Church  has  become  rich.  Don't  come 
to  this  country  and  think  you  can  fool  us."  That  was  the  advice  given  ; 
and  in  the  answer  that  was  made,^which  the  editor  was  broad  enough 
to  publish, — we  said  it  was  true  that  in  times  past  many  people  had 
been  emigrated  from  the  lands  of  their  nativity  and  brought  out  from 
bondage — conditions  almost  amounting  to  serfdom,  and  had  been  as- 
sisted to  come  to  the  land  of  America,  and  the  Church  had  helped  them 
to  found  and  establish  themselves  in  homes  where  they  became  inde- 
pendent ;  that  the  Church  had  helped  them  to  get  the  lands,  had  helped 
them  to  till  the  soil,  had  builded  irrigation  ditches,  had  assisted  in 
building  reservoirs,  manufacturing  enterprises,  and  educational  insti- 
tutions, until  Utah  stood,  as  I  think  it  still  stands,  second  _in  the  matter 
of  its  high  standing  in  education  among  the  states  and  far  ahead  of 
British  Columbia.  We  also  said  that  the  people  had  so  prospered  and 
been  so  blessed  that,  at  that  time,  something  like  ninety  per  cent  of 
them  owned  their  own  homes.  A  like  condition  could  not  be  found 
anywhere  in  the  world ;  and  while  it  is  true  that  they  did  pay  their  tith- 
ing, they  did  it  cheerfully,  not  out  of  fear,  but  out  of  love  and  grati- 
tude to  God  that  they  had  been  alleviated  from  their  former  conditions 
where  in  old  age  they  would  have  had  to  go  to  the  poor  house,  never 
had  their  ancestors  before  them  enjoyed  homes  of  their  own;  and  so, 
because  of  what  had  been  done  in  a  material  way  for  their  improvement 
and  betterment,  they  cheerfully  paid  their  tithing.  But  there  was  one 
point  that  the  editor  overlooked.  If  ten  per  cent  of  their  earnings  had 
made  "the  Church  rich,"  what  had  the  90  per  cent,  that  was  left  done 
for  the  poor  fellows?    It  left  them  in  this  favored  condition. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  leadership  of  this  Church  from  the 
beginning  until  this  day  has  been  maintained,  not  by  fear  or  by  force. 
It  was  presumed  that  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  some  magical 
power  over  his  brethren  and  sisters ;  that  if  he  could  only  be  disposed 
of,  then  the  "Mormon"  Church  would  go  to  pieces,  but  his  death  did 
not  result  in  the  disintegration  of  the  Church.  And  when  I  think  of 
him,  O,  there  are  no  people  in  the  world  that  ever  thought  so  much  of 
their  leader!    Not  even  the  Master  himself  had  a  people  who  loved 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


117 


him  better  than  the  Latter-day  Saints  loved  their  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  But  with  all  the  love  the  people  had  for  him,  he  never  abused 
their  confidence,  he  never  took  advantage  of  them  like  others  have 
done  who  enriched  themselves  because  of  their  opportunity.  He  died, 
one  of  the  poorest  in  the  flock,  and  always  was  on  the  front  ready  to 
defend  them,  standing  between  them  and  danger.  Chained  in  a  dung- 
eon, as  a  ransom  for  his  people,  he  did  not  waver ;  but  through  all  their 
vicissitudes  he  was  their  hope,  their  inspiration,  their  prophet;  and 
when  in  the  Jast  moments  of  his  earthly  career  he  stepped  to  that  open 
window,  knowing  that  outside  there  were  many  willing  to  take  his 
life,  he,  unafraid  offered  his  life— the  very  last  act — in  saving  two  of 
his  brethren.  So  that  spirit  of  service  and  self-sacrifice  and  devotion 
to  the  people  won  the  obedience  that  was  manifest  in  that  day  to- 
wards the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  -  The  same  thing  was  true  with 
President  Young.  Do  you  remember  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  was 
condemned  to  death,  and  the  order  had  been  issued  that  he  was  to  be 
executed,  that  the  one  who  came  with  the  information  harangued  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  advised  them  to  disband  and  godlike  other  peo- 
ple, without  an  organization  and  scatter  through  the  world.  The 
answer  that  President  Brigham  Young  gave  was :  "We  shall  not 
disband;"  and  he  entered  into  covenant  with  his  brethren  and  sisters 
that  they  would  not  desert  the  poorest  Latter-day  Saints  and  leave 
them  in  Missouri.  So  he  always  had  at  heart  the  welfare  of  the 
common  people,  and  that  has  been  true  of  every  leader  until  this  day. 

COUNSEL  IN  REGARD  TO  LABOR  AND  UNIONS. 

No  wonder  the  Latter-day  Saints  love  their  leaders.  No  wonder 
they  can  trust  them.  They  have  always  been  the  true  shepherds  of 
the  flock.  They  have  never  deceived  their  people,  nor  led  them  astray ; 
and  when  the  leaders  of  this  Church  counsel  our  brethren  and  sisters  not 
to  be  built  up  with  the  hope  that  outside  of  this  Church  they  shall 
solve  the  problems  between  capital  and  labor  by  joining  unions,  by 
joining  the  non-partisan  league,  by  joining  socialism,  it  is  not  that  they 
desire  to  curtail  the  liberties  of  the  people.  It  is  because  they  love  all 
the  people.  This  Church  has  had  an  interest  in  those  who  have  pos- 
sessed means,  that  they  should  have  justice  and  their  rights.  Sometimes 
it  has  been  charged  that  the  Church  rather  favors  capitalism.  I  have 
never  discovered  it.  If  you  will  search  the  records,  you  will  discover 
that  more  means  has  been  spent  for  the  farmers,  for  the  common  peo- 
ple in  the  Church  than  for  any  other  class  in  the  days  of  President 
Young.  We,  today,  recognize,  as  they  did,  that  the  very  foundation  of 
the  Church  depends  upon  the  success  of  the  tillers  of  the  soil,  the 
workers,  and  our  interest  is  for  them,  and  yet  we  do  not  become,  sel- 
fish nor  sordid  to  join  with  one  group  of  laborers  against  the  interests 
of  all  others.  They  must  stand  on  a  broader  platform.  The  solution 
of  the  questions  that  we  have  been  discussing  shall  never  be  accom- 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


plished,  and  the  difficulties  removed  between  the  workers,  until  every 
worker  becomes  his  brother's  keeper,  interested  in  his  brother's  wel- 
fare. Until  men  shall  recognize  the  rights  and  the  privileges  and'  the 
liberties  and  the  welfare  of  all  classes  we  shall  not  find  a  solution  of 
our  troubles;  and  I  testify  to  you  that  to  this  Church  the  Lord  has 
given  the  means  of  accomplishing  this  thing.  I  testify  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  day  will  come  when  out  of  this  Church 
shall  come  the  men  and  the  women  who  will  solve  these  problems — 
for  let  me  say  to  you  that  the  most  valuable  asset  of  this  Church  is  its 
trained  body  of  men  and  women  who  are  fortified  for  this  day  of 
disrespect  of  law  and  of  order.  We  have  been  schooled  and  drilled 
to  have  confidence  in  our  leadership,  and  they  have  never  deceived  ,us, 
and  now,  shall  we  abandon  the  old  standards,  shall  we  depart  from  that 
method  that  has  united  us  together  and  held  us  as  one  people,  a  mighty 
power  because  we  are  one?  I  trust  the  leadership  of  this  Church,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  want  to  speak  for  them  that  you  shall  pay 
heed  unto  their  words,  unto  their  counsel,  unto  their  advice. 

GOD  IS  WORKING  AMONG  THE  NATIONS. 

One  of  the  questions  discussed  at  this  conference  is  not  a  politi- 
cal question.  I  protest  against  its  being  a  political  question.  There 
is  no  election  that  this  would  affect  at  all  in  the  future.  It  is  a  states- 
man's question,  and  I  say  that  I  thank  the  Lord  that  we  have  a  prophet 
in  our  midst  who  can  speak,  not  only  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  but 
for  the  whole  world  on  this  great  problem.  I  would  be  mortified 
if  we  had  no  word  for  the  world  or  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  on  this 
great  momentous  question  in  which  God  is  taking  a  conspicuous  part. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  is  working  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  as  the  'brethren  have  expressed  it.  This  work  is  the  hub,  but 
out  from  it  go  the  spokes,  and  the  wheel  is  moving.  God  is  working 
among  the  nations.  He  gave  the  victory  to  the  Allies.  He  intended 
from  the  very  beginning  to  give  it  to  them,  but  it  was  only  a  question — 
when  are  they  worthy  of  it,  when  can  it  be  entrusted  to  them?  He 
did  deliver  us  one  year  earlier  than  we  might  have  expected  the  victory, 
looking  upon  it  from  all  human  standpoints.  God  gave  it.  He  delivered 
us  from  the  loss  of  perhaps  a  million  of  our  boys ;  and  I  presume  if 
we  had  been  afflicted,  if  we  had  been  touched  like  France  and  England, 
and  even  as  Germany ;  if  every  home  was  'mourning  the  loss  of  a  son, 
then  I  think  we,  too,  would  be  stirred  in  our  hearts  to  give  more  than 
we  have  been  asked  to  give  in  the  hope  that  we  might  save  a  future 
trouble  of  this  kind.  We  have  not  been  touched  like  they  have.  God 
in  his  mercy  hath  saved  us.  O  I  pray  that  we  shall  learn  their  lessons, 
without  having  to  take  the  same  affliction  and  sorrow  and  punishment 
they  did  to  yield  to  the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes  in  the  earth. 
The  scripture  that  I  have  just  read  admonishes  us  that  the  Lord  will 
raise  up  among  all  nations  men  who  will  teach  his  word  according  to 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


119 


the  needs  of  that  particular  nation.  I  call  attention  also  to  the  word 
of  the  Lord  found  in  the  Book  of  Abraham  as  follows  : 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these  were  many  of 
the  great  and  noble  ones;  and  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good, 
and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my 
rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they 
were  good;  and  he  said  unto  me:  Abraham:  Thou  art  one  of  them;  thou 
wast  chosen  before  you  wast  born. 

So  I  believe  that  God  loves  the  world,  and  he  desires  their  deliv- 
erance. My  heart  and  my  soul  thrills  now,  when  I  think  that  Germany 
herself  has  already  signed  the  pact  that  will  prevent  her  from  ever 
imprisoning  a  "Mormon"  missionary  again,  or  banishing  them  from 
her  country ;  and  if  this  shall  triumph,  it  will  open  every  nation  under 
heaven  for  the  freedom  that  we  long  for,  so  that  the  elders  of  this 
Church  may  carry  the  gospel  message  to  all  the  peoples  of  the  world. 
That  appeals  to  me  above  everything  else ;  for  I  love  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men.  But  I  recognize  the  battle  that  is  on.  From  the 
very  beginning,  it  has  been  a  contest  between  the  powers  of  evil  and 
the  powers  of  God.  When  Jesus  stood,  in  that  hour  of  his  tempta- 
tion, when  the  adversary  presented  before  him,  in  panoramic  vision, 
the  kingdoms  of  this  world,  in  all  their  splendor,  and  offered  them  to 
Jesus  on  easy  terms,  namely:  Only  bow  down  and  worship  me,  and 
I  will  give  them  all  to  thee.  He  knew  that  it  was  that  for  which  Jesus 
came  into  the  world,  namely,  to  have  right  of  rulership'  and  governor- 
ship over  the  kingdoms  of  the  world.  Jesus  might  have  answered : 
"Satan,  though  you  rule  from  the  rivers  to  the  end  of  the  earth,  you 
have  no  right  nor  title  that  is  valid  to  the  kingdoms  of  this  world. 
Yours  is  only  a  'squatter's'  right.  If  I  should  accept  it  on  these  terms,' 
it  would  be  valueless.  It  was  for  this  purpose  that  I  did  come  to 
the  world,  but  I  can  not  obtain  it  on  your  terms.  I  must  die  for  it ;" 
and  he  died  to  earn  the  right  to  rule  over  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
While,  temporarily,  the  adversary  who  waged  this  war,  to  prevent  the 
rule  of  right  and  of  Christ  in  the  earth,  has  been  defeated  in  that  way, 
he  now  tries  another  means  to  defy  law  and  order  and  to  stir  up  the 
hearts  of  men  to  rebellion  against  the  forms  of  government  to  destroy 
the  very  foundations  thereof.  If  he  can  not  rule  it,  then  he  will  wreck 
it.  That  is  his  spirit  and  the  contest  is  on  and  my  soul  rejoices  in  every 
and  all  measures  that  look  to  the  winning  of  the  world  for  otir  Christ. 
I  recognize  that  he  hath  raised  up  inspired  men  in  many  nations.  I  do 
feel  and  always  have  felt  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  .testimony  that 
I  received  that  he  has  had  his  hand  over  this  land.  He  was  with  Wash- 
ington. He  gave  him  the  vision  "of  the  future,  in  Valley  Forge,  that 
stirred  the  hearts  of  the  drooping  soldiers  and  set  on  fire  the  spirit  of 
liberty,  crossed  the  Delaware  in  a  most  unseasonable  time  and  struck 
terror  into  the  hearts  of  the  enemy.  I  have  found  in  my  study  of  the 
past  that  He  hath  manifested  himself,  again  and  again.    Who  doubts 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  inspiration  that  was  resting  upon  that  great  servant  of  the  Lord, — 
Abraham  Lincoln,  the  man  of  his  hour  and  his  time? 

The  Lord  said  to  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  as  I  am  told, 
when  he,  in  the  closing  years  of  his  ministry  feared  lest  there  should 
not  be  found  men  in  the  Church  to  uphold  the  standards  of  the  Church 
and  lead  it  off  triumphantly:  "There  have  already  been  born  in  the 
Church  those  who  will  lead  it  off  triumphantly,  until  the  Lord  Jesus 
shall  come."  I  have  that  confidence  also  for  our  country.  I  have  felt 
in  my  soul  that  God  has  held  the  balance  of  power.  He_can  turn  a 
state  from  small  things.  He  can  bring  great  results  to  pass,  and  I 
have  always  found  it  possible  to  bow  my  will  to  the  will  that  has  ob- 
tained— recognizing  that  God  is  in  it — and  to  support  and  uphold  those 
whom  the  Lord  calls  for  the  hour  and  for  the  time. 

I  recognized,  long  before  the  death  of  Theodore  Roosevelt,  that 
the  Lord  raised  him  up  to  stir  the  hearts  of  men  to  civic  righteousness, 
as  perhaps  no  man  could  have  stirred  them ;  and  I  now  recognize  that. 
God  has  raised  up  the  man  who  stands  as  the  President  of  this  Nation, 
even  as  he  has  said  he  would,  and  God  is  using  him.  God  will  use 
men  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes,  whether  they  know  it  or 
not.   That  is  my  faith. 

AUTHORITY,  PLACE  AND  POSITION  OF  THE  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  CHURCH. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  you  to  remember  the  sta- 
tion and  the  position  which  the  Lord  has  given  to  the  president  of  this 
Church.  I  am  deeply  desirous  that  the  place  which  the  Lord  gave  to 
the  president  of  this  Church  shall  not  be  altered  nor  changed.  I  will 
read  to  you  two  or  three  verses  from  the  21st  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  given  on  the  very  day  the  Church  was  organized : 

Behold  there  shall  be  a  record  kept1  among  you,  and  in  it  thou  shalt 
be  called  a  seer,  a  translator,  a  prophet,  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  an 
elder  of  the  Church  through  the  will  of  God  the  Father,  and  the  grace  of 
your  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Being  inspired  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  lay  the  foundation  thereof,  and 
to  build  it  up  unto  the  most  holy  faith. 

.'Which  church  was  organized  and  established  in  the  year  of  your 
Lord  eighteen  hundred  and  thirty,  in  the  fourth  month,  and  on  the  sixth 
day  of  the  month,  which  is  called  April. 

Wherefore,  meaning  the  Church,  thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his 
words  and  commandments  which  he  shall  give  unto  you  as  he  receiveth 
them,  walking  in  all  holiness  before  me; 

For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if  from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all 
patience  and  faith; 

For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against 
you;  yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the  powers  of  darkness  from 
before  you,  and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your  good,  and  his  name's 
glory. 

That  is  the  right,  the  power,  and  the  authority  that  God  has 
vested  in  the  leader  of  his  Church,  in  all  the  Administrations,  until 


7\ 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


121 


this  moment,  and  we  must  not  fail  to  remember  that,  while  we  fol- 
lowed the  leaders  of  the  past  with  full  reverence  and  confidence, 
the  Lord  hath  called  the  man  for  the  hour,  even  as  he  has  done  in  the 
past,  now  to  lead  this  Church,  and  that  above  him  stands  our  Father 
and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  directing  him,  and  I  bear  witness  to 
you  that  we  have  never  had  a  president  who  has  presided  over  this 
Church  who  has  been  more  susceptible,  more  anxious  to  receive  the 
inspiration  and  the  revelation  of  God  for  the  blessing  of  this  people- 
While  he  is  a  man  like  most  men  of  strong  will,  we,  his  closest 
associates,  have  nevertheless,  seen  him  yield  his  strong  opinions  ,to  the 
influences  of  the  power  of  God.  So  that  he  has  but  one  thought,  to 
get  the  word  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  give  it  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  I  ask.  for  him — which  is  his  right  under  the  appointment 
of  the  Lord — all  the  respect,  all  the  honor,  all  the  confidence  that  have 
ever  been  enjoyed  by  those  who  have  led  this  Church  heretofore  ;because 
God  hath  not  changed,  though  presidents  may  come  and  go.  Jesus 
hath  not  changed.  These  are  his  servants.  I  bear  witness  of  it.  Let 
no  small  difference  of  opinion  become  the  parting  of  the  ways  to  any 
of  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  be  willing  to  submit  ourselves 
to  counsel  and  to  advice  and  leadership  that  our  God  has  appointed, 
remembering  that  though  there  have  been  strong  men  who  have  even 
stood  in  the  presence  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  yet  they  have 
failed  and  have  separated  themselves  and  parted  from  this  Church.  But 
in  almost  every  instance,  from  that  day  until  this,  it  has  been  by 
reason  of.  the  fact  that  they  have  not  been  willing  to  follow  the  leader- 
ship of  the  living  prophets  and  leaders  of  the  Church.  They  have 
wanted  to  follow,  or  have  felt  they  were  following,  the  leadership  of 
the  dead  prophets,  and  they  were  their  own  interpreters  as  to  what  the 
dead  prophets  would  say  on  this  or  that  occasion.  The  Lord  used  the 
dead  prophets  in  their  time,  to  do  their  work,  but  they  have  gone — 
and  all  honor  and  credit  to  them  and  their  ministry.  But  here  is  an- 
other situation :  My  duty  and  your  duty  is  to  submit  now,  in  confidence 
— and  I  bespeak  for  my  brethren,  your  confidence.  T  know  they  are 
entitled  to  it — to  the  living  leadership  of  this  Church,  for  God  is 
with  them ;  I  know  it ;  and  may  he  be  with  us,  that  we  may  go  grandly 
forward  to  meet  the  troubles  that  now  confront  the  labor  world  and 
that  come  in  various  forms,  for  the  Lord  hath  equipped  us  and  drilled 
us  and  schooled  us,  if  we  shall  only  follow  in  the  way  he  has  appointed, 
to  avert  all  the  troubles,  to  remain  a  united  people  and  to  go  forward 
to  the  accomplishment  of  the  grand  mission  and  purpose  which  the 
Lord  has  given  this  Church,  the  greatest  of  which  lies  before  us.  God 
help  us  to  stay  with  the  good  shepherds,  to  go  on  and  perform  our 
duty  and  be  among  those  who  shall  assist  in  completing  the  Lord's 
glorious  work  in  the  earth,  I  humbly  pray  in  trie  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  trio,  "God  be  Merciful  Unto  Us,"  was  sung  by  Arthur  Evan, 
James  Neilsen,  and  Minnie  Eckhardt. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


Read  the  following  information : 


NEW  STAKES. 


Burley  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Cassia  stake :  David  R.  Lang- 
lois,  President ;  Myron  Marlow,  First  Counselor ;  George  H.  Lewis, 
Second  Counselor;  Henry  W.  Tucker,  stake  clerk.  Wards  compris- 
ing the  stake :  Burley  First,  Burley  Second,  Declo,  Pella,  Unity, 
SpringdaTe,  and  View. 

Blaine  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Boise  stake":  William  Len- 
nox Adamson,  President;  Joseph  S.  Cooper,  First  Counselor;  G.  Wal- 
lace Mecham,  Second  Counselor ;  D.  Edwin  Adamson,  stake  clerk. 
Wards  comprising  the  stake :  Acequia,  Carey,  Gannett  Branch,  Hazel- 
ton  Branch,  Heyburn,  Jerome,  Manard,  Paul,  Rupert,  Wendell  Branch, 
and  Gooding  Branch. 

Twin  Falls  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Cassia  stake :  Laurence 
G.  Kirkham,  President ;  Edward  M.  Guest,  First  Counselor ;  Raymond 
McClelland,  Second  Counselor;  Lewis  L.  Allen,  stake  clerk.  Wards 
comprising  stake:    Buhl,  Kimberly,  Mutaugh,  and  Twin  Falls. 

Lost  River  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Blackfoot  stake :  William 
N.  Patten,  President ;  William  T.  Tew,  First  Counselor ;  Second  Coun- 
selor not  appointed  to. date.  John  L.  Bills  stake  clerk.  Wards  compris- 
ing stake :   Moore,  Arco,  Darlington,  Ballard,  Leslie. 


NEW  WARDS. 


.  Wards. 


Stake. 


Dehlin 

Afton  South 

Buhl 

Wells 

Hamer  Br. 

Orion  Br. 

Onidah  Br. 

Hawthorne 

Clarion,  Br. 

Mt.  Sherman  Br. 

Gannett  Br. 

Darlington 

Ballard  ' 

Leslie 


Bingham 
Star  Valley 
Twin  Falls 
Granite 
Bingham 
Tavlor 
Millard 
Granite- 
South  Sanpete 
Idaho 
Blaine 
Lost  River 
Lost  River 
Lost  River 


NEW  STAKE  PRESIDENT. 

( 

San  Luis  stake,  William  O.  Crowther  succeeded  Hyrum  S.  Harris. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


123 


BISHOPS  DIED. 

Ririe  ward,  Rigby  stake,  David  Ririe.  Sixth  ward,  Pioneer  stake, 
Arnold  G.  Giauque.   Thistle  Branch,  Utah  stake,  Benjamin  F.  Smith. 

STAKE  CLERK  DIED.  ' 

Hyrum  stake,  John  W.  Jensen. 

NUMBER  OF  WARDS  AND  STAKES. 

There  are  871  wards  and  branches,  79  stakes,  and  21  missions,  in 
the  Church. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  been  delighted  with  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  that  have 
been  poured  out  upon  us  during  this  conference. 

I  had  no  intention  to  speak  but  have  decided  to  make  a  few  re- 
marks to  this  very  wonderful  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  oc- 
cupying the  short  time  which  remains. 

OVERWHELMING  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  PRESIDENCY. 

As  I  stated,  I  rejoice  in  the  rich  outpourings  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  When  I  first  came  to  the  Presidency  the  thought  of  the  respon- 
sibility that  rested  upon  me  was  overwhelming  and  for  several  weeks 
it  was  impossible  for  me' to  obtain  my  needed  rest.  It  became  absolutely 
necessary  for  me  to  go  to  the  coast  to  get  the  needed  amount  of  sleep ; 
because  men  cannot  live  very  long  who  do  not  get  rest  at  night. 

A  WONDERFUL  MANIFESTATION  AND  TESTIMONY. 

When  I  was  chosen  one  of  the  apostles — -as  I  stated  this  morn- 
ing in  a  little  meeting  of  the  Religion  Classes — from;  October  until  Feb- 
ruary, I  was  very  unhappy,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  my  call  had 
come  by  direct  revelation ;  and  the  reason  was  because  of  my  having 
had  such  a  wonderful  reverence  and  respect,  almost  adoration  for  the 
men  who  held  the  apostleship.  If  there  was  one  thing  that  my  dear 
departed  mother  impressed  upon  my  very  soul  it  was  reverence  and 
respect  for  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God,  and  for  the  men  who 
stood  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of"  Latter-day  Saints. 
When  the  call  came  to  trie  to  be  an  apostle,  the  spirit  of  the  adversary 
pursued  me  day  'and  night,  from  October  until  February,  telling  me 
that  I  was-  unfit  to  occupy  that  exalted  office-  Every  time  that  I  bore 
witness  of  my  knowledge  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  the  words  would 
fly  back  in  my  face  :  "You  lie ;  you  have  not  seen  him."  I  would  wake 
up  in  the  night  feeling  that  I  should  resign,  that  I  was  unworthy.  A 

relative  of  mine  said  to  me  one  day :   "Do  you  know  that  Brother  

declared  that  no  man  was  fit  to  be  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


who  had  not  seen  the  Lamb  of  God?"  He  had  first  asked  me  the 
question,  "Have  you  ever  seen  the  Lamb  of  God,"  I  said,  "No."  Then 
he  referred  to  this  man's  declaration.  I  said:  "Yes,  I  know  that." 
"Well  then,  how  is  it  that  you  stand  as  an  apostle?"    I  answered: 

"Which  would  you  rather  believe — the  Lord  Almighty  or  Elder  ?" 

He  said :  "The  Lord."  I  said :  "So  would  I ;  and  he  sent  a  revelation 
calling*  me,  and  I  will  take  his  word  for  it  that  I  am  fit  to  occupy  the 
position."  But,  just  the  same,  I  did  not  confess  that,  day  and  night, 
there  was  a  feeling  upon  me,  calling  upon  me  to  resign.  I  took  a 
trip,  in  January,  1883,  with  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  to  San  Luis  Valley, 
Colorado,  to  San  Juan,  to  .the  Arizona  stakes,  to  Mexico,  where  we 
visited  the  Yaqui  Indians.  In  Arizona  we  visited  the  Navajos  and 
also  the  Moquis.  Speaking  of  the  Navajos,  I  regret  very  much  that 
I  did  not  have  a  shorthand  reporter  with  me  when  we  held  a  meeting 
with  Manulita,  the  war  chief  of  the  Navajo  Indians.  I  could  not 
understand  a  word  he  said,  but  I  knew  that  he  spoke  with  a  fire  and 
a  force  and  fervor  that  I  had  seldom  heard  in  all  my  life,  and  the  in- 
terpreter, Brother  Ernest  Titjen,  said  that  it  was  the  most  wonderful 
speech  he  had  ever  heard.  The  Indian  chief  was  speaking  about  the 
wrongs  of  the  Indians  and  the  diseases  that  had  come  among  the  In- 
dians from  the  whites ;  and  he  spoke  of  the  failure  of  the  whites,  ex-, 
cept  only  the  "Mormons"  to  treat  the  Indians  rightly.  He  announced 
that  the  women  of  the  Indian  nation  were  safe  in  the  hands  of  the 
"Mormons."  There  was  trouble,  at  that  time,  in  that  section  of  the 
Navajo  Indian  Reservation,  but  he  said :  "You  are  absolutely  safe  to 
travel  among  the  Navajos,  because  I  will  send  word  ahead  that  you 
are  'Mormons,'  and  they  know-  that  'Mormons'  are  the  friends  of  the 
red  men."  While  in  the  Navajo  Indian  Reservation,  traveling  in  a 
company  of  perhaps  half  a  dozen  wagons  and  eight  or  ten  horsemen, 
we  would  alternate  riding  in  the  wagons  and  on  horseback.  I  was 
riding  at  the  rear  of  the  company  with  the  late  President  Lot  Smith 
of  the  Little  Colorado  stake,  and  as  we  were  traveling  in  a  southeast- 
erly direction,  suddenly  the  road  turned  and  went  northeast.  But 
continuing  from  where  the  road  changed  was  a  well-beaten  path,  I  said : 
"Wait  a  minute,  Lot,  where  does  that  trail  lead?"  He  said,  "O  it 
reaches  down  there  three  or  four  miles  and  swings  back  into  the  road. 
We  will  make  a  regular  mule-shoe  with  the  road,  and  then  join  the 
trail.  There  is  a  deep  gully  that  a  team  cannot  cross,  therefore  we 
have  to  go  around."  I  said :  "Can  a  horseman  cross  it  ?"  He  said, 
"Yes."  "Well,"  L  said,  "Lot,  I  want  to  be  alone.  Go  ahead,  follow 
the  crowd.  I  will  go  over  here  all  alone  and  meet  you  when  the  trail 
joins  the  road."  First  I  asked  him,  "Is  there  any  danger  from  the  Nav- 
ajos?" He  said,  "None  whatever."  I  undoubtedly  asked  this  ques- 
tion because  only  a  few  days  before  I  had  visited  the  spot  where 
George  A."  Smith,  Jr., — I  believe  the  only  son  of  that  beloved  and  saintly 
woman,  Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  had  been  killed  by  the  Navajo  Indians, 
and  I  was  naturally  a  little  nervous,  going  off  alone  in  that  section  ot 
the  country.    The  reason  that  I  wanted  to  be  alone  was  that  I  was 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


125 


oppressed,  as  I  had  never  been  before,  even  from  October  until  that 
moment,  with  that  awful  feeling  of  dread  and  doubt  and  with  the 
suggestion  hammering  away  at  my  brain  that  I  ought  to  resign  as  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  I  had  never  done  anything 
that  entitled  me  to  that  distinction,  that  I  had  never  performed  any 
special  labor,  that  I  was  not  posted  on  the  gospel,  as  an  apostle  ought 
to  be ;  that  my  mind  had  been  given  to  the  ordinary  affairs  of  life,  and 
that  I  should  step  aside  and  let  some  other  man  be  called  who,  I  be- 
lieved, was  better  qualified  for  the  position  than  myself. 

With  this  awful  depression  upon  me,  I  desired  to  be  alone,  and 
I  rode  across  there,  tortured,  so  to  speak,  by  the  devil.  After  riding 
about  a  mile,  I  suddenly  stopped  the  mule  on  which  I  was  riding,  and 
I  communed  with  High  Heaven.  It  was  revealed  to  me  there,  sitting 
alone  in  the  Navajo  Indian  Reservation,  that  I  had  done  nothing  to 
entitle  me  to  the  great  honor  of  being  an  'apostle,  except  that  I  had  kept 
my  life  pure  and  sweet.  It  was  revealed  to  me  there  that  a  council  was 
held  in  heaven,  exactly  the  same  as  we  hold  councils  here.  Matters 
were  discussed,  and  there  was  presented  the  question  of  filling  the  two 
vacancies  existing  in  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles ;  that  the  con- 
ference had  adjourned,  and  those  two  vacancies  remained  and  ought  to 
be  filled.  The  question  was :  "Whom  shall  we  call,  in  sending  a  revela- 
tion to  fill  those  vacancies?"  My  father,  Jedediah  M.  Grant,  who  died 
when  I  was  a  baby,  only  nine  days  old,  asked  God,  our  heavenly 
Father,  that  his  son,  Heber  J.  Grant,  be  called  as  an  apostle,  and  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet  of  this  last  dispensation,  the  man  who,  as  a  child, 
communed  with  God,  our  Father— who  had  communed  with  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer,  and  was  told  by  the  Savior  of  the  world  to 
join  none  of  the  churches  then  extant,  as  they  had  all  gone  astray,  and 
that  he  should  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  to  restore  the 
gospel  again  to  the  earth — that  great  Latter-day  Prophet  joined  in  the 
request  made  by  my  father,  and  the  revelation  was  sent  calling  me 
to  be  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

JOY  IN  PROCLAIMING  THE  GOSPEL. 

f 

No  man,  I  believe  ever  had  less  happiness  or  less  joy  than  I  had 
in  proclaiming  the  gospel  from  October,  1882,  when  I  was  called  to  be 
an  apostle,  until  February,  1883,  when  the  Lord  Almighty  gave  to  me 
this  manifestation.  But  I  believe  that  no  man  lives  who  has  ever  had 
sweeter  joy,  who  has  ever  had  greater  happiness  than  I  have  had  in 
testifying  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  in  Japan,  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  in  nearly  every  State  of  the  Union, 
in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Belgium,  Holland,  Germany, 
France,  Switzerland,  Italy,  Denmark,  Norway,  Sweden, — testifying 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his 
prophet.  There  is  no  joy,  there  is  no  happiness  in  all  the  world,  that 
can  compare  with  that  which  comes  into  the  heart  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint  when,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God,  he  is  able  to  bear 


■i 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


witness:  "I  know  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  \ 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God, 
and  that  this  work  called  'Mormonism'  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation ;"  and  I  bear  that  witness  before  you  here  today,  for 
I  have  the  knowledge  from  God,  and  I  lie  not.  God  bless  you  all. 
Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang:  "The  Inflammatus,"  Mrs.  Laurinda 
Brewerton,  singing  the  solo. 

The  Conference  adjourned  unp\  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  Presiding  Patri- 
arch of  the  Church. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  over-flow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  at  the  Assembly 
Hall  adjoining  the  Tabernacle  at  10  a.  m.  presided  over  by  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  The  sing- 
ing was  by  the  Richards  ward  Choir,  Lon  Fisher  director,  Tracy  Y. 
Cannon,  organist. 

Choir  sang:  "Awake  and  Arise." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Edward  W.  Croft,  president  of  the  Big 
Horn  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang:  "Christ  has  risen,"  solos  by  Myrtle  Doelle  and 
J.  E.  Carr. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

I  am  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  meet  with  you.  on  this 
occasion,  and  to  have  the  opportunity  to  address,  for  a  few  minutes, 
this  overflow  meeting;  and  being  called  upon  to  be  the  first  speaker,  I 
shall  consider  it  my  privilege  to  choose  my  subject.  While  I  shall  be 
able  to  reach  the  ears  of  only  a  few  of  the  great  multitudes  who  at- 
tend this  conference,  there  will  perhaps  be  an  opportunity  of  reaching 
many  more  through  that  which  may  be  published. 

I  have  in  my  mind  to  refer  very  briefly  to  the  work  which  is  being 
done  in  the  Historian's  Office,  particularly  the  history  of  the  Church 
pertaining  to  the  19th  century.  The  present,  I  trust,  will  be  well  taken 
care  of,  and  I  hope  that  better  historical  work  will  be  done  from  now 
on  than  has  ever  been  done  before.  This  Church  having  grown 
from  the  time  of  its  first  organization  with  six  members  until  it  now 
numbers  at  least  half  a  million  has  become  a  most  important  factor 
in  the  affairs  of  the  world.  In-  the  beginning,  when  there  were  only  a 
few  members  and  only  a  few  branches  of  the  Church,  the  Latter- 
■  day  Saints  were  almost  unknown,  but  as  the  work  spread  to  nearly  all 


.  ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON.- 


127 


parts  of  the  United  States  an  dlater  to  Canada,  Great  Britain,  and 
many  other  countries,  most  of  the  civilized  world  became  acquainted 
to  a  greater  or  less  extent  with  the  assertion  made  by  the  missionary 
elders  of  the  Church  that  the  Lord  had  opened  the  heavens  anew  and 
had  restored  to  earth  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  As  the  Church  grew, 
many  events,  which  seemed  small  and  insignificant  in  the  beginning, 
began  to  tower  high  as  something  of  great  importance,  owing  to  the 
great  results  that  followed  from  apparently  small  and  humble  be- 
ginnings. This  fact  has  caused  the  historians  of  the  Church,  at  the 
present  time,  to  turn  their  attention  to  the  earlier  days,  and  wander 
back  over  the  old  ground  covered  only  in  part  by  the  early  historians, 
and  reconstruct  and  add  new  items  to  the  history  of  the  Church,  with- 
out, however,  changing-  that  which  had  formerly  been  written,  only 
adding  and  enlarging-  and  giving  details  which  were  overlooked  at 
the  time  that  the  Church  was  small.  With  that  object  in  view  we  have 
been  very  busy  at  the  Historian's  Office  during  the  past  thirty-two 
years  writing  a  detailed  history  of  the  Church  from  the  beginning,  in 
journal  form,  commencing  with  the  6th  of  April,  1830,  and  contin- 
uing to  the  present  time.  In  our  extensive  labors  we  have  contributed 
to  this  history  of  the  Church  from  many  sources  which  were  untouched 
by  the  early  historians  who  were  satisfied  to  make  up  their  history 
mainly  from  the  current  reports  and  the  data  sent  in  to  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Church  from  adjacent  settlements  and  branches,  of 
which  there  were  then  only  a  few,  compared  with  the  present  time. 

But  many  years  ago  our  attention  was  drawn  to  the  fact  that 
much  of  the  Church  history,  at  the  Historian's  Office,  was  fragmentary 
— that  the  historical  thread  was  not  complete,  but  in  many  cases  dis- 
connected and  unsatisfactory.  This  was  especially  the  case  when  we 
looked  into  the  history  of  any  particular  stake,  mission,  branch  -or 
settlement  of  the  Saints,  for  we  discovered  that  there  were,  in  many 
cases,  no  connecting  links  between  the  events  that  had  happened  in 
these  different  localities.  In  order  to  make  the  story  complete,  so  as  to 
make  a  consecutive  history,  we  found  it  necessary  to  go  into  the  fields 
ourselves;  that  is,  visit  the  different  stakes  and  missions  for  the  pur- 
pose of  obtaining  additional  information  which  should  enable  us  to 
make  unbroken  or  continuous  histories  of  the  various  organizations  in 
the  Church.  Hence,  about  thirty-two  years  ago  we  commenced  ex- 
tensive travels  in  which  we  visited  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  in  this  great 
inter-mountain  region  in  the  interest  of  Church  history.  Our  travels 
extended  from  our  settlements,  in  Canada  on  the  north  to  those  in 
Mexico  in  the  south,  including,  of  course,  all  within  the  confines  of  the 
United  States.  On  these  historical  tours  we  usually  called  special 
meetings  in  the  different  settlements  of  the  Saints,  in  which  we  fre- 
quently delivered  lectures  on  Church  history  and  drew  attention  to  the 
importance  of  record  keeping.  Not  only  did  we  encourage  the  stake 
and  ward  clerks  and  the  secretaries  of  quorums  and  auxiliary  associa- 
tions to  keep  records,  but  we  also  advised  the  keeping  of  family  and 
personal  records  by  the  individual  members  of  the  Church.    After  a 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


general  meeting,  usually  held  in  the  evening,  to  which  the  public  was 
invited,  we  made  appointments  for  the  following  day  to  meet  with  all 
the  record  keepers  in  the  ward,  and  as  many  of  the  old  settlers  as  we 
could  possibly  get  together,  always  having  everybody  bring  such  rec- 
ords with  them  to  the  meeting  as  they  might  possess.  We  then  di- 
vided into  groups,  directing  the  different  secretaries  to  cull  from  their 
records  such  items  as  we  might  need  for  history.  Thus  we  obtained 
not  only  a  general  history  of  the  ward,  but  a  history  of  the  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood,  the  Relief  Society,  the  Sunday  School,  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  Primary  Associations,  Religion  Classes, 
etc.  We  also  had  the  old  settlers  relate  to  us  their  experiences,  in 
the  states  of  Missouri,  Ohio,  Illinois,  and  other  places,  and  then  have 
them  tell  us  of  incidents  that  happened  to  them  in  crossing  the  ocean 
with  sailing  vessels,  and  on  the  plains  with  ox  teams  and  handcarts, 
ending  up  with  what  they  had  experienced  after  their  arrival  in  Utah, 
or  after  becoming  settlers  in  any  of  the  western  towns,  founded  by 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  notes  made  in  these  meetings  were  brought 
to  the  Historian's  Office  and  there  deposited  carefully  in  boxes,  ordered 
for  the  purpose,  awaiting  the  transcribing  and  editing  into  the  history 
of  the"  Church.  These  visits  we  continued  for  at  least  five  or  six  years 
in  the  different  stakes  of  Zion,  until  all  the  settlements  of  the  Saints 
in  the  great  west  had  been  visited,  some  of  them  several  times. 

After  that  we  were  sent  abroad  to  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  mission- 
ary fields  throughout  the  world,  and  in  the  travels  in  foreign  lands 
thus  planned  and  carried  out  we  visited  nearly  all  the  conferences  and 
branches  of  the  Church  in  all  the  world,  and  did  to  a  certain  extent 
the  same  kind  of  labor  which  we  had  accomplished,  in  the  several 
Stakes  of  Zion,  with  the  exception  that  in  the  missionary  fields  we 
consulted  old  members  of  the  Church  instead  of  old  settlers.  On  our 
arrival  in  Great  Britain  we  found  that  a  great  many  of  the  old  records 
originally  kept  in  the  various  conferences  and  branches  of  the  Church 
had  been  lost,  but  those  that  could  be  found  we  gathered  together  with 
great  care  and  sent  them  home  to  the  Historian's  Office,  where  hun- 
dreds of  these  records  (many  of  them  of  very  great  value)  arc  now 
safely  housed.  In  Scandinavia  we  found  nearly  all  the  old  records 
preserved,  and  they  were  gathered  and  shipped  to  Church  headquarters 
the  same  as  the  records  from  Great  Britain.  The  records  from  the  Swiss 
and  German  mission  and  from  the  missions  on  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
were  also  gathered  in  and  sent  home. 

This  much  being  accomplished  we  next  commenced  a  most  ex- 
tensive labor  at  the  Historian's  Office  by  compiling  Church  history 
from  the  records  gathered,  and  from  the  extensive  notes  which  we 
had  made  on  our  travels.  We  were  successful  in  obtaining  the  ser- 
vices of  expert  typists  who  could  write  on  their  machines  nearly  as 
fast  as  we  could  formulate  sentences  in  our  minds  for  dictation,  and 
thus  we  dictated  from  the  notes  collected  histories  of  the  different 
stakes  of  Zion  with  all  their  wards  and  settlements,  and  also  histories 
'  of  the  various  missions  abroad,  with  their  conferences  and  branches. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


129 


This  work  went  on,  as  a  side  issue,  for  several  years,'  the  general,  or 
journal  history  of  the  Church,  being  kept  up  at  the  same  time.  We 
continued  this  dictating  work  until  a  recent  date  or  until  nearly 'all 
the  notes  gathered  on  our  travels  had  been  converted  into  readable 
matter,  and  then  we  found  that,  in  order  to  be  absolutely  accurate  and 
correct  in  our  statements,  it  would  be  necessary  to  make  a  final  visit 
to  all  the  wards  and  settlements  of  the  Saints,  for  the  purpose  of 
reading  to  the  old  settlers  and  others  the  histories  which  we  had  pre- 
pared. I  would  like  all  the  Saints  to  understand  that  this  work  is  one 
of  a  considerable  magnitude.  It  represents,  so  far  as  I  know,  historical 
work  of  a  nature  which  never  before  has  been  attempted  in  writing 
histories  of  any  community  in  this  or  any  other  country.  I  do  not 
believe  that  a  better  effort  has  ever  been  put  forth  anywhere  to  get 
accurate  and  truthful  history.  On  some  of  my  travels  I  have  carefully 
examined  the  histories  of  other  states  and  countries,  and  especially  on 
two  of  my  trips  to  the  states  I  examined  many  county  histories  in  Ohio, 
Missouri,  Illin'ois,  Iowa  and  Nebraska,  for  the  purpose  of  learning 
how  such  histories  were  generally  prepared.  I  soon  discovered  that 
most  of  the  historians  who  had  prepared  and'  written  such  histories, 
to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  had  been  the  servants  of  individuals  who 
would  pay  them  for  their  labors,  and  thus  they  were  under  the  neces- 
sity or  obligation  of  coloring  facts  and  events  in  favor  of  their  patrons, 
and  people  who  happened  to  be  poor,  but  perhaps  had  done  very  much 
more  than  some  others,  were  left  out  of  consideration  and  were  given 
no  credit  because  they  could  not  pay.  That  which  drew  my  special 
attention  was  some  of  the  narratives  in  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
were  associated  historically.  In  almost  every  instance  I  found  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  had  been  wickedly  and  maliciously  misrepre- 
sented, and  that,  in  many  cases,  riots  and  acts  of  mobs  were  palliated, 
condoned  and  interpreted  as  being  justifiable  in  cases  where  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  were  the  victims  of  terrible  outrages.  I  am  sure  that  the ' 
history  that  we,  as  Church  historians,  are  preparing,  from  a  truthful 
standpoint  will  in  many,  many  instances  conflict  with  that  which  has 
been  written  by  our  enetnies. 

In  preparing  and  writing  history,  your  historians,  backed  as  they 
have  been  by  the  Church,  have  been  under  no  particular  obligation  to 
anyone  as  to  what  we  should  write  and  to  whom  we  should  give  credit. 
We  have  been  in  a  position  to  do  justice  to  everybody,  to  the  rich  and 
the  poor  and  to  the  living  and  to  the  dead  alike,  endeavoring  to  tell 
the  truth  in  every  instance. 

I  take  great  pleasure,  on  this  occasion,  to  inform  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  such  a  work  as  that  to  which  I  have  alluded  has  been  done, 
and  I  give  it  as  my  opinion  that  the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  the 
achievements  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  preachers  of  practical  Chris- 
tianity and  as  founders  of  real  Christian  settlements  in  the  United 
"States  will  be  appreciated  and  acknowledged  by  mankind  generally. 
We  have  not  only  figured  prominently  as  pioneers  in  Utah,  but  our 
people  were  also  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlers  in  what  are  now  the 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


States  of  Nebraska,  Colorado,  Wyoming,  Idaho,  Nevada,  and  Arizona. 
The  "Mormons"  also  turned  the  little  Spanish  village  of  Yerba  Buena, 
in  California,  into  the  present  San  Francisco,  and  founded  other  set- 
tlements of  importance  on,  or  near,  the  Pacific  coast,  including  the 
famous  town  of  San  Bernardino  and  a  pioneer  settlement  in  the  San 
Joaquin  Valley.  Some  very  pretty  things  could  also  be  told  about  the 
Mormon  Battalion  and  the  "Mormon"  pioneers  generally  who  became 
empire  'founders  in  western  America.  Your  historians  have  tried  to 
the  best  of  their  ability  to  get  at  the  facts  in  all  cases  and  to  write 
up  the  events  so  truthfully  that  our  children  will  know  what  has  been 
done  by  their  fathers  and  mothers,  who  were  pioneers  in  Utah  and 
the  other  states  which  have  been  mentioned.  Sooner  or  later  the  peo- 
ple of  the  United  States  and  all  the  world  will  know  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  persecuted  and  misrepresented  as  they  have  been,  were  the 
pioneers  of  true  Christian  civilization  in  the  various  localities  in  this 
western  country  where  they  settled',  and  that  they,  as  a  God-fearing 
people,  turned  the  wilderness  and  deserts  into  fruitful  fields. 

At  the  present  time  we  are  engaged  in  making  a  final  tour  to  the 
existing  seventy-nine  stakes  of  Zion,  and  we  shall  continue  this  labor 
until  we  have  made  a  final  visit  to  all  the  stakes  and  wards,  and  cities 
and  towns,  where  Latter-day  Saints  reside.  We  realize  that  this  labor 
cannot  be  delayed,  as  the  early  settlers  are  fast  passing  away, 
and  if  the  history,  as  we  have  prepared  it,  is  not  read  now  it  would 
be  useless  to  attempt  to  read  it  for  correction  later,  as  there  would 
perhaps  be  none  of  the  old  pioneers  left  to  listen  to  it,  or  to  help  us 
in  making  corrections.  About  half  the  stakes  have  been  visited  already, 
and  we  shall  not  be  satisfied  until  all  have  been  similarly  visited,  and  the 
histories  prepared  of  the  different  stakes  and  wards  have  been  pre- 
sented to  the  people  and  accepted  by  them.  On  this,  our  final  visit, 
in  the  interest  of  Nineteenth  Century  Church  history,  we  are  also 
gathering  new  material,  although  our  main  aim  at  present  is  to  com- 
plete the  history  of  the  Church,  and  of  its  various  units,  from  the 
beginning  to  the  close  of  the  last  century. 

We  desire  to  make  a 'final  and  earnest  appeal  to  all  parties  in- 
terested in  this  history  of  the  Church  to  render  us  aid  in  completing  our 
labors.  We  desire  to  borrow  from  the  old  pioneers  or  their  children 
such  private  record's  as  may  have  been  kept  by  them,  and  we  would 
plead  with  the  present  generation  that  they  keep  records  and  preserve 
them,  as- the  time  will  come  when  the  doings  of  our  own  day  will  be  as 
important  and  interesting  to  those  who  live  after  us  as  the  experi- 
ences and  narratives  of  the  early  pioneers  of  Utah  now  are  to  us. 

We  have  been  intrusted  with  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  we  have  been  intrusted  also  with  the  privilege  of  preaching  that 
gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  It  is  the  true 
and  original  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  have  a  right  to  hand 
down  to  future  generations  a  true  history  of  how  that  gospel  message 
was  intrusted  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  how  we  have  filled  our 
mission.    We  desire  that  our  children  and'  children's  children  should 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS. 


131 


know  what  it  means  to  them  to  be  descendants  of  the  God-fearing 
pioneers  of  Utah  and  the  great  west.  I  feel  certain  that  the  time 
will  come,  if  it  has  not  already  arrived,  that  the  children  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  will  be  as  proud  to  trace  their  origin  back  to  the  Mormon, 
pioneers  as  early  members  of  the  Church,  as  many  now  are  in  tracing 
their  descent  from  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  or  the  early  settlers  of  Virginia 
in  the  beginning  of  the  Seventeenth  Century.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
have  made  a  history  which,  in  most  of  its  details,  will  be  entirely  unlike 
the  histories  made  by  any  other  people  who  have  settled  in  this  west- 
ern land.  They  have  always  been  a  God-fearing  people,  and  a  people 
who  fear  God  and  keep  his  commandments  and  conform  their  daily 
habits  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will,  in  all  cases,  make  different 
history  from  those  who,  either  through  carelessness  or  wickedness, 
disobey  the  mandates  of  heaven  during  their  sojourn  on  this  mun- 
dane sphere. 

May  we,  as  the  children  of  the  early  Latter-day  Saints  and  the 
pioneers  of  Utah  and  the  great  west,  be  worthy  descendants  of  our 
noble  predecessors,  may  we  continue  the  work  which  they  so  faithfully 
commenced  and  endeavor  by  our  acts  to  make  as  commendable  a  history 
as  they  did.  May  we,  as  representatives  of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  be  the  means  of  bringing  the  knowledge  of  that  gospel  to  all 
people  for  the  benefit  of  our  own  as  well  as  future  generations,  and 
may  we,  finally,  together  with  our  forefathers  and  our  descendants,  be 
saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  God,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:  "Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest." 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church.) 

I  am  deeply  impressed  with  the  responsibility  of  addressing  this 
large  congregation  this  morning,  and  I  hope  that  I  shall  be  able  to 
make  myself  heard.  I  have  frequently  sat  in  congregations  where  the 
voice  of  the  speaker  has  not  reached  me,  and  I  know  how  trying  and 
tedious  it  is  not  to  hear  the  person  who  is  speaking. 

I  see  before  me  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  felt  in  their  hearts  , 
the  power  and  influence  of  the  gospel  and  who,  in  their  daily  lives, 
are-  striving  with  all  their  human  weaknesses  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
to  keep  his  commandments.  We  ane  here  to  be  fed  with  the  bread  of 
life — ihe  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Many  of  you  have  come  long  distances 
and  some  of  you  may  be  disappointed  at  your  inability  to  get  into  the 
great  Tabernacle  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  that  meeting.  The  Lord 
has  said  that  where  two  or  throe  are  gathered  together  in  his  name, 
there  he  will  be  with  them,  and  that  to  bless.  I  have  long  since  learned 
that  numbers  do  not  make  a  meeting,  although  there  is  an  inspiration 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  numbers.  I  have  been  in  meeting  where  a  few  latter-day  Saints 
have  met  and  have  felt  the  power  of  the  Lord  just  as  much  as  in 
any  large  meeting.  So  I  feel  this  morning  in  looking  at  your  up- 
turned faces  that  I  am  speaking  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have 
felt  the  power  of  God. 

We  come  to  these  great  semi-annual  conferences  in  order  that 
we  may  be  edified;  that  the  glorious  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  may  be 
taught  to  us,  that  it  may  appeal  to  our  feelings  and  emotions.  We 
also  come  that  we  may  be  taught  doctrine  and  principle,  and,  if  neces- 
sary, to  be  reproved  for  our  weaknesses,  our  failings  and  our  imper- 
fections. When  we  come  to  a  meeting  like  this,  willing  to  be  taught 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  reproved,  if  necessary,  then  we  will 
have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our  midst. 

I  have  been  at  meetings  where  men  and  women  have  borne  their 
testimonies  who  could  scarcely  express  themselves,  yet  I  have  been 
thrilled  in  my  very  being  with  their  testimonies. 

I  desire,  during  the  few  minutes  I  may  address  you,  to  call  atten- 
tion to  the  subject  that  has  been  very  prominently  before  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  during  the  last  two  or  three  years,  and  that  is,  the  spirit  of 
worship  upon  the  Sabbath  day.  I  feel  sincerely  that  in  many  of  our 
Sabbath  gatherings  and  sacramental  meetings  we  lack  the  spirit  of 
worship.  Some  of  us  go  to  meeting  because  it  is  a  habit  (and  it  is 
an  excellent  habit  too).  I  would  not  decry  nor  speak  against  any 
habit  that  is  a  good  one.  Do  we  "enter  the  sacrament  meeting  as  if 
it  were  a  commonplace  affair?  Do  we  go  to  be  entertained?  I  some- 
times feel  that  we  are  drifting  into  the  idea  that  we  must  be  enter- 
tained at  our  sacrament  meetings  to  induce  us  to  attend.  I  have  heard 
it  expressed  more  than  once :  "I  don't  think  I  will  go  to  meeting  to- 
night; it  will  be  just  an  ordinary  meeting."  In  consequence  of  this 
feeling  being  developed  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  our  bishops  are 
going  outside  of  their  wards  inviting  brethren  to  go  and  address  their 
congregations  in  order  to  increase  the  attendance  at  their  sacrament 
meetings.  The  Lord  has  told  his  people,  "And  that  thou  mayest  more 
fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the 
house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day." 

There  is  something  more  important  in  this  sacrament  meeting 
than  going  to  listen  to  speaking.  The  Lord  has  commanded  us  that  as 
often  as  we  shall  meet  together  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  in  re- 
membrance of  his  sufferings  that  we  shall  worship  him  in  spirit  and  in 
truth.  We  should  enter  our  meetinghouses  with  a  spirit  of  reverence 
to  God  and  to  his  servants,  reverence  for  the  house  of  worship  and 
for  the  sacrifice  made  by  our  Lord  and  Savior,  for  he  has  promised'" us 
that  if  we  will  partake  of  the  sacrament  worthily  and  renew  our  cove- 
nants before  him,  he  will  grant  unto  us  his  holy  Spirit.  We  should, 
therefore,  enter  the  house  of  worship  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in 
our  hearts.  Peace  and  order  should  prevail  in  that  building  and 
throughout  the  whole  of  the  service. 

A  short  time  ago  I  was  in  a  stake  of  Zion,  and  after  the  confer- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH. 


133 


ence  gatherings  I  was  asked  to  attend  a  ward  meeting  on  the  Sunday 
evening.  While  the  sacrament  was  being  administered  two  boys  en- 
tered the  building  and  ran  up  the  aisle.  They  were  immediately  stopped 
by  older  persons.  This  building  was  used  for  a  playground,  basket 
ball,  dances  and  every  other  kind  of  local  entertainment.  These  boys 
entered  the  house  in  the  manner  they  did,  because  they  could  not  sep- 
arate it  from  a  house  of  worship,  it  having  been  used  for  a  basket  ball 
game  on  the  previous  evening. 

We  should  set  the  example  and  teach  our  young  people  that  when 
we  enter  the  house  of  the  Lord,  we  should  do  so  with  the  spirit  of 
devotion  in  our  hearts,  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's 
supper,  remembering  his  death  and  sufferings.  Whatever  we  do  should 
be  done  in  the  spirit  of  devotion  and  worship.  We  should  not  partake 
,of  the  sacrament  mechanically,  we  should  repeat  mentally  the  sacra- 
mental prayer.  Our  eyes  should  be  closed  and  our  thoughts  concen- 
trated on  the  sacred  duty  we  are  performing  when  we  partake  of  the 
sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper. 

I  appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  go  home  determined 
that  hereafter  when  you  enter  a  house  of  worship  you  shall  do  so 
quietly  and  orderly,  and  that  gossiping  shall  be  discontinued,  that 
peace  and  order  shall  prevail  as  far  as  our  influence  will  permit ;  for  if 
we  will  enter  the  house  of  worship  in  this  manner,  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  be  with  us,  our  worship  will  be  acceptable  unto  him,  our 
faith  will  increase,  and,  whether  those  who  may  address  us  speak 
fluently  or  not,  we  shall  feel  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
if  we  already  have  it  in  our  hearts,  and  doctrine  and  knowledge  will 
be  imparted  unto  us.  It  cannot  be  otherwise  where  a  congregation  is 
seeking,  under  the  influence  of  the  Lord,  to  be  edified  and  instructed 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  his  people,  that 
Zion  may  grow  and  prosper,  that  the  Sabbath  day  may  be  observed  as 
the  Lord  has  commanded,  and  that  the  spirit  of  worship  and  devotion 
to  our  Father  in  heaven  may  be  in  our  hearts,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  I  do  not  like  to  speak  before  a  congrega- 
tion when  so  many  are  standing.  I  feel  more  at  home  when  we  are 
all  comfortable,  for  it  is  seldom  I  am  uncomfortable  when  occupying 
this  position. 

I  believe  that  if  there  is  ever  a  time  when  one  needs  the  guidance 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  more  than  any  other  time,  it  is  when  trying 
to  address  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  do  sincerely  pray 
that  I  may  have  the  guidance  of  that  Spirit,  for  I  know  you  have 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


come  with  a  hope  that  you  will  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  I 
have  in  my  heart  only  a  desire  to  say  to  you  that  which  will  have  his 
approval  and  be  for  our  uplifting  and  good. 

I  was  wondering,  when  Brother  Jenson  was  speaking,  how  many 
of  us  fully  realize  the  importance  of  the  work  he  and  his  associates  are 
doing.  And  when  I  think  of  the  difficulty  with  which  they  have  gath- 
ered information  to  enable  them  to  write  a  history,  compared  with  the 
methods  of  today,  I  sometimes  marvel  at  the  success  they  are  obtain- 
ing. Conditions  have  changed  now,  and  our  records  are  being  kept 
in  such  a  way  that  it  will  not  be  necessary  for  Brother  Jenson,  in  the 
future,  to  go  from  stake  to  stake  and  from  ward  to  ward  to  gather 
details  necessary  to  an  accurate  history  of  this  Church.  I  wonder 
how  many  of  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  realize  the  importance  of  this 
work,  and  the  importance  of  keeping  this  record  for  ourselves,  for 
our  families.   It  is  important  that  this  be  done. 

One  thought  came  to  my  mind  while  Bishop  Wells  was  speaking, 
and  I  am  sure  he  will  not  be  offended  if  I  interpret  what  he  said  from 
my  point  of  view,  for  we  have  worked  together  now  eleven  years  and 
have  had  no  difficulty  or  misunderstanding  during  that  time.  Bishop 
Wells  said  that  he  was  sorry  that  it  was  necessary  to  hold  basket 
ball  games  and  dances  in  our  meeting  houses,  and  I  agree  with  him  fully 
on  that  point,  but  while  he  regretted  that  it  is  necessary  to  use  our 
meetinghouses  for  such  purposes,  I  believe  he  did  not  intend  to  leave 
the  impression  that  we  should  not  have  these  amusements.  He  in- 
tended to  impress  upon  us  the  importance  of  having  these  amusements 
when  occasion  requires,  directed  by  the  proper  influence ;  so  that,  after 
a  dance  or  after  a  basket  ball  game,  the  young  people  would  enter  the 
house  having  in  their  hearts  a'desire  to  serve  God  and  a  reverence  for 
the  building.  We  may  have  our  dances  in  our  meetinghouses  when 
occasion  requires,  and  I  believe  dances  are  good  when  conducted  prop- 
erly, but  bad  when  left  without  supervision.  I  think  that  is  what  he 
said,  in  different  words.  Basket  ball  games  are  necessary,  and  I  would 
dislike  to  deprive  the  boys  of  the  privilege  of  playing  when  the  meet- 
inghouse is  the  only  place  where  they  can  go  to"  play.  I  would  say,  let 
them  go  there,  but  let  us  have  that  place  so  guarded  that  during  the 
whole  play  those  boys  have  in  their  hearts  a  spirit  of  reverence  and  of 
brotherly  love,  and  not  a  spirit  of  contention,  which  breeds  hatred  in 
their  hearts.  Now,  I  think  we  agree  to  that  extent,  and  I  would  like 
to  see  in  all  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  as  Brother  Wells  said,  a  spirit 
of  reverence  and  worship,  a  spirit  of  brotherly  love,  in  our  dances,  and 
in  our  games,  and  have  it  continue  with  us  and  go  with  us  on  the  Sab- 
bath day  and  other  days  when  we  enter  the  Church  for  the  purpose 
of  worship  or  otherwise. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  one  subject  tnat  has  weighed 
more  heavily  upon  me,  I  believe,  than  anything  else.  I  touched  upon  it 
briefly  in  our  priesthood  meeting,  last  night ;  and  since  that  time  I  have 
tried  to  think  of  some  topic  I  might  speak  upon,  if  I  should  be  called 
upon  to  address  another  gathering  at  this  conference.   And  each  time 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH.  135 

I  have  tried  to  concentrate  on  some  other  subject,  my  mind  has  reverted 
to  that  one  thought,  the  priesthood,  and  I  am  satisfied  in  my  heart  that 
many  of  us  do  not  realize  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  as  par- 
ents and  as  men  holding  the  holy  Priesthood.  Do  we  read  the  scrip- 
ture ?  Do  we  read  it  in  our  homes  ?  Do  we  read  it  to  our  children  ?  I 
think  the  answer  is,  many  of  us  do  not.  As  ward  authorities  do  we 
provide  work  for  the  young  men  in  our  wards?  Do  we  as  mothers 
and  fathers  see  to  it  that  our  boys  and  our  girls  are  reared  properly, 
and  that  we  are  rendering  every  assistance  possible  in  helping  the  ward 
authorities  to  so  train  our  children  that  they  will  grow  up  to  be  of  ben- 
efit to  the  Church  ?  I  am  satisfied,  through  the  observation  I  have  been 
able  to  make,  that  the  cause  of  men  and  women  becoming  indifferent 
to  this  work,  in  their  later  years,  is  due  to  the  fact  that  their  training 
in  their  childhood  has  not  been  sufficient  to  give  them  a  strong  foun- 
dation upon  which  the  remainder  of  their  lives  might  be  built. 

I  was  thinking  this  morning  of  the  difference  in  the  condition  of 
today  and  of  a  few  years  ago.  I  remember  the  time  when  it  was  my 
duty,  with  others,  to  clean  and  oil  the  lamps  on  Saturdays,  and  put 
them  in  place  ready  for  the  Sabbath  meeting.  I  remember  getting  up 
on  Sunday  morning,  going  to  the  meeting  house,  helping  build  the  fires, 
then  returning  home  and  changing  clothes,  and  getting  ready  to  go  to 
Sunday  school.  I  believe  I  enjoyed  the  Sunday  school  far  more  than 
the  boys  do  today,  who  go  to  a  building  which  has  been  cleaned  and 
heated  by  a  janitor  who  is  paid  for  the  service.  As  one  of  the  speakers 
said  yesterday,  wouldn't  it  be  a  good  thing  for  us  in  this  day  if  the 
boys  could  have  something-  to  do,  some  responsibility,  something  to 
make  them  feel  that  there  is  a  place  for  them  in  the  Church,  and  a  work 
for  them  to  do — a  condition  we  are  growing  from? 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  bap- 
tism, and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  when 
eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents;  for  this  shall  be  a 
law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organ- 
ized; and  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  and  they  shall 
also  teach  their  children  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord. 
And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall,  also,  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy.  And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall,  also,  remember  their  labors, 
inasmuch  as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness;  for  the  idler 
shall  be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord.  Now,  I  the  Lord,  am  not 
well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for  there  are  idlers  among  them; 
and  their  children  are  also  growing  up  in  wickedness;  they  also  seek  not 
earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are  full  of  greediness.  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  68:25-31.) 

i 

Let  us  look  into  our  own  lives,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  see  if 
these  conditions  exist  to  a  certain  extent  right  in  our  midst,  and  perhaps 
in  our  own  homes !  If  they  do,  what  are  we  doing  to  overcome  them? 
What  are  we  doing  to  build  up  this  Church  ?   What  are  we  doing  to 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


enjoy  in  our  homes  and  in  our  meeting  houses  that  spirit  of  reverence 
and  of  worship  spoken  of  by  rBishop  Wells?  Many  of  us  remain  at 
home  on  the  Sabbath  day.to  do  things  we  choose  to  do  rather  than  doing 
the  things  we  know  in  our  hearts  the  Lord  desires  us  to  do.  The  most 
important  work  we  can  engage  in  as  Latter-day  Saints,  is  the  proper 
training  of  our  children,  by  precept  and  example-  Let  us  see  to  it  that 
they  have  work  to  do,  and  that  they  are  doing  that  work. 

I  think  that  in  many  of  our  wards  we  are  permitting  the  boy 
scouts  to  usurp,  or  assume  to  do,  the  duty  that  should  be  done  by  the 
deacons  in  the  Church  .  I  deplore  this  fact.  Not  that  I  have  anything 
to  say  against  the  splendid  work  of  the  boy  scouts.  It  is  a  noble  work, 
and  it  will  make  of  them  better  boys,  if  they  follow  its  teachings.  At 
the  same  time,  I  do  not  care  to  see  them,  as  scouts,  doing  the  work  re- 
quired of  those  holding  the  Priesthood,  because  the  Priesthood  is  God- 
given.  It  is  God's  power  conferred  upon  them  through  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  those  having  authority  from  God,  and  it  comes  to  them  as  their 
commission,  and  nothing  else  can  take  its  place,  or  ishould  assume  to 
do  it's  work.  And  O,  I  do  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will, 
with  all  our  might,  work  to  the  end  that  our  boys  will  have  work  to  do 
in  the  Priesthood. 

I  remember  when  I  was  ordained  a  teacher,  a  little  fellow  fifteen 
years  of  age,  I  was  assigned  to  labor  with  an  elderly  brother,  a  man 
of  experience,  a  man  of  judgment  and  training,  who  took  me  with  him 
and  taught  me  things  I  should  know.  I  accompanied  him  into  the 
homes  of  the  Saints.  I  had  very  little  to  do  except  to  learn,  and  O,  that 
experience  has  been  one  of  the  grandest  experiences  of  my  life;  and  I 
thank  God,  and  I  hope  I  will  continue  to  thank  him  as  long  as  I  live, 
for  the  opportunity  that  I  had  of  laboring  with  that  good  man.  He  was 
not  afraid  or  ashamed  to  take  a  little  boy  with  him  into  the  homes  of 
the  Saints  where  he  was  going  to  perform  his  duty  as  a  teacher. 

Just  a  short  time  ago  my  attention  was  called  to  a  case  where  a 
young  man  had  just  been  ordained  a  teacher,  and  was  assigned  to  go 
with  another  man  of  mature  years  to  visit  homes  of  the  Saints.  This 
man  refused  to  have  the  boy  accompany  him.  He  said,  "I  am  not 
going  teaching  with  kids.  If  you  can't  give  me  someone  who  is  worthy, 
as  a  companion,  I  will  not  go  out  teaching."  I  thought,  O,  my  brother, 
if  only  you  could  have  had  the  experience  as  a  boy  that  I  had,  you 
wouldn't  have  spoken  that  way ;  think  of  the  opportunity  you  have  lost. 
■  Where  in  all  the  world  can  we  find  any  one  more  suited  to  be  a  com- 
panion than  a  young  man  who  is  "clean,  energetic,  willing  to  serve 
God,  and  to  learn,  though  he  be  young  in  years? 

Let  us  not  neglect  the  youth  of  Zion.  Let  us  not  neglect  the  boy 
who  has  been  ordained  to  the  office  of  a  deacon.  Let  us  find  work  for 
him  to  do.  The  duties  of  the  elder,  the  priest,  the  teacher  and  the  dea- 
con, I  want  to  impress  them  upon  you.  ,  The  duty,  not  the  privilege — 
this  may  be  done  or  it  may  not  be  done.  You  can  do  it.  if  you  please ; 
you  may  fail  or  neglect  it  if  you  don't  want  to  do  it-  Not  that,  but  the 
duty.    O,  how  many  of  us  have  .forgotten  that  word,  the  duty  under 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  MCCUNE. 


137 


the  Priesthood.  I  am  not  going  to  take  time  to  read  what  these  duties 
are.  We  all  know  (at  least  those  who  have  received  the  Priesthood 
know)  what  our  duties  are;  and  if  we  don't  know,  then  we  have  been 
ordained  unworthily;  for  no  man  should  be  ordained  to  the  Priest- 
hood until  he  knows  what  the  duties  of  the  Priesthood  are.  No  man 
is  worthy  of  the  Priesthood  unless  he  knows  what  its  duties  are,  and 
unless  he  is  willing  to  work  with  all  his  might  under  that  responsibility. 
Many  of  us  elders,  seventies,  priests,  are  failing  to  do  our  duty,  because 
we  are  neglecting  those  who  are  teachers  and  deacons  in  this  Church. 

I  stood  upon  the  street  the  day  President  Wilson  was  here,  and 
saw  troops  of  boy  scouts  come  up  the  street.  As  they  passed  their 
scout  masters,  in  every  case  their  hands  came  to  salute,  and  what  re- 
spect !  These  boys  in  uniform,  the  scouts :  why  do  they  do  this  ?  Who 
has  taught  them  to  look  upon  their  scout  master  with  such  deserved 
respect?  And  I  thought,  what  a  glorious  thing  it  would  be  for  the 
boy,  a  deacon,  if  he  could  be  taught  to  offer  the  president  of  his  dea- 
cons' quorums  and  his  counselors  such  respect.  What  a  glorious  thing 
it  would  be  if,  when  passing  along  the  street,  our  deacons,  teachers  and 
priests  would  tip  their  hats  as  they  pass  their  bishop  or  his  counselors. 
How  many  of  them  have  proper  respect  for  their  bishop  ?  How  many 
of  them  look  upon  their  bishop  as  being  a  man  who  should  have  their 
respect?  *I  am  afraid  too  few  of  us  have  in  our  hearts  this  feeling  and 
this  spirit ;  but  I  do  hope  and  pray  that  the  day  will  soon  come  when 
every  young  man  in  this  Church,  who  has  been  called  to  the  lesser 
Priesthood,  and  honored  with  that  sacred  and  holy  calling,  will  honor 
that  Priesthood,  and  will  honor  the  men  who  bear  that  Priesthood,  and 
who  are  called  to  positions  of  authority  in  the  wards  and  stakes. 

I  would  like  to  see  the  day  come,  as  Brother  Wells  said,  when  boys 
will  have  in  their  hearts  at  all  times,  a  feeling  of  reverence  for  the  meet- 
ing house  and  grounds.  I  would  like  to  see  boys  taught  that  it  is  their 
duty,  when  upon  the  street,  or  whenever  they  pass  their  bishop,  out  of 
respect  for  the  Priesthood  he  bears,  to  raise  their  hats  to  him-  Wouldn't 
it  make  better  boys  of  them,  and  wouldn't  it  make  a  better  "man  of 
their  bishop?   I  believe  it  would. 

O,  let  us  feel  the  responsibility  of  the  Priesthood  that  rests  upon 
us,  my  brethren.  Let  us  feel  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  of 
building  .upon  the  foundation  that  has  been  laid ;  for  if  we  fail  in 
training  the  youth  of  Zion,  that  failure  will  be  charged  against  us, 
which  I  pray  God,  will  not  be,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang:  "  We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for 
a  Prophet." 

ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters.  I  have  enjoyed  very  much  being 
with  you  this  morning,  and  while  I  realize  it  is  indeed  an  honor  to  be 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


called  to  stand  before  a  congregation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
address  them,  I  must  confess  I  cannot  fully  appreciate  that  honor.  I 
assure  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  stood  throughout  this  meet- 
ing, they  are  just  as  comfortable  at  the  present  time  as  I  am.  I  desire 
that  you  will  help  me  by  your  faith  and  prayers  while  I  stand  before 
you. 

I  indorse  without  reservation  all  that  my  brethren  have  said.  T1, 
have  given  us  so  many  good  thoughts  that  we  cannot  go  from  here  feel- 
ing that  we  have  not  been  fed  with  the  bread  of  life.  I  have  learned 
to  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  we  come  together  to 
worship  the  Lord,  the  responsibility  is  not  all  upon  those  who  preside 
at  the  meeting,  nor  is  all  the  responsibility  upon  those  who  address  us. 
There  is  a  responsibility  upon  each  and  every  one  of  us.  For  if  we 
come  together  with  a  real  desire  in  our  hearts  to  worship  the  Lord,  our 
God,  he  will  do  his  part  and  he  will  feed  us  with  the  bread  of  life 
though  it  may  be  through  a  stammering  tongue. 

I  desire  to  emphasize  one  thought  that  Brother  Wells  spoke  of. 
He  suggested  that  we  put  spirit  into  our  worship.  Oh,  what  an  impor- 
tant thing  this  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  suggest  that  we  put  spirit 
into  our  lives,  into  our  very  existence,  that  we  do  not  go  through  life 
in  a  listless  way,  but  that  we  have  spirit  in  all  that  we  do.  This  is  the 
thing  the  world  is  crying  for.  You  go  to  the  manufacturer,  the  busi- 
ness man ;  leaders  everywhere  are  calling  for  spirit.  They  do  not  call 
it  spirit;  of  course,  not;  they  call  it  in  the  modern  slang  "pep."  They 
have  called  it  enthusiasm,  and  ginger,  and  push,  and  now  they  call  it 
"pep."  It  is  spirit,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  is  one  of  the  most 
important  things  in  life.  Someone  has  said  that  eighty  per  cent  of  suc- 
cess is  enthusiasm,  and  I  believe  it.  And  I  believe  that  eighty  per 
cent  of  our  success  is  spirit,  the  spirit  with  which  we  do  things,  the 
spirit  with  which  we  endeavor  to  do  the  things  that  Brother  Smith  has 
been  advising  us  to  do  as  parents,  for  parenthood  is  indeed  a  responsi- 
bility, and  if  we  strive  to  teach  our  sons  and  daughters  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  with  spirit,  I  believe  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and 
we  will  be  successful  in  a  great  measure. 

If  when  we  come  together,  we  will  put  spirit  into  all  features  of 
our  worship,  as  we  did  into  the  song  we  have  just  sung,  what  a  won- 
derful thing  it  would  be !  If  I  had  received  nothing  else  than  that  one 
hymn  we  have  just  sung,  with  spirit,  I  would  have  been  fed  'with  the 
bread  of  life.  Brethren  and  sisters,  take  part  In  all  the  features  of  our 
worship.  When  we  come  together,  let  us  strive  to  cast  out  from  our 
hearts  everything  that  is  contrary  to  sincere  worship  of  God.  Let  us 
seek  earnestly  to  be  truly  humble,  have  a  desire  to  have  our  souls  fed. 
If  we  do  this,  I  know  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us.  When  we  are  in  this 
attitude,  there  is  no  room  in  our  hearts  for  hatred  or  for  jealousy  or 
anything  of  that  kind;  there  is  true  love  in  our  hearts.  And  when  we 
get  true  love  in  our  hearts  we  are  being  fed  with  the  bread  of  life. 

There  is  so  much  of  the  spirit  of  criticism,  destructive  criticism, 
in  the  world  today,  that,  as  Latter-day  Saints  we'  cannot  afford'  to  give 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE. 


139 


way  to  this  spirit,  not  for  one  minute.  When  we  get  this  spirit  in  our 
hearts — that  spirit  of  hatred  and  malice,  we  are  crowding  out  that 
beautiful  spirit  of  which  I  have  spoken,  that  spirit  of  brotherly  love, 
which  is  the  Spirit  of  God.  So,  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  come 
together  let  us  put  spirit  into  our  worship  in  every  feature  of  it ;  when 
an  elder  is  called  upon  to  pray,  let  us  follow  him  very  closely  in  every 
word  he  repeats,  for  remember,  he  is  but  the  mouthpiece  for  each  and 
every  one  of  us,  and  if  we  do  not  take  part  in  the' prayer,  we  are  not 
doing  our  duty,  and  we  are  not  entitled  to  the  blessing  of  that  prayer. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  know  how  to  pray.  I  do  not  mean  to 
say  I  can  tell  you  how  it  is  done  but  I  have  lived,  lo  these  forty  years 
and  upwards,  and  am  just  beginning  to  learn  how  to  pray.  And  oh, 
my  brethren  and  sisters1,  I  exhort  you  and  myself  to  learn  how  to  pray. 
As  I  said,  I  am  just  beginning  to  learn  the  beauty  of  prayer,  and  it  is  a 
wonderful  blessing  to  be  alone  and  strive  with  all  your  heart  to  pray. 
"Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire,"  and  it  is  a  wonderful  thing  to 
express  that  desire  to  our  Father  in  heaven  and  feel  to  a  slight  degree 
that  we  are  approaching  our  Father  in  heaven  in  such  a  way  that  he 
desires  to  come  near  unto  us.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing ;  and  we  should 
not  think  of  praying  without  spirit — in  a  listless  way,  but  think  of  it 
with  spirit,  and  put  our  hearts  and  souls  into  it,  and  it  will  bring  bless- 
ings to  us. 

And  when  anyone  is  addressing  us,  let  us  put  spirit  into  the 
thought  with  which  we  follow  him,  and  we  will  be  blessed  in  doing  it. 
We  will  not  go  to  sleep,  not  at  all ;  we  will  be  interested  in  what  they 
say. 

And  then,  when  we  have  the  privilege  of  joining  with  our  breth- 
ren and  sisters  in  congregational  singing,  put  spirit  into  it.  It  is  a 
wonderful  thing  to  put  spirit  into  our  music;  it  means  so  much.  A 
hymn  sung  without  spirit  does  not  mean  anything  at  all.  Like  every- 
thing else,  it  means  nothing  unless  this  spirit  is  in  it,  and  then  it  is 
wonderful.  It  would  thrill"  our  very  souls  if  all  this  congregation  would 
put  spirit  to  the  fullest  extent  into  our  hymns ;  these  very  walls  would 
vibrate. 

And  so,  in  all  our  worship  and  in  all  we  do,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, put  spirit  into  it.  As  I  said  in  the  beginning,  that  is  what  the 
world  desires,  that  is  what  they  are  starving  for.  There  is  so  much 
indifference  in  the  world  and  listlessness ;  and  we  cannot  develop  like 
unto  our  Father  in  heaven,  while  in  listlessness.  We  are  created  in 
the  image  of  our  Father  in  heaven ;  therefore,  we  have  a  wonderful 
thing  to  do.  The  Savior  said,  "Be  ye  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  in 
heaven  is  perfect."  We  are  destined  to  become  like  unto  our  heavJ 
enly  Father;  and  we  cannot  do  this  mighty  work  in  indifference  and 
indolence,  we  must  put  spirit  into  it,  into  every  part  of  our  life's  work. 

These  words  of  exhortation,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  to 
apply  to  myself,  even  more  than  to  any  one  of  you.  You  will  pardon 
me  if  I  seem  to  speak  hurriedly;  this  congregation  is  so  much  better 
than  I  am  accustomed  to  speaking  to  on  the  street  corners  in  the  big 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cities  of  the  East  where  we  talk  loud  and  fast  with  a  desire  to  stop  the 
passers  by.  It  is  the  most  successful  way  for  me  to  reach  them.  If  I 
talk  fast  for  a  few  minutes,  and  earnestly,  I  get  a  few  hearers,  and 
when  I  get  a  few,  others  will  come  to  listen.  Then  I  can  slow  up  and 
be  a  little  more  deliberate.  I  suppose  I  will  never  learn  to  be  delib- 
erate when  I  stand  before  the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  I  do  get  very 
much  excited. 

Now,  I  desire  to  say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  your  sons 
and  daughters  who  have  been  sent  into  the  Eastern  States  Mission, 
with  very  few  exceptions,  are  doing  a  very  splendid  work.  I  love 
them  every  one ;  and  I  would  like  to  meet  their  fathers  and  mothers  and 
their  wives  and  sons  and  daughters ;  as  many  as  are  here  today,  I 
desire  to  assure  you  of  their  well  being,  and  they  send  to  you  a  mes- 
sage of  love  and  good  cheer.  Their  only  anxiety  is  for  their  loved 
ones  at  home,  and  if  you  will  send  them  a  cheerful  message,  I  am  sure 
they  will  continue  to  develop  and  progress  satisfactorily  in  the  min- 
istry. 

You  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  but  few  experienced 
missionaries  in  the  field  today.  A  great  majority  of  our  workers  are 
new  and  young  and  inexperienced  in  ,the  ministry.  I  think  we  should 
speak  of  our  weaknesses  as  well  as  our  strength ;  therefore  I  am  going 
to  mention  one  of  our  weaknesses — and  I  do  it  in  sweet  humility,  for 
I  may  be  as  guilty  of  it  as  any  of  you;  but  I  desire  to  point  it  out, 
with  the  earnest  desire  in  my  heart  that  it  may  lead  to  an  improve- 
ment along  this  line.  It  is  a  reproach  to  us  as  a  people  to  find  so 
many  of  these  splendid  young  men  and  women  coming  out  into  the 
world  as  messengers  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  without  a  knowledge 
of  the  gospel.  That  is  a  sad  reproach  upon  us.  I  do  not  mean  to 
say  that  I  can  tell  you  how  it  can  be  remedied,  except  by  carrying  out 
the  instructions  Brother  Smith  has  read  to  us ;  but  I  believe  if  we  will  do 
this,  we  will  be  blessed  to  a  certain  degree  in  getting  our  young  peo- 
ple to  learn  something  about  the  gospel  of  Christ.  It  is  indeed  a  sad 
spectacle  to  see  a  splendid  young  man  or  young  woman  come  out  into 
the  mission  field  and  after  they  have  been  given  instructions  as  to 
what  they  are  expected  to  do,  to  have  them  come  to  their  conference 
president  or  the  president  of  the  mission,  and,  with  tears  in  their  eyes, 
confess  that  they  know  very  little  about  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  yet 
they  have  been  sent  out  as  teachers. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  see  if.  we  cannot  improve 
this  condition.  It  is  a  fact  that  many  in  the  world  know  a  great  deal 
more  about  the  gospel  than  do  these  teachers  whom  we  have  sent  out. 
We  know  that  the  Lord  makes  no  requirements  at  the  hands  of  any 
servant  except  he  provides  a  way  for  the  accomplishment  of  that  thing, 
and  it  is  very  gratifying  to  see  how  the  Lord  does  bless  and  mag- 
nify these  young  men  and  women  when  they  apply  themselves  to  learn- 
ing the  gospel  and  teaching  it,  and  I  am  glad  to  report  they  are  de- 
veloping wonderfully  well.  Even  some  of  these  young  men  and  women 
who  come  out  and  confess  that  they  know  nothing  about  the  gospel, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH.  141 


after  they  have  been  there  two  or  three  months  studying  the  gospel — 
without  a  feeling  of  boasting  at  all,  I  would  not  be  afraid  to  have 
them  meet  any  of  the  ministers  of  religion.  Our  cause  is  not  suffer- 
ing; the  Lord  does  bless  them;  they  are  in  the  school  of  the  Lord, 
not  in  'the  school  of  man,  and  they  are  being  taught  by  the  Lord7  in 
the  school  of  the  prophets,  as  it  were,  and  the  Lord  is  with  them  and 
does  bless  them ;  the  work  is  progressing  as  satisfactorily  as  we  could 
expect. 

I  am  glad  to  note  a  wonderful  improvement  in  the  sentiment 
prevailing  among  mankind  compared  with  twenty  years  ago  when  I 
was  upon  my  former  mission.  It  seems  the  little  leaven  is  gradually 
leavening  the  lump. 

The  brethren  have  spoken  of  amusements  in  our  Church.  We 
believe,  of  course,  in  all  rightful,  legitimate,  and  helpful  amusements. 
They  are  necessary  for  our  well-being  and  good.  It  was  only  a  few 
years  ago  when  certain  religious  denominations  looked  upon  the 
thought  of  dancing  and  such  other  things  with  horror.  I  'say  the  little 
leaven  is  beginning  to  leaven  the  lump:  the  staid  old  Methodists  in  a 
national  or  international  assembly  of  their  representatives  have  decided 
to  introduce  dancing  among  their  young  people  as  a  means  of  draw- 
ing them  into  and  holding  them  in  the  church.  I  do  not  mention  this 
to  encourage  dancing  in  our  midst,  in  fact  I  think  some  .of  it  needs 
curtailing,  but  it  is  all  right  when  conducted  under  the  proper  influ- 
ence and  spirit. 

My  heart  is  full  of  good  cheer  and  good  wishes  for  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I«know  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  in  our  over- 
flow meeting  today.  We  can  all  find  consolation  in  the  fact  that  when 
the  vessel  is  filled  with  milk,  the  cream  comes  to  the  top,  and  so  it  is 
the  cream  that  overflows ;  and  we  are  in  the  overflow  meeting.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  here,  and  the  brethren  who  have  preceded  me 
have  spoken  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  if  we  each  do  our 
duty,  we  will  be  just  as  well  fed  with  the  bread  of  life  as  if  we  were 
in  the  Tabernacle  with  the  rest  of  our  brethren  and  sisters. 

Let  us  seek  for  the  Soirit  of  the  Lord,  that  the  spirit  of  malice 
and  criticism  may  not  gfet  hold  of  us,  that  it  may  not  crowd  out  the 
good  things  from  our  lives  that  we  are  entitled  to. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  that  his  peace  and  blessings  may  continue 
to  be  with  and  upon  these  good  men  who  lead  us,  that  we  may  uphold 
and  sustain  them  bv  our  faith  and  pravers  and  good  works.  In  doing 
this,  we  are  honoring  our  Father  in  heaven  and  helping  each  other. 
May  the  Lord  help  us  to  this  end,  I  earnestly  "ask,  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  know  we  have  all  been  very  much  interested  in  the  remarks  of 
the  brethren  who  have  spoken. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AN  IMPORTANT  COMMANDMENT  ON  PRAYER. 

I  desire  to  begin  the  remarks  that  I  shall  make,  where  Bishop 
Smith  left  off,  in  his  reading  of  Sec.  68  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

And  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them  (that  is,  unto  the  parents  in 
Zion),  that  he  that  observeth  not  his  prayers  before  the  Lord  in  the  season 
thereof,  let  him  be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  judge  of  my  people. 

i 

I  do  not  suppose  that  we  have  read  that  verse  in  this  section  any 
too  much,  and  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  realize  how  important  this 
command  really  is.  No  man  can  retain  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  unless  he 
prays.  No  man  can  have  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  unless  in 
his  heart  is  found  this  spirit  of  prayer.  We  are  commanded  in  the 
scriptures  to  seek  the  Lord,  to  praise  his  holy  name,  to  labor  diligently, 
that  his  spirit  may  abide  with  us.  The  disciples  came  to  the  Master, 
and  said  unto  him,  "Lord,  teach  us  to  pray."  And  he  did  so,  and  there 
are  some  good  people  in  the  world,  who,  because  the  Lord  gave  that 
prayer,  feel  that  on  all  occasions  and  at  all  times  when  they  pray,  they 
should  use  that  prayer  and  nothing  else.  But  that  prayer  was  given  only 
to  teach,  and  not  with  the  idea  that  no  other  words  should  be  used,  no 
other  thoughts  should  be  expressed,  but  to  impress  upon  the  disciples 
that  they  should  make  their  prayers  concise  and  to  the  point,  and  ask 
for  those  things  which  they  most  desired  in  righteousness,  at  all  times 
thanking  the  Lord  for  his  mercies  and  goodness  unto  them. 

Now  I  want  to  dwell  upon  this  passage  for  a  moment  or  two. 
It  states  here  that  "he  that  observes  not  his  prayers  before  the  Lord 
in  the  season  thereof"  is  to  be  had  in  remembrance.  What  is  the 
season  of  prayer? 

ALL    SEASONS    ARE    FOR  PRAYER. 

Some  of  us  may  have  the  idea  that  the  season  of  prayer  is  when 
we  arise  in  the  morning,  and  when  we  are  about  to  retire  at  night  when 
our  work  is  done,  and  that  there  is  no  other  season  for  prayer.  But 
I  say  unto  you,  and  I  have  good  backing  for  it,  that  the  season  for 
prayer  is  always.  Let  me  read  it  to  you.  You  know  I  like  to  prove 
what  I  say ;  I  like  to  bring  witnesses  to  bear  on  that  which  I  express, 
and  I  do  not  ask  the  people  to  accept  that  which  I  say  unless  it  is. 
in  harmony,  absolutely,  with  what  the  Lord  has  said  either  directly  or 
through  his  prophets.  We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  word  of 
Alma  to  the  poor  Zoramites  who  had  departed  from  the  truth,  and 
having  been  cast  out  of  their  synagogues,  because  they  were  poor,  and 
feeling  that  they  could  only  pray  one  at  a  time  as  they  ascended  in 
the  rameumptom,  as  it  is  called,  they  knew  not  what  to  do.  Alma 
taught  them  as  follows  : 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  for  mercy,  for  he  is  mighty  to  save;  yea,  humble 
yourselves  and  continue  in  prayer  unto  him;  cry  unto  him  when  ye  are  in 


I 

( 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH.  143 

your  fields,  yea,  over  all  your  flocks;  cry  unto  him  in  your  houses,  yea,  over 
all  your  household,  both  morning,  mid-day,  and  evening;  yea,  cry  unto  him 
against  the  power  of  your  enemies;  yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  devil,  who 
is  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness.  Cry  unto  him  over  the  crops  of  your 
fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  them;  cry  over  the  flocks  of  your  fields,  that 
they  may  increase.  But  this  is  not  all;  ye  must  pour  out  your  souls  in 
your  closets  and  your  secret  places  and  in  your  wilderness;  yea,  and  when 
you  do  not  cry  unto  the  Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full,  drawn  out  in  prayer 
unto  him  continually  for  your  welfare,  and  also  for  the  welfare  of  those 
who  are  around  you.  And  now,  behold,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  say  unto  you, 
do  not  suppose  this  is  all,  for  after  ye  have  done  all  these  things,  if  ye  turn 
away  the  needy  and  the  naked,  and  visit  not  the  sick  and  afflicted,  and 
impart  of  your  substance,  if  ye  have,  to  those  who  stand  in  need;. I  say  unto 
you,  if  ye  do  not  anything  of  these  things,  behold,  your  prayer  is  vain  and 
availeth  you  nothing,  and  ye  are  as  hypocrites  who  deny  the  faith. 

I  think  that  is  very  excellent  doctrine,  and  I  read  it  to  impress 
upon  your  minds  the  season  of  prayer.  The  season  of  prayer  is  in  the 
morning  before  the  family  separates.  A  good  time  for  prayer  is  when 
you  assemble  at  the  table  before  you  partake  of  the  morning  meal,  and 
let  the  members  of  the  family  take  turn  in  the  praying.  That  is  the 
season  of  prayer.  The  season  of  prayer  for  the  merchant  is  in  the 
morning  when  he  goes  to  his  place  of  business  and  before  he  begins  his 
day's  work,  over  his  merchandise.  The  time  of  prayer  for  the  shep- 
herd, is  when  he  is  out  with  his  flocks  watching  over  them.  The 
time  for  the  farmer  to  pray  is  when  he  goes  with  his  plow  into 
the  field,  when  he  goes  to  sow  his  grain,  and  when  he  goes  to 
gather  his  harvest.  And  if  a  man  will  pray  as  he  is  commanded  to  do 
in  this  passage  of  scripture  which  I  have  read,  then  he  more  than  likely 
will  be  found  in  all  things  righteously  keeping  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord.  He  will  not  be  found  scheming  to  take  advantage  of  his  neigh- 
bor in  some  trade  or  bargain,  but  in  all  things  dealing  justly,  because 
he  has  prayed  in  the  morning  and  has  in  his  heart  the  spirit  of  prayer 
throughout  the  day,  that  the  Lord  will  bless  him  in  the  increase  of  his 
goods,  of  his  fields,  of  his  flocks,  or  whatever  it  may  be  he  is  engaged  in. 
So  that  is  the  season  of  prayer. 

WHO  DOES  NOT  PRAY  IS  TO  BE  HELD  IN  REMEMBRANCE  BEFORE  THE  JUDGE 

But  there  is  something  more  in  this.  It  says,  that  the  person  in 
Zion  or  any  of  her  stakes,  for  that  is  the  way  it'  reads  further  up  in 
this  revelation,  who  does  not  pray  before  the  Lord  in  the  season 
thereof,  is  to  be  held  in  remembrance< before  the  judge  of  the  people. 

THE  TEACHERS  TO  SEE  THAT  THE  PEOPLE  PRAY. 

Now  who  is  the  judge  of  the  people?  It  is  your  bishop.  It  is 
the  duty  of  the  teachers  who  come  into  your  home  to  teach  you  and 
see  that  you  pray.  If  you  are  not  a  praying  man  or  a  praying  woman, 
then  they  have  the  right  according  to  the  law  to  take  that  message  to 
the  bishop  of  the  ward,  and  tell  him  that  you  are  not  praying  in  your 


\ 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

homes,  and  he  can  hold  you  in  remembrance,  and  if  you  refuse  to 
pray  when  you  are  taught ;  if  you  will  not  hearken  to  the  counsels  of 
the  teachers  or  of  the  common  judge,  then  he  has  the  right  according 
to  the  law  to  take  action  against  you  for  your  fellowship  in  the  Church, 
if  he  deems  it  wise.  That  is  within  his  rights.  The  Lord  has  said 
it,  and  he  said  it  because  he  wanted  to  impress  upon  our  minds  the 
importance  of  prayer. 

It  would  be  a  wonderful  thing,  of  course,  if  all  our  brethren  hold- 
ing the  lesser  Priesthood  would  magnify  their  callings,  and  if  the  bish- 
ops in  the  wards  would  see  that  they  do,  and  give  them  some  labor  to 
perform.-  That  ought  to  be  done. 

What  is  the  duty  of  the  teacher?  As  we  read  here  in  section  20 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  was  given  the  day  the  Church 
was  organized,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  teacher  to  visit  the  homes  of  the 
people,  to  teach  them,  to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church; 
that  there  is  no  fault-finding  one  with  another,  no  backbiting,  no  false 
speaking  one  against  another,  and,  more  than  that,  to  see  that  the  mem- 
bers, of  the  Church  perform  their  duty.  That  great  responsibility  rests 
upon  the  teacher.  He  is  to  see  that  the  members  pray,  that  they  fast 
upon  -the  fast  day,  that  they  are  paying  their  tithing  in  the  season 
thereof,  that  they  are  attending  their  fast  meeting  in  the  ward,*  week 
by  week,  and  all  these  things  are  required  of  the  teacher  as  he  visits  in 
the  homes  of  the  people.  And  if  the  teacher  does  not  see  .  to  these 
things;  then  the  sin  lieth  at  his  door. 

DUTIES  OF  THE  PRIESTS. 

What  are  the  duties  of  the  priest?  The  duty  of  the  priest  is  to 
preach,  teach,  expound,  exhort,  baptize,  and  administer  the  sacra- 
ment. He  is  to  visit  the  house  of  each  member  and  exhort  all  to 
pray,  vocally  and  in  secret,  and  attend  to  all  family  duties.  That  is 
the  duty  of  the  priest. 

Now  the  good  bishops  in  the  wards  should  see  that  their  priests 
go  into  the  homes  of  the  people,  and  do  this  very  thing,  teaching  the 
members  in  the  spirit  of  prayer.  When  they  find  an  individual  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  who  fails  in  any  one  of  these  particulars,  it  is  the 
right  of  these  teachers  or  priests  to  make  the  report  to  the  bishop,  the 
common  judge.  However,  they  are  to  labor  diligently,  and  with  long 
suffering,  in  faith  and  humility,  with  these  members  who  do  not  see 
the  necessity  of  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  after 
they  have  done  all  in  their  power,  and  can  do  nothing  further  to  ibring 
the  non-praying  members  to  repentance,  the  common  judge  may  cite 
them  before  him,  and  he  has  the  right  to  take  action  against  them  for 
their  fellowship.  Of  course,  our  duty  is  to  save  souls.  We  must,  not 
be  hasty  in  casting  any  out.  So,  I  say,  after  the  teachers  or  the  priests 
have  done  all  that  can  be  done,  then  the  drastic  measures  may  be  meted 
out. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH. 


145 


ALL  AMUSEMENTS  SHOULD  BE  OPENED  BY  PRAYER. 

Another  scripture,  I  will  read  from  II  Nephi  32,  wherein  it 
says :  1  i 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  perceive  that  ye  ponder  still  in  your 
hearts,  and  it  grieveth  me  that  I  must  speak  concerning  this  thing.  For 
if  ye  would  hearken  unto  the  spirit  which  teacheth  a  man  to  pray,  ye  would 
know  that  ye  must  pray;  for  the  evil  spirit  teacheth  not  a  man  to  pray,  but 
teacheth  him  that  he  must  not  pray.  But  behold,  I  say  unto,  you,  that  ye 
must  pray  always,  and  not  faint;  that  ye  must  not  perform  any  thing  unto 
the  Lord,  save  in  the  first  place  ye  shall  pray  unto  the  Father  in  the  name 
of  Christ,  that  he  will  consecrate  the  performance  unto  thee,  that  thy  per- 
formance may  be  for  the  welfare  of  thy  soul. 

Have  we  any  right  as  Latter-day  Saints  who  profess  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  open  our  dances  without  prayer,  or 
other  amusements,  and  to  close  them  in  improper  hours  and  without 
prayer?  Have  we  that  right,  professing  to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord?  I  say  unto  you,  No.  It  makes 
no  difference  whether  it  is  pleasure,  whether  it  is  our  daily  labor, 
whether  it  is  the  service  of  the  Lord  in  teaching  the  gospel  and  try- 
ing to  save  mankind.  Whatever  it  may  be,  that  thing  should  be  con- 
secrated by  prayer,  and  every \  performance,  for  the  welfare  of  our 
souls. 

CONSEQUENCES  OF  FAILURE  TO  PRAY. 

Now  what  were  the  consequences  of  not  praying,  as  they  are 
recorded  in  this  book  regarding  the  Nephite  people?  Let  me  tell 'you. 
In  the  very  same  chapter,  and  in  the  verse  preceding  where  I  read, 
Nephi  says  this : 

Behold,  this  is  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  and  there  will  -be  no  more  doc- 
trine given  until  after  he  shall  manifest  himself  unto  you  in  the  flesh.  When 
he  shall  manifest  himself  unto  you  in  the  flesh,  the  things  which  he  shall 
say  unto  you  ye  shall  observe  to  do.    And  now  I,  Nephi,  cannot  say  more. 

Why  not?  Because  the  people  had  refused  to  pray.  Because 
they  had  hardened  their  hearts,  even  in  his  day.  Therefore  the  Lord 
closed  his  mouth,  and  said,  there  shall  be  no  more  doctrine  till  Christ 
comes,  so  far  as  you  are  concerned,  and  I  cannot  say  more,  because  the 
Lord  won't  permit  it. 

"The  spirit  stoppeth  mine  utterance,  and  I  am  left  to  mourn  be- 
cause of  the  unbelief  and  the  ignorance  and  the  stiffneckedness  of  men, 
for  they  will  not  search  knowledge  nor  understand  great  knowledge 
when  it  is  given  unto  them  in  plainness,  even  as  plain  as  word  can  be." 
Now  that  applies  in  our  day.  We  have  members  of  the  Church  to 
whom  this  ought  to  be  read.  They  are  not  here ;  they  do  not  come  to 
conference.  But  men  who  have  hardened  their  hearts,  men  who  will 
not  pray,  men  who  will  not  search  knowledge,  who  are  not  acquainted 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


with  the  revelations  of  God  as  they  have  been  made  known  unto  us  in 
these  books  and  given  unto  us  in  this  dispensation,  notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  the  knowledge  which  has  been  given  unto  us  is  plain  and 
easily  to  be  understood.  They  shut  their  hearts  against  it,  and  refuse 
to  search  and  to  find  that  which  the  Lord  has  declared,  which  is  for 
their  eternal  salvation  and  the  salvation  of  all  the  world.  Naturally 
such  people  are  in  darkness.    We  cannot  afford  to  do  that. 

THE-  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS  IS  FOR  ALL  THE  WORLD. 

The  Lord  has  given  so  many  revelations,  in  our  own  day.  We 
have  this  Doctrine  and  Covenants  full  of  them,  all  pertaining  unto  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  to  the  world.  .  For  this  is  not  our  book  alone. 
This  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  my  book  and  your  book;  but  more 
than  that,  it  belongs  to  all  the  world,  to  the  Catholics,  to  the  Presby- 
terians, to  the  Methodists,  to  the  infidel,  to  the  non-believer.  It  is  his 
book  if  he  will  accept  it,  if  he  will  receive  it.  The  Lord  has  given  it 
unto  the  world  for  their  salvation.  If  you  do  not  believe  it,  you  read 
the  first  section  in  this  book,  the  preface,  and  you  will  find  that  the 
Lord  has  sent  this  book  and  the  things  which  it  contains  unto  the 
people  afar  off,  on  the  islands  of  the  sea,  in  foreign  lands,  and  his 
voice  is  unto  all  people,  that  all  may  hear.  And  so  1  say  it  belongs  to 
all  the  world,  not  only  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  they  will  be 
judged  by  it,  and  you  will  be  judged  by  it.  We  will  all  be  judged  by  it, 
by  the  things  which  this  book  contains  and  by  the  things  which  the 
other  books  contain  which  are  holy  scripture,  which  the  Lord  has  given 
unto  us ;  and  if  we  fail  to  comprehend  these  things,  if  we  will  not 
search,  if  we  will  not  study,  if  we  will  not  take  hold  on  the  things  which 
the  Lord  has  revealed  unto  us,  then  his  condemnation  shall  rest  upon 
us,  and  we^hall  be  removed  from  his  presence  and  from  his  kingdom. 
And  I  say  that  in  all  soberness,  because  it  is  true. 

Now  there  is  no  time  to  say  more.  I  have  said  all,  perhaps,  I 
should ;  but  still  there  is  a  great  deal  more  that  could  be  said. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  home  feeling  a  determina- 
tion in  our  hearts  to  serve  the  Lord.  Remember  that  we  are  living 
in  a  critical  period  of  the  world's  history.  Great  events  are  before  us. 
The  Lord  in  his  mercy,  and  with  justice  and  judgment,  is  going  to 
cut  short  his  work  in  righteousness.  The  decrees  have  gone  forth, 
and  it  behooves  us  as  members  of  the  Church  to  be  united  and  to  serve 
him  and  keep  all  his  commandments.  This  I  pray  we  will  do,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem :    "Send  out  the  Light." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Joseph  A.  West. 


ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG. 


147 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

The  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  at  the  Assembly  Hall 
Sunday,  at  2  p.  m.  October  5,  1919.  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  presided.  Music  was  furnished 
by  the  Richards  ward  choir  of  the  Granite  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang:  "As  the  Dew  from  Heaven  Distilling,"  with 
solo  by  Ruby  Child. 

As  the  dew,  from  heaven  distilling, 

Gently  on  the  grass  descends, 
And  revives  it,  thus  fulfilling 

What  Thy  providence  intends, 

Let  Thy  doctrine,  Lord,  so  gracious, 

Thus  decending  from  above, 
Blest  by  Thee,  prove  efficacious 

To  fulfil  Thy  work  of  love. 

Lord,  behold  this  congregation; 

Precious  promises  fulfil; 
From  Thy  holy  habitation, 

Let'  the  dews  of  life  distil. 

Let  our  cry  come  up  before  Thee; 

Thy  sweet  Spirit  shed  around: 
So  the  people  shall  adore  Thee, 

And  confess  the  joyful  sound. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Levi  M.  Savage,  of  Woodruff,  Ariz. 

The  choir  sang:  "Grant  us  Peace,  O  Lord." 

The  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented  by  El- 
der George  F.  Richards,  as  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  unanimously  sus- 
tained. 

ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  Ensign  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  I  remember  once  to  have  heard  an 
anecdote  concerning  what  we  usually  term  a  sectarian  minister,  who 
stated  that  he  was  very  sorry  to  disappoint  the  congregation,  for  he 
had  not  had  time  to  prepare  a  sermon,  and  therefore  would  have  to 
rely  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  an  anecdote  that  illustrates,  in  part 
at  least,  the  distinction  between  the  churches  of  the  day  and  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  In  practically  all  Christian 
churches  it  is  the  practice  that  sermons  should  be  prepared  beforehand, 
whereas  in  bur  Church  we  are  told  that  aside  from  general  prepara- 
tion we  should  give  no  thought,  generally  speaking,  as  to  what  we 
should  say,  and  should  rely  upon  the  spirit  of  the  occasion,  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.    I  very  humbly  desire  that  to  my  own  meagre  abilities 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


there  may  be  added  the  influence  and  the  inspiration  of  that  Spirit  dur- 
ing the  time  alotted  to  me. 

The  Saints,  as  we  all  believe,  know  the  voice  of  the  shepherd. 
You  cannot  fool  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  talking  glittering  general- 
ities. A  man  may  speak  with  the  oratorical  gifts  of  a  Webster,  and 
if  he  have  not  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  Saints  know  it,  they  feel  it, 
and  are  not  fed  or  satisfied. 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  here  this  afternoon,  not  to  occupy  this 
position  (because  I  approach  the  performance  of  the  responsibilities 
thereof  with  a  sense  of  trepidation  amounting  almost  to  fear),  but 
I  am  happy  that  I  am  counted  among  the  membership  of  the  Church 
and  worthy  of  occupying  some  sort  of  a  position  in  that  Church. 

I  was  just  looking  over  that  wonderful  poem,  the  Seer,  written 
by  President  John  Taylor,  that  remarkable,  splendid  father  of  President 
Frank  Y.  Taylor  who  is  here  today.  I  find  written  there,  concerning 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  that 

He  shared  their  joys,  their  sorrows  too, 
He  loved  the  Saints,  he  loved  Nauvoo. 

I  have  been  away  from  this  people  long  enough  to  develop  a 
strong  love  for  the  Saints  of  God;  the  good- people  who. make  up  the 
congregations  of  the  Church  are  the  dearest  people  in  all  the  world  to 
you  and  to  me.  There  is  no  experience  that  touches  my  heart  more 
deeply  than  the  sight  of  the  face  of  a  good  old  brother  or  sister  whom 
T  have  known,  and  known  to  be  faithful,  for  many  vears.  I  share 
their  iovs  and  their  sorrows,  too/  I  deeply  love  the  Saints  and  their 
association,  and  am  proud  of  being  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints- 

I  was  thinking:  during  the  noon  hour  how  much  reason  we  all 
have  to  be  proud  of  the  record  of  the  Church.  When  you  stop  to 
think  about  it,  you  must  conclude  that  this  Church  has  been  right 
throughout  its  whole  history  upon  all  of  the.  important  moral  ques- 
tions that  have  affected  our  welfare.  In  the  nature  of  things  there  is 
not  within  the  United  States  a  people  more  patriotic  than  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  know  of  no  other  sect  that  assumes  the  position  that  the 
constitution  of  the  United  States  was  written  as  it  were  hv  the  very 
finger  of  God.  Surely  that  belief  is  an  inspiration  to  the  highest  pat- 
riotism. You  remember  reading  in  the  history  of  the  Church  that  this 
people  were  accused  in  Missouri  of  being  opposed  to  slavery.  In  that 
slave-holding  state  such  an  attitude  became  one  of  the  reasons  of 
our  persecution  and  drivings.  You  remember  that  the  first  message 
that  flashed  across  the  completed  telegraph  line  from  here  to  the  At- 
lantic coast  was  a  message  of  congratulation  from  Brig-ham  Young  to 
Abraham  Lincoln,  that  the  Union  was  preserved  or  was  in  the  wav  of 
preservation. 

President  Grant  spoke  this  morning  of  the  attitude  of  the  Nwaio 
Indians  toward  the  "Mormons."  They  had  confidence  in  the  "Mor- 
mon" people  because  the  "Mormon"  people  never  had  abused  their 


ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG. 


149 


confidence.  Books  have  been  written,  one  book  that  I  remember  in 
particular,  called  A  Century  of  Dishonor,  an  indictment  covering 
hundreds  of  pages  against  the  American  people  for  treatment  of  the 
American  Indians.  But  no  indictment  has  ever  been  framed,  or  could 
be  formulated  against  the  "Mormon"  people  for  their  attitude  or  treat- 
ment of  the  aborigines  of  this  continent.  We  have  always  treated 
them  fairly  and  squarely,  as  of  course  th'ey  should  have  been  treated. 

We  have  stpod  square  upon  women's  suffrage.  We  were  among 
the  very  first — the  second  as  I  now  recall  it — of  the  states  to  give  what 
should  have  been  given  years  before,  the  right  of  equal  suffrage  to 
the  women,  now  recognized  not  only  in  this  country  but  throughout 
the  world  as  a  long  delayed  measure  of  justice. 

We  have  stood  fairly  and  squarely  upon  the  prohibition  question 
throughout  the  Church. 

We  occupy  an  enviable  position  so  far  as  the  great  subject  of 
education  is  concerned.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  afraid  -of  edu- 
cation; they  do  not  fear  that  by  the  education  of  their  children,  at 
least  by  true  education,  they  are  going  to  educate  them  out  of  "Mor- 
monism."  The  Church  has  always  stood,  from  the  days  of  Kirtland 
to  the  present  time,  for  universities,  for  colleges,  for  development, 
for  a  high  state  oL education;  and  our  record,  I  say,  in  that  respect  is 
a  very  enviable  one. 

We  stand  in  what  I  think  is  a  very  commendable  attitude  with 
reference  to  labor,  to  laboring  men,  to  what  might  be  called  the  meek 
and  the  humble  and  the  poor  of  the  world.  This  Church  has  never 
been,  and  is  not,  any  respecter  of  persons.  Our  congregations  are 
made  up  in  this  city  and  everywhere  of  not  merely  those  who  are  ,rich 
in  the  good's  of  this  world,  but  those  who  are  in  moderate  circum- 
stances and  those  who  are  poor,  all  worshiping  God  at  the  same  shrine 
— a  brotherhood  of  men  and  women  worshiping  under  the  auspices  of 
a  Church  that  welcomes' all  men  and  treats  all  equally  and  fairly. 
The  Church  has  not  only  a  splendid  record  in  that  regard,  but  we  have 
done  much,  very  much,  indeed,  to  help,  to  assist  the  poor  and  those 
who  are  not  as  fortunate  as  some  of  their  brethren  and  sisters.  And 
we  look  forward — and  it  is  written  down  in  our  books  here — to  the 
time  when  there  shall  be  community  of  interest  among  all  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Church. 

Indeed  there  are  no  more  advanced  conceptions  of  social  justice 
anywhere  extant  in  the  world.  And  so  I  say  and'  repeat  that  we  have 
reason  to  be  proud  of  the  record  of  the  Church  to  which  we  belong. 

And  now,  if  I  may  be  pardoned  for  saying  something  upon  a  sub- 
ject which  has  received  a  great  deal  of  attention  at  this  conference, 
I  think  we  may  congratulate  ourselves  (and  I  speak  with  due  defer- 
ence for  the  opinions  of  others),  that  we  stand  true;  if  I  understand 
the  sentiments  of  the  brethren  who  preside  over  this  Church  and  of 
the  whole  people  of  the  Church,  we  stand  true  upon  that  great  moral 
question  designated  as  the  League  of  Nations.  Possibly  enough  has 
been  said  upon  that  subject.   I  have  thought,  however,  that  perhaps  by 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


reason  of  the  peculiar  experiences  that  have  been  mine  during  the  last 
two  or  three  years,  it  might  not  be  held  to  be  improper  for  me  to  add 
a  little  to  what  has  been  said  upon  that  subject.  I  desire  first  to  say 
that  nothing  within  recent  years  has  astonished  me  quite  so  much  as 
that  opinions  on  this  subject  have  been  divided  along  lines  of  political 
cleavage.  What  is  there  in  the  controversy  respecting  the  league  of 
nations  that  calls  for  political  division?  It  is  beyond  my  comprehen- 
sion. Down  through  the  decades  of  our  history  the  Democratic  party 
has  stood  for  a  strict  construction  of  the  constitution ;  it  has  stood,  gen- 
erally speaking,  for  states  rights;  and,  in  a  way,  for  a  large  measure 
of  free  trade.  While  on  the  other  hand  the  Republican  party  has  stood 
for  writing  the  word  "Nation"  as  it  is  sometimes  expressed  with  a  big 
N.  It  has  stood  for  broad'  construction  of  the  constitution  and  the  pro- 
tection of  American  industries.  These  have  been  the  lines  of  demarka- 
tion  between  the  parties.  But  what  is  there  in  this  league  of  nations  that 
appeals  to  the  historical  differences  that  have  separated  these  two 
great  parties  ?   Nothing,  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  discover. 

My  justification  for  speaking  a  few  words  upon  this  subject  this 
afternoon  comes  not  only  from  the  fact  that  it  is  the  the  key  note  of 
this  conference,  I  may  say,  sounded  by  those  who  are  my  superiors  in 
ecclesiastical  authority,  but  from  the  fact  also  that  my  own  concep- 
tions and  attitude  in  respect  of  that  subject  were  taken  long  before  I 
dreamed  that  this  would  or  could  be  a  matter  of  political  controversy 
between  the  great  parties.  Now  we  find  ourselves  confronted  with 
the  fact  that  in  the  United  States  Senate  there  are  a  few  Democrats 
who  are  against  the  league,  while  the  great  bulk  of  them  are  for  it-  On 
the  other  hand,  there  are  a  few  Republican  Senators  who  stand  for 
the  league,  with  the  great  bulk  of  them  against.  I  must  confess  that 
this  condition  leads  me  to  the  conclusion,  which  seems  to  me  to  be 
inevitable,  that  so  far  as  the  senate  of  the  United  States  is  concerned, 
the  question  in  some  way  has  become  political,  which  it  should  not 
be,  and  which  it  is  not  in  very  truth  and  reason.  I  think  we  ought  to 
approach  our  conclusions  on  this  subject  free  from  political  affilia- 
tions, free  from  any  political  prejudices. 

It  seems  to  me,  as  was  stated  this  morning  in  the  Tabernacle, 
that  it  would  be  a  matter  of  chagrin  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  stand 
opposed  to  that  which,  as  I  conceive  it,  will  bring  about  or  contri- 
bute very  largely  to  the  bringing  about  of  a  reign  of  peace  on  the 
earth.  We  are  the  followers  of  him  whose  mission  was  announced  as 
Peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to  men.   That  is  the  spirit  of  Christian- 

I  take  it  that  there  can  be  no  question  of  the  rejection  of  the 
treaty  of  peace  of  which  the  proposed  constitution  of  the  League  of 
Nations  forms  a  part.  That  certainly  is  not  going  to  be  done.  The 
senate  of  the 'United  States  will  not  reject  this  peace  pact  outright. 
The  consequences  of  such  action  are  terrible  to  contemplate.  Think 
what  has  been  provided,  within  this  treaty  of  peace.  Think  of  the 
nations  that  have  been  erected  along  racial  lines.    Think  of  the  right 


i 


ELDER  RICHARD  W.  YOUNG. 


151 


that  has  been  extended  to  the  nations  of  the  world  to  determine, 
themselves,  their  own  forms  of  government.  There  is  Poland,  what 
would  become  of  Poland  if  this  treaty  were  not  approved?  There  is 
Jugo-Slavia — what  would  become  of  the  Jugo-Slavs?  What  would 
become  of  Palestine,  and  what  would  become  of  the  Armenians  ? 
What  would  become  of  Alsace-Lorraine,  and  what  of  that  part  of 
Denmark  which  Germany  stole  some  forty  or  fifty  years  ago? 

If  this  peace  pact  is  not  approved,  then  it  must  go  back  to  Ger- 
'  many.  Can  it  be  believed  that  Germany  will  approve  now  what  she 
felt  constrained  to  approve  at  the  end  of  the  war?  Germany  would 
demand  more  than  she  demanded  at  the  first.  The  world  will  surely 
be  in  an  indescribable  condition  of  disorder.  The  German  people  and 
some  who  sympathize  with  them  believe  that  the  terms  of  peace  were 
unduly  harsh  and  hard.  I  do  not  believe  it,  and  you  do  not  believe  it. 
Germany  has  not  property  enough,  has  not  resources  enough,  nor  the 
possibility  of  earning  money  enough,  to  compensate,  nor  indeed  is 
there  any  possibility  after  suffering  enough  in  any  respect,  to  equal  the 
wrongs  that  she  has  done  in  this  great  war.  The  terms  that  have  been 
imposed  upon  her  as  a  matter  of  fact  are  the  very  minimum  of  what 
could  in  justice  have  been  imposed  upon  her.  But  if  this  thing  is  not 
to  be  approved,  what  will  become  of  a  world  which  has  been  framed 
anew  under  the  American  idea  of  the  right  of  people  to  determine  their 
own  form  of  government?  It  is  inconceivable  that  the  treaty  of  peace 
should  be  rejected.  Will  it  be  amended  so  that  it  will  have  to  go 
back  for  reconsideration?  To  amend  it  would  bring  about  the  same 
result  as  to  reject  it — the  document  would  have  to  be  considered 
again — and  can  there  be  any  doubt  as  to  what  would  be  the  result  of 
that  ?  I  can  not  believe  that  the  Senate  of  the  United  States  will  make 
a  single  amendment.  I  certainly  believe  that  the  Senate  of  the  United 
States  should  not  approve  an  amendment  to  the  treaty.  Will  they 
make  any  interpretations  or  reservations  equivalent  to  an  amendment? 
If  they  do,  then  the  treaty  must  go  back  to  the  Peace  Congress  for 
reconsideration,  for  of  course  such  interpretation,  or  reservation  will 
have  the  effect  o'f  amendment  and  to  that  extent  therefore  will  be  ,a 
rejection  of  the  treaty.  It  seems  clear  and  incontestable  that  the 
great  bulk  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  demand  that  the  treaty 
shall  be  approved  in  the  form  and  substance  in  which  it  is  written, 
rather  than  to  undo  that  which  has  been  done  and  revert  to  the  sorry 
conditions  that  existed  before  that  treaty  was  made. 

What  were  those  conditions?  Why,  there  was  no  authority  to 
curb  the  ambitions  of  any  nation  that  had  the  desire  to  build  up  a 
great  army,  and  construct  great  plants  wherein  guns  and  armor  be 
made,  nor  to  prevent  a  robber  nation,  when  the  time  came,  when  the 
hour  struck,  attacking  a  weak  neighbor,  and  stealing  by  main  force 
a  portion  of  its  territory,  as  has  been  done  many  a  time  and  oft 
by  the  great  nation  whose  ambitions  we  have  been  fighting.  Do  we 
want  that  done?  Do  we  not  rather  want  a  restraint  placed  upon  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth?   Look  what  is  now  happening.   We  are  told 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  the  press  dispatches  this  morning  that  war  between  Italy  and  the 
Jugo-Slavic  nation  is  probable.  That  would  not  be  possible,  nor  prob- 
able, if  this  league  of  peace  were  now  in  force — there  would  be  the 
combined  influence  of  the  world  to  prevent  that  sort  of  thing.  It  is 
said  that  there  are  some  15  or  20  other  wars  now  waging,  waging  be- 
cause the  league  is  not  in  force. 

Gentlemen  talk  about  our  yielding  up  some  of  the  sovereignty  of 
the  United  States.  I  do  not  think  that  the  objection  is  sound  or  well 
taken.  But  if  so,  then  let  us  yield  up  so  much  of  our  sovereignty  as 
may  be  necessary  to  the  realization  of  a  world  peace.  I  yield  up 
some  of  my  sovereignity  to  the  city  government,  to  the  police,  under 
ordinances  and  laws  that  prevent  me  from  treading  on  the  toes  of  my 
neighbor,  from  taking  his  property,  or  intruding  in  his  home.  To  that 
extent  I  yield  up  my  sovereignty.  The  law  says  that  I  may  not  infringe 
upon  the  rights  of  my  neighbor.  There  is  a  league,  there  is  a  treaty 
between  you  arid  me,  and  between  all  the  citizens  of  every  law  abiding 
country,  under  which  each  of  us  gives  up  some  of  his  God-given  sov- 
ereignty in  order  to  preserve  the  weak  from  being  overpowered  by  the 
strong.  It  is  so  in  the  government  of  the  United  States — the  states 
are  protected  against  foreign  invasions.  Nobody  can  violate  the  sov- 
erignty  of  this  state  or  any  state  in  the  union  but  what  the  United 
States  will  come  to  its  aid,  so,  in  our  municipal  and  state  relations  we 
are  shielded  by  a  sort  of  Article  ten  from  outside  interference.  Why 
should  not  that  principle  be  extended  to  the  nations,  so  that  when 
some  big  nation  sees  fit  to  rob  one  of  the  little  nations  of  its  territory 
of  its  liberties,  there  should  be  a  world  policeman  who  shall  say,  Thus 
far  shalt  thou  go  and  no  further?  Shall  we  return  to  that  unhappy, 
irrational,  and  unChristian  condition  where  there  was  no  restraint  upon 
any  nation,  where  force  prevailed  and  might  made  right? 

Gentlemen  say  that  the  Shantung  business  is  wrong.  Suppose  it 
is.  Germany  created  it,  France  and  England  found  it  necessary  to 
recognize  it,  and  we  and  the  world  have  inherited  it.  I  believe  the 
wrong  has  been  largely  righted,  because  the  subject  has  been  brought 
within  the  consideration  and  determination  of  the'  Council  of  the 
League  of  Nations. 

Did  you  ever  stop  to  think  what  was  done  when  the  constitution 
of  the  United  States  was  formed?  Why,  slavery,  which  was  bitterly 
opposed  by  the  people  of  the  Northern  states  when  the  constitution  was 
formed,  was  perpetuated  in  the  government  of  the  United  States,  and 
for  20  years  the  people  were  peamitted  to  bring  slaves  from  Africa  into 
this  country.  It  was  a  compromise,  it  was  a  moral  compromise.  The 
North  gave  up  what  they  believed  to  be  a  very  great  moral  principle 
in  order  to  secure  the  constitution  of  the  United  States  and  its  bless- 
ings. The  Constitution  was  a  league  of  free  and  independent  col- 
onies and  is  filled  with  compromise  from  one  end  to  another,  including 
the  right  for  the  smallest  of  states  to  have  an  equal  vote  with  the 
largest  in  the  United  States  Senate. 

People  say  that  we  ought  to  be  true  to  Washington  in  his  declara- 


ELDER  RICHARD  IV.  YOUNG. 


153 


tion  that  we  should  not  make  any  entangling  alliances.  There  are  a 
great  many  things  that  Washington  and  the  patriot  forefath- 
ers did  not  foresee,  or  provide  against,  wise  as  they  un- 
doubtedly were.  There  have  been  eighteen  amendments  to 
the  constitution  of  the  United  States  since  it  was  first  adopted.  These 
provide  for  religious  freedom,  trial  by  jury,  etc.,  etc.,  and  now  pro- 
viding for  women's  suffrage.  Somebody  stated  humorously  in  the 
state  senate  the  other  day  that  it  was  Washington's  idea  and  the  idea 
of  the  fathers  that  only  men  should  vote,  and  asked,  why  then  extend 
the  vote  to  women,  or  why  extend  it  to  negroes  ?  Washington's  idea 
was  that  senators  should  be  elected  by  the  legislatures,  then  why  now 
permit  the  people  to  elect  senators  by  direct  vote?  There  was  no 
thought  of  prohibition  in  Washington's  day,  yet  it  is  now  written  down 
in  the  constitution  of  the  United  States.  The  fact  is  that  as  time  goes 
on  new  necessities  arise,  which  should  and  must  be  met  by  the  law  and 
by  the  constitution. 

I  believe  there  are  a  good  many  men  who  think  that  we  would  be 
giving  up  something  of  our  Americanism  if  we  approved  of  this  league, 
who  are  perfectly  honest  and  sincere  in  their  opposition.  But  at  the 
same  time  I  must  confess  that  I  believe  that  the  great  bulk  of  those  who 
oppose  it  are  doing  so  for  political  reasons  and  considerations- 

1  am  not  authorized  to  speak  on  the  subject  for  the  men  who  served 
in  the  United  States  army:  I  do  not  know  what  their  sentiments  may 
be,  on  the  whole.  I  know  only  'this  that  so  far  as  I  have  talked  with 
men  who  wore  the  uniform  in  the  late  great  war,  they  stand  solidly 
for  the  league  of  nations.  I  do  not  of  course  pretend  to  have  talked 
with  all  or  very  many  of  them.  I  made  a  little  speech  of  welcome  to 
the  returning  soldiers  down  here  in  one  of  the  southern  towns  a  few 
weeks  ago,  and  when  I  got  through  a  returned  soldier  got  up  to  re- 
spond'. I  did  not  know  what  he  was  going  to  say,  'but  he  made  a  very 
impassioned  appeal  for  the  League,  and  considerably  amused  the  audi- 
ence by  stating:  "If  you  people  do  not  approve  this  League,  and  we 
have  another  big  war,  why  you  fellows  be  consistent  and  go  to  the 
war  and  let  us  stay  at  home." 

These  are,  very  hurriedly  and  incompletely,  some  of  my  sentiments, 
and  I  give  them  to  you  for  what  they  are  worth.  It  seems  to  me  that 
this  is  the  greatest  crisis  of  decades.  It  seems  to  me  that  here  is  the 
opportunity,  the  first  great  chance,  for  the  Christian  people  of  the 
world  to  write  Christianity  into  the  Slipreme  government  of  all  the 
nations,  and  that  to  reject  this  opportunity  and  go  back  to  the  old 
order  of  things,  where  lawless  force  and  unrestrained  aggression  held 
swav,  to  sro  back  to  that  condition  of  things,  would  be  a  crime.  May 
the  Lord  have  mercy  on  the  souls  of  those  who  oppose  it,  not  honestly 
but  through  political  considerations. 

I  cannot  see  why  we  should  not  try  this  thing  out-  If  the  event 
should  demonstrate  that  the  league  needs  amendment,  like  the  con- 
stitution of  the  United  States,  let  us  amend  it.  If  it  needs  amendment 
twice,  let  us  twice  amend  it.    If  it  needs  amendment  eighteen  times, 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  did  the  constitution  of  the  United  States  in  order  to  make  a  more 
perfect  and  desirable  government,  let  us  amend  it  eighteen  times,  but 
don't  reject  it  now.  In  conclusion,  if  you  will  permit  something  which 
sounds  like  profanity,  but  which  is  uttered  reverently  and  with  a  pro- 
found sense  of  what  I  conceive  to  be  our  duty,  for  God's  sake  let  us 
stand  behind  this  league  of  nations.  Amen. 


ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Granite  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
direct  my  remarks  to  you  this  afternoon.  I  am  in  hearty  accord  with 
what  has  been  presented  to  us  in  our  conference,  during  the  last  three 
days.  My  heart  has  been  filled  with  gratitude  in  witnessing  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  that  accompanied  the  speakers,  and  to  feel  the  good  spirit 
abiding  in  the  congregations  of  the  people. 

When  Brother  Young  spoke  this  afternoon  of  what  wonderful 
accomplishments  had  been  made  by  us  as  a  people,  how  we  had  been' 
in  the  fore-front  in  establishing  the  affirmative  organizations  before 
us  in  the  past  years,  and  of  the  wonderful  opportunities  that  are  before 
us  as  a  people,  I  could  not  help  but  wonder  if  in  the  future  we  are  going 
to  be  equal  to  every  occasion  that  shall  present  itself  to  us ;  and  if  we 
are  really  prepared  to  assume  the  responsibility  that  is  upon  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  see  to  it  that  the  message  of 
Christ,  the  peace  of  salvation,  shall  be  carried  to  the  children  of  the 
earth ;  and  whether  we  are  prepared  to  stand  as  an  ensign  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  the  peoples  thereof,  and  show,  by  the  fruits  of 
our  labors  and  the  truth  that  is  in  us,  that  we  ane  indeed  the  children  of 
the  Lord  our  God,  worthy  of  being  his  servants  in  proclaiming  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  the  children  of  men,  and  offering  unto  mankind 
that  peace  which  comes  from  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and  which  means 
exaltation  to  his  children  in  the  earth !  Thinking  of  this  in  my  own 
personal  life,  I  wonder  if  I  have  measured  up  to  the  standard  our 
heavenly  Father  expects  of  me,  considering  the  opportunities  that  the 
gospel  of  Christ  has  presented  to  me !  I  am  concerned  when  I  speak 
about  it,  wondering  if  I  have  lived  the  proper  kind  of  a  life.  If  I 
were  to  go  out  into  the  world  to  proclaim  this  work  of  God,  and  show 
before  the  children  of  men  that  I  am  a  fruit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  wonder  whether  they  could  see  in  me  a  light  and  an  ensign ; 
and  that  I  could  say,  I  have  the  truth,  follow  me.  I  hesitate,  and  I  am 
in  doubt  concerning  my  own  personal  life,  that  I  would  be  equal  and 
measure  up  to  that  occasion.  And  yet,  as  a  people  we  have  accepted 
this  mission  and  this  calling  in  the  earth,  to  see  that  the  people  of  the 
earth  are  evangelized  and  warned  to  accept  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

What  are  we  doing  to  bring  about  that  splendid  result  ?   We  have 


ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 


155 


been  praying  and  looking  forward  for  years  and  years,  to  the  time 
when  the  doors  of  the  world  should  be  opened  to  our  missionaries.  We 
have  only  had  a  scant  opportunity  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  They  would  not  receive  our  elders,  in 
many  parts  of  the  earth.  They  have  shut  their1  doors  against  us.  But 
now,  it  appears,  with  the  freedom  that  is  being  extended  to  the  people, 
brought  about  by  this  terrible  war,  an  opportunity  is  being  presented 
to  us  to  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  believe  our 
boys  and  girls  will  be  called  out  by  the  thousands  in  the  near  future, 
to  stand  before  the  world  as  an  ensign  to  its  peoples.  Now,  the  thought 
that  stirs  me  is,  am  I  ready  for  that  mission?  Are  we  ready  for  that 
call?  Are  you  prepared?  Are  you  in  a  condition  to  go  out  before  the 
children  of  men,  and  hold  up  your  head  and  hands  unafraid,  un- 
ashamed, to  declare :  "I  belong  to  the  body  of  people  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  I  have  kept  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  my  God,  and  I  am  here  to  aid  in  bringing 
about  the  gospel  mission  of  peace !"  Are  you  prepared  in  your  own 
life?  Are  you  preparing  your  boys  and  your  girls  honestly  to  pro- 
claim that  indeed  we  are  an  ensign  before  all  the  children  of  men, 
and  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  our  God?  It  seems 
to  me  that  some  of  us  are  more  anxious  about  the  loaves  and  fishes — 
to  get  rich.  We  are  more  anxious  to  be  seen  of  men  in  high  places, 
rather  than  using  our  ability  and  strength  and  power  to  further  the 
work  of  the  Lord  that  it  may  spread  in  the  nations  of  the  earth,  that 
other  peoples  in  the  world  may  have  the  chance  to  breathe  this  free- 
dom, to  see  this  light,  to  comprehend  this  understanding,  which  we 
enjoy  through  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

When  I  think  of  these  things,  I  feel  in  my  own  soul  that  I  am 
going  to  try  to  do  better,  to  repent  of  the  wrong  I  have  done,  so  order 
my  life  that  I  shall  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  my  God,  so 
that  whenever,  or  wherever  I  go  the  peoples  of  the  world  may 
see  in  me  some  good,  and  behold,  in  the  great  message  which  I  pro- 
claim, the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  bears  good  fruit. 

We  owe  much,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  mission  we  have 
espoused.  It  behooves  us  to  do  right,  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  to  do  these  things  of  which  I  have  spoken.  We  should 
set  our  houses  in  order,  put  our  affairs  in  shape  so  that  at  home,  or 
wherever  the  Lord  shall  see  fit  to  call  us  to  go,  we  may  be  ready  and 
able  to  proclaim  in  doctrine,  precept  and  example  this  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  believe  our  boys  and  girls  are  going  to  have  a  wonderful  oppor- 
tunity in  the  world.  A  great  responsibility  is  going  to  devolve  upon 
them,  such  as  has  never  devolved  upon  any  of  us  before;  hence,  all 
of  us  ought  to  set  our  lives  in  order,  and  see  to  it  that  we  ourselves  are 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God ;  that  we  are  clean  and  sweet  and 
pure ;  that  we  are  living  such  lives  that  our  boys  may  see  within  us  the 
principles  of  rihteousness  and  truth,  and  that  they  may  have  an  example 
to  follow  that  shall  be  worthy,  if  they  follow  in  our  footsteps. 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


You  will  pardon  my  being  personal ;  but  when  I  look  back  on  my 
father's  life,  in  relation  to  these  matters,  it  is  a  wonderful  inspiration  to 
me,  as  the  lives  of  your  fathers^  and  mothers  undoubtedly  have  been  to 
you.  But  when  I  think  of  the  careful  training  that  I  had,  of  the  won- 
derful example  that  was  set  before  me,  in  my  youth,  I  feel  that  it  would 
be  inexcusable  fof  me  to  do  that  which  was  not  right  in  my  life,  be- 
cause I  feel  that  I  had  a  perfect  example  to  follow.  As  a  boy,  how- 
ever, I  have  been  tempted  like  other  boys ;  but  my  father's  life  was  so 
free  and  pure  and  clean  that  whenever  temptation  was  presented  to  me, 
it  seemed  like  my  father  rose  up  before  me  in  majesty,  like  a  monument, 
and  I  could  not  do  the  wrong  which  I  was  tempted  to  do.  I  felt  that  I 
would  bring  displeasure  upon  him,  and  I  know  there  was  nothing  in 
his  life  that  would  warrant  me  in  taking  a  course  that  would  not  be 
acceptable  before  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  felt,  as  I  thought  of  his  life, 
O,  I  would  like  to  live  that  kind  of  a  life  myself,  so  that  I  would  be  a 
light  in  the  darkness  to  my  boys  and  girls ;  that  I  might  take  a'  course 
that  my  boys  might  have  a  straight  and 'perfect  path  to  follow,  and 
never  go  in  devious  and  crooked  ways,  and  so  grow  up  as  clean, 
sweet  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  tell  you  it  is  a  noble  calling  to  be  known  as  a  true,  clean,  sweet 
Latter-day  Saint.  It  will  mean  salvation  and  exaltation  to  any  soul  who 
will  live  that  kind  of  a  life,  and  endure.  As  a  father  I  feel,  and  you 
as  fathers  feel,  how  important  it  is  that  we  set  before  our  boys  and 
girls  a  perfect  example,  that  they  may  lead  such  lives  as  will  guide 
them  to  life  and  salvation,  and  never  be  ashamed,  at  any  time,  of  what 
they  are  doing.  Every  father  owes  it  to  the  manhood  within  his  boy, 
that  he  shall  so  live  that  when  that  boy  sees  his  example,  and  walks  in 
his  footsteps,  the  boy  can  hold  up  his  head  and  hands  and  say,  Thank 
God,  that  is  my  father !  •  Any  man  who  lives  short  of  that  is  not  living 
up  to  the  expectancy  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to 
the  furtherance  of  the  strength  and  manhood  of  the  boys  and  girls  we 
are  rearing. 

I  think,  too,  that  as  a  priesthood,  and  as  men,  we  owe  more  of  our 
spirit  and  strength  and  ability  and  power  to  our  boys  and  girls  than 
we  are  giving  to  them.  It  does  not  make  much  difference  to  you  and  to 
me  whether  we  have  much  in  our  barns,  or  have  flocks,  or  herds,  or 
of  the  world's  material  things  around  us,  or  what  the  honors  of  the 
world  may  be  to  us,  whether  we  live  in  a  big  house  or  a  little  one.  It 
does  not  mean  much  to  us ;  but  it  does  matter  much  what  our  boys  and 
girls  are  doing,  and  whether  they  are  taking  the  course  that  will  bring 
joy  and  happiness  to  us  all  the  days  of  our  lives. 

What  a  wonderful  happiness  comes  to  a  father  who  sees  his  boy 
grow  up  from  infancy  to  manhood,  clean  and  sweet  and  pure,  with 
virtue  written  upon  his  forehead,  and  manly  acts  engraved  upon  every- 
thing that  he  does  upon  the  earth.  Isn't  that  worth  the  best  efforts 
we  can  put  forth  in  this  world? 

The  Lord  expects  that  we  shall  bring  our  boys  up  in  the  fear, 
the  favor,  and  the  faith  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 


ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 


157 


sometimes  think  that  we  are  more  concerned  about  our  flocks  and  our 
herds  and  our  riches,  and  to  be  seen  and  honored  of  men,  than  we  are 
of  the  welfare  of  our  children,  and  that  we  may  have  around  us  boys 
and  girls  who  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  our  God. 

Sitting  in  a  business  house  one  day,  a  man  passed  the  store.  I  was 
talking  with  the  proprietor  of  the  business,  and  the  man  passed  the 
window ;  and  this  passing  man  was  rather  "down  at  the  heel,"  as  we 
say.  His  trousers  were  frayed,  his  hat  was  a  little  torn,  and  his  head 
was  bowed  down.  He  looked  rather  discouraged.  As  he  passed,  th« 
business  man  pointed  to  him  and  said,  "Brother  Taylor,  there  goes  a 
failure  in  life." 

The  remark  hurt  me  a  little,  and  I  said,  "I  don't  know ;  it  depends 
upon  what  you  call  a  failure.  I  think  I  know  the  man,  perhaps,  better 
than  you  do.  It  is  true  he  has  not  worldly  goods  about  him,  and  he  has, 
perhaps,  lost  about  all  he  had  of  earthly  things,  as  far  as  wealth  goes ; 
but  he  has  done  a  wonderful  thing  in  our  community.'  I  know  him 
well.  He  has  been  out  in  the  waste  places,  and  subdued  them,  made 
them  blossom  as  the  rose.  He  has  become  a  pioneer  in  this  way,  and 
has  done  all  this  where  he  has  gone.  As  soon  as  a  place  became  so  that 
the  people  could  prosper  there,  he  moved  on  and  tried  again ;  until  he 
has  made  many  places  blossom  as  the  rose.  In  this  community,  too,  I 
know  he  has  been  a  thinker,  he  has  been  a  reader,  he  has  been  a  progres- 
sive fellow ;  and  wherever  he  has  lived  he  has  encouraged  boys  and  girls 
to  go  to  schools  and  to  universities.  He  has  awakened  ambition  within 
the  hearts  of  boys  and  girls.  He  is  a  goad  Latter-day  Saint,  too,  arid 
he  has  taught  men  the  word  of  the  Lord  our  God.  Not  only  that,  but 
better  than  all  that,  he  has  gathered  around  him  his  boys  and  girls ;  he 
knows  the  heart  of  every  one  of  them,  and'  they  know  him.  They  are 
companions  to  him,  and  he  is  a  companion  to  them.  They  love  him, 
they  honor  him,  respect  him,  and  he  has  a  splendid,  large  family.  It 
is  true  he  has  not  given  them  much  wealth,  but  every  boy  and  girl  that 
he  has  is  a  Latter-day  Saint, — a  credit  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  are  clean  and  sweet  boys  and  girls !  He 
loves  his  fellow  men;  and,  you  will  pardon  me,  I  know  you  are  my 
friend,  but  if  I  were,  'right  up  against  it,'  as  we  say,  not  knowing 
where  to  go  for  something  to  eat,  and  needed  a  little  help,  and  I  just 
had  two  friends  to  go  to,  that  man  that  you  call  a  failure  in  life,  as  be- 
tween you  and  him,  I  would  go  to  that  man !" 

Said  he,  "Why,  he  couldn't  help  you ;  he  has  nothing  to  help  you 
with." 

"But,"  said  I,  "he  would  divide  with  me  that  which  he  had.  I  feel 
that  he  has  been  a  success  and  not  a  failure,  he  has  gained  eternal 
riches,  he  has  stored  where  moth  and  rust  do  not  corrupt,  nor  thieves 
break  through  and  steal." 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  owe  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  do  the  right,  that  we  live  lives  that 
will  reflect  credit  upon  it,  and  that  we  teach  our  boys  and  girls  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  arid  that  we  teach  them  to  be  clean  and 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sweet  and  pure,  in  the  sight  of  all  men,  because  unless  they  are  clean, 
all  these  other  things  will  not  amount  to  much  in  their  lives. 

I  love  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  love  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  love  our  boys  and  our  girls ;  and  O,  how  I  would  like  to  see 
them  measure  up  in  purity,  faith,  and  righteousness,  and  I  am  sure  they 
will,  because  the  Lord  will  so  order  it  that  they  will  meet  any  require- 
ment, and  as  they  grow  older  and  bigger  and  stronger  they  will  stand 
up  just  like  our  leaders  have  done,  and  become  an  ensign  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  children  of  men, — which  I  pray  may  be  their  lot,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:  "Tell  Ye  the  Daughters  of  Zion,"  William  R. 
Worley,  soloist. 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

(President  of  the  Deseret  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  will  calm 
my  spirit,  and  give  me  his  Holy  Spirit,  so  that  I  shall  not  say  anything 
that  will  detract  in  any  way  from  the  splendid  influence  and'  spirit  of 
this  conference  gathering.  I  am  able  to  say  that  I  am  in  perfect  ac- 
cord with  the  spirit  and  teachings  of  this  conference.  I  am  very  grate- 
ful to  the  Lord  that  I  have  been  permitted  to  meet  with  you  and 
have  again  a  birth  of  the  spirit,  and  be  renewed  in  my  desires  and  deter- 
mination to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  enjoy 
his  blessings.  I  feel  full  of  thanksgiving  and  appreciation  unto  the 
Lord  upon  this  occasion. 

It  has  been  my  blessed  privilege  to  come  with  eight  members  of 
my  family  to  enjoy  this  splendid  occasion.  Four  years  ago,  this  Octo- 
ber, the  mother  and  father  and  the  children  that  are  here  upon  this  oc- 
casion were  here  to  bid  farewell  to  the  oldest  son  of  the  family  and 
wish  him  God  speed  upon  his  journey  to  New  Zealand.  We  are  here 
today  to  bid  him  welcome  home  from  that  field  of  labor.  I  hope  you 
will  pardon  me  for  indulging  in  this  kind  of  personal  or  family  talk,  but 
I  stand  before  you  as  a  father  in  Israel,  one  whose  heart  is  full  of  thanks- 
giving, and  I  take  it  that  it  is  fitting  and  proper  that  I  should  offer 
thanksgiving,  even  at  this  time,  unto  the  Lord.  The  other  night  when 
that  missionary  boy  crawled  in  bed  with  his  father,  the  first  time  for 
four  years  and  more,  he  said : 

"Father,  it  has  been  a  long  time,  hasn't  it?" 

"Yes,"  said  I,  "It  has  been  a  long  time,  son ;  but,  oh,  how  rapidly 
that  time  has  gone  and  how  grateful  to  the  Lord,  I  have  been 
every  day,  that  he  has  permitted  you  to  be  out  in  his  service.  When  I 
awoke  in  the  morning  I  discovered  that  boy's  head  on  my  arm  while 
he  still  slept,  and  thought  if  he  could  but  know  what  a  warm  pulsation 
of  this  father's  heart  that  is  his,  and  how  I  lie  here  offering  thanks- 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY. 


159 


giving  unto  God  for  him,  0  how  anxious  he  would  be  that  he  should 
never  falter,  never  fall  back,  never  lose  that  spirit  and  that  sweetness 
which  characterize  him  now.  I  have  witnessed  the  return  of  our  young  ' 
men,  whom  we  followed  with  faith  and  prayer  to  the  field  of  battle,  or 
wherever  they  have  been  during  these  past  years  of  trouble  and  sorrow, 
war  and  bloodshed.  I  have  seen  some  of  them  return,  in  many  cases, 
thank  God',  pure  and  sweet  and  clean  as  they  were  when  they  left,  hav- 
ing been  so  protected  that  they  have  not  forgotten  the  teaching  of  the 
Church,  of  their  fathers  and  mothers,  and  the  influence  that  has  sus- 
tained them.  They  have  been  mindful  of  their  dependence  upon  the 
God  of  war  as  well  as  the  God  of  peace,  and  the  God  of  righteous- 
ness. When  I  have  seen  that  kind  of  men  come,  back,  and  I  have  met 
many  of  them,  O  how  my  heart  has  rejoiced! 

But  now,  permit  me  to  speak  for  a  moment  for  some  of  them 
who,  surrounded  with  temptations,  were  not  able  to  stand.  Perhaps,  • 
when  I  speak  of  the  conditions  that  obtain  in  the  Deseret  stake  of  Zion, 
it  will  be  somewhat  like  the  conditions  that  obtain  in  other  stakes  of 
Zion.  Some  of  these  boys  have  come  back  with  the  stain  of  tobacco 
upon  their  fingers.  Some  of  them  have  come  back  regretting  that 
they  are  not  just  as  clean  and  sweet  as  they  were  when  they  went  away. 
It  is  for  this  class  that  I  would  speak.  O,  what  a  lesson  the  Savior 
taught  when  he  told  us  of  the  ninety-nine  that  were  safely  gathered  and 
the  one  that  was  astray ;  how  he  would  go  out  and  hunt  for  him  who 
was  astray,  and  when  he  found  him,  what  rejoicing  there  would  be! 
I  plead  for  leniency  for  the  boy,  and  bespeak  for  him  the  kind  and 
tender  care  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  I  say  that  it  is  the  Lord 
that  reaches  out  for  men,  and  does  not  allow  them  to  go  back  discour- 
aged and  feel  that  all  is  lost.  I  feel  that  it  is  from  the  devil  when  any 
spirit  comes  to  a  boy  or  a  man,  a  girl  or  a  woman,  and  they  feel  that 
they  are  lost,  and  that  they  cannot  climb  back  into  full  recognition. 

How  my  heart  did  thrill  this  morning,  in  that  Mutual  Improvement 
meeting,  when  Brother  B.  F.  Grant  stated  that  he  was  the  son  of  a 
prophet,  a  man  who  stood  beside  Brigham  Young  as  a  counselor,  and 
his  mother  was  one  of  the  choice  souls  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church ; 
that  for  thirty-nine  years  of  his  life  he  got  off  wrong,  and  he  continued 
to  go  wrong,  believing  that  there  was  nothing  in  this  gospel  which  the 
Lord  God  has  restored  in  these  the  last  days,  until,  stricken  with  sor- 
row, he  looked  upon  the  lifeless  form  of  his  little  girl,  his  own  flesh 
and  blood,  and  then  he  said,  "O  God,  can  it  be  possible  that  this  is  the 
end,  and  that  I  shall  see  her  no  more?"  To  which  the  Spirit  made 
reply,  "It  cannot  be,  this  is  not  the  end !"  And  then  came  into  his  life 
the  day  of  repentance,  the  day  of  cleansing  himself,  purifying  himself, 
the  hours  and  the  days  of  prayer.  The  Lord  brought  him  back,  until 
he  stands  now  and  bears  a  testimony  of  the  Lord's  wonderful  goodness 
unto  him ! 

So  I  say,  I  plead  for  those  boys.  I  like  the  spirit  that  is  exempli- 
fied in  the  parable  of  the  prodigal  son.  I  think  when  I  read  that  para- 
ble sometimes  that  I  can  almost  see  and  feel  what  it  must  have  meant 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  that  father  to'  have  his  son  stand  up  before  him  and  say,  "O  father." 
Perhaps  he  did  not  like  everything  that  was  going  on  in  that  family. 
Perhaps  it  was  too  slow,  the  boy  thought,  for  him.  Perhaps  the  boy 
was  self-wise,  and  thought,  "If  you  will  but  let  me  go  and  cut  loose 
from  the  family,  I  would  soon  make  good.  If  you  will,  father,  divide 
unto  me  the  portion  that  belongeth  to  me."  I  imagine  that  I  can  feel 
it.  I  feel  that  if  such  a  circumstance  should  arise  in  my  own  family, 
I  can  imagine  what  sort  of  spirit  and  feelings  would  be  in  my  own 
heart,  when  I  would  look  upon  my  own  flesh  and  blood,  and  I  would 
be  forced  to  say,  "O  son,  after  we  have  given  all  that  we  had  unto  our 
family,  are  you  yet  dissatisfied?  Do  you  want  to  take  the  meagre  por- 
tion that  is  yours  and  leave  us  and  go  ?"  If  he  should  say,  "Yes,  give 
it  to  me,  father,  and  let  me  go."  How  would  I  feel  if  he  would  not  re- 
pent, and  he  should  go  ?  But  I  imagine  that  father  watching,  waiting, 
praying.  Doesn't  the  Savior  give  us  to  understand  in  that  parable  out- 
lining the  very  nature  of  things  as  they  exist?  Does  he  not  say  that 
the  father  saw  the  son  approaching  from  afar?  He  was  looking  for 
the  son  that  was  away.  He  could  not  rest  while  there  was  one  link 
of  that  family  chain  away.  So  he  saw  him  as  he  approached  from  the 
distance,  and  he  called  them  to  go  and  kill  the  fatted  calf,  and  he 
placed  a  mantle  upon  him,  and  a  ring  upon  his  finger,  and  he  rejoiced.  I 
think  I  can  imagine  in  this  world  of  selfishness,  perhaps  a  little,  what 
might  be  the  feelings  of  a  dutiful  son  who  had  witnessed  that  boy  go 
off,  who  had  witnessed  the  anguish  of  the  father  and  the  mother  and 
the  family.  Now  when  he  comes  back  that  dutiful  son  hears  the  sound 
of  rejoicing  in  the  home.  Calling  to  a  servant,  he  asks,  "What  is  this?" 
"O,  your  brother  has  returned,  and  your  father  and  all  are  happy,  and 
they  are  making  merry."  I  think  I  can  imagine  what  principle  dom- 
inated the  boy  when  he  ""should  say:  "Is  that  so?  And  here  I  have 
been  at  home  with  father  and  mother,  have  toiled  and  labored  this  long 
time,  and  they  have  not  so  much  as  killed  a  kid  for  me !  And  now  when 
he  comes  home,  after  having  wasted  his  money  and  all  that  he  had  in 
riotous  living,  here  they  are  feasting  with  him !" 

Oh,  but  that  father's  heart  burned,  a  true  father's  heart,  and,  he 
answered:  "Son,  thou  hast  been  with  me  always;  all  that  I  have  is 
thine;  but  this  boy  who  was  dead  to  us,  this  boy  who  was  lost,  he  is 
back  again."  That  is  the  spirit ;  that  is  the  lesson  that  I  think  we  should 
have  in  our  hearts  now.  Not  one  boy  should  be  lost!  I  cannot  con- 
ceive of  the  father  that  can  say,  he  is  gone !  I  don't  believe  that  such  a 
mother  exists-  who  feels  that  they  are  gone,  and  that  she  will  not  get 
them  back. 

The  other  day  in  your  city,  I  walked  up  to  an  old  man  whom  I  saw 
out  on  the  street^  and  I  tapped  him  on  the  back  and  said,  "Brother 
Crackles,  how  are  you  ?"  And  he  looked  up  and  said,  "Brother  Hinck- 
ley, would  you  come  out  here  in  the  street  and  speak  to  me?"  "Why 
not,  Brother  Crackles  ?  Don't  I  know  you  ?"  "Oh,  yes,  you  know  me, 
and  I  am  working  for  an  honest  living."  Then  he  said  to  me,  "I  have 
a  message  for  you :  Richard  has  come  back  to  the  Church,  clean,  pure, 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY.  161 


sweet  and  repentant."  Then  I  recalled  that  I  had  heard  him  stand  up 
in  fast  meeting,  in  his  home  ward,  and  bear  a  testimony  something  like 
this:  After  testifying  of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  unto  him  and  his 
family,  he  broke  down  and  said,  "But  one  is  gone,  but  he  will  come 
back !  Mother  and  I  never  retire  but  what  we  bend  the  knee,  and  ask 
the  Father  of  all  to  bring  Richard  back  to  us,  and  he  will  come  back !" 
I  tell  you  that  faith  did  not  go  unrewarded ;  Richard  has  come  back ! 

Let  us  take  it  to  heart,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  boy  that 
would  go  and  offer  his  life  for  you  and  for  me  and  for  the  cause  of 
liberty  and  right  will  not  be  lost,  if  you  and  I  do  our  full  part,  for 
the  Lord  will  reach  out  after  him,  and  he  will  bring  him  back. 

Let  us  stand  for  that  M.  I.  A.  slogan.  Let  the  fathers  and  the 
mothers  be  at  the  sacramental  table  of  the  Lord.  Let  them  renew  their 
covenants  before  the  Lord ;  and  let  us  remember,  every  one  of  us,  the 
lessons  of  this  conference  that  have  beeh  repeated  over  and  over,  that 
there  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  the  heavens,  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and  whenever  we 
receive  any  blessing  from  God  it  is  by  obedience  unto  the  law  upon 
which  that  blessing  is  predicated.  Let  us  then  so  live  that  if  we  want 
the  blessings  of  life,  health  and  strength,  as  Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman 
outlined  to  us  this  morning,  we  may  be  able  to  say  unto  the  Lord,  we 
have  obeyed  the  law  upon  which  this  blessing  is  predicated.  Let  us  upon 
the  sacred  Sabbath  day  be  able  to  say  to  the  Lord  when  we  think  of  the 
blessings  that  are  promised,  predicated  upon  proper  observance  of  the 
Sabbath  day,  and  say  it  in  humility,  we  have  obeyed  the  law  upon  which 
these  blessings  are  predicated.  When  we  know  what  we  get  from 
prayer,  let  us  be  able  to  say  unto  the  Lord,  we  have  obeyed  the  law  of 
prayer  upon  which  the  blessings  that  come  from  prayer  are  predicated. 

Do  not  count  any  boy  or  girl  lost.  They  are  not.  Brother  Tal- 
mage  stated  at  our  conference,  a  week  ago  today,  as  a  servant  of  the 
Lord,  and  I  wrote  it  down,  and  read  it  to  him  after  the  meeting  was 
over  and  he  said  I  had  it  recorded  correctly:  "I  promise  the  Saints  in 
the  Deseret  stake  of  Zion  that  if  their  lives  are  such  that  they  can  look 
their  sons  and  daughters  in  the  face,  arid  if  any  of  them  have  gone 
astray,  that  the  parents  are  able  to  say,  Tt  is  contrary  to  my  instruction 
and  my  life's  example ;  it  is  against  every  effort  of  love,  long  suffering, 
faith,  prayer  and  devotion  that  that  boy  or  that  girl  has  gone,' — I 
promise  you,  fathers  and  mothers,  that  not  one  of  them  shall  be  lost 
unless  they  have  sinned  away  the  power  to  repent."  I  don't  believe 
any  of  our  boys  are  in  that  lamentable  condition. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  as  one  having  a  knowl- 
edge, a  testimony,  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work  of  God.  I  stand 
before  you  like  Brother  Taylor,  offering  thanks  unto  God  for  the  sainted 
and  good  father  which  I  had,  and  mother  also.  I  trust  that  when  I 
have  finished  my  work  upon  the  earth  I  can  reach  out  and  grasp  the 
hand  of  my  father  and  can  say  unto  him  honestly:  "Father,  I  have 
walked  in  the  path  that  thou  didst  walk  in,  and  the  Lord  has  brought 
me  home  to  thee."    May  it  be  thus  with  us,  for  our  fathers  and  for 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ourselves  and  for  our  children  and  our  children's  children,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNE  Y. 

THE  MISTAKE  OF  SAYING  TOO  MUCH.  ■ 

When  General  Young  related  the  anecdote  of  the  sectarian  min- 
ister who  said,  "I  have  not  had  time  to  prepare  a  sermon,  and  shall 
therefore  have  to  depend  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,"  I  thought,  what 
a  oity  that  minister  did  not  know  where  to  stop.  Had  he  been  content 
with  saying,  "I  have  not  prepared  a  sermon,"  he  would  have  escaped 
the  ludicrous  situation  resulting  from  his  having  said  a  little  too  much. 
It  reminded  me  of  the  woman  who  composed  an  epitaph  for  her  dead 
husband.  First,  she  wrote :  "Rest  in  peace,"  and  then  added,  "until  we 
meet  again."  (Laughter.) 

.WHY  AMERICA  WAS  DISCOVERED  AND  THIS  NATION  FOUNDED. 

If  there  is  one  thing  I  am  proud  of,  it  is  that  I  am  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  or  one  who  professes  the  principles  of  a  Latter-day  Saint ;  and, 
next  to  that,  I  am  proud  of  being  an  American.  I  love  my  country,  I 
love  its  institutions,  and  desire  with  my  whole  heart  that  our  glorious 
nation  shall  go  on  to  the  fiulfilment  of  its  God-given  destiny. 

I  believe  God  inspired  Columbus  to  discover  this  land,  that  a  nation 
might  rise  and  flourish  here — a  nation  dedicated  to  freedom  and  equal 
rights,  including  the  right  to  worship  God  in  obedience  to  the  dictates  of 
conscience;  and  I  believe  that  this  nation  was  founded  that  the  great 
work  of  God  might  come  forth  and  not  be  crushed  out  by  the  tyranny 
of  men. 

I  believe,  also,  that  what  God  has  committed  to  us,  both  as  a 
Church  and  as  a  Nation,  we  owe  to  the  rest  of  mankind,  so  far  as  they 
can  be  induced  by  peaceful  persuasion  to  accept  our  principles.  This 
Church  has  a  mission  to  evangelize  the  world  with  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  "the  perfect  law  of  liberty ;"  and  I  have  always  dreamed 
that  our  Nation  has  a  mission  not  merely  to  receive  into  its  bosom  the 
outcast,  the  refugee,  the  oppressed  of  other  nations,  but  also  to  leaven 
with  American  principles  the  rest  of  the  world. 

"LIBERTY  ENLIGHTENING  THE  WORLD." 

At  the  mouth  of  New  York  harbor  there  stands  a  mammoth  statue 
— a  woman  holding  aloft  a  torch.  This  statue,  the  gift  of  the  French 
republic  to  the  American  republic,  is  entitled  "Liberty  Enlightening  the 
World."  I  regard  that  as  a  prophecy  of  the  mission  of  America;  and 
I  desire  that  the  prophecy  shall  be  fulfilled. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


163 


THE  UNITED  STATES  TYPICAL  OF  A  UNITED  WORLD. 

In  the  Constitutional  Convention,  when  the  fundamental  law  was 
framed  upon  which  the  State  of  Utah  now  stands,  I  stood  for  Woman 
Suffrage,  because  I  believe  it  to  be  a  principle  of  freedom  and  justice, 
and  I  there  voiced  the  conviction  that  the  union  of  these  states  was  a 
type  arid  a  foreshadowing  of  the  union  of  the  nations  of  the  world. 
Somehow  I  drank  in  this  idea  from  my  boyhood.  I  cannot  see  it  in  any 
other  light. 

LOWELL  ON  FREEDOM. 

I  am  heart  and  soul  in  sympathy  with  those  beautiful  lines  of 
Lowell's,  entitled  "Stanzas  on  Freedom,"  inspired  by  an  incident  that 
happened  during  the  Civil  War.  A  poor  negro  woman  had  escaped 
from  bondage,  and  had  made  her  way  into  the  State  of  Massachu- 
setts, "the  cradle  of  freedom-"  The  law  provided  for  the  return  of 
a  fugitive  slave,  and  she  was  pursued,  apprehended,  and  dragged 
back  into  slavery.  This  incident  so  fired  the  soul  of  James  Russell 
Lowell  that  he  poured  forth  this  indignant  and  eloquent  protest : 

Men!  whose  boast  it  is  that  ye 
Come  of  fathers  brave  and  free, 
If  there  breathe  on  earth  a  slave, 
Are  ye  truly  free  and  brave? 
If  ye  do  not  feel  the  chain, 
When  it  works  a  brother's  pain, 
Are  ye  not  base  slaves  indeed, 
Slaves  unworthy  to  be  freed? 

Women!  who  shall  one  day  bear 
Sons  to  breathe  New  England  air, 
If  ye  hear,  without  a  blush, 
Deeds  to  make  the  roused  blood  rush 
v  Like  red  lava  through  your  veins, 

For  your  sisters  now  in  chains, — 
Answer!  are  ye  fit  to  be 
Mothers  of  the  brave  and  free? 

Is  true  Freedom  but  to  break 
Fetters  for  our  own  dear  sake, 
And,  with  leathern  hearts,  forget 
That  we  owe  mankind  a  debt? 
No!  true  freedom  is  to-  share 
All  the  chains  rour  brothers  wear, 
And,  with  heart  and  hand,  to  be 
Earnest  to  make  others  free! 

They  are  slaves  who  fear  to  speak 
For  the  fallen  and  the  weak; 
They  are  slaves  who  will  not  choose 
Hatred,  scoffing,  and  abuse, 
Rather  than  in  silence  shrink 
From  the  truth  they  needs  must  think; 
They  are  slaves  who  dare  not  be 
In  the  right  with  two  or  three." 

Amen. 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 

I  was  somewhat '  startled,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the  sud- 
den conclusion  of  Elder  Whitney's  remarks,  and  told  him  that  they 
were  short  and  sweet. 

It  is  good,  on  reading  or  hearing  the  truth,  to  be  able  to  assent 
unto  it,  to  feel  it,  and  to  be  able  to  present  it  to  others  so  that  they 
also  can  feel  it.  This  meeting  has  been,  to  me,  one  of  both  pleasure 
and  profit.  The  words  spoken  have  been  actuated  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  My  heart  has  been  touched  and  I  have  been  moved  to 
tears  by  the  impressive  manner  in  which  some  of  the  truths  of  the 
gospel  were  presented  this  afternoon.  We  have  heard  how  peace 
may  be  brought  into  our  lives  and  into  our  homes,  to  the  Nations  and 
to  the  world.  Permit  me  to  add  a  few  words  in  conclusion  of  the 
meeting- 

We  should  be  sympathetic  for  one  another  and  especially  for 
those  who  have  great  sorrows  to  bear.  While  riding  on  a  railway 
train  in  England  on  my  way  to  attend  a  conference,  I  overheard  a 
conversation  between  two  young  women,  in  which  one  was  heard  to 
say  that  she  had  lost  three  brothers  in  the  war.  The  other,  after 
expressing  deep  sympathy,  said  four  in  her  family  had  been  killed. 
The  European  countries  suffered  very  much  more  from  the  war  than 
did  our  own  country,  and  it  does  not  suit  my  feelings  to  hear  Ameri- 
cans speak  of  England,  France,  and  their  allies  who  fought  side  by 
side  with  us  and  suffered  more  than  we,  as  rogues  who  can  not  be 
trusted  in .  a  League  to  prevent  a  repetition  of  such  terrible  expe- 
riences. 

I  am  thankful  that  the  victory  came  with  no  more  loss  of  life 
among  our  own  boys.  It  might  easily  have  been  otherwise.  Had 
my  family  and  I  been  living  in  England  at  the  outbreak  of  the 
war,  my  three  married  sons  and  at  least  four  of  my  sons-in-law  would 
most  likely  have  been  at  the  front  and  possibly  all  of  them  would  have 
been  wounded  or  killed.  I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in 
our  preservation  and  praise  and  thank  him  for  his  blessing  to  me  and 
mine  and  to  you  and  yours  who  were  spared.  I  trust  that  the  right- 
eous blood  shed  during  that  awful  conflict  may  have  a  sanctifying 
influence  upon  the  countries  involved  and  make  precious  to  them  the 
principles  of  freedom  and  liberty  for  which  that  blood  was  shed. 
The  Lord  told  Joseph  Smith  that  He  had  redeemed  this  land  by  the 
shedding  of  blood.  Is  it  not  possible  that  by  the  blood  shed  in  Europe 
during  the  war,  the  countries  there  affected  will  be  redeemed,  and 
as  the  United  States  was  prepared  by  the  establishment  of  principles 
of  freedom  and  justice  as  a  place  in  which  to  receive  Christ's  Church 
and  Kingdom  and  his  gospel,  so  the  nations  of  Europe  may  be  pre- 
pared to  receive  the  King  of  all  and  a  reign  of  universal  peace?  I 
think  the  war  was  not  necessary,  however,  and  that  it  ought  never  to 
have  been.    I  believe  that  it  would  have  been  averted  had  there  been 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN. 


165 


in  existence  a  League  of  Nations,  such  as  is  proposed  in  connection 
with  the  peace  treaty- 

I  am  sure  that  had  the  energies  of  all  the  men  and  money  em- 
ployed in  waging  the  war  been  directed  towards  bettering  condi- 
tions for  humanity  in  ways  indicated  by  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
instead  of  war  and  all  its  attendant  sorrows,  sufferings,  and  losses, 
we  would  have  had  universal  peace  and  good  will  throughout  the 
world.  The  gospel  teaches  us  to  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts 
"and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves ;  to  serve  the  Lord  and  our  fellow- 
men,  being  willing  to  deny  ourselves  and  sacrifice  for  others  even  to 
the  laying  down  of  our  lives  if  need  be.  If  the  world  would  obey 
the  gospel  and  adopt  these  principles  and  live  by  them  it  would  mean 
peace  to  individuals,  peace  to  the  world,  and  would  bring  to  men  glory, 
exaltation  and  eternal  life.  This  is  my  testimony  which  T  bear  to 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang :    "Our  Valley  Home,"  Myrtle  Doelle,  soloist. 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Rodney  C.  Badger,  of 
the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion. 


THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

The  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  Barratt  Hall,  Sunday 
2  p.  m.,  Octooer  5,  1919,  Elder  David  O.  McKay,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  presiding.  The  music  was  furnished  by  the  L. 
D.  S.  High  School  Choir,  P.  Melvin  Peterson,  director. 

The  choir  sang :    "The  Lord  in  strength  victorious." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Harden  Bennion,  of  Vernal,  Utah,  Uintah  stake, 
and  secretary  of  the  State  of  Utah. 

The  choir  sang:  "Rejoice,  the  Lord  is  King." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN 

(President  of  the  Alpine  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters.  I  trust  that  the  few  moments 
I  occupy  I  may  enjoy  the  influence  of  our  heavenly  Father,  for  I 
certainly  feel  that  I  need  his  divine  aid  this  afternoon.  I  have  re- 
joiced exceedingly  in  the  spirit  of  the  meetings  thus  far  during  the 
sessions  of  the  conference.  I  have  been  built  up  in  the  faith,  have 
been  encouraged  in  the  labors  that  devolve  upon  me,  and  have  made 
some  silent  resolutions,  to  be  more  diligent,  if  possible,  in  carrying  on 
the  work  that  rests  upon  my  shoulders  when  I  return  to  our  stake  of 
Zion.  The  Alpine  stake  of  Zion  is  located  in  the  north  end  of  Utah 
county.  There  are  seventeen  wards  in  the  stake.  We  are  some- 
what compact,  and  we  can  visit  every  ward  in  our  stake  and,  if  neces- 
sary, return  home  that  same  evening.  When  I  hear  the  reports  of 
some  of  our  brethren  who  are  compelled  to  make  long  journeys  and 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  devote  a  great  deal  of  time  away  from  home  in  looking  after 
the  work,  I  feel  to  appreciate  our  own  locality  and  the  stake  where 
I  live,  and  ought  not  to  complain  at  the  labors  and  duties  that  nat- 
urally rest  upon  the  officers  in  the  stakes  of  Zion. 

I  was' very  much  impressed  last  evening  when  Elder  Ivins  spoke 
of  the  slogan  for  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations :  Spiritual 
growth  through  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings.  I  thought  perhaps 
if  we  all  could  sense  the  importance  of  this,  as  the  bishop  of  the  ward 
does,  that  we  would  sometimes  make  an  extra  effort  to  be  present 
at  the  sacrament  meetings,  in  order  that  the  bishop  may  appreciate 
our  attendance,  and  we  may  improve  from  the  fact  that  we  are  where 
we  can  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  partake  of  the  influence  of 
his  holy  Spirit.  I  realize  that  in  our  stake  of  Zion  we  have  a  very 
low  average  in  attendance  at  our  sacrament  meetings,  and  I  have 
tried  to  figure  out  why  it  is.  Sometimes  I  have  heard  said  that  if 
they  had  the  right  kind  of  a  bishop  the  attendance  at  the  sacrament 
meetings  would  be  better;  and  then  I  have  sized  up  the  men  who 
preside  in  our  stake  of  Zion,  in  the  various  wards  throughout,  and 
I  know  that  we  have  a  class  of  splendid  men  as  bishops  in  our  stake 
of  Zion.  I  know,  too,  that  they  are  faithful,  that  they  are  regular  in 
their  attendance.  I  have  heard  some  say  that  if  the  bishop  would 
call  the  meeting  to  order  and  commence  on  time,  they  wouldn't  mind 
going  to  meeting,  but  it  is  usually  started  late ;  but  I  know  of  bishops 
in  our  stake  of  Zion  who  are  prompt  in  commencing  their  meetings, 
and  yet  the  benches  are  empty.  Some  have  said  that  if  they  had  a 
good  meeting  house  where  they  could  go  and  have  comfortable  seats 
they  wouldn't  mind  attending  the  meetings,  but  we  have  proven  that 
that  is  not  successful;  for,  since  I  have  been  called  upon  to  act  as  the 
president  of  this  stake,  we  have  erected  quite  a  number  of  beautiful 
buildings  with  splendid  seats,  and  yet  we  find  that  the  attendance  at 
the  sacrament  meetings  is  very  slim.  We  formed  the  habit  of 
reading  a  little  scripture  in  our  wards  just  preparatory  to  calling  up- 
on the  brethren,  or  having  those  who  were  called  upon  to  take  part, 
and  we  thought  perhaps  that  might  induoe  the  Saints  to  be  more 
diligent  in  reading  the  scriptures,  but  some  of  the  Saints  began  to 
complain  that  they  could,  read  the  scriptures  at  home.  Thus  we  find 
some  in  our  stake  of  Zion  who  are  very  hard  to  please,  it  matters 
little  whether  we  have  a  good  building,  splendid  seats,  a  bishop  who 
is  prompt  in  commencing  his  meetings  on  time,  who  is  exemplary  in 
his  habits,  or  not,  the  attendance  remains  about  the  same.  Some- 
times when  we  have  speakers  announced,  who  are  noted  for  their 
ability  to  interest  the  people,  we  will  increase  our  attendance,  and  this 
thought  I  believe  is  one  that  is  important  to  the  brethren  who  preside ; 
if  they  could  realize  that  it  is  necessary  to  prepare  to  feed  the  people 
and  to  give  them  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  though  we  are  com- 
pelled to  go  outside  of  the  ward  sometimes  to  get  speakers  to  come 
in  who  will  bring  the  people  out  and  interest  them  in  the  meetings, 
we  might  succeed.    Of  course,  I  realize,  at  the  same  time,  that  if  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN.  •  167 


Saints  had  a  burning  desire  within  -their  hearts  to  be  fed  with  the 
bread  of  life,  it  would  not  matter  whether  they  were  going  to  have 
a  speaker  they  were  not  accustomed  to  hearing,  nor  not ;  they  would 
nevertheless  go  there  to  partake  of  the  spirit  and  influence  of  the 
meeting.  If  they  went  with  that  desire,  with  a  prayer  in  their  hearts 
that  they  would  be  fed,  I  am  sure  that  they  would  be  built  up  in  their 
faith  and  encouraged  in  their  labors. 

For,  after  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  isn't  altogether  the 
person  who  stands  before  the  congregations  of  Latter-day  Saints 
to  instruct  them,  but  it  is  the  spirit  that  we  have,  and  the  spirit  that 
the  speaker  has,  that  impresses  us  and  makes  us  feel  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  worth  living  for  and  if  necessary  worth  dying  for. 
I  think  the  bishops  ought  to  try  to  make  the  meetings  just  as  inter- 
esting as  it  is  possible.  I  believe  that  they  ought  to  meet  at  least  once 
every  week,  at  a  stated  time,  and  plan  their  work,  and  go  over 
the  affairs  of  the  ward,  to  discover  what  is  needed,  and  the  best  meth- 
od to  adopt  in  order  to  secure  a  better  attendance  and  in  order  to 
instruct  and  inform  the  Saints  of  the  ward  upon  points  that  are  so 
much  needed. 

I  believe  that  we  do  not  use  the  magazines  of  the  Church  enough 
in  our  meetings.  I  am  at  meeting  every  Sunday  somewhere  in  our 
stake  of  Zion,  unless  we  are  at  a  general  conference,  and  I  seldom 
ever  hear  a  selection  read  from  the  magazines  of  the  Church.  I  am 
sure  that  where  the  Saints  are  taking  them  and  reading  them,  there 
is  plenty  of  food  for  reflection  in  every  magazine  that  we  receive, 
and  I  am  sure  that  if  we  would  read  them,  we  would  be  better  able 
to  keep  in  touch  with  the  workings  of  the  Church,  and  with  the  re- 
quirements and  the  desires  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church  who 
preside  over  us. 

I  believe  the  young  people  can  be  used  in  our  sacramept  meet- 
ings, and  with  a  little  judicious  thought  and  careful  planning  that 
they  can  be  brought  in  to  have  experience  vital  to  them,  in  the  read- 
ing of  these  selections  that  are  short  and  to  the  point  that  we  have 
published  from  time  to  time,  and  thus  give  the  young  people  an  op- 
portunity of  using  their  voices  in  public  and  getting  accustomed  to 
speaking  to  the  the  people,  by  reading  these  selections ;  and  if  neces- 
sary, they  might  speak  upon  the  points  about  which  they  read.  I 
think,  too,  that  in  almost  all  our  wards,  we  have  young  people  who 
have  abilities  along  ,the  line  of  singing,  of  playing  musical  instru- 
ments, who  could  be  brought  in  to  make  our  sacrament  meetings  more 
interesting,  so  as  to"  hold  the  young  people.  And  we  find  that  the 
young  people  do  not  attend  the  sacrament  meetings  as  faithfully  as 
we  expect  them  to,  and  as  we  believe  they  should.  We  have  well 
attended  Sabbath  school  meetings.  The  young  people  are  there,  and 
we  appreciate  that  fact,  and  we  realize  also"  that  young  people  are 
not  able  to  appreciate,  perhaps,  as  many  of  the  older  people  are,  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  talked  upon  and  about;  but  we  are  sure  that 
if  they  would  form  the  habit  they  would  obtain  valuable  informa- 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion,  and  if  they  would  partake  of  the  spirit  that  we  have  in  our  meet- 
ings, they  would  feel  it  and  it  would  keep  them,  so  to  speak,  well 
cared  for  during-  their  youthful  days. 

And  I  believe  that  we  should  more  diligently  seek  the  Lord ; 
be  more  anxious  to  know  concerning  his  work.  We  should  have  a 
desire  in  our  hearts  to  know  whether  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  of  divine  origin  or  not.  We  hear  our  brethren 
testify  from  time  to  time  that  they  know  that  it  is  true,  but  if  we 
want  a  testimony  for  ourselves,  I  believe  that  it  is  necessary  that  we 
seek  the  Lord  for  that  testimony.  "Ask  and  ye  shall  receive,"  and  if 
we  have  a  desire  in  our  hearts,  to  be  strengthened  and  to  receive 
testimonies  concerning  this  great  latter-day  work,  if  we  desire  it 
earnestly  enough,  and  will  attend  our  meetings  and  pray  to  the  Lord 
in  sincerity  and  truth,  he  will  give  us  a  testimony  of  the  work  which 
will  be  a  strength  to  us  and  will  help  us  to  defend  it  and  to  stand  by 
it  and  support  those  who  are  leading  amongst  us. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  desire  to  take  more  time 
than  is  necessary  and  due  me,  but  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony, 
and  to  give  you  a  testimony  that  I  received  last  winter,  that  gave  me 
great  strength.    A  young  lady  came  to  me  last  winter  and  said : 

"I  would  like  to  have  you  and  President  Clark  and  Patriarch 
Warren  B.  Smith"  (who  was  formerly  the  bishop)  "go  over  to  Lehi" 
(a  distance  of  three  miles)  "and  administer  to  a  lady  who  is  very 
sick." 

I  said,  "Why,  they  have  brethren  over  there  who  are  just  as 
good  as  we  are,  and  I  don't  know  why  we  should  go  over  there." 

She  said,  "Well,  I  just  feel  that  if  you  brethren  will  go  over  there 
and  administer  to  that  girl,  she.  will  get  better." 

"Well,  if  it  is  all  right  with  the  brethren  over  there,  why  it  will 
be  all  right." 

So  we  went  over,  and  we  met  at  the  home  where  the  girl  was 
sick,  and  when  we  went  into  the  room  the  grandfather  of  the  girl 
came  to  the  door.  He  said,  "Now,  brethren,  this  is  a  very  peculiar 
sickness  that  this  young  lady  has ;  she  is  out  of  her  mind,  she  doesn't 
know  what  she  is  doing,  and  if  she  knows  you  brethren  are  here,  we 
will  not  be  able  to  hold  her ;  you  can  come  in,  she  is  in  the  next 
room."  We  went  in;  a  cousin  of  the  young  lady  was  present;  also 
one  of  our  brethren,  a  member  of  our  high  council;  also  President 
Abel  John  Evans.  We  heard  the  statement  of  the  grandfather  and 
of  the  mother  of  the  girl.  She  had  been  in  this  condition  for  nearly 
two  weeks ;  they  had  been  unable  to  control  her.  She  refused  to  talk, 
and  she  was  able  to  eat  but  very  little,  except  what  they  could  induce 
her  to  eat,  with  a  great  deal  of  effort,  to  maintain  her  existence.  When 
we  sat  there  deliberating  upon  what  we  should  do,  we  thought  per- 
haps she  was  possessed  of  evil  spirits,  and  we  remembered  the  saying 
of  the  Savior  that  this  healing  or  administration  should  be  done 
with  fasting  and  prayer.   We  sat  there  deliberating  upon  the  subiect 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  CHIP  MAN. 


169 


whether  we  ought  to  fast'  and  pray  first  before  we  administered,  or 
whether  we  ought  to  administer  immediately  to  her.  As  we  did  so 
"  the  thought  came  to  us  that  if  we  let  brother  so  and  so  go 
in,  with  whom  she  is  acquainted,  perhaps  he  could  pacify  her.  As  soon 
as  we  had  decided  that  this  brother  should  go  in  and  talk  to  her,  she 
sprang  out  of  the  arms  of  those  who  were  trying  to  hold  her  and 
opened  the  door  into  the  room  where  we  were,  then  counted  just  like 
that  (illustrating),  and  she  went  back  and  wrote  on  a  piece  of  paper, 
"five  evil  spirits,"  and  then  she  wrote  underneath  these  words :  "I  don't 
want  brother  so  and  so  to  come  in  here;  I  hate  him."  Now  how 
she  knew  that  we  had  decided  on  that  brother  to  go  into  that  room 
I  don't  know,  but  after  a  great  deal  of  persuasion  the  little  girl  who 
came  to  get  us  persuaded  her  to  let  a  couple  of  the  brethren  come  in 
and  administer  to  her,  and  she  said  she  would,  and  wrote  it  down. 
When  the  brethren  went  in  she  was  standing  with  her  face  toward 
the  wall ;  wouldn't  look  at  them ;  they  couldn't  get  her  to  sit  down,  but 
with  the  persuasion  of  this  young  lady,  who  seemed  to  have  a  great 
deal  of  influence  with  her,  they  persuaded  her  to  sit  down  on  a  chair, 
and  one  of  the  brethren  anointed  her  head  with  oil  and  the  other 
brother  confirmed  the  anointing  and  commanded  and  demanded  that 
the  evil  spirit  depart  from  her  body  and  leave  the  room,  when  she 
?aftk  riown  just  like  a  limp  rag.  It  was  necessary  to  pick  her  up  and 
place  her  on  the  lounge.  She  lay  there  just  as  weak  as  she  could  pos- 
sibly be,  without  any  strength,  and  before  this,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  grandfather  told  me  that  he  had  strained  his  wrists  try- 
ing to  hold  her,  she  was  so  strong. 

About  the  third  day  after  this  administration,  I  received  a  tele- 
phone message  to  come  to  the  home  of  this  young  lady  who  wanted  us 
to  go  and  administer  to  this  girl,  and  I  went  up  to  the  home,  and  when 
I  arrived  there,  this  young  lady  who  had  been  administered  to  was 
present,  just  as  well  and  normal  as  we  are  here  now,  talked  sensiblv, 
and  has  been  well  ever  since.  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  tell 
you  this  incident  that  the  young  people  of  Zion  may  know  that  the 
gifts  of  the  gospel,  promised  to  the  believers,  are  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  order  that  they  may  be  encouraged  and  feel  that  there 
is  power  in  the  Priesthood. 

We  ought  to  honor  our  brethren  who  preside  in  our  wards  and 
stakes,  and  in  the  Church,  uphold  their  hands,  and  try  to  carry  out 
the  requirements  made  of  us,  no  matter  how  small.  If  we  will  do 
this,  I  will  promise  you,  having  had  now  a  great  deal  of  experience 
in  this  work,  having  noticed  the  growth  of  our  young  people  in  the 
Church,  that  if  the  young  men  and  young  women  will  fasten  on  to 
the  work  and  labor  at  it  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth,  they  will 
grow  in  graoe  and  in  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and  will  be  more 
useful  in  the  Church  in  carrying  on  the  work. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us,  to  appreciate  our  standing  in  the 
Church,  and  the  privileges  and  the  opportunities  that  come  to  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE 

(President  of  the  Boise  Stake  of  Zion) 

The  deliberations  and  instructions  of  this  conference  have  been 
to  me  a  wonderful  source  of  inspiration,  and  I  am  very  glad  to  say 
that  under  the  spirit  that  has  prevailed  I  am  perfectly  able,  without 
any  reservation  whatever,  to  harmonize  all  my  feelings,  all  my  opinions, 
and  all  my  beliefs,  on  all  questions  that  have  been  presented  and  dis- 
cussed, with  the  instructions  that  have  been  given.  In  the^  thrilling 
appeals  made  by  oiy  President,  and  others  of  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken,  my  mind  has  repeatedly  gone  to  a  certain  scripture  found  in 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  prophet  Brigham  Young,  contained  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  136:27: 

Thou  shalt  be  diligent  in  preserving  what  thou  hast,  that  thou  mayest 
be  a  wise  steward;  for  it  is  the  free  gift  of  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  thou 
a;  I  his  steward. 

To  my  mind,  the  crying  need  of  the  age  is  for  us  to  do  the  very 
best  we  can  with  what  we  have.  No  one  has  a  gift,  a  talent,  or  a 
possession,  so  humble,  so  insignificant,  so  unimportant,  but  what  that 
gift,  that  talent,  that  possession,  can  be  made  serviceable  to  the  human 
family,  and  become  a  blessing  and  a  help  to  the  one  who  possesses  it. 
All  that  we  are  and  all  that  we  have,  are  the  free  gifts  of  God.  So  by 
the  grace  of  God  we  are  made  his  stewards,  and  given  the  direction  of 
the  affairs  of  our  'bodies,  as  a  steward  is  given  the  management  of  an 
estate.  And  it  is  given  us  to  say,  mainly,  what  our  eyes  shall  see,  to 
control  to  a  large  extent  what  our  ears  shall  hear,  what  our  tongues 
shall  speak,  what  our  hands  shall  do,  where  our  feet  shall  lead  us,  and 
what  shall  be  stored  in  the  brain.  I  sometimes  wonder  how  we,  as  the 
stewards  of  God,  are  conducting  these  precious  and  sacred  affairs  that 
have  been  committed  into  our  hands.  Are  we  doing  the  very  best  we 
can  with  what  we  have,  or  are  we  burying  our  talents,  losing  sight  of 
our  gifts  and  our  blessings,  and  wishing  for  things  that  we  do  not 
possess,  and  cannot  get?  When  the  Master  calls  upon  us  to  give  an 
accounting,  can  he  say  to  us :  "Well  done,  thou  good,  and  faithful 
servant ;  thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee 
ruler  over  many  things  ;  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord"  ?  Or  will 
he  say:  "Thou  wicked  and  slothful  servant.  .  .  .  Take,  therefore, 
the  talent  from  him  and  give  it  unto  him  which  hath  ten  talents"?  How 
many  of  us,  stewards,  make  the  Master  welcome  when  he  calls  by  the 
presence  of  his  Spirit  through  the  medium  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
express  representative  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son?  How  many  of  us 
invite  him  into  our  home?  How  many  of  us  make  him  welcome  in  all 
the  house  ?  Or  do  we  assign  him  to  what  we  commonly  call  the  "spare 
room"  or  the  "guest  chamber,"  where  no  friend  or  brother  would  like 
to  be  consigned  ?  Why  not  invite  him  into  the  kitchen  or  into  the 
living  room,  where  the  wife  and  the  children  are,  by  the  hearth  or  the 


ELDER  HEBER  Q.  HALE. 


171 


fireplace?  There  is  where  he  loves  to  come.  There  is  where  he  loves 
to  be,  and  there  is  where  we  need  him  most.  Oh,  we  need  the  divine, 
sweet,  all-inspiring  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  all  the  house  of  our 
souls,  in  every  room,  every  day,  and  in  all  our  affairs.  Let  us  remember 
that  he  is  a  guest,  he  comes  only  when  invited,  and  stays  only  so 
long  as  he  is  made  welcome;  and  when  we  re-claim  for  ourselves  any 
appetite,  any  passion,  any  desire,  he  will  vacate  and  give  us  possession. 
Such  is  the  mission  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  great  Spirit  emanating  as  a 
personage  of  the  Godhead,  the  third  personage  of  the  Holy  Trinity, 
to  lead,  to  guide,  to  inspire  into  all  truth,  and  no  one  can  be  led  into 
all  truth  without  him. 

There  is  something  peculiarly  significant  in  the  history  of  the 
Jewish  people.  For  something  like  four  thousand  years  they  had 
looked  forward  to  the  coming  of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  when 
he  came,  the  first  thing  we  read  of  him  is,  there  was  no  room  for  him  in 
the  inn  at  Bethlehem.  And  I  am  led,  sometimes,  to  wonder  if  there 
would  be  room  for  him  if  he  came  today.  I  wonder  if  he  could  find  a 
place  where  he  would  be  made  welcome.  What  nation  would  receive 
him  as  its  king?  What  church  would  resign  to  him?  What  pastor 
would  step  down  from  the  pulpit  and  say,  "Take  my  place ;  I  have 
only  been  serving  pending  the  time  of  your  coming?"  I  fear  that  the 
world  is  not  quite  prepared  yet  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  to 
rule  and  reign  as  "King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords."  I  would  rather 
pray,  it  seems  to  me  as  I  feel  now,  that  his  coming  might  be  delayed,  at 
least  until  we  could  purify  our  hearts,  set  our  own  houses  in  order, 
and  carry  forward  unt6  the  nations  of  the  earth  the  sacred  mission 
that  has  been  committed  unto  us,  that  more  souls  may  be  saved  and 
fewer  souls  lost  before  the  coming  of  that  "great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord." 

We  have  heard  at  this  conference  that  there  is  too  much  policy 
among  men,  and  let  me  add,  among  churches  and  among  nations,  and 
also  say  there  is  too  much  politics  among  men  and  among  churches 
and  among  nations.  We  need  more  of  the  real  and  less  of  the  coun- 
terfeit. We  need  men  and  women — the  world  need's  them — who  will 
arise  and  stand  for  what  they  know  to  be  right  at  all  times  and  under 
all  circumstances.  We  find  too  often  that  love  is  counterfeited  by  lust ; 
prudishness  is  made  to  pass  for  virtue;  cleverness  for  wisdom,- apathy 
for  peace,  self-congratulation  for  gratitude.  The  world  needs  to  be 
humbled  with  the  thought  that  all  that  we  have  and  are  we  owe  in  an 
unpayable  debt  to  God  who  gave  us  life.  We  need  among  us, 
even  ourselves  as  Latter-day  Saints,  more  gratitude  and  larger  love, 
more  sympathy  for  each  other  and  for  all  human  kind.  And  I  fear  that 
other  calamities,  I  fear  that  other  punishments,  will  come  upon  the 
earth ;  that  the  Lord  will  have  to  speak  through  the  sterner  forces_  of 
nature,  which  seem  to  be  his  only  means  in  many  instances  of  arousing 
the  feelings  and  the  thoughts  and  appreciations  of  people  to  the  condi- 
tion in  which  they  stand,  having  closed  their  ears  to  the  spoken  word, 
their  eyes  and  hearts  to  the  written  word  of  God.    We  need  to  stand 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

for  honesty  for  honesty's  sake,  and  forever  put  into  the  discard  that 
most  misleading  aphorism,  "Honesty  is  the  best  policy."  Let  no  man 
be  honest  for  policy's  sake.  Let  him  be  honest  for  honesty's  sake.  Let 
him  be  virtuous  for  the  sake  and  love  of  virtue.  Let  him  pay  his  tithing 
not  for  the  hope  of  reward,  but  because  he  loves  to  contribute  his  share, 
out  of  appreciation  of  all  that  he  has  received,  for  the  onward  progress 
and  assistance  of  God's  work  in  the  earth.  We  need  to  be  honest  with 
ourselves,  honest  with  each  other. 

A  minister  once  announced  to  his  congregation  that  he  would,  on 
the  following  Sunday,  speak  on  the  subject  of  "Liars,"  and  directed 
his  congregation  to  read  the  seventeenth  chapter  of  Mark.  The  next 
Sunday  he  reminded  the  congregation  of  his  subject,  and  asked  how 
many  had  read  the  text  in  the  seventeenth  chapter  of  Mark.  About 
two  hundred  and  fifty  hands  went  up.  He  said,  "Just  hold  your  hands 
right  there  for  a  moment ;  you  are  the  very  people  that  I  want  to  talk 
to  today ;  there  is  no  seventeenth  chapter  of  Mark." 

As  stewards  of  God  we  must  be  truly  appreciative  of  the  things 
we  receive.  One  has  said  that,  "Ingratitude  is  a  crime  more  despicable 
than  revenge  which  is  only  returning  evil  for  evil,  while  ingratitude 
returns  evil  for  good."  You  remember  that  of  the  ten  lepers  healed 
by  Christ,  only  one  returned  to  give  thanks.  A  beautiful  legend  tells 
the  story  of  two  angels  that  were  sent  forth  throughout  the  land,  each 
given  a  basket,  one  to  gather  up  requests  and  the  other  thanksgivings. 
The  angel  of  requests  came  back  with  her  basket  running  over  full. 
The  angel  of  thanksgivings  came  back  with  her  basket  practically 
.empty.  So  it  is  in  life.  It  seems  that  all  have  requests  to  make,  but 
few  of  us  think  to  return  and  give  thanks. 

I  wonder  if  we  sometimes  stop  to  think  of  our  debt  of  gratitude 
unto,  for  instance,  our  parents ;  what  we  owe  them,  and  how  we  might 
discharge  our  obligation  unto  them.  In  what  kind  of  coin  would  you 
pay  father  and  mother  for  what  they  have  done  for  you,  brother,  sister? 
What  do  you  owe  for  the  Bible  ?  For  the  sermon  on  the  mount,  as  only 
one  inspirational  chapter  in  that  Bible?  What  is  your  debt  of  gratitude 
for  the  Book  of  Mormon?  For  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants?  For  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price?  What  do  you  owe  the  pioneers  of  this  western 
country  ?  What  do  you  owe  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  ?  What  do  you 
owe  the  inventors,  the  discoverers,  the  statesmen,  the  poets,  the 
philosophers  ?  What  do  you  owe  for  all  the  modern  conveniences  and 
blessings  of  the  commercial  and  the  industrial  world  ?  And  how  are  you 
going  to  begin  to  discharge  these  obligations,  my  brother,  my  sister? 
The  only  way  we  can  discharge  our  obligations  to  our  parents  is  to  live 
our  lives,  as  sons  and  daughters,  so  as  to  bring  credit  to  the  name  we 
bear  and  make  our  parents  feel,  before  they  die,  to  thank  God  that  that 
mother  had  the  privilege  of  giving  birth  to  that  son,  and  not  regret 
one  hour  of  vigil  spent  over  his  cradle,  not  regret  one  tear  she  has  ever 
shed  for  him,,  or  one  hour  of  labor  spent  for  him;  and  then  for  us  to 
go  on  and  fulfil  our  missions  in  life  and  become  parents  ourselves.  Then 
we  can  begin  to  pay  the  debt  we  owe  father  and  mother.    The  only 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS.  173 

way  we  can  begin  to  discharge  our  obligations  to  the  world  for  all  that 
we  have  received  is  to  so  live  that  we  can  make  the  world  better  for  our 
having  been  in  it ;  that  every  citizen  of  our  acquaintance  can  point  to  us 
with  pride  as  his  neighbor ;  to  take  upon  our  shoulders  a  share  of  the 
world's  work  and  be  of  actual  service  to  our  f  ellowmen ;  to  be  clean 
in  body  and  soul,  and  see  to  it  that  our  feet  shall  never  lead  into 
places  where  we  would  not  want  our  children  to  follow. 

General  Pershing,  standing  before  the  assembled  houses  of  Con- 
gress on  the  18th  of  last  month,  upon  his  triumphant  return  from 
France,  said,  among  other  things,  in  giving  his  report:  "The  burdens 
that  fell  to  the  lot  of  our  soldiers  have  been  heavy,  and  the  way  beset 
by  many  obstacles,  but  faith  in  the  righteousness  of  our  cause  and  trust 
in  Almighty  God  have  given  us  courage  and  inspiration."  So  I  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  our  burdens  may  be  heavy  and  our  way 
may  be  beset  by  many  obstacles,  yet  faith  in  the  righteousness  of  our 
cause,  which  is  the  greatest  cause  under  heaven,  and  trust  in  Almighty 
God,  who  is  our  Father  and  our  Defender,  will  give  us  courage  and 
inspiration,  and  we,  like  our  great  general,  will  come  out  victorious  in 
the  end,  and  God  will  look  upon  our  labors  well  pleased. 

God  bless  us  with  courage  and  faith  and  love  and  sympathy  and 
gratitude,  that  we  may  be  wise  stewards  and  do  the  very  best  we  can 
with  what  we  have,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  him  whose  servants  we  are 
and  in  whose  vineyard  we  labor.  Amen. 

Alexander  Anderson,  sang  a  solo:  "I  Come  to  Thee." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

This  morning  at  8  :30  o'clock,  a  meeting  was  held  in  the  upper 
room  of  the  Bishop's  building,  on  this  block,  by  representatives  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of  the  Church.  No 
program  had  been  arranged ;  it  was  an  informal  meeting,  and  as  it 
progressed  I  thought  of  this  scripture,  which  I  will  read,  from  Joel : 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  TESTIMONY. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward,  that  I  will  pour  out  my  Spirit  upon 
all  flesh;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy,  your  old  men 
shall  dream  dreams,  your  young  men  shall  see  visions: 

And  also  upon  the  servants  and  upon  the  handmaids  in  those  days  will 
I  pour  out  my  Spirit. 

The  meeting  was  given  to  the  congregation,  and  men  were  asked 
to  give  expression  to  their  faith,  and  to  make  any  suggestion  they 
might  feel  like  making  regarding  the  important  work  in  which  this 
auxiliary  pssociation  of  the  Church  is  engaged.  They  stood  upon  their 
feet,  frequently  two  or  three  at  the  same  time.  There  were  men  there 
from  Canada,  from  Idaho,  from  northern  Utah,  men  from  Arizona 
and  from  Mexico.  There  were  tall  men  and  short  men ;  some  of  them 
were  light  complexioned,  some  dark  complexioned ;  some  were  older 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


men,  others  quite  young  men.  There  was  great  diversity  of  character 
written  in  their  faces  and  exemplified  in  their  words,  but  there  was  this 
one  thing  which  characterized  the  remarks  made  by  every  person  who 
spoke.  They  all  had  the  same  testimony,  it  made  no  matter  where 
they  lived.  They  all  bore  witness  to  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work.  They  all  bore  witness  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  himself, 
our  Father,  who  is  in  heaven,  had  made  good  this  promise  which  I 
have  read  here  from  Joel,  although  none  of  them  referred  to  it,  that 
in  the  latter  days  he  would  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  the  people,  that 
the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  referred'  to  by  Brother  Hale,  would  be 
among  men  again;  and,  not  only  men  but  women,  would  enjoy  it.  It 
was  a  veritable  time  of  refreshing  to  sit  there  and  listen  to  the  testi- 
monies of  these  people.  Men,  some  of  them,  who  had  gone  away  from 
the  Church  in  their  youth ;  they  had  been  careless,  indifferent,  had  gone 
off  into  mining  camps ;  their  lives  had  not  been  the  lives  that  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  lead,  but  when  they  had  turned  to  the  Lord  and 
sought  him  in  faith,  he  had  never  failed  to  respond  to  their  petition. 
And  now  they  had  been  born  to  newness  of  life,  they  knew  the  truth, 
they  were  enlisted  in  God's  cause,  and  their  lives  devoted  to  his  work. 
It  was  a  witness  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  fulfilment  of 
the  words  of  the  Redeemer  himself. 

You  know  that  men  sought  Jesus.  They  desired'  to  know  the  way 
by  which  they  might  attain  to  everlasting  life.  They  offered  money 
on  occasions.  But  he  told  them  that  the  gifts  of  God  could  not  be 
purchased  with  money,  and  bore  witness  that  except  a  man  be  born 
again  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God.  Nicodemus  marveled  at  that. 
He  did  not  understand  what  it  meant.  Then  the  Redeemer  illustrated 
the  thought  by  saying,  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the 
Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."  How  often  in  the 
Church  we  encounter  people  who  lack  faith !  People  addressed  us  at 
that  meeting  this  morning  who,  I  knew,  because  of  their  accent  and 
peculiarity  of  speech,  were  not  American  born.  I  knew  they  had  come 
from  abroad.  I  knew  the  gospel  had  found  them  away  over  there  in 
England,  possibly  in  Ireland,  possibly  in  Scotland,  or  in  Wales,  or  in 
Scandinavia,  or  other  of  those  old  world  countries.  Their  testimony 
was  the  very  same  as 'the  testimony  of  boys  whom  I  knew,  and  who 
were  there  this  morning,  whose  grandfathers  were  in  the  Church, 
who  were  among  those  who  first  carried  the  gospel  into  the  old  world. 
There  is  no  difference  of  nationality ;  there  is  no  difference  of  sex.  It 
doesn't  matter  where  we  live,  doesn't  matter,  as  I  remarked,  whether 
we  are  tall  or  short  or  blonde  or  brunette,  if  we  go  to  the  Lord  he  will 
make  good  the  promise  which  he  has  made  to  the  people  of  the  world, 
that  "He  who  seeketh  me  in  faith  shall  find  me,  he  who  asketh  in 
faith  believing,  I  will  answer;  to  him  who  knocketh,  I  will  open;"  and 
just  as  certain,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  the  Lord  has  made  good 
♦hot  nromise.  so  is  it  certain  that  he  who  does  not  seek  does  not  find, 
l-."m  who  ('oes  not  knock  it  is  not  opened,  and  to  him  who  has  no 
desire  to  know  the  truth,  truth  is  a  sealed'  book. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IV1NS. 


175 


A  REBIRTH  NECESSARY — A  CONVERSION  TO  THE  <,OSPEL. 

I  have  often  thought,  and  I  have  thought  of  it  recently  more  than 
at  any  other  period  in  my  life,  that  there  is,  it  seems  to  me,  among 
young  men  and  women  in  the  Church,  a  spirit  of  indifference.  This  is 
not  general,  but  there  are  too  many  exceptions  to  the  general  rule. 
We  find  among  these  boys  and  girls  a  lack  of  faith,  a  lack  of  knowl- 
edge ;  among  many  of  them  apparently  there  is  a  sincere  desire  to  know, 
and  yet  they  appear  to  be  in  doubt ;  I  wonder  if  we  have  not  thought,  we 
fathers  and  mothers,  that  from  the  fact  that  our  children  were  born  in 
the  Church,  born  under  the  covenant,  and  that  we  have,  in  the  Church, 
auxiliary  associations  that  are  designed  to  teach  faith, — whether  we 
have  not  left  our  children  entirely  to  the  direction,  or  to  a  great  extent 
to  the  direction,  of  these  facts  and  organizations,  and  we  have  neglected 
to  impress  upon  their  minds  that  boys  and  girls  born  in  the  Church  of 
gocdly  parents  must  be  born  again  to  know  Christ  and  God,  just  as  a 
person  who  has  been  born  in  the  world  must.  It  isn't  sufficient  that  our 
parents  had  faith.  We  cannot  live  and  survive  upon  the  faith  of  others. 
These  boys  and  girls  here,  who  are  in  this  choir  in  attendance  upon 
this  school,  good  boys  and  girls,  never  can  know  the  truths  of  the 
gospel  to  satisfy  their  souls  unless  they  go  to  the  Lord  for  it;  and  I 
promise  them,  as  I  promise  all  men  and  women,  that  the  prayer  of 
faith  will  bring  response,  comfort  will  come  to  our  hearts  and  our  souls, 
and  that  invisible  but  nevertheless  potent  power  which  bears  witness  of 
the  truth  will  satisfy  us  so  that  we  cannot  be  in  doubt,  and  once  we  are 
thus  converted  to  the  truth,  the  whole  work  practically  is,  accom- 
plished. We  are  worried  to  know  what  means  we  may  adopt  to  pro- 
tect our  children  from,  the  sins  of  the  world,  from  the  great  wave  of 
immorality  that  is  sweeping  over  the  country  today  as  it  has  never 
swept  over  it  before.  We  may  study  devices,  we  may  discuss  ways  and 
means,  but  we  will  never  find  an  effective  way  to  combat  it,  except 
through  conversion  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  to  get  our  hearts  in 
communion  with  God  our  Father,  to  become  possessors  of  his  Spirit, 
for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  protect  us  from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
I  do  not  believe  that  a  boy  or  girl  who  has  in  sincerity  prayed  to  God 
when  he  or  she  arose  in  the  morning,  or  when  he  or  she  retired  to 
bed  at  night,  has  ever  transgressed  the  laws  of  the  Lord  upon  that  day. 
He  will  protect  them.  But  when  we  forget  him,  we  are  left  without  that 
necessary  guidance  and  protection.  So  I  appeal  to  you  to  exercise  faith. 
Parents,  inspire  in  the  hearts  of  your  children  a  desire  to  establish  closer 
relationship  with  the  Lord. 

CONVINCING  TESTIMONY  OF  A  CONVERSION. 

This  homely  story  may  illustrate  my  thought  as  well  as  anything 
I  could  tell.  When  I  was  a  boy,  I  had  close  friends,  as  all  boys  have, 
neighbors  with  whom  I  was  chummy,  and  among  them  was  a  boy  about 
my  own  age.  We  lived  near  together ;  we  went  to  school  together.  This 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


boy  had  two  older  brothers.  His  parents  were  devoted  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  country  at  that  time  was  wild  and  lawless  along  the 
frontier.  Those  older  brothers  became  freighters ;  they  loved  horses 
and  mules,  and  they  delighted  in  putting  together  splendid  teams,  and 
drove  those  teams  into  Montana,  and  west  into  Nevada,  and  down  to 
the  coast  in'  California,  freighting  back  merchandise  which  in  those 
days  was  needed  for  the  use  of  the  people.  They  became  two  of  the 
most  profane  men  I  ever,  knew,  indifferent  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers, 
and  intemperate.  One  day  the  body  of  the  elder  of  those  two  boys  was 
brought  into  our  town,  and  his  funeral  services  were  held  there.  He 
had  been  killed  in  a  difficulty  with  another  man.  The  other,  the  next  ol- 
der, brother  drifted  away,  and  I  lost  sight  of  him.  But  this  boy,  who 
was  my  chum,T  grew  up  with,  and  pretty  soon  he  obtained  a  team  and 
he  went  off  to  Silver  Reef  to  freight,  and  learned  to  swear,  and  he  was 
following  the  very  road  that  his  older  brothers  had  followed.  About 
that  time  I  lost  track  of  him.  I  went  to  Mexico.  I  came  back  after 
fifteen  or  twenty  years,  and  had  occasion  to  go  up  into  Idaho  to  visit 
one  of  the  stakes  of  the  Church.  I  found  this  man  there,  presiding  as 
bishop  of  one  of  the  wards !  I  found  one  of  his  sons  the  bishop  of 
another  ward.  I  found  another  son  president  of  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association ;  and  one  or  two  of  the  boys  had  been  on  missions. 
He  had  a  splendid  home  there,  presided  over  in  dignity  by  his  good 
wife. 

I  looked  at  it  all  with  wonder,  and  he  smiled  and  said,  "I  know 
what  you  are  thinking  about." 

I  said,  "Tell  me  how  it  all  happened." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "you  know  that  I  was  going  just  the  way  my 
brothers  went." 

"Yes,"  I  said,  "that  is  what  surprises  me." 

"My  parents  had  always  taught  me  a  better  way,"  he  said ;  "they 
had  urged  me  to  read  the  scriptures,  and  finally  I  decided  that  I  would 
read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  I  did  while  I  was  freighting.  I  read  it 
through,  and  when  I  came  to  certain  words  in  the  last  chapter  of 
Moroni,  I  was  very  deeply  impressed  with  them."  These  are  the  words 
to  which  he  referred: 

And  I  seal  up  these  records,  after  I  have  spoken  a  few  words  by  way 
of  exhortation  unto  you. 

Behold  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it 
he  wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how 
merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation  of 
Adam,  even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and 
ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

He  said,  "When  I  read  those  words,  I  thought  I  would  put  the 
Lord  to  the  test,  and  I  stopped'  my  team,  wrapped  the  Titles  around  the 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  WINS.  177 


brake,  and  got  down  from  that  high  seat,  on  one  of  those  old-fashioned 
California  wagons  that  were  common  in  early  days,  and  I  turned  off 
from  the  road;  and,  you  remember  that  piece  of  straight  road,"  he 
said,  "just  below  the  twist?" 

"Yes,"  I  said,  "I  remember  every  rock  there  is  on  it,  because  I 
have  freighted  over  it." 

"Well,  I  went  out  there,"  he  said,  "under  those  high  cliffs  to  the 
east  of  the  road,  went  around  behind  some  rocks  where  no  one  could 
see  me,  kneeled  down  there,  and  thought  I  would  pray,  and  I  couldn't 
say  a  word." 

Have  any  of  you  boys  and  girls  ever  tried  to  pray  for  the  first 
time  and  found  it  difficult  to  say  a  word?  There  is  always  someone 
right  there  near  you  telling  you  you  cannot  pray,  and  it  would  not  do 
any  good  if  you  did.  That  is  one  of  the  devices  of  the  enemy  of  truth 
to  prevent  you  from  placing  yourself  in  harmony  with  the  Lord. 

"But,"  he  said,  "by  making  a  great  effort  I  managed  to  appeal 
to  the  Lord,  told  him  that  I  wanted  to  know  the  truth,  and  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  those  fellows  on  the  day  of  Pentecost  never  received  a 
stronger  testimony  than  I  did;  I  felt  that  I  was  surrounded  by  con- 
suming fire,  and  I  got  up  on  my  feet  knowing  just  as  well  that  the 
Lord  lived,  that  Christ  was  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  the  gospel 
had  been  restored  through  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  a  divine  record,  as  I  knew  that  I  was  there ;  and  I 
got  on  to  my  wagon,  drove  home,  left  the  road  and  came  up  here, 
located  on  this  quarter  section  of  land,  and  you  can  see  the  rest." 

PRAYER  IS  THE  ROAD  TO  CONVERSION. 

Shortly  after  that,  I  was  back  at  my  old  home,  and  met  another 
friend  of  mine,  with  whom  I  had  been  more  familiar  than  with  the 
other.  He  was  an  entirely  different  kind  of  boy.  There  was  nothing 
wild  nor  rough  in  his  character.  His  father  and  mother  were  very 
refined  people.  We  grew  up  together.  As  we  got  older,  our  interests 
became  identical.  We  traveled  together,  we  rode  the  range  together; 
we  went  out  for  days  and  sometimes  weeks  together,  sleeping  under 
the  same  blankets.  All  this  time  my  faith  was  developing,  I  was  read- 
ing the  scriptures,  I  was  praying  to  the  Lord,  and  I  was  full  of  desire 
to  convert  this  boy  companion  of  mine;  but  for  some  reason  I  never 
could  make  any  impression  upon  him. 

So  in  after  years,  when  I  went  back  there  and  found  him,  his  hair 
whiter  than  mine,  I  talked  with  him.  I  called  him  by  name.  I  said, 
"We  are  getting  old,  we  ought  to  be  doing  something,  we  ought  to  be 
thinking  of  the  future."  He  had  never  married.  A  more  industrious 
man  I  never  knew.  I  never  heard  him  speak  an  improper  word.  But 
he  had  never  married.  I  said,  "For  my  sake,  if  not  for  your  own,  I 
want  to  urge  that  you  study  the  word  of  the  Lord ;  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon." 


178  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"Why,"  he  said,  "I  have  just  finished  reading  it,  and  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  too." 

I  said,  "What  did  you  find  in  them?" 

"Why,  I  found  lots  of  good  things,  and  nothing  that  was  bad." 
"Did  it  impress  you  particularly,  did  it  change  your  religious  view, 
did  it  add  to  your  faith?" 
"No,  not  specially." 

I  said,  "Did  you  ask  the  Lord  to  help  you,  as  you  read  those  books, 
to  make  you  understand  them,  comprehend  their  meaning  and  their  im- 
portance to  you?" 

He  looked  up  at  me  and  said,  "Toney,  I  never  prayed  a  word  in  my 
life." 

I  knew  then  why  he  lacked  faith;  I  knew  then  why  testimony  of 
the  truth  never  came  to  him,  and  I  knew  that  it  mattered  not  how  long 
he  lived,  unless  he  went  to  the  Lord,  pleading  with  him  for  grace  to 
understand,  that  he  never  would  comprehend  his  word  and  will  as  he 
might  otherwise  have  done. 

Now  that  is  the  secret  of  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  That  is  what 
I  want  to  say  to  these  boys  and  girls  here.  If  you  are  in  trouble,  go  to 
the  Lord ;  if  you  are  tempted,  go  to  him ;  if  you  have,  in  an  unguarded 
moment,  done  that  which  is  wrong,  go  to  the  Lord.  He  will  forgive 
and  pardon  transgression  and  sin,  no  matter  though  it  may  have  been 
grave.  No  persons  are  so  far  lost,  except  they  may  have  committed  the 
unpardonable  sin,  and  that  would  be  exceedingly  rare,  that  God's  arms 
are  not  stretched  out  to  them  for  their  redemption.  Our  transgressions 
will  be  blotted  out  from  the  book  of  his  remembrance,  our  sins  will 
be  washed  white  as  wool,  through  faith  in  him,  and  our  hearts  will 
be  filled  with  joy,  and  confidence  in  ourselves,  in  each  other,  and  in 
our  Father,  through  the  exercise  of  faith. 

LET  US  DO  OUR  PART  IN  HUMILITY  AND  FAITH. 

Now  may  the  Lord  bless  us  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help 
us  at  this  time,  when  his  help  is  so  greatly  needed,  needed  as  it  never 
before  has  been  needed  in  the  history  of  the  Church  and  in  the  history 
of  the  world,  for  we  have  never  before  been  confronted  by  such  prob- 
lems, never  before  has  the  world,  has  civilization,  been  in  greater  dan- 
ger, never  before  has  so  much  depended  upon  you  and  upon  me  for  the 
redemption  of  the  world  and  the  maintenance  of  the  doctrines  of  the 
gospel  in  it.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  our  part,  each  of  us,  in  humil- 
ity before  him,  I  humbly  pray.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

There  have  been  many  features  of  this  most  excellent  conference 
that  have  delighted  my  soul.  I  have  rejoiced  with  you  in  the  won- 
derful testimonies  that  have  been  given,  and  in  the  divine  instructions 
that  have  fallen  from  the  lips  of  those  who  have  addressed  us. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  MCKAY. 


179 


YOUNG  PEOPLE  PRESENT  A  FEATURE  OF  THIS  GREAT  CONFERENCE 

But  I  want  to  tell  you  this  afternoon  that  among  the  most  pleas- 
ing features  of  this  entire  conference,  to  me  one  of  the  most  gratify- 
ing, is  the  attendance  at  this  overflow  meeting  of  so  many  young  men 
and  young  women.  There  are  present  here  not  only  the  boys  and 
girls  from  the  school,  who  have  come  here  in  response  to  the  call  of 
duty  (I  am  not  so  sure  but  some  of  you  would  not  have  been  here, 
if  it  had  not  been  for  the  choir ;  I  am  not  unmindful  of  that  fa.ct,  but 
you  are  here  in  response  to  the. call  of  duty),  but  also  groups  of  young- 
people  throughout  this  audience,  by  dozens  and  by  scores.  At  first 
thought  that  does  not  seem  very  much,  but  to  me  it  is  most  significant. 
With  the  Tabernacle  and  the  Assembly  Hall  crowded  to  overflowing 
it  is  an  easy  matter  for  young  people  to  have  an  excuse  to  walk  around 
the  grounds  and  to  take  a  stroll  through  the  streets.  There  is  but 
one  conclusion — that  there  is  in  the  hearts  of  these  young  people  a 
desire  to  do  what  is  right,  and  I  find  that  is  pretty  generally  manifest 
throughout  this  Church.  I  rejoice  in  it ;  I  rejoice  in  it.  I  will  tell 
you  that  I  never  feel  more  inspired,  more  encouraged,  than  when  I 
arise  before  an  audience  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  find  sprinkled  in 
that  audience  the  clear  eyes  and  the  rosy  cheeks  of  youth;  no  bleary 
eyes,  no  sallow  complexions,  no  defiled  teeth;  souls  that  are  just  as 
clean  and  pure  as  when  the  spirit  came  from  God.  I  am  not  unmind- 
ful of  the  fact  that  there  are  those  who  have  soiled  themselves,  but, 
generally  speaking,  I  have  faith  in  the  youth  of  Israel,  and  I  love  to 
see  the  least  manifestation  among  them  of  the  desire  to  maintain  the 
standards  of  their  parents  and  to  uphold  the  standards  of  righteous- 
ness. 

THE  BEST  LEGACY  TO  VOUTH. 

Oh,  I  think  nothing  in  this  world  can  give  such  consol- 
ation, such  peace,  to  fathers  and  mothers,  as  to  realize  the  fact  that 
their  boys  and  girls  have  faith  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  may 
never  be  able,  I  think  I  can  say  I  shall  never  be  able,  to  leave  to  my 
children,  wealth.  Many  of  you  may  be  unable  to  offer  to  your  young 
sons,  your  young  daughters,  as  they  leave  their  household  and  strike 
out  for  themselves,  even  a  dollar  to  help  them  on  their  way ;  but  I 
would  rather  live  in  poverty  all  the  days  of  my  life,  I  would  rather 
be  unable  to  give  one  copper  cent  to  my  boys  and  girls  when  they 
start  out  in  life,  but  be  able,  through  sacrifice,  diligent  attention, 
watchful  care,  to  implant  in  their  hearts  a  belief,  a  faith,  in  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  than  to  be  able  to  give  them  all  the  wealth  and  honor 
and  distinction  which  the  powers  of  man  may  bestow.  I  know  that  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  most  sacred,  the  most 
precious,  gift  in  our  lives ;  I  know  it.  And,  boys  and  girls,  you  can- 
not get  that  by  following  the  paths  of  the  world ;  you  cannot  get  it. 
You  cannot  get  pleasure,  even!    Oh,  you  may  get  pleasure;  I  will 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


take  that  word  back;  I  have  used  it  rather  carelessly.  You  can  get 
momentary  pleasure  by  following  the  paths  and  the  enticements  of 
the  world: 

But  pleasures  are  like  poppies  spread: 
You  seize  the  fiow'r,  its  bloom  is  shed; 
Or  like  the  snow  falls  in  the  river, 
A  moment  white — then  melts  forever; 
Or  like  the  borealis  rays, 
That  flit  ere  you  can  point  their  place; 
Or  like  the  rainbow's  lovely  form 
Evanishing  amid  the  storm." 

A  better  definition  of  pleasure  than  this  from  Burns  you  cannot 
find  in  all  literature.  You  may  get  that  transitory  pleasure,  yes,  but  you 
cannot  find  joy,  you  cannot  find  happiness.  Happiness  is  found  only 
along  that  well  beaten  track,  narrow  as  it  is,  though  straight, which  leads 
to  life  eternal.  That  is  my  testimony  to  you.  Sometimes  there  are 
obstacles,  there  is  persecution,  there  is  self-denial ;  there  will  be  tears, 
because  you  are  coming  constantly  in  contact  with  these  enticements, 
with  these  worldly  ideals,  and  you  have  to  overcome  them,  and  for 
the  moment  there  will  seem  to  be  sacrifice,  but  it  is  only  temporary. 
The  Lord  never  forsakes  those  who  seek  him.  I  add  my  testimony 
to  that  which  has  been  given.  Never.  It  may  not  come  just  the  way 
you  think,  but  it  will  come.  The  Lord  will  certainly  fulfil  his  promise 
to  you. 

A  PERSONAL  TESTIMONY  ON  PRAYER. 

Illustrative  of  this,  I  am  constrained  to  add  my  personal  testi- 
mony. I  seldom  speak  of  manifestations  that  have  come  to  me.  I 
do  not  know  whether  it  is  the  Scotch  reticence  or  what,  but  I  do  not 
like  to  speak  of  some  things  which  are  most  sacred  to  me.  I  am  glad 
to  say  that  I  have  had  many,  which  I  treasure  -as  most  sacred ;  but 
along  this  line,  mentioned  by  Brother  Ivins,  of  faith  and  prayer,  and 
subject  of  prayer  and  the  assurance  of  answer  to  prayer,  I  am  going 
to  accede  to  the  promptings  and  give  you  a  personal  testimony.  I 
listened  as  a  boy  to  just  such  admonition  and  testimony  as  we  have 
heard  from  our  brethren  this  afternoon  regarding  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I 
heard  the  admonition  that  we,  too,  might  get  that  testimony  if  we 
would  pray,  but  somehow  I  got  an  idea  in  youth  that  we  could  not 
get  a  testimony  unless  we  had  some  manifestation.  I  read  of  the 
first  vision  of  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  I  knew  that  he  knew 
what  he  had  received  was  of  God ;  I  heard  of  elders  who  had  heard 
voices ;  I  heard  my  father's  testimony  of  a  voice  that  had'  come  to 
him,  and  somehow  I  received  the  impression  that  that  was  the  source 
of  all  testimony.  I  realized  in  youth  that  the  most  precious  thing 
that  a  man  could  obtain  in  this  life  was  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work.    I  hungered  for  it;  I  felt  that  if  I  could  get  that,  all  else 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  MCKAY. 


181 


would  indeed  seem  insignificant.  And  so  1  did  not  neglect  my  prayers. 
I  never  felt  that  my  prayer  at  night  would  bring  that  testimony ;  that 
was  more  of  a  prayer  for  protection,  as  I  look  back  upon  it  now,  to 
keep  the  burglars  and  other  intruders  away — really  it  was  more  of  a 
selfish  prayer — but  I  always  felt  that  the  secret  prayer,  whether  in 
the  room  or  out  in  the  grove  or  on  the  hills,  would  be  the  place  where 
that  testimony  would  come.  So,  accordingly,  I  have  knelt  more  than 
once  by  the  service-berry  bush,  as  my  saddle-horse  stood  by  the  side. 
I  remember  riding  over  the  hills  one  afternoon,  thinking  of  these 
things,  and  concluded  there  in  the  silence  of  the  hills  was  the  best 
place  to  get  that  testimony.  I  stopped  my  horse,  threw  the  reins 
over  his  head,  and  withdrew  just  a  few  steps  and  knelt  by  the  side 
of  a  tree.  The  air  was  clear  and  pure,  the  sunshine  delightful ;  the 
verdure  of  the  wild  trees  and  grass  and  the  flowers  scented  the  air; 
as  I  recall  the  incident  all  the  surroundings  come  to  me  anew.  I 
knelt  down  and  with  all  the  fervor  of  my  heart  poured  out  my  soul 
to  God,  and  asked  him  for  a  testimony  of  this  gospel.  I  had  in  mind 
that  there  would  be  some  manifestation,  that  I  should  receive  some 
transformation  that  would  leave  me  absolutely  without  doubt.  I  got 
up,  mounted  my  horse,  and  as  ,he  started  over  the  trail  I  remember 
rather  introspectively  searching  myself,  and  involuntarily  shaking  my 
head,  said  to  myself,  "No,  sir,  there  is  no  change ;  I  am  just  the  same 
boy  I  was  before  I  knelt  down."  The  anticipated  manifestation  had 
not  come.  Nor  was  that  the  only  occasion.  However,  it  did  come, 
but  not  in  the  way  I  had  anticipated.  Even  the  manifestation  of 
Gcd's  power  and  the  presence  of  his  angels  came,  but  when  it  did 
come  it  was  simply  a  confirmation  ;  it  was  not  the  testimony. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  GOD'S  WILL  INCREASES  ANSWER  TO  PRAYER. 

I  remember  on  one  occasion  when  I  was  seven  thousand  miles 
from  here,  when  President  James  McMurrin  was  attending  a  con- 
fp-ence  in  Scotland,  that  in  a  priesthood  meeting  the  power  of  God 
was  so  manifest  that  one  man  present  in  that  little  room  jumped  to 
his  feet  and  said,  "Brethren,  there  are  angels  in  this  room,"  and 
strong  men  began  to  weep,  not  for  fear,  not  for  sorrow,  but  out  of  the 
fulness  of  their  souls,  which  left  them  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of 
that  statement.  The  man's  declaration  did  not  impress  me  very  much ; 
but  the  Spirit  present  did  impress  me  ;  but  when  President  McMurrin,  a 
brother  to  Joseph,  arose  and  said,  "Yes,  there  are  angels  in  this  room, 
and  one  of  them  is  the  guardian  angel  of  that  young  man  sitting 
there" — and  he  pointed  to  a  young  Elder  whom  I  knew  and  who  was 
in  our  conference — he  was  weeping  as  though  his  soul  would  overflow, 
"and,"  continued  President  McMurrin,  "the  other  is  the  guardian  angel 
of  that  young  man  there,"  and  pointed  to  a  boy  with  whom  I  had 
been  associated  and  with  whom  I  have  been  since.  I  knew  by  inspira- 
tion that  what  President  McMurrin  said  was  true.  Why  there  was 
not  one  in  the  room  who  did  not  know  it.    And  then,  when  he  turned 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  me  and  in  prophetic  word  pronounced  my  future,  I  knew  that  the 
answer  to  my  boyish  prayer  had  come.  But  the  testimony  that  this 
work  is  divine  had  come,  not  through  manifestation,  great  and  glorious 
as  it  was,  but  through  obedience  to  God's  will,  in  harmony  with 
Christ's  promise,  "If  ye  will  do  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven,  ye  shall  know  whether  the  doctrine  is  of  God  or  whether  1 
speak  of  myself."  Test  it  from  any  source  you  wish,  and  you  will 
find,  my  dear  fellow-workers,  that  there  is  not  one  phase  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  which  will  not  stand  that  test;  and  as  you,  in  your 
weakness,  as  you  in  your  youth,  undertake  to  embrace  these  principles 
of  life  everlasting,  you  will  find  it  instilling  upon  your  soul  a  benedic- 
tion of  the  Holy  Spirit  which  will  give  you  a  testimony  beyond  any 
possibility  of  a  doubt  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  indeed  our  Father, 
and  that  this  is  his  work  established  through  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
That  is  my  testimony  to  you.  I  know  it.  .  The  most  precious  thing 
in  life.  You  can  test  it.  I  would  rather  have  my  sons  and  daughters 
feel  that  than  to  obtain  any  earthly  emoluments,  because  I  know  then 
that  they  will  be  good  citizens,  I  know  they  will  be  good'  fathers  and 
good  mothers,  I  know  they  will  be  honest  and  true  to  eyervbody,  and  to 
God ;  why,  I  know  that  everything  which  a  man  ought  to  be  and 
which  a  woman  ought  to  be,  they  will  become,  and  they  will  do  it 
through  obedience  to  these  divine  principles. 

THE  GREATEST  BLESSING  OF  ALL. 

Boys  and  girls,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  us  and  guide 
us  to  be  true,  true  to  him  and  his  work.  That  work  which  is  com- 
monly called  "Mormonism"  is  in  very  deed  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
May  he  give  us  strength  to  live  it,  not  only  to  preach  it,  not  only  to 
bear  testimony  to  it  by  voice,  but  in  very  deed  to  live  it  and  bear  tes- 
timony to  the  world  thereby  that  we  do  know  whereof  we  speak.  And 
that  reminds  me  of  a  little  line  which  I  think  is  appropriate  here, 
which  will  perhaps  crystallize  this  thought  more  effectively  than  my 
words.    I  chanced  to  pick  it  up  recently.    The  author  says : 

So,  he  died  for  his  faith!    That  is  fine — 

More  than  most  of  us  do; 
But,  stay,  can  you  add  to  that  line 

That  he  lived  for  it,  too? 

In  his  death  he  bore  witness  at  last 

As  a  martyr  of  truth. 
Did  his  life  do  the  same  in  the  past 

From  the  days  of  his  youth? 

•  . 

It  is  easy  to  die.   Men  have  died 

For  a  wish  or  a  whim — 
From  bravado  or  passion  or  pride — 

Was  it  harder  for  him? 

But  to  live — every  day  to  live  out 

All  the  truth  that  he  dreamt, 
While  his  friends  met  his  conduct  with  doubt 

And  the  world  with  contempt. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


183 


Was  it  thus  that  he  plodded  ahead, . 

Never  turning  aside? 
Then  we'll  talk  of  the  life  that  he  led, 
Never  mind  how  he  died. — Ernest  Crosby. 

That  life,  with  prayer  and  purity,  will  give  you  the  greatest 
blessing  in  all  this  world,  a  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which 
I  pray  we  may  all  have,  and  go  out  from  this  glorious  conference 
to  our  various  wards  and  stakes,  and  disseminate  and  radiate  from  our 
very  being  the  truths  and  expressions  of  this  conference,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented  by  Elder 
David  O.  McKay  and  unanimously  sustained,  as  in  the  Tabernacle. 

The  L.  D.  S.  High  School  Choir,  sang:  "One  Sweetly  Solemn 
Thought." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  L.  Henrie,  President 
of  the  Panguitch  stake  of  Zion. 


OUT-DOORS  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  open-air  meeting  was  held  at  the  Bureau  of  Information 
building,  Sunday  afternoon,  2  o'clock,  October  5. 

Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presided. 
The  congregation  sang: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 
On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call, 

Our  shadow  by  day, 
And  our  pillar  by  night, 
Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all. 

We  know  He  is  coming 

To  gather  His  sheep, 
And  lead  them  to  Zion  in  love; 

For  why  in  the  valley 
Of  death  should  they  weep, 
Or  in  the  lone  wilderness  rove? 

How  long  we  have  wandered 

As  strangers  in  sin, 
And  cried  in  the  desert  for  Thee! 

Our  foes  have  rejoiced 

When  our  sorrows  they've  seen, 
But  Israel  will  shortly  be  free. 

As  children  of  Zion, 
Good  tidings  for  us, 
The  tokens  already  appear; 

Fear  not,  and  be  just, 
For  the  kingdom  is  ours; 
The  hour  of  redemption  is  near. 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lawrence  W.  Richards,  secretary  of 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 

The  congregation  sang:  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission) 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  that  I  may  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  in  attempting  to  address  you  upon  this  occasion. 
I  am  very  happy  to  be  here  and  to  have  the  opportunity  of  bearing 
testimony  to  the  things  which  I  know  to  be  the  truth. 

The  message  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to 
the  children  of  men  is  one  of  good  will.  The  Church  extends  a.  friendly 
feeling  toward  men,  and  desires  to  encourage  men  and  women  to  look 
unto  the  Lord  in  a  way  that  will  bring  unto  them  salvation,  for,  as.  was 
said  in  our  service  yesterday  by  Elder  David  O.  McKay,  there  is 
no  name  under  heaven  whereby  men  may  obtain  salvation  except  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  It  matters  not  what  denominations 
may  preach  or  what  men  may  say  concerning  the  true  order  of  wor- 
ship, there  can  only  be  one  way  by  which  men  may  be  saved  and  that 
is  through  a  strict  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  taught  by 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  and  which  have  been  revealed  again  anew  in  the 
dispensation  of  time  in  which  we  live. 

We  know  that  the  Lord's  way  of  communicating  with  men  upon 
the  earth,  according  to  history  and  according  to  scripture,  has  always 
been  by  revelation,  either  through  personal  visitation  or  through  reve- 
lation by  angels,  or  by  his  voice ;  by  these  means  he  has  communi- 
cated with  men  at  various  times  since  the  beginning  of  the  world, 
whenever  he  has  had  a  message  to  bear  unto  his  children.  And  I 
bear  testimony  unto  you  that  in  the  dispensation  of  time  in  which  we 
live  he  has  spoken  again  and  revealed  the  gospel  of  Christ  with  all 
its  gifts  and  blessings,  that  the  children  of  men  who  inhabit  this  land 
and  this  earth  in  these  the  last  years  of  the  earth's  history  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  redeeming  themselves  through  repentance  if  they  desire, 
and  I  take  it  for  granted  that  the  majority  of  men  and  women  desire 
to  be  saved.  I  take  it  for  granted  that  they  desire  to  obtain  the  best  they 
can  in  life,  and  I  feel  that  when  the  true  order  of  worship  is  made 
known  unto  men  they  will  come  unto  him  and  receive  the  blessings 
which  he  has  promised  unto  them.  ■  I  believe  that  the  Lord,  who 
created  this  earth  and  who  arranged  it  so  beautifully,  of  which  you  and 
I  are  witnesses  in  a  measure,  provides  a  still  greater  measure  for  his 
children  who  are  the  highest  of  his  creation,  and  that  he  does  not 
leave  us  upon  this  earth  to  go  through  the  world  alone  and  to  take 
chances  of  salvation,  when  in  the  hearts  of  his  children  there  is  a  desire 
to  serve  him  and  to  keep  his  commandments. 

I  have  never  seen  occasion  to  fall  out  with  the  Protestant  churches 


ELDER  S'AMUEL-O.'BENNION. 


185 


of  this  country,  or  the  Catholic  church,  or  with  any  of  the  churches, 
but,  after  going  into  the  question  thoroughly,  I  have  become  convinced 
beyond  the  question  of  a  doubt — and  to  me  it  is  a  real  possession — that 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  authority  of 
God  on  this  earth.  There  can  not  be  found  in  any  other  church  the 
authority  to  preach  the  gospel  and  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  it, 
to  take  men  and  women  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  to  confer  upon 
them  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  a  witness  unto 
all  men  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  this  is  his  work. 

Paul  said  that  no  man  speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus 
accursed, and  that  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord  but  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  if  that  was  true  in  the  days  of  Paul  (and  the  world,  prac- 
tically, so  far  as  Christianity  is  concerned,  swears  by  him),  then  it  is 
true  today.  If  it  was  necessary  then  for  men,  in  order  to  obtain  that 
truth,  to  follow  the  instructions  he  gave,  it  is  necessary  now.  God  or- 
dained one  plan  in  the  beginning.  He  has  said  that  he  is  the  same 
yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  and  if  that  be  true  so  are  his  principles. 
There  can  be  no  variation..  The  same  doctrine  must  be  taught  today 
that  was  taught  in  the  days  of  Adam,  that  was  taught  in  the  days  of 
Enoch;  that  was  taught  in  the  days  of  Abraham,  aijd  so  down.  If  he 
-shows  no  turning  nor  shadow  of  change,  and  I  am  sure  that  he  does 
not,  then  his  doctrine  applies  to  the  children  of -men  in  this  dispensation 
as  it  did  in  the  days  of  the  Christ,  and'  even  back  unto  the  days  of 
Adam.  And  this  is  that  through  repentance  and  faith  in  God,  men  may 
turn  unto  him  and  be  redeemed  of  him  and  then  go  on  to  perfection, 
as  Paul  has  stated,  "Not  laying  again  the  foundation  of  repentance 
from  dead  works  and  of  faith  towards  God,  but  go  on  to  perfection," 
receiving  the  higher  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  which 
lead  men  into  the  eternal  worlds  from  whence  they  came. 

These  principles  give  men  an  understanding  in  a  measure  of  the 
positions  that  they  shall  occupy  in  that  future  which  will  be  according 
to  their  works  upon  the  earth.  I  am  convinced,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters and  friends,  that  the  condition  of  men  and  women  in  this  world  is 
according  to  the  blessings  pronounced  upon  them  and  according  to  their 
works  in  that  world  from  which  we  came.  We  may  all  have,  it  is  true, 
the  same  rights  and  the  same  blessings  and  promises,  but  they  are  all 
-predicated  upon  obedience,  and  in  the  future  that  awaits  us,  your  life 
and  mine,  and  that  of  every  other  son  and  daughter  of  God,  will  depend 
largely  upon  our  life  here  in  the  flesh. 

It  was  the  order  of  God  our  Father  in  the  beginning,  that  there 
should  be  continually  among  us  a  living  prophet,  and  there  can  be  no 
scripture  brought  forth  to  prove  that  there  has  ever  been  made  a 
change.  God  has  always  had  a  prophet  to  reveal  unto  his  children  his 
mind  and  his  will  from  the  days  of  Adam  until  now,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  time  when  the  people  apostatized  and  the  gospel  was  taken 
from  the  earth.  When  I  looked  upon  President  Heber  J.  Grant  this 
morning*,  a  man  that  we  have  known  all  our  lives  (I  remember  him 


186 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


from  the  days  of  my  childhood)  ;  when  I  heard  him  bearing  testimony 
unto  Israel  gathered  together,  it  came  to  me  again  that  there  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  There  came  into  this  world  with  Heber  J.  Grant 
this  blessing  which  he  received  as  an  endowment,  .according  to  his 
faith  in  the  world  from  which  he  came,  that  he  was  to  be  born  into 
the  world  a  leader  and  a  prophet  of  God,  I  said  to  myself:  .Verily  is 
it  true  that  leaders  are  not  made,  but  they  are  born.  They  come 
into  the  world  born  leaders,  born  prophets,  men  who  have  been 
trained  in  the  royal  Priesthood  of  our  Father,  and  their  works  do 
follow  them  when  they  are  given  the  opportunity  in  the  flesh,  and 
we  see  him,  we  hear  him,  and  we  can  bear  testimony  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men  that  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  in  the  tops  of  the 
everlasting  hills  there  stands  and  lives  a  prophet  of  God,  who  is  in 
direct  communication  with  his  Father  and  with  our  Father,  for  your 
good  and  for  mine.  Happy  are  we  if  we  pay  attention  unto  the 
things  which  we  hear  from  time  to  time,  especially  those  things  which 
pertain  unto  us,  individually,  in  our  own  lives. 

Thanks  be  to  our  Father  that  we  have  come  upon  the  earth  in 
a  day  and  in  a  time  when  the  gospel  is  here,  when  the  prophets  or 
God  are  here  to  govern  and  control,  and,  mark  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends,  whether  you  be  of  the  Church  or  not,  I  want 
to  say  to  you  if  you  question  the  things  that  I  say  concerning  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  things  I  have  spoken,  I  refer  you  to 
the  law  and  to  the  testimony.  If  you  think  men  and  women  come 
into  this  world  by  chance  and  that  they  are  given  opportunities  here 
without  appointment  you  are  very  much  mistaken,  for  it  is  not  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God  and  is  not  found  in  the  scripture  in  which 
we  all  believe  more  of  less.  Men  come  into  this  world  according  to 
their  works,  according  to  their  faith,  and  according  to  their  devo- 
tion, and  we,  when  we  leave  this  world,  will  go  on  and  find  there  a 
future  arranged  for  us  according  to  our  life  in  the  flesh.  We  heard 
President  Grant  say  this  morning,  and  it  is  a  principle  in  which  we 
all  believe,  that  he  saw  his  father  and  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
that  he  saw  them  consulting  together  concerning  his  appointment. 
Is  not  that  the  scripture?  We  read  in  the  scripture  concerning  the  his- 
tory of  Job  that  the  sons  of  God  were  gathered  together  and  Satan 
was  there  also.  The  president  this  morning  brought  to  our  atten- 
tion that  these  things  do  occur  in  this  dispensation,  and  in  our  day; 
and  that  those  who  have  preceded  him,  those  who  have  gone  from 
among  our  midst  as  bishops  and  as  presiding  officers,  do  live  and 
that  they  enjoy  their  faculties,  that  they  are  able  to  hear,  and  to 
speak,  to  act,  and  to  work  according  to  the  pattern  of  the  Almighty 
God,  that  they  do  not  lose  their  individual  entity  when  they  leave 
this  earth,  and  that  their  life  there  is  a  continuation  of  their  life  here, 
and  their  powers  and  their  usefulness  are  based  upon  their  activity 
here  in  the  flesh.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH. 


187 


ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

"God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 

His  wonders  to  perform. 
He  plants  his  footsteps  in  the  sea, 
And  rides  upon  the  storm." 

These  words  were  given  to  us  by  an  inspired  man  many  years  ago, 
and  yet,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  they  are  just  as  vital  and  just  as  much 
in  force,  and  just  as  true  now  as  they  were  at  .the  time  they  were  given. 
It  is  a  fact,  an  absolutely  positive  thing  that  you  can  not  get  away 
from,  that  God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way,  his  wonders  to  perform. 
And  in  this  mysteriousness  we  do  not  need  to  look  at  things  that  we 
can  not  understand.  We  do  not  need  to  look  for  the  supernatural.  We 
do  not  need  to  expect  some  most  marvelous  manifestation  of  the 
supernatural  in  our  behalf,  in  order  for  us  to  understand,  but  the 
mysterious  way  that  God  moves  in,  his  wonders  to  perform,  is  the  way 
of.  nature,  is  the  way  of  order,  is  the  way  of  law,  is  according  to  the 
plan  which  has  existed  from  time  out  of  mind,  and  unless  we  are  in 
tune  with  that,  plan,  with  that  scheme,  we  cannot  understand  things, 
and  we  can  not  know  just  what  is  happening. 

It  is  a  strange  thing  that  many  of  our  members  are  always  looking 
for  something  absolutely  extraordinary.  It  is  another  thing  that 
many  of  our  members  are  here  in  the  Church  today  because  God  has 
granted  unto  them  some  remarkable  manifestation  of  his  power,  but  the 
great  thing  is  that  the  vast  majority  of  the  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  in  the  Church  today  because  they 
have  a  living,  vital  and'  abiding  faith  in  the  power  of  Almighty  God. 

I  trust  that  those  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  are  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  for  this  reason,  that  you  have  founded  your  faith, 
absolutely  and  completely  on  that  rock  that  Christ  named  as  the 
foundation  of  his  Church.  I  trust  that  you  are  ordering  your  lives,  that 
things  are  shaping  with  you,  that  you  are  in  tune  with  our  Father 
and  his  wonderful  plan.  Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  that  perfect 
knowledge  is  what  the  devil  himself  possesses?  Has  it  ever  occurred 
to  you  that  many  men,  who  fight  against  God  and  his  kingdom,  know 
beyond  the  question  of  a  doubt  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  Has  it  ever 
occurred  to  you  that, in  this  fighting,  the  one  thing  that  is  lacking  in 
their  make-up  is  that  very  vital  thing,  faith  in  Almighty  God  ?  I  beg  of 
you  to  consider  this  question,  weigh  it  very,  very  seriously.  I  have  in 
mind  a  man  right  now,  whom  I  met  but  a  few  weeks  ago,  who  claims 
to  have  had  revealed  to  him  the  Son  of  God  himself,  and  yet  that  man 
lacks  something  in  his  make-up  to  hold  him  fast  to  the  Church  and  to 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Something  has  come  between  him  and  the 
testimony  that  he  had,  and  instead  of  being  a  helper,  a  supporter  of ,  and 
a  fighter  for,  the  doctrines  of  Christ,  and  the  missionaries  working  in 


188 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


his  field  he  is  a  hindrance.  He  is  in  opposition,  out  of  harmony,  and  I 
said  to  that  man: 

"Brother,  do  you  know  that  the  devil  himself  knows  absolutely 
that  God  lives?  Do  you  know  that  Oliver  Cowdery,  who  had  most 
wonderful  manifestations,  so  much  so  that  he  was  called  of  God 
directly  by  prophecy  and  by  revelation,  and  had  given  unto  him  most 
wonderful  visions;  do  you  know  that  that  man  lost  the  Spirit  of  God 
through  some  cause?  And  I  tell  you,  my  brother,  right  here  and 
right  now — and  I  do  it  in  love  and  in  kindness,  and  I  do  it  with  the 
desire  to  see  you  hold  fast  to  that  which  you  know  is  true — that  unless 
you  order  your  life,  and  unless  you  come  in  and  put  your  shoulder  to 
the  wheel,  right  now,  and  support  the  men  who  are  here  working  with 
you  in  this  branch,  the  fact  that  you  have  seen  Christ  will  not  matter. 
The  knowledge,  the  faith,  will  be  taken  from  you,  and  you  will  be  left, 
according  to  the  promise  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  to  kick 
against  the  pricks." 

Now,  we,  here,  are  members,  I  hope,  every  one  of  us,  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  all  claiming 
testimonies  of  the  gospel.  We  are  all  professing  that  we  know  it  is 
true,  and  yet  here  we  are  living  in  a  day  and  age  of  reservations,  and 
far  too  many  of  us  are  taking  reservations  as  regards  to  the  principles 
of  the  everlasting  gospel.  I  ask  you,  and  ask  you  to  ask  yourselves, 
Do  you  believe  in  God  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ?  and  you  will  say, 
Yes,  I  guess  I  do.  I  will  ask  you  if  you  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if 
you  believe  that  God  spoke  the  truth  when  he  gave  that  word,  and 
you  will  hesitate.  Now,  if  you  are  reserving  the  rignt  to  accept  or 
reject  the  principles  of  this  gospel,  you  are  on  mighty  dangerous 
ground,  for  when  you  have  one  thing  you  don't  believe  it  is  a  very 
simple  thing  to  make  it  two  and  three  and  four,  and  it  becomes  a 
mighty  serious  thing.  Unless  vou  watch  yourself,  and  unless  you 
turn,  instead  of  having  faith  in  God  you  will  be  an  enemy  of  him  and 
his  kingdom.  That  is  just  exactly  where  we  are.  The  fact  that  God 
has  blessed  us,  and  given  us  that  knowledge  doesn't  mean  that  we  can 
keep  it.  Marvelous  promises,  bevond  our  comprehension,  so  deep  and 
so  urtfathomable  in  their  nature  that  we  can  not  comprehend  them,  have 
been  made  to  us,  if  we  will  live  according  to  his  law  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments and  do  the  things  that  he  has  commanded. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  just  a  few  verses  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  I  want  you  to  ponder  over  them,  think  about  them, 
and  study  them,  and  I  bee  of  you  to  make  therrj  a  part  of  your  lives. 
If  you  will  do  it,  out  of  this  study  and  this  application  will  come  the 
iov  that  is  yours.  In  1832  the  Father  gave  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
Sidney  Rigdon,  a  man  who  fell  away,  this  wonderful  promise : 

Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice,  ye  inhabitants 
thereof,  for  the  Lord  is  God.  and  beside  him  there  is  no  Saviour. 

Great  is  his  wisdom,  marvelous  are  his  ways,  and  the  extent  of  his 
doings  none  can  find  out; 

His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there  any  who  can  stay  his  hand; 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH. 


189 


From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the  same,  and  his  years  never  fail. 

For  thus  saith  the  Lord,  I,  the  Lord,  am  merciful  and  gracious  unto 
those  who  fear  me,  and  delight  to  honor  those  who  serve  me  in  righteous- 
ness and  in  truth  unto  the  end; 

Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal  shall  be  their  glory; 

And  to  them  will  I  reveal  all  mysteries,  yea,  all  the  hidden  mysteries, of 
my  kingdom  from  days  of  old;  and  for  ages  to  come  will  I  make  known 
unto  them  the  good  pleasure  of  my  will  concerning  all  things  pertaining 
to  my  kingdom, 

Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity  shall  they  know,  and  things  to 
come  will  I  show  them,  even  the  things  of  many  generations;' 

And  their  wisdom  shall  be  great,  and  their  understanding  reach  to 
heaven:  and  before  them  the  wisdom  of  the.  wise  shall  perish,  and  the 
understanding  of  the  prudent  shall  come  to  nought; 

For  by  my  spirit  will  I  enlighten  them,  and  by  my  power  will  I  make 
known  unto  them  the  secrets  of  my  will;  yea,  even  those  things  which 
eye  has  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  nor  yet  entered  into  the  heart  of  man. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  to  me  the  most  glorious  promise  that  we 
can  expect  here  as  mortals*  on  earth  is  the  promise  that  God  gave  in 
that  revelation.  I  declare  unto  you  in  humility  and  in  candor  that  this 
subject  is  so  vital,  so  big,  so  all-embracing,  that  unless  we  take  hold  of 
it,  study  it,  and  make  it  part  of  our  lives,  we  are  losing  the  opportun- 
ity knocking  at  our  door  today,  as  it  knocks  at  every  door.  How 
common  it  is  for  us  to  kneel  down  and  pray  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for 
blessings  we  do  not  deserve.  How  common  it  is  for  us  to  say,  Why,  I 
have  never  been  blessed,  when  we  do  not  deserve  the  blessings ;  and  yet, 
our  heavenly  Father  has  promised,  not  only  promised,  has  pledged  him- 
self, that  if  we  will  do  our  share  he  will  do  his.  Look  into  your  own 
minds,  your  own  hearts,  your  own  souls,  take  your  own  lives  into  con- 
sideration, are  we  doing  the  things  that  will  bring  us  those  blessings. 

I  can  not  expect  the  blessing  he  has  promised  on  condition  of  keep- 
ing the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  I  don't  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
can  not  expect  the  Lord  to  give  me  the  blessing  that  is  predicated  upon 
the  payment  of  tithes,  if  I  don't  pay  tithes.  I  can't  expect  the  bless- 
ing predicated  upon  being  honest,  virtuous,  clean,  just,  honorable, 
upright  and  faithful,  unless  I  perform  the  acts  that  bring  forth  those 
blessings.  I  declare  to  you,  as  a  servant  of  the  living  God,  that  it  is 
vital.  In  this  day  of  skepticism  we  must  know  for  ourselves  abso- 
lutely whether  the  gospel  be  of  God  or  whether  it  be  of  man ;  and  if  we 
don't  know,  it  is  only  a  matter  of  time  until  we  will  be  outside  and  in 
the  hands  of  the  evil  one. 

My  testimony  is  that  the  gospel  is  true.  My  testimony  is  that  it  is 
worth  while.  This  morning,  when  I  listened  to  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  bear  his  marvelous  testimony,  my  whole  being  was  thrilled,  and 
I  s%id  to  myself:  Can  any  man  hearing  those  words  not  perform  to 
the  utmost  the  work  which  God  has  asked  him  to  do? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  only  hear  these  words ;  take  them 
to  your  hearts,  put  them  into  practice,  take  them  into  your  lives.  Who 
will  be  blessed  by  your  doing  so?  Not  the  other  fellow;  no,  but  you 
yourselves,  will  be  blessed.    God  help  you.  Amen. 


190 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation; 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need  we  roam, 
Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and  each  nation, 

And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption  will  come;' 
When  all  that  was  promised  the  Saints  will  be  given, 
And  none  will  molest  them  from  morn  until  even, 
And  earth  will  appear  as  the  garden  of  Eden; 

And  Jesus  will  say  to  all  Israel,  Come  home. 

We'll  love  one  another,  and  never  dissemble, 
But  cease  to  do  evil,  and  ever  be  one; 

And  when  the  ungodly  are  fearing  and  tremble, 

We'll  watch  for  the  day  when  the  Savior  will  come: 
-When  all  that  was  promised  the  Saints  will  be  given, 

And  none  will  molest  them  from  morn  until  even, 

And  earth  will  appear  as  the  garden  of  Eden, 
And  Jesus  will  say  to  all  Israel,  Come  home. 

In  faith  we'll  rely  on  the  arm  of  Jehovah 

To  guide  through  these  last  days  of  trouble  and  gloom, 
And  after  the  scourges  and  harvest  are  over, 

We'll  rise  with  the  just  when  the  Savior  doth  come. 
Then  all  that  was  promised  the  Saints  will  be  given, 
And  they  will  be  crowned  as  the  angels  of  heaven, 
And  earth  will  appear  as  the  garden  of  Eden, 
And  Christ  and  His  people  will  ever  be  one. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  that  with  much  propriety,  so 
far  as  houses  of  worship  are  concerned  on  this  block,  we  could  sing 
the  good  old  hymn:  "Give  us  room  that  we  may  dwell,"  for  Zion  is 
growing.  There  are  many  people  who  have  preached  a  funeral  ser- 
mon over  "Mormonism,"  and  sung  their  mournful  dirges ;  these  peo- 
ple have  gone,  but  "Mormonism"  survives.  It  lives  because  it  is 
God's  work. 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  by  obeying  counsel  and  living  their  re- 
ligion, can  not  fall  into  the  hands  of  men.  David  said:  "Let  me  fall 
now  into  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  *  *  *  but  let  me  not  fall  into 
the  hand  of  man."  When  a  man  by  neglect  of  duty  or  by  transgression 
wanders  from  the  path  of  the  gospel,  he  falls  into  the  hands  of  men, 
into  a  bondage  cruel  and  bitter.    Let  us  fall  into  the  hands  of  God. 

The  splendid  message  so  splendidly  delivered  by  the  prophet  of 
God,  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  reached  the  hearts  of  the  people.  WHy  ? 
Because  he  spoke  under  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  Book 
of  Mormon  says  that  when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  his  words  go  to  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and  so  a 
minister  of  the  gospel  is  not  as  sounding  brass  or  a  'tinkling  cymbal, 
but  he  is  the  medium,  the  instrument,  through  whom  God  ministers 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 


191 


spiritual  comfort  unto  the  children  of  men.  This  people  are  led  by 
wise  shepherds.  They  are  not  tossed  to  and  fro  by  every  wind  of 
doctrine,  but  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  speaking  the  truth  in  love, 
are  guiding  the  children  of  God  on  to  their  destiny,  which  God  hath 
mapped  out  for  the  faithful. 

A  great  writer  has  said  that  the  awakening  of  the  conscience  is 
the  grandeur  of  the  soul.  If  our  consciences  have  been  awakened, 
which  I  know  that  they  have,  if  we  have  been  renewed  by  the  good 
spirit,  by  the  counsel  we  have  heard,  then  in  the  grandeur  of  our 
souls  we  will  go  to  our  homes  and  diffuse  the  spirit  of  life  and  instruc- 
tion that  we  have  received  at  this  great  gathering.  Repentance  is 
divine  Why?  Because  it  is  a  gift  from  God.  O  God,  awaken  the 
conscience  of  the  world  that  their  souls  which  thou  hast  created  may 
shine  out  in  the  grandeur  of  repentance. 

I  have  felt  during  this  conference  that  the  speakers  have  clarified 
our  vision.  What  is  a  man  without  vision?  What  is  a  man  without 
an  object  in  life?  He  is  like  "a  painted  ship  upon  a  painted  ocean." 
A  life,  to  be  successful,  must  have  directness  of  purpose,  and  one  rea- 
son for  the  strength  of  this  work  and  of  this  people  is  that  God  has 
blessed  us  with  a  mission,  with  a  work.  O,  blessed  be  the  man  with  a 
work  and  the  people  with  a  mission.  When  the  Angel  Moroni  ap- 
peared to  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  he  did  not  say,  "you  may  wear 
soft  clothing,  God  is  going  to  give  you  ease,"  but  he  said :  "God  has  a 
work  for  you  to  do,"  and  in  that  work  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
achieved  greatness  and  the  favor  of  God,  and  that  is  how  we  are 
becoming  a  great  people,  not  by  what  we  receive,  but  by  what  we  give. 
For  it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive.  Now  the  prophet  of 
old  said :  Where  there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish.  I  can  not  be- 
lieve that  he  meant  the  gentiles  exclusively.  I  believe  he  meant  his 
people  as  well  as  the  gentiles.  Have  we  not  a  vision?  What  is  it? 
First,  our  divine  commission  to  preach  the  gospel  unto  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue  and  people.  Second,  the  glorious  second  coming  of 
the  Son  of  God,  before  whom  all  wickedness  shall  flee,  and  before 
whose  power  evil  shall  be  subdued.  Lord  Macaulay  said:  "It  was 
before  Deity  embodied  in  a  human  form — walking  among  men,  par- 
taking of  their  infirmities,  leaning  on  their  bosoms,  weeping  over 
their  graves,  slumbering  in  the  manger  and  bleeding  on  the  cross,  that 
the  pride  of  the  philosophers  and  the  swords  of  thirty  legions  were 
humbled  in  the  dust."  It  is  before  this  power  that  war  is  going  to 
cease  forever  and  God's  will  be  done  on  earth -as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 
We  believe  in  the  glorious  millennial  reign,  in  a  literal  resurrection  of 
the  dead,  in  the  reunion  of  families  in  heaven,  of  the  sanctification 
of  this  earth  to  be  the  abiding  place  forever  of  the  sanctified  of  God. 
This  is  part  of  the  vision.  God  help  us  that  we  may  not  lose  this 
vision,  that  it  may  not  be  blurred  by  neglect  of  duty  or  by  transgres- 
sion. The  Jews  perished  because  they  had  no  vision.  They  had  the 
holy  scriptures  which  set  forth  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God.  They 
had  the  words  of  the  prophets,  but  when  Jesus  came  they  had  no  vision 


,  192 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  perceive  him,  his  glorious  divine  character,  and  they  perished;  they 
perished  under  means  of  grace  until  the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come 
from  the  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  of  the  mission  of  Joseph 
Smith  ?  I  tell  you  that  above  the  dust  and  blood  and  smoke  of  the  hor- 
rible carnage  of  the  world-war  stand  in  the  prophecies  of  Joseph 
Smith.  His  prophecies  are  written  across  the  sky  that  all  may  read. 
A  great  man  has  said  that  a  prophecy  fulfilled  is  a  permanent  miracle,' 
and  therefore  we  can  behold  a  permanent  miracle  every  day  of  our 
lives.  Go  on  historic  Chickamauga,  see  the  monuments  that  the 
southern  people  have  erected  to  commemorate  the  valor  of  the  boys 
who  wore  the  gray.  Go  to  Gettysburg  where  the  northern  people, 
have  builded  monuments  to  symbolize  and  to  perpetuate  in  the  mem- 
ory of  their  children  the  bravery  and  valor  of  their  fathers  and  broth- 
ers. Shakes_peare  spoke  the  truth  when  he  said:  "And  this  our  life 
exempt  from  public  haunt,  finds  tongues  in  trees,  books  in  the  run- 
ning brooks,  sermons  in  stones,  and  good  in  everything."  Each  of  the 
monuments  on  the  great  battlefields  of  this  country  preach  a  daily 
sermon,  an  hourly  sermon,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  God  said  to  Joseph  Smith:  "Behold 
the  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity  and  it  must  needs  be  that  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  are  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  both  the  Gentiles  and 
also  the  House  of  Israel."  Was  Joseph  Smith  a  prophet  of  God? 
Did  he  speak  the  truth  ?  Men  have  been  preaching  the  results  of  day- 
dreams :  they  have  been  building  "castles  in  the  air."  They  have  as- 
serted that,  with  the  advance  of  medical  skill  and  the  cultivation  of 
the  arts  and  the  sciences,  the  world  was  growing  better  every 
day,  and  yet  God  said  that  it  was  ripening  in  iniquity.  It  took  the. 
draft  boards,  the  examining  boards,  to  discover  to  a  great  many  peo- 
ple that  they  had  been  living  in  a  "fool's  paradise."  Only  a  few 
weeks  ago  one  of  the  foremost  statesmen  of  an  empire  on  whose  domin- 
ions the  sun  never  sets  declared  that  his  country  could  accomplish 
any  task  assigned  her  if  it  were  not  for  consumption  and  venereal 
diseases.  Did  God  speak  the  truth?  Down  at  Savannah,  Georgia', 
only  a  short  time  ago,  a  Methodist  bishop  declared  that  the  world 
was  more  wicked  and  corrupt  than  it  was  in  the  days  of  ancient  Rome 
and  ancient  Greece.  I  ask  again,  Was  Joseph  Smith  a  prophet  of  God  ? 
Did  he  speak  the  truth?  Yes,  statesmen,  theologians  declare  that  he 
did.  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  our  mission,  to  proclaim 
repentance  unto  the  world.  God  is  going  to  create  a  new  heaven,  a 
new  earth,  for  he  says:  "Behold,  I  make  all  things  new."  I  tell  you 
truthfuly  and  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord  that  he  is  working  today  per- 
haps a  greater  miracle  than  that  of  creating  a  new  heaven  or  a  new 
earth.  We  read  that  man  is  the  noblest  work  of  God  and  this  is  true. 
The  young  men,  your  sons,  striplings,  so  to  speak,  are  being  sent  out 
into  the  world,  without  much  previous  preparation  for  the  ministry, 
oh,  God  is  recreating  those  young  men.  He  is  making  them  powerful 
in  testimony  and  in  preaching  his  word.    Samuel  told  Saul,  that  if 


ELDER  STEPHENS  L.  RICHARDS. 


193 


he,  Saul,  did  his  duty  God  would  give  him  another  heart,  and  turn  him 
into  another  man.  God  is  recreating  these  young  men,  he  is  recreating 
you,  by  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  by  the  principle  of  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  how  good  it  is  to  be  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  that  when  a  man  is  engaged 
in  the  service  of  his  fellow  men,  he  is  only  engaged  in  the  service  of 
his  God.  Service  is  the  crown  of  every  good  man's  life.  The  life  that 
is  lived  for  itself  is  barren;  it  is  no  good.  The  man  who  lives  for 
himself,  shrivels  up,  he  dies,  for  only  by  working  for  others  can  we 
hope  to  survive  in  everything  that  is  good.  The  crown  of  President 
Grant's  life  is  splendid  service  to  God  and  his  fellow  men.  The 
crown  of  the  lives  of  the  apostles  and  all  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
from  Joseph  Smith  down  to  the  present  time,  is  the  crown  of  service*. 
It  glows  with  the  light  of  heaven's  approbation.  It  is  the  crown  of 
the  life  of  the  Son  of  God.  He  died,  he  served  us  that  we  might  live, 
for  he  descended  below  all  things  to  bring  our  redemption  from  sin 
and  from  the  grave. 

I  bear  testimony  unto  you  that  Jesus  Christ  is  in  truth  the  very 
Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Christ.  I  bear  testimony 
to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet,  divinely  chosen,  a  splendid 
servant  of  the  Lord,  a  man  whom  God  loved,  a  being  whom  all  the 
earth  shall  yet  honor  and  revere. 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah! 

Jesus  annointed  "that  Prophet  and  Seer" — 
Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 

Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations  revere. 

Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  sight  that  I  now  behold  is,  I  think, 
one  of  the  most  inspiring  and  impressive  that  I  have  beheld  at  any 
time.  The  large  congregation  gathered  here,  in  addition  to  the  con- 
gregations gathered  in  the  Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  Barratt 
Hall  is  really  more  significant  of  the  growth  of  Zion  than  it  is  to  see 
the  great  audience  that  gathers  in  the  tabernacle. 

"what  hath  god  wrought?" 

Zion  is  growing.  I  thought,  as  I  behold  the  great  multitudes  fill-' 
ing  this  temple  block,  of  the  marvelous  work  that  has  been  accom- 
plished since  President  Brigham  Young  and  that  party  of  pioneers 
gathered  at  the  mouth  of  Emigration  Canyon  and  looked'  over  this 


194 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


barren  sage  brush  waste  without  a  house,  without  a  strip  of  green, 
except  along  the  creek  banks,  without  any  indications  of  life,  with- 
out the  possibilities,  seemingly,  for  development  and  the  nurture  and 
culture  and  advancement  of  a  people.  I  thought,  "What  hath  God 
wrought  1"  Here  today  are  the  representatives  of  a  half  million  peo- 
ple, blessed  of  God,  wealthy — wealthy  in  the  goods  of  this  world,  more 
wealthy  in  the  riches  of  heaven,  possessed  of  the  everlasting  truth, 
convinced  that  they  do  have  a  great  aim  and  purpose  in  life,  striving 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  with  whom  is  lodged  the  great 
kernel  of  truth  which  shall  yet  fill  the  whole  earth.  As  I  think  and 
contemplate  upon  the  advancement  of  the  people  of  God,  my  testimony, 
my  conviction  of  the  truth,  is  strengthened  and  confirmed.  No  work  that 
is  not  inspired  by  the  divine  will  could  ever  have  grown,  could  ever 
have  made  the  marvelous  accomplishments  that  this  work  has  made. 

THE  GOSPEL  THE  WHOLE  TRUTH. 

How  has  it  been  done  ?  It  has  been  done  by  the  overruling  hand 
of  God  himself.  It  is  not  man's  work.  Never  within  the  Church  has 
there  been  a  man  with  such  intellect,  with  such  power,  with  such  fore- 
sight as  to  plan  the  great  work  that  has  transpired  here  in  this  three- 
quarters  of  a  century.  Men  and  women,  you  are  the  possessors  of  the 
greatest  heritage  that  God  our  Father  can  give  to  his  people.  You, 
above  all  people  in  this  world,  and  I  say  it,  not  boastingly,  not  seeking 
to  aggrandize  ourselves,  but  to  speak  the  truth,  you  are  the  only  people 
on  this  earth  who  have  God's  whole  truth.  It  has  been  my  good  fortune 
in  the  last  several  years  to  pass  around  in  various  cities  of  the  country, 
to  mingle  in  the  assemblies  of  thoughtful  men  and  women,  seeking 
in  one  manner  and  another  to  advance  the  interests  of  humanity.  Only 
a  short  time  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  being  in  the  National  Bar  Asso- 
ciation, gathered  at  Boston.  There  I  heard  men  from  all  over  this 
country,  from  Canada  on  the  north,  from  England  across  the  water, 
from  our  insular  possessions,  and  from  other  countries  as  well,  discuss 
the  great  problems  that  confront  the  world.  I  heard  them  advance 
their  theories  for  reconstruction.  I  heard  them  propose  their  remedies, 
but  after  I  had  heard  them  all,  I  said  to  myself :  in  humility,  in  recog- 
nition of  God's  goodness,  Thank  God  we  have  the  whole  truth.  Others 
have  fragments  of  it.  God  has  selected  men  and  women  all  "over  the 
world  to  help  do  his  work.  The  Spirit  of  God  is  not  confined  to  us 
alone,  but  here  we  have  the  whole  truth.  I  have  never  heard  anything 
advanced  that  sounds  like  the  truth,  that  is  good,  oraiseworthy,  desir- 
able for  men,  that  is  not  embraced  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

MANHOOD,  WOMANHOOD,  TRUE  CHARACTER  MOST  VALUABLE. 

We  have  had  a  remarkable  experience  during  the  last  four  or 
five  years.    The  earth  and  the  people  of  the  earth  have  been  tested. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


195 


They  have  gone  through  the  great  test  of  war.    Our  own  country  has 
been  in  the  conflict.    We  have  been  called  upon  to  give  the  utmost  of 
our  resources  in  manhood,  in  womanhood,  in  materials,  for  the  advance- 
ment of  our  interest  and  the  interest  of  our  allies.    Above  all  things 
else,  the  thing  that  has  been  found  to  be  of  most  value  is  manhood  and 
womanhood,  true  character,  the  genuine  quality  that  goes  to  make  men 
and  women  serviceable,  useful  and  efficient.    If  our  government,  as 
well  as  the  other  governments  of  the  earth  have  discovered  anything, 
they  have  discovered  that  their  power,  their  great  resources  depend 
upon  the  men  and  women  who  make  up  a  nation.  They  have  discovered 
that  not  numbers  alone  count.   They  have  found  that  it  is  the  quality 
of  citizenship  that  counts  rather  than  the  quantity  of  it.   We  discovered 
very  much  to  our  sorrow  when  the  examinations  were  made,  which 
have  been  referred  to,  that  a  very  large  number,  not  an  inconsiderable 
percentage  of  all  the  young  men  that  were  examined  for  Uncle  Sam's 
service,  were  found  to  be  not  fit,  unclean  in  many  cases.   The  country 
has  discovered  that  that  kind  of  manhood  won't  subserve  the  interests 
of  the  government.    The  country  has  discovered  that  the  only  kind 
of  men  that  will  do  its  work  are  the  men  and  women  who  are  fit  and' 
clean.   In  recognition  of  the  great  principles  for  which  our  people  have 
stood,  since  the  inception  of  the  Church,  I  construe  the  experience  that 
we  have  had  to  be  a  confirmation,  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  and  of  the  inspiration  which  came  to  our  first  leaders  in  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  glorious  doctrines  and  principles  which  have  pre- 
served us  as  a  people,  and  have  contributed  to  our  growth  and  our  ad- 
vancement. 

BOYS,  DEFENDERS  OF  AMERICA,  DEFEND  YOURSELVES  AGAINST  SIN. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  simple,  plain,  understandable  law  of  the 
Church,  has  been  referred  to.  Let  me  say  to  you  men  and  women  '• 
that  in  my  judgment  that  simple  Word  of  Wisdom  will  do  more  for  the 
advancement  of  the  ultimate  destiny  of  a  country  than  any  other  law 
that  I  know  of.  Men  and  women,  boys  and  girls  who  conform  their 
lives  to  that  simple  commandment  of  the  Lord  will  be  the  kind  of  men 
and  women,  the  kind  of  boys  and  girls  that  a  country  will  be  proud  of, 
the  kind  that  will  render  service  in  times  of  need.  Our  boys  have 
gone  forth  to  fight  the  country's  battles,  they  have  responded  in  a  no- 
ble manner.  They  did  their  work.  They  did  it  well.  They  saved  the 
country.  They  saved  my  home  and  yours.  They  saved  the  great, 
inestimably  valuable  principles  of  liberty  and  freedom  and  justice  that 
were  so  dear,  and  are  so  dear,  to  the  heart  of  every  American,  yet  in 
spite  of  all  they  have  done  and  with  all  the  good  that  they  have  done, 
they  have  not  altogether  saved  themselves.  I  would  have  them  not  only 
save  their  country,  I  would  have  them  save  themselves,  and  I  believe 
that  the  greatest  duty  that  we  can  perform  for  them,  the  manner  in 
which  we  can  best  show  our  appreciation  of  their  valiant  service,  is  to 


196 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


take  them  by  the  hand,  indeed,  put  our  arms  around  them  and  say 
to  them:  Boys,  boys,  defenders  of  America,  defend  yourselves  against 
the  incursion  of  sin,  against  the  ravages  of  disease,  against  the  tempta- 
tions and  snares  of  the  devil.  Keep  yourselves  free  from  the  sins  of 
the  earth,  prepare  yourselves  to  win  the  victory  for  the  whole  country, 
for  let  me  tell  you  the  winning  of  the  war  did  not  of  itself  mean  the 
winning  of  the  victory  for  the  great  mass  of  humanity.  That  is  still  to 
be  won  and  as  some  wise  man  has  said  it  will  be  won  by  that  country 
or  those  countries  which  a  generation  hence  have  produced  the  finest 
young  men  and  the  finest  young  women.    And  that  is  true. 

THE  INSIDIOUS  CIGARETTE  EVIL. 

I  observe  regretfully,  sorrowfully,  that  a  great  number  of  the 
young  men  who  went  over  to  fight  for  our  country  have  come  back  ad- 
dicted to  the  use  of  tobacco.  It  is,  in  my  judgment,  a  most  unfortunate 
outcome  of  their  experience.  Many  of  them  never  used  it  before.  Most 
of  them  who  went  from  this  section  of  the  country  have  been  taught 
that  it  was  against  their  interest,  that  it  was  against  the  law  of  the 
Church,  and  that  it  would  only  make  for  their  ill  health,  and  would  con- 
tribute to  their  downfall  in  life.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  there  is 
more  or  less  excuse  for  them.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  everywhere 
they  went,  every  station  at  which  they  stopped,  every  hamlet  that  they 
visited,  there  came  to  them  offers  of  tobacco  in  one  form  or  another. 
Young  ladies,  thinking  to  do  them  kindness  and  to  show  them  cour- 
tesy, presented  them  that  everlasting  cigarette, — the  cigarette  on  every 
side.  Many  of  them  were  so  led  to  adopt  this  practice.  Then  in  order 
to  increase  their  temptation,  in  order  to  make  it  harder  for  them  to 
resist,  there  has  gone  forth  in  this  country  and  in  other  countries  the 
most  damnable  campaign  of  advertising  that  has  ever  been  initiated 
.  or  maintained  in  all  the  earth,  the  campaign  begun  by  the  National 
Tobacco  Trust,  which  has  for  its  aim  and  object  the  enslavement  of 
every  young  man,  and  woman,  too,  with  this  vile  and  injurious  practice 
of  using  tobacco.  You  cannot  go  down  a  street,  you  cannot  look  beside 
a  railroad  track,  you  cannot  observe  a  prominent  place  without  seeing 
great,  expensive  bill  boards  advertising,  soliciting  for  the  use  of  tobacco 
in  the  most  insidious  ways,  appealing  indeed  to  the  very  love  of  a  son 
for  his  father.  Have  you  ever  seen  that  great  bill  board  upon  which 
are  printed  these  words :  "Ask  Dad,  he  knows,"  appealing  to  the 
desire  of  the  boy  to  imitate  the  example  which  his  father,  in  weakness, 
may  have  set.  What  a.  fearful  thing !  Well,  men  and  women,  that  is 
before  you.  What  are  you  going  to  do  with  it?  Are  you  going  to 
let  this  great  trust  that  has  not  one  single  motive  in  this  world,  other 
than  to  make  money,  corrupt  the  morals  of  your  boys  and  girls  under 
that  slavish  and  terrible  practice  of  using  tobacco  ?  If  you  do,  you  will 
repent  of  it.  The  time  will  come  when  you  will  wish  you  had  not.  In 
behalf  of  the  Church,  in  behalf  of  all  those  who  stand  for  the  uplift 


i 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


197 


and  the  advancement  of  the  young,  I  call  upon  you,  men  and  women, 
whether  you  are  members  of  our  Church  or  not,  to  stand  against  this 
fearful  campaign,  to  stand  for  that  which  will  bring  your  boys  and 
girls  up  to  high  ideals,  to  nobler  aspirations  in  life,  that  will  make  them 
fit,  fit  for  the  world's  service. 

SMOKERS  NOT  WANTED  IN  BUSINESS. 

I  am  grateful  to  say  that  there  are  a  great  many  large  business 
institutions  in  the  country  that  won't  hire  a  boy  who  smokes  a  cigar- 
ette. There  are  a  great  many  institutions  that  have  recognized  the 
evil  of  this  practice  to  such  an  extent  that  they  will  not  have  within 
their  institutions  a  man  who  uses  tobacco.  That  will  help,  but  un- 
fortunately there"  are  thousands  of  other  institutions  which  do  not 
seem  to  care  one  whit  for  the  morals  of  the  community  and  which  have 
no  purpose  except  to  gain  money.  There  are  thousands  of  men  and 
women  in  this  world  who  would  be  willing  to  sacrifice  the  soul  of  a  man 
to  gain  a  dollar.   They  are  the  ones  against  whom  we  must  fight. 

ENFORCE  THE  LAWS  AGAINST  TOBACCO. 

I  want  to  remind  you  that  we  have  upon  our  statute  books, 
enacted  by  the  legislature  of  this  state,  laws  which  make  it  a  crime  to 
sell  cigarettes  or  tobacco  in  any  form  to  boys  under  the  age  of  21  years. 
I  am  reminded  that  those  same  laws  are  upon  the  statutes  of  other 
states.  I  believe  it  to  be  the  duty  of  every  citizen,  of  every  man  who 
has  at  heart  the  welfare  of  his  country,  to  stand  for  the  enforcement 
of  these  laws.  I  do  not  believe  a  man  is  entitled  to  the  privileges  and 
the  blessings  and  the  opportunities  of  citizenship  unless  he  is  willing 
to  take  the  burdens  and  the  obligations  that  come  with  them,  and  one 
of  the  obligations  that  come  with  citizenship  is  to  see_  that  the  laws  are 
enforced.  Therefore,  I  call  upon  my  dear  friends,  those  whom  I  know 
have  at  heart  the  welfare  of  the  young,  to  see  to  it  that  so  far  as  it  lies 
within  your  power  you  cause  these  laws  to  be  enforced.  I  call  upon 
you  to  get  behind  the  prosecuting  authorities  to  help  to  sustain  the 
law,  and  if  I  had  my  way  I  would  boycott  every  store,  every  place  of 
business  in  this  whole  land  that  persisted  in  selling  cigarettes  and 
tobacco  in  violation  of  the  law.  I  would  not  buy  a  pound  of  butter,  I 
would  not  buy  a  pound  of  sugar,  if  I  could  help  it,  from  any  institution 
that  persisted  in  taking  action  looking  to  the  wrecking  of  the  life  of  a 
boy. 

THE  PICTURE  NOT  OVERDRAWN. 

Now,  you  may  think  that  my  attitude,  and  the  attitude  of  my 
brethren,  are  extreme.  Let  me  tell  you  why  we  feel  so  serious  about 
this  matter,  why  we  look  upon  the  prospects  with  so  much  of  concern. 


198 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Boys  who  begin  to  smoke  cigarettes  take  the  initial  step  that  tends 
to  lead  them  downward.  We  know  that  aside  from  the  deleterious 
effect  caused  to  their  health  by  this  noxious  weed,  the  associations,  the 
manner  of  living,  the  habits  of  life  are  of  even  more  serious  consequence 
as  they  are  attributable  in  many  instances  to  the  use  of  tobacco.  A 
boy  from  a  good  family,  with  high  ideals,  with  good  standards  in  his 
life  is  induced  to  smoke  cigarettes.  What  is  the  result?  He  cannot 
smoke  at  home ;  his  folks  will  not  have  the  smoking  there.  He  has  to 
go  away  from  home.  When  he  goes  away  from  home  he  loses  the 
influence  that  should  surround  him.  He  becomes  estranged  from  his 
father  and  his  mother.  The  ties  that  bind,  the  safeguards  that  are 
placed  around  him  are  lost,  and  in  many,  many  cases  he  is  led  down 
into  bad  company.  He  comes  in  contact  with  vicious  characters  and 
the  very  things  that  he  most  needs  during  his  dangerous  period  of  life 
are  withdrawn  from  him.  He  is  left  to  himself  and  in  consequence  he 
loses  himself.  He  loses  the  fine  standards,  the  high  ideals  that  he  had, 
and  he  comes  to  grief.  In  addition  to  that,  a  young  man  who  knows 
that  it  is  against  the  law  of  the  Church  to  use  tobacco,  when  he  suc- 
cumbs to  that  practice,  cannot  pray.  He  loses  the  spirit  of  prayer. 
He  recognizes  the  fact  that  his  life  is  not  in  conformity  with  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel.  He  loses  respect  for  his  leaders.  He  loses  the 
love  and  the  confidence  of  the  men  and  women  who  can  help  him,  and  I 
tell  you  he  is  in  a  dangerous  place.  Do  you  think  I  overdraw  the  pic- 
ture? I  only  call  upon  you  to  consult  your  own  experiences  and  your 
own  observations.  I  ask  you,  have  you  ever  known  of  the  use  of 
tobacco  helping  any  man  or  any  boy  in  this  world  ?  I  ask  you,  if  after 
you  have  made  careful  observation  you  do  not  conclude  that  it  is  at 
the  very  root,  at  the  very  initiation  of  much  of  the  crime,  the  back- 
sliding, and  the  falling  away  among  our  people  and  among  all  people. 

LET   ALL   UNITE   AGAINST   THE  EVIL. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust  that  every  man  and  woman 
who  stands  here,  I  trust  that  every  one  who  claims  membership  in  this 
great  Church,  indeed,  I  could  hope  that  all  who  claim  citizenship  in 
these  great  states  here,  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  will  pledge 
themselves  to  stand  by  the  law  of  God  and  the  law  of  the  land.  I 
trust  that  every  man  will  use  his  influence  to  see  that  these  laws  are 
enforced,  and  I  trust  that  the  women  will  add  the  force  of  their  power 
as  well.  Not  alone,  of  course,  can  we  hope  to  accomplish  the  result 
that  we  seek  for  by  the  external  pressure  we  can  bring  by  force  of  law. 
We  must  do  it  from  within.  We  must  teach  these  boys  that  it  is 
wrong.  We  must  save  them,  save  them  for  themselves,  save  them  for 
their  home  and  save  them  for  the  country  and  for  the  church.  In 
order  to  do  that  we  have  got  to  instil  in  them  a  love  and  a  respect  for 
the  principles  of  the  gospel.  We  have  got  to  teach  them  to  have 
respect  for  the  leaders  of  the  Church.    We  have  got  to  teach  them 


> 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS.  199 

that  they  cannot  criticize  and  condemn  God's  servants  and  continue  to 
have  the  Spirit  of  God  with  them.  We  have  got  to  teach  them  respect 
for  law.  We  have  got  to  teach  them  the  obligations  of  citizenship. 
We  have  got  to  make  them  know  that  they  are  the  principal  ones 
upon  whom  the  future  of  the  Church,  the  future  of  the  state,  the  future 
of  the  nation  and  the  world  depends. 

LET  PARENTS  TEACH  THE  GOSPEL  IN  THE  HOME. 

Boys  can  realize  their  responsibility  if  it  is  put  up  to  them  rightly. 
I  plead  with  my  fellow  parents  to  teach  the  boys  and  the  girls  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  their  homes.  I  plead  with  them  to  teach 
them  these  fundamental  things  that  they  have  heard  discussed  here 
this  afternoon,  in  order  that  they  may  be  impressed  with  them,  in  order 
thatjhey  may  know  God,  in  order  that  they  may  recognize  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  that  they  must  conform  their 
lives  to  his  laws  or  they  cannot  hope  to  be  successful  in  any  way  in 
this  life.  I  pray  that  our  Father  will  bless  the  homes  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  pray  that  every  man  who  is  the  head  of  a  household  may 
be  a  father,  a  real  father.  I  pray  to  God  that  every  mother  into  whose 
loving  hands  is  entrusted  the  nurture,  the  culture,  the  development  of 
these  precious  human  souls  may  be  a  mother,  not  just  a  woman.  And 
if  our  homes  are  filled'  with  mothers  and  real  fathers,  God  will  do  the 
rest.  Amen. 

The  Authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented  by  Elder  Stephen 
L.  Richards,  as  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  unanimously  sustained. 
The  congregation  sang: 

Lord,  dismiss  us  with  Thy  blessing; 

Fill  our  hearts  with  joy  and  peace; 
Let  us  each,  Thy  love  possessing, 

Triumph  in  redeeming  grace. 
O  refresh  us, 

Traveling  through  this  wilderness. 

Thanks  we  give,  and  adoration. 

For  the  Gospel's  joyful  sound; 
May  the  fruits  of  Thy  salvation 

In  our  hearts  and  lives  abound. 
Ever  faithful, 

To  the  truth  may  we  be  found. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard. 


200 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  the  Conference  was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock 
p.  m.,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning! 

The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come  forth; 
The  visions  and  blessings  of  old  are  returning, 

And  angels  are  coming  to  visit  the  earth. 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout  with  the  armies  of  heaven, 
Hosanna,  hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb! 
Let  glory  to  them  in  the  highest  be  given, 

Henceforth  and  forever;  amen  and  amen! 

The  Lord  is  extending  the  Saints'  understanding, 

Restoring  their  judges  and  all  as  at  fiist. 
The  knowledge  and  power  of  God  are  expanding, 

The  vail  o'er  the  earth  is  beginning  to  burst, 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout,  etc. 

We'll  call  in  our  solemn  assemblies  in  spirit, 
To  spread  forth  the  kingdom  of  heaven  abroad, 

That  we  through  our  faith  may  begin  to  inherit 
The  visions  and  blessings  and  glories  of  God. 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout,  etc. 

We'll  wash  and  be  washed,  and  with  oil  be  anointed, 

Withal  not  omitting  the  washing  of  feet; 
For  he  that  receiveth  his  penny  appointed 

Must  surely  be  clean  at  the  harvest  of  wheat. 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout,  etc. 

Old  Israel,  that  fled  from  the  world  for  his  freedom, 
Must  come  with  the  cloud  and  the  pillar  amain; 

A  Moses  and  Aaron  and  Joshua  lead  him, 
And  feed  him  on  manna  from  heaven  again. 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout,  etc. 

How  blessed  the  day  when  the  lamb  and  the  Hon 

Shall  lie  down  together  without  any  ire, 
And  Ephraim  be  crowned  with  his  blessing  in  Zion, 

As  Jesus  descends  with  His  chariot  of  fire! 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout  with  the  armies  of  heaven, 

Hosanna,  hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb! 
Let  glory  to  them  in  the  highest  be  given, 

Henceforth  and  forever;  amen,  and  amen! 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  K.  Udall,  President  of  the 
St.  Johns,  Arizona,  Stake  of  Zion. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT.  201 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  informs  me  that  I  made  a  mistake, 
he  thinks,  in  announcing  that  his  father's  favorite  hymn  was,  "Up- 
hold the  Right."  He  believes  his  father's  favorite  hymn  was,  "I 
know  that  my  Redeemer  lives."  As  I  read  the  other  favorite,  hymn, 
I  will  read  this  one. 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives; 
What  comfort  this  sweet  sentence  gives! 
He  lives,  He  lives,  who  once  was  dead, 
He  lives,  my  ever-living  head. 

He  lives  to  bless  me  with  his  love, 
Ht  lives  to  plead  for  me  above, 
He  lives,  my  hungry  soul  to  feed, 
He  lives  to  bless  in  time  of  need. 

He  lives  to  grant  me  rich  supply, 
He  lives  to  guide  me  with  His  eye, 
He  lives  to  comfort  me  when  faint, 
He  lives  to  hear  my  soul's  complaint. 

He  lives  to  silence  all  my  fears, 

He  lives  to  wipe  away  my  tears, 

He  lives  to  calm  my  troubled  heart, 

He  lives,  all  blessings  to  impart, 

-    He  lives,  my  kind,  wise,  heavenly  friend, 
He  lives  and  loves  me  to  the  end, 
He  lives,  and  while  he  lives  I'll  sing, 
He  lives,  my  Prophet,  Priest  and  King. 

He  lives,  and  grants  me  daily  breath, 
He  lives,  and  I  shall  conquer  death, 
He  lives,  my  mansion  to  prepare, 
He  lives  to  bring  me  safely  there. 

He  lives,  all  glory  to  His  name! 
He  lives,  my  Savior,  still  the  same; 
O,  the  sweet  joy  this  sentence  gives, 
"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives!" 

You  will  note  that  I  have  changed  one  word  in  the  second  line 
of  the  last  verse.  I  remember  that  whenever  we  sang  this  hymn 
in  the  Temple,  President  Smith  insisted  on  reading  that  line  as  I  have 
given  it,  "He  lives,  my  Savior,  still  the  same."  I  believe  that  I  am 
safe  in  saying  that  no  man  who  has  ever  stood'  at  the  head  of  the 
Church,  within  the  recollection  of  us  who  were  born  in  this  valley, 
ever  thrilled  the  hearts  of  the  people  in  testifying  that  his  Redeemer 
lived,  as  did  our  late  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 


202 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  sang:  "Hear  Him,"  from  the  Oratorio,  "The  Restora- 
tion," by  B.  Cecil  Gates,  solo  by  Emma  Lucy  Gates. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

That  is  very  beautiful,  indeed,  and  it  seems  very  appropriate,  in 
this  magnificent  structure,  erected  under  the  direction  of  President 
Brigham  Young,  that  his  grandson  and  his  granddaughter  should  be 
connected  with  this  beautiful  singing. 

I  sometimes  feel  that  we  should  have  at  least  four  days,  instead 
of  three,  for  conference,  as  there  are  so  many  from  whom  ,we  would 
like  to  .hear,  but  time  will  not  permit.  We  will  now  hear  briefly  from 
the  members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 
(President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  am  thankful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  honor  of  stand- 
ing before  you  today.  When  I  look  over  the  vast  congregation  as- 
sembled here.  I  wonder  within  myself,  What  shall  I  say  to  you?  But, 
the  Lord  being  my  helper,  I  shall  say  something,  I  hope,  that  will  in- 
terest you  as  well  as  be  a  blessing  for  myself.  I  noticed  that  when  it 
was  announced  that  the  music  for  this  beautiful  pieee  to  be  rendered 
at  this  session  had  been  lost  and  found,  a  ripple  of  merriment  was 
heard,  in  some  part  of  the  congregation.  I  have  always  been  con- 
vinced that  we  are  a  light-hearted  people;  that  we  are  always  ready 
to  appreciate  merriment,  as  well  as  subjects  more  profound  and  some- 
times sorrowful.  I  am  reminded  now  of  a  visit  I  once  made  to  one 
of  our  stakes  of  Zion.  One  of  the  brethren  who  accompanied  us 
was  among  and  is  among  the  most  eloquent,  pleasing  and  forceful 
speakers;  but  I  noticed  that  when  he  arose  to  speak  the  people  be- 
gan to  smile,  and  before  he  had  proceeded  very  far  with  his  subject 
ripples  of  laughter  were  heard  throughout  the  congregation;  and 
I  was  reminded  of  a  circumstance  that  I  witnessed  in  London,  many 
years  ago.  I  was  at  a  play,  during  the  Christmas  holidays,  at  the 
Drury  Lane  theatre.  A  man  came  on  to  the  stage ;  and  the  mo- 
ment he  came  before  the  audience,  people  began  to  smile,  and  finally  to 
laugh ;  and  when  he  had  spoken  a  half  dozen  words,  shouts  of 
laughter  were  heard  from  every  part  of  the  house.  I  inquired  of  a 
neighbor",  sitting  near,  "Who  is  the  gentleman?" 

"That  is  the  celebrated  William  Buxton,  known  all  over  the 
world  as  the  great  comedian.  Whenever  he  appears  before  the  peo- 
ple they  laugh ;  they  are  full  of  joy  and  merriment." 

I  thought  this  is  very  well  and  very  necessary;  and  yet  in  this 
particular  congregation  that  I  speak  of  in  the  north,  I  thought  the 
merriment  at  times  was  a  little  out  of  place,  because  the  brethren  who 
visit  those  conferences,  both  for  the  Young  Men's  and  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual,  as  well  as  for  the  Religion  Classes,  and  for  the  gen- 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


203 


eral  assembly,  for  that  matter,  are  handling  and  dealing  with  subjects 
that  are  serious,  and  of  the  utmost  and  greatest  importance  and 
moment  for  the  consideration  of  all  concerned. 

I  rejoice  today  for  the  privilege  of  standing  before  you.  I  am 
reminded  of  some  facts  pertaining  to  the  history  that  has  brought 
to  pass  present  events.  It  was  remarked  here  today  that  the  allied 
nations  of  the  world,  recently  banded  together  for  the  defense  of 
the  world,  were  ready  and  glad  to  stand  in  the  defense  of  their  com- 
mon countries,  and  were  ready  for  the  announcement  of  a  day  which 
brought  the  Armistice  and  the  cessation  of  bloodshed ;  and  I  am 
glad  to  say  at  this  time  that  I  have,  I  believe,  seen  the  hand  of  the 
Lord  manifest  in  this  great  war,  time  after  time;  and  no  greater 
manifestation  and  no  greater  joy  could  fill  my  heart  than  that  which 
I  experienced  when  peace  was  declared.  So  the  peace  that  is  being  es- 
tablished and  considered  and  accentuated  and  furthered  by  the  League 
of  Nations  has  my  unqualified  approval  because  if  ever  I  felt  like 
sustaining  my  brethren  of  the  Authorities — which  I  always  have  felt, 
in  every  fiber  of  my  being — I  have  the  same  feeling  today;  and  I  re- 
joice in  this.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  the  very  man  to  decide 
these  great  questions ;  and  I  know  that  every  true  Latter-day  Saint, 
I  know  that  the  Apostles  and  all  the  leading  brethren  who  preside 
over  the  Church  are  one  with  him,  in  sustaining  and  upholding  him 
as  the  true  leader  of  this  people,  and  we  are.  That  makes  me  know, 
beyond  a  question  of  doubt,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  on  the 
right  path,  and  on  the  direct  line  of  progress  and  advancement.  There 
have  been  men  raised  up  by  the  hand  and  providence  of  Almighty 
God,  time  after  time,  to  bring  to  pass  the  events  and  the  great  issues 
which  we  witness  today. 

The  name  of  Lincoln  was  mentioned  here  by  one  of  the  speak- 
ers- It  is  recorded  that  his  mother,  Nancy  Hanks  Lincoln,  in  their 
little  cabin  home,  irr  the  wilds  of  old  Kentucky,  which  was  the  Far 
West  in  that  day,  one  morning  went  about  her  work  smiling  and 
singing,  seemingly  full  of  joy  and  rejoicing,  and  her  husband  said 
to  her: 

"Nancy,  what  makes  you  so  happy?" 

She  said:  "Thomas,  last  night  I  saw  a  vision;  I  was  signalled 
from  the  shores  of  eternity,  and  I  shall  have  a  son.  He  will  be  a 
great  man  among  men ;  for  I  saw  that  he  was  among  men;  for  I 
saw  that  he  was  among  the  leaders  of  the  nation,  and  that  among 
the  great  men  he  was  great.  He  came  to  his  mother,  put  his  arms 
around  me  and  said:  Mother,  I  have  builded  for  you  and  for  my 
country  a  beautiful  palace,  with  marble  pillars  that  reach  to  high 
heaven ;  but  it  has  cost  me  my  life.'  " 

At  the  close  of  the  war,  forty  days  after  his  second  inaugura- 
tion as  President,  a  crazy  assassin  sneaked  into  the  procenium  box,  at 
the  Ford  theatre,  in  Washington,  placed  a  pistol  behind  his  ear  and 
lodged  a  bullet  in  his  brain.  He  had  gone  through  the  agony  of 
four  years  and  a  half  of  the  Civil  War.    He  had  met  every  difficulty, 


204 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


face  to  face,  when  often  members  of  his  own  party  seemed  in  doubt, 
and  many  of  them  so  far  forgetting  themselves  that  they  came  to 
him,  with  tears  in  their  eyes,  and  with  trembling  voice,  and  said: 

"Lincoln,  you  must  stop  the  war,  even  if  you  break  the  Union." 

Lincoln  replied:  "Never,  while  life  is  in  me,  will  I  surrender  to 
those  who  would  disrupt  this  glorious  nation  of  ours;"  and  he  main- 
tained the  cause  of  the  Union  through  all  those  years  of  trial.  When 
he  had  completed  his  task,  the  Union,  the  beautiful  "palace"  that  he 
had  established  and  maintained,  the  glorious  Union  of  this  glorious 
country  was  established  more  firmly  than  ever  before ;  for  the  scourge 
of  slavery  was  taken  entirely  from  its  institutions,  and  none  but  freemen 
occupied  the  soil  of  the  United  States.  So  he  had  builded  the  pal- 
ace with  beautiful  marble  pillars,  for  his  countrymen  and  for  his  loved 
ones.  Sacrifice  seems  to  have  been  the  law  of  those  great  hearts  who 
have  been  the  ministers  of  the  world,  who  have  produced  results 
that  have  saved  the  world  from  time  to  time.  As  Lincoln's  mother 
said,  on  one  occasion,  when  he  inquired  why  the  Indians  had  been 
permitted  to  destroy  a  village  in  which  his  grandfather  lived,  and 
to  scalp  his  grandfather  and  take  his  life:  "Boy,  you  must  know 
that  there  never  was  a  country  worth  having,  that  there  never  was 
a  cause  worth  fighting  for,  that  did  not  cost  the  best  blood  of  those  who 
defended  it."  Sacrifice  so  begun  and  accentuated  more  fully  in  other 
great  men's  lives ! 

President  Grant  informs  me  that  the  time  is  up.  I  testify  to  you 
that  "Mormonism"  is  true;  that  our  Leaders  are  directing  the  affairs 
of  this  Church,  according  to  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord.  God 
bless  you.  .Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  If  I  could  do  so/ without  being  mis- 
understood, I  would  be  very  happy  and  more  than  pleased  to  yield 
my  time  to  my  brethren  who  are  to  follow.  That,  however,  would 
be  misconstrued;  and  so,  responding  to  the  wish  of  President  Grant, 
who  is  conducting  this  conference  I  am  sure,  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  that  is  in  him,  I  desire  to  say,  and  am  thankful  for  the  op- 
portunity of  saying  it,  that  I  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  as 
the  creating  and  sustaining  power  of  the  universe.  I  believe  in  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  as  the  Redeemer  of  men.  I  believe  in  the  Holy 
Ghost  as  the  witness  of  the  existence,  and  power,  and  majesty  and 
might  of  the  Father ;  and  the  witness  also  to  the  redeeming  power  of 
the  Christ.  I  believe  that  these  Three  constitute  the  one  Godhead  of 
our  universe,  and  that1  there  proceeds  forth  from  their  presence  the 
spirit  that  carries  the  power  and  attributes  of  God — wisdom,  holiness, 
majesty,  justice  and  mercy — throughout  the  immensity  of  space;  and 
that  it  is  possible  for  men  to  live  and  move  and  have  their  being  in 
that  holy  Presence.  I  believe  in  the  new  dispensation  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  these  our  own  times;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


205 


prophet  inspired  of  God  to  establish — no,  re-establish —  his  Church  up- 
on the  earth,  no  more  to  be  thrown  down,  forever;  and  as  the  years 
multiply  upon  my  head  a  knowledge  of  these  great  truths  increase  in 
their  emphasis  in  my  soul.  "Time  but  the  impression  deeper  makes, 
As  streams  their  channels  deeper  wear."  To  this  I  bear  witness  in 
your  presence,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 
(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  presume  there  are  very  few  who  are  here  present  who  are  not 
aware  of  the  fact  that  I  was  born  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains. 
Have  I  not  given  evidence  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  of  this  Church, 
during  the  twenty-seven  years  of  my  ministry?  Have  I  not  been  frank 
and  honest  and  clear  in  my  statements,  and  have  I  felt  any  doubt  in 
your  minds  that  I  do  not  believe  and  am  not  honest  and  truthful  and 
believe  with  all  my  heart  and  with  all  my  soul  that  God  is  the  Father  ? 
I  may  not  have  a  perfect  and  true  conception  of  God,  but  I  love 
God ;  I  love  him  for  his  perfection ;  I  love  him  for  his  mercy ;  I  love 
him  for  his  justice;  and  notwithstanding  my  many  weaknesses  I  am 
not  afraid  to  meet  him.  For  I  know  that  he  will  deal  justly  by  me; 
and  the  great  joy  I  will  have  is  that  he  will  understand  me  and  that 
ie  more  than  some  of  you  have  been  able  to  do.  (Laughter.)  I  be- 
lieve with  the  same  love  and  faith  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  there  is  no  man  living  who  reads  the  things  that  God  has  re- 
vealed through  the  Prophet,  and  the  sayings  of  the  Prophet  with 
more  joy  and  more  satisfaction  and  more  happiness  than  I  have  in  read- 
ing of  the  Prophet  of  God.  My  father  breathed  it  into  my  very  soul, 
and  I  thank  God  that  I  am  a  son  of  one  of  God's  servants,  and  that 
no  man  can  place  a  finger  or  make  a  statement  that  he  did  not  up- 
hold the  Prophet  of  God,  not  only  Joseph  Smith  but  Brigham  Young 
and  all  the  others  who  labored  in  the  Church.  Now,  friends,  if  you 
are  in  any  doubt  about  my  standing  in  the  Church  and  any  of  you 
want  to  question  my  loyalty  and  patriotism  you  can  get  a  row  any  time 
you  want  it.  (Laughter) 

I  sustain  President  Grant.  When  he  became  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  I  told  him  I  sustained 
him  with  my  full  faith  and  confidence ;  and  that  is  the  best  I  can  do. 
I  propose  to  stand  behind  him  and  his  counselors  and  the  Twelve 
apostles.  As  I  told  an  apostle  once:  "If  God  Almighty  puts  a  child 
in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  give  me  enough  of  his  Spirit, 
I  will  sustain  him.    I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  find  myself  in  full  and  happy  accord  with  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference and  the  utterances  that  have  been  made  from  this  stand.  I 


206 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


believe  in  the  doctrines  that  have  been  taught.  I  believe  in  those  prin- 
ciples which  are  the  underlying  foundation  of  the  work  of  God  which 
contemplate  and  have  for  their  purpose  the  liberation  and  freedom  of 
the  children  of  God,  not  only  our  civil  liberty  and  freedom  from  the 
tyranny  of  despotic  and  autocratic  governments,  but  also  that  per- 
fect liberty  which  can  only  be  attained  through  obedience  to  the 
"perfect  law  of  liberty" — the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — the 
truth  which  will  make  us  free  indeed,  even  free  from  the  bondage  of 
sin  and  the  tyranny  of  the  adversary  of  our  souls. 

The  discovery  of  this,  land — the  promised  land — the  Land  of 
Joseph,  the  Zion  of  latter  days,  and' the'  establishment  thereon  of  this 
government,  a  government  deriving  its  powers  from  the  consent  of 
the  governed,  is  so  interwoven  with  the  work  of  God  that  we  are 
bound  to  recognize  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  in  connection  there- 
with. 

Read  I  Nephi  13,  12  where  Nephi  sees  in  vision  that  the  Spirit 
of  God  inspired  the  great  Columbus  (it  can  mean  no  other)  to  cross 
the  many  waters,  the  great  Atlantic  ocean,  which  separated  him  from 
the  seed  of  Nephi's  brethren,  who  were  in  the  promised  land. 

Let  me,  then,  declare  my  faith  in  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 'as 
it  relates  to  these  historical  events : 

I  believe  that  the  Lord  restored  this  land  and  inspired  its  dis- 
covery by  Columbus  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  government 
thereon  which  would  secure  to  its  people  their  inalienable  rights  of 
life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 

I  believe  that  he  inspired  Thomas  Jefferson  in  the  writing  of  the 
Declaration  of  Independence.  I  believe  that  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  was  inspired  of  God,  that  under  its  protection  his 
Church  could  be  established  and  thereby  the  "perfect  law  of  liberty," 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ)  be  promulgated  not  only  in  the  promised 
land  but  in  all  lands,  to  every  nation,  kindred',  tongue  and  people. 

I  believe  that  George  Washington  was  the  human  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  God  in  establishing  a  government  based  on  the  principles 
of  human  liberty. 

I  believe  that  Abraham  Lincoln  was  the  human  instrument  in 
God's  hand  of  preserving  these  precious  principles  that  they  should 
not  perish  from  the  earth. 

I  believe  that  Woodrow  Wilson  is  the  human  instrument,  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  of  extending  these  principles  to  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  for  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons  but  designs  that  all  his 
children  shall  be  made  free. 

I  believe  that  the  League  of  Nations  covenant,  when  ratified, 
will  become  the  instrument  whereby  the  inalienable  rights  of  men  shall 
be  extended  to  our  Father's  children  in  every  land,  that  it  will  be  an 
effectual  opening  of  the  door  which  will  admit  the  promulgation  of 
the  greater,  the  perfect,  law  of  liberty,  through  which  the  Lord  designs 
to  make  his  children  free.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo :  "Abide  with  Me,"  was  sung  by  David  Rees. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN.  -  207 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
splendid  things  that  I  have  heard  during  this  conference,  and  I  feel 
that  I  have  been  very  greatly  benefited  by  the  earnest  testimonies  that 
have  been  borne  by  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  by 
the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord.  Jesus  Christ  that  have  been 
sounded  in  our  hearing  under  the  inspiration  of  the  holy  Spirit. 

I  have  had  the  blessed  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of 
engaging,  for  the  past  few  months,  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
in  the  California  mission,  and  have  witnessed,  during  the  short  time 
that  I  have  been  in  this  ministry,  the  marvelous  thing  that  God,  our 
Father  in  heaven,  is  able  to  do  with  his  handmaidens  and  with  his 
servants  who  engage  in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  I  suppose  all 
those  who  have  responsibilities  resting  upon  them  similar  to  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  rest  upon  me,  at  the  present  time,  wonder  why  from 
the  ranks  of  the  holy-  Priesthood  there  cannot  be  found  men,  with 
love  in  their  hearts  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  have  had  ex- 
perience in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  to  come  into  the  missionary 
field  and  exercise  the  gifts  and  graces  and  powers  that  have  come  to 
them  by  experience,  for  the  spreading  of  the  gospel  among  the  peo- 
ple. Yet  the  marvelous  thing  that  has  taken  place,  before  my  eyes, 
in  the  past  few  months  has  been  to  see  boys,  who  have  come  with 
very  great  fear,  with  very  great  anxiety,  with  very  much  stammering 
and  with  trembling  limbs,  developing  into  earnest  missionaries  for  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  hear  them,  while  tears  were  streaming 
down  their  cheeks,  bear  testimony  that  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  had 
revealed  unto  them  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  to  hear 
them  make  declaration  that  the  work  of  the  ministry,  that  seemed  to 
be  such  a  tremendous  undertaking  when  they  came  into  the  mission 
field,  had  been  the  sweetest  and  the  most  precious  and  the  most  won- 
derful experience  that  had  ever  come  into  their  lives. 

I  rejoice  to  be  associated  with  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Israel 
in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  am 
glad  for  the  faith  that  can  be  found  in  the  hearts  of  the  young  men 
and  the  young  women  who  are  willing  to  respond  to  the  calls  that 
are  made  upon  them  by  proper  authority,  and  go  forth  in  their  weak- 
ness and  in  their  fear,  and  lift  up  their  voices  in  proclamation  of  the 
truth.  I  rejoice,  above  all  else,  in  the  wonderful  power  of  the  Lord 
our  God  to  so  bless  these  feeble  instruments  that  they  are. able  to 
maintain  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  to  attract  to  the  fold  of  the 
Master,  men  who  in  worldly  learning  and  in  the  polish  of  the  world 
may  be  superior  to  themselves. 

Thank  God  for  the  gospel ;  it  is,  indeed,  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  This  work,  to  which  we  have  given  our  allegiance,  is  not 
the  result  of  the  wisdom  of  men's  thought;  but  it  is,  as  it  was  de- 
clared to  be,  in  the  very  beginning  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  revelation 


208 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  Lord.  I  bear  record  that  God  our  Father  in  heaven  and  his  son, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  bear 
record  that  men  who  had  ministered  in  the  authority  of  the  holy 
Priesthood,  while  dwelling  here  upon  the  earth,  as  greater  beings  in 
their  resurrected  bodies  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  ministered  un- 
to him  and  conferred  upon  him  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood 
and  gave  commandment  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
again  should  be  sounded  in  the  ears  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 
I  bear  record  that  that  divine  authority,  the  power  to  speak  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  right  to  call  men  to  repentance 
and  to  an  investigation  of  the  glorious  gospel,  has  been  conferred 
upon  the  men  who  have  been  teaching  us  during  this  conference. 

I  admonish  Israel  to  hearken  to  the  voice  of  the  good  Shepherd 
as  it  has  been  made  manifest  through  the  presiding  authorities  of 
the  Church,  to  follow  that  voice,  to  follow  that  lead,  and  God  will  be 
your  father  and  friend  and  will  continue  to  reveal  unto  you  the  truth 
that  has  been  made  manifest  in  this  dispensation.  I  bear  record  that 
the  things  that  we  are  teaching,  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  those 
fundamental  principles — faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  repentance 
from  sin,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — that  they  have 
been  revealed  in  our  day,  that  they  are  just  as  full  of  power  as.  they 
were  in  the  days  of  the  ancient  Apostles,  and  that  the  gospel  today, 
is,  as  it  always  has  been  and  ever  will  be,  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation. God  help  us  to-believe  it,  and  be  true  to  it,  forever  and  for- 
ever. Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I,  also,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  which 
the  brethren  have  given  us  during  this  conference,  and  in  the  instruc- 
tions and  admonitions  which  have  been  presented.  I  rejoice  in  the 
just  emphasis  which  the  restored  Church  places  upon  principles  and 
practices  among  men ;  that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  as  is  indi- 
cated in  the  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  fifty-sixth 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  giving  warning 
to  the  rich  man  and  warning  also  to  the  poor  man. 

It  is  a  matter  of  continued  satisfaction  that  we  have  the  right 
view  of  education.  The  president  of  the  greatest  university  in  the 
United  States,  so  far  as  numbers  are  concerned,  has  defined  educa- 
tion to  be  the  capacity  of  a  self-conscious  being  to  adapt  himself  to  en- 
vironment and  the  power  to  change  that  environment.  That  environ-  • 
ment  he  divided  in  two  classes — the  well  known  physical  and,  more 
important  than  that,  the  spiritual; — having  to  do  with  what  makes 
up  the  so-called  civilization  of  mankind,  man's  art,  his  science,  his 
literature,  his  institutional  life  and,  last  but  not  least,  his  religion.  So 
the  president  of  that  great  university,  Columbia,  makes  a  plea  for 


CHARLES  H.  HART. 


religious  training  and  our  Church  is  successfully  solving  that  problem 
of  giving  religious  training  without  impinging  upon  the  rights  of 
other  religionists  to  have  in  our  public  schools  neutrality  so  far  as 
sectarian  Christianity  is  concerned. 

I  rejoice  in  the  teachings  of  the  Church  that  this  land  of  ours  is 
God-protected ;  that  it  has  a  special  mission ;  that  it  is  governed  by  a 
constitution  formed  by  wise  men,  raised  up  for  that  purpose;  and 
that  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  gives  us  the  essentials  of  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence  and  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  ex- 
pressed in  these  instruments,  to  the  effect  or  in  substance  that  all  men 
are  free  and  equal,  and  that  governments  derive  their  just  powers 
from  the  consent  of  the  governed.  I  rejoice  in  the  further  fact  that 
the  boys  of  this  Church,  as  also  the  boys  of  this  state*  and  of  this 
Nation,  have  performed  a  noble  part  to  perpetuate  these  principles  in 
the  world.    When  they  went  forth  in  foreign  lands,  singing: 

God  is  in  his  judgment  seat, 
Christ  is  on  his  tree, 
And  Pershing's  men  are  marching — 
Marching  into  Picardy;" 

they  had  the  true  spirit  of  the  Crusaders  of  old,  who  were  willing  to 
battle  to  the  death  to  rescue  the  sacred  sepulchre  from  the  hands  of 
the  Saracens.  I  feel  proud  of  the  work  that  our  boys  did — the  work 
of  General  Young  and  others.  I  have  felt  that  it  was  indeed  provi- 
dential that  that  splendid  body  of  men,  grouped  as  they  were,  were  not 
required,  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord,  to  undergo  a  baptism  of  fire 
and  of  death  in  the  great  conflict  in  which  they  were  willing  to  make 
the  supreme  sacrifice,  and  should  have  credit  for  their  willingness  as 
fully  as  though  the  deeds  had  been  performed.  These  men  and  we 
ourselves,  I  feel  sure,  cannot  realize  the  importance  of  the  work 
which  has  been  done  to  sustain  these  great  principles  in  the  world. 
The  "Mormon"  Battalion  boys,  as  we  familiarly  call  them,  did  not 
realize  the  sublime  service,  for  this  state,,  and  for  this  intermountain 
country,  which  they  performed  in  1846-7.  They  were  not  permitted 
to  live  long  /enough  to  have  a  view  of  the  full  glory  which  was 
theirs;  but,  like  Moses,  were  permitted  only  from  afar  to  view  the 
promised  land.  These  men  did  not  fully  realize  the  glory  which  their 
posterity  will  receive  from  the  works  of  their  fathers.  It  is  true  that 
they  heard  their  general  say  that  history  might  be  searched  in  vain 
for  a  like  march  of  infantry;  that  they  had  heard'  General  Kearny 
say,  as  repeated  by  General  Cooke,  that  Napoleon  had  crossed  the 
Alps,  but  that  these  men  had  crossed  a  continent ;  and  after  the  lapse 
of  all  these  years  we  begin  to  get  a  true  perspective  of  the  sublime 
work  of. these  soldier  citizens.  Purely  as  a  civic  move  our  legislators 
have  provided  for  a  beautiful  monument  for  these  men,  by  appro- 
priating $100,000,  and  men  not  of  this  Church  have  been  just  as 
active  and  some  of  them  more  active,  perhaps,  than  Church  men,  in 
the  securing  of  this  great  tribute. 


210 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


If  time  permitted  I  would  like  to  read  some  of  the  remarks 
which  one  not  of  our  Church  has  made  in  reference  to  the  sublimity 
of  this  monument ;  but  there  is  only  remaining  time  for  me  to  express 
the  thought  that  our  people  will  do  honor  to  themselves  in  contribut- 
ing to  this  monument,  as  they, will  realize  as  they  learn  the  real  ac- 
complishment of  these  Battalion  men;  and  that  in  the  future  they 
will  be  doing  like  credit  and  honor  to  themselves  to  rear  a  more 
costly  monument  to  the  memory  of  the  boys  who  have  been  willing 
to  make  the  supreme  sacrifice  for  their  country  and  for  the  world. 
I  am  sure  that  their  labors  will  not  be  in  vain;  that  there  shall  be  no 
retrograde  movement;  that  the  history  of  international  law  and  the 
world  will  not  contain  a  chapter  showing  that  while  steady  although 
slow  progress  was  made  through  all  the  centuries  of  the  past;  that 
when  we  came  to  this  enlightened  Christian  age,  an  age  in  which 
the  restored  gospel  was  received,  that  a  retrograde  movement  set 
in,  and  that  progress  in  the  great  branch  of  the  law  known  as  inter- 
national law  ceased  and  that,  there  was  a  backward  turning.  I  think 
that  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  the  fruitage  of  the  seven  and  a 
half  millions  of  lives  lost  in  the  war  will  not  fall  to  the  ground  and 
be  futile,  but  there  shall  be  a  sublime  and  divine  fruitage  by  the  es- 
tablishment in  all  the  world  of  these  principles  for  which  the  Con- 
stitution stands,  an  instrument  given  to  us  by  inspired  men,  and  de- 
signed to  secure  immortality  to  the  work  of  man,  so  far  as  immortality 
can  be  imparted  to -human  institutions. 

Now  there  is  only  sufficient  time  for  me  to  drop  a  word  of  testi- 
mony. I  concur  in  the  testimonies  which  my  brethren  have  so  sub- 
limely and  strongly  given ;  and  in  addition  I  testify  to  the  great  joy 
that  I  have  had  in  the  past  thirteen  and  a  half  years  by  being  closely 
associated,  in  travel  and  in  the  work  of  the  ministry,  with  these  men 
whom,  in  a  few  minutes,  you  shall  uphold  your  hands  to  sustain  as 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators.  I  am  a  witness  that  they  have  been 
warned  of  danger  that  was  unforeseen  by  mere  human  wisdom ;  that 
they  have  prophesied  of  unusual  things  which  have  come  to  pass  thaf 
the  sick  have  been  raised  under  their  administration,  and  that  thev 
have  administered  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  meat  in  due  season  to 
the  people,  and  the  people  have  had  a  refreshing  of  the  Spirit  under 
the  ministrations  of  these  my  brethren.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to 
travel  more,  I  think,  with  President  Grant  than  with  any  other  one 
member  of  the  Twelve  or  the  First  Presidency,  except  perhaps  the 
late  Hyrum  M.  Smith;  and  I  have  learned  to  love  very  much  Presi-, 
dent  Grant  for  his  courage,  for  his  frankness,  for  the  simplicity  and 
strength  of  his  life,  and  for  his  faith.  My  first  thought  before  I  was 
acquainted  with  him  was  that  he  would  be  more  sympathetic  with 
the  richer  than  with  the  poorer  people,  but  I  soon  learned  ho.w  badly 
I  was  mistaken  in  reference  to  that.  I  rejoice  that  he  has  been  called 
into  this  high  position  to  preside  over  this  Church,  and  I  have  the 
fullest  confidence  in  the  success  of  his  administration.  May  the  Lord 
bless  him  and  his  counselors  and  the  Twelve,  who  have  treated  me 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG. 


211 


so  generously,  as  generously  as  my  own  father  could  possibly  treat 
me.  Brother  Grant  has  always  treated  me  as  generously  as  he  would 
treat  himself,  and  the  other  brethren,  particularly  the  older  brethren, 
and  some  of  those  who  have  departed,  have  been  indeed  fathers  to  me. 
I  rejoice  in  my  associations  with  them  and  with  the  Church,  and  I 
pray  the  blessings  of  heaven  to  be  upon  us  all,  in  the  names  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 
There  are  eleven  thousand  Seventies  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  already  organized  one  hundred 
and  ninety-eight  quorums  of  Seventy  throughout  the  Stakes  of  Zion. 
They  are  beginning,  more  and  more,  each  day,  to  cooperate  with  all  the 
other  brethren  holding  the  Priesthood  of  God.  As  one  of  the  seven 
Presidents  of  Seventy,  I  wish  to  say  that  it  is  our  desire  that  the 
Seventies  of  the  Church  become  the  scholars  and  missionaries  to  preach 
the  gospel  in  all  the  world.  We  want  them  to  have  the  power,  the  love 
and  the  light  of  God  to  aid  them  in  this  great  work.  We  sincerely  hope 
that  the  Seventies  will  take  upon  themeselves  new  life,  new  hope,  new 
vigor,  and  prepare  themselves  for  the  ministry  more  than  they  have 
done  in  the  past. 

This  has  been  a  remarkable  conference.  The  many  testimonies 
given  ring  true.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  everything  that  has 
been  said  is  true ;  for  the  words,  the  sentences,  the  thoughts  have  been 
pertaining  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  fact  that  ever  since 
the  days  of  Abraham  the  Lord  has  called  a  portion  of  his  family  to 
bear  witness  of  his  great  truths  is  an  inspiring  truth.  This  place  in 
the  mountains  had  been  preserved  for  the  people  of  God.  It  will  al- 
ways be  a  Stake  of  Zion.  May  we  as  Latter-day  Saints,  from  this  day 
on  have  our  testimonies  renewed  that  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  was  instituted  by  the  power  of  God,  and  the  way  prepared  for 
the  coming  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  that  testimony  grow 
in  our  hearts,  together  with  the  greater  testimony  that  God  lives, 
.  and  that  the  world  needs  a  knowledge  of  the  message  of  Jesus  Christ. 
There  can  be  no  solution  of  our  industrial,  social  and  political  prob- 
lems until  the  world  shall  know  for  a  fact  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  that  we  are  living  in  a  new  day  of  the  world's  history.  May  we, 
each  and  every  one  of  us,  return  to  our  homes,  buoyed  up  in  our  souls, 
with  a  courageous  feeling  for  the  new  day,  and  the  promise  of  a 
knowledge  of  God  and  his  great  work.  May  the  love  and  the  light  of 
this  glorious  gospel  rejuvenate  our  spirits  as  never  before,  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 
It  is  less  than  a  year  since  I  stood  with  President  Grant  at  the 
grave  of  our  departed  Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  then  and  there,  on  that 
sacred  spot,  made  pledge  and  covenant  with  Prest.  Grant  that  I  would 


212 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


devote  myself  as  energetically,  as  fervently,  as  obediently,  in  trying 
through  my  weak  efforts  to  make  his  administration  a  success  as  I 
■ever  had  done  in  the  work  that  I  had  tried  to  do  and  had  done  in  the 
administration  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  have  devotedly  and 
conscientiously  tried  to  fulfil  that  covenant  in  all  humility,  in  all  obed- 
ience, and  in  the  spirit  of  the  office  and  calling  which  I  hold.  I  pro- 
pose to  continue  in  that  line,  and  there  isn't  anything  that  these  breth- 
ren can  ask  me  to  do  that  I  will  not  willingly  try  to  do  for  the  further- 
ance of  this  work;  and  they  will  not  ask  me  to  do  anything  that  is 
not  in  the  interest  of  the  Kingdom  of  God.  But  there  is  one  thing 
on  which  President  Grant  and  I  never  could  agree;  he  thinks  that 
his  wife  is  better  looking  than  my  wife.  Well,  I  don't  believe  a  word 
of  it.  (Laughter.)  Anyhow,  if  it  is  referred  to  a  league,  or  assembly 
of  arbitration,  I  would  have  three  votes  to  his  one.  Now  with  that 
exception,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  in  entire  agreement  and  we 
are  working  together  harmoniously,  and,  as  I  say,  so  far  as  I  am  con- 
cerned, obediently  and  in  the  spirit  of  the  work. 

Now  just  a  minute  or  two  on  a  matter  that  I  think  is  of  con- 
siderable importance.  We  are  blessed  abundantly  in  wordly  things  in 
these  times.  Never  was  there  such  a  profusion  of  money.  Money, 
they  say,  is  cheap,  but  the  articles  we  have  to  buy  with  money  are 
dear,  which  is  true  indeed.  But  you  produce,  you  farmers,  most  of 
the  articles  that  the  rest  of  us  have  to  buy  and  there  is  plenty  of  money 
and  pretty  much  everybody  has  it.  The  unfortunate  thing  about  it 
is  that  a  great  many  people  are  spending  it  foolishly.  I  know  I  find 
it  so,  east  and  west,  wherever  I  travel.  You  see  attention  called  to 
it  in  the  magazines  and  newspapers.  People  are  spending,  as  they 
say,  "like  drunken  sailors."  We  ought  to  pause  in  that.  We  ought 
to  save  while  we  have  abundance.  It  is  a  foolish  person  who  spends 
all  he  has,  and  who  does  not  save.  I  know  there  are  some  who  will 
say,  "Well,  if  you  had  only  what  I  have,  and  the  family  I  have  to 
keep,  you  would  not  think  much  about  saving."  That  may  apply  and 
does  apply  doubtless  to  a  few  families,  one  here  and  there,  but  to 
the  great  general  part  of  the  Church,  the  farmers  and  business  men  - 
and  artisans  who  are  a  large  part  of  our  population  are  making  means 
in  abundance  and  are  not  saving  any  and  putting  it  away  for  a  rainy 
day.  We  are  spending  it,  and  we  are  spending  it  extravagantly,  al- 
most wastefully;  and  this  is  a  sin.  If  instead  of  crowding  into  so 
many  picture  shows  a  week,  if  we  would  only  stay  home  a  night  or 
two  a  week  and  read  the  Bible  or  the  Book  of  Mormon  or  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  to  our  families,  we  would  be  spending  our  time 
in  a  more  profitable  way  and  also  saving  our  money.  People  have 
lost  the  idea  of  being  thrifty  any  more  or  very  careful  about  their  ex- 
penditures either. 

The  Lord  is  working  in  the  earth.  The  predictions  of  the  proph- 
ets concerning  this  land  are  being  fulfilled.  I  heard  Orson  Pratt 
preach  a  sermon  in  Liverpool,  forty  years  ago  last  March,  concern- 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


213 


ing  this  land,  and  the  mob  law  that  would  obtain,  the  destruction  of 
society,  or,  if  not  its  entine  destruction,  the  destroying  element  that 
would  be  abroad  in  the  land,  the  utter  disregard  for  law  and  order, 
and  established  customs,  the  terror,  the  riot,  the  anarchy  that  would 
take  place.  I  see  it  being  fulfilled  in  our  own  land,  right  here,  and  it 
is  coming  more  and  more.  Were  it  not  for  what  there  is  here  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  I  would  despair ;  but 
the  promise  is  and  has  been — I  have  heard  it  repeated,  iterated  and  re- 
iterated hundreds  of  times — that  there  would  be  a  people  here  who 
would  stand  for  law  and  order,  who  would  maintain  it,  and  constitu- 
tional rights  would  be  observed  although  the  Constitution  would  be 
torn  to  shreds  and  tatters,  as  we  see  it  being  torn  around  us  in  these 
very  days,  these  anxious,  terrible  days  that  are  upon  us ;  but  here  it 
would  be  safe.  This  is  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  this  is 
the  mission  of  "Mormonism,"  to  be  saviors  upon  Mount  Zion,  to  save 
that  which  is  good  of  the  earth. 

I  passed  through  Omaha  the  other  day,  just  a  day  after  the  ter- 
rible occurrences  that  had  transpired  there,  where  the  mayor  of  the 
city,  who  was  sworn  to  do  his  duty,  tried  manfully  to  do  it.  They 
hung  him  by  the  neck  until  he  was  pratically  dead.  One  of  the  police- 
men climbed  the  pole  and  cut  the  rope  just  in  time,  so  that  he  was 
resuscitated,  but  he  was  unconscious  and  gone  so  far  as  he  was  con- 
cerned. But,  thank  God,  he  is  alive.  This  man  sworn  to  do  his  duty, 
trying  I  believe  to  do  his  duty,  and  yet  the  spirit  of  anarchy  and  riot 
and  mob  rule  would  hang  that  man,  and  did  hang  him,  and  burned 
others,  burned  the  jail,  burned  the  courthouse;  and,  as  you  know, 
troops  were  called  in.  I  need  not  dwell  on  it  all.  Well,  such  occur- 
rences go  on,  and  we  pass  them  by,  seemingly,  as  the  idle  wind,  and 
heed  them  not,  but  they  are  here.  Only  the  other  week,  in  Los 
Angeles,  a  few  platform  men  of  the  street  railroad  could  not  get  the 
settlement  that  they  wanted,  so  they  went  on  strike.  Out  of  sympathy 
for  them,  the  General  Electrical  Company  employees  down  there,  went 
out  on  what  they  call  a  sympathetic  strike,  and  then  all  the  railroad 
employees  operating  trains  into  the  city  of  Los  Angeles  went  out  on 
a  sympathetic  strike  also  and  tied  up  every  industry  in  the  city,  even 
tied  up  hundreds  of  people  here  and  at  other  points  along  the  line, 
who  were  thus  inconvenienced  and  punished  simply  because  the  rail- 
road employees  were  in  sympathy  with  the  few  platform  streetcar 
men  in  Los  Angeles.  A  sympathetic  strike  is  little  less  than  anarchy. 
These  railroad  men  and  Pacific  Electric  men  had  no  grievance  against 
their  companies,  neither  as  to  wages,  hours  of  work,  conditions  of 
work  or  anything  else;  they  had  no  grievance  at  all,  but  merely  out 
of  sympathy  for  somebody  else  they  tied  up  the  whole  business  of 
hundreds  of  communities  and  for  what?  For  mere  sentiment.  This 
is  one  of  the  worst  of  the  signs  of  the  times. 

Now  I  must  be  brief;  my  time  is  nearly  up.  I  want  to  say  that 
T  cannot,  for  one,  join  any  association  or  lodge  or  union  which  di- 


214 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


vides  my  allegiance  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
To  serve  the  Lord  acceptably,  my  allegiance  to  him  must  be  undi- 
vided. My  purpose  must  be  single.  If  thine  eye  be  single  thy  whole 
body  shall  be  filled  with  light.  Now  if  I  am  obligated  by  oath  or 
covenant  of  any  kind  to  some  other  organization  I  have  of  necessity 
a  divided  allegiance.  This  should  not  be.  My  allegiance  to  the 
Church  comprises  and  includes  everything  that  the  civil  government 
requires  and  a  great  deal  more.  My  allegiance  to  the  Church  causes 
me  not  to  hate  my  brother;  my  allegiance  to  the  Church  makes 
me  an  infinitely  better  citizen,  as  citizenship  goes  in  the  world,  than 
if  I  were  not  connected  with  the  Church.  Now  I  must  not  have  a 
divided  allegiance.   The  Kingdom  of  God  first — stand  by  it! 

The  prediction  has  been,  my  brethren,  that  civilization  shall  not 
fail ;  the  Constitution  of  our  country  shall  not  altogether  fail.  It  is  not 
all  going  up  in  wreck,  for  here,  and  I  believe  here  only,  will  peace 
and  prosperity  and  the  maintaining  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  and  the  securing  of  the  liberties  of  the  people,  transpire;  here 
through  the  medium  of  this  Church,  and  I  do  not  see  much  hope 
anywhere  else.  God  bless  you ;  God  bless  the  men  who  stand  at  the 
head ;  I  am  with  them ;  I  am  for  them ;  I  uphold  them ;  I  pray  for 
them.  As  I  said  before,  there  is  not  anything  that  I  will  not  try  to 
do  in  the  interest  of  this  work,  if  they  ask  me  to  do  it,  and  I  will  try 
to  do  a  great  many  things  they  do  not  have  to  ask  me  to  do.  God 
bless  us;  God  bless  this  people;  the  Lord  help  Zion  and  direct  us  in 
these  terrible  times  that  are  upon  us,  the  terribleness  of  which  will 
increase  and  not  decrease  until  Zion  is  established  and  the  work  of 
the  Lord  accomplished,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  officers  of  the  auxilliary 
organizations  of  the  Church  who  were  voted  upon  and  unanimously 
sustained  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles.   Rudger  Clawson,  as  Acting  President  of  the  Council. 
As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles: 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F. 
Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


215 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards, 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding-  Patriarch. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles 
and  Presiding  Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

The  First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding  Bishop  with  David  A.  Smith 
and  John  Wells  as  his  First  and  Second  Counselors. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  body  of  religious 
worshipers  known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  Historian  and  General  Church  Re- 
corder, with  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  August  William  Lund,  Assistant  Historians. 

The  General  Church  Auditing  Committee:  William  W.  Riter, 
Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John  C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft,  Peter  G.  John- 
ston. 

Members  of  the  General  Church  Board  of  Education:  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Willard  Young, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  David 
O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Arthur  Winter, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Commissioners  of  Education:  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Adam  S.  Bennion,  Superintendent. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Assistant  Conductor;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organist;  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball, and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organists;  George  C.  Smith, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.    And  all  the  members  of  the  choir. 

AUXILLIARY  ORGANIZATIONS. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Relief  Society. — Officers:  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  President;  Clar- 
issa S.  Williams,  First  Counselor;  Julina  L.  Smith,  Second  Coun- 
selor; Amy  B.  Lyman,  Secretary;  Susa  Y.  Gates,  Corresponding 
Secretary;  Emma  A.  Empey,  Treasurer. 

Members  of  Board :  Sarah  Jenne  Cannon,  Romania  B.  Penrose,  • 
Emily  S.  Richards,  Julia  P.  M.  Farnsworth,  Phebe  Y.  Beattie,  Ida 
S.  Dusenberry,  Carrie  S.  Thomas,  Elizabeth  S.  Wilcox,  Rebecca  N. 
Nibley,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune,  Edna  May  Davis,  Sarah  M.  McLelland, 
Elizabeth  Crismon,  Jeanette  A.  Hyde,  Sarah  Eddington,  Lillian  Cam- 
eron, Donnette  S.  Kesler. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Sunday  Schools. — Officers:    David  O.  McKay,  Superintendent; 


216 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Stephen  L.  Richards,  First  Assistant;  George  D.  Pyper,  Second  As- 
sistant ;  Laurence  W.  Richards,  Secretary ;  John  F.  Bennett,  Treasurer. 

Members  of  Board:  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Seymour  B.Young,  An- 
drew Kimball,  John  M.  Mills,  George  M.  Cannon,  James  E.  Talmage, 
Horace  H.  Cummings,  Josiah  Burrows,  William  A.  Morton,  Harold 

G.  Reynolds,  Charles  B.  Felt,  George  H.  Wallace,  Nathan  T.  Porter, 
Howard  R.  Driggs,  Milton  Bennion,  Horace  S.  Ensign,  Henry  H. 
Rolapp,  Edwin  G.  Woolley,  Jr.,  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  Charles  H.  Hart, 
Joseph  Ballantyne,  J.  Leo  Fairbanks,  J.  W.  Walker,  Ephraim  G. 
Gowans,  E.  Conway  Ashton,  Adam  S.  Bennion,  Edward  P.  Kimball, 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  George  N.  Child,  Frank  K.  Seegmiller,  Charles  J. 
Ross. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association. — Officers:  An- 
thony W.  Ivins,  General  Superintendent;  B.  H.  Roberts,  First  As- 
sistant; Richard  R.  Lyman,  Second  Assistant;  Moroni  Snow,  Gen- 
eral Secretary. 

Members  of  Board :   J.  Golden  Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells,  George 

H.  Brimhall,  Edward  H.  Anderson,  Thomas  Hull,  Willard  Done, 
Le  Roi  C.  $now,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Brigham  F.  Grant,  Lewis  T.  Cannon,  Benjamin  Goddard, 
George  Albert  Smith,  Thomas  A.  Clawson,  Lyman  R.  Martineau, 
Charles  H.  Hart,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  James  H.  Anderson,  Oscar  A. 
Kirkham,  George  F.  Richards,  Nephi  Anderson,  John  H.  Taylor, 
James  E.  Talmage,  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  Henry  C.  Lund,  George  J. 
Cannon,  Nicholas  G.  Morgan,  Claude  Richards,  John  F.  Bowman, 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Roscoe  W.  Eardley,  Preston  D.  Richards,  Os- 
borne J.  P.  Widtsoe,  Brigham  S.  Young,  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Ernest  P. 
Horsley,  Preston  Nibley,  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION. 

Young    Ladies'    Mutual    Improvement    Association. — Officers: 
Martha  H.  Tingey,  President;  Ruth  May  .Fox,  First  Counselor;  May 
T.   Nystrom,  Second   Counselor;   Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Secretary; 
,  Margaret  Summerhays,  Chorister. 

Members  of  the  Board :  Honorary  Member,  Maria  Y.  Doug- 
all;  Adella  W.  Eardley,  Agnes  Campbell,  Ann  M.  Cannon,  May  Booth 
Talmage,  Emma  Goddard,  Rose  W.  Bennett,  Alice  K.  Smith,  Julia 
M.  Brixen,  Augusta  W.  Grant,  Emily  Caldwell  Adams,  Mary  E.  Con- 
nelly, Elen  Wallace,  Lucy  W.  Smith,  Jane  B.  Anderson,  Edith  R. 
Lovsey,  Laura  Bennion  Dimond,  Rachel  Grant  Taylor,  Sarah  Rich- 
ards Cannon,  Lucy  M.  S.  Carter,  Charlotte  Stewart,  Lucy  Grant 
Cannon,  Emily  Hillam  Higgs,  Martha  G.  Smith,  Catherine  Folsom. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


217 


GENERAL  BOARD  OF  PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION. 

Primary  Association. — Officers:  Louie  B.  Felt,  President;  May 
Anderson,  First  Counselor ;  Clara  W.  Beebe,  Second  Counselor ;  Genet 
Bingham  Dee,  Secretary  and  Treasurer;  Matilda  W.  Cahoon,  Chor- 
ister; Jane  Romney  Crawford,  Organist;  Physical  Directors:  Ann 
Nebeker,  Edna  Harker  Thomas. 

Honorary  Members  of  Board:  Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Josephine  R. 
West,  Aurelia  S.  Rogers. 

Members  of  Board :  Eliza  S.  Bennion,  Edith  H.  Lambert,  Ella 
S.  Capener,  Georgina  F.  Richards,  Vilate  S.  Chambers,  Helen  Davis, 
Marion  B.  Kerr,  Nellie  A.  Talmage,  Cordia  H.  Smith,  Zina  Y.  Card, 
Sadie  Grant  Pack. 

Advisors  to  the  Association:  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIGION  CLASS. 

Religion  Class. — Officers:  Rudger  Clawson,  Superintendent; 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  First  Assistant;  William  A.  Morton,  Second 
Assistant  and  Secretary. 

Members  of  Board:  Horace  H.  Cummings,  Rulon  S.  Wells, 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  John  Henry  Evans,  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  George 
Albert  Smith,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  James  E.  King,  George  F.  Rich- 
ards, George  H.  Brimhall,  P.  Joseph  Jensen,  Willard  Young,  N. 
Andrew  Jensen,  Guy  C.  Wilson,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  John  Wells, 
Newell  K.  Young. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  clerk  of  the  general  conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  would  have  been  very  much  pleased,  indeed,  to  have  heard 
from  one  or  two  more,  but  time  will  not  permit.  I  wish  to  say  that 
each  and  all  of  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  without  any  reservations  whatever,  have  my 
unbounded  love  and  confidence.  They  have  sustained  me  with  their 
faith  and  their  prayers,  and  have  fulfilled  every  request  that  I  have 
made  of  them.  I  wish  to  say  that  there  is  not  a  stake  president  in 
all  the  Church  who  does  not  have  my  love  and  confidence.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  Church  have  sustained  me  beyond 
anything  that  I  could  have  expected  or  believed  possible.  I  pray 
God  to  sanctify  all  that  has  been  said  and  done  in  this  conference  to 
the  good  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  pray  for  the  welfare  of  man- 
kind, at  home  and  abroad.  I  bear  to  you  my  testimony  that  God  has 
spoken  again  from  the  heavens,  that  we-  have  the  gospel  of  life  and 
salvation ;  and  I  pray  God  to  help  us  to  live  it,  all  of  which  I  ask,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


218  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Patriarch  Hyrum  C.  Jex. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Professor  John  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments,  in- 
terludes, etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  taken  in  the 
Tabernacle,  by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  R.  W.  Gal- 
lagher and  Clyde  Rasmussen ;  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  by  Elder  Fred- 
erick E.  Barker  and  Fred  G.  Barker ;  in  Barratt  Hall,  by  'Clarence 
Cramer,  and  at  the  open-air  meeting  near  the  Bureau  of  Information 
by  Clyde  Rasmussen. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  Conference. 


AVE  you  ever  stopped  to  think  how  much  time 
we  spend  in  planning  what  we  shall  put  on 
and  what  we  shall  put  in  our  children's  bodies 
and  how  little  in  planning  what  we  shall  put 
in  their  minds?  They  go  to  school,  to  be  sure, 
but  that  is  for  only  five  hours  a  day  for  approximately  185 
days  a  year.  What  of  the  years  before  they  begin  to  go  to 
school,  what  of  the  hours  and  days  each  year  in  which  they 
are  not  under  instruction?  Have  we  any  deliberate  plans 
to  care  for  the  mind's  growth  as  we  care  for  the  body's? 

It  is  just  as  important  that  children  shall  read  good 
books  as  it  is  that  they  shall  learn  to  read  at  all.  It  would 
be  hard  to  find  any  one  who  would  declare  that  it  is  un- 
necessary for  children  to  learn  to  read.  Yet  reading  in  it- 
self is  not  the  end  we  seek,  but  only  a  means  to  the  end. 
The  goal  of  all  education  is  the  enrichment  of  life,  and  a 
child's  reading  carefully  guided  will  deepen  and  strengthen 
his  future  ability  to  make  the  most  of  himself  and  his  op- 
portunities. 

To  really  love  books  so  that  they  may  be  woven  into 
the  warp  and  woof  of  his  life  a  child  should  have  his  own 
individual  library,  which  grows  year  by  year  with  his 
growth,  yet  which  contains  friends  to  whom  he  will  return 
time  and  time  again,  secure  in  the  knowledge  of  a  happy 
companionship,  full  of  pleasant  associations.  A  large  num- 
ber of  books  is  not  essential  to  have,  but  a  few  should  be 
added  each  year  and  the  standard  of  choice  should  be  kept 
high. — Seattle  Public  Library  Bulletin. 

Let  us  help  you  select  books  for  your  children. 

SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION  BOOK  STORE 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

6  Main  Street 


Read  the  Church  Works 

Every  Latter-day  Saint  family  should  possess  a  com- 
plete set  of  the  Church  Works.  They  are  full  of  inspired 
teachings  and  bring  an  influence  in  the  home  that  is  whole- 
some and  uplifting.  Familiarity  with  these  inspired  books 
means  intelligent  membership  and  a  spiritual  equipment 
for  big,  wholesome  service. 

Let  your  children  make  the  acquaintance  of  these  sa- 
cred volumes  by  frequent  contact  with  them  in  the  home. 
There  is  no  more  impressive  and  effective  way  to  impress 
them  with  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants — A  wonderful  book  of 
modern  revelations.  The  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  people 
of  this  dispensation.  No  home  library  is  complete  with- 
out it. 

The  Book  of  Mormon — A  history  unique.  A  gripping 
story  that  has  the  distinction  of  being  true.  A  compendium 
of  divine  truth. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price — A  volume  of  pleasant  and 
profitable  reading.    It's  all  that  its  title  implies. 

The  History  of  the  Church — By  any  one  of  three  or 
four  trenchant  writers.  A  history  full  of  romance,  heroism 
and  achievement. 

You  need  the  Church  Works  in  your  home.  We  can 
supply  you  with  any  or  all  of  them,  in  a  variety  of  bind- 
ings, and  prices  to  meet  your  convenience. 

SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION  BOOK  STORE 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

6  Main  Street 


